Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


©osmopoHs 

AN  INTERNATIONAL  MONTHLY  REVIEW 


Edited  by 

F.     ORTMANS 


Volume  IX. 


JANUARY  —  FEBRUARY  —  MARCH 


1898. 


• .       • 


Xon^on : 

T.  FISHKR  UN  WIN 

Hew  Ifforft : 

INTERNATIONAL  NEWS  COMPANY 

1898 


4  f  >o.^M!  ^> 


•  •  • 


Table  of  Contents.— Vol.  IX. 


JANUARY. 

Jrilni  Delavnv     .     .' Hkxky  Jamfs  .     .     .     , 

Socialism  a..d  the  Future  of  K.ik-  1  ,.,_  j^j_  Hvn„man  .     .     . 


land 
Lcs  Deux  Parties  . 


/ 


I  Paul  kt  Victor  MAkorK 

\        KITTE 

Le  Socialisme  fran^ais    ....     Jeax  jArKES 


Due  de   Richelieu  :    Lettres  sur  ) 


r  Italic 


;   R.    DE  CiSTEKXES  . 


Warten 

'*  Zukunftsstaatliches  " 
Briefe  aus  Rom.     I.   . 


Adalbert  Meixhardt  . 

W.    LlEBKXECHT   .      .      . 

P.  D.  Fischer.    .    .    . 


I 


-*  > 


95 
107 


191 
203 

-'37 


CHRONICLES. 


Literature 


Theatre 


( 


Foreign  Affairs 


Andrew  Laxg  .  . 
Emile  Faguet  .  . 
Antox  Bettelheim 

A.  B.  Walkley  .  ^ 
Jules  LemaItre  .     . 

(de  rAcaclemie  Irancaisc) 

Paul  Schlexther.     .    . 

Hexrv  Xormax  .  .  .  . 
Fraxcis  de  Pressexse  . 
**  Igxotus  " 


Literary  nullelin     . 


English 
French 
German 


59 

25'' 

70 
167 

271 

176 


FEBRUARY. 


John  Delavoy  (Conclusion)  .     .     .     Hexry  James  . 
The     Theoretical     Foundations  i 

of     Socialism,    a    Reply   to    W.  H.  Mallock 

Mr.  Hvndman ' 


The  Maker  of  Lenses.     I. 
Unpublished  Letters  to  (lustave 

d'Eichthal,  Edited    by   Eu 

gene  d'Eichthal 
Alphonse  Daudet       .     . 


Tom 

Les  Idees  et  les  Mceurs 
I^s  Bouquets  de  TAlliance 
La  Litterature  bretonne. 
Ibsen  et  (leorge  Sancl    . 


I.  Zaxgwill 


JoHX  Stuart  Mill  . 

Edmuxd  Gosse    .    . 

Jacques  Xormaxd  . 
Edguard  Rod  .  .  . 
Xapoleox  Ney  .  . 
Axatole  Le  Braz. 
Victor  I^asch  .     .     . 


•  3»7 

•  333 

•  353 
.  3^« 

.  38-' 

•  415 

•  4-^9 

•  -440 

.  450 
.  4^16 


_.,-,,  .  PAGE 

Siindenfall,     eine     Alt  -  Wiener  1  ^^  c. 

Geschichte (  Ferdinand  vox  Saar  .    .511 

/aw     Kritik    de     sozialistischen  1  *  ,,, 

Zukiinftsstaats ^  Adolph  Wagner.     .    .     .543 

Briefe  aiis  Rom.     II R  D.  Fischer 557 

Was  mir  Alphone  Duudet  ist       .     Kriedricii  'Spikiji ackn     .  57(1 
Napoleon  I.  imd  Prcussen.    .     I.     Max  Lenz *::8o 

CHRONICLES. 

(  Henry  Norman  ....  395 

Foreign  Affairs j  Francis  de  Presskxsk  .     .  493 

( **  Ignotus  " 596 

j  English 409 

Literary    Bulletin <  French     . 505 

(  German 611 

MARCH. 

Out  of  the  Cage F.  W.  Robinson  .    .     .    .611 

Odes    in    Contribution     to     the  ] 

Song    of    French    History :    George  Meredith  .    .    .  625 

The  Revolution ) 

Notes    on    Flogel's    History    of  j 

Comic  Literature,  edited  by  >  S.  T.  Coleridge.    .    .    .  635 

H.  Buxton  Forman.     .     .     .  ) 

Tfie      Literary      Movement     in  )  f^.,,,  r»    o^. «^.,  ^ 

Germany |  Johx  G.  Robkrtson     .     .649 

Naples Arthur  Symons  ....  666 

The  Maker  of  Lenses  (0>m7//5/(?w)     I.  Zangwill 676 

La  Ressemblance Jean  Rameau 709 

r      ri   ^,*-^«c^^:,i  1  PAUL   DescHANEL.      .      .      .   720 

La  Question  Sociale \  ,_^.     t>  -   ^  i  ou     u    a    r^-    .    s 

^  (  (V^ice-Pres.de  la  Chambrcdes  Deputes) 

Lcs    Cahiers     clc     Montauban,  K    ^    j^    j 

publics  par  Hemy  Lapauze  .  )  ^  '^' 

La    Fatriotisme   corse   du   Lieu- 1 

tenant  Napoleon  Bonaparte  >  Arthur  Chuquet    .     .     .  768 

(1782-1789).     I ) 

Lettres      Inedites      i      Gustave  ] 

d'Eichthal,      publiees      par  ^  John  Stuart  Mill  .    .    .  780 

Eugene  d'Eichthal  .     .     .     .  j 

Tm  Neuen  Leben W.  Dietrich 809 

/,.,•    Kritik    des    sozialistischen  j  ^  Wagner.    .    .    .841 

Zukunftsstaats  {Sauuss)     .     .  )  ^ 

Napoleon  I.  unci  Prcussen (wSt7////ss)     Max  Lenz 859 

'*  Zukunftsstaatliches  '*  :  Zwei        )  Rudolph  Sohm    .    .     .  (    g 
offene  Schreiben J  Eduard  Bernstein  .     .  )      '^ 

CHRONICLES. 

(  Henry  Norman  ....  690 

Forei^iJ  Affairs -  Francis  de  Pressensk     .   791 

(  '*  Ignotus  " 883 

j  English 704 

Literary  liiilktin -^  French 804 

(  German  ,..,,,.  90Q 


6osmopolis 

An  International  Review. 


No.  XXV.— January,  1898. 


JOHN    DELAVOY. 


I. 

The  friend  who  kindly  took  me  to  the  first  night  of  poor 
Winton's  first — which  was  also  poor  Winton's  last :  it  was 
removed  as  fast  as,  at  an  unlucky  dinner,  a  dish  of  too 
perceptible  a  presence — also  obligingly  pointed  out  to  me  the 
notabilities  in  the  house.  So  it  was  that  we  came  round,  just 
opposite,  to  a  young  lady  in  the  front  row  of  the  balcony — 
a  young  lady  in  mourning  so  marked  that  I  rather  wondered 
to  see  her  at  a  place  of  pleasure.  I  dare  say  my  surprise  w^as 
partly  produced  by  my  thinking  her  face,  as  I  made  it  out  at 
the  distance,  refined  enough  to  aid  a  little  the  contradiction. 
I  remember  at  all  events  dropping  a  word  about  the  manners 
and  morals  of  London — a  word  to  the  effect  that,  for  the 
most  part,  elsewhere,  people  so  bereaved  as  to  be  so  becraped 
were  bereaved  enough  to  stay  at  home.  We  recognised  of 
course,  however,  during  the  wait,  that  nobody  ever  did  stay 
at  home  ;  and,  as  my  companion  proved  vague  about  my 
young  lady,  who  was  yet  somehow  more  interesting  than  any 
other  as  directly  in  range,  we  took  refuge  in  the  several  theories 
that  might  explain  her  behaviour.  One  of  these  was  that 
she  had  a  sentiment  for  Winton  which  could  override  super- 
stitions ;  another  was  that  her  scruples  had  been  mastered  by 
an  influence  discernible  on  the  spot.  This  was  nothing  less 
than  the  spell  of  a  gentleman  beside  her,  whom  I  had  at  first 
mentally  disconnected  from  her  on  account  of  some  visibility 

*  Copyright,  1898,  in  the  United  States  ol  America,  by  Henry  James. 
VOL.   IX.— NO.   XXV.  1 


1  CUSiMbt^OLIi>. 

of  diflFerence.  He. was.  not,  as  it  were,  quite  good  enough  to 
have  come  \vii1x.  hjti)^  J  and  yet  he  was  strikingly  handsome, 
whereas,  rfief*  4)n  the  contrary,  would  in  all  likelihood  have 
been  [>i;(mbunced  discoverably  plain.  That  was  what,  doubt- 
^  .•'.fessyJiad  led  me  to  put  a  question  about  her ;  the  fact  of  her 
•••'•. •••having  the  kind  of  distinction  that  is  quite  independent  of 
beauty.  Her  friend,  on  the  other  hand,  whose  clustering 
curls  were  fair,  whose  moustache  and  whose  fixed  monocular 
glass  particularly,  if  indescribably,  matched  them,  and  whose 
expanse  of  white  shirt  and  waistcoat  had  the  air  of  carrying 
out  and  balancing  the  scheme  of  his  large  white  forehead — 
her  friend  had  the  kind  of  beauty  that  is  quite  independent  of 
distinction.  That  he  was  her  friend — and  very  much — was 
clear  from  his  easy  imagination  of  all  her  curiosities.  He 
began  to  show  her  the  company,  and  to  do  much  better  in 
this  line  than  my  own  companion  did  for  me,  inasmuch  as  he 
appeared  even  to  know  whom  we  ourselves  were.  That  gave 
a  propriety  to  my  finding,  on  the  return  from  a  dip  into  the 
lobby  in  the  first  entr'acte,  that  the  lady  beside  me  was  at 
last  prepared  to  identify  him.  1,  for  my  part,  knew  too  few 
people  to  have  picked  up  anything.  She  mentioned  a  friend 
who  had  edged  in  to  speak  to  her  and  who  had  named  the 
gentleman  opposite  as  Lord  Yarracome. 

Somehow  I  questioned  the  news.  '*  it  sounds  like  the  sort 
of  thing  that's  too  good  to  be  true." 

"  Too  good  ?  " 

"  I  mean  he's  too  much  like  it." 

"  Like  what  ?     Like  a  lord  ? 

"  Well,  like  the  name,  which  is  expressive,  and — yes — even 
like  the  dignity.  Isn't  that  just  what  lords  are  usually  not  ?" 
I  didn't,  however,  pause  for  a  reply,  but  inquired  further  if  his 
lordship's  companion  might  be  regarded  as  his  wife. 

"  Dear,  no.     She's  Miss  Delavoy." 

1  forget  how  my  friend  had  gathered  this — not  from  the 
informant  who  had  just  been  with  her  ;  but  on  the  spot  I 
accepted  it,  and  the  young  lady  became  vividly  interesting. 
"  The  daughter  of  the  great  man  ?  " 

"  What  great  man  ?  " 

**  Why,  the   wonderful  writer,  the  immense   novelist  :   the 


JOHN   DELAVOV.  3 

one  who  died  hist  year."     My  friend  gave  me  a  look  that  led 
me  to  add  :  "  Did  you  never  hear  of  him  ?  "  and,  though  she 
professed  inadvertence,  I  could  see  her  to  be  really  so  vague 
that — perhaps  a  trifle  too  sharply — I  afterwards  had  the  matter 
out  with  her.     Her  immediate  refuge  was  in  the  question  of 
Miss  Delavoy's  mourning.     It  was  for  him,  then,  her  illus- 
trious father  ;  though  that  only  deepened  the  oddity  of  her 
coming  so  soon  to  the  theatre,  and  coming  with  a  lord.     My 
companion   spoke   as   if   the  lord   made  it  worse,  and,  after 
watching  the  pair  a  moment  with  her  glass,  observed  that  it 
was  easy  to  see  he  could  do  anything  he  liked  with  his  young 
lady.     I  permitted  her,  I  confess,  but  little  benefit  from  this 
diversion,  insisting  on  giving  it  to  her  plainly  that   I  didn't 
know   what  we  were  coming  to  and  that  there   was  a   kind 
of  stupidity  in  the  air  to  which  perhaps  more  almost  than 
anything    else    the    general    blankness    on    the    subject    of 
Delavoy's  genius  testified.     I  even  let  her  know,  1  am  afraid, 
how  scant,  for  a  supposedly  clever^  woman,   I    thought  the 
grace  of  being  so  tainted  ;  and  I  may  as  well  mention  outright 
that,  as  I  have  had  time  to  see,  we  were  not  again  to  be  just 
the  same  allies  as  before  my  explosion.     This  was  a  brief,  thin 
flare,  but   it  expressed  a  feeling,  and  the  feeling  led  me  to 
concern  myself  for  the  rest  of  the  evening,  perhaps  a  trifle  too 
markedly,  with  Lord  Yarracome's  victim.     She  was  the  image 
of  a  nearer  approach,  of  a  personal  view  :  I  mean  in  respect 
to  my  great  artist,  on  whose  consistent  aloofness  from  the 
crowd    I  needn't  touch,  any  more  than  on   his  patience  in 
going  his  way  and  attending  to  his  work,  the  most  unadver- 
tised,  unreported,  uninterviewed,  unphotographed,  uncriticised 
of  all  originals.     Was  he  not  the  man  of  the  time  about  whose 
•  private  life  we  delightfully  knew  least  ?     The  young  lady  in 
the  balcony,  with  the  stamp  of  her  close  relation  to  him  in 
her  very  dress,  was  a  sudden  opening  into  that   region.     1 
borrowed  my  companion's  glass ;    I   treated   myself,  in   this 
direction — yes,    I   was   momentarily   gross — to   an   excursion 
of  some   minutes.     1   came   back  from  it  with  the  sense  of 
something  gained  ;  I  felt  as  if  I  had  been  studying  Delavoy's 
own  face,  no  portrait  of  which  I   had  ever  met.     The  result  of 
it  all,   I  easily  recognised,  would    be  to  add   greatly  to  my 


4  COSMOPOLIS. 

impatience  for  the  finished  book  he  had  left  behind,  which 
had  not  yet  seen  the  light,  which  was  announced  for  a  near 
date,  and  as  to  which  rumour — I  mean  of  course  only  in  the 
particular  warm  air  in  which  it  lived  at  all — had  already  been 
sharp.  I  went  out  after  the  second  act  to  make  room  for 
another  visitor — they  buzzed  all  over  the  place — and  when  i 
rejoined  my  friend  she  was  primed  with  rectifications. 

"  He  isn't  Lord  Yarracome  at  all.     He's  only  Mr.  Bullen." 

I  fairly  jumped  ;  I  see,  as  I  now  think,  that  it  was  as  if  I  had 
read  the  future  in  a  flash  of  lightning.  "  Only —  ?  The  mighty 
editor  ?  " 

"  Yes,  of  the  celebrated  Cynosure**  My  interlocutress  was 
determined  this  time  not  to  be  at  fault.  "  He's  always  at  first 
nights." 

"  What  a  chance  for  me,  then,"  I  replied',  '*  to  judge  of  my 
particular  fate  ! " 

"  Does  that  depend  on  Mr.  Bullen  ? "  she  inquired  ;  on 
which  I  again  borrowec^  her  glass  and  went  deeper  into  the 
subject. 

"  Well,  my  literary  fortune  does.  I  sent  him  a  fortnight  ago 
the  best  thing  I've  ever  done.  I've  not  as  yet  had  a  sign  from 
him,  but  I  can  perhaps  make  out  in  his  face,  in  the  light  of  his 
type  and  expression,  some  little  portent  or  promise."  I  did 
my  best,  but  when  after  a  minute  my  companion  asked  what  I 
discovered  1  was  obliged  to  answer  "  Nothing  ! "  The  next 
moment  I  added  :  "  He  won't  take  it." 

"  Oh,  I  hope  so  !  " 

"  That's  just  what  I've  been  doing."  I  gave  back  the  glass. 
''  Such  a  face  is  an  abyss." 

"  Don't  you  think  it  handsome  ?  " 

"Glorious.  Gorgeous.  Immense.  Oh,  I'm  lost!  What 
does  Miss  Delavoy  think  of  it  ?  "  I  then  articulated. 

"  Can't  you  see  ?  "  My  companion  used  her  glass.  "  She's 
under  the  charm — she  has  succumbed.  How  else  can  he  have 
dragged  her  here  in  her  state  ?  "  I  wondered  much,  and  indeed 
her  state  seemed  happy  enough,  though  somehow,  at  the  same 
time,  the  pair  struck  me  as  not  in  the  least  matching.  It  was 
only  for  half  a  minute  that  my  friend  made  them  do  so  by 
vjoing  on  :  "  It's    perfectly  evident.     She's  not  a  daughter,  1 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  5 

should  have  told  you,  by  the  way — she's  only  a  sister.  They've 
struck  up  an  intimacy  in  the  glow  of  his  having  engaged  to 
publish  from  month  to  month  the  wonderful  book  that,  as  I 
understand  you,  her  brother  has  left  behind." 

That  was  plausible,  but  it  didn't  bear  another  look. 
"  Never  ! "  1  at  last  returned.  "  Daughter  or  sister,  that  fellow 
won't  touch  him." 

"  Why  in  the  world—  ?  " 

"  Well,  for  the  same  reason  that,  as  you'll  see,  he  won't  touch 
me.  It's  wretched,  but  we're  too  good  for  him."  My  expla- 
nation did  as  well  as  another,  though  it  had  the  drawback  of 
leaving  me  to  find  another  for  Miss  Delavoy's  enslavement.  I 
was  not  to  find  it  that  evening,  for  as  poor  Winton's  play  went 
on  we  had  other  problems  to  meet,  and  at  the  end  our  objects 
of  interest  were  lost  to  sight  in  the  general  blinding  blizzard. 
The  affair  was  a  bitter  "  frost,"  and  if  we  were  all  in  our  places 
to  the  last  everything  else  had  disappeared.  When  I  got  home 
it  was  to  be  met  by  a  note  from  Mr.  Bullen  accepting  my 
article  almost  with  enthusiasm,  and  it  is  a  proof  of  the  rapidity 
of  my  fond  revulsion  that  before  I  went  to  sleep,  which  was  not 
till  ever  so  late,  I  had  excitedly  embraced  the  prospect  of  letting 
him  have,  on  the  occasion  of  Delavoy's  new  thing,  my  peculiar 
view  of  the  great  man.  I  must  add  that  I  was  not  a  little 
ashamed  to  feel  1  had  made  a  fortune  the  very  night  Winton 

had  lost  one. 

II. 

Mr.  Bullen  proved  really  in  the  event  most  kind,  though  his 
appeal,  which  promised  to  become  frequent,  was  for  two  or 
three  quite  different  things  before  it  came  round  to  my  peculiar 
view  of  Delavoy.  It  in  fact  never  addressed  itself  at  all  to 
that  altar,  and  we  met  on  the  question  only  when,  the 
posthumous  volume  having  come  out,  I  had  found  myself 
wound  up  enough  to  risk  indiscretions.  By  this  time  I  had 
twice  been  with  him  and  had  had  three  or  four  of  his  notes. 
They  were  the  barest  bones,  but  they  phrased,  in  a  manner, 
a  connection.  This  was  not  a  triumph,  however,  to  bring  me 
so  near  to  him  as  to  judge  of  the  origin  and  nature  of  his 
relations  with  Miss  Delavoy.  That  his  magazine  would,  after 
all,  publish  no  specimens  was  proved  by  the  Hnal  appearance 


6  COSMOPOLIS. 

of  the  new  book  at  a  single  splendid  bound.  The  impression 
it  made  was  of  the  deepest — it  remains  the  author's  highest 
mark ;  but  1  heard,  in  spite  of  this,  of  no  emptying  of  table 
drawers  for  Mr.  Bullen's  benefit.  What  the  book  is  we  know 
still  better  to-day,  and  perhaps  even  Mr.  Bullen  does ;  but 
there  was  no  approach  at  the  time  to  a  general  rush,  and  I 
therefore  of  course  saw  that  if  he  was  thick  with  the  great 
man's  literary  legatee — as  I,  at  least,  supposed  her — it  was  on 
some  basis  independent  of  his  bringing  anything  out.  Never- 
less  he  quite  rose  to  the  idea  of  my  study,  as  I  called  it,  which 
I  put  before  him  in  a  brief  interview. 

"  You  ought  to  have  something.  That  thing  has  brought 
him  to  the  front  with  a  leap —  !  " 

"  The  front  ?    What  do  you  call  the  front  ?  " 

He  had  laughed  so  good-humouredly  that  I  could  do  the 
sjime.  "  Well,  the  front  is  where  you  and  I  are."  I  told  him 
my  paper  was  already  finished. 

'*  Ah  then,  you  must  write  it  again." 

''  Oh,  but  look  at  it  first—  !  " 

"  You  must  write  it  again,"  Mr.  Bullen  only  repeated. 
Before  I  left  him,  however,  he  had  explained  a  little.  "  You 
must  see  his  sister." 

''  I  shall  be  delighted  to  do  that." 

*'  She's  a  great  friend  of  mine,  and  my  having  something 
may  please  her — which,  though  my  first,  my  only  duty  is  to 
please  my  subscribers  and  shareholders,  is  a  thing  I  should 
rather  like  to  do.  I'll  take  from  you  something  of  the  kind 
you  mention,  but  only  if  she's  favourably  impressed  by  it." 

I  just  hesitated,  and  it  was  not  without  a  grain  of  hypocrisy 
that  I  artfully  replied  :  "  I  would  much  rather  you  were  !  " 

"  Well,  I  shall  be  if  she  is."  Mr.  Bullen  spoke  with  gravity. 
"  She  can  give  you  a  good  deal,  don't  you  know  ? — all  sorts  of 
leads  and  glimpses.  She  naturally  knows  more  about  him  than 
anyone.     Besides,  she's  charming  herself." 

To  dip  so  deep  could  only  be  an  enticement  ;  yet  1 
already  felt  so  saturated,  felt  my  cup  so  full,  that  I  almost 
wondered  what  was  left  to  me  to  learn,  almost  feared  to 
lose,  in  greater  waters,  my  feet  and  my  courage.  At  the  same 
time  I  welcomed  without  reserve  the  opportunity  my  patron 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  7 

offered,  making  as  my  one  condition  that  if  Miss  Delavoy 
assented  he  would  print  my  article  as  it  stood.  It  was 
arranged  that  he  should  tell  her  that  I  would,  with  her  leave, 
call  upon  her,  and  I  begged  him  to  let  her  know  in  advance 
that  I  was  prostrate  before  her  brother.  He  had  all  the  air  of 
thinking  that  he  should  have  put  us  in  a  relation  by  which 
The  Cynosure  would  largely  profit,  and  I  left  him  with  the 
peaceful  consciousness  that  if  I  had  baited  my  biggest  hook  he 
had  opened  his  widest  mouth.  I  wondered  a  little,  in  truth, 
how  he  could  care  enough  for  Delavoy  without  caring  more 
than  enough,  but  I  may  at  once  say  that  I  was,  in  respect  to 
Mr.  Bullen,  now  virtually  in  possession  of  my  point  of  view. 
This  had  revealed  to  me  an  intellectual  economy  of  the  rarest 
kind.  There  was  not  a  thing  in  the  world — with  a  single 
exception,  on  which  I  shall  presently  touch — that  he  valued  for 
itself,  and  not  a  scrap  he  knew  about  anything  save  whether  or 
no  it  would  do.  To  "  do,"  with  Mr.  Bullen,  was  to  do  for 
The  Cynosure.  The  wonder  was  that  he  could  know  that  of 
things  of  which  he  knew  nothing  else  whatever. 

There  are  a  hundred  reasons,  even  in  this  most  private 
record,  which,  from  a  turn  of  mind  so  unlike  Mr.  Bullen's,  I 
keep  exactly  for  a  love  of  the  fact  in  itself :  there  are  a 
hundred  confused  delicacies,  operating  however  late,  that  hold 
my  hand  from  any  motion  to  treat  the  question  of  the  effect 
produced  on  me  by  my  first  meeting  with  Miss  Delavoy.  I 
say  there  are  a  hundred,  but  it  would  better  express  my  sense 
perhaps  to  speak  of  them  all  in  the  singular.  Certain  it  is  that 
one  of  them  embraces  and  displaces  the  others.  It  was 
not  the  first  time,  and  I  dare  say  it  was  not  even  the  second, 
that  I  grew  sure  of  a  shyness  on  the  part  of  this  young  lady 
greater  than  any  exhibition  in  such  a  line  that  my  kindred 
constitution  had  ever  allowed  me  to  be  clear  about.  My  own 
diffidence,  I  may  say,  kept  me  in  the  dark  so  long  that  my 
perception  of  hers  had  to  be  retroactive — to  go  back  and  put 
together  and,  with  an  element  of  relief,  interpret  and  fill  out. 
It  failed,  inevitably,  to  operate  in  respect  to  a  person  in  whom 
the  infirmity  of  which  I  speak  had  none  of  the  awkwardness, 
the  tell-tale  anguish,  that  makes  it  in  general  either  pitiful  or 
droll.     It  was  too  deep,  too  still,  too  exquisite — it  was  perhaps 


«  COSMOPOLIS. 

even  too  proud.     I  must  content  myself,  however,  with  saying 
that  I  have  in  all  my  life  known  nothing  more  beautiful  than 
the   faint,  cool    morning   mist   of  confidence    less    and   less 
embarrassed    in    which    it     slowly    evaporated.      We    have 
made  the  thing  all  out  since,  and  we  understand  it  all  now. 
It  took  her   longer  than  I  measured   to  believe   that  a  man 
without    her    particular    knowledge    could    make    such    an 
approach  to  her   particular  love.      The  approach  was  made 
in    my    paper,    which    I    left    with    her    on    my    first    visit 
and  in   which,  on  my  second,  she   told  me  she  had  not  an 
alteration  to  suggest.     She  said  of  it  what  I  had  occasionally, 
to  an  artist,  heard  said,  or  said  myself,  of  a  likeness  happily 
caught :   that   to  touch    it   again   would   spoil  it,  that  it  had 
"come"  and  must  only  be  left.     It  may  be  imagined  that  after 
such   a  speech    I   was  willing  to  wait  for  anything ;  -unless 
indeed   it    be   suggested    that  there  could   be   then    nothing 
more  to  wait  for.    A  great  deal  more,  at  any  rate,  seemed  to 
arrive,  and  it  was  all  in  conversation  about  Delavoy  that  we 
ceased  to  be  hindered  and  hushed.     The  place  was  still  full  of 
him,  and  in  everything  there  that   spoke  to  me  I  heard  the 
sound  of  his  voice.     I  read  his  style  into  everything — I  read  it 
into   his    sister.      She    was    surrounded    by    his    relics,    his 
possessions,  his  books  ;    all  of  which  were  not  many,  for  he 
had   worked  without   material   reward  :    this   only,  however, 
made  each  more  charged,  somehow,  and  more  personal.     He 
had  been  her  only  devotion,  and  there  were  moments  when 
she  might  have  been  taken  for  the  guardian  of  a  temple  or  a 
tomb.    That  was  what  brought  me  nearer  than  I  had  got  even 
in  my  paper  ;  the  sense  that  it  was  he,  in  a  manner,  who  had 
made  her,  and  that  to  be  with  her  was  still -to  be  w-ith  himself. 
It  was  not  only  that   I   could  talk  to  him  so  ;  it  was  that  he 
listened  and  that  he  also  talked.     Little  by  little  and  touch  by 
touch  she  built  him  up  to  me  ;  and  then  it  was,  I  confess,  that 
I  felt,  in  comparison,  the  shrinkage  of  what  I  had  written.     It 
grew  faint  and  small — though  indeed  only  for  myself ;  it  had 
from  the  first,  for  the  witness   who  counted  so  much  more, 
a  merit  that  I  have  ever  since  reckoned  the  great  good  fortune 
of  my  life,  and  even,  I  will  go  so  far  as  to  say,  a  fine  case  of 
inspiration.     I  hasten  to  add  that  this  case  had  been  preceded 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  9 

by  a  still  finer.  Miss  Delavoy  had  made  of  her  brother  the 
year  before  his  death  a  portrait  in  pencil  that  was  precious 
for  two  rare  reasons.  It  was  the  only  representation  of  the 
sort  in  existence,  and  it  was  a  work  of  curious  distinction. 
Conventional  but  sincere,  highly  finished  and  smaller  than  life, 
it  had  a  quality  that,  in  any  collection,  would  have  caused  it 
to  be  scanned  for  some  signature  known  to  the  initiated.  It 
was  a  thing  of  passion,  but  it  was  also  a  thing  of  taste,  and 
as  soon  as  I  learned  that  our  hero,  sole  of  his  species,  had 
succeeded  in  never,  save  on  this  occasion,  sitting,  least  of  all  to 
a  photographer,  I  took  the  full  measure  of  what  the  studied 
strokes  of  a  pious  hand  would  some  day  represent  for 
generations  more  aware  of  John  Delavoy  than,  on  the  whole, 
his  own  had  been.  My  feeling  for  them  was  not  diminished, 
moreover,  by  learning  from  my  young  lady  that  Mr.  Bullen, 
who  had  given  them  some  attention,  had  signified  that,  in  the 
event  of  his  publishing  an  article,  he  would  like  a  reproduction 
of  the  drawing  to  accompany  it.  The  "  pictures "  in  The 
Cynosure  were  in  general  a  marked  chill  to  my  sympathy  :  I 
had  always  held  that,  like  good  wine,  honest  prose  needed,  as 
it  were,  no  bush.  I  took  them  as  a  sign  that  if  good  wine,  as 
we  know,  is  more  and  more  hard  to  meet,  the  other  commodity 
was  becoming  as  scarce.  The  bushes,  at  all  events,  in  The 
Cynosure,  quite  planted  out  the  text ;  but  my  objection  fell  in 
the  presence  of  Miss  Delavoy's  sketch,  which  already,  in  the 
forefront  of  my  study,  I  saw  as  a  flower  in  the  coat  of  a 
bridegroom. 

I  was  obliged  just  after  my  visit  to  leave  town  for  three 
weeks  and  was,  in  the  country,  surprised  at  their  elapsing 
without  bringing  me  a  proof  from  Mr.  Bullen.  I  finally  wrote 
to  ask  of  him  an  explanation  of  the  delay  ;  for  which  in  turn 
1  had  again  to  wait  so  long  that  before  I  heard  from  him  I 
received  a  letter  from  Miss  Delavoy,  who,  thanking  me  as  for 
a  good  office,  let  me  know  that  our  friend  had  asked  her  for 
the  portrait.  She  appeared  to  suppose  that  I  must  have  put 
in  with  him  some  word  for  it  that  availed  more  expertly  than 
what  had  passed  on  the  subject  between  themselves.  This 
gave  me  occasion,  on  my  return  to  town,  to  call  on  her  for 
the  purpose  of  explaining  how  little  as  yet,  unfortunately,  she 


lO  COSMOPOLIS. 

owed  me.     I  am  not  indeed  sure  that  it  didn't  quicken  my 
return.     1  knocked  at  her  door  with  rather  a  vivid  sense  that 
if  Mr.  BuUen  had  her  drawing  I  was  yet  still  without  my  proof. 
My  privation  was  the  next  moment  to  feel  a  sharper  pinch, 
for  on  entering  her  apartment  I  found  Mr.  BuUen  in  possession. 
Then   it  was  that   I  was  fairly  confronted  with  the  problem 
given   me  from  this  time  to  solve.     I  began  at  that  hour  to 
look  it  straight  in  the  face.     What  I  in  the  first  place  saw  was 
that  Mr.  Bullen  was  "  making  up  "  to  our  hostess  ;  what  I  saw 
in  the  second — what  at  any  rate  I  believed  I  saw — was  that  she 
had  come  a  certain  distance  to  meet  him  ;  all  of  which  would 
have  been  simple  and  usual  enough  had  not  the  very  things 
that  gave  it  such  a  character  been  exactly  the  things  I  should 
least  have  expected.     Even  this  first  time,  as  my  patron  sat 
there,  I  made  out  somehow  that  in  that  position  at  least  he 
was  sincere  and  sound.     Why  should  this  have  surprised  me  ? 
Why  should  1  immediately  have  asked  myself  how  he  would 
make  it  pay  ?     He  was  there  because  he  liked  to  be,  and  where 
was  the  wonder  of  his  liking  ?    There  was  no  wonder  in  my 
own,  I  felt,  so  that  my  state  of  mind  must  have  been  already  a 
sign  of  how  little  I  supposed  we  could  like  the  same  things. 
This   even   strikes   me,  on   looking   back,  as  an    implication 
sufficiently  ungraceful  of  the  absence  on  Miss  Delavoy's  part 
of  direct   and   designed   attraction.     I   dare  say   indeed   that 
Mr.  BuUen's  subjection  would  have  seemed  to  me  a  clearer 
thing  if  I  had  not  had  by  the  same  stroke  to  account  for  his 
friend's.     She  liked  him,  and  I  grudged  her  that,  though  with 
the  actual  limits  of  my  knowledge  of  both  parties  I  had  literally 
to  invent  reasons  for  its  being  a  perversity,  I  could  only  in 
private   treat   it   as   one,   and   this   in   spite   of    Mr.    Bullen's 
notorious  power  to  please.     He  was  the  handsomest  man  in 
"literary"  London  and,  controlling  the  biggest  circulation — 
a  body  of  subscribers  as  vast  as  a  conscript  army — he  repre- 
sented in  a  manner  the  modern  poetry  of  numbers.     He  was 
in  love  moreover,  or  he  thought  he  was ;  that  flushed  with  a 
general  glow  the  large   surface   he  presented.     This  surface, 
from  my  quiet  corner,  struck  me  as  a  huge  tract,  a  sort  of 
particoloured  map,  a  great  spotted  social  chart.     He  abounded 
\r)  the  nanies  of  things,  and  his  mind  was  like  a  great  staircase 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  II 

at  a  party — you  heard  them  bawled  at  the  top.     He  ought  to 

have  liked  Miss  Delavoy   because  her  name,  so   announced, 

sounded  well,  and  I  grudged  him,  as  I  grudged  the  young 

lady,  the  higher  motive  of  an  intelligence  of  her  charm.     It 

was  a  charm  so  fine  and  so  veiled  that  if  she  had  been  a  piece 

of  prose  or  of  verse  I  was  sure  he  would  never  have  discovered 

it.     The  oddity  was  that,  as  the  case  stood,  he  had  seen  she 

would  "  do."     i  too  had  seen  it,  but  then  I  was  a  critic  :  these 

remarks  will  sadly  have  miscarried  if  they  fail   to  show  the 

reader  how  much  of  one. 

III. 

I  mentioned  my  paper  and  my  disappointment,  but  I  think 
it  was  only  in  the  light  of  subsequent  events  that  I  could  fix 
an  impression  of  his  having,  at  the  moment,  looked  a  trifle 
embarrassed.  He  smote  his  brow  and  took  out  his  tablets  ; 
he  deplored  the  accident  of  which  I  complained,  and  promised 
to  look  straight  into  it.  An  accident  it  could  only  have  been, 
the  result  of  a  particular  pressure,  a  congestion  of  work.  Of 
course  he  had  had  my  letter  and  had  fully  supposed  it  had 
been  answered  and  acted  on.  My  spirits  at  this  revived,  and  I 
almost  thought  the  incident  happy  when  I  heard  Miss  Delavoy 
herself  put  a  clear  question. 

"  It  won't  be  for  April,  then,  which  was  what  I  had  hoped  ?  " 

It  was  what  /  had  hoped,  goodness  knew,  but  if  I  had  had 
no  anxiety  I  should  not  have  caught  the  low,  sweet  ring  of  her 
own.  It  made  Mr.  Bullen's  eyes  fix  her  a  moment,  and,  though 
the  thing  has  as  I  write  it  a  fatuous  air,  I  remember  thinking 
that  he  must  at  this  iristant  have  seen  in  her  face  almost  all  his 
contributor  saw.  If  he  did  he  couldn't  wholly  have  enjoyed  it ; 
yet  he  replied  genially  enough  :  "  I'll  put  it  into  June." 

"Oh,  June  !"  our  companion  murmured  in  a  manner  that  I 
took  as  plaintive — even  exquisite. 

Mr.  Bullen  had  got  up.  I  had  not  promised  myself  to  sit 
him  out,  much  less  to  drive  him  away  ;  and  at  this  sign  of  his 
retirement  I  had  a  sense  still  dim,  but  much  deeper,  of  being 
literally  lifted  by  my  check.  Even  before  it  was  set  up  my 
article  was  somehow  operative,  so  that  1  could  look  from  one 
of  my  companions  to  the  other  and  quite  magnanimously 
smile,     "  June  will  do  very  well," 


12  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Oh,  if  JO// say  SO !"   Miss  Delavoy  sighed  and  turned 

away. 

"  We  must  have  time  for  the  portrait ;  it  will  require  great 
care/'  Mr  BuUen  said. 

"  Oh,  please  be  sure  it  has  the  greatest  ! "  I  eagerly  returned. 

But  Miss  Delavoy  took  this  up,  speaking  straight  to  Mr. 
Bullen.  "  I  attach  no  importance  to  the  portrait.  My 
impatience  is  all  for  the  article." 

''The  article's  very  neat.  It's  very  neat,"  Mr.  Bullen 
repeated,     "  But  your  drawing's  our  great  prize." 

"  Your  great  prize,"  our  young  lady  replied,  "  can  only  be  the 
thing  that  tells  most  about  my  brother." 

''  Well,  that's  the  case  with  your  picture,"  Mr.  Bullen 
protested. 

"  How  can  you  say  that  ?  My  picture  tells  nothing  in  the 
world  but  that  he  never  sat  for  another." 

"  Which  is  precisely  the  enormous  and  final  fact  ! "  I  laugh- 
ingly exclaimed. 

Mr.  Bullen  looked  at  me  as  if  in  uncertainty  and  just  the 
least  bit  in  disapproval ;  then  he  found  his  tone.  "  It's  the  big 
fact  for  The  Cynosure.  I  shall  leave  you  in  no  doubt  of  that ! " 
he  added,  to  Miss  Delavoy,  as  he  went  away. 

I  was  surprised  at  his  going,  but  I  inferred  that,  from  the 
pressure  at  the  office,  he  had  no  choice  ;  and  I  was  at  least 
not  too  much  surprised  to  guess  the  meaning  of  his  last 
remark  to  have  been  that  our  hostess  must  expect  a  handsome 
draft.  This  allusion  had  so  odd  a  grace  on  a  lover's  lips  that, 
even  after  the  door  had  closed,  it  seemed  still  to  hang  there 
between  Miss  Delavoy  and  her  second  visitor.  Naturally, 
however,  we  let  it  gradually  drop  ;  she  only  said  with  a 
kind  of  conscious  quickness  :  "  I'm  really  very  sorry  for 
the  delay."  I  thought  her  beautiful  as  she  spoke,  and  I  felt 
that  I  had  taken  with  her  a  longer  step  than  the  visible  facts 
explained.  ''Yes,  it's  a  great  bore.  But  to  an  editor — one 
doesn't  show  it." 

She  seemed  amused.     "  Are  they  such  queer  fish  ?  " 
I  considered.     "  You  know  the  great  type." 

"  Oh,  I  don't  know  Mr.  Bullen  as  an  editor," 
"As  what,  then?" 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  I3 

"  Well,  as  what  you  call,  I  suppose,  a  man  of  the  world.  A 
very  kind,  clever  one." 

"Of  course  /  see  him  mainly  in  the  saddle  and  in  the 
charge — at  the  head  of  his  hundreds  of  thousands,  ^^ut  I 
mustn't  undermine  him,"  I  added,  smiling,  "  when  he^  doing 
so  much  for  me." 

She  appeared  to  wonder  about  it.  "  Is  it  really  a  great 
deal  ?  " 

"  To  publish  a  thing  like  that  ?  Yes — as  editors  go.  They're 
all  tarred  with  the  same  brush." 

"  Ah,  but  he  has  immense  ideas.  He  goes  in  for  the  best  in 
all  departments.  That's  his  own  phrase.  He  has  often  assured 
me  that  he'll  never  stoop." 

,  "  He  wants  none  but  *  first-class  stuff.'  That's  the  way  he 
has  expressed  it  to  me ;  but  it  comes  to  the  same  thing.  It's 
our  great  comfort.     He's  charming." 

"  He's  charming,"  my  friend  replied  ;    and    I    thought   for 
the  moment  we  had  done  with  Mr.  Bullen.     A  rich  reference 
to  him,  none  the  less,  struck  me  as  flashing  from  her  very 
next  words — words  that  she  uttered  without  appearing  to  have 
noticed  any  I  had  pronounced  in  the  interval.     "Does  no  one, 
then,  really  care  for  my  brother  ?  " 
I  was  startled  by  the  length  of  her  flight.     "  Really  care  ?  " 
"  No   one   but   you  ?      Every   month    your    study   doesn't 
appear  is  at  this  time  a  kind  of  slight." 
"  I  see  what  you  mean.     But  of  course  we're  serious." 
"  Whom  do  you  mean  by  '  we '  ?  " 
"  Well,  you  and  me." 

She  seemed  to  look  us  all  over  and  not  to  be  struck  with 
our  mass.     "  And  no  one  else  ?     No  one  else  is  serious  ?  " 

"  What  I  should  say  is  that  no  one  feels  the  whole  thing, 
don't  you  know  ?  as  much." 

Miss  Delavoy  hesitated.  "  Not  even  so  much  as  Mr. 
Bullen  ? "  And  her  eyes,  as  she  named  him,  waited,  to  my 
surprise,  for  my  answer. 

I  couldn't  quite  see  why  she  returned  to  him,  so  that  my 
answer  was  rather  lame.     "  Don't  ask  me  too  many  things  ; 
else  there  are  some  /  shall  have  to  ask." 
She  continued  to  look  at  me  ;  after  which  she  turned  away. 


14  COSMOPOLlS. 

**  fhen  I  won't — for  I  don't  understand  him."  She  turned 
away,  I  say,  but  the  next  moment  had  faced  about  w4th  a 
fresh,  inconsequent  question.  **  Then  why  in  the  world  has 
he  cooled  off  ?  " 

"  About  my  paper  ?  Has  he  cooled  ?  Has  he  shown  you 
that  otherwise  ?  "  I  asked. 

*'  Than  by  his  delay  ?     Yes,  by  silence — and  by  worse." 

*'  What  do  you  call  worse  ?  " 

"  Well,  to  say  of  it — and  twice  over — what  he  said  just  now." 

''  That  it's  very  '  neat '  ?     You  don't  think  it  is  f  "  I  laughed. 

**  I  don't  say  it ; "  and  with  that  she  smiled.  "  My  brother 
might  hear  ! " 

Her  tone  was  such  that,  while  it  lingered  in  the  air,  it 
deepened,  prolonging  the  interval,  whatever  point  there  was 
in  this  ;  unspoken  things  therefore  had  passed  between  us 
by  the  time  1  at  last  brought  out :  **  He  hasn't  read  me  !  It 
doesn't  matter,"  I  quickly  w^ent  on  ;  "  his  relation  to  what  I 
may  do  or  not  do  is,  for  his  own  purposes,  quite  complete 
enough  without  that." 

She  seemed  struck  with  this.  "  Yes,  his  relation  to  almost 
anything  is  extraordinary." 

•*  His  relation  to  everything ! "  It  rose  visibly  before  us 
and,  as  we  felt,  filled  the  room  with  its  innumerable,  indis- 
tinguishable objects.     "  Oh,  it's  the  making  of  him  ! " 

She  evidently  recognised  all  this,  but  after  a  minute  she 
again  broke  out :  "  You  say  he  hasn't  read  you  and  that  it 
doesn't  matter.  But  has  he  read  my  brother  ?  Doesn't  that 
matter  ?  " 

I  waved  away  the  thought.  "  For  what  do  you  take  him, 
and  why  in  the  world  should  it  ?  He  knows  perfectly  what 
he  wants  to  do,  and  his  postponement  is  quite  in  your  interest. 
The  reproduction  of  the  drawing " 

She  took  me  up.     "  I  hate  the  drawing  ! " 
*'  So   do    I,"    I    laughed,   "  and    I    rejoice   in   there    being 
something  on  which  we  can  feel  so  together  ! " 

IV. 

What  may  further  have  passed  between  us  on  this  occasion 
loses,  as  I  try  to  recall  it,  all  colour  in  the  light  of  a  com- 


JOMN   DELAVoY.  1^ 

munication  that  I  had  from  her  four  days  later.     It  consisted 
of  a  note  in  which  she  announced  to  me  that  she  had  heaifd 
from  Mr.  BuUen  in  terms  that  troubled  her  :  a  letter  from 
Paris — he  had  dashed  over  on  business — abruptly  proposing 
that  she  herself  should,  as  she  quoted,  give  him  something  ; 
something  that  her  intimate  knowledge  of  the  subject — which 
was    of    course   John   Delavoy — her   rare   opportunities   for 
observation  and  study  would  make  precious,  would  make  as 
unique   as  the  work  of   her  pencil.     He  appealed  to  her  to 
gratify  him  in  this  particular,  exhorted^her  to  sit  right  down 
to  her  task,  reminded  her  that  to  tell  a  loving  sister's  tale  was 
her  obvious,  her  highest  duty.    She  confessed  to  mystification 
and  invited  me  to  explain.*  Was  this  sudden  perception  of 
her  duty  a  result  on  Mr.  Bullen's  part  of  any  difference  with 
myself  ?     Did  he  want  two  papers  ?     Did  he  want  an  alterna- 
tive to  mine  ?     Did  he  want  hers  as  a  supplement  or  as  a 
substitute  ?     She  begged  instantly  to  be  informed  if  anything 
had  happened  to  mine.     To  meet  her  request  I  had  first  to 
make  sure,  and   I   repaired  on  the  morrow  to    Mr.  Bullen's 
office  in  the  eager  hope  that  he  was  back  from  Paris.     This 
hope  was  crowned  ;  he  had  crossed  in  the  night  and  was  in 
his  room  ;  so  that  on  sending  up  my  card  I  was  introduced  to 
his  presence,  where  I  promptly  broke  ground  by  letting  him 
know  that  1  had  had  even  yet  no  proof. 

**  Oh,  yes  !  about  Delavoy.  Well,  I've  rather  expected  you, 
but  you  must  excuse  me  if  I'm  brief.  My  absence  has  put  me 
back  ;  I've  returned  to  arrears.  Then  from  Paris  I  meant  to 
write  to  you,  but  even  there  I  was  up  to  my  neck.  I  think 
too  I've  instinctively  held  off  a  little.  You  won't  like  what 
1  have  to  say — you  can't!**  He  spoke  almost  as  if  I  might 
wish  to  prove  I  could.  "  The  fact  is,  you  see,  your  thing  won't 
do.     No — not  even  a  little." 

Even  after  Miss  Delavoy's  note  it  was  a  blow,  and  I  felt 
myself  turn  pale.  "  Not  even  a  little  ?  Why,  I  thought  you 
wanted  it  so  !  " 

Mr.  Bullen  just  perceptibly  braced  himself.     *'  My  dear  man, 
we  didn't  want  that !     We  couldn't  do  it.     I've  every  desire  to 
be  agreeable  to  yoy,  but  we  really  couldn't." 
I  sat  staring.     **  What  in  the  world's  llie  matter  with  it  ?  " 


1 6  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Well,  it's  impossible.     That's  what's  the  matter  with  it." 

"  Impossible  ?"  There  rolled  over  me  the  ardent  hours  and 
a  great  wave  of  the  feeling  that  I  had  put  into  it. 

He  hung  back  but  an  instant — he  faced  the  music.  "  It's 
indecent." 

I  could  only  wildly  echo  him.  ''Indecent?  Why,  it's 
absolutely,  it's  almost  to  the  point  of  a  regular  chill,  expository. 
What  in  the  world  is  it  but  critical  ?  " 

.  Mr.   BuUen's  retort  was  prompt.      "  Too  critical    by   half ! 
That's  just  where  it  is.     It  says  too  much." 

"  But  what  it  says  is  all  about  my  subject." 

"  I  dare  say,  but  I  don't  think  we  want  quite  so  much  about 
your  subject." 

I  seemed  to  swing  in  the  void  and  I  clutched,  fallaciously, 
at  the  nearest  thing.  "  What  you  do  want,  then — what  is  thai 
to  be  about  ?  " 

"  That's  for  you  to  find  out — it's  not  my  business  to  tell  you." 

It  was  dreadful,  this  snub  to  my  happy  sense  that  I  had 
found  out.  "  I  thought  you  wanted  John  Delavoy.  I've 
simply  stuck  to  him." 

Mr.  Bullen  gave  a  dry  laugh.  "I  should  think  you  had  !  " 
Then  after  an  instant  he  turned  oracular.  ''  Perhaps  we 
wanted  him — perhaps  we  didn't.  We  didn't  at  any  rate  want 
indelicacy." 

''Indelicacy?"  I  almost  shrieked.  "Why  it's  pure  por- 
traiture." 

"'Pure,'  my  dear  fellow,  just  begs  the  question.  It's  the 
objectionable — that's  what  it  is.  For  portraiture  of  such 
things,  at  all  events,  there's  no  place  in  our  scheme." 

I  speculated.     "  Your  scheme  for  an  account  of  Delavoy  ?  " 

Mr.  Bullen  looked  as  if  I  trifled.  "Our  scheme  for  a 
successful  magazine." 

"  No  place,  do  I  understand  you,  for  criticism  ?     No  place 

for  the  great  figures ?    If  you  don't  want  too  much  detail," 

i  went  on,  "  I  recall  perfectly  that  I  was  careful  not  to  go 
into  it.  What  I  tried  for  was  a  general  vivid  picture — which  I 
really  supposed  I  arrived  at.  I  boiled  the  man  down — I  gave 
the  three  or  four  leading  notes.  Them  I  did  try  to  give  with 
some  intensity." 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  17 

Mr.  Bullen,  while  I  spoke,  had  turned  about  and,  with  a 
movement  that  confessed  to  impatience  and  even  not  a  little,  I 
thought,  to  irritation,  fumbled  on  his  table  among  a  mass  of 
papers  and  other  objects  ;  after  which  he  had  pulled  out  a 
couple  of  drawers.  Finally  he  fronted  me  anew  with  my  copy 
in  his  hand,  and  I  had  meanwhile  added  a  word  about  the 
disadvantage  at  which  he  placed  me.     To  have  made  me  wait 

was  unkind  ;  but  to  have  made  wait  for  such  news !     I 

ought  at  least  to  have  been  told  it  earlier.  He  replied  to  this 
that  he  had  not  at  first  had  time  to  read  me,  and,  on 
the  evidence  of  my  other  things,  had  taken  me  pleasantly  for 
granted  :  he  had  gnly  been  enlightened  by  the  revelation  of 
the  proof.  What  he  had  fished  out  of  his  drawer  was,  in  effect, 
not  my  manuscript,  but  the  "galleys"  that  had  never  been 
sent  me.  The  thing  was  all  set  up  there,  and  my  companion, 
with  eyeglass  and  thumb,  dashed  back  the  sheets  and  looked 
up  and  down  for  places.  The  proof-reader,  he  mentioned,  had 
so  waked  him  up  with  the  blue  pencil  that  he  had  no  difficulty 
in  finding  them.  They  were  all  in  his  face  when  he  again 
looked  at  me.  "  Did  you  candidly  think  that  we  were  going  to 
print  this  ?  " 

All  my  silly  young  pride  in  my  performance  quivered  as  if 
under  the  lash.  "  Why  the  devil  else  should  I  have  taken  the 
trouble  to  write  it  ?  If  you're  not  going  to  print  it,  why  the 
devil  did  you  ask  me  for  it  ?  " 

"  I  didn't  ask  you.     You  proposed  it  yourself." 

"  You  jumped  at  it  ;  you  quite  agreed  you  ought  to 
have  it :  it  comes  10  the  same  thing.  So  indeed  you 
ought  to  have  it.  It's  too  ignoble,  you're  not  taking  up  such 
a  man." 

He  looked  at  me  hard.  "  I  have  taken  him  up.  I  do  want 
something  about  him,  and  I've  got  his  portrait  there — coming 
out  beautifully." 

"  Do  you  mean  you've  taken  him  up,"  I  inquired,  "  by  asking 
for  something  of  his  sister  ?  Why,  in  that  case,  do  you  speak 
as  if  I  had  forced  on  you  the  question  of  a  paper  ?  If  you 
want  one  you  want  one." 

Mr.  Bullen  continued  to  sound  me.  "How  do  you  know 
what  I've  asked  of  his  sister  ?  " 

VOU  IX.— NO.  XXV.  2 


1 8  COSMOPOLIS. 

''  I  know  what  Miss  Delavoy  tells  me.  She  let  me  know  it 
as  soon  as  she  had  heard  from  you." 

"  Do  you  mean  that  you've  just  seen  her  ?  '* 

"  Tve  not  seen  her  since  the  time  I  met  you  at  her  house  ; 
but  I  had  a  note  from  her  yesterday.  She  couldn't  understand 
your  appeal — in  the  face  of  knowing  what  I've  done  myself." 

Something  seemed  to  tell  me  at  this  instant  that  she  had  not 
yet  communicated  with  Mr.  Bullen,  but  that  he  wished  me  not 
to  know  she  hadn't.  It  came  out  still  more  in  the  temper 
with  which  he  presently  said  :  "  I  want  what  Miss  Delavoy  can 
do,  but  I  don't  want  this  kind  of  thing  ! "  And  he  fairly  shook 
my  proof  at  me,  as  if  for  a  preliminary  to  hurling  it. 

I  took  it  from  him,  to  show  I  anticipated  his  violence,  and, 
profoundly  bewildered,  I  turned  over  the  challenged  pages. 
They  grinned  up  at  me  with  the  proof-reader's  shocks,  but  the 
shocks,  as  my  eye  caught  them,  bloomed  on  the  spot  like 
flowers.  I  didn't  feel  abased — so  many  of  my  good  things 
came  back  to  me.  "  What  on  earth  do  you  seriously  mean  ? 
This  thing  isn't  bad.     It's  awfully  good — it's  beautiful." 

With  an  odd  movement  he  plucked  it  back  again,  though 
not  indeed  as  if  from  any  new  conviction.  He  had  had  after 
all  a  kind  of  contact  with  it  that  had  made  it  a  part  of  his  stock. 
"  I  dare  say  it's  clever.  For  the  kind  of  thing  it  is,  it's  as  beau- 
tiful as  you  like.  It's  simply  not  our  kind."  He  seemed  to 
break  out  afresh.     "  Didn't  you  know  more ?  " 

I  waited.     "  More  what  ?" 

He  in  turn  did  the  same.  "  More  everything.  More  about 
Delavoy.     The  whole  point  was  that  I  thought  you  did." 

I  fell  back  in  my  chair.  "You  think  my  article  shows  igno- 
rance ?  I  sat  down  to  it  with  the  sense  that  I  knew  more  than 
anyone." 

Mr.  Bullen  restored  it  again  to  my  hands.  "  You've  kept  that 
pretty  well  out  of  sight  then.  Didn't  you  get  anything  out  of 
her  ?     It  was  simply  for  that  I  addressed  you  to  her." 

I  took  from  him  with  this,  as  well,  a  silent  statement  of  what 
it  had  not  been  for.  **  I  got  everything  in  the  wide  world  I 
could.  We  almost  worked  together,  but  what  appeared  was  that 
all  her  own  knowledge,  all  her  own  view,  quite  fell  in  with  what  I 
had  already  said.    There  appeared  nothing  to  subtract  or  to  add/' 


JOHN  DELAVOY.  19 

He  looked  hard  again,  not  this  time  at  me,  but  at  the  docu- 
ment in  my  hands.  "  You  mean  she  has  gone  into  all  that — 
seen  it  just  as  it  stands  there  ?  " 

"If  I've  still,"  I  replied,  "any  surprise  left,  it's  for  the 
surprise  your  question  implies.  You  put  our  heads  together, 
and  you've  surely  known  all  along  that  they've  remained  so. 
She  told  me  a  month  ago  that  she  had  immediately  let  you 
know  the  good  she  thought  of  what  I  had  done." 

Mr.  Bullen  very  candidly  remembered,  and  I  could  make 
out  that  if  he  flushed  as  he  did  so  it  was  because  what  most 
came  back  to  him  was  his  own  simplicity.  "  I  see.  That 
must  have  been  why  I  trusted  you — sent  you,  without  control, 

straight  off  to  be  set  up.     But  now  that  I  see  you ! "  he 

went  on. 

"  You're  surprised  at  her  indulgence  ?  " 
Once   more  he  snatched  at   the  record   of  my  rashness — 
once  more  he  turned  it  over.     Then  he  read  out  two  or  three 
paragraphs.     "  Do  you  mean  she  has  gone  into  all  that  ?  " 

"  My  dear  sir,  what  do  you  take  her  for  ?  There  wasn't  a 
line  we  didn't  thresh  out,  and  our  talk  wouldn't  for  either  of 
us  have  been  a  bit  interesting  if  it  hadn't  been  really 
frank.  Have  you  to  learn  at  this  time  of  day,"  I  continued, 
"  what  her  feeling  is  about  her  brother's  work  ?  She's  not 
a  bit  stupid.     She  has  a  kind  of  worship  for  it." 

Mr.  Bullen  kept  his  eyes  on  one  of  my  pages.  "  She  passed 
her  life  with  him  and  was  extremely  fond  of  him." 

"  Yes,  and  she  has  the  point  of  view  and  no  end  of  ideas. 
She's  tremendously  intelligent." 

Our  friend  at  last  looked  up  at  me,  but  I  scarce  knew  what  to 
make  of  his  expression.  "Then  she'll  do  me  exactly  what  I  want." 
"Another  article,  you  mean,  to  replace  mine  ?" 
"Of  a  totally  different  sort.  Something  the  public  will 
stand."  His  attention  reverted  to  my  proof,  and  he  suddenly 
reached  out  for  a  pencil.  He  made  a  great  dash  against  a 
block  of  my  prose  and  placed  the  page  before  me.  "  Do  you 
pretend  to  me  they'll  stand  that  ?  " 

"That"  proved,  as  I  looked  at  it,  a  summary  of  the  subject, 
deeply  interesting  and  treated,  as  I  thought,  with  extraordinary 
art,  of  the  work  to  which   I  gave  the   highest  place  in   my 


20  COSMOPOLIS. 

author's  array.  I  took  it  in,  sounding  it  hard  for  some  hidden 
vice,  but  with  a  frank  relish,  in  effect,  of  its  lucidity  ;  then  I 
answered  :  **  If  they  won't  stand  it,  what  will  they  stand  ?" 

Mr.  BuUen  looked  about  and  put  a  few  objects  on  his  table 
to  rights.  "They  won't  stand  anything."  He  spoke  with 
such  pregnant  brevity  as  to  make  his  climax  strongier.  "  And 
quite  right  too  !  /'m  right,  at  any  rate  ;  I  can't  plead  ignorance. 
1  know  where  1  am,  and  I  want  to  stay  there.  That  single 
page  would  have  cost  me  five  thousand  subscribers." 

"  Why,  that  single  page  is  a  statement  of  the  very 
essence ! " 

He  turned  sharp  round  at  me.     "  Very  essence  of  what  ?  " 

"  Of  my  very  topic,  damn  it." 

*'  Your  very  topic  is  John  Delavoy." 

*'  And  what's  his  very  topic  ?  Am  I  not  to  attempt  to  utter 
it  ?     What  under  the  sun  else  am  I  writing  about  ?  " 

"  You're  not  writing  in  The  Cynosure  about  the  relations  of 
the  sexes.  With  those  relations,  with  the  question  of  sex  in 
any  degree,  I  should  suppose  you  would  already  have  seen  that 
we  have  nothing  whatever  to  do.  If  you  want  to  know  what 
our  public  won't  stand,  there  you  have  it." 

I  seem  to  recall  that  I  smiled  sweetly  as  I  took  it.  "  1  don't 
know,  I  think,  what  you  mean  by  those  phrases,  which  strike 
me  as  too  empty  and  too  silly,  and  of  a  nature  therefore  to  be 
more  deplored  than  any,  I'm  positive,  that  I  use  in  my  analysis. 
1  don't  use  a  single  one  that  even  remotely  resembles  them.  I 
simply  try  to  express  my  author,  and  if  your  public  won't  stand 
his  being  expressed,  mention  to  me  kindly  the  source  of  its 
interest  in  him." 

Mr.  Bullen  was  perfectly  ready.  "  He's  all  the  rage  with  the 
clever  people — that's  the  source.  The  interest  of  the  public  is 
whatever  a  clever  article  may  make  it." 

"  I  don't  understand  you.  How^  can  an  article  be  clever,  to 
begin  with,  and  how  can  it  make  anything  of  anything,  if  it 
doesn't  avail  itself  of  material  ?  " 

''There  is  material,  which  I'd  hoped  you'd  use.  Miss 
Delavoy  has  lots  of  material.  I  don't  know  what  she  has  told 
you,  but  I  know  what  she  has  told  me.''  He  hung  fire  but  an 
instant.     "  Quite  lovely  things. 


JOHN    DELAVOY.  21 

'*  And  have  you  told  her ?  " 

"  Told  her  what  ?  "  he  asked  as  I  paused. 

"  The  lovely  things  you've  just  told  me." 

Mr.  Bullen  got  up  ;  folding  the  rest  of  my  proof  together, 
he  made  the  final  surrender  with  more  dignity  than  I  had 
looked  for.  "  You  can  do  with  this  what  you  like."  Then  as 
he  reached  the  door  with  me  :  "  Do  you  suppose  that  1  talk 
with  Miss  Delavoy  on  such  subjects  ? "  1  answered  that  he 
could  leave  that  to  me — I  shouldn't  mind  so  doing;  and  1  recall 
that  before  1  quitted  him  something  again  passed  between  us 
on  the  question  of  her  drawing.  "  What  we  want,"  he  said, 
**  is  just  the  really  nice  thing,  the  pleasant,  right  thing  to  go 
with  it.     That  drawing's  going  to  take  !  " 

Henry  James. 

(To  he  continued.) 


SOCIALISM    AND    THE    FUTURE    OF 

ENGLAND. 


Ix  dealing  with  the  great  Socialist  movement  of  the  end  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  even  the  most  superficial  obser\'er  must  be 
struck  with  its  increasingly  international  character.  It  is  true 
that  the  old  "  International"  as  a  definite  organisation,  com- 
posed of  representatives  of  all  countries,  issuing  manifestoes  and 
giving  advice  to  the  civilised  world,  came  to  an  end  in  1871, 
and  has  never  since  been  reconstituted.  But  the  growth  of  the 
international  spirit  has  been  in  nowise  hampered  by  the  lack  of 
a  common  central  council,  though  the  absence  of  clear,  forcible 
pronouncements  upon  questions  of  general  international 
interest  has  at  times  been  felt,  and  is  so  felt  to-day,  as  a  serious 
practical  need.  In  every  civilised  country,  however,  there 
exists  at  the  present  moment  a  body  of  organised  and  disci- 
plined Socialists  who,  here  slowly,  there  rapidly,  are  becoming 
a  recognised  political  and  social  power  within  their  respective 
national  boundaries,  and  are  making  ready  to  act  in  concert  on 
the  wider  field  of  international  relations. 

All  these  organised  national  Socialist  parties  hold  the  same 
opinions.  They  have  a  clearly  defined  and  generally  accepted 
theory  as  to  the  past,  the  present,  and  probable  future  of  human 
society  taken  as  a  whole.  However  much  their  tactics  may 
vary  in  order  to  meet  local  requirements,  they  are  agreed  as 
to  the  main  lines  of  the  policy  which  should  be  adopted  in 
order  to  help  forward  the  great  general  transformation  which 
is  everywhere  going  on.  At  all  the  important  international 
Congresses  held  during  the  past  ten  years,  there  has  been  no 
difference  of  principle  between  the  various  national  corps 
of  the  main    international  Socialist  army.      Such  disputes  or 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE   OK   ENGLAND.  23 

disturbances  as  occurred  have  arisen  from  the  foolish  admis- 
sion to  these  gatherings  of  people  whose  fundamental  prin- 
ciples are  entirely  opposed  to  those  of  that  social-democracy 
which  now  comprises  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Socialists 
in  every  country.  Argument  and  discussion  there  must 
necessarily  be  when  men  and  women  even  of  the  same  views 
meet  to  consider  the  difficulties  and  complications  of  our 
existing  industrial  and  commercial  systems  ;  but  there  is  no 
longer  any  difference  of  opinion  as  to  the  groundwork  of  their 
creed,  and  the  governing  classes  in  all  countries  have  now  to 
face  the  strenuous  and  unceasing  opposition  of  educated  and 
determined  men,  who  feel  quite  confident  that  the  future  is  to 
them. 

Hitherto,  there  has  been  a  disposition  everywhere  on  the 
part  of  those  in  authority  and  their  hangers-on  in  the  Churches 
and  Universities,  to  scoflf  at  Socialism  as  one  of  those  popular 
delusions  that  have  swept  vast  multitudes  on  to  do,  or  try  to 
do,  they  scarcely  knew  what,  of  which  history  gives  us  several 
important  examples.  But  the  steady  advance  of  Socialist 
opinion,  and  the  acceptance  of  Socialist  theories  by  some  of 
the  ablest  writers  and  thinkers  in  all  countries,  has  checked  this 
tendency  to  make  fun  *of  the  whole  movement ;  and  now  a 
feeling  of  curiosity  and  anxiety,  not  to  say  of  fear,  is  being 
manifested,  which  contrasts  markedly  with  the  previous  indif- 
ference or  derision.  An  uneasy  suspicion  is  even  being  aroused 
in  many  minds  that  the 'Socialists  may  after  all  be  right,  and 
that  the  present  form  of  society,  like  other  forms  of  society 
which  preceded  it,  must  inevitably  undergo  a  crucial  transfor- 
mation ;  while  at  the  same  time  the  drawbacks  to  our  existing 
social  arrangements, -and  the  terrible  contrasts  between  riches 
and  poverty,  in  view  of  the -enormous  power  to  produce  wealth 
now  at  the  disposal  of  mankind,  become  more  and  more 
obvious  each  day. 

The  theories  which  meet  with  such  wide  acceptance  among 
the  working  people  of  all  nationalities,  and  are  now  forcing 
their  way  among  the  well-to-do  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic, 
are,  however,  as  is  well  known,  not  based  on  any  preconceived 
ideas  or  a  priori  reasoning.  "  Utopian  Socialism,"  as  it  has 
been  called,  has  nowadays   little  influence.     Even   the  most 


24  COSMOPOLIS. 

carefully  conceived  experiments  which  aim  at  withdrawing 
people  from  their  surroundings  and  establishing  small  oases 
of  co-operation  outside  the  prevailing  wilderness  of  competi- 
tion, meet  with  little  but  ridicule  from  modern  Socialists.  It 
is  the  whole  sweep  of  society  which  we  aspire  to  influence  and 
control ;  not  by  getting  out  of  it,  but  by  living  in  it  ;  not  by 
denouncing  it,  but  by  understanding  it  and  bringing  others  to 
understand  it.  Then,  as  the  result  of  such  general  compre- 
hension of  the  facts  around  us,  we  propose  to  attain  through 
collective  management  the  complete  domination  of  the  entire 
business  of  the  community,  by  and  for  the  benefit  of  all  its 
members. 

Hence  there  are  two  sides  to  our  view  of  sociology  :  the 
historical  side,  which  treats  of  the  growth  of  man  in  society 
through  ages  past  up  to  our  capitalist  society  of  to-day  ;  and 
the  practical  side,  which  takes  account  of  the  facts  of  our  own 
time  arising  out  of  the  general  unconscious  development  of 
society,  and  endeavours  to  handle  them,  through  an  educated 
and  disciplined  democracy,  to  the  general  advantage  of  coming 
generations. 

Thus  we  contend  that  the  economic  condition  of  any  given 
society  was  and  is  the  main,  though  by  no  means  the  sole, 
factor  in  determining  its  general  arrangements,  and  that  every 
successive  social  development  on  a  large  scale  has  been  the 
inevitable  result  of  some  important  change  in  the  economic 
relations  previously  existing  ;  each  modification  as  it  occurs 
having  had  to  struggle  hard  in  order  to  make  its  way  through 
the  social  forms,  customs,  laws,  religions  bequeathed  to  the 
community  from  the  earlier  stages.  For  example,  the  enslave- 
ment of  captives  as  family  or  tribal  servants,  which  replaced 
immediate  butchery  or  cannibalism,  only  took  place  when  such 
enslaved  captives,  owing  to  the  progress  of  man's  power  over 
nature,  could  produce  more  than  their  keep.  Similarly  tlie 
private  ownership  of  cattle  or  plots  of  land,  due  likewise  to 
economic  causes,  split  up  the  primitive  collective  property, 
constituted  the  first  step  in  the  dissolution  of  the  ancient 
communities,  and  in  the  course  of  ages  substituted  property 
relations  for  those  of  kinship,  which  had  at  first  entirely 
dominated  social  arrangements*     The  development  of  private 


SOCIALISM    AND  THE    FUTURE   OK   ENGLAND.  2^ 

property  on  an  ever-increasing  scale,  as  commerce  and  class 
rule  came  in  to  extend  the  new  conditions,  rendered  unavoid- 
able all  that  followed,  up  to  and  including  the  great  slave- 
supported  civilisations  of  antiquity. 

At  a  much  later  period  the  failure  of  the  Roman  armies  to 
conquer,  or  even  to  hold  their  own  against,  the  barbarian 
tribes  on  the  frontiers  dried  up  the  sources  of  the  slave  supply 
for  the  great  slave-worked  estates  of  the  Roman  Empire,  and 
enforced  the  abandonment  of  that  costly  and  exhausting 
method  of  cultivating  the  land  in  huge  masses  for  the  advan- 
tage of  the  rich,  which  had  already  impoverished  so  much  of 
the  magnificent  soil  of  Italy.  Morality  or  religion  was  not 
involved  in  the  changes.  In  all  cases  a  distinct  economic 
advance,  or  economic  breakdown,  according  as  it  is  viewed 
from  behind  or  from  the  front,  brought  about  a  complete 
change  in  all  the  social  conditions  of  the  period.  Similarly,  the 
onward  march  from  feudalism,  with  its  attendant  villenage  and 
personal  relations,  to  a  society  in  which  wealth  at  the  top  and 
free  men  and  wage-earners  at  the  bottom  were  the  main 
features,  brought  with  it  a  complete  alteration  in  the  social 
structure  of  the  entire  community.  The  methods  of  production 
being  modified  below  the  whole  of  society,  including  its  laws 
and  religion,  necessarily  underwent  a  corresponding,  though 
gradual,  change  above.  So,  in  like  manner,  when  the  great 
machine  industry  and  world-wide  commerce  entailed  still 
further  development  in  the  same  direction,  what  survived  of 
the  old  personal  relations  and  local  restrictions  disappeared, 
and  nothing  but  money  relations  became  the  rule  with  civilised 
mankind. 

And  now,  once  more,  this  great  capitalist  period,  as  wc 
contend,  is  coming  to  an  end  ;  not  by  reason  of  the  disgust 
of  mankind  at  large  with  its  ethical  wrong-doing,  or  class 
injustice,  but  because,  like  all  the  old  systems  of  production 
which  have  preceded  it,  and  have  passed  away,  it  blocks  the 
path  of  further  progress,  and  is,  therefore,  now  engaged  in 
digging  its  own  grave.  Free  competition,  which  was  the  life 
of  the  earlier  individual  capitalism,  is  gradually  being  swept 
away  by  stupendous  companies,  national  and  international. 
Even  Protection  in  many  countries  fosters  this  new  growth. 


26  COSMOPOLIS. 

The  manifold  antagonisms  of  our  modern  life,  between  gold 
and  commodities,  between  organisation  in  the  factory  and 
anarchy  in  the  exchange,  between  production  for  use  and 
production  for  profit,  between  country  and  town,  &c.,  are  all 
becoming  merged  in  the  one  crucial  antagonism  between  the 
wage-earners  as  a  class  and  the  capitalists  as  a  class ;  which, 
again,  is  due  to  the  economic  antagonism,  engendered  at  the 
very  inception  of  the  capitalist  system,  between  social  produc- 
tion for  social  purposes  and  individual  control  of  the  products 
so  created  for  the  purpose  of  making  an  individual  profit. 
The  workers,  who  have  only  their  labour-power  to  sell  for 
wages  in  order  to  obtain  subsistence,  are  combining  every  day 
more  and  more  closely  on  the  one  side  :  the  capitalist  class, 
which  obtains  its  wealth  by  the  value  produced  in  excess  of 
the  wages  by  the  workers,  is  combining  every  day  more  and 
more  closely  on  the  other.  Above  the  two  combatants  the 
State,  which,  after  having  wholly  abandoned  its  functions,  has 
been  compelled,  as  the  organised  force  of  the  community,  to 
interfere  in  order  to  protect,  for  the  national  benefit,  the  lives 
and  health  of  the  workers,  to  prevent  the  wholesale  sacrifice  of 
children  by  the  capitalists,  to  secure  the  general  education  of 
the  people  and  to  mitigate  the  class  war,  is  now  also  driven 
to  assume  control  of  great  public  services,  and  is  hesitating  as 
to  how  far  this  system  can  be  advantageously  extended. 
Municipalities,  also,  are  proceeding  in  the  same  direction,  and 
collective  is  being  substituted  for  individual  or  company 
agency  in  every  direction,  even  by  men  who  proclaim 
themselves  the  bitterest  opponents  of  Socialism  in  every 
shape. 

Throughout  the  development  from  first  to  last  this  progress 
has  been  wholly  unconscious.  Mankind  so  far  have  been 
ignorant  whither  they  went.  The  wisest  have  been  as  much 
in  the  dark  as  the  most  foolish.  No  intelligent  attempt 
has  been  made  to  direct  the  course  of  the  social  evolution 
which  has  landed  us,  as  a  huge  collection  of  sentient  automata, 
in  an  industrial  system  whose  nature  we  have  but  just  begun 
to  comprehend.  Now,  however,  the  time  has  come  when  we, 
who  reap  the  heritage  of  this  long  succession  of  human 
sufferings,  are  able  to  foresee  to  some  extent  the  line  which 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE   OF  ENGLAND.  27 

events  are  taking,  and  to  prepare  for  the  approach ingj'changes 
as  reasonable  beings  should.  Hence,  though  all  Social 
Democrats  are  agreed  that  the  inevitable  outcome  of  scientific 
discovery  and  social  transformation  will  be  a  series  of  co- 
operative commonwealths  coming  ever  closer  to  one  another, 
in  which  universal  co-operation  for  existence  and  enjoyment 
will  be  substituted  for  anarchical  competition  for  riches  and 
misery,  in  which  also  economic  antagonisms  being  entirely 
removed  class  distinctions  will  of  necessity  disappear,  and  the 
class  State  will  be  swept  away  for  ever  ;  nevertheless,  and  in 
spite  of  this  acceptance  of  inevitable  change,  Socialists  as  a 
body  agree  that  attempts  must  be  made,  even  under  present 
conditions,  to  ameliorate  the  conditions  of  life  for  the  prole- 
tariat, or  propertyless  wage-earners,  of  every  nation,  and  have 
agreed  upon  certain  palliatives  at  international  congress  after 
international  congress,  as  being  applicable  to  the  workers  of 
every  country. 

Such  measures  are  the  reduction  of  the  labour  day  to 
eight  hours  or  less  ;  the  establishment  of  one  full  day  of  rest 
in  each  week  for  the  workers  in  all  trades  and  businesses ; 
the  abolition  of  child  labour  in  factories  and  workshops  before 
the  age  of  sixteen  ;  the  maintenance  at  State  charge  of  the 
children  in  all  board  schools  up  to  the  same  age  ;  the  complete 
suppression  of  trades  which  are  proved  to  be  necessarily 
injurious  to  health,  and  the  more  thorough  provision  of 
sanitary  conditions  in  all  factories  ;  the  restriction  as  far  as 
possible  of  night  work.  These  and  a  few  other  measures  are 
regarded,  I  say,  as  immediately  applicable  to  all  civilised 
countries,  and,  though  first  proposed  by  Socialists,  are  now 
advocated  by  many  who  have  no  sympathy  with  Socialist 
doctrines  as  a  whole.  By  degrees  they  will  probably  be 
adopted  by  the  different  Governments  in  order  to  gain  popu- 
larity, or  to  head  off,  as  they  think,  the  dangerous  Socialist 
agitation.  But  every  such  advance  made  towards  the  attain- 
ment* of  a  higher  standard  of  life,  better  education,  and 
generally  improved  conditions  of  existence  for  the  mass  of 
the  people,  tells  in  favour  of  the  earlier  victory  for  our  final 
programme,  the  acceptance  of  which  in  the  meantime  is 
fostered  by  irrepressible  economic  causes,   and  is  resolutely 


28  COSMOPOLIS. 

championed  by  the  members  of  the  party  in  every  country. 
That  a  population  which  is  physically  deteriorated  or  badly 
educated  affords  a  most  unpromising  field  for  Socialist 
propaganda  has  long  since  been  fully  admitted ;  and  it  is 
surely  noteworthy  that  it  is  precisely  the  best  educated  people 
in  Europe,  the  Germans,  who  have  the  most  formidable  Social- 
Democratic  party  of  all  at  the  present  time. 

Such  theories  of  material  historic  development,  such  pro- 
posals for  immediate  practical  reforms,  such  growing  power 
for  political,  and  even  in  case  of  unbearable  oppression  from 
above,  for  forcible  action,  held,  advocated  and  attained  by  the 
Socialist  party  of  the  world,  can  scarcely  fail  to  produce  a 
cumulative  effect  on  modern  society  as  time  goes  on.  The 
increasing  tendency  to  widen  the  area  of  the  public  services 
has  its  effect  also  in  the  same  direction  ;  though  for  the  time 
being  the  control  of  these  services  by  the  State  may,  in  some 
cases,  apparently  strengthen  a  reactionary  bureaucracy.  Con- 
sequently, there  was  never  a  period  when  Socialists  regarded 
the  immediate  future  with  more  confidence  than  they  do 
to-day.  If  here  and  there  a  momentary  slackening  of  the  tidal 
flow  may  be  detected,  this  is  more  than  made  up  for  by  the 
steady  onward  sweep  of  the  whole  stream,  while  the  elements 
of  internal  dissension  which  in  times  past  have  threatened  both 
national  and  international  Socialist  parties  are  at  present  of 
less  significance  than  usual. 

I. 

Socialism  being  thus  widespread  at  the  present  time,  and 
influencing  modern  thought  and  action  in  every  direction,  it 
would  naturally  be  expected  that  Great  Britain,  the  country  in 
which  the  great  machine  industry,  with  its  complementary  distri- 
buting agents,  canals,  railways,  and  steamships,  first  developed, 
would  be  also  the  country  in  which  these  theories,  growing  as 
they  do  out  of  the  capitalist  system,  would  find  the  most 
general  acceptance.  Forty  or  fifty  years  ago  it  was  taken  for 
granted  by  the  Socialist  leaders  that  this  would  be  the  case  ; 
and  to  this  day  Continental  Socialists  cannot  understand  why 
it  is  that  this  island,  where  the  original  aristocracy  of  labour, 
in  the  form  of  the  Trade   Unions  of  skilled  workers,  is  more 


CIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE   OF   ENGLAND.  29 

powerful  than  anywhere  else,  has  fallen  behind  other  nations 
in  the  creation  of  a  vigorous  and  effective  Socialist  party,  as 
well  as  in  the  adoption  of  thorough  democratic  political  forms. 
The  fact  is  indisputable.  While  Germany,  France,  Belgium, 
Italy,  and  other  countries  have  many  Socialist  deputies  in  their 
respective  National  Assemblies,  there  is  not  a  single  Socialist 
in  the  House  of  Commons  ;  nor  do  recent  elections  show  that 
there  is  much  chance  of  our  obtaining  a  seat  in  the  national 
assembly,  for  the  next  three  or  four  years  at  any  rate.  Even 
in  constituencies  where  the  working  classes  could  return  any 
candidate  they  choose,  as  at  Barnsley  or  Middleton,  they  still 
prefer  to  elect  as  their  representatives  men  of  the  employing 
class,  who  have  made  fortunes  at  their  expense,  instead  of 
selecting  Trade  Unionists  or  Socialists  who  would  directly 
champion  their  own  class  interests. 

It  is  true  that  our  political  forms  are  at  least  a  hundred  years 
behind  our  economic  development,  and  that  the  absence  of 
universal  suffrage,  of  payment  of  registration  and  election 
expenses  out  of  the  public  purse,  of  payment  of  members, 
of  shortened  periods  of  qualification  for  voting  and  of  the 
second  ballot,  puts  the  English  workers  at  a  great  disadvantage 
in  elections  as  compared  with  many  of  their  Continental 
brethren.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  our  complete  freedom  of 
speech,  of  the  press,  and  of  combination  give  opportunities  here 
which  are  too  often  lacking  in  countries  where  the  Socialist 
party  is  strongest.  Granted  that  great  political  reforms  are 
still  needed  before  Great  Britain  can  be  considered  electorally 
a  democratic  country  in  the  sense  in  which  France  or  even 
Germany  or  Italy  is  a  democratic  country ;  the  truth  remains 
that,  so  far,  the  English  and  Scotch  workers,  even  where  they 
have  the  power  to  do  precisely  what  they  please,  and  the 
expense  is  of  no  great  moment,  fail  to  exercise  their  power,  as 
an  ever-grow4ng  proportion  of  the  workers  on  the  Continent 
exercise  it,  in  favour  of  Socialist  candidates. 

The  nation  which  affords  to  the  students  of  the  world  the 
classical  ground  for  studying  working-class  movements  ;  where 
capitalism  in  its  modern  shape  attained  full  development  a 
generation  or  more  before  it  did  so  elsewhere  ;  where  the 
Chartists  gave  the  first  example  of  a  determined  and  intelligent 


30  COSMOPOLIS. 

working-class  revolt  against  the  domination  of  unscrupulous 
employers  ;  where  the  Legislature  was  first  compelled  to  enact 
laws  protecting  women  and  children,  and  to  some  extent  men, 
from  the  ruthless  greed  and  cruelty  of  a  money-getting  class  ; 
where  the  direct  influence  of  the  Trade  Union  leaders  on 
Governments  first  became  very  considerable,  two  of  them 
having  actually  held  important  office  as  a  tribute  to  that 
influence  ;  where  the  great  co-operative  societies  first  became 
industrially  important — this  nation  is  now  in  many  respects  by 
no  means  abreast  of  the  Continental  peoples,  and  is  actually 
unable  or  unwilling  to  carry  out  international  agreements  for 
the  benefit  of  the  children  of  the  workers,  in  accordance  with 
the  understanding  arrived  at  even  by  the  Governments  some 
years  ago  in  Berlin.  This  surely  is  a  very  remarkable  state  of 
things,  and  one  not  to  be  explained  by  some  passing  reference 
to  the  "innate  conservatism  of  Englishmen."  For  the  past 
forty  years  at  least  there  has  been  a  growing  disinclination  to 
use  the  funds  and  forces  of  organised  Trade  Unionism  for 
political  purposes  on  independent  lines.  Unions  which 
contain  in  their  statutes  direct  reference  to  and  provision  for 
such  action,  refuse  to  move  directly  in  a  political  sense  in 
order  to  gain  advantages  for  themselves  and  their  class.  No 
experience  hitherto  has  taught  them  wisdom  in  this  matter. 
Pitmen,  cotton  hands,  railway  men,  dock  labourers,  engineers, 
have  all  so  far  shut  their  eyes  as  trade  unionists  to  the  effective 
and  economical  powers  of  political  action  which  lie  ready  to 
their  hand  ;  though  it  is  quite  certain  that  if  one-half  of  the 
money,  energy,  and  self-sacrifice  recently  expended  by  the 
engineers,  not  to  speak  of  other  trades,  on  their  great  strike  and 
lock-out  had  been  devoted  to  political  action,  an  eight-hour 
day  by  legislative  enactment  would  by  this  time  have  been 
secured  for  every  trade  in  the  country.  Clearly  there  are  some 
general  causes  at  work  here  to  blind  the  workers  to  their  own 
true  interests. 

The  situation  is  even  worse  in  regard  to  the  metropolis 
taken  by  itself.  Every  other  capital  in  Europe  is  the  most 
active  centre  of  the  advanced  movement  in  the  nation.  Paris, 
Berlin,  Vienna,  Rome,  Brussels,  Copenhagen,  all  lead  the  way 
in  their  respective  countries ;   in  each  the  Socialist  party  is 


SOCIALISM   AND   THE   FUTURE   OF  ENGLAND.  3 1 

extremely  formidable,  and  is  possessed  of  an  influence,  as  on 
the  Municipal  Council  of  Paris,  out  of  all  proportion  to  its 
mere  voting  power.  London,  on  the  other  hand,  returns  to 
Parliament  a  large  majority  of  actual  reactionists,  and  boasts  of 
not  a  single  vigorous  Socialist  on  its  County  Council  of  its 
School  Board.  Socialists,  it  is  true,  figure  frequently  on  the 
metropolitan  Vestries  and  Boards  of  Guardians ;  and  in  out- 
lying districts  such  as  West  Ham  and  Southend  the  Social- 
Democratic  Party  have  recently  astonished  the  inhabitants  by 
returning  their  candidates  to  the  local  Councils  by  a  very  large 
poll.  But  the  contrast  between  London  as  a  whole  and  other 
capitals  is  none  the  less  striking  from  the  political  point  of 
view. 

Nor  is  this  contrast  rendered  any  more  intelligible  when  we 
look  at  the  history  of  the  great  centre  of  capitalism  and 
commercialism.  For  centuries  London  led  the  nation  ;  and 
even  within  the  last  twenty-five  years  no  one  could  have  pre- 
dicted the  advent  of  such  a  period  of  apathy  and  reaction 
among  nearly  six  millions  of  people  as  that  which  now  we  see. 
A  marked  instance  of  this  apathy  and  reaction  has  been 
afforded  by  the  attitude  of  the  "  Progressive  "  candidates  for  the 
School  Board  for  London  at  the  late  election  in  regard  to  the 
"Compromise"  which  admits  of  religious  teaching  in.  the 
public  Board  schools.  When  this  Compromise  was  arranged 
in  the  House  of  Commons,  seven-and-twenty  years  ago,  1  well 
remember  that  the  advanced  party,  in  and  out  of  Parliament, 
was  most  indignant,  and  denounced  the  whole  arrangement  as 
a  scandalous  breach  of  faith  aod  betrayal  to  the  enemy.  To- 
day, a  generation  later,  the  representatives  of  the  same  party 
cling  to  that  Compromise  as  a  sacred  trust,  and  vilify  Socialists 
as  wild  revolutionaries  because  they  have  the  audacity  to 
declare  that  the  State  or  Municipal  schools  should  have 
nothing  whatever  to  do  with  teaching  the  Bible  as  a  religious 
book.  Apart  from  the  return  of  Parliamentary  candidates, 
matters  are  a  little  better  in  the  Provinces  so  far  as  regards  the 
return  of  Socialists  on  local  bodies.  But  it  is  questionable 
whether,  in  spite  of  appearances,  London  as  a  whole  is  much 
behind  the  cities  of  the  north ;  whether  indeed  Socialism  will 
pot  obtain  its  first  serious  victories  in  England  in  London. 


32  COSMOPOLIS. 

Now,  it  certainly  cannot  be  said  that  Great   Britain  is  so 
fortunate  in  its  social  arrangements  at  the  present  time  that 
the  workers  require  less  attention  here  than  elsewhere  from 
the  standpoint  of  Socialism.   Notwithstanding  the  vast  increase 
of   wealth   during   the  past   five-and-twenty   or  thirty  years, 
the  condition  of   the  mass  of   the  people  has  assuredly  not 
improved  in  anything  approaching  the  same  ratio.     Though 
wages  are  on  the  whole  higher  for  the  better  class  of  workers, 
and  the  purchasing  power  of  these  wages  is  greater  than  it  has 
ever  yet  been,  there  is  now^adays  no  longer  so  much  need  as 
there  was  twenty  years  ago  to  point  out  that,  as  a  set-off  to  this 
improvement,  vast  masses  of  our  city  populations  live  in  a 
condition  of  deplorable  miser>%  and  that  even  the  "  respectable 
poor  "  are  very  badly  off.     Such  facts  as  that  4,000,000  out  of 
our  population  receive  charity  in  one  shape  or  another  during 
the  year  ;  that  twenty-five  per  cent,  of  the  people  die  either  in 
the  workhouse,  the   pauper  lunatic  asylum,  or  the  hospital  ; 
that  the  deterioration  in  the  physique  and  general  development 
of  the  dwellers  in  our  cities  is  the  matter  of  constant  complaint 
and  regret  upon  the  part  of  doctors  and  others ;  that  at  least 
55,000  children,  according  to  middle  class  testimony,  go  to 
school  breakfastless   in    London,  without   reference  to  those 
who,  being  half-fed,  are  almost  equally  unable  to  take  advan- 
tage of  the  teaching  provided,  and  that  the  state  of  things  in 
other  great   cities   is   not   much    better ;  that  the  periods  of 
stagnation  and  out-of-work,  with  their  consequent  uncertainty 
and  starvation  for  thousands,  come  more  frequently  and  last 
longer  w^en   they  come ;   that  the   over-crowding   and   con- 
sequent lack  of  fresh  air  or  opportunities  for  healthy  exercise 
is  everywhere  becoming  more  serious,  in  spite  of  efforts  made 
in   Glasgow  and  other  great  cities   to  cope  with  this  crying 
evil  ;  that  the  people  have  been  swept  by  economical  causes, 
including    the    injurious    policy   of    the    railways,   from   the 
country   districts    into    the    towns ;    and    that    we    now   are 
dependent  on   foreign  sources   for  our  food   supplies  to  the 
extent   of    ;^' 1 50,000,000   annually — these   facts,    I    say,   thus 
briefly  summed  up,  show  clearly  that  the  need  for  a  powerful 
Socialist  party  to  stir  up  thought  and  compel  action  on  behalf 
of  the  people  in  a  collective  sense  is  nowhere  more  obvious 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE    FUTURE   OF   ENGLAND.  33 

than  in  the  leading  capitalist  country  of  the  world.  The 
physical  and  mental  deterioration  of  the  mass  of  our  city 
population  alone  requires  immediate  and  continuous  attention 
in  the  interest  of  the  whole  community,  if  the  majority  of  the 
nation  is  not  soon  to  consist  of  a  mass  of  anaemic  degenerates. 

No  greater  contrast  can  be  imagined  than  that  daily 
presented  by  the  physical  development  of  the  upper  and 
middle  classes  and  the  physical  decay  of  large  masses  of  the 
workers.  The  young  men  and  young  women  of  the  well-to- 
do  section  of  our  society  are  splendid  specimens  of  humanity 
— certainly  much  finer,  taken  all  round,  than  their  fathers  and 
mothers  were  before  them.  The  average  weight  of  the  crews 
rowing  in  the  University  race  at  Putney  has  increased,  for 
instance,  no  fewer  than  nine  pounds  per  man  during  the  last 
thirty  years  ;  an  extraordinary  increase,  accompanied  by  at 
letist  a  proportionate  physical  improvement  in  the  students 
not  so  specially  endowed.  In  every  sport  and  pastime  the 
records  of  past  champions  are  lowered  with  ease  ;  while  at  the 
same  time  the  length  of  life  yearly  increases  as  measured  by 
the  tables  of  the  actuaries,  and  the  enjoyment  of  existence  has 
certainly  not  diminished.  Compare  all  this  healthy  growth 
witli  the  statistics  of  working  class  physical  deterioration  as 
given  in  by  certifying  surgeons,  recruiting  sergeants,  dis- 
pensary doctors,  and  district  visitors,  and  it  is  quite  clear 
that  we  have  little  reason  to  congratulate  ourselves  upon  any 
great  general  improvement.  Mere  averages  in  such  matters 
are  proverbially  misleading  ;  but  it  is  noteworthy  that  Mr. 
Charles  Booth,  who  began  his  researches  into  London  poverty 
with  a  view  to  refuting  the  "  exaggerations "  of  Socialists  like 
myself,  proved  conclusively  by  his  exhaustive  investigations 
that  we  had  greatly  understated  the  squalor  of  the  conditions 
in  which  hundreds  of  thousands  of  the  London  workers  exist. 
Similar  careful  inquiry  in  the  great  cities  of  the  North  of 
England  and  Scotland  would  give  similar  results. 

But  if  the  effect  of  capitalist  domination  in  Great  Britain 
to-day  is  to  stunt  the  physical,  moral,  and  intellectual  develop- 
ment of  an  increasing  proportion  of  the  population  ;  if  in 
public  education,  and  in  care  for  our  children  in  other  respects, 

we  are  falling  behind  France,  Germany,  and  even  America  ;  if 
VOL,  IX. — so.  XXV  3 


34  COSMOPOLIS. 

the  infamous  half-time  system  is  still  allowed  to  flourish,  to  the 
permanent  injury  of  the  rising  generation,  in  spite  of  inter- 
national protest  ;  then  it  can  scarcely  be  honestly  contended 
that  the  well-being  of  the  individual  citizen,  upon  which   so 
much  stress  is  laid  in  some  quarters,  is  best  secured  by  allowing 
all  individuals  (children  included)  to  shift  for  themselves  in 
order  to  secure  the  survival  of  the  fittest.     The  fittest  to  survive 
in  our  slums,  and  even,  to  some  extent,  in  the  better  working- 
class  districts,  are  the  physically  unfit  to  carry  on  the  most 
important  duties  of  the  community.     In  such  circumstances 
the   extension  of   the  sphere  of  collective  action  becomes  a 
necessity,  in  order  to  secure  that  higher  standard  of  citizenship 
which  can  alone  develop  the  individual,  and  at  the  same  time 
strengthen  the  nation. 

II. 

1  have  said  that  the  Continental  Socialists,  as  a  rule,  are 
surprised  at  the  slow  progress  which  Socialism  is  making  in 
England,  and  are  quite  at  a  loss  to  account  for  it.  The  reasons 
for  falling  behind  are  not  far  to  seek  ;  though  in  order  to 
admit  them  as  correct  we  must  throw  over  the  arguments  and 
predictions  of  the  leaders  of  Socialist  thought  of  five  and 
twenty  or  thirty  years  ago.  It  is  manifestly  not  true  that  the 
earlier  development  of  capitalism  of  necessity  entails,  in  the 
community  which  has  led  the  way  in  this  respect,  the  earlier 
development  of  organised  Socialism.  On  the  contrary,  the 
complete  capitalist  predominance  in  industrial  England  has 
been  the  main  cause  of  the  reactionary  attitude  of  the 
workers  at  the  present  time.  The  principal  reasons  of  our 
lack  of  rapid  success,  so  far,  in  England,  may  thus  be 
summed  up  : — 

(i)  Three  generations  of  capitalist  supremacy,  during  which 
the  working  class  of  Englishmen  have  become  accustomed  to 
regard  themselves  as  city  wage-earners,  and  nothing  more, 
have  crippled  their  capacity  for  rising  above  their  surroundings. 
By  about  the  year  1870  nearly  all  traces  of  Chartism,  Owenism, 
or  any  advanced  movement  in  a  social  sense  had  died  down. 
The  ideas  of  obtaining  possession  of  the  land,  machinery,  and 
distributive  agencies  for  the  benefit  of  the  whole  communitv, 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE  OF  ENGLAND.  35 

which  were  quite  common  during  tlie  revolt  against  capitaUsm 
in  the  first  half  of  the  century,  had  altogether  faded  from  men's 
minds.  Until  the  commencement  of  the  Socialist  propaganda 
by  the  Social-Democratic  Federation  in  1881  and  1882,  there 
was  literally  no  active  movement  among  the  people  in  favour 
of  an  improvement  in  their  conditions  of  life. 

(2)  Inferior  education  has  left  the  mass  of  Englishmen  in- 
capable of  the  mental  vigour  and  alertness  which  are  necessary 
to  understand  and  apply  the  principles  of  Socialism.  Every- 
thing which  does  not  come  easily  within  the  scope  of  their 
superficial  knowledge  is  regarded  by  them  as  no  concern  of 
theirs.  They  want  what  is  immediate,  practical,  economical. 
In  fact,  the  English  workers  as  a  whole  are  imbued  with  all  the 
views  and  prejudices  of  the  third-rate  middle  class. 

(3)  Political  economy  as  taught  in  the  public  schools  has 
been  entirely  devoted  to  the  spread  of  shopkeeper  and 
profitmonger  ideas  of  the  arrangements  proper  for  any  given 
society. 

(4)  Religious  teaching  and  religious  organisations  have 
resolutely  kept  in  view  the  subordination  of  the  workers  to 
their  superiors  in  the  matter  of  wealth.  Religion  and  cant, 
hypocrisy  and  respectability,  have  more  influence  in  Great 
Britain  than  anywhere  else  in  the  world. 

(5)  The  apathy  and  indifference — the  most  formidable  allies 
of  reaction — engendered  in  our  great  cities  by  insufficient 
food,  bad  clothing,  wretched  housing,  and  impure  air.  A  large 
proportion  of  our  population  is  so  low  down  that  it  does  not 
appreciate  or  complain  of  its  own  degradation.  Poverty  below 
a  certain  level  inevitably  breeds  reaction.  The  very  poor  don't 
even  care  to  vote  at  a  School  Board  election  in  favour  of  the 
interests  of  their  own  children.  Coals  and  blankets  in  the 
winter,  systematically  distributed,  and  subscriptions  to  local 
clubs  of  one  sort  or  another,  have  bought  constituency  after 
constituency  for  members  of  the  House  of  Commons.  Im- 
mediate needs  outweigh  every  prospect  of  future  advantage. 
They  have,  too,  a  ludicrous  and  misplaced  sense  of  dignity. 
"What  do  you  mean  by  calling  this  a  slum,  mister  ?"  called 
out  one  of  the  listeners  when  a  Socialist  was  holding  forth  in 
perhaps  the  most  miserable  district  of  all  London  ;  "  I  lives 


36  COSMOPOLIS. 

here."     Similar  cases  have  often  occurred  elsewhere.     What 
hope  is  there  of  people  like  that  ? 

(6)  The  great  Trade  Union  organisations  have  formed,  as 
Bronterre  O'Brien  predicted  they  would  form,  an  aristocracy 
of  labour,  which  until  within  the  last  few  years  has  had  little  in 
common  with  the  mass  of  the  working  population,  and  in  no 
sense  hitherto  have  the  Unions  acted  as  leaders  of  the  whole 
mass  of  toilers,  as  their  Socialist  comrades  have  on  the  Con- 
tinent. The  influence  of  skilled  Unionists  up  to  quite  a  recent 
date  has  indeed  been  actually  reactionary  in  many  directions, 
standing  as  obstacles  in  the  path  of  organised  Socialism. 

(7)  Our  political  forms  are,  as  already  said,  a  hundred  years 
at  least  behind  our  economic  development.  The  governing 
classes  have  very  cleverly  given  the  people  the  appearance  of 
democracy,  but  have  carefully  hedged  the  concessions  round 
by  so  many  limitations  and  restrictions  that  the  control  is  still 
absolutely  in  the  hands  of  the  great  landlords  and  capitalists. 

(8)  The  aristocracy  here  is  much  more  astute  than  the 
aristocracy  on  the  Continent,  and  this  applies  also  to  the 
governing  class  generally.  A  policy  of  repression  has  been 
given  up  for  nearly  fifty  years.  A  policy  of  acceptance  and 
postponement,  and  purchase  of  active  working  class  leaders, 
has  been  adopted  instead.  Great  interest  is  pretended  to  be 
taken  in  all  matters  of  social  reform ;  Royal  Commissions  are 
appointed  which  examine,  report,  and  adjourn,  and  do  nothing  ; 
charitable  agencies  and  five-per-cent.  philanthropic  companies 
are  established,  and  thus  the  sting  is  taken  out  of  any  agitation, 
so  that  the  system,  with,  of  course,  its  hideous  accompanying 
degradation,  may  "  last  our  time." 

(9)  The  capitalist  newspapers,  instead  of  vehemently  backing 
the  capitalist  interests,  which  they  really  represent,  advocate 
all  so-called  "moderate"  reforms,  flatter  those  working-class 
leaders  who  are  in  no  way  dangerous,  and  resolutely  boycott 
the  Socialist  movement  in  every  way. 

That  Socialism  should' have  been  able  to  make  headway  in 
Great  Britain,  notwithstanding  all  these  obstacles  and  without 
funds,  is  surely  evidence  of  the  soundness  of  our  principles. 
If  our  advance  has  been  slow,  it  has  undoubtedly  been  sure. 
Moreover,  it  can  no  longer  be  contended  that  there  is  any  of 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE   OF   ENGLAND.  yj 

the  iittraction  of  novelty  in  the  matter.  We  have  been  at  work 
in  Great  Britain  now  for  just  seventeen  years  ;  for  in  January, 
1881,  it  may  truly  be  said  that  there  was  no  Socialist  organisa- 
tion and  scarcely  any  Socialist  propaganda  of  any  kind  in 
Great  Britain.  Not  only  so,  but  there  was  practically  no 
Socialist  literature.  The  old  orthodox  or  classical  political 
economy  held  the  field  almost  unchallenged.  Laissez-faire  and 
Free  Trade  were  still  the  doctrines  of  both  political  parties  : 
the  impulse  given  by  the  Factory  Act  agitation  having  spent 
its  force.  Though  John  Stuart  Mill  proclaimed  himself  a 
Socialist  in  his  autobiography,  Socialism  was  regarded  by  the 
educated  and  uneducated  alike  as  a  sort  of  fad  which  had  a 
terrible  side  to  it  in  the  tremendous  fanaticism  that  made  most 
of  its  adherents  enemies  of  society  and  of  the  human  race. 
The  frightful  scenes  which  wound  up  the  brief  existence  ol 
the  Commune  of  Paris  were  still  regarded  by  most  Englishmen 
from  the  point  of  view  of  M.  Thiers  and  the  Versailles  troops, 
as  being  the  natural  outcome  of  Socialism  and  Communism. 
As  to  the  English  Trade  Unions,  they  were  as  much  opposed 
to  Socialism  as  were  the  middle-class  vestries,  the  House  of 
Commons,  and  the  Churches.  The  less  the  members  under- 
stood about  it  the  more  hostile  they  were.  It  was  all  that 
Adam  Weiler,  the  German  cabinet-maker,  could  do  to  get  a 
hearing  when,  year  after  year,  with  a  courage  and  persistence 
which  will  ever  do  honour  to  his  memory,  he  brought  forward 
his  resolution  in  favour  of  an  eight  hours'  day,  and  tried  to  put 
a  little  Socialism  into  the  heads  of  his  fellow  delegates.  As 
with  the  skilled  so  with  the  unskilled  labourers,  they  were 
wage-earners  first,  last,  and  altogether.  Socialism  had  no  root 
in  their  past,  and  no  prospect  of  influencing  their  future. 

What  a  change  to-day.  Two  vigorous  and  well-organised 
Socialist  bodies — the  Social-Democratic  Federation  and  the 
Independent  Labour  Party  —  daily  coming  closer  to  one 
another,  have  active  branches  in  every  large  town  and  repre- 
sentatives on  local  boards  throughout  the  country.  Go  where 
you  will,  Socialists  are  to  be  found  who  work  cordially  with 
the  older  or  the  younger  of  these  two  organisations,  or  with 
both.  In  addition,  the  Fabian  Society,  which  still  exercises 
some  influence  on  the  middle  class,  the  Labour  and  Brother- 


38  COSMOPOLIS. 

hood  Churches,  and  small  separate  societies  in  various  centres 
are  engaged,  at  any  rate,  in  sapping  the  old  economic  and 
political  opinions.  A  complete  library  of  Socialist  books  and 
pamphlets  has  been  created  in  the  English  language,  and  any 
student  can  now  acquire  a  thorough  knowledge  of  our  theories 
and  principles  in  our  own  tongue.  Poets  and  professors, 
artists  and  authors,  men  of  science  and  men  of  business, 
engineers,  architects,  and  decorators  of  the  highest  distinction 
are  all  openly  proclaiming  themselves  Socialists  ;  that  is  to  say, 
men  who  are  in  favour  of  the  ownership  and  control  of  the 
great  wealth-producing  forces  of  modern  society  by  the 
community  at  large.  Even  the  newspapers  cannot  keep  clear 
of  the  subject,  and  phrases  first  made  use  of  by  Socialist 
writers  have  become  the  commonplaces  of  leading  articles  and 
of  ordinary  conversation.  The  Church  has  followed,  as  usual, 
the  general  popular  current,  and,  apart  from  avowed  Christian 
Socialists — of  whom  there  is  a  considerable  number — many  of 
the  clergy  are  adopting  Socialist  palliatives  as  essential  to 
check  the  deterioration  which  they  see  going  on  around  them; 
while  no  less  important  a  personage  than  the  Bishop  of 
Durham  declared,  in  one  of  his  addresses,  that  capitalism  was 
by  no  means  the  last  stage  in  the  history  of  human  develop- 
ment. 

Among  the  workers  the  general  change  of  tone  and  thought, 
though  not  as  yet  of  action,  is  quite  as  remarkable.  True,  they 
have  not  yet  broken  loose  from  the  ties  of  the  old  bourgeois 
factions  and  their  outworn  shibboleths,  in  the  matter  of 
political  voting ;  but  in  their  general  attitude  towards 
Socialism  a  marked  change  of  front  can  be  noted.  At  the 
annual  Trade  Union  Congress  the  old  reactionary  element — 
the  Mawdsleys,  the  David  Holmes,  the  Pickards — have  found 
it  quite  impossible,  even  by  the  enactment  of  new  and  arbitrary 
rules  of  exclusion,  to  prevent  the  Socialists  from  capturing 
each  successive  Congress  ;  and,  so  far  as  voting  goes,  it  is  not 
too  much  to  say  that  the  great  majority  of  the  delegates  of  the 
"  aristocracy  of  labour "  are  now  committed  to  the  Socialist 
programme.  The  advance  cannot,  of  course,  be  traced  so 
clearly  as  this  among  the  unorganised  and  unskilled  workers, 
but  the  impossibility  of  getting   any  opposition  to   Socialist 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE   OF   ENGLAND.  39 

doctrines  from  the  largest  audiences,  either  in  or  out  of  doors, 
proves  clearly  which  way  the  tide  is  setting.  Even  the  old 
notion  that  Socialists  are  necessarily  the  party  of  destruction 
has  been  exploded,  and  many  who  do  not  at  all  share  our 
general  opinions  now  speak  of  the  class  war,  which  they 
formerly  referred  to  in  tones  of  horror,  as  being  a  necessity 
of  present  social  conditions. 

Thus,  though  the  evidence  of  the  spread  of  Socialism  in 
England  does  not  as  yet  appear  to  the  extent  which  might 
reasonably  be  expected  in  the  ballot-boxes  either  at  Parlia- 
mentary or  municipal  elections,  it  cannot  be  disputed  that  the 
whole  of  English  society  is  permeated  with  Socialist  ideas,  and 
that  the  liquefied  theories,  so  to  say,  might  at  any  moment  crys- 
tallise into  a  really  powerful  Socialist  party  in  response  to  a 
shock  from  without. 

III. 

Meanwhile,  the  unconscious  development  which  must,  as  we 
hold,  eventually  bring  with  it  ^Socialism,  whether  we  wish  it  or 
not,  is  proceeding  apace.  The  growth  of  monopoly  in  the 
shape  of  huge  non-competing  companies  has  not  as  yet  attained 
the  same  proportions  in  the  United  Kingdom  that  it  has  in  the 
United  States,  where  nearly  every  great  industry  has  been 
"  cornered  "  or  "  combined  "  into  a  Trust.  But  matters  here 
have  progressed  much  further  in  this  direction  already  than  the 
people  at  large  are  at  all  aware  of.  On  the  railways,  to  begin 
with,  competition  between  different  companies  to  the  same 
point  has  been  quite  given  up  both  for  freight  and  passengers. 
This  great  monopoly  of  transport  holds  the  agriculture  and 
trade  of  Great  Britain  in  its  grip,  and  a  few  boards  of  directors, 
by  their  excessive  charges  for  freight  of  all  kinds,  and  their 
discriminating  rates  for  imported  goods,  constitute  the  heaviest 
system  of  protection  in  favour  of  the  foreigner  that  the  world 
has  ever  seen.  Moreover,  the  State  has  actually  encouraged 
and  helped  on  the  growth  of  this  vast  monopoly,  by  permitting 
the  railway  companies  to  acquire  and  crush  their  only  possible 
competitors,  the  canals.  To  such  an  absurd  point  has  this 
favouritism  of  a  private  monopoly  of  the  great  highways  of  the 
vskmd  been  carried,  that  the  Government  itself  is  now  in  more 


40  COSMOPOLIS. 

than  one  instance  sending  its  own  supplies  and  parcels  by  road 
to  their  destination,  this  being  cheaper  than  their  conveyance 
by  rail.  Even  under  existing  economic  conditions  the  non- 
competing  railway  companies  are  a  curse  to  the  industry  of 
the  people,  no  important  improvement  being  possible  as  things 
stand. 

Again,  in  the  domain  of  shipping,  "  rings  "  of  shipowners  are 
the  rule  rather  than  the  exception.  Competition  here,  as  with 
the  railways,  is  practically  at  an  end  between  competing  lines 
or  companies  to  the  same  port.  The  Eastern  trade,  the  Cape 
trade,  the  Australian  trade,  and  to  an  ever-increasing  extent  the 
American  trade,  are  all  in  the  hands  of  monopolists  who  with 
their  heavy  weight  of  capital  can  crush  any  would-be  compe- 
titors by  carrying  at  cost  or  even  at  a  loss  for  a  time. 

In  industry  the  like  tendency   to  abandon  competition  in 
favour  of  combination  and  monopoly  may  every  where  be  seen. 
The  price  of  coal  in   the  great  cities  is  no   longer  a  matter  of 
competition.     It  is  settled  by  a  "ring"  of  producers  and  dis- 
tributors ;  and  the  coal-owners iind  coal-factors  arecontinuallv 
combining  in  the  form  of  larger  limited  companies  to  curtail 
further  the  competition  which  still  exists,  and  to  wipe  out  the 
smaller  men.     The  iron  industry  affords  examples  of  the  same 
movement.      Such    firms   as    Armstrong's    and    Whitworth's, 
Vickers,   and   the   great   shipbuilding   works   of    Barrow   and 
Maxims  have  already  combined,  and  still  greater  schemes  of 
combination  are  on  foot.     Even  now  there  is  no  free  market 
in  steel  or  iron  rails.     A  "ring"   has  been  formed  which  fixes 
the  price,  and  the  orders  which  may  come  into  the  market  are 
divided  up  among  the  combined  firms  at  this  agreed  rate.  Here 
it  may  be  observed  America,  Belgium,  and  Germany  have  cut 
in    and   undersold   the   English  rail  ring  in    the  open  world 
market.     But  even    international  competition,  as  Mr.  Joseph 
Chamberlain  showed  us  in  the  screw  trade,  need  not  neces- 
sarily  be   permanent.     When   the   principle   of   combination 
against   the    public   demand    is    once    admitted,    instead    of 
competition    for  the  public  supply,  a  few  thousand  miles  of 
water  will  not  long  interfere  with  arrangements  that  may  seem 
beneficial  to  the  new  monopolists. 

But  from  the  national  standpoint  alone  it  is  clear  that  every 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE   OF   ENGLAND.  4 1 

increase  in  the  amount  of  capital  necessary  to  carry  on  a  pro- 
ductive business  with  success  in  any  given  department,  tends 
in  favour  of  larger  and  larger  combinations  of  competing  firms, 
and  renders  it  possible  for  these  great  companies,  when  once 
formed,  to  close  the  field  to  newcomers,  or  smaller  producers, 
by  selling  at  unprofitable  rates  for  a  time.  This  growth  has 
been  observable  of  late  in  the  sewing  cotton  industry,  where 
the  great  combination  of  Coats,  Clarke,  and  Jonas  Brooks  has 
forced  a  number  of  minor  manufacturers  into  a  similar 
common  understanding,  with  ultimately,  no  doubt,  the  inten- 
tion of  coming  to  terms  with  the  Paisley  firms  originally 
federated,  and  thus  controlling  the  entire  market.  And  so  I 
might  go  on,  in  the  fields  of  production  and  distribution  alike, 
showing  the  growth  of  national  industrial  combination  as 
against  the  free  competition  which  is  still  supposed  to  exist  by 
superficial  economists.  At  the  present  moment,  besides  the 
instances  given,  there  is  no  free  market  in  antimony,  no  free 
market  in  nickel,  no  free  market  in  mercury,  no  free  market  in 
lead  pipes,  no  free  market  in  the  fish  supply,  no  free  market 
in  petroleum,  and  so  on  and  so  on.  In  fact,  we  free  English- 
men are  ringed  and  rounded  up  by  a  set  of  industrial  and 
commercial  monopolists,  whose  operations  pass  at  present 
quite  unchallenged,  and  for  the  most  part  unnoticed. 

The  very  men,  however,  who  declaim  most  strongly  against 
any  organisation  of  industry  and  distribution  in  the  hands  of 
the  community  for  the  general  benefit  are  stone  blind  to  the 
drawbacks  arising  from  these  vast  "  trustifications,"  to  use  an 
Americanism,  against  the  common  good.  Clearly  the  outlet 
for  individual  initiative  and  energy  is  quite  as  much  circum- 
scribed by  these  great  monopolist  combinations,  with  their 
hundreds  of  thousands  or  millions  of  dependent  and  per- 
manent wage-earners,  as  it  could  possibly  be  by  any  system 
of  employment  in  a  series  of  public  departments  ;  without  the 
advantages  in  every  direction  which  such  public  services  would 
offer  to  the  public  servants,  who  would  then  comprise  the 
entire  adult  community. 

At  any  rate,  the  result  of  this  growth  of  combination  and 
"trustification"  has  been  to  bring  the  employers  in  every 
trade  closer  and  closer  together.     The  industrial  combination 


42  COSMOPOLIS. 

against  the  public  consumers  brings  with  it  a  class  combina- 
tion against  the  private  wage-earners,  or  actual  producers. 
The  Trade  Unions,  and  the  workers  generally,  have  no  longer 
to  face  individual  employers  in  any  industry,  but  a  solid  federa- 
tion of  employers.  In  the  United  States  not  a  single  successful 
strike  has  been  seen  during  the  past  ten  years  in  any  "  trusti- 
fied "  industry.  Our  engineers,  unfortunately,  had  not  watched 
the  signs  of  the  times  when  they  began  their  short-sighted 
attack  upon  individual  employers  in  the  London  district.  Nor 
is  this  combination  of  employers  to  resist  the  demands  of  their 
men  by  any  means  confined  to  the  engineering  trade.  The 
railway  directors,  the  shipping  managers,  the  coal-owners,  the 
cotton-spinners  and  weavers,  the  wool  manufacturers,  and  so 
on,  are  all  coming  together  and  making  common  cause  against 
the  "  hands  "  in  their  respective  trades.  Only  public  opinion 
and  the  fear  of  the  intervention  of  Parliament  compels  the 
masters  to  agree  to  conference  or  arbitration.  They  feel  them- 
selves strong  enough  to  win  in  the  long  run  if  the  State  will 
only  confine  itself  to  a  policy  of  non-intervention.  The  rapid 
improvements  in  automatic  machinery,  and  the  impossibility 
of  competition  on  a  small  scale,  are,  on  the  one  hand,  weaken- 
ing the  highly  skilled  trades,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  securing 
the  permanence  of  the  masters'  position  under  the  existing 
system.  Strikes  henceforth  are  as  hopeless  as  they  have 
always  been  ruinous.  Yet  the  complete  domination  of  the 
masters  cannot  be  beneficial. 

The  concentration  of  the  strength  of  the  masters,  however, 
is  leading  inevitably  to  the  concentration  of  the  strength  of  the 
workers.  Already  the  talk  of  a  federation  of  trades  and  of 
political  action  through  the  ballot-box  is  beginning  to  take  a 
practical  shape.  Home  combination  and  foreign  competition 
are  teaching  even  the  ignorant  and  apathetic  English  workers 
a  sharp  lesson.  On  all  sides,  quite  aside  from  the  organised 
Socialists,  the  admission  is  being  made  that  the  old  methods 
of  warfare  against  the  employing  class  are  worthless  ;  and 
before  very  long  the  most  reactionary  of  the  wage-earners 
above  the  level  of  semi-starvation  and  anaemic  apathy  will  be 
forced  to  use  their  political  power  to  secure  their  social 
emancipation  ;  and  that  this  can  only  be  brouj^ht  about  by 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE  OF  ENGLAND.  43 

collective  and  communal  action  is  scarcely  disputed  now,  even 
by  our  opponents.  The  State,  which  has  been  compelled  to 
interfere  in  order  partially  to  protect,  must  be  pushed  on  to 
organise  in  order  to  secure  the  full  personal  development  of 
the  mass  of  Englishmen  against  the  callous  irresponsibility 
of  boards  of  directors  and  shareholders,  and  to  control  the 
monopolies  in  the  interest  of  the  entire  population. 

Already  also  municipalities,  impelled  by  the  necessities  of 
the  case  and  the  Socialist  agitation,  are  beginning  to  act  in  a 
collective  sense.  Though  the  provision  and  the  control  of  gas, 
water,  tramways,  schools,  parks,  libraries,  baths  and  washhouses, 
coffee-houses,  warmed  refuges,  &c.,  by  local  councils  do  not 
in  any  sense  involve  Socialism,  seeing  that  the  employees  of  the 
municipality  are  still  paid  very  poor  wages  ;  nevertheless,  each 
step  taken  in  the  direction  of  such  partial  collectivism  is  a 
lesson  in  public  as  against  private  or  company  administration, 
and  to  some  extent  reduces  the  distance  which  we  have  to 
traverse  before  we  attain  the  full  stage  of  a  co-operative 
commonwealth.  The  growing  tendency  for  even  avowedly 
reactionary  bodies,  like  the  Corporation  of  the  City  of  London, 
to  produce  articles  for  their  own  use,  the  revolt  against  the 
employment  of  contractors  as  middlemen,  as  well  as  the  pay- 
ment by  public  functionaries  of  a  rate  of  wages  measured  in 
some  degree  by  a  fair  standard  of  life  for  the  recipients,  instead 
of  by  the  extent  to  which  it  may  be  possible  to  trade  upon  the 
necessities  of  the  workers,  are  all  evidences  of  the  general 
movement  in  a  Socialist  direction  where  municipal  matters  are 
involved  ;  in  the  same  way  that  the  extensions  of  the  Factory 
Acts,  the  Health  Acts,  the  Compensation  for  Injury  Acts,  the 
Education  Acts,  and  the  Adulteration  of  Food  Acts,  are  mani- 
fest recognitions  that  the  State  has  other  duties  than  those  of 
merely  national  defence,  or  of  making  profits  out  of  performing 
public  services.  Nevertheless,  all  these  changes  are,  in  the 
main,  unconscious  gropings  towards  Socialism  as  the  consoli- 
dation of  the  two  sides  of  the  great  class  struggle  already 
referred  to.  The  danger,  so  far  as  Great  Britain  is  concerned, 
is  that  causes  without  or  within  may  bring  about  the  downfall 
of  the  present  industrial  system  before  the  people  at  large  have 
been  educated  sufficiently  to  appreciate  what  is  taking  place 


44  COSMOPOLIS. 

around  them,  or  to  organise  their  methods  of  production  and 
distribution  on  a  new  basis. 

IV. 

There  are  some  SociaHsts  who  contend  that  the  duty  of 
active  workers  in  the  movement  is  to  confine  themselves  to 
pointing  out  the  facts  of  modern  economic  and  social  develop- 
ment to  the  mass  of  the  people,  refraining  altogether  from 
endeavouring  to  chart  out  a  definite  policy  for  the  future. 
There  are  others  again  who,  regardless  of  the  truth  that  nearly 
all  the  most  important  work  of  Socialism  has  been  done  by 
men  of  the  well-to-do  classes,  continually  urge  that  the  workers 
can  only  be  emancipated  by  the  workers  themselves.  It  is 
certain,  however,  that  in  social  affairs,  as  in  other  branches  of 
human  thought  and  action,  no  great  advance  can  be  beneficially 
made  without  some  knowledge  of  what  it  is  that  we  are  striving 
to  attain.  And  it  is  equally  certain  that  no  economically 
enslaved  class  has  ever  yet  been  freed  by  the  action  of  its  own 
members  alone.  If  Socialists  are  necessarily  democrats,  and 
proclaim  themselves  Social-Democrats,  this,  therefore,  arises  not 
from  any  profound  confidence  in  the  wisdom  of  the  mass  of 
the  people,  who  in  existing  conditions  are  too  apathetic  or  too 
ignorant  to  understand  what  will  benefit  them  ;  but  because  it 
is  quite  impossible  to  have  a  genuine  co-operative  common- 
wealth without  educated  Socialists,  and  the  dangers  of  even  a 
partially  educated  democracy  seem  to  be  less  than  those  which 
must  be  encountered  under  a  Ca?sarism  or  a  bureaucracy — the 
only  possible  alternatives. 

In  England,  consequently,  the  first  duty  of  all  Socialists  is 
to  check  the  physical  degeneration  which  is  going  on,  especially 
in  our  great  cities  ;  to  improve  the  whole  system  of  public 
education  while  extending  the  age  of  compulsor}'  attendance 
at  school  ;  and  to  completely  democratise  our  national,  muni- 
cipal, and  other  institutions,  so  that  the  entire  people  may 
directly  control  the  government  and  administration  of  the 
country,  centrally  and  locally. 

To  check  the  physical  (and  consequently  moral  and  intel- 
lectual) deterioration  which  all  deplore,  and  at  the  same  time 
to   bring  about?  that  better  attendance   at   school  which    the 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE   OF   ENGLAND.  45 

conservative  Sir  John  Gorst  himself  declares  is  essential,  three 
steps  are  absolutely  necessary  to  begin  with  : — 

(1)  State  maintenance  of  the  children  in  all  Board  schools 
up  to  the  age  of  sixteen,  and  the  removal  of  the  schools  as  far 
as  possible  into  the  country. 

The  objections  to  these  proposals  are  (a)  that  if  parents 
were  thus  relieved  of  the  cost  of  keeping  their  children  the 
country  would  soon  become  over-populated ;  (6)  that  the 
children  would  be  pauperised  ;  (c)  that  the  cost  would  be 
excessive  and  ruinous ;  (d)  that  it  would  be  a  monstrous 
interference  with  the  responsibility  of  the  parents  for  their 
children. 

To  these  objections  it  may  fairly  be  replied  that  the  power 
of  man  to  produce  wealth  now  increases  far  more  rapidly  than 
any  increase  of  population  known  ;  that,  besides,  well-fed 
populations  notoriously  increase  less  rapidly  than  ill-fed  ;  that 
all  children  are  dependent  on  others  for  their  food — certainly 
the  children  of  the  rich  are,  and  they  are  not  pauperised — 
while  the  children  of  those  who  produce  the  wealth  of  the 
country  and  support  the  other  classes  are  worthy  of  special 
consideration  ;  that  the  expense  of  feeding  and  clothing  would 
be  economical  if  it  stopped  degeneracy,  emptied  the  work- 
houses, gaols,  and  lunatic  asylums,  and  provided  the  nation 
with  vigorous,  capable  men  and  women  ;  that  in  any  case  the 
antagonistic  argument  on  the  score  of  expense  is  really  one  in 
favour  of  leaving  the  children  untended,  putting  aside  the  fact 
that  much  of  the  expense  is  even  now  most  inefficiently 
incurred  in  private  families ;  that  the  State-  has  already 
seriously  interfered  with  parental  authority  and  responsibility, 
and  compels  parents  to  send  their  children  to  schools  over 
which  they  have  virtually  no  control,  and  in  which  the 
sanitary  conditions  are  not  always  by  any  means  what  they 
ought  to  be  ;  that  also  it  is  sheer  waste  to  provide  education 
for  half-starved  or  ill-fed  children  at  the  public  expense,  and 
is  grossly  unfair  to  the  teachers  into  the  bargain.  In  short, 
free  maintenance  of  children  is  the  necessary  complement  to 
free  education  ;  both  being  essential  to  the  well-being  of  the 
community  and  to  be  demanded  as  a  right,  not  doled  out  as 
charity.     That  the  children  cannot  as  individuals  secure  for 


46  COSMOPOLIS. 

themselves  that  full  subsistence  which  is  essential  in  childhood 
'  needs  no  demonstration  even  to  those  who  talk  about  pauper 
children.  With  respect  to  their  being  educated  as  far  as  pos- 
sible in  the  country  instead  of  in  the  cities,  no  one  who  has 
compared  the  physical  appearance  of  workhouse  or  truant 
children  brought  up  in  a  good  workhouse  or  truant  school 
in  the  country  *  with  that  of  the  children  of  quite  respectable 
parents  brought  up  in  the  cities  can  have  any  doubt  as  to  the 
need  for  this  change  likewise,  in  the  interest  of  the  country  at 
large  as  well  as  of  the  children  themselves  as  individuals. 

(2)  The  suppression  by  law  of  all  half-time  work,  or  work 
for  wages,  by  children  up  to  the  age  of  sixteen.  This  is  now 
universally  admitted  as  desirable.  The  physical  and  moral 
deterioration  brought  about  by  the  employment  of  half-timers 
is  the  constant  theme  of  doctors  and  teachers  alike.  The  only 
opponents  of  this  preservative  measure  are  the  employers  who 
want  cheap  child  labour,  and  the  greedy  and  short-sighted 
parents  who  sweat  their  own  children  at  the  cost  not  only  of 
the  children's  health,  but  of  keeping  down  their  own  rates  of 
wages  by  the  competition  of  these  babes. 

(3)  Improved  homes  for  the  people  built  at  public  cost,  and 
outside  the  present  city  areas,  with  plenty  of  air,  parks,  gardens, 
and  pleasure  grounds.  There  is  no  need  to  argue  in  favour  of 
this.  The  utter  failure  of  municipal  or  individual  effort  to 
cope  with  the  crying  evil  of  overcrowding  and  high  rents  in 
our  great  cities  is  obvious  to  all ;  but  no  attempt  has  been 
made  to  deal  with  the  question  seriously  by  national  and  local 
effort   combined.    The  report  of  the  Royal   Commission   of 


•  It  is  important  to  state  that  "truant  school&  "  in  connection  with  the  Board 
schools,  where  boys  who  won't  go  to  school  are  kept  and  clothed  and  fed  in  the 
country,  are  very  popuhir  with  the  truants.  The  boys  will  play  truant  again  and 
again*in  order  to  be  sent  back  to  them.  I  venture  to  suggest  that  schools  which 
smart,  active,  "  naughty  "  boys,  such  as  truants  generally  are,  wish  to  go  to  must 
be  schools  which  are  pretty  well  managed  in  the  interest  of  the  children,  even  if 
the  discipline  be  rather  strict,  and  that  we  might  do  much  worse  than  apply  the 
same  treatment  to  the  unlucky  good  boys  who  don't  play  truant.  Unfortunately, 
the  whole  question  of  education  and  physical  training  is  regarded  in  Grirat 
Britain  from  the  sordid  point  of  view  of  the  ratepayers,  many  of  whom  grudge 
every  penny  spent  in  this  way.  The  matter  is  one  of  the  vei*y  highest  national 
moment  in  every  sense,  and  the  necessary  charges  for  the  public  schools  should 
be  thrown  upon  the  national  exchequer.  Until  this  is  done  no  great  improve- 
ment, I  fear,  will  be  brought  about. 


SOCIALISM  AND  THE   FUTURE  OF  ENGLAND.  47 

1880,  seventeen  years  ago,  has,  like  nearly  all  such  reports, 
remained  useless  for  any  practical  purpose. 

(4)  Improved  education,  which  shall  not  be  mere  book 
instruction,  with  a  material  diminution  of  the  numbers  of  the 
children  to  be  taught  by  one  master  or  one  mistress.  No 
teacher  can  adequately  handle  more  than  thirty  children,  at 
the  outside,  at  one  time.  Yet  classes  of  seventy  and  eighty 
are  still  quite  common.  In  such  improved  education  as  is 
advocated,  leading  from  the  Board  Schools  up  to  the  Uni- 
versities, it  is  clear  that  general  industrial  and  manual  training, 
as  well  as  instruction  in  agriculture,  must  form  an  important 
feature  in  the  curriculum  if  half-time  is  to  be  abolished.  The 
advantage  of  such  manual  and  agricultural  training  as  giving 
aptitude  for  work  in  all  trades  has  been  proved  conclusively, 
alike  on  the  Continent,  in  this  country,  and  in  the  United 
States  of  America.  It  is  a  necessary  preliminary  to  the  more 
definite  technical  training  which  must  follow.  So  far  manual 
training  has  been  most  narrowly  and  inefficiently  taught  in 
our  public  schools. 

There  are  other  matters  of  detail  which  might  be  insisted 
upon.  But  if  the  matter  were  regarded  from  the  standpoint 
of  wide  national  interest,  and  the  suggested  measures  were 
carried  at  once,  the  physical  degeneration  of  the  mass  of  the 
people  would  be  arrested,  and  the  next  generation  of  English- 
men and  Englishwomen  would,  as  a  whole,  be  equal  to  the 
duties  which  they  will  be  called  upon  to  perform.  At  any 
rate,  to  continue  to  enlarge  upon  the  glories  of  the  Empire 
abroad,  and  to  spend  yearly  about  ;^40,ooo,ooo  to  defend  these 
shores  from  invasion  and  our  commerce  and  colonies  from 
attack,  while  permitting  the  people  at  home  to  deteriorate, 
seems  to  "  wild  Socialists  "  a  piece  of  ruinous  folly,  even  from 
the  "practical"  standpoint  of  the  Imperial  policy.  We  claim 
that  the  most  important  and  useful  application  that  can  be 
made  of  the  collective  national  power  is  to  develop  the 
faculties  of  each  individual  of  the  community  to  the  highest 
extent.  A  nation  whose  citizens  were  thus  physically  and 
intellectually  trained  would  have  little  reason  to  fear  any 
attempts  upon  its  independence. 

At  the  present  time  the  State  is  by  far  the  greatest  employer 


48  COSMOPOLIS. 

ot  labour  in  the  United  Kingdom.  The  Post  Office,  parcel 
post,  telegraphs,  savings  banks,  arsenals,  dockyards,  clothing 
establishments,  factories,  and  public  offices  employ  men  and 
women  in  vast  numbers,  with  as  little  regard  for  their  general 
well-being  as  if  the  State  were  itself  a  greedy  private  employer, 
or  an  unscrupulous  limited  company.  Absence  of  competition 
and  reasonable  pensions  are  the  rule  in  all  the  higher  grades 
of  the  public  services ;  relentless  competition  and  absence  of 
pensions  are  the  rule  in  most  of  the  lower  grades.  The  Post 
Office  actually  makes  a  profit  for  the  well-to-do  taxpayers  of 
between  ;^'3,ooo,ooo  and  ^^4,000,000  a  year  out  of  the  overwork 
and  underpay  of  its  wage-earning  servants.  Some  little  im- 
provements have  been  made  in  regard  to  rates  of  payment  and 
hours  of  work,  owing  to  Socialist  agitation  inside  and  outside. 
But  still,  the  idea  of  the  chief  officers  of  the  Post  Office,  from 
the  Duke  of  Norfolk  or  Mr.  Arnold  Morley  downwards,  is  that 
the  public  service  ought  to  take  advantage  of  the  poverty  of  its 
wage-earners,  and  that  the  main  object  of  this  great  public 
department  should  be  to  do  the  lower  work  as  cheaply  as 
possible.  Against  this  we  Socialists  strongly  protest.  The 
public  services  of  every  kind  ought  to  be  regarded,  not  as  a 
portion  of  the  great  capitalist  sweating  machine,  but  as  national 
agencies  for  the  organisation  of  each  department  for  the 
common  good.  There  is  absolutely  no  reason  why  the  Post 
Office,  dockyards,  arsenals,  &c.,  should  not  form  the  nucleus 
of  a  great  co-operative  organisation,  in  which  the  two  main 
considerations  should  be  the  general  well-being  of  the  em- 
ployed and  their  supply  with  food,  clothing,  and  houseroom 
at  cost ;  and  the  efficiency  of  the  services  themselves.  Neither 
can  be  assured  in  any  way  by  the  methods  now  in  vogue, 
which  engender  permanent  disaffection  and  encourage  bad 
service  by  the  payment  of  starvation  wages  and  overwork.  It 
is  absolutely  necessary  that  the  State  should  set  an  example  to 
other  employers,  and  lead  the  way  in  its  services  to  the 
replacement  of  wage-slavery  by  co-operative  effort,  if  the 
coming  reconstruction  is  to  be  carried  out  peacefully  and 
beneficially  for  all.  In  this  case  there  is  no  economic  difficulty 
whatever  to  be  encountered,  and  that  State  work  can  be  per- 
formed quite  as  efficiently  as  the  work  outside  is  conclusively 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE   OF   ENGLAND.  49 

proved,  even  under  existing  unsatibfactory  conditions,  by  the 
admirable  vessels  rapidly  turned  out  from  the  Government 
dockyards. 

It  is  necessary  to  insist  upon  the  gross  injustice  of  our 
arrangements  in  regard  to  the  employees  in  the  public  service, 
because  this  is  used  as  an  argument  against  any  extension  of 
the  public  ownership  and  control  over  monopolies,  even  by 
many  of  the  workers  themselves.  When,  however,  the  public 
services  are  placed  upon  an  equitable  footing,  the  extension  of 
the  system  will  gradually  gain  the  support  of  the  whole 
working  class,  and  constitute  an  important  advance  towards 
reconstruction  on  a  co-operative  basis. 

The  next  step  in  this  direction  is  the  nationalisation  of  the 
railways.  That  measure  has  been  advocated  by  Socialists 
actively  for  nearly  twenty  years  ;  but  it  may  be  said  that  from 
the  date  of  the  construction  of  the  first  railway  in  England  in 
1830  far-seeing  men  protested  against  the  handing  over  these 
important  communications  to  private  companies.  Recent 
works  by  the  late  Mr.  Charles  Hole,  Mr.  Clement  Edwards, 
and  others,  have  proved  in  detail  that  nothing  short  of  com- 
plete ownership  by  the  nation  can  relieve  the  country  from 
the  drawbacks  of  private  ownership  of  its  public  highways. 
Some  of  these  drawbacks  have  been  referred  to  above.  When 
things  have  come  to  such  a  pass  that,  owing  to  the  heavy 
charges  made  by  the  companies,  Canada,  New  Zealand,  and 
the  West  of  America  are  within  the  thirty-mile  radius  of 
London  as  reckoned  by  freight  ;  that  ores  and  manufactured 
articles  can  be  sent  to  and  from  German  and  Belgian  iron- 
works to  port  at  one-third  the  cost  in  proportion  to  distance 
that  similar  freight  is  transported  in  Great  Britain  ;  that  goods 
sent  from  foreign  countries  are  hauled  on  English  railroads  at 
about  half  the  rates  charged  for  native  stuff ;  that,  as  I  pointed 
out  to  the  Royal  Labour  Commission,  I  can  get  a  cask  of  lager 
beer  delivered  in  London  from  St.  Louis  (1,200  miles  by  rail 
and  3,000  miles  by  water),  for  less  money  than  1  can  obtain 
the  carriage  of  a  sack  of  potatoes  from  Devizes — all  this  being 
so,  it  is  clear  that,  even  from  the  capitalist  point  of  view, 
all  is  not  for  the  best  in  the  best  of  railway  managements 
possible.     The  truth  of  this  is  now  seen  by  many  who  are 

VOL,  IX.— NO.  XXV.  4 


*5t)  COSMOPOLl^. 

opposed  to  collective  action  in  other  directions,  and  the 
Railway  Nationalisation  Society  is  supported  by  able  and 
influential  men  on  both  sides  in  politics. 

On  what  basis  the  railways  should  be  reacquired  by  the 
people  from  their  temporary  owners  is,  of  course,  a  matter  for 
discussion ;  but  whatever  arrangements  may  be  necessary  do 
not  affect  the  principle  of  such  reacquisition.  Nowadays  the 
railways  are  run  solely  for  the  profit  of  the  shareholders, 
regardless  of  the  interests  of  the  people  at  large,  and  the  men 
employed  on  them  are  underpaid  and  overworked,  and  treated 
with  an  almost  utter  disregard  of  the  safety  of  life  and  limb, 
by  the  boards  of  directors.  Now  the  change  of  the  railway 
companies'  system  of  Great  Britain  into  a  public  department 
on  the  same  lines  as  those  advocated  above  for  the  Post  Office 
would  entirely  transform  our  ideas  as  to  freight  and  passenger 
traffic.  The  railways  would  become,  like  the  high-roads,  an 
essential  portion  of  the  veins  and  arteries  of  the  whole  country. 
Their  machine-shops  and  steamers,  their  carriage  factories  and 
coal  properties  would  come  under  public  ownership  and 
control  as  a  portion  of  one  gigantic  co-operative  concern. 
Through  their  agency,  when  handled  from  the  point  of  view 
of  public  advantage,  not  only  would  the  employees  be  much 
better  oflf  in  all  respects  than  they  are  to-day,  but  the  transfer 
of  schools  and  people's  dwellings  into  the  country,  the  re- 
organisation of  agriculture  on  a  co-operative  basis,  and,  in  the 
long  run,  the  final  removal  of  the  antagonism  between  town 
and  country,  would  become  possible.  The  working  out  of 
this  problem,  like  that  of  the  arrest  of  the  physical  deteriora- 
tion of  our  city  population,  which  it  will  greatly  aid,  is  a 
matter  of  immediate  pressing  necessity.  From  the  Socialist 
point  of  view,  the  socialisation  of  the  railways  ought  to  be 
the  next  great  advance  in  the  reconstruction  of  our  anarchic 
society. 

Coal  mines  can  scarcely  be  regarded  as  less  of  class 
monopoly  than  railways.  "A  necessary  of  industry  ought 
not  to  be  placed  at  the  mercy  of  private  owners,"  said  to 
me  one  of  the  largest  manufacturers  in  the  North  of  England, 
assuredly  no  Socialist,  at  the  time  of  the  last  great  pitmen's 
strike*     Just  so.     But  the  only  possible  way  of  avoiding  the 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE   OF  ENGLAND.  51 

mischiefs  incident  to  private  ownership*  is  by  public  control. 
That  here,  again,  there  is  no  economic  difficulty  of  any  serious 
magnitude  to  be  found  is  manifest  from  the  fact  that  nearly 
all  the  great  coal  properties  to-day  are  owned  by  vast  public 
companies  or  large  individual  owners ;  and  that  the  acquisi- 
tion of  these  properties  by  the  nation,  and  their  management 
as  a  public  estate  for  the  benefit  of  the  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  men  employed  and  the  public  at  large,  would  be  no  more 
than  an  extension  and  transformation  of  the  existing  injurious 
monopoly  into  an  integral  part  of  the  national  property.  The 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  coal-miners  will  not  have  that 
jealousy  of  democratic  national  ownership  which  afflicts  the 
mind  of  the  individual  middle-class  profitmonger,  when  they 
learn,  as  they  are  learning,  that  such  a  national  co-operative 
system  as  it  will  lead  to  cannot  fail  to  secure  better  conditions 
of  existence  for  themselves  and  their  children. 

The  same  arguments  apply  to  the  cotton  and  iron,  the  wool, 
silk,  and  other  industries.  As  already  pointed  out,  in  each  and 
all  of  these  departments  of  production  the  tendency  is  towards 
larger  and  larger  combinations  of  irresponsible  shareholders, 
in  the  form  of  limited  companies  with  managers,  in  place  of 
the  old  system  of  individual  firms.  From  the  point  of  view  of 
the  employed,  the  absorption  of  these  industries  by  the  collec- 
tive agency  of  the  whole  people  can  scarcely  fail  to  be  an 
improvement ;  while  it  will  surely  be  as  much  to  their  interest 
to  select  capable  organisers  and  superintendents  in  the  future 
as  it  is  to  the  interest  of  the  absentee  shareholders  at  the 
present  time  to  do  so.  The  economic  difficulties  in  the  way 
of  the  suggested  transformation  are  becoming  daily  less  ;  and 
with  improved  education  and  a  more  thorough  comprehension 
of  the  national  advantages  to  be  derived  from  the  substitution 
of  co-operation  for  competition  in  every  direction — an  end 
now  at  last  attainable  and  being  prepared  for  outside  of  our 
direct  volition — ^the  entire  people, will  rise  to  the  level  of  their 
opportunities,  and  refuse  to  drift  any  longer  when  collective 
judgment  and  capacity  may  make  us  masters  of  our  destinies 
as  individuals.  In  the  distributing  agencies  of  shops,  ware« 
bouses,  advertising,  &c.,  the  enormous  amount  of  wasted  and 
useless    labour,    as    matters    stand,   strikes    every   intelligent 


52  COSMOPOLIS. 

observer.  Here,  alscT,  when  production  and  distribution  are 
equally  regarded  from  the  standpoint  of  the  interest  of  the 
whole  community,  and  the  abrogation  of  bootless  toil  is  looked 
upon  as  an  absolute  duty,  advantage  will  be  taken  of  the 
obvious  course  of  development,  in  the  shape  of  huge  so-called 
co-operative  establishments  and  stores  crushing  out  the  small 
distributors  and  middlemen,  to  organise  municipal  and  national 
distributing  centres  throughout  the  country.  For  such 
agencies  a  demand,  indeed,  is  already  arising.  Adulteration 
and  articles  of  inferior  quality  also  will  disappear  from  the 
market  when,  all  being  interested  in  the  production  of  the  best 
sort  of  goods,  there  will  be  no  profit  to  be  made  by  trickery 
and  swindling.  The  gradual  but  rapid  replacement  of  compe- 
titive anarchy  by  municipal  and  national  organisation  will  of 
itself  prepare,  and  is  indeed  already  preparing,  men's  minds  for 
the  change  of  system. 

The  question  of  agricultural  land  presents  a  far  more  difficult 
problem  in  Great  Britain  than  is  presented  by  any  of  the 
matters  discussed  hitherto,  and  is  indeed  far  more  difficult  of 
solution  here  than  in  perhaps  any  other  country.  Our  popula- 
tion is  no  longer  settled  upon  the  land,  and  there  are  now  but  a 
few  hundred  thousand  agricultural  labourers  in  the  island.  See- 
ing that  tliree  or,  at  the  outside,  four  continuous  generations  of 
city  life  greatly  enfeeble  or  almost  entirely  destroy  the  vigour  of 
a  working-class  family,  this  depopulation  of  the  country  districts 
and  crowding  into  the  city  areas  is  a  very  serious  matter  indeed 
to  the  nation.  Our  recruiting  ground  for  the  weai*  and  tear 
of  our  working  city  life  has  been  practically  cut  away,  and 
there  is  no  longer  a  country-bred  race  to  fill  up  the  gaps 
created  by  the  increased  pressure  of  modern  commercialism. 
Land  going  out  of  cultivation  on  every  side,  while  our 
dependence  on  foreign  sources  of  food  supply,  from  land  of 
by  no  means  superior  quality  in  many  cases,  increases  every 
year  :  this  is  a  state  of  things  which  demands  immediate  and 
careful  consideration  with  a  view  to  prompt  action.  The 
Royal  Commission  on  the  subject  has  proved  as  useless  as  all 
other  Royal  Commissions.  Its  members  never  even  tried  to 
go  to  the  bottom  of  the  question.  That  Protection  will  not 
put  things  right  can  easily  be  seen  by  anyone  who  chooses  to 


SOCIALISM   AND  THE   FUTURE   OF   ENGLAND.  53 

examine  into  the  condition  of  agriculture  in  countries  where 
Protection  prevails.  That  small  holdings  will  not  help  us  is 
proved  conclusively  by  the  decay  of  the  small  proprietors 
elsewhere  in  nearly  all  departments  of  agriculture.  That  even 
nationalisation  of  railways  and  cheap  freights  will  not  of 
themselves  suffice  to  turn  the  tide  can  also  be  detected  by 
experience  in  districts  which  have  both.  Yet  a  nation  w^hich 
is  divorced  from  agriculture  is  in  a  very  dangerous  position  ; 
while,  in  time  of  war,  what  our  condition  might  be  when 
deprived  even  temporarily  of  our  supplies  from  without  is 
something  frightful  to  contemplate.  The  subject  is  too  large 
a  one  to  discuss  adequately  now.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  the 
organisation  of  co-operative  production  upon  the  land  must  go 
hand  in  hand  with  the  like  development  in  other  directions, 
though  it  is  much  more  difficult  than  similar  organisation  in 
factory  industry  and  distribution,  owing  to  the  fact  that 
agriculture  has  not  yet  attained  the  company  form.  Agri- 
culture being  made  a  portion  of  education  in  all  schools  mUvSt 
no  longer  be  completely  severed  from  other  occupations. 
The  improvements  in  modes  of  communication  render  this 
segregation  unnecessary  as  it  is  in  many  respects  harmful. 
Labour  on  the  land,  lightened  as  it  already  is  by  the  appli- 
cation of  machinery,  may  be  alternated  with  labour  in 
other  departments.  The  organisation  of  the  unemployed 
might  well  be  conducted  on  such  a  plan  as  was  proposed 
many  years  ago  by  the  Social-Democratic  Federation,  and 
every  advance  in  the  direction  of  co-operative  supply  of  public 
departments  from  native  farms  and  market  gardens  would 
help  to  bring  about  that  partial  emigration  from  the  cities  to 
the  land  which  is  so  desirable  in  the  interests  of  the  physical 
development  of  our  population. 

Every  measure,  therefore,  which  is  advocated  or  adopted  in 
modification  of  our  existing  system  should  be  in  the  direction 
of  the  national  absorption  of  monopolies  and  the  organisation 
of  co-operative  production  and  distribution  throughout  the 
country.  Anything  short  of  this  simply  means  reaction  in  dis- 
guise. As  matters  stand  the  very  powers  to  create  wealth  which 
mankind  possess  as  a  whole  are  heading  back  the  emancipation 
of  the  real  producers ;    the  growth  of  monopoly  under  the 


54  COSMOPOLIS 

pretence  of  free  competition,  and  the  cramping  influences  of 
our  miserable  city  life  for  the  poor,  do  but  engender  an  apa- 
thetic wage-slave  class.  If  all  were  content  with  a  standard  of 
life  not  inferior  to  that  enjoyed  by  the  well-to-do  middle  class 
to-day,  and  none  shirked  their  fair  share  of  social  responsibility, 
not  four  hours  of  healthy  work  for  the  service  of  the 
community  would  be  necessary,  and  this  standard  might  be 
raised  and  the  limit  of  necessary  labour  reduced  with  each 
successive  improvement  in  scientific  processes.  There  is  no 
evidence  whatever  that  even  a  minority  of  well-fed  and  well- 
educated  Englishmen  are  skulkers,  any  more  than  there  is 
evidence  to  that  effect  in  the  case  of  other  nationalities.  We 
have  arrived  at  the  period  in  our  history  when  a  new 
departure  is  inevitable.  We  English  Social-Democrats  are 
anxious  that  this  fresh  start  should  be  made  by  an  intelligent 
and  well-organised  democracy. 

V. 

The  same  principles  which  apply  to  our  home  industries 
and  domestic  life  will  necessarily  be  brought  to  bear  on  our 
external  interests,  and  the  administration  of  our  Empire.  Our 
great  oversea  carrying  business,  for  example,  can  scarcely  fail 
to  come  under  more  direct  national  control  and  ownership  as 
time  goes  on,  and  the  action  of  even  subsidised  lines  of  steamers 
in  joining  "  rings,"  spoken  of  above,  together  with  their  indiflfer- 
ence  to  national  welfare  in  regard  to  their  treatment  of  sailors, 
cannot  fail  to  hasten  on  the  period  when  these  services  will  be 
regarded  as  fulfilling  a  public  function  which  can  no  longer 
be  left  in  private  hands. 

If  also  we  demand  justice  and  emancipation  from  class  domi- 
nation at  home,  so  we  necessarily  look  to  put  an  end  to 
militarism  and  race  oppression  in  the  interest  of  the  money- 
getting  class  abroad.  Those  who  control  an  Empire  which 
comprises  one-seventh  of  the  habitable  area  of  the  globe,  and 
one-fifth  of  its  total  population — exclusive  of  China,  one-third 
— ought  to  be  able  to  rise  to  a  higher  conception  of  what  such 
a  responsibility  involves  than  the  shoddy  Imperialism  which  now 
passes  muster  as  patriotism.  Our  self-governed  Colonies  can 
in  time  shake  themselves  clear  of  the  capitalist  chain  which 


SOCIALISM   AND   THE    FUTURE   OF   ENGLAND.  55 

now  binds  them,  while  entering  into  closer  relations  with  us  at 
home,  on  the  basis  of  the  mutual  welfare  of  both  the  connected 
peoples.  Such  ties  as  these,  between  free  and  equal  men  of 
the  same  race  in  different  parts  of  the  world,  Social-Democracy 
cannot  fail  to  bind  closer.  But  the  ruin  wrought  in  India  by 
draining  away  its  wealth  to  Great  Britain  without  return  should 
teach  even  the  most  careless  that  real  greatness  and  prosperity 
cannot  exist  where  the  interests  of  successive  relays  of  foreign 
administrators  are  preferred  to  the  well-being,  and  even  the 
lives,  of  millions  of  human  beings  under  our  control.  What 
India  might  have  been  we  can  form  some  idea  of  when  we 
look  at  the  prosperity  of  the  native  states  under  our  light 
supervision.  What  India  will  be  when  natural  causes  and  the 
awakening  of  the  English  democracy  force  a  cessation  of 
the  existing  system  of  bleeding  to  death  upon  our  Govern- 
ment, it  is  possible  to  imagine  when  we  see  the  rapidity  with 
which  Japan  has  developed  into  a  great  power,  and  is  begin- 
ning to  face  and  to  attempt  to  solve  the  same  serious  economic 
and  class  issues  which  trouble  us. 

In  Africa,  as  well  as  in  Asia,  the  supposed  necessities  for 
extended  markets,  real  enough  indeed  under  existing  cir- 
cumstances, are  bringing  tropical  regions,  which  we  cannot 
colonise,  under  capitalist  authority,  and  dooming  some  of 
the  finest  uncivilised  races  in  the  world  to  a  mean  form  of 
slavery  to  the  white  man — as  at  Kimberley  and  Johannesburg 
in  Natal  and  Rhodesia — far  worse  and  more  degrading  in  the 
long  rim  than  the  tribal  slavery  from  which  we  claim  to  have 
relieved  them.  In  all  these  matters  we  English  Social- 
Democrats  claim  that  same  full  freedom  for  others  which  we 
demand  for  ourselves.  Let  us  aid  these  populations  to  work 
out  their  own  material  salvation,  not  by  chaining  them  to  the 
car  of  the  hypocritical  slave-driver  and  pious  profitmonger, 
not  by  poisoning  them  with  gin  and  disease,  but  by  leading 
them,  through  the  mild  and  steady  influence  of  capable  and 
sympathetic  men  and  women  who  understand  their  history 
and  customs,  to  the  highest  material  level  that  is  attainable 
along  the  lines  of  their  own  natural  development.  Our  only 
rightful  claim  to  pre-eminence  is  that  we  may  help  those  at  a 
lower  stage  of  culture  to  attain  more  rapidly  than  would  other- 


56  COSMOPOLIS. 

wise  be  possible  to  a  superior  human  existence,  without  the 
drawbacks  which  have  unfortunately  attended  our  own 
advance. 

All  attempts  to  organise  Socialism  in  any  one  nation  spread 
naturally  into  a  combination  with  other  nations  that  are  work- 
ing in  the  same  direction.  Socialism,  as  I  said  to  start  with, 
becomes  more  and  more  international  every  day.  This  does 
not  mean  that  Social -Democrats  cease  to  be  patriotic,  but  that 
they  refuse  to  regard  their  own  patriotism  as  necessarily 
antagonistic  to  the  patriotism  of  others.  At  the  present  time 
millions  of  workers  in  France,  Germany,  and  Belgium  have 
ceased  to  regard  the  workers  of  Great  Britain,  with  whom 
they  daily  compete  in  the  field  of  industrial  warfare,  as  in  any 
sense  their  enemies.  They  recognise  that  the  great  problems 
which  lie  ahead  of  them  as  of  us,  can  only  be  solved  by  joint 
effort  and  international  organisation.  Nationalist  competi- 
tion, which  is  the  weapon  of  the  capitalist,  they  would  gladly 
abandon  to-morrow  in  favour  of  international  co-operation, 
which  is  the  safety  of  the  worker.  Already  the  time  is  ripe 
for  common  action  in  many  directions,  already  the  demo- 
cracies of  Europe  are  beginning  to  refuse  to  obey  the  com- 
mands of  their  self-seeking  rulers  as  they  have  done  hitherto, 
and  to  afford  such  help  as  they  can  to  one  another  in  time  of 
trouble.  The  end  of  the  nineteenth  century  witnesses  on 
both  sides  of  the  Atlantic  the  steady  organisation  of  the  pro- 
letariat for  the  conquest  of  the  control  of  industry,  nationally 
and  internationally,  and  it  is  scarcely  possible  that  the  first 
half  of  the  coming  century  will  pass  away  without  seeing 
the  victory  in  great  part  won. 

Much  depends  upon  England  as  to  how  far  that  beneficent 
advance  shall  be  hastened  or  retarded.  For  the  moment  we 
are  not  holding  the  place  which  of  right  we  should  hold  in 
the  progress  of  the  peoples  towards  the  goal  which  lies  im- 
mediately ahead.  But  the  period  of  apathy  cannot  much 
longer  endure.  To  the  ideal  of  Imperial  domination,  military 
rule,  and  capitalist  supremacy,  which  reactionists  find  so  allur- 
ing, we  Socialists  continually  oppose  our  far  higher  ideal  of 
a  co-operative  commonwealth  that  shall  bind  together  first  our 
own  colonies,  and  then  all  civilised  peoples,   by  the   ties  of 


SOCIALISM   AND   THE   FUTURE    OF   ENGLAND.  57 

mutual   advantage,   common   freedom,   and    the    hope   of    a 
general  and  rapid  advance  to  a  glorious  future  for  mankind. 

The  personal  selfishness  and  class  greed  which  now  blind 
the  eyes  of  the  majority  to  the  infinitely  greater  enjoyment  of 
life  that  everyone  might  secure  under  ever-improving  economic 
conditions  by  common  action  with  their  fellows,  will  grow 
into  the  enlightened  selfishness  which  recognises  that  only 
when  the  whole  community  is  completely  educated,  and  all  are 
emancipated  by  collective  effort  from  needless  and  irksome 
toil,  can  the  faculties  of  each  individual  attain  their  highest  de- 
velopment, and  thus  in  turn  benefit  the  society  to  which  they 
are  indebted  for  their  training.  Then  will  the  series  of  easy 
and  untrammelled  delights  of  human  existence  in  this  beau- 
tiful world  be  generally  appreciated  in  the  course  of  a  full 
and  active  life.  Socialism,  so  far  from  repressing  individual 
capacity  and  individual  initiative,  will  for  the  first  time  afford 
them  the  freest  possible  outlet.  There  is  nothing  in  the  per- 
formance of  light  social  duties,  agreed  to  and  accepted  by  all, 
which  could  stunt  the  intelligence  or  enfeeble  the  physique 
of  any. 

To-day  millions  of  men  and  women  in  every  civilised  coun- 
try are  shut  out  from  doing  the  work  for  society  which  they 
are  most  competent  to  do,  and  live  a  life  of  perpetual  penal 
servitude,  by  reason  of  the  squalid  necessity,  imposed  by  con- 
ditions inherited  from  the  past,  of  performing  exhaustive  labour 
day  after  day,  in  order  that  they  may  merely  continue  to  exist. 
They  remain  overmastered  by  the  very  power  of  the  engines 
which  they  tend  ;  to  produce  wealth  and  the  pleasures  of  living 
for  the  mere  enjoyment  of  life  remain  unknown  to  them, 
because  the  conception  of  what  they  themselves  might  achieve 
as  a  portion  of  an  ordered  society  has  not  yet  burst  in  upon 
their  minds.  But  the  economic  forms  are  all  ready,  the  ideas 
are  spreading  from  man  to  man,  the  combinations  entered 
upon  for  repression  are  preparing  the  way  to  enfranchisement. 
Even  under  the  pressure  of  class  domination,  and  amid  the 
hurly-burly  of  class  struggles,  the  greatest  and  best  work  that 
has  ever  been  done  in  the  world  has  been  done  for  the  family, 
the  clan,  the  tribe,  the  city,  the  nation.  Those  deeds  which 
have  elevated  and  enlightened  mankind   in  every  department 


58  COSMOPOLIS. 

of  human  knowledge  and  effort  have  never  been  done  for 
greed  of  gain.  They  have  been  achieved  by  individuals 
who  have  deliberately  devoted  their  highest  powers,  and  have 
given  up  the  most  precious  years  of  their  life,  to  secure  better 
and  more  beautiful  conditions  of  existence  for  those  among 
whom  that  life  was  spent.  The  social  forces  of  the  near  future 
will  give  a  yet  more  powerful  stimulus  to  this  higher  side  of 
our  common  human  nature  on  a  still  more  exalted  level;  and  I 
for  one  can  imagine  no  nobler  mission  for  England  than  that 
she  should  bear  her  full  share  in  the  conscious  endeavour  to 
transform  the  chaotic  conditions  of  to-day  into  the  ordered 
and  happy  harmony  of  to-morrow. 

H.  M.  Hyxdmax. 


NOTES  ON  NEW  BOOKS. 


A  GREAT  flood  of  new  books  has  been  poured  forth  since  the 
autumn  days  when  one  novel  held  sole  sway.  With  the 
best  will  in  the  world  I  cannot  honestly  say  that  the  alien 
amateur  of  English  literature  will  find  much  with  which  he 
need  become  familiar.  The  most  important  book  is  Lord 
Tennyson's  "  Life,"  by  his  son.  It  is  apt  to  confirm  the 
opinions  of  M.  Taine,  in  his  well-known  comparison  between 
Tennyson  and  Alfred  de  Musset.  The  great  French  poets  of 
the  century,  one  presumes,  are  Hugo,  Musset,  Lamartine,  and 
Gautier.  Of  the  four,  the  life  of  Tennyson  (with  great 
differences)  was  least  unlike  that  of  Th6ophile.  Hugo  and 
Lamartine  were  not  only  poets,  but  men  of  affairs,  conversant 
with  active  politics.  Tennyson  was,  indeed,  much  interested 
in  politics,  home  and  foreign,  but  he  never  interfered  per- 
sonally. He  wrote  patriotic  verses,  of  which  the  ode  on  the 
death  of  the  Duke  of  Wellington  was  beyond  comparison  the 
best,  as  poetry.  His  war-songs  never  seem  really  successful, 
to  myself,  though  very  popular,  because  he  was  aiming  at  a 
robust  rudeness  which  was  not  within  even  his  wide  range. 
"  Balaklava  "  is  not  on  a  level  with  "  Mary  Ambree,"  "  Otter- 
burn,"  Scott's  "Flodden,"  Drajrton's  "Agincourt,"  or  even 
Campbell's  "  Mariners  of  England."  The  "  Revenge "  does 
better  in  Raleigh's  prose  than  in  Tennyson's  verse.  He 
encouraged  the  good  idea  of  Englishmen  standing  by  English- 
men the  world  through,  for  blood  is  thicker  than  water. 
Otherwise  he  did  not  influence,  and  he  made  no  personal 
attempt  to  influence  public  life,  as  Hugo  and  Lamartine  did, 
wisely  or  not  wisely.     Nothing  could  be  less  like  his  life  than 


6o  COSMOPOLIS. 

\fiisset's  feverish  pursuit  of  the  ideal  in  various  feminine 
avatars,  and  his  researches  in  artificial  paradises.  On  the 
whole,  Tennyson's  lifelong  devotion  to  his  art  reminds  one 
more  of  Gautier's  existence  than  of  anything  in  the  three  other 
French  poets.  Both  men  had  an  exquisite  sense  of  the  value  of 
words,  and  there  are  more  pieces  which  remind  one  of  Tenny- 
son in  "Emaux  et  Cam6es"  than  in  any  other  modern  French 
poetry.  But  Tennyson,  after  many  years  during  which  poverty 
was  his  bride,  attained  and  deserved  a  leisure  which  was 
denied  to  Theophile. 

In  a  career  and  character  nobly  devoted  to  noble  ends,  no 
blemish  appears  but  that  of  too  intensely  sensitive  self- 
consciousness.  The  poet  retained  many  qualities  of  the  child, 
of  the  rather  spoiled  child,  in  spite  of  his  massive  manhood. 
The  advocatus  diaboli  can  discover  no  other  charge  against 
him.  He  might  utter  a  freakish  speech,  or  seem  undesirably 
blimt,  in  the  first  hours  of  an  acquaintance :  that  was  probably 
a  form  of  shyness  in  a  man  who  was  the  butt  of  every  kind  of 
Jdihettx,  It  would  be  superfluous  to  criticise  his  poetry,  of 
which  the  marvel  is  that,  being  so  good,  it  became  so 
popular.  Probably  this  was  the  result  of  such  things 
as  his  "  May  Queen,"  and  other  gently  obvious  pieces, 
while  his  comparatively  optimistic  philosophy  and  un- 
shaken faith  were  not  without  their  influence.  He  wns 
a  visionary  Jis  well  as  a  poet,  he  "  followed  the  gleam  "  ;  he 
never  despaired.  These  qualities,  partly  moral,  partly  mystical, 
and  the  sentiment  of  his  "  Miller's  Daughter,"  which  does  not 
overstrain  the  intellect,  won  for  him  a  general  favour  not  to 
be  gained  by  his  "  Lotus  Eaters  "  or  "  Mariana,"  or  lines  on 
Virgil,  or  whatever  of  his  may  most  please  the  raffing.  So  he 
carried  ofi^  every  vote,  and  had  something  admirable  in  its  kind 
for  every  taste.  Surely  he  was  the  most  various  of  all  our 
poets  since  Shakespeare,  while  his  true  self  was  most  akin  to 
that  of  Virgil.  His  tact  in  suppression  is  proved  by  the 
hitherto  unpublished  pieces  now  given  to  the  world.  The 
biography  may  seem  to  need  condensation,  but  we  cannot 
justly  blame  it  for  "  want  of  focus."  Lord  Tennyson  never  set 
out  to  be  the  critic  of  his  father,  nor  to  gratify  the  gossips  with 
such   anecdotes  as    are   common    enough    in   oral   tradition. 


NOTES   ON   NEW   BOOKS.  6l 

Doubtless  much  might  have  been  said  which  is  not  said,  but, 
in  the  poet's  words  : — 

Whatever  record  leap  to  light, 
He  never  shall  be  shamed. 

His  was  "  the  white  flower  of  a  blameless  life,"  as  far  as 
mortal  may  be  blameless.  His  relations  with  Thackeray,  the 
Brownings,  and  other  authors  do  one  good  to  dwell  upon.  A 
happy  life  was  the  poet's,  crowned  by  a  beautiful  end.  Few 
biographies  give  clearer  evidence  of  the  immediate  and,  as 
it  were,  fatal  character  of  genius.  Even  in  some  very  early 
boyish  pieces,  there  are  signs  of  the  peculiar  and  personal  note, 
the  new  and  fairy  music  which  was  born  with  Tennyson. 
Nothing  can  be  less  like  Coleridge's  magical  blossoming  out 
of  a  clever  and  uninspired  style  of  the  eighteenth  century  into 
"  Kubla  Khan."  Except  when  under  Byron's  influence  for  a 
year  or  two  of  boyhood,  Tennyson  was,  from  first  to  last, 
his  true  self.  But  whether  that  true  self,  that  incommunicable 
charm,  can  ever  be  felt  by  readers  of  poetry  not  written  in  their 
native  language,  is  a  question  hard  to  answer.  Tennyson  is  a 
poet  who  would  lose  almost  everything  in  translations,  of 
which — 

Cassez-vous,  casscz-vous,  cassez-vous, 
O  iiier,  sur  vos  froids  gris  cailloux, 

may  be  called  a  favourable  specimen,  though  not  on  a  level 
with  Mr.  Lushington's  version  of  "  Crossing  the  Bar "  in 
Greek. 

Captain  Trotter's  "  Life  of  John  Nicholson  "  suffers  both  from 
the  accidental  destruction  of  original  papers,  and  from  the 
fact  that  readers  of  the  many  books  on  the  Indian  Mutiny 
have  picked  up  a  great  deal  of  what  is  to  be  said  about  this 
born  leader  of  men.  Tennyson  was  not  more  a  poet  by  birth 
than  Nicholson  was  a  soldier  and  administrator.  Brave  as 
Skobeleff,  indefatigable  as  he,  as  quick  in  securing  information, 
a  leader  as  inspiring,  Nicholson  had  none  of  Skobeleff's 
gaiety.  He  was  a  serious,  almost  sombre  man,  when  work 
was  on  hand.  Of  great  height  and  strength  and  manly 
beauty,  of  fiery  temper,  and  implacable  hatred  of  the  tame  and 
undecided  leaders  whom  he  met,  Nicholson  was  loved  by 
those  who  loved  him  as  few  men  have  been  ;  was  followed 


62  COSMOPOLIS. 

and  trusted  like  Marlborough  by  every  soldier  with  a  soldier's 
heart ;  and,  while  implacable  when  severity  was  needed,  always 
leant  to  mercy's  side  when  mercy  was  possible.  With  Baird 
Smith,  Hodson,  Neville  Chamberlain,  and  other  friends,  he 
saved  India  by  taking  Delhi,  and  fell  in  a  charge  which  a 
Paladin  might  have  admired.  Everyone  has  heard  how  he 
was  actually  deified  by  native  enthusiasts  as  a  present  god,  and 
how  he  could  not  whip  his  sect  into  renouncing  their  creed. 
One  slew  himself  when  the  hero  died,  "  What  is  a  life  without 
Nicholson  ?"  England  and.  Ireland  have  a  common  claim  to 
pride  in  this  indefatigable  and  indomitable  warrior,  whose  loss, 
like  that  of  Dundee  at  Killiecrankie,  seemed  to  deprive  victory 
of  its  reward.  His  name  is  named  with  that  of  Wolfe,  but  it 
may,  perhaps,  be  admitted  that  Nicholson  had  the  greater 
genius  in  the  art  of  war.  Judging  by  the  "Dialogue  of 
the  Dead  "  between  the  shades  of  Wolfe  and  Montcalm,  which 
Montcalm's  aide-de-camp  wrote,  the  victor  of  Quebec  had  less 
of  military  genius,  as  of  splendid  appearance  and  strength,  than 
the  god  of  the  "  Nikalsainis."  The  book  contains  many  curious 
anecdotes,  in  addition  to  its  general  theme,  which  is  managed 
in  a  style  that  warms  and  improves  as  the  author  advances. 

I  like  to  fancy  the  intelligent  foreign  amateur  of  our  literature 
trying  to  read  "  The  Water  of  the  Wondrous  Isles,"  a  post- 
humous romance  in  prose  by  the  late  Mr.  William  Morris. 
With  the  aid  of  dictionaries  and  the  glossaries  of  Mr.  Skeat, 
Mr.  Fleay,  Dr.  Furnival,  and  other  pundits,  I  presume  he 
could  spell  out  that  archaistic  and  composite  speech  which 
Mr.  William  Morris  invented.  Why  he  wrote  that  colluvics  of 
obsolete  words  from  all  sorts  of  "past  irreconcilable  ages" 
nobody  knows.  Nobody  can  read  this  kind  of  thing  for 
pleasure  :  as  the  schoolboy  justly  remarked,  "  Td  sooner  read 
my  Chaucer."  There  is  an  article  of  seven  mortal  columns 
on  the  subject  in  The  Athenccum  (December  4).  As  I  have  a 
very  high  respect  for  the  author  of  "The  Defence  of 
Guinevere,"  "The  Life  and  Death  of  Jason,"  and  "The 
Hollow  Land,"  1  have  strayed  among  these  monumental  seven 
columns  trying  to  pick  up  information  as  to  why  Mr.  Morris 
would  write  dreams  in  that  manner.  1  found  a  great 
deal  that  I  did  not  want  to  know  about    Persian  maidens, 


5^ot£s  on  new  Books.  63 

Mr.   Rossetti,  Mr.  Swinburne,  Mr.  O'Shaughnessy,  Edgar  Poe, 
more  about  Mr.  Swinburne,  Ibn  el  Wardi  (that  fine  writer), 
Charles    Dickens,   Mr.  Crowe,   more    about   Mr.  Swinburne, 
Walt  Whitman,  Wagner,   Villon,  more   about    Mr.    Rossetti, 
'Arry,   Mr.    Stead,    Homer,   still    more    about    Mr.   Rossetti, 
Tottenham  Court-road,  and   Icelandic  Sagas.     But  why  did 
Mr.  Morris  write  dreams  in  a  style  that  never  was,  nor  will 
be,  English  of  any  age  ?     Well,   Mr.  Morris  did  not  believe 
that  there  was  any  longer  a  market  for  "  artistic  poetry,"  or 
that  people  would  read  long  stories  in  metre.      Ccst  selon :  if 
they  don't  read  Scott,  they  buy  him  ;   to  be  sure,  his  is  not 
"  artistic  poetry."      It  may  have  been,  as  we  are  told  it  was,  an 
inspiring  spectacle  "  to  see  these  two  together  "  (Mr.  Morris 
and  Mr.  Rossetti) ;   but  even  that  fact  does  not  explain  why 
Mr.  Morris  would  not   write  English.      Mr.  Morris,  we  are 
informed,  went  to  see  Mr.  Stead  dance,  and  did  not  like  it. 
But  even  this  circumstance  does  not  answer  our  question,  and 
I  presume  that  the  Mr.  Stead  who  danced,  like  Hippocleides, 
"  in  a  manner  pleasing  to  himself,  but  disgusting  to  others," 
was  not  the  Mr.  Stead  Jc  nos  jours.     It  seems  to  come  to  this, 
that  Mr.  Morris  was  a  narrative  poet,  and  the  public  would 
not  read  his  narrative  poetry.     So  he  turned  to  the  Sagas  for 
models.     Now,  if  one  thing  is  more  unlike  another  than   Mr. 
Morris's  prose  dreams  are  unlike  the  "Njala,"  I  know  not  what 
those  two  things  may  be.    It  is  a  mystery  !    There  are  charming 
interludes  of  beauty  in  these  efforts  at  creating  a  new  genre, 
but  the  efforts  are  not  good  stories,  and  the  Sagas  are  the 
best  stories  in  the  world.    The   Sagas  are  written,  too,  in  a 
language,   and    Mr.    Morris's   dreams  are    not    written    in   a 
language.    They  are  the  failures  of  a  man  of  genius,  who  wrote 
poetry   when  he  Wiis  younger ;    not  great   poetry,  but  good 
poetry,  with  a  cachet  of  its  own.     Whoever  wanders  through 
those  odd  archaistic  last  books  of  Mr.  Morris  will  find  many  a 
charming  scene,  many   pictures  of  nature  and  of  men  and 
women,  but   a  story   he   will   not  find.     For  a  story  in  Mr. 
Morris's  works  the  reader  must  go  either  to  the  translations 
from  the  Icelandic  or  to  "Jason,"  "The  Earthly  Paradise," 
and   "  Sigurd,"   where   the   fable  is  supplied  ready  made  by 
Greek  literature  or  Northern  "  Marchen."    Mr.  Morris's  genius, 


64  COSlfOPOLIS. 

one  presumes,  was  decorative  rather  than  constructive.  He 
took  the  bare  skali  or  hall  of  the  Volsunga  Saga,  so  to  speak, 
and  fitted  it  with  hangings  and  dadoes  and  metal-work  in  his 
own  taste.  Let  anyone  read  his  prose  translation  of  the 
"  Volsunga,"  and  then  read  his  most  ambitious  effort,  the 
epic  of  "Sigurd."  The  Saga  is  a  genuine  thing,  a  real 
fruit  of  many  far-off  ages ;  the  modern  epic  in  verse  is, 
unavoidably,  a  kind  of  brilliant  anachronism.  Some  one  is 
said  to  have  asked,  "  Who  can  take  an  interest  in  a  fellow 
whose  brother  is  a  serpent  ? "  The  objection  is  crudely 
stated,  yet  has  its  force.  Fellows  whose  brothers  were 
serpents  are  not  convincing  in  modern  verse.  We  do  not 
meet  such  people  in  the  two  great  epics  of  Greece.  An 
epic  is  artificial  if  it  does  not  appeal  to  everybody,  like 
the  Iliad  and  Odyssey,  the  ^ICneid,  and,  in  its  day,  *'  Para- 
dise Lost."  It  was  not  in  nature  that  *'  Sigurd "  should 
appeal  to  people  in  general ;  they  felt  dcpays^s,  if  they  w^ere 
not  amateurs  of  barbaric  or  even  savage  ideas,  tastes,  and 
customs.  "Jason"  had  not  to  struggle  against  such  difficulties, 
because  the  world  is  familiar  with  the  Greek  tradition,  itself 
much  more  civilised  than  the  tradition  of  the  North.  Thus 
"Sigurd,"  in  spite  of  its  lofty  aims  and  many  merits,  may 
probably  have  disappointed  the  author,  if  he  cared  to  be  widely 
read,  as  it  is  natural  that  a  man  should  care,  in  the  bottom  of 
his  heart.  He  fell  back  on  poetical  tales  in  prose,  which  had 
attracted  him  even  as  an  undergraduate ;  witness  "  The 
Hollow  Land,"  and  other  pieces  in  The  Oxford  and  Cambridge 
Magazine.  He  added  the  archaistic  style  which  is,  and  ought 
to  be,  a  stumbling-block. 

It  is,  indeed,  a  puzzle  to  know  what  style  a  man  should 
use  in  writing  about  times  remote.  Mr.  Butler,  in  his 
"Authoress  of  the  Odyssey,"  girds  gently  at  Mr.  Butcher 
and  myself  for  using  the  English  of  Wardour-street  in 
translating  the  Odyssey.  1  would  humbly  plead  that  we 
were  translating  Greek  which  is  itself  archaic  and  compo- 
site, which  never  was  a  spoken  language,  and  that  we  used 
no  words  so  nearly  obsolete  that  they  are  not  familiar 
to  readers  of  the  English  Bible.  I  do  not  mean  to  say  that 
we  made  the  best  choice,  such  as  will  be  found  in  a  prose 


NOTES   ON   NEW   BOOKS.  65 

fragment  of  the  Iliad,  by  Lord  Tennyson.     But   Mr.    Butler 

himself  uses  the   style   of   modern   colloquialism,   in    which 

Homer,  to  myself,  seems  to  be  made  ridiculous.     "  '  You  are 

infinitely    better  -  looking    than    Penelope,'     said     Ulysses." 

This,  certainly,  will  never  do,  yet  Mr.  Butler  appears  to  intend 

to  publish  an  Odyssey  in  this  manner.     His  argument  that  the 

Odyssey   was  "  written "  at   Trapani,   in   Sicily,  by  a  young 

woman,  about  iioo — 1000,  cannot  well  be  examined  in  detail. 

Many  of  the  touches  which  are  supposed  to  mark  a  feminine 

hand   may  easily  be  paralleled   in  the   Iliad.     Indications  of 

feminine  ignorance  and  carelessness  may  be  paralleled  from 

Mr.   Butler.     What    is   bourgoisie  (p.  139)  ?     It  is  school-girl 

French.     What   is   Mr.  Butler's  theory  that  Odysseus  should 

have  betrayed  his  secret  by  "  hugging"  his  dog,  Argus  ?     It  is 

school-girl  sentiment.     What  is  his  surj)rise  at  the  conduct  of 

the  Sun  in  entrusting  his  herds  to  women  ?     It  is  school-girl 

ignorance.     What  is  his  derivation  of  Laestrygonia  from  \aa<; 

rpvydo)    and    ala  ?       To    myself    it     looks    like    school  -  girl 

philology,  but  this  may  be  left  to  the  learned.     Mr.  Butler 

dwells  on  such  discrepancies  as  occur,  or  may  be  thought  to 

occur,  in  the  Odyssey.    These  have  been  already  set  in  various 

contradictory  lights  by  Kirchhoff,  Niese,  Wilamowitz  Mollen- 

dorfl,  and  others.     I  have  tried  to  reply  in  "  Homer  and  the 

Epic,"  and  have  shown  that  "  Ivanhoe "  may  be  treated  in 

precisely  the  same  way.     But  while  the  Germans  account  for 

the  so-called  discrepancies   by  theories  of  many   authors  in 

many  ages  (their  theories  all  differ),  Mr.  Butler  accounts  for 

them  by  the  author's  own  after-thoughts  and  amplifications. 

He   and   the  German  critics  both    make   much   of  recurrent 

passages,  which,  if  they  are  also  found  in  the  Iliad,  must  be 

borrowed  from  that  poem.     Thiey  are  feally,  I  think,  stock 

passages,  such  as  everyone  knows  in  our  own  Border  ballads. 

With  epic  repetition,  as  in  the  "  Chansons  de  Geste,"  Gaelic 

legend,  Maori    narrative,  and  so  forth,   writers  on  the  Greek 

epic    really    ought    to    be    familiar.      It     is    very     little    to 

the  credit  of  scholarship  that  the  comparative  method  should 

be  so  much   neglected  by  German  and   English   writers   on 

early    Greek    poetry.     In    Italy,     Professor    Comparetti    has 

applied  the  method,  notably  in   the   case  of  the  ''  Kalevala, " 
VOL.  I3C. — NO.  XXV,  r> 


66  COSMOPOLIS. 

and  it  is  fatal  to  the  German  systems  of  Homeric  criticism. 
In  the  same  way,  some  thirty  years  ago,  Professor  Comparetti 
upset  the  philological  system  of  Mythology  by  his  brief 
study  of  the  myth  of  CEdipous.  I  do  not  know  whether  his 
work  on  the  "  Kalevala  "  has  produced  any  effect  in  Germany. 
Here  our  classical  scholars  seem  almost  wholly  unversed  in  the 
comparative  study  of  early  national  poetry.  Mr.  Butler's 
topographical  remarks  on  Trapani  are  of  great  interest  and 
ingenuity.  But  why  is  he  gratified  by  the  absence  of  a  river  at 
Trapani,  while  the  river  is  a  main  detail  of  Scherian  land- 
scape ?  The  Scherian  river  he  supposes  to  have  been  a  tide 
rush  ;  here  I  cannot  follow  him.  To  myself  the  geography  of 
the  voyage  after  Lotusland  is  "  on  perilous  seas  in  fairy  lands 
forlorn,"  it  is  "  the  ocean  of  the  streams  of  story."  One  would 
need  considerable  space  for  a  reply  to  Mr.  Butler's  paradox, 
but  in  a  fair  field  I  would  gladly  encounter  him. 

Mr.  Gosse's  short  history  of  "  Modern  English  Literature  " 
(from  1350)  is  a  very  good  example  of  what  such  a  work 
ought  to  be.  I  do  not  know  that  James  I.  saw  his  lady  love  in 
the  garden  of  Windsor  Castle,  and  the  date  of  his  capture 
seems  not  to  be  settled,  though  there  is  a  wrangle  as  to  whether 
it  was  "  in  time  of  truce."  Mr.  Gosse  is  persuaded  of  the 
authenticity  of  the  poem,  one  is  glad  to  find.  Probably  opinions 
will  differ  as  to  whether  the  vivacity  of  M.  Gosse's  style  does 
not  carry  him  too  far,  when  he  compares  Swift  to  "  an  infuriated 
ape."  To  myself  the  remarks  on  De  Foe  seem  inadequate,  but 
who  can  do  more  than  bestow  a  few  hints  on  such  an  author, 
in  a  book  which  has  to  cover  so  large  a  field  ?  Mr.  Gosse's 
judgment  of  Bolingbroke,  again,  is  curiously  at  variance 
with  that  of  Pope,  whose  opinion  should  perhaps  have  been 
mentioned.  In  speaking  of  Pope's  Iliad,  which  was  the 
Iliad  for  his  age,  one  would  have  liked  to  see  the  excellence 
of  the  speeches  applauded,  for  in  these  Pope  certainly 
keeps  closer  to  his  original  than  elsewhere,  and  his  render- 
ing must  remain  unsurpassable.  But  the  critic,  confessedly, 
has  been,  in  a  sense,  "  unjust  to  everyone."  Mr.  Gosse 
pleasantly  remarks  on  the  "  slashing  style  of  criticism  "  (in  the 
old  Quarterlies),  "  it  gives  satisfaction  to  the  reviewer,  pain  to 
the  author,  and  a  faint  amusement  to  the  public,"     I  daresay 


NOTES  ON   NEW   BOOKS.  67 

that  his  book  will  be  "  slashed,"  and  I  hope  that  the  circum- 
stance will  not  give  him  pain.    Thus  "  Scott's  early  ideal  was 
Fielding,"  says    Mr.  Gosse.     Can   even   he    be  ignorant  that 
Scott's  early  favourite  was  not  the  creator  of  "  Tom  Jones," 
but  his  own  fellow-countryman,  the  ingenious  Dr.  Smollett  ?  " 
The  slasher  then  produces  evidence  to   this  important    fact 
(the  anecdote  is  in  Lockhart),  and  tramples  bellowing  on  his 
victim.     I  am  not  so  sure  that  Scott  is  extinct  on  the  Continent. 
Millet  had  "  Redgauntlet "  read  aloud  to  him  on  his  death-bed. 
However,  Sir  Walter  is  certainly  not  where   he  was.     Scot- 
land stands   not   where  she    did.     Byron  was  "  an  altar  on 
which  the  fiame  of  personal  genius  flared  like  a  conflagration." 
The  huge  topic  and  the  small  scale  make  it  nearly  inevitable 
that  things  should  be  expressed  in  metaphors  and  epigrams. 
What  Mr.  Gosse  says  of  Mr.  J.  R.  Green  might  be  applied  to 
himself.     His  "  danger  lies  in  his  excess  of  poetic  sensibility, 
his  tendency  to  be  carried  away  by  his  flow  of  animal  spirits." 
I  am   not  sure    that  short    histories   of  great  literatures  are 
feasible  things.    "  Educational,"   however,  they   cannot   be  : 
nobody  can  be  so  fatuous  as,  having  read  them,  to  go  away 
and  think  that  he  knows  all  about  the  matter  in  hand.     In  this 
case  he  has  the  enjoyment  of  reading  in  408  most  readable 
pages,   Mr.    Gosse's   exposition    of    his    tastes    put    shortly, 
amusingly,  and  in  a  very  vivid  form,  while  all  is  interwoven 
with  a  scientific  theory  of  development.     Did  Tennyson,  by 
the  way,  compose  a  lyric   "on  his  death-bed"?     It  cannot 
have  been  "  Crossing  the  Bar,"  and  I  would  gladly  see  it. 

Of  new  poets,  Mr.  Newbolt,  with  his  "  Admirals  All,"  is,  in 
the  old  phrase,  "  the  jockey  for  me."  Like  the  late  Mr.  Southey, 
I  am  "  an  LL.D.,  a  peaceful  man,"  and  should  be  ashamed, 
perhaps,  to  "plume  myself"  on  these  verses  of  old  sea-fighters. 
Besides,  I  am  not  on  Mr.  Newbolt's  side  about  Hawke  and 
Quiberon  Bay,  for  Hawke  crushed  the  last  hope  of  the  White 
Rose.  To  me  it  sounds  not  wholly  joyful,  that  message  to  the 
Prince  :  "  Conflans  beaten — his  ship,  the  Soleil  Royal,  and 
the  H^ro,  stranded  at  Croisic.  Seven  ships  are  come  in.  Ten 
are  flying  at  sea."  However,  this  is  the  idlest  sentiment.  Mr. 
Newbolt's  verses  are  full  of  poetical  and  patriotic  spirit,  and 
,  cost  a  shilling  at  the  booth  of  Mr.  Elkin  Matthews.     There  is 


68  COSMOPOLIS. 

a  ballad  of  John  Nicholson,  and  a  fine  lyric  on  the  Guides  who 
died  with  Hamilton  at  Cabul,  and  the  school  and  sea  poems. 
It  is  a  capital  book  for  boys,  and  it  is  not  in  imitation  of  Mr. 
Kipling. 

Mr.  Podmore's  "  Studies  in  Psychical  Research  "  are  based; 
as  far  as  the  facts  are  concerned,  on  the  large  collections  of 
the  Society  to  which  he  belongs.     The  book  is  a  stocktaking, 
as  it  were,  of  the  Society's  results,  as  seen  by  Mr.  Podmore. 
People  who  do  not  care  to  peruse  the  Proceedings  and  Journal 
of  the  Society  will  find  this  a  useful  summary.     The  position 
of  the  researchers  is  peculiar,  and  highly  creditable  to  their 
temper  and  tenacity.     The  phenomena  which  they  investigate 
have  been  the  puzzle,  the  belief,  the  dread,  or  the  laughing- 
stock of  mankind.     While  one  set  of  philosophers,  with  Hume, 
adjured  the  wise  and  learned  to  laugh  these  things  down,  and, 
of  all  things,  never  to  examine  the  evidence  for  them,  another 
set,  with    Hegel,   admitted   almost    all  the   phenomena    into 
their    philosophy,  without   adducing   any   evidence !      Hegel 
simply  says  that  no  amount  of  verification  will  satisfy  philo- 
sophers  who   dismiss  the  narratives   unexamined,    "as  mere 
deception    and    imposture,    infinitely    numerous   though  the 
narratives  be,  and  accredited  by  the  education  and  character 
of  the  witnesses."     It  was  left  for  the  Society  to  collect  and  sift 
the  modern  testimonies  which   Hume  disdained    and     Hegel 
thought  superfluous  for  his  purpose.    The  work  of  the  Society 
has  been  marked  by  good  temper  amidst  the  general  indiffer- 
ence or  banter.     Mr.   Podmore's  r^sum^  states  the  results  at 
their   lowest   possible    value ;   indeed   many  of   his   attempts 
at     normal     explanations     are     more     incredible     than     the 
stories  themselves.     Of  course,  he  alone  is  responsible  for  his 
conclusions.     On  the  affirmative  side  he  seems  convinced  that 
ofl&cial  science  has  not  discovered  the  limits  of  human  faculty. 
The  thought  of  one  individual  mind  may  be  reflected  on  the 
consciousness  of  another  mind  through  no  known  channel 
of  sense.     About  the  truth  of  this  I  was  long  in  doubt,  but  am 
in  doubt  no  longer,  certain  experiments  have  convinced  nie. 
It  is  obvious  that,  if  this  opinion  can  be  proved  valid,  the  study 
of  human  faculty  owes  much  to  the  Society,  and  a  door  is 
opened  on  unknown  possibilities  of  knowledge.     For  example, 


NOTES  ON   NEW   BOOKS.  69 

as  Professor    Wallace   says   in    his    introduction    to   Hegel's 

"  Philosophy  of  Mind,"    "  Light  may  be  thrown  on  several 

points  connected  with  primitive  religion  and  the  history  of 

early  civilisation  .  .  .  indeed,  this  is  one  of  the  points  which 

may  be  said  to  emerge  out  of  the  confusion  of  dispute."     The 

anthropological  theory  of  the  Origin  of  Religion  will  have  to 

be  reconsidered.     This  I  have  been  proclaiming,  like  a  voice 

in  the  wilderness,  for  long  enough.     But  no  man  marks  me. 

Mr.  Grant  Allen,  for  example,  marks  me  not  in  his  "  Evolution 

of  the  Idea  of  God."     Having  written  elsewhere  on  this  work 

at  considerable  length,   I   need  only  say  here  that  I  do  not 

accept  some  important  facts  of  Mr.  Allen's  without  evidence  in 

detail,  and  that  his  reasoning  seems  to  me  somewhat  faulty. 

If  he  pursues  the  study  further  it  will,  no  doubt,  be  possible  to 

come  to  closer  quarters  with  his  argument. 

Andkkw  Lang. 


THE  THEATRE  IN  LONDON. 


Revival  of  **  Hamlet"  and  "The  Tempest";  "Admiral  Guinea,"  by 
Mr.  W.  E.  Henley  and  the  late  Mr.  R.  L.  Stevenson  ;  "The  Little 
Minister,"  by  Mr.  J.  M.  Barrie;  "The  Liars,"  by  Mr.  Henry  Arthur 
Jones  ;  "The  Tree  of  Knowledge,"  by  Mr.  R.  C.  Carton ;  "The  Vaga- 
bond King"  and  "The  Happy  Home,"  bv  Mr.  L.  N.  Parker. 

A  SINGULARLY  luminous  piece  of  criticism  was  once  casually 
hit  upon  by  Dante  Gabriel  Rossetti  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Gosse  : 
"  It  seems  to  me  that  all  poetry,  to  be  really  enduring,  is  bound 
to  be  as  amusing  (however  trivial  the  word  may  sound)  as 
any  other  class  of  literature  ;  and  I  do  not  think  that  enough 
amusement  to  keep  it  alive  can  ever  be  got  out  of  incidents 
not  amounting  to  events."  If  this  is  true  of  all  poetry,  then 
it  is  true  of  all  tragic  poetry  ;  and  if  true  of  all  tragic  poetry, 
then  it  is  true  of  "  Hamlet."  That  looks  at  first  sight  like  a 
reductio  ad  absurdnin.  For  we  have  accustomed  ourselves  to 
think  of  "  Hamlet "  as  the  typical  tragedy  of  "  inspissated 
gloom,"  of  the  turn  for  melancholy,  the  Albert  Durerism,  in 
the  Northern  race.  I  say  that  we  have  accustomed  ourselves, 
but  am  not  sure  that  we  have  not  been  rather  the  victims  of 
a  conspiracy  between  our  players  and  our  scene-painters. 
Wc  have  been  shown  a  Hamlet  crushed  under  a  burden 
too  grievous  to  be  borne  ;  a  d^traqu^,  a  sick  man, 
exacerbated  in  temper,  and  with  nerves  perpetually  on  the 
rack.  Elsinore  has  been  made  a  place  of  weeping  and 
wailing  and  gnashing  of  teeth.  Whatever  else  it  may  have 
been,  this  mode  of  presenting  the  tragedy  has  not  been 
''amusing."  It  has  weighed  on  our  spirits  like  a  night- 
mare. We  see  this  depressing  tradition  at  its  culminating 
point   in    Garrick,  whose   Hamlet    must   have   been    what  the 


THE  THEATRE  IN  LONDON.  7I 

Americans  call  a  "holy  terror."  "Would  you  not,  sir," 
asked  Boswell,  "start  as  Mr.  Garrick  does,  if  you  saw  a 
ghost  ?  "  Johnson  answered,  "  I  hope  not.  If  I  did,  I  should 
frighten  the  ghost."  Since  Garrick's  time  Hamlet  has  gone  on 
"  putting  on  weight,"  as  the  sportsmen  say.  If  the  ghost  has 
not  been  frightened,  he  must  often  have  been  bored.  Elsinore 
has  fairly  earned  the  new  title  of  "Crotchet  Castle,  or  Le 
Monde  ou  Ton  s'ennuie." 

It  has  been  reserved  for  Mr.  Forbes  Robertson,  one  of  the 
most  intellectually  alert  and  fastidious  actors  the  English  stage 
has  now,  or  in  all  probability  ever  had,  to  compel  us  to 
reconsider,  to  re-adjust,  to  revitalise  our  conception  of 
"  Hamlet."  He  has  taught  us  how  we  may  be  "  amused  "  by 
this  tragedy — and  that  in  a  wider  than  the  Rossettian  sense. 
For,  of  course,  we  knew  already  that  the  play  abounds  in 
"incidents  amounting  to  events" — ^ghosts  walking,  Court 
entertainments,  assassinations,  insurrections,  suicides,  funeral 
pageants,  fights,  alarums,  and  excursions — in  short,  a  bustling, 
rapid,  vivid  action,  full  of  a  certain  sort  of  "  amusement."  But 
that  is  only  the  outside  of  the  play.  The  novelty  of  Mr. 
Robertson's  achievement  consists  in  the  lesson  that  the  inside,' 
the  kernel,  the  life  and  soul  of  the  play — Hamlet's  vie 
iniMeure — is,  rightly  considered,  "  amusing,"  too. 

He  has  shown  us  Hamlet's  busy,  curious,  hedonistic, 
characteristically  Renaissance  temperament  asserting  itself 
triumphantly  again  and  again,  reacting  against  uncongenial 
circumstance,  automatically  and  almost  light-heartedly  throw- 
ing off  the  burden  of  the  ghost's  "  mission,"  revealing  itself  as 
a  "  sunny"  temperament  of  youth  and  life  and  charm.  In  his 
"Tr6sor  des  Humbles,"  M.  Maeterlinck  says:  "J'admire 
Othello,  mais  il  ne  me  parait  pas  vivre  de  I'auguste  vie  quoti- 
dienne  d'un  Hamlet,  qui  a  le  temps  de  vivre  parce  qu'il  n'agit 
pas."  "Auguste"  is  good,  as  Touchstone  would  observe. 
There  is  something  superb  in  Hamlet's  interest  in  life  and 
emotion  and  speculation,  whenever  he  "  has  time  to  live."  He 
picks  himself  to  pieces  and  dwells  lovingly  on  every  piece, 
like  Montaigne.  He  hsis  Bacon's  ardour  for  experiment  and 
understanding,  "taking  all  knowledge  for  his  province."  With 
Sir  Thomas  Browne,  he  is  an  amateur  of  the  curious  and  the 


72  COSMOPOLIS. 

recondite.  To  my  thinking,  this  "  Hamlet "  is  not  merely  a  great 
world-tragedy — that  is  a  commonplace — but  an  almost  unique 
illustration  of  the  growth  of  the  human  spirit,  of  the  gulf 
between  to-day  and  yesterday,  of  the  truth  that  two  generations 
can  never  be,  in  M.  Alphonse  Daudet's  phrase,  du  m^me  bateau. 
Here  is  my  reason.  We  know  that  for  his  framework  Shake- 
speare took  the  plot  of  an  earlier  play.  That  play  was  a 
vendetta-dv3.m'd,  a  type  which  is  well-nigh  the  most 
ancient  in  the  history  of  all  drama,  a  type  of  which  the 
Oresteian  trilogy  is  the  classic  example.  Here,  of  course, 
the  early  stage  only  reflected  the  importance  of  the  wild 
justice  of  revenge  in  early  societies.  What  prompted  Shake- 
speare to  fasten  upon  a  '*  revenge "  story  was,  no  doubt, 
its  popularity.  In  what  way  this  story  appealed  to  him 
personally  1  do  not  know.  Nobody  knows.  But  one  may 
hazard  a  guess  ;  and  I  guess  that,  when  once  he  had  taken  it 
up,  he  found  his  framework  of  *' revenge"  story  something  of 
a  nuisance.  I  guess  that  all  his  interest  went  out  to  his  hero, 
not  as  an  avenger,  but  as  a  projection  of  himself — as  being 
and  thinking  what  he,  William  Shakespeare,  would  be  and 
think,  all  ghosts  and  missions  and  family  vengeance  notwitli- 
standing.  That,  beyond  all  doubt  and  cavil,  is  Hamlet's 
attitude.  Commentators  speak  of  his  being  crushed  by  his 
"  mission."  Why,  he  seizes  every  opportunity  of  putting  it  out 
of  sight !  Fresh  from  his  interview  with  the  ghost,  when  other 
men  would  be  still  dazed  by  the  shock,  he  is  told  of  the  arrival 
of  a  troop  of  strolling  players.  Does  he  say,  '^  I  am  not  in 
the  mood  for  these  trifles  now,  I'm  a  changed  man,  I  must  not 
be  disturbed  in  my  great  business  of  revenge  "  ?  Not  a  bit  of 
it.  His  face  lights  up  ;  his  mind  starts  off  at  a  tangent  to  the 
things  of  the  theatre.  He  spouts  one  of  the  players'  speeches. 
He  gives  them  a  lecture  on  the  art  of  acting.  That  the  players 
may  be  of  use  in  his  ''revenge"  business  is  a  thought  that 
only  comes  to  him  later,  and,  as  it  were,  by  the  way — when  he 
has  time  to  spare  from  the  far  more  important  business 
of  art  and  of  Vauguste  vie  quotidienne.  And  so,  when 
the  players  with  their  "  mouse-trap "  have  helped  him  to 
corroborate  the  ghost's  story,  is  he  overwhelmed  by  the  terrible 
truth,  as  a  man  full  of  nought  but  his  "  mission  "  would  be  ? 


THE   THEATRE    IN    LONDOX.  73 

i 

Not  at  all ;  what  he  at  first  shows  is  the  joy  of  the  scientific 
investigator  whose  experiment  has  "come  off."  The  justiciary 
who  still  has  his  task  to  do  is  lost  in  the  successful  detective, 
whose  task  for  the  moment  is  done.  Follow  Hamlet  to  the 
last  Act,  and  you  shall  still  find  him  jumping  at  any  chance  of 
forgetting  his  "  mission."  If  he  meets  a  gravedigger  he  must 
needs  stop  and  "  draw  him  out,"  measure  wits  with  the  fellow, 
let  the  flavour  of  his  rustic  philosophy  melt  (like  any  other 
bonne  bouche)  on  the  tongue.  Osric  comes  to  invite  him  to  a 
bout  of  fence  with  Laertes.  He  accepts  with  eagerness. 
What  is  the  "  mission  "  of  a  lifetime  to  a  stirring  half-hour 
with  the  foils  ?  Throughout  one  seems  to  see  Erhart  Bork- 
man  in  Hamlet,  and  to  hear  Erhart's  cry  :  '^  I  wasn't  born  to 
be  a  missionary ;  I  want  to  live,  live,  live ! "  All  this 
virtuosity  and  dilettantism  of  Hamlet,  his  keen  interest  in  life 
as  a  game  to  play  at  and  to  think  about,  his  courtesy  and 
grace,  his  sympathy  for  all  things  human,  his  intense  vitality, 
leave  a  cheerful,  almost  exhilarating  and  gay  impression  upon 
the  mind,  which  goes  far  to  mitigate  the  chill  cast  on  it  by  the 
tragic  gloom  of  the  plot.  In  a  word,  Hamlet  is  discovered  to 
be  capable  of  "  amusing  "  us.  And  I,  for  one,  am  grateful  to 
Mr.  Forbes  Robertson  for  helping  us  to  that  discovery. 

In  this  matter,  I  venture  to  predict,  Mr.  Robertson  will  be 
the  pioneer  of  a  fashion.  No  actor  will  henceforth  venture  to 
take  up  a  Shakespearean  classic  without  seeking  and  bringing 
to  light  that  enduring  virtue  of  the  classic  which  Rossetti 
called  its  power  of  "  amusement,"  without  an  attempt  to  offer 
it  as  something  fresh  and  alive,  something  which  makes  a  direct 
appeal  to  ourselves  to-day.  The  reign  of  "  tradition  "  for  its 
own  sake  is  over.  If  any  evidence  were  needed  for  this  state- 
ment, I  would  point  to  the  woeful  failure  of  the  contrary 
attempt,  the  attempt  to  revert  to  the  pristine  tradition  by 
"  putting  the  clock  back,"  to  be  noted  in  the  performances  of 
the  Elizabethan  Stage  Society.  This  very  earnest  and  well- 
intentioned  Society  recently  produced  "  The  Tempest,"  in 
what  is  supposed  (for,  after  all,  it.  is  a  matter  of  supposition  ; 
exact  knowledge  is  out  of  the  question)  to  be  the  scenic  mode 
of  Shakespeare's  time.  On  the  face  of  it,  "The  Tempest," 
with    its    romantic  atmosphere  of  "  white  magic,"  its  subtle 


74  COSMOPOLIS. 

identification  of  fairyland  with  the  Spanish  Main,  its  queer 
half  beasts  half  men,  its  virgins  to  whom  a  man  is  what  Gulliver 
was  to  the  Laputans,  is  rich  in  potentiality  of  "  amusement." 
The  archaic  antics  of  the  Elizabethan  Stage  Society  turned 
what  should  have  been  amusing  into  something  bewildering, 
inept,  and  lugubrious.  In  fact,  the  whole  purpose  of  the 
Society  strikes  me  as  an  amiable  absurdity.  We  are  not 
Elizabethans  but  Victorians.  What  the  Elizabethan  frame  of 
mind  was  in  the  playhouse  we  Victorians  do  not  know,  never 
can  know,  and  are  not  really  concerned  to  know\  If  Shake- 
speare matters  to-day,  it  is  not  as  a  "  curio  "  that  he  matters,  it 
is  because  of  the  interest,  the  ''  amusement  "  he  is  capable  of 
offering  to  the  men  of  to-day. 

Some  fifteen  years  ago.  Fate  and  Metaphysical  Aid  impelled 
the  late  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  to  the  study  of  the  old 
buccaneers  and  their  romantic  age  : — 

An  Age  of  mariners  scoundrelly  and  bold — 
Blackbeard  and  Avory,  Singleton,  Roberts,  Kidd — 
An  Age  which  seemed,  the  while  it  rolled  its  quid. 
Brave  with  adventure  and  doubloons  and  crime. 
Rum  and  the  Ebony  trade  :  when,  time  on  time, 
Real  pirates,  right  Sea- Highwaymen,  could  mock 
The  carrion  strung  at  Execution  Dock  ; 
And  the  trim  slaver,  with  her  raking  rig, 
Her  forest  of  sails,  her  spars  superb  and  trig, 
Held,  in  a  villainous  ecstasy  of  gain, 
Her  tainted  course  from  Benin  to  the  Main, 
And  back  again  for  niggers — 

and  the  result  was  "  Treasure  Island  " — a  book  ostensibly 
written  for  boys,  but  in  reality  quite  beyond  their  apprecia- 
tion, and  destined  to  rank  among  the  classics  of  English  prose 
romance.  One  of  the  personages  of  this  story  (Old  Pew),  a 
blind  beggar  and  ex-pirate,  ferocious,  false,  and  cruel,  was 
done  to  death  in  an  early  chapter  ;  but  this  terrific  figure  was 
one  of  those  which  the  world  will  not  willingly  let  die,  and 
accordingly  Mr.  Stevenson,  with  the  help  of  his  friend,  Mr. 
William  Ernest  Henley,  resuscitated  Old  Pew  in  a  play — 
"  Admiral  Guinea."  All  lovers  of  good  literature  have  long 
had  this  play  on  their  shelves.  Through  the  enterprise  of 
the  organisation  calling  itself  the  New  Century  Theatre — our 


THE  THEATRE  IN  LONDON.  75 

English  analogue  of  the  Theatre  Libre  and  the  CEuvre — we 
have  at  length  seen  it  produced  on  the  boards.  The  Pew  of 
the  boards  proved  to  be  a  far  more  considerable  figure  than 
the  Pew  of  the  book.  He  was  found  to  have  added  the  saving 
grace  of  humour  to  his  old  accomplishments  ;  he  had  even 
acquired  a  philosophy  of  life — "  rum  and  the  Bible  "  was  his 
own  description  of  that  philosophy,  which  might  perhaps  be 
more  accurately  summarised  as  "  rum  and  la  joie  de  vivre.** 

It  is  a  nocturnal  adventure  of  Pew's  which  provides  nearly 
all  the  external  action  of  the  play.  Discovering  the  retreat 
of  his  old  captain,  nicknamed  "  Admiral  Guinea,"  in  reference 
partly  to  his  old  slave-hunting  exploits  on  the  African  coast, 
partly  to  the  wealth  those  exploits  are  supposed  to  have  brought 
him.  Pew  breaks  into  the  captain's  room  with  fell  designs  upon 
the  captain's  sea-chest.  And  here  a  singular  fate  befalls  him 
because  of  his  blindness.  He  is  at  first  frightened  by  hearing 
the  footsteps  of  someone  slowly  pacing  the  room  ;  but  is 
quieted  by  the  thought  that,  as  the  room  is  in  total  darkness, 
he  cannot  be  seen.  Then  groping  stealthily  about  he  burns 
his  hand  in  the  flame  of  a  candle.  Upon  this  discovery  he 
loses  his  head  ;  the  room  is  as  bright  as  day,  and  yet  the  other 
man  does  not  attack  him  1  For  the  spectator  there  is  no 
mystery  in  the  matter  ;  the  other  man  is  walking  in  his  sleep. 
But  the  mental  agony  of  a  blind  man  in  this,  to  him,  inexpli- 
cable situation  must,  when  you  come  to  think  of  it,  be 
enough  to  curdle  his  blood.  Curiously  enough,  the  full 
poignancy  of  the  situation  failed  to  get  itself  realised  on  the 
stage.  I  can  only  conjecture  that  it  was  too  ingenious,  that 
it  required  too  much  thinking  out ;  that  the  horror  resides 
rather  in  our  reflections  as  to  what  must  be  passing  in  Pew's 
mind  than  in  the  material  acts  to  which  Pew's  state  of  mind 
gives  rise. 

The  play,  however,  concerns  itself  wifn  something  more 
than  a  critical  incident  in  the  grisly  career  of  Old  Pew.  In 
their  researches  into  the  history  of  the  slave  trade  the  authors  of 
"  Admiral  Guinea "  discovered  a  real  person  altogether  out  of 
the  common  run  of  rum-swilling,  throat-cutting  pirates.  This 
was  none  other  than  Cowper's  friend,  the  Rev.  John  Newton 
—if  "  friend  "  is  the  right  name  for  a  man  who  was  largely 


76  COSMOPOLIS. 

instrumental  in  driving  Cowper  back  into  madness.     Newton's 
case  was  the  converse  of  the  common  one  described  in  the 
maxim,  corruptio  optimi  pessima.     He  had  been  captain  of  a 
Liverpool  slaveship,  and,  "getting  religion/'  became  one  of 
the  most  active  of  the  Low  Church  clergymen  of  his  day.     He 
has  been  described  (Walter  Bagehot,  National  Review,  1855) 
;is  "  one  of  those  men  who  seem  intended  to  make  excellence 
disagreeable.     He  was  a  converting  engine.     The  whole  of  his 
own  enormous  vigour  of  body — the  whole  steady  intensity  of 
a  pushing,   impelling,   compelling,   unoriginal   mind — all  the 
mental  or  corporeal  exertion  he  could  exact  from  the  weak 
or  elicit  from  the  strong  was  devoted   to  one   sole   purpose 
— the    effectual     impact    of    the    Calvinistic    tenets    on    his 
parishioners."      Here,   obviously,    was    a    figure    ready-made 
for  the   purposes  of  romance.      An   embodied   antithesis,    a 
combination     of    contradictories,    it     satisfied   to   perfection 
the  canon  laid  down   in   the  great  Romantic  manifesto,  the 
preface  to  "  Cromwell."     One  might,  indeed,  almost  say  that, 
if  John  Newton  had   not  existed,  Victor    Hugo  would   have 
invented    him.      He   is   built   on   the   very   principles  which 
Hugo  declared  to  have  guided  him,  for  instance,  in  the  con- 
struction of  Triboulet.     Such  an  opportunity  was  not  to  be 
missed  by  Mr.  Henley,  who,  even  to  this  late  hour,  has  always 
taken  a  pride  in  declaring  himself  a  follower  of  the  Romantic 
traditions  of  the  'thirties.     Of  course,  he  has  taken  no  more 
of  Newton  than  suits  his  artistic  purpose.     The  parsonage  and 
parishioners    disappear ;    Newton's   hardness  and   Calvinistic 
zeal  find  their  account  in  Captain  John  Gaunt's  stern  opposi- 
tion to  the  marriage  of  his  daughter  Arethusa to  her  "ungodly" 
lover.   Kit   French.      In   a  very  beautiful  scene — one   of   the 
most  beautifully  written  scenes,  as  I  think,  in  the  whole  range 
of   our   modern    English   drama — Arethusa   learns   from   her 
father's  lips  the  secret  of  this  opposition,  the  secret  of  his  life. 
He,  in  his  time,  had  been  an  *'  ungodly  husband,"  and  one  of 
his  dark  deeds  had  broken  his  wife's  heart. 

1  sailed  again  and  again  for  the  Guinea  coast,  until  a  trip  catne  that 
was  to  be  my  last  indeed.  Well,  it  fell  out  that  we  had  good  luck  trading, 
and  I  stowed  the  brig  with  these  poor  heathen  as  full  as  she  would  hold. 
We  had  a  fair  run  westward  till  we  were  past  the  line  ;  but  one  night 
the  wind  rose,  and  then  caine  a  hurricane,  and  for  seven  days  wc  were 


THE  THEATRE  IN  LONDON.  77 

tossed  on  the  deep  seas,  in  the  hardest  straits,  and  every  hand  on  deck 
For  seven  days  they  were  battened  down  :  all  that  time  wc  heard  their 
cries  and  lamentations,  but  worst  at  the  beginning ;  and  when  at  last,  and 
near  dead  myself,  I  crept  below — Oh  !  some  they  were  starved,  some 
smothered,  some  dead  of  broken  limbs ;  and  the  hold  was  like  a  lazar- 
house  in  the  time  of  the  anger  of  the  Lord  !  ...  It  was  two  hundred  and 
five  that  we  threw  overboard — two  hundred  and  five  lost  souls  that  I  had 
hurried  to  their  doom.  I  had  many  die  with  me  before,  but  not  like  that, 
not  such  a  massacre  as  that  ;  and  I  stood  dumb  before  the  sight.  For  I  saw 
I  was  their  murderer — body  and  soul  their  murderer. 

I  have  quoted  this  passage,  not  merely  to  explain  the  story, 
but  to  show  that,  despite  many  noisy  assurances  to  the  con- 
trary, the  theatre  may  sometimes  be  found  worthy  to  resound 
with  the  loftiest  cadences  of  classic  English  prose.  The  style 
here  is  one  of  simple,  direct  emotion  ;  the  curious  will,  perhaps, 
find  it  interesting  to  contrast  with  this  style  the  condensed  irony 
of  a  very  different  writer  in  treating  a  very  similar  incident. 
"  II  faut  avoir  de  Thumanit^,  et  laisser  a  un  nfegre  au  moins 
cinq  pieds  en  longueur  et  deux  en  largeur  pour  s'6battre, 
pendant  une  travers6e  de  six  semaines  et  plus,  car  enfin,  disait 
Ledoux  a  son  armateur  pour  justifier  cette  mesure  lib6rale,  les 
nigres,  aprfes  tout,  sont  des  hommes  comme  les  blancs." 
(M6rim6e,  ''Tamango/')  Returning  to  "  Admiral  Guinea,"  I 
cannot  forego  the  luxury  of  another  quotation,  this  time  from 
the  passage  in  which  Gaunt  describes  his  wife's  death  : — 

The  night  she  died,  she  lay  there  in  her  bed.  She  took  my  hand.  '*  I 
am  going,"  she  said,  *'  to  heaven.  ¥ov  Christ's  sake,"  she  said,  "  come  after 
me,  and  bring  my  little  maid.  I'll  be  waiting  and  wearying  till  you  come, " 
and  she  kissed  my  hand,  the  hand  that  killed  her.  At  that  I  broke  out, 
calling  on  her  to  stop,  for  it  was  more  than  I  could  bear.  But  no,  she 
said  she  must  still  tell  me  of  my  sins,  and  how  the  thought  of  them  had 
bowed  down  her  life.  "  And,  oh  ! "  she  said,  "  if  I  couldn't  prevail  on 
you  alive,  let  my  death."  .  .  .  Well,  then,  she  died.  What  have  I  done 
since  then  ?  I've  laid  my  course  for  Hester.  Sin,  temptation,  pleasure, 
all  this  poor  shadow  of  a  world,  I  saw  them  not ;  I  saw  my  Hester 
waiting,  waiting  and  wearying.  I  have  made  my  election  sure  ;  my 
sins  I  have  cast  them  out.  Hester,  Hester,  I  will  come  to  you,  poor 
waiting  one ;  and  I'll  bring  your  little  maid.  Ay,  dearest  soul,  I'll  bring 
your  little  maid  safe  with  me  ! 

The  whole  of  the  dialogue  between  father  and  daughter  is 
on  the  same  high  level  of  strong  emotion  and  noble  expres- 
sion. Unfortunately,  this  dialogue  is  only  an  interlude,  not  a 
determining  factor  in  the  action.  There  is  no  real  relation 
between  what   one  may  call   the  Gaunt  motive  and  the  Pew 


78  COSMOPOLIS. 

motive,  and  the  attempt  to  connect  them  has  the  disastrous 
result  of  degrading  Gaunt  from  a  live  character  to  a  mere 
ficelle.  After  being  at  such  pains  to  reveal  to  us  Gaunt's  "  soul- 
state,"  they  can  find  no  better  use  for  him  than  to  convert 
him  into  a  sleep-walker  to  frighten  Pew.  The  anti-climax 
deprives  the  play  of  all  seriousness. 

That  strange  product  of  literary  parochialism,  which  has 
come  to  be  called  the  "Kailyard  Novel" — after  having  had  a 
prolonged  vogue,  now  perhaps  showing  signs  of  exhaustion,  at 
the  libraries — has  at  length,  in  Mr.  J.  M.  Barrie's  dramatic 
version  of  his  own  "  Little  Minister,"  found  its  way  to  the 
theatre,  and  seems  likely  to  enjoy  a  new  vogue  there. 
I  record  the  fact ;  I  cannot  explain  it.  To  my  thinking,  Mr. 
Barrie's  play  is  an  achievement  as  small  as  his  novel  was 
great.  "Talking  of  the  success  of  the  Scotch  in  London,  he" 
(Johnson,  of  course)  "  imputed  it  in  a  considerable  degree,  to 
their  spirit  of  nationality.  '  You  know,  sir  (said  he),  that  no 
Scotchman  publishes  a  book,  or  has  a  play  brought  upon 
the  stage,  but  there  are  five  hundred  people  ready  to  applaud 
him  ! ' "  A  less  ungenerous  suggestion  would  be  that  the 
Scotch  are  more  ready  than  the  rest  of  us  to  applaud  a  country- 
man, because  they  understand  him  more  easily,  are  more  fitted 
to  see  his  point  of  view,  are  better  able  to  appreciate  the 
fidelity  of  his  portraiture.  I  confess  that  I  am  dri\  en  to  some 
such  an  account  of  the  matter  when  I  find  a  critic  like  Mr. 
William  Archer  bestowing  praise  upon  this  play  of  Mr. 
Barrie's,  which  seems  to  me  so  little  praiseworthy.  To  suspect 
Mr.  Archer  of  mere  readiness  to  applaud  a  "  brither  Scot's  " 
work  quand  m^me  would  be  both  indecent  and  absurd.  In  his 
book  Mr.  Barrie  gave  us  a  romantic  love-story  set  in  the  hard, 
prosaic,  Puritan  atmosphere  of  a  remote  Scotch  village.  The 
sweetness  and  transparent  simplicity  of  the  Little  Minister, 
the  catastrophic  effect  of  an  ardent  passion  coming  into  his 
quiet  austere  life,  the  elusive  charm,  the  dainty  elfish  grace  of 
the  gipsy  Lady  Babbie,  the  quaint,  sharp-tongued  humour  and 
naivet6  of  the  Thrums  gossips — all  these  were  excellent,  in 
the  leisurely,  detailed  method  of  the  novel.  On  the  stage 
none  of  these  things  commends   itself  to   me    as  excellent. 


THE  THEATRE  IN  LONDON.  79 

Lady  Babbie  has  lost  her  fugitive  charm,  and  becomes  the 
familiar  minx  of  the  theatre ;  at  the  Little  Minister's  nature 
we  can  only  guess,  while  his  actions  which  we  do  see  are 
trivial ;  and  the  Thrums  gossips,  turned  into  solid  flesh, 
become  for  me,  at  any  rate,  disagreeable  studies  in  the  ugly. 
They  look  like  scarecrows,  and  haunt  me  like  a  nightmare. 
Such  people  as  the  Auld  Licht  Elders,  not  softened  by  the 
vagueness  of  the  printed  page,  but  presented  on  the  stage  in 
all  their  uncouth,  rugged,  reality,  give  me  something  of  the 
shock  I  should  experience  in  meeting,  say,  a  party  of  Red 
Indians,  or  of  Australian  black  fellows.  They  simply  make  me 
feel  uncomfortable.  I  suppose  it  must  be  the  Southron  taint, 
in  me. 

Who  knows  ?     It  may  possibly  have  been  a  good  thing  for 

Apollo  to    serve  among  the  shepherds  of    Admetus.      It  is 

undoubtedly  a  good  thing  for   Mr.  Henry  Arthur  Jones  to 

mould  his  talent  to  the  requirements  of  Mr.  Charles  Wynd- 

ham.    I  assume  that  Mr.  Jones's  temperament  naturally  inclines 

to  the  serious  drama,  the  drama  of   ideas  and  ideals.    We 

must  respect  and  cherish  a  temperament  like  that.     But  it  has 

the  defects  of  its  qualities.      When  Mr.  Jones  gave  it   "  its 

fling,"  it  showed  a  dangerous  leaning  towards  the  inflated,  the 

emphatic,  the  pretentious.     Writing,  as  he  has  for  the   past 

year  or  two  written,  for  Mr.  Charles  Wyndham's  little  theatre, 

with  its  "light  brigade"  of  players  and  its  mundane  public, 

Mr.  Jones  finds  himself  compelled  to  do  his  spiriting  gently. 

At  the  Criterion  he  may  say,  with  the  German  baron  who  was 

found  jumping  over  the  chairs,  "  sh'apprens  t'dtre  fif."    And 

he  has  certainly  learnt  to  be  lively,  nimble,  light-fingered,  if 

not  light-hearted,  there.    The  governing  fact  of  the  situation  is 

that  Mr.  Wyndham  always  insists  on  playing  the  same  part. 

Under  whatever  disguise,  he  must  always  be  in  essentials  the 

Des  Ryons  of  "  L'Ami  des  Femmes."     He  has  figured  in  that 

character  under  its  proper  name  in  an  adaptation  (and  a  bad 

adaptation)  of  Dumas'  play — "  The  Squire  of  Dames."     Under 

another  name  he  played  the  same  part  in  Mr.  Jones's  "  Case  of 

Rebellious  Susan."     He  is  playing  it  again  in  Mr.  Jones's  new 

Qomedy  of  "  The  Liars/'     Now,  of  any  play  which  has  a  Des 


8o  COSMOPOLIS. 

Kyons  for  its  central  figure,  one  can  mark  out  the  framework 
as    unerringly  as   science    reconstructed    the    Ichthyosaurus 
from   a  single   bone.    The  professional   friend   of    ladies   in 
distress  must  have  a  married  lady  to  befriend,  and  in  order  to 
need  befriending  the  lady  must  have  an  unsympathetic  hus- 
band, to  whom  she  must,  at  all  costs,  be  held  fast,  and  a  sympa- 
thetic lover  from  whom  she  must,  at  all  costs,  be  saved.     AU 
these  personages  duly  make  their  appearance  in  "The  Liars." 
Further,  it  is  manifest  that  with  such  a  framework  the  play 
must  tend  rather  to  light  conventional  comedy  than   to  the 
drama   of   ideas  and    ideals.  For  the   assumption   that   it   is 
always  the  duty  of  a  wife  to  cleave  to  a  bad  husband  in  prefer- 
ence to  a  good  lover  is  not  (in  the  fullest  sense  of  the  term) 
a  "  moral  "    assumption.     It  is  asocial  convention.      How  the 
seriou  drama  treats   this   particular  case   we   may   see   from 
"Ghosts,"    which     shows    (among    other    things)   that    Mrs. 
Alving  made  a  mistake  in  not  quitting  her  husband  for  Pastor 
Manders.     But    in    such    a    region    your    Des    Ryons,  it  is 
plain,  would  be  a  fish  out  of  water.     He  is  only  possible  (as 
hero)  in  an  atmosphere  of  worldliness,  of  a  society  contented 
with  itself  and  suffering  no  questionings  of  its  fundamental 
code.     Mr.  Jones  then  finds  himself  restricted  to  light-hearted 
comedy,  to  jumping  over  (drawing-room)  chairs  ;  and  that,  I 
think,  is  not  only  a  salutary  discipline  for  his  talent,  but  a  dis- 
tinct gain  for  the  playgoer  at  large.     For  Mr.  Jones  now  stands 
revealed  to  us,  a  little  to  our  surprise  though  it  may  be,  as  a 
delightful  writer  of  comedy.     Take  the  scene  which  gives  its 
title  to  his  present  play.      It  is  a  scene  which  illustrates  the 
difficulties  and  the  humours  of  co-operative  lying.     A  cock- 
and-bull   story  has  to  be    concerted    in    order  to  deceive  a 
husband  as  to  the  whereabouts  of  his  wife  on  the  previous 
evening.     The  task  presents  no  difficulty  to  the  women  of  the 
play.     They    concoct     a     taradiddle,    as    the     jolly     young 
waterman     feathered    his    oars,     with     ease     and    dexterity. 
But  their   husbands  arrive,  and  with    the   entry  of  the  men 
comes  hesitation,  blundering,   a   break    in   the  game.     Some 
of  them   object  to  lying  per  se.    Others  are  willing  enough, 
but    unimaginative    and   inarticulate.     And   we   here  get   an 
amusing  glimpse  of  one  of  the  typical  encounters  in  the  great 


THE  TH£AtRE  IN  LONDON.  8l 

duel  of  sex.  The  women  are  put  out  of  temper  at  the  men's 
want  of  skill ;  the  men  are  amazed  and  humiliated  by  the 
fluency  and  fertility  of  resource  in  the  women.  Ultimately  a 
form  of  lie  is  agreed  upon — and  the  fib  gets  itself  told  by 
the  sweetest,  most  artless,  childlike  and  bland  lady  of  the 
company.  Here  are  half  a  dozen  liars  on  the  stage  at  once, 
each  with  her  or  his  idiosyncrasy,  all  made  to  unite  in  a 
common  end  by  the  skill  of  the  dramatist.  Mr.  Jones,  I 
repeat,  has  educated  himself  into  a  delightful  writer  of  comedy. 
But  his  active  temperament,  though  kept  in  check,  cannot  be 
altogether  got  rid  of ;  it  peeps  out  in  the  sentiment,  in  the 
somewhat  too  solemn  passion  of  Des  Kyons'  clients,  the  lady 
and  her  lover.  The  lover,  particularly,  is  far  too  tragic  for  a 
comedy.  A  little  irony  infused  into  the  sketch  of  him  would 
have  made  all  the  difference.  But  Mr.  Jones  has  shown 
himself  of  so  quick  and  docile  an  apprehension  that  I  do  not 
despair  of  seeing  him  correct  his  sentimentalism,  and  even 
take  his  place  among  the  mordant  Ironei'sts. 

I  spoke  just  now  of  the  widely  different  attitudes  proper  to 
comedy  and  serious  drama  in  regard  to  social  conventions. 
Comedy,  being  the  expression  of  the  current  and  superficial 
common  sense,  may — or  rather  must — accept  as  true,  conven- 
tions which  serious  drama,  going    beneath  the  surface,  and 
expressing  the  reaction  of  the   individual  against  society,  is 
equally  bound  to  reject  as  false.     It  was  right  for  the  author 
of  "  The  Liars  "  to  take  for  granted  the  convention  that  a  wife 
should  be  prevented  from  eloping  with  a  good   man,  even 
though  her  husband  is  a  bore  and  a  bully.     But  it  is  wrong 
for   Mr.   Carton,  the  author  of   ''The  Tree  of  Knowledge," 
which  is  not  a  comedy,  to  take  for  granted  the  parallel  con- 
vention  that  a  wife  should  be  prevented  from    leaving    her 
husband  even  though  she  is  a  vicious  animal,  whose  presence 
in   the   home  is  not  a  blessing  but  a  curse.     Obviously — to 
right  reason — the  husband  would  be  well  quit  of  this  noxious 
Duraasian  "  bete,"  this  "  guenon  de  Nod."    Yet  the  hero  of  the 
play,  and  the  husband's  best  friend,  does  his  best  to  prevent 
her  departure,  and  even  goes  so  far  as  to  half -strangle  her  in 
the  attempt.     To  be  sure,  this  attempt  gives  the    hero    the 

VOL,  IX. — NO.  XXV.  () 


82  eosMoPoLiS. 

chance  of  striking  a  noble  attitude,  and  I  fear  that  is  all 
Mr.  Carton  is  concerned  about — the  postures,  winning  or 
augusty  of  his  personage.  Behind  him  I  seem  to  see  the 
photographer  taking  aim  with  a  camera.  I  look  automatically 
for  the  draped  curtain,  the  vase  of  flowers,  the  little  slate  upon 
which  the  "  subject "  is  requested  to  **  keep  his  eye."  A 
younger  playwright,  Mr.  L.  N.  Parker,  lays  himself  open,  in 
**The  Happy  Home,"  to  something  of  the  same  reproach. 
He  unhesitatingly  accepts  two  conventions  :  (i)  that  a  young 
woman  who  passes  the  night  under  a  young  man's  roof,  in 
no  matter  what  circumstances — even  though  she  is  insensible 
from  a  fall,  and  is  merely  being  tended  by  the  young  man  as 
a  patient — counts  as  an  honest  woman  no  longer  ;  and  (2) 
that  a  young  couple,  ardently  loving  one  another,  can  pass 
through  their  whole  honeymoon  under  the  firm  conviction 
that  they  are  each  hateful  to  the  other.  Both  conventions 
are  clearly  absurd.  Mr.  Parker  shows  us  a  far  better  speci- 
men of  his  work — which,  let  me  say  in  passing,  is  always 
respectable,  and  sometimes  admirable,  work — in  his  '*  Vaga- 
bond King,"  a  rehandling  of  the  theme  of  *'  Les  Rois  en 
Exil,"  with  many  original  variations,  not  the  least  of  which 
is  an  optimistic  conclusion. 

Among  the  minor  productions  of  the  past  quarter,  Mr. 
Esmond's  "  One  Summer's  Day " — a  fresh  and  dainty,  if 
unduly  "  theatrical,"  sentimentalism,  notable  among  other 
things  for  its  successful  presentation  of  one  of  the  most 
joyous  of  our  comedians,  Mr.  Charles  Hawtrey,  in  a  quasi- 
serious  part— is  entitled  to  honourable  mention  ;  and  "The 
Cat  and  the  Cherub,"  an  American  study  of  Chinese  life  in 
San  Francisco — a  strange  amalgam  of  brutal  butchery,  elegant 
Confucian  philosophy,  and  mellifluous  compliment — gratified 
jaded  playgoers  with  a  new  thrill. 

Arthur  B.  Walkley. 


THE   GLOBE   AND   THE    ISLAND. 


London,  December  20. 

LC'  style  f  cest  l' ho  mine.      If  this  famous  utterance  be  true,  the 
G-erman  Emperor  stands  to-day  self-revealed.     For  so  remark- 
able a  specimen  of  Imperial  style  has  not  been  given  to  Europe 
in  this  century  as  that  which  preluded  the  departure  of  Prince 
hi  enry  for  China,  not  only  as  regards  the   words  which  the 
Emperor  himself  employed,  but  even  more   for  those  which 
he  permitted  to  be  addressed  to  him.    The  latter  approach 
those    invocations    which   in    this    country   we    are    accus- 
tomed to  utter  to  the  Supreme  Being,  but  there  is  no  surer 
ground   of   error  than   to  institute  comparison    between  the 
matters  of  taste  of  different  peoples.     Every  nation  has  its  own 
peculiarities,  and  these  often  appear  either  absurd  or  outrageous 
to  others.      The    Frenchman    enters   a   public    conveyance, 
salutes  those  whom  he  finds  there,  and  enters  into  a  brisk  con- 
versation.     The   Englishman   regards    him    as    an    effusive 
chatterer.     An   Englishman    will  travel  across  Europe  in    a 
railway  compartment  with  another  Englishman,  without  more 
than  a  word  being  exchanged.     The  Frenchman  regards  them 
^  a  couple  of  morose  boors.     Prince  Henry  proceeds  specially 
to  Friedrichsruh  to  kiss  Prince  Bismarck.     Imagination  reels 
^    I      ^t  the  thought  of  the  Duke  of  Connaught  kissing  Lord  Salis- 
bury.   Yet  the  kiss  or  its  absence  makes  no  difference  to  the 
respect  otherwise  due  to  each  pair  of  men.     Nil  constietudinc 
*^juSf  or  as  Schiller  put  it,  custom  is  man's  nurse.    The  Ger- 
^n  Emperor  told  the  Reichstag  that  his  interest  in  the  new 
national  development  could  be  judged  from  the  fact  that  he 
^^  '^  staked  his  only   brother."      He   exclaimed  to   Prince 
Henry : — "Should  any  one  attempt  to  affront  us,  or  to  infringe 


84  COSMOPOLIS. 

our  good  rights,  then  strike  out  with  mailed  fist,  and,  if  God 
will,  weave  round  your  young  brow  the  laurel  which  no- 
body in  the  whole  German  Empire  will  begrudge  you," 
And  Prince  Henry,  in  response,  addressed  his  brother  as 
"  Most  Serene  Emperor,  most  Powerful  King  and  Lord,"  and 
'*  Our  most  Serene,  Mighty,  Beloved  Emperor,  King  and 
Master,  for  ever  and  ever  ! "  He  assured  the  Emperor  that  he 
well  knew  the  sacrifice  he  was  making  in  staking  him,  the 
speaker,  and  said,  **  To  your  Majesty  the  Imperial  Crown  has 
come  with  thorns."  Finally,  he  announced  that  his  aim  would 
be  **  to  declare  in  foreign  lands  the  Gospel  of  your  Majesty's 
hallowed  person  (dus  Eiangelinni  Eiircr  Majestdt  geheiligtcr 
Person  iin  Auslaudc  zu  kundcu)**  If  to  the  German  people 
all  this  language  appears  to  be  warranted  by  the  occasion  and 
appropriate  to  the  subject,  for  a  foreigner  to  criticise  it  would 
be  probably  unintelligent  and  certainly  unprofitable.  The  facts 
which  evoked  it  are,  however,  common  property. 

The  German  squadron  which  has  just  sailed  for  the  China, 
seas  consists  of  the  Dcutschland,  an  iron  vessel  of  7,676  tons^ 
built  on  the  Thames  in  1874,  and  refitted  twenty  years  later — 2l 
battleship  when  she  was  constructed,  but  according  to  the  most- 
modern  classification  only  a  protected  cruiser  ;  and  the  Gefion  ^ 
a  protected  cruiser  of  4,108   tons,  built   at   Danzig   in    1893  — 
A     merchant     steamer     is     also    taking    out    1,200    marine 
under  the  command  of  Major  von  Lossow,  a  company  of  coas 
defence  artillery,  surgeons,  paymasters,  telegraph  artificers,  &(P  - 
When  all  have  arrived,  Germany  will  have  in  China  : — (i)  \v^ 
the  first  cruiser  division,  under  the  command  of  Vice-Admira-J 
von  Diederichs,  1,642  men  ;  (2)  in  the  second  cruiser  divisiom^ , 
under  the   command   of  Prince   Henry,  1,364  men  ;    (3)  oc^ 
board  the  station  ship  Cormorant  160  men  ;  (4)  a  detachment 
of  marines,   1,200  men  ;  (5)  coast  defence  artillery,  200  men    1 
making  a  total  of  4,566.     Her  fleet  there  will  consist,  besides* 
the  Deutschland  and  the  Gefion,  of  the  Kaiser,  sister-ship  to  th^ 
Dcutschland,  the  first-class  cruiser  Kaiserin  Augusta,  6,300  tons^* 
the   second-class   cruiser  Irene,  4,400  tons,   and  the  PrinzcsS 

Wilhelm,  her  sister-ship,  and  the  third-class  cruiser  Arconct^p 
2,370  tons. 

Now,  Germany  is  in  full  and  unopposed  possession  of  Kiaa^ 


THE  GLOBE  AND  THE  ISLAND.  85 

chao   Bay  and  the  adjacent  mainland,  including  the  Chinese 
walled   town.      The   Chinese  troops  fled,    of   course,   as  the 
Germans  landed,  and  not  a  blow  was  struck.     Nor  is  there  any 
probability  that  China  will  fire  a  single  shot,  no  matter  what 
action  the  German  forces  may  take.     What  is  the   meaning, 
therefore,  of  this  talk  about  the  "  mailed  fist,"  and  this  defiant 
declaration  that  "the  German  Michael  has  firmly  planted  his 
shield  with  the  device  of  the  German  Eagle  upon  the  soil  '*  ? 
If  Germany  is  to  be  left  undisturbed  at  Kiao-chao,  it  was  far 
from  necessary.     As  a  stimulus  to  help  the  naval  programme 
through  the  Reichstag,  it  seems  excessive,  although,  since  the 
Catholic  Centre  holds  the  balance  of  power  there,  one  fully 
understands  the  cordial  exchange  of  telegrams  between  the 
Emperor  and  the  Cardinal  Archbishop  of  Breslau.      We  are 
driven   to   wonder,   therefore,   whether  anybody   is   likely   to 
disturb  Germany  at  Kiao-chao,  or  whether  she  is  going  some- 
where else,  where  opposition  may  be  expected.     At  whom,  in 
other  words,  was  this  "  mailed  fist  "  shaken  ?     It  is  difficult  to 
imagine.     Not  at  England,  Russia,  or  Japan,  for  the  German 
squadron    could    not    remain  afloat  half-an-hour  if  attacked 
by  the  Far  Eastern  fleet  of  any  one  of   these.     England,  for 
instance,  has  (or  shortly  will  have)  on  the  spot  the  Centuriofi, 
first-class  battleship  of  10,500  tons,  the  Potcerful,  14,200  tons, 
the  Grafton,  7,350  tons,  the  Edgar,  7,350  tons,  the  hnmortalit^, 
5,600  tons,  iht  Narcissus,  5,600  tons,  the  Undaunted,  5,600  tons, 
first-class  cruisers ;    the  Rainbow,  4,360  tons,  the   Iphigcnia^ 
3»6oo  tons,  and  the  Pique,  3,600  tons,  second-class   cruisers  ; 
seven  gunboats,  four  torpedo-boat  destroyers,  and  a  number 
of  smaller  craft.     The  vigorous  expression,  "  F^/i/d  hinein  wit 
i^anzerter  Faust  ! "   cannot  be  meant  to    hurl    the   German 
squadron  to  instant  destruction  against  such  a  force  as  this. 
And  the  Russian  and  Japanese   fleets  would  show  a  similar 
disproportion.     Germany  niust  design  her  ships  and  men  for 
another  purpose. 

The  clerical  journal.  Das  Vaterland,  has  described  the  seizure 
of  Kiao-chao  as  "  the  prelude  to  the  partition  of  China."  The 
partition  of  China,  says  the  Russian  Korosti,  will  proceed  much 
niore  rapidly  than  the  dissolution  of  Turkey.  Can  this  be  the 
eventuality  in  view  ?     Have   the    Powers  agreed  to  disregard 


I 


86  COSMOPOLIS. 

Japan  and  her  ambitions,  and  proceed  to  apportion  China,  like 
an  Asiatic  Poland,  among  themselves  ?  And  does  Germany 
simply  wish  to  be  strong  enough  to  occupy  effectively  her  own 
slice  ?  These  re-arrangements  of  the  map  are  always  very 
attractive  to  political  theorisers,  but,  for  my  part,  I  do  not 
believe  in  this  one.  A  plausible  argument  is  of  course  that 
to-day  the  Powers  can  act,  if  united,  without  considering  Japan, 
whereas,  if  they  wait  a  few  years,  Japan  will  possess  the  second 
most  powerful  fleet  in  the  world.  The  statesmen  of  Europe 
know%  too,  how  difficult  would  be  an  alliance  between 
England  and  Japan.  But  the  partition  of  China  would  be  a 
very  big  job,  not  to  be  accomplished  even  now  without 
a  fight  for  the  lion's  share,  in  which  Japan  would  certainly 
take  part  ;  and  Russia  has  in  the  Far  East,  as  in  th 
Near  East,  every  reason  to  await  with  confidence  the  dis 
integrating  effect  of  time.  It  is  safe  to  guess  that  amon 
the  pigeon-holes  of  her  ambition  there"  is  a  plan  t 
raise  a  vast  army  in  China  under  Russian  officers,  with  itfc^srs 
face  and  its  rifles  turned  towards  India.  No,  the  partition  ot:  W 
China  is  not  the  explanation,  and  I  cannot  imagine  what  i^^  s 
—  if,  indeed,  there  is  any  explanation  at  all  beyond  the  ne^ 
German  navy  demanded  from  the  Reichstag.  It  is  useless  t( 
seek  for  combinations  in  which  England  is  taking  a  part 
England,  so  far  as  the  Foreign  Office  is  concerned,  i=r  s 
probably  twiddling  her  thumbs. 

It  is  perfectly  certain  that  Russia  will  dislike  a  German  nava^^' 
base  so  near  to  Northern  China,  which  she  regards  as  alread^^y 
virtually  incorporated  in  the  Russian  Empire.  Her  suddei 
occupation  of  Port  Arthur  shows  this  clearly.  By  the  Cassii 
Convention  of  1895 — of  which  the  readers  of  COSMOPOLIS  havi 
heard  much  in  this  chronique — she  secured  the  reversion  ti 
Port  Arthur,  when  it  should  suit  her  convenience  to  take  i1 
Germany  has  forced  this  course  prematurely  upon  her.  Th- 
German  Press  tries  to  show  that  Russia's  action  proves 
entente.  It  seems  to  me  to  prove  the  contrary.  As  for  th 
Russian  explanation  that  the  occupation  is  merely  to  secur^^ 
some  place  for  her  ships  to  pass  the  winter,  it  i^ 
laughable.  They-  have  often  passed  the  winter  elsewhere^ 
PVitsid^     the     frozen   harbour    of    Vladivostok — at   Nagasaki/ 


THE  GLOBE   AND  THE   ISLAND.  87 

for  instance.  The  occupation  means  neither  more  nor 
less  than  "  Hands  oflf  Northern  China  !  "  It  is  the  "  mailed 
fist "  of  Russia,  in  reply  to  the  "  mailed  fist "  of  Germany. 
An  entente  may  arise  from  it,  with  France  included,  but  for  the 
present  it  is  simply  Russia's  obvious  move  on  the  board  in 
reply  to  Germany's  "  world-policy "  in  the  Far  East.  Japan, 
of  course,  is  in  occupation  of  Wei-hai-wei,  exactly  opposite 
Port  Arthur,  until  the  rest  of  the  war  indemnity  is  paid.  She 
will  hardly  be  induced  to  retire  from  there  under  present 
circumstances.  The  Continental  Press  is  naturally  asking  with 
flattering  unanimity,  "  What  will  England  do  ?  " 

It  has  long  been  obvious  to  all  students  of  the  Far  East 
that  England  stands  in  great  need  of  a  naval  base  at  least  a 
thousand  miles  north  of  Hong  Kong,  and  that  in  Chusan,  near 
the  mouth  of  the  Yangtse  river,  such  a  base  is  ready  to  her 
hand.     It   commands   the  heart  of  China,  it  has   hardlv  anv 
population  or  trade,  it   could  be  made  impregnable   without 
difficulty,  it  was  occupied  and  ceded  again  by  us,  and  by  a 
Convention  with  China  in  1846  the  latter  is   bound  not  to 
cede  it  to  any  other  Power,  and  we  are  bound  to  defend  it  for 
her  against  attack.     I  have  advocated  this  step  for  six  years, 
therefore  I  am  delighted  to  see  that  TIte  Times  is  now  advis- 
ing   it.      "We  have  no  intention,"  said    The  Times  recently, 
**  of  denying  the  force   of   the    arguments  which  have   been 
advanced   in   Germany  to  show   the   necessity   of   a   coaling 
station  in  Far  Eastern  waters  to  serve  as  a  point  cVappni  for 
her  fleet.     But  these  same  arguments,  as  far  as  they  are  valid, 
imply  a  redistribution  of  the  balance  of  power  in  those  regions 
to  which  Great  Britain,  with  her  vast  commercial   interests  in 
China  and  Japan,  cannot  remain  indifferent."     A  news  agency 
recently  circulated  the  statement  that  England  was  negotiating 
with  China  for  a  piece  of  the  mainland  opposite  Hong  Kong. 
Many  English  papers  innocently  printed  this,  and  the  German 
Press  based  a   fine    argument   upon    it.     It   was,  of    course, 
absurd.     England  has    possessed   three    square  miles  of  that 
mainland   since  1863.     A  steam    ferry   runs   backwards   and 
forwards  to  it  from  Hong  Kong  every  half-hour.     One  news- 
paper suggests  we  should  take  Macao,  where  the  harbour  is 
silted  up  !      But  the  balance  of   power  to  which   The  Times 


88  COSMOPOLIS. 

alludes  is  a  vital  matter  for  British  commerce  and  security  in 
the  Far  East,  and  we  cannot  afford  to  let  the  scale  be  turned 
against  us.  In  China,  more  than  anywhere  else,  trade  is 
maintained  by  '*  influence/'  and  our  trade,  amounting  over  to 
;^3 2,000,000  sterling  per  annum,  is  3/4  times  greater  than 
that  of  all  other  nations  put  together.  Therefore,  the  German 
Emperor's  new  policy  may  precipitate  great  events  after  all, 
though  we  cannot  forecast  their  nature.  We  must  content 
ourselves,  for  six  weeks  or  so,  with  enjoying,  like  the  boy  with 
the  damp  fireworks,  a  period  of  "  'orrid  uncertainty."  Many 
of  us  would  greatly  rejoice  at  this  juncture  to  be  afforded  a 
glimpse  of  the  "  mailed  fist "  of  England. 

Meanwhile,  this  seems  a  good  opportunity  to  make  a  remark 
called  for  by  the  language  of  a  section  of  the  English  Press. 
It  is  becoming  the  fashion  to  attach  comparatively  little  im- 
portance to  the  plans  and  utterances  of  the  German  Emperor. 
There  appears  to  be  a  settled  belief  that  he  acts  and  speaks  on 
impulse,  without  reflection,  and  that  his  line  of  policy  is  subject 
to  corresponding  and  constant  deviations.  In  fact,  to  put  it 
bluntly,  we,  as  a  people,  are  getting  into  the  habit  of  laughing 
at  him.  There  could  hardly  be  a  more  foolish  or  a  more 
dangerous  mistake.  Not  even  a  German  would  deny 
that  His  Majesty  speaks  impulsively,  and  that  his  enthu- 
siasms succeed  each  other  with  almost  startling  rapidity. 
But  this  is  part  of  the  superficial  manifestations  of  genius. 
For  the  German  Emperor  is  a  man  of  genius.  More  than 
that,  he  is  a  man  of  great  courage,  great  energy,  great 
ability,  great  ambition,  and  great  confidence  ;  and  he  com- 
mands the  greatest  fighting  force  that  exists.  He  is  probably, 
to  take  but  one  example,  the  best  and  most  experienced 
cavalry  leader  in  the  world.  His  handling  of  10,000  cavalry 
at  the  last  manoeuvres  positively  startled  the  foreign  military 
attaches.  It  may  well  be  that  he  will  yet  make  history.  We 
should  hope  that  this  will  not  be  at  our  expense.  Our  press 
and  people  have  often  treated  him  both  unfairly  and  vulgarly. 
We  are  entitled  to  resent  some  of  his  actions  ;  we  may  be 
justified  in  feeling  some  fear  of  him  ;  merely  to  laugh  at  him 
is  the  act  of  a  fool. 


THE  GLOBE   AND  THE   ISLAND.  89 

The  Indian  frontier  campaign  has  now  been  brought  to  a 
close  by  the  winter.  Half  of  Sir  William  Lockharfs  force  is  con- 
centrated twelve  miles  from  Fort  Bara,  there  to  await,  under 
circumstances  of  considerable  discomfort,  the  moment  when 
spring  shall  permit  operations  to  be  recommenced.  Deplor- 
able as  the  truth  is,  it  had  best  be  frankly  stated.  Ever  since 
the  British  troops  entered  the  Afridi  Tirah,  the  campaign 
has  been  from  almost  every  point  of  view  a  serious  failure. 
Happily,  this  is  in  no  way  the  fault  of  those  engaged  in  it. 
Never  in  the  history  of  British  wars  have  our  officers  and  men 
exhibited  a  cooler  heroism,  or  met  almost  insupportable  diffi- 
culties with  more  tenacity  and  resource.  A  hundred  Victoria 
Crosses  have  been  deserved,  where  two  or  three  will  be  given. 
Although  we  have  learned  from  experience,  too,  to  look 
for  the  highest  order  of  courage  and  devotion  from  our  Indian 
troops,  their  demeanour  this  autumn  under  conditions  of 
unparalleled  difficulty  and  hardship  has  raised  them  higher 
than  ever  before  in  our  admiration  and  esteem.  But  success 
in  the  operations  now  concluded  was  beyond  the  reach  of  man. 
To  begin  with,  the  physical  difficulties  of  the  country  have 
been  almost  inconceivable.  Its  topography  was  unknown,  in 
many  cases  there  were  no  roads  at  all,  sheer  mountains  and 
boulder-strewn  valleys  recalled  the  Montenegrin  saying  that 
God  was  carrying  all  the  stones  of  the  world  in  a  bag  over 
their  country,  and  the  bag  burst ;  and  bitter  cold,  combined 
with  lack  of  coverings,  has  placed  the  highest  strain  upon 
human  endurance.  The  tribesmen  have  all  along  fought 
with  desperate  valour,  and  their  military  hardihood  has 
even  increased  as  the  campaign  progressed.  The  very 
last  incident  of  it  was  that  a  body  of  Afridis  almost  flung 
themselves  upon  British  bayonets.  We  have,  it  is  true, 
visited  highland  strongholds  hitherto  believed  inaccessible  ;  we 
have  blown  up  many  towers  and  destroyed  villages,  and  several 
of  the  tribes  have  been  successfully  compelled  to  accept  our 
lenient  terms.  But  the  Afridis  themselves — the  men  who  kept 
the  Khyber  Pass  open  for  us  and  took  our  subsidies  for 
sixteen  years — have  been  so  far  unsubdued  that  it  is  certain 
they  regard  themselves  as  having  driven  us  ignominiously 
from  their  country.    Almost  every  one  of  our  advances,  pushed 


90  COSMOPOLIS. 

splendidly  home  in  the  teeth  of  destructive  opposition,  has 
been  followed  by  a  retreat  which  to  the  enemy  must  have  had 
all  the  appearance  of  a  defeat.  Twice  have  considerable 
bodies  of  our  men  been  cut  off  and  annihilated,  and  our 
losses,  especially  in  officers,  throughout  the  whole  campaign 
have  been  almost  disastrous.  The  enemy  has  been  well  pro- 
vided with  rifles  and  ammunition  (including  a  number  of  Lee- 
Metfords),  and  on  many  occasions  they  have  cut  off  part  of  our 
convoys.  Unfortunately,  moreover,  the  worst  has  not  yet  been 
told  about  this  campaign.  Letters  coming  from  India,  and  re- 
turning soldiers,  bring  details  far  worse  than  any  that  have  been 
published.  The  breakdown  of  transport,  and  the  serious  suffer- 
ings of  our  troops,  are  painfully  described  ;  and,  what  is  worse, 
there  is  too  good  reason  to  fear  that  the  long  neglect  to  insist 
upon  a  proper  standard  of  knowledge  and  training  in  our 
regimental  officers  has  on  more  than  one  occasion  resulted  in 
unnecessary  loss  of  life  and  in  military'  failure.  Of  this  we 
shall  probably  hear  more  in  due  time.  The  final  result  is  that 
our  magnificent  frontier  force — a  bigger  army,  as  has  been 
often  pointed  out,  than  Wellington  commanded  either  in  the 
Peninsula  or  at  Waterloo — is  now  reduced  to  inactivity  until 
February  or  March,  when  the  whole  situation  will  have  to  be 
faced  afresh. 

I  should  not  venture,  not  being  a  military  expert,  to  make 
these  serious  assertions  solely  on  my  own  authority.  The  facts, 
however,  are  admitted  by  almost  every  expert.  The  corre- 
spondents at  the  front  cannot  conceal  the  general  disappoint- 
ment, and  some  of  them  have  not  hesitated  to  criticise  the 
operations  with  unmistakable  justice.  Here,  for  example,  is  an 
extract  from  a  very  able  letter  by  The  Daily  News  correspondent 
with,  the  force  : — 

The  political  question  of  occupation  is  one  which,  it  I  mistake  not,  will 
cause  sooner  or  later  a  ^reat  deal  of  troublesome  discussion.  Everj'one 
must  see  that  the  expedition  up  to  now  has  failed  in  its  punitive  object. 
The  tribes  have  lost  little  by  our  invasion  of  their  summer  quarters — some 
houses  built  of  mud  and  stone,  easily  reconstructed,  and  some  quantities 
of  grain.  In  one  sense  they  have  not  even  been  driven  from  their  homes, 
for  it  is  their  invariable  habit  to  evacuate  the  Tirah  Maidan  in  November, 
and  descend  to  the  warmer  valleys.  So  the  jeer  with  which  the  most  dis- 
affected of  the  Afridi  clans  (the  Zakka  Khels)  greeted  Sir  William  Lockhart's 
invitation  to  send  a  deputation,  that  *'  we  were  quite  free,  if  we  pleased. 


THE  GLOBE  AND  THE   ISLAND.  9! 

to  stay  in  their  siimmtT  quarters  for  the  winter."  has  some  truth  in  it. 
Many  hold  that  if  the  object  of  the  expedition  is  to  be  attained  in  any 
sense,  a  force  must  be  left  in  Tirah — or  else  must  return  in  the  spring  and 
cut  the  crops  and  harass  the  country'  once  more ;  that  if  the  force  were 
immediately  to  evacuate  the  country  the  expedition  would  have  failed  in 
punishing  the  tribes.  Their  loss  of  life  has,  unquestionably,  been  less  than 
ours.  Men  who  lie  behind  rocks,  who  never  defend  a  position  when  .there 
is  no  other  position  beyond  to  which  they  can  retreat  in  a  moment,  who 
never  stand  to  face  an  attack  at  close  quarters,  and  who  never  expose  them- 
selves for  a  moment,  cannot  suffer  such  losses  as  their  attackers,  who  are 
forced,  in  storming  positions,  to  expose  themselves  to  a  wonderfully 
accurate  fire,  who  are  not  skilled  at  taking  cover  in  the  hills,  and  are 
perpetually  giving  themselves  into  the  enemy's  hands  by  straying  at  night. 
There  are  a  few  who  say  that  it  is  no  mean  thing  to  have  entered  the 
Afridi  country,  which,  as  they  love  to  boast,  was  impregnable  ;  that  we 
liave  lowered  their  pride,  and  shown  them  our  power.  It  appears  to  the 
rest,  however,  that  if  we  can  deal  them  no  more  materially  unpleasant 
blow  than  this  we  have  sadly  failed  in  our  sacrifices. 

And  The  Times  correspondent,  writing  on  November  26, 
said  : — 

As  the  proof  of  a  pudding  is  in  the  eating,  so  if  we  go  through  the 
record  of  our  three  weeks  at  Maidan  and  total  up  our  gains  and  losses, 
moral  as  well  as  physical,  and  estimate  what  theirs  have  been,  and  then 
strike  a  baLince,  I  have  no  hesitation  in  saying  it  will  not  be  in  our  favour. 

The  military  critic  of  The  Daily  Chronicle,  Mr.  Charles 
Williams,  regarded  in  service  circles  as  the  most  experienced 
and  informed  civilian  writer  upon  military  matters,  com- 
menting upon  the  retirement  down  the  Bara  Valley  to  Barkai, 
summarises  the  campaign  as  follows  : — 

In  every  bazaar  in  Central  Asia  this  will  be  represented  as  the  Afridis 
driving  the  British  out  of  their  country.  There  is,  indeed,  no  other 
explanation  of  the  matter  from  the  native  point  of  view.  And  if  we  say 
the  Afridis  and  their  most  potent  ally  the  winter  have  done  so,  what  does 
it  matter  in  effect  ?  The  campaign,  which  up  till  last  Saturday  was 
L'stimated  to  have  cost  thirty-five  millions  of  rupees  for  two  months'  work 
— and  that  sum,  we  may  be  very  sure,  does  not  include  contingencies — 
was  perhaps  begun  too  late  or  too  much  has  been  attempted.  At  any 
rate,  though  we  have  won  every  fight  whatever  the  odds,  here  is  the 
result : — We  are  beaten  back  to  within  five-and-twenty  miles  of  our  great 
position  at  Peshawiir,  and  in  the  last  of  it  our  men,  British  and  native, 
have  had  to  undergo  sufferings  of  which  the  end  is  not  yet,  for  no  troops 
in  the  world  can  undergo  exposure  of  this  sort  without  serious  after- 
effects. 

And  now  thut  we  have  got  the  columns  back  to  the  points  at  which  the 
Afridis  have  been  in  the  habit  of  coming  down  to  winter,  we  shall  be 
doing  no  good  for  at  least  four  months,  unless  keeping  the  brave  enemy 
out  of  their  shelters  can  be  called  doing  good.  We  are  nearer  to  our 
original  bise,  and  our  troops  can  be  fed  and  properly  clothed  with  ease  ; 
but  we  are  no  nearer  to  getting  the  mastery  over  the  Afridi  Pathans,  the 


92  COSMOPOLIS. 

Zakkas,  and  the  rest  of  them.  For  four  months  we  shall  be  spending 
quite  twenty  million  rupees  a  month  with  the  prospect  of  having  to  begin 
the  work  of  destruction  again  in  the  late  spring.  The  courage  and 
enterprise  of  our  officers,  the  heroism  of  Britons  and  Sikhs  and  Goorkhas 
and  Punjabi  Mussulmans  and  Pathans  themselves  on  our  side,  has 
accomplished  the  reduction  of  the  Orakzais,  who  were  never  more  than 
half-hearted  in  the  mattL'r,  and  has  left  more  than  half  the  Afridis  still 
further  embittered  against  us  than  they  were  when  tlie  indiscretion  of  the 
"  Politicals  "  dragged  us  into  this  trouble.  Moreover,  this  at  the  very  best 
negative  result  has  been  accomplished  with  a  display  of  force  which 
we  could  not  have  surpassed  had  we  been  going  to  conquer  Afghanistan, 
or  to  meet  Russian  columns  in  the  Ameer's  territorv.  For  not  onlv  have 
the  troops  been  brought  up  from  other  commands — Bengal,  Bombay. 
Madras — but  we  hear  the  force  necessiirily  remaining  in  India  have  been 
denuded  of  all  their  transport,  as  far  away  as  Madras,  so  that,  if  anything 
happened,  they  would  not  be  able  to  take  the  field  until  new  transport  had 
been  created. 

Even  The  Standard,  most  anxious,  of  course,  for  the  sake  of 
the  Government,  to  place  the  best  construction  possible  upon 
the  facts,  made  the  following  admissions  in  a  leading  article 
two  days  ago  : — 

The  spirit  and  tenacity  of  the  hillmen  appear  to  be  rising  as  they  see 
our  forces  abandoning  the  advanced  positions  gained  with  so  much  effort 
and  so  much  sacrifice.  They  do  not  understand  that  this  partial  withdrawal 
is  strictly  in  accordance  with  the  strategic  scheme  formed  by  the  Indian 
military  authorities,  and,  in  spite  of  the  heavy  losses  they  have  had  to 
endure,  they  probably  fail  to  regard  themselves  as  the  beaten  party.  .  .  . 
The  severe  punishment  inflicted  by  (ieneral  Westmacott's  gallant  little 
force  may  have  produced  some  moral  effect ;  but  it  is  to  be  feared  that 
this  will  be  considerably  discounted  by  the  spectacle  of  the  withdrawal  of 
the  invading  army. 

Now,  a  tew  weeks  ago  The  Standard  made  a  cynical,  but 
obviously  true  remark,  which  should  be  remembered  in  this 
connection.  The  writer  was  replying  to  Liberal  criticisms 
upon  the  retention  of  Chitral.  All  this  criticism,  said  the 
Tory  journal  in  effect,  is  beside  the  mark.  The  Govern- 
ment will  not  be  defeated  over  Chitral  ;  its  fate  is  being 
decided  at  this  moment  in  the  Afridi  highlands.  This  state- 
ment being  indisputably  true,  my  foreign  readers  will  realise 
from  what  has  been  said  that  the  virtual  failure  of  the  frontier 
operations  places  Lord  Salisbury's  Government  in  a  position  of 
some  risk  at  home.  If  the  warfare  had  resulted  in  a  triumphant 
success,  its  policy  would  have  been  justified  in  all  men's  eyes. 
As  the  result  has  been  bad,  the  policy  is  held  accountable  for 
it,  and  the  Government  is  responsible  for  the  policy.     It  is 


THE  GLOBE  AND  THE   ISLAND.  93 

claimed  by  Lord  Salisbury's  supporters  that  their  Indian 
frontier  policy  is  approved  by  the  highest  military  authorities  ; 
but  Sir  Neville  Chamberlain,  whom  I  have  previously  quoted 
as  the  most  experienced  frontier  officer  living,  has  openly 
denounced  it ;  and  Sir  John  Adye,  who  fought  throughout 
the  Crimean  War,  the  Indian  Mutiny,  the  Indian  frontier 
campaign  of  1863,  and  the  Egyptian  campaign  of  1882,  has 
just  published  a  work  on  "  Indian  Frontier  Policy  "  (London: 
Smith,  Elder  &  Co.),  in  which  he  concludes  as  follows  : — 

On  the  whole,  it  appears  to  me  that  we  should  as  far  as  possible  with- 
draw our  isolated  posts,  so  many  of  which  are  either  within  the  tribal 
country  or  along  its  borders.  It  is  sometimes  argued  that  any  with- 
drawal on  our  part  would  have  a  demoralising  effect  on  the  tribes, 
who  would  ascribe  our  retirement  to  inabihty  to  maintain  our 
positions.  The  best  reply  will  perhaps  be  to  quote  the  words 
of  I^rd  Hartington,  when  under  similar  circumstances  it  was  decided 
in  1 881  to  retire  from  Kandahar.  He  said: — "The  moral  effect 
of  a  scrupulous  adherence  to  declarations  which  have  been  made,  and  a 
striking  and  convincing  proof  given  to  the  people  and  princes  of  India 
that  the  British  Government  have  no  desire  for  further  annexation  of 
territory,  could  not  fail  to  produce  a  most  salutary  effect,  in  removing  the 
apprehensions  and  strengthening  the  attachment  of  our  native  allies 
throughout  India  and  on  our  frontiers."  I  have  endeavoured  to  prove 
that  the  tribes  on  the  frontier,  and  the  people  of  Afghanistan,  have  no  real 
power  of  injuring  our  position  in  India  ;  and  turbulent  as  they  may  be,  a 
policy  of  patience,  conciliation,  and  subsidies  is  far  more  likely  to  attain 
our  object  than  incessant  costly  expeditions  into  their  mountains.  Our 
inHuence  over  them  is  already  great,  and  is  increasing  year  by  year.  By 
carefully  maintaining  the  principles  I  have  sketched  out,  we  shall  gradually 
obtain  their  friendship,  and  also  their  support,  should  other  dangers  ever 
threaten  our  dominions.  We  are  the  rulers  of  a  great  Empire  in  the 
Kast,  with  its  heavy  duties  and  responsibilities,  and  in  devoting  ourselves 
to  the  welfare  of  the  millions  under  our  sway,  and  in  developing  the 
resources  of  the  country,  we  shall  do  far  more  for  the  happiness  of  the 
people  and  the  security  of  the  Empire  than  by  squandering  our  finances  in 
constant  expeditions  beyond  its  borders. 

Lord  Roberts  may  have  modified  the  views  he  held  about 
the  frontier  seventeen  years  ago,  but  it  is  freely  said  in 
London  that  Lord  Wolseley,  the  Commander-in-Chief ; 
Sir  Evelyn  Wood,  the  Adjutant-General ;  and  Sir  Red  vers 
Buller,  formerly  Adjutant-General,  the  three  chief  military 
authorities  of  the  British  Empire,  were  not  consulted  when 
Lord  Salisbury's  Government  decided  to  reverse  Lord  Rose- 
bery's  policy,  and  that  they  do  not  support  the  course  which 
has  been  pursued.     The  much  and  bitterly-discussed  question 


94  COSMOPOLIS. 

of  the  breach  of  honour  in  making  the  road  to  Chitral  has 
nothing  to  do  with  this.  It  is  a  charge  originally  brought  by 
a  Liberal  ex-Minister,  in  terms  far  too  strong,  and  it  remains 
at  the  best  but  a  side  issue.  The  simple  facts  are  that  the 
Liberal  Government  decided  to  withdraw  after  taking  the 
highest  military  advice  ;  that  they  communicated  this  decision 
to  the  Viceroy,  who  reluctantly  but  loyally  accepted  it  ;  and 
that  on  the  fall  of  the  Rosebery  Administration  the  Salisbury 
Cabinet  deliberately  reversed  it.  The  one  fear  which  drives 
these  frontier  highlanders  to  desperate  frenzy  is  that  their 
independence  is  in  danger  and  their  country  about  to  be 
annexed.  Nobody  denies  that  fact,  and  we  need  not  look 
much  beyond  it.  For  example,  the  correspondent  of  The 
Times  with  the  Tirah  Expeditionary  Force  (Captain  Young- 
husband  himself),  writing  about  the  Orakzai  deputation  which 
came  in  to  hear  Sir  William  Lockhart's  terms,  wrote  on 
November  15  : — 

There  can  be  no  question  that  they  were  all  immensely  relieved  to  tind 
that  their  comitry  is  not  to  be  permanently  occupied  or  annexed  by  us  ; 
and,  assured  of  their  independence,  they  are  not  disposed  to  haggle  now 
over  any  minor  point,  their  punishment  being,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  an 
extremely  lenient  one. 

And  again  : — 

There  are  indications  that  even  the  Afridis  have  had  enough  of  it  now, 
and  would  be  glad  to  see  our  backs ;  and  motives  of  self-interest  may 
prompt  them  to  climb  down  at  no  very  distant  date.  They  know  by  this 
time  that  we  do  not  mean  to  annex  their  country.  That,  no  doubt,  has 
been  their  great  and  haunting  fuss  [an  obvious  misprint  for  **  fear  "].  Other 
considerations  are  of  secondary  importance  to  them.  The  money  line, 
whatever  it  may  be,  the  rendition  of  loot,  and  the  surrender  of  arms,  they 
will  put  up  with  without  much  fear. 

Finally,  Sir  Lepel  Griffin  himself,  years  ago,  said  :  "  I  think 

that  most  of  our  frontier   complications  are   caused   by   the 

excessive  zeal  of  political  and  military  officers  whom  the  central 

Government  cannot  keep  in  hand."    In  a  w^ord,  British  courage 

has  never  shone  brighter  than  during  this  frontier  war :  from 

the  Political  Agents  whose  policy  has  brought  it  about,  and  the 

home  Government  which  has  supported  the  policy,  we  must 

await  an  explanation  of  why  that  courage  has  been  wasted  in 

so  heartbreaking  a  fashion. 

Henry  Norman. 

Editor:  F.  Ortmans. 


LES  DEUX  PARTIES. 


M»^  Flaumont-Bussieres  venait  de  rentrer  du  Palais.  C'etait 
un  grand  vieillard  au  teint  rouge  et  aux  cheveux  blancs,  le 
sourire  vif  et  spirituel,  les  yeux  clairs,  des  yeux  d'une  penetra- 
tion et  d'une  sagacity  redoutables,  de  ces  yeux  qui  d^jouent 
toute  ruse,  d6concertent  tout  mensonge.  11  chauffait  ses  mains 
fines  et  nerv^euses,  en  les  6tendant  vers  les  braises,  devant  la 
haute  chemin6e  de  bois  sculpts.  Le  cr6puscule  assombrissait 
les  angles  du  cabinet  de  travail.  Cette  demi-obscurit6  lui  6tait 
agr&ible.  Aprfes  sa  journ6e  employee  a  plaider,  avant  les 
consultations  qu'il  accordait  de  cinq  a  sept,  M'^  Flaumont- 
Bussiferes  aimait,  en  ce  repos  d'un  quart-d*heure,  a  se  re- 
prendre,  a  se  ressaisir. 

Tandis  qu'a  travers  les  vitres  brouill6es  de  son  coupe  courait 
la  vision  rapide  des  r6verberes  qui  s'allument  et  du  va-et-vient 
de  la  foule,  il  se  laissait  d'ordinaire  bercer  par  une  somno- 
lence, dont  le  r6veillait  seule  I'entr^e  piaffante  des  chevaux,  en 
un  roulement  sourd  de  roues,  sous  la  porte  cochere  de  son 
hotel.  Puis,  montant  d'un  pas  calme  le  large  escalier,  il 
retrouvait  le  meme  sentiment  de  lassitude  apais6e  qui  suit  les 
heures  bien  remplies,  toujours  pareilles  et  cependant  differentes. 
Dans  son  cabinet  de  travail  seulement,  il  goiitait  le  plaisir 
profond  du  chez  soi  retrouv^,  I'atmosphere  enveloppante  et 
douce  de  I'habitude.  Tout  ce  qui  lie  un  homme  au  pas^6,  tout 
ce  qui  tisse,  fil  a  fil,  la  trame  du  present,  il  le  retrouvait  la. 

Trente  ans  de  labeur  et  de  gloire,  toute  une  noble  vie  de 
talent,  de  probity,  tenaient  en  cette  pidce  severe,  assourdie  de 
tapis  de  Perse  et  de  tentures  couleur  de  rouille.  Le  portrait 
de  son  grand-p6re,  le  fameux  l^giste,  un  des  plus  d6vou6s 
collaborateurs  de  Napol6on  dans  rcditication  du  Code  civil,  Ic 


96  COSMOPOLIS. 

portrait  de  son  pere,  illustre  avocat  d'assises,  faisaient  face  a  deux 
visages  rieurs  d'enfants, — un  homme  et  une  femme  aujour- 
d'hui,  son  fils,  sa  fille.  II  se  sentait,  entre  ces  morts  et  ces  etres 
pleins  de  vie,  IHnterm^diaire  myst6rieux,  le  chainon  vivant  de 
la  race.  Un  autre  portrait,  seul  sur  un  chevalet,  et,  symbole 
touchant,  environn^  comme  un  autel  de  fleurs  toujours  fraiches, 
rappelait  au  vieillard  I'image  de  sa  femme,  compagne  ador6e, 
perdue  depuis  vingt  ans,  dont  il  gardait  la  m6moire  comme  un 
culte.  II  61eva  sa  pensee  vers  elle ;  il  lui  faisait  toujours 
place  en  son  recueillement,  a  cette  heure-la.  II  songea  a  sa  fille 
marine,  heureuse  au  loin  dans  un  chateau  d'Anjou, —  a  son  fils, 
avocat  comme  lui.  M*  Flaumont-Bussieres  sourit.  Jacques 
lui  succederait  bientot.  On  pouvait  ctre  tranquille,  Ic  nom  nc 
pcricliterait  pas. 

II  jugeait,  depuis  deux  ou  trois  ans,  son  oeuvre  accomplie. 
L'heure  de  la  retraite  ^tait  venue.  D^ja,  il  refusait  la  plupart 
des  causes,  ne  donnait  plus  que  des  conseils.  Le  domestique 
cependant  apportait  les  lampes  ;  celle  qu'il  plaga  sur  le  bureau 
6claira  un  paquet  de  cartes  et  de  lettres  :  le  rappel  a  la  realit6 
coutumifere,  aux  obligations  professionnelles. 

—  Ne  fermez  pas  les  rideaux,  Henri. 

L'avocat  s'approcha  de  la  fenetre,  contempla  le  ciel  encore 
clair,  la  cime  des  maisons  noires  se  d6coupant  sur  une 
brume  violette  qui  fongait  a  vue  d'oeil.  Les  rues,  sillonn6es  par 
les  flammes  du  gaz  de  tremblants  cordons  de  lumiere,  6taient 
d^ja  plongees  dans  les  t(^nt;bres.  L'obscurite  peu  a  peu  mon- 
tait,  ^teignant  par  dela  la  Seine  glauque  le  d6cor  confus  des 
jardins  et  des  toits.  Un  long  moment,  M'  Flaumont-Bussiferes 
contempla  la  cii6  fourmillante,  a  cette  heure  oti,  le  labeur 
fini,  des  milliers  et  des  milliers  d'individus,  croisant  en  tous 
sens,  dans  le  d6dale  des  rues,  Tinfini  reseau  de  leurs  interets 
complexes,  regagnent  leurs  demeures  ou  s'6parpillent  dans  les 
caf6s.  Que  d'existences  en  proie  a  de  d^vorants  soucis,  lucre, 
ambition,  plaisir,  ou  simplement  la  dure,  la  rude  lutte  pour  le 
pain  quotidien  !  Que  de  pens^es  en  mouvement,  d'espoirs, 
d'amertumes,  de  convoitises  ! 

II  se  mit  a  rever  a  ceux  qui,  s'orientant  vers  cette  piece 
meme,  depuis  tant  d'anneen  etaient  venus  se  confier  a  lui, 
invoquer   son    aide.     Combien   avaient    passe   dans  le   salon 


LES   DEUX   PARTIES.  97 

d'attente,  combien,  dans  le  grand  cabinet  de  travail  silencieux, 
6taicnt  entr6s,  et,  pench6s  vers  lui,  avaient,  comme  au  con- 
fessionnaly  r6v6l6  a  ce  maitre,  a  ce  protecteur  du  moment,  les 
d6boires  de  leur  carridre  ou  Teflondrement  de  leur  vie  1  Les 
raeurtres  de  Tame,  les  spoliations  injustes,  les  tyrannies 
d6guis6es,  les  martyres  inconnus,  plaies  secretes  des  vies 
que  i'on  aurait  crues  les  plus  brillantes  et  les  plus  heureuses,  il 
les  avait  vus,  entendus,  touches.  Avec  des  mots  amers  et 
des  sanglots,  des  balbutiements  f^briles,  des  61ans  saccad6s,  par 
centaines,  hommes  et  femmes  avaient  d6noue  devant  lui  les 
diff^rents  masques  de  Tavarice,  de  la  douleur,  de  la  jalousie, 
de  la  haine.  Tous,  que  leur  cause  en  soi  fut  juste  ou  non, 
apportaient  a  Texposer  la  mdme  conviction,  la  mdme  ardeur  de 
sinc6rit6.  Que  d'habilet6,  que  de  flair,  quelle  froide  et  fine 
intuition  il  lui  avait  fallu  pour  pen6trer  les  fourbes,  d6meler 
la  v6rit6  dans  ces  mensonges  prof6r6s  avec  fifevre,  d'un  ton 
persuasif  1  Constamment  il  avait  du  se  mettre  en  garde  contre 
Texaltation  des  uns,  venir  en  aide  a  I'honndte  gaucherie  des 
autres,  faire  jaillir,  du  fatras  des  paroles  inutiles,  le  trait 
essentiel  et  frappant  de  la  cause. 

II    contemplait    tou jours  la   ville,    creuset    d'6nergies    qui 

se  combattaient,   s'annihilaient,    se    d6truisaient    sans  cesse, 

louillonnement   de   passions    et    d'int6rets    irr^ductibles.     II 

songeait  a  quel  point  le  bien,  le  mal,  la  vertu,  le  vice  6taient 

choses  relatives,  dependant  de  la  circonstance,  du  milieu,  des 

accidents.     Certes,  la  connaissance  qu'il  avait  des  hommes  lui 

laissait  peu  d'illusions  sur  leur  compte.    II  les  savait  orgueilleux 

j  usqu'a  la  folic,  cr^dules  jusqu'a  la  stupidity,  ent6t6s  jusqu'a 

l*aveuglement.    Sa  foi   au  bien  pourtant  restait  in6branlable. 

1 1  avait   vu   de  rares,   bien   rares  exemples   de  d^vouement, 

d'humbles  et  admirables  sacrifices,  des  tendresses  qui  avaient 

sutriompher  au  milieu  des  pires  6preuves,  et  cela  lui  suffisait 

pour  croire  a  la  noblesse  de  la  vie  et  a  la  grandeur  du  devoir. 

Sa  philosophie  en  6tait  plus  indulgente,  voila  tout. 

Cependant,  entre  ces  passants  qu'il  6voquait,  ombres  vagues 

dans  le    noir    des    rues,  aujourd'hui,   comme   hier,   comme 

chaque  soir,  un,  deux,  trois  pUisieurs  venaient  de  sonner  a  sa 

porta.     II  avait  entendu    la    lointaine    vibration    du    timbre. 

^'autres  allaient  sonner  encore.     II  se  devait  fi  ces  visiteurs 

VOL.  IX. — NO.  XXV.  7 


98  COSMOPOLIS. 

comme  un  m6decin  a  ses  malades.  II  s'y  devait  d'autant  plus 
que  c'6taient  les  derniers,  et  que,  dans  quelques  semaines, — 
son  parti  6tait  pris,  —  il  dirait  adieu  a  ce  Barreau  dont  il  6tait 
un  des  maitres ;  et  bon  propri6taire  paisible,  il  s'en  irait  vivre 
dans  un  chateau  voisin  de  celui  de  sa  fille,  en  Anjou,  soucieux 
uniquement  de  ses  Hvres,  de  la  serre  et  du  fruitier. 

II  s'arracha,  d'un  effort,  au  bien-etre  intime  de  la  pi6ce, 
traversa  une  bibliotheque  ou  de  vieilles  reliures  fauves  mon- 
traient  leurs  ors  ternis,  tourna  brusquement  le  loquet  de  la  porte 
du  salon  et  surgit  sur  le  seuil,  galvanisant  par  sa  brusque 
apparition  la  torpeur  immobile  ou  se  figeaient  les  clients, 
dans  une  fascination  d'attente  qui  les  hypnotisait,  faces  mortes, 
yeux  fixes,  parcils  a  des  personnages  de  cire. 

L'un  d'eux,  petit  homme  grisonnant  et  vout^,  qui  se  tenait 
ramass6  en  une  position  incommode,  vis-a-vis  la  porte,  bien 
decide  a  s'clancer  sans  que  personne  eut  le  temps  de  lui 
prendre  son  tour,  se  leva  trfes  vite.  M*"  Flaumont-Bussieres 
s'effaga  pour  le  laisser  passer.  La  d-marche  trottinante, 
6paules  basses  et  nuque  pench6e,  dc  Tinconnu,  sa  mise  d'une 
6l6gance  fatigu6e,  son  pantalon  trop  court,  son  pardessus  trop 
clair,  les  traits  fins  et  tir6s  qu'il  montra  en  se  retournant,  ses 
yeux  surtout  dont  le  regard  6tait  ind^cis  et  voil6,  produisirent 
sur  Tavocat  une  impression  d6favorable.  Avec  ce  diagnostic 
sur  qui  lui  faisait  deviner  au  visage  les  professions  des  gens,  il 
estima  avoir  affaire  a  quelque  sp^culateur  malheureux,  de  nais- 
sance  et  d'6ducation  distingu6es. 

II  d6signa  d'un  geste  un  fauteuil  en  pleine  lumiere,  sous  la 
lampe.  Et  tout  aussitot,  tandis  que  lui-meme,  pour  observer 
mieux,  reculait  par  habitude  son  sifege  et  renversait  la  t6te  dans 
Tombre,  le  petit  homme  se  mettait  a  parler,  avec  une  volubility 
fi^vreuse  : 

—  Permettez-moi  de  me  presenter  :  le  marquis  de  Vogelet, 
propridtaire  des  grandes  usines  de  la  Kocheguny.  Ma 
femme,  monsieur,  pour  des  raisons  d'intcret,  d'interet  unique- 
ment, demande  contre  moi  une  separation  de  corps  et  de 
biens.  Et  moi,  monsieur,  je  m'y  oppose  de  toutes  mes 
forces.  Je  ne  puis  admettre  que  le  reve  de  ma  vie,  le  labeur  de 
quinze  ann6es  s'6croule  au  caprice  d'une  femme  qui  ne  veut 
ni  me  comprendre   ni    me    soutenir,    qui    me    refuse   Taide 


LES   DEUX   PARTIES.  Q9 

mat6rielle,  le  concours  d'argent  qu'elle  me  doit,  oui,  monsieur, 
qu'elle  me  doit  1    Car  sans  enfants,  que  pr6tend-elle  faire  de 
ces  trente  mille  francs  ?    30,000  francs  de  rente  k  3  pour  100, 
que  j'ai  eu  la  na*ivet6  de  lui  reconnaltre  en  me  mariant ! 
M*  Flaumont-Bussiferes  I'arrdta  : 

—  Avant  d'aller  plus  loin,  monsieur,  je  vous  pr6viens  que  je 
ne  puis  me  charger  de  votre  cause.  Car,  vraisemblablement, 
lorsqu'elle  sera  appel6e  devant  le  tribunal,  je  n'exercerai  plus. 
Men  age,  mes  fatigues  m'imposent  un  repos  rendu  chaque  jour 
plus  n6cessaire. 

—  Ah,  mon  Dieu  1  fit  le  petit  homme  saisi.  Quel  malheur  ! 
J'avais  tant  d'espoir  en  vous  1  L'autorit6  de  votre  talent,  cette 
belle  probit6  qui  fait  de  vous  le  d6fenseur  et  la  sauvegarde  des 
malheureux... 

M*^  Flaumont-Bussiferes  eut  un  geste  6vasif  et  poli.  Mais 
le  marquis  insistait  pour  qu'il  consentit  du  moins  a  I'^couter. 
Sa  cause  6tait  si  claire,  si  juste  1  II  ne  lui  refuserait  pas 
Taumone  d'un  conseih  C'6tait  ce  million,  ce  malheureux 
million  !...  Derrifere  quelles  raisons  sa  femme  pouvait-elle  se 
retrancher  ?  L'argent  6tait  a  liii,  d'abord.  Ses  yeux  luisaient, 
ses  doigts  agrippaient  le  vide...  Et  I'impression  facheuse  du 
d^but  persistait,  s'aggravait.  Son  air  de  cupidit6  faisait  paraitre 
louches  les  explications  embrouill6es  qu'il  donnait  sur  un  ton 
de  fausse  assurance,  dementi  par  ses  regards  in  quiets.  II  en 
revenait  toujours  au  fameux  million.  Par  moments,  comme 
si  le  fil  de  ses  id^es  lui  ^chappait,  il  begayait. 

—  Je  voudrais  mettre  de  I'ordre  dans  mon  r6cit.  Mes  pens6es 
affluent.  Je  ne  sais  par  ou  commencer.  Monsieur,  ma  situa- 
tion est  des  plus  cruelles.  II  y  a  dix-sept  ans  que  j'ai  6pous6 
Mile  de  Tillemas,  a  laquelle  j'ai  reconnu,  comme  je  vous  I'ai 
dit,  un  million  de  dot.  Elle  ne  m'apportait  aucune  fortune. 
Pourquoi  lui  en  aurais-je  demand6  ?  J'6tais  riche  pour  deux. 
Puis,  l'argent  ne  fait  pas  le  bonheur,  j'en  sais  quelque  chose  ! 
Voici  I'aflaire,  en  deux  mots. 

Les  terres  que  je  possede  sont  extrfimement  riches  en 
minerais  de  fer,  recouvrent  d'immenses  gisements.  D'ailleurs, 
la  reputation  des  usines  de  la  Rocheguny  est  faite.  Je  passe 
done  sur  la  p6riode  de  creation  :  plans,  sondages,  batisses, 
achat  des  machines,  forage  des  puits...     Dfes    les  premiers 


lOO  COSMOPOLTS. 

temps,  ma  femme,  en  qui  j'eusse  du  trouver  assistance  et  en- 
couragement, ne  m'a  t6moign6  qu'hostilit6  sourde,  m6pris.     Je 
d6rogeais,  ou  bien  j'6tais  un  reveur,  un  fou !    Aujourd'hui,  je 
suis  parvenu   a    6difier   deux   6tablissements    modules,    avec 
groupement  ouvrier  dans  les  meilleures  conditions  de  salubrity 
et  de  confort,  6cole  pour  les  enfants,  maison  d'asile  pour  les 
vieillards.   Tous  mes  gains  ont  pass6  a  I'amdioration,  au  d6ve- 
loppement  des  usines.   Le  pays  entier  se  transforme,  progresse. 
Un   coin  de  terre  frangaise,   grace  a  moi    portera  des  mois- 
sons  d'6nergie!    Grace  a  moi...  je  me  vante.     Led6vouement 
d'un  ing^nieur  americain,  M.  Steers,  qui  me  prete  Tappui  de 
son  experience,  m'a  6t6  infiniment  pr^cieux.    Encore  un  effort, 
nous  touchons  au  but.     Mes  usines,  pour  marcher  et  prosp6rer, 
ne  demandent  plus  qu'un  16ger  sacrifice.  Mais  une  exploitation 
comme  celle-la  d6vore,  vous  le   concevez  sans  peine,  beau- 
coup  d'argent.      Mes  revenus  fonciers  sont  absorb6s  et  au 
dela.     J'ai  hypoth6qu6  des  domaines.     J'ai  vendu  des  forfits. 
Impossible  d'ali^ner  les  terres  qui  me  restent,  et  qui  sont  dans 
ma  famille  depuis  deux  si^cles  ! 

Ou  trouver  de  I'argent  ?  Ma  femme  en  a, —  le  million  que 
je  lifi  ai  reconnu,  donn6,  en  me  mariant.  Elle  peut,  elle  doit 
m'en  c6der  la  moiti6,  le  quart  !  Et  loin  d'y  consentir,  elle 
demande  a  se  s6parer  de  moi !  Elle  veut  mettre  sa  fortune  a 
Tabri  de  ce  qu'elle  appelle  mes  imprudences,  mon  d^sordre. 
Elle  se  retranche  derriere  des  griefs  imaginaires.  Quelle 
injustice,  monsieur,  et  combien  j'en  ai  souffert !  Non  seule- 
ment  dans  mon  orgueil,  mais  encore  dans  ma  tendresse.  Une 
femme  qui  invente,  qui  ment  !  Quand  je  pense  que  ce  million, 
ce  stupide  million,  donnerait  Tessor  a  mon  entreprise,  alimen- 
terait  de  nouveaux  d6bouch6s,  me  permettrait  Tessai  de 
machines  perfection n6es  !  Ce  serait  la  vie  pour  cette  contr^e 
que  j'ai  m6tamorphos6e  d6ja  !  Et  tout  se  brise  contre  un 
incurable  aveuglement,  un  6go'isme  rapace.  Alors  le  d6ses- 
poir  me  prend,  monsieur.  Trahi  par  celle  qui  devait  etre 
mon  inspiratrice,  le  refuge  des  heures  de  lassitude  et  de 
d6couragement  ! 

II  dit  les  reproches  constants,  les  recriminations  ameres, 
et  son  travail  a  lui,  ses  efforts  toujours  couronnes  de  succfes, 
son   espoir  fervent    du    triomphe    prochain.     M'    Flaumont- 


LES   DEUX   PAliTIKS.  lOI 

Bussieres  I'interrogeait,  scrutant  le  visage  las,  TeJ  y?ux  voil6s  et 
tristes.  M.  de  Vogelet  se  tenait  disgracieusement  assis,  Ictf 
jambes  t*cart6es.  Son  pantalon  trop  court  remontait  sur  les 
bottines.  Au  bout  de  toutes  les  questions  posees  par  Tavocat, 
rid6e  fixe,  le  million,  revenait  comme  une  obsession,  avec  le 
meme  petit  6clair  au  coin  des  yeux,  le  mouvement  machinal 
des  doigts  crochetant  le  vide... 

"  Un  homme  faible,  certainement !  se  disait  le  vieux  pra- 
ticien.  Un  homme  entet6,  a  vis6es  6tendues,  a  pratique 
courte.  Un  de  ces  speculateurs  que  Tambition  et  la  vanit6 
conduisent  a  leur  perte.  Non  contents  de  se  perdre  eux- 
memes,  il  n'h^sitent  pas  a  entrainer  les  autres  dans  leur 
ruine..."  Un  rien,  cependant,  retenait  son  jugement,  adoucis- 
sait  la  scv6rit6  de  ses  doutes  :  I'air  de  bonte,  de  candeur  du 
petit  homme,  quelque  chose  d'ind^finissable  qui  s'exhalait  dc 
la  pauvre  figure  au  sang  pale  et  semblait  dire  :  "  Ne  jugez  pas 
sur  Tapparence  1 " 

—  Mon  Dieu,  monsieur,  dit  enfin  M'^  Flaumont-Bus- 
sieres,  je  regrette  de  ne  vous  point  donner  une  reponse  meil- 
leure.  Mais  euss6-je  et6  en  mesure  (et  je  ne  le  suis  pas) 
de  prendre  en  mains  vos  int6rets,  il  m'eiit  fallu  d'abord 
examiner  Taffaire,  vous  connaitre  davantage.  Par  regie,  et 
certainenent  vous  ne  m'en  blamerez  pas,  j'ai  Thabitude  d'en- 
trer  dans  le  detail,  de  prendre  une  id6e  nette  des  circonstances, 
des  raisons,  qui  ^Incident  une  cause.  La  votre,  a  mon  avis  du 
moins,  aurait  besoin  de  plus  d'un  6claircissement  encore. 

Le  marquis  de  Vogelet  eut  un  geste  d6sesp6r6  : 

— Ah  1  monsieur,  vous  vous  defiez  de  moi,  je  le  devine  ! 
Vous  vous  dites  :  "  II  n'est  pas  naturel  qu'une  femme  a  qui 
son  mari  a  tout  apport6,  fortune,  situation,  se  derobe  au 
devoir  de  Taider,  de  le  secourir  avec  un  argent  qu'elle  tient 
de  lui  1 "  Vous  pensez  qu'il  y  a  une  raison  que  je  vous  cache  ? 
Que  cette  separation,  ma  femme  la  reclame  pour  un  motif 
qui  ne  me  fait  pas  honneur  ?...     Cest  faux,  je  vous  Tatteste  !... 

M*  Flaumont-Bussiferes  se  leva.  II  connaissait  ces  d6n6- 
gations  qui  vont  au  devant  du  reproche,  cette  precipita- 
tion a  se  disculper  par  quoi  les  maladroits  se  livrent. 
Inconsid6re,  prodigue,  M.  de  Vogelet  pouvait  dtre  en  outre 
tnauvais  mari,  un  de  ces  honimes  qu'une  passion  inferieure,  sur 


102  ..  ••  '•.:•.  tdsflOPOLis. 


^  U.  -.tand,  d4toufne  de  leur  foyer,  entraine  aux  pires  d6regle- 
..  :.^  *•.;  tafehtS."  Qui  prouvait  que  le  million,  son  million!  auquel  il 
revenait  sans  cesse,  fiit  r6ellement  destine  a  I'emploi  qu'il 
d6signait  ?  Et  dans  le  doute,  a  chaque  minute  croissant,  que 
suscitaient  en  lui  la  bizarrerie  du  marquis,  son  visage  ingrat, 
ses  habits  us6s,  il  suspectait  la  sinc6rit6  de  cette  voix  febrile, 
aux  b^gayements  subits,  aux  intonations  forc6es. 

Lentement,  avec  une  courtoise  mais  inflexible  douceur,  il 
acculait  M.  de  Vogelet  a  la  porte  et  tournait  le  loquet.  Le 
petit  homme,  protestant  encore  de  son  bon  droit  et 
balbutiant  de  vagues  actions  de  grace,  6tait  forc6  de  prendre 
cong6 ; 

— Je  reviendrai,  monsieur,  murmurait-il  d'un  ton  suppliant. 
Vous  m'6couterez,  vous  me  conseillerez... 

La  porte  se  referma.  M^  Flaumont-Bussiferes  eut  un  I6ger 
haussement  d'6paules;  puis,  traversant  de  nouveau  la  biblio- 
theque,  il  se  montra  au  seuil  du  salon  d'attente,  guett^  du 
regard  par  tous  les  clients  immobiles.  Et  ce  fut  Tordinaire 
defile  :  plaintes  et  griefs,  le  besoin  de  se  defendre  et  le  d6sir 
de  se  venger  ;  Tenvie  a  la  base  de  tout  ;  Tinterfet  ins6parable  de 
chaque  sentiment  humain  ;  I'orgueil  bless6  qui  ne  pardonne 
pas,  et  rimpossibilit6  aux  caractferes  de  se  fondre,  aux  esprits  de 
se  comprendre,  aux  coeurs  de  s'aimer.  Des  protestations 
de  tendresse  qui  ressemblaient  a  du  miel  ranee,  des  aveux 
brusques  de  haine  pareils  a  du  fiel  qui  crfeve  ;  et  Tentdtement 
des  gens,  leur  incroyable  t6nacit6,  incr6dules  aux  bons  conseils, 
sourds  aux  raisonnements,  disant  d'un  ton  piqu6  : — "  Alors, 
monsieur,  vous  croyez  ?..."  et  un  instant  apres  revenant  a  la 
charge.  Que  de  misintelligences  dues  a  Tinintelligence  1 
Jamais  la  pauvret6  des  ames,  remu6es  jusqu'a  la  lie  par 
un  6go*isme  vaniteux  ou  colore,  ne  lui  6tait  appaiue  aussi 
lamentable.  II  venait  de  cong6dier  un  colonel  en  retraite,  qui 
plaidait  contre  les  parents  de  sa  femme, —  le  vieux  guerrier 
martelait  les  mots  avec  une  voix  de  cuivre  — ;  puis  une 
plaideuse  acharn6e,  qui  voulait  d6sh6riter  ses  enfants  et  ses 
petits-enfants  au  profit  d'une  Association  maternelle  pour 
I'allaitement  des  sourds-muets.  II  ne  restait  plus  au  salon 
qu'une  grande  femme  d'allure  aristocratique.  M*"  Flaumont- 
Bussi^res  Tintroduisit. 


LES   DEUX   PARTIES.  I03 

—  Monsieur,  dit-elle  d'un  air  ddcid^,  je  suis  la  marquise  de 
Vogelet. 

II  r^prima  un  court  6tonnement,  avan^a  le  fauteuil.  Elle 
s'assit  avec  un  froissement  soyeux.  Elle  se  tenait  droite, 
cambrant  Tharmonieux  dessin  de  son  corps  serr6  dans  une 
jaquette  d'astrakan,  une  robe  de  satin  noir.  Elle  avait  de  tres 
beaux  yeux,  qui  regardaient  en  face,  d'un  regard  ferme,  un  peu 
dur.  Les  cheveux  6taient  d'or  fauve,  d'or  teint,  sous  une 
capote  de  velours  turquoise  paillette  d'acier.*  Son  menton 
allong6,  ses  pommettes  saillantes  accusaient  Tdnergie  ;  son 
sourire  d^couvrait  d'admirables  dents,  de  ces  dents  dont 
la  beaut6  doit  moins  a  la  nature  qu'aux  soins  continus  du 
dentiste ;  de  meme  T^clat  de  son  teint  empruntait  un  peu  de 
son  charme  a  un  discret,  16ger,  mais  trfes  soup^onnable 
maquillage.     Elle  paraissait  avoir  trente-huit  ans. 

—  Monsieur,  dit-elle,  c'est  notre  voisin  de  campagne,  M.  le 
s6nateur  Malus,  qui  m'a  conseill6  de  m'adresser  a  vous  dans 
le  malheur  injuste  qui  me  frappe.... 

M''  Flaumont-Bussiferes  Tarr^ta  du  m^me  geste  6vasif  et  poli, 
et  comme  il  avait  fait  pour  M.  de  Vogelet,  se  r6cusa  d'avance. 
Mais  elle  insistait  avec  un  ton  de  loyaut6  douloureuse  : 

—  Ecoutez-moi  d'abord,  monsieur,  et  vous  me  direz  ensuite 
si  ma  cause  n'est  pas  de  celles  qui  r6clament  I'aide  de  votre 
immense  talent,  la  protection  de  votre  noble  coeur.  Mon 
mari,  monsieur,  m'a  ruinee...  Je  lui  ai  apport6  un  million 
en  me  mariant. 

— Un  million  ?  r6p6ta  M  Flaumont-Bussicres.  Et  fermant 
a  demi  les  yeux,  ce  qui  chez  lui  6tait  signe  de  meditation  : — 
Un  million,  que  vous  lui  avez  apportc  en  vous  mariant...  11 
n'avait  aucune  fortune  ? 

— Des  terres,  monsieur,  des  terres  sans  grande  valeur  !  Et 
voila  justement  oxx  apparait  la  folie  de  cet  homme.  II  pretend 
exploiter  les  minerais  de  fer  que  certaines  d'entre  elles 
contiennent,  a  ce  qu'il  pretend.  Je  dois  vous  dire  que  M.  de 
Vogelet  est  un  ignorant  :  aucune  suite  d'idees,  aucun  sens 
pratique,  pas  meme  les  qualit^s  d'un  comptable  mediocre. 
Dans  cette  entreprise  hasardeuse,  toute  notre  fortune  s'est 
engloutie,  la  majeure  partie  de  notre  fortune,  du  moins  ! 
Nous   n'avons   pas   d'enfants,  monsieur,   mais    nous   sommes 


I04  COSMOPOLIS. 

d  age  a  en  avoir.  Longtemps,  devant  cct  espoir  si  doux,  si 
legitime,  je  me  suis  resignee,  malgre  moi.  Les  usines  de  la 
Kocheguny  d6vorent  non  seulement  les  revenus  de  nos  biens, 
mais  des  champs  entiers,  des  prairies,  des  bois !  —  deux 
domaines  qu'il  a  fallu  vendre.  Aujourd'hui,  monsieur,  ou 
je  n'ai  plus  en  perspective  qu'une  vieillesse  solitaire;  ou 
j*entrevois  la  ruine  finale,  je  me  dois  a  moi-meme,  je  dois  au 
veritable  int6ret  de  mon  mari  de  demander  contre  lui  une 
separation  de  corps  et  de  biens.  Ainsi  du  moins  je  sauverai 
mon  patrimoine  ;  j'arracherai  au  gouffre  quelques  d6bris. 
M.  de  Vogelet,  un  jour,  m'en  sera  reconnaissant.  Car  il  me 
reviendra,  j'en  suis  sure.  Ah  !  monsieur,  rien  de  tout  cela  ne 
serait  arriv6,  sans  la  miserable  cr&iture  qui  le  mene. 

La,  le  ton  de  Mme  de  Vogelet  fut  path6tique  ;  elle  tira  de 
son  ridicule  un  petit  mouchoir  de  fine  dentelle  : 

—  Mon  mari  aurait  ct6  certainement  rebutc,  des  Tabord, 
par  rinsucccs  de  ces  recherches  et  de  cestravaux,  pour  lesquels 
il  n'est  vraiment  pas  fait.  Mais  le  directeur  de  ses  ^tablisse- 
ments,  je  ne  sais  quel  aventurier  d'Amcrique,  un  M.  Steers,  a  pris 
sur  lui  un  ascendant  incroyable  1  Et  le  malheur,  —  le  grand 
malheur  !  (sa  voix  trembla)  —  est  que  M.  Steers  a  une  femme, 
une  tres  jolie  femme.  Tous  deux  s'entendent  pour  abuser  de 
la  faiblesse  de  mon  mari.  Et  Ton  voudrait  que  I'argent  qui 
me  reste,  ma  fortune  a  moi,  passat  encore  a  des  speculations 
insensees,  pour  ne  pas  dire  a  des  caprices  inavouables  !  A  la 
fin,  je  me  revolte.     Vous  me  comprendrez,  monsieur  ! 

Elle  appuya  le  petit  mouchoir  sur  ses  yeux  parfaitement 
sees.  M*"  Flaumont-Bussieres,  en  silence,  la  consid6rait.  Cet 
accent  de  franchise,  Tallure  sympathique,  la  distinction  native 
de  la  marquise  auraient  du  le  convaincre  du  coup.  Evidem- 
ment,  des  deux  parties.  Tune  mentait.  II  confronta  dans  son 
souvenir  I'air  malheureux  et  gauche,  les  protestations  du  petit 
homme,  avec  tout  ce  qui  dans  le  ton,  le  regard,  Tattitude  de  la 
femme  scduisait,  persuadait.  M.  de  Vogelet  devait  mentir. 
Mais  I'avocat  se  souvint  alors  de  Tair  de  bont6,  d'ing6nuit6, 
qui  malgre  tout  se  d6gageait  de  Tingrat  visage.  Et  s'ii  6tait 
sincere  ?  N'y  avait-il  pas,  d'ailleurs,  a  la  reflexion,  quelque 
chose  d'imp6rieux,  d'apre,  qui,  dans  le  r<^cit  de  la  marquise, 
pouvait  faire  pressentir  Tincurable  m6diocrit6  d'une  ame  basse 


LES   DEUX   PARTIES.  I05 

et  jalouse,  incapable  de  s'clever  jusqu'a  la  conception  d'une 
vie  de  labeur  et  de  sacrifice  ? 

II  lui  adressa  quelques  questions,  et  sous  le  deluge  de  griefs 
qu'elle  fit  pleuvoir  d'un  air  de  d6fi,  le  verbe  haut,  I'oeil  dur,  il 
sentit  ses  soup9ons  se  fortifier,  grandir.  Elle  parlait  toujours 
avec  sinc6rit6,  nettete,  choisissant  ses  mots,  arrondissant  ses 
phrases.  Et  dans  cette  voix  d'un  timbre  clair,  il  percevait 
maintenant  la  felure  du  m6tal,  Tinvisible  tare  du  mensonge. 

Quand  elle  eut  tout  dit,  ses  rancunes,  ses  craintes,  ses 
revendications,  il  se  leva  et  la  reconduisit.  Comme  son  mari, 
au  moment  ou  il  entrebaillait  la  porte,  elle  supplia  : 

— Je  reviendrai,  monsieur,  vous  m'6couterez,  vous  me 
conseillerez  I 

II  s'inclina  sans  r^pondre.  Elle  s'en  allait  dans  un  froisse- 
ment  soyeux,  le  buste  droit,  les  coudes  au  corps,  laissant 
derriere  elle  un  parf um  discret  d'h61iotrope.  Le  leger  panache 
de  sa  capote  turquoise  oscillait  au-dessus  des  6pais  cheveux 
d  or  teint. 

Seul,  M*'  Klaumont-Bussicres,  a  petits  coups  satisfaits, 
frappa  dans  ses  mains  comme  il  avait  coutume  de  faire  lorsque, 
ayant  mani6  les  livres  de  sa  bibliotheque,  il  dissipait  ainsi  la 
poussiere  qui  lui  restait  aux  doigts.  De  ce  geste  familier, 
renouvelc*  chaque  soir,  il  secouait  Tobsession  de  toutes  ces 
ames  qui  lui  laissaient  quelque  ch^se  d'elles.  Entre  ceux  qui 
6taient  venus,  ce  soir,  le  trouver,  et  que  le  hasard  en  sa  bi- 
zarrerie  avait,  pantins  humains,  tir^s  devant  lui  par  deux  fils 
opposes,  il  revoyait  gesticuler  le  marquis  et  la  marquise  de 
Vogelet.  Maintenant  que  celle-ci  6tait  partie,  il  ne  savait  plus 
bien.  Le  vrai,  le  faux,  6ternel  alliage  1  Comment  les  dis- 
cerner  ?  Tout  n'6tait  que  contradiction,  divergence  de  senti- 
ments et  d'id6es.  Et,  des  deux  parts,  meme  inconsciente 
sincerity.  Les  deux  voix  discordantes  resonnaient  encore, 
inconciliables,  a  son  oreille. 

II  s'approcha  de  la  fenetre,  oil  cette  fois,  c'6tait  le  noir,  le 
froid,  un  ciel  pur  cribl6  d'6toiles.  Et  devant  la  grande  ville 
confuse,  devant  ces  t^nfebres  pleines  d'existences,  il  h^sitait 
tristement,  songeant  a  cet  insoluble  problfeme  de  la  vie. 
Chacun  le  r6solvait  a  sa  manifere,  bornant  a  ses  yeux  Thorizon. 
Se    retournant    vers    la  pi^ce   claire   et   chaude,   il   eut,   a 


Io6  COSMOPOLIS. 

I'aspect  des  portraits,  des  vieux  meubles,  des  reliures  fauves, 
un  egoiste  plaisir  a  se  sentir  bien  chez  soi,  degag6  deja  de  cette 
mel6e  vorace  et  furieuse ;  et  d'avance  il  savoura  le  repos 
prochain  aupres  de  sa  fille,  dans  une  maison  calme,  avec  un 
grand  jardin,  ses  livres,  des  fleurs,  des  fruits. 

Paul  et  Victor  Marguekitte. 


LE   SOCIALISME    FRANCAIS. 


Je  ne  pourrai,  dans  les  limites  forc6ment  6troites  de  cet  article, 

toucher  a  bien  des  questions  d'un  haut  interet.     J'aurais  aim6 

par  exemple,  expliquer  Tattitude  du  parti   socialiste  frangais 

dans    la    politique     ext6rieure,  surtout    dans    cette   question 

d'Orient  ou  il  semble  qu'entre  notre  pens6e  et  celle  de  nos 

camarades  anglais  et    allemands    it    y   ait    eu,    malgr^    une 

inspiration  commune,  quelques  nuances.     II  y  faut  renoncer. 

Je  ne  pourrai  non  plus  d6duire  les  principes  les  plus  g6n6raux 

du  socialisme  ni  entrer  dans  le  d6tail  de  son  action.     Je  me 

bornerai  a  marquer  les  principes  d'action  imm6diats,  les  forces 

essentielles  et  les  chances  prochaines  du  socialisme  en  France. 

Je  suis  expos6  6videmment  a  heurter  les  sentiments  de  plus 

d'un  lecteur  de  CosMOPOLis  ;  qu'ils  veuillent  bien  se  rappeler 

que    le   socialisme    n'est  plus  a   Tetat   de  preparation  philo- 

sophique  ;  il  est  a  I'^tat  de  parti,  a  Tetat  de  combat,  et  ce  sont 

des  positions  de  combat  que  je  dois  caract6riscr.     II  est  bien 

entendu  aussi  que  je  parle  en  mon  nom  propre,  et  sous  ma 

seule   responsabilite  ;     mais     j'esp^re     que    mes    camarades 

fran^ais,   sauf  d'in6vitables  nuances    de   pens6e   individuelle, 

reconnaitront  en  ces  lignes  I'image  exacte  du  socialisme  dans 

notre  pays.      Peut-etre   les   etrangers,    auxquels   nous  avons 

donn6  au  Congres  international  de  Londres  le  spectacle  facheux 

de  nos  dissensions,  se  demanderont-ils  avec  quelque   ironie 

s'il  y  a  vraiment  "  un  "  socialisme  fran^ais.     Je  crois  qu'ils  se 

tromperaient   beaucoup  sur   T^tat  vrai,   et   surtout    sur  T^tat 

pr&ent  du  parti  socialiste  en  France,  s'ils  en  jugeaient  par  des 

incidents  trfes  superficiels.    En  fait,  on  pent  dire  sans  paradoxe 

que  le  choc  qui  s'est  produit  au  Congrfes  de  Londres  a  prepare 

^  conciliation  des   deux  616ments  antagonistes.     Au  fond,  il 

n'y  avait  pas   contrari6te    essentielle    des    doctrines    et    des 

principes.      Les    clus   socialistes   ctuient   tous   convaincus  dc 


Io8  COSMOPOLIS. 

rimportance  extreme  de  Torganisation  syndicale  et  de  Taction 
6conomique ;  la  plupart  d'entre  eux  avaient  6te  mel6s  aux 
grandes  luttes  ou  le  proletariat  defend  par  la  greve  son  salaire 
ou  sa  libert6  syndicale.  Et  de  I'autre  c6t6,  las  d616gu6s  des 
syndicats  6taient,  sauf  une  faible  minorite  anarchiste,  partisans 
r^solus  de  Taction  politique.  La  classe  ouvriere  sait  bien  que, 
si  elle  n'arrache  pas  le  pouvoir  a  la  classe  capitaliste,  elle  ne  lui 
arrachera  pas  le  monopole  de  la  propri^te.  Ce  n'6taient  done 
pas  des  forces  oppos6es  et  vou6es  a  une  lutte  irr6ductible  : 
c'6taient  des  forces  di verses  qui  cherchaient  a  se  faire  jour  et 
qui  n'avaient  pas  trouv6  encore  leur  6quilibre.  Les  elus 
socialistes,  dans  leur  ensemble,  ne  comprenaient  pas  assez 
que  Taction  parlementaire  avait  trop  recouvert  I'action 
syndicale,  et  que  le  proletariat  ctait  impatient  de  trouver, 
par  ses  organisiitions,  un  emploi  direct  de  son  ^nergie. 
Et  d'autre  part,  les  anarchistes,  entres  recemment  dans  les 
syndicats,  abusaient  de  cette  impatience  du  proletariat  pour  le 
detourner  peu  a  pen,  par  des  decisions  equivoques,  de  Taction 
politique  et  de  la  conquete  du  pouvoir.  De  la  un  conHit,  tres 
vif  d'apparences,  mais  tout  a  fait  disproportionne  a  Tetat 
profond  des  choses  et  des  esprits.  Aussi,  en  fait,  le  malentendu 
est-il  aujourd'hui  dissip6 ;  les  organisations  ouvrieres  ont 
trouvc  un  emploi  tous  les  jours  plus  large  de  leur  activite 
propre  et  directe  ;  elles  travaillent,  a  cette  heure,  a  se  grouper 
dans  une  vaste  confederation  du  travail,  visiblement  animee 
de  Tesprit  socialiste  le  plus  ardent,  mais  qui  ne  se  rattache  a 
aucune  fraction  determinee  du  parti  socialiste  ;  il  est  infini- 
ment  desirable  que  tous  les  syndicats,  toutes  les  Bourses  du 
travail,  toutes  les  federations  de  metiers  entrent  dans  cette 
large  union  dconomique  du  proletariat  fran9ais.  De  plus,  il 
y  a  depuis  quelques  annees,  dans  la  classe  ouvrifere,  un 
developpement  remarquable  des  cooperatives  de  consomma- 
tion.  Ce  n'est  pas  que  la  classe  ouvrifere  croie  a  Tefficacite  de 
la  cooperation  pour  la  transformation  sociale.  Elle  est  de 
plus  en  plus  collectiviste  ou  communiste.  A  Paris,  dans  une 
reunion  recente,  j'entendais  dire  par  un  deiegue  des  coopera- 
tives aux  applaudissements  des  autres  deiegues  :  "  A  Paris  il  y 
a  des  cooperatives ;  il  n'y  a  pas  de  cooperateurs."  La 
cooperation  n'est  plus  pour  les  militants  ouvriers  qu'un  moyen 


LE   SOCIALISME   FRAN^AIS.  I09 

de  grouper  les  travailleurs,  de  faire  leur  Education  6conomique 

et  de  les  habituer  peu  a  peu  a  une  action  concert^e.     En  ce 

moment  m6me,  les  coop6ratives  ouvriferes  de  consommation 

grandissent   en    France  d'un   mouvement    si  rapide  qu'elles 

seront  bientot  comparables  aux  admirables  cooperatives  beiges; 

elles  proc^ent  a  de  puissantes  installations  et  leur  chiffre 

d'affaires  croit  tous  les  jours.     En  m6me  temps,  c'est  un  esprit 

de  solidarity    ouvrifere    toujours    plus    large,   de    socialisme 

toujours  plus  net  qui  s'affirme  en  elles.     Elles  ont  soutenu  de 

leurs  sympathies  et  de  leurs  subsides  les  verriers  de  Carmaux 

en  lutte.     Elles  ont  particip6  a   la  creation   de   la  Verrerie 

Ouvrifere,  et  elles  en  suivent  de'pr^s  le  d^veloppement.     Elles 

se  groupent  en  unions  et  federations  trfes  etendues,  et  elles 

songent  a  constituer  un  fonds  commun  qui  servira  aux  oeuvres 

de  propagande  et  de  solidarity  ouvrifere  d'un  int6ret  general. 

Comme  les  cooperatives,  la  Verferie  Ouvrifere  offre  un  champ 

d'action   directe  au   proletariat   fran9ais.      Evidemment,   elle 

n'apparait  aux  travailleurs  de  France  ni  comme  un  specimen 

de   I'organisation    socialiste    future,    ni    comme    un    moyen 

d'6mancipation   qui   se   puisse  generaliser.      II  est  trop  clair 

qu'on   ne    pent  greffer  sur  Tordre  capitaliste   une  institution 

pleinement    socialiste.     La  Verrerie   Ouvriere   est   soumise   a 

toules  les  lois  de  la  concurrence,  a  tous  les  hasards  et  a  toutes  les 

brutalites  de  la  lutte,  aux  categories  du  salaire  et  du  capital  : 

on  ne  saurait  renouveler  Torganisme  social  cellule  par  cellule. 

11  est  trop  clair  aussi  que  le  proletariat,  reduit  a  de  maigres 

salaires  et  extenue  par  les  chomages,  ne  peut,  sur  son  epargne 

incertaine  et  miserable,  multiplier  des  entreprises  analogues. 

Mais  la  Verrerie  Ouvrifere  n'en  marque  pas  moins  un  grand 

et  utile  effort ;  et  les  haines  meme  qui  la  guettent,  les  calomnies 

• 

mcessantes  qui  Tassaillent,  attestent  Tinquietude  de  la  classe 
capitaliste.  L'office  de  la  Verrerie  Ouvriere  est  en  eifet  de 
^ontrer  que  la  classe  ouvriere  est  capable  d'une  action  con- 
cert6e  et  suivie,  et  que  mSme  sous  le  poids  ecrasant  du  regime 
capitaliste  elle  sait  continuer  un  mouvement  d'ensemble  vers 
"n  but  defini.  De  plus,  elle  est,  par  le  mecanisme  de  ses 
statuts,  I'institution  economique  qui  se  rapproche  le  plus  du 
type  socialiste.  La  Verrerie  Ouvriere,  en  eifet,  n'appartient  ni 
a  des  particuliers  ni  aux  verriers  qui  y  travaillent.     Ceux-ci  ont 


no  COSMOPOLIS. 

a  coup  sur  des  garanties  sp^ciales ;  leur  syndicat  est  pro- 
pri6taire  d'une  partie  des  actions  et  sur  neuf  administrateurs 
six  doivent  etre  pris  parmi  les  verriers  travaillant  a  I'usine  et 
d6sign6s  par  cux.  Enfin,  s'il  y  a  des  b^n^fices,  quarante  pour 
cent  sont  r6serv6s  aux  verriers  pour  leur  caisse  de  retraite  et 
de  chomage.  Mais  c'est  aux  organisations  ouvriferes,  syndicats 
ou  cooperatives,  et  a  ces  organisations  seules,  qu'appartiennent 
les  actions  de  la  Verrerie.  Chacune  d'elles  en  a  regu  au 
pro  rata  des  tickets  souscrits  par  elle  pour  la  construction  de 
I'usine,  et  comme  la  plupart  des  organisations  ouvriferes  ont 
souscrit,  Tassemblee  g«in6rale  des  actionnaires  de  la  Verrerie 
Ouvriere  sera  comme  une  assemblee  g6n6rale  du  prol6tariat. 
Enfin,  d'apres  les  statuts,  les  60  pour  cent  de  b6n6fices  qui 
reviennent  aux  organisations  actionnaires  doivent  dtre  employes 
a  une  anivre  d'int6ret  commun  ouvrier.  Ainsi  la  Verrerie 
Ouvriere  reprcsente,  autant  'qu'il  est  possible  aujourd'hui, 
une  propri6t6  ouvridre  commune.  Le  proletariat  frangais  s'y 
616ve  non  seulement  au-dessus  de  la  propriety  individuelle, 
mais  au-dessus  de  la  cooperation,  au-dessus  mSme  de  la 
propriety  corporative,  pour  atteindre  a  la  propri6t6  commune, 
dans  la  mesure  oii  le  permettent  aujourd'hui  Tordre  capitaliste^ 
ses  n6cessites  internes  et  ses  lois.  De  mcme  que  dans  revolu- 
tion de  la  vie  il  y  a  eu  des  espfeces  interm6diaires  aidant  au 
passage  d'un  rcgne  a  un  autre,  de  mfime  dans  revolution  de 
la  vie  6conomique  la  Verrerie  Ouvriere  est  en  quelque  sorte 
a  rextrcme  limite  du  systeme  capitaliste,  et  elle  annonce,  sans 
le  r6aliser,  un  type  nouveau.  II  est  vrai  que  dans  I'dvolution 
de  la  vie  les  esp^ces  interm^diaires,  ambigues,  rencontrent 
parfois  double  difficult^  de  vivre  ;  mais  leur  apparition  meme 
et  leur  persistance  annoncent  une  crise  plus  haute  et  un 
dquilibre  plus  haut.  Ainsi,  la  Verrerie  Ouvriere,  obligee  de 
compter  avec  les  n6cessites  g^n^rales  du  regime  capitaliste 
qu'elle  subit  et  les  difficult6s  d'une  organisation  ouvriere 
encore  neuve  et  incertaine,  est  fatalement  expos6e  a  de  s6rieux 
dangers.  Elle  est  combattue  par  les  forces  capitalistes,  dont 
Taction  est  immediate  ;  et  I'organisation  socialiste  definitive 
ou  elle  entrerait  comme  en  son  cadre  naturel  n'existe  pas 
encore.  De  la,  je  le  r^pete,  des  pirils  que  jamais  ni  le  parti 
socialiste,    ni    le   proletariat    n'ont    m^connus   ou   dissimul^s. 


LE   SOCrALISVIE    FRAN(;AIS.  Ill 

Mais  aussi,  si  la  Verrerie  Ouvrifere  r6ussit,  comme  on  en  peut 
avoir  aujourd'hui  la  ferme  esp6rance,  ce  succfes  attestera  avec 
force  que  la  soci6t6  est  prete  pour  una  forme  nouvelle  de  la 
propri6t6  et  du  travail.     En  attendant,  et  c'est  la  surtout  ce 
que    je  voulais   marquer    dans  cette  6tude  d'ensemble,   elle 
met  en  mouvement  toutes  les  activit6s,  toutes  les  Energies  du 
prol6tariat    fran^ais.      Non   seulement   il   est  appel6  par   les 
assemblies   g6n6rales  a  la   diriger ;    non  seulement  les  trois 
administrateurs  pris  en  dehors  des  verriers  mettent  en  contact 
les  verriers    et   les  autres  corporations  ;     non   seulement  le 
proletariat  frangais  voit  dans  la  Verrerie  Ouvriere  sa  propri6t6 
et  son  oeuvre,  et  quand  les  congres  corporatifs  se  r6unissent 
les  d616gu6s  de  la  France  entifere  visitent  avec  joie  Tusine 
prol6tarienne  en   travail; — mais,  pour  la  vente,  il   y  a   inter- 
vention constante  et  directe  des  travailleurs  sur  toute  la  surface 
du  pays.     Ce  sont  eux  qui  exigent,  partout  ou  ils  consomment, 
Ja  marque  de  la  Verrerie  Ouvrifere.    Ainsi  le  proletariat  apprend 
a  reconnaitre,  par  un  exemple  pr6cis,  la  force  sociale  et,  on 
peut  dire,  la  force  r6volutionnaire  contenue  dans  sa  puissance 
<ie  consommation  ;  et  il  n'est  pas  un  citoyen,  il  n'est  pas  un 
militant,  il    n'est  pas  un  salari6  qui  n'ait   le   sentiment   qu'il 
contribue  lui-meme  a  une  oeuvre  g6n6rale  d'affranchissement 
ouvrier.  Ce  n'est  plus  par  I'interm^diaire  de  d616gu6s  politiques 
ou  m6me  de  d616gu6s  corporatifs,  c'est  par  son  action  person- 
nelle  et  immediate  que  chaque  militant   coopfere  a  la  victoire. 
Mais  cette  action  directe  par  les  syndicats  et  federations  de 
syndicats,  par  les  cooperatives,  par  la  Verrerie  Ouvrifere  ne  suffit 
pas  au  proletariat  fran^ais.     II  veut  avoir  un  journal  a  lui,  un 
organe  corporatif  qui  soit  sa  propriete.     La  Confederation  du 
Travail  en  a  decide  la  creation  il  y  a  plusieurs  mois,  et  le  Congrfes 
corporatif  tenu  recemment  a  Toulouse  s'est  occupe  des  moyens 
d'execution.     Trfes  sagement,  il  a  resolu  de  ne  lancer  le  journal 
que  lorsqu'il  aurait  rcuni  un  capital  important  et  lorsqu'il  se 
serait  assure  dans  la  classe  ouvriere  au  moins  dix  mille  abonne- 
raents.  Les  organisations  ouvrieres  recevront  des  actions  selon 
les  sommes  souscrites  ou  les  abonnements  procures  par  elles.  Et 
pour  le  journal  ouvrier  comme  pour  la  V^errerie  Ouvrifere,  seules 
les  organisations    ouvriferes    pourront   poss6der   les   actions. 
Mais  de  m^me  que  les  statuts  de  la  Verrerie  ont  ete  calcuies 


112  COSMOPOLIS. 

pour  que  la  propri6t6  des  organisations  fut  domin6e,  autant 
que  le  permet  la  loi,  par  la  propri6t6  commune,  le  Congrte  de 
Toulouse  a  d6cid6  que    la  Confed6ration  g6n6rale  du  Travail, 
c'est  a-dire  TUnion  g6n6rale  de  tous  les  syndicats  et  f6d6ra- 
tions  de    syndicats,  racheterait,  au   fur  et   a  mesure  de   ses 
ressources,  les  actions  des  organisations  particuliferes.    Ainsi, 
tout  en   faisant   appel  aux   syndicats,   qui   sont   dans   I'ordre 
economique  ses  organes  n6cessaires  et  ses  616ments  essentiels, 
le  prol6tariat  fran9ais  est  doming  tout  entier  par  Tid^e   de   la 
communaut6.      Meme  dans  ses  congrfes  syndicaux,  c'est   au- 
dessus  du  morcellement    syndical  qu'il  s'elfeve  et  ce   n'est  pas 
dans  la  multiplicity  de  sa  vie  corporative,  c'est  dans  son   unit6 
de  classequ'il  entend  poss6der   et   diriger  le  journal  ouvTier. 
Admirable    tentative    a   laquelle   tous   les   socialistes  doivent 
souhaiter  de  tout  coeur  un  prompt  succ^s.     Mais  tentative  qui 
ouvrira  encore  a  toutes  les  forces,  a  tous  les  d6vouements  et 
aussi  a  tous  les  talents  de  la  classe  ouvrifere  une  nouvelle  et 
large  carri^re  d'action.     Et  toutes  ces  institutions,  cooperatives 
de  consommation,  Verrerie  Ouvri^re,  journal  ouvrier,  Confede- 
ration gdnerale  du   Travail,  sont  evidemment  destinies,  sans 
qu'il  soit  necessaire  ici  de  marquer  plus  avant  le  detail,  a  se 
completer  et  a  se  soutenir  les  unes  les  autres.     11  y  aura  done 
dans  tout   le  pays  comme   une   vive  circulation  de  I'activite 
ouvriere,  diverse  et  une. 

Et,  en  verite,  n'est-ce  pas  deja  la  meilleure  reponse,  une 
reponse  de  fait,  a  ceux  qui  accusent  le  socialisme  de  vouloir 
Her  toutes  les  initiatives,  immobiliser  toutes  les  energies  hu- 
maines  ?  Par  lui,  au  contraire,  la  classe  ouvrifere,  tenue  jusqu'ici 
en  tutelle,  a  Tetat  d'impuissance  ou  de  sommeil,  s'eveille,  se 
leve  et  se  meut.  Le  regime  capitaliste  Texclut  de  la  propriete, 
c'est-a-dire  de  la  puissance  vraie  ;  il  lui  refuse  toute  part  de 
direction,  tout  maniement  des  choses  humaines  et  des  grands 
interets ;  il  la  reduit  k  un  rouage  qui  n'a  nul  besoin  de  pensee,  en 
qui  meme  le  mouvement  libre  de  la  pensee  est  un  peril,  car  il 
peut  rompre  la  chaine  des  obeissances  necessaires,  la  suite  des 
gestes  accoutumes,  Tharmonie  de  la  production  automatique. 
Au  contraire,  pour  constituer  ses  syndicats  et  y  rallier  un  a  un 
les  travailleurs  indifferents  ou  timides  ou  disperses,  pour  main- 
tenir  et  accroitre  la  vie  syndicale,  pour  rccrutcr  ct  administrer 


.    LE   SOCIALISME    FRAN^AIS.  II3 

les  cooperatives  grandissantes,  pour  administrer  et  sauver  de 
tous  les  p6rils  une  usine  ouvrifere,  menac6e  par  la  concurrence 
des  grands  capitauX;  les  coalitions  du  patronat,  les  calomnies 
acharntes  de  la  presse,  pour  fonder  et  diriger  un  journal  qui 
serve  d'organe  a  des  int6rets  ouvriers  innombrables  et  les 
ordonne  en  une  pens6e  commune,  en  un  int^r^t  general,  la 
classe  ouvrifere  a  besoin  de  faire  appel  a  toutes  les  capacitds, 
d'exciter  toutes  les  intelligences  et  toutes  les  6nergies  qui  sont 
en  elle.  Elle  a  besoin  de  mettre  en  valeur  et  en  pleine  valeur 
toutes  les  forces  de  pens6e,  toutes  les  forces  de  vouloir, 
d6clar6es  ou  secrfetes,  6veill6es  ou  dormantes,  dans  toutes  ses 
federations,  dans  tous  ses  groupes,  dans  tous  ses  individus.  Et 
au  moment  ou  le  socialisme  met  ainsi  en  branle  les  esprits  et 
les  consciences,  il  ne  leur  permet  pas  de  s'arr^ter  a  un  terme 
prochain  ou  de  s'enfermer  dans  un  cercle  6troit.  11  oblige  les 
f6d6r6s  de  metier  a  regarder  au  dela  de  leur  federation,  les 
syndiques  au  dela  du  syndicat,  les  cooperateurs  au  dela  des 
cooperatives  et  de  la  cooperation  elle-meme,  les  verriers  au 
dela  de  la  Verrerie  Ouvrifere,  tous  au  dela  de  la  vie  cor- 
porative ;  il  les  oblige  a  se  mouvoir  par  la  pensee  dans  la 
communaute  ouvrifere,  c'est  a-dire  dans  Thumanite  elle-meme  : 
puisque  la  classe  ouvrifere,  en  abolissant  le  regime  capi- 
taliste,  ne  suscitera  pas  la  domination  d'une  autre  classe, 
mais  abolira  toutes  les  classes  et  proclamera  Tordre  humain. 
Le  socialisme  ne  pourrait  ainsi  briser  les  cercles  imme- 
diats  de  pensee  et  d'interet  pour  ouvrir  a  la  classe  ouvrifere 
tout  le  champ  de  Thistoire  s'il  ne  portait  au  plus  haut  la 
puissance  intellectuelle  et  morale  de  tous  les  travailleurs.  Ce 
n'est  pas  avec  des  automates  qu'il  sortirait  de  Tautomatisme 
capitaliste.  II  a  besoin  d'hommes  pour  creer  Thumanite.  II  a 
tesoin  d'hommes  pour  preparer  la  revolution,  et  aprfes  la 
revolution  aussi,  il  aura  besoin  d'hommes  et  d'initiatives 
toujours  eveiliees  pour  assurer,  dans  la  propriete  et  la  production 
communes,  toute  la  vie,  toute  Texpansion  des  forces  indi- 
viduelles,  Mais  de  m6me  qu'aujourd'hui,  sans  la  pesante 
servitude  et  la  deprimante  monotonie  du  regime  capitaliste,  le 
socialisme  salt  eveiller  les  activites  ouvrieres  et  concilier  meme 
avec  la  legalite  bourgeoise  des  formes  nouvelles  de  propriete, 
il  saura  concilier  avec  I'harmonie  de  la  communaute  organis6e 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXV.  8 


114  COSMOPOLIS. 

Tentifere  et  audacieuse  liberty  des  individus.  Dfes  maintenant, 
le  besoin  qu'a  le  prol6tariat  d'une  action  propre,  immediate,  est 
un  signe  et  un  gage  de  liberty.  Dans  I'usine,  les  ouvriers  ne 
d61ib6rent  pas  ;  ils  ob6issent.  Au  Parlement,  il  ne  d^libdrent 
que  par  Tinterm^diaire  de  repr6sentants  lointains  et  peu  nom- 
breux.  Dans  les  syndicats,  dans  les  cooperatives  les  ouvriers 
d61ibferent  avec  eux-memes  ;  ils  se  prononcent  directement  sur 
des  questions  prdcises.  Ou  ils  nomment  des  d6l6gu6s  trds 
rapproch6s  d'eux,  qui  sont  en  communication  constante  avec 
leur  volont^,  ou  ils  d6cident  eux-memes,  imm^diatement,  sur 
le  fond  meme  des  questions.  Ainsi  Tid^e  de  gouvernement 
direct  du  peuple  par  le  peuple,  qui  a  ^te  inscrite  dans  la 
Constitution  r6publicaine  et  d^mocratique  de  1793,  prend 
forme  dans  Torganisation  economique  du  proletariat. 
Quand  toutes  les  questions  qui  touchent  a  la  vie  de 
I'ouvrier  :  le  travail  et  la  gr^ve,  Tassurance  contre  les  acci- 
dents et  le  chomage,  la  journ6e  de  huit  heures,  le  minimum  de 
salaire,  Tinspection  industrielle,  Thygifene  du  travail,  etc.,  etc., 
auront  ete  discut6es  et  tranch^es  d'abord  par  un  vote  direct 
dans  des  syndicats  comprenant  presque  toute  la  classe  ouvri6re, 
quand  ces  decisions  imm^diates  auront  6\€  coordonn6es  par 
des  congrds  corporatifs  nationaux,  puis  internationaux,  en  ces 
decisions  ultimes,  si  vastes  et  g^n^rales  qu'elles  paraissent, 
retentira  encore  et  se  prolongera  la  pens^e  individuelle, 
distincte,  de  chaque  salarie,  et  ce  m^canisme  conciliera,  autant 
qu'il  est  possible  dans  les  choses  humaines,  la  force  individuelle, 
le  droit  individuel  avec  Tunite  n6cessaire  des  mouvements 
d'ensemble.  L'organisation  6conomique  croissante  du  pro- 
letariat a  done  le  double  eflfet  d'unifier  les  efforts  de  la  classe 
ouvriere  et  d'y  r6pandre  Taction  personnelle  et  la  pens6e  libre. 
A  coup  sur,  tant  que  subsistera  le  regime  capitaliste,  cette 
organisation  ouvrifere,  quelle  que  soit  son  ampleur  et  sa  vie, 
sera  r^duite  a  des  voeux,  le  plus  souvent  impuissants  :  il  lui 
manquera  Tessentiel,  c'est-a-dire  le  pouvoir,  d6tenu  toujours 
en  fait  par  ceux  qui  d6tiennent  la  propri6t6.  Et  c'est  surtout, 
les  travailleurs  le  savent  bien,  comme  moyen  de  groupement 
et  d'6ducation  que  vaut  Torganisation  Economique.  En 
multipliant  les  centres  de  reflexion  et  de  deliberation,  elle 
eveille  partout  4es  activit6s  et  des  libertes  ;  elle  prepare  ainsi 


LE   SOCIALISME    FKANC^AIS.  II5 

la  transformation  sociale  qui  sera  d'autant  plus  decisive  et 
profonde  qu'en  chaque  parcelle  de  la  classe  ouvrifere  vibrera 
une  pens6e  libre  et  une  volont6.  Au  jour  de  la  Revolution 
sociale  tous  ces  groupements  ouvriers,  tous  ces  syndicats  a  la 
fois  autonomes  et  f6d6r6s,  auront  une  double  action.  D'une 
part,  ils  seront  les  organes  tout  prepares  par  lesquels  le  prole- 
tariat, devenu  maitre  du  pouvoir  et  de  la  propriety  par  son  action 
centrale  et  politique,  administrera  la  propriety  commune  et 
donnera  le  branle  a  la  production.  Et  d'autre  part,  cesgroupes 
de  forces,  d'intelligences  et  de  volont6s,  partout  diss6min6s  et 
directement  appliqu6s  a  la  production,  emp^cheront  le  r6gime 
nouveau  de  glisser  a  une  centralisation  abusive  et  de  tourner  en 
bureaucratic.  La  volont6  g6n6rale  et  centrale,  ndcessaire  pour 
assurer  I'harmonie  de  la  production  et  des  besoins,  et  pour 
pr6venir  toute  renaissance  possible  de  I'esprit  d'oligarchie,  ne 
s'imposera  pas  du  dehors  a  la  diversit6  des  groupements.  Elle 
ne  sera  gufere  que  la  coordination  sup6rieure  de  toutes  les 
actions  autonomes,  ais^ment  concili6es  par  le  principe 
dominant  de  la  propri6t6  commune.  Done  Taction  6cono- 
mique  du  proletariat  peut  et  doit  se  d6velopper  largement ;  et 
c'est  avec  une  joie  profonde  que  nous  constatons,  par  la 
croissance  des  cooperatives  ouvriferes  anim^es  de  Tesprit 
socialiste,  par  la  creation  et  les  progrfes  de  la  Verrerie  Ouvrifere, 
par  la  multiplication  des  congrfes  corporatifs,  par  institution 
de  la  Confederation  du  travail  et  la  preparations  d'un  journal 
ouvrier  commun  a  toutes  les  corporations,  les  admirables 
progrfes  de  cette  action  economique. 

Ilsseraient  dangereux,  ils  seraient  meme  funestes,  s'ils  don- 
naient  a  la  classe  ouvrifere  I'illusion  que  Taction  politique  est 
inutile.  Mais  il  n'en  est  rien  ;  et  on  peut  meme  dire  qu'a 
mesure  que  son  action  economique  progresse,  la  classe  ouvrifere 
s'attache  plus  passionnement  a  Taction  politique.  Elle  a  en 
eflet  la  conscience  plus  nette  de  sa  force  propre  et  elle  sait 
qu'elle  ne  peut  plus  etre  dupee  ou  trahie  ;  car  les  traitres 
seraient  immediatement  demasques  et  chaties.  Elle  sait  aussi 
que  les  representants,  les  eius,  ne  peuvent  devenir  une  force 
exclusive  et  absorbante.  II  y  a  de  Taction  pour  tous,  et  par  la 
Vaccord  est  aise.  Je  crois  pouvoir  dire  avec  assurance  qu'au- 
jourd'hui,  entre  les  syndicats  ouvriers  et  les  eius  socialistes 


Il6  COSMOPOLIS. 

il  n'existe  pas  le  plus  16ger  malentendu.  On  I'a  bien  vu  au 
dernier  Congrfes  corporatif  de  Toulouse,  ou  toute  phrase,  t^nit 
parole  qui  semblait  dirig6e  contre  Taction  politique  6tait 
aussitot  et  rigoureusement  condamm6e.  Les  travailleurs 
savent  bien  que  r6duits  a  Taction  6conomique,  aux  cooperatives, 
aux  syndicats,  ils  laisseraient  a  Tennemi  toutes  les  positions 
dominantes.  Si  les  salaries  se  bornaient  a  se  grouper  pour  la 
defense  de  leurs  int6r6ts  imm6diats,  tels  qu'ils  r6sultent  de  la 
soci6t6  pr6sente,  ils  reconnaitraient  par  la  mdme  cette  soci6t6  ; 
ils  se  condamneraient  eux-memes  au  salariat  a  perp6tuit6  ;  ils 
proclameraient  T6ternit6  du  capitalisme.  Ils  ne  peuvent 
vraiment  am61iorer  leur  condition  et  s'61ever  a  T6tat  d'hommes 
libres  qu'en  arrachant  a  la  classe  capitaliste  la  propriety,  les 
moyens  de  production  et  en  en  faisant  la  propri6t6  commune  de 
la  nation  et  des  producteurs.  Or,  cette  propri6t6  capitaliste, 
cette  propri6t6  de  classe  est  gardde  par  toutes  les  forces  de  TEtat 
capitaliste,  des  gouvernements  de  classe.  Contre  les  ouvTiers, 
contre  les  paysans  qui  voudraient  retenir  pour  eux-m^mes  le 
produit  de  leur  travail  et  revendiquer  les  richesses  cr66es  par 
eux,  le  capital  est  arm6  de  toutes  les  lois,  de  tous  les  juges,  de 
tous  les  soldats.  II  pent  priver  de  travail,  en  vertu  du  droit 
actuel  de  propri6t6,  tous  les  ouvriers  qu'il  considfere  comme 
des  rebelles  et  frapper  ainsi  d'excommunication  capitaliste 
tous  les  combattants  du  droit  nouveau.  Les  mois  et  les  ann6es 
de  prison,  les  amendes,  les  canons  et  les  fusils  sont  au  service 
de  sa  16galit6  spoliatrice.  C'est  la  propriety  qui  donne  le 
pouvoir  a  la  classe  capitaliste,  et  c'est  le  pouvoir  qui  lui 
conserve  la  propri6t6.  II  faut  briser  ce  cercle  en  conqu6rant 
le  pouvoir  et  par  lui  la  propri6t6.  Aussi  bien,  et  sans  que 
je  veuille  entrer  ici  dans  Texamen  minutieux  de  T6tat  politique 
present  de  la  France,  jamais  la  classe  capitaliste  n'avait  donn6 
k  la  classe  ouvrifere  un  plus  d6cisif  exemple  d*action  politique. 
Jamais  Tint6rdt  de  classe  qui  est  toujours  present,  mais  parfois 
d'une  pr6sence  obscure,  a  la  vie  gouvernementale  ne  s*6tait 
plus  hardiment  d6couvert.  Contre  le  socialisme  tous  les 
anciens  partis  se  groupent ;  devant  la  n6cessit6  "  de  la  defense 
sociale"  toutes  les  dissidences  secondaires  s'effacent.  En 
outre,  k  Tappel  de  M.  Waldeck-Rousseau,  les  syndicats  patronaux, 
les  syndicats  de  la  grande  industrie  et  du  grand  commerce 


LE   SOCIALISME   FRAN^AIS.  II7 

entrent  ouvertement  dans  la  lutte  politique  et  61ectorale.  Et 
ce  n'est  pas  le  moindre  succte  du  socialisme  d'avoir  ainsi 
contraint  ses  adversaires  a  se  grouper  pour  la  resistance.  lis 
trouvent  a  coup  sur  dans  ce  groupement  une  force  momen- 
tan6e,  et  c'est  la  la  raison  maitresse  de  la  solidit6  et  de  la 
dur6e  du  ministfere  de  M.  M61ine.  Mais,  aussi,  quand  ce 
systfeme  de  toutes  les  forces  conservatrices  sera  d6cid6ment 
vaincu,  quelle  pouss6e  du  prol6tariat  1  Et  dfes  maintenant, 
quelle  victoire  pour  nous  d'avoir  amen6  tous  les  partis  politiques 
a  ramasser  et  a  pr6ciser  leur  physionomie  incertaine  et  flottante 
et  a  prendre  leur  vraie  figure,  figure  de  classe  I  Par  la,  la 
question  sociale  est  en  quelque  sorte  a  vif  en  tous  les  d^bats,  et 
une  soci6t6  est  singuliferement  menacte  quand  elle  est  obligee 
de  se  mettre  elle-menae  aux  voix  tous  les  jours,  quand  elle  est 
elle-meme,  jusqu'en  son  fond,  Tenjeu  de  toutes  les  luttes 
parlementaires  et  de  toutes  les  consultations  61ectorales.  La 
classe  capitaliste,  r6duite  a  entrer  comme  classe  dans  la 
bataille  des  partis  et  a  faire  de  son  privilege  le  centre  d'un 
continuel  combat  est  comme  un  joueur  qui  devrait  chaque 
fois  jouer  toute  sa  fortune.  Forc6ment  il  la  doit  perdre. 
Aussi  la  classe  ouvrifere  s'empresse-t-elle  a  combattre  sur  ce 
terrain  politique  et  Electoral  la  classe  ennemie.  Partout  des 
candidatures  socialistes  se  preparent.  Partout  le  parti  socialiste 
frangais  se  propose  d'appeler  a  lui  le  suffrage  universel  et  de 
conqu^rir  la  majority  dans  les  assembldes  qui  font  la  loi. 

Je  sais  bien  que  cette  action  61ectorale  et  parlementaire  du 
socialisme  se  heurte  a  deux  objections.  On  nous  dit  d'abord  : 
Est-ce  que  vous  devenez  des  16galitaires,  et  attendez-vous 
seulement  Tavfenement  politique  du  proletariat  du  jeu  "  r6gu- 
lier "  d'une  Constitution  faite  par  ses  ennemis  et  mani6e  par 
eux  ?  Pas  le  moins  du  monde.  Nous  ne  reconnaissons  pas 
I'organisation  gouvernementale  presente  comme  un  6tat  de 
droit  :  nous  la  subissons  comme  un  6tat  de  fait,  et  nous  con- 
sid^rerions  comme  une  trahison  de  ne  pas  profiter  de  toutes 
les  ressources  que  nous  offrira  Thistoire  pour  y  mettre  fin. 
Dans  un  pays  ou  la  bourgeoisie  est  arriv6e  au  pouvoir  par  les 
voies  r6volutionnaires,  ou  c'est  par  des  moyens  revolution - 
naires  aussi  que  depuis  un  sidcle  r^publiques  et  monarchies 
se  sont  renversees  les  unes  les  autres,  sous  une  republique  qui 


Il8  COSMOPOLIS. 

elle-meme  est  sortie  d'un  mouvement  de  la  rue,  il  est  impos- 
sible au  proletariat  socialiste  de  s'interdire  d'avance  une  route, 
une  issue,  une  chance  de  vaincre.     II  est  a  r6gard  de  Tordre 
capitaliste    ce    que    nos    r6publicains    6taient    a    regard   de 
I'Empire,  irreconciliables,  et  il  surveille  tous  les  evenements, 
pret  a  en  tirer  parti  pour  sa  liberation.     Mais  il  commettrait  la 
faute  la  plus  grave  si  dans  Tattente  enervante  de  ce  que  j'ap- 
pellerai  les   hypotheses  historiques,  il   n6gligeait   les   moyens 
d'action  certains,  immediats,  qui  s'offrent  a  lui.     Aussi  le  parti 
socialiste    franipais    tout   entier   est-il   decide  a   s'adresser   au 
suffrage  universel,  a  le  mettre  en  mouvement  et,  s'il  se  peut, 
a   le   conquerir.     II   le   faut,  car   une   revolution   sociale  qui 
transformera,  sur  toute  I'etendue  du  pays,  le  mode  de  propri6te 
et  les  conditions  de  la  vie,  ne  peut  aboutir  si  elle  n'est  pre- 
paree  dans  les  esprits  ;  or,  par  la  lutte  eiectorale,  le  sociaiisme 
entre  en  contact  avec  tous  les  esprits  et  tous  les  interets,  et  il  se 
fait  ainsi  une  adaptation  prealable  du  sociaiisme  au  pays  tout 
entier,  ou  plutot  une  adaptation  du  pays  au  sociaiisme.     De 
plus,  les  premiers  mandats  conquis  permettent  au  sociaiisme 
de  developper  avec  plus  d'edat  sa  doctrine  ;  ils  lui  permettent 
aussi  d'agir  quelque  peu  sur  la  legislation  ouvrifere  et  paysanne ; 
et  s'il  peut,  par  des  mesures  transitoires,  accroitre  la  liberte  et 
le  bien-etredes  salaries,  il  accroit  par  cela  meme  leur  force  pour 
des  revendications  plus  hardies.     Enfin,  pour  aller  au  fond 
des   choses,  le   suffrage  universel  joue,  dans  la  soci6te  capi- 
taliste,  un   role   rcvolutionnaire  :    il   est,  si  je  puis  dire,  une 
legalite  r6volutionnaire.     Car  d'abord,  il  est  en  contradiction 
absolue  avec  la   hierarchie  capitaliste ;    le  salarie  n'a  aucune 
puissance  de  direction  a  I'usine  ;  il  est  admis,  au  meme  titre 
et  au  meme  degre  que  le  grand  patron,  a  diriger  les  affaires  de 
la  nation.     Et  comment  les  salaries  se  resigneraient-ils  inde- 
finiment  a  un  role  subalterne  et  presque  nul  dans  la  conduite 
de  leur  propre  vie  quand  ils  sont  admis,  au  moins  en  principe, 
a  un  role  decisif  dans  la  conduite  de  la  vie  g6nerale  ?     Par 
la  le  suffrage  universel  est  un  rappel  constant  a  I'egalite,  une 
protestation  permanente  contre  I'etat  de  minorite  sociale  ou 
est  tenue  la  classe  ouwifere.     Et  il  est,  si  je  puis  dire,  pour  la 
societe  capitaliste,  une  base  d'ebranlement.     De  plus,  surtout 
dans  les  pays  comme  la  France,  ou  aucune  autorite  du  passe, 


LE   SOCIALISME    FKAN^AIS.  II9 

aucune   force   de   droit   historique    ou  de   droit   divin    ne   le 
domine,   qu'est-ce   que   le   suffrage   universel,   sinon   la  sou- 
verainete  absolue  de  la  loi,  c'est-a-dire  la   subordination   de 
tous  les  int6rets  et  de  tous  les  "  droits  "  a  la  volont6  g6n6rale  ? 
Theoriquement  et  en  fait,  si  demain  une  majority  socialiste 
entrait  au   Parlement,  elle  pourrait  abolir  legalement  la  pro- 
pri^te  capitaliste.     Sans  doute,  s'il  n'y  avait  la  qu'une  possi- 
bilite   abstraite,   qu'une  hypothfese  chim6rique,  c'est   un   jeu 
d'6cole  ou  nul  ne  s'attarderait.     Mais  aujourd'hui,  au   point 
ou  sont  les  choses  et  les  esprits,  la  classe  capitaliste  ne  peut 
certainement  pas   se   promettre  a  elle-m^me  que  le  suffrage 
universel  ne   se   donnera  pas   au  socialisme.      Elle   ne   peut 
done  regarder  sans  crainte  une   16galit6  qui  a  tout  moment 
peut    se    retourner   contre   elle-meme  ;    elle   sent,   avec   une 
inquietuoe  croissante,  "qu'elle-loge  son   ennemi   avec   elle," 
et   qu'au   fond   de   la   16galit6   dort,   d'un   sommeil   l^ger,   la 
revolution.     Bien  aveugle  la  classe  ouvriere,  bien  aveugle  le 
parti  socialiste  s'il  ne  poussait  pas  a  bout  cet  avantage  !     Mais 
il  s'y   emploie   partout   avec   une   extreme   ardeur.     Et   sans 
doute,  si  ces  sortes  de  conjectures  n'etaient  point  t6m6raires, 
c'est   d'une    contradiction    croissante    entre-  le    principe    du 
suffrage  universel  et  le  principe  capitaliste  que  sortiront  les 
cvenements  decisifs,  les  commotions  decisives.     Deja,   Texis- 
tence   d'un  ministere  simplement  radical,  le  ministfere  Bour- 
geois, avait  abouti  a  une  situation  tout  a  fait  critique.     Grace 
a  I'appoint  de  notre  parti,  qui  d^lib^rement  le   soutenait,  ii 
av^dit  une  majorite  a  la  Chambre  ;  il  avait  done  avec  lui  les 
delegues    imm^diats  du   suffrage   universel.      Mais   la   classe 
capitaliste,    qui    se    croyait    menacee   par   I'impot   progressif 
ef  par  la  loi  des  incompatibilites  qui  excluait  du  Parlement 
'oligarchie  industrielle  et  tinanciere,  opposait  une  resistance 
3ciiarnee  ;   vaincue  a   la  Chambre,  cette  resistance  s'organisa 
^ti     S6nat,   et  devant   Thostilite   syst6matique  de    celui-ci    le 
gouvernement,  pris  de  peur,  battit  en  retraite.     Oui,  mais  s'il 
^v^i^it  6te  fiddle  au  principe  et  au  droit  sup6rieur  du  suffrage 
un  iversel  ?     Si,  au  nom  du  suffrage  universel,  il  avait  accepte 
^^   pouss6  a  bout  le  conflit  ?   La  force  populaire,  d'accord  cette 
iois  avec  la  force  gouvernementale,  eut  certainement  emport6 
Vc>bstacie.     Et  la  voie  etant  ouverte,  elle  eut  pousse  plus  loin  ; 


lYo  COSMOPOLIS. 

cetait  un  regimie  nouveau,  une  R6publiqtie  nbiivelle  ou  Tid^e 
socialiste  eut  pris  corps.  Et  c'est  bien  de  quoi  s'effray^rent 
les  ministres  radicaux.  A  leurs  amis  irrit6s  qui  les  gourman- 
daient  de  leur  retraite,  ils  r^pondaient  :  Mais  fallait-il  done 
forcer  tous  les  ressorts  du  regime  parlementaire  et  aller  vers 
I'inconnu  ?  Ainsi  la  logique  meme  du  suffrage  universe!  est 
f6conde  en  surprises,  et  par  I'imprevu  d'un  conflit  parle- 
mentaire elle  peut  about ir  soudain  a  un  grand  mouvement 
social.  ]e  disais,  il  y  a  quelques  mois  (qu'on  me  permette  ce 
souvenir  personnel),  k  un  des  hommes  les  plus  considerables 
du  parti  radical  :  Par  sa  retraite  votre  parti  s'est  tu6.  Car  la 
democratic  se  dit  d^s  maintenant  qu'ayant  recul6  une  premiere 
fois  devant  Tobstacle,  vous  reculerez  toujours.  Que  feraient 
vos  amis  demain,  s'ils  revenaient  au  pouvoir  ?  Demain  vous 
vous  heurteriez,  pour  vos  projets  de  r6formes,  a  la  meme  resis- 
tance des  hautes  classes,  a  la  meme  hostility  syst6matique  du 
S^nat.  Et  qui  done  vous  suivra  dans  la  bataille,  sachant 
d'avance  qu'a  Theure  decisive  vous  vous  refuserez  au  combat  ? 
— Sans  doute,  me  r^pondit-il,  il  faudrait  cette  fois  aller  resolu- 
ment  contre  Tobstacle  ;  il  faudrait  inscrire  au  budget  une 
grande  reforme  d'impot,  la  faire  voter  par  la  Chambre,  la 
porter  dans  le  budget  au  Senat,  et  si  eelui-ci  r6siste,  ap- 
pliquer  la  reforme  sans  lui,  pereevoir  I'impot  sans  lui,  au  nom 
du  suffrage  universel,  seul  souverain. — Oui,  e'est  la  souve- 
rainete  du  suffrage  universel,  mais  e'est  aussi  la  revolution... 
Car  les  hautes  classes  r6sisteront  a  cet  impot  nouveau,  et  e'est 
la  lutte  direete  contre  la  grande  propriete  financiere,  indus- 
trielle  et  terrienne  que  vous  devrez  engager. — Si  j'ai  fait 
allusion  a  ces  incidents  de  notre  vie  parlementaire  et  poli- 
tique, ce  n'est  pas  pour  meler  a  cette  etude  le  moindre  grain 
de  polt^mique  ou  la  moindre  anecdote  ;  c'est  pour  marquer, 
par  un  exemple  recent  et  precis,  la  force  d'entrainement  du 
suffrage  universel,  la  veitu  revolutionnaire  secrete  qui  est  en 
lui  et  qui  brusquement,  a  une  secousse  un  peu  forte,  peut 
edater  ;  c'est  pour  montrer  combien  le  parti  socialiste  est 
consequent  avee  lui-meme  en  acceptant  resolument  le  suffrage 
universel  comme  champ  de  combat  et  en  se  meiant  a  la  lutte 
electorate  et  parlementaire. 

Cela  est  si  vrai,  qu'a  cette  heure,  je  erois  pouvoir  dire  sans 


^E  SOCIALISME    PRAN^AIS.  I2l 

esprit  de  parti  que  les  adversaires  du  socialisme  cherchent  a 
limiter  I'action  du  suffrage  universel.  A  coup  sur  il  ne  s'agit 
pas  chez  nous,  comme  on  I'a  fait  r6cemment  en  Saxe,  d'abolir 
le  suffrage  universel  et  de  revenir  au  suffrage  censitaire.  II  ne 
s'agit  pas  pr6cisement  de  mutiler  le  suffrage  universel,  mais 
de  le  subordonner.  Fortifier  le  S6nat,  qui  est  61u  au  suffrage 
indirect  et  improportionnel,  lui  donner  peu  a  peu  non  seule- 
ment  un  pouvoir  de  controle,  mais  un  pouvoir  de  direction 
faire  d^pendre  les  minist^res  de  lui,  au  moins  autant  que  de  la 
Chambre,  fortifier  aussi  Taction  de  la  Pr6sidence,  r6server  au 
pouvoir  ex6cutif  tout  le  secret,  toute  la  conduite  de  la  politique 
ext6rieure,  tenir  les  Chambres  sous  la  menace  perp6tuelle  de 
dissolutions  violentes,  suivies  d'une  action  61ectorale  6nergique 
de  Tadministration,  diminuer  la  representation  61ectorale  des 
grandes  villes  en  retranchant  du  calcul  de  la  population  le 
chiffredes  strangers  et  maintenirla  representation  des  pluspetites 
circonscriptions  rurales,  si  exigu  que  soit  le  chiffre  des  electeurs 
rejeter  les  propositions  socialistes  qui  suppriment  les  conditions 
de  residence  et  restituent  ainsi  a  la  partie  flottante  de  la  classe 
ouvriere,  tous  les  jours  accrue,  le  droit  de  vote,  voila  la  tendance 
visible,  ou  mieux,  voila  le  plan  avou6  et  partiellement  r6alis6  des 
conservateurs  et  gouvernementaux  de  toute  nuance.  La  position 
est  done  bien  nette,  et  ce  que  j'appellerai  le  paradoxe  politique 
et  social  est  bien  Evident.  Les  conservateurs,  ceux  qui 
devraient,  semble-t-il,  compter  avant  tout  sur  le  poids  de  la 
masse,  sur  le  poids  des  habitudes,  des  traditions,  des  pr6juges,  se 
d6fient  de  plus  en  plus  du  suffrage  universel.  Les  socialistes, 
le  parti  novateur  et  r^volutionnaire  qui  semble  ne  devoir 
compter,  tant  qu'il  n'aura  pas  le  prestige  du  pouvoir  et  rirr6- 
sistible  propagande  des  rdsultats,  que  sur  la  minority  cons- 
ciente,  €clair6e  et  hardie,  a  de  plus  en  plus  confiance  au  suffrage 
universel.  Et  il  se  pent  que  ce  soit  pour  le  d6fendre  qu'il  soit 
conduit  aux  plus  d^cisives  et  aux  plus  heureuses  batailles. 
Grande  force  !  car  il  se  rattache  ainsi  a  la  tradition  historique 
de  la  democratie  !  II  va  vers  un  ordre  nouveau  sans  rompre 
la  profonde  continuity  r6publicaine ;  et  il  touche,  dans  le  combat, 
au  sol  mdme  de  la  R^publique  ;  il  recueille,  par  ce  contact,  les 
Energies  les  plus  nobles  de  la  revolution  bourgeoise  pour  les 
transmettre  a  la  revolution  prol6tarienne,  et  en  mcme  temps 


122  COSMOPOLIS. 

qu'il  est  le  parti  du  proletariat,  de  la  classe  opprimee  et  spoliee, 
il  est  le  parti  de  la  nation  libre.  Oui,  ^rande  force  et  grand 
resultat ! 

II  est  vrai  qu'on  nous  oppose  encore  qu'en  agissant  ou 
croyant  agir  sur  le  suffrage  universel,  c'est  le  socialisme  au 
contraire  qui  subit  Taction  de  celui-ci.  Les  socialistes,  pour 
ainener  a  eux  I'opinion,  composeraient  avec  les  prejug6s  de 
Topinion ;  pour  exercer  une  influence  dans  les  assemblies 
electorales  ou  les  assembleesparlementaires,  ils  abandonneraient 
peu  a  peu,  comme  choquantes  ou  inquietantes,  les  parties 
decisives  de  leur  doctrine,  les  parties  les  plus  hautes  ;  leur 
marche  vers  le  pouvoir  ne  serait  qu'une  marche  descendante, 
et  tout  au  bout,  ou,  pour  mieux  dire  tout  au  fond,  ce  qui  triom- 
pherait  ce  serait  un  socialisme  abaiss6  et  travesti,  une  d6rision 
ou  un  reniement.  C'est  la  la  vraie  doctrine  anarchiste,  et  elle 
pent  se  r6sumer  ainsi  :  Renoncer  a  agir  sur  les  hommes  par 
les  moyens  les  plus  r6pandus  et  les  plus  aisds,  de  peur  de  se 
corrompre  au  contact  des  corruptions  qu'on  veut  guerir  et  de 
s'abaisser  par  une  ambition  servile  au  niveau  de  ceux  qu'on 
pretend  grandir.  Soit,  et  s'il  en  est  vraiment  ainsi,  il  faut 
renoncer  a  agir  sur  le  suffrage  universel  et  par  lui  ;  car  il  est 
en  effet  comme  plonge  dans  les  influences  capitalistes.  Ceux 
qui  d6tiennent  la  propriete  en  abusent  ou  en  usent,  comme  on 
voudra,  pour  corrompre  ou  intimider  ceux  qui  sont  dans  leur 
d^pendance.  Et  parmi  les  salaries  eux-memes  beaucoup  sont  a 
ce  point  6crascs  de  misfere  et  de  triste  labeur  qu'ils  n'ont  plus  la 
force  de  penser  et  d'esp6rer.  Ou  meme  ils  sont  a  ce  point 
gouvern6s  par  I'habitude,  facponnds  par  la  forme  pr6sente  des 
institutions,  tromp^s  par  Tapparente  ressemblance  d'aujourd'hui 
et  d'hier,  et  comme  endormis  par  le  rythme  monotone  des 
choses  dans  leur  courte  experience,  qu'il  ne  peuvent  meme 
concevoir  la  possibilite  d'un  ordre  vraiment  nouveau.  La 
pensile  universelle,  c'est-a-dire  le  suffrage  universel,  etant 
ainsi  dominie  et  model6e  par  le  capitalisme,  comment  s'en 
servir  utilement  pour  combattre  le  capitalisme  ?  N'est-ce 
pas  demander  du  secours  a  Tennemi  ?  Mais  les  Ihcoriciens 
anarchistes  oublient  que  c'est  ainsi  que  procedent  toujours 
la  nature  meme  et  les  soci(it6s.  Ce  n'est  pas  du  dehors 
et  en  sc  rcfusant  a  tout  contact  qu'il  est  possible  de   d6sa- 


LE   SOCIALISME    FRANgAIS.  1 23 

gr6ger  une  force  ou  de  transformer  un  systfeme.  Dans 
l'6volution  de  la  vie,  quand  les  espfeces  animales,  en  leur 
complexit6  et  perfection  croissantes,  ont  touch6,  si  je  puis  dire, 
a  la  limite  de  Thonime,  si  le.type  humain  a  apparu,  ce  n'estpas 
en  s'affirmant  comme  une  entity  d6daigneuse  et  abstraite,  mais 
en  utilisant  toutes  les  ressources  secretes  d'humanite  que 
contenait  Tanimalit^  sup6rieure.  L'humanit^  future  n'errait 
pas  comme  une  abstraction  et  un  fantome  a  la  lisifere  des  forets 
primitives ;  elle  6mergeait  comme  une  r6alit6  de  chair  et  d'os 
du  plus  profond  de  la  vie  animale.  Et  si  un  observateur 
a  tendance  anarchiste  eut  assists  alors  aux  transformations 
qui  se  pr6paraient,  s'il  eut  surpris  sous  le  front  a  peine  relev^  de 
la  bete  la  premiere  lueur,  le  premier  pressentiment  et  la 
premiere  6bauche  d'une  pens^e  plus  claire  et  d'une  conscience 
plus  vaste,  il  eut  dit  a  ce  r^ve  naissant  et  incertain  d'hu- 
manit^  :  Garde-toi  de  te  commettre  avec  la  bestialit6  des 
instincts  ;  d^tache-toi  de  Tanimalit^  ;  ne  compte  pas,  pour 
parvenir  a  Tetre,  sur  les  forces  de  la  vie  animale,  puisque  tu 
en  seras  la  negation,  et  n'arrive  pas  a  la  vie  souille  de  toutes  les 
violences  et  de  toutes  les  bestialit^s  du  pass6.  Mais  le  secret  de 
de  la  nature  est  plus  profond  et  plus  complexe  que  cette 
philosophie  vraiment  trop  simpliste.  Elle  sait  utiliser  au 
profit  des  formes  qu'elle  veut  cr^er  les  ^»lements  et  les  mouve- 
nients  des  formes  qu'elle  veut  dissoudre  ou  d^passer.  Et  de 
meme,  dans  revolution  des  soci6t6s,  les  formes  sociales  contien- 
nent  en  germe  les  formes  qui  les  doivent  remplacer.  Elles 
contiennent  leur  propre  negation,  et  ce  n'est  pas  en  s'isolant 
de  la  r6alit6  qu'on  prepare  I'avenir,  c'est  en  poussant  a 
I 'extreme,  par  une  intervention  active,  les  contradictions 
internes  dont  les  soci6t6s  qui  ont  fini  leur  role  doivent 
perir.  Le  capitalisme  contient  des  contradictions  multiples, 
rnais  deux  surtout  qui  sont  vraiment  fecondes.  D'une 
part,  il  n'a  pu  accroitre  sa  puissance  qu'en  agglom6rant  les 
^^uvriers  par  grandes  masses  et  en  accroissant  par  la  meme  la 
florae  de  la  classe  ennemie.  D'autre  part,  il  n'a  pu  se  develop- 
per  qu'en  brisant  toutes  les  barrieres,  tous  les  compactements, 
toutes  les  hierarchies  du  monde  ftodal,  et  il  a  suscite  par  la  la 
cl6mocratie.  II  a  ainsi  prepare  sa  defaite  en  nivelant  le  champ 
<lu  combat  ou,  plus  ais6ment,  le  pietinera  la  foule.     Done  le 


124  COSMO  POLIS. 

vrai  role  des  socialistes,  des  r6volutionnaires,  n'est  pas  de  s'isoler 
dans  une  sorte  d'ascetisme  social,  par  je  ne  sais  quel  souci  de 
puret6  et  de  perfection,  et  de  regarder  au  loin  comme  la  Saint- 
Antoine   de   Flaubert,  sur  le   disque  du   soleil   qui  monte  a 
I'horizon  du  desert,  "  la  face  resplendissante  du  Seigneur,"  la 
face  eblouissante  de  rhomme  nouveau.     Leur  role  est  de  se 
commettre  avec  la  soci^t^  d'aujourd'hui  et  d'y  fortifier  de  leur 
action  les  elements  qui  la  doivent  dissoudre.     D'une  part,  ils 
doivent  aider  le  plus  possible,  comme  le  capitalisme  lui-meme, 
mais  contre  lui,  au  groupement  des  forces  ouvrieres.     D'autre 
part,  ils   doivent  appeler   a   eux  le  plus   possible  le   suffrage 
universel,  qui  est   une   suite   de   la  democratic  bourgeoise  et 
qui  se  tournera  contre  la  puissance  de  la  bourgeoisie.     Aussi 
bien,   toutes   les  objections  de   Tanarchisme    contre    Taction 
eiectorale  et  parlementaire  s'appliquent  a  toutes  les  formes  de 
Taction.     Ce  n'est  pas  seulement   en   sollicitant    un    mandat 
16gislatif  que  les  hommes  risquent  de  d^naturer  leur  pens6e. 
Meme    en   communiquant    notre    pens6e   sans    aucun    objet 
immediat,  nous  risquons,  par  ce  besoin  profond  de  sympathie 
qui  est  en  tout  homme,  ou  pour  mieux  ouvrir  a  nos  id^es  des 
cerveaux  peu  prepares,  de  faire  des  concessions  excessives 
pr6jug6  environnant.     A  plus  forte  raison   ceux  qui   entren. 
dans  Taction  syndicale  et  cooperative  sont-ils  exposes  a  oublifc 
les  fins  socialistes  dernieres  qui  seules  donnent  a  cette  actio 
toute  sa  valeur  et  tout  son  sens  ;  ils  sont  exposes  aussi  a  sub 
des  tentations  d'ambition   personnelle,  de  convoitise   ou 
vanit6.   Et  pourtant  les  anarchistes  fran^ais  se  melent  de  plus 
plus  a  tous  les  mouvements.     C'est  Jean  Grave  qui  r6pudie  1 
excentricites  individualistes,  les  paradoxes  d*6go*isme  qui  so 
pretexte  d'autonomie  absolue  rompent  toute  solidarity  social^ 
C'est  Bancel  qui   preconise  le  mouvement  cooperatif.     Tol^ 
entrent  dans  les  syndicats,  dans  les  Bourses   du  Travail  q 
n'acceptent  pourtant,  en  aucune  fa^on,  la  negation  de  Tactic:: 
politique.    Et  en  verite,  c'est  seulement  par  un  scrupule  d'amoiM'- 
propre   ou  il  entre,  semble-t-il,   quelque   inconsequence,  qw 
les  theoriciens  anarchistes  n'acceptent  pas  Taction  elector 
et   parlementaire   au   meme    titre   que   Taction    syndicale 
cooperative.    C'est  done  sans  contradiction  et  sans  defaillan 
aucune  que  la   classe  ouvriere  constitute   en   parti   politiqi 


LE   SOCIALISME    FRAN?A1S.  I25 

accepte  ou  recherche  le  combat  par  le  suffrage  universe),  en 
meme  temps  qu'elle  s'organise  en  f6d6ration  6conomique. 

Aussi  bien,  telle  est  la  n6cessit6  de  Taction  politique  que  la 
classe  ouvrifere  y  aboutit  rien  qu'en  poussant  un  peu  son 
organisation  6conomique.  Je  ne  parle  pas  du  continue!  recours 
des  Congr^s  corporatifs  au  Parlement  qui  peut  seul  aujourd'hui 
traduire  en  lois  les  voeux  de  la  classe  ouvrifere.  Je  ne  parle  pas 
non  plus  du  besoin  qu'ont  les  syndicats  de  Taction  politique  pour 
prot^ger  leur  liberty,  leur  existence  meme  et  leur  d6veloppe- 
ment  16gal.  II  serait  en  effet  beaucoup  plus  difficile  a  la 
bourgeoisie,  si  affol6e  qu'elle  fut  de  reaction,  d'abolir  le  suffrage 
universel  lui-m6me  que  de  supprimer  pour  la  classe  ouvrifere  le 
droit  de  groupement  et  de  coalition.  Car  au  lieu  de  toucher 
seulement  aux  droits  de  la  classe  ouvrifere  ou  meme  de  la 
fraction  la  plus  militante  de  cette  classe,  elle  toucherait  a  des 
int6r^ts  et  a  des  forces  multiples,  elle  blesserait,  par  une  restric- 
tion du  droit  de  suffrage  les  ouvriers  indiff6rents  eux-memes  et 
la  petite  bourgeoisie.  Le  suffrage  universel  est  done  a  la  fois  le 
terrain  le  plus  large  et  le  plus  solideou  la  classe  ouvrifere  puisse 
s*appuyer  :  c'est  le  roc  que  hi  bourgeoisie  r^actionnaire  ne 
pourrait  dissoudre  "sans  ouvrir  la  terre  jusqu'aux  abimes"  et 
sans  se  pr6cipiter  elle-m6me.  Mais  de  plus,  a  mesure  que 
Torganisation  6conomique  du  proletariat  se  perfectionne  et 
s'6tend,  a  mesure  que  les  syndicats  se  f6dferent  et  que  les 
federations  elles-memes  se  groupent,  ce  ne  sont  plus  les  int6rets 
parcellaires  de  telle  ou  telle  corporation,  de  tel  ou  tel  metier  ou 
branche  de  metier,  ce  sont  les  interets  les  plus  generaux  de  toutes 
les  corporations  et  de  tous  les  metiers  que  la  classe  ouvrifere 
a  en  face  :Telle.  Par  exemple,  un  journal  qui  sera  le  journal 
commun  et  la  propriete  commune  de  toutes  les  organisations 
ouvriferes  federees  ne  pourra  vivre  et  agir  qu'en  accueillant,  au- 
dessus  des  innombrables  revendications  particuliferes  et  locales, 
les  revendications  generales  qui  peuvent  interesser  et  ebranler 
le  proletariat  tout  entier.  Or,  par  ces  revendications  generales 
le  proletariat,  meme  dans  son  action  corporative,  se  constitue  a 
Tetat  de  classe ;  il  aboutit  ainsi  invinciblement  a  une  lutte 
d'ensemble,  a  un  effort  vers  le  pouvoir,  c*est-a-dire  a  Taction 
politique  elle-meme.  Ainsi,  bien  loin  que  Taction  corporative 
du  proletariat  puisse  se  suffire,  elle  ne  peut  se  developper  sans 


126  COSMOPOLIS. 

se  rapprocher  de  Taction  politique  ;  elle  tend  vers  celle-ci  d'un 
mouvement  logique  et  irresistible  comme  en  math^matiques 
la  figure  inscrite  tend  vers  la  figure  enveloppante,  qui  en  est  la 
limite  et  Tachfevement. 

Et  certes,  en  allant  ainsi  a  Taction  politique,  en  participant  a 
Taction  ^lectorale    et  parlementaire,  la  classe  ouvrifere   et    le 
parti   socialiste    ne   risquent   pas  d'adult6rer  leur  doctrine   et 
d'abaisser  leur  id^al.     En  fait,  si  les  limites  de  cette  6tude  me 
le  permettaient,  il  serait  ais6  de  d^montrer,  par  Thistoire  du 
parti  socialiste  fran^ais  depuis   quelques  ann6es,  que  Taction 
politique,  bien  loin  d'aboutir  a  une  diminution  de   la  pensee 
socialiste,  a  conduit  la    classe   ouvri^re,  ses   militants   et  ses 
61us,   a   des    conceptions   toujours    plus    rigoureuses,    a    des 
affirmations  toujours  plus  nettes.     De  meme  que  les  organisa- 
tions   ouvri^res    regardent    forcement    au    dela    de     Taction 
^conomique,  les  syndiqu^s  au  dela  des  syndicats,  les  coop^ra- 
teurs   au   dela  des»  cooperatives,  le  parti   socialiste,   politique- 
ment  organist,  regarde  au  dela  de  Taction  61ectorale,  au  dela 
du    Parlement,   au   dela   des   programmes   imm6diats   et    des 
r6formes  partielles  ;  c'est  vers  la  pleine  et  haute  id6e  de  la 
communaute   sociale,  c'est   vers  une   forme  de  propri6t6  qui 
assure  a  tous  les  travailleurs  le  maximum  de  liberty  et  de  vie 
que  comporte  le  monde  naturel  transforme  par  la  science,  que 
se  tournent  tous  ses   efforts.     Tous   les    militants,   tous    les 
salaries,  tous  les  repr6sentants  socialistes  ont  la  meme  doctrine 
et  le  meme  id^al.     Tous  ils  reconnaissent  que  T^tat  present  de 
la  propri6t6  entraine  un  antagonisme  de  classe  inevitable  et 
irreductible.     Tous   ils   proclament   que  la  lutte  de  la   classe 
poss6dante  et  de  la  classe  d^poss^d^e  ne  peut  prendre  fin  par 
le   seul   bon  vouloir   des   privil^gi^s  ou  par   des  transactions 
incertaines,   mais  que  les    salaries    doivent    s'organiser   pour 
transformer  la  propriety  et  abolir  le  regime  des  classes.     Tous 
ils  savent  que  les  moyens  de  production  et  d'6change  doivent 
cesser  d'etre  la  propri6t6  de  la  classe  capitaliste,  pour  devenir  la 
propriety  inalienable  des  producteurs.    Tous  enfin  ils  affirmant 
qu'au-dessus  des  competitions    de    peuples   et    de  races,  au- 
dessus  des  rivalit6s  et  des  haines  pseudo-nationales  qui  sent 
une   combinaison  de   Tantique    combativit6   animale    et    des 
rivalit^s  cconomiques  nouvelles,  de  la  barbarie  primitive  et  de  la 


LE   SOCIALISME   FRANC^AIS.  1 27 

barbaric  capitaliste,  le  prol6tariat  de  tous  les  pays  doit  s'unir.  Par 
la,  par  ce  systfeme  d'idees,  le  socialisme  frangais  se  rattache  au 
socialisme  international  et  il  participe  a  sa  force  g6n6rale  et  a 
son  mouvement  d'ensemble.  Et  en  meme  temps,  par  la  nettet6 
de  ces  conceptions  g6n6rales,  il  a  des  chances  de  vaincre  qu'en 
aucun  temps  il  ne  connut.  D6s  son  avfenement  au  pouvoir,  il 
ne  d61ib6rera  pas,  il  agira.  D'embl6e,  et  pour  cr6er  soudain 
de  rirr6vocable,  de  Tirriparable,  le  socialisme  appellera  a  la 
propri6t6,  par  Tinterm^diaire  de  la  nation,  de  la  commune 
et  des  syndicats,  tous  les  producteurs,  tous  les  travailleurs. 
A  coup  siir,  Tadaptation  des  formules  generates  a  la 
diversite  presque  infinie  des  conditions,  aux  formes  varices 
de  la  production  plus  ou  moins  parcellaire  ou  concentr6e, 
exigera  un  immense  et  magnifique  effort  de  pens6e, 
de  travail  et  de  courage.  Mais  du  moins,  cet  effort  d'accom- 
modation,  le  socialisme  ne  sera  pas  oblige  de  I'accomplir  sous 
la  menace  de  Tennemi.  Du  coup,  il  aura  occupy  toutes  les 
positions  dominantes,  bris6  la  puissance  capitaliste,  et  si  graves 
que  soient  les  difficult6s  a  r^soudre,  ce  seront  des  difficult6s  de 
detail,  des  difficultes  secondaires.  Jamais  depuis  un  sifecle,  ni 
avec  Babeuf  et  la  conjuration  des  Egaux,  ni  en  1848,  ni  en 
1 87 1,  le  socialisme  fran9ais  n'eut  en  mains  d'aussi  puissants 
moyens  d'action  et  tant  de  chances  de  vaincre. 

Certes,  ce  n'est  ni  I'audace,  ni  la  nettet6  de  pens6e  qui 
manquaient  a  Babeuf  et  a  ses  amis.  On  ne  peut  lire  sans 
admiration  ce  qui  nous  reste  de  Buonarotti.  Et  les  ^16ments 
utilisables  ne  leur  faisaient  point  enti^rement  d^faut.  II  y  avait 
un  prol6tariat  industriel  naissant  et  les  travailleurs  du  sol, 
frustr6s  par  la  grande  speculation  et  Taviditc  bourgeoise  de  leur 
part  des  biens  nationaux,  auraient  pu  etre  entrain6s  dans  un 
mouvement.  Rien  n'est  saisissant  d'ailleurs  comme  le  destin 
de  la  bourgeoisie  r6volutionnaire.  En  m^me  temps  qu'elle 
luttait  contre  les  puissances  du  pass6,  contre  I'absolutisme 
monarchique,  le  privilege  ftodal  et  la  r6glementation  6cono- 
mique,  elle  eut  a  compter  dfes  le  premier  jour  avec  les  puissances 
de  I'avenir,  avec  la  classe  prol6tarienne.  C'est  par  les  classes 
aisles,  c'est  par  la  bourgeoisie  et  pour  elle  que  fut  entreprise 
la  Revolution  :  comme  le  constate  Rivarol,  la  Revolution  a 
<;te  faite  par  "  les  rentiers/'     Seule,  en  effet,  la  bourgeoisie  etait 


128  COSMOPOLIS. 

capable  d'en  tirer  un  profit  imm6diat  et  durable.  Et  pourtant, 
par  un  6clatant  paradoxe  dont  les  historiens  n'ont  pas  encore 
pleinement  donn6  le  secret,  cette  R6volution,  commenc6e  par 
les  riches  de  la  bourgeoisie  et  pour  eux,  se  tourne  rapidement 
contre  eux.  La  bourgeoisie  ne  peut  difendre  la  Revolution — sa 
Revolution — qu'en  faisant  appel  a  ce  peuple  d^pouilie  qui 
voudra  la  remplacer  demain.  Taine  n'a  d6crit,  malgr^  tout  son 
appareil  dialectique,  que  le  m^canisme  ext^rieur  de  ce  mouve- 
ment,  et  Thistoire  de  la  Revolution  ne  sera  pas  faite  tant 
qu'on  n'en  aura  pas  demele  avec  precision  le  ressort  interne, 
les  causes  6conomiques  profondes.  II  y  a  comme  un  drame 
dans  le  drame ;  et  la  Revolution  bourgeoise,  en  plein  combat, 
sent  tressaillir  en  elle  une  Revolution  proietarienne.  Chaumette, 
au  nom  de  la  Commune,  d'accord  en  ce  moment  avec  la 
Convention,  annonce  en  1794,  I'expropriation  generale  des 
grands  industriels  et  marchands  et  la  mise  en  mouveraent  de 
toutes  les  forces  de  production  et  d'echange  par  la  nation. 

Dans  une  perpetuelle  et  violente  contradiction,  la  bourgeoisie, 
triomphante  et  menacee,  tantot  dechaine  pour  se  defendre  les 
salaries,  et  tantot  les  excommunie  ct  les  frappe.  La  bour- 
geoisie se  sauvant  de  la  contre-Revolution  au  moyen  de  ce 
peuple  ouvrier  qu'elle  suspecte  des  la  premiere  heure  et  que 
demain  elle  foulera,  prelude,  par  une  sorte  de  parasitisme 
revolutionnaire,  au  grand  parasitisme  capitaliste  du  dix- 
neuvieme  siede;  et  elle  exploite  les  "journees"  de  Revolution 
comme  elle  exploitera  plus  tard  les  journees  de  travail. 
Oui,  Babeuf  etait  excusable  de  demander  enfin  le  benefice  de 
la  Revolution  fran9aise  pour  la  classe  qui  aux  jours  du  supreme 
peril  en  avait  ete  la  force  et  le  nerf.  Mais  il  6tait  trop  tard  et 
trop  tot.  Trop  tard,  car  la  Revolution  epuisee  ne  pouvait 
suffire  a  une  nouvelle  transformation.  Trop  tot,  car  le  pro- 
letariat, quelle  qu'eut  ete  son  action  revolutionnaire,  n'etait 
encore  qu'a  Tetat  rudimentaire  et  chaotique  :  il  fallait  attendre 
un  bien  plus  large  developpement  du  capitalisme,  de  la  grande 
industrie  mecanique  ou  anonyme  :  les  conditions  economiques 
du  socialisme  n'etaient  point  encore  realisees,  et  la  conjuration 
de  Babeuf  ne  pouvait  etre  qu'un  spasme. 

En  1848,  deux  causes  decisives  ont  determine  I'echec  du 
socialisme  fran9ais.     La  Revolution  de  Fevrier,  plus  democra- 


LE   SOCIALISME    FRANVAIS.  1 29 

tique  et  petite-bourgeoise  qu'ouvrifere,  surprit  le  socialisme  en 
pleine  discussion  et  61aboration.  Les  travailleurs,  tiraill6s  entre 
Cabet,  Louis  Blanc,  Proudhon  et  les  restes  du  Saint-Simonisme, 
n'6taient  pas  arriv6s  a  une  suffisante  unit6  de  doctrine  et  c'est 
de  TunitS-  de  pens6e  seule  que  peut  sortir  Taction  decisive.    A 
I'heure  ou  il  eut  du  agir  et  transformer  la  propri6t6,  le  prol6- 
tariat  d61ib6rait.     R6unis  au  Luxembourg,  dans  ce  que  Louis 
Blanc  appella    le  Parlement  du  Travail  et  qui  n'en  itait  que 
I'Acad^mie  impuissante,  les  d616gu6s  ouvriers  entendaient  le  10 
mars,  a  hi  stance  d'ouverture,  ces  paroles  de  Louis  Blanc  :  "  Si 
la  socictc  est  mal  faite,  refaites-la  !  abolissez  I'esclavage  !  Mais, 
encore   une   fois,    rien    de   plus   difficile,  rien    qui    exige   des 
meditations  plus  profondes,  une  prudence  plus  attentive.     La 
precipitation  ici  pourrait  etre  mortelle,  et,  pour  aborder  de  tels 
problfemes,  ce  n'est  pas  trop  de  la  reunion  de  tous  les  efforts, 
de  toutes  les  lumiferes,  de  toutes  les  bonnes  volont^s."     H^las  ! 
non.    Ce  n'est  pas  la  precipitation  ici  qui  devait  ^tre  mortelle  ; 
mais  au  contraire  cette  paralysante  recherche.     Certes,  ce  n'est 
pas  la  fantaisie  ou  m^me  le  g6nie  d'un  seul  cerveau  qui  peut 
rfeoudre  I'immense  problfeme  social  et  la  recherche  de  tous, 
I'effort  coordonn6  de  tous,  j'entends  de  tous  les  exploites,  y  est 
necessaire.     Mais  c'6tait  un  grand  malheur  que  cette  oeuvre  de 
preparation  et  d'unification  ne  fut   pas  accomplie  a  Theure 
ou  la  Revolution  de  F^vrier  ^clatait.     Car,  pendant  que  le  pro- 
letariat d61iberait  ou  attendait  un  signal,  la  contre-R6volution, 
qui,  elle,  avait  sa  formule,  s'organisait  pour  la  resistance  et  la 
repression.     Cetait  un  grand  malheur  aussi  que  le  socialisme 
parut  etre  au  pouvoir  sans  y  etre.     II  avait  une  part  de  delega- 
tion   dans    ce   gouvernement    provisoire   ou  dominaient    les 
conceptions   bourgeoises  ;   par    ce   semblant   de  puissance   le 
socialisme  surexcitait  les  craintes  capitalistes  et  il  n'avait  point 
/a  force  en  eflfet  d'abolir  le  capitalisme.     Et  quel  plus  facheux 
destin  que  d'eflrayer  les  grandes  forces  sociales  sans  etre  en 
eflfet  en  6tat  de  les  dompter  1     Je  prie  qu'on  ne  voie  pas  dans 
ces  lignes  rapides  meme   Tombre   d'un   reproche  contre  les 
socialistes  de  F6vrier,  meme  I'essai  d'un  jugementsur  la  Repu- 
t>lique  de   1848   et  son  ceuvre  qui   reste  grande.     J'explique 
^eulement  pourquoi,  malgre  I'apparente  faveur  des  evfenements, 
^e  socialisme  frangais  ne  pouvait  alors  aboutir.     Et  j'en  retiens 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXV.  9 


130  COSMOPOLIS. 

surtout  cette  conclusion,  c'est  que  le  socialisme  ne  peut  accepter 
une  parcellc  du  pouvoir  :  il  faut  qu*il  attende  le  pouvoir  tout 
entier.  Nous  pouvons  collaborer  a  des  r6formes  partielles, 
et  nous  y  collaborons  en  effet,  mais  un  parti  qui  se 
propose  la  r6forme  totale  de  la  soci6t6,  la  substitution  d'un 
principe  de  propriety  et  de  vie  a  un  autre  principe, 
ne  peut  accepter  que  rint6grit6  du  pouvoir.  S*il  en  a 
seulement  une  part,  il  n'a  rien  :  car  cette  influence  partielle 
est  neutralis6e  par  les  principes  dominants  de  la  soci6t6 
pr6sente.  Les  grands  interets  ennemis  prennent  peur  sans 
qu'on  les  puisse  frapper  ;  Tid^al  nouveau  n'est  point  r^alis^, 
mais  compromis,et  il  y  a  une  crise  capitaliste  dont  le  socialisme 
ne  sort  pas. 

En  1 871,  c'est  de  causes  multiples  et  confuses  que  sortit 
riitro'ique  mouvement  prol^tarien  ;  et  de  plus,  surgissant  en 
pleine  d6faite  de  la  patrie,  alors  que  T^nergie  nationale  diminu6e 
faisait  la  partie  belle  a  la  reaction,  s6parte  de  la  France  qui 
(Itait  avant  tout  affam6e  de  paix,  la  Commune  devait  succomber. 
Mais  du  moins,  en  obligeant  la  monarchic  a  reculer  "  en 
sauvant  la  R6publique,"  comme  Challemel-Lacour  r6crivait  a 
Gambetta,  elle  donnait  a  la  classe  ouvrifere  une  cr6ance  de  plus 
sur  la  R6publique,  et  la  tradition  socialiste  6tait  maintenue, 
mel6e  a  tous  les  grands  evfenements.  Aujourd'hui,  si  je  ne 
me  trompe,  si  je  ne  cede  pas  aux  illusions  de  I'esprit 
de  systeme  ou  a  I'entrainement  du  combat,  le  socialisme 
fran^ais  est  assur<^%  par  le  mouvement  naturel  des  choses, 
de  la  victoire.  C'est  la  question  sociale  elle-meme  qui 
est  pos6e,  nettement,  distinctement.  II  ne  s'agit  pas  de  savoir 
si  nous  aurons  la  r6publique  ou  la  monarchic  :  la  forme  r6pu- 
blicaine  existe ;  et  elle  est  d'autant  plus  indiscutc^e  que  les  grands 
int6rets  capitalistes  esperent  la  tourner  a  leur  usage.  A  coup 
sur,  dans  le  mouvement  qui  emportera  la  soci6te  vieillie  il 
cntrera  d'autres  forces  que  les  forces  purement  socialistes.  11 
se  peut  que  le  peuple  ait  a  d^fendre  la  patrie  elle-meme  des 
humiliations  que  lui  manage  la  reaction  europeenne,  011  nos 
gouvernements  ont  pris  place.  11  se  peut  aussi  qu'il  ait  a 
dcfendre  le  suffrage  universel  contre  destentatives  d'amoindrisse- 
ment,  sinon  de  mutilation.  II  se  peut  enfin  que  les  exces  de 
speculation  et  lesscandales  de  tout  ordre  qui  6closent  n6cessaire- 


LE  SOCIALISME   FRAN^AIS.  13I 

ment    du    capitalisme,  revoltent     la     probit6    bourgeoise,   la 
conscience  des  classes  moyennes.     Et  toutes  ces  forces  contri- 
bueront  au  mouvement  socialiste.     Mais  il  n'y  aura  ni  incerti- 
tude, ni  confusion  :  car  c'est  I'id^e  socialiste  qui  dominera, 
distincte  et  haute,  tout  le  mouvement.    C'est  au  socialisme  que 
se    rallieront    tous  ceux   qui  veulent    la    verity    du   suffrage 
universel  :  car  c'est  pour  combattre  le  socialisme  que  les  puis- 
sances   riactionnaires    essaieront     de     toucher    au    suffrage 
universel ;  et  il  ne  sera  d'ailleurs  affranchi  de  toute  entrave  que 
quand  I'oligarchie  des  grands  poss6dants  ne  pourra   peser   sur 
lui.    C'est  au  socialisme  que  se  rallieront  tous  ceux  qui  veulent 
maintenir  la  fiert6  de  la  patrie  rdpublicaine :  car  c'est  I'inspi- 
ration  croissante  du  capitalisme  qui  a  conduit  la  R6publique 
fran9aise  dans  les  affaires  d'Orient,  dans  toutes  les  affaires  du 
monde,  au  systfeme  g6n6ral  de  la  r6action  europtenne.  Et  on  ne 
pourra  relever  la  patrie,  releverl' Europe,  qu'en  abaissant  le  capi- 
talisme.   C'est  done  sous  la  direction  du  socialisme,  c'est  en  lui 
et  pour  lui  que  lutteront  toutes  les  forces  nationales  et  r6pu- 
blicaines.     Elles  ajouteront  a  I'Snergie  et  a  I'efficacit^  de  I'id^e 
socialiste,  sans  alt6rer  ou  voiler  en  rien  son  caractfere  propre. 
C'est  bien  de  la  transformation  de  la  propri6t6  capitaliste  en 
propri6t6  sociale  qu'il  s'agira  ouvertement  et  avant  tout ;    et  le 
socialisme    sera   grossi   par   bien   des   affluents  sans  en  6tre 
troubI6. 

Je  me  suis  risque  a  dire  a  la  Chambre  fran^aise  que  nous 

pjouvions  pr6voir  le  triomphe  du  socialisme  en  France  dans  une 

cdizaine  d'anntes.     Je  sais  combien  il  est  t6m6raire,  combien 

x-neme   il   pent   ^tre   ridicule  de    s'aventurer   en   de   pareilles 

;t^roph6ties.     L'histoire  a  des  complexit6s  redoutables  et  elle  se 

j  one  des  pr6visions  math^matiques.      Ce  n'est  pourtant   pas 

^i^nsdes  raisons  que  jecrois  s6rieuses,  que  j'ai  risqu6  cette  date. 

D'abord,  ce  d61ai  nous  est  n6cessaire  encore  pour  amener  a 

»toiis  la  partie  pensante  des  classes  moyennes.     D6ja  le  mouve- 

^^>ent  se   dessine  et  deux   causes   le   doivent   acc61erer.     En 

TPremier  lieu,  elles  comprennent  de  mieux  en  mieux  que  le 

socialisme,  bien  loin  d'opprimer  les  individus,  sera  la  liberations 

^'exaltation  de  toutes  les  forces  individuelles.     II  faut  avoir  la 

vue  bien  courte  pour  s'imaginer  que  la  propriety  sociale,  la 

communaut6  des  moyens  de  production  sera  la  negation  de§ 


132  COSMOPOLIS. 

individus.     Les  formules  de  la  philosophie  de  Hegel  ont  pu 
disparaitre  :  Tesprit  vivant  en  est  rest6  et  il  apparait  a  tous  que 
la   r6alit6  sait  concilier    les  pr6tendues  contradictions  ou  se 
d6bat  la    logique    abstraite.     D6ja,  dans   Tordre  politique,  la 
souverainet6   nation^le,bien   loin   d'exclure   les  libert6s  indi- 
viduelles,  les    supporte   et    les    d6veloppe.     Si   la   nation    est 
vraiment   souveraine,  il  y   a   pour   les   individus,   pour   tous 
les   individus,  libert6   du    vote,  liberty   de    la    pens6e,  liberty 
de  la    conscience,   liberty    de    la    presse,  liberty   de   reunion 
et   d'association .     La   ou    une   de    ces    libert^s   individuelles 
manque,  c'est  que  la  souverainet^  nationale   est   entamte    et 
qu'une  oligarchic,  bourgeoisie  ou  Eglise,  se  substitue  partielle- 
ment  a  la  nation.  Gambetta  disait  a  Belleville,  en  1869  :  "La 
democratic   radicale   part   de  la  souverainet6   nationale   pour 
affirmer  la  souverainet6  des  individus."     On  pourrait  dire  de 
meme    que    la    democratic    socialiste    fonde,     dans     Tordre 
6conomique,  le  droit  national  pour  fonder   le  droit  individueL 
La  nation  ne  sera   vraiment  propri6taire  que  si  chacun  des 
citoyens  peut  revendiquer  et  exercer  son  droit  de  copropri6t6 
sans  autre  limite  et   sans  autre    gene  que  le  droit  6gal  des 
autres.     II  n'y  aura  pas  suppression  du  regime  des  contrats  ou 
s'inscrivent  les  volont6s,  les  libert6s  individuelles.     II  y  aura  au 
contraire    enrichissement  et    ennoblissement   du   regime    des 
contrats.     Aujourd'hui,  entre  la   classe   salari6e   et   la   classe 
capitaliste,  il  n'y  a  que  des  simili-contrats,  car  ceux  qui  n'ont 
point  la  propriety  ne  sont  que  n6ant,  et  la  ou  il  n'y  a  pas 
rapport  d'un  droit  a  un  droit,  il  n'y  a  pas  contrat.     Dans  Tordre 
social,  tous  les  producteurs  contracteront  avec  la  nation,  avec 
la  commune,  avec  le  groupement  imm6diat  ou  ils  auront  pris 
place  ;  ils  stipuleront  les  conditions  d6finies  sous  lesquelles  se 
doit  exercer  leur  activity  ;  et  dans  ces  contrats  multiples,  au 
lieu   de    n'apporter    comme    les    salaries    d'aujourd'hui    que 
n6ant     et    servitude,     ils     apporteront    la    force    d'un    droit 
positif  et  defini,  leur  droit   pr6alable  de  copropri6t6.     Pour 
la  premiere  fois,  depuis   que  le   contrat  est  apparu  dans  la 
civilisation   humaine,   il    ne    sera    pas    un    mensonge  et    le 
d6guisement   vari6   de   la  force.     II   sera  I'expression  loyale, 
sous  la  garantie  de  tous,  de  I'activite  et  de  la  liberty  de  tous. 
Jamais  I'individu  humain  n'aura  6te  a  ce  point  soustrait  a  toute 


LE   SOCIALISME    FRAN^AIS.  1 33 

tyrannic,  a  toute  limitation  arbitraire.  Communaute  et  indi- 
viduality, communisme  et  individualisme  s'appellent,  s'impli- 
quent  et  se  fondent  r6ciproquement.  Cela  est  si  vrai  que  dans 
les  discussions  th6oriques  auxquelles  donne  lieu  le  socialisme, 
tantot  on  lui  reproche  (c'est  le  theme  le  plus  banal)  de  sacrifier 
I'individu  k  la  communaut6,  tantot,  comme  r6cemment  devant 
TuniversitS  de  Paris,  on  lui  reproche  de  lib^rer  a  outrance  et 
de  d6chainer  Tindividu  en  brisant  tous  les  cadres  traditionnels, 
toutes  les  hierarchies  traditionnelles  qui  le  maintiennent.  Ce 
double  reproche  est  un  double  t6moignage  :  et  la  partie  des 
classes  moyennes  qui  n'a  pas  un  int6ret  direct  dans  I'ordre 
capitaliste,  mais  qui,  par  la  haute  culture  de  Tesprit  a  un 
absolu  besoin  de  vie  individuelle,  a  le  sentiment  tous  les 
jours  plus  net  que  le  socialisme  seul  assurera,  en  les  har- 
monisant,  toutes  les  libertfe.  Et  certes,  la  contrainte  tous 
les  jours  plus  dure  qui  pfese  sur  les  esprits  dans  Tuniversite, 
dans  les  fonctions  publiques  ou  lib6rales,  partout  ou  la  bour- 
geoisie pauvre  est  a  la  merci  du  Pouvoir  ou  de  TArgent, 
tourne  peu  a  peu  vers  un  regime  social  nouveau  les  classes 
moyennes.  EUes  fourniront  ainsi  au  mouvement  prol6tarien 
et  a  la  production  sociale  les  ing^nieurs,  les  chimistes,  les 
professeurs,  les  instituteurs,  les  savants,  les  artistes  dont  le 
monde  nouveau  a  besoin.  Elles  ne  lui  fourniront  ni  des 
chefs,  ni,  comme  on  le  dit  parfois  par  un  reste  d'infatuation 
bourgeoise,  des  cadres.  Mais  au  contraire  cette  elite  bourgeoise, 
elite  du  savoir  et  de  la  pens^e,  trouvera  son  cadre  dans  la 
Republique  prol^tarienne,  son  emploi  dans  I'ordre  socialiste. 
Je  le  repete  :  Ce  mouvement  naissant  et  d6ja  en  quelques 
points  trfes  vif,  a  besoin  de  quelques  annees  encore  pour 
produire  tous  ses  effets. 

De  meme,  c'est  dans  quelques  annees  seulement  que  le 
socialisme  paysan,  qui  commence  a  percer  et  a  pointer  en  bien 
des  r6gions  de  la  France,  arrivera  a  maturity.  Pour  cela  nous 
pouvons  compter  d6s  maintenant  sur  la  collaboration  de  nos 
adversaires.  Afin  de  combattre  le  socialisme  dans  les  campagnes, 
ils  veulent  agir  sur  les  cultivateurs  et  les  grouper.  De  tous  les 
c6t6s,  du  c6t6  gouvernemental,  du  c6t6  catholique,  c'est  le  meme 
mot  d'ordre  :  association  des  paysans.  11  n'est  question  que 
de  syndicats  agricoles  pours  I'achat  en  commun  des  engrais,  des 


134  COSMOPOLIS. 

semences  ou  meme  des  machines  couteuses,  de  caisses  rurales, 
de  credit  mutuel.  A  coup  sur,  c'est  pour  empecher  les  paysans 
de  s'6garer  dans  les  voies  socialistes,  c'est  pour  maintenir  parmi 
eux  Tinfluence  de  la  grande  propri6t6  ou  celle  de  TEglise 
que  les  adversaires  du  socialisme  organisent,  propagent  et 
f6dferent  ces  associations  agricoles.  Mais  en  faisant  p6n6trer 
ainsi  eux-memes  I'esprit  d'association  dans  le  monde  rural 
jusqu'ici  6troitement  individualiste,  nos  adversaires  m6nagent 
une  transition  et  pr6parent  une  soudure  entre  le  collectivisme 
ou  communisme  des  ouvriers  et  I'individualisme  des  paysans. 
Ceux-ci,  habitues  par  les  dirigeants  aux  abois  a  Taction  collec- 
tive, ne  tarderont  pas  a  s'en  servir  pour  eux-memes,  et  sous  les 
premieres  associations  agricoles  d'origine  aristocratique  ou 
cl6ricale,  ne  tarderont  pas  un  peu  partout,  comme  d6ja  en  plus 
d'un  point,  k  percer  les  vraies  associations  de  paysans,  celles  des 
prol6taires  du  sol  et  des  petits  propri6taires.  De  meme  qu'il 
nous  eut  6t6  malais6  d'atteindre  par  notre  propagande  et  notre 
action  les  ouvriers  industriels  s'ils  n'avaient  €t&  group^s  par  le 
capitalisme  lui-meme,  il  nous  serait  malais6  de  pen6trer 
d'embl6e  jusqu'au  fond  des  populations  rurales  si  elles  n'6taient 
remu6es  aussi  par  les  privil6gi6s  eux-memes.  Et  comme 
ceux-ci  n'ont  songe  a  ces  associations  rurales  que  pour 
arracher  les  paysans  aux  influences  "  desorganisatrices,"  c'est 
encore  le  socialisme  qui  provoque  dans  le  monde  rural,  par 
contre-coup,  ce  mouvement  d'association  dont  il  bcneficiera. 
Dil'ja  les  ouvriers  des  Cercles  catholiques  inquictent  par 
I'esprit  de  classe  qui  s'eveille  en  eux  leurs  pieux  et  imprudents 
patrons  de  la  premifere  heure.  De  meme,  les  paysans  groupts 
cchapperont  bien  vite  aux  oligarchies  qui  prennent  Tinitiative 
du  groupement.  Ainsi,  par  une  premiere  revanche  des  prole- 
taires,  qui  si  longtemps  travaillerent  pour  d'autres,  le  socialisme 
oblige  aujourd'hui  tous  ses  adversaires  a  travailler  pour  lui, 
II  est  si  bien  la  force  dominante,  le  centre  irresistible 
d'attraction,  que  tout  ce  qui  se  meut  tend  vers  lui.  Et  plus 
on  agite,  meme  contre  lui,  les  elements  sociaux,  plus  surement 
il  les  attire  et  les  ordonne  selon  sa  loi.  Je  crois  qu'en  dix 
ann6es  de  propagande  dans  le  monde  rural  d6ja  6branl6  par  la 
mis6re,  r6volte  contre  la  speculation,  contre  I'impot,  contre 
Tegoisme   des    grands   dirigeants,    prepare   en    outre   par    les 


LE   SOCIALISME   P^RAN^AIS.  1 35 

syndicats  et  groupements  de  tout  ordre  a  une  coinpr6hension 
plus  large  de  la  vie,  le  socialisme  aura  accompli  des  progrfes 
d6cisifs. 

Enfin,  nous  avons  a  compter  avec  un  obstacle  redoutable 
et  que  nos  progres  memes  ont  susciti.  Pour  la  premiere  fois 
depuis  vingt-cinq  ans  la  bourgeoisie  gouvernementale  et  I'Eglise 
sont  d'accord.  On  sait  de  reste  que  de  1876  jusqu'a  la 
legislature  presente  le  parti  r6publicain  gouvernemental  avait 
combattu  TEglise.  Et  I'Eglise  semblait  se  mouvoir  en  dehors 
de  la  R6publique.  Devant  le  p6ril  socialiste  les  fils  bien  rentes 
de  Voltaire  et  les  fils  des  crois6s  se  sont  reconcilies,  et  le 
socialisme  rencontrera  devant  lui  la  coalition,  assurement 
formidable,  du  gouvernement,  de  Tadministration,  de  la  Banque, 
de  la  haute  bourgeoisie,  de  la  grande  propri6te  et  de  TEglise. 
11  se  pent  que  cette  coalition  ait  pour  effet  imm6diat  d'arreter 
ou  tout  au  moins  de  r6duire  la  croissance  apparente,  les  progrfes 
visibles  du  socialisme  en  France.  Et  il  sera  sans  doute  besoin 
de  deux  ou  trois  legislatures,  de  deux  ou  trois  grandes  luttes 
clectorales  poiu*  la  discrediter  et  I'user  a  fond.  Mais  ce  discredit 
est  certain.  11  sera  double  et  rcciproque.  L'Eglise  compro- 
mettra  la  bourgeoisie  et  se  compromettra  avec  elle.  Le 
clericalisme,  devenu  exigeant  en  raison  de  ses  services  meme, 
se  rendra  odieux  et  rendra  odieuse  avec  lui  cette  puissance 
bourgeoise  qui  pour  sauver  un  privilege  de  propriete  aura 
livr6,  autant  qu'il  depend  d'elle,  I'esprit  humain.  Et  en  meme 
temps,  I'Eglise  perdra,  par  sa  complicity  avou^e  avec  le 
capitalisme,  tout  ce  qui  restait  en  elle  d'idcalismc  evangcliquc  ct 
de  force  populaire.  Sans  doule,  quand  die  y  prcndra  i^ardc, 
quand  elle  verra  qu'elle  s'est  cumpromisc  pour  la  bourgeoisie 
sans  la  Siiuver,  elle  essaiera  un  mouvemenl  nuuveau  de  railie- 
ment ;  et  comme  elle  abandunne  aujourd'hui  la  monarchie 
pour  se  rallier  a  la  R6publique  bourgeoise,  elle  tentera  d'aban- 
donner  celle-ci  pour  chercher  aupr^s  du  proletariat  grandis- 
sant  de  nouveaux  destins.  Trop  tard  assurement,  et  en  tout 
cas  la  force  de  resistance  du  vieux  monde  sera  decid^ment 
d6sorganisee  et  vaincue.  Des  lors  la  voie  sera  entiferement  libre 
et  le  champ  grand  ouverl  au  socialisme  dans  notre  pays. 

Jean  Jaurks. 


DUC  DE  RICHELIEU/ 


LKTTRES  SUK    L'lTALlE. 

Le  due  de  Richelieu  6tait  revenu  d'Aix-la-Chapelle  a  la  fin 
du  mois  de  novembre  1818,  apr^s  avoir  accompli  la  plus 
grande  oeuvre  de  sa  carrifere  politique,  aprfes  avoir  obtenu  des 
souverains  allies  le  retrait  des  troupes  ^trangferes  du  territoire 
fran^ais. 

A  peine  revenu  a  Paris,  le  premier  ministre  demanda  au  roi 
I'autorisation  de  rentrer  dans  la  vie  priv^e,  consid^rant  qu'il 
avait  termini  la  mission  pour  Taccomplissement  de  laquelle  il 
avait  6t6  choisi  comme  president  du  Conseil  en  181 5;  mais 
Louis  XVI 11  avait  insists  pour  qu'il  renonipat  momentan6ment 
a  ses  projets  de  retraite,  et  le  due  s'6tait  d6cid6  a  rester  a 
son  poste. 

Cependant,  dfes  le  mois  suivant,  la  Chambre  des  d^put^s 
ayant  mis  le  minist6re  en  6chec,  a  propos  de  la  nouvelle  loi 
clectorale,  M.  de  Richelieu  apporta  sa  demission  au  roi  qui, 
cctte  fois,  I'accepta. 

Les  soucis  et  les  fatigues  du  pouvoir  avaient  6branl6  la 
sante  de  I'ancien  plenipotentiaire  de  France  a  Aix-la-Chapelle  ; 
il  se  retira  le  4  Janvier  1819  au  chateau  do  Courteille,  ou  il 
rejoignit  sa  femme  et  sa  belle-mere.  L'illustre  homme  d'Etat 
trouva  dans  cette  paisible  demeure  le  repos  dont  il  avait  besoin 
et,  le  20  du  m^me  mois,  se  sentant  remis  de  tant  d'6motions 
diverses,  il  partit  pour  le  Midi,  visita  Bordeaux,  Toulouse, 
Marseille.  Le  14  f6vrier,  il  ^crivait  de  la  premiere  de  ces  villes, 
a  son  neveu,  le  comte  de   Rochechouart  :    "  Mon   parti   est 

*  Voir  Cos.Moi'DLis  de  mars  et  avril  1897  :  ''  Les  Conferences  d'Aix-hi-Chapelle, 
(I'apres  la  correspoiulanee  inedite  du  due  de  Richelieu. " 


Due  DE   RICHELIEU.  1 37 

decide    pour    la    donation,  *  je   Tabandonne    a    la    ville    de 

Bordeaux  pour  batir  un  hopital,  le  sien  est  affreux 

Je  desire  que  ma  donation  fasse  le  moins  de  bruit  possible  ; 
n'en  parlez  done  pas/'  Puis,  de  Marseille,  le  voyageur  adresse 
au  cardinal  de  Bausset,  son  ami,  des  reflexions  que  lui  inspire 
tout  ce  qui  6veille  sa  curiosity. 

Louis-Francois,  due  de  Bausset-Roquefort,  (1748-1824)  qu'il 
ne  faut  pas  confondre  avec  son  cousin  Pierre- Francois-Gabriel- 
Raymond  de  Bausset-Roquefort  (1757-1829),  archeveque  d'Aix 
et  pair  de  France,  avait  6t6  6veque  d'Alais  d^s  Tannic  1784. 
Rentr6  d'6migration  pendant  le  Consulat,  il  devint  chanoine 
de  Saint-Denis  en  1806,  et  c'est  vers  cette  ^poque  qu'il  avait 
6crit  la  vie  de  I'illustre  archeveque  de  Cambrai.  Plus  tard, 
en  1814,  il  fit  paraitre  Thistoire  de  Bossuet.  La  Restauration 
appela  le  savant  pr61at  a  la  Chambre  des  pairs  en  1815; 
rAcad6mie  francaise  lui  ouvrit  ses  portes  Tannee  suivante,  et  il 
re^ut  le  chapeau  de  cardinal  en  18 17.  Enfin,  le  roi  le  crea 
due  en  1821,  puis  commandeur  de  ses  ordres  et  lui  confera  la 
dignity  de  ministre  d'Etat.t 

Tel  6tait  celui  auquel  le  fondateur  d'Odessa  ecrivit  ses  Icttres 
les  plus  intimes  pendant  ce  voyage,  au  cours  de  ces  excursions, 
oil  il  6prouve  le  charme  qu'a  toutes  les  epoques  de  sa  vie 
il  a  ressenti  a  observer  les  pays  et  les  populations  au  milieu 
desquels  il  n'avait  pas  coutume  de  vivre.  Ces  distractions 
n'ont  cependant  pas  le  pouvoir  de  lui  faire  perdrc  de 
vue  les  mences  r^volutionnaires  qui  menacent  toujours 
I'Europe  monarchique,  ni  la  direction  donnee  aux 
affaires  par  le  minist^re  Decazes-DessoUes.  La  cr^ition 
d'une  fournce  de  nouveaux  pairs  lui  inspire,  pour 
I'iivenir,  des  craintes  qu'il  motive  avec  la  ncttetc  qui  lui 
c»t  propre. 

Cest  de  Marseille,  que  le  due  adresse  cette  premiere  lettre 
au  cardinal  de  Bausset : 

•  Li  dotatiun  d*un  million,  votee  par  les  Chainbres  au  profit  dii  due  dc 
Richelieu  a  litre  de  recompense  nationale,  fut  en  effet  employee  a  construire 
un  hospice  a  Bordeaux,  ville  natale  de  M.  de  Richelieu. 

t  C'etait  chez  le  cardinal  de  Bausset  que  se  reunissaient  habituellement  les 
pairs  dc  la  droite  et  du  centre  droit  ;  ces  conciliabules  etaient  appeles  reunion 
^tirdiiiiflici'.  Cest  enfin  ce  prelat  qui  devail,  trois  ans  plus  lard,  a  la  niorl  du 
^lucdc  Richelieu,  ecrire  unc  etude  bioirrapliiquc  sur  !c  liberalcur  liw  tciril<»irc. 


138  COSMOPOLIS. 

i"  mars  1819. 

MONSEIGNEUR, 

Monsieur  votre  neveu*  ma  remis  la  lettre  que  Votre 
Eminence  a  eu  la  bont6  de  m'6crire.  J'ai  6t6  bien  content  de 
faire  connaissance  avec  lui :  il  me  parait  jouir  ici  de  beaucoup 
de  consideration  ;  il  connait  bien  son  d6partement,  s'en 
occupe  beaucoup,  et  il  me  semble  que  tout  le  monde  est  content 
de  son  administration.  11  a  eu  la  bont6  de  me  mettre  au  fait 
de  tout,  et  meme  de  me  donnera  lire  des  m6moires  int6ressants 
sur  retat  de  ce  pays  tant  au  moral  qu'au  physique  :  il  est  en 
general  tres  satisfaisant.  Les  ^venements  du  moment  n'ont 
aucune  influence  sur  la  tranquillite  publique.  Le  commerce 
souffre  de  la  langueur  dont  il  est  frapp6  d'un  bout  du  monde  a 
I'autre,  mais  cependant  moins  que  bien  d'autres  points  du 
globe.  Quant  aux  campagnes,  elles  sont  dans  un  6tat  de 
prosp6rit6  qui  ne  peut  etre  compar^e  qu'a  celle  du  Languedoc  : 
deux  ann6es  de  r6colte  abondante  en  vins,  pendant  que  le  reste 
de  la  France  en  manquail,  y  a  fait  refluer  une  partie  de  I'argent 
du  royaume  et  des  sommes  immenses  de  I'elranger. 

L'observateur  le  moins  attentif  s'apercevra,  a  I'aspect  seul  des 
villages,  de  T^norme  amelioration  qu'ils  ont  eprouv6e  depuis 
trois  ans,  comme  il  ne  pourra  s'empecher  de  remarquer,  a  la 
beaute  des  chemins  et  de  tous  les  grand  travaux  publics,  les 
r6sultats  de  Texcellente  administration  des  Etatsde  Languedoc. 
Qu'importe  qu'elle  fut  en  grande  partie  entre  les  mains  des 
eveques,  si  ceux-ci  ne  se  servaient  du  grand  pouvoir  dont  ils 
jouissaient  que  pour  conduire  le  pays  a  la  plus  grande  prosperity 
possible  ?  II  me  semble  que  les  peuples  ont  plus  besoin 
d'administration  que  de  lois  organiqucs,  car  enfin  la  societc 
existe  el  nous  ne  formons  pas  un  peuple  qui  sorte  des  mains  du 
Cr6ateur.  II  y  aurait  un  bien  infini  a  faire  en  France,  si  Ton 
voulait  s'occuper  un  peu  moins  d'abstractions  et  un  peu  plus 
des  r^alites.  Ce  bien  se  ferait  tout  seul,  car  les  esprits  y  marchent 
d'eux-memes,  si  Ton  voulait  un  peu  moins  bavarder  a  Paris, 

*  Chrihtophc.  conitc  de  Villencuve-Har^'cmon,  (i  771 -1829)  avail  servi  au 
regiment  de  Koussillon  et  dans  la  irarde  constitiitionnelle  de  Louis  XVI  avant  la 
Revolution  ;  il  avait  ete  prefet  du  Lot-et-Garonne  sous  I'Kmpireetavait  remplace 
M.  de  Vaublauc  a  la  prefecture  de  Mar>eille  le  8  oclubre  1N15.  (Sun  perc  Joseph, 
marquis  de  Villeneuve-Dargemoii,  avait  cpou.se,  le  2^  mars  1770,  Franv'»ise  de 
Hausset-R<)quclorl,  si^eur  du  cardinal.i 


DUG   DE   RICHELIEU.  1 35 

et  faire  taire  parfois  la  voix  des  passions  haineuses  qui 
semblent  s'etre  empar6es  de  tous  nos  meneurs.  Personne  ne 
parait  s'occuper  d'autre  chose  que  du  triomphe  du  moment  et, 
permettez-moi  de  vous  le  dire,  avec  ma  franchise  ordinaire, 
je  n'en  excepte  pas  mcme  la  majority  de  la  Chambre  des 
pairs  qui,  pour  faire  une  niche  aux  ministres,  et  probablement 
meme  a  cause  des  menaces  dont,  fort  maladroitement,  elle 
avait  6t6  I'objet,  a  6t6  rejeter  sans  discussion  la  loi  sur  Tannic 
financi^re. 

Les  ministres,  de  leur  c6t6,  agissant  ab  irato,  ont  execute 

leur   fatale   menace,   en   bravant    tous    les    inconvenients   de 

cette   6norme   creation    de    pairs,  qui    d6considere    la    seule 

institution  aristocratique  que   nous  eussions,   institution   qu'il 

iallait  soigner  comme  la  prunelle  de  ses  yeux.     Quelle  force 

sttendent-ils  de  cette  conduite  irr6flechie,  pour  ne  rien  dire 

de  plus  ?    Je  Tignore,  mais  il  est  a  pr6sumer  que  la  premiere 

c:ons6quence  de  I'augmentation  de  la  Chambre  des  pairs  seracelle 

de     la    Chambre  des  deputes  ;   on   trouvera  quelque   moyen 

de  nous  prouver  que  la  Charte  ne  s'y  oppose  pas  et,  si  cette 

^:iugmentation   a   lieu  d'aprfes   le    mode    d'^lection    actuel;    et 

sous  rinfluence  des  pamphlets  qui  se  chargent  de  la  direction 

de   Topinion  publique,  il  est  facile  de  pr6voir  quel  en  sera  le 

r-esultat. 

A  force  de  raisonner  a  tort  et  a  travers  sur  la  liberty,  a  force 
dc  demander  des  garanties  et  des  institutions  liberalcs,  on 
it-rrivera  a  les  rendre  insupportables  et  a  forcer  la  nation  de  se 
j^^ter  une  autre  fois  entre  les  bras  d'un  despote  ;  car  il  est  bien 
<^onstant  que  cette  nation  ne  veut  que  la  tranquillitc,  la  stabilitc 
^t  point  de  revolution  !  11  me  semble  qu'ellc  se  soit  fait  un 
nialin  plaisir  de  donner  un  dt^menti  a  monsieur  le  prcSsident  du 
CI!onseil,  en  restant  parfaitement  tranquille,  au  moment  oii  il 
^i-nnon^ait,  du  haut  de  la  tribune  de  la  Chambre  des  pairs,  une 
^.^itation  toujours  croissante.  Que  cela  est  maladroit !  Que 
gnifient  enfin  les  articles  de  journaux  ou  Ton  pretend  nous 
.ire  croire  que  le  recrutement  de  la  Chambre  des  pairs  est  le 
r^ultat  de  profondes  meditations,  pour  donner  a  la  pairie  le 
complement  de  consideration  qui  lui  manquait  ? 

Qui    prctend-on  tromper  ct  a   qui    persuadera-t-oii   que    ce 
n'est  pas  uniquement   une  aiesure  de  circonstancc,  et  un  acces 


140  COSMOPOLIS. 

d'humeur  joint  a  resperance  de  se  creer  line  majority  qu'on 
avait  perdue. 

Tout  cela  fait  peine,  parce  que  Ton  ne  voit  nulle  part 
un  syst^me.  D'un  c6t6,  on  ne  voulait  que  renverser  sans 
savoir  ce  que  Ton  mettrait  a  la  place  ;  de  I'autre,  on  voulait 
conserver  le  pouvoir  sans  avoir  arrets  I'usage  qu'on  en  ferait. 
En  d6pit  de  tout  le  monde,  j'esp^re  que  la  France  reslera  tran- 
quille  parce  qu'elle  le  veut,  et,  a  moins  d'une  revolution  de 
palais  a  Paris,  qui  ferait  changer  le  pouvoir  de  main  subitement, 
nous  resterons  a  peu  pres  comme  nous  sommes,  car  on  ne 
parviendra  pas  a  agiter  le  peuple  et  a  lui  faire  prendre  parti. 
Voila  ma  croyance  et  mon  espoir  ;  car  il  faudrait  6tre  bien 
maladroit  pour  ne  pas  savoir  se  preserver  d'un  renversement 
subit  a  Paris. 

Vous  voyez,  Monseigneur,  comme  je  bavarde  de  mon  c616  ; 
j'aime  a  causer  avec  vous  en  confiance  et,  cette  lettre  allant 
par  une  occasion  sure,  je  me  suis  livr6  avec  encore  plus 
d'abandon.  Je  suis  bien  aise  que  vous  puissiez  voir  de  temps 
en  temps  ma  soeur.  C'est  une  grande  consolation  pour  elle, 
et  je  fais  des  voeux  pour  que  votre  goutte  ne  Ten  prive  pas 
longtemps. 

Je  vais  continuer  mon  voyage  auquel  je  prends  toujours 
plus  de  plaisir  ;  j'irai  devant  moi  sans  projet  fixe.  Ma 
premiere  station  de  repos  sera  Genes,  oii  j'aimerais  bien  a 
recevoir  de  vos  nouvelles  sous  le  convert  du  consul  de  France, 
qui  est  un  homme  que  j'y  ai  plac6  ;  et  il  est  gendre  de  M. 
Corvetto.  Vous  savez,  Monseigneur,  le  plaisir  qu'elles  me 
feront.  J'en  ai  aussi  beaucoup  a  vous  renouveler  Thommage 
de  mon  tendre  attachement  pour  la  vie. 

RiCHELIKr. 

Gknes,  /j  avril  jSiij. 

Monseigneur, 

Votre  Eminence  estd'une  exactitude  qui  me  charme,  et  dont 
je  ne  puis  trop  lui  t6moigner  ma  reconnaissance.  Votre  lettre 
du  i^*"  avril  m'est  arriv^e  avant-hier  a  Genes,  ou  je  suis  depuis 
quelques  jours.  J'y  suis  venu  par  le  chemin  de  la  Corniche, 
en    traversant    un    pays    ravissant,    qui    m'a    singuliferement 


DUC   DE   RICHELIEU.  I4I 

rappel6  la  cote  m^ridionale  de  la  Crimee,  le  seul  lieu  du 
monde  ou  je  sois  possesseur  de  quelques  arpents  de  terre,  et 
que,  peut-6tre  pour  cette  raison,  je  trouve  encore  sup6rieur  a  la 
rividre  de  G6nes. 

Un  avantage  incontestable  de  celui-ci,  c'est  la  population  et 
une  civilisation  bien  plus  avanc6e  :  on  trouve  dans  cet  espace 
quantit6  de  petites  villes  et  de  villages  riches,  et  qui 
contiennent  des  6glises  magnifiques  et  des  palajs  qui  ne 
d6pareraient  pas  des  capitales  ;  une  for^t  continue  d'oliviers 
qui  sont  ici  des  arbres  de  haute  futaie,  entrem616e  de  jardins 
d'orangers  et  de  citronniers,  des  palmiers  en  si  grande  quantite 
a  la  Bordighiera  qu'on  se  croit  presque  en  Afrique.  Des 
travaux  gigantesques  commences  pour  faire  une  route  dont  la 
fin  seule  et  le  commencement  sont  acheves  ;  tels  sont  les 
objets  qui  frappent  le  voyageur  qui  ne  craint  pas  trop 
I'exercice  du  cheval,  pour  avoir  choisi  ce  chemin,  dont  les 
beautes  le  d6dommagent  bien  de  la  fatigue  qu'il  6prouve. 

Buonaparte  voulait  que  la  route  commenc6e  s'6tendit 
jusqu'en  Toscane,  en  suivant  le  littoral,  et,  s'il  fut  encore  rest6 
deux  ans  en  possession  du  pouvoir,  la  chose  serait  faite. 
Des  rochers  perc6s,  des  murs  61ev6s  du  bord  de  la  mer  a 
cinquante  pieds  de  haut  pour  soutenir  le  chemin,  aitestent  la 
puissance  de  sa  volenti. 

La  partie  de  Nice  a  Menton  et  de  Savone  a  Genes  qui  est 
terminee,  est  la  plus  belle  chose  dans  ce  genre.  Le  reste  est 
abandonn6,  au  grand  chagrin  des  habitants  qui,  comme 
presque  tous  ceux  qui  ont  6t6  s6par6s  de  la  France,  en 
regrettent  la  domination.  C'est  encore  une  rectification  a  faire 
aux  id6es  que  nous  avions  apport6es  du  dehors,  qui  6tait  de 
croire  les  peuples  r6unis  a  la  France  dans  une  situation 
malheureuse,  et  soupirant  apres  ce  que  nous  appelions  leur 
d61ivrance.  II  n'en  est  point  ainsi,  et  ceux  que  j'ai  vus  en 
Belgique,  sur  les  bords  du  Rhin  et  ici,  professent  des  senti- 
ments tout  opposes.  C'est  que  les  hommes  n'aiment  point  a 
rompre  leurs  habitudes,  meme  celles  qu'ils  ont  prises  d'abord 
avec  regret. 

Dans  dix  ou  quinze  ans  les  G^nois  eux-m6mes,  qui  sont 
sans  doute  peu  affection n6s  aujourd'hui  au  gouvernement  du 
roi  de  Sardaigne,    seraient  bien  f aches  d'en  ctre  s6par6s.     U 


142  COSMOPOLIS. 

est  fort  nature!  que,  n'etant  plus  fran^ais,  il  eussent  d6sir6 
redevenir  G(§nois,  comme  on  les  en  avait  flatt^s  en  1814. 
Au  reste  les  masses  sont  et  seront  tranquilles  :  tout  le  monde 
regarde  de  notre  c6t6  et,  il  faut  Tavouer,  c'est  avec  efifroi  et 
inquietude.  Les  derni^res  elections  ne  les  calmeront  pas  et  si, 
dans  les  suivantes,  le  ministere  n'obtient  qu'un  hommc  a  lui 
contre  quatre  independants,  il  est  difficile  de  croire  qu'il  puisse 
etre  satisfait  ou  tranquille  sur  I'avenir. 

Je  suis  charm6,  Monseigneur,  que  nous  ayons  envisage  ces 
derniers  evdnements  de  la  meme  manifere ;  il  me  semble, 
quand  on  veut  etre  de  sang-froid  et  ne  se  passion ner  d'aucune 
maniferc,  qu'il  est  impossible  d'en  juger  autrement.  On  a  agi 
d'humeur  de  part  et  d'autre  et  ce  n'est  pas  ainsi  qu'il  faut 
regler  le  sort  des  nations.  Puisse  la  Providence  ecarter  de  la 
notre  les  secousses  qu'il  n'est  pas  possible  de  ne  pas  redouter, 
EUe  meriterait  pourtant  d'etre  heureuse  et  tranquille,  car,  hors 
un  bien  petit  nombre  de  gens  pour  lesquels  le  repos  est  in- 
supportable, tout  le  reste  de  la  France  ne  soupire  qu'aprfes  la 
tranquillit<^.  Malheureusement  les  hommes  turbulents  sont  a 
Paris,  et  c'est  de  la  qu'on  est  accoutume  a  attendre  et  a 
recevoir  la  loi  :  on  Taccepterait  encore  quelle  qu'elle  put  etre. 
Helas  !  si  un  certain  parti,  contre  lequel  assur^ment  on  ne  me 
verra  pas  r6criminer,  maintenant  qu'il  est  abattu,*  eut  bien 
voulu  faire  cause  commune  avec  nous,  les  m^chants  n'eussent 
pas  eu  le  moyen  de  se  faire  craindre,  en  profitant  de  nos  divi- 
sions. Mais  une  fois  obliges  de  combattre  ceux  qui  devaient 
etre  notre  appui,  que  pouvait-on  esp^rer  ?  L'opposition 
royaliste  dans  les  chambres  et  hors  des  chambres  etait  une 
monstntosM  qui  devait  afjiencr  fous  les  maux,  Au  moins,  si  Ton 
pouvait  profiter  de  I'ebranlement  de  toutes  nos  institutions 
par  cet  accroissement  de  la  Chambre  des  pairs,  pour  amener  le 
renouvellement  integral  de  la  Chambre  des  d^put^s,  au  lieu  de 
cette  election  annuelle,  que  I'exp^rience  nous  a  prouvee  etre  si 
funeste,  ce  serait  une  compensation  d'un  grand  poids  ;  mais 
je  n'ose  Tesp^rer  et,  pourtant,  tousles  gens  senses  reconnaissent 
les  abus  du  syst^me  actuel.  Quelle  est  done  cette  terreur  qui 
saisit  tous  les  esprits,  des  qu'il  s'agit  de  prendre  une  mesure 
qui   pourrait  d^concerter  un   peu   le   parti   d^sorganisateur  ? 

*  L'extrcme  droiie  ou  parti  ultra. 


UUC  DE  RICHELIEU. 


desirC 

monde 
•tfroi  tt 
IS  et  M, 


1 


pin->t- 


^g^  ces 

semble, 

\   a   a^- 
il   t\n:t 

outer. 

si  in- 

res  b 

out  /t 

et   :. 

etre. 

me 

>ien 

ent 

iv> 

?nt 

in 


•;r 


n 

s 


Serait-il  done  vrai  que  la  peur  est  encore  la  passion  domin? 
comme  aux  premiers  jours  de  la  Revolution  ?  Cela  serai 1 1 
triste  a  penser. 

Tout  ce  que  vous  me  dites  de  I'assassinat  de  Kotzebuc* 
parfaitement  juste.  Lorsque  j'^tais  a  Aix-la-Chapelle,  je  lui 
memoire  sur  I'^tat  de  TAllemagne,  et  notamment  sur  les  1 
versit6s,  6crit  par  un  jeune  grec  nomm6  Stourdza,t  attache 
minist&re  russe.  II  en  faisait  un  tableau  fort  inqui^tant,  et 
morceau  6tait  si  rempli  d'esprit  que  I'empereur  ordonna  c 
fut  imprim^.  A  peine  parut-il  qu'il  servit  de  point  de  mil 
tous  les  pamphl6taires  allemands,  qui  accablferent  Touvrag^ 
Tauteur  de  tout  le  poids  de  leurs  arguments,  assaisonn^s  d' 
forte  dose  de  bile.  Kotzebuc  releva  toutes  les  critiques  e" 
un  tr6s  grand  61oge  de  M.  Stourdza  et  de  son  m6moire  ;  c 
pour  ce  crime  irr6missible  qu'il  a  6tc  livr6  en  holocauste  i 
vengeance  des  philosophes  germains,  qui  sent  parvenu 
fanatiser  toute  cette  jcunesse,  a  la  vue  des  gouvernements 
les  laissent  faire ;  ou  je  me  trompe  fort,  ou  cet  6vdnen 
aura  des  suites  trfes  graves,  et  il  est  bien  temps  qu'on  pre 
des  mesures  centre  un  systfeme  dont  les  suites  et  les  r6sul 
sent  aussi  ^pouvantables,  et  je  suis  sur  que  I'empereur 
Russie  y  emploiera  toute  son  influence.  Buonaparte,  qui  c 
naissait  tous  ces  messieurs,  avait  eu  bien  raison  de  I 
imposer  silence. 

Je  suis  bien  fach6,  Monseigneur,  que  I'espfece  de  rela 
que  vous  avez  6prouv6  a  vos  douleurs  de  goutte,  penc 
une  partie  de  I'hiver,  n'ait  pas  continue  ;  j'en  suis  afflig6  p 
vous  et  aussi  pour  ma  soeur,t  qui  a  perdu  par  la  I'espoir 

• 

•  Auguste- Frederic- Ferdinand  de  Kolzebue,  celebrc  auleur  dramatique 
mand,  ne  en  1761  a  Weimar,  tut*  a  Mannheim  par  I'etudiant  Charles-Louis  S 
1e23  mars  1819. 

t  Alexandre  Stourdza,  diplomate  et  litterateur  russe  (178H-1854),  tils  de  Sc 
Stourd/a  qui  s'etait  refugie  en  Kussie  en  I7()2  apres  s'etre  cnmpromis  dan 
affaires  politiques  de  son  pays.  La  princesse  Gaj^arin  a  publie  en  Frano 
<cuvres  de  son  pere  Alexandre  Stourd/a. 

t  II  s'agit  dc  la  sceur  ainee  du  due,  qui  avait  cpouse  Antoine-Pierre-Jo 
Chapclle,  marquis  de  Jumilhac,  petit-tils  du  marquis  de  Jumilhac  qui  comi 
dait  les  mousquetaires  gris  a  la  bataille  de  Fontencn*.  Promu  lieutenant-«:ei 
en  1815,  Ic  beau-frerc  de  M.  de  Richelieu  avait  revu  Ic  commandcment  c 

16*  division  militaire,  a  Lille,  ou  il  devait  mourir  le  lO  fevrier  1S26.  C'est  U 
<lc  cet  officier-general  qui  fut  substitue  aux  nom  et  armes  de  la  duche-pairi^ 

Richelieu  apres  la  mort  de  son  oncle. 


144  COSMOPOLTS. 

voiis  voir,  quoiqiie  bien  pr^s  de  vous.  J'espcre  que  ce  beau 
temps  vous  rendra  un  peu  de  forces  ;  je  voudrais  bien  vous 
envoyer  celui  que  nous  avons  depuis  six  semaines,  Quand 
vous  reverrai-je,  Monseigneur?  Je  Tignore  encore  ;  je  ne  suis 
pas  tres  press6  de  revenir  et  il  me  semble  que  la  session  se 
prolongera  :  je  vois  de  la  besogne  encore  pour  trois  mois. 

J'irai  d'ici  a  Milan,  d'ou  je  ferai  des  excursions  a  Venise  et 
dans  les  environs  ;  c'est  done  chez  le  consul  de  France,  dans 
la  premiere  de  ces  villes,  que  je  vous  prie  de  me  donner  de 
vos  nouvelles,  et  je  vous  demande  de  le  faire,  si  vous  voulez 
me  procurer  un  extreme  plaisir. 

Hecevez,  Monseigneur,  avcc  votre  amitic  ordinaire,  Tassu- 
rance  du  tendre  ct  inviolable  attachement  que  jc  vous  ai  vouc 
pour  la  vie. 

RicnKLi?:u. 

Le  lendemain,  16  avril,  le  due  de  Richelieu,  ecrivait  a  son 
neveu,  le  general  de  Rochechouart :  "  Je  n'ai  pas  envie  d'allon- 
ger  ma  promenade  ;  je  vais  aller  en  Lombardie,  a  Venise, 
jusqu'au  moment  011  Ton  pourra  entrer  en  Suisse..."  Cepen- 
dant,  il  s'arrete  a  Florence,  et  c'est  de  la  capitale  de  la  Toscane 
qu'il  adressa,  le  11  mai,  une  nouvelle  lettre  a  son  neveu  :  "Ma 
sante  n'est  pas  bonne,  ecrit-il,  ce  ne  sont  plus  des  maux  de 
nerfs,  mais  un  dc^labrement  de  Testomac...  Dans  trois  jours  je 
prends  le  chemin  de  Milan  par  Bologne,  Ferrare  et  Venise..." 
Et  le  5  juin  :  "  A  Venise,  j'avais  bien  envie  d'aller  a  Vienne  et 
a  Odessa  ;  cela  sera  pour  I'ann^e  prochaine.  Ecrivez-moi  a 
Geneve,  on  je  serai  dans  quinze  jours,  aprds  avoir  visits  le  lac 
de  Come,  le  lac  Majeur  et  pass6  le  Simplon..."  Le  lendemain, 
M.  de  Richelieu  reprenait  sa  correspondance  avec  le  cardinal 
de  Bausset  : 

Milan,  Ic  6  juiu  iSig. 
Monseigneur, 
J'ai  trouv6  en  arrivant  ici  votre  aimable  lettre  du  27  avril ; 
vous  savez  d'avance  combien  j'ai  de  plaisir  a  lire  tout  ce  qui 
me  vient  de  Votre  Eminence,  surtout  lorsque  vous  vous  livrez 
a  cette  causerie  toujours  si  instructive  et  si  int6ressante.  Tout 
Ct  que  vous  me  dites  sur  Tincertitude  de  notre  avenir  est  d'une 
telle  justesse  qu'il  est  impossible  de  ne  pas  partager  toutes  vos 


DUC  DE   RICHELIEU.  I45 

6s.  D'un  c6l6,  il  est  vrai,  se  pr6sente  une  masse  difficile 
uer  et  fatigu6e  de  revolutions  ;  mais  de  Tautre,  un  parti 
igible,  actif,  infatigable,  qui  ne  compte  pour  rien  Tex- 
ce  et  qui  veut  renouveler  ses  essais,  quelles  qu'en  puissent 
es  consequences.  Ces  hommes  me  reprcsentent  des 
ns  qui  vont  voler  des  cadavres  pour  faire  des  experiences 
omie. 

ultra-lib6raux  voudraient  bien   escamoter   encore   une 
:  peuple  fran9ais  pour  le  dissequer  a  leur  aise,  pour  le 
lir    a   la    manifere  de   Medte.     Faciamns  cxpcrimeuUtmj 
-ils.     Je  voudrais  bien  que  nous  ne  fussions  pas  Yaniuni 
Mais,  a  la  maniere  dont  ils  combattent,  et  dont  meme 
^portent  leurs  defaites,  on  dirait  qu'ils  se  croient  surs  de 
lit.    Je  disais  hier  qu'ils  allaient  rompre  avec  M.  de  Serre 
;on  cnergique  profession  de  foi  dans  la  stance  du  17  mai. 
que  ce  matin  la  MinetTC  me  tombe  sous  la  main,  et  j'y 
:   en   effet   une  diairibe  contre  M.  de  Serre,  plus   forte 
5  que  je  ne  m'y  serais  attcndu.     Rien  n'est  plus  propre  a 
uvrir  les  yeux  sur  Tinutilite,  le  danger  meme  des  conces- 
I  un  parti  que  rien  ne  pourra  jamais  satisfaire,  exceptc  la 
tion  de  ce  qui  est,  et  qu'il  faut  se  decider  a  combattre, 
corps,  si  Ton  ne  vcut  pas  en  etre  6crase. 
dependra  maintcnant  de  savoir  si  Ton   parviendra  a 
ler   de  se  recruter  considcrablement   aux   prochaines 
,   car,   bien  surement,  elles  auront  lieu  sans  aucune 
lion   de  la   loi,  et  j'avoue  qu'a  present  je  ne  vois  pas 
cette  loi  pourrait  etre  changee.     Je  connais  bien  les 
que  Ton  court  avec  elle,    mais   il   m'est   impossible 
)ir  un  remfede  qui  ne  presente  au  moins  autant  de 
le  mal   lui-meme.     Remettons-nous  en  done  a  la 
*  qui  ne  permettra  peut-etre  pas  que  la  France  et 
)ient  de   nouveau  livrees  a  des  convulsions  dont  il 
isible  de  prcvoir  toutes  les  suites. 
le  faire  un  voyage  charmant  et  qui  ne  me  laisse  de 
e  sacrifice  que  j'ai  fait  de   Rome  et  de  Naples ; 
'  je  suis  fort  tente  de  croire  que  je  me  suis  un  peu 
I   importance   et   les  inconv^nients   qu'aurait   pu 
icontre    avec  les  personnages  augustes  qui  pap- 
ers   r Italic    mcridionale.       Personne    n'y    aurait 

XXV.  10 


I46  COSMOt'OLlS, 

probablement  pensc,  car  je  crois  et  j'espcre  qu'on  commence 
a  m'avoir  tout  a  fait  oubli6.  Je  me  suis  done  borne  a  Florence, 
et  de  la  je  suis  venu  a  Venise  par  Bologne,  et  de  Venise  ici  a 
travers  le  beau  royaume  Iombardo-v6nitien  qui  est  bien  ce 
qu'il  y  a  au  monde  de  plus  magnifique.  Venise  seule  m'a 
attrist6  Tame  :  c'est  une  destruction  horrible  et  inevitable  ;  il 
faut  qu'elle  rentre  sous  les  eaux  dont  tant  d'efforts  et  d'in- 
dustrie  Tavaient  fait  sortir.  Depuis  T^poque  ou  elle  avait  cessc 
d'etre  la  m^tropole  du  commerce  du  monde,  Venise  marchait 
a  la  ruine,  et  ne  la  retardait  qu'en  employant  a  sa  conser- 
vation tous  les  moyens  et  les  ressources  de  ses  etats  de  terrc 
ferme. 

Maintenant  il  ne  pent  plus  en  etre  ainsi  :  la  population  est 
dcja  diminu6e  de  soixante  mille  ames  ;  les  palais  s'ecroulent, 
les  canaux  se  comblent  et  Venise  n'est  d6ja  plus  que  I'ombre 
de  ce  qu'elle  6tait.  Au  contraire  les  villes  de  terre  ferme, 
Padoue,  Vicence,  V6rone  s'enrichissent  de  ses  pertes  et  ont 
gagn6  singuliferement  en  population,  en  industrie  et  en  activite, 
Mais,  que  vous  dire  de  Milan  ?  Quelle  magnifique  ville,  que 
d'embellissements,  que  de  richesses  !  Si  Buonaparte  eut  pro- 
Iong6  sa  puissance  de  quelques  ann6es,  c'eut  6t6  sans  aucun 
doute  la  plus  superbe  ville  du  monde  entier.  Son  arc  de 
triomphe,  s'il  s'achfeve  (et  Ton  dit  qu'il  s'achevera),  surpassera 
de  beaucoup  tout  ce  que  les  Romains  nous  ont  laisse  dans  ce 
genre.  Un  cours  plants  d'une  double  allce  d'arbres  fait  le 
tour  entier  de  la  ville  int^rieurement ;  un  autre,  tout  semblablc, 
la  ceint  a  Texterieur.  Un  cirque  magnifique  dans  le  genre 
des  arenes  des  anciens,  offre  le  moyen  de  donner  des  fetes  de 
toute  espece,  car  on  y  fait  entrer  cinq  pieds  d'eau  a  volont6  ; 
cinquante-deux  mille  personnes  peuvent  y  trouver  place.  Je 
ne  finirais  pas  si  je  voulais  vous  d6crire  tout  ce  qui  s'est  fait  et 
ce  qui  se  preparait  ici. 

A  present,  observez  que  cette  ville  6tait  le  centre  d'un 
gouvernement  dont  les  depenses  montaient  a  cent  cinquante 
millions,  qui  avait  son  administration  a  part,  un  ministfere,  une 
arm6e  distincte,  des  places,  des  emplois  remplis  par  des 
hommes  du  pays  ;  enfin,  une  apparence  de  nationality,  qu'avec 
le  temps  on  esp6rait  bien  voir  devenir  reelle  ;  et  je  vous  laisse 
a  deviner  quels  sont  les  sentiments  qui  animent  la  ville  de 


DUG   DE   RICHELIEU.  147 

Milan  et  ses  habitants.  Si  de  la  vous  alliez  conclure  qu'ils  sont 
tout  prfes  de  se  r^volutionner,  vous  tomberiez  dans  une  grande 
erreur.  D'abord,  ils  ne  sont  pas  malheureux,  le  gouverne- 
ment  est  trfes  doux,  le  pays  fait  ses  petites  affaires  int^rieures 
lui-meme  de  la  maniere  que  vous  aimez.  On  paye,  mais  ou 
ne  paye-t-on  pas  ?  et  d'ailleurs,  on  est  si  riche  !  A  Venise 
meme  et  depuis  Venise  jusqu'ici,  je  n'ai  pas  vu  un  mendiant, 
ni  pas  un  homme  deguenill^,  et  une  telle  richesse  que  jc  ne 
craindrais  pas  de  vous  dire  qu'un  jour  de  dimanche,  on  voit 
ici,  au  cours,  plus  de  carrosses  et  d'equipages  qu'il  n'y  en  a  dans 
toutes  les  villes  de  province  de  France  r^unies.  La  sole,  le  riz 
et  les  fromages  fournissent  a  ce  pays  tous  les  moyens  d'^change 
dont  il  a  besoin  et  un  grand  b6n6fice  en  sus. 

Ainsi  done,  il  y  a  surement  regret  du  passe  pour  beaucoup 
de  gens,  nulle  affection  pour  ce  qui  existe,  mais  obtissance  et 
tranquillit6  parfaites.  II  faut  done  que  nos  messieurs  les 
lib6raux  veuillent  bien  renoncer  a  voir  revolution ner  T Italic  ; 
quelque  affligeant  que  cela  soit  pour  des  hommes  si  pleins  de 
philanthropic,  elle  sera  soumise  tant  qu'il  n'y  aura  pas  d'invasion 
6trangere  et  que  cette  invasion  n'aura  pas  r^ussi. 

Je  m'en  vais  faire  la  tourn^e  des  lacs,  visiter  les  iles  Borro- 

m6es  et,  de  la,  passer  le  Simplon  pour  venir  a  Genfeve,  d'ou  je 

me  dirigerai  sur  Paris,  ou  bien  ferai  encore  un  tour  en  Suisse, 

selon  les  circonstances.     Je  vous  avoue  que  mon  gout  pour 

les  voyages  s'est  ranim6  avec  une  nouvelle  fureur  et  j'espcre 

pouvoir  satisfaire  cette  humeur  vagabonde.     Oh,  mon  Dieu  ! 

Monseigneur,  pourquoi  ne  pouvez-vous  pas  venir  avec  moi  a 

Rome  et  a  Naples  quand  j'irai  ?  car  j'irai  surement.    II  y  aurait 

cependant  une  certaine  circonstance  ou  il  faudrait  bien  que 

vous  allassiez  a  Rome,  et,  au  fait,  vous  ne  seriez  pas  oblige 

d'aller  en  courrier.    En  attendant  que  nous  prenions  ensemble 

les  derniers  arrangements  pour  ce  voyage,  je  me  fais  grand 

plaisir    de    vous    embrasser    rue    de    Crenelle,   ou    meme    a 

Maffliers,*  ou  Ton  me  permettra  bien  d'aller   a  mon  arriv^e 

pour  vous  voir  ?    Je  m'en  fais  une  bien  grande  fete,  et  ce  sera 

un  dMommagement  de  mille  petits  d^plaisirs  et  contraric^t^s 

4^i  m'attendent  a  Paris.     Nous  parlerons  de  ces  mt^moircs  que 

vous  voulez  que  j'6crive,  ce   a   quoi   je  serais  assez  dispose, 

'  Residence  d'cte  du  cardinal  dc  Hau&sct,  pics  d'Ecoiicii  (Scinc-ct-Oibc). 


148  COSMOPOLIS. 

n'6tait  Tennui  de  recommencer  ce  que  j'avais  fait,  au  moins 

en  partie,  et  que  j'ai  briile  a  Odessa  pendant  la  peste,     Mais 

il  faut  occuper  ses  loisirs  et  je  suis  assez  tent6  de  les  remplir 

ainsi. 

Au  plaisir  done  de  vous  voir,  Monseigneur,  conservez-moi 

votre  amiti^  et  comptez  sur  mon   tendre   attachement   pour 

la  vie. 

Richelieu. 

Le  19  juillet  le  due  de  Richelieu  ecrivait  de  Zurich  a  M.  de 
Rochechouart :  "  Je  viens  de  passer  seize  jours  dans  les  mon- 
tagnes,  en  visitant  Genfeye,  Lausanne,  Fribourg,  Berne  et 
surtout  rOberland  ;  encore  une  petite  excursion  dans 
TAppenzell  et  j'irai  prendre  une  saison  d'eaux  a  Spa...  Ce 
matin  je  trouve  un  bouquet  a  Tauberge.  Ma  folic  dc  Rcinc 
serait  done  arrivce  ?  Elle  me  poursuit  de  son  amour  insensd,* 
je  me  sauve  bien  vite."  Puis,  de  Spa,  le  due  6crit  encore,  le 
25  septembre  :  **MaJollc  dc  Kcinc  est  ici  dans  un  incognito 
sevfere  et  tellement  voil^e  que,  si  je  la  rencontre,  je  ne  suis  jamais 
certain  que  cela  soit  elle  et  je  passe  mon  chemin  ;  cela  est 
pourtant  au  total  assez  ennuyeux." 

En  quittant  Spa  M.  de  Richelieu  visita  Franefort-sur-le- 
Mein  et  fit,  sur  le  Rhin,  un  voyage  qui  Tenchanta ;  il  etait 
r6joui  par  Inanimation  du  pays  pendant  les  vendanges  et 
'•I'aspeet  de  tant  de  visages  joyeux."  II  arrivait  enfin  a  Dus- 
seldorf  et,  dans  une  lettre  du  11  octobre  a  son  neveu,  il 
temoignait  son  etonnement  du  mariage  de  son  ancien  com- 
pagnon  d'armes,  le  g6n6ral  comte  de  Langeron  :  **  Le  consul 
me  confirme,  dit-il,  que  Langeron  a  demand^  a  Tempereur  la 
permission  d'^pouser  la  plus  belle  personne  de  son  empire. 
Mademoiselle  Briimmer  :  si  mon  pauvre  ami  n'est  pas  fou,  le 
roi  n'est  pas  noble  1 " 

Quelques  jours  aprfes,  le  due  part  pour  le  nord  de  la 
Hollande  ;  il  visite  Amsterdam  et  la  Haye  ;  il  quitte  cette 
dernifere  ville  le  17  novembre,  s'arrete  a  Bruxelles  et  rentre 
a  Paris  au  commencement  du  mois  de  d^cembre,  apres  avoir 
pass6  quelques  jours  a  Lille  chez  sa  soeur,  la  marquise  de 
Jumilhac. 

*  On  sail,  en  uffet,  que  la  souvcrainc  de  I'un  des  royaumes  du  nord  dc  I'Eurupc 
eprouva  une  grandc  pasbion  pour  Ic  due  de  Richelieu. 


DUG   DE   RICHELIEU.  149 

M.  de  Richelieu  avail,  dans  sa  troisifeme  Icttre  au  cardinal 
de  Bausset,  manifest6  I'esp^rance  de  pouvoir  consacrer 
bientot  son  temps  a  la  redaction  de  ses  memoires,  mais  il  ne 
devait  malheureusement  pas  avoir  la  possibility  de  le  faire,  du 
moins  en  ce  qui  concerne  sa  jeunesse,  ses  grands  travaux  en 
Russie  et  son  premier  ministfere  en  France.  L'assassinat 
de  Monseigneur  le  due  de  Berry  eut  pour  consequence 
d'amener  la  chute  du  cabinet  centre  gauche  personnifie  par 
M.  Decazes  ;  le  due  de  Richelieu  dut  alors  c6der  aux  instances 
du  Roi  et  reprendre  le  pouvoir  le  21  Janvier  1820,  non  pas 
toutefois  sans  s'fitre  assur6  la  promesse  formelle  du  concours 
de  Monsieur.  Mais,  moins  de  deux  ans  aprfes,  le  president  du 
Conseil,  fatigu6  de  luttes  incessanties  et  ayant  reconnu  Tinanit^ 
d'engagements  que  le  comte  d'Artois  ne  voulait  plus  se 
rappeler,  prit,  le  I4d6cembre  1821,  le  parti  de  se  retirer  devant 
la  coalition  des  gauches  et  de  I'extr^me  droite. 

Le  17  mai  de  I'ann^e  suivante,  ce  grand  patriote  mourait, 
min6  par  le  chagrin  et  use  avant  Tage  par  un  labeur  continue!. 
II  laissait  un  in^moire  sur  sa  rciraite  du  pouvoir^  document 
important  qui  eclaire  d'une  fa^on  lumineuse  la  position  des 
partis  sous  le  regne  de  Louis  XVIII. 

Paris,  25  mai  1897.  K-  ^'-  Cisternes. 


LE  LIVRE  A  PARIS. 


M.   AxATOLK    Fkaxck  :  Lc  Mannequin  d'Osicr.  —  M.    Maukick  Barkks  : 
Lts  ni'nuinis.  —  Poesic  :  Lcs  Hauiuincs,  par  Makckl  Kouff. 

M.  Anatole  France  a  donn6  une  suite  a  cet  admirable 
Orme  du  Mail  qui  est  des  plus  amusants  romans  de  moeurs 
de  tout  ce  sifecle  et  un  des  plus  vrais.  Cette  suite  s'appelle 
le  Manneqtiiu  d'Osier.  N'attachez  aucune  importance  a  ce 
titre  qui  ne  se  rapporte  qu'a  un  minuscule  incident  du  r6cit. 

Le  Mannequin  d*Osicr  ne  contient  pas  plus  d'6v6nements  que 
rOrmc  du  Mail,  Dieu  merci  ;  et  Ton  serait  sans  doute  amfere- 
ment  furieux  qu'un  homme  d'esprit  comme  M.  Anatole  France 
s'avisat  de  raconter  des  histoires ;  mais  il  contient  aussi 
moins  de  portraits,  ce  qui  6tait  un  charme,  et  le  principal, 
de  rOnne  du  Mail.  Nul  personnage  nouveau.  Nous  sommes 
toujours  en  compagnie  de  M.  Worms-Clavelin,  lepr6fet,  de 
M.  Lantaigne,  le  directeur  du  s6minaire,  de  M.  Guitrel  le  pretre 
ambitieux,  candidat-6veque,  et  de  M.  Bergeret,  maitre  de 
conferences  a  la  Faculty  des  Lettres.  Et  encore,  M.  Worms- 
Clavelin,  dans  ce  nouveau  volume,  apparait  a  peine,  M. 
Lantaigne  assez  peu  et  M.  Guitrel  trop  rarement. 

Reste  le  manage  Bergeret,  et  que  M.  Bergeret  fut  trait6  par 
Mme  Bergeret  comme  s'il  eut  6te  Vulcain,  comme  si  elle  eut 
6t6  V6nus  et  comme  si  M.  Roux,  61feve  pref^r^  de  M.  Bergeret, 
eut  et6  Mars,  ce  qu'il  n'etait  point. 

A  vrai  dire  la  vulcanisation  de  M.  Bergeret  est  une  chose 
qui  int6resse  peu  M.  Roux,  qui  n'int6resse  point  infiniment 
M.  Bergeret,  qui  int6resse  m6diocrement  M.  Anatole  France 
et  qui  ne  nous  intcresse,  vous  et  moi,  que  je  croie,  point  du 
tout ;  et  ce  qui  s'ensuivit,  a  savoir  le  renvoi  d'une  servante 
d'abord  et  de  Mme  Bergeret  ensuite,  sont  choses  que  nous 
nous  passerions  de  savoir. 


LE    LIVRE   A    PARFS.  15I 

Pour  renseignement  je  ne  vous  cacherai  point  qu'un  de  ces 
excellents  critiques  fran9ais  qui  ne  se  demandent  jamais  que 
*'  si  c'est  bien  compost,"  et  que  j'ai  appel^s  quelque  jour  des 
esthetes  g6omfetres,  me  fait  remarquer  ici  quece  reman  est  une 
merveille  de  composition.  11  est  ropalique.  II  est  en  progression 
bien  m^nagte  et  mesur^e.  M,  Bergeret,  m^content,  sans  fureur, 
du  reste,  d'avoir  6t6  vulcanise,  chasse  sa  femme  ;  mais  comme 
il  est  de  caractfere  faible,  il  la  chasse  en  trois  fois.  II  s'y 
reprend.  Un  pas,  puis  un  autre  plus  accus6,  puis  un  autre, 
definitif.  II  la  chasse  d'abord  en  la  personne  du  mannequin 
d'osier  sur  lequel  elle  essayait  ses  robes  et  qu'il  jette  par 
la  fen^tre.  II  la  chasse  ensuite  en  la  personne  de  la  servante 
d^voute  qui  prenait  les  int^rets  de  sa  maitresse.  II  la  chasse 
enfin  elle-meme.  Et  voila  qui  est  d'une  composition  admirable. 

Peut-etre  bien ;  mais  je  ne  laisse  pas  d'etre  peu  sensible  a 
ce  genre  de  mdrite  ;  et,  d6cid6ment,  il  n'y  a  pas  assez  de 
personnages  int6ressants  dans  le  Mannequin  d'Osicr,  il  n'y  pas 
une  peinture  nouvelle,  ou  plus  poussee  des  moeurs  provinciales 
fran^aises ;  il  n'y  a  pas  de  discussions  aussi  brillantes  que 
dans  rOnne  du  Mail,  et,  a  tous  ces  points  de  vue,  le  nouveau 
volume  est  inf6rieur  au  pr6c6dent. 

Est-ce  a  dire  qu'il  soit  une  d^faillance,  et  qu'a  le  prendre 
en  soi  il  soit  point  bon  ?  —  Tant  s'en  faut,  et  c'est  une  des 
ceuvres  les  plus  fortes  et  les  plus  fines  de  M.  France  ;  et  jamais 
M.  France  n'a  eu  ni  plus  d'esprit  ni  plus  de  profondeur. 

C'est  une  ceuvre  toute  de  pens6e  ;  c'est  un  "  roman  philoso- 
phique'  a  la  fa^on  du  xviii®  sifecle,  et  ou  M.  France  se  livre 
beaucoup  plus,  dont  nous  le  remercions,  que  dans  aucun  de 
ses  ouvrages.  On  sent  qu'ici  plus  que  dans  la  merveilleuse 
Rdtisserie  de  la  reine  Pedauque,  plus  que  dans  les  Opinions 
de  J^rdme  Coignard,  plus  que  dans  lOrme  du  Mail  lui-meme, 
M.  France  parle  en  son  nom,  fait,  par  la  bouche  de  M. 
Bergeret,  ses  reflexions  personnelles  sur  les  moeurs,  les  travers, 
le*^  id6cs,  la  religion  et  la  politique  des  Fran^ais  de  la  classe 
nioyenne.  Le  ton  difffere  a  peine  en  ce  volume  quand  il  y  a 
des  guillemets  et  quand  il  n'y  en  a  pas.  C'est,  sous  forme 
directe,  ou  sous  forme  indirecte,  une  suite  de  jugements  sur 
tout  ce  que  nous  pensons,  disons,  sentons,  faisons,  et  surtout 
ne  faisons  pas.    C'est  une  revue  des  choses  de  France. 


It:  2  COSMOPOLIS. 

Est-elle  favorable,  cette  revue  ?  Est-il  amical,  ce  jugement  ? 
Oh  !  Dieu  !  Non  !  II  ne  faut  pas  se  dissimuler  que  ce  livre 
est  un  pamphlet  formidable  pr6sent6  avec  un  sourire  enchan- 
teur.  La  pens6e  de  M.  France,  quand  il  lui  donnait  pour  en- 
veloppe  charnelle  M.  I'abb^  Jerome  Coignard,  6tait  optimiste  ; 
dans  VOrmc  dii  Mail  elle  etait  mcl^e,  quoique  assez  complai- 
samment  satirique  ;  dans  le  Matmequin  ^/'Os/Vr  elle  est  r6solu- 
ment  pessimiste,  terriblement  misanthropique  et  particuliere- 
ment  amfere  a  I'endroit  des  choses  de  P'rance. 

On  a  dit  que  M.  France  avait  bien  fait  du  chemin  depuis 
I'ang^lique  Sylvcstre  Bounard  et  qu'il  avait  peu  a  peu  "  d6gag6  " 
tout  ce  qu'il  y  avait  en  lui  de  Voltairien,  ou,  pour  mieux  parler, 
ce  qu'il  y  avait  en  lui  de  Voltaire.  Mais,  diantre  !  a  present, 
ce  n'est  plus  du  Voltaire.  Voltaire  n'est  pas  tout  entier  dans 
Caudide.  Voltaire  au  fond  est  tr^s  optimiste.  Personnc 
au  XVIII*'  sitele  jusqu'en  1780  environ,  n'est  pessimiste. 
D6barrassez  Thomme  de  la  civilisation,  il  est  excellent  :  voila 
Rousseau.  D6barrassez  I'homme  de  la  morale,  il  est 
exquis  :  voila  Diderot.  D6barrassez  I'homme  de  la  religion 
chr6tienne,  il  est  parfait,  ou  a  tres  peu  prfes  :  voila  Voltaire. 
Tous  optimistes.  Non,  ce  n'est  plus  Voltaire  que  M.  France 
rappelle  ;  c'est  Chamfort.  A  chaque  instant,  en  lisant  son 
dernier  volume,  je  m'6criais  :  C'est  du  Chamfort,  plus 
penetrant,  plus  philosophique,  plus  profond,  plus  savant,  et 
je  dirai  plus  amer,  s'il  6tait  vraiment  possible. 

Voulez-vous  I'opinion  de...  allons,mettons  de  M.  Bergeret,  sur 
les  conteurs  licencieux,  P^trone,  Noel  du  Fail,  La  Fontaine  ? 
'^O  conteurs  mil6siens...  quel  apotre  fut  plus  sage  et  meilleur 
que  vous,  qu'on  appelle  couramment  des  polissons  ?  O  bien- 
faiteurs  !  Vous  nous  avez  enseign6  la  vraie  science  de  la  vie, 
un  bienveillant  m^pris  des  hommes  !" 

lln  jour,  la  conversation  se  porte  sur  les  bons  disciples 
d'Auguste  Comte,  qui  adorent,  comme  on  sait,  Ic  grand 
fetiche,  c'est-a-dire  la  Terre  :  **  On  voit  bien,  dit  M.  Bergeret, 
qu'ils  sont  optimistes.  lis  le  sont  extremement ;  et  cette 
disposition  de  leur  esprit  m'6tonne.  II  est  difficile  de 
concevoir  que  des  hommes  sens6s  et  rcflcchis  nourrissent 
I'espoir  de  rendre  un  jour  supportable  le  s6jour  de  cette  petite 
boulc  qui,  tournant  gauchcment  autour  du  soleil  jaune  et  d6ja 


LE   LIVRE  A   PARIS.  1 53 

a  demi  obscurci,  nous  porte  comme  une  vermine  a  sa  surface 
moisie.  Le  grand  fetiche  ne  me  semble  pas  du  tout 
adorable...  Je  ne  suis  pas  trfes  61oign6  de  penser  que  la  vie, 
telle  du  moins  qu'elle  se  manifeste  sur  la  terre,  je  veux  dire  cet 
etat  d'activitc  que  prcisente  la  substance  organiste  dans  les 
plantes  et  dans  les  animaux,  est  Teffct  d'un  trouble  dans 
Teconomie  de  la  planfete,  un  produit  morbide,  une  lepre, 
quelque  chose  en  fin  de  d6goutant  qui  ne  se  retrouve  pas  dans 
un  astre  sain  et  bien  constitu6.  Cette  id<^  me  sourit  et  me 
console.  Car  enfin  il  est  triste  de  penser  que  tous  ces  soleils 
allum^  sur  nos  tfites  r6chauffent  des  planfetes  aussi  mis6rables 
que  la  notre  et  que  Tunivers  multiplie  a  Tinfini  la  souffrance 
et  la  laideur...  Je  veux  croire  que  la  vie  organis^e  est  un 
mal  particulier  a  cette  vilaine  planfete-ci.  II  serait  d^solant  de 
penser  qu'on  mange  et  qu'on  est  mang^  dans  I'infini  des 
cieux." 

Voyez-vous  bien  !  Au  xviir'  sifecle  Thypothfese  de  la 
plurality  des  mondes  habit6s  rcjouissait  les  coeurs  des  philo- 
sophes  autant  qu'elle  enchantait  leurs  imaginations  ;  main- 
tenant  elle  les  fait  fr6mir  d'horreur  et  d'effroi.  Voila  bien 
pr6cis6ment  la  difference.     Ce  pauvre  Musset  avait  tort : 

Dun  siecle  sans  cspoir  nail  un  sicclc  sans  craintc. 

Ce  n'est  pas  cela  du  tout :  D'un  sifecle  plein  d'espoir  nait  un 
si^cle  desesp6r6.     Le  vers  n'y  est  plus  ;  mais  la  v6rite  y  est. 

Voila  la  philosophic  g6n6rale  de  M.  France  en  son  Maunc- 
quilt  d'Osier,  Voulez-vous  savoir  un  peu  son  opinion  sur  la 
France  bourgeoise  de  1897  ? 

Mon  Dieu,  la  France  bourgeoise  de  1897,  c'est  M.  de 
Terremondre,  r6actionnaire,  qui  se  croit  catholique  et  qui  est 
profond^ment  scandalise  par  les  reflexions  du  R.  P.  Ollivier 
sur  la  catastrophe  du  Bazar  de  la  Charity  consid^r^e  comme 
chatiment  inflig6  a  la  France  pour  ses  fautes  ;  c'est-a-dire  par 
des  reflexions  qui  se  trouvent,  non  seulement  dans  Lamennais, 
mais  dans  Bossuet  ;  car  enfin  qu'est-ce  que  Bossuet  veut 
dire  quand  a  propos  de  la  mort  tragique  d'un  roi  qu'il  tient 
pour  un  saint,  il  s'(§crie  que  "  Dieu  se  plait  k  donner  au  monde 
de  grandes  et  terribles  lemons  "  ?  Mais  non  !  M.  de  Terremondre 
pense  que  I'incendie  du  Bazar  de  la  Charite  a  6t6  un  accident 
survenu  pendant  un  moment  de  distraction  du  bon  Dieu,  ct 


1 54  COSMOPOLIS. 

que  le  Tout-Puissant  a  eu,  apres  I'accident,  I'^tat  d'ame  de 
M.  le  pr6fet  de  police. 

Et  voila  le  repr6sentant  des  classes  dirigeantes  et  reli- 
gieuses. 

La  bourgeoisie  frangaise  de  1897,  c'est  les  chefs  d'ad- 
ministration,  M.  le  recteur,  M.  le  doyen  de  la  Faculty  des 
Lettres.  Sots  ?  Point !  M6chants  ?  Non  !  Quelque  chose 
comme  nuls,  effroyablement  nuls,  avec  la  haine  de  tout  ce  qui 
pourrait  bien,  peul-etre,  par  aventure,  etre  un  peu  plus  que 
rien  du  tout.  Ces  grisailles  affligent  M.  Bergeret  profondc^- 
ment.  "Non,  ce  n'est  pas  que  je  songe  a  Tinimiti^  que  M. 
le  doyen  et  M.  le  recteur  consentent  a  me  garden  Mais  le 
seul  abord  de  toute  personne  absolument  d^pourvue  de  toute 
imagination  me  glace  jusqu'aux  moelles.  Ce  qui  vraiment 
attriste,  ce  n'est  pas  Tid^e  de  Tinjustice  ou  de  la  haine.  Ce 
n'est  pas  non  plus  le  spectacle  des  douleurs  humaines.  Au 
contraire,  les  maux  denos  semblables  nous  font  rire  pour  peu 
qu'on  nous  les  pr^sente  gaiement.  Mais  ces  ames  mornes. 
qui  ne  refletent  rien,  ces  etrcs  en  qui  rutitvers  vieut  s*aniantir^ 
rH6?  Que  dites-vous  de  cette  petite  expression  ?  N'est-ce 
pas  que  ce  n'est  pas  trop  mal  ^crit  ?]  voila  I'aspect  qui  d6sole 
et  qui  desespfere.  Le  commerce  de  M.  Torquet  est  une  des 
plus  cruelles  disgraces  de  ma  vie." 

La  bourgeoisie  de  1897,  c'est  M.  le  s^nateur  Leprat-Teulet, 
chef  puissant  et  v^n^r6  du  parti  opportuniste  dans  la  province, 
grand  orateur  d'affaires,  poursuivi  une  premifere  fois  pour 
pot-de-vin,  ''  fait  qui  n'avait  rien  d'6trange  et  marquait  seule- 
ment  le  jeu  regulier  de  nos  institutions,"  honor6  d'un  "  non- 
lieu,"  a  propos  duquel  Mme  Leprat-Teulet  a  suspendu  un  ^.v- 
voio  en  la  chapelle  Saint-Antoine  avec  cette  inscription  : 
''Pour  une  grace  inesp6r6e,  une  Spouse  chr6tienne";  pour- 
suivi a  nouveau  pour  vol,  et  dont  la  destin^e  est  encore  au 
moment  011  j'6cris  sur  les  genoux  des  Dieux,  c'est-a-dire  de 
Messieurs  de  la  police  correctionnelle,  seuls  Dieux  qui  dans  le 
ciel  flottent  encore  aujourd'hui. 

La  bourgeoisie  de  1897,  c'est  surtout  Mme  Bergeret.  Elle  la 
personnifie  et  la  resume  harmonieusement.  C'est  une  Pouilly, 
la  fille  de  M.  le  proviseur  Pouilly,  la  ni^ce  de  "  M.  Pouilly, 
du  Dictionnaire."     Elle  est  fidre  de  cette  noblesse  bourgeoise 


LE    LIVRE   A   PARIS.  1 55 

et  universitaire.  Elle  sent  bien  que  M.  Bergeret,  puisqu'il  Ta 
6pous6e  sans  dot,  Ta  bien  6pous6e  pour  etre  gendre  du 
proviseur  et  neveu  du  dictionnaire.  EUe  le  m^prise  sans  col6re 
et  sans  rancune,  par  cela  seul  qu'il  est  naturel  qu'elle  le 
m^prise.  Elle  le  trompe  sans  depit  et  sans  remords,  et,  du 
reste,  presque  sans  plaisir,  par  cela  seul  qu'il  est  naturel,  et 
dans  Tordre,  et  inevitable  qu'un  Bergeret  soit  tromp6.  "  Son 
mepris  6tait  stable  et  fixe.  U  n'6iait  susceptible  ni  d'augmenta- 
tion  ni  de  diminution.  Mais  elle  ne  le  hafssait  pas.  Naguere 
encore,  die  ii^^prouvait  pas  dc  r^pu^iiancCf  dans  le  commerce 
ordinaire  de  la  vie,  a  le  tourmenter,  a  Tirriter,  a  lui  reprocher 
la  negligence  de  ses  habits  ou  la  maladresse  de  sa  conduite, 
[formes  ordinaires  de  la  sympathie  conjugale  dans  les  manages 
de  la  bourgeoisie  fran9aise]  et  a  lui  conter  ensuite  Thistoire  du 
voisinage  en  des  r6cits  ou  la  malice  et  la  malveillance  meme 
(itaient  m6diocres.  Des  gaz  de  vanit6  gonflaient  cette  ame 
ventrue,  qui  ne  distillait  ni  venins  terribles,  ni  poisons  rares." 

De  toutes  ces  platitudes  se  compose  la  society  contem- 
poraine  peinte  dans  le  volume  de  M.  France.  Comme  il  est 
dit  de  temps  en  temps  dans  quelques  Premier  Paris  graves, 
"  c'est  un  de  ces  livres  qui  r6jouissent  Tetranger."  Peut-etre 
bien  ;  mais  je  fais  remarquer  que  cette  formule,  qui  n'a  plus  a 
se  faire  connaitre,  est  un  reproche  beaucoup  plus  cruel  a 
retranger  qu'a#  Tauteur  qu'on  incrimine  ;  car  elle  suppose 
que  "  retranger "  est  assez  niais  pour  s'imaginer  que  ces 
platitudes  sont  strictement  notres  et  sont  chez  lui  complete- 
ment  inconnues.  II  ne  faut  pas  croire  T^tranger  aussi  imbecile 
que  cela.     II  y  a  la  quelque  exag6ration. 

J'aime  mieux  dire  tout  simplement  que  ce  livre  est  un  livre 
d'amertume  et  d'une  tristesse  qui  trouve  le  moyen  d'etre  grave, 
tout  en  6tant  trfes  spirituelle.  II  est  bien  resume  par  ce  mot 
d'une  des  premiferes  pages.  C'est  encore  ou  c'est  d6ja  M. 
Bergeret  qui  parle  :  '•  II  a  fallu  une  eternity  de  pr^liminaires 
chimiques  trfes  d61icats  pour  produire  mon  dictionnaire  et  ma 
femme,  monuments  de  ma  p^nible  vie.  Mon  dictionnaire  est 
plein  d'erreurs.  Am61ie  contient  une  ame  injurieuse  dans  un 
corps  epaissi.  C'est  pourquoi  il  n'y  a  gufere  a  esp^rer  qu'une 
eternite  nouvelle  cr6e  enfin  la  science  et  la  beauts.  Nous  vivons 
un  moment  et  nous  ne  gagnerions  rien  a  vivre  toujours.     Ce 


156  COSMOPOLIS. 

n'est  ni  le  temps  ni  Tespace  qui  fit  d6faut  a  la  nature  et  nous 
voyons  son  ouvrage." 

II  faut  bien  croire  en  effet  que  ce  qui  lui  fit  defaut  ce  fut  la 
bonne  volont^.  Meditation  triste,  analogue,  avec  certaines 
diflf^rences  de  forme,  au  Dt^scspoir  de  M.  de  Lamartine. 

On  voit  le  ton,  et  que  M.  France  est  un  Sterne  qui  tourne 
au  Swift.  Son  livre  produit  sur  moi  exactement  le  mcme  effet 
que  La  Rochefoucauld. 

Est-il  bon,  Teffet  ?  II  ne  faudrait  pas  en  abuser  ;  mais,  tres 
s6rieusement,  je  le  crois  bon.  Les  livres  pessimistes  sont  pour 
moi  des  amers,  ils  me  tonifient.  Je  n'en  lis  point  sans  faire,  un 
petit  moment,  le  propos  de  devenir  meilleur ;  sans  me 
promettre  surtout,  sans  doute,  de  ne  point  ^pouser  Mme 
Bergeret,  mais  aussi  de  n'etre  point  M.  Torquet,  ni  M. 
Leprat-Teulet...  le  moins  possible;  ni  m^me  M.  Bergeret,  qui 
est  un  sage,  qui  est  un  philosophe,  qui  est  un  Chamfort  ;  mais 
qui  a  bien  un  peu  commenctl^  par  etre  un  pleutre.  Voila  I'effet 
que  me  font  les  livres  mechants,  Swift,  La  Rochefoucauld, 
Candide,  le  Mannequin  d'Osier. 

Ce  sont  les  livres  optimistes  que  j'aime  peu.  Ils  me 
persuadent  que  je  suis  un  brave  gari^on,  ils  me  frottent  d'huile, 
ils  me  rendent  onctueux  sous  mes  propres  caresses,  et  ils  font 
de  moi  ce  que  nous  appelons  un  confit  d'oie. 

Ceci  est  tout  personnel,  et  j'admets  que  d'autres  aient  une  im- 
pression toute  diflcrente.  Mais  ce  que  sera  impression  univer- 
selle,  tout  compte  fait,  c'est  que  M.  France  a  bien  de  Tesprit. 
Comme  disait  Bossuet  de  Fenelon,  il  en  a  a  faire  peur. 

Les  D^racines  de  M.  Maurice  Barrds  sont  le  premier  volume 
d'une  serie  qui  sera  composce,  je  crois,  de  trois  romans.  Dans 
ce  grand  ouvrage  M.  Barrds  se  propose  d'ecrire,  sous  forme 
romanesque,  une  veritable  histoire  comtemporaine  psycho- 
logique.  II  voudrait  donner  Tidce  de  ce  qu'est  pr6cis6ment  la 
generation  fran^aise  qui  avait  vingt  ans  en  1880,  qui,  par  con- 
sequent, a  et6  61evee  imm6diatement  apres  notre  diminution 
de  1870,  qui  a  travers<^  la  premiere  partie  de  la  vie  parmi  la 
France  de  Jules  Ferry,  puis  du  g^n^ral  Boulanger,  et  qui 
glisse  maintenant  vers  la  quarantaine. 

Ledessein  est  excellent  ;  car  cette  generation  est  evidemmen 


LE   LIVKE  A   PARIS.  1 57 

toute  diff^rente  de  celle  qui  a  et6  61ev6e  sous  le  Second  Empire, 
et  constitue  absolument  une  nouvelle  France,  analogue  a  celle 
de  1815  a  1830.  Et  cette  nouvelle  France,  c'est  la  France  me  me, 
les  hommes  qui  ont  passe  la  quarantaine  ne  comptant  plus 
guere  dans  une  nation  d6mocratique,  puisqu'ils  ne  pourraient 
compter  que  comme  guides  et  puisque  les  ddmocraties  aiment 
peu  a  etre  guidees. 

La  France  d'apr^s  1870,  voila  done  le  sujet  de  roeuvre 
nouvelle  de  M.  Barres. 

Disons  d'abord  tout  le  mal  qu'il  y  a,  selon  nous,  a  dire  des 
Deracincs  pour  nous  en  ddbarrasser,  ayant  a  en  dire  ensuite 
beaucoup  de  bien.  Le  roman  est  trop  touffu,  trop  surcharge, 
encombr6  de  details  fastidieux  et  en  v6rit6  inutiles  ;  et,  ce  qui 
est  le  plus  grave,  il  pr^sente  sur  le  meme  plan,  avec  une  ^»gale 
complaisance  et  sollicitude  des  choses  de  premiere  impor- 
tance et  des  documents  si  insignifiants  qu'ils  semblent  des 
fonds  de  tiroir  maladroitement  utilises.  II  est,  par  exemple, 
incroyable  que  M.  Barrds  consacre  autant  de  pages  au  portrait 
^i  a  la  biographie  de  M.  Portalis  qu'a  Tinfluence  de  Napoleon 
sur  la  jeunesse  franyaise.  Qui,  diantre,  s'occupe  en  Europe, 
en  France,  a  Paris  et  meme  rue  Montmartre  du  nomme  Por- 
talis ?  De  meme  (quoique  ceci  soit  moins  fastidieux)  parce 
que  M.  Barres  a  dirig^  un  journal  (ou  tout  ce  qu'il  dcrivait 
ctait  excellent,  du  reste,  et  faisait  mon  bonheur  ;  et  jamais  M. 
Barres  n'a  eu  autant  de  talent  que  dans  ce  journal-la),  il  nous 
regale  de  toute  la  cuisine  int^rieure  d'un  journal  parisien  en 
des  pages  innombrables.  Evidemment  ceci,  qui  a  son  int^ret, 
devait  etre  r6sum6,  indiqu6  en  quelques  traits  vifs,  avec  mai- 
trise,  non  6tal6  aussi  surabondamment.  Tranchons  le  mot, 
comme  je  le  tranche  toujours,  ce  volume  est  ^minemment 
tinnuyeux.  II  6tait  possible  qu'il  fut  aussi  documente,  aussi 
instructif  et  moins  somnif^re.  La  derniere  fayon,  celle  qui 
elague,  qui  filtre  et  qui  condense  n'a  pas  ^t^  mise  la.  M. 
Barrfes  a  moins  de  scrupules  d'artiste  qu'autrefois. 

Avec  cela,  c'est  un  livre.     C'est  un  livre  ou  il  y  a  quclque 

chose   et   qui    fait   penser.     Comme    disaient   nos   pcres,  ex- 

cellement,  c'est  un  livre  essentiel.     La  generation   de    1880, 

j'entends  qui  commence  a  exister  intellectuellement  en  1880,  y 

^st  peinte,  assez  vigoureusement,  de  la  fayon  suivante : 


158  COSMOPOLIS. 

Premier  trait :  V inquietude,  Cette  generation  ne  sait  ni  que 
vouloir,  ni  que  penser,  ni  que  sentir.  Ce  n'est  pas  tout  a  fait 
vrai ;  mais  c'est  suffisamment  vrai  pour  pouvoir  etre  dit.  A 
nous,  hommes  du  Second  Empire,  c'a  6t6  le  plus  grand  6tonne- 
ment  de  notre  vie.  Apres  la  paix  de  Francfort,  je  rencontrai  un 
ami  de  qui  les  circonstances  m'avaient  separ6  depuis  un  an. 
Tristes  tous  deux,  bien  entendu  ;  mais  moi  : 
" —  II  y  a  tou jours  ceci  de  bon... 

—  Quoi  done  ? 

—  C'est  que  Tann^e  derni^re  la  France  ne  savait  pas  ce 
qu'elle  voulait.  Maintenant  elle  doit  le  savoir.  La  situation 
morale  est  meilleure  que  Tannic  derniere." 

Eh  bien,  j'en  suis  toujours  pour  ce  que  j'ai  dit,  parce  qu'on 
en  est  toujours  un  peu  pour  ce  qu'on  a  dit  ;  mais  j'ai  eu  un 
demi-d6menti  au  moins.  La  nouvelle  g6n6ration  est  inquiete, 
alors  que  les  circonstances  semblaient,  si  douloureuses  qu'elles 
fussent,  lui  donner  une  magnifique  occasion  de  n'avoir  qu'une 
id6e,  qu'un  sentiment  et  qu'une  passion.  C'est  bien  curieux. 
Le  mal  n'est  pas  trds  profond  :  il  faut  le  dire  parce  que  c'est 
la  v6rite,  mais  c'est  la  v^rit^  qu'il  existe. 

Second  trait  :  la  generation  nouvelle  est  ardemment  ambi- 
tietise.  Ces.jeunes  gens  sont  tous  des  ^i;r/z;/sto,  comme  nous 
disons  sur  le  boulevard,  c'est-a-dire  des  hommes  qui  mettent 
toute  leur  ame  a  parvenir  a  6tre  des  parvenus.  Effet  tout 
naturel  de  I'egalite,  de  la  d6mocratie,  de  la  disparition  defini- 
tive de  toute  classe  priviiegiee.  Parmi  tous  ces  ardents,  le  seul 
personnage  qui  soit  un  id6aliste,  un  artiste,  un  amateur  de 
sensations  fines,  un  homme  (quel  joli  mot,  peignant  d'un  trait 
tout  un  etre  !)  "  qui  aime  la  solitude  et  la  perfection**  est  une 
exception  singulifere  et  I'auteur  I'a  voulu  donner  pour  une 
exception  singulidre. 

C'est  un  bien  et  un  mal  que  cette  impatience  ambitieuse. 
C'est  un  mal,  parce  que  c'est  un  struggle  qui  laisse  un  d6chet, 
qui  laisse  des  cadavres  sur  le  champ  de  bataille,  qui  fait  des 
dedasses  et  meme  des  degrades  de  gens  qui  a  Tdchelon  infe- 
rieur  eussent  et6  des  membres  utiles  de  I'association. — C'est  un 
bien,  parce  que  c'est  le  seul  moyen  de  tirer  de  la  nation  tous 
ceux  qui  peuvent  la  conduire,  I'cclairer,  lui  rendre  des  services 
superieurs.     On  n'en  a  jamais  trop.     L'ambition  est  done  un 


LE   LIVRE   A   PARIS.  159 

patriotisme.  Le  bon  citoyen  doit  etre  ambitieux  avec  une 
reserve  de  resignation  ;  s'^lancer,  de  vingt  a  trente  ans,  vers  les 
sommets,  de  tout  son  courage,  et  puis  rester  assez  sens6  au 
milieu  de  tout  cela  pour  redescendre  a  une  situation  inf^rieure 
et  Taccepter  tranquillement  si  Tepreuve  lui  a  et(J  d6favorable. 

Toujours  est-il  que  la  g^n^ration  actuelle  est  extremement 
ambitieuse,  et  qu'elle  se  distingue  en  cela  infiniment  des 
generations  pr6c6dentes.  Je  sais  tel  homme  de  inon  temps 
qui  est  arrive  trcs  haut,  qui  est  tres  envi6,  qui  est  tout  a  fait 
parmi  les  hommes  de  plus  haute  selection,  et  qui  n'a  pas  eu 
une  minute  d'ambition  dans  toute  sa  vie.  II  est  arriv6  littera- 
lement  malgr6  lui.  Dans  toutes  les  situations  qu'il  occupe  il  a 
€i€  demand^  sans  s'etre  offert.  II  n'y  a  peut-etre  pas  dans  la 
generation  nouvelle  un  homme  semblable  a  cet  original.  II  y 
en  avait  a  foison  dans  la  g6n6ration  pr6c6dente.  Songez,  si 
vous  voulez,  au  chef  actuel  du  minist6re  franyais. 

Troisifeme  trait  :  absence  de  principe  dirigeaiit,  on  incertitude 

sur  le  principe  dirigeant.    Autrefois  les  Fran9ais  6taient  reli- 

gieux  ou  anti-religieux,  et  Dieu  me  garde  de  dire  qu'au  fond 

c'etait  la  meme  chose.    Cependant  la  religion  6tait  un  principe 

<Iirigeant  positif  de  premier  ordre,  et  I'anti-religion   etait   un 

principe  dirigeant  ii^gaiif  assez  fort  encore.     Je   connais   tel 

iiomme,   de  mon  temps  aussi,  qui  est  profond6ment  moral, 

excellent  citoyen,  patriote  ardent,  homme  de  devoir,  tout  cela 

J>arcc  qtiW  est  ath6e.     II  veut  montrer  aux  "clericaux,"  qu'il 

deteste,  qu'on  pent  etre  un  saint  en  6tant  ath^e,  et  qu'on  peut 

^tre  plus  saint  que  les  autres  en  ^tantathee.  Que  voulez-vous  ? 

Cela  le  soutient.     Cela  Texcite.     L'anti-religion  peut  done  etre 

un  principe  dirigeant.     Elle  Ta  6t6  pour  beaucoup  de  Francpais 

^interieurement  a  1870.     De  nos  jours  et  ce  principe  positif 

5i*est  affaibli  et  ce  principe  n^gatif  s'est  extenu6  aussi.     Nos 

jcunes  gens  ne  sont  pas  religieux,   en   general,   et   ils   n'ont 

pas,  non   plus,   la   religion    de  I'anticl^ricalisme.     Ils    sont   a 

I'^gard  de  la  religion  respectueux  et  meme  sympathiques,  sans 

iidh&ion. 

Une  philosophic  a-t-elle  remplac6  pour  eux  ou  la  religion  de 

Bossuet  ou  la  "  religion"  de  Voltaire  ?  Non.  Le  professeur  des 

jeunes  gens  que  M.  Barrts  nous  prcsente  leur  a  enscignc  le 

Kantisme.     Ils  ont  admire  jusqu  a  I'enthousiasme  le  talent  de 


l6o  COSMOPOLIS. 

Icur  professeiir  ;  mais  ils  se  moquenl  du  Kantisme  a  vingt- 
cinq  ans,  avec  tres  peu  d'intelligence,  mais  une  tres  forte 
conviction  negative. 

Deux  hommes  seulement  ont  eii  sur  eux  une  influence  assez 
sensible  :  Napoleon  et  M.Taine.  Dans  Napol6on  ils  admirent 
et  embrassent  "  le  professeur  d'^nergie/'  ce  qui  n'est  pas  trfes 
juste,  car  Napoleon  est  un  exemple  d'6nergie,  je  ne  songe  pas 
a  le  nier,  mais  non  un  professeur  d*6nergie.  Un  professeur 
d'<^nergie,  si  les  mots  ont  un  sens,  est  un  homme  qui  donnc 
une  m6thode  d'6nergie.  Or  pr6cisement  Napol6on  n'en  a  pas 
eu.  Aucune  Anergic  ne  fut  moins  methodique  que  celle 
de  Napoleon.  Un  mediocre  homme  de  bon  sens,  comnie 
Franklin,  serait  meilleur  professeur  d'6nergie  que  le  grand 
empereur.  Mais  nos  jeunes  gens  n'y  regardent  pas  de  si  pres, 
et  c'est  tres  bien  observ6  que  de  nous  les  montrer  n'y  regar- 
dant pas  de  si  pres.  Ils  voient  en  Napoleon  un  miracle 
d'energie  humaine  et  ils  s'excitent  a  Timiter,  et  ils  font  sur  son 
fombeau  le  "serment  d'Annibal  "  de  pratiquer  'Tlmitation  de 
Napoleon,"  comme  dit  M.  La  Jeunesse. 

Quant  a  Hippolyte  Taine,  ils  Tadmirent  parce  qu'une  partie 
de  son  systeme  va  a  glorifier  dans  un  etre  le  d^veloppement 
libre  et  puissant  de  sa  nature.  "  D6veloppez-vous  selon  votre 
loi,  comme  un  bel  arbre."  Taine  aimait  a  dire  cela,  et  cela 
flatte  les  passions  ambitieuses  de  nos  jeunes  gens.  Seulement 
ils  sentent  et  savent  tr^s  bien  que  Taine,  a  travers  cette 
premiere  doctrine  qui  lui  etait  ch^re,  tendait  pour  s'y  arreter 
a  une  autre  doctrine  qui  etait  comme  un  stoicisme-dilettan- 
tisme  :  "  D6veloppez-vous  suivant  votre  loi,  pour  avoir  toute 
votre  force  ;  servez-vous  de  voire  force  pour  subsister,  et  n'en 
abtiscz  pas ;  ce  serait  absurde.  L'existence  assur^e,  il  suflit  ; 
asseyez-vous  et  regardez,  parce  qu'il  y  a  autour  de  vous  des 
choses  tres  belles.  La  est  le  but ;  le  reste  n'est  que  moyen. 
La  contemplation  est  ce  qui  distingue  Thomme  de  la  brute, 
pendant  un  quart  d'heure,  de  temps  en  temps." —  Et  ceci  ne 
plait  plus  autant  aux  jeunes  gens,  qui  se  sentent  par  ceci 
aiguilles  plutot  sur  Marc-Aurele  que  sur  Napoleon. 

Et,  done,  ils  n'ont  aucun  principe  dirigeant,  et  en  sont  a  en 
chercher  un,  en  des  entretiens  philosophiques  souvent  trfes 
curieux,  a  la  maniere  des  jeunes  gens  de  Platon. 


LE   LIVRE   A   PARIS.  l6l 

Eh  bien,  tout  ceci  est  un  tableau  de  la  jeunesse  contempo- 
raine  ou  il  y  a  beaucoup  de  vrai,  auquel  on  peut  croire,  avec 
reserve,  en  se  disant  que  M.  Barrfes  n'a  connu  que  des  jeunes 
gens  surchauff6s  dans  la  grande  usine  parisienne  ;  mais  enfin 
c'est  un  tableau  assez  juste,  et  je  n'ai  pas  besoin  de  dire  qu'il 
est  d'un  extreme  int6r^t  puisqu'on  y  cherche  sans  cesse,  pres- 
que  avec  angoisse,  I'^nigme  dont  demain  dira  le  mot. 

Quant  aux...  je  ne  dirai  pas  conclusions,  le  premier  volume 
d'un  ouvrage  qui  doit  en  compter  trois  n'en  donnant  point... 
quant  aux  tendances  g6n6rales  et  directions  d'id6es  a  relever 
dans  ce  livre,  j'indiquerai  le  chapitre  IX  comme  les  donnant 
toutes.  On  y  voit  bien  que  les  id6es  de  M.  Barr^s  sur  la 
France  contemporaine  sont  celles-ci: 

La  France  est  "  dissociee.*'     Elle  est  compos6e  d'individus  et 
seulement  d'individus.     Et  ces  individus,  qui  plus  est,  et  plus 
grave,  ne  sont  appel6s  a  un  role  actif  et  preponderant  que  s'ils 
viennent  a  Paris  achever  leurs  etudes  et  commencer  leur  vie, 
que  s'ils  sont  "d6racin6s"  a  dix-huit  ans.     II  en  r^sulte  que 
la  France  n'est  pas  une  nation.     Une  nation  n'est  constitute 
que   par  des  groupements   tr6s   solides   subordonn6s  a   une 
direction  g6n6rale.     Ces  groupements,  en   France,  n'existent 
pas.     L'individu  n'y  est  encadr^,  enr6giment6  et  soutenu  par 
renr6gimentation,  que  dans  I'Etat.     C'est  un  cadre  trop  vaste. 
Entre  I'Etat  et  l'individu  il  y  a  trop  de  distance.     Par  suite, 
l'individu  est  trop  isol6  et  se  sent  trop  perdu  dans  le  vaste 
ensemble.     Cela  fait  des  ambitieux  furieux  et  des  d6faillants 
mis6rables.     Ce  qu'il  faudrait,  d'une  fa9on  ou  d'une  autre,  ce 
serait  ces  corps   interm^diaires  entre   I'Etat  et  l'individu,  ou 
l'individu    se    trouve    engren6    sans    cesser    d'etre    libre,    et 
qui   quintuplent    ses   forces    et  qui  contribuent  en  definitive 
au  bon  ordre  et   a   la  force  de   I'Etat.     Ces   corps   interme- 
diaires,  I'ancien    regime   les  a  connus ;    la   France   moderne 
ne  les  connait  pas.     Trfes  differents  de  ce  qu'ils  etaient  sous 
I'ancien  r6gime,  accommod^s  a  la  vie  moderne,   mais  ayant 
tti^mes  avantages  et  pour  l'individu  ct  pour  I'Etat,  il  faudrait 
l^  reconstituer. 

Ces  ideas,  sensiblement  aristocratiques,  renouveiees  de  De 
'Donald  et  de  Taine,  mais  "repensees"  et  presentees  sous  un 
nouveau  jour,  quoique  trop  sommairement,  sont  tellement  les 

VOL.  IZ.^NO.  XXV.  U 


l62  COSMOPOLIS. 

miennes  que  j'ai  comme  une  pudeur  a  dire  qu'elles  sont  justes  ; 
mais  je  ne  puispourtant  pas  dire  qu'elles  sont  fausses.  Inatten- 
dues  de  la  pairt  de  M.  Barrfes,  dont  le  grand  effort  semblait  6tre, 
jusqu'a  ce  jour,  d'exalter  Tindividu,  et  d'affirmer  que  Tin- 
dividu  en  dehors  du  "groupe"  pouvait  6tre  quelque  chose, 
elles  rejoignent  la  doctrine  d'un  trfes  haut  et  trte  original 
penseur,  M.  Darkheim  (voir  Tadmirable  livre  intitul6  Regies  de 
la  Mithode  sociologique),  qui  est  persuade  que  tout  bien  d6sor- 
mais,  en  Europe,  viendra  de  I'association,  et  que  toute  nation 
ou  il  n'y  aura  pas  d'autre  association  que  TEtat  est  destin^e  a 
p6rir. 

En  tous  cas  ce  sont  des  id6es  trfes  '*  considerables,"  aux- 
quelles,  probablement,  les  volumes  qui  suivront  celui-ci 
donneront  tout  leur  d^veioppement,  mais  qui,  d6ja,  marquent 
celui-ci  comme  Tceuvre  d'un  esprit  r^flfichi,  m6ditatif  et 
capable  d'^volution.  Nous  recommandons  tr^s  s6rieusement 
le  present  volume  et  nous  attendons  les  suivants  avec  plus 
d'impatience  que  nous  n'avions  accoutume  de  faire  les  li\Tes 
de  M.  Barrfes. 

Et,  p6riodiquement,  sans  me  lasser,  je  reviens  a  nos  pofetes. 
J'ai  tellement  le  d6sir  ardent  qu'il  en  surgisse  un,  meme  de 
second  ordre,  mdme  de  la  force  seulement  d'Alfred  de  Musset, 
— car  vous  n'ignorez  pas  que  Musset  a  6t(^  d(^clar6  mediocre 
par  une  sorte  de  plebiscite  de  la  litt^rature  fran^aise  contem- 
poraine — j'ai  tellement  le  d6sir  qu'il  en  naisse  un,  et  je  suis 
si  parfaitement  persuade  qu'il  en  naitra  un  en  eflfet ! 

Car  jamais,  en  France,  un  tiers  de  sidcle  ne  s'est  passe 
sans  qu'un  pofete  au  moins  trds  distingue  ne  se  manifestat. 
La  periode  la  plus  sterile  en  poesie  que  la  France  ait  comptee 
ne  va  que  de  Jean-Baptiste  Rousseau  a  Andre  Chenier,  et 
encore  dans  I'intervalle  Voltaire  regnait,  qui  pent,  aprfes  tout, 
si  Ton  y  met  quelque  bonne  volontc,  passer  pour  un  poete. 

Done  le  xix*  sitcle  ne  perira  pas,  qu'on  n'ait  vu,  avant  sa 
mort,  se  dresser  le  poete  qui  honorera  la  France  au  xx«.  II 
s'agit  de  ne  point  s'y  tromper,  et  de  le  saluer  a  sa  naissance. 
Lisons  done  attentivement  tous  les  essais  de  ceux  qui  ont  la 
tres  noble  ambition  d'etre  ce  pofete-la.  C'est  ce  que  nous 
allons  continuer  de  faire  ensemble. 


LIVRE   A    PARIS.  163 

Les  Hautaines  de  M.  Marcel  RouflF  sont  des  616gies  d'amour 
ccrites  dans  le  syst^me  de  versification  adopts  par  un  grand 
nombre   de  pofetes  contemporains,   c'est-a-dire  en   vers    trfe^ 
libres,  qui  ressemblent  trfes  souvent  a  de  la  prose  rythm6e. 
On  sait  que  je  ne  suis  nullement  hostile  a  ce  genre  de  ver- 
sification   ou    de    prosification.     Qu'il   y  ait   quelque    chose 
d'interm6diaire  entre  les  vers  et  la  prose,  qu'il  ne  soit  plus  vrai 
que  "  tout  ce  qui  n'est  pas  prose  est  vers  et  que  tout  ce  qui  n'est 
pas  vers  est  prose,"  cela  pent  faire  de  la  peine  au  professeur 
du  Bourgeois  gentilhomme ;  mais  je  ne  suis   ni   assez  gentil- 
homme   ni   assez  bourgeois   ni   assez   professeur   pour    m'en 
formaliser  outre  mesure.   Je  voudrais  seulement  que  I'adoption 
de  ce  "vers  libre"  ne  parut  jamais  6tre,  ne  put  jamais  dtre 
soup9onn6e  d'etre  une  impuissance. 

Pour  que  ce  soup9on  ne   puisse   pas   naitre   11    suffit   que 

1  auteur  ait  du  talent.     On   n'avait   presque   point,   avant  La 

Fontaine,  6crit  en   vers  d'in^gale   mesure,  en  "vers   m^l6s," 

comme    on   disait  alors.     La   Fontaine   inventa   presque    ce 

genre.     Pour  beaucoup,  6videmment,  il  passa  comme  I'ayant 

cr66.   Ce  fut  un  innovateur.    Personne,  que  je  sache,  ne  s'avisa 

d'insinuer,   ni  m6me   de  croire,  que  c'6tait  parce  qu'il  6tait 

incapable  d'6crire  en  vers  r6guliers.     C'est  qu'il  avait  un  talent 

parfaitement  sensible  a  tout  le  monde. 

Et  personne,  non  plus,  ne  soup9onnera  M.  Marcel  RouflF 
d' impuissance.     D'abord  parce  qu'il  6crit  en  beaux  alexandrins 
continus,  soutenus  et  r6guliers,  quand  il  veut.     Exemple  sa 
Didicace : 

O  mes  morts,  c'est  pour  vous  que  mon  coeur  se  recueille : 

C'est  pour  toi,  mon  passe  si  lointain  et  si  doux, 

Que  j'ai  cueilli,  parmi  la  bruyere  et  les  houx, 

Ce  bouquet,  qu'aujourd'hui  pieusemcnt  j'effeuille. 

Vous  avez  les  senteurs  qu'ont  les  roses  fletries, 

Quand,  aux  derniers  beaux  jours,  mourant  dans  les  verj^ers, 

EUes  nous  font  rever  aux  baisers  vendanges 

Un  soir  d'adieu,  parmi  les  chemins  des  prairies. 

Ensuite  parce  que,  dans  tout  son  volume,  il  y  a,  sinon  tou- 
jours  un  talent  trfes  stir  et  experiments,  du  moins  toujours  un 
Hun  trfcs  vif  sentiment  po6tique.  Trfes  fortement  6mu  et 
P^n4tr6  de  Verlaine,  ce  pofete  si  terriblement  in6gal,  qui  n  a 


164  COSMOPOLIS. 

peut'Stre  pas  fail  deux  cents  bons  vers  dans  sa  vie,  mais  qui 
6tait  absolument  exquis  lorsqu'il  6tait  bon,  M.  Marcel  Rouff 
trouve  quelquefois  de  ces  savantes  nonchalances  de  rythme 
qui  nous  6taient  comme  une  volupt6  physique  quand  nous 
lisions  certains  couplets  de  son  maitre  : 

J'ai  mis  Tame  de  nos  vieux  r^ves 
Dans  un  piano,  le  long  des  graves. 

Ainsi,  parfois, 
Le  vent,  sur  les  touches  d'ivoire, 
Revient  rememorer  I'histoire 

De  TAiitrefois. 


Lorsque  les  roses  sont  ecloses 
II  chante  les  valses  moroses 

Du  lointain  bal ; 
Des  menuets  et  des  gavottes 
Et  des  romances  si  vieillottes 

Qu'elles  font  mal. 

Puis,  lorsque  s'alanguit  Tantomne, 
Cicmit  I'andante  monotone 
Des  amours  las 


Et  puis,  enfin,  cesse  la  brise, 
Vous  repassez  dans  I'ombre  grise. 

Jours  revolus  ; 
Mais,  attard6  sur  une  vague, 
Un  souffle  fait  chanter  tris  vague 

Un  angelus. 


M.  Marcel  Rouff  a  peu  de  souffle.  11  a  des  d6buts  de  pifec^ 
trfes  heureux,  et  puis  il  fl^chit.  II  sait  commencer  comm^ 
ceci : 

O  triste  et  cher  amour,  que  n'allons  nous  ensemble 
Rever,  en  nous  parlant,  par  les  chemins  ombreux  ? 
Sur  les  buisssons  de  houx  le  soir  descend  et  tremble  : 
Dans  les  chemins  converts  que  n'allons  nous  tons  deux  ?... 

Et  puis,  dame,  le  reste  de  la  pitee  est  bien  un  peu  faiblet,  poui^ 
ne  pas  dire  faible.  Mais,  enfin,  si  je  m'attarde  un  peu  a  c^ 
volume,  c'est  qu'il  contient  un  pofeme  symbolique  (du  rest^ 
trfes  clair)  a  qui  il  ne  manque  pas  grand'chose  pour  6tre  un  petiC: 
chef-d'oeuvre,  et  qui,  au  moins,  est  une  impression  d'un^ 
rjivissante  m61ancolie : 


L£   LIVRE  A  PARIS.  165 

Et  c'etait  le  vieux  parc'qu'elle  connut —  ma  vie — 
Le  vieux  pare  du  Passe,  decor  de  la  feerie 
Du  vieux  amour,  et  que.les  soirs  ont  tant  jauni ; 
C'etait  le  vieux  pare  lourd  des  ruines  des  statues, 
Le  pare  de  jadis,  ou  les  sources  se  sont  tues, 
Ou  I'eau  dort  ligce  en  les  vasques  de  granit. 

C'etait  le  pare  ou  sont  les  corbcilles  decloses, 
Ou  s'effondra  I'enclos  des  roses  si  moroses, 
C*6tait  le  pare  enfin  des  passes  oublies ; 
C'etait  le  pare  ou  rien  de  jadis  ne  demeurc. 
Seuls  se  meurent  encore  au  seuil  de  la  demeurc 
Les  bouquets  en  le  dernier  adieu  delies. 

Et  des  femmes,  pourtant,  graves  et  taciturnes, 
Fassaient,  ayant  pose  sur  I'epaule  leurs  urnes  ; 
Des  femmes  encore  plus  graves  qu'en  I'autrefois  ; 
Et  c'etaient,  les  pieds  nus  et  las  dans  les  verveines. 
La  th^orie,  helas  !  des  chimdres,  si  vaines. 
En  marche  vers  le  puits  du  passe,  dans  les  bois. 


Puis  au  verger,  dont  la  terrasse  suit  les  greves. 
Vers  les  tombes  ou  sont  I'Ame  de  nos  vieux  reves, 
Haineuses  de  sentir  des  parfums  inconnus, 
EUes  ont  saccage,  ces  chimeres  jalouses, 
Les  couronnes  des  morts  et  les  fleurs  des  pclouscs 
Et  sur  ces  vieux  tombeaux  ont  pose  leurs  pieds  nus. 

Le  soir  maintenant  s'accoude  au  choses  Hetries, 
Et  la  riviere  dont  les  eaux  etaient  fleuries, 
N'a  plus  que  la  rousseur  des  gazons  repandus 
Et  bruits  en  automne,  et  les  tristes  colombes 
Qui  grapillaient  encor  par  mi  I'ombre  des  tombes 
Au-dcssus  du  verger  ont  des  vols  eperdus. 

Je  n'aime  gufere  certaines  manies  que  M.  Marcel  Rouff  a 
-Hiprunt6es  a  Verlaine,  les  consonances  trfes  rapprochces 
**  roses  si  moroses  " —  "  meurent  dans  la  demeure  ")  ;  je  n'aime 
Jufere  non  plus  la  manifere  dont  M.  Rouff,  quelquefois,  compte 
^^ssyllabes,  et  jamais  pour  moi  piano  ne  sera  de  deux  syllabes,  ni 
^iines  de  deux  syllabes  6galement.  Meme  dans  la  conversation 
^^  plus  rapide  nous  pronon9ons  pi-a-no.  Musset  lui-meme 
^ui  aimait  fondre  deux  syllabes  en  une  seule,  et  qui  6crivait  cet 
^lexandrin  dou6  a  mon  sens  de  quatorze  syllabes  : 

O  Mar/u  Kelic7<i,  le  peintic  et  Ic  poctc... 


l66  COSMOPOLIS. 

n'en  disait  pas  moins,  conform^ment  a  I'usage  g^n^ral  : 

Le  soir,  tout  pr^  de  vous,  j'ecoute  au  pi-a-no, 
Chanter  sur  le  clavier  vos  mains  harmonieuses... 

Quant  a  ruines^  jamais  un  po6te  fran^ais  ne  Ta  fait  de  deux 
syllabes,  et  dans  la  conversation,  non  seulement  nous  faisons 
sentir  les  trois  syllabes,  mais  il  nous  serait  difficile  de 
prononcer  tr^s  nettement  en  deux  seulement. 

Et  ces  critiques  de  detail  ne  m'emp^chent  ni  de  declarer  ni 
de  sentir  que  M.  Marcel  Rouflf  est  trfes  bien  dou6  comme 
pofete. 

Emile  Faguet. 


^ 


LE    THEATRE   A    PARIS. 

(Septembre,  Octobre,  Novembre.) 


A  la  Porte  St-Marti\  :  La  Mori  de  Hoche,  drame  en  neuf  tableaux,  do 
M.  Paul  D^roulede. — Au  Gymnase  :  Les  Irois  Filles  de  M.  Duponf,  comedic 
en  quatre  actes,  de  M.  Brieux. — A  la  Comedie-Franqaise  :  Tristan  dc 
Leonois,  drame  en  sept  tableaux,  en  vers,  de  M.  Paul  Deroulede. — ^Au 
Theatre-Libre  :  Le  Repas  du  Lion,  pidce  en  quatre  actes,  de  M.  Frangoi* 
de  Curel  ;  Le  Bien  d'Autrui,  comedie  en  trois  actes,  de  M.  Emile  Fabre. — 
Jalousey  Medor,  Peiites  Folks. 

La  saison  dramatique  s'annonce  tr6s  bien.  Parmi  les  huit  ou 
dix  pifeces  nouvelles  que  nous  avons  d6ja  vues,  deux  sont  tout 
a  fait  remarquables,  et  c'est  les  Trois  Filles  de  M.  Dupont^  et 
c'est,  encore  plus,  le  Repas  du  Lion  ;  deux  sont  m^diocres,  et 
ce  sont  pr6cis6ment  celles  qui  appartiennent  au  genre  le  plus 
"noble";  mais  les  autres  ne  sont  point  sans  m6rite,  et  elles 
nous  ont  plu,  soit  par  Tobservation,  soit  par  la  fantaisie,  soit 
par  le  melange  de  Tune  et  de  Tautre. 

La  Mort  de  Hoche  est  une  biographie  dramatique.  Ce  genre 
est  difficile  :  en  I'absence  d'une  intrigue  continue  et  qui  relie 
les  tableaux  entre  eux,  il  veut  beaucoup  de  mouvement  et 
d'invention  dans  le  detail.  Or,  des  neuf  tableaux  qui  composent 
la  Mort  de  Hoche,  deux  ou  trois  seulement  ont  paru  vivants. 
C'est  quelque  chose  ;  ce  n'est  pas  assez. 

Je  dois  dire  pourtant  que  M.  D6roul6de  avait  con^u  le 
personnage  de  Hoche  d'une  fa9on  assez  originale  et  forte. 
D'un  seul  mot,  il  a  fait  de  Hoche  le  h^ros  de  la  16galit6.  II 
nous  a  cont6  Thistoire  des  soumissions  et  des  resignations  de 
Hoche.  II  a  pr6t6  au  jeune  general  republicain  un  senti- 
ment d'abn6gation  qui  s'est  6videmment  rencontr6  chez  les 
hommes    les    meilleurs    de     cette    epoque,   tout   nourris    de 


1 68  CbSMOPOLIS. 

beaux  exemples  de  vertu  antique,  d'immolation  de  Tindividu 
a  la  cite.  Cette  force  d'ob^ir  quand  m^me,  ils  la  puisaient 
dans  Tamour  idolatre  et  mystique  de  la  Revolution.  C'6tait 
elle  qui  avait,  en  leur  faveur,  et  comme  d'un  coup  de 
baguette,  transform^  le  monde.  Elle  avait  apport6  a  leur 
adolescence  des  heures  sublimes.  Elle  les  avait  faits  libres, 
et  elle  les  avait  faits  grands.  C'est  par  elle  que  Lazare  Hoche 
etait  g6n6ral  en  chef  a  vingt-six  ans  :  il  lui  devait  bien, 
en  retour,  quelque  sacrifice...  Je  crois  qu'il  6tait  facile  d'im- 
pressionner  profond6ment  un  homme  comme  lui,  candide, 
s6rieux,  religieusement  6mu  du  miracle  de  sa  propre  destin6e, 
en  lui  parlant  au  nom  de  la  Revolution,  qu'il  arrivait  sans 
doute  a  concevoir  un  peu  comme  une  personne,  comme  une 
myst6rieuse  d^esse,  comme  une  s^v^re  Sainte-Vierge... 

Mais  tout  a  coup  le  caractere  du  h6ros  s'eflondre.  On 
comprend  qu'ayant  subi  la  Terreur,  il  soit  recalcitrant  a  la 
R^publiquethermidorienne;  que,  ayant  accepts,  sans  trop  com- 
prendre,  la  R6publique  impitoyable,  mais  austere,  toute  sa 
purete  se  souldve  contre  la  R6publique  d6bauch6e  et  agioteuse. 
Mais  on  comprend  peu  qu'il  ne  conspire  pas  jusqu'au  bout, 
puisque  a  ce  moment  la  conspiration  est  pour  lui  le  plus  saint 
des  devoirs.  On  ne  comprend  ni  son  6croulement  devant 
une  accusation  calomnieuse,  ni  son  suicide,  decide  en  cinq 
minutes. 

De  Tristan  de  LconoiSf  je  ne  dirai  rien,  sinon  que  c'est  une 
espece  de  livret  d'op6ra,  trfes  moUement  6crit,  et  bien  superflu 
quand  on  songe  au  pofeme  de  Wagner.  Je  rappellerai  seule- 
ment  que  M.  Armand  Silvestre  fut,  il  y  a  trente  ans,  un  grand 
pofete  lyrique,  consacr6  par  George  Sand. 

• 

La  com6die  de  M.  Alfred  Capus  est  du  plus  consolant 
optimisme.  Les  deux  "petites  foUes"  ne  le  sont  que  par 
esprit  d'imitation,  et  elles  s'arretent,  facilement  corrig6es, 
bien  avant  la  faute.  A  vrai  dire,  les  deux  ''petites  foUes" 
tiennent  peu  de  place  dans  cette  simple  fable  ;  mais  on  y  voit 
deux  maris  diversement  et  exquisement  philosophes,  et  une 
histoire  de  duel  d'unc  observation  bien  juste  et  bien  fine,  et 
d'une  drolerie  impayable.     L'action  n'est  que  de  vaudeville 


LE  THEATRE   A   PARIS.  1 69 

mais  les  personnages  sont  de  com6die.  Et  le  dialogue  est 
infiniment  spirituel. 

falouse,  aussi,  est  une  ^com^die  honnete  et  piquante.  Elle 
rappelle  les  plus  aimables  pieces  du  "  Theatre  de  Madame." 
Une  id6e  morale,  toute  simple,  y  est  d6velopp6e  en  une  in- 
trigue ing6nieuse.  Une  petite  femme,  jalouse  de  son  mari 
jusqu'a  la  d6mence,  se  rdfugie  chez  ses  dignes  parents,  qui  la 
gu6rissent  de  son  vilain  d^faut  par  un  artifice  plein  de  bon- 
homie. On  reconnait,  dans  Tagencement  de  Taction,  Tinfailiible 
main  de  I'auteur  des  Surprises  du  Divorce,  comme  on  reconnait 
a  chaque  instant,  dans  le  dialogue,  sa  cordiale  gait6  d'excellent 
homme. 

Le  Bien  d'Autrui,  de  M.  Emile  Fabre,  est  une  oeuvre  plus 
s6rieuse.  C'est  Texpos^  dramatique  d'un  cas  de  conscience, 
de  celui  qui  est  formula  et  d6battu  par  Diderot  dans  VEntre- 
lien  d'un  P^re  avec  ses  En/ants.  Un  petit  bourgeois,  Denis 
Roger,  ayant  h6rit6  d'un  parent  que  Ton  croyait  mort  intestat, 
d6couvre  un  testament  qui  le  d6sh6rite.  II  s'agit  d'imaginer 
les  circonstances  qui  peuvent  lui  rendre  le  plus  p6nible  le 
devoir  de  la  restitution.  Le  m6rite  et  aussi  le  d6faut  de  la 
pifece,  c'est  que  la  conception  des  personnages  et  Tinvention 
de  tous  les  details  sont  entidrement  *' commandoes "  par  ce 
dessein.  Denis  Roger,  dans  son  intransigeance  que  rien  ne 
trouble,  tourne  a  Tabstrait  :  ce  petit  employ^  n'est  plus  un 
homme,  c'est  un  '*  commandement  de  Dieu "  qui  remue  des 
bras  6perdus  el  courts.  A  cette  simplification  morale  de 
Denis  Roger  r6pond  celle  des  membres  de  sa  famille.  Tout 
en  parlant  avec  v6rit6,  ils  ne  se  distinguent  presque  pas  entre 
eux,  n'ont  d'autre  caractOre  que  d'etre  6galement  ;cupides  et 
egalement  inconscients  de  leur  malhonnStetO. — D'ou  une  im- 
pression g6n6rale  d'exactitude,  d'harmonie  constructive,  mais 
aussi  de  froideur. 

On  peut  constater  ici,  une  fois  plus,  la  fin  de  la  dernifere 
forme  du  naturalisme,  de  ce  que  M.  Francisque  Sarcey  n'a 
pas  craint  d'appeler  le  genre  "  rosse  "  (mot  vilain,  mais  irrem- 
pla9able).  Aux  temps  h6roiques  du  Th6atre-Libre,  il  est 
clair  que  la  probit6  de  Denis  Roger  n'eut  pas  tenu  jusqu'au 
bout  contre  les  assauts  de  sa  femme,  de  ses  filies  et  de  ses 
gendres. — Pareillement,  dans  cette  vive  et  divertissante  come- 


1 70  COSMOPOLIS. 

die  de  M^dor,  il  est  clair  que,  il  y  a  dix  ans,  le  pauvre  Valuche, 
opprim6  par  Bondaine,  n'eut  tent^^que  de  vaines  r6voltes  et 
eut  finalement  accepts  le  partage  de  tout,  y  compris  sa  femme, 
avec  son  jovial  et  encombrant  ami.  On  pourrait,  comme  Ta 
fait  astucieusement  M.  Brieux  pour  -Blanchette,  refaire  a  toutes 
les  pieces  de  Tancien  Theatre-Libre  des  denouements  opti- 
mistes  et  moraux ;  et,  ainsi  remaniees,  elles  plairaient  autant 
qu'elles  ont  plu,  le  vent  ayant  tourn6. 

« 

Arrivons  aux  deux  "  gros  morceaux  "  du  trimestre. 

La  nouvelle  piece  de  M.  Brieux,  les  Trois  Filles  dcM,  Duponi, 
est,  a  mon  sens,  la  meilleure  qu'il  ait  faite  jusqu'ici,  la  moins 
didactique  de  forme,  la  plus  riche  d'observation  et  la  plus 
6mouvante.  Le  sujet  est  grand  et  d'un  int6r6t  vital :  c'est  k 
savoir  ce  qu'il  advient  des  filles  pauvres  dans  la  bourgeoisie 
contemporaine,  ou  nos  odieuses  moeurs  ne  permettent  point 
aux  jeunes  filles  de  se  marier  sans  dot.  Or  il  advient  ceci :  ou 
elles  tournent  mal,  ou  elles  ne  se  marient  pas,  ou  elles  se 
marient  mal. 

M.  Dupont,  petit  imprimeur  de  province,  a  trois  filles  : 
Angfele,  Caroline  et  Julie.  Angdle  a  fait  jadis  une  faute ; 
chass^e  par  son  pdre  "a* cause  du  monde,"  elle  m^ne  a  Paris 
la  vie  galante.  Caroline,  mont^e  en  graine,  se  desseche  dans  une  :=l 
devotion  etroite  et  triste.  Julie,  elle,  n'a  que  vingt»ans,  et  elle 
est  charmante.  11  s'agit  de  lui  trouver  un  mari.  Justement, 
M.  Mairaut,  petit  banquier  dont  les  affaires  ne  vont  guferc:^  c 
mieux  que  celles  de  M.  Dupont,  cherche  une  femme  pour  soL^Kin 
fils  Antonin. 

C'est  ici  que  le  mariage  bourgeois  apparait  dans  toute  so  n 
abomination.  Les  entrevues  ou  se  n^gocie  Tunion  de  Jul^Se 
et  d'Antonin  nous  font  voir  des  merveilles  de  mensonge  et  ^==>e 
basse  rouerie.  Et,  comme  leurs  parents,  les  jeunes  ge«ms 
mentent,  se  trompent  Tun  Tautre  en  aflfectant  des  sentimerm.  Is 
et  des  gouts  qu'ils  n'ont  pas. — Le  mariage  se  fait,' i pour  ^^ 
defaire  bientot,  ne  reposant  que  sur  le  mensonge.  I--^^ 
Dupont  et  les*  Mairaut  ddcouvrent  qu'ils  se  sont  mutuellem^^^^ 
''rouies."  Les  scenes  affreuses  que  se  font  les  parents  ^^ 
repercutent   dans   le  manage  des  enfants.     Julie,   surtout^        ^^ 


L£  THEATRE  A   PARIS.  171 

rend   nettement  compte  qu'elle  n'aime  pas  son  mari  et  qu'elle 
ne  sera  jamais  heureuse. 

La  pifece  n'6tait,  jusqu'a  cet  endroit,  qu'une  bonne  com6die  de 
plates  moeurs  bourgeoises.  Or  une  scfene  6clate  ici,  belle  en  soi, 
et  ra^me  admirable,  mais  a  laquelle  nous  ne  nous  attendions 
gufere.  II  semble  que  I'auteur,  impressionn6  par  ce  qu'il  y 
a  de  f6minisme  dans  I'air  et  piqu6  d'emulation  par  les  derniers 
tableaux  qu'on  nous  a  traces  de  la  bataille  des  sexes,  s'est  dit  : 
"  Je  ferai  plus  fort  que  les  Tenailles,  que  la  Lot  de  I'homme, 
et  que  la  VassaleJ*  Et  il  Ta  fait. —  Julie  et  Antonin,  qui  nous 
ont  6t6  pr^sent^s  comme  des  ^tres  fort  m6diocres,  se  r6vfelent 
tout  a  coup,  dans  Texplication  passionn^e  qu'ils  ont  ensemble, 
singuliferement  perspicaces  et  intelligents.  Le  mensonge  de 
leur  union,  et  aussi  le  je  ne  sais  quoi  de  myst^rieux  qui  peut 
s6parer  irr6vocablement  le  mari  et  la  femme,  Julie  le  d6couvre  et 
le  d6nonce  avec  la  hardiesse  la  plus  precise  et  dans  un  haut-le- 
coeur  moral,  qui  est  d6ja  un  commencement  de  renovation.  Et, 
chose  6tonnante,  le  banal  Antonin,  secou6  par  cette  audacieuse 
confession,  comprend  a  son  tour.  II  reconnait  que  leur  mariage 
ne  fut  qu'un  march6  d61oyal ;  mais  il  6tablit  nettement  que 
Julie  y  eut  sa  part  de  responsabilit6.  Elle  en  convient,  et 
ainsi  tous  deux  s'avouent  coupables,  et  dfes  lors  nous  croyons 
voir  que  leur  malentendu  n'est  pas  sans  remede ;  que  tous 
deux  valent  d6ji  mieux,  qu'ils  sont  tres  prfes  de  se  comprendre 
mutuellement  et,  par  suite,  de  se  pardonner  et  peut-etre  de 
s'aimer. 

Mais,  a  peine  M.  Brieux  les  a-t-il  port6s  a  cette  hauteur  qu'il 
les  laisse  retomber  dans  leur  bassesse  originelle.  Julie  ayant 
laiss6  6chapper  :  "  Si  au  moins  j'avais  un  enfant  1 "  Antonin, 
a  notre  grande  surprise,  redevient  le  pleutre  injurieux  qu'il 
6tait  avant  sa  confession,  et  proclame  grossiferement  son 
horreur  de  la  paternity.  Et  Julie  songe  d'abord  a  s'enfuir ; 
mais,  un  peu  aprfes,  elle  se  r6signera  a  son  triste  mari,  en  se 
promettant  de  prendre  un  amant.  Et  ainsi  nous  retrouvons 
les  deux  etres  m6diocres  qu'on  nous  avait  d'abord  fait  connaitre ; 
mais,  vraiment,  pendant  un  quart  d'heure,  on  nous  les  avait 
changes. 

Que  si  M.  Brieux,  apr^s  les  avoir  hausses  dc  cette  sorte,  les 
ravale   ensuite  a  ce   point,    c'est   qu'il    avait    une    idee.       11 


172  COSMOPOLIS. 

songeait  a  sa  grande  scfene  romantique  du  quatrieme 
acte.  S'il  n'a  pas  voulu  que  Julie  et  Antonin  fussent  r6concili6s 
dans  la  douleur  de  ieur  confession,  c'est  qu'il  s'6tait  mis  en 
tete  (le  faire  precher  la  sagesse  a  la  soeur  mal  marine  et  a  la 
soeur  d6vote...  par  qui  ?  par  la  soeur  courtisane  :  et  qu'il  6tait 
r6solu  de  sacrifier  tout  a  ce  beau  dessein. 

Done  Angfele,  la  so^ur  qui  a  mal  tourn6,  rappel6e  de  Paris  par 
la  mort  d'une  tante,  trouve  ses  deux  soeurs  dans  les  larmes. 
Caroline,  la  devote,  vient  d'etre  cruellement  d69ue  dans  le 
secret  amour  qu'elle  nourrissait  pour  un  vieux  maniaque, 
employ^  dans  I'imprimerie  ;  et,  du  coup,  elle  cesse  de  croire 
en  Dieu.  Julie  d6sesp6ree,  dit  qu'elle  veut  quitter  son  mari, 
vivre  seule  de  son  travail.  '*  Ah  !  ma  pauvre  enfant !  dit 
rex-d6vote,  ne  fais  pas  cela.  Si  tu  savais  ! "  Et  elle  raconte 
ses  souffrances  et  la  d6tresse  de  son  coeur.  Vraiment  c'est 
encore  Angfele  qui  a  choisi  la  meilleure  part.  "  H^las  !  si  vous 
saviez  ! "  fait  a  son  tour  la  fille  galante  ;  et  elle  dit  les  dugouts 
et  les  affres  de  son  metier  de  joie.  Peut-^tre,  ici,  I'auteur 
semble-t-il  trop  persuade  que  les  femmes  galantes  sont 
g6n6ralement  des  personnes  tres  tristes  au  fond,  et  capables 
d'infinies  d61icatesses  morales,  et  que  la  devotion  des  vieilles 
fiUes  n'est  jamais  qu'une  duperie  de  Ieur  cceur  et  de  leurs  sens. 
Mais  la  scene  n'est  pas  sans  grandeur.  La  sage  courtisane, 
navr6e  elle-meme,  exhorte  la  triste  epouse  et  la  triste  vierge 
a  la  resignation.  Et  la  plainte  des  trois  soeurs  se  prolonge  en 
couplets  altern^s.  Et  ainsi  la  pi^ce,  commenc6e  presque  en 
vaudeville,  un  moment  continu6e  en  drame,  finit  en  lamenta- 
tion d'apocalypse. 

Mais,  telle  qu'elle  est,  elle  est  singuliferement  vivante  et  comme 
foisonnante.  Le  talent  de  M.  Brieux  grandit  d'ann6e  en 
ann6e ;  et  il  me  plait  de  plus  en  plus,  parce  que  ce  n'est  un 
talent  ni  d'humaniste  ni  d'auteur  mondain,  et  qu'il  s'y  trouve, 
a  la  fois,  de  ring6nuit6  et  de  la  p6n6tration,  de  la  probit6  et  de 
la  malice,  du  r^alisme  et  de  I'ideologie,  du  bonhomme  Richard 
et  du  Schopenhauer.     C'est  tr6s  curieux. 


M.  Fran9ois  de  Curel  a  ecrit  les  pieces  les  plus  singulieres 
ct,  en  un  sens,  les  plus  fortes  de  ces  derniers  temps  :  VEnvers 


LE  THEATRE   A   PARIS.  I73 

d*une  Sainte,  les  Fossiles,  VImnUe,  V Amour  brode,  la  Nouvelle 
Idole,  la  Figurante.  C'est  un  psychologue  subtil  et  puissant, 
c'est  un  orateur,  et  c'est  un  poete.  Et  je  ne  sais  comment  tout 
ce  la  ensemble  ne  fait  qu'un  auteur  dramatique  intermittent. 

II  y  a  dans  le  Repas  du  Lion,  mdl6e  a  un  drame  social  impar- 
fait  et  subitement  tronqu6,  une  admirable  histoire  d'ame  que 
voici  en  quelques  mots  : 

Jean  de  Sancy,  un  enfant  de  quinze  ans,  impressionnable, 
ardent,  g6n6reux,  orgueilleux,  passionn^,  n'aime  que  son 
chateau,  sa  foret  et  ses  chasses.  II  a  vu  avec  d6pit,  avec 
colfere,  son  pfere  s'associer  a  des  industriels  pour  I'exploitation 
d'une  mine  d^couverte  dans  son  domaine,  et  sa  soeur  6pouser 
I'ing^nieur  Georges  Boussard,  trte  hardi,  tr^s  intelligent,  trfes 
pratique, — un  "  homme  moderne." —  Une  nuit,  en  ouvrant  une 
6cluse,  Jean  inonde  la  mine,  qu'il  croyait  vide  a  cette  heure-la. 
Mais  un  ouvrier  6tait  rest6  au  fond  des  galeries.  On  rapporte 
son  cadavre  ;  et  Jean,  boulevers6  de  repentir  (sans  toutefois 
avouer  sa  faute),  jure  de  se  vouer  au  service  des  ouvriers. — 
Tout  ce  prologue  est  merveilleux  de  couleur  et  extr^mement 
tragique. 

Nous  retrouvons  Jean  quinze  ans  aprfes.  U  a  tenu  son  ser- 
ment.  II  consacre  tous  ses  revenus  a  I'organisation  de  cercles 
d'ouvriers  et  de  soci6t6s  de  secours,  et  va  prdcher  partout  le 
social  isme  chr6tien  et  la  solution  de  toutes  les  questions  6co- 
nomiques  par  I'Evangile.  II  est  illustre  par  ses  oeuvres  et  par 
son  Eloquence,  dont  il  se  grise  tout  le  premier.  Mais  il  n'est 
pas  heureux  ni,  dans  le  fond,  content  de  lui.  Certes,  il  joue 
consciencieusement  le  role  qu'il  s'est  impos6  ;  mais  il  sent  que 
c'est  un  role,  qu'il  croit  trop  faiblement  ce  qu'il  pr^che,  que  la 
vraie  et  simple  charity  lui  manque,  et  qu'il  n'a  rien  du  tout 
d'un  Saint-Vincent-de-Paul.     Et  il  est  fort  troubl6. 

Les  rudes  et  fiers  discours  de  son  beau-frfere  Georges  Bous- 
sard achevent  son  d&arroi  moral.  Boussard  met  le  doigt  sur 
la  plaie  du  faux  apotre.  "  Votre  d^vouement,  lui  dit-il  en 
substance,  vous  a  valu,  a  vous,  plus  de  gloire  et  de  jouissances 
d'orgueil  qu'elle  n'a  apport6  de  soulagement  et  de  lumifere  a 
vos  clients.  Vous  avez  grandi  par  eux,  sinon  a  leurs  d6pens. 
Car  qui  aide  les  autres  s'616ve  par  la  m^me  au-dessus  d'eux. 
Au  fond,  vous  fetes  un  ^goiste.     Moi  aussi.     Mais  il  y  a  deS) 


i 


174  C08MOPOLI8. 

6goismes  st6riles  et  il  y  en  a  de  f6conds.  Je  travaille,  je  fonde, 
je  transforme  tout  un  pays.  Et  tandis  que  je  ne  songe  qu'a 
etre  puissant,  je  nourris  des  milliers  d'hommes,  ce  que  vos 
phrases  ni  memes  vos  aumones  ne  feront  jamais.  Rien  qu'en 
d6veloppant  ma  force,  j'ouvre  des  voies  nouvelles  a  I'activit^ 
humaine,  et  je  cr6e  et  j'alimente  la  vie  autour  de  moi.  C'est 
une  charit6  plus  sure  que  celle  qui  s'emploie  a  consoler  les 
hommes  de  la  vie.  L'homme  fort,  le  h6ros,  YUebermann  est 
n6cessairement  bienfaisant."  Cette  conversation  est  une  des 
choses  les  plus  doquentes  que  j'aie  entendues  ;  et  T^loquence 
en  est  precise  avec  6clat,  et  d'une  magnifique  plenitude.  —  Ici, 
malheureusement,  se  termine  la  partie  sup6rieure  du  drame  de 
M.  de  Curel. 

Sous  la  parole  r6v61atrice  de  Georges,  Jean  de  Sancy  s'est 
apergu  qu'il  s'6tait  donn6  un  caractfere  d'emprunt.  II  a  re- 
trouv6  son  temp<^rament  primitif.  II  a  senti  renaitre  en  lui  le 
'*  f6odal."  En  meme  temps  il  a  compris  que  le  f^odal  d'au- 
jourd'hui,  c'est  Thomme  qui,  par  la  volont^,  I'argent  ou  la 
science,  mfene  derriere  lui  un  troupeau  d'hommes.  Et  voila 
qui  est  bien. 

Mais  il  est  facheux,  d'abord,  que  cette  Evolution  d'ame,  si 
int6ressante,  soit  si  soudaine ;  qu'elle  s'accomplisse,  a  vrai 
dire,  dans  un  entr'acte  ;  que  I'auteur  nous  I'ait  insuffisamment 
laiss6  pressentir  et  ne  nous  ait  pas  mieux  montr6  I'indomptable 
orgueil  survivant  sous  les  gestes  charitables  de  I'apotre  sans 
vocation.  Et  il  est  deplorable,  ensuite,  que  ce  revirement  se 
manifeste  par  des  propos  si  outr6s  et  avec  une  brutality  si  in- 
vraisemblable. 

Jean  avait  promis  une  conference  aux  ouvriers  de  Sancy.  II 
la  leur  fait.  D'Evangile  et  de  socialisme  chr6tien,  il  n'en  est 
plus  question  ;  soit.  II  leur  expose  les  th6ories  mfimes  de 
Boussard,  devenues  les  siennes,  —  mais  sous  une  forme  provo- 
cante  et  injurieuse  jusqu'a  la  d6mence.  De  son  christianisme 
des  trois  premiers  actes,  il  n'a  rien  retenu,  absolument  rien,  pas 
mfime  un  peu  de  piti6.  Et,  I'un  de  ses  auditeurs,  ainsi  provo- 
qu6s  sans  motif,  ayant  dit  que  les  capitalistes  sont  des  "  pores 
a  I'engrais,"  Jean  bondit  de  rage  et,  dans  une  m6taphore  longue- 
ment  et  furieusement  d6velopp6e,  crie  que  les  ouvriers  sont 
des  chacals  qui  rongent  les  restes  du  lion.     Image  tout  a  fait 


THKATRE  A   PARIS.  1 75 

deraisonnable,  que  Georges  Boussard  lui-m^me  r6prouverait, 
et  qui  n'exprime  nuUement  avec  exactitude  les  rapports  6cono- 
miques  et  sociaux  des  patrons  et  des  ouvriers.  Visiblement, 
Jean  a  perdu  la  t^te.  Ce  trait  de  rh^torique  exaspfere  les  mi- 
neurs,  am&ne  la  grfeve,  et  vaut  a  Boussard  un  coup  de  fusil  qui 
le  supprime.  Car  il  arrive  que  les  chacals  mangent  le  lion  ; 
et  cela  ne  prouve  rien  d'int6ressant. —  II  semble  que  Tauteur 
n'ait  plus  bien  su  ou  il  allait,  ni  comment  conclure ;  et  c'est 
dommage.  Cest  dommage,  dis-je,  qu'il  ne  nous  ait  donn6  que 
la  moiti6  d'un  chef-d'oeuvre. 

Jules  Lemaitre. 


x^EVUE    DU    MOIS. 


La  mise  en  sc^ne  16gferement  strange  des  adieux  de  Kiel  ne 
doit  pas  nous  fermer  les  yeux  a  la  gravity  trop  certaine  du 
dessein  dont  Tempereur  d'Allemagne  a  confi6  rex6cution  an 
h6ros  de  cette  sc^ne.  II  y  a  certes  de  quoi  soulever  le  rire 
inextinguible  des  Dieux  de  TOlympe  dans  T^loquence  officielle 
des  deux  frferes.  Jamais  romantique  effr6n6,  aux  plus  beaux 
temps  de  la  tour  de  Nesle  et  du  Tavernier  du  diable  et  autres 
fleurs  de  la  rh^torique  ou  de  la  po6tique  moyen-ageuse,  n'a 
d^pass^  ou  mdme  ^gal^  Tenflure  du  passage  ou  Guillaume  II 
adjure  le  prince  Henri,  en  cas  de  resistance,  de  frapper  I'en- 
nemi  en  plein  visage  de  sa  dextre  gantel^e  de  fer.  Jamais  la 
Muse  de  la  boursouflure  sentimentale  n'a  trouv6  d'accents  plus 
involontairement  comiques  que  dans  cette  r6ponse  du  cadet 
ou  ce  prince  se  f61icite  d'avoir  eu  le  privilege  —  assez  ordinaire 
entre  deux  frferes  presque  du  mfeme  age  —  de  grandir  avec  son 
ain6,  s'enorgueillit  d'avoir  plong6  ses  yeux  dans  les  yeux  de 
son  futur  souverain,  et  loue  enfin  comme  un  acte  de  d6s- 
int6ressement  admirable  la  designation  par  un  prince  que  sa 
grandeur  attache  au  rivage  de  son  puin6  pour  commander 
une  expedition. 

Cela  n'est  rien,  toutefois,  aupr^s  des  6tranges  comparaisons 
mystiques  que  le  prince  Henri  a  prodigu6es  a  son  "Trte- 
Auguste,  Trfes-Puissant  et  Trte-Aim6  Empereur,  Trfes-V6n6r6 
Roi  et  Seigneur,  a  jamais,  Illustrissime  Frfere."  Le  byzantinisme 
de  ce  protocole  ne  suffit  pas  a  nous  preparer  a  entendre  parler 
de  "  la  couronne  d'6pines  qui  ceint  le  front  de  Tempereur,"  ou 
de  "I'Evangilede  la  sainte  et  sacr6e  personne  de  Sa  Majest6" 


REVUE   DU   MOIS.  177 

que  le  chef  de  Tescadre  allemande  se  dispose  a  aller  precher 
"a.tous  ceux  qui  voudront  et  aussi  a  tous  ceux  qui  ne  voudront 
pas  I'dcouter."  II  y  a  dans  ces  formules  une  si  naive  impi6tc, 
une  incapacity  si  6vidente  de  comprendre  et  de  sentir  les 
d61icatesses  de  Tame  religieuse  et  rincommunicable  divinity 
des  myst^res  du  christian isme,  que  Ton  se  prend  a  douter 
de  rauthenticit6  de  ce  texte.  Et  pourtant  il  faut  se  rendre 
a  des  preuves  irr^cusables  ;  les  agences  ont  t616graphi6  en 
termes  identiques,  aucun  dementi  n'est  venu  rectifier  leur 
version,  le  Moniteur  de  VEmpirc  est  venu  lui  donner  une  con- 
secration officielle  en  Tins^rant  dans  ses  colonnes. 

Aussi  bien  e'en  a  6t6  un  peu  trop,  meme  pour  les  fideles 
Braudebourgeois  et  pour  les  courtisans  les  plus  dociles  de  la 
maison  de  Hohenzollern.  Ce  n'est  pas  seulement  la  presse 
m^cr^ante  et  r6volutionnaire,  socialiste  ou  radicale,  qui  proteste 
contre  ces  sacrileges.  La  pieuse  et  royaliste  Gazette  de  la  Croix 
fait  des  reserves  attrist^es.  Les  organes  des  hobereaux  agra- 
riens  et  reaction naires  avouent  que  c'est  aller  un  peu  bien  loin 
dans  la  phras^ologie  du  loyalisme.  Les  journaux  proprement 
religieux,  s'ils  sont  6vang61iques,  g6missent  comme  des  co- 
lombes  bless6es ;  et  s'ils  appartiennent  au  centre  catholique, 
hochent  la  t^te  d'un  air  de  superiority  meiancolique.  On  pent 
dire  que  le  prince  Henri,  a  son  depart,  a  trouv6  le  secret  de 
r^unir  toute  TAllemagne  dans  un  meme  sentiment  de  disap- 
probation a  la  fois  ironique  et  indign^e. 

II  n'en  est  point  du  tout  de  mdme  en  ce  qui  concerne  le  feu 
d'artifice  oratoire  de  I'empereur  en  personne.  Un  temps  fut 
ou  il  6tait  de  mode  de  preter  aux  Fran^ais,  qui  n'en  pouvaient 
inais,  un  gout  invincible  pour  la  mise  en  scfene  et  le 
mdodrame  et  ou  le  path6tique  des  adieux  de  Fontainebleau, 
ce  tragique  couronnement  et  denouement  de  Tun  des  plus 
grands  drames  de  I'histoire,  ne  trouvait  meme  pas  grace 
devant  Timplacable  sev6rit6  de  ce  jugement.  Eh  bien  I  les 
i.dieux  de  Kiel  laissent  bien  loin  derrifere  eux  la  scfene  de  la 
^our  de  Marbre  ;  ils  n'ont  sans  doute  pas  tout  a  fait  la 
:xieme  poignante  r6alit6  ;  et  voila  toute  une  nation  d'hommes 
s^^ieux  et  simples  qui  y  assiste,  la  larme  a  Toeil,  et  qui  ne 
;>er9oit  absolument  pas  le  cote  un  peu  comique  de  cette 
J.6monstration  a  grand  orchestre. 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXV.  ^  12 


178  C08M0P0LIS. 

Dieu  sail  pourtant  que  Ton  avait  accumul^  a  plaisir  tout  ce 
qui  pouVait  accroitre  r6tranget6  de  cette  emphatique  manifes- 
tation 1  Au  moment  de  partir,  a  bord  de  I'un  des  meilleurs 
batiments  de  la  flotte  allemande,  pour  une  croisifere  qui  peut, 
dans  certaines  circonstances  passablement  invraisemblables, 
aboutir  a  un  petit  conilit  avec  la  nation  la  moins  militaire  du 
monde,  mais  qui  pent  aussi  n'fitre  qu'un  beau  voyage  de  cir- 
cumnavigation, le  prince  Henri  a  du  aller  prendre  solennelle- 
ment  cong6  de  sa  femme,  de  sa  mfere,  —  j'oubliais  sa  tante.  II 
est  entendu  qu'il  fera  escale  en  Angleterre  pour  aller  recevoir 
la  b6n6diction  de  sa  v6n6rable  mfere- grand.  On  doit  se 
f61iciter  de  ce  que  la  dynastie  de  Hohenzollern  n'ait  pas  sur 
le  chemin  de  TExtreme-Orient  beaucoup  de  cours  de  famille  : 
ces  salamalecs  sentimentaux  auraient  singuliferement  retards 
la  marche  de  I'escadre.  D'ailleurs  le  prince  a  encore  du  faire 
la  tournde  des  anciens  serviteurs  de  son  grand-pfere.  Le 
prince  Bismarck  est  solitaire,  chagrin,  malade,  vieilli,  aigri. 
Tout  ce  que  Ton  sait  de  lui,  c'est  qu'il  a  fort  peu  de  gout 
pour  la  grande  politique  d'outre-mer  de  Guillaume  II.  Cela 
n'empdche  que,  conform6ment  au  programme,  le  prince-marin 
est  venu  le  voir  et  a  demand^  au  vieillard  surpris  de  d6poser 
un  baiser  sur  son  front  a  Tendroit  qu'ont  si  souvent  touche 
les  l^vres  de  Guillaume  I".  On  ne  savait  pas  le  vieil  empereur 
et  son  chancelier  si  adonncs  que  cela  aux  rites  osculatoires, 
et  je  gagerais  volontiers  que  Termite  de  Friedrichsruh  se  serait 
fort  bien  pass6  de  cet  honneur  la. 

Ce  n'en  6tait  pas  moins  une  d-marche  fort  bien  r6gl6e  dans 
le  scenario  du  depart  et  Ton  avait  parfaitement  calcul6 1'effet  de 
cette  visite  sur  une  opinion  dont  Bismarck  n'a  pas  cess6  d'fitre 
le  h6ros  et  Tidole.  Aprfes  cela,  est  venu  le  tour  de  la  jeunesse 
universitaire  laquelle,  avec  une  modestie  charmante,  a  entretenu 
le  prince  Henri  de  la  vaillance  allemande,  de  la  grandeur 
allemande  et  de  ce  soleil  allemand  qui  va  se  lever  a  Theure  ou 
se  couche  le  soleil  chinois.  Les  choses  6taient  mures  pour 
I'apparition,  dans  une  apoth6ose,  de  I'empereur  en  personne. 
II  est  arriv6,  il  a  harangu6,  il  a  navigu6,  il  a  couronn6  son 
expedition  en  allant,  fort  habilement,  rendre  visite  au  prince 
Bismarck,  qui  n'en  pent  mais,  noyer  son  opposition  dans  les 
rayons  de  Taur^ole  imp6ri  ile,  annexer  de  gr6  ou  de  force 


REVUE  DU   MOIS.  179 

rimmense  popularity  du  maire  du  palais  disgraci6  et  donner  en 
quelque  sorte  a  la  campagne  de  Chine  la  consecration 
nationale  que,  du  vivant  de  Tex-chancelier,  elle  ne  peut  recevoir 
que  sous  le  toit  de  Friedrichsruh. 

Et  maintenant  vogue  la  galore  du  prince  Henri !  Les 
d6buts  de  la  croisi^re  n'ont  pas  6te  du  plus  heureux  augure. 
Le  cuirass6  Deutschland  a  attrap6  de  grosses  avaries  a  son 
passage  a  travers  le  canal  maritime  et  il  a  fallu  le  raettre 
a  la  queue  d'un  remorqueur  pour  faire  avec  quelque 
s6curit6  le  trajet  du  jour  de  depart  —  ce  qui  ne  Ta  point 
empech6  de  subir  encore  un  ou  deux  accidents.  Voila  done 
partie  la  seconde  division  destin6e  a  renforcer  Tescadre  de 
Tamiral  Diedrichsen  dans  les  mers  de  Chine.  Dans  I'empire 
des  HohenzoUern,  avec  une  dynastie  6vang61ique  et  avec  un 
empereur  orthodoxe,  dans  un  pays  en  grande  majority 
protestant,  c'est  de  deux  des  pr^lats  les  plus  haut  places  de  la 
hierarchic  catholique,  du  cardinal  prince-6veque  de  Breslau, 
le  docteur  Kopp,  et  de  Tarchev^que  de  Gnesen  et  Posen,  un 
Polonais,  Mgr  de  Stablewski,  que  sont  partis  les  derniers 
messages,  vceux  et  priferes  m616s,  qui  ont  accompagnd  la  mise 
a  la  voile  de  I'escadre.  Tant  il  6tait  6crit  que  tout,  dans  cette 
affaire,  serait  strange  et  peu  paradoxal  et  conforme  aux 
vraisemblances  ! 

Car  tout,  en  effet,  y  est  extraordinaire.  Et  d'abord  qu'est- 
ce  que  va  faire  en  Chine  ce  grand  armement  naval  ?  On  part 
en  guerre,  on  se  fait  les  adieux  d' Hector  et  d'Andromaque, 
on  fait  vibrer  toutes  les  cordes  de  la  sensibility,  du  patriotisme 
et  de  Torgueil  militaire — et  au  fond  on  ne  sait  nullement  si 
Ton  aura  seulement  I'occasion  de  bruler  une  amorce.  C'est 
qu'en  effet  jusqu'ici  le  gouvernement  du  Fils  du  Ciel  a  6t6 
fort  bien  conseill6  dans  cette  affaire  et  qu'il  s'est  avis6  des 
BTieilleurs  moyens  de  parer  les  coups  de  TAllemagne.  Deux 
»nissionnaires  catholiques  allemands  ont  6t6  martyrises  par  la 
populace.  L'incident  en  soi  n'6tait  pas  pour  6mouvoir  les 
rnandarins.  La  chose  n'est  pas  rare ;  on  en  connait  les 
C2ons6quences  habituelles,  et  Tordre  et  la  marche  des  nego- 
tiations auxquelles  donnent  lieu  de  tels  attentats  sont  regies 
j  bisque  dans  les  derniers*  details.  Au  premier  moment  la 
t^rusquerie,  pour  ne  pas  dire    la    brutality,    de   la    fa9on    de 


l8o  COSMOPOLIS. 

proc6der  allemande, — cette  occupation  de  la  bale  de  Kiao- 
Tcheou  pr6c6dant  toute  demande  diplomatique,  aurait  pu 
d6concerter  !e  Tsung-li-Yamen. 

Celui-ci  u'a  point  perdu  sa  presence  d'esprit.  En  d6pit  de 
Li-Hung-Chang,  qui  a  son  pouvoir  a  reconqu^rir  et  qui 
recherche  en  consequence  les  aventures  autant  que  nagufere  il 
fuyait  les  responsabilitfe,  la  majority  du  conseil  a  d6cid6  qu'il 
fallait  c6der,  c6der  toujours,  embarrasser  TAllemagne  a  force 
de  docility.  A  peine  connaissait-on  les  conditions  exig6es  par 
I'empire  allemand  :  on  ne  s'en  est  pas  moins  empress^  de  les 
accorder  toutes,  en  bloc,  et  de  revetir  ce  consentement 
solennel  du  sceau  du  Fils  du  Ciel.  La  correction  diplomatique 
— pour  ne  pas  parler  du  droit  des  gens — aurait  sans  doute 
voulu  qu'avant  d'ouvrir  une  conversation  amiable,  les  com- 
pagnies  de  d^barquement  de  I'amiral  de  Diedrichsen 
6vacuassent  Kiao-Tcheou.  Qu'a  cela  ne  tienne  I  Le  Celeste- 
Empire  est  vaste ;  une  baie  de  plus  ou  de  moins  n'est  pas  pour 
appauvrir  beaucoup  Timp^rial  fantome  qui  se  d^robe  aux 
regards  de  tous  dans  son  palais  de  P6kin  :  on  priera  gracieuse- 
ment  les  Allemands  de  conserver  leur  gage  jusqu'au  bout  des 
pourparlers  et  on  leur  donne  en  6change  une  d61icieuse  petite 
station  navale,  quelque  chose  a  souhait,  de  quoi  r6jouir  le 
coeur  du  souverain  le  plus  f6ru  de  grandeur  maritime  et 
d'empire  d'outre-mer.  Toute  cette  tactique  est  fort  adroite. 
II  est  Evident  qu'un  boulet  lanc6  par  une  pifece  de  cent  tonnes 
fera  beaucoup  plus  de  mal  s'll  trouve  devant  lui  la  resistance 
obstin^e  d'un  rempart  de  pierre  que  s'il  va  s'enterrer  dans  un 
rev6tement  de  gazon  ou  dans  une  terre  friable  et  moUe. 

Rien  done  ne  permet  d'affimer  d'avance  que  le  prince  Henri, 
aprfes  de  si  belliqueuses  demonstrations,  soit  appel6  k  tirer  un 
coup  de  canon.  Je  ne  me  sens  pas  le  droit,  pour  ma  part,  en 
d6pit  de  certaines  phrases  suspectes  de  la  harangue  imp6riale,  de 
prater  a Guillaume  II  un  dessein  aussi  attentatoire  aux  principes 
el6mentaires  du  droit  des  gens  que  le  serait  une  offensive 
obstin^e  contre  un  Etat  qui  cederait  sur  tous  les  points.  Autant 
j'incline  a  admettre  que  le  meurtre  des  missionnaires  a  6t6 
envisage  a  Berlin  comme  un  moyen  providentiel  d'inaugurer 
la  grande'politique  d'outre-mer  et  que  Ton  y  est  rfeolu  k  ne 
rien  n^gliger  pour  tirer  de  ce  conflit  tout  ce  qu'il  peut  contenir 


REVUE  DU  MOIS.  l8l 

d'avantages,  autant.il  m'est  impossible  de  prater  au  gouverne- 
ment  imp6rial  Tintention  arr^t^e  d'avance  de  ne  reculer  devant 
rien,  de  violer  toutes  les  lois  et  d'abuser  de  la  force. 

Et  puis,  enfin,  il  me  semble  que  Ton  fait  en  I'espfece  un  peu 
trop    abstraction   de  certaines  donn^es    qui   ne   laissent  pas 
d'etre  essentielles  pour  la  solution  du  probl^me.     On   dirait 
vraiment  qu'il  s'agit  pour  I'Allemagne  d'agir  ///  vacuo  et  qu'elle 
n'a  devant  elle  qu'une  table  rase  ou  manoeuvrer  a  son  gr6  et  a 
son  aise.     C'est  la  une  grave  erreur.     Non  seulement  la  Chine 
n'estpas  une  terra  incognita,  une  res  nullins,  une  deces  regions 
que  la  morale  moderne,  complaisante  aux  races  conqu^rantes  et 
colonisatrices,  abandonne  au  premier  occupant ;  mais  encore 
cet  empire  soutient  avec  le  reste  du  monde,  et  en  particulier 
avec  notre  Europe,  tout  un  ensemble  complexe  de  rapports 
juridiques,  de  relations  de  droit  et  de  fait  qui  le  placent  sous  la 
sauvegarde  non  seulement  de  ce  protecteur  un  peu  platonique 
qui  s'appelle  le  droit  des  gens,  mais  du  droit  conventionnel  et 
de  la  foi  des  trait6s.     Oui,  j'ai  d6ja  eu  occasion  de  le  dire,  il  y  a 
— m^me  en  Afrique  et  a  combien  plus  forte  raison  en  Extreme- 
Orient — il  y  a  une  Europe,  avec  laquelle  11  faut  compter,  des 
droits,  des  int6rets,  des  obligations,  de  la  conscience  m^me  de 
laquelle  il  faut  se  pr6occuper  et  qui  ne  saurait  laisser  le  champ 
libre  aux  caprices  ou  aux  ambitions  de  telle  ou  telle  puissance. 
S'imagine-t-on  que  la  Russie  n'ait  pas  son  mot  a  dire  dans 
le  partage   d'une  succession    qui,  d'ailleurs,    n'est  pas  encore 
ouverte,  mais  qu'elle  surveille  avec  une  attention  passionn6e 
fiepuis  longtemps  ?     A-t-on  oublie   que  cette  meme  baie  de 
Kiao-Tcheou  a  6t6  I'objet  des  convoitises  fort  naturelles  du 
cabinet  de  P6tersbourg  et  que  le  bruit  avait  couru  d'une  esp^ce 
de  cession  a  bail  emphyt^otique  de  ce  port  libre  de  glaces  au 
profit  de  la  marine  russe  ?     Le  voisinage,  cette  immense  fron- 
tiere  qui  fait  la  Sib6rie  Umitrophe  de  la  Chine,  I'importance 
du  fleuve  Amour  comme  voie  navigable  et  de  la  Mandchourie 
septentrionale     pour     I'achfevement     du    Transsiberien,     les 
innombrables    int6r6ts  que    poss^de    dans    ces  parages    une 
puissance  plus  qu'a  moiti^  asiatique,  en  voila  certes  plus  qu'il 
n'en  faut  pour  d^montrer  qu'a  St-P6tersbourg  on  ne  saurait 
se  d6sint6resser  de  Taction  de  I'Allemagne  ni  lui  donner  carte 
blanche  en  Chine.     II  sc  pent, — rien  n'est  impossible, — qu'en 


1 82  COSMOPOLIS. 

fait  un  accord  soit  d6ja  intervenu  entre  les  deux  cours  et  que 
rAUemagne  agisse  avec  la  pleine  autorisation  du  gouvernemenl 
du  Tsar.  On  me  permettra  d'attendre  des  preuves  irrefragables 
d'un  arrangement  qui,  sans  doute,  aurait  une  contre-partie  a 
I'avantage  de  la  Russie  et  qui  en  tout  cas  se  serait  conclu  avec 
une  vertigineuse  c6i6rit6.  On  voudra  bien  egalement  convenir 
avec  moi  que  le  langage  de  la  presse  russe  ne  confirme  gu^re 
une  telle  hypoth^se  et  Ton  sait  pourtant  que  ce  n'est  pas 
pr6cis6ment  de  Texces  de  libertc  que  souffre  ou  jouit  cette 
presse — surtout  en  pareille  matiere. 

Bien  plus  :  on  commence  a  annoncer  des  mouvements  qui 
ne  laisseraient  pas  de  presager,  sinon  la  possibilite  de  graves 
conflits,  du  moins  Tadoption  de  precautions  de  nature  a  trahir 
— et  a  16gitimer — toutes  les  inqui6tudes.  L'escadre  du  Pacifique- 
Xord  vient,  dit-on,  de  recevoir  Tordre  d'aller  mouiller  a  Port 
Arthur  :  soit  que  la  Chine  ait  consenti  a  ceder — pour  un  de 
ces  provisoires  qui  durent  plus  longtemps  que  les  d6finitifs  ce 
port  libre  de  glaces  en  hiver  a  la  puissance  jusqu'ici  enchain^e 
par  les  frimas  a  Vladivostock, —  soit  que  tout  simplement  le 
cabinet  de  P6tersbourg  estime  utile  de  veiller  de  pr^s  aux 
agissements  des  forces  allemandes  et  qu'il  ait  donne  des  ordres 
cachet6s  a  Tamiral  AlexeTef.  En  tout  6tat  de  cause,  il  devient 
difficile  de  pr6tendre  que  la  politique  inaugur6e  a  si  grand 
orchestre  par  Guillaume  II  n'ait  pas  un  retentissement 
imm^diat  parmi  les  puissances  int6ress6es  en  Extreme-Orient. 

Pour  I'Angleterre,  il  pent  sembler  assez  malais6  de  d6meler 
le  sentiment  r6el  de  son  public  et  Tinspiration  veritable  de  sa 
politique.  La  presse  a  fait  des  gorges-chaudes  de  I'eloquence 
imperiale  et  princiere  ;  elle  a  trait6  sans  le  moindre  m6nage- 
ment  les  augustes  d6clamateurs  de  Kiel ;  elle  a  ri  irr6v6ren- 
cieusement  du  mauvais  ;mVo  machine  par  les  deux  Hohen- 
zoUern.  Cela  fait,  elle  n'a  pas  jusqu'ici  dit  grand'chose  sur  le 
fond  des  choses.  Oh  !  quand  il  s'agit  de  mettre  les  tiers  en 
avant,  de  signaler,  au  besoin  d'exciter  et  d'exalter  I'irritation 
d'autrui,  de  brouiller  tout  doucement — ad  majorem  Victorice 
gloriam — FAUemagne  et  la  Russie  ou  la  France, — les  organes 
de  I'opinion,  grands,  moyens  et  petits,  donnent  avec  un 
remarquable  ensemble.  lis  ne  voient  ou  ne  pr^voient  que 
plaies  et  bosses.     lis  ont  peine  acroireaune  issue  amiable. 


L'odeur  de  lapoudre  se  respire  d^jaa  pleines  narines  dans  leurs 
pages  guerri^res — mais  guerri^res  pour  autrui.  Cette  tactique 
est  peut-etre  moins  subtile  et  moins  malais6e  a  percer  a  jour 
qu'elle  n'en  a  Tair  ou  Tintention.  Sans  doute,  il  est  assez  naturel 
qu'un  pays  pr6f6re,  en  premiere  ligne,  laisser  faire  ses  affaires  a 
d'autres,  ne  pas  assumer  des  responsabilit6s  qu'un  tiers 
consent  a  prendre  sur  son  dos  ;  ne  pas  encourir  de  perils 
qu'une  puissance  intervenante  tient  a  braver.  C'est  dans  le 
temperament  anglais.  II  n'en  demeure  pas  moins  qu'en 
derniere  analyse  le  cabinet  de  St-James  ne  saurait  s'abstenir  et 
se  d6sint6resser  de  tout  ce  qui  touche  a  T^quilibre  territorial 
en  Extreme-Orient  et  a  Tintegrite  du  C61este-Empire. 

Bon  gr6,  mal  gr6,  les  maitres  de  Hong-Kong,  les  souverains 
de  rinde,  les  grands  traficants  de  ces  parages,  sont  forces  de 
suivre  avec  une  vigilance  tou jours  en  eveil  les  premiers  essais 
d'une  politique  d'annexion,  de  conquete  et  de  d6membrement 
en  Chine.  D6ja  TAngleterre  s'est  vivement  plainte  d'avoir 
6t6  exclue  —  par  sa  propre  faute  et  par  elle  seule  —  de  la 
mediation  a  trois  qui  a  mis  un  terme  a  la  guerre  sino- 
japonaise  et  qui  a  pr6serv6  I'empire  chinois.  A  cette  heure 
il  y  va  de  plus  encore  et  le  gouvernement  de  Sa  Majest6 
Britannique  ne  saurait  faire  d'avance  profession  de  bien- 
veillance  ou  m^me  de  neutrality  a  regard  des  projets  grandioses 
de  Guillaume  II.  Rien  ne  serait  plus  pu6ril  et  plus  faux  que 
d'aller  s'imaginer  qu'il  puisse  suffire  de  la  visite  en  coup  de 
vent,  du  rapide  adieu  du  prince  Henri  a  sa  grand'mere,  a 
Osborne,  pour  ndgocier  et  conclure  un  accord  viable  sur  ces 
points.  Outre  que  le  temps  ferait  materiellement  d6faut  pour 
aborder  ou  effleurer  dans  la  conversation  la  plus  superficielle  et 
la  plus  rapide  les  principaux  de  ces  sujets,  le  constitution- 
nalisme  britannique,  en  depit  de  la  large  part  qu'il  fait  a 
rexp6rience  et  a  I'autorite  morale  ou  au  credit  personnel  de  la 
Reine,  ne  saurait  absolument  s'accommoder  d'une  affaire  de 
Get  ordre  trait6e  sous  le  manteau  de  la  chemin6e  entre  quatre 
yeux,  par  une  v6n6rable  afeule  et  son  petit-fils  respectueux. 

La  v6rit6  est  que  Lord  Salisbury  va  avoir  a  prendre  parti  et 
position  a  regard  de  la  politique  extr^me-orientale  de 
I'Allemagne,  tout  comme  les  autres  puissances  affect6es  par 
cette  entreprise  nouvelle,  tout  comme  la  Russie,  le  Japon  ou 


184  COSMOPOLIS. 

la  France.  II  ne  faut  pas,  en  effet,  ^liminer  de  ces  considera- 
tions I'empire  de  Niphon.  La  guerre  r6cente  a  suffisamment 
mis  en  lumi^re  la  vitality  intense,  les  ressources  militaires,  le 
ressort,  Tdnergie  offensive — et  aussi  les  vastes  ambitions  de  cet 
Etat.  Dans  les  conditions  geographiques,  morales,  historiques, 
6conomiques,  etc.,  ou  se  trouve  ie  Japon,  il  doit  plus  que  pas 
une  autre  puissance  etre  sur  Talerte  pour  revendiquer  son  droit 
et  sauvegarder  sa  part.  Que,  si  vraiment  i'action  de  TAllemagne 
a  pour  objet  ou  pour  r6sultat  Touverture  pr6cipit6e  de  la 
succession  du  Fils  du  Ciel;  si  I'occupation  irrevocable  de  Kiao- 
Tcheou  donne  le  signal  d'une  sorte  de  curee  passablement 
r^pugnante,  ou  si  du  moins  la  diplomatie  se  trouve  avec,  sur 
les  bras,  un  nouvel  Homme  tnalaJc,  nous  aurons  ragr6ment 
de  devoir  constater  que  le  probleme,  d^ja  si  difficile  a  r^soudre 
sur  le  Bosphore  et  a  Tegard  de  la  Chine  ottomane,  se  trouvera 
compliqu6  et  embarrass^  pour  la  Turquie  chinoise,  non 
seulement  par  T^loignement,  par  la  v6tust6,  par  la  difference 
immense  des  civilisations,  par  les  progres  d'une  decomposition 
latente,  parl'absence  de  nationaliteschretiennes,germesd'Etats 
autonomes,  mais  encore  et  surtout  par  la  presence  sur  les  lieux 
d'un  heritier  aussi  peu  negligeable  que  le  Japon. 

Force  sera  done  a  la  France  aussi  d'ouvrir  les  yeux,  de  regarder 
autour  d'elle  et  de  fixer  son  programme.  J'ose  a  peine  esperer 
qu'il  sc  trouve  un  public  assez  maitrc  de  lui,  assez  eco^ure 
des  ignobles  paiades  des  treteaux  du  patriotisme  a  la  derniire 
mode,  asse/  penctrc  des  obligations  d  un  grand  pays  envers 
soi-meme  et  les  autres,  pour  se  preoccuper  ou  s'occuper  comme 
il  conviendrait  de  cette  grave  question.  Ainsi  qu'il  arrive 
toujours,  c'est  sous  Tangle  d'un  probleme  special,  d'une  ques- 
tion de  detail,  le  grand  probleme  fondamental  du  systfeme  des 
relations  Internationales  de  la  France  qui  se  pose  de  nouveau 
et  qui  doit  etre  resolu.  Or,  il  faut  qu'ici  je  disc  toute  ma 
pensee,  je  crains  fort  qu'il  ne  soit  fausse  par  des  elements 
adventices  et  factices  et  qu'il  ne  risque  d'etre  tranche,  non 
pas  a  la  lumiere  des  prmcipes,  mais  en  vue  d'objets  particuliers 
et  d'interets  momentanes.  Voila  quelque  temps  deja  que  ce 
grand  point  d'interrogation  se  dresse  devant  nous. 

Au  lendemain  mcme  du  voyage  presidentiel  a  St-Petersbourg, 
du  resserrement  et  de  la   promulgation  de  I'alliance  franco- 


REVUE  DU   MOIS.  185 

russe,  la  presse,  se  rendant  I'^cho  de  preoccupations  tres  g6ne- 
rales,  a  discut6  avec  une  certaine  ardeur  sur  Torientation  du 
nouveau  couple  et  sp6cialement  sur  ses  rapports,  soit  avec 
TAngleterre,  soit  avec  TAUemagne.  II  y  a  eu — d'une  fa9on  trfes 
marquee  dans  la  presse  petersbourgeoise,  plus  discrfetement 
dans  une  fraction  de  la  presse  parisienne — un  movement  bien 
significatif  en  faveur  d'une  sorte  de  Ligue  continental  a 
pointe  dirig6e  contre  I'Angleterre.  Je  n'ignore  assur6ment  pas 
les  mobiles  eminemment  passagers  qui  se  melaient  a  des 
pr6jug6s  inv6t6r6s  et  a  des  passions  tres  durables  pour 
accr6diter  de  certains  c6t6s  ce  plan. 

Je  sais  fort  bien  qu'a  ce  moment-la  le  cabinet  de  St-James 
achevait  de  monter  contre  lui  la  legitime  irritation  des  puis- 
sances en  couronnant  Tceuvre  d'incoh^rence,  de  contradiction, 
de  mauvaise  foi  et  de  mauvaise  volont6  qu'il  avait  poursuivie 
depuis  I'ouverture  de  la  crise  orientale  et  sp6cialement  de  la 
guerre  russo-turque,  et  par  laquelle  il  a  paralyse  et  ridiculis6 
le  concert  europ6en.     Un  peu  de  mauvaise  humeur  6tait  la 
chose  la  plus  naturelle  du  monde.      Seulement  il  ne  fallait 
point  oublier  que  la  mauvaise  humeur  est  mauvaise  conseillfere 
et  qu'il  ne  convient  pas  de  T^couter  quand  il  s'agit  de  con- 
duite  et  de  politique.     Ce  que  je  redoute  pr6cis6ment  le  plus, 
c'est  que  des  sentiments  de  cette  nature,  en  soi  parfaitement 
legitimes  dans  leur  sphere,  ne  viennent  troubler  la  vision  des 
clevoir,  des  droits,  des  int6rets  de  la  France  et  ne  dictent,  au 
iTiilieu  de  Tindiff^rence   universelle,  a  un  gouvernement  trop 
tTiaitre  de  ses  decisions,  une  attitude   aussi    contraire   a    nos 
"traditions  en   Extreme-Orient  que  funeste  pour   nos    combi- 
i^aisons   et  nos  desseins  dans   le   monde  entier.      Justement 
tiiaintenant  il  existe  entre  TAngleterre  et  nous  un  regrettable 
oonflit,  que  des  efforts  indiscrets  n'ont  que  trop  tendu  a  en- 
\^enimer  de  part  et  d'autre  et  qui  ne  laisse  pas  de  faire  courir 
des  risques  assez  graves  a  la  bonne  entente  des  deux  pays. 

Grace  a  des  fautes  et  a  des  erreurs  mutuelles,  on  a  fait  de  ce 

qui  n'aurait  du  6tre  qu'un  proces  pendant  devant  une  juridic- 

tion  r6gulifere  un  veritable  antagonisme  tout  pret  a  d6g^n6rer 

en  hostility.  Au  lieu  de  s'en  r6f6rer  aux  titres,  aux  documents, 

a  toutes  les  pieces  du   dossier,    au    lieu    d'invoquer    chacun 

son   bon   droit  en  faisant   d'avancc   hi   part   des   concessions 


1 86  COSMOPOLIS. 

n6cessaires  et  enVen  remettant  pour  la  fixation  deces  sacrifices 
a  un  tribunal  arbitral,  on  est  parti  en  guerre,  on  s'est  d6nonc6 
continuellement,  on  fait  appel  aux  pires  passions,  on  a  pris 
devant  le  public  d'imprudentes  attitudes  de  resistance  inflexible  ; 
bref,  on  a  fait  tout  le  jeu  de  la  clique  n6faste  qui  aurait  int^ret 
a  pecher  en  eau  trouble.  Si  la  presse  seule  s'^tait  mel6e  de  la 
querelle,  a  la  fa9on  des  h^ros  d'Homere,  on  connait  ses  coups 
de  gueule  et  Ton  sait  en  escompter  la  val6ur ;  mais  il  a  paru 
a  plusieurs  reprises  que  la  main  d'un  homme  d'Etat,  d'un 
ministre  influent,  tirait  les  lils  de  toutes  ces  marionnettes  et 
attisait  le  feu  de  toutes  ces  col^res.  M.  Chamberlain  n'est  pas 
une  quantity  n^gligeablc.  II  a  sourdement  engage  une  lutte  avec 
Lord  Salisbury,  son  chef,  et  il  a  6t6  possible  de  se  demander, 
non  sans  angoisse,  si  vraiment  la  France  et  TAngleterre  allaient 
donner  cette  joie  a  leurs  ennemis  et  a  ceux  du  progrfes,  ce 
scandale  a  tous  les  amis  de  rhumanit6,  de  se  prendre  au  collet 
et  de  se  battre  pour  quelques  mar^cages  empest^s  de  I'Afrique 
occidentale,  ou  pour  quelques  tribus  indociles  et  ddoyales  de 
la  boucle  du  Niger. 

Par  bonheur,  Tinstant  critique  est  pass6.  Le  p6ril  est 
derrifere  nous.  Un  vigoureux  et  sincere  effort,  une  reprise  de 
Tesprit  de  conciliation  mutuelle,  un  retour  de  bon  sens, 
I'espfece  de  vague  angoisse  du  public  a  la  pen^^e  ind^cise  d'un 
conflit  anglo-fran^ais,  la  loyale  cooperation  de  M.  Hanotaux 
et  de  Lord  Salisbury  ont,  je  crois,  pr6valu  sur  les  tendances 
obstin6ment  hostiles.  M.  Chamberlain  lui-m^me  s'est  rendu 
et  a  eu  avec  le  baron  de  Courcel  une  entrevue  ou  des 
progrfes  consid6rables  ont  6t6  faits  vers  un  accord  final.  Ceux- 
la  mdmes  qui  connaissent  I'eminent  secretaire  d'Etat  pour 
les  colonies,  ont  cru  pouvoir  se  dire  avec  quelque  certitude 
qu'il  avait  subi  un  echec,  par  consequent,  que  la  cause  de 
I'harmonie  et  de  la  paix  avait  remporte  quelque  succfes,  lorqu'ils 
ont  vu  mettre  en  circulation  a  Birmingham  m^me  le  bruit 
d'un  changement  de  portefeuille  pour  le  leader  unioniste  et  de 
sa  translation  au  d^partement  de  la  guerre. 

M.  Chamberlain  n'aime  pas  les  d6faites  ;  il  se  plait  a  etre  en  vue 
et  en  Evidence,  en  saillie  par  devant  les  autres,  en  flfeche  devant 
ses  collfegues.  Tant  que  la  politique  coloniale  a  fourni  matifere 
aux  p6ans  de   sa  presse  chauvine,  il  a  volontiers  pr6sid6  aux 


REVUE   DU   MOIS.  1 87 

destinies  de  rempire.  Aujourd'hui  il  s'agit  de  battre  en 
retraite.  D'autre  part  on  annonce  pour  la  prochaine  session 
des  plans  de  reorganisation  militaire  qui  feront  du  ministre 
de  la  guerre  Thomme  le  plus  en  evidence  du  cabinet.  Tout 
ce  petit  projet  se  serait  sans  doute  r6alis6  si  Lord  Salisbury,  qui 
n'aime  pas  a  se  laisser  jouer,  n'y  avait  mis  le  hola  en  faisant 
insurer  dans  le  Times  une  sfeche  petite  note  pour  declarer  que 
les  principales  critiques  contre  la  politique  colon iale  de  M. 
Chamberlain  se  fondant  sur  I'eventualit^  de  ses  p6rilleuses  con- 
sequences, il  convenait  de  le  maintenir  a  la  tete  de  son 
departement  jusqu'a  ce  que  les  r6sultats  de  ses  innombrables 
entreprises  se  fussent  produits.  Quoi  qu'il  en  soit,  il  y  a  lieu 
de  croire  que  le  danger  d'une  rupture  sur  TAfrique  occidentale 
est  conjur6. 

Cela  est  fort  heureux.  Je  n'en  appr^hende  pas  moins  que 
i'esprit  public,  soigneusement  excite  pendant  des  semaines,  celui 
meme  de  nos  hommes  d'Etat  ne  garde  un  tel  ressentiment 
contre  la  politique  anglaise  que  la  France  ne  coure  le  risque 
de  preter  les  mains  trop  promptement,  trop  complfetement, 
trop  gratuitement  a  I'Allemagne  dans  ses  desseins  sur  la  Chine. 
Encore  une  fois,  c'est  vraisemblablement  un  tournant  de 
i'histoire  contemporaine  oil  nous  sommes  arrives.  II  s'agit  de 
choisir  entre  I'adh^sion  de  la  France  et  de  la  Russie  a  la 
Triple-Alliance  et  la  formation  d'une  soci6t6  a  trois  avec 
I'Angleterre.  Du  c6t6  de  la  premifere  solution  militent,  tout 
d'abord,  les  mille  et  une  rancunes  dont  je  viens  d'indiquer 
la  v6h6mence  contre  la  Grande- Bretagne.  II  y  a,  ensuite,  le  fait 
de  plus  en  plus  patent,  avou^,  proclam6,  de  r^tablissement 
d'une  intimity  austro-russe.  Le  comte  Goluchowski  I'a 
dit  aux  Delegations  aux  applaudissements  fr6netiques  des 
Hongrois  et  des  Polonais.  L'empereur  Francois- Joseph 
I'afiiche  avec  une  ostentation  bien  significative.  En  dehors  des 
liens  sp6ciaux  qui  unissent  TAutriche  a  I'Allemagne,  la  Russie 
a  la  France,  il  y  a  entre  I'Autriche  et  la  Russie  une  entente 
dont  les  petits  Etats  des  Balkans  ont  deja  appris  a  connaitre 
les  bienfaits  et  qui  tend  a  modifier  toute  la  situation 
europ6enne.  Naturellement,  Guillaume  II,  dont  les  preferences 
manifestes  sont  toutes  tournees  vers  la  reprise  des  relations 
traditionnelles  des  Hohenzollern  avec  les  Romanof,  voudrait 


i 


l88  COSMOPOLIS. 

a  toute  force  noyer  un  accord  special,  qui  le  chiffonne  et  lui 
d^plait  parce  qu'il  fait  a  TAutriche  une  superbe  position  dans 
la  Triplice,  dans  une  vaste  Ligue  continentale  qui  aurait  en 
outre  le  double  avantage  de  mettre  I'Angleterre  dans  I'isole- 
ment  d'une  quarantaine  et  de  r^duire  Talliance  franco-russe 
aux  proportions  d'une  combinaison  secondaire  et  accessoire. 
Tout  cela  est  fortement  m6dit6. 

11  ne  faut  pas  que  la  France  se  dissimule  que  tout  ce  qui 
tendrait  a  lui  faire  prendre  place,  fut-ce  aux  c6t6s  et  avec 
I'assentiment  plein  et  entier  de  la  Russie,  dans  une  coalition 
ou  plutot  dans  un  tout  y  va  de  ce  genre,  6quivaut  a  Tannula- 
tion  de  Talliance  russe,  et  a  la  reconstitution  d'un  Drei- 
Kaiserbundf  avec  deux  associes  du  second  degr6  a  la  suite, 
la  France  et  Tltalie.  On  me  permettra  de  ne  pas  m'6tendre 
sur  ce  qu'impliquerait  pour  Tame  fran9aise  I'abandon  ou 
plutot  Tabjuration  de  cette  espfece  de  protestation  invincible  — 
adversus  hostem  cutema  aucioriias  csto  —  qui  n'est  nullement  le 
vulgaire  esprit  de  la  revanche  ou  la  haine  farouche  de  Tennemi 
h6r6ditaire,  mais  qui  est  comme  un  t^moignage  permanent 
contre  la  force  victorieuse  pour  le  droit  vaincu  et  un  appel  a 
la  justice  i^ternelle  en  faveur  des  victimes  de  la  brutale 
annexion. 

Le  jour  ou,  d61iberement,  les  yeux  ouverts,  un  echange  de 
je  ne  sais  quel  quid  pro  quo  materiel  ou  d'un  service  quel- 
conque  rendu  a  son  ressentiment  contre  la  perfidy:  Albion^ 
la  France  accepterait  de  se  faire  I'auxiliaire,  la  complice, 
I'instrument  des  projets  ambitieux  de  I'Allemagne,  elle  signcrait 
son  abdication  ou  plutot  sa  d^cheance  morale.  Elle  aurait 
beau  grossir  ses  eflfectifs  et  perfectionner  ses  armements  :  Tame 
se  serait  envol6e  et  il  ne  resterait  plus  qu'un  grand  corps  sans 
volont6  et  sans  but.  Mais  je  me  trompe  :  ce  qui  arriverait, 
c'est  qu'au  lendemain  du  jour  ou  une  alliance  aussi  impie 
aurait  6t6  conclue,  la  conscience  nationale  se  r6veillerait  et 
qu'elle  balayerait  du  coup  et  I'homme  politique  qui  aurait 
pr6par6  et  le  gouvernement  qui  aurait  ratifie  et  le  regime  qui 
aurait  rendu  possible  cette  trahison  de  I'id^al. 

Et  a  quelle  heure,  juste  ciel,  faisons-nous  une  telle  6volu- 
tion  ?  Precis6ment  quand  tout  indique  et  annonce  un  for- 
midable conflit  entre  TAllemagne  et  I'Angleterre.     II  y  a  beau 


REVUE   DU   MOIS.  l8q 

temps  que  Ton  a  pu  lire  a  Thorizon  les  signes  pr^moniteurs  de 
ce  choc.  Depuis  Todieux  attentat  de  Jameson  an  Transvaal, 
les  divergences  ont  6clat6  a  tous  les  yeux  :  le  t616gramme  de 
I'empereur  Guillaume  au  president  Kruger  a  d6chain6,  des 
deux  c6t6s  de  la  mer  du  Nord,  des  tempetes  de  colore  et 
d'outrage.  En  d^pit  d'accalmies  temporaires,  malgr6  les  liens 
dynastiques  et  les  efforts  de  la  diplomatie,  la  mfeintelligence 
a  persists  et  elle  saisit  chaque  occasion  de  s'affirmer  avec 
bruit. 

Jusqu'ici  les  deux  adversaires  semblaient  hors  d'etat  de  se 

faire  grand  mal  parce  qu'ils  avaient  chacun  leur  616ment  et 

qu'ils  s'y  tenaient.     L'Allemagne  6tait  la  puissance  militaire, 

I'Angleterre  la  puissance  navale  par  excellence.     L'une  r^gnait 

sur  les  mers,  I'autre  sur  le  continent.     Mais  voila  que  tout 

cela   change.      Guillaume    II   est   piqu6   de   la   tarantule   des 

conqudtes.     II   veut   etre   Mehrer   des  Reichs.     Le   tenter   en 

Europe,  ce  serait  aller  au  devant  de  catastrophes.     L'id6e  d'un 

grand  empire  d'outre-mer  le  s6duit.     La  marotte  de  la  marine 

le  prend  pour  ne  le  plus  lacher.    A  cette  heure  le  Reichstag 

est  en  train  de  discuter  —  et  il  votera  a  coup  sur  —  un  plan  de 

septennat  naval  qui  ne  constitue  pas  seulement  une  abdication 

de  sa  prerogative  budg^taire,  qui  donnera  a  TAllemagne  une 

flotte  considerable,  le  rang  d'une  puissance  navale  de  second 

rang.     En  meme  temps  il  s'empare  du  pr^texte  des  mission- 

n^iires   massacres   en   Chine  ;    il   fait   occuper   Kiao-Tch^ou  : 

c'^st  le  commencement  de  la  fondation  de  son  fameux  empire 

d  '  outre-mer,  de  la  plus  grande  Allemagne. 

Au  moment  meme  ou  Tempire  germanique  se  lance  dans 

c^tte  voie,  TAngleterre  qui  vient  de  se  cr^er  une  flotte  formi- 

ds^ble  et  de  s'assurer  Tempire  des  mers  et  qui  n'y  renonce  ni 

^'y  renoncera  jamais,  se  sent  press^e  de  se  crcJer  une  arm^e  de 

t^rre   qui   la   mette   au   niveau   des   puissances   militaires   de 

premier  ordre.     Elle  se  prepare  a  de  nouveaux,  a  d'immenses 

^^crifices ;  elle  va  jusqu'a  envisager  la  possibility  du  service 

c^bligatoire     et     universel,    cette    revolution    qui    menacerait 

^'existence    mfime   du   regime   parlementaire    et    des   libert6s 

britanniques.     Et  ainsi,  chacune  de  ces  deux  puissances  im- 

p^riales,  reine  dans  sa  sphere  et  deja  pouss^e  a  un  antagonisme 

fatal  par  le  d^sir  et  le  besoin  de  mesurer  des  forces  de  nature 


190  COSMOPOLIS. 

diverse  et  de  savoir  qui  Temporterait  de  rarm6e  de  Moltke  ou 
de  la  flotte  de  Nelson,  se  sent  a  cette  heure  entrain^e  par  les 
destins  hors  de  son  616ment,  contrainte  d'ajouter  a  son 
domaine  propre  celui  qu'elle  n'a  pas  et  ou  I'autre  domine,  et 
marche  ainsi,  d'un  pas  de  somnambule  et  sans  que  les  hommes 
d'Etat,  les  publicistes  ou  les  penseurs  semblent  en  avoir  con- 
science, vers  une  rencontre  et  un  conflit  au  prix  duquel  les 
luttes  d'h6g6monie  de  Sparte  et  d'Athfenes,  de  la  France  et  de 
TEspagne,  de  la  France  et  de  I'Autriche,  n'auront  6t6  que  des 
jeux  d'enfants. 

La  est  rint6r^t  supreme,  je  dirais  volontiers  le  pathetique 
incomparable  du  spectacle  auquel  nous  assistons.  Vraiment 
le  plus  romantique  des  hommes  ne  saurait  se  plaindre  :  a 
c6t6  de  la  com6die  —  et  les  adieux  de  Kiel  nous  Tont  donn6e 
copieuse  et  presque  aristophanesque  dans  sa  prodigieuse  in- 
conscience  —  nous  voyons  la  trag6die  monter  a  Thorizon 
qu'elle  promet  d'empourprer  des  feux  d*un  sanglant  coucher 
de  soleil. 

Francis  de  Pressensk. 


Direcieur:  F.  Ortmans. 


WARTEN. 


Die  Beiden  sahen  zum  Fenster  hinaus,  weit  vorgebeugt.  Unten 

Lus  der  Haustiir  kam  der  Mann  der  einen,  der  beste  Freund 

hrer  jungen  Sch wester.     Er  ging  schleppend,  die  Augen  am 

Boden,  mit  hangenden  Armen.     So  stieg  er  die  flache  Stufe 

linab,  die  von  dem  steingepflasterten  kurzen  Hausweg  auf  die 

>trasse  fuhrt,  dort  stand  er  eine  Sekunde  wie  zweifelnd.     Und 

lann  mit  denselben  miiden  Schritten  wandte  er  sich  langsam 

lach  rechts  hin,  die  gewohnte  Strasse  der  Stadt  zu. 

"  Er  hat  sich  nicht  einmal  umgesehen/'  sagte  die  Frau. 

Ihre  Schwester  gab  keine  Antwort ;  druckte  ihren  Arm  niir 

sster. 

"  Was  glaubst  du,  Elma,  was  kann  es  denn  sein  ?     Er  kann 

Dch  nicht  krank  sein  von  gestern  auf  heute  ?     Oder  nein,  es 

t  langer.     Vor   einer    Woche   schon   einmal,   am   Sonntag. 

"eisst  du  noch  ?  Dii  hattest  den  grossen  Strauss  von  Wiesen- 

imen    von    deinem  Spazirgang  nach   Hause   gebracht,  da 

gte  er  dich,  wie  du  dich  an  so  nichtigen  Dingen  vergnugen 

intest  und  sah  dich  so  sonderbar  dabei  an.     Glaubst  du, 

s  ihn    damals   schon  dasselbe   qualte  ?      Und   was  ist  es 

a  ?  etwas  im  Geschiift  ?     Das  konnte  er   uns   sagen.     Er 

>  doch  wissen,  dass,  wenn   wir  morgen  ganz  arm  werden 

^en,  bettelarm,  ich  mir  auch  nicht  viel  draus  machte,  so 

2r  mich  lieb  hat.     Oder  hat  er  mich  nicht  mehr  lieb  ?  hat 

e  andere  gefunden  ?  Haltst  du  das  fur  moglich  ?  So  sprich 

2in  Wort  !  " 

1,  was  ich  fur  moglich  halte.  .  .  ." 
du,  du  stehst  da  mit  ruhigen  Augen  und  begreifst  mich 
nd  findest  noch,  ich  iibertreibe." 
sagte  das  nie." 


192  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  So  sehe  ich  clir's  an." 

*'  Ottilie,  du  irrst  'lich.  Sieli  micli  nur  recht  an.  Ich  tadle 
dich  nicht,  denn  ich.  ...  ich  selber.  .  .  ." 

"Du  angstigst  dich  auch  !  "  Die  junge  Frau  griff  mitbeiden 
Handen  sich  an  den  Kopf.  **  Sprich  das  nicht  aus,  ich  will  es, 
nicht  horen,  ich  ertrage  es  nicht,  verstehst  du  ?  Du  sollst 
dich  nicht  angstigen,  du  sollst  nicht ! " 

Elma  schwieg. 

Aber  die  Sch wester  nahtn  sie  bei  den  Schultern  und  schut- 
telte  sie  ein  paarmal  bin  und  her  :  '*  Du  angstigst  dich  auch  ? 
1st  das  wahr  ?  wovor  ?  " 

"  Ich  weiss  nicht,"  sagte  das  Madchen  tonlos. 

''  Du  kennst  ihn  doch  nicht  so.  Du  kannst  garnicht  wissen 
wie  anders  er  ist,  wie  unsagbar  anders.  Was  kann  es  nur 
sein  ?  Hast  du  gesehn,  wie  blass  er  aussah  ?  Seine  Augen 
lagen  ganz  tief  in  ihren  Hohlen.  Und  als  er  mir  die  Hand 
gab,  war  sie  feucht  und  kalt  und  zitterte.  Hast  du  das 
bemerkt  ? " 

**  |a,"  sagte  die  Schwester. 

"  Was  heisst  es  denn,  was  denkst  du  dir  denn  ?  Ich  bat 
ihn,  zum  Arzt  zu  gehen.  Er  sagte,  er  wollte  es  tun,  wenn  es 
mich  freute.  So  ruhig,  so  gleichgiltig  sagte  er  das.  Sonst 
hiitte  er  mich  mit  meiner  Aengstlichkeit  verspottet  und  sich 
geweigert.  Heute  sagte  er  in  mildem  Ton  :  wie  du  willst.  — 
Glaubst  du,  es  fehlt  ihm  etwas  ?  Glaubst  du,  er  angstigt  sich 
selbst  ?  Ist  es  denn  ernst,  so  ernst,  dass  er  ..." 

"  Ich  weiss  nicht,"  murnielte  wieder  die  Schwester. 

Die  andere  fing  an  durch  das  Zimmer  zu  gehen,  vom 
Fenster  zum  Ofen  und  wieder  zuriick.  Die  Kinderfrau  kam 
und  fragte,  ob  die  beiden  Kleinen  jetzt  ausgehen  sollten. 
''  Jetzt  oder  spater  1 "  rief  die  Mutter,  "  wie  Sie  wollen,  mir  ist 
es  gleich."  — Als  aber  die  treue  alte  Person  mit  einem  erstaunten 
Blick  sie  ansah  und  dann  zur  Tiir  ging,  sich  nochmals  umsah 
und  endlich  fort  war,  da  brach  sie  zusammen.  An  dem  Hals 
der  Schwester  lag  sie  und  schluchzte  und  weinte  fassungslos ; 
"  Hilf  mir,  hilf  ihm  !  Gibt's  denn  keine  Rettung  ?  Er  soil 
nicht  sterben,  horst  du  ?  Er  soil  nicht.  Sonst  sterbe  ich  auch. 
Nein,  ich  mochte  jetzt  schon  tot  sein.  Ihn  nicht  wiedersehn, 
und  den  Tag  nicht,  nur  das  nicht  erleben,  das  nicht,  das  nicht» 


Warten.  I93 

das  Furchterliche  !..."  — Und  plotzlich  stiess  sie  die  Schwester 
von  sich  und  stand  vor  ihr  mit  flammenden  Augen  :  '*  Was  ist 
es  denn,  dies  Furchterliche  ?  weisst  du  es  ?  So  sag's  mir  ! 
Alias  lieber,  als  diese  Angst,  diese  tappende  Ungewissheit  ! 
Alles,  sage  'ich  dir  :  Elend,  Schande,  Verbrechen,  Tod."  — 
Und  wieder  ging  sie  von  ihr  fort  und  durch  das  Zimmer  und 
rang  ihre  schlanken  schmalen  Hande  und  stand  wieder  vor  ihr 
und  ting  von  neuem  an  zu  fragen,  zu  sprechen,  zu  klagen. 
Dem  jungen  Madchen  war  jedes  Wort  wie  ein  Schlag  mit  dem 
Beil,  der  sie  mitten  vor  die  Brust  traf.  Sie  hielt  ganz  still  und 
stand  ganz  still  und  sagte  nicht  viel.  Manchmal  ertappte  sie 
sich  daraufy  dass  ihre  Gcdanken,  wahrend  jene  die  entferntesten 
Moglichkeiten  zusammensuchte,  auf  ganz  anderen  Wegen 
gingen.  Sie  warf  es  sich  vor  und  suchte  nun  besser 
zuzuhoren. 

"  Er  hat  einen  Brief  vor  etwa  drei  Tagen  aus  Paris  erhalten. 

Das  habe   ich    gesehen.     Ich   weiss,   er    hat    dort  eine  alte 

Freundin,  die  ihn  geliebt  hat,  oder  er  sie,  lang  bevor  wir  uns 

kannten.      Wenn  in  dem  Brief  nun  ein  Gift  gewesen  ware, — 

€s  gibt    solche    Sachen,  das  ist  kein  Marchen,  ich  weiss,  es 

gibt    das,  —  und  es  ware  ihm  entgegen  geflogen,  wie  er  das 

Couvert  aufriss,  und  er  hatte  es  eingeatmet,  eingesogen  und 

vergeht  nun  daran  ?  " 

**  Eriinde  dir  doch  nicht  solche  tollen  Unmoglichkeiten  ! " 

**  Du  hast  recht,  es  ist  unwahrscheinlich.  Aber  wenn  es 
Joch  ware  ?  " 

**Warum  willst  du  dich  quiilen  mit  etwas,  was  du  einmal 
J^lesen  hast  ?     Was  ist,  ist  schlimm  genug  schon  allein." 

**  Ja,  du  !  mit  deinem  vielgeruhmten  starken  Geist,  deiner 
'^txhle,  deinem  Druberstehen.  Du  bist  nicht  seine  Frau. 
"-^u  hast  ihn  lieb,  recht  sehr  lieb,  das  weiss  ich.  Aber  du 
^Urdest  ganz  gut  weiterleben  konnen,  selbst  wenn  er..." 

Elma  sagte  nicht,  was  ihr  auf  der  Zunge  schwebte  :  Auch 
^u  wirst  das  miissen.  — 

**  Was  glaubst  du  denn  ?     Sprich  doch  einmal  !     Ist's  eine 

^rankheit  ?    ist's  ein  Kummer,  der  plotzlich    ihn    iiberfallen 

W  ?    Er  ging  so  fort  wie  alle  Tage.     Werden  wir  ihn  wieder- 

sehen  heute  Abend,  wie  alle  Tage,  oder  ?  oder  ?  ...  was  denkst 

du  ?  So  sprich  doch  I  " 

VOL.  IX.— NO,  XXV.  13 


194  cosMOPOLls. 

Elma  machte  leise  die  Hiinde  ihrer  Schwester  von  ihrem 
Arm  los,  den  jene  gepackt  hielt.  "  Ich  weiss  nicht,  ich  kann 
nicht.     Mir  ist  so  trocken,  ich  kann  nicht  sprechen..." 

Sie  ging  aus  dem  Zimmer  iind  iiber  den  halbdunklen  Flur 
hiniiber  in  ihr  eignes  Jungmadchenstubchen,  mit  den  hellen, 
gebliimten  Vorhiingen,  den  hellen  Mobein,  Bildern,  Photo- 
graphien,  Fachern,  den  hundert  Nippsachen  an  den  Wanden. 
Unwillkurlich  drehte  sie  den  Schliissel  im  Schloss  um.  Sie 
stand  noch  eine  Sekunde  mit  angehaltenem  Atem,  horchend. 
Es  regte  sich  nichts,  die  Schwester  schien  ihr  nicht  nachzu- 
kommen.  Ein  Aufatmen  durchzitterte  ihre  Gestalt.  Und 
als  das  Einzige,  was  sie  mit  ihrer  unbeobachteten  Freiheit 
zu  beginnen  wusste,  Hess  sic  sich,  wo  sie  stand,  zu  Boden 
fallen,  das  Gesicht  aiif  die  Arme  gebettet  und  lag  da  ganz 
still. 

Ottilie  hatte  es  gut  im  Vergleich,  die  konnte  alle  ihre 
Schmerzen  laut  herausschreien  und  klagen.  Sie  aber  musste 
sich  zusammennehmen,  die  Schwester  zu  schonen,  musste  die 
Angst  fiir  sich  behalten  und  hatte  keinen,  bei  dem  sie  sich 
recht  ausjammern  durfte.  Sie  gait  fiir  kuhl.  Vielleicht  war 
sie  es  auch.  Es  schien  ihr  das  Alles  ja  garnicht  neu,  sie 
kannte  das  Ungluck,  es  war  ihr,  als  hatte  sie  als  Kind  es  schon 
durchgemacht.  Freilich  das  damals  war  nur  wenig  gegen  das 
jetzt.  Wenn  sie  nur  erst  wusste,  was  das  "  das "  sei,  was 
ihnen  beiden  heut  noch  bevorstand.  Was  Otti  da  von  einem 
Briefgift  gefabelt,  war  Unsinn.  Aber  doch,  welch  ein  tucki- 
sches,  plotzliches  Gift  hatte  den  kraftigen  Mann  befallen, 
dass  er  wie  ein  Todkranker  schleichend  dahin  ging  ?  Und 
wie  er  ihr  die  Hand  gegeben,  so  willenlos  schlaff  und  seine 
muden,  blicklosen  Augen.  .  .  .  Wenn  er  stirbt,  dann  sind  sie 
wieder  allein,  sie  zwei  Sch western.  Nein,  Ottiliens  Kinder  sind 
da,  die  miissen  auferzogen  werden.  Ueberhaupt  man  muss 
weiterleben.  Nur  anders  als  bisher,  unter  einem  Druck,  im 
Finstern.  Man  kann  so  leben.  Nach  dem  Tode  der  Eltern, 
— sie  weiss  noch  heute  die  schwarzen  Kleider,  die  sie  trugen, 
—  waren  sie  von  ihren  fremden  Verwandten,  denn  nahere 
Angehorige  besassen  sie  nicht,  freundlich  aufgenommen 
worden  :  Die  armen  Kleinen  sind  in  Trauer,  hiess  es,  fiihrt 
sie  in  das  Hinterzimmer,  dass  hier  der  Geburtstagslarm  und 


WARtfeN.  t95 

der  Trubel  sie  nicht  stort.  Sie  war  damals  sieben  Jahr  alt 
gewesen  ;  es  ist  an  funfzehn  Jahre  her.  .  .  .  Fiihrt  sie  in  das 
Hinterzimmer,  sie  hort  es  noch. 

Und  sie  richtet  sich  auf  und  sie  schiittelt  sich — das  ist 
kindisch,  sich  so  vor  einem  Ungliick  zu  fiirchten,  noch  ehe 
es  da  ist.  Vielleicht  kommt  es  garnicht.  Vielleicht  ist  es  doch 
anders,  ist  geringer,  als  sie  Beide  jetzt  denken.  Aber  oh,  wenn 
es  doch  so  ware  und  heute  kame  es  und  risse  sie  fort  aus  dem 
Licht,  aus  dem  Gluck  und  es  hiesse  wieder :  ins  Hinterzimmer 
mit  Euch  und  fur  immer  1  — 

Dass  ihr  zum  ersten  Mai  wieder  warm  ums  Herz  geworden, 
das  war  gewesen,  als  er  zu  ihr  hineinkam,  Richard  Lich- 
tenthin,  in  ihr  Schulzimmerchen,  wo  sie  mit  dem  Fraulein 
bei  der  Lampe  sass  und  ihre  Aufgaben  abschrieb.  Er  nahm 
ihre  Hand,  als  sie  erstaunt  aufsah.  "  Kleine  Elma,  ich  mochte 
mich  gern  mit  deiner  Schwester  Ottilie  verloben,  aber  erst 
muss  ich  dich  um  Erlaubnis  fragen,  du  bist  ihr  die  Nachste. 
Nun,  willst  du  mich  zum  Bruder  haben  ?  " 

Er  hat  so  viel  Licht  in  seinem  Namen,  das  macht  hell  und 
behaglich, — hatte  sie  nachher  gesagt,  zur  Erklarung  und 
gleichsam  Entschuldigung  ihrer  raschen  Freundschaft  mit 
dem  Schwager.  Denn  sonst  war  sie  nicht  so  leicht  gewonnen, 
und  die  Verwandten,  die  das  Kind  nun  doch  seit  Jahren  im 
Hause  batten,  und  selbst  Ottilie  wunderten  sich.  Es  war  aber 
so  einfach.  Weil  er  eben  der  erste  Mensch  war,  der  sie  auch 
wie  einen  Menschen  behandelt  hatte. — Nicht  wie  ein  armes 
Kind,  nicht  wie  ein  Schulmadchen,  nicht  wie  eine  elternlose 
Waise,  die  ins  halbdunkle  Hinterzimmer  ihr  ganzes  Leben- 
lang  trubselig  verbannt  bleibt,  sondern  wie  ein  gleichberech- 
tigtes,  denkendes,  verniinftiges  Wesen  : 

"  Willst  du  mich  zu  deinem  Bruder  ?  " 

Und  so  war's  geblieben,  durch  die  zwolf  Jahre.  Ihr  bester 
Freund,  ihr  Vertrauter,  Vater  und  Bruder  in  einer  Person. 
Ihm  hatte  sie  alle  ihre  Jungenmadchensorgen,  erste  Liebe  und 
Enttauschung  und  Wollen  und  Streben  vertrauen  diirfen, 
hatte  ihm  ihr  heimlichstes  Fiihlen  offener  gestanden  als  selbst 
der  Schwester.  Und  immer  hatte  er  ihr  beigestanden,  und 
immer  war  von  ihm  Rat  und  Kraft  und  ruhige  Heiterkeit  und 
frischer  Lebensmut  gekommen.     Nur  neulich,  es  war  keine 


196  (iOSMOPOLIS. 

Woche  noch  her,  da  war  sie  zu  ihm  hineingegangen  und  hatte 
ihn  an  seinem  Schreibtisch  gefunden,  vor  ihm  ein  Brief, 
vielleicht  der  aus  Paris,  der  Ottilie  beunruhigt  hatte,  und  er 
zuruckgelehnt  in  den  Sessel,  beide  Arme  auf  den  Lehnen,  die 
Hande  ausgespreizt  mit  hangenden  Fingern.  Und  als  sie  zu 
ihm  kam  und  sprechen  woUte,  da... 

"  Um  Gotteswillen,  Richard,  was   ist  dir  ? "    hatte  sie  ihn 
angerufen. 

Er  hatte  nur  den  Kopf  geschiittelt.     "  Nichts." 

Und  als  sie  in  ihn  drang,  wies  er  sie  von  sich. 

**  Geh,  lass  mich,  ich  kann  nicht,  lass  mich  in  Ruhe." 

Sie  hatte  Otti  nichts  davon  gesagt.  Sie  hatte  es  wie  eine 
Schande  beinahe  vor  sich  selber  verheimlicht.  Dass  Richard 
Geheimnisse  haben  konnte,  Verstimmungen,  Launen,  Nerven 
wie  Andere,  es  war  etwas  so  Ungewohntes,  so  Unwahrschein- 
fiches.  Zwolf  Jahre  neben  einem  Menschen  sollten  ihn 
kennen  lehren.  Aber  seine  eigne  Frau  wusste  nicht,  was  in 
ihm  vorging.  Wie  sollte  sie's  wissen  !  Dabei  fiel  ihr  ein,  dass 
sie  nicht  die  Erste  und  Nachste  sei,  die  von  dem,  was  ihn  traf, 
betroffen  wurde.  Otti !  Sie  warf  sich  den  Egoismus  vor,  mit 
dem  sie  die  Schwester  verlassen  hatte,  nur  um  ihren  eignen 
Gedanken  nachzuhangen.  Und  indem  sie  voUends  sich 
aufraffte,  sich  das  Haar  glatt  strich,  die  Augen  trocknete,  stand 
sie  doch  wieder  eine  Sekunde  und  fiihlte  nur  ihr  eignes 
Bangen,  ihr  eignes  Herzklopfen  und  Grauen  vor  dem,  was 
nicht  war,  sondern  werden  musste. 

Sie  fand  die  Schwester  nicht  in  ihrem  Zimmer,  sondern 
nebenan  bei  Richard  am  Schreibtisch  sitzend.  Das  Ldschheft 
lag  aufgeschlagen  vor  ihr,  sie  versuchte  auf  dem  Blatt,  das  von 
Tintenstrichen  kreuz  und  quer  durchtrankt  war,  diese  mit 
einem  Bleistift  vorsichtig  nachzuziehn  und  zu  verbinden.  Sie 
ward  nicht  einmal  rot,  als  Elma  zu  ihr  trat,  sondern  gab  ihr 
den  Stift  und  sagte  : 

"  Probire  du  es." 

"  Und  wenn  wir  uns  nun  wirklich  in  seine  Geheimnisse  steh- 
len  und  ihm  abhorchen,  was  er  uns  verbergen  woUte,  was 
wird  davon  besser  ?  Es  gibt  uns  nicht  sein  Vertrauen 
zuruck  und  wird  uns  schwerlich  ein  Mittel  sagen,  ihm  zu 
helfen." 


WARTEN.  197 

"  Gleichviel,  ich  will  es  wissen,  ich  muss  es  wissen.     Sieh  zu, 
ob  du  lesen  kannst,  was  da  steht." 

"  Da  steht :  Liebe  Elma." 

"  1st  das  wahr  ?  " 

"  Ja  sieh  dir's  selbst  an." 

*'  Liebe  Elma !  Und  die  Reihe  darunter  was  soil  das 
heissen  ?  " 

"  Du  bist  die  Einzige,  der  ich...  ich  beschwore  dich... 
Otti...  Otti...  und  die  armen  Kinder../' 

"  Nein,"  rief  Ottilie  laut  aufschluchzend, "  das  ist  nicht  wahr. 
X)as  kann  nicht  da  stehen,  er  kann  nicht  an  dich  geschrieben 
liaben,  er  hat  das  nicht  geschrieben." 

Das  Blatt  mit  seinen  Tintenstrichen  und  Flecken  lag  vor 
ihnen  beiden,  wie  ein  Anklager,  der  ihnen  den  lieben,  teuren 
Menschen  verunglimpfen  wollte. 

"  Was  hat  er  denn  dir  anzuvertrauen,  dir,  so  einem  jungen 
Ding  !    Was  weisst  du  vom  Leben  !     Von  dem  Leben,  das 

ein  Mann  fuhrt !     Ich  bin  seine  Frau.     Und  wenn  er  etwas 

« 

Unrechtes  tat,  so  kommt's  darauf  an,  dass  ich  ihm  verzeihe. 
Aber  ich  verzeihe  ihm  Alles,  horst  du  wol,  alles,  alles,  alles  ! " 
Elma  sah  nach  der  Uhr  :  "  Wo  ist  er  jetzt  ?  " 
"  Er  hat  nichts  gesagt.    Wahrscheinlich  wird  er  im  Comtoir 
sein,  wie  jeden  Tag.     Was  willst  du  von  ihm  ?  " 
"  Ihm  das  sagen,  dass  du  ihm  alles  verzeihst." 
Es  klopfte,  wahrend  sie  noch  sprachen.     Das  Madchen  kam 
herein  :    "  Herr  Germann  lasst    fragen,  ob  der  Herr    heute 
nicht  zur  Stadt  kommen  werde  ?  " 

Herr  Germann  war  der  Prokurist.     Richard  war  also  nicht 

im  Comtoir. — Elma  lief  selbst  ans  Telephon,  um  das  deutlich 

^u    horen.     Sie  durfte  dabei    dem    fremden   Menschen   ihre 

Angst    nicht    verraten.  — "  Mein    Schwager  ging    vor    zwei 

Stunden   von  uns.      Ist  er  noch  nicht  dort  ?      Nein  ?     Sie 

wissen  nicht,  dass  er  etwas  Besonderes  zu  tun   hatte  heute  ? 

und  wissen  Sie  auch  nicht,  wohin  er  moglicherweise  gegangen 

sein  konnte  ?   Nichts,  nein,  garnichts.  —  Man  kann  nur  warten. 

Naturlich,  er  wird  wol  nachstens  kommen.     Nicht  wahr,  Sie 

lassen  es   uns  gleich   wissen,  augenblickiich,   sobald  er  dort 

ist !  "— 

Sie  stand  noch  mit  demiHorrohr  in  ihrer  Hand^  nachdem 


198  COSMOPOLIS. 

der  driiben  langst  abgestellt  hatte,  als  oh  ihr  aus  dein  braunen 
Kasten  doch  noch  irgend  eine  trostliche  Botschaft  zukommen 
konnte.  Dann  hangte  sie's  auf.  Sie  musste  zu  Ottilie.  Sie 
musste.  So  schleppte  sie  sich  uber  den  Corridor  zuruck, 
zwang  sich,  die  Hand  auf  den  Drucker  zu  legen,  die  Tur  zu 
offnen,  durch  die  sie  zu  der  Schwester  hineinkam.  Die  aber 
fragte  nicht  einmal,  was  Elma  erfahren  habe  : 

"  Ich  wusste  es,"  sagte  sie  nur  leise. 

Und  dann  sprachen  sie  nicht  weiter.  Die  Eine  dort,  an 
Richards  Schreibtisch,  die  Andere  daneben  auf  dem  Stroh- 
schaukelstuhl,  auf  dem  sie  so  oft  ihm  gegeniibergesessen  hatte 
und  sich  wolig  gewiegt,  wahrend  er  plauderte  und  rauchte ; 
so  sassen  sie  und  warteten.  Wie  lang  und  auf  was  ?  Ottilie 
brutete  vor  sich  hin,  die  Aufregung  war  von  ihr  gewichen  mit 
der  Gewissheit ;  sie  schien  wie  erstarrt  in  bewusstloser  stumpfer 
Verzweiflung.  Aber  als  hatten  sie  ihre  Charaktere  vertauscht, 
so  unruhig  war  Elma  jetzt.  Sie  konnte  und  wollte  sich 
nicht  in  das  Ungliick  ergeben.  Dass^  sie  nicht  an  Richard 
dachte,  nicht  an  das,  was  er  litt,  empfand  sie  selbst  als  Herz- 
losigkeit.  Sie  hasste  ihn,  weil  er  sie  leiden  machte  und 
zugleich  bangte  ihr  doch  nur  vor  dem,  was  ihm  zugestossen 
sein  konnte,  bangte  ihr  so,  dass  es  sie  schiittelte,  wie  im  Fieber. 
Kann  man  krank  werden  aus  Angst,  dass  ein  Anderer  krank 
werden  konnte  ?  Wenn  sie  jetzt  hinschlagt  und  stirbt  vor 
Entsetzen  ?  —  Arme  Otti !  sollte  sie  auch  das  noch  erleben  ?  — 
Nein,  es  heisst  sich  zusammennehmen,  Widerstand  leisten, 
nicht  erliegen  ! 

'*  Otti/'  —  sie  muss  sich  ein  paar  Mai  erst  rauspern,  so  ein- 
gerostet  ist  ihr  die  Stimme,  —  "  Otti,  hore,  wir  konnen  nicht  die 
Hande  nur  in  den  Schoss  legen,  wir  miissen  etwas  tun,  irgend 
etwas,  ihm  zu  helfen." 

"  Was  willst  du  tun  ?  " 

"Vor  allem,  ihn  suchen." 

"  Wie  denkst  du  dir  das  ?  Auf  die  Polizei  gehen,  ihn  als 
verloren  anmelden  ?  " 

*'  Nein,  nein,  entsetzlich  !  ich  meinte  nur.  .  .  ." 

"  Es  ist  nichts  zu  tun.  Er  ist  gestern  nach  Hause  gekom- 
men,  mit  dem  Gesicht.  Und  hat  bei  uns  am  Tisch  gesessen, 
—  mit  dem   Gesicht !    Er  hat  die  Kinder  noch  gekusst  ?ur 


WARTEN.  190 

Guten  Nacht.  Als  ich  fragte  :  Richard,  was  ist  dir  ?  sagte  er  : 
nichts.  Er  schickte  mich  zu  Belt.  Ich  lag  dadrinnen.  £r 
war  hier  im  Zimmer.  Ueber  den  Vorplatz  und  durch  zwei 
Tiiren,  weiter  hatte  ich  nicht  bis  zu  ihm.  Und  doch  konnte 
ich  ihm  nicht  helfen,  —  wie  soilte  ich's  jetzt  konnen  ?  Wenn  er 
iiicht  sprechen  will,  was  hilft's,  ihn  zu  fragen  ?  Und  wenn  er 
fort  will  und  nicht  mehr  kann,  nicht  derselbe  mehr  sein 
Icann.  .  .  ." 

"  Also  du  glaubst.  .  .  ." 

"  Ich  glaube  garnichts.  Was  es  1st,  das  kann  ich  nicht 
x.vissen.    Aber  ich  weiss,  dass  ein  Ungliick  da  ist." 

"  Und  ergibst  dich  darein  !  Sei  nicht  so  geduldig.  Warum 
ssollten  wir  denn  plotzlich  ungliicklich  werden  ?  Was  gibt's 
cdenn,  was  Euch  von  einander  scheiden  durfte,  wenn  Ihr  nicht 
'v\'ollt,  wenn  du  nicht  willst  und  dich  wehrst  und  ihn  festhaltst." 

•'  Wie  soUte  ich  das  m^chen  ?  " 

"  Ehi  musst  es  konnen." 

"  Wie  du  sprichst.  Als  ob  das  so  leicht  ware.  Ihn  suchen, 
x.venn  er  nicht  gefunden  sein  will ! " 

"  Zu  seinem  Advokaten  konnten  wir  doch  gehen,  zum  Arzt, 
^u  Freunden,  um  nach  ihm  zu  fragen." 

"  Und  wenn  er  sich  eines  Bessern  besonne  und  kame  zuriick 
i!5U  mir,  genesen,  wieder  er  selbst  —  und  ich  hatte  inzwischen 
xnit  Doktor  Gaspers  oder  mit  dem  Prokuristen  oder  sonst  mit 
irgend  jemandem  davon  gesprochen,  hatte  verraten,  was  er 
xiicht  einmal  mir  anvertraut  hat,  meinst  du,  er  wiirde  es  mir 
jemals  vergeben  ?  " 

**  Aber  ich  kann  es  nicht  ertragen,  so  still  zu  halten  und  zu 
^varten,  bis  das  Unheil  heran  kommt." 

'*  Du  ! "  sagte  Ottilie. 

Darauf  wusste  ihr  Elma  keine  Antwort.  Und  so  sassen  sie 
Avieder,  jene  dort,  sie  hier  und  warteten  weiter.  Die  Standuhr 
auf  dem  Schreibtisch  tickte.  Die  Zeiger  riickten  vor.  Durch 
die  Strasse  fuhr  ein  Wagen,  hielt  nicht  am  Haus  an,  rollte 
voruber.  Dann  ein  anderer,  dann  ein  dritter,  klappernder, 
leichter.     Der  hielt. 

"  Du  brauchst  nicht  nachzusehen,"  sagte  Ottilie,  "  es  ist  der 
Milch  man  n  "    , 

Und  Elma,  die  schon  in  die  Hohe  gefahren  war,  an's  Funster 


200  COSMOPOLIS. 

gelaufen,  kehrte  zuriick  und  setzte  sich  wieder.  Nein,  sie 
hatte  nicht  erst  nachzusehen  brauchen.  Das  leichte  Gefahrt 
mit  den  hangenden  Eimern,  die  beim  Pahren  hin-  und 
herschwankend  klapperten,  man  wusste  von  weitem  ja  schon, 
was  das  war.  Und  nun  ein  schwerer  rumpelnder  Kasten,  — 
der  Postwagen.  Und  nun  ein  ein  rasselnder  und  rascher,  —  der 
brachte  Bier.  Elma  kannte  den  Klang  eines  jeden.  Wieso  ? 
S^t  wann  ?  sie  wusste  es  nicht,  sie  hatte  noch  nie  so  dage- 
sessen,  horchend,  zitternd,  ihr  ganzes  Sein  im  Ohr  konzen- 
trirend,  jetzt !  angstschaudernd,  —  er  rollt  um  die  Ecke,  er 
ist's,  er  kommt,  sie  bringen  die  Nachricht  von  seinem  Tode, 
bringen  ihn  selbst.  —  Und  jetzt  —  nein,  das  war  nichts,  der 
Wagen  rollt  weiter.  Das  Herz  klopft  ihr  noch.  Aber  die 
Gefahr  ist  vorubergegangen,  fur  dieses  Mai.  .  .  . 

Ob  Ottilie  auch,  wahrend  sie  so  dasitzen  und  horchen  und 
warten,  beobachtet,  wie  es  in  ihr  klopft  und  gleichsam  mit 
sich  eine  Prufung  abhalt  auf  jeden  Ton,  den  sie  kennt  oder 
nicht  kennt  ?  Wie  viele  Stunden,  wie  viele  Tage  sind  denn 
so  vorubergegangen,  seit  sie  warten  ?  Ist  es  wirklich,  nur 
seit  diesem  Morgen,  dass  sie  beide  nicht  etwas  anderes  denken, 
nicht  etwas  anderes  horen  konnen,  als  die  Wagen  auf  der 
Strasse  und  die  Schritte  auf  der  Treppe  und  das  Klingeln  der 
Haustur  ?  —  Dazwischen  war  das  Friihstiick  mit  den  Kindern, 
wie  jeden  Tag.  Ottilie  hatte  ihnen  das  Fleisch  kleingeschnit- 
ten,  auf  ihre  Fragen  Antwort  gegeben,  gelachelt  zu  ihren 
kindischen  Zartlichkeiten.  Das  kann  man,  wenn  man  Mutter 
ist ;  man  muss  es  sogar.  Elma  bewunderte  ihre  Schwester. 
Sie  konnte  es  nicht.  Die  Lippen  sind  ihr  wie  zusammen- 
gefroren,  so  hart  und  trocken  ;  dass  sie  je  im  Leben  wieder 
sich  zu  einem  Lacheln  offnen  sollten,  sie  kann  sich's  nicht 
vorstellen,  es  wiirde  nur  ein  Grinsen  werden,  verzerrt  und 
hasslich. 

Eine  Dame  kam  zum  Besuch.  Ottilie  hatte  nicht  daran 
gedacht,  sich  verleugnen  zu  lassen.  Nun  sitzen  sie  mit  der 
Fremden  und  plaudern.  Ganz  ruhig,  mit  ganz  gewohnlichen 
Stimmen.  Als  ob  nichts  geschehen  ware,  nichts  geschehen 
konnte.  Das  Heucheln  gehort,  so  scheint  es,  zum  Leben. 
Man  lernt  auch  das  wol.  Nur  lernt  sie's  nicht  gut.  Denn 
beim  Fortgehen  bleibt  die  Fremde  vor  ihr  stehen  ;  "  Liebes 


WARTEN.  201 

Fraulein  Elma,  Sie  tun  mir  so  leid  1  Ich  sah's  gleich  Ihnen 
an,  dass  Sie  in  Unruhe  sind,  in  Sorgen.  Ich  frage  nicht,  was 
es  ist.  —  Nur  —  Sie  sind  so  jung  noch  —  glauben  Sie  mir, 
man  muss  das  Leben  gleichmiitiger  nehmen.  Sons! 
zehrt  man  sich  auf  und  seine  Krafte  und  andert  doch 
nichts  ! " 

Ottilia  hat  den  geehrten  Besuch  noch  hdflich  hinausgeleitet 
und  kommt  zuriick  und  kniet  nieder  am  Schreibtisch  und  legt 
ihren  Kopf  an  die  scharfe  Ecke,  so  miide,  und  weint  nicht 
einmal.  Elma  wirft  sich  auf  sie  und  kQsst  sie  und  kiisst  sie 
und  schluchzt :  "  O,  du,  du,  ich  bin  nicht  so  gut.  Ich  habe 
ihn  nicht  halb  so  lieb.  Ich  will  mich  nicht  so  ungliicklich 
machen  lassen,  ich  will  nicht,  dass  er  dich  ungliicklich 
macht ! " 

"  Wollen  I  Ich  will  es  ganz  gewiss  nicht,"  spricht  Ottilie, 
"  aber,  wenn  er  unglucklich  ist  ?  Dann  werden  wir's  auch. 
Es  lasst  sich  nicht  andern.     Es  ist  einmal  so." 

Und  wieder  die  Stille. 

Entwedcr  in  der  nachsten  Minute  geschieht  etwas, — und 
ware  es  das  Schlimmste,  die  argste  Gewissheit,  sie  ware  ja  wie 
eine  Eriosung  aus  dieser  Qual  I  —  oder  ..."  Oder  ich  muss 
wahnsinnig  werden,"  denkt  sich  Elma,  "  und  das  Herz 
zerspringt  mir  in  Stiicke  und  das  Hirn  birst  mir  auseinander, 
vor  Denken,  vor  Angst...  Und  wenn  er  nun  kommt  zur 
gewohnten  Stunde  —  es  wird  bald  so  weit  sein,  zur  Tischzeit, 
wie  einen  jeden  Tag,  und  spricht  ganz  ruhig  :  Ich  war  nicht 
wol  heute  Morgen,  ich  ging  zum  Arzt,  er  hat  mir  geholfen  — 
und  alles  war'  gut  ? — Es  ist  ja  moglich.  Es  gibt  solche  Angst- 
anfalle,  die  trugen.  Es  gibt  auch  das,  dass  ein  Ungluck  ein- 
mal nicht  eintrifit,  es  gibt  das  wol,  aber.  .  .  .  Und  doch, 
wenn,  wenn  das  noch  moglich  ware  1 " — 

Da  —  ein  Ton  1  Haben  sie  beide  den  Wagen  iiberhoren 
kdnnen  ?  Er  kam  um  die  Ecke,  fuhr  vor,  er  halt  schon.  Sie 
sind  an  der  Haustur,  bevor  sie  es  denken,  sie  reissen  die 
Tur  auf  und  stehen  und  warten  noch  diese  letzte  schwerste 
Sekunde.  "Mut  1"  sagt  Elma  und  greift  nach  Otti's  eiskalten 
Handen,  "  er  kommt,  er  selbst." 

Aber  wahrend  sie  das  Wort  spricht,  weiss  sie,  sie  tauscht 
sich,     Und  Ottilie  weiss  es  noch   rascher.     Das  ist  nicht 


202  COSMOPOLIS. 

Richard,  der  da  so  festen,  gleichmassigen  Schrittes  die  Stufen 
heraufkommt.     Es  ist— 

"  Fraulein  Elma,"  sagte  leise  der  Hausarzt  Doktor  Casper^, 
"  ich  bitte  Sie,  mein  liebes  Kind,  fiihren  Sie  Ihre  Schwester 
fort.  Sie  sind  ruhig  und  verstandig.  Es  ist  vorbei  und  nichts 
zu  machen.     Nur  bringen  Sie  sie  hier  aus  dem  Wege." 

Und  Elma  fnigt  nicht  was  geschehen,  sie  denkt  nicht  an 
sich  mehr.  Sie  weiss  nur,  dass  Ottilie  sie  braucht.  Sie  legt 
den  Arm  um  ihre  Schwester  und  stiitzt  sie  und  zieht  sie  mit 
sich  —  ins  Hinterzimmer.  Indem  sie  selbst  die  Tur  ins 
Schloss  druckt,  weiss  sie  erst,  was  sie  damit  tut,  dass  es  nun 
Nacht  geworden  fur  sie  beide,  und  alles  Lichte,  Sonnigc, 
Warme  aus  ihrem  Leben  ausgeloscht  ist. 

Adalhkrt  Meinhakdt. 


"ZUKIINFTSSTAATLICHES." 


Als  mir  die  Redaktion  der  Cosmopolis  den  Wunsch  aussert 
ich  moge  fQr  ihr  Blatt  "  die  Fragc  der  kiinftigen  GesellschaftJ 
ordnung  eingehend  behandeln,"  geriet  ich  in  einige  Verleger 
heit.  Denn  es  kam  mir  unwillkiirlich  die  Debatte  uber  de 
"  Zukunf tsstaat "  in  den  Sinn,  die  vor  wenigen  Jahren  i 
Deutschland  viel  Larm  gemacht  hat,  seitdem  aber  gliicklic 
eingeschlafen  ist.  Sie  wieder  aufzuwecken,  ware  torich 
Noch  kein  Mensch  hat  in  die  Zukunft  geschaut — wie  solH 
ich  kdnnen,  was  noch  Keiner  gekonnt  hat  und  was  Keine 
konnen  wird  ? 

Wer  weisSy  was  der  morgige  Tag  bringt  ?  Wer  weiss,  was  di 
nachste  Stunde,  die  nachste  Minute  bringt  ?  Man  muss  sic 
bloss  dieser  Fibelweisheit  der  Kleinkinderbewahr-Ansta 
erinnern,  um  zu  ermessen,  wie  namenlos  albern  die  Frage  riac 
dem  "  Zukunftsstaat "  ist,  mit  der  die  Sozialdemokratie  wie  m 
einer  Herkuleskeule  erschlagen  werden  sollte,  mit  der  aber  di 
Keulenschwinger  nur  sich  selber  geschlagen  haben.  Da  pas; 
so  recht  das  Sprichwort :  "  Ein  Narr  kann  mehr  fragen,  al 
hundert  Kluge  beantworten  konnen."  Und  doch  ist  die  Frag 
in  ernsthaften  Parlamenten  ernsthaft  gestellt  und  von  ems 
haften  Mannern  ernsthaft  diskutirt  worden.  Und  zwar  fast  i 
alien  Parlamenten  Europas :  im  deutschen  Reichstag,  in  dc 
franzosischen  Nationalversammlung,  in  den  Volksvertretunge 
Italians,  Belgiens,  Danemarks  u.  s.  w.  Es  ware  das  unerklai 
lich,  wenn  nicht  gerade  der  Ernst  der  sozialen  Frage  etwa 
Ueberwaltigendes,  etwas  Fascinirendes  hatte,  das  auf  di 
Denkkraft  mancher  Menschen  ahnlich  wirkt,  wie  der  Blic 
und  Anblick  der  Schlangen  auf  die  Willenskraft  angstliche 
Vogel. 

Nur  in  einem   Parlanient,  aber  dem  '*  Parlament  der  P^rli^ 


204  COSMOPOLIS. 

mente/'  dem  englischen,  hat  es  noch  keine  Zukunftsstaats- 
Debatte  gegeben  und  wird  es  voraussichtlich  auch  keine 
geben.  Und  doch  sind  die  Klassengegensatze  und  die  wirt- 
schaftlichen  Verhaltnisse,  aus  denen  heraus  die  Sphinx  dcr 
sozialen  Frage  geboren  ward,  um  sich  drauend  vor  der 
modernen  Gesellschaft  aufzurichten,  in  England  weit  scharfer 
und  weit  ausgebildeter  als  in  den  Staaten  des  europaischen 
Festlandes.  Aber  die  Englander  sind  eine  kraftige,  stark- 
nervige  Rasse,  welche  durch  die  BeschafTenheit  und  Lage  ihres 
LandeSy  durch  die  Verschiebung  des  Welthandels  nach  der 
Entdeckung  von  Amerika  und  durch  die  ganze  Entwicklung 
der  Dinge  in  Europa  fruh  zu  wirtschaftlicher  und  politischer 
Blute  gelangt  sind  und  zu  einer  Zeit,  wo  unser  amies,  zwischen 
Slaven  und  Romanen  eingepresstes  Deutschland  todwund  vom 
Dreissigjahrigen  Krieg  auf  den  Trummern  der  einstigen  Grosse 
lag,  sich  ihre  burgerliche  Freiheit  nebst  der  staatlichen  Einheit 
dauernd  begrundeten,  so  dass  an  beiden  nicht  mehr  zu 
rutteln  ist. 

So  ist,  wenn  wir  die  stammverwandten  skandinavischen 
Staaten,  mit  Holland  und  zum  Teil  auch  Belgien,  ausnehmen, 
—  die  noch  zu  wenig  ausgereiften  und  "  gesetzten  "  Vereinigten 
Staaten  von  Nordamerika  nicht  ausgenommen  —  England  das 
einzige  Land,  wo  das  Bediirfnis  und  das  Bewusstsein  politi- 
scher Freiheit  und  Gleichberechtigung  Gemeingut  aller  Klasstn 
geworden,  und  wo  die  Erkenntnis  :  "  was  dem  Einen  Recht, 
ist  dem  Anderen  billig,"  in  die  weitesten  Volkskreise  ge- 
drungen,  Inventar  des  Gesamtvolkes  geworden  ist.  Ich  bin 
lange  Jahre  in  England  gewesen  und  kenne  auch  manches 
andere  Volk,  das  meinige  nicht  zu  vergessen,  aber  ich  kenne 
kein  Volk,  dem  die  fairness  —  bezeichnenderweise  hat  keine 
andere  Sprache  ein  durchaus  den  Begriff  deckendes  Wort  — 
das  heisst  die  Achtung  vor  dem  Rechte  der  Mitmenschen,  das 
Gerechtigkeitsgefuhl,  der  Gerechtigkeitssinn,  dermaassen  in 
Fleisch  und  Blut  ubergegangen  ware,  wie  den  Englandem. 
Nie  habe  ich  einen  Englander  getroffen,  bei  dem  der  Appell 
an  seine  fairness  versagt  hatte  ;  und  nie  vergesse  ich  den  Ein- 
druck  auf  mich,  als  ich  zum  ersten  Mai  englische  Arbeiter  mit 
"  ihren  "  Arbeitgebern  verkehren  sah  und  die  vollige  Abwesen- 
heit  von  Hoffahrt  auf  der  einen,  von  Demut  auf  der  anderen 


'*  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES/'  265 

Seite  beobachtete.  Trotz  der  so  tiefen  und  breiten  okono- 
mischen  Kluft,  —  dort  tiefer  und  breiter  als  irgendwo  sonst  — 
huben  wie  driiben  das  Gefiihl  menschlicher  Gleichheit.  Nie 
hot  sich  mir  in  England  das  widerliche  Schauspiel  kriechender, 
schweifwedelnder  Unterwurfigkeit  yor  dem  politisch,  okono- 
misch  Oder  dienstlich  Hohergestellten.  Snobs  gibt  es  in  Eng- 
land,— das  wissen  wir  von  Thackeray  —  aber  keine  Bedienten. 
Solches  Schauspiel  finden  wir  bloss  auf  dem  Festland  von 
Europa  und  namentlich  in  unserem  Deutschland.  Der  Eng- 
lander  wahrt  seine  Personlichkeit  und  achtet  die  der  Mit- 
menschen.  Und  das  ist  es,  was  mir  die  Englander  so  lieb 
gemacht  hat. 

Mit  welcher  Unbefangenheit  schaut  man  in  England  der 
sozialen  Frage  ins  Gesicht  I  Der  Unterschied,  der  in  dieser 
Beziehung  zwischen  England  und  Deutschland  obwaltet,  tritt 
augenfallig  zu  Tag,  wenn  man  die  Haltung  der  deutschen 
Regirung  bei  dem  Strike  der  Hamburger  Hafetiarbeiter  mit  der 
Haltung  der  englischen  Regirung  bei  dem  gleichzeitigen  Kon- 
flikt  englischer  Eisenbahnbediensteter  mit  "  ihrer  "  Direktion  in 
Parallele  setzt.  Kaum  war  die  Nachricht  vom  Ausbruch  des 
Strikes  der  Hafenarbeiter  Hamburgs  nach  Berlin  gelangt,  so 
bekundete  die  Reichsregirung  sofort  durch  den  Mund  ihres 
Vertreters  im  Reichstag,  dass  sie  das  Handeln  der  Arbeiter 
missbillige,  und  warf  hiermit  das  Gewicht  ihres  Einflusses  in 
die  Wagschale  der  Unternehmer,  der  Starken. 

Nicht  so  die  englische  Reginmg,   als  zwischen  den  Eisen- 
hahnbedienstetefi  und  den  Direktoren  einer  der  grossen  eng- 
lischen Linien  ein  Streit  entstanden  war.     Die  —  wolgemerkt 
Conservative  —  Regirung  bedeutete  den  Direktoren,  die  "  ihre  " 
Bediensteten  zum  Austritt  aus  der  Eisenbahnarbeiter-Gewerk- 
^chaft  notigen  woUten,  dass  es  sich  nicht  zieme,  Mitbiirger  an 
derAusubung  eines  verfassungsmdssigen  Rechtes  zu  hindem;  und 
sie  bot  ihre  Vermittlung  an,  die  nicht  abgelehnt  werden  konnte 
und  dem  drohenden  Strike  vorbeugte.  Bei  dem  gegenwartigen 
Strike  und  Outlock  (Aussperrung)  der  Maschinenbauer  tibt  die 
englische  Regirung  abermals  das  Mittleramt ;  und  der  Premier, 
Lord  Salisbury,   betonte  in  seiner  Rede  beim  letzten   Lord- 
Mayor's-Schmaus  vor  den   Magnaten  der  City  und  den  vor- 
nehmsten  Wurdentragern  des  Landes,  dass  Englaiids  Wolfahrt 


206  COSMOPOLlS. 

und  Macht  auf  der  Arbeit  beruhe,  und  dass  England  zu  Grunde 
gehe,  wenn  Arbeit  und  Kapital  sich  nicht  miteinander  ver- 
trugen.  Der  stockkonservative  Lord  Salisbury  erkennt  also 
die  Arbeiter  als  gleichberechtigten  Staats-  und  Gesellschafts- 
Faktor  an,  wohingegen  diedeutsche  Regirung,  und  mit  ihr  die 
meisten  Regirungen  des  Festlandes,  den  Arbeiter,  der  sich 
dem  Hemi  Kapitalisten  nicht  fugt,  als  Rebellen  betrachten 
und  nur  zu  oft  auch  behandeln.  Meinte  doch  vor  etwa  einem 
Jahrzehnt  erst  ein  preussischer  und  Reichsminister  :  "  Hinter 
jedem  Strike  lauert  die  Hydra  der  Revolution."  Und  doch  ist 
das  Koalitionsrecht  ein  den  deutschen  Arbeitern  durch  Reichs- 
gesetz  verbrieftes  Recht.  Das  Vorurteil,  die  Angst  vor  einer 
geheimnisvoUen,  unheimlichen  Gefahr  sind  starker  als  das 
Gesetz.  "  Aber  in  England  —  so  wird  vielleicht  eingewendet  — 
ist  der  Sozialismus  nicht  so  gefahrlich  wie  in  Deutschland  ; 
wird  er  dort  ebenso  machtig  wie  hier,  so  wird  es  in  England 
mit  der  Ruhe  und  Duldung  bald  aufhoren."  Gemach  !  Weshalb 
ist  der  Sozialismus  in  England  nicht  so  "  gefahrlich  "  ?  Weil 
die  Gleichberechtigung  in  England  eine  Wirklichkeit  ist.  An 
anderer  Stelle  —  in  der  "  Neuen  Zeit "  zu  Stuttgart  —  habe  ich 
vor  einem  halben  jahre  ungefahr,  anlasslich  eines  aka- 
demischen  Vortrags-Cyklus  in  Holland,  mich  mit  den  Grunden 
beschaftigt,  die  in  England  und  anderen  freien  Landern  die 
sozialibtische  Entwicklung  der  Arbeiterbewegung  verlang- 
samen. 

Der  Sozialismus  ist  eine  moderne  Erscheinung.  Philanthro- 
pische  Traume  und  utopistische  Phantasien  sind  nicht  mit 
Sozialismus  zu  verwechseln.  Und  der  Communismus  der 
Urzeit,  bevor  es  Privateigentum  gab,  hat  nichtsgemein  mit  dem 
Sozialismus,  der  das  Privateigentum  an  Pixhtxismitteln  —  nicht 
das  Privateigentum  an  krht\\sprodukten  —  abschaffen  will  und 
muss.  Der  moderne  Sozialismus  hat  die  kapitalistische  Ent- 
wicklung zur  notwendigen  Voraussetzung  ;  er  ist  das  Produkt 
und  die  Konsequenz  des  Kapitalismus,  den  er,  trotz  des  Gegen- 
satzes,  organisch  fortsetzen  wird  —  ebenso  wie  der  moderne 
Kapitalismus  die  organische  Fortsetzung  friiherer  Wirtschafts- 
formen  ist.  Aber  wie  anders.  Ein  Phoenizier,  ein  Carthager, 
ein  Grieche,  ein  Romer,  der  heute  aus  dem  Hades  eine  Wande- 
rung  durch  unsere  Kulturstaaten  machte,  wiirde,  obgleich  er 


"  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES.  2\ 

selbst  schon  einer  hohen  Kultur  teilhaftig  war,  in  unserer  kapi 
talistischen  Kultur  Fremdes,  Unbegreifliches,  Ungeheuere 
anstaunen.  Und  doch  ruht  diese  Kultur  auch  auf  seinen  Schul- 
tern,  hat  auch  seine  Kultur  in  sich  aufgenommen.  Ein  mittel- 
alterlicher  Zeugweber  oder  Waffenschmied  wurde  Mund  und 
Augen  aufreissen  angesichts  des  gigantischen  Ratsels^  als  das 
ihm  der  Kapitalismus  sich  darstellte.  Ja,  wir  brauchen  gar 
nicht  so  weit  zuruckzugreifen.  Ein  Grosshandler  der  dreis- 
siger  Jahre  dieses  unseres  19.  Jahrhunderts,  hatte  er  den 
Schlussel  zum  Verstandnis  des  kapitalistischen  Gegenwarts- 
staates  ? 

Wir  Sozialisten  sind  nicht,  —  was  uns  so  hartnackig  unterge- 
schoben  wird  —  der  kindischen  Meinung,  die  Menschheit  sei 
bisher,  Jahrtausende  lang,  auf  Irrwegen  gewandelt,  und  erst 
wir  Sozialisten  zeigten  ihr  den  richligen  Weg  und  wollten  sie 
am  Leitseil  auf  ihn  fuhren.  Das  ist  ein  unbegriindeter  Vor- 
wurf.  Wir  wissen,  dass  die  Staats-  und  Gesellschaftsordnung 
nicht  der  Willkur  oder  Laune  ihren  Ursprung  verdankt.  Wir 
wissen,  dass  die  politischen  und  sozialen  Einrichtungen  den 
zeitweiligen  wirtschaftlichen  Verhaltnissen  entsprechen,  die 
ihrerseits  wieder  von  Naturbedingungen,  von  dem  Stande  der 
Technik  und  von  der  Kunst,  die  Naturkrafte  dem  Menschen 
dienstbar  zu  machen,  abhangig  sind.  Wir  wissen,  dass  Volker, 
deren  Waffen  noch  Pfeil  und  Bogen  sind,  und  die  weben  und 
spinnen,  wie  Penelope  spann  und  webte,  keine  Kulturstaaten  in 
unserem  Sinn  bilden  konnen.  Wir  wissen  aber  auch,  dass 
Einrichtungen,  die  auf  einer  bestimmten  Kulturstufe  not- 
wendig  sind,  auf  einer  hoheren  Kulturstufe  Fortschritts- 
Hemmnisse  werden,  und  durch  andere,  den  neugewordenen 
Verhaltnissen  entsprechende,  ersetzt  werden  mussen,  was, 
wenn  die  Aenderung  auf  gewaltsamen  Widerstand  stosst,  mil 
gewaltsamen  Storungen  —  Revolutionen  —  verbunden  ist. 
"  Alles  ist  im  Fluss,"  und  fiir  jede  Staats-  und  Gesellschafts- 
form  kommt  die  Zeit,  wo  sie  einer  anderen  zu  weichen  hat. 

Die  modern-biirgerliche,  kapitalistische  Gesellschaft  hat  vor 
'en  friiheren  Kulturstufen   grosse,   staunenswert  grosse  Vor- 

igc.  Wir  Sozialisten  sind  die  Letzten,  dies  zu  leugnen.  Allciii 

»se   Vorziige   sind   auch    mit    schweren    Uebelstanden   und 
chteilen  verkniipft,  die,  falls  nicht  Abhilfe  wird,  die  Kultur 


io8  COSMOPOLis. 

selber  bedrohen  und  die  Mehrzahl  der  Menschen  zum  Elend 
verdammen.  Aus  diesen  Zustanden  und  aus  dieser  Erkenntnis 
ist  der  Sozialismus  hervorgegangen,  dessen  Auftreten  in  alien 
Kulturlandern  krankhafte  Fieber-Erscheinungen  im  sozialen 
Korper  hervorgerufen  hat,  —  in  alien  Kulturlandern,  mit  der 
einzigen  Ausnahme  von  England. 

Warum  die  Ausnahme  ?  Weil  England  das  einzige  Land 
ist,  das  Staatsmdnner  hat  —  Manner  in  der  Regirung  und  im 
Parteileben,  die  den  Staat  nicht  als  die  Domane  einer  Clique, 
Kaste  Oder  Klasse  ansehen,  sondern  als  einen  die  gesamte 
Bevolkerung  umfassenden  OrganismAs,  der  die  verschiedenen 
Volks-  und  Partei-Elemente  in  sich  zu  assimiliren,  aus  Allen 
seine  Kraft  zu  ziehen  und  die  Kraft  Aller  in  sich  zu  vereinigen 
hat.  Ein  Staat,  der  —  wie  die  sogenannten  Staatsmanner  des 
Deutschen  Reiches  nach  Bismarckschem  Polizeistuben-Ideal 
es  wollen  —  sich  nur  auf  die  Volks-EIemente  stiitzt,  welche 
den  leitenden  Personen  genehm  sind,  und  der  alle  anderen 
zuriickstosst,  kann  weder  Gesundheit,  noch  innerlich  gefestigte 
Macht  haben,  und  verfiige  er  iiber  Millionen  von  Soldaten  und 
Hunderte  von  Kriegsschiflen. 

Doch  wie  immer  die  Zukunft  sich  gestalten  moge  —  auf 
Zukunftsmalerei  und  Propheterei  lasse  ich  mich  nicht  ein — , 
England  ist  in  diesem  Augenblick,  und  ist  schon  seit  Jahr- 
zehnten,  das  einzige  Kulturland,  das  von  der  Krankheit  der 
Sozialistenfurcht  verschont  geblieben  ist  und  das  sich  auch 
von  der  KindereidesZukunftsstaats-Fragespielsfreigehalten  hat. 

Und  dieser  letztere  Punkt,  verbunden  mit  einigen  anderen, 
z.  B.  dem  Umstand,  dass  das  Blatt,  dessen  Redaktion  sich  an 
mich  gewandt  hat,  Cosmopolis  heisst,  und  dass  zwar  nicht 
der  Adel  (wie  Figura  zeigt)  aber  der  Name  verpflichtet  —  so 
dass  man  statt  des  von  unseren  Junkern  ad  absurdum  ge- 
fuhrten  :  Noblesse  oblige,  sagen  soUte  :  nom  oblige* —  belehrte 
mich,  dass  meine  Zweifel  und  Bedenken  des  Grundes  ent- 
behrten.  Wer  in  Cosmopolis  wohnt  und  in  dem  Bewohner 
und   Burger    jedes   anderen   Vaterlandes  seinen    Mit  -  Welt- 

•  Wie  schwer  diese  Verpflichtung  wiegen  kann,  das  hat  der  ungltickliche 
Goethe  junior  erfahren,  der  daran  gestorben  ist,  dass  er  den  Namen  des  Faust- 
Dichters  trug.  Auch  die  arinen  Griechen  haben  es  in  neuester  Zeit  erfahren,  und 
sic  konnen  doch  wahrhaftig  nichtb  daflir,  dass  bic  keinc  Miltiadessc  und  Leoni- 
dassc  sind. 


"  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHBS. "  209 

urger  sieht,  kann  auch  Niemand  verspotten  oder  geriiig 
:hten,  weil  er  einer  andern  Ueberzeugung  und  Weltan- 
:hauung  huldigt.     Und  so  fasse  ich  denn  die  Frage  als  die 

iistgemeinte  von  Menschen  auf  —  ich  sage  mit  Bedacht 
icht :  von  Mannern,  weil  ich  Frauen  nicht  ausschliessen 
ill  — ,  welche  das  Urteil  eines  im  Parteikampf  stehenden 
[annesy  gewissermaassen  eines  Experten,  horen  wollen  iiber 
ie  Art  und  Weise,  wie  seiner  Ansicht  nach  die  soziale  Krise 
irlaufen  und  welche  "  Losung  "  —  um  mich  des  Schablonen- 
isdruckes  zu  bedienen  —  die  soziale  Frage  wol  haben  wird. 
nd  das  ist  etwas  anderes  als  die  Narrenfrage  nach  dem  Zu- 
jnftsstaaty  die  schon  so  viele  Menschen  zu  Narren  gemacht 
at.  Hat  sie  nicht  meinen  sonst  hochgeschatzten  Kollegen  im 
eichstagy  Herrn  Eugen  Richter,  eine  Wichsburste  fur  eine 
[erkuleskeule  ansehen  lassen,  mit  welcher  der  Sozialismus  zu 
•rei  zerschmettert  wiirde  ?  Schade  nur,  dass  der  Helm  des 
^ambrinus  fehlte.  O  diese  Wichsburste  I  Sie  ist  ein  uraltes, 
irwurdiges  Mobel,  mit  dem  ich  bereits  vor  genau  50  Jahren, 
J47,  bekannt  wurde,  als  ich  in  die  Schweiz  geriet,  noch  in 
as  Nachspiel  der  homerischen  Kampfe  der  Jungdeutschen 
ad  Communisten,  Die  Jungdeutschen — viele  von  ihnen  sehr 
irnunftige  Leute  und  allesamt  viel  jiinger  als  unsere  neu- 
lodischen  "  Jiingsten"  —  hatten,  wenn  all  ihre  theoretischen 
rgumente  abgetan  waren,  einen  "  letzten  Grund/'  mit  dem  sie 
is  Communisten  auf  den  Leib  riickten  : 

"  Wer  wird  im  communistischen  Staat  —  Verzeihung :  in  der 
►mmunistischen  Gesellschaft  der  Gleichen — die  Stiefel  wichsen 
id  die  —  Cloaken  reinigen  ?  " 

Mit  diesen  zwei  wuchtigen  Zukunfts-Ratselfrageii  wurde 
ti  im  Ziiricher  Arbeiterbildungsverein  —  communistischer 
±rein  durfte  er  sich  nicht  mehr  nennen,  seit  der  brave  Weii- 
tg  so  schmahlich  ausgewiesen  und  von  der  "  freien " 
:liweizer  Regirung  an  die  preussische  Polizei  ausgeliefert 
ar  —  gleich  am  ersten  Debattirabend  iiberfallen,  aber  auch 
>ielend  leicht  fertig. 

''Die  Stiefel  —  meinte  ich  —  wichst  Jeder  sich  selbst,  wenn 
r  nicht  zu  schwach  oder  krank  ist,  und  dann  wird  es  gern  ein 
Vnderer  fiir  ihn  tun. — Und  was  die  Cloaken  betriflFt,  so  ist  diese 
?rage  schon  vor  vier  oder  fiinftausend  Jahren  und  mehr  ge* 

VOL.  IX. — NO.  XXV.  14 


210  COSMOPOLIS. 

lost  worden  von  einem  gewissen  Herkiiles,  als  ihm  die  Arbeit 
befohlen  ward,  die  vermisteten  Stalle  des  Konigs  Augias  auszu- 
fegen  —  was  auf  das  Gleiche  hinauslief  wie  eine  Cloaken- 
reinigiing.  Mit  der  Keule  —  der  wirklichen  Herkuleskeule  — 
war  da  nichts  auszurichten,  das  Him  musste  angestrengt 
werden,  und  Herkules  dachte  nach.  Sein  Auge,  das  er  hubsch 
offen  hielt,  fiel  auf  einen  lustig  und  lebendig  dahin  stromenden 
Fluss,  der  Erde  und  Steine  mit  sich  fort  riss  und  doch  sauber 
war.  Gefunden  I  Der  Fluss  wurde  nach  den  Stallen  geleitet, 
und  als  die  Wasserleitung  fertig  war,  reinigte  Herkules,  ohne 
sich  einen  Finger  zu  beschmutzen,  die  vermisteten  Stalle  des 
Konigs  Augias.     Konnen  wir  es  nicht  ebenso  machen  ?  " 

Das  war  vor  nunmehr  einem  halben  Sakulum.  Und  der 
Beitrag  des  griechischen  Halbgottes  zur  Losung  der  sozialen 
Frage  gar  vor  Tausenden  von  jahren. 

Was  die  Keule  nicht  tun  konnte,  das  tat  die  verniinftig  gc- 
leitete  Naturkraft.  AUein  die  Lehren  der  Geschichte  (und  auch 
der  Mythologie)  sind  leider  fiir  die  Meisten  nur  dazu  da,  um 
nicht  verstanden  zu  werden,  und  noch  heute  glauben  Viele,  die 
soziale  Frage  konne  mit  der  Keule  aus  der  Welt  geschafft 
werden  —  mit  der  eisernen  Keule  der  Blut-  und  Eisenpolitiker 
Oder  der  Papierkeule  der  Zukunftsstaats-Pachter.  Freilich, 
die  Einen  wie  die  Anderen  sind  keine  Halbgotter  und  keine 
Herkulesse. 

Die  Stiefelwichsfrage  hat  mir  beilaufig  in  meinem  Leben  nie 
Kopfschmerzen  verursacht.  Ich  habe  mir  manch  Jahrchen 
lang  die  Stiefel  und  Schuhe  selber  gewichst,  und  darunter 
waren  die  Jahre  der  Fluchtlingsschaft,  in  denen  ich  das  meiste 
Niitzliche,  das  ich  weiss,  gelernt  habe.  Die  Arbeit  kann  also 
dem  Geiste  nicht  so  schadlich  sein  —  und  der  Menschenwurde 
auch  nicht.  Die  Amerikaner  halten  sicherlich  auf  ihre  Men- 
schenwiirde,  und,  wenn  sie  verreisen,  nehmen  sie  sich  gewolin- 
lich  Wichszeug  mit  in  die  kleine  Reisetasche.  Lincoln  und 
Cleveland  reisten  nie  ohne  die  Richtersche  Wichsbiifste,  Von 
den  Reisegewohnheiten  McKinley's  bin  ich  nicht  unterrichtet. 
Uebrigens  ist  inzwischen  eine  Stiefelwichs-Maschine  erfunden 
und  patentirt  worden. 

Bei   dieser   Gelegenheit   eine  Bemerkung  :  iwir  Sozialisten 
machen  keinen  qualitativen  Unterschied  zwischen  Kopf-  und 


"  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES.  2 1 1 

Handarbeit.  Es  gibt  keine  Handarbeit  ohne  Kopfarbeit.  Und 
wir  sind  mit  den  beruhmtesten  Hygienikern  und  Padagogen 
der  Meinung,  dass  einc  Abwechslung  von  sogenannter  Hand- 
und  Kopfarbeit  fur  jeden  Menschen  zutraglich  ist,  und  dass 
Gelehrte,  Kunstler  u.  s.  w.  in  ihrer  Gesundheit  und  obendrein 
in  ihrer  Wissenschaft  und  Kunst  wesentlich  gefordert 
wiirden,  wenn  sie  regelmassig  auch  muskelstarkende  korper- 
liche  Arbeit  verrichtetcn.  Im  "  Zukunftsstaat  "  wird  sich  das 
wol  allgemein  einbiirgern.  Heute  tun's  bloss  die  Wenigen,  die 
frei  sind  von  Vorurteilen  und  vom  Arbeitszwang. 

**  Zukunftsstaat  ! "  Was  versteht  man  denn  eigenllich  unter 
dem  seltsamen  Wort  ?  ZnkunftssididX  !  Wo  fangt  die  Zukunft 
an,  wo  hort  dieOegenwart  auf  ?  Ist  die  Gegenwart  von  morgen 
nicht  heute  Zukunft  ?  wie  die  Gegenwart  von  gestern  heute 
Vergangenheit  ?  Der  Dichter  kann  "  zum  Augenblicke  sagen  : 
Verweile  doch,  du  bist  so  schon  ! "  Das  ist  Dichters  Recht. 
Aber  der  Augenblick  kehrt  sich  nicht  dran,  —  er  verweilt  nichiy 
er  stiirzt  sich  unaufhaltsam  in  den  Strom  der  Vergangenheit. 
Der  Politiker,  der  von  der  Gegenwart  verlangt,  dass  sie  verweile, 
erbringt  den  Nachweis  der  Nichtbefahigung. 

War  der  Staat,  war  die  Gesellschaft  von  heute  nicht  gestern 
ein  Zukunftsstaat,  eine  Zukunftsgesellschaft  ?  Denen,  die  vom 
Zukunftsstaat  als  von  einem  Tollhausler-Traum  oder  einem 
Verbrecher-Complott  reden,  ist  die  Geschichte  —  die  Mensch- 
heits-Geschichte  wie  die  Natur-Geschichte  —  ein  mit  sieben 
Siegeln  verschlossenes  Buch.  Sie  haben  die  einfache  Wahrheit 
nicht  bemeistert,  dass  steinernes  Sein  nie  war,  nicht  ist,  nicht 
sein  kann,  dass  Alles  ein  ewig  wachsendes,  ewig  sich  fortent- 
wickelndes  Werden  ist,  nimmer  rastende  Bewegung,  Bewe- 
gungslos,  werdelos  ist  nur  der  Tod  —  und  dem  wissenden  ist 
auch  der  Tod  Werden  und  Leben. 

Wir  SoziaHsten  soUen  aufs  Haar  wissen,  wie  der  sozialistische 
Zukunftsstaat  aussieht  —  oder  aussehen  wird  !  Haben  etwa 
die  vermeintlichen  Begriinder  der  modernen  biirgerlichen  Ge- 
sellschaft, die  den  Zukunftsstaats-Fraglern  als  muster-  und 
endgiitige  Gesellschaftsordnung  vorschwebt,  auch  nur  die  ent- 
fernteste  Ahnung  von  dem  gehabt,  was  heute  ist  ?  Ich  sage  : 
die  vermeintlichen.  In  Wirklichkeit  ist  die  jetzt  herrschende 
Gesellschaftsordnung  organisch  aus  den  fruhercn  Gesellschafts- 


212  COSMOPOLIS. 

formen  her^usgewaclisen,  —  nicht  von  einigen  Menschen 
gemacht  oder  gebaut  worden,  wie  ein  Baumeister  ein  Haus 
baut. 

Die  Verkehrtheit  dieser  Auffassung  offenbart  sich  in  dem 
stereotypen  Wort :  "  Die  Sozialdemokratie  will  tabula  rasa 
machen  —  das  Bestehende  '  umstiirzen '  und  auf  den  Trum- 
mern  einen  Neubau  nach  neuem  Plan  errichten."  Als  ob  die 
Gesellschaft  ein  Kasten  Bauklotzer  ware.  Als  ob  seiches 
jemals  geschehen  ware,  jemals  geschehen  konnte.  Der  Ge- 
danke  kann  nur  in  dem  Kopf  eines  Menschen  entspringen, 
der  in  der  Geschichte  die  mechanische  Arbeit  fabelhafter 
Handwerksmeister,  der  "grossen  Manner"  unserer  Klein- 
und  Grosskinderfibeln  erblickt,  in  denen  betriigende  und  be- 
trogene  Betriiger  dem  "  Volk  "  die  "  Geschichte  "  erzahlen. 

Die  historische  Kritik  hat  mit  diesen  fabelhaften  Baumeistern 
langst  aufgeraumt  und  sie  dahin  geschickt,  wo  sie  hingehoren  : 
ins  Reich  der  Fabel.  Sie  hat  uns  gezeigt,  dass  alle  grossen 
Taten,  Umgestaltungen,  Erfindungen  das  Werk  nicht  einzelner 
Individuen,  sondern  das  Werk  von  Myriaden  zusammen- 
wirkender  Menschenkrafte  sind,  nicht  willkiirliches  Werk, 
sondern  durch  die  Verhaltnisse  geboten  ;  kurz,  dass  die  Welt- 
geschichte  Collectivarbeit  ist  —  die  Gesamtarbeit  der  Mensch- 
heit  —  und  dass  diese  Arbeit  nicht  willkiirlich,  nach  Laune 
vor  sich  geht,  sondern  mit  Notwendigkeit,  nach  bestimmten 
Gesetzen.  Womit  ich  nicht  gesagt  haben  will,  dass  ein  Mensch 
dasselbe  Maass  von  Kraften  besitze,  wie  der  andere. 

Die  Ohnmacht  des  Individuums  gegeniiber  diesen  Gesetzen 
hat  den  lebenden  Geschlechtern  der  Mann  schlagend  ad  oculos 
demonstrirt,  der  seit  dem  Sturze  des  Napoleon  von  alien 
Gewalthabern  die  meisten  Machtmittel  in  seiner  Hand  vereinigt 
hatte  :  Fiirst  Bismarck.  Ein  Feind  des  Burgertums,  ein 
Hasser  der  Grossstadte,  die  er  1848  als  Brutstatten  der  Revo- 
lution vom  Erdboden  wegtilgen  woUte,  musste  er,  zur  Regirung 
gelangt,  —  er,  der  grimmige  Feind  der  Revolution,  —  in 
Deutschland  eine  wirtschaftliche  Revolution  durchfuhren 
helfen,  die  Deutschland  aus  einem  Ackerbaustaat  in  einen 
Industriestaat  verwandelt,  den  kapitalistischen  Grossbetrieb  aa 
Stelle  des  biirgerlich-bauerlichen  Kleinbetriebs  gesetzt,  Mil- 
lionen  der  Landbevolkerung  in  die  Stadte  getrieben  und   "die 


"ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICH  KS."  2 1 3 

Brutstatten  der  Revolution "  zu  schwindelnder  Grosse  aufge- 
schwemmt  hat ;  eine  Revolution,  die  an  Ausdehnung  und 
zerstorender  Wirkung  ihresgleichen  nicht  gehabt  hat,  nicht 
einmai  in  der  gewaltigen  Industrie-Revolution,  von  der  Eng- 
land gegen  Ende  des  vorigen  Jahrhunderts  heimgesucht  ward  ; 
eine  Revolution,  welche  die  Grundlagen  der  bisherigen  Gesell- 
schaftsordnungteilsverschoben,  teils  niedergeworfen,  und  jene 
allgemeine  Unbehaglichkeit  und  Zerfahrenheit  erzeugt  hat, 
die  der  politischen  uhd  okonomischen  Lage  Deutschlands  die 
Signatur  gibt  —  und  der  Ndhrboden  der  deutschen  Sozialdemo- 
kratie  ist. 

Wer  Augen  hat  zu  sehen,  der  sah,  der  sieht  die  Saat  wach- 
sen,  wie  der  Gelehrte  eine  Bacterien-Kultur.  Nur  dass  es  fur 
diese  politisch-sozialen  Bacterien  noch  keine  Gelehrten  gibt  — 
wenigstens  nicht  in  den  Reihen  unserer  Zunftpolitiker,  fiir 
welche  Politik  und  Polizei  untrennbare  Dinge  sind,  ja  ein 
und  dasselbe. 

Curiositats-    und  Vollstandigkeitshalber    sei  hier  noch  der 

tiefsinnigen  Gemutsmenschen  erwahnt,  die  uns  der  "  Unmo- 

ralitat"  zeihen,  weil  wir  das  Volk  fur  ein  Ideal  begeistern,  von 

dem  \Yir  nicht  bis  aufs  Tiipfelchen  uberm  /'  angeben  konnen, 

wie  es  sich  verwirklichen  wird.      Es  sei  "  gevvissenlos,"  den 

Menschen  ihre  Wohnung  zu  verleiden,  wenn  man  nicht  eine 

neue  Wohnung  entweder  schon  fertig  gebaut  odor  doch  im 

Plan  fertig  habe.     Nun,  das  bringt  mich  zuruck  zu  den  Grun- 

dern  des  Gegenwartsstaates  —  nach   der  gewohnlichen   An- 

nahme — ,  unter  ihnen  vornan  stehen  die  "Titanen  "  der  fran- 

zosischen  Revolution. 

Haben  denn  diese  Griinder  des  Gegenwartsstaates,  so  frage 
ich  meinerseits,  die  Gegenwart  —  unscre  Gegenwart,  ihre  Zu- 
kunft  —  auch  nur  in  den  traumhaftesten  Umrissen  getraumt  ? 
Hatten  die  Manner,  die  im  Mai  1789  als  Vertreter  des  dritten 
^tandes  ins  Versailler  Konigsschloss  zogen  —  hatten  die 
Bastillesturmer  und  spater  dieTuilerienstiirmer  :  die  MiraheaUy 
ik  DesmoulinSf  die  Robespierre,  die  DantoUy  die  Marat  ein  Bild 
lessen,  was  aus  der  biirgerlichen  Gesellschaft  werden  wiirde, 
der  sie  die  Bahn  brachen  ?  Hatten  sie  eine  Ahnung  der  so- 
2ialen  und  dkonomischen  Revolution  itinerhalb  des  zur  Herr- 
schaft  gelangten  dritten    Standes  ?     Hatten   sie  eine  Ahnung 


214  COSMOPOLIS. 

des  Kapitalismus  mit  seinen  Klassen-Kampfen  ?  Camille  Des- 
moulins,  der  leichtsinnige,  gutherzige  Spotter  und  "  Prokurator 
der  Laterne/'  prophezeite  wol,  dass  an  Stelle  der  alten  gesturz- 
ten  Feudalitat  eine  neue  Feudalitiit,  die  der  Finanzaristokratie 
sich  erheben  wurde.  AUein  er  hatte  gut  prophezeien,  sinte- 
malen  eine  Finanzaristokratie  bereits  vorhanden  war  und  eine 
Finanzaristokratie  uberhaupt  keine  Besonderheit  des  Kapi- 
talismus ist. 

Und  wenn  jemand  dem  guten  Camille,  ehe  er  seinen  Kopf 
fiir  die  "  Freiheit  und  Gleichheit "  auf  die  Guillotine  trug, 
gesagt  hatte,  dass  neunundfiinfzig  Jahre  —  nicht  zwei  Men- 
schenalter  —  nach  dem  Bastillensturm  die  Zwillingskinder  des 
dritten  Standes  :  die  Bourgeoisie  und  das  Proletariat,  Burger 
und  Arbeiter,  im  Schatten  der  Julisaule,  welche  die  Statte  der 
geschleiften  Bastille  bezeichnet,  einander  in  einer  sechstagigen 
Massenschlacht  zerfleischen  wiirden,  die  mehr  Menschenleben 
kostete,  als  alle  Massenschlachten — die  grntuics  jonm^es — der 
franzosischen  Revolution  zusammen,  Camille  hatte  den  Spre- 
cher  gross  angeschaut  und  fiir  betrunken  oder  irrsinnig 
gehalten.  Und  doch  ist  es  so  gekommen.  Der  dritte  Stand, 
der  ausser  dem  Adel  und  der  Geistlichkeit  das  ganze  franzo- 
sische  Volk  in  sich  enthielt,  kannte  noch  keine  BiirgerJt/^ssr. 
Der  moderne  Grossbetrieb,  der  in  England  kurz  vorher  sein 
Regiment  angetreten  hatte,  war  auf  dem  Festlande  noch  in 
den  Kinderschuhen  ;  von  einer  Scheidung  und  einem  Gegen- 
satz  der  Klassen,  da  es  noch  keine  abgegrenzten  Klassen  gab,  \\zv 
keine  Rede.  Erst  unter  Napoleon  kam  der  Industrialismus  im 
Sinne  des  kapitalistischen  Grossbetriebs  auf,  und  aus  ein  und 
demselben  Doppel-Embryo  des  dritten  Standes  wuchsen  die 
zwei  Briider  :  Bourgeoisie  und  Proletariat  heran.  Bis  zum 
Jahre  1848  waren  sie  noch  nicht  in  ofifenem  und  erklartem 
Kampf  gewesen, — die  Junischlacht  des  "tollen  Jahres"  zer- 
schnitt  das  Tischtuch  zwischen  den  zwei  feindlichen  Briidern, 
deren  Gegensatzlichkeit  und  Klassenkrieg  die  zweite  Halfte  des 
neunzehnten  Jahrhunderts  ausfiillt  und  nicht  allzuweit  in  das 
zwanzigste  Jahrhundert  hineinreichen  moge. 

Das  Ende  dieses  Kampfes  ist  der  Sozialismus,  Wie  werden 
die  Peripetien  des  Kampfes  sich  abspielen  ?  Wer  weiss  es  ? 
Doch    7cns   wir   wissen  :    die  aufsteigende  Spirallinie,   welche 


"  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES."  215 

it  Entwicklungsgang  der  Menschheit  nach  Humboldt  be- 
hreibt,  muss  durch  den  Sozialismus  gehen.  Und  gibts  etwas 
nter  dem  Sozialismus  ?  Ueber  ihn  hinaus  ?  "  Das  neun- 
hnte  Jahrhundert  gehort  der  Sozialen  Frage,"  schrieb  vor 
hren  schon  der  von  Haus  aus  konservative,  durch  die  staats- 
aimische  Praxis  zu  freieren  Anschauungen  bekehrte  Glad- 
Dne.  Und  das  zwanzigste  Jahrhundert  gehort  der  Losung, 
irf  ich  getrost  hinzufugen. 

Ob  die  Entwickhmg  zum  Sozialismus  sich  friedlich  und 
hig  oder  gewaltsam,  ob  auf  dem  Wege  der  Reform  oder  der 
^volution  vollziehen  wird,  das  ist  eine  Frage  des  grosseren 
ler  geringeren  —  Intellects  der   herrschenden    Klassen   und 

was  hiermit  verbunden — des  grosseren  oder  geringeren 
'ertes  der  Staatseinrichtungen.  In  einem  Freistaat  wie  der 
:hweiz,  wo  die  Volkssouveranitat  unbeschrankt  ist,  wo  jeder 
urger  das  Stimmrecht  hat,  um  seinen  Willen  zum  Ausdruck, 
nd  die  Wehrmannswaffe,  um  ihn  zur  Geltung  zu  bringen,  wo 
e  Regirung  alle  Macht  vom  Volk  und  keine  Macht  ge^en  das 
oik  hat,  sind  blutige  Konflikte  von  irgend  einer  Erheblichkeit 
lenschlicher  Vorausberechnung  nach  ausgeschlossen.  Sitzen 
Dch  bereits  Sozialisten  in  schweizerischen  Regirungen  ! 

In  Landern,  deren  Regirungen  sich  als  die  BevoUmachtigten 
nd  Agenten  einzelner  Stande  und  Klassen  betrachten  und  es 
ir  Aufgabe  des  Staats  halten,  alien  Strebungen  I'on  unfen  niit 
fester  Hand  "  entgegenzutreten,  jede  Regungund  Organisation 
er  Arbeiter  zu  unterdriicken,  werden  schwere  Konflikte 
icht  ausbleiben.  Indes,  wenn  wir  bedenken,  welche  Revolu- 
onen  und  Kampfe  es  gekostet  hat,  den  Gegenwartsstaat  und 
as  heutige  Europa  zu  griinden,  dann  konnen  wir  uns  der 
cheren  Erwartunghingeben,  dass  die  Griindung  des  Zukunfts- 
aats  nicht  so  viel,  nicht  annahernd  so  viel  Thranen  und  Blut 
osten  wird. 

Und  da  ware  ich  denn  in  dem  Kern  meines  Themas,  so  weit 
leine  bisherigen  Ausfiihrungen  Thema  und  Kern  haben  be- 
ehen  lassen.  Mit  einer  Beschreibung  des  Zukunftsstaates 
ann  ich  nicht  aufwarten.  Ebenso  leicht  auf  das  wogende, 
bbende  Meer  einen  Palast  bauen,  als  auf  der  Grundlage  der 
eutigen  Gesellschaft  den  Plan  der  kiinftigen  Gesellschafts- 
>rdnung  entwerfen  woUen.     Der  kiinftigen  ?    Nein,  einer  kiinf 


2l6  COSMOPOLIS 

tigen  ;  ist  doch  hinter  jeder  Zukunft  eine  kunftigere  Zukunft. 
Jeder  Tag  andert  Grundlage  und  Oberflache  der  Gesellschaft. 

Der  Webstuhl  der  Zeit  steht  keinen  Moment  still  ;  rastlos 
webt  an  ihm  die  Menschheit  seit  Jahrtausenden  den  Teppich 
ihrer  Geschichte,  dessen  Anfang  wir  nicht  sehen  und  der  kein 
Ende  hat,  —  den  Teppich,  in  den,  mit  dem  Gegenwartsstaat 
zusammenfliessend,  allmahlich  derZukunftsstaat  hineingewebt 
wird. 

Wo  ist  die  Grenze  der  ineinander  laufenden   Bilder  ?     Der 
Kohlerglaube,  dass  der  Sozialismus  eine  scharfabgeschnittene, 
mit  einem  Schlag  eine  ganz  andere  Staats-  und  Wirtschafts- 
ordnung  einfiihren  werde,  findet  sich   hier  und  da  selbst   in 
sozialistischen   Kreisen.     Wie  oft  horte  ich   die  sehnsuchtige 
Frage  :  "  Werden  wir  es  noch  erleben  ?  "      "  Es,"  das  heisst 
die  Erfiillung  unseres  Ideals.  Werden  wir  ?  Ja  und  nein.  Neiiij 
denn  kein   Ideal  wird  erfiillt.    Haben.wir  erreicht,  was  uns 
heute  als  Hochstes  erscheint,  so   ist    Hoheres  und  Weiteres 
schon  vor  uns.    Wenn  es  wahr  ist,  dass  der  Mensch  mit  seinen 
Zielen  wachst,  so  ist  es  nicht  weniger  wahr,  dass  die  Ziele  mit 
dem  Menschen  wachsen.     Der  "  Zukunfststaat  "  hat  keinen  An— 
fang  und  kein  Ende  ;  stets,  bis  unser  Planet  erstarrt  ist,  wircl 
vor    der   vorandrangenden    Menschheit   ein   "  Zukunftsstaat " 
liegen.     Und  docA  werden  wir  ihn  erleben.     Nicht  "werden," 
wir  erleben  ihn,  —  wir  erleben  sein  Werden — ,  er  ivird  um  uns- 
Wer  hat  beim    Wandern  in    Herbsttagen    nicht   eine   weiss^* 
Nebelwand  vor  sich  gesehn  ?     Sie  scheint  an  einem  bestimm— 
ten  Funkt  aufzusteigen.     Wir  eilen  hin,  aber  die  Wand  enfernt 
sich  so  schnell  als  wir  uns  nahern  ;  und  schraien  wir  um  uns^ 
so  sehen  wir,  dass  hinter  uns,  neben  uns  die  gleiche  Wand  ist 
wie  vor    uns.     Wir    sind  mitten    ini  Nebel,  nur   dass   wir   ir^ 
nachster  Nahe  ihn  nicht  wahrnehmen.     So  sind  wir  mitten  itr 
der  sozialen  Revolution, 

Zur  Vermeidung  von  Missverstandnis,  sei  hier  bemerkt,  dass 
das  Wort  Revolution  fiir  uns  Sozialdemokraten  nicht  die  Be- 
deutung  des  gewaltsamen  Umsturzes  hat.  Das  Revolutionare 
ist  im  Ziele,  nicht  in  den  Mitteln.  Der  gewaltsame  Umsturz 
der  deutschen  Bundesverfassung  durch  Preussen  im  Jahre 
1866  war  keine  Revolution  (ausser  im  engsten  Sinne  des 
Worts),  und   die  Vernichtung  der  kleinbiirgerlichen  Produk- 


"  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICH  ES.  2 1 7 

tion  durch  die  kapitalistische  Grossproduktion  vielleicht  die 
grosste  Revolution  der  Weltgeschichte,  obgleich  sie  ohne  Ver- 
fassungsbruch  und  blutige  Kampfe  erfolgt  ist. 

Wir  sind  jetzt  mitten  in  der  sozialen  Revolution,  die  diese 
kapitalistische  Welt,  selber  das  Kind  der  Revolution,  zerstort 
und  das  Reich  des  Sozialismus  aufrichten  wird ;  Revolution 
schliesst  sich  an  Revolution,  und  die  Verdrangung  des  biirger- 
lichen  Kleinbetriebs  durch  den  kapitalistischen  Grossbetrieb  ist 
nur  eine  Etappe  auf  dem  geraden  Wege  zur  Sozialisirung  der 
Gesellschaft. 

Wic  die  Gesellschaft  sich  kiinftig — ich  meine,  nachdem  man 

sich  iiber  die  Gemeinschadlichkeit   der  kapitalistischen  Aus- 

beutungs  -Wirtschaft  geeinigt  und  zur  Anbahnung  und  Durch- 

fuhrung    einer    gemeinniitzlichen    Staats-   und   Gesellschafts- 

ordnung  entschlossen   hat  — ,  wie   die  Gesellschaft  sich  dann 

gestalten  wird,  dariiber  habe  ich  meine  eigenen  Gedanken,  wie 

Jeder  sie  uber  die  Zukunft  hat.    Diese  Gedanken  haben  jedoch, 

da  es  sich  nur  um  Vermutungen  und  Vorstellungen  handelt, 

fiir  Niemanden  Wert,  es  sei  denn  als  Schopfungen  der  Ein- 

bildungskraft.      Bestenfalls   wiirde   ich  einen   Zukunftsroma;/ 

liefern,  wie  die  Gegenwart,  an  sich  selber  verzweifelnd,  aus  sich 

selber  herausfliichtend,  deren  alljahrlich  ein  halbes  Dutzend  zu 

Tag  fordert.     Schlechte  und  gute  —  m  einem  Punkt  aber  alle 

einander   gleich  :  keiner   spiegelt,  was  sein   wird,      Und  lasst 

sich  auch  abspiegeln  was  nicht  ist  ?     Das  ware  ja  Spiritisten- 

Photographie  aus  der  vierten  Dimension.     Wie  ich  in  meiner 

Vorrede  zu  dem  dichterisch  verdienstvollen  und  auch  in  ein- 

^.elnen  Teilen  von  tiefem  Verstandnis  des  Sozialismus  zeugen- 

den  Roman  des  zu  friih  verstorbenen  englischen  Dichters  und 

Kiinstlers   Williani  Morris  :    "  News  from  Nowhere  "  (Kunde 

von  Nirgendwo)*  schrieb  : 

Wir  .'lUc  haben  iinsern  ZukunftssUiat,  odcr  rich  tiger,  iinsere  Zukunfts- 
siaaten.  Denn  mit  eincm  ist  sicherlich  Keiner  ziifrieden.  Und  die  Meisten 
haben  ein  Schock  und  mehr.  Wir,  liir  unser  Teil,  haben  ein  Arsenal  vol! 
aiif  Lager  —  lauter  ganz  hiibsch  manierliche,  fein  sauberiiche  Zukunfts- 
staaten.  Wir  wissen  ganz  genau,  dass  es  so  kommen  kountc,  jedoch  noch 
genauer  wissen  wir,  dass  es  nicht  so  kommen  ivini.  Die  Laufbahn  der 
cinfachsten  Menschcn  ist  nicht  vorauszubcstimmen,  —  wic  sollte  sich  die 
Menschheit  vorausbestimmen  lassen  ! 

•  In  Nr.  I  der  "  Xeiicn   Zeit,"  JahrganLr   189293.     Der    Roman  \<  fiir  die^^e 
Revue  von  meiner  Frau  ins  Deutsche  iibertraj^en  worden. 


2l8  COSMOPOLIS. 

Und  so  will  ich  mich  auch  nicht  in  Versuchung  begeben 
und  fern  von  Wolkenkukuksheim,  auf  der  Erde  bleiben. 

Die  Sozialdemokratie  ist,  wie  ihr  Name  es  ausdruckt, 
eine  demokratische  Partei.  Sie  kennt  gleich  alien  aufgeklarten 
Politikern  keine  andere  Souveranitat  als  die  Volkssouveranitat, 
die  nur  ein  anderer  Name  ist  fiir  das  absolute  Selbstbestim- 
mungsrecht  des  Volks.  Demgemass  fordern  wir  das  allgemeine 
(gleiche,  direkte  und  geheime)  Wahl-  und  Stimmrecht  fur  alle 
offentlichen  Aemter,  Korperschaften  und  Entschliessungen. 
Ich  sage  :  Wahl-  und  Stimmrecht^  weil  das  Votum  des  Volks 
nicht  bloss  zur  Erwahlung  von  Beamten  und  Vertretern  not- 
wendig  ist,  sondern  auch  zur  Entscheidung  uber  Gesetze  und 
sonstige  oflFentliche  Maassnahmen,  zum  Beispiel  iiber  Krieg 
und  Frieden. 

In  der  Schweiz  finden  wir  das  schon  zum  grossen  Teil  ver- 
wirklicht  ;  sie  ist  iiberhaupt  in  ihrer  Art  ein  Musterstaat  und, 
wie  ich  auf  dem  diesjahrigen  Internationalen  Arbeiterschutz- 
Kongress  sie  nannte,  schon  ein  Stuck  Zukunftsstaat  im  Kleincn, 

Wer  sich  die  von  uns  erstrebte  konsequente  Verwirklichung 
des  demokratischen  Prinzips  durch-  und  ausdenkt,  begreift 
ohne  Weiteres  die  Abgeschmacktheit  des  Vorwurfs,  die  Sozial- 
demokratie wolle  die  Massen  vergewaltigen  und  plane  die 
Dictatur  des  Proletariats,  Fiirchterliches  Wort  und  lacher- 
liches  Wort  !  So  manchem  braven  Philister  hat  es  eine 
Gansehaut  iiber  den  Korper  gejagt  und  doch  braucht  man  das 
Gespenst  nur  fest  anzusehen,  und  es  lost  sich  in  Nichtsauf  — 
gleich  alien  Gespenstern. 

Was  ist  Diktatur  ?  Die  scharfste  Vcrneiuiing  der  Demokratie. 
Die  ausserste  Concentrirung  der  Staatsmacht  zum  Zweck  der 
Kriegjiihruug  gegen  e'men  inneren  oder  iiusseren  Feind.  Im 
alten  Rom,  woher  das  Wort  und  die  Sache  stammt,  hat  w^ieder- 
holt  Diktatur  bestanden  ;  und  bis  in  die  neueste  Zeit  hinein 
haben  wnr,  wenn  auch  das  schlechtklingende  Wort  meistens 
euphemistisch  umschrieben  wird,  in  verschiedenen  Staaten 
Diktatur  gehabt,  und  haben  sie  heute  —  von  der  Diktatur  im 
Kriege  und  nach  Staatsstreichen  will  ich  hier  nicht  reden  — 
ich  meine  die  Klassendiktatur,  welche  der  moderne  Kapitalis- 
niiis  in  Europa  ausiibt,  seit  er  sich  vom  Sozialismus  bedroht 
fiihlt.     Chronische    Diktatur,    Diktatur    in    Permanenz.     Oder 


"  ZUKUNFTS8TAATLICHES. '  219 

1  die  grausamen  Verfolgungen  des  Sozialismus  nach  der 
ischlacht  und  Commune  in  Frankreich  nicht  Diktatur  ? 
d  die  Verfolgungen  der  Sozialdemokratie  in  Deutschland, 
sie  sich  auf  den  Boden  der  Tatsachen  gestellt  hat  und 
itische  Partei  geworden  ist,  —  ist  die  Knebelung  der  sozia- 
ischen  Presse,  die  Fesselung  des  Coalitionsrechts  —  nicht 
:tatur  ?  War  das  Sozialistengesetz  nicht  ein  Proskriptions- 
etz  ?  Und  sind  kapitalistische  Parteien  nicht  unabljissig 
luht,  neue  und  schHmmere  Proskriptionsgesetze  zu  schmie- 
1  ?  Wenn  das  nicht  Diktatur  ist,  dann  weiss  ich  nicht,  was 
:tatur  sein  soil. 

lewiss  —  wir  haben  die  Klassendiktatur  —  die  Diktatur  ties 
bitalismus. 

is  ist  das  alte  Spiel.  Der  Kapitalismus  wirft  seine  eigencti 
fdeii  dem  Sozialismus  vor,  wie  mit  der  "Teilerei, "  der 
stoning  des  Eigentums  und  der  Familie,  der  "freien 
ibe  ",  dem  Kasernen-  und  Zuchthausstaat. 
Lus  der  Tatsache,  dass  in  Zeiten  des  Kampfes  und  der 
solution  von  Sozialisten  die  Diktatur  des  Proletariats  als 
npf-  und  Kriegsmaassregel  vorgeschlagen  ward,  den  Schluss 
len,  dass  die  Sozialdemokratie  die  Diktatur  wolle,  ist  eben- 
unehrlich  wie  unlogisch.  Ist  Krieg* — gut,  dann  ist  Kriegs- 
tand,  und  inter  arma  silent  leges  —  im  Kriegsgetiimmel 
weigt  das  Gesetz.  SoUte,  was  wir  Sozialdemokratisn  wahr- 
tig  keinen  Grund  haben  zu  wunschen—  sollte  die  sozia- 
sche  Neugeburt  der  Gesellschaft  sich  in  diesem  und  jenem 
at  unter  den  Donnern  und  Blitzen  des  Biirgerkrieges  voll- 
len,  so  wiirden  selbstverstandlich  die  Konsequenzen  des 
egszustandes  fiir  die  Sozialdemokratie  gelten.  Allein 
Sozialdemokratie  erstrebt  prinzipiell  die  Beendigung 
Kriegszustandes,  in  den  die  kapitalistische  Gesell- 
aft  durch  den  Klassenkampf  gegen  das  Proletariat  und 
I  Sozialismus  geraten  ist,  und  der  dauern  wird,  so 
ge  der  Kapitalismus  den  Staat  beherrscht.  1st  dieser 
egszustand  beendet  —  durch  Verwirklichung  des  sozialis- 
hen  Programms,  das  die  Abschaffung  der  Klassen  und 
issenherrschaft,  und  damit  des  Klassenkampfs  bezweckt  -  , 
haben  wir  den  sozialen  und  intersozialen,  den  nationalen 
1  internationalen  Frieden.     Wozu  da  Diktatur  ?     Weit  ent- 


220  COSMOPOLIS. 

fernt,  die  Diktatur  des  Proletariats  zu  wollen,  ist  der  Sozialismus 
das  Ende  jeglicher  Herrschaft  ausser  der  des  Gesetzes  und 
Volkswillens,  und  folgerichtig  auch  das  Ende  der  Diktatur  in 
jeglicher  Gestalt. 

Wir  wollen  auch  nicht  die  Diktatur  der  Mchrheit.  Viel- 
kopfige  Tyrannei  ist  nicht  besser  als  einkopfige  ;  drum  fordein 
wir  die  Vertretung  der  Minderheit  (proporz.),  die  vollste 
Wahrung  der  Rechte  des  Individuums,  Grundrechte,  die  kein 
Majoritatsbeschluss  antasten  kann.  Wie  kann  da  von  Verge- 
waltigung  die  Rede  sein  ?  Wer  soil  vergewaltigen  ?  Die 
Regirung  ?  Sie  wird  bloss  Verwaltung  sein,  und  hat  keine 
Machtmittel,  die  sie  gegen  das  Volk  verwenden  kann.  Wo 
AUe  gleiches  Recht  und  j^leichc  Macht  haben,  konmt  Jeder 
zu  seinem  Recht,  und  ist  der  Einzelne  wie  das  Ganze  Schmied 
seines  Schicksals. 

Das  Gemeinwesen  —  heisse  es  nun  Staat  oder  Gesellschaft, 
das  ist  gleichgiltig  —  der  Commonwealth,  wie  der  englische 
Name  lautet,  hat  nach  sozialistischer  Auffassung  zum  obersten 
Zweck  das  moglichste  Wolergehen  jedes  einzelnen  Gesell- 
schaftsgliedes  —  und  das  bedingt  die  Freiheit  des  Individuums. 
Nicht  den  Absolutismus  des  Individuums,  den  die  anarchistischc 
Lehre  verkundet.  Hier  zeigt  sich  der  prinzipielle  Unterschied 
und  diametrale  Gcgeusaiz  von  Anarchisnius  und  Sozialismus. 
Der  Anarchismus  stellt  das  Individuum  iiber  die  Gesellschaft 
und  macht  dadurch  jede  gesellschaftliche  Organisation  un- 
moglich.  Der  Sozialismus  will  die  Gesellschaft  organisiren, 
weil  das  Individuum  nur  in  der  Gesellschaft  und  nur  durch  die 
Gesellschaft  voll  und  frei  sich  entfalten  kann.  Der  Anarchis- 
mus stellt  Individuum  gegen  Individuum,  und  proklamirt 
den  Krieg  Alter  gegen  A  lie.  Der  Sozialismus  stellt  In- 
dividuum nebefi  Individuum,  und  proklamirt  die  Gleichbe- 
rechiigung  Aller.  Der  Anarchismus  ist  der  soziale  Krieg, 
der  Sozialismus  der  soziale  Frieden.  In  Allem  das  Gegen- 
teil  des  Sozialismus,  ist  der  Anarchismus,  trotz  seines  revo- 
lutioniiren  Geschreis,  im  Wesen  grundreaktionar.  Der  Anar- 
chist, welcher  der  Gesellschaft  eine  Dynamitbombe  ins  Gesicht 
schleudert,  steht  auf  dem  Boden  desselben  Gewaltegoismus 
wie  der  Despot,  der  kraft  seines  personlichen  Ich  -  Willens 
Tausende  in  den   Kerker  oder  auf  die  Schlachtbank  schickt, 


'*  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES.  221 

und  wie  der  Grossbourgeois,  der  nach  dem  Faustrecht  der 
"freien  Konkurrenz"  mit  seinem  ubermachtigen  Kapital 
Hunderte  von  kleinen  Existenzen  vernichtet.  Tatsachlich 
ist  der  Anarchismus  auch  nur  ein  Auswuchs  biirgerlicher 
Weltanschauung  und  ein  Reflex  des  Kapitalismus,  der  mit  ihm 
den  Sozialismus  zum  gemeinsamen  Todfeind  hat.  Wer  un- 
glaubig  den  Kopf  schuttelt,  den  bitte  ich  Schillers  **  Rduber"  zu 
lesen.  Zehn  oder  zwolf  Jahre  vor  Ausbruch  der  franzosischen 
Revokition  entstanden,  atmen  "  Die  Rauber  "  den  gliihendsten 
Hass  gegen  die  Gesellschaft,  predigen  sie  zornflammend  und 
zornentflammend  die  Rebellion  des  Individuums  gegen  die 
Staats-  und  Gesellschaftsordnung,  predigen  sie  sogar  das 
Recht  des  Verbrechens,  wie  der  blutrunstigste  der  neueren  und 
neuesten  Anarchisten  es  nicht  wilder  getan  hat,  tun  konnte. 
Als  Belohnung  fiir  dieses  Hohelied  des  Anarchismus  —  a  pro- 
pos,  das  Motto  aus  Hippokrates  ist  auch  nicht  von  schlechten 
Eltern  --  wurdei  Schiller]  bekanntlich  von  den  Vertretern  der 
franzosischen  Revolution  zum  Ehrenbiirger  der  einen  und  un- 
teilbaren  Republik  ernannt.  Und 'der  Dichter  der  "  Rauber  " 
ist  der  Lieblingsdichter  des  deutschen  Biirgertums  geworden. 

Der  Anarchismus  ist  die  Konsequenz  und  Ausartung  der 
biirgerlichen  Freiheit,  die  in  der  Gerechtigkeii  noch  nicht  ihre 
notwendige  Erganzung  fand  und  die  Gleichheit,  welche  sie 
neben  sich  schrieb,  zu  einer  Liige  machte. 

Wenn  das  allgemeine  Wahl-  und  Stimmrecht  fiir  uns  die 
Basis  des  Gemeinwesens  ist,  so  nehmen  wir  es  dabei  mit  dem 
Worte  "allgemein"  ernst.  "AUgemein"  kann  ein  Recht 
nicht  sein,  von  dem  die  Halfte  der  miindigen  Staatsange- 
horigen  ausgeschlossen  ist ;  und  wir  fordern  deshalb  das 
Wahl-  und  Stimmrecht  fur  die  Frauen  so  gut  wie  fiir  die 
Manner.  Das  ist  an  sich  etwas  so  Selbstverstandliches,  dass 
man  auf  den  ersten  Blick  nicht  begreift,  warum  es  nicht  ist. 
Sind  die  Frauen  untergeordnete  Wesen  ?  Menschen  zweiter 
Klasse  ?  Haben  sie  an  den  offentlichen  Angelegenheiten  ein 
geringeres  Interesse  als  die  Manner  ?  Fehlt  es  ihnen  an  den 
notigen  geistigen  und  sittlichen  Eigenschaften  ?  Kein  Mann 
von  Bildung  wird  diese  Fragen  bejahen.  Und  sie  verneinen 
ist  die  Anerkennung  des  Rechts  der  Frauen  auf  politische 
Gleichberechtigung.     Der  Zukunftsstaat  wird  demnach  brancn 


2  22  COSMOPOLIS. 

///  tier  Regirung  —  sagen  wir  lieber  :  Verwaltung,  denn  das 
'*  Regiren"  wird  aufhoren  —  iind  Gesetzgebung  haben.  Und  das 
vvird  sehr  zutraglich  sein,  da  die  Frauen  allezeit  Hiiterinnen 
guter  Sitte  und  Feinde  der  Rohheit  waren.  Weniger  von 
Folitik  als  die  meisten  Manner  von  heute,  konnen  aiich  die 
ungebiidetsten  Frauen  nicht  verstehen,  und  was  zum  Exempel 
die  Fiuatizkunsi  betrifft,  —  die  im  Zukunftsstaat  sich  freilich 
in  anderer  Form  zu  betatigen  hat,  weil  Steuern,  ZoUe,  Liebes- 
gaben  und  ahnliche  schone  Dinge  mit  samt  der  ganzen 
lieblichen  Geldwirtschaft  im  Zukunftsstaat  fehlen  werden — , 
was  also  die  Finanzkunst  betrifft,  die  fiir  das  schwierigste 
Departement  der  Politik  gilt,  so  wiederhole  ich  hier,  w^as  ich 
neulich  in  einer  Berliner  Frauen v^ersammlung  sagte  :  ''Das 
Arbeiterweib,  das  mit  einem  Budget  von  12  bis  20  Mark  die 
Woche  eine  Familie  zu  erhalten  hat,  muss  mebr  Finanzgenic 
betatigen,  als  der  pfiftigste  Finanzminister  der  Welt."  Und  das 
Weiss  ich,  fiir  kriegerische  Mordabenteuer  stimmt  keine  Frau, 
und  keine  Frau  wiirde  sich  dazu  herablassen,  in  diploma- 
tischen  Komodien  der  Irrungen,  Wirrungen  und  Allerwelts- 
bemoglung  a  la  "  Orientalische  Frage  "  eine  Rolle  zu  iiber- 
nehmen.  Die  Beteiligung  der  Frauen  am  offentlichen  Leben 
ist  meiner  Ueberzeugung  nach  die  festeste  Burgschaft  fiir 
kulturellen  Fortschritt. 

Noch  Eins  sei  hier  bemerkt  an  die  Adresse  Derer,  die  der 
politischen  Gleichherechtigung,  richtiger  der  Miindig-Erklii- 
rung  der  Frauen,  sich  widersetzen  :  die  gesellschaftlich  not- 
wendige  Arbeit  des  Gemeinwesens  wird,  wenn  wir  die  Arbeit 
der  Frau  als  Mutter  und  Erzieherin  —  von  alien  notwendigen 
Arbeiten  die  notwendigste  —  einbegreifen,  zur  grdsseren  Hdlftc 
von  Frauen  vcrrichtct, 

Ich  konnte  nun  Verschiedenes  iiber  die  Stellung  der  Frauen 
im  Zukunftsstaat  schreiben,  indes  ich  denke  :  ist  einmal  die 
Gleichberechtigung  Wahrheit,  so  werden  die  Frauen  von  selbst 
sich  ihre  Stellung  schaffen  und  ihren  Beruf  wahlen  —  genau 
wie  die  Manner. 

Wie  unsere  Tochter  —  und  jetzt  bin  ich  an  der  heikelsten 
Partie  des  Themas  —  wie  unsere  Tochter  und  Sohne  in  Zu- 
kunft  das  Verhaltnis  der  Geschlechter  ordnen  und  regeln 
werden,  das  kann  ich  beim  besten  Willen  nicht  verraten  — 


*'  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES."  223 

schon  heute  fragen  sie  uns  nicht  immer  in  derartigen  Dingen. 
Das  aber  kann  ich  mit  gutem  Gewissen  versichern :  das  Ver- 
haltnis  wird  im  allgemeinen  ein  reineres  und  edieres  sein  als  es 
unter  der  Herrschaft  des  Kapitalismus  ist  und  sein  kann.  Das 
ist  keine  leere  Behauptung.  Ein  Blick  auf  und  in  die  Men- 
schennatur  und  ein  Kornchen  gesunden  Schlussvermogens 
genugt,  um  dies  Jedem,  dersich  nicht  absichtlich  der  Wahrheit 
verschliesst,  klar  zu  machen. 

Niemand  bestreitet,  dass  ein  Gebildeter  im  Durchschnitt 
sittlicher  ist  als  ein  Ungebildeter.  Der  Rousseausche  Natur- 
mensch,  der  den  Kulturmenschen  beschamt,  ist  ein  Traum,  der 
niemals  und  nirgends  Wirklichkeit  war.  Dass  unsere  Kultur 
nicht  AUe  und  Alles  veredelt,  ist  wahr  ;  das  Hegt  aber  nicht  an 
der  Kultur,  sondern  an  der  Barbarei,  die  zu  iiberwinden  der 
Kultur  noch  nicht  gelungen  ist. 

Die  menschliche  Kultur  betatigt  sich  nach  zwei  Richtungen  : 

Erstens  in  Beherrschung  der  Naturkrafte  und  Vervollkomm- 
nung  der  Arbeitsmittel  und  Werkzeuge,  Vermehrung  des 
Reichtums,  der  Outer. 

Zweitens,  in  Erkenntnis  der  Natur  —  Wissen,  Wissenschaft, 
Kunst. 

Beide  Zvveige  der  Tatigkeit  sind  miteinander  verwachsen. 
Erkenntnis  der  Natur  ist  Beherrschung  der  Natur.  Alle  Kul- 
tur aber  ist  das  Produkt  menschlicher  Arbeit.  Durch  die 
Kultur  hat  sich  der  Mensch  uber  die  Tierheit  erhoben ;  er  ist 
jedoch  noch  nicht  dazu  gelangt,  das  in  der  Tierwelt  herr- 
schende  Gesetz  des  "  Kampfs  um  das  Dasein,"  d.  h.  der  Ver- 
gewaltigung  des  Schwachen  durch  den  Starken,  fiir  die  Men- 
schenwelt  zu  unterdriicken,  oder  doch  nur  in  sehr  beschrank- 
tem  Maasse.  Der  Kampf  ums  Dasein,  den  der  Sozialismus 
durch  Vereinigung  der  Menschen  zum  gemeinsamen  Kampf  und 
Ringen  um  ein  menschenwiirdiges  Dasein  fiir  Alle  beendigen 
wird,  hat  in  der  menschlichen  Gesellschaft  eine  wirtschaftliche 
Ungleichheit  und  einen  Widerstreit  der  Interessen  erzeugt,  die 
eine  nie  versiegende  Quelle  des  Elends,  Lasters  und  Verbre- 
chens  sind.  Wer  erliegt  im  Kampfe  um  das  Dasein,  der  ist 
verloren  und  verdammt  ;  und  so  lange  das  Interesse  zur  Prosti- 
tution, zum  Lug,  zum  Betrug,  zum  Diebstahl,  zum  Einbruch, 
zum  Raubmord  reizt,  wird   Prostitution,   Lug,   Betrug,   Dieb- 


224  COSMOPOLIS. 

stahl,  Einbruch,  Raubmord  eine  geseilschaftliche  Einrichtung 
sein  —  auch  wenn  jeder  zweite  Mensch  in  eine  Polizeiuniform 
gesteckt  wird.  Erst  wenn  dieser  Widerstreit  der  Interessen, 
der  im  Fundament  der  heutigen  Gesellschaft  wurzelt,  sich  in 
sozialistische  Harmonie  aufgelost  hat,  wird  die  Bildung,  die 
heute  nur  zu  oft  dem  Laster  und  Verbrechen  zu  dienen  hat, 
alle  Menschen  veredeln  und  die  Bahn  des  Lasters  und  Ver- 
brechens  absperren. 

In  der  sozialistischen  Gesellschaft,  die  Frauen  und  Mannern 
ohne  Unterschied  und  Ausnahme  den  Born  des  Wissens  und 
der  Bildung  erschliesst  und  jedem  ihrer  Glieder  die  Teilnahme 
an  alien  Errungenschafteii  der  Kultur  sichert,  fehlt  der  Grunil 
des  Lasters  und  Verbrechens.  Und  insbesondere  die  Prostitu- 
tion^ diese  "  Pest,"  an  deren  Ausrottung  die  heutige  Gesell- 
schaft seit  einem  Jahrhundert  erfolglos  arbeitet,  —  erfolglos, 
weil  sie  selber  dem  Uebel  fortwahrend  Nahrung  zufiihrt — ,  ist 
zur  Unmoglichkeit  geworden.  Es  wird  noch  Ausbriiche  der 
Leidenschaft,  meinetwegen  Verbrechen  der  Leidenschaft  ge- 
ben,  aber  Prostitution  und  gemeine  Kriminalitat  sind  "  iiber- 
wundene  Standpunkte."  Das  Verbrechen  kann  nichts  Er- 
strebenswertes  mehr  bieten,  was  die  Gesellschaft  nicht  freiwillig 
alien  ihren  Gliedern  als  ein  Recht  bietet.  Und  die  Prostitution  ? 
Hat  sich  je  ein  Weib  der  Prostitution  uberliefert  ohne  Not 
und  ohne  Entsittlichung  durch  soziales  Elend  ?  (Man  denke 
an  die  Hohlen  der  Armut,  wo  Erwachsene  beider  Geschlechter 
bunt  zusammengepfercht  sind,  erwachsene  Kinder  mit  den 
Eltern  zusammenschlafen  u.  s.  w.)  Und  wer  soil  denn  zur 
Prostitution  verleiten  und  verleitet  werden,  wenn  Niemand  vor 
die  Wahl  gestellt  ist,  sich  zu  verkaufen  oder  zu  verhungern, 
und  wenn  Niemand  mehr  in  der  Lage  ist,  einen  Anderen  zu 
zu  kaufen  ?  Wenn  der  Miissiggang  aufhort,  der  sprichwortlich 
aller  Laster  Anfang  ist  ? 

In  der  sozialistischen  Gesellschaft  besteht  die  allgemcine 
Arbeitspflicht,  —  natiirlich  nicht  fiir  Schwache  und  Kranke. 
Die  Arbeit  aber  ist  nicht  bloss  die  Quelle  des  Reichtums  und 
der  Kultur,  sondern  fiir  das  Individuum  auch  der  Sittlichkeit. 
Nichts  Sittlicheres  und  nichts  Sittigenderes  als  die  Arbeit. 
Und  die  Arbeit  ist  der  Fels,  auf  dem  der  "  Zukunftsstaat "  sich 
aufbaut,  —  die  Arbeit  aller  Arbeitsfahigen  —  die  Arbeit  eines 


•*  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES."  225 

jeden  Gesellschaftsglieds  fiir  sich  selbst  unci  fur  die  Gesamt* 
heit.  Kein  Mensch  soil  fiir  einen  anderen  arbeiten,  ausser 
freiwillig  und  ausser  insofern  als  der  Andere  ein  Teil  der 
Gesamtheit  ist  und  an  dem  Ertrag  der  Gesamtarbeit  Teil  haK 
Vor  "  Teilerei "  in  irgend  welcher  Gestalt  braucht  sich  da 
Niemand  zu  fiirchten.  Die  kasernen-  oder  zuchthausmassige 
"  Teilerei "  der  "  Portionen,"  das  Schreckbild  so  vieler  Zu- 
kunftsstaats-Feinde,  wird  mit  den  Kasernen,  Zuchthausern  und 
dem  ganzen  Kapitalismus  den  Weg  alles  Fleisches  gehn.  Jeder 
Mann  und  jede  Frau  sollen  nach  ihrer  Fa9on  selig  werden,  — 
Zwang  und  Zwangsmittel  kennt  der  sozialistische  Staat  nicht. 
Und  deshalb  wol  haben  ihn  politische  Spassvogel,  nacli  Ana- 
logie  des  lucns  a  non  lucendo,  "  Zwangsstaat "  getauft.  Zum 
Zwang  gehort  Einer,  der  zwingt,  und  Einer,  der  gezwungen 
wird.  Der  Gegenwartsstaat  hat  drei  grosse  Zwinger  :  das 
Zuchthaiis,  die  Kaserne  und  den  Hunger,  Sie  alle  Drei  sterben 
mit  dem  Gegenwartsstaat,  und  fiir  einen  andern  Zwinger  ist 
im  Zukunftsstaat  —  in  der  Gesellschaft  der  Freien  und 
Gleichen — kein  Raum. 

Unter  der  Herrschaft  des  Sozialismus  werden  die  zvvei 
Hauptfunktionen  der  Gesellschaft  sein  : 

I.)  die  Organisation  der  Arbeit  als  materielle, 

2.)  die  Organisation  der  Erziehiing  als  moralische  und  intel- 
lektuelle  Grundlage  der  Gesellschaft. 

Ohne  Arbeit  kann  die  mensdhliche  Gesellschaft  nicht  be- 
stehn.  Der  Mensch  lebt  zwar  nicht,  um  zu  arbeiten,  aber  er 
muss  arbeiten,  um  zu  leben.  Durch  Vervollkommnung  der 
Werkzeuge  und  der  Technik,  durch  gesteigerte  Concentrirung 
der  Arbeiter  und  der  Arbeitsmittel  u.  s.  w.  wird  die  Arbeit  von 
Tag  zu  Tag  produktiver.  Die  moderne  Grossindustrie  erzeugt 
das  Hundertfache,  das  Tausendfache  an  Waaren  gegen  das 
mittelalterliche  Handwerk.  Das  wird  von  Keinem  geleugnet. 
Wenn  nun  diejenigen  Faktoren,  welche  die  Produktivitiit  der 
Arbeit  vermehren,  gestarkt  werden,  so  muss  auch  die  Produk- 
tivitat  sich  vermehren.  Und  in  einer  Gesellschaft,  welche  die 
Arbeit  planmassig  organisirt,  wird  das  unzweifelhaft  gescliehen. 
In  kiirzerer  Zeit,  mit  weniger  Arbeit,  wird  mehr  produzirt 
werden.  Welche  Kraftevergeudung  jetzt  durch  die  Zersplitte- 
rung  der  Krafte  und  der  Arbeit !  In  Staatsanstalten  und  in  den 

VOL.  IX. — NO.  XXV.  lf> 


226  COSMOPOLIS. 

modernen  Riesenhotels  wird  z.  B.  Kiichenarbeitf  wdche,  in  ein- 
zelnen  Kamilien  verrichtet,  die  Kraftevon  Hunderten  erheischt, 
von  einem  Dutzend  Menschen  —  und  von  nicht  dem  zehnten 
Teil  der  Krafte  verrichtet.  Die  amerikanischen  Riesenhotels 
sind  in  ihrer  Art  bewundernswerte  Anstalten.  Und  hier  will 
ich  gleich  einen  Einwand  erledigen,  der  oft  gegen  das  gemein- 
same  Speisen  erhoben  wird.  Die  Amerikaner  sind  gewiss 
"  Individualisten,"  das  heisst  Leute,  die  gern  nach  ihrer 
eigenen  Art  leben  und  ihre  Personlichkeit  nicht  unterdrucken 
lassen.  In  Amerika  gibt  es  aber  —  was  jeder  Kenner  der 
Vereinigten  Staaten  mir  bezeugen  wird  —  viele  Leute,  die  das 
Wohnen  im  Hotel  einer  eigenen  Wohnung  vorziehen.  Ich 
verkehrte  in  einer  solchen  Familie,  der  Mann  Professor  an  der 
Universitat,  die  Frau  Aerztin,  die  Sohne  im  College  (einer  der 
zur  Universitat  gehorigen  Schulen),  die  Tochter  desgleichen. 
Auf  meine  Frage  antwortete  mir  der  Hausvater  —  und  die 
Frau  bestatigte  es  :  "  Wir  leben  bequemer  und  billiger  im 
Hotel."  Und  das  war  richtig.  An  den  notwendigen  Privat- 
riiumen  fehlte  es  natiirlich  nicht,  und  die  Kiiche  und  die 
iibrigen  Einrichtungen  des  Hotels  (Besuchszimmer  fiir  Damen 
und  Herren,  Kaffee-  und  Rauchzimmer,  Lesesaal,  Speisesaal 
u.  s.  w.)  boten  an  den  hochsten  Luxus  reichende  Bequemlich- 
keiten  und  Vorteile,  die  bei  Privatwirtschaft  nur  Millionare 
sich  leisten  konnen  —  und  zwar  amerikanische  Millionare. 
Auf  die  gemeinsamen  Raume  ist  der  auf  Miete  im  Hotel 
Wohnende  nicht  angewiesen.  Will  er  nicht  in  dem  Speise- 
saal essen,  so  kann  er  die  Mahlzeit  in  seinen  Privatraumen 
haben.     Die  Freunde,  von  denen  ich  rede,  hielten  es  so. 

Glaube  man  indes  nicht,  ich  befiirworte  das  System  der 
Massenwohnungen.  Fiir  mein  Teil  bin  ich  eher  fur  das 
Cottage  -  System,  die  Einzelwohnungen.  Halte  das  Jeder, 
wie  er  will.  Auch  fiir  die  Cottages  lasst  die  sozialistische 
Praxis  gemeinsamer  Wirtschaft  —  ich  meine  :  Verwaltung  — 
sich  leicht  einfiihren. 

Auf  Vereinfachung  aller  Wirtschafts  -  Funktionen  drangt 
schon  die  heutige  Gesellschaft.  Man  betrachte  nur  die  immer 
mehr  sich  verbreitenden  und  ausdehnenden  Bazare,  die  den 
Kleinhandel  zusehends  aufsaugen  :  Stewart  in  New  York, 
Spiers  &  Pond  in   London,  den  Louvre  in  Paris,  Werthcim  in 


"  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES."  227 

Berlin,  —  das  ist  schon  ein  Vorgeschmack  des  Zukunfts- 
staats.  Wozu  fruher  Dutzende  und  Hunderte  von  Geschaften 
dienten,  das  wird  hier  von  einem  Geschaft  besorgt  —  und 
besser.  Am  weitesten  getrieben  ist  die  Concentration  und 
Zusammenfassung  wol  in  dem  kolossalen  Londoner  Etablisse- 
ment,  das  den  Namen  Spiers  &  Pond  tragt,  eine  Anzahl  von 
Hotels  besitzt  und  in  London  und  alien  grosseren  Provinz- 
stadten  Englands  Irlands  und  Schottlands  Zweige  hat.  Dort  ist 
Alleszuhaben.  Buchstablich  Alles.  Und  muhelos.  Ich  brauche 
Mobel,  Kleider,  Kurzwaaren,  Weisswaaren, —  ein  Wort  (raund- 
lich,  brieflich,  telegraphisch,  telephonisch)  an  Spiers  &  Pond, 
und  ich  bekomme  das  Gevvunschte.  Ich  will  Wasche  ge- 
waschen  haben,  eine  Wohnung  einrichten,  ein  Essen  geben, — 
ein  Wort  an  Spiers  &  Pond,  und  meine  Wiinsche  sind  er- 
fuUt  mit  der  Punktlichkeit  von  Genien  aus  Tausend  und  Eine 
Nacht,  und  so  ziemlich  mit  der  gleichen  Ueberwindung  von 
Raum  und  Zeit.  Ich  brauche  ein  Klavier,  einen  Hummer  oder 
Lachs,  eine  Hammelkeule,  einen  Aufwarter,  eine  Compagnie 
Aufwarter  fur  ein  Gartenfest,  ein  Haus,  ein  Landgut,  —  ein 
Wort  an  Spiers  &  Pond,  und  soweit  es  iiberhaupt  menschren- 
mdglich,  habe  ich,  was  ich  verlangt.  Kurz,  es  gibt  nichts  — 
ich  wenigstens  habe  bis  jetzt  nichts  gefunden  —  das  fur  Geld 
zu  haben  ist,  was  nicht  bei  Spiers  &  Pond  zu  haben  ware. 
Ohne  das  Geld  ware  es  der  reine  Zukunftsstaat. 

Die  Vorteile  dieser  Concentration  bedurfen  keines  Hervor- 
hebens.  Es  ist  das  kein  Sozialismus,  —  die  Herren  Spiers  & 
Pond  nebst  ihren  Teilhabern  sind  gute  Bourgeois-Kapitalisten, 
die  das  Geschaft  um  des  Profits  willen  betreiben  —  aber  es  ist 
ein  "  Hineinwachsen  in  den  Sozialismus."  Wenn  einmal  in 
der  ganzen  biirgerlichen  Gesellschaft  die  Verteilung  der 
Waaren  und  Giiter  an  die  Consumenten  in  dieser  Weise 
geregelt  ist,  und  wenn  auch  die  Produktion  sich  durchweg  so 
concentrirt  hat,  wie  es  in  der  Grossindustrie  zum  grossen 
Teil  schon  der  Fall  ist,  so  stehen  nur  noch  wenige  Personen 
zwischen  der  kapitalistischen  und  der  sozialistischen  Gesell- 
schaft, und  der  Uebergang  wird  fast  unmerklich  sein. 

Auf  dem  Gebiete  der  Waarenerzeugung  (Produktion)  ist 
die  Concentrirung  bereits  viel  weiter  fortgeschritten  als  auf 
dem  der  Waarenverteilung.     In  der  Industrie  unserer  Kultur- 


228  COSMOPOLIS. 

lander  hat  der  Grossbetrieb  den  Kleinbetrieb  iiberholt,  ihn 
hier  und  da  schon  verdrangt  und  wird  ihn  bald  uberall  ver- 
drangt  haben.  Was  von  der  Industrie  gilt,  gilt  auch  von  der 
Landwirtschaft,  die  ja  im  weiteren  Sinn  auch  Industrie  ist, 
trotz  des  Interessen-Gegensatzes,  in  den  sie  vieltach  zur 
schlechtweg  Industrie  genannten  Fabrikindustrie  geraten,  zum 
Teil  auch  kunstlich  gebracht  worden  ist.  Im  Wesentlichen 
sind  die  gleichen  wirtschaftlichen  Gesetze  maassgebend  fur 
beide  Hauptaste  der  Produktion.  Wenn  in  der  Landwirt- 
schaft die  Concentrirung  des  Betriebes  und  des  Eigentums 
nicht  so  rasch  vor  sich  gegangen  ist,  vvie  in  der  Fabrik- 
industrie, so  liegt  das  in  der  konservativen  Natur  des  Acker- 
baues,  der  viele  Tausend  Jahre  alter  ist  als  die  Industrie  und 
die  Zahigkeit  des  Alters  im  Festhalten  des  Alten  hat. 

Die  Concentrirung  des  Kapitals,  welche  zur  Vernichtung 
des  Kleineigentums  fuhrt — eineTatsache,  die  durch  Falschung 
der  Statistik  nicht  vvegzupraktiziren  ist  — ,  entzieht  dem  Klein- 
betrieb die  Existenzbedingungen,  so  dass,  soil  Industrie  und 
Landwirtschaft  nicht  das  Monopol  einer  Handvoll  von 
Kapitalisten-Dynastien  werden,  nur  der  sozialistische  Betrieb, 
das  heisst,  der  Betrieb  durch  und  fur  das  Gemeinwesen,  als 
okonomische  und  soziale  Notwendigkeit  iibrig  bleibt.  Durch 
Concentrirung  samtlicher  Arbeitsmittel  des  Gemeinwesens, 
ist  der  sozialistische  Betrieb  in  der  Lage,  die  Produktivitat 
der  Arbeit  weit  uber  die  Fahigkeit  der  kapitalistischen 
Grossproduktion  hinaus  zu  erhohen.  Und  da  zu  der  Con- 
centration aller  Arbeitsmittel  noch  die  Planmdssigkeit  der 
sozialistischen  Produktion  hinzu  kommt,  so  kann  es  fur 
jeden,  der  von  den  okonomischen  Faktoren  einen  Begriff 
hat,  keinem  Zweifel  unterworfen  sein,  dass  der  "Zu- 
kunftsstaat"  eine  ungleich  grossere  Gesamtsumme  von 
"  Nationalreichtum  "  bei  geringerer  Arbeitszeit  erzeugen  wird 
als  der  Gegenwartsstaat. 

Freilich,  das  wird  von  den  Verteidigern  der  Privatwirtschaft 
unter  Hinweis  auf  die  "  Segnungen  der /r^tVn  Konkurrenz" 
bestritten.  Die  "  freie  Konkurrenz  "  soil  nach  den  Lobrednern 
der  "  wirtschaftlichen  Freiheit "  —  von  uns  Sozialisten 
wirtschaftliche  Anarchic  genannt  —  "die  Triebfeder  aller 
wirtschaftlichen  Tatigkeit  und  alles  wirtschaftlichen  —  auch 


"  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES."  229 

sonstigen  —  Fortschrittes "  sein.  In  Wahrheit  ist  sie  ein 
Hemmschuh  der  Produktion  und  des  Fortschritts,  weil  sie  die 
Arbeitskrafte  vergeudet  und  planlos  verwendet.  Wenn  die 
verschiedenen  Industrien  nach  einem  gemeinsamen  Plan  ein- 
heitlich  betrieben  werden,  statt  unter  der  Herrschaft  der  "freien 
Konkurrenz "  nach  den  verschiedenen,  einander  entgegenar- 
beitenden  Planen  der  einzelnen  Privatunternehmer,  so  ist  ein- 
leuchtend,  dass  mit  geringeren  Kraften  sich  grossere  Resultate 
erzielen  lassen. 

Und  vollends  das  Gerede  :  mit  dem  Privatinteresse,  das  in 
der  freien  Konkurrenz  sich  Befriedigung  schafft,  verschwinde 
der  Tatigkeitstrieb,  der  Trieb  zur  Arbeit,  ist  ganzlich  haltlos 
und  eine  durch  die  Tatsachen  sattsam  widerlegte  Verleumdung 
der  menschlichen  Natur. 

Im  Staatsdienst,  im  Dienste  der  Kunst  und  Wissenschaft, 
also  auf  den  Gebieten  edelster  und  hochster  Leistung  spiell 
das  Privatinteresse  im  Sinne  der  freien  Konkurrenz  eine  sehr 
untergeordnete  Rolle  ;  und  je  mehr  die  geistige  und  sittliche 
Bildung  der  Menschen  gepflegt  wird,  desto  untergeordneter 
und  unwichtiger  wird  diese  Rolle. 

Der  Trieb  zur  Arbeit  bedarf  keines  kiinstlichen  Stachels  — 
nur  einer  Regelung.  Er  ist  uns  angeboren  und  steckt  in 
jedem  Menschen.  Und  wer  da  behauptet,  wie  es  nur  zu 
oft  geschieht,  dass  ohne  den  Stachel  des  Interesses  oder  ohne 
ausseren  Zwang  der  Mensch  nicht  arbeite  —  die  meisten,  die 
so  reden,  arbeiten  selber  nicht  —  der  kann  sich  beim  ersten 
besten  Gefangniswarter  eines  Besseren  belehren.  In  jeder  Zelle 
jedes  deutschen  Gefangnisses  hangt  eine  Tafel  mit  Vorschriften 
fur  die  Insassen  ;  und  auf  jeder  Tafel  wird  die  Entziehung  der 
Arbeit  als  Strafe  angedroht  !  Nichts  filrchtet  der  Gefangenc 
mehr  als  diese  "  Disziplinarstrafe,"  und  im  Durchschnitt  sincl 
die  Gefangenen  weder  die  Arbeitsfahigsten  noch  die  Arbeits- 
lustigsten.  Der  Mensch  muss  arbeiten.  Die  Arbeit  ist  es,  die 
ihn  uber  das  Tier  stellt.  Abgesehen  von  der  wirtschaftlichen 
Notwendigkeit,  ist  sie  ihm  kategorischer  Imperativ.  Von  Natur 
hat  jeder  normale  Mensch  den  Trieb  zur  Arbeit.  Das  Kind 
bringt  ihn  mit  ins  Leben.  Was  falschlich  und  oberflachlich 
als  "  Ungezogenheit "  bezeichnet  wird,  ist  in  999  von  1000 
Fallen    ubel    angebrachter,   ubel    geleiteter    Tatigkeitsdranj^'. 


230  COSMOPOLIS. 

Ihn   zu   regeln,  ist   das    Problem   der   Erziehung.     Man   be- 
beschaftige  das  Kind,   man  gebe  ihm  irgend   eine   passende 
Arbeit    oder   Verrichtung,  —  die   "  Ungezogenheit "    ist    wie 
weggeblasen,  und  die  Kinder  arbeiten  mit  demselben  Feuer- 
eifer,  mit  dem  sie  spielen.     Die  Arbeit  ist  ihnen  Spiel.     Die 
Herren   Fabrikanten  haben  das  wol  begriffen,  —  sie  kennen 
den  Wert  der  Kinderarbeit.      In    England  haben  sie  kleine 
Wiirmchen  von  vier  Jahren   in  die  Fabriken  geschleppt,  bis 
die  Gesetzgebung  einen  Riegel  vorschob.     Und  nicht  bloss  in 
England.      Fiir  die  Fabrik  freilich  eignet   die   Kinderarbeit 
sich  nicht,  oder  richtiger,  die  Fabrik  eignet  sich  nicht  fur  die 
Kinderarbeit.      Ich   meine  die  Fabrik  des  Gegenwartsstaats. 
Das   Kind    hat   Abwechslung   notig,   kann    nicht    lange   bei 
einem  Gegenstand  verweilen.     Aber  wie   nutzbringend  —  fur 
das  Kind  und  fiir  die  Gesellschaft  —  die    Kinderarbeit  sich 
verwerten  lasst,  das  hat  der  grosse  Sozialreformer  und  Pada- 
goge  Robert  Owen  in    seiner   schottischen    Musterfabrik    be- 
wiesen,  wo  die  Kinderarbeit  zugleich  padagogisch  und  indu- 
striell  organisirt  wurde.     Die  Arbeits-Schulen  Robert  0>vens 
haben  erzieherisch  so  ausserordentlich  gut  und  so  nachhaltig 
gewirkt,  dass  nach  amtlichen  Feststellungen  die  Volksbildung 
in  der  Grafschaft  New  Lanarkshire,  wo  Owens  Fabrik  war, 
noch  heute  eine  hohere  ist  als  in  irgend  einer  anderen  Grafschaft 
Schottlands,  das  bekanntlich  ein  viel  besseres  Volksschulwesen 
hat  als  England.     Und  dieser  Erfolg  ist  einzig  und  allein  auf 
das  Owensche  Erziehungs-System    zuriickzufiihren,   das   den 
Unterricht  mit  Arbeit   und  Spiel  verband    und   das  sich    in 
jenen  Gegenden  noch   teilweise    erhalten     hat,   obgleich    die 
Musterfabrik    Robert  Owens    schon  vor  fast  achtzig  Jahren 
seiner  personlichen  Leitung  entriickt  ward.     Im  "Zukunfts- 
staat  "  wird  die  Kinderarbeit  sicherlich  ein  bedeutsamer  Faktor 
der    korperlichen    und   geistigen    Erziehung   werden.      Dem 
Ksipitalismus,  der  seinem  Wesen  nach  die  Arbeit  ausbeuten 
muss,  kann  man  die  Kinder  freilich  nicht  anvertrauen. 

Der  Uebergang  aus  der  kapitalistischen  in  die  sozialistische 
Produktion  und  Gesellschaftsordnung  wird  voraussichtlich 
viel  leichter  sein  als  der  Uebergang  der  biirgerlichen  Klein- 
produktion  in  die  kapitalistische  Grossproduktion  war  und 
ist.     Es  werden   jedenfalls  nicht  ganze  Bevolkerungschichten 


*'  ZOKUMFt^STAAtLICH  ES.'^  i^  I 

weggeschwemmt,  nicht  Millionen  und  Millionen  fleissiger 
Menschen  ihres  Eigentums  beraubt  und  in  das  Proletariat 
herabgeschleudert,  nicht  Millionen  und  Millionen  durch  anar- 
chistische  Wirtschaft  zu  den  Tantalusqualen  der  "  Massen- 
armut "  bei  chronischer  **  Ueberproduktion  "  verurteilt  werden. 
Niemand  wird  zu  Schaden  kommen,  Niemand  etwas  verlieren, 
was  des  Besitzes  wert  ist  ;  und  die  ungeheuere  Mehrheit  der 
Menschen  wird  aus  dem  Elend  herausgerissen,  und  AUe 
werden  das  Hochste  gewinnen,  was  der  Mensch  gewinnen 
kann  :  ein  menschenwiirdiges  Dasein. 

Selbst  "  Konig  Stumm  "  wurde  sich  verbessern.  Mit  der 
Keserveoffiziers-Uniform  und  den  Reserveoffiziers-Manieren 
ware  es  freilich  vorbei.  Dafiir  wiirde  er  aber  bei  vollster 
Befriedigung  aller  leiblichen  Bediirfnisse  —  mehr  als  einen 
Magen  hat  ja  kein  Mensch  —  die  vollste  Gelegenheit  haben, 
sich  der  edelsten  Geistesgeniisse  zu  erfreuen.  Und  das  ware 
ihm  ohne  Zweifel  zutraglich.  Also  warum  so  berserkerhaft  auf 
uns  loswettern  ?  Wir  Sozialisten  sind  ja  tolerant  ;  wir  wollen 
keinen  Menschen  vergewaltigen  und  achten  das  Recht  der 
freien  Meinung, — sogar  das  Recht  auf  Narrheit  1 

Der  Uebergang  in  die  sozialistische  Gesellschaft  wird 
Okonomisch  um  so  leichter  verlaufen,  je  weiter  die  okono- 
mische  Concentration  der  kapitalistischen  Wirtschaft  ge- 
diehen  ist.  Der  Kleinbetrieb  in  Industrie  und  Landwirtschaft 
ist,  so  lange  er  an  seine  Lebensfahigkeit  glaubt,  dem  Sozialis- 
mus  schwer  zuganglich  ;  erst  wenn  er  sieht,  dass  die  Kon- 
kurrenz  des  Grossbetriebs  ihn  ohne  Gnade  erdriickt,  neigt  er 
sich  dem  Sozialismus  zu.  Im  Klcineigcntnm  ist  die  Stiitze  der 
burgerlichen  Gesellschaft.  Millionen  von  Kleinbauern  und 
Kleinburgern  (Handwerkern,  Kramern  u.  s.  w.)  sind  an  sich 
selbstverstandlich  eine  festere  Stiitze  als  ein  paar  Tausend 
Grosskapitalisten.  Nun  sind  es  aber  durch  eine  beissende 
Ironie  der  Weltgeschichte  eben  die  Grosskapitalisten,  die  den 
Kleinbetrieb  und  in  ihm  das  Kleineigentum  zerstoren,  zer- 
storen  tniissen.  In  England  ist  dieser  Zerstorungsprozess  am 
Weitesten  fortgeschritten  und  folglich  auch  der  Uebergang 
am  leichtesten. 

Zur  Veranschaulichung,  ein  Beispiel  aus  der  Heimat.  Herr 
Kntpp  in  Essen  verkorpert  —  wie  berechnet  worden  ist  —  in 


232  COSMOPOLIS 

seiner  grossindustriellen  Person  die  industrielle  Produktiv- 
kraft  von  100,000  (hunderttausend)  Schmiedemeistern  mit 
Handwerksbetrieb.  Hunderttausend  Schmiedemeister  zur 
sozialistischen  Organisation  zu  bringen,  ware  ein  hart  Stuck 
Arbeit.  Mit  dem  cinen  Herrn  Krupp  erledigt  sich  zur  ge- 
gebenen  Zeit  die  Sache  in  zwei  Minuten  freundschaftlicher 
Unterhaltung  unter  vier  Augen.  Dann  kann  der  Betrieb  ohne 
Unterbrechung  sofort  weiter  gehen  ;  statt  der  Kanonen  werden 
allerdings  niitzlichere  Stahl-und  Eisenwaarcn  verfertigt  werden. 
Der  Krupps  gibt  es  in  England  gar  viele,  und  nicht  bloss  in 
der  Eisenindustrie.  Und  England  hat  in  seinen  trefflichen 
Gciverkschaften  (Trades  Unions)  die  geeignetsten  Organe  fiir 
die  wirtschaftliche  Umgestaltung  der  Gesellschaft  und  die 
sozialistische  Organisation  der  Arbeit.  Von  vorschauenden, 
staatmannischen  Politikern  soUten  deshalb  die  Gewerkschaften 
als  die  berufenen  Retter  aus  dem  Chaos  der  zusammen- 
brechenden  Welt  des  Kapitalismus  aufs  sorgsamste  gehegt 
werden.  Die  Staatsweisheit  unseres  lieben  Deutschlands 
betrachtet  sie  als  Feinde  des  Staats  und  der  Gesellschaft  und 
macht  ihnen  das  Leben  nach  Moglichkeit  sauer. 

Die  Organisation  der  Arbeit  wird  durch  ein  Arbcitsamt  — 
was  immer  der  Titel  sei  —  zu  leiten  sein,  das  fiir  den  ganzen 
Umfang  des  Gemeinwesens  die  Erzeugung  und  Verteilung 
der  Waaren  zu  regeln,  den  Austausch  mit  den  verbiindeten 
sozialistischen  Gemeinwesen  (so  lange  diese  noch  nicht  in  eins 
verschmolzen  sind)  und  den  noch  nicht  zum  Sozialismus  ent- 
wickelten  Landern  zu  vermitteln  und  in  dieser  Eigenschaft 
audi  als  Departement  des  Aeusseren  zu  funktioniren  hat. 
Bine  andere  "auswartige"  Politik  wird  es  vermutlich  nicht 
geben,  da  es  keine  Zunftpolitiker,  Militars  und  Diplomaten 
mehr  geben  wird. 

Und  nun  zu  der  zweiten  Hauptaufgabe  des  Zukunftstaats  : 
zur  Organisation  der  Erziehttng.  Wiihrend  die  Arbeit  die 
materiellen  Mittel  fiir  den  Bestand  der  Gesellschaft  zu  schaffen 
hat,  ist  es  der  Zweck  der  Erziehung,  die  Glieder  der  Gesell- 
schaft zu  Menschen  heranzubilden.  Unter  Erziehung  ver- 
stehen  wir  nicht  bloss  die  Schulerziehung  der  Jugend, 
sondern  die  Erziehung  eines  jeden  Gesellschaftsglieds  von 
friihester   Kindheit  an   und  das  Leben   hindurch  :  Erziehung 


**  ZUKUOTTSSTAATLICHESr  233 

durch  die  Mutter,  Erziehung  in  Kindergarten,  in  der  Elemen- 
tarschule,  in  Fachschulen,  in  Akademien,  in  Kunst-  und 
Hochschulen,  —  uber  die  Schule  hinaus  methodische  Er- 
ziehung  durch  Kunst,  Litteratur  und  Wissenschaft.  Mit  der 
Erziehung  ist  es  heute  erbarmlich  bestellt.  In  Deutschland, 
das  bis  vor  Kurzem  —  namlich  bis  zur  Absetzung  des  "  Schul- 
meistersvon  Sadowa"  durch  den  franzosischen  Schulmeister  — 
im  Rufe  stand,  die  besten  Schulen  zu  haben,  ist  der  Schul- 
unterricht  fur  neun  Zehntel  der  Bevolkerung  schmachvoli 
ungenugend.  Auch  die  bescheidensten  Forderungen  der 
Padagogik  bieiben  unerfiillt.  Von  Individualisirung,  von 
Wissenschafthchkeit  des  Unterrichts  keine  Spur.  Um  unsere 
Volksschule  ihres  Namens  wert  zu  machen,  brauchten  wir 
von  vornherein  die  zehnfache  Zahl  von  Lehrern  und  die 
zehnfache  Zahl  von  Schulen — nicht  Stdllen,  wie  heutzutage 
tausende  von  Schulhausern  es  sind  —  und  zehnfach  hdhere 
LeisUingen  der  Schule.  Fiir  jedes  Kind  ohne  Unterschied  der 
Geschlechter  die  gleiche,  die  beste  Erziehung.  Nicht  mecha- 
nisch  gleich,  sondern  der  Individualitat  jedes  Kindes  sich 
anpassend.  Und  die  Erziehung  fiir  den  Leib  sowol  wie  fiir 
den  Geist.  Fiir  jedes  Kind  ohne  Unterschied  des  Geschlechts 
das  gleiche  Anrecht  auf  die  hoheren  Schulen,  je  nach  den 
Fahigkeiten  und  Neigungen  der  Zoglinge. 

Aber  ich  will  nicht  ins  Einzelne  gehen.  Mit  Bezug  auf  das 
Schulwesen  erstrebt  die  Sozialdemokratie  nichts,  was  nicht 
jeder  freidenkende  und  konsequente  Padagog  des  Gegenwart- 
staats  schon  heute  erstrebte.  Ich  erinnere  an  den  braven,  leider 
von  der  Menge  fast  vergessenen  Professor  Ross nidssler  in  Leipzig, 
der,  ein  gliihender  Freund  der  Volksschule,  kurz  vor  seinem 
Tod  sich  noch  zum  Sozialismus  bekehrte,  nachdem  er  sich 
iiberzeugt  hatte,  dass  nur  der  Sozialismus  eine  wirklkhc 
Volkserziehung  ins  Leben  zu  rufen  vermoge.  Und  das  muss 
mir  zugestanden  werden,  dass  bei  allgemeiner  Volkserziehung, 
wie  wir  sie  fiir  den  Zukunftsstaat  wollen,  weit  mehr  Talente 
entwickelt,  weit  mehr  in  Kunst  und  Wissenschaft  geleistet 
werden  wird  als  jetzt,  wo  neun  Zehntel  der  Talente  ver- 
kommen  und  der  Rest  zum  grossten  Teil  nur  mangelhaft 
ausgebildet  wird.  Und  die  Arbeit  wird  besser.  Ich  hore 
nochy  als  ware  es  gestern  gewesen,  Richard  Cobden  in  einem 


234  COSMOPOLIS. 

Meeting  zu  London  (es  ist  schon  lange  her  —  vor  fast  einem 
halben  Jahrhundert)  mit  flammender  Beredsamkeit  darlegen, 
dass  das  Volk,  welches  die  gebildetsten  Arbeiter  hat,  das 
reichste  und  machtigste  werden  musse,  weil  seine  Arbeit  die 
beste.     Und  der  hat  es  gewusst. 

Bei  der  ausserordentlichen  Wichtigkeit  des  Erziehungs- 
wesens  wird  das  Erziehnngsamt,  in  dessen  Wirkungskreis  auch 
das  Departement  der  Kunst  und  Wissenschaft  gehort,  nebcn 
dem  Arbeitsamt  das  wichtigste  Verwaltungsamt  der  kiinftigen 
Gesellschaft  sein. 

Ich  konnte  nun  noch  meine  Gedanken  uber  verschiedene 
Dinge  mitteilen,  die  mit  dem  Zukunftsstaat  vvirklich  oder 
vermeintlich  zu  tun  haben  ;  doch  ich  enthalte  mich.  Wer 
mir  bis  hierher  gefolgt  ist,  kann  sich  Einzelheiten  aus  dem 
Gebotenen  selber  herleiten.  Auf  die  Frage  nach  der  kiinftigen 
Gesellschaftsordnung  habe  ich  mit  der  Schilderung  der  ge- 
genwartigen  Gesellschaftsordnung  geantwortet,  die  aus  dem 
Kapitalismus  in  den  Sozialismus  hineinwachst.  Vor  Zukunfts- 
malerei  habe  ich  mich  gehiitet,  in  meiner  Artwort  aber  ist  die 
Antwort  auf  Detailfragen  enthalten.  Zum  Beispiel,  die  Frage 
nach  dem  Geld  im  Zukunftsstaat.  Wer  die  Funktionen  des 
Geldes  kennt,  weiss,  dass  es  in  einer  Gesellschaft,  die  keinerlei 
Handel  treibt,  keine  Waarenerzeugung  aus  Spekulation  und 
zum  Profit  hat,  vollkommen  uberfliissig  ist.  Hochstens  fiir 
den  Verkehr  mit  riickstandigen  Volkern  konnte  Gold  und  Silber 
gebraucht  werden  konnen,  bis  sie  sich  ebenfalls  in  den 
Sozialismus  gefliichtet  haben.  Vielleicht  rettet  das  Geld  sich 
auch  als  Rechenpfennig  fiir  Karten-  und  Dominospiel  in  den 
Zukunftsstaat,  falls  in  diesem  die  Menschen  noch  an  der- 
artigem  Zeitvertreib  Spass  haben. 

Wie  die  Schulen  einzurichten  sind  ?  Man  frage  die 
Schulmanner.  Wie  die  Arbeit  einzurichten  ist  ?  Man  frage 
die  Arbeiter  und  Techniker.  Wie  die  Waaren-Bazare  ?  Man 
frage  die  Kaufleute.  Wer  sich  zu  Bewusstsein  bringt,  dass 
die  notwendigen  Funktionen  der  Gesellschaft  fortdauatij 
nur  statt  im  Privat- Interesse  im  Gemein  -  Interesse,  der 
kann  sich  fiir  sein  Fach  unschwer  eine  Vorstellung  machen. 
Die  alte  Gesellschaft  wird  ja  nicht  mit  einem  Ruck  vom 
Tisch  geworfen   und    zerbrochen,  und   die  neue  Gesellschaft 


"  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES/'  235 

wird  nicht  fix  und  fertig  und  aufgepulzt  auf  den  Tisch  ge- 
stellt  wie  ein  Weihnachtsbaum.  Beide  sind  ein  wachsender 
Organismus,  und  die  alte  Gesellschaft  wird  in  die  neue  mit 
hinubergenommen  —  nur  was  hinderlich  oder  unbrauchbar 
1st,  wird  zuruckgelassen  oder  gelegentlich  abgelegt.  Es  ist  kein 
jaher  Wechsel,  sondern  ein  allmahliches  Werden,  mit  bestan- 
digen  Compromissen  zwischen  Gegenwart  und  Zukunft — wie 
alle  grossen  wirtschaftlichen  und  politischen  Ausgestal- 
tungen  es  waren,  von  denen  wir  Kunde  haben.  Statt  Com- 
promiss  zwischen  Gegenwart  und  Zukunft,  sage  ich  wol 
besser :  zwischen  Gegenwart  und  Vergangenheit,  denn  die 
Gegenwart  von  heute  ist  dann  Vergangenheit,  und  die  Zukunft 
von  heute  Gegenwart. 

Werfe  man  mir  nicht  vor,  ich  habe  mehr  gezeigt  was  nicht 
sein  konne,  als  was  sein  werde,  —  mehr  was  zu  beseitigen,  als 
was  einzurichten  sei.  Der  Vorwurf  ist  kein  Vorwurf.  Jeder 
Fortschritt  der  Menschheit  —  mit  oder  ohne  Revolution  —  hat 
hauptsachlich  in  der  Entfernung  von  Hindernissen  bestanden, 
welche  der  organischen  Entwicklung  im  Wege  waren.  Bei. 
Reformen  und  Revolutionen  ist  das  Wegraumen  von  Hinder- 
nissen die  Hauptsache.  Fur  den  Rest  sorgt  die  lebendige  Kraft 
Das  Neue  wachst  organisch,  sobald  es  Luft  und  Licht  hat. 

Der  Zukunftsstaat  fallt  nicht  vom  Himmel ;  er  liegt  zum 
Gluck  auf  unsrer  schonen  Erde  ;  und  nicht  von  Engeln  und 
Teufeln  wird  er  bewohnt  werden,  sondern  von  den  Menschen 
des  Gegenwartstaats. 

Grosse  Veranderungen,  die  auch  ausserlich  auf  den  ersten 
Blick  hervortreten,  wird  es  allerdings  geben.  Verschwinden 
werden  die  Kasernen,  denn  wir  haben  keine  Soldaten  mehr ; 
und  verschwinden  werden  die  Zuchthauser,  denn  die  Gesell- 
schaft wird  sich  ohne  Verbrecher  behelfen.  Verschwinden 
werden  die  Justizpalaste,  denn  an  Prozessen  wird  Mangel 
sein.  Verschwinden  werden  —  rein  aus  Schonheitsruck- 
sichten  —  die  entsetzlichen  Bauungeheuer,  durch  die  man 
heute  den  Menschen  beweisen  will,  dass  ausserhalb  dieser 
Welt  der  Materie  eine  "  bessere  Welt "  iiber  dem  Sternenzelt  sei. 
Denkmaler  der  Kunst  wird  man  dafur  um  so  andachtsvoller 
verehren.  Verschwinden  werden  die  Bastillen  der  Arbeit. 
Verschwinden  werden  die  Locher,   nicht  gut  genug  fiir   das 


236  COSMOPOLIS. 

Vieh,  in  deneii  die  Mehrzahl  —  die  Statistik  ist  mir  Zeugin  ! 
—  der  Menschen,  und  gerade  sie,  vvelche  die  Gesellschaft 
ernahren  und  auf  ihren  Schultern  tragen,  heute  zu  wohnen 
gezwungen  sind.  Und  verschwinden  vverden  die  ungesun- 
den,  fieberverbreitenden  Hauser-Wiisteneien  und  Hauser- 
Si'impfe,  genannt  Grossstadte.  Der  Unterschied  zwischen 
Stadt  und  Land  wird  aufhoren,  und  Dank  der  vervoll- 
kommneten  Beforderungsmittel  (Eisenbahnen,  elektrische 
Bahnen,  und  mit  der  Zeit  auch  Luftschiffe,  —  die  Benutzung 
iiiiciitgeltlich,  wie  heute  die  der  Landstrassen),  werden  die 
Menschen  nicht  mehr  Sklaven  der  Entfernungen  sein,  und, 
ohne  sich  von  den  Kultur-Geniissen  zu  trennen,  in  der  freien 
Natur  leben  konnen. 

Erstehen  werden  dagegen  machtige  Prachtbauten  fiir  die 
Schulen  aller  Art  —  von  Kindergarten  an  bis  hinauf  zur 
Hochschule — ,  Schulen  mit  geraumigen  Schulgarten,  Turn- 
und  Spielplatzen.  Erstehen  werden  Tempel  der  Kunst  und 
der  Wissenschaft  :  Theater,  Konzerthallen,  BibHotheken,  — 
nicht  vereinzelt,  nein,  zerstreut  iiber  das  ganze  Land,  so  dass 
sie  alien  Gliedern  der  Gesellschaft  zuganglich  sind.  Erstehen 
werden  Palaste  der  Arbeit  mit  Raumen  der  Besprechung,  der 
Erfrischung,  der  Geistes-  und  Korperpflege.  Erstehen  werden 
Falaste,  in  denen  die  Volksvertreter  tagen,  und  andere,  in  denen 
das  Volk  sich  versammelt,  ura  zu  beraten.  Erstehen  werden 
riesige  Club-  und  Gasthauser  und  Bazare,  wie  William  Motris 
sie  geschildert.  Und  an  gewissen  Tagen  werden  die  Burge- 
rinnen  und  Burger  des  Zukunftsstaats  aus  alien  Teilen  des 
Gemeinwesens  zusammenstromen  wie  einst  die  Hellenen  zu 
den  Olympischen  Spieleii,     Und  — 

Doch  wohin  gerate  ich  ?  Schnell  zum  Schluss  1  Zu  Ende 
wiirde  ich  ja  doch  nicht  kommen,  sintemalen  der  Ausblick  ins 
Endlose  geht,  und  die  Uferlosigkeit  ist  auch  zu  anderen  Dingen 
als  Flottenplanen  nicht  gut. 

So  sei's  denn  genug. 

Die  Burgerinnen  und  Burger  des  Zukunftsstaats  haben  ja 
zwei  Fiisse  wie  wir,  und  je  zwei  Hande  und  einen  Kopf  — 
sie  werden  gesiinder  und  kluger  sehen  als  wir,  und  sie  werden 
sich  ohne  mich  einzurichten  und  zu  benehmen  wissen. 

Berlin,  Mittc  November.  W.  Liebkxecht, 


BRIEFE   AUS   ROM. 


a\  dkx  hkkrx  rkdactkt'k  dkr  cos.\fopous. 
Verehrter  Herr  ! 

Sie  haben  mir  erlaubt,  Ihnen  w^hrend  meines  diesmaligen 
Aufenthalts  in  Rom  zu  schreiben,  und  Sie  waren  damit 
einverstanden,  dass  ich  mir  vornahm,  die  unubersehbare 
Litteratur,  welche  sich  auf  die  Vergangenheit,  auf  die 
Altertumer  und  die  Kunstschatze  der  ewigen  Stadt  bezieht, 
nicht  zu  vermehren,  sondern  meine  Bemerkungen  vorzugs- 
weise  auf  das  moderne  Rom  zu  beschranken.  Trotz  des 
Zaubers,  mit  dem  die  Ruinen,  die  Landschaft,  die  Kirchen, 
die  Galerien  und  die  Museen  von  Rom  mich  auch  diesmal 
umfangen,  gedenke  ich  meinem  Vorsatz  treu  zu  bleiben,  um- 
somehr  als  die  Begeisterung  fur  Roms  Natur  und  Kunst  erst 
neulich  in  dem  Aufsatze  eines  Ihrer  englischen  Herren  Mit- 
arbeiter  zum  ansprechendsten  Ausdruck  gelangt  ist.  Sollte  ich 
dennoch  hier  und  da  die  Grenzen  iiberschreiten,  die  ich 
mir  gezogen  habe,  so  hoffe  ich  auf  Ihre  Nachsicht.  1st  das 
moderne  Rom  doch  so  eng  mit  dem  alten  verbunden,  dass 
man  von  dem  Einen  schwer  reden  kann,  ohne  das  Andere  zu 
beruhren. 

Ich  habe  Rom  zum  ersten  Mai  im  Jahre  1861  besucht, 
gehore  also  zu  der  taglich  kleiner  werdenden  Zahl  derer,  die 
das  Rom  der  Papste  noch  aus  eigner  Anschauung  kennen. 
Seitdem  die  Italiener  Rom  zur  Hauptstadt  ihres  neu  erstan- 
denen  Nationalstaats  gemacht  habcn,  bin  ich  mehrere  Male 
hier  gewesen,  u.  A.  im  Jahre  1885,  als  die  Arbeiten  zur  Er- 
neuerung  und  Erweiterung  der  Stadt  im  vollsten  Gauge 
waren,  und  im  Jahre  1891,  bald  nach  der  Bau-  und  Bank- 


238  COSMOPOLIS. 

krisis,   die   eine   wesentliche   Verlangsamung,   ja    einen    zeit- 
weiligen  Stillstand  dieser  Arbeiten  verursacht  hat. 

Nun  glaube  ich  von  der  Voraussetzung  ausgehen  zu  kdnnen, 
dass  der  Leserkreis  der  Cosmopolis  das  gute  Recht  der 
Italiener,  Rom  zur  Haupstadt  ihres  Staats  zu  machen,  mit  mir 
anerkennt.  Ich  werde  daher  auf  eine  Erorterung  dieser,  von 
ultramontaner  Seite  noch  heut  auf  das  Heftigste  bestrittenen 
Frage  nicht  eingehen,  zumal  sie  tatsiichlich  gelost  ist.  Die 
Italiener  sind  seit  1870  in  Rom,  und  Rom  ist  seit  fast  einem 
vollen  Vierteljahrhundert  ihre  Landeshauptstadt.  Die  Be- 
fiirchtungen,  dass  der  Konig  von  Italien  und  der  Papst  nicht 
nebeneinander  in  Rom  bestehen  konnten,  Befiirchtungen,  die 
vor  dreissig  Jahren  selbst  Freunde  des  jungen  Konigreichs 
veranlassten,  vor  der  Verlegung  des  Regirungssitzes  nach 
Rom  dringend  zu  warnen,  sind  durch  die  Tatsache  widerlegt, 
dass  Konig  und  Papst,  Vatican  und  Quirinal  seit  1873  in  Rom 
nebeneinander  leben. 

Freilich,  das  war  von  vornherein  klar,  dass  Rom  dadurch 
wesentlich  verandert  werden  wurde.  In  dem  Zustande,  in 
welchem  die  ewige  Stadt  sich  gegen  das  Ende  der  Papstherr- 
schaft  befand,  war  sie  so  wenig  als  irgend  mdglich  geeignet, 
Hauptstadt  eines  modernen  Grossstaats  zu  werden.  Das 
theokratische  Regiment,  seit  mehr  als  drei  Jahrhunderten  — 
mit  einer  kurzen  Unterbrechung  durch  die  napoleonische  Aera 
— im  unbestrittenen  und  unbeschrankten  Besitz  der  welt- 
lichen  Herrschaft,  hatte  in  Rom  allmahlich  jede  Unterneh- 
mungslust  ausgerottet  und  einen  Schlendrian  grossgezogen, 
von  dem  man  sich  heutzutage  kaum  eine  zutreffende  Vorstellung 
machen  kann.  Kirchen,  Kloster,  fromme  Stiftungen,  die 
geistlichen  Orden  —  kurz  die  Klerisei  teilte  sich  mit  dem 
meist  aus  pilpstlichen  Nepotenfamilien  hervorgegangenen  Adel 
in  den  bei  weitem  grossten  Teil  des  Grundbesitzes.  Ein  auf 
selbstandigem  Erwerb  begriindetes  Biirgertum  gab  es  kaum  ; 
ausser  vom  Klerus  lebtedie  Bevolkerung  Roms,  soweit  sie  nicht 
zuihm  gehorte,  von  den  Fremden  und  den  kleinen  Industrien, 
die  der  Fremdenverkehr  mit  sich  brachte.  Und  wahrend  es 
ausserhalb  des  alten  Mauerkreises  immer  oder  und  einsamer 
geworden,  die  grandiose  Wustenei  der  romischen  Campagna 
immer  qnmittelbarer  an  die  Stadt  herangeriickt  war,  hatte  sich 


BRIEFE  AUS   ROM.  239 

auch  innerhalb  der  Mauern  der  bewohnte  Teil  der  Stadt  seit 
Jahrhunderten  auf  ein  kleines  Areal  eingeschrankt.  Von  den 
historischen  sieben  Hugeln  waren  nur  der  capitolinische  und 
der  Quirinal  bewohnt,  im  Uebrigen  drangten  sich,  mit  wenigen 
Ausnahmen,  die  engen  und  krummen  Gassen  •  und  Gasschen 
des  papstlichen  Roms  in  der  ungesunden  Niederungzusammen, 
die  der  Raum  zwischen  den  genannten  Hugeln  und  dem 
Bette  des  Tiber  einnimmt.  Modernere  und  breitere  Strassen- 
zuge  waren  nur  die  wenigen,  welche  aus  dieser  Niederung  zu 
den  Abhangen  des  Pincio,  des  alten  Gartenberges,  aufstiegen. 

Es  war  die  erste  und  dringendste  Aufgabe  der  Italiener,  in 
Rom  fur  den   Regirungssitz  und  den  mit  ihm   verbundenen 
vielgestaltigen  Apparat  eines  modernen  Grossstaats  Raum  zu 
schaffen.     Daran  schlossen  sich  weitere,  nicht  weniger  umfas- 
sende.       Auch   fur  die   Romer    gait    es   Raum   zu  schaffen 
in  Rom.     Denn  wahrend  Rom  fur  die  Fremden  in  dem  sog 
Fremdenquartier  nordlich  des  Corso  und  um  den  Spanischen 
Platz    herum    ausreichende    und    nicht    teuere   Wohnungen 
darbot,   mussten   sich    die    Einheimischen,   soweit  sie   nicht 
zur  herschenden   Priesterschaft  oder  zur  Nobilitat  gehorten, 
zum   allergrossten   Teil   mit    Behausungen    behelfen,   die   in 
Hinsicht   auf   Licht,    Luft  und    sonstige  Anforderungen   der 
Hygiene  geradezu  Alles  zu  wiinschen  iibrig  liessen.     Es  gait, 
Rom,  das  seit  den  Zeiten  seiner  Grundung  immer  eine  Fie- 
berherberge  gewesen  ist — selbst  unter  Augustus  klagt  Horaz 
liber  die  mala  febrium  cohors,  die  in  Rom  herrsche— ,  zu  einer 
gesunden,  zu  jeder  Jahreszeit  bewohnbaren  Stadt  zu  machen. 
Es  gait  ferner,  alle  die  Einrichtungen  in  Rom  zu  schaffen  oder 
von  Grund  aus  zu  verbessern,  ohne  die  das  Leben  in  einer 
Grossstadt    uns  unertraglich   diinkt  :    moderne   Verkehrsein- 
richtungen,  an  denen  es  beinahe  ganzlich  fehlte,  Verbindungen 
mit  der  Aussenwelt,  von  der  die  Stadt  fast  vollig  abgeschlossen 
war,    Strassenreinigung    und    Beleuchtung,    eine    energische 
Sicherheits-    und     Baupolizei,    geregelte    Zufuhren,    Markte, 
Schlachthauser   und   was  sonst   noch    alles    zum   Leben   er- 
forderlich,  ja   unentbehrlich   ist.  —  Gleichzeitig   mit  der  Ver- 
bessening    der    materiellen    Existenz    war    aber    auch     die 
Grundlage  fiir  bessere  geistige  Zustande  zu  legen.     Fur  den 
Unterricht   und   die   Volkserziehung,   Jahrhunderte   hindurch 


240  COSMOPOLIS. 

vollig  vernachlassigt,  vvaren  von  Grund  auf  neue  Einrichtungen 
Iherzustellen.  Dem  von  der  Klerisei  grossgezogenen  Bettel- 
wesen,  der  Wurzel  der  tiefsten  moralischen  und  sozialen 
Schaden,  an  denen  die  Bevolkerung  des  papstlichen  Roms 
krankte,  war  eine  geregelte  Armenpflege  entgegenzusetzen  ; 
Quellen  selbstiindigen  biirgerlichen  Erwerbs  waren  zu  er- 
schliessen,  damit  in  der  verkummerten  Biirgerschaft  neuer 
Mut,  eigne  Initiative  und  Gewerbefleiss,  die  Triebkrafte  eines 
gesunden  Gemeinwesens,  sich  regen  konnten.  Aus  der  volligen 
Isolirung,  in  der  diese  Bevolkerung  alien  geistigen  und  politi- 
schen  Interessen  gegeni'iber  gehalten  worden  war,  musste  sic 
in  die  Selbstverantwortlichkeit  und  in  den  Streit  freier  Staats- 
burger  hineingehoben,  mit  dem  Gefiihl  der  Zusammenge- 
horigkeit  und  der  Liebe  fur  das  Land  erfiillt  werden,  dessen 
Hauptstadt  ihr  Rom  geworden  war.  Kurz,  es  gait,  zu  dem 
neuen  Rom  auch  neue  Romer  zu  schaffen. — Aber  auch  damit 
nicht  genug,  denn  zu  dem  neuen  Rom  war  endlich  eine  neue 
Umgebung  unerlasslich.  Eine  Metropole,  die  nach  alien 
Richtungen  bin  auf  zwanzig  Kilometer  und  mehr  im  Umkreis 
von  einer  Wiiste  umgeben  ist,  ist  auf  die  Dauer  unmoglich. 
Dazu  ist  die  Campagna,  so  unendlich  malerisch  sie  sowol  in 
der  Friihlingsblutenpracht  wie  in  dem  melancholischen  Gold- 
braun  des  Sommers,  umgeben  von  dem  schimmernden  Kranz 
der  Albaner-  und  der  Sabinerberge,  sich  dem  Auge  darstellt, 
zu  alien  Jahreszeiten  durch  die  Fieber,  die  sie  erzeugt,  eine 
so  furchtbare  Plage  fiir  Rom,  dass  schon  aus  diesem  Grunde 
vor  der  Riesenarbeit  ihrer  Sanirung  nicht  zuriickgeschreckt 
werden  durfte. 

Aufgaben  von  solcher  Wucht  konnen  naturlich  in  einem 
Vierteljahrhundert  nicht  annahernd  vollstandig  gelost  werden. 
Nach  Ablauf  eines  so  kurzen  Zeitraumes  kann  gerechterweise 
nur  gefragt  werden,  ob  sie  mit  richtigem  Verstandnis  in  Angriff 
genommen  und  wie  weit  sie  gefordert  worden  sind.  Mit 
richtigem  Verstandnis  heisst  in  diesem  Falle  nicht  bloss  mit 
technischem  Geschick,  sondern  mit  gebiirender  Rucksicht 
auf  die  Stellung,  welche  Rom  vermoge  seiner  historischeii 
und  kiinstlerischen  Denkmaler  in  der  ganzen  civilisirten  Welt 
cinnimmt. 

Wahrend  nun  den  Itali^nern  nach  d^r  landlaufigen  Vorstel- 


BRIEFE   AUS   ROM.  24I 

•  lung,  die  man  sich  von  ihnen  macht,  regelmassig  ihr  ihlce  fm 
nieniCy  Mangel  an  Energie  und  Tatkraft  vorgeworfen  zu  wer- 
den  pflegt,  hat  ihr  Verfahren  bei  der  Erneuerung  Roms  ihnen 
umgekehrt  von  vielen  Seiten   die   heftigsten  Vorwurfe  wegeii 
zu  riicksichtslosen  und  zu  raschen  Vorgehens  zugezogen.     Der 
Unglaube,  mit  dem  ein  grosser  Teil    des  Auslandes  auf  das 
Werk  hinblickte,  welches  in  Rom  zu  bewaltigen  war,  wich,  als 
es  ernstlich  in  die  Hand  genommen  wurde,  einem  Sturm  der 
Entriistung,  der  noch  jetzt  in  der  Presse  und  der  Litteratur  der 
verschiedensten  Nationen  erregte  Wellen  schlagt.     Wer  den 
Anklagen  geglaubt  hiltte,  die  um  die  Mitte  der  achtziger  Jahre 
von   franzosischen,   englischen    und    deutschen     Historikern, 
Archaologen  und   Kunstgelehrten  erhoben  wurden,  der  hatte 
annehmen  miissen,  dass  es  sich  um  nichts  mehr  und  nichts 
weniger  als  um  die  Zerstorung  Roms  handeite.     Was  diesen 
Anklagen  besonderes  Gewicht  verlieh  und  ihnen  noch  bis  auf 
den  heutigen  Tag  einen  starken  Einfluss  auf  das  interpationale 
Urteil  verschafft,  war  der   Umstand,  dass  sie  zu  einem  nicht 
geringen  Teil  von  Mannern  ausgingen,   die  Rom  griindlich 
kannten  und  denen  man  eine  prinzipielle  Abneigung  gegen  die 
politische    Neugestaltung    Italiens   nicht   zutraute.      Um   nur 
Einen  von  ihnen,  und  Einen,  der  leider  nicht  mehr  unter  uns 
weilt,  zu  nennen,  so  wird  der  entriistete  Protest,  den  Ferdinand 
Gri'gorovius,  der  Geschichtsschreiber  der  Stadt  Rom  im  Mittel- 
alter,  erhob,  noch  vielen  meiner  geehrten  Leser  in  lebhafter 
Erinnerung  sein.   Der  Mann,  der  eine  entsagungsvolle  Lebens- 
arbeit  daran  gesetzt  hatte,  das  Bild  der  ewigen  Stadt  vvahrend 
cines  Jahrtausends  ihrer  wechselvollen  Geschicke  zu  en t wer  fen 
dem  wegen  dieses  seines  monumentaien   Werks  die  von  ihm 
hochgewurdigte   Ehre    des    romischen  Biirgerrechts  zu  Teil 
geworden  war,  warf  in  einem  offenen   Brief  mit  flammenden 
Schmerzensvvorten  dem  Stadtrat  von  Rom  Mangel  an  Pietat 
gegen  die  Vergangenheit  Roms  vor  ! 

Mit  aller  Ehrfurcht  und  Liebe  vor  den  Manen  von  Gregoro- 
vius,  den  auf  seinem  hochgelegenen  Studirzimmer  an  der 
Ecke  der  Via  Gregoriana  wiederholt  besucht  zu  haben  eine 
meiner  altesten  und  liebsten  Rom-Erinnerungen  ist,  vverde  icli 
den  Nachweis  unternehmen,  dass,  was  man  audi  den  Ur- 
hebern  der  Erneuerung  Roms  vorzuwerfen  haben  mag — und 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXV.  IG 


242  COSMCPOLIS. 

es  ist  nicht  vvenig — ,  dicsc  Anklage  ungerechtfertigt  ist.  Zuvor 
aber  gestatte  ich  mir,  darauf  aufmerksam  zu  machen,  dass 
Gregorovius  nicht  der  Erste  gewesen  ist,  der  sie  erhoben  hat, 
dass  sie  vielmehr  wahrend  des  langen  Bestehens  von  Rom 
schon  fruher  und  ofter  erhoben  worden  ist,  ja  dass  sie  mit 
einergewissen  Regelmassigkeit  wiederzukehren  pflegt. 

Wahrend  der  kurzen  Zeit,  in  der  Rom  dem  napoleonischen 
Weltreich  einverleibt  gewesen  ist  (1809-1814),  ist  mit  Energie 
versiicht  worden,  die  Stadt  der  Verwahrlosung  zu  entreissen, 
der  sie  unter  der  Papstherrschaft  verfallen  war.  Dem  tat- 
kraftigen  und  umsichtigen  Vorgehen  des  von  tiichtigen 
Architekten  unterstiitzten  franzosischen  Prafekten  verdankt 
Rom  seinen  schonsten,  bis  auf  die  neueste  Zeit  auch  seinen 
einzigen  offentlichen  Spazirgang,  die  Anlagen  auf  dem  Monte 
Pincio  nebst  dem  monumentalen  Zugang  von  der  Piazza  del 
Popolo.  Nicht  minder  sind  ihm  die  Freilegung  der  bis  dahin 
wie  in  oinem  tiefen  Brunnen  versteckten  Trajanssaule,  die 
Ausgrabung  der  bis  an  das  Gebalk  verschiitteten  herrHchen 
Saulen  des  Vespasianstempels,  die  Wiederherstellung  des 
reizenden  kieinen  Rundtempels  bei  der  Bocca  della  Verita,  den 
man  damals  den  Vestatempel  zu  nennen  gewohnt  war,  und  eine 
Reihe  von  anderen  Arbeiten  zur  Erhaltung  und  Restaurirung 
anderer  wichtiger  Monumente  des  Altertums  zuzuschreiben.* 
Jetzt  ist  man  'gewohnt,  diese  Dinge  als  ganz  untrennbar  von 
Rom  zu  betrachten  ;  damals  wurden  von  den  verschiedensten 
Seiten  iiber  das  riicksichtslose  Vorgehen  der  Franzosen  laute 
Klagen  erhoben.  Es  war  einer  der  grossten  Kenner  Roms, 
kein  Geringerer  ^IsNiebuhr,  der  diese  Jeremiaden  als  "dummes 
Gewasch  unwissender  Kiinstler  "  scharf  abwies. 

Als  der  schmerzlichste  Verlust,  den  Rom  seit  1870  erlitten 
hat,  wird  allgemein  der  Untergang  der  meisten  jener  herrlichen 
Villen  empfunden,  die  innerhalb  des  Mauerkreises  die  Zauber- 
welt  ihrer  Garten  dem  Besucher  mit  furstlicher  Liberalitat  zur 
Verfiigung  stellten.  Wer  in  den  mit  edlen  Kunstwerken  des 
Altertums  geschmuckten  Baumgangen  der  Villa  Ludovisi,  im 
Schatten   der    Cypressen    der   Villa   Massimo   gewandelt    ist, 

♦  Der  damalige  Pr^ect,  Graf  Camille  de  Tliournon,  hat  einen  umfassendcn, 
sehr  inlercssanten  Bcricht  iiber  seine  romische  Amtstsltigkeit  veroffenUicht,  der 
in  7Avei  Biinden  und  einem  Atlas  mit  Kartcn  und  Zeichnungen  in  2.  Auflage  vor- 
liegt :  Etudes  statistiques  sur  Rome,  Paris,  1855. 


BRIEFE   AUS   ROM.  243 

wurdigt  und  ehrt  den  Schmerz,  den  die  Niederlegung  dieser 
und  anderer  wunderbarer  Garten  den  Freunden  Roms  verur- 
sacht  hat.  Aber  in  der  Zeit,  in  welcher  diese  Villen  und  die 
meisten  der  Palaste  geschaffen  wurden,  die  noch  jetzt  einen 
bedeutenden  Teil  der  Stadt  bedecken,  ist  ihre  Errichtung  von 
einem  der  namhaftesten  Lyriker  des  17.  Jahrhunderts  in  tief 
empfundenen  klangvollen  Versen  als  Zerstorung  des  alten  ein- 
fachen  Roms,  als  Austreibung  der  fleissigen  alten  Landbevol- 
kerung,  und  als  Impietat  gegen  die  Toten  beklagt  worden. 
In  den  Oden  von  Fulvio  Testi  heisst  es  : 

Poco  spazio  di  terra 
Lasciano  omai  rambiziose  moli 
A  le  rustiche  marre,  ai  curvi  aratri, 
Quasi  chc  niuover  guerra 
Del  del  si  voglia  agli  stellanti  poli  ; 

E  si  locan  sotterra 
Fin  su  le  soglie  de  le  morte  genti 
De  le  macchinc  eccelse  i  fondamcnti.  .  .  . 

Bessere  Kenner  der  romischen  Stadtgeschichte  und  ihrer 
riesigen  Litteratur  werden  sicherlich  in  der  Lage  sein,  die 
Reihe  dieser  Beispiele  zu  verlangern.  Ich  will  mich  damit 
begniigen,  sie  mit  einem  Namen  zu  schliessen,  den  man  eher 
zu  den  Enkomiasten  der  Gegen  wart  als  zu  den  Verherrlichern 
der  Vergangenheit  zu  zahlen  gewohnt  ist.  Horaz,  der  als 
Gunstling  Macens  und  als  Hofpoet  von  Augustus  die  Um- 
wandlung  des  backsteinernen  Roms  in  die  Marmorstadt  der 
Casaren  mit  erlebte,  der  einen  Teil  der  machtigen  Bauwerke 
entstehen  sah,  die  in  ihren  Ueberresten,  wie  die  Mauern  des 
Augustusforums  und  die  vor  ihm  stehenden  edlen  Saulen  des 
Marstempels,  noch  heut  zu  den  Hauptdenkmalern  des  antiken 
Roms  gehoren,  hat  sich's  nicht  versagt,  in  der  Ode  an  Postumus 
(ii.,  15)  dem  Untergang  des  alten,  des  republikanischen 
einfachen  Roms  einen  elegischen  Nachruf  zu  widmen  : 

Jam  pauca  aratro  jugera  regiae 
Moles  relinquent, 

klagt  er,  und  er  preist  die  Zeiten  des  Romulus  und  des  intonsus 
Cato,  wo 

nulla  decempedis 
Metata  privatis  opacani 
Porticos  excipiebat  Arctoii, 
Nee  fortuitum  sperncre  ccspiteni 
Leges  sinebant.    .    .    • 


244  COSMOPOLIS. 

Also,  man  hat  zu  alien  Zeiten  uber  den  Untergang  Roms 
geklagt,  und  insofern  nicht  ohne  Grund,  als  Rom  zu  alien 
Zeiten  in  einer  immerwahrenden  Umgestaltung  begrififen 
gewesen  ist.  Sieht  man  das  hier  nicht  auf  Schritt  und  Tritt 
vor  Augen  ?  Hat  nicht  die  Republik  das  Rom  dcr  Konige 
ebenso  umgemodelt  und  erweitert,  wie  es  dem  Rom  der  Repu- 
blik unter  den  Kaisern  ergangen  ist  ?  Und  wie  sind  nun  gar 
die  Papste  mit  der  Roma  antica  umgesprungen !  Noch  jetzt 
zeigt  man  sich  die  Kirchen  und  Palaste,  die  aus  den  Quadern 
des  Coliseo  errichtet  worden  sind.  Xoch  heute  prunkt 
inmitten  der  Peterskirche  das  bronzene  Tabernakel,  zu 
welchem  Urban  VIII.  das  Erz  vom  ehrwiirdigsten  und 
schonsten  aller  romischen  Bauwerke,  vom  Pantheon,  herun- 
ternehmen  Hess.  Sixtus  V.  war  es,  der  das  vorerwahnte 
Augustusforum   zuschiitten   liess,    um    eine    Strasse    daruber 


hinwegzufuhren.      Nicht   besser    sind    die    Papste    mit    den . 

altchristlichen  Denkmalern  umgegangen.     Wenn  eine  Klag<        i 
iiber  Mangel  an  Pietat  begriindet  ist,  so  ist  es  die  uber  di^==^ 
Verhunzung  der  alten  edien  Basiliken  aus  dem  4.,  5.,  6.  und  7 
Jahrhundert  durch  die  elenden    Fagaden,  die  man  ihnen  ii~      1 
der  Barock-  und  Zopfzeit  angeklebt  hat.     Und  wenn's  noch  bt      "i 
den  Fayaden  geblieben  ware.       Aber  zahllose  alte  Kircher     -:i 
sind  auch  im  Innern  derartig  modernisirt  worden,  dass  mar     -=i 
Muhe  hat,  sich  die  urspriingliche  Bauanlage  zu  vergegenwai 
tigen.      Statt   vieler    Beispiele   nur   eins :      Santa    Croce    ii 
Gerusalemme,  eine  der  altesten  Basiliken  in  Rom,  die  von  de==r 
Mutter  Kaiser  Constantins  errichtet  sein  soil  und  in  der  scho^^^ 
im  Anfang  des  5.  Jahrhunderts  ein  allgemeines  Kirchenconc-::^^' 
abgehalten  wurde,  hat  unter  Benedict  XIV.  im  vorigen  Jahi 
hundert  nicht  bloss  die  abscheuliche  Fagade  erhalten,  die  de: 
alten  Bau    verunzirt,  sondern    ist    auch  im   Innern    derarti 
restaurirt  worden,  dass  man  die  Spuren  ihrer  fruheren  Gesta  J^ 
formlich  suchen  muss. 

In  Summa  :  zu  jeder  Zeit  haben  auch  in  Rom  die  Lebende  ^^ 
sich  das  Recht  beigelegt,  die  Stadt  und  ihre  Bauwerke  nac*' 
ihrem  eignen  Bedarf  und  Geschmack  umzugestalten.      Da^^ 
man   gerade  dem  jetzigen    Geschlecht  dies    Recht  abspricht; 
verstosst  ebenso  gegen  den  geschichtlichen  Verlauf  wie  gegen 
die  Natur  der  Dinge. 


BRIEFE   AUS    ROM.  245 

Was  nun  Konis  Monumente  anbetrifit,  so  bezweiHe  ich,  dass 
rgend  eine  Zeit  schonender  und  pietatvoller  gegen  sie  ge- 
vesen  ist  als  die  so  arg  verlasterte  Gegenwart.  Es  ware  eine 
lankbare  Aufgabe,  an  der  Hand  eines  guten  Stadtplanes 
lachzuweisen,  welch  ungemein  grosse  Bereicherung  unsere 
ienntnis  von  der  Aniage,  der  Ausdehnung,  dem  Bau  und 
ien  Kunstdenkmaiern  des  antiken  Roms  der  Gegenwart  und 
lamentlich  ihrer  Bautatigkeit  zu  verdanken  hat.  Ich  spreche 
licht  von  der  Freilegung  des  romischen  Forums,  das  ich  nocli 
[861  ahnlich  so  gesehen  habe,  wie  es  die  bekannten 
r^iranesischen  Stiche  aus  dem  vorigen  Jahrhundert  darstellen, 
nit  Baum-Alieen  in  gieicher  Hohe  der  benachbarten  Strassen- 
:uge  und  zum  Teil  noch  als  Viehweide  benutzt  ;  ebensowenig 
;on  den  Ausgrabungen  auf  dem  Palatin,  durch  welche  die 
imfassendsten  Einblicke  in  die  Baugeschichte  der  Kaiserzeil 
:rschlossen  worden  sind.  Aber  wer  vermochte  die  Zahl  und 
Ien  Wert  der  antiken  Bildwerke  zu  schatzen,  welche  bei  der 
Jebauung  des  Esquilins,  bei  der  Durchfiihrung  der  grossen 
Jtrassenanlagen  des  heutigen  Roms,  bei  der  Neuregelung  des 
riberlaufs  aus  mehr  als  tausendjiihriger  Verborgenheit  wieder 
.ns  Tageslicht  gebracht  worden  sind  ?  Ganze  Museen  sind 
leu  geschaffen  worden,  um  diese  Funde — unter  ihnen  Bronzen 
ind  Marmorbildsaulen  allerersten  Ranges — aufzunehmen.  Wer 
lie  weiten  Sale  des  Museo  Nazionale  in  den  Diokletianthermen 
lurchwandert,  moge  nicht  vergessen,  dass  die  prachtvollc 
»ammlung,  die  dort  Unterkunft  gefunden  hat  und  die  sich  von 
ahr  zu  Jahr  vermehrt,  fast  ausschliesslich  von  Funden  her- 
iihrt,  die  bei  Bauausfiihrungen  des  italienischen  Staats  inner- 
lalb  der  Stadt  Rom  gemacht  worden  sind.  Als  ich  diese 
^ume  im  Jahr  1861  sah,  dienten  sie  franzosischen  Monchen 
on  der  strengsten  Observanz  der  Karthiiuser  als  Kloster  ; 
ast  all  die  Kunstwerke,  die  jetzt  dort  aufgestellt  sind,  lagen  im 
"iberbett  und  unter  den  Vignen  am  Esquilin  und  Viminal 
>egraben. 

Im  Conservatoren-Palast  auf  dem  Capitol  kann  man,  dank 
en  Inschriften,  die  auf  den  im  Kuppelsaal  des  Obergeschosses 
ufgestellten  Bildwerken  angebracht  sind,  einen  Teil  dieser 
•*undgeschichte  nach  Tagen  und  Orten  verfolgen.  Man  halt 
s,  wenn   man  das  Bikinis  des   Kaisers  Commodus  in  frisch 


246  COSMOPOLIS. 

glanzender  Politur  des  Marmors,  ohne  eine  auch  nur  oberflach- 
liche  Beschadigung,  vor  sich  sieht,  kaum  fiir  glaublich,  dass 
diese  Statue  bis  zum  23.  Dezember  1874  in  den  Schutthaufen 
des  Esquilins  unter  einem  der  neuangelegten  Strassenzuge 
geschlafen  hat.  In  zwei  andern  Zimmern  dieses  Museums sind 
Graberfunde  aus  den  bis  in  die  Anfange  von  Rom  zuruck- 
reichenden  Nekropolen  vereinigt,  welche  bei  den  Strassenan- 
lagen  am  Abhange  des  Quirinals  und  des  Esquilins  entdeckt 
worden  sind  ;  sie  stammen  aus  Zeiten  her,  von  denen  man 
bisher  keinerlei  Denkmaler  besass  und  enthalten  eine  wich- 
tige  Erweiterung  unserer  Kenntnisse  der  friihesten  romischen 
Vorwelt. 

Angesichts  der  kolossalen  Bereicherung,  welche  der  gesamte 
archaologische  Apparat  durch  die  Erneuerung  von  Rom  er- 
fahren  hat,  wurde  es  zu  verschmerzen  sein,  wenn  bei  diesem 
Aniass  der  eine  oder  der  andere  Ueberrest  des  Altertums 
beseitigt  worden  ware.  AUein  ich  habe  bisher  nach  solchen 
Akten  eines  immerhin  entschuldbaren  Vandalismus  vergeblich 
gefragt.  Was  ich  vor  Augen  sehe,  ist  im  Gegenteil  eine  aus- 
serordentliche  Pietat  fiir  AUes,  was  aus  dem  Altertum  stammt. 
Jedes  Restchen  des  Mauerzuges  der  Konigszeit,  der  beilaufig 
grosstenteils  erst  durch  die  Stadterweiterung  aufgedeckt  worden 
ist,  wird  mit  einer  Ehrfurcht  erhalten,  als  ob  es  sich  um  ein 
Nationalheiligtum  handelte.  Die  unscheinbarsten  Ruinen, 
die  ich  wahrend  der  Papstherrschaft  im  Zustande  der  argsten 
Verwahrlosung  gesehen  habe,  sind  jetzt  eingehegt,  gesaubert 
und  bewacht  in  einem  Maasse,  das  ihrer  asthetisch-malerischen 
Wirkung  zuweilen,  wie  bei  dem  eingestiirzten  Rundbau  der 
Minerva  Medica,  Eintrag  tut,  aber  keineswegs  den  Vorwurf 
der  Impietat  verdient.  Die  fast  formlosen  Trummer  eines 
Wasserbehalters,  die  man  wegen  der  dort  aufgefundenen 
Marmortrophaen,  welche  jetzt  auf  der  Balustrade  am  Capitol 
stehen,  die  Trophaen  des  Marius  zu  nennen  gewohnt  ist,  sind 
in  die  Anlagen  des  grossen  neuen  Schmuckplatzes  hinter 
Santa  Maria  Maggiore,  der  Piazza  Vittorio  Emanuele,  mit 
Geschmack  und  sichtlicher  Liebe  hineingezogen  worden  und 
bieten  jetzt,  von  Palmen  und  Trauerweiden  umgeben  und  von 
frischem  Griin  umsponnen,  einen  Anblick  dar,  der  vor  jedem 
Kiinstlerauge  bestehen  kann.     Nicht  weit  davon  befindet  sich 


BRIEKE   AUS   ROM.  247 

ein  Beispiel  von  dem,  was  ich,  auf  die  Gefahr  hin  mir  den 
Zorn  der  Herren  Archaologen  zuzuziehen,  eine  zu  vveit  getrie- 
bene  Pietat  nenne.  Die  Via  Leopardi,  eine  ansehnliche  Strasse, 
welche  den  Victor  Emanuel-Platz  im  Westen  begrenzt  und 
nach  dem  Abhang  des  Esquilins  bis  in  die  Gegend  des  Colos- 
seums  fuhrt,  verengt  sich  vor  ihrer  Kreuzung  mit  einer  andern 
grosseren  Verkehrsader,  der  Via  Merulana,  plotzlich  ganz 
erheblich,  um  einem  niedrigen  Mauertrumm  auszuweichen, 
der  mitten  in  dieser  Strassenkreuzung  seinen  Platz  behalten 
hat.  Und  dabei  ist  dieser  Triimni;  dem  man,  Gott  vveiss  mit 
welchem  Recht,  die  stolze  Bezeichnung  des  Auditoriums  des 
Maecenas  beilegt — der  aber  hochstens  der  Rest  eines  alten 
Gewachshauses  sein  wird, — bei  der  Neuanlegung  dieser  Stras- 
sen  uberhaupt  erst  aufgefunden  worden  ! 

Ich  finde  auch  nicht,  dass  die  Erneuerer  von  Rom  mit  den 
inittelalterlichen  Monumenten  schonungsloser  verfahren  waren. 
Auch  hiervon  hat  man  mir  auf  eindringliches  Befragen  nichts 
irgendwie  Namhaftes  nennen  konnen,  das  dem  **  Moloch  des 
neuen  Stadtplans/'  wie  man  zu  sagen  liebt,  zum  Opfer  gefallen 
ware.  Kein  einziger  der  alten  Streittiirme,  die  als  stumme 
Zeugen  der  fehdereichen  Baronalzeit  Roms  in  alien  Stadtteilen 
emporragen  und  die  einen  so  charaktervollen  Zug  in  der 
Physiognomic  der  ewigen  Stadt  bilden,  ist  von  seiner  Stelle 
gewichen.  Trotzig  erhebt  sich  mitten  in  der  Via  Nazionale  der 
Tiirm  der  Colonna  ;  nicht  minder  trotzig  schaut  der  Stumpf 
des  schon  unter  den  Piipsten  verstiimmelten  Tor  de'  Conti  an 
der  Ecke  der  neuen  Via  Cavour  auf  das  moderne  Treiben 
dieser  Hauptverkehrsader,  auf  die  vorbeisausenden  Wagen  der 
elektrischen  Strassenbahn  hin.  Weder  bei  der  Anlegung  die- 
ser, noch  anderer  neugeschaffener  Strassen,  die  mitten  durch 
den  Strassenknauel  des  papstlichen  Roms  hindurch  breite 
Verkehrsbahnen  geschaffen  haben,  hat  irgend  einer  von  den 
zahlreichen  Adeispalasten,  mit  denen  die  Baulust  der  papst- 
lichen Nepotenfamilien  Rom  wahrend  des  15.,  16.  und  17. 
Jahrhunderts  bedeckt  hat,  von  seiner  Stelle  weichen  miissen. 
Man  kdnnte  vielmehr  behaupten,  dass  manche  dieser  Palaste 
jetzt  besser  zu  sehen  sind  als  fruher,  wo  sie  in  dem  engen 
Gassengewirr  fast  versteckt  waren.  Die  herrliche  Fagade  der 
Cancelleria,  wol   des   schonsten  Renaissanccbaus   in    Rom,  ist 


J4^  cosMorotJs. 

fruher  nicht  so  wirkun^svoil  sichtbar  gewesen,  wic  sic  es  durch 
den  an  ihr  vorbeigefuhrten  Corso  Vittorio  Emanuele  jetzt 
geworden  ist. —  Man  hat  mir  auch  keine  Kirche  genannt,  die 
bei  der  Stadterweiterung  zu  Grunde  gegangen  vviire.  Sollte  es 
dennoch  geschehen  sein, —  und  ich  halte  es  bei  der  ganz 
ausserordentlich  grossen  Zahl  von  Kirchen,  die  auf  Schritt  und 
Tritt  in  Rom  allenthalben  vorhanden  sind,  fiir  fast  undenkbar, 
dass  nicht  die  cine  oder  die  andere  hiitte  beseitigt  werden 
niussen — ,  so  ist  dafur  sicherlich  inchr  als  ausreichender  Ersatz 
geschaffen  worden  durch  die  nicht  geringc  Zahl  ncuer 
Kirchenbauten,  die  ich  zu  meinem  P>staunen  in  den  verschie- 
densten  Stadtteilen  antreffe.  Und  zwar  nicht  etwa  nur  solche 
neue  Kirchen,  wie  sie  im  Rom  der  Papste  undenkbar  waren, 
Gotteshiiuser  der  Waidenser,  Jer  verschiedensten  protestan- 
tischen  Gemeinden,  der  freien  italienischen  Kirche  u.s.w., 
sondern  auch  kleine  und  grossekatholische  Kirchen.  Weithin 
sichtbar,  ein  neuer  Zug  in  dem  Panorama  Roms,  das  man 
vom  Belvedere  der  Kaiserpalaste  auf  dem  Palatin  oder  von  der 
Terrasse  des  S.  Pietro  in  Montorio  so  gern  (iberschaut,  ragt 
neben  den  schonen  alten  Kirchen  auf  der  Hohe  des  Aventins 
jetzt  ein  anspruchsvoller  funkelnagelneuer  Gebaudecomplex 
auf,  an  Turm  und  Kuppel  als  Kirche  erkennbar.  Es  ist 
S.  Anselmo,  die  grosse  neue  Benedictinerkirche,  in  deren 
Convent  eine  Erziehungsanstalt  fur  zweihundert  junge  Kleriker 
aller  Nationen  errichtet  worden  ist. — 

Die  lautesten  Klagen  iiber  die  Erneuerung  Roms  hort  man 
nicht  von  denen,  die  in  Rom  heimisch  sind  oder  durch 
Jahrzehnte  langen  Aufenthalt  dort  heimisch  geworden  sind, 
sondern  von  Leuten,  deren  Kenntnis  von  Rom  auf  Eindriicken 
mchr  oder  minder  vori'ibcrgehender  Hesuche  beruht.  Miinner, 
(lie  scit  langer  Zeit  in  Rom  leben,  die  noch  das  Rom  der 
Papste  gekannt,  haben  mich  nicht  mit  Jeremiaden,  sondern 
mit  Worten  der  Liebe  und  der  Bewunderung  empfangen,  die 
sie  fi'ir  diese  einzige  Stadt  auch  in  ihrer  jetzigen  Gestalt 
empfinden.  Diese  Manner,  die  alle  Unbequemlichkeiten  der 
Umgestaltung  Roms  mit  durchzumachen  gehabt  haben,  wissen 
die  ungeheueren  Schwierigkeiten  zu  wiirdigen,  die  dabei  zu 
(iberwinden  waren,  und  sind  deshalb  gcgeniiber  den  dabei 
begangenen  Missgriffen  eher  zur  Nachsicht  geneigt. 


HRIEFE   AUS   ROM.  249 

Dass  Missgriffe  begangen  worden  sind,  schwerc,  das  Ansehen 
Roms  und  Italiens  compromittirende  Missgriffe,  kann  Niemand 
in  Abrede  stellen.  Nur  glaube  ich,  dass  diese  Missgriffe 
schlimmer  nach  ihren  moralischen  und  okonomischen  Seiten 
als  in  der  architektonischen  Wirkung  gewesen  sind. 

Es  ist  nicht  meine  Absicht,  hier  auf  die  Ursachen  einzu- 
gehen,  die  nach  der  fieberhaften  Bautatigkeil  eines  vollen 
Jahrzehnts  gegen  Ende  der  achtziger  Jahre  den  furchtbaren 
Krach  herbeigefiihrt  haben,  der  hier  noch  in  frischester 
Erinnerung  steht.  Ich  habe  auch  nicht  zu  untersuchen,  ob 
aile  die  schweren  Anklagen  begrundet  sind,  welche  in  in-  und 
auslandischen  Schriften — noch  neulich  sehr  ausfuhrlich  in 
Zolas  "  Rome  " — gegen  die  Bauunternehmer  und  die  Finanz- 
manner  erhoben  werden,  die  bei  diesem  Krach  beteiiigt 
waren.  Wenn  auch  in  ihren  unheilvollen  Nachwirkungen 
noch  lange  nicht  uberwunden,  gehoren  diese  Dinge  doch  jetzt 
der  Vergangenheit  an.  Mein  Wunsch  ist,  soweit  dies  im 
Rahmen  einiger  Briefe  moghch  ist,  den  Lesern  der  COSMOPOLIS 
kurz  die  Eindriicke  vorzufiihren,  welche  das  gegenwartige,  das 
moderne  Rom  auf  einen  unbefangenen  Beschauer  ausiibt. 
Soweit  es  sich  zunachst  um  die  bauliche  Erneuerung  Roms 
handelt,  kommen  dabei  zwei  Gesichtspunkte  in  Betracht : 
einerseits  die  Erweiterung  Roms  durch  die  Wiederbebauung 
der  im  Mittelalter  verodeten  und  unter  der  Papstherrschaft 
grosstenteils  ode  gebliebenen  Stadtteile  und  durch  die  Anle- 
gung  ganz  neuer  Quartiere  auf  vorher  niemals  bebaut  ge- 
wesenem  Terrain,  andererseits  die  Veranderungen,  welche 
der  alte  aus  der  Papstherrschaft  iibernommene  Bestand  des 
romischen  Stadtkorpers  durch  Strassenerweiterungen,  Durch- 
briiche,  Niederlegung  ungesunder  Stadtviertel  und  namentlich 
durch  die  Tiberregulirung  erfahren  hat.  Obwol  die  unge- 
heueren  Arbeiten,  die  nach  beiden  Gesichtspunkten  hin  unter- 
nommen  werden  mussten,  noch  keineswegs  voUendet  sind,  so 
haben  doch  die  meisten  von  ihnen  einen  Stand  erreicht, 
der  eine  Wurdigung  ihrer  Ziele  und  des  bisher  Geleisteten 
ermoglicht. 

Die  Stadterweiterung  erstreckt  sich  innerhalb  des  aurelia- 
nischen  Mauerkreises  in  erster  Linie  auf  die  umfassenden 
Stadtviertel,  welche  den  in  der  Papstzeit  fast  ganz  unbebauten 


250  COSMOPOLIS. 

Osten  von  Rom  von  der  Porta  Pia  bis  zum  Lateran  auf  der 
ganzen  Hochebene  des  Quirinals,  des  Viminalis  und  des 
Esquilins  zii  beiden  Seiten  der  Eisenbahn  mit  einem  Netz 
zusammenhjingender  Strassenzuge  bedeckt  haben.  Ihnen 
schliesst  sich  im  Xorden  das  grosse  ebenfalls  ganz  neue  Quar- 
tier  an,  das  auf  dem  Grunde  der  sallustianischen  und  der 
ludovisischen  Garten  errichtet  worden  ist.  Getrennt  von 
diesen  beiden  grossen  Neuaniagen,  die  untereinander  und  mit 
dem  alten  Stadtkorper  von  Rom  durchaus  verschmolzen  sind, 
sind  in  dem  siidlichsten  Vorsprung  der  Stadtmauer  bei  Porta 
S.  Paolo,  zwischen  dem  Monte  Testaccio  und  dem  riesigen 
Neubau  des  Vieh-  und  Schlachthofes,  und  in  dem  siidlichsten 
Teil  von  Trastevere  bei  der  Porta  Portese  vereinzelt  gebliebene 
Quartiere  in  Angriff  genommen  worden.  Ausserhalb  der 
Stadtmauer  ist  rechts  des  Tibers  hinter  der  Engelsburg  auf 
den  Prati  del  Castello  ein  sehr  umfangreicher  ganz  neuer 
Stadtteil  in  der  Errichtung  begriffen.  Vor  dem  salarischen 
Thore  ziehen  sich  neue  Strassenzuge,  die  ehemalige  Villa 
Albani  einschliessend,  bis  an  und  iiber  die  nomentanische 
Strasse  hin,  die  von  Porta  Pia  durch  Garten,  Villen  und 
Vignen,  an  den  stillen  alten  Kirchen  von  S.  Agnese  fuori  le 
mura  und  S.  Costanza  vorbei,  nach  Nordosten  fiihrt.  Noch 
ohne  Zusammenhang  mit  dieser  Vorstadt  ist  die  kleinere,  die 
vor  Porta  S.  Lorenzo  und  dem  grossen  Kirchhof  von  Rom, 
dem  Campo  Verano  im  Entstehen  ist. 

Wer  als  Fremder  nach  Rom  kommt,  die  Seele  erfiillt  von 
den  Schauern  der  Vorwelt,  welche  die  ewige  Stadt  um- 
schweben,  oder  geschwellt  von  den  Idealen  der  Kunst,  deren 
Schatze  ihn  hier  erwarten,  fiihlt  sich  in  diesen  Gefiihlen 
fremdartig  beriihrt,  ja  empfindlich  verletzt  durch  die  Ein- 
drucke,  welche  diese  neuen  Stadtteile,  die  ersten,  die  der 
Ankommende  sieht,  in  ihm  hervorrufen.  Gerade,  breite, 
unabsehbar  lange  Strassen,  von  andern  ebenso  langen  Strassen 
in  regelmassigem  Abstand  rechtwinklig  gekreuzt  ;  durchaus 
moderne  fiinf-  und  sechsstockige  Hauser,  monoton  und  gleich- 
farbig  aneinander  gereiht,  nur  hier  und  da  von  machtigen 
offentlichen  Gebauden  ebenfalls  allermodernster  Bauart  unter- 
brochen  ;  allenthalben  Geleise  fur  Strassenbahnen,  die  Pfosten 
fiir  die  Leitung  des  elektrischen  Tramway,  elektrische  Bogen- 


BRIEFE   AUS  ROM.  25 1 

lampen  quer  iiber  den  Strassendammen  —  das  ist  die  Toilette, 
in  der  die  Niobe  der  Nationen,  wie  Byron  in  unverganglichen 
Versen  Rom  genannt  hat,  heutzutage  ihre  Besucher  empfangt. 

Es  fehlt  nicht  an  Stimmen,  die  sich  uber  diese  Toilette  sehr 
missbilligend  aussern.  Man  hat  sie  eine  Entstellung,  eine 
Entwiirdigung  Roms  genannt ;  das  vielverbreitete  Buch  eines 
Englanders,  das  auf  das  Urteil  seiner  Landsleute  nicht  ohne 
Einfluss  zu  bleiben  scheint,  versteigt  sich  bis  zu  der  Behaup- 
tung,  Rom  sei  durch  diese  neuen  Stadtteile  "  the  most  con- 
temptible city  of  the  world"  geworden.  Glaubt  man  diesen 
Tadlern,  so  mochte  man  zu  der  Ueberzeugung  kommen,  dass 
die  ganzen  neuen  Quartiere  von  Rom  nichts  als  der  argste  und 
unerhorteste  Schwindel  seien,  dass  es  sich  um  lauter  unsolide, 
unvollendete,  den  Einsturz  drohende  Bauten  handle,  und 
dass  es  bei  Weitem  am  besten  ware,  wenn  dies  neue  Rom  vom 
Erdboden  vertilgt  werden  konnte.  Allein  diese  Ueberzeugung 
wurde  den  Tatsachen  in  keiner  Weise  entsprechen.  Jener 
Tadel  ist  teils  vollig  ungerechtfertigt,  teils  sehr  iibertrieben, 
und  er  lasst  die  guten  Seiten,  welche  diese  neuen  Stadt- 
viertel,  ganz  abgesehen  von  ihren  hygienischen  Wirkungen, 
auch  vom  rein  architektonischen  Standpunkt  betrachtet  auf- 
zuweisen  haben,  ungerechtfertigter  Weise  ganzlich  ausser 
Betracht.  Ich  habe  die  Erbauung  dieser  neuen  Stadtteile 
im  Jahre  1885  im  ersten  Fortschritt,  1891  unmittelbar  nach 
der  grossen  Krisis  mitangesehen  und  habe  mir  jetzt  fiir  den 
Winteraufenthalt  in  Rom  eine  Wohnung  in  einer  der  neuesten 
Strassen  dicht  bei  der  Porta  Pinciana  gemietet.  Seit  sechs 
Wochen  studire  ich  die  romische  Stadterweiterung  und  ich 
darf  behaupten,  jeden  einzelnen  Teil  derselben  aufmerksam 
betrachtet  zu  haben.  Das  Ergebnis  dieser  Betrachtungen  ist 
Folgendes : 

Um  fiir  die  rasch  anwachsende  Bevolkerung,  die  sich  seit 
1870  ungefahr  verdoppelt  hat,  Raum  zu  schaffen,  war  die 
Anlage  neuer  gesunderer  Quartiere  absolut  notwendig.  Man 
hat  aber  sowol  seitens  der  Stadtverwaltung  als  auch  seitens 
der  Privatunternehmer  den  kommenden  Raumbedarf  erheblich 
uberschatzt  und  mehr  Quartiere  gleichzeitig  in  Angriff  genom- 
men,  als  notig  war  und  mit  den  vorhandenen  Mitteln  bewaltigt 
werden  konnte.     Dies  und  die  Einmischung  arger  Spekula- 


2^2  COSMOPOLTS. 

tionsvvut  hat  zu  dem  Krach  und  durch  ihii  ziir  Verlangsamung, 
ja  teilweise  zur  Einstellung  bereits  begonnener  Arbeiten 
gefuhrt.  In  Folge  dessen  sieht  man  in  Rom  sowol  innerhalb 
des  Mauerkreises  als  namentlich  draussen  in  den  Vorstadten 
unvollendet  gebliebene  einzelne  Hauser,  stellenweise  auch  ganze 
Gebaudecomplexe,  die  mit  den  leeren  Fensterhohlen,  den 
ungeputzten  Umfassungsmauern,  den  vviistgebliebenen  Strassen- 
anlagen  einen  trostlosen  Anblick  gevvahren.  Am  Schlimmsten 
sieht  es  in  dem  grossartig  entworfenen  aber  schon  in  den 
Anfangen  stecken  gebliebenen  Vorstadtquartier  vor  Porta 
Salaria  aus.  Um  die  ganzlich  unzugiinglich  gewordene  Villa 
Albani  Winkelmannschen  Andenkens  herum  ist  ein  Fabrik- 
und  Arbeiterviertel  mit  ganzen  Reihen  unvollendeter  oder 
verlassener  Neubauten  sichtbar,  das  mit  den  herrlichen  Baum- 
kronen,  die  iiber  die  Gartenmauern  der  Villa  emporragen  und 
ihren  niir  durch  die  Thorgitter  wahrnehmbaren  Schmuck- 
platzen  auf  das  Triibseligste  und  Schreiendste  kontrastirt. 

Dem  gegeniiber  steht  die  Tatsache,  dass  der  grosse  neue 
Stadtteil  auf  der  Hochebene  um  die  Eisenbahn,  mit  Ausnahme 
der  aussersten  Auslaufer  iiber  die  Piazza  Vittorio  Emanuele 
hinaus,  und  das  ebenfalls  neue  umfangreiche  Quartier  im 
Norden  bis  an  die  Stadtmauer  heran,  lauter  durchaus  verstandig 
angelegte  Strassen  mit  solid  erbauten  Hausern  aufweisen. 
In  beiden  Stadtteilen  sind  sowol  nach  dem  Bebauungsplan 
als  in  Wirklichkeit  ausreichende  freie  Platze  librig  gelassen 
worden.  Einen  offentlichen  Platz  von  dem  Umfange  und 
mit  so  schonen  Gartenanlagen  geschmiickt  wie  die  Piazza 
Vittorio  Emanuele  haben  wenige  Stadte  der  Welt.  Ausser 
diesen  offentlichen  Platzen  sind  in  beiden  Stadtteilen  zahl- 
reiche  Reste  der  alten  Gartenvillen  ubrig  geblieben,  deren 
Baumwipfel  die  gelben  Linien  der  Hauserreihen  woltuend 
unterbrechen.  Klein  im  Verhaltnis  zu  seinem  friiheren 
Umfang,  aber  gross  fur  einen  Garten  im  Innern  einer  mo- 
dernen  Grossstadt  ist  der  Park,  der  sich  an  den  neu 
errichteten  Palast  Ludovisi  anschliesst.  Auch  von  der  angren- 
zenden  Villa  Massimo  ist  ein  Rest  erhalten,  der  ein  ziemlich 
geraumiges  Strassenviereck  ausfullt.  Von  den  Garten  des 
Sallust  ist  derjenige  Teil  stehen  geblieben,  der  die  Ueberreste 
des  alten  romischen   Hauses  umgibt.      Der  grosse   Park  des 


BRIEFE   AUS   ROM.  253 

Palastes  der  Barberini  ist  fast  unberuhrt  geblieben.  Erhalten 
ist  an  der  Via  venti  Settembre  der  grosste  Teil  der  Villa  Bona- 
parte und  gegeniiber  die  jetzt  von  der  englischen  Botschaft 
bewohnte  Villa  Torlonia.  Auch  fur  den  neuesten  Stadtteil 
auf  der  rechten  Tiberseite  in  den  Prati  del  Castello  sind  aus- 
reichend  freie  Platze  projektirt.  Nach  dieser  Richtung  bin  kann 
sich  Neu-Rom  mit  jeder  andern  Grossstadt  messen,  nament- 
lich  wenn  erwogen  wird,  dass  Rom  fur  den  Verlust  der  grossen 
Villen  am  Pincius  einen  nicht  unbetrachtlichen  Ersatz 
in  neugeschaffenen  durchaus  offentlichen  Gartenanlagen 
und  Promenaden  erhalten  hat ;  in  erster  Linie  in  der  jetzt 
beinahe  vollstandig  voUendeten  grossartigen  Passeggiaia 
Margherita  auf  der  Hohe  des  Janiculus,  dann  aber  auch  in  dem 
reizenden  Schmuckplatz  am  Bahnhof,  in  dem  schonen  Garten- 
platz,  der  von  dem  Konigspalast  auf  dem  Quirinal  an  dem 
Sudostabhang  des  Hiigels  hihabfiihrt;  in  kleineren  Anlagen  am 
Corso  Vittorio  Emanuele  und  an  der  Via  Arenula.  Der  nord- 
liche  Stadtteil  besitzt  ohnedies  in  den  zusammenhangenden 
Baummassen  der  Promenade  auf  dem  Pincio,  der  intakt  geblie- 
benen  Villa  Medici  und  der  Villa  Borghese,  welche  durch  die 
Erschliessung  des  friiher  ganz  unzuganglichen  reizenden 
furstlichen  Privatgartens  einen  neuen  Schmuck  fiir  das 
Publikum  gewonnen  hat,  einen  Parkcomplex,  der  an  Umfang 
unserm  Berliner  Tiergarten  gleichkommt,  ihn  aber  durch 
seine  Hohenlage,  die  kostliche  frische  Luft  und  den  Reichtum 
der  herrlichsten  Aussichten  weitaus  iibertrifft. 

An  malerischem  und  romantischem  Reiz  konnen  die  neuen 
Stadtviertel  mit  dem  aiten  Stadtkorper  nicht  annahernd  wettei- 
fern.  Aber  es  ist  eine  vollig  irrige  Vorstellung,  wenn  man  sie, 
wie  dies  ofter  geschehen  ist,  der  platten  Prosa  unseres 
Kopnicker  Feldes  gleichstellt.  Davor  hat  sie  schon  die  Lage 
der  Stadt  auf  ihren  Hiigeln  geschiitzt.  Die  Behauptung  eines  der 
erbittertsten  Gegners  des  Bebauungsplans,  der  piano  regolatore 
habe  sich  die  Abtragung  dieser  Hiigel  zum  Ziele  gesetzt, 
nchtet  sich  durch  ihre  Albernheit  von  selbst.  Freiiich  sind 
Starke  Abtragungen  und  machtige  Aufschuttungeii  notig 
gewesen,  um  von  der  Hochflache  hinter  dem  Quirinal  und  dem 
Esquilin  praktikable,  fiir  P'uhrwerk  jeder  Art  ziigfingliche 
Verkehrsvvege  zum  Innern  der  Altstadt  herzustellen  ;  von  dem 


254  COSMOPOLIS. 

Umfang  und  der  Schwierigkeit  der  hierzu  erforderlich  gewe- 
senen  BauausfQhrungen  hat  man  noch  jetzt  zu  beiden  Seiten 
der  Via  Cavour  einleuchtende  Beispiele  vor  Augen.  An 
andern  Stellen  ist  das  starke  Gefall  der  Hugel  durch  Strassen- 
krummungen  uberwunden  worden ;  wo  auch  dies  nicht 
anging,  hat  man  zur  Anlegung  von  Freitreppen  gegriffen. 
AUe  diese  Ungleichheiten  des  Terrains,  die  durch  sie  entstan- 
denen  Verschiebungen,  Ueberhohungen  und  Unterfuhrungen 
ergeben  auch  fiir  die  neuen  Stadtteile  eine  Fulle  abwech- 
selnder,  haufig  ungemein  reizvoUer  Strassenbilder. 

Endlich  ist  auch  die  Architektur  der  neuen  Stadtteile  nicht 
so  schlechthin  verwerflich,  wie  dies  vielfach  behauptet  worden 
ist.  Es  ist  wahr,  die  Hauser  sind  durchweg  einfach  gehalten. 
Aber  ihre  Anlage  ist  nicht  ohne  alien  Sinn  fiir  baukCinstlerische 
Wirkung.  Zunachst  darf  als  ein  zwar  negatives  aber  darum 
doch  nicht  geringes  Verdienst  die  vollige  Abwesenheit  jener 
protzigen,  rein  iiusserlichen  Stuck-  und  Gipsfa9aden  hervorge- 
hoben  werden,  an  denen  die  modernen  Stadtteile  anderer 
Grossstadte  laboriren.  Hauser,  denen  derartige  Stilbluten 
vorgeklebt  worden  sind,  gehoren  in  Rom  zu  den  allerselten- 
sten,  vollig  verschwindenden  Ausnahmen.  Die  unendlich 
grosse  Mehrzahl  der  Privatbauten  ist  einfach  und  niichtern, 
aber  sie  zeigt  in  den  geschickten  horizontalen  Gliederungen 
der  Geschosse,  in  vertikalen  Teilungen  der  Fa9ade  ein 
gesundes  architektonisches  Gefuhl.  In  den  neuesten  Stadt- 
teilen  tritt  dieses  Gefuhl  auch  in  der  kraftigen  Ausbildung 
des  Erdgeschosses  (hohes  Parterre  und  Mezzanino  als  ein 
Stockwerk  zusammengefasst)  und  in  den  wirkungsvollen, 
durch  Saulenstellungen  und  einfache  Balkons  hervorgeho- 
benen  Tiiroffnungen  zu  Tage. 

Aber  ich  furchte,  dieser  Brief  ist  schon  zu  lang  geworden. 
Sie  werden  daher  gestatten,  dass  ich  auf  die  Umgestaltung  der 
innern  Stadt  in  meiner  nachsten  Epistel,  im  Zusammenhange 
mit  dem,  was  zur  Gesundung  Roms  geschehen  ist,  eingehe. 
Zum  Schluss  nur  ein  Wort  uber  die  angebliche  Modernisirung 
der  ewigen  Stadt. 

Gestern  war  VoUmond.  Ich  fuhr  zum  Coliseo.  Obwol 
ich  am  aussersten  Ende  des  neuen  Stadtteils  im  Norden 
wohne,  fiihrtc  mich  mein  Weg  in  wenigen  Minuten  zur  Piazza 


BRIEFfi  AUS   ROM.  255 

Barberini,  wo  Berninis  Triton  seinen  schlanken  Wasserstrahl 

im    silbernen    Mondlicht  glanzen   Hess ;    dann    tauchte    der 

Wagen  sofort  in  den  tiefen  Schatten  der  engen  alten  Strassen, 

die  am  Abhang  des  Quirinals  um  den  Capitolshugel  herum 

fuhren.      Nur    eine    lichte    Stelle    unterwegs  :     das    Forum 

Trajans,   vom    Mondlicht    libergossen,   das  die   hohe    Saule 

in    seiner    Mitte    rings    umwitterte    und    neckisch    um   den 

Himmelspfortner  spielte,  der  dort  oben   Trajans   Nachfolger 

geworden    ist.     Aus    den    Schattenmassen   weiterhin   hoben 

sich  die  machtigen  Mauerreste  des  Augustusforums  und  das  ' 

Saulenpaar  des  Minervatempels  mit  besonders  finsteren  Um- 

rissen  ab.    Da  erhebt  sich  plotzlich,  dicht  vor  uns,  eine  silber- 

graue   Gebirgswand ;    hoch   bis   zum    Himmel    ragt   sie  auf, 

rechts  und  links  breitet  sie  sich   unabsehbar  aus,  eine  grosse 

ruhige  Masse  in  schon  geschwungener  Rundung,  deren  ober- 

ster  Rand  vom  hellen   Mondglanz  mit  einer  feinen,  scharfen 

Silberlinie    eingefasst    ist  :     ccco  it  Colisco !     Wir  traten    mit 

einem    Schauer  der   Ehrfurcht   in   das   Innere,   und    unsere 

Bewunderung  wuchs.     Vor  uns  dehnten  sich  die  unabsehli- 

chen  Rundungen  der  Sitzreihen  aus,  vorn  in  schwere  Schatten 

gehullt,  uns  gegeniiber  in  silbergrauem  Dammerlicht  wie  eine 

feme  Gebirgslandschaft ;    das  machtige  Ganze  ruhevoll   und 

majestatisch  einfach.     Nicht  wie  ein  Gebild  von  Menschen- 

hand,  sondern  wie  ein  Naturereignis,  frei  von  alien  Schlacken 

und    Schaden,   die   ihm    die    Jahrtausende  zugefiigt    haben, 

unverganglich    und   unvergleichlich   steht  der  Riesenbau  da, 

ein  Sinnbild  und  ein  Wahrzeichen  dieser  einzigen  und  ewigen 

Stadt  Rom. 

ROM,  November  iSgj,  P.  D.  FISCHER, 


DEUTSCHE  BlICHER. 


Pavl  Schlkxthkr  :  (icihart  Htuipimann.  —  WcilnuKhtsbiichtr :  Scuc 
Cwcdichie  von  Pafl  Hkysk,  Xorcllcn  von  Hkkmax  (iHimm. —  Kin  j^<in:cr 
Maun  von  W.  H.  Riehl. 

Gerhart  Hauptmann  besteht  zur  Stunde  die  schwerste 
Probe,  die  einem  rechten  Kunstler  drohen  kanii  :  er  ist  augen- 
blicklich,  soweit  die  deutsche  Zunge  klingt,  Mode.  Seine 
Bucher  erleben  nahezu  so  viele  Auflagen,  wie  die  Romane  der 
Marlitt  und  von  Ebers.  Seine  Rebellenstiicke  werden  fast 
ebenso  hjiufig  gespielt,  wie  Rundreisestucke  von  Schonthan 
und  Koppel-Ellfeld  :  "  Die  Weber "  brachten  es  nach  ihrer 
denkwiirdigen  Freigebung  durch  das  preussische  Verwaltungs- 
gericht  im  Deutschen  Theater  in  Berlin  auf  211  Auffiihrun- 
gen ; "  Die  versunkene  Glocke/'  voin  2.  Dezember  1896  bis  zum 
T.  Juli  1897  in  demselben  Schaiispielhaus  auf  100  Wieder- 
holungen.  Strebsame  ji'ingere  Germanisten  wiihlen  Haupt- 
mann zum  Helden  ihrer  "  Forschungen  zur  neueren  Litteratur- 
geschichte/'  *  Und  ein  verdriesslicher  halber  Gegner,  wie 
Adolf  Bartels  t,  der  auszog,  um  zu  fluchen  und  unterwegs  mehr 
als  einmal  widerwillig  segnen  muss,  bekundet  anekdotisch  die 
ausserordentliche  Popularitiit  von  Hauptmanns  jungstem 
Marchendrama :  "  die  deutschen  Backfische  lernten  die  Ti- 
rade liber  die  Thrilne  auswendig  und  die  Strassenbuben  (ich 
hab's  selbst  gehort)  schimpften  sich  Waldschratt."  Erstaun- 
licher-  und  erfreulicherweise  haben  diese  Massenerfolge  nicht 
das  leiseste  Zugestandnis  an  den  Massengeschmack  zur  Voraus- 
setzung.    Gerhart  Hauptmann  ist  sich  selbst  treu  geblieben. 

*  Gerhart  Hauptmaiiu  \o\\  I'.  C.  WiU'inr.    *•  Forschungen  /ur  neueren  Littc- 
raturj?eschich*e,"  hcrausj^e^cben  v(»n  Franz  Muiickcr.     Miinclien,  i8{)7. 
f  Gcrliurl  Htutptinuiin,  \t)n  Ado!'  lUirtt'/s.     Weimar,  liniil  KcIIhm.  1S97.  S.  21  j. 


DEUTSCHE   BiJCHER.  257 

Nur  die  Anderen  sind  angesichts  seines  wachsendeii  Konnens 

vielfach  andrer  Meinung  geworden.     Derselbe  Mann,  dessen 

SoHHcnaufgang  1889  auf  der  Berliner  Freien  Biihne  nicht  nur 

Moral-   und   Kunstpedanten   als  Sonnenuntergang   deutscher 

Art  und  Zucht  erschien,  wurde  mittlerweile  wiederholt  von 

Akademikern  und  Professoren  fur  den  Grillparzer-  und  Schiller- 

Preis  vorgeschlagen.      AUerdings   nicht  fiir  den  Sturm  und 

Drang  seiner  Erstlinge.     Der   Dichter  der   "Weber,"   durch 

dessen  Herz,  wie  durch  das   Herz  seines   Florian  Geyer  "  ein 

brennendes  Recht  fliesst,"  hatte  —  wie  lang  zuvor  in  unge- 

druckten  lyrischen  Jugenddichtungen  —  nun  auch  als  Drama- 

tiker    sein  kindliches  *^Mdrchenherz"  offenbart.     Dank  dieser 

Wandlungs-  und  Entwicklungs-Fahigkeit  gewann  er  —  ohne 

die  Getreuen  seiner  Anfange  zu  verlieren  —  immer  neue  Par- 

teiganger  in  neuen  Lagern.    Zu  seinen  Gunsten  erhoben  sich 

immer  mehr,  immer  gewichtigere  Stimmen.    Auch  unter  den 

engeren  Kunstgenossen.     Wol   stehen   noch  manche  Meister 

der  alteren  Generation  seinen  Schopfungen  nach  wie  vor  so 

fremd  und  abwehrend  gegenuber,  wie  Lessing  dem  Gotz  und 

Werther,    wie    der    alternde    Klopstock    den    aufsteigenden 

Jungeren,  wie  der  Goethe  der  zweiten  dem  Schiller  der  ersten 

Periode.     Seitdem  jedoch  der  Jungste  der  Alien  —  wenn  nicht 

gar  der  Jungen — Theodor  Fontane,  Pathe  gestanden  beim  "Son- 

nenaufgang,"  haben  noch  ein  paar  andere  sechzig-  bis  siebzig- 

jahrige  Dichter  dem  trotzigen  Neuerer  ihr  Herz  zugewendet. 

Dem  Autor  des  Lassalle- Romans  "  In  Reih  und  Glied,"  Friedrich 

Spielhagen,  ist  die  Bedeutung  der  "  Weber  "  aufgegangen,  und 

der    berufenste  Wortfiihrer    deutschen    Biirgertums,    Gustav 

Freytag,   hat   mit   warmen  Worten   fiir  das   "  Hannele "   des 

schlesischen  Landsmannes  sich   eingesetzt.     Die   Greise  ver- 

trauten  dem  Liebling  der  Jugend.     Und  Gerhart  Hauptmann 

erwies  sich  ihres  und  jedes  anderen    kunstlerischen  Anteils 

wiirdig.     Unbeirrt  durch  Lob  und  Tadel,  wenig  beriihrt  durch 

Erfolge  und  Misserfolge,  gibt  er  in   jedem  neuen  Werk  ein 

Neues,   sucht  er  unablassig  neue  Formen,   neue  Stoffe,   neue 

Aufgaben.     Er  beugt  sich  keinem  schulmassigen   Machtwort, 

er  dient  keiner  politischen  Sekte.    Er  griindet  seine  Herrschaft 

uber  die  kompakte  Majoritat  des  Tages  auf  seine  voUkommenc 

Unabhangigkeit  von  den  Wiinschen  des  Tages,  von  den  For- 
voL.  IX.— NO.  XXV.  1 7 


258  COSMOFOLIS. 

denmgen    der    kompakten    Majoritiit.       Ziir    L'eberraschung 
friiherer  Feinde  und  Freunde  ist  er  von  der  freien  Biihne  der 
Naturalisten   zur   Phantasiebuhne  der  Traum-  und  Marchen- 
dichtung  iibergegangen,  vom  pathetischen  Entriistungs-Pessi- 
mismus  des  "  Sonnenaufgangs "   zur  humoristischen    Abferti- 
gung  menschlicher  Thorheit  und  Niedrigkeit  im  "Biberpelz" 
fortgeschritten.     Und  der  Wechsel  seiner  Tone  bringt  uns  die 
trostliche  Gevvissheit,  dass  audi   unser  Dichter  "  kein  ausge- 
kliigelt  Buch,"   dass  auch  Gerhart  Hauptmann   *'ein   Mensch 
mit    seinem    Widerspruch "   ist.       Ein   wahrer,    wahrhaftiger 
Mensch,  der  einmal  kein  Hehl  daraus  macht,  dass  ein  Haupt- 
werk,  wie  '*  Die  Weber  "  durch  Erziihlungen  seines  Vaters  an- 
geregt,  durch  die  Schicksale  seines  Grossvaters  bedingt  und 
bestimmt  wurden  ;  ein  andermal  —  bei  den  "  Einsamen  Men- 
schen"  —  "dies  Drama  in  die  Hande  derjenigen  legt,  die  es 
erlebt  haben "   und  auch  sonst  oft  absichtslos  den  Eindruck 
weckt,  Eigenstes,  Geheimstes  zu  geben  —  Konfessionen  einer 
reinen,   redlichen  Natur,   Familien-  und  Stammesgeschichten 
einer  Personlichkeit,  die  reicher  und  grosser  ist,  als  der  Inbe- 
griff  ihrer  Werke.     Wo  Leben  und  Dichten  einander  so  innig 
durchdringen,  wie  im  Schaffen  Gerhart   Hauptmanns,  ist  es 
nichts  weniger  als  miissige   Neugier,   den   Werdegang  eines 
solchen   Schopfergeistes  zu   verfolgen.      Die  Biographic  des 
Dichters  wird  hier  wirklich  nach  Herders  Geheiss  der  beste 
Commentar  seiner  Schriften.     Und  ein  seltener  Glucksfall  fugt 
es,  dass  als  gradezu  klassischer  Zeuge   Paul  Schlenther  Auf- 
schluss  gibt  uber  Herkunft  und  Jugend,   Irrungen  und  Wir- 
rungen,    Kampfc   und   Siege   seines   Herzensfreundes.*      Als 
Mitbegriinder  der  Freien  Buhne,  als  Fiirsprecher  des  Aufstre- 
benden,  als  "  Ausleger  seiner  dichterischen  Traume  "  hat  er  so 
viel  fiir  Gerhart  Hauptmann  getan,  dass  ihm  wirklich  zu  tun 
kaum  etwas  iibrig  blieb,  als  was  er  nun  zu  guter  Stunde  fertig 
brachtc  :     den  ersten  sachkundigen,  sorgfaltigen,  liebreichen 
und  geschmackvoUen  Bericht  uber  Gerhart  Hauptmanns  Dich- 
tung  und  Lebenslauf.   Die  Arbeit  triigt  ihren  Lohn  in  sich.    So 
lang  man  nach  dcm  schlesischcn   Meister  fragen  wird,   wird 
man  auch  seines  Chronisten  gedenken,  der  seinesgleichen  sucht 

*  i'ufhiirt  Iltin/'tniiiini.     Scin   lA'lunvgMn.^   iiiul   seine    Didilmij;.    von    Paul 
SKliUnllnr.     iicrliii,  S.  Kisclicr,  l^<9S, 


DEUTSCHE   bOCHER.  259 

in  der  seltenen  Kunst,  sich  behaglich  mitzuteilen  unci  in  der 
noch  selteneren  Kunst,  eines  Freundes  Freund  zu  sein. 

II. 

Vor  hundert  Jahren  wanderte  ein  armer  Weber  aus  Bohmen 
iiber  das  Gebirg  nach  Schlesien  und  Hess  sich  in  Herischdorf 
bei  Warmbrunn  nieder.  Einer  der  vier  Sohne  dieses  Alien, 
Karl  Ehrenfried  Hauptmann,  sass  in  jungen  Jahren  —  wie  die 
Widmung  der  "  Weber  "  ausdriicklich  meldet  —  gleichfalis 
hinter'm  Webstuhl,  bis  er  die  Befreiungskriege  mitmachte. 
Nachdem  er  seinen  Abschied  als  Feldwebel  genommen,  trat  er 
in  eine  Gastwirtschaft  ein ;  vom  Oberkellner  brachte  er  es  zuni 
Pachter  des  graflich  Schaffgotschischen  Kurhauses  von  Flins- 
berg,  spaterhin  des  Kronenwirtshauses  in  Salzbrunn,  dessen 
Eigentumer  er  1839  wurde.  Karl  Ehrenfrieds  Sohn,  Robert, 
nachmals  der  Vater  unseres  Dichters,  machte  ein  paar  Gym- 
nasialjahre  in  Schweidnitz  mil ;  dann  kam  er  in  eine  Breslauer 
Weinkellerei  und  nach  ausgiebigen  Lehr-  und  Wanderjahren 
als  eigener  Herr  auf  den  Salzbrunner  Gasthof  zur  Krone,  dem 
er  vorstand  im  Geiste  seines  mehr  auf  einen  Kunstler,  als 
auf  einen  Geschaftsmann  deutenden  Grundsatzes  ;  "  Ich  habe 
nie  gefragt,  ob  es  meinen  Gasten  gefiel,  ich  habe  nie  eher 
geruht,  als  bis  es  mir  selbst  gefiel."  Als  Hausfrau  stand  ihm 
die  Tochter  des  fiirstlich  plessischen  Brunnenwarters  Strahler 
zur  Seite  (ihr  Familienname  begegnet  uns  wieder  in  Haupt- 
manns  Komodie  College  Crampton)  ;  der  Stammbaum  des 
Madchens  fiihrt  auf  schlesische  Landleute  zuriick,  die  sich  als 
Untertanen  des  altansassigen  Grafengeschlechtes  Im  Schloss- 
dienst  langsam  emporarbeiteten  ;  allesamt  durchtrankt  von 
den  Ueberlieferungen  tiefwurzelnder  Gottesfurcht  ihrer  Heimat- 
gegend,  in  deren  Umkreis  die  wiederholt  in  Hauptmanns 
Dichtungen  genannten  Ortschaften  Gnadenfrei  und  Herrnhut 
liegen.  Im  Haus  dieser  Eltern  wuchs  Gerhart  als  der  Jiingste, 
am  15.  November  1862  Geborene,  von  vier  Geschwistern  auf. 
in  der  Obersalzbrunner  Dorfschule,  und  von  seinem  12.  Jahi 
ab  als  Realschiiler  in  Breslau,  war  der  Kleine  nichts  weniger 
als  ein  Musterknabe.  Er  verstand  die  Lehrer,  die  Lehrer 
verstanden  ihn  nicht.  Nur  im  deutschen  Aufsatz  war  er 
*'  Oberster.     Alles  Andere   brachte  ihn    auf   die    Lotterbank. 


t6o  COSMOPOLIS. 

Dies  miihselige  FortkommenfGerhartb,  der  2J2  Jahre  in  Obei- 
prima  blieb,  war  fiir  die  Seinigen  um  so  lastiger,  als  auch  sonst 
immer  ernstere  Sorge  den  vaterlichen  Hausstand  bedrangte. 
Salzbrunn,  das  jahrelang  mit  Vorliebe  von  polnischen   Mag- 
naten  aufgesucht  worden  war,  litt  durch  den  ungeahnten  Auf- 
schwung  modernen  Bahnverkehrs.     Der  schlesische   Badeort 
wich  fernerliegenden  Reisezielen.     Mit  starker  Einbusse  von 
Gliicksgutern,  doch  mit  reinem  Namen,  musste  Vater  Haupt- 
mann  sein  Erbgut  veraussern,  das  den  spateren  Besitzer  zum 
Millionar  machte,   da  sich   unversehens  die  Pferdetranke  als 
Gesundbrunnen  bewahrte.    Gerhart   bot   sich   nun  eine  neue 
Zufluchtsstatte :      die     Oekonomie    seines    Onkels    Schubert 
im   Striegauer   Kreis.     Dem   frommglaubigen    Mann  war  der 
einzige  Sohn   vorzeitig  entrissen   worden.    An  dessen  Stella 
sollte   Gerhart  die   Vereinsamten   trosten.     In   weit  hoherem 
Maass  als  daheim   herrschte  hier  im   Trauerhause   religioser 
herrnhutischer  Geist,  der  sich  indessen  mit  edlerer  Geselligkeit 
wol  vertrug.     Die  Dorfpastoren  machten  nach  der  Sonntags- 
predigt  gern  ihre  Partie  Schach  mit   Onkel  Schubert,  und  die 
musikalischen  Damen  des  Hauses  begeisterten  ihren  Schiitz- 
ling  nicht  nur  mit  Choralen  und  Volksweisen  :   sie  erschlossea 
ihmdieWerke  von  Bach,  Handel,  Beethoven.  "Gerhart  Haupt— 
mann  hat  seine  Xante  und  seinen  Onkel  kindlich  verehrt  uncL 
er  bewahrt  sie  im  dankbaren  Gemut.    Aber  heimisch  ist  er  au 
ihrer  SchoUe  nicht  geworden  und  ein  vollkommener  Landwir 
ward  er  in  Lederose  so  wenig  wie  ein  vollkommener  Christ  — 
Das  empfand  er,  und  darum  ging  er."     Ein  Stammbuchblatt  ^^ 
das  er   nach   Jahren   Xante  Schubert  widmete,   ist   nicht  dem" 
geringste  Schmuck  von  Schlenthers  Buch  : 

Ich  kain  vom  Pflug  der  Krdc 
Zum  Flug  ins  weite  All  — 
Und  vom  Gebriill  der  Hcrdc 
Zum  Sang  der  Xachtigall. 

Die  Welt  hat  nianche  Strassc 
T^nd  jede  gilt  mir  gleich  ; 
Ob  ich  ins  Erdreich  fasbe, 
{)h  ins  Gedankeiireich  — 

Es  wiegt  in  gleicher  Schwerc 
Auf  Erden  jedcs  Glied. 
Ihr  gebt  mir  Eurc  Aehrc 
icli  j^ebe  Kuch  mcin  Lied. 


DEUTSCHE   BCCHER.  261 

Einstweileii  wahnte  sich  Gerhart  zum  Bildhauer  berufen. 
Wiederum  zog  er  nach  Breslau,  diesmal  auf  die  Kunstschule, 
wo  er  ungef^r  die  nachmals  im  "  Collegen  Crampton  "  ge- 
schilderten  Erfahrungen  von  Max  Strahler  machte :  "  wir 
Strahlers,"  so  heisst  es  dort  sehr  bezeichnend,  "  sind  alle  Dick- 
schadel.  Aber  wir  schlagen  uns  Beulen  an  unsere  Dickschadel 
in  alien  Regenbogenfarben."  Ein  Tollkopf  der  Art  wird  offen- 
bar  auch  Gerhart  gewesen  sein.  Der  Direktor  verwamte,  der 
Modellirlehrer  verabschiedete  ihn,  bald  nachher  diktirte  ihm 
ein  scharfes  SQndenregister  der  Konferenz  elfwochentliche 
Ausschliessung  zu.  In  alien  Noten  nahm  sich  der  Bildhauer 
Professor  Hartel  seiner  an ;  der  ruhmte  nicht  nur  eine  von 
Gerhart  in  rotem  Wachs  modellirte,  durch  die  Wolken  jagende 
Gottheit ;  er  achtete  teilnahmsvoU  auf  die  dichterischen  Ver- 
suche  des  jQnglings  und  suchte  und  fand  schliesslich  Furbitter 
beim  Grossherzog  von  Weimar,  der  Gerhart  gestattete,  sich  in 
Jena  zu  immatriculiren  als  studiosus  historiae.  In  angeregtem 
Verkehr  mit  seinem  begabten  Bruder  Carl,  und  dessen  Kame- 
raden,  als  Hospitant  bei  Haeckel  und  Eucken,  oifnete  sich  ihm 
die  Gedankenwelt  Darwins,  der  Ideenkreis  der  modernen 
Volkswirtschaft.  Und  schon  dazumal  dichtete  er  fur  sich  und 
die  Feuergeister  seines  Kreises  den  Lebensspruch  :  "  Was  wir 
gefuhlt,  was  wir  gewollt,  zu  sagen  ist  uns  Pflicht.  In  unsrer 
Zeiten  Adem  roUt  stait  roten  Blutes  rotes  Gold,  in  unsren  Adern 
nicht  etc."  Auch  kfinstlerische  Zwischenspiele  fehlten  nicht. 
Gerhart  wanderte  gelegentlich  zu  einer  Auffiihrung  der  "Wal- 
kure"  nach  Weimar,  und  in  der  Jenenser  Aula  des  Gymnasiums 
wirkten  freieVortrage  von  Otto  Devrient,  zumal  "Die  Frosche" 
des  Aristophanes,  nachhaltig  auf  den  Jiingling.  Trotz  alledem 
duldete  es  ihn  nicht  langer  an  der  Hochschule.  Er  besuchte 
seinen  altesten  Bruder  Georg,  der  sich  mit  einer  der  funf 
Tochter  des  Grosskaufherrn  Thienemann  vermalt  hatte,  in 
Bergedorf  bei  Hamburg  ;  von  dort  fuhr  er  zu  Schiff  bis  zum 
mittellandischen  Meer.  Sein  Reisefuhrer  war  Byrons  Childe 
Harold,  den  er  alsbald  in  einer  technisch  recht  unreifen,  bio- 
graphisch  desto  belangreicheren  Dichtung  **Profncthidenloos*' 
nachzuahmen  versuchte.  Der  Weltschmerz  des  Lord-Ober- 
dichters  kleidete  sich  in  weltmannischere  Formen,  als  die 
schwermutigen  Klagen  des  schlesischen  Biirgersohnes,  Immer- 


262  COSMOPOLIS. 

hit!  bleibt  es  fur  Gerharts  Gemutsart  charakteristisch,  dass  alle 
landschaftliche  Pracht  von  Andalusien  und  Siiditalien  seinen 
Grimm  wider  die  Gesellschafts-Ordnung  steigert,  statt  ihn  zu 
mildern  ;  dass  er  angesichts  der  Verkommenheit  des  neapoli- 
tanischen  Pobels  den  Wehruf  ausstosst :  "  SchafFt  mir  Neapel 
aus  Neapels  Welt."  Ein  zweiter  Aufenthalt  in  Italien  gait 
erneuter  Beschaftigung  mit  der  Bildhauerei.  Er  richtete  sich 
voriibergehend  ein  Atelier  in  Rom  ein,  erkrankte  jedoch  am 
Typhus  so  schwer,  dass  er  ins  deutsche  Krankenhaus  geschafft 
werden  musste,  "  Hier  schvvebte  er  lange  in  Lebensgefahr  : 
an  seinem  Lager  sass  sein  guter  Engel  :  seine  Braut,"  die 
ScJiwagerin  seines  Bruders,  Marie  Thienemann,  die  Gerhart, 
noch  nicht  23-jahrig,  im  Mai  1885  in  Dresden  heiratete.  Aben- 
teuerliche  Zukunftsplane  beschaftigten  ihn  kurz  vor  und  nach 
seiner  Hochzeit.  Eine  Weile  hatte  er,  im  Bann  von  Richard 
Wagners  Gesamtkunstwerk,  von  einer  Verschmelzung  von 
Poesie  und  Plastik  getr^umt,  gleich  darauf  Unterweisung  in 
der  Schauspielkunst  gesucht.  Allein  er  vertrug  nicht  den 
dauernden  Aufenthalt  in  Berlin.  Aus  den  "  Steingrabern  "  der 
Grossstadt  rettete  er  sich  zur  Sommerszeit  nach  Rugen,  im 
Herbst  nach  dem  eine  Bahnstunde  von  Berlin  entfernten 
Vorort  Erkner  (dem  Schauplatz  der  "  Familienkatastrophe  : 
Ein  Friedensfest").  Dort  wurden  ihm  dtei  Knaben  geschenkt : 
der  Aelteste,  nach  Berthold  Auerbachs  "  Hajrle  "  Ivo  genannt. 
So  hauste  er  in  bescheidener  Unabhangigkeit,  gehorig  und 
ungehorig  ausgebeutet  von  Kunstzigeunern,  die  jungst 
wiederum  Otto  Julius  Bierbaum  *  nicht  iibel  —  vorher  und 
nachher  freilich  Niemand  in  lebenstreueren,  sparsameren, 
kr&ftigeren  Umrissen  —  gezeichnet  hat,  als  Hauptmann  selbst 
im  Braun  der  "  Einsamen  Menschen,"  im  Mothes  seiner  Diebs- 
und  Meister-Komodie  "  Der  Biberpelz."  Zeitweilig  war  er 
wol  auch  zu  Gaste  geladen  in  einem  Litteraten-Verein 
"  Durch  " ;  andremale  in  niiherem  Gedankenaustausch  mit  den 
redlichen  sozialistischen  Schwarmern  Bruno  Wille  und  Wil- 
helm  Bolsche  ;  im  Sommer  1888  monatelang  in  Zurich  in  der 
Gelehrten-Gesellschaft  seines  Bruders  Carl,  in  den  Universitats- 
Cirkeln  von  Forel  und  Avenarius,   in  denen  er  vielleicht  auch 

•  Sfilfe.  Ein    Roman  au<;  der  Kroschpcr*;pccHvc  vnn  Olto  Jfnlitis  Bierbaum. 
Berlin.  1897,  Schuster  und  l.ttfflcr. 


DEIJTSCIIK   nOciIKR.  263 

Urbildcr  seiner  Anna  Mahr  (in  den  "  Einsamen  Menschen  ") 
traf.  Hier,  wie  bisher  allerorten,  anscheinend  ziellos  und  un- 
fertig.  In  seinen  epischen,  lyrischen  und  dramatischen  Ver- 
suchen  so  kritiklos  und  unklar,  dass  Niemand  vermuten  konnte, 
in  Gerhart  Hauptmann  jemals,  geschweige  so  rasch,  einen  Vor- 
(lenker  und  Vorkiimpfer  des  jiingeren  Geschlechtes  aufstehen 
zu  sehen.  Eine  Romertnigodie,  "Der  Tod  des  Tiberius"  aus 
dem  Jahr  1887,  isl  verschoUen.  Sein  Epos  Promcthidculoos  zog 
or,  gleich  nach  dcr  Veroffentlichung  1885,  aus  dem  Buch- 
handel,  um  es  einstampfen  zu  lassen.  1888  wollte  er  eine  kleine 
Sammlung  von  Gedichten  Das  bunte  Buck  in  einem,  wie  Schlen- 
ther  sagt,  als  Verlagsort  fast  unwahrscheinlichen  Stadtchen  des 
Odenwalds  herausgeben.  Als  der  Text  ausgesetzt,  das  Papier 
aber  noch  nicht  gekauft  war,  fallirte  der  Verleger,  und  Haupt- 
mann erhielt  nur  lose  geheftete  Revisionsbogen  auf  erbarm- 
lichem  Fliesspapier.  In  den  seither  nicht  wieder  in  Buchform 
gesammelten  Versen  finden  sich  aber  nach  Schlenthers  Andeu- 
tungen  und  Proben  nicht  nur  die  Keimzellen  von  "  Hannele  " 
und  der  "Versunkenen  Glocke*':  die  Eingangsworte  deuten 
prophetisch  auf  alle  kommenden  Schopfungen  Hauptmanns  : 

Wie  cine  Windcshiult*  sei  deine  Scclc,  Dichtcr  !  Dcr  leiscste  Haiich 
bc\vc[4c  sic.  Und  ewi^  mCisscn  die  Saitcn  schwiiigcn  im  Atcm  des  Wclt- 
wclis  ;  denn  das  Weltwch  ist  die  Wurzel  dcr  Himmelsschnsucht.  Also 
stclit  deincr  Lieder  Wurzel  bcj^rOiidct  ini  Weh  der  Erde  ;  docfi  ihrv'ii 
Schcitcl  kronet  Himmelslicht. 

Ware  das  "  bunte  Buch "  vor  oder  gleichzeitig  mit  dem 
sozialen  Drama  "Vor  Sonnenaufgang  "  (das  urspriinglich  "  Der 
Saemann "  hiess)  erschienen  —  es  hiitte  Hauptmann  und 
seinen  Leuten  manche  Verkennung  erspart.  Als  Talentprobe 
wirkte  das  Stuck  nur  auf  sehr  Wenige,  vor  Allen  auf  Theodor 
Fontane.  Er  begliickwunschte  den  V^erleger,  ein  so  be- 
deutendes  Werk,  "  die  Erfiillung  Ibsens",  gebracht  zu  haben, 
und  erbot  sich,  es  der  eben  gegriindeten  Freien  Biihnc 
dringend  zu  empfehlen.  Der  Vorstand  dieses  Vereins,  Otto 
Brahm,  erhielt  bald  nachher  mit  einem  kurzen  Schreiben 
Hauptmanns  das  Stiick,  las  es,  und  entschloss  sich  sofort, 
"  Vor  Sonnenaufgang "  aufzufiihren.  Nach  der  allerersten 
Vorstellung  der  Freien  Biihne,  die  mit  Ibsens  **  Gespenstern  " 
eroffnet  wurde,  vereinigten  sich  die  Aktiven  mil  dtMi  Sch4vi' 
spielern  zu  einem  Sie^csnuihle, 


264  COSMOPOLIS. 

Hans  von  BOlow,  Paul  Lindau.  Erich  Schmidt  warcn  dabei.  Auch 
eiii  Unhekannter  war  dalxi  :  sehr  blond,  sehr  bleich,  sehr  schlank.  schr 
jinig,  sehr  still,  don  fliissigen  Tafelfrcudcn  giin/lich  abgcncigt.  Scinen 
Xanicn  hat  ten  die  Wcnigsten  schon  gchort  ;  uns  selbst  war  diescr  Mensch 
erst  seit  wenig  Tagen  bckannt.  Kr  war  anf  dcr  Frcien  Biihne  dor  niichste 
dran.  Tut's  nicht,  warnten  wolmcinende  Frcunde.  Verderbt  Euch  nicht 
den  guten  Anl'ang,  nieinte  Paul  Lindciu,  dcr  damals  durch  seine  Kritikcn 
im  Berliner  Tageblatt  Einfluss  auf  unsere  Passiven  hattc  und  ihn  bald 
gegen  die  Frcie  Bnhnc  stark  ausmOnzte.  Wir  schliigen  den  guten  Rat 
in  die  Winde.     Denn  dieser  Gerhart  Hauptmann  kani  uns  sehr  gelegen.* 

Das  klingt  heute  so  selbstverstandlich,  wie  Hauptmanns 
stolzbescheidener  Dank  vom  26.  Oktober  1889  an  die  Leiter 
des  Vereins  Freie  Biihne,  ^*  in  Sonderheit  die  Herren  Otto 
Brahm  und  Paul  Schlenther.  Mochte  es  die  Zukunft  er- 
weisen  —  so  heisst  es  dort  —  dass  sie  sich,  indem  sie  klein- 
lichen  Bedenken  zum  Trotz  einem  aus  reinen  Motiven  heraus 
entstandenen  Kunstwerk  zum  Leben  verhalfen,  um  die  deutsche 
Kunst  verdient  gemacht  haben."  Von  hundert  Lesern  sagen 
heute  mindestens  achtzig  Ja  und  Amen  zu  diesem  Satze. 
Dazumal  gehorte  nicht  alltaglicher  Mannesmut  zu  dem 
Wagestuck, 

Leider  lag  —  nach  Paul  Schlenthers  Kriegsgeschichtc  dcr  Freien 
Bnhnc  —  *•  Vor  Sonnenaufgang  "  bci  Buchhandlern  aus.  Bald  ging  in 
Kncipcn  und  Kaftcchausern  ein  Hauncn  von  Tisch  zu  Tisch  :  etwas 
Furchtbares  sei  im  Wcrk...  Das  Lcssingtheatcr  mit  scinen  1000  Platzeii 
geniigte  nicht  dcr  Nachfrage.  Nie  hat  es  cine  stiirmischere  VorstcUung 
gcgebcn  als  diese  Sontags-Matindc  ...  Als  sich  im  vorzflglichen  letzteu 
Akt  Arzt  und  Gatte  um  die  nebenan  wimmcrndc  WOchnerin  sorgen, 
die  auf  dcr  Btihnc  aber  nicht  wimmcrte,  schwang  mitten  im  Parkett  ein 
unpraktischer  Arzt  die  eigens  dazu  mitgcbrachte  Geburtszange  durch  die 
Luft ...  Mitten  im  tosenden  Larm  eroberte  sich  der  Dichter,  der  tapfer 
und  scheinbar  kaltblutig  standhielt,  immcr  wiedcr  sein  Recht.  Es  ging 
von  ihm  ein  Zauber  aus,  der  vor  dem  Aeussersten  bewahrte  ...  Andern 
Tages  Hogen  die  Zeitungsblatter  ins  Land.  An  der  Spitzc  der  monUischen 
EmpOrung  schriebcn  Frcnzel  und  Lindau.f 

Ich  habe  die  Entrustungs-Ausbriiche  dieser  Kritiker  nicht 
gelesen,  und  gedenke  in  keiner  Weise  ihre  Partei  zu  nehmen  ; 
ich  vviederholevielmehr  nochmals  den  Dank,  den  alle  Freunde 
gedeihlicher  Verjungung  des  deutschen  Theaters  Fontane, 
Brahm  und  Schlenther  fiir  die  rechtzeitige,  gefahrvolle  For- 
derung  Gerhart  Hauptmanns  dauernd  schulden  ;  ich  bewun- 
dere  die  Entschlossenheit,  mit  der  sie  die  Fenster  unserer 
Schauspielhiiuser  einwarfen,   um   "etwas   wie    einen  frischen 

*  Paul  Schlcuihcr.    Die  Frcie  Biilnic,     "  Pan."  H.  Jahrgan?,  i.  Heft.    Juli  1896. 
t  Ibid.     "Pan."  11.,  Heft  i.,  S.  29. 


DEUTSCHE   BOCHER.  265 

Luftstrom,  sjigeii  vvir  aus  dem  zwanzigsten  Jahrhundert,  herein- 
schlagen  zu  lassen."  Nach  dem  deutschen  Sekt  jener  Tage, 
nach  all  den  faden  Philister-  und  Verdauungsstucken  von 
Lindau,  L'Arronge,  Blumenthal,  Schontan  und  Genossen 
wirkte  "  Vor  Sonnenaufgang "  mit  all  seinen  Bitternissen 
als  scharfes  Heilkraut.  Der  Widerstand  gegen  den  Einbruch 
des  Naturalismus  griff  indessen  weit  hinaus  uber  die  Ge- 
schfiftsleute  des  deutschen  Theaters.  Er  vvarb  seine  Kern- 
Iruppen  im  Kreise  der  Goethe-,  Schiller-  und  Wagner- 
Gemeinde  :  Tatsachen,  die  Schlenther  in  folgenden  Auflagen 
seines  Buches  nicht  nur  feststellen,  sondern  mit  seinem 
gesunden  Menschenverstand  eingehender  erklaren  soil.  Denn 
ware  es  nicht  das  allergrosste  Wunder  gewesen,  wenn  soziale 
Dramen  wie  "  Vor  Sonnenaufgang "  ohne  Widerspnich 
geblieben  waren  ?  Bleibt  es  nicht  eine  der  ratselhaftesten 
Erscheinungen  in  der  Geschichte  deutscher  Sitte  und  Dich- 
tung,  dass  Schiller  vor  der  Schlacht  von  Jena  "  Die  Jungfrau 
von  Orleans "  und  *'  Wilhelm  Tell "  schrieb,  wahrend  nach 
der  Schlacht  von  Sedan,  in  den  Tagen  Bismarcks  und  Moltkes, 
die  bahnbrechenden  jungeren  Talente  statt  Jubeltonen  nur 
Wehrufe  und  Klagelaute  iiber  die  Lippen  brachten  ?  Wider- 
sacher  der  neuen  Richtung  waren  einseitig  genug,  alle  Schuld 
dem  deutschen  Erbiibel  der  Auslanderei  zuzuschieben,  den 
Einflussen  und  Nachwirkungen  von  Tolstoj  und  Zola  ;  philo- . 
sophisch  und  sozialistisch  gerichtete  Kopfe  machten  andere 
Zeit-  und  Geistesstromungen,  Schopenhauer,  Darwin  und 
Marx  verantwortlich  fiir  die  neue  Schule  ;  ganz  Unbefangene 
wie  Fontane,  redeten  endlich  von  der  "  Erfiillung  Ibsens." 
Das  Wort  gilt  meines  Erachtens  nicht  einmal  fur  Hauptmanns 
Erstlingsdramen,  noch  weniger  fiir  seine  spatere,  reiche 
Entwicklung.  Gewiss  1  Auch  Hauptmann  hat  von  den 
"  Gespenstern,"  "  Rosmersholm,"  der  "  Wildente  "  u.  s.  w. 
gelernt.  Und  wenn  wirklich  am  20.  Marz  1898  zum  70. 
Geburtstag  Ibsens  deutsche  Junger  und  Freunde  des  nordischen 
Dichters  sich  in  Christiania  Stelldichein  geben  sollten  ;  oder 
wenn  an  Stelle  eines  praktischen,  aber  niichternen  Eildampfers 
wenigstens  ein  Festblatt  der  Miinchner  "  Jtigend "  diesen 
Huldigungszug  iibers  Meer  tragen  sollte  —  satirisch  auf  einem 
Gespenster-    oder    Narrenschiff,     oder    phantastisch    wie    in 


266  COSMOPOLIS. 

Cervantes'  Reise  nach  devi  Pamass  auf   einer   Prachtgaleere, 
die  vom  Kiel  und  der  Ruderbank  bis  zur  Mastspitze  nur  aus 
Versen  ohne  die  leiseste  Beimischung  von  Prosa  gebaut  war — 
dann  darf  am  allerwenigsten  der  just  halb  so  alte  35-jahrige 
Gerhart  Hauptmann  fehlen.    Denn  Ibsen  wirkte  unbestreitbar 
auf  ihn,  nur  wirkte  er  nicht  anders  auf  ihn  wie  ein  Original  auf 
ein  zweites  Original.     Die  Urmotive  von   Hauptmanns   Dicli- 
tungen  wi!rzeln  ganz  anderswo  :  in  der  schlesischen  Heimat, 
ihrem   Bauernschlag  und  Weberelend,  ihrem  Volkshumor  und 
ihrer  unaustilgbaren  Religiositat.     Es  sind  nicht  alle  frei,  die 
ihrer  Ketten  spotten.     Mag  immerhin  ein  Nachfahr  des  glau- 
bensfesten  Webers   Hilse  seinen   Unglauben  so  kraftvoll   vor 
der  Welt  betatigen,  wie  dieser  seine  Gottergebenheit :  theoio- 
gische  Grundanschauungen  wird  er  niemals  voUig  los.     Sie 
durchwalten  auch  Gerhart  Hauptmanns  Fiihlen  und  Schaffen  : 
sein  oben  wiederholtes  einleitendes  Wort  zum  "bunten  Buch  " 
—  "  das  Weltweh  ist  die  Wurzel  der  Himmelssehnsucht "  - 
liegt  durchaus  im  Bereich  kirchlicher  Anschauung.     Und  alle 
Greuelmalerei,   jede    dramatische    Zorn-    und    Gleichnisrede 
wider   die   Verderbtheit    und   Verworfenheit    aller    siindigen 
Kreatur  findet  Vorahnungen  und  Gegenstiicke  in  mittelalter- 
lichen   Beichtspiegeln,   in   evangelischen    Busspredigten    und 
streng  protestantischen  —  noch  grimmiger  als  "  Vor  Sonnen- 
aufgang  "  wider  Sauferfamilien  eifcrnden       Volksschriften  von 
Gotthelf,  zumal  in  der  urnaturalistischen  Geschichte  "Wiefunf 
Madchen  erbarmlich  im  Branntwein  umkommen,"     Die  Erde 
ist  ein  Jammerthal :  das  lehren  ubereinstimmend  auf  das  Jen- 
seits  vertrostende  Seelsorger  und    am    Jenseits  verzweifelnde 
Naturalisten.     Aus  solchen  Grundstimmungen  erklart  sich  die 
Herbheit  der  Satiriker  und  Moralisten  unsrer  jungsten  Littera- 
tur.      Und  aus   tiefsitzenden    Schaden    unseres    ofFentlichen 
Lebens  ergibt  sich  der  verzeihliche  Ungestum  ihrer  Angriffe. 
Wer  darf  es  wagen,  mit  Sozialisten  und  Naturalisten  zu  hadern, 
wenn  er  sieht  und  hort,  wie  viel  ein  Freund  Treitschkes,  ein 
Monarchist   und    Patriot,   ein    selbstandiger    Kopf    von    der 
Bedeutung  des  friiheren  Reichsgerichts-Rates  Oito  Mittelstadt 
gegen  die  heutigen  Zustande  auf  dem  Herzen  hat?*      Und 

•  Vor  der  Flut.      Scchs  Briefe  /ur  dciitschtn  Polilik  der  Gej;»c!uvail.      \u\\ 
Otto  Mittelstadt,    ;.— 6.  Tauscnd.    Leipzig,  Hir/cl,  1897. 


DEUTSCHE   BOCHER.  267 

dennoch  mochten  wir  nicht  verzagen.     Und  dennoch  glauben 
und  hoffen  wir,  dass  Gerhart  Hauptmann   und   die  deutsche 
Dichtung   noch    lange    nicht    ihr    letztes    Wort    gesprochen 
haben.      Er  hat  sich   als    Landsmann    des  Angelus   Silesius 
bewahrt.      Er  hat  sich    aber    auch    als    Landsmann   Gustav 
Freytags  eingefiihrt.     Man  hanselt  die  Familie  Piepenbrinck 
heut   nicht   mehr   iin    ''  Konrad    Bolz-Ton "  :    man   ist    aber 
gewiss  kein   Menschenfresser,    nicht   einmal    ein  Simson  der 
PhiHster,   wenn    man    so    urgemiitliche    Kernmenschen    wie 
die    Strahlers    und    die     alten    Vockerats     auf     die     Beine 
stellt.     Der    Stimme    des    Gewissens    und    dem    Drang   der 
Zeit    gehorchend,    hat    er     Bauern-    und     Weber-Aufstande 
verewigt  in   Schopfungen,  die  den  Vergleich   mit   M6rim6es 
Jacquerie  herausfordern  und  aushalten  und  nicht 'verschwin- 
den  neben  unvergleichlich  Grosserem  :  den  Metzler-Scenen  in 
Gotz,  dem  Aufruhr  John  Cades.    Nun  diese  Taten  getan  sind, 
wird  er  sie  nicht  wiederholen.     Die  Zeit  will  Neues,  Grosses. 
Sie  erwartet  ein  Dichtergeschlecht,  das  Kriegstaten  und  Helden 
des  Zeitalters  von  Bismarck  mit  lessingischem  Optimismus  und 
Menzelscher  Energie   behandelt.      Sie  sehnt  sich  nach  dem 
dritten  Reich.     Sie  setzt  darum  auch  stolze  Hoffnungen  auf 
die  Zukunft  Gerhart  Hauptmanns,  eingedenk  der  Engelsworte 
seines   Hannele :    "  Wir   bringen   ein  erstes  Griissen,   durch 
Finsternisse  getragen.*' 

III. 

Wenig  Raum  haben  und  wenig  Raum  brauchen  wir  ftir  eine 
Jieihe  guter  Weihnachtsbiicher,  die  wirksamer  als  jedes  Wort 
lies  Lobes  und  Preises  der  einfache  Hinweis  auf  den  Titel 
empfiehlt.  Das  gilt  zumal  von  zwei  Munchner  Dichtergaben. 
Wilhehn  Hertz  beschenkt  uns  mit  einer  poetischen  Erneu- 
erung  des  Parzival  von  Wolfram  von  Eschenbach*  die  dem 
schwabischen  Poeten  weit  iiber  den  Kreis  seiner  romanistischen 
und  germanistischen  Fachgenossen  dankbare  Leser  gewinnen 
wird.  Er  verdeutscht  und  modernisirt  mittelalterliche  Stoffe 
und  Weisen  so  gliicklich,  wie  kein  Zvveiter  unter  den  Leben- 
den :  Zeuge  dessen  seine  lange  nicht  genug  verbreiteten,  im 
"  Spielmannsbuch  "  gesammelten  Novellen  in  Versen  ;  Zeuge 

*  gotta,  Stuttgart,  1898. 


268  COSMOPOLIS. 

dessen  seine  Uebcrtruguiig  von  Gottfried  von  Strassburgs 
"Tristan  und  Isolde."  Zeuge  dessen  nun  auch  sein  Parzival, 
an  den  er  ein  Stiick  seines  Lebens  gesetzt  hat.  Dem  Text  der 
Dichtung  gesellt  er  Erlauterungen ;  er  gibt  eine  Sagenge- 
schichte  von  Parzival  und  dem  Gral,  die  als  Muster  gelehrter 
Untersuchung  und  zugleich  als  Muster  wissenschaftlicher 
Prosa  gelten  darf. 

Gleichen  Kennersinn  und  Kiinstlerfleiss  bewahren  Blatt  fur 
Blatt  Paul  Heyscs  Neiic  i^cdichte  mid  Ju^endliedcr*     Sie  um- 
spannen   einen    Zeitraum  von    50   Jahren.     "  Jugendsunden " 
wird   mit   dem    Prologisten   Heyse  nicht   leicht   ein   Anderer 
seine     1847   entstandenen   Verse    aus    dem   "  Jungbrunnen " 
nennen  :    Jugendlust   und    Jugendlaune  jeder   Empfangliche 
desto  froher  in  Heyses  (aus  dem  Winter  1896/97  stammender) 
"  Hauspoesie,"  vor  alJem  in  seinen  allerliebsten    Neckereien 
seiner      vielbesungenen,     vielgeliebten      Frau      willkommen 
heissen,    Jugendfrische   und  Jugendbegeisterung  adelt  seinen 
Festgruss  zu   Gottfried    Kellers    70.  Geburtstag    und    seinen 
Gliickwunsch  fiir  Fontane,  in  dem  er  zugleich  seinen  ersten 
Besuch   des   sagenverklarten    "Tunnels  uber  der   Spree"    in 
lieblicher  Genremalerei  festhiilt.     Jugendlicher  Uebermut  und- 
Ueberschwang  kehrt  sich  in  iiberscharfen  Spottversen  wider" 
Ibsens    nordischen    Nebel,    Hauptmanns    Symbolismus,   die 
Dusseldorfer  Heine-Hetze  u.s.w.  —  wolgemerkt  niemals,  selbst 
im  heftigsten  Ausfall  des  hasslichen  Tons  fahig,  der  Detlev  v 
Liliencrons  kunterbuntes  Epos  Poggfted^  und  dessen  Rache 
krieg  gegen  missliebige  Rezensenten  entstellt.     Die  Krone  de 
Sammlung  bleibt  aber  das  Widmungsgedicht,  die  Zueignun 
an  Heyses  vor  20  Jahren  im  Knabenalter  geschiedenen  Sohnv- 
Wilfried.     Der  geliebte  Tote  steigt  vor  ihm   auf,  nicht  mehr^ 
das  Kind  von  ehedem,  "ein  Jiinglings-Angesicht,  im  Lebens^ — 
ernst  schon  eingeweiht : 

Xun  wir  getrcnnt  fiir  iinnuT  sind, 
luinn  ich  im  (iciste  nur  Dir  nahn, 
Doch  all  nicin  Tagwcrk,  tciires  Kind, 
1st  ininier  auch  fiir  Dich  getan. 
Dir  hracht  ich  stets  das  Beste  dar 
Von  meincn  Lcbenscrntcn  alien, 
Und  wenn  ein  Work  vollcndet  war, 
Fraj^t  ich  niich  :  wiird'  es  ihm  j^cfallen  ? 

*  Herliii,  Wilhclm  Hcrt/,  18^7.  t  Berlin,  Scliusler  und  LofHer,  1896. 


DEUTSCHE   BtTCHER.  269 

So  macbtig  hervorbrechende  Gemiitslaute  schlagt  Herman 
Grimm  kaum   jemals   an.*      Was   er   einer    seiner   Gestalten 
nachsagt,   trifft   ihn   selbst :  *'  Der  Ton  seiner  Stimme  klang 
gleichgiltig  ;  er  war  ein  zarter  stiller  Mensch,  und  wenn  ihn 
etwas  tief   bewegte,    so  musste   es   gemessen    werden,  denn 
er  wurde  keine  Worte  gefunden  haben,  wenn  er   sich  dem 
Gefiihl  ganz  hingegeben  hatte."     Ueberwaltigt    ihn  und  seine 
Helden  einmal  die  Empfindung,  dann  bemachtigt  sich  audi 
des  kuhleren  Lesers  eine  Riihrung,  wie  sie  sonst  nur  noch  der 
Schluss  von  Goethes  Geschwistcrn  ausiibt.     Unverkennbar  hat 
auch  Art  und    Kunst   Goethischer   Erzahlung    auf  Grimms 
novellistische  Art  eingewirkt.    Zweimal  nur  wahlt  er  stofflich 
aufregende    Begebenheiten,    seltsame    anekdotische    Muster- 
falle  und  bcidemale  spielen    in   diesen  Rococo-Stiicken  Ita- 
liener    und    Franzosen    ("Cajetan"    und    "Die    Sangerin") 
Hauptrollen.     Wo  Grimm  deutschen  Menschen  und  Dingen 
sich   zuwendet,  geht    er    von   den    allereinfachsten    Alltags- 
geschichten  aus.      Im  *'  Kind  "  wird  ein  iibereiltes  Verlobnis 
gel5st ;    im   "  Landschaftsmaler  "  .  schlagt    die    auf brennende 
Liebe  eines  Feriengastes  zur  Braut  eines  Anderen  bei  seiner 
jahen  Flucht  in  einer  hohen  Fiamme  empor.    Wie  tief,  w4e 
warm  und  wahr  ist  aber  jede  Regung   mitgelebt,  wie   sanft 
das  Neigen  von  Herzen  zu   Herzen  in  den  zartesten  Schwin- 
gungen  mitempfunden,  wie  bescheiden  die  Kunst  geiibt,  "  alle 
Kunst  zu  verbergen."     Wie  wol  wird  uns  in  dieser  zeitlosen 
Welt  des  Friedens,  unter  diesen  Adelsnaturen  von  grossartiger 
Aufrichtigkeit.      Doppelt    abstechend   wirkt   in  solcher    Um- 
gebung    "  Das  Abenteuer/'   das   Frauenbildnis  einer  Schau- 
spielerin,   die   in   rasender   Begehrlichkeit    nach    Glanz    und 
Reichtum  keinen   Preis  zu  hoch  halt  fiir  die  Erfiillung  ihrer 
Wiinsche.     Vor  die  Wahl  gestellt  zwischen  Sudermanns  viel- 
geruhmter  Alma  und  Grimms  Julie,  wird  der  Menschenkenner 
beide  Frauennaturen  gleich  lasterhaft,  der  Kunstfreund  Grimms 
Portrat  minder    plebejisch,   doch    nicht    weniger   lebenstreu 
ftnden. 

Fernab  von  so  zwiespaltigen  Naturen  fiihrt  uns  der  gott- 
liche    Philister    W,    H.    Riehl   in   seineni    ersten    und    letzten 

•  XiirUcii  viMi  Jlirniiiu  iinmiii.      Dritlc  vcnnchrte  AiiHagc.     Berlin,  Hcrl/, 
1897. 


270  COSMOPOLIS. 

Roman  Etit  f^auzcr  Mann*     Der  Siebziger  hat  das  Buch  einer 

Freundin   zugeeignet,   "  die   sich   gem   in   guter   Gesellschaft' 

bewegt,  auch  wenn  sie  einen   Roman  liest."     Er  will  nichts 

gemein  haben  mit  den  Thoren,  die  "  nur  jenen  Kunstgenuss 

geniessenswert  finden,  der  zugleich   ein   noch  viel   grosseres 

Stuck  Kunstqual  in  sich  schliesst."      Solchen   Ideen  zuliebe 

geleitet   uns   Riehl    in   eine    Kleinstadt    seiner    nassauischen 

Heimat.     Dort  bekehrt  er  einen  von  moderner  Ruhelosigkeit 

imd  Reclamesucht  Angekrankelten  zu  gesunder  Pflege  gedie- 

gener    Altertumskunde    zu  tapferer  Selbsthilfe  in  Geschafts- 

noten,  zu    regelrechter  Ehe  mit  einem  hochsinnigen  Weib  ; 

dort   erzieht   er   den    halben   Windbeutel   zu    einem    ganzen 

Mann,  "  denn  zu  einem  ganzen  Mann  gehort  auch  eine  ganze 

Frau."     Die  padagogische  Fabel  ist,  wie  man  sieht,  moglichst 

alt  und  schlicht.     Gleichwol,  oder  ebendarum,  konnte  Riehl 

sich  selbst  keinen  wirksameren   Nekrolog  schreiben  als  diese 

altvaterischen  Variationen  eines  altvaterischen  Themas.    Auch 

im    Roman    hat    er,   wie  zuvor  als   Feuilletonist,   Soziologe, 

Professor,  Musikhistoriker,  Novellist,  Wanderredner  und  Mu- 

seumsdirektor,  den  Mut,  er  selbst  zu  sein.     Getrost  sagt  er  als 

Lobredner  der  alten  Zeit  unserer  neuen  Zeit  sehr  gemiitlich 

und  sehr  ergotzlich  uralte  Wahrheiten.     Als  Stilist  imponirt  er 

durch   die  Ruhe,  mit  der  er  in  unsern  Tagen  der  Schreib- 

apparate   und   Dampfpressen    den    Gansekiel    zu    harmlosen 

Spottereien    ansetzt.      Er    verbliiflft  durch    Paradoxe,  weil  er 

von    der  Grossvaterweisheit  nicht  abgeht.     Er  erscheint  als 

Original,  weil   er  den  Wandel   der   Moden   nicht   mitmacht. 

Und  das  scheinbar  ganz  unmoderne  Buch  des  ausgezeichneten 

Gesellschafters   wird   am    Ende   noch   AUerweltsmode,   denn 

heutzutage    wirkt    nichts    so    neumodisch    als    das  Alleralt- 

modischeste. 

Anton  Bettelheim. 


*  Cotta,  Stuttgart.  t8o8. 


DAS    THEATER    IN    BERLIN. 


Max  Halbe.  "Mutter  Erde."  Drama  in  5  Aufzugcn.  Berlin,  G.  Bondi, 
i«(>8. — Gcorg  Hirschfeld.  "  Agnes  Jordan. "  Schauspiel.  Berlin,  S.  Fischer, 
i^<(>S. — Ludwig  Fulda.  "  Jugendfrcunde."  Lustspiel  in  4  Akten.  Stuttgart, 
Cotta. — Ernst  v.  Wolzogen.  "  Unjamwewe."  Komodie.  Berlin,  Fontane. — 
Hermann  Bahr.  *'  Tschaperl."  Ein  Wiener  Stiick.  Berlin,  S.  F'ischer.— C.  G. 
Reuling.  "Das  Stiiikere."  Berlin,  Fontane. — Max  Dreyer.  "  In  Behandlung.' 
Leipzig,  G.  H.  Meyer. 

Unter  den  neuen  Stiicken,  die  wahrend  des  letzten  Herbstes 
auf  einer  der  vielen  Berliner  Buhnen  aufgefiihrt  worden  sind, 
kommen  fiir  einen  litterarischen  Standpunkt  hochstens  sieben 
in  Betracht.  Davon  wurden  drei  am  Deutschen  Theater 
aufgefuhrt  :  "  Mutter  Erde  "  von  Max  Halbe,  "Agnes  Jordan  " 
von  Georg  Hirschfeld,  "  Jugendfreunde  "  von  Ludwig  Fulda. 
Zwei  andre  Stiicke  kamen  aufs  Lessingtheater  :  "Unjamwewe" 
von  Ernst  v.  Wolzogen  und  "  Tschaperl "  von  Hermann  Bahr. 
Am  Schillertheater  ging  "  Das  Starkere "  von  Carlot  Gottfrid 
Reuling,  und  am  Berliner  Theater  ging  "  In  Behandlung"  von 
Max  Dreyer  vor  sich.* 

AUe  sieben  Autoren  gehoren  zu  jener  Generation,  die  man 
vor  noch  nicht  langer  Zeit  das  griine  Deutschland  nannte, 
und  die  auch  jetzt  noch  den  Anspruch  erheben  darf,  fur  jung 
und  hoffnungsreich  gehalten  zu  werden.  Mit  seinen  43  Jahren 
ist  Wolzogen  der  Aelteste,  mit  seinen  25  Jahren  ist  Hirschfeld 
der  Jungste  unter  den  Sieben.  Die  Andern  balanciren  auf 
der  Mitte  der  Dreissiger,  die  Reuling  bereits  etwas  iiber- 
schritten,  Halbe  noch  nicht  ganz  er^eicht  hat.  Alle  Sieben 
aber  sind  doch  nicht  mehr  so  griin  und  jung,  dass  sie  sich 
nicht  wahrend  der  letzten  zehn  Jahre  schon  auf  der  Biihne 
hervorgetan  hatten.  F*ulda,  Halbe,  Hirschfeld  haben  schon 
^rosse   "  Kassenerfolge "    hintcr    sich.       Wolzogen,    Reuling, 


272  COSMOPOLIS. 

Dreyer  hatteii  eine  tiefere  Teilnahme  des  Publikums  verdienl. 
Nur  Bahr,  ein  munter  flimmerndes  Irrlicht,  hat  auch  auf  dem 
Theater,  das  von  ihm  mehr   kritisch   als   productiv   bedacht 
wild,  bisher  immer  bloss  wunderlich  irrlichtelirt.     Keiner  der 
Sieben  ist  fiir  die  moderne  Wendung  des  deutschen  Dramas 
so  entscheidend  gewesen  wie   Hauptmann  und    Sudermann. 
Aber  alle   Sieben   wurden   von    dieser    Bewegung    ergriffen, 
entrichteten  ihr  einen  reichlichen  Zoll  an  Gut  und  Blut,  und 
die  nachwirkende  Kraft  des  "  konsequenten  Realismus"  lasst 
sich,  im  Grade  verschieden,  an  Allen  beobachten.    Ihre  Stiicke 
zeigen   zunachst   eine   natiirlichere   Bauaii,  als   sie   noch  vor 
zwanzig  Jahren  von  deutschen  Autoren  und  Tantiemedichtern 
beliebt  wurde.     Es  gibt  in  diesen  Stiicken,  die  allesarat  auf 
dem  Boden  des  modernen  deutschen  Lebens  spielen,  keine 
Beiseite  mehr,  keyie  langen  Monologe,  in  denen  der  Sprecher 
nicht    etwa    eine    unaufhaltsam    vordrangende    Empfindung 
ausdruckt,  sondern  dem  Publikum  nur  sagt,  wer  er  ist,  was 
er  getan  hat  oder  zu  tun   gedenkt.      Auch  die  verkappteren 
Anreden  ans  Publikum,  wobei  uberfliissige  Personen  als  blosse 
Horer  oder  Frager  auf  der  Biihne  den  Zuschauer  vertreten, 
vermeidet    man.       Ebenso    vermeidet    man    die    technische 
Plumpheit,  dass  von  verschiedenen  Plaudergruppen  abwech- 
selnd  immer  nur  die   eine  laut  spricht,  wahrend  die  andern 
flustern.      Alle    diese    bretternen     Eselsbriicken     einer    un- 
kilnstlerischen,   theatralischen    Technik    werden   verschmaht. 
Verschmaht    wird    auch    der    glatt    geschliffene,    blitzblanke 
Feuilletonwitz,  der  Hoch  und   Niedrig,  Alt  und  Jung,   Klug 
und  Dumm,  Arm  und  Reich  mit  gleicher  geistreich-gebildeter 
Zunge,  wie  auswendig  gelernt,  im  Briefstil  reden  lasst.     Man 
bemiiht  sich,  die  Sprache  der  einzelnen  Person  nach  ihrem 
Charakter,  ihrem  Geschlecht,  ihrem  Bildungsgrad,  ihrem  Alter 
einzurichten    und    statt    des    geschriebenen   Worts    das    ge- 
sprochene  zu  setzen.     Im  Dialog  ist  damit  endlich  das  frucht- 
barste  und    nachste   Mittel   zum    Individualisiren    gefunden. 
Der  papierne   Stil  des  alteren  deutschen  Lustspiels  ist  einer 
naturlich-lebendigen    Diction   gewichen.      Wenn   diese   Ziele 
einer  wahren   Kunst  nicht  von  Allen  mit  gleicher  Sicherheit 
erreicht  sind,  so  wurde  doch  unter  Meister  Ibsens  Fiihrung 
uberall  nach  ihnen  gestrebt.     Nur  der  jugendliche  Hirschfeld, 


DAS   THEATER   IX    BERLIN.  273 

in  der  charakteristischen  Dialogfiihrung  schon  jetzt  ein 
Meister,  den  darin  bloss  Hauptmann  ubertrifft,  ist  zu  einer 
lockern,  bequemen,  aber  unhaltbaren  Compositionsart  zuriick- 
gekehrt,  die  zwischen  je  zwei  Akte  viele  Jahre  legt  und  uns 
in  jedem  neuen  Akt  vor  eine  neue  Zeit  und  vor  ein  neues 
Leben  stellt.  Man  glaubte  diese  Birchpfeiffermache  durch 
Ibsens  strenge  Kun^,  aus  dem  Moment  heraus  Riickblicke  In 
die  Vergangenheit  zu  geben,  iiberwunden,  und  nun  bringt  sie 
uns  der  Jungste  der  Jungen  wieder. 

Derjenige,   der   im   deutschen    Drama    den    konsequenten 
Realismus  zum  ersten  Mai  zur  tiefsten  dichterischen  Geltung 
brachte,  war  (ierhart  Hauptmann  mit  seinen  ersten  Werken. 
Derjenige,  der  ihn  zur  starksten  und  allgemeinsten  Theater- 
wirkung  brachte,  war   Hermann    Sudermann   im    Hinterhaus 
der"Ehre."    'Hauptmann    ist   inzwischen    mit   der  "  Versun- 
kenen    Glocke"    in    Boecklins    buntes    Mythenland  gezogen. 
und  hat  Verse  teils  im  Stil  des  alten  Goethe,  teils  im  Stil  des 
jungen    Shakespeare    gedichtet.      Sudermann    hat    sich    aus. 
seinem    Hinterhaus  und   seiner    Heimat    ins   Stoffgebiet   des. 
Neuen     Testaments     gefliichtet.      Unsere     wackern     Sieben 
dagegen  sind  nach   dem  friihern  Beispiel   jener   Starkern  in 
ihrem  Land  geblieben,  um  sich  am  Hier  und  Jetzt  redlich  zu 
nahren.     Sie  Alle  folgten   der   Mahnung :    "Sieb,   das  Gute, 
liegt  so  nah  !  "     Wie  das  Gluck,  so  ist  auch  die  Poesie,  die  ja 
nichts  andres  ist  als  ein  Gluck,  immer  da.     Ob  in  der  Ebene 
Oder  im  Hochgebirg,  ob  in  der  Stadt  oder  auf  freiem  Feld,  ob 
im  Norden  oder  im  Suden,  Poesie  liegt  iiberall.     Nur  mussder* 
Rechte  kommen,  der  dieses  Gliick   ergreifen   lernt.      Es   zu. 
Jernen,  haben  die  Sieben  ernsdich  gewollt. 

Max  Halbe,  der  aus  dem  Landvolk  der  Weichselniederungen 

-stammt,   schildert   meisterhaft  einen  dort  ubiichen   landlich-^ 

«ittlichen  Leichenschmaus,   bei  dem  die  Leidtragenden  voni 

Weinen  sehr  bald  zu  den  Weinen  gelangen,  und  der  in  hochst 

weltlicher,  durch  Speis  und  Trank  gehobener  Stimmung  aufs 

Vergnugteste  endet.     Georg  Hirschfeld,  der  Judenschaft  des 

Berliner  Ostens  entsprossen,  schildert  ohne  jede  Rassenpietirt 

xias  Milieu  einer  israelijischen  Kleinbiirgerfamilie   mit  ihrem 

Prunken  auf  aussern  Schein,  ihrer  schmierigen  Eleganz,  ihrer 

junverniinftigen  Kindererziehung,  ihrer  Gefuhlsplattheit,  wober 
VOL.  IX. — xo.  XXV.  jy^ 


274  COSMOPOLIS. 

eine  edlere,  zartere  Natur,  wie  die  Judin  Agnes  Jordan,  ver- 
kummern  muss.  Der  Oberosterreicher  Hermann  Bahr,  der 
schon  seit  geraumer  Zeit  in  Wien  eine  Rolle  spielt,  beleuchtet 
mit  ironischem  Witz  und  doch  nicht  ohne  Liebe  einige  Winkel 
des  alten  Wiener  Pfahlburgertums  und  einige  anstossige 
Ecken  des  Wiener  Kunstlerruramels.  Carlo!  Reuling,  der 
Mann  aus  dem  Odenwald,  fiihrt  uns  durch  die  Enge  eines 
Pfarrhauses  in  diesem  abgeschiedenen  Gebirgslandchen,  an 
dem  der  grosse  Strom  des  Lebens  unaufhorlich  voriiberzieht, 
wie  der  Strom  des  Rheines,  nah  und  doch  nie  es  beruhrend. 
Max  Dreyer,  der  Mecklenburger,  lasst  uns  ein  bisschen  Ostsee- 
wind  um  die  Ohren  blasen  ;  man  merkts,  dass  man  im  Lande 
•st,  wo  die  alten  Schiffskapitane  den  Grog  lieben  und  die  alten 
Haushalterinnen  denken  :  "  Morgen  ist  auch  noch  ein  Tag." 

Wahrend  diese  fiinf  Autoren  ihre  Stoffe  localisirten  und  mit 
einem  Hauch  ihrer  Heimat  umgaben,  spielen  Fuldas  und 
Wolzogens  Komodien  schon  mehr  im  grossen  Ueberall  und 
Nirgend.  In  solchen  Fallen  sagt  der  moderne  Buhnenautor  : 
Oct  der  Handlung,  Berlin  !  Aber  in  Kuldas  munterem  Lust- 
spiel  ist,  wenn  auch  kein  locales,  so  doch  ein  soziales  Milieu 
geschaffen,  das  Milieu  des  flotten,  behaglichen  Junggesellen- 
tums,  dessen  freundschaftlicher  Untergrund  durch  Heiraten 
erschiittert  wird.  Wolzogen  hingegen  hat  von  alien  Sieben 
diesmal  am  leersten  ins  Blaue  gegriffen.  Nach  seinem  kost- 
lichen  ''  Lumpengesindel,"  seiner  fein  angelegten  "  Daniela 
Weert"  durfte  dieser  hochbegabte,  aber  lassig  arbeitende 
Dichter  uns  das  stillose  "  Unjamwewe  "  nicht  mehr  bieten, 
Gerade  er  ist  unter  den  Sieben  der  ausgesprochenste  Vertreter 
und  Bringer  germanischen  Humors,  aber  obwol  keiner  der 
sechs  Andern  ein  Meisterwerk  schuf,  so  hat  sich  Wolzogen 
doch  von  ihnen  alien  diesmal  iiberflugeln  lassen.  Man  muss 
schon  seinen  lustigen  Musikantenroman  "  Der  Kraft-Mayr " 
lesen,  um  ihn  auf  alter,  etvvas  wilder  Hohe  zu  iinden. 

Da  das  gute  klassische  Kunstwort  "  Komodie  "  wieder  mehr 
in  Aufnahme  gekommen  ist,  so  hatte  auch  jedes  dieser 
sieben  Stiicke  ein  Recht,  sich  Komodie  zu  nennen,  obwol  bei 
Reuling  und  bei  Bahr  Scheiden  weh  tut  und  Halbe  gar  mit 
dem  Doppelselbstmord  unglucklich  Liebender  fackelt.  Aber 
iiberall  sind   Lebensverhiiltnisse,  der  Menschheit  Kampf  und 


DAS   THEATER   IN    BERLIN.  275 

Krakehl  unter  einen  Gesichtspunkt  gestellt,  von  dem  aus  der 
uberlegene  Betrachter,  durch  Mitleid  nur  fluchtig  bewegt,  von 
Fiirchi  fast  garnicht  angepackt,  ironisch  driiber  lacheln  darf. 
Wo  dieses  Lacheln  Ziel  des  Autors  war,  liegt  viel  Wolgelun- 
genes.  Wo  sich  der  Autor  eine  herbere  Wirkung  versprach,. 
liegt  immer  Schvvache.  Wenn  bei  Reuling  im  Odenwalder 
Pfarrhaus  die  steifleinene  Pastorsbraut  sieht,  wie  ihr  junger 
Verlobter  in  Talar  und  Baffchen  zum  Begrabnis  einer  Selbst- 
morderin  schreitet,  wenn  sie  ihm  handeringend  nachjammert, 
weil  sie  ihn  nun  verloren  hat,  —  so  kann  uns  das  nicht  sehr 
erschuttern,  denn  wir  haben  dieser  doctrinar  erdachten  Person 
nicht  tief  genug  ins  fuhlende  Herz  gesehen.  Wenn  bei  Halbe- 
das  Liebespaar  Nachtens  auf  flinken  Rossen  zu  einem  stillen 
Hause  jagt,  um  dort  in  einem  stillen  Zimmer  zu  geniessen,  bevor 
der  andre  Morgen  sie  vergiftet  findet,  so  furchten  wir  uns  nicht 
so  sehr,  sondern  wunschen  den  Beiden  recht  herzlich  "  Gute 
Nacht."  Wenn  dann  uber  der  alten  Mutter  Erde  und  uber 
dem  spat  genossenen  Liebesgliick  eine  junge  Sonne  auf- 
leuchten  wird,  so,  hoffen  wir,  werden  die  Leutchen,  zu  Besserm 
bekehrt,  wieder  ihre  flinken  Rosse  satteln  und  ihren  beiden 
unliebsamen  Ehehiilften  einfach  durchbrennen  ;  zu  der  Ein- 
sicht,  dass  hier  Ehebruch  in  Selbstmord  ausgehn  muss,  fehlt 
die  tragische  Notwendigkeit.  Am  wenigsten  konnte  oder 
woUte  vielleicht  Bahr  davon  uberzeugen,  dass  sein  Tschaperl 
ihrem  obstinat  gewordenen  Manne  auf  Zeitlebens  davon- 
lauft. 

Wahrend  in  diesen  Stucken  mit  Trennung  fur  immer  oder 
Tod  wenigstens  getandelt  wird,  setzt  sich  nicht  nur  das  Scherz- 
spiel  Dreyers,  sondern  auch  das  schwermiitige  Drama  Hirsch- 
felds  ein  altes,  liebes  "  Ende  gut,  Alles  gut "  geradeswegs  zum 
Ziel.  Bei  Dreyer  wird  etwas  gartenlaubenhaft  ein  sogenannter 
Bann  gebrochen  :  was  sich  zu  hassen  schien,  liebtsich  endlich  ;: 
uber  eine  Umarmung  jubelt  man  desto  freudiger,  je  langer  sie 
auf  sich  warten  Hess.  Hirschfelds  Agnes  Jordan,  die  edle, 
schwarmerische,  in  ihren  Idealen  enttauschte  Judin,  hat  als 
Braut,  als  junge  Frau,  als  Mutter  viel  Schweres  durchzu- 
machen  gehabt  ;  um  die  schonsten  Lebensjahre  hat  sie  der 
Gemahl  betrogen,  bevor  sie  diesem  lummelhaften  Schonling 
tieuenubcr  ails  der  blind^n  Liebe  durch  bittere  Eikenntnisser 


276  COSMOPOLIS. 

•und  bose  Krankungen  hindurch  endlich  zur  mild  ob  mensch- 
licher  Schwachheit  lachelnden  Versohnung  gelangte  ;  bevor 
sie  in  diesem  zarten  Matronengefuhl  von  einem  Sohne,  der 
Oeist  ihres  Geistes  und  Herz  ihres  Herzens  ist,  bestarkt  wird. 
Noch  quillt  im  dunklen  Auge  die  Thrane,  noch  liegt  das 
■ergraute  Haupt  weh  versonnen  in  die  Hand  gestutzt,  und  an 
Vergangenes  zu  denken  schmerzt  ;  aber  die  Zukunft  leuchtet 
trostend,  und  der  blonde,  poetische  Kunstlerknabe,  der  aus  den 
Schmerzen  dieser  Frau  geboren  ward,  wird  ihrer  Schmerzen 
Lohn  und  Suhne  sein. 

Auch  Fulda  lasst  am  guteii  Ende  seiner  "J  ugendfreunde  " 
alles  gut  sein.  Zwar  kiihlen  sich  hier  Jugendfreundschaften 
erheblich  ab,  aber  was  liegt  an  Freundschaft,  wenn  Liebe 
kommt.  Zwar  blickt  der  Ahnungsvolle  schaudernd  in  einige 
Pantoffelzukunften  hinein,  aber  ein  sanfter  Zwang  wird  diesen 
Schlingeln  oder  Tolpeln  ganz  gesund  sein,  und  daneben  sieht 
man  zum  trostlichen  Zeichen,  wie  sich  auch  eine  Musterehe 
schliesst,  bei  der  freilich  jenes  Bedenken  nicht  ausbleibt,  das  in 
dem  alten  Wahr-  und  Wehwort  gipfelt :  Lustspiele  enden  mit 
Verlobung,  weil  mit  der  Ehe  das  Trauerspiel  beginnt.  Am 
banalsten  verfuhr  mit  dem  guten  Ende  Wolzogen.  Nach 
iiltester,  odester  Theatermanier  blast  er,  sobald  die  drei 
Theaterstunden  um  sind,  plotzlich  zum  Sammeln,  dictirt  allge- 
meine  Vergebung  der  Siinden,  und  alles  was  kurz  zuvor  noch 
erbost  und  erbittert  war,  ist  im  Handumdrehn  froh  und 
befreundet. 

AUe  sieben  Autoren  sagen  :  Zeit  der  Handlung,  Gegenwart. 
Alle  Sieben  wollten  hineingreifen  ins  voile  Menschenleben,  ins 
deutsche  moderne  Leben.  Die  Hauptfrage  unserer  Zeit 
freilich,  die  soziale  Frage,  wird  vermieden.  Gegensatze  von 
Arm  und  Reich,  wie  sie  in  Hauptmanns  und  Sudermanns 
entscheidenden,  auch  kulturgeschichtlich  bedeutendsten 
Dramen  vortreten,  sind  hier  nirgend  von  Belang.  Desto 
ofter  und  dringlicher  begegnet  die  moderne  Frage  nach  dem 
Rechte  der  Personlichkeit.  Um  Nietzsche  kommt  Keiner 
recht  herum.  Der  Uebermensch  spukt  allerwegen.  Am  deut- 
lichsten  tritt  er  bei  Wolzogen  hervor.     "  Unjamwewe  "  ist  die 

• 

einzige  der  sieben  Komodien,  die  einen  aktiven  Helden  hat. 
Die  iibrigen  sechs  Stucke  leben  vom  Leidenshehdentum,  und 


DAS   THEATER    IN    BERLIN.  277 

das  Uebermenschliche  wird  nicht  Tat,  sondern  bleibt  nur 
Wunsch.  Der  Held  von  "  Unjamwewe "  aber  ubt  Herren- 
moral  und  setzt  sich  durch.  Freilich  ist  er  nicht  bloss  ein 
Tatheld,  sondern  noch  viel  mehr  ein  Maulheld,  der  nicht 
genug  Worte  finden  kann,  um  nachzuweisen  oder  auch  nur 
vorzuschwindein,  was  er  fur  ein  Mordskerl  sei,  und  mit 
welchem  Stolz  er  jenseits  von  Gut  und  Bose  stehe.  Unjam- 
wewe ist  eine  afrikanische  Kolonie  ;  im  Helden  schwebte  dem 
Dichter  der  Afrikafahrer  und  Kolonialpolitiker  Karl  Peters 
vor ;  dieser  Komodienpeters,  welchen  Anhanger  des  wahren 
Peters  iibrigens  anerkannt  haben  sollen,  prugelt  Neger  durch,. 
verfiihrt  kleine  Schauspielerinnen,  verdreht  grossen  Weltdamen 
den  Kopf,  tobt  und  bramarbasirt  und  wirkt  gerade  da,  wo  iha 
der  Dichter  menschlich-liebenswiirdig  zeigen  mochte,  nicht 
naiv  in  seiner  Brutalitat,  sondern  ungeheuerlich  in  seiner 
schwatzhaften  Prahlhanserei  und  wie  eine  misslungene  Parodie 
auf  Nietzsches  Dogma.  Als  echter  Humorist  wollte  Wolzogen 
auch  hier  die  moralischen  Farben  menschlich  mischen,  aber 
zum  Vorschein  kam  nur  etwas  Schmierig-Grauliches.  Wir 
nehmen  Abschied  von  diesem  verungliickten  Stuck  und  hoffen* 
auf  Besseres. 

Auch  bei  Reuling  iritt  das  Recht  der  Personlichkeit  schon* 
im  Titel  hervor.     Dieses  Recht,  zugleich   eine   Pflicht  gegen 
sich   selbst,   ist   "Das   Starkere,"   davS   endlich   nach.  langem,. 
schwachendem  Zweifeln  und   Zagen   einen   jungen,  ernsten,. 
fahigen,    sittenreinen    Mann     tatkriiftig     werden    und    seine 
Fesseln  sprengen    lasst.     Der  arme   Dorfkantorssohn   bekam* 
von    einer    wolhabenden    Waise    das     Geld    zum    Studium- 
Neigung  und   Beruf  zogen  ihn  zu  den  Naturwissenschaften,. 
aber  damit  er  so  bald  wie  moglich  zu  Amt  und  Brot  kommen 
und   seine   Woltaterin    den    hiibschen    Jungen   so   bald   wie 
moglich   heiraten    konnte,   ward    er    Theolog.     Nun   hat   er 
seine  Pfarre  ;  die  Hochzeit  steht  bevor.     Aber  ach  !     Er  ist 
nicht    seinen    Weg    gegangen    und    nicht    an   sein   Ziel   ge- 
kommen.     Er  liebt  nicht  die  Braut,  der  er  alles  "  verdankt  " 
und  die  ihm  durch  Connexionen  im  Priesterstaat  noch  weiter 
vorwarts  helfen  wird,  sondern  er  liebt  ein  armes  Madchen,  das 
seine  Passion  fur  Natur  und  Naturkunde  teilt.     Aus    Dank-^ 
barkeit  will   er   dieser   Liebe  entsagen  ;   sein   Herz,  das  lasst 


278  COSMOPOLIS. 

sich  bezwingen.  Aber  was  sich  nicht  bezwingen  lasst,  sind 
Mannesmut  und  Manneschre.  Als  von  ihm  die  Braut  ein 
Opfer  seiner  Ueberzeugung  verlangt,  als  er  ihr  und  dem  Con- 
sistorio  zu  Gefallen  einer  Selbstmorderin  die  letzte  Ehre 
weigern  soil,  da  bricht  das  Starkere  in  ihm  durch.  Er  geht 
den  Weg,  der  im  Priestcrstaat  nicht  weiter  fiihrt,  den  ersten 
eignen  Weg.  Um  den  Konflikt  ist  ein  enger  Horizont 
gezogen  :  die  beiden  Mildchen,  zwischen  denen  der  Mann 
steht,  sind  schemenhaft  gezeichnet ;  auch  der  Held,  ehe  er 
zum  Helden  wird,  vvirkt  verwaschen,  theoretisch.  Aber  das 
Stiick  ist  eine  redliche,  verstandige  Arbeit ;  man  wunscht  dem 
Autor,  der  einst  mil  seiner  satirischen  Komodie  "  Der  Mann 
im  Schatten"  glucklicher  begonnen  hatte,  dass  auch  er  in  sich 
das  Starkere  finde. 

In  nicht  minder  engen  Verhiiltnissen,  als  sie  das  Pfarrhaus 
im  Odenwald  umgrenzen,  kampfen  in  Max  Dreyers  vorpom- 
merischem  Kustenstadtchen  zwei  junge  Menschen  um  das 
Recht  ihrer  Personlichkeit.  Sie  sind  ihrem  eignen  Willen 
nachgegangen.  Sie  haben  auf  diesem  eignen  Wege  genug 
gelernt,  um  sich  eine  Existenz  schaffen  zu  konnen.  Aber 
diese  Existenz  wird  ihnen  verkummert,  weil  sie  sich  nicht 
in  fremde  Formen  fugen  wollen.  Beide  sind  Arzt.  Der  Eine, 
«in  Prachtkerlchen,  heisst  Lisbeth  und  ist  sogar  Aerztin. 
Beide  treffen  sich  in  ihrer  kleinen  Vaterstadt,  wo  sie  sich  als 
Kinder  mehr  geneckt  als  geliebt  haben,  wieder.  Nach  den 
Auffassungen  der  Kleinstadter  ist  es  anstossig,  dass  ein 
Frauenarzt  unverheiratet  bleibt,  und  noch  anstossiger,  dass  ein 
junges  Madchen  Medizin  treibt.  Beide  werden  daher  nicht 
in  Nahrung  gesetzt.  Man  sollte  denken,  sie  wurden  nach 
dieser  Erfahrung  lachend  das  Biindel  schnuren  und,  tuchtig 
wie  sie  sind,  in  einer  grosseren  Stadt,  wo  solche  Vorurteile 
schon  langst  nicht  mehr  gelten,  ihr  Heil  versuchen.  Aber 
nein  !  Sie  selbst  sind  noch  Kleinstadter  genug,  um  drauf 
•Gewicht  zu  legen,  dass  ihre  Vaterstadt  sie  anerkennt.  Sie 
bleiben,  und,  mitjjden  Vorurteilen  der  Kleinstadt  nun  doch 
rechnend,  raumen  sie  die  Hindernisse  dadurch  aus  dem 
Wege,  dass  sie  miteinander  eine  Ehe  schliessen.  Nun  ist 
sie  kein  junges  Madchen  mehr,  nun  ist  er  kein  Junggeselle 
mehr,  nun  bluht  ihr  Weizen.     Aus  dieser  ihrer  Inkonsequenz 


DAS   THEATER   IN    BERLIN.  279 

hat  man  auch  dem  Dichter  den  unbcrechtigten  Vorwurf  der 
Inkonsequenz  gemacht.  Der  Dichter  aber  woUte  aus  den 
Beiden  gar  keine  konsequenten  und  prinzipiellen  Herren- 
naturen  schaffen.  Am  wenigsten  aus  Fran  Lisbeth.  Sie  hat 
ihren  Beruf  erwjihh,  wie  eine  Krankenpflegerin  den  ihrigen. 
Sie  ist  dabei  ganz  Weib  geblieben.  Das  Weibliche  und  das 
Madchenhafte  in  ihr  ist  so  stark,  dass  sie  weiblich-madchen- 
haft  durch  alle  anatomischen  Sale,  Kliniken  und  Kranken- 
stuben  ging  und  noch  Madchen  blieb,  als  sie  vor  der  Well 
schon  Frau  geworden  war.  Als  man  sie  darin  verdachtigte 
und  anfocht,  krankte  es  sie  bis  zu  Thranen,  bis  zu  echten, 
keuschen  Frauenthranen.  Und  sie  hat  sich  verheiratet,  nur  um 
sicher  zu  sein  und  um  Brot  zu  verdienen.  So  wenigstens 
bildet  sie  selbst  sich's  ein.  In  Wahrheit  neckt  sie  sich  in  die 
Ehe,  weil  sich  liebt,  was  sich  neckt.  Ihrer  Ehe  liegt  doch 
Liebe  zu  Grund,  aber  da  sie  das  von  selbst  nicht  einsehen  will, 
so  muss  sie  erst  'Mn  Behandlung"  genommen  werden.  Erst 
durch  diese  Behandlung  verwandelt  sich  die  Scheinehe  in 
eine  wahre  Ehe.  Die  Hochzeitsnacht  folgt  etwas  spat  der 
Hochzeit.  Schon  der  Titel  "In  Behandlung "  verrat,  dass 
wir  aus  dem  Frauenrechtsdrama  hinubergetreten  sind  ins 
Intriguenlustspiel,  wo  nach  alter  Art  ein  Feldzugsplan 
ausgedacht  und  programmgemass  durchgefuhrt  wird.  Die 
Uebergleitung  geschieht  mit  viel  anmutigem  Witz  und  man- 
chem  scharfen  Scherz.  Aber  das  Ausgedachte  und  Pro- 
grammmassige  wirkt  doch  erkaltend  ;  man  sieht  das  Leben 
nur  von  fern.  Dem  Publikum  gefallt  diese  Komodie  sehr  gut, 
weil  es  sie  fur  ein  lustiges  Theaterstuck  halt.  Sie  ist  mehr 
als  das,  aber  sie  ist  nicht  genug,  um  eine  lebenswahre 
Dichtung  zu  sein. 

Auch  das  Wiener  Tschaperl  des  schnurrigen  Hermann 
Bahr  kommt,  obwol  es  ein  Tschaperl,  d.  h.  ein  Schafchen  ist, 
in  die  Lage,  das  Recht  seiner  Personlichkeit  durchzusetzen. 
Tschaperl  war  ein  gutcs,  molliges,  unselbstandiges,  junges 
Weibchen,  das  in  diirftigen  Litteratenverhaltnissen  seinem 
Mann  kochte,  ilickte,  wusch  und  ihn  in  Mussestunden  durch 
hubsche  Musik  erfreute.  Plotzlich  wird  Tschaperl  eine 
beruhmte  Frau.  Sie  hat  durch  Zufall  eine  Marchenoper 
componirt  ;  diese  Marchenoper  wird  so  beruhmt  wie  Humper- 


28o  COSMOPOLIS. 

dinks  "  Hansel  und  Gretel."  Nun  geriit  Tschaperl  in  den 
grossstadtischen  Theater-  und  Musikstrudel  hinein.  Eben 
weil  sie  ein  Tschaperl  ist,  lasst  sie  sich  willenlos  treiben, 
Eben  weil  sie  eine  hubsche  junge  Frau  ist,  wird  ihr  dieser 
wuste  Schwindel  um  so  gefiihrlicher.  Der  Mann  ist  ausser 
sich  daruber.  Er  fuhh  sich  in  den  Winkel  geworfen.  Da 
auch  er  ein  Tschaperl  ist,  sogar  ein  grosses  Schaf,  behalt  er 
nicht  die  sichere  FYihrung  in  der  Hand,  sondern  macht  ihr  im 
Hause  grjisshche  Scenen,  gewohnt  sich  nach  Wilhelm  Busch's 
Theorie  :  "Wer  Sorgen  hat,  hat  auch  Likor"  das  Trinken  ar> 
und  mochte  schhessHch  hauen.  Da  macht  Tschaperl  vom 
Recht  ihrer  Personlichkeit  Gebrauch  und  geht  aus  dem 
Hause.  Dieser  schiedlich-unfriedliche  Ausgang  entspricht 
nicht  dem  leichten,  flotten,  oft  possenhaften  Ton,  in  welchem 

•  die  amusante  und  eilfertige  Komodie  gehalten  ist ;  wahrschein- 
lich  wollte  der  Autor  selbst  trostend  damit  sagen  :  Morgen 
friih,  wenn  Er  seinen  physischen,  Sie  ihren  seelischen  Rausch 
ausgeschlafen  haben,  ist  Tschaperl  wiederum  bei  seinem 
Lamperl.     Dann  freilich  fragt  man  :  Was  nun  ?     Und  wozu  ? 

'  Wird  sie  nun  weiter  componiren  oder  nicht  ?  Liegt  hier  eine 
jener  alten  Komodien  vor,  in  denen  die  Leute  durch  Erfah- 
rung  kliiger  vverden  ?  Dem  Ganzen  fehlt,  so  hiibsch  Orna- 
mentik  und    Arabesken   sind,   das    rechte    F*undament.     Ob 

•  gerade  der  Dichter  des  ''Tsthaperl"  ein  Recht  hat,  Fuldas 
"Jugendfreunde"  fur  das  "stupideste"  Stiick  zu  erkliiren,  das 
er  kennt,  bezvveifle  ich  und  mochte  zu  diesem  vernichtenden 
Kritikus  Hermann  Bahr,  der  selbst  so  wenig  Unanfechtbares 
dichtet,  warnend  sprechen  :  "  Hirtenknabe,  Hirtenknabe,  dir 
auch  singt  man  dort  einmal "  ! 

Fuldas  "  Jugendfreunde"  haben  wie  alle  friihern  Stiicke 
dieses  geistreichen,  geschmackvoUen,  in  der  Wahl  seiner  StoflFe 
so  gliicklichen,  aber  bei  der  Ausfuhrung  oft  schwachlichen  und 
schwachgemuten,  mehr  spielenden  als  schaffenden  Dichters 
eine  entschiedene  Tendenz  gegen  alles  Nietzschetum.  Fulda 
predigt  gern  ein  Vergniigen  im  Begnugen.  Nur  nicht  hoch 
hinaus  wollen  !  Hubsch  still  halten  und  mit  Bescheidenem 
vorlieb  nehmen  !  Je  hoher  die  Anspruche,  desto  unbefriedigter 
das  Leben  !  Zu  dieser  Weltweisheit  gehort  auch  das  Sich- 
unterordnen,  das  Gehorchen.     Drei  wilde  Junggesellen  werden 


DAS  THEATER   IN   BERLIN.  281 

gezahmt  durch  den  Zvvang  dcr  Ehe.  Sogar  ihre  alte 
Freundschaft  geht  in  die  Briiche,  weil  sich  ihre  Frauen  nicht 
miteinander  vertragen  konnen.  Fulda  racht  sich  am  andern 
Geschlecht  dadurch,  dass  er  sich  auch  iiber  kleine  weibliche 
Schwachen  der  drei  Damen  und  iiber  ihre  Herrschsucht  lustig 
macht.  Aber  die  Blamirtern  sind  doch  die  Manner,  die  einst 
den  Mund  so  voll  nahmen  und  nun  so  kleinlaut  werden 
inussen.  Das  ideale  Paar,  das  dem  Narrenvolkchen  gegenuber 
steht,  und  das  sich  in  gegenseitiger  Freiheit  findet,  ist  leblos 
geblieben.  Ihre  Einigung  zum  Schluss  bevveist  nichts.  Der 
harmlose  Reiz  des  leichten,  unterhaltsamen,  nicht  erheblichen, 
aber  gefalligen  Lustspiels  liegt  im  Grundgedanken  (Freund- 
schaft getotet  durch  Ehe)  und  in  der  satirischen  Laune, 
mit  der  der  Dichter  seine  Narrchen  beiderlei  Geschlechts 
aufzieht. 

AUerdings  liesse  sich  jener  Grundgedanke  auch  sehr  ernst 

wenden.     Jeder  menschliche  Konflikt  hat  seine  komische  und 

seine  tragische  Seite.     Und  heutzutage,  wo  wir  an  die  mora- 

lische   Wirkung  der  blossen    Komodie   nicht  mehr   glauben 

konnen,  wo  andererseits  der  hohen   Tragodie  im  modernen 

Leben  die  Stoffe  fehlen,  ist  unser  Lebensinhalt  vielleicht  nur 

in  tragikomischen  Formen  zu  fassen.     Wenn  un^e  Lustspiel- 

liguren    so    gern   in  die   Caricaturensphare    der    Witzblatter 

geraten,  wenn  unsre  Tragodiengestalten  in  Sprache,  Haltung, 

Ton  so   leicht  gespreizt  und  unwahr  wirken,  so    ist   die   Art 

unsres  Lebens  mit  seinem  kraftigeren  Wirklichkeitsgefuhl  wol 

am  meisten   daran  Schuld.     In  fruheren  Zeiten  glaubte  man 

mehr  an  Zerrbilder  und  auch  mehr  an  Ideale. 

Auch  Hirschfelds  "  Agnes  Jordan  "  ist  eine  Tragikomodie. 
Die  Frau  ist  an  einen  Mann  geraten,  der  in  seinen  Schau- 
tereien  und  Flegeleien  nicht  tragisch  zu  nehmen  ist,  und  den 
doch  gerade  sie  nicht  komisch  nehmen  kann,  denn  einerseits 
ist's  keine  Kleinigkeit,  mit  dem  taktlosen  Hanswurst  verheiratet 
zu  sein,  und  andererseits  empfindet  gerade  diese  Frau  idealis- 
tischer  als  das  heutige  Leben  zu  empfinden  fiir  zweckmassig 
halt.  Ein  reines  Ideal  verkiimmert  an  der  Gewohnlichkeit  des 
Lebens.  Es  verkummert,  aber  es  geht  nicht  unter.  Darin 
liegt  das  Lebenswahrste  dieser  aus  unmittelbarstem  Anschaun 
geholten  Tragikomodie  eines  Dichters,  der  sichs  leider  durch- 


282  COSMOPOLIS. 

aus  diesmal  in  den  Kopf  gesetzt  halte,  seinen  schmalen 
magern,  schon  von  ihm  selbst  verbrauchten  Stoff,  auf  ein 
langes  Brett  weit  ausreckend,  unkiinstlerisch  zu  verarbeiten. 
Hirschfeld  hat  sich  zu  eng  und  zu  streng  an  sein  Gegebenes 
gelialten.  Er  hat,  um  pedantisch  genau  abzuklatschen,  seine 
Phantasie  geflissentlich  lahm  gelegt,  und  das  Ueberflussige, 
das  Gleichgiltige  der  Lebensvorlage  nicht  weggeworfen, 
sondern  mit  in  das  Stuck  hineingestopft.  Wenn  trotzdem  ein 
poetischer,  menschlicher  Odem  nicht  nur  durch  die  Gestalten, 
sondern  auch  durch  das  ganze  Drama  zieht,  so  ist  das  fur  den 
jungen  Dichter  ein  Befahigungsnachweis,  der  ihn  ermutigen 
solhe,  sein  Auge  und  sein  Herz  weitern  und  freiern  Lebens- 
fernen  zu  offnen. 

Agnes  Jordans  Kampf  um  ihr  personliches  Recht  endigt  mit 
wehmutiger    Resignation.      Das  Kiimpferpaar  in  Max  Halhes 
'*  Mutter  Erde "  unterliegt   angeblich    mit    Leib   und    Leben. 
Nur  wcnn  man  sich  vorstellt,  dass  der  junge  Mann  in  seiner 
Ehe  mit  einer  geschlechtlosen  Egoistin,  die    junge    Frau    in 
ihrer  Ehe  mit    einem    plumpen    BUitsauger    vollig    zermurbt 
worden  sind,  ist  ihr  tragischcr  Ausgang,  den  man  auch  feige 
Fhicht  aus  der  Welt  nennen  koniite,  denkbar.     Aber  davon 
zeigt  uns  der  Dichter  zu  wenig.     Sein  Held  wirkt  haltlos  von 
Natur.      Es  ist    mehr    personHche  Veranlagung    als   ausserer 
Schicksalszwang,  was    ihn    audi    auf   dcm  wiedergefundenen 
Boden  der  Heimaterde  nicht  zu  Kriiften  kommen  lasst.     Der 
arme  Teufel  hat  nie  recht  gewusst,  wo  ein  und  aus.     Willenlos 
ist  er  an  seinen  modernen    Blaustrumpf   geraten  ;    willenlos, 
dumpf  sucht  er  von  ihr  weg  die  Mutter  Erde,  deren  Kuss  ihn 
nur  fur  eine  Liebesnacht,  nicht  fur  ein  neues  Leben  antaisch 
zu  kriiftigen  vermag.     Alles  Gestaltliche  und  Zustandliche  im 
Drama  ist,  mit  Ausnahme  des  unheldischen  Helden,  sehr  gut, 
alles  Gedankliche  unklar  und  schwach.      Dem    Stiick  bekam 
des  Dichters  Wille  zum  Tragischen  nicht.      Darum  versteigt 
sich    schliesslich    auch    die    Sprache    dieser    naturlich    sein 
sollenden    Menschen    zu    ekstatischen    Tiraden.       Hatte    der 
Dichter  nicht  nur  das  heimatliche    Milieu    mit   uberlegenem 
Humor     bedacht,    sondern    auch    das     Problematische    der 
Naturen,  die  vom  Schicksal  aufeinander  gewiesen  wurden,  so 
ware  eine  vorziigliche  Tragikomodie  entstanden.     Wie  fur  die 


DAS   THEATER   IN   BERLIN.  283 

andern  Sechs,  so  wird  auch  fiir  Max  Halbe  der  Weg  der 
Zukunft  kein  andrer  sein,  als  der  Weg  in  die  Tragikomodie 
unsres  modernen  Lebens,  das  so  reich  ist  an  geistigen,  sitt- 
lichen,  sozialen  Begriffen  und  Konflikten,  die  keine  Losung 
haben,  das  so  arm  ist  an  *'  grossem,  gigantischem  Schicksal, 
welches  den  Menschen  erhebt,  wenn  es  den  Menschen 
zermalmt,"  das  so  arm  ist  an  dionysischer  Frohlichkeit  und  so 
reich  am  tragikomischen  Abstand  von  Kraft  und  Willen. 

Alle  sieben  Stucke  sind  in  Berlin  uber  Privatbuhnen  gegan- 
gen,  die  mit  grossen  Kassenerfolgen  rechnen  miissen,  wenn 
sie  auf  ihre  Kosten  kommen  woUen.  Wolzogen  fiel  im  Les- 
singtheater  schon  bei  der  ersten  Vorsteilung  ab.  Die  ernsteren 
Stucke  von  Halbe  und  Hirschfeid  haben  sich  im  Deutschen 
Theater,  wo  derartige  moderne  Stucke  immer  die  beste 
Auffuhrung  finden,  leidlich  gehalten.  Ebenso  Reuling  im 
volkstiimlich  billigen  Schillertheater.  Bahrs  "  Tschaperl " 
wurde  im  Lessingtheater  durch  **  Hans  Huckebein/'  einen 
Ulk  von  Blumenthal  und  Kadelburg,  vor  der  Zeit  verdrangt. 
Dieser  Ulk  ubertrifft  an  Zugkraft  auch  Dreyers  Lustspiel  und 
noch  mehr  Fuldas  "  Jugendfreunde."  Unser  Publikum  will  noch 
immer  im  Theater  vor  allem  Andern,  wie  der  Berliner  zu  sagen 
pflegt,  sich  schief  lachen.  Keine  unsubventionirte  Privat- 
buhne  kann  diese  Forderung  der  Masse  fur  die  Dauer 
umgehen.  Vornehm  iiber  alien  unlitterarischen  Anspruchen 
der  Menge  zu  stehen,  ware  nur  dem  koniglichen  Hoftheater 
vergonnt,  das  seine  festen,  sichern  Einnahmen  und  sein  festes, 
sichres  Stammpublikum  hat.  Aber  gerade  das  Berliner  Hof- 
theater konnte  im  Unterschied  von  andern  deutschen  Hof- 
theatern  bisher  keine  Fuhlung  zu  den  feinern  und  starkern 
Talenten  des  jungen  deutschen  Dramas  gewinnen.  Aus 
tausenderlei  hohen  und  niedern  Riicksichten,  die  ausserhalb 
der  Kunst  liegen,  muss  es  sich  mit  unbetrachtlicher  Zahmheit 
und  Zaghaftigkeit  begnugen.  Bis  jetzt  ist  daher  aus  diesem 
Spieljahr  vom  Hoftheater  nur  eine  einzige  nennenswerte  Tat 
zu  melden.  Eine  Tat,  die  deshalb,  weil  sie  so  spat  kommt, 
nicht  weniger  willkommen  sein  darf  :  die  endliche  Einfuhrung 
Ludwig  Anzengrubers  in  den  Spielplan  des  koniglichen  Schau- 
spiels.  Der  grosse  tote  Dichter  selbst  bedarf  dieser  verspateten 
Courfahigkeit  nicht  mehr,  um  auf  die  Hohe  seiner  Bedeutung 


284  COSMOPOLIS. 

gehoben  zu  werden.  Er  ist  schon  liingst  ein  Dichterlord  in 
deutschen  Landen.  Aber  fiir  das  Berliner  Hoftheater  off  net 
die  erfolgreiche  Auffuhrung  des  Anzengruberschen  "  G'wis- 
senswurms"  vom  21.  November  Perspectiven  in  eine  hoff- 
nungsvoUere  Zukunft.  Gegenuber  der  Kraft  und  dem  Mut, 
gegeniiber  dem  Ernst  und  dem  Humor  dieser  Bauernkomodie 
—  wo  bleiben  da  unsere  lieben  sieben  Kleinen  allesamt ! 

Paul  Schlenther. 


P  O  L  I  T  I  S  C  H  E  S 
IN    DEUTSCHER  BELEUCHTUNG 


KIN  WKNDKPUNKT    IM    ENTWICKLUNCiSPROZESS  ICUROPAS  ? 

Am  2o.  November  hielt  Graf  Goluchowski  im  Ausschuss  der 
iingarischen  Delegation  fur  die  auswartigen  Angelegenheiten 
seine  ubliche  grosse  Rede  iiber  die  internationale  Lage.  Sie 
war  auch  in  diesem  Jahre  triefflich  abgewogen,  und  sie  war  in 
hohem  Grade  erfreulich. 

Graf  Goluchowski  hob  hervor,  dass  die  Beziehungen  der 
Staaten  in  Europa  zu  einander  normale,  gute,  zum  Teil  vor- 
trefHiche  seien,  und  dass  die  Friedensburgschaft,  die  der  Drei- 
bund  geschaffen  hat,  eine  wesentliche  neue  Festigung  durch 
eine  uneigennutzige,  jeder  Eroberung  feindjiche  gemeinsame 
Politik  Russlands  und  Oesterreich-Ungarns  auf  der  Balkan- 
halbinsel  erfahren  habe. 

Es  gab  in  der  Tat  ein  Mai  eineu  Augenblick  im  letzten  Jahre 
wahrend  der  griechisch-tiirkischen  Streitigkeiten,  wo  der  Friede 
der  Grossmachte  in  Europa  allein  von  der  Frage  abhing,  ob 
Oesterreich-Ungarn  und  Russland  in  Bezug  auf  ihre  orien- 
talische  Politik  zu  einem  Ausgleich  gelangen  wurden.  Wenn 
der  griechisch-turkische  Krieg  eine  Episode  ohne  grosse  Kon- 
sequenzen  geblieben  ist,  so  muss  diese  segensvolle  Entwicklung 
vor  allem  der  Richtung  der  Wiener  und  Petersburger  Politik 
zu  Gute  gerechnet  werden,  die  eine  unmittelbare,  besonders 
wirksame  Forderung  alsdann  auch  in  der  klugen  Haltung  der 
rumanischen  Regirung  gefunden  hatte. 

Aus   dieser   augenblicklichen    Constellation    ergab   sich   als 


286  COSMOPOLIS. 

bleibender  Gewinn  eine  Verstandigung  Kusslands  und  Oester- 
reich-Ungarns  daruber,  dass  beide  Staaten  ihre  Kraft  uneigen- 
nutzig  zur  Zeit  einsetzen  wollen  fur  die  Aufrechterhaltung  der 
bestehenden  Zustande  auf  der  Balkanhalbinsel.  Nur  diese 
konservative  Politik  ist  zugleich  eine  Friedensburgschaft,  und 
diese  Uebereinstimmung,  die  die  neueste  Zeit  gebracht  hat, 
und  die  sich  in  der  rauhen  Wirklichkeit  bewahrte,  wird  zu  den 
wenigen  politischen  Ereignisseii  des  abgelaufenen  Jahres  ge- 
horen,  die  zahlen  und  die  eine  bestimmende  Bedeutung  fur  die 
nachste  Zukunft  haben  werden. 

Als  Graf  Goluchowski  zum  Schlusse  seiner  inhaltreichen 
Eroffnungsrede  vor  dem  ungarischen  Delegationsausschuss 
gelangt  war,  veranlasste  er  seine  Zuhorer,  von  der  realen 
Gegenwart  hinweg  in  die  Zukunft  zu  blicken.  Er  sprach 
davon,  dass  wir  "  allem  Anschein  nach  an  einen  Wendepunkt 
im  Entwicklungsprozess  Europas  gelangt  sind."  Ein  "Wende- 
punkt " —  warum  ? 

Die  grosscn  Problcmc  der  matericllen  Wolfahrt,  deren  Losun^  sich  von 
Jahr  zu  Jahr  immer  gebietcrischcr  aufdriingt,  liegcn  nicht  mchr  in  utopischer 
Kerne  ;  sie  sind  tatsachlich  vorhanden  und  durfen  nicht  iiberschcn  werden. 

Der  vernichtende  Konkurrenz-Kampf,  den  wir  auf  Schritt  und  Tritt  auf 
den  Gebieten  des  menschlichen  Schaffens  mit  den  iiberseeischen  Landcrn 
teils  schon  heute  zu  bcstehen,  teils  fiir  die  nachste  Zukunft  zu  gewsirtigen 
Iiaben,  erheischt  eine  rasche  und  durchgreifende  Gegenwclu",  sollen  die 
europaischen  Volker  nicht  in  ihren  vitalsten  Interessen  aufs  Kmpfindliclistc 
}4cschadigt  werden,  und  eineni  Siechtuin  entgcgengehen,  das  sie  dem 
allmahlichen  Untergangc  zufiihren  niusste. 

Schulter  an  Schultcr  miissen  sie  kilmpfen  gegen  die  gemeinschaftlichc 
Gefahr,  und  zu  diesem  Kainpfe  miissen  sie  sich  rflsten  mit  dem  Aufgebote 
aller  ihnen  zur  VerfQgung  stehenden  Hilfsqueiien. 

Gross  und  schwer  ist  diese  Aufgabe,  und  trtigen  nicht  alle  Anzeichcn^ 
so  dtirfte  sie  ihr  charakteristi»^hcs  Merkmal  der  nSchsten  Zeitepoche 
aufdrOcken. 

Wie  das  sechszehnte  und  siebenzelintc  Jahrhundert  mit  den  religioscn 
Kampfen  ausgefflllt  waren,  wie  im  achtzelmten  Jahrhundert  die  liberalcn 
Ideen  zum  Durchbruch  kamen,  wie  das  gegenwartige  Jahrhundert  durch 
das  Auftauchen  der  Xationalitatenfragen  sich  charakterisirt,  so  sagt  sich 
das  zwanzigste  Jahrhundert  fQr  Kuropa  als  ein  Jahrhundert  des  Ringens 
urns  Dasein  auf  handelspolitischcm  Gebiete  an,  und  vereint  niQssen  sich 
die  europaischen  Volker  zusammentniden,  um  in  der  Vcrteidigung  ihrer 
Kxistenzbedingungen  erfolgreich  wirken  zu  kOnnen. 

Moge  die  Erkenntnis  davon  allgemcin  durchdringen,  und  nioge  es  uns 
vcrgonnt  sein,  die  Zeiten  friedliclier  Entwicklung,  denen  wir  nunmehr 
vcrtrauensvoll  entgegenblicken.  zu  bcniitzen,  um  unsere  besten  Krafte  zu 
samraeln  und  vornehmlich  dicscm  Zielc  zuzuwenden. 


POLITISCHES   IN    DEUTSCHER    BELEUCHTUNG.  287 

Es  handelt  sich  bei  diesen  Worten   um  mehr  als  nur  utn 
eine  auffliegende  rednerische  Schlussrakete,  die  einen  blenden- 
den  und  uberraschenden  Gedanken  ausstrahlen  lasst,  und  die 
ihre  Schuldigkeit  getan  hat,  wenn  sie  der  Rede  zu  wirkungs- 
vollem  Abschluss  verholfen  hat. 

Ob  gerade  Graf  Goluchowski  sich  und  Oesterreich-Ungarn 
berufen  glaubt,  die  Initiative  zu  ergreifen  zu  einer  "  raschen 
und  durchgreifenden  Gegenwehr"  gegen  den  "vernichtenden 
Konkurrenzkampf  uberseeischer  Lander,"  —  das  mag  dahin- 
gestellt  bieiben.  Die  handelspolitische  Lage  Oesterreich- 
Ungarns  ist  hierzu  kaum  angetan.  Man  kann  also  von  un- 
mittelbaren  Folgen  dieses  Teiles  der  Rede  des  Grafen  Golu- 
chowski vollstandig  absehen,  und  doch  bleiben  seine  Worte 
bemerkenswert,  weil  sie  Gedanken  widerspiegeln,  die  nicht 
allein  in  den  Kreisen  der  osterreichisch-ungarischen  Regirung 
zur  Erwagung  gestellt  sind. 

Als  am  10.  Dezember  1891  die  erste  Herat ung  der  Zoll-  und 
Handelsvertrage  mit  Oesterreich-Ungarn,  Italien  und  Belgien 
im  deutschen  Reichstage  vorgenommen  vvurde,  da  erhob  sich 
unser  damaliger  Reichskanzler,  Graf  Caprivi,  um  eine  kiinftige 
Entwicklung  auszumalen,  die  in  hohem  Grade,  nur  noch 
vorsichtiger  abgetont,  deni  Bilde  entspricht,  das  sechs  Jahre 
spater  vor  den  osterreichisch-ungarischen  Delegationen  vom 
Grafen  Goluchowski  entrollt  worden  ist. 

Es  verdienen  die  interessanten  Worte  des  vorsichtigen  und 
klugen   Grafen  Caprivi  hierher  gesetzt  zu  werden  ;  er  sagte : 

Ks  ist  in  der  letztcn  Zcit  cine  wcltgeschichtliche  Erscheinung  zum 
I^'wusstsein  der  Volker  gckommen,  die  ich  hoch  anschlagc,  das  ist 
die  Bildung  grosser  Reiche,  das  Sclbstbewusstsein  dicscr  Reiclie,  das 
Bcstreben,  sich  gegen  andere  abzuschliessen.  Unser  ostlichcr  Nachbar 
vcrfugt  Ober  ein  Gebiet,  das  von  der  Zone  nordlich  vom  Himalaya  bis  an 
(las  Eismeer  reicht ;  er  ist  im  Stande,  fast  alle  Frodukte,  die  ein  Reich  zu 
>einer  Existenz  braucht,  selbstiindig  hervorzubringen,  er  hat  eine  grosse 
Kxpansionskraft  £Qr  seine  Arbeit  :  grosse  Aufgaben  liegen  nacli  dieser 
Richtung  vor  dem  russischen  Reiche.  Jenseits  des  atlantischen  Oceans 
niinmt  die  Bevolkerungszahl  der  Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Nordamerika 
von  Jahr  zu  Jahr  zu ;  ihr  Kraftbewusstsein,  die  Knergie,  mit  der  sie  ihre 
eigenen  Interessen  verfolgt,  nimmt  zu.  Als  im  vorigeii  Jahre  diese 
Erscheinung  zum  ersten  Male  auftrat,  war  man  bei  uns  darQber  erstaunt, 
und  ich  habe  wol  Aeusscrungen  gehort,  das  wiire  volkerrechtlich  nicht 
/uliissig.  Ja,  meine  Herren,  jeder  Staat  hat — und  darin  unterscheidet  er 
sich  vom  Individuum — als  erste   Pflicht  die  der  Sclbsterhaltung,  und  in 


288  cosworoLis. 

•dcm  Triebc  imch  Selbsterhaltung  werdcji  die  Staatcn  in  absehbarcr  Zeit 
viel  weiter  gehcn  als  bisher.    Ks  ist  nicht  ausj^cschlossen,  dass  es  zwischcn 

-den  Staatcn  zii  eincr  Art  von  KniXfilhnin^l  koninit,  in  dcr  nicht  gcschossen 
wird,  in  dcr  sic  den  Gcsctzesparagraphcn  iind  die  Tarifposiiion  in  dor 
Hand  haben.  Wic  das  Schicksal  von  Australien  sich  gestalten  \vird,  das 
mag  dahingestellt  bicibcn  ;  auch  da  wiichst  die  Bcvolkerung  fortwahrend. 
Und  wcnn  kundigc  Beobachter  dcr  Erscheinungen,  die  jetzt  in  China  zii 
Tage  trctcn,  Recht  haben,  ist  China  an  dcm  Anfang  cincr  grossen  I'm- 
wal/ung .  .  .  Aiif  alle  Fiille  ist  so  viel  klar  :  wir  haben  es  niit  grossen 
Staatcn  zu  tun,  die  iiber  kurz  oder  lang  zur  Riicksichtslosigkeit  gcgcn 
anderc  neigen  werden.  Dcr  Schauplatz  dcr  Weltgcschichte  hat  sich  cr- 
weitert :  damit  sind  die  Froportionen  andcre  gewordcn,  und  cin  Sta:it. 
der  als  europiiische  Grossmacht  eine  Rollc  in  der  Geschichtc  gespielt  hat, 
kann,  was  seine  matericUe  Kraft  angeht,  in  absehbarcr  Zeit  zu  den  Klein- 
staaten  gehorcn.  IVollcn  vun  die  curopllischen  Staaien  ihre  WeltsielUinti 
iiufrecht  crhalteu,  $o  ivcrdcn  sic  mich  mdncm  DafitrhaUcn  nicht  umhiii 
konneiif  sourii  sic  wcnigsicns  ihrcii  sousfi^cn  Anlafiai  nach  liazu  gccif^nci  sind, 

.ctig  an  einandcr  sich  amuschlicsscu.  Es  ist  nicht  unmoglich,  dass  die  Zeit 
kommen  wird,  wo  sic  einsehen  werden^  dass  sic  Kliigcres  zu  tun  haben 
werden,  als  sich  gcgcnseitig  das  Blut  auszusaugen,  (sehr  gut  !)  weil  sie  ini 
li'irtschiiff lichen  Kitmp/c  uni  das  Dasein  genotigt  scin  werden,  allc  ihrc  Kratlc 
cinzusetzen. 

Und  nun  mochte  ich  noch  erwahnen,  dass  auch  der  rus- 
sische  Finanzminister,  Herr  Witte,  kiirzlich,  wie  man  mir  mit- 
teilte,  in  einer  Unterhaltung  auf  die  Notwendigkeit  fur  die 
europaischen  Staaten  hingewiesen  hat,  sich  gegen  die  uber- 
seeische,  vor  allem  die  amerikanische  Konkurrenz,  gemeinsani 
machtvoU  zu  ruhren. 

Aus  der  Sphare  der  reinen   Politik  in  die  der  poHtischen 

""  Kunst  **  —  wenn  man  ein  Blatt  darum,  weil  sich  eine  Zeich- 

nung  darauf  befindet,  schon   Kunst  nennen  will  —  fuhrt  als- 

dann  die  AUegorie  unseres  Professor  Knackfuss.     Diese  poli- 

^ische  Kunst,  die  weder  politisch,  noch  kunstlerisch  ist,  zeigt 

bekanntlich  auf   einem  Felsplateau   die   Verkorperungen   der 

einzelnen  Staaten  Europas  zu  gemeinsamer  Abwehr  vereinigt, 

und  gegen  sie  walzt  sich  heran  das   ostasiatische   Ungeheuer, 

Verwustung  hinter  sich  lassend  und  Vernichtung  immer  naher 

'bringend.     Unter  diese   padagogische    Zeichnung   hat   unser 

Kaiser  die  Worte  gesetzt  : 

"  Volker  Europas,  wahret  Eure  heiligsten  Gtiter  !" 

Will  man  diese  verschiedenartigen  Aeusserungen  auf  eine 
gemeinsame  Empfindung  zuriickfuhren,  so  kann  man  sagen  : 
Am  Schlusse  des  neunzehnten  Jahrhunderts  uberkommt 
Europa  das  Gefiihl  seiner  Kleinheit.     Die  Erde  schliesst  der 


POLITISCHES   IN    DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  289 

Dampf  und  die  Elektrizitat  langsam  wirtschaftlich  und  p.oli- 
tisch  zu  einer  engen  Einheit  zusammen,  und  die  europiiischen 
Grossmachte  beginnen  zu  empfinden,  dass  ihre  curopaische 
Grosse  klein  ist  gegenuber  den  gewaltigen  Lander-  und  Volker- 
massen  ausserhalb  Europas,  die  uns  nahe  geriickt  sind  und  uns 
bestandig  naher  geriickt  werden,  und  die  mil  ihrer  Entwick- 
lung  auf  die  unsere  zu  wirken  und  auch  schon  zu  driickcn 
beginnen. 

Solchen  Betrachtungen  entspringt  ein  Gefuhl  des  Unbe- 
hagens,  und  der  Trieb  der  meisten  europaischen  Grossstaaten, 
uberseeische  Landermassen  —  gewohnlich  ohne  Auswahl,  in 
blindem  Zugreifen  —  an  sich  zu  reissen  ;  solche  Betrachtungen 
zeitigen  den  Wunsch,  das  eigene  Wachstum  in  richtigem  Ver- 
hiiltnis  zu  erhalten  mit  der  allgemeinen,  ins  Riesenhafte 
gehenden  Entwicklung. 

Wenn  wir  auf  die  kulturreichen  kleinen  Stadt^Staaten  des 
klassischen  Altertums  zuriickblicken,  so  ahnen  wir  die  Em- 
pfindungen  einer  Zeit,  da  die  zukiinftigen  Erdteilstaaten  mit 
hundert  und  mit  hunderten  Millionen  von  Einwohnern  auf  die 
kleinen  europaischen  Nationalstaaten  unserer  Tage  zuriick- 
blicken  konnen. 

Die  Vereinigten  Staaten,  England  mit  seiner  gewaltigen 
Kolonialmacht,  Russland  und  auch  Frankreich  weisen  auf  diesc 
Zukunft ;  Frankreich  freilich  nur  in  gewiesser  Beziehung  ;  es 
besitzt  wol  einen  Riesenleib,  der  sich  schon  iiber  alle  Zonen 
erstreckt,  aber  es  beginnen  ihm  die  Menschen  zu  fehlen,  um 
diesen  Leib  zu  beleben. 

Politisch  haben  sich  die  europaischen  Grossmachte  zum 
iiberwiegenden  Teil  durch  Coalitionen  zu  grossen  Verbanden 
zusammengefunden,  die,  wie  die  Tatsachen  bisher  beweisen, 
das  Gleichgewicht  und  den  Frieden  wenigstens  in  Europa 
aufrechtzuerhalten  geeignet  sind  ;  wirtschaftspolitisch  bestehen 
solche  grossen  Verbande  bisher  nicht  ;  es  ist  nur  der  einzelne 
Staat,  der  sich  im  besten  Falle  durch  Handelsvertnige  von 
verhaltnismassig  kurzer  Dauer  mit  einer  Reihe  anderer  Staaten 
den  okonomischen  Frieden  zu  sichern  sucht.  Bei  der  Kich- 
tung,  die  die  Ausgestaltung  der  Weltverhaltnisse  den  Ideen 
gegeben  hat,  ist  es  nur  folgerichtig,  dass  immer  wieder  die 
Frage  auftaucht  :    Kann  man   nicht  den  grossen   politischen 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXV.  VJ 


290  COSMOPOLIS. 

Coalitionen  audi  grossc  wirtschaftliche  Coalitionen  zur  Seite 
stellen  ? 

Die  erste  Anregung  fur  eine  solche  Gedankenrichtung  gab 
bereits  die  Grundung  des  Zollvereins.  Richelot  berichtet  in 
seinem  Buche  :  "  L' Association  douaniere  allemande  ou  le 
Zollverein  "  *  von  diesen  Stimmungen  : 

Cettc  uouveaute  d'une  association  dc  douancs  cntrc  plusieur;>  Etats  a 
excite  dans  le  inonde  un  vif  int^ret.  Loin  dc  la  rcnferuier  dans  Ics  limitcs 
de  TAUcmagne,  on  s'cst  plu  a  Tetendrc,  a  la  gcneraliser.  Les  imaginations 
cmues  se  sont  donndes  carriere  ct  ont  reparti  Ics  Etats  ciiropccns  en  divers 
groupes  douaniers. 

In  der  Tat  handelte  es  sich  damals  nur  darum,  einen  Ge- 
danken,  der  sich  innerhalb  Deutschlands  aus  triebkraftigen 
Keimen  langsam  verwirklichte,  durch  abstraktes  Generalisiren 
auf  andere  Verhaltnisse  zu  iibertragen,  die  die  Voraussetzung 
fur  seine  Entfaltung  keineswegs  darboten.  Immerhin  bleibt 
es  bemerkenswert,  dass,  so  oft  auch  spater  diese  Erorterungen 
aufgegriffen  wurden,  immer  wieder  auf  das  Vorbild  des 
deutschen  Zollvereins  hingewiesen  wurde,  wo  zuerst  in 
unseren  Tagen  selbstandige  und  souverane  Staaten — als  solche 
konnte  man  die  einzelnen  deutschen  Staatsgebilde  bezeichnen 
— sich  zusammenschlossen,  um  ein  gemeinsames  ZoUgebiet  zu 
bilden,  und  um  eine  gemeinsame  ZoUpolitik  zu  verfolgen. 
Freilich  waren  diese  Staaten  einer  Nationalitat,  und  freilich 
wies  diese  Staaten  die  gemeinsame  deutsche  Vergangenheit 
und  die  politische  Notwendigkeit  der  Gegenwart  auf  eine 
Zukunft  hin,  die  nur  in  einem  Deutschen  Reiche  gefunden 
werden  konnte.  Aber  soUten  nicht,  so  fragte  man,  auch  ohne 
diese  nationalen  und  politischen  Voraussetzungen  die  wirtschaft- 
hchen  Interessen  allein  vermogen,  grosse  Zollvereinigungen 
erstehen  zu  lassen  ? 

Diese  Erorterungen  regte  besonders  lebhaft  ein  Artikel  an, 
den  der  bekannte  franzosische  Nationalokonom  G.  de  Molinari 
im  "Journal  des  D6bats"  am  24.  Januar  1879  erscheinen 
liess.t  Die  Ausfiihrungen  von  Molinari  iiber  eine  "  Union 
douaniere  de  I'Europe  centrale "  fanden  in  weiten  Kreisen 
Beachtung,   und    auf    ihnen    basiren    im    Wesentlichen    die 

*  II.  Ed.  1859.   Paris,  chcz  Capelle. 

t  Wiederabgedruckt  im  "Journal  des  Economistes,"  Janvier  a  Mars  1879, 
p.  309  ff. 


POLITISCHES   IN   DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  29I 

spateren    Veroffentlichungen,   die    sich    mit    dieser    Materie 
beschaftigen.* 

G.  de  Molinari  brachte  seine  Ideen  darauf  am  5.  Februar 
1879  auch  in  der  Soci6t6  d'Economie  politique  zu  Paris  zur 
Erorterung.t  Bei  dieser  Zusammenkunft  machte  ernste 
Einwendungen  nur  Leroy-Beaulieu — auch  er  ist  als  National- 
okonom  bekannt  und  geschatzt  genug —  ;  wir  werden  sehen, 
dass  er  selbst  spater  in  etwas  veranderter  Form  die  Idee  von 
Molinari  wiefler  aufnahm. 

In  dieser  Versammlung,  die  sich  zu  den  Molinarischen 
Vorschlagen  •  sehr  freundlich  stellte,  sagte  ein  Redner  nach 
dem  vorliegenden  Berichte  das  Folgende,  was  wol  zu  be- 
achten  ist. 

M.  A.  Courtois,  constatant  que  toute  la  reunion  est  UbrC'echan^istc  et  que 
la  fin  du  libre-echange  est  1' Union  douaniere  universelle,  en  conclut  que 
c:hacun  des  membres  presents  n'est  pas  plus  radical  en  tant  qu  economiste, 
cjue  M.  de  Molinari,  mais  plus  radical  que  son  projet.J 

Freihdndler  waren  es,  die  sich  zu  dem  Plan  des  Herrn  de 
Molinari  bekannten,  und  die  fast  ausnahmlos  der  Ansicht 
waren,  dass  der  Weg,  den  er  gewiesen,  den  Zielen  des 
Freihandels  zufuhre. 

Sein  Plan  war  der  folgende  : 

Frankreich,  Belgien,  Holland,  Danemark,  Deutschland, 
Oesterreich  und  die  Schweiz  sollten  zu  einem  Zollbunde 
isusammengeschlossen  werden,  aber,  dem  freihandlerischen 
Standpunkte  entsprechend,  soUte  auch  anderen  Staaten  der 
Anschluss  spater  freistehen. 

G.  de  Molinari  hatte  die  Beobachtung  gemacht,  dass  zu 
Jener  Zeit  nur  eine  verhaltnismassig  kleine  Anzahl  von  Zollen, 
tand  zwar  nur  die  Zolle  auf  die  iiberseeischen  Importartikel, 
clan  genannten  Staaten  grossere  Einnahmen  brachten  ;  folg- 
lich  moge  man  die  anderen  Zolle  beseitigen,  und  nur  an  der 
^emeinsamen  Zollgrenze,  die  alle  genannten  Staaten  um- 
5Sc:hliesst,  die  eintraglichen  fiir  den  Fiscus  unentbehrlichen 
olle  auf  die  iiberseeischen  Importartikel  erheben. 


*  Einc  Zusaminenstellung  der  Argumcntc  und  Gegenargumentc,  niit  deiicii 
'-i^.mals  gekampft  wurde,  findet  man  in  "  L' Association  douaniere  dc  I'Europc 
^entrale."    Etude  par  R.  de  Kaufmann.     Paris,  Guillauinin  et  Cie. 

t  Verhandluhgsbericht  abgedruckt  im  "Journal  des  Economistes."  Janvier  a 
Mars  1879,  p.  377  ^' 

\  Loc.  cit.  p.  340. 


292  COSMOPOLIS. 

Si,  comme  I'attestent  Ics  chiffres  que  nous  vcnons  de  relevcr,  la  plus 
grosse  part  dcs  rcvenus  de  la  douane  est  prelcvec  sur  uii  petit  nombre 
de  produits  de  provenance  extra-europeenne,  si  les  articles  de  provenance 
britanniquc,  cspagnole,  italienne,  russe  ou  scandinave  fournissent  dans  les 
Etats  du  centre  de  I'Europe  a  peu  pres  tout  le  reste,  qu'cn  faut-il 
conclurc  ?  Cost  que  les  genes,  les  vexations  ct  les  retards  que  Ici 
douanes  interieures  qui  morcellent  ce  groupe  d'Etats  infligent  aus 
voyageurs  et  au  commerce  sont  absolument  inutiles  ;  c'est  qu'on  pourrait 
supprimer  les  douanes  entre  la  France,  la  Belgique,  la  Hollande.  le  Dane- 
mark,  I'Allemagne,  I'Autriche  et  la  Suisse... 

G.  de  Molinari  unterschatzt  nicht  die  grossen  Schwierig- 
keiten,  die  in  der  Verschiedenheit  der  vorhandenen  Steuer- 
gesetzgebungen  bestanden  ;  er  unterschatzt  nic  ht  die  grosser 
Schwierigkeiten,  die  eine  Verteilung  der  gemeinsamen  Zoll- 
einnahmen  unter  den  einzelnen  Staaten  hatte  ;  aber  er  hat 
Recht,  iiber  diese  Hindernisse  wiirde  man  schliessHch  hin- 
wegkommen  konnen  ;  und  das  um  so  leichter,  denn 

la  France,  la  Belgique,  la  Hollande,  Ic  Danemark,  lAllemagne 
TAutriche  et  la  Suisse  sont  arrivees  a  peu  pres  au  meme  degre  dt 
dcveloppement  cconomique  ;  elles  ont  renonce  successivement  au  regime 
prohibitif  et,  quoique  a  des  degres  divers,  adopte  iiiic  politique  dc  libciU 
CO  mnicrcialc, 

Und  der  Vorteil  ware  der  eines  ausserordentlich  erweiterten 
innern  gesicherten  Marktes  von  damals  rund  130  Millionen 
Consumenten  ;  eine  solche  Zollvereinigung,  die  die  bisherigen 
Zolleinnahmen  der  Staaten  nicht  verkiirzen  wiirde,  tragt  aber 
noch  einen  besonders  grossen  Gewinn. 

Sa  base  d'operations  se  trouvera  agrandie,  et  elle  sera  en  outre,  grace 
a  cet  accroissement  de  I'importance  de  son  marche  interieur,  .niieus 
garanlie  contrc  les  faniaisies  prolectionnistcs  des  legislateurs  etrangers 
Ceux-ci  n'y  regarderaient-ils  pas  a  deux  fois  avant  de  prendre  des  mesurci 
qui  pourraient  avoir  pour  consequence  de  leur  fermer  par  represailles  ui 
marche  de  130  millions  de  consommateurs  ? 

Also  im  Innern  Freihandel  und  nach  aussen  hin  eint 
Wafife  gegen  die  schutzzoUnerischen  Excentricitaten  fremdej 
Staaten. 

Paul  Leroy-Beaulieu  nahm  jene  Gedanken  ein  wenij 
spater  auf  und  kain  zu  denselben  Schliissen,  nur  umfasste  seir 
Plan  weniger  Staaten.  Er  legte  seine  Vorschlage  nieder  in 
"Economistefran9ais"  vom  11.  Oktober  und  i.  November  1879 
Er  woUte  "  La  Fondation  d'une  union  douanifere  occi 
dentale  " — so  iiberschrieb  er  seinen  Artikel — ,  die  Frankreich 
die  Schweiz,  Belgien,  Holland  und  Italien  umschliessen  soUte 


POLITISCHES   IN   DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  293 

Der  Plan  von  Molinari  sei  zu  umfangreich,  zu  schwer  zu 
verwirklichen,  die  in  Betracht  kommenden  Staaten  seien  nach 
Rasse  und  Institutionen  zu  verschieden  geartet,  und,  endlich, 
ein  das  ganze  Mitteleuropa  umfassender  Zollbund  konne 
auch  gegen  die  Absicht  der  Urheber  als  "  une  sorte  de 
conspiration  europ6enne  contre  I'Angleterre"  erscheinen. 
Davon  konne  freilich  bei  dem  Standpunkt  des  Herrn  de 
Molinari  keine  Rede  sein,  noch  weniger  naturlich  errege  einen 
solchen  Verdacht  der  Zollbund  des  Herrn  Leroy-Beaulieu , 
der  78  Millionen  Seelen  und  933,000  Kilometer  umschliessen 
wurde. 

Cctte  Union  ne  scrait  hostile  a  pcrsonne  ;  en  supprimant  les  douanncs 
entre  ces  cinq  pays  on  ne  rclcverait  pas  les  tarifs  contre  les  aiitres 
pcuples.  On  continuerait  a  conclure  avec  eux  des  traites  de  commerce 
sur  les  bases  les  plus  liberales  possibles. 

Also  auch  hier  ist  der  Ausgangspunkt  ein  durchaus 
freihandlerischer. 

Diese  Darlegungen  fanden  den  Boden  umso  besser 
vorbereitet,  da  inzwischen  die  bedeutungsvolle  Reise  des 
Fursten  Bismarck  nach  Wien  vor  sich  ging,  und  man  allge- 
mein  als  Ergebnis  dieser  Reise  auch  einen  Zollbund  zwischen 
Deutschland  und  Oesterreich-Ungarn  erwartete.  In  der 
Schweiz  und  in  Italien  beangstigten  diese  Aussichten.  Der 
Deputirte  Luzzati  gab  in  der  angesehenen  Florentiner  "  Nuova 
Antologia"  diesen  Besorgnissen  Ausdruck,  und  in  der 
Schweiz  gewann  Molinari  durch  Vortriige  fiir  seine  Ideen 
Zustimmung. 

Dieses  Hinubergreifen  der  franzosischen  Ideen  nach  der 
Schweiz  verdient  Beachtung,  und  Beachtung  verdient  noch  ein 
Umstand.  Leroy-Beaulieu  spricht  mit  warmster  Sympathie 
von  Italien — "  une  grande  contr6e,  peupl6e  d'une  race  soeur  de 
lanotre" — und  er  stellt  beiden  Liindern  von  einem  solchen 
Zollbunde  die  grossten  Vorteile  in  Aussicht. 

Quant  a  I'ltalie,  elle  a  moins,  il  est  vrai,  de  capitaux  que  la  France  ;  mais 
les  capitaux  frangais  se  rendcnt  asscz  volontiers  dans  la  pcninsulc  ;  les 
industries  italiennes  n'ont  rien  a  redouter  des  industries  fran(;aiscs  ;  Ic 
debouche  frangais  serait  enorme  pour  les  produits  italicns  et  d'un  autre 
c6te,  sous  le  regime  d'une  union  douaniere,  le  niarch6  italien  sVlaririrait 
singulierement  pournos  produits. 

Welch  eine  idealistische,  fran/osisch-ilalienische  Harnionic  ! 


294  COSMOPOLIS. 

Gerade  iiber  diese,  freilich  sehr  wichtige,  Phase  in  dei 
Debatten  uber  einen  europaischen  Zollbund  oder  uber  einei 
Zollbund  in  Europa  habe  ich  aus  einem  Grunde  so  ausfuhrlicl 
berichtet ;  man  kann  mit  theoretischen  Argumenten  und  mi 
theoretischen  Gegenargumenten,  die  der  abstrakten  politischei 
und  volkswirtschaftlichen  Betrachtung  entnommen  sind,  ube 
die  Moglichkeit  und  Zweckmassigkeit  solcher  Zollverband 
streiten ;  oder  man  kann  die  offen  daliegende  praktisch 
Erfahrung  zu  Rate  ziehen  ;  das  letztere  zu  tun,  schien  mi 
niitziicher  und  beweiskraftiger. 

Molinari  und  Leroy-Beaulieu  gingen  in  ihren  Darlegungei 
von  einem  Europa  aus,  das  einem  gemassigten  System  de 
Freihandels  huldigte — so  war  es  gegen  Ende  der  siebzige 
Jahre  ; — seitdem  sind  die  allein  moglichen  Saulen  grossere 
continentaler  Zollvereinigungen  in  Mitteleuropa — Frankreicl 
Deutschland,  Oesterreich-Ungarn — tief  oder  weniger  tief  in  di( 
Schutzzollnerei  hineingeraten.  Dieser  Umschwung  ist  ar 
sich  bedeutungsvoU  genug ;  er  wiirde  zur  Folge  haben,  das; 
jede  der  gedachten  europaischen  Zollvereinigungen  nich 
freihandlerisch-freundlich  sich  zu  den  aussen  stehenden  Mach 
ten  stellen  wiirde,  sondern  folgerichtig  schutzzollnerisch- 
feindlich,  und  die  Welt  wiirde  dann  zerrissen  in  riesige 
wirtschaftliche  Lager,  die  sich  in  erbitterter  Gegnerschafi 
wirtschaftlich  befehdeten. 

Aber  das  ist  nicht  der  Gesichtspunkt,  den  ich  an  diesei 
Stelle  in  den  Vordergrund  riicken  mochte. 

Der  Umschwung  in  den  wirtschaftlichen  Anschauunger 
der  einzelnen  europaischen  Grossstaaten  ist  zugleich  im  emi 
nentesten  Sinne  ein  politischer  Umschwung  im  Innern  jenei 
Reiche. 

Die  wirtschaftliche  Gesetzgebung  eines  Landes  ist  leidei 
nicht  das  Facit  der  kiihlen  Erwagungen  vorurteilslos  und  kluj 
urteilender  okonomischer  Sachkenner,  die  den  Staat  ah 
Ganzes  betrachten  ;  sie  ist  in  modern  en  Reichen  das  Ergebni; 
des  Gegeneinanderwirkens  feindlicher,  meist  egoistischei 
Krafte  um  Macht  im  Staate  und  um  Einfluss  auf  die  Gesetz 
gebung  des  Staates.  Da  soziale  und  wirtschaftliche  Mach 
auch  politische  Mache  bedeutel,  und  da  die  wirtschaftliche 
Gesetzgebung  durch  Behinderung  oder  Forderung  bestimmtq 


POLITISCHES   IN    DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  295 

Teile  der  Nation  in  ihrer  Erwerbsbetatigung  den  einen  soziale 
xind  wirtschaftliche  Macht  auf  Kosten  der  anderen  zufiihrt  und 
zuzufuhren  sucht,  so  sind  wirtschaftliche  Kampfe  zugleich  im 
hochsten  Grade  politische  Kampfe.  Ja  sie  geben  in  unserer 
Zeit  den  politischen  Kampfen  den  eigentlichen  Kern  und 
Mittelpunkt, 

Wir  erleben  das  jetzt  in  Deutschland  in  voller  leibhaf tiger 
Wirklichkeit. 

Maassgebenc^en  oder  starken  Einfluss  auf  die  Krone,  auf 
das  Beamtentum,  auf  das  Heer  und  damit  auf  den  Staat  hat 
bis  jetzt  bei  uns  die  Klasse  der  adligen  Grundbesitzer,  die  Jun- 
ker. Die  historische  Entwicklung  hat  uns  zu  diesem  Zustand 
gefuhrt.  Dieser  Adel  ist  sozial  und  wirtschaftlich  basirt  auf  der 
Landwirtschaft.  Das  Sitzen  auf  dem  angestammten  Gute 
gewahrte  ihm  bis  in  die  neuere  Zeit  eine  wirtschaftliche  Lage, 
die  es  ihm  ermoglichte,  auch  in  sozialer  Beziehung  die  aller- 
erste  Rolle  im  Staatezu  spielen.  Politische,  wirtschaftliche  und 
damit  auch  soziale  Macht  fielen  hier  zusammen. 

Nun  verschob  die  moderne  Zeit  die  wirtschaftlichen  Verhalt- 
nisse  voUstandig.  Die  Landwirtschaft  wurde  durch  die 
iiberseeische  Konkurrenz  verhaltnismassig  unergiebig,  und  die 
moderne  Maschinenindustrie  fiihrte  Handel  und  Industrie 
enorme  Reichtiimer  zu.  Unser  der  Landwirtschaft  obliegen- 
des,  den  Staat  maassgebend  beeinflussendes  Junkertum  wurde 
wirtschaftlich  schwiicher  und  schwacher  und  musste  furchten, 
damit  allmahlich  auch  seine  soziale  und  politische  Macht 
einzubussen. 

So  drehen  sich  denn  unsere  inneren  politischen  Kampfe  in 
Deutschland  in  ihrem  wesentlichen  Kern  allein  um  die  Frage  : 
Soil  das  naturliche  moderne  Wachstum  bei  uns  kiinstlich 
durch  gesetzgeberischen  Zwang  aufgehalten  werden,  oder 
sollen  vielmehr  die  kiinstlichen  Schranken  niedergerissen 
werden,  die  dieses  Wachstum  noch  ungebiirlich  hemmen  ? 
Soil  Deutschland  mehr  und  mehr  ein  Industriestaat  werden  und 
sollen  damit  die  Verhaltnisse  zu  Ungunsten  der  bei  uns  de 
facto  herrschenden  Klasse  weiter  verschoben  werden  ;  oder 
soil  der  Entwicklung  zum  Industriestaat  weiter  eine  Hem- 
mung  nach  der  anderen  durch  die  Gesetzgebung  entgegen- 
geschoben  werden  ? 


2(/)  COSMOPOLIS. 

1st  die  wirtschaftliche  Gesetzgebung  fur  das  eigene  Land 
in  hohem  Grade  politische  Gesetzgebung,  so  ist  die  wirt- 
schaftliche Gesetzgebung  fur  den  internationalen  Verkehr — 
von  Staat  zu  Staat — in  vielen  Fallen  gleichfalls  ganz  ausgiebig 
von  politischen  Momenten  beeinflusst. 

Ich  habe  absichtlich  aus  den  Darlegungen  von  Leroy- 
Beaulieu  jene  Stelle  hervorgehoben,  die  mit  so  vielem 
Wolwollen  von  Italien  spricht,  und  jene  andere,  die  sich  auf 
die  Schweiz  bezieht.  Mit  der  Schweiz,  die  zum  Zollbund 
herangezogen  werden  soUte,  hat  Frankreich  einen  schweren 
wirtschaftlichen  Kampf  seitdem  gefuhrt.  Und  Italien  !  Als 
Italien  dem  Dreibuiid  beigetreten  war,  entbrannte  zwischen 
Italien  und  Frankreich  ein  wirtschaftspolitischer  Krieg,  der 
ganz  wesentlich  vom  dem  Gesichtspunkt  dictirt  war,  das  Land, 
welches  man  in  Paris  als  einen  politischen  Gegner  betrachte, 
nunmehr  auch  aus  politischen  Griinden  wirtschaftlich  nach 
Moglichkeit  zu  schadigen.  Und  als  Furst  Bismarck  die 
Aechtung  der  russischen  Werte — leider  ! — bei  uns  durchsetzte, 
da  geschah  das  ganz  wesentlich  aus  politischen  Grunden,  und 
die  Folgen  waren  nicht  nur  wirtschaftliche,  sondern  vor 
allem  wiederum  politische.  Finanzielle  Fragen  waren  es,  die 
der  politischen,  russisch-franzosischen  Annaherung  die  Wege 
ebneten. 

Eine  Volksgemeinschaft,  die  auf  einander  angewiesen  ist, 
Oder  eine  Volksgemeinschaft,  die  das  Bewusstsein  in  sich  trfigt, 
in  ihren  politischen  Geschicken  kunftig  doch  ein  Mai  auf 
einander  aus  innerer  Xotwendigkeit  angewiesen  zu  sein  —  wie 
die  Deutschen  vor  der  Begriindung  des  Deutschen  Reiches  — , 
sie  kann  sich  wirtschaftlich  zusammenschliessen,  und  eine 
Minoritat  wird,  so  lange  sie  es  muss,  das  wirtschaftliche  und 
politische  Joch  einer  Majoritat  tragen.  Aber  Nationen,  denen 
das  Bewusstsein  dieser  inneren  unzerreissbaren  Zusammen- 
gehorigkeit  fehlt,  werden  complicirte  wirtschaftliche  Fesseln, 
die  dem  Staate  in  hohem  Grade  seine  souveriine  Entschlies- 
sung  fiir  die  innere  Entwicklung  wie  fiir  seine  internationale 
Stellungnahme  rauben,  nicht  tragen,  ohne  leicht  zu  gefahr- 
vollen  Enttauschungen  zu  gelangen. 

Man  braucht  nur  daran  zu  denken,  welche  Verwicklungen 
sich   ergeben    hatten,  wenn    fiir    Italien   und   Frankreich   der 


POLITISCHES   IN   DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  297 

Leroy-Beaulieusche  wirtschaftliche  Bund  zur  Ausfuhrung 
gelangt  ware,  und  wenn  Italien  sich  dann  aus  politischen 
Grunden  doch  dem  Dreibund  hiitte  anschliessen  mussen. 

So  oft  denn  auch  praktische  Versuche  in  jener  Richtung 
gemacht  worden  sind,  so  oft  sind  sie  gescheitert. 

Am  7.  Juli  1884  beriet  eine  Commission  des  Congresses  der 
Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Amerika  iiber  die  wirtschaftliche 
Einigung  aller  Staaten  des  amerikanischen  Continents. 
Langsam  entwickelte  sich  die  Sache  weiter  und  am  7.  Oktober 
1887  sollte  der  panamerikanische  Congress  zusammentreten. 
Am  15.  Oktober  1889  hatte  man  es  endlich  bis  zum  Zusam- 
mentritt  des  Congresses  gebracht,  der  dann  die  Moglichkeit 
eines  Zollbundes  bestritt,  und  der  empfahl,  was  stets  zu 
empfehlen  war,  die  Vereinbarung  durch  Handelsvertrage  von 
Fall  zu  Fall.  Und  das  Ergebnis  der  Beratungeh  der  englischen 
Kolonien  in  diesem  Jahre  unter  dem  Vorsitz  von  Mr.  Cham- 
berlain war  gleichfalls  ein  negatives ;  auch  ein  Zollbund 
zwischen  England  und  seinen  Kolonien  wurde  um  keinen 
Schritt  gefordert,  und  doch  handelt  es  sich  hier  ganz  (iber- 
wiegend  um  Lander,  die  von  einer  Rasse  besiedelt  sind.  Selbst 
dieser  Ausgang  war  nicht  verwunderlich.  Man  braucht  sich 
nur  der  feinen  Beobachtungen  von  Sir  Charles  Dilke  in  seinem 
"  Greater  Britain,"  insbesondere  in  seinem  Artikel  "  Protec- 
tion "  *  zu  erinnern. 

Obgleich  der  Kolonist  Englander  ist,  wird  er  doch  zunachst 
von  seinem  engeren  kolonialen  Patriotismus  selbst  auf  wirt- 
schaftlichem  Gebiet,  so  unwirtschaftlich  das  auch  sein  mag, 
beherrscht : 

Show  your  patriotism  and  buy  colonial  goods. 

Und  warum  diese  Verkniipfung  —  so  irrationell  sie  oft  ist  — 
von  Wirtschaftspolitik  und  lokalem  politischem  Patriotismus  ? 

It  is  a  common  doctrine  in  the  colonies  of  England  that  a  nation 
cannot  be  called  "  independent "  if  it  has  to  cry  out  to  another  for  supplies 
of  necessaries  ;  that  true  national  existence  is  first  attained  when  the 
country  becomes  capable  of  supplying  to  its  own  citizens  those  goods 
without  which  they  cannot  exist  in  the  state  of  comfort  which  they  have 
already  reached.  Political  in  apt  to  follow  upon  commcicial  depemtcncv^ 
they  say. 

Und  so  etwa  scheint  es  bis  heute  geblieben  zu  sein, 

♦  Ausg;^bc  1880,  p.  331  if. 


298  COSMOPOLIS. 

Nur  der  wird  das  Gewicht  solcher  Argumente  unterschatzen  > 
der  glaubt,  dass  Volksmassen  mit  dem  Vefstande  vor  AUem, 
und  nicht  vor  Allem  mit  der  Empfindung,  ihre  Entscheidungen 
treflFen.  An  ihren  Entscheidungen  hat  ganz  iiberwiegend  die 
ungeklarte  Empfindung  ihrer  Anteil,  und  zwar  ganz  gleich- 
giltig,  ob  es  sich  um  heilige  Fragen  unerbittlichen  Rechtes> 
wie  im  Fall  Dreyfus,  oder  um  niichterne  mathematische 
Fragen  wirtschaftlicher  Zweckmassigkeit,  wie  in  der  Zoll- 
politik,  handelt. 

Die  obigen  bisherigen  Erorterungen  gingen  von  jenen 
freihandlerischen  Voraussetzungen  aus,  auf  denen  Molinari 
und  Leroy-Beaulieu  fussten. 

Aber  dieselben  Plane  wandelten  sich  alsdann  auch  un- 
mittelbar  zu  formidablen  schutzzollnerischen  AngriffswaflFen 
um.     Und  das  eigentlich  mit  grosserem,  inneren  Recht. 

Der  Freihandler  braucht  keine  exclusive  Gemeinschaft  zu 
schliessen,  weil  sein  freihandlerischer  Standpunkt  konsequen- 
terweise  gegenuber  alien  Staaten  gleichmassig  zur  Geltung 
gebracht  werden  muss.  Der  Schutzzollner  dagegen  kann  den 
Zusammenschluss  von  Staatsgruppen  theoretisch  fur  ange- 
bracht  erachten,  um  das  vergrosserte  gemeinsame  Gebiet  mit 
seinen  grosseren  Hilfsquellen  alsdann  umso  wirkungsvoller 
gegen  die  andere  Welt  abschliessen  zu  konnen. 

Und  auf  diesem  Standpunkt  stehendenn  auch  augenscheinlich 
Graf  Goluchowski  und  jene,  deren  Ansichten  er  zugleich  zum 
Ausdruck  verhalf. 

Was  fur  Deutschland  bei  einem  wirtschaftlichen  Kampfe 
mit  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  auf  dem  Spiele  stande,  mag  in 
zwei  Zahlen  angedeutet  werden. 

1894/95  bezog  Deutschland  annahernd  fiir  91  Millionen 
Dollars  Guter  aus  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  ;  Deutschland  steht 
mit  diesem  Betrage  an  zweiter  Stelle  unter  alien  Staaten  ;  es 
folgt  Frankreich  an  dritter  Stelle  mit  44  Millionen  Dollars  ; 
und  es  exportirte  Deutschland — wiederum  an  zweiter  Stelle — 
fiir  rund  81  Millionen  Dollars  nach  den  Vereinigten  Staaten, 
wahrend  Frankreich  mit  iiber  61  Millionen  Dollars  dann  folgt. 
England  nimmt  beide  Male  die  erste  Stelle  ein.*  Welcher 
Ersatz  konnte,  von  allem  Anderen  abgesehen,  lockend  genug 

*  The  statesman's  Year  Rrok,  1896. 


POLITISCHES   IN    DEUTSCHER  BELEUCHTUNG.  299 

fur  Dsutschland  sein,  um  diese  vvirtschaftliche  Verbindung 
ganz  Oder  teilweise  aus  eigener  Entschliessung  in  Frage  zii 
stellen  ? 

In  amerikanischen  Blattern  hat  die  Rede  des  Grafen 
Goluchowski  begreiflicherweise  lebhafte,  aber  keine  freund- 
liche  Beachtung  gefunden.  Doch  allzu  ernst  hat  man  sie  auch 
nicht  genommen,  und  das  wol  mit  Recht.  Die  Schwierigkeiten, 
die  zu  uberwinden  waren,  sind  so  ungeheure,  dass  man  nicht 
zu  befurchten  hat,  es  wurde  fur  Europa  oder  fiir  Teile  von 
Europa  moglich  sein,  ans  Ziel  zu  kommen.  In  der  Tat,  zu 
befurchten  hat ;  denn  gelange  ein  derartiger  Plan,  so  wiirde 
er  der  machtigste  und  ganz  sicher  ein  erfolgreicher  Anstoss 
sein,  um  gleichfalls  einen  Zollbund  zwischen  England  und 
seinen  Kolonien  und  einen  panamerikanischen  Zollbund  ins 
Leben  zu  rufen  :  Schopfungen,  die  nicht  eine  Vorbedingung 
gedeihlicher  wirtschaftlicher  Entfaltung,  sondern  die  Vor- 
bedingung gigantischer  wirtschaftlicher  Kriege  sein  wiirden. 

Man  war  ein  Mai  in  Europa  bei  einem  derartigen  Ziel 
angelangt,  das  war,  als  Napoleon  I.  durch  ein  Decret — 
traurigen  Andenkens — aus  Berlin  vom  21.  November  1806  den 
Kampf  gegen  den  britischen  Handel  begann  und  in  weiterem 
Ausbau  bis  zur  Continentalsperre  gelangte,  die  dann  doch 
versagte.  Dem  eisernen  Zwang  und  der  Vergewaltigung 
gelang  das,  und  der  eiserne  Zwang  und  die  Vergewaltigung 
wurden  wol  nur  von  Neuem  iiber  die  berechtigten  inneren 
Schwierigkeiten  hinweg  zu  diesem  Ziel  vorubergehend  ge- 
langen  konnen.  Ein  solcher  Ausgang  braucht  nicht  erortert 
zu  werden, 

Nicht  in  dem  Erreichen  liegt  die  Gefahr,  sondern  in  dem 
Anstreben.  Schon  damit  kann  in  einem  bedenklichen  Grade 
gegenseitiges  wirtschaftliches  UebelwoUen,  politische  Verstim- 
mung  und  politische  Missverstandnisse  erzeugt  werden.  In 
solche  phantastischen  und  zu  bedenklichen  Enttauschungen 
fiihrende  Bahnen  einzulenken,  hat  kein  entwickelter  euro- 
paischer  Staat  ein  reales  Interesse. 

Die  New  Yorker  Evening  Post  setzt  ein  solches  Interesse  nur 
bei  Russland  voraus — 

It  is  most  probable  that  Count  Goluchowski  had  a  perfect  understanding 
\yith  Russia  before  he  nr^ade  his  speech^ 


3O0  COSMOPOLIS. 

Vielleicht ;  denn  an  der  Isolirung  Englands  hat  Russland 
ein  politisches,  und  an  dem  Ausschluss  uberseeischer  Agrar- 
produkte  hat  es  ein  starkes  wirtschaftliches  Interesse. 

Graf  Goluchowski  aber  hat  gerade  im  Augenblick  Gelegen- 
neit,  zu  beobachten,  wie  schwer  es  ist,  auch  nur  die  beiden 
Reichshalften,  fur  die  er  die  politische  Verantwortung  tragt, — 
Oesterreich  und  Ungarn, — zusammenzuhalten  ;  denn  starke 
ungarische  Parteien  sind  daran,  die  WiiTen  in  Oesterreich  zu 
benutzen,  um  das  eigene  Vaterland  politisch  und  wirtschaft- 
lich  zu  einer  Selbstandigkeit  zu  bringen,  die  an  Oesterreich  nur 
durch  das  schmale  Band  der  Personalunion  gekniipft  sein  soil. 
Diese  Tatsache  sieht  wie  eine  kleine  Ironie  auf  die  Schluss- 
wendungen  der  Rede  des  Graf  en.  Goluchowski  aus. 

Es  wird  wol  auch  in  Zukunft  dabei  bleiben,  dass  die  moderne 
wirtschaftliche  Entwicklung  und  die  Entwicklung  der  Kultur 
am  besten  ihre  Rechnung  findet  bei  einem  verstandigen 
Freihandelssystem  mit  Handelsvertragen  von  Fall  zu  Fall 
und  bei  ausserhalb  der  europaischen  Civilisation  stehenden 
Volkern,  je  nach  Lage  der  Verhaltnisse,  auch  ein  Mai  durch  ein 
energisches  politisches  Zugreifen,  wie  es  von  Deutschland 
durch  die  Besetzungder  Buchtvon  Kiau-Tschau  in  China  jetzt 
hat  angewendet  werden  mussen. 

IGNOTUS. 

KRLIX,   i6,  Dczcmbcr  1897. 


LITERARY    BULLETIN. 


BOO 

Impressions  of  South  Africa.  By 
James  Bkyce.  (Macinilian.  14s. 
net.) 

The  vexed  question  of  South  Africa  is 

licre  attacked  by  a  writer  who  is  at  once 

a  historian,  a  traveller,  and  a  statesman. 

The  book  is  written  in  a  sane,  lucid,  and 

inlercsting    style,    and  deals   with    the 

questions  of  climate,  i*ace,  and  foreign 

:»ettlement,  as  they  affect  the  present  and 

the  future    of    South    Africa,    from  iui 

economic  and  a  social  point  of  view.  Mr. 

iiryce's  attitude   is  severely  impartial  ; 

whether  he  treats  of  the  history  of  the 

country   up   to   the   present  day,  of  its 

immediate  difiticulties,  or  of  its  destiny  in 

the  future,  he  is  equally  careful  not  to 

connnit    himself,  to  any  expression   of 

party  opinion.    This  restraint  adds  value 

to  a   work  already   possessing  a   wide 

interest  and  considerable  power. 

William  the  Silent.  By  Frederic 
Harkison.  Foreign  Statesman 
Series.  (Macmillan.  2s.  6d.) 
Mr.  Frederic  Harrison  thoroughly 
uudcrbtands  the  art  of  condensation. 
He  gives,  in  some  two  hundred  pages,  a 
vivid  picture  of  one  of  the  most  momen- 
tous periods  in  history.  His  book  is  not 
a  series  of  dry  facts,  but  a  cx>ncise  and 
uioat  interesting  study  in  the  character 
ul  a  great  man.  The  histories  of  nations 
arc  written  in  the  lives  of  their  great 
men,  and  such  clear  and  scholarly  work 
as  this  of  Mr.  Harrison  goes  far  towards 
making  us  realise  the  weighty,  complex, 
and  subtle  personality  of  "  William  the 
Silent,"  founder  of  the  United  States  of 
the  Netherlands,  defier  of  Philip  H.  of 
Spain,  and  advocate  of  religious  tolera- 
tion and  libirr 


KS. 

Letters  of  Dante  Gabriel  Kossetti 
TO  \V.  Allincjham.  Edited  by  Dr 
HiRKBECK    Hill.      (Fisher  Unwin 

I2S.) 

These  letters  are  a  valuable  addition  to 
our  knowledge  of  D.  G.  Kossetti.  They 
are  charming  in  tlieir  frankness  and 
humour,  and  they  throw  light  -^n  many 
of  the  interesting  personalities  of  the 
day  :  Ruskin,  Tennyson,  Browning,  and 
the  members  of  the  Pre  -  Raphaelite 
Brotherhood.  Dr.  Birkbeck  Hill  has 
done  his  duty  as  an  editor  in  a 
thoroughly  conscientious,  if  somewhat 
laboured  manner.  But  all  lovers  of  D. 
G.  Kossetti,  as  painter  and  poet,  will 
welcome  this  new  volume. 

A  History  of  French  Literature. 
By  Edward  DoWden,  D.  Litt., 
LL.D.  Short  Histories  of  the 
Literatures  of  tlie  World.  Edited 
by  E.  GossE.    (Heinemann.    69.) 

\  history  of  French  literature  which 
is  compressed  into  less  than  500  pages 
must  necessarily  be  rather  a  book  of 
reference  than  a  history  in  the  wider 
sense  ;  but  Professor  Dowden  gives  us, 
more  especially  when  dealing  with 
writers  of  the  eighteenth  and  nineteenth 
centuries,  some  personal  criticisms  which 
relieve  the  somewhat  dry  character  of 
the  book.  His  sympathies  are  evidently 
less  with  the  school  of  Voltaire  than 
with  that  of  Rousseau,  and  he  does,  per- 
haps, scant  justice  to  Bal/ac,  and  a  little 
more  than  justice  to  Hugo,  of  whom  he 
treats  at  some  length,  acknowledging  to 
the  full  his  inlluence  on  the  French 
literature  of  this  century,  as  novelist, 
poet,  and  dramatist.  The  book  will  be 
of  great  use  to  students  who  can  supple- 


3^2 


COSMOPOLIS. 


ineiit  it  with  more  detailed  studies  in  the 
various  periods,  and  it  includes  a  good 
index  and  bibliography. 

Life  of  Ernest  Rexax.    By  Madame 
Darmesteter.    (Methuen.    6s.) 

Madame  Darmesteter  has  given  us  a 
life  of  Renan  which  reads  like  a  page  of 
romance  ;  and  is  yet  an  excellent  ex- 
ample of  balanced  and  impartial  bio- 
graphy. It  is  evident  that  she  has  a 
great  admiration  for  Kenan's  genius  ; 
but  she  never  allows  her  judgment  to  be 
obscured  by  her  sympathy  ;  and  her 
criticisms  arc  sound  and  thoughtful, 
showing  an  extensive  knowledge  of 
Renan's  works.  Her  own  literary  gifts 
are  happily  employed  in  doing  honour 
to  the  memory  of  a  great  man. 

The  School  for  Saints.  By  Johx 
Oliver  Hobues.  (Fisher  Unwin. 
6s.) 

John  Oliver  Hobbes's  writing  has 
always  been  original,  witty,  and  full  of 
distinction ;  but  in  "  The  School  for 
Saints  "  she  has  attained  a  breadth  and 
a  seriousness  which  have  been  lacking 
in  some  of  her  early  clever,  though  per- 
haps rather  experimental  work.  "The 
School  for  Saints"  treats  of  religion  and 
politics  ;  the  hero's  youth  is  passed  in 
France,  and  the  description  of  his  lonely 
life  in  a  little  Breton  town  is  full  of 
romantic  charm.  The  characters,  espe- 
cially that  of  Disraeli,  who  figures  as 
the  hero's  friend,  arc  drawn  with  bril- 
liant precision,  and  sympathetic  insight. 
There  is  thought  in  the  book,  and  irony, 
and  tenderness  ;  and,  above  all,  a  robust 
sanity,  which  quality  is  rare  among 
writers  of  the  present  day.  We  look 
forward  to  the  promised  sequel  with  a 
great  interest. 

Studies  ix  Two  Literatures.  By 
Arthur  Symoxs. 
Mr.  Symons  has  wide  sympathies  in 
literature,  and  gives  us  studies  ranging 
from  Shakespeare  and  the  Elizabethan 
writers  down  to  those  of  the  present 
day,  both  P'rench  and  English.  He  is, 
perhaps,  at  his  best  in  dealing  with 
contemporary  literature,  and  his  essays 
on  Pater  and  Christina  Rossetti  are  full 
of  charm  of  style  and  a  delicate  appreci- 
ation. One  wishes  that  his  notes  on 
French  writers  had  been  of  less  blight  a 


character  ;  as  it  is,  they  are  only  enough 
to  indicate  an  understanding  and  interest, 
which  might  lead  to  noteworthy  criticism 
were  Mr.  Symons  to  expand  his  subject. 
His  "  Note  on  Zola's  Method  '*  is  the  most 
serious  of  his  studies  in  French  literature, 
and  it  is  exceedingly  clever. 

The  Beth  Book.    By  Sarah   Grand. 
(Heinemann.    6s.) 

If  the  "  novel  with  a  purpose  "  be  the 
ideal  in  fiction,  Madame  Grand  must  be 
congratulated  on  coming  within  an  ap- 
preciable distance  of  it  in  "  The  Beth 
Book."  Her  purpose  is  quite  clear,  and 
has  been  aired  before  in  the  pages  of 
"The  Heavenly  Twins."  She  is  even 
more  outspoken,  and  fearless  in  her  dis- 
regard of  conventional  delicacy,  in  "  The 
Beth  Book"  than  in  her  former  work, 
and  we  cannot  but  be  astonished  at  her 
laborious  perseverance ;  for,  after  the 
manner  of  the  "  Realists,"  Madame  Grand 
omits  nothing,  and  her  work  is  photo- 
graphic in  its  fidelity  to  detail.  To  those 
who  prefer  that  the  discussion  of  serious 
and  unpleasant  social  problems  should 
be  carried  on  under  the  cloak  of  fiction, 
"  The  Beth  Book  "  will  be  entirely  satis- 
factory. 

Style.  By  Walter  Raleigh.   (Edward 
Arnold.) 

We  feel  that  Mr.  Raleigh  is  justified 
in  adding  to  the  literature  on  style  that 
already  exists  ;  for  his  study  is  full  of 
suggestion,  and  is  original  both  in 
thought  and  manner.  He  looks  on  the 
question  of  style  from  the  point  of  view 
of  the  artist  and  the  scholar.  He  dis- 
proves that  fallacy  of  the  ignorant,  who 
contend  that  style  is  the  enemy  oi 
thought,  and  shows  us  how  it  is  rather 
**  the  gesture  of  the  mind  and  soul.'*  His 
book  is  worthy  of  careful  reading,  and 
we  recommend  it  both  to  the  littcratcitr, 
and  to  that  portion  of  the  public  which 
is  interested  in  the  more  subtle  aspects 
of  literature. 

Studies  ix   Fraxkxess.     By  Charles 
Whibley.    (Heinemann.    6s.) 

A  writer  of  clear,  vigorous,  and  felici- 
tous prose,  Mr.  Whibley  has  also  a  flair 
for  the  curious,  the  unexplored  in  liter- 
ature, and  treats  of  authors  as  little 
known  to  the  general  reading  public  as 
Petronius,  Heliodorus,  Herondas,  and  Sir 


LITERARY   HL'LLETIN, 


303 


Thouias  Crquhart  ;  and  on  the  other 
hand  of  such  classics  as  Lucian,  Rabelais, 
Sterne,  and  Poe  ;  defending  their  frank- 
ness in  speech  and  in  choice  of  subject 
on  the  ground  that  such  outspokenness 
is  the  privilege  of  genius.  Perhaps  the 
best  part  of  a  book  that  is  excellent 
throughout  is  the  introduction,  in  which 
Mr.  Whibley  falls  on  the  Puritan  who 
would  define  literature  as  "  an  exponent 
of  the  ethical  life,"  and  slays  him  with  a 
double-edged  sword  of  wit  and  common 
bense. 

Modern  France.  1789 — 1895.  ^y 
Andre  Lebon.  The  Story  of  the 
Nations.    (T.  Fisher  Unwiii.    5s.) 

Monsieur  Lebon  has  compressed  a 
very  large  amount  of  knowledge  and 
thought  into  a  small  space.  His  account 
of  events  from  1789  to  1895  derives  its 
force  and  vitality  from  the  fact  that  his 
method  is  based  on  a  system  of  logical 
reasoning  and  careful  judgment.  The 
writer  with  theories,  whether  they  be 
right  or  wrong,  has  an  arresting  quality 
often  wanting  in  the  more  impartial 
historian  ;  and  Monsieur  Lebon  makes  a 
claim  on  our  interest  and  attention  to 
which  we  cannot  fail  to  respond.  The 
arrangement  of  the  book  is  clear  and 
orderly  ;  at  the  end  of  each  period  there 
is  a  short  critical  survey  of  letters,  arts, 
and  sciences,  with  an  account  of  those 
who  have  most  influenced  literature  and 
politics  ;  these  notices  are  supplemented 
by  a  chronological  chart  of  the  literary, 
artistic,  and  scientific  movement  in 
contemporary  France,  and  a  chronologi- 
cal list  of  governments  and  ministries  in 
France  from  1780  to  1895.  The  book 
will  be  valuable  to  all  students  of  French 
history. 

Montaigne  and  Shakspeare.  By 
John  M.  KoiiERTSON.  (London 
University  Press.     5s.) 

The  position  taken  up  by  Mr.  Robert- 
son is  interesting,  and  to  a  certain  point 
defensible.  That  Shakspeare  was  well 
acquainted  with  the  writings  of  Mon- 
taigne is  probable,  but  that  he  should 
have  been  influenced  by  his  great  con- 
temporary to  the  degree  suggested  by 
Mr.  Robertson,  seems  unlikely.  Mr. 
Robertson  traces  many  interesting  re- 
seni*r»lances  between  certain  passages  in 


the  essays,  and  certain  passages  in  the 
plays  ;  but  he  does  not  appear  to  have 
taken  in  the  simple  fact  that  great  men 
of  au  age  often  think  alike,  and  can 
do  so  without  laying  themselves  open  to 
a  charge  of  plagiarism.  But,  on  the 
whole,  Mr.  Robertson's  book,  if  not 
wholly  convincing,  is  verj'  good  reading, 
and  shows  that  he  writes  with  a  thorough 
knowledge  of  both  great  authors. 

BOOKS    RECEIVED. 

XippuR  ;  OR,  Explorations  and  Ad- 
ventures ON  the  Euphrates.  By 
John  Punnett  Peters,  Ph.D.,  Sc.D., 
D.D.    Two  vols.    (G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons.) 

The  Dungeons  ok  Old  Paris.  By 
TiGHE  Hopkins.  (Putnam's  Sons. 
7s.  6d.) 

Robert  E.  Lee.  By  Henry  Alex- 
ander White,  M.A.,  Ph.D.,  D.D.  (G.  P. 
Putnam's  Sons.    5s.) 

Xeohellenic  L.vnguage  and  Litera- 
ture. By  Platon  E.  Drakoules.  (B. 
H.  Black  well,  Oxford.) 

The  Principles  of  Criticis.m.  By 
\V.  Basil  Worsfold.    (George  Allen.) 

Affirmations.  By  Havelock  Ellis. 
(Walter  Scott.    6s.) 

All  About  Animals.  With  240 
lull -page  illustrations.  (Newncs  &  Co. 
los.  6d.) 

The  Anglican  Revival.  By  J.  H. 
Overton,  D.D.  The  Victorian  Era 
Series.    (Blackie  &  Son.    2s.  6d.) 

The  Rise  of  Democr.\cy.  By  J. 
Holland  Rose,  M.A.  The  Victorian 
Era  Series.    (Blackie  &  Son.    Js.  6d.) 

The  Story  of  the  Potter.  Being 
a  Popular  Account  of  the  Rise  and  Pro- 
gress of  the  Principal  Manufactures  of 
Pottery  and  Porcelain  in  all  parts  of  the 
W^orld,  with  some  description  of  Modern 
Practical  Working.  By  Charle.s  F. 
BiNNs.  Fifty-seven  illustrations.  (George 
Xewnes.     is.) 

We  Mortals.  A  Play  in  Three  Acts. 
By  M.  Salmonsen.  (Chicago  :  J.  M. 
Jones.) 

A  Short  History  of  British  Colo- 
nial Policy.  By  Hugh  Edward 
Egerton,  M..V.     (Methueii.     I2s.  6d.) 


304 


COSMOPOLIS. 


A  History  of  Ancient  Gkkek 
Literature.  By  Gilbert  Murray, 
M.A.     (Heinemann.    6s.) 

A  Short  History  of  Modern  EnAish 
Literature.  By  Edmund  Gossk. 
(Heinemann.    63.) 

The  Work  of  Charles  Keene. 
With  Introduction  and  Comuients  by 
Joseph  Pennell,  and  numerous  Pictures 
illustrative  of  the  Artist's  method  and 
vein  of  humour  ;  to  which  is  added  a 
Bibliography  of  Selected  Works,  by  W. 
H.  Chesson.  The  edition  limited  to 
750  copies  (250  of  these  for  America)  : 


an  lordinary  edition  at  £^  13s.  6d.  net. 
and  15  copies  of  a  Hne  edition  at  £1$ 
15s.  net.  The  Hne  edition  consists  of 
an  ordinary  copy  in  superior  binding, 
such  copy  containing  an  original  draw- 
ing by  Keene  ;  also  a  duplicate  set  of 
pulls  of  the  pictures  on  India  paper  (in 
portfolio).     (T.  Fisher  L'nwin.) 

The  Printers  of  Basle  in  the 
Fifteenth  and  Sixteenth  Centuries. 
Their  Biographies,  Printed  Books  and 
Devices.  By  Charles  William  Hecke- 
thorn.  (T.  Fisher  Unwin.  F'oliu, 
illustrated,  buckram  gilt,  21s.  net.) 


NOTICES  OF  REVIEWS. 


The  Nineteenth  Century.  Decem- 
ber.— Undoubtedly  the  most  interesting 
article  in  this  number  for  foreign 
readers  is  TA^  Dual  and  TripU  Alliance 
and  Great  Britain^  by  M.  Francis  de  Pres- 
sense,  who  evidently  thinks  it  a  suicidal 
policy  on  the  part  of  the  last-named 
Power  to  remain  isolated  in  these  days 
of  vast  and  shifting  European  coalitions. 
The  writer's  arguments  are  in  favour  of 
a  second  "  Triple  "  Alliance  of  France, 
England,  and  Russia,  and,  believing 
our  traditional  suspicion  of  Russia  as  an 
ally  to  be  largely  exaggerated,  if  not  alto- 
gether unfounded,  he  foresees  on  the 
part  of  the  two  Continental  countries 
concerned,  no  insurmountable  obstacle 
to  the  realisation  of  a  new  balance  of 

power. Dr.    Jorgensen's    paper,    ./ 

Danish  View  of  the  Schleswig-Holstein 
Question,  has  aroused  nmch  incidental 
curiosity,  by  the  fact  of  its  having  been 
written  "at  the  desire  of  an  exalted  per- 
sonage in  this  country  (England)  inter- 
ested in  the  Danish  side  of  the  question." 
In  substance,  the  article  is  an  answer  to 
Professor  Max  MuUer's   views   on   this 

episode  of  modern  history. Tammany^ 

by  Mr.  F.  A.  Mackenzie,  is  an  impartial 
survey  of  the  future  that  lie^  open  before 
the  recently  elected  municipality  of 
New  York.  The  writer  does  not  give 
up  the  case  as  hopeless,  but  he  has 
grave  reasons  f(ir  fearing  that  the  temp- 
tations in  the  way  of  upright  government 
may  prove  too  strong.  "  In  the  Greater 
New  York,"  he  says,  "  with  its  three 
million  people,  its  enormous  patronage, 


and  immense  revenue,  an  incapable  or 
dishonest  administration  will  have  sucii 
power  of  plunder  and  wrong-doing  as 
the  Western  world  has  never  seen  be- 
fore." 

The  Fortnightly  Review.  Decem- 
ber. —  Again  we  have  a  by  no  means 
unfriendly  French  criticism  of  British 
affairs.  1  Baron  R.  Pierre  de  Coubertin 
has  a  full  knowledge  of  his  subject,  and 
treats  it  in  a  large  and  philosophical 
spirit.  To  Englishmen,  the  most  attrac- 
tive part  of  his  essay  entitled  "  A  French 
View  of  the  British  Empire,"  is  that 
in  which  he  discusses  the  question 
whether  the  supremacy  of  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  race  is  ultimately  to  find  its  centre 
in  New  York  or  London.  There  are 
many  reasons,  the  writer  thinks,  for 
prophesying  that  America  may  become 
the  paramount  Anglo-Saxon  country  of 
the  future  ;  among  them  he  notes  the  fact 
that  emigrants  and  colonists  from  Great 
Britain — more  particularly  from  Scotland 
and  Ireland — gradually  lose  any  sense  of 
hostility  to  America  and  the  Americans 
with    which    they  may  have    left    the 

Mother-country. In  his  paper  on  The 

Influence  of  Henry  George  in  England^ 
Mr.  J.  A.  Hobson  points  out  the  cxiuses  of 
Mr.  Henry  George's  success  and  popular- 
ity in  this  country.  He  assures  us  that 
this  American  political-economist  and 
politician  has  exercised  "  a  more  directly 
powerful,  formative,  and  educative  influ- 
ence over  English  Radicalism  of  the  last 

tilteen  years  than  any  other  man." • 

Mile.  Blaze  de  Bury  writes  pleasantly  of 


LITERARY  BULLETIN. 


305 


M.  Mounet  Sully's  life  and  work.  Lively 
and  anecdotic,  her  paper  is  an  agreeable 
contribution  to  the  great  actor's  "  legend." 

The  Rev.  W.  Greswell  gives  some 

soberly- worded  pages  to  the  Anglo- 
French  question  in  West  Africa.  It  is, 
he  thinks,  only  on  the  lines  of  mutual 
concession  that  a  satisfactory  agreement 
between  the  two  Powers  can  be  arrived 

at. "  Germanicus  "  discusses,  from  the 

German  point  of  view,  the  present  parlia- 
mentary dead-lock  in  Austria. 

The  Contemporary  Review. —  "  A 
New  Radical "  opens  the  December 
number  of  this  review  with  a  paper  in 
dialogue  form  called  Wanted — a  Policy. 
The  leaders  of  the  Liberal  party  are 
dealt  with  most  unceremoniously,  and 
the  writer's  main  argument  is  that,  if  their 
party  is  to  be  saved  from  political  ruin, 
they  must  boldly  adopt  a  "  labour  "  pro- 
gramme.  Another  contribution  of  in- 
terest is  Liberal  Catholicism  by  "  Komanus." 
The  article  is  a  dignified  and  discreet 
exposition  of  the  difficulties  for  Liberal 
Catholics  raised  by  the  Pope's  recent 
letter  on  the  Bible.  As  we  arc  told  by 
the  writer  that  educated  Catholics  in 
England  can  no  longer  be  forced  "to 
affirm  that  there  are  no  statements  in 
the  Old  and  New  Testaments  which  are 
historically  untrue,"  it  is  difficult  to  see 
that  any  other  alternative  lies  open  to 

them  but  to  retire  from  the  fold. Mr. 

Joseph  Pennell  answers  at  some  length 
the  question  whether  Photography  is 
a  Fine  Art.  We  are  left  in  no  doubt  as 
to  his  own  opinion.  **  Unless,"  he 
writes,  "  a  man  can  draw  with  his  own 
unaided  hand  he  is  not  an  artist,  he 
never  has  l>een  considered  an  artist,  and 
never  will  be." Lastly  we  may  men- 
tion the  unexpected  entertainment  we  de- 
rived from  Mr.  T.  E.  Dillon's  description 
of  the  first  great  Russian  Census^  which 

took  place  last  January. Sir  Walter 

Besant,  in  his  article  The  Farm  and  the 
City^  bears  witness  to  the  social  work 
of  the  Salvation  Army.  He  believes  it 
to  be  "a  plain^ duty  to  bear  witness  to 
things  seen  and  examined  and  proved  "  ; 
and  he  affirms  that  "the  machinery 
invented  by  him  (General  Booth)  is  the 
most  practical  and  the  most  promising, 
and  already  the]most  fruitful  of  results, 

VOL.   IX.— NO.  XXV. 


that)  has  ever  been  imagined  or  de- 
signed." 

The  National  Review.— It  is  hard 
to  imagine  a  more  odious  r^^tme  than 
that  described  by  Mr.  John  Foreman 
in  his  paper  on  The  State  of  Spain  under 
the  late  Ministry.  We  learn  from  it 
that  the  press  was  gagged ;  that  the 
taxes  on  commodities  were  arbitrarily 
raised,  and  rented  out  to  irresponsible 
"  sweaters,"  who  seem  in  many  instances 
to  have  goaded  the  townspeople  to  open 
insurrection  ;  that  under  the  plausible 
pretext  of  anarchism,  the  property,  and 
even  the  lives,  of  private  citizens  were 

no  longer  amenable  to  law. The  Hon. 

Alfred  Lyttelton  upholds  the  existing 
system  by  which  a  prisoner  in  the 
English  law  courts  is  not  allowed  to  give 
evidence.  In  the  light  of  a  notorious 
case  lately  re-opened  to  discussion,  the 
following  argument  loses  none  of  its 
force — namely,  that  the  present  system 
"keeps  clearly  defmed  the  cardinal 
principle  of  the  law  that  the  prosecution 
must  establish  beyond  rational  doubt 
the  guilt  of  the  prisoner,  and  prevent 
confusion  of  that  question  by  the  investi- 
gation of  another — viz.,  is  the  prisoner 
more  credible  than  the  prosecutor  ? " 
The  writer  goes  on  to  suggest  a  sort 
of  compromise,  partially  made  use  of 
in  practice,  by  which  the  prisoner  may 
make  (on  his  own  choosing)  explanatory 
statements  relative  to  the  evidence, 
either  as  the  case  against  him  proceeds 
or  at  its  termination. 

Century  Magazine.  December.— Mr. 
Lewis  Frazer  contributes  an  illustrated 
paper  on  The  Work  of  Fritz  von  Uhde^ 
the  famous  Saxon  painter  of  sacred 
personages  in  modern  circumstances  and 

surroundings. Mr.  Francis  A.  Walker 

writes  a  thoughtful  essay  on  The  Causes 
of  Poverty  in  large  towns.  He  avoids 
the  usual  panaceas,  and  advocates  the 
common  sense  remedies,  such  as  more 
practical  and  useful  primary  education, 
stricter  hygienic  control,  and,  above  all, 
the  patience  which  trusts  to  the  healing 

virtues    of    time. Mr.    V.    C.    Scott 

O'Connor  has  a  paper  on  Tennyson  and 
his  Friends  at  Freshwater.  The  illustra- 
tions which  accompany  this  article  arc 
excellent. 

20 


3o6 


COSMOPOLIS. 


Cassier's  Magazine.  November. — 
The  Engineer ing  Dispute ^hy  Colonel  H.  C. 
S.  Dyer,  and  The  Machint  Question  and 
Eight  Hours,  by  Mr.  B.  Taylor,  help 
to  throw  searching  light  on  some 
of  the  naturally  obscure  or  artificially 
obscured  points  in  the  great  dispute. 
The  competence  and  knowledge  of  these 
writers  make  these  two  articles  a  really 
authoritative  statement  of  the  employers' 
grievances,  and  motives  in  withstanding 
the  demands  of  the  Amalgamated  Society 
of  Engineers. 

NoKTH  American  Review.  Novem- 
ber.— Mr.  Gosse  appreciates  the  recently 
published  Life  of  Tennyson.  Mr.  Gosse's 
expectation  of  what  such  a  work  should 
be,  would  certainly  be  exacting,  and 
we  are  glad  to  know  that  he  finds  this 
book  worthy  of  the  great  name  it  bears. 

Mr.  Nixon,  in  his  article,  The  Com- 

mercial  Value  of  the  Shipyard^  records  the 
unflagging  and  successful  determination 
of  Great  Britain  to  maintain  her  ample 
supremacy  as  a  shipbuilding  and  trade- 
carrying    power. The   Hun.  Hannis 

Taylor,  reviewing   the   Cuban   question 


from  the  stand-point  of  American  interest 
and  duty,  denounces  the  incompetence 
uf  Spain  cither  to  reconquer  her  lost 
colony,  or  to  grant  it  an  effective  self- 
jgovernment.  In  spite  of  his  indictment, 
he  bolicves  that  firmly  applied  moral  per- 
suasion on  the  part  of  the  United  States 
may  still  be  able  to  restore  order  without 
loss  of  dignity  to  Spain. 

The  Forum.— Dr.  Walter  Wyman 
attempts  to  prove  that  the  yellow  fever 
could  be  stamped  out  if  its  chief  breed- 
ing-place, Havana,  were  thoroughly 
purified.  This,  he  argues,  could  be  done 
as  effectually  as  it  has  been  done  in  the 

case  of  Vera  Cruz. Mr.  Fredk.  Palmer 

examines  the  causes  of  the  late  rout  in 
Thessaly.  He  believes  jealousy  among 
the  colonels,  and  the  consequent  im- 
possibility of  appointing  a  responsible 
commander-in-chief,  to  have  been  the 
fundamental  reason  of  the  collapse  of  the 
Greek  anny. Mr.  J.  G.  Carlisle  criti- 
cises the  defects  of  the  electoral  s>'stem  in 
America,  with  particular  regard  to  the 
Presidential  elections. 


BULLETIN    LITTfiRAIRE. 


BIBLIOGRAPHIE. 


Ix)Uis  DoLLn'ET :  Sale  Juif!  (Armand 

Colin.) 

Ce  roman  au  titre  ironiquc  est  un 
roman  4  these.  L'auteur  a  voulu  mon- 
trer  comment,  dans  notre  society  demo- 
cratique  modeme  qui  pretend  juger 
uniquement  d'apres  la  valeur  intellec- 
tuelle  ct  morale,  un  Juif,  fut-il  de  premier 
merite  et  librc  lui-meme  de  tout  prejuge, 
demeure  un  etre  a  part  qui  ne  peut  se 
marier  en  dehors  de  sa  caste  et  qui  est 
contraint  d  y  demeurer  incorpore  par 
toutes  les  routines  de  la  vie  civilisee 
actuelle,  en  mcme  temps  qu'il  y  est 
naturellement  invite  par  I'heredite  la 
plus  intime.  Malgr^  quelque  incertitude 
dans  le  plan  et  la  marche  de  Taction,  Ic 
livre  est  interessant  et  contient  de  cu- 
rieuses  peintures  de  la  vie  Israelite. 

Charles  Bfa'oist:  L'Espafitie,  Cuba  ct 
lea  EtafS'Unis.  (Perrin.) 

C'est  la  reunion  dc  plusieurs  articles 

parus  dans  la  Revue  des  Deux  Morules. 

I^'auteur,  appuy^  sur  une  documentation 

ubondante,      connait     personnellcment 

beaucoup  des  hdmmes  et  des  pays  dont 

il  parlc.    Son  ouvrage  est  d'une  rcelle 

importance  sur  la  question  qu'il  traite. 

Marcel  Dubois  et  J.-G.  Kergomard  : 
PtiScis  de  Gi^ographic  ccouontiquc. 
(Masson.) 

M.  Marcel  Dubois,  qui  a  deja  beau- 
coup  fait  pour  la  science  geographique, 
vient  de  publier  en  collaboration  avec 
M.  J.-G.  Kergomard  un  manuel  de  geo- 
graphic ^conomique  assez  etendu,  qui 
est  de  nature  a  rendre  de  grands  servi- 
ces, non  seulement  aux  etudiants,  mais  a 
toutes  les  personnes  qui  s'intvresscnt  a 


la  vie  generale  cconomique.  On  y  trouvc 
reunis  et  bien  classes  les  renseignements 
les  plus  recents  en  matiere  de  statistique 
agricole,  industrielle  et  commercialc. 

Poxs  de  L'HfeRACLT :  Souvettirs  et 
Anecdotes  de  I' He  (fElhc^  publics  par 
L^n  G.  Pelissier.    (Plon.) 

Pons  de  I'Hcrault,  vieux  republicain* 
etait  administrateur  des  mines  dans  I'lle 
d'Elbe  quand  Napoleon  en  fut  declare 
souverain.  II  fut  entierement  el  sincere- 
men  t  conquis  par  le  monarque  dechu  et 
nous  a  laisse  d'interessants  m^moires  sur 
son  sejour  dans  Tile.  lis  ont  une  valeur 
anecdotique  de  premier  ordre  et  s'adres- 
scnt  a  tous  ceux  que  passion  ne  la  figure 
du  grand  empereur.  On  comparera 
avec  interSt  certaines  parties  du  recit  dc 
Pons  avec  les  doaiments  publics  ici  meme 
par  M.  Marcotti.  11  faut  savoir  gre  a 
M.  Pelissier  de  sa  publication  bien  faite 
ct  utile. 

PaulLapie:  Lcs  Cirilisalions  Tunisienms, 
Mnsitl mans f  Israelites,  Europi^cns.  Etude 
dc  psychoh\ilic  zonalc.     (Aican.) 

Le  volume  de  M.  Lapie  est  une  etude 
non  seulement  sur  la  Tunisie  proprement 
dite,  maissur  tout  sur  les  races  qui  s'y  ren- 
contrent.  II  renferme  des  obser\'ations 
curieuscs  sur  iTime  juive  et  Tame  arabe. 
On  le  lira  avec  interet,  tout  en  faisant 
des  restrictions  quant  aux  generalisations 
excessives  que  l'auteur  se  permet  parfois. 

A.  Mezieres  (de  TAcadcmie  fran«;aise): 
Afor/s  et  Vivants.     (Hachette.) 

M.  A.  Mezieres  a  reuni  dans  ce  volume 
un  grand  nombre  d'etudes  biographiques 
(^u'il  a  publi^es  au  cours  de  ces  (lerniervs 


3o8 


COSMOPOLIS. 


annees.  EUes  portent  gen6ralement  sur 
des  personnages  du  i8*  et  du  19*  siecle. 
L'auteur  s'est  efforce  en  pages  braves 
de  les  presenter  sous  leur  jour  vrai  en 
leur  donnant  leur  veritable  valeur  histo- 
rique.  C'est  ce  qui  donne  a  ces  etudes, 
outre  leur  merite  litteraire,  un  merite 
scientifique.  Citons  en  particulier  le 
portrait  que  M.  A.  Mezieres  a  trace  du 
Marechal  Paskievitch,  le  grand  ami  du 
Tsar  Nicolas  i«'. 

J.    H.    RosNY :    La    Rupture.    (Plon    et 

Nourrit.) 

C'est  une  histoire  eternelle.  Un  homme 
marie  a  aime  une  jeune  fille.  Elle  s'est 
donnee  a  lui.  Hautaine,  apre  et  ardente, 
elle  pretend  en  echange  le  confisquer, 
faire  de  lui  sa  chose,  gouverner  leur  vie 
selon  les  loi»  uniques  de  leur  amour. 


Lui,  pere,  ne  veut  pas  abandonnei  ses 
enfants  et  meprise  celle  qui  n'en  a  point ; 
male  il  dedaigne  celle  qui  lui  a  cede, 
mesure  son  egoisme  mesquin,  aspire  a 
des  amours  nouvelles.  Et  peu  a  peu, 
a  travers  plusieurs  a  ventures  morales, 
la  bataille  ordinaire  des  sexes  s'engage 
et  se  denoue  :  c'est  la  Rupture.  Eter- 
nellement  blessee,  la  femme  disparait  sous 
d'autres  climats.  Polygame,  Thomme  se 
grise  d'un  nouvel  amour,  que  deja  il 
devine  ephemere.  M.  J.  H.  Rosny  a 
admirablement  renouvele  son  sujet. 
Quelquefois  dur  ou  heurte,  son  style  est 
souvent  tranchant  comme  un  scalpel  ; 
il  y  a  des  trouvailles  de  mots  et  de  pensee 
qui  font  tressaillir  comme  si  elles  etaient 
extraites  du  fond  de  I'ame  humaine,  la 
plus  dt«Fnel  et  le  plus  intimea 


THEATREa 


Bulletin  dramatique  trcs  charge  ce 
mois-ci. 

A  L'CEuvRE,  nous  avons  eu  Jean 
Gabriel  Borkman,  le  drame  puissant 
d'Ibsen,  traduction  du  comtc  Prozor. 
Sachons  gre  a  M.  Lugne  Po<3  des  efforts 
qu'il  tente  pour  faire  connattrc  aux 
lettres  parisiens  les  chefs-d'oeuvre  de  la 
litterature  etrangere. 

L'Opi^.ra  nous  a  donne  la  premifere 
tres  impatiemmcnt  attendue  des  Mailrcs 
Chaiiicurs  de  Richard  Wagner.  Accueil 
enthousiaste  et  grand  succes  d'interprc- 
tation  avec  Alvarez  et  Renaud. 

Les  Fiilcs  Michu  des  Bouffes  Pari- 
siens ne  sont  pas  sceurs,  comme  on 
pourrait  le  croire,  mais  elles  sont  char- 
mantes  toutes  les  deux  et  elles  ont  fourni 
a  M.  Messager  le  theme  d'une  partition 
toujours  fort  heureuse  et  remplie  de  jolis 
details. 

Aux  Menus-Plaisirs,  Antoine,  sous  le 
nom  de  Theatre-Antoine,  vient  de  faire 
revivre  en  partie  I'ancien  Th^tre-Libre 
avec  des  id^es  d'acclimatation  a  la  fois 
artistiques  et  trts  public  dont  il  faut  lui 
savoir  gre.  Grand  succes  avec  Blanchcttc 
ct  Boubouroche  et,  plus  recemment,  avec 


le  ^^5  du  Liottf  de  M.  de  Curel,  dont 
notre  eminent  coUaborateur  M.  Jules 
Lemattre,  rend  compte  aux  lecteurs  de 

COSMOPOUS. 

SaphOy  roBuvre  nouvelle  de  Massenet, 
a  et6  accueillie  a  I'OpiRA-CoMlQUB  avec 
grand  succes.  Le  c^lebre  roman  de 
Daudet,  anime  du  soufHe  de  grace  et  de 
passion  que  Ton  connait,  devait  se  preter 
admirablement  au  talent  de  l'auteur  de 
Mattoti.  Les  deux  derniers  tableaux, 
surtout,  ont  soulcve  d'unanimes  applau- 
dissements  et  Mile  Calv^  a  rencontr^  la 
un  de  ses  tres  bons  roles. 

Quant  a  la  Joucnsc  d'Orgi^,  reprdsen* 
tee  a  I'Ambigu,  il  nous  faudrait  une  page 
cntiere  pour  en  rendre  compte.  Ce 
drame  est  signe  Montepin  et  Donnay^ 
c'est  dire  qu'il  contient  tous  les  ^lementa 
necessaires  pour  assurer  le  succes  d'une 
piece  de  ce  genre. 

Mentionnons  encore  la  Carmagtudc, 
aux  Foues-Dramatiques  ;  une  bonne 
reprise  de  \^  Jcuncssc  dc  Louis  XIV,  au 
Gymnase  ;  et  une  reprise  moins  bril- 
lante  de  Rhotomago^  au  ChAtelet. 

Enfin  I'Odeon,  en  peine  de  nouvcau- 
t^s,  s'est  decide  J.  r^p^ndre  le  Ckcmi- 
ncau  ! 


BULLETIN    LITTERAiRE. 


309 


REVUE  DES  REVUES. 


Revue  des  Deux-Mondes,  i*'  eUcem- 
bre :  Dans  son  etude  sur  la  Monarchic 
auslro-hottgroisc  M.  Ch.  Benoist  etudie 
les  prindpaux  partis  qui  la  divisent  et 
les  hommes  qui  sont  a  la  tete  de  chacun. 
II  n'en  resumait  pas  moins  d'une  quin- 
zaine :  ce  chiffre  explique  en  meme 
temps  que  c'^tait  la  division  de  I'em- 
pire,  I'instabilite  parlementaire  qui  y 
est  inevitable.  En  plus  des  questions 
politiques  les  questions  de  nationalite 
sont  des  sources  de  di£Bculles  constantes. 
Les  hommes  sor  qui  M.  Ch.  Benoist 
f'arrfte  le  plus  longuement  sont  natu- 
rcllenient  le  comte  Badeni  et  le  comte 
Banffy  dont  il  nous  trace  un  portrait 
intcressant. — M.  J.Texte  etudie  V  Influence 
allcmandc  dans  le  Romantisme  fran^ais. 
11  examine  d'at)ord  la  connaissance  que 
les  romantiques  eurent  de  TAIlemagnc 
(elle  fut  restreinte,  quant  a  la  langue  et 
a  la  litterature  moderne  ;  assez  etendue 
quant  a  la  litterature  classique);  il  montre 
ensuite  comment,  de  1820  a  1830,  cette 
connaissance  aida  a  I'affranchissement 
du  theatre  en  particulier,  et  comment 
apres  cette  date  quelques  ecrivains  don- 
nerent  au  lyrisme  romantique  une 
impulsion  veritablement  caracteristique : 
tcls  furent  Goethe,  Schiller  et  Lessing 
au  premier  chef  et  ensuite  Hoffmann. — 
M.  T.  de  Wyzewa  etudie  le  Roman 
italicn  en  1897.  II  constate  la  situation 
predominante  de  M.  d'Annunzio  dans  la 
litterature  de  son  pays ;  ses  emules  ont 
generalement  subi  son  influence,  beau- 
coup  plus  encore  que  celle  de  M.  Lom- 
broso,  qui  est  sensible  cependant.  MM. 
Butti,  Zuccoii  et  Ciampoli  lui  semblent 
parmi  les  jeunes  ecrivains  les  plus  dignes 
d'attirer  notre  attention. — 15  ddcembrc: 
M.  V.  Cherbuiiez  commence  la  publica- 
tion de  son  roman  Jacquinc  Vancssc. — 
M.  T.  de  Wyzewa  consacre  un  article 
a  VAmUe  du  Gdniral  Grants  d  apres  le 
general  Horace  Porter.  II  y  rallle 
doucement  les  procedes  militaires  des 
l^eneraux  americains  et  les  compare 
auz  strat^es  atheniens  et  aux  consuls 
remains. 

Revxte  de  Paris,  i«  dccetnbre:  La 
Correspondance  echangee  entre  M. 
Berthelot  d'une  part  et  M.  Ernest 
Renan   et    Mile  Henriette    Renan    de 


Tautre  const! tue  Tinteret  principal  de 
ce  fascicule.  Cette  correspondance  dura 
de  1847  a  1892.  Les  lettres  publices  dans 
ce  fascicule  datent  du  \oyage  que  Renan 
fit  en  Orient  avec  sa  sceur. — M.  Daniel 
Halevy  public  la  deuxieme  partie  de  son 
article  sur  les  relations  de  Nietzsche  et 
de  Wagner.  — 15  d/cembre :  Outre  la 
suite  de  la  Correspondance  de  Renan,  de 
sa  sceur  et  de  M.  Berthelot,  la  revue  public 
des  papiers  inedits  du  marechal  Davoust 
sous  le  titre  Aprds  Waterloo ;  M.  Victor 
Berard  consacre  un  article  aux  Affaires 
de  Crtie ;  M.  Sidney  Webb,  I'auteur 
bien  connu  de  VHistoire  des  Trades 
Unions^  public  une  etude  sur  la  Gnerre 
industriclle  en  Anf^lctcrre.  II  y  etudie 
la  crise  qui  sevit  depuis  six  mois  en 
Angieterre  sur  les  industries  mecaniques. 
La  moderation  de  ses  opinions  rend  plus 
significatif  son  jugement. 

Le  Correspondant,  25  novcmbre :  M. 
Ernest  Daudet  termine  I'etude  qu'il  a 
consacrec  au  Due  d'Aumale^  a  la  succes- 
sion duquel  a  TAcademic  fraiKpaise  il  est 
candidat,  comme  on  sait. — Dans  une  etude 
intitulee  Autour  du  Monde  millionnairc 
amiricainy  M.  F.  E.  Johannet  donne  des 
details  intcrcssants  sur  I'aristocratie  en 
Amcrique.  II  faut  lire  en  particulier 
deux  pages  pteines  de  pittoresque  sur 
Ic  manage  Marlborough- Vanderbilt. — Le 
comte  J.  Grabinski  etudie  la  Triple 
Alliance  d'apres  le  livre  italien  du  scna- 
tcur  Chiala. — M.  Georges  Rodenbach 
dccrit  avec  un  charme  subtil  et  doux 
les  Bcguinagcs  dc  Flandrc. —  10  ddcem- 
brc :  M.  F.  E.  Johannet  poursuit  son 
etude  Autoiir  du  Monde  millionnaire 
amSricain,  —  M.  Dronsart  etudie  A. 
Tennyson. 

Revue  des  Revues,  i"  d^ccmbrc :  M. 
Napoleon  Ney  decrit  dans  un  curieux 
article  I'evasion  de  quelques  detenus  de 
rile  du  Diable,  ou  est  actuellement 
interne  le  capitaine  Dreyfus.  — 15  de- 
cembrc:  M.  Henry  Berenger  etudie  les 
Nouveaux.  Conteurs  frangais^  c*est-a-dire 
les  jeunes  ecrivains  qui  se  sont  affirmes 
dans  ces  dernieres  annees.  Leur  carac- 
teristique, dit-il,  est  d'etre  des  idealistes, 
"  c*est-a-dire,  que  le  spectacle  de  la  vie 
ne   leur  suffit  plus,  qu'ils    veulent   en 


310 


COSMOPOLtS. 


degager  ou  lui  iniposcr  une  significa- 
tion."— Le  comte  Stanislas  Rzewuski 
etudie  le  Mouvemeut  litUraire  russe,  II 
est  interessant  de  comparer  son  article 
avec  celui  que  M.  Halperine-Kaminsky 
a  ecrit  dans  Cosmopolis  sur  le  memo 
sujet. 

Revue  Hebdomadaire,  it  dkcmbrc  : 
M.  E.  Manceau  etudie  rAnti/e  dcs  Etats- 
Unis  iVAmMqnc.  EUe  n'existe  pas,  a 
proprement  parler  comme  armee,  son 
chififre  etant  trop  restreint.  Elle  pourrait 
servir  de  cadre  a  une  garde  nationale 
convenablement  organisee. 

Revue  Bleue,  20  novcmbre :  M. 
Georges  Lyon  resume  le  livre  de  Nf. 
Andler  sur  les  Origincs  du  Socialisme 
d*Eiat  en  Ailcmagnc.—M.  Aulard  donne 
un  croquis  de  I'etat  de  Paris  au  Icmicmain 
du  9  thcrmidor  :  la  chute  de  Robespierre 
fut  ensomme  accueillie  avec  insouciance  ; 
on  avait  soif  de  tranquillite  et  Ton  se  crut 
definitivement  protege  contre  un  retour 
eventuel  de  la  Terreur. —  11  dcccmbrc  : 
Etiquctc  sur  Ics  rcsfonsabilitfs  dc  In 
presse.  Plusieurs  personnages  en  vuc 
donnent  leur  opinion  sur  cette  question 
d'actualit^ ;  M.  R.  Poincare  declare : 
'*  Gardons  la  pressc  libre  dans  un  pays 
libre...  Le  dernier  mot  finira  toujours 
par  rester  a  la  raison  et  a  la  veritc." 
M.  Jules  Claretic  rappelle  le  mot  de 
Desmoulins  :  "  La  pressc  resscmble  ;i 
cette  lance  d'Achiile  qui  guerissait  les 
blessures  qu'elle  avait  faitcs."  MM. 
Clemenceau  et  Harres  se  prononcent  en 
somme  egalemcnt  pour  I'independance 
de  la  presse. 

Revue  ENCYCLoPKDiyrE,  II  </m;///;/r  .• 
M.  S.  Bing  etudie  VArchiUclinc  ct  lea  arts 
dicoratifs  en  Am/riguc,  —  M.  Camiilc 
Mauclair  donne  son  opinion  sur  la 
deniiere  piece  d' Ibsen  rccemment  jouec 
en  France  Jean  Gabriel  Borkman. — M. 
Mareuil  donne  une  esquisse  dc  I'histoirc 
de  la  Serbic  eonfemforaine. 

Revue  du  Palais,  i"  decembre :  M. 
de  Marcere,  ancien  ministre,  nous  donne 
ses  souvenirs  sur  Ic  16  mai. 

La  Nouvelle  Revue,  1*='  decembre: 
M.  Robert  de  Montesquiou  consacre 
quelques pages  a  Arnold Ha'ckliu,Y2Lvi\s{Q 
balois,  jusqu'ici  a  peu  pres  inconnu  en 
France,  et  qui  nest  pas  indigne  d'avoir  etc 


parfois  compare  ^  Holbein. — 15  d/ccmhre: 
M.  Pierre  Loli  esquisse  quelques  traits 
de  ce  pays  basque  qu'il  vient  de  quitter 
et  qu'il  a  decrit  dans  Ramuntcho  avec 
tant  de  charme  et  de  verity. — M.  Monte- 
corboli  fait  le  portrait  de  quelques 
actrices  italiennes  :  depuis  la  venue  de 
la  Duse  a  Paris  on  pent  croire  qu'elles 
interessent  le  public  fran^ais  ou  du 
moins  qu'il  veut  en  avoir  fair. — M.  L. 
Herbette  raconte  VEnlree  des  Pnissiens 
a  Paris  en  1871. 

Revue  Politique  et  Parlemen- 
TAIRE,  10  d/cembrc  :  M.  L.  Vignon  Audie 
le  Peril  j an ne. 

QiixzAiXE,  i«  d^cenibre :  M.  P. 
Bouges  etudie  la  Question  scolaire  anx 
Pays-Bas.  Les  catholiques  neerlandais 
s'efforcent  actuellement  d'obtenir  une 
liberte  entierede  I'enseignement.  Selon 
eux  I'Etat  ne  devrait  en  aucune  maniere 
avoir  la  main  sur  instruction  du  peuple. 
— M.  Jacques  de  Coussanges  consacre  un 
article  aux  derniercs  Elections  en  Sonrge. 

Revue  des  Jeunes  Filles,  5  dtccmbre : 
Mme  Stanislas  Meunier  donne  quelques 
pages  de  description  d'un  voyage  sur  les 
Routes  de  Rnssie. 

Le  Monde  Moderns,  i«'  decembre: 
Une  nouvelle  de  M.  Vigne  d'Octtm : 
Sigalette. 

Revue  de  P'rance,  i«f  decembre :  M. 
Jules  Maze  dans  Vuc  visite  an  champ  de 
bataille  dc  Sedan^  decrit,  avec  croquis  a 
I'appui,  I'aspect  actuel  du  champ  de 
bataille. — Dans  une  esquisse  des  Dessons 
dc  Londrcs^  M.  Henri  Viard  fait  une 
description  peu  tlattee  de  certaines 
categories  de  la  populace  anglaise. 

MeRcire  de  France,  i®'  decembre: 
136  ecrivains  ont  envoye  au  Mercnrc  tic 
FrancCy  leur  opinion  sur  UAlsacC' 
Lorraine  et  I'/tat  actuel  des  esptits.  11 
ne  faut  pas  attacher  de  portee  trop  con- 
siderable a  des  manifestations  de  cc 
genre.  Generalement  les  auteurs  de  ces 
confessions,  surtout  les  "jeunes,**  s'y 
montrent  dans  des  attitudes  voulues  et  ne 
songent  guere  qu'a  etonner  ou  a  edifier 
le  lecteur  par  la  nouveaute  ou  renergie 
de  leurs  appreciations ;  et  plus  d'un 
songe  principalement  a  donner  a  la 
sienne  une  originalite  sinon  dc  pensee  au 
moins  de  forme,  afin  qu'elle  ne  souffre 
pas  d'etre  placee  a    cote  de  celle  d'un 


BULLETIN   LITTKRAIRE. 


3^1 


concurrent.  Ceci  dit  d'une  manicrc 
gcnerale  FK>ur  toutes  les  consultations  dc 
ce  genre,  il  faut  rcconnaitre  que  celle  du 
Mcrciirc  merite  d'attirer  I'attention  et 
donne  ropinion  sinon  du  pays,  ou  d'une 
classc  du  pajrs,  au  moins  de  certaines 
individualites  interessantes  du  monde 
litteraire. 

Kkvue  Blanxhk,  I"  iUccmhrc ;  Mile 
Chauvin,  dont  les  dcbats  avec  le  barreau 
out  fait  tant  de  bruit,  cherche  les  idees 
de  Proudhon  et  de  Stuart  Mill  sur  la 
question  feministe. — 15  dA'cmbrc  :  Vn 
article  de  M.  Tarrida  del  Marmol  :  A  la 
reiiie  ifEspagrtc. 

Re\X'K  SociALisTK,  15  d^ccwbrc :  Une 
«tude  de  M.  A.  de  Pourvourville  sur  les 
Missionnains  chr/tictts  en  Chine. 

Revue  d'Art  Dramatiqik.  On  y 
lira  un  article  instructif  sur  Ccnx  qui 
miisent  a  Ibscu,  Puissent  les  snobs  dc 
lettres  vises  par  ces  pages  en  faire  leur 
profit !    Cela  est  douteux. 


Gazkttk  des  Beaix-Arts,  d/cembre  : 
M.  Henri  Frantz  donne  une  etude  sur 
IVilliiim  Morris.  Morris  est  assur^ment 
un  des  ccrivains  ou  des  artistes  anglais 
dont  on  s'est  le  plus  occupc  en  France 
dans  ces  dernieres  annccs. 

KKVUES  BELGES. 

Kkvie  Gkneralk,  I"  decembrc :  M. 
Prosper  Poullet  public  des  Rclaiions  iiu^- 
dites  sur  les  Dfbnts  de  la  Rh'olutiou 
belf^e  dc  1830. — M.  Henry  Bordeaux 
donne  de  jolies  Pe tiles  Xotes  sur  la  Vic 
modentc.  On  y  trouvera  entre  autres 
quelques  pages  amusantes  sur  les  snobs 
qui  out  eu  Thonneur  d'etre  defendus  par 
M.  Jules  lycmaitre.  M.  Henry  Bordeaux 
declare  le  snobisme  indefinissable,  mais, 
dit-il,  le  mot  se  comprend  de  soi-meme, 
et  Ton  ne  saurait  assez  flctrir  la  chose. 
II  faut  noter  encore  I'article  de  M.  E. 
Gilbert  sur  le  volume  que  M.  G.  Kaiser 
vient  de  consacrer  k  la  description  du 
Canada. 


LITTERARISCHES    BULLETIN. 


DIE  BUCHER  DES  MONATS. 


Studien  und  Meditationcn  voti  Ludwifl 
Bamberger  (der  Gesammelten  Schrif- 
ten  I.  Band).  Berlin  1898.  (Rosenbaum 
und  Hatt.) 

"Ja  w(»l,  es  gab  schonere  Zeiten  als 
diese  des  Zusammenbrechens  dcs  Er- 
rcichten  und  des  Vereitelns  desGehoff  ten ; 
wir  miissen  es  fertig  bringen,  auch  ohne 
Hoffnung  unsre  Schuldigkeit  zu  tun,"  so 
schrieb  kiirzlich  Theodor  Moinmsen  in 
einem  eben  verOffentlichten  Briefe  an 
Ludwig  Bamberger.  Es  ist  etwas  von 
derselben  Stimmung.  was  aus  Bambcr- 
gers  "  Studien  und  Meditationen  "  spricht. 
So  oft  Bamberger  die  Sonde  an  die  ver- 
schiedenartigen  politischen  Manifesta- 
tionen  der  Zeit  Icgt,  so  oft  spieit  ein 
leises,  schmcrzliches  Lacheln  um  seine 
Ziige.  *'  Les  dieux  s'cn  vont."  Fragen 
an  die  ewigen  Sterne  finden  keine  Ant- 
wort.  Und  doch  spricht  geradc  fiir  den, 
der  sich  ganz  zu  Bambergers  politischem 
Bekenntnis  halt,  ein  eigener  Trost  aus 
diesen  Betrachtungen  :  die  politischen 
Irrungen  der  Gegenwart  sind  von  einem 
Standpunkt  aus  gesehen,  der  sie  in  ihrer 
Verganglichkeit  und  Nichtigkeit  dartut. 
Die  Personlichkeit  des  Verfassers  macht 
sich  in  voller,  reicher  Kraft  geltend.  Sie 
wirkt  wie  das  Bestandigc  in  der  Erschei- 
nungen  Flucht.  Und  wenn  Bamberger 
auf  das  Paris  vor  dem  Kriege  oder  auf 
seine  persOnliche  Anteilnahme  an  der 
Griindung  des  Deutschen  Reichs  zuriick- 
blickt,  so  meint  man  aus  diesen  knappen, 
vielartigen  Fragen  gerechten  Essays  das 
Bild  der  inneren  Vorgange  eines  Viertel- 
jahrhunderts,  niit  ganz  personlichem 
Empfinden  aufgefasst,  zu  gewinnen. 
Und    weist    Bambergers    essayistische 


Kunst,  die  sich  wol  vor  alien  an  Sainte 
Beuve  geschult  hat,  dem  zufiilligen 
Geschmack  des  Tages  gegeniiber  ein 
leicht  unmodernes  Geprage  auf,  so  er- 
hoht  auch  das  nur  den  Eindruck  der 
eigenartigen,  seibstsicheren  Personlich- 
keit des  Verfassers. 

Justiims  Kcnicrs  Bricfivcchscl  mit  scincn 
Frcutiden.  Hcrausflc^chen  von  scincm 
Sohne  Theobald  Kcruer.  Durch  Ein- 
leitung  und  Anmerkungen  erlautert 
von  Dr.  Ernst  Miiller.  Mit  vielen 
Abbildungen  und  Facsimiles.  Stutt- 
gart 1897.  (Druck  und  Verlag  der  deut- 
schen Vcrlagsanstalt.) 

Die  reichcn  Briefschatze,  die  die  Zeit 
der  deutschen  Romantik  uns  in  klassi- 
schen    Bildern    vor   die    Seele    stellen, 
werden  hier  durch  zwei  iiberaus  lebcns- 
volle    Korrespondenzbande      aus     dem 
Kernerkreise  vermehrt.    Die  Publikation 
schliesst  sich  eng  an  das  Hebliche  kleine 
Buch    "  Das      Kernerhaus    und     seine 
Giiste "  an.    Theobald,    der    Sohn   des 
Justinus  hatte  da,  schlicht  anekdotisch 
plaudernd,  viel   Bilder    und    Gestalten 
aus  der  Welt  des    Weinsberger   Dich- 
tcrs    und   Teufelsbanners   beschworen. 
In    den    Brief  en,    die    jetzt  vorliegen, 
kommen  nun  alle  die  Freunde    selbst 
zum    Wort.      Eine    Sammlung    hochst 
charakteristischer  Portraits  ergibt  sich, 
"peints    par   eux-memes."      Vor   allem 
interessirt   das   Bild   Uhlands,  der  hier 
durchaus  nicht  als  weichcr  Fnihlings- 
dichter  auftritt,  sondem  als  einverstan- 
deskiihler  Ironiker,  der   den  sensitiven 
Kcrner  nur  allzu  oft  verletzt.     Fesselnd 
sind  auch  die  Exkurse  der  Kernerschen 
Mystik,  in  denen  man  manchesmal  die 


LITTERARISCHES   BULLETIN. 


3'3 


Stiinme  Maeterlincks  aus  dem  "Trcsor 
des  Humbles  "  zu  horen  glaubt. 

Ovitis  Venvandluiigen.  In  Stamen  iibcr- 
sctzt  von  Constantin  Biillc.  Bremen 
1898.  (Verlag  von  M.  Heinsius  Nachf.) 

Der  bekannte  Historiker  und  Poli- 
tiker  bringt  ein  Stuck  Altertum  ncu 
belebt  in  die  modeme  Welt,  er  hat  den 
Ovid  in  deulsche  Stanzen  iibertragcn. 
Ein  Werk  voll  feinsten  Reizes  meister- 
lichcr  Sprachbeherrschung,  Constantin 
BuUes  Ucbersetzereigenart  offenbart 
sich  in  der  Wahl  des  Mctrums.  Ihm 
kam  es  nicht  darauf  an,  den  Inhalt  la- 
teinischer  Verse  deutsch  wiederzu- 
geben,  sondern  den  Edelgehalt  voll- 
wertig  in  eine  neue  uns  gemasse  Form 
zu  giessen.  Dass  er  da  fiir  die  leicht- 
sinnigen  Galanterien  des  Ovid,  fiir  die 
bunten  Wechsel  der  Abenteuer,  fiir 
Heldentum  und  Frauenschonheit  den 
Rhythmus  des  Ariost  gewiihlt  hat  und 
dadurch  die  Antlitze  im  Spiegel  einer 
neuen  Zcit  sich  reflektiren  lasst,  zeigt 
reifsten  ktinstlerischen  Geschmack. 

(ieschichte  der  en^lischen  Litteratur  von 
ihren  An/angcn  bis  in  die  ncncstc  Zcit 
von  Eduard  Engel.  (Vierte,  yollig  neu 
bearbcitete  AuHage.)  Leipzig  1H97. 
(T.  Badeker.) 

Heschrankt  sich  der  Wert  litterar- 
jjeschichtlicher  Forschungen  auf  die  Tn- 
tersuchung  desWerdens  und  Vergehens 
der  Ideen,  auf  die  Ergriindung  ihres  Zu- 
sammenhangs  mit  der  Volksgeschichte 
und  der  Volksindividualitiit,  so  verdient 
Engels  Buch  den  Xamen  der  Littera- 
turgeschichte  nicht.  Die  Evolutionen 
der  modcrnen  Kritik  sind  an  ihm 
spurlos  voriibergegangcn.  Engel  legt 
an  die  litterarischen  Erscheinungcn 
/umeist  einen  rein  ilsthetischen  Maass- 
stab  an,  der  sich  auf  personliches 
Wolgef alien  oder  Missf alien  grUndet. 
Aber  auch  das  hat  seincn  Reiz.  Zumal 
Engel  in  seiner  Geschmacksrichtung 
]Kx:hst  persOnlich  ist,  und  unbekiimmert 
um  Autoritaten  den  Stab  bricht  oder  den 
Kranz  windet.  Er  setzt  sich  selbst  und 
lasst  die  litterarischen  Werke  Revue 
passiren.  Dabei  laufen  ihm  allerdin.?s 
Plattheiten  der  Form  und  des  Urteils 
mit  unter.  Wenn  er  Wordsworth  hoclist 
ablehnend  und  zorni;?  richtet,  so  spricht 
er  sich  damit,  ohne  sich  dessen  bewusst 
s'>i  werden,  eben  nur  das  Selbstgericht. 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXV. 


Und  das  ist  ein  Fall  fiir  viele.     Unter- 

haltsam  bleibt  Engel  aber  auch  da,  wo 

cr    irrt,    und    seine     Geschichtc     der 

Englischen    Litteratur     hat    jedenfalls 

ihren  Wert  als  kurzgefasstes,  iibersicht- 

liches  Nachschlagebuch. 

Der  Kraft-Miivr,  Roman  von  Enist  von 
Wohogen.  Stuttgart  1897.  (J.  Engel- 
horn.) 

Als  Vorkampfer  der  modcrnen  littera- 
rischen Bewegung  wol  iiber  Gebiir 
gepriesen,  hat  Ernst  von  Wolzogen  die 
Hoffnungen,  die  man  auf  ihn  setztc,  nur 
zum  geringen  Teil  gerechtfertigt.  Er 
ist  in  die  nahrsamen  Pfadeder  Familien- 
blattlitteratureingebogen  und  nimmtnur 
noch  von  Zeit  zu  Zeit  die  schwerc 
litterarische  Riistungauf  seine  Schultern. 
Auch  sein  neuer  Roman  ist  kein  rein 
litterarisches  Werk.  Aber  Wolzogen 
vereint  die  Gabe  scharfer,  knapper 
Charakterzeichnung  mit  einem  Humor, 
der  sich  ein  wenig  studentisch  schlecht 
und  recht  durch  die  Welt  schliigt.  Und 
vielleicht  nie  hat  sich  ihm  das  Zusammen 
dieser  beiden  Eigenschaften  so  glitcklich 
bewiihrt  als  in  seinem  "  Kraft-Mayr." 
Aus  der  Berliner  Kiinstler-  und  Ilalb- 
Kiinstler-Welt  sind  lustige  ,  Gestalten 
gezeichnet,  die  sich  durch  ^mancherlei 
Fiihrnisse  des  Herzens  und  des  Geld- 
beutels  gliicklich  hindurchfinden.  Ein 
fein  charakterisirter  Deus  ex  machina 
hiill  —  kein  Geringerer  als  Liszt  —  die 
Schiksalsfaden  des  Romans  in  giitigen 
llUnden,  um  sie  schliesslich  zu  gliick- 
licher  Vcrlobung  zusammenzuziehen. 
Mit  der  Moral  wird  es  nicht  gar  genau 
genommen,  und  manchmal  hat's  dann 
wieder  den  Anschein,  als  sollte  eine 
neue  freiheitlichere  Moral  hochst  ernst 
verkiindet  werden — Widerspriiche,  die 
dem  Roman  als  litterarischem  Werk 
bedenklich  Eintrag  tun.  Dafiir  ist  der 
"Kraft-Mayr"  andererseits  aber  auch 
mehr  als  ein  "  Buch  "  :  ein  Stiick 
lustigen,  flott  gestalteten  Lebens. 
Gclandetj  Roman  von  Maria  yanifschck, 
Berlin  1897.  (Verlag  der  Romanwelt.) 
An  Dickens'  Dora,  "das  kindliche 
Frauchen,"  fiihlt  man  sich  gemahnt, 
wenn  man  die  Eingangskapitel  von 
Maria  Janitscheks  neuem  Roman  liest. 
Mit  tiefem  und  reinem  Emplinden  ist 
cine  der  Ehen  geschildert,  die  vielleicht 
in  der  Litteratur  noch  seltener  sind  als 

21 


314 


COSMOPOLIS. 


fm  Lebcn— eine  gliickliche.  Maria  Janit- 
schek  ist  ein  starkes  und  eigenartiges 
lyrisch  is  Talent,  sie  trifft  den  Herzenston 
und  hndet  die  Worte,  in  denen  Menschen, 
die  sich  ganz  angehoren,  zu  einander 
sprechen.  Man  glaubt  an  die  Liebe  des 
ernsten,  zornigen  Manneszu  der  weichen, 
kindlichen  Frau.  Und  nachdem  dcr 
Tod  die  beiden  getrennt,  hebt  eine 
miihselige,  rastlose  Erdenfahrt  fiir  den 
Gatten  an.  Maria  Janitscheks  Konnen 
erlahmt  ein  wenig  im  zweiten  Teil  des 
Romans ;  auf  objektive  Schilderungen 
angewiesen,  verliert  sich  ihr  lyrisches 
Naturell  zuweilen  in  Absonderlichkeiten. 
Eigenartiges  und  tiefes  Naturgefiihl 
aber  gibt  "  Gelandet "  nicht  alltaglichen 
Wert  und  mehr  als  ephemere  Bedeulung. 

Carl  Spittcler.    Conrad  Her  Lieutenant. 

Eine  Darstcllnng.    Berlin  1897.    (Vcr- 

lag  der  Romanwelt.) 

Spitteler  hat  sich  in  seiiien  Biichcrn  als 
ein  Kiinstler  von  sproder,  etwas  hertjer 
Eigenart  erwiesen.  Er  ist  Schwei/cr, 
und  seine  Kunst  ist  vor  allem  Landes- 
kunst,  wurzeltief  im  Heimischen  ruhend. 
Seine  Paten  sind  Keller  und  Conrad 
Ferdinand  Meyer.  Doch  er  selbst  ist 
ein  frciwuchernder  Spross,  der  seinen 
eigiien  Wuchs  gefunden.  Sein  Roman 
gibt  in  derb-kriiftigen  Holzschnitt- 
strichen  cine  biirgerliche  Tragodie  auf 
dem  Dorfe.  Alte  und  neue  Generation 
stossen  mit  eckigharten  Bauernscha- 
deln  an  einander,  Vater  und  Sohn  stehen 
sich  im   Kampf    gegeniiber.      Um  das 


Hauptmotiv  aber  schltngt  sich  ein  Rei- 
gen  bliihender  Scenen,  die  schwcizerische 
Art  und  Wesen,  Landschaft  und  Men- 
schen in  sprechenden  Bildern  lebendig 
machen. 
Bei  der  Redaction  eingegangene 

BUCHER : 

Anton  Bcffelheim  :  Anzengruber.  2. 
Aufiage.  Berlin  1898.  (Ernst  Hofmann  & 
Co.) 

Ernst  Brausewetter:  Meistemovellen 
Deutscher  Frauen.  (Mit  86  Charakte- 
ristiken  und  16  Portraits.)  Berlin  1897. 
(Schuster  &  Loeffler.) 

Wilhelm  Hcgclcr :  Novcllen.  Berlin 
1898.    (F.  Fontane  &  Co.) 

A.  A.  Lugmtfoi :  Wenn's  Kusse  regnet. 
Roman.  Berlin  1897.  (Verlag  der 
Romanwelt.) 

Sigmund  Mnnz  :  Italienische  Reminis- 
ccnzen  und  Profile.  Wien  1898.  (Leopold 
Weiss.) 

Klaus  Rutland :  Welt-Bummler.  Ber- 
lin 1898.    (F.  Fontane  &  Co.) 

Alexander  Baron  von  Roberts  :  Schwie- 
gertochter.  Roman.  Berlin  1897.  (F. 
F'ontane  &  Co.) 

Benno  Rnttenauer :  Zwei  Rassen. 
Roman.    Berlin  1898.    (S.  Fischer.) 

Siegfried  Samosch  :  Pariser  Feste  und 
Streifziige  in  die  Normandie,  Bretagnc 
und  Vendee.  Minden  i./Westf.  1897. 
(T.  C.  C.  Bruns'  Verlag.) 

C,  Viebig:  Barbara  Holzer.  Schauspiel 
in  3  Aden.  Berlin  1897.  (F.  Fontane  & 
Co.) 


DIE  THEATER  DES  MONATS. 


BERLIN. 
Im  Deutsciikx  Theater  wurde  das 
Repertoire  im  verflosscnen  Monat  von 
"Mutter  Erde"  von  Max  Halbe,  "Agnes 
Jordan"  von  Georg  Hirschfeld,  "Ju- 
gendfreunde  ■'  von  Ludwig  Fulda 
beherrscht.  AUe  drei  Dramen  sind  in 
dcr  Theaterchronick  von  Paul  Schlenther 
cingehend  gewiirdigt  worden.  Haupt- 
manns  "  Versunkene  Glocke "  und 
"  Einsame  Menschen  "  gingen  iibcr  die 
Biihne.  Neben  Ibsens  "  Nora "  kam 
Kleists  **  Kiithchen  von  Heilbronn  *'  zur 
Auffuhrung.  Eine  nicht  unlustige  und 
harmlose  Novitat  "  Madchentraum,"  ein 
Versspiel  von  Max  Bernstein,  scheint  sich 


auf  dem  Spielplan  zu  behaupten.  Das 
Lessixc-Theater  brachte  neben  zahl- 
losen  Wiederholungen  des  sehr  lustigen 
Saisonsch wanks  von  Blumenthal  und 
Kadelburg  "Hans  Huckebein "  Auffuh- 
rungen  von  Max  Halbes  "  Jugend  "  und 
eine  beachtenswerte  Novitat  "  Bartel 
Turaser"  von  Langmann,  einem  jun- 
geren  ostcrreichischen  Schrifteller. 

Das  Konigliche  Schauspielhaus  Hess 
zum  ersten  Male  auf  seiner  Biilme  Lud- 
wig Anzengruber  mit  seinem  "  G'wissens- 
wurm"  zu  Worte  kommen.  Neben  Auf- 
fiihrungen  von  Grillparzers  "Des  Meeres 
und  der  Liebe  Wellen,"  Hebbels  "  Maria 
Magdalena,"    Wildcnbruchs    "  Karelin- 


LITTERARISCHES  BULLETIN. 


315 


gem  "  wurde  als  einzige  Novitat  "  Das 
neue  Weib,"  cin  farb-  und  geistloses 
Lustspiel  von  Rudolf  Stratz,  einem  sonst 
iiicht  ungcwandten  jungen  Autor,  haufi- 
ger  wiederhoU. 

V^om  Rcpcrtoir  dcs  Berliner-  und 
Goethe-Theaters  verdient  nur  Dreyers 
"  In  Behandlung  "  (sieheTheaterchronik) 
Beachtung.  Beide  Buhnen  griffen  auf 
altere,  bewalirte  Arbeiten  L'Arronges 
zuruck  und  boten  teilweise  unterhall- 
same,  aber  unlitterarische  Novitaten. 

WIEN. 

Das  Burgtheater  bot  ein  rciches, 
abwechslungsvolles  Repertoire  klassi- 
scher  Dichtungen  neben  den  auf  deut- 


schen  Buhnen  eingebilrgerten  Lust- 
spielen  von  Scribe  und  Ohnct.  Ludwig 
Fuldas  "  Jugendfreunde  "  (siehe 
Deutsches  Theater)  wurden  wiederhoU 
gegeben. 

Das  Deutsche  Volkstheater  brachte 
neben  Auffuhrungen  von  Kleists  "  K^th- 
chen  von  Heilbronn  "  zahlrciche  Wieder- 
holungen  von  Blumenthal-Kadelburgs 
"  Hans  Huckebein."  Die  Novitaten 
''Bartel  Turaser"  von  Langmann  und 
die  "  Biirgermeisterwahl "  von  May 
Burckhard  wurden  gUnstigaufgenommen. 
Ein  zweites  Werk  von  Max  Burckhard, 
"  *s  Katherl,"  verspricht  sich  auf  der 
Biihne  des  Raimund  -  Theaters  zu 
behaupten. 


REVUE     DER     REVUEN 

(15.  XoiYiubcr  his  15.  Dncmhcr  1897.) 


Die  Deutsche  Rundschau  bringt  cine 

Studie  uber  Theodor  Mommscn,  gelcgent- 

lich  seines  achtzigsten  Geburtstags,  von 

Fritz  Jonas.  Manches  Wissenswerte  und 

Interessante  aus  Mominscns  Leben  wird 

erzahlt,  zus  seiner  poUtischen  Tatigkeit 

werden  dankenswerte  Einzelheitcn  bc- 

kannt  gegeben.    So  eine  friihe  Zuschrift 

Mommsens  an  seine  VViihler,  in  der  es 

heisst :  "es  gehort  zu  dem  V^erhiingnis 

unserer  Nation,  dass  sie  jetzt  ihre  Lebens- 

bedingungen    verteidigen    muss    gegen 

einen   Mann  (Bismarck),    den    sie  mit 

Kecht  ihren  Retter,  in  gewissem  Sinn 

ihren    Sch5pfer    nennt.    Es  gibt  einen 

alten  griechischen   Spruch :    wer   dich 

schlug,  wird  dich  heilen.     Gegen  uns 

kehrt  er  sich  um..."    Man  vermisst  in 

Jonas'     Aufsatz     leider      eine    scharfe 

Kennzeichnung  von  Mommsen's  wissen- 

schaftlicher  und  schriftstellerischer  Per- 

sonlichkeit. — In   feinen  Ziigen  zeichnet 

Paul  Schlenther  das  Bild  der  Rcjanc,  die 

kiirzUch   in   Berlin  aufgetreten  ist.     Er 

betont  das  Gaminhafte  in  ihrem  Wesen 

und  kennzeichnet  sie  als  eine  "  Madame 

Sans-Gene."     Aber   ihni  sprechen  aus 

ihrem    Spiel    auch    reine     Seelenoffen- 

barungen,  die    ihm  den  Vcrglcich   der 

Duse    nabelegen. — Das    Dezemberheft 

cnthalt  u.  a.  ferner  :  Die  Stellung   der 

historischen  Wisscnschafien  in  der   Ge- 

f*cnwati    von    Max    Lenz ;  Der    Maler 

Eugdfie  Buntnud  v(  n  Herman  Grimm  ; 


IVann     ist    Hiiurich    Heine    geboren  ? 
von  Hermann  Huffer. 

In  der  Xation  verofifentlicht  der 
Hcrausgeber  Theodor  Barth  einen 
bemerkensvverten  Aufsatz  iiber  die  neue 
Manneiforiage.  Er  scheidet  streng 
zwischen  dem  materiellen  Inhalt  und 
der  Form  der  V'orlage.  Der  Verstarkung 
der  Flotte  an  sich  steht  er  durchaus 
nicht  prinzipiell  entgegen,  wol  aber 
bekampft  er  die  Fcstlegung  des 
Flottenplans  auf  sieben  Jahre,  sowol 
aus  Zweckmassigkeitsriicksichten  als 
auch  aus  dem  moral ischen  Bedenken, 
dass  ein  Reichstag,  der  der  Aufl5sung 
entgegengeht,  nicht  einem  folgenden 
Reichstag  die  Entscheidung  iiber  die 
Entwicklung  der  Kriegsmarine  rauben 
darf. — Auf  Grund  des  gesamtcn  bekann- 
ten  Materials  priift  Paul  Nathan  mit 
strenger  Sachlichkeit  und  iiberlegener 
Scharfe  die  Prozcss/iihrung  gegen  Dreyfus. 
Nach  kluger  und  iiberzeugjuder  Cha- 
racteristik  der  Hauptacteure  kommt 
er  zu  dem  Schluss  :  "  ein  Prozess,  bei 
dem  das  Urteil  gefallt  ward  unter 
Beriicksichtigung  einer  entscheidenden 
Tatsache,  die  dem  Angeklagten  wie  dem 
V^erteidiger  unbekannt  geblieben  ist, 
ein  solchcr  Prozess,  in  dem  diese 
Ungeheuerlichkeit  sich  ereignet  hat, 
muss  nach  den  Begriffen  des  19.  Jahr- 
hunderts  der  Revision  verfallen." — Die 
Frage  nach  der  Gruudlagc  der  deutschen 


3i6 


CCSMOPOLIS. 


IVchrkraft  erortert  Lujo  Brenlano, 
indem  er  die  agrarische  Behauptung, 
dass  die  Wehrkraft  des  Reiclics  in 
der  ackerbautreibeiiden  Bevtilkerung 
wurzele,  auf  Grund  des  statislischen 
Materials  uberzeugend  zuriickweist.  Die 
Nation  (15.  November  bis  15.  Dezember) 
enth^t  u.  a.  noch  :  Hamburg  tin  October 
1897  von  Adalbert  Meinhardt,  W.  H, 
RieM  von  Richard  M.  Meyer ;  Heines 
Naturgefahl  von  Ernst  Heilborn  ;  Ovids 
Venvandlungen  von  Arthur  Fitger  ;  Die 
hildendc  Kunst  in  Wien  von  J.  J.  David  ; 
Die  Lagc  in  Ocstcnrich-Ungarn  von 
Gastav  Steinbach. 

Die  Pn'ussisihcn  Jahrbfichcr  bieten  cine 
interessante  Reisebeschreibung  durch 
Tnranund  Annenien  von  Paul  Rohrbach. 
Den  landschaftlichen  Eindriicken  ge- 
recbt,  sucht  Rohrbach  das  Schwer- 
gewicht  seiner  Darstellung  in  Zeichnung 
der  kulturellen  Lebensbedingungen  dcr 
Armenier  und  Turaner.  Zur  Lage  der 
Armenier  schreibt  er,  dass  das  vitale  In- 
teressc  Rnsslands  zur  Zeit  auf  eine 
Intiniitat  mit  der  Tiirkei  hindrange,  dass 
es  somit  f&r  die  Armenier,  soweit  sie 
turkische  Untertanen  sind,  nichts  tun 
konne.  Und  er  fiigt  aus  eigner  Beobacli - 
tung  hinzu  :  "  Russland  ist  gegenwarlig 
hcmiiht,  das  innere  Niveau  der  armeni- 
schen  Nation,  soweit  es  uber  sie  verfiigt, 
so  niedrig  wie  moglich  zu  erhaltcn." — Die 
Preussichen  Jahrbiicher  enthalten  ferner: 
Das  veriorene  Parodies  von  Max  Dressier  ; 
Zur  Geschichte  der  Psyche  von  Georg 
Heinrici  ;  Trnnksucht^  ein  Sympton  von 
Sidney  Whitman,  u.  a. — In  der  Dcutschen 
/?a'i#^  vcroffenllicht  M.von  Brandt  eincn 
warmherzigen  Appell  an  den  Reichstag 
in  Sachen  der  Flottenvorlagc,  Jahrelang 
als  Gesandter  in  China  tatig  gewesen, 
sieht  Brandt  das  Gebot  der  Floltenver- 
mehrung  in  der  Notwendigkcit  des 
Schatzes  der  Reichsangeh(}rigen  im  Aus- 
land.  Die  Anwesenheit  europaischer 
Kriegsschifife  hat,  wicer  ausfiihrt,  genugt 
die  Christen-  und  fremdenfeindliche 
Bewegung  in  China  1891  auf  das 
Yangtsze-Thal  zu  beschriinken  ;  kriegs- 
tiichtige  Kreuzer  sind  imslandc,  jedc 
Handelsflotte  so  zu  scliiidigen,  dass  jedes 
Land  vor  einer  Verge waltigung  frcmder 
Interessen  zuriickscheuen  wird.-  -Bcmer- 


kenswert  ist  aus  dcm  Inlialt  fk-r  Dcut- 
schen Revue  :  Kaiser  Will.  Itn  I.  und 
B  smarcky  von  Dr.  Henrici  ;  hfi»niiTiiiix 
durch  das  modenie  Lcbcn  von  S.  Sadger  ; 
Mittcilungen  aus  Hcbbcls  Briefivcchscl ; 
Etwas  Uber  den  formellcn  Geschaftsgaiig 
des  Bundcsrats  und  scin  Heim  von 
Heinrich  von  Poschinger;  Die  IcbcnJige 
Substanz  von  O.  Biitschli. 

In  der  Zukunft  (1$.  Xovembcr  his  15. 
Dezember)  ergrcift  Fricdrich  Spicl- 
hagen  das  Wort  gegen  das  Zunchinen 
dcr  MajcstatsbelcidignugS'Prozcsse  und 
si^ht  in  ihnen  das  Sympton  eincr  Zeit, 
der  der  konstitutionelle  Gedanke  noch 
nicht  in  Fleisch  und  Blut  ilbcrgf^^mgen 
ist. — Kontreadmiral  Pluddemann  uniei- 
zieht  die  Mariucvovlagc  eincr  Kritik,  in 
der  dcr  gesctzlich  festzulcgCDdc  Zeii- 
rauni  von  sieben  Jahren  als  ein  will kiirli- 
cher  charakterisirt  wird,  eine  liingerc 
Zeit  gesetzlich  verbrieftcr  Entwickiungs- 
tatigkeit  aber  als  erforderlich  hinge- 
stellt  wird.  Pliiddeman  halt  die  Vor- 
schlilge  dcr  Regirung  fiir  die  denkbar 
bcscheidensten,  die  festgesetzte  Zahl  der 

Schift'c  fiir  das  denkbar  niedrigste 
>'aa>v — HcrvorzHheben    ist    aus    dem 

Inh;  It  der  Zukunft :  Konstautin  Meunicr 
von  Julius  Mcier-Graefe ;  Vivisection 
von  Theodor  Beer ;  Aus  dem  Tagcbuch 
ciucr  Arbeitcrin  von  Beatrice  Webb,  das 
in  deutscher  Uebersetzung  mitgeteilt 
wird. 

In  der  Fran  crlfisst  Helene  Add- 
mann,  die  Vorsitzcnde  des  Vereins  deut- 
scher Lehrerinnen  in  London,  unter 
dem  Titel  *' Zu  fruh  ins  Ausland"  cine 
beherzigenswerte  Mahnung,  junge  Mad- 
chen  nicht  allzu  fruh  im  Ausland  Stellung 
suchen  zu  lassen.  Sie  schildert  trubste 
Kiille  von  Madchcnliandel,  die  sic  in 
ihrer  Tiitigkeit  in  London  selbst  miter- 
lebcn  musste  und  bei  denen  es  ihr  nur 
noch  in  letzter  Stunde  gelang,  hilfstati;^ 
zu  interveniren. — Die  Einrichtungen  der 
Londoner  lVorkhoi4SC-Schools  stellt  Else 
Neuhaus  in  eingehender  Schildening  als 
fur  Deutschland  vorbildlich  hin. — Das 
Dczemberheft  enthalt  ferner :  Weih- 
nachten  bei  den  Blindcn  von  E.  Kull  ; 
Heine  und  die  Fniuen  von  Ernst  Heil- 
born ;  Joukvrowivc  Jcltje  de  Bosch  Kem- 
per von  Jcannetle  Schwerin. 


Herausgeber :  F.  Ortmans. 


Lcgcrant:  F.  Ortmans. 


THE    MONEY   MARKETS. 


Christmas  festivities  in  England  and  those  of  the  Xew  Year  on 
the  Continent  bring  with  them  a  short  respite  to  the  stockbroker, 
so  that  from  now  till  after  the  first  week  in  January  there  is  small 
prospect  of  any  first-class  events  arising  in  the  markets  with 
which  we  are  concerned. 

LOXDON. — There  is  no  change  of  any  importance  to  note  in 
the  prices  of  the  securities  most  esteemed  by  the  pubUc.  American 
Railways  have  not  continued  to  rise.  The  President's  Message 
had  been,  in  fact,  discounted  in  advance,  and  although,  when 
deUvered,  it  wjis  received  among  business  men  with  keen  satis- 
faction, it  is  not  surprising  that  the  upward  movements  should 
have  abated.  There  has  been  no  fresh  development  in  mines 
and  no  speculation  in  connection  with  them. 

PARIS. — ^The  mid-November  settlement  took  place  under  veiy 
favourable  circumstances,  and  the  market  is  somewat  strengthened 
in  consequence.  The  general  tendency  is  firm,  but  the  New- 
Year  hoUdays  have  for  the  moment  stopped  any  considerable 
extension  of  business.  The  good  news  from  the  Philippines, 
together  with  the  quarterly  payment  of  interest  now  due,  has  sent 
up  Spanish  funds,  a  movement  which  has  favourably  affected 
French  rentes.  The  only  coming  events  that  raise  any  interest  are 
the  Greek  Loan  and  the  issue  of  20,000  preference  shares  of  the 
Socicic  gcncrale  de  V Industrie  Minierc  en  Russic,  which  has  a  capital 
of  25  million  francs. 

BERLIN. — There  can  be  no  question  at  present  of  a  revival 
of  the  Berlin  Stock  Exchange.  Nor  is  the  deplorable  effect  on 
Austrian  securities  of  the  recent  political  agitation  in  Hungary 
of  a  nature  to  encourage  the  German  market.  A  not  Uii likely 
rumour  foretells  a  serious  rise  in  all  securities  connected  with 
the  iron  industrj',  foundries,  &c.,  provided,  that  is,  the  necessary 
credits  for  the  new  navy  estimates  are  passed  by  the  Reichstag. 


Chronique  de  la  Mode. 

Paris,  24  d6cembre  1897. 

'A  mode,  ondoyante  et  diverse,  changeante  comma  le 

ciel,  mobile  comme  la  mer,  n'est-elle  pas  ce  qu'il 

y  a  de  plus  difficile  a  saisir  ? 

Comment   noter  exactement    ses    caprices  sans 
nombre,  ses  transformations  infinies  ? 

Comment  fixer  cette  decevante  physionomie  pour  en  obtenir 
une  image  precise  ? 

II  vaut  mieux,  affirme  un  dicton  populaire,  "s'adresser  an 
Bon  Dieu  qu'a  ses  saints,"  c'est  pourquoi  je  siiis  all6e  rue  de 
la  Paix,  interroger  Paquin,  le  couturier  le  plus  en  vogue. 

Et  dans  un  des  salons  ou  pass^rent,  passent  et  passeront  les 
les  '*  Professionnelles  beaut^s "  de  I'^poque,  j'ai  pu  causer 
quelques  instants  avec  le  c^lcbre  couturier. 

Dans  un  joli  bruit  de  babillages  feminins  et  de  riches  6toffes 
froissees,  parmi  le  va-et-vient  des  elegantes  visiteuses  et  des 
vendeuses  affairces,  j'ai  eprouv6  le  rare  et  d61icat  plaisir  d'en- 
tendre  parler  en  veritable  artiste  de  cette  chose  exquise  qu'est 
la  toilette  de  la  femme.  Ce  plaisir,  je  voudrais  le  faire  partager 
aux  lectrices  de  COSMOPOLls  en  leur  rapportant  aussi  fidcle- 
ment  que  possible  le  sens  general  de  cet  enlretien. 

Ce  sont  les  formes  souples  et  enveloppantes,  combin^es  avec 
le  souci  de  la  ligne,  qui  dominent  actuellement  dans  la  toilette 
de  la  femme.  Leur  simplicity  meme  fait  leur  el6gance,  et,  ce 
je  ne  sais  quoi  d'un  peu  "  flou  "  qui  les  caract6rise,  donne  a 
1  ensemble  un  charme  impr6vu.  La  silhouette  est  longue,  d'un 
aspect  plus  6troit  et  plus  mince  vers  le  buste,  6vas6  et  plus 
ample  aux  pied<.  Le  joli  effet  est,  d'aprcs  ce  que  j'ai  cru 
comprendre,  obtenu  par  un  haut  volant  dont  ring6nieuse 
disposition  ajoute  a  cette  allure  6vas6e  du  bas. 

Les  tissus  employes,  pour  etre  dans  la  meme  note,  sont 
souples  et  tombants.  Le  drap  domine,  garni  souvent  d'appli- 
cations  byzantines.  Les  nuances  se  cantonnent  dans  la 
gamme  tend  re.  Avec  cela,  des  fourrures  l^gferes,  comme  la 
Zibeline  et  le  Chinchilla,  port^es  en  grands  collets  forme 
Louis  XIV,  qui  donnent  un  si  gracieux  effet  avec  leur  ligne 
allong6e  derriere  qui  va  diminuant  et  s'arrondissant  par  devant. 

Pour  le  soir,  on  recherche  les  etoffes  scintillantes  et  mous- 
seuses  et  parfois  le  satin  antique  allege  par  de  vieux  points 
flamands  rebrod6s. 

Et,  toilettes  de  ville,  de  vjsite  ou  de  soir6e,  ne  sont  parfaites 


CHRONIQUE   DE   LA   MODE.  3 

que  celles  donnant  a  la  femme  ces  lignes  souples,  envelop- 
pantes  et  un  peu  serpentines  qui  soulignent  d'exquise  fa9on  sa 

grace  naturelle. 

♦  ♦ 

« 

Aprte  une  aussi  artistique  definition  du  costume  feminin, 
comment  entreprendre  une  6tude  du  chapeau — je  ne  Toserais 
et  pr6fere,  employant  le  meme  proc6d6,  donner  a  mes  lectrices, 
dans  ma  prochaine  chronique,   les  id^es  d'une  personnalitti 

autorisde. 

«  « 

« 

Dans  une  chronique  de  mode,  il  f aut  ti  aiter  bien  des  ques- 
tions, ainsi  je  ne  saurais  passer  sous  silence  un  point  qui  pr6- 
occupe  toute  femme  elegante  :  Comment  eviter  que  les  fatigues 
mondaines  altferent  les  traits  du  visage  ?  La  reponse  est 
heureusement  facile  :  II  suilit  de  faire  usage  des  sachets  de 
toilette  du  Docteur  Dys. 

Je  connais  des  femmes  qui,  faisant  usage  de  ces  sachets  de- 
puis  quinze  ans,  n'ont  pas  vieilli  de  trois  mois  dans  ce  laps  de 
temps. 

D'ailleurs,  la  vogue  en  est  si  grande  que  Darsy,  le  s^ul  pr6- 
parateur  des  produits  du  D'  Dys,  ne  peut  suffire  aux  demandes 
qui  lui  arrivent  journellement  31  rue  d'Anjou. 

Ces  sachets,  compo  c .  de  graines  concass6es,  de  fleurs  bri- 
s6es,  s'expriment  dans  I'eau  des  ablutions  et  ripandent  un  lait 
balsamique  et  rafraichissant  dont  Tefficacite  sur  Tepiderme  est 
incontestable. 

Bakoxxe  Charley. 


LE   MEILLEUR  ALIMENT   DES   ENFANTS. 


Pour  la  publicitti  financiere,  ct  la  publicitc  com- 
merciale  de  Cosmopolls  en  France,  s\idresser  a  I'Argus  de 
la  Presse,  14,  rue  Drouot,  Paris  (20*  annee  d'cxistencc). 


ELIXIR  et  CONFITURE 

St-VINCENT-de-PAUL 


GUfiRISON  de  I'AN^MIE  en 

VINGT  JOURS. 


L'Elixir  et  la  Confiture  St-Vincent= 

de^Paul  en  usage  depuis  plus  de  vingt  ans 
dans  les  hdpitaux,  dispensaires,  orphelinats  des 
Filles  de  la  Charity,  SoBurs  de  St- Vincent-de-Paul, 
ont  procure  les  plus  merveilleuses  guerisons 
de  I'Anemie. 

Par  autorisation  sp^ciale  de  la  M^re  G^n^rale 
Sup^rieure  de  TOrdre,  I'exploitation  de  1  Elixir 

et  de  la  Cofif  iture  St  -Vincent-  de  -  Paul 

ayant  ^te  livree  k  la  Pharmacie  par  les  Filles  de 
la  Charite,  tous  les  anemiques  sont  desormais 
certains  de  guerir  en  vingt  jours,  quel  que  soit 
le  degre  de  TAnemie  au  debut  du  traitement. 

DEPOT  GI^NERAL:     Pharmacie    Centrale    des    Qrands 
Boulevards,  178  rue  Montmartre,  Paris. 


EN    VENTE   DANS  T0UTE8    LES   PHARMACIES. 
SE    M^FIER    DES    IMITATIONS. 


6osmopolis 

An  International  Review. 


No.  XXIV.— February,  1898. 


JOHN   DELAVOY.* 


V. 

A  FEW  minutes  later  I  had  wired  to  our  young  lady  that, 
should  I  hear  nothing  from  her  to  the  contrary,  I  would  come 
to  her  that  evening.  I  had  other  affairs  that  kept  me  out ; 
and  on  going  home  I  found  a  word  to  the  effect  that  though 
she  should  not  be  free  after  dinner  she  hoped  for  my  presence 
at  five  o'clock  :  a  notification  betraying  to  me  that  the  evening 
would,  by  arrangement,  be  Mr.  Bullen's  hour  and  that  she 
wished  to  see  me  first.  At  five  o'clock  I  was  there,  and  as 
soon  as  I  entered  the  room  I  perceived  two  things.  One  of 
these  was  that  she  had  been  highly  impatient  ;  the  other  was 
that  she  had  not  heard,  since  my  call  on  him,  from  Mr.  Bullen, 
and  that  her  arrangement  with  him  therefore  dated  from 
earlier.  The  tea-service  was  by  the  fire — she  herself  was  at 
the  window  ;  and  I  am  at  a  loss  to  name  the  particular 
revelation  that  I  drew  from  this  fact  of  her  being  restless  on 
general  grounds.  My  telegram  had  fallen  in  with  complications 
at  which  I  could  only  guess  ;  it  had  not  found  her  quiet ;  she 
was  living  in  a  troubled  air. 

Her  wonder  leaped  from  her  lips.     "  He  does  want  two  ?  " 
I  had  brought  in  my  proof  with  me,  and  put  it  down  on  a 
chair,  inside  my  hat.    "  Oh,  no — ^he  wants  only  one,  only  yours." 

Her  wonder  deepened.     "  He  won't  print ?  " 

"  My  poor  old  stuff  1    He  returns  it  with  thanks." 
"  Returns  it  ?     When  he  had  accepted  it  !  " 

*  Copyright,  i8<>8,  in  the  rnitecl  States  (»f  America,  by  Ifcnry  Jainc>. 
VOL.  IX.— NO.  J^XVI,  I 


31 8  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Oh,  that  doesn't  prevent — when  he  doesn't  like  it." 

"  But  he  does  ;  he  did.  He  liked  it  to  me.  He  called  it 
'  sympathetic' " 

"  He  only  meant  that  you  are — perhaps  even  that  I  myself 
am.  He  hadn't  read  it  then.  He  read  it  but  a  day  or  two 
ago,  and  horror  seized  him." 

Miss  Delavoy  dropped  into  a  chair.     "  Horror  ?  " 

"  I  don't  know  how  to  express  to  you  the  fault  he  finds  with 
it."  I  had  gone  to  the  fire,  and  I  looked  to  where  it  peeped  out 
of  my  hat ;  my  companion  did  the  same,  and  her  face  showed 
the  pain  she  might  have  felt,  in  the  street,  at  sight  of  the  victim 
of  an  accident.     "  It  appears  it's  indecent." 

She  sprang  from  her  chair.     "  To  describe  my  brother  ?  " 

"As  r-iC  described  him.  That,  at  any  rate,  is  how  my 
account  sins.  What  I've  said  is  unprintable."  I  leaned  against 
the  chimney-piec'  with  a  serenity  of  which,  I  admit,  I  was 
conscious ;  I  rubbed  it  in  and  felt  a  private  joy  in  watching 
my  influence. 

"  Then  what  have  you  said  ?  " 

"  You  know  perfectly.  You  heard  my  thing  from  beginning 
to  end.     You  said  it  was  beautiful." 

She  remembered  as  I  looked  at  her ;  she  showed  all  the 
things  she  called  back.  **  It  ivas  beautiful."  1  went  over  and 
picked  it  up  ;  I  came  back  with  it  to  the  fire.  "  It  was  the  best 
thing  ever  said  about  him,"  she  went  on.  '*  It  was  the  finest 
and  truest." 

"  Well,  then    -      ! "  I  exclaimed. 

''But  what  have  you  done  to  it  since  ?" 

'*  I  haven't  touched  it  since." 

'*  You've  put  nothing  else  in  ?  " 

"  Not  a  line — not  a  syllable.  Don't  you  remember  how  you 
warned  mc  against  spoiling  it  ?  It's  of  the  thing  we  read 
together,  liked  together,  went  over  and  over  together ;  it's  of 
this  dear  little  serious  thing  of  good  sense  and  good  faith" — 
and  I  held  up  my  roll  of  proof,  shaking  it  even  as  Mr.  BuUen 
had  shaken  it — "  that  he  expresses  that  opinion." 

She  frowned  at  me  with  an  intensity  that,  though  bringing 
me  no  pain,  gave  me  a  sense  of  her  own,  "Then  that's  why 
he  has  asked  mc ? " 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  319 


"  To  do  something  instead.  But  something  pure.  You,  he 
hopes,  won't  be  indecent." 

She  sprang  up,  more  mystified  than  enlightened ;  she  had 
pieced  things  together,  but  they  left  the  question  gaping.  "  Is 
he  mad  ?    What  is  he  talking  about  ? " 

"  Oh,  /  know — ^now.    Has  he  specified  what  he  wants  of  you  ?" 

She  thought  a  moment,  all  before  me.  "  Yes — to  be  very 
*  personal.' " 

"  Precisely.    You  mustn't  speak  of  the  work." 

She  almost  glared.    "  Not  speak  of  it  ?  " 

"  That's  indecent." 

"  My  brother's  work  ?  " 

"  To  speak  of  it." 

She  took  this  from  me  as  she  had  not  taken  anything. 
''Then  how  can  1  speak  of  him  at  all  ? — how  can  I  articulate  ? 
He  was  his  work." 

"Certainly  he  was.  But  that's  not  the  kind  of  truth  that 
will  stand  in  Mr.  Bullen's  way.  Don't  you  know  what  he 
means  by  wanting  you  to  be  personal  ?  " 

In  the  way  she  looked  at  me  there  was  still  for  a  moment  a 
dim  desire  to  spare  him — even  perhaps  a  little  to  save  him. 
None  the  less,  after  an  instant,  she  let  herself  go.  "  Some- 
thing horrible  ?  " 

"  Horrible ;  so  long,  that  is,  as  it  takes  the  place  of 
something  more  honest  and  really  so  much  more  clean. 
He  wants — what  do  they  call  the  stuff  ? — anecdotes,  glimpses, 
gossip,  chat ;  a  picture  of  his  '  home  life,'  domestic  habits, 
diet,  dress,  arrangements — all  his  little  ways  and  little  secrets, 
and  even,  to  better  it  still,  all  your  own,  your  relations  with 
him,  your  feelings  about  him,  his  feelings  about  you :  both 
his  and  yours,  in  short,  about  anything  else  you  can  think  of. 
Don't  you  see  what  I  mean  ?  "  She  saw  so  well  what  I  meant 
that,  in  the  dismay  of  it,  she  grasped  my  arm  an  instant,  half 
as  if  to  steady  herself,  half  as  if  to  stop  me.  But  she  couldn't 
stop  me.  "  He  wants  you  just  to  write  round  and  round  that 
portrait." 

She  was  lost  in  the  reflections  1  had  stirred,  in  apprehen- 
sions and  indignations  that  slowly  surged  and  spread  ;  and  for 
a  moment  she  was  vague.     "  What  portrait  ?  " 


320  C08M0P0LIS. 

"  Why,  the  beautiful  one  you  did.  The  beautiful  one  you 
gave  him." 

"  Did  I  give  it  to  him  ?  Oh,  yes  ! "  It  came  back  to  her, 
but  this  time  she  blushed  red,  and  I  saw  what  had  occurred  to 
her.  It  occurred,  in  fact,  at  the  same  instant  to  myself. 
"  Ah,  par  exemple,"  she  cried,  "  he  sha'n't  have  it ! " 

I  couldn't  help  laughing.  "  My  dear  young  lady,  unfor- 
tunately he  has  got  it ! " 

"  He  shall  send  it  back.     He  sha'n't  use  it." 

"  I'm  afraid  he  is  using  it,"  I  replied.  "  I'm  afraid  he  has 
used  it.     They've  begun  to  work  on  it." 

She  looked  at  me  almost  as  if  I  were  Mr.  Bullen.  "  Then 
they  must  stop  working  on  it."  Something  in  her  decision 
somehow  thrilled  me.  "  Mr.  Bullen  must  send  it  straight 
back.     Indeed  I'll  wire  to  him  to  bring  it  to-night." 

"  Is  he  coming  to-night  ?  "  I  ventured  to  inquire. 

She  held  her  head  very  high.  "  Yes,  he's  coming  to-night. 
It's  most  happy  ! "  she  bravely  added,  as  if  to  forestall  any 
suggestion  that  it  could  be  anything  else. 

I  thought  a  moment ;  first  about  that,  then  about  some- 
thing that  presently  made  me  say  :  '*  Oh,  well,  if  he  brings  it 
back 1 " 

She  continued  to  look  at  me.  *'  Do  you  mean  you  doubt 
his  doing  so  ?  " 

I  thought  again.  "  You'll  probably  have  a  stiff  time  with 
him." 

She  made,  for  a  little,  no  answer  to  this  but  to  sound  me 
again  with  her  eyes  ;  our  silence,  however,  was  carried  off  by 
her  then  abruptly  turning  to  her  tea-tray  and  pouring 
me  out  a  cup.  *'  Will  you  do  me  a  favour  ?  "  she  asked  as  I 
took  it. 

*'  Any  favour  in  life." 

**  Will  you  be  present  ?" 

"  Present  ?  " — 1  failed  at  first  to  imagine. 

"  When  Mr.  Bullen  comes." 

It  was  so  much  more  than  I  had  expected  that  I  of  course 
looked  stupid  in  my  surprise.     "  This  evening — here  ?  " 

"This  evening — here.  Do  you  think  my  request  very 
strange  ?  " 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  S2I 

I  pulled  myself  together.  "  How  can  I  tell  when  I'm  so 
awfully  in  the  dark  ?  " 

"  In  the  dark ?"     She  smiled  at  me  as  if  I  were  a  person 

who  carried  such  lights  ! 

"  About  the  nature,  I  mean,  of  your  friendship." 

"With  Mr.  Bullen  ?"  she  broke  in.  Then  in  the  wonderful 
way  that  women  say  such  things  :  "  It  has  always  been  so 
pleasant." 

"  Do  you  think  it  will  be  pleasant  for  me  ?  "  I  laughed. 

"  Our  friendship  ?     1  don't  care  whether  it  is  or  not  ! " 

"I  mean  what  you'll  have  out  with  him  —  for  of  course 
you  will  have  it  out.  Do  you  think  it  will  be  pleasant  for 
him  ?  " 

"  To  find  you  here — or  to  see  you  come  in  ?  I  don't  feel 
obliged  to  think.  This  is  a  matter  in  which  1  now  care  for  no 
one  but  my  brother — for  nothing  but  his  honour.  1  stand 
only  on  that." 

I  can't  say  how  high,  with  these  words,  she  struck  me  as 
standing,  nor  how  the  look  that  she  gave  me  with  them 
seemed  to  make  me  spring  up  beside  her.  We  were  at  this 
elevation  together  a  moment.  "  I'll  do  anything  in  the  world 
vou  say." 

"  Then  please  come  about  nine." 

That  struck  me  as  so  tantamount  to  saying  "  And  please 
therefore  go  this  minute"  that  I  immediately  turned  to  the 
door.  Before  I  passed  it,  however,  I  gave  her  time  to  ring 
out  clear  :  "  I  know  what  I'm  about  ! "  She  proved  it  the 
next  moment  by  following  me  into  the  hall  with  the  request 
that  I  would  leave  her  my  proof.  I  placed  it  in  her  hands, 
and  if  she  knew  what  she  was  about  I  wondered,  outside,  what 
/  was. 

VI. 

I  dare  say  it  was  the  desire  to  make  this  out  that,  in  the 
evening,  brought  me  back  a  little  before  my  time.  Mr.  Bullen 
had  not  arrived,  and  it's  worth  mentioning  -  for  it  was  rather 
odd — that  while  we  waited  for  him  I  sat  with  my  hostess  in 
silence.  She  spoke  of  my  paper,  which  she  had  read  over- 
but  simply  to  tell  me  hhe  had  done  so  ;  and  that  was  practi- 


322  COSMOPOLIS. 

cally  all  that  passed  between  us  for  a  time  at  once  so  full  and 
so  quiet  that  it  struck  me  neither  as  short  nor  as  long.  We 
felt,  in  the  matter,  so  indivisible  that  we  might  have  been 
united  in  some  observance  or  some  sanctity — to  go  through 
something  decorously  appointed.  Without  an  observation  we 
listened  to  the  door-bell,  and,  still  without  one,  a  minute  later, 
saw  the  person  we  expected  stand  there  and  show  his  surprise. 
It  was  at  me  he  looked  as  he  spoke  to  her. 

"  I'm  not  to  see  you  alone  ?  " 

"Not  just  yet,  please,"  Miss  Delavoy  answered,  "Of  what 
has  suddenly  come  between  us  this  gentleman  is  essentially  a 
part,  and  I  really  think  he'll  be  less  present  if  we  speak  before 
him  than  if  wc  attempt  to  deal  with  the  question  without 
him."  Mr,  Bullen  was  amused,  but  not  enough  amused  to 
sit  down,  and  we  stood  there  while,  for  the  third  time,  my 
proof-sheets  were  shaken  for  emphasis.  "  I've  been  reading 
these  over,"  she  said  as  she  held  them  up. 

Mr.  Bullen,  on  what  he  had  said  to  me  of  them,  could 
only  look  grave  ;  but  he  tried  also  to  look  pleasant,  and  I 
foresaw  that,  on  the  whole,  he  would  really  behave  well. 
"  They're  remarkably  clever." 

"  And  yet  you  wish  to  publish  instead  of  them  something 
from  so  different  a  hand  ?  " 

He  smiled  now  very  kindly,  "  If  you'll  only  let  me  have  it ! 
Won't  you  let  me  have  it  ?  I'm  sure  you  know  exactly  the 
thing  1  want." 

"  Oh,  perfectly  ! " 

"  I've  tried  to  give  her  an  idea  of  it,"  I  threw  in, 

Mr.  Bullen  promptly  saw  his  way  to  make  this  a  reproach  to 
me,     "  Then,  after  all,  you  had  one  yourself  ?  " 

"  I  think  I  couldn't  have  kept  so  clear  of  it  if  1  hadn't  had  1" 
I  laughed. 

"  I'll  write  you  something,"  Miss  Delavoy  went  on,  "if  you'll 
print  this  as  it  stands,"     My  proof  wiis  still  in  her  keeping. 

Mr.  Bullen  raised  his  eyebrows.  "  Print  two  ?  Whatever 
do  I  want  with  two  ?  What  do  I  want  with  the  wrong  one  if 
I  can  get  the  beautiful  right  ?  " 

She  met  this,  to  my  surprise,  with  a  certain  gaiety.  "  It's  a 
big  subject — a  subject  to  be  seen  from  different  sides.     Don't 


JOHN   DELAVOV.  3I3 

Voii  want  a  full,  a  various  treatment  t    Our  papers  will  have 
nothing  in  common." 

"  I  should  hope  not ! "  Mr.  Bullen  said  good-humouredly. 
"  You  have  command,  dear  lady,  of  a  point  of  view  too  good 
to  spoil.  It  so  happens  that  your  brother  has  been  really  less 
handled  than  anyone,  so  that  there's  a  kind  of  obscurity 
about  him,  and  in  consequence  a  kind  of  curiosity  that  it 
seems  to  me  quite  a  crime  not  to  work.  There's  just  the 
perfection,  don't  you  know  ?  of  a  little  sort  of  mystery  and 
ambiguity."  He  continued  to  smile  at  her  as  if  he  thoroughly 
hoped  to  kindle  her,  and  it  was  interesting  at  that  moment  to 
get  this  vivid  glimpse  of  his  conception. 

I  could  see  it  quickly  enough  break  out  in  Miss  Delavoy, 
who  sounded  for  an  instant  almost  assenting.  •'  And  you  want 
the  mystery  ar^d  the  ambiguity  cleared  up  ?  " 

"  I  w^nt  a  little  lovely,  living  thing  !  Don't  be  perverse,*' 
he  pursued,  "don't  stand  in  your  own  light  and  in  your 
brother's  and  in  this  young  man's— in  the  long  run,  and  in 
mine  too  and  in  everyone's  :  just  let  us  have  him  out  as  no 
one  but  you  can  bring  him,  and  as,  by  the  most  charming  of 
chances  and  a  particular  providence,  he  has  been  kept  all  this 
time  just  on  purpose  for  you  to  bring.  Really,  you  know" — 
his  vexation  would  crop  up—"  one  could  how'l  to  see  such 
good  stuflf  wasted  !  "" 

"  Well,"  our  young  lady  returned,  "  that  holds  good  of  one 
thing  as  well  as  of  another.  I  can  never  hope  to  describe  or 
express  my  brother  as  these  pages  describe  and  express  him  ; 
but,  as  I  tell  you,  approaching  him  from  a  different  direction, 
I  promise  to  do  my  very  best.     Only*  my  condition  remains." 

Mr.  Bullen  transferred  his  eyes  from  her  face  to  the  little 
bundle  in  her  hand,  where  they  rested  with  an  intensity  that 
made  me  privately  wonder  if  it  represented  some  vain  vision 
of  a  snatch  defeated  in  advance  by  the  stupidity  of  his  having 
suffered  my  copy  to  be  multiplied.     "  My  printing  that  ?" 

"  Your  printing  this." 

Mr.  Bullen  wavered  there  between  us  :  I  could  make  out  in 
him  a  vexed  inability  to  keep  us  as  distinct  as  he  would  have 
liked.  But  he  was  triumphantly  light.  "  It's  impossible.  Don't 
be  a  pair  of  fools  I  " 


324  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Very  well,  then/'  said  Miss  Delavoy  ;  "  please  send  me  back 
my  drawing," 

"Oh  dear,  no  1 "  Mr.  Bullen  laughed.  ''Your  drawing  we 
must  have  at  anv  rate." 

"  Ah,  but  I  forbid  you  to  use  it !  This  gentleman  is  my 
witness  that  my  prohibition  is  absolute," 

"  Was  it  to  be  your  witness  that  you  sent  for  the  gentleman  ? 
You  take  immense  precautions  1 "  Mr.  Bullen  exclaimed. 
Before  she  could  retort,  however,  he  came  back  to  his  strong 
point.  "  Do  you  coolly  ask  of  me  to  sacrifice  ten  thousand 
subscribers  ? " 

The  number,  I  noticed,  had  grown  since  the  morning,  but 
Miss  Delavoy  faced  it  boldly.  "  If  you  do,  you'll  be  well  rid  of 
them.    They  must  be  ignoble,  your  ten  thousand  subscribers." 

He  took  this  perfectly.  "You  dispose  of  them  easily! 
Ignoble  or  not,  what  1  have  to  do  is  to  keep  them  and  if 
possible  add  to  their  number  ;  not  to  get  rid  of  them." 

"  You'd  rather  get  rid  of  my  poor  brother  instead  ?  " 

"  I  don't  get  rid  of  him.  I  pay  him  a  signal  attention. 
Reducing  it  to  the  least,  I  publish  his  portrait." 

"  His  portrait  -the  only  one  worth  speaking  of  ?  Why,  you 
turn  it  out  with  horror." 

"  Do  you  call  the  only  one  worth  speaking  of  that  misguided 
effort  ? "  And,  obeying  a  restless  impulse,  he  appeared  to  reach 
for  my  tribute  ;  not,  I  think,  with  any  conscious  plan,  but  with 
a  vague  desire  in  some  way  again  to  point  his  moral  witli  it. 

1  liked  immensely  the  motion  with  which,  in  reply  to  this, 
she  put  it  behind  her  :  her  gesture  expressed  so  distinctly  her 
vision  of  her  own  lesson.  From  that  moment,  somehow,  they 
struck  mc  as  forgetting  me,  and  I  seemed  to  see  them  as  they 
might  have  been  alone  together  ;  even  to  see  a  little  what,  for 
each,  had  held  and  what  had  divided  them.  1  remember  how, 
at  this,  I  almost  held  my  breath,  effacing  myself  to  let  them  go, 
make  them  show  me  whatever  they  might.  "  It's  the  only  one," 
she  insisted,  "  that  tells,  about  its  subject,  anything  that's  any- 
one's business.  If  you  really  want  John  Delavoy,  there  he  is. 
If  you  don't  want  him,  don't  insult  him  with  an  evasion  and  a 
pretence.  Have  at  least  the  courage  to  say  that  you're  afraid 
of  him  ! " 


JOHN  DELAVOY*  325 

I  figured  Mr.  Bullen  here  as  much  incommoded  ;  but  all  too 
simply,  doubtless,  for  he  clearly  held  on,  smiling  through 
flushed  discomfort  and  on  the  whole  bearing  up.  "  Do  you 
think  I'm  afraid  of  you  f"  He  might  forget  me,  but  he  would 
have  to  forget  me  a  little  more  to  yield  completely  to  his  visible 
impulse  to  take  her  hand.  It  was  visible  enough  to  herself  to 
make  her  show  that  she  declined  to  meet  it,  and  even  that  his 
effect  on  her  was  at  last  distinctly  exasperating.  Oh,  how  I 
saw  at  that  moment  that  in  the  really  touching  good  faith  of 
his  personal  sympathy  he  didn't  measure  his  effect  !  If  he  had 
done  so  he  wouldn't  have  tried  to  rush  it,  to  carry  it  off  with 
tenderness.  He  dropped  to  that  now  so  rashly  that  I  was  in 
truth  sorry  for  him,  *'  You  could  do  so  gracefully,  so  naturally 
vrhat  we  want.  What  we  want,  don't  you  see  ?  is  perfect  taste. 
I  know  better  than  you  do  yourself  how  perfect  yours  would 
be.  I  always  know  better  than  people  do  themselves."  He 
jested  and  pleaded,  getting  in,  benightedly,  deeper.  Perhaps  I 
didn't  literally  hear  him  ask  in  the  same  accents  if  she  didn't 
care  for  him  at  all,  but  I  distinctly  saw  him  look  as  if  he  were 
on  the  point  of  it,  and  something,  at  any  rate,  in  a  lower  tone, 
dropped  from  him  that  he  followed  up  with  the  statement  that 
if  she  did  even  just  a  little  she  would  help  him. 

VII. 

She  mrde  him  wait  a  deep  minute  for  her  answer  to  this, 
and  that  gave  me  time  to  read  into  it  what  he  accused  her  of 
failing  to  do.  I  recollect  that  1  was  startled  at  their  having 
come  so  far,  though  I  was  reassured,  after  a  little,  by  seeing 
that  he  had  come  much  the  furthest.  1  had  now  1  scarce 
know  what  amused  sense  of  knowing  our  hostess  so  much 
better  than  he.  "  I  think  you  strangely  inconsequent,"  she  said 
at  last.  "  If  you  associate  with — what  you  speak  of — the  idea 
of  help,  does  it  strike  you  as  helping  me  to  treat  in  that  base 
fashion  the  memory  I  most  honour  and  cherish  ? "  As  I  was 
quite  sure  of  what  he  spoke  of  I  could  measure  the  force  of 
this  challenge.  "  Have  you  never  discovered,  all  this  time, 
that  my  brother's  work  is  my  pride  and  my  joy  ?  " 

"Oh,  my  dear  thing!" — and  Mr.  Bullen  broke  into  a  cry 
that  combined  in  the  drollest  way  the  attempt  to  lighten  his 


326  GOSMOPOLIS. 

guilt  with  the  attempt  to  deprecate  hers.  He  let  it  just  flash 
upon  us  that,  should  he  be  pushed,  he  would  show  as — well, 
scandalised. 

The  tone  in  which  Miss  Delavoy  again  addressed  him 
offered  a  reflection  of  this  gleam.  "  Do  you  know  what  my 
brother  would  think  of  you  ?  " 

He  was  quite  ready  with  his  answer,  and  there  was  no 
moment  in  the  whole  business  at  which  I  thought  so  well  of 
him.     "  I  don't  care  a  hang  what  your  brother  would  think  !  " 

"  Then  why  do  you  wish  to  commemorate  him  ?  " 

"  How  can  you  ask  so  innocent  a  question  ?     It  isn't  for  him" 

"  You  mean  it's  for  the  public  ?  " 

"  It's  for  the  magazine,"  he  said  with  a  noble  simplicity. 

"The  magazine  is  the  public,"  it  made  me  so  far  forget 
myself  as  to  suggest. 

'*  You've  discovered  it  late  in  the  day  !  Yes,"  he  went  on  to 
our  companion,  "  I  don't  in  the  least  mind  saying  I  don't  care. 
I  don't— I  don't ! "  he  repeated  with  a  sturdiness  in  which  I 
somehow  recognised  that  he  was,  after  all,  a  great  editor.  He 
looked  at  me  a  moment  as  if  he  even  guessed  what  I  saw,  and, 
not  unkindly,  desired  to  force  it  home.  "  I  don't  care  for 
anybody.  It's  not  my  business  to  care.  That's  not  the  way  to 
run  a  magazine.  Except  of  course  as  a  mere  man  !  "-  -and  he 
added  a  smile  for  Miss  Delavoy.  He  covered  the  whole 
ground  again.     "  Your  reminiscences  would  make  a  talk  I " 

She  came  back  from  the  greatest  distance  she  had  yet 
reached.     "  Mv  reminiscences  ?  " 

"  To  accompany  the  head."  He  must  have  been  as  tender 
as  if  I  had  been  away.     "  Don't  I  see  how  you'd  do  them  ?  " 

She  turned  off,  standing  before  the  fire  and  looking  into  it ; 
after  which  she  faced  him  again.  "  If  you'll  publish  our 
friend  here,  I'll  do  them." 

"  Why  are  you  so  awfully  wound  up  about  our  friend 
here  ?  " 

"  Read  his  article  over — with  a  little  intelligence — and  your 
question  will  be  answered." 

Mr.  Bullen  glanced  at  me  and  smiled  as  if  with  a  loyal 
warning  ;  then,  with  a  good  conscience,  he  let  me  have  it, 
"  Oh,  damn  his  article  ! " 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  327 

I  was  struck  with  her  replying  exactly  what  I  should  have 
replied  if  I  had  not  been  so  detached.  "  Damn  it  as  much  as 
you  like,  but  publish  it."  Mr.  BuUen,  on  this,  turned  to  me 
as  if  to  ask  me  if  I  had  not  heard  enough  to  satisfy  me  :  there 
was  a  visible  offer  in  his  face  to  give  me  more  if  I  insisted. 
This  amounted  to  an  appeal  to  me  to  leave  the  room  at  least 
for  a  minute  ;  and  it  was  perhaps  from  the  fear  of  what  might 
pass  between  us  that  Miss  Delavoy  once  more  took  him  up. 
*'  If  my  brother's  as  vile  as  you  say ! " 

"  Oh,  I  don't  say  he's  vile  ! "  he  broke  in. 

"  You  only  say  /  am  ! "  1  commented. 

"You've  entered  so  into  him,"  she  replied  to  me,  "that  it 
comes  to  the  same  thing.  And  Mr.  Bullen  says  further  that 
out  of  this  unmentionableness  he  wants  somehow  to  make 
something — some  money  or  some  sensation." 

"  My  dear  lady,"  Mr.  Bullen  reminded  her,  "  it's  a  very  great 
figure  ! " 

"  Precisely.  You  advertise  yourself  with  it  because  it's  a 
very  great  figure,  and  it's  a  very  great  figure  because  it  wrote 
very  great  things  that  you  wouldn't  for  the  world  allow  to  be 
intelligibly  or  critically  named.  So  you  bid  for  the  still  more 
striking  tribute  of  an  intimate  picture — an  unveiling  of  God 
knows  what  I— without  even  having  the  pluck  or  the  logic  to 
say  on  what  ground  it  is  that  you  go  in  for  naming  him  at  all. 
Do  you  know,  dear  Mr.  Bullen,"  she  asked,  "  that  you  make 
me  very  sick  ?  I  count  on  receiving  the  portrait,"  she  con- 
cluded, "  by  to-morrow  evening  at  latest." 

I  felt,  before  this  speech  was  over,  so  sorry  for  her  inter- 
locutor that  I  was  on  the  point  of  asking  her  if  she  mightn't 
finish  him  without  my  help.  But  I  had  lighted  a  flame  that 
was  to  consume  me  too,  and  1  was  aware  of  the  scorch  of  it 
while  I  watched  Mr.  Bullen  plead  frankly,  if  tacitly,  that, 
though  there  was  something  in  him  not  to  be  finished,  she 
must  yet  give  him  a  moment  and  let  him  take  his  time  to  look 
about  him  at  pictures  and  books.  He  took  it  with  more  cool- 
ness than  I  ;  then  he  produced  his  answer.  "  You  shall 
receive  it  to-morrow  morning  if  you'll  do  what  I  asked  the 
last  time."  1  could  see  more  than  he  how  the  last  time  had 
been  overlaid  by  what  had  since  come  up  ;  so  that,  as  she 


328  COSMOPOLIS. 

opposed  a  momentary  blank,  I  felt  almost  a  coarseness  in  his 
recall  of  it  with  an  "  Oh,  you  know — you  know  ! " 

Yes,  after  a  little  she  knew,  and  I  need  scarcely  add  that  1 
did.  I  felt,  in  the  oddest  way,  by  this  time,  that  she  was 
conscious  of  my  penctnition,  and  wished  to  make  me,  for  the 
loss  now  so  clearly  beyond  repair,  the  only  compensation  in 
her  power.  This  compensation  consisted  of  her  showing  me 
that  she  was  indifferent  to  my  having  guessed  the  full  extent 
of  the  privilege  that,  on  the  occasion  to  which  he  alluded,  she 
had  permitted  Mr.  Bullen  to  put  before  her.  The  balm  for 
my  wound  was  therefore  to  see  what  she  resisted.  She  resisted 
Mr.  Bullen  in  more  ways  than  one.  "  And  if  I  don't  do  it  ?  " 
she  demanded. 

"  ril  simply  keep  your  picture  ! " 

"  To  what  purpose  if  you  don't  use  it  't " 

*'  To  keep  it  is  to  use  it,"  Mr.  Bullen  said. 

"  He  has  only  to  keep  it  long  enough,"  I  added,  and  with 
the  intention  that  may  be  imagined,  "  to  bring  you  round, 
by  the  mere  sense  of  privation,  to  meet  him  on  the  other 
ground." 

Miss  Delavoy  took  no  more  notice  of  this  speech  than  if  she 
had  not  heard  it,  and  Mr.  Bullen  showed  that  he  had  heard  it 
only  enough  to  show,  more  markedly,  that  he  followed  her 
example.  "  Til  do  anything,  I'll  do  everything  for  you  in  life," 
he  declared  to  her,  "  but  publish  such  a  thing  as  that." 

She  gave  in  all  decorum  to  this  statement  the  minute  of 
concentration  that  belonged  to  it  ;  but  her  analysis  of  the 
matter  had  for  sole  effect  to  make  her  at  last  bring  out, 
not  with  harshness,  but  with  a  kind  of  wondering  pity  :  "  1 
think  you're  really  very  dreadful  ! " 

"  In  what  esteem  then,  Mr.  Bullen,"  I  asked,  "  do  you  hold 
John  Delavoy's  work  ?  " 

He  rang  out  clear.  "  As  the  sort  of  thing  that's  out  of  our 
purview !"  If  for  a  second  he  had  hesitated  it  was  partly,  I 
judge,  with  just  resentment  at  my  so  directly  addressing  him, 
and  partly,  though  he  wished  to  show  our  friend  that  he  fairly 
faced  the  question,  because  experience  had  not  left  him  in 
such  a  case  without  two  or  three  alternatives.  He  had  already 
made  plain  indeed  that  he  mostly  preferred  the  simplest. 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  {329 

"  Wonderful,  wonderful  purview  ! "  I  quite  sincerely,  or  at 
all  events  very  musingly,  exclaimed. 

"  Tfien,  if  you  could  ever  have  got  one  of  his  novels ?  " 

Miss  Delavoy  inquired. 

He  smiled  at  the  way  she  put  it ;  it  made  such  an  image  of 
the  attitude  of  The  Cynosure.  But  he  was  kind  and  explicit. 
''There  isn't  one  that  wouldn't  have  been  beyond  us.  We 
could  never  have  run  him.  We  could  never  have  handled 
him.  We  could  never,  in  fact,  have  touched  him.  We 
should  have  dropped  to^oh.  Lord ! "  He  saw  the  ghastly 
figure  he  couldn't  name,  and  brushed  it  away  with  a 
shudder. 

I  turned,  on  this,  to  our  companion.  "  I  wish  awfully 
you'd  do  what  he  asks ! "  She  stared  an  instant,  mystified  ; 
then  I  quickly  explained  to  which  of  his  requests  I  referred. 
*'  I  mean  I  wish  you'd  do  the  nice  familiar  chat  about  the 
sweet  home-life.  You  might  make  it  inimitable,  and,  upon 
my  word,  I'd  give  you  for  it  the  assistance  of  my  general 
lights.  The  thing  is — don't  you  see  ? — that  it  would  put  Mr. 
Bullen  in  a  grand  position.  Your  position  would  be  grand," 
1  hastened  to  add  as  I  looked  at  him,  "  because  it  would  be 
so  admirably  false."  Then,  more  seriously,  1  felt  the  impulse 
even  to  warn  him.  "  1  don't  think  you're  quite  aware  of  what 
you'd  make  it.  Are  you  really  quite  conscious  ?  "  1  went  on 
with  a  benevolence  that  struck  him,  1  was  presently  to  learn, 
as  a  depth  of  fatuity. 

He  was  to  show  once  more  that  he  was  a  rock.  "Conscious? 
Why  should  I  be  ?     Nobody's  conscious." 

He  was  splendid  ;  yet  before  1  could  control  it  I  had  risked 
the  challenge  of  a  "  Nobody." 

"  Who's  anybody  ?    The  public  isn't  1 " 

"  Then  why  are  you  afraid  of  it  ?  "  Miss  Delavoy  demanded. 

"  Don't  ask  him  that,"  1  answered  ;  "  you  expose  yourself 
to  his  telling  you  that,  if  the  public  isn't  anybody,  that's  still 
more  the  case  with  your  brother." 

Mr.  Bullen  appeared  to  accept  as  a  convenience  this  some- 
what inadequate  protection  ;  he  at  any  rate  under  cover  ot  it 
again  addressed  us  lucidly.  "There's  only  one  false  posihon 
— the  one  you  seem  so  to  wish  to  put  me  in." 


33©  COSMOPOLIS. 

I  instantly  met  him.     "  That  of  losing ? " 

"  That  of  losing ! " 

"Oh,  fifty  thousand — yes.  And  they  wouldn't  see  anything 
the  matter ?  " 

"With  the  position,"  said  Mr.  Bullen,  "that  you  qualify, 
I  neither  know  nor  care  why,  as  false."  Suddenly,  in  a 
different  tone,  almost  genially,  he  continued  :  "  For  what  do 
you  take  them  ?  " 

For  what  indeed  ? — but  it  didn't  signify.  "  It's  enough 
that  I  take  you-^ior  one  of  the  masters."  It's  literal  that  as 
he  stood  there  in  his  florid  beauty  and  complete  command  I 
felt  his  infinite  force,  and,  with  a  gush  of  admiration,  won- 
dered how,  for  our  young  lady,  there  could  be  at  such  a 
moment  another  man.  "  We  represent  different  sides,"  1 
rather  lamely  said.  Hoivever,  I  picked  up.  "  It  isn't  a 
question  of  where  we  are,  but  of  what.  You're  not  on  a  side 
— you  are  a  side.  You're  the  right  one.  What  a  misery,"  I 
pursued,  "  for  us  not  to  be  '  on  '  you  !  " 

His  eyes  showed  me  for  a  second  that  he  yet  saw  how  our 
not  being  on  him  did  just  have  for  it  that  it  could  facilitate 
such  a  speech  ;  then  they  rested  afresh  on  Miss  Delavoy,  and 
that  brought  him  back  to  firm  ground.  "  I  don't  think  you 
can  imagine  how  it  will  come  out." 

He  was  astride  of  the  portrait  again,  and  presently  again  she 

had  focussed  him.     "If  it  does  come  out !"  she  began, 

poor  girl ;  but  it  was  not  to  take  her  far. 

"  Well,  if  it  does ?  " 

"  He  means  what  will  you  do  then  ?  "  1  observed,  as  she  had 
nothing  to  say. 

"  Mr.  Bullen  will  see,"  she  at  last  replied  with  a  perceptible 
lack  of  point. 

He  took  this  up  in  a  flash.  "  My  dear  young  lady,  it's 
you  who'll  see ;  and  when  you've  seen  you'll  forgive  me. 
Only  wait  till  you  do!"  He  was  already  at  the  door, 
as  if  he  quite  believed  in  what  he  should  gain  by  the 
gain,  from  this  moment,  of  time.  He  stood  there  but 
an  instant — he  looked  from  one  of  us  to  the  other.  "  It 
will  be  a  nice  ithing  ! "  he  remarked  ;  and  with  that  he  left 
us  gaping. 


JOHN   DELAVOY.  331 


VIII. 


The  first  use  I  made  of  our  rebound  was  to  say  with 
intensity  :   "  What  will  you  do  if  he  does  ?  " 

"  Does  publish  the  picture  ?  "  There  was  an  instant  charm 
to  me  in  the  privacy  of  her  full  collapse  and  the  sudden 
high  tide  of  our  common  defeat.  "  What  can  I  ?  It's  all  very 
well ;  but  there's  nothing  to  be  done.  I  want  never  to  see 
him  again.  There's  only  something,"  she  went  on,  "  that  you 
can  do." 

*'  Prevent  him  ? — get  it  back  ?  I'll  do,  be  sure,  my  utmost  ; 
but  it  will  be  difficult  without  a  row." 

"  What  do  you  mean  by  a  row  ?  "  she  asked. 
"  I  mean  it  will  be  difficult  without  publicity.     I  don't  think 
we  want  publicity." 

She  turned  this  over.     "  Because  it  will  advertise  him  ?" 
"  His  magnificent  energy.     Remember  what  I  just  now  told 
him.     He's  the  right  side." 

"And  we're  the  wrong  !"  she  laughed.     "We  mustn't  make 
that  known — I  see.     But,  all  the  same,  save  my  sketch  ! " 
I  held  her  hands.     "  Ahd  if  I  do  ?  " 

"Ah,  get  it  back  first !  "  she  answered,  ever  so  genlly  and 
with  a  smile,  but  quite  taking  them  away. 

I  got  it  back,  alas  !  neither  first  nor  last ;  though  indeed   at 

the  end  this  was  to  matter,  as  I  thought  and  as  I  found,  little 

enough.     Mr.  Bullen  rose  to  his  full  height  and  was  not  to 

abate  an  inch  even  on  my  offer  of  another  article  on  a  subject 

notoriously  unobjectionable.    The  only  portrait  of  John  Delavoy 

was  going,  as  he  had  said,  to  take,  and  nothing  was  to  stand 

in  its  way.     I  besieged  his  office,  I  waylaid  his  myrmidons,  I 

haunted  his  path,  I  poisoned,  1  tried  to  flatter  myself,  his  life  ; 

I  wrote  him  at  any  rate  letters  by  the  dozen  and  showed  him 

up  to  his  friends  and  his  enemies.     The  only  thing  I  didn't  do 

was  to  urge  Miss  Delavoy  to  write  to  her  solicitors  or  to  the 

newspapers.    The  final  result,  of  course,  of  what  I  did  and 

what  I  didn't  was  to  create,  on  the  subject  of  the  sole  copy  of 

so  rare  an  original,  a  curiosity  that,  by  the  time  The  Cynosure 

appeared  with  the  reproduction,  made  the  month's  sale,  as  I 

was  destined  to  learn,  take  a  tremendous  Jump.    The  portrait 


332  COSMOPOLIS. 

of  John  Delavoy,  prodigiously  "paragraphed"  in  advance  and 
with  its  authorship  flushing  through,  was  accompanied  by  a 
page  or  two,  from  an  anonymous  hand,  of  the  pleasantest 
liveliest  comment.  The  press  was  genial,  the  success  immense 
current  criticism  had  never  flowed  so  full,  and  it  was  universally 
felt  that  the  handsome  thing  had  been  done.  The  process 
employed  by  Mr.  Bullen  had  left,  as  he  had  promised,  nothing 
to  be  desired  ;  and  the  sketch  itself,  the  next  week,  arrived  in 
safety,  and  with  only  a  smutch  or  two,  by  the  post.  I  placed 
my  article,  naturally,  in  another  magazine,  but  was  disappointed, 
1  confess,  as  to  what  it  discoverably  did  in  literary  circles  for 
its  subject.  This  ache,  however,  was  muffled.  There  was  a 
worse  victim  than  I,  and  there  was  a  consolation,  of  a  sort,  in 
our  having  out  together  the  question  of  literary  circles.  The 
great  orb  of  The  Cynositre,  wasn't  that  a  literary  circle  ?  By 
the  time  we  had  fairly  to  face  this  question  we  had  achieved 
the  union  that — at  least  for  resistance  or  endurance — is  sup- 
posed to  be  strength. 

Henry  James. 


THE  THHORHTICAL  FOTNOA  IION    OI 

SOCIALISM. 


A  Reply  to  Mr.  Hyndmax. 

I  WAS  correcting  the  proofs  of  a  book,  now  shortly  to  be 
published,  which  deals  very  largely  with  the  sociological  fallacies 
of  Socialism,  when  I  received  an  invitation  from  the  Editor  of 
this  journal  to  make  such  reply  as  might  be  possible  to  the 
various  views  and  arguments  set  forth  in  it  last  month  by  Mr. 
Hyndman,  with  regard  to  Socialism  in  our  own  country.  I 
accepted  the  invitation  with  pleasure,  because  I  find  in  Mr. 
Hyndman's  article  a  new  exemplification  of  all  the  more 
important  fallacies  to  the  exposure  of  which  the  book  just 
referred  to  is  devoted. 

Before,  however,  touching  upon  the  points  as  to  which  Mr. 
Hyndman  is  in  hopeless  error,  it  will  be  well  to  mention  that 
there  are  some  as  to  which  all  good  men  will  agree  with  him. 
His  general  desire  that  the  poorest  classes  of  society  should  be 
redeemed,  so  far  as  is  possible,  from  conditions  that  are 
incompatible  with  happiness;  his  general  belief  that  most  of 
our  social  arrangements  are  susceptible  of  great  improvement, 
and,  indeed,  some  of  the  measures  which  he  and  his  friends 
advocate  as  immediate  steps  towards  improving  them,  are 
calculated  to  excite  intellectual  and  moral  approval  even 
amongst  those  lost  souls  the  capitalists,  whom  he  looks  on  as 
his  inveterate  enemies.  Mr.  Hyndman,  it  is  true,  will  not 
return  the  compliment.  He  admits  that  the  classes,  whom 
he  hopes  some  day  to  annihilate,  express  a  sympathy  with 
humanity  almost  as  deep  as  his  own,  and  that  many  of  their 
number    are    actually    prepared    to    support    a   few    of    the 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXVI.  2 


334  COSMOFOLIS. 

immediate  reforms  which  Socialists  themselves  advocate.  But 
all  this,  he  says,  is  merely  astute  hypocrisy.  These  sham 
capitalistic  philanthropists  are  willing  to  distribute  amongst  the 
masses  a  portion  of  the  treasure  which  Mr.  Hyndman  offers 
them,  in  the  hopes  that  the  masses  will  forget,  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  the  part,  to  support  Mr.  Hyndman  in  his  efforts  to 
give  them  the  whole.  We,  therefore,  who  come  under  Mr. 
Hyndman's  ban,  must  be  content  to  think  more  charitably  of 
him  than  he  can  bring  himself  to  think  of  us.  In  the  following 
observations,  at  all  events,  the  excellence  of  his  intentions  will 
be  assumed ;  whatever  is  said  to  the  disadvantage  of  his 
opinions  must  be  taken  purely  as  a  criticism  on  his  charac- 
teristic deficiencies  as  a  reasoner  ;  and,  indeed,  I  am  led  to 
comment  on  his  characteristic  deficiencies  as  a  reasoner,  not 
because  they  are  peculiar  to  Mr.  Hyndman,  but  because,  being 
characteristic  of  Socialists  generally,  they  are  exhibited  in  Mr. 
Hyndman's  mind  on  a  somewhat  magnified  scale.  Socialists,  in 
fact,  regarded  as  thinkers  and  theorists,  are  Socialists  only  in 
virtue  of  these  deficiencies.  The  very  essence  of  the  Socialistic 
theory,  as  distinguished  from  other  theories  of  society,  is  that 
it  rests  on  certain  confusions  of  thought,  certain  errors  in 
historical  and  social  analysis,  and  in  what  Mr.  Herbert  Spencer 
calls  "  an  inability  to  comprehend  assembled  propositions  in 
their  totality,"  and  could,  indeed,  not  exist  without  them. 

The  main  proposition  which  Mr.  Hyndman  seeks  to 
establish  is  that  Socialism,  in  spite  of  some  appearances  to  the 
contrary,  is  surely,  if  slowly,  making  its  way  in  this  country ; 
and  that,  apart  from  any  efforts  made  by  Socialists  as  an 
organised  body,  their  ideal  is  being  inevitably  realised  by  the 
transforming  process  of  evolution.  The  duty  of  Socialists, 
therefore,  is  little  more  than  to  accelerate  a  revolution  which, 
sooner  or  later,  would  be  accomplished  without  their  aid. 

In  order  to  discuss  to  any  purpose  whether  tliis  proposition 
is  true  or  false,  we  must  first  make  ourselves  clear  as  to  what 
Socialism  is ;  and  in  asking  what  Socialism  is,  we  must  not 
distract  our  minds  by  considering  all  the  tenets  which  Socialists 
may  happen  to  hold,  for  many  of  these  are  political  rather  than 
social,  and  are  capable  of  being  held,  and  are  held,  by  many 
who  are  not  Socialists.     All  that  we  have  here  to  do  with  is 


THE   THEORETICAL   FOUNDATION   OF  SOCIALISM.  -XT^K 

that  nucleus  of  tenets  or  doctrines  which  are  held  by  the 
Socialists,  and  are  held  by  nobody  else ;  and  these  peculiar 
and  distinctive  doctrines  are  not  poHtical  but  economic.  They 
have  to  do  with  one  subject,  and  with  one  subject  only — that 
is  to  say,  with  the  production  and  the  distribution  of  wealth: 
and  the  only  reform,  essentially  peculiar  to  themselves,  which 
the  Socialists  have  in  view,  is  so  to  rearrange  the  conditions 
under  which  wealth  is  produced,  that  every  member  of  the 
community  shall  receive  an  equal  share  of  it,  and  all  distinc- 
tions of  class  be,  as  Mr.  Hyndman  says,  "  for  ever  abolished." 
Now,  this  programme  with  regard  to  the  distribution  of  wealth 
is  based  by  the  Socialists  on  certain  peculiar  theories  with 
regard  to  its  production.  It  is  true  that  the  quicker-witted 
amongst  their  thinkers,  both  in  our  own  and  in  other 
countries,  have  rejected  many  of  the  fallacies  to  which  Mr. 
Hyndman  clings  ;  but  his  fundamental  errors  are  nevertheless 
retained  by  them,  and  accordingly  an  examination  of  what 
Mr.  Hyndman  means  by  Socialism  will  be,  with  certain  reserv- 
ations, an  examination  of  Socialism  generally. 

The  peculiar  theories  with  regard  to  the  production  of  wealth 
on  which,  as  a  speculative  system,  Mr.  Hyndman's  Socialism 
rests,  are  not  distinctly  stated  by  him  in  the  article  with  which 
we  are  now  concerned ;  but  on  various  occasions  he  has 
explained  them  with  great  emphasis,  and  in  his  present  article 
he  makes  definite  and  pointed  allusions  to  them.  They  divide 
themselves,  he  says,  into  two,  one  of  which  is  concerned 
"with  the  growth  of  man  in  society  though  ages  past,  up 
to  our  capitalist  society  of  to-day  "  ;  while  the  other  "  takes 
account  of  the  facts  of  our  own  time."  Both  of  these  theories 
to  which  Mr.  Hyndman  alludes  were  formulated  by  Karl  Marx, 
of  whom  he  is  the  avowed  disciple,  and  his  books  and  other 
writings  have  been  little  more  than  attempts  to  make  the 
doctrines  of  Marx  intelligible  to  the  English  public.  Let  me 
indicate  very  briefly  what  these  two  theories  are.  The  first, 
which  deals  with  the  development  of  human  society,  aims  at 
representing  capitalism  as  a  mere  form  of  industrial  organisa- 
tion, due  to  historical  causes,  which  came  into  operation  at 
the  close  of  the  middle  ages,  and  which  is  destined  to  be 
dissolved    by   the  operation  of   historical  causes  now.     The 


336  COSMOPOLIS. 

ancient  slaveries  rose  and  fell  in  the  same  way,  feudal  society 
rose  and  fell  in  the  same  way;  and  just  as  feudalism  succeeded 
slavery,  and  capitalism  succeeded  feudalism,  so  is  Socialism 
destined  to  succeed  capitalism.  The  second  theory,  which  "takes 
account  of  the  facts  of  our  own  times,"  has  its  foundation  in 
Marx's  celebrated  analysis  of  value.  All  wealth  in  the  modern 
world— so  runs  his  argument — is  measured  in  terms  of  value,  or 
of  exchange-value  ;  and  the  exchange-value  of  commodities  is, 
according  to  him,  determined  by  the  amount  of  common  or 
average  labour  that  is  embodied  in  them.  Hence,  says  Marx, 
it  follows  that  all  wealth  is  created  by  manual  labour  ;  that  the 
manual  labourer,  in  consequence,  ought  to  own  the  whole  of 
it ;  and  that  the  existing  propertied  classes  derive  their  entire 
incomes  from  the  legalised  plunder  of  those  who  really  produce 
them. 

Let  us  give  our  attention  to  this  latter  theory  first.  In  a 
book  called  "  England  for  All,"  Mr.  Hyndman  has  endea- 
voured to  express  it  in  terms  intelligible  to  the  vulgar.  He 
asks  his  reader  to  consider  a  few  simple  commodities,  such  as 
boots,  coats,  and  boxes,  and  to  suppose  that  it  takes  a  man 
two  days  to  make  a  pair  of  boots,  four  days  to  make  a  coat, 
and  one  day  to  make  a  box.  In  that  case  the  exchange-value 
of  a  coat  will  be  four  boxes,  or  two  pairs  of  boots.  If  the 
time  occupied  in  making  the  coat  is  halved,  the  exchange- 
value  of  the  coat  will  be  halved  also,  and  in  order  to  procure 
four  boxes  or  two  pairs  of  boots,  the  coat-maker  will  have  to 
give  two  coats  instead  of  one.  He  will,  says  Mr.  Hyndman, 
have  produced  more  value-in-usc,  but  he  will  merely  have 
produced  the  same  value-in-exchange.  It  is  true,  he  says,  that 
the  employment  of  machinery  does  add  something  to  the  total 
exchange-value  of  the  commodities  multiplied  by  its  means  ; 
but  it  adds  to  their  value  solely  because  it  is  the  embodiment 
of  so  much  common  labour  itself,  and  is  gradually  worn  out 
in  use,  and  requires  more  common  labour  to  renew  it.  The 
material  and  cost  of  the  wheels,  as  it  were,  is  incorporated  in 
coats  or  boots. 

Such  being  the  case,  then,  says  Mr.  Hyndman,  the  position 
of  the  existing  propertied  classes  is  as  follows  :  They  are  a  set 
of  persons  who,  by  one  means  or  another,  have  succeeded  in 


THE   THEORETICAL   FOUNDATION   OF  SOCIAI  ISM.  337 

acquiring  the  control  of  all  those  means  of  production  without 
which  the  common  labourer  can  naturally  produce  nothing. 
They  first  monopolised  the  land,  as  the  feudal  system  decayed  ; 
and  gradually  as  mankind  learned  more  of  the  forces  of 
nature,  as  steam-power  and  machinery  were  developed,  and 
as  production  on  a  large  scale,  with  its  vast  and  complicated 
appliances,  succeeded  production  on  a  small  scale,  with  its  few 
and  simple  tools,  these  same  propertied  classes  succeeded  in 
monopolising  not  the  land  only,  but  all  the  implements  of 
industry.  The  manual  labourer  was  thus  placed  at  their  mercy. 
He  had  to  work,  unless  he  was  prepared  to  die  ;  but  he  had 
nothing  to  work  upon,  or  to  work  with,  unless  the  propertied 
classes  would  give  him  access  to  their  land  and  factories.  They 
accordingly  allowed  him  the  privilege  of  working,  but  exacted 
as  the  price  of  their  concession  everything  that  he  produced, 
except  the  miserable  minimum  that  would  just  keep  him  alive, 
and  enable  him  to  continue  his  labours. 

All  the  wealth  of  the  existing  propertied  classes  comes, 
says  Mr.  Hyndman,  from  this  system  of  spoliation  ;  and, 
in  order  that  his  readers  may  make  no  mistake  about  his 
meaning,  he  puts  before  them  the  following  imaginary  case  : 
A  man,  he  says,  has  ;^io,ooo,  which  he  proceeds  to  invest  in  a 
business,  and  makes  it  yield  him  a  permanent  income.  He 
has,  says  Mr.  Hyndman,  merely  to  buy  a  cotton-mill,  hire  a 
manager,  and  the  whole  thing  is  done.  He  may  take  his 
ease.  His  income  is  secure  for  ever.  Now  we  will  suppose, 
says  Mr.  Hyndman,  for  the  sake  of  argument,  that  the  original 
;^io,ooo  has  been  somehow  or  other  fairly  come  by  ;  but  the 
origin  of  the  income  that  it  secures  for  its  possessor,  when 
used  as  capital,  "stares  us  in  the  face."  This  income  is  simply 
two  thirds  or  three  quarters  of  the  product  of  the  labour  of 
the  mill-hands,  who  are  allowed  to  retain,  in  order  that  they 
may  live  and  work,  one  third  or  one  quarter  of  the  total 
wealth  produced  by  them.  Consequently  the  reform  which 
it  is  the  object  of  Socialism  to  accomplish  is,  in  its  essence, 
extremely  simple.  It  is  the  expropriation  of  the  passive  and 
"  non-producing "  class,  which,  Mr.  Hyndman  has  told  us 
over  and  over  again,  for  every  ;^ioo  spent  in  wages,  takes  in 
the  form  of  profits  from  ;^300  to  £400.    It  is  the  expropriation 


338  COSMOPOLIS. 

of  this  claso,  who  own  the  means  of  production,  and  the 
placing  of  these  means  under  the  control  of  the  manual 
labourers,  who,  according  to  him,  are  the  only  "real  pro- 
ducers." When  this  is  done,  the  economic  problem  will  be 
solved.  The  income  of  every  labourer  will  be  at  once  trebled 
or  quadrupled ;  and,  seeing  that  "  the  power  of  man  to  pro- 
duce wealth  increases,"  as  Mr.  Hyndman  says  in  his  present 
article,  "  far  more  rapidly  than  any  increase  of  population 
known,"  the  labourers  (who,  under  Socialism,  will  comprise 
the  whole  adult  male  population)  will  not  only  at  once  have 
their  incomes  trebled  or  quadrupled,  but  they  will  have  their 
hours  of  labour  reduced  to  about  a  third  of  what  they  are  at 
present. 

Now,  the  theory  of  production  on  which  Mr.  Hyndman's 
arguments  are  grounded,  though  it  is  elaborated  by  Karl  Marx 
with  very  considerable  ingenuity,  is  really  one  of  the  com- 
pletest  intellectual  mare's  nests  of  the  century,  and  few  people 
have  done  more  to  reduce  it  to  an  absurdity  than  Mr. 
Hyndman  has  by  the  examples  which  he  has  given  us  to  prove 
its  truth.  Does  Mr.  Hyndman  really  imagine  that  it  is  easy  for 
everybody  to  invest  money,  like  his  supposed  purchaser  of  the 
cotton-mill,  in  such  a  way  that  he  will  inevitably  receive  an 
income  of  from  three  to  four  times  the  amount  that  he  spends  in 
wages  ?  This  must  be  so  if  his  theory  of  production  is  correct. 
Indeed,  if  the  value  of  goods  depends  on  the  amount  of  labour 
embodied  in  them,  how  is  it  possible  that  any  business  can 
fail  ?  But  the  fallacy  of  this  entire  theory  can  be  seen  even 
more  clearly  by  examining  the  error  of  its  premises  than  by 
considering  the  absurdity  of  its  conclusions.  In  the  first 
place,  then,  the  attempt  to  prove  that  by  multiplying  the 
number  of  commodities  produced  by  the  same  labour  values- 
in-use  are  multiplied,  but  the  value-in-exchange  of  the  total 
remains  unaltered,  and  that,  consequently,  men  who  introduce 
successful  machinery  establish  thereby  no  claim  to  exceptional 
wealth,  is  a  masterpiece  of  crude  confusion.  If,  says  Mr. 
Hyndman,  it  takes  four  days  to  make  two  coats  and  two  days  to 
make  a  pair  of  boots,  one  coat  is  worth  two  pairs  of  boots  ; 
but  if  the  time  required  to  make  one  coat  is  halved,  then, 
though  two  useful  coats  will  be  made  in  four  days  instead  of 


THE   THEORETICAL   FOUNDATION   OF  SOCIALISM.         339 

one  coat,  yet  the  exchange-value  of  each  coat  will  be  halved, 
and  the  coat-maker  will,  in  exchange  for  two  coats,  get  no  more 
boxes  than  he  formerly  got  for  one.  Now,  in  the  first  place, 
it  must  be  observed  that  this  by  no  means  follows  ;  for  if  the 
coat-maker's  productivity  were  doubled  owing  to  some  peculiar 
talent  of  his  own,  the  exchange-value  of  his  coats  would  remain 
unaltered,  however  much  his  own  labour  might  be  diminished, 
for  their  value  would  depend,  not  on  the  time  which  he  himself 
took  in  making  them,  but  on  the  time  that,  if  he  did  not  make 
them,  would  be  necessarily  taken  by  any  other  man.  But  in 
Mr.  Hyndman's  reasoning  there  is  another  hiatus  also  ;  for  if 
his  supposition  that  the  labour  necessary  to  make  a  coat  is 
halved  is  to  be  taken  as  typical  of  the  increase  of  productive 
power  that  has  actually  taken  place  owing  to  inventions  and 
other  causes,  his  supposition  must  not  be  confined  to  the 
production  of  one  commodity  only.  It  must  be  applied  to  the 
making  of  boots  and  boxes  also.  Now,  if  the  boot-maker's 
productivity  is  increased  in  the  same  ratio  as  the  coat-maker's, 
not  only  will  the  values-in-use  produced  by  the  latter  be  doubled, 
but  the  values-in-exchange  will  be  doubled  at  the  same  time ;  for 
four  pairs  of  boots  will,  in  that  case,  be  produced  in  four  days, 
instead  of  two  pairs  ;  and  thus  each  coat  will  exchange  for  two 
pairs  of  boots  as  before,  only  the  coat-maker  will  in  four  days 
have  two  coats  to  exchange  for  boots  instead  of  one  cont,  and 
he  will  consequently  be  enabled  to  purchase  with  the  results  of 
his  four  days'  labour  four  pairs  of  boots  instead  of  two  pairs. 
The  exchange-value  of  each  coat  will  remain  the  same,  but 
the  number  of  coats  which  he  has  to  exchange  for  boots  will 
be  doubled.  Or,  to  express  the  matter  in  terms  of  money,  the 
purchasing  power  of  each  shilling  which  he  earns  will  be 
unaltered,  but  he  will  earn  by  the  same  labour  twice  as  many 
shillings  as  before.  Mr.  Hyndman  has  twisted  the  truth  that 
the  multiplication  of  shillings  in  a  man's  pocket  need  not 
necessarily  make  each  shilling  more  valuable,  into  the  absurd 
and  meaningless  falsehood  that  if  a-  man,  having  earned  five 
shillings  a  day  yesterday,  earns  ten  to-morrow,  he  will  indeed 
have  ten  shillings  instead  of  five,  but  the  Vcilue  of  each  shilling 
will  be  reduced  to  sixpence.  Taking,  then,  the  production  of 
commodities  as  a  whole,  whatever  increases  the  productivity 


340  COSMOPOLIS. 

of  human  labour,  and  enables  the  same  amount  of  labour  to 
produce  an  increased  amount  of  generally  desired  commodities, 
increases  in  every  sense  the  wealth  of  the  community. 

We  need  not,  however,  dwell  upon  this  point  longer, 
because  no  class  of  thinkers  more  completely  contradict  the 
argument  that  has  just  been  examined  than  do  the  Socialists 
themselves.  For  the  fact  that  wealth,  in  the  fullest  and  most 
comprehensive  sense  of  the  word,  is  constantly  increasing 
faster  than  the  amount  of  average  labour  involved  in  its 
production,  is  one  of  the  principal  themes  of  all  the  apostles  of 
Socialism.  Mr.  Hyndman,  for  instance,  dilates  on  it  in  his 
present  article.  In  the  "  Manifesto  "  which  he  issued  for  his 
''Social  Democratic  F^ederation,"  he  alluded  to  it  in  accents  of 
thunder  as  "  the  main  feature  of  our  epoch  "  ;  and  in  another 
of  his  utterances,  made  a  few  years  later,  he  called  attention  to 
the  fact  that  the  wealth  annually  appropriated  by  those  whose 
incomes  were  over  ;/.i5o  "actually  equalled  in  1882  the  total 
production  in  1842."  Obviously,  therefore,  to  say  that  labour 
is  the  measure  of  exchange-value  is  not  the  same  thing  as  to 
say  that  labour  is  the  sole  producer  of  wealth  ;  for  since  "the 
main  feature  of  our  epoch  "  is  that  the  same  amount  of  labour 
is  constantly  producing  a  larger  amount  of  wealth,  the  amount 
of  labour  that  a  community  expends  in  wealth-production 
is  not  in  itself  any  index  of  how  much  w^calth  a  country 
produces  ;  and  for  those  the  main  object  of  whose  reforms 
is  completely  to  redistribute  wealth,  whilst  maintaining,  and 
even  increasing  its  production,  the  primary  problem  is  not 
how  different  kinds  of  wealth  are  for  purposes  of  exchange 
measured  against  each  other,  but  how  the  total  is  produced, 
and  on  what  the  amount  of  the  total  depends. 

Even,  then,  if  we  grant  for  a  moment  that  the  primary  doctrine 
of  Marx  is  true,  and  that  labour  is  the  measure  of  value,  or  of 
the  ratio  in  which  goods  are  exchanged  for  one  another,  the 
reader  may  well  wonder  how  the  leap  is  made  from  this  to  the 
doctrine  which  Mr.  Hyndman  has  taken  for  his  motto  as  an 
agitator — "All  wealth  is  due  to  labour;  therefore  to  the 
labourer  all  wealth  is  due."  The  train  of  argument,  however, 
involved  in  the  whole  proceeding  has  in  it  a  certain  element  of 
truth  ;  and  in  order  to  see  how  false  it  is  as  a  whole,  it  will  hq 


THE  THEORETICAL   FOUNDATION   OF  SOCIALISM.  34 1 

necessary  to  recognise  precisely  the  small  part  of  it  that  is 
true.  The  doctrine,  then,  that  average  labour  is  the  measure 
of  value,  and  that  commodities  exchange  in  proportion  to  the 
amount  of  average  labour  embodied  in  them,  is  actually 
true  of  commodities  produced  under  certain  conditions  of 
society  ;  and  if  certain  other  conditions  existed  it  would  be 
true  also  under  these.  It  is  true  of  commodities  produced 
in  the  very  infancy  of  the  arts,  when  in  point  of  skill  and 
efficiency  all  labourers  are  approximately  equal.  That  is  to 
say,  average  labour  is  the  measure  of  the  value  of  products, 
when  the  kind  of  labour-force  possessed  by  the  average 
man  is  the  sole  human  force  that  is  in  any  way  concerned 
in  their  production.  Now,  under  such  conditions,  average 
labour  is  not  only  the  measure  of  exchange-values,  but  it 
is  also  the  measure  of  the  sum  total  of  wealth  produced  ; 
for  the  amount  of  products  produced  will  naturally  rise  and 
fall  with  the  number  of  hours  for  which  the  members  of  the 
community  labour.  But  if  we  take  labour  in  any  of  its  lower 
states  of  efficiency  as  our  starting  point,  and  consider  that  the 
whole  history  of  economic  progress  is  the  history  of  the  increase 
in  the  amount  of  desirable  commodities  produced  relatively  to 
the  amount  of  average  labour  involved  in  their  production, 
does  labour  remain  the  measure  of  the  total  product  still  ? 
Under  certain  circumstances,  but  under  certain  circumstances 
only,  it  would  do  so.  Let  us  consider  what  these  circum- 
stances are.  Average  labour  would  remain  the  measure  of 
value,  no  matter  how  much  its  productivity  might  increase,  if 
the  increase  in  its  productivity  were  due  to  some  spontaneous 
change  in  itself — to  some  additional  powers  added  to  it  by  the 
Deity,  and  added  to  the  labour  of  every  human  being  equally, 
and  if  no  other  human  agency  had  anything  to  do  with  the 
change.  Let  us  suppose,  for  instance,  that  a  hundred  men,  all 
equally  strong,  and  exerting  themselves  to  an  equal  degree,  are 
mounted  on  bicycles,  precisely  similar  in  construction,  and  that 
they  are  riding  over  the  same  ground.  Let  us  suppose  also 
that  their  bicycles  are  of  very  primitive  construction,  and  that 
a  given  amount  of  muscular  effort  propels  them  all  at  the  rate 
of  six  miles  an  hour.  It  is  evident  that,  in  such  a  case,  if  we 
Icnow  the  number  of  hours  for  which  any  one  man  rides  his 


342  COSMOPOLIS. 

bicycle,  we  shall  know  the  distance  he  has  gone.  Thus,  if  we 
take  the  miles  travelled  by  a  man  as  the  type  of  economic  services, 
or,  what  is  the  same  thing,  economic  products  generally,  not 
only  will  one  of  these  men  by  riding  an  hour  produce  just  the 
same  value  as  any  other  of  them,  but  by  knowing  the  aggregate 
number  of  hours  for  which  they  have  all  ridden  in  a  day,  we 
shall  know  precisely  the  aggregate  value  produced  by  them. 
And  now  let  us  suppose  that  suddenly,  whilst  these  men  are 
riding,  the  structure  of  their  bicycles  is  miraculously  changed 
and  improved,  so  that  without  any  additional  exertion  on 
their  part  they  find  themselves  going  twelve  miles  an  hour 
instead  of  six.  So  long  as  we  are  made  aware  that  this  miracle 
has  happened,  the  labour  of  the  men  will  still  be,  as  before, 
the  measure  of  the  distance  ridden  by  them,  or  of  the  economic 
values  they  produce.  We  have  merely  in  our  calculation  to 
substitute  the  figure  12  for  the  figure  6.  Let  us,  however, 
alter  this  last  supposition  somewhat.  Let  us  suppose  that  the 
increase  in  the  speed  attained  by  the  hundred  bicycle  riders 
was  not  due  to  a  miracle,  but  to  the  peculiar  talents  of  three 
other  men.  A,  B,  and  C,  who  by  re-adjusting  a  bicycle  every 
morning  enable  it  to  run  more  easily  than  it  would  otherwise  ; 
arid  let  us  suppose,  moreover,  that  the  talents  of  these  three 
men  differed  so  much  in  degree  that  the  bicycles  adjusted  by 
A  would  run  fourteen  miles  an  hour  instead  of  six,  those 
adjusted  by  B  ten  miles,  and  those  adjusted  by  C  eight  miles. 
In  this  case  the  number  of  hours  for  which  any  of  the  hundred 
men  rode  would  afford  us  no  indication  of  the  number  of 
miles  accomplished  by  him  until  we  knew  whether  his  bicycle 
had  been  adjusted  by  A,  B,  or  C,  or  whether  it  had  been 
adjusted  by  any  one  of  these  men  at  all. 

And  now  let  us  consider  which  of  these  two  suppositions 
represents  most  accurately  the  causes  that  have,  as  an  actual 
fact,  brought  about  that  increase  in  wealth,  relatively  to  the 
average  labour  involved  in  its  production,  which  Mr.  Hyndman 
says  is  "the  main  feature  of  our  epoch."  Has  this  been 
accomplished  by  a  miracle  ?  Has  it  been  accomplished  by  a 
spontaneous  improvement  in  the  faculties  of  the  average 
labourers  ?  Or  has  it  been  accomplished  by  men  of  another 
class — by  men  whom   Mr.    Hyndman  describes  as  non-pro- 


THE  THEORETICAL  FOUNDATION  OF  SOCrALlSM.  343 

ducers,  because,  as  he  says,  "  they  work  not  at  all  with  their 
hands  "  ?  Every  sane  man  will  agree  that  to  ask  this  question 
is  to  answer  it.  Average  labour  has  become  more  productive 
because  men  "  who  work  not  at  all  with  their  hands"  have  lent 
powers  to  it,  by  applying  their  knowledge,  their  intellect,  and 
their  initiative  to  its  direction  ;  and  the  point  which  it  is  inter- 
esting at  this  moment  to  note  is  that  Mr.  Hyndman  admits  this 
also.  In  his  "  Social  and  Political  Manifesto,"  to  which  refer- 
ence has  been  made  already,  he  admits  that "  advances  in  human 
knowledge,"  and  the  application  of  these  to  industry  by  ''  the 
active  capitalist  class,"  have  been  the  principal  means  by  which 
labour  has  been  rendered  more  productive.  Now  by  whom  have 
these  advances  in  human  knowledge  been  made  ?  Have  they 
been  made  by  everybody  ?  Or  has  everybody  the  intellect,  the 
strength  of  will,  and  the  temperament  that  would  enable  a  man 
to  make  them  ?  On  the  contrary,  these  advances  in  knowledge 
have  been,  and  still  are,  due,  as  J.  S.  Mill  emphatically  admits,  to 
a  small  minority  of  " decidedly  exceptional  individuals";  and 
those  who  have  the  gifts  which  enable  and  prompt  them  to  apply 
knowledge  to  industrial  purposes  are  just  as  "decidedly  excep- 
tional "  as  the  speculative  discoverers.  In  fact,  the  labour  of  the 
many  has  become  more  and  more  productive  because,  and  in 
proportion  as,  it  has  passed  under  the  direction  of  the  few.  Let 
me  bring  this  home  to  Mr.  Hyndman  by  an  illustration  taken 
from  a  statement  of  one  of  his  own  allies.  Mr.  Keir  Hardie — 
that  luminary  of  the  Independent  Labour  Party,  with  which 
party  Mr.  Hyndman  says  his  own  is  ever  coming  into  closer 
alliance— Mr.  Keir  Hardie  some  time  since  asserted  that  the 
agricultural  land  of  England  could  be  easily  made  to  yield 
three  or  four  times  the  amount  of  produce  that  it  yields  now, 
relatively  to  the  number  of  cultivators.  Now,  supposing 
such  a  result  producible,  how  did  Mr.  Hardie  think  it  could 
be  produced  ?  He  evidently  did  not  mean  that  it  could  be 
produced  by  a  greater  quantity  of  labour,  for  what  he  and 
Mr.  Hyndman  both  promise  to  the  peasantry  is  not  a  twelve- 
hours  day  in  place  of  a  nine-hours  day,  but  a  four-hours  day  in 
«place  of  a  nine-hours  day.  The  result  then,  if  producible,  will 
be  due  to  some  new  scientific  discovery.  By  whom,  then,  will 
this  discovery  be  made  ?   Is  it  a  discovery  that  can  be  made  by 


344  COSMOPOLIS. 

anybody  ?  Or  is  it  a  discovery  that  cannot  be  made  till  some 
rare  genius  arises  to  make  it  ?  Unless  this  last  hypothesis  is  the 
true  one,  I  asked  at  the  time,  why  does  not  Mr.  Keir  Hardie 
make  it  himself  ?  He  clearly  does  not  make  it,  because  he  is 
not  capable  of  doing  so,  and  his  party  do  not  make  it,  because 
none  of  its  members  are  capable  of  doing  so.  Here,  then, 
we  have  an  amusing  admission  by  the  party  of  Independent 
Labour  that  it  is  absolutely  dependent  for  the  progress  to 
which  it  looks  forward,  not  on  labour,  but  on  intellect — not  on 
the  labour  of  which  every  man  is  equally  capable,  but  on  the 
intellect  that  is  given  to  a  few,  and  given  to  a  few  only.  And 
throughout  the  whole  domain  of  industry  the  same  thing  is  the 
case.  So  long  as  the  average  labourer  works  by  himself,  or  in 
simple  co-operation  with  others,  and  directs  the  operations  of  his 
hands  by  his  own  average  brain-power,  the  product  produced, 
relatively  to  the  labour  expended,  is  small.  In  proportion  as 
co-operation  becomes  more  and  more  complex,  and  labour 
more  and  more  divided,  the  product  produced,  relatively  to  the 
labour  expended,  increases  ;  but  it  increases  not  because  of 
the  simple  fact  that  co-operation  becomes  complex,  but  because 
of  the  fact  that  as  it  becomes  complex  the  brain-power  that 
directs  each  average  labourer  and  his  task  ceases  to  be  the 
ordinary  brain-power  possessed  by  the  man  himself,  and 
becomes  the  brain-power  of  some  exceptional  man  ;  and  the 
value  of  the  product  which  each  average  labourer  assists  in 
producing  ceases  to  be  measurable  by  the  hours  of  his  own 
labour,  and  is  measured  by  these  hours  of  labour  multiplied 
by  the  ability  of  the  master  who  directs  him. 

But  it  is  unnecessary  to  insist  upon  this  fact  further,  because 
it  is  certainly  not  denied  by  the  quicker-witted  of  our  con- 
temporary Socialists,  or  even  by  Mr.  Hyndman  himself.  The 
fault  both  of  Mr.  Hyndman  and  his  brother  Socialists  is  that, 
though  at  intervals  they  perceive  this  fact  and  acknowledge  it, 
they  all  alike  contrive  to  hide  from  themselves  its  true  signi- 
ficance. Mr.  Hyndman,  for  example,  would  admit,  when 
brought  to  the  point,  that  the  intellectual  efforts  of  men  like 
Sir  Henry  Bessemer,  Watt,  Stephenson,  Arkwright,  and  others 
have  been  important  agents  in  increasing  the  world's  wealth  ; 
and  that  if  production  is  to  go  on  increasing,  as  he  expects  it 


THE  THEORETICAL  FOUNDATION   OP   SOCIALISM.         345 

to  do,  the  intellectual  efforts  of  similar  men  will  be  required  in 
the  future.  He  would  admit  also  that  the  talents  of  a  Watt 
or  a  Bessemer  are  not  possessed  by  every  dock  labourer, 
or  even  by  every  skilled  artisan,  but  only  by  a  minority  of 
exceptionally  gifted  individuals.  He  would  accordingly 
have  to  admit  that  the  forces  which  produce  wealth  consist 
not  only  of  the  average  labour  which  is  contributed  by  the 
many,  and  of  which  all  are  capable,  but  also  of  the  intel- 
lectual efforts  which  are  contributed  by  the  few  only,  and  of 
which  only  a  few  are  capable.  In  other  words,  he  will  be 
compelled  to  admit  that  wealth  is  produced,  in  any  advancing 
civilisation,  not  by  one  set  of  men  who  exercise  similar 
faculties,  but  by  the  co-operation  of  two  sets  of  men  who 
exercise  different  faculties.  This  fact,  I  say,  is  deducible 
from  Mr.  Hyndman's  own  admissions  ;  and  neither  he  nor  his 
brotJier  Socialists,  when  confronted  with  it,  would  seek  to 
deny  it.  But  what  they  do  is  as  follows  :  instead  of  denying 
that  two  sets  of  faculties  are  involved  in  wealth  production, 
they  seek  to  obscure  the  fact  that  these  faculties  are  embodied 
in  two  different  sets  of  men  ;  and  in  all  their  formuke,  and 
apparently  also  in  their  thoughts,  they  attribute  to  mankind  in 
general  the  possession  of  all  those  talents  which  they  must,  at 
the  same  time,  know  are  possessed  by  a  few  only. 

This  extraordinary  confusion  of  thought  comes  to  the  surface 
very  often  in  Mr.  Hyndman's  present  article,  and  nowhere 
more  clearly  than  in  the  following  astounding  sentence  :  "  The 
powers  to  create  wealth,"  says  Mr.  Hyndman,  "  which  man- 
kind possess  as  a  whole,  are  heading  back  the  emancipation  of 
the  real  producers'*  By  the  ''real  producers"  Mr.  Hyndman 
means  the  manual  labourers,  whom  elsewhere  in  this  same 
article  he  calls  the  sole  "  actual  producers " ;  and  the  other 
powers  which  he  refers  to  in  addition  to  manual  labour  are 
intellectual  power,  organising  power,  the  power  of  making 
"  advances  in  knowledge,"  and  so  on,  to  which  he  admits  the 
growth  in  productivity  to  be  due.  Now,  let  us  first  pause  to 
notice  the  self-contradiction  involved  in  saying,  first,  that  there 
are  "powers  which  create  wealth,"  meaning  manual  labour 
and  intellectual  powers  also,  and  then  saying  that  manual 
labour  is  the  sole  power  which  "  really  produces  wealth."     Is 


346  COSMOPOLIS. 

''creating  wealth"'  a  ditiferent  process  from/' really  producing 
it "  ?     Mr.  'Hyndman  will   hardly  maintain  that.     Obviously, 
then,  if  such  and  such  intellectual  faculties  are  as  essential 
to    the  producing  of   a  given  amount   of  wealth  as  a  given 
amount   of    manual    labour   is,  those    who  exert    the    intel- 
lectual faculties  are  just   as   much    "real  producers"  as  the 
manual    labourers    are.       But    Mr.    Hyndman's    chief    and 
most  fundamental  error  here,  and  the  one  which  is  charac- 
teristic  of   the  Socialist  school  generally,  is  not  his  attempt 
to  maintain  that  only  part  of  the  powers  which  "  create  wealth  " 
really  produce  it ;  but  in  his  assertion  that  the  intellectual 
powers  and  the  muscular  powers  which  produce  it  are  both 
alike  possessed  by  mankind  as  a  whole.    The  muscular  powers 
are,  but  the  exceptional  intellectual  powers  are  not.    Let  us  take, 
for  example,  the  production  of  a  picture  by  Michael  Angelo.  In 
order  that  such  a  picture  may  be  painted,  a  carpenter  must 
make  a  frame  and  stretch  canvas  on  it,  and  another  man  must 
make  the  canvas  ;   but   even    Mr.  Hyndman    himself  w-ould 
hardly  say  that  the  powers  "which  created  such  a  picture" 
belonged  to  the  three  men  as  a  whole.     Nor,  if  some  new 
genius  were  to  publish  some  poem  to-morrow  greater  than 
anything  that  has  been  written  since  the  days  of  Shakespeare, 
would  Mr.  Hyndman  say  that  the  commercial  value  of  the 
volume  was  due  to  the  poet,  the  papermaker,  the  printer  and 
compositors  as  a  whole  ;  still  less  would  he  say  that  the  latter 
were  the  "  real  producers  "  of  the  poem.    And  yet  to  speak  of 
the  powers  which  create  wealth  "  as  being  possessed  by  man- 
kind as  a  whole  "  is  no  less  inaccurate  and  no  less  absurd, 
seeing  that  though   one    of  these    powers — namely,   labour 
power — is  possessed  by  mankind  as  a  whole,  the  other — namely^ 
that  whole  set  of  gifts  by  which  knowledge  is  advanced  and 
successfully   applied   to   industry — reaches  high  and  efficient 
development,  like  the  power  of  the  painter  and  the  poet,  in  the 
persons  of  a  few  only. 

Now,  in  the  volume  already  alluded  to  which  I  am  just  about 
to  publish,  Mr.  Hyndman  will  find,  if  he  has  the  curiosity  to 
look  into  it,  a  careful  analysis  of  the  nature  of  the  actual 
process  by  which  the  industrial  faculties  of  the  few  play  their 
part  in  wealth-production.     I  have  there  shown  that  the  few 


THE  THEORETICAL   FOUNDATION   OF  SOCIALISM.  347 

play  their  part  in  wealth-production — and  every  increase  in 
human  productivity  is  due  to  this  part  which  they  play — by 
constantly  directing  and  commanding  the  industrial  action  of 
the  many.  This  does  not  imply  any  interference  with  the 
private  lives  of  the  many ;  the  interference  is  confined  to 
their  industrial  or  technical  movements  only.  Thus  the 
value  of  a  book  is  due  to  the  set  of  orders  which  the  author, 
through  his  manuscript,  gives  to  the  compositors  as  compositors, 
though  over  their  private  lives  he  has  no  control  whatever. 
Such  being  the  case,  then,  all  modern  wealth-production, 
and  all  progressive  wealth-production,  is  due  to  the  exertions 
of  two  distinct  sets  of  men — an  enormous  majority  of  men, 
of  average  power,  who  work  with  their  hands,  and  a  minority 
of  men,  endowed  with  exceptional  powers,  "  who  work  not  at 
all  with  their  hands,"  but  direct  those  who  do  ;  and  this  minority 
forms  the  numeral  by  which  the  labour  of  the  majority  or  the 
unit  of  productivity  is  multiplied. 

These    facts    are    entirely    independent    of     Socialism    or 
Individualism    or.   any    other    form    of    society.     They    are 
facts   which    arise    from   the   natural   inequalities  of  human 
brain-power,    will,    and    temperament ;    and    none    of    the 
reforms,    or    the    ultimately   complete  revolution,   to   which 
Mr.    Hyndman    looks     forward   would    have    any  tendency 
to  alter  them.    Were  ?,  social  regime  such  as  Mr.  Hyndman 
contemplates    really  established,    and    really  successful,   the 
sole    essential    difference    between    it    and    the    regime    of 
capitalism    would    not    consist    in    the    elimination    of    the 
exceptional  few,  or  in  the  many  ceasing  to  be  directed  by  those 
most  capable  of  directing  them.     It  would  consist  solely  in 
the  fact  that  these  exceptional  men  would  receive  no  excep- 
tional economic  reward.    They  would,  each  of  them,  in  point 
of  productivity,  do  the  work  of  a  thousand  manual  labourers, 
but  they  would  receive  only  the  pay  of  one.    The  remaining 
value  of  their  work  would  be  distributed  amongst  those  who 
had  not  produced  it.    This  is  the  one  essential  peculiarity  of 
Socialism  when  put  before  us  as  a  practical  system — that  it 
proposes  to  secure  the  services  of  exceptional  men  without 
giving  them  any  proportionate  reward.     It  has  been  estimated, 
for  example,  that  the  addition  already  made  to  the  wealth  of  the 


34^  COSMOPOLIS. 

United  Kingdom  by  Sir  Henry  Bessemer  would  supply  his 
family  with  ^50,000  a  year  for  a  larger  number  of  centuries 
than  need  be  here  insisted  on,  and  yet  leave  the  country  a  far 
greater  gainer  than  his  family.  Now,  any  system  other  than 
that  of  Socialism  would  allow  a  man  who  added  to  the  wealth 
of  his  country  in  this  way  to  keep  a  half,  or,  at  all  events,  a 
quarter  of  what  he  made.  But  Socialism  alone,  of  all  systems, 
'vould  allow  nothing  of  this  kind  to  take  place.  It  would  allow 
no  one,  even  if  he  had  the  talents  of  twenty  Sir  Henry 
Bessemers  rolled  into  one,  to  enjoy  an  income  of  ;f  50,000  a 
year,  of  /25,ooo,  or  even  of  ;^'5,ooo.  It  hopes  to  retain  the 
services  of  such  men,  in  order  that  "advances  in  knowledge" 
may  be  made  ;  but  it  will  deprive  them  of  any  share  of  wealth 
proportinate  to  that  created  by  them.  This  is  the  essential 
difference  between  Socialism  and  the  existing  system.  It  is 
the  sole  essential  change  which  the  establishment  of  Socialism 
would  introduce.  Socialism,  then,  is  essentially  a  system  of 
wealth-production  in  which  those  who  contribute  most  to  the 
total  product  gain  no  more  advantage  than  those  who  con- 
tribute least. 

And  now,  having  arrived  at  this  definition  of  Socialism 
(which  is  strictly  that  w^hich  Mr.  Hyndman,  if  cross- 
examined,  would  be  obliged  to  give  himself),  we  are  able  to 
consider  whether  Mr.  Hyndman  is  right  in  saying  that 
Socialism  is  increasing  so  steadily,  even  if  not  very  fast,  in 
England,  that  there  is  good  reason  to  anticipate  its  ultimate 
triumph.  Our  answer  to  Mr.  Hyndman's  arguments  will  be 
very  brief.  It  will  be  that  Socialism  is  not  growing  at  all  ; 
and  that  throughout  his  whole  statements  that  it  is  growing 
he  is  the  victim  of  one  of  those  intellectual  self-confusions 
which  are  so  eminently  characteristic  of  himself  and  his 
whole  party.  What  Mr.  Hyndman  mistakes  for  the  growth  of 
Socialism  is  the  growth  of  a  belief  that  Socialism  is  a  possible 
industrial  system,  and  a  desirable  industrial  system ;  but 
this  is  a  very  different  thing  from  the  growth  of  that  system 
itself.  The  growth  of  the  belief  that  Socialism  is  possible  is 
as  different  from  the  growth  of  Socialism -as  would  be  the 
growth  of  the  belief  that  the  construction  of  a  perpetual 
motion  was  possible  from  the  invention  and  introduction  of 


THK  THEOKICTICAL    FOUNDATION   OF  SOCIALISM.  349 

machines  which  generated  their  own  motive  power.  It  is  true 
that  the  belief  that  SociaHsm  is  possible  might  instigate  a  number 
of  men  to  attempt  to  make  it  actual,  and  that  such  men  might 
partially  paralyse  the  existing  social  system.  This  obvious  pos- 
sibility constitutes  a  real  social  danger  ;  but  the  fact  that  a 
number  of  men  could  interfere  with  one  system  of  production 
is  no  more  a  proof  that  they  could  substitute  an  alternative 
and  superior  system  than  the  fact  that  a  child  could  break  an 
ordinary  watch  is  a  proof  that  the  child  could  invent  and 
construct  a  chronometer.  Now,  Mr.  Hyndman  may  be  right 
or  wrong  in  his  opinion  that  the  belief  in  the  practicability  of 
Socialism  and  that  a  desire  for  its  realisation  are  growing  ;  and 
he  may  be  right  or  wrong  in  thinking  that  those  amongst 
whom  this  belief  and  this  desire  have  taken  root  are  becoming 
strong  enough  to  interfere  seriously  with  the  workings  of  the 
existing  system.  That  is  a  question  on  which  I  do  not  now 
propose  to  touch.  The  sole  point  I  am  discussing  now  is, 
not  whether  Socialists  could  temporarily  injure  the  existing 
system,  but  whether  they  could  permanently  establish  their 
own  system  in  its  place.  At  present  they  have  never  done  so 
anywhere.  They  have  tried  over  and  over  again  to  do  so, 
and  to  show  that  Socialism  is  practically  constructing,  as 
it  were,  working  models  of  it  in  small  communities.  But  all 
these  attempts  have  failed  ;  and,  indeed,  Mr.  Hyndman,  with 
a  somewhat  injudicious  candour,  admits  "  that  they  meet  with 
little  but  ridicule  from  modern  Socialists." 

Seeing,  then,  that  Socialism,  as  a  working  and  workable 
system,  is  not  only  not  growing,  and  has  not  even  begun  to 
sprout,  Mr.  Hyndman's  arguments  based  "on  the  growth  of 
Socialism"  tell  us  nothing  more  than  that  a  large  number 
of  people,  drawn  mostly  from  classes  in  whose  wisdom 
he  does  not  himself  profess  "  to  have  any  profound  faith," 
have  been  induced  to  believe  that  a  social  system  w^ould  be 
desirable  which  gives  them  three  times  their  present  incomes 
for  a  third  of  their  present  work.  That  this  opinion  should 
have  made  considerable  way  is  not  perhaps  wonderful ;  but 
the  spread  of  it  does  nothing  to  show  us  that  the  desired 
system  is  practicable.     In  order  to  form  any  opinion  as  to  its 

practicability,  we  must  consider  what  it  is,  not  what  number 
VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXVI.  :$ 


350  cosMOPOiJs. 

of  people  can  be  persuaded  to  think  about  it.  Now,  we  have 
seen  that  its  essential  peculiarity  is  that  it  requires  that  men 
of  the  greatest  productive  talents,  who  now  receive  a  pro- 
portionate reward  for  their  exercise,  shall  still  continue  to 
exercise  them,  but  shall  receive  no  proportionate  reward  at 
all.  The  question,  therefore,  of  the  practicability  of  Socialism 
resolves  itself  into  this.  Is  it  likely  that  those  members  of 
the  community  who  are  naturally  most  intellectual,  most 
powerful,  most  energetic,  will  exert  their  exceptional 
faculties  under  a  rigime  the  essential  peculiarity  of  which  is 
that  it  is  organised  with  the  special  purpose  of  preventing 
them  from  receiving  any  recompense  greater  than  they 
would  have  received  if  they  had  never  possessed  or  exercised 
these  exceptional  faculties  at  all  ?  This  question  can 
perhaps  best  be  answered  by  referring  to  certain  admis- 
sions made  by  Mr.  Hyndman  himself.  In  his  present  article 
he  admits  that  the  prevalent  motive  to  production,  through- 
out all  classes,  is  what  he  calls  "greed."  Now,  the  word 
''  greed,"  when  divested  of  the  ideas  of  moral  blame 
which  are  accidentally  associated  with  it,  means  merely 
the  desire  on  the  part  of  each  producer  to  get  the  whole  value 
of  what  he  has  produced,  or  perhaps  more.  Accordingly  Mr. 
Hyndman,  in  his  ''  Social  and  Political  Manifesto,"  assumed 
that  the  surest  way  to  arouse  the  indignation  of  the  labourers 
was  to  inform  them  that  they  got  only  one  third  or  one  fourth  of 
the  values  they  created.  He  assumed  that  when  once  they  knew 
that  such  was  the  condition  of  things  they  would  no  longer 
submit  to  it  ;  and  yet  the  possibility  of  the  scheme  of  Socialism 
depends  on  the  willingness  of  the  few  to  submit  themselves  to 
an  injustice  infinitely  greater  than  that  which  he  maintains  has 
been  inflicted  on  the  many  ;  for  whilst  even  he  does  not 
pretend  that  the  many  receive  less  than  twenty-five  parts  out 
of  every  hundred  that  they  produce,  he  expects  that  the  few 
will  be  content  with  receiving  only  one  part  out  of  every 
thousand.  If  Mr.  Hyndman  and  his  friends  can  produce  such 
a  change  as  this  in  human  nature,  they  will  doubtless  be  able 
to  introduce  Socialism,  and  a  great  many  other  things  besides. 
In  that  case  they  will  have  done  more  than  all  the  other  great 
men  who  have  founded  empires,  religions,  and  civilisations  from 


THE  THKORETICAL   FOUNDATION    OF  SOCIAUSM.  33 1 

le  dawn  of  history  till  to-day.  From  Mr.  Hyndman's  point 
f  view,  however,  one  might  think  it  was  a  depressing  fact 
lat  this  change,  as  he  himself  admits,  is  not  even  yet  begun, 
ut  that  "  greed,"  or  the  desire  of  the  producer  to  get  what  he 
roduces,  is  still  as  dominant  amongst  all  classes  to-day  as  it 
as  when  the  herdsmen  of  Lot  strove  with  the  herdsmen  of 
braham,  or  the  first  Phoenician  prow  cut  the  waves  of  the 
[editerranean. 

Mr.  Hyndman  has,  however,  another  ground  for  Uie  hope 
lat  is  in  him,  which  it  still  remains  for  us  to  consider.  It  is 
ased  on  that  theory  of  Social  Evolution  which  he  has  derived 
om  his  master,  Karl  Marx,  and  which,  described  briefly, 
ases  itself  on  the  indubitable  fact  that  industrial  systems  have 
ndergone  great  changes  in  the  past,  and  may  therefore  be 
xpected  to  undergo  changes  as  great  in  the  future.  The  three 
lost  marked  stages  in  the  sequence  of  change  of  which  this 
beory  takes  account  are,  as  has  been  said  already,  slavery, 
sudalism,  and  capitalism  ;  and  the  practical  conclusion  drawn 
rom  them  is  that  as  feudalism  arose  out  of  slavery,  and 
apitalism  arose  out  of  feudalism,  so  will  Socialism  arise  out  of 
apitalism.  This  argument  is  merely  another  example  of  those 
elf-confusions  by  which  the  Socialists  are  distinguished  as 
sasoners.  It  is  an  argument  which  depends  for  its  whole 
pparent  point  on  the  defective  manner  in  which  these 
arious  systems — Socialism  included — have  been  analysed. 
'or,  though  slavery,  feudalism,  and  capitalism  differ  from 
ne  another  in  many  more  important  ways,  they  happen 
ot  to  differ  at  all  in  respect  of  that  one  particular  point  in 
espect  of  which  Socialism  will  have  to  differ  from  all 
bree  of  them.  That  is  to  say,  in  whatever  way  they  differ 
rom  one  another,  they  all  agree  with  one  another  in  being 
ystems  under  which  the  few,  the  strongest,  the  most  intel- 
^tual,  the  most  energetic,  not  only  controlled  the  actions  of 
hie  average  many,  but  received  for  their  exceptional  action  a 
orrespondingly  exceptional  recompense.  The  few  who  occu- 
pied this  commanding  position  differed,  at  different  times,  in 
lie  nature  of  the  powers  which  gave  them  the  command, 
lometimes  it  was  the  great  fighters  who  were  paramount,  some- 
imes  the  great  legislators,  sometimes  the  great  industrialists. 


352  COSMOPOLIS, 

But  into  whatever  mould  human  society  has  been  cast, 
with  whatever  circumstances  it  has  been  surrounded,  and 
whatever  kind  of  talent  or  strength  has  been  most  essential 
to  it  at  given  periods,  the  few  who  have  possessed  this  kind 
of  talent  and  strength  to  the  highest  degree  have  been 
invariably  at  the  top,  and  with  them  their  families.  We  may 
deplore  this  fact  or  no,  but  the  fact  still  remains ;  and  all  I 
am  concerned  to  point  out  is  that  Mr.  Hyndman's  argument 
from  evolution  can  hardly  give  him  much  support,  since,  when 
reduced  to  its  true  meaning,  it  merely  amounts  to  this  :  that 
because  many  social  changes  have  taken  place  already,  but  one 
particular  change  has  never  taken  place  yet,  this  particular 
change  which  has  refused  to  take  place  in  the  past  is  perfectly 
certain  to  take  place  in  the  future. 

The  historical  evolution  of  society,  however,  and  the  many 
and  great  social  changes  that  have  taken  place,  do  indeed 
convey  to  us  a  very  important  moral,  and  so  far  Karl  Marx 
deserves  the  acknowledgments  of  sociologists  for  having  called 
attention  so  pointedly  to  this  new  aspect  of  the  question. 
But  the  moral  which  the  changes  convey  to  us  is  very  different 
from  that  which  he  and  Mr.  Hyndman  draw  from  them.  They 
draw  from  them  the  moral  that  because  social  arrangements 
have  been  greatly  changed,  therefore  they  can  be  funda- 
mentally changed.  The  true  moral  is  that,  although  they 
may  be  changed  greatly,  they  can  never  be  changed  funda- 
mentally ;  and  from  this  there  follows  another  as  its  yet  more 
important  corollary-  that  although  social  arrangements  can 
never  be  changed  fundamentally,  they  can,  nevertheless,  be 
progressively  and  indefinitely  improved,  and  that  true  reforms 
can  be  accomplished  only  by  those  who  abandon  altogether 
every  dream  of  fundamental  revolution.  Many  reforms  which 
Mr.  Hyndman  recommends,  and  many  wishes  which  Mr, 
Hyndman  entertains,  may  meet  with  the  approval  and  sym- 
pathy of  the  most  determined  Conservatives ;  but  taking  the 
changes  as  a  whole  which  Mr.  Hyndman  and  other  Socialists 
advocate,  we  may  say  that  they  leave  the  possible  and  ap- 
proach the  absolutely  impossible,  in  precise  proportion  as 
the  Socialists  set  value  upon  them, 

W,  H.  Mallock, 


THE  MAKER  OF  LENSES.* 


As  the  lean,  dark,  somewhat  stooping  passenger,  noticeable 
among  the  blonde  Hollanders  by  his  noble  Spanish  face  with 
its  black  eyebrows  and  long  curly  locks,  stepped  off  the 
trekschuyt  on  to  the  canal  bank  at  'sGravenhage,  his  abstracted 
gaze  did  not  at  first  take  in  the  scowling  visages  of  the  idlers, 
sunning  themselves  as  the  towboat  came  in.  He  was  not  a 
close  observer  of  externals,  and,  though  he  had  greatly  enjoyed 
the  journey  home  from  Utrecht  along  the  quaint  waterway 
between  green  walls  of  trees  and  hedges,  with  occasional 
glimpses  of  flat  landscapes  and  windmills  through  rifts,  his 
sense  of  the  peace  of  Nature  was  wafted  from  the  mass,  from 
a  pervasive  background  of  greenness  and  flowing  water  ;  he 
was  not  keenly  aware  of  specific  trees,  of  linden,  or  elm,  or 
willow,  still  less  of  the  aquatic  plants  and  flowers  that  carpeted 
richly  the  surface  of  the  canal. 

Even  when,  pursuing  broodingly  his  homeward  path  through 
the  handsome  streets  of  The  Hague,  he  became  at  last  con- 
scious of  a  certain  ill-will  in  the  faces  he  met,  he  did  not  at 
first  connect  it  with  himself,  but  with  the  general  bellicose 
excitement  of  the  populace.  Although  the  young  Prince  of 
Orange  had  rewarded  their  insurrectionary  election  of  him  to 
the  Stadtholdership  by  redeeming  them  from  the  despair  to 
which  the  French  invasion  and  the  English  fleet  had  reduced 
them,  although  since  his  famous  *'  1  w-ill  die  in  the  last  ditch," 
Holland  no  longer  strove  to  commit  suicide  by  opening  its 
own  sluices,  yet  the  unloosed  floods  of  popular  passion  were 
only  partially  abated.  A  stone  that  grazed  his  cheek  and 
plumped  against  the  little  handbag  that  held  his  all  of  luggage 
startled  him  to  semi-comprehension. 

•  Copyright,  1898,  by  I.  Zangwill,  in  the  United  States  of  America. 


354  COSMOPOLIS. 

They  were  for  him,  then,  these  sullen  glances.  Cries  of 
"  Traitor  !  "  ''  Godless  gallowsbird  !  "  ''  Down  with  the 
damned  renegade  ! "  dispelled  what  doubt  remained.  A  shade 
of  melancholy  deepened  the  expression  of  the  sweet,  thought- 
ful mouth  ;  then,  as  by  volition,  the  habitual  look  of  pensive 
cheerfulness  came  back,  and  he  walked  on,  unruffled. 

So  it  had  leaked  out,  even  in  his  own  town,  where  an 
anonymous  prophet  should  be  without  dishonour,  that  he  was 
the  author  of  the  infamous  "  Tractatus  Theologico-Politicus," 
the  ''  traitor  to  State  and  Church  "  of  refuting  pamphleteers,  the 
bogey  of  popular  theology.  In  vain,  then,  had  his  treatise 
been  issued  with  "  Hamburg  "  on  the  title-page.  In  vain  had 
he  tried  to  combine  personal  peace  with  impersonal  thought, 
to  confine  his  body  to  a  garret  and  to  diffuse  his  soul  through 
the  world.  The  forger  of  such  a  thunderbolt  could  not 
remain  hid  from  the  eyes  of  Europe.  Perhaps  the  illustrious 
foreigners  and  the  beautiful  blue-stockings  who  climbed  his 
stairs,  to  the  detriment  of  his  day's  work  in  grinding  lenses, 
had  set  The  Hague  scenting  sulphur.  More  probably  the  hot- 
headed young  disciples  to  whom  he  had  given  oral  or 
epistolary  teaching  had  enthusiastically  betrayed  him  into 
fame  or  infamy.  It  had  always  been  thus,  he  mused,  even  in 
those  early  half-forgotten  days  when  he  was  emancipating 
himself  from  the  Ghetto,  and  half-shocked  admirers  no  less 
than  heresy  hunters  bore  to  the  ears  of  the  Beth-din  his 
dreadful  rejection  of  miracle  and  ceremony.  Poor  Saul 
Morteira  !  How  his  ancient  master  must  have  been  pained  to 
pronounce  the  Great  Ban,  though  nothing  should  have 
surprised  him  in  a  pupil  so  daring  of  question,  even  at  fifteen. 
And  now  that  he  had  shaken  off  the  Ghetto,  or  rather  been 
shaken  off  by  it,  he  had  scandalised  no  less  shockingly  that 
Christendom  to  which  the  Ghetto  had  imagined  him  aposta- 
tising ;  he  had  fearlessly  contradicted  every  system  of  the 
century,  the  ruling  Cartesian  philosophy  no  less  than  the  creed 
of  the  Church,  and  his  plea  for  freedom  of  thought  had 
illustrated  it  to  the  full.  True,  the  Low  Countries,  when  freed 
from  the  Spanish  rack,  had  nobly  declared  for  religious 
freedom,  but  at  a  scientific  treatment  of  the  Bible  as  sacred 
liteiature  even  Dutch  toleration  must  draw  the  line,  unbe- 


THE 'MAKER  OF  LENSES.  355 

guiled  by  the  appeal  to  the  State  to  found  itself  on  true 
religion  and  ignore  the  glossing  theologians.  "  What  evil 
can  be  imagined  greater  for  a  State  than  that  honourable 
men,  because  they  have  thoughts  of  their  own  and  cannot 
act  a  lie,  are  sent  as  culprits  into  exile  or  led  to  the 
scaffold  ? "  Already  the  States-General  had  attached  the 
work  containing  this  question,  and  forbidden  its  circu- 
lation :  now,  apparently,  persecution  was  to  reach  him  in 
person,  Christendom  supplementing  what  he  had  long  since 
suffered  from  the  Jewry.  He  thought  of  the  fanatical  Jew 
\\hose  attempt  to  stab  him  had  driven  him  to  live  on  the 
outskirts  of  Amsterdam,  even  before  the  Jews  had  persuaded 
the  civil  magistrates  to  banish  him  from  their  "  new  Jerusalem," 
and  in  a  flash  of  bitterness  the  picturesque  Portuguese  impre- 
cations of  the  Rabbinic  tribunal  seemed  to  him  to  be  bearing 
fruit.  "According  to  the  decision  of  the  angels  and  the  judg- 
ment of  the  saints,  with  the  sanction  of  the  holy  God  and  the 
whole  congregation,  we  excommunicate,  expel,  curse  and 
execrate  Baruch  de  Espinoza  before  the  holy  books.  .  .  . 
Cursed  be  he  by  day,  and  cursed  be  he  by  night,  cursed  be  he 
when  he  lieth  down,  and  cursed  be  he  when  he  riseth  up,  cursed 
be  he  when  he  goeth  out,  and  cursed  be  he  when  he  cometh 
in.  May  God  never  forgive  him  !  His  anger  and  His  passion 
shall  be  kindled  against  this  man,  on  whom  rest  all  the  curses 
and  execrations  which  are  written  in  the  Holy  Scriptures.  .  .  ." 
Had  the  words  been  lurking  at  the  back  of  his  mind,  when  he 
was  writing  the  "  Tractatus,"  he  asked  himself,  troubled  to  find 
them  still  in  his  memory.  Had  resentment  coloured  the  Jewish 
sections  ?  Had  his  hot  Spanish  blood  kept  the  memory  of  the 
dagger  that  had  tried  to  spill  it,  had  suffering  biassed  the 
impersonality  of  his  intellect  ?  "This  compels  me  to  nothing 
which  I  should  not  otherwise  have  done,"  he  had  said  to  his 
Mennonite  friend,  when  the  sentence  reached  him  in  the 
Oudekirk  Road.  But  was  it  so  ?  If  he  had  not  been  cut  off 
from  his  father  and  his  brothers  and  sisters,  and  the  friends  of 
childhood,  would  he  have  treated  the  beauties  of  his  ancestral 
faith  with  so  grudging  a  sympathy  ?  The  doubt  disturbed 
him,  revealing  once  more  how  difficult  was  self-mastery, 
absolute  surrender  to  absolute  Truth.     Never  had  he  wavered 


356  COSMOPOLIS. 

under  persecution  like  Uriel  Acosta — at  whose  grave  in  unholy 
ground  he  had  stood  when  a  boy  of  eight — but  had  it  not 
wrought  insidiously  upon  his  spirit  ? 

**  Alas  ! "  thought  he,  "  the  heaviest  burden  that  men  can  lay 
upon  us,  is  not  that  they  persecute  us  with  their  hatred  and 
scorn,  but  that  they  thus  plant  hatred  and  scorn  in  our  souls, 
That  is  what  does  not  let  us  breathe  freely  or  sec  clearly." 
Retrospect  softened  the  odiousness  of  his  Jewish  persecutors  ; 
they  were  but  children  of  a  persecuting  age,  and  it  was  indeed 
hard  for  a  community  of  refugees  from  Spain  and  Portugal  to 
have  that  faith  doubted  for  which  they  or  their  fathers  had 
given  up  wealth  and  country.  Even  at  the  hour  of  his  Ban 
the  pyres  of  the  Inquisition  were  flaming  with  Jewish  martyrs, 
and  his  fellow-scholars  were  writing  Latin  verses  to  their 
sacred  memories.  And  should  the  religion  which  exacted  and 
stimulated  such  sacrifices  be  set  aside  by  one  providentially 
free  to  profess  it  ?  How  should  they  understand  that  a 
martyr's  death  proved  faith,  not  truth  ?  Well,  well,  if  he  had 
not  sufficiently  repaid  his  brethren's  hatred  with  love,  it  was  no 
good  being  sorry,  for  sorrow  was  an  evil,  a  passing  to  lesser 
perfection,  diminished  vitality.  Let  him  rather  rejoice  that  the 
real  work  of  his  life — his  '*  Ethica"  which  he  was  working  out 
on  pure  geometrical  principles — would  have  no  taint  of  per- 
sonality, would  be  without  his  name,  and  would  not  even  be 
published  till  death  had  removed  the  last  possibility  of  personal 
interest  in  its  fortunes.  *'  Kor,"  as  he  was  teaching  in  the  book 
itself,  **  those  who  desire  to  aid  others  by  counsel  or  deed  to 
the  common  enjoyment  of  the  chief  good  shall  in  no  wise 
endeavour  themselves  that  a  doctrine  be  called  after  them." 

Another  stone  and  a  hoot  of  derision  from  a  gang  of  roughs 
reminded  him  that  death  might  not  wait  for  the  finishing  of 
his  work.  "  Strange,"  he  reflected,  *'  that  they  who  cannot 
read  should  so  run  to  damn."  And  then  his  thoughts  recurred 
to  that  horrible  day,  not  a  year  ago,  when  the  brutal  mob  had 
torn  to  pieces  the  noblest  men  in  the  realm — his  friends,  the 
brothers  De  Witt.  He  could  scarcely  retain  his  tears  even 
now  at  the  memory  of  the  martyred  patriots,  whose  ignomi- 
niously  gibbeted  bodies  the  police  had  only  dared  remove  in 
the   secrecy  of  the  small  hours.      It    was  hard    even  for  the 


THE   MAKER   OF   LENSES.  357 

philosopher  to  remember  that  the  brutes  did  but  express  the 
essence  of  their  being,  even  as  he  expressed  his.  Nevertheless, 
Reason  did  not  demand  that  theirs  should  destroy  his  ;  the 
reverse  sooner,  had  he  the  power.  So,  turning  the  corner  of 
the  street,  he  slipped  into  his  favourite  book-shop  in  the 
Spuistraat,  and  sought  at  once  safety  and  delectation  among 
the  old  folios  and  the  new  Latin  publications,  and  the  beautiful 
productions  of  the  Elzevirs  of  Amsterdam. 

"  Hast  thou  Stoupe's  '  Religion  des  HoUandois '  ? "  he  asked, 
with  a  sudden  thought. 

"  Inquire  elsewhere,"  snapped  the  bookseller  surlily. 

"  Et  tu,  Brute !"  said  Spinoza  smiling.  "  Dost  thou  also  join 
the  hue  and  cry  ?  Methinks  heresy  should  nourish  thy  trade. 
A  wilderness  of  counterblasts,  treatises,  tractlets,  pasquinades 
— the  more  the  merrier,  eh  ?  " 

The  bookseller  stared.  "Thou  to  come  in  and  ask  for 
Stoupe's  book  ?    Tis—tis— brazen  !  " 

Spinoza  was  perplexed.  "  Brazen  ?  Is  it  because  he  talks  of 
me  in  it  ?  " 

"  Heer  Spinoza  1 "  said  the  bookseller  solemnly,  *'  thy 
Cartesian  commentary  has  brought  me  a  many  pence,  and 
if  thou  thyself  hast  browsed  more  than  bought,  thou  wast 
welcome  to  take  whatever  thou  couldst  carry  away  in  that  long 
head  of  thine.  But  to  serve  thee  now  is  more  than  I  dare,  with 
the  populace  so  wrought  up  against  thee.  What  !  Didst  thou 
think  thy  doings  in  Utrecht  would  not  penetrate  hither  ?  " 

"  My  doings  in  Utrecht ! " 

"Ay,  in  the  enemy's  headquarters — betraying  us  to  the 
periwigs  ! " 

Spinoza  was  taken  aback.  This  was  even  more  serious  than 
he  had  thought.  It  was  for  supposed  leaning  to  the  French 
that  the  De  Witts  had  been  massacred.  Political  odium  was 
even  more  sinister  than  theological.  Perhaps  he  had  been 
unwise  to  accept  in  war-time  the  Prince  of  Conde's  flattering 
invitation  to  talk  philosophy.  To  get  to  the  French  camp 
with  the  Marshal's  safe-conduct  had  been  easy  enough  ;  to  get 
back  to  his  own  headquarters  bade  fair  to  be  another  matter. 
But  then,  why  had  the  Dutch  authorities  permitted  him  to  go  ? 
Surely  such  unique  confidence  was  testimonial  enough. 


358  COSMOPOLIS. 

''  Oh,  but  this  is  absurd  !  "  he  said.  "  Every  burgher  in  Den 
Haag  knows  that  I  am  a  good  RcpubHcan,  and  have  never  had 
any  aim  but  the  honour  and  welfare  of  the  State.  Besides,  I 
did  not  even  see  Cond6.  He  had  been  called  away,  and  I 
would  not  wait  his  return." 

"Ay,  but  thou  didst  see  Luxemburg — thou  wast  entertained 
by  Colonel  Stoupe,  of  the  Swiss  regiment." 

'*  True,  but  he  is  theologian  as  well  as  thinker." 

''  He  did  not  offer  to  bribe  thee  ?  " 

*'  Ay,  he  did,"  said  Spinoza  smiling.  "  He  oflfered  me  a 
pension " 

The  bookseller  plugged  his  ears.  "  Sh  !  I  will  not  know. 
rU  have  no  hand  in  thy  murder." 

"  Nay,  but  it  will  interest  thee  as  a  bookseller.  The  pension 
was  to  be  given  me  by  his  royal  master  if  1  would  dedicate  a 
book  to  his  august  Majesty." 

"  And  thou  refusedst  ?  " 

"  Naturally.     Louis  Quatorze  has  flatterers  enough." 

The  bookseller  seized  his  hands  and  wrung  them,  with  tears. 
"  I  told  them  so,  I  told  them  so.  What  if  they  did  see  these 
French  gentry  visiting  thee  ?  Political  emissaries,  forsooth  ! 
As  well  fear  for  the  virtue  of  the  ladies  of  quality  who  toil  up 
his  stairs,  quoth  I.  They  do  but  seek  further  explications  of 
their  Descartes.  Ah,  PVance  may  have  begotten  a  philosopher, 
but  it  requires  Holland  to  shelter  him,  a  Dutchman  to  under- 
stand him.  That  musked  gallant  a  spy  !  Why,  that  was 
D'H6nault,  the  poet.  How  do  I  know  ?  Well,  when  a  man 
inquires  for  D'H6nault's  poems,  and  is  half  pleased  because  I 
have  the  book,  and  half  annoyed  because  he  must  needs  buy 

it !    An  epicurean  rogue  by  his  lip,  a  true  son  of  the  Muses. 

And  suppose  there  is  a  letter  from  England,  with  the  seal  of 
the  Royal  Society  ! " 

*'  Is  there  a  letter  from  England  ?  " 

"  Thou  hast  not  been  to  thy  lodging  ?  That  Royal  Society, 
quoth  I,  is  a  learned  body,  despite  its  name,  and  hath  naught 
to  do  with  King  Charles  and  the  company  he  keeps.  'Tis  they 
who  egg  him  on  to  fight  us,  the  hussies  ! " 

Spinoza  smiled  :  "  It  must  be  from  my  good  friend  Olden- 
burg, the  secretary." 


tt  * 

here 


THE   MAKER   OF   LENSES.  359 

Tis  what*  1  told  them.     He  was  in  my  shop  when  he  was 


f# 


"  Asking  for  his  book  ?  " 

"  Nay,  for  thine."  And  the  bookseller's  smile  answered 
Spinoza's.  "  He  bade  me  despatch  copies  of  the  '  Principia 
Philosophiae  Cartesianae '  to  sundry  persons  of  distinction.  I 
would  to  Heaven  thou  wouldst  write  a  new  book." 

"  Heaven  may  not  share  thy  view,"  murmured  Spinoza, 
who  was  just  turning  over  the  pages  of  an  attack  on  his  "new 
book,"  and  reading  of  himself  as  "a  man  of  bold  countenance, 
fanatical,  and  estranged  from  all  religion." 

"  A  good  book  thou  hast  there,"  said  the  bookseller.  "  By 
Musaeus,  the  Jena  Professor.  The  '  Tractatus  Theologico- 
Politicus  ad  Veritatis  Lancem  Examinatus' — weighed  in 
Truth's  balance,  indeed.  A  title  that  draws.  They  say  'tis 
the  best  of  all  the  refutations  of  the  pernicious  and  poisonous 
Tractate." 

"  Of  which  I  see  sundry  copies  here,  masked  in  false  titles." 

'•  Sh  1  Forbidden  fruit  is  always  in  demand.  But  so  long 
as  I  supply  the  antidote  too " 

"  Needs  fruit  an  antidote  ?  " 

*'  Poisoned  apples  of  knowledge  offered  by  the  serpent." 

"A  serpent  indeed,"  said  Spinoza,  reading  the  Antidote  aloud. 
"'  He  has  left  no  mental  faculty,  no  cunning,  no  art  untried, 
in  order  to  conceal  his  fabrication  beneath  a  brilliant  veil,  so 
that  we  may  with  good  reason  doubt  whether  among  the  great 
number  of  those  whom  the  devil  himself  has  hired  for  the 
destruction  of  all  human  and  divine  right,  there  is  one  to  be 
found  who  has  been  more  zealous  in  the  work  of  corruption 
than  this  traitor  who  was  born  to  the  great  injury  of  the  Church 
and  to  the  harm  of  the  State  ! '  How  he  bruises  the  serpent's 
head,  this  theology-professor,"  he  cried,  "  how  he  lays  him  dead 
on  his  balance  of  Truth  ! "  To  himself  he  thought :  "  How 
the  most  ignorant  are  usually  the  most  impudent  and  the  most 
ready  to  rush  into  print ! "  He  had  a  faint  prevision  of  how 
his  name — should  it  really  leak  out,  despite  all  his  precautions 
— ^would  come  to  stand  for  atheism  and  immorality,  a  catch- 
word of  ill-omen  for  a  century  or  two,  but  he  smiled  on,  relying 
upon  the  inherent  reasonableness  and  rightness  of  the  universe. 


360  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Wilt  take  the  book  ?  "  said  the  bookseller.      * 

"Nay,  'tis  not  by  such  tirades  that  truth  is  advanced.  But 
hast  thou  the  Refutation  by  Lambert  V^elthuysen  ?  " 

The  bookseller  shook  his  head. 

**That  is  worth  a  hundred  of  this.  Prithee  get  that  and 
commend  it  to  thy  clients,  for  Velthuysen  wields  a  formidable 
dialectic,  by  which  men's  minds  may  be  veritably  stimulated." 

On  his  homeward  way  dark  looks  still  met  him,  but  he  faced 
them  with  cheerful,  candid  gaze.  At  the  end  of  the  narrow 
Spuistraat  the  affairs  of  the  broad  market-place  engrossed 
popular  attention,  and  the  philosopher  threaded  his  way 
unregarded  among  the  stalls  and  the  canvas-covered  Zeeland 
wagons,  and  it  was  not  till  he  reached  the  Paviljoensgracht 
— where  he  now  sits  securely  in  stone,  pencilling  a  thought  as 
enduring — that  he  encountered  fresh  difficulty.  There,  at  his 
own  street-door,  under  the  trees  lining  the  canal-bank,  his 
landlord.  Van  der  Spijck,  the  painter — usually  a  phlegmatic 
figure  haloed  in  pipe-clouds — congratulated  him  excitedly  on 
his  safe  return,  but  refused  him  entry  to  the  house.  "  Here 
thou  canst  lodge  no  more." 

"  Here  I  lodge  to-night,"  said  Spinoza  quietly,  "  if  there  be 
any  law  in  Holland." 

'*  Law  !  The  folk  will  take  the  law  into  their  own  hands. 
My  windows  will  be  broken,  my  doors  battered  in.  And  thou 
wilt  be  murdered,  and  thrown  into  the  canal." 

His  lodger  laughed.  *' And  wherefore  ?  An  honest  optician 
murdered  !     Go  to,  good  friend  ! " 

"  If  thou  hadst  but  sat  at  home,  polishing  thy  spy-glasses, 
instead  of  faring  to  Utrecht !  Customarily  thou  art  so 
cloistered  in  that  the  goodwife  declares  thou  forgettest  to  eat 
for  three  days  together,  and,  certes,  there  is  little  thou  canst  eat 
when  thou  goest  not  abroad  to  buy  provision  1  What  devil 
must  drive  thee  on  a  long  journey  in  this  hour  of  heat  and 
ferment  ?  Not  that  I  believe  a  word  of  thy  turning  traitor, 
I'd  sooner  believe  my  mahlstick  could  turn  serpent  like  Aaron's 
rod  ;  but  in  my  house  thou  shalt  not  be  murdered." 

*'  Reassure  thyself.  The  whole  town  knows  my  business 
with  Stoupe  ;  at  least  I  told  my  bookseller,  and  'tis  only  a 
maltcr  of  hours." 


THE   MAKER   OF   LENSES.  361 

"  Truly  he  is  a  lively  gossip." 

**  Ay,"  said  Spinoza  drily.  "  He  was  even  aware  that  a  letter 
from  the  Royal  Society  of  England  awaits  me." 

Van  der  Spijck  reddened.  "  I  have  not  opened  it,"  he  cried 
hastily. 

"  Naturally.     But  the  door  thou  mayst  open." 

The  painter  hesitated.  "  They  will  drag  thee  forth,  as  they 
dragged  the  De  Witts  from  the  prison." 

Spinoza  smiled  sadly.  "  And  on  that  occasion  thou  wouldst 
not  let  me  out ;  now  thou  wilt  not  let  me  in." 

"  Both  proofs  that  I  have  more  regard  for  thee  than  thou 
for  thyself.  If  I  had  let  thee  dash  out  to  fix  up  on  the  public 
wall  that  denunciation  thou  hadst  written  of  the  barbarian 
mob,  there  had  been  no  life  of  thine  to  risk  to-day.  Fly  the 
town,  I  beseech  thee,  or  find  thicker  walls  than  mine.  Thou 
knowest  I  would  shelter  thee,  had  I  the  power.  Do  not  our 
other  lodgers  turn  to  thee  in  sickness  and  sorrow  to  be  soothed 
by  thy  talk  ?  Do  not  our  own  little  ones  love  and  obey  thee 
more  than  their  mother  and  me  ?  But  if  thou  wert  murdered 
in  our  home,  how  dreadful  a  shock  and  a  memory  to  us  all !  " 

"  I  know  well  your  love  for  me,"  said  Spinoza,  touched. 
■'  But  fear  nothing  on  my  account,  I  can  easily  justify  myself. 
There  are  people  enough  and  of  chief  men  in  the  country,  too, 
who  well  know  the  motives  of  my  journey.  But  whatever 
comes  of  it,  so  soon  as  the  crowd  make  the  least  noise  at  your 
door,  I  will  go  out  and  make  straight  for  them,  though  they 
should  serve  me  as  they  have  done  the  unhappy  De  Witts." 

Van  der  Spijck  threw  open  the  door.  "Thy  word  is  an 
Dath  ! " 

On  the  stairs  shone  the  speckless  landlady,  a  cheerful 
creature  in  black  cap  and  white  apron,  her  bodice  laced  with 
Drnamental  green  and  red  ribbons.  She  gave  a  cry  of  joy,  and 
iew  to  meet  him,  broom  in  hand.  "  Welcome  home,  Heer 
Spinoza  !  How  glad  the  little  ones  will  be  when  they  get  back 
from  school  !  There's  a  pack  of  knaves  been  slandering  thee 
right  and  left ;  some  of  them  tried  to  pump  Henri,  but  we  sent 
them  away  with  fleas  in  their  ears — eh,  Henri  ?  " 

Henri  smiled  sheepishly. 

"  Most  pertinacious  of  all  was  a  party  of  three — an  old  man 


362  COSMOPOLIS. 

and  his  daughter  and  a  young  man.  They  came  twice,  very 
vexed  to  find  thee  away,  and  feigning  to  be  old  friends  of  thine 
from  Amsterdam  ;  at  least,  not  the  young  man,  his  lament  was 
to  miss  the  celebrated  scholar  he  had  been  taken  to  see.  A 
bushel  of  questions  they  asked,  but  not  many  pecks  did  they 
get  out  of  ;;/^." 

A  flush  had  mantled  upon  Spinoza's  olive  cheek.  "  Did  they 
give  any  name  ?  "  he  asked  with  unusual  eagerness. 

''  It  ends  in  Ende— that  stuck  in  my  memory." 

"Van  den  Ende?" 

"  Or  such  like." 

''  The  daughter  was — beautiful  ?  " 

"A  goddess  !"  put  in  the  painter. 

"  Humph  !"  said  the  vrouw.  ''Give  me  the  young  man.  A 
cold  marble  creature  is  not  my  idea  of  a  goddess." 

"  Tis  a  Greek  goddess,"  said  Spinoza  with  laboured  lightness. 
"They  are  indeed  old  friends  of  mine  ;  saving  the  young  man, 
who  is  doubtless  a  pupil  of  the  old.  He  is  a  very  learned 
philologist,  this  Dr.  van  den  Ende,  he  taught  me  Latin " 

*'  And  Greek  goddesses,"  flashed  the  vrouw  affectionately. 

Spinoza  tried  to  say  something,  but  fell  a-coughing  instead, 
and  began  to  ascend  to  his  room.  He  was  agitated,  and  it  was 
his  principle  to  quit  society  whenever  his  emotions  threatened 
to  exceed  philosophical  moderation. 

"  Wait  !  I  have  thy  key,"  called  the  goodwife,  pursuing  him. 
"  And,  oh  !  what  dust  in  thy  room  !  No  wonder  thou  ar^ 
troubled  with  a  phthisis  !  " 

"  Thou  didst  not  arrange  anything  !  "  he  cried  in  alarm. 

"A  flick  with  a  feather  brush,  as  I  took  in  thy  letters,  no 
more  ;  my  hand  itched  to  be  at  thy  papers.  But  see  !  not  one 
is  in  order  !  " 

She  unlocked  his  door,  revealing  a  little  room  in  which  books 
and  papers  mingled  oddly  with  the  bedroom  furniture,  and 
the  tools  and  bench  of  his  craft.  There  were  two  windows 
with  shabby  red  curtains.  On  nails  hung  a  few  odd  garments, 
one  of  which,  the  doublet  anciently  pierced  by  the  fanatic's 
dagger,  merely  served  as  a  memento,  though  not  visibly  older 
than  the  rest  of  his  wardrobe.  "  Who  puts  a  mediocre  article 
into  a  costly  envelope  ?  "  was  the  philosopher's  sartorial  stand- 


irtB    MAKER  OK   LENSLS.  63 

point.  Over  the  mantel  (on  which,  among  some  old  pipes,  lay 
two  silver  buckles,  his  only  jewellery)  was  pinned  a  charcoal 
sketch  of  Masaniello,  in  shirt-sleeves  with  a  net  on  his  shoulder, 
done  by  Spinoza  himself,  and  obviously  with  his  own  features 
as  model,  perhaps  in  some  whimsical  moment  when  he  figured 
himself  as  an  intellectual  revolutionary.  A  portfolio  that  leaned 
against  a  microscope  contained  black  and  white  studies  of 
some  of  his  illustrious  visitors,  which  caught  happily  their 
essential  features  without  detail.  The  few  other  wall-pictures 
were  engravings  by  other  hands.  Spinoza  sat  down  on  his 
truckle-bed  with  a  great  sigh  of  content. 

"  Desideratoque  acquiescimus  lectOf"  he  murmured.  Then,  his 
eye  roving  around :  "My  spiders'  webs  are  gone !"  he  groaned. 

"  I  could  not  disarrange  aught  in  sweeping  theiu  away  ! " 
deprecated  the  goodwife. 

"Thou  hast  disarranged  me!  I  have  learnt  all  my  wisdom 
from  watching  spiders  !  "  he  said,  smiling. 

"  Nay,  thou  jestest." 

"  In  no  wise.  The  spider  and  the  fly — the  whole  of  life  is  there. 
'Tis  through  leaving  them  out  that  the  theologies  are  so  empty. 
Sesides,  who  will  now  catch  the  flies  for  my  microscope  ?  " 

"  I  will  not  believe  thou  wouldst  have  the  poor  little  flies 
craught  by  the  great  big  spiders.  Never  did  I  understand  what 
I^astor  Cordes  prated  of  turning  the  other  cheek  till  I  met  thee." 

"  Nay,  'tis  not  my  doctrine.  Mine  is  the  worship  of  joy. 
I    hold  that  the  effort  to  preserve  our  being  is  virtue." 

"  But  thou  goest  to  church  sometimes  ?  " 

"  To  hear  a  preacher." 

"A  strange  motive."  She  added  musingly,  "  Christianity  is 
riot,  then,  true  ?  " 

"  Not  true  for  me." 

"Then,  if  thou  canst  not  believe  in  it,  I  will  not." 

Spinoza  smiled  tenderly.     "  Be  guided  by  Dr.  Cordes,  not 
by  me." 

The  goodwife  was  puzzled.  "  Dost  thou,  then,  think  I  can 
be  saved  in  Dr.  Cordes'  doctrine  ?  "  she  asked  anxiously. 

"  Yes,  'tis  a  very  good  doctrine,  the  Lutheran  ;  doubt  not 
thou  wilt  be  saved  in  it,  provided  thou  livest  at  peace  with  thy 
neighbours." 


364  COSMOPOl  IS. 

Her  face  brightened.  "  Then  I  will  be  guided  by  thee." 
Spinoza  smiled.  Theology  demanded  perfect  obedience, 
he  thought,  even  as  philosophy  demanded  perfect  knowledge, 
and  both  alike  were  saving  ;  for  the  believing  mob,  therefore, 
to  which  Religion  meant  subversion  of  Reason,  speculative 
opinions  were  to  be  accounted  pious  or  impious,  not  as  they 
were  true  or  false,  but  as  they  confirmed  or  shook  the  believer's 
obedience. 

Refusing  her  solicitous  offers  of  a  warm  meal,  and  merely 
begging  her  to  buy  him  a  loaf,  he  began  to  read  his  arrears  of 
letters,  picking  them  up  one  after  another  with  no  eagerness, 
but  with  calm  interest.  His  correspondence  was  varied. 
Some  of  it  was  taken  up  with  criticisms  of  his  thought, 
products  of  a  leisurely  age  when  the  thinkers  of  Europe  were 
a  brotherhood,  calling  to  each  other  across  the  dim 
populations  ;  some  represented  the  more  deferential  doubts 
of  disciples  or  the  elegant  misunderstandings  of  philosophic 
dilettanti,  some  his  friendly  intercourse  with  empirical 
physicists  like  Boyle,  or  like  Huyghens,  whose  telescope  had 
enlarged  the  philosopher's  universe  and  the  thinker's  God  ; 
there  was  an  acknowledgment  of  the  last  scholium  from  the 
young  men's  society  of  Amsterdam — "  Nil  volentibus  arduum  " 
— to  which  he  sent  his  "  Ethica  "  in  sections  for  discussion;  the 
metropolis  which  had  banished  him  not  being  able  to  keep  out 
his  thought.  There  was  the  usual  demand  for  explanations  of 
difficulties  from  Blyenbergh,  the  Dort  merchant  and  dignitary, 
accompanied  this  time  by  a  frightened  yearning  to  fly  back 
from  Reason  to  Revelation.  And  the  letter  with  the  seal  of 
the  Royal  Society  proved  equally  faint-hearted,  Oldenburg 
exhorting  him  not  to  say  anything  in  his  next  book  to  loosen 
the  practice  of  virtue.  "  Dear  Heinrich  ! "  thought  Spinoza. 
"  How  curious  are  men  1  All  these  years  since  first  we  met  at 
Rijnsburg  he  has  been  goading  and  spurring  me  on  to  give 
my  deepest  thought  to  the  world.  'Twas  always,  '  Cast  out  all 
fear  of  stirring  up  against  thee  the  pigmies  of  the  time — ^Truth 
before  all — let  us  spread  our  sails  to  the  wind  of  true  Know- 
ledge.' And  now  the  tune  is,  '  O  pray  be  careful  not  to  give 
sinners  a  handle.'  Well,  well,  so  I  am  not  to  tell  men  that  the 
highest  law  is  self-imposed  ;   that  there  is  no  virtue  even  in 


THE   MAKER   OF   LENSES.  365 

virtues  that  do  not  express  the  essence  of  one's  being.  Oh, 
and  I  am  to  beware  particularly  of  telling  them  their  wills  are 
not  free,  and  that  they  only  think  so  because  they  are  conscious 
of  their  desires,  but  not  of  the  causes  of  them.  I  fear  me  even 
Oldenburg  does  not  understand  that  virtue  follows  as 
necessarily  from  adequate  knowledge  as  from  the  definition 
of  a  triangle  follows  that  its  angles  are  equal  to  two  right 
angles.  lam,  I  suppose,  also  to  let  men  continue  to  think  that 
the  planetary  system  revolves  round  them,  and  that  thunders 
and  lightnings  wait  upon  their  wrong-doing.  Oldenburg  has 
doubtless  been  frighted  by  the  extravagances  of  the  restored 
Court.  But  'tis  not  my  teachings  will  corrupt  the  gallants  of 
Whitehall.  Those  who  live  best  by  Revelation  through 
Tradition  must  cling  to  it,  but  Revelation  through  Reason  is 
the  living  testament  of  God's  word,  nor  so  liable  as  the  dead 
letter  to  be  corrupted  by  human  wickedness.  Strange  that  it 
is  thought  no  crime  to  speak  unworthily  of  the  mind,  the  true 
divine  light — no  impiety  to  believe  that  God  would  commit  the 
treasure  of  the  true  record  of  Himself  to  any  substance  less 
enduring  than  the  human  heart." 

A  business  letter  made  a  diversion.  It  concerned  the  estate 
of  the  deceased  medical  student,  Simon  de  Vries,  a  devoted 
disciple,  who,  knowing  himself  doomed  to  die  young,  would 
have  made  the  Master  his  heir,  had  not  Spinoza  by  consenting 
to  a  small  annual  subsidy  persuaded  him  to  leave  his  property 
to  his  brother.  The  grateful  heir  now  proposed  to  increase 
Spinoza's  allowance  to  five  hundred  florins. 

"  How  unreasonable  people  are  !  "  mused  the  philosopher 
again.  "  I  agreed  once  for  all  to  accept  three  hundred,  and  I 
will  certainly  not  be  burdened  with  a  stuivcr  more." 

His  landlady  here  entered  with  the  loaf,  and  Spinoza,  liavintj 
paid  and  entered  the  sum  in  his  household  account-book,  cut 
himself  a  slice,  adding  thereto  some  fragments  of  Dutch  cheese 
from  a  package  in  his  hand-bag. 

*'  Thou  didst  leave  some  wine  in  the  bottle,"  she  reminded 
him. 

"  Let  it  grow  older,"  he  answered.  "  My  book  shows  more 
than  two  pints  last  month,  and  my  journey  was  costly.  To 
make  both  ends  meet   I   shall  have  to  wriggle,"  he  added 

yOT-  I7f— NO  xvf\  4 


366  COSMOPOLIS. 

jestingly,  '*  like  the  snake  that  tries  to  get  its  tail  in  its  mouth." 
He  cut  open  a  packet,  discovering  that  a  friend  had  sent  him 
some  conserve  of  red  roses  from  Amsterdam.  "  Now  am  I 
armed  against  fever,"  he  said  blithely.  Then,  with  a  remem- 
brance, "  Pray  take  some  up  to  our  poor  Signore.  I  had 
forgotten  to  inquire  1 " 

"  Oh,  he  is  out  teaching  again,  thanks  to  thee.     He  hath  set 
up  a  candle  for  thee  in  his  church." 

A  tender  smile  twitched  the  philosopher's  lip,  as  the  door 
closed. 

A  letter  from  Hcrr  Leibnitz  set  him  wondering  uneasily 
what  had  taken  the  young  German  Crichton  from  Frankfort, 
and  what  he  was  about  in  Paris.  They  had  had  many 
discussions  in  this  little  lodging,  but  he  was  not  yet  sure  of 
the  young  man's  single-mindedness.  The  contents  of  the  letter 
were,  however,  unexpectedly  pleasing  ;  for  it  concerned,  not 
the  philosopher,  but  the  working  man.  Even  his  intimates 
could  not  quite  sympathise  with  his  obstinate  insistence  on 
earning  his  living  by  handicraft — a  manual  activity  by  which 
the  excommunicated  Jew  was  brother  to  the  great  Rabbis  of 
the  Talmud  ;  they  could  not  understand  the  satisfaction  of  the 
craftsman,  nor  realise  that  to  turn  out  his  little  lenses  as 
perfectly  as  possible  was  as  essential  a  part  of  his  life  as  that 
philosophical  activity  which  alone  interested  them.  That  his 
prowess  as  an  optician  should  be  invoked  by  Herr  Leibnitz 
gave  him  a  gratification  which  his  fame  as  a  philosopher  could 
never  evoke.  The  only  alloy  was  that  he  could  not  under- 
stand what  Leibnitz  wanted.  "  That  rays  from  points  outside 
the  optic  axis  may  be  united  exactly  in  the  same  way  as  those 
in  the  optic  axis,  so  that  the  apertures  of  glasses  may  be  made 
of  any  size  desired  without  impairing  distinctness  of  vision  ! " 
He  wrinkled  his  brow  and  fell  to  making  geometrical  diagrams 
on  the  envelope  ;  but  neither  his  theoretical  mathematics  nor 
his  practical  craftsmanship  could  grapple  with  so  obscure  a 
request,  and  he  forget  to  eat  while  he  pondered.  He  consulted 
his  own  treatise  on  the  Rainbow,  but  to  no  avail.  At  length  in 
despair  he  took  up  the  last  letter,  to  find  a  greater  surprise 
awaiting  him. 

A  communication  from  Professor  Fabritius,  it  bore  an  offer 


THE  MAKER   OF   LENSES.  367 

from  the  Elector  Palatine  of  a  chair  at  the  University  of 
Heidelberg.  The  fullest  freedom  in  philosophy  was  to  be 
conceded  him  ;  the  only  condition,  that  he  should  not  disturb 
the  established  religion. 

His  surprise  passed  rapidly  into  mistrust.  Was  this  an 
attempt  on  the  part  of  Christianity  to  bribe  him  ?  Was  the 
Church  repeating  the  tactics  of  the  Synagogue  ?  It  was  not 
so  many  years  since  the  messengers  of  the  congregation  had 
offered  him  a  pension  of  a  thousand  florins  not  to  disturb 
/7s  "  established  religion."  Fullest  freedom  in  philosophy, 
forsooth  !  How  was  that  to  be  reconciled  with  impeccable 
deference  to  the  ruling  religion  ?  A  courtier  like  Descartes 
might  start  from  the  standpoint  of  absolute  doubt  and  end  in  a 
pilgrimage  to  our  Lady  of  Loretto  ;  but  for  himself,  who  held 
miracles  impossible,  and,  if  possible,  irrelevant,  there  could  be 
no  such  compromise  with  a  creed  whose  very  basis  was 
miracle.  True,  there  was  a  sense  in  which  Christ  might  be 
considered  os  Dei,  the  mouth  of  God,  but  it  was  not  the  sense 
in  which  the  world  understood  it :  the  world  which  caricatured 
all  great  things,  which  regarded  piety  and  religion,  and 
absolutely  all  things  related  to  greatness  of  soul,  as  burdens 
to  be  laid  aside  after  death,  toils  to  be  repaid  by  a  soporific 
beatitude ;  which  made  blessedness  the  prize  of  virtue  instead 
of  the  synonym  of  virtue  ;  nay,  nay,  not  even  the  unexpected 
patronage  of  the  Most  Serene  Carl  Ludwig  could  reconcile  his 
thoughts  with  popular  theology. 

I.  Zangwill. 
{To  be  coniinued,) 

Author's  Note. — It  should  scarcely  be  necessary  to  say  that,  in  attempting 
to  vitalise  an  historical  figure  like  Spinoza,  the  author  has  made  as  free  use 
of  all  available  material  as  is  permitted  to  the  biojjrapher  or  the  essayist.  But 
obviously  a  novelist  cannot  stop  his  narrative  to  acknowledge  iiis  sources.  Hence, 
too,  in  dealing  with  Heine,  the  author  could  not  point  out,  though  he  mentioned 
it  elsewhere,  that  the  peg  on  which  he  hung  his  picture  of  the  poet  was  suggested 
by  the  historic  visit  of  Lady  Duff  Gordon  to  the  "  Mattress  Grave  ';  the  more  so 
since,  in  constructing  his  listener  to  Heine's  autobiography,  he  found  it  artistically 
necessary  to  blend  this  lady  with  another  of  the  poet's  visitors,  "  La  Mo"che," 
for  which  reason  he  slightly  altered  the  well-known  "  Little  Lucie  "  to  "  Little 
Lucy."  Of  course,  after  the  first  few  sentences,  he  diverged  entirely  from  the 
real  interview,  or  rather  interviews,  which  for  the  rest  were  only  known  to  him 
from  the  stock  quotations  in  biographies  and  essays  (slightly  supplemented  by  the 
kindness  of  a  relative  of  Lady  Duff  Gordon),  and  not  from  "  Three  Generations 
of  Englishwomen,"  which  he  understands  contains  longer  accounts,  but  which 
he  regrets  (for  the  sake  of  the  possible  improvement  of  his  picture)  he  has  never 
seen. 


LETTERS  OF  JOHN  STUART  MILL 
TO  GUSTAVE  D'EICHTHAL.* 

EDITED   BY    ET'GENE    D'ETCHTHAL. 


XII. 

Iu(lia  House,  14///  September,  1839. 
My  Dear  Gustave, 

I  am  happy  to  hear  from  you  again  after  so  long 
an  intermission  of  our  correspondence.  I  have  received  your 
last  pamphlet,  and  have  read  it  with  the  interest  with  which  I 
always  read  anything  of  yours.  I  find  in  it,  as  I  did  in  Les 
Deux  Mondes,\  a  foundation  of  what  seems  to  me  important 
truth.  I  have  long  been  convinced  that  not  only  the  East  as 
compared  with  the  West,  but  the  black  race  as  compared  with 
the  European,  is  distinguished  by  characteristics  something 
like  those  which  you  assign  to  them — that  the  improvement 
which  may  be  looked  for  from  a  more  intimate  and  sym- 
pathetic familiarity  between  the  two  will  not  be  solely  on  their 
side,  but  greatly  also  on  ours  ;  that  if  our  intelligence  is  more 
developed  and  our  activity  more  intense,  they  possess  exactly 
what  is  most  needful  to  us  as  a  qualifying  counterpoise  in 
their  love  of  repose  and  in  the  superior  capacity  of  animal 
enjoyment,  and  consequently  sympathetic  sensibility,  which  is 
characteristic  of  the  negro  race. 

I  have  even  long  thought  that  the  same  distinction  holds, 
though  in  a  less  prononci  manner,  between  the  nations  of  the 
north  and  south  of  Europe,  that  the  north  is  destined  to  be 
the  workshop,  material  and  intellectual,  of  Europe,  the  south 
its  "  stately  pleasure  house,"  and  that  neither  will  fulfil  its 
destination  until  it  has  made  its  peculiar  function  available  for 

*  The  first  series  of  these  letters  was  publislicd  in  CosMopoi.is  for  April  and 
May,  iHf)7. 

f  I'n  ou%Taj»c  ou  nion  pcrc  avail  expose  scs  idees  siir  I'avcpir  de  rOrient-^ 


LETTERS  OF  J.   S.   MILL  TO  Gl'STAVK   D'EICHTHAL.       369 

the  benefit  of  both,  until  our  work  is  done  for  their  benefit,  and 
until  we,  in  the  measure  of  our  nature,  are  made  susceptible 
of  their  luxury  and  sensuous  enjoyment. 

Thus,  you  see,  I  am  very  well  prepared  to  give  a  favourable 
reception  to  your  speculations  and  to  join  in  your  aspirations, 
and  I  am  not  less  desirous  than  at  any  former  period  to  keep 
up  that  sort  of  intellectual  communion  with  you  which  I  have 
already  enjoyed.  I  do  not  find  my  enjoyment  of  speculation 
at  all  abated,  though  I  see  less  and  less  prospect  of  drawing 
together  any  body  of  persons  to  associate  in  the  name  and 
behalf  of  any  set  of  fixed  principles.  Still,  no  good  seed  is 
lost ;  it  takes  root,  and  springs  up  somewhere,  and  will  help 
in  time  towards  the  general  reconstruction  of  the  opinions  of 
the  civilised  world  for  which  ours  is  only  a  period  of  prepara- 
tion, but  towards  which  almost  all  the  things  and  men  of  our 
time  are  working,  though  the  mepi,  for  the  most  part,  almost 
as  unconsciously  as  the  things.  "Wherefore,  cast  ye  your 
bread  on  the  waters,  and  you  shall  find  it  after  many  days." 

I  am  much  concerned  to  hear  of  your  father's  late  illness 
and  Adolphe's  indisposition.  Pray  assure  them  both,  Adolphe 
especially,  of  my  affectionate  regards,  and  tell  me  when  you. 
next  write  very  particularly  how  they  are. 

Very  truly  yours, 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XIII. 
18,  Kensington-square^  I'jth  December^  1839. 

My  Dear  Gustave, 

I  have  been  a  long  while  without  answering  your 
last  letter — which  I  should  not  have  been  if  I  could  have  given 
you  any  information  worth  sending  on  African  affairs.  I  do 
not  believe  there  has  been  any  voyage  on  the  Niger  since 
Laird  and  Oldfield ;  if  there  has,  I  am  sure  you  will  find 
references  to  it  in  Buxton's  book.  It  is  said  that  there  is  to  be 
another  expedition  soon  to  ascend  the  river  in  steamboats,  but 
I  do  not  know  whether  it  is  to  be  fitted  out  by  Government  or 
by  individuals.  I  am  very  little  conversant  with  the  affairs  of 
Western  Africa,  or  I  could,  perhaps,*  tell  you  more.  The 
continuation  of  my  father's  history  will  come  down  to  the  last 


370  COSMOPOLIS. 

renewal  of  the  Company  Charter,  in  1833.  The  whole, 
continuation  and  all,  will  be  contained  in  eight  volumes,  which 
will  cost  IDS.  6d.  or  12s.  each,  and  will  be  published,  it  is 
hoped,  monthly,  beginning  next  February  or  March,  so  as  to 
be  completed  within  the  year.  But  I  think  it  very  doubtful 
whether  they  will  be  able  to  complete  it  within  so  short  a 
time. 

As  for  the  Oxford  school,  it  is  a  new  Catholic  school  without 
the  Pope.     It  has  received  and  reasserted  the  old  Anglican 
doctrine,  that  the  English  Church  is  the  Catholic  Church — 
that   the   Church    of  Rome  since  the   Council    of    Trent    is 
schismatic — and   it   claims   in  behalf  of    the    Church  a   real 
spiritual  power  similar  and  almost  equal  to  that  which  was 
exercised    by  the   Catholic  Church  before  the  Reformation. 
The  depositary  of  this  spiritual  power  is,  according  to  them, 
the  body  of  ordained  clergy — that  is,  ordained  by  bishops, 
deriving  their  authority  by  apostolic  succession  from    Jesus 
Christ.    The  principal  peculiarity  of  this  school  is  hostility  to 
what  they  call  ultra-Protestantism.     They  recognise  tradition, 
and    not   the   Scriptures  merely,  as   one   of    the   sources  of 
Christianity.    They  dislike  the  word  Protestant  altogether,  as 
a  word  which  denotes  only  negation  and  disunion.     And  they 
urge  all  the  arguments  of  the   19th  century  against  the  i8th, 
of  the  St.  Simonians  against  the  (^cole  critique ;  all  these  they 
urge    against    Protestantism   of    the    common    English  kind. 
Some  of  them  have  even  revived  prayers  for  the  dead,  kbeping 
saints'  days,  &c.,  and  one  of  their  leaders  has  published  a  book 
of  Latin  hymns,  including  some  to  the  Virgin.  They  reprobate 
the  "right  of  private  judgment,"  and  consider  learning,  rather 
than    original    thinking,   the   proper  attribution  of  a  divine. 
They  discourage   the  Methodistical  view  of  religion,  which 
makes   devotional   feeling  a  state  of  strong  excitement,  and 
inculcate   rather   a  spirit  of    humility  and  self-mortification. 
This  is  a  very  vague  description  of  them,  but  I  h'ave  not  studied 
them  sufficiently  yet  to  give  a  better.     It  is  one  of  the  forms — 
of  the  best  form  hitherto  of  the  reaction  of  Anglicanism  against 
Methodism,  incredulity,  and  rationalism.    They  hold  many  of 
the   opinions  of  Laud  and  the  semi-Catholic  High  Church, 
divines  of  Charles  the  First's  time,  and  their  doctrine,  which  is 


LETTERS  OF  J.   S.   MILL  TO  GUSTAVE   D'EICHTHAL.       371 

spreading   fast   among   the   younger   clergy,  is   giving   great 

offence  to  the  Evangelical  part  of  the  Church  (you  know  the 

Calvinistic  part  of  it,  who  fraternise  with  the  Dissenters,  take 

that  name),  which  had  previously  been  increasing  very  much 

in  number  and  influence.     They  are  passive  obedience  men, 

and  one  of  their  chiefs  preached  a  sermon  on  November  5,  in 

which  he  said  that  we  ought  to  beg  forgiveness  of  God  for  the 

sin  of  our  ancestors  in  turning  out  James  the  Second.    Among 

others  of  their  proselytes,  it  is  said  that  Gladstone,  the  only 

rising   man    among    the    Tories,  is  one  ;    the  man  who  will 

probably  succeed  Peel  as  the  Tory  Leader,  unless  this  prevents 

him.    The  principal  chiefs  are  Dr.  Pusey,  an  Oxford  professor, 

and  Mr.  Newman. 

Ever  yours  faithfully, 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XIV. 

India  House,  yth  May,  1840. 

My  Dear  Gustave, 

I  have  been  very  long  in  answering  your  letters, 
having  been  absent  from  London  for  some  weeks  attending 
the  death-bed  of  a  brother,  who  was  the  pride  and  hope  of 
our  whole  family,  and  whose  loss  I  shall  have  cause  to  regret 
as  long  as  I  live.  This  absence  occasioned  my  losing  the 
opportunity  of  seeing  MM.  Stephane  Mony  and  Isaac  Pereire, 
both  well  known  to  me  by  their  antMdents,  and  the  former 
personally.  I  have  to  thank  you  for  a  letter  I  have  received 
from  M.  Michelet  accompanying  two  volumes  of  his  admir- 
able history,  and  which,  as  I  had  not  time  to  answer  im- 
mediately, I  shall  now  defer  answering  until  I  have  read  the 
new  volume.  I  was  already  intimately  acquainted  with  the 
former  volumes,  as  well  as  with  all  his  other  works,  and  I  beg 
of  you  to  tell  him  that  I  have  long  felt  the  warmest  admiration 
for  them,  and  have  expressed  it  publicly  on  several  occasions 
before  the  one  which  attracted  your  notice.  I  had  long 
meditated  reviewing  his  Roman  history  in  The  Westminster,  and 
now  that  I  am  no  longer  connected  with  that  review  it  is 
probable  that  I  shall  have  the  satisfaction  of  making  both  that 
and  the  "  History  of  France "  still  more  widely  known,  by 


372  COSMOPOLIS. 

means  of  The  Edinburgh  RaneWf  in  which  I  have  engaged  to 
write  some  articles  on  the  new  French  historical  school. 
Would  you  oblige  me  with  M.  Michelet's  address  ? 

I  have  not  yet  seen  M.Guizot,  though  I  have  been  very  near 
seeing  him  several  times,  and  should  have  ventured  to  call  on 
him,  if  I  were  not  so  circumstanced  as  to  hours,  that  it  is 
impossible  for  me  to  call  at  any  time  of  the  day  suitable  to  a 
civilised  being. 

Your  opinion  on  the  decisive  character  of  the  late  triumph 

of  parliamentary  government  (ostensibly),  and  of  democracy 

really,  in  France,  is  very  interesting  to  me.     It  is  a  great  event, 

and  makes  me  recur  to  what  I  have  so  often  thought,  les  choses 

manhenl  rite  en  France  (and  in  this  age,  altogether  one  may 

add). 

Ever  yours, 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XV. 

India  Ilonsef  lyfh  Junc^  1840. 

My  Dear  d'Eichthal, 

«  «  •  *  « 

I    dined   last  Saturday  with    M.   Guizot,    whose 

conversation  quite  corresponds  to  the  high  idea  I  had  formed 

of  him  from  his  writings.     He  was  very  kind,  and  gave  me  a 

general  invitation  to  call  upon  him.     His  having  come  here 

as   anibiissador  is  a  real   evenenient,   for   it  makes  our  stupid 

incurious  people  read  his  books.     You  would  be  astonished 

how  few  here,  even  yet,  know  that  there  is  such  a  thing  as  a 

philosophy  of  the  19th  century  in  France  different  from  the 

1 8th.     Still,  we  are  improving  ;  the  best  ideas  of  the  age  are  in 

some  degree  insinuating  themselves  into  our  minds,  though 

we,  in  general,  are  very  little  aware  how  or  from  whence  they 

come  to  us. 

You  may  meiisure  the  distance  between  France  and  England 

by  that   between   Guizot  and  Peel,  each   the  leader   of  the 

Conservative  party  in  their   respective   countries.      Happily, 

though   we   are   slow,   w^e   are  sure.      We  are  the  ballast  of 

Europe,  France  its  sail. 

Ever  yours  truly, 

J.  S.  Mill. 


LETTERS  OF  J.  S.   MILL  TO  GUSTAVE   d'eICHTHAL.       373 

XVI. 

Kensington,  2^th  December,  1840. 

My  Dear  d'Eichthal, 

I  did  not  write  to  you  when  I 'received  the 
mournful  and  to  me  quite  unexpected  news  of  the  loss  ol 
your  father — not  that  I  did  not  feel  with  you  and  for  you,  but 
I  knew  how  little  comfort  words  can  give  in  such  a  case,  and, 
if  they  could,  how  many  you  have  who  are  nearer  and  more 
efficacious  consolers  than  I  can  be.  There  is  certainly 
something  in  a  father's  death  (quite  independently  of  personal 
affection)  more  solemn  and  affecting  than  in  any  other  loss. 
It  closes  the  past,  and,  as  it  were,  severs  the  connexion  between 
oneself  and  one's  youth.  The  only  still  worse  loss  is  that 
which  closes  the  future,  as  the  death  of  a  beloved  wife  or 
child,  because  there  disappointed  hopes  are  superadded.  1  had 
something  like  this  to  bear,  when  I  lost,  less  than  a  year  ago, 
a  brother,  only  in  his  twentieth  year,  who  was  likely,  if  he  had 
lived,  to  be  one  of  the  most  valuable  men  of  our  time,  as  he 
was  already  one  of  the  most  lovable.  But,  Allah  akhbar,  as 
your  friends  the  Mussulmans  say. 

I  received  duly  your  letter  to  Buxton,  and  forwarded  it  lo 

him,  and  I  have  since  received  the  pamphlet,  for  which  1  thank 

you  very  much.     What  prospect  is  there  of  the  appearance  of 

the  work  itself  ?      One  of  our  principal  papers.   The  Times,  I 

think,  inserted  the  account  which  appeared  in  the  Monileur. 

There  is  every  appearance  that  you  have  made  out  your  case, 

and,  if  you  have,  it  is  a  very  important  thing  to  have  done. 

Islamism  is  a  fortunate  thing  for  the  Africans,  and  1  sometimes 

think  it  is  very  unfortunate  for  the  Indians  of  America  that 

Mussulmans  did  not  land  there  instead  of  Christians,  as  they 

would  have   been  much   more  likely  to  adopt  that    type  of 

religion  and  civilization  than  the  other. 

You  are  very  usefully  employed  in  throwing  light  on  these 
dark  subjects :  the  whole  subject  of  the  races  of  man,  their 
characteristics,  and  the  laws  of  their  fusion  is  more  important 
than  it  was  ever  considered  till  of  late,  and  it  is  now  quite 
a  Vordre  du  jour,  and  labour  bestowed  upon  it  is  therefore  not 
lost,  even  for  immediate  practical  ends. 

I  am  out  of  heart  about  public  affairs,  as  much  as  I  ever 


374  COSMOPOLIS. 

suffer  myself  to  be.      I  never  thought  that  in  our  day  one  man 
had  the  power  of  doing  so  much  mischief  as  that  shallow  and 
senseless  coxcomb  Palmerston   has  done.      Half  the   Liberal 
party,  even   many    of   the  old  Whigs,  are   against   him,  and 
it   is    most   mortifying  to   think,   if  the  Tories  had  been  in 
power,   and   had   done   this   (which   they  never   would  have 
dared),  how  gloriously  we  should  have  turned  them  out  upon 
it,  and   thereby   cemented    the     friendship    of    France    and 
England  for  generations  to  come.     But  the  ten  years  of  Whig 
administration    have   entirely  demoralized   our  Liberal  party. 
Lord  Holland  certainly  died  of  it,  so  old  Rogers  says,  who,  you 
know,  is  the  familiar  of  the  Whig  houses,  and  he  adds  that  it 
will  kill  him  too  !     The  worst  is,  that  with  all  the  good  will  in 
the  world  I  can  only  palliate,  not  excuse  the  conduct  of  France, 
and  the  spirit  displayed  by  the  French  press  and  much  of  the 
French  public.     And  this  display,  you  may  believe  me  when  I 
say  it,  has    made  numbers   of   our  best  and   most  thinking 
persons  think  Palmerston  in  the  right,  who  would  otherwise 
have  been  grievously  incensed  against  him.     It  is  that  which 
has  done  the  mischief  here.      I  fear  the   present  generation 
of   English  will  never   again  feel  confidence   in   the  French 
people.     They  are  now  convinced  that  the  spirit  of  military 
and  Bonapartist  aggression  and  the  bitterness  of  resentment 
against  England  are  still    alive,  that  France  conuot  be  con- 
ciliated to  England,  and  that  the  only  chance  for  peace  in 
Europe  is  in  a  strong  Conservative  Government,  which  shall 
keep  down  the  democracy  and  the  public  feeling  for  its  own 
sake.     I  do  assure  you  that,  until  the  French  journalists  and 
orators  irritated  and  alarmed  our  public,  there  was  not  a  particle 
of  feeling  here  against  France,  or  of  interest,  one  way  or  the 
other,  in  the  Egyptian  question.    The  whole  was  a  wretched 
freak  of  Palmerston,-  for  which  God  reward  him  instead  of  us, 
but  "  quidquid  delirant  Whigges  plectuntur  Achaei." 
\   It  is  impossible  not  to  love  the  French  people,  and  at  the 
same  time  not  to  admit  that  they  are  children,  whereas  with  us 
even  children  are  care-hardened  men  of  fiftv.     It  is  as  I  have 
long  thought,  a  clear  case  for  the  croiscment  des  races. 

It  is  really  quite  time  that  I  should  see  and  converse  with 
you  again,  and  with  my  dear  and  most  valued  friend  Adolphe. 


LETTERS  OF  J.  S.   MILL  TO  GUSTAVE   D'eICHTHAL.       375 

We  are,  both  of  us,  much  changed  since  we  last  met — you  and 

I,  I  mean,  for  Adolphe  I  should  think  is  much  the  same  as 

before.    You  probably  have  found  out  by  experience,  as  I  have, 

the  meaning  of  growing  "sadder  and  wiser,"  as  one  grows 

older,  and  that  too  without  growing  at  all  unhappy,  but,  on 

the  contrary,  happier.     And   you   have    felt,  as  I  have,  how 

one's  course  changes  as  one  gets  experience,  but  changes  by 

widening,  and  therefore  still  keeps  the  same  direction  as  before 

only  with  a  slower   movement,  as   attempting  to   hit    more 

points  at  once.     There  is  so  much  to  say  if  one  begins  to  let 

oneself  go,  that  I  must  not  go  on. 

Pray  write  soon,  and  tell  me  among  other  things  whether 

Guizot  is  likely  to  stand,  and  what  you  now  think  of  him. 

As  for  me,  I  honour  and  venerate  him  (it  is  but  little  to  say) 

before  all  living  statesmen,  though  I  differ  from  many  of  his 

opinions. 

Ever  affectionately  yours, 

J.  S.  Mill. 
XVII. 

India  House,  z^rd  February,  1841. 

My  Dear  d'Eichthal, 

«  «  «  «  « 

The  Journal  des  Debats  reached  me,  and  gave 
me  pleasure.  The  idea  of  your  pamphlet  is  so  appro- 
priate to  the  present  time,  that  it  could  not  fail  to  excite 
attention.  The  Quarterly  Review,  not  long  ago,  made  a 
suggestion  of  a  similar  tendency  for  securing  religious  liberty 
at  Jerusalem,  by  placing  it  under  the  protection  of  Austria,  a 
not  uninteresting  rapprochement  with  your  views  of  the 
mission  of  that  Power  in  Les  Deux  Alondes.  But  the  time  is 
not  yet  come  when  the  public  mind  can  be  drawn  to  the  settle- 
ment of  Syria,  nor  will  that  time  come  until  the  apprehension 
of  a  European  war  is  at  an  end,  and  that  apprehension  is 
now,  in  England,  much  more  serious  than  it  has  ever  been. 
The  fortifications  and  the  arming  appear  to  most  people  here 
impossible  to  be  accounted  for,  except  by  aggressive  designs 
on  the  part  of  France  ;  it  is  in  vain  to  say,  as  those  who  know 
the  state  of  the  French  mind  do,  that  the  purpose  is  merely 
defensive,  t>ecause  to  every  Englishman  the  idea  that  there  is 


376  COSMOPOLJS. 

the  least  disposition  anywhere  to  commit  aggression  against 
France  appears  so  utterly  senseless,  that  no  one  can  believe 
such  an  idea  to  be  sincerely  entertained  in  France.  There  is 
something  exceedingly  strange  and  lamentable  in  the  utter 
incapacity  of  our  two  nations  to  understand  or  believe  the  real 
character  and  springs  of  action  of  each  other.  I  am  tempted 
to  write  a  pamphlet  or  a  review  article  on  that  very  subject, 
but  that  I  fear  it  would  produce  no  effect.  There  will  be  much 
to  discuss  between  you  and  me  on  that  subject,  as  well  as  on 
so  many  others,  when  we  meet.  Thanks,  my  dear  friend,  to 
you  and  Adolphe  for  your  kind  propositions  respecting  my 
visit  to  Paris.  I  have  a  very  serious  intention  of  going  there, 
but  there  are  things  that  may  prevent  me  from  doing  so  this 
next  summer  ;  and,  if  I  do,  it  will  probably  be  under  engage- 
ments which  will  prevent  me  from  being  able  to  make  use  of 
your  kind  and  friendly  offers  to  the  extent  I  otherwise  might. 
But  neither  these  engagements,  nor  anything  else,  could  or 
should  prevent  me,  if  your  and  Adolphe's  engagements  do  not, 
from  seeing,  I  hope,  very  much  of  both  of  you,  and  renewing 
our  former  intimate  intercourse.  I  doubt  not,  from  what 
you  say,  that  you  will  by  that  time  be  miU'ried,  and  though  that 
is  not  likely  to  be  the  case  with  me,  I  can  yet  very  heartily 
congratulate  you,  more  heartily  than  I  generally  can  venture 
to  congratulate  an  Englishmen  on  a  similar  event,  which,  in 
nine  cases  out  of  ten,  changes  a  man  of  any  superiority  very 
much  for  the  worse,  without  making  him  happy.  I  do  not 
believe  that  this  is  commonly  the  case  in  France,  and  I  should 
attempt  to  show  why,  if  the  considerations  entering  into  the 
question  were  not  far  more  complicated  than  most  people  have 

reflected  upon. 

Yours  affectionately, 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XVIII. 

India  House,  ()th  March,  1841. 
My  Dear  Gustave, 

I   have  received  your  letter  of  the  2nd  of  March, 

and  also  the  second  packet,  but  not  the  first  of  two  copies  of 

"rUnit6  europ6enne,"  one  of  which  I  have  sent  to  Carlyle.    I 

will  get  the  six  copies  from  Messrs.  Belizard.    Certainly  the 


LETTERS   TO   J.   S.   MILL  TO   GUSTAVE    D'EICHTHAL.       377 

article  in  the  D^bats  could  give  no  idea  of  the  comprehensive 
and  decided  views  taken  in  the  pamphlet,  and  altogether  it 
does  not  seem  to  me,  any  more  than  the  article  in  the  Universe 
worthy  of  the  subject.     I  am  not  surprised  that  such  a  paper 
as  this  should  have  given  you  le  caract^re  politique,  for  it  is 
admirably  suited  to  the  moment,  and  nothing  could  be  better 
calculated  to  do  good  in  France.    It  is  much  to  be  hoped,  and 
is  in  itself  probable,  that  the  French  Government  will  propose 
to    itself  as    an    object,    to   re-enter    into  the  association  of 
European    nations,    and  reassert    its  just   influence   in    their 
deliberations  by  some  means  as  you  suggest.     The  danger,  I 
am  very  sorry  to  say,  is   that    oitr   Government  will  not  be 
prompt  to  seize  this  mode  of  re-establishing  friendship  and 
calming  irritated  susceptibilities.     By  most  stupid  and  grossier  • 
mismanagement,  our  Government  has  got  itself  committed  to 
treating  the  affair  of  Syria  as  a    mere    question    between   a 
sovereign  and  a  rebel  governor,  and  has  made  all  manner  of 
unnecessary  declarations,  which  will  preclude  it  from  entering, 
I  fear,  into  any  proposition  for  superseding  the  authority  of  the 
Porte  in  what  is  absurdly  called  our  territory.     Wait  a  little, 
and  the  Porte  will  get  into  such  terrible  embarrassments,  and 
will  prove  itself  so  utterly  incapable  of  bringing  the  country 
into  order  and  tranquillity,  that  the  necessity  of  a  joint  inter- 
vention of  the  European  Powers  will  become  apparent  to  every- 
body, and  then  France  will  be  able,  if  she  chooses,  to  gain  the 
well-merited  credit  of  intervening  on  a  basis  of  enlightened 
philanthropy  and  enlarged  views  of  futurity,  instead  of  leaving 
all  to  the  other  Powers,  who  would  certainly  continue  to  drag 
in  the  amines  of  the  old  notions  of  government  and  inter- 
national  relations.      What  you    say  on  the  character  of  the 
present  state    of   feeling    in    France  is   most  powerfully  and 
vividly  conceived,  and  recommends  itself  to  me  as  conformable 
to  all  that  I,  in  a  more  confused  manner,  thought  of  it.     But 
in  this  country  everybody  imagines  that  the  French  are  far 
more  warlike  than  they  were  in  the  time  of  Mr.  Thiers,  and  it 
is  of  no  use  telling  people  the  contrary.     It  must  be  left  to 
time  and  events  to  correct  the  error.     I  have  always  thought 
that  the  events  which  have  so  deplorably  resuscitated  the  old 
feelings  of  alienation  between  the  two  nations  would  produce 


37^  cosMOPOi  IS. 

an  effect  less  sudden  and  violent  on  our  people  than  on  yours, 
but  more  deeply  rooted  and  more  durable. 

I  have  bought  Salvador's  last  book,  and  ordered  the  previous 
one.     I  have  not  yet  read  either. 

I  wish  I  had  time  to  write  to  you  a  whole  volume  on  the 
unheard  of  travail  d'esprit  which  is  pervading  all  branches  of 
society  and  shades  of  opinion  among  us.  We  are  in  a  curious 
time  of  the  world. 

Ever  yours, 

]•  S.  Mill. 


XIX. 

.    .     .  1841.* 

»  ♦  *  «  ♦ 

I  am  truly  glad  that  you  and  that  M.  Guizot 
expect  from  the  fortifications  a  result  so  much  the  contrary  of 
what  everybody  out  of  France  expects  from  them.  English- 
men of  all  parties,  thinking  it  entirely  frantic  to  suppose  that 
any  power  or  nation  has,  or  is  likely  to  have,  a  design  of 
invading  France,  will  be  very  long  before  they  can  be  persuaded 
to  look  upon  these  measures  of  defence  as  proceeding  from 
any  other  spirit  than  one  of  offence.  I  agree  with  you  that  the 
discussions  do  honour  to  France,  but  I  say  so  only  because 
there  were  so  many  good  speeches  against  a  measure  which 
had  the  popular  cry  in  its  favour.  As  to  the  speeches  for  it, 
at  least  those  of  Thiers  and  his  friends,  I  only  express  the 
universal  opinion  here  when  I  say  that  there  has  been  no 
public  exhibition  for  many  years  so  discreditable  to  the 
country  producing  it.  As  for  us,  we  are  entering  into  a  new 
epoch  ;  the  proposition  of  our  Ministry  respecting  the  tariff, 
and  especially  the  corn  laws,  coming  after  many  smaller 
measures  of  internal  improvements,  will  rally  the  whole 
Liberal  party  to  the  present  Ministry,  and  will  keep  them 
in  office  for  a  long  time  to  come.  Except  our  Chartists, 
all  the  Radicals  will  now  be  one  with  the  Whigs,  and  I 
expect  and  believe  that  out  of  this  crisis  will  arise  a 
situation  of  things  which  will  render  the  Whig  Ministry  what 

•  irC  debut  de  celte  lettre  est  perdu. — E.  u'E. 


LETTERS  OF  J.   S.    MILL  TO   GUSTAVR    D'EICHTHAL.       379 

they  have  never  been  before  —real  mediators  between  the  new 

and  the  old  ideas  and  interests,  and  real  preparers  and  softeners 

of  the  change  to  a  new  and  better  social  organisation.      But  I 

will  write  to  you  more  at  length  about  these  matters  soon. 

Meanwhile,  adieu. 

With  kind  regards, 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XX. 

India  HousCf  10///  January^  1842. 

My  Dear  Gustave, 

I  am  really  ashamed  to  see  that  your  last  letter, 
one  of  the  most  interesting  I  ever  received  from  you,  has 
remained  more  than  six  weeks  unanswered.  My  only  excuse 
is  that  I  was,  and  still  am,  busy  making  the  Hnal  revision  of  a 
book  which  is  to  be  published  this  spring,  and  in  which  I  have 
said  all  that  I  can  find  to  say  on  Methods  of  Philosophic 
Investigation.  I  do  not  expect  to  find  many  readers  for  this 
book,  but  I  had  things  to  say  on  the  subject,  and  it  was  part  of 
my  task  on  earth  to  say  them,  and  therefore  having  said  them, 
I  feel  a  portion  of  my  work  to  be  done. 

With  regard  to  Salvador's  two  books,*  the  earliest  made  a 
very  mixed  impression  upon  me,  the  latest  one  wholly 
favourable  ;  it  seems  to  me  that  he-  has  better  understood  the 
spirit  of  the  times  in  which  Christianity  arose,  and  the  nature 
of  Christianity  itself,  as  a  phenomenon  in  the  history  of  the 
ancient  world,  than  anybody  else,  and  that  he  is  nearer 
the  truth  than  even  Strauss.  Altogether  it  is  a  good  book, 
and  I  have  instigated  several  people  to  read  it.  As  for 
the  first,  it  has  also  thrown  much  new  light  upon  history, 
and  has  made  me  think  in  a  manner  I  never  expected  to  do 
of  the  Hebrew  people  and  polity;  "mais  cela  se  ressent 
horriblement  des  quinze  ann6es  de  la  Restauration."  I  could 
hardly  help  laughing  at  the  manner  in  which  he  strains 
everything  to  recommend  poor  Moses  to  the  Constitutional 
Opposition,  and  to  show  that  the  Jews  were  Liberals,  political 

•  Les  ouvrages  de  Salvador  ici  mciitionnes  sont  VHistoirc  des  hisiitutions  dc 
Moisc  (1828),  et  JisuS'Chrhi  ct  sa  Doctrine  (1838).-  E.  d'E, 


380  COSMOPOLIS. 

economists,  and  Utilitarians — that  they  had,  properly  speaking, 
no  religion,  or  next  to  none,  and  were  altogether  a  In  hauteur 
de  Npoque,  worthy  sons  of  the  eighteenth  century.      I  would 
very  simply  advise  him  to  cancel  the  whole  book,  and  write  it 
over  again  in  a  spirit  worthy  of  his  second  work,  written  ten  or 
twelve  years  later,  and  for  a  public  much  more  advanced.     He 
is  quite  right,  for  instance,  in  saying  that  the  liberty  of  prophe- 
sying was  equivalent  in  the  Jewish  polity  to  the  liberty  of  the 
press,  and  the  point  is  a  new  and  striking  one  ;  but  it  really  is 
not  necessary  to  tell  us  that  the  prophets  did  not  pretend  to  /n*, 
nor  were  supposed  to  be,  specially  accredited  from  God,  that 
all  the  expressions  implying  them  to  be  such  are  a  mere  fa(on 
de  parleVf  meaning  only  that  they  were  very  clever  fellows,  and 
to  fortify  this  by  philosophical  arguments  from  the  usages  and 
phrases  from  the  Hebrew  tongue.     Why  not  say  at  once  that 
all  persons  of  genius,  inspired  persons  in  the  modern  sense, 
poets   and  persons  of  imagination   and   eloquence  who  had 
great  and  wonderful  powers  not  derived  from  teaching,  were 
believed  to  derive  these  powers  straight  from  God,  and  were,  in 
consequence  of  that  religious  belief,  permitted  from  religious 
motives  to  exercise  that  right  of  free  speech  and  free  censure 
of  powerful  persons  which  certainly  would  not  in  that  age 
have  been  conceded  to  anyone  who   spoke  merely  as  from 
himself  ? 

I  have  been  reading  at  odd  times  your  friend  Leroux's  book 
"  De  THumanite";  the  historical  part  I  like.  Those  few  pages 
on  the  schools  of  Greek  philosophy  are  quite  perfect  ;  but 
when  we  come  to  his  own  theory,  did  ever  mortal  man  wTite 
such  intolerable  nonsense  ?  There  are  ideas  in  that,  too,  about 
Moses,  "  mais  qui  ne  valent  pas  celles  de  Salvador." 

I  long  to  see  your  speculations  on  the  subject,  but  I  wmild 
not  advise  your  publishing  a  translation  here,  at  least  in  the 
first  instance.  Even  Salvador  has  not  been  translated  nor 
heard  of,  and  nobody  here  is  yet  ripe  for  reading  a  serious 
philosophical  discussion  on  the  Bible.  We  are  all  either  bigots 
or  Voltairians,  but  we  are  improving.  In  ten  years  I  think  we 
shall  have  made  some  way  between  our  Neo-Catholic  school 
at  Oxford  and  the  German  Rationalists  who  are  beginning  to 
be  secretly  read  her^t 


rntc  - 
ten  c 
L     H-. 

r  t     If  : 

-eaWy  > 
d  :c 

rc  .;-.-;:• 

n  sense 
'^^    hjz 

vere.   - 


rr.p. 


^>li 


LETTERS   OF   J.    H.   MILL  TO   GT\STAVE    D'EICHTHAL. 

All  you  say  on  politics  in  your  letter  is  extremely  interest 
and  evidently  true.  You  are  the  only  person  whose  opin 
on  the  political  state  and  prospects  of  France  I  always  J 
that  I  can  rely  on.  As  for  us,  I  believe  that  we  are  about 
have  a  real  juste-milicu  Ministry,  and  that  things  will  go 
tolerably  smoothly  till  the  "grande  question  sociale  < 
ouvriers"  becomes  imminent,  which  it  is  rapidly  becomi 
(perhaps  more  rapidly  than  even  with  you.  What  will  hapj 
then,  Heaven  knows.    "  11  nous  manque  //;/  hominc  tout  com 


a  vous. 


It 


Give  my  kindest  regards  to  Adolphe  and  remembrance 

all  friends. 

Ever  yours, 

J.  S.  Mill 


VOL,  IX.— NO.  XX\'I. 


b 


t 


ALPHONSE  DAUDET. 


Aftkr  spendin^f  last  summer,  as  usual,  in  his  country  place 
at  Cliamprosay,  Alphonsc  Daudet  came  back  no  more  to 
winter  in  those  historic  rooms  in  the  Rue  dc  Bellechasse  where 
all  the  world  had  laid  at  his  feet  the  tribute  of  its  homage  and 
curiosity.  His  growing  infirmities  had  made  the  mounting  of 
five  flights  of  stairs  finally  intolerable  to  him.  He  took  an 
apartment  on  the  first  floor,  No.  41,  Rue  de  TUniversite,  which 
was  far  better  suited  to  his  condition,  and  here,  in  excellent 
spirits,  charmed  with  the  change,  and  eager  for  the  spring  to 
blossom  in  the  surrounding  gardens,  he  was  proposing  to 
receive  his  friends  at  Christmas.  But  another  guest  long 
since  due,  but  not  at  that  moment  expected,  knocked  first  at 
the  door  of  the  still  unfinished  house.  On  the  evening  of 
December  16,  1897,  while  he  was  chatting  gaily  at  the  dinner- 
table  in  company  with  his  wife  jmd  children,  Alphonse  Daudet 
uttered  a  cry  and  fell  back  in  his  chair.  His  sons  flew  for  a 
doctor,  but  in  vain  ;  the  end  had  come — the  terrible  spectre 
so  long  awaited,  so  mysteriously  dreaded  for  its  attendant 
horrors  of  pain  and  intolerable  decay,  had  appeared  alonf>,  and 
in  the  guise  of  a  beneficent  angel.  The  last  page  of  "  Ma 
Douleur,"  when  it  comes  into  our  hands,  will  be  the  record, 
by  another  voice  than  Daudet's,  of  a  death  as  peaceful  and  as 
benign  in  all  its  circumstances  as  death  can  be. 

K  is  not  possible  to  discuss  the  character  of  Alphonse 
Daudet  without  some  consideration  of  his  personal  conditions. 
In  every  page  of  his  brilliant,  variegated,  emotional  books,  ever 
trembling  into  te«ars  or  flashing  into  laughter,  the  writer  is 
present  to  the  mind  of  the  instructed  reader.  Few  men  have 
been  born  with  a  keener  appetite  for  life  or  an  aptitude  for 


ALPHONSE    DAUDET.  383 

more  intense  enjoyment.  Daiidet  was  of  the  tribe  of  those 
who,  as  Keats  says,  "  burst  ijoy's  grape  against  their  palate 
fine."  It  is  highly  possible  that,  with  this  temperament  and 
a  southern  habit  of  life,  advancing  years  might  have  tended  to 
exaggerate  in  him  the  tumult  of  the  senses  ;  he  might  have 
become  a  little  gross,  a  little  noisy.  But  fortune  willed  it 
otherwise,  and  this  exquisite  hedonist,  so  amorous  of  life 
and  youth,  was  refined  and  etherialised  by  a  mysterious  and 
wasting  anguish.  It  was  about  the  close  of  1881  that,  while 
engaged  in  writing  "  Sapho,"  Daudet  became  conscious  of 
sudden  thrills  of  agonising  pain  in  his  limbs,  which  attacked 
him  unexpectedly,  and  lacerated  every  part  of  his  frame  in 
turn.  From  this  time  forth  he  was  never  free  from  the  terror 
of  the  pang,  and  he  once  used  a  phrase  regarding  it  which 
awakens  a  vision  of  Prometheus  stretched  on  Caucasus. 
"  La  soufFrance,  chez  moi,"  he  said,  "  c'est  un  oiseau  qui  se 
pose  partout,  tantot  ici,  tantot  la." 

It  will  be  remembered  that,  when  Daudet  published 
"  L'Evang^liste"  in  1883,  he  dedicated  it  to  Charcot.  It  was 
that  great  master  of  diagnosis  who  detected  in  what  the  family 
physician  had  supposed  to  be  neuralgia  the  first  symptoms  of 
that  malady  of  the  spinal  cord  to  which  the  novelist  now 
slowly  succumbed.  The  ravages  of  this  terrible  disease,  while 
they  gradually  affected  more  and  more  completely  his  powers  of 
locomotion,  spared  all  the  functions  of  the  head.  Since  the 
completion  of  *'  Sapho,"  it  is  true,  there  has  been  apparent  a 
flagging  in  Daudet's  constructive  power  ;  but  this  need  not  be 
attributed  to  disease.  In  agility  of  conversation,  in  refinement 
of  style,  in  alertness  and  lucidity  of  mind,  Daudet  showed  to  the 
last  hour  no  observable  decline.  His  courage,  on  the  other 
hand,  his  heroic  resignation  and  patience,  were  qualities  that 
raised  him  to  a  sort  of  moral  sublimity.  They  would  have  done 
credit  to  the  most  placid  of  Northerners,  but  as  the  ornament 
of  a  Proven9al  in  early  middle  life,  the  blood  in  whose  veins 
was  quicksilver,  they  were  exquisite  and  astonishing.  There 
are  not  many  liner  pictures  in  the  cabinet  of  modern  literary 
history  than  that  of  Alphonse  Daudet  waiting  to  be  racked 
with  anguish  from  moment  to  moment,  a  shawl  wrapped 
round  his  poor  knees,  lifting  the  ivory  lines  of  his  face  with 


384  COSMOPOLIS. 

rapture  to  the  beauty  of  a  flower,  or  pouring  from  his  dehcate 
Hps  a  flood  of  wit  and  tenderness  and  enthusiasm.  It  carries 
the  thought  back  to  Scarron,  who  "  souffrit  mille  fois  la  mort 
avant  que  de  perdre  la  vie/'  and  the  modern  instance,  while 
no  less  brave,  is  of  a  rarer  beauty. 

These  physical  considerations  are  so  important,  they  form 
so  essential  a  part  of  our  conception  of  Daudet  and  of  Daudet's 
conception  of  literature,  that  they  cannot  be  passed  over,  even 
in  a  brief  outline  of  his  place  in  the  world  of  writers.  He 
was  not  one  of  those  who  shrink  from  being  contemplated. 
His  work  was  not  objective  as  regarded  his  own  person,  it 
was  intensely  -one  had  almost  said  it  was  exclusively- 
subjective.  Large  portions  of  his  fiction  are  nothing  more 
nor  less  than  selected  autobiography,  and  he  had  no  scruple 
in  letting  this  be  perceived.  He  took  in  later  life  to  writing 
prefaces  to  his  old  novels,  explaining  the  conditions  in  which 
they  were  composed.  He  published  " Trente  Ans  de  Paris" 
in  1887  ;  what  it  was  not  quiet  convenient  that  he  should 
narrate  himself  was  confessed  by  M.  Ernest  Daudet,  in  "Mon 
Frfere  et  Moi."  The  early  writings  of  Alphonse  Daudet,  up  to 
"  Fromont  Jeune  et  Risler  Aine  "  at  least,  resolve  themselves,  it 
is  plain,  into  autobiography.  His  only  long  romance  of  the 
early  period,  *'  Le  Petit  Chose,"  begins  with  the  sentence,  "  Je 
suis  ne  le  13  Mai  18  .  .,  dans  une  ville  du  Languedoc."  So 
speaks  the  hero,  and  presently,  we  calculate  from  facts 
recorded,  that  18  .  .  stands  for  1840.  Well,  Alphonse  Daudet 
was  born  at  Nimes  on  May  31,  1840,  This  changing  of  31 
into  13  is  very  characteristic  ;  an  analogous  alteration  is  often 
the  only  one  which  the  author  makes  in  turning  reality  into  a 
novel. 

The  drawback  of  such  a  practice  is  that,  in  reading  the 
charming  works  of  Alphonse  Daudet's  first  thirty-five  years,  we 
are  divided  in  allegiance  between  the  artist  and  the  man.  This 
is  the  danger  of  the  autobiographical  method  when  carried  to 
so  great  an  extreme,  and  confessed  so  openly.  The  poor 
little  hero  of  "  Petit  Chose,"  flying  from  hfe  tormentors, 
comes  up  to  Paris  in  a  pair  of  indiarubber  goloshes,  having 
no  shoes,  and  the  author  makes  very  happy  and  pathetic  use 
of  this  little  incident.      I   remember,  however,  being  much 


ALPHONSE   DAUDET.  385 

annoyed  (I  hardly  know  why)  by  discovering,  as  1  read 
"  Mon  Frfere  et  Moi,"  that  Alphonse  really  did  come  up  to 
Paris  thus,  in  goloshes,  but  without  shoes.  By  some 
perversity  of  temper,  I  felt  vexed  that  a  real  person  should 
have  plagiarised  from  the  invented  history  of  "  Le  Petit 
Chose,"  and  to  this  day  I  think  it  would  have  been  better  if 
this  piece  of  personal  history  had  not  been  unveiled  by  M. 
Ernest  E)audet.  But  as  a  family  the  Daudets  are  unsurpassed 
in  the  active  way  in  which  they  take  their  musical-box  to 
pieces,  the  result  being  that  we  are  scarcely  sure,  at  last, 
whether  the  music  was  the  primary  object,  or  was  merely 
secondary  to  the  mechanical  ingenuity.  This  is  a  doubt 
which  never  enhances  our  pleasure  in  the  fine  arts. 

The  self-consciousness  which  coloured  all  the  manifestations 
of  the  mind  of  Alphonse  Daudet  had  much  to  do  with  his 
pathos,  his  really  very  remarkable  command  over  our  tears. 
There  is  no  recent  French  writer  with  whom  we  weep  so  easily, 
and  the  reason,  without  doubt,  is  to  be  found  in  his  own  apti- 
tude for  weeping.  If  his  nature  were  harder,  if  he  were  not  so 
sorry  for  them  himself,  we  should  not  be  so  sorry  for  his  crea- 
tions. The  intense  and  sincere  sensibility  of  Daudet  disarms  the 
nerves ;  there  is  no  resisting  his  pathos.  When  he  chooses  to 
melt  his  audience,  he  can  scarcely  be  heard  for  their  sobbing. 
I  am  bound  to  say  that  I  think  he  sometimes  carries  this  sensi- 
bility to  an  illegitimate  extreme  ;  it  makes,  for  instance,  a  great 
part  of  "Jack"  too  painful  for  endurance.  In  this  otherwise 
admirable  book  the  author  becomes  like  the  too-emotional 
attorney,  Haines  Carew,  in  the  "  Bab  Ballads";  he  seems  to 
*Mie  flat  upon  the  floor,  convulsed  with  sympathetic  sob,"  until 
the  reader,  bent  on  pleasure,  "  toddles  off  next  door,"  and  gives 
the  case  to  M.  de  Maupassant  or  M.  Bourget. 

Yet  this  pathetic  sensibility,  if  occasionally  pushed  to  excess, 
has  been  one  of  the  most  vivid  of  the  qualities  which  have 
endeared  Alphonse  Daudet  to  thousands  of  readers.  He  has 
a  sense  of  the  hysterical  sadnevSs  of  life,  the  melancholy  which 
arises  in  the  breast  without  cause  at  some  commonplace 
conjunction  of  incidents,  the  terror  of  vague  future  ill,  the 
groundless  depressions  and  faint  forebodings  which  strike 
men  and  women  like  the  vision  of  a  spectre  at  noonday.     Of 


386  COSMOPOLIS. 

these  neurotic  fallacies  Daudet  is  a  master  ;  he  knows  how  to 
make  us  shudder  with  the  pictures  of  them,  as,  consummately, 
in  ''  Avec  trois  mille  cent  francs/'  Pure  melodious  pathos, 
produced  by  the  careful  balance  of  elements  common  to  all 
human  frailty,  and  harmonised  by  a  beautiful  balance  of 
style,  we  discover  frequently  in  the  ''  Contes  du  Lundi,"  in 
the  Alsatian  stories,  and  everywhere  in  "  jack."  To  the 
last,  a  novel  in  Alphonse  Daudet's  hands  was  apt  to  be, 
what  he  calls  one  of  his  great  books,  **  un  livre  de  piti6,  de 
colere  et  d'ironie,"  and  the  irony  and  anger  were  commonly 
founded  upon  the  pity.  In  particular,  '*  Le  Petit  Chose  "  is  all 
pity  :  the  arrival  of  the  telegram  which  the  boy  is  afraid  to 
deliver,  the  extreme  lachrymosity  of  Jacques,  the  agony  of  the 
pion  in  sound  of  the  keys  of  M.  Viot  (a  species  of  educational 
Mr.  Carker),  the  fate  of  Mme.  Eyssette  taking  refuge  among  her 
stingy  provincial  relations — almost  every  incident  in  this  very 
pretty  book  is  founded  upon  the  exercise  of  slightly  exaggerated 
sensibility.  The  author's  voice  trembles  as  he  tells  the  tale  ; 
when  he  laughs,  as  every  now  and  then  he  does  so  gaily,  we 
give  a  sigh  of  relief,  for  we  were  beginning  to  fear  that  he 
would  break  down  altogether. 

From  this  dangerous  facility  in  telling  a  tale  of  tears  about 
himself  Alphonse  Daudet  was  delivered  by  developing  a  really 
marvellous  talent  for  expatiating  on  the  external  and  decorative 
side  of  life.  Out  of  the  wreckage  of  his  experimental  writings 
he  has  saved  for  us  the  **  Lett  res  de  mon  Moulin  "and 
the  "  Contes  Choisis,"  which  contain,  with  '*  Lc  Petit  Chose," 
all  that  needs  trouble  the  general  reader,  although  the 
amateur  of  literature  examines  with  interest  (and  finds  entirely 
Daudesque)  those  early  volumes  of  verse,  *'  Les  Amoureuses," 
of  1857,  and  *'  La  Double  Conversion,"  of  1861.  But  "  Lettres 
de  mon  Moulint"  is  the  one  youthful  book  of  Alphonse  Daudet 
which  the  most  hurried  student  of  modern  French  literature 
cannot  afford  to  overlook.  In  its  own  way,  and  at  its  best, 
there  is  simply  nothing  that  surpasses  it.  A  short  story  of 
mediaeval  court  life  better  than  "  La  Mule  du  Pape"  has  not 
been  told.  It  is  not  possible  to  point  to  an  idyll  of  pastoral 
adventure  of  the  meditative  class  more  classic  in  its  graceful 
purity  than  "  Les   Etoiles."     As  a  masterpiece  of  picturesque 


ALPHONSE   DAUDET.  ^8 

and  ironic  study  of  the  life  of  elderly  persons  in  a  village, 
"Les  Vieux"  stands  where  "Cranford"  stands,  since  sheer 
perfection  knows  neither  first  nor  last.  There  are  Corsican 
and  Algerian  sketches  in  this  incomparable  volume  ;  but  those 
which  rise  to  the  memory  first,  and  are  most  thoroughly 
characteristic,  are  surely  those  which  deal  with  country  life 
and  legend  in  the  dreamy  heart  of  Provence.  "  Dance  and 
Provengal  song  and  sunburnt  mirth  " — that  is  what  we  recall 
when  we  think  of  the  "  Lettres  de  mon  Moulin." 

From  his  ruined  mill  at  Fortvielle,  "  situated  in  the  valley  of 

the  Rhone,  in  the  very  heart  of  Provence,  on  a  hillside  clothed 

with  pine-trees  and  green  oaks,  the  said  mill,  deserted  for  more 

than  twenty  years   and  incapable  of  grinding,  as  appeareth 

from  the  wild  vines,  mosses,  rosemaries,  and  other  parasitic 

growths  which  climb  to  the  ends  of  its  sails,"    from  this  mill, 

honourably    leased    at    Pamp6rigouste,     in    presence   of  two 

witnesses — Francet  Mamai,  fife-player,  and  Louiset,  called  Le 

Quique,  cross-bearer  to  the  White  Penitents — Alphonse  Daudet 

writes  to  his  friends,  or  records  a  story,  as  the  whim  takes  him 

He  recounts  legends  that  illustrate  the  habits  and  prejudices  of 

the  folks  around.     He  visits  the  poet  Mistral,  he  accompanies 

local  sportsmen  on  their  walks,  he  spends  his  nights  with  the 

customs  officers.     Sometimes,  to  gain  intenser  naivete,  to  get 

closer  still  to  the  heart  of  things,  he  borrows  the  voice  of  a 

^oat,  of  a  partridge,  of  a  butterfly.     And  the  main  object  of  it 

ill!  is  to  render  the  external  impression  of  this  Provenval  life 

more  delicately,  more  radiantly,  more  intimately  than  has  ever 

been  done  before. 

It  is  very  difficult  tu  analyse  the  skill  with  which  Daudet 
contrives  to  produce  this  sense  of  real  things  seen  intensely 
through  the  bright-coloured  atmosphere  uf  his  talent.  His 
economy  of  words  in  the  best  examples  of  this  branch  of  his 
work  is  notable.  The  curious  reader  of  his  little  story,  **  The 
Beacon  of  the  Bloody  .Isles,"  may  ask  himself  how  it  would 
be  possible  to  enhance  the  mysterious  dazzlement  caused  by 
the  emerging  of  the  writer  from  the  dark  winding  stairs  up 
into  the  blaze  of  light  exhibited  above  :    - 

"  En   entrant  j'etais  6bloui.      Ces   cuivres,    ces  (Stains,   ces 
r6flecteurs   de  m6tal  blanc,  ces  murs   de   cristal    boinbe  qui 


388  COSMOPOLIS. 

lournaient  avec-des  grands •cercles  blcuatres,  tout  ce  miroite- 
ment,  tout  ce  cliquetis  de  lumieres,  me  donnait  un  moment  de 
vertige." 

What  could  be  more  masterly  than  that  ?  It  is  said  in  the 
fewest  possible  words,  yet  so  that  an  impression,  in  a  high 
degree  bewildering  and  complex,  is  accurately  presented  to  us. 
Scarcely  less  marvellous  is  the  interior,  in  "  Les  Vieux,"  where, 
under  the  miraculous  influence  of  the  life  of  St.  Irenaeus,  read 
aloud  by  a  little  pensioner  in  a  blue  blouse,  not  the  old  gentle- 
man and  lady  only,  but  the  canaries  in  their  cage,  the  flies  on 
the  pane,  and  all  the  other  elements  of  still  life,  are  plunged  in 
deepest  sleep  at  noon.  And  of  the  fantasia  about  Valence 
oranges  in  the  winter  streets  of  Paris,  and  of  the  scene  in  "  The 
Two  Inns,"  which  everyone  has  praised,  and  of  the  description 
of  the  phantom  visitors  who  come  uninvited  to  supper  with  M. 
Majesty,  and  of  the  series  of  idyllic  vignettes  "en  Camargue," 
what  shall  be  said? — the  enumeration  of  Alphonse  Daudet's 
successes  in  this  direction  becomes  a  mere  catalogue.  It  is 
particularly  to  be  observed  that,  with  his  incessant  verbal 
invention,  we  are  conscious  of  no  strain  after  effect.  Daudet 
is  never  pretentious,  and  it  requires  some  concentration  of 
mind,  some  going  backward  over  the  steps  of  his  sentences,  to 
perceive  what  a  magic  of  continual  buoyancy  it  is  that  has 
carried  us  along  with  so  swift  a  precision. 

When  Alphonse  Daudet  began  to  write  in  Paris,  a  new  set 
of  critical  ideas  and  creative  aspirations  were  setting  the  young 
m^n  in  motion.  In  poetry,  the  example  of  Baudelaire  in 
noting  iinprerjsions,  and  in  widening  the  artistic  repertory,  was 
having  an  electrical  influence  ;  while  Daudet  and  M.  Zola,  in 
conjunction  with  those  elder  brethren  of  theirs,  Flaubert  and 
the  Goncourts,  were  endeavouring  to  make  of  the  practice  of 
novel-writing  something  more  solid,  brilliant,  and  exact  than 
had  been  attempted  before.  This  is  no  place  to  touch  on 
what  will  eventually  occupy  the  historian  of  literature, 
Alphonse  Daudet's  place  in  the  ranks  of  the  naturalists.  But 
it  is  important  to  note  that  he  possessed  one  quality  denied 
to  his  distinguished  friends,  denied  even  to  Flaubert — namely, 
his  graceful  rapidity.  As  M.  Jules  Claretie  said  of  him  the 
other  day,  he  was  **  un   rcaliste  aile,"  and  he  was  preserved 


ALPHONSE  DAUDET.  38c, 

from  the  dulness  and  pedestrian  jog-trot  of  prosy  naturalism 
by  this  winged  lightness  of  his,  this  agility  in  sensation,  and 
illuminating  promptitude  in  expression.  His  hand  was 
always  light,  among  the  tribe  of  those  who  never  knew  when 
to  stop.  Daudet  could  not  fall  into  the  error  of  Zola  in  his 
"  sjrmphonies  of  odours,"  nor  destroy  the  vitality  of  a  study 
like  "  Ch6rie/'  as  Edmond  de  Goncourt  did,  by  the  pedantic 
superfetation  of  documentary  evidence.  He  was  a  creature  of 
the  sun  and  wind,  like  the  cicala  that  the  Greek  poets  sung  of, 
intoxicated  with  a  dewdrop,  and  flinging  itself  impetuously 
into  the  air,  while  it  struck  melody  from  its  wings  with  its  own 
flying  feet. 

Thus  palpitating  with  observation,  thus,  as  he  himself  said, 
"  hypnotist  par  la  r6alit6,"  filled  to  the  brim  of  his  quivering 
nature  by  the  twin  sources  of  pictorial  and  of  moral  sensitive- 
ness, seeing  and  feeling  with  almost  abnormal  intensity,  his 
sails  puffed  out  with  the  pride  of  life  and  the  glory  of  visual 
sensation,  Daudet  prepared  himself  by  a  myriad  experiments 
for  the  true  business  of  his  career.  After  a  somewhat  lengthy 
and  arduous  apprenticeship  as  an  observer  of  nature  and  of 
himself,  armed  with  those  little  green  books  of  notes,  those 
"cahiers"  of  which  we  have  heard  so  much,  he  set  out  to  be 
a  great  historian  of  French  manners  in  the  second  half  of  the 
nineteenth  century.  In  1876  he  made  a  notable  sensation  with 
**  Fromont  Jeune  et  Risler  Ain6,"  and,  almost  simultaneously, 
with  "Jack."  But  these  were  immediately  excelled  by  **  Lc 
Nabab"  (1S78),  a  trenchant  satire  of  the  Second  Empire  and 
the  Third  Republic.  Then  followed,  in  a  very  different  key, 
that  extremely  delicate  study  of  the  dynastic  idea  in  bank- 
ruptcy, which  he  called  "Les  Rois  en  Exil"  (1^79).  Daudet 
had  built  up  an  edifice  of  fiction  about  his  old  patron,  the 
Due  de  Morny,  in  "Le  Nabab"  ;  he  returned  to  politics  in 
''Numa  Roumestan  "  (1881),  and  crystallised  his  invention 
round  the  legend  of  Gambetta.  This  book,  in  my  judgment, 
marked  the  apogee  of  Alphonse  Daudet's  genius  ;  never  again, 
so  it  seems  to  me,  did  he  write  a  novel  quite  so  large, 
quite  so  masterly  in  all  its  parts,  as  "Numa  Roumestan." 
But  "  L'Evang61iste,"  1883,  a  satiric  picture  of  fanatical 
Protestantism,  had   brilliant   parts,  and  a  great  simplicity  of 


390  COSMOPOLIS. 

action  ;  while  in  "Sapho,"  1884,  which  M.  Jules  Lemaitre  has 
called  "  simplement  la  *  Manon  Lescaut '  de  ce  sifecle/'  Daudet 
produced  an  elaborate  study  of  that  obsession  of  the  feminine 
which  is  so  dear  to  our  Gallic  neighbours.  The  consensus  of 
French  criticism,  I  think,  puts  **  Sapho,"  where  I  venture  to 
put  ''Numa  Roumestan,"  at  the  head  of  Daudet's  novels. 
After  this  came  '' L'lmmortel"  (1888),  "Rose  et  Ninette" 
(1892),  even  later  stories,  never  quite  without  charm,  but 
steadily  declining  in  imagination  and  vitality,  so  that  the  books 
on  which  Daudet  bases  his  claim  to  be  regarded  as  a  great 
novelist  are  seven,  and  they  range  from  "Jack"  to  "Sapho," 
culminating,  as  1  must  obstinately  hold,  in  "  Numa  Roumestan." 

In  looking  over  these  seven  extraordinary  books,  which  we 
read  in  succession  at  their  first  appearance  with  an  enthusiasm 
which  may  have  carried  the  critical  faculty  away,  we  are 
conscious  of  the  brilliant  and  solid  effect  which  they  still 
produce.  They  stand  midway  between  tlie  rigidly  naturalistic 
and  the  consciously  psychological  sets  of  novels  which  France 
has  seen  flourish  during  the  last  twenty-five  years,  and  on  the 
whole,  perhaps,  they  are  standing  the  test  of  time  better  than 
either.  The  moment  we  were  fairly  launched,  so  long  ago, 
upon  the  narrative  of  "Fromont  Jeune  et  Risler  Ain6";  as  soon 
as  we  became  acquainted  with  "  the  blooming  and  sonorous 
Delobelle,"  ^s  Mr.  Henry  James  so  happily  calls  him ;  when, 
again,  a  very  little  later,  we  were  introduced  to  all  the  flatulent 
humbugs  of  the  Maison  Moronval  in  "Jack,"  we  acknow- 
ledged that  here  was  come  at  last  a  great  French  novelist  with 
whom  the  Anglo-Saxon  reader  could  commune  with  unspeak- 
able delight.  This  meridional^  who  cared  so  little  for  England, 
who  could  never  read  an  English  sentence,  seemed  from  a 
certain  limited  point  of  view  to  run  in  the  very  channel  of 
British  fiction.  He  has  been  called  (alas  !  poor  man,  it  was  a 
thorn  in  his  flesh  !)  the  French  Dickens,  but  he  has  aspects  in 
which  he  seems  Mrs.  Gaskell  and  Anthony  Trollope  as  well, 
even  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  and  Rudyard  Kipling.  A  whole 
repertory  of  such  parallelisms  might  be  drawn  out,  if  we 
examined  Daudet  not  wisely  but  too  well. 

The  truth   seems  to  be  that — with  all  his  violent  Southern 
colour  and  temperament,  his  pathos,  his  humour — his  prefer- 


ALPHONSE   DAUDET.  39I 

ence  tor  the  extravagant  and  superficial  parts  of  character  and 
conduct  had  a  greater  resemblance  to  the  English  than  to  the 
French  tradition  of  invented  narrative.  This  is  true  of  works 
written  before  Alphonse  Daudet  could  possibly  have  touched 
an  English  story.  We  talk  of  his  affinity  to  Dickens,  but  that 
relation  is  much  more  strongly  marked  in  "  Le  Petit  Chose  " 
than  in  any  of  Daudet's  mature  works.  In  the  very  beginning 
of  that  story,  the  formidable  rage  of  M.  Eyssette,  and  the 
episode  of  Annou  who  marries  in  desperation  because  she 
has  lost  her  "  place,"  are  more  like  pure  Dickens  than 
anything  in  "Fromont  jeune."  It  is  quite  certain,  from 
what  he  has  protested  over  and  over  again  (and  did  he 
not  fight  poor  M.  Albert  Delpit  that  he  might  seal  his  protest 
in  blood  ?),  that  Daudet's  knowledge  of  all  English  literature, 
the  works  of  Dickens  included,  was  extremely  exiguous.  You 
could  probably  have  drawn  it  through  the  eye  of  a  needle 
without  crushing  it.  It  remains  true,  none  the  less,  that  in 
his  idea  of  how  to  entertain  by  a  novel,  how  to  write  a 
thrilling  story  of  pity,  anger,  and  irony,  he  came  much  nearer 
than  any  other  Frenchman  to  the  English  standpoint.  When 
we  add  to  this  the  really  extraordinary  chastity  and  delicacy  of 
his  language,  the  tact  with  which,  even  in  a  book  like  "  Sapho," 
he  avoids  all  occasion  of  offence,  and  has  therefore  been  a 
well  of  pure  and  safe  delight  to  thousands  of  young  English- 
Avomen,  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  the  non-critical  class 
of  British  readers  look  upon  Alphonse  Daudet  as  the  most 
^sympathetic  of  Continental  novelists.  He  is  certainly  the 
one  who  offers  them  the  smallest  chance  of  springes  and 
pitfalls  along  their  innocent  pathway. 

In    his  great  novels,   the    art   of    Daudet   is   seen   in   his 

iirrangement  and  adaptation  of  things  that  he  has  experienced, 

not  in  his  invention.     He  was  never  happy  when  he  detached 

himself  from  the  thing  absolutely  observed  and  noted.     For 

most  readers,  I  suppose,  the  later  chapters  of  **  Le  Petit  Chose  " 

are  ruined  by  the  absurd  episode  of  Irma  Borel,  the  Creole,  a 

figure  laboriously  invented  d  la  Paul  de  Kock,  with   no  faint 

knowledge   of    any    actual    prototype.      It   is  interesting    to 

compare    this   failure  with    the  solid    success  of  the  portrait 

of  Sapho  fifteen  years  later,  when  Daudet  had  made  himself 


392  COSMOPOLIS. 

acquainted  with  this  type  of  woman,  and  had  noted  hei 
characteristics  with  his  mature  clairvoyance.  Even  in  his  more 
purely  fantastic  creations,  surely,  the  difference  between  what 
Daudet  has  seen  and  has  not  seen  is  instantly  felt.  What  a 
distinction  there  is  between  Tartarin  in  Tarascon,  in  Algeria, 
on  the  Righi — where  Daudet  had  accompanied  him — and, 
Tartarin  in  the  South  Seas,  where  his  creator  had  to  trust  to 
books  and  fancy  !  I  am  inclined  to  push  this  so  far  as  even 
to  question  the  value  of  "  Wood's  Town,"  a  story  which  many 
admirers  of  Daudet  have  signalled  for  special  eulogy.  This  is 
a  tale  of  a  peninsula  somewhere  in  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  where 
a  tropic  city  is  built,  at  first  with  success,  but  only  to  be 
presently  overwhelmed  by  the  onset  of  the  virgin  forest,  which 
defies  all  the  exertions  of  the  inhabitants ;  lianas  are  flung 
from  roof  to  roof,  the  municipal  buildings  are  roped  to  one 
another  by  chains  of  prickly-pear,  yuccas  pierce  the  floors  with 
their  spines,  and  fig-trees  rend  the  walls  apart ;  at  last  the 
population  has  to  take  flight  in  ships,  the  masts  of  which  are 
already  like  forest-trees,  so  matted  are  they  with  parasitic 
vegetation.  The  whole  forms  a  fine  piece  of  melodramatic 
extravagance,  but  one  feels  what  an  infinitely  truer,  and, 
therefore,  infinitely  more  vivid  picture  of  such  a  scene  Mr. 
Cable  could  have  written  in  the  days  when  he  was  still 
interested  in  "  Les  Grandissimes  "  and  "  Mme.  Delphine. " 

In  all  the  creations  of  Daudet,  as  we  have  said,  the  fountain 
of  tears  lies  very  close  to  the  surface.  There  is,  however,  one 
eminent  exception,  and  it  is  possible  that  this,  in  its  sunny 
gaiety,  its  unruffled  high  spirits,  may  eventually  outlast  the 
remainder.  All  his  life  through,  Daudet  was  fascinated  by  the 
mirthful  side  of  southern  exaggeration.  He  set  himself  to 
invent  a  figure  which  should  unite  all  the  qualities  of  the 
mt^ridionalf  a  being  in  whom  the  hallucination  of  adventurous 
experiences  should  be  carried  to  its  drollest  excess.  The  result 
was  pure  frolic  :  the  "  Prodigious  Feats  of  Tartarin  de 
Tarascon  "  (1872).  Tartarin  the  boaster,  the  mighty  hunter 
before  the  Lord,  "  le  roi  des  chasseurs  de  casquettes,"  has 
bragged  so  long  and  so  loudly  that  even  Tarascon  demands 
confirmation.  And  so  he  sets  forth,  and  at  Algiers  he  shoots  a 
lion — an  old,  tame,  blind  lion  that  has  been  taught  to  hold 


ALPHONSE    DAFDET.  393 

a  platter  in  its  mouth,  and  beg  at  the  doors  of  mosques.  He 
returns  to  Tarascon,  still  boasting,  and  brings  with  him  a 
mangy  camel,  "  which  has  seen  me  shoot  all  my  lions."  He 
reposes  again  on  the  confidence  of  Tarascon.  Then,  in 
1885,  Tartarin  sets  forth  anew,  this  time  to  climb  the  Alps, 
being  President  of  the  Tarascon  Alpine  Club,  and  once 
more  forced  to  prove  his  prowess.  Glorious  are  his  incredible 
ascents  and  accidental  adventures.  After  a  thousand  farcical 
drolleries,  gulled  and  gulling,  back  he  comes  to  Tarascon, 
with  its  blinding  dust,  and  its  blinding  sunlight,  to  the 
country  where  it  is  too  bright  and  too  hot  to  attempt  to 
tell  the  truth.  Still  later,  Daudet  made  an  effort  to  carry 
a  colony  from  Tarascon  to  the  shores  of  the  Pacific  Ocean  ; 
but  this  time  he  was  less  vivacious  and  more  cynical.  For 
sheer  fun  and  merriment,  the  two  earlier  books  about  Tartarin 
remain,  however,  unexcelled.  There  is  nothing  else  like 
them  in  recent  French  literature,  and  those  who  object  to 
Daudet's  other  stories  here  confess  themselves  disarmed. 
Tarascon  itself,  the  little  dry  town  on  the  Rhone,  meanwhile 
accentuates  the  joke  and  adds  to  it  by  an  increasing  exasper- 
ation against  the  great  man  of  letters  who  has  made  its 
tragicomical  exaltations  so  ridiculous  and  famous. 

It  is  too  early  to  attempt  to  fix  the  position  which  Alphonse 
Daudet  will  hold  in  French  literature.  In  spite  of  the 
extraordinary  professional  manifestation  produced  imme- 
diately after  his  death  in  Paris,  it  is  easy  to  see  that  he  does 
not  stand  in  the  affections  of  unprejudiced  readers  quite  where 
he  did.  In  1888  it  would  have  required  considerable  courage 
to  suggest  that  Daudet  was  not  in  the  very  first  rank  of  novel- 
writers  ;  in  1898,  even  the  special  pleading  of  friendship 
scarcely  urges  so  much  as  this.  It  is  inevitable,  if  we  subject 
Daudet  to  the  only  test  which  suits  his  very  splendid  and 
honourable  career,  that  we  should  hesitate  in  placing  him  with 
the  great  creative  minds.  His  beautiful  talent  is  dwarfed  when 
we  compare  it  with  Balzac,  with  Tolstoi,  with  Flaubert,  even 
with  Tourgcnieff  and  Dickens.  He  is  vivacious,  brilliant, 
pathetic,  exuberant,  but  he  is  not  subtle  ;  his  gifts  are  on  the 
surface.  He  observes  rather  than  imagines  ;  he  belongs  to 
the  fascinating  but  too  often   ephemeral  class  of  writers  who 


394  COSMOPOLIS. 

manufacture  types,  and  develop  what  the  Elizabethans  used 
to  call  "  humours."  And  this  he  does,  not  by  an  exercise  of 
fancy,  not  by  a  penetrating  flash  of  intuition,  but  as  a  "realist," 
as  one  who  depends  on  little  green  books  of  notes,  and 
docketted  bundles  of  "  pieces  justificatives." 

But  we  need  not  be  ungracious  and  dwell  on  these  short- 
comings in  a  genius  so  charming,  so  intimately  designed  to 
please.  Whether  his  figures  were  invented  or  noted,  they  live 
vividly  in  our  memories.  Who  wnll  forget  the  cunning,  timid 
Jansoulet  as  he  came  out  of  Tunis  to  seek  his  fortune  in  Paris  ? 
Who  the  turbulent  Numa  Roumestan,  or  that  barber's  block, 
the  handsome  Valmajour,  with  his  languishing  airs  and  his 
tambourine  ?  Who  Queen  Fred6rique  when  she  discovers 
that  the  diamonds  of  lllyria  are  paste  ?  and  who  Mme.  Ebsen 
in  her  final  interview  with  Eline  ?  The  love  of  life,  of  light, 
of  all  beautiful  things,  of  all  human  creations,  illuminates  the 
books  of  Alphonse  Daudet.  The  only  thing  he  hated  was  the 
horrible  little  octopus- woman,  the  Fanny  Legrand  or  Sidonie 
Chfebe,  who  has  no  other  object  or  function  than  to  wreck  the 
lives  of  weak  young  men.  To  her,  perhaps,  he  is  cruel  ;  she 
was  hardly  worth  his  steel.  But  everything  else  he  loves ; 
even  while  he  laughs  at  Tarascon  he  loves  it ;  and  in  an  age 
when  the  cynical  and  the  sinister  take  so  wide  a  possession  of 
literature,  our  thanks  are  eternally  due  to  a  man  who  built  up 
for  us  a  world  of  hope  and  light  and  benignity. 

Edmund  Gosse. 


THE   GLOBE   AND   THE    ISLAND. 


London,  January  21. 

Whew  !  In  the  comparatively  quiet  times  of  five-and-thirty 
years  ago,  old  "  Omar  "  FitzGerald  sighed  out  the  wish  that 
we  were  "  a  little  unambitious,  peaceful,  trading  nation,  like — 
the  Dutch  ! "  What  would  he  say  to-day,  I  wonder  ?  Open 
a  map  of  the  world,  shut  your  eyes,  and  put  down  your  finger 
upon  it.  The  odds  are  heavy  that  you  find  yourself  pointing 
to  a  country  where  the  British  Empire  has  a  tough  job  on 
hand.  Renter's  Agency  has  become  a  Cassandra :  the  illus- 
trated weeklies  are  a  cemetery  with  their  rows  of  portraits  of 
dead  "officer-boys";  the  Continental  journals  are  croaking 
like  expectant  crows  ;  and — the  little  red  flags  are  creeping 
over  the  big  map  in  Stanford's  window.  The  grim  Indian 
Frontier  problem  awaits  us  in  the  spring.  The  plague  has 
broken  out  again.  The  tribes  are  up  on  the  route  of  Alexander 
the  Great's  fatal  journey  through  the  gateway  of  India  known 
as  the  Makran,  and,  of  course,  as  is  always  the  first  thing  to 
happen,  an  Englishman  has  been  murdered.  All  our  hopes  of 
helping  Egypt  through  Uganda  are  dashed  to  the  ground  for 
the  present.  Our  Soudanese  troops  have  mutinied  and  turned 
our  own  Maxims  on  us  ;  Thruston,  Wilson,  Macdonald,  Scoit, 
Fielden,  and  Pilkington — all  men  doing  splendid  work  for 
England  and  civilisation — have  been  killed  ;  troops  are  hurry- 
ing from  India  to  save  what  remains  ;  the  railway  is  postponed; 
Uganda  has  to  be  begun  again.  In  Egypt  the  Anglo-Egyptian 
forces  are  still  in  a  critical  situation,  if  the  Khalifa  advances  ; 
the  French  have  defied  our  warning  about  the  Nile  ;  they  are 
preparing  to  raise  Abyssinia  against  us  ;  we  have  a  great  battle 


396  COSMOPOLIS. 

with  the  Dervishes  before  us.  In  the  Far  East  we  are  at 
grips  with  Russia,  and  the  end  is  by  no  means  in  sight. 
The  German  Emperor  has  just  sharply  contradicted  the  report 
that  he  would  visit  the  Queen  at  Cowes.  Major  Lugard  has 
left  for  Lagos  with  a  number  of  officers,  which  is  a  sure 
presage  of  fighting  there.  Any  day  may  show  that  we  have 
failed  to  come  to  a  peaceful  arrangement  with  France  in 
West  Africa.  The  two  candidates  for  the  Presidency  of  the 
Transvaal  find  denunciation  of  England  the  best  net  to  catch 
the  burghers'  pastoral  votes.  Well,  it  is  a  black  picture  ?  Not 
at  all.  It  is  the  bitter  gentian  in  the  tonic  that  we  needed. 
We  have  been  fat  too  long,  and  lazy  too  long,  and  rich  too 
long,  and  we  have  forgotten  how  our  fathers  won  what  we 
enjoy.  A  few  young  men  shot  or  speared  or  fever-slain  in 
tropics  or  desert,  a  few  telegrams,  a  few  leading  articles,  and 
a  few  obituary  portraits  on  a  Saturday — that  has  become  our 
idea  of  the  cost  of  Empire.  Now  we  must  do  something. 
Already  the  British  lion  is  stretching  himself  and  growling 
softly.  The  little  bunch  at  the  end  of  his  tail  is  twitching. 
When  he  springs,  our  host  of  amiable  critics  will  be  reminded 
of  something  they  had  forgotten.  Welcome,  this  encircling 
danger.     "  Lest  we  forget "  ?     No — lest  they  forget  ! 


«  * 


Nothing  has  occurred  during  the  past  month  to  discredit  the 
view  I  expressed  here,  that  the  seizure  of  Kiao-chao  was  not 
made  in  accordance  with  an  understanding  between  Germany 
and  Russia.  On  the  contrary,  there  is  every  reason  to  be  con- 
vinced now  that  the  German  Emperor  was  severely  exercised 
by  the  urgent  necessity  of  smoothing  away  Russian  annoyance 
at  his  coup.  Moreover,  German  enthusiasm  has  cooled  off  to 
a^  remarkable  degree.  The  practical  German  people  have 
begun  to  ask  for  a  sight  of  the  debit  and  credit  estimate : 
they  wish  to  know  what  Kiao-chao  is  going  to  cost, 
and  what,  per  contra,  it  is  going  to  bring  in.  It  will  cost  a 
good  deal,  that  is  certain,  and  the  additional  subsidy  of 
1,500,000  marks  to  the  Nord  Deutscher  Lloyd,  which  has  already 
eaten  up  large  sums  by  the  losses  on  its  China  trade,  is  but  ar 
small  beginning.     Nobody,  on  the  other  hand,  has  succeeded 


THE  GLOBE  AND  THE   ISLAND.  397 

in  pointing  out  just  where  the  profits  are  to  come  from. 
Futhermore,  Prince  Bismarck  has  uttered  one  of  his  familiar 
comments  upon  his  old  master's  policy  : — 

A  Geiinan  Government  [he  says]  sliould  only  undertake  transmarine 
enterprises  when  such  a  course  appears  to  be  absolutely  justilled  by  the 
material  interests  of  the  Empire,  and  when  certain  advantages  are  in  pro- 
spect without  a  disproportionately  great  risk.  Nothing  would  be  so  utterly 
inconsistent  with  the  interests  of  the  (ierman  Empire  as  to  embark  upon 
rash  and  adventurous  enterprises,  solely  ou  the  ground  of  the  feeling  that 
Cicrmany  ought  to  have  a  linger  in  every  pie. 

Finally,  the  organ  of  the  Clerical  party — the  party  whom, 
since  they  hold  the  casting  vote  in  the  Reichstag,  the  German 
Emperor  was  particularly  anxious  to  win  over  to  the  support 
of  his  Navy  Bill  -are  not  precisely  reciprocating  his  aflfec- 
lionate  concern.  Indeed,  they  are  quoting  with  approval 
certain  maxims  of  Confucius,  with  a  suggestion  that  possibly 
these  may  apply  to  somebody  in  Germany  at  this  moment. 
For  example,  the  following  : — 

A  man  of  weight  blushes  in  fear  at  the  thought  that  the  echo  of  his 
words  may  be  louder  than  the  fame  of  his  deeds. 

The  wise  man  is  overcome  with  shame  at  the  loud  and  extravagant 
clamour  of  words,  at  vain  and  boastful  behnviour,  and  at  exaggerated 
demands  for  slavish  obedience. 

Xoisy  pageants,  jwnip  which  has  only  a  tieeting  influence  upon  the 
senses,  and  scenic  effects,  have  never  contributed  much  to  the  happiness 
of  nations. 

And,  curiously  enough,  these  admirable  apothegms  are 
securing  wide  Circulation  in  the  German  Press.  Meanwhile, 
Prince  Henry  is  safely  proceeding  on  his  voyage  east- 
ward, from  one  British  coaling  station  to  another,  the 
Dvufschland,  unfortunately  incapable  of  carrying  suSicient 
coal,  being  towed  by  her  smaller  consort.  In  fact,  the 
German  gilt  seems  to  be  coming  off  the  Chinese  gingerbread. 

Russia  will  have  been  the  more  ready  to  come  to  terms 
with  Germany,  as  she  has  plenty  of  her  own  affairs  in  the  East 
to  think  about  just  now.  Of  course  she  did  not  desire  to 
occupy  Port  Arthur  at  this  moment.  Everything  was  prepared 
for  this  place,  like  so  many  others,  to  pass  quietly  under  her 
sway  at  the  right  moment  subsequently,  and  when  her 
hand  was  forced  by  Germany,  she  endeavoured  to  mitigate  the 
significance  of  her  action  by  blandly  assuring  the  world  that 

her  occupation  was  only  temporary.     A  cynical  world,  how- 
yoi,.  jx.— N->.  x^vi  ('. 


39^  COSMOPOLIS. 

ever,  perhaps  remembering  the  fortification  of  Batum  in 
flagrant  defiance  of  the  Treaty  of  Berlin,  was  not  impressed  by 
this  assurance,  and  the  action  of  Great  Britain  has  really 
placed  Russia  in  the  most  delicate  and  difficult  position  in 
which  she  has  found  herself  for  many  years.  I  have  criticised 
the  Foreign  Office  so  freely  and  so  monotonously  for  so  long 
that  it  is  a  singular  pleasure  to  be  able  to  pay  it  one's  humble 
compliment ;  and  certainly,  with  one  proviso  to  be  mentioned 
later,  Lord  Salisbury's  action  in  this  instance  has  been  every- 
thing that  an  Englishman  knowing  the  Far  East  could  desire. 
His  policy  was  expressed  by  Mr.  Balfour  in  a  speech  at 
Manchester,  in  words  which  must  be  exactly  quoted  : — 

Our  interests  there  are  commercial  and  trading  interests,  and  arc  not 
territorial  interests.  And  the  iirst  deduction  I  draw  from  that  is  that  terri- 
tory, in  so  far  as  it  is  not  necessary  to  supply  a  base  for  possible  warlike 
operations,  is  a  disadvantage  rather  than  an  advantage,  for  it  carries  with 
it  responsibilities,  carries  with  it  duties,  carries  with  it,  may  be,  an  expen- 
diture in  money,  and,  what  is  more  important  to  us,  carries  with  it  an 
expenditure  in  men.  The  second  principle  I  draw  from  it  is  this,  that 
inasmuch  as  our  interest  in  the  external  trade  of  China  is  80  per  cent,  ot 
the  whole  trade  of  the  rest  of  the  world  put  together — 80  per  cent,  of  the 
trade  of  all  the  other  nations  added  together — we  have  a  special  claim  to 
see  that  the  policy  of  that  country  is  not  directed  towards  the  discourage- 
ment of  foreign  trade.  Let  me  point  out,  in  the  third  place,  that  by  the 
very  traditions  of  our  policy,  by  the  deepest  traditions  of  our  policy, 
we  are  precluded — and  I  am  j^lad  to  think  that  we  are  precluded — 
from  using  any  trading  privilege  granted  to  us  as  a  weapon  for  excluding 
rivals.  If  we  ask  for  freedom  to  trade,  we  do  not  mean  freedom  to 
trade  for  Britain  alone  ;  we  mean  freedom  of  trade  for  all  the  w^orld 
alike.  And  note,  therefore,  that  there  are  two  ways,  and  two  ways  alone, 
so  far  as  I  know,  by  which  our  trading  interests — our  sole  interests — in 
China  can  be  interfered  with.  The  most  important  of  these  is  by  the 
possible  pressure  on  the  Chinese  Government  by  a  foreign  Government  to 
make  regulations  adverse  to  us  and  favourable  to  them.  In  other  words, 
to  destroy  that  equality  of  opportunity  which  is  all  that  we  can  claim,  but 
which  we  do  claim.  The  second  method  by  which  I  can  imagine  our  in- 
terest being  interfered  with  might,  indeed,  have  less  serious  consequences, 
but  it  is  not  to  be  neglected.  I  do  not  think  it  probable,  but  we  can 
imagine  it  as  possible,  that  foreign  countries  with  protectionist  traditions 
might  dot  the  coast  of  China  with  stations  over  which  they  had  complete 
control,  and  through  which  they  would  not  permit  the  trade  of  the  world 
freely  to  permeate ;  where  they  would  put  up  Customs  barriers,  or  some- 
thing equivalent  to  Customs  barriers,  hostile  to  others  and  favourable  to 
themselves.  Now  those  are  the  ways  in  which  I  think  it  possible  that  our 
interest  in  China  might  be  adversely  affected  ;  but  depend  upon  it  that 
the  Government  will  do  their  best  to  see  that  in  neither  of  these  ways  will 
the  trade  of  this  countn^  be  injured, 


THE    GLOBE   AND    THE   ISLAND.  399 

Parenthetically  I  may  point  out  that  Mr.  Balfour's  statement 
above,  by  an  evident  slip  of  the  tongue,  puts  the  statistics  of 
British  trade  with  China  upside  down,  and,  as  these  have  been 
incorrectly  stated  in  many  quarters,  the  exact  figures  may  be 
here  set  down.  The  total  foreign  trade  of  China  for  1896  was 
333,671,415  Haikwan,  or  Customs,  iaels,  the  gold-price  of  this 
averaging  for  the  year  3s.  4d.  Thus,  in  sterling,  Chinese  trade 
with  the  whole  outside  world  amounted  to  ;^55,6i  1,902.  Of 
this  sum,  the  trade  with  Great  Britain  and  British  possessions 
was  235,628,226  Uiels,  or  ;^'39,27i,37i  ;  almost  exactly  70  per 
cent.  All  other  Western  nations  traded  with  China  during  18  ^6 
to  the  total  amount  of  67,698,692  /^^r/s,  or  ;^'i  1,283,115,  while 
British  trade  alone,  amounting  to  ;^'39, 27 1,371,  was  three  times 
iiud  a  halj  as  much  as  all  our  Western  rivals  put  together. 

Mr.  Balfour's  declaration,  translated  into  terms  of  the 
moment,  means,  of  course,  that  Russia  will  not  be  allowed  by 
us  to  close  Port  Arthur,  nor  Germany  Kiao-chao,  against  the 
trade  or  the  navies  of  the  world.  Sir  Michael  Hicks-Beach, 
the  most  outspoken  member  of  the  Government,  added  to  it 
something  which,  if  we  were  not  talking  of  diplomacy,  would 
be  called  a  threat.     He  said  : — 

\Vc  do  not  regard  China  as  a  place  for  conquest  or  acquisition  by  any 
Kiiropean  or  other  Power.  We  look  upon  it  as  the  most  hopeful  place  of 
the  future  for  the  commerce  of  our  country  and  the  commerce  of  tlie 
world  at  large ;  and  the  Government  are  absolutely  determined,  at 
whatever  cost,  even — and  I  wish  to  speak  plainly — if  necessaiT,  at  the  cost 
of  war,  that  this  door  shall  not  be  shut. 

Finally,  Mr.  Chamberlain,  who  also  has  never  failed  to  have 
the  courage  of  his  opinions,  has  made  his  own  statement  of 
British  policy  : — 

I  hold  that  we  have  a  threefold  duty.  \\\  the  first  place,  to  keep  what 
rijjhtly  belongs  to  us.  In  the  second  place,  if  I  may  use  a  very  admirable 
phrase  of  Lord  Rosebcr\''s,  to  "  peg  out  claims  for  posterity  "  ;  and,  in  the 
third  place,  if  anyone  tries  to  "  rush  "  those  claims,  gently  to  prevent  them. 

The  above  utterances,  taken  in  conjunction  with  the  fact 
that  the  Government  will  ask  Parliament  in  the  coming 
Session  for  an  increase  of  15,000  men  for  the  Army,  5,000  men 
for  the  Navy,  and  a  considerable  number  of  new  ships,  and 
that  the  Illusirious  and  the  Hannibal^  14,900  ton  battleships, 
two  of  the  most  powerful  vessels  in  the  world,  are  to  be 


400  COSMOPOLIS. 

immediately  commissioned,  leave  happily  no  doubt  as  to  th 
policy  of  the  country.  In  this  connection,  too,  it  is  desirabl 
to  call  attention  to  Lord  Wolseley's  declaration — 

that  if  Her  Majesty's  Government  declared  war  to-morrow  there  would 
be  ready,  complete  to  the  merest  detail,  on  the  quays  of  England,  two  full 
army  corps,  ready,  as  British  soldiers  always  had  been,  to  do  their  duty 
before  the  navy  could  provide  the  ships  to  carry  them  across  the  seas,  and 
those  army  corps  would  be  composed  of  the  finest  men,  better  equipped 
and  better  drilled  than  any  that  ever  left  our  shores. 

Lord  Salisbury,  we  should  also  remember,  h;is  taken  his 
stand  upon  rights  absolutely  accorded  by  China  to  Great 
Britain  by  the  Treaty  of  Tientsin,  signed  on  June  26,  1858, 
Article  LIV.  of  which  reads  as  follows  : — 

It  is  hereby  expressly  stipulated  that  the  British  (iovernmcnt  and  its 
subjects  will  be  allowed  free  and  equal  participation  in  all  privileges, 
immunities,  and  advantages  that  may  have  been,  or  may  be  hereafter, 
granted  by  His  Majesty  the  Kmperor  of  China  to  the  Government  or 
subjects  of  any  other  nation. 


«   « 


This  policy  has  two  immediate  results.  First,  it  ranges  Japan 
of  necessity  upon  our  side,  and  what  that  means  may  be  judged 
from  the  facts  about  the  Japanese  army  and  navy  given  in 
another  part  of  this  article.  Second,  and  in  my  opinion  of 
even  greater  importance,  it  has  won  for  us  the  sympathy  of 
America,  which  would  undoubtedly— indeed,  inevitably — bring 
us  American  support  if  the  worst  came.  The  Xeiv  York  Herald 
at  once  said,  "  Americans  know  well  where  American  interests 
lie,"  pointing  out  that,  whereas  Germany,  Russia,  and  France 
would  each  set  up  a  monopoly  for  its  own  behoof,  England 
would  set  up  free  trade,  admitting  American  products  as  freely 
as  English.  ThcXcw  York  Times^  calling  it  a  good  and  amiable 
declaration,  and  urging  the  Administration  to  assure  England 
that  she  has  the  entire  and  hearty  approval  of  the  United 
States,  adds  :— "  In  the  position  now  taken  up,  Great  Britain 
is  not  the  champion  of  British  interests  alone.  She  is  the 
champion  of  civilisation  and  humanity,  and  deserves  the 
support  of  all  mankind,  especially  of  the  United  States.  Our 
interests  in  the  East  are  the  same  as  hers."  And  TAtf  World 
declares  that  the  protest  of  England  w411  "  be  endorsed  by  the 
conscience  of  the  civilised  world." 

In  acts  as  well  as  in  words  the  British  Government  put  its 


THE  GLOBE   AND  THE   ISLAND.  4OI 

foot  down.  Not  only  did  Russia  demand  the  dismissal  of 
English  employees  in  the  north  of  China,  and  even,  it  is  said, 
the  supersession  of  Sir  Robert  Hart  himself,  but,  by  way  of 
commencing  this  modest  programme,  she  caused  a  convention 
to  be  drawn  up  with  Korea,  to  substitute  a  M.  AlexieflF  for 
Mr.  McLeavy  Brown,  who,  as  Commissioner  of  Customs  in 
Korea  and  Financial  Adviser  to  the  Korean  Government,  has 
accomplished  the  task  of  closing  the  Korean  accounts  for  the 
year  with  all  debts  paid  and  a  million  and  a  half  dollars  in  the 
treasury.  A  fleet  of  six  British  vessels  anchoring  off  Chemulpo 
disposed  of  the  claims  of  M.  AlexiefT,  and,  as  Russia  has  thus 
failed  in  her  attack  upon  the  subordinate,  she  is  unlikely  to 
proceed  for  the  present  in  her  similar  policy  towards  the  chief. 
Not  only  this,  however,  but  England  has  at  last  adopted  the 
course  which  all  those  of  us  who  know  the  Far  East  well,  and 
are  profoundly  interested  in  British  interests  there,  have  been 
urging  for  years.  She  has,  namely,  offered  a  loan  to  China — 
all  negotiations  with  other  Powers  having  broken  down — 
upon  far  more  favourable  and  disinterested  terms  than  any 
other  nation  either  could  or  would  propose.  The  loan  offered 
is  for  ;^'i  2,000,000  for  fifty  years  at  par,  and  3  per  cent. 
interest.  This  could  be  raised  in  England  at  2^  per  cent. 
(1  may  add,  to  the  very  great  relief  of  the  Post  Office),  the 
difference  between  the  rate  at  which  the  money  is  lent 
and  that  at  which  it  is  borrowed  being  utilised  to  form  a 
sinking  fund.  The  security  in  the  first  place  will  be  the 
unpledged  remainder  of  the  Customs  income,  which,  it  is 
safe  to  say,  now  amounts  to  over  6,000,000  tads,  or  ;^' 1,000,000, 
and,  in  default,  certain  other  resources  not  specified.  The 
other  conditions  are  (i)  that  three  new  Treaty  Ports  shall 
be  opened  —Talien-wan,  just  behind  Port  Arthur,  Hsiang-in, 
in  the  anti-foreign  province  of  Hupei,  and  Nan-ning  ;  (2)  that 
no  part  of  Central  China  shall  be  alienated  to  any  other 
Power ;  and  (3)  that  the  British  Burmah  Railway  shall  be  pro- 
longed into  Yunnan.  Loan  or  no  loan,  the  last  two  conditions 
will  certainly  be  insisted  upon  by  this  country  when 
occasion  demands  ;  therefore  there  is  nothing  new  in  them. 
The  three  new  Treaty  Ports  will  be  for  the  advantage  of  the 
trade  of  the  whole  world,  and  will,  of  course,  increase  the 


402  COSMOPOLIS. 

Chinese  Customs  revenue  considerably.  Russia,  of  course,  is 
intensely  annoyed  at  the  suggestion  that  Tailen-wan,  which 
she  has  just  occupied — also,  of  course,  only  "temporarily" — 
and  without  which  Port  Arthur  is  valueless  as  a  naval  fortress, 
should  be  thus  neutralised.  Consequently,  the  Russian  Charge 
d'Affaires  in  Peking  is  at  this  moment  engaged  in  threatening 
the  Tsiingli  Yamen  that,  if  they  accept  the  British  proposal, 
Russia  will  positively  withdraw  her  friendship  and  protection 
from  China.  A  Chinese  oflicial  has  no  sense  of  humour, 
otherwise  it  would  be  impossible  to  make  this  threat  to  him, 
for  the  Russian  protection  of  China  up  to  the  present  time 
has  consisted  in  taking  from  China  Manchuria,  trying  to  take 
Port  Arthur,  and  previously,  in  i860,  taking  from  her  the  huge 
Primorsk  province  with  a  coast-line  of  seven  hundred  miles. 
The  struggle  is  thus  a  perfectly  definite  one  between  Great 
Britain  and  Russia,  with  France  supporting  the  latter,  and  if 
Lord  Salisbury  only  stands  firm — on  which  point,  in  view 
of  his  past  record  of  "  graceful  concessions,"  it  is  permissible 
to  feel  no  little  anxiety — the  principle  of  Free  Trade  will  win, 
and  we  shall  win  with  it. 

The  one  proviso  of  doubt  with  regard  to  British  policy  is  in 
connection  with  Chusan.  Mr.  H.  W.  Wilson,  writing  in  The 
Pall  Mall  Gazette  with  much  knowledge,  quotes  "that  most 
acute  and  thoughtful  of  naval  politicians,  Admiral  Colomb,"  as 
declaring  that  the  British  route  to  the  Far  East  "  is  geo- 
graphically defective,  inasmuch  as  the  commercial  route  is 
prolonged  very  much  beyond  Hong  Kong  to  the  north,  while 
the  nervous  system  ends  there  .  .  .  and,  with  Russian  hostile 
or  neutral  ports  to  the  north,  our  commerce  might  suffer."  If 
Lord  Salisbury  insists  at  whatever  cost  upon  the  policy  so 
strongly  declared  by  his  Ministers,  then,  although  I  have  for 
years  advocated  the  occupation  of  Chusan,  I  should  be  inclined 
to  admit  that  he  did  right  not  to  seize  it  a  month  ago.  But  if 
he  gives  way  at  any  point,  his  declarations  of  policy  will  only 
have  had  the  effect  of  tying  our  hands  and  of  rendering 
difficult  and  even  perilous  a  step  which  a  month  ago  all 
Europe  was  ready  to  see  us  take.  The  judgment  of  the 
country,  therefore,  should  be  held  in  suspense  for  at  least 
another  month.     It  should  also  not  be  overlooked  that  two 


« 


THE  GLOBE  AND  THE   ISLAND.  403 


Russian  first-class  battleships  have  been  ordered  to  the  Far 
East.  One  of  them,  the  Cissoi  Veliki  (8,880  tons),  is  already  in 
the  Suez  Canal,  and  the  other,  the  Navarin  (4,976  tons),  is  to 
start  at  once  from  the  Mediterranean. 

« 
The   position  of  Japan  in  relation  to  both  East   and  West 

affords  one  of  the  most  entrancing  problems  before  the  student 

of  foreign  affairs.     Since  human  nature  is  the  same  in  Japan 

as  elsewhere,  a  large  part  of  Japan's  attitude  is  obvious,  and 

may  be  summarised  in  a  word  or  two.    After  a  marvellous 

commercial,  naval,  and  military  development,  after  foreseeing 

for  many  years  that  a  struggle  with  China  was  inevitable,  after 

preparing  for  it  down  to  the  most  minute  detail,  this  struggle 

came  off,  and  was  an  overwhelming  victory  for  Japan.     No 

sooner,  however,  had  she  selected  the  fruits  of  her  victory  and 

was  preparing  to  enjoy  them,  than   Russia  stepped   in — for 

France  and  Germany,  angling  as  they  were  at  that  time  for 

Russian  favours,  were  mere  puppets  in  the  hands  of  Lobanoflf 

— and  snatched  them  out  of  her  hands.     Not  only  this,  but 

shortly  afterwards,  by  the  Cassini   Convention   of  1895 — all 

doubts  concerning  the  existence  of  which  have  been  dissipated, 

I   hope,  by  now — Russia  quietly  appropriated  for  herself  the 

very  territorial  advantages  which  she  had  refused  to  allow  Japan 

to  have  on  the  ground  that  they  would  imperil  the  peace  of 

the  Eastern  world.     Exhausted  for  the  moment  by  the  war, 

and  advised  by  England,  the  only  Power  which  could  have 

helped  her,  to  accept  the  situation,  Japan  wisely  recognised  the 

inevitable.     To   say  that   she   was    infuriated,    and    that  she 

registered  on  the  spot  a  solemn  vow  to  be  revenged  at  the 

earliest  possible  moment,  is  merely,  as  1  have  remarked,  to  say 

that  human  nature  is  the  same  in  Japan  as  elsewhere.     She 

instantly  set  on  foot  a  twofold  scheme  of  re-organisation  and 

increase  of  her  army  and  navy,  the  two  parts  of  the  scheme  to 

mature  respectively  in   1905  and  1906 — at  least  a  year,  even 

according  to  the  official  estimate,  before  Russia  can  complete 

the  Trans-Siberian   Railway.     When  the  military  programme 

is   realised,  the  Japanese   Army,    exclusive   of  the    Imperial 

Guards,  will  consist  of  twelve  divisions,  with   a  peace  strength 

of  145,000  men,  and  a  war  strength  of  520,000.     Her  naval 


404  COSMOI>OLIS. 

increase  is  to  be  on  even  a  vaster  scale.  In  1906  the  Japanese 
Navy  is  to  consist  of  sixty-five  ships,  with  an  aggregate\^ 
placement  of  233,100  tons,  eleven  torpedo-boat  destroyers,  ahc 
a  hundred  and  fifteen  torpedo  boats.  Mr.  Charles  Cramp,  th' 
great  Philadelphia  shipbuilder,  has  recently  remarked  tha 
Japan  appears  "as  a  cyclone  in  a  smooth  sea  of  common 
place  progress,"  and  that  only  the  word  "  phenomenon  "  i 
applicable  to  her  naval  development.  Everyone  saw  am 
admired  the  magnificent  battleship  Fuji  at  the  Jubilee 
Review  ;  her  sister  ship  Yashima  followed  her  soon  afterward: 
to  Japan.  At  the  present  moment  three  14,800-ton  battle 
ships  are  building  in  England  ;  a  io,ooo-ton  battleship  ha 
just  been  laid  down  ;  four  first-class  armoured  cruisers  o 
9,600-ton  displacement  and  20-knot  speed  are  building  ii 
England,  Germany,  and  France ;  one  protected  cruiser  of  4,30< 
tons  and  23  knots  in  England  ;  two  5,000-ton  protected  cruiser 
of  23  knots  in  the  United  States,  one  launched  yesterday  at  Mr 
Cramp's  own  yard  ;  and  three  3,000-ton  protected  cruisers  0 
20  knots  at  the  Imperial  Dockyard  in  Japan,  besides  twelv 
30-knot  torpedo-boat  destroyers  and  twelve  90-ton  torpedo 
boats.  It  has  also  been  recently  stated  that  Japan  has  bough 
in  England  two  cruisers  which  had  been  completed  for  th 
Chilian  Government.  If  Japan  is  financially  able,  and  i 
permitted  by  events,  to  carry  out  this  enormous  programme 
she  will  not  only  possess  the  second  navy  in  the  world,  but  i 
the  Far  East,  when  her  military  reorganisation  is  also  complete 
she  will  be  absolutely  invulnerable  on  land  and  sea  alike,  excep 
to  a  strong  combination  of  Western  Powers.  Such  a  prospec 
is  unique  in  history,  and  the  first  appearance  of  an  Asiati 
nation  as  a  military  and  naval  Power  of  the  first-class  ma 
easily  overthrow  all  Western  complacent  forecasts,  and  vitall 
change  the  relations  of  the  Western  nations  to  one  another. 

So  colossal  an  ambition,  however,  involves  a  propoi 
tionately  great  financial  strain,  and  this  Japan  is  just  beginnin: 
to  feel  seriously.  After  the  war  everything  "boomed"  ii 
Japan.  In  a  period  of  twenty-six  years  the  value  of  her  foreigi 
trade  has  grown  from  48,000,000  to  288,000,000  dollar 
but  during  the  past  twenty-one  months  the  balance  of  trad 
is  against   her   for   no    less   than    244,000,000  dollars.     He 


THE  GLOBE  AND  THE  ISLAND.  405 

surplus  of  62,000,000  dollars  lying  in   the  Treasury   on   the 
outbreak  of  the  war  has  disappeared  ;    the  National  Debt  has 
increased  by  340,000,000  dollars ;   her  ordinary  expenditure, 
which  for  the  average  of  the  ten  years   1885-94  was  under 
80,000,000  dollars,    mounted  up  for   the  past  financial    year 
to  123,000,000   dollars,   and    in  eight    years'  time   will   have 
reached    173,000,000    dollars.      By    some    means    or    other, 
85,000,000  dollars  have  to  be  added  to  the  national  income. 
The  Government    proposes   to   meet    this  by   doubling    the 
tax  upon    fermented    liquor,    by    making    tobacco    a    State 
monopoly,    and    by    a    large     increase    in     the     land     tax. 
Even    with   these,   however,   more   money  will   be   urgently 
required,     and     this    will    have    to    be    met    by    a    foreign 
loan.    There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  recent  adoption  of  the 
gold   standard   by    the    Japanese    Government    was    chiefly 
prompted  by  the  approaching  necessity  for  securing  foreign 
capital,  although  the  other  alleged  reason — namely,  that  silver 
having  fallen  as  low  as  it  is  likely  to  go,  the  Japanese  Govern- 
ment, having  reaped  the  benefit  of  cheap  silver,  would  now 
be  wise  to  get  what   advantage   is  possible  from  the  opposite 
movement — doubtless  had  some  weight.      But  unless  japan 
speedily  finds  some  means  of  redressing  the  balance  of  trade 
in  her  favour,  the  maintenance  of  a  gold  standard  is  likely  to 
prove  far  beyond  her  powers.     And  at  the  present  moment  it 
is  not  easy  to  see  at  what  point  any  commercial  improvement 
may  be  expected.     Prices  are   rising   in   Japan  ;    there  is  a 
serious  dearth  of  skilled  labour ;  in  various  directions  labour 
troubles  are  threatening  ;  reckless  gambling  in  limited  liability 
companies  is  bearing  fruit  in  the  inability  of  investors  to  meet 
calls  upon  shares  ;  coal  has  risen  so  much   in  price  that  the 
importation   of  it   from   Australia  is   positively  mooted  ;   the 
great  Japanese  steamship  line,  the   Nippon  Yusen  Kaisha,  has 
been  unable  to  pay  any  dividend  this  year,  and  has  made  a 
heavy  loss  over  its   European  line  ;  and,  for  my  own  part,  I 
am  inclined  to  add  to  these  the  opinion  that  the  adoption  of 
the  gold  standard  was,  from  a  purely  Japanese  point  of  view, 
premature,  if  not  unwise. 

In   examining  the   political   position  of  Japan,  the  above 
considerations  call  for  careful  study.     On  the  other  hand,  the 


4o6  COSMOPOLIS. 

present  policy  of  Great  Britain,  if  Lord  Salisbury  sticks  to  it, 
is  all  in  Japan's  favour  ;  it  ranges  her  necessarily,  and  to  her 
own  great  advantage,  upon  the  side  of  Britain,  and  therefore 
protects  her  during  the  most  critical  period  she  has  ever 
traversed.  Her  credit  is  good  enough  for  any  reasonable  loan 
she  may  desire,  though  this,  of  course,  will  only  be  a  palliative 
and  not  a  cure.  And  the  Japanese  Government  has  hitherto 
shown  itself  exceedingly  well  inspired  in  financial  matters. 

* 
The  problem  of  the  Upper  Nile,  of  the  seriousness  of  which 

I  warned  my  readers  two  months  ago,  so  far  from  growing 
simpler  in  the  meantime,  has  taken  on  suddenly  a  more  alarm- 
ing aspect.  A  week  before  anything  was  published  there  was 
considerable  anxiety  in  official  circles  in  London  concerning 
the  position  of  Sir  Herbert  Kitchener's  Egyptian  army.  This 
is  now  spread  over  a  very  long  line,  and  is  garrisoning  a  large 
number  of  important  points.  Moreover,  it  has  been  in  the 
field  now  for  six  months,  and,  however  excellent  fighters  the 
Soudanese  are,  and  however  much  progress  towards  becoming 
genuine  soldiers  the  Egyptians  have  made,  this  force  as  a 
whole  has  necessarily  suffered  considerable  depreciation  in 
value  from  the  absence  of  that  regularity  of  discipline  which 
attaches  to  permanent  quarters,  and  it  is  more  or  less  fatigued 
by  a  long  period  of  very  hard  work.  When,  therefore,  news 
reached  the  Sirdar  that  the  Dervish  army  was  preparing  for 
an  advance,  he  had  no  choice  but  to  request  that  a  large 
Firitish  force  might  be  sent  to  him  with  the  greatest  haste. 
The  speed  with  which  his  request  was  complied  with  reflects 
welcome  credit  upon  the  organisation  of  the  British  army,  and 
the  manner  in  which  the  troopship  Xiihia  was  found  by 
torpedo-boats  from  Malta,  and  stopped,  was  a  brilliant  bit  of 
naval  work.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  when  the  preliminary 
fight  at  Metemmeh  and  the  final  struggle  at  Omdurman  occur, 
the  Sirdar  will  need  every  man  and  every  rifle  he  commands, 
for  not  only  are  the  Dervishes  at  last  all  in  one  place,  but  they 
must  realise  that  this  is  their  very  last  chance,  and  that  defeat 
for  them  would  mean  annihilation  for  ever.  Therefore  they 
will  fight  with  even  more  than  their  usual  tigerish  ferocity, 
and    it    is     to    be    feared    that    the    losses    on    both    sides 


THE  GLOBE   AND  THE   ISLAND.  407 

will  be  heavy.  On  the  other  hand,  a  defeat  of  the 
Egyptian  forces  would  be  an  unparalleled  disaster,  and, 
indeed,  would  place  the  British  Empire  in  a  perilous  con- 
dition, since  it  would  put  an  enormous  strain  upon  our  army, 
ill-fitted  to  meet  it,  with  the  certainty  that  difficulties  would  be 
made  for  us  at  once  by  other  Powers  in  several  parts  of  the 
world.  The  railway,  by  the  time  this  is  printed,  will  have  been 
pushed  to  a  point  fifty  miles  south  of  Abu  Hamed  ;  but  the 
importance  of  this  must  not  be  over-estimated,  as  it  is  but  a 
single  line,  hastily  constructed,  and  has  quite  as  much  as  it  can 
do  to  keep  the  advanced  forces  supplied,  and  to  carry  rein- 
forcements slowly  to  the  front.  Sir  Herbert  Kitchener  has  now 
requested  that  for  the  moment  no  more  British  troops  mny  be 
sent  forward.  This  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  he  feels 
himself  sufficiently  strong  ;  it  may  also  signify  that  he  is  unable 
to  feed  any  more  men  than  he  has  at  present.  But  the  "  vast 
Dervish  force,  short  of  food,  at  bay,"  may  not  advance,  and 
may  render  him  the  great  service  of  waiting  until  high  Nile, 
when  he  can  choose  his  own  moment  for  attack. 

Meanwhile,  good  news  has  come  from  a  point  within  two 
hundred  miles  of  Khartum.  The  important  city  of  Kassala, 
standing  in  the  midst  of  one  of  the  most  fertile  districts  of 
Africa,  has  been  handed  over  to  us  by  the  Italians,  and  is  now 
held  by  an  Egyptian  battalion  supported  by  a  number  of 
friendly  and  plucky  Arabs.  The  Italian  officers  had  organised 
the  defence  in  an  admirable  manner  ;  their  native  levies,  who 
have  now  joined  the  Egyptian  army,  were  in  first-rate  fighting 
condition,  and,  but  for  the  timidity  of  the  Italian  Govern- 
ment, it  is  now  known  that  the  Kassala  Italian  forces  would 
have  secured  the  brilliant  little  victories  that  fell  to  Colonel 
Parsons's  insight  and  initiative.  Our  relations  with  the  rest 
of  the  world  being  what  they  are,  it  is  refreshing  to  read 
of  the  goodwill  and  mutual  appreciation  displayed  by  the 
British  and  Italian  officers.  On  the  very  next  day  after 
his  arrival,  and  while  the  Italian  flag  was  still  flying  over 
Kassala — that  is,  before  the  Egyptian  troops  had  arrived— 
Colonel  Parsons  summoned  the  friendly  Arabs  to  him,  and  to 
their  unspeakable  delight  despatched  them  against  the  Dervish 
'outpost  forts  of  Osobri  and   El   Fasher,  on  the  Atbara  River, 


4o8  COSMOPOLIS. 

and  they  captured  both  these  places  in  the  most  gallant 
manner.  Soon  after,  they  took  Es  Sofiyeh  and  Mugatta,  and 
the  arrival  at  Khartum  of  the  defeated  garrisons  from  these 
places  will  be  a  short,  sharp  warning  to  the  Khalifa  that  he 
must  now  win  or  perish  in  his  last  ditch. 

One  of  Mr.  Knight's  letters  to  The  Times  contains  a  statement 
of  the  greatest  gravity  : — 

I  need  say  no  more,  savi-  tliat  an  understaiuling  iiiidoubtcdly  exists 
between  the  Khalifa  and  Menelik,  and  that  the  Abyssinian  Kmperor, 
professing  to  consider  the  Anglo-E^ptian  occupation  of  Kassala  as  a 
menace  to  hiniseU*,  is  now  mobihsing  his  forces. 

In  connection  with  this  must  be  taken  the  fact  that  Prince 
Henry  of  Orleans  is  now  in  Marseilles  with  one  hundred 
Senegalese  soldiers — that  is,  F'rench  colonial  regulars — who 
have  been  placed  at  his  disposal  by  the  French  Government 
for  the  purpose  of  serving  in  the  Equatorial  provinces  claimed 
by  Abyssinia.  Next  month  he  and  M.  Leontieff,  to  whom  the 
Emperor  Menelik  has  accorded  the  nominal  Governorship  of 
these  provinces,  will  leave  for  Abyssinia,  and  will  take  with 
them  1 2,000  rifles,  2,000,000  cartridges,  and  two  Maxim  guns. 
According  to  the  Fij^atv,  the  Senegalese  troops  are  to  form  the 
nucleus  of  an  expedition  being  organised  by  Menelik,  to 
comprise  twenty  Europeans,  some  military  engineers,  several 
doctors,  and  some  commercial  agents.  It  has  already  been 
frankly  stated  that  Prince  Henry's  intention  is  to  seize  upon 
the  districts  of  the  Upper  Nile  in  the  name  of  Abyssinia  or 
France,  with  the  object  of  rendering  an  Anglo-Egyptian 
occupation  impossible. 

Opinions  in  England  and  in  France  will  differ  as  to  the 
morality  of  thus  urging  forward  a  semi-savage  power  to  bring 
it  into  conflict  with  a  civilised  nation.  It  would  be  impossible, 
however,  to  over-estimate  the  danger  to  peace  thus  preparing. 
One  thing  the  French  nation,  which  applauds  this  young 
adventurer,  should  bear  in  mind — namely,  that  if  France 
induces  Menelik  to  throw  down  the  gage  of  battle,  Great 
Britain's  counter-blow  will  strike  not  Abyssinia,  but  France. 
It  would  be  indiscreet  for  the  moment  to  say  more  about  this, 
though  there  is  plenty  more  that  might  be  said. 

Henry  Norman. 


LITERARY    BULLETIN. 


BOOKS. 


A  Short  History  of  British  Colonial 
Policy.  By  H.  E.  Egkrtox,  M.A., 
Barrister-at-La\v.    (Methucn.) 

This  is  a  successful  attempl  to  condense 
the  history  of  our  colonies  into  a  form 
intelh'gible  to  the  ordinary  reader,  and 
useful  for  serious  purposes  of  study  and 
reference.  The  question  of  England's 
relations  with  her  colonies  has  been, 
during  the  past  year,  so  much  before  the 
public  that  a  work  dealing  with  it  from 
a  sober  and  scientific  point  of  view  must 
be  welcomed  bv  all  those  interested  in 
pc>Iitics  and  the  making  of  history. 

Ambroisk  Fare  and  his  Timks,  1510- 
1590.  By  Stephen  Paget.  (The 
Knickerbocker  Press  :  Putnam.  los. 
6d) 

The  interesting  life  of  Pare,  the  great 
French  docior,  is  here  told  simply  by  Mr. 
Paget,  and  Pare's  own  account  of  his 
"  Journe>-s  to  Diverse  Places  "  is  included ; 
together  with  extracts  from  his  "  Book  of 
the  Plague,"  which  is  good  reading,  lx)tli 
from  a  lay  and  a  medical  point  of  view. 
Mr.  Paget  lets  Pare  speak  for  himself  in 
the  greater  portion  of  the  book,  and  he 
presents  a  curious  mixture  of  knowledge 
and  credulity  ;  some  of  his  practice  being 
quite  modern,  and  some  founded  on  such 
superstitions  as  a  belief  in  the  power  of 
saints  to  cure  diseases,  and  the  efficacy  of 
the  Ro>'al  touch  for  the  King's  evil.  His 
great  work  in  medical  science  was  the 
introduction  of  the  ligature  in  amputa- 
tion wounds  in  the  place  of  cauterisation 
and  burning  with  oil.  The  illustrations 
are  numerous  and  well  chosen. 


Christina  Kosskttl  A  Biographical 
and  Critical  Study.  By  Mackenzie 
Bell.  With  si.v  portraits  and  six 
facsimiles.  (Hurst  &  Blackett.  12s.) 
Christina  Rossetti's  life  had  no  story, 
and  her  admirers  arc  content  to  know 
her  through  her  poetiy,  which  was  the 
ultimate  expression  of  her  personality. 
She  was  not  a  good  letter-writer,  and 
letters  like  some  of  tlu)sc  Mr.  Bell  has 
included  in  this  collection  tell  us  nothing 
we  want  to  know,  and  were  better  un- 
published. Mr.  Bell,  like  so  many 
biographers,  is  over  conscientious,  and 
lacks  a  sense  of  proportion — he  loads  his 
subject  with  irrelevant  detail.  But  he 
has  one  merit  :  he  sends  us  back  with 
renewed  delight  to  the  original  source 
whence  we  drew  our  knowledge  <»f  Miss 
Rosselti — the  poems. 

Pi'PiLS  OF  Peter  the  Great  :  A  His- 
tory OF  THE  Russian  Covrt  axd 
Empire  from  1697  to  1740.    Bv  R. 
XiSBET  Baix.    (Constable.    15s.  net.) 
This  history  is  a  new  departure,  for 
but  little  is  known  in  England  about  the 
foundation  of  the  Russian  Empire  ;  lyid 
the  subject   is  worthy  of  the  scrupulous 
attention  Mr.  Bain  has  bestowed  upon  it. 
As  a  picture  of  the  manners  of  the  period 
it  is  excellent.     The  character  of  Peter 
the  Great's  **  pupils  '—that  is  to  say.  his 
great  ministei*s  and  favourites,  Tolstoy, 
Apraksin,  Menschikov,  Ostermann,  and 
others — are  drawn   with    a    convincing 
touch.     To  the  greatest   of  his   pupils, 
Catherine  1.,  his  wife  and  successor,  Mr. 
Bain  does  ample  justice  ;  holding,  as  he 
d^x^s,  that  her  coarseness  and  the  irregu- 


410 


COSMOPOLIS. 


larities  of  her  early  life  were  counter- 
balanced by  her  lionesty,  g<x)d  temper, 
and  fearlessness.  We  hope  Mr.  Bain 
will  find  his  book  arouses  the  interest 
it  deserves,  and  will  give  us  the  pro- 
mised second  volume. 

Affirmations.     Rv  Havelock  Ellis. 
(Scott.    6s.) 

Mr.  Ellis  uses  criticism  as  a  vehicle 
for  the  expression  of  personal  opinion. 
This  method  is  not  so  unfair  to  the 
writers  thus  criticised  as  mij^ht  be  sup- 
posed. His  main  "  aftirmation  *'  is  that 
a  man  must  at  all  costs,  and  on  all  points, 
dare  to  think  for  himself ;  iind  the  authors 
he  conceives  to  be  types  illustrating  his 
theory  are  Xietschc.  in  the  world  of  in- 
tellect ;  Casanova,  in  the  world  of  sense  : 
Zola  and  Huysmans,  in  the  world  of 
literature  ;  as  the  exponents  respectively 
of  a  classical,  as  opposed  to  a  decadent 
art ;  St.  Francis  of  Assisi  "and  others," 
in  the  world  of  the  spirit.  Mr.  Ellis  is 
an  ingenious  and  suggestive  writer,  but 
his  scientific  bias  is  a  little  too  much  en 
ividaici\  and  we  cannot  forgive  him  the 
constant  use  of  medical  terms.  We  will 
listen  to  him  when  he  treats  «)f  medical 
and  scientific  subjects,  and  again  when 
he  deals  with  questions  of  life  as  they 
are  expressed  in  literature,  but  we  object 
to  him  when  he  confuses  the  two. 

IXDI'STKIAL     DE.MOCRACY.      By     SIDNEY 

and  Beatrice  Wehb.    Two  vols. 
(I^ngmans.  Green  ^  Co.    25s.) 

The  authors  of  this  work  look  upon 
any  science  of  economics  founded  merely 
on  theory-  as  most  mischievous,  and  treat 
it  as  a  historical  and  a  social  science, 
based  on  conclusions  deduced  from 
three  kinds  of  evidence—/.*'.,  docu- 
mentary, from  personal  observation, 
and  from  the  "interview."  They  ex- 
pose many  fallacious  popular  notions 
as  to  the  real  nature  and  functions 
of  trade  unionism,  and  show  further 
that  the  opposition  of  the  early  econo- 
mists to  such  societies  was  founded  on 
false  theories.  The  whole  subject  is 
thoroughly  investigated  and  analysed 
by  these  able  authors,  who  have  made 
the  study  of  trade  unions  their  spe- 
ciality, and  whose  personal  experience 
and   observation    renders    their   work 


most  valuable,  both  historically  and  as  a 
treatise  on  practical  methods  of  dealing 
with  the  labour  question. 

Korea  and  Her  Neighbours.  By  Mrs. 
Bishop  (Isabella  L.  Bird),  F.K.G.S., 
&c.  With  a  Preface  by  Sir  Walter 
C.  HiLLiER,  K.C.M.G.  With  maps 
and  illustrations.  Two  vols.  (John 
Murray.    24s.) 

This  is  by  far  the  most  important  work 
yet  published  about  Korea.  Mrs.  Bishop 
has  obtained  a  great  deal  of  information 
through  j^ersonal  obser\*ation  of  the 
manners  and  customs  of  the  country  ; 
whose  inhabitants,  though  shrewd  and 
cunning,  possess  amongst  other  Oriental 
vices  that  of  an  insurmountable  indol- 
ence, and  are  totally  incapable  of  under- 
standing or  utilising  the  Western  civilis- 
ation which  has  t)een  lately  thrust  on 
them.  She  gives  a  most  interesting 
account  of  the  Japanese  and  Chinese 
armies  during  the  late  war — the  one, 
well-organised  and  commanded ;  the 
other,  a  mass  of  raw  material,  without 
discipline  or  even  the  necessary  anns. 
She  does  not  seem  to  consider  the  part 
played  of  late  by  Russia  in  Korea  as 
having  been  other  than  beneficial  to  the 
country  ;  but  it  appears  to  be  on  the 
wane,  and  is  likely  to  be  superseded  by 
Japanese  influence.  This  is  perhaps  one 
of  the  most  notable  books  of  travel  yet 
published  by  Mrs.  Bishop  ;  as  it  deals, 
not  only  with  the  religion,  castoins,  and 
aspects  of  a  countr\'  hitherto  almost 
unknown,  but  also  with  questions  of 
wide  political  significance.  Knglaiul, 
Mrs.  Bishop  suggests,  has  possibly  not 
done  wisely  in  pursuing  a  policy  of  in- 
difference to  the  fortunes  of  Korea, 
whose  occupation  by  a  hostile  Power 
might  prove  a  serious  matter  as  regards 
her  own  position  in  the  Far  East. 

The  Life  of  Xapoleon  III.  By  Archi- 
HALD  Forbes,  LL.D.  With  thirty- 
seven  illustrations.  (Chatto  &  Wiii- 
dus.     12s.) 

Mr.  Forbes  is  concerned  rather  with 
the  outward  and  political  aspects  of 
Louis  Napoleon's  histor>'  than  with  his 
private  life,  and  the  motives  which 
actuated  him  during  his  varied  and 
melodramatic  career.  The  personal  ele- 
ment, which  counts  for  so  much  in  such 


LITERARY   BULLETIN. 


411 


a  life,  is  almost  ignored,  and  the  portrait 
therefore  suffers  as  a  whole.  The  poli- 
tical events  of  his  time  are  treated  at 
length,  and  many  authorities  are  cited, 
Mr.  Blanchard  Jerrold,  the  great  eulogist 
of  Louis  Napoleon,  being  amongst  those 
most  often  referred  to.  But  we  are  glad 
when  Mr.  Forbes  gets  upon  his  own 
ground,  and  gives  us  descriptions  of  cam- 
paigns and  battles,  with  his  customary 
ven'c  and  clearness.  His  book  then 
becomes  most  exhilarating  reading;. 

H.R.H.  THE  Pri.nck  of  Walks.  An 
Account  of  His  Career,  includinji 
His  Birth,  Education,  Travels.  Mar- 
riage, and  Home  Life  ;  and  Philan- 
thropic, Social,  and  Political  Work. 
(Grant  Richards.     10s.  6d  ) 

There  is  a  large  portion  of  the  public 
.to  whom  the  doings  of  Royalty  are  a 
constant  source  of  interest,  and  to  them 
this  book  will  be  a  fund  of  information. 
It  deals  largely  in  anecdotes — some  of 
which  we  should  like  to  verify — and 
details  as  to  the  home  life  and  habits  of 
the  Prince  of  Wales  and  his  family. 
The  historical  part  is  written  somewhat 
perfunctorily,  as  though  the  author  had 
been  aware  that  it  is  not  likely  to  appeal 
very  >trongly  to  her  particular  audience. 
We  assume  that  this  work  is  by  a 
lady,  from  varirnis  intimate  touches  of 
description,  and  we  are  sure  that 
she  will  be  widely  read  and  appre- 
ciated by  those  for  whom  her  book  is 
intended. 


BOOKS    RECEIVED. 
From    Tonkin    to    India    by    the 

SOUKCKS  OF  THE    IRAWADY.     JANUARY, 

1895— January,  J^-  ^y  Prince  Henri 
d'Orl^-ans.  Translated  by  Hawley 
Bent,  M.A.  Illustrated  by  G.  Vuillier. 
(Methuen.    25s.) 

The  Cid-Campeador,  .\nd  the  Wan- 
ing OF  THE  Crescent  in  the  West. 
(Heroes  of  the  Nations.)  By  H.  Butler 
Clarke,  M.A.  Illustrated  by  Don  San- 
tiago Arcos.     (Putnam.    5s.) 

The  Protestant  Faith  ;  ok,  Salva- 
tion 11 Y  Belief.  By  Dwight  Hinckley 
Olmstem).  Third  edition,  with  an  In- 
troduction on  the  Limitations  of  Thought. 
(Putnam.     3s.  6d.) 

Facts  about  Monte  Carlo.  By  A 
Group  of  Shareholders.  (The  Rnx- 
burghe  Press,     is.) 

John  Bright.  Victorian  Era  Series, 
III.  By  C.  A.  ViNCE.  M.A.  (Blackie. 
2s.  6d.) 

The  Old  Rome  .\nd  the  New,  and 
Other  Studies.  By  W.  J.  Stillman. 
(Grant  Richards.    6s.) 

Hora  Xovissima.  .\  Metrical  Version 
of  some  portions  of  the  First  Book  of 
the  Latin  Poem  by  Bernard  de  Morlaix, 
entitled  "  Dc  Contemptu  Mundi."  With 
a  Text  appended.  By  Charles  Law- 
rence Ford.  B.A.  (Houlston.  is.  (>d.  net.) 

Thk  Trii  mph  of  Death.  Translated 
from  the  Italian  of  Gabrielle  D'Annun/i<i 
byGEORGiNX  H  VRDiNc;.     (  Mcinemaini. 


THEATRES. 


The  Avenue  The.\tre. — A  revival  of 
Sweet  Xaney  (based  on  Miss  Rhoda 
Broughton's  novel  of  that  name),  with 
the  same  playbill  as  that  of  the  Court 
Theatre  in  the  spring  of  last  year. 

Theatre  Royal,  Drury  Lane.— In 
the  mounting  of  the  Christmas  panto- 
mime at  this  theatre,  Mr.  Arthur  Collins 
has  proved  himself  a  worthy  successor 
to  Sir  Augustus  Harris,  and  the  most 
exacting  of  sightseers  can  mark  no 
decline  in  the  sumptuous  art  of  stage 
upholstery.  The  Babes  in  the  Wood 
is  the  peg  on  which  the  story  is  hung. 
The  developments  of  the  nursery  tale 
are    of    course   arbitrary,  and  set   one 


wondering  whether  the  "bfK>k"  of  a 
modern  pantomime  must  necessarily  be 
sacrificed  to  the  w/sr  en  schu\  which,  in 
this  instance,  is  as  magnificent  and 
opulent  as  ever.  Some  of  the  details  are 
artistic  enough  in  themselves,  but  are 
apt  to  lose  their  significance  under  the 
pressure  of  their  gorgeous  setting.  Still, 
as  an  astonishing  spectacular  entertain- 
ment, Drury  Lane  holds  its  own  this 
season. 

The  Lyceum.— Sir  Henry  Irving  has 
begun  the  season  with  Peter  the  Great^ 
by  his  son,  Mr.  Laurence  Irving.  The 
main  conception  of  the  play  lie^  in  the 
conflict  in  the  mind  and  heart  of  the 


412 


COSMOPOLIS. 


Czar  bcLween  l<n'e  for  his  son  and  his 
duty  (as  he  conceived  it)  to  the  State. 
Such  a  motive  leaves  little  room  for  a 
love  episode,  aiKi  Miss  Ellen  Terry's 
nVc  is  quite  subordinate.  0\vin|j  per- 
haps to  the  excessive  intellectuality  of 
the  play,  even  Irving's  talent  hardly 
sustains  dramatic  interest  throughout. 
But  the  dialogue  is  to  the  point,  and,  for 
the  most  part,  characteristic  of  the 
speakers,  and  if  the  influence  of  Ibsen 
can  be  traced  here  and  there,  we  would 
only  criticise  it  in  so  far  as  it  sometimes 
gives  a  false  note  of  mcxlernity  to  a  play 
which  is,  after  all,  in  the  first  place 
historic. 

The  (Jakkick.  Limiiirlhi,  by  Geof- 
frey Thorne  and  Horace  I^eonard  (music 
by  Oscar  Barrett),  has  been  mounted  with 
much  artistic  discernment.  The  dia- 
logue contains  some  real  fun,  while  the 
music  is  skillfully  adapted.  The  general 
effect  is  more  refined  than  we  are  accus- 
tomed to  expect  from  the  purely  spec- 
tacular pantomimes  of  lale  years,  and 
the  acting,  especially  in  the  grotesque 
parts,  is  above  the  average  ;  that  of  Mr. 
Harry  Nichols  as  one  of  the  ugly  sistt-rs 
is  capital  burlesque. 

Thk  (jI.ohk. — Mr.  Hare  has  reopened 
his  regarnished  theatre  with  a  comedy 
of  the  humorous  and  gently  romantic 
order,  called  A  Ihiilniors  Roiiinna', 
by  Martha  Morton.  The  part  of  the 
bachelor  (*'  David  Holmes"),  literary  stu- 
dent and  recluse,  is  acted  by  Mr.  Hare 
with  much  delicacy  of  feeling,  and  the 


student's  slow  withdrawal  from  the 
world  of  bKX)ks  to  that  of  life  and  love 
is  subtly  and  yet  naturally  rendered. 
Miss  Nellie  Thome's  acting  cleverly 
realises  her  not  very  original  conception 
of  the  gay  and  ingenuous  heroine. 

The  Princess's.— Mr.  Martyn  Field 
and  Mr.  Arthur  have  *'  adapted "  Lc 
Ciinu'lot  under  the  somewhat  mislead- 
ing title  of  Hoii'  Lomhii  Livts,  since 
the  amount  of  London  life  introduced 
into  the  play  is  comparatively  small. 
All  the  familiar  ingredients  of  the  melo- 
drama are  employed — the  daughter 
driven  from  home  for  refusing,  on  ob- 
viously reasonable  grounds,  the  hand  of 
the  ofiicial  suitor,  the  subsequent  struggle 
with  poverty  and  general  misfortune,  the 
linal  rescue  by  the  jovial  hen).  Lovers 
of  the  old  conventional  meUxlrama,  and 
admirers  of  Mr.  Charles  Warner's  con- 
scientious t;dent,  will  find  themselves  at 
home  at  the  Princess's. 

Terry's  Theatre  (afternoon  per- 
formances).— Captain  Basil  Wood  and 
Mr.  Walter  Slaughter  are  to  be  cx)n- 
gratulated  on  their  charming  adaptation 
of  Hans  Andersen's  fairy  talcs  to  the 
purposes  of  pantomime.  We  have, 
among  othei*s,  faithful  versions  of  Big 
Chins  ami  Little  Cltius,  The  Solttier  aud 
thf  Timii'i'  Ho.\\  and  The  Emperor's  .Vnr 
Clothes.  The  dresses  and  scenery  are 
always  in  keeping  with  the  fantastic 
characters,  and  the  acting  is  easy  and 
vivacious  throughout.  It  is  the  best 
entertainment  for  children  we  have 
seen  for  a  long  time. 


NOTICES  OF  REVIEWS. 


NiNKTKKXTH  Ckntikv.  January.— 
About  one-filth  (»f  this  number  is  j^ivcn 
over  to  the  discussion  of  .Vrmy  reform 
in  its  various  aspects.  Under  the  com- 
mon title  of  The  Wor  Office  iiiid  its  Shiiiu 
Anti\\  Colonel  Brookfield,  Major  Kasch, 
Major-Cieneral  Frank  Russell,  and  Lord 
Compton  raise  an  indictment  of  the 
Department  <>n  manifold  grounds  of 
incompetency  and  hide-bound  routine. 
Major-General* Sir  K.  I)u  Cane  defends 
I  he  second  line  of  defence  with  all  due 
deference  to  the  Navy.  He  gives  an 
interesting  account   of    projected  plan-^ 


for  invading  Kngland  by  far-seeing,  sober 
foreign  statesmen  and  generals  who  had 
seriously  entertained  as  feasible  an  idea 
that  recent  advocates  of  the  Navy  as  a 
single  bulwark  against  invasion  pooh- 
pr)oh,  in  the  writer's  estimation,  without 
warrant.  Mr.  Arthur  V.  Palmer,  a  retireil 
sergeant,has  several  plausible  suggestions 
to  make  for  the  improvement  of  the  pre- 
sent system  of  recruiting  in  Great  Britain. 

Mr.  Rowland  E.  Prothero's  article, 

The  Chihihooii  and  Sehi>olda\'S  of  Hvron, 
is  a  contribution  to  the  poet's  earlv 
biography,  in  which  the  writer,  *'  with- 


LITERARY   BULLETIM. 


41-3 


iiding  on  ground  that  Byron 
will  occupy,  hopes  to  pave  the 
his  portraiture  of  himself,  and, 
iterial  hitherto  for  the  most  part 
shed,  to  clear  up  some  disputed 
o  correct  a  few  errors,  and  to 
iome  new  rays  of  light  on  the 
jarly  career."  A  task  which  the 
las  gone  some  way  to  accomplish. 
!  Prisoticrs  of  tlw  Gods^  by  Mr.  VV. 
s,  is  a  remarkable  supplement  to 
[y  K*  Celtic  folk-lore  and  spiritual 
m  still  surviving  among  the  Irish 
ry  of  to-day.  The  opening?  para- 
gives  us  the  keynote  of  this 
ing  study  :  —  '•  None  among 
/isiting  Ireland,  and  few  among 
>Ie  living  in  Ireland,  except  pen- 
inderstand  that  the  peasants 
in  their  ancient  gods,  and  that  to 
i  to  their  forbears,  everything  is 
d  and  mysterious.  The  gods 
in  the  raths  or  forts,  and  about 
sted  thorn  trees,  and  appear  in 
lapes — now  little,  now  grotesque, 
J],  fair-haired,  and  noble,  and 
isy  and  real  in  the  world,  like  the 
in  the  markets  or  at  the  cross- 
The  peasants  remember  their 
le,  Sheagh  SidkCy  though  they 
wUy  to  call  them  by  any  name, 
'  be  angry,  unless  it  be  by  some 
rords — '  the  gentry,*  or  '  the  royal 
or  *  the  army,'  or  *  the  spirits,' 
others,'  as  the  Greek  peasant 
lis  Nereids  ;  and  they  believe, 
elve  Christian  centuries,  that  the 
id  the  best  of  their  dead  are 
hem." In  a  paper  full  of  re- 
enthusiasm.  Princess  Kropolkin 
s,  as  seen  from  the  inside,  the 
struggles  which  Russian  women 
;tained  simply  to  obtain  the  right 
rtter  education  ;  .  .  .  and  the 
'ul  organising  powers  which 
ive  displayed  in  the  creation 
intenance    of  their  educational 

>ns." Mr.    Holt    S.    Hallett, 

g  that  China  is  quite  incapable 

efence,  proceeds,  in  his  article 

The    Partition    of   China,    to 

le  spoils  of  the  Celestial  Empire 

Great    Britain,    France,    and 

The  basin  of  the  Yangtse  is  to 

England,  together  with  Yunnan 

mtung  ;  Northern  6hina  goes  to 

IX.— NO.  XXVI. 


Russia  and  Japan,  and  what  remains 
of  Southern  China  to  France.  Ger- 
man ambition  is  to  be  checkmated  by 
Japan. 

The  Fortnightly  Review.  January. 
— CacocthiS  Litcnirnm  is  the  title  M. 
Charles  Bastidc  has  given  to  his  sensa- 
tional study  of  modern  French  degene- 
racy, as  shown  by  the  rapidly  spreading 
distaste  among  the  educated  classes  for 
the  everyday  social  duties  of  professional 
work.  If  '♦  Style,"  false  romantic  ideals, 
and  paralysing  criticism  are  practically 
as  baneful  as  M.  Bastide  would  make 
out,  our  neighbours  are  indeed  in  a  bad 
way.  But  a  Marcel  Prevost  or  a  Loti  are 
in<^tances  of  happily  perverted  intentions 
that  might  have  been  pointed  out  at  any 
period  of  France's  or  any  other  nation's 
history,  and  we  can  safely  console  our- 
selves with  the  old  adage  that  a  few 
swallows    are    no    proof    of    summer. 

Mr.  Arthur  Symons'  Tl^e  Problem  oj 

Gerard  dc  Xcrval  is  best  defined  by  the 
French  term  of  etude  psychologique.  That 
latent  madness  was  the  source  of  the 
poet's  strange  power  of  seizing  essential 
likenesses  where  common  eyes  saw  but 
the  difference — a  power  akin  to  the 
artificial  faculty  of  vision  produced  by 
the  use  of  haschish  and  opium — is  (he 
answer  Mr.  Symons  seeks  to  ascertain. 

M.  Augustin  Filon  gives  us  his  fifth 

essay  on  The  Modern  French  Drama. 
Under  the  title  of  "  The  New  Comedy  " 
he    analyses    the    plays    of    MM.    Le- 

maitre,    Brieux,    and    Lavedan. Mr. 

Lucien   Wolf  continues  to    expose  the 

methods  of  anti-Semitism  in  France. 

Mr.  Dillon  has  a  statistical  paper  on 
The  Struggles  of  Religions  and  Races  in 

Russia. Mme.  Novikoff' s  Russia  and 

Her  Patients  is  an  interesting  plea  for 
the  monarchic  principle.  Turkey,  Austria, 
and  France  are  the  patients  at  present 
under  Russian  treatment,  and  we  learn 
that  England  has  begun  to  yearn  for 
some  competent  despot  to  draw  her  out 
of  the  quagmire  of  parliamentarianism. 
As  a  paradox  the  article  is  excellent 
reading  ;  but  it  is,  in  the  nature  of  the 
case,  diBicult  for  a  western  mind  to 
take  it  seriously. 

The    Coxtempokaky.    January.  —  In 
an    article    called    The    Coming  of   the 

i 


414 


COSMOPOLIS. 


SiaVj  Dr.  George  Washburn  poses  the 
question  whether  tiie  Slavonic  race  (in 
alliance  with  Latin  races  against  the  pre- 
dominance of  the  Teutonic)  is  qualifiedt 
in  an  appreciable  measure,  to  continue 
the  process  of  the  world's  civilisation.  We 
quote  some  passages  that  throw  light  on 
the  Russian  Moujik  from  the  writer's 
point  of  view  : — *'  He  (the  Moujik)  is  very 
dirty,  very  ignorant,  very  fond  of  strong 
drink.  He  is  improvident.  He  submits 
to  every  form  of  oppression  with  stolid 
indifference,  and  is  generally  as  uninter- 
esting to  the  ordinary  traveller  as  any 
peasant  in  Europe  "  Hut  this  is  merely  to 
note  the  surface  of  things.  Below,  he  is 
"  patient, obedient,  brave, ajui  hardy,  con- 
tent with  little,  easily  disciplined,  and  as 
ready  to  die  on  the  field  of  battle  as  the 
Turk.  .  .  .  Outside  of  his  purely  mate- 
rial interests,  religion  is  the  only  thing  he 
has  to  think  about.  It  is  only  on  this  side 
that  his  character  has  any  chance  to  de- 
velop and  race  characteristics  to  show 
themselves.  He  is  ignorant,  he  is  super- 
stitious. He  is  often  immoral.  Hut  he  is 
intensely  religious.  .  .  .  The  idea  of  ex- 
piation for  sin  by  voluntary  suffering,  as 
Christ  suffered  for  the  sins  of  the  world, 
is  perhaps  the  most  general  and  most 
characteristic  of  all  their  religious  ideas." 
He  is,  in  fine,  "The  most  original  pea- 
sant in  Europe." Who  Ftars  to  Speak 

0/1798  ?  is  the  trumpet  call  with  which 
Mr.  William  O'Brien  heralds  the  ap- 
proaching Centenary  of  the  Irish  Rebel- 
lion. We  learn  that  patriots  are  to  cross 
the  sea  in  their  thousands  in  order  to 
swell  the  chorus  of  retrospective  hatred. 
The  passages  dealing  with  the  rebellion 
itself  are  more  profitable  reading  than 
the  declamatory  exhortations  of  the 
beginning  ;  and,  pariial  as  the  historical 
t>ortion  of  the  paper  may  be,  it  is  well 
for  Englishmen  to  read  anew  the  Irish- 
man's version  of  what  to  him  is  certainly 
VHistoire  (Pun  Crime. 

The  National  Review.— Lord  Farrer 
and  L.  J.  Maxse's  Coprcdion  is  a  political 
article  suggesting  a  readjustment  of  the 
present  Cabinet.  The  most  notable 
changes   proposed  are  those  by  which 


Lord  Cromer  should  be  appointed 
Foreign  Secretary,  Sir  Edward  Clarke 
Secretary  of  State,  and  Mr.  Arnold-Fur- 

ster  Secretary  for  War. Dr.  William 

Barry  publishes  the  admirable  paper  on 
liui'ke  which  he  read  to  the  Irish  Literary 
Society  last  Autumn. 

XokTH  American  Review.  Decem- 
ber.— Professor  Ix)mbroso  contributc» 
an  article  in  elucidation  of  the  reasons 
Why  Homicide  has  Increased  in  the 
United  States.  The  crudity  of  civilisa- 
tion in  the  newer  settlements,  the  influ- 
ence of  climate,  and,  above  all,  the  large 
percentage  of  negi-oes  in  the  population, 
are  the  principal  explanations  he  has  set 
forth.  The  paper  contains  much  useful 
statistical  information  with  regard  to 
crime  in  general. England's  Absorp- 
tion of  Egypt^  by  the  Hon.  Frederic  C. 
Penfield,  is  an  authoritative  record  of 
the  services  to  civilisation  England  has 
rendered  in  Egypt. 

The  Forum. — Mr.  James  Bryce,  in  an 
impartial  and  friendly  article,  lays  stress 
on  the  dangers  America  would  risk  by 

an  adventurous  foreign  policy. Mr. 

Gustav  Kobb^  contributes  an  enthusiastic 
appreciation  of  Hauptmann.  "  He  is," 
we  are  told,  "  the  greatest  figure  in  Ger- 
man literature—perhaps,  in  all  literature 
— to-day.  He  is  the  one  living  poet  who 
is  also  a  born  writer  of  plays ;  the  one 
living  master  of  realism  who  is  also  a 
master  of  idealism." 

The  Arena. — The  December  number 
of  this  review  contains  an  interesting 
letter  by  M.  Camille  Flammarion  de- 
scribing his  spiritualistic  experiences  at 
the  hands  of  Eusapia  Paladino.  He 
concludes  the  letter  with  some  attempt 
to  account  for  the  phenomena  descril>ed 
— "A  combination,  difRcult  to  analyse, 
of  physical  and  psychic  forces."  Such 
facts,  he  urges,  "however  extravagant 
they  may  appear,  deserve  to  enter  the 
domain  of  scientific  investigation.  It  is 
even  probable  that  they  may  powerfully 
help  towards  the  elucidation  of  the 
problem,  for  us  supreme,  of  the  nature  of 
the  human  soul." 


Eiiitnr  :   F.  OkTMANS. 


TOM. 

Maries  depuis  peu  de  mois,  d6sireux  d'6tendre  leurs  belles 
relations,  de  "grimper,"  comme  on  dit,  les  jeunes  epoux 
Fr6minet  ne  furent  pas  m^diocrement  flatt6s  quand,  vers  la 
fin  d'aout,  ils  re9urent  du  baron  et  de  la  baronne  de  Pr6corbin 
une  invitation  a  venir  passer  quarante-huit  heures  chez  eux,  a 
I'occasion  de  Touverture  de  la  chasse. 

Chasseur,  le  petit  Fr6minet  ne  I'fitait  guere.  Ses  exploits  en 
cette  mati&re  se  bornaient  a  quelques  coups  de  fusil  de-ci  de- 
la,  et  sans  grand  succ^s.  U  en  savait  assez  cependant  pour 
tirer  sur  le  gibier  plutot  que  sur  ses  compagnons  de  sport. 
Maladroit,  mais  pas  dangereux. 

D'ailleurs,  le  general  baron  de  Pr6corbin  avait  6t6  son  grand 
chef  aux  dernifercs  manoeuvres  ou  Fr6minet  pivotait  en  qualite 
de  sous-lieutenant  de  r6serve.  Cette  invitation  prenait  done  a 
ses  yeux  I'apparence  d'un  ordre  sup6rieur.  L'envie  lui  serait 
venue  dc  la  refuser  qu'il  n'eut  pu  s'imaginer  en  avoir  le  droit. 

Pas  commode,  le  g6n6ral.  Parler  bref,  moustaches  raides, 
cocardier  fini.  Mais  cette  rudesse  ne  tenait  pas  devant  la 
baronne,  plus  autoritaire  encore  que  son  mari  et  qui,  sans  en 
avoir  I'air,  le  pliait  a  toutes  ses  volont6s.  Pas  commode,  non 
plus,  cette  grande  femme  s^che,  noire,  osseuse,  a  moustaches, 
veritable  cheval  de  bataille.  Si  bien  qu'alajoiede  Tinvitation 
re9ue,  se  mSlait,  dans  Tame  timide  des  petits  Fr6minet,  une 
anxi6t6  vague,  une  crainte  ind6tinissable  d'etre  les  hotes  de  gens 
si  imposants,  si  r6barbatifs. 

Aussi,  pour  faire  bonne  figure  en  cette  redoutable  ^preuve, 
rien  ne  fut-il  n6glig6.  Fr6minet  s'acheta  un  fusil  neuf,  un 
Greener, — cahbre  12,  double  verrou,  6jecteur  perfectionn6  — 
enfin   I'arme  parfaite,   tuant    "net   et   loin" — comme    dit    le 


4l6  COSMOPOLIS. 

prospectus  agr6ment6  de  Timage  d'un  lievre  cribl^  de  plomb 
el  d6talant  quand  meme  a  toute  vitesse,  Tair  guilleret.  Son 
tailleur  anglais  lui  sculpta  un  costume  de  chasse  latest  fashioih 
a  carreaux  suaves,  a  larges  culottes.  Des  bas  en  grosse  laine 
quadrill6e,  de  forts  souliers  recouverts  de  guetres  en  drap 
chamois,  montant  a  mi-mollet,  un  chapeau  de  feutre  mou  ornc 
d'une  plume  de  faisan — d6ja ! — compl6taient  Tattirail  du  parfait 
chasseur.  La  petite  Fr6minet,  elle,  se  commanda  deux  toilettes 
de  soir  exquises,  plus  deux  robes  "  tailleur "  qui  moulaient 
ses  formes  encore  greles,  mais  pleines  de  promesses. 

La  veille  du  depart,  tout  6tait  pret.  Une  seule  question 
restait  encore  pendante,  question  grave  :  emm^nerait-on  ou 
n'emmfenerait-on  pas  Tom  ? 

Tom  6tait  un  grand  chien  marron,  crois6  pointer  et  Saint- 
Germain,  d'un  modde  superbe,  sup6rieur  comme  nez,  mais 
d'education  cyn6g6tique  plus  qu'incomplfete.  Un  de  ces 
chiens  a  effet  qu'on  admire  avant  une  chasse,  qu'on  rosse 
pendant  et  qu'on  vend  apres.  Bon  garcpon,  d'ailleurs,  sociable, 
caressant,  affectueux — trop  affectueux  meme — car  il  t^moignait 
a  Fr6minet  une  tendresse  telle  qu'il  en  devenait  insuppor- 
table, ne  le  quittant  pas  d'une  seconde,  toujours  dans  ses 
jambes,  hurlant  et  g^missant  dfes  qu'il  n'6tait  plus  la.  Pour 
6viter  ces  concerts  aga9ants,  Fr6minet  avait  du  laisser  Tom 
p6n6trer  dans  son  intimity.  II  avait  ses  entries  au  salon,  a  la 
salle  a  manger ;  il  couchait  dans  une  pi^ce  voisine  de  la 
chambre  de  son  maitre.  Peu  a  peu,  il  6tait  devenu  chien 
d'appartement,  choy6,  caress6,  engraissant  d6j^  de  fa9on 
inqui^tante. 

—  Emmener  Tom  !  mais  tu  n'y  songes  pas,  ma  ch6rie  ! 
disait  Fr6minet.  Dans  ces  grandes  chasses-Ia,  on  marche  en 
ligne,  avec  un  rabatteur  entre  chaque  chasseur.  En  pareil 
cas,  un  chien  est  plus  nuisible  qu'utile  ;  et  puis  les  perdreaux 
sont  si  sauvages,  maintenant...  Coureur  comme  il  est,  Tom  les 
ferait  filer  a  un  kilometre.  Non  !  Non  !  je  ne  Temminerai 
pas  1 

—  Un  si  beau  chien  !  ripostait  Mme  Freminet  ;  tout  le 
monde  I'admirerait,  te  I'envierait !  Voyons,  mon  ami  !  Etre 
invit6  a  la  chasse  une  fois  par  hasard ;  avoir  un  chien  de 
chasse  superbe...  et  le  laisser  chez  soi  1    Cost  insens^  I 


TOM.  417 

—  Et  ou  le  mettrons-nous,  s'il  te  plait,  quand  nous  serons  a 
Prtcorbin  ?  Tu  ne  t'imagines  pas  qu'on  le  laissera  entrer  au 
salon,  comme  nous  faisons  ici  ?  La  g^nerale  a  horreur  des 
animaux  et  le  g^n^ral  ne  jure  que  par  elle.  II  faudra  enfermer 
Tom  au  chenil,  avec  les  autres  chiens...  Tu  vois  ga  d'ici  : 
Tom  au  chenil,  avec  d'autres  chiens  ! 

—  Pourquoi  pas  ? 

—  Et  moi  ?  Comment  fera-t-il  pour  se  passer  de  moi  ? 
Faudra-t-il  que  j'y  aille  aussi,  au  chenil,  pour  lui  tenir  com- 
pagnie  ?...  Non  1  je  n'emmfenerai  pas  Tom  ! 

—  Mais,  mon  ami,  ce  qui  Texaspfere,  cette  pauvre  bete,  c'est 
d'etre  seul.  Dans  le  chenil,  il  y  aura  d'autres  chiens.  II  sera 
en  soci^t^.  Tu  sais  comme  il  est  sociable  !  II  aura  vite  fait 
connaissance.  D'ailleurs,  j'irai  le  voir  a  Tarriv^e,  le  caresser 
lui  porter  des  friandises.  Je  lui  dirai :  "  Sois  sage,  mon  ami  ! 
Nous  sommes  la,  tout  prfes,  dans  la  belle  maison..."  II  me 
comprendra  !  il  est  si  intelligent ! 

—  Non!  Tom  nous  causerait  mille  ennuis.  II  nous  ren- 
drait  ridicules,  grotesques...  Ce  serait  une  jolie  entree  dans  le 
monde 1 

—  Je  ne  me  soucie  pas  d'aller  m'amuser,  moi,  pendant  que 
cette  pauvre  bfite  restera  ici  seule  a  s'ennuyer,  a  pleurer  toute 
la  journ^e  !    Je  n'irais  plutot  pas  ! 

—  Tu  es  foUe  ! 

—  Et  toi  6goiste,  cruel,  sans  coeur  !... 

—  Germaine  ! 

—  Tu  veux  me  faire  de  la  peine  ! 

—  Germaine  1 

—  Emmine-le  done,  ce  bon  Tom!...  Vois!  il  nous 
regarde  !  il  nous  comprend  ! 

En  effet,  assis  sur  son  derrifere,  intrigu6  par  les  6clats  de  voix 
et  les  gestes,  Tom  regardait,  6coutait...  Comprenait-il,  comme 
Tafiirmait  Mme  Fr^minet  ?  Peut-etre.  En  tout  cas,  chaque 
fois  que  son  nom  6tait  prononc6,  sa  fine  queue  s'agitait 
d'un  mouvement  oscillatoire,  raclant  le  tapis  comme  une 
brosse  k  enlever  les  miettes. 

—  Non  !  non  !  je  ne  Temmenerai  pas!  C'est  mon  dernier 
mot  I 

l^e  dernier  mot  des   hommes   n'est    souvent  que  I'avant- 


4lS  COSMOPOLIS. 

dernier,  quand  une  femme  se  m^le  de  substituer  Tun  a  I'autre. 
Comment  la  petite  Mme  PY^minet  s'y  prit-elle  pour 
modifier  la  manifere  de  voir  de  son  mari  et  Tamener  a  une 
resolution  diam^tralement  oppos6e  a  celle  qu'il  avait  prise  ? 
Mystfere  ! — Toujours  est-il  que,  le  lendemain,  les  deux  jeunes 
gens,  irr^prochablement  mis,  tenant  en  main  de  d^licieux  bags 
anglais  en  cuir  jaune  et  d'autres  menus  objets  de  voyage, 
montaient  dans  le  train  a  destination  de  Beaugency...  avec 
Tom.  Pour  n'etre  pas  obliges  de  le  mettre  dans  Thorribie 
cage,  ils  avaient  du  louer  le  compartiment  tout  entier.  C'6tait 
pour  rien !  Mais  la  petite  Mme  Fr6minet  exultait  de  sa 
victoire — et  Tom,  installs  d'un  bond  sur  les  coussins,  regardait 
avec  cette  attention  fi^vreuse  des  chiens  en  d6placement  le 
paysage  fuyant  aux  portieres,  et  laissait  pendre  ou  ravalait 
alternativement  sa  belle  langue  rose. 


Le  chateau  de  Pr^corbin  s'616ve  au  milieu  d'un  beau  pare, 

pr6s  d'un  6tang.     II  est  d'aspect  imposant  pt  solide.     Autour, 

la  Sologne  plate,  avec  ses  longues  routes  aux  ondulations  h 

peine  sensibles,   ses    bois    de    pins    serr6s,   ses    mares  —  les 

marchaiSf  comme  on  dit  la-bas — dess6ch6es  pendant  la  belle 

saison,  ses  vignes  r6guliferes,  ses  maigres  champs  de  pommes 

de  terre  et  ses  plants  de  topinambours.     Pays  m^lancolique 

et  monotone  par  les  ciels  gris,  mais  d'une  po6sie  subtile  d^s 

que  le  soleil  dore   les  bruyferes  roses,  toutes  bourdonnantes 

d'abeilles  et  embaum^es  de  senteurs  de  miel.     Pays  de  chasse, 

avant  tout.     Le  mot  de  Sologne  prononc6  devant  le  moindre 

discipTe  de   Saint-Hubert   suffit    a    le    mettre   en   Ebullition. 

Dans  ces  plaines  b6nies,  sous  ces  petits  bois  rapproch6s,  on 

trouve  en   effet  des   reserves  admirables,  des  gibiers  varies ; 

"  de  la  rouge  et  de  la  grise  "  ;  on  y  pent  "  chasser  toute  I'ann^e 

devant  soi,"  ce  qui,  comme  nul  ne  Tignore, 

Est  le  bonheur 
Du  vrai  chasseur  ! 

Comme  de  coutume,  le  g6n6ral  baron  de  Prdcorbin  avait 
invite,  pour  I'ouverture,  les  chatelains  de  son  voisinage 
imm^diat,  cinq  ou  six  au  plus,  mais  tireurs  de  premier  ordre 
^t  "  mettaqt  daqs  leur  poche "   nos  plus  fameux  tueurs  de 


TOM.  419 

pigeons.  Tous  solides,  hauts  en  coiileur,  le  verbe  sonore, 
aimant  la  chasse  pour  la  chasse  et  n'ayant  gufere  d'aiitre 
sujet  de  conversation.  Les  femmes,  elles,  effac6es,  d'^16gance 
restreinte,  subissant  avec  une  resignation  exemplaire  la  mono- 
tonie  des  mdmes  sujets  6ternellement  trait6s.  Seuls,  parmi  ces 
elements  du  terroir,  les  petits  Fr^minet  devaient  reprdsenter 
le  contingent  parisien.  Aussi  leur  arrivee  ^tait-elle  attendue 
avec  une  curiosity  ou  ne  se  mdlait,  d'ailleurs,  aucune  sym- 
pathie. 

Quand  ils  apparurent,  vers  les  cinq  heures  du  soir,  au  bout 
de  la  grande  Mie,  dans  le  landau  qui  avait  6t6  les  chercher  a 
la  gare,  la  soci6t6  solognotte  s'empressa  sur  le  perron. 

Sitot  la  voiture  arr^t^e  : 

—  Ah  I  Vous  avez  amen6  un  chien  ?  fit  la  grosse  voix  du 
g6n6ral.  ^ 

Fr6minet  rougit  jusqu'aux  oreilles. 

—  Je  pensais...  je  croyais... 

—  Sage,  au  moins  ?     Ne  court  pas  ?  insista  la  terribl  j  voix, 

—  Non,  mon  g6n6ral. 

—  Nous  verrons  9a,  demain,  et  si... 

D'un  bond,  ennuy6  de  son  immobilit6  prolongee,  sans 
attendre  m6me  que  la  portifere  fut  ouverte,  Tom  venait  de 
bondir  hors  de  la  voiture,  juste  aux  pieds  de  la  g6n6rale.  Ellc 
se  recula,  pinc6e,  6cartant  sa  robe. 

—  Tom!...  Tom  I...  veux-tu  bien  I...  criaient  a  la  fois  les 
deux  petits  Fr^minet,  debout  dans  le  landau,  rouges  comme  des 
pivoines. 

Heureux  de  se  trouver  en  si  brillante  compagnie,  libre  de 
toute  contrainte,  Tom,  toujours  6miriemment  sociable,  voulut 
manifester  sa  joie  a  la  manifere  ordinaire  des  chiens.  La  robe' 
de  la  g6n6rale  lui  parut  sans  doute  de  saveur  particuli^re,  il  la 
flaira  en  amateur  et... 

Fr6minet,  s'Slan^ant  de  la  voiture,  le  saisit  au  collier  et  put 
6viter  cette  insulte  a  rarm6e. 

Autoritaire  et  foudroyant,  le  regard  de  la  g^nirale  s'6tait 
tourn6  vers  son  mari. 

—  Au  chenil,  cette  b6te  !  au  chenil ! 

Un  domestique  s'avanpa  et  prit  Tom  par  la  laisse. 

T—  Avec  les  autres  chiens,   s'il  vous    plait !    balbutia    Mme 


420  COSMOPOLIS. 

Fr^minet,  pensant  a  la  sociability  de  Tom,  a  son  horreiir  pour 
la  solitude. 

—  Des  chiens  ?  mais  nous  n'en  avons  pas,  chere  madamei 
fit  le  g6n6ral.  Ma  femme  les  a  en  horreur...  Elle  ne  peut 
ni  les  voir  ni  les  entendre.  D'ailleurs,  seule,  la  bdte  n'en  sera 
que  mieux... 

Les  deux  Fr6minet  ^chang^rent  un  regard  d6sol6.  Tom 
seul  dans  le  chenil!     Qu'allait-il  se  passer,  6  mon  Dieu! 

Entrain^  par  le  domestique  vers  les  communs,  dont  on 
apercevait  les  batiments  en  brique  tout  voisins,  Tom  opposait 
une  resistance  6nergique.  Les  pattes  arc-bout6es,  le  cou 
gonfl6  par  le  collier,  les  yeux  hors  la  tete  et  d6sesp6r6ment 
attaches  sur  son  maitre,  il  avait  I'air  d'une  victime  men^  a 
Tabattoir.  II  disparut  cependant,  tandis  que  les  petits  Fr6- 
minet,  ahuris  par  cette  arriv6e  ridicule,  6taient  c6r6monieuse- 
ment  presentes  aux  botes  du  chateau. 

« 

A  peine  dans  la  chambre  destin6e  au  manage,  une  grande 
chambre  severe,  a  deux  lits,  au  rez-de-chauss6e,  Fr6minet  ^clata  : 

—  Je  te  Tavais  bien  dit.  Nous  allons  avoir  tous  les  ennuis 
du  monde  avec  Tom  !... 

—  Mais...  mon  ami... 

—  Cette  arriv6e  !  Nous  avons  6t6  grotesques. 

—  Bah  !  maintenant... 

—  Maintenant  ?  T'imagines-tu  que  tout  est  fini  ?  Seul,  dans 
ce  chenil,  il  va  hurler  comme  un  diable  ! 

—  Non  !  non  !  II  va  dormir  toute  la  nuit  et  demain  matin, 
a  la  premiere  heure,  j'irai... 

Une  cloche  se  mit  a  tinter  avec  une  voix  enrou6e.  Fr6minet 
regarda  la  pendule  : 

—  Sept  heures  un  quart  !  le  premier  coup...  Tautre,  un 
quart  d'heure  apr^s...  un  quart  d'heure  pour  nous  habiller  !... 
au  galop  !  au  galop  ! 

—  Je  n'aurai  jamais  le  temps,  g6mit  la  petite  Freminet. 

—  II  le  faut !  allons  !  allons  I 

Dans  rimmense  pidce  mal  6clair6e  de  deux  bougies,  ce  fut, 
pendant  un  quart  d'heure,  une  course  affol6e,  tripidante,  d'une 
(ualle  a  I'autre,  parmi  le  d6sordre  des  robes  et  des  vetement^i 


TOM.  421 

jetfe  sur  les  meubles.  La  g6n6rale  ne  Ty  ayant  point  engag^e, 
la  petite  Fr6minet  n'avait  pas  os6  amener  de  femme  de  chambre. 
Son  mari  Taida  comme  il  put ;  elle  aida  a  son  tour  son  mari  ; 
href,  grace  a  cet  ^change  de  bons  proc6d6s,  ils  furent  pr^ts 
a  temps,  mais  bien  juste,  a  la  fin  du  second  coup  de  cloche. 
Ils  se  pr6cipitferent  vers  le  salon.  On  les  attendait  pour  se 
mettre  a  table.  La  jolie  robe  de  la  petite  Fr6minet  devint  le 
point  de  mire  des  regards  de  ces  dames.  Un  observateur 
attentif  eut  remarqu6  que  par  derriere  elle  6tait  agraffe  de 
travers.  De  meme,  la  cravate  blanche  de  Fr6minet  6tait  toute 
chiffonn6e.  Effets  immanquables  d'une  hate  trop  grande  et 
d'un  trop  grand  affolement. 

Le  diner,  compost  de  plats  solides,  se  passa  sans  encombre. 
On  parla  chasse,  naturellement.  Les  petits  Fr6minet  furent 
silencieux  et  sympathiques.  Deux  ou  trois  fois,  brusquement 
interrompu  par  sa  femme,  le  g6n6ral  dut  renoncer  a  une 
phrase  commenc6e  et  lui  c6der  la  parole.  On  sentait  ce 
rude  homme  de  guerre  sous  Tentifere  domination  de  cette 
femelle  s^che  et  cassante ;  domination  qu'il  subissait,  mais 
dont  il  ne  voulait  pas  convenir.  Comme  les  etres  faibles,  il  se 
plaisait  a  parler  de  sa  force,  de  son  autorit6  :  "  Quand  j'ai  dit 
une  chose...  une  fois  que  j'ai  pris  une  r6solution..." 

Bref,  tout  s'6tait  bien  pass6,  et  les  Fr6minet  en  arrivaient 
presque  a  oublier  Tom,  quand,  au  dessert,  pendant  un  moment 
de  silence,  un  hurlement  plaintif,  prolong^,  s'61eva  dans  la 
nuit  crepusculaire  et  entra  par  les  fenetres  entr'ouvertes.  D'un 
bout  a  I'autre  de  la  table,  les  petits  Fr6minet  se  regardferent. 

—  Ah  !  ah  !  il  parait  que  votre  bete  ne  se  plait  pas  a 
Precorbin  ?  fit  la  terrible  voix  du  g6n6ral. 

—  J'espfere  pour  nos  nerfs  que  cette  musique  ne  va  pas 
continuer,  glapit  la  g6n6rale. 

Un  second  hurlement  s'61eva,  plus  long,  plus  d6soI6  que  le 
premier. 

Fr6minet  s'6tait  dress6. 

—  Si  vous  permettez,  g6n6ral,  je  vais  aller... 

—  Non  !  non  !  laissez-le  brailler  un  peu...  II  s'y  fera.  II  ne 
faut  jamais  c6der,  voyez-vous...  Ainsi,  moi,  quand  j'ai  d6cid(i 
Vine  chose,,. 


422  COSMOPOLIS. 

La  g6n6rale  se  leva,  coupant  la  parole  a  son  mari.  On 
passa  au  salon.  Le  coeur  battant,  Toreille  tendue  du  c6t6  du 
chenil,  comprenant  a  peine  ce  qui  se  disait  autour  d'eux, 
M.  et  Mme  Freminet  6taient  au  supplice.  lis  redoutaient 
un  nouveau  hurlement.  Par  bonheur,  il  n'en  fut  rien. 
Les  dames  sY*tablirent  en  rond  autour  de  la  chemin6e.  Les 
hommes  se  rendirent  au  fumoir.  La,  dans  la  vapeur  bleue 
des  cigares,  les  histoires  de  chasse  et  de  voisinage  refleurirent 
de  plus  belle,  non  sans  prendre  une  allure  grossiferement 
grivoise,  comme  il  est  d'habitude  constante  entre  hommes 
seuls  et  bien  61ev6s.  Accoud6  a  la  chemin6e,  le  g6n6ral 
d^veloppa  ses  theories  sur  le  commandement  6nergique  des 
chefs  et  Tob^issance  passive  des  subalternes.  Puis,  apr6s  une 
causerie  vague  et  bisexu6e  au  salon,  on  se  s6para  a  dix  heures 
et  demie,  heure  militaire.  II  fallait  se  preparer,  par  une  bonne 
nuit  de  sommeil,  aux  fatigues  du  lendemain. 

» 

Dans  leurs  lits  jumeaux,  les  jeunes  Fr6minet  sont  rassur6s. 
Tom,  sans  doute,  a  eu  un  moment  de  rivolte  ;  mais  il  a  bien 
vite  compris  la  situation  et  supporte  une  solitude  qui,  dans 
Tordinaire  de  la  vie,  lui  pfese  tant.  Bonne  et  brave  bete  ! 
Doutez,  aprfes  cela,  de  Tintelligence  des  chiens  ! 

—  Bonne  nuit,  ch6rie  !  murmure  Fr6minet. 

—  Bonsoir  1  susurre  la  jeune  femme. 

Et  ils  se  sont  tranquillement  endormis :  elle,  pensant  a  sa 
jolie  robe  et  aux  vilaines  moustaches  de  la  g6n6rale ;  lui,  se 
voyant  deja  dans  la  plaine,  en  train  de  faire  une  h6catombe 
de  perdreaux. 

Tout  a  coup,  d'un  mouvement,  ils  se  dressent  I'un  et  I'autre 
sur  leur  s6ant,  terrifies.  Est-ce  un  reve  ?  II  leur  semble 
entendre  le  mi^me  hurlement,  plaintif  et  d6sesp6r6,  le  hurle- 
ment de  Tom  ;  non...  ils  ne  se  trompent  pas  !  C'est  bien  lui  ! 
Ce  ne  peut  etre  que  lui  I  Seulement,  cette  fois,  la  voix  est 
moins  lointaine.     Elle  semble  tr6s  prfes  d'eux. 

—  L'animal  !  il  va  r6veiller  toute  la  maison  !...  s'6crie 
Fr6minet. 

Aga^ant,  formidable,  le  hurlement  reprend. 

—  U  s'est  done  6chapp6  du  chenil  ?  interroge  Mme  Fr6minet, 


TOM.  423 

—  On  le  dirait  centre  nos  fen^tres. 

—  II  nous  aura  sentis  !     Pauvre  b6te  ! 

D'un  bond,  Fr6minet  saute  de  son  lit,  court  a  la  fenetre, 
Touvre...  une  masse  marron  p6nfetre  comma  une  trombe, 
manquant  presque  de  le  renverser...  C'est  Tom,  essouffl<5, 
ahuri,  la  langue  pendante,  les  yeux  hors  la  t^te,  une  corde 
rompue  a  son  collier ;  Tom  qui  a  franchi  le  mur  du  chenil, 
un  mur  de  deux  metres  ;  Tom,  heureux,  fou  de  joie,  gamba- 
dant  par  la  chambre,  patinant  sur  le  parquet  provincialemenl 
cir6,  avec  de  petits  g6missements  de  satisfaction. 

—  Veux-tu  te  taire  !     Veux-tu  te  taire  ! 

Ah  1  bien  oui  !  Est  ce  qu'il  comprend  les  convenances 
mondaines,  le  brave  chien  ?  Est-ce  qu'il  a  quelque  respect 
pour  la  grosse  voix  du  g6n6ral,  les  nerfs  de  Mme  la 
baronne  de  Pr6corbin  ou  le  sommeil  de  leurs  invites  ?  II 
a  retrouv6  ses  maitres ;  il  les  sent,  il  les  tient,  il  les  l^che,  il 
saute  sur  les  deux  lits  jumeaux...  Et  Ton  voudrait  qu'il  ne 
manifestat  pas  sa  joie  !  qu'il  restat  tranquille  dans  un  coin 
comme  un  chien  de  faience  ?    AUons  done  ! 

II  faut  prendre  un  parti  cependant ;  une  telle  situation  ne 
peut  se  prolonger.  Mais  que  faire  ?  User  d'autoriti,  suivant 
les  principes  du  g6n6ral  ?...  Ramener  de  force  Tom  au  chenil  ? 
En  admettant  qu'on  le  put,  n'est-il  pas  certain  qu'il  recom- 
mencera  son  6pouvantable  vacarme  ou  s'6chappera  de  nou- 
veau  ? 

—  Gardons-la  done,  la  pauvre  bete,  conseille  la  petite 
Fr6minet.  II  couchera  sur  le  tapis,  bien  tranquille.  Demain 
matin,  a  la  premifere  heure,  tu  iras  le  promener  dans  le  pare... 
et  on  ne  se  doutera  de  rien  ! 

—  Mais  si  on  se  doute,  au  contraire  ?  Si  la  terrible  g6n6rale 
pense  qu'un  chien — cet  animal  maudit ! — a  passe  la  nuit  dans 
son  chateau,  a  dormi  sur  une  de  ses  carpettes  ? 

—  Eh  bien !  nous  nierons  obstin6ment.  Compte  sur  moi. 
Je  supporterai  le  choc. 

Pendant  ce  conciliabule,  Tom,  fatigue  et  rassure  tout  en- 
semble, avait  cesse  sa  course  foUe  a  travers  la  piece.  Comme 
s'il  eut  compris,  il  avait  flair6  une  descente  de  lit  et  tournait 
?n  rond  au-dessus,  la  tete  dans  la  direction  de  la  queue  —  ge 


424  COSMOPOLIS. 

qui,  comme  chacun  sait,  est  une  mani^e  fort  appr^ci^  des 
chiens  pour  se  mettre  en  posture  de  dormir. 

—  Oui  !  va !  couche-toi,  mon  ami  !  fit  la  petite  Fr6minet, 
tendrement. 

Fr6minet  ne  chercha  pas  a  protester. 

II  se  contenta  de  murmurer  en  se  remettant  au  lit : 

—  Et  il  faudra  que  je  me  Ifeve  demain  matin  a  cinq  heures... 
pour  cette  maudite  bete  ! 

« 

Le  lendemain,  en  effet,  avant  que  personne  ne  fut  6veill6  au 
chateau,  Fr^minet  endossait  son  impeccable  costume  de  chasse 
et  sortait,  par  la  fenetre,  suivi  de  Tom.  Le  pare  6tait  fort  joli 
et  cette  promenade  eut  6te  pleine  de  charmes  pour  le  jeune 
homme ;  mais  craignant  quelque  nouvelle  incartade  de  son 
chien,  il  avait  a  peine  dormi  et  se  sentait  peu  en  train.  Tom, 
au  contraire,  frais,  repose,  gambadait  joyeusement  par  les 
all6es. 

Au  bout  d'une  heure  de  promenade,  Fr6minet  s'en  retournait 
vers  le  chateau,  quand,  au  coin  d'un  taillis,  il  se  trouva  nez  a 
nez  avec  le  g6n6ral. 

—  D6ja  lev6  !  Bravo  !  habitude  de  regiment  !...  J'aime 
9a  !  fit  le  vieux  guerrier  en  lui  serrant  les  mains. 

'/Puis,  avisant  Tom  : 

—  II  mesemble  qu'il  a  braille  encore  un  peu  hier  ausoir, 
hein  ?     Bah  !     Bah  !     On  s'y  fera,  a  ce  chenil. 

Directement  interpelle,  Tom,  remnant  la  queue,  s'approchait 
avec  politesse  du  general.  Celui-ci,  le  caressant : 

—  Module  superbe!...  Nous  verrons  tout  a  I'heure  com- 
ment 9a  chasse...  Je  les  adore,  moi,  les  chiens...  j'en  aurais 
des  tas...  mais  ma  femme  ne  pent  pas  les  souffrir...  Je  suis 
bien  oblige  de  lui  c6der...  Oh  !  sur  ce  point  la,  seulement... 
car,  pour  tout  le  reste... 

II  battit  I'air  d'un  coup  de  canne  autoritaire  : 

—  II  faut  etre  le  maitre  chez  soi  !... 


Sitot  apr6s  le  dejeuner,  qui  fut  servi  a  dix  heures  praises,  on 
partit.  Fr6minet  ^tait  v6ritablement  6mu.  Comment  Tom 
{\llait-il   se  comporter   sous   les  yeux  de  tous  c^  cha9seur§ 


TOM,  425 

experts  et  passionn^s  ?    S'il  avail  os6,  il  ne  Teut  pas  emmen6. 
Mais  ou  le  laisser  ?    Ou  renfermer  ? 

11  faisait  un  temps  d'ouverture  id6al.  Pas  de  vent,  un  soleil 
discret.  Une  fois  sortis  du  pare,  les  chasseurs  se  mirent  en 
ligne,  un  rabatteur  entre  chaque  fusil,  les  gardes  aux  deux 
ailes.  Comme  seul  "chasseur  a  chien,"  Fr6minet  avail  6t<i 
plac£  au  centre,  a  cote  du  g6n6ral. 

—  En  avant !    cria  celui-ci  de  sa  voix  de  commandement. 
Et  la  longue  ligne  s'6branla. 

Les  premiers  coups  de  fusil,  assez  lointains,  n'6murent  pas 
Tom.  II  se  contenta  de  regarder,  de  dresser  les  oreilles  et 
reprit  tranquillement  sa  qu6te  devant  Fr6minet.  Mais,  peu 
d'instants  aprte,  comme  on  entrait  dans  une  vigne,  une  for- 
midable compagnie  de  perdreaux — des  perdreaux  d'61evage — 
se  leva  brusquement,  a  dix  mfetres...  Brrrou  !... 

Le  g£n6ral  et  Fr6minet  lach^rent  chacun  leurs  deux  coups. 
Un  perdreau  tomba  sous  le  plomb  du  g6n6ral ;  rien  ne  tomba 
sous  celui  de  Fr6minet.  Quant  a  Tom,  devant  cette  quantity 
inusit^e  de  volatiles,  il  resta  d'abord  stup6fait,  clou6  sur  place  ; 
puis,  d'un  coup,  excit6,  affol6,  perdant  tout  sentiment  de 
Tob^issance,  des  convenances  mdme,  il  se  mit  a  courir  a  travers 
la  vigne,  se  heurtant  aux  6chalas,  aux  fils  de  fer,  lesquels  com- 
mencferent  de  vibrer,  de  trembler  dans  toute  leur  longueur, 
comme  des  port6es  de  musique,  jusqu'aux  extr6mit6s  de  la  vigne. 
A  ce  bruit,  une,  deux,  trois  compagnies  de  perdreaux  s'envolfe- 
rent ;  deux  lidvres  filferent  par  les  cot^s...  Tout  le  gibier  avait 
vid6  I'enceinte. 

—  Tom!  Tom  !...  ici  !...  Veux-tu  bien  !...  hurlait  d6ses- 
p6r6ment  Fr6minet. 

Le  g^n^ral  poussa  un  "  Sacrebleu  !  '*  significatif .  Quant  a 
I'autre  voisin  de  Fr6minet,  un  grand  sec  a  moustaches,  il 
grogna  entre  ses  dents,  mais  assez  haut  pour  6tre  entendu  : 

—  Quand  on  a  une  b6te  pareille,  on  la  laisse  au  chenil ! 

Au  chenil !  il  n'eut  pas  demand^  mieux,  le  pauvre  Fr6minet ! 
II  se  contenta  de  s'excuser  de  son  mieux  : 

—  Je  ne  sais  pas  ce  qu'il  a  aujourd'hui...  c'est  la  premiere 
fois  qu'il  me  fait  9a. 

Et  autres  phrases  analogues,  voilant  mal  sa  confusion. 
Mais    dfes  que;  Tom  fut  revenu  aupr^s  de  lui,  pour  eviter 


426  COSMOPOLIS. 

le  retour  d'un  pareil  scandale,  il  lui  donna  d'abord  une  forte 
racl6e,  puis  le  mit  a  la  laisse  et  le  confia  a  son  porte-carnier 
pendant  tout  le  reste  de  la  chasse.  Celle-ci  fut  trfes  fructueuse 
pour  tout  le  monde,  excepte  pour  Fr6minet.  Malgr^  la 
perfection  de  son  Greener,  il  ne  tua  ni  loin,  ni  prfes,  ni  net  : 
ses  exploits  se  bornferent  a  un  lifevre  et  en  collaboration 
avec  ses  voisins,  encore  !  Quant  a  Tom,  tirant  sur  sa  laisse, 
bondissant  en  avant  a  chaque  pi^ce  levee,  il  avait,  a  la  fin  de  la 
journ6e,  presque  d6tach6  du  tronc  le  bras  du  malheureux 
porte-carnier.  Le  soir,  en  rentrant  au  chateau,  il  6tait  mort  de 
fatigue  et  se  laissa  mettre  au  chenil  sans  protester. 

—  Cette  fois,  pensa  Fr^minet,  en  le  voyant  tomber  comme 
une  masse  sur  la  paille,  il  va  nous  laisser  tranquilles  jusqu'a 
demain  matin  1 

—  Eh  bien  !  comment  cela  s'est-il  pass^  ?  demanda  Mme 
Fr6minet  a  son  mari,  une  fois  qu'ils  furent  seuls  dans  leur 
chambre  pour  s'habiller  avant  le  diner. 

II  lui  raconta  Tattitude  deplorable  de  Tom,  sa  sarabande 
insens6e  parmi  les  vignes,  Tobligation  ou  il  s'^tait  trouve,  lui, 
Fr^minet,  de  Tattacher  pendant  toute  la  journ6e. 

—  Tu  aurais  pu,  au  moins,  la  faire  reconduire  au  chateau, 
cette  pauvre  b^te ! 

—  Et  ou  I'aurait-on  mise  ?  au  chenil  ?  il  n'y  reste  pas.  Au 
salon,  avec  les  dames  ?  Non,  vois-tu,  j*ai  6t6  grotesque...  gro- 
tesque... et  par  ta  faute !  T'entdter  a  vouloir  I'emmener 
quand  mdme ! 

—  J'avais  cru... 

—  Tu  avais  cru  !...  Tu  avais  cru  !...  Enfin,  habillons-nous... 
nous  n'avons  que  le  temps  ! 

Comme  la  veille,  ils  arrivferent  les  derniers  au  salon.  Le  diner 
fut  bruyant.  Les  p6rip6ties  di verses  de  la  journ^ealiment^rent 
la  conversation.  Ou  eut  la  d^licatesse  de  ne  pas  faire  allusion 
aux  escapades  de  Tom ;  ces  Nemrods  triomphants  se  mon- 
trerent  g6n6reux.     Mais  il  6tait  de&nitivement  jug6. 

On  se  s6para  de  bonne  heure. 

—  A  demain!  fit  le  general.  Du  reste,  nous  serons  tous 
la  au  moment  de  votre  depart. 

Et  il  ajouta  en  riant : 


TOM.  427 

—  Quaiit  a  voire  bete,  elle  en  a  sa  "  claque."  Pas  de  danger 
qu'elle  nous  fasse  de  la  musique  ce  soir... 

H^las  !  c'est  en  vain  que  Ton  avait  compt6  sur  la  fatigue 
pour  dompler  I'imp^tueux  et  trop  sociable  animal.  M.  et 
Mme  Fr6ininet  ne  dormaient  pas  depuis  un  quart  d'heure, 
quand  le  fatal  hurlement  s'^leva  dans  la  nuit,  plus  long,  plus 
plaintif  que  la  veille. 

—  Encore  lui  1 

—  (^2L  vient  du  chenil,  cette  fois  ! 

—  C'est  moins  fort ! 

—  Mais  plus  aga9ant ! 

—  II  va  venir  ici,  comme  hier  ! 

—  Pense  pas.    Trop  fatigu6  pour  franchir  le  mur. 

—  II  va  r6veiller  tout  le  monde  ! 

—  Nous  ne  pouvons  pas  le  laisser  brailler  comme  ya  ! 

—  Que  faire  ? 

—  II  n'y  a  qu'un  moyen,  fit  la  petite  Frt^minet...  Va  le 
chercher,  et  amfene-le  !... 

—  Que  j'aille  ?... 

—  Oui  !... 

Les  hurlements  se  multipliaient,  d^sol^s,  fendant  Tame, 
irritant  les  nerfs. 

—  Mais  va  !  va  done  !...  sinon,  nous  sommes  perdus. 

—  Sale  bdte  !  murmurait  Fr6minet,  tout  en  enfilant  son 
pantalon...  sale  bSte  ! 

II  ouvrit  avec  precaution  la  fen^tre,  sauta  a  terre,.  disparut 
dans  la  nuit.  Les  yeux  fixes,  I'oreille  tendue,  jolie  a  ravir  en 
son  d6sordre  nocturne,  la  jeune  femme  6coutait.  Elle  entendit 
les  pas  presses  de  son  mari  s'61oigner...  Tout  a  coup,  les  aboie- 
ments  de  Tom  changferent  de  nature :  de  lamentables,  ils 
devinrent  joyeux.  II  fallait  toujours  qu'il  manifestat,  le 
miserable,  de  fagon  ou  d'autre  !...  Puis,  un  long  silence,  trop 
long  mdme,  car  Mme  Fr6minet  commen9ait  a  s'inqui6ter. 
Enfin,  elle  entendit,  sur  le  gravier,  le  bruit  d'un  pas  plus  lent 
et  plus  lourd ;  son  mari  parut  dans  I'encadrement  de  la 
fenetre — ^avec  Tom...  les  pattes  en  I'air,  dans  ses  bras,  comme 
un  b^b^. 

—  II  ne  pouvait  faire  un  pas...  j'ai  du  le  porter,  fit-il  en 
p6n6trant  dans  la  chambre.     Ce  qu'il  est  lourd  !... 


428  COSMOPOLIS. 

—  Pauvre  chdri  !  munnura  Mme  Fr^minet. 

Etait-ce  a  son  inari  ou  a  Tom  que  s'adressait  cette  exclama- 
tion pitoyable  ? 

L'homme  se  remit  au  lit,  Tanimal  se  roula  en  rond  sur  la 
carpette,  la  bougie  fut  souffl6e  et  le  trio  prit  quelques  heurcs 
d'un  repos  bien  gagn£. 

» 

Le  lendemain  matin,  ainsi  que  I'avait  dit  le  gendTal,  tout  le 
monde  assistait  au  depart  des  Parisiens.  Comme  a  Tarriv^e, 
on  6tait  group6  sur  le  perron.  Mme  Fr^minet  faisait  ses 
adieux. 

—  Et  M.  Fr6minet,  il  ne  vient  pas  ?  demanda  la  grosse 
voix  du  g6n6ral. 

—  Mon  mari  ?...  ah  !  le  void. 

Freminet  arrivait,  tenant  Tom  en  laisse.  Pour  qu'on  ne 
le  vit  pas  dans  la  chambre,  il  avait  dii,  comme  la  veille,  le 
promener  dfes  le  petit  matin.  Le  pauvre  gar^on  6tait  litt6rale- 
ment  6reint6.  Quant  a  Tom,  les  douceurs  du  tapis  n'avaient 
pas  suHi  a  effacer  en  lui  la  courbaturede  la  veille.  II  marchait 
penaud,  la  queue  basse,  les  pattes  6cart6es. 

Au  m6me  moment,  la  voiture  tournait,  venait  se  placer 
devant  le  perron. 

—  L'omnibus  ?  dit  le  g6n6ral  ;  j'avais  command^  le  landau ! 
La  voix  sfeche  de  la  g6n6rale  s'61eva  : 

—  J'ai  fait  changer  les  ordres...  des  provisions  a  rapporter  de 
Beaugency. 

Le  g^n^ral  ne  r^pliqua  pas 

Les  Fr6minet  montferent  en  voiture.  P6niblement,  labo- 
rieusement,  s'aidant  du  marchepied  sur  lequel  ses  pattes  glis- 
saient,  Tom  y  grimpa  a  son  tour. 

—  Eh  bien,  dit  le  g6n6ral,  elle  s'y  est  faite  au  chenil,  votre 
bete  !    Je  vous  le  disais  bien  !... 

Puis,  tout  bas,  a  Fr6minet,  en  lui  donnant  I'ultime  poign6e 
de  mains : 

—  Voyez-vous,  mon  cher,  les  chiens,  c'est  comme  les 
femmes  :  il  ne  faut  jamais  leur  c^der  ! 

Jacques  Normand. 


LES  IDEES  ET  LES  MCHUR^. 


LA  TRANSFORMATION  DE  L'lDKE  DE  DIEU. 


DIALOGUE. 

Un  Moine.        Un  Voyageur. 


Lc  MoiNE  a  conduit  le  Voyageur  dans  la  vis.te  d*un  an^ 
tique  couvent,  dressc  dans  les  Aipes  dcptiis  les  premiers  sicclcs 
du  Christianisme,  Au  moment  on  la  visile  s'achei'e,  un 
orage,  arri%'ant  du  fond  de  la  vallce,  delate  avec  violence. 
Impossible  de  sortir  sous  Inverse,  de  regagner  I'hdtel  voisin  par 
les  sentiers  qu'en  un  instant  la  pluie  a  changt^s  en  torrents. 
Les  deux  hommes,  qui  venaient  d'ouvrir  la  porte  cocherej 
rentrent  ensemble  dans  une  sorte  de  grand  salon,  de  forme 
oblongue,  meubli  de  vieux  fauteuils  sculpti%  de  vieux  bahuts 
tri'S  beaux,  d'une  table  allong^e  entre  deux  rangees  de  chaises, 
anciennes  et  belles  comme  les  fauteuils  et  les  bahuts, 

Le  Moine.  (//  approche  de  la  quarantaine :  tile  cvtacic^e, 
pensive,  dont  la  robe  des  Bincdictins  fait  ressortir  tardentc 
graviti\)  —  Vous  voici  forc6,  Monsieur,  de  vous  attarder  dans 
notre  maison  plus  longtemps  que  vous  ne  le  pensiez. 

Le  Voyageur  {m^me  dge ;  figure  inquieie  et  nervense  d'ar^ 
tiste  on  de  penseur),  —  Si  je  le  regrelte,  mon  Pfere,  c'est  unique- 
ment  a  cause  de  la  peiie  de  temps  qui  en  resultera  pour  vous. 
(//  se  dirige  vers  'une  des  fenetres,  observe  pendant  qnelques 
secondes  la  valUe  submergee,  icoute  le  grondement  presque  continu 

*  Voir,  entre  uutres  ouvraj^cs  rcceiits  qui  out  fourni  quclquc  niaticrc  a  cc 
dialogue,  rEsquhsc  (Vunv  philosophic  dc  la  rcli^iotif  iVapres  la  psychologic  ct 
Vhisioirc^  par  M.  Augustc  Sabaticr,  et  la  Volontc  dc  vivir,  par  M.  Victor 
Charboiinel. 

VOL.   IX.— NO.  XXVI,  « 


430  cosMOPOLis. 

iln  ionncrre ;  puis  il  revient  aiipres  du  MoiNE,  qui  s*est  assis  au 
bout  lie  la  longtic  table  et  s'assied  vis-d-vis  de  liii,)  Je  ne  me 
suis  jamais  arrets  dans  un  de  ces  couvents,  anciens  comme  Ic 
votre,  ou  depuis  des  sifecles  s'abrite  la  foi,  sans  6prouver  je  ne 
sais  quel  sentiment  de  douceur  et  de  paix.  Quelquefois,  je  me 
suis  permis  d'adresser  aux  solitaires  une  question  que  je 
voadrais  bien  vous  adresser  aussi,  mon  Pfere.  Cette  paix  qui 
semble  enclose  dans  vos  vieux  murs,  —  p6nelre-t-elle  j usque 
dans  vos  coeurs  ?  Enveloppe-t-elle  vos  ames  comme  elle  parait 
envelopper  les  choses  ? 

Le  Moine  {avec  un  regard  limpide  et  si'tr).  —  Certainement. 

Le  VOYAGEUR.  —  Elle  est  entr6e  en  vous  des  I'instant  ou 
vous  avez  prononc6  vos  voeux  ? 

Le  Moine.  —  El'e  entre  en  nous,  d^s  Tinstant  ou  nous  nous 
confondons  en  Dieu. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Se  confondre  en  Dieu  !...  Sc  confondre 
en  Dieu  !...  C'est  une  belle  parole,  mon  Pere,  que  vous  venez 
de  prononcer...  Se  confondre  en  Dieu  !...  Pour  cela,  ne  faut- 
il  pas  un  miracle  ? 

Le  Moine.  —  De  tels  miracles,  la  Grace  en  accomplit  tous 
les  jours  I 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Se  confondre  en  Dieu  I...  Noble  d&ir, 
qu'eprouvent  en  une  heure  de  leur  vie  tous  ceux  qui  pensent  ou 
qui  re.ent,  tous  ceux  qui  souffrent  du  monde  ou  de  I'lnfini. 
Cest  lui,  peut-etre,  qui  pousse  au  cloitre  les  ames  les  plus  re- 
cueillies.  Mais  il  n'est  point  r6serv6  a  ceux-la  seuls  qui  se 
consacrent  a  Dieu  :  il  hante  bien  des  coeurs  inquiets,  qui  res- 
tent  dans  le  sifecle  sans  y  touver  la  paix,  sans  y  prendre  aucun 
plaisir. 

Le  Moine.  —  Pourquoi  nc  viennent-ils  pas  h  nous  ?  Le 
chemin  est  facile,  la  porte  ouverte. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Pour  franchir  votre  seuil,  il  faut  la  foi. 
Ne  Ta  pas  qui  veut. 

Le  Moine.  —  Chacun  pent  s'efforcer  de  Tacqu^rir. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Ne  venez-vous  pas  de  dire,  ou  a  peu  pr^, 
qu'elle  est  un  don  de  la  Grace  ? 

Le  Moine.  —  Notre  volont6  pent  aider  la  Grace. 

Le  Voyageur  {avec  un  peu  dironie).  —  Qui,  je  sais :  ce 
melange  est  Un  des  mysti^res  de  la  thtologie,  une  de  ses  ing£- 


LES   IDEES   ET   LES   MCEURS.  43I 

nieuses  inventions...  (Avec  plus  de  s^rieux,)  En  dehors  de  la 
speculation,  dans  Tordre  pratique,  il  est  difficile  de  le  com- 
prendre...  Pour  se  confondre  en  Dieu,  mon  Pfere,  ou  simple- 
ment  pour  se  rapprocher  de  Dieu,  —  il  faut  du  moins  croire 
en  Lui. 

Le  Moine.  —  Qui  done  oserait  douter  de  son  existence  ? 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Hdas  !  un  peu  tout  le  monde,  aujour- 
d'hui,  meme  ceux  qui  le  cherchent  avec  bonne  volonte,  meme 
ceux  qui  le  d^fendent  avec  ardeur. 

Le  Moine.  —  Dans  tous  les  siecles,  il  y  a  eu  des  impies  : 
aveugles  qui  nient  le  soleil  parce  qu'ils  ne  le  voient  pas. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  En  notre  sitele,  leur  incroyance  a  pris 
une  couleur  spiciale. 

Le  Moine.  —  Je  vois  :  vous  allez  me  parler  de  la  science. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  En  effet ;  il  faut  bien  compter  avec  elle, 
n'est-ce  pas  ? 

Le  Moine.  —  II  faut  surtout  lui  rappeler  ses  limites  quand 
elle  les  oublie. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Ses  limites  I  EUes  reculent  d'un  siecle  au 
suivant,  d'une  ann6e  a  I'autre  !  Ses  limites,  qui  pourrait  les 
marquer  ?  Elle  a  envahi  jusqu'a  la  th6ologie,  —  ancilla  scien" 
tite,  aujourd'hui,  servante  a  son  tour,  apr^s  un  si  long  regne. 

Le  Moine  (pensif).  —  La  science...  Saint  Thomas  n'6tait-il 
pas  un  grand  savant  ? 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Les  savants  de  notre  temps  ne  lui  res* 
semblent  gufere,  —  ni  m6me  les  th6ologiens.  Pour  eux,  les 
questions  ouvertes  ne  sont  plus  les  mdmes,  ou  se  posent  autre- 
ment.  Vous  avez  du  le  constater,  mon  Pere,  —  si  toutefois 
r^cho  de  leurs  discussions  arrive  jusqu'a  vous. 

Le  Moine.  —  Nous  ne  connaissons  gu6re  leurs  6crits  que 
par  les  r6ponses  qui  les  r6futent.  Ce  sont  des  6gar6s,  dont  les 
propos  ne  sauraient  nous  troubler. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Mais  il  en  est  dont  la  bonne  volont6  est 
trfes  grande,  qui  voudraient  croire ;  et  ils  d6pensent  de  v6ri- 
tables  trfeors  d'intelligence  pour  trouver  un  terrain  d'entente 
entre  la  science  qui  les  possede  et  la  foi  a  laquelle  ils  se  cram* 
ponnent.  Tache  difficile,  sans  doute ;  non  pas  impossible, 
peut-6tre.  Car  enfin,  vous  reconnaitrez  que  la  religion  n'est 
point  immuable  :  I'Eglise  catholique  elle-mcme  a  change. 


432  COSMOPOLIS. 

Le  Moine.  —  C'est-i-dire,  qu'elle  a  des  I'origine  possedc 
toute  la  V^erit6  et  ne  la  dicouvre  que  peu  a  peu,  au  cours  des 
siecles.  Ceux-la  seuls  qui  en  out  la  garde  jugent  de  Toppor- 
tuiiite  de  montrer  ses  multiples  faces.  C'est  un  travail  lent  et 
regulier,  un  progres  dont  le  terme  est  fix6  d'avance:  on  ne 
saurait  le  confondre  avec  les  tatonnements  et  les  ^garements 
de  la  libre  pensee. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Je  saisis  votre  image  :  une  belle  statue  de 
la  Divinitc  a  etc  confice  aux  hommes,  envelopp6e  de  voiles. 
D'un  sidcle  a  Tautre,  ses  voiles  se  d6roulent  lentement,  dc- 
couvrant  peu  a  peu  des  fragments  to u jours  plus  larges  de 
rimage,  qui  plus  tard  apparaitra  dans  sa  splendeur  complete. 
Eh  bien,  men  Pere,  votre  image,  que  j'admire,  est  "6volution- 
niste/'  comme  la  m6taphysique  des  th6ologiens  les  plus  lib6- 
raux.  EUe  retire  la  v6rit6  religieuse  de  Tordre  absolu  et  im- 
muable  pour  la  soumettre  a  I'universelle  transformation  des 
idees  et  des  choses.  EUe  en  fait  une  v6rite  relative,  —  c'est-a- 
dire  une  v6rit6  qui  n'en  est  pas  une,  puisqu'elle  depend  du 
ccrveau  qui  la  pense  et  des  paroles  qui  Texpriment. 

Le  Moine.  —  Permettez,  Monsieur  (souriani).  Vous  d6rou- 
lez  trop  vite  les  bandelettes...  Sous  ses  voiles,  la  statue  demeure 
toujours  pareille  a  elle*meme. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Mais  ses  aspects  changent  avec  les  yeux 
qui  la  contemplent,  avec  les  sifecles  qui  Temportent.  Ramenons 
les  discussions  a  un  point  a  la  fois  plus  humble  et  plus  precis : 
c'est  la  r6tr6cir  beaucoup,  —  mais  pour  lui  rendre,  apr^,  son 
ampleur.  Tenons-nous  en  d'abord  a  la  repr6sentation  que  les 
hommes  sc  font  de  Dieu,  j'entends,  a  la  representation  mat^ 
rielle,  qu'inventent  les  artistes  et  qu'adoptent  les  foules.  Vous 
la  connaissez  comme  moi  :  un  robuste  vieillard,  avec  une 
longue  barbe  blanche,  v6n6rable  et  magnifique.  Cette  figure 
convient  a  merveille  a  la  conception  anthropomorphique  de 
Dieu  qui  a  pr^valu  pendant  une  longue  phase  de  la  vie  reli- 
gieuse. Mais  qui  done  aujourd'hui  —  sauf  les  peintres  —  peut 
encore  se  representer  Dieu  dans  cette  forme  ?  Quand  vous  pen* 
sez  a  Dieu,  mon  P6re,  le  voyez-vous  en  robe  blanche  ?  avec  s;i 
barbe  ?  Pas  plus  que  tenant  en  main  la  foudre,  attribut  habi* 
tuel  du  Zeus  Terpikczaunos  des  Anciens  I  Plus  loin  :  est-ce 
qu'en  cessant  de  se  repr6senter  Dieu  dans  une  forme  convenue 


LES   IDRES   ET  LES   MGvURS.  433 

et  traditionnelle,  on  n'a  pas  du  mdme  coup  renonc6  a  Tid^e 
d'un  Dieu  personnel  ? 

Le  Moine,  —  On,  Monsieur,  —  qui  done  d^signe  ce  mot  un 
peu  vague  ? 

Lb  Voyageur.  — ■  Beaucoup  d'esprits  trfes  distinguds  et  tr^s 
religieux,  beaucoup  d'ames  ardemment  tendues  vers  Dieu. 

Le  Moinb.  —  Vers  quel  Dieu  ?  Vers  le  notre,  vers  celui  qui 
s'est  r6v616  a  nos  pferes  et  que  TEglise  nous  enseigne,  —  ou 
vers  un  autre  que  je  ne  connais  pas  ? 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Vers  le  Dieu  qu'elles  peuvent  se  repr6- 
senter. 

Le  Moine  (souriantf  avec  un  airde  doufe).  —  Annoncez-moi, 
Monsieur,  ce  Dieu  nouveau  ;  car  vraiment,  je  ne  sais  rien  de 
Lui  ;  et  voici  qu'a  vous  6couter,  il  me  vient  le  d6sir  de  le  con- 
naitre.  Quel  est-il  ?  Ou  est-il  ?  Habite-t-il  encore  le  Ciel  ? 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Le  Ciel,  mon  P6re,  qu*est-ce  que  le  Ciel  ? 
Vous  savez  bien  que  ce  n'est  pas  une  voiite  de  cristal  comme 
I'ont  cru  certains  anciens,  ni  une  pyramide  de  spheres  comme 
Dante  Ta  d6crit,  ni  une  rose  immense  comme  Ta  repr6- 
sent6  parfois  la  symbolique  imagination  du  moyen-fige.  Le 
Ciel,  c'estrinfini  de  I'Espace,  tout  simplement. 

Le  Moine  {apr^s  avoir  n^JlMii  un  instant).  —  Et  dans  cet 
InBni,  les  penseurs  dont  vous  me  parlez,  ont-ils  trouv6  une 
petite  place  pour  loger  leur  Dieu  ? 

Le  Voyageur.  —  lis  n'en  ont  eu  garde. 

Le  Moine  (ironique),  —  L'Infini  n'est  pas  assez  grand  pour 
cela.  Ou  done  le  placent-ils  ?  Car  enfin,  il  faut  pourtant  qu'il 
reside  quelque  part. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Dans  leur  conscience,  dans  leur  coeur, 
au-dedans  d'eux-mSmes. 

Le  Moine.  —  II  y  a  done  autant  de  dieux  qu'il  y  a 
d'hommes  ? 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Ou,  du  moins,  qu'il  y  a  de  croyants. 

Le  Moine.  —  Je  me  suis  laiss6  dire  qu'un  philosophe  impie 
entre  tous  enseignait  que  Dieu  n'existe  pas  encore,  mais  qu'il 
se  forme  dans  la  conscience  collective  de  I'humanit^,  et  qu'un 
jour  il  existera.  Cette  doctrine  me  parait  presque  pr6f6rable  : 
Dieu  y  conserve  une  ombre  de  r6alit6,  tandis  que  dans  la  votre 
il  n'est  plus  qu'un^  id6e  ;  et  vous  s^vez  que  c'est  une  h^r^sie 


434  COSMOPOLIS. 

dont  TE^lise  a  fait  justice.  De  plus,  il  est  une  idte  individuelle 
qui  change  avec  chacun,  que  chacun  peut  souiller  dc  ses  souil- 
lures. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Les  penseurs  dont  je  vous  parle  invoquent 
cependant  le  t6moignage  du  Christ :  n'est-ce  pas  lui  qui,  le 
premier,  a  recommand6  d'adorer  Dieu  en  esprit  et  en  I'^riiij  — 
nettoyant  ainsi  le  culte  des  prati'ques  superstitieuses  ?  En  d6ga- 
geant  le  sens  profond  de  cette  parole,  ils  condamnent,  comme 
grossieres  et  tach6es  d'idolatrie,  les  conceptions  plus  mat^- 
rielles*  ou  plus  pr6cises  de  Dieu.  Et  volontiers,  ils  invoquent 
toute  rhistoire  a  Tappui  de  leur  doctrine.  Ils  observent 
I'humble  origine  du  sentiment  religieux  et  des  representations 
du  divin,  et  marquent  leur  progrfes  constant.  Ils  nous  montrent 
le  f6tichisme  se  transformant  en  polyth6isme,  et  le  polyth^isme 
a  son  tour  c6dant  la  place  an  monoth6isme,  d6s  I'antique 
6poque  ou  Zeus  6tablit  sa  supr6matie  sur  les  autres  dieux.  Ce 
monoth6isme  atteint  s«i  forme  supreme  chez  les  H6breux,  dont 
le  Dieu,  d'abord  national,  devient  universel,  un  et  absolu.  Ce 
Dieu  lui-m^me  change  de  sens  comme  il  change  de  nom  :  il 
6tait  le  Dieu  fort  des  patriarches  ;  il  devient  le  Dieu  vivant  de 
Moise  et  des  Proph fetes  ;  et  Christ  Tappelle  le  P^re.  Ainsi,  la 
rev61ation  de  I'Amonr  vient  completer  celle  de  la  Force  et 
celle  de  la  Justice.  La  reconciliation  est  complete  entre  Dieu 
et  rhommc  qui  peut  enfin  lui  oflfrir  son  coeur  pour  temple.  Ici, 
je  cite  une  belle  parole  d'un  des  penseurs  dont  je  tache  de  vous 
r6sumer  la  philosophic  :  "  L'ame  humaine  orpheline  et  le  Dieu 
lointain  et  inconnu  se  sont  rejoints  et  embrass^s  dans  un  filial 
amour  pour  n'etre  plus  jamais  s6par6s.'*  Quelques-uns  vont 
plus  loin  encore,  renoncent  a  preciser  leur  pensie  religieuse 
qui  n'est  plus  qu'une  aspiration,  leur  croyance  qui  n'est  plus 
qu'un  d6sir  ;  et  c'est  a  un  Dieu  inconnu  qu'ils  adressent  leurs 
hymnes  et  leurs  prieres. 

Le  Moine.  —  Un  Dieu  int6rieur...  Un  Dieu  inconnu...  Et 
vous  trouvez,  Monsieur,  qu'un  tel  Dieu  se  rapproche  de  nous  ? 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Je  ne  vous  ai  pas  donn6  mon  opinion, 
mon  Pfere  ;  je  vous  ai  expos6  des  opinions  ^trangferes. 

Le  Moine.  —  Le  Dieu  que  j'aime  et  que  je  sers  n'est  pas 
un  Dieu  inconnu,  puisqu'il  s'est  r£v61£  lui-m6me  aux  hommes ; 
et  il  n'est  point  un  Dieu  int^rieur,  puisque  je  sens  sa  force  sur 


LES   I  DEES   ET  LES  MCEURS.  435 

moi,  puisqu'il  teoute  mes  pri^res.  Je  ne  me  demande  guere 
s'il  a  line  forme  ou  s'il  n'en  a  point ;  je  ne  cherche  pas  a  me  le 
representer,  comme  en  fermant  les  yeiix  je  puis  voir  en  moi- 
m6me  les  images  des  personnes  que  j'ai  rencontr6es  ou  celles 
des  grands  de  la  terre  dont  j'ai  contempl6  les  portraits.  Je  ne 
me  demande  pas  non  plus  quelle  place  exacte  de  TUnivers  est 
celle  ou  il  reside.  Ce  sont  la  des  mystferes  dont  la  curiosity 
me  parait  pu6rile  ;  et  les  hommes  qui  se  tourmentent  I'esprit 
avec  de  tels  pro  blames  sont  les  mdmes  qui  se  damnaient  jadis 
pour  chercher  la  pierre  philosophale  ou  la  quadrature  du 
cercle.  Notre  connaissance  est  born^e  ;  sachons  I'avouer,  —  et 
dinger  notre  effort  vers  ce  qui  nous  est  n^cessaire.  Or,  voici 
ce  qui  m'est  n^cessaire  :  c'est  de  compter  sur  Dieu,  quel  qu'il 
soit,  c'est  de  savoir  qu'il  est  pour  moi  un  guide,  un  appui, 
un  p6re... 

Le  VOYAGErR.  —  Eux  aussi,  I'appellent  Pfere. 

Le  Moine.  —  Peut-6tre  le  mot  n'a-t-il  pas  exactement  le 
mdme  sens  pour  eux  et  pour  moi.  Je  Temploie  dans  son  sens 
le  plus  precis,  a  la  fois  tendre  et  rigoureux  :  un  p^re  est 
surtout  un  guide,  et  j'ai  besoin  que  Dieu  soit  mon  guide.  J'ai 
besoin  de  connaitre  ses  ordres  et  de  leur  obdr,  J'ai  besoin 
qu'il  6claire  ma  route,  qu'il  me  la  montre,  qu'il  me  I'explique, 
Je  depends  de  lui  et  cela  me  semble  ddicieux. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Vous  raisonnez,  mon  Pfere,  comme  le 
Moine  Sirapion,  dont  un  de  mes  docteurs  a  racont6  Thistoire. 
C*6tait  un  moine  trfes  pieux  et  rempli  de  zfele,  mais  qui  s'6tait 
sans  doute  plus  occup6  de  jeiiner  et  de  prier  que  de  th^ologie. 
Un  pretre  lui  d6couvrit,  un  jour,  que  Dieu  6tait  un  6trc  spiri- 
tuel,  sans  corps,  sans  organes,  sans  forme,  lui  prouva  que  telle 
etait  la  v6rit6  et  que  jusqu'alors,  en  pr^tant  a  Dieu,  dans  son 
esprit,  une  forme  humaine,  il  6tait  tomb6  sans  le  savoir  dans 
une  h6r6sie  condamn(Je  par  I'Eglise.  Sdrapion  reconnut  que  le 
pretre  avait  raison  ;  mais  il  fut  pris  d'un  profond  d^sespoir ;  et 
il  sanglotait,  en  disant  qu'on  lui  avait  pris  son  Dieu,  qu'il 
n'avait  plus  personne  a  adorer... 

Le  Moine.  —  Je  pleurerais  comme  S^rapion,  Monsievr,  si 
vos  paroles  ne  glissaient  pas  sur  moi  sans  m'atteindre.  Et  je 
crois  que  beaucoup  pleureraient  avec  moi.  Sachez  que  la 
(uriosit^  m6taphysiq|ue  est  i^n  luj^e  trds  rare,  rfeerv6  a  vin^ 


43^  COSMOPOLIS. 

61ite  peu  nombreuse,  —  a  T^lite  des  savants,  des  sages  et  des 
docteurs.  Mais  les  autres,  les  pauvres  d'esprit  ?  ou  logeraient- 
ils,  ceux-la,  le  Dieu  int6rieur  ?  Qu'en  feraient-ils  ?  De  quel 
usage  leur  seraient  ces  belles  suggestions  ?  S'ils  ont  besoin 
d'un  Dieu,  c'est  pour  les  conduire  h  travers  la  vie,  pour  assurer 
ou  soutenir  leurs  pas  h6sitants,  pour  les  consoler  dans  leurs 
afflictions,  pour  surveiller  leurs  faiblesses.., 

Le  VoYAGErR.  —  Ah  !  mon  Pfere,  prenez  garde  !  A  votre 
tour,  vous  allez  vous  Eloigner  de  la  foi  simple,  mais  61ev6e  et 
candide,  du  pauvre  S6rapion.  Votre  Dieu  va  devenir  utilitaire. 
Vous  Taimerez  pour  vous,  non  pour  lui.  Que  de  gens  ont 
ainsi  diminu^,  r6tr6ci,  rabaiss6  leur  foi  !  Ils  commencent  par 
demander  a  Dieu  son  appui  dans  les  grandes  choses,  dans  les 
crises  de  Tame,  dans  le  doute,  dans  la  douleur.  Puis  ils  le 
mclent  peu  a  peu  aux  moindres  soucis  de  leur  menue  existence. 
Ils  le  consultent  pour  leur  mariage  et  pour  leurs  placements  de 
fonds.  Ils  lui  demandent,  sinon  des  miracles,  du  moins  des 
"signes."  J'ai  connu  de  bonnes  personnes  qui  n'auraient  point 
entrepris  un  voyage  de  deux  jours  sans  le  consulter  a  leur 
manifere  :  "  S'il  fait  beau,  c'est  que  Dieu  permet  que  je  parte  ; 
s'il  pleut,  c'est  qu'il  ne  le  permet  pas..."  Manquaient-elles  le 
train,  c'6tait  Dieu  qui  I'avait  voulu  ;  et  leurs  exigences  ^taient 
telles,  que  le  gouvcrnement  de  leur  vie  eiit  occup6  trois  Pro- 
vidences. 

Le  Moine.  —  Ce  n'est  point  dans  la  solitude  du  couvent 
qu'on  s'expose  a  un  tel  p6ril.  Et  d'ailleurs,  est-il  aussi  grand 
que  vous  voulez  bien  le  dire  ?  Tons  les  sentiments  ont  leurs 
excfes,  dont  il  est  facile  de  rire.  Vous  raillez,  Monsieur,  la  con- 
fiance  excessive  et  naive... 

Le  Voyagetr.  —  ...Dites  orgueilleuse,  insupportable,  outre- 
cuidante. 

Le  Moine.  —  Si  vous  voulez...  Vous  raillez  la  conBance  en 
Dieu  des  pauvres  ames  6troites  qui  Tadaptent  a  leur  mesure. 
Mais  que  de  magnifiques  exemples  de  cette  m£me  confiance 
je  pourrais  vous  citer  !  Que  de  souflfrances  accept^es  avec  un 
admirable  courage  !  N'avez-vous  jamais  vu  des  m^res  chr^- 
tiennes  pleurer  leur  enfant  mort,  et  si  vous  avez  vu  ce  spec- 
tacle, n'en  avez- vous  done  pas  senti  la  grandeur  ? 

Le  VoYAGErR.  —  Je  n'ai  jamais  eu  ce  spectacle  ;  mais  je 


LES    IDKKS    ET    LES    M(KURS.  437 

connais  le  po6me  qu'un  grand  chr6tien...  iin  protestant, 
Vinet,  a  compos6  stir  la  mort  de  sa  fille  : 

Tu  pcux  reprciidre, 

O  pcre  tend  re, 
Lcs  bicns  dont  tu  mas  coiironne. 

Ce  qu'cn  off  rand  c 

Tu  redemande, 
Je  sais  pourquoi  tu  me  I'avais  donne... 

Cela  est  d'une  beaut6  qui  m'effraye,  d'une  grandeur  qui  me 
semble  inhumaine.  Je  ne  puis  admettre  Dieu  que  s'il  est  le 
couronnement,  non  la  negation,  de  I'humanit^. 

Le  Moine  (souriant).  —  Voici  qu'a  votre  tour,  Monsieur, 
vous  tombez  dans  Tanthropomorphisme. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Oh  !  moi...  Ce  n'est  pas  de  moi  qu'il 
vS'agit :  nous  examinons  des  hypotheses,  des  interpretations.  Je 
voulais  vous  montrer  les  dangers  de  la  voire.  Vous  m'avez  dit 
qu'ils  ne  peuvent  vous  atteindre  dans  votre  solitude,  et  je  crois 
bien  que  vous  avez  raison  sur  ce  point  de  detail.  Mais  il  en  est 
d'autres  encore,  que  vous  n'^viterez  pas. 

Le  Moine.  —  Lesquels  ? 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Si  vous  ne  rabaissez  pas  Dieu  au  niveau 
des  petitcs  exigences  de  la  vie  pratique,  telles  que  les  subissent 
ceux  qui  demeurent  dans  le  sidcle,  vous  inclinerez  pourtant  a 
le  m6ler  aux  a£Faires  humaines.  Vous  ferez  de  lui  le  r6gulateur 
de  la  soci6t6,  le  grand  artisan  de  Thistoire,  comme  Bossuet. 
Vous  nous  le  montrerez  jouant  a  faire  et  d6faire  les  empires 
un  petit  jeu  qui  en  vaut  un  autre.  Vous  ne  le  d6rangerez  pas, 
sans  doute,  pour  lui  demander  s'il  faut  partir  par  Texpress  ou 
par  I'omnibus,  mais  vous  lui  confierez  le  soin  de  surveiller  la 
haute  politique. 

Le  -Moine.  —  Et  si,  en  eflfet,  je  le  concevais  ainsi  ?  Si  je 
voyais  en  lui  le  maitre  supreme  de  la  vie  et  des  hommes,  —  ou 
serait  done  le  mal,  je  vous  prie  ? 

Le  Voyagevr.  —  Attendez  1  Nous  avons  vu  qu'en  se  con- 
fiant  en  Dieu  pour  les  grandes  choses,  on  arrive,  si  j'ose  dire,  a 
le  d6ranger  pour  rien.  Pareillement,  si  vous  le  chargez  de  la 
direction  supreme  des  affaires  humaines,  vous  serez  amen6, 
peu  a  peu,  a  r6tr6cir  son  role,  a  le  meler  aux  petites 
questions  de  I'ordre  journalier.  Ainsi,  vous  changerez  sa 
majesty   divine    en   simple  autorit^.       Son    role,    grandiose 


438  COSMOPOLIS. 

d'abord  —  du  moins  a  notre  point  de  vue  d'hommes,  qui  nous 
considerons  corame  le  v6ritable  univers  —  se  reduira  de  plus 
en  plus.  Aprfes  Tavoir  charg6  de  vous  donner  des  lois,  vous  lui 
demanderez  de  les  modifier  de  si^cle  en  si^cle,  selon  vos  be- 
soins  nouveaux  ;  ou  bien,  quand  elles  paraitront  insuffisantes, 
d'inventer  des  expedients  pour  les  maintenir  quand  meme,  par 
crainte  de  I'anarchie  ;  et  en  tout  cas,  aussi  longtemps  qu'elles 
existent,  de  les  faire  respecter,  en  vertu  de  Tadage  qu'il  faut 
obeir  aux  lois,  m6me  injustes.  Vous  voyez  la  d6ch6ance  :  le 
16gislateur  devient  un  bon  huissier,  I'empereur  devient  garde- 
champetre.  Et  d'ailleurs,  aprfes  tout,  le  garde-champ6tre  et 
Tempereur,  Thuissier  et  le  legislateur,  ne  sont-ils  pas  ^galement 
insignifiants  devant  Tlnfini  ? 

Le  Moine.  —  Ces  derniers  mots,  Monsieur,  me  donnent  la 
clef  de  votre  paradoxe.  V^ous  raisonnez  comme  si  nous  pou- 
vions  consid6rer  le  monde,  I'univers,  I'lnfini  m^me  autrement 
que  de  notre  point  de  vue  d'hommes.  Or,  ce  point  de  vue  im- 
porte  seul.  II  y  a  longtemps  qu'on  a  dit  que  I'homme  est  la 
mesure  de  toutes  choses ;  et  Ton  ne  pent  nier  cette  simple 
v6rit6  qu'en  oubliant  sa  propre  condition.  Je  ne  me  hasarde- 
rai  point  a  d6finir  les  fonctions  de  Dieu  ;  je  ne  les  connais  pas 
plus  que  vous  ne  connaissez  ce  qu'il  vous  plait  d'appeler 
rUnivers.  Mais  c'est  avec  mon  ame  d'homme  que  je  le  sens, 
c'est  avec  mon  intelligence  d'homme  que  je  le  pense.  Qu'im- 
porte  si  je  le  d^forme  ainsi  ?  Par  dela  mon  incomplete 
conception,  II  demeure,  selon  le  mot  des  Proph^tes,  Cchii 
qui  est,  Nos  yeux  ne  peuvent  r6fl6chir  exactement  un  pay- 
sage  :  pourquoi  demander  a  mon  esprit  plus  d'exactitude 
quand  il  s'agit...  Je  ne  trouve  pas  meme  un  terme  pour  m'ex- 
primer  plus  clairement,  et  je  suis  oblige  de  dire  :  "  quand  il 
s'agit  de  Dieu."  Aucune  de  vos  comparaisons.  Monsieur,  ne 
peut  me  satisfaire,  pas  plus  celle  de  I'empereur  que  celle  du 
garde-champetre.  Nous  arrivons  a  un  point  ou  les  mots  man- 
quent ;  il  n'y  a  plus  que  la  foi  qui  peut  com  prendre  et  parler 
et  qui  plonge  dans  le  mystfere. 

Le  Voyageur  {apr^  un  silence  pettsif).  —  Vous  avez  raison, 
mon  Pere.  II  n'y  a  que  la  foi  qui  sache,  il  n'y  a  qu'elle  qui 
compte.  Ce  n'est  point  elle  qui  raisonne  sur  Dieu ;  elle  se 
borne  k  I'affirmer ;  mais  la  foi,  —  vous  I'ayez,  je  crois,  dit  vou§-: 


LES    IDICES   ET   LES   MCEURS.  439 

m^me  —  c'est  un  don  de  la  Grace  :   on  la  possfede  ou  on  ne  la 
poss^de  pas,  Nul  effort  de  I'intelligence  ne  pent  TacqucTir. 
Le  Moine.  —  On  peut  la  demander. 

Le  Voyageur.  —  H61as  I  pour  la   demander,  il  faut  d6ja 
I'avoir.  (Un  long  silence.) 

Le  Moine.  —  Je  ne  ddsespfere  jamais  des  hommes  de  bonne 
volont6. 

{Le    Voyageur    se    le-re,    s'npproche  leniement  de  la   fenetre, 

observe  nn  instant  la  vallce,  on  apparaissent,  cntre  les  nnages 

qui  se  dissipent,  des  pans  de  ciel  et  de  montagnes  ;  qnand  il  se 

retourne,  le  Moine  est  debout  demure  Ini,) 

Le  Moine.  —  De  toutes  les  tentations  qui  nous  assaillent, 

Monsieur,  la  pire  est  celle  de  TEsprit ;  aussi  est-elle  r6serv6e 

aux  ames  les  plus  nobles,  dont  elle  a  souvent  triomph6.  Vous 

6tes  sa  victime,  Voulez-vous  lui  6chapper  ?  Ne  cherchez  plus 

Dieu  avec  votre  raison,  —  car   il   fuira  toujours  devant  elle. 

Cherchez-le  dans  ses  ceuvres,  —  et  dans  ce  qui  peut  vous  rester 

de  simplicity.  Voyez !  Quel  qu'il  soit,  il  est  partout,  autour  de 

nous.  Quand  ils  veulent  I'expliquer,  les  hommes  d6raisonnent, 

mais  la  terre  raconte  sa  gloire. 

(D*un  large  geste,  le  Moine  embrasse  le  paysage,  qui  s'Maire 
rapidement.  Les  derniers  nuages  tnontent  dans  le  ciel  presque 
bleu,  et  les  rayons  du  soleii  tonihent  sur  les  jlancs  verts  des 
montagnes,  sur  les  glaciers  lointains,  sur  les  chapelles  blanches 
sem^es  dans  la  vallee.) 

Le  Voyageur.  —  Oh  !  mon  Pfere,  que  nous  sommes  loin 
Tun  de  I'autre,  —  et  que  vous  6tes  heureux  ! 

Le   Moine.  —  Avec   un   peu  d'effort,  vous  pourriez  Tetre 
aussi. 

{Les  deux  hommes  sortent  ensemble,  en  echangeant  quelques 
propos  d'un  autre  ordre.  Ils  se  quittent  devant  la  porte  cochire, 
en  se  serrant  la  main.  Le  Voyagei  R  descend  d  grands  pas 
par  Vetroit  sentier  qui  va  joindre,  au-dessous  du  convent,  les 
maisons  du  village.  Le  Moine  le  suit  des  yeux,  et,  quand  il  l\t 
vu  disparattre,  fait  lentemcnt  le  signe  de  la  Croix.) 

Edouard  Rod. 


LES  BOUQUETS  DE  L'ALLIANCE. 


I 

Ai'JOURD'tn?!  TAUiance  Franco-Russe,  'officiellement  declare(^ 
par  les  deux  gouvernements,  est  line  r6alit6  historique   sur 
rimportancc  de  laquelle  ravenir  seul  se  pronoiicera.     II  y  a — ■ 
dans  cette   double-alliance,  de   la  part  des   Russes,   un   c6t6^ — 
"  sentimental."    Un  souvenir  qui  m'est  personnel  en  fournit  la 
preuvc. 

En  1893,  j'allai  comme  toutes  les  fois  qu'il  vient  a  Paris, 
saluer  a  I'Hotel  Continental  S.A.I,  le  Grand-Due  Wladimir 
Alexandrovitcli,  fr^re  de  TEmpereur  Alexandre  III.  Le  matin 
meme  notre  Journal  Officiel  avait  annonc6  qu'une  escadre  russe 
viendrait  bientot  a  Toulon  rendre  aux  marins  fran^ais  leur 
visite  de  1891.  J'assurai  a  Son  Altesse  Imp^riale  que  notre 
enthousiasme  a  recevoir  les  marins  russes  d^passerait  les 
manifestations  de  Cronstadt.  Le  Prince,  avec  une  grande 
franchise,  me  dit  alors  que  le  chaleureux  accueil  fait  aux 
Fran^ais  avait  beaucoup  6tonn6  la  soci6t6  russe. 

—  La  reception  officielle  pr6par6e  pour  votre  escadre, 
ajouta-t-il,  etait  la  meme  que  pour  les  autres  :  un  diner  et  un 
bal...  mais  I'Empereur  et  la  nation  ont  fait  le  reste. 

Ces  paroles  d'une  exquise  courtoisie,  prononc6es  par  une 
bouche  autorisie  entre  toutes,  exprimaient  alors  une  enti6rc 
v6rit6. 

La  conception  de  I'alliance  ne  pouvait  fetre  la  meme  dans 
les  deux  pays.  La  France  isol6e  et  meurtrie  y  voyait  claire- 
ment  une  garantie  contre  toute  agression  6ventuelle.  Ainsi 
s'expliquc,  nous  le  croyons  du  moins,  Tenthousiasme  mani- 
festo d6s  le  d6but  dans  notre  pays. 

La  Russie  se  trouvait  clans  une  situation  toute  diffOrente. 


LES  BOUQUETS   DE   l'aLLIANCE.  44I 

Elle  n'6tait  pas,  comme  la  France,  au  lendemain  d'une  guerre 
malheureuse.  Elle  n'avait  pas  6te  d^membree :  aucun  danger 
iinm^diat  ne  la  mena^ait.  La  n^cessit^  d'une  alliance  ne 
s'iraposait  done  pas  pour  elle.  Mais  cette  alliance  fut  Toeuvre 
personnelle  d' Alexandre  III.  Le  souverain  pr6c6da  la  nation. 
II  entraina  ses  peuples  vers  Tamiti^  de  la  France. 

Par  une  contradiction  qui  n'est  qu'apparcnte,  le  souverain 
national,  "  TEmpereur  des  Mougicks,"  comme  il  aimait  a 
s'appeler  lui-meme,  n'h6sita  pas  a  mettre  sa  main  loyale  dans 
celle  de  la  R6publique  fran9aise.  Le  temps  n'6tait  plus  ou 
dominait  dans  I'Empire  des  influences  6trangeres,  alors  qu'un 
g^n^ral  combl^  d'honneurs  r^pondait,  avec  une  amfere  ironie 
a  Nicolas  I"  lui  demandant  ce  qu'il  pourrait  faire  encore  pour 
lui : 

— Sire,  faites-moi  Allemand  1... 

Par  une  intuition  sup6rieure,  Alexandre  111  avait  compris 
que  sa  g6ndreuse  initiative  assurerait  la  paix  de  TEurope,  en 
laissant  a  la  Russie  le  champ  libre  dans  le  monde. 

Telle  est,  brifevement  resumte,  lagenese  de  la  double-alliance. 
La  France  ne  se  montra  pas  ingrate.  Elle  prodigua  a  son 
illustre  ami  des  marques  r^iter^esde  respect  etdesympathie  qui 
touch^rent  profond6ment  le  coeur  des  Russes.  Par  un  mys- 
t6rieux  dessein  de  la  Providence,  TEmpereur  disparu  continua 
a  exercer  sa  bienfaisante  action  sur  les  deux  peuples.  Les 
manifestations  solennelles  de  douleur  et  de  tristesse  se  succ^- 
dirent  a  sa  mort  dans  la  France  entiere.  La  dernifere  a  et6  la 
palme  d'or  d6pos6e  sur  I'imp^rial  tombeau  dans  I'eglise  de 
la  forteresse  St-Pie'rre-et-St-Paul,  il  y  a  quelques  mois,  par 
le  President  de  la  R6publique,  au  nom  du  peuple  franyais. 
Ainsi  s'infiltra  peu  a  peu,  dans  tout  I'Empire  russe,  une  amiti6 
sincere  pour  notre  pays. 

J'avais  pu,  I'annte  derniere,  aux  fetes  du  couronnement  de 
LL.  MM.  II.,  en  constater  la  reality  mais  non  Tetendue ;  il 
n'en  est  plus  de  mdme  a  present. 

Un  de  nos  amis,  aprte  avoir  assists  au  Congrte  medical  de 
Moscou  en  1897,  a  traverse  la  Russie  de  St-P6tersbourg  a 
Wladikavkas  et  de  la  mer  Caspienne  a  la  mer  Noire.  Partout, 
dans  les  plus  grandes  villes  comme  dans  les  plus  humbles 
bourgades,  la  quality  de   Fran^ais  est  devenue  un  veritable 


442  COSMOPOLlb. 

talisman.  A  St-P6tersbourg,  notre  ami  se  promfene  aux  lies. 
Un  officier,  reconnaissant  un  Franyais,  I'invite  a  p6n6trer  dans 
sa  maison  :  une  superbe  villa  qui  est  proche.  II  y  pourra 
mieux  admirer  le  panorama.  Get  officier  se  trouve  etre  le 
g6n6ral  Comte  d'O...,  aide  de  camp-g6n6ral  de  S.  M. 
I'Empereur  Nicolas  II.  Sa  famille  accueille  avec  affabilite 
notre  compatriote.  Un  lunch  est  improvise  ou  les  verres  se 
levent  en  Thonneur  de  TAlliance. 

Partout,  au  cours  du  voyage,  les  mcmes  scenes  se  reproduisent. 
Au  Caucase,  a  Y6kat6rinodar,  le  maitre  d'6cole  interrompt  son 
cours  pour  montrer  lui-meme  le  mus6e  a  notre  ami  qui  veut  y 
relever  une  inscription  grecque  int^ressante.  Pendant  ce 
temps  les  petits  GiSorgiens  de  la  ckisse,  peu  experts  cependant 
dans  notre  langue,  crient  de  leur  mieux  a  pleins  poumons : 
"  Vive  la  France  ! " 

C'est  bien  ici  le  cas  de  r6p6ter  :  *'  Le  coeur  a  des  raisons  que 
la  raison  ne  comprend  pas." 

Le  touchant  Episode  des  bouquets  adressesa  la  mortdu  Tzar 
Alexandre  III  aux  personnalit^s  du  monde  russe  par  les 
membres  d'une  soci6t6  de  g6ographie  de  France  est  un  bour- 
geon de  Tarbre  d'alliance  germ6  en  terre  fran^aise,  pouss^  en 
sol  russe.  Aprfes  les  bouquets,  les  lettres  tehang6es,  les  cadeaux 
venus  de  Russie  furent  autant  de  fils  invisibles  qui  tiss^rent  du 
ciel  de  France  aux  bords  de  la  N6va  la  trame  d'une  solide 
amiti6  longtemps  avant  que  les  chancelleries  eussent  paraphe 
des  protocoles,  f.igne  des  conventions  militaires  et  des  arrange* 
ments  diplomatiques. 

II 

I^s  strangers  qui  jugent  superficiellement  les  Fran^ais  (et 
c'est  le  plus  grand  nombre)  nous  attribuent  trois  esp^ces  de 
d^fauts  :  ceux  que  nous  avons  r^ellement ;  ceux  que  nous 
paraissons  avoir  et  enfin  ceux  que  les  gallophobes  de  tous  les 
pays  nous  pretent  obligeamment.  Sachons  en  prendre  notre 
parti.    Tachons  de  nous  corriger  de  nos  d^fauts  r^els  1 

Quant  aux  d^fauts  que  nous  paraissons  avoir,  I'erreur  est 
bien  permise  a  la  lecture  de  certains  de  nos  livres  et  surtout 
de  certains  de  nos  journaux»  Nous  nous  plaisons,  en  effet,  a 
ctaler  au  grand  jour  et  meme  a  exag^rer  des  incidents  sur 


LfeS  BOUQUETS   DE   L'ALLIANCE.  443 

lesquels  des  nations  mieux  avis6es  que  la  notre  garden!  en 
pareilles  circonstances  un  silence  discret.  Si  nous  sommes 
sou  vent  mal  jug6s  a  I'^tranger,  c'est  uniquement  par  notre 
faute.  Des  calomnies  ou  des  pr6juges  ridicules  il  est  inutile 
de  s'occuper  :   la  v6rit6  et  le  bon  sens  en  font  justice. 

Un  humoriste  allemand  a  6crit,  par  exemple,  que  :  "  le 
Franv'ais  porte  des  moustaches  et  ne  sait  pas  la  geographic." 

Ces  moustaches  font  songer  a  I'Anglais  de  Sterne  qui,  voyant 
une  servante  rousse  a  Calais,  ecrivit  que  toutes  les  femmes 
franvaises  etaient  rousses.  Quant  a  la  geographic,  on  a  dit 
souvent  que  nous  avions  et6  battus  en  1870  parce  que  nous 
I'ignorions. 

Or  la  Soci6t6  de  G6ographie  de  Paris  est  la  doyenne 
des  soci6t6s  de  geographic  d' Europe.  Trente-sept  soci6t6s 
provinciates  de  geographic  existent  actuellcment  vivaces  et 
prosperes  en  France,  en  Alg6rie  et  en  Tunisie. 

Je  me  souviens  d'une  reception  de  M.  Thiers  a  la  prefecture 
de  Vers;ulles  pendant  Thiver  de  1871.  Plusieurs  g^neraux 
group^s  autour  du  President  cnum6raient  les  causes  de  nos 
defaites.  La  faute  en  6tait  a  Tetat-major ;  a  rartillerie ;  a 
rintendance,  etc...  Peut-etre  aussi  fut-il  question  de  geo- 
graphic... M.  Thiers  ecoutait  debout,  silencieux,  les  mains 
derriere  le  dos,  adosse  a  la  cheminee  scion  son  habitude. 
Soudain,  de  sa  voix  nette  et  tranchante  : 

—  Vous  pouvez  avoir  raison  sur  bien  des  points,'Messieurs... 
mais  croyez-moi...  Si  la  France  au  debut  des  hostilites  avait  eu 
800,000  hommes  a  opposer  a  la  Prusse,  les  evfenements  auraient 
sans  doute  tourne  differemment. 

Cette  opinion  paraitra  la  vraie  a.  tous  les  csprits  impartiaux. 

Quoi  qu'il  en  soit,  Toulouse,  qui  possfede  une  des  societes  de 
geographic  les  plus  prospdres  du  midi  de  la  France,  fut  en 
meme  temps  une  des  villes  qui  se  passionnerent  le  plus  pour 
Talliance  russe.  La  famille  imp6riale  y  vint  souvent  chercher 
des  educateurs  pour  ses  enfants.  L'Empereur  actuel,  Nicolas 
II,  a  eu  pour  pr6cepteur  M.  Lan^on,  de  Toulouse,  aujourd'hui 
maitre  de  conferences  a  TEcole  normale  superieure  de  Paris. 
Un  autre  Toulousiiin,  M.  Dorliac,  demeure  en  Russic,  est 
professeur  a  I'Ecole  polytechnique  de  St-Petersbourg.  II  a 
eieve  les  fils  du  grand-due  Wladimir :  les  princes  Cvrille,  Boris 


444  COSMOPOLlS. 

et  Andrd.     C'est  aussi  un  Toulousain,  M.  Destrein,  qui  a  con- 
struit  les  fortifications  du  port  de  Cronstadt. 

Mais  au  commencement  du  present  sifecle,  Toulouse  ne  s'est 
pas  contents  d'envoyer  en  Kussie  plusieurs  de  ses  fils.  Elle 
a  donn6  encore  a  la  nation  sceur  une  preuve  d'amitie  dont  Icb 
resultats  ont  d6pass6  I'attente. 

Ill 

En  1894,  aprfes  la  mort  de  TEmpereur  Alexandre  III,  le 
Comite  des  associations  de  la  presse  fran^aise  eut  une  id<5e 
touchante.  II  envoya  des  petits  bouquets  de  fleurs  de  France  : 
bouquets  du  souvenir,  noues  d'un  ruban  de  deuil,  t6moignage 
de  fraternelle  condol6ance  et  de  sincere  affection,  destines  a 
etre  offerts  a  la  population.  Ce  projet  aurait  eu  un  trfes  grand 
succes  si  les  fleurs  avaient  6t6  bien  distribuees.  Mais  il  manqua 
completement  dans  Tex^cution.  Les  fleurs  furent  envoytes  a 
la  campagne  dans  un  asile  franyais,  ou  des  mougicks  les  piU 
lerent  et  revendirent  en  ville  chaque  bouquet  15  a  20  roubles. 
Ces  sommes  61ev6es  montraient  a  quel  point  nos  amis  russes 
6taient  d6sireux  de  poss6der  ces  souvenirs  venus  de  France. 
Les  grands-ducs,  la  haute  soci6t6,  la  municipality,  le  ministere 
de  la  cour  r6clamaient  en  vain  ces  fragiles  envois.  lis  avaient 
d6ja  disparu  sans  que  Ton  put  savoir  ce  qu'ils  6taient  devenus. 

En  ce  moment  se  trouvait  a  St-P6tersbourg  un  membre  de 
la  Soci6t6  de  G^ographie  de  Toulouse,  M.  G..  Labit,  d616gu6 
par  M.  Gu6not,  le  d6voue  secr6taire-g6n6ral,  aux  obsdques 
*d' Alexandre  III  et  au  mariage  de  son  fils  Nicolas  II.  M.  Labit 
reyut  de  M.  de  S6menow,  vice-pr6sident  de  la  Soci6te  imp^riale 
russe  de  Geographie,  I'accueil  le  plus  courtois.  Les  Fran9ais 
ont  appris  a  le  connaitre  et  a  Taimer  depuis  le  s6jour  qu'il  fit 
par  mi  nous  lors  du  Congres  international  des  Sciences  gco- 
graphiques,  tenu  a  Paris  en  1895.* 

Sur  les  conseils  de  plusieurs  membres  de  lacolonie  fran^aisc 
de  St*P6tersbourg,  M.  Labit  songea  alors  a  reprendre  le  projet 
de  la  presse,  par  un  gracieux  envoi  de  fleurs  en  Russia  a  Tocca- 
sion  du  mariage  de  I'Empereur  Nicolas  II.  II  terivit  a  M. 
Gu6hot  que  M.  de  S6m6now  lui  donnerait  les  noms  des  per- 

•  J'ai  etc    ptiisonncllement    ties  hcureux  de  retrouvcr  M.  de  Semenow  a 
8amarkande  en  i88l<,  a  riiiauguration  du  chemiii  de  (cr  transcaspieii. 


Lks   BOUQUETS   DE   L'ALLIANCE.  44^^ 

sonnes  de  la  haute  societc    russe  desireiises    de   recevoir  uji 
bouquet   fran9ais.      M.   Dorliac   promettait   en   outre   de   les 

remettre  lui-meme  a  leurs  destinataires.    Cette  lettre  fut  accueil- 

lie  a  Toulouse  avec  le  plus  vif  enthousiasme  et  le  projet  votii 

par  acclamations.     Un  grand  nombre  de  membres  d^sireux 

de   participer    a  cette  aimable    correspondance   franco-russe 

donnerent  leurs  noms. 

L'automne  de  1894  fut  consacre  par  le  bureau  de  la  Societe 

a  regler  les  conditions  materiel  les  des  envois.     Chaque  sous- 

cripteur  versait  un  franc  p6ur  I'achat  et  le  port  du  bouquet  qui 

se  composait  de  trois  fleurs   artificielles    nouces   entre  elles 

par  un  ruban  tricolore  avec  une  devise :  "  Souhait  de  bonheur 

et  d'amitie."     A  chaque  bouquet,  place  dans  une  petite  boite, 

ctait  joint   un    morceau   de    parchemin    portant    le    nom    et 

Tadresse    de    Tenvoyeur.     Tous  ces  bouquets  reunis  furent 

expcdids    par  colis   recommandcs   a   St-P6tersbourg.      lis    y 

parvinrent  pour  les  fetes  de  Noel  et  du  nouvel  an  russe  1895. 

IV 

Le  premier  soin  de  M.  Dorliac  en  recevant  les  bouquets  fut, 
comme  il  T^crivit  lui-meme,  de  rendre  Tun  d'eux  historique. 
II  le  remit  en  effetau  prince  Sherbatow,  directeur  du  Mus6e  du 
Souvenir  a  Moscou.  Dans  ce  mus6e  sont  conserves  tous  les 
objets  qui  se  rapportent  a  Talliance  franco-russe.  lis  ont  etc 
recueillis  par  les  soins  du  prirce.  En  1894  leur  nombre 
depassait  d6ja  quatre  mille.  Le  simple  bouquet,  place  dans 
une  vitrine  du  mus^e,  perp6tua  le  souvenir  de  la  part  modeste, 
mais  tres  reelle  cependant,  prise  par  la  Soci6te  de  Gdographie 
de  Toulouse  a  Talliance  des  deux  peuples. 

M.  de  S6m6now  veilla  lui-meme  avec  M.  Dorliac  a  la  distri- 
bution des  bouquets.  II  exp^dia  dans  la  Siberie  Orientale  un 
bouquet  destine  au  gouverneur,  M.  le  lieutenant-general 
Doukhowskoi.  Un  autre  bouquet  fut  envoye  aux  confins  du 
Turkestan  a  M.  le  Iieutenant-g6n6ral  baron  Wiesky. 

Les  r6ponses  ne  tardferent  pas  a  arriver.  La  premiere  fut 
celle  de  la  princesse  Barclay  de  Tolly,  envoyant  sa  photographic 
avec  une  aimable  d^dicace.  Ix  prince  Wiasemski,  chef  des 
Apanages  Imp^riaux,  6crivait  :  "  Que  les  marques  reit6rees  de 
sympathie  de  la  France  trouveraient  dans  toute  la  Kussie  un 

VOL.  IX. — MO.  XXVI.  \) 


44^)  COSMOPOLIS. 

rclciilissemenl  donl  il  ne  poiivait  ctre  qu'iin  faible  echo."  M. 
Yermolow,  ministre  de  I'Agriculture  et  des  Domaines,  aflirmait 
pour  la  France  ses  sentiments  de  gratitude  et  d'amiti^.  M.  de 
Witte,  ministre  des  Finances,  se  montrait  profond6ment  touch6 
de  cette  nouvelle  marque  d'attention  de  la  part  de  ses  amis 
franfpais.  L'amiral  Tchitchakow,  ministre  de  la  Marine,  envoyait 
Texpression  de  sa  plus  sincere  reconnaissance.  La  princesse 
Obolensky  exp6dia  les  photographies  de  I'Empereur  et  de  la 
jeune  Imp6ratrice  a  M.  Key-Pailhade,  ancien  president  de  la 
Sociite,  et  a  Mme  Rey-Pailhade. 

Les  bouquets  destines  a  la  famille  imp6riale  avaient  et6  pares 
avec  un  gout  tout  fran^ais.  Places  dans  de  petits  sacs  en  satin 
blanc,  li^s  d'un  ruban  de  meme  coulcur,  ils  apparaissaient 
laiss;mt  voir  d'un  c6t6  le  parchemin  nominatif  et  de  I'autre 
le  ruban  tricolore.  Des  boites  en  carton  glac^  compl6taient  ce 
modeste  envoi.  Cette  simplicit6  plut  pr6cis6ment  aux  souve- 
rains.  Unc  lettre  cman^e  du  minist6re  de  la  maison  de 
TEmpereur,  cabinet  de  Sa  Majest6,  en  date  du  14  f6vrier  1895, 
en  fait  foi.     La  voici : 

MiMSTKKK    l>K    LA 

Maison  di-:  i,  K.mi'KKKik 

CAmxKT  i)K  Sa  Majkstk  SAiXT-PKTKKSiioiki;, /c  4 /t'iTieT  1^*95. 

Skction  Administkativk 
N^»  -'345- 
Lc  cabiiKt  dc  Sa  Majcslc  ;i  tic  charge  par  M.  Ic  ministre  de  la 
niaiM)ii  (k*  rKmjKrciir,  dinfornicr  M.  Fabicn  Dorliac  que  Ics  boiiqucls- 
soiivcnirs,  joints  a  sa  IcUrc  du  18  Janvier,  ayant  ete  reniis  a  leiir  haute 
ck'sUnation,  Leurs  Majestes  ont  ^racieusenienl  daigne  ordunuer  de 
rcnurcicr  en  leur  noni  la  SocieLe  de  (jeoj^raphie  de  Toulouse,  aiusi  que 
k*s  entanls  (hi  President  de  huHte  Societe,  ck*  k'urs  sentiments  de  respec- 
tuense  synipathie  temoignes  par  Tenvoi  des  suscUts  bouquets. 

Lc  chef  lie  la  Section  Aifmhiisfraiirc 
Le  Germil  d'affaires,  lin  Cabinet  de  Sa  Majcste, 

Ol'TKirZ.  POLOTROFF. 

Bientot  arriverent  a  Toulouse  les  r^ponses  des  grands-ducs 
adress6es  en  leurs  noms  par  les  mar6chaux  de  la  cour.  Le 
grand-due  Wladimir  Alexandrovitch,  oncle  de  I'Empereur, 
commandant  de  la  garde  imp6riale  et  de  la  circonscription 
militaire  de  St-Petersbourg ;  le  grand-due  Serge  Alexandro- 
vitch, oncle  et  beau-frfere  de  I'Empereur,  gouverneur-g6neral 
de  Moscou  ;  le  grand-due  Paul  Alexandrovitch,  oncle  de 
I'Empereur  ;  le  grand-due  Alexandre  Michailovitch,  beau-fr^re 


LfeS   feOlJQUETS   Dfe   L^ALLlANCfe.  447 

de  TEmpereur,  servant  dans  la  marine  ;  le  grand-due  Constan- 
tin  Constantinovitch  pr6sident  de  TAcad^mie  des  Sciences, 
celui-la  meme  qui  vint  saluer  le  President  Carnot  a  Nancy 
de  la  part  d' Alexandre  III  au  moment  de  Tentrevue  de  Kiel, 
envoyaient  leurs  remerciements  les  plus  sinceres  avec  leurs 
photographies  portant  de  gracieuses  dedicaces.  Les  princesses 
et  les  dames  de  la  Cour  r^pondaient  en  termes  affectueux  aux 
dames  de  la  soci6te  toulousaine.  Elles  y  joignaient  leurs 
meilleurs  voeux  de  joie  et  de  bonheur  pour  le  beau  pays  de 
France.  Les  dames  et  les  demoiselles  de  Tlnstitut  de  la 
Noblesse  envoyaient  des  ouvrages  de  leurs  mains,  ecrivaient 
des  lettres  charmantes,  pleines  de  grace  et  de  vives  protestations 
d'amiti^.  Une  des  jeunes  filles  joignait  a  ses  remerciements 
des  souhaits,  presque  des  conseils  :  "  Nous  avons  appris,  disait- 
elle,  a  connaitre  et  a  aimer  la  France,  sa  litt^rature,  ses  arts. 
C'est  maintenant  a  vous,  pour  que  Tunion  soit  complete,  a 
6tudier  la  langue,  la  litt6rature,  les  beaux-arts  de  notre  pays." 

En  r6sum6,  les  b6n6ficiaires  des  bouquets  se  trouvferent  ainsi 
r6partis  :  dix-sept  membres  de  la  famille  imp6riale,  vingt  et  un 
princes  et  ofticiers  g6n6raux,  quatre-vingt-neuf  membres  de  la 
Socicte  de  Gtographie  de  St-P6tersbourg,  cent  vingt  et  un 
membres  de  la  haute  soci^t^  russe,  parmi  lesquels  beaucoup  de 
dames  et  de  jeunes  filles,  en  tout  217  personnes. 

Au  printemps  de  1895  toutes  les  r6ponses,  dont  beaucoup 
accompagn^es  de  cadeaux,  ^taient  arriv^es  a  Toulouse  par» 
les  soins  de  notre  ministfere  des  affaires  6trangferes.  La 
Soci6t6  prit  alors  I'initiative  d'une  exposition  des  envois  de 
Russie  qui  montrerait  Timportance  de  la  manifestation. 
On  pourrait  en  meme  temps  photographier  tous  les  souvenirs 
selon  le  dteir  exprim^  par  certains  membres  de  la  famille 
imp^riale.  Cette  exposition  eut  lieu  le  samedi  30  juin  1895, 
a  la  Faculty  des  Sciences,  dans  la  vaste  salle  du  Plan  des 
Pyren6es,  artistement  d6cor6e  de  tentures,  de  feuillage,  de 
drapeaux  frangais  et  russes  et  de  fleurs.  Aux  murs  ^taient 
expos&s  les  portraits  des  grands-ducs  Serge  et  Paul  Alexan- 
drovitch,  orn^  de  pr6cieux  autographes.  Sur  les  cotfe 
s'^talaient  vingt  belles  vues  de  Moscou,  envoyees  dans 
un  riche  album  en  velours  rouge  a  M.  le  baron  Marulaz 
par   le   grandnluc   Serge.      Au-dessus    de   ces   vues    ^taient 


448  cosMot»oLlS. 

exposes  des  autographes  emanant  du  cabinet  de  I'Empereur, 
de  la  plupart  des  membres  de  la  famille  imp6riale  et  des 
ministres  du  gouvernement  russe.  Sur  une  grande  table 
6taient  places  de  nombreux  objets  61c*gants,  artistiques, 
d'origine  et  de  fabrication  russes.  M.  de  S6m6now  avait 
cnvoy6  son  portrait,  dans  un  cadre  trfes  original  en  bois  du 
Nord,  au  president  de  la  Soci6t6  de  Geographic  de  Toulouse. 
Cette  photographic  ctait  entour6e  d'une  guirlande  d'un  gout 
parfait,  formic  de  fleurs  des  champs  au  milieu  desquelles  se 
jouait  un  ruban  tricolore.  II  y  avait  des  coupes,  des  tasses,  des 
gobelets  en  vermeil,  des  cuillferes  polychromes,  curieusement 
6maill6es,  des  qeufs  de  Paques  en  porcelaine  rare  ou  en  bois 
du  Nord,  des  boites  a  th^  orn6es  dc  peintures  repr6sentant  des 
scenes  de  la  vie  russe,  des  plats  en  bois  sculptds  avec  devises, 
des  fichus  en  trames  Idgcres,  des  echarpes  aux  franges  brodees  et 
ajourees,  une  reproduction  du  cclcbre  tableau  des  Noces 
Russes,  des  boites  a  gants  en  lattes  tressces,  des  tapis  au 
crochet,  des  ouvrages  a  la  main. 

L'ouverture  de  I'exposition  eut  lieu  avec  solennite  en 
presence  des  autorit6s  civiles  et  militaires.  Un  punch  d'hon- 
neur  avait  etc  organise.  Une  des  meilleures soci6t6s  chantantes 
de  Toulouse,  la  Chorale  des  Miniincs,  comptant  quatre-vingts 
executants  preta  son  concours  a  cette  fete  de  famille.  Au 
moment  des  toasts,  le  president  leva  son  verre  en  rhonneur  des 
•  dames  russes  qui  avaient  envoyc  de  si  gracieux  souvenirs,  de 
M.  le  senateur  de  Scm6now,  des  membres  de  la  Socicte 
imperiale  russe  de  Geographic,  et  ii  Tunion  des  deux  nations. 

V 

M.  Guenot  fit  ensuite  I'historique  complet  des  faits  en 
remontant  au  jour  ou  il  d616gua  M.  G.  Labit  aux  obscques 
d' Alexandre  III  et  au  couronnement  de  son  fils.  "II  existe 
en  Russie,  dit-il  en  terminant,  un  courant  sympathique  qui 
par  la  parole  et  pixr  le  livre  se  plait  a  nous  repr^senter  sous 
le  jour  le  plus  favorable.  Un  ecrivain  russe,  M.  Epi- 
phanoff,  a  pu  dire  r6cemment,  aux  applaudissements  de  son 
auditoire  :  '  Que  les  Fran^ais  valaient  mieux  que  leur  r^puta- 
tion.  On  trouve  dans  la  plupart  des  families  un  fonds  de 
dignity  d'honneur  et  de  vertu  qui  permet  h  la  society  fran9aise 


LES   BOUQUETS   DE   L'ALLIANCE.  449 

de  supporter  avantageusement  la  comparaison  avec  toute  autre 
nation.'  Ce  jugement  est  actuellement  partag6  par  un  grand 
nombre  d'^crivains  russes."  Voila,  certes,  une  appreciation  qui 
doit  nous  surprendre  de  la  part  d'un  citranger. 

Alors  meme  que  les  petits  bouquets  de  Toulouse  auraient  eu 
pour  unique  eflfet  d'amener  les  declarations  qui  precedent,  il 
y  aurait  lieu  de  nous  en  f61iciter.  lis  eurent,  nous  I'avons  vu, 
une  fortune  plus  haute  et  contribuferent  certainement  pour  leur 
part  a  former  I'alliance.  Cet  Episode,  qui  passa  inapergu 
en  France,  produisit  dans  la  haute  soci6t6  russe  une  impres- 
sion qui  dure  encore.  J'ai  vu,  non  sans  Amotion,  rann6e  der- 
nidre  a  Moscou  et  a  St-P6tersbourg,  plusieurs  "  Bouquets 
Toulousains "  conserves  avec  un  soin  pieux  dans  les  families 
qui  les  regurent.  La  Soci6t6  de  Geographic  de  Toulouse 
a  donn6  la  un  bel  exemple  d'initiative  individuelle  et  de 
dteentralisation  provinciale. 

L'exposition  des  cadeaux  russes  a  Toulouse  fut  aussi  une 
id^e  charmante.  Elle  6veille  dans  nos  esprits  un  rapproche- 
ment immMiat  avec  le  denouement  du  triomphal  voyage  du 
President  de  la  R6publique  a  St-P6tersbourg.  La  situation 
est  la  meme,  k  cette  difference  pres  que  les  cadeaux  re^us  par 
M.  Felix  Faure  ont  ete  offerts  non  a  un  particulier,  mais  a 
la  France  entifere  dont  il  etait  le  representant.  Nous  verrons 
sans  doute  prochainement  l'exposition  complete  des  cadeaux 
rapportes  de  Russie  dans  un  vaste  local  approprie  a  cet  effet.  La 
France  pourra  apprecier  en  parfaite  connaissance  de  cause  la 
gracieuse  courtoisie  de  la  nation  russe.  M.  Felix  Faure  devrait 
siiivre  Texemple  de  la  reine  d'Angleterre,  imperatrice  des  Indes, 
qui  a  offert  a  ses  loyaux  sujets  dans  I'lmperial  Institute  la  vue 
des  innombrables  cadeaux  re^us  par  Elle  a  I'occasion  de  son 
jubiie  de  diamant. 

Napolkon  Ney. 


*  L*lionncur  de  I'initiative  prise  par  la  socicte  de  Toulouse  revient  a  quclqucs 
bons  Frangais.  Mais  une  fois  de  plus  Ic  vieil  adaj^e  :  Sic  vos  uon  vobis,  s'est  trouvc 
realist.  Malgre  les  belles  promesscs  venues  do  Russie,  Texcellent  ouvrier  dc  la 
premiere  hcure,  M.  Guenot,  a  etc  oublie,  tandis  qu'une  manne  bienfaisante  sc 
rcpandait  sous  fonne  de  recompenses  et  distinctions  lionorifiques  sur  les  ouvriers 
de  la  dcrnigre  hcure.    Cette  omission  ne  peut-ellc  ctrc  rcparee  ?— N.  X. 


LA   LITTERATURE    BRETONNE 

(ESQUISSE   SOMMAIRE.) 


On  divise  d'ordinaire  le  celtique  en  deux  groupes  :  d'une  part, 
le  groupe  goid61ique  ou  ga61ique,  represents  aujourd'hui  par 
rirlandais,  TScossais  des  hautes-terres  et  le  dialecte  de  Tile  de 
Man  ;  d'autre  part,  le  groupe  breton,  coitiprcnant  les  trois 
idiomes  du  pays  de  Galies,  de  la  Cornouaille  anglaise  et  de  la 
presqu'ile  armoricaine.  De  ces  trois  idiomes,  un  a  disparu : 
le  cornique,  en  effet,  s'est  eteint,  voici  plus  d'un  sitele,  avec 
une  vieille  femme,  la  dernidre  qui  I'ait  parl6;  a  peine  en  survit- 
il  quelques  vestiges  suprdmes,  a  I'Stat  de  mots  isolSs,  dans  la 
langue  des  pfecheurs  du  Land's  End.  Le  gallois,  au  contraire, 
est  un  rejeton  en  pleine  pousse  et  dont  la  s6ve  s'Spanouit  en 
des  frondaisons  de  plus  en  plus  riches,  loin  de  tarir.  On  n'en 
saurait  dire  autant  du  breton  armoricain. 

Rarement  deux  branches  issues  d'un  meme  tronc  eurent  un 
destin  plus  dissemblable.  Et  cependant,  longtemps  apres  la 
separation,  Bretons  de  Galies  et  Bretons  d'Armorique  vecurent 
encore,  a  n'en  pas  douter)  dans  une  communautS  profonde  de 
sentiments,  d'idSes,  d'aspirations  et  de  reves.  Les  clans  qui 
avaient  du  passer  la  men  pour  fuir  devant  la  tempdte  saxonne, 
avaient  emporte  dans  leur  exode,  sur  leurs  barques  de  peaux 
cousues,  les  mythes,  les  traditions,  les  souvenirs,  toute  I'atmos- 
phfere  morale,  en  un  mot,  de  la  patrie  premifere.  Ce  fut 
vraiment  une  Bretagne  nouvelle  qui  se  cr6a  en  face  de 
I'ancienne,  et  des  memes  616ments.  II  y  eut  deux  Bretagnes  au 
lieu  d'une,  la  Petite  et  la  Grande,  Breiz-Meur  et  Breiz-Izel, 
mais  unies  quand  mdme  a  travers  les  eaux  comme  par  un  lien 
ombilical.  De  Tune  a  I'autre,  malgrS  la  distance,  circulait  un 
meme  courant  de  vie,  et  une  mdme  ame  hantait  les  deux 
peuples.  Les  dmigrSs  implant6rent  sur  le  sol  armoricain,  les 
pdcmes  cultes,  les  mgmes  ISgendes  qui  ileurissaient  4«uis  1^ 


LA   LITTERATURE   HRETONNE.  45  T 

grancle  tie.  II  n'^tait  pas  jusqu'aux  noms  des  lieux  qui  nc 
rappelassent  le  berceau  des  ancetres.  De  leur  cote,  les  Bretons 
de  Galles  gardaient  a  leurs  frferes  du  continent  un  fidfele  et 
tenace  souvenir.  Comment  n'dtre  point  frapp6  de  ces  rapports 
de  fraternite  etroite,  quand  ou  voit  les  Kymris  situer  en  Petite- 
Bretagne,  dans  la  foret  de  Broc6liande,  le  roman  des  amours 
enchant^es  de  Merlin  et  de  Viviane,  le  plus  d61icieux  episode 
peut-dtre  de  tout  le  cycle  arthurien  ?  Les  Bretons  de  France, 
par  contre,  rangent  au  nombre  de  leurs  saints,  de  leurs  demi- 
dieux  nationaux,  les  heros  de  la  l^gende  insulaire.  Par 
moments  mdme,  il  semble  que  ce  soit  au  foyer  encore  pr^caire 
des  exil6s  que  brille  de  son  plus  pur  6clat  la  flamme  celtiquj. 
Ainsi  s'explique  le  fait,  si  souvent  cit^,  de  cet  archidiacre 
d'Oxford,  Gauthier  Cal6nius,  venant  au  douzifeme  sifecle  raviver 
en  Breiz-lzel  la  m6moire  de  certaines  legendes  d6ja  presquc 
6teinte  dans  la  mfere-patrie.  Faut-il  invoquer  encore  le  mythe 
de  Tristan  et  d'Yseult  a  qui  le  L6on  servit  de  cadre,  le  grave  et 
m^lancolique  Leon  restc  depuis  silencieux,  comme  si  cette 
merveilleuse  chanson  d'amour  Teut  ensorcele  pour  jamais. 

On  sait  Tinfluence  que  ces  belles  conceptions  celtiques  ont 
exerce  a  leur  heure  sur  le  monde  europ6en.  Les  hommes  dii 
nioyen-age  en  conservferent  sur  les  I6vres  un  miel  exquis,  un 
baume  de  jeunesse  et  de  douceur  qui  leur  parfuma  toute  Tame. 
Apres  six  cents  ans,  cette  myst6rieuse  et  p6n6trante  po&ie 
dont  rimagination  bretonne  abreuva  le  monde  n'est  pas 
enti6rement  6vapor6e.  Elle  eut  certes  ses  sources  profondes 
aussi  bien  chez  les  Armoricains  que  chez  les  Gallois.  La 
d6marche  de  Gauthier  Cal6nius  en  est  une  preuve.  Mais,  il 
le  faut  bien  avouer,  si  le  fond  mdme  des  16gendes  fut  h 
rorigine  comme  Th^ritage  indivisible  des  deux  peuples,  leur 
expression  litt^raire,  en  revanche,  demeura  le  patrimoine 
exclusif  de  la  branche  kymrique.  Aux  Kymris  seuls  revient 
rhonneur  d'avoir  donn6  une  forme  aux  grands  reves  de  tout 
la  race,  et  c'est  a  leurs  bardes,  a  leurs  conteurs,  que  Ton  est 
forc6  de  recourir  d6s  qu'on  veut  se  faire  id6e  de  Tage  d'or  dc 
la  litt6rature  bretonne.  La  Bretagne  armoricaine  n'y  a,  pour 
ainsi  dire,  point  de  part.  Toute  la  p^riode  de  ses  annales  qui 
s'^tend  du  septi^me  siecle  au  quinzi^me  est  envelopp^e,  au 
point  de  vue  litt6raire,  d'un  vaste  silence.     Des  chartes  en  latin 


452  COSMOPOLIS. 

barbare,  entrem6l<i  de  quelqiies  noms  de  lieiix  et  de  personnes 
a  physionomie  locale,  voila  tous  ses  textes.  Interessantes  pour 
rhistorien  de  la  langue  on  pour  celui  des  institutions,  elles  ne 
servant  pour  Thistorien  de  la  littdrature  qu'a  mieux  marquer 
le  vide  absolu  de  toute  cette  longue  epoque.  Pas  une  voix  ne 
s'61eve  dans  ce  ddsert,  pas  meme,  h61as !  celle  du  fameux 
Gwenc'hlan  dont  on  feignit  d'avoir  retrouv6  les  proph6ties 
apocryphes,  a  dix  on  douze  siecles  de  distance,  dans  je  ne  sais 
quel  bourg  perdu  des  Montagnes-Noires.  On  peut  lire  dans 
le  Harzaz-  Brciz  un  de  ces  beaux  chants  indign6s  qu'on  liii 
attribue.  D'aucuns  se  plurent  a  situer  son  grand  spectre  bar- 
dique  sur  la  cime  solitaire  du  M6nez-Br6.  II  fut  donn^  a 
M.  de  La  Villemarqu6  de  I'apercevoir  la-haut,  par  un  de  ces 
mirages  de  sentiment  aussi  frequents  peut-etre  dans  nos  races 
brumeuses  que  chez  les  peuples  du  Midi.  Mais  les  yeux  seuls 
des  poetes  ont  de  ces  divins  privileges. 

An  reste,  de  ce  que  nul  echo  n'est  parvenu  jusqu'a  nous  du 
fond  de  ces  6poques  lointaines,  il  ne  s'ensuit  pas  qu'il  n'y  ail 
point  eu  de  vie  intellectuelle  en  Bretagne  durant  cet  espace  de 
pres  d'un  millier  d'ans.  II  n'en  subsiste  aucun  monument,  il 
est  vrai,  mais,  a  d^faut  d'oeuvres,  des  noms  de  chanteurs  popu- 
laires  nous  ont  6t6  transmis.  Tel  ce  Kadiou  que  mentionne 
le  cartulaire  de  Quimperl6  ;  tel  surtout  le  jongleur  vannetais 
que  le  bon  saint  Yves  accueillit  si  hospitalidrement  en  son 
manoir  de  Kervarzin  et  qu'il  h^bergea  six  ann^es  enti^res,  avec 
sa  femme  et  sa  tribu  d'enfants.  Par  exemple,  c'est  tout  ce  que 
nous  savons  d'eux.  Nous  n'avons  de  renseigncments  d'aucune 
sorte  ni  sur  les  exercices  auxquels  ils  se  livraient,  ni  sur  les 
themes  po6tiques  qu'ils  ddveloppaient  de  pr6f6rence.  II  est 
probable  que  c'6taient,  pour  la  plupart,  des  espfeces  d'afedes 
nomades,  analogues  a  ceux  qui,  de  temps  a  autre,  apparaissent 
e.icore  dans  les  pardons,  Comme  ceux-ci,  sans  doute,  ils  se 
servaient  rarement  de  I'^criture  pour  fixer  leurs  inspirations. 
Les  pofemes  6taient  le  plus  souvent  confi6s  a  la  seule  m^moire 
et  ne  se  perp6tuaient  que  par  la  transmission  orale.  Ils  se 
seront  ainsi  oblit6r6s  peu  a  peu  a  une  6poque  ou  les  Luze! 
manquaient  pour  les  arracher  au  n6ant.  Si  du  moins  nous 
avions  quelque  indice  sur  les  matiferes  dont  ils  traitaient  1  Le 
div(>rce  6tait-il   dtJja   en    train   de   s'accomplir  entre    I'esnrit 


LA   LITTERATURE   BRTETONNE.  453 

armoricain  et  la  vieille  I6gende  celtique  ?  Ou  bien  les  noms 
de  Tristan,  de  P6r6dur  et  de  tant  d'autres  avaient-ils  garde 
pour  rimagination  bretonne  leur  ancien  charme  ?  Cast  cc 
que  nous  ne  saurons  vraisemblablemcnt  jamais  :  rien  n'en  a 
transpir6  jusqu'a  nous,  et,  la  ou  les  donn^es  font  defaut,  il 
n'est  que  de  se  resigner  a  I'ignorance. 

Mais  il  y  a  une  classe  d'esprits  a  qui  les  silences  de  Thistoire 
paraissent  outrageants,  surtout  en  des  matiferes  ou  leur  patrio- 
tisme  est  int6ress6  ;  ils  les  reinvent  volontiers  comme  des  d6fis. 
Les  patriotismes  locaux  sont  particuliferement  intraitables.  Je 
croispouvoir  ajouter,sans  blessermescompatriotes,que  I'amour- 
propre  breton,  a  cause  des  tendances  individualistes  de  la  race, 
est  plus  susceptible,  plus  chatouilleux  qu'aucun  autre.  Quand, 
au  commencement  de  ce  siccle,  se  produisit  en  Bretagne  une 
sorte  de  r6viviscence  de  I'idde  celtique,  sur  laquelle  je  reviendrai 
tout  a  I'heure,  les  chefs  du  mouvement,  pour  stimuler  le  zele  de 
leurs  troupes,  s'attachferent  a  cvoquer  les  grands  exeniples,  un 
peu  trop  d^laiss^s,  des  ancetres.  On  rechercha  les  titres  tombes 
en  oubli,  on  secoua  la  poussiere  des  vieilles  annales.  La  de- 
ception f ut  profonde,  on  se  I'imagine,  en  constatant  les  6normes 
lacunes  de  ce  pass6  dont  on  se  promettait  tant  de  merveilles. 
II  importait  de  combler  ces  vides  a  tout  prix,  et,  r6solument, 
on  se  mit  a  Toeuvre.  A  defaut  de  documents  bretons,  on  avait 
le  tr6sor  de  la  litt6rature  kymrique.  Lady  Guest  venait  preci- 
s6ment  de  publier  les  Mabinogion,  Tout  ce  riche  6crin,  frai- 
chement  6tal^,  ne  faisait  que  mieux  ressortir  notre  misfere.  A 
c6t6  de  I'opulence  de  nos  heureux  cong6n6res  de  Galles,  nous 
avions  Tair  de  parents  pauvres.  Une  situation  a  ce  point 
humiliante  n'6tait  pas  acceptable  :  il  y  allait  plus  que  jamais  de 
I'honneur  national.  Comment  admettre  que  TArmoriquc  se 
fut  d6sint6ress6e  si  entierement,  et  pendant  un  laps  de  temps 
si  considerable,  non  seulement  des  h6ros  de  la  16gende  primi- 
tive, mais  des  grandes  figures  mumes  de  Thistoire  bretonne  ? 
Car  c'est  ainsi  :  nos  gloires  les  plus  authentiques,  celles  qui 
nous  appartiennent  en  propre,  lesNominoc,  par  exemple,  et,  si 
Ton  veut,  les  Du  Guesclin,  symboles  vivants  de  notre  race, 
n'ont  pas  plus  laiss^  de  traces  dans  la  conscience  bretonne 
que  les  fantomes  16gendaires  des  Merlin,  des  Arthur  ou  des 
Ga)ehaut.     Pas  un  pocme  populaire  qui  leur  soit  consacr^,  pas 


454  XOSMOPOLIS. 

iin  qui  les  metitionne.     Notre  6pop6e  locale  les  ignore.     11  est 
vrai  que  les  heros  de  I'histoire  sont  rarement  ceux  du  peuple, 
Mais  la   litt6rature  a  demi  savante,  la  litt6rature  des   clercs, 
sauf  peut-etre  a  une  6poque  toute  r6cenle,  ne  les  connait  pas 
davanta|;{e.     C'elait  la  un  6tat  de  choses  6videmment  des  plus 
facheux.     Les  patriotes  contemporains  s'attacherent  a  y  porter 
remede.     Ces  textes  qui  n'existaient  pas,  eh  bien  I  il  n'y  avail 
qu'a  les  cr6er.     II  va  sans  dire  que  la  premeditation  ne  fut  pas 
aussi  marqu6e  que  je  le  laisse  entendre.     Ces  choses-Ia  sont 
souvent   le  r6sultat   d'un   travail    myst6rieux  qui   s'accomplit 
obscur6ment  dans  les  limbes  de  la  conscience.     Les  hommes 
a  qui  je  fais  allusion  etaient  en  proie  a  une  sorte  d'hallucination 
{j6n6reuse.     lis  revivaient  sifecle  par  siecle  le  pass^,  refaisant 
telle  qu'elle  aurait  du  etre  Thistoire  litt^raire  de  la  Bretagne, 
suppliant   a  des   omissions   qui    leurs   semblaient   sacrileges, 
r6parant  envers  de  grands  noms  d'injustes  oublis.     Un  senti- 
ment fort,  a  la  fois  enthousiavSte  et  concentre,  comme  est  le 
patriotismc  breton,  pent  parfois  produire  des  effets  singuliers. 
Detaches  de  leurs  creations,  ces  ccrivains  furent  amenes  par 
une  pente  insensible  a  voir  en  elles  des  lemoignages  directs  des 
epoques   qu'elles   ressuscitaient,   a    s'appuyer    meme   sur  ces 
donnees  imaginaires  comme  sur  des  documents  reels.     Disons- 
le  a  leur  louange  :    quelques-uns  de    ces  fragments  cpiques 
sont  de  purs  chefs-d'oeuvre.     Lisez  en  particulier  ceux  que  M. 
de  La  Villemarqu6  a  produits  dans  le  Barzaz-Breiz.     lis  sont 
classiques.    Apres  les  avoir  lus,  vous  conviendrez  qu'authentique 
ou  non,  cela  est  beau  et  que  les  auteurs  de  ces  podmes,  quels 
qu'ils  soient,  portaient  vraiment  en  eux  toute  Tame,  tout  le 
genie  profond  de  la  Bretagne  d'autrefois.     Est-il  beaucoup  de 
visions  plus  saisissantes,  et  d'une  verite  litteraire  plus  intense, 
que  les  chants  intitules  Le  Vin  des  Gaulois,  La  Marche  d' Arthur, 
Mcrlitij  Le  Tribui  de  Nominoc  ?    Je  ne  cite,  a  dessein,  que  les 
restitutions  tentees  de  toutes  pieces.    Qui  ne  donnerait,  litteraire- 
ment  parlant,  des  liasses  entieres  de  textes  historiques,  pour  ces 
admirables  strophes,  d'une  inspiration   si   originale   et   d'une 
facture  si  achevee  ? 

Ce  n'en  sont  pas  moins  des  restitutions.     II  faut  arriver  a  la 
fin  du  quinzieme  siecle,  pour  trouver  des  textes  en  langue 


LA   LITTERATURE   BRETONNE.  455 

bretonne.  En  1499,  parait,  chez  un  imprimeur  de  Tr6giiier, 
le  vocabulaire  si  pr6cieux,  quoique  fort  incomplet,  que  Ton 
disigne  d'ordinaire  sous  le  nom  de  Catholicon.  A  partir  de  ce 
moment,  et  durant  les  trois  si^cles  qui  suivent,  on  voit  6merger 
9a  et  la  quelques  ceuvres.  EUe  attestent  la  vitalite  de  la 
langue,  mais  ne  t6moignent  guere  d'une  culture  profonde  ni 
d'un  g^nie  vari6.  Ce  sont;  pour  la  plupart,  des  61ucubrations 
pieuses,  d'une  grande  naivety  d'expression  qui  d6g6n6re  trop 
souvent  en  platitude.  On  voudra  bien  se  contenter  de  quel- 
ques titres,  comme  les  Heures  Bretonnes  (Middle  Breton  Hours, 
publi^es  a  Calcutta  par  M.  Whitley  Stokes),  le  Tnfasseinent  de 
la  Viergc  Marie,  le  Miroir  de  la  Mart,  le  Miroir  de  la  Confession, 
la  Doctrine  des  ChrMens,  etc...  Prose  ou  vers,  le  tout  est 
sans  doute  trfes  propre  a  Tddification  des  ames,  mais  si  vide 
comme  fond,  si  pauvre  comme  forme  qu'on  se  demande  si  le 
nom  d'oeuvres  litt6raires  pent  s'appliquer  a  de  semblables 
productions.  C'est,  en  g6n6ral,  le  cas  de  ce  que  Ton  est 
convenu  d'appeler  la  litt6rature  eccl^siastique.  Elle  peche  le 
plus  souvent  par  la  sdcheresse,  par  un  mysticisme  6triqu6,  sans 
chaleur  et  sans  vie.  Elle  a  6t6  en  Bretagne  ce  qu'elle  est 
presque  partout.  On  pourrait  s'en  6tonner,  apres  ce  qui  a  etc 
dit  et  r6p6t6  tant  de  fois  du  temperament  religieux  des  Bretons. 
La  religion  est  bien,  en  effet,  le  souci  supreme  de  cette  race. 
Mais  c'est  peut-etre  dans  ce  domaine  que  se  marque  le  mieux 
son  individualisme,  sa  repugnance  a  s'emprisonner  dans  les 
formules,  son  gout  pour  les  larges  symboles  ou  le  reve  se  meut 
a  raise  et  qu'il  reste  libre  d'amenager  a  sa  guise.  Les  plus 
grands,  les  plus  sinceres  exemples  d'ind6pendance  religieuse 
ont  6t6  donn6s  par  des  Bretons.  C'est  surtout  a  travers  ses 
saints  nationaux,  c'est-a-dire  a  travers  des  Celtes  comme  lui, 
que  ce  peuple  aime  a  contempler  Dieu.  On  verra  plus  loin  de 
quelle  po6sie  toute  personnelle,  toute  spontan^e,  il  s'est  plu  a 
parer  leur  16gende.  II  ne  faut  pas  chercher  trace  de  son 
inspiration  dans  les  ouvrages  dont  il  vient  d'etre  question.  II 
n'est  pas  responsable  de  cette  litt6rature  de  missel  et  de 
cattehisme. 

Le  promoteur  le  plus  actif  de  ce  genre  d'6crits  fut  le  pretre 
Julian  Maunoir,  C'est  une  des  physionomies  les  plus  originales 
4e  notre  dix-septifeme  siecle   bretop.     On  parle  aujourd'hui 


456  COSMOPOLIS. 

d'en  faire  un  saint,  de  le  placer  au  rang  des  vieux  thaumaturges 
de  remigration  primitive,  des  Tudual,  des  Budok,  des  Gon6ry 
et  des  (juennoI6.  II  en  est  digne.  II  eut  la  passion  de 
rapostolat.  N6  en  pays  gallot,*  il  ne  parla  longtemps  que  le 
franvais.  Mais,  les  hasards  de  la  predication  Tayant  amene  en 
Basse-Bretagne,  il  s'6prit  pour  cette  nouvelle  patrie  et  pour  sa 
langue  d'un  amour  si  fervent  qu'il  6tudia  I'une  afin  de  pouvoir 
evang^liser  Tautre.  On  sait  le  penchant  inn6  des  races  celti- 
ques  pour  les  explications  surnaturelles.  II  demeura  constant 
que  le  Pere  Maunoir  (An  tad  Maner)  avait  re^u  du  ciel  m6me, 
par  rintermediaire  d'un  ange,  le  don  miraculeux  de  la  langue 
bretonne.  Du  moins  eut-il  le  m6rite  de  la  r^habiliter  aux 
ycux  des  contemporains.  D6ja  Taristocratie  de  la  province 
alTectait  de  ne  la  plus  connaitre  et  le  clerg6,  n'aspirant  qu'a 
Toublier,  la  traitait  avec  une  superbe  d&involture.  La 
courageuse  initiative  du  P6re  Maunoir  la  releva  de  ce  m6pris. 
Xon  content  d'en  faire  un  instrument  de  propagande  orale,  il 
s'en  servit  pour  composer  des  cantiques  qui,  imprimis  a 
Quimper,  eurent  une  vogue  immense  dans  toute  la  Bretagne. 
Les  populations  t6moign6rent  leur  gratitude  au  missionnaireen 
le  canonisant  bien  avant  sa  mort.  On  le  repr&entait  comme 
une  espdce  de  sorcier  divin.  Les  iles  de  la  Mer  Sauvage 
suivaient,  disait-on,  sa  barque  sur  les  eaux,  quand  il  allait 
d'une  terre  a  I'autre  prechant  et  chantant.  Ce  qui  est  sur, 
c'est  que  le  Pi^re  Maunoir  a  raviv6  dans  TEglise  bretonne  la 
tradition  nationale  qui  mena^ait  de  s'6teindre,  et,  si  le  breton 
est  rest6  dans  nos  campagnes  la  langue  de  la  chaire,  c'est 
principalement  a  lui  que  nous  en  sommes  redevables.  Ne  fut- 
ce  qu'a  ce  titre,  il  avait  droit  de  figurer  dans  cette  sommaire 
esquisse. 

A  Tensemble  des  compositions  religieuses  se  rattache,  malgr6 
Tapparente  diversity  des  genres,  une  des  branches  les  plus 
importantes  de  la  litt6rature  bretonne  :  les  Mystferes.  lis  ont 
etc,  en  effet,  plus  encore  chez  nous  que  dans  le  reste  de  la 
France,  une  Emanation  directe  de  I'esprit  religieux.  Le  theatre 
breton,  a  ses  debuts  comme  a  travers  les  vicissitudes  de  sa 
longue  histoire,  est  et  demeure  une  institution  proprement 
liturgique.     Jamais  on  ne  le  voit  se  transformer  en  un  simple 

*  On  iippclle  ainsi  la  partic  de  la  Hrctagne  qui  n'est  pas  de  langue  bretoinic. 


LA   LIITERATURE   BRETON^4E.  457 

divertissement  profane.  II  garde  constamment  une  sorte  de 
gravitc  sacerdotale  et  je  ne  sais  quel  ton  precheur.  Car  il 
n'est  pas  jusqu'a  la  fa^on  de  debiter  les  vers  qui  ne  ressemble 
a  une  incantation,  a  une  psalmodie.  La  tradition  s'en  est 
conserv6e  intacte  jusqu'a  nos  jours,  comme  d'une  melopte 
rituelle  dont  il  serait  sacrilfege  de  transposer  une  note  ou  de 
deplacer  un  accent.  Ce  theatre,  quoique  ne  de  I'Eglise,  eut 
cependant,  comme  dans  les  autres  pays  d'Europe,  a  souffrir 
de  ses  rigueurs.  Les  acteurs  en  manifestaient  parfois  leur 
etonnement,  dans  les  prologues  dont  ils  faisaient  prec6der  les 
pifeces.  Ils  se  demandaient  avec  ing6nuit6  pourquoi  ces 
anath^mes.  L'un  d'eux  risque  cette  protestation,  si  touchante 
en  son  humility :  "  Feuilletez  les  Livres  Sacres :  vous  n'y 
trouverez  nuUe  part  que  ce  soit  un  p6ch6  mdme  v6niel  que  de 
reciter  des  Vies  de  Saints...  Non,  mon  Dieu,  je  crois,  au 
con tr aire,  que  c'est  une  action  meritoire  et  agr6able  a  Votre 
Majeste  divine,  et  que  ces  representations  contribuent  pour 
une  grande  part  a  la  conversion  des  p6cheurs."  Tous  sont 
convaincus  qu'ils  font  oeuvre  pie,  qu'ils  travaillent  concurrem- 
ment  avec  le  pretre  au  salut  des  ames.  Ils  prennent  trcs  au 
serieux  leur  mission  moralisatrice.  C'est  au  nom  du  Pere, 
du  Fils  et  du  Saint-Esprit  que  le  drame  commence,  c'est  par 
de  graves  et  ^diiiantes  exhortations  qu'il  finit. 

On  ne  connait  pas  de  mystfere  breton  anterieur  au  quinzieme 
siecle.  Le  plus  ancien  est  celui  de  Sainte  Nonn,  public  d'abord 
en  1837  P^  l'abb6  Sionnet  avec  une  traduction  de  Le  Gonidec, 
et  r66dit6  en  1890  par  M.  Ernault  qui  en  a  donn6,  dans  la 
Revue  celiique^  une  recension  definitive.  11  ne  remonte  vrai- 
semblablemerit  pas  au  dela  de  1475.  C'est  surtout  au  siecle 
suivant,  semble-t-il,  que  cette  forme  de  litt6rature  se  popularisa 
en  Bretagne.  Outre  la  passion  des  spectacles  commune  a 
tous  les  peuples,  elle  satisfaisait,  chez  la  race  bretonne,  deux  de 
ses  plus  nobles  instincts,  je  veux  dire  sa  religiosity  profonde 
et  son  gout  des  aventures  id6ales.  Elle  lui  vint  toutefois  du 
dehors :  ce  fut  un  produit  d'importation  plutot  qu'une  mani- 
festation spontan6e  de  I'esprit  national.  Nos  pontes  dramatiques 
n'ont  gufere  6t6  que  des  adaptateurs.  Ils  se  contentcrent  le 
plus  souvent  d'imiter  ou  de  traduire.  Le  Grand  Mystere  de 
JisuSf  public  par  M.  de  La  Villemarqu6,  n'est  qu'une  version  de 


45^^  ebsM'otous. 

I'oeuvre  des  frferes  Grcban.  Un  autre  cycle  comprend  les 
sujets  emprunt6s  a  la  Bible,  la  Cn^ation  dn  Monde,  par  exemple, 
et  la  Vie  de  Jacob,  L'6pop6e  carolingienne  aussi  a  6t6  ample* 
merit  mise  a  contribution.  Une  des  "  tragedies "  les  plus 
repandues  est  celle  des  Quatre  fils  Aytnon,  Elle  fait  encore 
la  joie  des  veill6es  d'hiver,  dans  les  m6tairies  bretonnes. 
Reste  une  categoric  de  pieces  particuliferement  int^ressantes, 
parce  qu'elles  roulent,  non  plus  sur  des  h6ros  exotiques,  non 
plus  meme  sur  des  saints  strangers  a  la  Bretagne,  quoique 
adoptes  par  la  devotion  locale,  tels  que  sainte  Barbe,  Genevieve 
de  Brabant,  Guillaume  de  Poitou,  mais  sur  des  personnages 
qui  soiit  dument  notres  et  dont  la  miraculeuse  l^gende  n'a  pu 
naitre  qu'en  terroir  celtique.  De  ce  nombre  sont  les  mysteres 
de  saint  Guennol6,  de  sainte  Triphine,  de  saint  Divy,  de 
saint  Guigner,  d'autres  encore  ou,  comme  en  des  fresques 
d'un  art  incorrect  et  primitif,  revivent  les  grands  ages  de 
r^migration  bretonne  et  les  traits  a  demi  barbares  de  ses  chefs 
religieux,  pasteurs  d'ames  et  conducteurs  de  peuples.  Ici 
encore,  n^anmoins,  les  auteurs,  au  lieu  de  se  livrer  a  leur 
inspiration  propre,  se  sont  astreints  a  suivre  presque  pas  a 
pas  les  Vies  latines.  Le  Mystdre  de  Sainte  Nonn  n'est,  ou  peu 
s'en  faut,  qu'une  paraphrase  du  texte  public  par  les  Bollandistes 
d'apres  le  manuscrit  d' Utrecht.  Mais  voici  un  fait  plus 
saisissant  et  qui  montre  bien  la  faiblesse  de  I'invention  drama- 
tique  en  Bretagne.  On  sait  I'immense  reputation  qu'eut  au 
Moyen-Age  la  16gende  du  *'Purgatoire  de  saint  Patrice"  et 
avec  quel  empressement  on  se  portait,  de  toute  I'Europe 
chr6tienne,  vers  Torifice  du  puits  sacr6.  Partout  on  faisait 
des  r^cits  merveilleux  de  la  descente  au  pays  des  ames  a 
travers  les  souterrains  de  Dungal.  Or,  il  a  fallu  que  ces  r6cits 
achevassent  leur  tour  du  monde  avant  que  Timagination 
bretonne  s'en  6mut.  Nos  poetes  ne  songferent  a  exploiter 
cette  veine  qu'aprfes  avoir  vu  le  parti  qu'en  avait  su  tirer 
Calderon.  Le  Mysiere  de  Louis  Ennius  qu'on  pourrait  croire 
puis6  aux  pures  sources  celtiques  est  la  transcription  quasi 
litt6rale  d'un  drame  espagnol. 

Est-ce  a  dire  que  nos  mystferes  soient  d6pourvus  de  toute 
originality  ?  Assur6ment  non.  Le  peuple  breton,  en  d6pit 
des  penetrations  6trang6res  qu'il  a  subies,  a  conserve  un  genie 


LA   LITTERATURE   BRETONNE.  4§<) 

Irop  personnel  pour  n'en  avoir  point  imprime  la  marque  meme 
a  des  oeuvres  d'imitation.  II  a  mis,  en  somme,  beaucoup  de 
son  ame  non  seulement  dans  les  pieces  qui,  en  raison  du  sujet, 
lui  ^taient,  pour  ainsi  parler,  domestiques,  mais  encore  dans 
celles  dont  il  s'est  assimild  du  dehors  les  principaux  6I6ments. 
On  le  reconnait,  ce  simple  et  doux  g6nie  de  la  race,  a  un 
parfum  tr6s  special  dont  il  serait  ais6,  dans  une  6tude  moins 
brfeve  que  celle-ci,  d'analyser  I'essence.  Qu'on  se  repr6sente 
une  forme  de  conception  a  la  fois  subtile  et  barbare  ou,  dans 
le  fatras  d'un  verbiage  enfantin,  6cl6t  soudain  une  fleur  de 
sentiment  et  de  myst6rieuse  po6sie,  et  Ton  aura  le  secret  du 
charme  que  gardent  encore,  aux  yeux  des  Bretons,  ces  com- 
positions d'un  autre  age.  Car,  d61aiss6  ailleurs  depuis  des 
sifecles,  le  Mystdre  est  demeure,  en  Bretagne,  un  genre  vivant 
et  d'une  seduction  singulifere  sur  I'esprit  des  foules.  Des 
troupes  d'acteurs  rustiques  parcourent  encore  les  bourgades 
du  Tr6gor,  encourages,  acclames  par  Tenthousiasme  populaire. 
Que  si  vous  errez,  le  soir,  par  nos  campagnes,  il  vous  arrivera 
plus  d'une  fois  d'entendre,  dans  le  silence  des  champs  assoupis, 
des  voix  rudes  s'61ever  tout  a  coup  et  psalmodier,  en  se  r6pon- 
dant,  une  sorte  de  cantildne  bizarre  a  qui  le  cr^puscule  prete 
quelque  chose  de  sa  solennit6.  Ce  sont  des  patres  ramenant 
leurs  bfetes  ou  des  paysans  rentrant  du  labour  qui  ddclament 
aux  6toiles  des  fragments  de  Sainf  Patrice  ou  de  Saint 
Gncnnol^.,,  Non  :   les  heros  que  pleurait  Ossian  ne  sont  pas 

morts  !... 

»  » 
« 

Si  les  Mysteres  refletent  un  des  grands  aspects  de  Tame 
bretonne,  les  contes,  en  revanche,  les  legendes  et  les  chants 
populaires  I'expriment  toute.  La  est  le  meilleur  de  son  g6nie, 
la  aussi  son  veritable  titre  litt^raire.  La  collection  des  contes 
a  6tc  publi6e  par  M.  Luzel.  EUe  est  c61ebre  parmi  les  savants 
du  monde  entier  qui  s'int6ressent  a  cet  ordre  de  recherches. 
On  y  voit  combien  le  peuple  breton  est  rest6  proche  de  ses  loin- 
taines  origines.  C'est  un  peuple  enfant  et  qui  a  tout  gard6  de 
I'enfance  :  la  fraicheur  de  la  sensibility,  une  extraordinaire 
puissance  d'illusion,  Tamour  universel  et  d6sint6ress6,  Top- 
timisme  sans  bornes,  une  croyance  indestructible  en  la  bontc 
de  tout  ce  qui  est.    Ce  qui  fait  le  fond  de  sa  mythologie,  c'est, 


4^)o  COSMOPOLIS4 

ccrit  M,  KeiKin,  '*  un  natunilisme  transparent,  non  piis  ce  nalu- 
ralisme  anthropomorphique  de  la  Grcce  et  de  Tlnde  ou  les  forces 
de  runivers,  erigecs  en  ctres  vivants,  tendent  de  plus  en  plus 
a  se  detacher  des  ph^nomcnes  physiques  et  a  devenir  des  etres 
moraux,  mais  un  naturalisme  rcaliste  en  quelque  sorte,  I'amour 
dc  la  nature  pour  elle-mcme,  I'impression  vive  de  sa  magie, 
acconipagnee  du  inouvement  de  tristesse  que  rhomme  eprouve 
quand,  face  a  face  avec  elle,  il  croit  Tentendre  lui  parler  dc 
son  origine  et  de  sa  destince."  La  vie  a  rarement  6t6  douce 
envers  les  races  celtiques ;  elles  ne  lui  en  ont  jamais  voulu  : 
elles  n'ont  meme  pas  eu  Tair  de  s'apercevoir  de  ses  duret^s  de 
niaratre.  Elles  ont  persistc  a  contempler  les  ctres  et  les  choses 
a  travers  le  fin  voile  d'idealisation  qu'elles  portaient  en  elles, 
Tel  est  le  secret  de  ce  que  Ton  appelle,  peut-etre  a  tort,  leur 
resignation.  En  realite,  elles  n'ont  cesse  de  vivre  dans  une 
sorte  de  mirage  int6rieur.  C'est  ce  mirage  qui  se  deroule  dans 
les  contes  ;  on  dirait  d'un  rdve  messianique  ou  tout  n'est  que 
luniiere  et  qu'enchantement.  La  nature  y  apparait  comme  la 
collaboratrice  aimante  de  Thomme  ;  elle  met  a  son  service  la 
plante  et  la  bete,  la  montagne  et  la  mer  ;  elle  veille  maternelle- 
ment  sur  le  faible,  Tinfirme,  le  d6sh6rit6  ;  elle  aplanit  devant 
le  Breton  tous  les  obstacles  et  le  conduit  par  la  main  jusqu'au 
Chateau  du  Bonheur  dont  les  tours  se  dressent  plus  haut  que 
la  terre,  suspendues  au  ciel  par  des  chaines  d'or. 

Mais  plus  encore  dans  les  legendes  que  dans  les  contes  se  r6ve- 
lent  les  facultes  profondes  de  la  race.  Le  conte,  en  effet,  n'est 
caractdristique  de  Tetat  d'esprit  d'un  peuple  que  dans  la  mesure 
du  tour  special  que  ce  peuple  a  su  lui  donner.  En  sa  sub- 
stance il  fait  partie  d'un  grand  patrimoine  primitif,  commun 
peut-etre  a  I'humanit^  tout  entiere.  La  legende,  au  contraire, 
est  un  produit  local  ;  elle  a  son  berceau  restreint ;  elle  ne 
voyage  pas  comme  le  conte,  ou,  si  elle  se  d6place,  il  est  rare 
qu'elle  d6pouille  son  empreinte  originelle  ;  le  plus  souvent,  elle 
s'etiole  et  meurt  sur  le  sol  meme  qui  I'a  vue  naitre  et  se 
developper.  L'imagination  bretonne  a  de  tout  temps  excell^ 
dans  la  creation  des  mythes  6tranges  et  troublants.  Elle  a  le 
don  des  rccits  mysterieux  qui  cveillent  le  frisson.  Qu'on  lisc 
entre  autres  ceux  que  Souvestre  et  Luzel  ont  traduits,  ceux 
aussi — ut    de    me  loquar--i\\\\   ont  6t6    groupes  sous  le  titre 


LA   LITTERATURE   BKETONNE.  46 1 

.suffisamment  significatif  de  La  LegenJc  de  la  Mart,  Ce  ne  sent 
plus  ici  des  conceptions  g6n6rales  ni  de  simples  amusements 
intellectuels,  mais  des  drames  vraiment  vecus,  tout  poignants  de 
r6alit6,  ou  le  conteur  lui-meme  a  6te  acteur  et  dont  il  garde  a 
jamais  dans  Tame  une  sorte  de  terreur  sacr6e.  Rien  n'atteste 
plus  61oquemment  combien  cette  race  est  passionn6e  de 
surnaturel,  combien  hantcie  par  Taventure  de  I'aU'deld. 

En  ce  qui  est  des  chants  populaires,  les  Bretons  dtablissent 
une  distinction  tris  nette  entre  les  gwcrzes  et  les  sdncs.     Les 
gwerzes  constituent  bien  ce  que  M.  de  La  Villemarquc  appelle 
"  Thistoire  po6tique  "  de  la  Bretagne,  a  la  condition  de  ne  con- 
fondre  point  les  6vfenements  peu  varies  qu'elle  embrasse  avec 
ceux  de  I'histoire  proprement  dite.     Le  peuple  ne  s'int^resse  a 
rien  de  ce  qui  se  passe,  ne  retient  rien  de  ce  qui  s'est  pass6 
en  dehors  de  son  horizon  6troit.     On  a  vite  fait  de  parcourir 
le  cycle  de  ses  souvenirs.     Quelque  Episode  miraculeux  de  la 
vie  d'un  saint,  des  apparitions  de  fantomes,  de  douloureuses 
Elegies  d'amour,  des  brutalit6s  ftodales,  un  rapt,  un  viol,  un 
infanticide,  de  tragiques   duels  ou  des  penn-baz*  de  paysans 
joutent  contre  des  6p6es  de  gentilshommes,  voila  les  thfemes 
ordinaires  de  la  gwerz,    Ce  sont  ces  faits  divers  de  la  chronique 
locale  qui  ont  fourni  la  matifere  du  romancero  breton.     En 
recueillant    le   premier,  dans   le   Bafzaz-Breiz,   les   fragments 
6pars  de  cette  rustique  6pop6e,  M.  de  La  Villemarque  a  merits 
a  bon  droit  le  titre  qui  lui  fut  alors  d6cern6  de  restaurateur  des 
lettres  breton nes.     Quand  son  livre  parut,  en  1839,  une  accla- 
mation immense,  mel6e  de  surprise  et  d'enthousiasme,  le  salua. 
On  cria  de  toutes  parts  a  la  merveille.     Jamais  chants  popu- 
laires n'avaient  donn6  a  ce  point  Timpression  d'un  art  acheve. 
C'6tait  rid6al  du  genre,  la  perfection  meme.     Le  peuple  seul 
n'en  avait  pas  tout  le  m6rite  :  on  I'a  d6montr6  depuis.     Mais 
si    les  publications  de  M.  Luzel,  faites  dans    un   esprit  tout 
diff6rent,  ont  modiii^  les  appreciations  de  la  critique  sur  la 
valeur  documentaire  du  Barzaz-Breiz,  du  moins  la  reputation 
de  notre  po6sie  nationale'  n'en  a-t-elle  pas  souffert ;  peut-^tre 
meme  en  a-t-elle  refu  un  nouveau  lustre.     L'inspiration  popu- 
laire    avait    plus    de    grace    et    de  d61icatesse  chez    de    La 
Villemarque,  mais  elle  a  plus  de  force,  une  spontaneite  plus 

•  Baton  a  tete  ferree,  qui  so  none  an  poijjnet  a  I'aide  d'un  cordonnet  dc  cuir. 

VOL.  IX. — NO.  XXVI.  10 


462  COSMOFOLIS. 

vigoureuse,  chez  Luzel.     Elle  se  revele  ici  dans  sa  cruditd  un 
peu  apre,  avec  des  in6galit6s  qui  d6concertent,  des  redites  qui 
lassent,  des  vulgarit6s  qui  choquent :  la  Muse  fiere  et  d^cente 
s'est  transformee  en  une  fiUe  sauvage  qui  va  pieds  nus,  au  gr6 
de  sa  fantaisie  vagabonde,  et  qui  n'a  que  des  haillons  pour 
tunique.     Sa  parole  est  rude  et  famili^re,  souvent  triviale  ;  ses 
propos  sont  quelquefois  decousus.      Mais,  en  retour,  quelle 
sinc6rite  d'accent,  quelle  fougue  6pique  par  endroits,  d'autant 
plus  entrainante  qu'elle  est  plus  inattendue  1  L'absence  de  tout 
appret,  de  tout  artifice,  la  grande  simplicity  forte,  cela  ne  laisse 
pas  d'avoir  son  prix. 

La  gwerz  est  la  po6sie  impersonnelle  de  la  Bretagne.     Sa 
po6sie  intime,  c'est  dans  les  soites  qu'il  en  faut  chercher  les 
exemplaires  les   plus   parfaits.     Tout  a  6te   dit,  et   de   fa9on 
definitive,   par   M.   Renan,   sur   le    besoin    de   concentration 
int6rieure  particulier  aux  peuples  celtiques.     "Jamais  on  n'a 
savour^  aussi  longuement  ces  volupt^s  solitaires  de  la  cons- 
cience, ces  reminiscences  poetiques  ou  se  croisent  a  la  fois 
toutes  les  sensations  de  la  vie  si  vagues,  si  profondes,  si  p6n6- 
trantes,  que,  pour  peu  qu'elles  vinssent  a  se  prolonger,  on  en 
mourrait  sans    qu'on    put    dire   si    c'est   d'amertume   ou    de 
douceur."     Une  telle  6pigraphe    ne  serait  point  d^plac^e  en 
tete   du    recueil    des    soncs,   toutes  reserves  faites,   d'ailleurs, 
sur  la  pauvrete  des  moyens  d'expression  dont  dispose  Tame 
des  humbles  et  des  illettr6s.    La  collection  la  plus  complete  de 
ces  chants  a  paru,  il  y  a  quelque  six  ans,  sous  le  nom  de  M. 
Luzel  et  le  mien.     La  catdgorie  la  plus  nombreuse — la  seule 
aussi  peut-fetre  qui  ait  une  valeur  litt6raire  incontestable — est 
form^e  par  les  chansons  d'amour.     Quoique  Tinspiration  n'en 
soit  pas  toujours  6galement  soutenue,  la  plupart  sont  empreintes 
d'un  caractfere  de  v6ritable  beaut6.     Elles  montrent  bien  que 
I'amour  est  la  grande,  je  dirais  volontiers  Tunique  afiFaire  du 
Celte.     Le  mot  dont  il  le  nomme  est  le  plus  harmonieux  de  sa 
langue.     Et,  pour  designer  la  femme  aimte,  c'est  lui,  c'est  le 
Breton  qui  a  su  cr6er  cette  appellation  si  caressante  :   "  ma 
douce  1 "     II  trouve,  pour  lui  parler  ou  pour  parler  d'elle,  les 
nuances  de  ton  les  plus  fines  et  les  plus  d^licates,  les  images 
les  plus  ing6nieuses  et  les  plus  fraiches.     Son  coeur  s'dpanche 
a  ses  pieds  en  une  perp^tuellc  action  de  graces  ;  ou  mieux,  il 


LA   LITTERATURE   BRETONNE.  463 

Tadore  de  loin,  reste  des  heures,  comme  en  extase,  a  regarder 
bleuir  dans  les  airs  la  fum6e  qui  s'616ve  de  son  toit,  porte  avec 
lui  partout  sa  pens^e,  s'entretient  de  la  magie  de  ses  yeux  avec 
les  vols  de  ramiers  qui  passent,  et,  la  nuit,  se  reveille  soudain 
pour  la  saluer  en  esprit  et  *'  rimer "  des  vers  a  sa  louange. 
Tous  ces  details  sont  dans  les  sdnes,  d'autres  encore.  Et  rien 
n'est  exquis  comme  cette  tendresse  contemplative,  si  discrete 
et  si  sobre,  a  6gale  distance  de  la  vaine  rh6torique  et  de  la  fade 
sentimentality.  C'est  la  vraiment  le  cantique  des  cantiques  du 
peuple  breton.  Tout  y  est  chaste  le  plus  souvent,  avec  une 
pointe  de  mysticit6  r^veuse,  un  je  ne  sais  quoi  de  languissant, 
de  religieux  et  de  triste. 

Gwerzes  et  sdnes  6taient  encore,  il  y  a  vingt  ans,  dans  toutes 
les  m6moires  et  sur  toutes  les  l^vres.  Des  chanteurs  nomades, 
pofetes  eux-memes,  les  colportaient  de  pardons  en  pardons, 
grossidrement  imprim^es  sur  des  feuilles  volantes  que  jeunes 
gens  et  jeunes  lilies  se  disputaient  et  qu'ils  conservaient  ensuite, 
pieusement,  dans  un  coin  de  Tarmoire  a  linge  ou  entre  les  pages 
du  livre  d'heures,  sur  une  tablette,  au-dessus  du  foyer.  L'hiver, 
aux  veill6es,  on  les  6pelait  d'une  ame  fervente,  tous  ces  papiers 
jaunis.  La  dure  saison  n'^tait  pas  encore  venue  pour  les  bardes : 
ils  n'6taient  pas  encore  all6s.  Tun  aprfes  Tautre,  Yann-ar-Minouz 
apr^s  Yann-ar-Guenn,  chercher  ailleurs  une  patrie  plus  cl^mente, 
cette  "  autre  Bretagne  "  dont  parle  Brizeux. 


*  • 


Au  d6but  de  ce  si6cle  pourtant,  on  put  croire  qu'une  fere  de 
rajeunissement  et  de  ffecondit^  se  rouvrait  pour  la  littferature 
bretonne.  Un  grand  reve  de  renovation  celtique  souleva  les 
imaginations  tout  enfi6vr6es  encore  par  le  recent  souvenir  des 
luttes  r6volutionnaires.  Quelque  chose  d'analogue  au  mouve- 
ment  qui  se  produisait  en  France  sembla  s'annoncer  pour  la 
Bretagne.  Je  ne  mention  ne  que  pour  mfemoire  les  declama- 
tions enfantines  des  Le  Brigant  et  des  La  Tour  d'Auvergne  qui 
faillirent  plutot  compromettre  la  cause  qu'elles  prfetendaient 
servir.  Le  fait  capital,  point  de  depart  de  cette  espfece  de 
Renaissance  armoricaine,  fut  I'apparition  de  la  Grammaire  de 
Le  Gonidec  qu'un  maitre  Eminent  devait  qualifier  plus  tard  de 
"  charte  litt6raire  de  la  Bretagne."     Un  dictionnaire  suivit,  puis 


464  cosMo^oLlS. 

des  traductions  de  T Imitation  de  J^sus-Christ,  de  I'Ancien  et 
du  Nouveau  Testament.     La  langue  et  I'orthographe  6taient 
d6sormais  fixces  ;  on  avait  en  mains  un  instrument  de  travail : 
de  tous  cotes  on  se  mit  a  I'oeuvre.     Le   Gonidec  put  mourir 
confiant  dans  les  destinies  de  sa  r6forme  :  il  lui  avait  6t6  donne 
de  lire  en  manuscrit  les  plus  beaux  Episodes  du  Barzaz-Breiz, 
J'ai  dit  le  retentissement  qu'eut  cet  ouvrage  par  dela  les  fron- 
tiferes  bretonnes  :   en  Bretagne,  son  action  fut  decisive.      II 
devint  le  livre  par  excellence,  la  bible,  sinon   du  peuple,  du 
moins  des  lettr^s.     Son   auteur  vit  accourir   a  lui,   dans  sa 
ftodale  solitude  de  Nizon,  des  processions  de  disciples  avides 
d'entendre  sa  parole  et  de  s'inspirer  de  ses  le9ons.     Le  clan  des 
celtisants  avait  trouv6  un  chef  :  ils  vinrent  tous,  clerg6  en  t^te, 
se  ranger  sous  sa  banni^re.    Ce   fut   une  v6ritable  croisade, 
men6e  par  des  "  chevaliers  "  de  lettres,  des  fnarc'hek,  comme  ils 
avaient  coutume  de  s'appeler  entre  eux.     Brizeux   lui-mfeme 
s'enrola,     De  cette  6poque  date  son  Tdlen  Arvor,  trfes  inf6rieur 
sans  doute  a  ses  po^mes  en  langage  de  France,  mais  dent  telle 
piece,  le"Ch6ne,"  par  exemple,  ou  les   "  Conscrits  de  Pleu- 
meur,"  arrache  encore  des  larmes  a  nos  paysans. 
•    II   en   fut,  h61as  !   de   cette   croisade,   comme  de  celle  de 
Gauthier-sans-avoir  :  d6s  les  premieres  6tapes,  elle  se  dispersa. 
Nous  soufifrons  en  Bretagne  du  mal  gaulois,  d'un   individua- 
lisme  outrancier,   rebelle  a  toute   union   durable,  et  il  est  a 
craindre  que  nous  n'en  gu6rissions  jamais.    Encore  convient-il 
d'honorer    d'un    hommage    m61ancolique    quelques-uns    des 
noms  qui  s'inscrivirent,  en  cette  memorable  circonstance,  pour 
combattre  le  bon  combat.     De  ce  nombre  furent  I'abb^  Perrot 
qui    s'intitulait    le    barde    de    Taul6,    Le     Scour,   barde    de 
Rumengol,   Rannou,   barde  du    Roc'h-Allaz,    Jean-Marie   Le 
Jean,  plus  connu  sous  son  gracieux  pseudonyme  de  "  Rossignol 
du  Bois-de-la-Nuit."     Un   souvenir  particuliferement  6mu  est 
du  a  Charles  de  Gaulle,  un  Fran9ais  celui-la,  un  Parisien,  mais 
qui  avait  vu  dans  son  nom  meme  une  sorte  de  predestination 
et  qui  s'6tait  fait  avec    autant  de  sagacit6  que  de  zile    le 
th^oricien  de  I'entreprise.     Si  Pergame  avait  pu  etre  sauv^e, 
elle  I'eut  6te  par  sa  conviction    et  par  son  talent.     C'est   a 
dessein    que    j'ai    distrait   de   cette    liste   Prosper    Proux   et 
Franyois-Marie  Luzel  :  ils  veulent  etre  classes  dans  un  groupe 


ii  <*" 


LA   LITTERATURE   BRETONNE.  ,  465 

a  part  et  sur  un  6chelon  plus  6lev6.  lis  sont  proprement,  avec 
M.  de  La  Villemarqu6,  les  classiques  armoricains  du  dix- 
neuvifeme  si&cle.  Le  Bombard  Kem^  du  premier,  et  surtout  sa 
Chanson  (Tun  Keru^roic,  le  Beprcd  Breizad  du  second  t6moi- 
gnent  d'une  verve  heureuse,  sinon  d'une  originalitc  saisissante, 
et  je  ne  ferai  pas  difficult^  de  joindre  a  ces  deux  recueils 
YAnnatk  de  M.  Quellien,  qui,  en  sa  forme  un  peu  pr6cieuse  et 
raffin6e,  est  sans  contredit  la  plus  jolie  fleur  de  ble  noir 
^panouie  "  loin  de  Bretagne." 

Quelques  mois  avant  sa  mort,  M.  Luzel  me  disait,  non  sans 
tristesse  :  "  Je  crois  bien  que  je  suis  le  dernier  Breton  cultiv6 
qui  s'obstine  a  6crire  des  vers  dans  sa  langue."  Je  ne  protestai 
point.  J'aurais  cependant  pu  citer  au  vieux  maitre,  ind^pen- 
damment  des  pontes  populaires  qui,  de  temps  a  autre,  donnent 
encore  signe  de  vie  dans  nos  campagnes,  les  noms  et  les  oeuvres 
de  quelques  esprits  distingu6s  rest6s,  comme  lui,  fiddles  a 
Tantique  idiome  national.  Mais  c'eut  6t6  r6pondre  par  des 
exceptions.  II  est  de  toute  Evidence,  en  efifet,  que  le  frangais 
tend  de  plus  en  plus  a  devenir  la  seule  langue  litt6raire  dont 
les  6crivains  bretons  fassent  usage.  II  y  a  des  raisons  multi- 
ples a  ce  fait :  je  n'en  indiquerai  qu'une  qui  me  parait  peremp- 
toire.  Quand  on  se  mdle  d'ecrire,  c'est  g6n6ralement  poiu"  se 
faire  entendre  d'un  public.  Or,  le  public  breton,  ou  bien  ne  lit 
gufere,  ou  bien  ne  r6serve  bon  accueil  qu'a  des  publications  en 
langue  fran9aise.  Dans  de  telles  conditions,  Tavenir  d'une 
litt6rature  qui  continuerait  d'etre  bretonne  par  I'expression 
comme  par  les  id^es,  semble  a  tout  le  moins  tr^s  problematique. 
Non  que  je  veuille  d6courager  les  g6n6reuses  tentatives  qui 
s'accomplissent  en  ce  moment  mdme.  Dieu  me  garde  de 
prof6rer  ici  des  paroles  de  mauvais  augure  qui  ne  sont  point 
dans  ma  pens6e.  Mais  je  doute  fort  que  I'heur  nous  soit 
accord6  d'assister  une  fois  encore  a  ces  grands  r6veils  de  la 
conscience  celtique  dont  nos  p6res  connurent  les  enivrements. 
La  race,  en  revanche,  a  devant  elle  de  longs  destins  et,  dut  sa 
langue  disparaitre,  la  forme  exquise  de  sa  sensibilit6  survivra, 
esp6rons-le,  pour  I'enchantement  du  m6nde.  Le  ^' Finis 
Britanniae,"  quoi  qu'il  advienne,  ne  sera  pas  prononc^  de  sitot. 

Anatoli  Le«Bra?, 


IBSEN  ET  GEORGE  SAND. 


NONCHALAMMENT  et  comme  en  se  jouant,  M.  Jules  Lemaitre  a 
laiss6  tomber  un  jour  de  sa  plume  si  vertigineusement  souple 
et  si  miraculeusement  fine,  le  rapprochement  que  voici : 
Norah,  la  gracile  poup6e,  I'^cureuil,  r6tourneau,  devient  tout 
a  coup,  dans  la  grande  scfene  d'explications  avec  son  mari,'*  je 
ne  sais  quel  Rousseau  des  fiords  ou  quelle  Sand  des  banquises." 
II  n'y  avait  la,  semble-t-il,  qu'un  de  ces  chocs  de  vocables 
auxquels  se  complait  la  virtuosity  de  ce  grand  alchimiste  de 
lettres,  et  non  une  th6orie  de  filiation  litt6raire.  Mais  la 
th6orie  n'a  pas  tard6  a  faire  son  apparition.  M.  Sarcey  n'a 
trouv6  dans  les  ameres  imprecations  du  Dr  Stockman n  contre 
la  tyrannie  des  majorit^s  et  dans  Torgueil  insens6  de  Solness 
le  Constructeur  que  "  les  lieux  communs  de  la  litt6rature 
dramatique  de  1828,"  et,  pour  M.  Emile  Zola,  Ibsen  a  6t6 
engendr6  tout  entier  par  le  romantisme  fran9ais.  Puis  M. 
Lemaitre  lui-mSme  a  repris  la  question,  largement  et  s6rieuse- 
ment,  dans  son  retentissant  article  sur  V Influence  des  Liit^ratures 
du  Nord.  Les  id^es  d' Ibsen  forment  la  substance  m6me  des 
premiers  romans  de  George  Sand  :  les  attaques  contre  le 
manage,  les  conflits  entre  la  morale  religieuse  ou  civile  et 
la  morale  non  6crite,  Tantagonisme  entre  les  droits  de 
I'individu  et  ceux  de  la  soci6t6,  Topposition  entre  la  religion 
litt6rale  et  la  religion  en  esprit,  tout  cela,  tout  ce  qui,  aux 
yeux  de  ses  admirateurs,  constitue  I'apre  et  hautaine  origi- 
nalit6  du  dramatiste  scandinave,  se  trouve  non  seulement 
indiqui^,  mais  encore  developp6  magnifiquement  chez  I'auteur 
de  Valentine.  Indiana,  c'est  d6ja  Norah  ;  L^lia,  c'est  d6ja 
H(<,dda  Gabler ;  la  Dame  de  la   Mer,    c'est  Jacques,   sans  le 


IBSEN    ET  GEORGE   SAXD.  467 

denouement.  Ibsdnienne,  la  Marcelle  clu  Mcunier  d'Augi- 
bault ;  ibs6nissime,  le  Trenmor  de  L^lia,  Sans  doute,  M. 
Lemaitre  est  trop  clairvoyant  pour  pousser  Tanalogie  jusqu'a 
I'extreme.  II  convient  qu'il  y  a  chez  Ibsen  un  accent  d'id^es, 
de  sentiment,  d'imagination  qu'on  ne  retrouve  ni  chez  George 
Sand,  ni  chez  Dumas,  ni  chez  aucun  de  nos  compatriotes. 
II  y  a,  chez  le  maitre  norv6gien,  un  gout  plus  prononc6  pour 
la  vie  morale,  une  preoccupation  plus  fervente  de  liberty  et  de 
perfection nement,  plus  de  religiosite,  plus  de  chastet6,  plus  de 
patience  et  d'endurance  dans  la  meditation  et  Tobservation, 
une  atmosphere  generale  plus  lourde,  plus  dense,  plus  chargee 
de  philosophic  et  de  th6ologie.  Mais  ce  ne  sont  la,  en  somme, 
que  differences  de  forme.  Le  fond  des  choses  est  identique. 
Et  la-dessus  M.  Faguet  est  de  I'avis  de  M.  Lemaitre,  et  celui-ci 
reste  d'accord  avec  lui-meme  dans  la  replique  a  Tarticle  que 
M.  Georges  Brandes  a  publie  ici-meme  sur  Hcntik  Ibsen  en 
France,  et  dans  lequel  I'emiiient  critique  danois  se  refuse  a 
reconnaitre  la  moindre  ressemblance  entre  la  revolte  intellec- 
tuelle  de  Henrik  Ibsen  et  celle  de  George  Sand. 

II  y  a  la,  ce  me  semble,  une  question  de  litterature  comparee 
qui  pent  presenter  un  certain  interet  aux  lecteurs  de  cette 
Revue  cosmopolite.  Est-il  possible  que  des  critiques  aussi 
avises  et  aussi  penetrants  que  M.  Faguet  et  que  M.  Lemaitre, 
dont  les  etudes  sur  Norali  et  les  Re^enanis  sont  de  veritables 
chefs-d'oeuvre  d'interpretation  psychologique,  se  soient  abuses  ? 
Pouvons-nous  admettre  que  M.  Georges  Brandes,  qui  connait 
si  admirablement  notre  litterature,  dont  le  livre  sur  le  roman- 
tisme  fran9ais  est  I'ouvrage  d'ensemble  le  moins  defectueux 
que  je  connaisse  sur  notre  grande  revolution  litteraire  et  qui, 
d'autre  part,  a  consacre  a  Ibsen,  dans  ses  Modenie  Geisier, 
une  etude  presque  definitive,  se  soit  trompe  de  tous  points  ? 
En  tout  cas,  il  y  a  problfeme.  II  se  pose  precisement  dans  les 
termes  que  voici.  Jusqu'a  quel  point,  toute  question  de  forme 
mise  a  part,  les  idees  d' Ibsen  sont-elles  non  pas  empruntees 
k  George  Sand  —  la-dessus  nous  avons  la  denegation  trfes 
nette  de  I'auteur  de  Brand, — mais  se  reduisent-elles  aux  con- 
ceptions maitresses  de  George  Sand  ?  Pour  le  resoudre,  il 
s'agit  simplement  de  lire  Ibsen,  et  non  seulement  les  drames 
modernes    de    sa    derniere   manidre,    mais   son    ceuvre   tout 


468  COSMOPOLIS. 

entiere,  depuis  ses  premieres  po6sies  jusqu'a  Jean  Gabriel 
Borkmaiiy  en  insistant  plus  particuli^rement  sur  ses  drames 
d'idees,  Peer  Gynt,  Brand,  Emperenr  et  Galil^en  ;  de  lire  ou  de 
relire  les  romans-types  de  ce  qu'on  a  appel6  les  trois  p6riodes 
de  George  Sand,  sans  omettre  VHistoire  de  ma  vie,  ni  surtout 
cette  merveilleuse  Corrcspondance,  ou  la  jeune  femme,  la 
mere  et  la  grand'mere  qui,  entre  tant  d'autres  formes  de 
g6nie,  a  eu,  au  plus  haut  point,  le  g^nie  de  I'amitid,  se  r6vele  a 
nous,  sans  fard  et  sans  voiles.  Cela  fait,  il  faut  confronter  de 
prfes  les  personnages  dominateurs  des  deux  6crivains,  leurs 
id6es  d'ensemble,  leurs  paroles  significatives,  puis  fermer  tous 
les  livres,  toutes  les  notes  et  meme  les  yeux,  et  laisser  se  lever, 
dans  la  p6nombre  de  la  mdmoire,  la  silhouette  intellectuelle 
et  morale  du  grand  solitaire  du  Xord  et  celle  de  la  sublime 
inspir6e  de  Nohant. 


Au  premier  abord,  sans  doute,  les  affinitds  semblent  dominer. 
Tous  deux  furent  des  r6voltt"s,  furent,  pour  me  servir  du  mot 
de  M.  Lemaitre  appliqud*  a  Ibsen,  inquiets  avec  g^nie.  Tous 
deux  sc  sont  rebelles  contre  les  cadres  inflexibles  de  la  soci^te. 
Tous  deux  ont  oppos6  aux  forces  reunies  dela  tradition,  des  con- 
ventions sociales  et  de  la  religion  r6vel^e,  la  vertu  de  I'individu 
sup6rieur.  Tous  deux  ont  subi  une  Evolution  profonde  et  sont 
all6s  d'un  romantisme  chim6rique  a  une  preoccupation  de  plus 
en  plus  pressante  des  r6alit6s  contemporaines.  Tous  deux  ont 
consid6r6  que  la  mission  de  Tecrivain  n'6tait  pas  tant  de  divertir 
les  lecteurs  que  de  leur  inculquer,  par  le  livre  et  par  la 
representation  th6atrale,  des  id6es,  et  avant  tout,  des  id6es 
morales.  Tous  deux  ont  entrevu,  par  dela  les  misdres  et  les 
bassesses  de  la  vie  pr6sente,  une  vie  meilleure,  plus  haute,  plus 
digne  d'etre  v^cue.  Tous  deux,  par  consequent,  ont  616  id6a- 
listes,  moralistes,  pr6occupes  de  probldmes  sociaux,  et,  dans 
une  certaine  mesure,  —  on  verra  tout  de  suite  dans  laquelle, — 
individualistes.  II  y  a,  entre  ces  deux  types  d'6crivains,  malgr6 
toutes  les  divergences  de  sexe,  d'6poque,  de  sensibility  et  d'in- 
tellectualite,  comme  une  identity  d'attitude  et  une  incontestable 
parents  de  gestes  :  il  semblerait  que  de  ces  deux  fronts,  lev6s 
vers  le  meme  ciel,  vont  jaillir  les  memes  pens6es  et  de  ces  deux 


IBSEN    ET  GEORGE   SAND.  469 

bouches,    convuls6es  des   memes    haines,   sortir    les   memes 
paroles. 

Mais  il  n'en  est  rien,  quand  on  y  regarde  de  plus  pr6s.  Ni 
pens6es,  ni  paroles  ne  sont  les  memes.  La  r^volte  centre  le 
present  s'est  exprim6e  chez  les  deux  ccrivains  de  fagon  trcs 
diff6rente,  pour  ne  pas  dire  opposee,  et  les  fleurs  qui  ont  germ6 
dans  le  jardin  secret  de  leur  ame,  n'appartiennent  ni  a  la  meme 
zone,  ni  aux  memes  especes. 

Et  comment  pourrait-il  en  etre  autrement  ?  George  Sand 
plonge  par  toutes  les  racines  de  son  etre  dans  la  France  du 
xviir  et  dans  celle  du  xix*  sifecle.  Toutes  les  id6es  litt^raires,  phi- 
losophiques,  sociales,  qu'elle  a  vues  voltiger  autour  d'elle,  elle 
s'en  est  empar6e  de  la  forte  prise  d'un  esprit  tou jours  en  travail, 
d'une  ame  toujours  en  mal  de  creation  et  de  perfectionnement. 
Elle  a  6t6,  on  Ta  dit,  I'^cho  de  la  France,  un  6cho  qui  intensifie 
et  qui  magnifie.  Elle  a  partag6  les  illusions,  elle  a  particip6 
aux  erreurs  de  sa  nation,  et  elle  a  6t^  Tune  des  incarnations  les 
plus  6clatantes  et  les  plus  completes  du  g6nie  frangais.  Ibsen 
est  un  Germain,  un  Germain  de  race  pure.  De  meme  que 
c'est  en  Islande  et  en  Norvege  que  Ton  a  retrouv6es,  presque 
intactes,  les  traditions  religieuses  et  h6ro*iques  des  peuples  du 
Nord,  de  meme  c'est  la  qu'il  faut  chercher  aujourd'hui,  dans 
son  intensity  et  dans  sa  puret6,  Tinstinct  germanique.  Les 
idees  europ6ennes  ne  sont  parvenues  a  Ibsen  qu'a  travers  le 
vdtement  danois,  et  ce  vfitement,  malgr6  les  incessants  ^changes 
d'id6es,  malgr6  la  multiplication  des  voies  de  communication 
intellectuelle,  malgr6  les  tentatives  de  rapprochement  entreprises 
par  des  hommes  de  la  valeur  d'un  Georges  Brandos,  ce  vete- 
ment  a  6t6  parfois  un  strange  travestissement.  De  plus,  s'il  est 
une  nature  r6tive  a  la  penetration  et  surtout  a  Tassimilation 
d'id6es  6trangferes,  c'est  celle  d'Ibsen.  C'est  son  peuple,  il  I'a 
dit  dans  un  de  ses  plus  beaux  pofemes,  qui  lui  a  vers6,  dans  une 
coupe  profonde,  le  breuvage  bienfaisant  et  fortifiant  ;  c'est  son 
peuple  qui  I'a  arm6  des  sandales  de  I'angoisse,  de  la  gibeci^re 
de  soucis  et  du  baton  de  I'exil.  Comme  Peer  Gynt,  il  a  err6 
loin  de  sa  patrie.  II  s'est  6x6,  tour  a  tour,  a  Rome,  a  Dresde,  a 
Munich.  Mais  partout  et  toujours,  c'est  a  son  peuple  qu'il  a 
pens6,  c'est  pour  son  peuple  qu'il  a  ^crit,  c'est  de  son  peuple 
qu'il  est  rest^. 


470  COSMOPOLIS. 

Id^alisme,  ferveur  moralisatrice,  pessimisme,  individualisme, 
les  mots  sont  les  mdmes,  sans  doute,  et  nous  nous  en  sommes 
servi  tout  a  Theure  nous-meme  pour  caract^riser  I'un  et  Tautre 
des  deux  6crivains  que  nous  6tudions.      Mais  le  sens  que  ces 
mots  recdent  diverge  6trangement  selon  les  nations  et  selon 
les  individus.     Prenez,  par  exemple,  ce  terme  d'individualisme 
qui   est  le  premier   qui  vienne   a   I'esprit,  pour  d^finir  et  la 
philosophie  g6n^rale  du  theatre  d' Ibsen  et  celle  qui  nourrit  et 
soutient  les  premiers    romans  de   George   Sand.      Combien 
vague  est  ce  terme  et  a  combien  d'interpr^tations  ne  peut-il 
pas  donner  lieu  ?      Ou  rindividualisme  commence-t-il  et  oii 
finit-il  ?     Rousseau,  le  veritable  pere  spirituel  de  George  Sand, 
fut  bien,  n'est-ce  pas,  le  protagoniste  le  plus  ardent  de  I'in- 
dividualisme,  I'ancetre  commun  de  tous  les  lyriques  modernes, 
r^crivain  chez  lequel  le  Moi  s'^tale  avec  la  plus  superbe  et  la 
plus  naive  impudeur?  Mais  ce  meme  Rousseau  n'est-il  pas,de  par 
le  Conimt  social,  le  thdoricien  le  plusredoutable  du  communisme, 
c'est-a-dire   de  la  doctrine  sociale  diametralement  oppos<5e  a 
rindividualisme  ?      Suivez,   dans  le  beau  livre  de   M.    Henry 
Michel  sur  VFd^e  de  l*Etat,  tous  les  avatars  qu'a  subis  le  concept 
de  rindividualisme  a  travers  les  theories  politiques  de  ce  sidcle. 
Appelez-vous  individualiste  celui  qui  affirme  le  caract^re  sacr6, 
inviolable,  inalienable  de  la  personnalit^  humaine  ?    Acceptez- 
vous  comme  formule  de  rindividualisme  la  maxime  de  Kant, 
qui  interdit  de  se  servir  d'un  etre  humain  comme  d'un  moyen 
et  qui  nous  enjoint  de  le  traiter  toujours   comme  une   fin  ? 
Mais  qui  n'est  pas  individualiste  a  ce  titre,  et  qui  Test  plus  que 
certaines  6coles  socialistes,  dont  le  but  est  de  bouleverser  de  fond 
en  comble  I'^difice  social,  pour  permettre  h  tous  les  individus, 
et  surtout  aux  individus  les  plus  humbles,  qui  n'y  ont  point  de 
place  ou  n'y  ont  qu'une  place  insuffisante  et  m6pris6e,  de  s'y 
6tablir   en   (^gaux    a    c6t6    de  leurs  freres    privil^gi^s  ?     D6- 
finissez-vous    rindividualisme,   avec    M.   Jules   Lemaitre,  "la 
revendication  des  droits  de  la  conscience  individuelle  contre 
les  lois  6crites  qui  ne  pr6voient  pas  les  cas  particuliers,  et  contre 
les  conventions  sociales,  souvent  hypocrites,  et  qui  n'attachent 
de  prix  qu'aux  apparences "  ?      Mais  alors  le  premier  maitre 
d'lbsen  n'est  pas  George  Sand,  mais  I'auteur  d'Antigone,  et  je 
ne  connais  guere  de  grand  esprit  dans  les  litteratur^  de  tous 


IliSEN   ET  GEORGE   SAND.  471 

les  temps  qui  ne  piiisse  revendiquer   Thonneur  d'etre  range 

parmi  les  individualistes.      Soumettez  a  la  meme  analyse  les 

termes  d'idfailisme,  de  pessimisme,  d'apostolat  moralisateur,  et 

vous  aboutirez  a  des  r6sultats  semblables.     D6fions-nous  de 

ces  termes  g6n6raux,    embrassant    tant    de   significations  et 

prfitant  a  tant    d'6quivoques    qii'il    n'est    point    d'auteur   ni 

d'ouvrage  auquel  on  ne  puisse  les  appliquer  a  de  certains  points 

de  vue  et  sous  de  certaines  reserves.  Affirmer  que  George  Sand 

et  Ibsen  sont  Tun  et  Tautre  id^alistes,  moralistes,  pessimistes  ct 

individualistes,  c'est  dire,  somme  toute,  fort  peu  de  chose.    Ce 

qui   importe,  c'est  de   discerner   quelle   a   ^t6   la   nuance   de 

rid(^lisme,  la  couleur  du  pessimisme,  le  timbre   de   Tindivi- 

dualisme  de  chacun  des  deux  6crivains  et  quelles  ont  6t6  les 

applications  pratiques  qu'ils  ont  tentd  de  tirer  deleursprincipes 

pour  r6soudre  les  grands  problfemes  qui  ont  agit6  Tame  de  leur 

temps  et  de  leur  nation. 

*  * 
* 

Envisag6s  a  ce  point  de  vue,  il  me  parait  Evident  que  George 
Sand  et  Ibsen  n'appartiennent  pas  a  la  meme  famille  d'esprits 
et  que  ce  ne  sont  pas  les  mdmes  6toiles  qui  peuplent  le  ciel  de 
leurs  id^es.  Sans  doute,  il  est  malais6  de  reduire  a  la  roideur 
de  formules  precises  les  vues  de  George  Sand  sur  la  vie,  sur 
I'amour,  sur  la  soci6t6,  sur  la  destin^e  du  genre  humain.  Ses 
vues  ont  souvent  vari6  selon  les  6tapes  de  son  d6veloppement 
intellectuel,  selon  les  germes  d6pos6s  en  elle  par  ses  expe- 
riences sentimentales,  selon  les  hasards  de  son  inspiration  et 
surtout  selon  le  g^nie  de  ses  inspirateurs  :  elle  a  vibr^  a  tous 
les  sons  de  la  gamme  des  sentiments  et  des  passions,  elle  a  m 
emport^e  par  tous  les  souffles  de  la  rose  des  vents  de  Tesprit. 
EUe-meme  a  dit  et  r6p6t6  qu'a  aucun  moment  de  sa  vie  elle 
n'avait  eu  la  pretention  de  faire  des  theories  ni  de  cr^er  des 
doctrines.  "  Quant  a  moi,  solitaire  jet6  dans  la  foule,  sorte  de 
rapsode,  conservateurd6votdesenthousiasmes  du  vieux  Platon, 
adorateur  silencieux  des  larmes  du  vieux  Christ,  admirateur 
ind^cis  et  stup6fait  du  grand  Spinoza,  sorte  d'etre  souffrant  et 
sans  importance  qu'on  appelle  un  poete,  incapable  de  formuler 
une  conviction  et  de  prouver,  autrement  que  par  des  r^cits  et 
des  plaintes,  le  mal  et  le  bien  des  choses  humaines,  je  sens  que 


472  COSMOPOLIS. 

je  ne  puis  etre  ni  soldat,  ni  pretre,  ni  maitre,  ni  disciple, 
ni  proph^te,  ni  apotre...  Je  ne  sais  rien,  jc  ne  puis  rien 
enseigner,  je  n'ai  pas  de  force,  je  ne  puis  rien  accomplir."* 
Neanmoins  il  est  possible  de  surprendre,  sous  toutesles  oscilla- 
tions de  cette  pens6e  mouvante,  quelques  grands  principes 
d'inspiration  auxquels  elle  est  toujours  rest6e  fidfele,  "  J'ai  eu 
des  principes,  6crit-elle  a  Flaubert.  Ne  ris  pas,  des  principes 
d'enfant  candide,  qui  me  sont  rest6s  a  travers  tout,  a  travers 
LMa  et  I'^poque  romantique,  a  travers  I'amour  et  le  doute,  les 
enthousiasmes  et  les  d6senchantements."t 

Et  tout  d'abord  George  Sand,  malgr6  toutes  les  apparences 
contraires,  a  6t6,  comme  ses  grands  maitres  du  XVIII'  sitele, 
profond6ment,  fonciferement  optimiste.    "  Je  suis  optimiste,  en 
d6pit  de  tout  ce  qui  m'a  d6chir6e,  c'est  ma  seule  quality  peut- 
dtre."t  Elle  a  6t6  optimiste  a  travers  une  longue  vie,  riche  en 
tempetes  et  en  deceptions ;   optimiste,   en  d6pit  des  6clatants 
dementis  que  Texp^rience  a  donnas  a  ses  beaux  rfeves  humani- 
taires  ;  optimiste,  malgr6  ces  journ6es  de  juin,  pendant  iesquelles 
elle  a  vu  sombrer  dans  le  sang  et  la  boue  ce  peuple  qu'elle  avait 
vu  si  grand,  si  sublime,  si  naif  et  si  g6n6reux  §  ;  optimiste  malgr6 
le  Coup  d'Etat,  malgr6  la  guerre,  malgr6  cette  Commune  enfiny 
ou  elle  "  s'6veille  d'un  reve  pour  trouver  une  generation  par- 
tagee  entre  le  cr6tinisme  et  le  delirium  tremens^**  qui  excite  en 
elle  '*  une  indignation  qui  la  d6vore  et  un  dugout  qui  I'assas- 
sine,"  Ij    mais  au  milieu  de  laquelle  elle  trouve  neanmoins  le 
courage  d'6crire  :   "  Pour  moi,  Tignoble  experience  que  Paris 
essaie  ou  subit  ne  prouve  rien  contre  les  lois  de  Teternelle 
progression  des  hommes  et  des  choses,  et  si  j'ai  quelques  prin- 
cipes acquis  dans  Tesprit,  bons  ou  mauvais,  ils  n'en  sont  ni 
ebranies  ni   modifi6s."1[    Elle  a  cru,   comme   Rousseau,   que 
rhomme  sort  bon  des  mains  de  la  nature  et  que  c'est  la  societe 
seule  qui  est  comptable  de  ses  vices.     Elle  a  cru  de  toutes  les 
forces  de  son  ame  a  la  liberte  humaine,  et  Mauprat  est  son 
porte-parole  lorsqu'il  s'6crie  :    "  Si  j'etais  legislateur,  je  ferais 
arracher  la  langue  ou  couper  le  bras  a  celui  qui  oserait  prdcher 

'  A  la  farnille  Saint-Simonienne  de  Paris,  i8  f^vrier  1836. 
t  A  Alexandre  Dumas  fils,  7  novembre  1861.  J  Ibid. 

§  A  Charles  Poncy,  9  mars  1848. 
II  A  Gustave  Flaubert,  ao(^t  1871.  ^  hi.,  28  aout  1871. 


IfeSEN   ET  GEORGE    SAND.  473 

ou  6crire  que  Torganisation  des  individus  est  fatale  et  qu'on  ne 
refait  pas  plus  le  caractfere  d'un  homme  que  Tapp^tit  d'un  tigre." 
Elle  a  cru,   et  la  encore,   elle  est  du  xviii*  sifecle,   a  Tegalit^ 
originelle  de  tous   les  hommes.     ''Je   te  dirai,   proclame   le 
Voyagenr  dans  la  Lettre  adress6e  a  Everard  (Michel  de  Bourges), 
je  te  dirai  que  la  grande  loi  d'6galit6,  tout  inapplicable  qu'elle 
paraisse  maintenant  a  ceux  qui  en  ont  peur,  et  tout  incertain 
que  me  paraisse  son  rfegne  sur  la  terre,  est  la  premifere  et  la 
seule  invariable  loi  qui  se  soit  pr6sent6e  a  mon  esprit  dans  tous 
les  temps,"  et  presque  a  la  mSme  6poque  (9  novembre  1835)  a 
Adolphe  Gu6roult :  "  Je  crois  que  I'amour  de  I'dgalit^  a  6t^  la 
seule  chose  qui  n'ait  pas  vari6  en  moi  depuis  que  j'existe/' 
Consid6rant  I'homme  avant  tout  comme  un  etre  de  sentiment, 
et  attribuant  a  fous  les  hommes  un  6gal  instinct  primitif  de 
bont6,  elle  n'a  pas  sembl6  voir  qu'a  c6t6  de  cette  identite  de 
sentiments,  d'ailleurs  extr<}mement  contestable,  il  y  avait  une 
in^galit^  de  constitution  physique,  d'intelligence  et  de  volont6, 
incontestable  et  incontest^e,  qui  rem.et»en  question  I'identitc 
emotionnelle  et  TempSche,  en  tout  cas,  d'exercer  le  moindre 
effet,    Elle  a  cru,  et  trfes  logiquement,  que  les  maux  de  I'huma- 
nit6,  etant  dus  a  la  soci6t6,  c'est-a-dire  a  des  formes  contin- 
gentes  et  temporaires,  n'6taient  pas  irrcparables,  mais  que  les 
hommes  s'acheminent,  d'un  pas  trfes  lent,  certes,  et  a  travers 
bien  des  fondriferes  et  des  mar6cages,  vers  un  avenir  meilleur  : 
aussi  fermcment  que  les  encyclop6distes  et  que  Pierre  Leroux, 
elle  a  affirm^   le  progrfes   ind^fini   de  I'espfece   humaine.    Ce 
progrfes,  comment  se  manifestera-t-il  et  ou  mfenera-t-il  Thuma- 
nit6  ?    Tout  d'abord,  c'est  en  pofete  qu'elle  entrevoit  Taurore 
d'une  r6g6n6ration.    "  Je  rdve  aussi,  aprfes  les  tempetes,  un  jour 
nouveau,   un  lever  de  soleil  magnifique,   des  autels  pares  de 
fleurs,  des  16gislateurs  couronn6s  d'olivier,.la  dignit6  de  Thomme 
r6habilit6e,  I'homme  affranchi  de  la  tyrannic  de  I'homme,  la 
femme  de  celle  de  la  femme,  une  tutelle  d'amour  exerc6e  par 
rhomme  sur  la  femme,  un  gouvernement  qui  s'appellerait  conseil 
et  novii^^s  domination^  persuasion  Qi  won  ip2S  puissance  J'*  Puis, 
elle  essaye  de  d6terminer  son  id6al  social,  sans  m6connaitre 
combien  il  6tait  difficile,  non  seulement  a  realiser,  mais  m6me 
a  pr6ciser.     11  y  a,  dans  le  Meunier  d*Angibault  et  dans  le  Com- 

*  A  la  fainille  Saint-Siinonicnnc  de  Parib,  18  fevricr  183O. 


474  cosMoroLiii. 

pagnon  du  Tour  dc  France^  des  pages  de  dialectique  sociale  qu  il 
faut  relire  et  dans  lesquelles  elle  essaie  d'accorder  ces  deux 
principes  contraires  :  le  droit  de  rhomme  heureux  a  la  conser- 
vation de  son  bonheur  et  le  droit  de  Thomme  miserable  a  la  fin 
de  sa  misere.  Elle  comprend  que  les  riches  ne  se  d^pouilleront 
pas  b6n6volement  de  leur  fortune  et  elle  a  vu  combien  peu  le 
peuple,  en  revendiquant  ses  droits,  a6t6  le  justicier  magnanime 
qu'elle  avait  imaging. 

Pour  elle,  dans  le  fond  de  son  ame,  elle  a  toujours  6te  et  elle 
est  toujours  rest6e  communistCf  tout  en  se  rendant  compte  d'ail- 
leurs,  comme  elle  T^crit  a  Mazzini  a  la  date  du  15  octobre  1850, 
que  "  son  communisme  suppose  les  hommes  autres  qu'ils  ne 
sont,  mais  tels  qu'ils  doivent  etre."    Si  on  laisse  les  choses  telles 
qu'elles  sont,  si  Ton  perp6tue  Tin  justice  du  droit  exclusif  et  du 
partage  in6gal.  Ton  condamne  les  nations  a  la  misere,  ou  a 
r^chafaud,   ou  au  bagne.     Si,  au  contraire.  Ton  retourne  au 
partage  rev6  par  nos  peres,  si  Ton  divise  la  terre  encore  plus 
qu'on  ne  Ta  divisee,  nos  enfants  la  diviseront  jusqu'a  I'infini,  et 
chaque  generation  exigera   un   nouveau  partage  qui  r^uira 
toujours  plus  retroit  domaine  des  ancetres  et  Th^ritage  des 
descendants.     "Avec   le  temps,    chaque    homme    arrivera    a 
poss^der  un  grain  de  sable,  a  moins  que  la  famine  et  toutes  les 
causes    de    destruction  qu'engendre  la  barbaric  ne  viennent 
decimer  a  propos,  dans  chaque  sifecle,  la-population.  Et  comme 
la  barbaric  est  le  r^sultat  in&vitable  du  partage  et  de  Vindividua- 
lisme  absolu,  Tavenir  de  Thumanite  repose  sur  la  guerre,  les 
cataclysmes,  tous  les  fl^aux  qui  tendront  a  ramener  I'enfance 
du   monde,  la  raret6  de   I'esptee  humaine,  I'empire  farouche 
de    la   nature,    la   diss6mination  et  Tabrutissement  de  la  vie 
sauvage."*    Pour  sortir  de  cette  redoutable  antinomie,  elle  a 
adh^r^  d'abord  au  communisme  absolu.    "  Puis  la  v6rit6  ayant 
6t6  outrepass6e  par  les  6coles  sociales,  qui  vont  jusqu'a  oter  a 
rindividu  sa  maison,  son  champ,  son  jardin,  son  vfitement  et 
m6me  sa  femme,"  elle  arrive  a  la  conviction  que  "  la  propri6t6 
est  de  deux  natures,  qu'il  y  a  une  propri6t6  commune  et  une 
propri6t6   individuelle.    Tout   ce  qui   concerne   les  voies  de 
communication,  les  routes,  les  canaux  et  les  rivieres,  qui,  de 
leur   nature,   sont  communes  a    tous,   les    grandes    mesures 

•  Lc  Contpagnon  du  Tour  de  France^  t,  11,  p.  23. 


IbSEN    ET  GEORGE   SAND.  475 

financiferes  portant  sur  les  hypothfeques  et  qui  peuvent  mettre 
I'argent  a  bon  march6,  tout  cela  devra  etre  socialist  avec  le 
temps,  pourvu  que  la  bonne  volont6  y  soit."*  Elle  entrevoit 
que  la  soci6t^  nous  demandera  le  sacrifice  de  Th^ritage  ;  mais 
c'est  elle,  alors,  qui  pourvoira  a  Texistence  de  nos  enfants,  elle 
les  fera  honnfites  et  libres  au  sein  d'un  monde  ou  le  travail 
constituera  le  droit  de  vivre.  La  soci6t6  ne  peut  prendre 
16gitimement  a  chacun  que  pour  rendre  a  tous.t 

Mais  ce  n'est  pas,  au  fond,  de  r6formes  mat^rielles  que 
George  Sand  attend  le  salut  de  I'humanit^  future.  L'avenir 
meilleur  ne  luira  que  quand  les  hommes  seront  devenus 
meilleurs,  que  lorsque  sera  reconnue  et  appliqu6e  par  tous 
la  grande  loi  de  Thumanit^,  la  sublime  loi  d'amour.  Elle,  elle 
peut  se  rendre  la  justice  que  sa  vie  tout  entifere  n'a  6t6  qu'un 
large,  qu'un  universel  amour.  Elle  a  aim6  tout  d'abord  ceux 
qui  lui  furent  proches  par  le  sang  ou  par  I'amiti^,  le  souvenir 
de  son  pfere,  sa  grand'mfere  et  sa  mfere  dont  la  mesintelligence 
a  jet6  tant  d'ombres  sur  sa  jeunesse,  ses  amies  de  convent  et 
ses  camardes  de  Nohant,  ces  Duvernet,  ces  RoUinat,  ces  Jules 
N6raut,  qui  vivront  dans  la  m^moire  des  hommes  grace  a 
Taffection  que  leur  a  vou6e  Tamie  incomparable,  et  elle  a 
aim6,  de  toutes  les  Energies  de  son  grand  coeur,  sa  fille  et 
surtout  son  fils  et  les  filles  de  son  fils,  et  la  premiere  et  la  plus 
touchante  image  que  son  souvenir  6voque  aujourd'hui  en  nous, 
c'est  celle  de  Taieule  de  Nohant.  Elle  a  aim6  —  il  serait 
pu6ril  de  le  taire — et  aim6  passion n6ment,  bien  que  toujours 
avec  une  maternelle  mansu6tude,  des  hommes  auxquels  elle 
n'a  pas  toujours  su  donner  le  bonheur,  mais  a  qui  elle  a  fait  le 
grand  don  d'elle-mdme,  sans  ombre  de  calcul  ni  de  reticence. 
Elle  a  aim6  ensuite  la  nature  dans  toutes  ses  incarnations,  et 
dans  ses  spectacles  grandioses  qui  r6vfelent  a  Thomme  tout 
Tabime  de  sa  petitesse  et  le  font  tressaillir  du  frisson  sacr6  de 
rinfini,  et  dans  ses  aspects  les  plus  humbles,  ou  elle  se  fait 
in  time  et  fraternelle,  depuis  la  pierre  brute  et  immobile  jusqu'a 
I'aile  diapr^e  de  I'insecte  et  le  frissonnant  calice  de  la  fleur. 
Elle  a  aim6  Thumanit^,  aussi  bien  les  rares  ^lus,  couronn^s  de 
I'aur^ole  du  g6nie,  que  les  petits  et  les  humbles.  Elle  a  aim6 
avant  tout  I'humanit^  souflrante,  et,  depuis  la  premiere  page 

•  A  Edmund  Plauchut,  24  septeiiibrc  1^*48.      t  Histoiir  de  ma  vte^  t.  ix,  p.  55. 


476  COSMOPOLIS. 

qu'elle  ait  cicrite  jusqu'au  dernier  feuillet  qui  soil  sorti  de  sa 
plume,  elle  s'est  constitute  Tavocat  de  toutes  les  causes 
d6sesper6es,  le  protecteur  de  tous  les  opprim6s,  le  d6fenseur  de 
tous  les  faibles  et  de  tous  les  persecutes.  Le  grand  principe  de 
sa  vie,  elle  a  pu  Icgitimement  le  caract6riser  a  Flaubert  dans 
les  termes  que  voici  :  "Aimer,  se  sacrifier,  ne  se  reprendre 
que  quand  le  sacrifice  est  nuisible  a  ceux  qui  en  sont  I'objet,  et 
se  sacrifier  encore  dans  Tespoir  de  servir  une  cause  vraie, 
I'amour.  Je  ne  parle  pas  ici  de  la  passion  personnelle,  je  parle 
de  Tamour  de  la  race,  du  sentiment  ctendu  de  I'amour  de  soi, 
lie  riiorrcnr  dn  moi  tout  sent,*** 

Cette  grande  loi  d'amour,  ce  ne  sont  pas  les  savants  ni  les 
philosophes  qui  I'ont  decouverte,  ce  sont  ceux  qui  sont  restfe 
tout  proches  de  la  nature,  la  femme,  Tenfant  et  le  peuple,  qui 
en  ont  eu  I'intuition  myst6rieuse.  Une  premiere  fois,  ils  sont 
all6s  precher  la  fraternity  et  Tegalit^,  les  obscurs  compagnons 
du  Christ  ;  aujourd'hui  encore  la  lumifere  luira  sur  quelque 
iete  inconnue  et  c'est  du  sein  des  masses  ignorantes  et 
malheureuses  que  la  v6rit6  jaillira.  Le  peuple,  le  grand  mineur 
de  la  soci6t6,  a  eu,  parmi  toutes  les  amours  de  George  Sand,  la 
premiere,  la  meilleure  place.  "  J'aime  vos  proletaires,  6crit-elle, 
d'abord  parce  qu'ils  sont  proletaires,  et  puis  parce  que  je  crois 
qu'il  y  a  en  eux  la  semence  de  la  v6rit6,  le  germe  de  la  civilisa- 
tion future...!  "Nous  aimons  le  peuple  comme  notre  enfant ; 
nous  Taimons  comme  on  aime  ce  qui  est  malheureux,  faible, 
tromp6  et  sacrifie  ;  comme  on  aime  ce  qui  est  jeune,  ignorant, 
pur  encore  et  portant  en  soi  le  germe  d'un  avenir  id^al.  Nous 
I'aimons  comme  on  aime  la  victime  innocente,  dispute  a  la 
fatality  6ternelle  ;  comme  on  aime  le  Christ  sur  la  croix,  comme 
on  aime  I'esp^rance,  comme  on  aime  Tid^e  de  la  patrie,  comme 
on  aime  Dieu  dans  rhumanit6."t 

C'est  de  Dieu,  en  effet,  qu'6mane  la  loi  d'amour  :  elle  en  est  la 
manifestation  la  plus  haute,  le  rayonnement  le  plus  pur.  On  a 
souvent  cit^  la  brulante  invocation  de  Valentine^  ou  George 
Sand  parle  de  "  Tessence  divine  de  I'amour,  que  Thomme  refoit 
d'en  haut,  sans  doute,  pour  le  reporter  sur  la  cr6ature  choisie 
entre  toutes  dans  les  desseins  du  ciel  "  ;  et  Ton  a  6t6  6tonn6  et 

*  A  Gustave  Flaubert,  25  octobre  1872. 

t  A  Adolphc  Gucroult,  11  fcvrier  1^136.  J  A  Joseph  Mazzini,  1848. 


IBSEN    ET  GEOKGE   SAND.  477 

quelque  peu  scandalis6  d'entendre  George  Sand  et  Alfred  de 
Mussel  invoquer,  aux  moments  les  plus  scabreux  de  leurs 
orageuses  relations;  le  nom  de  Dieu.  Mais,  n'en  doutez  pas, 
pour  George  Sand,  I'amour,  aussi  bien  la  passion  de  Thomme 
pour  la  femme  et  de  la  femme  pour  Thomme  que  I'amour  des 
hommes  pour  les  autres  hommes,  est  un  effet  de  la  grace 
divine,  est  du  a  Tintervention  de  Dieu  dans  Thumanit^. 
Certes,  elle  n'a  pas  conserve,  dans  sa  puret6  et  dans  sa  fen^eur, 
ba  devotion  du  convent  des  Ecossaises.  P2lle  a  fini  par  ne  plus 
croire  aux  dogmcs  d'aucune  religion  et  s'est  montrtie,  a 
plusieurs  reprises,  fort  dure  pour  les  membrcs  du  clerg6  catho- 
lique.  Et  cependant,  ce  fut  une  ame  eminemment  religieuse 
que  Tame  de  George  Sand,  et  parmi  toutes  les  amours  que 
nous  avons  6num6r6es  plus  haut,  il  faut  se  garder  d'omettre 
Tamour  divin.  "  C'est  Tceuvre  des  sifecles,  6crit-el!e,  de  saisir 
Taction  de  Dieu  dans  I'univers.  L'homme  ne  tient  rien  encore  : 
il  ne  peut  pas  prouver  que  Dieu  n'est  pas ;  il  ne  pent  pas 
davantage  prouver  que  Dieu  est.  C'est  d6ja  trbs  beau  de  ne 
pouvoir  le  nier  sans  r6plique.  Content ons-nous  de  9a, 
mon  bonhomme,  nous  qui  sommes  des  artistes,  c'est-a-dire  des 
etres  de  sentiment.  Croyons  quand  mfeme  et  disons  Je  crois  ! 
ce  n'est  pas  dire  '  J'affirme'  ;  disons  J*cspire  !  ce  n'est  pas  dire 
'Je  sais.'  Unissons  -  nous  dans  cette  notion,  dans  ce  vcxju, 
dans  ce  reve,  qui  est  celui  des  bonnes  ames.  Nous  sentons 
qu'il  est  n6cessaire,  que  pour  avoir  la  charity,  il  faut  avoir 
Tesp^rance  et  la  foi  ;  de  meme  que,  pour  avoir  la  liberty  et 
r^galit^,  il  faut  avoir  la  fraternity."*  Et  lorsqu'elle  ne  se 
contente  pas  de  sentir  Dieu  comme  une  artiste,  mais  qu'elle 
essaie  de  Ic  concevoir  en  philosophe,  elle  aboutit  a  des  vues 
tr&s  hautes  qui  se  rapprochent  de  celles  que  Lessing  a 
esquisstes  dans  son  Education  du  genre  humain.  ''  Cest  cet 
^ternel  mensonge  proclam^  par  les  ath^es  qu'il  faut  aux  femmes, 
aux  enfants,  au  peuple,  une  religion  dont  on  ne  veut  pas  pour 
soi-meme.  11  .faut  une  religion  pour  tout  le  monde,  de  plus 
un  culte  public  et  des  lois  qui  fassent  respecter  ce  que  la 
conscience  des  peuples  proclame  comme  la  plus  haute  expres- 
sion de  leur  vie  intellectuelle  et  morale.  Mais  il  faut  que  cett  e 
religion  s'^tablisse  par  la  foi  et  non  par  la  contrainte,  par  le 

•AM.  Desplanches,  25  mai  1865. 

VOL.  IX.— HO.  XXVI.  U 


47^  COSMOPOLIF. 

libre  examen  et  non  par  la  raison  d'Etat.  Aucun  homme  n'a 
le  droit  de  Timposer  a  son  semblable  avant  qu'il  I'ait  comprise 
et  accept^e  librement...  Toute  religion  qui  n'admet  pas  la  loi 
du  progrfes  dans  Thumanit^,  ou,  si  Ton  veut,  la  r&vHation 
sticcessire,  toute  loi  pr6tendue  divine  qui  ^tablit  qu'a  un  certain 
moment  de  la  vie  de  I'humanit^  Dieu  a  dit  aux  hommes  son 
dernier  mot,  doit  fatalement  ^tre  engloutie  sous  ses  propres 
ruines.  * 

Si  vous  rucapitulez  maiiitenant  cette  trop  rapide  et  irks  in- 
suffisante  esquisse  des  idees  de  George  Sand,  vous  vous  aper- 
cevrez  que  les  termes  que  nous  avons  employes  tout  a  I'heure 
ont  singulieremcnt  besoin  d'etre  cxpliqu6s  et  restreints.  Et, 
tout  d'abord,  nous  avons  trouve  que  George  Sand  n'est  pas 
pessiniiste,  mais  a  cte,  au  contraire.  Tun  des  optimistes  les  plus 
decides  de  notre  temps.  Je  n'ignore  pas,  sans  doute,  que  Lrlia 
est  comnie  un  breviaire  de  pessimisme,  ou  se  trouvent  accu- 
mules  tous  les  motifs  de  d6sesp6rance  des  Werther  et  des  Ren6, 
des  Faust  et  des  Manfred  :  soif  de  Tamour  et  impuissance  de 
I'amour  a  calmer  et  a  gu6rir  I'ardeur  exaltte  des  rfives  et  a 
s'assouvir  sans  souillure  ;  faim  de  la  science  et  incapacity  de 
rhomme  d'atteindre  a  la  connaissance  complete,  et  incapacity 
de  la  science  de  donner  le  bonheur  ;  antagonisme  entre  la 
science  et  Taction  et,  par-dessus  tout,  le  grand  ennui  d'etre, 
Tinvincible  d<Jgout  de  la  vie.  Mais  George  Sand  I'a  dit  elle- 
meme :  "  L61ia  n'est  pas  moi.  Je  suis  meilleure  enfant  que 
cela,"  et  pour  tous  ceux  qui  se  repr^sentent  Tensemble  de 
son  oeuvre,  il  n'y  a  pas  de  doute  que  les  lamentations 
de  Lelia  ne  soient  comme  la  repercussion  de  toutes  les 
idees  romantiques  que  George  Sand  s'est  assimil^es  au  d^but 
de  sa  carriere,  et  non  la  m6Iodie  intime  et  profonde  de  son 
ame  a  elle.  De  plus,  George  Sand  est  une  id6aliste,  s'il  en 
fut.  Mais,  la  encore,  il  faut  distinguer.  C'est  une  id^aliste 
optimiste,  c'est-a-dire  une  iddaliste  qui,  tout  en  s'apercevant 
de  Tabime  immense  qui  s6pare  ses  visions  de  la  r&ilitd,  ne 
d6sespere  pas  de  voir  s'accomplir  ses  rSves  et  repr^sente  les 
hommes  comme  si  leurs  ames  6taient  p6tries  de  son  id6al. 
'^Je  voudrais  faire,  6crit-elle  a  Balzac,  Figloguc  hnmaiu,  le 
pofeme,  le  roman  humain.     En  somme,  vous  voulez  peindre 

*  ffisionr  tk  iiui  vU\  t.  in,  p.  139. 


IBSEN    ET  GEORGE   SAND.  479 

rhomme  tel  qu'il  est  sous  vos  yeux,  soil !  Moi,  je  me  sens 
port6e  a  le  peindre  tel  que  je  souhaite  qu'il  soil,  tel  que 
je  crois  qu'il  doit  6tre."*  Enfin,  George  Sand,  quoi  qu'on  ait 
dit,  n'est  pas  une  individualiste.  Lisez,  je  vous  prie,  la  lettre 
qu'elle  adresse  a  son  fils  le  i^'^  septembre  1851,  et  dans  laquelle 
ellc  r6fute  avec  la  dernifere  vigueur  la  pure  doctrine  de  Tindi- 
vidualisme  soutenue  par  le  pasteur  unitaire  Channing.  Ecou- 
tez  ce  cri  d'horreur,  jailli  de  son  ame  en  1845:  "  Je  ne  puis 
me  consoler  qu'en  me  jurant  d'6crire,  tant  que  j'aurai  un 
souffle  de  vie,  contre  cette  maxime  infame  qui  gouverne  le 
monde  :  Chacun  chez  soi,  chacun  pour  soi/'  t  Et  6coutez-la 
s'6crier  vingt-cinq  ans  plus  tard,  avec  la  meme  6nergie  :  *'  Je 
ne  peux  pas  comprendre  le  paradis  au  ciel  ni  sur  la  terre  pour 
moi  toute  seule...  Vivre  en  soi  est  mauvais.  II  n'y  a  de  plaisir 
intellectuel  que  la  possibilit6  d'y  rentrer  quand  on  en  est  long- 
temps  sorti ;  mais  habiter  toujours  ce  moi  qui  est  le  plus 
tyrannique,  le  plus  exigeant,  le  plus  fantasque  des  compagnons 
non,  il  ne  faut  pas."  J  M6ditez  enfin  cette  page  ou  George  Sand 
semble  pr6voir,  dfes  1849,  une  forme  de  Tindividualisme  contre 
laquelle  elle  s'616ve  de  toute  son  ardeur  d'ame  sociale,  et  qui 
est  pr^cis^ment  I'individualisme  d'Henrik  Ibsen  et  de  son 
grand  disciple  Nietzsche.  "  On  ne  manque  pas  de  raison  pour  so 
prouver  a  soi-m6me,  comme  font  tons  les  heureux  du  si^cle, 
qu'on  doit  soigner,  6difier  et  po6tiser  sa  propre  existence  pour 
faire  de  soi  un  instrument  actif  et  puissant  au  service  de  ses 
semblables  ;  que  se  sacrifier  et  s'annihiler  comme  les  premiers 
Chretiens  du  d6sert,  c'est  neutraliser  une  force,  c'est  6touffer 
une  lumi^re  que  Dieu  avait  envoy^e  aux  hommes  pour  les 
instruire  et  les  sauver.  Mais  que  d'orgueil  dans  ce  raisonne- 
ment,  tout  juste  qu'il  semble  dans  la  bouche  de  certains  hom- 
mes ^clair&et  sincferes  !  Ccst  le  raisonnemcnt  de  I'aristocraiie,''^ 
Et  ne  dites  pas  que  j'ai  choisi  mes  citations  dans  les  romans 
socialistes  et  humanitaires  de  George  Sand  et  dans  les  lettres 
de  sa  vieillesse,  ou,  assagie  et  rass^r^n^e,  "  ayant  sem^  sur  ses 
volcans  de  I'herbe  et  des  fleurs,"  elle  a  fini  par  renoncer  a 
r^goiste  orgueil  de  son  moi.     Regardez  de  pres  la  date  des 

•  Lc  Compaction  du  Tour  dc  Funur,  Preface  clc  1S51. 
f  A  Charies  Ponc}',  12  septembre  1845. 
J  A  Gustave  Flaubert,  25  et  27  octobre  1872, 
.  $  Le  Matni€r(fAngib{ii4ltyp,2S2, 


480  COSMOPOLIS. 

lettres  et  celle  des  oeuvres  dont  je  me  suis  servi ;  constatez  que, 
pour  toutes  ses  id6es  maitresses,  elle  est  rest6e  fiddle  a  elle- 
mfeme  pendant  le  demi-sifecle  qu'elle  a  ecrit,  ou  bien  ouvrez  tout 
simplement  Indiana  et  lisez  cette  page,  ou  George  Sand,  telle 
que  j'ai  essay^  de  la  caract6riser,  se  trouve  d6ja  tout  entire  : 
"  Pour  moi,  j'ai  plus  de  foi  que  vous  ;  je  ne  sers  pas  le  mSme 
Dieu,  mais  je  le  sers  mieux  et  plus  purcment.  Le  vdtre,  c'est 
le  Dieu  des  hommes,  c'est  le  roi,  le  fondateur  et  Tappui  de 
votre  race  ;  le  mien,  c'esl  le  Dieu  de  I'univers,  le  cr6ateur,  le 
soutien  et  Tespoir  de  toutes  les  cr6atures.  Le  votre  a  tout 
fait  pour  vous  seuls  ;  le  mien  a  fait  toutes  les  esp^ces  les  unes 
pour  les  autres...  Dieu  ne  veut  pas  qu'on  opprime  et  qu'on 
cicrase  les  creatures  de  ses  mains.  S'il  daignait  descendre  jus- 
qu'a  intervenir  dans  nos  ch6tifs  int6r6ts,  il  briserait  le  fort  et 
relfeverait  le  faible,  //  passeraif  ses  grand es  mains  sur  nos  Wts 
in^gales  d  les  nivellerait  cow  me  les  caux  de  la  mer ;  il  dirait  a 
Tesclave :  "  Jette  ta  chaine  et  fuis  sur  les  monts,  ou  j'ai  mis 
pour  toi  des  eaux,  des  fleurs  et  du  soleil."  II  dirait  aux  rois : 
"  Jetez  la  pourpre  aux  mendiants  pour  leur  servir  de  natte,  et 
allez  dormir  dans  les  valines  ou  j'ai  dtendu  pour  vous  des  tapis 
de  mousse  et  de  bruyfere."  II  dirait  aux  puissants  :  "Courbez 
le  genou  et  portez  le  fardeau  de  vos  frcres  d^biles  ;  car  dfeor- 
mais  vous  aurez  besoin  d'eux  et  je  leur  donnerai  la  force  et  le 
courage. 


If 


Dresscz  maintenant  en  face  du  portrait  de  George  Sand,  i>our 
lequel  il  faudrait  a  la  fois  I'^clair  romantique  de  Delacroix,  la 
bont6  souriante  de  Greuze  et  le  large  et  g6n6reux  pinceau  de 
Rubens  qui,  pour  repr6senter  la  Terre,  en  a  fait  une  femme  aux 
triples  mamelles,  dressez  le  buste  hautain  et  morose  d'Henrik 
Ibsen.  Ses  maitres  a  lui  n'ont  pas  6t6  les  larges  esprits  du 
xviir  sifecle.  II  n'a  pas  puis6  ses  id^es  chez  Leibnitz,  chez 
Pope,  chez  Locke,  et  chez  Mably.  II  n'a  pas  eu  pour  £duca* 
catrice  Tune  des  plus  charmantes  survivantes  de  la  soci^t^  de 
Louis  XV.  II  n'a  pas  v6cu  au  milieu  d'une  nature  douce  et 
riante.  II  est  n^  dans  un  pays  ou  la  nature  se  fait  rennemie 
de  I'homme  et  ou  celui-ci  a  besoin  de  se  raidir  dans  un  per- 
p6tuel  effort  pour  ne  pas  fetre  bris6  par  elle.  II  a  assists  dans 
sa  premiere  jeunesse  ^  I'^croulement  de  la  fortune  de  ses  parents. 


IBSEN   £T  GEORGE  SAND.  48 1 

II  a  connu  les  humiliations  des  revers  inattendus.  II  a  subi  les 
morsures  de  la  pauvret6.  11  a  re(;u  les  dures  lemons  de  la  lutte 
pour  Texistence,  etgout6  Tapre  triomphedes  difficulWs  vaincues 
au  prix  de  la  plus  extreme  tension  de  la  volont6.  II  a  ^t6  61ev6 
dans  un  milieu  puritain  ou  la  vie  morale  et  la  vie  religieuse 
constituent  I'incessante  et  tyrannique  preoccupation  des  ames. 
II  a  vu  a  vingt  ans  le  pasteur  de  sa  ville  natale  quitter,  au  risque 
de  livrer  a  la  faim  sa  femme  et  ses  enfants,  T^glise  etablie,  pour 
fonder  une  communaute  libre  soumise  aux  prescriptions  les 
plus  s6vferes,  et  pour  s'elever,  dans  de  brulantes  predications, 
centre  le  clerg6  orthodoxe.  Ses  idees  lui  ont  ete  fournies  par 
la  philosophic  allemande.  Kant  avait  d(§montre  le  primat  du 
Moi  moral  sur  toutes  les  autres  manifestations  de  Tame  et 
Fichte  a  pouss6  la  th6orie  jusqu'a  ses  derni^res  consequences 
en  affirmant  que  c'est  de  ce  Moi  que  I'univers  emane  et  que 
I'univers  n'existe  que  pour  rendre  possible  Taccomplissement 
du  devoir.  Schelling  et  les  Romantiques  ont  transports  cet 
Sgotisme  dans  le  domaine  de  Testhetique  :  le  Moi  le  plus  Sieve, 
celui  auquel  se  rivSle,  dans  une  mystique  intuition,  le  grar.d 
arcane  du  monde,  est  le  Moi  de  Tartiste,  le  Moi  gonial,  qui  a 
un  pouvoir  absolu  sur  les  etres  et  les  chose?,  a  qui  tout  est 
permis,  pour  qui  tout  est  legitime.  Et  le  bizarre  essayiste 
danois,  Soren  Kierkegaard,  a  traduit  a  son  tour  Tindividualisme 
esthStique  des  Romantiques  en  un  individualisme  mystique  et 
thcologique.  Chacun  d'entre  nous  porte  en  lui  "  une  ame  de 
gcant/'  toute  individualitc  est  d'ordredivin.  Elle  sc  rcvcle  par 
I'esprit  religieux,  par  la  foi,  et  cette  fui  est  en  contradiction  avec 
toute  raison  et  constitue  le  fruit  le  plus  pur  de  la  vie  intime 
Le  christianisme-ne  pent etre  I'objet  d'aucu nescience  objective  : 
c'est  Tunion  intime,  la  fusion  de  I'individu  et  de  Dieu.  Aussi 
Kierkegaard,  aprSs  avoir  dSbutS  par  la  dSvotion  la  plus  Stroite, 
rompt  en  visiSre  au  christianisme  officiel  et  declare,  dans  les 
derniSres  annSes  de  sa  vie,  qu'il  prSfSrerait  commettre  les 
plus  grands  crimes  plutot  que  d'entrer  dans  une  eglise. 

Voila  ce  quo  fut  son  milieu,  sa  vie,  ses  maitres.  Voici  ce  qui 
en  est  rSsultS.  Avant  tout,  Ibsen  est  pessimiste.  Tun  des  pessi- 
mistes  les  plus  entiers  et  les  plus  complets  que  je  connaisse.  11 
est  pessimiste  quant  au  passS,  quant  au  present  et  mSme  —  je 
le  crois,  contrairement  a  M.  Brandts  —  quant  a  I'avenir.  II  est 


482  COSMOPOLIS. 

pessimistc  en  ce  qui  concerne  les  rapports  de  rhomme  avec  la 
femme,  et  les  rapports  de  rhomme  avec  la  societc,  et  entin  les 
rapports  de  Thomme  avec  Dieu.  Idealiste,  certes,  il  Test ;  et  c'est 
parce  qii 'il  est  id6aliste,  qu'il  est  pessimiste.  Son  id6al  est  si  haut 
plac6,  et  les  hommes  et  les  choses  lui  en  paraissent  si  infiniment 
eloign^s,  qu'il  d6sesperc  de  jamais  les  voir  se  rejoindre.  Et 
dans  la  tristesse  que  cette  conviction  6veille  dans  son  esprit, 
n'entre  aucnne  parcelle  de  tendresse,  aucun  atome  de  piti6.  11 
ne  songe  pas  un  instant  a  se  pencher  avec  sympathie  sur  les 
faiblesses,  les  lachetes  et  les  misferes  de  cette  race,  a  laquelle, 
somme  toute,  il  appartient,  lui  aussi.  11  n'a  en  aucune  fa^on 
cette  *'  religion  de  la  souff ranee  humaine  "  dont  George  Sand  a 
6t6  un  apotre  aussi  fervent  que  George  Eliot,  que  L6on 
Tolstoi  et  que  Dostoiewsky.  Ce  qu'il  faut  aux  hommes,  ce  n'est 
pas  cette  lache  commiseration  que  raille  si  cruellement  Brand  ; 
ce  qu'il  leur  faut,  c'est  le  glaive  de  la  justice,  c'est  le  fouet  de 
I'indignation,  c'est  le  knout  de  la  satire.  Si  George  Sand  a  et6 
une  idealiste  optimiste  qui  a  6crit  I'^glogue  et  I'idylle  de  I'hu- 
manit6,  Ibsen  est  un  idealiste  pessimiste  qui  a  6crit  les  plus 
sanglantes  satires  que  notre  temps  ait  produites. 

Ibsen  ne  croit  pas  que  f  homme  sorte  bon  des  mains  de  la 
nature  :  il  en  a  trop  scrute  la  conformation  intime,  la  perversity 
originelle  des  instincts  et  Tinassouvissable  soif  de  jouissances. 
Ibsen  ne  croit  pas  —  et  c'est  la  le  premier  et  essentiel  verset  de 
son  credo  —  a  Tegalitd  primitive  des  hommes.  De  merae  qu'il 
y  a  des  differences  radicales  entre  les  especes  animales,  il  y  a 
des  abimes  infranchissables  entre  les  individus.  Nous  avons 
beau  nous  rebeller,  c'est  rin^galite  et  non  I'tgalite  qui  est  la  loi 
de  I'univers.  II  y  a  une  hierarchic  physique,  intellectuelle  et 
morale  qui  entraine  n^cessairement  une  hierarchic  sociale.  Et 
il  ne  suffit  pas  meme  du  vouloir  le  i5lus  energique  pour  s'eiever 
d'une  caste  morale  vers  une  caste  plus  haute.  Nous  sommes 
les  esclaves  d'une  constitution  physique  et  d'une  constitution 
morale  contre  lesquelles  toute  lutte  est  impuissante.  Nous 
portons  6crit  en  nous,  avant  notre  naissance,  en  lettres  inde- 
lebiles,  le  mot  de  notre  destin6e.  Nous  subissons  la  tyrannic 
aussi  bien  des  vertus  que  des  vices  de  nos  anc6tres :  Oswald 
Alving  est  aussi  surement  pr6destin6  a  la  folic  que  le  pasteur 
Rosmer  a  la  soumission  aux  lois  sociales  et  morales,  au-dessus 


IBSEN   ET  GEORGE  SAJ^D.  483 

desquelles  il  tente  en  vain  cle  s'elever.  L'in61uctable  fatiim 
domine  la  vie  des  individus,  comme  il  domine  la  vie  des  nations, 
"  Tu  dois  faire  le  regne,  dit  la  Voix  que  Maximos  a  evoqu^e  a 
son  maitre  Julien.  —  Quel  r^gnc  ?  —  Le  regne.  —  Et  par  quels 
moyens  ?  —  Par  le  inoyen  dc  la  libcrtc,  —  Acheve  !  —  Quel  est  le 
c  It  em  in  de  la  liberie  f  —  Le  c  hem  in  He  la  ndcessitc.  —  Et  par  quel 
pouvoir  ?  —  Par  la  volont6.  —  Que  dois-je  vouloir  !  -  Ce  qii*il 
fant  que  in  veuillesJ* —  Ce  n'est  pas  que  des  lois  ne  president 
a  la  vie  des  nations  comme  a  celle  des  individus.  Mais  ces  lois, 
il  faut  savoir  les  pinetrer.  Y  reussit-on,  parvient-on  a  deviner  le 
mystfere  de  I'avenir,  a  s'identifier  avec  les  aspirations  incon- 
scientes  de  lY*poquc  a  laquellc  on  vit,  on  est  hcureux,  on 
s'appelle  Hakon  et  on  I'emporte  sur  Skule,  Tctcrnel  douteur. 
Se  trompe-t-on,  veut-on  aller  a  contre-marce  de  la  destince,  on 
est  miserablement  bris6  ;  eut-on  le  courage  et  le  g<5nie  d'un 
Julien,  on  est,  tout  au  plus,  un  fleau  n6cessaire  de  la  main 
divine.  Le  Dieu  d' Ibsen,  en  effet,  ne  ressemble  en  rien  au  Dieu 
de  George  Sand,  qui  a  fait  les  hommes  libres  et  <5gaux,  qui  les 
a  cr66s  par  besoin  d'amour  et  qui  leur  a  inspire  la  loi  d'amour 
et  de  fraternity.  Le  Dieu  d'lbsen  est  un  Dieu  severe  qui  jugc 
et  qui  chatie  impitoyablement.  Ce  n'est  pas,  comme  le  dit 
Brand,  un  vieillard  cass^,  plein  de  mansuetude  et  de  lache  in- 
dulgence, mais  un  vigoureux  adolescent,  un  guerrier  au  glaive 
flamboyant.  Le  grand  moyen  dont  il  se  sert  pour  clever,  c'est  la 
souflrance.  La  soufFrance  est  la  condition  indispensable  dc 
tout  progrcs  moral  et  clle  est  —  ainsi  que  le  dit  le  Skalde  des 
Pretendanis  de  la  Couro/iue-  -hi  source  du  genie  :  c'est  parce  que 
Julien,  le  lamentable  instrument  de  la  n6cessit6,  a  soumis  les 
Chretiens  aux  pires  tortures,  que  le  christianisme  a  pu 
triompher  de  toutes  les  forces  liguees  contre  lui. 

L'homme,  ainsi  prisonnier  de  la  destin^e  et  de  ses  instincts 
ataviques,  suivons-le  maintenant  dans  les  relations  essentielles 
qu'il  entretient  avec  ses  semblables.  Prenons  tout  d'abord  les 
relations  de  Thomme  avec  la  femme.  C'est  le  grand  theme,  Ic 
theme  unique,  en  somme,  des  romansde  George  Sand,  puisque 
le  probleme  social  lui-meme,  elle  a  pense  le  r^soudre  par  des 
mariages  entre  grandes  dames  et  prol^taires,  et  c'est  de  la 
solution  identique  donnce  par  les  deux  ^crivains  au  probleme 
de  Tamour  et  du  mariage,  qu'on  a  pris  prctexte  pour  voir  en 


484  COSMOPOLIS. 

Ibsen  un  g6nie  congenial  du  gdnie  de  George  Sand.  Or 
notons  avant  tout  que  la  question  de  Tamour,  en  tant  que 
passion,  joue  dans  les  drames  d'Ibsen  un  role  singulidrement 
efface.  Je  sais  bien  que,  dans  les  pifeces  de  sa  jeunesse,  Ibsen 
a  pay6  son  tribut  a  la  conception  romantique  de  I'amour. 
Mais  dte  qu'il  a  6t6  en  possession  de  son  originality,  c'est  une 
question  sur  laquelle  il  semble  passer  avec  d6dain.  Et  cela 
s'explique,  du  reste.  Ibsen  s'int6resse  peu  a  I'amour,  parce  que 
lui-mcme  —  en  tant  qu'^crivain  —  a  peu  aini6,  parce  que  liii- 
mcmc  est  Tune  des  natures  les  plus  rebellcs  a  Taffection,  a 
rexpansion,  au  don  de  soi,  qu'il  soit  possible  d'imaginer.  "  11 
n'y  a  pas  de  mot,"  dit  Brand,  "qu'on  traine  dans  la  boue 
comme  le  mot  d'amour...  A-t-on  assez  d'un  sentier  abrupt, 
ctroit  et  glissant,  on  I'abandonne  pour  suivre  V amour  !  Pr6fcre- 
t-on  le  grand  chemin  du  p6ch6,  on  s'y  engage  par  amour, 
Voit-on  le  but,  mais  craint-on  le  combat,  on  compte  vaincre 
quand  mSme  far  Famour.  S'6gare-t-on,  tout  en  connaissant 
le  vrai,  on  a  un  point  de  rep^re  :  V amour.,.  Ah  !  vis-a-vis  de 
ce  peuple  lache  et  indolent,  le  meilletir  amour,  c'est  encore  In 
hainc  !"  On  pourrait  all6guer  peut-elre  qu'Ibsen  n'est  devenu 
maitre  de  ses  idees  et  de  sa  forme  qu'a  un  age  ou  I'amour 
passe  h  I'arrifere-plan  des  preoccupations  d'un  homme  digne  de 
ce  nom.  Cela  est  possible,  mais  je  ne  puis  pas  ne  pas  rap- 
procher  son  exemple  de  celui  de  George  Sand,  qui  jusqu'a  ses 
derniers  jours  ne  s'est  pas  lassce  dc  conter  des  histoires 
d  amour,  et  j'ai  le  droit  de  voir  dans  la  defiance  de  I'amour  sous 
toutes  ses  formes,  manifestee  par  Ibsen  dans  ses  ceuvres 
capitales,  I'un  des  traits  qui  le  separent  le  plus  radicalement  de 
celle  qui  a  si  bien  et  tant  aim^. 

Prenons  done  I'amour  envisage  comme  ph^nomfene  social 
et  la  question  du  mariage.  La-dessus  il  semblerait  qu'il  y  eut 
vraiment  concordance  entre  les  vues  des  deux  6crivains. 
Mais  la  encore,  il  faut  regarder  de  plus  pr^.  Contre  quoi,  en 
cffet,  George  Sand  s'6lfeve-t-elle  dans  ses  premiers  romans  et 
que  pr6tend-elle  obtenir  ?  EUe  I'^crit  elle-meme  a  Lamennais, 
a  propos  des  Lcttres  a  Marcic,  publi^es  dans  le  Monde  en  1837. 
"  J'ai  beau  chercher  le  remade  aux  injustices  sanglantes,  aux 
misferes  sans  fin,  aux  passions  souvent  sans  remMe  qui 
troublent  I'union  des  sexes,  je  n'y  vois  que  la  liberty  de  rompre 


IBSEN   ET  GEORGE  SAND.  485 

et  de  reformer  I'union  conjugale.  Je  ne  serais  pas  d'avis  qu'on 
dut  le  faire  a  la  16g6re  et  sans  des  raisons  moindres  que  celles 
dont  on  appuie  la  separation  legale  aujoiird'hui  en  vigueur. 
Bien  que,  pour  ma  part,  j'aimasse  mieux  passer  le  reste  de  ma 
vie  dans  un  cachot  que  de  me  remarier,  je  sais  ailleurs  des 
affections  si  durables,  si  imp6rieuses,  que  je  ne  vois  rien  dans 
I'ancienne  loi  civile  ou  religieuse  qui  puisse  y  mettre  un  frein 
solide.  Sans  compter  que  ces  affections  deviennent  plus  fortes 
et  plus  dignes  d'int6ret  a  mesure  que  I'intelligence  humaine 
s'eleve  et  s'6pure.  11  est  certain  que  dans  le  pass6,  elles  n'ont 
pu  etre  enchain6es,  et  Tordre  social  en  a  etc  trouble.  Le 
dteordre  n'a  rien  prouvecontre  la  loi,  tant  qu'il  a  6t6  provoque 
par  le  vice  et  la  corruption.  Mais  des  ames  fortes,  de  grands 
caractferes,  des  cceurs  pleins  de  foi  et  de  bont6  ont  6t6  domin6s 
par  des  passions  qui  semblaient  descendre  du  ciel  meme."* 
Ce  contre  quoi  George  Sand  se  rebelle  c'est  done  Tin- 
dissolubility  du  mariage,  c'est  la  d6pendance  morale  et 
la  minority  legale  auxquelles  Thomme  a  soumis  la  femme,  et 
ce  qu'elle  reclame  c'est  le  droit  pour  certaines  ames  privilegi6es 
que  la  passion  illumine  comme  d'un  Eclair  divin,  de  s'y  aban- 
donner  sans  remords. 

Quel  est  maintenant  Tavis  d'Ibsen  ?  Remarquez,  avant 
tout,  que  sur  le  problfeme  du  mariage,  comme,  d'ailleurs, 
sur  tous  les  problfemes  essentiels  de  son  theatre,  ses  id6es  ne 
concordent  gufere.  Ma  mission  est  de  poser  des  questions  et 
non  de  les  r6soudre,  a-t-il  dit  lui-meme.  Ibsen  est  un  esprit 
trop  critique  pour  soumettre  des  questions  complexes  a  unc 
solution  uniforme  :  malgr6  Tapparente  inflexibilit6  de  ses 
id6es,  il  est  moins  facile  d'y  mettre  de  Tunit^  que  dans 
celles,  a  premiere  vue  beaucoup  plus  flottantes,  de  George 
Sand.  Notez  ensuite  qu'il  y  a  dans  le  theatre  d' Ibsen 
deux  groupes  de  femmes,  auxquels  il  accorde  une  6gale 
sympathie.  D'une  part,  la  femme  congue  selon  Tid^al 
germanique,  la  femme  qui  est  vraiment  I'esclave  de  son  mari 
ou  de  son  amant,  qui  s'est  donn6e  a  lui  corps  et  ame  et  dont 
ce  don  constitue  le  bonheur,  qui  accepte  de  lui  tout  ce  qu'il 
lui  plait  de  lui  infliger,  qui,  comme  la  Marguerite  des  PrHen-^ 
dants  de  la  Cottronnc,  se  declare  prete  a  embrasser  la  main  de 

•  A  Lamcnnais,  28  fcvricr  1837. 


486  COSMOPOLIS. 

celui  qui  va  signer  la  condamnation  a  mort  cle  son  pfere  :  ce  sont 
la  Dagny  des  Harmacndcnc  paa  Hclgeland,  TAgnes  de  Brandf 
la  Solveig    de  Peer  Gynt,  Mme  Bernick,  Lona  et  Marthe  des 
Soil  t lens  de  la  SocUtVy  B6ate  de  Rosmersholm  et  la  femme  de 
VEnnemi  dn  peuple,       D'autre   part,  le  groupe  des  revolt^cs  : 
Schwanhilde  de  la  Comcklie  de  fainoiii\  Norah,  la  Dame  de  la 
Mer,  Mme  Alving,   Hedda  Gabler  et  Hilde,  parmi  lesquelles  il 
faut  distinguer  encore  les  malades  et  les  bien  portantes,  celles 
dont  les  griefs  semblent  s^rieux  et  legitimes,  et  celles  qui  sont 
emport^es  par  je  ne  sais  quelle  n6vrose.     Quel  est,  au  juste, 
le  sens,  et  quelle  est  la    port6e  de  la  Copn^die  de  Vamouif  de 
la  Maison  de  poiipie  et  des  Revcnants  /   Remarquez  bien  que 
la  premiere   piece    sociale   d' Ibsen    s'appelle   non  pas  la  Co- 
m6die  du  mariage,  mais  bien  la   Com^die    de    Tamour.      Si 
le  satirique  raille  les  enfantillages  des  fian^ailles,  et  s'il  s'elfeve 
contre  I'impudique  publicite  donnee  aux  sentiments  les  plus 
intimes  de   Tame   par  la  cer^monie  du   mariage,  et  contre  le 
retr6cissement  de  Tesprit  et  le  rapetissement  de  Tame  auxquels 
les   mesquines    preoccupations    de    manage  condamnent  les 
coeurs  les  plus  hauts,    n'oubliez  pas,  d'autre   part,  la  sc^ne 
ou    le    ridicule    pasteur    Strohmann,    qui    ne    fait   de   visile 
qu'accompagn6  de  ses  douze  rejetons,  defend  magnifiquement 
le  mariage  bafou6  par  Falk,  ni  surtout  la  derniere  scfene  entre 
Falket  Schwanhilde,  oil  celle-ci  s'arrache  des  bras  du  pofete,  qui 
n'ose  s'engager  a  Taimer  toujours,  pour  se  jeter  dans  ceux  du 
riche  et  grisonnant  Goldstadt.     S'il  y  a   une  morality  a  tirer 
de   cette   piece,  c'est   bien,  •  n'est-ce   pas,  que  I'amour,  I'amour 
eternel,  plus  fort  que  la  mort  et  que  la  vie,  qu'ont  chants  tous 
les  poetes,  est  impossible,  et  qu'il  vaut  mieux  se  rdsigner  au 
bonheur  mediocre  et  terre-a-terre  d'un  mariage  de  raison  que 
d'affronter  les  inevitables   deceptions  d'un    mariage  d'amour. 
Prenez  Norah  maintenant,  cette  Norah  qui  se  serait  d6ja  appelee 
Indiana  !  Quedemande  Norah  etdequoise  plain t-elle  ?  D'avoir 
etc  liec — de  son  plein  gr6,  rappelez-le  vous — a  un  mari  qui  I'a 
beaucoup  aimde  et  qu'elle  a  cru  beaucoup  aimer,  mais  qui  n'a 
pas  su  se  hausser,  au  moment  du  danger,  au  niveau  de  gen^rositc 
et  de  grandeur   morale  qu'elle  avait  revfi,  et  avec  qui  elle  a 
v6cu    sans    le    connaitre    et    sans    se    connaitre    elle-meme. 
Pourquoi  quitte-t-elle  ce  mari  et  ces  enfants  avec  lesquels  elle 


IBSEN   ET  GEORGE   SAND.  487 

a  si  ddlicieusement  jouc  au  commencement  de  la  piece  ?  Pour 
apprendre  a  se  connaitre,  pour  refaire  son  education  morale  et 
religieuse;  pour  distinguer  ses  veritables  devoirs  de  ceux  que 
r^ducation  lui  a  imposes,  pour  acqu6rir  une  philosophie  de  la 
vie.  Est-ce  la,  je  vous  le  demande,  ce  que  revent  les  heroines 
de  George  Sand  ?  Ce  qu'elles  cherchent,  elles,  c'est  Tamour, 
toujours  I'amour,  rien  que  Tamour.  Si  Indiana  quitte  le 
colonel  Delmare,  c'est  pour  se  pr6cipiter  dans  les*bras  de 
Raymon  de  Ramiere,  et  dfes  qu'elle  a  re9u  Tavjeu  de  Timmense 
el  discret  amour  que  lui  a  vou6,  depuis  son  enfance,  Ralph, 
elle  renonce  au  suicide  et  vit  avec  lui,  heureuse  et  satisfaite. 
Si  M.  de  Lanzac  inspire  une  invincible  repugnance  a  Valentine, 
c'est  qu'elle  s'est  embras6e  a  la  flamme  de  la  passion  de 
Benedict.  Si  L61ia  se  jette  dans  I'amour  divin,  c'est  que  les 
amours  humaines  lui  ont  menti,  c'est  que  son  premier  amant 
n'a  pas  su  appr^cier  la  grande  ame  qui  s'6tait  donn^e  a  lui,  et 
c'est  qu'elle  a  reconnu  que  I'esprit  de  St6nio  n'^tait  pas  a  la 
hauteur  de  son  g6nie.  Prenez  Mme  Alving  maintenant.  Celle- 
ci,  aprte  avoir  sacrifi6  a  I'imp^ratif  de  la  vieille  morale  les 
sourdes  rfivoltes  de  sa  jeunesse,  s'aper9oit  tout  a  coup  que  le 
sacrifice  a  6t6  inutile,  sent  aller  a  la  derive  tous  les  principes 
sur  lesquels  elle  s'6tait  appuy6e,  et  se  d^faire,  point  par  point, 
comme  une  piece  mal  cousue,  toute  la  trame  de  sa  vie  morale, 
et  se  declare  prete  a  donner  pour  maitresse  a  son  fils,  qui  veut 
gouter,  a  coupe  pleine,  la  joie  de  vivre,  sa  demi-sceur.  Est-ce 
la  une  de  ces  r6voltes  comme  George  Sand  aime  a  en 
representer  ?  En  aucune  fa9on.  C'est  d'une  revolte  toute 
logique,  toute  intellectuelle,  toute  morale  qu'il  s'agit  la  et 
nbn  de  r^voltes  sentimentales  et  passionnelles  comme  chez 
Indiana,  chez  Valentine  et  chez  toutes  leurs  sceurs.  Prenez 
enfin  la  Rebecca  de  Rosmersholm.  Rappelez-vous  comment 
elle  s'insinue  dans  le  calme  interieur  de  Rosmer,  comment 
elle  s'6prend  d'amour  pour  le  pasteur,  comment,  pour  satisfaire 
cet  amour,  elle  pousse  la  pauvre  Beate,  par  ses  perfides  in- 
sinuations, a  la  folie  et  au  suicide,  et  comment,  au  moment 
de  toucher  a  la  victoire,  elle  sent  sa  volonte  s'6vanouir,  son 
amour  devenir  renoncement,  bris^e  qu'elle  est  par  la  haute  et 
g^n^reuse  conception  de  vie  de  son  ami.  Est-ce  que  jamais 
heroine  de  George  Sand  eut  agi  ainsi  'i     Elle  serait  allde,  elle 


488  COSMOPOLIS. 

jusqu'au  bout  de  son  dessein,  elle  n'eut  jamais  renonce  a 
toucher  le  prix  de  sou  forfait  et  n'eut  consenti  au  suicide 
qu'apres  avoir  vecu  tous  les  enfers  de  la  passion.  Cast  qu'aussi 
bien  les  femmes  d' Ibsen  sont  toutes  des  intellectuelles,  des 
moralistes,  des  m^taphysiciennes,  et  non  pas  des  creatures  de 
chair  et  de  sang,  faites  pour  I'amour,  comme  les  femmes  de 
George  Sand.  Au  fond  Ibsen  n'aime  pas  la  femme  et  ne 
s'interesse  pas  vraiment  a  sa  destin6e  :  il  ne  s'occupe  du 
mariage  que  parce  qu'il  est  I'un  des  principaux  contrats 
sociaux,  que  parce  qu'il  est  Tun  des  cas  typiques  du  grand 
probleme  qui,  seui,  passionne  Ibsen,  du  probleme  de 
rindividualisme. 

Arrivons-en  done  au  rapport  de  I'homme  avec  les  autres 
hommes.  Ici  les  idees  d' Ibsen  se  font  plus  nettes,  plus 
categoriques  et  se  d^duisent,  trte  logiquement,  des  principes 
que  nous  avons  exposes  plus  haut.  Toute  soci6t^,  de  par  sun 
organisation  intime,  ne  pent  vivre  que  de  mensonge  et 
d'hypocrisie.  Dfes  que  I'homme  alifene  quoi  que  ce  soit  de  sa 
personnalit6,  des  qu'il  se  groupe  et  s'associe,  il  a  renonc6  a  sa 
principale,  a  sa  seule  prerogative  :  a  la  libre  disposition  de  lui- 
nieme.  Aussi  toutes  les  formes  de  la  soci6t6  sont-elles  6gale- 
ment  ruineuses.  Ibsen  attaque  successivement  lib^raux  et 
conservateurs,  regime  bourgeois  et  regime  de  prol6taires, 
aristocratic  et  surtout  democratic.  II  a  ccrit  d'abord  V Union 
de  In  Jcutiesse  qui  est  comme  le  Raba^ias  norvegien.  II  a  icrit 
ensuite  les  Souticns  dc  la  SocieU^  et  a  r6v6l6  I'hypocrisie  et  Ic 
mensonge  cjui  rcgnent  en  maitres  dans  la  haute  bourgeoisie.  II 
a  ccrit  enfin  Brand  et  VEnnemi  du  peuple,  ses  pieces  les  plus 
typiques,  celles  ou  il  semble  le  plus  vraiment  lui-meme.  II 
s'est  eieve  avec  le  plus  viril  courage  contres  les  flatteries 
que  les  democraties  prodiguent  au  peuple.  II  a  montr^ 
combien  absurde  est  la  theorie  suivant  laquelle  la  v6rite  doit 
surgir  du  sein  des  masses  ignorantes.  II  a  lanc6  ses  sar- 
casmes  les  plus  virulents  contre  ces  dogmes  de  la  souverainete 
populaire  et  du  suffrage  universel,  auxquels  George  Sand  a  cru 
d'une  foi  in^branlable.  II  a  affirm^  que  ce  sont  toujours  les 
minorites  et  jamais  les  majorit^s  qui  ont  raison,  et  la  demise, 
la  supreme  v6rit6  qu'ait  d^couverte  le  Dr  Stockmann,  c'est  que 
I'homme  vraiment  fort  c'est  I'homme  qui  est  seuh 


IBSEN   ET  GEORGE   SAND.  489 

Vce  soli !  avait  cri6  George  Sand  par  toutes  les  voix  de  ses 
h^ros  et  de  ses  heroines.  Gloria  soli !  s'6crie  Ibsen  par  la  voix 
de  Brandy  de  Stockmann,  par  sa  vie,  par  ses  lettres.  II  n'y  a 
qu'une  chose  qui  soil  inviolable,  inalienable,  respectable  ici- 
bas,  c'est  notre  Moi,  c'est  notre  individuality,  c'est  rhomme 
pos^  sur  lui-meme  et  se  suflisant  a  lui-meme.  Ce  Moi,  il  faut 
I'entourer  d'une  triple  palissade  pour  que  nul  intrus  ne  puisse 
y  p6n6trer  :  dangereuse  toute  amitit,  ruineuse  toute  associa- 
tion, pernicieux  tout  Parlement,  ridicule  toute  commission. 
'*  La  notion  la  plus  vivante  et  la  plus  religieuse  du  progrcs  de 
Tesprit  humain,  c'est,  pour  parler  la  langue  de  mon  temps,  hi 
notion  de  solidarity,"  a  6crit  George  Sand  au  seuil  de  VHistoirc 
dc  wa  Vic.  "Je  n'ai  jamais  eu  de  predilection  pour  la  soli- 
darit6,  6crit  de  son  cote  Ibsen  :  je  ne  Tai  consider6e  que 
comme  un  article  de  foi  traditionnel,  et  si  Ton  avait .  le 
courage  de  ndgliger  tout  a  fait  ce  sentiment,  on  serait  peut- 
etre  d61ivr6  du  fardeau  qui  ptee  le  plus  lourdement  sur  la 
personnalite." 

Culture  exclusive  du  Moi,  souci  farouche  et  jaloux  de  la 
personnalite,  individualisme  enfin,  nous  voila  ramenes  a  ce 
terme  qui  nous  a  poursuivi  durant  toute  cette  6tude.  Le 
moment  est  venu  de  le  d6finir.  J'appelle  socialistes,  dans  le 
sens  le  plus  large  du  mot,  les  theories  qui  soutiennent  que  le 
but  de  la  civilisation  vise  a  permettre  a  totis  les  membres  dc 
la  communaute  humaine  dc  se  dcveloppcr  d'une  fayon  nor- 
male,  fut-ce  au  detriment  du  developpenient  integral  de 
certaines  individualites  exceptionnelles.  J'appelle  individualiste 
la  theorie  qui  affirme  que  le  but  veritable  de  la  communaute 
est  de  permettre  a  certains  individus,  mieux  doues  que  leurs 
congenferes,  de  se  d^velopper  integralement,  fut-ce  au  prix  du 
bonheur  et  m6me  de  I'existence  de  I'humanite  moyenne.  D'une 
part  une  foret,  ou  Ton  ne  permettrait  que  la  pousse  d'arbres  de 
haute  futaie,  se  nourrissant  aux  depens  de  toutes  les  autres 
plantes,  et,  de  I'autre,  rien  que  des  arbustes  mediocres,  ayant 
une  part,  aussi  egale  que  possible,  de  sfeve.  Ces  definitions 
admises,  il  est  clair  que  George  Sand  est  comme  le  type 
de  I'ame  socialiste  et  que  Henrik  Ibsen  est  le  champion  de" 
rindividualisme  le  plus  intransigeant.  Pour  lui,  I'humanite  se 
compose  de  la  masse  aveugle  et  sourde,  capable  de  toutes  les 


490  COSMOPOLIS. 

Iachet6s,  pretc  a  toutes  les  compromissions,  de  la  masse  qui  a 
vers6  la  cigue  a  Socrate,  qui  a  crucifix  le  Christ,  qui  a  brul^ 
Jeanne  d'Arc,  et  de  quelques  rares  61us,  qui  ont  comme  une 
r6v6lation  des  v6rit6s  sup6rieures,  qui  r6sistent,  au  p6ril  de 
leur  vie,  aux  entrainements  de  la  foule,  qui,  de  toute  I'fenergie 
de  leur  bras,  tentent  de  sarcler  Thumanite,  qui  savent  d'avance 
qu'ils  seront  vaincus,  mais  qui,  malgr6  tout,  s'abandonnent  a 
Tirr^sistible  impulsion  dc  leur  instinct  d'apotre. 

Cependant  des  questions  se  posent  dont  Ibsen  lui-m&me  ne 
m^connait  pas  la  gravity  et  la  difficult^.  Comment  discerner 
rindividu  mediocre,  a  quel  signe  reconnaitre  le  Moi  royal  du 
Moi  esclave.  Ce  criterium,  Ibsen  avoue  qu'il  n'existe  pas. 
Peer  Gyiii  et  le  Canard  sauvage  sont  les  satires  les  plus  mor- 
dantes  de  Brand  et  de  YEnnemi  du  feuple.  Peer  Gynt  a 
entendu,  lui  aussi,  une  voix  qui  lui  a  predit  qu'il  serait 
empereur  ;  il  a,  lui  aussi,  cnliivi  uniquement  son  Moi  et  donnd 
libre  carrifere  a  tous  ses  instincts  et  a  toutes  ses  aspirations ; 
mais  cette  voix  a  6t6  mensongfere,  ce  Moi  n'a  6t6  qu'un  mise- 
rable reflet  et  il  a  6t6  si  peu  lui-meme,  qu'il  n'a  mdme  pas 
m6rite  I'honneur  d'un  chatiment  special,  et  que  son  ame  ira 
se  fondre  dans  d'autres  ames,  aussi  m6diocres  que  la  sienne. 
Gregor  Werle  est  atteint  de  la  meme  fifevre  aigue  d'honnfitete, 
du  meme  d61ire  de  v6rit6  a  tout  prix  que  Brand  et  le  Dr 
Stockmann  :  il  dprouve,  lui  aussi,  Timp^rieux  besoin  de  r6g6- 
n^rer  ceux  qui  vivent  autour  de  lui,  de  ne  leur  rien  celer  de 
leur  infamie  pour  cr^er  en  eux  la  noble  flamme  du  repentir, 
et  il  ne  r^ussit  qu'a  miner  un  bonheur  qui  6tait  fait,  sans 
doute,  de  souillures  et  de  bassesse,  mais  qui  n'en  6tait  pas 
moins  bonheur,  et  a  pr^cipiter  au  suicide  une  ame  ang^lique 
d'enfant. 

Ensuite  quelle  sera  la  loi  de  vie  de  ce  Moi,  de  cette  indivi- 
duality sup6rieure,  de  ce  sur-homme  ?  S'abandonnera-t-il  a 
tous  ses  instincts  ?  Osera-t-il  vivre  toute  la  vie,  avec  toutes 
ses  passions  et  toutes  ses  catastrophes  ?  Osera-t-il  gouter  a 
cette  joie  de  I'existence,  que  les  pr^jug^s  puritains  de  petite 
ville  ont  tu6e  dans  I'ame  du  capitaine  Alving  ou,  plutot,  trans- 
formde  en  d6bauche  crapuleuse  ?  Osera-t-il  6couter  son 
vouloir  inconscient  et  se  livrer  a  cette  Anergic  incoercible  qu'a 
sentie  palpiter  en  elle  R6becca  West,  qui  a  balay^  tous  ses 


IBSEN    ET  GEORGE   SAND.  49 1 

scrupules  et  qui  Ta  men6e,  comme  iin  torrent,  aux  plus 
abominables  crimes  ?  Ou  bien,  le  Moi  sup6rieur  de  Rebecca, 
est-ce  celui  qui  a  subi  la  contagion  de  la  philosophie  de 
Rosmer,  cette  conception  qui  ennoblit,  mais  qui  tue,  et  en  qui 
la  farouche  passion  sensuelle  s'est  transform^e  dans  le  grand 
amour,  dans  I'amour  qui  renonce  ?  Le  sur-homme  est-ce 
Brand,  I'incarnation  de  Timp^ratif  cat^gorique,  qui  sacrifie  au 
verdict  du  devoir  le  repos  de  Tame  de  sa  mfere,  la  vie  de  son 
fils,  la  raison  de  sa  femme  ? 

De  plus,  comment  le  Moi  sup^rieur  peut-il  s'6ployer,  com- 
ment le  sur-homme  peut-il  agir  et  quel  m6rite  a-t-il  d'agir 
noblement,  puisque,  comme  tous  ses  frdres  en  vie,  il  est 
soumis  a  I'in^luctable  n6cessit6,  puisque,  pour  lui  aussi,  vou- 
loir,  c'est  etre  oblig6  de  vouloir  ?  Ou  bien  Ibsen  croit-il  que 
I'individu  sup6rieur  6chappe  a  Timbrisable  r6seau  du  deter- 
minisme,  qu'il  rompt  la  chaine  ininterrompue  des  causes  et 
des  effets  et  qu'il  cr6e,  comme  Dieu,  des  commencements 
absolus  ? 

Enfin,  essayez  de  concevoir  une  soci6t6  compos6e,  d'une 
part,  de  ces  monades  sup6rieures,  et,  de  Tautre,  de  ces  milliers 
d'atomes,  sans  nom  et  sans  forme  originale,  gravitant  aulour 
des  premieres.  Abolir  tous  les  liens  sociaux,  briser  toutes  les 
barriferes  61ev6es  par  la  civilisation  contre  la  brutality  originelle 
des  instincts,  laisser  vivre  les  hommes  sans  lois,  sans  religion, 
sans  frein  d'aucune  sorte,  c'est  une  ceuvre  de  demolition 
qu'ont  rev6e  bien  des  esprits  libres.  Mais  apres  ?  L'anar- 
chisme  aristocratique — c'est  la  formule  propre  de  I'ideal  social 
d' Ibsen — ne  mfene-t-il  pas  tout  droit  aux  pires  tyrannies  et  ne 
ferait-il  pas  revenir  le  monde  a  la  barbaric  primitive  ? 

Je  pose  ces  questions.  Je  n'ai  pas  la  pretention  de  les 
r6soudre.  Dites  que  les  id6es  d' Ibsen  sont  pleines  de  contra- 
dictions, mais  n'oubliez  pas  que  c'est  a  un  dramatiste  que  vous 
avez  a  faire,  dont  la  mission  est  de  cr^er  des  ames  et  de  peindre 
des  conflits  et  non  de  r^soudre  des  problfemes  politiques  et 
sociaux.  Dites  encore  que  la  conception  de  vie  d' Ibsen  est 
6troite,  qu'elle  est  dure,  et  que  cet  6gotisme  radical  est  le  plus 
sterile  de  tous  les  id6als,  mais  songez  de  quelle  utility  peut 


492  COSMOPOLIS. 

etre    un    pareil    ferment   a   une   epoque   qui    ne    p^che    pas 
pricis^ment  par  une  complaisance  Irop  prononc^e  pour  les 
aristocraties  et  par  un  mepris  trop  superbe  des  pretentions  de 
ta  foule.     Dites«enfin  que  Tid^al  de  vie  de  George  Sand  vous 
parait  plus  large,  plus  humain,  plus  proche  de  nous,  et  je  le 
comprends,  mais  accordez-moi — ce  qui  est  le  but  de  cet  article — 
qu'entre  cet  id6al  et  celui  d'Ibsen,  il  n'y  a  rien  de  commun. 
Pour  nous,  d'ailleurs,  notre  mission  n'est  pas  de  classer,  mais 
uuiquemcnt    de    faiic    comprendrc.      Sans    doutc,    j'admirc. 
j'admire   passinnnemenl,   le   i^rand    chenc  de   nos   forels  de 
France,  qui  s'appuie  fraternellement  sur  ses  grands  freres,  qui 
laisse  filtrer,  a  travers  son  feuillage  dentele,  la  chaude  lumi^re 
du    soleil,   qui   abrite,   dans  ses   branches   frisson  nan  tes,  des 
peuples  d'oiseaux  chanteurs.     Mais  je  n'admire  pas  moins  le 
sapin  du  Nord,  qui  dresse,  sur  le  roc  solitaire,  sa  silhouette 
hautaine,  et  qui,  seul  debout  parmi  les  victimes  de  I'hiver,  ose 
braver  la  tempete  et  narguer  la  rafale. 

Victor  Basch. 


kKVUE   DtJ    MOIS. 


Xous  voici  arrives  a  la  saison  oii,  chaque  annee,  les  yeux  de 
I'Europe  se  tournent  vers  TAngieterre  dont  le  Parlement  est 
sur  le  point  de  reprendre  ses  travaux.  La  p6riode  pr61imiiiaire 
des  discours  extra-parlementaires,  ouverte  par  le  discours 
traditionnel  prononc6  par  le  Premier  Ministre  le  9  novembre, 
au  banquet  d'installation  du  lord-maire,  est  a  la  veille  de  se 
terminer  et  elle  a  servi,  comme  toujours,  a  indiqiier  d'une 
fa<;oii  assez  precise  quel  sera  le  prognimme  l^gislatif  du 
gouvernement  pendant  Tann^e  courante,  en  meme  temps  que 
I'attitude  probable  de  Topposition.  Pendant  cette  campagne 
oil  les  chefs  des  deux  partis  rivalisent  d'^loquence  et  encore 
plus  d'ironie,  oii  ils  se  lancent  des  d6fis  et  s'apostrophent 
avant  le  combat  a  la  fayon  des  h^ros  d'Homfere,  les 
lieutenants  et  les  simples  soldats  fourbissent  leurs  amies 
avant  d'entrer  dans  I'arene  de  Westminster  ;  ils  reyoivent  le 
mot  d'ordre  qu'il  transmettent  ensuite  a  ceux  qui,  dans  les 
circonscriptions  61ectorales,  sont  charges  d'influencer  Topinion 
r6gionale  par  le  moyen  des  journaux  de  province  et  aussi 
par  le  moyen  des  associations  et  clubs  politiques.  C'est  ainsi 
que  les  deux  partis,  des  Touverture  de  la  session,  savent 
Tjxactement  a  quoi  s'en  tenir,  et  que  Topposition,  en  particulier, 
est  d'avance  inform6e  des  points  sur  lesquels  il  lui  faut  r6- 
sister  au  gouvernement  et  de  ceux  sur  lesquels  il  est  de  son 
devoir  de  le  seconder.  II  en  r6sulte  que,  sauf  dans  des  cas 
fort  extraordinaires,  il  y  a  peu  de  surprises  dans  la  politique 
int^rieure  anglaise. 

M.  de  Pressens^,  Mgerement  indispose,  n'ayant  pu  nous  envoycr  son  article 
politique,  nous  avons  du,  au  dernier  moment,  demander  a  un  de  nos  collatx>rateurs 
de  vouloir  bien  se  charger  de  faire,  a  sa  place,  la  Revue  du  Mois. — Note  de  la 
Redactiox. 

VOL.  IX.— so.  XXVI.  12 


494  CO^MdPOLlft. 

Cettc  anniie,  la  situation  politique  dc  TAngletcrre  est  parti- 
culierement  interessante  au  double  point  de  vue  int6rieur  et 
cxt6rieur.  Apres  une  annncie  pendant  laquelle  les  deux  partis 
ont  consenti  une  treve  tacite,  afin  de  ne  troubler  par  aucunc 
aigreur,  par  aucune  manifestation  d'esprit  de  parti  trop 
prononcc  la  celebration  du  soixantifeme  anniversaire  de 
ravcnement  de  la  reine  Victoria,  la  politique  reprend  ses 
droits  ;  Ics  liberaux  se  preparent  a  I'attaque  et  les  conservateurs 
a  defendre  et  a  maintenir  leur  position  qui,  si  forte  qu'elle 
puisse  etrc,  offrc  cependant  des  points  trte  vulnfirables.  Mais 
ce  qui  rend  assez  sure  pour  longtemps  encore  la  position  du 
gouvernement  de  Lord  Salisbury,  c'est,  outre  sa  majoritc 
immense  dc  140  voix  a  peu  pres,  le  d6sarroi  dans  lequel  est 
le  parti  liberal  depuis  la  retraitc  de  Lord  Roscbery.  Sans  chef 
reconnu  ct  autoris'^,  sans  politique  nettement  d^tinie,  les 
liberaux  n'ont  aucun  moyen  d'action  efificace  ;  ils  sont  uii 
troupeau  et  non  une  armee.  Ils  sont  actuellement  dans  un 
tel  etat  de  desorganisation  que,  si  par  quelque  accident  im- 
prevu  une  Section  gen^rale  devenait  n6cessaire,  ils  auraient 
la  plus  grande  peine  du  monde  a  formuler  un  programme 
ct  une  politique  de  nature  a  rallicr  leur  parti  tout  entier.  Ce 
n'cst  pas  parce  qu'ils  ont  eu,  a  quclques  Elections  partielles,  des 
succes  plus  ou  moins  grands  qu'ils  peuvent  esp6rer  battre  les 
masses  solides  et  bien  disciplinees  des  conservateurs  et  des 
liberaux  unionistes ;  ces  succes  sont  dus  a  des  circonstances 
particulieres  a  chacune  des  circonscriptions  011  ils  ont  etc 
rcmportes  et  non  a  Tinfluence,  sur  les  electeurs,  d'un  chef  et 
d'une  politique  accept^s  par  tous.  Le  premier,  le  seul  devoir 
du  parti  liberal,  a  Theure  actuelle,  c'est  de  se  reorganiser,  de 
se  reformer,  de  se  donner  un  chef.  Selon  toutes  les  probabi- 
lit6s,  il  s'^coulera  encore  trois  ann6es  avant  que  se  livre  une 
grande  bataille  dlectoralc  ;  mais  trois  ans  ce  n'est  gufere  quand 
il  faut  reconstituer  un  parti,  lui  donner  un  chef,  un  £tat-major 
et  une  politique. 

Le  parti  liberal  ne  pourra  done,  pendant  la  session  qui  va 
s'ouvrir,  opposer  que  des  forces  6parses  a  la  majority  compacte 
des  conservateurs  et  des  unionistes;  cependant  il  a,  sur  ceux-ci, 
un  certain  avantage  en  ce  sens  qu'il  possfede  comme  leader 
a  la  chambre  des  Communes,  un  tacticien  parlementaire  de 


RteVUE  DtJ  MOtS.  495 

premier  ordre  dans  Sir  William  Harcourt,  qui  connait 
admirablement  la  procedure  si  compliqu6e,  si  subtile  du  Parle- 
ment  britannique.  Sous  ce  rapport,  il  est  bien  sup6rieur  a  M. 
Balfour,  le  leader  conservateur,  dont  I'esprit  un  peut  spcculalif 
est  peu  fait  pour  les  roueries  parlementaires  qu'il  d6daigne  et 
repousse  comme  au-dessous  de  lui. 

On  sait  maintenant,  et  c'est  M.  Balfour  lui-meme  qui  a 
pris  soin  de  renseigner  son  pays,  quel  sera,  en  1898,  le 
programme  16gislatif  du  gouvernement.  Apres  une  session 
consacr6e  principalement  a  Tinstruction  primaire  et  a  hi 
responsabilit6  des  patrons  et  a  T^laboration  de  deux  lois  sur 
ces  sujets  importants  mais  d'un  ordre  particulier,  TAngleterre 
aura  une  session  d'un  int6ret  politique  plus  general. 
L'lrlande,  rel6gu6e  au  second  plan  pendant  quelques  sessions, 
sera  de  nouveau  Tobjet  de  Tattcntion  des  legislateurs.  Fidfeles 
a  leur  programme,  les  conservateurs  et  les  unionistes,  aussi 

m 

fermement  opposes  que  jamais  a  Tautononiie,  au  liofHc  ntlc, 
vont  doter  I'lle-soeur  d'un  regime  de  gouvernement  local 
destin6  a  la  mettre,  en  ce  qui  concerne  tout  au  nioins  la 
gestion  de  ses  affaires  int^rieures,  sur  le  m6me  pied  que 
I'Angleterre  et  que  I'Ecosse.  En  deux  mots,  il  s'agit  de 
donner  a  la  masse  des  Irlandais  le  droit  que  possedent 
depuis  si  longtemps  les  Anglais  et  les  Ecossais  de  lixer,  de 
percevoir  et  d'appliquer  aux  besoins  de  leur  pays,  les  impols 
locaux  ;  de  substituer  a  un  regime  d'exception,  de  classe  menie, 
un  regime  populaire.  Et  pour  cela,  il  faudra,  de  la  part  des 
contribuables  anglais,  un  nouveau  sacrifice  d'argent,  quelque 
chose  comme  vingt  millions  de  francs  par  an.  Pour  rentier 
dans  I'ordre  commun,  pour  r6tablir  en  Irlande  un  regime  a 
peu  pres  normal,  il  faudra  recourir  a  une  subvention  de 
I'Angleterre,  tant  il  est  dit  que  jamais  l'lrlande  ne  pourra  etre 
complfetement  assimil^e  aux  deux  aiitres  royaumes  et  que, 
quand  ce  n'est  pas  la  domination  anglaise,  c'est  la  nature 
mSme  du  pays,  ses  circonstances  particuliercs  qui  la  font 
toujours  retomber  sous  un  regime  d'excrotion.  C'est  comme 
une  fatality.  II  va  sans  dire  que  la  discussion  de  ce  nou- 
veau systfeme  de  gouvernement  local  irlandais  demandera 
de  nomlMreuses  s&mces  et  donnera  lieu  a  de  longues  et  vives 
discussions.      Mais  il  est  permis  d'esp^rer  que  la  loi  nouvelle 


494  CO^m6poliS. 

Cettc  .'innce,  la  situation  politique  dc  rAngletcrre  est  parti- 
culi^rement  intercssante  au  double  point  de  vue  int6rieur  et 
extirieur.  Apres  une  annnee  pendant  laquelle  les  deux  partis 
ont  consenti  une  treve  tacite,  afin  de  ne  troublcr  par  aucunc 
aigreur,  par  aucune  manifestation  d'esprit  de  parti  trop 
prononcc  la  calibration  du  soixantifeme  anniversaire  dc 
Tavcnement  de  la  reine  V^ictoria,  la  politique  reprend  ses 
droits  ;  Ics  lib^raux  se  preparenl  a  I'attaque  et  les  conservateurs 
a  dcfendre  et  a  maintenir  leur  position  qui,  si  forte  qu'ellc 
puisse  etrc,  offrc  cependant  des  points  trfe  vuln6rables.  Mais 
ce  qui  rend  assez  sure  pour  longtemps  encore  la  position  du 
gouvernenient  dc  Lord  Salisbury,  c'est,  outre  sa  majorite 
immense  dc  140  voix  a  peu  prcs,  le  d6sarroi  dans  lequel  est 
le  parti  liberal  depuis  la  retraitc  de  Lord  Roscbery.  Sans  chef 
reconnu  ct  autoris'',  sans  politique  nettemcnt  d^Hnie,  les 
lib6raux  n'ont  aucun  moyen  d'action  efficace  ;  ils  sont  un 
troupeau  et  non  une  armd-e.  lis  sont  actuellemcnt  dans  un 
tel  ctat  dc  desorganisation  que,  si  par  quelque  accident  im- 
prevu  une  election  gen6rale  devenait  ndccssaire,  ils  auraient 
la  plus  grande  |>eine  du  monde  a  formuler  un  programme 
ct  une  politique  de  nature  a  rallicr  leur  parti  tout  entier.  Ce 
n'cst  pas  parce  qu'ils  ont  eu,  a  quclques  elections  partielles,  des 
succes  plus  ou  moins  grands  qu'ils  peuvent  esp6rer  battre  les 
masses  solides  et  bien  disciplinees  des  conservateurs  et  des 
libcraux  unionistes ;  ces  succes  sont  dus  a  des  circonstances 
particulieres  a  chacune  des  circonscriptions  ou  ils  ont  6te 
rcmportes  et  non  a  Tinfluence,  sur  les  electeurs,  d'un  chef  ct 
d'une  politique  acceptcs  par  tons.  Le  premier,  le  seul  devoir 
du  parti  liberal,  a  I'heure  actuelle,  c'est  de  sc  r6organiser,  de 
se  reformer,  de  se  donner  un  chef.  Selon  toutes  les  probabi- 
lit^s,  il  s'^coulera  encore  trois  ann6es  avant  que  se  livre  une 
grande  bataille  electorale  ;  mais  trois  ans  ce  n'est  gufere  quand 
il  faut  reconstituer  un  parti,  lui  donner  un  chef,  un  ^tat-major 
et  une  politique. 

Le  parti  liberal  ne  pourra  done,  pendant  la  session  qui  va 
s  ouvrir,  opposer  que  des  forces  ^parses  a  la  majority  compacte 
des  conservateurs  et  des  unionistes;  cependant  il  a,  sur  ceux-ci, 
un  certain  avantage  en  ce  sens  qu'il  possfede  comme  leader 
a  la  chambre  des  Communes,  un  tacticien  parlementaire  de 


RteVUE  DtJ  MOtS.  495 

premier  ordre  dans  Sir  William  Harcourt,  qui  connait 
admirablement  la  procedure  si  compliqu6e,  si  subtile  du  Parle- 
ment  britannique.  Sous  ce  rapport,  il  est  bien  sup6rieur  a  M. 
Balfour,  le  leader  conservateur,  dont  I'esprit  un  peut  speculatif 
est  peu  fait  pour  les  roueries  parlementaires  qu'il  dedaigne  et 
repousse  comme  au-dessous  de  lui. 

On  sait  maiiitenant,  et  c'est  M.  Balfour  lui-meme  qui  a 
pris  soin  de  renseigner  son  pays,  quel  sera,  en  1898,  Ic 
programme  l^gislatif  du  gouvernement.  Aprte  une  session 
consacr6e  principalement  a  Tinstruction  primaire  et  a  hi 
responsabilit6  des  patrons  et  a  T^laboration  de  deux  lois  sur 
ces  sujets  importants  mais  d'un  ordre  particulier,  I'Angleterre 
aura  une  session  d'un  int6ret  politique  plus  general. 
L'lrlande,  rel6gu6e  au  second  plan  pendant  quelques  sessions, 
sera  de  nouveau  Tobjet  de  Tattcntion  des  16gislateurs.  Fiddles 
a  leur  programme,  les  conservateurs  et  les  unionistes,  aussi 
fermement  opposes  que  jamais  a  Tautonomie,  au  liowc  rule, 
vont  doter  I'ile-soeur  d'un  regime  de  gouvernement  local 
destin6  a  la  mettre,  en  ce  qui  concerne  tout  au  moins  la 
gestion  de  ses  aifaires  int6rieures,  sur  le  mfeme  pied  que 
I'Angleterre  et  que  I'Ecosse.  En  deux  mots,  il  s'agit  de 
donner  a  la  masse  des  Irlandais  le  droit  que  possedent 
depuis  si  longtemps  les  Anglais  et  les  Ecossais  de  I'lxer,  de 
percevoir  et  d'appliquer  aux  besoins  de  leur  pays,  les  impols 
locaux  ;  de  substituer  a  un  regime  d'exception,  de  classe  menie, 
un  regime  populaire.  Et  pour  cela,  il  faudra,  de  la  part  des 
contribuables  anglais,  un  nouveau  sacrifice  d'argent,  quelque 
chose  comme  vingt  millions  de  francs  par  an.  Pour  rentrer 
dans  I'ordre  commun,  pour  r6tablir  en  Irlande  un  r6ginie  a 
peu  pres  normal,  il  faudra  recourir  a  une  subvention  de 
I'Angleterre,  tant  il  est  dit  que  jamais  1' Irlande  ne  pourra  etre 
complfetement  assimil^e  aux  deux  autres  royaumes  et  que, 
quand  ce  n'est  pas  la  domination  anglaise,  c'est  la  nature 
meme  du  pays,  ses  circonstances  particulieres  qui  la  font 
toujours  retomber  sous  un  regime  d'excrotion.  C'est  comme 
une  fatality.  II  va  sans  dire  que  la  discussion  de  ce  nou- 
veau systfeme  de  gouvernement  local  irlandais  demandera 
de  nomlMreuses  s&mces  et  donnera  lieu  a  de  longues  et  vives 
discussions.      Mais  il  est  permis  d'esp^rer  que  la  loi  nouvelle 


49^  COSMOPOLIS. 

sera  de  nature  a  donner  satisfaction  aux  Irlandais  les  plus 
senses  et,  cc  qui  justitie  cet  espoir,  c'est  que  les  divers 
groupes  dont  se  compose  le  parti  parlemcntaire  irlandais  ont 
r6s()lu  de  s'entendre  pour  la  discussion  de  cette  mesure  si 
importante  pour  leur  pays. 

Deux  autrcs  questions  d'interet  imperial  occuperont  encore 
le  parlement  britanniquc  :  ce  sont  Taugmentation  de  I'lu^mee 
anglaise  et  la  reorganisation  du  ministere  de  la  guerre  et  la 
politique  indienne. 

L'accroissement    si    considerable   de   1' Empire   britannique 

depuis    un  quart  de  siecle  et  notaminent  depuis  douze  ans, 

pendant    lesquels  son  domaine  colonial  s'est   augments  d'un 

tiers,   comnie   Ta  reconnu  M.  Chamberlain    a    Liverpool,   la 

n6cessite  de  d6fendre  ses  possessions  r^pandues  sur  tous  les 

points  du  globe,  ont  impost  a  Tarmee  anglaise  une  tache  qui 

est  actuellement,  meme  en  temps   normal,  presque  au-dessus 

de  ses  forces  ;  dans  un  moment  de  crise,  I'armee  anglaise,  cela 

est  incontestable,  serait  insuffis:mte.       Sir  Charles  Dilke,   M. 

Arnold-Forster  ct  biend'autres  encore  ont  vu  depuis  longtemps 

le  danger  et  Tout  signale  a  leurs  compatriotes.     II  leur  a  fallu 

bien  des  annees  et  bien  des  efforts  pour  triompher  et  de  la 

force  d'inertie  du  ministere  de  la  guerre  et   de  rindiflf6rence 

de  leurs  concitoyens.     lis  y  sont  cependant  parvenus  et,  sous 

la  pression  de  I'opinion,  eclair6e  par  eux  et  par  les  6crivains 

militaires    sur     T^tat     facheux    de    Tarm^e     britannique,  le 

gouvernement   s'est   decide    a    agir.       II    va    proposer    aux 

Chambres,    des   la  rentr^e    du    Parlement,   un   ensemble  de 

mesures  destinies  a  augmenter  les  forces  militaires  imp^riales 

et    h    r6organiser  Tadministration      dont      elle      dependent. 

L'augmentation  sera,  clit-on,  de  quinze  mille  homines,  ce  qui 

(iquivaut  presque  a  un  dixieme  de  I'armee  r^gulifere  actuelle. 

La  difficulte,  dans  un  pays  ou  Tarm^e  est  exclusivement  com- 

pos6e  de  volontaires,  est  de  trouver  ces  quinze  mille  recrues 

additionnelles  sans  recourir  a  la  conscription  que    beaucoup 

de  militaires  anglais  voudraient  voir  adopter  dans  leur  pays, 

mais  qui  est  si  contraire  aux  id^es  et  aux  moeurs  anglaises,  que 

Lord  Wolseley  lui-meme  la  considere    comme  impraticable. 

L'arm6e  ne  peut  offrir,  cela  n'a  pas  besoin  d'etre  d^montr^, 

les  mdmes  avantages  que  les  carri^res  civiles.    II  sera  done  trte 


KEVUE   DU   MOIS.  497 

int6ressant  de  voir  par  quel  systfeme  de  haute  pave,  d'avance- 
ment,  d'emplois  civils    assures    aux    militaires  a  I'expiration 
de  leur  p6node  de  service,  le  gouvernement  anglais  parviendra 
a  augmenter  I'effectif  de  son   arm6e,      Actuellement,  et   le 
soldat  anglais  est  mieux  pay6  et  mieux  vetu  que  la  plupart  des 
soldats  des  autres  pays  d'Europe,   T^tat  du  commerce  et  de 
rindustrie  r^agit   directement  sur  le  recrutement ;  quand  les 
affaires  vont  bien,  le  nombre  des  recrues  diminue  sensible- 
ment ;  il  augmente   aussitot  que   la  prosp6rit6  du    pays  est 
atteinte.     Le  problfeme  a  r6soudre  est  done  des  plus  difficiles. 
Mais  ce  n'est  ni  sur  la  question  du-  gouvernement  local  irlan- 
dais,  ni  sur  celle  de  Taugmentation  de  Tarm^e  que  I'opposition 
se   montrera  hostile  au  ministfere.   Elle   r6servera  toutes  ses 
attaques  pour  la  discussion   de  la  politique   poursuivie  aux 
Indes  depuis  de  longues  anndes,  cette  politique  inaugur6e  par 
Lord  Beaconsfield  et  continuce  par  Lord  Salisbury  :    politique 
d'annexion  et  de  conquete,  inspir6e  par  la  crainte  de  la  Russie 
et  par  la  n6cessit6  de  pourvoir  I'lnde  d'une  "  frontiere  scienti- 
fique."     I-vC  mot  est  tomb6  en  d6su6tude,  mais  le  systdme  est 
reste.    A   peine  a-t-on   trouv6   une   "frontifere    scientifique/' 
qu'on  en  d6couvre  une  autre  meilleure  un  peu  plus  a  I'ouest  et 
aprfes  celle-ci,  une  autre,  puis  une  autre  encore,  et  ainsi  de 
suite.    C'est  de  cette  fa^on  que,  depuis  trente  ans,  les  limites 
nord-ouest  de  I'Empire  des    Indes   ont  6t6   recul6es  jusqu'a 
THindou  Kouch  et  que  Ton  a  fait  entrer,  tantot  par  des  pro- 
messes,  tantot  par  la  violence,  dans  I'orbite  britannique,  toutes 
les  peuplades  qui  habitent  les  regions  situ6es  entre  Cashmire, 
le    Punjaub  et   le   Scinde  et   I'Afghanistan  et    la  Perse.     I^e 
dernier,   ou  du  moins  le  plus  recent   chapitre    de  cette    his- 
toire  de  la  conquete  de  TAsie  centrale  par  I'Angleterre  a  et6 
la  guerre  des  Afridis,  qui  est  suspendue  mais  non  termin6e,  et 
qui  recommencera  certainement  a  la  premiere  occasion.     La 
situation   6conomique  de   Tlnde,   eprouv6e   par   la  peste,   la 
famine  et  la  guerre,  r6clamera  aussi  I'attention  du  Parlement 
qui  sera  sans  doute  appel6  a  voter  des  fonds  pour  venir  en  aide 
aux  contribuables  indiens,  dont  le  fardeau  est  devenu  beaucoup 
trop  lourd. 

Cette  politique  indienne,  I'opposition  se  dispose  a  Tattaquer 
avec  la  dernidre  vigueur,  en  soutenant  que,  aprfes  les  engage- 


49^  C06M0P0LIS. 

ments  pris  a  la  suite  de  Texp^dition  de  Tchitral,  le  gouverne- 
ment  britannique  a  violt  sa  parole  en  tentant  d'annexer  certai- 
nes  regions  de  la  valine  de  T Indus  ;  que  la  ix)litique  financifere 
adoptde  par  le  gouvernement  indien  ruine  I'lnde,  et  en  de- 
mandant une  r6forme  politique,  militaire  et  fiscale  de  Tadrai- 
nistration  de  T  Empire  des  Indes. 

Si  I'Angleterre  est  pr6occup6e  de  ce  qui  se  passe  chez  elle, 
elle  Test  bien  davantage  de  ce  qui  se  passe  au-dehors.     EUe  a 
tant  d'affaires  sur  les  bras  que  Ton  se  demande  avec  quelque 
raison  si  elle  ne  d^passe  pas  tant  soit  peu  les  bornes  de  la 
prudence.     En  Europe,  en  Af  rique,  en  Asie,  en  Am^rique,  elle 
est  sinon  en  querelle,  du  moins  en  discussion  avec  de  nombreux 
pays.  C'est  le  concert  europ6en,  dont  elle  tend  a  se  s6parer,  c'est 
I'Egypte,  c'est  le  Soudan,  c'est  le  Niger,  c'est  le  Transvaal,  c'est 
rOuganda,  c'est  la  Chine,  c'est  les  p^cheries  de  Behring,  c'est 
le  Venezuela  qui,  tour  a  tour,  et  souvent  simultan^ment,  r6cla- 
ment  I'attention  de  Lord  Salisbury.     Qui  trop  embrasse  mal 
6treint.     Le  gouvernement  anglais  n'a-t-il  pas  trop  de  fers  au 
feu?  Pour  parler  de  TEurope,  nous  avons  eu,  derniferement,  un 
discours  remarquable  de  M.  Chamberlain  qui,  en  faisant  allu- 
sion a  la  Crfete,  a  la  Grfece  et  au  concert  europ6en,  a  declare  que 
la  situation  actuelle  est  intolerable  et  que  le  moment  peut  venir 
ou   I'Angleterre  jugera  que  son  devoir  est  d'agir   isol^ment. 
Une  dizaine  de  jours  auparavant,  M.  Balfour  s'^tait  aussi  ex- 
prim6  en  termes  assez  d^aigneux  sur  le  compte  du  concert 
europ6en,  d'ou  Ton  peut  conclure  que  le  gouvernement  britan- 
nique cherche  une  fois  de  plus,  a  brouiller  les  cartes  de  I'Eu- 
rope.     II  est  trfes  vrai  que  le  concert  europ6en  n'a  r6gl6  ni  la 
question  d'Arm6nie,  ni  celle  de  Crdte  ;  mais  il  a  r^ussi  a  em- 
p6cher  les  plus  redoutables  complications  en  Europe  et,  en  fin 
de  compte,  c'est  la  un  r^ultat  qui  n'est  pas  mince,  bien  que 
les  hommes  d'Etat  anglais,  gens  pourtant  si  pacifiques  d'ordi- 
naire,  aient  I'air  d'en  faire  peu  de  cas.    M.  Chamberlain  croit-il 
que  I'Angleterre,  en  se  s6parant  du  concert  europ6en,  trouve  a 
elle  seule  une  solution  immediate  du  probl^me  arm^nien  et  de 
la  question  cr6toise  ?  Ce  serait  lui  faire  injure  que  de  lui  attri- 
buer  cette  pens6e.     Mais  alors  que  gagnerait  TAngleterre  a 
provoquer  des  difRcult^s,  une  crise  meme  que  toutes  les  puis- 
s?\nces  c|e  I'Europe  ont  mis  tous  leurs  efforts  a  conjurer  ?  Car 


REVUE  DU   MOIS.  499 

il  est  inutile  de  le  nier  ;  le  jour  ou  TAngleterre  agira  isol6ment 
dans  la  question  d'Orient,  elle  amfenera  aussitot  en  Europe 
une  situation  des  plus  dangereuses  qui  conduira  inevitable- 
ment  a  des  complications  dont  nul  ne  pent  pr6voir  les  conse- 
quences. A  cela  les  Anglais  r^pondent  que  cela  est  possible  ; 
mais  qu'il  est  quelque  chose  de  bien  plus  probable  encore,  c'est 
que  le  jour  ou  la  Grande-Bretagne  se  s^parera  du  concert,  elle 
sera  suivie  par  une  ou  deux  puissances  tellement  fortes  que,  en 
presence  de  cette  nouvelle  combinaison,  les  autres  gouverne- 
ments  s'inclineront.  C'est  la,  pour  tous  les  observateurs,  une 
illusion  dangereuse.  Les  groupements  des  puissances  diverses 
du  continent  sont  trop  solidement  etablis  pour  que  raction 
isolee  de  TAngleterre  les  detruise  et,  si  elle  les  d^truisait,  ce 
serait  au  risque  de  produire  en  Europe  un  veritable  cataclysme. 
Pendant  que  les  ministres  anglais  parlent  du  concert  euro- 
p6en,  de  la  Chine  et  de  bien  d'autres  choses  encore,  il  en  est 
dont  ils  ne  disent  pas  un  mot  et  qui  sont  cependant  dans  leur 
pens6e,  car  ils  s'en  occupent  activement.  La  reconquete  du 
Soudan  est  une  de  ces  choses.  Aucun  ministre  anglais  n'en 
parle,  mais  le  ministre  de  la  guerre  envoie  un  gtn^ral  anglais, 
le  g6n6ral  Gatacre,  et  des  troupes  anglaises  pour  coop6rer  avec 
Sir  Herbert  Kitchener  a  la  marche  en  avant  que  celui-ci  a 
pr6par6e  de  longue  date  et  qu'il  veut  entreprendre  le  plus  t6t 
possible.  Jamais,  depuis  quinze  ans,  TAngleterre  n'a  eu  en 
Egypte  une  armte  aussi  nombreuse  que  celle  qu'elle  y  a  main- 
tenant  ;  il  est  difficile  de  croire  qu'elle  ait  besoin  d'autant  de 
troupes  pour  repousser  une  pr6tendue  attaque  des  derviches, 
de  ces  derviches  que  Ton  signale  invariablement  quand  il  s'agit 
de  faire  un  nouveau  pas  vers  Khartoum  et  qui,  depuis  tant 
d'annces  qu'ils  sont  en  lutte  plus  ou  moins  continue  avec  les 
troupes  anglo-6gyptiennes,  poussent  la  na'ivet6  ou  la  complai- 
sance jusqu'a  se  montrer  toujours  au  moment  le  plus  favorable 
pour  que  celles-ci  puissent  profiter  de  la  crue  du  Nil  pour 
p6n6trer  plus  avant  dans  le  ddsert.  Ou  les  derviches  sont  les 
gens  les  plus  maladroits  du  monde,  ou  les  Anglo-6gyptiens 
sont  remarquablement  bien  servis  par  le  hasard.  A  la  verite, 
il  n'y  a  pas  beaucoup  de  hasard  ni  de  derviches  dans  tout 
cela.  Voila  des  mois  que  Sir  Herbert  Kitchener  d'un  c6t6  ct 
\q  ministere  de  la  guerre  anglais  de  I'autre   prcparent  cett^> 


500  COSMOPOLIS. 

expedition  et  le  Khalifa  sait  si  bien  a  quoi  s'en  tenir  qu'il  est 
occup6  a  fortifier  Omdurman  pour  y  r^sister  aux  Anglais  dont 
ses  espions  du  Caire  lui  ont  signals  les  intentions.  Quant  aux 
derviches,  les  faibles  d^tachements  que  les  Anglo-6gyptiens 
rencontrent  de  temps  en  temps  et  qu'ils  mettent  en  fuite  avec 
une  facility  si  grande,  ce  sont  simplement  des  6claireurs  qui 
viennent  en  reconnaisance  et  tachent  de  se  renseigner  sur  les 
mouvements  des  Anglais. 

Quant  a  ceux-ci,  leurs  intentions  ne  sont  pas  douteuses. 
lis  veulent,  tout  d'abord,  conqudrir  Khartoum  et  6craser  le 
Khalifa  afin  d'en  finir  d'un  coup  avec  les  derviches.  En 
meme  temps,  ils  vengeront  la  mort  de  Gordon,  ce  qui  a  toujours 
(5t6  un  de  leurs  buts  principaux.  Cela  est  fort  comprehensible 
et  mdme  louable.  Mais  quand  ils  seront  maitres  de  Khar- 
toum, quand  ils  auront  bris6  le  pouvoir  des  derviches  et 
reconquis  le  Soudan,  ils  auront,  du  m6me  coup,  rouvert  la 
question  du  Soudan  et  la  question  d'Egypte  que  Ton  affecte, 
en  Angleterre,  de  consid6rer  comme  r6gl6es  ou,  tout  ou  moins, 
comme  oubli6es.  Alors  se  posera  de  nouveau  la  question  de 
r^vacuation  de  la  vall6e  du  Nil  et  avec  d'autant  plus  de  force 
que  la  plupart  des  motifs  donnas  par  les  Anglais  pour  justifier 
leur  occupation  prolong6e  n'existeront  plus  et  que,  par  suite 
des  int6rets  multiples  acquis  en  Extrdme-Orient  par  ptusieurs 
grandes  puissances  europ(§ennes,  la  question  d'Egypte  sera 
devenue  plus  g6n6rale.  Du  jour  ou  la  question  d'Orient 
s'est  transform^  ou  prolongie  en  question  d'Extreme-Orient, 
la  question  d'Egypte  s'est  modifi6e  elle  aussi  ;  et  ce  n'est  plus 
seulement  la  France  que  I'Angleterre  a  a  consid6rer,  mais  l;i 
Russie,  mais  I'Allemagne  qui  ont  des  int6rets  commerciaux  a 
protcger  en  Chine  et  ailleurs,  et  qui  ne  veulent  pas  que 
I'Angleterre  puisse  un  jour  leur  fermer,  si  elle  en  avait  I'envie, 
la  porte  de  I'Extreme-Orient. 

Les  evfenements  ont  marchi  trop  vite  au  gr6  des  hommes 
d'Etat  anglais.  Depuis  longtemps  on  pr6voyait  que  la  ques- 
tion d'Orient  se  transporterait  en  Extreme-Orient,  et  ce  n'est 
pas  pour  autre  chose  que,  a  Tissue  de  la  guerre  sino-japonaise, 
la  Russie,  la  France  et  I'Allemagne  sont  intervenues  entre  la 
Chine  et  ses  vainqueurs.  C'6tait  un  jalon  pos6,  et  les  choses 
^^Viraient  pu  rester  dans  l'6tat  ou  elles  6taient  pendant  bien  des 


REVUE   DU   MOIS.  50I 

ann6es  sans  la  fameuse  expedition  allemande  laquelle  a  pre- 
cipit6  les  6vfenements  et  cr66  la  situation  tres  delicate  actuelle. 
De  m^me  que  les  derviches  sont  un  pr6texte  pour  I'exp^dition 
du  Soudan,  le  meurtre  des  missionnaires  allemands  a  6t6  un 
pr6texte  pour  Toccupation  de  Kiatcheou.  On  n'ignorait  pas  a 
St-P6tersbourg  qu'un  jour  ou  I'autre  TAUemagne  viendrait 
etablir  en  Chine  une  station  navale  et  s'y  ouvrir  un  port  de 
commerce  ;  mais  on  y  a  6t6  fort  surpris  de  la  brusquerie  avec  , 
laquelle  les  Allemands  ont  op6r6.  Ce  n'est  pas  tant  la  chose 
elle-meme  que  la  fa^on  dont  elle  a  6t6  faite  qui  a  un  pen 
bless6  les  susceptibilit6s  russes.  On  Ta  bien  vu  par  la  r6- 
ponse  de  la  Russie,  qui  a  imm6diatement  occup6  Port  Arthur. 
L'Angleterre,  qui  a  en  Chine  des  interets  commerciaux  plus 
considerables,  cela  est  certain,  que  ceux  des  autres  puissances, 
aprfes  avoir  fait  des  gorges-chaudes  aux  d6pens  de  Tempereur 
d'Allemagne  et  du  prince  Henri,  s'est  6mue  a  son  tour  et  a 
envoy6  des  batiments  de  guerre  en  Cor6e  et  a  Port  Arthur. 
Ce  n'est'.  que  plus  tard  qu'elle  en  a  envoye  a  Kiatcheou,  et  il 
est  assez  curieux  que,  etant  donne  que  ce  sont  les  Allemands 
qui  ont  ouvert  la  question  de  Chine  et  qui  ont  viol6  le  terri- 
toire  chinois,  ce  soient  les  Russes  que  les  Anglais  se  sont 
mis  a  surveiller  avec  une  ostentation  blessante.  En  dehors 
des  mouvements  de  sa  flotte,  cependant,  i'Angleterre  —  en 
apparence  du  moins — ne  faisait  rien,  lorsque  le  bruit  se  r6pan- 
dit  en  Europe  que  Lord  Salisbury  allait  offrir  au  gouvemeraent 
du  Fils  du  Ciel  les  seize  millions  sterling  dont  celui-ci  a  besoin. 
11  est  a  supposer  que  Lord  Salisbury  a  du  dtre  assez  m6content 
de  constater  que  la  nouvelle  de  sa  combinaison  s'6tait  ebruitce 
et  que,  grace  a  cette  indiscretion,  son  coup  de  thdatre  allait 
se  trouver  compromis.  Quelques  jours  apr^s,  on  eut  des 
details  plus  precis,  Ce  n'etait  pas  seize  millions,  mais  douzc, 
que  Lord  Salisbury  offrait  a  la  Chine  et,  quant  aux  conditions, 
elles  eiaient  les  suivantes  :  I'emprunt  serait  remboursable  en 
cinquante  ans  et  porterait  interet  a  4  pour  cent ;  la  Chine 
s'engagerait,  en  echange  du  bon  procede  de  TAngleterre,  a 
ouvrir  au  commerce  trois  nouveaux  ports,  dont  Talienwan,  a 
ne  ceder  a  aucune  puissance  une  partie  quelconque  de  la  valiee 
du  Yang-tze-kiang  et  a  laisser  les  Anglais  continuer  jusque 
jifjns  Tinterieur  du  Yun-nan  le  chemjn  c}e  fer  c}e  la  ^irnianie. 


502  COSMOPOLIS. 

On  peut  parfois  etre  trop  habile.  Si  Lord  Salisbury  n'avait 
pas  demands  Talienwan,  il  est  possible  qu'il  eut  men6  a  bonne 
tin  une  petite  operation  politico-financifere,  imit^e  de  celle  que 
fit  I-rOrd  Beaconsfield  en  achetant  les  actions  du  canal  de  Suez 
qui  appartenaient  au  Khddive  ;  mais  possible  seulement.  Car 
si  la  Russie  n'avait  pas  tenu  a  se  r6server  Talienwan,  qui  doit 
etre  le  terminus  de  son  chemin  de  fer  transsib^rien,  rien  ne 
dit  qu'elle,  et  d'autres  puissances  avec  elle,  auraient  laissd 
TAngleterre  renouveler  en  Chine  Texpfirience  qui  lui  a  si 
bien  r6ussi  en  Egypte.  II  est  dit,  en  effet,  dans  rarrangement 
projetd  avec  la  Chine,  qu'en  cas  de  non-payement  (de  Tint^ret 
ou  du  capital,  cela  n'est  pas  trds  clair),  TAngleterre  aurait  la 
haute  main  sur  Tadministration  des  revenus  de  la  Chine.  Or, 
une  fois  la  Grande-Bretagne  mcl^e  au  gouvernement  de  P6kin, 
il  serait  impossible  de  Ten  d^logcr  ;  et  en  politique,  comme 
en  m6decine,  il  vaut  beaucoup  mieux  pr6venir  que  guerir,  les 
maladies  politiques  de  caractcrc  international  6tant  g6n6rale- 
ment  incurables. 

Aussi  M.  Pavloff,  le  charge  d'affaires  russe  a  P6kin,  fit-il  les 
plus  grands  efforts  pour  empecher  que  les  n^gociations  en- 
tamees  par  Sir  Claude  Macdonald  aboutissent  et,  appuy6  par 
le  ministre  de  France,  il  semble  avoir  r6ussi  tout  au  moins 
a  en  retarder  la  conclusion.  Ce  qui  donnerait  a  penser  que 
cette  affaire  a  6chou6,  c'est  que  Sir  Michael  Hicks-Beach  a  dit 
rccemment  que,  si  les  negotiations  n'aboutissaient  pas,  I'Angle- 
terre  aurait,  dans  tous  les  cas,  donnd  a  la  Chine  une  preuve 
de  son  amiti6  dans  un  moment  difficile. 

Mais  il  a  dit  autre  chose.  Sir  Michael  Hicks-Beach,  et  il  a 
meme  produit  dans  toute  I'Europe,  comme  en  Asie,  une  assez 
vive  mais  courte  sensation.  Sir  Michael  Hicks-Beach,  le 
chancelier  de  I'Echiquier  est,  comme  le  jeune  M.  Nathaniel 
Curzon,  un  des  hommes  d'Etat  les  plus  dangereux  de 
I'Angleterre ;  il  a  des  emportements  terribles  et  il  n'est  pas 
maitre  de  sa  parole,  laquelle  trahit  souvent  sa  pens6e.  C'est 
lui  qui,  il  y  a  deux  ans,  parlait  d'un  ton  si  belliqueux  du 
Soudan  et  nous  mena^ait  presque  d'une  guerre  ;  on  se  regarda 
avec  surprise  ;  I'impression  s'efta^a  vite  et  ce  ne  fut  meme  pas 
un  de  ces  "6tonnements  de  neuf  jours"  dont  parlent  les 
Anglais  ;  c'est  lui  qui,  il  y  a  quelaue  mois,  s'6cria,  en  chanfe- 


REVUE  DU   MOIS.  503 

Her  de  TEchiquier  plus  soucieux  des  deniers  publics  que 
respectueux  des  convenances  et  observateur  de  la  courtoisie 
que  Ton  se  doit  entre  membres  du  m6me  Cabinet,  que,  en  ce 
qui  concerne  I'arm^e,  I'Angleterre  "n'en  a  pas  pour  son 
argent";  c'est  lui  enfin  qui,  a  Bristol,  Tautre  jour,  a  declare 
que  I'Angleterre  ne  supportera  pas,  meme  s'il  lui  en  coiite  une 
guerre,  que  Ton  ferme  la  porte  du  commerce  de  la  Chine. 
Comme  personne  n'a  jamais  eu  I'intention  de  rien  fermer  du 
tout,  Sir  Michael  Hicks-Beach  s'est  donn6  le  luxe  d'enfoncer 
une  porte  ouverte, — operation  facile  et  a  la  port6e  de  tous. 
Et  quelle  situation  comique  que  celle  du  chancelier  de  TEchi- 
quier  qui  declare  un  jour  que  I'arm^e  anglaise  ne  vaut  rien  et 
qui,  le  lendemain,  part  en  guerre  contre  tout  I'univers.  M, 
Cur7on  n'a  jamais  rien  fait  de  mieux  ;  il  est  d^pass^  du  coup 
par  Sir  Michael  Hicks-Beach,  II  est  vrai  que  celui-ci  est 
ministre,  membre  du  Cabinet,  tandis  que  M.  Curzon  n'est 
encore  que  sous-secr6taire  d'Etat.  La  finance  anglaise,  si 
facilement  efifarouch6e  d'ordinaire,  mais  qui  connait  bien  son 
chancelier  de  I'Echiquier,  n'a  point  pris  peur  ;  les  fonds  n'ont 
pas  baiss6  malgr6  son  discours  belliqueux,  d6ja  oubli^  d'ailleurs, 
et  la  sensation  n'a  pas  dur6  longtemps.  A  I'^tranger,  quand 
on  a  vu  comment  la  Bourse  de  Londres  prenait  les  choses, 
on  s'est  vite  rassur6  ;  on  ne  se  serait  jamais  6mu  si  Ton  avait 
mieux  connu  Sir  Michael  Hicks-Beach  dont  les  intemperances 
de  langage  sont  l^gendaires  dans  son  pays. 

N'en  d^plaise  a  certains  organes  de  la  presse  anglaise,  il 
est  bien  difficile  de  croire  a  la  "guerre  en  vue."  A  qui 
I'Angleterre  ferait-elle  la  guerre,  et  pourquoi  ?  A  la  Chine, 
parce  qu'elle  n'accepte  pas  I'argent  que  lui  offre  Lord  Salis- 
bury !  Cela  n'est  pas  s6rieux.  La  Chine  a  le  droit  d'emprunter 
a  qui  elle  veut,  comme  elle  veut,  aux  conditions  qu'elle  veut 
et  m6me  de  ne  rien  emprunter  du  tout,  au  risque  de  voir  les 
Japonais  occuper  ind^finiment  Wei-hai-wei.  Ce  ne  sont 
certainement  pas  les  Japonais  qui  se  plaindraient  de  la  pro- 
longation de  cette  occupation,  qui  ne  leur  coute  rien,  d'ailleurs, 
puisque,  comme  I'Angleterre  en  Egypte,  ils  font  payer  par  les 
gens  du  pays  qu'ils  occupent  les  frais  de  I'arm^e  d'occupa- 
tion.  Cela  ne  veut  pas  dire  que  les  Japonais  ne  soient  pas 
cl'<^<?cord  avec  les  Anglais  et  que  le  gouyernement  du  Mikado 


504  COSMOPOLIS. 

ne  niarchc  pas  la  main  dans  la  main  avec  celui  de  la  Reine. 
All  point  de  vue  politique,  I'entente  entre  le  Japon  et  la 
(jrande-Bretagne  est,  tres  probablement,  complete  et,  s'il  6tait 
question  d'un  d^membrement  de  la  Chine,  d'un  partage,  de  la 
delimitation  de  spheres  d'influence,  les  deux  puissances 
agiraient  de  concert ;  mais  aussi  longtemps  qu'il  ne  s'agira  que 
d'un  emprunt  dont  le  but  principal  est  de  faire  partir  les 
Japonais  du  territoire  chinois,  le  Japon  a  les  meilleures  raisons 
du  monde  pour  ne  pas  etre  press6  et  faire  preuve  de  la  plus 
grande  patience.  Du  c6t6  de  la  Chine,  c'est  le  contraire  qui 
est  vrai  ;  les  hommes  d'Eitat  chinois,  s'il  en  existe,  doivent 
etre  trcs  d^sireux  de  se  d^barrasser  de  rarm6e  d'occupation 
japonaise  dont  la  pr<^*sence  est  un  outrage  aux  Celestes  en 
meme  temps  qu'une  forte  d6pense.  Cast  bien  la-dessus  et  sur 
la  necessity  de  verser  une  dizaine  de  millions  aux  Japonais  au 
mois  de  mai  que  Lord  Salisbury  avait  conipt6,  un  peu  trop 
sans  son  bote  cependant.  Le  mandarin  chinois,  s'il  n'est  pas 
grand  politique,  est  bon  homme  d'affaires,  et  il  a  vite  vu  —  on 
I'y  a  peut-6tre  aid^  —  que  les  conditions  mises  par  I'Angleterre  a 
son  pret  de  douze  millions  sont  un  peu  on^reuses.  II  aime 
aussi  a  etre  maitre  chez  lui,  et,  moins  par  patriotisme,  peut- 
etre  que  par  la  crainte  dc  ne  pouvoir  s'enrichir,  comme 
a  present,  aux  d6pens  des  corv6ables,  il  ne  voit  pas  trfe 
favorablement  une  op6ration  (inanci^re  qui  iintrait  par 
confier  I'administration  de  son  pays  a  des  Anglais.  I-a 
Chine,  apres  tout,  n'a  pas  6puise  toutes  les  garanties  qu'elle 
pent  donner  et,  dans  son  int6ret  bien  compris,  elle  doit,  meme 
au  prix  de  sacrifices  p6cuniaires  trfes  considerables,  chercher 
a  emprunter  a  des  particuliers  plutot  qu'au  gouvernement 
anglais,  qui  serai t  un  crcancier  tres  dur,  tres  exigeant,  tres 
dangereux.  II  doit  y  avoir  quelque  part,  dans  la  litttrature 
chinoise,  un  Equivalent  du  mot  de  La  Fontaine  : 

I^iissez  leur  prendre  un  pied  chc/  voiis, 
lis  en  j^nront  bientdt  pris  quatrc, 

Interim. 


BULLETIN    LITTHRAIRH. 


BIBLIOGRAPHIE. 


Hkxky  Bkkkm;kk  :  La  Vioic.   (Aniiiind 
Colin.) 

I 'our  jugcr  dctiiiitivement  rceuvrc 
nouvclle  de  M.  Henry  Bercnger,  il  fauL 
attendrc  Ic  second  tableau  de  son 
diptyque.  Ce  que  Ton  peul  dire  des 
niaintenant  c'est  qu'elle  est  intiniment 
intcressante.  \ai  heros,  Kaoul  Kozcl,  est 
;i  vingt-six  anjj  ce  que  tout  jeune  iii- 
tcllectuel  fran^ais  a  reve  d'etre  au  soilir 
cUi  lycce.  C'est  un  elre  admirableuient 
doue,  un  conquerant,  un  fort,  qui  veut  fairc 
lie  ki  bociete  sa  proie  et  la  diriger  souve- 
rainement  par  des  inoyens  dont  il  :jera 
juge  dans  Ic  sens  que  son  ambition  et  sa 
dn»iture  primitive  reelle  lui  imposcront. 
Vn  seul  volume  lui  acquiert  la  celebrite. 
I'ne  campagne  lieureuse  de  quclques 
jours  lui  donne  un  siege  de  depute.  Son 
premier  discours  renverse  un  ministere. 
II  epouse  la  jeune  Bile  riche  dont  la 
beautc  Ic  char  me  et  dunt  la  dot  lui 
assure  I'independance.  La  societe  est  sa 
proie.  En  r^dile,  chacune  de  ses  con- 
quetes  eai  un  asservissement.  II  est 
devenu  I'esclave  de  son  succes,  de  son 
ambition,  des  compromissions  qui  lui 
bont  necessaires.  Son  egoisme  a  brise 
des  liens  sacres,  mine  sa  veritable  force, 
conipromis  les  sources  authentiques  du 
bonheur.  Au  lieu  d'etre  reste  le 
•'  prince  de  la  jeunesse,"  le  guide 
genereux  de  la  France  vers  une  renova- 
tion sociale,  il  n'est  plus  que  le  gendre 
dun  senateur  louche.  Le  moment  de 
bon  grand  triomphe  apparent  est  celui 
de  sa  faillite  prochaine.  II  a  etouffe 
en  lu^  la  vie  morale  interieure  sans  la- 
quellc  tous  ses  talents  ne  Ini  donneront 
ni  le  bonheur,  ni  la  vraie  force.    Que  va- 


t-il  advcnir  dc  lui.  Lc  prochaiii  vulunie 
nous  lc  dim.  Kn  niemc  Icmps  qu'un 
roman  moral  et  social  de  premier  nit- 
rite, M.  Henry  Herenger  nous  donne  une 
belle  pt.inture  de  beauconp  de  clioses  de 
la  France  moderne. 

Victor  Chauhoxxkl:    Im    VoIouU'   ilc 
livrc.     (Armand  Colin.) 

M.  Victor  Charbonnel,  dont  on  connait 
la  separation  iccenlc  de  I'Kglise  catho- 
lique,  public  sous  cc  litre  une  seric  de 
niediiations.  Elles  icvclcnt  une  aine 
rcligieuse  et  ardente  au  bicn  universel. 
Mais  a  les  parcourir,  on  s'etoinic  que 
Tauteur  ait  pu  etre  tolcre  aussi  longtemps 
dans  le  >ein  de  rKglise  catholique.  Ce 
livre.  aprcs  louvrage  recent  de  M. 
Sabalier,  e>l  un  des  lemoignages  les 
plus  remarquables  de  cet  esprit  Chretien 
nouveau  qui  cherche  le  "  Dieuinterieur.'* 
A  cet  egard  la  derniere  meditation  du 
livre  :  Priirc  an  Dicu  inconnUy  est  tout  a 
fait  instructive.  **  Donne-nioi,dit  Tauteur 
en  s'adressant  au  Dieu  inconnu,  donne- 
moi  et  donne  a  tous  les  hommes,  de  plus 
en  plus  ardente,  rinquietude  de  Ta  verite 
et  de  Ta  force  qui  habitent,  botes  long- 
temps  ignores,  les  profondeurs  sacrees 
de  la  conscience,  et  que  nous  honorcrons 
desormais,  puisque  les  autres  dieux 
semblent  s'ensevelir  dans  loubli  lugubre 
de  leurs  temples,  de  notre  supreme 
religion  ct  de  nos  supremes  prieres." 

Alfred  Di\)i;rt  :     Paris.     Lc  Horn  bar' 
dement  ct  liuzcnrat.     (Fasquelle.) 

M.  A.   Duquet  public  sous  ce  litre  le 

.'  deu.xieme  vulunie  dc  son    uuvrage   sur 

rhistoire  de  la  guerre  franco-allemande, 

auquel       I'Acadcmie      fran^aisc      vient 

d'accorder  le   prix   Herger,  le  plus  iin- 


^o6 


COSMOMLIS. 


portant  do  ceux  dont  clle  dispose.  II 
oH'rc  Ic's  nicnics  qualilcs  ct  Ics  iiicmes 
dcfauts  que  Ic  precedent.  Cet  ouvra^e, 
nil  des  plus  considerables  qui  aient  ele 
pubiies  sur  la  guerre  de  1870,  est  le  fruit 
de  beaucoup  de  travail  et  repose  sur 
I'etude  d'un  grand  nonibre  de  pieces. 
Tous  les  historicn  de  I'avenir  auiront  :i 
en  lenir  compte.  II  est  souvenl  depare  par 
une  critique  defeclueuse  des  documents, 
par  des  digressions  injustitiees.  par  des 
aigreurs  ct  des  violences  de  plume 
indignes  de  riiistoire  et  par  une 
habitude  emprunlee  au  plus  mauvais 
journalisme  de  faire  lalevon — aprcs  coup 
— aux  generaux  vaincus.  C'est  as>*ez 
facile  el  peu  inleressant. 

PiKUKK  Lorvs  :  Lis  ihtifisoNs  tic  liiiiiis. 
N'ouvelle  edition.  (Mercure  de 
Krance  ) 

C'est  le    meilleur   livre   de    M.  Pierre 

L  >uys   sans  contredit,    Ires   supericur  a 

Af*liiV(iitc.     Rien  de  nioins  grec  souvent 

et     dc    plus     truque.       Mais     erotisme 

ratline,   minutieux  ct  violent  ;  un  art  tres 

delicat,     tres     leger,     cherche    parfois 

jusqu'a  la    puerilile  ;  aillcurs    vraiment 

e.xquis ;    artiticici,     polisseur,    maniere, 

troublanl   pourtant.      Les    pages   de   ce 

livre  onl  un  goiit  et  un  parfum.     On  les 

deguste  coinmc  on  puiserait   dans   une 

cassette  trop  parfumee  du  seraient  jetes 

pele-mele  et  indistinguablesdes  bonbons 

savants  et  tins,  de  lies  niauvaises  drogues 

d'epicerie,  des  pilules  pliarraaceutiques 

inquielantes  et  de  simples  morceaux  de 

Sucre  colore.      On  puise,  on  gofile.     Le 

goiit  premier  est  toujours  le  meme.  Mais 

des    impressions    varices,     delicates    et 


fugitives  sont  suscitecs  et  dispiraisscnl 
On  persiste,  tente  et  agiic6,  charnic  c^ 
devu  !  La  cassette  vide,  on  denieure  la 
gourmandise  irritee,  le  palais  indccis. 
I'estomac  tinalement  ccteure.  Kt  Ton 
aspire  aux  friandises  authenliquo 
dAnatole  Knmce,  voire  des  gros^c^ 
viandes  de  Zola. 

ViCU.MTK  l)K  Sl'(El.BKKCH  l)K  LOVEXJOI  I.: 

A  It  tour  lie  Hoiiorc  dc  Balzac.  (Caliiiann 
Levy.) 

M.  de  Lovenjoul  est  peut-elre  a  riicurc 
actuelle  riiomme  qui  coniuiit  le  micux 
notre  litlerature  roniantique  du  second 
tiers  du  XIX"  siccle.  Ralzac  en  parti - 
culier,  dont  il  est  I'edUeur  el  dont  ii 
possede  encore  de  nonibreuses  picco 
inedites,  n'a  pas  de  secrets  pour  lui 
Tous  les  crudits  el  lous  les  curieux 
accueijleront  avec  autanl  de  recon- 
naissance que  de  contiaiice  le  nouveau 
volume,  oil  M.  de  Spcclberch  a  Axe  un 
certain  nombre  de  points  intercssaiils 
touchant  la  vie  et  les  ueuvres  du  celebrc 
romancicr. 

KmiAK  KoEi^  :  Hotis  ct  Auiiiais.  An- 
tour  tics  Mines  tVOr  tin  TraiLWtuil 
(Hennuyer.) 

L'auteur   public  des  notes  recueillics 

sans    idee  preconvue    au    cours   d'unc 

mission    au     Transvaal,    que    lui    avail 

confiee  le     Tcin^.     KUes    sont    accmn- 

pagnees  dun  travail  de  M.  H.  Dcsjardins 

sur    la    situation     internationale    de   la 

Kepublique  sud*africaine. 

G.  Ckrfukkk  el  M.  V.  K.\min  :  Piction' 
Nil  ire  dc  la  Fcmmc.  Encyclopedic  Mii- 
unci  des  Conuaissaju'cs  uldcs  ii  Ui 
Vcmmc.  (Maison  Didot.) 


THKATKES. 


A  \.\  Ken.\is.s.anci:,  Les  Man  cats 
Ikr^crs,  piece  a  these  ou  M.  Octave 
Mirbeau  expose,  cotnme  d'autres  ont  fail 
avant  lui,  le  problems  social,  sans 
d'ailleurs  le  resoudre  da  vantage.  Tres 
remarquablenient  jouee  par  Mme  Sarah 
Hernhardt,  eta  cote  d'elle  par  MM.  Deval 
et  Guilrv. 

La  Re\'uc  de  rATHKXKE  :  Cochcr,  rue 
Boudrctiu,  de  MM.  Gavault  et  dc  Cottens, 
rencontra  pres  du  public  et  dans  la 
presse  un  accueil  chaleureux.    Plusieura 


scenes,  eiitre  autres  celle  du  telephone 
ou  un  abonne  arrive  a  ne  plus  savuir 
parler  que  par  chiffres  ct  la  scene 
de  la  revanche  des  femnies,  en 
possession,  a  leur  lour,  du  barreau  et  dc 
la  tnagistrature,  sont  d'un  jali  tour  dc 
drolerie  et  d'originalile. 

Mtidauic  yaloucttCy  aux  Noivkaites 
n'a  pas  tenu  TaiHiche,  ct  il  senible  que 
M.  Gandillot,  dans  cettc  piece,-  n*ait 
pas  retrouve  sa  fantaisie  habituelle. 

Au    Vai'dkville,  reprise    de    Saf^o 


bULLEtiN   LITTERAIRE. 


So^ 


par  .>imj  Kcjane  aprc-s  sa  tournec. 
Kcprcbciitation  attristc'e  par  ia  niort  dii 
inaitrc  Daudct. 

I>c  Thkatkk  Fk.wvais,  iiuus  a  domic 
cc  iiiois-ci,  Tacle  dc  M.  Dcrouledc,  Lti 
plus  iolif  Fillc  tin  Motulc.  Succcs  pour 
rautcur  ct  puur  Mile  Kcichcubcr^, 
doiit  cc  sera,  il  parail,  la  dciiiicrc 
creation  rue  Richelieu. 

A  la  I*«)KTK-St-Maktin,  L'yiiiiio  tU 
litixi'tiu^  }{rand  diaine  de  cape  et  d'epee 
de  M.  Kdinoiid  Kostand,  a  reinporlc  uii 
dc>  >uccei  Ics  plus  enthuusia^les  de  ces 
viiigtdemieresannees.  Ce  lut  uiie  soiree 
nieinorahle  ou  I'auteur  des  Rouiams^uis 
et  de  lii  Samarititiue^  sc  revela  coinine 
UII  iHiete  de  magiiilique  aveiiir.  Lea  vers 
y  sDiU  d'une  faiitaisie  et  dime  ;^race 
iiiliiiies  et  les  repliqut\s  dune  verve 
elourdidsaiite  et  rare.  M.  Cvxjuelin  a 
Inmve  dans  Cvrano  une  de  ses  plus 
belles  creations. 

A  rOiiKON,  U  Pass/,  de  M.  de  Porto- 
Kiche  ebt  loin  de  valoir  Ji//i)/rrt'//M'>  du 


ineine  auteur.  Hien  que  les  qualites  de 
sensibilite  et  d'analyse  aigue  dont  M.  de 
Porto-Riclie  est  coutuniier  s'y  retrouvent 
en  abondaiice,  la  piece  semble  luoiiis 
bien  venue  et  le  sujet  un  peu  menu  pour 
un  s»i  long  devCloppemenl. 

Le  Thkatkk  Axtoixk  a  repri.s 
rEiolc  (ics  Vt'ii/s,  la  rcmarquable  piece 
de  M.  Aiicey,  jadis  applaudie  au  Theatre- 
Libre  ;  egalenient  reprise  de  Saiti 
/'liiiomi'iti',  de  MM.  de  Goncuurt. 

Representation  au  Thkatkk  dk 
i.'CKiVRK,  dii  Rt'iizor  de  (iogt>l,  traduil 
par  Merimee.  Comedie  aimableet  farce 
tnolicresque  fort  connue  de  rancieiine 
generation  et  que  les  acleurs  de  M. 
Lugne  Poe  nous  ont  representee  de 
de  leurs  inieux. 

Le  Palais  Royal  a  repris  Fcii 
Toupiml,  de  Hisson,  joue  au  Vaudeville 
en  i8(>oavec  un  ties  grand  succcc>  dc 
rire  el  de  g.iite  ;  succcs  que  la  piece  a 
rclrouvc  sur  celte  nouvelle  scene. 


REVUE  DES  REVUES. 


Kkvik  des  Dkux-Mondks,  i"  /ti//i/t  /  .• 
Liitrts  nrihs  tfAljii/rii'  tin  mtin'chiil  di 
Ciisli'iittnc.  Klles  sont  extrailcs  des  cor- 
respondances  adressees  de  1835  a  iW)2 
par  divers  olViciers  au  marechal  de 
C.istellaiie,  correspondances  que  Mine 
de  Heaulaincourt,  fille  du  marechal,  va 
f.iiie  parailre  prochainement.  Klles 
eclairent  plusieurs  j-M)inls  de  I'histoire 
lie  la  conquele  de  TAlgcrie,  et  peuvent 
servir  a  compleler  la  physioiiomie  du 
marechal.  yuelques-unes  sont  signee-* 
de  nnms  devenus  illustres,  Changarnier, 
Lanioricieie,  Le  Flo,  Canrobert,  etc. 
I>cur  iiiteret  est  en  somine  assez  faible.  — 
M.  Georges  Goyau  etudte  Ic  Rvi^inic  dc  la 
(rramic  PropruU^  dans  les  Calabns.  II 
montre  comment  une  oli^archie  nouvelle 
s'est  juxtap<»see  ou  substituee  a  I'ancienne 
aristocratie  fcodale.  Aucune  ameliora- 
tion socialc  ou  agraire  n'a  ete  realisce. 
La  situation  des  paysans  est  lamentable 
ct  naturcllement  le  socialisme  s'y  deve- 
loppc.  — 15  /ii/ii'/V/ ;  M.  Henry  Huus- 
sayc  commence  un  important  travail 
sur  la  Bataillc  dc  Liguy.  —  Mine  Th. 
Bentzon  etudie  C/n  Poctc^Musicien^  Sidney 
Lanier. 


Rkvuk  I>K  Pakis,  x^'^iaiivur :  M.Aiia- 
tule  France  coiisacre  quelques  pages  a 
.'liplioiisc  Daudct.  —  Sir  Charles  Dilke 
public  un  article  sur /Tim// /•<•  biitaniiiijuc 
{(ircatcr  lihltiiu).  Discutant  les  idees  re- 
cemment  emises  par  M.  Pierre  Lerijy- 
Beaulieu,  il  y  declare  impossible  la  re- 
piesenlation  de  tout  i'empirc  dans  un 
meme  parlemeiit  ou  la  creation  d'un 
Zolh'cn  ill  britannique.  '*  On  pent  espcrer 
seulement  une  union  defensive  plus 
clroite  des  pays  britanniques,  londee  sur 
des  enga^'cmeiits  librement  contractes." 
II  parcourt,  loujours  a  la  suite  de  M. 
Pierre  Leroy-Heaulieu,  les  di  verses 
parties  de  I'empire  britannique  et  mon- 
tre les  avantages  que  I'Angleterrc  retire 
de  ses  colonies  telles  qu'elles  sont 
administrees.  C'csi  le  langage  d'un 
Anglais  parlant  de  clioses  anglaises  dans 
une  revue  franvaise  :  c'est-a-dire  un 
article  cit  surface,  viii  article  d'exj^orta- 
lion.  —  Suite  de  la  Correspondancc  de 
Renan  et  des  papiers  du  marechal 
Davoust.  —  M.  K.  Vedel  clecrit  itnc 
Joiinue  a  Canton.  —  15  Janvier :  11 
faut  lire  les  Lctircs  ecrites  dc  Bruxellcs 
par  Victor  Hugo  au  lendemain  du  coup 


5o8 


COSmoPOLlS. 


(rKtal.  Kilo  iioiis  apprciinciit  que  (It-i 
cc  inuinciil  Vicioi'  Hu^u  se  iiiit  ii 
tiiivaillcr  a  t'Histoirc  il'iiii  Crime.  On 
y  trouvc  dc  leloqucncc,  cle  rcinpliase, 
dcs  mots  historiques  ct  dcs  details  qui 
font  soinire.  La  majorite  de  ces  leltres 
sont  adrcssees  a  Mme  Victor  Hugo.  — 
M.  V.  Herard  public  un  troisieme  artidc 
sur  les  Affaires  tic  Crck.  —  M.  Cieorj^cs 
de  l*orto-Riche  adievc  la  publication, 
comniencee  dans  Ic  fascicule  precedent, 
de  .SI  tres  intcres^ante  comedie,  le  1\i:>sc. 

Li:  Cokkkspondant,  25  denmbre  :  Lc 
due  de  Hroj^Iie  eludie  Voltaire  avtuit  it 
pi'iiiiiiut  la  (iitenr  tic  Sept  Ans. —  M. 
K.  K.  Johanet  jMJurbuit  ses  curieuses 
etudes,  Aiitoiir  tin  Moiuie  luillioiniaire 
amerieain.  II  y  examine  *'  Le  Divorce  " 
et  *'^)uclques  tantaisies  du  million."  On 
y  trouvera  quelques  details  amusant> 
ct  qucKjues  anecdotes  ty  piques.  — 
10  Janvier  :  Fin  des  etudes  de  M. 
Jolianet  sur  le  monde  millioimaire 
amerieain.  —  M.  Francois  Cany  etudic 
le  Vatiian  el  leOiiiriiial  en  |S()S.  Voici 
la  conclusion  dc  son  article  :  "  De  iiuel- 
que  cute  que  nous  portions  les  ycux  a 
komc,  en  Italic,  en  Kurope,  les  dernieres 
annces  qui  vieinient  dc  s'ecouler  bicn  loin 
d'apporler  a  la  Papaule  des  motifs  de 
desesperancc,  semblenl  au  contrairc  mul- 
tiplier autour  d'elle  les  promesses  dc 
rclevenicnt  et  les  gages  dc  consolation.'* 
M.  de  Lapparent  resume  les  voyages  du 
Sucdois,  Sven  Hedin,  dans  I'Asic  cen- 
trale.  —  M.  V.  H.  Clerissac  etudic  le 
Canlinal  Wiseman,  d'apres  lc  recent 
ouvrage  dc  M.  W.  Ward. 

Kkvi:k  des  Kevies,  i^\jaiivier :  Un 
tres  instructif  article  de  M.  L.  de  Xor- 
vins  sur  rArl  tic  I'Aliiehc:  les  Maitres 
i'tran^ers. —  1$  iaurier:  II  faut  lire  un 
tres  interessant  article  et  admirablcment 
juste  de  M.  Henry  Bcrenger  sur  les 
Proletaircs  intellcetuels  en  F ranee,  autre- 
ment  dit  sur  lc  nombre  de  declasses 
croissant  qui  resulte  de  I'cxageration 
avcc  laquelle  on  sc  rue  vera  les  carriercs 
administratives  ct  en  particulier  uni- 
versitaires.  —  M.  Ccsarc  de  Ix)llis  montre 
la  part  considerable  qui  est  due  a  Tos- 
canelli  dans  la  dccouvertc  cle  T Amerique. 
—  M.  Ch.  Simond  etudic  la  Correspon- 
dame  militairc  de  Moltke.  —  Fin  de 
I'etude  de  M.  de  Norvins. 


KeVIE    HkHDo.MADAIHE,    2Sdfitmhic: 

M.  Franvois  Coppee  consacre  quelquc't 
pages  emues  a  Alpliotise  Daudel.  —M. 
Kmile  Cere  decrit  la  Mission  du  eaf^i- 
tiiine  Marehand  dan<  TAfrique  cenlralc. 
II  fait  le  portrait  de  rofficier  el  rappellc 
{(tu^  les  services  qu'il  a  rendus  a  hi 
France,  tous  ceux  qu'(»n  f>cut  attemlrc 
dc  lui,  si,  comme  on  pcut  Tespercr. 
cest  a  tort  que  le  bruit  de  sa  mort  a  dc 
rcpandu.  —  v  Janvier:  Mme.  Marie 
Drousart  etudic  Us  Musnlmancs  eonkni' 
poraines  d'apres  Ic  livre  recent  de  Alihc 
Hanoum.  Kile  y  a  decouvert  "uiic 
femmc  vraiment  satisfaite  de  son  sort. ' 
.Vlihe  Hanoum  defend  vivcment  contrc 
nos  critiques  les  mccurs  orientales  et  en 
particulier  la  situation  qu'elles  font  a  la 
fennne  et  qui  est  bien  nioins  degradaiite 
que  beaucoup  d'Europeens  ne  se  Tima- 
gincnt.  S(m  livre  est  un  plaid(»yer  cu- 
rie ux  et  inattendu  chez  one  Orientale.  — 
S  Janvier :  On  comparera  avcc  interel 
aux  articles  de  M.  Chailley-Hert,  p;iru> 
ici  mcine  sur  Java,  la  seric  que  M.  Jules 
Leclercq  intitule  Dans  7ava  et  doiit 
parait  la  premiere  etude,  illustree  de 
plusicurs  photographies.  Kile  a  un  carat- 
tcrc  avanl  tout  descriptif.  —  15  Janviii: 
Suite  de>  notes  de  voyajres  de  M.Jules 
Leclercq.  —  M.  K.  M.  Ferry  apprecie  la 
rccentc  representation  a  I'CKuvre  de  la 
piece  dc  Xicolas  Gogol,  lc  Rei'i:oi, 
traduite  en  franvais  par  Meriniee.  H 
montre  I'idee  tres  inexacte  que  c*etle 
piece  ainsi  representee  pent  donner  du 
theatre  de  Gogol.  —  MM.  Paul  el  Victor 
Margueritte  publient  un  fragment  inedit 
de  leur  roman  prochain,   le  De'sastre, 

Revue  Bleue,  18  tU'ccmhre :  M. 
Henry  Herenger  |x>ursuit  son  EnquHc 
sur  les  respoiisahilitr's  dc  la  frcssc.  II 
public  des  lettres  de  MM.  Anatole  Lcroy- 
Beaulieu,  Kmile  Zf»la,  Jules  Case, 
Lucien  Marc.  M.  Emile  Zola  declare: 
"  Je  suis  pour  la  liberie  illimilee...  je  iic 
veux  pas  (}u'on  louche  a  la  liberie 
d'ecrirc...  Lc  torrent,  meme  impur, 
fecondera  tout.  I^  verite  ne  pcut  elrc 
que  par  la  liberie." — isdeccnihrc.  Suite 
de  Tenquele  de  M.  Henrj'  BeiX'nger  sur 
les  rcspoHsahilites  de  la  presse,  M.  Jean 
Cruppi  altaque  non  la  liberie  de  la 
presse,  mais  son  irresponsabilitc  ac- 
luelle,  qu'il  serait  possible  de  reprtmcr 


hULLETI^^   LITTERAIKE. 


50() 


Icgalcment.  M.  Georges  Kenard,  I'ecri- 
vain  socialiMtc,  deplore  le  mercantilisnie 
dc  la  presse  acluelle  et  tout  en  recon- 
naissant  la  necessite  de  la  Hbeiie  absoluc 
de  la  presse,  propose  quelques  palltatifs 
aiix  inaux  qu'elle  cause.  Mais  elle  ne 
peut  subir  de  reforme  complete  avant  la 
transformation  radicale  de  la  socicle. — 
M.  Henry  Ceard  consacre  quelques  pages 
a  AlphoHse  Daudet.—M.  J.  du  Tillet 
dissseque  de  bien  amusante  favon  Ics 
Mauvais  Bergcrs^  la  piece  de  M.  Octave 
Mirbeau  que  joue  Mme  Sarah  Bern- 
hardt.— i«f  Janvier:  Suite  de  Tenqucte 
de  M.  Henry  Berenger.  Lettres  de  MM. 
Auguste  Sabatier,  Edmond  Fi-antz  et 
Pierre  Baudin. — 8  Janvier:  Cha/les 
Giraudeau  donne  un  article  sur  M. 
Chamberlain.  En  voici  la  conclusion  : 
•*  Vous  verrez  que  s'il  ne  rencontre  pas 
trop  de  Jameson  sur  8on  chemin,  Josepli 
Chamberlain,  Esq.,  qui  a  commence 
cumme  feu  Bradlaugh,  tinira  comme  le 
le  comte  de  Beaconsfield." 

Revue  ENCYCLOPEDiyiK,  25  lUccmbrc : 
Paul  Leprieur.  J  J  Art  en  Allcma^nc  en 
1897. —  H  Janvier :  M.  Gaston  Levy-Ull- 
mann,  maitre  de  conferences  a  I'Univcr- 
site  d'lTpsal,  donne  un  article  substantiel 
et  interessant,  peut-etre  un  peu  trop  en 
forme  de  catalogue,  sur  la  litterature 
suedoise  de  ces  deniieres  aimees.  11  y 
a  en  Suede  un  veritable  mouvement 
lilteraire,  beaucoup  trop  eclipse  a  nos 
yeux  par  le  mouvement  norwegicn.  M 
Levy  Ullmann  en  presente  les  chefs 
principaux. — M.  Albert  Lefort  dccrit  le 
mouvement  politique  au  Bresil  dans  ces 
trois  derniferes  annecs.  —  M.  Oscar 
d'Araujo  decrit  la  singuliere  epidemic  de 
prophetisme  qui  vient  de  sevir  au  Bresi  1 
et  dont  ie  chef  le  plus  illustre,  Antonio 
Maciel  dit  Conselheiro,  a  etc  lue,  ie 
6  octobre  dernier,  dans  un  engiigement 
avec  les  troupes  gouveniementales.  La 
biographic  de  cet  inspire  est  curicux. 
1$  Janvier :  Tout  le  numero  est  consacre 
a  Alphonse  Daudet. 

La  Quinzaine,  i«'  Janvier  1898  :  M. 
E.  I>e  Camus  dccrit  les  Chants  et  les 
Jcux  traditionnels  des  Enfants  de  Kaui- 
reth.  Ce  sont,  dit-il,  bien  probablement 
"  ceux-la  meme  auxqucls  se  mela  Jesus 
enfant...  Malgrc  I'intrusion  de  la  languc 
arabe  qui  a  reinplace  Taramccnne,   on 

VOI«  IX. — NO.  XXVI. 


pcut  dire...  que  les  jeunes  lucres  de 
Xiizareth  endormcnt  aujourd'hui  encore 
leurs  fils  au  rythme  des  nicnies  ber- 
ceuses que  Marie  chanta  jadis  au  petit 
Jesus  quand  il  pleurait."  L'auteur  justitic 
sa  these  par  des  preuves  tirecs  des 
Evangiles  apocryphes  et  analyse  un 
certain  nombre  de  ces  jeux  et  rondes. 
— 15  Janvier:  M.  Camille  Mauclair 
etudie  Ed^ar  Poe  ide'oloffne.  —  M.  Paul 
Henaudin  apprecie  le  livre  anglais  recent 
de  M.  VV.  Gibson  sur  Laniennais. 

Revuk  PouTigiK  KT  I'aki.emkn- 
TAIKE,  10  Janvier  1898  :  M.  Alcide 
Ebray  decrit  les  Clnbs  politiqiws  an^lais^ 

I  cur  lint,  Icnr  Aetiofi,  lenr  Orflanisalion. 

II  montre   tout   Tintcret  qu'il  y  aurait 
pour  la  France  a  voir  s'acclimater  chez 
elle  celte   institution  dont   il    juge    les 
niodeles  anglais  tout  a  fait  parfaits.  — 
M.  Ferdinand  Lot  compare  le  Bndflet  de 
riCiiseii^nenicnt  snf^crieur  cii  France  et  en 
Allema^ne.     C'est  un  pretexte  pour  lui 
d'altaquer  energiquement  sa  repartition 
actuelle  chez  nous.  —  Sous  la  signature 
"  Tn  Diplomale  "  est  public  un  curieux 
article  au  litre  sensalionnel :  Slaves  et 
Gerfnains.      Restanration     de    VEmpire 
dOrient  par  la   Rnssie  et  de  VEmpire 
d' Occident  par  t'Allemaflnc. 

JoUKXAI-    DES    ECOXOMISTKS,    1 5  jan- 
vicr  i8i;8  :  M.  Achille  Viallate  etudie  le 
nouveau    tarif    americain,    the    Dingley 
Tat  iff.    C'est,  dit-il,  "  le  tarif  le  plus  ex- 
travagant qu'aient  encore  eu  les  Etats- 
Unis."     S'il  n'a  pas  immediatement  tons 
les  mauvais  resultats   que   Ton  doit   en 
attendre,  c'est  a  cause  des  circonstances, 
non     a    cause    dc    la    prevoyance    des 
legislateurs. 

Rkvi'k   nr    Palais,   /«i//i7V/'.-    Lettres 
inedites  d'exil,dc  Jules  Vallcs. 

La  Nouvki.lk  Rkvik.  v\fanvier:  M. 
G.  de  Wailly,  sous  le  titre  de  Hawaf 
libre,  reclame  pour  les  Hawaiens  le 
droit  de  rester  independant.  11  decrit 
le  progres  qu'a  la  tin  du  siecle  dernier 
ils  se  montr^rent  capables  d'accomplir 
en  quelques  annees  et  conclut  :  *'  Un 
peuplc  capable  d'avoir  opcrc  sur  lui- 
meme  cette  radicale  si  pronipte  et  si 
merveilleuse  transformation  est  un 
peuplc  qui  nicritc  le  respect  et  I'ad- 
niiration  des  vicux  civiliscb."  —  M.  Cli. 
(le    Halden.   sous   le  litre   dc  :   les  deux 

l.i 


5IO 


COSMOPOLIS. 


l'illi'5  tic  M.  /iiuhslrom,  doiinc  quclqucs 
notes  sur  un  prccurscur  dii  fciiiinisme 
au  xviiF  sicclc.  —  M.  Ephrcm  Vincent 
consacre  quelques  pages  trop  courtcs  au 
poete  Catalan  Aiij^tl  Giiinura,  dont  on 
vientdc  jouer  a  la  Bodinicre  Terra  Haixa, 
unc  des  ccuvrcs  principalcs. 

KEVIK  TXIVEKSITAIKK,  1 5  Jiitivicr  : 
M.  Th.  Kuysscn  examine  1'Eiisi'if^niiiitnt 
til  la  Morale  an  /.vu c. 

NOUVKLI.K  RkVI  K  IXTKKXATIOXAI.K, 
iv^S  (Uccmbrc :  La  Rivuc  tic  la  I'oli- 
//(///I'  curopcciiui'  est  redigee  par  M. 
Eniilio  Castelar. —  M.  Albert  Lacroix 
continue  la  publication  de  ses  Soiriniirs 
tVitn  Etlitt'tir.  II  cntrctient  ses  Iccteurs 
de  ses  rapjxnls  avec  Geori^e  Sand. 

La  Kkv[k  I)K  l'Akt  Axcikx  et 
MoDKKXK :  M.  I'icrre  Gusinan  decrit 
Ics  All  Ills  tlonii'sliqtit's  ilc  Pomf»a.  —  M. 
Kniile  Michel  ctudie  les  Ptiiihiirs  (U'au 
rativis  tic  M.  Conn  on  an  Mnsaiui. 

Mekcuke  de  France,  jaiivUr :  Bien 
que  fonde  en  1072  le  Mciiitrc  dc  France 
est  dans  sa  forme  actuelle  la  premiere 
en  importance  des**jcunes  revues'*  de 
France  ;  c'est-ii-dire  de  cclles  qui  pre- 
tendent,  a  tort  ou  a  raison,  '*  marcher  en 
tete"  dans  revolution  continuelle  de  la 
Utterature  contemporaine.  Beaucoup 
d'ecrivains  aujourd'hui  celebres  ont  fait 
leurs  premieres  amies  dans  le  Mcrcnrc 
ct  il  mcrite  d'attircr  I'attenlion  de 
tous  ceux  qui  veulcnt  suivre  I'cn- 
scnible  du  mouvcmcnt  litt^raire  en 
France.  11  signalc  Tai-ticlc  de  M. 
Ch;u'lcs    Morice  sur    le    peinlre    bclgc 


Frank  M.  McUlicrs  et  les  Xoiii'caiix 
Ma}>qiu's  de  M.  R^my  de  Cjourmcnt. 
Sous  le  titre  de  Rci'itc  tin  Mois,  la 
dcuxieme  partie  du  fascicule  passe  en 
revue  les  principales  manifestations  in- 
tellectuelles  de  ces  demieres  semaines. 

Kevi  K  Blaxchk,  15  Janvier:  Leiui 
Tolstoi,  Qnesl-ee  '/nc  rArt  ? 

L\  Pm  MK,  i^^  Janvier :  Jean  M«irca>, 
L'llisloirc  de  yean  de  I'ari>>. 

Kkvi  K  N.vn  KisTE,  dcecmbre :  M. 
Louis  Menard  etudie  illclleiiisnic  et  Ic 
Clirislianisine. 

KKVUKS  BELGES. 

k  E  V  r  E  C  J  fex  E  KA  LE,  J  a  iivicr  :  Quel  ques 
vers  de  M.  Ch.  de  Berkeley,  Soiiveitin 
dc  France,  d' Italic  ct  d'Allcma^ue.  — 
/^t*i'//t'  litteraire  trimeslriclU^  de  M. 
Eugene  Gilbert. 

KEVIES  SUISSES. 
Biin.ioTHEyrE  Txiverselle,  Janeicr: 
M.  Maurice  Murel  etudie  Ferdinand 
Lassalle,  d'apres  les  livres  recemment 
parus  sur  lui.  —  M.  Michel  Delines  ana- 
lyse le  recent  voyage  dc  M.  Senkicwia 
dans  I'Afriqne  allcmandc. 

La  Semaixe  Littekaike,  i^^' janvier.- 
yi.  (ieorges  Kenard  decrit  Oxford  a  vol 
d'oisean.  —  1$  Janvier  :  M.  Albert  Bon- 
nard  se  plait  a  opposer  les  dires  de  M. 
Monnnsen.  Thistorien  allemand,  et  cxux 
de  M.  Jagic,  le  profcsscur  slave,  sur 
I'avenir  des  deux  races  qui  se  i>artagent 
I'cmpirc  autrichicn. 


Directcni  :  F.  OkiMA.^8. 


SUNDENFALL. 

EINK   ALT-WIKXEK  GKSCIIICHTE. 


iM  Palais  T.  .  •  .  fand  eine  grosse  Abendgesellschaft  statt. 
Fast  eine  Stunde  schon  hatte  ich  mich  in  dem  bunten 
Menschengewirre,  das  sich  in  den  strahlenden  Raunien 
immer  dichter  ansammelte,  bin  und  her  geschoben,  ohne 
auf  Jemanden  zu  stossen,  der  mich  zu  einem  liingeren 
Gesprach  angeregt  oder  gefesselt  hatte.  Die  Schuld  mochte 
allerdings  an  mir  selbst  liegen.  Schon  tagsuber  nichtganz  wol, 
fuhlte  ich  mich  jetzt  vorzeitig  ermiidet  und  abgespannt.  Da 
ich  aber  nicht  geradezu  verschwinden  woUte,  so  beschloss 
ich,  einstweilen  ein  entfernteres  Nebenzimmer  aufzusuchen, 
das  eigentHch  nur  die  Intimen  des  Hauses  kannten  und 
wohin  sich  bis  jetzt  gewiss  noch  Niemand  verirrt  hatte.  Es 
war  ein  massig  grosses  Gemach  mit  einem  ausspringenden 
Erker.  An  den  Wanden  zogen  sich  schon  geschnitzte 
Regale  hin,  die  eine  gewahlte  Handbibliothek  enthielten ; 
auf  einem  runden  Tisch  fand  man  Journale  und  Revuen 
aller  Art ;  auch  an  tiefen  Lesestiihlen  und  bequemen 
Etablissements  fiir  Rancher  fehlte  es  nicht.  In  diesem 
traulichen  Raum  wurde  nach  kleinen  Diners  gewohnlich 
der  Kaflfee  gereicht;  im  iibrigen  gait  er  als  eine  Art  Refugium, 
wo  man  sich  jederzeit  eine  Cigarette  anziinden,  ein  Buch 
zur  Hand  nehmen  —  oder  auch  ungestort  ein  Schlafchen 
machen  konnte. 

Wie  vorausgesetzt,  fand  ich  das  Zimmcr,  das  von  einer 
grossen,  griinbeschirmten  Hangelampe  sanft  erhellt  wurde, 
noch  unbesucht  und  schritt  sofort  auf  meinen  gewohntcn 
Fauteuil  zu,  dessen  Lehne  gegen  das  Licht  gekehrt  war. 
Plotzlich  aber  tauchte  hinter  dieser  Lehne  ein  kahler  Scheitel 


512  COSMOPOLIS. 

auf,  unci  cliis  scharf  geschnittene  Antlitz  eincs  Mannes  wendetc 
sich  mir  entgegen,  der  zu  den  geistvollsten  Personlichkeiten 
Wiens  gehorte. 

Schon  in  jungen  Jahren  als  Publizist  aufgetreten,  hatte  er 
sich  spater  der  Regirung  zur  Verfugung  gestellt  und  es  mit 
der  Zeit  bei  der  Pressleitung  zum  wirklichen  Hofrat  gebracht. 
Aber  diese  Errungenschaft  (so  wie  eine  Reihe  von  Orden, 
die  er  als  geschmackvoller  Mann  niemals  trug)  konnte  ihn 
selbst  nicht  ganz  mit  dem  Zwiespaltigen  seiner  Stellung 
aussohncn.  Ueber  den  Vorwurf  der  Gesinnungslosigkeit,  den 
so  mancher  gegen  ihn  erhob,  setzte  er  sich  zwar  mit  souveranem 
Hochmut  hinweg  ;  aber  die  niehr  oder  minder  verschleierte 
Missachtung,  rait  der  unabhiingig  gebliebene  Collegen  diesem 
anderen  Gentz  begegneten,  wurmte  ihn  im  Stillen  um  so 
liefer,  als  er  sich  den  meisten  von  ihnen  geistig  weit  uberlegcn 
fi'ihlte.  Im  iibrigen  war  er  ein  vollendeter  Weltmann  und 
erfahrener  Lebenskiinstler,  der  noch  im  spiiteren  Alter  als 
Freund  schoner  Krauen  gait.  In  der  Gesellschaft  riss  man 
sich  formlich  um  ihn.  Er  konnte  ja  auch,  wenn  er  wollte, 
hochst  iiebenswi'irdig  sein,  und  in  kleinerem  Kreise  bezauberte 
er  Jedermann  durch  seine  blendenden  Einfalle,  seinen  funkeln- 
den  Witz.  F'reilich  sass  er  auch  oft  gerade  dann,  wenn  man  ein 
lebhaftes  Spriihfeuer  seines  Geistes  erwartete,  verdrossen  und 
in  sich  versunken  da  oder  erging  sich  in  trocken  sarkastischen 
Bemerkungen  (iber  die  Anwesenden.  Er  war  eben  Launen 
und  Stimmungen  unterworfen  —  wie  alie  Menschen,  die  mit 
sich  selbst  nicht  ins  Reine  gelangen  konnen. 

"Ah,  Sie  sind  da!"  sagte  er,  mir  die  Hand  reichend. 
"  Haben  sich  also  auch  hieher  gefliichtet  ?     Und  nun  linden 

Sie   Ihren   Sorgenstuhl   besetzt.      Aber   warten   Sie "     Er 

machte  Miene,  sich  zu  erheben. 

**  Bleiben  Sie  doch,  Herr  Hofrat,"  erwiderte  ich,  und  zog 
einen  leichten  Rohrschaukelstuhl  heran.  "Wenn  Sie  erlauben, 
ruck'  ich  in  Ihre  Nahe." 

"  Um  zu  Zweien  einsam  zu  sein  ?  Ganz  vortrefflich. 
Zwischen  den  besternten  und  unbesternten  Fracken,  den 
bekannten  entblossten  Schultern  und  mehr  oder  minder 
vorquellenden  Busen  ist  es  ja  wirklich  nicht  auszuhalten. 
Und  doch  geht  man  immer  wieder  in  Gesellschaft." 


sOndenfall.  513 


"  Mein  Gott,  man  muss  eben 


;i 


"Man  muss  eben  nicht.  Man  brauchte  nur  abzusagen. 
Aber  dazu  gehort  ein  Mut,  den  der  civilisirte  Mensch  nicht 
aufbringt, —  obgleich  er  sich  von  Saison  zu  Saison  vornimmt, 
keine  Einladungen  anzunehmen  und  zu  Hause  zu  bleiben. 
So  geht  csdenn  mit  Grazie  fort,  bis  endlich  der  Sensenmann 
sein  Veto  einlegt/' 

Ich  bemerkte  jetzt,  dass  er  ein  aufgeschlagenes  Buch  neben 
sich  hatte.     "  Sie  haben  gelesen  ?  "  fragte  ich. 

"  Ja  ;  ich  habe  auf  gut  Gliick  zugelangt  und  cinen  priich- 
tigen  Griff  getan.  Etwas,  das  ich  schon  lange  nicht  mehr  in 
der  Hand  gehabt :  Turgenjews  Friihlingsfluten." 

"  Allerdings  nichts  Neues." 

"Aber  desto  Besseres.      Oder  gehoren  Sie  vielleicht  auch 
zu  Denen,  die  diesen  grossen  Schriftsteller  — wie  mir  unlangst 
ein  russischer  Botschaftsrat  sehr  nachdrucklich  versicherte  - 
bereits  iiberwunden   und    durch    den   Grafen   Tolstoj    in   die 
zweite  Linie  geriickt  erachten  ?  " 

"  Keineswegs.  Und  gerade  der  Roman  ist  ein  Meister- 
werk/* 

"  Gewiss.  Aber  wer  liest  ihn  noch  heute  ?  Daran  lasst 
sich  so  recht  der  Wechsel  des  Zeitgeschmackes  und  die 
VergangHchkeit  des  Htterarischen  Ruhmes  erkennen.  Vor 
ungefjihr  zwanzig  Jahren  konnte  man  keine  Zeitung  zur  Hand 
nehmen,  keinen  Salon  betreten,  ohne  sofort  an  Turgenjew, 
dessen  Lob  in  alien  Tonarten  gesungen  wurde,  erinnert  zu 
werden.  Man  schlug  mit  ihm  die  Anderen  tot,  wie  heut- 
zutage  mit  Zola  und  Ibsen.  Freilich  fehlte  es  auch  schon 
damals  nicht  an  Kritikern,  die  ihm  am  Zeuge  flickten.  Er  war 
ihnen  zu  "weich,"  und  sie  fanden  es  tadelnswert,  dass  er 
bestandig  nur  die  "  Schwilche  "  schildere.  Dabei  warfen  sie 
sich  in  die  Brust,  um  anzudeuten,  wie  "stark"  sie  selbst 
waren.  Es  geht  doch  nichts  iiber  das  Gluck  der  Einbildung  I 
Aber  auch  sonst  hat  mich  das  Buch  ganz  traurig  gestimmt. 
Ich  bin  namlich  durch  diese  Fruhlingsfluten  in  meine  eigene 
Vergangenheit  zuriickgesch wommen  ,*' 

"Wie  weit,  wenn  man  fragen  darf  ?"  entgegnete  ich  etwas 
spottisch  ;  denn  derlei  sentimentale  Anwandlungcn  wider- 
sprachen  seinem  Wesen. 


514  COSMOPOLIS, 

"Ziemlich  weit  — bis  zu  meinem  crsten  Siindenfall.  Und 
da  ich  keine  Dame  bin,  so  kann  ich  auch  bekennen,  dass  er 
sich  bei  inir  sehr  friih  ereignet  hat." 

"  Das  liesse  sich  horen.  Wie  war'  es,  wenn  Sie  selbst  einmal 
zur  belletristischen  Feder  griffen  ?" 

"  Das  werd'  ich  wol  bleiben  lassen.  In  meinen  Jahren 
pfuscht  man  Niemandem  mehr  ins  Handwerk.  Es  ware  nur 
Wasser  aiif  die  Miihle  wolwollender  Freunde.  Aber  wenn 
Sie  wunschen,  erzahl'  ich  Ihnen  alles,  damit  Sie  sehen,  dass 
auch  frivole  Menschen  von  ernsten  Erinnerungen  ergriffen 
werden  konnen."  Er  sah  nach  der  Uhr.  "Es  ist  jetzt  kauin 
Elf.  •  In  einem  halben  Stiindchen  bin  ich  zu  Ende,  Dann 
sturzen  wir  uns  gemeinsam  wieder  in  das  Meer  der  Langen- 
weile,  das  da  drinnen  wogt." 

In  diesem  Augenblick  drangen  gedampfte  Geigenklange  zu 
uns  heriiber. 

''Ah,  der  bogenfiihrende  Knabe!"  rief  eraus.  "Den  wollen 
wir  uns  aus  der  Entfernung  noch  anhoren.  Wir  haben  da 
gleich  das  schonsle  Prahidium  zu  meiner  Geschichte." 

Wir  lehnten  uns  in  den  Stiihlen  zuriick  und  lauschten  den 
Tonen,  die  immer  mannigfaltiger,  immer  ergreifender 
anschwollen  und  schliesslich  in  einem  Sturm  von  Beifall 
untergingen. 

"  Das  ist  wirklich  cin  kleiner  Prachtkerl  1 "  sagte  er. 
"  Wenn  nur  aus  all  diesen  Wunderkindern  ein  neuer  Mozart 
hervorginge  !  Aber  das  versinkt  regelmiissig  im  Virtuosentum. 
— Doch  horen  Sie  :  ein  anderes  Stuck  !" 

Als  es  zu  Ende  gespielt  war,  stand  er  auf.  "  Nun  sei's 
genug  1  Es  wird  sich  jetzt  hochst  wahrscheinlich  der  bekannte 
grosse  Wagner- Pauker — oder  ein  Friiulein  X  ans  Clavier  setzen. 
Diese  Genusse  wollen  wir  uns  schenken." 

Er  zog  die  eichenen  Fliigelturen  zu,  schob  die  schwere 
Sammt-Portidre  vor  und  setzte  sich  wieder.  "  Also  :  Sunden- 
fall,"  sagte  er. 

» 

Ich  befand  mich  in  der  sechsten  Klasse  des  Gymnasiums, 
aus  welcher  man  damals  gleich  an  die  Universitat  kam,  und 
hatte  erst  vor  kurzem  mein  funfzehntes  Lebensjahr  erreicht. 
Aber  ich  war  ein  fruh  entwickelter  Knabe,  der  vaterliche  Zucht 


SUN  DEN  FALL.  515 

niemals  kennen  gelernt.  Denn  ich  stand  iinter  der  Obhiit 
einer  nach  spjiter  iind  kurzer  Ehe  Witwe  gewordcnen  Mutter, 
die  ihr  einziges,  abgottisch  geliebtes  Kind  ohne  sonderliclio 
Ermahnungen  gewahren  Hess,  uberzeugt,  dass  AUes,  was  es  tat 
Oder  nicht  tat,  wol  getan  und  wol  unterlassen  sei.  So 
ging  ich  schon  vorzeitig  meine  eigenen  Wege,  die  mich  aiich 
bald  genug  auf  Abwege  fiihrten.  Ich  geriet  namlich  in 
die  Gesellschaft  der  "Grossen."  Sic  wurden  in  der  Klasse 
so  genannt,  weil  sie  um  Einiges  alter  waren  als  ihre 
Mitschuler  und  sich  bereits  auf  die  vollig  Erwachsenen 
hinausspielten,  wobei  sie  es,  so  weit  dies  hinter  dem  Riicken 
der  Schule  anging,  an  allerlei  Ausschreitungen  nicht  fehlen 
liessen.  Unter  ihnen  ragte  um  Haupteslange  ein  gewisser 
Thorns  hervor,  ein  sittenloser,  verwilderter  Bursche,  dem 
schon  ein  rotlicher  Krausbart  um  Kinn  und  Wangen  sprosste. 
Er  war  in  fruheren  Jahrgiingen  zuriickgeblieben,  hatte  den 
funften  wiederholen  miissen,  und  auch  jetzt  schlug  er  sich  nur 
zur  Not  durch.  Aber  sein  selbstbewusstes,  oft  freches  Auf- 
treten  imponirte  nicht  bloss  den  CoUegen,  sondern  auch  den 
Professoren,  die,  um  nicht  gegen  ihn  einschreiten  zu  miissen, 
liber  sein  Unwesen  hinweg  sahen.  So  hatte  er  sich  bald  zum 
Senior  eines  kleinen  Kreises  aufgeworfen,  der  sich  an 
bestimmten  Nachmittagen  in  einem  wenig  besuchten  Kaffee- 
hause  vor  der  Hernalser  Linie  versammelte.  Dort  wurde 
geraucht,  Billard  und  Karten  gespielt, —  und  spater  begab  man 
sich  in  eine  nahegelegene  Schenke,  deren  Wirt,  auf  un- 
lauteren  Vorteil  bedacht,  den  jugendlichen  Gasten  ein  abgeson- 
dertes  Zimmerchen  zur  Verfiigung  stellte.  Da  wurde  nun 
unter  Absingung  von  Studentenliedern — die  Miirzereignissedes 
kommenden  Jahres  lagen  schon  in  der  Luft  —  eine  Kneipe 
abgehalten,  welche  jedoch  keineswegs  commentgemass  verlief, 
sondern  meistens  in  eine  ziigellose  Kneiperei  ausartete.  Halten 
doch  einige  von  den  Spiessgesellen  bereits  Liebschaften  mit 
iibelgehuteten  Madchen  niederen  Standes  angekniipft,  die  nicht 
saltan  an  dan  Gelagen  teilnahmen.  In  dieses  wiiste  Treiben 
war  ich  also  hineingeraten,  weniger  aus  Neigung  als 
vialmahr  durch  knabenhafte  Eitelkeit,  die  sich  geschmeichelt 
fuhlte,  dass  mich  die  ''Grossen"  als  Fuchs  in  ihre  Verbindung 
anfnchmen    woUtcn,     Ich   hatte    daher    auch    bald   erkannt, 


Sl6  COSMOPOLIS. 

wie  sehr  diese  meinem  ganzen  Wesen  gegen  den  Strich  ging. 
Denn  trotz  meiner  Selbstandigkeit  und  mancher  verfruhten 
Regung,  war  ich  doch  noch  eine  kindliche,  iinverdorbene 
Xatur,  die  eigentlich  zur  Einsamkeit  neigte.  Ich  sass  am 
liehsten  i'll^r  Biichern — freilich  niclit  fiber  Schulbuchern  — , 
iind  die  Rouiane,  die  ich  stossweise  verschlang  —  damals  war, 
nebeii  Sue  und  Dinnas,  Buhver  in  der  Mode — crfullten  mich 
mil  phantastischen  Tranmen  und  schwarmerischen  Empfin- 
dungen,  welche  in  jenem  Kreise  keinen  Anklang  fanden.  So 
steigerle  sich  die  IJnUist,  mit  der  ich  an  den  Zusammenkunften 
teihiahm,  von  Woche  zu  Woche.  Die  Kneipe,  die  sich  zum 
Entselzen  meiner  guten  Mutter  zuweilen  bis  spat  in  die  Nacht 
hinein  ausdehnte,  war  mir  mit  ihren  Alkoholdunsten  und  dem 
stickenden  Tabaksquahn  ganz  Ixjsonders  zuwider  ;  die  weib- 
Uchen  Gaste  aber,  wenn  solche  kamen,  stiessen  mich  umso 
mehr  ab,  als  auch  ihre  aussere  Erscheinung  keine  sehr 
bestrickende  war.  Ich  bHeb  daher,  so  oft  es  nur  anging,  unler 
allerlci  Vorwan4en  weg.  Mich  volhg  loszumachen,  vermochle 
ich  nicht  mehr  —  schon  jenes  Thoms  wegen,  der  mich  in 
seiner  herrischen  Art  in  Affection  genommen  hatte.  Er 
wusste  mich  namlich  im  Besitz  eines  nicht  ganz  unbetracht- 
Uchen  Taschengeldes,  das  er  sich  bei  der  bestandigen  Ebbe 
in  seinem  Beutel  gelegentlich  zu  Nutze  machte.  EndHch  aber 
schien  eine  erlosende  Wendung  eintreten  zu  wollen. 

Unter  unseren  Mitschiilern  war  auch  einer,  der  Grewe 
hiess — Fritz  Grewe.  Ein  zarter,  in  korperhchem  Wachstum 
zuriickgebhebener  Knabe,  mit  feinen,  gleichsam  eingetrock- 
neten  Gesichtsziigen,  die  ihm  zuweilen  ein  greisenhaftes 
Aussehen  verHehen.  Man  nannte  ihn  den  kleinen  Doctor 
Luther,  denn  er  stammte  aus  einer  Mischehe  und  war  wie  sein 
Vater — ein  nicht  allzuhoher  Beamter,  der  fruher  in  der  Provinz 
Verwendung  gefunden  hatte — Protestant.  Dieser  Knabe,  der 
erst  im  laufenden  Semester  eingetreten  und  mein  nachster 
Nachbar  auf  der  Schulbank  war,  brachte  mir  eine  schwarme- 
rische  Neigung  entgegen,  wie  sie  in  solchem  Alter  vorzukommen 
pflegt,  die  er  jedoch  weniger  mit  Worten  als  in  Blicken  und 
Geberden,  sowie  durch  allerlei  mit  zartlicher  Unterwiirfigkeit 
erwiesene  Aufmerksamkeiten  offenbarte.  Ich  aber  fuhlte 
mich    zu    ihm    nicht    liingezogen,    bezcigte    mich    kuhl    und 


SCXDENFALL.  517 

j^leichgiltig — ja,  ich  schloss  mich  ihm,  obwol  wir  Beide  in  der 
nahen  Alservorstadt  wohnten,  nicht  einmal  auf  deni  Heimweg 
aus  der  Schule  an,  bis  er  mich  endlich  eines  Tages,  seine 
Schuchternheit  uberwindend,  flehentlich  dariim  bat,  weil  er 
sich  furchte,  allein  nach  Hause  zii  gehen. 

Es  gab  damals  noch  keinen  Antisemitismiis  ;  unsere 
jiidischen  Collegen  sassen  vielmehr  als  die  Begabtesten  und 
Fleissigsten  ganz  unbehelligt  in  den  vordersten  Banken.  Mit 
den  Protestanten  aber  kam  es  bisweilen  zu  Zwistigkeiten. 
Besonders  in  den  unteren  Klassen,  wo  man  uberhaupt  noch 
gerne  handgemein  wurde.  suchte  man  Handel  mit  ihnen,  die 
nicht  selten  in  arge  Schlagereien — ja,  zu  kleinen  Schlachten 
auf  der  Schotten-  und  Molkerbastei  ausarteten.  Aber  die 
"  EvangeUschen "  waren  schneidige  und  gewitzte  Burschen, 
die  sich  trotz  ihrer  Minderzahl  wol  zu  verteidigen  wussten, 
und  die  kathoHsche  Partei  erlitt  nicht  seUen  eine  vollstandige 
Niederlage,  was  ihren  Ingrimm  begreiflicherweise  nur  noch 
steigerte.  In  der  Funften  und  Sechsten  horten  diese  Kiimpfe 
allerdings  auf,  und  somit  hatte  Grewe  von  seiner  nachsten 
Umgebung  nichts  zu  besorgen.  Aber  zwei  kleine  rauflustigc 
Schlingel  aus  der  Dritten  waren  ihm,  wie  er  sagte,  gestern  ein 
Stuck  Weges  herausf  order  nd  nachgegangen  und  hatten 
endlich  mit  Angriifen  begonnen^  denen  er  sich  nur  durch  die 
Flucht  entziehen  konnte.  Ich  mochte  ihn  also  jetjt,  da  er 
Wiederholungen  furchte,  in  meinen  Schutz  nehmen — was  ich 
naturlich  gnadigst  bewilligte.  So  war  denn  das  Eis  gebrochen, 
und  von  nun  ab  kam  ich  ihm  auch  innerlich  naher.  Denn  er 
erwies  sich  in  der  Tat  als  ungemein  liebenswiirdiger,  gut 
gearteter  Junge,  den  ich  freilich  noch  immer  mit  einer 
gewissen  zuruckhaltenden  Ueberlegenheit  behandelte. 

Als  wir  eines  Nachmittags  wieder  gemeinsam  iiber  die 
wuste  Flache  schritten,  auf  der  sich  spater  die  Votivkirche 
erheben  sollte,  sah  er  mich  zuweilen  mit  verschamter 
Eindringlichkeit  von  der  Seite  an  ;  er  wollte  mir  oflFenbar 
Etwas  mitteilen,  das  er  auf  dem  Herzen  hatte.  Schon  den 
ganzen  Weg  iiber  war  er  von  schweigsamer  Nachdenklich- 
keit  gewesen  ;  jetzt  aber,  da  wir  uns  schon  dem  weitlaufigen 
"  Roten  Hause"  naherten,  wo  er  wohnte,  sagte  er  plotzlich 
nach  einem  merkbaren  Kampfe  mit  sich  selbst  und  iiber  das 


5l8  COSMOPOLIS. 

j^anzc    vertrocknete   Gesichtchen   crrotend  :   '*  Ich  hatte  eine 
Bitte  an  dich." 

"  Nun,  welchc  dcnn,  mein  lieber  Grewc  ?" 

Er  selling  die  Augen  nieder  und  errotete  noch  starker. 
"  Morgen  ist  mein  Geburtstag.  Da  findet  bei  mir  zu  Hause 
ein  kleines  Fest  statt,  zu  welchem  einige  Verwandte  und  Be- 
kannte  mit  ihren  Kindern  geladen  sind.  Bei  dieser  Gelegen- 
heit  mochte  ich  mich  mit  einem  Schattenspiel-Theater 
produciren,  das  ich  mir  eigenhandig  zurecht  gemacht.  Als 
Stuck  habe  ich  den  Wilhehn  Tell  von  Schiller  genommen  ; 
freilich  ganz  zusammengedrangt,  in  aller  Kurze.  Und  zum 
Schlusse  etwas  Lustiges  von  eigener  Erfindung.  Ich  habe 
auch  alle  Figuren  selbst  entworfen  und  ausgeschnitten.  Es 
ware  die  grosste  Freude  fur  mich,  wenn  du  zu  uns  kommen 
und  zuschauen  wolltest/' 

"  Nun,  wenn  dir  das  vvirklich  so  erwunscht  ist " 

"Und  dann  —  meine  Eltern  mochten  dich  gerne  kennen 
lernen.  Sie  wissen,  wic  lieb  ich  dich  habe  —  und  dass  clu 
jctzt  immer  mit  mir  nach  Hause  gehst.  Auch  meine  Schwesler 
mochte  dich  einmal  sehen." 

*'  Deine  Schwester  ?  " 

''Ja.  Sie  ist  jiinger  als  ich  —  erst  dreizehn  Jahre.  Aber 
schon  viel  grosser,  weil  ich  gar  so  zuruckgeblieben  bin.  Dn 
wirst  finden,  dass  sie  ein  liebes,  gutes  Madchen  ist." 

'*  Daran  zweifle  ich  nicht.     Wie  heisst  sie  denn  ?  " 

"  Seraphine.*' 

"  Ein  hiibscher  Name.  Nun,  ich  werde  jedenfalls  kom- 
men." 

'*  Ich  danke  dir!"  sagte  er,  lebhaft  meine  Hand  ergreifend. 
"Um  vier  Uhr  Nachmittags  erwarten  wir  dich.  Wir  fangen 
friih  an,  damit  wir  Zeit  vor  uns  haben.  Und  merke  dir: 
zweiter  Hof,  erste  Stiege,  erster  Stock."  Damit  enteilte  er 
und  verschwand  in  einem  der  vielen  Thore  des  Roten 
Hauses. 

Ich  aber  hatte  sofort  Ursache,  mein  gegebenes  Versprechen 
als  ein  unuberlegtes  zu  empfinden.  Denn  morgan  war  Sonntag, 
und  da  pflegte  ich  den  Nachmittag  bei  einer  Cousine  meines 
verstorbenen  Vaters  zuzubringen.  Etwas  fdter  als  meine 
Mutter,  bcsass  sie  schon  eine  heiratsfahige  Tochtcr,  die  sich 


sOndenfall.  519 

aber  keineswegs  durch  Schonheit  imd  Anmiit  auszeichnete. 
Sie  war  vielmehr  eine  schmalbrustige,  siiuerliche  Jungfrau,  die 
mich  mit  spottischer  Scharfe  so  recht  als  Knaben  behandelte 
iind  mir  mit  ihren  di'mnen  Lippen  Sittenpredigten  hielt.  Die 
Mama  war  eine  sogenannt  "praktische"  Fran,  die  immcr 
alles  besser  wusste  und  sich  selbst  als  nachahmungswurdiges 
Muster  hinstellte.  In  ihrer  Sucht,  zu  tadeln  und  zu  norgeln, 
mischte  sie  sich  in  unsere  liauslichen  Angelegenheiten  und 
Vermogensverhiiltnisse,  wodurch  sie  meiner  Mutter  oft  recht 
beschwerUch  fiel.  Da  sie  jedoch,  wie  die  meisten  ihrer  Art, 
im  Grunde  auch  teilnehmend  und  zur  Hilfe  bereit  war,  so 
hatte  sie  uns  einmal  einen  wirkHch  betrachtHchen  Dienst 
erwiesen,  fiir  welchen  sich  meine  Mutter  an  Dank  nie  genug 
tun  konnte.  Daher  besuchte  sie  auch  unverbriichHch  die 
durftigen  jours  fixes  der  Dame,  zu  denen  sich  stets  ein  Herr 
Doctor  Wittenberg  einfand,  der  als  platonischer  Verehrer  der 
Hausfrau  gait.  Welcher  Fakultat  er  eigentlich  angehorte, 
war  nicht  recht  herauszubringen,  da  er  sich  heute  als  Medi- 
ziner  und  morgen  als  Philologe  geberdete.  Er  liebte  es,  mich 
mit  seiner  schnarrenden  Stimme  ins  Examen  zu  nehmen,  um 
sich  von  meinem  Fortgang  in  der  Schule  zu  iiberzeugen. 
Ausser  ihm  pflegte  sich  noch  eine  dicke  Majorsgattin  ein- 
zufinden,  die  von  ihrem  Manne  in  geheimnisvoller  Weise 
getrennt  lebte.  Dann  ging  es  an  eine  sehr  ernsthafte  Whist- 
part  ie,  wah  rend  ich  mit  meinem  Baschen  an'feinem  Seitentische 
sass  und  das  Vergniigen  hatte,  ihr  beim  Garnabwickehi 
behilflich  zu  sein  ;  manchmal  gab  sie  mir  sogar  Seidenfleck- 
chen  zu  zupfen.  So  verliefen  diese  Abende  fiir  mich  in  der 
todlichsten  Langenweile  und  schlossen  mit  einem  wasserigen 
Thee,  bei  welchem  alles  so  knapp  angetragen  war,  dass  ich  zu 
Hause  immer  nachessen  musste.  Dennoch  ging  auch  ich 
gewissenhaft  hin,  denn  mein  Wegbleiben  wiirde  sehr  iibel 
vermerkt  worden  sein,  und  meine  Mutter  hatte  nur  wiedcr 
Vorwurfe  zu  horen  bekommen,  dass  sie  ihren  leichtfertigen 
Jungen,  der  ohnehin  schon  sehr  bedenkHch  i'lber  den  Strang 
schlage,  allein  in  der  Welt  herumlaufen  lasse.  Diesmal  aber 
musste  ich  doch  mit  der  vollen  Wahrheit  entschuldigt  werden, 
dass  ich  zum  Geburtsfeste  eines  Mitschiilers  geladen  sei. 

Am  nachsten  Tage  begab  ich  mich  also  urn  vier  Uhr  in  das 


520  COSMOPOLIS. 

Rote  Haus.  Die  Wohnung  hatte  ich  bald  aufgefunden  und 
trat,  von  Vviiz  schon  auf  dem  Corridor  erwartet,  in  ein 
schlichtes,  aber  belles  und  sorgfaltig  gehaltenes  Zimmer,  wo 
neben  mehreren  Erwachsenen  eine  kleine  Schar  von  Knaben 
und  Madchen  versammelt  war.  Fritz  fuhrte  mich  gleich 
seiner  Mutter  zu,  in  deren  Antlitz  ich  die  Zuge  des  Sohnes 
wiederfand.  Der  Vater  war  eine  stattliche  Erscheinung, 
bebrillt,  glatt  rasirt  ;  sein  auflfallend  dichtes  Haar  zeigte  sich 
nn  den  Schliifen  schon  ergraut.  Man  empfing  mich  sehr 
freundlich, —  und  nun  trat  aus  der  Kindergruppe  ein  Madchen 
hcran.     "  Meine  Schwester/'  sagte  Fritz. 

Denken  Sie  sich  eine  fur  ihr  Alter  ziemlich  hohe  Gestalt. 
Schlanky  etwas  eckig,  in  einem  lichten  Merinokleidchen,  das 
bis  uber  die  Kniee  reichte.  Schmucke  weisse  Hoschen  mit 
Spitzenbesatz  —  die  jungen  Fraulein  mahnten  zu  jener  Zeit 
noch  nicht  an  Ballettanzerinner.  —und  Schuhe  mit  Kreuzban- 
dern.  Das  eigentiimlich  mattblonde  Haar,  nach  einer  da- 
nialigen  Kindermode  a  la  chinoise  emporgekammt,  liess  die 
sanft  geschwungene  Stirn  vollig  frei ;  grosse,dunkel  bewimperte 
Augen  schimmerten  fast  farblos  hell.  Der  zarte  Mund  nicht 
allzu  rot  —  und  um  das  lilienweisse  Halschen  schlang  sich  ein 
fein  gegliedertes  Goldkettchen.  Ich  senkte  wie  geblendet 
den  Blick,  wahrend  ich  fine  hochst  linkische  stumme  Verbeu- 
gung  unternahm.  Sie  aber  machte  lachelnd  einen  sehr 
graziosen  Knix,  sagte  jedoch  auch  nichts. 

Jetzt  wurden  wir  an  den  Kaffeetisch  gewiesen,  der,  mit  Kuchen 
und  allerlei  Sussigkeiten  beladen,  schon  bereit  stand.  Obgleich 
man  dicht  gedrangt  Platz  genommen  hatte,  gab  es  doch  nicht 
Raum  fiir  AUe,  imd  einige  von  den  Kleinsten  mussten  sich  an 
einem  sogenannten  Katzentischchen  behelfen,  wo  Seraphine 
mit  anmutiger  Fiirsorge  die  Wirtin  machte.  Unter  den 
Kindern,  die  gleich  mir  bei  den  Erwachsenen  sassen,  befand 
sich  auch  ein  etwa  zwolfjahriges  Madchen,  das  durch 
anspruchsvolle  Hasslichkeit  auffiel.  Eine  plumpe,  gestauchte 
Figur,  die  mehr  in  die  Breite  als  in  die  Langeging;  dabei 
ein  Kopf,  der  durch  eine  geki'mstelte,  bestiindig  geschut- 
telte  Lockenfiille  nur  noch  unformlicher  erschien.  Gleich 
beim  ersten  Anblick  hatte  ich  eine  Art  Widerwillen  gegen  die 
kleine  Person  empfunden,  die  auch  mich,  wie  derlei  meistens 


SUNDENFALL.  521 

gegenseitig    ist,    nicht    gerade     wolwollcnd     zii     betrachten 
schien. 

Es  war  im  November,  und  so  brach  auch  schon,  wiihrend 
man  den  Kaffee  nahm  und  das  Backwerk  aufzehrte,  die 
Dammerung  herein.  Nun  aber  erhob  sich  Fritz  und  offnete  die 
Tiir  des  Nebenzimmers,  in  das  er  die  Anwesenden  zu  treten 
bat.  Drinnen  waren  die  Fenster  verhiillt,  und  man  sah  in 
unsicheren  Umrissen  das  Schattenspiel  -  Theater  stehen, 
hinter  welchem  der  kleine  Mann  durch  einen  Seitenvorhang 
verschwand.  Die  Anderen  aber  nahmen  auf  einigen 
Sesselreih6n  Platz  ;  ganz  vornc  die  Kleinsten,  hinter  ihnen  die 
Grosseren  und  Grossen. 

Jetzt  ertonte  eine  Klingel,  der  Vorhang  ging  empor  und 
enthiilltedie  lichtdurchstrahlte  Lein\vand,auf  welcher  nunmehr, 
sehr  hiibsch  und  charakteristisch  entworfen,  aHmahlich  fast 
sammtliche  Personen  des  Schillerschen  Dramas  erschienen.  Sie 
sprachen  in  kurzeren  oder  langeren  Monologen  und  Dialogen, 
wobei  Fritz  seine  Stimme  abwechslungsvoll  vertiefte  und 
erhohte.  Dramatisches  Leben — der  Riitlischwur  blieb  als  zu 
umstandlich  weg — kam  in  das  Ganze  erst  mit  dem  auf  die  Stange 
gesteckten  Hut,  welchem  einige  hochst  bewegliche  Figuren 
wirklich  Reverenz  bewiesen  ;  auch  Leuthold  und  Friesshardt 
hielten  sich  sehr  wacker.  Sensation  aber  machte  die  grosse 
Scene  mit  dem  Apfelschuss.  Der  Landvogt  und  sein  Begleiter 
sassen  auf  sehr  hohen  Rossen, —  und  man  sah  (worauf  Fritz 
noch  nachtragHch  stolz  war)  den  Pfeil  Tells  tatsachlich  durch 
die  Luft  fliegen  und  den  Apfel  vom  Kopfe  des  Knaben  Walther 
fallen.  Mit  diesem  Hohepunkt,  der  stiirmisch  beklatscht 
wurde,  schloss  das  Stiick.  Nun  folgte  eine  komische  Pantomime 
mit  allerlei  grotesken  Caricaturen  ;  schliesslich  erschien  eine 
Anzahl  von  Teufeln,  Kobolden  und  Hexen,  die  zu  allgemeiner 
Heiterkeit  einen  verw^orrenen  Tanz  auffiihrten.  Man  applau- 
dirte,  rief  den  Schauspieldirector,  der  endlich  aus  seinem 
Versteck  hervortrat  und  sich  mit  vielem  Anstand  verneigte. 
Alles  umringte  ihn  mit  Worten  der  Anerkennung,  nur  die 
kleine  Person  mit  dem  Lockenkopfe  sagte  nichts.  Sie  hatte 
auch  schon  fruher  keine  Hand  geruhrt,  und  man  sah  ihr  an, 
dass  ihr  das  Ganze  zu  "  dumm  "  vorgekommen  war. 

Man  begab  sich  hierauf  in  den  friiheren,  jetzt  wol  beleuch- 


522  COSMOPOLIS. 

Icten  Kauni  zuri'ick,  und  kleine  artige  Gesellschaftsspiele,  die 
von  P'ritz  und  seiner  Schwester  angegeben  und  geleitet  wurden, 
kamcn  bei  der  Jugend  an  die  Reihe.  Sie  verliefen  sehr 
ergotzlich,  wenn  audi  bin  und  wieder  becintrachtigt  durch  die 
Stoirigkeit  dcs  Lockcnkopfes,  der  sich  dieser  oder  jener 
Anordnung,  die  das  Spiel  mit  sicb  brachte,  nicht  fiigen  wollte. 
Schliesslicb  ginges  an  das  Auslosen  von  Pfilndern.  Die  Knaben 
batten  dabei  einem  voin  Zufall  bestimmten  Madcben  die  Hand 
zu  kiissen.  Mit  freudigem  Bangen  sab  icb  meinem  Schicksal 
entgegen,  hoffend,  dass  es  micb  Serapliinen  zufiihren  werde. 
Aber  eine  tiickiscbe  Fi'igung  bestimmte  mir  die  widerliche 
Kleine,  welche  sicb  jedoch  mit  trotziger  Miene  weigerte,  mir 
ibre  Hand  darzureicben.  **  Sei  docb  nicbt  so  kindisch  !  "  rief 
ibr  Serapbine  in  verweisendem  Tone  zu.  "  Icb  bin  gar  nicht 
kindiscb/*  erwiderte  die  andere,  *'  aber  icb  mag  nicht ! " 
Uamit  drebte  sie  mir  den  Kiicken.  Serapbine  erblasste  leicbt ; 
daim  streckte  sie  mir  mit  einem  Blicke,  der  gleicbsam  fur  diese 
Unart  um  Verzeibung  bat,  langsam  ibre  Hand  entgegen,  auf  die 
icb  in  seliger  Verwirrung  einen  Kuss  baucbte. 

In  diesem  Augenblick  rief  man  zum  Abendmabi,  das  im 
Nebenzimmer,  wo  inzwiscben  das  Tbeater  fortgeschafFt  und 
ein  langer  Tiscb  gedeckt  worden  war,  stattfand.  Fritz  hatte 
sicb  Zweierlei  ausgebeten,  Erstens  :  dass  ieb  an  seiner  Seite 
sitze— und  zweitens  :  Backbiibner.  Diese  wurden  aufgetragen, 
und  obgleicbsie  eigentlicb  bors  de  saison  waren — oder  vielleicht 
gerade  deswegen  —  fanden  sie  allgemein  beifalligen  Zuspruch. 
Scbliesslicb  entkorkte  Herr  Grew-e  eine  dunkle  Flasche  und 
goss  daraus  scbwerflussigen  siissen  Wein  in  winzige  Stengel- 
gliiscben,  die  vor  jedem  Gedeck  bereitstanden.  Hierauf  wurde 
auf  das  Wol  des  *'  Geburtstages  "  getrunken,  und  die  Glascben 
klirrten  aneinander.  Xun  aber  erbob  sicb  Fritz  und  bielt 
drolligen  Ernstes  ein  wolgesetzte  Rede,  mit  welcber  er  seinen 
geliebten  Eltern,  seiner  Scbwester  und  alien  Anwesenden  fiir 
die  ibn  so  sebr  begliickende,  durcb  das  Erscbeinen  seines 
teueren  Collegen — er  wandte  sicb  bei  diesen  Worten  zu  mir 
bin — verberrlicbte  Feier  dankte.  Damit  war  aucb  plotzHch  die 
Aufmerksamkeit  auf  micb  gelenkt,  und  in  meiner  Verlegenheit 
battc  icb  bald  versaumt,  mit  Serapbine  anzustossen,  die  mir 
iiber  den  Tiscb  eifrig  ibr  Glascben   entgegen bracbte.      Ibre 


StJNDENFALL.  523 

Wangen  hatten  eine  rosige,  ihre  Aiigen  eine  durchsichtig  blaue 
Farbung  angenommen  ;  in  ihren  Haaren  schiinmerten  goldige 
Lichtreflexe.  So  sah  sie  erregt  uiid  gespannt  nach  mir  bin,  als 
ich  mich  endlich  gefasst  hatte  und  jezt  auch  einige  Wortc 
sprach. 

Das  unerbittliche  Gesetz  der  "  Sperrstunde "  machte  dem 
frohlichen  Feste  nur  zii  bald  ein  Ende.  Nachdem  der 
Hausherr  die  Uhr  gezogen  und  feieiiich  erklart  hatte,  dass  es 
halb  Zehn  sei,  erhob  man  sich,  und  unler  allgemeinen 
Verabschiedungen  drilngte  man  in  das  Vorzimmer  nach 
Manteln  und  Huten.  Ich  selbst  zogerte  so  lange  wie  moglich, 
mich  zu  entfernen  :  ich  wollte  noch  einen  Blick  von  Seraphine 
erhaschen,  die  einigen  kleineren  Miidchen  beim  Umnehmen 
der  winterHchen  Hiillen  sorgfaltig  an  die  Hand  ging.  Sie 
schien  darauf  gewartet  zu  haben  und  nickte  mir  aus  der 
Entfernung  einen  liebhchen  Abschiedsgruss  zu. 

Ich  kam  nach  Hause  wie  berauscht.  Meine  Mutter,  diesmal 
von  Doctor  Wittenberg  ritterlich  bis  zum  Thor  begleitet,  war 
fast  gleichzeitig  mit  mir  eingetroffen  und  fragte  gleich,  wie  ich 
den  Abend  bei  meinem  Collegen  zugebracht.  Ich  antwortete, 
dass  es  dort  sehr  hubsch  gewesen.  Auf  weitere  Schilderungen 
liess  ich  mich  nicht  ein,  sondern  zog  mich  in  mein  Zimmer 
zuruck,  wo  ich  noch  lange  wach  im  Bette  lag  und  dem 
Bilde  Seraphinens  nachhing,  bis  mich  endlich  der  Schlaf 
iibermannte. 

Als  ich  am  Morgen  die  Augen  aufschlug,  war  sie  mein 
erster  Gedanke.  Wann  wiirde  ich  sie  wiedersehen  ?  Man 
hatte  mich  gestern  zu  weiterem  Erscheinen  nicht  aufgefordert. 
Aber  das  war  doch  wol  auch  iiberflussig  bei  der  Intimitiit, 
die  jetzt  zwischen  mir  und  Fritz  bestand.  Ich  konnte  es 
kaum  erwarten,  mit  ihm  in  der  Klasse  zusammenzutreffen  ; 
am  liebsten  ware  ich  gleich  vor  das  Rote  Haus  gelaufen,  um 
ihn  dort  abzupassen.  Ich  unterliess  es  aber,  denn  meinem 
Ansehen  wollte  ich  doch  nichts  vergeben.  Dennoch 
richtete  ich  es  unwillkiirlich  so  ein,  dass  wir  uns  schon  im 
Schulhofe  fanden.  Er  gab  mir  auch  gleich  die  Versicherung, 
dass  man  bei  ihm  zu  Hause  (iber  mein  Erscheinen  sehr 
erfreut   gewesen.     Den  Eltern  habe   ich   ungemein  gefallen. 


524  COSMOPOLIS. 

Seraphine   lasse  mich  griissen.     Sie  bedauere  nur,   class   sie 
eigentlich  garnicht  mit  mir  habe  sprechen  konnen. 

So  sehr  mich  diese  Mitteilung  entzucktc,  erwiderte  icli 
doch  nichts  darauf. 

'*  Nun,  dii  wirst  wol  jetzt  ofter  kommen  ?  "  fuhr  Fritz  fort, 
wahreiid  wir  die  Treppe  hinanstiegen. 

"  Wenn  es  deinen  Eltern  recht  ist " 

**  Das  ist  doch  selbstverstandlich.  Und  dann " — er  warf 
sich  ein  wenig  in  die  Brust-  "dii  besuchst  w/c//.  Ich  habc 
ja  mein  eigenes  Zimmer.  Schon  gestern  wollt'  ich  dich  hinein 
fiihren,  aber  es  war  keine  Zeit  dazu.  Wenn  du  willst,  zeig'  ich 
es  dir  gleich  nach  der  Schule." 

Begreiflicherweise  erhob  ich  keine  Einwendung,  und  noch 
nie  hattc  ich  das  Glockenzeichen,  das  den  Schkiss  der  Lehr- 
stunden  anzeigte,  mit  solcher  Sehnsucht  abgewartet. 

Wir  schritten  also  hierauf  rascher  als  sonst  dem  Roten 
Hause  zu.  Als  PYitz  die  WohnungskHngel  zog,  ofFnete  eine 
derbe  Magd  die  Tiir  ;  er  selbst  aber  fuhrte  mich  gleich 
durch  die  Kiiche  in  sein  Zimmer.  Es  war  eigentlich  ein 
langes  und  schmales  Kabinett,  wo  die  seinem  ganzen  Wesen 
entsprechende  symmetrische  Ordnung  herrschte.  In  einer 
Ecke  stand  sein  kleines  Bett ;  hart  am  Fenster  ein  Tisch  mit 
Mappen,  Reissbrettern  und  Zeichenrequisiten.  Den  meisten 
Raum  aber  nahm  ein  grosser  Bucherschrank  ein,  dessen 
Glastiir  Fritz  sofort  aufschloss.  "  Da  siehst  du  meine 
Bibliothek,"  sagte  er  mit  merklichem  Stolze.  Es  war  eine 
ganz  reichhaltige  Sammlung  von  Biichern,  die  mich  aber 
damals  sehr  wenig  anzogen :  lateinische,  griechische  und 
deutsche  Klassiker,  altere  Geschichtswerke  und  Reisebe- 
schreibungen.  AUes  in  hiibschen,  zum  Teil  schon  verblass- 
ten  Einbanden.  "  Das  Meiste  ist  mir  geschenkt  worden ; 
Einiges  habe  ich  mit  meinem  Taschengelde  erstanden,"  fuhr 
Fritz  fort.  *Mch  habe  grosse  Freude  an  meinen  Biichern, 
obgleich  sie  fast  alle  Lekture  fur  spatere  Jahre  sind. 
Jetzt  lese  ich  eigentlich  nur  den  Schiller."  Er  zog  einen 
Band  heraus  und  schlug  ihn  auf.  Es  war  die  bei  Mausberger 
erschienene  Wiener  Ausgabe  mit  den  wunderlichen  Kupfern 
im  Stile  Fiigers.  "  Und  dort  ist  mein  Zeichentisch."  Er 
hatte  das  Buch  wieder  versorgt,  offnete  eine  Mappe  und  wies 


SUNDENFALL.  525 

mir  angstlich  saubere  Nachbildungen  voii  kleinen  Land- 
schaften  und  Bluraenstiicken.  "  Das  Zeichnen  ist  namlich 
mein  Hanptvergnugen,  und  ich  glaube,  dass  ich  einiges  Talent 
dazu  besitze.  Seraphine  hingegen  findet  ihre  Freiide  im 
Clavierspielen  ;  sie  hat  es  audi  schon  ziemlich  weit  gebracht." 

In  diesein  Augenblick  wurde  eine  Tapctentiir,  die  nach 
den  anderen  Wohnraumen  fiihrle,  halb  goffnet,  und  der  blonde 
Kopf  seiner  Schwester  erschien  forschend  in  der  Spalte. 

"  Aha,  da  ist  sie  sclion  !"  lief  Fritz.  "  Unsere  Kalhi  wild 
dich  angekundigt  haben.  Na,  komm'  nur  herein  !  Du  siehsl : 
ich  hab'  ihn  gleich  heute  niitgehracht." 

'*  D;is  ist  schon,"  sagtc  sie,  mich  beini  Einhcten  niit  cineni 
Liicheln  begriissend.  "  Ich  bin  froh,  dass  Sie  so*bald  gc- 
koinmen  sind.  Ich  wollte  Ihnen  schon  gestern  ein  piiar  Worte 
wegen  der  Resa  sagen." 

"Resa— ?" 

"  Das  Madchen,  das  sich  von  Ihnen  die  Hand  nicht  kiissen 
lassen  wollte." 

"  Daran  hab'  ich  gar  nicht  mehr  gedacht.  Ich  war  ja 
froh,  dass  ich  es  nicht  notwendig  hatte." 

"  Nun  ja.  Aber  es  war  doch  sehr  ungezogen.  Und  glauben 
Sie  nur  nicht,  dass  ich  mit  ihr  befreundet  bin.  Wir  mussten 
sie  einladen,  weil  ihr  Papa  im  Amt  ein  Vorgesetzter  des  meinen 
ist.  Die  Leute  hatten  es  uns  sonst  iibel  genoinmen.  Im 
ubrigen  verkehre  ich  sehr  selten  mit  Resa,  denn  ich  mag  sie 
garnicht." 

**  Ich  auch  nicht,"  warf  Fritz  sehr  entschieden  ein.  Er  trug 
es  ihr  oifenbar  nach,  dass  sie  ihm  gestern  keinen  Beifall 
gespendet.  "  Aber  weisst  du,  Seraphine,  du  konntest  dem 
Rudolf  gleich  Etwas  vorspielen." 

"  Wenn  er  will,"  erwiderte  sie  und  sah  mich  fragend  an. 
"  Sind  Sie  musikalisch  ?  " 

"  Leider  nein.  Aber  ich  hore  sehr  gern  Clavier  spielen 
Und  wenn  Sic " 

"Sie  durfen  nicht  zu.viel  erwarten.  Ich  lerne  erst  seit 
einem  Jahre. — Aber  weisst  du,  Fritz,  es  ist  doch  jetzt  eine 
recht  ungelegene  Zeit.  Ich  bin  geradei  mit  Thildi — das  ist 
unserc  Nalicrin  "  erklfirte  sie  mit  cineni  Hlick  auf  mich — "an 
einem  Kleide  liir  Mama  bcscliaftigl."     Sic  langtc  nach  cinem 

fOL.  IX — NO.  xxvi.  11 


526  COSMOPOLIS. 

Strahnchen  dunkler  Seide,  das  halb  um  ihren  zarten  Nacken 
geschlungen  war,  und  hob  ein  Ende  leicht  empor.  "  Da  sehen 
Sie  nur.  Ich  muss  ja  auch  das  lernen  !  Und  eben  jetzt  kann 
ich  mich  nicht  gut  losmachen.  Kommen  Sie  doch  Heber 
Abends.     Nicht  wahr,  Fritz  ?  " 

"  Natiirlich — gleich  zur  Jause." 

"  Wollen  Sie  ?  " 

"  O  gewiss — " 

"  Nun  also.  Dann  spiel'  ich  Ihnen  etwas  Neues  von  Thal- 
berg.  Aber  jetzt  adieu  !  Ich  darf  Thildi  nicht  warten  lassen." 
Sie  knixte  anmutig  und  enteilte. 

"Nicht  wahr,  cin  liebes  Madchen?",  sagte  Fritz,  wahrend 
ich  nach  der  Tapctenti'ir  blickte,  hinter  welcher  sie  mil  ihrein 
leicht  nachflatternden  bunt  carrirten  Hauskleidchen  ver- 
schwunden-  war.     "  Die  kannst  du  einmal  heiraten." 

•'  Ach  gehV'  erwiderte  ich  und  f iihlte,  wie  rot  ich  geworden. 
"  Wie  kannst  du  nur  schon  jetzt  an  so  'was  denken " 

"  Warum  nicht  ?"  entgegnete  er,  sich  streckend,  "Wirsind 
nun  bald  sechzehn.  In  sechs  Jahren  haben  wir  unsere 
Studien  beendet,  und  dann " 

"  Mein  Gott,  wer  weiss,  was  bis  dahin  geschieht  — " 

"  Das  ist  freilich  wahr.  Na,  aber  heute  Nachmittag  koinmst 
du...." 

Und  ich  kam.  Kam  heute,  morgen — kam,  so  oft  es  nur 
anging.  Ich  sass  dann  mit  Fritz  in  dem  schmalen  Kabinett, 
sah  zu,  wie  er  zeichnete,  oder  blickte  in  ein  Buch,  das  ich  aus 
den  Reihen  seiner  Bibliothek  hervorgezogen.  War  die 
Tapetentur  geschlossen,  so  steckte  Seraph ine  hin  und  wieder 
den  blonden  Kopf  herein  und  rief  uns  ein  paar  freundliche 
Worte  zu.  Nachmittags  aber  war  die  Tiir  gewohnlich  offen, 
und  ich  konnte  in  das  anstossende  Zimmer  sehen,  wo  das 
liebliche  Kind  entweder  an  einem  Nahtischchen  beim  Fenster 
sass  oder  sich  auf  dem  Clavier  iibte.  Sie  spielte  eigentlich 
noch  recht  unbeholfen,  meistens  sentimentale  Eti'iden,  wie  sie 
damals  in  der  Mode  waren  ;  mir  aber  klang  Alles  wie  Spharcn- 
musik.  Nach  der  Jause  wurde  die  Lampe  angezundet,  und 
man  griff  zu  dem  heute  ganz  und  gar  vergessenen  geselligen 
Wurfelspiele  "  Hammer  und  Glocke,"  an  dem  auch  die 
Eltern  teilnahmen.     Diese  bezeigten  sich  sehr  herzlich  gegen 


SUNDENFALL.  527 

mich  ;  es  war  ihnen  oifenbar  erwiinscht  gekommen,  dass  Fritz 
coUegialen  Anschluss  gefunden.  Der  Vater  liebte  es,  mich  auf 
die  Achsel  zu  klopfen,  wobei  er  mich  "  junger  Mann  "  oder 
auch  "  amicule  "  nannte.  Er  war  iiberhaupt  von  einer  feinen 
Jovialitat  und  hatte  durchaus  nichts  "  Protestantisches "  an 
sich,  wie  denn  in  dem  kleinen  FamiHenkreise  ein  zarter, 
warmer,  inniger  Gemiitston  vorherrschte,  wie  man  ihn  jetzt 
kaum  irgendwo  mehr  antriflft.  Von  mir  wusste  man  nur,  dass 
ich  aus  gutem  Hause  und  der  einzige  Sohn  meiner  Mutter  war  ; 
niiher  einzudringen  vermied  man — und  von  dem,  was  mich 
eigenthch  hieher  zog,  hatte  man  keine  Ahnung.  Man  furchtete 
daher  auch  nichts — und  es  tear  nichts  zu  fiirchten.  Ich  liebte 
Seraphine  mit  der  schiichternen  Seligkcit  eines  jiinglinghaften 
Knaben — und  s/t'brachte  mir  in  stiller,  lauterer  Unbefangenheit 
ein  erwachendes  Miidchenherz  entgegen.  Wir  wussten  es 
beide,  sprachen  es  jedoch  niemals  aus.  Auch  kein  vielsagender 
Blick,  geschweige  denn  eine  kundgebende  Zartlichkeit.  Einmal 
aber,  als  Fritz,  um  ein  neues  Stuck  zu  erproben,  wieder  sein 
Theater  aufgeschlagen  hatte,  und  wir  als  die  einzigen  Zuschauer 
in  dem  verdunkelten  Zimmer  neben  einander  sassen,  streifte 
meine  rechte  Hand  ganz  zufallig  ihre  linke.  Erschrocken  zogen 
wir  beide  die  Hande  zuriick — um  siegleich  darauf  zu  sanftem 
unschuldvoUem  Umfangen  in  einander  zu  legen. 


Wahrend  dieser  schonen  gliicklichen  Zeit  hatte  ich  meine 
friiheren  Genossen  mehr  und  mehr  vernachlussigt.  Man 
schien  es  anfanglich  garnicht  zu  bemerken.  Die  Meisten 
mochten  seit  jeher  das  Gefiihl  gehabt  haben,  dass  ich  nicht 
recht  in  die  Verbindung  taugte,  bekiimmerten  sich  daher  nicht 
viel  um  mich.  Nur  Thoms  und  ein  paar  seiner  nachsten 
Kumpane  zeigten  mir  finstere  Gesichter,  sagten  aber  auch 
nichts.  Denn  ich  war  doch  noch  an  einigen  Nachmittagen  im 
Kaffechause  erschienen  und  hatte  mich,  hausliche  Abhal- 
tungen  vorschutzend,  mit  klingender  Munze  von  den  Kneip- 
abenden  losgekauft,  was  immerhin  eine  gewisse  Befriedigung 
hervorrief.  Als  ich  aber  endlich  geradezu  wegblieb,  regte 
sich  in  Thoms  die  Galle.  Eines  Tages,  nach  Schulschluss, 
winkte  er  mich  gebieterisch  zu  sich  heran  und  stellte  mich 
zur  Rede.     Und  da  ich  eine  landliiufige  Ausflucht  vorbrachte. 


528  COSMOPOLIS. 

sagte  er  :  "  Ach  was,  faule  Kische  !  W'lr  wissen  schon,  wo 
du  jetzt  deine  Zeit  hinbringst.  Bei  dem  kleinen  Luther.  Er 
soil  cine  hubsche  Schwester  haben.  Freilich  noch  der  reine 
Fratz !  Na,  das  ist  deine  Sachc.  Wir  aber  warden  es  nicht 
ruhig  hinnehmen,  dass  du  uns  so  ohneweiters  den  Rucken 
kehrst." 

Der  drohende  Hlick,  den  er  mir  dabci  zuwarf,  beleidigte 
mein  Selbstgefiihl.  "  Nun,  was  wollt  Ihr  denn  tun?"  fragte 
ich  gereizt. 

"  Das  wirst  du  schon  sehen,"  erwiderte  er  und  kniff  die 
Augen  zusammen.  "  VVenn  du  morgen  bis  sieben  Uhr  nicht 
in  Hernais  erscheinst,  so  ziehen  wir  in  corpore  vors  Rote 
Haus.  Wir  werden  dich  schon  zu  finden  wissen."  Und 
da  er  sah,  wie  ich  erschrocken  zusammenzuckte,  fuhr  er  mit 
bosartigem  Behagen  fort :  "  Wirst  es  wol  nicht  darauf 
ankommen  kissen.  Wir  miissen  diesmal  voUzahlig  sein. 
Denn  es  ist  die  letzte  Kneipe  im  Jahr,  da  man  die  Weihnachts- 
tage  doch  in  der  Familie  zubringen  muss.  Auch  den  Sylvester- 
abend.  Den  aber  wollen  wir  morgen  gleich  im  voraus  feiern. 
Wir  werden  Punsch  trinken.  Neuhauser,  der  auch  kommt, 
hat  versprochen,  ein  paar  Flaschen  Essenz  mitzubringen. 
Also  lass  es  dir  gesagt  sein  !  "  Damit  drehte  er  sich  auf  den 
Absatzen  um  und  iiberliess  mich  meiner  Fassungslosigkeit. 

J  a,  ich  war  fassungslos.  Seine  Worte,  das  fuhlte  ich, 
hatten  keine  leere  Drohung  enthalten  ;  wenn  cr  commandirte, 
liessen  sich  die  Uebrigen  zu  jedem  Unfug  herbei.  Es  half 
nichts  :  ich  musstc  morgen  erscheinen,  so  doppelt  wider- 
wartig  mir  jetzt  das  ganze  Treiben  war.  Und  auch  Neuhauser 
soUte  kommen  !  Dieser  Neuhauser,  der  Sohn  eines  reichen 
Fabrikanten  in  Schottenfeld,  war  bis  in  die  funfte  Klasse 
hinein  unser  Mitschiiler  gewesen,  hatte  aber  wegen  absoluter 
Unfahigkeit  —  oder  vielmehr  Faulheit — das  Studiren  aufge- 
geben  und  lebte  jetzt  im  elterlichen  Haus  als  blosser  Tagdieb. 
Dennoch  hatte  ihn  Thoms  gewissermaassen  als  Gast  in  die 
Verbindung  aufgenommen,  weil  er  uber  unbeschrankte 
Geldmittel  verfiigte  und  auch  durch  sonstige  Eigen- 
schaften  dem  verlotterten  Senior  besonders  zusagte.  Erst 
siebzehnjahrig,  war  er  bereits  ein  entnervter  Wustling, 
der  in  letzterer  Zeit  ein  Liebesverhaltnis  mit  einer  Arbeiterin 


SUNDENKALL.  529 

aus  der  vaterlichen  Fabrik  angeknupft  und  sie  zu  seiner 
Maitresse  erhoben  hatte.  Sie  war  auch  einmal  mit  ihm  in  die 
Kneipe  gekommen.  Was  ich  beim  Anblick  dieses  Madchens 
empfunden,  lasst  sich  schwer  in  Worte  fassen.  Im  Grunde  war 
es  Abscheu,  der  aber  eine  gleichzeitige  Regung  des  Wolge- 
fallens  nicht  zu  uberwaltigen  vermochte.  Wenn  Ihnen  das 
heute  vielgenannte  Getnalde  Stucks,  "  Die  Si'inde/'  auch  nur 
in  der  Reproduction  bekannt  ist,  so  haben  Sie  eine  an- 
nahernde  Vorstellung.  Ein  breites,  eigentlich  hiissliches 
Gesicht  mit  vorragenden  Backenknochen  und  einem  grossen, 
verbissen  sinnlichen  Munde.  Die  niedere,  in  der  Mitte  leicht 
eingedruckte  Stirn  von  schweren,  glanzlos  dunklen  Haaren 
umwolkt.  Die  Formen  voll,  wuchtig,  tnig — dabei  eine  matte, 
gelbliche  Hautfarbe,  der  aber,  besonders  an  den  schon 
geformten,  langbefingerten  Handen,  ein  perlmutterartiger 
Schimmer  verliehen  war.  So  sass  sie,  mit  allerlei  Schmuck 
behangeni  neben  dem  weit  jiingeren  Neuhauser,  der,  obgleich 
or  sie  selbst  hier  eingef iihrt,  von  krankhafter  Eifersucht  erfiillt 
schien.  Oflfenbar  wusste  sie  das  und  hatte,  wie  um  ihn  zu 
beruhigen,  eine  Hand  auf  seinem  Arm  liegen,  wixhrend  sie,  nur 
wenigsprechend,ihreverschleiertenAugen  im  Kreisewandern — 
und  zuweilen  auf  mir  ruhen  liess.  Ich  sah  dann  immer  weg,  aber 
ich  empfand,  wie  Etwas  um  mein  Gesicht  kroch,  gleich  unsicht- 
baren  Spinnenfussen.  Und  dann  muste  ich  doch  wieder 
hinbHcken  —  und  da  gewahrte  ich,  wie  um  ihren  Mund  ein 
fluchtiges  Lacheln  zuckte.  Sir  richtete  aber  kein  Wort  an  mich ; 
erst  als  sie  bei  der  allgemeinen  Bewegung  des  Aufbruches  in 
meine  Nahe  kam,  griff  sie  mir  rasch  und  verstohlen  unter  das 
Kinn,  wobei  sie  die  Oberlippe  wie  in  wilder  Begehrlichkeit 
emporzog  und  einen  kurzen,  tierischen  Laut  ausstiess.  Es 
war  nur  ein  fliichtiger  Moment  gewesen  ;  aber  ich  fi'ihlte  ihre 
heisse,  etwas  feuchte  Hand  um  Hals  und  Kinn  bis  ich  nach 
Hause  kam,  und  noch  vor  dem  Einschlafen  rieb  ich  die  Stelle 
mit  meinem  Taschentuche.  Seitdem  hatte  ich  Toni  —  so  hiess 
das  Madchen  —  nicht  wieder  gesehen  ;  der  Eindruck  hatte 
sich  verfluchtigt  —  fast  auch  die  Erinnerung.  Jetzt  aber,  bei 
dem  Gedanken,  dass  ich  vielleicht  morgen  mit  ihr  zusammen- 
treffen  konnte,  stand  plotzlich  ihr  Bild  in  voller  Deutlichkeit 
vor   mir.     Ich   sah  die  iippige  Gestalt,  die  schweren,  tragen 


530  COSMOPOLIS. 

Bewegungen,  die  lauernden  Augen  —  und  unwillkurlich  griff 
ich  dorthin,  wo  mich  ihre  Hand  angefasst  hatte.  Ich  fu  -.h- 
tete  mich.     .     .     . 

In  dieser  Seelenstimmung  ging  ich  nach  Haiise,  wo  ich  den 
Abend  allein  mit  meiner  Mutter  zubrachte,  die  von  dem  Allen 
keine  Ahniing  hatte. 

Als  ich  nach  einer  unruhigen  Nacht  in  die  Schule  kam,  fiel 
mir  an  Fritz  eine  eigentumliche  Befangenheit  auf  ;  es  war, 
als  konne  er  mir  nicht  in  die  Augen  sehen.  Nach  einer 
Weile  fliisterte  er  mir  plotzlich  zu  :  "Du  musst  dann  gleich  mit 
mir  kommen.     Seraphine  hat  dir  etwas  zu  sagen." 

"  Was  ist  es  denn  ?  " 

"  Ich  weiss  nicht." 

"  Du  weisst  schon — willst  nur  nicht  mit  der  Sprache 
heraus." 

Er  kiimpfte  mit  sich  selbst.  "  Irgend  ein  Tratsch,"  erwi- 
derte  er  endlich.  "Aber  du  wirst  es  schon  von  meiner 
Schwester  horen.  Mama  hat  heute  ihren  Einkaufstag,  ist 
daher  nicht  zu  Hause.  Du  kannst  dich  also  mit  Seraphine 
ungestort  aussprechen." 

Wiihrend  der  Lehrstunden  wjilzte  ich  allerlei  Vermutungen 
in  mir  herum.  Kein  Zweifel  :  man  hatte  Nachteiliges  uber 
mich  erfahren — und  gewiss  bezog  es  sich  auf  meinen  Verkehr 
mit  den  "  Grossen."  .  .  . 

Als  wir  in  der  Greweschen  Wohnung  angelangt  waren, 
hiess  mich  Fritz  in  seinem  Kabinett  verweilen.  Er  selbst 
begab  sich  in  das  anstossende  Zimmer,  kehrte  aber-  sofort 
zuriick.     "Geh'  nur  hinein,"  sagte  er,  "sie  erwartet  dich." 

Klopfenden  Herzens  trat  ich  ein.  Sie  sass  in  ihrem  carrirten 
Kleidchen  an  dem  kleinen  Tisch  beim  Fenster,  erhob  sich 
aber  rasch  und  schritt  mir  entgegen.  Sie  sah  eigentumlich 
blass  und  doch  wie  erhitzt  aus ;  ihre  sonst  so  hellen  Augen 
hatten  eine  triibe,  fast  dunkle  Farbung.  "  Kennen  Sie  eine 
Majorin  Schmidt  ?  "  fragte  sie  ohne  jede  Einleitung. 

"  Allerdings,"  erwiderte  ich,  einigermaassen  verbliifFt.  "  Sie 
kommt  sehr  oft  zu  m.einer  Tante." 

"Ganzrecht,  zu  Ihrer  Tante.  Und  wissen  Sie,  dass  man  dort 
gar  nicht  gut  von  Ihnen  spricht  ?  " 

"  Das  kann  ich  mir  wol  denken.    Aber  woher  —  " 


SUNDENFALL,  53I 

"V^oii  Kesahtib'  ich  es  erfahren,"  sagte  sie  unci  stiitztc  sich 
auf  die  Lehne  eines  nahen  Sessels.  "Ich  habe  gestern  mit 
Mama  dort  einen  Besuch  gemacht,  den  wir  schon  lange 
schuldig  waren.  Die  Majorin  kommt  zuweilen  aiich  in  dieses 
Haus — undhat  allerlei  von  Ihnen  erzahlt " 

'*  Nun,  was  hat  sie  denn  erzahlt  ?" 

'*  Dass  Sie  mit  jungen  Leuten  verkehren,  die  sich  in  Kaffee- 

und    Wirtshausern  herumtreiben  —  und  sogar "    Sie 

wandte  das  Haupt  ab  und  Hess  sich  auf  den  Sessel  nieder. 

"  Ich  ahne,  was  Sie  sagen  wollen,  Friiulein  Seraphine." 

'*  Es  ist  also  wahr  ?  " 

*'  Wahr  und  nicht  wahr.  Ich  kann  nicht  leugnen,  dass  ich 
in  dieser  Gesellschaft " 

"  Und  weiss  das  Ihre  Mutter,  Rudolf  ?  " 

"Sieweiss  es — und  weiss  es  nicht.  Aber  sie  kennt  mich, 
und  der  scharfe  Spiirsinn  meiner  Fran  Tante,  den  ich  nur 
bewundern  kann,  wenn  er  mich  audi  keineswegs  iiberrascht, 
ware  nicht  imstande,  mich  in  ihren  Augen  herabzusetzen. 
Und  auch  Sie  sollten  mich  nicht  verachten,  Seraphine! 
Ja,  ich  bin  in  diese  Gesellschaft  hineingeraten.  Ich  weiss 
selbst  nicht  wie.  Und  niemals  hab'  ich  mich  dabei  wol- 
gefi'ihlt,  habe  mich  losgemacht,  so  oft  es  nur  anging.  Und 
seit  ich  Sie  kenne,  bin  ich  ganz  weggeblieben." 

"  Wirklich  ?  "     Sie  sah  mich  forschend  an. 

"  Ich  luge  niemals,  Friiulein  Seraphine.  Und  Sie  mussen 
fuhlen,  dass  ich  die  Wahrheit  spreche,  denn  Sie  wissen,  dass 

ich  Sie "     Ich  sprach  das  Wort  nicht  aus  und  Hess  mich 

nur  auf  ein  Knie  nieder,  ihre  Hand  ergreifend,  die  sich  ganz 
kalt  anfiihlte.  Sie  entzog  sie  mir  nicht  und  legte  die  Andere 
still  auf  meinen  Scheitel.  So  verweilten  wir,  ohne  zu  sprechen 
Mit  einmal  spiirte  ich,  wie  ihr  zarter  Leib  zusammenschauderte. 
"  Was  ist  —  was  haben  Sie,  Seraphine  ?  "  fragte  ich,  bestiirzt  zu 
ihr  aufblickend. 

"  Ich  weiss  nicht  —  schon  seit  zwei  Tagen  fiihle  ich  mich 
nicht  ganz  wol.  Ich  muss  mich  erkaltet  haben.  Aber 
stehen  Sie  jetzt  auf."  Und  als  ich  vor  ihr  stand,  sagte  sie  leise  : 
"Ich  Hebe  Sie  ja  auch,  Rudolf  —  habe  Sie  schon  geliebt, 
eh'  ich  Sie  noch  kannte.  Aber  was  soil  daraus  werden  ?  Wir 
sind  noch  so  jung " 


:;^2  'COSMOPOLIS. 

Ich  crwiderte  nichts.  Mun  konnt  zwar  jetzt  uber  diesc  vor- 
zeitige  Liebesscene  lachcln  —  abcr  fur  iins  war  es  ein  ernster 
feierlicher  Aiigenblick  —  ein  Augenblick,  wie  man  ihn  eben  niir 
in  der  ersten  Friihe  des  Lebens  kennt,  wo  Herz  iind  Sinn  noch 
rein,  noch  ganz  vom  Idealen  erfullt  sind.     .     .     . 

'*  Krcilich,  wcnn   Sie  mich  wiihrhafl  lieben,"  fnhr  sie  fort, 

wilhrend   sic    sicli    langsain  crhob,    ''dann Papa   unci 

Mania  haben  auch   lang  auf  cinandcr  gewarlet.     VVerdcn  Sie 
ausharren,  Rudolf  ?  " 

Ich  legte  die  Hand  beteuernd  an  die  Brust. 

"  Ich  glaube  Ihnen/'  sagte  sie  still.  Und  nun  kann  ich 
auch  gestehen,  dass  mich  die  hamischen  Mitteilungen  Resas 
nicht  irrc  gemacht.  Sie  sind  ja  Ihrcn  Jahrcn  voraus  und 
kein  Knabe  mehr,  wie  mein  Bruder,  der  gerade  deshalb  so 
sehr  an  Ihnen  hangt.  Es  bekummerte  mich  nur  der  Eltern 
wegen,  die  es  nun  ebenfalls  erfahren  werden  —  vielleicht  schon 
erfahren  haben.  Mama  war  gestern  auflfallend  ernst  und 
nachdenklich.  Aber  was  auch  erfolgen  mag :  mein  Herz 
gehort  Ihnen."  Sie  war  mir  ganz  nahe  getreten  und  Hess  das 
Haupt  an  meine  Schulter  sinken.  Ich  umfing  sie  sanft  und 
streifte  ihr  Haar  mit  den  Lippen.  Dabei  fuhlte  ich  wieder, 
wie  ein  starker  Schauer  durch  ihren  Korper  ging. 

"  Ich  habe  Fieber/'  sagte  sie.  "Gehen  Sie  jetzt ;  Mama  kann 
jeden  Augenblick  nach  Hause  kommen.     Adieu,  Rudolf." 

Ich  trat  in  das  Kabihett,  wo  mich  Fritz  mit  Spannung 
erwartete.     "  Nun  ?"  fragte  er. 

"O,  es  ist  gut  !  Es  ist  alles  gut !  Ich  kann  dir  jetzt  nicht 
mehr  sagen."  Damit  nahm  ich  Miitze  und  Mantel  und  sturzte 
fort,  die  Treppe  hinunter. 

Draussen  hatte  es  zu  schneien  begonnen.  Wahrend  die 
Flocken  niederwirbelten,  eilte  ich  nach  Hause,  wie  von  Flugeln 
getragen.  In  meinem  Zimmer  jedoch  iiberfiel  es  mich  mit 
ganzer  VVucht,  dass  ich  heute  nach  Hcrnals  musste.  Aber 
musste  ich  denn  ?  VVarum  hatte  ich  Scraphinen  nichts  davon 
gesagt  ?  Sie  war  ein  so  kluges  Madchen  und  hi'itte  mir  gewiss 
guten  Rat  erteilt.  Wenigstens  wiisste  sie  darum  !  Es 
erschien  mir  jetzt  wie  schandliche  Liige,  wie  niedertrachtige 
Verheimlichung,  dass  ich  geschwiegen.  Aber  ich  hatte  ja  gar 
nicht  mehr  daran  gedacht — hatte  in  meinen  seligen  Emplin- 


SUNDENFALL.  533 

diingen  Alles  vergessen.  Und  nun  war  es  zii  spilt.  Ja,  ich 
mussic  nach  Hernals,  denn  ich  konnte  sie  und  die  Ihren  dem 
bdsartigen  Mutwillen  der  Grossen  nicht  aussetzen.  Und  es 
geschah  jaheute  zum  letzten  Mai  !  Es  wird  sich  dann  schon 
irgend  ein  Ausweg  finden  lassen.  Und  immerhin  konnte  ich 
mich  in  der  Nachmittagsschule  Fritz  anvertrauen,  auf  dass  er 
ihr  Mitteihmg  mache,  wenn  er  es  fur  gut  ffmde. 

Doch  Fritz  empfing  mich  gleich  mit  den  VVortcn  :  '*  Sera- 
phine  liisst  dich  grussen.  Sie  hat  sich  zu  Rett  gele^t.  Mama 
wollte  es." 

"  Was  mag  sie  nur  haben  ?  " 

"  Es  wird  eine  Grippe  sein." 

"Wenn  sie  nur  nicht  ernstHch  erkrankt — " 

"  Das  moge  Gott  verhOten  !  Es  waren  traurige  Weihnachten. 
Nun,  ich  hoffe,  ein  paar  Tassen  Lindenblutenthee  machen  sie 
wieder  gesund.  Jedenfalls  aber  bleibt  sie  morgen  zu  Bett.  Du 
kommst  ohnehin  nicht.  Dann  morgen  ist  Sonntag,  und  da 
gehst  du  zu  deiner  Tante." 

"  Zu  meiner  lieben  Tante." 

"  Ach  was,  lass'  die  Tante  Tante  sein  !  " 

Ich  sagte  ihm  also  nichts  und  begleitete  ihn  nur  nach 
der  Schule  vor  das  Rote  Haus,  wo  wir  uns  trennten.  Eine 
Stunde  spater  trat  ich  die  verhasste  Wanderung  an,  nachdem 
ich  zuvor  noch  meiner  guten  Mutter  bedeutet  hatte,  dass  ich 
heute  zien^lich  lang  ausbleiben  durfte. 

Ich  sehe  die  Spelunke  noch  vor  mir,  fuhr  der  Hofrat  fort, 
in  der  wir  uns  damals  versammelten.  Ein  niederes,  halb  im 
freien  Feld  gelegenes  Haus  mit  verfallendem  Schindeldache 
und  einem  windschiefen  Anbau,  der  den  wi'isten  landlichen 
Hof  seitwarts  abgrenzte.  Wenn  man  durch  das  Thor  trat, 
hatte  man  links  die  Gaststube,  welche  eigentlich  nur  zur  Zeit 
der  Heurigenschanke  besucht  wurde  ;  sonst  blieb  das  di'istere, 
modrig  feuchte  Lokal  in  der  Regel  leer.  Von  dort  aus 
gelangte  man  in  das  uns  angewiesene  Zimmerchen  ;  es  stiess 
schon  an  den  Anbau,  wo  der  halbbauerliche  Wirt  mit  drei 
Kindern  und  einer  Magd  als  Witwer  hauste.  Der  Raum  war 
sehr  niedrig ;  man  konnte  mit  der  Hand  fast  an  die  Decke 
langen.     Nur  ein   Tisch  stand  darin,  an    welchem  auf  einer 


534  COSMOPOLIS. 

Bank  iind  einigen  gebrechlichen  Stuhlen  ungefahr  zwolf 
Personen  Platz  fanden.  In  der  nachsten  Ecke  war  ein 
winziges  Blechofchen  zu  erblicken,  und  an  der  Wand 
dammerte  ein  erblindeter  Spiegel  mit  dahinter  gestecktcn 
Palmzweigen.  An  einem  holzernen  Kleiderrechen,  dem  viele 
Nagel  fehlten,  hing  eine  alte  Guitarre  mit  verschossenera 
blauen  Bande. 

Dort  also,  beini  Schein  von  zwei  tri'iben  Talglichtern,  sassen 
wir  jetzt  :  neun  an  der  Zahl.  Sieben  junge  Biirschen  —  und, 
wie  das  bei  solchem  Anlasse  vorauszusehen  gewesen,  zwei 
Miidchen,  die  mit  ihren  IJebhabern  —  sie  hiessen  Stockinger 
und  Riittmann  -  -  gekommen  waren.  Obleich  Thorns  mir 
gegeniiber  die  notwendige  V^ollzahligkeit  besonders  hervor- 
gehoben,  fehlten  doch  zwei  Mitglieder  des  Bundes ;  auch 
Neuhauser  war  noch  nicht  erschienen.  Der  Senior,  der  mich 
im  Kaffehause  mit  hohnischer  Genugtuung  begrusst  hatte, 
machte  daher  schon  ein  recht  argerliches  Gesicht  ;  ich  aber 
schopfte  einigc  Hoffnung,  dass  mir  ein  Zusammentreffen  mit 
Toni  erspart  bleiben  werde.  Aber  schon  trat  sie  mit  ihrem 
Geliebten  durch  die  Tiir.  Eine  sturmische  Begrussung 
erfolgte.  Man  nahm  Toni  den  Mantel,  so  wie  zwei  grosse 
Papier  umwickelte  Flaschen  ab,  die  sie  in  den  Armentrug; 
dann  wurde  dem  Paar  ein  Ehrenplatz  zugewiesen,  Es  traf 
sich,  dass  ich  Toni  etwas  naher  zu  sitzcn  kam,  ais  damals  ;  sie 
aber  schien  mich  gar  nicht  zu  beachten,  wiihrend  ich  nicht 
umhin  konnte,  den  Blick  auf  sie  zu  heften.  Sie  trug  heute  eine 
leicht  mit  Pelz  verbrilmte  Jacke,  einen  weitlaufigen  Korallen- 
schmuck  und  hatte  das  Haar  mit  einem  roten  Bande 
durchflochten.  So  unterschied  sie  sich  sehr  eigentumlich 
von  den  anderen  Frauenzimmern,  die  zwar  auch  in  ihrer 
Weise  Staat  gemacht  batten,  aber  trotz  unechter  Geschmeide  und 
hunter  seidener  Halstiicher  in  verwaschenen  Kattunkleidem 
recht  armlich  aussahen.  Die  Eine,  blond  und  mager,  hektische 
Rote  auf  den  Wangen,  hatte  das  Haar  an  den  eingesunkenen 
Schlafen  in  grosse  Schnecken  gedreht  ;  die  Andere  war  fast 
noch  ein  Kind  mit  weiss  -  rotem  Puppengesicht  und  kieinen 
etwas  schieienden  schwarzen  Glaskugelaugen.  An  dieser 
Halbwuchsigen  schien  Thoms  Gefallen  zu  finden.  Er  hatte 
sie    schon  friiher  an    seine  Scite    j^esetzt  und  bcdrangte  sie 


StlNDENFALL.  535 

nunmehr,  da  er  guter  Laune  geworden,  mit  Zartlichkeiten, 
ganz  unbekiimmert  um  ihren  Geliebten  Riittmann,  der  sich 
ubrigens  gar  nicht  eifersiichtig  bezeigte,  vielmehr  das 
Madchen  willig  dem  despotischen  Collegen  zu  iiberlassen 
schien. 

Herr  Schallmaier,  der  Wirt,  welcher  gegen  Erlag  von  zwei 
Zwanzigern  fur  jeden  Teilnehmer  —  so  billig  konnte  man  es 
damals  noch  haben  —  die  Besorgung  der  ganzen  Sylvester- 
Vorfeier  libernommen  hatte,  war  inzwischen  mit  seinem  kiipf- 
rigen  Schelmengesicht  ab  und  zu  gegangen.  Er  tischte 
Rauchfleisch,  Salami  und  Kilse  auf,  sogar  eine  grosse  Schussel 
mit  walschem  Salat.  Dazu  eine  milchtige  "  Pitsche/'  bis  an 
den  Rand  mit  Bier  gefi'illt,  das  man,  da  hier  nur  Wein  ver- 
zapft  wurde,  aus  dem  nachsten  grosseren  Gasthause  Tieruber- 
geholt.  Nun  ging  es  ans  Schmausen,  und  als  das  Bier  alle 
war,  erschienen  einige  Flaschen  *'  Gerebelter,"  der,  wie  Herr 
Schallmaier  versicherte,  den  jungen  Herrschaften  besonders 
munden  wurde.  Auch  etwas  Susses  fur  die  "  Damen  "  brachte 
er  :  einen  riesigen  Gugelhupf,  der  Toni  zum  Anschneiden 
uberreight  wurde. 

Der  "Gerebelte,"  den  ich  als  abgesagter  Feind  des  Bieres 
nun  ebenfalls  kostete,  war  wirklich  gut  —  das  heisst,  wie  zu 
jener  Zeit  alle  Weine,  noch  unverfalscht.  Er  tat  auch  bald 
seine  Wirkung :  man  begann  lustig  zu  werden.  Mit  hoch- 
geschwungenem  Glase  stimmte  Thoms  das  Gaudeamus  an, 
dem  andere  Burschengesange  folgten,  die  mit  zahlreichen 
Libationen  verbunden  waren.  Obgleich  ich  an  meinem  Glase 
jedesmal  nur  nippte,  stieg  mir  doch  das  ungewohnte  Getrank 
zu  Kopf,  und  unwillkiirlich  wurde  ich  in  die  herrschende 
Stimmung  mit  hineingezogen.  Erst  als  das  Fuchslied  "  Was 
kommt  dort  von  der  Hoh'  ? "  an  die  Reihe  gelangte,  kam 
ich  wieder  zur  Besinnung.  Denn  man  hatte  das  Lied  auf 
mich  gemunzt  und  die  Stellen  :  "  Was  macht  die  F*rau 
Mama  ?  Was  macht  die  Mamsell'  Soeur  ? "  mit  besonders 
satirischer  Betonung  hervorgehoben.  Sie  schnitten  mir  ins 
Herz,  und  bei  den  Selbstvorwiirfen,  die  sie  weckten,  versank 
ich  in  ein  missmutiges  Schweigen.  Ich  achtete  garnicht 
darauf,  dass  jetzt  Stockinger,  ein  vierschrotiger  Bengel  mit 
langen,  studentisch  hinter  die  Ohren  gcstrichenen  Haaren,  ein 


536  COSMOPOLIS. 

Solo  *'  Itn  tiefen  Keller  sitz'  ich  hier/'  zum  besten  gab.  Er 
besass  eine  wuchtige  Bassstimme,  auf  die  er  sehr  stolz  war 
und  Avelche  er  bei  jeder  Gelegenheit  prahlerisch  ertonen  liess. 
Als  er  geendet  hatte,  bemerkte  ich,  dass  Toni  die  braunen, 
von  blaulichen  Lichtern  durchzuckten  Augen  auf  mich  gerich- 
tet  hielt.  "  Na,  junger  Herr,"  sagte  sie  jetzt,  '*  warutn  sitzen  S' 
denn  gar  so  tasig  da  ?     An  was  denken  S'  denn  ?  " 

"An  was  wird  er  denken!"  rief  Thorns  hohnisch.  "An 
seine  Geliebte  denkt  er." 

Toni  kniff  die  Augen  zusammen.  "An  seine  Geliebte  ?  V 
hab'  g'laubt,  er  is  no'  a  Unschuld." 

"  Das  wird  er  wol  auch  sein,  der  zimperliche  Fuchs,"  lachte 
Thorns.     "Seine  Fiamme  geht  ja  noch  in  Hosen." 

Ein  allgemeines  Gelachter  folgte  diesem  Ausspruch.  Toni 
aber  wandte  langsam  den  Kopf  ab>  wahrend  ich  in  meiner 
Verwirrung  umsoweniger  ein  Wort  der  Entgegnung  fand,  als 
inzwischen  die  hektische  Blondine  die  Guitarre  herabgelangt 
hatte  und  auf  dem  arg  verstimmtcn  Jnstrumente  zu  praludiren 
began  n. 

"Ah,  die  Maltschi!"  rief  man  von  alien  Seiten.  "Die 
Maltschi  will  uns  was  singen  ! " 

"  Singen  net,"  sagte  das  Miidchen.     "  V  bin  heut'  net  bei 
Stimm'.     Mir  tut  die  Brust  weh."     Sie  hiistelte. 
"  Na,  so  spiel'  halt  die  Tanz'  ! "  sagte  Stockinger. 
"  Ja,  ja,  die  Tanz'  ! "    stimmte  man  bei.     "  Die  spielt  ihr 
keiner  nach  !  " 

"  Die  Tanz'  spiel'  i,"  erwiderte  die  Blonde,  sichtlich 
geschmeichelt,  griff  mit  Macht  in  die  schrillenden  Saiten  und 
hub  mit  einer  Reihe  von  Walzern  und  Landlern  an,  die 
immer  mehr  Anklang  fanden,  bis  sie  endlich  von  allgemeinem 
Handeklatschen  und  Fussgestampf  begleitet  wurden, 

Nur  Toni  schenkte  den  tollen  Klangen  wenig  Aufmerksam- 
kcit.  Sie  hatte  aus  einer  kleinen  im  Tisch  angebrachten  I-ade 
ein  abgegriffenes  Spiel  Karten  hervorgeholt  und  schickte  sich 
an,  mit  langsamen,  tragen  Handbewegungen  eine  Art  Patience 
zu  legen,  die  ihre  Gedanken  mehr  und  mehr  tu  beschaftigen 
schien.  Neuhauser,  der  an  ihrer  Seite  sass,  beobachtete  dieses 
Gehaben  mit  scheelen  Blicken.  Er  hatte  dem  Wain  uber 
Gebur  zugesprochen  ;  man  sah,  dass  er  bereits  angetrunken 


sOndenfall.  537 

war.  Dennoch  hatte  sein  auffallend  langes,  hageres  Gesicht 
die  gewohnliche  Fahlheit  beibehalten,  nur  die  weitgeschlitzten 
gelblichen  Augen  gluhten.  Endlich,  da  die  Guitarrespielerin 
gerade  eine  Pause  eintreten  Hess,  sagte  er  mit  heiserer  Stimme  : 
"  Was  schlagst'  denn  Karten  auf  ?  Denkst'  schon  wieder  an 
ihn  ?" 

Toni  zuckte  zusammen.  Sie  wollte  offenbar  heftig  erwidern, 
aber  sie  uberwand  sich.  "An  ihti  denk'  i  net  mehr/'  sagte 
sie  ruhig.  "  I  hab'  nur  aus  den  Karten  etwas  uber  dcm  seine 
Geliebte  erfahren  woll'n."  Dabei  deutete  sie  mit  einer 
Kopfbewegung  nach  mir  bin. 

"  Was  kummert  dich  die  Geliebte  von  dein  ?  "  engegnete 
er  gereizt.     "  Was  kann  dir  d'ran  liegen  ?  '* 

"  Nix  liegt  mir  d'ran/'  versetzte  sie  und  schob  mit  einem 
bosen  Blick  die  Karten  zusammen.  "Aber  du  bist  schon 
wieder  eifersiichtig.  Trink'  lieber  net  so  viel.  Es  wird  dir 
ubel  wer'n." 

"  Willst  mir  schon  wieder  vorschreiben  ? "  schrie  er 
"  Jetzt  trink  ich  erst  recht !  Wo  bleibt  der  Punsch  ?  He, 
Wirtshaus  ! "  Er  polterte  mit  einer  leeren  Flasche  auf  den 
Tisch. 

Herr  Schallmaier  eilte  aus  der  Gaststube  herbei,  wo  er  sich 
bei  seinem  eigenen  Wein  aufhielt. 

"  Was  is  mit  dem  Punsch  ?  " 

"  Wasser  kocht  schon,  Herr  von  Neuhauser.     Aber — " 

"  Die  Essenz  fehlt !  Dort  auf'm  Fensterbrett  steht  sie.  Die 
grossere  Flaschen.  In  der  andern  is  Rum.  Den  wollen  wir 
selber  nachgiessen." 

Der  Wirt  ergrifF  die  Flasche,  eilte  ab,  und  es  dauerte  nicht 
lange,  so  wurde  die  Terrine  samt  frischen  Glasern  hereinge- 
bracht,  die  Neuhauser  eigenhandig  mit  einem  blechernen 
Schopfloffel  fullte.  "  Prosit ! "  rief  er,  nachdem  die  Arbeit 
getan  war.  Die  Glaser  klangen  nun  zusammen,  und  man 
schlurfte  das  dampfende,  schwer  duftende  Getrank,  dessen 
Wirkung  in  den  meisten  Gesichtern  immer  deutlicher 
erkennbar  wurde. 

Die  Geliebte  Stockingers,  deren  Wangen  wie  Feuer  tlammten, 
hatte  wieder  die  Guitarre  ergriffen  und  stiess  jetzt  aus  ihrer 
keuchenden  Brust  einige  kreischende,  gesangartige  Tone  hervor. 


538  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Bravo  !  Die  Maltschi  singt  !  "  rief  man  im  Kreise.  "  Das 
is  g'scheidt !     Jetzt  wird's  erst  lustig  ! " 

"  Na,  es  geht  net,"  erwiderte  Maltschi.  "  Die  Brust  tut 
mir  zu  weh." 

''  A  was  !  Trink  'nur  no  a  Ghis'I  Punsch  ! "  schrie  Neuhauser. 
*'  Der  wird  dir  gut  tun.  So.  No  a  bissl  Rum  nach  !  Und 
jetzt  sing' !  Lass  di'  net  bitten  ! "  Er  zog  seine  Borse  und 
v*arf  einen  Funfer  auf  den  Tisch.  "Das  is  von  mir!  Aussa 
mit  die  Vierzeiligen  !  " 

"  Xo  mein'twegen/'  sagte  das  Madchen,  rausperte  sich  lang 
und  liess  endlich  eine  Folge  von  kurzen  Strophen  vernehmen, 
wie  sie  damals  der  schamlose  Humor  der  Wiener  Volkshefe 
hervorbrachte.  Immer  frecher,  immer  lasciver  wurde  der 
Text,  immer  schallender  das  Johlen  der  Zuhorer,  welche  die 
iirgsten  Zoten  im  Chorus  wiederholten.  Ein  hassliches, 
orgiastisches  Bild  entfaltete  sich.  Thoms  hatte  die  Kleine  auf 
den  Schoss  gezogen  und  liebkoste  sie,  wfihrend  die  anderen 
Burschen  liistern  beifallige  BHcke  auf  die  Gruppe  warfen. 
Neuhauser  war  halb  an  Toni  hingesunken  ;  sein  erschreckend 
bleiches  Gesicht  lag  auf  ihrer  Schulter.  So  lallte  er,  die  Augen 
verglast,  die  unziichtigen  Worte  nach,  welche  Maltschi,  sich 
iiberschreiend,  mit  gebrochener  Stimme  sang. 

Plutzlich  glitt  er  von  der  Bank  herab  und  lautlos  zu 
Boden. 

Man  blickte  bestiirzt  nach  ihm  hin.  Nur  Thoms  blieb  ruhig 
sitzen,  die  Kleine  auf  dem  Schosse  festhaltend,  wahrend  man 
sich  jetzt  um  Neuhauser  drangte  und  ihn  auf  die  Bank 
emporbrachte,  wo  er  besinnungslos  liegen  blieb. 

"  I  hab's  ja  g'wusst  ! "  rief  Toni,  keineswegs  besorgt,  sondern 
mit  iirgerlichem  Abscheu.  "Aber  er  lasst  si  nix  sagen. 
Jetzt  liegt  er  da  ! " 

**  Schiitt's  ihn  mit  VViisser  an,"  sagte  Thoms  lakonisch. 

"  AnschUtten  net ! "  entgegnete  Toni.  "  Aber  schaut's,  dass 
a  Wasser  kommt !  I  werd'  ihm  kalte  Umschlag*  auf  n  Kopf 
machen." 

Einige  eilten  fort  und  kehrten  mit  dem  Wirt  zuruck,  der 
einen  Wasserkrug  und  ein  nicht  allzu  reines  Wischtuch 
brachte.  Indes  sich  Toni  anschickte,  dieses  einzutauchen, 
sagte  cr  :  "  Wissen  S'  was,  Fral'n  ?    Tragen  wir   den  jungen 


sOndenfall.  539 

Herrn  in  mein  Zimtner  'nauf.     Dort  leg'n  wir  ihn  aufs  Belt, 
und  er  kann  glei'  sein'  Rausch  ausschlafn." 

Dieser  Vorfall  brachte  mich  wieder  zu  mir  selbst.  Denn 
trotz  des  Ekels,  den  ich  in  solcher  Atmosphare  empfunden, 
hatte  doch  der  Piinsch,  den  ich  nicht  ganz  verschmahen  durfte, 
meine  Gedanken  verwirrt  und  meine  Augen  wie  durch  triibe 
Nebel  nach  Toni  hingelenkt — der  einzigen  Niichternen  in  dem 
mehr  oder  minder  berauschten  Schwarm.  Sie  nahm  jetzt 
ihren  Mantel  um  und  folgte  dem  Wirt,  der  mit  Hilfe  Stock- 
ingers  und  noch  zweier  Anderer  den  Volltrunkenen  hinaus 
schleppte, 

"  Gut,  dass  er  draussen  ist  ! "  rief  Thorns.  '*  Der  Kerl  ver- 
tragt  nix.  Wir  aber  wollen  uns  jctzt  eincn  Krambambuli 
machen  ! " 

"  Ja  !  Ja  !  Krambambuli !  "  bri'illte  es  rings. 

"  Na,  also  !  Schaut  Euch  nach  einer  Blechschiissel  um  ! 
Schallmaier  soil  Zucker  hergeben.  Wir  werden  ihn  schon 
zahlen." 

Ruttmann,  Thorns  gegeniiber  stets  dienstbereit,  eilte  fort 
und  kam  bald  mit  dem  Gewiinschten  zuriick.  Der  Zucker 
lag  schon  in  der  Schiissel ;  nun  wurde  reichlich  Rum  dariiber 
gegossen  und  angeziindet,  wahrend  gleichzeitig  die  beiden 
Talgkerzen,  zu  Stumpchen  herabgebrannt,  von  selbst  erlo- 
schen. 

Inzwischen  war  auch  Stockinger  mit  den  Genossen  wieder 
erschienen.  Sie  brachten  die  Nachricht,  dass  Neuhauser 
driiben  zur  Besinnung  gekommen,  aber  sofort  in  tiefen  Schlaf 
verfallen  sei.  Nun  schnarche  er,  von  Toni  bewacht,  im  Bette 
des  Wirtes.  Ich  jedoch  nahm  jetzt  den  gunstigen  Augen- 
blick  wahr,  um  mich  zu  befreien.  Eine  Weile  noch  verblieb 
ich  im  Kreise  der  Gestalten,  die  um  die  blilulich  wallende 
Lohe  standen.  Alle  Gesichter  hatten  eine  leichenhafte 
Farbung,  wahrend  das  Lied  "  Krambambuli,  das  ist  der 
Titel  des  Tranks,  der  sich  bei  uns  bewahrt"  mit  ohren- 
zerreissendem  Missklang  angestimmt  wurde.  Als  die  Flamme 
ins  Zucken  und  Verflackern  geriet,  beniitzte  ich  die  begin- 
nende  Dunkelheit,  um  rasch  mein  Ueberkleid  vom  Nagel  zu 
langen  und  aus  dem  Zimmer  zu  verschwinden. 

Draussen  im  Gastzimmer    qualmte    ein    schwindsuchtiges 


540  COSMOPOLIS. 

Oellampchen.  Ich  eilte  an  das  Hausthor.  Es  war  verschlossen, 
der  grosse,  plumpe  Schlussel  steckte  jedoch.  Ich  wollte  ihn 
drehen  —  es  gelang  mir  nicht.  Das  eingerostete  Ungetum 
Irotzte  meinem  ganzen  Kraftaufwand.  Ich  beschloss  also,  das 
Freie  durch  den  Hof  zu  gewinnen,  wo,  wie  ich  aus  Erfahrung 
wusste,  eine  schadhafte  Stelle  des  Stacketen-Zaunes  leicht  zu 
uberklettern  war. 

Im  Hofe  angelangt,  blieb  ich  unwillkurlich  stehen  und 
atmete  in  vollen  Zugen  die  kalte,  kiare  Winternachtluft  ein. 
Rings  war  alies  verschneit,  und  die  weisse  Fliiche,  von  der  sich 
der  Zaun  und  einigekahle  Baume  dunkel  abhoben,  schimmertc 
im  hellen  Lichte  des  fast  vollen  Mondes. 

Als  ich  mich  jetzt  in  Bewegung  setzte,  vernahm  ich  einc 
Slimme,  diejmir  von  oben  zurief  :  "  Was  machen  denn  Sic  da, 
junger  Herr  ?" 

Ich  blickte  empor.  Auf  dem  offenen  Aussengang  des 
Anbaues  stand  Toni  in  ihren  Mantel  gehiillt. 

Ich  war  bei  ihrem  Anblick  zusammengezuckt  und  fand  nicht 
gleich  eine  Antwort.     "  Ich  gehe  fort,"  sagte  ich  endlich. 

"  Schon  jetzt  ?  I  hab's  freilich  bemerkt,  dass  's  Ihnen  da 
drunten  net  gar  angenehm  war.  Mir  auch  net.  Aber 
kommen  S'  a  bissel  herauf."     Sie  winkte  leicht  mit  der  Hand. 

Nun  uberkam  mich  ein  eigentumlicher  Zustand,  der  sich 
heute  vielleicht  auf  Suggestion  zuruckfiihren  liesse.  Ich 
wollte  entfliehen,  suchte  die  schadhafte  Stelle  des  Zaunes  mit 
den  Augen  —  aber  ich  best ieg  die  sch  male  holzerne  Freitreppe, 
die  zu  ihr  hinan  fiihrte. 

*'  So,  das  is  schon,"  sagte  sie,  als  ich  oben  war.  "  Leisten 
S'  mir  a  wenig  G'sellschaft.  Der  Neuhauser  schlaft  da  drin." 
Sie  wies  nach  einer  nahen  Ti'ir.  "Aber  es  is  z'kalt  da  heraus- 
sen.  Gehn  wir  auch  'nein."  Sie  ergriff  meine  Hand  und 
fuhrte  mich  in  ein  kleines  Zimmer,  das  von  einer  lang- 
schnuppigen  Kerze  matt  erhellt  war.  Auf  einem  wusten  Bette 
lag  Neuhauser,  den  Kopf  in  ein  eingesunkenes  Federkissen  halb 
vergraben  ;  sein  linker  Arm  hing  schlaff  iiber  das  schmale 
Lager  hinab. 

Toni  nahm  das  Licht  vom  Tischc  und  beleuchtete  ihn. 
"  Da  schaun  S'  nur,  wie  er  ausschaut.  Grauslich.  Und  mil 
dem  Menschen  muss  i  gehn." 


SUNDENKALL.  541 

"  Miissen  ?     Warum  miissen  sie  denn " 

"  Fragen  S'  do'  net  so  !  1  bin  a  arm's  Madel.  Vielleicht 
heirat'  er  mi  no,  wenn  er  a  jiinger  is  als  i.  Aber  gern  hab'  i'hn 
net.     I  hab'  nur  mein*  Lois  gern." 

"  Lois  ?  "  wiederholte  ich  ganz  gedankenlos. 

"  Ja  raein'  Lois.  Aber  der  will  mi  wieder  net.  Anmal 
freilich  hat  er  mi  schon  woU'n.  Er  hat  mi  ganz  narrisch 
gern  g'habt — aber  jetztmag  er  mi  nimmer.  Undschaun  S'" — 
sie  trat  dicht  an  mich  heran  und  blickte  mir  ins  Gesicht — 
"schaun  S',  sie  seg'n  ihm  ganz  gleich.  Drum  g'fallen  S'  mir 
aiich  so  gut."  Sie  zog  die  Oberlippe  empor  wie  damals,  11  nd 
griff  mir  mit  heisser  Hand  unter  das  Kinn. 

Ich  trat  einen  Schritt  zuriick,  indem  ich  unwillkiirlich  an 
meinen  Hals  langte. 

*'  No,  i  beiss'  Ihna  net,"  sagte  sie  halb  iirgerlich,  halb 
gutmiitig.  "Sei'n  S'  net  so  g'schamig  !  A  Bussel  konnen  S'  mir 
schon  geb'n.  Ihre  Geliebte  weiss  's  ja  net."  Und  schon  hatte 
sie  mich  umschlungen,  und  ihre  geoffneten  Lippen  saugten 
sich  an  meinem  Munde  fest. 

Nun  aber,  obgleich  von  ihr  selbst  an  Seraphine  gemahnt, 
fuhlte  ich  mich  durchrieselt.  Etwas  nochnie  Gekanntes, 
unwiderstehlich  Miichtiges  trieb  mich,  den  vollen,  bliihenden 
Frauenleib  zu  umfassen,  der  sich  an  den  meinen  drangtc. 
Aber  ein  ebenso  Machtiges  wehrte  sich  dagegen.  Ich  trachtetc, 
Toni  von  mir  zu  zwingen,  wahrend  ich  mit  den  Augen  nach 
dem  schlafenden  Neuhauser  wies. 

"  A  was !  "  fliisterte  sie,  meinen  Wink  ganz  anders 
deutend.  "  Lassen  S'  den !  Der  liegt  wie  a  Toter.  Da 
konnt'  ma  a  Kanon'  abfeuern,  so  wacht  er  net  auf.  Kommen 
S'  nur  !  " 

Als  ich  bald  darauf  aus  dem  Zimmer  trat,  erfiillte  mich  eine 
ode,  dumpfe  Trauer.  Was  ich  gegen  Seraphine  verbrochen, 
kam  mir  fiirs  erste  garnicht  zum  Bewusstsein  :  ich  empfand 
nur,  dass  ich  etwas  Un wieder bringliches  verloren  hatte. 

Ein  langeres  Schweigen  trat  ein.  **  Und  was  geschah  weiter?" 
fragte  ich. 

"Amnachsten  Tage  brach  bei  Seraphine  der  Scharlach 
aus.      Eine  diphteritische   Complication   trat    hinzu.      Noch 

VOL.   IX. — so,  XXVI.  \\\ 


542  COSMOPOLIS. 

in  derselbeii  Woche  starb  sie,  ohne  dass  ich  sie  wicder- 
gesehen  hiltte.  Was  ich  in  jenen  Tagen  gelitten,  mit  welchen 
Empfindungen  ich  an  der  Seite  des  weinendcn  Fritz  der  Leiche 
gefolgt  bin,  damit  will  ich  Sie — und  mich  verschonen.  Genug  : 
ich  ghiubte  damals  nicht  weiter  leben  zu  konnen.  Aber 
ich  lebte  weiter.  Und  leben  heisst  vergessen — wenn  auch 
hin  und  wieder  die  dunklen  Schatten  der  Vergangenheit 
auftauchen." 

In  diesem  Augenblick  wurde  die  Tur  leicht  aufgeklinkt, 
eine  kleine,  weiss  behandschuhte  Hand  raffte  die  Portiere  ein 
wenig  zur  Seite,  und  ein  schoner,  dunkelaugiger  Frauenkopf 
spahte  vorsichtig  in  das  Zimmer.  Hinter  ihm  kam  in 
dammernden  Umrissen  der  Kopf  eines  beriihrnten  Portrat- 
uialers  zum  Vorschein.  Als  die  Dame  bemerkte,  dass  Jemand 
im  Zimmer  war,  Hess  sie  erschrocken  den  Vorhang  sinken,  und 
die  Beiden  verschwanden  lautlos. 

*'Auch  ein  Siindenfall/'  sagte  der  Hofrat  nach  einer  Pause. 
"  Aber  kein  erster."  Dann  stand  er  auf,  um  sich  wieder  in  die 
Gcsellschaft  zu  bcgeben. 

Ich  folgte  ihm. 

Ferdinand  von  Saar. 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES 
SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS. 


1. 

Die  Redaction  der  Cosmopolis  hat  mich  gebeten,  von 
meinem  Standpunkte  aus  zu  dem  Problem  des  sozialistischen 
Zukunftstaats,  wie  es  jiingst  in  dieser  Zeitschrift  von  Herrn  W. 
Liebknecht  behandelt  worden  ist,  kritisch  Stellung  zu  nehmen. 
Diese  Aufgabe  hatte  einen  gewissen  Reiz  fiir  mich,  und  trotz 
einiger  Bedenken  habe  ich  sie  iibernommen.  Seit  Jahren  hat 
mich  die  Kritik  des  ganzen  sozialistischen  Gedankenkreises — 
so  mochte  ich  das,  worum  es  sich  handelt,  am  liebsten 
bezeichnen — viel  beschaftigt.  Ich  wiirde  mich  damit  nicht 
abgegeben  haben,  wenn  ich,  wie  es  noch  heute  vorkommt,  in 
diesem  Gedankenkreise  nur  ein  leeres  spekulatives  Gedanken- 
spiel  Oder  gar  nur  "  Unsinn  und  Verbrechen "  sahe  :  eine 
meines  Erachtens  ebenso  unrichtige  und  ungerechte  wie 
thorichte  und  gefahrliche  Ansicht.  Es  handelt  sich  vielmehr 
ohne  Zweifel  hier  um  eine  Gedankenwelt,  welche  aus  der 
ganzen  neueren  Entwicklung  des  Wirtschaftslebens  mit  einer 
gewissen  Notwendigkeit  sich  ergeben  musste.  Sie  ist  von 
keinem  halbwegs  Verstandigen  und  Unbefangenen  ohne- 
weiters  in  Bausch  und  Bogen  zu  verwerfen  und  abzulehnen. 
Dazu  enthalt  sie  zu  viel  unbestreitbar  richtige  Elemente 
sowol  der  Kritik  unserer  bestehenden  Rechts-  und  Wirt- 
schaftsordnung,  deren  Function  und  Folgen,  als  auch  der 
begriindeten  positiven  Thesen  inbetreff  der  zu  erwartenden 
Weiterentwicklung,  der  "  Evolution."  Das  was  man  gegneri- 
scherseits,  mitunter  aber  auch  in  der  Sprechweise  der 
Sozialisten  selbst,  die  "  Postulate  "  des  Sozialismus  nennt,  sind 
im  Grunde  nach  der  auf  dem  Boden  der  Entwicklungslehre 


544  COSMOPOLIS. 

stehenden  Auffassung  des  wissenschaftlichen  Sozialismus 
gerade  nur  bestimmte,  aus  den  gegebenen  Verhaltnissen 
abgeleitete  *'  Erwartungen "  hinsichtlich  des  notwendigen 
*' Hiniiberwachsens  "  der  modernen  "  burgerlichen,"  "kapita- 
listischen "  Volkswirtschaft  in  die  sozialistische  Wirtschafts-, 
Rechts-  und  Gesellschaftsordnung.  Das  von  Herrn  Liebknecht 
behandelte  Problem  ist  daher  nach  meiner  Ueberzeugung  der 
sorgfaltigsten  und  unbefangensten  kritischen  Betrachtung 
wert, —  freilich  auch  einer  solchen  bediirftig. 

Die  Grundlage  der  Liebknechtschen  Ausfuhrungen,  wie  aller 
ahnlichen,  ist  die  bekannte  sozialistische  Doctrin  von  Wert, 
Mehrwert,  Entstehung  und  Function  des  (Privat-)  Kapitals, 
Lohngestaltung  im  heutigen  "  freien  "  biirgerlichen  Wirtschafts- 
system  etc.  Ich  halte  diese  Doctrin  in  ihren  Hauptlehrsatzen 
fiir  falsch  nach  ihrer  Methode,  nach  ihrem  Inhalt.  Aber  ich 
sehe  trotzdem  in  der  Gedankenarbeit,  welche  die  grossen 
Meister  des  wissenschaftlichen  Sozialismus  auf  dieses  ihr 
Fundament  verwandt  haben,  eine  der  bedeutendsten  kritischen 
und  positiven  Geistesleistungen  auf  dem  ganzen  Gebiete  der 
wissenschaftlichen  Sozialokonomik.  Ich  stimme  auch  in  der 
Diagnose  der  Schaden  unserer  bestehenden  Wirtschaftsord- 
nung,  namentlich  des  Systems  der  freien  Konkurrenz,  in  dem 
Urteil  iiber  die  vielfach  verhangnisvolien  Foigen  des 
'*  Kapitalismus "  ofters  mit  der  sozialistischen  Kritik  uberein, 
ohne  freilich  so  weit  zu  generalisiren,  wie  diese  es  tut.  Ich 
finde  auch  die  Prognose,  wieder  abgesehen  von  zu  weit 
gehender  Generalisirung,  in  vielen  Punkten  richtig  gestellt,  so 
namentlich  was  die  Richtung  der  Weiterentwicklung,  den  Sieg 
des  Grossbetriebs  auf  wichtigen,  freilich  bei  weitem  nicht  auf 
alien  Gebieten  der  Produktion  und  der  Circulation  anlangt. 
Aber  ich  erachte  das  therapeutische  Verfahren  oder,  in  der 
Ausdrucksweise  des  Sozialismus,  das  notwendige  "  Entwick- 
lungsprodukt,"  den  Uebergang  zum  vollen  sozialistischen 
Wirtschaftssystem  ohne  Privateigentum  an  den  sachlichen 
Produktions-  oder  Arbeits-Mitteln  fur  unmdglich  und  glaube 
daher  auch  nicht,  dass  eine  solche  Entwicklung  eintreten 
wird.  Diese  Auffassung  beruht  fur  mich  auf  den  triftigsten 
psychologischen,  technischen,  auch  auf  populationistischen 
Griinden. 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALTSTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      545 

Leider,  muss  ich  nun  gestehen,  hat  der  Liebknechtsche  Auf- 
satz,  trotz  mancher  vom  Standpunkte  des  Verfassers  treffenden 
einzelnen  Ausfiihrungen,  mich  im  Ganzen  doch  enttauscht, 
Ich  fand,  dass  auch  dieser  Autor,  welcher,  von  seiner  politi- 
schen  Tatigkeit  ganz  abgesehen,  unter  den  heutigen  Epigonen 
des  wissenschaftlichen  Sozialismus  eine  angesehene  Stellung 
einnimmt,  doch  die  eigentlichen  Kernpunkte  des  von  ihm 
erorterten  Problems  und  damit  die  grossen  Schwierigkeiten — 
wie  alle  seine  Vorganger  derselben  Ridhtung — einfach  umgeht ; 
Schwierigkeiten,  die  sich  doch  jedem  unbefangen  Prufenden 
einer  Verwirklichung  des  "  sozialistischen  Zukunftsstaats " 
schon  gedankenmassig  entgegenstellen  und  praktisch  kaum 
uberwindlich  erscheinen.  Auch  Herr  Liebknecht  misst 
Nebensachlichem  eine  zu  grosse  Bedeutung  bei  ;  auch  er 
generalisirt  in  der  iiblichen  Weise  der  Sozialisten  vorhandene 
Entwicklungstatsachen  der  heutigen  biirgerlichen  Wirtschafts- 
ordnung,  wie  die  eben  nur  partiell  bestehende  "  Tendenz  zum 
Grossbetrieb/'  viel  zu  sehr  und  baut  darauf  weiter.  Auch  er 
lasst  die  tieferen,  namentlich  die  psychologischen  Bedingungen 
jeder  weiteren  Gestaltung  und  Gestaltungsmoglichkeit  des 
Wirtschaftslebens  unbeachtet.  Auch  er  endlich  operirt  doch 
vielfach,  wie  alle  Sozialisten,  nicht  mit  Tatsachen  und  sicheren 
Erfahrungssatzen,  sondern  mit  Axiomen  und  Dogmen,  die  er 
sicherlich  uberzeugtermaassen  fur  richtig  halt,  die  aber  eben 
Andere  nicht  fur  wahr  ansehen,  nicht  "  glauben."  So  bietet 
nach  meiner  Meinung  Herr  Liebknecht  kaum  Neues,  und  sein 
Aufsatz,  als  wissenschaftliche  Leistung  betrachtet,  hat  die 
Analyse  des  interessanten  Problems  nicht  sonderlich  gefordert. 
Eines  meiner  Bedenken  bei  Uebernahme  dieses  meines  eignen 
Aufsatzes  ist  daher,  dass  eine  Kritik  des  erwahnten  sozialisti- 
schen Gedankenkreises  in  der  Liebknechtschen  Fassung 
ebenfalls  kaum  Neues  zu  bieten  vermag,  was  ich  dem  Leser 
gleich  von  vornherein  nicht  verhehlen  mochte. 

Fur  mich  personlich  kommt  dazu  das  weitere  Bedenken, 
dass  ich  mich  eigentlich  hier  nur  wiederholen  kann.  Ich  habe 
in  mancherlei  Aufsatzen  und  Schriften,  auch  in,  dem  Druck 
ubergebenen,  offentlichen  Reden  eine  Kritik  der  sozialistischen 
Theoreme  und  auch  der  "  Zukunftsstaatsphantasien,"  wie  ich 
sie  hier  jetzt  gebe,  schon  ofters^geliefert.     So  gut  ich  es  eben 


546  COSMOPOLIS. 

vermochte,  habe  ich  dies  auch  in  streng  wissenschaftlicher 
Form  in  der  dritten  Auflage  meiner  '*  Grundlegung  der  politi- 
schen  Oekomomie"  (zwei  Bande,  Leipzig  1892-94)  zu  tun 
versucht.  Namentlich  die  beiden  Punkte,  auf  welche  ich  in 
einer  objectiven  wissenschaftlichen  Kritik  des  Sozialismus  das 
Hauptgewicht  lege,  habe  ich  dabei  immer  in  den  Vordergrund 
geschoben  und  besonders  in  meinem  vorgenannten  Werke 
eingehend  zu  wiirdigen  gesucht.  Es  sind  das  einmal  die 
psychologischen  Momente,  welche  bei  alien  Fragen  der  Organi- 
sation der  wirtschaftlichen  Arbeit  und.  der  Produktion,  wie 
bei  den  Fragen  der  Regelung  der  Bedurfnisbefriedigung,  der 
Verteilung  und  Consumtion  eine  entscheidende  RoUe  spielen  ; 
sodann  das  sogenannte  "  Bevolkerungsproblem/'  (wenn  man 
so  will  :  die  Malthus'sche  Frage).  Ich  weiss  zu  dem,  was  ich 
dariiber  friiher  ausgefuhrt  habe,  kaum  Neues  hinzuzufugen, 
halte  das  allerdings  auch,  so  weit  ich  eben  fur  mich  zu  urteilen 
habe,  nicht  fur  geboten,  mag  es  den  Vertretern  anderer  Auffass- 
ungen  genugen  oder  nicht.  So  muss  ich  mich  hier  auf  eine 
Zusammenfassung  meiner  alten  kritischen  Bedenken  gegen 
den  sozialistischen  Zukunftsstaat  beschranken.  Im  Anschluss 
an  den  Liebknechtschen  Aufsatz  kann  ich  nur  etwa  dies  oder 
jenes  Einzelne  herausheben  und  es  einer  besonderen  Kritik 
unterziehen,  weil  mir  die  Ausfuhrungen  in  jenem  Aufsatz 
abermals  gezeigt  haben,  dass  gerade  an  solchen  Punkten  die 
Kritik  des  Sozialismus  immer  wieder  einsetzen  muss,  da  sich 
hier  seine  gefahrlichsten  lUusionen  kundtun. 


II. 

Neben  manchen  anderen  sind  es  vor  allem  psychologische 
Griinde,  welche  mir  die  Verwirklichung  des  sozialistischen 
Zukunftsstaates — von  der  von  mir  auch  verneinten  Wunschens- 
wertigkeit  dieser  Verwirklichung  ganz  abgesehen — unmdglich, 
und  sind  es  weiter  sogenannte  populationistische,  den  mutmaass- 
lichen  Einfluss  der  sozialistischen  Wirtschaftsordnung  auf  die 
Volksvermehrung  betreffende  Grunde,  welche  mir  diese 
Verwirklichung  hochst  gefahrlich  und  deshalb  wieder  auf  die 
Dauer  unmoglich  erscheinen  lassen.  Schon  eine  Annaherung 
an  die  sozialistische  Ordnung  der  Volkswirtschaft,  wie  sie  ein 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAAtS.      547 

sehr    umfassender    Staats-Sozialismus  mit  sich  fiihren  wiirde, 
bietet  mir  hier  grosse  Bedenken. 

Anf  solche  Einvvendungen  lilsst  sich  aber  der  theorelische 
SozialismuSy  wie  ihn  namentlich  und  am  besten  die  deutschen 
Koryphaen,  ein  Rodbertus  (der  niemals  neben  Marx  vergessen 
und  meines  Erachtens  auch  heute  ihm  noch  vorangestellt 
vverden  soUte),  ein  Marx,  Engels  reprasentiren,  und  lasst  sich 
auch  mit  seltenen  Ausnahmen  der  epigonische  Sozialismus, 
der  durch  Manner  wie  Liebknecht  und  Bebel  in  immerhin 
achtbarer  wissenschaftlicher  Weise  vertreten  wird,  gar  nicht 
ein.  Auch  der  Liebknechtsche  Aufsatz  beriihrt  die  Bevolker- 
ungsfrage  mit  keinem  Wort,  schweigt  sich  iiberhaupt  iiber 
die  normalen  Beziehungen  der  Geschlechter  im  "Zukunftsstaate" 
fast  ganz  aus, — von  ein  paar  allgemeinen  optimistischen 
(deshalb  in  diesem  Fall  nicht  notwendig  fur  falsch  zu  erach- 
tenden)  Redewendungen  abgesehen.  Ebenso  wenig  wird  die 
doch  so  naheliegende  schwierige  psychologische  Seite  des 
Verteilungsproblems  im  Zukunftsstaate  auch  nur  mit  einem 
Worte  beruhrt.  Diejenige  des  Arbeits-  und  Produktions- 
problems  wird  nur  mit  kurzen,  an  Fourier  anklingenden,  der 
psychologischen  Erfahrung  keineswegs  entsprechenden  Aus- 
fiihrungen  erortert.  Nach  diesen  konnte  man  es  bezweifeln, 
so  unwahrscheinlich  mir  das  ist,  dass  selbst  ein  Mann  wie 
Liebknecht  die  eigentlichen  Schwierigkeiten  der  sozialistischen 
Regelung  der  Arbeit  und  der  Produktion  sich  niemals 
klargemacht,.  die  hier  notwendig  mitspielenden  psych ischen 
Momente  niemals  scharf  durchdacht  hat. 

Bei  einer  sdlchen  Verschiedenheit  der  Auffassung  der  wis- 
senschaftlichen  Aufgabe  selbst,  welche  in  der  Beschaftigung 
mit  dem  Problem  des  sozialistischen  Zukunftsstaats  liegt,  wie 
sie  hier  wieder  die  Liebknechtsche  Behandlungsweise  und 
andererseits  diejenige  zeigt,  welche  ich  fiir  notwendig  halte 
und,  wie  gesagt,  dem  Problem  schon  ofters  habe  zu  Teil  wer- 
den  lassen,  fehlt  eigentlich  der  gemeinsame  Boden  fur  das 
Verstandnis  und  damit  auch  fiir  eine  Verstandigung.  Und 
letztere  sollte  doch  das  Ziel  jeder  ausfiihrenden  wie  kritischen 
Beschaftigung  mit  dem  genannten  Problem  sein  :  Jeder 
mochte  den  Anderen  von  der  Richtigkeit  der  eignen,  der 
Unhaltbarkeit  der  gegnerischen  Ansicht  iiberzeugen. 


54^  COSMOPOLIS. 

Unsere,  der  Sozialisten,  auch  Liebknechts,  und  meine 
Meinungsverschiedenheit  in  psychologischen  Dingen,  hat 
allerdings  ihre  tieferen  Ursachen.  Sie  erklart  sich  aus  prin- 
zipiell  verschiedenen  Ansichten  von  der  menschlichen,  psy- 
chischen,  daher  aiich  ethischen  Xatur  uberhaupt,  von  den 
Entwicklungsbedingungen,  den  Abhangigkeitsverhaltnissen, 
der  Veranderungsfahigkeit  und  der  bisher  nachweislichen  tat- 
sachlichen  Veranderung  dieser  Natur.  Ich  leugne  nicht  einen 
gewissen  Miteinfluss  der  ausseren,  auch  der  wirtschaftlichen 
Verhaltnisse,  des  soziologischen  "  Milieu  "  auf  des  Menschen 
Dichten  und  Trachten,  Denken  und  Tun  auf  wirtschaft- 
lichem  wie  auf  jedem  anderen  Gebiete  des  menschlichen 
Lebens.  Ich  bestreite  auch  nicht  eine  gewisse  Entwicklungs- 
und  Veranderungsfahigkeit  dieser  psychischen  Seiten  im 
Zusammmenhang  mit  den  Veranderungen  der  personlichen 
wirtschaftlichen  Lage  und  der  fur  den  Einzelnen  maassge- 
benden  wirtschaftlichen  Lebensbedingungen  und  Lebensver- 
haltnisse.  Aber  alles  Dieses  ist  fur  mich  nicht  entfernt  von 
der  Bedeutung  wie  ffir  die  Sozialisten  von  der  Richtung  der 
"  materialistischen  Geschichtsphilosophie."  Ich  sehe  daher 
auch  die  psychisch-ethische  Seite  der  menschlichen  Natur 
uberhaupt,  die  psychische  Motivation  in  und  bei  den  wirt- 
schaftlichen Handlungen  der  Menschen  insbesondere,  bei 
weitem  nicht  als  etwas  so  Veranderliches  und  Veranderungs- 
fahiges  an,  wie  es  in  ihrem  hier  oft  schonen  Idealismus — etwas 
mit  ihrer  material istischen  Richtung  recht  wol  Vereinbares— 
die  Sozialisten  tun.  Ich  muss  dabei  aber  offen  einraumen, 
auch  bei  mir,  wie  freilich  durchaus  auch  bei  den  Sozialisten, 
wenn  sie  das  auch  leugnen  oder  nicht  eingestehen,  spielen  bei 
derartigen  Grundauffassungen  Imponderabilien,  Unbewiesenes 
und  Unbeweisbares,  sagen  wir  es  ehrlich  :  gewisse  "Glaubens- 
satze"  mit.  Ich  hege  dabei  die  personliche,  naturlich  auch 
unbeweisbare  Meinung  :  von  Vielem  heisst  es,  ignoramus  et 
—  ignorabimus,  hiiben  und  driiben.  Jedenfalls  aber  :  auf  dem 
festen  Boden  der  Tatsachen  und  der  wissenschaftlich  endgiltig 
begrundeten  Wahrheit  bewegen  wir  uns  in  den  unendiich 
verwickelten  und  schwierigen  Fragen  der  Entwicklungsbedin- 
gungen der  Menschheit,  ihrer  psychischen  Motivation,  wie 
diese    fur    die    Fragen    der    wirtschaftlichen    und    sozialen 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEM  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      549 

Organisation  eirnnal  entscheidetid  ist,  alle  samt  und  senders 
nicht,  Sozialisten  so  wenig  wie  Nicht-Sozialisten.  Ein 
entscheidender  Beweis  fur  die  Moglichkeit  oder  Unmoglich- 
keit  einer  zukunftigen,  ganz  anderen  wirtschaftlichen  und 
sozialen  Organisation  als  der  bisher  historisch  in  die 
Erscheinung  getretenen,  lasst  sich  daher  auch  nicht  fiihren. 

Man  wird  nur  Zweierlei  den  Sozialisten  entgegenhalten  diir- 
fen,  einmal :  alles  was  Ihr  in  Eurem  Zukunftsstaate  plant,  setzt 
wesentlich  andere,  ich  mochte  behaupten  :  wcsensandere, 
namentlich  in  ihrer  psychischen  Motivation  auf  okonomi- 
schem  Gebiete  ganz  anders  empfindende,  strebende,  handelnde 
Menschen  voraus,  als  die,  welche  wir  aus  der  Gegenwart,  aber 
auch  aus  aller  Vergangenheit  kennen  ;  sodann  :  Ihr  tauscht 
Euch — oder  Andere — dariiber,  dass  es  sich  im  "  sozialistischen 
Zukunftsstaate "  bei  einer  Weiterentwicklung  aus  der  biirger- 
lichen,  kapitalistischen  Wirtschaftsordnung  hinaus  und  iiber 
diese  hinweg  in  die  sozialistische  nur  um  einen  ahnlichen 
historischen  Vorgang  handele  wie  friiher,  wo  auch  eine  der 
anderen  Wirtschaftsordnung  gefolgt  ist,  z.  B.  die  kapitalistische 
der  "  kleinburgerlichen"  des  ziinftigen  Handwerks,  des  gebun- 
denen  landlichen  Grundbesitzes,  des  corporativen  Handels. 
Der  Uebergang  in  die  sozialistische  Wirtschaftsordnung  ware 
nicht  nur  ein  viel  tiefer  greifender  Fortschritt,  es  ware  keinc 
bloss  graduelle,  es  ware  eine  generische,  prinzipielle  Veranderung 
der  wirtschaftlichen  und  sozialen  Organisation,  eben  deswegen 
wieder  eine  an  die  Voraussetzung  eines  **generisch  verschiede- 
nen**  menschlichen  und  sozialen  Bau materials  gebundene. 

Aber  wiederum :  weil  die  Sozialisten  von  der  Richtung 
Herrn  Liebknechts  dies  bestreiten,  ist  eben  Verstandnis  und 
Verstandigung  zwischen  uns  kaum  moglich.  Umsomehr  gilt 
es,  Andere  zu  iiberzeugen,  dass  die  sozialistische  Auffassung 
und  die  Beweisfuhrung  dafiir,  auch  die  jiingste  Herrn  Lieb- 
knechts, unhaltbar  sind. 

III. 

Dieser  Herr  hat  in  manchen  seiner  Ausfuhrungen  gegen  die 
Gegner  des  Sozialismus  sicherlich  Recht.  Mit  Fug  und  auch 
mit  Erfolg  weist  er  Einwendungen  und  Einwiirfe,  welche 
dem  Sozialismus,  seinen   wissenschaftlichen  und    politischen 


550  CQSMOPOLIS. 

Vertretern,  auch  der  Sozialdemokratie,  ofters  gemacht  werden, 
ab.  Aber  diese  richtige  Abvvehr  betrifft  durchweg  Neben- 
punkte,  tendenziose  oder  au£  Missverstandnis  beruhende  geg- 
nerische  Entstellungen  sozialistischer  Theoreme  iind  Postulate 
uiid  betrifft  iiberwiegend  solche  Gegner  des  Sozialis- 
mus,  welche  dessen  kritischen  und  positiven  Gedanken  zu 
folgen  iiicht  im  Stande  oder  nicht  Willens  sind.  Eben  des- 
wegen  bevveist  die  Liebknechtsche  Abwehr  fiir  den  Kern 
der  Dinge  wenig  oder  nichts. 

So  wird  z.  B.  mit  Recht  die  Behauptung  abgewiesen,  der 
Sozialismus  wolle  in  seinem  Zukunftsstaate  einen  wahren 
absoluten  Bruch  mit  der  ganzen  bisherigen  geschichtlichen 
Entwicklung  herbeifiihren,  eine  vollige  tabula  rasa  erst 
herstellen,  auf  der  er  dann  mit  seinen  Leuten  wie  mit  einem 
Haufen  Bausteinen  einen  ganz  neuen  wirtschaftlichen  und 
sozialen  Ban  auffi'ihren  wolle.  Er  wahne,  dass  das  moglich  sei. 
Nein,  der  Sozialismus  denkt  iiberhaupt  an  eine  organische 
Entwicklung  in  dieser  Richtung.  Er  braucht  den  Ausdruck 
"  Revolution/'  wie  es  Liebknecht  richtig  bemerkt,  nicht  im 
Sinne  von  Revolution  in  den  At  Hieing  sondern  in  den  ZieletL 
Er  nimmt  auch  nicht  notwendig  "Gewalt"  als  Hilfsmittel  zur 
Hcrbcfifiihrung  dieser  Entwicklung  ins  Auge,  wenn  auch,  was 
Herrn  Liebknecht  gegeniiber  doch  in  Erinnerung  gebracht 
werden  kann,  kcin  Geringerer  als  Marx  selbst  von  der  revolu- 
tionaren  Diktatur  des  Proletariats  (also  hier  doch  von  einer 
Revolution  auch  in  den  Mitteln)  wenigstens  fiir  Uebergangs- 
zeiten  gesprochen  hat.  Man  wird  im  Uebrigen  nur  Herrn 
Liebknecht  repliziren  di'irfen  :  Ihr  wollt  allerdings  keine  tabula 
rasa  machen  und  glaubt,  dass  sich  Euer  System  schon  frei 
entwickeln  werde,  aber  Ihr  seid  Euch  doch  nicht  klar  daruber, 
dass  die  Menschen  als  das  notwendige  Material  fur  jeden 
sozialen  Bau  in  der  Tat  von  Eurem  "  Arbeitsamt "  und  "  Er- 
ziehungsamt,"  die  Herr  Liebknecht  selbst  plant,  wie  eine 
Wachsmasse  zu  behandeln  sein  miissten,  wenn  Ihr  Erfolg  haben 
solltet. 

Auch  mit  der  Abweisung  des  Vorwurfs  gegen  die  Sozia- 
listen  des  heutigen  wie  des  Zukunftsstaats,  sie  wollten  eine 
"  Teilerei "  des  Vermogens  herbeifiihren,  mit  anderen  Worten : 
den  Besitzenden  etwas  nehmen,  um  es  den  Besitzlosen,  den 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      551 

Kapitalisten  und  Grundbesitzern,  um  es  den  Arbeitern  zu  geben, 
hat  Herr  Liebknecht  ganz  Recht.  Die  Beseitigung  von  Privat- 
eigentum  an  den  sachlichen  Produktions-  und  Arbeitsmittein 
hat  niemals  dieses  Ziel,  sondern  erstrebt  den  Uebergang  dieser 
Objecte  in  das  Gemeineigentum  der  "  Gesellschaft "  und  die 
Organisation  der  Volksvvirtschaft  auf  dieser  Rechtsgrundlage  ; 
daher  freilich  auch  mit  der  Folge  einer  anderen  Verteilung  der 
Produktionsertrage  an  die  Glieder  der  Volksgemeinschaft  als 
heute  unter  Renten  beziehende  Besitzende  und  Lohn  bezie- 
hende  Arbeiter.  Eine  allgemeine  Veranderung,  wie  sie  teil- 
weise  Maassregeln,  wie  Verstaatlichungen,  z.  B.  der  Eisen- 
bahneUy  auch  im  heutigen  Staate  mit  sich  gefuhrt  haben. 
Nicht  eine  "Teilerei,"  sondern  eine  andere  Einkommen- 
regelung  erstrebt  der  Sozialismus. 

Mit  Recht  verwahrt  sich  Herr  Liebknecht  auch  gegen  die 
Zumutung,  der  liberzeugte  Sozialist  miisse  bis  auf  das  Tiip- 
felchen  uber  dem  /  den  Plan  des  sozialistischen  Zukunftsstaats 
entworfen  haben  und  darlegen  konnen,  wenn  er  Anderen  die 
Moglichkeit  und  Zweckmassigkeit  der  Verwirklichung  dieser 
Gesellschaftsordnung  wolle  plausibel  machen.  Das  ist  von 
keinem  Billigdenkenden  zu  verlangen.  Aber  freilich  ist  deehalb 
doch  die  Frage,  ob  nun  dieser  Zukunftsstaat  auch  den 
psychischen  Gesetzen  des  Menschentums  entspreche,  eine  sehr 
wol  aufzuwerfende.  Und  auf  diese  Frage  lasst  sich  auch 
Herr  Liebknecht  wieder  so  wenig  als  seine  Vorganger  ein. 

Darin  liegt  aber  die  Schwache  aller  solchen  sozialistischen 
Ausfuhrungen.  Die  Widerlegung  dieser  oder  jener  unver- 
standigen,  mitunter  iappischen  Einwurfe  ist  ja  seitens  des 
Sozialismus  nicht  schwer.  Aber  damit  werden  nur  Windmiih- 
lengefechte  gefuhrt.  Jedem  Unbefangenen  und  jedem  ein 
wenig  Nachdenkenden,  ich  sollte  meinen  auch  jedem  Sozia- 
listen,  dem  nur  ob  seines  "Glaubens"  die  Fahigkeit  zur  eignen 
Gedankenkritik  nicht  ganz  entschwunden  ist,  bietet  die 
Verwirklichung  des  sozialistischen  Ziels,  die  Beseitigung  des 
Privateigentums  an  den  sachlichen  Produktionsmitteln — und 
das  ist  immer  der  Kernpunkt,  alles  Andere  ist  Folge  und 
Beiwerk — so  ausserordentlich  angreifbare  Seiten,  dass  der 
Gegner  wol  verlangen  kann  :  hie  Rhodus,  hie  salta.  Da 
aber  —  schweigt  der  Sozialist,  und    auch    Herr     Liebknecht 


552  COSMOPOLIS, 

kommt  mit  Ausfiihrungen  und  "  Widerlegungen,"  die  eben 
fur  die  Hauptfragen  selbst  wenig  oder  garnichts  bedeuten. 
Klarheit  besteht  weder  iiber  die  Voraussetzungen,  an  welche 
eine  Verwirklichung  jenes  sozialistischen  Zukunftsstaats  not- 
wendig  geknupft  ist,  noch  iiber  die  Mittel  und  Wege,  durch 
welche  und  auf  denen  das  Ziel  erreicht  werden  soil.  Und 
diese  Klarheit  darf  der  Gegner  nicht  nur,  diese  muss  er  auch 
verlangen.  Damit  besteht  er  keineswegs  auf  dem  "  Tupfelchen 
iiber  dem  /."  Wo  diese  Klarheit  fehlt,  darf  der  Vorwurf  in 
der  Tat  erhoben  werden,  der  Sozialist  umgehe  eben  einfach  die 
Kernpunkte  des  theoretischen,  des  gedankenmassigen,  wie  die 
Schwierigkeiten  des  praktischen  Problems  des  Zukunftsstaats. 

Ich  will  dafiir  ein  paar  Beispiele  dem  Liebknechtschen 
Aufsatz  entnehmen.  Spielend  wird  da  die  "  Frage  des  Stiefel- 
putzens"  und  die  Kloakenfrage  erledigt.  Aber,  wenn  es  selbst 
vollig  richtig  geschahe,  ware  damit  viel  fiir  die  Moglichkeit 
und  den  Erfolg  sozialistischer  Organisation  entschieden  ? 
Man  braucht  sich  bei  der  ersten  Frage  nicht  einmal  auf  so 
grosse  und  vornehme  Leute,  wie  amerikanische  Prasidenten 
und  Herrn  Liebknecht  selbst,  und  auf  die  Erfindung  von 
Stiefelputzmaschinen  zu  berufen.  Manche  feine  Dame  iiber- 
antwortet  ihr  feines  Schuhzeug  schon  jetzt  im  Reiseverkehr 
nicht  der  groben  Hand  und  schablonenmassigen  Putzweise 
des  biederen  Hausknechts,  sondern  —  putzt  ebenfalls  ihre 
Schuhe  selbst  mit  eignem  verwohnten  Handchen.  Liegt  aber 
in  solchen  anekdotenhaften  Beispielen  oder  in  der  Wasser- 
spiilung  der  Kloaken — wo  iibrigens  fiir  menschliche  Arbeit  an 
widerwartigen  Reinigungsarbeiten  auch  immer  noch  Manches 
zu  tun  iibrig  bleibt — irgend  eine  besondere  Beweiskraft  fur  die 
eigentliche  Hauptfrage  der  sozialistischen  Organisation  ? 
Schwerlich  ! 

Die  Stiefelputzfrage  ist  am  Ende  nur  eine  kleine,  nicht  be- 
sonders  schwierige  Spezialfrage  der  grossen  allgemeinen  — 
Dienstboten frage.  Man  braucht  nun  nicht  gleich  mit  H.  von 
Treitschke  in  dessen  pointirender  Redeweise  zu  rufen  :  "  Ohne 
Dienstboten  keine  Kultur  ! "  Man  kann,  und  muss,  aber  doch 
hervorheben,  dass  mit  dieser  Dienstbotenfrage  eine  allgemeine 
Schwierigkeit  fiir  den  Sozialstaat  beruhrt  wird,  iiber  deren 
Losung   uns    der    Sozialismus — nicht    einmal    eine  bekannte 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      5^3 

Ausfuhrung  des  anmutigen  Bellamy,  der  hier  gewisse  Alters- 
klassen  der  Bevolkerung  mit  solchen  Diensten  betrauen  will — 
nichts  Befriedigendes  zu  sagen  weiss.  Wie  soil  es  in  einem 
sozialistischen  Gemeinwesen  iiberhaupt  mit  der  Ausfuhrung 
niederer  Dienste  gehallen  werden  ?  Miissen  von  der  Selbst- 
ausiibung  solcher  Dienste  nicht  gewisse  Kreise,  Berufe, 
Personen  auch  hier,  nicht  in  ihrem  rein  personlichen,  sondern 
in  ihrem  wahren  Arbeitsinteresse  ganz  entbunden  werden, 
um  dieser  ihrer  Arbeit  ihre  Krafte  auch  im  gesellschaft lichen 
Gesamtinteresse  besser  widmen  zu  konnen  ?  Mit  '  dem 
ublichen,  von  Herrn  Liebknecht  wiederholten  Einwand,  dass 
der  Sozialist  keinen  qualitativen  Unterschied  zwischen  Hand- 
und  Kopfarbeit  anerkenne  und  mit  der  Binsenwahrheit,  dass 
dem  Kopfarbeiter  eine  gewisse  korperliche  Arbeit  und  Wechsel 
der  geistigen  mit  dieser  iiberhaupt  und  sogar  fur  seine  geistige 
Arbeit  nur  gut  tue,  ist  hier  wiederum  nicht  viel  bewiesen.  Es 
fragt  sich  eben  auch  noch  weiter,  ob  bestimmte  Arbeitsarten, 
wie  hohere  geistige,  wissenschaftliche,  kunstlerische,  nicht  an 
eine  gewisse  Lebensweise  und  Lebenssphare  psychologisch 
und  selbst  physiologisch  zu  ihrer  Bliite  gebunden  sind  und 
sonst  leicht  unentwickelt  bleiben  oder  verkiimmern.  Die 
weitere  Frage,  ob  und  wie  weit  einseitige  und  ausschliessliche 
Beschaftigung  mit  gewissen  Arbeiten  allein  Meisterschaft 
verburge,  der  vielfache  Wechsel  der  Beschaftigung  eben  nur 
zum  Dilettantismus  fiihre,  will  ich  nur  andeuten.  Der 
Sozialismus  hat  sie  niemals  ernstlich  erwogen. 

Die  "  Kloakenfrage  "  aber  ist  doch  wieder  nur  der  Spezialfall 
der  grossen  und  wichtigen  generellen  Frage  :  wie  wiirden  im 
"  Sozialstaat "  die  zahlreichen  schweren,  ermiidenden,  dumpf- 
mechanischen,  unangenehmen  Arbeiten,  welche  gerade  im 
Maschinenzeitalter  immer  ausgedehnter  werden,  geregelt  ? 
Arbeiten,  die  nicht  irgend  wie  in  sich  selbst  einen  Reiz  bieten, 
bei  denen  nicht  auf  ein  vom  Sozialismus  sonst  nicht  mit  Un- 
recht,  aber  wieder  viel  zu  allgemein  in  seinen  Erorterungen 
und  Organisationsplanen  verwendetes  psychologisches  Motiv, 
die  Lust  an  der  Arbeit  selbst,  die  Freude  am  Tatigsein  dabei, 
mindestens  an  den  werdenden  und  fertigen  Arbeitsergebnis- 
sen,  von  der  Entlohnung  ganz  abgesehen,  wie  allerdings  sonst 
in    manchen    Fallen,    zuriickgegriffen    werden    kann.      Jetzt 


554  COSMOPOLIS. 

werden  diese  Arbeiten  durch  stumpfe  Gewohnung  ertraglich, 
unter  Umstanden — keineswegs  immer,  oft  sind  sie  selbst  die 
schlechtest  bezahlten, — durch  genugenden  Lohn  vergolten  und 
wol  Oder  iibel  aus  Not,  in  dem  darin  liegenden  psychischen 
Zwang  ubernommen.  Aber  weder  von  Zwang,  noch  von 
Privatinteresse,  noch  gar  von  Hunger  und  Not  soil  ja  ira 
Zukunftsstaat,  wie  uns  versichert  wird,  die  Rede  sein,  vollends 
nicht  mit  solchen  Mitteln  die  Uebernahme  von  Arbeiten  durch 
die,  wie  auch  Herr  Liebknecht  uns  wieder  sagt,  durchaus 
frei  handelnden  Individuen  erreicht  werden.  Von  den  Fort- 
schritten  der  naturwissenschaftlich  begriindeten  Technik  wird 
ja  vom  Sozialismus  viel  erwartet.  Aber  wie  sich  schon  bisher 
gezeigt,  menschliche  Arbeit  wird  dadurch  nicht  so  wol 
entbehrlich,  als  in  ihrer  Art  geandert,  ofters  als  kraftgebender 
Faktor  ersetzt,  aber  als  leitender,  kontrollirender,  um  so 
wichtiger,  gerade  aber  in  Arten  und  Formen,  in  welchen 
sich  die  Arbeit  "  mechanisirt "  und  dadurch,  so  wie  durch  die 
daneben  doch  selbst  in  steigendem  Maasse  verlangte  Aufmerk- 
samkeit  und  PiinktHchkeit  des  Arbeiters  ermudender  wird. 
Bellamy,  Rebel  u.  a.  m.  helfen  sich  hier  durch  das  Prinzip  der 
Abkurzung  aller  Arbeit  i'lberhaupt  und  solcher  ermudender 
insbesondere,  durch  den  Normalarbeitstag  von  noch  viel 
weniger  als  acht  Stunden.  Das  sei  bei  gesteigerter  Leistungs- 
fahigkeit  der  technischen  Apparate,  "  Verintensivirung "  der 
Arbeit,  bei  allgemeiner  Arbeitspflicht  Aller  ausreichend,  um 
viel  mehr  und  bessere  Giiter  fiir  Aller  Bediirfnisse  als  in  der 
Gegenwart  zu  beschafFen.  Sie  recurriren  femer  auf  das 
Prinzip  des  ofteren  Wechsels  der  Arbeitskrafte  bei  solchen 
mechanischen  ermudenden  Arbeiten. 

Herr  Liebknecht  fiihrt  Derartiges  nicht  aus,  mag  aber  an 
Aehnliches  denken.  Er  philosophirt  im  Uebrigen  uber  den 
naturlichen  Arbeitstrieb,  der  einem  Jeden  angeboren  sei,  in 
Jedem  stecke,  der  keines  kiinstlichen  Anreizes,  nur  der 
Anregung  bediirfe,  denkt  an  die  bessere  Verwertung  der  dann 
zulassigen  Kinderarbeit  im  Sozialstaat,  nennt  die  Annahme 
falsch,  dass  mit  dem  Privatinteresse  der  Tatigkeitstrieb 
verschwinden  wiirde,  das  sei  durch  Tatsachen  widerlegt,  eine 
Verleumdung  der  menschlichen  Natur.  Aber — er  argumentirt 
in    alien   solchen    Gedankengangen    doch    wieder    wie    alle 


ZUK  KRITIK  DBS  SOZIALISTlSCHEN  ;i^UKUNFTSSTAATS.      555 

Sozialisten,  z.  B.  auch  Bebel  in  der  **  Frau/'  mit  schillernden 
Halbwahrheiten  und  umgeht  abermals  die  Cardinalfragen,  wie 
ohne  Zwang  gegen  das  Individuum,  ohne  Mitanwendung  des 
Privatinteresses  "  freiwillig  "  von  den  leitenden  Behorden,  dem 
"  Arbeitsamt "  und  seinen  Organen,  das  Arbeitspersonal  iiber- 
haupt  fur  jede  Art  bedurfter  Arbeit,  zur  erforderlichen  Zeit,  am 
erforderlichen  Ort,  und  voUends  fiir  lastige,  unangenehme, 
widerwartige  Arbeiten  beschafft  werden  soil.  Diese  Fragen 
werden  wieder  nirgends  klar  und  offen  aufgeworfen,  so  sehr 
sic  bei  ein  Bischen  ernster  gedankenmassiger  Beschaftigung 
mit  dem  Problem  des  Zukunftsstaats  jedem  Unbefangenen  so- 
fort  auftauchen.  Eine  Erorterung  und  Beantwortung  ausser 
den  paar  angedeuteten  Bemerkungen — ebensoviel  willkurlichen, 
unbewiesenen,  Behauptungen  iiber  eine  ausreichende  Function 
des  natiirlichen  Arbeitstriebs — finden  sich  nicht. 

Der  nicht  unrichtige  Hinweis,  dass  schon  im  heutigen 
Klassenstaat  der  biirgerlichen  Oekonomie  das  Privatinteresse 
im  Staatsdienst,  in  wissenschaftlicher  und  kunstlerischer 
Arbeit  eine  geringere  RoUe  spiele  und  mit  steigender  Bildung 
und  Sittlichkeit  allgemein  eine  immer  geringere  spielen 
werde,  beweist  eben  nichts  fiir  die  ungeheuere  Masse  der 
mechanischen  Handarbeit  u.  s.  w.,  die  unter  alien  Umstanden 
in  jeder  Volkswirtschaft  zu  leisten  ist.  Bei  jenen  hoheren 
Arbeitsarten  kann  und  wird  das  Lastmoment  allerdings  durch 
das  Lustmoment,  durch  die  Freude  an  der  Arbeit  selbst  und 
an  deren  Fortschritten  und  Ergebnissen,  auch  mehr  oder 
weniger  oder  selbst  vollig  ohne  Riicksicht  auf  den  Lohn, 
aufgewogen.  Bei  der  Masse  der  gewohnlichen  Arbeiten  in 
der  materiellen  Produktion  liegen  die  Dinge  ganz  anders, 
auch  psychologisch  viel  ungiinstiger. 

Auch  eine  besondere  Eigentiimlichkeit  gerade  der  modernen, 
auf  Arbeitsteilung  und  Maschinenbenutzung,  Motoren  wie 
Werkzeugmaschinen,  beruhenden  Produktion  muss  hier  noch 
hervorgehoben  werden,  um  so  mehr,  da  eine  solche  Produk- 
tionsweise  nach  der  Lehre  der  Sozialisten  in  Zukunft  erst 
vollends  zur  herrschenden  werden  soil.  Im  Unterschied  von 
der  "  klcinburgerlichen "  Produktionsweise,  wie  im  friiheren 
Handwerk,  wo  der  einzelne  Arbeiter  ein  "  Ganzes  "  herstelltc, 
wird  in  der  jetzigen  und  zukiinftigen  indusiriellen  Produktion 


550  COSMOPOLIS. 

immer  mehr  jede  grossere  Arbeitsaufgabe  fiir  die  einzelnen  dabei 
beschaftigten  Arbeiter  in  eine  Menge  kleiner  Verrichtungen 
zerlegt,  bei  welchen  der  Hinblick  aiif  das  Ganze  dem  Eizelnen 
vollig  verschwindet.  Damit  wird  das  psychische  Moment  der 
Freude  an  der  Arbeit  iind  ihrem  Fortschritt,  ihren  Ergebnissen 
immer  schwacher  wirksam.  Es  miissen  desto  mehr  andere 
Momente  in  Kraft  treten,  wenn  das  fast  allein  noch  empfun- 
dene  Lastmoment  in  der  Arbeit  aufgewogen  vverden  soil.  Wo 
Hndet  der  Sozialismus  jene  anderen  Momente  ?  Seine  vollig 
mangelhafte  okonomische  Psychologie  gibt  uns  darauf  keine 
andere  Antwort  als  ein  paar  optimistische  Phrasen. 

Bei  einer  solchen  "  Beweisfuhrung  "  muss  der  Sozialist  den 
Einwurf  gewartigen  :  Ihr  operirt  eben  mit  einem  Menschen- 
tum,  als  Eurem  zozialen  Baumaterial,  das  aller  Erfahning 
widerspricht,  und  wenn  man  auch  das  einwendet,  so  kommt 
Ihr  mit  der  Redensart:  "  unsere  Menschen  im  Zukunftsstaat 
vverden  den  hier  zu  stellenden  Anforderungen  schon 
entsprechen,  werden  sich  von  ganz  anderen  Motiven  als 
die  heutigen  Menschenkinder — und  alie  vergangenen  Ge- 
schlechter  ! — bestimmen  lassen."  Das  sind  jene  Axiome,  jene 
Glaubenssatze,  fiir  die  jede  Begriindung  fehlt.  Den  Gegnern 
wird  vom  Sozialisten  da  eben  auch  nur  ein  sacrificio  del' 
intelletto  zugemutet,  wie  es  der  Sozialist  hier — gleichviel  ob 
bewusst  Oder  unbewusst — gebracht  hat,  er  muss  das  Alles 
**  glauben," —  quia  >absurdum  est ;  womit  wir  dann  wieder 
ein  hubsches  Beispiel  dafiir  hiitten,  wie  die  Extreme  sich 
beriihren. 

Adolph  Wagnek 
Berlin,  Januar  1898. 

(Forfseizung  folgt,) 


BRIEFE   AUS    RO\t 


AX  DKN  HERRN  RKDACTEUR  DER  COSMOPOfJS. 

Verehrter  Herr  ! 

II. 

SCHWIERIGER  noch  als  die  in  meinem  ersten  Brief  skizzirte 

Erweiterung  von  Rom   durch    Erbauung  von   neuen   Stadt- 

vierteln  war  die  Aufgabe,  die  bereits  vor  der  Vereinigung  mit 

Italien  vorhandene  Altstadt  so  umzugestalten,  dass  sie,   ohne 

an    ihrem    historisch  -  monumentalen    Charakter    wesentlich 

einzubussen,    den     Anforderungen     der     Hauptstadt    eines 

modernen  Grossstaates  zu  genugen  vermochte.    Wie  wenig 

dies    vor    1870    in    Beziehung    auf    alle    Bedingungen    des 

grossstadtischen  Lebeiis  unserer  Zeit,  namentlich  hinsichtlich 

der  Gesundheitspflege   und  des  Schutzes  vor  Ueberschwem- 

mungen  der  Fall  war,  steht  so  lebendig  in  der  Erinnerung 

AUer,  die  das  Rom  der  Papste  gekannt  haben,  dass  ich  mich 

darauf  beschranken  konnte,  es  kurz  anzudeuten,      SoUte  zur 

Sanirung  und   zum  Schutze  von  Alt-Rom  Wirksames  getan 

werden,  so  waren   zwei   grosse   Werke  zu   vollbringen.      Es 

musste  erstens  in  den  Korper  der  Altstadt  mit  kundiger  und 

schonender,  aber  fester  Hand  eingegriffen  werden,  um  ihm 

durch  Anlegung  von  breiten  Verkehrsadern  Licht,  Luft  und 

Zuganglichkeit  zu  verschaffen.      Es  musste  zweitens  durch 

eine  grundliche  Regulirung  des  Tibers  und  Verbesserung  der 

stadtischen  Abfliisse  Sicherheit  vor  den  periodisch  wiederkeh- 

renden  Ueberschwemmun  en  der  Stadt  hergestellt  werden. 

Die  Losung  der  einen  wie  der  anderen  Aufgabe  war  an  sich 

nicht  leicht.      Sie  wurde  dadurch   noch   erschwert,   dass  sie 

gleichzeitig  mit  all  den  anderen   Herkulesarbeiten  in  Angriff 

genommen  werden  mjusste,  welche  dem  fiir  so  harte  Anstren- 

gungen     wenig    geschulten     Volk    durch     seine    politische 
VOL.  IX.— NO.  nvi.  V^ 


558  COSMOPOLIS. 

Wiedergeburt  auferlegt  worden  waren.  Als  Paris  durch  die 
Napoleoniden  zu  einer  modernen  Stadt  umgeschaffen  wurde, 
hatten  die  Franzosen  mehr  als  drei  Jahrhunderte  politischer 
Einheit  hinter  sich.  In  England,  das  diese  Einheit  mehr  als 
tausend  Jahre  besitzt  und  das  seit  der  normannischen 
Eroberung  keinen  auswartigen  Feind  auf  seinem  Boden 
gesehen  hat,  ist  man  im  neunzehnten  Jahrhundert  an  die 
Themseregulirung  herangegangen  ;  das  Londoner  Embank- 
ment, welches  nur  einen  Teil  des  linken  Ufers  innerhalb  der 
Stadt  umfasst,  wird  mit  Recht  zu  den  grossartigsten  Bauwerken 
der  Neuzeit  gezahlt. 

In  Frankreich  war  fiir  den  Entwurf  und  die  Ausfiihrung 
des  Erneuerungswerkes  der  unbeschninkte  Wille  absoluter 
Herrscher  maassgebend.  Englaqd  besitzt  seit  vielen  Jahrhun- 
derten  ein  Verfassungsleben,  an  welches  die  Nation  so  gewohnt 
ist  wie  an  die  Luft,  in  der  sie  atmet,  und  welches  demzufolge 
alien  Kraften  freien  Spielraum  gewiihrt.  Italien  ist  bis  1859 
in  sieben  Staaten  der  verschiedenartigsten  BeschafTenheit 
zersplittert  gewesen,  zu  einem  grossen  Teil  erst  durch  die 
Kriege  von  1859  und  1866  der  Fremdherrschaft  entledigt 
worden  und  hat  seine  Konstituirung  als  Einheitsstaat  erst 
durch  die  Besetzung  von  Rom  vollendet.  Trotz  ihrer 
Jugend  besitzt  die  italienische  Nation  eine  Verfassung, 
auf  welchc  sic  stolz  ist,  cine  Verfassung  nach  jenem  konstitu- 
tionellen  Muster,  das  dem  Herrscher  in  der  Wahl  seiner 
Minister  enge  Schranken  zieht  und  die  Dauer  der  Ministerien 
von  dem  Besitz  der  Majoritat  in  der  Kammer  abhangig  macht. 
Wie  sehr  durch  diesen  Zustand  das  Gelingen  grosser 
andauernder  Werke  erschwert,  wie  sehr  die  Einheitlichkeit 
ihrer  Ausfiihrung  durch  den  raschen  Wechsel  der  maassge- 
benden  Personen  gefahrdet  wird,  bedarf  keiner  weiteren 
Erlauterung. 

Die  allergrosste  Schwierigkeit  liegt  aber  in  Roms  Boden- 
beschaffenheit  und  Bauart.  Berlin  und  London,  Moskau  und 
Petersburg  stehen  auf  Bodenfllachen,  auf  denen  regehnassige 
Strassennetze  leicht  zu  entwerfen  und  auszufuhren  waren.  In 
Paris  ist  es  dem  souveranen  Willen  des  Kaisers  moglich 
gewesen,  durch  das  Strassengewirr  der  alten  Stadt  breite 
Breschen  wie  mit  dem  Lineal  hindurchzuziehen.    Aber  Rom 


BRIEFE   AITS   ROM.  559 

hat  sich  urn  seine  Hujjel,  die  vierzig  unci  fiinfzig  Meter 
hoch  fiber  der  Tiberniederung  aufragen  und  in  dieser  selbst 
keineswegs  ganz  ebenen  Niederung  derartig  fiber-,  um-  und 
durcheinander  zusamm^n  geknault,  dass  es  hier  kaum  eine 
vorhandene  oder  denkbare  Strassenlinie  gibt,  die  nicht  man- 
nigfache,  zum  Teil  ganz  betrachtliche  Niveau-Unterschiede 
aufzuweisen  hatte.  Die  Strassen  der  Altstadt  lassen  in  ihren 
sonst  unerklarlichen  Kurven,  in  der  Verzwicktheit  ihrer 
Kreuzungen  noch  heute  vielfach  den  Grundriss,  manchmal 
auch  noch  die  Reste  der  Romerbauten  erkennen,  um  welche 
sie  sich  gruppirt  haben  oder  in  deren  Ruinen  sie  entstan- 
den  sind.  An  der  Stelle  und  vielfach  unter  Benutzung  von 
Bauteilen  der  antiken  Tempel,  Theater,  Circusanlagen  u.s.w. 
erheben  sich  Basiliken  vonhoher  geschichtlicher  und  kunst- 
lerischer  Bedeutung.  Endlich  reihen  sich  in  diesen  engen 
Strassen  die  Palfiste  des  romischen  Adels,  auch  unter  ihnen 
Baudenkmaler  von  grosstem  Wert,  dicht  aneinander.  Das  ist 
kein  Boden,  auf  welchem  mit  Strassendurchbrfichen,  Nieder- 
legungen,  Schaffung  von  Platzen  und  Prospekten  radikal  a  la 
Haussmann  vorgegangen  werden  kann. 

Ich  habe  mir  erlauben  mussen,  auf  diese  Dinge  gleich  vor- 
weg  etwas  naher  einzugehen,  weil  sie  die  Voraussetzungen 
bilden,  unter  denen  Roms  Erneuerung  im  Innern  der  Stadt 
vor  sich  gegangen  ist,  und  weil  ihre  Kenntnis  fur  die  unbe- 
fangene  Wfirdigung  des  bisher  Geleisteten  schlechthin  uner- 
Ifisslich  ist.  Sehen  wir  nun  zunachst,  was  zur  Aufschliessung 
der  Altstadt  seit  1870  geschehen  ist. 

Bis  ins  Innere  von  Alt-Rom  dringen  die  neuen  grossen  Ver- 
kehrsstrassen,  welche  von  den  neuen  Stadtteilen  auf  der 
Hochebene  hinter  dem  Quirinal  und  dem  Esquilin  hinabziehen, 
die  Via  del  venti  Settembre  und  die  Via  Nazionale.  Beide 
treffen  am  Abhange  des  Quirinals  zusammen  und  erreichen, 
durch  das  starke  Bodengefall  zu  mehrfachen  Krummungen 
genotigt,  am  Venetianischen  Platz  den  Ausgangspunkt  des 
Corso,  der  Hauptstrasse  der  Altstadt.  Zur  Entlastung  der  Via 
Nazionale  vom  Wagenverkehr  ist  ziemlich  parallel  mit  ihr  eine 
dritte  grosse  Verkehrsader  geschaffen  worden,  die  Via  Cavour, 
welche  vom  Bahnhofs- Platz  auf  der  Hohe  des  Esquilins  fiber 
den  schonen  Platz  bei  S.  Maria  Maggiore  in  gerader  Richtucv^ 


560  COSMOPOLIS. 

abwiirts  fiihrt  iind  dann  in  der  Senkungzwischen  dem  Esquilin 
und  dem  Viminal,  teils  auf  Ueberbruckungen,  teils  mit  starken 
Durchbruchen,  in  das  Gassengewirr  um  das  Forum  ein- 
schneidet.  Sie  soil  spater  durch  Verbreiterung  und  Niederle- 
gung  einiger  dieser  engen  Gassen  ebenfalls  bis  zur  Piazza  di 
Venezia  verlangert  werden. 

Von  diesem  Platz  entspringt  auch  diejenige  Strasse,  durch 
welche,   mitten   durch   den  Korper   der  Altstadt,  eine  breite 
Verkehrsbahn   hergestellt   ist,   der  Corso  Vittorio  Emanuele. 
Der  Durchfuhrung  seiner  Anlage,  der  kuhnsten  und  woltatig- 
sten  in  Alt-Rom,  stellten  sich  zwar  geringere  Terrainschwierig- 
keiten  entgegen  als  in  den  bisher  erwahnten  Fallen,  wol  aber 
die   erheblichsten   monumentalen    Hindernisse.    Gleich  nach 
seinem  Anfang  muss  der  neue  Corso  sich  zwischen  der  machti- 
gen  Hauptkirche  der  Jesuiten  und  dem  riesigen  Palast  Altieri, 
in   welchem   bis  zu   der   noch  in  ferner  Zukunft  stehenden 
Vollendung  des  neuen  Justizpalastes  die  obersten  Gerichtshofe 
ihren  Sitz  gef unden  haben,  wie  durch  einen  Engpass  hindurch- 
winden.     Dann  wird  sie  durch  die  Gebaudegruppe,  in  welcher 
der  Palast  der  romischen  Bank  und  ein  Hauptheiligtum  der 
Franziskaner,  S.  Francesco  dello  Stimmate,  dicht  beisammen 
stehen,  zu  einer  Ausweichung  nach  links  genotigt,  bis  ihr  der 
Kuppelbau  von  S.  Andrea  della  Valle  wieder  eine  Ausbiegung 
nach  rechts  vorschreibt.     Und  so  zieht  sich  die  schdne  breite 
Strasse  bis  zum  Tiberufer  hin,  rechts  und  links  an  fast  ununter- 
brochenen   Keihen   hervorragender   Bauwerke   voruber;    ich 
nenne  nur  den  reizenden  Palast  der  Massimi  delle  Colonne,  die 
imposante  Gruppe,  zu  der  sich  Bramantes  edle  Cancelleria  mit 
der  Kirche  S.  Lorenzo  in  Damaso  vereinigt,  den  Palast  der 
Herzoge  Sforza-Cesarini,  die  Kirchbauten  von  S.  Pantaleo  und 
der  Chiesa  nuova.     Die  sanften  Kurven,  die  sie  beschreibt,  die 
wechselvollen  Aus-  und  Riickblicke,  die  sich  daraus  ergeben, 
einzelne  Baumgruppen  und  etliche  Standbilder  erhdhen  den 
malerischen  Reiz,  der  diese  grosste  und  gelungenste  der  neuen 
Strassenanlagen  in  Alt-Rom  umgibt. 

Mit  dem  Corso  Vittorio  Emanuele  stehen  mehrere  andere 
Strassen  in  Verbindung,  die  zur  Verbesserung  der  Altstadt  teils 
schon  ausgefuhrt,  teils  geplant  sind.  Vollendet  ist  die  Via 
Arenula,  die  sich  links  von  ihm  abzweigt  und  mitten  durch 


BRIEFE   AUS   ROM.  56 1 

das  engste  und  schmutzigste  Gassengewirr  eine  breite  Bahn 
gebrochen  hat.  Welch  kolossale  Veranderung  durch  diese 
Anlage  in  dem  schlimmsten  und  ungesundesten  Teil  von  Alt- 
Rom  geschaifen  worden  ist,  ahnen  die  meisten  Rombesucher 
nicht,  die  an  dem  mit  Palmen  besetzten  Schmuckgarten  der 
Piazza  Benedetto  Cairoli  vorbei  durch  die  breite  stattliche 
Strasse  und  iiber  die  neue  Garibaldi-Briicke  hinweg  ihre 
Nachmittags-Spazirfahrt  zur  Villa  Doria  Pamphili  oder  zur 
Promenade  der  Konigin  machen.  Sie  ahnen  nichts  davon, 
welche  Summe  von  Schmutz  und  Elend  sich  in  den  niedergeleg- 
ten  Gassen  des  Rione  Regola  und  dem  anstossenden  vollig  vom 
Erdboden  verschwundenen  Judenviertel  Jahrhunderte  hindurch 
zusammengehauft  hatte.  Wer  sich  davon  eine  einigermaassen 
annahernde  Vorstellung  machen  will,  der  kann  sie  noch 
jetzt  erhalten,  wenn  er  rechts  von  der  Via  Arenula  in  den  nocli 
vorhandenen  Rest  der  Regola/  etwa  bis  zum  Ponte  Sisto 
hindurchdringt.  Oder  noch  besser,  wenn  er  da,  wo  einst  die 
Gitterthore  des  Ghetto  standen,  von  der  Wehklagenstrasse  (Via 
del  Pianto)  aus  in  die  Gassen  einzutauchen  wagt,  die  um  den 
von  schrecklichen  Erinnerungen  heimgesuchten,  im  argsten 
Verfall  begriffenen  Palast  der  Cenci  herumfiihren. 

Noch  unvollendet,  zum  Teil  noch  gar  nicht  begonncn  sind 
die  StrassendurchbriJche,  die  vom  Corso  Vittorio  Emanuele 
nach  rechts  zur  Piazza  Navona  und  von  dort  zu  dem  sclioneii 
neuen  Ponte  Umberto,  sowie  nach  links  von  dem  Platz  vor 
der  Chiesa  nuova  zum  Ponte  alle  Lungara  fiihren  soUen.  Im 
Anschluss  an  diese  neuen  Strassen  sind  weitere  Durchbriiche 
geplant,  welche  den  bisher  nur  auf  engcn  Gassen  erreichbaren 
Campo  di  Fiori  und  den  schonen  Platz  vor  dem  stolzen  Palast 
der  Farnese  durch  breite  Strassen  mit  dem  Tiberufer  und  mit 
den  bereits  vollendeten  Verkehrsadern  in  Verbindung  setzen 
sollen.  Wie  schlechthin  notwendig  diese  Durchbriiche  sind, 
davon  kann  sich  Jeder  uberzeugen,  der  das  Wagengedrange  zu 
den  Stunden  des  Gemiisemarktes  um  den  Campo  di  Fiori 
henim,  etwa  in  der  Via  Cappellari,  jetzt  trotz  ihrer  furchter- 
lichen  Enge  noch  immer  eine  Hauptverkehrsader  Alt-Roms, 
mitangesehen  hat. 

Eine    ungemein    wichtige   Verkehrserleichterung,    die    der 
Altstadt  wie  den  neuen    Stadtteilen  am    Pincio    und  auf  der 


562  COSMOPOLIS. 

Hohe  des  Quirinals  in  gleichetn  Maasse  zu  statten  kommt,  ist 
die  Durchfuhrung  der  Via  del  Tritone  bis  zum  Corso.  Diese 
Strasse,  die  einzige  praktikable  Verbindung  zwischen  den  hoch- 
gelegenen  Quartieren  im  Norden  und  der  Unterstadt,  verlief 
sich  friiher  in  einem  Knauel  von  engen  und  krummen  Gassen. 
Jetzt  fuhrt  sie  in  gerader  Linie  von  der  Piazza  Barberini  bis 
zum  Corso  und  hat  in  dem  neu  angelegten  Teil  eine  ausrei- 
chende  Breite  erhalten.  Bei  dem  ungewohnlich  starken  Ver- 
kehr,  der  sich  von  der  fruhesten  Morgenstunde bis  indie  Nacht 
hinein  auf  der  Via  del  Tritone  bewegt,  wird  es  sich  nicht 
umgehen  lassen,  sie  auch  in  dem  oberen  Teil  zu  verbreitern. 

Teils  fiir  Verkehrszwecke,  teils  aber  aus  dekorativen  Ruck- 
sichten  ist  eine  Vergrosserung  der  Platze  um  das  Pantheon 
und  um  die  Fontana  di  Trevi,  sowie  die  Herstellung  einer 
breiten  Verbindungsstrasse  zwischen  beiden,  also  dem  herrlich- 
sten  Bauwerk  des  Altertums  und  der  schonsten  Brunnenanlage 
Roms  geplant.  Ein  Teil  dieser  Anlage,  die  breite  Strasse 
Marco  Minghetti,  welche  an  der  Seitenfagade  des  Palastes 
Sciarra  vom  Corso  bis  in  die  Nahe  der  Fontana  di  Trevi  fuhrt, 
ist  bereits  in  Ausfiihrung  begriflen.  Dagegen  ist  eine  zweite, 
ebenso  sehr  Verkehrs-  als  asthetischen  Zwecken  dienende 
Anlage,die  Ervveiterung  der  Strassen  Montanara  und  Campitelli, 
mit  Freilegung  des  Marcellus-Theaters  und  des  Porticus  der 
Octavia,  noch  nicht  begonnen.  Dixs  Gleiche  ist,  und  ich  setze 
hinzu  gliicklicherweise,  mit  dem  Vorhaben  der  Fall,  samtliche 
Gebaude  zwischen  dem  alten  und  dem  neuen  Borgo,  den 
beiden  Zufahrtsstrassen  zum  Peters-Platz,  niederzulegen  und 
hierdurch  nicht  nur  den  schon  jetzt  riesengrossen  Peters-Platz 
bis  an  den  Tiber  hin  zu  verhingern,  sondern  den  Blick  auf  die 
Peterskirche  auf  weite  Entfernung  hin  freizulegen.  Ich  halte 
dies  Vorhaben  fur  verfehlt,  weil  ich  glaube,  dass  die  Wirkung 
des  kolossalen  Bauwerkes  dadurch  nicht  vermehrt,  sondern 
verringert  werden  wiirde,  und  weil  ich  die  Herstellung  einer 
so  langen  schattenlosen  Zufahrt  im  Interesse  der  zahlreichen 
Besucher  S.  Peters  nur  bedauern  konnte.  Hoffentlich  lasst 
man  diese  ungliickliche  Idee,  deren  Vervvirklichung  uberdies 
unverhaltnismassig  viel  Geld  kosten  wiirde,  ganz  und  gar 
fallen. 

Um  was  fi'ir  Summen  es  sich  bei  den  Strassenanlagen  zur 


BRIEFE   AUS   ROM.  *  5O3 

Verbesserung  der  Altstadt  handelt,  dafiir  mochte  ich,  ohne  allzu 
sehr  auf  das  Gebiet  der  Finanzverwaltung  des  S.P.Q.R. 
abzuschweifen,  wenigstens  einige  Ziffern  mitteilen.  Sie  sind 
dera  Bericht  entnommen,  den  die  damaligen  Minister  Crispi 
und  Saracco  im  Jahre  1894  dem  Parlament  iiber  den  Gang 
der  "opere  edilizie  nella  Capitale  del  Regno"  erstattet  haben. 
Danach  hat  die  rotnische  Stadtverwaltung  ausgegeben  :  Fiir 
die  Errichtiing des  Corso  Vittorio  Emanuele  iSMillionen  Lire, 
fur  die  Via  Arenula  7  Millionen,  fiir  die  Niederlegung  des 
Ghetto  7^2  Millionen,  fiir  die  Erweiterung  der  Via  del  Tritone 
7?i  Millionen.  Die  Hohe  dieser  Kosten  wird  begreiflich,  wenn 
man  vor  Augen  sieht,  wie  eng  die  Hauser  sich  in  den  noch 
unregulirt  gebliebenen  Strassenziigen  zusammendnlngen,  und 
wie  dicht  sie  bewohnt  sind  ;  man  kann  sich  daraus  leicht  einen 
Begriff  von  den  Entschiidigungen  machen,  die  fiir  die  Expro- 
priation der  erbarmlichsten  alten  Baracken  gezahlt  werden 
mussten. 

So  gross  und  so  woltatig  die  Veraixderung  ist,  welche  Alt- 
Rom  durch  diese  Umgestaltung  seines  Strassennetzes  bereits 
erfahren  hat  und  noch  zu  erfahren  im  Begriflf  ist,  so  wird  sie 
doch  bei  weitem  i'lbertroffen  durch  das  grandiose  Werk  der 
Tiberregulirung.  Dem  Bilde  der  Umgestaltung  Roms  verleiht 
dies  Werk  den  starksten  charaktervoUsten  Zug.  Der  Tiber,  zu 
dessen  beiden  Seiten  die  Stadt  sich  ausbreitet  und  der  sie  in 
starken  Kriimmungen  in  einem  Gesamtlauf  von  nahezu  fiinf 
Kilometern  durchstromt,  ist  wegen  der  nahen  Verbindung  mit 
dem  Meere  stctseincder  Wurzeln  von  Roms  Macht  und  Grosse, 
abcr  wegen  seines  periodisch  wicderkehrenden  Hochwassers 
immcr  ein  gefiihrlichcr  Nachbar  gewcscn.  Bis  in  die  allcsten 
Zeiten  rcichen  die  Nachricliten  vun  den  Ueberschwcmmungcn, 
mit  denen  seine  durch  die  Winterregengiisse  machtig  anschwel- 
lenden  F^luten  Rom  in  raschen  Intervallen  heimzusuchen 
pHegen,  und  zahlreich  sind  schon  aus  dem  Altertum  die 
Klagen  i'lber  die  schweren  Schiidcn,  die  argen  Verwustungen, 
welche  durch  diese  Wassernote  angerichtct  wurden. 

Vidimus  llavuni  Tibmin,  rclortis 
Litorc  Ktrusco  vclicmcntcr  unciis. 
Ire  clejectum  monumciitii  rc^is 
Tcm  plaque  Vcstiu 

sagt    Horaz   (i.  2.)   von   der    Ueberschwemmung  des    Jahres 


564  COSMOPOLIS. 

31  V.  Chr.  Bald  darauf  wurde  eine  andere  der  Anlass  zu 
einer  Beratun^  im  romischen  Senat  fiber  die  Mittel,  durch 
welche  der  "  blonde  Tiber"  geziigelt  und  der  Wiederkehr  seiner 
Ausschreitungen  vorgebeugt  werden  konnte.  Nach  reiflichster 
Ueberlegung  beschloss  das  hohe  Collegium,  ut  in  sententiam 
Pisonis  concederetur,  qui  nil  mutandum  censuerat.  Zu 
demselben  resignirten  Ergebnis  haben  1800  Jahre  lang  alle 
Anliiufe  gef iihrt,  die  von  Kaisern  und  Papsten  gemacht  warden, 
um  Rom  vor  den  Tiberwellen  zu  schutzen.  Inzwischen  fuhren 
die  Chronisten  fort,  jede  grossere  Ueberschwcmmung  —  etwa 
alle  zwanzig  Jahr  eine  —  zu  verzeichnen,  und  an  den  Wanden 
der  Kirchen  und  Palaste  sowie  an  den  Strassenecken  ver- 
mehrten  sich  die  Denksteine,  die  als  Merkzeichen  besonders 
hoher  Wasserstiinde  angebracht  wurden.  Wahrend  der  Ueber- 
schwemmung  vom  23.  Dezember  1598,  der  grossten,  von  der 
wir  Nachricht  haben,  errcichtc  der  Tiber  eine  Hohe  von  mehr 
als  13  Meter  iiber  deni  mittlcrcn  Stande.  Mit  Staunen  haben 
sicher  viele  Besucher  Roms  im  Hausflur  des  Palastes  Serlupi, 
in  dessen  erstem  Stockwerk  der  deutsche  Kunstlerverein  seine 
Sitzungen  halt,  die  Inschrift  gelesen,  die  etwa  drei  Meter  uber 
dem  Kussboden  an  dies  denkwurdige  Ereignis  erinnert. 

Kaum  warcn  die  Italiener  durch  die  Brcsche  bei  Porta  Pia 
in  Rom  eingezogcn,  als  sich  in  der  letzten  Dezemberwochc 
iSyo  der  Tiber  wieder  mit  einer  Wassermasse  uber  Rom 
ergoss,  wie  sie  seit  Jahrhunderten  nicht  dagewesen  war.  Am 
28.  Dezember  zeigtc  der  Pegel  am  oberen  Ende  der  Stadt,  der 
bei  niedrigem  Wasser  5,70  m.,  bei  mittlerem  Stande  6,64  m. 
angibt,  den  schreckenerregenden  Stand  von  17,225  m.  Die 
Romer  sahen  mit  Grausen,  wie  dies  miichtige  Hochwasser  die 
weiten  Ebenen  im  Norden  vor  der  Stadt  bedeckte  und  mit 
unwiderstehlicherGewalt  durch  die  Porta  del  Popolo  eindrang, 
um  den  Corso  in  seiner  ganzen  Ausdehnung  in  einen  reis- 
senden  Strom  zu  verwandeln. 

In  den  niedriger  gelegenen  Stadtteilen  stand  das  schmutzige 
Wasser  zwei  bis  drei  Meter,  an  den  Schwellen  des  Pantheon 
fast  vier  Meter  hoch  iiber  dem  Strassenpflaster.  Dazu  wurden 
die  Abzugskanale,  die  samtlich  in  den  Tiber  miinden,  durch 
das  Hochwasser  am  Abfluss  verhindert  und  zuriickgestaut ;  sie 
sprengten    ihre    Deckel  und    entleerten    ihren    Inhalt  in  die 


BRIEFE  AUS   ROM.  565 

Fluten,  die  von  dem  grossten  Teil  der  Stadt  Besitz  ergriffen 
hatten. — Es  war,  als  ob  der  Fluss  die  neuen  Herren  von  Rom 
handgreiflichst  an  die  Pflichten  erinnern  woUte,  die  ihnen 
gegen  die  evvige  Stadt  oblagen. 

Die  italienische  Regirung  zeigte  alsbald,  dass  sie  sich 
dieser  Pflichten  bewusst  war.  Schon  am  i.  Januar  1871  berief 
sie  eine  Commission  von  elf  der  ortskundigsten  und  erfahren- 
sten  Wasserbau-Ingenieure,  um  die  Ursachen  der  Tiber- 
Ueberschwemmungen  zu  studiren  und  Mittel  zu  ihrer  Verhiitung 
vorzuschlagen.  Die  Akten  dieser  Commission,  die  mir  durch 
die  Gute  des  Prasidenten  des  italienischen  Ingenieur-Vereins, 
Comm.  G.  Cadolini,  zuganglich  geworden  sind,  enthalten  ein 
i'lberaus  reichhaltiges  und  wert voiles  Material  uber  die  geolo- 
gischen,  hydrographischen  und  meteorologischen  Verhaltnisse 
des  Tiberthals  und  besonders  desjenigen  Teiles,  auf  welchem 
Rom  steht.  Sie  gewahren  einen  klaren  Einblick  in  die  Ursa- 
chen, auf  denen  die  periodischen  Anschwellungen  des  Flusses 
beruhen,  und  in  die  Widerwartigkeiten  und  Gefahren,  welche 
sich  daraus  fur  Rom  ergeben.  Es  ware  eine  dankbare  Aufgabe, 
an  der  Hand  des  Berichtes  der  Commission  diese  Zustande  und 
die  Vorschlage  zu  ihrer  Verbesserung  eingehend  darzustellen. 
Hier  muss  ich  mich  darauf  besclinlnkcn,  nur  das  Wichtigste 
(lessen  hervorzilheben,  was  zu  ihrer  Beseitigung  geschehen  ist. 

Der  Vorschlag  des  Ingenieurs  Ruffaele  Canevari,  der  von  der 
Commission  adoptirt,  nach  langem  Schwanken  auch  von  der 
Regirung  angenommen  wurde  und  welcher  der  Tiberreguli- 
rung  zu  Grunde  liegt,  geht  von  zwei  Hauptgedanken  aus. 
Erstens  erstrebt  er  eine  griindliche  Verbesserung  des  Tiber- 
bettes  und  der  Tiberufer,  und  zweitens  will  cr  den  Abfluss  der 
Abzugskanale  sowie  der  zahlreichen  unterirdischen  Gewasser, 
die  innerhalb  der  Stadt  in  den  Tiber  miinden,  nach  ausser- 
halb  des  Stadtgebietes  verlegen,  um  Rom  bei  eintretendem 
Hochwasser  vor  dem  Ruckstau  dieser  Effluvien  zu  schutzen. 

Zur  Verbesserung  des  Tiberbettes  wurde  eine  grundliche 
Ausraumung  und  Vertiefung  des  Flussbettes,  sowie  die  tun- 
lichste  Beseitigung  aller  der  zahlreichen  Hindernisse,  die  den 
raschen  und  gleichmiissigen  Abfluss  des  Wassers  innerhalb  der 
Stadt  erschwerten,  endlich  die  Verbreiterung  des  Flussbettes 
auf  die  durchgehende  Breite  von  hundert  Meter,  unter  gleich- 


566  COSMOPOLIS. 

zeitiger  Herstellung  einer  Mittelrinne  von  achtzig  Meter  Breite 
fur  niederen  Wasserstand,  vorgeschlagen.  Die  Sicherung  der 
Ufer  dieses  so  gereinigten,  geebneten  und  verbreiterten 
Flusslaufes  sollte  durch  steinerne  Mauern  erfolgen,  deren 
Hohe  die  des  voraussichtlich  hochsten  Wasserstandes  um  etwa 
einen  Meter  iibersteigt. 

Um  den  Fluss  von  den  sti'idtischen  Effluvien  zu  befreien  und 
diesen  einen  vor  Ruckstau  gesicherten  Abfluss  zu  gewahren, 
schlug  Canevari  vor,  unter  den  zu  beiden  Seiten  des  Flusses  in 
Hohe  der  Ufermauern  anzulegenden  Strassenzugen  ausreichend 
grosse  Abzugskanale  zur  Aufnahme  aller  Abwasser  aus  der 
Nachbarschaft  des  Flusses  zu  errichten.  Um  aber  die  mangel- 
hafte  und  unzureichende  Kanalisirung  der  Stadt  grundlich  zu 
verbessern,  sollten  gleichzeitig  zwei  von  dem  Flusslauf  ganz 
unabhangige  grosse  Sammelkanale  hergestellt  werden,  die 
samtliche  Abfliisse  der  stadtischen  Leitungen  sowie  die 
unterirdischen  Gewasser  in  sich  vereinigen  und  bis  auf  zehn 
Kilometer  hinausfiihren  sollten,  um  dann  erst  in  den  Tiber  zu 
miinden. 

Es  ist  ein  Gliick  fiir  Rom,  dass  an  diesen  beiden  Grund- 
gedanken,  auf  denen  der  Plan  der  Tiber-Regulirung  beruht, 
bei  der  Ausfuhrung  des  Riesenwerkes  im  Wesentlichen  festge- 
halten  worden  ist. 

Als  ich  Rom  im  Jahre  1861  zum  crsten  Male  sah,  boten 
die  Tiberufer  ein  Bild  dar,  das  vom  malerischen  Standpunkt 
cben  so  reizvoll  als  vom  Standpunkt  der  Gesundheits-  und 
Baupolizei  geradezu  unerhort  war.  Ohnc  genugende  Ein- 
fassung  und  Abgrenzung,  naturwiichsig  wild,  hier  von 
cphcuunisponnenen  Trumniermasscn,  dort  von  Ffcilerii 
zerfallender  Briickenbauten  eingeengt,  bahnte  sich  der  Fluss 
gurgelnd  und  brausend  seinen  Weg  in  starken  Krummungen 
durch  die  alte  Stadt,  deren  Hauser  sich  auf  weiten  Strecken 
seines  Laufes  unmittelbar  aus  dem  Fluss  erhoben  oder  ihm 
vielmehr  ihre  Kehrseiten,  das  toUstc  Durchcinander  der 
wunderlichsten  Galerien,  Stalle,  Abzuge,  Tiirme  mit  zahllosen 
Fenstern,  Durchbriichen,  Gittern  u.s.w.  zuwendeten.  Noch 
heute  hat  man  auf  dem  rechten  Ufer  von  der  Engelsbrucke 
bis  zum  Ponte  Sisto  an  den  Hinterhausern  des  Borgo  und 
Lungara  einen  kleinen  Rest  dieses  Zustandes  vor  Augen,  der 


BRIEFE   AUS   ROM.  567 

voraussichtlich  bald  ebenso  verschwinden  wird,  wie  er  in  den 
ubrigen  Teilen  des  Flusslaufes  verschwunden  ist.  Denn 
ausser  dieser  einen  Stelle  ist  der  Tiber  jetzt  von  seinem  Eintritt 
in  die  Stadt  bis  zu  seinem  Ausgange  auf  beiden  Seiten  von 
Steinmauern  eingefasst,  die  sich  bis  zur  Hohe  von  dreizehn 
Metern  uber  dem  Nullpunkt  an  der  Ripelta  erheben  und  die 
bei  mittlerera  Wasserstande  den  Spiegel  des  Flusses  um  mehr 
als  elf  MeterJJ  iiberragen.  Aus  soliden  hellgelben  Travertin- 
quadern  erbaut,  von  einer  breiten,  mit  Granitplatten  gedeckten 
Brustwehr  gekront,  gewahren^diese  machtigen  Mauerziige,  die 
sich  den  Krummungen  des  Flusslaufes  in  weiten  Parallelen 
anschliessen,  einen  uberaus  grossartigen  Anblick.  Mit  den 
breiten  stattlichen  Briicken,  dem  Ponte  Margherita  und  Ponte 
Umberto  im  oberen,  der  Garibaldi-Briicke  im  unteren  Teile  der 
Stadt,  bilden  sie  eine  Architekturleistung,  die  sich  den  allerer- 
sten  auf  diesem  Gebiete  getrost  an  die  Seite  stellen  darf. 

An  diese  Ufermauern  sind  zu  beiden  Seiten  des  Flusses 
durchgehende  Uferstrassen,  ein  Lungotevere  nach  Analogic 
des  florentinischen  Lungarno,  angeschlossen.  Nach  dem 
Verlangen  der  Stadt  ist  iHv  diese  Uferstrassen  eine  grossere 
Breite  und  Hohe  in  Angriff  genomraen  worden,  als  in 
Canevaris  Vorschlag  vorgesehen  war.  Dadurch  werden  die 
neuen  Tiberufer  an  stattlichem,  vornehmem  Aussehen  gewin- 
nen,  namentlich  wenn  es  raoglich  sein  sollte,  sie,  wie  dies 
stadtischerseits  gewiinscht  wird,  gleichmassig  mit  Arka- 
denhausern  zu  besetzen.  Allein  abgesehen  davon,  dass  dies 
noch  in  hohcm  Maasse  Zukunftsmusik  ist,  ergeben  sich  fur 
die  Gegenwart  aus  der  unnotig  grossen  Hohe  der  Uferstras- 
sen erhebliche  Uebelstande.  Uenn  wi'ihrend  nach  dem  ur- 
sprunglichen  Plan  die  Verbindung  zwischen  diesen  Strassen 
und  den  angrenzenden  Stadtteilen  leicht  herzustellen  gewesen 
ware,  erheben  sich  die  Uferstrassen  jetzt  an  vielen  Stellen  vier 
bis  fiinf  Meter  iiber  die  benachbarten  Strassen  und  schliessen 
diese  durch  einen  hohen  Wall  vom  Fluss  ab.  Der  Ausgleich 
dieser  betrachtlichen  Niveau-Unterschiede  wird,  wenn  er 
tiberhaupt  zu  ermoglichen  ist,  enorme  Kosten  verursachen. 

Auch  sonst  bleibt  noch  viel  zu  tun  iibrig,  um  das  grosse 
Werk  der  Tiberregulirung  zu  einem  nach  alien  Richtungen 
befriedigenden    Abschluss    zu    bringen.     Allein    erreicht    ist 


568  COSMOPOLIS. 

schon  jetzt  die  voile  Sicherheit  von  Rom  gegen  die  Wiederkehr 
der  Tiberuberschwemraungen.  In  dem  neuesten  Bericht, 
welchen  die  fiir  die  Ueberwachung  der  Arbeiten  eingesetzte 
Commission  erstattet  hat,  fuhrt  Canevari  den  Nachweis,  dass 
die  wissenschaftlichen  und  technischen  Voraussetzungen,  auf 
vvelche  sein  Plan  gegriindet  war,  sich  durch  den  Verlauf  der 
seither  eingetretenen  Hochwasserstande  als  vollig  zutreffend 
erwiesen  haben.  Er  spricht  mit  berechtigtem  Selbstgefiihl 
aus,  dass  die  Zeit  herankommt,  in  der  die  Tiberuberschwem- 
mungen  in  Rom  nur  noch  eine  geschichtliche  Erinnerung  sein 
werden.  "  Das  heranwachsende  Geschlecht  und  seine  Nach- 
folger  werden  sich  nur  dariiber  wundern,  dass  Rom  von 
seiner  Erbauung  an  sechsundzwanzig  Jahrhunderte  diesen 
Ueberschwemmungen  ausgesetzt  geblieben  isl,  und  dass  das 
machlige  Volk,  welches  seine  Herrschaft  i'lber  den  grossten 
Teil  des  damals  bekannten  Erdreiches  auszudehnen  vermocht, 
welches  sein  weites  Reich  mit  einem  wunderbaren  Strassennetz 
uberzogen  und  mit  Hafen,  Kanalen  und  Aquaducten  versehen 
hat,  nicht  im  Stande  gewesen  ist,  sein  Forum,  seinen  Circus 
maximus  und  einen  grossen  Teil  seiner  Hauptstadt  vor  dem 
Eindringen  der  schlammigen  Tiberwogen  zu  schutzen.  Dies 
Stauncn  der  Nachwelt  wird  um  so  grosser  sein,  als  ihr  nach 
Vollcndunj^  des  Werks  die  Mittel  einfach,  leicht  und 
selbstverstiindlich  erscheinen  werden,  mit  denen  die  Abvvehr 
der  so  lange  erduldeteii  Gefahren  und  Widerwartigkeiten 
erreicht  worden  ist." 

Bei  dem  ungeheuren  Umfang  der  Arbeiten,  die  zur 
Erneuerung,.zum  Schutz  und  zur  Sanirung  Roms  in  Angriff 
genommen  worden  sind  (ich  habe  nur  die  wichtigsten  kurz 
beriihrt,  vielcs  ganz  unerwahnt  lasscn  miissen),  ist  es  nicht 
zu  verwundern,  dass  innerhalb  eines  2^itraums  von  kaum 
fiinfundzwanzig  Jahren  noch  sehr  Vieles  von  dem  Unternom- 
menen  unvollendet  geblieben  ist.  Dieser  unfertige  Zustand 
des  grossen  Umwandlungswerks  tritt  jedem  Besucher  Roms 
alsbald  vor  die  Augen,  an  vielen  Stellen  in  einer  auf- 
dringlichen  und  irrefiihrenden  Weise.  Es  gibt  wol  keine  der 
neu  angelegten,  der  verbreiterten,  verlangerten  oder  gerade 
gerichteten  Strassen  in  der  Altstadt,  die  nicht  einen  Rest  von 
noch  nicht  fertiggestellten  Bauarbeiten  aufzuweisen  hatte,  und 


BRIEFK   AUS   ROM.  569 

in  der  Kegel  befindet  sich  dieser  Rest  an  einem  Punkte,  der 
den  Blicken  der  Beschauer  am  allermeisten  ausgesetzt  ist. 
Start  vieler  Beispiele  hier  nur  zwei.  Da  wo  der  Corso  bei  der 
Piazza  Venezia  endigt,  steht  eine  Gruppe  von  Gebauden,  die 
spater  niedergelegt  werden  sollen,  urn  einen  freien  Blick  auf 
das  Nationalmonument  fur  Konig  Victor  Emanuel  zu  ermog- 
lichen.  Obwol  der  Riesenbau  dieses  Denkmals,  das  am 
Nordabhang  des  Capitols  errichtet  wird,  noch  sehr  weit  zuruck 
ist,  hat  man  den  Palast  Torlonia,  der  dem  Corso  gerade 
gegenuber  liegt,  abzureissen  begonnen,  hat  dies  aber  nicht  zu 
Ende  gefuhrt,  und  so  bietet  sich  dem  Blick  der  zahllosen 
Fremden,  die  den  Corso  passiren,  der  hochst  unerfreuliche 
Anblick  eines  zerstorten  Bauwerkes  mit  durchgeschnittenen 
Zimmern,  triimmerhaftem  Dach-  und  Balkenwerk,  geflickten 
Stutzmauern  und  all  dem  Grauel  dar,  der  mit  einem  Abbruch 
nun  einmal  unzertrennlich  verbunden  ist.  Nachst  dieser  Stelle 
ist  diejenige,  die  am  meisten  von  Fremden  in  Rom  passirt 
wird,  wol  die  Engelsbrucke,  weil  sie  noch  immer  den  besten 
Zugang  zur  Peterskirche  und  zum  Vatican  bildet.  Hart  an 
der  Engelsbrucke  und  so,  dass  es  Jedem,  der  uber  sie  zur 
Stadt  will,  auf  das  Starkste  in  die  Augen  fallen  muss,  liegt  in 
der  Via  Tor  di  Nona  eine  Reihe  von  mitten  durchgeschnit- 
tenen, halb  abgerissenen  und  halb  stehen  gebliebenen  alten 
Hausem,  die  den  Eindruck  einer  seit  lange  verwahrlosten 
Brandstarte  oder  eines  kleinen  Bombardements  erwecken. 
Aehnlich  ist  es  an  vielen  anderen  stark  in  die  Augen  fallenden 
Stellen.  Es  ist  manchmal,  als  ob  eine  boshafte  Fee  sich  ein 
Vergnugen  daraus  gemacht  hatte,  einen  Punkt  iibrig  zu  lassen, 
der  die  Wirkung  des  ganzen,  sonst  vortrefflich  Gelungenen  in 
Frage  stellt. 

Bei  einer  Nation,  die  so  viel  angeborenen  Sinn  fiir  Schon- 
heit  besitzt,  die  von  einem  so  eifersuchtigen  Stolz  auf  die 
Wurde  und  das  Ansehen  ihres  Staates  und  ihrer  Metropole 
beseelt  ist,  vermag  man  sich  die  Gleichgiltigkeit  schwer  zu 
erklaren,  mit  welcher  durch  derartige  Vernachlassigungen  des 
baulichen  Anstandes  das  edle,  vornehme  Stadtbild  von  Rom 
beeintrachtigt,  ja  fur  viele  fifichtige  Besucher  geradezu  getriibt 
wird.  In  vielen  Fallen  wurde  die  Beseitigung  der  Missstande 
nicht  einmal  irgendwie  erhebliche  Kosten  verursachen.     Da^s 


570  COSMOPOLIS. 

man  sie  trotzdem,  iind  obwol  sie  als  arge  und  schreiende 
Uebelstande  vielfach  in  der  Presse  des  In-  und  Auslandes  zur 
Sprache  gebracht  worden  sind,  seit  Jahren  ruhig  fortbestehen 
und  schliramer  werden  lasst,  fuhrt  sich  vielleicht  auf  die 
Gelassetiheit  zuriick,  mit  der  man  in  Rom,  unter  der 
Einwirkung  der  Jahrtausende,  das  Bestehende  zu  betrachten 
leicht  gewohnt  wird.  Vielleicht  aber  auch  darauf,  dass  dem 
begeisterten  Anlauf,  mit  dem  Staats-  und  Stadtverwaltung, 
wetteifernd  mit  zahlreichen  Privatunternehmungen,  die 
Erneuerung  Roms  an  alien  Ecken  und  Enden  in  die  Hand 
nahmen,  nach  den  ersten  starken  Ruckschlagen  eine  ebenso 
grosse  und  allgemeine  Mutlosigkeit  gefolgt  ist.  Himmelhoch 
jauchzend,  zum  Tode  betrubt  :  das  Hegt  in  dem  rasch 
erregbaren,  nervosen  Temperament  der  Italiener  sehr  nah  bei 
einander. 

Aufdringlich  habe  ich  die  Art  und  Weise  genannt,  in 
welcher  der  unfertige  Zustand  von  Rom  dem  Besucher 
entgegentriit  ;  gliicklicherweise  ist  sie  aber  auch  irrefuhrend, 
denn  sie  lasst  die  Dinge  in  einem  viel  schlimmeren  Lichte 
erscheinen  als  sie  wirklich  sind.  Wer  sich  durch  die 
unangenehmen  Eindriicke  nicht  davon  abhalten  lasst,  den 
Umfang,  das  Wesen  und  den  Wert  des  bereits  Fertiggestellten 
zu  wurdigen,  und  wer  namentlich  in  der  Lage  ist,  das  heutige 
Rom  mit  dem  vor  1870  zu  vergleichen,  der  kommt  zu  ganz 
anderen  Ergebnissen. 

Auch  der  eifrigste  Bewunderer  der  Gegenwart,  der  robusteste 
Optimismus  wird  anerkennen  miissen,  dass  von  dem-vor  einem 
Vierteljahrhundert  begonnenen,  bis  1889  mit  dem  grossten 
Eifer  geforderteii  Riesenwerk  der  baulichen  Erneuerung 
Roms  noch  viel,  sehr  viel  im  Ruckstande  ist.  Innerhalb 
welchen  Zeitraums  Rom  im  Stande  sein  wird,  alle  die  neuen 
Stadtviertel  auszufiillen,  die  bis  zum  Eintritt  der  Krise  in 
AngrifT  genommen  worden  sind  —  :  wer  mochte  das  zu  sagen 
sich  erkuhnen  ?  Wer  mochte  ferner  glauben,  dass  es  in  naher 
Zukunft  moglich  sein  wird,  die  Quaistrassen  zu  vollenden,  die 
beide  Seiten  des  Flusses  mit  Arkadenreihen  einfassen  soUen  ? 
Wer  endlich  kann  sich  ein  Bild  davon  machen,  ob  iiberhaupt 
Oder  gar  innerhalb  welcher  Frist  es  gelingen  wird,  die 
Schwierigkeiten  zu  iiberwinden,  welche  durch  den  Hohenunter- 


BRIKFK   AUS   ROM.  57 1 

schied    zwischen    den    Uferstrassen   und   den   angrenzenden 
Strassenzugen  entstanden  sind  ? 

Allein  diesen  Schattenseiten,  diesen  Ungewissheiten  stehen 
gewaltige,  schon  jetzt  erreichte  Vorteile  gegenuber,  Vorteile 
von  einem  Umfange,  wie  man  sie  innerhalb  eines  so  kurzen 
Zeitraumes  kaum  erhoffen  durfte. 

Rom,  das  vor  1870  fur  die  weitaus  grosste  Mehrzahl  seiner 
Viertelmillion  Bewohner  unzureichenden  Wohnraum  gewahrte, 
bietet  jetzt  nahezu  einer  halben  Million  reichlichere,  bessere 
und  gesundere  Wohnungen.  Nach  amtlichen  Angaben  waren 
im  Jahre  1869  in  Rom,  nach  Abzug  der  von  9374  Personen 
bewohnten  religiosen  Gebaude,  im  Ganzen  162,000  bewohn- 
bare  Raume  fur  eine  standige  Bevolkerung  von  217,000 
Kopfen  vorhanden.  Fiir  die  darunter  befindliche  Arbeiterbe- 
volkerung  von  57,000  Personen  wurden  nur  13,274  Raume 
angegeben,  also  im  Durchschnitt4,29  Personen  auf  ein  Zimmer. 
Aber  es  gab  Raume,  in  denen  sich  nachts  10 — 12  Personen 
jeden  Alters  und  Geschlechts  zusammendrangten.  Nach  den 
mir  vorliegenden  amtlichen  Veroffentlichungen  kann  angenom- 
men  werden,  dass  jetzt  fur  eine  doppelt  so  grosse  Einwohner- 
schaft  mehr  als  dreimal  so  viel  bewohnbare  Raume  verfiigbar 
sind.  Diese  Wohnungen  verteilen  sich  auf  einen  ungleich 
grosseren  Flachenraum  als  friiher  ;  sie  gewahren  der  Luft  und 
dem  Licht  in  weit  reicherem  Maasse  Zutritt. 

Breite,  lijftige,  fiir  den  Verkehr  einer  Grossstadt  geniigende 
Strassen  umziehen  nicht  nur  in  den  neu  entstandenen 
Stadtteilen  den  Korper  der  Altstadt,  sondern  sie  dringen  nach 
verschiedenen  Richtungen  bahnbrechend  in  diesen  Korper  ein, 
setzen  ihn  mit  den  neuen  Quartieren  in  Verbindung  und 
rucken  die  engsten,  verwickeltsten  und  linstersten  Telle  von 
Alt-Rom  in  die  unmittelbare  Nachbarschaft  oder  wenigstens 
leicht  erreichbare  Nahe  von  reinlichen,  wolgepflegten  Stras- 
senziigen.  Ohne  an  der  Fiille  seiner  kunstlerischen  und 
geschichtlichen  Monumente  irgend  eine  namhafte  Einbusse 
erlitten,  ohne  an  dem  malerischen  Reiz  seiner  Stadtbilder 
merklich  verloren  zu  haben,  ist  Alt-Rom  gegenwartig  fur 
Einheimische  besser  und  gesunder  zu  bewohnen,  fur  Fremde 
behaglicher,  anstandiger,  reinlicher  zu  passiren,  als  dies  vor 
1870    der    Fall    war.      Eine  Anzahl   der  schmutzigsten  und 


572  COSMOPOLIS. 

abschreckendsten  Winkel  der  Altstadt  sind  vom  Erdboden 
verschwunden.  Mit  ihnen  ist  ein  Herd  schlimmer  moralischer, 
sozialer  und  gesundheitlicher  Uebelstande  beseitigt.  Auch 
nach  dieser  Richtung  hin  hat  RomanGesundheit,Reinlichkeit, 
Decenz  nur  gevvonnen.  Freunde  malerischen  Helldunkels 
finden  auch  heutzutage  in  Rom  noch  Stellen  genug,  die  alien 
Anforderungen  des  verwohntesten  Realismus  genugen. 

Statt  der  fruher  unzulanglichen  Verbindung  zwischen  den 
Stadtteilen  links  und  rcchts  des  Tiber  sind  jetzt  zahlreichc 
Briicken  vorhanden — darunter  einige,  die  sich  den  besten 
Bruckenbauten  des  Altertums  wuixiig  anreihen — ,  welche  an 
alien  Stellen  bequeme  Uebergiinge  fiber  den  F*luss  leicht 
erreichbar  machen.  Trastevere,  fruher  ein  fast  ganz  fur  sich 
bestehendes  Quartier  mit  besonderen  Sitten  und  einer  den 
Romern  selbst  fremdartigen  Bevolkerung,  ist  mit  Rom  jetzt 
auch  dadurch  eng  verbunden,  dass  sich  die  schonste 
offentliche  Promenade,  die  neugeschaflfene  Passeggiata 
Margherita,  um  die  Hohe  des  Janiculus  herumzieht.  Eine 
Reihe  der  kostlichsten  Aussichtspunkte,  zu  denen  man  sonst 
durch  enge,  schmutzigeGassen  und  Gasschen  der  schlimmsten 
Art  den  Zugang  suchen  musste,  sind  jetzt  auf  bequemen 
Zufahrten  zu  Fuss  wie  im  Wagen  leicht  zu  erreichen  und  bilden 
Nachmittags  fiir  Einheimische  und  Fremde  ein  zahlreich 
besuchtes  Ziel  fur  Spazirfahrten. 

Durch  die  Mauereinfassung  der  Tiberufer  —  ein  Bauwerk, 
das  an  Ernst  und  Grossartigkeit  der  Anlage  von  keinem 
Romerwerk  ubertroffen  wird — vverden  beide  Seiten  der  Stadt 
vor  der  sonst  periodisch  vviederkehrenden  Ueberschwem- 
mungsgefahr  geschiitzt  und  sind  dadurch  grossen  Schadigungen 
fur  Leben,  Gesundheit  und  Eigentum  ihrer  Bewohner  dauernd 
entruckt.  Gleichzeitig  ist  durch  die  Verbesserung  und  Aus- 
dehnung  der  Kanalisation  eine  durchgreifende  Entsumpfung 
und  Trockenlegung  des  Untergrundes  der  Stadt  begonnen 
worden. 

Durch  diese  bauliche  Umgestaltung  der  Stadt  ist  eine 
erhebliche  Verbesserung  der  Gesundheitszustande  von  Rom 
erzielt  und  in  einem  Umfange  erreicht  worden,  auf  den  man 
bei  Beginn  des  grossen  Werks  in  dieser  Schnelligkeit  nicht  zu 
hoffen  gewagt  hatte.     Ich  behalte  mir  vor,  auf  die  Organisa- 


BRIEFE   AUS  ROM.  573 

lion  des  seit  1870  von  Grund  auf  neugeschaffenen  stadtischen 
Sanitatsdienstes,  im  Ziisammenhang  mil  anderen  kommunalen 
Einrichtungen,  spater  naher  einzugehen.  Aber  schon  jetzt 
mochte  ich  einige  Wahrnehmungen  mitteilen,  aus  denen  der 
grosste  Erfolg  der  baulichen  Erneuerung  Roms,  die  Verbes- 
serung  des  Gesundheitszustandes,  sich  einleuchtend  ergibt. 

Soweit  die  statistischen  Aufzeichnungen  zuriickreichen,  ist 
in  Rom  bis  zura  Jahre  1880  die  Zahl  der  Todesfaile  grosser 
gewesen  als  die  der  Geburten.  Graf  Thournon,  der  in  seinen 
Etudes  statistiques  sur  Rome  die  Zahlen  fiir  die  Jahr  171 2 — 
1829  gibt,  rechnet  aus,  dass  innerhalb  dieses  Zeitraumes,  nach 
der  Differenz  von  Todesfallen  und  Geburten  bemessen,  die 
Einwohnerzahl  von  Rom  sich  um  mehr  als  150,000  Kopfe 
verringert  haben  wiirde.  Im  Jahre  1880  ergab  sich  bei  8582 
Geburten  und  8225  Todesfallen  zum  ersten  Male  ein  geringer 
Ueberschuss  der  Geburten.  Dieser  Ueberschuss  ist  seitdem 
standig  geblieben  und  befindet  sich  in  fortschreitendem 
Wachstum.  Diese  fi'ir  die  Beurteilung  der  Gesundheitsver- 
haltnisse  von  Rom  wichtige  Erscheinung  beruht  auf  mehreren 
Ursachen,  unter  anderem  darauf,  dass  seit  der  Organisation 
eines  den  modernen  Anforderungen  entsprechenden  stadtischen 
Sanitatsdienstes  auf  dem  Agro  romano,  dem  ausserhalb  der 
Stadtmauern  belegenen  Teil  des  Gemeindebezirks  von  Rom, 
Stationen  fur  arztliche  Hilfeleistungen  errichtet  worden  sind, 
in  denen  die  Campagna-Arbeiter  bei  Krankheitsfallen  Beistand 
und  Pflege  finden,  wahrend  sie  friiher  in  die  Hospitaler  der 
Stadt  geschaflft  werden  mussten  und  die  Zahl  der  stadtischen 
Todesfaile  vermehrten.  Ferner  darauf,  dass  die  erschreckende 
Sterbiichkeit  im  stadtischen  Findelhause  sich  betrachtlicli 
vermindert  hat,  nachdem  die  Stadt ver wait ung  seit  1880  dazu 
iibergegangen  ist,  die  bambini  sobald  als  moglich  in  die 
gesunden  Orte  des  Albanergebirges  in  Pflege  zu  geben. 
Allein  sorgfaltige  Beobachter  und  Kenner  der  italienischen 
Demographic  sind  der  AnvSicht,  dass  die  Abnahme  der  Todes- 
faile sich  nicht  auf  diese  Griinde  allein  zuriickfikhren  lasst, 
sondern  dass  sie  der  fortschreitenden  Vtrbesserung  des 
Gesundheitszustandes,  welche  durch  die  bauliche  I  Jmgestaltung 
Roms  erreicht  worden  ist,  mit  zu  verdanken  ist. 

Diese   Ansicht  wird   durch   die   Aufzeichnungen    bestatigt, 
VOL.  IX.— NO.  xxv|.  17 


574  COSMOPOLIS. 

welche  seit  mehreren  Jahrzehnten  iiber  den  Verlauf  ansteckender 
Krankheiten,  namentlich  der  Malaria  und  des  Typhus,  gemacht 
worden  sind.  Nach  einem  von  der  verdienstvollen  Leitung 
des  statistischen  Amtes  von  Italien  herausgegebenen  Werke, 
welches  die  demographischen,  adilizischen  und  admini- 
strativen  Verhaltnisse  der  italienischen  und  mehrerer  aus- 
landischen  Grossstadte  einer  sehr  interessanten  Vergleichung 
unterzieht,  hat  sich  die  Zahl  der  in  Rom  an  Malaria  und 
Sumpf-Fieber  Gestorbenen  von  506  im  Jahre  1874  auf  254  im 
Jahre  1891,  die  der  am  Typhus  Gestorbenen  in  den  gleichen 
Jahren  von  274  auf  150  vermindert,  also  in  beiden  Fallen 
nahezu  auf  die  Halfte  der  fruheren  Todesfalle.  Da  innerhalb 
des  gleichen  Zeitraums  die  Einwohnerzahl  von  Rom  sich  fast 
verdoppelt  hat,  so  ergibt  sich,  dass  im  Verhaltnis  zur 
Bevolkerungsziffer  die  Todesfalle  an  Malaria,  Sumpf-Fieber 
und  Typhus  seit  dem  Beginn  der  baulichen  Erneuerung 
Roras  auf  ein  Viertel  ihrer  fruheren  Zahl  gesunken  sind. 

Als  ich  Rom  zum  ersten  Mai  besuchte,  wurden  mir  von 
ortskundigen  Landsleuten  Verhaltungsmaassregeln  aller  Art 
zum  Schutze  gegen  das  Fieber  eingescharft.  Jetzt  denkt 
Niemand  mehr  an  etwas  der  Art.  Noch  1870  haben  arztliche 
Autoritaten  die  Moglichkeit  einer  Bebauung  des  Esquilins 
wegen  der  Fiebergefahr  bezweifelt.  Jetzt  steht  an  dem  kleinen 
Palast  an  der  Ecke  der  Via  Agostino  Depretis  und  Via  Urbana 
die  Inschrift  :  Nunc  licet  Esquiliis  habitare  salubribus ;  die 
friiher  gemiedene  Hochebene  hinter  dem  Esquilin  und  dem 
Quirinal  gehort  zu  den  bevolkertsten  und  gesundestcn 
Quartieren  der  Stadt.  Es  vermehrt  sich  die  Zahl  Derer,  die 
durch  Geschaft,  Amt  oder  sonstige  Pflichten  auch  in  den 
gefiirchteten  Hochsommermonaten  in  Rom  festgehalten  wer- 
den,  ohne  dass  sie  dadurch  Nachteile  an  ihrer  Gesundheit 
erleiden.  Der  herrliche  Park  der  Villa  Borghese,  der  sonst  aus 
Gesundheitsriicksichten  im  Juli  und  August  geschlossen  wurde, 
ist  seit  1895  das  ganze  Jahr  hindurch  geoffnet,  ohne  dass  sich 
daraus  irgend  welche  Uebelstande  ergeben  hatten.  Wahrend 
es  in  meiner  Jugend  fiir  bedenklich  gait,  in  Rom  oder 
Umgegend  zur  Sommerzeit  nach  Sonnenuntergang  langere 
Zeit  im  Freien  zu  verweilen,  wird  jetzt  zu  alien  Jahreszeiten 
bis  in  die  spatesten  Nachtstunden  hinein  auf  den  Strassen  uncj 


BKIEFE  AUS   ROM.  575 

Platzen  von  Rom  unter  freiem  Himmel  geplaudert,  geseSvSen, 
Kaffee  getrunken. 

Die  romische  Stadtverwaltung  hat  im  Jahre  1895,  zum  fiinf- 
undzwanzigjahrigen  Jubilaum  der  Wiedervereinigung  Roms 
mit  Italien,  ein  Werk  herausgegeben,  welches  eine  Uebersicht 
der  wahrend  der  Jahre  1870 — 1895  von  dem  Stadtrat  von 
Rom  gefassten  Beschliisse  enthalt.  Der  Abschnitt,  welcher 
sich  auf  die  Gesundheitsverhaltnisse  der  Stadt  bezieht,  schliesst 
mit  folgenden  Worten  : 

Der  Ruf  einer  ungesunden  Stadt,  der  wahrend  so  langer  Zeit 
auf  Rom  gelastet  hat,  ist  jetzt  nur  noch  eine  Erinnerung,  von 
welcher  binnen  wenigen  Jahren  keine  Spur  mehr  zuriick- 
bleiben  wird  als  in  Biichern. 

Das  ist  ein  stolzes  Wort,  aber  es  entspricht  der  Wahrheit, 
und  es  druckt  die  grosste  Woltat,  welche  Rom  seiner 
baulichen  Erneuerung  verdankt,  treffend  und  richtig  aus. 

P.  D.  Fischer. 
Rom,  Dezember  1897. 


WAS  MIR  ALPHONSE  DAUDET  1ST. 


ICH  sage  nicht,  was  er  mir  gewesen  ist ;  denn,  was  er  mir  war, 
wird  er  mir  bleiben,  obgleich  er  nun  tot  und  so  manches 
seiner  Bucher,  wie  ich  ihre  lange  Reihe  jetzt  an  meiner 
Erinnerung  voriiberziehen  lasse,  bereits  angefangen  hat,  zu 
verblassen.  Das  ist  fiir  mich  betrubend  ;  ich  darf  wol  sagen  : 
es  ist  betrubend. 

Oder  stellte  ich  etwa  eine  traurige  Ausnahme  von  der  Regel 
dar  ?  Ware  es  nicht  Naturgesetz,  dass  die  Zeit  allmahlich  auch 
die  lebhaftesten  Eindrucke,  die  unsre  Sinne,  unser  Gemut 
empfangen,  abschwacht  und  abstumpft  ?  Stehen  die  Herrlich- 
keiten  der  Landschaften  Italiens  und  seiner  Museen  noch  so 
frisch  und  deutlich  vor  der  Seele  des  greisen  Wanderers,  wie 
an  jenem  Tage,  als  er,  ein  JiingHng,  uber  den  Brenner, 
trauernden  Herzens,  heimwarts  fuhr,  sich  das  Versprechen 
gebend,  bald,  recht  bald  den  Soldo  einzulosen,  den  er  am 
letzten  romischen  Abend  in  die  Fontana  di  Trevi  senkte— ein 
Versprechen,  das  er  dann  doch  nicht  einlosen  konnte  ?  Geht 
es  uns  anders  mit  den  Gestalten  vor  uns  dahingeschwundener 
Freunde  ?  Der  Frauen  sogar,  die  wir  liebten,  fur  die  wir 
jeden  Tropfen  Blutes  freudig  geopfert  haben  wurden  ?  Und 
Bucher,  die  wir  einst  mit  klopfenden  Pulsen  lasen,  jetzt  Thranen 
im  Auge,  jetzt  jauchzendes  Lachen  im  Herzen — sie  sollten  ein 
besseres  Schicksal  haben  ?  Die  dissolving  views,  weiche  eine 
Dichterphantasie  an  unserm  innern  Auge  vorubergleiten  Hess, 
wir  sollten  sie,  wahrend  der  Strom  der  Zeit ,  mit  jeder  Welle 
Neues  bringend,  unaufhaltsam  dahinflutet,  nach  Jahren  in 
derselben  Reihenfolge,  derselben  Scharfe  der  Umrisse,  dersel- 
ben  Glut  der  Farben  in  der  Erinnening  reproduciren  konnen  ? 
Es  ist  unmoglich  ;  und  wir  mussen  uns  darein  (inden;  wie  in 


WAS   MIR  ALPHONSE    DAUDET   1ST.  577 

so  vieles  andere  Unerfreuliche,  das  "  der  ganzen  Menschheit 
zugeteilt  ist." 

Gegen  die  Gesetze  der  Natur  straubt  sich  nur  der  Thor.  Und 
warum  sollten  wir  es  in  diesem  Fall,  da  wir  mit  dem  Dichter 
sagen  durfen  :  "  Ich  besass  es  doch  einmal " — und  weiter 
sagen  durfen  :  Ich  besitze  es  noch  :  in  der  Bereicherung,  die 
meine  Phantasie,  mein  Geist  aus  dem  kostlichen  Tranke,  wie 
schnell  er  auch  verrauschte,  fur  immer  sogen,  wie  ein  Strom 
die  Wasser  der  anderen,  die  sich  in  ihn  ergossen,  freilich  nicht 
mehr  von  den  seinen  zu  unterscheiden  vermag,  aber  doch  nur 
ihnen  verdankt,  dass  er  nicht  versiegte,  sondern,  ein  winziger 
Bergquell,  der  er  war,  am  Ende  seiner  Bahn  stolze  Schiffe  in 
den  Ocean  tragt. 

So  denn,  Alphonse  Daudet,  bringe  ich  gleich  die  Fabel 
deines  Nabab,  deiner  Rois  en  exile  nicht  mehr  zusammen  ; 
stosse  ich  gleich,  in  deinen  Lettres  de  mon  Moulin,  in  deinen 
Contes  de  Lundi  blatternd,  auf  diese  und  jene  Geschichte, 
deren  Titel  ich  vergass  ;  von  der  ich  erst  ein,  zwei  Seiten 
wieder  gelesen  haben  muss,  um  sie  als  alte  Hebe  Bekannt- 
schaft  ansprechen  zu  durfen — das  macht  dich  mir  nicht  weniger 
wert.  Du  bleibst  mir,  was  du  warst :  der  phantasie-  und 
humorvoUe,  alles,  was  er  zur  Hand  nimmt,  in  Gold  verwan- 
delnde — bleibst  mir  der  Dichter  Daudet. 

Und,  indem  ich  dich  so  nenne,  sondere  ich  dich  aus  von 

den     vielen — nur    allzuvielen ! — ,    die     dasselbe    Metier    des 

Romanciers,  wie  du,  betrieben  haben  ;   und  denen   ich    nun 

und  nimmer  jenen   hochsten    Ehrentitel   zuerkennen   werde. 

Nicht,   weil    sie   keine   "  Les  Amoureuses "  geschrieben,   wie 

du — der  Dichter  fangt  fur  mich  nicht  mit  dem  Verse  an  und 

hort  nicht  mit  dem  Verse  auf — ,  sondern  weil  sie  auch  nicht 

eine    Zeiie  von   den   folgenden   aus  deinen    Lettres    hatten 

schreiben  kdnnen  :    "  Vous  connaissez,  n'est-ce  pas,  cette  jolie 

griserie  de  Tame  ?    On  ne   pense  pas,  on  ne  reve   pas   non 

plus.    Tout  votre  6tre  vous  6chappe,  s'envole,  s'^parpille.    On 

est  la  mouette  qai   plonge,  la   poussi^re   d'6cume  qui   flotte 

au  soleil  entre  deux  vagues,  la  fum6e  blanche  de  ce  paquebot 

qui  s'6ioigne,  ce  petit  corailieur  a  voile  rouge,  cette  perle  d'eau, 

ce  fiocon  de  brume,  tout  excepts  soi-mdme..." 

Denn  siehst  du,  Alphonse  Daudet,  dergleichen  kann  nur 


57^  COSMOPOLIS. 

schreiben,  wer  die  Welt — soil  in  seinen  Romanen  und  Novellen 
nicht  alles  erdenschwere  Prosa  bleiben — erblicken  muss,  wie 
du  sie  erblickst,  wann  und  wo  immer  dein  glanzvoUes  Auge 
auf  ihr  weilt :  durch  das  Medium  der  Phantasie. 

Ich  weiss  sehr  wol,  der  Realist  wird  das  fur  eine  Phrase 
halten  und  Zolas  temperament  dagegen  ausspielen.  Alle 
Achtung  vor  dem  Temperament ;  aber  es  deckt  die  Sache 
nicht.  Ich  bleibe  bei  Phantasie.  Mag  man  die  wunderbare 
seelische  Qiialitat,  die  wir  so  nennen,  noch  so  wenig  genaii 
detiniren  konnen,  mag  sie  undefinirbar  sein — wir  empfinden  ihr 
Vorhandensein,  ihr  Fehlen  mit  derselben  Gewissheit,  mil  der 
wir  in  der  freien  Luft  der  Berge  oder  des  Meeres  freier  atmen, 
als  im  dumpfen  Brodem  der  Stadte.  Und  sie,  sie  allein,  indem 
wir  sie  dem  einen  Schriftsteller  zu-,  dem  andern  absprechen ; 
bei  dem  einen  im  hoheren  Grade  finden,  als  bei  dem  andern 
— sie  ist  es,  weshalb  wir  sagen  durfen  :  dieser  ist  ein  Dichter 
und  jener  ist  es  nicht ;  oder  :  dieser  ist  ein  grosserer  Dichter 
als  jener. 

Ich  mochte  in  diesen,  meinem  dahingeschiedenen  Liebling 
geweihten  Zeilen  nicht  einem  anderen  zu  nahe  treten, 
wenn  ich,  einzig  bemiiht,  Daudets  Phantasie  in  ihrem  herr- 
lichen  Glanze  zu  zeigen,  an  die  anders  geartete  anderer 
Schriftsteller  erinnere,  welche  zwar  ein  Medium  ist,  durch 
welches  Menschen  und  Dinge  in  ausserordentlich  klaren 
Umrissen  erscheinen,  aber  die  schlimme  Eigenschaft  hat,  nur 
gewisse  Farben  transpiriren  zu  lassen,  so  dass  nun  die  Welt, 
die  sie  uns  malen  woUen,  vor  ihnen  steht,  wie  sie  vor  dem 
Farbenblinden  stehen  soil  :  ohne  Unterscheidung  von  Rot 
und  Grun  und  den  anderen  Complementarfarben  ;  in  einem 
monotonen,  nur  bald  hellerem,  bald  dunkleren  gelbbraunen  Ton. 

Und  dieser  monotone  Farbenton,  wie  wirkt  erzuruck  auf  die 
Diction,  die  unter  seinem  Einfiuss  nun  ebenfalls  einfdrmig, 
doctrinar,  ermudend  wird  1 — keines  jener  Zauberworte  findet, 
die  uns,  wie  im  Licht  des  Blitzes,  eine  ganze  dunkle  Seelen- 
region  in  tagheller  Klarheit  erscheinen  lassen  ;  jener  Worte,  die, 
wie  Rosen-  und  Hyacinthenduft,  unsre  Brust  mit  Wonne 
fallen,  uns  triiumen  machen  von  vergangenen  Zeiten,  als  wir, 
ein  kleiner  Knabe,  um  das  Knie  der  Mutter  spielten  ;  als  wir 
zum  ersten  Mai — 


Was   MIR  ALPHONSE   DAUDET   1ST.  579 

Mein  Gott,  das  lasst  sich  ja  nicht  aussprechen  !  Lest  Daii- 
det,  und  ihr  wisst,  was  ich  sagen  mochte  ! 

Wahrend  ich  dies  schreibe,  hore  ich  bestandig  sein  geist- 
volles  Plaudern,  seine  vor  Riihrung  zitternde,  weiche  Stimme  ; 
ach  !  und  vor  allem  sein  kostliches,  herziges  Lachen.  Er  ist 
Lyriker,  er  ist  Humorist,  wie  es  der  echte  und  gerechte  Dichter 
sein  muss.  Und  welch  ein  Schilderer  1  welch  ein  Maler  mit 
welchen  satten,  welchen  gliihenden  Farben  auf  seiner  Palette  1 
Fast  mochte  ich  zuriicknehmen,  was  ich  oben  von  den  Liicken 
sagte,  die  sich  in  meiner  Erinnerung  an  seine  Werke  finden. 
Sie  wimmelt  ja  von  Gestalten,  die  er  schuf.  Da  sehe  ich 
"  Schmetterling  und  Kaferchen  "  angeschwipst  zu  nachtlicher 
Stunde  aus  dem  Kelch  der  Rose  taumeln  ;  die  "  kleine  Chebe  " 
am  Balcon  lehnen  und  zu  der  fenetre  du  palier  da  oben  hin- 
aufblicken,  seltsame  Traume  traumend  ;  den  "  Parisien,"  wie 
bei  seinem  Betreten  des  Platzes  vor  der  Muhle  die  Kaninchen  vor 
ihm  davon  huschen  ;  oder  wie  er  in  der  Wachtstube  des  "  Phare 
des  Sanguinaires "  sich  von  den  alten  Seeratten  grausliche 
Geschichten  erzahlen  lasst  ;  sehe  *'  Tartarin/'  bis  an  die  Zahne 
bewaff net,  aus  dem  Hause  treten  und  atemlos  auf  den  Mord- 
gesellen  lauschen,  der  nie  kommt ;  den  "  Kleinen  Dingsda  "  im 
fadenscheinigen  Rockchen  des  "  pion  " — die  famose  Lorgnette 
nicht  zu  vergessen  ! — auf  der  Katheder,  von  den  unniitzen 
Buben  grausam  gehanselt ;  den  lieben  "  Herrn  Joyeuse  "  auf 
dem  Trottoir  des  Faubourg  Saint-Honore  stehen,  zitternd  vor 
einem  Strassenungliick,  das  nur  in  seiner  Einbildungskraft 
existirt ;  den  armen  "Jack"  auf  seinem  Sterbebett  in  der 
Charit6 — nicht  langer  Jack,  nur  noch  *'  Onze  bis " —  der 
Mutter  harrend,  die  nicht  kommen  will  — 

Und  alle  diese  Gestalten — und  wieviele  noch — sind  mir 
Begleiter  gewesen  auf  den  eignen  poetischen  Pfaden  und 
Spielgesellen  der  Geschopfe  meiner  eignen  Phantasie.  Und 
jedes  neue  Buch  von  ihm  war  mir  wie  der  Heilruf  eines  guten 
Weggesellen  und  eine  Versicherung,  dass  ich  selbst  auf  dem 
rechten  Wege  sei.  Nicht,  dass  mir  jedes  gleich  lieb  und  sym- 
pathisch  gewesen  ware,  ich  mit  jedem,  wie  mit  "Tartarin,"  in 
der  Stadt  bei  meinen  Freunden  umherlaufen  und  rufen  konnte  : 
Leute  !  Lest  dies  Buch  !  Das  ist  etwas  ganz  Kostliches,  Ein- 
ziges  ! — und  nebenbei  erleben   musste,    dass  meine  Freunde 


S8o  COSMOPOLIS. 

die  Perle  anfangs  keineswegs  in  ihrem  unschatzbaren  Wert 
erkannten,  ohne  mich  in  meinem  Urteil  irre  zu  machen,  dem 
freilich  jetzt  alle  Welt  zustimmt.  Nein,  es  erging  mir  nicht 
immer  so  gut.  Manchmal  war  ich  sogar  ernstlich  bose  auf 
nieinen  Daudet ;  hatte  an  seinem  poetischen  Gewande  zu 
miikeln,  dem  ich  einen  anderen  Schnitt  gegeben  haben  wurde ; 
hiitte  ihm  sagen  mogen  :  fiir  dies  eine  Mai  mag  es  sein,  aber, 
bitte,  nicht  wieder !  —  Hat  das  meiner  Liebe,  meiner  Verehrung 
Abbriich  getan  ?  Nicht  den  mindesten.  So  wenig,  wie — si 
magnis  parva  componere  licet — Schiller  an  Goethe  irre  wurde, 
wenn  er  ihn  einmal  nicht  auf  der  vollen  Hohe  fand,  und 
vice  versa. 

Nur  das  leider  zwischen  Daudet  und  mir  von  einem  vice 
versa  nicht  die  Rede  sein  kann.  W^ahrend  ich  jedes  seiner 
Biicher,  sobald  es  erschienen,  verschlang,  um  so  manches 
spater  wieder  und  wieder  zu  lesen,  waren  ihm,  der  kein 
Deutsch  verstand  und  sich  aus  Uebersetzungen  keinen  Rat 
holen  konnte,  die  meinen  mit  sieben  Siegeln  verschlossen, 
die  er  wol  ein  wenig  zu  liiften  suchte,  wenn  er — so  ist  mir  von 
glaubwiirdigen  PYeunden  erzahlt — sich  gelegentlich  von 
Bekannten,  die  des  Deutschen  kundig — es  wurde  mir  u.A. 
Turgenjew  genannt — ,  ein  paar  Seiten  aus  dem  Stegreif  uber- 
setzen  liess,  und  sich  doch  wenigstens  iiber  meine  Titel  freuen 
konnte  :  Problematische  Naturen,  Hammer  und  Amboss, 
Sturmflut — die  ihm  Bedeutendes  zu  versprechen  schienen. 

So  hat  er  denn  nie  eine  Zeile  von  mir  gelesen  ;  nie  haben 
wir  brieflich  eine  gewechselt ;  nie  haben  wir  uns  von  Angesicht 
zu  Angesicht  gesehen.  Immer  aber  habe  ich  ihn  trotz  alledem 
nieinen  PVeund  genannt  und  so  nennen  durfen,  wenn  des  alten 
Romers :  "  Idem  velle  atque  idem  nolle,  ea  demum  firma 
amicitia  est,"  seine  Giltigkeit  hat.  Er  wollte,  dass  der 
Romancier  ein  Kiinstler  sei,  und  wollte  nicht,  dass  das  edle 
Metier  in  die  Hande  von  Handwerkern  falle.  Genau  dasselbc 
wollte  mein  Leben  lang  auch  ich,  und  dasselbe  wollte  auch  ich 
nicht.  Ein  kleiner  Unterschied  bleibt :  was  er  wollte,  das 
konnte  er  fiir  seine  Person  durchfiihren.  Ich  werde  mich  wol 
mit  dem  magna  voluisse  begnugen  miissen. 

Fkieurich  Spieliiagex. 


NAPOLEON    I.    UND    PREUSSEN. 


I. 

VOK  einigen  Jahren  kam  ein  Blatt  aus  dem  Nachlass  Leopold 
Kankes  heraiis,  kaum  mehr  als  eine  Druckseite,  das  unter  den 
Historikern  von  Fach  ungemeines  Aufsehen  erregte.     Es  war 
eine  Antikritik  gegen  einen  Aiifsatz  Max  Dunckers  iiber  die 
Denkwurdigkeiten  Hardenbergs,  worin  sich  dieser  abweichend 
von  der  Biographie  des  Staatskanzlers  geaussert  hatte,  welche 
kurz  zuvor  von  Ranke  veroffentlicht  war.     Ranke  pflegte  in 
seinen  Darstellungen  nicht  zu  polemisiren,  kaum  in  den  An- 
merkungen  ;  er  iiberliess  die  Wirkung  seiner  Gedanken  ihneii 
selbst  und  verwandte  seine  Zeit  lieber  darauf,  eigene  Biicher 
zu  schreiben,  statt  andere  zu  kritisiren.     Und  so  ist  auch  diese 
Notiz   niemals   zur   Veroffentlichung,   sondern    gleich   vielen 
andern  nur  zu  seiner  eigenen  Information  bestimmt  gewesen. 
Um  so  merkwurdiger  war  es  zu  sehen,  wie  lebhrft  er  darin  den 
Angriff  erwiderte  und  wie  tief  er  den  Gegensatz  zu  den  von 
Duncker  vertretenen  Ansichten  empfunden  hatte.     Mit  schar- 
fen  Worten  aussert  er  seinen  Unwillen  iiber  die  Kleinigkeits- 
kramerei  seines  Kritikers,  der  wol  einiges  Neue  aus  den  Akten 
cles  Geheimen  Staatsarchives  beigebracht,  aber  das,  was  in  dem 
Buche  geleistet  und  neu  sei,  kaum  gestreift  habe.    Statt  dessen 
sei  von   ihm  eine  eigene  Ansicht  der  Begebenheit  entwickelt 
worden,  in  der  aber  Napoleon  in  der  "  hergebrachten/'  der 
"  landlaufigen "  Auffassung  erscheine,  als   habe  er  sich  von 
vornherein   mit   dem   Plan  der  Welteroberung  getragen  und 
diesen  jeden  Augenblick,  der  ihm  giinstig  schien,  zur  Aus- 
fiihrung  zu  bringen  gesucht.     "  Er  erscheint,  dass  ich  so  sage, 
wie  eine  Eroberungsbestie,  auf  den  Augenblick  lauernd,  wo  er 
cincn  nach  dem  anderen  seiner  Xachbarn  verschhngen  konne." 


582  COSMOPOLIS. 

Der  Eindriick,  den  diese  Stimme  aus  dem  Grabe  des  alten 
•  Meisters  unter  den  Fachgenossen  machte,  war  berechtigt 
genug.  Denn  was  Ranke  an  Duncker  verurteilt,  war  bis  dahin 
von  den  maassgebendsten  unter  den  deutschen  Historikern 
ausser  ihm  allgemein  vertreten  worden.  Gerade  so  schildert 
Heinrich  von  Treitschke  den  grossen  Kaiser  vor  seinem  Feld- 
zuge  gegen  Russland  :  "  Der  entscheidende  Grund,"  heisst  es 
bei  ihm,  "  lag  wieder  in  dem  unzahmbaren  Charakter  des  Welt- 
herrschers.  Wie  der  Lowe  nicht  bloss  aus  Hunger  mordet, 
sondern  weil  er  nicht  anders  kann,  weil  es  seine  Natur  ist  zu 
rauben  und  zu  zerfleischen,  so  konnte  dieser  AUgewaltige  nicht 
einen  Augenblick  bei  einem  erreichten  Erfolge  sich  beruhigen. 
Ins  Grenzenlose  schweiften  seine  begehr lichen  Traume  ;  noch 
war  ihm  nichts  gelungen  was  der  Marchenpracht  des  Alexan- 
derzuges  gleich  kam.  Kaum  war  mit  Russlands  Hilfe  Oester- 
reich  unterworfen,  so  sollte  der  Zar  mit  dem  Beistand  der 
Hofburg  gedemiitigt  werden."  Und  nicht  anders  spricht 
Heinrich  von  Sybel  von  der  Grosse  des  damonischen  Mannes, 
die  ebenso  abschreckend  sei  wie  begeisternd,  fortreissend  in 
ihrer  Erscheinung,  aber  duster  und  unheimlich  in  ihrem 
Grunde.  "  Denn  iiberall  hat  sie  nur  sich  selbst  zum  Zwecke. 
Sie  steht  einsam  in  der  Welt,  sie  ist  herzlos  fur  alle  Anderen,  in 
denen  sie  nur  das  Material  fiir  ihre  eigene  Erhdhung  findet." 
Nichts  als  die  gliihenden  Begierden  eines  schrankenlosen 
Ehrgeizes  weiss  er  fiir  den  Plan  des  Feldzuges  gegen  Indien 
und  alles,  was  Napoleon  geschaffen  oder  zerstort  hat,  anzu- 
geben. 

Ranke  hat  uns  sonst,  soviel  ich  weiss,  kein  Gesamturteil  uber 
Napoleons  Politik  hinterlassen.  Aber  er  hat  dem,  was  er  dort 
privatim  gesagt,  auch  niemals  widersprochen  ;  und  wer  seinen 
Hardenberg  oder  Consalvi  oder  irgend  ein  Werk  von  ihm,  das 
diese  Epoche  streift,  gelesen  hat,  wer  uberhaupt  Rankes  Auf- 
fassung  des  Weltzusammenhanges  kennt  (was  freilich  nicht 
Jedermanns  Sache  ist),  wird  finden,  dass  nur  diese  Ansicht 
iiber  Napoleon  damit  iibereinkommt,  und  dass  er  sie  an  jener 
Stelle  nur  kiirzer  und  scharfer  pointirt  hat. 

Heute  ist  dieselbe  auch  in  Deutschland  nicht  mehr  so  un- 
gewohnt ;  mehrfach,  u.  A.  auch  von  dem  Unterzeichneten,  ist 
sie  vorgetragen  worden.     Denn  seitdem  hat  Albert  Vandal  sie 


NAPOLEON  I.  UND  PREUSSEN.  583 

aus  den  ursprunglichsten  und  reichsten  Quellen  in  breiter  Dar- 
stellung  begrundet.  Aber  dass  sie  weitere  Kreise  beherrschte, 
kann  man  noch  immer  nicht  sagen ;  die  '*  landlaufige "  Auf- 
fassung  Napoleons  mochte  doch  noch  die  von  dem  ''selbst- 
suchtigen  Abenteurer,"  dem  ''gekronten  Scheusal/'  dem  "mo- 
dernen  Chingis-Khan  "  sein,  und  wie  die  hergebrachten  Titel 
lauten  mogen,  in  denen  sich  mehr  lobliche  patriotische  Ent- 
rustung  als  ein  historisches  Verstandnis  genug  tut.  Aeltere, 
aber  sonst  noch  maassgebende  Biicher  wie  die  schone  Bio- 
graphic Scharnhorsts  von  Max  Lehmann  hangen  ganz  in  den 
alten  Vorstellungen,  und  selbst  die  neusten  Arbeiten  iiber  die 
preussische  Geschichte  in  der  napoleonischen  Epoche  haben 
sich  noch  nicht  vollig  frei  machen  konnen  von  den  Konse- 
quenzen  einer  Auffassung,  die  in  der  Zeit  der  Unterdriickung 
selbst  entstanden,  in  den  Jahrzehnten,  da  wir  die  Sehnsucht 
nach  der  nationalen  Einheit  mit  dem  Hasse  gegen  Frankreich 
nahrten,  sich  erhalten  hatte. 

Seitdem  wir  aber  unsere  Nachbaren  zum  zweiten  Male 
niederwarfen  und,  wenn  auch  in  engen  Grenzen,  unsern  natio- 
nalen Staat  erlangten,  haben  wir  es  wol  nicht  mehr  notig, 
unsere  Vergangenheit  patriotisch  zu  farben,  und  konnen  wieder 
fremder  Grosse  gerecht  werden,  ohne  ernstlich  Gefahr  zu 
laufen,  der  Unempfindlichkeit  gegen  die  nationalen  Ideale 
angeklagt  zu  werden.  Und  so  mag  es  mir  erlaubt  sein,  die 
Politik,  welche  Napoleon  gegen  Preussen  unter  dem  Zwange 
seines  Systems  einhalten  musste,  in  leichter  Skizze  objektiv  zu 
schildern. 

Ranke  hat  an  jener  Stelle  schon  die  Liicke  bezeichnet, 
welche  in  Dunckers  Auffassung  klafft  und  jedes  Verstandnis 
Napoleons  unmdglich  macht.  *'  Dabei  ist,"  so  bemerkt  er, 
*'  das  grosste  Weltverhaltnis,  in  welchem  sich  Napoleon  iiber- 
haupt  bewegte,  der  Kampf  gegen  England  und  der  Zusammen- 
hang  desselben  mit  den  kontinentalen  Angelegenheiten  so  gut 
wie  ganz  aus  der  Acht  gelassen,  also  der  eigentliche  Faden,  an 
den  sich  sein  Tun  Cind  Lassen  ankniipft.  Von  dem  allgemeinen 
Verhaltnis  aber  sind  alle  partikularen  Unternehmungen  aus- 
gegangen,  und  man  kann  weder  den  Angriff  noch  die  Abwehr 
verstehen,  ohne  jenes  zu  gedenken." 

Bonaparte  fand  diesen    Feind  vor,  als  er  seine  Laufbahn 


584  COSMOPOLIS. 

begann.  Gegen  ihn  gewann  er  vor  Toulon  seine  ersten 
Lorbeeren  und  erfiihr  in  Aegypten  von  ihm  seine  erste 
Niederlage.  Diirch  Marengo  erzwang  er  einen  Frieden, 
welcher  sich  als  eine  Aera  der  Weltversohnung  ankundigte, 
aber  nichts  als  ein  kurzer  Waffenstillstand  werden  sollte.  Nicht 
von  gestern  war  dieser  Gegner,  der  alle  Koalitionen  und  alle 
Niederlagen  der  alliirten  Machte  iiberdauerte,  unverwundbar 
hinter  seinem  breiten  Graben,  siegreich  auf  alien  Meeren, 
Herr  iiber  Indien  und  fast  alle  Kolonien,  welche  Frankreich 
und  seine  Alliirten  je  besessen  batten,  und  stets  bereit,  den 
Kaiser  an  alien  Kiisten,  die  er  besetzt  hielt,  anzufaiien.  Hun- 
dert  Jahre  und  dariiber  hatte  der  Kampf  zwischen  den  beiden 
Machten  bereits  gedauert  :  das  alte  Konigtum  hatte  sich  an 
ihm  matt  gerungen  ;  die  Revolution,  die  es  vernichtete,  hatte 
ihn  nur  fortgesetzt  ;  und  ihr  Erbe  war  auch  darin  Napoleon 
geworden,  um  auch  darin  zu  scheitern. 

Dass  der  Kampf  seines  Lebens  England  gelte,  hat  er  zu  alien 
Zeiten  und  hundertfach  ausgesprochen.  Und  Niemand  war 
tiefer  davon  durchdrungen,  dass  er,  der  Zertrummerer,  der 
Welteroberer,  der  scheinbar  Schrankenlose,  selbst  unter  dem 
allmachtigen  Schicksal  stehe.  Er  war  personlich  verwachsen 
mit  seinem  System  so  gut  wie  mit  den  ihrigen  Caesar  und  Ale- 
xander und  andere  Gewaltige  in  der  Geschichte,  denen  er  allein 
verglichen  werden  kann.  Aber  wie  jene,  stand  auch  er  unter 
dem  Druck  der  Weltverhiiltnisse,  unter  Machten,  die  er  nicht 
geschaffen  hatte  und  nicht  beherrschte,  die  alter  waren  als  er 
und  seine  Zeit,  tief  verzweigt  in  dem  Leben  der  Nationen  :  er 
rief  die  einen  geflissentlich  auf  und  hielt  die  andern  nieder  ;  er 
hoffte  sie  alle  biindigen  und  gegen  das  eine  Ziel  wenden  zu 
konnen,  und  musste  erfahren,  wie  sich  fast  alle  vereinigten,  um 
ihn  in  furchtbarer  Umarmung  zu  ersticken.  Wie  oft  gedenkt 
er  selbst,  zwischen  den  Schlachten  oder  in  dem  Moment  der 
Verhandlungen,  des  Systems,  das  ihn  fessele,  des  Geschickes, 
dem  er  dienen  miisse.  "  Tat  un  maUre  qui  tia  pas  d'entrailles, 
c*€sf  la  nature  des  choses,"  schreibt  er  an  Josephine  mitten  aus 
dem  polnischen  Winterfeldzuge  heraus.  *'  Ich  weiss,"  sagt  er 
ihr,  "  noch  andere  Dinge  zu  tun  als  Krieg  zu  fuhren,  aber  die 
Pflicht  geht  Allem  vor.  Mein  ganzes  Leben  habe  ich  geopfert, 
Kuhe,  Interesse  und  Gluck,  meiner  Bestimmung." 


NAPOLEON   I.   UND   PREUSSEN.  585 

Unsere  patriotischen  Historiker  haben  solche  Erklarungen 
and  Bekenntnisse  immer  niir  als  Heuchelworte  und  Marchen 
des  "grossen  Liigners"  bezeichnet.  Heute,  wo  man  sich  schon 
wieder  gern  in  phantastischen  Traunibildern  von  dem  Zu- 
sammenschluss  unseres  Kontinentes  gegen  die  englische  Welt- 
inacht  ergeht,  sollten  sie  uns  schon  darum  gar  nicht  mehr  so 
ungereimt  erscheinen  ;  und  wir  mochten  wol  eher  die  friiher 
herrschende  Meinung  von  dem  Kampfe  Englands  fiir  die  Frei- 
heit  Europas  als  eine  Legende  bezeichnen,  entstanden  in  der 
Epoche,  da  die  Briten  sich  so  gern  auch  als  die  Huter  aller 
politischen  P'reiheiten  von  unsern  Liberalen  preisen  liessen. 
Denn  wer  sieht  nicht,  dass  sie  in  dem  Kampf  gegen  die  grosse 
Revolution  und  ihren  Erben  die  Macht  erst  recht  eigentlich 
begrundet  haben,  welche  heute  auf  Europa  driickt  und  schon 
auf  die  Rivalitaten  zwischen  den  Kontinentalstaaten  ausgleichend 
einzuwirken  beginnt. 

Freilich  musste  auch  Napoleon  darauf  bedacht  sein,  dass 
alle  Krafte  des  Kontinents  zu  dem  einen  Ziel  zusammen- 
wirkten.  Es  war  auch  fiir  sein  Genie  und  seine  Macht  unmog- 
lich,  einen  Frieden  von  England  zu  erzwingen,  der  die 
Errungenschaften  der  Revolution  gewahrleistete  und  ihre 
Verluste  deckte,  wenn  ihm  auf  dem  Festlande  immer  neue 
Gegner  in  den  Riicken  fielen.  Nur  eiti  System  konnte  er  hier 
dulden.  Nicht  einmal  Neutralitat  durfte  er  schliesslich  ge- 
statten.  Denn  es  war  nicht  bloss  ein  Kampf  mit  den  Waffen, 
sondern  von  Markt  gegen  Markt ;  durch  Hunger  und  Elend 
woUte  er  den  Feind  ruiniren,  dem  er  nicht  an  den  Leib 
kommen  konnte.  Wer  nicht  fiir  ihn  war,  war  wider  ihn,  und 
ein  Todfeind  ward  er  jedem,  der  es  wagte,  sich  ihm  in  den 
Weg  zu  stelien. 

Neutralitat  aber  war  die  Politik  Preussens,  als  cs  zuerst  mit 
Bonaparte  in  Beziehungen  trat.  Es  hoffte,  in  dem  Weltkampf 
sich  isoliren  zu  konnen,  sowie  es  unter  seinem  ersten  Konig  in- 
mitten  des  nordischen  und  des  spanischen  Erbfolgekrieges  den 
Frieden  behauptet  hatte.  Aber  daraals  hatte  es  wirklich  in 
einer  Neutralitatszone  gelegen,  an  der  jene  beiden  Erschiitte- 
rungen  hatten  vorubergehen  konnen,  ohne  in  einander  iiberzu- 
greifen.     Jetzt  hingegen  war  Russland  langst  von  dem  allge- 


586  COSMOPOLIS. 

meinen  Brande  ergriften  worden,  und  alle  Lebensinteressen 
Preussens  im  Osten  und  Westen  in  Frage  gestellt.  Es  war  un- 
moglich,  sich  auf  die  Dauer  dem  grossen  Kampfe  zu  entziehen. 

Im  Marz  1803  sah  sich  der  Konig  zum  ersten  Mai  vor  die 
Entscheidung  gedriingt.  Der  Krieg  Frankreichs  mit  England 
war  nach  kurzer  Pause  wieder  ausgebrochen,  und  wahriich 
mindestens  gleich  sehr  durch  die  Schuld  Pitts  und  seiner 
Freunde  wie  Bonapartes.  Das  Meer  war  seit  Abukir  in  den 
Handen  Englands,  ein  Angriff  auf  Malta  oder  Aegypten  un- 
moglich,  und  auch  den  Stoss  in  der  Front  wollte  der  Konsul 
noch  nicht  wagen.  Es  gab  fiir  ihn  keine  Stelle  wo  England 
verwundbar  war,  ausser  in  Hannover  ;  dort,  an  den  Mun- 
dungen  der  deutschen  Strome,  konnte  er  hoflfen,  auch  den 
englischen  Handel  schwer  zu  treffen.  Aber  er  griff  damit  in 
die  Zone  der  Neutralitat  ein,  die  dem  preussischen  Staat  zu 
Basel,  freilich  nicht  von  England,  gewahrleistet  war.  Es  waren 
die  Landschaften,  welche  der  grosse  Konig  in  siebenjahrigem 
Ringen,  damals  gegen  Frankreich,  behauptet  hatte.  Aber 
hineingerissen  war  auch  er  durch  den  Konflikt  der  beiden 
Westmachte,  der  mit  der  gleichen  Notwendigkeit  wie  funfzig 
Jahre  spater  das  Land  zwischen  Rhein  und  Elbe  ergriffen 
hatte. 

Man  hat  das  ungiinstige  Urteil,  unter  dem  Friedrich  Wil- 
helm  III.  heute  steht,  wesentlich  abgeleitet  von  seiner  Haltung 
in  den  Jahren  1809  und  181 1,  als  er  vor  dem  Krieg  um  die 
Existenz,  in  den  ihn  die  Patrioten  hineinreissen  wollten, 
zuriickscheute.  Jedoch  in  der  furchtbaren  Pressung,  in  der 
sich  der  verstiimmelte  Staat  befand,  hatte  auch  eine  heroische 
Natur  in  der  Stellung  des  Konigs  wol  schwanken  konnen  ;  und 
man  wird  immer  Momente  finden,  welche  sein  Zagen,  und 
schliesslich  die  Unterwerfung  unter  die  erdruckende  Ueber- 
macht  entschuldigen,  vielleicht  sogar  rechtfertigen  kdnnten. 
Im  Friihling  1803  aber  hatte  Friedrich  Wilhelm  noch  alle 
Karten  in  der  Hand.  Sein  Staat  war  voUig  intakt,  ja  durch  die 
neuen  Arrondirungen,  die  man  schon  Bonaparte  verdankte,  in 
besserer  Lage  als  vor  dem  Kriege  gegen  die  Revolution  und 
bliihte  auf  unter  einer  einsichtigen  und  sparsamen  Verwaltung. 
Auch  die  Rustung,  in  der  Friedrichs  Staat  alien  seinen  Feinden 
getrotzt  hatte,  war  noch  die  gleiche,  und  kaum  vermindert  der 


NAPOLKON    I.    UNO    PKICrSSEN.  587 

Glaube  an  die  kriegerische  Kraft  des  alten  Preussens.  Die 
Macht  der  Krone  war  ungeschwacht,  und  kein  Hauch  revo- 
lutionaren  Geistes  machte  sich  bemerkbar  :  des  Konigs  Wille 
entschied,  und  er  allein  trug  alle  Verantwortung. 

Aber  von  dem  Tage  ab,  wo  ihm  General  Duroc  die  Besetzung 
Hannovers  ankundigte,  fehlte  ihm  jede  Kraft  des  Entschlusses. 
Und  wahrend  er  zogerte  und  schwankte,  ob  er  sich  an  Bona- 
parte ob  an  England  halten  sollte,  kamen  die  Franzosen  ;  in 
wenigen  Wochen  hatten  sie  die  hannoverschen  Truppen  um- 
stellt  und  entwaffnet,  waren  die  Herren  bis  an  die  Mundung 
der  Elbe.  Dies  war  die  erste  politische  Handlung  Friedrich 
Wilhelms  III.  von  Gewicht ;  sie  war  ihm  vollig  missgluckt. 
Er  hatte  das  Spiel  aus  den  Handen  gegeben,  bevor  es  recht 
eigentlich  begonnen  war. 

Aiich  jetzt  war  noch  eine  Moglichkeit  aus  der  gepressten 
Lage  herauszukommen  und  seine  Stellung  in  der  Welt  wurdig 
der  Vergangenheit  zu  behaupten :  wenn  der  Konig  den 
Sprung  zu  Frankreich  hinuber  gewagt  hatte.  Es  ware  die 
Ruckkehr  zu  der  Politik  Friedrichs  des  Grossen  in  den  ersten 
Schlesischen  Kriegen  gewesen.  Napoleon  wollte  nichts  Anderes. 
Denn  was  konnte  ihm  mehr  am  Herzen  liegen  als  die  preus- 
sische  Armee  zu  gewinnen  !  Er  hatte  vielleicht  Russland 
und  Oesterreich  in  Schach  halten  und  alle  seine  Krafte  gegen 
England  wenden  konnen.  Auch  war  es  nur  die  Fortsetzung 
seiner  Haitung  bei  der  deutschen  Sacularisation,  und  ent- 
sprach  der  Politik  des  neuen  wie  des  alten  Frankreichs,  das 
immer  di^  Fuhrung  der  deutschen  Fiirsten  angestrebt  hatte. 
Die  Vertreter  der  Friedericianischen  Politik  in  Berlin,  wie 
Lucchesini,  waren  dafur,  und  wol  denkbar,  dass  der  grosse 
K5nig  dem  Sohne  der  Revolution  die  Hand  gegen  Habs- 
burg  gereicht  haben  wurde.  Aber  der  Geist  Friedrichs  war 
aus  den  Formen,  die  er  geschaffen,  langst  gewichen.  Har- 
denberg  ubte  Kritik  an  den  Vorschlagen  Lucchesinis  :  vor  der 
Besetzung  Hannovers,  meinte  er,  ware  die  Verbindung  mit 
Bonaparte  anzuraten  gewesen,  jetzt  sei  es  zu  spat.  Denn 
der  Krieg  werde  dadurch  unvermeidlich,  und  nich  bloss 
gegen  England,  das  unsern  Handel  schiitze,  zu  fuhren  scin  ; 
man  werde  der  Vasall  Frankreichs  werden.  Die  Unabhangig- 
keit  muss^  man  behaupten,  eine  Macht  fiir  sich  bilden  ;  "  die 


S88  COSMOPOLIS, 

wahre  Pracaution  sei  sich  vergrossern,  sich  verstarken  :  Macht, 
vor  allem  Macht  !  "  Als  ob  Macht  jemals  ohne  Anstrengiing 
zu  gewinnen  oder  auch  nur  zii  behaupten  sei  !  Man  war  in 
Berlin  nach  fremdem  Gut  gerade  so  liistern  wie  alle  Andern, 
aber  es  sollte  nichts  kosten,  weder  Blut  noch  Geld.  Man 
hoffte,  Hannover  als  Geschenk  zu  bekommen,  so  wie  Oester- 
reich  Venetien  ;  je  nachdem  aus  Englands  oder  Frankreichs 
Handen,  durch  Erpressung,  als  Lohn  dafiir,  dass  man  das 
Schwert  in  der  Scheide  behielt  und  nicht  dem  einen  oder  dam 
andern  in  den  Riicken  stiess.  Hardenberg  dachte  den 
Frieden  im  Bunde  mit  Oesterreich  behaupten  zu  konnen,  dem 
sich  die  iibrigen  deutschen  Staaten  anschliessen  wurden. 
Chimiirischer  Gedanke  !  Denn  wenn  schon  die  erste  Koalition 
der  deutschen  Machte  gegen  die  Revolution  so  bald  zerbrochen 
war,  wie  hatte  es  nach  alien  Vorgangen  seit  Basel,  unter  dem 
Druck  der  neuen  Konstellationen  zu  ihrem  Zusaramenschlusse 
kommen  konnen  1  Vielmehr  den  Weltkrieg  machte  diese 
Haltung  von  Tag  zu  Tag  unvermeidlicher. 

Und  so  Hess  Preussen  es  geschehen,  dass  die  neue  Koalition 
gegen  Frankreich  sich  bildete,  ohne  selbst  Stellung  zu  ihr  zu 
gewinnen  ;  von  Misstrauen  und  Feindseligkeit  allseits  umge- 
ben,  kannte  es  keine  andere  Weisheit  als  in  dem  Weltkri^e, 
wahrend  uber  das  Schicksal  des  Kontinents  die  ehernen 
Loose  geworfen  wurden,  in  der  Isolirhaft  seiner  Neutralitat 
zu  verharren.  Der  Bund  mit  Bonaparte  im  Jahre  1803  hatte 
vielleicht  doch  die  Feinde  in  seinem  Riicken  verscheucht  und 
ihm  so  den  Angriff  auf  Englands  Kuste,  zu  dem  er  alles  vor- 
bereitet  hatte,  ermoglicht.  Jetzt  aber,  gedeckt  durch  die 
neutrale  Haltung  der  Norddeutschen,  wagten  die  Kaisermachte 
des  Ostens  den  Angriff,  der  den  Kaiser  zwang  die  englische 
Landung  aufzugeben  und  alle  Kraft  gegen  jene  zu  kehren.  So 
kniipfte  Preussen  den  Knoten  seines  eigenen  Schicksals,  indem 
es  die  grosste  Wendung  in  dem  Geschicke  Napoleons  herbci- 
fiihren  half. 

Ich  will  nichts  dariiber  entscheiden,  ob  es  auch  dann  noch 
fur  den  Staat  Friedrichs  denkbar  gewesen  ware,  seine  Gross- 
machtstellung  an  Napoleons  Seite  zu  behaupten.  Ihm  selbst 
ware  nach  wie  vor  nichts  lieber  gewesen  ;  aber  in  Berlin 
waren    solche    Ansichten    verstummt,    und    das    preussische 


NAPOLEON    I.    UND   PREUSSEN.  589 

Gewissen  begann  sturtnisch  die  Vereinigung  mit  den  Gegnern 
des  Eroberers  zu  fordern.  Herstellung  Deutschlands  unter  der 
alten  Krone  wurde  das  Ideal  :  verschwommene  Gedanken 
in  romantischer  Farbung,  unpreussisch  in  ihrem  liberalen  und 
altdeutschen  Enthusiasmus,  aber  es  war  Wille,  Tatkraft  und 
Glaube  in  ihnen  —  die  Krafte  beginnen  sich  zu  bilden,  welche 
Preussens  Wiedergeburt  vorbereitet  haben. 

Der  Konig  und  seine  nachsten  Ratgeber  waren  von  ihnen 
kaum  beruhrt.  Widerwillig,  gezwungen  fast  liess  Friedrich 
Wilhelm  sich  in  Potsdam  zu  den  Zusagen  gegen  Zar  Alexander 
herbei,  die  er  kaum  in  dem  Momente,  da  er  sie  gab,  zu  halten 
gewillt  war.  Und  wahrend  seine  Diplomatie  zogerte  und 
uberlegte,  ging  Napoleon  zermalmend  vorwarts :  sein  Sieg  bei 
Austerlitz  zerstorte  die  werdende  Allianz  im  Keim,  warf 
Oesterreich  zu  Boden  und  Alexander  uber  seine  Grenze 
isolirte  Preussen  und  schuf  dem  Sieger  aufs  neue  breitesten 
Raum  in  Deutschland.  Niemals  war  einer  der  alten  Kaiser 
dort  Oder  in  Italien  machtiger  gewesen,  und  Keinem  hatten  die 
Stamme  nordlich  wie  sudlich  der  Alpen  je  williger  Heeres- 
folge  geleistet. 

Auch  jetzt  wiinschte  Napoleon  nichts  weniger  als  den  Krieg 
mit  Preussen.  Er  hatte  keine  Lust,  seine  Feinde  auf  dem 
Festlande  zu  vermehren.  Vielmehr  ware  ihm  noch  immer 
nichts  lieber  gewesen  als  den  Konig  zum  Freunde  zu  haben,  so 
wie  die  Kronen  des  Rheinbundes  und  Italiens.  Aber  jetzt 
ware  es  wirklich  nur  Vasallentum  geworden.  Jede  Freiheit 
des  Entschlusses  war  schon  fiir  Preussen  dahin,  und  die 
Krone  hatte  nur  noch  zu  wahlen  zwischen  Kampf  und 
politischer  Ohnmacht.  Um  diesem  Schicksal  zu  entgehen, 
um  die  Grossmachtstellung,  das  Erbe  seines  Ahnherren  zu 
behaupten,  stellte  sich  der  Konig  endlich  dem  Uebermachtigen. 
Ein  Schlachttag  entschied ;  wenige  Wochen,  und  die  Reste 
der  besiegten  Armee,  die  Hauptstadt  und  die  meisten  Festungen 
waren  verloren  ;  und  ganz  ohne  Nutzen  blieb  der  Kampf,  den 
die  niedergeworfene  Monarchie  noch  einmal  an  der  Seite  Russ- 
lands  wagte  :  preisgegeben  von  Alexander  verlor  sie  die  Halfte 
der  Provinzen  und  geriet  auf  Jahre  unter  das  harteste  Joch  des 
Siegers. 

In  Tilsit  erreichte  Napoleon  den  Zenith  seiner  wunderbaren 

VPL.  135,— NO.  xxvj.  \% 


590  COSMOPOLIS. 

Bahn  ;  niemals  hat  er  wieder  so  hoch  gestanden.     Schon  das 

glanzende  Schauspiel,  das  er   ein  Jahr  darauf  der   Welt  auf 

dem    Hoftage   zu    Erfurt   gab,  an  der  Seite  Alexanders  und 

umgeben   von    seinen    deutschen   Vasallen,   bedeutete  einen 

weiten   Schritt   zuriick,  und   konnte    mit    alien   rauschenden 

Huldigungen  kaum   eine   Niederlage  verhiillen.      Alle    seine 

Anstrengungen  waren  seitdem  darauf  gerichtet,  die  Position, 

die  er  in  Tilsit  aufgegeben  hatte,  wieder  zu  erreichen  ;  und 

alle   Siege,  die   er  noch  uber  die  Spanier   und   Oesterrcicher 

erfocht,  waren  nicht  im  Stande,  das  Verlorene  einzuholen  ;  ja, 

nicht  einmal  der  Erfolg  der  Rustungen  im  Jahre  1812  und  die 

neue  Fesselung  Preussens  haben   ihm   solche   Chancen  ver- 

schaffen  konnen,  wie  er  sie  fiinf  Jahre  zuvor  gehabt  hatte.     In 

Tilsit  waren  ihm  alle  Sterne  giinstig  :  Preussen  lag  am  Boden 

und   der   Kontinent  gebandigt    hinter   ihm.      Nur  an   einer 

Stelle,  in   Konstantinopel,  zuckte  ein  Flammchen  des  Wider- 

standes  auf.     Dort,  in  der  Reaktion  des  altturkischen  Fanatis- 

mus  gegen    Sultan    Selim   und   seine  frankischen   Reformen, 

haben   sich   zuerst   die   Geister   nationaler  Emporung  geregt, 

deren     gemeinsamem     Ansturm    Napoleon     erliegen     sollte. 

Aber  noch  ware  es  auch  hier  leicht  gewesen    sie  niederzu- 

halten.      Wenigstens    urteilte     Sebastiani    so,    der    Vertreter 

Frankreichs  an  der  Pforte,  in  dem  noch  immer  der  offensive 

Geist    der    Revolution     gliihte ;   er    trieb    seinen  Herr  n  an 

vorwarts  zu  gehen,   so   werde  man  auch   am   Bosporus  alles 

wiedergewinnen    und    den     neuen     Sultan    mit    fortreissen. 

Und  so    taten   auch    die    Polen,   die   dem   Kaiser    noch    in 

Tilsit,   wahrend    schon    der    Friede  verhandelt    wurde,  den 

Aufstand  in   Litthauen  verhiessen.      Die  Grenzen   Russlands 

aber  lagen  off  en  vor  ihm.     Kein  Zweifel,  dass  der  erste  Stoss 

geniigt  hatte,  um  die  Reste  der  russischen  Truppen  jenseits 

der  Memel,  aufgelost  wie  sie  waren,  zu  zertrummern.     Alle 

Offiziere  des  Zaren,  ihr  Oberbefehlshaber  General  Bennigsen 

und  Grossfiirst  Constantin  an  der  Spitze,  forderten  von  ihm 

den  Frieden  ;  sie  haben  ihm  das  Schicksal  seines  Vaters  an- 

gedroht,  wenn   er   nicht   nachgebe.     Seine    Briefe  und  alle 

Nachrichten  aus  diesen  Tagen  zeigen  ihn  vollig  gedemutigt, 

fassungslos  und  bereit,  die  schwersten   Bedingungen  aus  der 

Hand  des  Siegers  anzunehmen, 


NAPOLEON    I.   UND   PKEUSSEN.  591 

Wenn  es  noch  eines  Beweises  bedurfte,  dass  Napoleon 
wirklich  nicht  die  sinnlos  fortsturmende,  blut-  und  beute- 
gierige  Eroberungsbestie  gewesen  ist,  dass  es  ihm  Ernst  war 
mit  dera  Kampf  gegen  England,  ja  mit  den  friedlichen  Siegen, 
die  er  danach  von  der  Erneuerung  der  kolonialen  Macht 
Frankreichs  erhoffte,  so  muss  man  ihn  in  diesem  Moment 
beobachten,  wo  er  dem  waffenlosen  Gegner  die  Hand  zum 
Frieden  bot.  Man  weiss,  wie  erbarmungslos  der  Kaiser  mit 
seinen  Unterworfenen  zu  verfahren  pflegte;  Friedrich  Wilhelm 
sollte  es  in  Tilsit  erleben.  Dem  Zaren  aber  nahm  er  keinen 
Rubei  und  keinen  Fussbreit  Landes  ab,  vielmehr  gab  er  ihm 
noch  ein  Stuck  aus  der  polnisch-preussischen  Beute ;  er 
verlangte  nichts  von  ihm  als  den  Beitritt  zu  seinem  System, 
den  Bund  gegen  England.  Ja  mehr  als  das,  er  erregte  in 
Alexander  die  HoffnOng  auf  Finnland  und  die  turkischen 
Provinzen,  und  wiegte  seine  bewegliche  Phantasie  in  den 
berauschenden  Planen  der  Eroberung  Indiens. 

Doch  durfte  man  nicht  sogleich  sagen,  dass  der  Imperator 
in  Tilsit  nichts  als  Krieg  gegen  England  geatmet  habe.  Er 
wollte  nur  seinen  Zweck  erreichen  ;  konnte  es  ohne  Waffen- 
gewalt  geschehen,  so  war  es  ihm  nur  um  so  lieber.  Und  erwagt 
man,  auf  welche  Bedingungen  hin  er  dem  Inselreich  den 
Frieden  bewilligen  wollte — in  dem  geheimen  Bundnisvertrage 
mit  dem  Zaren,  der  vor  ein  paar  Jahren  ans  Licht  kam,  sind 
sie  verzeichnet  —  so  mochte  man  wirklich  glauben,  dass  er 
sich  einen  Augenblick  in  der  Hoffnung  gefallen  habe,  den 
starren  Gegner  durch  die  blosse  Entfaltung  der  gesammelten 
Macht  des  Festlandes  auf  die  Kniee  zu  zwingen.  Denn  auch 
England  sollte  nichts  von  seinem  eigenen  Besitzstande  ver- 
lieren  ;  es  sollte  nur  die  Eroberungen  seit  1805,  die  franzo- 
sischeo,  spanischen  und  hollandischen  Kolonien  heraus- 
geben  und  die  Freiheit  der  Meere  fur  die  Flaggen  aller 
Nationen  zugeben,  dafur  aber  Hannover  zuruckbehalten. 
Nicht  einmal  Malta,  auf  das  es  in  Amiens  verzichtet  hatte  und 
um  dessen  Willen  der  Krieg  neu  entbrannt  war,  forderte 
der  Kaiser,  geschweige  Aegypten.  Ob  also  England  Frieden 
schliessen  wollte,  darauf  kam  es  an. 

Die  Antwort,  welche  das  neugebildete  Torykabinett  auf  die 
ersten  ErofTnungen  gab,  die  der  Zar,  wie  v^rabredet  war,  nach 


592  COSMOPOLIS. 

London  gelangen  liess,  war  deutlich  genug.  Es  war  die 
Expedition  nach  Kopenhagen,  die  Zerstorung  der  wehrlosen 
Stadt,  die  Vernichtung  einer  neutralen  Flotte  —  ein  Rechts- 
bruch  von  einer  Brutalitat,  dass  auch  die  argsten  Gewalttaten 
Napoleons  davor  in  den  Schatten  treten.  Aber  ihren  Zweck 
erreichten  die  Brilen  :  sie  wollten  den  Krieg  und  zerspreng- 
ten  darum  den  eisernen  Ring,  bevor  er  sich  noch  ganz  um  sie 
gelegt  hatte ;  alle  Kiisten  der  Ostsee  lagen  ihren  Angriffen  nun 
off  en. 

Wie  hatte  Napoleon  jetzt  noch  an  Frieden  und  Verhand- 
lungen  denken  konnen  !  Alles  musste  er  dransetzen,  um 
nicht  auch  auf  dem  linken  Flugel  gelahmt  zu  warden,  sich 
des  langst  schwankenden  Spaniens  versichern,  in  Lissabon 
den  Beherrschern  der  See  —  schon  steuerten  ihre  Schiffe  dort- 
hin  —  zuvorkommen.  Und  so  wurde  er  in  den  Konflikt  mit 
den  spanischen  Parteien,  in  das  Attentat  von  Bayonne  und 
den  Aufstand  der  bigotten  Nation  mit  alien  seinen  unheilvoUen 
Folgen  hineingerissen.  Der  Zar  schloss  wirklich  seine  Kusten 
und  erklarte  sich  zum  Gegner  Englands,  —  aber  wahrend  er 
dann  um  sich  griff,  Finnland  den  Schweden  raubte,  und  auch 
an  der  Donau  seine  Heere  sich  an  Kampf  und  Sieg  gewohn- 
ten,  hielt  er  sich  dem  eigentlichen  Feinde  gegenuber  voUig 
aus  dem  Spiel ;  kein  Russe  hat  fiir  Napoleon  geblutet,  der 
Freund  liess  ihn  in  seinem  Kampfe  vollig  stecken. 

So  lange  die  spanischen  Sorgen  den  Kaiser  nicht  druckten, 
fanden  die  Expedition  nach  Indien  und  die  Aufteilung  der 
Tiirkei  in  seinen  Pliinen  Raum.  Noch  im  Februar  1808  liess 
er,  gereizt  durch  eine  neue  kriegerische  Thronrede  der  Englan- 
der,  die  Aufforderung  dazu  nach  Petersburg  gelangen.  Sie  war 
zugleich  darauf  berechnet,  den  Zaren  an  seine  Politik  zu 
fesseln.  Auch  ist  es  richtig,  dass  er  selbst,  wie  es  Alexander 
oft  betonte,  in  Tilsit  die  Pliine  gegen  die  Ti'irken  zur  Sprache 
gebracht  hatte.  Dennoch  war  der  russische  Ehrgeiz  viel 
mehr  als  der  seine  auf  die  Donaulander  und  den  Bosporus 
gerichtet.  Ihm  konnte  wol  daran  liegen,  den  Bundeseifer  des 
Zaren  gelegentlich  anzustacheln,  aber  im  Ganzen  war  er  offen- 
bar  der  Zuruckhaltende,  und  Alexander  war  es,  der  nicht  mude 
ward,  gegen  den  franzosischen  Gesandten,  Grafen  Caulain- 
court,  die  Teilungsplane  zu  erortern,  die  Donaufurstentiimer, 


NAPOLEON    I.   UND   PREUSSEN.  593 

ja  Konstantinopel  selbst  als  sein  Loos  herauszubringen.  Je 
mehr  sich  aber  die  Lage  im  Westen  verwirrte,  um  so  mehr 
musste  Napoleon  darauf  bedacht  sein,  die  Dinge  im  Osten  in 
der  Schwebe  zu  erhalten  und  sich  nicht  noch  neue  Feinde  am 
Bosporus  und  an  der  Donau  zu  verschaffen.  Wie  kann  man 
nach  alledem  noch  glauben,  dass  er  den  Krieg  gegen  Oester- 
reich  heraufgefuhrt,  dass  er  auch  diesen  Staat  seinem  "rasen- 
den  Ehrgeiz/'  seinen  "  unzahmbaren  Leidenschaften "  habe 
zum  Opfer  bringen  vvoUen  !  Es  ist  dies  gerade  so  ungereirat 
wie  das  ebenso  immer  noch  wiederholte  Marchen,  dass  er 
schon  in  Tilsit  die  Entthronung  der  spanischen  Bourbonen 
beschlossen  habe  —  Memoirenklatsch,  dem  seine  geheimsten 
Korrespondenzen  ebenso  sehr  widersprechen  wie  die  Vernunft 
der  Tatsachen.  Ihm  konnte  gar  nichts  Schlimmeres  begegnen 
als  der  Angriff  der  Oesterreicher,  wahrend  ihm  die  Spanier  auf 
dem  Halse  lagen.  Als  ihn  im  Sommer  1808  in  Paris  und 
Bayonne  die  ersten  Nachrichten  von  der  drohenden  Haliung 
des  Wiener  Hofes  erreichten,  mochte  er  kaum  an  ihren  Ernst 
glauben.  Danach  meinte  er  wol,  man  riiste  gegen  ihn  aus 
Furcht,  und  hoffte,  dass  der  Abmarsch  seiner  Truppen  aus  den 
Stellungen  an  der  Weichsel  und  Oder,  zu  dem  ihn  die  Nieder- 
lagen  in  Spanien  notigten,  die  Lage  bessern  werde.  Er  trieb 
seinen  Freund  an  der  Newa  an,  eine  scharfe  Sprache  in  Wien 
zu  fuhren,  um  dadurch  die  Kriegslust  zu  dampfen,  und  er- 
reichte  wirklich  in  Erfurt  das  Versprechen,  ihm,  falls  Oesterreich 
angreife,  Bundeshilfe  zu  gewahren.  Dafiir  musste  er  jedoch 
jenem  die  Donauprovinzen  preisgeben,  wodurch  sich  der  Kon- 
flikt  mit  Oesterreich  natiirlich  verscharfte.  Dennoch  hoffte  er 
durch  die  Niederwerfung  der  Spanier,  die  er  jetzt  personlich 
und  mit  aller  Kraft  unternahm,  dem  feindseligen  Hofe  Respekt 
einzuflossen.  Und  man  weiss,  wie  gut  es  ihm  auf  der  Halb- 
insel  gelang  :  er  zersprengte  die  spanischen  Heerhaufen,  zog 
als  Sieger  in  Madrid  ein  und  warf  das  englische  Hilfscorps 
gegen  die  Kuste.  Schon  plante  er  neue  Unternehmungen  iiber 
die  See.  Sechzig  Linienschiffe  und  ebensoviele  Fregatten  bil- 
deten  eine  Streitmacht,  mit  der  er  den  Englandern  wol  zu 
schaffen  machen  konnte.  In  den  Hafen  von  Vlissingen,  Brest 
und  Toulon  lagen  die  Gesch wader  bereit  nach  Indien  oder 
Jamaica  auszulaufen.     Ein  neues  Lager  von  Boulogne  war  in 


594  COSMOPOLIS. 

der  Bildung  begriffen  und  grosse  Truppenmassen  nach  jenen 
Kriegshafen  in  Marsch.  Aber  umsonst  waren  alle  seine  Be- 
miihungen,  den  Zaren  zu  gemeinsamen  Erklarungen  in  Wien 
fortzureissen,  die  diesen  Hof  hatten  einschiichtern  kdnnen. 
Die  Haltung  Alexanders  war  eher  dazu  angetan,  die  Oester- 
reicher  zu  der  Offensive  im  Friihjahr  1809  zu  ermuntern,  in 
deren  Entwicklung  sie  nur  durch  den  furchtbaren  Gegenstoss 
Napoleons  in  dem  genialsten  seiner  Feldzuge  jah  unterbrochen 
wurden. 

Dahin  war  der  grosse  Kriegsfurst  mit  seinem  System  von 
Tilsit  geraten  :  statt  der  Vereinigung  des  Kontinents  hatte  es 
ihra  Aufstande  und  Kriege  im  Osten  und  Westen  gebracht  und 
seitens  des  russischen  Freundes  nichts  als  Hinterlist  und  Ent- 
tauschungen.  Napoleon  erscheint  wie  ein  ausgezeichneter 
Fechter,  den  von  alien  Seiten  die  Gegner  umringen.  Wo  sein 
Schwert  hinfallt,  trifft  er  todlich.  Aber  wahrend  er  zum 
Streiche  ausholt,  fallen  ihm  andere  in  den  Rucken  —  wie  hatte 
er  nicht  endlich  erliegen  miissen  1 

Nicht  dass  es  ihm  ganz  an  Freunden  gefehlt  hatte.  Die 
Rheinbundstaaten  und  die  Italiener  halfen  ihm  gegen  Oester- 
reich  gerne,  denn  sie  verteidigten  ihre  Existenz.  In  Italien 
belebte  er,  wie  in  Polen,  die  nationalen  Hoffnungen,  und  audi 
im  rheinbiindischen  Deutschland  waren  die  leitenden  Schicli- 
ten  der  Gesellschaft  napoleonisch  gesinnt  und  die  Massen 
apathisch  :  aber  nirgends  fand  der  Kaiser,  auch  in  Frankreich 
nicht,  den  freien  Gehorsam,  die  angestammte  Treue  wie  die 
alten  Dynastien.  Er  blieb  der  Emporkommling,  der  Sohn  der 
Revolution,  die  ihn  in  die  Hohe  geworfen  hatte  wie  fruher  die 
Mirabeau  und  Lafayette,  die  Danton  und  Robespierre.  Im- 
mer  hatte  er  mit  den  besiegten  Parteien,  des  alten  wie  des 
neuen  Frankreichs,  zu  rechnen,  und  gerade  der  heiraische 
Boden  bebte  ihm  unter  den  Fussen.  Rucksichten  auf  Frank- 
reich wirkten  mit  zum  F^rieden  von  Tilsit,  und  man  weiss,  dass 
neben  den  Nachrichten  aus  Wien  und  Konstantinopel  die 
iible  Kunde  von  der  Opposition  einheimischer  Faktionen  ihn 
bewogen  hat,  seinen  Siegeslauf  in  Spanien  zu  unterbrechen. 
Nur  wo  er  unbedingt  herrschte,  wo  seine  Zollwachter  und 
Divisionen  standen,  hatte  er  Ruhe :  Gewalt  allein  hielt  ihn 
aufrecht.     Es  niitzte  ihm  nichts,  seine  Bruder  mit  den  frem- 


NAPOLEON   I.   UND   PREUSSEN.  595 

den  Kronen  zu  begaben :  ihre  Politik  nahm  sofort  etwas  von 
der  Farbe  des  Bodens  an,  iiber  den  sie  gesetzt  waren,  und  sie 
verfielen  dann  deni  Zorn  des  Imperators  so  gut  wie  die 
Andern.  Nur  im  Frieden  konnte  er  hoffen,  sich  auf  die 
Dauer  zu  behaupten  und  eine  Dynastie  zu  begriinden  ;  das 
eigenste  Interesse  trieb  ihn  an,  gleich  Cromwell  und  Wallen- 
stein,  von  den  erhabenen  Idealen  kolonialer  Macht  und  fried- 
lichen  Wolstandes  Frankreichs  und  der  Welt  als  den  Zielen 
aller  Kampfe  zu  traumen.  Er  suchte  seine  Gewalt  zu  legali- 
siren,  die  Legitimitat  unter  den  Furstenhausern  Europas  und 
den  Bund  mit  der  Hierarchiei>zu  erlangen  :  es  war  AUes  ver- 
gebens.  Seine  Macht  konnte  ihren  Ursprung  nicht  ver- 
leugnen :  unablassiger  Kampf  war  sein  Loos  und  eine  Helden- 
laufbahn,  die  so  unerhort  war  wie  die  Blutopfer,  die  sie  kostete. 
Er  musste  die  Volker  auspressen  und  die  Lander  rauben,  sowie 
Robespierre  und  Saint-Just  hatten  toten  miissen,  weil  sie  nur 
so  sich  hatten  behaupten  konnen.  Und  so  war  denn  im 
letzten  Grunde  —  mag  das  Paradoxon  gewagt  werden — die 
tyrannische  Harte,  mit  der  er  jeden  Widerstand  der  Unter- 
jochten  niederhielt  und  bestrafte,  nur  cin  Ausdruck  seiner 
Schwache. 

Max  Lenz. 


(Sclilnss/ol^l.) 


POLITISCHES 
IN    DEUTSCHER  BELEUCHTUNG. 


CHIXKSISCHKS.  —  FRANZOSISCHKS. 

Eix  paar  Wochen  haben  genugt,  um  Europa  einigermaassen 
die  Kaltbliitigkeit  gegenuber  den  ostasiatischen  Vorgangen 
zuruckzubringen  ;  eigentlich  sollte  man  freilich  nicht  sagen, 
dass  Europa  aufgeregt  gewesen  sei  ;  der  Sitz  der  Unruhe  war 
England. 

Deutsche  Missionare  vsind  in  China  ermordet  worden  ; 
Deutschland  verlangte  Genugtuung  und  nahm  als  Kaustpfand 
die  Bucht  von  Kiaotschau  in  Besitz.  Inzwischen  ist  die 
Besitznahme  in  eine  Pachtung  uragewandelt  worden,  und  wir 
haben  durch  dieses  energische  Zugreifen  das  erreicht,  was  wir 
im  fernen  Osten  brauchen  :  eine  Kohlenstation  fiir  unsere 
Flotte  und  einen  selbstandigen  Stutzpunkt  furunsern  Handel. 

Denselben  Augenblick  benutzte  Russland,  um  seine  Flotte 
unter  chinesischer  Zustimmung  in  Port  Arthur  einlaufen  zu 
lassen  ;  dass  auch  englische  Kriegsschiffe  in  Port  Arthur  sich 
befinden,  wird  von  russischen  Blattern  neuerdings  geleugnet. 
Also  die  bisherigen  tatsachlichen  Machtverschiebungen  in 
Ostasien  sind  an  Umfang  gering  ;  dass  sie  ganz  bedeutungslos 
sind,  soil  nicht  behauptet  werden. 

Ob  auch  demnachst  England,  Japan  and  Frankreich  noch 
irgendwo  zugreift ;  ob  England  sich  durch  ein  finanzielles 
Arrangement  schadlos  zu  halten  sucht,  muss  abgewartet 
werden.  Eines  ist  jedenfalls  in  das  Reich  der  Phantasien  zu 
verweisen  :  an  eine  Aufteilung  Chinas  denkt  keine  europaische 
Macht ;  Deutschland  gewiss  nicht.  Solche  Aufteilungen 
riesiger  Landermassen  mit  Konsequenzen,  die  kein  Sterblicher 
zu  uberblicken  vermag,  voUziehen  sich  sehr  leicht  in  Zeitun- 


POLITISCHES   IN   DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  597 

gen,  in  der  leibhaftigen  Wirklichkeit  aber  ist  die  Arbeit  schwie- 
riger,  als  mit  vvilliger  Tinte  auf  widerstandslosem  Papier. 

Man  kann  zugeben,  dass  in  dem  ostasiatischen  Problem  ein 
Schritt  vorvvarts  gemacht  worden  ist.  Aber  audi  nur  ciii 
Schritt,  und  es  werden  sicher  iioch  sehr  viele  Schritte  vor- 
warts  und  ruckwarts  und  ^eitwiirts  von  alien  Beteiligten 
gemacht  werden,  ehe  das  Ende  des  Marsches  auch  nur  in 
ubersehbare  Nahe  gelangen  wird. 

Der  Schritt,  der  gemacht  vvurde,  hat  fiir  Deutschland  heute 
nur  eine  wirtschaftliche  Bedeutung ;  er  hat  fur  Russland 
dagegen  zunachst  vor  allem  eine  politische  Bedeutung.  Das 
ist  der  Unterschied,  der  die  Besetzimg  der  Bucht  von 
Kiaotschau  seitens  Deutschlands  und  die  Besetzung  Port 
Arthurs  seitens  Kusslands  unterscheidet. 

1st  man  in  Deutschland  richtig  unterrichtet,  so  hat  die 
englische  Reginuig  diesen  Unterschied  sogleich  zutreffend 
erkannt ;  dass  die  englische  offentliche  Meinung  gleich  richtig 
die  Lage  aufgefasst  habe,  kann  man  nicht  behaupten. 

Seit  einem  Augenblick,  der  sich  genau  bestimmen  lasst,  ist 
die  englische  offentliche  Meinung  in  hohem  Grade  unfreundlich 
gegen  Deutschland  gestimmt.  Ich  behaupte  nicht,  dass  wir 
mit  der  Sanftmut  von  Engeln  uns  benehmen.  Die  Abwagung 
der  Schuld  bei  solchen  unerquicklichen  Erorterungen  versuche 
ich  nicht  souveran  vorzunehmen  ;  im  AUgemeinen  besteht  die 
Unparteilichkeit  jeder  Nation  darin,  zu  sagen  :  "  Right  or 
wrong,  my  country."     Es  ist  so  —  bedauerlicher  Weise. 

Es  gibt  in  alien  civilisirten  Staaten  eine  grosse  Anzahl 
einzelner  Personen  von  hochstem  Gerechtigkeitsgefiihl  und 
hochster  Unparteilichkeit ;  gerechte  und  unparteiische  Massen 
und  Volker  gibt  es  nicht  — ,  dieses  Ideal  gehort  der  Zukunft ; 
wird  es  sich  je  erreichen  lassen  und  heisst  nicht  Mivsse 
Betaubung  der  Feinfuhligkeit,  der  klaren  und  ruhigen 
Besonnenheit  ?  Ftir  mich  geniigt  es,  festzustellen,  dass  die 
Besetzung  der  Bucht  von  Kiaotschau  einen  Ausbruch  feind- 
licher  Gefuhle  in  der  englischen  Presse  gegen  Deutschland 
hervorrief ;  und  .dieses  Zeichen  der  iiblen  Laune  war  mit 
realen  Drohungen  verknupft. 

Man  fuhrte  Deutschland  zu  Gemiite,  dass  die  englische 
Flotte  in  der  Lage  sein  wurde,  unsere  Kriegsschiffe  von  dem 


598  COSMOPOLIS. 

Meere  verschwinden  zu  lassen.  Ob  dies  ganz  leichl  ware,  mag 
dahingestellt  bleiben  ;  aber  es  wurde  gelingen  konnen.  Sir 
M.  W.  Ridley,  jetziger  Staatssekretar  in  England,  verallge- 
meinerte  alsdann  die  kriegerische  Betrachtung  in  einer  offent- 
lichen  Rede.  Er  behauptete,  England  sei  stark  genug,  jeder 
Coalition  von  Machten  im  Osten  die  Stirn  bieten  zu  konnen  ; 
England  habe  den  Schliissel  der  Lage  in  der  Hand  ;  denn 
wenn  es  zu  einem  Zusammenstoss  korame,  dann  werde  es  ein 
Zusammenstoss  auf  der  See  sein,  und  wer  dann  gewanne,  das 
wisse  man  in  England  recht  gut. 

Sind  diese  Voraussehungen  richtig  ?  Ich  wiirde  auf  diese 
Frage  nicht  eingelien,  wenn  ich  nicht  glaubte,  dass  es  ebenso 
heilsam  ware,  gegen  die  Auffassung  anzukampfen,  die  der 
deutsche  Bierbanjcpolitiker  hegt,  es  sei  die  englische  Nation 
ein  Kramervolk,  das  auf  dem  WoUsack  sitzt,  wie  es  zweck- 
miissig  ist,  die  andere  Auflfassung  zuriickzuweisen,  die  jedem 
englischen  Coupletsanger  den  sturmischen  Beifall  seiner  Zu- 
horer  eintragt,  wenn  er  singt,  Britanniens  Flotte  sei  unuber- 
windlich  und  nach  keinem  Volke  der  Erde,  die  alle  Knechte 
seien,  habe  der  echte  Brite  einen  Pfiffcrling  zu  fragen. 

Gibt  es  auch  in  einer  cng  umgrenzten  Spharc  beachtens- 
werte  personliche  enghsch-deutsche  Verstimmungcn,  so  beruht 
doch  bei  den  Massen  auf  vulgiiren  Vorurteilen  in  weit 
erheblicherem  Umfang,  als  man  glaubt  und  als  man  eingestelien 
will,  jene  Reizbarkeit,  die  bei  uns  gegen  England  und  die  in 
England  gegen  uns  vorhanden  ist.  Solche  Vorurteile  zu 
masten,  sollte  ein  aufgeklarter  Patriotismus  verbieten. 

Es  ware  sehr  unklug,  die  moralische,  die  intellektuelle  und 
niaterielle  Macht  Englands  anders  als  sehr  hoch  zu  veran- 
schlagen,  aber  es  ist  andererseits  zweifellos,  dass  die  politi- 
schen  Verhaltnisse  unserer  Tage  die  internationale  Stellung 
Englands  wesentlich  verandert  haben. 

Zutreflfend  ist  es  nicht,  dass  England  den  Schliissel  der  Lage 
in  der  Hand  hat,  —  auch  nicht  fur  den  Fall,  dass  es  unbe- 
schrankt  die  Sec  beherrschen  sollte  —  die  Aufstande  an  der 
indischen  Grenze,  die  bisher  nicht  iiberwaltigt  worden  sind, 
w-eisen  auf  die  verwundbarste  Stelle  am  Korper  des  britischen 
Weltreiches ;  und  auch  Aegypten  ist  unter  gewissen  Voraus- 
setzungen  eine  Position,  die  nicht  leicht  zu  verteidigen  sein  wird. 


POUTISCHES   IN    DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  599 

Eine  ernste  Bedrohung  Englands  in  Indien  wie  in  Aegypten 
hat  eines  jedoch  ziir  Voraussetzung  :  die  Bedrohung  kann 
allein  durch  Russland  und  andererseits  durch  Frankreich  oder 
durch  beide  gemeinsam  ausgefiihrt  werden,  und  auf  dieses 
ernste  Unternehmen  werden  sich  beide  Sta^iten  nur  einlassen, 
wenn  der  eine  fur  seine  Ostgrenze,  der  andere  fiir  seine 
Westgrenze  sich  jeder  Beunruhigung  entschlagen  kann.  Jede 
Verschlechterung  der  Beziehungen  zwischen  Deutschland  und 
England  wird  DeutschUmd  veranlasssen,  sich  mit  dem 
Zarenreiche  umso  besser  zu  stellen,  von  dem  uns  nicht  ein- 
mal  ein  ferner  liegender  politischer  Gegensatz  scheidet,  seitdem 
der  turkischen  Frage  ihre  Gefahren  genommen  sind.  Und 
haben  wir  gute  Beziehungen  zu  Russland,  so  wenden  sich  auch 
in  Frankreich  die  Blicke  von  der  Ostgrenze  fort.  Je  beruhigter 
uberdie  Haltung  Deutschlands  das  Zarenreich  und  Frankreich 
sein  kann,  umso  tatkraf tiger  konnen  beide  Reiche  ihren  Unter- 
nehmungen  in  Asien  und  Afrika  obliegen,  die  sich  wirtschaft- 
lich  und  politisch  gegen  die  englische  Herrschaft  richten. 

Man  braucht  nicht  an  einen  Zusammenstoss  der  beiden 
Machte  mit  England  im  Handumdrehen  zu  glauben  ;  die 
Wirklichkeit  ist  glucklicherweise  langsamer  als  die  Phan- 
tasie  ;  aber  der  Druck,  die  politische  Riicksichtslosigkeit,  die 
Russland  und  Frankreich  gegen  England  auszuiiben  vermogen, 
erhoht  sich  in  dem  Maasse,  wie  Deutschland  die  Sicherheit 
gewahrt,  dass  auch  ihm  eine  Zuriickdrangung  englischen 
EinHusses  genehm  erscheint. 

Die  unleugbare  Ueberlegenheit  der  englischen  Flotte  macht 
Deutschland  darum  noch  nicht  zu  einer  Macht,  die  ohne 
Rucksicht  zu  behandeln  politisch  bedeutungslos  ist. 

Wirft  man  die  Moglichkeit  eines  offenen  Konfliktes  zwischen 
England  und  Deutschland  in  das  Gebiet  des  Abenteuerlichen, 
so  bleibt  als  Rest  iibrig,  dass  beide  Reiche  sich  mancherlei 
Nadelstiche  untergeordneter  Art  gegenseitig  versetzen  konnen  ; 
aber  Deutschland  kann  iiberdies  noch  Eines.  Es  kann  in 
grosserem  oder  geringerem  Grade  die  Krafte  Russlands  und 
Frankreichs  binden  oder  frei  machen,  imd  jedesmal,  wenn 
russische  und  franzosische  Krafte  in  grosserem  Umfange  frei 
werden,  spurt  es  England  sehr  unangenehm  an  seinem  Leibe. 

Die  englische   Regirung  zieht  wie  der   Augenschein  lehrt. 


6oO  COSMOPOLIS. 

diese  Moglichkeiten  weit  ernster  in  Kechnung  als  die 
englische  ofFentliche  Meinung.  Auch  nicht  einen  Augenblick 
spiegelten,  wie  bestimmt  versichert  wird,  die  oftiziellen  Bezie- 
hungen  zwischen  Berlin  und  London  jene  Stimmungen  wieder, 
die  zuniichst  in  der  englischen  Presse  zura  Ausdruck  gekom- 
mcn  sind. 

Analysirt  man  nuchtern,  was  denn  Deutschland  und  England 
trennt,  so  stosst  man  auf  Verstimraungen,  aiif  Gereiztheiten, 
auf  zahlreiche  Vorgange,  die  sich  im  Gebiete  der  Empfin- 
dungen  abspielen,  und  ausserdem  auf  Handelsrivalitaten,  die 
vorhanden  sind  und  deren  Bedeutung  man  in  England,  um 
die  eigene  Tatkraft  anzuspornen,  wesentlich  ubertreibt, 
wahrend  wir  solche  Uebertreibung,  weil  sie  unserer  Tuch- 
tigkeit  schmeichelt,  wolgefallig  hinzunehmen  scheinen.  Tief- 
gehende  poiitische  Gegensatze  zwischen  England  und  Deutsch- 
land gibt  es  nicht,  auch  nicht,  seitdem  wir  uns  in  Kiaotschau 
festgesetzt  haben. 

Die  Aeusserungen  Balfours,  die  keine  Spur  von  der  ur- 
sprunglichen  Erregung  der  englischen  Presse  zeigen  und  die 
bei  uns  einen  vortrefflichcn  Eindruck  gemacht  haben,  rucken 
fur  Deutschland  und  England  die  ostasiatische  Frage  in  das 
rechte  Licht. 

Balfour  betrachtet  die  Besetzung  von  Kiaotschau  nicht  als 
eine  poiitische  Bedrohung  fiir  England ;  mit  Recht ;  dazu 
fehlt  Deutschland  —  abgesehen  von  dem  Willen  —  das  reale 
Instrument  fur  eine  solche  Politik  :  die  entsprechende  Flotte. 
So  verlangt  denn  Balfour  nur,  dass  diese  Besetzung  nicht  eine 
handelspolitische  Bedrohung  bedeute  ;  wiederum  mit  Recht. 

Auf  diese  englischen  Zweifel  ist  sogleich  von  Deutschland 
eine  unumwundene  offiziose  Antwort  ergangen,  die  bei  uns 
auf  alien  Seiten  Beifall  gefunden  hat ;  sie  lautet : 

Deutschland  hat  die  Absicht,  das  von  China  abgetretenc  Gebiet  und 
das  daliinter  gelegene  reiche  Hinterland  wirtschaftlich  aufzuschlicssen  ; 
cs  rcchnet  dabci  in  erster  Linie  auf  die  Mitwirkung  dcutschcr  Kaufleutc 
iind  (iewerbetreibenden,  die  hier  ein  weites  Feld  ertragreichcr  Wirksam- 
keit  tinden  wcrden.  Abcr  so  gut  wie  Deutschland  nicht  die  Absicht  hat,  die 
dcutschcn  Kaufleutc  und  Gewerbetreibenden  lediglich  auf  die  Provinz  Shantung 
fcstzulcgen,  ebenso  wenig  kann  Deutschland  daran  liegen,  unternehmenden 
iiusliindischen  Wettbewcrb  von  dem  jetzigen  deutschen  Gebiete  und  scinem 
Hinterlande  grundsdtzlich  fernzuhalten.  . .  .  Mit  den  gleichen  Anschauungen 
stcht  audi  Deutschland  den  englischen  Bemiihungen  gegenuber,  China 
durch  flic  Macht  eincr  grossen  Anleihc  wieder  mehr,  als  dies  in  den  Ictztcn 


POLITISCHES   IN   DEUTSCHER   BELEtJCHTUNG.  6oi 

Jahren  der  Fall  war,  unter  englischen  Einfluss  zu  stellen.  Den  Vorteil 
hicrvon  wcrdcn  nichi  nur  die  englischen  Kaufleute,  sondcrn  nicht  minder  auch 
alle  ausliindischen  Gewcrbetrcibenden  haben,  infibcsonderc  anch  unsere 
deuischen.  . .  . 

Diese  Antwort,  die  zugleich  die  Frage  der  chinesischen 
Anleihe  beruhrt,  betont  die  weitgehende  Solidaritat  der 
kaufmannischen  Interessen  Englands  iind  Deiitschlands.  Eine 
Erschliessung  Chinas  kommt  beiden  Landern  zugut,  und  eine 
Erschliessung  Chinas  ofifnet  ein  so  ungeheures  Gebiet,  dass 
fur  die  Entfaltung  englischer  wie  deiitscher  Tatigkeit  hin- 
langlicher  Spielraum  bleibt. 

Man  hat  unter  diesen  Umstanden  gefragt :  wozii  brauchte 
Deutschland  Kiaotschau  alsdann  zu  besetzen,  da  England 
doch  unter  Festhalten  seiner  aufgeklarten  bisherigen  Politik 
seine  chinesischen  Hafen  dem  Handel  aller  Lander  offen 
halt  ?  In  einer  gewissen  Richtung  gibt  auf  diese  Frage  ein 
scharfblickender  Englander  die  Antwort  ;  V.  Chirol  —  er  war 
in  Berlin  bekannt  genug  —  bereiste  nach  dem  japanisch- 
chinesichen  Kriege  den  Osten  und  seine  Beobachtungen 
veroffentlichte  er  alsdann.*     Er  schreibt  : 

Auch  die  Interessen  Deiitschlands  sollten  trotz  des  heissen  komnici- 
ciellcn  Wcttkampfes  auf  die  Dauer  den  unsercn  nicht  cntgegenstchen, 
denn  was  Deutschland  erstrcbt,  ist  das,  was  der  en^Hschc  Kinfluss  von  jc 
her  uberall  zu  erreichen  bemOht  gewesen  ist,  niimlich  offcne  Marktc  und 
Spielraum  fiir  kommcrcielle  und  industriclle  Betiitigiing.  Auch  der 
Wunsch  Deutschlands,  eine  Kohlenstation  an  der  chinesischen  KQstc  zu 
erwerben,  die  seiner  Flotte  als  Stiitzpunkt  dienen  konnte,  wenn  sie  in  den 
ostasiatischen  Gewassern  durch  eine  unerwartcte  Kriegscrklarun^  iibcr- 
rascht  werden  sollte,  kann  nicht  schlechtweg  unverniinfti^  gcnannt 
werdcn,  so  lange  es  bei  dessen  Erfiillung  den  britischen  Interessen  und 
Vertragsrechten  gebiirende  Achtung  entgegenbringt.  Ks  ist  auch  nicht 
der  leiseste  Grund  vorhanden,  weshalb  wir  es  ihm  nachtragen  sollten,  das^ 
es  sich  Russland  und  Frankreich  bei  ihrcr  Intervention  zu  Ciunsten  Chinas 
anschloss,  wahrend  wir  es  vorzogen,  davon  .abzustchen.  Ks  kann  an  der 
Aufrichtigkeit  seines  damals  geilussertcn  Wunsches,  England  niogc 
dcnselbcn  Weg  einschlagcn,  nicht  gczwcifelt  werden  ;  cs  lag  in  uiisenr 
VVcigerung  cbenso  wenig  Feindseligkeit  gegen  Deutschland.  wie  in  dessen 
Festhalten  an  seinem  Entschluss  Feindseligkeit  gegen  uns,  und  insofern 
Deutschland  zweifellos  seine  etwas  widerstrebenden  Genossen  miissigend 
becinflusste,  haben  wir  gewiss  keinen  Grund,  seincn  Entschluss  zu  bedauern. 

Diesen  vorurteilslosen  Betrachtungen  ware  nur  noch  eines 
hinzuzufugen,  um  die  Bedeutung  und  den  Nutzen  der  Bese- 
tzung  von  Kiaotschau  zu  erharten. 

•  Auch  deutsch  :  Die  Lagein  Ost-Asien.     Von  Valentine  Chirol.     Berlin  1897, 
.  Rale— Eine  vortreffliche  Schrift, 


6o2  COSMOPOLIS. 

Es  ist  richtigy  dass  E>eutschland  durch  die  engiischen 
Vertragshafen  kaufmannische  Verbindungen  mit  China 
aufrechf  erhalten  kann  ;  aber  die  Neuzeit  hat  eine  Art  wirt- 
schaftlicher  Beziehungen  geschaffen,  fur  die  es  nicht  genugt, 
als  Wettbewerber  mit  "  zugelassen "  zu  werden ;  oder  es 
genuiigt  das  wenigstens  nicht  in  bestimmten  Landern. 

Seide  und  Thee  kann  der  Deutsche  in  China  so  gut  han- 
deln  wie  der  Englander  ;  aber  die  Concession  zum  Bau  von 
Eisenbahnen,  zur  Anlage  von  Kanalen,  Telegraphen,  um- 
fassendere  Minenconcessionen  erlangt  nur  jene  Nation,  deren 
kaufmannische  Vertreter  zugleich  ein  gewisses  Quantum 
realer  politischer  Macht  oder  realen  politischen  EinfUisses  in 
die  Wagschaale  zu  werfen  vermogen.  Das  ist  so  in  der 
Tiirkei,  das  ist  so  in  China  und  in  alien  jenen  Landern,  wo 
die  Zvveckmassigkeit  und  Wolfeilheit  eines  Unternehmens  fur 
den  eigenen  Staat  die  Entscheidung  des  maassgebenden 
Beamtentums  nicht  bestimmt ;  wo  goldene  Schlussel  die 
Tiiren  oflfnen,  und  wo  schliesslich  doch  jede  Antwort  und 
vor  allem  jede  der  Biiligkeit  entsprechende  Antwort  ausbleibt, 
wenn  nicht  im  Hintergrunde  drohend  eine  Macht  steht, 
gegen  die  hochmiitige  Riicksichtslosigkeit  anzuwenden  sich 
verbietet. 

Deutschland  hat  jetzt  fur  sich  im  Osten  die  Bedingungen 
geschaffen,  um  unter  gleichen  Vorteilen  wie  andere  Machte 
an  der  wirtschaftlichen  Erschliessung  Chinas  teilnehmen  zu 
konnen.  England  hat  damit  einen  riihrigen  Konkurrenten 
erhalten  ;  das  ist  richtig,  aber  die  Grosse  der  zu  losenden 
Aufgaben  wird  dem  Wettbewerb  seine  Scharfe  nehmen,  und 
sicher  wird  der  Vorteil  f  iir  beide  Nationen  dann  der  grosste 
sein,  wenn  sie  ihre  kaufmiinnischen  Krafte,  so  oft  es  sich  tun 
lasst,  associiren,  statt  gegen  einander  zu  arbeiten. 

Welche  wirtschaftlichen  Aussichten  sich  hier  erofFnen 
konnen,  dafur  will  ich  eine  Aeusserung  von  Neumann  an- 
fuhren,  die  vielleicht  zu  weit  geht,  aber  die  in  gewissem  Um- 
fange  durch  die  Zukunft  gerechtfertigt  werden  wird  ;  er  sagt : 

Eine  ganz  gcringfQgige  Steigcrung  der  BedOrfnisse  und  folglich  des 
Durchschnitts-Verbrauches  der  Volker  Ostasiens  bewirkt  schon  enorme 
Reflex-Erscheinungen  in  den  europaischen  Erzeugungs-  und  Absatzver- 
haltnisscn.  Die  Handelsbewegung  dieser  lender  ist  innerhalb  der  Jahrc 
1871 — 1883  von  3795  Millionen    auf    rund  5250    Millionen  Mark  in  die 


POLITISCHES   IN    DEUTSCHEK    BElEUCHTUNG.  603 

HOhc  gegangen,  also  um  38  Prozent,  wahrend  der  Aussenhandel  der 
nordamcrikanischen  Union  sich  in  derselben  Zeit  nur  um  25  Prozent  hob. 
Eine  Untersuchung,  welche  ich  zum  Zwecke  der  ungcfahren  Messung  des 
wachsenden  Einflusses  Ostasiens  durchfflhrtc,  hat  mir  die  Ueberaeugung 
verschafft,  dass  Europa  in  jiingster  Zeit  in  grosserer  wirtschafthcher 
Abhangigkeit  von  Ostasien  als  von  Nordamerika  steht. 

Die  wirtschaftlichen  Betrachtungen  mussen  wesentlich  in 
den  Hintergrund  treten,  und  sie  werden  von  politischen 
Betrachtungen  vollstandig  iiberschattet,  wenn  man  die 
Ereignisse  in  Ostasien  in  ihrer  Wirkung  auf  die  Beziehungen 
zwischen  England  einerseits  und  Russland  und  Frankreich 
andererseits  betrachtet. 

Die  im  Bau  begriffene  eigentliche  sibirische  Bahn  Russlands, 
die  rund  8000  Kilometer  lang  sein  und  im  Jahre  1904  dem 
Betriebe  ubergeben  werden  soil,  wird  sowol  eine  grosse 
wirtschaftliche  als  auch  eine  grosse  politische  Bedeutung 
haben.  Sie  ist  ein  Riesenwerk  ;  von  Petersburg  nach  Wladi- 
vvostock  misst  die  Bahn  iiber  10,000  Kilometer,  wahrend  die 
Amerika  durchquerende  canadische  Bahn  5000  und  die  beiden 
Qucrbahnen  der  Vereinigten  Staaten  5300  und  5600  Kilometer 
lang  sind.  Von  London  kommt  man  nach  Japan  (iber  Suez 
in  etwa  42  Tagen,  iiber  San  Francisco  in  33  und  iiber  Canada, 
Vancouver  in  28  Tagen  oder  in  etwas  weniger  Zeit.  Von 
London  nach  Wladiwostock  soil  man  dagegen  iiber  die 
sibirische  Bahn  in  18,  nach  Shanghai  in  21  Tagen  gelangen. 
Damit  ist  Petersburg  Ostasien  viel  naher  geriickt,  als  es 
London  heute  ist,  und  da  der  Export  Chinas  in  erheblichem 
Umfange  aus  Qualitatswaare,  Seide  und  Thee  besteht,  denen 
der  Landtransport  iiberdies  zutraglicher  ist,  so  wird  die  Bahn 
in  die  Handelsbeziehungen  eine  tiefgehende  Umwalzung 
bringen,  die  Ost-  und  Mitteleuropa  zugute  kommt. 

Vollig  klar  ist  die  Bedeutung  der  Bahn  in  politischer 
Beziehung ;  sie  gewiihrt  Russland  fur  seine  ostasiatischen 
Unternehmungen  eine  durchaus  gesicherte  Verbindungslinie, 
wahrend  die  englische  langere  Seelinie  eine  gleiche  Sicherheit 
nicht  bietet. 

Um  die  politischen  Verschiebungen,  die  hier  schon  vor- 
handen  sind,  zu  beleuchten,  citire  ich  nochmals  Chirol,  der 
unmittelbar  nach  dem  chinesisch-japanischen  Kriege  schrieb  : 

England  hat  bis  vor  Jahrcsfrist,  fast    unangefochten,  in  Ostasien    die 
Obcrherrschaft  gefiihrt,  und  zwar  walircnd  cines  Zeitraumcs  von  mehr  als 


604  COSMOPOLIS. 

einem  halben  Jahrhundert.  .  .  .  Als  dann  endlich  die  beiden  Gegncr 
(Japan  and  China)  Friedensbedingungen  aufstellten,  die  die  merkantilen 
iind  politischen  Interessen  Englands  schr  nahc  beruhrten,  wenn  auch 
nicht  effectiv  schiidigten,  trat  Kngland  schcinbar  unbekiimmert  ziiruck. 
wahrend  Russland,  Frankrcich  und  Deutschland  an  seine  Stelle  aN 
'•  arbiter  gentium  "  in  Ostasien  einriickten. 

Die  Weiterentvvicklung  dieser  Politik  war,  dass  Deutschland 
schliesslich  Kiaotschau  besetzte  ;  dass  Russland  eine  geheime 
Convention/ J  mit  China  abschloss  und  Port  Arthur  nahm, 
wahrend  Frankreich  erhebliche  Teile  der  Provinz  Ciang-hung 
erwarb,  obgleich  England  prolestirte  und  zu  einem  Protest  ein 
formelles  Recht  hatte.     Chirol  schreibt  : 

Ks  haben  wedcr  die  Organe  der  franzosischen  Kolonialausbreitung. 
noch  auch  verantwortlichere  Blatter  einen  Augenblick  gezogert,  die 
Convention  von  Tonking  nur  als  eine  Einfiihrung  der  Politik  zu  bezeichnen, 
die  die  f  ranzosische  Tricolore  das  Thai  des  Mekong  hinauf  nach  Yun-nan 
und  Szu-tschuan  tragen  und  schliesslich  einen  franzosischen  Keil  zwischen 
British-Birma  und  das  Thai  des  Yang-tze-Kiang,  das  naturliche  Bollwerk 
britischen  Kinflusses  in  China,  treiben  soil.  Das  Vorgehen  Frankreichs 
von  Siiden  her  wiirdc  dcm  Russlands  von  Xorden  her  entgegenarbeitcn 
und  England  von  bcidcn  hinausgedriingt  wcrdcn. 

Eincr  solchcn  Politik  konnte  Grossbritannien  nie  zustimmen. 

Diese  fur  England  noch  fern  liegenden  Gefaliren  entstanden 
aus  einer  falschen  Beurteilung  der  Kraft  Chinas.  Was  Sir 
Lepel  Griffin  einmal  in  der  "  Nineteenth  Century  "  sagte,  war 
cin  Axiom  in  England  : 

Die  wichtigste  politische  Frago  der  ostlichen  Welt,  von  welchcr  die 
Zukunft  Englands  vielleicht  mchr  abhangt,  als  von  irgend  einer  andercn 
Eragc,  ist  cin  Vertcidigungsbiindnis  zwischen  England  und  China. 

Aber  China  ist  nicht  mehr  biindnisfahig  und  befindet  sich 
liberdies  zur  Zeit  polilisch  in  hoherem  Grade  in  der  Hand  von 
Russland  und  Krankreich  als  der  Englands.  Ob  aber  England 
sein  Gluck  mit  dem  Japans  wird  verkelten  woilen  ? 

Japan  in  seiner  insularen  Lage  hatte  alsdann  weniger 
zu  furchten  ;  die  Passe  des  Himalaya  dagegen  lassen  sich 
durch  eine  Flotte  nicht  sperren. 

Sicher  ist :  die  englische  Politik  hat  zwci  Factoren,  auf  die 
sie  fruher  sich  gegen  Russland  zu  stutzen  suchte,  verloren. 
Sie  hat  die  Tiirkei  verloren,  und  sic  hat  jetzt  China  verloren  ; 
und  Frankreich  ist  jetzt  fur  England  —  wie  sich  in  Sudchina, 
im  Sudan,  am  Nigger,  in  Aegypten  zeigt — ein  sehr  unbequemer 
politischer  Rivale,  wenn  nicht  mehr,  geworden, 


POLITISCHES   IN   DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  605 

Die  asiatischen  Aussichten  bleiben  fiir  England  ernst  ;  dafiir 
ist  auch  ein  bemerkenswertes  Anzeichen  die  Ernennung  des 
neuen  nissischen  Kriegsministers. 

Miljutin  und  Wannowski  haben  die  russische  militarische 
Kraft  in  Europe  ausserordentlich  gehoben  ;  der  neue  Kriegs- 
minister  Kuropatkin,  Gouverneur  von  Transkaspien,  hat  seine 
gesamte  Dienstzeit  in  Asien  verbracht,  und  er  wird  bezeich- 
nender  Weise  geradezu  der  "asiatische  Kriegsminister  Russ- 
lands"  genannt. 

Neue  politische  Freunde  hat  sich  England  nicht  erworben  ; 
aber  es  scheint,  dass  es  dabei  ist,  fiir  seine  asiatische  Stellung 
in  Indien  neue  Stiitzpunkte  zu  schaffen.  Nach  dem  Persischen 
Golfe  sollen  englische  Truppen  unterwegs  sein  und  vor  allem 
Kuweit  ist  angeblich  das  Ziel  der  Expedition.  In  dieser  Gegend 
aber  etwa  musste  die  arabische  Eisenbahn  endigen,  die  das 
Mittellandische  Meer  mit  dem  Persischen  Golf  und  mit  dem 
Indischen  Ocean  verbinden  soil. 

Englische  Vorarbeiten  gibt  es  fiir  eine  Eisenbahnverbin- 
dung  von  der  syrischen  Kiiste  gegeniiber  Cypern  durch  das 
Euphratthal  zum  Persischen  Golf,  und  diese  Linie  ware  eine 
neue  sehr  wertvolle  und  sehr  kurze  Verbindung  mit  Indien  ; 
aber  diese  Plane  haben  eine  Voraussetzung,  die  heute  nicht 
zutrifft :  freundschaftlich  enge  Bezieliungen  zwischen  England 
und  der  Tiirkei.     Die  Tiir  hat  sich  England  fiir  jetzt  selbst 

verschlossen. 

*  » 

* 

Zu  den  Reizen,  welche  die  Cosmopolis  ihren  Mitarbei- 
tern  bietet,  gehort  auch  der,  dass  dem  Schriftsteller  in  einem 
Umfang,  wie  fast  nirgends,  die  Moglichkeit  gegeben  ist,  zu 
den  Angehorigen  dreier  grosser  Kultursprachen  zu  reden. 
Das  ist  ein  grosser  Reiz,  aher  zugleich  legt  er  Pflichten  auf. 

Es  ist  weniger  schwierig,  an  einen  Kreis  von  Lesern  sich  zu 
wenden,  die  durch  dasselbe  nationale  Empfinden  und  so  oft 
durch  dieselben  nationalen  Vorurteile  zusammengehalten 
werden.  Wird  dieser  Kreis  iiberschritten,  so  bringt  das 
Beriihren  von  besonders  peinvollen  Fragen  die  Gefahr  mit 
sich,  dass  jenseits  der  eigenen  Grenzen  sich  solchen  Worten 
die  Ohren  und  vor  allem  die  Herzen  verschliessen.  Und  mit 
Recht  ;  denn  es  gibt  gewisse  intime  Erorterungen,  die  nur  in 

vol..  IX.— NO.  XXVI.  19 


6o6  COSMOPOLIS. 

die  enge  Familie  oder  in  die  nationale  Familie  gehoren.  An 
diesen  Erorterungen  werde  ich  nicht  teilnehmen,  wenn  ich 
von  dem  Fall  Dreyfus — denn  Um  den  handelt  es  sich — spreche. 

Ich  habe  erklarlicher  Weise  nicht  die  Absicht,  zu  den  vielen 
Richtern  ohne  Amt  als  neuer  weiser,  gerechter  Richter 
hinzuzutreten  ;  ich  will  weder  richten,  noch  bekehren,  aber 
wie  man  in  einem  Salon,  in  dem  Katholiken,  Protestanten, 
Juden,  Muhammedaner  und  Freigeister  versammelt  sind,  soli 
auf  der  Gesellschaft  nicht  ein  oder  langweiliger  Zwang  lasten 
auch  iiber  Religion,  unter  Beriicksichtigung  der  Gefuhle 
Anderer,  muss  sprechen  diirfen,  so  will  ich  versuchen,  einige 
wenige  Seiten  der  vielgestaltigen  Dreyfus-Angelegenheit  so  zu 
zeigen,  wie  wir  in  Deutschland  diese  Seiten  sehen.  Ueber  dieses 
Ereignis  zu  schweigen,  das  alle  Welt  aufs  Tiefste  bewegt,  ware 
eine  Feigheit. 

1st  Dreyfus  unschuldig  ?  Dariiber  hege  ich  Vermuttingen, 
die  sich  auf  Aiizeichen  stiitzen  ;  aber  ich  wciss  daruber  nichts, 
denn  Wissen  beruht  auf  der  Kenntnis  von  Tatsachen,  die  fur 
unumstosslich  gelten.  An  dieserjStelle  aber  gleichfalls  eine 
Vermutung  auszusprcchen,  hiesse  nur  zu  den  vorhandenen 
grossen  Staubwolken  noch  etwas  Staub  hinzufugen.  Ueber 
diesen  Punkt  zu  sprechen  geburt  denen,  die  da  wissen  oder 
zu  wissen  behaupten. 

1st  Dreyfus  unschuldig  verurteilt,  so  muss  man  schaudern 
bei  dem  Gedanken  der  Qualen,  die  alsdann  dieser  Mann  zu 
erdulden  hat.  Aber  er  ware  leider  nicht  der  erste  unschuldig 
Verurtcilte  ;  er  wurde  leider  nicht  der  letzte  sein.  Mensch- 
liche  Schwache  und  menschliche  Unvollkommenheit  werden 
immer  wieder  zu  so  traurigem  Ergebnis  fuhren. 

Nur  nach  Einem  kann  die  Menschheit  erfolgreich  streben  : 
sie  kann  Sorge  tragen,  dass  alle  jene  Garantien,  die  das 
modcrne  Gesetz  kennt,  um  dem  Rechtsirrtum  vorzubeugen, 
unbedingt  zur  Anwendung  gelangen.  Und  so  liat  denn  bei 
den  besonnensten  und  leidenschaftslosesten  Beurteilern  in 
Deutschland  der  Standpunkt  des  Senators  Trarieux  vor  allem 
Sympathie  erweckt.  Er  verlangte  von  der  Regirung  eine 
Priifung  und  Auskunft  daruber,  ob  der  Prozess  gegen  Dreyfus 
unter  Beobachtung  jener  Vorschriften  gefuhrt  worden  ist,  die 
das  franzosische  Recht  als  einen  Schutz  gegen  den  Rechtsirrtum  . 


POLITISCHES    IN   DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  607 

schuf.  Ueber  das  Gewicht  von  Schuld-  oder  Unschuldbeweisen 
mag  man  streiten ;  objectiv  feststellen  lasst  sich  aber  die 
Tatsache,  ob  aus  irgend  welcheni  Grunde  —  aus  Versehen 
oder  aus  Uebereilung  oder  aus  anderen  Motiven  —  das  Gesetz 
fur  die  Prozessfiihrung  nicht  in  vollem  Umfange  zur 
Anwendung  gelangt  ist. 

Das  bestehende  Gesetz  muss  der  Schutzwall  der  Gesellschaft 
gegen  den  Verbrecher  sein  und  der  Schutzwall  der  unschuldig 
Angeklagten  gegen  den  Rechtsirrtum. 

Zola  mit  seiner  machtigen  Stimme  hat  der  Entwicklung 
einen  anderen  Lauf  gegebcn  ;  und  wenn  man,  ohne  seine 
Beweismittel  zu  kennen,  auch  nicht  wissen  kann,  ob  er  Recht 
hat,  so  regt  sich  doch  bei  uns  in  Deutschland  die  Bewunderung 
fur  einen  Mann,  der  seinen  gewaltigen  Ruf,  seine  Freiheit, 
seine  irdischen  Giiter  daransetzt,  um  das  zu  bekampfen,  was  er 
fiir  ein  Unrecht  halt,  ein  Unrecht,  das  nicht  ihin,  sondern 
einem  Andern  zugefugt  sein  soil.  Est  is  kein  Zufall,  dass  gerade 
auch  die  ethischen  Gesellschaften  in  der  ganzen  Welt  von 
dieser  idealen  Uneigenniitzigkeit  ergriffen  worden  sind. 

Ob  Dreyfus  unschuldig  ist,  dariiher  kann  der  Aussenstehende 
nur  Vermutungen  hegen,  aber  wir  in  Deutschland  ivissen  Eins. 
Im  Dienste  Deutschlands  hat  Dreyfus  keine  Verraterei 
getrieben  ;  weder  direct,  noch  indirect,  bestand  jemals  irgend 
welche  Verbindung  zwischen  Dreyfus  und  irgend  einer 
amtlichen  Stelle  Deutschlands.  Dass  unsere  Regirung  dies 
offen  herauserklart  hat,  nahm  das  deutsche  Volk  hoch  auf  als 
eine  erfullte  Pflicht  im  Dienste  der  Humanitat. 

Fur  uns  in  Deutschland  ist  die  offizielle  Erklarung  unserer 
Regirung  in  dieser  Angelegenheit  unantastbar  ;  dass  die 
franzosische  Regirung  einer  solchen  Erklarung  und  auch  der 
Erklarung  des  italienischen  Militarattach^s  ein  gleiches  Ge- 
wicht beimessen  niuss^  ist  nicht  ohneweiters  zu  verlangen. 
Aber  Eins  ware  vorauszusetzen  :  sprechen  die  vorhandenen 
Beweismittel  von  einem  Verrat,  den  Dreyfus  zu  Gunsten 
von  Deutschland  verubt  haben  soil  —  und  das  scheint  aus 
der  im  "Sifecle"  veroffentlichten  Anklagesschrift  hervor- 
zugehen — ,  dann  lage  freilich  nach  der  kategorischen 
Aeusserung  unserer  Regirung  die  moralische  Pflicht  dem 
franzosischen  Ministerium    ob,   auf  das  Vorsichtigste   erneut 


6o8  COSMOPOLIS. 

zu  untersuchen  und  zu  prufen,  wo  die  Wahrheit  steckt : 
in  den  Beweismitteln  oder  in  den  unzweideutigen  Erotf- 
nungen  unserer  Kegirung. 

Nur  dieser  diinne  Faden,  den  unsere  Regirung  fur  uns 
durchschnitten  hat,  liiuft  in  der  Dreyfus-Angelegenheit  von 
Frankreich  nach  Deutschland  ;  vielleicht  ist  auch  in  Folge 
der  Art,  wie  Scheurer-Kestner  von  einem  Teil  der  franzosi- 
schen  Presse  behandelt  worden  ist,  eine  gewisse  Ruckwirkung 
auf  die  Stimmungen  von  EIsass-Lothringen  vorhanden. 

Bei  den  sich  fortspinnenden  leidenschaftlichen  Eror- 
terungen  hat  sich  von  iieuem  gezeigt,  wie  ausserordentlich  die 
Bedeutung  der  Spionage  gerade  in  Frankreich  iiberschatzt 
wird.  Es  taucht  immer  wieder  der  Gedanke  auf,  dass  das 
Wol  und  Wehe  des  Vaterlandes  davon  abhangt,  den  Verrat 
militarischer  Geheimnisse  unmogHch  zu  machen.  Militars 
denken  anders.  Was  veiraten  werden  kann,  sind  fast  immer 
untergeordnete  Kleinigkeiten,  und  das  Wichtigste  ist  nicht  zu 
verraten,  weil  es  entweder  offen  vor  aller  Augen  Hegt,  oder 
well  es  zu  jeneii  Imponderabilien  gehort,  die  erst  durch 
Tatsachen  erhartet  w^erden.  Um  die  Tiichtigkeit  und  innere 
moralische  Kraft  eines  Volkes  abzuschatzen,  dazu  bedarf  es 
nicht  der  Spionc,  und  es  ist  ein  Franzose,  Montesquieu, 
gewesen,  der  zuerst  die  Geschichtssauffassung  vertiefte,  indem 
er  sagte  :  gewonnene  Schlachten  und  verlorene  Schlachten, 
gewonnenc  Kriege  und  verlorene  Kriege  sind  das  Ergebnis  der 
bisherigen  Entwicklung  eines  Volkes,  aber  nicht  das  Ergebnis 
zufalliger  Constellation.  Die  Tiichtigkeit  oder  Genialitat  der 
Feldherren  aber  sind  solange  Imponderabilien,  bis  die 
Erfahrung  gesprochen  hat. 

Es  ist  rich  tig,  dass  die  grossen  Militarstaaten  auf  die 
Spionage  nicht  voUkommen  verzichten,  und  man  w-ird  Spione, 
wenn  man  sie  iiberfiihrt,  bestrafen.  Aber  das  beweist  nichts 
fiir  die  Bedeutung  der  Spionage.  Man  sieht  auch  manchmal, 
dass  die  gewaltigen  Oceandampfer,  die  von  riesigen  Maschinen 
getrieben  werden,  ein  p<iar  kleine  Segel  setzen,  wenn  sich  die 
Gelegenheit  bietet,  vor  Wind  zu  fahren.  Vielleicht  spart  der 
Dampfer  mit  dieser  Hilfe  ein  paar  Tonnen  Kohlen,  aber  uber 
See  kommt  er  mit  diesen  Segeln  nicht ;  ohne  Kohlen  und 
Dampf  geht  es  nicht,  und  auch  die  Spionage  wird  niemals  die 


POLITISCHES   IN   DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  609 

Entscheidung  uber  einen  Fcldzug  bringen ;  sie  ist  ein  armseliges 
Hilfsmittel,  das  fast  stets  bedeutungslos  ist. 

Ein  intelligenter  Beobachter,  der  seinem  Land  berichtet, 
was  der  Scharfblick  offen  daliegen  sieht,  ist  unendlichj-mehr 
wert,  als  ein  ganzer  Schwarm  von  Spionen,  die  ein  paar  diirftige 
Mitteilungen  aus  verschlossenen  Fachern  holen. 

Als  der  Historiker  Friedjung  iiber  die  Bedeutung  der  Spio- 
nage  im  Hinblick  auf  den  Krieg  Preussens  gegen  Oesterreich 
mit  Moltke  sprach,  sagte  dieser  :  **  Man  hat  darin  sehr  iiber- 
trieben,  wie  uberhaupt  das  ganze  Spionenwesen  vor  und  im 
Kriege  einen  sehr  untergeordneten  Wert  besitzt. 

Nicht  nur  die  Ueberschatzung  der  Spionage  hat  sich 
neuestens  gezeigt ;  die  Tatsachen  erharteten  gleichzeitig,  wie 
sehr  die  Presse,  in  diesem  Fall  die  grosse  Presse,  iiberschatzt 
wird.  Die  grosscn  Blatter  sind  vielfach  grosse  Handelsunter- 
nehmungen  geworden,  in  dcncn  gcwaltige  Kapitalien  sleeken. 
Diese  Blatter  reprasentiren  mit  Treue  die  Anschauungen 
jener  Leserschaar,  die  sie  hiiiter  sich  haben  ;  aber  wenn 
plotzlich  neue  Fragen  auftauchen,  die  die  Bcvolkerung  in  neue 
Gruppirungen  zu  zerreissen  drohen,  dann  scheiien  sich  die 
grossen  Blatter  oft,  durch  entschiedene  Parteinahme  solche 
Zerkliiftung  auch  in*  die  eigene  Leserschaar  hineinzutragen. 
Sie  mogen  die  Kapitalien,  die  in  ihnen  angelegt  sind,  nicht 
aufs  Spiel  setzen  ;  sie  umgehen  die  gefahrlichen  Klippen  und, 
statt  die  offentliche  Meinung  zu  fiihren,  lassen  sie  sich  von  ihr 
fuhren.  "  Ich  bin  ihr  Anfiihrer,  folglich  muss  ich  ihnen  folgen." 

Alsdann  aber  geht  die  Leitung  auf  die  kleine  Presse  iiber, 
die  wenig  oder  nichts  zu  vcrlieren  hat,  und  so  ist  in  der  Tat 
die  Bewegung  in  Frankrcich  bisher  im  Wesentlichen  auf 
beiden  Seiten  durch  jene  Journale  gefiihrt  worden,  von  denen 
man  sonst  politisch  kaum  Noliz  nimmt.  Darin  liegt  fur  die 
praktische  Politik  eine  Lehrc  fiir  die  Zukunft.  Das  kleine 
Organ,  das  keine  Riicksichten  nimmt,  bedeutet  in  cntscheidcH' 
der  Stunde  mehr  als  die  grosse,  wol  eingefuhrte  Zeitung. 

Jetzt  freilich,  wo  aus  der  Dreyfus-Angelegenheit  ein  grosser 
politischer  Kampf  zu  werden  droht,  tritt  iangsam  eine  Wand- 
lung  ein.  Nachdem  der  Disput  in  die  Strasse  hinabgestiegen 
ist,  und  nachdem  die  republikanischen  Blatter  und  auch  der 
Ministerprasident  M61ine  das  Wort  von   dem   wieder   aufge- 


6lO  COSMOPOLIS. 

lebten  Boulangistnus  gesprochen  haben,  weicht  allmahlich  die 
vorsichtige  Zuriickhaltung. 

Fiir  die  Beurteilung  der  Lage  ist  es  bemerkenswert,  dass 
der  Graf  de  Mun  von  der  conservativen  Rechten  den  Kampf 
in  der  Dreyfussache  von  Neuem  in  der  Deputirtenkammer 
entflammte  ;  und  wenn  ich  nicht  irre,  war  es  auch  ein  Mit- 
glied  der  Rechten,  Delahaye,  der  zuerst  die  Panamaangele- 
genheit  vor  die  Kammer  schleppte.  Nichts  ist  naturlicher  ; 
die  Gegner  des  heutigen  Regimes  in  Frankreich  haben  keine 
Veranlassung,  die  Tage  der  RepubHk  friedlich  verlaufen  zu 
lassen.  Was  die  jetzige  Republik  erschuttern  kann,  benutzen 
sie,  um  dann  das  Vaterland  auf  ihre  Weise  retten  zu  konnen. 

Man  wird  (ibrigens  finden,  dass  gleiche  Ursachen  zu  gleichen 
Wirkungen  auch  in  anderen  Landern  fuhrten. 

Ueberall  gehen  die  Parteien  der  aussersten  Rechten  ihrer 
Entwurzelung  entgegen,  und  uberall  suchen  sie  ihr  Leben  mit 
denselben  Mitteln  zu  fristen.  Bei  uns  verbanden  sich  die 
Feudalen  der  Kreuzzeitung,  der  Freiherr  von  Hammsrstein 
und  der  Hofpredigen  Stocker  mit  dem  Antisemitismus  der 
Strasse,  der  in  Deutschland  den  Namen  Ahlwardt  tragt.  In 
dem  katholischen  Oesterreich-Ungarn  Hefen  die  Faden  von 
Lueger,  dem  "  Fiihrer  des  christlichen  Volkes,"  —  man  sollte 
wiederum  hinzusetzen  :  auf  der  Strasse  — ,  zu  dem  Grafen 
Sylva-Tarouca  und  dann  vveiter  zu  dem  Hauptder  katholischen 
MilitargeistHchkeit,  dem  apostolischen  Feldvicar  Dr.  Belopo- 
toczky.  Und  in  Frankreich  sehe  ich  als  Kampfer  neben- 
einander  den  Grafen  de  Mun,  Drumont  und  Rochefort,  und 
ich  finde  in  Pariser  Blattern  den  Namen  des  Paters  du  Lac ; 
das  ergibt  im  Einzelnen  Variationen  und  doch  —  toujours  la 
mfeme  chose. 

In  Ungarn,  in  Oestereich  und  in  Deutschland  wurde  der 
Angriff  einmal  abgeschlagen  ;  auch  in  Frankreich  unterlag 
Boulanger ;  die  Entscheidung  in  Frankreich  steht  jetzt  zum 
zweiten  Mule  aus. 

Sie  ist  ernst. 

Berlin,  19.  Jamiar  1898.  Igxotus. 


LITTERARISCHES    BULLETIN. 


DIE  BUCHER  DES  MONATS. 


Dante.  Sciii  Lcbcu  mid  scin  Werk,  Sein 
VcrhitUnis  ztir  Kntist  uiid  zur  Politik. 
Von  Franz  Xaver  Krans.  Mit  zahl- 
reichen  Illustrationen.  Berlin  1897. 
(Grotesche  Verlagsbuchhandlung.) 

Wenn  Franz  Xaver  Kraus  cin  Werk 
iiber  Dante  schreibt,  so  ist  zu  erwarten, 
dass  er  etwas  zu  sagen  hat.    Man  weiss, 
dass  er  etwas  bringen  wird,  was  andere 
nicht  bringen  konnten.     Wenn  er  das 
Bild  Dantes  zeichnet,  so  tut  er  es  nicht 
als  mehr  oder  minder  geschickter  Por- 
traitist :  er  sieht  Dante  in  seineni  Wesen 
und  Schaffen,  in  all  den  feinen  Zusam- 
menhangen  mit  seiner    Zeit    und    der 
Kunst    seiner   Zeit.      Ein    Kenner    alt- 
christlicher    Kunst,   wie    wenige,    sehr 
wenige  unter  den  Lebenden,  steht  ihm 
das  gesamte  Quellenmaterial  zur  Ver- 
fugung,  und  es  ist  zu  erwarten,  dass  er 
es  gleichmassig  mit  sicherer  Kritik  sich- 
ten,  gleichmiissig  kiinstlerisch  gestaltcn 
wird.  Unmoglich,  in  einer  kurzen  Buch- 
besprechung  den  Wert  des  Werkes  auch 
nur    anniiherungsweise    feststellen     zu 
wollen  :    Lady  Blennerhassett  wird  in 
ihrer  niichsten  Revue  italienischer  Litte- 
ratur  ihm  eine  eingehende  Wiirdigung 
zuteil  werden  laseen.  —  Monumental  ist 
auch  die  Ausstattung  des  Werkes  —  das 
ist  bei  der  ublichen   Stillosigkeit   deut- 
scher   Biicherausstattung  besonders   zu 
hetonen.    Vor  allem  ist  die  farbige  Wie- 
dergabe  von  Giottos  Danteporlrait  als 
eine  Mnsterlcistung  anzncikcnucu. 

Das  SchOnc  nnd  die  Kunst.  Znr  Ein- 
fnhmng  in  die  Aesthetik.  Vortnlgc 
von  Fricdrich  Thcodor  Visclier.  Mit 
einem  Bildnis.  Stuttgart  1898.  (Vcilag 
der  J.  G.  Coltaschen  liuchhandlung 
Nachfolgcr.) 


"  Wenn  einer  die  Parthenon-Sculptu- 
rcn  von  Phidias,  die  Sixtinische  Madonna 
von   Raphael,  die   Deckengemalde  der 
Sixtinischen  Kapelle  nicht  schon  findet, 
werden  wir  dann  mit  dem  lange  Um- 
stiinde  machen  ?    Xein,  wir  werden  ihn 
slehen  lassen  und  denken,  du  bist  ein 
Esel,  denn  wir  haltendie  Richtigkeit  un- 
serer  Ansicht  hicriiber  fur  so  gewiss  als 
zwei  mal  /wei  gleich  vier  ist.     Chinesen 
und  Irokesen  werden  uns  darin  so  wenig 
irre  machen  als  Riiuber  in  unseren  Be- 
^'riften  von  Recht  und  Unrecht.    Es  gibt 
doch   ein  allgemeines   iisthetisches    Ur- 
teil."    Dieser  Satz  tindet  sich  in  Vischers 
hiervorliegenden  authentischen  Vortrli- 
gen,  und  er  kennzeichnet  Vischers  un- 
bcdinglen  Glauben   an  die  Moglichkeit 
der    Aesthetik   als    Wissenschaft.     Seit 
diese  Vortrage  gehalteii  sind,  sind  kaum 
fiinfzehn  Jahre  vergangen,  aber  ein  zer- 
setzender  Scepticismus  hat  die  Ansich- 
len  gewandelt,   und  es    ist  ein    iieuer 
l^harao    aufgekommen,  der    die  AUge- 
meingiltigkeit  jedes  asthetischen  Urteils 
vcrneint    und  achselzuckend  beliichelt. 
I'm  so  willkommener  ist  jetzt  das  Buch 
des  verstorbenen  Philosophen.  In  seiner 
kurz  gefasstcn   popularen   Art   mag  es 
jedem  ernsllichen   Sucher  willkommen 
scin,  an  scinem  Maassstab  eine  crnste 
Revision  der  eignen  Anschauungcn  vor- 
zunehmen.     I'nd  es  ist  vicles  in  diesem 
Buche,  das  bleibenden   Wert  hat  und 
behaupten  wird  :    sehr  fein  und  folge- 
richtig   ist  die   Auseinandersetzung  Vi- 
schers mit  dem  asthetischen   Fonnalis- 
mus,  die    philosophische   Grundlegung 
seiner   Aesthetik,  die  Abgren/ung    der 
cinzclncn  Kttnste  in  ihrer  Wcsenhcit,  in 


6l2 


COSMOPOLIS. 


Sumnia  :  die  asthctischcn  Einzelurtcilc, 
die  ill  tiefem  Erfassen  und  ganz  person - 
lichcr  Pnigiing  in  dcr  deutschen  Kun^t- 
kritik  ihrcs  Gleichen  suchen.  Und  was 
dein  Buch  gan/  cigenartigen  Kci/  ver- 
leiht,  ist  der  Stil,  in  dem  es  geschricben, 
rxlcr  viclmehr  nicht  geschrieben — gc- 
sprochen  wurdc.  Es  hat  den  warmen 
Haiich  des  gesprochenen  Wortes,  das 
in  jedem  Augenblick  markig  und  per- 
sOnlich  wirkt. 

Biof^rapUischcs  Jattrhuch  und  iUiitschcv 
Xckroiog.  Heraiisj^egcbcn  vou  Antoti 
licttclhcim.  Erster  Band.  Mil  den 
Bildnisscn  von  Treitschke  und  Du 
Bois-Reymond  in  Heliograviire.  Ber- 
lin 1897.    (Georg  Rcimer.) 

Ein  treuer  und  hingebungsvoller  Fur- 
derer  deutsclier  Biographik,  hat  Anton 
Bettelheim,  der  den  Lesern  dieser  /ei-- 
schrift  vertraute  Eiihrer  durcli  die  Wir- 
ren  •*  dcutscher  Bucher,"  hier  ein  I'nter- 
nehmen  ins  Leben  gerufen,  das  viel- 
seitigcn  Dankes  sicher  ist.  Neben  einer 
ausgiebigcn  Aufreihung  der  bibliogra- 
phischen  Litteratur  des  verflossenen 
Jahres,  gibt  das  Jahrbuch  kurz  gef asste 
biographischc  Darstellungen  der  voni 
f.  Januar  bis  31.  Dezember  1896  ver- 
storbenen  hcrvorragenden  Deutschen, 
iinmer  init  Hinweisen  auf  die  einschlii- 
gige  Litteratur.  Die  Nekrologe  sind 
kurz  und  sachlich  gcbalten  und  in  alpha- 
betischer  Ordnung  gcgeben.  Es  ist  eiu 
Buch,  in  dem  nian  sofort  orientirt  ist, 
und  in  dem  man  gern  verweilend  liest. 
Es  gibt  ein  Bild  deutscher  Geistesarbeii, 
und  es  weckt  ein  menschliches  Interesse 
und  sympathische  Anteilnahme.  Dazu 
kann  die  wisscnschaftliche  Ausbeute, 
die  es  bietet,  kaum  hoch  genug  veran- 
schlagt  werden.  Bettellieim  hat  recht 
daran  getan,  wcnn  er  in  seiner  Vorrede 
dies  Buch  derToten  ein  ineinent(>  viverc 
genannt  hat. 

Die  Ihlif^t-rineisicin'tihl.  Elite  lilnttliclic 
Komi}dic  in  vicr  Aden  von  Max  Bunk- 
hard.  Wien  1898.  (\''crlag  von  Robert 
Muhr.) 

In  diesen  vier  Acten  siegt  das 
bo>e  Frinzip.  richtigcr,  das  erbiirmlich 
schwachliche,  auf  ganzer  Linic.  Das 
ist  ein  keeker  Vorwurf.  Man  muss 
innerlieh  hoch  stehen,  will  man  solel.e 
Di^harmonie  trot/  ihres  schrillcn  Aus- 


klanges  harmonisch  nachklingen  lassen. 
Mit  Ifichelndem  Mitleid  mussen  die  Gc- 
stalten  gesehen  und  gezeichnet  scin,  dies 
Mitleid  muss  auf  den  Zuschauer  iibcr- 
gehen  und  ihm  hinter  der  Schlussper- 
spective  weilere  Perspective!!  eroffnen. 
Burekhard  hat  sein  Thema  als  Satiriker 
gefasst,  und  es  scheint  zweifelhaft,  ob 
der  Satiriker  im  Drama  das  letzte  Wort 
behalten  darf.  Zumal  die  Satire  \\\t 
eine  atzende  Saure  ihm  auch  die  Fadcn 
der  Hand  lung  zerfrcssen  hat  und,  sich 
zu  [freiem  Spiel  emanzipirend,  den 
Foiigang  der  Entwicklung  unterbricht. 
Immerhin  ist  Burckhards  Drama  das 
eigenartigc  Werk  ehies  feinsinnigen 
und  selbstiindigen  Mannes,  und  scharf 
sieht  man  hinter  den  scharf  utnrissenen 
Gestalten  der  Komodic  die  geistreiche 
sehritt>lellerische  Physiognomie  des 
Verfasscrs. 

Ant  zii't'i  Plant'tcn.  Roman  in  zwci 
Hftchcrn  von  Kurd  Lassu'its,  ZcMc, 
Weimar  1897.  (Vcrl.  von  Emil  Felbcr.) 

Die  deutsche  Sludirstube  ist  in  jung- 
ster  Zeit  oft  genug  zur  Statte  lufliger, 
himmclstrebender  Speculation  gewor- 
den.  Die  Wiinde  tun  sich  auf,  und  mit 
eindringlichem  Stemenglanz  breitet  sich 
ein  Sliiek  Nachthimmel  iiber  dem  trau- 
mcnden  Gelehrten  aus.  Die  Lampc 
erliseht,  die  astronomischen  Zahlcn- 
talxrilen  sind  zur  Seite  geschoben,  und 
das  Miirchen  erzahit  von  den  Bcwoli- 
nern  des  Mars,  ihrcr  seh'gen  Schwere- 
losigkcit  und  ihrem  verklaiten  Schaffen. 
Si»  entsteht  Kurd  Lasswitz's  neuer  Ko- 
man  "  Auf  zwei  Planeten."  Auf  Flugeln 
Jules  Vernescher  Phantasie  trilt  Lass- 
wit/  die  Reise  nacli  dem  Planeten  Mars 
an.  Nordpolfahrer,  die  ihr  Zicl  im 
Luftballon  errcichen,  finden  am  Pol 
eine  Niederlassung  der  Marsbewohner. 
(Jastlieh  aufgenommen,  betreten  sie  ein 
Reieh  techniseher  Selbsthcrrlichkeit. 
Es  ist  gelungen,  die  planetarische  An- 
/icluingskraft  zu  iiberwinden  und  /u 
parallclisiren.  Automatcn  spielen  die 
Bedientenrolle,  und  an  Stelle  grobsinn- 
liehen  Geiiiessens  tritt  rein  chemisch 
bereitete  Nahrung,  trelcn  Reize  elek- 
Iriseh  magnetischer  Art.  Mit  Raum- 
sehi  ffeu  wird  die  Reise  nach  dem  Mars 
selbst  angetreten,  ein  Reich  hoherer 
Kultur  tut  sich  auf  und  eine  Utopie  im 


LITTERARISCHES   BULLETIN. 


613 


Sinne  des  guten  alteii  Thomas  Moms. 
Eine  Utopie  nicht  zum  wenij^sten  sozial- 
polilischer  Art.    Vom   Nordpol  aus  er- 
obern  die  Marsineuscheii  die  Erde  mit 
Luftschiffen,  die  in  einen  Nihililpanzer 
gehiilk  sind,  der  jedes  Geschiitz  auflost 
und  unschiidlich  macht.  Bei  Portsiuoutli 
wird  die  englische    Flotte  geschla^jeii, 
und  die  Marsbewohiier  treten  die  Herr- 
schaft  iiber  die  Erde  an.     Sie  versuchen, 
die  Kultur  ihres  Plaiieten  auf  der  Erde 
<^inzufiihren  und  —  scheiterii   in  ihrer 
Aufgabe,    Weltkricg    und    Weltfrieden. 
Und  in  all  diese  Traumereien  des  phan- 
tastischen   Gelehrten,  die  sich  um   cin 
Liebesydill  zusainmenschliessen,  spielen 
<He    realen    niichternen    Zahlentabellen 
hinein,  deren  Studium  der  Trauni  ab- 
j^eiiist  hat,  und  raunen  vorwitzige  Weis- 
Iieit.     Nicht  istes  Kurd  Lasswitz  iiberall 
j»eluiigen,  dem  Trauni  den  Schein  locken- 
der  Wirklichkeil  zu  geben.   l.'eber  breite 
und  sandige  Stellen  seines  Romans  triigt 
kein   phantastisclies   Luftschiff   hinweg, 
und  die  Charakleristik*  vesagt  an  ubcr- 
zeugender  Schiu  I'e.    Aber  die  kiinstleri- 
schen  Mangel  fallen  dieser  keckcn  Eigen- 
art  gegeniiber  doch  nicht  allzu  schwer 
ins  Gewicht.    Und  was  das  Buch  bemer- 
kenswert  macht  :  es  gibt  cin  Bild  deut- 
tjchen  Gelehrtenwesens  von  einer  Seite, 
<lie  sich  dem  Einblick  zumcisl  entzieht. 


Bei  dkk  Redaction  eixgegaxgene 
BiJcHER  : 

Giistiif  a/  Gcijcrsiam  :  Ivar  Syth.  Gc- 
schichU  cincs  Unglucklichcn.  Autorisirte 
Uibcrsetzung  von  Gustav  Morg*:nstern. 
Berlin  1898  (Georg  Bondi),  Stockholm 
(C.  &  E.  Gernandt). 

Adalbsrtvon  Haintein:  Zwci  Wdtcn, 
Roman  aus  dem  modernen  Berlin.  In 
zwei  Banden.  Berlin  1898.  (Verlag  von 
Max  Schildberger.) 

Maria  Janitschek:  Ins  Lebcn  vcrirrt, 
Roman.  Berlin  1898.  (Verlag  S.  Fi- 
scher.) 

Emil  Miirriot :  NovclUn.  2.  Auflage. 
Berlin  1897.  O^erlag  Freund  &  Jaeckel.) 

Kail  A.  Tavastjeriia  :  Der  klciiic  Karl. 
Roman  eines  Knaben.  Autorisirte  Ueber- 
setzung  von  Gustav  Morgenstern.  lier- 
lin  1898  (Georg  Bondi),  Stockholm  (C. 
&  E.  Gernandt). 

Aiti^iist  Slriiitlbcrfl :  IiifVriio.  Autori- 
sirte Uebersetzung  von  Gustav  Morgen- 
stern. Berlin  1898  (Georg  Bondi),  Stock- 
holm (C.  &  E.  Gernandt). 

Ht'rmaiin  S  tide  mux  11 11  :  Johannes, 
Tragodie  in  fiinf  Acten  und  einem  Vor- 
spiel.  Stuttgart  1898.  (Verlag  der  ].  G. 
Cottaschen  Buchhandhnig  Xachfolger.) 


DIE  THEATER  DES  MONATS. 


BERLIN. 
Das  Deutsche  Theater  brachte  die 
Erstaul'liihrung    von   Sutlet ntaniis  bibli- 
scheni  Drama  jfolianncSy  das  leidcr  dtn 
liohen  Erwartungen,  die  man  der  Dich- 
lujig     cntgegenbrachte,     nicht    gerechl 
wurde.   Trotz  starker  Iheatialischcr  Ein-. 
/clwirkmigen  blieb  die  Antcihiahme  des 
Publikums    verhaltnismiissig  kiihl,    und 
luir  die  dichterisch  schwiicheren  Lciden- 
schaltsscenen    ricfen     starkcn    Applaus 
hervor.     Paul  Schlenther  wird  in  seiner 
niichsten  dramatischen  Revue  dem  Werk 
die  eingchende  kritische  Wiirdigung  zu- 
leil  werden  lassen.  —  Bernsteins  **  Miid- 
chentraum,"   Fuldas    "Jugendfreunde," 
Hauptmanns  "  Versunkene  Glocke"  und 
**  Weber"  beherrschten  im  I'ebrigcn  das 
Repertoire. 

Das       KoXIGLUHE       SCHATSlMELHArs 

brachie  ein  neues  Volkssiiick  von  Atlolf 
vol..  IX. — xo.  x.wi. 


I.'Arrongey  ^'MulUr  Thidc,'*  das  mehr- 
fach  wiederholt  wurde,  dem  aber  ein 
nachhaltiger  Erfolg  dennoch  versagt 
war.  Neben  Auffiihrungen  klassischer 
Dramen  hot  das  SchauspielhausWieder- 
holungen  von  Rudolf  Stratz'  Lustspiel 
"Das  neue  Weib"  und  Anzengrubers 
**  G'wissenswurm." 

Das  Lessixcj-Theate^  er/iclte  mit 
seinem  zwei  ten  Saisonschwank  **  Im 
weissen  Rossi "  einen  starken  Lach- 
erfolg.  Mit  *'  Hans  Huckebein "  be- 
herrschte  und  beherrscht  dieser  neue 
Scliwank  das  Repertoire. 

Der  Spielplan  der  i'lbrlgen  Berliner 
Theater  bot  wenig  Neues  und  hielt  sich 
im  Rahmcn  der  im  vorigen  Monat  ge- 
kennzeichneten  Produktion.  Erwahnens- 
wert  ist  wol  nur  die  Erstauffiihrung  von 
Richard  Voss  Drama  '' Dii  Konijil"  im 
Schillek-The.vter. 

•:o 


6i4 


COSMOl'OLIS. 


R  E  y  U  E     D  E  R     REVUE  X. 


Di'ii!,si!ic  RiiinisJitin  (.J.imiar). — \\.n 
fircni  FiuhvDllcndciilcii  cr/;iliU  Julius 
Kockiibeij^  in  Eiimicnni\^cn  aits  iln 
^ni^riiiizeif.  Hl'\  scincui  erslcii  Loii- 
doner  AuiVnlhalt  lerntc  cr  den  liiblio- 
tliekardcs  liritischcii  Mu  eunis.  Knuinuel 
Deutsch,  kenneii,  dcr  spiiicr  aul  dcni 
Gebicte  dcr  jiidibchcii  Sprach-  und  Gc- 
schlclitsforscluinj^  Hcrvoirai^cndo  Ici- 
stcn  snlltc.  Aus  dcr  ICriniierunjL;  nun 
zcichnct  Rodcnbcrj^  das  Hild  dcs  Frcun- 
dcs,  und  es  Icbt  cin  Siiick  dcs  altcn 
Londons  damit  wicder  auf,  und  wcit- 
voller  als  die  (xcslall  dcs  Kin/chic!i  i>t 
die  Schilderunj^  dcs  Milieus,  die  sich  in 
feincn  Ziij^en  und  Ki)ntaiie>cher  Dctail- 
sicherheit  gibt.  —  Xii  Hcnu,in  (irimiiis 
sirbzii^stiit  Gihurisliii^  /eichnet  Williclm 
Holsche  ein  Lcbcn^bi'd,  das  auch 
(jrimms  produklivcr  Tiilij^keit  auf  dem 
Gebiet  der  Er/ahlung  liebevoll  gcrecht 
wird. —  Milh'ihmiicii  fthcr  Ancttc  von 
DiiiiskC'Hithhoft  gibt  Hermann  HiU'ier, 
in  dcnen  Icider  das  Unwiehtige  und 
Xebensiichlicbe  niit  dem  wenigcn  wirk- 
lich  Belangvollen  allzu  unkriiisch  zu- 
sanimen  gcworfen  i>t,  so  dass  hicb  der 
Eindruck  verHiichtigt. 

In  dcr  Xiitioii  schrcibt  Theodor 
Birth  iibcr  den  Einfiitrs  der  Pirssc  auf 
die  Politik.  Die  Presse  erweilerl  sich 
in  jedem  Jahre  ihren  Leserkreis  und 
ihr  Stoffgebiet — dcr  IMatz,  der  pohtisclicn 
Erorlerungen  eingcriiumt  wird,  ist  da- 
bei  ein  rclativ  kleincrer  gewordcn.  In 
alien  Liindern  beobachtet  man  die  Tat- 
sache,  dass  sich  einc  Gruppe  billigcr, 
sofjen.  unparteiischcr  Zeitungen  —  in 
Deutschland  nennt  man  sic  Cicneral- 
anzeiger  —  ausserordentlicli  entwickelt 
hat ;  das  PubUkum  sclicut  eingehcnde 
Eruiterungen  poHlischer  K.agen.  Der 
Sport  hat  die  Politik  vcrdrangt.  Die 
''Evening  News,"  die  heut  vt»n  alien 
half-penny-Blatlern  Londons  die  lukra- 
tivsten  sind,  machten  bei  Aut-bruch  dcs 
griechisch-tiirkischen  Kriegcs  die  dcnk- 
bar  grossten  Anstrengungen.  Sic  sand- 
ten  ein  halbes  Dutzend  Kriegscorre- 
spondenten  auf  den  Kriegsschauplalz. 
Dcr  Fall  von  Larissa  und  Domok<» 
wurdc  ihnen  friiher  telcgraphirt  al.s 
der  '*  Times "  und  dem  *•  Standard.' 
Das  Kesultat  war  Null.     Dem  Publikum 


waren    die     Kriegsnachi  ichtcn    gieich 
giltig.      Dagcgen    wurdeu     die     Nach- 
richten  iiber  den  australischen  Cricket- 
Match   in   London    verschlungen.     Dr. 
Barth  constatirt,dass  bei  uns  in  Deutsch- 
land die  Presse  aller  Parieien  hinter  der 
liberalen   Presse  an    ausserer  Verbrei- 
tung  und   innerer  Bedeutung   weit  zu- 
riick  bleibt,  —  und   dass    dcnnoch  der 
politi>chc  Einflussdes  Liberalismus  heut 
geringer    ist   als   seit   langcr  Zeit.  —  In 
einem  weiteren  Artikel,  Dentsehlaiid  iv 
Cliiiiii,      bringt      Theodor     Barth     der 
Erwerbung     von     Kiautschau     wanne 
Sympathie  entgegen.     Er  charakteri'iirt 
das    Mandarinentuin     und    spricht    die 
reberzcugung    aus,    dass    Deutschland 
auch  mit  geringeren  Flottenkriiften  als 
die  andcren  europiiischen  Grossmachte 
in  China  einc  achtungswerte   Position 
bchaupten  werde.     Bei  den  ungelieuren 
commerciellcn    Chancen,  die    das    chi- 
ncsische  Reich  bieftet,  liegt  seiner  An- 
sicht    nach    zu    einer    commerciellen 
E'fersucht     zwisclien      England      und 
Deutschland    kein    verniinftiger  Anlas> 
vor.    *'  Wenn  irgendwo    in    der  Wclt. 
so  ist  dort    Raum    fur    beide    grossen 
Volker."  —  Ueber   ititernationales  Rcchf 
schreibt   Bertha  von  Suttncr.     Sie  gibt 
eincn  kurzcn  geschichtlichen  Ucberblick 
iiber  die  Entwicklung  dcs  Friedensgc- 
dankens  und  sieht  in  der  interparlamen- 
tarischen    Union    den    entscheidenden 
Fortschritt    auf    diesem  Gebiete.     Die 
Forderung   einer   freiwilligen    intema- 
tionalen    Gerichtsbarkeit,   eines   freien 
Tribunals    im    Schosse     unabhangiger 
Staaten  begriisst  sie  roit  lebhafter  Sym- 
pathie.   Die  allgemeinen  Forlschrilte  in 
der  Stellung  zu  dieser  Fragc  charak- 
terisirt    sie    an    dem   Verhalten   Lord 
Salisbury's    und    Gladstones,  die  beidc 
der    Bewegung    anfanglich    ablehnend 
gegeniiber  standen,  beide    fur  sie   ge- 
wonnen     sind.      Sie    sieht    den    Tag 
kommen,  an   dein    es   auch    tm    inter- 
nationalen  Verkehr  heisscn  wird  "  Recht 
geht  vor  Gcwall."  —  Einc   U'eiuachts- 
und  Xetijahis  Plaudcrei   feinsinnigster 
und    intimer    Art    gibt    Ludwig    Bam- 
berger.      Er    schreibt    Uebcr  Frciind- 
i'ChiUt.     Das  ist  cin  altes   Thema,  and 
Bamberger  lasst  vieles  mit  anklingeiir 


LITTER  iRISCHliS   HL'LLETIX. 


6iS 


ifje  Dcnkcr  vor  ilnn  dai  iiber 
onders  fcin  bind  s?cinc  Aus- 
DCT  die  Frcundbcliallcn  von 
Frauen,  und  ironi>tli  liisst 
ine  Freunde,  es  gibt  kcine 
lit  eintonen.  Es  ist  nicht 
en  audi  ein  Sliick  Silien- 
las  sich  in  dieser  Plaudcrci 
In  einem  trcfflichcn  Essay 
t  Karl  Busse  den  vcrslor- 
:er  Johaitn  Gcoi(^  Fischer, 
n  Ziifjen  gibt  Felix  Poppen- 
erarische  Physiognomic  des 
nvi.  Bemerkenswert  sind 
jls  Aiisfiihrungen  iiber  Hati- 
tiid    Uamlehpoliiisihc     Vor- 

t'lisischc'ii  Jiihrbikhcni  ver- 
eiherr  von  Richtliofen  einen 
Kiantschafi,(\\c  von  Dcutsch- 
ete  Biicht  und  Land^trecke 
ich  inleressantcn  Benier- 
die  chinesische  Kiistc  iibcr- 
n  Bedeutiing  durch  Ver- 
ier arg  beeintrachti*rt  wird. 
jofen,  der  die  in  Betracht 
Landslrcckcn  seibNl  berei>t 
lin,  dass  Deutschland  unter 
len    Pliitzen   jedenfall>  die 

getroffen  liat  :  ''  Ein  eis- 
;eschiitzter  Hafen  mit  guter 
d  sichercm  Ankergrund.' 
ildet  den  natiirliehen  lircnn- 
r  Kiiste  fiir  den  Handels- 
nverkehr  des  ganzen  nord- 
lina.  Freilich  wird  die  da- 
Landstrecke  fur  deutsche 
ng  und  Ansiedlung  nicht  in 
ninen,  da  das  Land  dicht 
t,  und  deutsche  Arbeiter 
die  Konkurren/  niit  den 
men  Anwohnern  wcrden 
konnen.  Aber  die  Kosten 
ung  der  Hafenanlagen  und 
ichenden  Verteidigungszu- 
len  sich  aus  den  Einnahmen 

selbst  decken  ;  vor  allem 
iie  Kohlenproduktion  und 
:massige  Verwcrtung  hebcn 
;h  diirfle  Kiautschau  khma- 
mforderungen  enlsprechen. 
neint,  dass  es  in  dieser  Be- 
Deutsche  unzweifelhafl  die 
.age  an  der  ganzen  chincsi- 
[labe.  Eine  viel  gros>ereBe- 
•  alii  fiir  die  Gcgenwart  wird 


Kiautscliau  nach  Richthofens  Ansicht 
fiir  die  Zukunft  durch  den  Bau  von 
Eisenbalmen  erlangen,  zumal  dadurch 
bctriichlhche  Kohlenfelder  in  die  Xahe 
des  Hafens  geriickt  wiirden.  Richtliofen 
vertritt  die  Ansicht,  dass  Deutschland 
durch  die  Erwerbung  der  Bucht  von 
Kiautscliau  China  in  denkbar  wirk- 
samster  Weise  wird  niitzen  konnen.  — 
Professor  Dr.  Doriier  schreibt  iiber 
ih'Hcrc  Ansichten  ubcr  die  religiose  F rage. 
Er  fasst  seine  Ausfiihrungen  dahin  zu- 
sammen,  dass  sich  die  Religion  ohne 
die  Erkenntnis  iiber  ihr  Prinzip  niemals 
klar  werden  und  ohne  die  Erkenntnis 
der  inneren  Wahrheit  ihres  Prinzips 
bei  fortgeschriltenem  Erkenntnisprozess 
niemals  das  Selbstvertrauen  t)ewahren 
konnc.  Er  sieht  eine  vitale  Gefahr  darin, 
die  erkennlnismassige  rationale  Seite  der 
Religion  zu  vernachliissigen  oder  das 
Erkennen  in  bestimmte  dogmatische 
Formen  einzuzvviingen. 

Die  Xi'iic  Dctitsdw  Rundschau  bietet 
einen  gedankenreichen  Aufsatz  von  Lou 
Andreas  -  Salome  Aus  der  Geschichie 
(iotti's.  Frau  Salome  unterscheidet  in 
der  Entwicklungsgeschichte  der  Reli- 
gioncn  fiinf  psychoiogische  Haupletap- 
pen  :  die  urspriingliche  Glaubensschop- 
fung  aus  der  hochsten  Not  und  Sehn- 
sucht  des  Menschen  heraus  ;  die  ge- 
danklichen  Fixirungcn  im  Dogma  :  die 
I'nterordnung  vies  menschlichen  Willens 
unter  den  got!  lichen  bis  zur  Askcse  ;  die 
Reaktion  gegen  die  Askese  in  der  Myg- 
tik,  die  Reaktion  gegen  den  Mysticis- 
mus  in  verslandesmassigem  Rationalis- 
mus  ;  endlich  die  gedankliche  Fixirung 
des  Religionsinhaltes.  Intercssant  sind 
vor  aliem  ihre  Ausfiihrungen  iiber  die 
Orthodoxie,  in  der  sie,  wenigstens  in 
ihrem  urspriinglichen  Auftreten,  keine 
Verknocherung  und  keinen  Niedergang 
sieht,  sondern  ein  Festknupfen  der  reli- 
gioseii  Gefiihle  an  den  positiven  Glau- 
bensinhalt,  der  sie  erzeugt  hat.  Sie  ver- 
gleicht  sic  mit  einem  Harnisch,  mit 
dem  derGott  der  neuen  Lehre  geschutzt 
wird  vor  den  ersten  Zweifeln  —  die  mit 
einem  Gott  subject iv  willkurlicher  Auf- 
fassuDg  ein  leichles  Spiel  haben.  Ge- 
wagt  erscheint  nur,  dass  die  Verfasserin 
im  Mysticismus  eine  Reaktion  gegen  die 
Askese  sieht  —  hier  Gottgleichsetzung, 
dort   Golterhohung    bei    Selbsterniedri- 


6io 


COSMOPOLIS. 


j^iinu'.  Vicllcidit  <\\\d  sidi  A^kc^c  und 
My^lik  mchr  vcrwaiidl  als  cni|;cgen- 
gcsct/t.  In  bcidoii  bcwalnl  sich  das 
Her/  glciclmiashij^  als  oiii  Irol/iges  und 
veizaglcs  Ding,  und  Sclbslcrnicdi igmig 
und  Goltglcichlicit  loscn  sich  scltsam 
und  unmittelbar  ab.  —  Kinc  Skiz/c  von 
Peter  Nanscn  Aiis  licni  Liizairt  ist 
aus  deni  Iiihalt  dcr  Winii  Ihittschen 
RuntisihiJit  (Dezenilx:!)  ferncr  licrvor- 
zuheben.  —  Hochst  inleiessante  lihcfc 
voii  RkUiiiii  \\\i:^iur  an  Emil  Meckel 
gelangen  ini  Januarliett  zur  VemtYenl- 
lichung.  Meckel,  anfanglich  ein  Gegner 
Wagnerscher  Miisik,  hatle  sich  bald  zu 
eineni  enthusiasiisciien  Verchrer  des 
Meislers  bekehrl  ;  er  gi  iindele  in  Man- 
heini  einen  Wagneiverein  und  nalun  an 
der  Einrichtung  der  Hayieuther  Kcst- 
spiele  tiiligen  Anleii.  Aus  eineni  ge- 
schaftlichen  Brief \vech«*el  erg.dxrn  sich 
mit  der  Zcit  Milteilungen   iniiuier  Art. 

Hezeichnend  ist  ein  kleiner  Vorgang, 
der  erzUhlt  wird.  Hei  einer  Probe  rief 
Xieniann  zu  Wagner  hinunter  :  *'  Meister, 
wenn  Sic  niir  hier  kcinen  Takt  schla- 
gen,  kann  ich  nicht  singen."  Darauf 
WaiLrner:  "Meine  Merren,  das  miissen 
Sie  jclzt  auswendig  kiinnen.  Sehen  Sie 
mich  an.  Es  gibt  kein  Taklschlagen. 
Ich  zeichne  es  linien  in  die  Luft  Uas 
muss  sprcchen  wie  ein  Kecilativ." 

In  der  Zukmitt  verolYenllicht  Adolf 
Wagner  in  Minsichl  auf  die  Marinevor- 
lagc  einc  Studie  iiber  die  biihiiizni  tiiui 
Sti'iu'n'crhi'iliiiissc  lies  Ihiitscluit  Rcichcs. 
Er  meint,  dass  wenn  es  notig  ware, 
Dcutschland  ganz  andere  Mittel  auf- 
brin^'en  konnte  als  es  gegenwiirtig  tut, 
sobald  seine  Finanz-  und  Sleuerquellen 
iiach  dem  Muster  aller  anderen  grossen 
Volker  in  Anspruch  genommen  wurden. 
Bei  eineni  Vergleich  Deutschlands  und 
Krankreichs  fiillt  die  gcringe  Geburts- 
ziffer  fur  Frankreich  giinstig  ins  Ge- 
wicht,  was   aber   dad  inch  ausgeglkhen 


wird,  dass  Deutschlaud  uber  eine  vicl 
grossere  absolute  Zahl  Erwachsener  vci- 
fiigi  —  wenn  audi  die  Sorge  fiir  die 
grusse  Kindcrquote  die  wirtschafilichc 
Lcislungsfiihigkeit  herabdriickt.  Jedcn- 
falls  i-^t  nach  Wagner  die  Finan/Liv;c 
Deutschlands  unvergleichlich  giinstigcr 
als  die  Frankreichs,  was  er  zahlenma>>i}i 
darlegt.  Wagners  Ausf iihruugen  giplcln 
darin,  dass  Deutschland  viel  wenijcr 
dri'ickendc  Ausgabcn  und  Steuern  liut 
als  >eine  politischen  und  wirtschafili- 
chen  Konkurrenten  und  dass  cs  finan/icll 
leichter  als  irgcnd  ein  anderes  Volk  die 
elvva  n«iligen  weitereii  Lasten  fiir  nui- 
wcndige  Keichsaufgaben  aufbringeii 
kann.  —  Die  Londoner  Unii't'rsitJl  w'nd 
von  Alexander  Filbe  zuni  Gegenst.uui 
eincr  eingehendcn  Studie  gemacht. 
Xach  einer  Darstellung  ihrer  Grunduiij^ 
und  geschichtlichen  Entwicklung  zcich- 
net  Filbe  ihre  unterscheidendcn  Eigeii- 
arten  gegen  Oxford  mid  Cambridge 
und  weist  vor  allcm  aut  die  Errungen- 
schaften  fiir  das  Frauenstudium  hin,  die 
von  der  Londoner  Universilal  ausge.iran- 
gen  sind. 

In   der    Fran  verwahrt   sich    Helcnc 
Lange  ge;:en  die  Art  und  Wei.se,  wic  in 
deni  heutigen   Deutschland  die  Siiuiis- 
cwalt  Hire  Anf^abc  dcti  Frattcn  /jQ»tw- 
libir  auffasst.    Es  besteht  in  Wahrhcit 
ein  Schutz  der  Manner  vor  uiisittlichcii 
Frauen  :  die  Frauen  abcr  sind  bei  deni 
Zustand  der  grossstadtischcn  Polizei  un- 
sittlichen  Mannem  gegeniiber  schutzlox 
Den  einzigen  Weg,  seiche  Schaden  von 
Grund    aus    zu  bessern,    sieht    Helenc 
I^mge  in  der  Einstellung  von  Frauen 
in  die  Sta;its-  und  Gemeindeverwaltung. 
—  Die  Berliner  Bdcklin-Ausstclluug  wird 
von    Felix  Poppenberg  in  ihrcn  Stiin- 
mungen  feinsinnig  charakterisirt :  Po{>- 
pent)erg  lindet  die  Bocklinsche  EnipHu- 
dun;;swclt  vielfach  in  Goetheschcn  Ge- 
d  ich  ten  wieder. 


K 


Herausgcber :  F.  Oktmaxs. 


Lct^crant:  F.  Oktmans. 


THE   MONEY   MARKETS. 


The  new  financial  year  has  not  opened  under  favourable  auspices, 
and  the  much-talked-of  revival  in  business  seems  to  have  been 
indefinitely  postponed.  In  France,  particularly,  the  excitement 
caused  by  the  Dreyfus  affair  discourages  all  initiative  on  the  part 
of  business  men  and  speculators,  and  the  influence  of  this  almost 
political  agitation  has  reached  England  and  Germany,  adding  to 
the  general  timidity  of  the  markets.  There  is  no  hopeful  sign  to 
be  discerned  anj-where,  look  which  way  we  will. 

LONDON. — The  upward  turn  of  affairs  which  marked  the 
beginning  of  the  month  shows  signs  of  retrogression,  and  the 
general  tendency  of  the  market  is  fluctuating,  while  Consols  have 
gone  down  slightly.  Business  is  so  slack  that  a  few  orders,  one 
way  or  the  other,  are  enough  to  cause  prices  to  rise  and  fall.  The 
announcement  of  the  Great  Eastern's  dividends  have  appreciably 
affected  Railways  in  general.  Some  time  will  have  to  pass  before 
purchases  are  steady  enough  to  restore  the  old  prices  in  this 
department.  As  to  American  Railways,  the  situation  is  still  more 
unfavourable.  Holders  are  selling  out  rapidly,  and  in  spite  of  the 
efforts  made  by  New  York  as  a  buyer,  prices  cannot  be  maintained. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  Canadian  Pacific  and  the  Grand  Trunk  arc 
lirm.  Mexican  Railways  have  slightly  improved.  The  Transvaal 
Railway  is  remarkably  firm.  Mines  are  dull,  and  it  is  doul>tfnl 
whether  certain  interested  endeavours  to  restore  their  activity  will 
succeed.  The  old  process  of  booming  seems  to  have  lost  its  power. 
The  Dreyfus  agitation  has  put  the  questions  of  Eg>*pt  and  the  Far 
East  into  the  background,  but  when  the  excitement  has  died  out 
they  will  certainly  come  to  the  front  again.  It  is  hardly  necessary 
to  point  out  their  depressing  inlluence  on  the  Stock  Exchanges. 

PARIS. — ^The  Mid-January  Settlement  took  place  under  normal 
conditions.  Money  was  plentiful  and  cheap,  but  was  little  used 
for  speculative  or  industrial  puiposes.  French  Rentes  are  practi- 
cally stationary  ;  also  French  Railways,  although  the  receipts  for 
the  iirst  week  of  the  year  of  the  great  companies  showed  an 
increase  of  452,000  francs  on  the  receipts  for  the  corresponding 
week  in  1897.  The  difliculties  the  Italian  Government  has  to  deal 
with  in  balancing  its  Budget  are  not  of  a  nature  to  encourage  holders 
of  Italian  Government  stock.  The  report  of  a  Spanish  Loan  to  be 
issued  under  normal  conditions  has  been  denied.  It  is  difficult  to 
s;iy  whether  this  is  a  good  or  a  bad  sign.  Greek  financial  adjust- 
ments are  said  to  be  on  the  way  to  accomplishment. 

BERLIN. — From  industrial  movements  only  can  one  derive  any 
idea  of  the  general  tendency  of  the  German  market.  The  Mining 
company  Gchcnkirchcncr  Ber^wci'ks}icsc1hhafi  showed  such  a  good 
report  for  1897  that  their  shares  in  similar  investments  are  now 
sought  for.  But  it  is  only  on  these  lines  that  any  signs  of  improve- 
ment can  be  found.  Banking  affairs  are  more  or  less  weak.  Swiss 
Railways  have  fallen  again  considerably. 


CHRONIOUE    DE    LA    MODE. 


Paris,  24  janvicr  1898. 
Malgrk  les  vidcs  que  causent  dans  la  haute  soci6t6  las  d6parts, 
chaque  annie  plus  nombreux,  vers  la  Cote  d'A/.ur,  la  saison 
bat  son  plein  a  Paris. 

Ce  nc  sont  que  diners,  bals  ct  receptions ;  bientot  mcnie 
vont  commencer  les  soir6es  travesties  pour  lesquelles  Timagi- 
nation  feminine  doit  fairc  souvent  de  pdnibles  efforts  afin  de 
sortir  du  banal  ou  du  convenu. 

Depuis  ma  dernifere  causerie,  la  mode,  malgr6  son  caractere 
essentiellement  mobile  —  e  mobile  femina  —  n'a  gufere  change. 
J'ai  pu  m'en  assurer  chez  Paquin,  ou  la  diff6rence  dans  les 
toilettes  consiste  dans  d'imperceptibles  nuances  qui  en  font 
d'ailleurs  tout  le  cachet.  Chacune  d'elles  porte,  pour  ainsi  dire, 
la  signature  du  maitre. 

J'ai  vu  —  bien  que  la  temperature  soit  fort  douce  —  beau- 
coup  de  jaquettes  en  velours  noir  avec  application  de  grosse 
ganse  en  satin  noir,  collet  et  revers  en  zibeline  ou  en  chinchilla. 

J'ai  une  pr6f6rence  marqu6e,  je  I'avoue,  pour  les  jaquettes 
—  6galement  trds  en  vogue  -  tout  en  fourrure,  retenues  a  la 
taille  par  une  haute  ceinture  de  satin  noir  piqu6. 

Ce  vfitement  a  le  pr6cieux  avantage  de  d6gager  les  hanches 
et  de  laisser  intacte  la  silhouette  d'une  616gance  si  raffin6e, 
dessin^e  par  la  robe  plaquant  vers  la  taille  et  s'6vasant  aux 
pieds. 

J'ai  constat6  6galement,  dans  ces  salons  de  la  rue  de  la  Paix, 
ou  je  trouve  tant  de  choses  exquises  a  glaner,  que  pour  les 
toilettes  de  jour  la  note  sombre  dominait  et  que  pour  le  soir 
la  "panne"  (velours  trds  souple)  dans  les  tons  roses  6tait  plus 
particulidrement  choisie  par  les  616gantes  mondaines. 

J'ai  voulu  savoir  ce  qu'on  portait  cet  hiver  sur  les  "  Rives 
d'or  "  et  j'ai  appris  que  les  robes  de  sortie,  toujour^  tr^  ajus- 


CHRONIQUE  DE  LA  MODE.  3 

ties  et  latssant  beaiicoup  d'ampleur  sur  les  pieds,  itaient,  en 
grande  majority,  faites  en  drap  gris  presque  blanc.  Pour  les 
receptions  du  soir,  on  porte  surtoiit  des  toilettes  blanches 
brodies  d'argent. 

J'avais  promis  aux  aimables  lectrices  de  CosMOPOLiS  une 
6tude  sur  le  chapeau,  et  voila  que  la  place  dont  je  dispose  est 
remplie !  Je  r6parerai  mon  6tourderie  le  mois  prochain,  per- 
suade, d'ailleurs,  que  je  suis  pardonnde  d'avance. 

Nombre  de  dames  se  figurent  que  les  Sachets  du  Dr  Dys 
sent  un  fard.  Loin  de  la  1  Ces  Sachets,  compost  de  graines 
concassdes,  de  fleurs  brisies,  s'expritnent  dans  I'eau  des  ablu- 
tions et  ripandcnt  un  lait  balsamique  et  rafraichissant  dont 
refficacittS  sur  I'^piderme  est  incontestable. 

Leur  emploi  est  le  sur  moyen  d'fiviter  I'alt^ration  et  la  fatigue 
des  traits  du  visage  et  de  conserver  a  la  peau  le  velout6  et  la 
fraicheur  de  la  jeiuiesse. 

C'est  ce  qu'atteste  la  correspondance  que  refoit  chaque  jour, 
31,  rue  d'Anjou,  M.  Darsy,  seul  priparateur  des  produits  du 
Dr  Dys. 

]e  ne  saurais  trop  recommander  aux  lectrices  de  Cosmopolis 
I'usage  de  la  Poudre  de  riz  Rijane,  incomparable  par  sa  finesse 
et  son  parfum  dilicieux.  La  boite  elle-m€me  est  une  merveille 
de  gout,  et  toutes  tiendront  a  avoir  sur  leur  table  de  toilette  le 
portrait  de  la  tris  charmante  marraine.  Envoyer  un  mot  an 
Depot  de  la  Poudre  de  riz  Riijare,  26,  rue  Cadet. 

Baronne  Charley. 


LE    MEILLEUR  ALIMENT   DES   ENFANTS. 

■iir  la  publicitii  finaiiciere,  el  l;i  publicili'  fomn 
P'nincc,  s'adi-cst<(;r  i  TArgus  de  la  Presse, 
(JO*  ann^  d'eJiistonceJ. 


}^ 


ELIXIR  et  CONFITURE 

St=VlNCENT.de-PAUL. 


GUERISON  de  I'ANEMIE  en 

VINGT   JDURS. 


L' Elixir  et  la  Confiture  St-Vincent= 

de=Paul  en  usage  depuis  plus  de  vingt  ans 
dans  les  hdpitaux,  dispensaires,  orphelinats  des 
Filles  de  la  Charity,  Soeurs  de  St-Vincent-de-Paul, 
ont  procure  les  plus  merveilleuses  guerisons 
de  TAnemie. 

Par  autorisation  sp^ciale  de  la  M^re  G6n6rale 
Sup6rieure  de  TOrdre,  Texploitation  de  1  Ellxir 

et  de  la  Conf iture  St = Vincent=  de  =  Paul 

ayant  ete  livree  k  la  Pharmacie  par  les  Filles  de 
la  Charite,  tous  les  anemiques  sont  desormais 
certains  de  guerir  en  vingt  jours,  quel  que  soit 
le  degre  de  TAnemie  au  debut  du  traitement. 

DEPOT  GENERAL:     Pharmacie    Centrale    des    Qrands 
Boulevards,  178  rue  Montmartre,  Paris. 


EN  VENTE  DANS  TOUTES  LES  PHARMACIES. 

SE  mBfier  des  imitations. 


6osmopolis 

An  International  Review. 


N"u.  XXVII.— Makcii,   189S. 


OUT  OF  THE  CAGE." 


LrcY  DriA-KKS  was  under  lock  and  key,  in  a  hi^jprison,  in  a 
h\^  South  London  suburb.  She  was  a  •*  special  service 
woman,"  which  is  one  of  the  rarest  of  birds — gaol  birds — in 
the  shadowy  world  of  which  we  treat.  She  had  served  over 
three  years  of  her  time  in  gaol,  and  was  within  a  few  months 
of  freedom.  During  those  three  years  or  so  of  prison  service 
not  one  report  had  issued  from  matrons  or  assistant-matrons 
against  Lucy's  general  deportment.  She  had  gone  through 
the  mill  uncomplainingly  ;  she  had  been  obedient  and  brisk 
and  cheerful — the  three  days'  penal,  the  bad  marks,  the  bread 
and  water,  the  refractory  cell,  were  none  of  them  for  Lucy 
Dulvers.  She  wiis  one  of  the  curiosities  of  gaol  discipline — **a 
show  prisoner" — a  woman  who  had  never  given  a  saucy 
answer  to  her  officers,  or  been  tempted  to  a  grand  smash  of 
the  windows,  or  to  run  amuck  with  her  '*  pint "  or  her  broom 
till  carried  off,  kicking  and  screaming,  to  the  padded  cell.  She 
had  not  given  any  trouble,  and  she  stood  consequently  a  head 
and  shoulders  higher  in  the  "good  books"  of  the  matron 
than  in  those  of  her  sisters  in  misfortune,  who  were  ever 
lacking  in  self-command,  and  glad  of  any  "row"  to  keep  the 
game  alive. 

Consequently  in  the  last  few  months  of  her  time — the  last 
year,  as  it  might  be  termed,  though  she  had  not  a  full  year  to 
serve — Lucy  Dulvers  was  constituted  a  '*  special  service 
woman  "  by  recommendation  of  the  lady  superintendent,  con- 

*  Copyright,  in  the  United  States  oi  America,  1898,  by  K.  W.  Uobinson. 

VOL.  IX. — VO.  XXVII.  1 


6l2  COSMOPOLIS. 

tinned  by  the  order  of  a  somewhat  fussy  Prison  Board  located 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  Parliament-street,  S.W. 

'*  The  sneak's  worked  it  off  to  rights,  she  has,"  said  Bull, 
malevolently — Bull  was  a  fellow  prisoner  famous  for  insub- 
ordination— **  ril  tear  her  blessed  liver  out  when  1  get  the 
chance,  mind  yer  ! " 

Which  chance  never  came  to  Sarah  Ann  Bull,  who  wiis  sent 
back  to  Millbank — then  in  the  full  swing  of  its  awful  business 
— a  few  weeks  afterwards,  for  running  at  a  fellow  laundry 
woman  with  a  flat-iron,  and  damaging  materially  the  nose  of 
her  victim. 

A  special  service  woman  !  One  of  the  very  few  to  gain  that 
great  distinction,  a  prize  only  to  be  obtained  by  the  grossest 
favouritism,  and  "  rounding "  on  pals,  and  currying  favour 
with  the  *'  slops,"  her  fellow  prisoners  asserted  in  association 
hours  when  gossip  was  allow^ed  at  the  cell  doors  to  all  good 
conduct  prisoners.  Special  service — oh,  great  heaven,  to  think 
of  it !  To  act  as  special  messenger,  to  traverse  the  full  length 
of  the  wards  and  infirmary  and  airing  grounds  ;  to  i*un  on 
errands  all  over  the  great  prison,  even  as  far  as  the  court- 
yard and  the  outer  gates,  and  the  office  of  trusty  Mr.  Libby, 
gate-keeper,  a  fat  and  genial  Cerberus,  whom  everybody  liked. 
Lucy  had  a  secret  delight  in  walking  as  far  as  these  gates, 
when  sent  with  a  message  to  someone  in  the  vicinity,  and  in 
touching  them  with  her-  hand — it  was  an  intense  gratification 
to  be  so  close  to  the  life  outside,  to  hear  the  noises  in  the  lane, 
to  see  the  great  gates  open  and  the  horses  and  carts  come  in, 
and  the  drivers  regard  her  wonderingly. 

Lucy  wore  the  special  service  dress,  of  course — a  neat  cotton 
print  that  distinguished  her  from  the  greens  and  browns  of 
Xos.  1  and  2  women  —  which  only  she  at  that  time  was 
allowed  to  wear,  there  being  no  other  prisoner  with  half  so 
fair  a  record  as  herself. 

She  had  worked  hard  for  the  distinction  and  this  was  her 
reward.  She  had  resisted  all  impulses  to  break  out — every 
female  prisoner  has  them —for  she  had  something  to  live  for 
and  to  look  forward  to.  There  was  home — ^there  was  Jim — 
and  there  was  little  Bessie — and  they  were  all  waiting  for  her 
in  Fraser-street,  Oakley-street,  Lambeth,  when  the  time  came 


OtJT  OF  THE   CAGE.  613 

for  the  gratuity  money  and  the  door  in  those  great  gates  to 
open  and  let  her  out. 

She  grew  more  excited  as  the  time  came  closer  for  freedom  ; 
there  was  a  temptation  in  being  within  a  few  months  of 
liberty,  a  great  longing,  a  terrible  fear  at  times  even  that  she 
should  break  out  at  the  last,  in  sheer  wantonness  of  high 
spirits,  and  wreck  everything  at  the  eleventh  hour,  as  so  many 
fools  had  done  before  her  day. 

"  Give  me  something  more  to  do,  please  ;  something  hard, 
precious  hard,  or  just  keep  me  in  my  cell  for  a  bit,  Mrs. 
Mossop,  will  yer,  for  I'm  afraid  ?" 

'*  Afraid  of  what  ?"  asked  the  matron. 

''  It's  coming  so  near,"  she  added,  with  a  shudder,  "  and, 
oh  !  if  I  was  to  break  out  now  and  make  a  mess  of  it,  or 
quarrel  with  the  women  who  are  always  making  faces  at  me." 

''  That's  not  likely." 

"  It  is  very  likely.  Turn  the  key  on  me,  please,  miss  ;  it's 
so  much  the  better." 

So  Lucy  Dulvers  would  have  a  "day  on  the  quiet,"  with 
plenty  of  work  to  occupy  her  mind. 

And  yet,  despite  of  all  her  precautions,  her  good  luck 
deserted  her  at  last. 

It  was  in  the  winter  time,  and  the  bad  luck  began  with  the 
bad  weather.  The  frost  had  set  in,  and  the  snow  lay  thick 
in  the  airing-yard,  and  there  had  been  a  great  deal  of  extra 
work  in  consequence.  Lucy  Dulvers  had  a  weakness  for  the 
courtyard,  where  the  horses  and  carts,  the  prison  omnibuses 
and  wagons  came  in  and  out  at  all  hours  of  the  day,  and  was 
glad  of  any  excuse  that  took  her  to  the  gate-keeper's  domain, 
where  was  Mr.  Libby's  house  to  the  right  of  the  entrance  gates 
— the  house  where  the  keys  were  kept  and  where  the  visitors 
to  the  prison  were  critically  scanned,  the  tradesmen  inter- 
viewed and  the  letters  taken  in  from  the  postman,  where  the 
matrons  lucky  enough  to  be  "off  duty"  gave  a  cheery  good- 
day  to  Mr.  Libby  on  his  top  step  as  they  tripped  oflf  for  a  few 
hours'  grace,  Mr.  Libby  locking  up  very  carefully  after  them. 

Lucy  Dulvers  felt  a  wondrous  fascination  then  for  the  big 
gates  over  which  Mr.  Libby  held  watch  and  ward.  Presently 
those  gates  would  open  for  her,  and   Mr.    Libby  would  say 


6x4  COSMOPOLIS. 

"Good  day"  to  her;  and  she  should  be  almost  sorry  to  see 
the  last  of  his  round,  red,  jovial  face,  for  he  had  always  a 
kind  glance  for  her,  being  an  amiable  kind  of  gate-keeper,  and 
regarding  Lucy  as  a  marvellous  specimen  of  prison  culture 
to  be  allowed  the  run  of  the  whole  premises  on  account  of 
the  extra  good  behaviour  for  which  she  had  been  particu- 
larly distinguished.  Lucy  would  sidle  up  and  touch  the  gate> 
with  her  hand,  very  often  smiling  at  Mr.  Libby  meanwhile  ; 
and  if  the  gate-keeper  were  in  a  very  good  temper — which  was 
not  unfrequent — he  would  say  : — 

**  Ah,  time's  getting  on — it  won't  be  long  before  it's  your 
turn  to  say  good-bye  to  us  all,  will  it  ?  " 

"  Thank  the  Lord,  no,"  and  then  Lucy  and  Libby  would 
say  no  more — both  having  exceeded  the  rules  by  exchanging 
a  word  with  each  other  at  all.  But  Lucy  was  privileged  all 
round,  and  Mr.  Libby  would  be  quite  sure  there  were  no 
watchful  matrons,  or  a  lady  superintendent  within  telescopic 
distance  of  them. 

One  particular  day — a  day  to  be  ever  full  of  bitter  memories 
to  Lucy — the  gates  were  being  unfastened  by  the  good- 
tempered  warder.  Lucy  had  been  sent  with  a  mess^ige  from 
the  chief  matron  to  the  gate-keeper,  and,  having  delivered  it 
and  watched  the  expression  of  Mr.  Libby  as  he  read  the 
memorandum,  she  inquired  if  there  were  any  answer  to  be 
taken  back  to  Mrs.  Martin. 

"No.  It's  all  right,"  the  gate-keeper  said,  as  he  turned  to 
his  occupation  again,  "  stand  a  little  further  back.  Here's  the 
director's  carriage  coming  down  the  lane." 

"  I  don't  think  it's  visiting  day,"  said  Lucy  sotto  voce, 

"No  more  it  is.     This  is  a  special  visit,  Mrs.  Knowall." 

"  Is  there  anything  up,  then  ?" 

"  Nothing  that  concerns  you  and  me,"  he  said  curtly.  He 
swung  back  the  big  gates,  assisted  by  a  second  warder  on  duty 
for  the  special  purpose,  and  there  lay  stretched  outside  a  strip 
of  roadway,  a  huge  bank  of  snow  and  a  high  brick  wall,  over 
which  were  some  big  trees  with  their  snow-laden  branches 
swaying  to  and  fro  in  the  keen  breeze  astir  that  day. 

"Oh  !"  cried  Lucy,  in  a  burst  of  admiration,  "isn't  thai 
line  ?  " 


OTTT  OF  THE  CAGE.  6x5 

"Get  further  back,  girl  ;  get  out  of  the  way  altogether," 
answered  Mr.  Libby,  in  a  sepulchral  undertone,  and  Lucy 
backed  towards  the  prison  and  away  from  the  free  air  and  light 
beyond  it.  When  she  was  standing  close  to  the  walls  there 
came  a  great  clattering  and  prancing  and  rattling  as  the 
carriage  of  the  chairman  of  directors — mightiest  of  the 
mighty  in  this  complicated  prison-world,  and  yet  a  very 
ordinary  red-nosed  individual,  Lucy  thought,  as  she  glanced 
at  him  as  he  sat  in  a  corner  of  his  carriage  looking 
diligently  over  a  handful  of  papers  he  was  holding — was 
swirled  into  the  courtyard.  The  entrance  was  imposing, 
but  the  contretemps  which  followed  was  startling  and  un- 
foreseen. The  courtyard  had  been  carefully  swept  that 
morning,  but  there  were  several  patches  of  frozen  water  dotting 
the  open  space,  and  one  of  the  horses  slipped  thereon, 
recovered  itself,  slipped  again,  reared  upon  its  hind  legs,  and 
finally  came  down  with  a  thud  upon  its  side,  and  commenced 
kicking  and  plunging,  and  doing  its  best  to  drag  the  second 
horse  to  its  own  level.  Mr.  Libby  and  his  assistant  had  not 
quite  closed  the  gates,  and,  taken  off  their  guard  by  so 
untoward  an  accident,  they  ran  to  the  assistance  of  the  coach- 
man, who  had  already  jumped  from  his  box.  The  Chairman 
of  the  Prison  Board  opened  the  carriage  door,  and,  with  his 
hair  on  end,  sprang  out  with  the  agility  of  a  harlequin, 
scattering  his  papers  right  and  left  in  his  dismay,  and,  it  must 
be  confessed,  indulging  in  considerable  strength  and  volubility 
of  language  in  his  very  great  astonishment  at  the  accident 
which  had  thus  suddenly  befallen  him  and  his  equipage.  And 
then,  to  add  still  further  to  the  confusion,  the  director's  feet 
flew  from  under  him,  and  the  Prison  Board  Chairman  landed 
on  his  hands  and  knees  within  a  very  short  distance  of  his 
kicking  horse. 

Lucy  Dulvers  was  utterly  forgotten  in  the  turmoil,  and 
Lucy,  running  round  swiftly  to  get  out  of  the  way,  found 
herself  at  the  entrance  gates  again. 

It  was  a  mad  impulse,  hardly  to  be  accounted  for  in  a 
woman  endowed  with  so  much  power  of  self-repression  ;  but 
it  was  an  impulse  that  carried  Lucy  into  the  roadway  beyond, 
nervous,  curious,  trembling,  afraid,  and  yet  sorely  tempted  to 


6l6  COSMOPOLIS. 

be — just  for  an  odd  moment  or  two — a  free  woman,  and  take  a 
good  long  look  at  the  outside  world  before  Mr.  Libby,  stern 
and  wrathful,  called  her  to  a  sense  of  decorum.  But  Mr. 
Libby  did  not  call  to  her — no  one  had  noticed  her — everyone, 
in  fact,  had  forgotten  her  existence  in  the  confusion  which  had 
been  created  by  the  catastrophe. 

There  was  Lucy  Dulvers  outside,  in  the  prison  lane,  at  the 
end  of  which  was  the  high  road,  where  were  the  omnibuses, 
and  the  carts,  and  the  carriages  rattling  by  ;  she  was  a  liberty 
woman  in  real  earnest  at  last !  Being  winter  time,  Lucy  had 
her  bonnet  on  and  her  check  shawl  over  her  cotton  print 
dress,  and  was  quite  prepared  for  a  journey,  but  she  only 
stood  beyond  the  ken  of  the  officials,  transfixed,  as  it 
were,  into  stone.  If  anybody  called  to  her  she  would  go 
back,  of  course  ;  but  it  was,  oh  1  so  funny,  to  be  standing 
outside  the  prison  walls  with  no  one  imagining  that  there 
was  a  female  prisoner  the  less  to  account  for.  She  felt  that  she 
would  have  to  scream  with  laughter  presently,  when  she  saw 
the  horrified  faces  of  the  warders,  who  wouldn't  sav  anv- 
thing,  and  who  wouldn't  "split"  upon  her,  because  they  were 
more  to  blame  than  she,  and  would  get  into  more  trouble. 
She  took  another  deep  draught  of  free,  fresh  air,  and  that  was 
a  further  intoxicant,  and  too  much  for  her  altogether  ;  odd 
that  she  could  only  think  now  of  the  home  in  Fraser-street, 
Lambeth,  and  Jim  and  Bessie  there — all  to  be  seen  in  the 
course  of  the  next  hour,  instead  of  waiting  months  and  months 
for  them,  if  she  were  only  quick. 

And  so  here  goes  !     And  Lucy  Dulvers  was  gone. 

She  heard  the  gates  clanged  to  and  locked  by  the  wardei^ 
before  she  had  got  far  down  the  lane.  She  had  been  utterly 
forgotten  in  the  confusion,  and  Lucy  took  her  way  into  the 
highroad  without  meeting  anyone  whom  she  knew.  There 
was  an  omnibus  passing  on  its  way  to  Westminster  and 
Charing  Cross  ;  she  had  no  money,  but  she  hailed  it  and  got 
in,  and  was  carried,  in  due  course,  to  the  corner  of  Oakley- 
street,  Lambeth.  Here  a  little  fuss  occurred,  as  she  professed 
to  have  lost  her  purse ;  but  her  looks  and  her  general  deport- 
ment were  in  her  favour,  and  the  conductor,  in  full  confidence, 
took  her  address,  which  she  gave  him  in  good  faith  and  with 


OTTT  OF  THE  CAGE.  6x7 

an  assurance  that  his  nioney  would  be  all  right.  Then  slie 
went  down  Oakley-street  and  turned  into  Fraser-street  with 
her  knees  knocking  together  and  a  heart  that  thumped  heavily 
i  nside  her.  At  present  she  had  not  realised  the  enormity  of 
her  offence  ;  the  cancelling  of  all  her  privileges  if  she  were 
re-arrested,  the  extension  of  her  term  of  prison  service,  the 
drag  back  to  all  the  old  horrors  from  which  she  had  worked 
her  way.  She  was  free — that  was  all  she  could  think  of  just 
now.  She  was  in  the  streets — the  happy  open  streets,  and  in 
another  minute  or  two  she  would  be  in  her  own  home.  She 
should  see  Jim,  and  meet  his  astonished,  joyous  looks  at  the 
sight  of  her — she  should  have  little  Bessie  in  her  arms — how 
she  would  have  grown  in  those  long-drawn-out  three  years  1 
— and,  oh,  what  a  trouble  to  make  her  understand  that  it  was 
the  real  mother  who  had  come  back  to  her. 

And  here  was  the  old  one-storey  house  at  last,  looking  rathei 
dingier  than  when  she  had  seen  it  some  three  years  and  odd 
months  ago,  just  before  she  was  "  lagged."  She  knocked  almost 
timidly  at  the  door,  wondering  if  little  Bessie  would  open  it 
for  her,  and  praying — yes,  praying  to  God  ! — that  she  would. 

The  door  was  opened,  but  not  by  little  Bessie.  For  an 
instant  she  thought  that  she  had  come  to  the  wrong  house, 
when  a  young,  beetle-browed,  handsome  woman  stood  in  the 
doorway  with  a  little  sturdy  boy  of  eighteen  months  clinging 
to  her  skirts. 

**  What  is  this  ?  "  said  the  young  woman,  brusquely. 

*^  Mr. — Dulvers — is  he  indoors  ?  "  Lucy  asked  ;  and  the 
sudden  hoarseness  of  her  utterance,  her  difficulty  in  getting 
her  words  out,  came  to  her  with  a  faint  shock  of  surprise. 

"  Ye — es,"  was  the  hesitating  answer,  •'  but  he's  bad — orful 
bad — upstairs.     Is  there  any  message ?  " 

*'  Jim  ill !  my  Jim  ill,"  exclaimed  Lucy,  pushing  past  the 
woman  suddenly  and  striding  into  the  front  parlour.  It  was 
the  old  room,  not  so  tidy  and  well  kept  as  it  had  been  in  her 
time,  but  it  looked  so  like  home  again  !  Only  it  wasn't,  was 
her  secret  thought. 

Lucy  sat  down  by  the  fireplace  and  breathed  hard  for  a  time 
and  the  woman,  having  shut  the  street  door,  came  in,  the  child 
toddling  after  her. 


rn8  COSMOPOLIS. 

*^  Do  you  know  wlio  1  am  ?  "  cisked  Lucy,  as  she  entered. 

*'  I  can  guess.     You're  Jim's  wife." 

'*  That's  right.  His  lawful  wife,  mind  you.  And  who  tlie 
devil  are  you  ?     And  what  are  you  doing  in  my  house  ?  ' 

Lucy  raised  her  voice  peremptorily,  but  the  woman  did  not 
flinch.  She  was  a  younger,  stronger  woman  than  Lucy 
altogether,  and  was  not  afraid  of  her  unwelcome  visitor.  She 
was  very  much  surprised,  but  not  in  any  great  degree  abashed. 

'*  I'm  Lizzie  Carnithers,  Jim's  housekeeper,"  she  answered, 
"  I've  been  keeping  'ouse  for  Jim  for  the  last  two  years." 

"  Oh,  have  you  ?  Very  kind  of  you,  I'm  sure.  And  Jim, 
has  he  been  a  keeping  of  you  ?  You  needn't  answer.  1  see 
the  game — oh,  yes.     And  that's  your  brat — yours  and  his  ?  " 

"  Well,  it's  not  much  use  denying  it,  is  it  ?  I  don't  care — 
and  I  don't  know  as  how  Jim  does.  Didn't  he  tell  you  when 
he  came  to  see  you  in  quod,  last  visitin'  day  ?" 

"Told  me!" 

"  He  said  he  would.  But  Jim  always  was  a  liar — wasn't 
he?" 

Lucy  did  not  reply.  She  was  considering  the  position, 
trying  to  realise  it.  For  the  time  she  was  completely  dazed — 
it  was  beyond  her  ken.  If  she  were  to  wake  up  suddenly  in 
her  cell  and  find  that  she  had  dreamt  it  all  it  would  be  a  bit 
more  natural  than  this. 

Lucy  had  been  a  very  violent  woman  in  her  time,  and  had 
suffered  for  it  by  penal  servitude,  where  all  the  passion  of  her 
nature  had  burnt  itself  out  somehow,  and  did  not  seem  to 
possess  the  power  to  flare  up  again.  She  had  conquered  all 
her  old  mad  impulses  in  the  eager,  earnest  desire  to  become  a 
model  prisoner,  so  that  she  should  get  back  to  Jim  and  Bessie 
the  sooner,  and  with  a  character  that  would  surprise  even  him ; 
and  this  was  the  accursed  end  of  it.  What  she  might  have 
expected,  if  she'd  only  thought  a  bit. 

She  glanced  askance  at  the  woman  who  had  supplanted  her. 
She  was  half  inclined  to  snatch  the  poker  from  the  fireplace  and 
"  go  for  her,"  but  she  was  not  so  strong  as  she  used  to  be. 
Surprise  had  taken  her  strength  clean  away,  too — she  was 
unlike  her  old  self  altogether. 

The  young  woman  spoke  first, 


OUT  OF  THK   ca(;k.  6r9 

"  Have  they  let  you  off — before  your  time  ?  "  Lizzie  asked. 
*'  How  is  it  you've  got  here  ?  " 

'*  Tve  escaped." 

*' Gawd's  truth  !"  ejaculated  Lizzie  in  her  astonishment,  and 
then  a  beaming  smile  crossed  the  hard  handsome  face.  She 
was  safe — this  woman  could  not  stand  between  her  and  Jim — 
she  could  call  in  a  policeman  if  she  chose  and  tell  him  what 
had  happened,  and  then  Lucy  Dulvers  would  be  run  in  and 
lose  her  ticket  of  leave,  and  there  would  be  a  longer  time  in 
prison  for  her.  Not  that  she  would  care  to  split  on  Jim's 
wife,  but  she  must  hold  her  own  if  Jim's  wife  was  "shirty." 
Jim  was  fonder  of  her  than  he  had  ever  been  of  Lucy,  and 
that  settled  the  question  in  the  mind  of  a  woman  who  knew 
less  of  right  from  wrong  than  even  Lucy  did. 

"  Wot  are  you  goin'  to  do  now  ? "  she  asked.  "  Wot's 
the  good  of  comin'  here  where  they're  sure  tofoUer  you  ?" 

"Let'em.  I  don't  care  now — whatever  happens,  I  don't 
care.  Oh,  yes,  I  do,"  she  cried  quickly.  "  Where's  my 
Bessie  ?  " 

"Your — Bessie  !     Did  you  say  your ?"  and  then  the 

woman  stopped  and  stared. 

"  Yes — my  Bessie.  I'll  take  her  away  with  me — straight — 
go  clear  off  and  hide  somewhere — she  and  me.  I  ain't  agoin' 
to  leave  her  in  such  bad  company  as  I  find  in  this  house  I" 

Lizzie  Carruthers  continued  to  focus  the  injured  wife  with 
all  the  power  of  her  big  black  eyes,  till  Lucy  even  felt 
uncomfortable. 

"  What  are  you  bossing  at  now  ?  "  Lucy  asked  angrily. 

"  Hasn't  Jim  told  you  that  even  ?     Don't  say  he  hasn't ! " 

"  Told— me— what  ?  " 

"  Why— that  Bessie's  dead." 

"  Dead  ?  "  screamed  Lucy. 

"  She  hooked  it  last  year,  poor  little  gal.  She  jest  caught  cold ; 

had  a  dip something  or  other  in  her  throat,  and  was  off  like 

a  shot.  We  were  both  sorry.  Jim  blubbered  like  a  softy  at 
the  funeral.  I  s'pose  he  was  afraid  of  upsettin'  you  by  tellin;^ 
you  anythink  about  it.  He  has  a  feeling  kind  of  heart,  you 
know.  I  don't  say  it  wasn't  best  now  I  come  to  think  of  it. 
Here,  hold  'ard — where  are  you  going  ?" 


620  COSMOPOUS. 

"I  am  going  up  to  Jim.  And  it's  more  than  your  life's 
worth  to  try  to  stop  me." 

"  Oh,  but  I  shall  stop  yer,"  and  Lizzie  put  her  hands  on  her 
hips  and  stood  up  fierce  and  defiant.  "  I'm  not  going  to  have 
my  Jim  upset,  and  he  so  drefful  ill.  You've  no  right  to  come 
back  like  a  bloomin'  ghost  to  bother  him  like  this — you  ought 
to  be  iLshamed  of  yourself  to  do  it — and  he  as  weak  as  a  rat.  1 
won't  have  it— that's  flat." 

"  Your  Jim !  Say  your  Jim  again,  and  I'll  smash  your 
skull  in,"  cried  Lucy,  and  she  snatched  up  the  poker  and 
looked  fierce  and  dangerous. 

"Here!  stow  that;  drop  that  damned  thing,  will  yer?" 
said  the  woman  alarmed. 

**  Stand  out  of  the  way,  and  let  me  go  upstairs  and  see 
him." 

The  woman  hesitated. 

"  All  right  then  ;  but  drop  that  poker,  and  let  me  go  with 
you  to  see  fair  play,"  shuddering  ;  *'  there  ain't  to  be  a  row, 
or  you'll  kill  him  right  off — there  ain't  to  be  a  row,  mind,  till 
Jim's,  oh,  ever  so  much  better.     Say  so  ?" 

The  poker  dropped  with  a  crash  into  the  fireplace,  and 
Lucy  said  : — 

"No;  no  row.  1  only  want  to  see  him — jest  once  more, 
afore  I'm  off." 

"  Off  where  ?  " 

"To  the  devil." 

"  Oh,  that's  all,"  said  the  woman  with  a  short  laugh,  as  she 
sat  down  her  boy  on  the  hearthrug  and  gave  him  the  dropped 
poker  to  play  with ;  "  well,  we're  all  off  that  way,  sharp 
enuf." 

Lucy  walked  slowly  towards  the  flight  of  greasy  wooden 
stairs,  ascended  two  or  three  steps,  then  paused  and  listened. 
A  man  was  groaning  in  the  room  above — a  man  sick  imto 
death. 

"  Lizzie,  he  called  out,  "  is  that  you  ?  Why  have  you — left 
— a  cove  so  long  ?     Who's  come  ?     What  is  it  ?  " 

Lucy,  very  white,  descended  the  stairs  again.  Her  hoarse 
voice  had  returned  to  her,  and  the  shortness  of  breath,  and  the 
jiideache,  and  the  great  heartache, 


OUT  OF  THE  CAGE.  62 1 

She  pushed  open  the  door  of  the  sitting-room  again  and 
dragged  herself  ip  wearily.  The  child  was  playing  with  the 
fireirons  still,  and  Lizzie  Carruthers  was  sitting  at  the  table 
darning  one  of  Jim's  big  socks  just  to  while  away  the  time  till 
Lucy  and  her  "  old  man  "  had  had  their  jaw  out.  She  looked 
up  as  Lucy  re-entered,  and  stared  as  she  might  have  done  at 
a  ghost,  Lucy  having  changed  so  much  within  the  last  few 
minutes — turned  so  white  and  grown  so  old  ! 

**  1  can't  go  up  yet,  missus,  it  takes  my  breath  away  some- 
how ;  it's— it's  too  much  of  a  rush  like,"  said  Lucy,  sinking 
heavily  into  the  nearest  chair,  passing  one  shal^ng  hand  over 
her  forehead,  and  pushing  a  stray  wisp  or  two  of  hair  into  the 
recesses  of  her  coal-scuttle  bonnet.  **  I'm  almost  dead  beat. 
Give  me  a  glass  of  water,  will  you  ?  " 

There  was  a  water-bottle  on  the  sideboard,  and  Lizzie 
Carruthers  went  to  it,  poured  some  water  into  a  glas$,  and 
tendered  it  to  the  wife,  who  drank  eagerly  every  drop. 

*'  I  feel  better  now.  I'll  have  another  try  to  get  upstairs 
in  a  minute  or  two,  when  my  cussed  legs  give  over  shakin'. 
I  don't  know  what's  —  come  —  to  me,"  she  added  very 
helplessly. 

"  If  you  want  to  see  him,  you'd  better  get  it  over  sharpish." 

'*  Why  ?  " 

"  You  haven't  much  time  to  spare." 

"Oh,  haven't  I  ?  How  do  you  know  ?"  said  Lucy,  feeling 
what  a  glorious  thing  it  would  be  to  throw  the  empty  glass  at 
the  woman's  brazen  face  and  cut  it  all  to  ribbons. 

"  This  is  about  the  first  place,  I  should  say,  that  they'd  come 
and  look  for  you.'* 

"  Who'd  come  ?  " 

''The  people  from  the  prison  —  and  the  police  —  and  so 
forth,"  said  Lizzie,  in  a  calm  explanatory  way. 

"  I  don't  mind — I  don't  care  a  bit — not  a  damned  bit,"  said 
Lucy,  defiantly ;  "  the  sooner  they  come  the  better,  for  what 
my  life's  worth  now." 

"  Oh,  if  you  look  on  it  in  that  kind  of  light,  p'raps  you're 
right.  But  I  fancy  I  should  hook  it  myself,"  was  Lizzie's  cool, 
almost  unconcerned  remark. 

**  Ah,  I  daresay  yoti  would,"  said  Lucy. 


62  2  COSMOPOLIS. 

There  was  an  unpleasant  and  embarrassing  silence  after 
this,  broken  at  last  by  Lucy  rising  with  difficulty  to  her 
feet,  as  someone  knocked  overhead  impatiently  with  a  stick. 

"  He's  knocking   for  you,"  said  Lucy,  malevolently,  "  but 
ril   go    up   instead    and   surprise   him.      No,"  sitting   down 
again  suddenly,  "  I  can't  go  up — not  all  of  a  sudden — by  God 
I  can't !  " 

"  Well,  that's  real  kind  of  you,  Mrs.  Dulvers,"  said  the 
woman,  gratefully,  "  and  I'm  glad.  The  doctor  only  said 
this  morning,  *  Keep  him  free  from  all  excitement  ;  let  him 
be  very  quiet,  or  he'll  go  off  like  the  snuff*  of  a  bloomin' 
candle/  " 

*'  Tell  him  I'm  here,  will  you  ?  And  how  it  is.  And  wot's 
happened.  And  ask  him  if  he'd  just  like  to  see  me  for  a 
moment.     He  might,"  Lucy  added  thoughtfully. 

"Oh,  all  right.     I  don't  mind  doing  that  for  you." 

It  was  said  patronisingly,  and  Lucy's  eyes  had  danger 
signals  in  them,  but  Lizzie  Carruthers  was  unaware  of  that. 
She  had  turned  already  towards  the  door,  which  she  opened 
and  passed  through  into  the  narrow  passage  without. 

"  Lizzie,  where  the  devil  are  you  ?  "  cried  a  sharp,  querulous 
voice  from  above  stairs. 

"  I'm  a-comin',"  answered  Lizzie.  "Don't  keep  yellin'  like 
that  at  me." 

Lucy  sat  and  listened.  She  heard  the  footsteps  of  her  rival 
creaking  on  the  stairs,  the  door  of  the  bedroom  opened  and 
closed  with  an  angry  slam,  and,  finally,  the  creaking  boots 
moving  overhead  in  the  room  above — Jim's  room  1 

She  listened  attentively  for  awhile,  staring  at  the  child  upon 
the  floor,  who  was  deeply  interested  in  his  new  and  unwieldy 
toy.  What  a  time  they  were  upstairs  !  Jim  was  frightened  and 
ashamed,  and  would  not  give  permission  for  his  own  wife  to 
see  him.  He  was  always  a  coward,  was  Jim.  Very  likely  the 
woman  was  persuading  Jim  not  to  see  her — more  than  likely 
that,  because  she  was  fond  of  Jim,  too.  Oh,  yes  ;  she  knew  I 
She,  the — and  then  she  looked  at  the  child  again.  Ha  !  what 
a  revenge.  How  easy  to  kill  the  boy — their  boy  ;  and  for  the 
woman  to  come  downstairs  presently,  and  to  be  "  paid  out " 
like  that.    The  child  dead — all  its  brains  dashed  out  over  the 


Orr  OF  THE   CAGE.  623 

carpet  and  the  fender,  and  showing  througli  the  pretty 
golden  curls  there.  Yes,  why  not  ?  Bessie  was  dead — ^and 
Jim  was  dying,  perhaps.  Why  not?  She  snatched  up  the 
poker,  and  raised  it  in  her  two  nervous  hands.  The  child 
looked  up  and  saw  only  burlesque  in  the  attitude,  and  smiled 
at  her,  and  she  was  transHxed.  At  the  same  instant  the  door 
above  opened,  and  Lizzie's  voice  called  out  : — 

"  Mrs.  Dulvers  1 " 

"  Yes,"  she  answered. 

'*  Jim  wants  to  see  you  ;  he's  worse.  Come  up  quick,  please. 
And,"  she  added  in  a  lower  key,  ^*  do  speak  kind  to  him 
a  bit." 

Lucy  threw  down  the  poker  and  went  towards  the  stairs. 
Strangely  irresolute  in  all  her  moods  was   Lucy  Dulvers  that 
day.     In  the  dim  passage  she  came  to  a  full  stop  once  more 
and  thought  it  over  with    her   finger-nails   at  her    quivering 
white  lips. 

"  No,  I  can't  see  him  now,"  she  muttered.  "  What's  the  use 
of  it  ?  "  she  muttered.     "  What's  the  blessed  good  ?  " 

She  set  one  foot  on  the  stairs,  stopped  again  and  shook  her 
head.  The  instant  afterwards  she  turned  away  and  walked 
slowly  and  thoughtfully  towards  the  street  door. 

"  No,  I  can't  see  him.  I  don't  w-ant  any  words  w4th  him 
now.     1  only  want  to  get  away  home.     That's  all  I  care  about." 

She  gave  a  nervous  upward  glance.  Lizzie  Carruthers  was 
not  there  to  whisper  her  injunctions  over  the  balusters  ;  she 
had  gone  back  into  the  room  where  Jim  was  coughing  out  his 
life.  Lucy  opened  the  street  door  noiselessly,  stepped  into  the 
little  murky  street,  and  closed  the  door  carefully  behind  her, 
pushing  against  it  afterwards  to  make  sure  it  was  fastened,  lest 
the  child  should  stray  from  the  house  and  be  lost  !  Assured  of 
this,  she  gave  a  general  wild  look  round,  winding  up  with  a 
long,  steady  stare  at  the  dirty  window  above  the  parlour  floor 
before  walking  quietly  and  gravely  away. 

People  looked  at  her  from  doorways  and  over  window 
blinds,  and  one  or  two  shivering  mortals  glanced  askance  at 
her  as  they  passed  her  on  the  miry  pavement,  fancying  that 
her  face  was  not  unknown  to  them,  but  she  went  on  steadily, 
looking  neither  to  the  right  nor  left. 


624  oo^yop6Li& 

When  she  had  crossed  Oakley-street  into  Gloucester-street  she 
increased  her  pace — presently  breaking  into  a  run  as  if  the 
necessity  for  haste,  the  eagerness  to  get  away  from  it  all  and 
for  ever,  was  terribly  strong  upon  her.  It  was  to  the  Tower- 
street  Police  Station  that  she  was  hurrying,  running  now  iis 
fast  as  her  legs  would  carry  her,  like  a  woman  pursued  and  in 
danger.  There  were  half  a  dozen  policemen  round  the  doors 
talking  and  laughing,  and  they  all  looked  at  her  as  she  hastened 
towards  them.  Here  was  business  on  hand — something  in 
their  line  ;  something  further  down  the  dark  streets  from  which 
she  emerged — a  drunken  husband  probably,  or  murder  very 
likely. 

Lucy  plunged  into  their  midst. 

"  Here,  you  chaps,  where's  the  'spector  ?  I  want  to  see  the 
'spector." 

'*  You'll  find  him  inside,"  one  man  answered.  '*  What's 
up  ?  " 

Lucy  pushed  her  way  into  the  station-house  followed  by  one 
or  two  curious  policemen.  From  an  outer  room  to  an  inner, 
and  before  the  inspector  at  last. 

"  Well,  my  good  woman,  what  is  the  matter  ? "  was  the 
inquiry  put  to  her. 

"  I'm  Lucy  Dulvers,  just  escaped  from  prison,"  said  Lucy, 
breathlessly  almost.  '*  I  daresay  you've  heard  by  this  time, 
and  are  looking  out  for  me." 

"  Well,  yes,  we  have  heard." 

*'  1  want  to  go  back  to  quod  ;  I'm  a  good  conduct  woman, 
I  am,"  cried  Lucy,  "  I'm  sick  o'  being  out  already,  it  don't  suit 
me.  Take  me  home,  will  you,  some  of  you,  I  do  so  want 
to  get  home  !  " 

"  '  Home,'  you  call  it  ?"  said  the  inspector  with  a  grin.  "  Well, 
that's  a  good  one." 

"Yes,"  was  the  reply,  "it's  the  best  home  I've  ever  known." 

F.  W.  Robinson. 


THE  REVOLUTION/ 


I. 

Not  yet  had  History's  /Etna  smoked  the  skies, 
And  low  the  Gallic  Giantess  lay  enchained. 
While  overhead  in  ordered  set  and  rise, 
Her  kingly  crowns  immutably  defiled  ; 
Effulgent  on  funereal  piled 
Across  the  vacant  heavens,  and  distrained 
Her  body,  mutely,  even  as  earth,  to  bear  ; 
Despoiled  the  tomb  of  hope,  her  mouth  of  air. 

II. 

Through  marching  scores  of  winters  racked  she  lay, 

Beneath  a  hoar-frost's  brilliant  crust, 

Whereon  the  jewelled  flies  that  drained 

Her  breasts  disported  in  a  glistering  spray  ; 

She,  the  land's  fount  of  fruits,  enclosed  with  dust ; 

By  good  and  evil  angels  fed,  sustained 

In  part  to  curse,  in  part  to  pray. 

Sucking  the  dubious  rumours,  till  men  saw 

The  throbs  of  her  charged  heart  before  the  Just, 

So  worn  the  harrowed  surface  had  become  : 

And  still  they  deemed  the  dance  above  was  Law, 

Amort  all  passion  in  a  rebel  dumb. 

III. 

Then  on  the  unanticipated  day. 
Earth  heaved,  and  rose  a  veinous  mound 
To  roar  of  the  underfloods  ;  and  off  it  sprang. 
Ravishing  as  red  wine  in  woman's  form, 

•  Copyright,  1898^  in  the  United  States  of  America,  by  Gc<irgc  Meredith. 


626  COSMOPOLIS. 

A  splendid  Maenad,  she  of  the  delirious  laugh, 
Her  body  twisted  flames  with  the  smoke-cap  crowned  ; 
She  of  the  Bacchic  foot ;  the  challenger  to  the  fray, 
Bewitchment  for  the  embrace  ;  who  sang,  who  sang 
'  1  ntoxication  to  her  swarm, 
Revolved  them,  hair,  voice,  feet,  in  her  carmagnole. 
As  with  a  stroke  she  snapped  the  Royal  staff, 
Dealt  the  awaited  blow  on  gilt  decay 
(O  ripeness  of  the  time  !     O  Retribution  sure, 
If  but  our  vital  lamp  illume  us  to  endure  !), 
And,  like  a  glad  releasing  of  her  soul, 
Sent  the  word  Liberty  up  to  meet  the  midway  blue, 
Her  bridegroom  in  descent  to  her  ;  and  they  joined. 
In  the  face  of  men  they  joined  :  attest  it  true. 
The  million  witnesses,  that  she 
For  ages  lying  beside  the  mole. 
Was  on  the  unanticipated  miracle  day 
Upraised  to  midw^ay  heaven  and,  as  to  her  goal. 
Enfolded,  ere  the  Immaculate  knew 
What  Lucifer  of  the  Mint  had  coined 
His  bride's  adulterate  currency 
Of  burning  love  corrupt  of  an  infuriate  hate  ; 
She  worthy,  she  unworthy  ;  that  one  day  his  mate  : 
His  mate  for  that  one  day  of  the  unwritten  deed. 
Read  backward  on  the  hoar-frost's  brilliant  crust  ; 
Beneath  it  read. 

Athirst  to  kiss,  athirst  to  slay,  she  stood, 
A  radiance  fringed  with  grim  affright ; 
For  them  that  hungered,  she  was  nourishing  food, 
For  those  who  sparkled,  Night. 
Read  in  her  heart,  and  how  before  the  Just 
Her  doings,  her  misdoings,  plead. 


IV. 


Down  on  her  leap  for  him  the  young  Angelical  broke, 
To  husband  a  resurgent  France  : 
From  whom,  with  her  dethroning  stroke, 
Dishonour  passed  ;  the  dalliance. 


THE   REVOLUTION.  627 

That  is  occasion's  yea  or  nay, 

In  issues  for  the  soul  to  pay, 

Discarded  ;  and  the  cleft  'twixt  deed  and  word, 

The  sinuous  lie  which  warbles  the  sweet  bird. 

Wherein  we  see  old  Darkness  peer, 

Cold  Dissolution  beck,  she  had  flung  hence  ; 

And  hence  the  talons  and  the  beak  of  prey  ; 

Hence  all  the  lures  to  silken  swine 

Thronging  the  troughs  of  indolence  ; 

With  every  sleek  convolvement  serpentine  ; 

The  pride  in  elfin  arts  to  veil  an  evil  leer, 

And  bid  a  goatfoot  trip  it  like  a  fay. 

He  clasped  in  this  revived,  uprisen  France, 

A  valorous  dame,  of  countenance 

The  lightning's  upon  cloud  :  unlit  as  yet 

On  brows  and  lips  the  lurid  shine 

Of  seas  in  the  night-wind's  whirl  ;  unstirred 

Her  pouch  of  the  centuries'  injuries  compressed  ; 

The  shriek  that  tore  the  world  as  yet  unheard  : 

Earth's  animate  full  flower  she  looked,  intense 

For  worship,  wholly  given  him,,fltir 

Adoring  or  desiring  ;  in  her  bright  jet. 

Earth's  crystal  spring  to  sky  :  Earth's  warrior  Best 

To  win  Heaven's  Pure  up  that  midway 

We  vision  for  new  ground,  where  sense 

And  spirit  are  one  for  the  further  flight ;  breast-bare. 

Bare-limbed  ;  nor  graceless  gleamed  her  disarray 

In  scorn  of  the  seductive  insincere. 

But  martially  nude  for  hot  Bellona's  play, 

And  amorous  of  the  loftiest  in  her  view. 


v. 

She  sprang  from  dust  to  drink  of  earth's  cool  dew. 

The  breath  of  swaying  grasses  share. 

Mankind  embrace,  their  weaklings  rear, 

At  wrestle  with  the  tyrannic  strong  ; 

Her  forehead  clear  to  her  mate,  virgin  anew, 

As  immortals  may  be  in  the  mortal  sphere. 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  X.WII. 


628  COSMOPOLIS. 

Read  through  her  launching  heart,  who  had  lain  long 

With  Earth  and  heard  till  it  became  her  own, 

Our  good  Great  Mother's. eve  and  matin  song  : 

The  humming  burden  of  Earth's  toil  to  feed 

Her  creatures  all,  her  task  to  speed  their  growth, 

Her  aim  to  lead  them  up  her  pathways,  shown 

Between  the  Pains  and  Pleasures  ;  warned  of  both, 

Of  either  aided  on  their  hard  ascent. 

Now  when  she  looked  with  love's  benign  delight 

After  great  ecstasy,  along  the  plains. 

What  foulest  impregnation  of  her  sight 

Transformed  the  scene  to  multitudinous  troops 

(^f  human  sketches,  quaver-figures,  bent, 

As  were  they  winter  sedges,  broken  hoops, 

Dry  udders,  vineless  poles,  worm-eaten  posts, 

With  features  like  the  flowers  defaced  by  deluge  rains  ? 

Recked  she  that  some  perverting  devil  had  limned 

Earth's  proudest  to  spout  scorn  of  the  Maker's  hand, 

Who  could  a  day  behold  these  deathly  hosts, 

And  see,  decked,  graced,  and  delicately  trimmed, 

A  ribanded  and  gemmed  elected  few, 

Sanctioned,  of  milk  and  honey  starve  the  land  : — 

Like  melody  in  flesh,  its  pleasant  game 

Olympian  wise  perform,  cloak  but  the  shame  : 

Beautiful  statures  ;  hideous, 

By  Christian  contrast ;  pranked  with  golden  chains. 

And  flexile  where  is  manhood  straight ; 

Mortuaries  where  warm  should  beat 

The  brotherhood  that  keeps  blood  sweet  : 

Who  dared  in  cantique  impious, 

Proclaim  the  Just,  to  whom  was  due 

Cathedral  gratitude  in  the  pomp  of  state, 

For  that  on  those  lean  outcasts  hung  the  sucker  Pains, 

On  these  elect  the  swelling  Pleasures  grew. 

Surely  a  devil's  land  when  that  meant  death  for  each  ! 

Fresh  from  the  breast  of  Earth,  not  thus, 

With  all  the  body's  life  to  plump  the  leech. 

Is  Nature's  way,  she  knew.    The  abominable  scene 

Snat  at  the  skies  ;  and  through  her  veins, 


THK    REVOLUTION.  62Q 

To  cloud  celestially  sown, 
Ran  venom  of  what  nourishment 
Her  dark  sustainer  subterrene 
Supplied  her,  stretched  supine  on  the  rack, 
Alive  in  the  shrewd  nerves,  the  seething  brains, 
Under  derisive  revels,  prone 

As   one    clamped   fast,  with    the   interminable    senseless 
blent. 

VI. 

Now  was  her  face   white  waves  in  the  tempest's  sharp 

flame-blink ; 
Her  skies  shot  black. 
Now  was  it  visioned  infamy  to  drink 
Of  earth's  cool  dew,  and  through  the  vines 
Frolic  in  pearly  laughter  with  her  young, 
Watching  the  healthful,  natural,  happy  signs 
Where  hands  of  lads  and  maids  like  tendrils  clung. 
After  their  sly  shy  ventures  from  the  leaf, 
And  promised  bunches.     Now  it  seemed 
The  world  was  one  malarious  mire. 
Crying  for  purification  :  chief 
This  land  of  France.     It  seemed 
A  duteous  desire 
To  drink  of  life's  hot  flood,  and  the  crimson  streamed. 

VII. 

She  drank  what  makes  man  demon  at  the  draught. 

Her  skies  lowered  black, 

Her  lover  flew. 

There  swept  a  shudder  over  men. 

Her  heavenly  lover  fled  her,  and  she  laughed. 

For  laughter  was  her  spirit's  weapon  then. 

The  Infernal  rose  uncalled,  he  with  his  crew. 

VIII. 

As  mighty  thews  burst  manacles,  she  went  mad  : 
heart  a  flaring  torch  usurped  her  wits. 


630  COSMOPOLIS. 

Such  enemies  of  her  next-drawn  breath  she  had  I 

To  tread  her  down  in  her  live  grave  beneath 

Their  dancing  floor  sunned  blind  by  the  Royal  wreath, 

They  ringed  her  steps  with  crafty  prison  pits. 

Without  they  girdled  her,  made  nest  within. 

There  ramped  the  lion,  here  entrailed  the  snake. 

They  forced  the  cup  to  her  lips  when  she  drank  blood  ; 

Believing  it,  in  the  mother's  mind  at  strain, 

In  the  mother's  fears,  and  in  young  Liberty's  wail 

Alarmed,  for  her  encompassed  children's  sake  ; 

The  sole  sure  way  to  save  her  priceless  bud. 

Wherewith,  when  power  had  gifted  her  to  prevail, 

Vengeance  appeared  as  logically  akin. 

Insanely  rational  they  ;  she  rationally  insane  ; 

And  in  compute  of  sin,  was  hers  the  appealing  sin. 

IX. 

Amid  the  plash  of  scarlet  mud. 

Stained  at  the  mouth,  drunk  with  our  common  air. 

Not  lack  of  love  was  her  defect ; 

The  Fury  mourned  and  raged  and  bled  for  France  ; 

Breathing  from  exultation  to  despair 

At  every  wild-winged  hope  struck  by  mischance. 

Soaring  at  each  faint  gleam  o'er  her  abyss. 

Heard  still,  to  be  heard  while  France  shall  stand  erect, 

The  frontier  march  she  piped  her  sons,  for  where 

Her  crouching  outer  enemy  camped, 

Attendant  on  the  deadlier  inner's  hiss. 

She  piped  her  sons  the  frontier  march,  the  wine 

Of  martial  music,  History's  cherished  tune  ; 

And  they,  the  saintliest  labourers  that  aye 

Dropped  sweat  on  soil  for  bread,  took  arms  and  tramped  ; 

High -breasted  to  match  men  or  elements, 

Or  Fortune,  harsh  schoolmistress  with  the  undrilled  : 

War's  ragged  pupils  ;  many  a  wavering  line, 

Torn  from   the  dear   fat  soil   of   champaigns  hopefully 

tilled. 
Torn  from  the  motherly  bowl,  the  homely  spoon, 


THE   REVOLUTION.  63I 

To  jest  at  famine,  ply 

The  novel  scythe,  and  stand  to  it  on  the  field  ; 
Lie  in  the  furrows,  rain-clouds  for  their  tents  ; 
Fronting  the  red  artillery  straighten  spine  ; 
Buckle  the  shiver  at  sight  of  comrades  strewn  ; 
Over  an  empty  platter  aflfect  the  merrily  filled  ; 
Die,  if  the  multiple  hazards  around  said  die  ; 
Downward  measure  a  foeman  mightily  sized  ; 
Laugh  at  the  legs  that  would  run  for  a  life  despised  ; 
Lyrical  on  into  death's  red  roaring  jaw-gape,  steeled 
Gaily  to  take  of  the  foe  his  lesson,  and  give  reply. 
Cheerful  apprentices,  they  shall  be  masters  soon ! 

Lo,  where  hurricane  flocks  of  the  North-wind  rattle  their 

thunder 
Loud  through  a  night,  and  at  dawn  comes  change  to  the 

great  South-west, 
Hounds    are    the    hounded    in    clouds,    waves,    forests, 

inverted  the  race  : 
Lo,   in  the   day's   young    beams    the    colossal   invading 

pursuers 
Burst  upon  rocks  and  were  toam  ; 
Ridged  up  a  torrent  crest ; 
Crumbled  to  ruin,  still  gazing  a  glacial  wonder ; 
Turned  shamed  feet  toe  to  heel  on  their  track  at  a  panic 

pace. 
Yesterday's  clarion  cock  scudded  hen  of  the  invalid  comb  ; 
They,  the  triumphant  tonant  towering  upper,  were  under  ; 
They,  violators  of  home,  dared  hope  an  inviolate  home  ; 
They  that  had  stood  for  the  stroke   were  the   vigorous 

hewers  ; 
Quick  as  the  trick  of  the  wrist  with  the  rapier,  they  the 

pursuers. 
Heavens  and  men  amazed  heard  the  arrogant  crying  fo»" 

grace ; 
Saw  the  once  hearth-reek  rabble  the  scourge  of  an  army 

dispieced  ; 


632  COSMOPOLIS. 

Saw   such   a  shift  of  the  hunt  as  when  Titan   Olympus 

clomb. 
Fly  !    was  the  sportsman's  word  ;   and  the  note  of  the 

quarry  rang,  Chase  ! 

xr. 

Banners  from  South,  from  East, 

Sheaves  of  pale  banners  drooping  hole  and  shred  ; 

The  captive  brides  of  valour,  Sabine  Wives 

Plucked  from  the  foeman's  blushful  bed, 

For  glorious  muted  battle-tongues 

Of  deeds  along  the  horizon's  red. 

At  cost  of  unreluctant  lives  ; 

Her  tireless  heroes  homeward  poured, 

To  give  their  fevered  mother  air  of  the  lungs. 

She  breathed,  and  in  the  breathing  craved. 

Environed  as  she  was,  at  bay. 

Safety  she  kissed  on  her  drawn  sword. 

And  waved  for  victory,  for  fresh  victory  waved  : 

She  craved  for  victory  as  her  daily  bread  ; 

For  victory  as  her  daily  banquet  raved. 

xii. 

Now  had  her  glut  of  vengeance  left  her  grey 

Of  blood,  who  in  her  entrails  fiercely  tore 

To  clutch  and  squeeze  her  snakes  ;  herself  the  more 

Devitalising  :  red  was  her  Auroral  ray  ; 

Desired  if  but  to  paint  her  pallid  hue. 

The  passion  for  that  young  horizon  red. 

Which  dowered  her  with  the  flags,  the  blazing  fame. 

Like  dotage  of  the  past-meridian  daqie 

For  some  bright  Sungod  adolescent,  swelled 

Insatiate,  to  the  voracious  grew. 

The  glutton's  inward  raveners  bred  ; 

Till  she,  mankind's  most  dreaded,  most  abhorred. 

Witless  in  her  demands  on  Fortune,  asked, 

As  by  the  weaving  Fates  impelled. 

To  have  the  thing  most  loathed,  the  iron  lord, 

Controller  and  chastiser,  under  Victory  masked. 


THE   RKVOLrriON.  633 

Xlll. 

Banners  from  East,  from  South, 

She  hugged  him  in  them,  feared  the  scourge  they  meant. 

Yet  blindly  hugged,  and  hungering  built  his  throne. 

So  may  you  see  the  village  innocent. 

With  curtsey  of  shut  lids  and  open  mouth. 

In  act  to  beg  for  sweets  expect  a  loathly  stone  : 

See  furthermore  the  Just  in  his  measures  weigh 

Her  sufferings  and  her  sins,  dispense  her  meed. 

False  to  her  bridegroom  lord  of  the  miracle  day. 

She  fell :  from  his  ethereal  home  observed 

Through  love,  grow^n  alien  love,  not  moved  to  plead 

Against  the  season's  fruit  for  deadly  Seed, 

But  marking  how  she  had  aimed,  and  where  she  swerved, 

Why  suffered,  with  a  sad  consenting  thought. 

Nor  would  he  shun  her  sullen  look,  nor  monstrous  hold 

The  doer  of  the  monstrous  ;  she  aroused. 

She,  the  long  tortured,  suddenly  freed,  distraught, 

More  strongly  the  divine  in  him  than  when 

Joy  of  her  as  she  sprang  from  mould 

Drew  him  the  midway  heavens  adown 

To  clasp  her  in  his  arms  espoused 

Before  the  sight  of  wondering  men. 

And  put  upon  the  day  a  deathless  crown. 

The  veins  and  arteries  of  her,  fold  in  fold. 

His  alien  love  laid  open,  to  divide 

The  martyred  creature  from  her  crimes  ;  he  knew 

What  cowardice  in  her  valour  could  reside  ; 

What  strength  her  weakness  covered  ;  what  abased 

Sublimity  so  illumining,  and  what  raised 

This  wallower  in  old  slime  to  noblest  heights, 

Up  to  the  union  on  the  midway  blue  : — 

Day  that  the  celestial  grave  Recorder  hangs 

Among  dark  History's  nocturnal  lights, 

With  vivid  beams  indicative  to  the  quick 

Of  all  who  have  felt  the  vaulted  body's  pangs 

Beneath  a  mind  in  hopeless  soaring  sick. 

She  had  forgot  how,  long  enslaved,  she  yearned 


634  COSMOPbLIS. 

To  the  one  helping  hand  above  ; 

Forgot  her  faith  in  the  Great  Undiscerned, 

Whereof  she  sprang  aloft  to  her  Angelical  love 

That  day  :  and  he,  the  bright  day's  husband,  still  with  love, 

Though  alien,  though  to  an  upper  seat  retired, 

Beheld  a  wrangling  heart,  as  'twere  her  soul 

On  eddies  of  wild  waters  cast  ; 

In  wilderness  division  ;  fired 

P'or  domination,  freedom,  lust, 

The  Pleasures  ;  lo,  a  witch's  snaky  bowl 

Set  at  her  lips  ;  the  blood-drinker's  madness  fast 

Upon  her  ;  nnd  therewith  mistrust, 

Most  of  herself  :  a  mouth  of  guile. 

Compassionately  could  he  smile, 

To  hear  the  mouth  disclaiming  God, 

And  clamouring  for  the  Just ! 

Her  thousand  impulses,  like  torches,  coursed 

City  and  field  ;  and  pushed  abroad 

O'er  tameless  waves  to  thirsty  sands, 

Flaring  at  further  ;  she  had  grown  to  be 

The  headless  with  the  fearful  hands  ; 

To  slaughter,  else  to  suicide  enforced. 

But  he,  remembering  how  his  love  began. 

And  of  -what  creature,  pitied  when  was  plain 

Another  measure  of  captivity  ; 

The  need  for  strap  and  rod  ; 

The  penitential  prayers  again  ; 

Again  the  bitter  bowing  down  to  dust ; 

The  burden  on  the  flesh  for  who  disclaims  the  God  ; 

The  answer  when  is  call  upon  the  Just. 

Whence  her  lost  virtue  had  found  refuge  strode 

Her  Master,  saying,  "  I  only  ;  1  who  can  ! " 

And  echoed  round  her  army,  now  her  chain. 

So  learns  the  nation  closing  Anarch's  reign. 

That  she  has  been  in  travail  of  a  Man. 

George  Meredith. 


COLERIDGE'S  NOTES  ON  FLOGEL. 


Charles  Lamb  in  that  always  fresh  and  deHghtful  essay  of  his, 
**  The  Two  Races  of  Men/'  pubHshed  in  The  London 
yfajtfazine  for  December,  1820,  propounded  the  theory  that 
the  human  species  is  composed  of  two  distinct  races — the  men 
who  borrow  and  the  men  who  lend.  Among  the  men  who 
borrow  figures  conspicuously  one  "  Comberbatch,"  afterwards 
briefly  mentioned  as  "  C/'  and  finally  blossoming  out  into 
"  S.  T.  C.  "  ;  for  we  all  know  now  that  Comberbatch — Silas 
Thompson  Comberbatch — was  the  alias  under  which  Samuel 
Taylor  Coleridge,  at  the  age  of  eighteen,  enlisted  in  a  regiment 
of  dragoons.  Elia,  as  the  lender,  bewails,  but  wholly  without 
bitterness,  how  this  typical  borrower  had  carried  off  his  folio 
"Opera  Bonaventurai,"  his  Browne  on  Urn  Burial,  the 
fourth  volume  of  Dodsley's  Collection  of  Old  Plays  (with 
**  Vittoria  Corrombona,"  inter  alia^  in  it),  Burton's  *'  Anatomy 
of  Melancholy,"  Walton's  **  Complete  Angler,"  and  the  Life 
of  John  Buncle.  But  although  he  bewailed  their  temporary 
absence,  and  the  conversion  of  his  Dodsley,  at  least  for  the 
moment,  into  a  broken  set,  he  was  clearly  not  without  hopes 
of  a  joyful  reunion  with  them,  and  even  thought  the  risk  of 
final  loss  worth  running.  He  concludes  his  essay  with  the 
words  : — 

*'  Reader,  if  haply  thou  art  blessed  with  a  moderate  collection, 
be  shy  of  showing  it  ;  or  if  thy  heart  overfloweth  to  lend  them, 
lend  thy  books  ;  but  let  it  be  to  such  a  one  as  S.  T.  C. — he 
will  return  them  (generally  anticipating  the  time  appointed) 
w^ith  usury  ;  enriched  with  annotations,  tripling  their  value.     1 


636  COSMOPOLIS. 

have  had  experience.  Many  are  these  precious  MSS.  of  his — 
(in  nuitter  oftentimes,  and  almost  in  quantity  not  unfrequently, 
vying  with  the  originals) — in  no  very  clerkly  hand — legible  in 
my  Daniel ;  in  old  Burton  ;  in  Sir  Thomas  Browne ;  and 
those  abstruser  cogitations  of  the  Grcville,  now,  alas  !  wander- 
ing in    Pagan   lands, 1   counsel  thee,  shut  not   thy  heart, 

nor  thy  library,  against  S.  T.  C." 

Perhaps  Southey  was  of  the  same  opinion.  He  had  an 
immense  collection  of  books,  among  which  were  the  four 
volumes  of  Flogel's  "  Geschichte  der  Komischen  Litteratur." 
Whether  Coleridge  gave  it  to  him  after  he  had  finished  with  it, 
or  borrowed  it  from  him  and  returned  it  with  the  munificent 
interest  which  Lamb  was  accustomed  to  expect  from  the  s;ime 
quarter,  there  is  no  internal  evidence.  It  would  be  pleasing 
to  think  that  the  good  man  placed  the  four  volumes  in  his 
friend's  hands  unreservedly,  and  received  back  his  own  with 
usury ;  but,  whatever  the  order  of  the  facts,  certain  it  is  that 
Southey  owned,  and  Coleridge  annotated,  a  copy  of  the 
original  Liegnitz  and  Leipzig  edition  of  the  "  History  of 
Comic  Literature  "  which  I  am  about  to  describe  and  draw 
upon.  The  following  arc  the  particulars  of  the  **  outer 
book  "     what  bibliographers  call  the  "  collation,"  &c. :  — 

'*Geschichte/der/komischen/Litteratur.  /  Von/Carl  Friedrich 
F16gel,/Professor  der  Philosophie  bey  der  koniglichen  Ritter- 
Aka-/demie  zu  Liegnitz,  und  Beysitzer  der  konigl.  Geseilschaft/ 
der  Wissenschaften  zu  Frankfurt  an  der  Oder.  /  Krster  Band. 
[Bande  II,  III  und  \\\'\  Mit  Kupfern.  /  Liegnitz  und  l>eipzig,/ 
bey  David  Siegert,  1784."  Four  volumes,  8vo.  Vol.  I.,  pp.  xx, 
412. — Titel,  Vorrede,  Uebersicht,  pp.  i — xx  ;  text,  pp.  1 — 386; 
Register  und  Errata,  pp.  387 — 412.  Southey's  autograph  in 
full  and  book-plate  ;  the  former,  as  usual,  on  title  under 
imprint,  and  the  latter,  as  usual,  cut  out  and  stuck  on  back  of 
title.  Autograph  marginal  notes  by  Coleridge  on  pp.  261 
and  262 . 

Vol.  II.,  1785,  pp.  xvi,  638. — Titel,  Vorrede,  Inhalt,  pp. 
i — xvi  ;  text,  pp.  i — 638.  Autograph  marginal  notes  by 
Coleridge  on  pp.  4,  12,  16,  17,  18,  19,  24,  25,  26,  27,  29,  37, 
113,  147.  161,  189,  336,  337,  346,  372,  375,  399,  402,  406,  460, 
474,  477,  483,  484,  485,  and  by  Southey  on  p.  387. 


COLP:KIDGfc's   NOTES   OX    FLOGEL.  637 

Vol.  III.,  1786.  Mit  einer  Kupfertafel,  pp.  x,  604.  Titel, 
Vorrede,  Inhalt,  pp.  i — x ;  text,  pp.  i — 604.  Autograph 
marginal  notes,  by  Coleridge,  on  pp.  40,  77,  96,  224,  225,  and 
by  Southey  on  p.  39. 

Vol.  IV.  (und  letzter),  1787,  pp.  xx,  428.  Titel,  Vorrede, 
Inhalt,  pp.  i — xx  ;  text,  pp.  i — 360  ;  register,  pp.  361 — 428. 
Autograph  marginal  notes,  by  Coleridge,  on  pp.  58,  72,  73,  75, 
79,  201,  207,  212,  215,  219,  221,  226,  306,  307,  308,  309,  313, 
315,  316,  and  by  Southey  on  p.  173. 

Southey  appears  to  have  read  the  book  himself — or  at  all 
events  a  good  deal  of  it  ;  but  he  wrote  very  little  in  the 
margins.  His  plan  seems  to  have  been  to  read  with  a  slip  of 
paper  for  a  marker,  and  note  thereon  in  pencil  the  pages  to 
which  he  wished  to  refer  again.  Such  a  slip,  belonging  to  the 
first  volume,  is  still  in  the  book  ;  and  amid  his  list  of  numbers 
there  are  two  notes  :  these  are  on  passages  at  page  1 1  and 
page  334.  A  similar  paper  with  a  few  references  jotted  upon 
it  remains  in  the  second  volume ;  but  this  bears  no  substan- 
tive note.  While  Southey's  notes  are  but  five  in  all  (two 
on  these  slips  and  three  in  the  margins  of  the  book),  those  of 
Coleridge  are  no  fewer  than  fifty-one  in  number,  besides 
casual  corrections.  They  range  from  a  few  words  to  whole 
margins  full,  extending  from  one  page  to  the  next.  A  large 
proportion  of  them  are  carefully  written  in  ink  and  initialled  ; 
but  a  few,  jotted  down  in  pencil,  are  a  little  difficult  to  read 
in  consequence  of  the  hook  having  been  bound  after  the 
annotation,  so  that  here  and  there  the  pencil-marks  on  one 
page  are  "  set-off  "  against  those  facing  them,  and  the  strokes 
cross.  When  the  book  came  to  the  surface  a  description  of 
it  appeared  in  The  Atlieucrum,  from  which  the  following 
passage  is  quoted  : — 

*'  To  save  a  pang  to  such  readers  as  may  be  fearing  that  the 
book  has  been  sacrilegiously  treated  by  a  second  binder,  be  it  at 
once  recorded  that  it  was  evidently  but  a  paper-covered  affair 
when  Coleridge  handled  it,  and  has  only  been  bound  once. 
Better  still,  the  binder,  who  placed  the  four  volumes  in  an 
agreeable  polished  brown  calf  binding,  such  as  gentlemen 
early  this  century  affected   for  the    prevailing  tone   of   their 


638  COSMOPOLIS. 

libraries,  has  done  his  work  most  circumspectly.  He  has 
not  cut  the  edges  for  gilding  or  sprinkling,  and  turned  down 
a  leaf  here  and  there  to  prevent  too  much  slaughter  of 
marginalia .  No  !  blessed  man,  in  an  age  and  race  of  butchers! 
— he  has  left  not  only  everv  stroke  and  tail  of  Samuel  Taylor 
Coleridge's  delightful  lucubrations,  but  every  scrap  of  paper 
that  Southey  sent  him,  and,  indeed,  every  scrap  of  every  leaf 
of  paper  forming  the  whole  book.  The  volumes  are  abso- 
lutely uncut  even  at  the  top ;  and  are  in  fact  in  perfect 
preservation. 

"We  have  attributed  the  responsibility  of  the  binding  to 
Southey,  because  it  seems  natural  to  suppose  that  he  would 
respect  so  important  a  book  so  valuably  annotated  by  his 
friend,  and  would  not  content  himself  with  one  of  those  rude 
dress-stuff  coverings  with  which  Mrs.  Southey,  by  aid  of  paste 
and  needle  and  thread,  put  so  many  of  his  books  in  working 
order.  If,  however,  it  was  he  who  had  it  bound — and  we  do 
not  doubt  it,  for  the  binding  was  certainly  done  in  his  life- 
time— he  had  already  pasted  his  beautiful  book-plate,  ffwre  suoy 
on  the  back  of  the  titlepage  of  vol.  i.,  as  the  indented  im- 
pression of  its  outline  on  the  opposite  page  testifies.  This 
book-plate,  as  our  '  Ex-Libris '  readers  are  doubtless  aware, 
has  his  shield  of  arms  in  a  landscape  ;  and  it  was  his  custom 
to  cut  it  to  the  shape  of  the  trees  and  foreground  before 
pasting  it  in,  so  that  it  looks  at  first  sight  as  if  printed  on  the 
verso  of  the  title." 

It  is  not  necessary  at  this  time  to  discuss  the  merits  of 
Flogel  as  a  critic  and  literary  historian,  our  business  being 
with  Coleridge  as  an  annotator.  The  best  way  of  dealing  with 
these  notes  will  be  to  set  out  in  German  and  in  English,  in 
parallel  columns,  so  much  of  Flogel's  text  as  is  necessary  to 
give  the  key  to  what  Coleridge  is  writing  about.  Anything 
which  it  may  be  necessary  for  me  to  add  by  way  of  comment 
or  correction  will  be  set  in  lines  a  quarter  of  an  inch  shorter 
than  usual  ("  indented ").  Thus,  Coleridge's  notes,  being 
set  in  ordinary  Roman  type  and  right  across  the  page,  can  be 
identified  at  a  glance  as  standing  below  and  above  matter 
which  is  set  either  in  double  columns  or  in  short  lines  with  an 


COLERIDGE'S   NOTES   ON    FLOGEL. 


63c 


additional  quarter  of  an  inch  of  left-hand  margin.  Without 
further  prelude,  we  may  proceed  to  the  annotated  passages 
in  the  first  vohime. 


Vol..  I, 

Dieses  Talent  iin  rechten  Verstande 
^jenomraen,  ist  so  selten,  dass  man 
eher  hundert  Schriftsteller  findet,  die 
cine  tragische  Situation  bis  zum  Wci- 
nen  schildern  konnen,  ehe  man  einen 
ftndet,  der  die  wahre  komische  Kraft 
in  seiner  Gcwalt  hat. 


p.  II. 

This  talent,  taken  in  its  proper 
meaning,  is  so  rare  that  it  is  easier 
to  find  a  hundred  writers  capable  of 
presenting  a  tragic  situation  so  as  to 
bring  tears,  than  one  who  has  genuine 
comic  force  at  his  command. 


R.  S. — I  think  the  reverse  holds  good. 


Vol.   I. 

Die  bcsondere  Manier  der  Arbeit 
beym  Handvverk  der  Schuster  scheint 
diese  Leute  zum  diistem  Nachdenken 
und  hypochondrischen  Grubeleien  zu 
stimmen.  . .  Hierzu  kommt  noch,  dass 
zu  ibrem  Handwerk  wenig  Kenntnisse 
gehoren  —  kommt  nun  ein  fahiger 
Kopf  dahin,  so  finden  seine  Talente 
wenig  Nahrung  ;  daher  sucht  er 
fremde  Gegenstande. 


p.  261. 

The  peculiar  manner  of  work  in 
the  shoemaker's  craft  seems  to  incline 
these  people  to  gloomy  contemplation 
and  hypochondriacal  speculations. .  .  . 
To  this  is  added  the  fact  that  their 
employment  calls  for  little  informa- 
tion, so  that  when  a  capable  man  is 
engaged  in  it,  his  faculties  find  slight 
nourishment  ;  he,  therefore,  looks 
abroad  for  other  objects. 


S.  T.  C. — To  this  may  be  added,  that  there  are  more  shoe- 
makers than  any  other  handicraftsmen.  Next  in  number  are 
the  Taylors  :  and  these  have  been,  perhaps,  proportionably 
prolific  of  Geniuses,  Enthusiasts,  Fanatics,  &c. 


Vol.  I. 

Derjenige,  welcher  den  Ewigen 
Juden  zum  erstenmal  in  die  Welt  ge- 
schickt,  hat  ihn  vielleicht  nicht  ohne 
Ursache  zu  einem  Schuhmacher  ge- 
macht.  Wie  viel  Larmen  der  bekannte 
Jakob  Bohm  erreget,  braucht  allhier 
nicht  erst  crzahlt  zu  werden  ...  so 
waren  die  Vornehmsten  in  der  Qua- 
kerischen  Gemeinde  zu  Danzig  zwei 
Schuster. 


p.  262. 

He  who  first  sent  the  Wandering 
Jew  into  the  world  did  not,  perhaps, 
without  reason  make  him  a  shoe- 
maker. Of  the  stir  made  by  the  well- 
known  Jacob  Bohm  w^e  need  not  here 
make  mention  .  .  .  two  shoemakers 
were  the  most  eminent  men  of  the 
Quaker  community  in  Danzig. 


S.  T.  C. — Hans   Sachs.     George   Fox,  the  Founder  of  the 
Quakers.     Bloomfield.     Gifford. 


Vol.  I. 
Daher  sagt  Aristoteles  ausdriicklich  : 
das  lambische  Sylbenmaass  w^urde  als 
das  geschickteste  zu  Schmahliedern 
beliebt,  und  erhielt  den  Namen  der 
ambischen  Versart,  weil  man  bey 
den  Schmahliedern  sich  dieses  Sylben- 
maasses  bediente. 


p.  334- 

Aristotle  therefore  expressly  says  : 
the  iambic  metre  was  chosen  as  the 
most  suitable  to  invective  poetry  and 
received  the  name  of  iambic  verse  be- 
cause in  invective  poetry  this  metre 
was  employed, 


640  COSMOPOLIS. 

R.  S.- -For  this  same  reason  why  Iambics  were  preferred— 
should  a  mixt  measure  like  the  hexameter  seem  suited  to  our 
an^uage. 

This  note  derives  a  peculiar  interest  from  the  fact  that 
Southey  had  a  sufficiently  strong  and  crescent  courage  in 
the  opinion  expressed  to  write  ultimately  a  poem  in 
twelve  books  in  hexameters — to  wit  that  "  Vision  of  Judg- 
ment," published  in  1821,  w^hich  gave  rise  to  Byron's 
inimitable  poem  of  the  same  name. 

C'olcridjLic  had  not  pierced  far  into  the  **  bowels"  ot 
Flogel's  next  volume  before  he  found  ;^omething  on  which 
to  exercise  his  subtlety  as  well  as  his  wit.  Flogel  gives  in 
liis  text  in  German,  a  celebrated  wot  of  Pollio's  ;  and 
below  it,  more  5//0,  he  sets  a  footnote  quoting  the  original 
Latin.  Coleridge  regards  the  German  version  as  an 
example  of  how  not  to  do  it,  and  apparently  thinks 
Flogel  ought  to  have  preserved  the  word-play  on  **scribere" 
and  "  proscribere "  by  employing  the  German  words 
*'schreiben"  and  '^  verschreiben."  Here  are  Flogel's  text 
and  note  and  Coleridge's  comment  :  the  reader  must 
judge  between  them  : — 

Vol.  II.;  p.  4. 

I)er    Kaiser    Auj^ustus    spottetc    in  In  verses  of  this  kind  the  Emperor 

solchen  Versen   des  Pollio  ;  der  aber  Augustus  ridiculed  Pollio,  whose  only 

waiter  nichts  anlwortele,  als  :  ich  mag  »'<?ply»  however,   was  :    **  I    must  not 

gcgen  den  nicht  schreiben,  der  mich  write  anything  against    him  who  can 

verbannen  kann.  (d)  Macrob.  Saturnal.  banish  me." 
Lib.  II.,  c.  4.     Xon  est  facile  in  eum 
scribere,  qui  potest  proscribere. 

S.  T.  C. — N.B.  A  model,  un  morceau  precieux,  of  flat 
Translation,  or  rather  an  instructive  example  how  to  traduce  2Ln 
Author — as  the  Dutch  would  say,  the  meaning  is  overset  in 
Teutch  !  der  mich  (oder  mein  Leben)  verschreiben  kann. 

In  his  next  note  he  is  funnier  still  at  Flogel's  expense  : — 

Vol.  II.  ;  p.  12. 

Horaz  tadelt  auch  die  Prahlerei  an  Horace  blames  also  his  boastfulness 

ihm  (Lucilius),  dass  er  sich  geriihmt  in    priding    himself  that,    extempore, 

bald  aus  dem  Stegereif  und  ohn  ein  without  stretching  a  leg,  he  exultantly 

Bein  zu  strecken,  Zween  Bogen  voller  hatched  two  sheets  full  of  nothing. 
Xichts  mit  Jauchzen  auszuhecken. 

S.  T.  C. — Another  specimen  of  Traduction  !  And  mark  the 
exquisite  congruity  of  the  metaphor  in  the  German  "  Bald  aus 


colkridge's  notks  on  FLOGKI,.  64T 

ilein  Sfegereif]  und  ohn  ein  Bein  zii  sirecketif  Ziceen  Bogen  voller 
Nichts  mit  Jauchzen  auszuhecken**  Bravo  ! — Verse  too  :  yea, 
Rhvmes  ! 

At  this  point  Flo^el  treats  the  qiiesticMi  whether  the 
Romans  derived  their  satire  from  the  Greeks  or  produced 
it  independently.  He  brings  forward  and  examines  very 
briefly  the  most  authoritative  opinions  on  the  subject,  on 
both  sides  ;  but  is  altogether  inconclusive,  leaving  the 
topic  with  an  oracular  statement  that  the  point  had  not  up 
to  that  time  been  decisively  or  satisfactorily  elucidated. 
Coleridge,  from  the  tcnour  of  his  notes,  seems  to  have 
thought  otherwise.  In  the  following  passage  he  marks  the 
word  "zuweilen"  for  insertion  in  a  parenthesis  before 
**  Lucilius  ;"  and  then  he  notes  in  the  bottom  margins  his 
reasons  for  so  doing  : — 

Vol..  II. :  pp.  16,  17. 

Die    (fiicclicn    brauchten    in    ihrcn  The   (irccks   in   tiicir  satyric    plays 

siitirischcn  Schauspielen  gemeiniglich  commonly   used     iambic  or    trochaic 

jambische  odcr  tr«>chaischc  V'eise,  die  ver-^e,   but   the   Latins   heroic,   except 

Latciner  aber  heroische,  ausgenninmen  Kmiiu?  and  Lucilius. 
Knnius  und  Lucilius. 

S.  T.  C.  -For  out  of  thirty  Books  of  Satires  by  Lucilius 
twenty-one  were  in  heroic,  i.e.  hexameter,  Verse.  But  the 
whole  controversy  is  too  silly  to  deserve  a  critique.  Who  in  his 
senses  ever  doubted  that  the  Greeks,  or  indeed  that  any  other 
nation,  had  satirical  Poems,  both  dramatic  and  undramatic  ? 
Surely,  neither  Horace  or  Quintilian.  .  And  what  scholar 
will  not  rest  satisfied  with  their  joint  assertion,  that  the 
particular  Form  of  Poetry,  called  Satire,  did  not  exist  among 
the  Greeks.  Lampoons  in  abundance,  but  no  Poem  formed 
on  the  same  plan  as  Juvenal's,  &c. 

Vol.  II. ;  p.  17. 

Satyra  autcm  dicta,  sivea  Satyris. . .  .  But  it  is  called  Satire  either  from 

sive  a  Satyra  lance.  .  .  .  vel  a  copia  et  the  Satyrs.  ...  or  from  the  Satyric 
saturitate.  dish.  ...  or  from  plenty  and  satiety. 

S.  T.  C. — Perhaps,  post-prandial,  or  after-dinner  Verses  - 
perhaps  intentionally  a  title  equivocal  or  rather  multivocal 
was  given  :  because  the  Poem  comprized  all  three,  and  the 
word  might  mean  all  3, 


642  COSMOPOLIS. 

Coleridge'*^  next  note  is  written  under  the  passages  on 
pages  t8  and  iq,  numbered  by  Flogel  3  and  4  in  the 
sections  from  which  the  following  extract  is  taken  ;  but  it 
refers  more  or  less  to  the  whole  substance  of  pages  12 
to  21. 

Vol.  I.  ;  pp.   17-19. 

Die    Gricclien    hattcn    1.)     Epische  The  Greeks  had  (i)  epic  satires  .  . 

Satiren  ...  2.)  Die  lyrische  Satire  cles  (2)    Horace   undoubtedly   imitated,    in 

Archilochus    hat      Horaz    in   einigen  some  of  his  odes  and  epodes,  the  lyrical 

seiner    Oden    und  Kpoden    unstreitij^  satire    of    Archilochus    ...  (3)    The 

nachgcahmt   .     .     .    3.)    Dramatische  Greeks    had    in    their    satyric    plays 

Satire  hatten    die   Griechen  in  ihren  dramatic     satires  ...  {4)     Had    tht* 

satirischen  Schauspielen  .  .  .  4'.)  Hatten  Greeks  didactic  satires  as  well  ? 
die  (iriechen  auch  didnktische  Satire  .' 

S.  T.  C. — We  have  in  our  own  language  a  case  in  point, 
completely  conclusive  of  the  Question. — Chaucer  is  full  of 
exquisite  Satyr.  "Pierce  Plowman"  is  a  didactic  Satires 
StWo^--  Dramatic  Satires,  as  the  four  Ps  and  fifty  others — 
Lampoons  of  all  kinds  in  old  Skelton — and  yet,  notwith- 
standing all  this,  Donne  and  Hall  called  themselves  and  ;ire 
admitted  bv  all  their  Posterity  to  have  been  the  first  writers 
of  Satires  in  English. 

The  conclusion,  then,  of  the  whole  matter  is  that,  as  our 
olden  literature  was  rich  in  the  spirit  of  satire,  and  the 
seventeenth  century  men  were  the  first  to  write  what  we 
now  understand  as  "  satires,"  so  in  the  classical  literatures, 
the  Greeks  had  the  thing  satire  in  many  forms,  but  it  w^s 
reserved  for  the  Romans  to  develope  the  form  and  scheme 
for  poems  of  the  Juvenalian  type  which  have  arrogated 
the  name  of  ''satires."  Flogel's  next  section  introduces 
Horace  as  a  satirist. 

Vol.   11.  ;  pp.  24,  25. 

Kr    [Horaz]    hat    die      Satire    des  He  [Horace]  polished  and  ennobled 

Lucils  verfeinert  und  veredell ;  seine  the  satire  of  Lucilius  ;  his  real  change 

wesentliche      Veranderung      bestand  was  that  he  gave  to  satire   a  positive 

darjn,  dass  er  der  Satire  ein  gewisscs  and  definite  metre,  vi/..  the  heroic, 
bestimmtes  Sylbenmaass,  niimlich  das 
heroische  gab. 

S.  T.  C. — Whoo  !  had  not  Lucilius  done  this  in  twenty-one 
books  out  of  thirty  ? — and  are  not  many  of  Horace's  Epodes 
Iambic  and  Lyric  Satires  ?  No  !  Horace  invented  a  style 
and   metre,  ^'sermoni  propiora,"  of   which    no    Imitation   is 


COLERIDGE'S  NOTES   ON    FL6GEL. 


643 


extant.  The  style  of  Persius  is  half  sophistic,  /.<?•  abrupt, 
jagged,  thorny ;  and  half  declamatory — :  and  the  metre 
corresponds.  Juvenal  again  is  altogether  rhetorical,  a  flow  of 
impassioned  Declamation  :  and  the  correspondent  metre  is  as 
unlike  Persius,  and  Horace,  as  their  schemes  of  metre  are 
unlike  each  other.  All  three  wrote  Hexameters,  it  is  true  ; 
and  so  did  Shakespeare,  Milton,  and  Young  all  three  write 
blank  Verse  in  lines  of  ten  Syllables  !  But  O  the  asinine 
luxuriance  of  ear  that  does  not  perceive  that  they  are  three 
perfectly  distinct  and  different  forms  of  metre  and  rhythm. 
Perhaps,  the  Horatian  Hexameter  may  be  compared  to  the 
blank  Verse  of  Massinger,  the  Persian  to  that  of  Young,  the 

Juvenalian  to  Cowper's. 

• 

The  historian  mentions  on  page  25  that  the  Horatian 
satires  contained  improprieties  which  Quintilian,  even  at 
that  time,  did  not  care  to  explain  ;  and  he  cites  the 
following  passage,  to  be  duly  pounced  on  by  Coleridge, 
though  it  is  unobtinisively  stowed  away  in  a  footnote  : — 

Quintil.  Lib.  i.  c.  13.     Horatiuin  in  Quintilian   i.  13.     In  certain  things 

quibusdam  nolim  interpretari.  I  prefer  not  to  explain  Horace. 

S.  T.  C. —  But  does  Q.  here  refer  to  the  Satyrs  of  Horace  ? 
Why  not  to  his  Epodes  ?  1 

Vol.  II, ;  pp.  26,  27. 


Der  Ausdruck  in  seinen  Satiren  ist 
nicht  hoch,  wie  in  den  Oden,  sondern 
deutlich  und  natiirlich,  wie  man  im 
i;^emeinen  Leben  redet ;  welches 
Scaliger.  der  den  Juvenal  iiber  alles 
erhebt,  unbilliger  V^^eise  ^'or  einen 
Kehler  ausgiebt,  dass  viel  mehr  Horaz 
aus  Vorsatz  und  Klugheit  that.  Daher 
will  or  auch  in  dieser  Absicht  nicht 
einmal  unter  die  Dichter  gezahll 
wcrden  und  fragt  noch,  ob  die  Satire 
cin  wirkliches  Gedicht  sei.  Vielleicht 
kam  es  ihm  schwer  an,  sich  so  zu  den 
Bcgriffen  und  dem  Ausdruck  des  ge- 
ineinen  Lebens  herabzulassen,umnicht 
durch  UnverstsUidlichkeit  den  Zweck 
der  Sittenbesserung  zu  verlieren  : 
da  cr  an  der  Ode  des  hohen  poetischen 
Kluges  gewohnt  war.  Doch  er 
erniedrigt  sich  niemals  so  tief,  dass 
sein  Ausdruck  ins  Pobelhafte  fallt. 
Y^l*,  IX. — vo.  XXVII. 


The  language  in  his  Satires  is  not 
lofty,  as  in  the  Odes,  but  plain  and 
natural,  such  as  we  use  in  ordinary 
life  ;  which  Scaliger,  who  sets  Juvenal 
above  all  else,  unjustly  pronounces  a 
fault,  since  Horace  did  it  rather  on 
purpose  and  for  prudence  sake.  He 
therefore,  with  this  design,  was  unwill- 
ing even  to  be  counted  among  poets  ; 
and  asks  further  whether  satire  is 
really  poetry.  Perhaps  it  was  difificull 
for  him  to  come  down  to  the  ideas  and 
expressions  of  common  life  so  as  not, 
through  incomprehensibility,  to  miss 
his  object  of  moral  improvement  ;  for 
in  the  ode  he  was  accustomed  to  high 
poetic  flights.  But  he  never  demeans 
himself  so  far  as  to  allow  his  cxpre*^- 
sion  to  become icommon. 


\) 


644  COSMOPOLIS. 

To  support  the  statement  that  Horace  was  unwilling  to 
be  counted  among  the  poets,  Flogel  cites  the  following 
passage  from  Horace  (Book  I.,  Satire  4,  v.  39)  : — 

Primiim  ego  me  illorum  dederim  quibus  esse  poctas 
Excerpam  numero  ;  neque  cnira  concludcrc  versuni 
Dixeris  esse  satis  :  neque  si  qnis  scribat,  uti  nos. 
Sermoni  propiora,  putcs  hunc  esse  poctam. 

S.  T.  C. — Horace's  satires  alone  would  suffice  to  prove  that 
the  Romans  did  not  recite  Verses  by  scansion — else,  how 
could  they  be  distinguished  so  widely  from  the  more  poetic 
Hexameter.  Read  scanningly  ;  and  you  will  find  it  difficult  to 
distinguish  Virgil  from  Ovid — not  to  speak  of  the  destruction 
of  all  appropriate  emphasis.  But  this  is  a  most  obscure 
Subject.  I  incline  to  the  opinion,  that  the  mode  of  reading 
varied  with  the  nature  of  the  Poem  :  and  that  in  some,  as  the 
Lyric  for  instance,  the  metre  was  more  humoured  than  in 
others  (even  ^s  in  the  anapestic  and  the  Hudibrastic)  but  in 
none  wholly  per  scansionew. 

Vol.  II.  ;  p.  29. 

Noch  seltsamcr  ist  der  Kinfal!  des  Still  stranger  is  the  notion  of  the 

sonst  so  gelehrten  Erasmus.  .  .  Wenn  otherwise  so  learned    Erasmus.  .   .   . 

er  an  dem  Horaz  auszusetzen  scheint,  When  he  appears  to  find  fault  with 

C8  habe  seine  Schrcibart  gar  nicht  die  Horace  because  his  style  was  not  at  all 

Gestalt  und  das  .\nsehen  der  Schreibart  the    form  and  appearance    of  that  of 

des  Cicero.  Cicero. 

S.  T.  C. — But  was  not  this  Irony  ?  Surely.  It  was  the  ver>- 
purpose  of  Erasmus  to  ridicule  the  Pedants,  w^ho  would 
admit  no  style  as  good  which  was  not  Ciceronian.  Even  as 
if  I  should  with  mock  gravity,  and  in  the  character  of  a 
modern  Reviewer,  speak  of  Butler  as  altogether  un-Miltonic  in 
his  metre  and  diction. 

Coleridge  substitutes  in  the  margin  of  page  37  "  at "  for 
"et"  in  a  Latin  quotation  from  Erasmus  ;  and  at  page 
113,  in  the  line,  "  Et  rura  et  silv?e  infames,  urbs  quoque 
lupanar,"  he  underlines  the  word  "  quoque,"  marks  the 
"o"  thus,  '*6/'  and  makes  the  marginal  query  "quaeque"? 
Otherwise  we  have  no  more  notes  from  him  till  we 
reach  page  147.  There  Flogel  is  dealing  with  the 
crapulous  Mantuan   satirist  Leiio  Capilupi  (who  di^  in 


COLERIDGE'S  NOTES  ON   FL6GEL.  645 

1560) ;    and  an   intolerable   amount  of  sack   should,  for 
purposes  of  full  illustration,  accompany  Coleridge's  morsel 
of  bread. 
Thus  Flogel :— 

Vol.  II.  ;  p.  147. 

Dalier    weiss   ich    nicht,    wie    Tos-  I   know   not,   Ihcrcfore,  how    Tos- 

canus,  der  diesc  Satire  drucken  licss.  canus,  who  printed  this  satire,  can  say 

sagen  kann,  er  hiitte  alles  UnzUchtige  that  he  had   omitted    everything    in- 

herausgeworfen,    iind     nichts     darin  decent,  and  had  retained  nothing  that 

gelassen,  was  fronimen  und  ehrbaren  to  pure  and  modest  ears  could  seem 

Ohren  unanstiindig  wiire.  improper. 

And  then  he  cites  in  a  footnote  Capilupi's  poem,  "  The 
Satire  against  Women,"  from  which  he  gives  "one 
example  only,  as  to  whether  his  judgment  is  false." 
This  example,  however,  we  must  take  the  liberty  of 
omitting  in  deference  to  latter-day  susceptibilities,  and 
pass  on  to  Coleridge's  stricture. 

S.  T.  C. — It  is  plain  that  Flogel  would  not  have  done  what 
Toscanus  did,  however  imperfectly  :  for  he  has  taken  care  to 
give  as  much  and  wide  Publicity,  as  in  him  lay,  to  the  precious 
Gleanings  of  the  Filth-harvest.  The  truth  is,  that  such  passages 
can  injure  no  one's  morals.  If  the  Reader's  mind  is  tolerably 
pure,  they  can  only  affect  his  Stomach  :  if  capable  of  deriving 
pleasure  from  the  Perusal,  why  what  harm  does  a  Dung-yard 
do  the  Hog,  already  coated  with  filth  ? 

The  next  passage  upon  which  our  trenchant  annotator 
falls  relates  to  Pietro  Paolo  Vergerio  (who  died  in  1565) : — 

Vol.  II.  ;    p.  161. 

Ich  will  niu*  cine  einzigeStelle  in  der  I    will   quote  in    the   note  a  single 

Anmerkung  anfiihren,  woraus  man  die  passage,  from  which  we  judge  of  the 

Hcftigkeit  seiner  Schreibart  beurtheilen  vehemence  of  his  style.j 

kann  V  y  -  -  -  What,  indeed,  is   there    that 

V  ...Quis  vero    dicendus    fuerit    in-  may  be  called  an  intolerable  error,  an 

tolerabilis  error,  quae  haeresis  infanda,  abominable  heresy,  if  not  such  a  one 

si  ea  non  est,  qua;  Filii  Dei,  Domini  as    attributes    to    the  most    precious 

nostri     Jesu      Christi,    prseciosissima  wounds  of  the  Son  of  God,  our  Lord 

vulnera  habet  eodem  numero  et  loco,  Jesus   Christ,  the  same    number    and 

quo  fabulosa  et  male  dicta  Francisci  place  as  to  the  fabulous  and  accursed 

stigmata  ?    Proh,  inauditam    blasphe-  stigmata  of  Francis  ?    Ah  !  unheard-of 

miam  ac  scelus  !  blasphemy  and  sin  ! 

S.  T.  C. — Surely,  no  true  Christiatiy  among  the  Protestants 
at  least,  will  deem  this  passage  vehement  beyond  the  occasion 


646  COSMOPOLIS. 

The   Liber  Conforniitatum   in   its  original  form   was   indeed 
*'  inaudita  Blasphemia  ac  Scelus." 

The  next  note  relates  to  Matthias  Francowitz,  also  called 
Flaccus  Illyricus,  who  died  in  1575. 

Vol.  II. :  p.  189. 

Sehr   iinrecht   war  cs,   dass  er  den  He  made  a   great  mistake  in  assert- 

.t^cfilhrlichcn  Satz  behauptete,  es  miivss-  ing  the  dangerous  principle  that  riilci- 

ten  die  Fiirsten  durch  die  Furcht  der  must  be  kept   in  awe  by  the  fear  i^ 

EmpOrungen    in    Ehrfurcht    jrehalten  insurrection, 
werden. 

S.  T.  C. — Did  Fl[accus]  Ill[yricus]  mean  more  by  this  than 
the  Legislature  of  G.  Britain  when  it  made  it  treason  to  the 
State  to  assert  unconditionally  the  criminality  of  all  resistance, 
or  the  duty  of  passive  Obedience  to  the  first  magistrate  :  let 
him  tyrannize  as  he  would  ? 

Coleridge  seems  to  have  found  no  further  topic  of 
remark  until  he  reached  the  meagre  account  of  Sir 
Thomas  More  ;  and  even  then  his  note  calls  forth  regret ; 
for  it  is  mere  scholarliness,  with  nothing  luminous  about 
More. 

Vol.  II.  ;  pp.  33^337. 

Allein  er  beschrieb  einen  Staat,  der  But  his  [Sir  T.  More's]  description 

nirgends  existirte,  welches  auch   der  was  that  of  a. state  that  nowhere  existed. 

Xame  Utopia  anzeigt,  welches  eigent-  as  the  name  itself,   Utopia,   indicato, 

lich  Nirgendsheim  (vom  Griechischen  which    really     means     Xowhereland 

oiJitc)  bedeutet.  (from  the  Greek  oithiQ.) 

S.  T.  C. — I  have  suspected  that  Flogel  quotes  Greek  without 
understanding  it.  For  oi;8e£9,  I  guess,  and  totto?  {no  place) 
must  have  been  intend [ed]  ;  but  surely  evroTria  (regio  beaia)  is 
the  obvious  etymology. 

Vol.  II.  ;  p.  346. 

Ifi^natius  his  Conclave,  &'c.,  &'c.     By 
John  Donne. 

S.  T.  C. — I  believe  that  this  work  is  falsely  attributed  to 
Donne. 

The  books  of  reference,  however,  including  the  British 
Museum  Catalogue  and  the  "  Dictionary  of  National 
Biography,"  still  ascribe  it  to  him,  as  do  also  Dr.  A.  B. 
Grosart  in  his  edition  of  Donne's  Poems  and  Dr. 
Augustus  Jessopp  in  his  Life  of  Donne,  published  only 
last  year. 


COLERIDGE'S   NOTES   ON    KLOGEL.  647 

Vol.  II.  ;  p.  ;>7J. 

Dieses     au&serordentliche     Frauen-  This  remarkable  woman  [Miss  Man- 

zimmer  [Miss  Manley]  wurde  auf  der  ley]  was  born  in  the  Isle  of  Hampshire, 

Iiisel    Hampshire    geboren,     wo   ihr  where  her  father,  Roger  Manley,  was 

Vater  Roger  Manley,  Gouverneur  war.  Governor. 

S.  T.  C. — Ods  bods  !     Where  may  the  Island  of  Hampshire 
lie? 

The  answer,  of  course,  is  "  Across  the  Solent."  The  ex- 
pression, though  inexact,  is  not  misleading.  No  one  would 
seriously  doubt  that  Flogel  meant  to  record  that  Mrs.  de 
la  Rivifere  Manley,  novelist,  dramatist,  verse-writer  (1672- 
1724),  was  the  daughter  of  Sir  Roger  Manley,  Governor 
of  the  Isle  of  Wight.  Coleridge  can  hardly  have  forgotten 
that  the  island  was  a  part  of  the  southern  division  of 
Hampshire  ;  and  on  the  next  page  but  one  he  might  have 
found  evidence  that  poor  Flogel  had  been  digging  in  a 
Professor  Schmits's  "  Lesebuch  fiir  Frauenzimmer."  He- 
might  well  be  pardoned  for  not  getting  up  at  first  hand  a 
knowledge  of  the  proprieties  of  English  geographical 
terminology  for  the  sake  of  the  authoress  of  that 
*'  Atalantis,"  which  Warburton  describes  as  written  "  by  a 
woman  full  of  Court  and  party  scandals,  and  in  a  loose 
effeminacy  of  style  and  sentiment,  which  well  suited  the 
debauched  taste  of  the  better  vulgar." 

Vol.  II.  ;  p.  375- 
Ki    [Defoe]  starb  in  seinem  Hause  He    [Defoe J   died   in   his  house  at 

/u  Iszigton  [sic]  1731,  nachdcm  er  Iszigton  [sic]  in  1731,  after  having 
bestandig  ein  gutes  Auskommen  steadily  enjoyed  a  good  competency. . . 
genossen.   .   .   . 

S.  T.  C. — Altogether  mistaken.     He  was  in   needy  circum- 
stances, a  bankrupt,  and  wrote  for  his  Bread. 

Coleridge's  summary  responds  as  nearly  as  need  be  to 
the  results  of  another  eighty  years'  sifting  of  evidence 
about  Defoe.  The  phrase  "  after  having  steadily  enjoyed 
a  good  competency "  is  indeed  wide  of  the  mark ;  for 
nothing  could  be  less  steady  than  the  career  of  Defoe  ; 
and  there  is  good  reason  to  think  that,  at  the  time  of  his 
death,  he  was  keeping  out  of  the  way  of  creditors.  Apart 
from  this,  Flogel's  brief  statement  is  as  full  of  errors  as 
an  egg  is  of  meat.  What  "  Iszigton  "  may  mean,  one 
may  guess,  but  no  more.     Defoe  had  an  estate  at  New- 


648  COSMOPOLIS. 

ington  ;  and  Flogel's  wondrous  word  may  be  a  mis- 
transcription of  "  Newington."  Not  that  Defoe  died 
there ;  for  it  was  at  a  lodging  in  Ropemaker's  Alley, 
Moorfields,  that  the  author  of  "  Robinson  Crusoe " 
breathed  his  last.  Concerning  De  Foe  and  the  wretched 
poetaster  John  Tutchin,  Flogel  quotes  the  second  book 
of  *'The  Dunciad/'  and  so  calls  forth  S.  T.   C.'s  wrath 

against  Pope  : — 

Vol.  U.  ;  p.  376. 

Sie  sind  beide  in  der  Dunciade  des  They  are  both  immortalised   in  the 

Pope   in  folgenden   Versen    verewigt  following  verses  of  Pope's  "  Dunciad  "  : 

worden :    Ohne    Ohren    stand    hoch  Earless  on  high,  stood  unabashed  Dc 

unverschamt    de     Foe,     und     unten  Foe, 

Tutchin   mit  entblossten  Riicken,  der  And  Tutchin  flagrant  from  the  scourge 

noch  von  der  Geissel  roth  war.  below. 

S.  T.  C.  -Mean  Brute  was  Pope  ! 

Vol.  II.  ;  p.  387. 

Die   zwei    metallnen    Statiien    der  The  two  metal  statues  of  raging  and 

rasenden  und  melancholischen  Thor-  of    melancholy  madness  ...  at  the 

hcit   .   .  an  dem  Vordergebiiude  Bed-  Front  of  Bedlam.    .   .   . 
lams.   .    .   . 

R.  S. — stone  they  are. 

This  point  can  still  be  verified  by  the  curious  who  may 
choose  to  visit  them  at  the  South  Kensington  Museum. 
These  once  over-esteemed  statues,  from  the  hand  of 
Colley  Cibber's  father,  were  erected  over  the  entrance 
gate  of  Bethlehem  Hospital  in  Moor  P'ields  in  1680. 
They  were  said  to  be  portraits  of  two  inmates  of  the 
Asylum,  one  of  whom  had  been  Cromwell's  porter.  Pope 
chose  to  emphasize  their  relationship  to  the  laureate 
Cibber  thus: — 

Where  o'er  the  gates,  by  his  famed  fathers  hand, 
Great  Cibber's  brazen  brainless  brothers  stand. 

Probably  he  had  not  seen  them  ;  for  "  brazen  "  seems  to 
have  been  used  literally ;  and  he  would  hardly  have 
chosen  the  verb  "stand"  to  describe  the  situation  of 
figures  familiar  to  his  vision  i\s  reclining. 

H.  Buxton  Forman. 

(To  be  conii titled.) 


^T"> 


FHK    LITERARY    MOVEMENT    IN 

GERMANY/ 


FICTION. 

In  the  eighteen  months  which  hiive  elapsed  since  I  last  dis- 
cussed German  fiction  in  these  pages,  there  have  been  few 
fresh  developments  to  record,  few  of  those  outstanding  events 
upon  which  a  chronicler,  who  must  restrict  himself  to  general 
features,  is  able  to  seize.  Here  and  there  a  young  writer  of 
more  or  less  promise  has  entered  the  literary  arena  with  a 
new  device  upon  his  shield ;  another,  whom  "the  critical 
world  had  greeted  with  a  friendly  word,  has  puffed  out, 
showing  that  there  was,  after  all,  nothing  of  the  poet  in  him, 
that  he  was  merely  un  hoinmc  inoyen  sensnd  whose  talent  for 
story-telling  was  exhausted  in  the  one  novel  which  everyone 
is  supposed  to  have  it  in  his  power  to  write  ;  and  in  the  back- 
ground, the  main  phalanx  of  older  writers,  with  reputations 
behind  them,  moves  steadily  along  on  the  familiar  lines.  We 
can  point  to  no  general  participation  of  the  novel  in  the 
literary  movement ;  it  does  not,  at  present,  lie  in  the  main 
current  of  German  literary  activity.  It  is,  of  course,  possible, 
by  selecting  our  reading,  to  prove  anything  ;  but,  if  all  the 
German  fiction  of  the  year,  which  has  any  claim  to  be  re- 
garded as  literature,  is  honestly  passed  in  review,  it  would  be 
puzzling  to  say  whither  it  is  tending,  or  what  its  dominant 
features  are.  The  novel  in  Germany,  taken  as  a  whole,  repre- 
sents rather  the  variety  and  diversity  of  aims  than  the  artistic 
aspirations  of  the  moment,  which  is  only  another  way  of 
saying  that  it  is  not  the  most  vital  form  of  literary  art.  To 
discover  the  mood  at  present  uppermost  in  literary  France, 
we  turn  to  the  novels  of  the  year  ;  similarly,  in   Italy,  ideas 

*  The  last  article  on   ''Current  German  Literature "  appeare<l  in  CosMoi^OLls 
for  Septemlxrr,  i897- 


650  COSMOPOLIS. 

find  their  first  expression  in  fiction,  and  gradually  filter  down 
to  the  stage  ;  but,  in  the  case  of  Germany,  we  might  be  led 
far  astray  if  we  attempted  to  draw  general  conclusions  from 
her  fiction.  To  know  what  is  most  vital  in  the  work  and 
thought  of  young  Germany  we  must  spend  our  evenings  in  the 
theatre. 

Two  of  the  most  depressing  features  in  fiction  at  the  present 
moment  are  the  predominance  of  the  amateur  and  the  reduc- 
tion of  novel-writing  to  a  business.     To  what  extent  do  these 
two  symptoms  affect  contemporary  German  fiction  ?    A  casual 
reader  of  German  books  might  come  to  the  conclusion  that 
the  amateur  is  less  rampant  in  the  German  world  of  letters  than 
in  our  own  ;  and  there  is  some  reason  for  this  impression.   But 
the  amateur  is  not  so  rare  as  he  seems  at  first  glance  ;  it  is 
only  that  Germany,  in  her  old-world  conservatism,  still  draws 
a  tolerably  fast  line  between  the  makers  of  literature  on  the 
one  hand, -and  the  amateurs  on  the  other.     Her  temple  of 
literature  is  still  surrounded  by  a  ring  of  fire  which  keeps  out 
the  incompetent  intruder  ;  while  in  democratic  England  and 
America  the  fire  burns  low,  and  virtually  offers  less  obstacle  to 
the  smart  journalist    than  to  the    genuine    poet.     With  the 
dethronement  of  the  literary  critic  by  the  journalist — one  of 
the  most  striking  changes  that  has  come  over  the  Anglo-Saxon 
world  of  letters  since  Matthew  Arnold's  death — the  old  guiding 
stars  of  the   English    novel  have  become  obscured,  and  the 
amateur  hiis  triumphed.     It  is  one  of   the   good    features  of 
Continental  literatures  that,  in  this  respect,  they  lag  fifty  yearsi 
behind  us.     Criticism  is  still  a  power  to  be  reckoned  with  ;  it 
is  still  in  the  hands  of  "specialists"  in  the  best  sense  of  that 
much -abused  word,  of  critics  of  special  training  who,  amidst 
the  caprices  of  popular  taste,  keep  literature  upon  the  straight 
path.     Behind  each  of  the  chief  Continental  literatures  there 
is  a   body   of    solid    criticism   which   maintains   the    barrier 
between    ephemeral    books   of    entertainment    and    genuine 
literature,    and    keeps   the     brilliant    amateur    in    his  place. 
Thus,  in  discussing  a  Continental  literature,  the  amateur  may 
be  ignored.     He  exists,  he  has  his  readers  and  even  his  little 
circle  of  admirers,  but  he  is  not  taken  seriously  as  a-  man  of 
letters. 


THE   LITERARY   MOVEMENT   IN   GERMANY.  65 1 

It  is,  unfortunately,  not  possible  in  a  survey  of  German 
fiction,  to  ignore  so  lightly  the  second  symptom,  the  inroads  of 
the  commercial  spirit.  The  novel  is,  of  course,  no  more  of  a 
business  product  in  Germany  than  anywhere  else  at  the  present 
moment,  but  the  German  is  not  skilful  at  combining  art  and 
business.  As  soon  as  he  ceases  to  be  the  artist  sans  reproche^ 
and  hankers  after  the  fleshpots  of  Egypt,  it  becomes  ap- 
parent in  his  work.  In  the  writings  of  not  a  few  of  the  best 
accredited  German  novelists  of  the  day  there  is  something 
disagreeably  gewerbsmdssig.  Their  books  leave  the  impression 
that,  in  place  of  being  the  result  of  an  inward  artistic  neces- 
sity, they  are  purely  commercial  productions,  undertaken  in 
response  to  the  invitations  of  editors  and  publishers.  Thus,  if 
in  my  present  survey  I  seem  unduly  to  neglect  familiar  names, 
it  is  from  no  desire  to  wander  in  untrodden  paths,  but  merely 
because  there  is  less  to  say  about  the  old  writers  than 
the  new. 

With  a  clockwork  regularity,  Georg  Ebers  publishes  each 
Christmas  a  new  romance.  This  year  he  has  returned  to  the 
Egyptian  novel,  the  field  where  he  won  his  spurs,  and  most 
readers,  with  a  friendly  recollection  of  "  Die  agyptische 
Konigstochter,"  will,  I  think,  find  "Arachne"  (Stuttgart  : 
Deutsche  Verlagsanstalt)  a  more  congenial  story  than  its 
immediate  predecessors.  But  Ebers'  yearly  contribution  to 
the  German-book  market  is  a  modest  one,  compared  with  that 
of  Wilhelm  Jensen  ;  in  the  course  of  the  past  twelve  months 
the  latter  has  published  two  long  novels  and  a  shorter  story. 
Notwithstanding  Jensen's  respected  position  in  the  German 
literary  world,  I  doubt  if  his  books  find  many  readers  or  any 
admirers  outside  of  Germany;  indeed,  it  is  often  surprising 
that  they  are  accepted  at  home  with  so  few  murmurs  of  dis- 
approval. If  the  German  novel  has  fallen  into  evil  repute 
with  us,  books  on  the  lines  of  Jensen's  are  to  blame  for  it. 
There  are,  I  am  aware  of  it,  admirers  of  this  novelist,  who 
are  prepared  to  claim  that  he  alone  of  contemporary  writers 
upholds  the  standard  of  the  German  national  novel,  the  type 
of  romance  that  rose  to  "  Wilhelm  Meister  "  in  the  eighteenth 
century  and  to  "  Der  Grune  Heinrich  "  in  our  own  time.  But, 
with  all  respect  for  this  national  type,  it  seems  to  me  that  to 


652  COSMOPOLIS. 

regard  Jensen  as  the  representative  novelist  of  our  time  is  to 
ignore  the  conditions  of  literary  evolution.  One  might  as 
soon  look  for  a  renaissance  of  the  English  drama  in  imitations 
of  Congreve  or  Sheridan,  or  of  that  of  France  in  a  reversion 
to  the  naive  technique  of  Hugo  or  Scribe.  The  outlook  for 
German  fiction  would  be  hopeless  indeed,  had  we  nothing 
more  promising  to  point  to  than  the  long,  old-fashioned 
romances  of  this  order.  The  scene  of  "  Luv  und  Lee " 
(Weimar  :  Felber)  is  laid  partly  in  Holstein,  partly  in  Brazil, 
and  it  must  be  admitted  that  only  a  writer  of  real  poetic 
gifts  could  have  depicted  the  life  in  the  little  Baltic  fishing 
village  as  Jensen  has  done.  But,  when  we  have  tasted,  or 
rather  extracted,  the  poetry  of  these  scenes,  we  have  virtually 
obtained  all  that  the  book  has  to  give  us.  Incident  and 
character  are  veiled  in  that  indistinct  haze  which  with  some 
readers  passes  for  a  desirable  antithesis  to  realism,  but  which 
more  probably  arises  from  a  lack  of  artistic  concentration,  a 
want  of  clearness  in  the  author's  poetic  vision.  Years  ago,  in 
Xovellen  like  **  Die  braune  Erica,"  Jensen  reflected  the  poetic 
charm  of  his  Holstein  home  with  a  delicacy  not  unworthy  of 
Storm ;  since  "  Die  braune  Erica "  he  has  published  an 
enormous  library  of  fiction,  but  he  has  made  no  appreciable 
poetic  advance  upon  his  old  self.  As  his  pen  has  gained  in 
fluency,  his  artistic  conscience  has  grown  weaker,  and  what, 
twenty  years  ago,  he  recognised  as  a  fitting  subject  for  a  short 
story,  he  now  draws  out  into  two  long  volumes.  If  ever 
writer  came  to  grief  through  Vielschreiberei  it  is  Wilhelm 
Jensen  ;  he  has  culpably  hidden  his  genuine  poetic  diamond 
in  a  maze  of  words,  with  the  result  that  he  has  made  himself 
unreadable  abroad  and  all  but  unreadable  to  a  large  propor- 
tion of  his  own  countrymen.  And  Jensen's  case  is  not  one  to 
be  passed  over  in  silence,  for  the  same  tendency  is  observable 
in  other  writers  from  whom  we  should  have  expected  better 
things. 

Friedrich  Spielhagen  must  also,  I  fear,  be  numbered  among 
those  authors  who  have  suffered  from  overproduction.  All 
through  the  sixties  and  until  almost  the  end  of  the  seventies, 
no  one  had  more  claim  to  be  regarded  as  the  representative 
novelist  of  Germany  than  Spielhagen.     But  since  then  each 


THE   LITERARY  MOVEMENT  IN   GERMANY.  653 

book  has  been  more  diffuse  than  its  predecessor.   '*  Faustulus" 
(Leipzig  :  Staackmann),    is,  however,  a  more  readable  novel 
than   he   has  given  us  for  many  years.      Like   all   the   best 
German  fiction  of  our  generation,  it  plays  on  the  shores  of 
the  Baltic,  on  the  Pomeranian  coast,  which  Spielhagen  has 
made  peculiarly  his  own.     The  reader  familiar  with  this  coast 
will    have    little   difficulty    in    locating   "  Uselin,"    '*  Sundin," 
and   the   "  Nedur."      The   fresh    nor'easter  curls   the  Baltic, 
whistles  through    the  dunes,  and  blows  as  invigoratingly   in 
our  faces  as  years  ago  in    "Hammer  und   Amboss"   or   in 
*'  Sturmflut."     Spielhagen  never  tires  us  when  he  writes  of  the 
coast  he  knows  so  well.     The  liberality,  too,  with  which  the 
new  story  is  endowed  with  romance  interest  reminds  us  more 
of  his  old  novels  than  those  to  which  we  have  of  late  been 
accustomed.    A  young  doctor,  who,  like  so  many  heroes  of  the 
most  recent  German  fiction,  is  tarred  with  the  brush   of   the 
philosopher  of  Naumburg,  becomes  the  problematical  hero  of  a 
F'aust  tragedy  whose  Gretchen  is  a  pilot's  daughter.     Like  the 
old  Faust,  Arno  has  his  two  souls  within  his  breast,  and  hovel's 
with  cynical  indifference  between  conflicting  alternatives.    His 
"Gretchen  "  ultimately  drowns  herself,  and  the  doctor  is  him- 
self upon  the  point  of  taking  his  life — Spielhagen's  favourite 
way  of  disposing  of  his  problematical  heroes  —  when  he  is 
stabbed  by  the  girl's  former  lover.  Next  to  the  breath  of  sea  air 
in  this  story,  the  portrayal  of  the  provincial  society  of  Uselin 
is  the  most  pleasing  feature  in  it.     We  have,  it  is  true,  met 
all  these  people  before  in  Spielhagen's  novels,  but  they  are 
interesting  enough  to  be  worthy  of  a  renewed  acquaintance. 
I  have,  however,  one    grudge — and    it    is   one    which    most 
readers  will  share — against    Spielhagen.     His  people   are  so 
ungeheuer  gcbildei.    His  heroes  and  heroines  are  weighed  down 
with  intellectual  culture  ;  their  reading  is  so  vast,  their  con- 
versation so  brilliant.     It  would  be  no  easy  task  to  find,  in 
small  German  provincial  towms,  prototypes  for  the  sparkling 
ladies  to  whom  Spielhagen  introduces  us,  or  for  young  doctors 
like  Arno,  with  iambic  tragedies  locked  in  their  desks.     But  if 
Spielhagen's  leading   characters  are  abnormally    intellectual, 
they  are  at   least  free   from  the   more   irritating  affection   of 
abnormal  wittiness.     In  this  respect  the  chief  offender  among 


654  COSMOPOLIS. 

the  writers  who  fall  within  my  present  survey  is  Adolf 
Wilbrandt. 

Of  the  two  novels  which  Wilbrandt  has  published  since 
1  last  discussed  his  work  here,  "  Schleichendes  Gift"  (Stutt- 
gart :  Cotta),  both  as  a  story  and  as  a  picture  of  Vienna 
society,  is  an  impossible  book,  and  what  it  lacks  in  artistic 
justification,  it  endeavours  to  make  up  for  by  a  determined 
striving  after  esprit.  Writing  like  this  of  Wilbrandt's  inclines 
one  to  recognise  the  truth  in  a  remark  made  by  Flaubert 
with  regard  to  Alfred  de  Musset :  "J'execre  I'esprit  en  art; 
les  chefs-d'oeuvre  sont  betes,  ils  ont  la  mine  tranquille  comme 
les  productions  memes  de  la  Nature,  comme  les  grands 
animaux  et  les  montagnes  ! "  In  recent  years  Wilbrandt 
has  several  times  successfully  bidden  for  popularity  by 
seizing  upon  ideas  that  happened  to  be  in  the  air,  and  in 
this  way  he  has  produced  some  interesting  books.  To  this 
class  belongs  his  "  Hildegard  Mahlmann  "  (Stuttgart:  Cotta), 
a  much  superior  novel  to  ''Schleichendes  Gift."  Here 
it  is  obviously  the  story  of  the  East  Prussian  peasant  poetess, 
Johanna  Ambrosius,  in  whom  all  Germany  was  so  deeply 
interested  a  couple  of  years  ago,  which  has  suggested  the  idea 
of  the  novel.  The  freshness  of  the  subject,  and  the  fact  that 
it  is  framed  in  the  sympathetic  landscape  of  Wilbrandt's  native 
Mecklenburg,  make  "  Hildegard  Mahlmann  "  a  story  that  no 
one  will  read  without  pleasure. 

It  is  only  possible  to  refer  here  to  a  few  of  the  authoresses 
at  present  most  widely  read  in  Germany.  Typical  of  the 
popular  novelist  are  the  two  ladies  who  wVite  under  the 
respective  pseudonyms  of  "  Ossip  Schubin  "  and  "  Emil 
Marriot."  "  Ossip  Schubin "  originally  made  her  reputation 
by  clever  and  spirited  sketches  of  Austrian  "  high  life "  ;  in 
recent  years  she  has  turned  her  attention  to  that  cosmopolitan 
society  in  which  "Ouida  "  is  most  at  home,  without,  it  must 
be  confessed,  achieving  any  great  success.  Her  last  novel, 
*'Die  Heimkehr"  (Stuttgart:  Engelhorn)  is  a  story  of  a 
commonplace  order,  and  gains  little  by  a  lady-like  attempt 
to  paint  artist  life  in  Paris — in  this  respect,  it  may  remind 
English  readers  of  Mrs.  Humphry  Ward's  excursion  into  the 
same     field.       ''Emil     Marriot's"     *'Junge    Ehe "     (Berlin: 


THE   LITERARY  MOVEMENT  IN  GERMANY.  655 

Freund   und  Jeckel)  is  a  novel  of  Viennese   life,   depressing 
in  tone  like  most  of  its  authoress's  work,  but  written  with  con- 
siderable   skill.    The     exasperatingly     feminine     standpoint, 
however,  which  "  Emil  Marriot  "  takes  up  with  regard  to  the 
marriage  she  describes,  mars  what  in  stronger  hands  might 
have    become    a    work    of    some   literary    worth.     Of    lady 
novelists  of  pronounced  "  modern "  sympathies,  there  is  not 
much  to   say.     Many   of  them,    such    as   Fraulein   Gabriele 
Renter,  are  ambitious  enough,  but  are  still  in  their  Lchrjahrc  ; 
Frau  Andreas-Salome  ("  Ruth,"  "  Aus  fremder   Seele,"    vStutt- 
gart :  Cotta)  has  not  yet  got  beyond    nebulous   and  uncon- 
vincing psychological  studies,  and  even  Frau  Maria  Janitschek 
has  hardly  fulfilled  in  her  recent  books  (*'  Ninive,"  Leipzig  : 
Spohr  ;   "  Ins    Leben   verirrt,"  Berlin  :  Fischer),   the  promise 
of  her  early  work.     Amongst  writers  who  have  recently  come 
to  the  front,  Frau  Helene  Bohlau  deserves  attention.     A  year 
or  two  ago  she  won  considerable  notice   for  a    romance  of 
Munich  art  life,  "  Der  Rangierbahnhof,"  which  was  full  of  the 
best  kind  of  promise.    There  was  a  sincere  ring  about  this 
book  ;  it  gave  a  sympathetic  picture  of  the  more  tragic  side  of 
a  uu'na^ic  de  Bohnne,  and  showed  that  Frau  Bohlau  was  a  writer 
who  could  penetrate  beneath  the  surface  of  things.     The  pro- 
mise of  "  Der  Rangierbahnhof "  has  been  in  great  measure  ful- 
filled by  her  latest  novel,  "Das  Recht  der  Mutter"  (Berlin  : 
Fontane),  a  book  which  merits  a  place  among  the  half-dozen 
best  novels  of  the  year.      "  Das  Recht  der   Mutter "    is    an 
engrossing  story  which  insists  upon  a  mother's  right  to  feel 
pride  in  her  illegitimate  child,  and  to  defy  the  social  conven- 
tions which  would  draw  a  veil  over  its  birth.     The  opening 
chapters  are  fresh  and  vigorous,  and  give  an  interesting  glimpse 
of  life  in  Russia  and  on  the  Baltic  coast ;  but  towards  the 
close,  as  is  too  often  the  case  in  books  by  women  writers,  who 
have  special  causes  at  heart,  the  Tcndcnz  of  the  story  becomes 
more  noticeable,  and  its  artistic  value  correspondingly  less. 
The  worst  fault  of  "  Das  Recht  der  Mutter "  is  its  defective 
construction  ;  like  too  many  German  novels  it  hangs  loosely 
together,  and  no  unity  is  maintained.     There  is,  however,  a 
genial  tone  about  Frau  Bohlau's  writing,  a  heartfelt  sincerity, 
which  wins   her  admirers  where  some  of  her  equally  gifted 


656  COSIfOPOLlS. 

sisters  fail.  But,  although  younger  talents  are  thus  pushing 
to  the  front,  it  will,  I  think,  be  generally  conceded  that  Frau 
von  Ebner-Eschenbach — and  this  notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  her  last  collection  of  short  stories,  "  Alte  Schule  "  (Berlin : 
Paetel)  is  hardly  worthy  of.  her  pen — stills  holds  her  place 
without  a  serious  rival  at  the  head  of  German  women 
writers. 

Literature  seems  still  to  be  in  a  stage  of  transition   between 
the  old  realistic  theories  which  have  everywhere  fallen  more  or 
less  into  discredit,  and   something  which  has  not  yet  taken 
visible  shape.     What  this  something  is  eventually  to   be   is, 
perhaps,  the  most  interesting  problem  with  which  the  student 
of  European  literature  at  present  has  to  deal.     Realism  being 
what   the  Germans  like  to  call  an  ilbefwundener  Standpunk, 
what  are  the  different  literatures  offering  in  its  place  ?     We 
may  seek  a  solution  by  studying  French  symbolism  in  the  light 
of  the  classical  hedonism  of  Signor  d'Annunzio  ;  or  we  may 
place  side  by  side  the  dramatic  work  of  lbsen,»Echegaray,  and 
Hauptmann,   finding    in  their    common    revolt    against  the 
canons   with  which   realism  set  out,  ground   for    instructive 
comparisons  and  suggestive  conclusions ;  or,  turning  to  French 
and  Austrian  literature,  we  shall  find  young  Vienna  demolish- 
ing what  only  a  few  years  ago  it  helped  to  build,  with  the 
same  zest  and  even  with  the  same  weapons  as  young  Paris.  It 

is   in  this   connection   that  I  would  draw  attention   to  Max 

* 

Kretzer's    "  Roman  aus  dem  Ende    des  Jahrhunderts,"  "  Das 
Gesicht  Christi  "  (Dresden  :  Pierson). 

Max  Kretzer  is  one  of  the  German  representatives  of  the 
particular  development  of  realism  which,  in  France,  is  asso- 
ciated with  the  work  of  M.  Zola  ;  he  is  neither  a  new  nor  a 
young  writer,  and  his  books  show  a  fineness  of  workmanship 
and  an  artistic  independence  which  place  him  distinctly  at  the 
head  of  the  group  of  writers  for  whom  the  night-side  of  a  city's 
life  has  a  fascination.  Other  German  novelists  of  this  school 
have  never  seemed  to  me  to  get  much  beyond  a  somewhat 
helpless  imitation  of  their  French  or  Russian  models ;  in  the 
case  of  Kretzer,  one  has  the  impression  that  here,  at  last,  is 
a  German  naturalist — in  the  narrower  sense  of  the  term- 
who  sees  his  Berlin,  not  across  M,  Zola's  or  the  Goncourts 


THE   LITERARY   MOVEMENT  IN   GERMANY.  657 

temperament,  but  across  a  temperament  peculiarly  his  own. 
Kretzer  has  an  intimate  knowledge  of  Berlin  low  life,  and  he 
describes  it  vividly,  if  not  always  with  a  freedom  from  special 
pleading. 

At  the   best,  however,  the   novel,  which   dwells   upon  the 
woes  of  the  lower  classes,  is  not  pleasant  reading,  and  even 
those  who  take  an  interest  in    books  of   this   class  may  not 
feel  much  attracted  by  Kretzer's  latest  volume.    Were  "Das 
(lesicht   Christi"   merely   a   disagreeable  proletariat   novel,  1 
should  have  no  reason  for  singling  it  out  here  ;  but  it  is  more 
than  this.     With  a  relentless  depiction  of  squalor  and  misery, 
it   combines  a    supernaturalism,   in   which   we  seem    to    see 
the   essentially   unrealistic   Germanic    imagination   struggling 
with  the  fetters  of  realism.     "  Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart, 
for  they  shall   see  God."     To  Andorf,  a  wretched  workman, 
whose   hand   can   find   no  w^ork  to  do,   and  to   his   squalid 
family  starving  in  their  one-room  garret, there  rises  one  Easter- 
tide the  dead  Christ.     He  stands  by  them  in  their  need,  and 
fights   upon   their  side  against  the    bureaucracy,  the  Church 
and   the   capitalist.      Through  scenes  that   present   with    an 
unsparing  hand  the  sordidness  of  the  gin-shop  and  the  hollow- 
ness  of  social  democracy,  we  follow  Andorf  home  to  his  garret 
and  his  dead  child.     We  see  him  next  day  bartering  with  the 
authorities  for  a  spot  of  sacred  ground  in  which  to  bury  the 
child,  the  vysion  of  Christ  rising  to  his  aid.     And  so  it  goes  on  : 
at  every  crucial  moment  the  vision  appears,  to  the  discomfiture 
of  Andorf's  enemies.     But  as  the  story  proceeds,  the  author 
begins  to  draw  too  much  upon  the  supernatural  ;  each  appari- 
tion is  too  obviously  intended  to  surpass  its  predecessor,  and 
his  Christ,  instead  of  inspiring  awe  as  in  the  earlier  scenes, 
ultimately  becomes  a  mere  dviis  ex  machind.  Occasionally,  too, 
the  author  allows  his  sympathies  with  the  oppressed  to  encroach 
unduly  upon  his  book  ;  there  are  chapters  here  which  would 
drag  a  less  powerful  novel  down  to  the  level  of  an  ordinary 
Tcndenzroman.     But,  all  the  same,  "  Das  Gesicht  Christi "  is 
not  a  book  to  be  thrown  aside  and  forgotten.     Scenes  such  as 
those  where  Andorf  drags  through  the  Berlin  streets  a  barrow 
bearing  the  coffin  with  his  dead  child,  and  the  figure  of  Christ 
walks  barefoot  behind,  while  the  little  procession  is  followed 


658  COSIfOPOLIS. 

by  a  ribald,  jeering  crowd,  are  as  powerful  as  anything  one  is 
likely  to  find  in  contemporary  fiction. 

One  of  the  most  interesting  points  to  me  about  this  novel 
of  Max  Kretzer's  is  the  sidelight  it  throws  upon  the  re- 
action against  realism.  The  reader  cannot  fail  to  recognise 
a  resemblance  between  the  pictures  which  Kretzer  calls  up 
and  the  paintings  of  Fritz  von  Uhde.  Just  as  Uhde  endea- 
vours to  bring  the  Gospel  story  into  modern  life  by  painting 
Christ,  not  against  the  conventional  background  of  the  Italian 
cinquecento,  but  in  the  scenery  of  a  modern  Bavarian  village, 
so  Kretzer  has  in  this  book  made  Christ  appear  in  the  streets 
of  Berlin.  This  intimate  sympathy  between  literature  and  the 
arts  is  one  of  the  healthiest  signs  in  the  intellectual  life  of 
contemporary  Germany.  Music  and  literature  have  always 
gone  hand  in  hand  ;  '*  Hansel  und  Gretel "  and  "  Konigs- 
kinder "  belong  as  much  to  the  history  of  the  drama  as  to 
that  of  music,  and  one  need  only  turn  to  the  compositions  of 
younger  musicians  such  as  Richard  Strauss,  to  see  how  closely 
they  are  in  touch  with  the  literary  movement.  In  my  last 
paper  in  this  Review  1  had  occasion  to  point  out  how  much 
the  poetry  of  the  "Sunken  Bell"  owed  to  the  artist  who  has 
left  the  deepest  impression  upon  our  generation,  to  Arnold 
Bocklin  ;  and  a  journal  like  the  Munich  Jugcnd  shows,  on 
the  other  hand,  how  heartily  the  artist  world  reciprocates  this 
interest  on  the  part  of  literature.  The  attempt  to  spiritualise 
modern  art  by  introducing  into  it  the  figures  of  the  New 
Testament  is  characteristically  German  ;  it  may  be  traced  back 
to  Wagner's  "  Parsifal,"  or  even  to  his  earlier  scheme  of  a 
"  Christ  "  tragedy,  while,  besides  Uhde's  paintings  and  Kretzer's 
novel,  we  have  other  examples  of  the  same  tendency  in 
Hauptmann's  "  Hannele,"  and  in  Sudermann's  new  drama 
"Johannes"  ("John  the  Baptist"),  which  was  produced  only 
the  other  day. 

It  may  seem  a  far  cry  from  Kretzer's  "Gesicht  Christi  "  to 
Hermann  Bahr's  brilliant  novel,  "Theater"  (Berlin:  Fischer); 
but  the  two  books  are  worth  considering  together,  if  only  for 
the  points  of  contrast  which  they  offer.  "  Theater  "  is  another 
and  very  different  answer  to  the  question  :  what  is  German 
literature    giving    us    in    place   of    realism?     "Theater"    is 


tHfe   LifERARY    MOVEMENT   IN   GERMANY.  659 

described  by  its  author  as  a  Roman,  or  novel  ;  technically 
speaking,  however,  it  is  only  a  Novelle,  or  even  a  prolonged 
fenilleton  article.  Hermann  Bahr  is  the  most  brilliant  German 
feuilletonist  of  the  day ;  his  contributions  to  the  Vienna 
"Zeit" — a  new  volume  of  these  articles  was  published  some 
months  ago  under  the  title  "Renaissance"  (Berlin:  Fischer) 
— are  models  of  what  writing  of  this  kind  should  be.  Indeed 
one  might  almost  say  that  it  would  be  hard  to  find  Bahr's 
equal  for  brilliancy  and  lightness  of  touch  in  the  stronghold  of 
the  feuilleton,  in  Paris  itself.  "  Theater "  is  the  romance  of  a 
journalist  who  leaps  into  sudden  and  unexpected  fame  as  the 
author  of  a  successful  play,  leaves  wife  and  family  for  the 
actress  who  created  the  heroine,  and  lives  in  a  fever  of  excite- 
ment and  dissipation  for  six  months.  At  the  end  of  this  time 
his  second  piece  is  produced  and  fails,  and  he  returns  to  his 
old  life  a  wiser  if  a  bitterer  man.  To  readers  not  conversant 
with  Viennese  life  and  especially  Viennese  theatrical  life,  a 
novel  so  thoroughly  actual  as  this  of  Bahr's,  must  necessarily 
lose  a  great  deal  of  its  piquancy  and  point,  but  no  one  can 
read  it  without  being  impressed  by  its  ven^e.  At  present 
the  acknowledged  leader  of  young  Austria,  Hermann  Bahr, 
made  his  cUbut  with  books  which,  to  say  the  least  of  it, 
were  not  pleasant  reading,  but  it  is  easy  to  forgive  the  author 
of  "Theater  "  the  artistic  sins  of  "  Die  gute  Schule."  Bahr  is 
one  of  the  coming  men  in  Austrian  literature.  His  "  Theater  " 
and  his  clever  comedy  "  Tschaperl " — which,  however,  I  must 
reserve  for  my  next  paper — are  the  most  substantial  proofs  we 
have  yet  had  from  Austria  that  her  literature  has  a  solution  of 
its  own  to  offer  to  the  problem  of  the  day.  Just  as  North 
Germany,  in  her  endeavour  to  bridge  over  the  dead  point  of 
decadent  realism,  has  gone  back  to  her  old  remedy  of  religious 
mysticism  and  romantic  longings,  so  Austria  has  once  more 
had  recourse  to  the  weapons  of  wit  and  satire  which  have 
already  helped  her  over  more  than  one  dead  point  in  the 
literary  evolution  of  the  past. 

No  book  of  the  last  few  months  has  attracted  more  attention 
than  J.  R.  zur  Megede's  "Quitt!''  (Stuttgart:  Deutsche 
Verlagsanstalt).  The  general  tendency  of  criticism,  however, 
has   been  to  dispose  of  it  as  "sensational."     Not  altogether 

VOL.   IX.— NO.   XXVII.  4 


66o  COSMOPOLIS. 

justly,  1  think,  for  the  book  has  many  excellent  points.     More- 
over,  it  is  as   well    to  remember   that   some  German   critics 
use    the    word    "sensational"    where    the    ordinary    reader 
would    content    himself    with    the     expression    "  not    dull," 
Sudermann's  '*  Es  war,"  if  I  remember  rightly,  was  generally 
hailed  as  ;i   **  Sensationsroman,"  and   it  was  a   "  Sensations- 
roman  "  ;  but  in  genuine  worth  1  venture  to  think  that  it  out- 
weighed the  entire  literary  baggage  of  more  than  one  writer 
who  rejoices  ii]  his  column  in   the  "  Conversationslexikon." 
**  Quitt !  "    it    must  be  admitted,  has    many   elements  of  the 
'*  Sensationsroman  "  ;  notwithstanding  its  six  hundred  pages  it 
is  ;i  most  engrossing  story.     Moreover,  '*  Quitt  ! "   is  of   the 
school  of  Sudermann.    The  hero,  who  has  returned  from  the 
East,  the  clash  of  aristocratic  prejudices  with  the  freer  moral 
code  of  the  outside  world,  the  atmosphere  of  East  Prussian 
Junker  society — all  this  is  directly   suggested  by   "  Es  war." 
But  zur  Megede  has   learned  something  better  from  Suder- 
mann ;  he  has  acquired  not  a  little  of  his  technique,  his  ability 
to  sustain  our  interest,  his  power  of  making  people  and  ideas 
live  for  us.     In  one  respect,  if  only  one,  he  has  even  succeeded 
in   surpassing   his   master  ;    he  has  in  a   higher  degree  that 
feeling  for  locality  which  is  deficient  in  all  Sudermann's  work. 
*'  Es  war  "  might  with  but  little  alteration  have  played  anywhere 
in  Germany,  "  Quitt  1 "  is  East  Prussian  to  the  core  ;  it  is  soil 
of  the  soil.    One  might  put  one's  finger  upon  the  "  Orschauer 
Ecke,"  the  scene  of  the  story,  in  the  map ;  this  aristocracy 
which  zur  Megede  depicts,  with   its  strong  caste  feeling,  its 
Remontenzuclit,  and  its  agrarian  troubles,  is  characteristically 
East  Prussian.    The  personages  of  "  Es  war  "  may  have  been 
humanly   more    interesting    people,   but    they   were    not    so 
definitely  localised  as  those  of  "  Quitt  1 "     At  the  same  time, 
"  Quitt  ! "    is  not  another    "  Es  war "  ;    it   wants  the  strong, 
original  ideas  which  leaven  Sudermann's  work ;  it  is  below 
the   level   of  Sudermann's  novel   in   the  matter  of  character 
drawing  ;  it  is  at  times  unnecessarily  diffuse,  and  would  be 
improved  by  a  vigorous  pruning.    To  my  thinking,  the  weakest 
part  is  towards  the  close,  \\  here  zur  Megede  deserts  his  modern 
model  for  the  old-fashioned,  introspective  methods  which  have 
surely  had  their  day  in  German  fiction.    On  the  whole,  the 


THE   LITERARY   MOVEMENT   IN   GERMANY.  66l 

faults  of  "  Quitt ! "  are  those  of  a  young  writer,  who  has  not 
yet  shaken  himself  free  from  the  models  which  have  influenced 
him,  who  has  not  yet  come  to  clearness  with  himself.  It  is 
not  a  masterpiece,  but  no  book  of  the  year  has  seemed  to 
me  to  be  so  full  of  promise,  or  to  give  more  reason  for  the 
belief  that,  as  the  old  generation  of  North  Country  novelists 
passes  away,  young  and  able  hands  will  be  ready  to  prevent 
another  province  wresting  from  the  Baltic  coasts  the  supremacy 
which  has  hitherto  been  theirs. 

In  a  volume  of  collected  essays  which  Spielhagen  has 
just  published  ('*Neue  Beitrage  zur  Technik  der  Epik  und 
des  Dramas,"  Leipzig :  Staackmann),  he  returns  to  the  theoreti- 
cal discussion  of  the  novel  which  he  began  in  a  volume  on  the 
"Theory  and  Technique  of  the  Novel,"  fifteen  years  ago.  A 
foreign  reader  who  seeks  enlightenment  on  the  movement  and 
aspirations  of  German  fiction  will  not,  however,  learn  much 
from  this  work.  As  a  critic,  Spielhagen  is  a  man  of  ideas,  and 
his  critical  writings  are  never  deficient  in  them ;  but  he  is 
lacking  in  concentration,  in  the  power  of  bringing  these  ideas  to 
a  focus.  The  art  of  writing  comes  so  naturally  to  him  that 
we  have  to  sift  bushels  of  words  to  get  at  the  essential  thoughts 
they  contain.  But,  if  we  have  patience  to  read  through 
those  chapters  in  which  Spielhagen  discusses  his  favourite 
theme  of  the  Novel  as  modern  Epic,  we  shall  not  be  unre- 
warded. Occasionally  we  meet  with  a  luminous  suggestion 
as  to  the  philosophic  basis  of  the  novelist's  art,  occasionally 
an  interesting  parallel  between  the  novels  of  to-day  and  the 
masterpieces  of  the  past.  Perhaps,  however,  the  best  thing 
about  Spielhagen's  critical  method  is  that  it  is,  in  the  widest 
sense,  comparative  ;  he  regards  literature  from  a  cosmopolitan 
standpoint.  When  he  writes  of  the  German  novel,  the 
standards  by  which  he  measures  it  are  the  acknowledged 
masterpieces  of  the  European  novel.  It  is  interesting  to 
come  upon  so  outspoken  a  challenge  as  the  following  : — 

Dcnnoch  darf  und  muss  ich  sagcn  —  zuiu  Trotz  dcr  Liebcdienerci,  die 
mail  in  Deutschland  der  Produktion  des  Auslandes  cnigegeutrslgt,  —  dass 
der  deutsche  Roman,  die  deutsche  Novelle,  was  den  Kunstwert  betriff t  — 
und  er  allein  ist,  wenn  nicht  fCir  den  Moment,  doch  ffir  die  Zukunft  ent- 
bcheidend  —  der  auslandischen  epischen  Kunst  nicht  nur  nicht  nuchsteht, 
bondern  sic  entschieden  ubertri£Et. 


662  C06M0P0LIS. 

To  compare  in  all  seriousness  the  German  novel  with  the 
novel  of  other  literatures,  and  to  insist  upon  its  artistic  priority 
is,  naturally,  somewhat  futile  ;  the  "  art  worth  "  of  a  novel  on 
the  lines  of  "  Soil  und  Haben  "  is  manifestly  to  be  measured 
by   different  standards  from   those    by  which    we    estimate 
"Germinie  Lacerteux"  or  "  Middlemarch."    At  the  same  time, 
there  is  more  truth  in  these  words  of  Spielhagen's  than  the 
majority  of  readers  may  be  inclined  to  admit.    After  all,  the 
important  thing  is  not  that  we  "  place  "  the  German  novelists 
in  European   literature,  but   that  we  recognise  the   German 
standard  of  "  art  worth  "  in  a  novel,  to  be  aesthetically  as 
justifiable  as  any  other  national  standard.     1  have  already  in 
these  pages  protested  against  the  rough  and  ready   opinion 
current  in  France  and  with  ourselves,  that  the  German  novel, 
in  its  most  characteristic  manifestations,  is  merely  a  bungled 
attempt  to  imitate  foreign  models,  and  that  the  criterion  by  which 
it  stands  or  falls,  is  its  success  or  want  of  success  in  fitting  itself 
into  generally  accepted  moulds.     By  a  preconceived  opinion 
of  this  kind,  we  not  only  do  the  novel  an  injustice,  but  we 
stand  in  our  own  light  as  far  as  our  appreciation  of  it  is  con- 
cerned.   The  development  of  the  national  novel  in  Germany  is 
as    unmistakably  organic  as  is  that  of  any   other   type   of 
romance,  as  the  picaresque  novel  in  Spain,  as  the  English  or 
French   novel   of  mannersi     And    the  fundamental   type  is, 
as    Spielhagen    rightly    insists,    the    Lehrjahre    Roman :   the 
novel,  the  theme  of  which  is  the  history  of  a  human  being 
in  his  passage  through  life,  or,  as  we  might  rather  put  it,  the 
history  of  a  human  soul  from  an    essentially  psychological 
point  of  view.  To  force  all  German  novels  into  the  Procrustes 
bed  of  this  definition  would  be  obviously  futile,  and  it  would 
be  equally  futile  to  measure  the  literary  worth  of  the  books 
which  I  have  here  passed  in  review  by  their  approximation  to 
Lehrjahre  Romane.     But  it  is  important  to  remember,  in  dis- 
cussing the  novel  of  to-day,  that  Germany's  greatest  and  most 
important  achievements    in   the  past   have   been   subjective 
pictures  of  an  individual's  growth  ;  and  it  is  by  the  standards 
of  the  past  that  the  national  novel  will  naturally  continue  to 
be  measured. 

But  even  if  we  consider  Spielhagen's  claim  for  the  German 


THE   LITERARY  MOVEMENT  IN  GERMANY.  663 

novel  extravagant,  we  can  hardly  differ  from  him  in  his 
estimate  of  the  Novelle.  German  literature  is  richer  than  all 
other  literatures  in  great  short-story  writers  ;  the  lyric  and  the 
Novelle  are  the  two  "  art  forms  "  in  which  the  strength  of  that 
literature  lies.  But,  so  peculiarly  intime  is  this  most  delicate 
of  the  arts  of  prose  writing,  that  men  may  rise  to  astonish- 
ing mastery  and  yet,  like  the  old  artificers  of  Nurnberg 
and  Augsburg,  be  unknown  even  by  name  to  the  world 
at  large.  Gottfried  Keller  is  an  example  of  a  Novelle  writer 
of  the  first  rank  who  is  only  now  becoming  familiar  to 
the  world  outside  of  Germany,  and  it  is  safe  to  say  that 
Hans  Hoffmann's  name,  to  take  an  example  from  the 
literature  of  the  day,  has  not  yet  penetrated  beyond  the  Rhine. 
Yet  Hoffmann,  more,  perhaps,  than  any  other  writer  of  the 
present  generation,  deserves  to  be  regarded  as  Keller's  literary 
heir ;  he  is  endowed  with  that  same  delicate  humour  and 
sense  for  poetic  essentials  which  we  find  in  Keller.  And  his 
stories  have  something,  too,  of  the  fine  cameo-like  clearness 
of  Heyse's  art.  I  hope,  however,  to  have  an  opportunity 
to  speak  again  of  his  work  ;  for  the  present,  I  can  only 
recommend  warmly  to  all  lovers  of  delicate  prose  poetry  the 
two  dainty  volumes  *'  Ostseemarchen  "  (Leipzig  :  Liebeskind), 
and  "AUerlei  Gelehrte"  (Berlin:  Paetel),  which  he  has  pub- 
lished within  the  last  few  months. 

Another  proof*  of  the  congenialness  of  the  Novelle  to  the 
German  writer  is  that  writers  who  score  but  indifferent  suc- 
cesses in  other  branches  of  literature  sometimes  show  them- 
selves genuine  artists  in  this.  Ernst  von  Wildenbruch,  for 
instance,  whose  dramatic  work  rarely  exceeds  a  brilliant 
theatrical  chic,  wears  quite  another  face  in  some  of  his  stories. 
One  would  hardly  give  the  playwright  of  "  Die  Quitzows " 
credit  for  the  psychological  insight  he  displays  in  one  or  two 
of  the  stories  in  his  latest  collection,  "  Tiefe  Wasser  "  (Berlin  : 
Freund  und  Jeckel).  There  is  a  delicacy  of  colouring  here 
which  contrasts  oddly  with  the  rough  splashes  which  do  ser- 
vice in  his  stage  pieces.  Perhaps,  however,  the  reason  for  the 
superiority  here  is  to  be  sought,  not  so  much  in  the  difference 
between  the  art  of  the  novelist  and  that  of  the  dramatist,  as  in 
the  field  which  th^  author  chooses  for  his  work.  A  longer  story 


664  COSMOPOLIS. 

of  Wildenbruch's,  "  Der  Zaiiberer  Cyprianus"  (Berlin:  Freund 
und  Jeckel),  published  some  months  before  ''  Tiefe  Wasscr,"  is 
on  the  same  level  as  his  tragedy  of  "  Kdnig  Heinrich"  ;  while, 
on  the  other  hand,  "  Die  Haubenlerche,"  a  play  of  modem  life, 
which  appeared  about  the  same  time  as  Sudermann's  "Die 
Ehre,"  was  not  unworthy  of  being  compared  with  that  play. 
If  Wildenbruch  would  limit  himself  to  the  people  and  events 
of  every  day,  he  might  measure  himself  both  as  novelist  and 
dramatist  with  the  best  of  his  colleagues.  But,  as  soon  as  he 
falls  back  into  his  favourite  historical  domain,  he  seems  to  lose 
his  grasp  upon  life,  and  becomes  empty  and  theatrical ;  he 
lacks  that  rarest  of  gifts,  the  ability  to  give  a  poetic  interpreta- 
tion to  history. 

In  many  respects  the  most  delightful  book  of  the  year  was 
Paul  Heyse's  "Das  Ratsel  des  Lebens"  (Berlin:  Hertz),  a 
series  of  inimitable  portraits,  such  as  Heyse  alone  can  draw, 
of  men  and  women  for  whom  the  riddle  of  life  has  been  too 
hard  to  solve.  In  the  half-dozen  stories  of  this  collection  there 
is  hardly  one,  which,  if  we  are  to  reckon  by  incident,  was 
worth  telling,  and  1  yet  one  and  all  are  surrounded  with  a  halo  of 
the  most  delicate  poetry.  The  fertile  invention  of  the  early 
Italian  stories,  upon  which  Heyse's  reputation  was  founded, 
may  be  missing  in  these  later  ones,  but  with  the  years,  Heyse's 
art  has,  if  anything,  become  still  finer,  his  touch  more  delicate, 
his  style  more  polished.  Even  in  a  mere  sketch  like  "  Ehrliche 
Leute,"  which  describes  a  commonplace  experience  in  an 
Italian  inn,  we  are  in  the  presence  of  a  master  of  his  art,  and 
the  old  musician,  whose  unwritten  opera  gives  the  title  to  the 
volume,  is  one  of  those  delightful  figures  which  linger  long  in 
the  memory.  Even  better  than  the  Novcllen  in  this  volume  is 
"  Der  Sohn  seines  Vaters,"  the  second  of  two  short  stories 
which  Heyse  has  published  also  within  the  past  few  months 
(Stuttgart :  Krabbe).  A  young  millionaire,  weary  of  being 
merely  "  the  son  of  his  father,"  finds  himself  attracted  by  a 
countrywoman  of  his  own,  who,  like  himself,  is  on  holiday 
at  Bordighera.  Although  aware  that  she  is  but  a  governess, 
he  promptly  falls  in  love  with  her,  and  enlists  her  sym- 
pathies in  his  efforts;  to  discover  for  himself  a  real  mission 
«in  life.     He  is,  however,  too  much  his  father's  son  not,  on 


THE   LITERARY   MOVEMENT   IN   GERMANY.  00^ 

the  first  excuse,  to  slip  back  into  the  primrose  path,  and  the 
governess  escapes  the  questionable  good  fortune  of  becoming 
the  young  millionaire's  wife. 

That  the  novel  is  at  present  inferior  to  the  drama  as  a  literary 
expression  of  German  thought,  1  have  already  emphasised;  the 
tentative  way  in  which  even  the  most  advanced  novelists 
follow  docilely  where  the  drama  l8ads  shows  that  fiction  is  not 
the  leading  voice  in  the  literary  world  of  to-day,  that  it  is  not, 
to  use  Spielhagen's  phrase,  "  die  litterarische  Vormacht."  At 
the  same  time,  one  cannot  but  feel  a  certain  admiration  for 
the  many-sidedness  of  novel -writing  in  Germany,  for  its 
earnestness,  and  for  the  level  of  artistic  worth  which  it  attains. 
It  would,  I  think,  be  difficult  to  find  in  the  fiction  of  any 
other  contemporary  literature  books  so  widely  different  in 
character  and  scope,  and  so  full  of  interest  for  the  literary 
student. 

John  G.  Robertson. 


NAPLKS. 


I, 

1  IIAVK  rarely  entered  u  strange  city  without  a  certain  appre- 
hension ;  but  no  city  ever  filled  me  with  such  terror  as  Naples. 
Those  long  streets  of  tall,  mean  houses,  from  which  narrow 
alleys  climbed  the  hill,  and  descended  to  the  harbour,  in  row 
after  row  of  meaner  and  not  less  tall  houses,  all  with  their 
little  iron  balconies,  over  which  clothes  and  linen  draggled, 
all  with  their  crowded,  squalid,  patched,  and  coloured  throngs 
of  restless  life  ;  the  cracking  of  whips,  the  clatter  of  wheels  and 
of  horses'  hoofs  on  the  uneven  stones ;  the  thud  of  the  cow- 
bell, the  sharper  tinkle  of  the  goat-bell,  as  the  creatures  wander 
about  the  streets  or  wait  at  the  doors  of  houses  ;  the  rattling 
of  bootblacks'  brushes,  the  petulant  whine  of  beggars,  the 
whole  buzz  of  that  humming,  half-obliterated  Neapolitan,  with 
its  punctuation  of  gestures  ;  the  rush  and  hustling  of  those 
side-walks,  after  the  ample  and  courteous  leisure  of  Rome  ; 
something  sordid  in  the  very  trees  on  the  sea-front,  second-rate 
in  the  aspect  of  the  carriages  that  passed,  and  of  the  people  who 
sat  in  them ;  the  bare  feet,  rags,  rainbow-coloured  dirt,  sprawling 
and  spawning  poverty  of  Santa  Lucia,  and  not  of  Santa  Lucia 
alone  ;  the  odour  of  the  city  ;  and  then  the  indiscoverable 
length  and  extent  of  it,  the  ways  that  seemed  to  lead  in  what' 
ever  direction  I  wanted  to  go,  and  then  ended  suddenly,  or 
turned  aside  in  another  direction  ;  the  darkness  up  the  hill, 
and  the  uncertainty  of  all  those  new,  as  yet  unknown,  roads : 
that,  as  I  turned  away  from  the  sea,  when  night  began  to  come 
down  upon  it,  mounted  to  my  head  like  some  horrible  fume, 
enveloping  me  with  disgust,  possessing  me  with  terror.  I  have 
got  a  little  accustomed  to  it  now,  I  know  my  way  through 


NAPLES.  667 

those  streets,  which  are,  after  all,  simple  enough  in  their 
arrangement ;  I  have  come  to  see  certain  advantages  even  in 
the  turning  of  all  this  dirt  and  poverty  out  into  the  sun  ;  I  find 
it  a  touching  tribute  to  cleanliness  that  every  other  poor  person 
whom  you  see  is  hunting  for  his  own  or  his  neighbour's 
vermin  ;  but,  all  the  same,  I  think  my  first  impression  is  likely 
to  last. 

1  do  not  think  that  the  Neapolitans  are  more  vicious  or 
intend  to  be  more  objectionable  than  other  people,  but  they  are 
poor,  naturally  untidy  ;  they  live  in  the  street  bdSause  there  is 
sun  and  air  in  the  street,  and  it  does  not  occur  to  them  that 
there  is  anything  in  human  nature  to  hide.  They  have  an  abso- 
lute, an  almost  ingenuous,  lack  of  civilisation,  and  after  seeing 
the  Neapolitans  I  have  more  respect  for  civilisation.  I  am  not 
convinced  that  the  whole  of  the  pavement  belongs  to  the 
dirtiest  part  of  the  people  who  walk  on  it,  and  that  these  have 
exactly  the  right  to  encamp  with  their  wives  and  families  in  the 
way  of  one's  feet,  and  to  perform  quite  the  whole  of  their  toilet 
before  one's  eyes.  For  these  people,  whom  you  see  in  S.  Lucia 
and  the  Strada  del  Porto  and  along  the  whole  of  the  quays,  are 
as  shameless  as  animals  :  look  into  their  faces,  and  you  will  see 
in  their  great,  dark  eyes  the  unintelligent  regard  of  animals. 
Old  age  and  infancy  are  here  more  horrible  than  anywhere  else  ; 
that  beginning  and  ending  of  human  life  in  helplessness  and 
physical  dishonour  are  here  emphasised  with  all  the  cruelty  of 
which  nature,  left  to  herself,  is  capable.  A  Christian  ascetic, 
wishing  to  meditate  on  the  disgust  of  the  flesh,  might  well  visit 
these  quays.  There  he  will  see  the  flaccid  yellowness  of  old 
women,  like  the  skin  of  a  rotten  apple  ;  wrinkles  eaten  in  with 
grime,  until  they  broaden  into  ruts  ;  feet  and  ankles  that  have 
been  caked  and  roasted  and  soaked  into  iridescent  reds,  smoky 
violets,  shot  purples  ;  the  horror  of  decayed  eyes,  deformed 
limbs,  hair  crawling  with  lice;  and  about  these  dishonoured 
bodies  flutters  a  medley  of  blackened  and  yellowing  linen, 
tattered  trousers  without  buttons,  tattered  dresses  without 
strings,  torn  shawls,  still  loud  in  colour,  but  purple  where  they 
had  been  red,  and  lavender  where  they  had  been  blue.  And  all 
^his  malodorous  medley  is  a-swarm.  hoarse  voices  crying, 
hands  in  continual  movement,  the  clatter  of  heelless  shoes  on 


668  COSMOPOLIS. 

the  pavement,  the  splash  of  emptied  vessels,  laughter,  the  harsh 
notes  of  a  song,  rising  out  of  their  midst  like  the  bubble  of 
steam  escaping  out  of  a  boiling  pot. 

II. 

Naples  varies  in  aspect  according  as  you  see  it  from  above 
or  below,  from  the  side  which  looks  towards  Vesuvius,  the 
side  which  looks  towards  Capri,  the  side  which  merges  into 
Posillipo  ;  and  no  generalisation  can  express  the  effect  of  this 
precipitous  and  straggling  town,  under  the  shadow  of  the 
burning  mountain,  and  itself  crawling  up  and  down  the  sides 
of  volcanic  hills,  set  in  a  half-circle  against  the  curve  of  the 
bay.  Looking  from  Capodimonte  you  would  say  that  it 
nestled  among  green  trees ;  looking  from  the  sea-front  you 
would  say  that  it  was  built  out  of  the  sheer  rock.  And  its 
colour  varies  like  its  contour.  Rain  warmed  by  sunshine 
brings  out  the  finest  colours,  and  shows  you  the  roofs  and 
railed  and  windowed  walls  in  their  most  effective  groupings, 
house  piled  above  house,  like  rock  piled  above  rock,  green 
foliage  seeming  to  grow  out  of  their  crevices.  There  never 
was  a  town  which  seemed  to  have  been  so  little  made,  to  have 
grown  so  entirely  according  to  its  own  whim,  and  with  so 
little  regard  to  any  consideration  but  the  crowding  of  houses 
into  every  available  inch  of  ground,  street  intersecting  street, 
and  snlifCf  scalc^  rampc  rising  out  of  these  intersections 
wherever  an  unfilled  corner  could  be  found.  Looking  down 
on  the  side  streets  of  Chiaia  and  Toledo  is  like  looking  down 
the  clefts  in  a  rock,  the  crevices  of  a  mountain  side  ;  looking  up 
them,  to  the  glimpses  of  the  hill  above,  is  like  looking  up  from 
the  bottom  of  a  gorge.  And  whenever  you  climb,  by  stair- 
ways or  winding  terraces,  to  a  certain  height,  you  see  on  the 
east  the  double  ridge  of  Vesuvius,  smoke  coiling  into  clouds 
above  the  crater,  its  sides,  in  clear  weather,  spotted  white 
with  houses,  in  dull  weather  an  indistinguishable  mass  of 
violet  or  purple,  like  the  colour  of  thunder-clouds ;  on  the 
south,  the  bay,  in  which  Capri  and  the  ridged  coast  of  Sorrento 
appear  and  disappear  with  every  change  of  weather,  like  the 
stains  in  stone,  or  a  picture  which  the  magic-lantern  flashes 
upon  and  away  from  the  sheet, 


NAPLES.  669 

III. 

Naples  has  ceased  to  be  merely  horrible  to  me,  a  boiling  pot ; 
it  has  become  a  witches'  cauldron.  I  begin  to  be  fascinated 
by  those  streets  which  are  corridors,  with  their  violent 
shadows,  their  obscure  exuberance  of  life  ;  those  strange 
glimpses,  as  I  climb  at  night  through  terrace  after  terrace  of 
sordid  streets,  the  houses  open  to  view,  the  one  large  room  lit 
with  the  smoking  oil-lamp,  the  figures  bending  over  it,  the 
white  beds  set  side  by  side,  from  one  of  which  you  see  already 
the  nightcapped  head  of  the  grandmother,  or  a  child's  tumbled 
black  hair  ;  vague  figures  still  leaning  into  the  darkness  from 
their  balconies,  now  and  then  the  sudden  descent  of  a  basket 
at  the  end  of  a  string,  the  sound  of  a  mandolin  or  piano- 
organ,  a  song,  or  the  rattle  of  feet  on  the  floor  ;  for  the  most 
part  silence,  or  a  low  chatter  which  does  not  reach  me.  Lights 
shine  out  suddenly  from  curtained  windows,  doors  open  and 
shut,  you  hear  the  bolts  drawn.  And  all  kinds  of  strange 
archways,  passages,  steps  leading  up  or  down,  indefinite 
turnings,  perplex  one  at  every  step.  There  is  a  crucifix 
which  I  pass  every  night ;  it  is  only  a  crucifix  painted 
upon  wood,  but  it  is  set  up  in  a  shrine  like  the  gable  of  a 
house,  there  are  five  oil-lamps  about  it,  which  cast  singular 
lights  on  the  sufTering  figure,  hanging  there,  as  if  on  a  Calvaiy, 
at  the  side  of  the  pavement,  with  fresh  flowers  at  its  feet. 
That,  too,  seems  to  me  like  something  not  quite  natural,  a  part 
of  the  same  sorcery  which  has  piled  all  these  rocky  ways  and 
set  up  these  cavernous  houses.  No,  there  never  was  a  town 
so  troubling,  so  disquieting,  so  incalculable  as  Naples,  with 
its  heavenly  bay  lying  out  in  front  for  strangers  to  gaze  at,  and 
all  this  gross,  contentedly  animal  life  huddled  away  in  its 
midst,  like  some  shameful  secret. 

IV. 

Wherever  I  go  in  Naples,  in  the  streets,  the  theatres,  the 
churches,  the  caf6s,  I  see  the  same  uncouth  violence  of  life, 
the  same  ferment  of  uncivilisation.  Occasionally,  when  two 
Neapolitans  meet  in  the  street,  they  kiss  one  another  with  a 
loud  kiss ;  for  the  most  part  they  do  not  shake  hands,  they  do 


670  COSMOPOLIS. 

not  nod,  they  do  not  lift  their  hats  ;  they  stare  fixedly,  with  an 
expression  which  I  took  to  mean  violent  aversion  until  I  came 
to  find  it  indicated  extreme  friendship.  Watching  from  a  little 
distance  a  group  of  men  at  a  caf6'table,  you  cannot  tell  whether 
they  are  or  are  not  having  a  serious  altercation.  When  a 
Neapolitan  gesticulates  he  does  it  with  all  his  fingers  and  the 
whole  of  his  face  ;  when  he  does  not  gesticulate,  he  is  rigid. 
All  that  is  best,  certainly,  but  all  that  is  most  typical  in  the 
Neapolitan  seems  to  me  to  be  summed  up  in  the  writer  who 
more  than  any  other,  has  given  in  literature  the  whole  savour 
of  Naples.  Matilde  Serao  makes  on  one  the  impression  of  a 
good-humoured  gnome.  Full  of  strength,  sincerity,  emotion, 
full  of  an  irresistible  charm  of  humanity,  she  is  so  short  and 
stout  as  to  be  almost  square  ;  her  head,  too,  with  its  low  fore- 
head, is  square  ;  and  she  sits  humped  up,  with  her  head  between 
her  shoulders,  all  compressed  vivacity,  which  is  ready  to  burst 
forth  at  any  moment  in  a  flood  of  energetic,  humorously 
emphatic  words,  to  which  her  leaping  gestures  with  her  short 
fat  fingers,  in  front  of  her  nose,  of  her  grimacing  eyes,  of  her 
cheeks  wrinkled  with  laughter,  add  a  further  and  a  yet  more 
grotesque  emphasis. 

I  heard  the  "  Cavalleria  Rusticana "  one  night  at  the  S. 
Carlo  theatre,  and,  though  the  character  of  the  music  is 
properly  Sicilian,  it  seemed  to  me  to  have  a  good  deal  in  it  of 
the  people  among  whom  it  is  so  popular.  This  crackling 
music,  a  fire  which  crackles  out,  has  an  acute,  feverish,  quite 
Southern  sentimentality,  the  sentimentality  of  the  mandolin 
and  the  knife.  Kindling,  certainly,  while  you  listen  to  it,  it  is 
wiped  out,  as  a  sponge  wipes  out  figures  on  a  slate,  with  the 
first  breath  of  air  you  draw  outside.  And  the  true,  canaille, 
Neapolitan  music,  the  Piedigrotta  songs  and  the  rest,  which 
you  hear  all  day  long,  shouted,  whistled,  played  on  piano- 
organs,  on  mandolins,  in  the  streets,  in  the  restaurants,  in  the 
caf6s-chantants,  have  they  not  the  very  odour  of  the  streets  in 
them  ?  The  songs  are  often  enough  obscene,  as  popular  songs 
often  enough  are,  and  to  hear  Emilia  Persico  or  Maldacea  sing 
them,  with  a  knowing  vivacity,  an  abominable  languor,  is  to 
realise  all  that  they  are  capable  of  in  the  way  of  significant 
expression.     But  in  the  tunes  lhemselveS|  with  their  heady 


NAPLES.  671 

notes,  their  pauses  and  rushes,  their  careful  uncertainties  of 
rhythm,  their  almost  Spanish  effects  of  monotony,  there  is 
something  at  once  greasy  and  fiery,  an  acrid  vulgarity  which 
stings  the  senses,  revolting  and  depraving,  with  a  kind  of 
ntoxication  like  the  intoxication  of  cheap  wine. 

At  Easter  the  Neapolitans  mourn  for  the  death  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  the  Greeks  mourned  for  the  death  of  Adonis.  It  is  a 
sacred  play  to  them,  in  which  they  take  the  same  turbulent, 
and,  for  the  moment,  absorbing  interest,  as  in  an  opera  at  S. 
Carlo,  or  a  melodrama  at  the  Mercadante.  On  Good  Friday, 
during  the  "Tre  Ore"  of  the  Passion,  I  went  into  the 
popular  central  church  of  S.  Trinita  Maggiore.  Between  the 
high  altar  and  the  pulpit,  where  a  queer,  black  figure  in  his 
cornered  hat  preached  with  a  sounding  voice  and  the  gestures 
of  a  puppet,  there  was  a  rough  platform,  draped  with  blue 
cloth,  on  which  was  an  orchestra  of  black-coated  gentlemen 
and  some  singers,  who  sang  with  high  Mascagni  voices. 
The  people,  coming  in  continuously  by  twos  and  threes, 
rushed  about  the  church  as  if  it  were  the  market-place, 
precipitately,  greeting  their  friends  with  little  sharp  hisses  of 
recognition,  turning  about  in  their  chairs,  chattering  in 
whispers,  waving  their  hands  to  one  another,  standing  and 
arranging  one  another's  hats.  Never  have  I  seen  such 
bustling,  restless,  disorderly  churches,  or  people  so  uncivilised 
in  their  devotions.  During  the  '* three  hours"  the  church 
was  packed  in  all  its  corners,  people  sitting  on  the  altar-steps, 
on  the  altar  itself,  perched  in  and  around  all  the  confessionals  ; 
the  men  piled  their  hats  into  the  empty  holy-water  basins,  the 
women  who  had  come  without  hats  did  not  cover  their 
heads  with  handkerchiefs  ;  during  the  sermon  all  listened 
attentively,  as  to  a  really  absorbing  play.  On  the  day  before 
Holy  Thursday  there  had  been  the  celebration  of  the  Santo 
Sepolcro.  The  doors  of  the  churches  were  draped  in  black, 
the  high  altar  was  covered  with  black  cloth,  and  on  a  black 
cloth  before  the  high  altar  the  crucifix  was  laid  out,  as  if  in  a 
tomb.  Some  of  the  Christs  were  small,  of  dark  metal,  almost 
indistinguishable  from  a  little  distance ;  others  were  large, 
made  of  painted  wood,  with  smears  of  red  paint  for  the  five 
wounds;  and  a  crowd  came  and  went  all  day  long,  mostly 


67^  COSMOl>OLlS. 

women,  and  these  women  knelt  and  kissed  the  five  wounds, 
almost  prostrating  themselves  on  the  floor.  There  was  some- 
thing grotesque,  familiar,  amorous,  extravagant,  in  this  unending 
procession  of  women,  rich  and  poor,  young  and  old,  all,  one 
after  another,  dropping  on  their  knees,  leaning  over  the  sacred 
body,  whose  passion  was  shown  to  them  with  so  visible  a 
significance  ;  something,  I  cannot  tell  what,  barbaric,  infantile, 
sensuous,  in  the  sight  and  sound  of  all  those  devout  and  eager 
kisses,  which  they  gave  with  a  passionate  solemnity,  as  to  a 

lover, 

V. 

Outside  Naples,  between  Vesuvius  and  the  sea,  half-buried 
and  half-recovered  from  the  earth,  the  ghastly  suburb  of 
Pompeii  repeats,  like  a  remote  echo,  the  very  note  of  Naples. 
Pompeii,  though  you  will  find  it  large  enough  when  you  follow 
all  the  intersections  of  its  abrupt,  crossing  ways,  remains  in  the 
memory  like  a  toy  city,  or  a  cabinet  in  a  museum.  And,  as  one 
walks  in  these  streets,  in  which  noise  or  silence  isalike  oppres- 
sive, interrupting,  it  is  possible  to  persuade  oneself  that  one  is 
merely  visiting  a  museum,  looking  at  curiosities.  In  so  fright- 
ful a  step  back  of  nearly  twenty  centuries,  the  mind  reels, 
clutching  at  that  somewhat  pacifying  thought,  for  at  least  its 
momentary  relief.  And  then,  all  at  once,  turning  aside  into  an 
empty  street  from  the  guide  and  the  visitors,  you  are  seized, 
and,  *is  it  were,  imprisoned  within  the  terror  of  this  image  of 
the  immortality  of  death,  before  which  all  the  legends  of  hell 
become  credible,  seeing  how  hard  it  is  to  escape,  even  by 
death,  out  of  the  bondage  of  even  a  material  indestructibility. 
Here  are  the  bodies  of  men  and  women,  moulded  for  ever  in 
the  gesture  of  their  last  moment,  and  these  rigid,  earthy  corpses 
are  iis  vivid  in  their  interrupted  life  as  the  wet  corpses 
lying  on  the  slabs  of  the  Morgue,  the  suicide  of  yester- 
day. These  hastily  set  up  walls  might  have  been  built 
last  year,  and  the  rut  of  the  wagon-wheels  in  the  solid 
pavement  of  lava  is  like  a  wheel-mark  left  overnight  in  the  dry 
mud  of  a  country  road.  The  brothel  and  the  temple  are  here, 
side  by  side,  and  here,  only  just  cleansed  from  its  burial,  is  a 
villa,  its  walls  still  bright  with  paint,  still  eloquent  with  fres- 
coes, the  little  bronze  and  marble  images  still  smiling  about  the 


NAPLES.  673 

fountains  and  flower-beds  of  the  central  garden  ;  a  pot,  the 
yellow  rust  of  lava  corroding  it,  set  over  the  fire  which  went 
out  suddenly  on  that  twenty-fourth  of  August,  A.D.  79, 
Feeling  the  stone  and  mortar  of  these  jerry-built  walls,  noting 
the  conventional  glibness  of  these  graceful  decorative  paintings, 
realising,  by  the  very  signs  of  its  "pleasant  sins,"  that  here, 
after  all,  was  but  the  Brighton  of  its  day,  you  seem,  by  th« 
consciousness  of  all  that  is  trivial,  temporary,  accidental  in  it, 
to  be  brought  closer  to  that  so  strangely  capricious  survival  of 
ancient  death.  And  then,  going  out  into  the  road,  in  the  first 
step  beyond  the  hedge,  in  the  first  breath  of  relief  at  the  sight 
of  the  little  station,  the  two  hotels  for  visitors,  the  quiet  fields 
in  which  men  are  digging,  fruitful  fields  stretching  out  to  the 
roots  of  the  mountains  all  around,  Vesuvius  smoking  placidly 
above,  this  unt)earable  sense  of  the  nearness  of  life  suspended 
so  many  years  ago  drops  back  suddenly,  and  again  it  is  as  if  it 
had  never  been,  and  again  you  have  persuaded  yourself  that 
this  is  after  all  only  a  show  in  a  museum,  a  collection  of 
curiosities,  a  toy  city  which  had  never  really  had  anything  too 
intimate  to  do  with  humanity. 

VI. 

There  is  in  Naples  the  image  of  a  world,  which  adds  a  new 
world  to  one's  contemplation,  not  less  vivid  and  swarming 
than  those  streets  ;  and  that  world  of  the  Aquarium  seems  as 
real,  as  natural,  in  all  its  fantastic,  extravagant,  and  enigmatical 
life,  as  the  life  of  human  beings.  It  is,  indeed,  first  by  its 
humanity  that  it  strikes  us,  by  the  strange  irony  of  the  likeness 
which  one  sees  in  these  scaled,  pulpy,  and  many  tentacled 
creatures  of  the  sea,  in  the  very  expression  of  their  eyes  and 
bodies,  and  also  in  the  whole  manner  of  their  occupations 
among  the  rocks  and  their  neighbours,  with  the  faces  and  the 
doings  of  men.  There  is  not  a  human  vice  or  absurdity  which 
I  have  not  seemed  to  see  in  these  drowsy,  and  irritable,  and 
rapacious,  and  surly,  and  pre-occupied  creatures,  their  whole 
lives  spent  in  catching  flies  (with  what  an  elaborate  mechanism 
of  means  to  that  end  !),  in  coiling  and  uncoiling  an  army  of 
suckers  to  the  very  obliteration,  almost,  of  the  centre  of  their 
being ;    in    fanning   themselves,    with  soft,  unresting    wings, 


^74  COSMOPOLIS. 

forwards  and  backwards,  forwards  and  backwards,  for 
ever,  neither  turning  nor  ceasing  for  a  moment.  Some 
have  the  aspect  of  eternal  age,  as  others  have  the 
curse  of  eternal  activity.  In  the  great,  sullen,  flat  creatures 
with  their  purple  bodies,  their  bull-dog  jaws,  their  heavy 
eyes,  I  see  the  gross  bourgeois,  as  he  is  everj'where  in 
the  world  ;  it  seems  that  he  inhabits  the  water  as  he  inhabits 
the  earth,  and  with  the  same  authority.  Is  there  not  a  heavy 
coquetry  in  the  motions  of  a  certain  kind  of  eel,  the  ver\' 
effervescence  of  bumptious  youth  in  the  little  fishes  with  fins 
which  look  like  arms  akimbo,  the  very  parody  of  our  aspira- 
tions in  the  diaphanous,  delicately  coloured  creatures,  edged 
with  lavender,  who  have  puffed  all  their  life  into  their  heads, 
which  for  ever  pant  and  strain  upwards  like  balloons,  as  if 
trying  to  free  themselves  of  the  little  tangle  of  body  still  left 
to  them  ?  Then,  too,  there  is  a  fantasy  more  terrible  than  any 
nightmare,  a  soft,  seductively  coloured,  deceptive,  strangling 
life  in  these  clinging,  and  absorbing,  and  stealthy  apparition!) 
of  the  sea,  which  come  and  go  in  the  water  with  the  sudden 
and  soft  violence  of  the  water  itself. 

Coming  up  out  of  the  twilight,  where  I  have  been  gazing 
into  the  glass  boxes  filled  with  water,  wondering  at  these 
uneasy  miracles  of  the  sense  of  touch,  I  find  myself  replunged 
into  the  bustle  of  Naples,  for  the  concert  has  begun  in  the 
Villa,  and  people  are  walking  to  and  fro  under  the  trees,  and 
sitting  on  the  chairs  about  the  band -stand,  listening  to  the 
harsh  din  of  those  brass  instruments  playing  their  noisy, 
military,  Italian  music.  The  garden  of  the  Villa  Nazionale  lies 
for  a  mile  along  the  sea-  front,  from  the  Largo  della  Vittoria 
almost  to  the  beginning  of  Posillipo,  and  you  can  stand  under 
the  curdling  blossoms  of  the  Judas  trees,  and  still  see  the  blue 
water  shining  under  the  afternoon  sun,  or  the  tossing  of  the 
little  waves  when  the  wind  begins  to  blow  them  grey.  Onthe 
particular  afternoon  when  I  had  visited  the  Aquarium,  clouds 
began  to  climb  over  the  top  of  the  hill,  catching  stormy 
colours,  and  then  turning  leaden  ;  and  presently  the  concert  came 
abruptly  to  an  end,  as  the  rain  poured  with  a  straight,  steady 
violence,  scattering  the  people  hither  and  thither,  into  the  Httle 
wooden  c^i6s,  under  the  thin  branches  of  trees,  under  the  droop* 


NAPLESi  675 

ing  hoods  of  cabs,  and  behind  the  flapping  curtains  of  trams.  1 
sat  in  one  of  the  caf6s  and  watched  the  hurry  of  people 
Unprepared  for  anything  but  sunshine ;  the  bUnd  rush  through 
the  puddles,  the  shelterless  lingering  under  dripping  trees,  the 
half-desperate,  half-hoping  glances  upward  at  the  grey  sky, 
which  might  be  blue  again  at  any  moment,  or  perhaps  not 
for  an  hour's  time.  All  the  brightness,  the  unconsidering 
gaiety,  of  Naples  had  gone  out  like  a  candle  in  the  wind  ;  life 
seemed  to  come  angrily  to  a  pause,  in  this  sudden  hostility  of 
nature.  Presently  I  heard  the  twanging  of  a  string  :  two  men 
with  mandolin  and  fiddle  were  standing  in  the  doorway,  and  a 
Woman  began  to  sing  one  of  the  Fiedigrotta  songs.  A  man 
carrying  a  cloth-covered  box  came  in,  took  off  his  cap,  and 
w-ent  smilingly,  persistently,  from  table  to  table,  with  his 
tortoise-shell  combs,  his  corals,  and  his  brooches  of  lava. 
Outside  the  window  crouched  a  dark,  handsome,  half-witted 
beggar-girl,  with  her  red  handkerchief  over  her  head,  her 
white  teeth  shining  in  a  smile ;  she  held  out  her  little 
brown  hand,  beckoning  for  alms  ;  and  standing  there,  bare- 
footed in  the  rain,  seemed  to  bring  back  the  Neapolitan  accent 
to  Naples. 

Arthur  Symons, 


Vol.  ik.— no.  xxVii.  ^ 


fi 


THH  MAkKR  OP  LfiNStiS/ 


II. 

How*  curious  these  persistent  iittempts  of  friend  and  foe 
alike  to  provide  for  his  hvehhood,  and  whUt  mistaken  reverence 
his  persistent  rejections  had  brought  him.  People  could  not 
lift  their  hands  high  enough  in  admiration  because  he  followed 
Ihe  law  of  his  nature,  because  he  preferred  a  simple  living 
simply  earned ;  while  for  criminals  who  followed  equally  the 
laws  of  their  nature  they  had  anger  rather  than  pity.  As  well 
praise  the  bee  for  yielding  honey,  or  the  rose  for  making 
fragrant  the  air.  Certainly  his  character  had  more  of  honey 
than  of  sting,  of  rose  than  of  thorn  ;  humility  was  an 
unnecessary  addition  to  the  world's  suffering.  But  that  he 
did  not  lack  sting  or  thorn  his  own  sisters  had  discovered 
when  they  had  tried  to  keep  their  excommunicated  brother 
out  of  his  patrimony.  How  puzzled  Miriam  and  Hebekah  had 
been  by  his  forcing  them  at  law  to  give  up  the  money,  and 
then  presenting  it  to  them.  They  could  not  see  that  to  prove 
the  outcast  Jew  had  yet  his  legal  rights  was  a  duty,  the  money 
itself  a  burden.  Yes,  popular  ethics  was  sadly  to  seek,  and 
involuntarily  his  hand  stretched  itself  out  and  lovingly 
possessed  itself  of  the  ever*growing  manuscript  of  his  magnum 
opus.  His  eye  caressed  those  serried  concatenated  propo- 
sitions, resolving  and  demonstrating  the  secret  of  the  universci 
the  indirect  outcome  of  his  yearning  search  for  happiness,  for 
some  object  of  love  that  endured  amid  the  eternal  flux,  and  in 
loving  which  he  should  find  a  perfect  and  eternal  joy.  Riches, 
honour,  the  pleasures  of  sense,  these  held  no  true  and  abiding 

*  Copyright,  1898,  by  I.  Zangwill,  in  the  Unit«^d  States  of  America! 


THE   MAKER   OF  LENSES.  677 

bliss.  The  passion  with  which  Van  den  Ende's  daughter  had 
agitated  him  had  been  wisely  mastered,  unavowed.  But  in 
the  infinite  Substance  he  had  found  the  object  of  his  search, 
the  necessary  Eternal  Being  in  and  through  whom  all  else 
existed,  among  whose  infinite  attributes  were  thought  and 
extension — that  made  up  the  one  poor  Universe  known  to  man 
— whom  man  could  love  without  desiring  to  be  loved  in  return, 
secure  in  the  consciousness  he  was  not  outside  the  divine 
order.  His  book,  he  felt,  would  change  theology  into 
theonomy,  even  as  Copernicus  and  Kepler  and  Galileo  had 
changed  astrology  into  astronomy.  This  chain  of  thoughts, 
forged  link  by  link  without  rest,  without  hurry,  as  he  sat 
grinding  his  glasses  day  by  day,  and  year  by  year,  these  propo- 
sitions, laboriously  polished,  like  his  telescope  and  microscope 
lenses,  were  no  less  designed  for  the  furtherance  and  clarifica- 
tion of  human  vision. 

And  yet  not  primarily  vision.  The  first  Jew  to  create  an 
original  philosophy,  he  yet  remained  a  Jew  in  aiming,  not  at 
abstract  knowledge,  but  at  concrete  conduct,  and  was  most  of 
all  a  Jew  in  his  proclamation  of  the  Unity.  He  would  teach  a 
world,  distraught  and  divided  by  religious  strife,  the  higher 
path  of  spiritual  iblessedness,  bring  it  the  Jewish  greeting — 
peace*  But  that  he  was  typical — even  by  his  very  isolation—- 
of  the  race  that  had  cast  him  out,  he  did  not  himself  perceive, 
missing  by  his  static  philosophy  the  sense  of  historical 
enchainment  and  continuous  racial  inspiration. 

As,  however,  he  glanced  to-day  over  the  pages  of  Part 
Three— "The  Origin  and  Nature  of  the  Affects"— he  felt, 
somehow,  out  of  tune  with  this  bloodless  vivisection  of  human 
emotions,  this  chain  of  quasi-mathematical  propositions  with 
their  Euclidean  array  of  data  and  scholia,  marshalling  passions 
before  the  cold  throne  of  Intellect.  The  exorcised  image  of 
Klaartje  Van  den  Ende,  raised  again  by  the  landlady's  words, 
hovered  amid  the  demonstrations.  He  caught  gleams  of  her 
between  the  steps.  Her  perfect  Greek  face  flashed  up  and 
vanished  as  in  coquetry,  her  smile  flickered.  How  learned  she 
was,  how  wise,  how  witty,  how  beautiful  !  And  the  instant  he 
allowed  himself  to  muse  thus,  she  appeared  in  full  fascination, 
skating  superbly  on  the  frozen  canals,  or  smiling  down  at  him 


678  C08M0P0LIS. 

from  the   ancient  balustrade  of   the  window  ^surely   young 
Gerard  Dou  must  have  caught  an  inspiration  from  her  as  he 
passed  by  ! ).     What  happy  symposia  at  her  father's  house, 
when  the  classic  world  was  opening  for  the  first  time  to  the  gaze 
of  the  clogged  Talmud-student,  and  the  brilliant  cynicism  of 
the  old    doctor   combined   with   the   larger   outlook    of    his 
Christian  fellow-pupils  to  complete  his  emancipation  from  his 
native  environment.     After  the  dead  controversies  of  Hillel 
and  Shammai   in   old    Jerusalem,  how  freshening  these  live 
discussions  as  to   whether   Holland   should    have    sheltered 
Charles  Stuart  from  the  regicide  Cromwell,  or  whether  the 
iloelen-stuk  of  Rembrandt  van  Rijn  were  as  well  painted  as 
Van  Ravesteyn's.     In  the  Jewish  quarter,  though   Rembrandt 
lived  in  it,  interest  had  been  limited  to  the  guldens  earned  by 
dirty  old  men  in  sitting  to  him.    What  ardour,  too,  for  the 
newest  science,  what  worship  of    Descartes  and  deprecation 
of   the  philosophers  before  him  1     And  then  the  flavour  of 
romance,  as  of  their  own  spices,  wafted  from  the  talk  about 
the  new  colonies  in  the  Indies.     Good  God  I  had  it  been  so 
wise  to  quench  the  glow  of  youth,  to  slip  so  silently  to  forty 
year  ?     He  had  allowed  her  to  drop  out  of  his  life,  this  child 
so  early  grown  to  winning  womanhood  ;  she  was  apparently 
dead  for  him,  yet  this  sudden  idea  of  her  proximity  had  re- 
vitalised her  so  triumphantly  that  the  philosopher  wondered  at 
the  miracle,  or  at  his  own  powers  of  self-deception. 
And  who  was  this  young  man  ? 

Had  he  analysed  love  accurately  ?  He  turned  to  Propo- 
sition xxxiii. :  "  If  we  love  a  thing  which  is  like  ourselves, 
we  endeavour  as  much  as  possible  to  make  it  love  us  in  return." 
His  eye  ran  over  the  proof  with  its  impressive  summing-up. 
"  Or,  in  other  words  (Schol.,  Prop.  xiii.  pt.  3),  we  try  to 
make  it  love  us  in  return."  Unimpeachable  logic,  but  was  it 
true  ?  Had  he  tried  to  make  Klaartje  love  him  in  return  ? 
Not  unless  one  counted  the  semi-conscious  advances  of  wit- 
combats  and  intellectual  confidences  as  she  grew  up.  But  had 
he  succeeded  ?  No,  impossible,  and  his  spirits  fell,  and 
mounted  again  to  note  how  truly  their  falling  corroborated— 
by  converse  reasoning — his   next  Proposition  :  "  The  greater 


THE   MAKER   OF   LENSES.  679 

the  affect  with  which  we  imagine  that  a  beloved  object  is 
affected  towards  us  the  greater  will  be  our  self -exaltation." 
No,  she  had  never  given  him  cause  for  self-exaltation,  though 
occasionally  it  had  seemed  as  if  she  preferred  his  talk  to  that 
of  even  the  high-born  foppish  youths  sent  by  their  sires  to  sit 
at  her  father's  feet. 

In  any  case  perhaps  it  was  well  he  had  given  her  maidenly 
modesty  no  chance  of  confession.  Marriage  had  never 
loomed  as  a  possibility  for  him,  the  life  of  the  Thinker  must 
needs  shrink  from  the  complications  and  prejudices  engen- 
dered by  domestic  happiness  :  the  intellectual  love  of  God 
more  than  replaced  these  terrestrial  affections. 

But  now  a  sudden  conviction  that  nothing  could  replace 
them,  that  they  were  of  the  essence  of  personality,  wrapped 
him  round  as  with  flame.  Some  subtle  aroma  of  emotion  like 
the  waft  of  the  orange  groves  of  Burgos  in  which  his  ancestors 
had  wandered  thrilled  the  son  of  the  mists  and  marshes. 
Perhaps  it  was  only  the  conserve  of  red  roses.  At  any  rate 
that  was  useless  in  this  fever. 

He  took  up  his  tools  resolutely,  but  he  could  not  work.  He 
fell  back  on  his  rough  sketch  for  a  lucid  Algebra,  but  his 
lucid  formulae  were  a  blur.  He  went  downstairs  and  played 
with  the  delighted  children,  and  listened  to  the  landlady's 
gossip,  throwing  her  a  word  or  two  of  shrewd  counsel  on  the 
every-day  matters  that  came  up.  Presently  he  asked  her  if 
the  Van  den  Endes  had  told  her  anything  of  their  plans. 

"  Oh,  they  were  going  to  stay  at  Scheveningen  for  the  bath- 
ing.   The  second  time  they  came  up  from  there." 

His  heart  leapt.  "  Scheveningen  !  Then  they  arie  practically 
here." 

"  If  they  have  not  gone  back  to  Amsterdam." 

"  True,"  he  said,  chilled. 

"  But  why  not  go  see  ?  Henri  tramped  ten  miles  for  me 
every  Sunday." 

Spinoza  turned  away.  "  No,  they  are  probably  gone  back. 
Besides,  I  know  not  their  address." 

"  Address  !  At  Scheveningen  1  A  village  where  everybody's 
business  can  be  caught  in  one  net/* 


68o  COSMOPOLIS. 

Spinoza  was  ascending  the  stairs.     "  Nay,  it  is  too  late." 
Too  late  in  sad  verity !     What  had  a  philosopher  of  forty 
year  to  do  With  love  ? 

Back  in  his  room  he  took  up  a  lens,  but  soon  found  himself 
re-reading  his  aphorism  on  Marriage.  "  It  is  plain  that  mar* 
riage  is  in  accordance  with  reason,  if  the  desire  is  engendered 
not  merely  by  external  form,  but  by  a  love  of  begetting 
children  and  wisely  educating  them ;  and  if,  in  addition,  the 
love  both  of  the  husband  and  wife  has  for  its  cause  not  external 
form  merely,  but  chiefly  liberty  of  mind."  Assuredly,  so  far 
as  he  was  concerned,  the  desire  of  children  who  might  be  more 
rationally  and  happily  nurtured  than  himself  had  some  part  in 
his  rare  day-dreams,  and  it  was  not  merely  the  noble  form  but 
also  the  noble  soul  he  divined  in  Klaartje  van  den  Ende  that 
had  stirred  his  pulses,  and  was  now  soliciting  him  to  a  joy 
which,  like  all  joys,  would  mark  the  passage  to  a  greater  per- 
fection, a  fuller  reality.  And,  in  sooth,  how  holy  was  this 
love  of  woman  he  allowed  himself  to  feel  for  a  moment,  how 
easily  passing  over  into  the  greater  joy — the  higher  perfection 
— the  love  of  God  ! 

Why  should  he  not  marry  ?  Means  were  easily  to  hand  ! 
He  had  only  to  accept  from  his  rich  disciples  what  was  really 
the  wage  of  tuition,  though  hitherto,  like  the  old  Rabbis,  he 
had  preferred  to  teach  for  Truth's  sole  sake.  After  all,  Carl 
Ludwig  offered  him  ample  freedom  in  philosophising. 

But  he  beat  down  the  tempting  images  and  sought  relief  in 
the  problem  posited  by  Leibnitz.  In  vain  :  his  manuscript 
still  lay  open,  Proposition  xxxv.  was  under  his  eye  : 

"HI  imagine  that  an  object  beloved  by  me  is  united  to 
another  person  by  the  same,  or  by  a  closer  bond  of  friendship 
than  that  by  which  I  myself  alone  held  the  object,  I  shall  be 
affected  with  hatred  towards  the  beloved  object  itself,  and  shall 
envy  that  other  person." 

Who  was  the  young  man  ? 

He  clenched  his  teeth  :  he  had,  then,  not  yet  developed  into 
the  free  man,  redeemed  by  reason  from  the  bondage  of  the 
affects  whose  mechanic  workings  he  had  analysed  so  exhaus- 
tively.    He  was,  then,  still  as  far  fron^  liberty  of  mine}  as  the 


THE   MAKER  OK  LENSES.  68t 

peasant  who  has  never  taken  to  pieces  the  passions  that  auto- 
matically possess  him.  If  this  fever  did  not  leave  him,  he 
must  try  blood-letting  on  himself,  as  though  in  a  tertian.  He 
returned  resolutely  to  his  work.  But  when  he  had  ground  and 
polished  for  half  an  hour,  and  felt  soothed  :  "  Why  should  I 
not  go  to  Scheveningen  all  the  same  ? "  he  asked  himself. 
Why  should  he  miss  the  smallest  chance  of  seeing  his  old 
friends  who  had  taken  the  trouble  to  call  on  him  twice  ? 

Yes,  he  would  walk  to  the  hamlet  and  ponder  the  optical 
problem,  and  the  terms  in  which  to  refuse  the  Elector  Pala- 
tine's offer.  He  set  out  at  once,  forgetting  the  dangers  of 
the  streets,  and  in  reality  lulling  suspicion  by  his  fearless 
demeanour.  The  afternoon  was  closing  somewhat  mistily, 
and  an  occasional  fit  of  coughing  reminded  him  he  should 
have  had  more  than  a  falling  collar  round  his  throat,  and  a 
thicker  doublet  than  his  velvet.  He  thought  of  going  back 
for  his  camelot  cloak,  but  he  was  now  outside  the  north- 
west gate,  so,  lighting  his  pipe,  he  trudged  along  the  pleasant 
new-paved  road  that  led  betwixt  the  avenues  of  oak  and  lime 
to  Scheveningen.  He  had  little  eye  for  the  beautiful  play  of 
colour-shades  among  the  glooming  green  perspectives  on 
either  hand,  scarcely  noted  the  comely  peasant-women  with 
their  scarlet-lined  cloaks,  and  glittering  ''head-irons,"  who 
rattled  by,  packed  picturesquely  in  carts.  Half-way  to  the 
hamlet  the  brooding  pedestrian  was  startled  to  find  his  hand 
in  the  cordial  grip  of  the  very  man  he  had  gone  out  to  see. 

"  Salve,  O  Benedicte,"  joyously  cried  the  fiery-eyed  veteran. 
''  I  had  despaired  of  ever  setting  eyes  again  on  thy  black 
curls  ! "  Van  den  Ende's  own  hair  tossed  under  his  wide- 
brimmed  tapering  hat  as  wildly  as  ever,  though  it  was  now 
as  white  as  his  ruff  ;  his  blood  seemed  to  beat  as  boisterously, 
and  a  few  minutes'  conversation  sufficed  to  show  Spinoza  that 
the  old  pedagogue's  soul  was  even  more  unchanged  than 
his  body.  The  same  hilarious  atheism,  the  same  dogmatic 
disbelief,  the  same  conviction  of  human  folly,  combined  as 
illogically  as  of  yore  with  schemes  of  perfect  states  :  time 
seemed  to  have  mellowed  no  opinion,  toned  down  no 
crudity.  He  was  coming,  he  said,  to  make  a  last  hopeless 
gall  on  his    famous   pupil,   the   others  were  working.      Jhe 


682  COSMOPOLIS, 

others,  he  explained,  were  his  little  Klaartje  and  his  newest 
pupil,  Kerkkrinck,  a  rich  and  stupid  youth,  but  honest  and 
good-hearted  withal.  He  had  practically  turned  him  over  to 
Klaartje,  who  was  as  good  a  guide  to  the  humanities  as  him- 
self, more  especially  for  the  stupid.  "  She  was  too  young  in 
thy  time,  Benedict,"  concluded  the  old  man  jocosely. 

Benedict  thought  that  she  was  too  young  now  to  be  left 
instructing  good-hearted  young  men,  but  he  only  said  :  "  Yes, 
I  daresay  I  was  stupid.  One  should  cut  one's  teeth  on  Latin 
conjugations,  and  I  was  already  fourteen  with  a  full  Rabbinical 
diploma  before  I  was  even  aware  there  was  such  a  j>erson  as 
Cicero  in  history." 

'^  And  now  thou  writest  Ciceronian  Latin.  Shake  not  thv 
head — 'tis  a  compliment  to  myself,  not  to  thee.  What  if  thou 
art  sometimes  more  exact  than  elegant — fancy  what  a  coil  of 
Hebrew  cobwebs  I  had  to  sweep  out  of  that  brain-pan  of  thine, 
ere  I  transformed  thee  from  Baruch  to  Benedict." 

"  Nay,  some  of  the  webs  were  of  silk.  I  see  now  how  much 
Benedict  owes  to  Baruch.  The  Rabbinical  gymnastic  is  no 
ill  training,  though  unmethodic.  Maimonides  de-anthropo- 
morphises  God  :  the  Cabbala  grapples,  if  confusedly,  with  the 
problem  of  philosophy." 

"  Thou  didst  not  always  speak  so  leniently  of  thy  ancient 
learning.  Methinks  thou  hast  forgotten  thy  sufferings  and  the 
catalogue  of  curses.  I  would  shut  thee  up  a  week  with  Moses 
Zacut,  and  punish  you  both  with  each  other's  society.  The 
room  should  be  four  cubits  square,  so  that  he  should  be  forced 
to  disobey  the  Ban  and  be  within  four  cubits  of  thee." 

"  Thou  forgettest  to  reckon  with  the  mathematics,"  laughed 
Spinoza.  ''We  should  fly  to  opposite  ends  of  the  diagonal 
and  achieve  five  and  two-third  cubits  of  separation." 

''Ah,  fuzzle  me  not  with  thy  square  roots.  I  was  never 
a  calculator." 

"  But  Moses  Zacut  was  not  so  unbearable.  I  mind  me  he 
also  learnt  Latin  under  thee." 

"  Ay,  and  now  spits  out  to  see  me.  Fasted  forty  days  for  his 
sin  in  learning  the  devil's  language." 

"What  converted  him  ? " 

"  That  Turkish  mountebank,  I  imagine/' 


THE   MAKER  OF  LENSES.  683 

"  Sabbatai  Zevi  ?  " 

"  Yes,  he  Itill  clings  to  him,  though  the  Messiah  has  turned 
Mohammedan.  He  has  published  *  Five  Evidences  of  the 
Faith,'  expounding  that  his  Redeemer's  design  is  to  bring  over 
the  Mohammedans  to  Judaism.  Ha  I  ha !  what  a  lesson  in 
the  genesis  of  religions  1  The  elders  who  excommunicated  thee 
have  all  been  bitten  ;  a  delicious  revenge  for  thee.  Ho  !  ho  ! 
What  fools  these  mortals  be,  as  the  English  poet  says.  I  long 
to  shake  our  Christians  and  cry  'Nincompoops,  Jack-puddings, 
feather-heads,  look  in  the  eyes  of  these  Jews  and  see  your  own 
silly  selves.' " 

"  'Tis  not  the  way  to  help  or  uplift  mankind,"  said  Spinoza 
mildly.  *'  Men  should  be  imbued  with  a  sense  of  their 
strength,  not  of  their  weakness." 

"  In  other  words,"  laughed  the  Doctor,  "  the  way  to  uplift 
men  is  to  appeal  to  the  virtues  they  do  not  possess." 

"  Even  so,"  assented  Spinoza  unmoved.  "  The  virtues  they 
may  come  to  possess.  Men  should  be  taught  to  look  on  noble 
patterns,  not  on  mean." 

"  And  what  good  will  that  do  ?  Moses  Zacut  had  me  and 
thee  to  look  on,"  chuckled  the  old  man.  "  No,  Benedict,  I 
believe  with  Solomon,  '  Answer  a  fool  according  to  his  folly.' 
Thou  art  too  half-hearted  ;  thou  deniest  God  like  a  serving- 
man  who  says  his  master  is  out ;  thou  leavest  a  hope  he  may 
be  there  all  the  while.  One  should  play  bowls  with  the  holy 
idols." 

Spinoza  perceived  it  was  useless  to  make  the  old  man  under- 
stand how  little  their  ideas  coincided.  "  I  would  rather 
uplift  than  overturn,"  he  said  mildly. 

The  old  sceptic  laughed  :  "  A  wonder  thou  art  not  sub- 
scribing to  uplift  the  Third  Temple,"  he  cried.  "So  they  call 
this  new  synagogue  they  are  building  in  Amsterdam  with  such 
to-do." 

"  Indeed  ?  I  had  not  heard  of  it.  If  I  could  hope  it  were 
indeed  the  Third  Temple,"  and  a  mystic  light  shone  in  his 
eyes,  "  I  would  subscribe  all  I  had." 

"  Thou  art  the  only  Christian  I  have  ever  known  1 "  said 
Van  den  Ende  half  niockingly,  half  tenderly.  "And  thou  ^rt 
a  Jew," 


684  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  So  was  Christ." 

"  True,  one  forgets  that.  But  the  roles  are  becoming  nicely 
reversed.  Thou  forgivest  thine  enemies,  and  in  Amsterdam  'tis 
the  Jews  who  are  going  to  the  Christians  to  borrow  money  for 
this  synagogue  of  theirs  !  " 

"  How  is  the  young  juffrouw  ?  "  asked  Spinoza  at  last, 

"  Klaartje  !  She  blooms  like  a  Jan  de  Heem  flower-piece. 
This  rude  air  has  made  a  rose  of  my  lily.  Her  cheeks  might 
have  convinced  the  imbeciles  who  took  away  their  practice 
from  poor  old  Dr.  Harvey.  One  can  sec  her  blood  circulating. 
By  the  way,  thy  old  crony,  Dr.  Ludwig  Meyer,  bade  me  give 
thee  his  love." 

"  Dost  think  she  will  remember  me  ?  " 

"  Remember  thee,  Benedict  ?  Did  she  not  send  me  to  thee 
to-day  ?  Thy  name  is  ever  on  those  rosy  lips  of  hers — to  lash 
dull  pupils  withal.  How  thou  didst  acquire  half  the  tongues 
of  Europe  in  less  time  than  they  master  rwrw."  Spinoza 
allowed  his  standing  desire  to  cough  to  find  satisfaction.  He 
turned  his  head  aside  and  held  his  hand  before  his  mouth. 
"  We  quarrel  about  thy  *  Tractatus ' — she  and  I — for  of  course 
she  recognised  thine  olden  argumentations  just  as  I  recognised 
my  tricks  of  style." 

"  She  reads  me,  then  ?  " 

"As  a  Lutheran  his  Bible.  'Twas  partially  her  hope  of 
threshing  out  certain  difficulties  with  thee  that  decided  us  on 
Scheveningen.  I  do  not  say  that  the  forest  which  poor  Paul 
Potter  painted  was  not  a  rival  attraction." 

A  joy  beyond  the  bounds  of  Reason  was  swelling  the 
philosopher's  breast.  Unconsciously  his  step  quickened.  He 
encouraged  his  companion  to  chatter  more  about  his  daughter, 
how  Van  Ter  Borch  had  made  of  her  one  of  his  masterpieces 
in  white  satin,  how  she  herself  dabbled  daintily  in  all  the  fine 
arts ;  but  the  old  man  diverged  irrevocably  into  politics, 
breathed  fire  and  fury  against  the  French,  spoke  of  his  near 
visit  to  Paris  on  a  diplomatic  errand,  and,  growing  more 
confidential,  hinted  of  a  great  scheme,  an  insurrection  in 
Normandy,  Admiral  Tromp  to  swoop  down  on  Quillebceuf,  a 
Platonic  republic  to  be  reared  on  the  ruins  of  the  French 
Monarchy.    Had  Spinoza  seen  the  shadow  of  a  shs^meful  death 


THE   MAKER  OF  LENSES.  685 

hovering  over  the  spirited  veteran,  had  he  foreknown  that  the 
poor  old  gentleman — tool  of  two  desperate  rou^s  and  zfemme 
galanfe — was  to  be  executed  in  Paris  for  this  very  conspiracy, 
the  words  that  sounded  so  tediously  in  his  ear  would  have 
taken  on  a  tragic  dignity. 

They  approached  the  village  whose  huts  loomed  solemnly 
between  the  woods  and  the  dunes  in  the  softening  twilight. 
The  Van  den  Endes  were  lodged  with  the  captain  of  a  fishing- 
smack  in  a  long  narrow  wooden  house  with  sloping  mossy 
tiles  and  small-paned  windows.  The  old  man  threw  open 
the  door  of  the  little  shell-decorated  parlour  and  peered  in. 
"  Klaartje ! "  his  voice  rang  out.  A  parrot  from  the  Brazils 
screamed,  but  Spinoza  only  heard  the  soft  "  Yes,  father,"  that 
came  sweetly  from  some  upper  region. 

"  Guess  whom  I've  brought  thee  ! " 

"  Benedict  ! "  She  flew  down,  a  vision  of  loveliness  and 
shimmering  silk  and  white  pearls.  Spinoza's  hand  trembled 
in  hers  that  gleamed  snowily  from  the  ruffled  half-sleeve  ;  the 
soft  warmth  burnt  away  philosophy !  They  exchanged  the 
common-places  of  the  situation. 

"  But  where  is  Kerkkrinck  ?  "asked  the  doctor. 

"  At  his  toilette."  She  exchanged  a  half-smile  with  Spinoza, 
who  thrilled  deliciously. 

"Then  I'll  go  make  mine,"  cried  her  father.  "We  sup  in 
half  an  hour,  Benedict.  Thou'lt  stay— we  go  to-morrow.  'Tis 
the  last  supper."  And,  laughing  as  if  he  had  achieved  a  blas- 
phemy, and  unconscious  of  the  shadow  of  doom,  the  gay  old 
freethinker  disappeared. 

As  Klaartje  spoke  of  his  book  with  sparkling  eyes,  and  dis- 
cussed points  in  a  low  musical  voice,  something  crude  and 
elemental  flamed  in  the  philosopher,  something  called  to  him 
to  fuse  himself  with  the  universal  life,  more  tangibly  than 
through  the  intellect.  His  doubts  and  vacillations  fled  ;  he 
must  speak  now,  or  the  hour  and  the  mood  would  never  recur. 
If  he  could  only  drag  the  conversation  from  the  philosophical. 
By  aside  door  it  escaped  of  itself  into  the  personal ;  her  father 
did  not  care  to  take  her  with  him  to  Paris,  spoke  of  possible 
dangers,  and  hinted  it  was  time  she  was  off  his  hands.  There 
seemed  a  confession  trembling  in  her  laughing  qye.    It  gave 


686  COSMOPOLIS. 

him  courage  to  seize  her  fingers,  to  falter  a  request  thit  she 
would  come  to  him — to  Heidelberg !  The  brightness  died 
suddenly  out  of  her  face  :  it  looked  drawn  and  white. 

After  a  palpitating  silence  she  said  :  "  But  thou  art  a  Jew  ! " 

He  was  taken  aback,  he  let  her  fingers  drop.  From  his 
parched  throat  came  the  words  :  "  But  thou  art — no  Chris- 
tian." 

"  I  know  ;  but  nevertheless.  Oh,  I  never  dreamed  of  anything 
of  this  with  thee  ;  'twas  all  of  the  brain,  the  soul." 

"Soul  and  body  are  but  one  fact." 

"  Women  are  not  philosophers.     I "  She  stopped.     Her 

fingers  played  nervously  with  the  pearl  necklace  that  rose  and 
fell  on  her  bosom.  He  found  himself  noting  its  details,  won- 
dering that  she  had  developed  such  extravagant  tastes.  Then, 
awaking  to  her  distress,  he  said  quietly,  "  Then  there  is  no  hope 
for  me  ?  " 

Her  face  retained  its  look  of  pain. 

"  Not   ever  ?    You   could  never ?  "     His  cough  shook 

him. 

"  If  there  had  been  no  other "  she  murmured,  and  her 

eye  drooped  half-apologetically  towards  the  necklace. 

The  bitterness  of  death  was  in  his  soul.  He  had  a  sudden 
ironic  sense  of  a  gap  in  his  mathematical  philosophy.  He  had 
fathomed  the  secret  of  Being,  had  analysed  and  unified  all 
things  from  everlasting  to  everlasting,  yet  here  was  an  isolated 
force — a  woman's  will — that  stood  obstinately  between  him 
and  happiness.  He  seemed  to  visualise  it,  behind  her  serious 
face,  per\'ersely  mocking. 

The  handle  of  the  door  turned,  and  a  young  man  came  in. 
He  was  in  the  pink  of  fashion,  a  mantle  of  Venetian  silk  dis- 
posed in  graceful  folds  about  his  handsome  person,  his  neck- 
cloth of  Flanders  lace,  his  knee-breeches  of  satin,  his  shoes 
gold-buckled,  his  dagger  jewelled.  Energy  flashed  from  his 
eye,  vigour  radiated  from  his  every  movement. 

"  Ah,  Diedrich  I "  she  cried,  as  her  face  lit  up  with  more 
than  relief.  "  Here  is  Heer  Spinoza  at  last.  This  is  Heer 
Kerkkrinck ! " 

"  Spinoza  I  "  A  thrill  of  awe  was  in  the  young  man's  voice, 
the  reverence  of  the  consciously  stupid  for  the  great  bniinji 


THE  MAKER  OP   LENSES.  687 

of  the  earth.     He  did  not  take  Spinoza's  outstretched  hand 
in  his,  but  put  it  to  his  lips. 

The  lonely  thinker  and  the  happy  lover  stood  thus  for  an 
instant,  envying  and  admiring  each  other.  Then  Spinoza  said 
cordially,  "  And  now  that  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting 
Herr  Kerkkrinck,  I  must  hurry  back  to  town  ere  the  road 
grows  too  dark." 

*'  But  father  expects  thee  to  sup  with  us,"  murmured 
Klaartje. 

"  'Tis  a  moonless  night,  and  footpads  may  mistake  me  for 
a  Jew."     He  smiled.     "  Make  my  apologies  to  the  Doctor." 

It  was  indeed  a  moonless  night,  but  he  did  not  make  for  the 
high  road.     Instinctively  he  turned  seawards. 

A  slight  mist  brooded  over  the  face  of  all  things,  adding  to 
the  night,  bhirring  the  village  to  a  few  gleams  of  fire.  On  the 
broad  sandy  beach  he  could  just  see  the  outlines  of  the  boats 
and  the  fishing-nets.  He  leaned  against  the  gunwale  of  a  pink, 
inhaling  the  scents  of  tar  and  brine,  and  watching  the  apparent 
movement  seaward  of  some  dark  sailing-vessel,  which,  despite 
the  great  red  anchor  at  his  feet,  seemed  to  sail  outwards  as 
each  wave  came  in. 

The  sea  stretched  away,  soundless,  moveless,  and  dark,  save 
where  it  broke  in  white  foam  at  his  feet ;  near  the  horizon  a 
pitch-black  wall  of  cloud  seemed  to  rise  sheer  from  the  water, 
and  join  the  grey  sky  that  arched  over  the  great  flat  spaces* 
And  in  the  absence  of  stars,  the  earth  itself  seemed  to  gain  in 
vastness  and  mystery,  its  own  awfulness,  as  it  sped  round, 
unlessened  by  those  endless  perspectives  of  vaster  planets* 
And  from  the  soundless  night  and  sea  and  sky,  and  from  those 
austere  and  solemn  stretches  of  sand  and  forest,  wherein  forms 
and  colours  were  lost  in  a  brooding  unity,  there  came  to 
Spinoza  a  fresh  uplifting  sense  of  the  infinite  timeless  Sub- 
stance, to  love  and  worship  which  was  exaltation  and  ecstasy* 
The  lonely  thinker  communed  with  the  lonely  Being* 

*'  Though  He  slay  me,"  his  heart  whispered,  "  yet  will  I  trust 
in  Him." 

Yea,  though  the  wheels  of  tilings  had  passed  over  his  body, 
it  was  still  his  to  rejoice  in  the  eternal  movement  that  brought 
happiness  to  others. 


688  COSMDPOLIS. 

Others  !    How  full  the  world  was  of  existences,  each  perfect 
after  its  kind,  the  laws  of  God's  nature  freely  producing  every 
conception  of  His  infinite  intellect.     In  man  alone  how  many 
genera,  species,  individuals — from  saints  to  criminals,  from  old 
philosophers  to  gallant  young  livers,  all  to  be  understood,  none 
to  be  hated.     And  man  but  a  fraction  of  the  life  of  one  little 
globe,  that  turned  not  on  man's  axis,  nor  moved  wholly  to 
man's  ends.    This  sea  that  stretched  away  unheaving  was  not 
sublimely  dead,  even  to  the  vulgar  apprehension,  but  pene- 
trated with  quivering  sensibility,  the  exquisite  fresh  feeling  of 
fishes  darting  and  gliding,  tingling  with  life  in  fin  and  tail, 
chasing  and  chased,  zestfully  eating  or  swiftly  eaten  ;  in  the  air 
the  ecstasy  of  flight,  on  the  earth  the  happy  movements  of 
animals,  the  very  dust  palpitating  pleasurably  with  crawling 
and   creeping   populations,  the  soil  riddled  with  the  sluggish 
voluptuousness    of   worms ;    each   tiniest   creature   a   perfect 
expression   of  the  idea  of  its  essence,  individualised    by   its 
cofiatus,  its   effort  to  persist  in  existence  on   its   own   lines, 
though  in  man  alone   the  potentiality  of  entering  through 
selfless  reason  into  the  intellectual  ecstasy  of  the  love  with 
which  God  loves  Himself — to  be  glad  of  the  strength  of  the 
lion,  and  the  grace  of  the  gazelle,  and  the  beauty  of  the  woman 
who  belongs  to  another.    Blessings  on  the  happy  lovers,  bless- 
ings on  all  the  wonderful  creation ;  praise,  praise  to  the  Eternal 
Being,  whose  modes  body  forth  the  everlasting  pageant. 

Beginningless  aeons  before  his  birth  It  had  been — the  great 
pageant  to  whose  essence  Being  belonged — endless  asons  after 
his  ephemeral  passing  It  would  still  throb  and  glow,  still  offer 
to  the  surrendered  human  soul  the  supreme  uplift.  He  had 
but  a  moment  to  contemplate  It;  yet  to  understand  Its  essence, 
to  know  the  great  laws  of  Its  working,  to  see  It  67/6  specie 
ctternitatis,  was  to  partake  of  Its  eternity.  There  was  no  need 
to  journey  either  in  space  or  time  to  discover  Its  movement, 
everywhere  the  same,  as  perfect  in  the  remotest  past  as  in  the 
furthest  future,  by  no  means  working — as  the  vulgar  imagined 
— to  a  prospective  perfection  ;  everywhere  educed  from  the 
same  enduring  necessities  of  the  divine  freedom.  Progress  ! 
As  illusory  as  the  movement  of  yon  little  vessel,  that,  anchored 
stably,  seemed  always  sailing  out  towards  the  horizon. 


tftE   MAkER  OI^  LENSES.  689 

And  so  in  that  trance  of  adoration,  in  that  sacred  Glory,  in 
that  rapturous  consciousness  that  he  had  fought  his  last  fight 
with  the  enslaving  affects,  there  formed  themselves  in  his  soul 
— white  heat  at  one  with  white  light — the  last  sentences  of  his 
great  work  : 

**  We  see,  then,  what  is  the  strength  of  the  wise  man,  and  by 
how  much  he  surpasses  the  ignorant  who  is  driven  forward  by 
lust  alone.  For  the  ignorant  man  is  not  only  agitated  by  ex- 
ternal causes  in  many  ways,  and  never  enjoys  true  peace  of 
soul,  but  lives  also  ignorant,  as  it  were,  both  of  God  and  of 
things,  and  as  soon  as  he  ceases  to  suffer,  ceases  also  to  be.  On 
the  other  hand,  the  wise  man  is  scarcely  ever  moved  in  his 
mind,  but  being  conscious  by  a  certain  eternal  necessity  of 
himself,  of  God,  and  of  things,  never  ceases  to  be,  and  always 
enjoys  true  peace  of  soul.  If  the  way  which  leads  hither  seem 
very  difficult,  it  can  nevertheless  be  found.  It  must  indeed  be 
difficult,  since  it  is  so  seldom  discovered  ;  for,  if  salvation  lay 
ready  to  hand  and  could  be  discovered  without  great  labour, 
how  could  it  be  possible  that  it  should  be  neglected  almost  by 
everybody  ?  But  all  noble  things  are  as  difficult  as  they  are 
rare." 

So  ran  the  words  that  were  not  to  die. 

Suddenly  a  halo  on  the  upper  edge  of  the  black  cloud 
heralded  the  struggling  through  of  the  moon  ;  she  shot  out  a 
crescent,  reddish  in  the  mist,  then  laboured  into  her  full  orb, 
well-nigh  golden  as  the  sun* 

Spinoza  started  from  his  reverie  ;  his  doublet  was  wet  with 
dew,  he  felt  the  mist  in  his  throat.  He  coughed  ;  then  it  was 
;is  if  the  salt  of  the  air  had  got  into  his  mouth,  and,  as  he  spat 
out  the  blood,  he  knew  he  would  not  remain  long  sundered 
from  the  Eternal  Unity. 

But  there  is  nothing  on  which  a  free  man  will  meditate  less 
than  on  death.  Desirous  to  write  down  what  was  in  his  mind, 
Spinoza  turned  from  the  sea  and  pursued  his  peaceful  path 
homewards* 

1.  Zangwill. 


THE  GLOBE  AND  THE   ISLAND. 


London,  February  21. 

Thk  past  month  has  seen  us  still  engaged  in  fingering  the 
Chinese  puzzle,  and  its  end  does  not  see  the  solution  much 
nearer.  The  fatuity,  however,  with  which  our  Foreign  Office 
handles  its  affairs  has  received  a  new  and  grotesque  illustration. 
The  British  Government,  as  I  described  last  month,  ofiFered  to 
China  a  loan,  one  of  the  conditions  of  which  was  the  opening 
of  the  harbour  of  Talienwan,  without  which  Port  Arthur, 
having  but  a  very  small  harbour,  would  be  useless  as  a  naval 
base.  The  Government  were  very  angry  with  The  Times  for 
publishing  these  facts,  but  the  country  was  well  pleased. 
Unfortunately  it  completely  misunderstood  the  situation,  in 
some  inexplicable  manner  jumping  to  the  conclusion  that 
England  had  demanded  from  China  the  opening  of  Talienwan« 
For  days  Liberal  and  Conservative  newspapers  vied  with  each 
other  in  supporting  what  they  thus  descril)ed  as  Lord  Salis^ 
bury's  demand*  The  few  voices  which  were  raised  to  point 
out  the  inaccuracy  were  drowned  in  the  enthusiastic 
applause.  On  the  5th  inst.  I  published  a  signed  letter 
endeavouring  to  point  out  the  "singular  misapprehension'* 
which  prevailed.  Not,  however,  until  the  8th,  when  Lord 
Salisbury  in  the  House  of  Lords  declared  that  an  "extra- 
ordinary confusion  of  thought"  had  arisen,  was  the  point 
generally  understood,  and  by  that  time  the  harm  had  been 
done,  for  The  Times  correspondent  at  Peking  had  telegraphed 
that  Great  Britain  withdrew  its  demand  for  the  opening  of 
Talienwan,  and  almost  the  whole  Press  swung  round  from 
enthusiasm  to  severe  criticism  of  Lord  Salisbury,  the  lead  in  this 
being  taken  by  the  Conservative  Standard.  The  opening  of 
Talienwan  was,  of  course,  merely  a  condition  attached  to  the 


THE  GLOBE  AND  THE   ISLAND.  69 1 

Loan.  As  soon  as  China  declined  the  Loan,  which  she  did  under 
Russian  pressure,  the  question  of  Talienwan  lapsed.  Yet  for  a 
fortnight  the  Foreign  Office  positively  allowed  this  "  confusion 
of  thought "  to  prevail,  and  even  to  reach  a  point  at  which 
public  opinion  threatened  to  imperil  the  Government,  and  all 
for  the  want  of  half  a  dozen  words  being  uttered  to  explain 
the  situation.  The  Foreign  Office  under  its  present  head 
might  positively  be  in  Timbuctoo  for  all  it  has  to  do  with 
public  opinion  in  this  country  and  the  natural  desire  for 
information — and,  indeed,  the  right  within  limits  to  have 
information — on  the  part  of  the  people  who  pay  for  it,  and 
whose  servant  it  is.  Had  Parliament  not  met  and  Lord 
Salisbury  thus  been  compelled  to  speak,  1  suppose  even  the 
organs  of  his  own  Government  would  still  be  engaged  in 
denouncing  him  for  withdrawing  a  demand  which  he  never 
made,  but  which  his  aloofness  from  popular  feeling  and  his 
Elizabethan  dignity  prevent  him  from  explaining. 

Nor  is  this  all.  When  the  leaders  of  the  Government 
spoke  in  the  Lords  and  the  Commons,  they  positively  contra- 
dicted each  other.  Lord  Salisbury  said,  referring  to  the  Loan  : 
"  1  am  not  going  through  the  proposals  ;  the  negotiations  are 
not  concluded,  and  it  would  not  be  right  for  me  to  do  so." 
Mr.  Balfour  said  :  "  The  whole  transaction  is  now  a  matter  of 
ancient  history.  1  mean  the  Loan  negotiations ;  they  do  not 
ask  for  the  Loan,  and  there  is  an  end  of  it."  What  on  earth 
are  the  unfortunate  people  of  Great  Britain  to  make  of 
delicate  and  complicated  matters  of  foreign  relations  when 
their  two  leaders  cannot  attempt  to  supply  public  information 
without  flatly  contradicting  each  other  ?  Furthermore,  the 
Government  declared  that  it  had  received  written  assurances 
from  both  the  German  and  Russian  Governments  that  anv 
port  in  China  secured  by  either  shall  be  open  to  the  trade  of 
the  whole  wotld.  Lord  Salisbury's  statement,  however,  was 
not  at  all  confirmed  by  the  words  of  Herr  von  Biilow,  the 
German  Foreign  Minister.  On  the  contrary,  he  sjiid  :  "In 
my  opinion  the  position  of  Kiao-chao  as  a  free  port  will^best 
serve  Germany's  interests  ;  yet  1  should  not  bind  myself 
beforehand,  and  especially  not  with  regard  to  foreign  countries." 
What,  then,  are  we  to  make  of  this  further  situation  -Lord 

VOL.  IX.— HO.  XXVII.  6 


692  COSMOPOLIS. 

Salisbury  declaring  that  he  has  a  written  assurance  from  the 
German  Government,  and  the  German  Government  officially 
declaring  that  it  declines  to  bind  itself  ?  As  regards  Russia, 
the  situation  is  not  much  better.  By  the  Treaty  of  Berlin 
Russia  solemnly  bound  herself  not  to  fortify  Batum.  The 
moment  it  was  convenient  for  her  to  do  so,  and  inconvenient 
for  other  nations  to  prevent  her,  Batum  became  a  fortified  mxz\ 
base,  and  even  now  the  most  strenuous  efforts  are  being 
made  to  remove  all  mercantile  traffic  from  it. 

When  so  solemn  and  public  a  treaty,  therefore,  does  not 
bind  Russia,  it  would  need  superlative  optimism  to  believe 
that  her  action  in  a  much  more  remote  part  of  the  world  would 
be  hampered  by  any  private  assurance  she  might  have  given. 
She  is  making  herself  at  home  in  Port  Arthur,  she  is  building 
a  railway  to  connect  it  with  Siberia.  Her  troops  are  already 
in  Manchuria ;  her  influence  upon  the  Government  at 
Peking  was  sufficient  to  terrify  the  Chinese  into  refusing  the 
British  Loan  ;  and  her  demands  increase  daily.  So  far  as  she 
is  concerned,  her  position  remains  exactly  what  it  was,  and 
Lord  Salisbury  has  done  nothing  to  strengthen  the  position 
of  this  country.  The  Foreign  Office,  always  emulating  the 
eloquence  of  the  oyster,  affords  no  other  information,  and  the 
country  is  ignorant  whether  anything  has  been  accomplished 
in  other  directions.  Renter's  Peking  correspondent  telegraphed 
that  the  British  Government  had  received  permission  from 
China  to  prolong  the  Burma  Railway  into  Yunnan.  It 
is  now  known  that  this  was  an  error,  and  that  no  such 
permission  has  been  given.  The  Times  correspondent  at 
Peking  has  just  telegraphed  that  China  is  prepared  to 
throw  open  all  her  inland  waters  to  navigation,  and  that  she 
will  open  a  port  in  the  most  anti-foreign  province  of  Hunan 
within  a  short  time.  I  know  China  too  well  to  believe  any 
such  statement  one  step  in  advance  of  the  fait  accompli.  Any- 
one who  remembers  the  years  of  struggle  with  China  hetore 
Mr.  Little  could  avail  himself  of  his  British  treaty  right  to  run 
a  little  steamer  to  Ichang,  on  the  Upper  Yangtse,  will  expect 
to  vsitness  the  exploits  of  Jabberwocky  about  the  same  time 
that  foreign  steamers  are  peacefully  plying  upon  the  inland 
waters  of  China,     I  have  excellent  reason  to  believe  that  the 


THE  GLOBE   AND  THE   ISLAND.  693 

negotiations  for  a  loan  are  proceeding,  and  our  policy  may  yet 
be  crowned  with  success ;  but  up  to  the  moment  of  writing, 
this  month  of  national  anxiety  and  the  shaking  of  the  British 
"mailed  fist"  has  only  brought  us  this  step  forward — that 
two  more  battleships  are  on  their  way  to  the  China  seas. 
I  will  only  add  two  little  warnings  which  appear  to  have 
escaped  popular  consideration.  First,  that  while  we  are  so 
busily  discussing  what  Great  Britain,  Russia,  Germany,  and 
France  are  doing,  will  do,  or  might  do  in  China,  we  are 
curiously  omitting  all  reference  to  what  Japan  may  do.  Japan, 
let  it  suffice  for  the  moment  to  say,  has  extremely  clear  ideas 
upon  this  point.  Second,  it  is  unwise  to  exclude  from  the 
scope  of  our  calculations  the  possibility  that  a  revolution  in 
China  may  suddenly  upset  everything.  All  the  genius  and 
courage  of  Gordon  barely  succeeded  in  saving  the  dynasty 
during  the  Taiping  Rebellion,  and  a  revolution  started  now  in 
Central  or  Southern  China  would  spread  like  wildfire,  and  the 
Manchu  dynasty,  if  left  to  its  own  resources,  would  collapse 
like  a  haystack  in  a  flood. 

« 
The  public  mind  is  now  fully  alive  to  the  danger  in  West 
Africa.     Mr.  Balfour  has  described   the   situation   as  one  of 
"  very  serious  gravity,"  and  Mr.  Chamberlain  summarised  it  as 
follows : — 

In  these  two  colonies  [Gold  Coast  and  Lagos],  the  interior  country 
which  we  believe  to  be  our  own  without  a  shadow  of  doubt,  and  which 
we  honestly  thought  we  had  secured  by  treaties  made,  before  any  other 
Power  entered  even  into  the  territory,  with  the  chiefs  and  rulers — our 
claims  to  these  territories  are  now  contested ;  countries  which  we 
thought  our  own  have  been  invaded  and  over-run ;  the  chiefs  who  relied 
upon  us  liave  been  deposed  or  killed,  and  others  are  appeaUng  to  us  for 
the  protection  which  they  believe  we  have  promised  them. 

And  four  days  ago  the  Government  permitted  the  debate  on 
the  Address  to  be  stopped  while  Mr.  Chamberlain  read  to  the 
House  of  Commons  two  telegrams,  one  telling  how  a  French 
force  ordered  a  non-commissioned  officer  to  haul  down  the 
British  flag  at  Boria,  in  the  Lagos  Hinterland,  a  demand  of 
course  refused  ;  the  other  from  Major  Northcote,  in  the  Gold 
Coast  Hinterland,  giving  information  that  a  French  force,  with 
four  French  officers,  had  established  a  post  at  Wa,  passing  a 


694  COSMOPOLIS. 

British  post  in  order  to  do  so,  in  defiance  of  Major  Northcote's 
protest. 

Upon  the  judicial  aspect  of  this  dispute  I  wrote  at  length  in 
COSMOPOLIS  for  November.  Nothing  new  has  happened  since 
then,  except  further  French  aggression,  the  rapid  reinforcement 
of  British  troops  there,  and  a  general  realisation  in  England  of 
the  danger  of  war.  The  facts  are  that  the  French  have  hardly 
any  case  at  all ;  that  they  have  several  times  changed  their 
demands,  and  even  deliberately  put  forward  as  valid  now 
principles  which  they  themselves  declared  invalid  previously ; 
that  some  of  their  contentions — as,  for  example,  that  the  Say- 
Barua  line  agreed  upon  in  1890  was  to  prevent  us  from 
going  north,  but  not  to  prevent  them  from  coming  south  ; 
and  that  their  "sacrifices"  in  invading  territory  British  by 
treaty  entitle  them  to  compensation — ^are  childish  ;  that  they 
have  deliberately  compelled  African  chiefs  to  destroy  and 
repudiate  treaties  previously  concluded  with  us  ;  and  that 
their  very  statement  of  their  own  case  is  in  flat  contradiction 
to  existing  agreements  between  us  and  them— as,  for  instance, 
in  the  sentence  from  the  TempSj  in  reply  to  Mr.  Chamberlain, 
that  "  Boria  is  well  within  French  territory,  since  we  have 
taken  possession  of  Kayoma,  and  have  a  military  post  and  a 
resident  there,  just  as  we  have  throughout  the  country  north 
of  the  ninth  parallel  up  to  Say  "  ! 

While  I  am  writing  comes  the  most  serious  news  of  all, 
namely,  that  two  French  expeditions  are  advancing  towards 
Sokoto,  and  that  six  officers,  with  a  force  of  200  men,  are  at 
Argungu  and  Jegga.  The  Sultan  of  Sokoto,  it  is  added,  has 
commanded  them  to  halt  forty  miles  from  the  capital.  Mr. 
William  Wallace,  the  Agent-General  of  the  Royal  Niger  Com- 
pany, is  holding  the  Company's  forces,  with  ammunition  and 
stores,  in  readiness,  awaiting  instructions  to  advance  to  assist 
the  Sultan,  and  secure  the  French  evacuation  of  British  terri- 
tory. The  best  and  sufficient  comment  to  be  made  upon  this 
piece  of  news  is  found  in  the  words  of  the  Agreement  of  1890 
between  Great  Britain  and  France,  wherein  it  is  declared  that 
the  Say-Barua  line  should  be  so  drawn  as  to  leave  to  England 
"  all  that  properly  belongs  to  the  Empire  of  Sokoto."  Once 
more,  if  this  news  be  true,  and  Mr.  Chamberlain  has  received 


THE  GLOBE  AND  THE   ISLAND.  695 

confirmation  of  it,  we  are  face  to  face  with  a  most  wilful  breach 
of  our  treaty  rights  by  France. 

What  does  it  mean,  and  why  has  France  so  suddenly 
become  more  aggressive  ?  Of  course,  she  has  secured 
diplomatic  triumphs  before  by  simply  pushing  British  rights 
aside  in  the  confident  belief,  so  fully  justified  by  Lord 
Salisbury,  that  we  should  do  nothing,  that  she  is  naturally 
led  to  try  the  same  game  once  more.  Fortunately,  however, 
Mr.  Chamberlain  has  this  affair  in  hand.  He  is  not  so  easy 
to  "  bluff  "  ;  by  wisely  taking  the  country  into  his  confidence 
he  has  secured  a  unanimous  national  assurance  of  support ; 
and  he  is  not  alone  in  the  Cabinet  on  this  question.  But 
the  sudden  stiffening  of  the  French  aggressive  attitude, 
regarded  in  connection  with  the  large  mobilisation  of  native 
troops  in  Tongking,  inevitably  suggests  a  further  explanation. 
The  development  of  the  Zola  trial— upon  which  I  offer  no 
comment  beyond  this — is  causing  grave  alarm  to  the  Ministry 
of  M.  Meline,  and  in  even  more  permanent  and  influential 
quarters.  When  a  point  had  been  reached  when  the  whole 
truth  could  not  be  much  longer  ignored  by  the  French  public 
and  the  world,  the  Chief  of  the  General  Staff  of  the  French 
army,  in  full  uniform,  was  sent  to  the  Assize  Court,  after 
a  consultation  between  the  President  and  the  Cabinet, 
solemnly  to  inform  the  jury  — the  name  and  address  of  every 
member  of  which  is  published  daily  in  a  Paris  paper — that 
if  they  acquitted  M.  Zola  the  General  Staff  would  resign. 
Moreover,  Major  Esterhazy,  summoned  by  the  civil  authorities 
to  the  witness-box,  absolutely  refused  to  utter  a  word,  and  was 
allowed  to  take  this  course.  That  is,  exactly  half  a  century 
to  a  day  after  the  birth  of  the  Revolution  of  1848,  France  is  ruled 
by  a  military  autocracy,  to  which  even  the  course  of  justice 
must  bow.  Nobody  can  tell  what  may  be  the  outcome  in 
France  itself  of  so  astounding  a  policy.  Therefore,  the  temp- 
tation to  save  the  situation  by  a  diversion  in  foreign  affairs  is 
great  and  urgent.  Let  the  French  people  be  once  plunged 
into  an  acute  crisis  with  a  foreign  country,  and  their  patriotism 
will  cause  them  to  shelve  all  other  issues,  and  stand  shoulder 
to  shoulder  against  the  common  enemy.  It  is  not  surprising, 
therefore,  that  many  people  should  believe  this  is  being  done. 


6qf)  COSMOPOLIS. 

At  such  a  moment  everyone  must  desire  to  speak  with  calm- 
ness and  avoid  offence.  But  at  the  same  time  it  would  be 
foolish  to  be  silent  altogether,  or  to  indite  those  common- 
places of  sentiment  which  have  done  so  much  harm  in  the 
past.  Therefore  the  French  people  should  know  that  if  it  is 
really  the  plan  of  their  rulers  to  provoke  Great  Britain,  there 
is  a  very  strong  party  here,  both  official  and  unofficial,  only 
too  ready  to  meet  them  half-way.  With  a  full,  sense  of 
responsibility,  I  may  say  that  I  have  known  for  some  time  past 
that  the  policy  of  allowing  our  relations  with  France  to  drift 
into  war,  and  then  cutting  all  the  knots  at  once  with  the  sword, 
is  very  influentially  held  in  high  quarters,  alike  political. 
naval,  and  military,  the  twofold  ground  being  that  we  have 
never  been  so  strong  before  vis-d-vis  France,  and  that  it  has 
become  abundantly  clear  no  amicable  and  durable  arrange- 
ment can  be  reached  with  her.  It  is  well  that  this  should  be 
appreciated  on  the  other  side  of  the  Channel.  It  is  certain  that 
our  concessions  in  West  Africa  will  only  be  trifling  ;  the  nego- 
tiations proceeding  in  Paris  have  made  no  progress  whatever  ; 
if  France  desires  war  she  can  easily  have  it ;  and  the  responsi- 
bility will  be  with  her.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  she  wishes 
peace,  she  has  only  to  act  as  peace-desiring  and  treaty-respecting 
nations  act,  and  nobody  will  dream  of  disturbing  it.  Sokoto 
and  the  banks  of  the  Niger  are  the  important  points,  and  for 
these  we  should  quite  certainly  fight.  Nikki  may  be  given  up. 
For  my  own  part,  however,  I  do  not  accept  the  "  diversion  " 
theory  mentioned  above  ;  I  regard  the  French  attitude  as  mere 
unscrupulous  "  bluff " ;  I  have  perfect  confidence  in  Mr. 
Chamberlain  in  this  matter  ;  and,  as  I  think  France  will  give 
way,  I  do  not  expect  war  just  yet.  But  I  know  quite  well  that 
we  are  very  near  it  to-day. 

« 

It  is  not  too  much  to  say  that  considerable  anxiety  in  England 
followed  Mr.  Rennell  Rodd's  Mission  to  the  Emperor  of 
Abyssinia  last  year,  and  awaited  his  Report.  The  great  efforts 
made  by  Russia  to  obtain  influence  in  Ethiopia  ;  the  boasts  of 
France  concerning  the  predominant  authority  she  had 
acquired  over  the  "  King  of  Kings "  ;  the  tactics  to  be 
confidently  anticipated  from  the  expedition  being  organised 


THE   GLOBE   AND  THE   ISLAND.  697 

by  Prince  Henry  of  Orleans  and  Count  Leontieff  to  administer 
some  vague  province  of  equatorial  Abyssinia,  together  with 
the  undoubted  power  of  Menelik,  and  his  vastly  increased 
estimation  of  his  power  since  his  complete  defeat  of  a  Euro- 
pean nation — all  these  considerations  formed  a  sufficient  basis 
for  lively  apprehensions.  The  Treaty  signed  by  Menelik  and 
Mr.  Rodd,  and  ratified  without  delay,  was,  therefore,  received 
with  much  satisfaction,  although  in  several  respects  it  fell 
short  of  what  the  Foreign  Office  would  have  liked  and, 
indeed,  were  entitled  to  expect.  Upon  the  heels  of  the  Treaty 
came  the  narrative  of  the  Mission  by  Captain  Count  Gleichen, 
one  of  its  members,  containing  gratifying  reports  of  the  dis- 
tinguished manner  in  which  the  Abyssinian  Emperor  had 
received  the  British  envoys,  to  whom,  indeed,  he  had  accorded 
greater  honour  than  to  any  other  European  representatives 
who  have  visited  him  in  recent  times.  When  the  Mission  was 
leaving  Addis  Abbaba,  the  King  sent  his  own  band  of  war- 
drums  to  play  them  out  of  the  limits  of  the  great  camp — the 
highest  compliment,  it  is  explained,  that  could  possibly  have 
been  paid. 

The  important  clauses  of  the  Treaty,  apart  from  the  ratifi- 
cation of  boundary,  are  the  following  : — 

The  caravan  route  between  Zeyla  and  Hanar  by  way  of  Gildessa  shall 
remain  open  throughout  its  whole  extent  to  the  commerce  of  both  nations. 

His  Majesty  the  Emperor  of  Ethiopia,  on  the  one  liand,  accords  to 
Great  Britain  and  her  Colonies,  in  respect  of  import  duties  and  load 
taxation,  every  advantage  which  he  may  accord  to  the  subjects,  of  other 
nations. 

On  the  other  hand,  all  material  destined  cxchisively  for  the  .service 
of  the  Ethiopian  State  shall,  on  application  from  His  Majesty  the 
Emperor,  be  allowed  to  pass -through  the  port  of  Zeyla  into  Ethiopia  free 
of  duty. 

The  transit  of  firearms  and  ammunition  destined  for  His  Majesty  the 
Emperor  of  Ethiopia  through  the  territories  depending  on  the  Government 
of  Her  Britannic  Majesty  is  authorised,  subject  to  the  conditions  prescribed 
by  the  General  Act  of  the  Brussels  Conference,  signed  July  2,  1890. 

His  Majesty  the  Emperor  Menelek  II.,  King  of  Kings  of  Ethiopia, 
engages  himself  towards  the  Government  of  Her  Britannic  Majesty  to  do 
all  in  his  power  to  prevent  the  passage  through  his  domains  of  arms  and 
ammunition  to  the  Mahdists,  whom  he  declares  to  be  the  enemies  of  his 
empire. 

The  opening  of  the  route  between  Zeyla  and  Harrar  is  of 
the  first  importance,  for  it  is  far  superior  to  that  from  Jibutil, 


698  COSMOPOLIS. 

the  French  port ;  so  much  so  that  the  well-informed  Italian 
Tribtifia  remarks  upon  this  clause  that,  "John  Bull  with 
his  powerful  arms  strangles  the  new-born  Jibutil."  The  most- 
favoured-nation clause  is  also  of  importance,  as  it  places  us  at 
once,  so  far  as  import  duties  and  local  taxation  are  concerned, 
upon  an  equality  with  France  and  Russia,  and  thus  neutralises 
any  advantages  which  they  no  doubt  confidently  expected  to 
secure  for  themselves.  As  Menelik  has  during  the  last  three 
or  four  years  imported  enormous  quantities  of  arms  and 
ammunition  through  French  territory,  the  permission  to  him 
to  do  so  through  British  territory  could  not  be  refused,  and 
this  is  of  slight  importance.  The  most  vital  matters  of  all 
were  to  make  sure  that  the  Mahdists  should  receive  no  help 
direct  or  indirect  through  Abyssinia,  and  to  come  to  an  agree- 
ment upon  the  limits  of  the  British  and  Abyssinian  spheres  in 
the  direction  of  the  Upper  Nile.  In  the  former  of  these  Mr. 
Rodd  was  successful,  in  the  latter  unsuccessful.  Menelik 
declares  the  Mahdists  to  be  his  enemies,  and  engages  to 
prevent  the  passage  of  arms  intended  for  them.  Of  the  sphere 
of  influence  in  the  Nile  Valley  no  word  is  said,  and  in  reply  to 
a  question  by  Sir  Charles  Dilke,  Mr.  Curzon  has  subsequently 
said  in  the  House  of  Commons  that  while  this  point  had  not 
been  lost  sight  of — rather  a  needless  assurance — it  had  been 
thought  desirable  to  leave  it  for  subsequent  settlement.  That 
means,  of  course,  that  Mr.  Rodd  could  not  come  to  terms  u*ith 
the  Abyssinian  monarch,  and  therefore  a  somewhat  dangerous 
question  remains  to  the  open  account  of  the  future.  Perhaps 
Menelik  did  not  wish  to  pledge  himself  in  this  direction  until 
he  saw  clearly  the  final  result  of  the  coming  Nile  campaign. 

The  new  boundary  on  the  eastern  side  undei*  the  Treaty  is  a 
distinct  concession  on  the  part  of  this  country.  It  gives  to 
Abyssinia  a  long  narrow  strip  of  territory  naming  round 
British  Somaliland  ;  and  certainly  British  officers  stationed 
temporarily  at  Aden,  as  well  as  Indian  sportsmen,  will  receive 
the  news  of  the  Treaty  with  great  dissatisfaction,  for  it  cuts  off 
from  them  the  exact  part  of  the  country  in  which  they  have 
been  accustomed  to  shoot  lions.  Moreover,  we  now  cede  to 
Menelik  all  this  territory,  more  than  we  were  willing  to  give  to 
Italy  in  1894.     Italy,  however,  has  laid  aside  her  ambitions 


THE  GLOBE   AND  THE   ISLAND.  699 

there,  and  the  territory  is  of  no  particular  use  to  us  ;  therefore, 
if,  as  appears  to  have  been  the  case,  MeneHk  specially  desired 
it,  the  concession  was  a  wise  one.  One  other  advance  was 
urgently  desirable  in  view  of  French  and  Russian  action, 
namely,  the  appointment  of  a  British  Representative  to  the 
Court  of  Menelik,  and  that  has  just  been  announced.  The 
first  British  Representative  is  to  be  Lieutenant  Harrington,  who 
has  for  some  time  past  been  in  charge  of  our  interests  at  Zeyla. 
It  is  now  to  be  hoped  that  the  coping  stone  will  be  placed 
upon  British  relations  with  Abyssinia  by  the  construction  of  a 
railway  from  the  coast  to  Harrar,  which  would  be  neither  a 
long  nor  a  difficult  undertaking.  The  French  have  already  a 
concession  to  build  a  line  from  Jibutil,  a  much  harder  task. 
England  would  be  well  advised,  since  the  rivalry  is  so  frank 
and  so  keen,  to  secure  the  trade  route  for  ever  by  prompt  action 
in  this  direction.  Prince  Henry  of  Orleans  said  in  a  public 
speech  in  Paris  a  fortnight  ago,  referring  to  his  Abyssinian 
expedition  : — "  In  the  midst  of  our  efforts  we  shall  have  our 
eyes  constantly  turned  westwards  to  the  valley  of  the  Upper 
Nile  which,  threatened  with  enclosure  in  the  grasp  of  the 
British  vice,  will  soon,  thanks  to  the  expeditions  of  our 
explorers  and  the  will  of  Menelik,  see  the  French  flag,  the 
representative  of  right  and  liberty,  floating  on  its  banks."  And 
M.  Leontieff,  on  behalf  of  Russia,  has  arranged  for  a  steamer 
to  ply  regularly  between  Odessa  and  Jibutil,  and  for 
Abyssinian  commercial  agencies  to  be  established  in  St. 
Petersburg,  Moscow,  Kieff,  Odessa,  and  Warsaw,  while 
Russian  goods  and  presents  filling  seven  railway  trucks  have 
already  been  despatched.  All  this  shows  that  it  will  not  do  for 
us  to  rest  on  Mr.  Rennell  Rodd's  laurels. 

A  sudden  and  sensational  change  aime  over  the  relations  of 
the  United  States  and  Spain  on  the  8th  inst.  The  Cuban 
Junta  of  New  York,  which  has  endeavoured  in  so  many  ways 
with  varying  success  to  embroil  the  two  countries  in  the 
interests  of  the  Cuban  insurgents,  became  possessed  of  a 
private  letter  written  by  Senor  Dupuy  de  Lome,  the  Spanish 
Minister  at  Washington,  to  an  intimate  friend  of  his,  Seiior 
Canalejas,  the  editor  of  the  Heraldo,  of  Madrid,  the  organ  of 


700  COSMOPOLIS. 

the  Sagasta  Ministry.  This  gentleman  reached  Havana  last 
December  armed  with  credentials  from  the  Spanish  Ministry 
to  investigate  the  state  of  affairs  in  Cuba,  and  to  report  upon 
the  possibilities  of  the  scheme  of  autonomy  and  the  condition 
and  prospects  of  the  Spanish  forces.  The  letter  was  addressed 
to  him  at  his  hotel  in  Havana,  but  was  never  delivered,  having 
by  some  underhand  means  been  captured  by  an  agent  of  the 
insurgents.  Its  contents  are  of  importance  from  two  points  of 
view.  First,  because  they  have  removed  from  Washington  a 
Spanish  representative  who  had  waged  by  his  tact,  calmness, 
and  courage,  a  successful  warfare  with  the  unscrupulous  insur* 
gent  partisans ;  and,  second,  because  they  betrayed  the  fact 
that  certain  commercial  negotiations  had  been  pursued  or 
might  be  pursued  by  Spain  in  an  insincere  manner,  merely  to 
draw  off  American  attention  from  the  larger  issue. 

The  authenticity  of  the  letter  has  not  been  denied  by  Sefior 
de  Lome,  and  on  the  day  following  its  publication  he  cabled 
his  resignation  to  Madrid — not  once,  but  several  times — with 
the  obvious  and  natural  desire  of  retiring  by  his  own  act  before 
he  was  dismissed  in  consequence  of  the  pressure  that  President 
McKinley  would  certainly  put  upon  the  Spanish  authorities. 
In  this  he  was  successful,  but  President  McKinley,  ignoring 
with  perfect  dignity  the  insulting  remarks  about  himself, 
demanded  from  Spain  a  disavowal  of  the  tactics  atbibuted  to 
her  in  her  representative's  private  correspondence.  This,  after 
some  delay,  was  given,  Sefior  de  Lome  sailed  from  New  York, 
and  the  incident  closed.  The  fresh  illustration  which  the 
incident  affords  of  the  methods  employed  for  the  furthering  in 
the  United  States  of  the  Cuban  insurgent  cause,  has,  of  course, 
given  great  offence  to  respectable  American  opinion,  but  the 
authenticity  of  the  letter  being  undoubted,  its  contents  are  of 
sufiBcient  importance  to  justify  its  reproduction  here  in  full.  It 
ran  as  follows  : — 

Legation  de  Espafla,  Washington.    Kximo.*Seaor  Donr  Jose  Canalejas  : 
My  distinguished  and  dear  Friend, — You  need  not  apologise  for  not 
having  written  to  me  ;  I  also  ought  to  have  written  to  you,  but  have  not 
done  so  on  account  of  being  weighed  down  with  work,  and  ftaus  sammes 
quiites. 

The  situation  here  continues  unchanged.  Everything  depends  on  the 
political  and  military  success  in  Cuba.  The  prologue  of  this  second 
method  of  warfare  will  end  the  day  that  the  Colonial  Cabinet  vnW  be 


THE  GLOBE   AND   THE    ISLAND.  70I 

appointed,  and  it  relieves  us  in  the  eyes  of  this  country  of  a  part  of  the 
responsibility  of  what  may  happen  there,  and  they  must  cast  the 
responsibility  upon  the  Cubans,  whom  they  believe  to  be  so  immaculate. 

Until  then  we  will  not  be  able  to  see  clearly,  and  I  consider  it  to  be  a 
loss  of  time  and  an  advance  by  the  wrong  road,  the  sending  of  emissaries 
to  the  rebel  field,  the  negotiating  with  the  Autonomists,  not  yet  declared 
to  be  legally  constituted,  and  the  discovery  of  the  intentions  and  purposes 
of  this  Government.  The  exiles  will  return  one  by  one,  and  when  they 
return  will  come  walking  into  the  sheepfold,  and  the  chiefs  will  gradually 
return.  Neither  of  these  had  the  courage  to  leave  en  masse,  and  they  will 
not  have  the  courage  to  thus  return. 

The  President's  message  has  undeceived  the  insurj^ents,  who  expected 
something  else,  and  has  paralysed  the  action  of  Congress,  but  I  considei 
it*  bad. 

Besides  the  natural  and  inevitable  coarseness  with  which  he  repeats  all 
that  the  Press  and  public  opinion  of  Spain  has  said  of  Wcyler,  it  shows 
once  more  what  McKinley  is — weak  and  catering  to  the  rabble,  and, 
besides,  a  low  politician,  who  desires  to  leave  a  door  open  to  me  anil  to 
stand  well  with  the  jingoes  of  his  party. 

Nevertheless,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  it  will  only  depend  on  ourselves 
whether  he  will  prove  bad  and  adverse  to  us.  I  agree  entirely  with  you 
that  without  a  military  success  nothing  will  be  accomplished  there,  and 
without  military  and  political  success  there  is  here  always  danger  that  t la- 
insurgents  will  be  encouraged,  if  not  by  the  Government,  at  least  by  part 
of  the  public  opinion. 

I  do  not  believe  you  pay  enough  attention  to  the  role  of  Englantl. 
Nearly  all  that  newspaper  canaille  which  swarms  in  your  hotel  are  English, 
and  while  they  are  correspondents  of  American  journals  they  are  also 
correspondents  of  the  best  newspapers  and  reviews  of  London.  Thus  it 
has  been  since  the  beginning.  To  my  mind,  the  only  object  of  England 
is  that  the  Americans  should  occupy  themselves  with  us  and  leave  her  in 
peace,  and  if  there  is  a  war,  so  much  the  better ;  that  would  further 
remove  what  is  threatening  her,  although  that  will  never  happen. 

It  would  be  most  important  that  you  should  agitate  the  question  of 
commercial  relations,  even  though  it  would  be  only  for  effect,  and  that  you 
should  send  here  a  man  of  importance  in  order  that  I  might  use  him  to 
make  a  propaganda  among  the  Senators  and  others  in  opposition  to  the 
Junta  and  to  win  over  exiles. 

There  goes  Amblarad.  I  believe  lie  comes  too  deeply  taken  up  with 
little  political  matters,  and  there  must  be  something  very  great  or  we  shall 
lose. 

Adela  returns  your  salutation,  and  we  wish  you  in  the  new  year  to  be  a 
messenger  of  peace  and  take  this  new  year's  present  to  poor  Spain. 

Always  your  attentive  friend  and  servant,  who  kisses  your  hands, 

(Signed)        Enrique  Dupuy  de  I^me. 

Before  the  incident  of  Seiior  de  Lome's  letter  was  finally 
arranged,  fate  intervened  once  more  in  the  relations  of  the 
United  States  and  Spain.  As  if  the  mutual  sentiments  of  the 
two  countries  were  not  already  sufficiently  exacerbated,  came 
the   shocking  news  of   the  loss  of    the  American   armoured 


702  COSMOPOLIS. 

cruiser  Maine,  by  an  explosion  while  riding  tO'  her  anchors  in 
the  harbour  of  Havana.  Under  the  circumstances,  it  was 
inevitable  that  the  first  suspicion  should  be  that  foul  play  was 
responsible  for  such  a  dramatic  event.  The  motive  might  have 
sprung  either  from  the  desire  of  a  Spaniard,  whose  patriotism 
had  turned  to  lunacy,  to  be  avenged  upon  the  Americans  for 
their  interference  in  the  affairs  of  his  country,  or  from  the 
belief  of  a  Cuban  insurgent  that  such  an  outrage  could  not 
fail  to  precipitate  war  between  the  two  countries,  the  result  of 
which  would  be  the  loss  of  Cuba  to  Spain.  On  both  sides, 
however,  the  appalling  occurrence  was,  with  one  exception, 
treated  with  perfect  calmness  and  dignity.  Captain  Sigsbee, 
of  the  Maiiitf  though  wounded  by  the  explosion,  and  the  last  to 
leave  his  ship,  telegraphed  instantly  declaring  that  American 
public  opinion  should  remain  in  suspense  as  to  the  cause  ot 
the  disaster  ;  while  the  American  Government  and  all  the 
responsible  Press  have  declined  to  take  one  step  in  advance 
of  the  evidence  which  divers  are  now  procuring.  On  the 
Spanish  side  every  assistance  was  afforded,  and  the  funerals  ol 
the  victims  conducted  with  profound  courtesy  and  sympathy. 
From  England,  of  course,  from  the  Queen  downwards,  the 
most  cordial  and  sincere  expressions  of  sympathy  were  imme- 
diately communicated  —  indeed,  I  hardly  remember  any 
calamity  to  a  foreign  people  which  evoked  here  so  genuine  and 
universal  a  movement  of  goodwill.  To  all  this  the  action 
of  the  so-called  '*  Yellow  Press "  of  America  has  been  an 
unedifying  exception.  Apart  altogether  from  good  taste  and 
truth,  neither  of  which  have  had  any  relation  to  what  these 
journals  have  published  about  the  loss  of  the  Mtiine,  what  is 
chiefly  striking  is  the  utter  want  of  patriotism  characterising 
them.  Not  only  do  they  bring  their  country  into  contempt 
abroad,  but  they  are  positively  prepared  to  use  their  whole 
influence,  which  is  very  great  upon  the  masses  of  the  people, 
to  provoke  war  by  the  dissemination  of  flagrant  falsehoods. 
No  evidence  of  any  kind  has  yet  been  forthcoming.  The 
idea  of  photographing  the  submerged  battleship  is,  of  course, 
ludicrous ;  yet  these  papers  have  published  despatch  after 
despatch  declaring  that  the  Maine  was  blown  up  by  a 
mine  in  Havana  Harbour  connected  by  wires  with  the  Spanish 


THE  GLOBE   AND   THE   ISLAND.  703 

fortress,  and  by  elaborate  illustrations  have  professed  to  show 
exactly  how  this  was  done.  I  hold,  as  I  have  always  held, 
that  the  outcome  of  everything  will  be  the  loss  of  Cuba  to 
Spain  ;  but  unless  the  wildly  improbable  is  proved  to  be  true 
and  indubitable  evidence  of  international  outrage  is  forth- 
coming, the  loss  of  the  Maine  will  not  have  contributed  much 
to  bring  this  about.  But  it  has  shown  that  at  a  moment 
of  very  grave  and  dangerous  crisis,  the  American  Executive 
and  responsible  Americans  everywhere  put  their  foot  upon 
all  sensationalism,  and  act  with  a  firmness  and  a  difjnity  com- 
pelling universal  respect.  Amid  all  the  incidents,  however,  the 
Spanish  army  is  still  disintegrating,  and  accomplishing  nothing 
in  Cuba ;  while,  if  President  McKinley's  attitude  be  correctly 
represented  by  the  chairman  of  the  House  of  Representatives' 
Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs,  the  moment  is  fast  approaching 
when  the  American  Government  is  pledged  to  interfere. 

Henry  Norman. 


LITERARY    BULLETIN. 


BOOKS. 


The  Story  ok  Gladstones  Life.  By 
Justin  McCarthy.  (London  and 
Edinburgh  :  A.  &  C.  Black.    7s.  6d.) 

There  is  something  touching,  in  this 
age  of  tolerance  and  scepticism,  in  Mr. 
McCarthy's  blind  cuttc  and  admiration 
for  Mr.  Gladstone.     VVc  can  conceive 
that  his  book  may  be  more  irritating  to 
the  enlightened  amongst  Mr.  Gladstone's 
followers  than  to  his  opponents,  for  a 
biographer  whose  hero  can  do  no  wrong 
spoils  his  own  case.    We  cannot  quite 
believe,  as  students  of  human  nature,  that 
even  Mr.  Gladstone,  during  a  long  and 
tumultuous  career,  has  never  on  any  single 
occasion  been  actuated  by  any  but  the 
highest,    purest,    and    most    beneficent 
motives.     Mr.  McCarthy's  attitude  is  un- 
kind—he will  allow  his  hero  no  ordinary 
human  failings  or  lapses  ;  he  will  not  allow 
his  readers  the  luxury  of  a  little  toler- 
ance and  forgiveness.  We  should  admire 
Mr.  Gladstone    so    much    more    unre- 
servedly, were  we  not  told  that  he  was 
always  in  the  right.     His  historian,  how- 
ever,  grants    him   one  defect ;    he   has 
always  been  inclined  to  take  things  too 
seriously.     Mr.   McCarthy  must  look  to 
the  beam  that  is  in  his  own  eye.     It  has 
already  blinded  him  to  Mr.  Gladstone's 
faults  ;  and  also  to  the  merits  of  many 
other  remarkable    men,    notably    Lord 
Beaconsfield.     But    it   is,  perhaps,   just 
Mr.  McCarthy's  extremely  arreU  views 
which  render  the  book   such  amusing 
reading.      It    is    written    in    his    usual 
brilliant  style,  if  somewhat  colloquially, 
and  with  all  the  vigour  of  a  strong  per- 
sonal interest  in,  and  knowledge  of,  his 
subject. 


France.    By  John  Edward  Courtenay 
BoDLKV.    (Macmillan  &  Co.    21s.) 

Mr.  Bodley  is  entitled  to  speak  on  the 
subject  of  France  with  as  much  authoritx 
as  is  ever  permissible  to  a  writer  of  a 
different  nationality  ;   for  he  has  lived 
seven  years  in  that  countr>',  both  in  Pari< 
and  in  the  provinces,  and   has  studied 
national  life  at  first  hand.     He  has  al!»o 
been  the  friend  of  nearly  all  the  noted 
Frenchmen  of  the  day,  and  has  had  the 
benefit  of  their  advice,  and  in  some  cases 
of    their  revision,    in    his    work.     His 
exF>erience  and  researches  have  led  him 
to  some  noteworthy  conclusions,  the  prin- 
cipal among  them  being  :   first,  that  the 
Parliamentary  system  in  France  has  been 
a  failure  ;  secondly,  that  such  failure  is 
owing  to  the  impossibility  of  working 
it    in     conjunction     with    the    system 
of    centralisation    partly    reconstructed, 
partly     created      by     Napoleon      1. ; 
thirdly,  that  the  latter  system  is  the  one 
stable    element    in    the    constitution  of 
France,  and  has  survived  all  changes, 
thereby  proving    its  suitability   to   the 
genius  and  temperament  of  the  French 
nation.      Mr.    Bodley  thinks    that    thi< 
uusuitability  of  the  Parliamentary  system 
is  at  the  root  of  the  political   anarchy 
which  is  driving   all   thinking    men  in 
France  into  an  attitude  at  once  scornful 
and  pessimistic,  and  is  inducing  a  dan- 
gerous   apathy   amongst   those    classes 
which  form  the  real  backlK>ne  of  the 
nation — the    provincial    bourgeoisie^  the 
clergy,    and    the   peasantry.     Napoleon 
reconstructed  France  after  the  Revolution 
had  reduced  her  to  a  state  of  chaos  ;  and 
Mr.  Bodley  believes  that  the  only  form 


LITERARY  BULLBTIN. 


705 


of  Government  which  can  prove  per- 
manently successful,  is  the  somewhat 
paradoxical  one  of  an  Emperor  at  the 
head  of  a  Republic — a  strong  hand,  at 
the  head  of  a  stable  executive,  which 
would  strengthen  instead  of  weakening 
the  great  system  of  centralisation.  Mr. 
Bodley's  conclusions  may  be  wrong ;  but 
they  are  offered  in  a  spirit  of  scientific 
criticism,  and  are  the  outcome  of  a 
genuine  interest  in,  and  sympathy  with, 
a  great  nation.  The  studies  which  are 
to  follow  these  two  volumes  will  throw 
still  further  light  on  his  subject,  especially 
on  its  economic  aspect.  We  may  re- 
mark, while  recommending  his  work  to 
both  French  and  English  readers,  that 
his  style  rather  suffers  from  a  tendency 
to  the  use  of  an  involved  turn  of  phrase 
and  a  lack  of  simplicity. 

South  Africa  op  To-day.  By  Captain 
Francis  Younghusband,  C.I.E., 
Indian  Staff  Corps.  Late  special 
correspondent  of  The  Times  in  South 
Africa,  &c.  With  illustrations. 
(London  :  Macmillan,  &  Co.    8s.  6d. 

net.) 

• 

Captain  Younghusband 's  work  is 
specially  interesting  as  a  forecast  of 
the  future  of  South  Africa.  He  was 
present  at  a  time  when  the  troubles 
between  Boers  and  Uitlanders,  resulting 
in  the  famous  Jameson  Raid,  attracted 
the  attention  of  all  Europe,  and  a  great 
deal  of  his  information  has  already  been 
given  to  the  public  in  the  form  of  letters 
and  telegrams  to  The  Times.  He  had 
thus  full  opportunities  lof  forming  an 
opinion  as  to  the  possible  relations  of 
the  inhabitants  of  South  Africa  in  the 
future ;  and  he  expresses  his  views  on 
this  subject  in  a  clear  and  unaffected 
style. 

The  Autobiography  of  Arthur 
Young.  With  Selections  from  his 
Correspondence.  Edited  by  M. 
Betham  Edwards.  (Smith,  Elder 
&  Co.    I2S.  6d.) 

Arthur  Young  is  an  illustration  of  the 
truth  that  the  power  of  theorising  and 
putting  into  practice  is  rarely  to  be  found 
in  the  same  man.  He  is  a  European 
authority  on  agriculture,  and  yet  his 
own  experiments — some  3,000,  we  are 
told,  on  one  farm — were  absolute  fail- 
ures.   He  was  also  a  keen  observer,  and 


his  "  English  Tours  "  and  "  Journeys  in 
France  "  are  full  of  interest.  The  latter 
are  a  vivid  picture  of  country  life  just 
before  the  Revolution,  and  throw  many 
side  lights  on  that  complex  period. 
Agriculturists  of  the  present  day  owe 
him  a  debt  of  gratitude  for  his  patience 
in  verifying  his  theories,  for  his  minute 
and  honest  record  of  all  he  saw  and  did, 
and  for  his  courage  in  holding  what  were 
in  his  days  heterodox  and  subversive 
opinions.  The  editor  has  shown  great 
tact  and  ability  in  the  discharge  of  her 
office,  and  the  book  repays  perusal. 

Charles  Dickens.— A  Critical  Study. 
By  George  Gissing.  The  Vic- 
torian Era  Series.  (Blackie  &  Sons, 
28.  6d.) 

Mr.  Gissing  is  one  of  the  few  critics 
who  realise  that  indiscriminate  praise  or 
blame  does  not  constitute  criticism. 
Although  he  is  an  ardent  admirer  of  the 
great  novelist,  he  admits  his  faults  with 
a  candour  that  satisfies  our  sense  of 
justice,  and  prepares  us  to  be  atone  with 
him  in  his  appreciation.  His  little  book 
is  well  planned  and  clear.  He  divides 
his  subject  into  sections,  and  deals  with 
each  as  fully  as  his  limited  space  will 
allow.  His  comparison  of  Dickens — not 
with  Thackeray,  for  he  recognises  the 
absurdity  of  any  comparison  between 
two  such  totally  different  writers — but 
with  Balzac,  Hugo,  Dostoieffsky,  and 
Daudet,  is  interesting  and  well  thought 
out,  though  many  French,  and  some 
English  readers  may  consider  it  unduly 
to  the  advantage  of  Dickens. 

The  War  of  the  Worlds.    By  H.  G. 
Wells.    (Heinemann.    6s.) 

Mr.  Wells  treats  of  the  improbable — 
we  cannot  say,  after  reading  his  story, 
the  impossible  —  with  an  extraordinary 
vraisemblancey  which  carries  us  away. 
His  invading  Martians  are  for  the 
moment  a  living  terror,  and  he  makes  a 
clever  use  of  ordinary  modern  life  and 
surrounding  to  enhance  his  effect,  for 
the  first  instalment  of  belligerent  Mar- 
tians alights  near  Woking,  and  sows 
devastation  over  the  well-known  districts 
of  Weybridge,  Sheen,  and  Hampton 
Court.  Their  entry  into  London,  which 
causes  a  great  panic,  and  their  death 
from  simple  but  unexpected  causes,  arc 


7o6 


COSMOPOLIS. 


described  in  the  terse,  vivid,  and  excel- 
lent style  which  lends  itself  to  this  form 
of  narrative.  Mr.  Wells'  imagination  is 
strangely  composed  of  fantastic  and 
of  sdentific  elements  ;  yet  possibly  parts 
of  his  work  may  seem  no  more  fan- 
tastic in  the  future  than  does  Bulwer 
Lytton's  "  Coming  Race  "  in  the  present. 

Shrewsbury.    By  Stanley  Weyman. 

This  story,  of  the  time  of  William  and 
Mar>'  is  written  with  Mr.  Wcyman's 
customary  ease  and  vigour.  Kings, 
dukes,  arch-plotters,  and  obscure  i>er- 
sons  are  hurried  in  his  breathless 
pages  through  conspiracies,  hairbreadth 
escapes,  and  romances.  The  adventures 
of  the  hero,  one  Richard  Price,  are  of  a 
thrilling  interest,  but  we  regret  that  the 
charming  Duke  of  Shrewsbury  himself 
has  not  been  dealt  with  at  greater 
length.  He  is  the  typical  great  man  of 
romance,  who  will  appeal  to  all  readers 
till  the  end  of  time  ;  but  we  must  admit 
that  Price,  half  coward,  half  hero,  is  a 
cleverer  piece  of  portraiture,  though  less 
sympathetic. 

Ai'LD  Lang  Synk.  By  the  Right  Hon. 
F.  Max  Muli.ek.  (Longmans,  Green 
&  Co.     los.  6d.) 

These    pleasant     Recollections,   now 

collected  in   one  volume,  have  already 

appeared  in  the  pages  of  Cosmopolis. 


They  are  interesting  from  the  fact  that 
Professor  Max  Muller  has  known  almost 
every  notable  man  of  the  day,  both  at 
home  and  abroad,  and  can,  therefore, 
give  us  personal  impres5«ions  of  their 
lives  and  character. 

BOOKS  RECEIVED. 
Hugh  Wynne.    By  S.  Weir    Mit- 
chell.   (Fisher  Unwin.     6s.) 

Dead  Men's  Tales.  By  Charles 
JUNOR.    (Sonnenschein.) 

India  in  1897.  By  Behramji  M. 
Malabari.   (Bombay  &  Cambridge,   is.) 

Cleo  the  Magnificent.  By  Z.  Z. 
(Heinemann.    6s.) 

The  Broom  of  the  War-God.  By 
Henry  Noel  Brailsford.  (Heinemann. 
6s.) 

The  Minister  of  St.ate.  By  John 
A.  Steuart.    (Heinemann.    6s.) 

William  Shakespeare  :  A  Critical 
Study.  By  George  Brandes.  Trans- 
lated  by  Mr.  Wiluam  Archer,  with  the 
assistance  of  Miss  Mary  Morison  and 
Miss  Diana  White. 

J.  F.  Millet  and  'Rustic  Art.  By 
Henry     Naegely    (Henry     Gaelyni. 

(Elliot  Stock.) 

Who's  Who,  1  »98.  Edited  by  Dougl.\s 
Sladen.  (Adam  &  Charles  Black.  3s.  6d. 

net.) 


THEATRES. 


The  Adklphi. — The  short  revival  of 
Chiirlotti  Coniiiy  has  been  followed  by 
I^>rd  Lytlon's  drama,  The  Liuiv  of  Lyons, 
with  Mr.  Kyrle  Ikllew  ;is  "Claude 
Melnottc,"  and  Mrs.  Brown-Fottcr  as 
*'  Pauline."  The  part  of  the  somewhat 
melodramatic  heroine  is  a  clever  piece 
of  actinji,  delibei*ately  artificial. 

DUKK  OK  York's. — Tlw  Dovecot  is  an 
adaptation  of  jftilonst;  the  scene  bein^^ 
transplanted  to  Enj^land  with  more 
irnisciuhltincf  than  is  usual  in  such 
attempts.  The  lines  of  the  French  play 
have  been  followed  as  closely  as 
the  exigencies  of  an  English  version 
l^rmit,  and  its  gaiety  loses  little  at  the 
hands  of  Mis'*  Ellis  Jeffreys  and  Mr. 
Seymour  Hicks  a«  ihc  young  wife  and 
husband. 


The    Court.— Written,    if    wc    may 
beiieve  the  recent  statement  of  an  inter- 
viewer, solely  to  amuse.  Trdiuvnv  of  the 
"  Wells ••  entirely  justifies   Mr.  Pincros 
amiable  intention.     The  dialogue  and 
situations   of   this  delightful    "comedi- 
etta," the  acting,  and  not  least,  perhaps, 
the  astonishing  middle-Victorian  dresses 
recall  with  charming  fidelity  the  gay  or 
sentimental  himiours  of  the  early  sixties. 
The  "Wells,"   be  it   said,    is    a    minor 
Ix)ndon   theatre  with  "  Trelawny  '*  for 
its  star  actress — a  part  played  by  Mis-; 
Vanbrugh    with    graceful    and  refinetl 
vivacity. 

The  Lyceum.— a  revival  of  Tht-  Ma- 
chant  of  Venice  and  Madame  Sans-Gfne. 

Her  Majesty's.— We  are  glad  to  note 
the  first  signal  success  at  Mr.  Tree's  new 


LITERARY   BULLETIN. 


707 


theatre.  The  hard  task  of  adapt in;;^ 
jfuiius  Civsar  to  modern  stage  require- 
ments has  been,  on  the  whole,  success- 
fully carried  out  :  little  dramatic  interest 
being  forfeited  in  the  bold  reduction 
of  the  original  five  acts  to  three.  The 
misC'eH'Scinc  is  in  every  way  worthy  of 
Mr.  Alma  Tadema's  reputation,  and 
playgoers  need  not  put  themselves  out  if 
undue  pedantry  would  remind  them  that 
the  Rome  of  Ccesar  was  in  reality  a 
primitive  city  of  bricks.  Mr.  Tree  (as 
Mark  Antony)  is  at  his  best  in  the 
Forum  scene.  Mr.  Lewis  Waller's 
austere  and  dignified  conception  of 
Brtttns  is  rendered  with  singular  com- 
petence. A  last  word  must  be  added 
in  praise  of  the  mob,  which  is  the 
most  convincingly  iife-like  we  have 
ever  seen. 


Thk  Stkani).— .1  Braa-  of  Pitrtniiji>is, 
which  has  reached  London  from  the 
provinces,  is  an  amusing  farce,  based  on 
the  confusion  arising  from  the  resem- 
blance of  two  cousins. 

The  St.  James's. — Mr.  George  Alexan- 
der's production  of  Much  Ado  About 
Nothing  was  cordially  received  by  an 
audience  that  appreciated  the  refine- 
ment and  intelligent  good  taste  with 
which  it  has  been  put  upon  the  stage. 
Without  prejudice  to  tlie  rest  of  the 
mounting,  the  scene  in  the  chuich  may 
be  mentioned  as  the  most  impressive. 
Miss  Julia  Xeilson  and  Miss  Fay  take 
the  parts  of  "  Beatrice "  and  "  Hero," 
while  those  of  "  Benedick,'  "  Don 
Pedro,"  and  "Don  John"  fall  respec- 
tively to  Mr.  George  Alexander,  Mr 
Fred  Terry,  and  Mr.  H.  B.  Irving. 


NOTICES  OF  REVIEWS. 


The  XlXETEENTH   CENTURY  REVIEW 

February.  —  Mr.  Swinburne's  poem 
Utirkin^  Hall :  A  Year  After,  is  in 
praise  of  his  mother's  beautiful   home. 

England  at   War   is  the   title   Mr. 

Frederick  Greenwood  gives  to  his 
thoughtful  criticism  of  the  now  tradi- 
tional policy  of  isolation.  A  fatal  policy 
in  the  writer's  opinion,  if  England  is 
to  hold  her  own  against  the  European 
Powers  in  league  to  thwart  her  trade. 
The  mooted  alliance  with  Japan  is  con- 
demned as  a  disloyalty  to  European 
civilisation.  Mr.  Henry  Birchenough, 
forecasting  the  development  of  German 
colonisation,  doubts  whether,  in  spite  of 
present  commercial  activity,  a  "  Greater 
Germany"  can  in  fact  be  created  a!id 

maintained  beyond  the  seas. In  the 

next  article  Mr.  Clavell  Tripp  discusses 
the  different  characteristics  and  prospects 
of  German  and  British  Trade  in  the  East. 
Another  article  of  topical  interest  is 
Mr.    C.   A.    Moreing's    Great    Britain's 

opportunity    in    China.  Count    de 

Oilonne  describes  the  inner  life  of  French 
Officialism. 

The  Fortnightly  Review.  Febru- 
ary.— 3/.  Hanotanx  is  the  plain  title  of 
an  extremely  interesting  (unsigned) 
article  describing  the  personality,  work 
and  career  of  the  present  French  Minister 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXVIl. 


of   Foreign    Affairs. *' Diplomaticus  " 

upholds  the  doctrine  of  free  markets  in 
China,  and  suggests  that  "  either  the 
Central  Government  should  be  reformed 
or  strengthened,  or  the  Provincial 
finances  should   be  submitted  to  direct 

European    supervision." Mr.   Sidney 

Ixie,  in  an  essay  on  Shakespeare  and  the 
Earl  of  Pembroke,  endeavours  to  prove 
beyond  dispute  that  the  Earl  of  South- 
ampton was  the  person  to  whom  the 
sonnets  were  addressed.  The  article,  it 
should  be  said,  is  an  answer  to  Mr. 
William  Archer's  recent  paper  on  the 

sonnets. Forty  Years  of  the  House  of 

Commons  is  a  bundle  of  bright  and 
entertaining  anecdotes  of  life  in  Parlia- 
ment.  Mr.   E.    H.    Parker  writes  on 

Corea,  and  Mr.  William  Johnstone  de- 
scribes his  recent  journey  from  Canton 
to  Mandalay. 

The  Conte.m horary  Review.  Febru- 
ary.—r/r^-  Bntish  Ship  ofWaris  the  title 
of  a  paper  in  w^hich  Mr.  Fred  T.  Jane 
warns  the  Admiralty  of  the  danger  of 
giving  way  to  outside  public  pressure  in 
the  matter  of  naval  construction.  Mis- 
takes in  American  types  of  warships, 
due  to  this    cause,  serve  the  writer  as 

object-lessons. N.    E.    Prorok,    after 

analysing  the  centrifugal  forces  at  work 
in  .Austria- Hungary,  propounds  an  un- 

7 


7o8 


COSMOPOLIS. 


convincing  scheme  by  which  the  war- 
ring nationalities  of  the  empire  may  seek 

and  find  a  durable  modus  rhrmii. Mrs. 

Virginia  M.  Crawford,  writing  of  Aiphonsc 
Dattdetf  emits  the  ungracious  paradox 
thiit  his  later  intellectual  development 
was  diverted  by  the  very  happiness  of 
his  married  life.  A  child  of  the  South, 
he  languished  in  surroundings  ill-suited 

to  his  art  and  talent. An  anonymous 

writer  on  The  Problem  of  the  East  urges 
the  Chinese  Government  to  seek  some 
safer  stronghold  than  Pekin,  and  advo- 
cates common  action  with  Japan,  to. 
^(etherwith  the  immediate  strengthening 
of  the  British   tleet    in   Chinese   waters. 

Mr.    Percy    Bunting    publishes    an 

excellent  condensed  translation  of  Ger- 
hart  Hauptinann's  latest  play,  **  Die 
Vt'ntiiikcnc  Gioikr." 

Thk  Xationai.  Rf.view.  February. 
— Mr.  E.  C.  Ringler  Thomson,  who  has 
studied  the  subject  on  the  spot,  foretells 
the  manner  of  The  Russian  Advaiue  on 
India  in  the  case  of  a  war  with  Great 
Britain.  The  article  contains  incidentally 
a  curious  account  of  General  Kuropatkin. 

Mining  and  Politics  of  the  Transvaal 

is  an  ably  written  and  instructive  paper 
by  one  who  is  evidently  practically  con- 
versant with  the  questions  at  issue. /;/ 

Mind  ami  Disease,  Dr.  Herbert  Coryn 
lays    stress    on     the     value    of    sound 

psychical  training  in  early  life. Mr. 

Maurice  Ix)w  gives  us  a  clear  and  con- 
cise  n^siim/oi  American  Affairs. 

North  American  Review.  Januar\-. 
—Professor  Ccsare  Lombroso  concludes 
his  article  in  elucidation  of  the  reasons 
Why   Homicide   has    Increased    in    the 

United  States. Mr.  M.  G.  Mulhall  con- 

tributes  a  solid  paper  on  The  Industrial 

Advance   of  Germany. Mr.    Charles 

Denby,  in  America's  Opportunity  in  Asia, 
insists  on  the  necessity,  from  the  Ameri- 
can   point    of    view,    of    maintaining 

Chinese  trade  open  to  all  comers. Mr. 

Max  O'Rell  philosophises  with  amusing 
enthusiasm  on  his  recent  visit  to  Jersey  : 
A  Paradise  of  GoiulGoirrnment. 


The  FoRi'M.  January.  —  Senator 
George  G.  Vest,  writing  on  The  Future 
of  Bimetalism,  believes  that  the  failure 
of  the  Wolcott  Commission,  far  from 
weakening  the  bimctalist  cause,  tends  to 
strengthen  it,  in  so  far  as  it  puts  an  end 
to  the  hope  of  any  international  arrange- 
ment on  the  lines  of  the  commission, 
and  leaves  the  United  States  free  to 
work  out  her  own  economic  sah-ation 
by  herself. Mr.  Hugh  McGregor  fore- 
tells the  inevitable  development  of  traders 
unions,  which  are  destined,  by  means  of 
international  organisation  to '*  establish 
a  unity  co-e.\tensive  with  civilisation, 
and,  tinally,  to  effect  the  full  incorpora- 
tion   of    the    working    class    into    the 

ranks      of      modern     society." Mr. 

Clarence  Cary  writes  with  the  autho- 
rity of  much  experience  on  China 
and  Chinese  Railway  Concessions.  The 
article  contains  an  interesting  description 
of  His  Excellency  Shcng-Tajen—"  .V 
rising  star  in  the  murky  firmament  oi 
Chinese  politics.  Astute,  progrcssixt, 
daring,  with  the  acquisitive  tendency 
largely  developed,  Sheng-Tajcn  is  full 
of  aggressive  force  and  picturesque  pos- 
sibility. As  yet  full  of  vigour,  of  large 
wealth,  and  but  little  over  fifty  years  ci 
age,  he  may,  if  circumspect,  or  if  effec- 
tively guided,  reach  any  place  of  Minis- 
terial power  and  control  that  China  has 
to  offer." Other  articles  in  this  num- 
ber of  the  review  are  of  more  interest 
to  American  readers  than  to  European. 
We  may  perhaps  omit  Professor  Brander 
Mathews'  literary  campaign  against  stu- 
dents' "closet"  plays  {Tke  Relation  or 
the  Drama  to  Literature), 

The  Arena.— The  January  issue  of  this 
review  contains  an  excellent  variety  of 
articles,  but  few  of  them  appeal  to  the 
general  reader  on  this  side  of  the 
Atlantic.  An  exception,  so  far  at  least 
as  English  readers  are  concerned,  is 
John  D.  Spencc's  paper  on  Professoi 
Goldwin  Smith  and  Canada^  a  sober  and 
impartial  plea  for  a  more  conciiiatory 
and  a  better  informed  attitude  on  the 
part  of  American  political  criticism  oi 
Great  Britain. 


Editor;  F,  Ortmans, 


LA   RESSEMBLANCE. 


I 

De  toutes  parts,  les  coup6s  arrivaient,  silencieux  sur  leurs 
roues  caoutchout^es,  avec  le  tin  tin  frele  de  leur  grelot.  Par 
les  portes  larges  ouvertes,  ils  p6n6traient,  Tun  aprfes  I'autre,  dans 
la  cour  sabl6e  de  I'hotel,  d^crivaient  une  brfeve  parabole,  puis 
s'arretaient  sous  la  marquise.  Alors,  un  Soulier  menu  pointait, 
de  couleur  claire,  et  une  femme  descendait,  le  dos  rond,  les 
bras  a  peine  devin6s  sous  la  sortie  de  bal  ^clatante. 

M.  et  Mme  Albert  de  Pierrelaye  recevaient  ce  soir-la,  el 
toutes  les  d6gances  de  Paris  devaient  paraitre  une  heure  dans 
leurs  salons. 

Mme  de  Pierrelaye  avait  vingt-cinq  ans.  C'6tait  une  blonde 
r^veuse,  aux  ^paules  nacr6es,  a  Tame  trfes  clair  de  lune,  qui 
parlait  lentement,  avec  des  airs  lointains  de  personne  qui 
s'6veille  et  qui,  venant  de  faire  quclque  songe  sid6ral,  ne  rentre 
qu'a  regret  dans  notre  plan6taire  existence. 

Ces  airs-la  lui  allaient  trfes  bien  du  reste  ;  et  la  m61ancolie 
constante  de  ses  grands  yeux  faisaient  sur  les  hommes  une 
impression  de  douceur  exquise  dont  ils  se  d^barrassaient 
difficilement.  EUe  avait  ^pous6,  a  vingt  et  un  ans,  le  comte 
Albert  de  Pierrelaye,  propri6taire  d'une  6curie  de  courses,  qui 
s'occupait  d'elle  presque  autant  que  de  ses  chevaux  et  ne 
la  trompait  qu'avec  discretion.  Elle  semblait  parfaitement 
heureuse. 

La  comtesse  avait  ceci  de  particulier  :  elle  ressemblait 
extraordinairement  a  sa  m^re.  Les  vieux  amis  de  la  famille 
etaient  unanimes  la-dessus  et  des  peintures,  des  bustes,  des 
photographies  repr6sentant  Mme  Beauny  a  vingt-cinq  ans 
— ainsi  s'appelait  la  mfere  de  Mme  de  Pierrelaye — attestaient 
que  ces  amis  disaient  juste.  Mme  Beauny  avait  eu  a  peu  prfes 
la  meme  taille,  le  meme  teint,  la  meme  physionomie,  le  meme 
son  de  voix  que  sa  fille.     Elle  avait  eu  aussi  les  mfemes  gouts 


7IO  COSMOPOLIS. 

— ce  qui  rentrait  dans  les  theories  du  docteur  Beauny,  son 
mari,  membre  de  I'Institut.  Ce  savant  avait  6crit  un  livre 
intitule  :  "  Concordances  physiques  et  morales,"  dans  lequel  il 
avait  essay^  de  prouver  que  deux  personnes  se  ressemblant  de 
corps  sont  rarement  dissemblables  d'esprit  et  qu'elles  ont 
souvent  le  meme  caractfere,  les  m^mes  penchants,  par  con- 
s6quent  la  meme  destin6e. 

M.  et  Mme  Beauny  devaient  venir  ce  soir  a  la  reception  de 
leur  fille.  Mais  ils  n'arrivferent  qu'a  onze  heures.  lis  ^taient 
rest^s  fiddles  a  la  Rive-Gauche,  et  I'hotel  des  Pierrelaye,  situe 
avenue  Henri-Martin,  leur  semblait  en  Seine-et-Oise. 

Or,  dans  le  vestibule,  en  m^me  temps  qu'eux,  arriva  un 
jeune  homme  de  petite  taille,  mince,  brun,  que  Mme  Beauny 
ne  put  regarder  sans  surprise.  Ou  avait-elle  d6ja  vu  ce 
jeune  homme  ?  Car  elle  I'avait  vu,  elle  I'avait  connu,  lui 
semblait-il,  connu  autrefois,  k  une  6poque  vague,  en  des 
circonstances  encore  impr6cises,  mais  trfes  particuli^res. 

Tout  en  donnant  son  manteau  au  vestiaire,  elle  tachait  de 
se  rappeler  ;  et  pour  stimuler  sa  .m^moire  paresseuse,  elle 
regardait  ce  jeune  homme,  attentivement,  sans  rien  dire. 

11  ota  son  pardessus,  le  livra  aux  domestiques,  puis,  faisant 
demi-tour,  passa  devant  Mme  Beauny,  qu'il  effleura  du  coude 
a  cause  de  la  cohue. 

—  Pardon,  madame  !  murmura-t-il  en  se  d6couvrant. 

Et  il  monta,  d'un  pied  alerte,  vers  les  salons. 

Mme  Beauny  poussa  une  exclamation  16gfere  :  elle  se  rap- 
pelait.  Ce  son  de  voix,  ce  front  mat  et  haut,  ces  dents 
brillantes  sous  la  moustache  sombre...  parfaitement,  elle  se 
rappelait !  Oyarsun,  le  malheureux  qui  s'6tait  tu6,  voila  vingt 
ans  !... 

Elle  palit  toute  a  ce  souvenir.  Le  jeune  homme  qu'elle 
venait  de  remarquer,  elle  ne  I'avait  jamais  vu  sans  doute  ;  mais 
il  ressemblait  tellement  a  un  ancien  anai  qu'elle  s'y  £tait 
trompee.  Oyarsun  I  il  lui  rappelait  ce  pauvre  Oyarsun,  un 
gar9on  de  vingt-huit  ans,  qui  avait  6i&  fou  d'elle  autrefois,  si 
fou  qu'il  en  6tait  mort  I 

Et  tandis  qu'elle  montait,  a  c6t6  de  son  mari,  le  large 
escalier  de  pierre  tapiss6  de  moquette  soyeuse,  Mme  Beauny 
se  rem6mora  cette  histoire,  cette  lugubre  histoire  qui  a\'ait  mis 


LA   RESSEMBLANCE.  71I 

une  ombre  dans  sa  vie,  et  a  laquelle  il  lui  6tait  encore  difficile 
de  penser  sans  un  serrement  de  coeur. 

Cat  Oyarsun  6tait  un  Basque  espagnol,  jaloux  et  passionn6, 
dont  les  yeux  la  poursuivaient  sans  r^pit,  a  tant  de  bals,  de 
premieres,  de  vernissages.     Un  soir  —  c'6tait  chez  les  Hontar- 
r^e  —  elle  avait  eu  le  tort  de  lui  accorder  deux  valses.   Depuis 
lors,  le  jeune  Espagnol  s'6tait  cru  des  droits  sur  elle  et  Tavait 
poursuivie,  non  seulement  de  ses  regards,  mais  de  ses  declara- 
tions,  de   ses  pri^res.     Elle  Tavait  trouv6  gentil   d'abord  :  il 
parlait  si  tendrement,  avec  un  accent  si  drole  ;  ses  yeux  ^taient 
si  hardis,  avec  une  lumi^re  si  douce!...  Ah  !  oui,  il  etait  gentil  I 
Mais  elle  n'6tait  marine  que  depuis  trois  ans,  elle  venait  d'etre 
m^re  de  sa  jolie  Silvette ;  et  elle  aimait  son  mari,  elle  adorait  sa 
iille  :  il  avait  fallu  dire  a  TEspagnol  de  cesser  bien  vite  ;  et, 
comme  il  n'en  faisait  rien,  elle  avait  6t6  obligee  de  lui  fernier 
sa  porte.    Alors,  grand  d^sespoir,  lettres  6perdues  et  toute  la 
lyre  des  coeurs  bris6s.     Un  soir,  Mme  Beauny  re9ut  un  billet 
extraordinaire,  dans  lequel  I'ardent  Oyarsun  mena9ait  de  se 
bruler  la  cervelle  si  on  ne  lui  accordait  pas  une  entrevue, 
une  entrevue  de  cinq  minutes  au  Bois  de  Boulogne,  prfes  de  la 
mare  St-James  :  "  Venez,  je  vous  en  supplie  I    Venez  si  vous 
ne   voulez  pas  avoir  une   mort  d'homnie  sur   la  conscience. 
Kassurez-vous  —  6crivait-il  —  je  ne  vous  demanderai  rien,  rien 
que  la  joie  de  vous  voir  une  fois  encore  et  de  baiser  votre  main 
avant  de  vous  dire  adieu."     Et  le  billet  6tait  sign6  :  ^*  Celui  qui 
mourra  en  pensant  a  vous  :  Juan   Oyarsun."     Comme  Mme 
Beauny  avait  6t6  troubl6e  a  cette  lecture  !    Pauvre  gar^on  I    II 
I'aimait  bien  I  fallait-il  rester  implacable  ?     Pourquoi  ne  pas 
lui  accorder  cette  entrevue  de  cinq  minutes  dans  un  endroit 
public  ?    Que  risquait-elle  ?    S'il  allait  vraiment  se  tuer  ?...  Et 
aprte  avoir  h6sit6  longtemps,  elle  s'6tait  d6cid6e  a  prendre  un 
fiacre  et  a  se  rendre  a  la  mare   Saint-James.      Elle  y  avait 
trouv6  Oyarsun,  ils  s'6taient  promen^s  ensemble  sous  les  pins 
noirs  qui  bordent  la  mare  du  c6t6  de  Neuilly,  puis,  comme 
I'Espagnol  devenait  plus  pressant,  plus  inqui^tant,   avec   ses 
yeux  noirs  qui  s'emplissaient  de  lumiferes  etranges,  elle  avait 
fait  demi-tour  pour  rentrer.     Mais  Oyarsun  Tavait  suivie,  I'avait 
suppli6e ;    et,  voyant  qu'elle    partait   tout  de   m6me,   qu'elle 
refusait  de  Tentendre,  il  lui  avait  dit,  d'une  voix  singuliere, 


7 1 2  COSMOPOLIS. 

toute  vibrante  de  folic  :  ''  Je  me  tue,  vous  savez  ?  Je  me  tue 
si  je  ne  peux  plus  vous  revoir !  —  Eh  I  tuez-vous  !  lui  avait- 
elle  r6pondu,  exc6d6e.  — C'est  bon  !  mais  je  vais  commencer 
par  vous-mfime  I  avait  d6clar6  le  jeune  Basque.  Et  il  s'^tait 
pr6cipit6,  un  revolver  au  poing.  Mme  Beauny  poussa  un 
cri.  Deux  balles  sifflferent  a  ses  oreilles.  Elle  se  sau\'a, 
terrifi6e ;  elle  courut  sous  les  pins  sombres,  courut,  entendit 
deux  d6tonations  encore.  Oh  !  le  forcen6  !  Tirait-il  de 
nouveau  sur  elle  ?  tirait-il  sur  lui  ?  Elle  ne  s'amusa  pas  a 
tourner  la  tete.  Elle  courut  plus  vite,  sortit  du  hois  de  pins, 
vit  un  fiacre  qui  passait  a  vide,  lui  fit  signe  et  monta  dedans, 
plus  morte  que  vive.  Alors  seulement,  elle  s'aper^ut  qu'une 
balle  avait  traverse  sa  voilette.  C'6tait  tout.  Pas  de  blessure. 
Le  lendemain,  elle  apprit  par  les  journaux  qu'un  jeune  homme 
petit,  brun,  maigre,  s'6tait  tu6  au  Bois  de  Boulogne  :  on 
avait  trouv6  sur  lui  des  cartes  au  nom  de  fuan  Oyarsun.  M. 
Beauny  ne  soupgonna  rien.  II  ne  savait  pas  que  sa  femme  eiit 
inspire  une  telle  passion  a  ce  malheureux.  Quand  on  lui 
apprit  ce  suicide,  il  d^clara  sur  un  ton  judicieux  de  savant : 
"  ^a  ne  m'6tonne  pas :  un  d6s6quilibr6,  un  c6r6bral,  puis 
une  tete!...  On  se  tue  beaucoup  avec  cette  tdte!"  Mme 
Beauny  n'avait  jamais  souffl6  mot  do  cette  afFreuse  aventure. 
Le  fiacre  qu'elle  avait  pris  pour  rentrer  s'etait  mis  a  rouler 
avant  que  les  coups  de  revolver  eussent  attir6  du  monde ;  et 
personne  n'avait  pu  supposer  qu'elle  fiit  ix)ur  quelque  chose 
dans  ce  drame.  Mais  im  petit  frisson  lui  en  6tait  rest6  tout 
de  meme  ;  et,  ce  soir  encore,  quoiqu'il  y  eut  plus  de  vingt  ans 
de  cela,  elle  tremblait  dans  son  coeur,  k  ce  terrible  souvenir,  en 
montant  I'escalier  de  pierre  tapiss6  de  moquette  soyeuse,  le 
large  escalier  qui  laissait  tomber  sur  les  visiteurs  des  bruits 
lointains  d'orchestre  et  de  conversations. 

Elle  arriva  au  premier.  Les  lumi^res  du  grand  salon 
r^blouirent  un  peu.  Elle  aper^ut  sa  fille  aupr^  de  la  porte  et 
elle  eut  une  grosse  envie  de  I'embrasser  sur  les  deux  joues,  a 
cause  de  ces  odieuses  pens^es  qu'avait  fait  naitre  un  invito 
quelconque  ressemblant  a  Oyarsun.  Mais  elle  se  contint, 
sachant  que  les  joues  d'une  femme  sont  choses  sacr^es,  un  soir 
de  reception.  Elle  se  contenta  d'exprimer  a  sa  fille  toute  sa 
tendresse,  toute  sa  fiert6  de  m6re  vieillissante  dans  une  poignec 


LA   RESSEMBLANCE.  713 

de  main  et  un  sourire.  Ah  !  oui,  elle  etait  belle,  Mme  Sil- 
vette  de  Pierrelaye,  et  vraimept  si  sa  mere  avait  eu  autrefois 
cette  grace  radieuse,  il  6tait  excusable,  le  petit  Espagnol 
^conduit,  de  s'6tre  fait  sauter  la  cervelle. 

Mais  comme  Mme  Beauny  traversait  le  salon  pour  aller 
serrer  la  main  a  une  de  ses  cousines,  elle  vit  le  jeune  homme 
de  tantot,  le  petit  brun  qui  lui  avait  rappel^  Oyarsun,  se 
rapprocher  de  Mme  de  Pierrelaye  et  lui  parler  a  demi-voix, 
d'un  air  familier,  comme  un  ami.  Cette  conversation  dura 
deux  minutes  et  Mme  Beauny  s'en  etonna.  C6tait  done  un 
intime,  ce  jeune  homme  ? 

Intrigu6e,  elle  rejoignit  sa  fille  des  qu'il  eut  tourn^  le  dos  et 
elle  lui  demanda,  non  sans  emotion  : 

—  Qui  est-ce  ? 
Silvette  r^pondit  : 

—  Un  ami  de  mon  mari. 

—  Ah  ?     Comment  s'appelle-t-il  ? 

—  Etchequito. 

—  Qu'est-ce  qu'il  fait  ? 

—  II  est  secr6taire  a  Tambassade  d'Espagne. 

—  D'Espagne  ?  murmura  Mme  Beauny  avec  un  tressaille- 
ment  16ger. 

—  11  t'interesse  ?     Je  vais  te  le  presenter.     11  est  tr6s  gentil. 

*  Et,  avant  que  sa  mfere  eut  trouv6  le  temps  de   r6pondre, 
Silvette  alia  chercher  le  jeune  Espagnol,  le  lui  amena  et  dit : 

—  Monsieur  Ramon  Etchequito,  maman.  Un  enthousiaste 
du  pays  basque,  Basque  lui-meme ;  et  comme  ce  pays  t'a 
toujours  int6ress6e,  vous  vous  entendrez  vite.  Je  vous  laisse 
causer. 

Causer  ?  la  mfere  de  Mme  de  Pierrelaye  ne  le  put  guire 
Son  trouble  6tait  trop  visible.  Que  d'6tranges  coincidences  I 
Non  seulement  ce  jeune  homme  ressemblait  a  Oyarsun,  mais 
encore  il  6tait  Espagnol  comme  lui,  Basque  comme  lui  1 

Si  elle  avait  6t6  assez  calme  peur  r6fi6chir,  elle  aurait  trouv6 
que  le  cas  ne  pr6sentait  rien  d'extraordinaire.  En  effet ;  quoi 
d'6tonnant  a  ce  qu'un  Basque  espagnol  ressemblat.a  un  autre 
Basque  espagnol  ?  La  ressemblance  aurait  paru  plus  extraor- 
dinaire si  les  deux  hommes  avaient  <^t6  de  nationalitc 
ditif6rente  1 


7I4  OOSMOPOLIS. 

D'ailleurs,  Mme  Beauny  trouva  tout  de  suite  quelques  dis- 
semblances notables.  Ce  jeune  homme-ci  6tait  moins  brun 
que  I'autre,  il  6tait  moins  maigre,  il  avait  plus  de  distinction. 
Mais  la  voix  avait  le  memes  sonorit6s  tendres  ;  I'oeil,  les  memes 
flammes  noires,  et  cela  sufHsait  a  bouleverser  la  mere  de 
Silvette,  I'ancien  flirt  d'Oyarsun.  Un  geste  qu'il  fit,  pour 
prendre  dans  la  poche  de  son  habit  le  programme  de  la  soiree, 
lui  rappela  le  geste  de  I'autre,  quand  il  avait  sorti  son  revolver, 
et  elle  eut  un  16ger  frisson.  Elle  s'en  alia,  sous  un  pretexte 
tjuelconque,  et  pale,  troublee  a  s'6vanouir,  elle  rejoignit  son 
niiiri  au  buffet. 

Kegardez  !  lui  dit-elle  a  demi-voix.  Kegardez  ce  jeune 
liomnic  brun  qui  parle  en  ce  moment  a  niadame  de  Vireilhes  ; 
nc  vous  rappelle-t-il  rien  ? 

Le  savant  assujettit  son  binocle  et  regarda. 

—  Rien  !  r6pondit-il. 

—  -  Examinez  bien.  Ne  trouvez-vous  pas  qu'il  ressemble  a 
quelqu'un,  a  quelqu'un  que  nous  avons  connu  autrefois  ? 

—  Tiens,  mais  oui !  Oyarsun  !  murmura  le  docteur.  Oyar- 
sun,  le  petit  Basque...  C'est  vrai,  il  y  a  quelque  chose  ! 

—  Beaucoup  de  choses  ! 

—  Cest  possible,  en  etfet.     Les  memes  ycux... 
-  Et  le  mcme  sourire  ! 

—  Mais  oui,  mais  oui  !     Cest  frappant ! 

Et,  revenant  a  ses  clieres  theories,  le  siivant  ne  put 
s'ompecher  d  ajouter  : 

—  AUons  I  a  quand  ic  suicide  dc  celui-la  'i 
Madame  Beauny  eut  im  sursaut. 

—  yu'est-ce  que  vous  dites  ?  demanda-t-elle.  Vous  crovez 
done  ?... 

—  Oh  I  rien,  rien  I  simple  conjecture.  Ce  n'est  pas  une 
raison  certainement,  parce  qu'il  ressemble  a  I'autre...  Non  ! 
Mais  enfin... 

Et  le  savant  conclut : 

—  II  faudra  voir  tout  de  meme  1  Je  vais  me  faire  presenter 
ce  monsieur. 

Ces  paroles  n'6tonnferent  pas  6norm6ment  Mme  Beauny ; 
elle  connaissait  les  idtes  de  son  mari  sur  les  ressemblances. 
Pourtant,  cet  "  il  faudra  voir  tout  de  meme  ! "  lui  fit  froid  dan^ 


LA   REbSEMBLANCE.  715 

le  dos.  Pauvre  jeuiie  hoinme !  s'il  allait  vraiment  tinir 
comme  Tautre  ?  S'il  allait  se  tuer  par  amour,  lui  aussi  ?  Et 
voyant  I'Espagnol  rejoindre  Silvette,  dans  un  coin  du  petit 
salon,  elle  eut  tout  a  coup  une  pens^e  ctrange,  qui  lui  oppressa 
le  coeur. 

—  S'il  allait  faire  la  cour  a  ma  fille  ?     S'il  allait  aussi... 
Brusquement,    devant    les    yeux    de    Mme    Beauny,    cettc 

perspective  s'ouvrait :  oui,  cet  Espagnol,  qui  ressemblait  a. 
Oyarsun,  pourrait  aimer  cette  jeune  femme,  qui  ressemblait 
a  celle  qu'Oyarsun  avait  aim6e.  Pourquoi  pas?  Pour  tout 
le  monde,  il  y  aurait  eu  des  probabilit6s  inqui^tantes ;  ix)ur 
Beauny,  n'y  avait-il  pas  une  certitude  morale  ?  Est-ce  que 
deux  hommes  de  meme  origine,  de  meme  age,  de  meme  cons- 
titution physique,  ne  doivent  pas  avoir  une  tendance  a  se 
comporter  pareillement  en  presence  de  deux  femmes  d'origine, 
d'age  et  de  constitution  identiques  ?  L'hypothese  n'6tait-elle 
pas  un  peu  fondle  ?  N'aurait-elle  pas  donne  a  refl6chir  aux 
plus  sceptiques  ? 

Mme  Beauny  eut  peur.  Ces  r6flexions  Tassombrissaient  ; 
elle  n'entendit  aucun  morceau  du  programme,  elle  ne  sut 
trop  ce  qu'elle  dit  aux  amis  rencontr6s  9a  et  la,  dans  les 
salons  clairs,  ou  les  murs  blancs  et  nus,  selon  le  style  du  jour, 
s'eclairaient  encore  de  tant  d'6paules  nues  et  blanches.  Elle 
ne  pensait  qu'a  cette  chose  affreuse,  a  la  jx>ssibilit6  d'une 
intrigue  amoureuse  entre  sa  fille  et  cet  Espagnol,  a  la  possi- 
hilite  d'un  d6nouement  semblable  a  celui  d'autrefois.  Si 
Etchequito  tirait  sur  son  amie  comme  Oyarsun  avait  tir6 
sur  la  sienne  ':'  Les  balles  se  comporteraient-elles  de  la  meme 
fa9on  ?    Ce  n'etait  pas  prouv6. 

—  Oh  !  ma  ch6rie,  ma  ch6rie  1  alia  dire  Mme  Beauny  a 
sa  fille  avec  un  effroi  tendre,  une  Amotion  insurmontable  qui 
lui  humectait  lee  yeux. 

—  Eh  bien  1  qu'est-ce  que  tu  as  ?  demanda  la  jeune  femme. 

—  Viens  par  ici  I     Viens,  j'ai  quelque  chose  a  te  dire  ! 

Et,  dans  une  chambre  a  c6t6,  une  pi6ce  obscure  ou  il  n'y 
avait  personne  en  ce  moment,  Mme  Beauny  demanda  a  sa 
fille: 

—  Depuis  combien  de  temps  connais-tu  ce  secr6taire  d'am- 
bassade  ? 


7l6  COSMOPOLIS. 

-  Etchequito  ?    Trois  mois,  quatre  peut-etre. 

—  Tu  le  vois  souvent  ? 

—  Assez.     II  est  trfes  mondain. 

—  Eh  bien,  ne  le  vois  plus,  chdrie  !  Ne  le  vois  plus,  tu  me 
feras  plaisir. 

—  Tiens  !  pourquoi  done  ?     II  ne  t'a  pas  plu  ? 

—  Non. 

—  Ah  9a  ?  II  est  pourtant  gentil.  Toutes  ces  dames  se 
I'arrachent. 

—  9'a  "^  m'6tonne  pas.  Raison  de  plus  pour  que  tu  le 
hiisses  tranquille.  C'est  un  gar^on  dangereux.  Embrasse- 
moi,  Silvette  ! 

—  Oh  !  maman  ;  que  tu  es  done  sotte  !  que  tu  es  sotte 
d'avoir  de  ces  id6es !  dit  Mnie  de  Pierrelaye  en  s'effor^ant 
de  rire. 

Et  elle  embrassa  volontiers  sa  mfere,  puisqu'il  6tait  possible 
de  r6parer  la  fl6trissure  des  joues  dans  le  cabinet  de  toilette 
voisin. 

Etchequito  entrait  justement. 

Mais  Silvette  le  renvoya,  d'un  regard  expressif.  Mme 
I:Jeauny,  surprit  cc  signe  et  pensa  : 

—  Pourvu  qu'il  ne  soit  pas  trop  tard  ! 

Tous  les  artistes  avaient  ehant6  ;  les  invites  se  levaient ;  le 
brillant  Etchequito  s'inclina  devant  une  jeune  femme,  lui  offrit 
son  bras,  puis  passa  au  buffet  avee  elle. 

Mais  ce  bras,  quelque  gracieuse  que  fut  sa  courbe,  faisait 
toujours  un  geste  pour  les  yeux  inquiets  de  Mme  Beauny : 
le  geste  qui  tue. 

II 

Pendant  les  jours  qui  suivirent,  il  fut  difficile  a  la  m^re  de  la 
comtesse  de  Pierrelaye  de  ne  pas  penser  h  ce  M.  Etche- 
quito. Ses  alarmes  eontinuaient.  Elle  sedemandait  pourquoi 
Silvette  ne  lui  avait  pas  parl6  plus  tot  du  secr6taire  d'ambassade. 
Etait-ce  hasard  ?  6tait-ce  caleul  ? 

Caleul,  non  !  Elle  ne  voulait  pas  admettre  que  sa  fiUe,  qui 
s*6tait  si  bien  tenue  jusqu'alors,  eiit  quelque  intrigue  myst6rieuse 
avec  ce  jeune  liomnie.  D'ailleurs,  puisque  des  analogies  seules 
effrayaient   son  coeur  dc  mdre,  ne  devait-elle  pas  se  rassurer 


LA  RESSEMBLANCE.  717 

sur  ce  point  ?  Elle  n'avait  pas  aim6  Oyarsun  :  pourquoi  sa 
fille  aimerait-elle  Etchequito  ?  Puis  ravertissement  avail  dt6 
donn6  ;  et,  sans  doute,  Silvette  en  tiendrait  compte  :  elle  ne 
recevrait  plus  I'EspagnoL     Pourquoi  done  s'inqui6ter  encore  ? 

Trois  ou  quatre  fois,  elle  revit  sa  fille  :  il  ne  fut  pas  question 
d'Etchequito  ;  il  devait  6tre  oubli6. 

Mais  un  mardi  —  Mme  de  Pierrelaye  recevait  le  mardi — 
Mme  Beauny  eut  I'idte'd'aller  avenue  Henri-Martin,  vers  les 
cinq  heures.  Et,  parmi  les  visiteurs,  elle  trouva  le  secr6taire 
d'ambassade. 

Cette  d6couverte  ne  fiit  pas  de  son  gout.  Elle  attendit  que 
tout  le  monde  fut  parti ;  puis,  seule  avec  sa  fille,  elle  lui  dit, 
attrist6e  : 

—  Je  t'avais  pri6e  de  ne  plus  recevoir  ce  monsieur. 

—  Quel  monsieur  ? 

—  Etchequito. 

—  Ah  !  oui !  c'est  vrai.  Mais  que  veux-tu,  ma  pauvre 
maman  ?  C'est  mon  jour  :  je  dois  y  6tre  pour  tout  le  monde, 
a  mon  jour. 

Et  Mme  de  Pierrelaye  s'empressa  de  soumettre  a  sa  mfere 
des  ^chantillons  de  velours  anglais  trte  jolis,  mauves  mourants 
verts  ing6nus,  bleus  nostalgiques,  qu'on  lui  proposait  pour  sa 
maison  de  campagne.     Lequel  choisir  ? 

—  Elle  m'a  tout  Tair  d'escamoter  I'Etchequito  !  pensa 
Mme  Beauny  avec  peine. 

Et  elle  se  promit  de  surveiller  sa  fille  de  plus  prfes. 

Le  samedi  suivant,  6tant  revenue  a  Timproviste,  vers  les  trois 
heures  de  I'aprfes  -  midi,  elle  la  trouva  en  t6te-a-t6te  avec 
TEspagnol. 

A  cette  vue,  elle  ne  put  retenir  un  mouvement  de  contrariety. 

— •  Tiens  !  te  voila,  maman  ?  Que  c'est  gentil  !  dit  Silvette 
en  aliant  I'embrasser.  Je  n'ai  pas  besoin  de  te  pr6senter 
M.  Etchequito.  II  est  venu  voir  nos  tableaux,  en  passant. 
II  fait  si  beau  soleil  aujourd'hui  ... 

—  Oui,  j'ai  profit6...  balbutiait  le  jeune  homme  quis'6tait 
lev6,  qui  s'inclinait,  qui  faisait  de  vains  efforts  pour  expliquer 
sa  presence  che/  Mme  de  Pierrelaye  a  cette  heure-li.  — J'ai 
profite  de  ce  jour  exquis,  trfes  favorable  aux  tableaux...  II  faut 
voir  les  tableaux  en  plein  jour  ;  Telectricit^  les  tue,  c'est  mon 


7l8  COSMOPOLIS. 

opinion.     Ainsi  vos  Ribot,  madame,  c'est  la  premifere  fois  que 
je  les  vois,  positivement.     Quant  aux  Diaz... 

Mais  Mme  Beauny  lui  fit  grace  du  reste. 

—  Vous  allez  bien  depuis  I'autre  soir  ?  demanda-t-elle  en 
s'asseyant  vis-a-vis  de  lui. 

Et  ses  yeux  cacherent  mal  une  petite  flamme  hostile. 

Etchequito  s'aper9ut  parfaitement  des  mauvaises  dispositions 
de  Mme  Beauny  a  son  egard.  lUsoutint  la  conversation 
pendant  trois  minutes,  puis  il  se  leva,  prfeenta  ses  respects^ 
chargea  hi  maitresse  de  maison  de  le  rappeler  au  souvenir 
du  comte,  et  s'en  alia. 

Mme  de  Pierrehiye  ne  le  reconduisit  que  jusqu'a  la  porte  du 
salon.  Des  qu'elles  furent  en  tete-a-tete,  les  deux  femmes 
parurent  egalement  genees.  EUes  abordcrent  deux  ou  trois 
sujets  de  conversation  qui  ne  prirent  pas.  Au  fond,  elles  ne 
pouvaient  penser  qu'a  Etchequito. 

— Eh  bien,  oui  !  avoua  gentiment  Silvette,  il  est  venu  voir 
les  tableaux;  est-ce  done  un  crime?...  11  aime  beaucoup  la 
peinture.  Les  Diaz  surtout  le  passionnent.  II  est  tres 
connaisseur,  tu  sais?...  Et,  a  propos,  ton  Diaz:  il  pourra  te 
dire  s'il  est  vrai  ou  faux  ;  montre-le  lui  done,  veux-tu  ?...  Moi, 
je  suis  persuad6e  qu'il  est  faux  ;  ce  n'est  pas  la  pate  de  Diaz, 
c'est  trop  noir  pour  un  Diaz.  Un  Diaz,  c'est  roux,  c'est  blond, 
c'est  oxygen6,  couleur  des  cheveux  de  madame  de  Vireilhes  !... 
Vn  biscuit,  maman  ? 

En  deux  temps,  tiois  mouvements,  elle  avait  renfoncc 
I'Espagnol  dans  le  quatri^me  dessous.  Elle  avait  I'air  de  ne 
plus  y  penser,  de  ne  plus  le  connaitre.     Etchequito  ?     Qui  9a  ? 

Mais  Mme  Beauny  ne  laissa  pas  d^tourner  la  conversation. 
Elle  dit,  en  refusant  le  biscuit  insidieux  : 

—  Si  ce  monsieur  6tait  venu  pour  voir  les  tableaux,  il  aurait 
pr^venu  ton  mari.  C'est  I'affaire  du  mari,  les  tableaux  ;  pas 
de  la  femme. 

—  Pourtant,  si  le  mari  n'y  est  pas... 

—  Justement,  il  aurait  du  y  etre.  Allons,  avoue  !  avoue  que 
ce  jeune  homme  te  fait  la  cour  ! 

Mme  de  Pierrelaye  recula — oh  !  a  peine  -de  quelques  centi- 
metres—  et  une  brume  16gfere  sembla  voiler  ses  yeux. 

—  Mais  non  I  repondit-elle  d'une  voix  singuliere — une  voix 


LA   RESSEMBLANCE.  719 

qu'elle  avait  autrefois  quand  sa  m^re  Taccusait  d'avoir  manque 
de  respect  envers  Miss. —  Mais  non,  il  ne  me  fait  pas  la  cour  ! 
Pourquoi  veux-  tu  ?... 
C'6tait  si  drolement  dit  que  Mme  Beauny  6clata  de  rire. 

—  Oh  !  ma  pauvre  petite  !  n'essaye  done  pas  de  mentir. 
Avec  ta  mfere,  9a  ne  prend  pas,  tu  sais  ?     Je  te  connais  si  bien  ! 

—  Pourtant,  je  t'assure... 

—  N'insiste  pas  !  Je  croirais  que  c'est  grave.  D'abord,  tous 
les  hommes  te  font  la  cour,  comme  de  juste,  et  si  celui-la 
s'abstenait,  ce  serait  bien  strange.  Mais  enfin,  il  faut  qu'il 
s'abstienne  !...  Les  autres,  9a  ne  pcut  avoir  aucune  importance, 
j'en  suis  sure  ;  mais  celui-la... 

—  Que  veux-tu  dire  ?  demanda  la  jeune  fcmme  d'un  air 
froiss6. 

—  Oh  !  pas  ce  que  tu  crois,  Silvette  !  pas  ce  que  tu  crois  ! 
r6pondit  Mme  Beauny  en  attirant  sa  fille  sur  son  coeur.  Non  ! 
j'ai  confiance  en  toi ;  je  sais  que  tu  es  une  brave,  une 
digne  femme,  incapable  d'oublier... 

—  Alors...  ? 

—  II  y  a  d'autres  raisons,  ma  chdrie,  des  raisons  trfes  graves, 
je  t' assure,  et  qui  devraient  t'empficher  de  revoir  cet  homme. 
Voyons  !  N'as  tu  done  plus  confiance  en  moi  ?  Tu  sais  bien 
que  je  t'aime,  que  je  ne  puis  vouloir  que  ton  bonheur  !... 

—  Mais  enfin  —  demanda  Mme  de  Pierrelaye  un  peu  ner- 
veuse — pourquoi  tant  de  bruit  a  propos  de  M.  Etchequito  ?  Je 
ne  le  vois  pas  plus  qu'un  autre,  je  te  jure.  Qu'est-ce  qu'il  t'a 
fait?  Pourquoi  Tfiloigner,  lui,  et  non  tel  ou  tel  ?...  Sais-tu 
que  tu  vas  le  rendre-intfiressant  ? 

Mme  Beauny  sentit  la  justesse  de  cette  remarque.  II  ne 
faut  jamais  dire  trop  de  mal  d'un  homme  a  une  femme  :  elle 
I'adorerait.  Pour  en  finir  avec  Etchequito,  pour  lui  fermer  a 
jamais  les  portes  de  la  maison,  il  aurait-  probablement  suffi 
d'avpuer  la  v6rit6,  de  raconter  Thistoire  d'Oyarsun.  Mais 
Mme  Beauny  ne  I'osa  pas.  II  y  a  de  ces  choses  qu'une 
femme  dirait  volontiers  a  un  indifferent  et  qu'elle  ne  saurait 
dire  a  sa  fille. 

Alors,  sournoisement,  elle  partit  en  guerre  contre  le  secretaire 
d'ambassade  et  tacha  de  le  diminuer,  par  mille  moyens  per- 
fides,  dans  I'esprit  de  Silvette.     Elle  se  moqua  de  son  teint,  de 


720  COSMOPOLIS. 

son  accent,  de  sa  petite  taille.  Puis,  voyant  que  cela  ne  rtus- 
sissait  gu^re,  elle  prit  des  airs  myst^rieux,  scandalis&»,  laissa 
entendre  qu'on  lui  avait  racont6  des  histoires  facheuses,  pro- 
bablement  fausses,  mais  enfin,  comme  il  n'y  a  pas  de  fum^e 
sans  feu,  n*est-ce  pas?... 

Silvette  regardait  sa  mfere  avec  stupeur. 

—  Mais  c'est  le  plus  honn&te  gar^on  du  monde !  *s'6cria-t- 
elle.  11  n'y  a  rien  a  dire  centre  lui,  rien  I  Faut-il  qu'on  soit 
m^chant  I 

Et  Mme  Beauny  s'aper^ut  effectivement  qu'au  lieu  de 
d6molir  Etchequito,  elle  lui  pr6parait  une  aureole,  que  ces 
attaques  injustes  lui  donnaient  des  droits  a  Testime,  presque  a 
I'amour.  Silvette,  qui  n'avait  pas  du  penser  beaucoup  a  lui  avant 
la  maladroite  intervention  de  sa  m^re,  semblait  hant^e  main- 
tenant  par  son  souvenir,  subjugu6e  par  ses  charmes.  Certes, 
elle  ne  le  recevait  plus  a  la  maison  puisqu'on  le  lui  avait 
d6fendu,  mais  il  6tait  facile  de  deviner  qu'elle  le  rencontrait 
ailleurs.  Elle  se  liait  avec  des  Garcia,  des  Henriques,  des  gens 
a  noms  caract6ristiques.  Et,  surement,  elle  n'allait  chez  eux 
que  pour  y  retrouver  Etchequito. 

Mme  Beauny  v6cut  dans  Tangoisse. 

Pour  comble  d'infortune,  le  pere  de  Silvette  fut  de  nouveau 
intrigu6  par  le  cas  de  ce  jeune  Espagnol.  L'ayant  revu  un 
soir,  dans  un  banquet,  il  Tinvita  tout  de  suite  a  venir  d6jeuner, 
et  le  petit  Basque  accepta  avec  empressement.  11  semblait 
enchants  de  renouer  avec  la  famille.  De  son  c6t6,  le  savant 
se  promettait  de  fructueuses  etudes  sur  ce  nouveau  sujet,  et  il 
I'accabla  de  ses  bonnes  graces.  Etchequito,  sensible  a  cet 
accueil,  demanda  quel  6tait  le  jour  de  Mme  Beauny.  11  fallut 
bien  le  lui  dire,  il  fallut  mdme  Tinviter  aux  petites  intimity  du 
dimanche  soir,  h^las  !  Et  le  mauvais  sujet  n'en  manqua  plus 
une.  Presque  toujours  il  s'y  rencontrait  avec  Silvette,  et  tous 
deux  flirtaient,  les  mis6rables !  avaient  des  tete-a-tdte  inqui^- 
tants  dans  les  coins,  recherchaient  un  peu  trop  I'isolement  et 
I'ombre. 

—  J'ai  bien  travaill6,  moi  !  pensait  Mme  Beauny  en  se 
mordant  les  Ifevres. 

Elle  n'osait  plus  rien  dire.  Elle  craignait  de  servir  encore 
Etchequito  en  le  pers6cutant.     Elle  fut  tent6e  d'interrompre 


LA   RESSEMBLANCE.  72 1 

ses  receptions  dominicales,  uniquement  pour  se  d^barrasser  de 
cet  homme.  Mais  sa  iille  aurait  compris,  et  cela  aurait  pu  la 
pousser  a  quelque  extr6mil6  facheuse.  EUe  6tait  irascible, 
Silvette ! 

—  A  quel  age  s'est  done  tu6  Oyarsun  ?  demanda  le  docteur 
a  sa  femme,  un  dimanche  soir,  aprfes  le  depart  d'Etchequito. 
Tu  dois  te  rappeler,  toi  ? 

Mme  Beauny  r6pondit,  d'une  voix  faible  : 

—  Je  ne  sais  plus...  A  vingt-huit  ans,  il  me  semble. 

—  Et  celui-ci,  combien  a-t-il  ?     Vingt-sept,  n'est-ce  pas  ? 
EUe  ne  put  s'empecher  de  fr6mir.     II  lui  sembla  entendre 

voler  des  balles  dans  la  maison,  et  entrevoir,  au  loin,  le  front 
trou6  de  Silvette. 

^'Oh  !  il  faut  les  sdparer  !  se  dit-elle  avec  6nergie.  11  faut 
eloigner  cet  homme,  immediatement,  coiite  que  coiite  ! " 

Elle  r6fl6chit  longtemps,  cette  nuit-la,  et  eut  une  inspiration  : 
si  elle  agissait  aupr^s  du  gouvernement  espagnol  pour  faire 
nommer  Etchequito  a  P6tersbourg,  a  Constantinople,  plus  loin 
encore,  dans  quelque  ile  perdue  ou  il  serait  forc6  de  rester 
toute  sa  vie,  de  rester  au  moins  jusqu'a  ce  qu'il  fut  vieux, 
jusqu'a  ce  que  Silvette  eut  perdu  la  beaut6  ? 

L'id6e  lui  parut  excellente.  Aussitot  elle  fit  des  demarches 
dans  ce  sens,  alia  voir  des  consuls,  des  ministres,  mit  en 
mouvement  plusieurs  membres  du  Parlement  espagnol  que  son 
mari  avait  connus.  Et  en  m^me  temps  elle  faisait  miroiter 
aux  yeux  d'  Etchequito  un  avenir  superbe,  un  avancement  con- 
siderable dans  les  colonies.  Chut !  Cetait  un  mystfere  encore  ; 
mais  pour  peu  qu'il  y  tint... 

Le  jeune  Basque  etait  beaucoup  plus  pratique  qu'elle 
n'aurait  cru.  Les  idees  avaient  change  depuis  Oyarsun.  II 
laissa  deviner  qu'une  excellente  sin6cure  ne  lui  serait  pas 
du  tout  desagreable  et  qu'il  planterait  volontiers  sa  tente  aux 
antipodes  s'il  6tait  sur  d'y  trouver  la  fortune. 

Mme  Beauny  fut  enchantee  de  ces  bonnes  dispositions  et 
continua  d'agir.  Elle  se  demena  si  bien  qu'elle  obtint  satis- 
faction. Un  decret  du  gouvernement  espagnol  annon^a,  au 
commencement  du  printemps,  qu'Etchequito  (Ramon),  6tait 
nomme  secr6taire-gen6ral  du  gouverneur  de  la  Havane.  Et 
la  mfere  de  Silvette  s'adressa  des  felicitations  enthousiastes. 


72  2  COSMOPOLIS. 

Knlin,  voila  un  gros  souci  de  moins  :  Etchequito  allait  partir. 
II  serait  a  rautre  bout  dii  monde  avant  d'avoir  vingt-huit 
ans.  Et  s'il  devait  jouer  du  revolver  a  cet  age,  ce  ne  serait 
toujours  pas.avec  Silvette.  Qu'il  op6rat  sur  les  Cubaines  si  9a 
lui  faisait  plaisir.     Bon  voyage  ! 

Mme  Beauny  6tait  radieuse.  Elle  s'imaginait  que  sa  fille  lui 
devait  deux  fois  la  vie. 

Elle  courut  lui  annoncer  la  bonne  nouvelle, 

III 

C'6tait  un  tiide  soir  d'avril.  Les  marroniiiers  de  Paris 
ouvraient  leurs  feuilles  neuves,  comme  de  pu^rils  eventails 
verts. 

La  mfere  de  Silvette  fit  atteler  et  fut  en  vingt  minutes  :i 
Tavenue  Henri-Martin. 

—  Madame  est  rentree  ?  demanda-t-elle  au  valet  dv 
chambre. 

—  Oui,  madame.     II  y  a  quelques  minutes. 

EUc  nionta  I'escalicr  a  la  hate.  Silvette  6tait  en  train 
d'ecrire  quelques  lettres  dans  son  cabinet  de  toilette,  quand  sa 
mfere  poussa  la  portc.     Les  deux  femmes  s'embrassirent. 

-  Quel  air  radieux,  maman  !    Tu   as  quelque  bonne  nou- 
velle ? 

—  Oui.     A  quoi  vois-tu  9a  ? 

—  A  tout.    Tu  es  d'un  pimpant...     Dis  vite. 

—  Eh  bien  !     Etchequito  est  nomm6. 

—  Ah  !  dit  faiblement  la  jeune  femme.  Et  elle  posa  son 
porte-plume. 

—  Secr6taire-g6neral  du  gouverneur  de  la  Havane  !  reprit 
Mme  Beauny  avecvolubilite.  Un  poste  magnifique  !  Trente 
mille  pesetas,  je  crois...  Ah  !  il  a  de  la  chance ! 

Silvette  avait  16g6rement  pali. 

—  Alors  c'est  ddfinitif  ?  demanda-t-elle  a  demi-voix. 

—  Tout  ce  qu'il  y  a  de  plus  d^finitif.  Le  d6cret  va  paraitre 
demain.  On  vient  de  m'en  informer  par  t61<^gramme.  C'est  un 
avancement  inesp6r6.     Il  va  bien,  ce  petit ! 

Mme  de  Pierrelave  baissait  la  tdte.     Elle  murmura  : 

-  AUons,  tant  mieux  !      J 'en  suis  bien  heurcuse  pour  lui 
Quand  part-il  ? 


LA   RESSEMBLAXCE.  723 

—  Tout  de  suite,  je  pense.  II  doit  etre  a  son  poste  le 
I    jum. 

II  y  eut  un  silence  p6nible.  On  entendit  vibrer,  sous 
Tebranlement  d'un  camion  lointain,  les  petits  carreaux  du 
cabinet  de  toilette,  comme  si  une  mouche  voulait  se  poser 
dessus. 

—  Qu'est  ce-que  tu  as  ?  demanda  Mme  Beauny  d'une 
voix  douce,  en  mettant  sa  main  sur  Tepaule  de  sa  fille.  (^a  te 
fait  dc  la  peine  qu'il  parte  ? 

—  A  moi  !...  pourquoi  veux-tu  ?  Puisque  c'est  un  avancc- 
ment ! 

—  Inesp6r6  !  Et  il  me  le  doit  un  peu,  je  peux  bien  te  le  dire. 
Je  me  suis  enorm6ment  remu6e  pour  lui.  11  est  sigentil,  n'est- 
cc  pas  ? 

Silvette  regarda  sa  mfere  avec  des  yeux  singuliers.  Puis,  pre- 
textant  une  migraine,  elle  passa  dans  sa  chambre.  Quelques 
minutes  apr^s,  ayant  voulu  la  rejoindre,  Mme  Beauny  lui 
trouva  les  yeux  gonfl6s  de  larmes. 

—  Oh  !  tu  pleures  ?  Qu'as-tu  done  ?  demanda-t-elle 
effray6e. 

Silvette  s'etait  lev6e  brusquement. 

—  Mais  non,  je  ne  pleure  pas  !  repondit-elle  avec  humeur. 
Et  ses  yeux  faisaient  de  vains  efforts,  pour  cacher  leur 
tristesse.  — Ou  vois-tu  que  je  pleure  ?  J'ai  des  ennuis,  c'est 
vrai. 

—  Lesquels  ? 

—  Des  tas.  Un  petit  choix  d'ennuis.  (^a  pousse  toujours 
par  tas,  comme  les  champignons.  Tu  sais  que  deux  de  nos 
chevaux  sont  malades  ?  Vulcain  ne  pourra  pas  courir  au 
Derby...  Et  mon  mari  qui  comptait  sur  cette  bete!...  Puis 
il  y  a  Lacherrifere  qui  vient  encore  de  me  rater  une  robe.  Je 
n'ai  rien  pour  aller  demain  chez  les  Bois-Lancy  ;  mais  la,  rien  ! 
Ah  !  que  c'est  done  6nervant ! 

Et,  croyant  avoir  donn6  des  raisons  suffisantes  pour  expliquer 
son  chagrin,  elle  laissa  tomber  deux  larmes,  deux  petites  gouttes 
qui  mettaient  des  picotements  au  bord  de  ses  yeux. 

Mais  sa  m^re  ne  s'y  trompa  point  et  elle  resta  boulevers6e. 

C'6tait  bien  a  cause  d'Etchequito  que  Silvette  pleurait. 
Pourquoi  done  ?     Est-ce  que  ?... 

VOL.   IX.—NO.   XXVI I.  8 


724  COSMOPOLIS. 

—  Non,  non,  ce  n'est  pas  possible  !  se  dit  Mme  Beauny  en 
secouant  son  front  comme  pour  chasser  une  icl6e  singulifere, 
une  id6e  tenace  qui  voulait  y  p6n6trer. 

Elle  ne  quitta  plus  Silvette. 

Sous  prctexte  de  reparations  qui  mettaient  sa  chambre  sens 
dessus  dessous,  elle  vint  habiter  Thotel  des  Pierrelaye.  Et  elle 
tint  a  suivre  sa  fille  partout,  chez  les  couturiers,  chez  les 
modistes,  au  theatre,  aux  expositions,  et  cela  jusqu'a  ce 
qu'Etchequito  se  fut  embarqu6. 

Un  soir,  il  vint  annoncer  sa  nomination.  Et  quelques  jours 
apr&,  il  vint  faire  ses  adieux. 

Ce  fut  un  vendredi,  vers  Jes  quatre  heures.  Silvette  n'6tait 
pas  sortie,  ce  jour-la.  Peut-etre  I'avait-il  pr6venue.  Mais 
Mme  Beauny  n'6tait  pas  sortie  davantage.  Et  quand  elle  eut 
entendu  le  timbre  de  Thotel  annoncer  un  visiteur,  elle  se  pencha 
par  la  fenetre  pour  voir.  Elle  reconnut  le  petit  Basque. 
Trois  minutes  aprfes  elle  fut  au  salon  :  Silvette  y  ^taitd^ja. 

A  la  vue  de  Mme  Beauny,  le  jeune  homme  se  leva, 
s'inclina,  baisa  la  main  qu'on  lui  tendait  et  reprit  sa  place  avec 
aisance.  Son  visage  6tait  en  pleine  lumifere  ;  il  ne  paraissait 
pas  beaucoup  plus  triste  que  d'habitude. 

Par  contre  Silvette  semblait  d6sol6e.  Etchequito  avait  beau 
lui  sourire,  prendre  des  airs  d6gag&,  parler  de  son  voyage 
comme  d'une  promenade  a  Nice  ou  a  Luchon,  s'engager  a 
revenir  avec  une  cargaison  de  perroquets  ou  de  singes,  rien  ne 
pouvait  faire  passer  une  lueur  de  plaisir  dans  les  yeux  de  la 
jeune  femme.  Elle  restait  aflfreusement  grave ;  et  quand  elle 
6tait  obligde  de  prononcer  quelques  mots,  sa  voix  sonnait 
drolement ;  c'6tait  une  voix  courte,  sans  timbre,  comme  si  des 
sanglots  avaient  et6  tout  prfes.  Quelle  morne  et  inoubliable 
visite  !  Des  moineaux  piaillaient  sur  les  arbres  du  jardin  ;  on 
entendait  dans  la  cour  un  insupportable  ruissellement :  le 
cocher  devait  laver  la  voiture. 

—  Finissez,  Louis  1  Ce  bruit  m'agace  !  alia  dire  Silvette  par 
la  fenetre  d'une  chambre  voisine. 

Que  ne  pouvait-elle  dire  aussi  aux  moineaux  de  se  taire,  a  la 
lumi^re  de  ne  plus  entrer,  aux  pendules  de  ne  plus  marquer 
r^coulement  affreux  des  secondes  ! 

Elle  n'osait  plus  regarder  Etchequito.  II  y  avait  des  silences 


LA   RESSEMBLANCE.  725 

continuels,  des  moments  p6nibles  ou  Ton  croyait  entendre 
battre  les  coeurs,  et  dont  Mme  Beauny,  avec  son  bavardage 
^perduy  ne  faisait  pas  oublier  la  mauvaise  impression. 

Aprfes  un  de  ces  silences,  le  jeune  homme  se  leva.  II  6tait 
pale  ;  ses  yeux  se  baissaient,  craintifs. 

—  Adieu,  mesdames,  pronon9a-t-il,  je  vous  demande  pardon 
de  partir  si  tot ;  je  dois  prendre  le  train  dans  une  heiire. 
Puis-je  vous  prier  de  penser  un  peu  a  moi  ? 

Et  sa  voix  6tait  vraiment  touchante  alors. 

Silvette  s'^tait  lev6e  aussi ;  elle  avait  les  Ifevres  entr'ouvertes, 
la  respiration  courte.  Machinalement,  sa  main  s'avan9a,  ses 
yeux  se  ferm^rent.  Et  elle  sentit  sur  cette  main  les  doigts  puis 
les  levres  d'Etchequito.  Oh  !  sous  ce  baiser,  il  lui  sembla  que 
son  ame  s'en  allait,  doucement,  et  elle  dut  s'appuyer  au  piano 
tant  ses  jambes  tremblferent.  Elle  aurait  voulu  dire  des  choses, 
des  choses  myst^rieuses  qui  lui  montaient  a  la  gorge,  tout  a 
coup  ;  mais  en  voyant  sa  mfere  a  c6t6  du  petit  Basque,  elle  se 
tut. 

—  Vous  nous  6crirez  ?  demanda-t-elle  faiblement,  en  le 
suivant  des  yeux  —  de  ses  grands  yeux  qui  se  voilaient  de 
brume. 

—  Mais  comment  done  !  r6pondit-il,  tr^s  maitre  de  lui.  Vous 
exprimerez  mes  regrets  a  votre  mari,  n'est  ce  pas  ?  J'aurais6t6 
heureux  de  lui  serrer  encore  une  fois  la  main...  Quant  a  vous, 
madame — ajouta-t-il  en  se  tournant  vers  la  mfere  de  Silvette — 
permettez-moi  de  vous  renouveler  mes  remerciements  pour 
rint6ret  que  vous  m'avez  port6.  Je  vous  dois  beaucoup,  je  le 
sais,  et  je  vous  prie  de  croire  a  toute  ma  reconnaissance.  Vous 
avez  6t6  si  bonne,  si  devou6e...  Votre  intervention  m'a  6t6  si 
precieuse... 

Et  Etchequito  s'en  alia,  comme  tant  d'autres  s'en  vont,  tr^s 
poli,  trfes  correct,  en  murmurant  des  paroles  banales.  Silvette 
entendit  a  peine  ses  pas  sur  les  tapis  du  salon,  du  vestibule,  de 
Tescalier.  Et  deux  secondes  apr^s,  un  bruit  de  porte  qui 
s'ouvre,  qui  se  referme,  lui  annon9a  qu'il  6tait  parti,  le  petit 
Espagnol  aux  yeux  lumineux  et  au  sourire  tendre. 

Mais  alors,  elle  poussa  un  cri,  un  long  cri  ou  s'exhala  toute 
sa  tristesse  ;  et  elle  laissa  tomber  sa  tete  dans  ses  mains  en 
sanglotant. 


726  COSMOPOLIS. 

—  Silvette  !  ah,  mon  Dieu  !  Qu'est-ce  que  tu  as  ?  detnanda 
Mme  Beauny. 

—  J'ai  que  je  Taime  !  avoua-t-elle  dans  une  explosion  de 
sinc6rite.  J'ai  que  je  souffre,  que  je  souflfre  par  ta  faute  !  Ah  ! 
il  y  a  des  mferes  bien  terribles  ! 

Mme  Beauny  restait  an&intie. 

—  Comment  1    Tu  Taimes  ?  tu  I'aimes,  toi  ? 

—  Oui,  moi ! 

—  Ah  !  grands  dieux  !     Si  je  me  doutais  1... 

—  Tu  aurais  pourtant  pu  t'apercevoir... 

—  Oh !  sans  doute,  j'ai  remarqu6  bien  des  fois,  surtout 
depuis  quelques  jours...  Mais  de  la  a  croire...  Ma  pamxe 
enfant !  as-tu  done  perdu  la  tfite  ?  Toi,  toi  une  femme  si 
serieuse  ? 

— ^Rassure-toi  !  11  n'y  a  rien  !  Tu  n'as  pas  besoin  de 
gronder.  C'est  tout  platonique.  Je  ne  lui  ai  jamais  dit  que  je 
Taimais  ;  il  I'a  devin6  peut-^tre,  mais  je  ne  lui  ai  pas  donn£  le 
droit  de  le  croire.  Tu  n'as  pas  a  rougir  de  ta  fille,  va  !  Je  te 
le  jure ! 

Mme  Beauny  soupira  d'aise.  EUe  avait  craint  d'abord 
que  ce  ne  fiit  plus  grave.  Elle  ouvrit  ses  bras  et  serra  la  jeune 
femme  sur  son  cceur. 

—  Pauvre  ch6rie  !  s'exclama-t-elle.  (^z  passera !  tout  passe, 
heureusement !  11  ne  faut  pas  souffrir  surtout !  Promets-moi 
de  ne  pas  souffrir,  d'oublier  bien  vite!...  Est-ce  qu'on 
s'emballe  comme  9a  ?...  Mais  comment  s'y  est-il  pris,  ce  petit 
bonhomme,  pour  se  faire  aimer  ainsi  ?  Moi  qui  m'6tais 
figurde  qu'il  t'aga9ait ! 

— Ah  !  oui !  tu  croyais  que  c'6tait  lui  qui  m'adorait,  n'est-ce 
pas  ?  Quel  flair,  ma  pauvre  maman  !  C'est  moi,  au  contraire, 
moi  qui  suis  devenue  foUe  de  lui,  peu  a  peu  !...  Tiens!  c'est 
peut-etre  a  cause  de  toi ! 

—  Par  exemple ! 

—  Oui,  a  cause  de  toi.  Tu  as  6t6  siinjuste  pour  Etchequito, 
tu  I'accusais  de  tant  de  crimes  qu'il  n'avait  pas  commis !  Tu 
Tas  rendu  int6ressant,  je  t'assure.  A  present,  je  peux  bien  te  le 
dire ;  il  m'6tait  indifferent  avant  que  tu  ne  le  connusses.  II 
m'avait  fait  sa  declaration,  comme  tout  le  monde  ;  mais  je  n'y 
avals  pas  pris  garde.    Tandis  qu'apr^s,  quand  j'ai  vu  ta  fa9on 


LA   RESSEMBLANCE.  727 

d'agir  avec  lui...  Puis  tu  m'en  parlais  constamment !  Enfin, 
je  ne  sais  pas,  moi  ;  je  I'aime,  voila  tout.  Et,  la-dessus,  tu 
Tenvoies  aux  colonies  !  Ah  !  oui,  tu  es  terrible  !  Si  tu  avais 
voulu  me  tuer,  je  me  demande  si  tu  t'y  serais  prise  autre- 
ment. 

Mme  Beauny  la  serra  dans  ses  bras. 

~  Te  tuer !  s'6cria-t-elle.  Peux-tu  dire  des  choses  comme 
ga!     Si  tu  savais,  Silvette!  ..  Si  tu  savais  !... 

Et  alors  elle  avoua  tout,  elle  expliqua  tout,  en  un  flot  de 
paroles  tendres,  avec  des  caresses  infinies  de  ses  mains  qui 
tremblaient  : 

—  O  ma  Silvette  !  c'6tait  pour  ton  salut,  au  contraire  ;  oui, 
pour  ton  salut  que  je  faisais  tout  cela.  Je  m'6tais  imagin6e  que 
cet  Espagnol  te  porterait  malheur,  que  ta  vie  6tait  en  danger  a 
cause  de  lui.  Je  me  suis  trompde  peut-etre  ;  mais  il  ne  faut 
pas  m'en  vouloir.  Je  t'aime  bien,  tu  sais!...  Je  ne  t'ai  jamais 
dit,  c'6tait  un  secret!...  Ah!  il  m'en  coiite,  va !  Mais  puis- 
qu'il  le  faut,  puisque  tu  as  cru  que  c'6tait  pour  te  faire 
souffrir...  Sache  done  qu'Etchequito  ressemble  a  un 
autre  Espagnol,  que  j'ai  connu,  que  ton  p6re  a  connu, 
qu'il  lui  ressemble  d'une  fa<;on  frappante.  Et  cet 
Espagnol  m'a  courtisde  autrefois  —  tu  avais  deux  ans, 
ma  ch6rie.  —  Et  comme  je  I'ai  envoys  promener,  il  a  voulu  me 
tuer,  oui  me  tuer  ilia  fait  feu  sur  moi.  Ton  p^re  n'en  a  rien 
su,  personne  n'en  a  jamais  rien  su  ;  mais  c'est  la  v6rit^,  ma 
Silvette  !...  Et  alors,  que  veux-tu  ?...  Influenc6e  paries  theories 
de  ton  pere,  j'ai  craint  pour  toi,  ma  pauvre  enfant ;  j'ai  craint 
que  cet  homme,  qui  ressemblait  a  celui  dont  j'ai  6t6  aim6e,  ne 
t'aimat  aussi,  toi  qui  me  ressembles.  Et  je  n'avais  pas  com- 
plfetement  tort,  tu  vois.  J'ai  craint  qu'Etchequito  ne  se 
conduisit  comme  I'autre,  qu'il  ne  jouat  du  revolver,  lui  aussi,  et 
voila  pourquoi  je  le  d^testais,  pourquoi  j'ai  essay6  de  vous 
s6parer,  pourquoi  j'ai  6t6  heureuse  de  I'envoyer  au  bout  du 
monde.  Que  veux-tu  ?  Je  n'ai  pas  aim6  Oyarsun,  moi,  et  je 
ne  croyais  pas  que  tu  pusses  aimer  Etchequito.  Voila  toute 
ma  faute.    Ah  1  non,  tu  ne  me  ressembles  pas  ! 

Ces  r6v61ations  avaient  profond6ment  impressionn6  la  jeune 
femme.  Elle  regarda  sa  m^re  avec  surprise,  avec  tendresse  ; 
puis,  fermant    les   yeux,  elle  murmura,  d'une  voix  lente  ou 


728  COSMOPOLIS. 

r6sonnait   peut-etre  I'^cho  de  bien  despeines  mysterieuses,  de 
bien  des  tristesses  meconnues  : 

—  Toi,  maman,  tu  n'as  pas  aime  ce  jeune  homme  parce  que 
papa  t'aitnait.  Mais  s'il  t'avait  tromp6e,  si  tu  n'avais  pas  eu 
d'enfant,  es-tu  bien  sure  ?... 

Mme  Beauny  lui  ferma  la  bouche  avec  la  main.  Et,  pour 
toute  r6ponse,  elle  baisa  ses  paupiferes  mouill6es.  Oui,  voila 
peut-etre  pourquoi  elles  s'6taient  comport6es  diff6remment,  la 
m^re  et  la  fille. 

—  Tu  me  pardonnes  ?  demanda  Mme  Beauny  a  voix  basse. 
Elle  sentit  les  bras  de  Silvette  qui  la  serraient  affectueuse- 

ment,  dans  une  6treinte  eperdue. 

— D'ailleurs,  ajouta-t-elle  plus  bas  encore  —  si  bas  que  sa 
fille  entendit  a  peine  —  si  tu  souffrais  trop,  si  tu  n'arrivais  pas  a 
te  consoler,  eh  bien...  jet'aime,  moi,  jet'aimecommelaplupart 
des  mferes  aiment  leur  enfant,  c'est-a-dire  plus  que  tout  au 
monde...  Et  je  n'aurais  qu'a  dire  un  mot  peut-etre  :  il  revien- 
drait  ! 

Elle  se  trompait  en  cela  aussi. 

Quelques  mois  aprcs,  les  journaux  annoncferent  que  M. 
Etchequito  (Ramon)  6tait  mort  a  la  Havane,  dans  une  epid6mie 
de  fifevre  jaune. 

Jean  Rameau. 


LA  QUESTION  SOCIALE. 


Chaque  parti  doit  au  pays  rexplication  de  sa  doctrine  sur  la 
question  sociale. 

Quand  nous  nous  servons  de  ce  terme  :  "  la  question 
sociale,"  cela  ne  signifie  pas,  —  est-il  est  besoin  de  le  dire  ? — 
que,  dans  notre  pens6e,  tous  les  problfemes  de  cet  ordre  se 
puissent  ramener  a  une  formule  ni  a  une  solution  unique.* 
Ce  que  nous  entendons  par  la,  c'est  qu'il  nous  parait  impossible 
de  les  aborder  sans  une  id6e  directrice  :  les  expedients  de 
I'empirisme  y  seraient  impuissants.  S'il  faut  "serier  les 
questions  "  —  et  comment  ne  pas  le  faire  ?  —  il  ne  suffit  pas 
toutefois  de  les  envisager  isolement,  car  elles  sont  solidaires  : 
il  y  faut  une  vue  d'ensemble  ;  il  faut  s'61ever  d'abord  a  la  source 
des  id6es.' 

Or,  pouvons-nous  dugager  de  Thistoire  economique  do 
TEurope  et  du  grand  conflit  d'id6es  qui  Tagite  depuis  plus  d'un 
siecle,  une  conclusion  telle  qu'elle  nous  guide  avec  quelque 
certitude  dans  les  discussions  futures  ?  Aprcs  avoir  examine 
attentivement  chacun  des  systfemes  en  lutte,  pouvons-nous, 
tenant  en  main  les  v6rit6s  saisies,  combattre,  avec  une  vue  plus 
claire  et  une  conscience  plus  sure,  le  bon  combat  de  la  justice  ? 

Oui,  nous  croyons  qu'une  conciliation  est  possible  entre 
I'individualisme  et  la  collectivity  (association  ou  Etat),  et  que 
dans  cette  conciliation  git  la  v6rit6,  I'avenir. 

Voyez  rhistoire  de  Tassociation  : 

Le  regime  corporatif,  sa  grandeur,  sa  decadence,  en  France, 

*  '•  Croyez  qu'il  n'y  pas  dc  remedc  social,  parcc  qu'il  n'y  a  pas  dc  question 
>ocialc.  II  y  a  une  scric  dc  problciiics  a  rcsoudrc...  Cos  problemes  doivcnt  ctrc 
re>olus  un  a  un  et  noii  par  une  formule  unique."  (Gambetla,  discours  du  Havre, 
1 8  avril  1872). 

t  "Quand  j'ai  eu  decouverl  nies  principes,  tout  le  rcste  est  venu  a  nioi." 
(^M<jnlesquieu). 


730  COSMOPOLIS. 

en  AUemagne,  en  Belgique,  en  Hollande,  en  Angleterre,  en 
Italie ;  la  reaction  extreme  centre  ses  abus  ;  en  Angleterre  la 
R6forme,  en  France  hi  Revolution,  allant,  pour  les  supprimer 
et  pour  affranchir  le  travail,  jusqu'a  abolir  le  principe  meme 
d'association  ;  puis,  par  la  force  deschoses,  la  renaissance  de  ce 
principe,  complement  necessaire  de  la  liberty  du  travail,  mais 
sous  une  autre  forme  et  sans  les  vices  de  I'ancien  syst^me ; 
les  heurts,  les  chocs  inevitables  au  debut  de  cette  experience 
nouvelle  et  dans  la  crise  formidable  de  la  vapeur  ;  la  periode 
d'essais  que  nous  traversons  encore,  mel6e  d'erreurs,  de 
querelles,  de  violences  meme,  d6ja  marquee  pourtant  par 
redosion  admirable  d'organismes  de  plus  en  plus  souples  et 
forts, — est-ce  que  ces  grandes  transformations  6conomiques  ne 
nous  montrent  pas  la  voie  a  suivre,  le  but  a  atteindre  ?  Est- 
ce  que  les  innombrables  groupements  professionnels  qui  se 
forment  sous  nos  yeux  ne  sont  pas  les  germes  d'un  ordre 
nouveau  plus  rationnel,  plus  juste,  ou  I'association,  cr^atrice  de 
vie,  mere  de  liberte,  decuplera  les  forces  de  la  personne 
humaine,  vaincra  la  misfere,  et  ou  le  contrat  de  travail,  libre- 
ment  deiibere  par  la  raison  des  parties,  sera,  non  plus,  comrae 
cela  arrive  encore  trop  souvent  aujourd'hui,  un  joug  impose, 
mais  une  convention  veritablement  synallagmatique  ? 

Et,  de  meme  que  I'association,  TEtat,  lui  aussi,  Tassociation 
generale,  doit  ctre  dans  la  democratic  un  moyen  de  develop- 
per,  d'eiever  la  personne  humaine.  Opposer  TEtat  a  I'individu 
remet  en  pensee  le  mot  de  Pascal  :  "  Ceux  qui  font  les 
antitheses  en  forcpant  les  mots  sont  comme  ceux  qui  font  de 
fausses  fenetres  pour  la  symetrie."  11  n'y  a  la  qu'une  apparence, 
un  trompe-roeil.  Tout  accroissement  de  Taction  de  I'Etat  n'est 
pas  necessairement  un  obstacle  au  developpement  de 
rindividu.  S'il  en  etait  ainsi,  Tavenir  de  Thumanite  serait  bien 
sombre,  car  Ic  progres  de  la  civilisation  cr6e  un  appareil  de 
gouvernement  de  plus  en  plus  complexe,  et  rextension 
continue  des  fonctions  de  TEtat  est  un  ph6nomeme  correiatif 
a  la  marche  de  la  democratic,  aussi  bien  en  Angleterre  et  aux 
Etats-Unis  qu'en  AUemagne  ou  en   France.*     Cette  antithese 

•  Voir,  notamment,  Laveleye :  le  Gouvernement  dc  la  Democratic.  Shaw- 
Lcfcvre :  Discours  a  I'ouverturc  du  Congres  des  sciences  sociales,  Binningham, 
18^4.  J.  Brvcc  ;  The  Amciimn  Commoniveolth ;  loutc  I'Ecolc  histuriquc 
allcmaiidc,  c!c.,  etc. 


LA   QUESTION   SOCIALE.  73 1 

factice  entre  rindividu  et  I'Etat  est  d'invention  relativement 
recente.  Le  sifecle  dernier  ne  la  connaissait  pas.  Ce  grand 
dix-huitifeme  sifecle,  emancipateur  de  la  personne  humaine, 
admettait  cependant  I'intervention  de  TEtat,  pourvu  qu'elle 
s'exer9at  a  Tavantage  du  droit  individuel.  Proclamant  les 
droits  de  rhomme,  il  ne  craignait  pas  d'employer  I'autorite 
de  TEtat  a  les  sanctionner.  Cette  id6e,  confuse  encore  et 
entour6e  de  brumes  et  de  sophismes  dans  le  Contrat  Social* 
apparait  plus  precise  dans  le  Tableau  cles  progris  de  I'esprit 
hiimain^  ou,  le  premier,  Condorcet  parle  d'une  vaste  organisa- 
tion d'assurances  mutuelles,  d'assurances  faites  pardes  soci6t6s, 
et  d'assurances  faites  par  TEtat.! 

On  retrouve  les  memes  id6es  chez  les  autres  publicistes  et 
orateurs  de  la  Revolution, —  non  seulement  Mirabeau,  non 
seulement  Necker,  que  nos  socialistes  contemporains,  Louis 
Blanc  et  Benoit  Malon,  par  exemple,  ont  pu  revendiquer 
comme  un  pr6curseur,  non  seulement  les  disciples  de  Rous- 
seau comme  Sieyest,  mais  aussi  ceux  de  Montesquieu  §,  les 
esprits  les  plus  mesur^s,  les  plus  lucides  de  notre  admirable 
Constituante,  si  lib6rale,  si  sage,  si  humaine,  Target  H,  Malouet  T, 
Mounier  **  ;  et  ces  id6es  sont  formul6es  dans  la  Constitution 
de  1791.!  + 

Ce  ne  fut  que  beaucoup  plus  tard,  au  cours  du  dix-neuvieme 
si^cle,  que  les  lib6raux  et  les  6conomistes  devinrent  syst6ina- 
tiquement  hostiles  a  Tintervention  de  TEtat,  et  que  leur 
doctrine  finit  par  sc  confondre  avec  la  th6orie  du  laissez-faire. 
Cette  evolution  eut  deux  causes  principales :  I'influence  de 
TEcole  utilitaire  anglaise  et  la  lutte  contre  le  socialisme, — 
issu  lui-meme  de  cette  Ecole,  dont  il  est  le  lils  r6volt6. 

Pour  bien  comprendrc  la  deviation  qui  s'est  produite  en 
Angleterre  et  en  France,  il  suffit  de  comparer  Adam  Smith  a 
ses  disciples,  et  J.  B.  Say  aux  siens. 

*  Livre  II.,  ch.xi.  t  Dixiauc  c'poqiic. 

X  Archives  parUmcntaires,  1"  serie,  t.  v.,  p.  259. 

$  On  coiinait  sa  phrase  c^lebre  :  '*  L'Etat  doit  k  lous  les  citoycns  uiic  subsistaiicc 
absurec,  la  nourriture,  un  vetemcnt  convenable,  et  un  genre  de  vie  qui  ne  soit 
contraire  a  la  sante." 

II  Projet  de  Declaration  (^Archives  pivUmcntiurcs,  i"*  serie,  t.  viii.,  p.  288.) 

^    Seance  du  3  aout  17^9  {Anlmrs ptnicfmittttircs,  r«  serie,  t.  viii.,  p.  339.) 

*♦  Scaiicc  du  27  juillct  1781;  (An hives,  v^  ^el•ic•,  t.  viii.,  p  jS^) 

ft  Tihc  h'. 


73^  COSMOPOLIS. 

Adam  Smith,  voulant  affranchir  I'individu  des  entraves  du 
systeme  r«^glementaire,  r6duit  notablement  I'action  de  TEtat, 
mais  il  ne  la  supprime  pas  :  il  veut  rinstruction  populaire 
obligatoire*,  des  exercices  militaires  publics  t ;  il  admet  le 
monopole  de  certaines  compagnies  pour  le  commerce  d'outre- 
mer ;  il  conseille  Temploi  des  contributions  publiques  pour 
rendre  presque  obligatoires,  certaines  tenures  de  terre  et  engager 
les  propri^taires  a  cultiver  eux-mfemes  leur  domaine.  Surtout, 
il  a  soin  de  faire  une  distinction  essentielle  entre  la  partie 
thtorique  et  la  partie  pratique  de  I'^conomie  politique,  entre  la 
science  et  Vart.  S'il  6crit  les  Recherches  sur  la  richesse  des  tuitions, 
il  6crit  aussi  la  Thiorie  des  sentiments  tnoraux ;  il  voit  dans 
rhomme  autre  chose  qu'un  producteur  ou  un  consommateur,  et, 
comme  I'a  justement  observe  Lange  dans  son  Histoire  du 
Matirialismely  il  se  garde  de  r^duire  la  vie  humaine  au  seul 
"  march6  des  int6r6ts." 

Or,  voici  qu'au  contraire  ses  premiers  disciples,  Malthus, 
Ricardo,  n6gligent  ces  distinctions  n^cessaires,  et,  par  la, 
altferent,  compromettent  la  doctrine  de  leur  maitre.  Convaincus 
que  le  d6veloppement  de  la  production  est  le  meilleur  moyen 
d'am^liorer  le  sort  de  Thomme,  agent  de  cette  production, 
ils  en  arrivent  a  tout  subordonner  a  I'accroissement  de  la 
richesse,  qu'ils  considerent  comme  la  fin  derniere  de  la  vie 
sociale  et  le  souverain  bien  de  la  civilisation.  A  leurs  yeux,  la 
condition  de  I'enrichissement  g6n6ral  est  la  concurrence 
illimitde  dans  la  liberty,  soit  de  la  production,  soit  des 
^changes  ;  le  laissez-faire  devient  le  dernier  mot  de  toute 
philosophie  sociale.  Bentham  pousse  la  doctrine  du  laissez- 
faire  et  la  preoccupation  exclusive  de  I'utile  jusqu'a  leurs 
derniferes  consequences,  et  r6duit  le  devoir  a  un  calcul 
d'int6r6ts.  C'est  ainsi  que  I'Ecole  anglaise,  partant  de  Tindividu, 
toute  occup6e  a  le  d6fendre  contre  I'arbitraire  du  pouvoir  et  a 
stimuler  Tessor  de  la  richesse  par  la  libert6  illimit^e  du  travail, 
en  arrive  a  m6connaitre  le  role  n6cessaire  des  gouvernements. 
En  France,  on  vit  une  Evolution  d'iddes  analogue  : 
J.  B.  Say,  tout  en  combattant  le  systeme  prohibitif  et  I'Etat 

*  RccUcnhcs  stir  la  iitihtn  ct  Us  miisis  dela  hclicssc  des  nntioiis,  ed.  Cjuillauinin, 
t.  II.,  p.  445.  t  Ibid  I.  II.,  p.  44S. 

I  T.  II.,  p.  4(^)5.     Traduction  iraiKaisc. 


LA   QUESTION   SOCIALE.  733 

entrepreneur,  admet  cependant  que  le  gouvernement  accorde 
aux  producteurs  des  encouragements  et  des  primes ;  il 
applaudit  a  la  creation  de  I'^cole  d'Alfort  et  de  la  fenne  de 
Rambouillet  *  ;  il  reconnait  a  I'Etat  le  droit  de  pourvoir  aux 
grands  travaux  publicst  et  d'enseigner.J  Quant  au  mot 
fameux  qui  lui  avait  6t6  pret6,  "  gouvernement  ulcfere,"  on  Ta 
vainement  cherch6  dans  ses  6crits.§ 

Rossi,  a  son  tour,  pense  que  I'Etat  doit  assurer  "  non  seule- 
ment  la  prosp6rit6  mat6rielle,  mais  le  perfection nement 
moral  "il  de  I'homme  ;  pour  lui,  la  "mission"  de  TEtat  ne  se 
borne  pas  "  a  empecher  la  lutte  sanglante  des  int^r^ts  indivi- 
duels  et  a  prot6ger  chaque  individualit6 " ;  elle  est  "  plus 
elev6e."ir  L'Etat  doit  imposer  "une  certaine  6ducation  de 
I'esprit,  comme  il  exige  des  vetements  et  une  contenance 
d^cente  pour  le  corps."** 

Mais  voici  que  le  langage  de  Dunoyer  et  de  Bastiat  est  bien 
different.  Taine  a  observ6  avec  raison  que  le  livre  de 
Dunoyer  sur  la  Liberie  du  Travail  "  contient  par  anticipation 
presque  toutes  les  id6es  de  Spencer  (sur  I'Etat),  et  qu'il  n'y 
manque  guere  que  les  illiislrations  physiologiques."t+  Bastiat 
a  uniquement  en  vue  la  formation  de  la  richesse,  borne  toute 
Teconomie  politique,  toute  la  vie  socialea  I'^changet  Jet  s'attaque 
a  la  notion  meme  de  rEtat.§§  Comme  il  s'agit  pour  lui  de  com- 
battre  le  socialisme,  toute  action  de  I'Etat  lui  devient  suspecte  ; 
plus  les  socialistes  veulent  I'^tendre,  plus  il  s'efforge  de  la  borner. 
Le  pouvoir  des  gouvernements  est  toujours  consid6r6  comme 
obstacle.  II  semble  que  tout  ce  qu'on  donne  a  I'Etat,  on  I'ote 
a  I'individu,  de  meme  que,  dans  I'ordre  politique,  on  confond 
le  minimum  de  gouvernement  avec  la  liberty. 

Dans  son  beau  livre  sur  YlcUe  de  I'Etat,  M.  Henry  Michel  a 
tres   bien    montr6    que    telle  fut    la    pens6e    commune    des 

*  TraiU  d' Economic  politiqtfCjViv.  i^  ch.xviu  f  Ibid. 

J  Ibid.,  liv.  in.  ch.  vii. 

§  Jourdan  :  Du  role  dc  I'Etat  dans  Vordrc  6couomique^  p.  339  ;  note. 
II  Cours  d' economic  politique^  1. 11.,  p.  282. 
^  Ibid.,  t.  IV.,  p.  210. 
**  Ibid.,  t.  I"  p.  315. 

tt  Origincs  dc  In  France  contemporainc  :  Lc  r/ginie  modcrnCy  t.  i**"  p.  162  ;  note. 
XX  Harmonics  fcononiiqncs,  (GCuvrcs,  t.  vi.,  p.  93.) 

$§  Pttits    Paniplilets,  i.    (Kuvrcs,  t.  iv.,  p.  328  —  Cf.  Harmonics  konomiqncs, 
i(Kiivrc<.  t.  VI.,  p.  35().) 


734  COSMOPOLIS. 

doctrinaires,  des  lib6raux  et  des  6conomistes.  Oui,  doctrinaires 
de  la  Restauration,  engages  dans  la  lutte  contre  la  centralisa- 
tion a  outrance  de  la  Convention  et  de  1' Empire  ;  lib^raux  de 
la  monarchie  de  Juillet,  engages  dans  la  lutte  contre  le  suffrage 
restreint  et  le  ministfere  Guizot ;  6conomistes,  engages  dans  la 
lutte  contre  la  politique  protectionniste  des  majorit^scensitaires 
et  contre  le  mouvement  socialiste,  ces  diverses  families  d'esprit 
convergent  en  quelque  sorte  et  se  rejoignent ;  et  leur  idits 
trouvent  un  lien  a  la  fois  et  un  point  d'appui  dans  la  philosophie 
6clectique  de  Victor  Cousin,  qui  vient  consolider  ce  qu'on 
a  appele  **  Torthodoxie  6conomique,"  apparemment  parce  que 
Bastiat  faisait  de  son  systfeme  "  une  religion." 

Et  Ton  voit  ici  toute  la  distance  qui  s6pare  une  telle 
philosophie  sociale  de  la  pens6e  du  dix-huitifeme  sidcle  et  de  la 
Revolution. 

De  cette  deviation  est  n6  le  socialisme.  Ce  mat^rialisme 
moral  des  economistes,  qui  donnait  la  primaut6  aux  int^rels 
mercantiles  et  identifiait  I'accroissement  de  la  richesse  avec  le 
progrfes  de  la  civilisation,  comme  si  le  seul  moyen  de 
dcvelopper  la  personne  humaine  etait  de  multiplier  les  besoins  et 
les  moyens  de  les  satisfaire  ;  les  consequences  d^solantes  tirees 
par  les  disciples  de  Smith  de  sa  doctrine  mutil6e  ;  la  honteube 
exploitation  des  vies  humaines  et  de  I'enfance  meme  par 
I'industrie  britannique,  au  lendemain  des  guerres  de  TEmpire, 
grace  au  regime  du  laissez-faire  et  sous  pr6texte  de  respecter 
*'  la  liberte  "  des  piu-ents  et  des  patrons  ;  les  effets  d^sastreux 
de  ce  que  1  economic  politique  appelait  '*  lois  naturelles," 
comme  si  les  lois  civiles  et  p6nales  qui  reglent  Tacquisition 
et  la  transmission  des  biens,  la  propri6t6,  rh6r6dit6,  n'6taient 
pas  le  produit  d'une  oeuvre  poursuivie  pendant  de  longs 
si^cles  par  des  generations  successives  de  jurisconsultes,— 
cette  conception  exclusivement  utilitaire  engendra  le  socia- 
lisme. 

L'identite  du  principe  utilitaire  et  du  principe  coUectiviste 
saute  aux  yeux.  Le  socialisme  soi-disant  "  scientifique  "  n'cst 
autre  chose  que  I'^conomie  politique  retourn6e.  Marx,  c'est 
Ricardo  vu  a  I'envers.  La  th^orie  de  la  plus-value  sort 
directement  de  la  thtorie  de  la  rente.  Von  Thiinen,  Rodl^ertus, 


LA   QUESTION    SOCIALE.  735 

Lassalle  prennent  pour  fondement  de  leurs  di^ductions  les 
observations  incompletes  ou  errondes  de  TEcole  anglaise,  les 
exagerent  encore,  les  forcent,  les  faussent,  les  poussent  jusqu'a 
leurs  derniferes  consequences, —  jusqu'a  Tabsurde.  Et,  de 
meme  que  Bastiat  avait  fini  par  ne  plus  voir  dans  I'^conomie 
politique  que  r^change,  a  I'inverse  Marx  nie  et  proscrit 
rechange,  et  par  consequent  le  contrat ;  il  ne  reconnait  plus 
que  des  valeurs  A* usage:  les  produits  seront  livr^s  directenient  a 
la  consommation  par  I'organisme  administratif  qui  remplacera 
I'Etat ;  conception  retrograde,  enfantine,  contraire  a  la  realite 
a  la  marche  des  phenomenes  sociaux.  Puis,  par  une  autre 
aberration  qui  sort  de  celle-la,  il  pretend  renoncer  a  toute 
reserve  de  la  richesse  en  vue  de  la  creation  de  la  richesse  a 
venir,  et  consommer  aussitot  les  biens  une  fois  produits. 

Ainsi,  des  deux  parts,  aux  deux  poles,  soit  du  cote  de  I'econo 
mie  politique  utilitaire,  qui  ramene  tout  a  Techange,  soit  du 
cote  du  socialisme,  qui,  en  reagissant  contre  elle,  et  comme  pour 
retablir  I'equilibre,  ramene  tout  a  I'usage,  I'exageration,  I'erreur, 
— a  I'endroit  et  a  I'envers — sont  exactement  les  memes. 

D'une  maniere  analogue,  la  "republique  universelle  des 
produits,"  sortie  du  cerveau  des  economistes,  a  engendre 
rinternationalisme  des  socialistes.  L'economie  politique  etait 
cosmopolite  ;  elle  ne  tenait  aucun  compte  de  I'idee  de  race 
ni  de  nationalite,  des  differences  geographiques,  historiques 
ou  morales  entre  les  peuples  ;  comme  toute  science  abstraite, 
elle  ne  voyait  que  I'humanite.  De  meme,  le  socialisme  dit 
"  scientifique  "  ne  tient  nul  compte  de  la  politique,  de  la  philo- 
sophie,  de  la  religion. 

Ainsi,  le  socialisme  de  Marx  et  d'Engels  est  purement 
utilitaire  et  materialiste.  L'idee  de  la  justice  est  absente  de 
leur  oeuvre.  Et  c'est  la  ce  que  nous  entendons  par  cette 
expression  :  "  idees  allemandes."  Les  socialistes  fran9ais  pro- 
testent  vivement  la-contre  ;  pourtant  le  mot  est  juste,  et  voici 
pourquoi : 

Sans  doute,  Marx  doit  beaucoup  aux  socialistes  frangais. 
Saint-Simon,  par  exemple,  en  montrant  que  le  regime  de 
la  propriete  est  le  point  essentiel  de  toute  I'organisation 
sociale  et  que  la  est  la  premiere  reforme  a  operer,  avait  et^ 
le  veritable  initiateur  de  la  pensee  socialiste  en  notre  siede. 


736  COSMOPOLIS. 

Fourier,  lui,  avail  ecart6  la  politique  et  Tid^e  de  I'Etat,*  et  vu 
dans  I'industrie  la  puissance  par  excellence,  creatrice  d'un 
monde  nouveau  et  de  relations  nouvelles  entre  les  hommes.t 
Proudhon,  a  son  tour,  avail  con9u  I'id^e  qu'au  socialisme 
vague  et  humanitaire  de  son  temps  devait  succ^der  un 
socialisme  "  scienlifique"t ;  que,  la  production  6tant  devenue 
collective,  I'appropriation  ne  saurait  demeurer  individuellef ; 
que  le  travailleur,  mdme  aprfes  avoir  regu  son  salaire, 
conserve  "  un  droit  naturel  de  propri6t6  sur  la  chose  qu'il  a 
produite "  || ;  il  avait  songd  aussi  a  la  disparition  de  TEtat, 
remplac6  par  une  administration  purement  6conomique,  dont 
les  slalisticiens  seraienl  les  chefs  1^;  m^me  on  aper^oit  d^ja 
chez  lui  rid6e  de  la  plus-value,**  sur  laquelle  reposera  tout 
r^difice  du  Capital,  Enfin,  il  n'est  pas  jusqu'a  la  formula 
du  collectivisme,  qui  ne  se  trouve  d6jk  dans  les  essais  de 
Pecqueurtt  et  de  VidaltJ.  Done,  sur  tous  ces  points,  les 
socialistes  fran9ais  peuvent  l^gitimement  revendiquer  un  droit 
de  priorite  et  d'invention. 

Mais,  d'autre  part,  quelles  diff6rences  profondes  entre  I'idda- 
lisme  des  socialistes  fran^ais  et  I'apre  doctrine  de  Marx  et 
d'Engels  1  Saint-Simon  a  pour  premier  principe  Tamour,  la 
fraternity,  (la  meme  que  V Association  familiale  de  ses  disciples 
et  que  VHumanM  de  Pierre  Leroux);  il  attend  le  rfegne  de  la 
justice  d'une  hi6rarchie  sociale  acceptde,  d'un  clerg6  appel^ 
par  la  sympalhie  des  hommes  et  les  dominant  par  sa  supe- 
riority scientifique  :  par  la,  en  allant  au  chim^rique,  il  se 
brise,  mais  au  moins,  il  est  logique,  et  son  exemple  fait  voir 
comment  se  briseront  tous  les  systfemes  artificiels  au  moyen 

*  Th/orie  des  Quatrc  Motivcmcnts^  disc,  prelim.,  p.  5. 

t  Sonvcati  Monde  indtistiicl  ct  socictoirc,  t.  iii.,  p.  55. 

X  Premier  M/moire,  (Euvres  t.  i.,  p.  216. 

§  Ibid.,  (Euvres,  t.  i.,  p.  97.  ||  Ibid.,  CEuvies,  t.  i.,  p.  91. 

^  ''  Toutc  la  philosophie  sociale  est  dans  la  statistique  et  dans  la  tenue  des 
livres."    Avertissemeut  au.x  frofn'i^taires,  (Euvres,  t.  ii.,  p.  34  ;  note 

••  SysUme  des  contradictions  economiqucs,  t.  I.,  p.  243  (4*  ^d.). 

tt  Pecqueur  :  Des  ameliorations  matcriclles  dans  Icnrs  rapports  avcc  la  liberte 
1839). — TUt\me  nonrelle  d'economie  sociale  et  politique  on  Etude  sur  Vorganisation 
sociitcs  (1842). 

XX  Vidal  :  Dc  la  repartition  des  riehesses  on  de  la  justice  distributive  en  economic 
Nt)n<//c  (1846). — Vivre  en  travaillant,  projcts,  votes  et  inoyens  dc  njormes  sociaUs 


LA   QUESTION   SOCIALE.  737 

desquels  on  se  flatte  de  faire  r6gner  la  justice  id^ale  parmi  les 
hommes.  Fourier,  ami  de  la  vari6t6,  qui  est  la  vie,  combat  le 
nivellement;  I'^galit^  des  conditions;  il  est  spiritualiste, 
romantique,  m6taphysicien  et  thtosophe.  Proudhon  exhorte 
rhumanit6  a  accomplir  "  pacifiquement"*  la  revolution  qui 
doit  la  conduire  a  un  6tat  social  meilleur.  II  y  a  un  abime 
entre  sa  notion  du  droit  et  de  la  person  ne  morale,  entre 
la  place  qu'il  fait  en  toutes  choses  a  la  liberty  et  le  fatalisme 
des  socialistes  allemands,  qui,  lorsqu'ils  s'efforcent  de  manager 
quelque  place  a  la  libert6  individuelle,  font  voler  en  Eclats 
leur  dur  systfeme.  Quant  a  Pecqueur,  il  se  meut  hors  du 
r6el  :  "  Nous  recherchons,  dit-il,  la  formule  de  ce  qui  doit 
etre,  ind6pendamment  du  milieu  actuel  de  la  France  et  du 
monde.  Rien  de  plus  capital  a  nos  yeux  que  cette  exploration 
de  rid6al,  et  mdme  de  Tutopie/'t 

Ainsi,  les  socialistes  fran^ais  ^taient  sentimentaux,  id^alistes, 
tout  p6n6tr6s  de  m6taphysique,  de  morale  et  de  religion  ;  ils 
rdvaient  une  r6forme  des  esprits  et  des  coeurs,  une  regenera- 
tion de  rhumanite  par  Tamour.  Engels  raille  leur  enthou- 
siasme,  et,  par  le  titre  meme  de  son  livre,  Socialisme  utopiquc 
ct  Socialisme  scientifique,  montre  le  cas  qu'il  fait  de  leurs 
conceptions.  De  meme,  Marx  avait  accueilli  par  des  sar- 
casmes  les  proclamations  du  Gouvernement  provisoire  en 
1848.: 

Benoit  Malon,§  aprfes  s'etre  attache  a  rendre  aux  anciens 
socialistes  fran9ais  la  part  d'influence  qui  leur  revient,  re- 
proche  a  I'auteur  du  Capital  et  a  ses  disciples  de  "  retrecir  la 
question  sociale."  Pour  lui,  Thistoire  de  I'humanite  est  autre 
chose  qu'un  reflet  des  rapports  economiques,  et  la  lutte  des 
classes,  si  elle  est  un  element  important  de  la  vie  des  societes, 
ne  la  domine  pas  tout  entifere.  Bref,  il  essaye  de  rendre  a 
ridee  et  au  sentiment  de  la  justice,  absents  de  Tceuvre  de  Marx 
et  d' Engels,  la  place  sans  laquelle  aucun  systeme  social  ne 
saurait  toucher  Tame  fran^aise  ;  mais  il  ne  suffit  pas  de  coudre 
a  cette  ceuvre  quelques  phrases    sentimentale?  et  quelques 


*  ItkU'  gcncrale  de  la  Rcvohition^  CEuvres,  t.  x.,  p.  196. 
t  Thi^oric  notivclh;  Introduction.  J  Nottvellc  Gazette  du  Rh/n  (1850). 

§  Lc  nouvLiiti  parti  (188 i).    Le  Socialisme  integral,  t.  I.  et  ii.  (1890).    Precis  de 
Socialisme  (1892  ;  i"  volume  seul  paru). 


738  COSMOPOLIS. 

lambeaux  de  rhdtorique  idealiste  pour  r6ussir  a  concilier  la 
contrainte  collect iviste  avec  la  liberty  et  pour  prouver  que 
la  rdgle  de  repartition  du  socialisme  est  praticable  et  conforme 
a  la  justice. 

Nos  socialistes  se  flattent  d'affranchir  la  personne  humaine; 
c'est  pour  le  compte  de  la  libert6,  disent-ils,  qu'ils  font  appel 
a  la  contrainte ;  seulement,  ils  negligent  de  nous  dire 
comment  la  minutieuse  discipline  et  la  reglementation  fi 
outrance  de  la  soci6te  collectiviste  seraient  favorables  a  la 
volonte,  a  roriginalite  et  a  I'initiative  individuelle,  principal 
moteur  du  progrfes.*  "  Tantot  on  nous  reproche,  (c'est  le 
theme  le  plus  banal),  dit  M.  Jaurfes,  de  sacrifier  Tindividu  a  la 
communairt6;  tantot,  comme  recemment  devant  I'Universit^ 
de  Paris,  on  nous  reproche  de  lib6rer  a  outrance  et  de 
dechainer  I'individu  en  brisant  tous  les  cadres  traditionnels, 
toutes  les  hierarchies  qui  le  maintiennent/'t 

11  y  a  la  un  sophisme  :  oui,  on  vous  reproche,  d'une  part,  de 
briser  les  cadres  de  la  cite,  et  la  patrie  meme,  en  poussant 
I'individualisme  jusqu'a  ses  dernieres  limites  (car  les  extremes 
se  rejoignent) ;  et  Ton  vous  reproche  en  meme  temps,  d'autre 
part,  de  manquer  votre  but,  qui  est  Taff ranch issement  de 
I'individu,  parce  qu'il  y  a  une  antinomic  irr6ductible  entre 
la  solidarity  et  la  contrainte.  Les  deux  reproches  ne  sont 
point  contradictoires,  et  ils  sont  6galement  justes. 

Quoi  qu'il  en  soit,  les  forces  morales  sont  absentes  du 
socialisme  dit  "  scientifique,"  comme  elles  6taient  absentes 
de  reconomie  politique  utilitaire  a  laquelle  il  a  empruntd  ses 
principes  de  raisonnement.  Et  c'est  au  nom  des  memes 
principes,  en  vertu  des  m^mes  raisons,  c'est  au  nom  de  ce 
qu'il  y  a  de  plus  noble  et  de  plus  pur  dans  le  g^nie  de  la 
France,  que  nous  les  repoussons  Tune  et  I'autre.  Pour  nous, 
la  question  sociale  est  avant  tout  une  question  morale ;  il  y 
faut  la  g6n6rosit6,  ce  sentiment  unique  comme  le  mot  qui 
I'exprime,  et  qui  signifie  "capacit6  de  produire";  il  y  faut  la 
en ritas  generis  hnmanij  6clair6e  par  la  science. 

*  Ainsi,  dans  Ic  livre  recent  de  M.  Geor^jes  Renard,  professeiir  a  TUnivcrsitedi 
Lausanne,  Lc  Ri'j^inic  soiialistc  (Paris,  1898),  le  chapitre  ii  de  la  deuxieme  parlie. 
Fotidiom  csscnticUcs  dc  la  collectivity,  contrcdit  et  mine  le  chapitre  m  de  la 
premiere,  Liberies  ndcessaircs  dc  Vindividn. 

t  CosMOPOLis,  Janvier,  p.  133. 


LA   QUESTION   SOCIALE.  739 

Qui,  nous  entendons  rcnouer, — par-dessus  les  6conomisles 
de  TEcole  de  Manchester,  par-dessus  les  doctrinaires,  le« 
lib^raux  et  les  ^conomistes  de  la  Restauration,  de  la  monarchic 
de  Juillet  et  du  second  Empire,  par-dessus  les  socialistes 
allemands  et  leurs  disciples  frangais, — nous  entendons  renouer 
et  fortifier  la  noble  tradition  du  xviii"  sifecle,  et  faire  rendre  a 
la  Revolution  franpaise  toutes  ses  consequences  politique^, 
cconomiques  et  sociales. 

Pas  plus  qu'a  Torganisation  ix)litique, — Benjamin  Constant 
ne  disait-il  pas  que  "  la  propriety  seule  rend  les  hommes 
capables  de  I'exercice  des  droits  politiques  "  ?  *  —  les  id6es  de 
I'ancienne  Ecole  lib^rale  ne  sauraient  suffire  a  I'organisation 
cconomique  et  sociale  de  la  democratic  moderne.  11  s'agit  a 
present  de  concilier  la  liberte  avec  la  solidarity,  le  droit  indivi- 
duel  avec  le  devoir  social. 

Un  socialisme  d'Etat  qui  chargerait  les  pouvoirs  publics 
d'etre  actifs,  prevoyants,  moraux,  pour  le  compte  des  citoyens, 
une  telle  politique,  flottant  a  Taventure,  au  hasard  des  circon- 
stances,  ne  resoudrait  pas  le  problfeme.  Pour  le  resoudre,  il 
faut  une  rigoureuse  discipline  de  pensee,  une  forte  direction 
intellectuelle,  une  norme. 

Certes,  il  est  difficile  de  marquer  avec  une  absolue  rigueur 
les  bornes  de  intervention  de  TEtat,  et  de  fixer  ce  que  M. 
Fouiliee  appelle  "la  juste  limite."t  M.  Paul  Leroy-Beaulieu 
constate  qu'il  est  impossible  de  determiner  a  priori  la  sphere 
de  TEtat  et  celle  de  I'individu,  car,  dans  la  realite  vivante, 
"  elles  se  penfetrent "  et  "  elles  se  deplacent."  I 

Mais  ces  "deplacements"  doivent  etre  Teffet  d'une  conception 
reflechie,  plutot  que  des  circonstances ;  ils  doivent  etre  subor- 
donnes  a  une  loi,  regis  par  un  principe.  Ou  trouverons- 
nous  ce  principe  ? 

Mieux  encore  que  'M'organisme  ideal"  de  Krause§,  mieux 
que  " I'organisme  moral"  d'Ahrens  i,  mieux  mdme  peut-etre 

•  Princifcs  dc  Politique.  CEuvres,  t.  i.,  p.  54. 

t  Science  soci/ilc  coniemporaiuc^  p.  370. 

X  L*Ettit  modcrnc  et  ses  fonctious. 

§  Foiuiement  tin  droit  untiircl  on  Esqiiissc  philosophiqnc  dc  ridr'nl  dit  droit 
(lena,  1803) ; — Esquissc  du  Systeufr  dc  In  fhilosopttic  du  droit  ou  Droit  unturcl 
(Goettinjjuc,  1828). 

II  Cours  dc  Droit  mdurcl. 

VOL.  IX.— VO.  XXVII.  \) 


740  COSMOPOLIS. 

que  'M'organisme  contractuel"  et  la  "justice  reparative''  de 
M.  Fouill6e  *,  les  p6n6trantes  analyses  d'un  autre  maitre  de  la 
pens6e  fran^aise  contemporaine,  M.  Renouviert,  ont  paru 
pr6ciser  les  caractferes  et  les  besoins  de  "  I'idte  sociale,"  et,  en 
6vitant  les  principales  objections  dirig^es  contre  le  socialisme 
d'Etat,  determiner  tout  k  la  fois  le  fondement  logique  de 
rintervention  de  I'Etat  et  ses  limites.  C'est  en  revenant  hardi- 
ment  a  Tidde  du  droit  naturel,  que  Tauteur  de  la  Science  de  la 
Morale  y  a  trouv6,  en  m6me  temps  que  la  justification  de 
rintervention  de  TEtat  dans  un  assez  grand  nombre  de  cas, 
la  limite  precise  oil  elle  doit  cesser.  J  Elle  est  justifi^e  partout 
ou  elle  assure  I'exercice  de  leurs  droits  k  ceux  qui  n'en  joui- 
raient  pas  sans  elle ;  elle  est  ill^gitime  si  elle  porte  atteinte  a 
Tun  de  ces  droits.  Enfin,  pareil  au  tuteur  pour  la  plante, 
I'Etat  doit  apprendre  au  citoyen  a  se  passer  de  lui ;  on  sait  le 
mot  du  noble  pr6cepteur  a  son  royal  616ve  :  "  J'ai  travaill^  a 
me  rendre  inutile." 

Ainsi  rintervention  de  TEtat,  qui  n'apparait  a  un  grand 
nombre  d'esprits  que  comme  un  exp^ient,  est  d^finie  par 
une  loi  morale.  Ainsi  I'individu  et  I'Etat,  au  lieu  d'etre  opposes 
arbitrairement  Tun  a  Tautre  comme  les  termes  d'une  antith^, 
se  lient  au  contraire  et  se  fondent  comme  les  elements  d'une 
synthase.  Ainsi  se  trouve  compl6t6e  et  affermie  la  noble 
conception  du  xviii*  sitele  et  de  la  Revolution.  Ainsi  est 
nettement  d^finie  la  loi  souveraine  des  democraties  modemes, 
la  loi  de  la  solidarity. 

Telle  est  Tidte  qui  a  inspire  notre  propaganda  dans  le 
Parlement  et  dans  le  pays.  Cette  idee  a  toujours  ete  la  notre. 
C'est  par  inadvertance  que  certaines  personnes  ont  cru  voir, 
en  1896,  un  changement  d'attitude  de  notre  part  sur  ces  ma- 
lieres.  Dfes  que  la  question  sociale,  —  qui  n'avait  pas  et6 
agitee  dans  les  Assembiees  fran^aises  depuis  les  memorables 
debats  de  1848  sur  le  droit  au  travail  et  depuis  Tinterpellation 
de  1884  sur  la  politique  economique  du  Cabinet  Ferry,  — 
des    que    la    question   sociale,    en    1892,    se    reveilla    avec 

•  L'ldtk-  modcntc  du  Dro/7  (1878).  La  Science  sociale  cotttemporaitie  {i^^l 
La  Pi'opri^U  sociale  ct  la  IHmocratie  (1884). — M.  Leon  Bourgeois  s'est  inspire  des 
idees  dc  M.  Fouilltc  dans  Solidaritc  (1896). 

t  La  Science  de  la  Morale  (1869).     Critique  philosophiquc  (1872/89). 

♦  Voir  Hcnr>'  Michel  :  flddc  de  VEtat,  v, 


LA   QUESTION   SOCIALE.  74 1 

la  premifere  grfeve  de  Carmaux  et  Tavfenement  du  parti 
socialiste  a  la  Chambre,  nous  portames  aussitot  a  la  tribune 
les  principes  de  conduite  qui  ne  devaient  pas  cesser  de 
nous  guider  d6sormais  :  resistance  6nergique  a  rill6galit6  et  a 
la  violence  ;  lutte  contre  le  socialisme  r6volutionnaire  ;  refu- 
tation du  collectivisme  ;  d6veloppement  de  plus  en  plus  large 
du  principe  d'association,  de  cooperation  et  de  mutuality ; 
collaboration  judicieuse,  raisonn^e  du  legislateur  avec  les  asso- 
ciations et  les  citoyenS;  en  vue  du  bien-6tre,  de  la  moralite,  de 
la  dignite  de  la  personne  humaine.  Et  aussi,  dfes  cette  epoque, 
nous  rompions  nettement  avec  ce  qu'on  a  appeie  Teconomie 
politique  "orthodoxe,"  qui,  comme  on  vient  de  le  voir, 
serait  plus  justement  nomm6e  r^conomie  politique  "  h6t6ro- 
doxe,"  puisqu'elle  s'est  6cart6e  sensiblement  de  la  doctrine  des 
maitres,  Adam  Smith  en  Angleterre  et  J.  B.  Say  en  France. 

En  m6me  temps  que  nous  rompions  avec  cette  Ecole,  nous 
adjurions  les  chefs  du  parti  radical  de  rompre,  de  leur  cot^, 
avec  le  socialisme  r6volutionnaire.  lis  ne  I'ont  point  fait;  ils 
ont  pr6f6r6  persister  dans  cette  contradiction  qui  consiste  a 
s'allier  aux  collectivistes  en  fait,  tout  en  r6pudiant  le  collec- 
tivisme en  paroles  :  I'avenir  montrera  qui,  d'eux  ou  de  nous, 
avait  raison. 

J'ose  dire  que  cette  propagande  n'a  pas  6t6  inutile.  —  "A 
quoi  bon  combattre  le  collectivisme  ?  " — nous  disent  certains 
politiques  Equivoques  qui  le  m^nagent  par  calcul  Electoral, 
— "il  n'est  pas  dangereux  ;  en  le  combattant,  vous  lui  donnez 
de  la  force  1 " 

Nous  estimons,  nous,  au  contraire,  que  le  pEril  vient  de 
rignorance ;  que,  si  le  socialisme  pouvait  etre  exploits  quelque 
jour,  une  fois  encore,  contre  la  cause  du  progrEs,  de  la  d6mo- 
cratie  et  de  la  liberty,  c'est  parce  qu'il  ne  serait  pas  assez 
connu  :  il  faut  montrer  ce  qu'il  est ;  il  faut,  non  le  diffamer  ni 
le  hair,  ce  qui  est  puEril,  mais  I'Etudier  loyalement.  Etudier  le 
collectivisme,  a  dit  Schaeffle,  est  "une  des  taches  les  plus 
grandes  et  les  plus  conservatrices  ;  il  n'y  en  a  pas  de  plus 
decisive  pour  les  destinies  de  I'humanitE."  * 

Les  dEbats  parlementaires  auxquels  nous  avons  6t6  mfilEs 
depuis  plusieurs  annEes,  et  qui  ont  Et6  comme  autant  d'Epi- 

*  ^Quintessence  du  socialisme, 


742  COSMOPOLIS. 

sodes  de  la  grande  bataille  d'id6es  de  notre  temps,  ces  dibats 
que  des  observateurs  impartiaux  appelaient  des  "  d^bats  aca- 
d6miques,"  et  qui,  en  r6alit6,  ont  6t6  les  d^bats  vitaux  de  cette 
legislature,  car  ils  touchaient  non  seulement  a  la  constitution 
politique,  mais  a  la  constitution  sociale  de  la  France,  aux 
fondements  du  droit  public  moderne  et  a  I'avenir  m^me  de  la 
civilisation,  ces  debats  ont  mis  en  pleine  lumi^e  et  au*dessus 
de  toute  controverse  plusieurs  points  capitaux  : 

I''  Le  regime  socialiste  change  le  droit  actuel  de  propri^tc 
en  droit  de  possession  pr6caire  on  d'usufruit : 

La  nation,  a  dit  M.  Jaiirds,  devient  proprietairc  de  tons  les  capitaux. 
mines,  usines,  terrcs,  maisons.  Elle  les  delegiic,  sous  des  conditions 
determinees,  a  des  individus  ou  a  des  groupes  d'individus,  c*cst-a-dirc  que 
le  droit  de  proprietc^  souveraine  que  le  collectivisme  veut  attribuer  a  la 
nation  n'exclut  en  aucune  manidre  la  propri6t6  des  indi\ndus  ou  des 
associations  particulieres.  II  n'a  d'autre  effet  que  de  donner  a  la  nation 
le  droit  d'inter\'enir  dans  la  constitution  et  I'exercice  de  la  propriete 
individuelle.** 

Ni  la  propriete  individuelle,  ni  la  propriete  collective  meme,  ne  sauraient 
se  justifier,  a  dit  M.  Jules  Guesde.  La  collectivity,  ou  la  somme  des 
individus  coexistants,  a  plus  forte  raison  lindividu,  ne  saurait  ^tre  qu'usu- 
fruitier.  Elle  n'a  droit  qu'Si  la  jouissance,  a  I'usage  des  choses  ;  et  encore 
cet  usage,  cette  jouissance,  sont-ils  limites  et  conditionnds...  Meme  rcdnite 
au  produit  net  du  travail  individuel,  la  propriete  individuelle  ne  saurait  etre 
maintenue...t 

i""  Le  regime  socialiste  supprime  Tint^r^t  des  capitaux  :  on 
ne  pent  plus  louer  ;  le  loyer,  le  fermage,  le  dividende  sont 
supprim^s. 

3°  Le  regime  socialiste^supprime  Tdchange  ;  on  ne  peut  plus 
vendre. 

4°  Le  r6gime  socialiste  maintient  le  salariat.| 

Voici,  en  effet,  un  extrait  de  la  stance  de  la  Chambre  du  13 
novembre  1897  : 

M.  Meline,  President  du  Conseil. — J'arrivc  a  une  autre  consequence  de 
votre  systeme.  Aujourd'hui  le  petit  proprietairc  a  le  droit  de  vendre  a 
n'importe  qui.  AUez-vous  respecter  ce  droit  ?  Lui  permettrez-vous  de 
vendre  ?... 

Silence  profond  !  {Rires  au  centre,) 

A  Vexiremc  gauche. — Quand  nous  interrompons,  on  nous  rappelle  i 
I'ordre  ! 

•  Ddp/clte  de  Toulouse. — Cite  a  la  Chambre  des  d^put^s,  10  juillet  1897. 
t  Essai  lie  CaUchistuc  Socialiste, — Cite  a  la  Chambre  des  deputes,  10  juillet  1807. 
I  Cf.,  sur  CO  point,  Jaurcs  sur  les  ''ouvriers  communaux"  aj^ricoles.  Cite  a  la 
Chambre  le  10  juillet  1897, 


LA   QUESTION    SOCIALE.  743 

M.  Jules  Gucsde. — Mais  nous  ne  sommes  pas  dans  la  society  coUectiviste 
en  ce  moment ! 

M.  le  President  du  Conseil. — Ceia  vaudrait  cepeudant  la  peine  d'etre  dit. 

11  me  semble  que  vous  devez  bien  savoir  dans  quelle  mesure  votre 
doctrine  est  applicable  et  k  qui  vous  I'appliquerez.  Eh  bien  !  je  vous  le 
deniande  formellement :  permettrez-vous  au  petit  propri^taire  de  vend  re 
sa  terre  ? 

M.  Gabriel  Deville. — Je  suis  tout  dispose  k  repondre. 

Je  dirai  que  la  solution,  pour  cette  question  de  m6mc  que  pour  toutcs 
les  autres,  ddpendra  de  la  volonte  du  pays,  exprim6e  par  cxemple  par  des 
mandataires,  comme  aujourd'hui ;  mais,  si  vous  voulez  mon  opinion 
personnelle,  je  repondrai  qu'il  n'aura  pas  le  droit  de  la  vendre.  {Exclama- 
iioits  et  applaudissemenia  ironiques  au  centre.) 

A  mon  avis,  —  et  je  sui  j  seul  responsable  de  mon  opinion,  — il  n'aura  pas 
le  droit  de  vendre,  parcc  quil  n'y  aura  pas  possibilite  de  vente,  parce  qu'il 
n'y  aura  pas  lieu  k  vente  ;  niais  il  ne  saurait  y  avoir  aucun  inconvenient,  ni 
th^rique,  ni  pratique,  taut  que  les  faits  n'auront  pas  dans  leur  ensemble 
justifie  nos  previsions,  a  ce  qu'il  y  ait,  avec  certaines  garanties,  emploi  par 
le  petit  propretaire  de  salaries.    {Mouvements  divers.) 

M.  le  President  du  Conseil. — Je  me  fdicite  vraiment  de  la  question  que 
j'ai  pos^e,  car  elle  nous  vaut  un  peu  de  lumi^re  sur  un  point  essentiel. 
L'aveu  a  ete  difficile  a  obtenir,  mais  il  est  tres  precieux. 

L'honorable  M.  Deville  nous  declare  qu'en  ce  qui  le  concerne  il  considere 
que  le  petit  propri6taire  n'aura  pas  le  droit  de  vendre,  et  il  a  raison  au 
point  de  vue  de  la  pure  logique  coUectiviste. 

M.  Babaud-Lacroze. — Ce  sera  bon  a  faire  savoir  et  cela  fera  bon  effet. 

M.  le  President  du  Conseil. — Ce  qui  m'etonne  beaucoup,  c'est  que,  dans 
la  seconde  par  tie  de  ses  obser\'ations,  M.  Deville  admette  que  le  petit 
proprietaire  pourra  employer  des  salaries.  Je  ne  vois  plus  alors  sur  quelles 
bases  serieuses  repose  votre  doctrine  du  collectivisme,  car  elle  n'a  plus  de 
principes. 

Comment !  vous  venez  dire  :  Le  grand  proprietaire  devient  capitaliste 
parce  qu'il  emploie  des  salaries.  C'est  tout  votre  argument  contre  lui,  et 
vous  reconnaissez  a  I'Etat  le  droit  de  I'exproprier  parce  qu'il  emploie  des 
ouvriers.  Et  apres  avoir  fait  cela  vous  venez  maintenant  dire  au  petit 
proprietaire  :  "  Si  tu  cmploies  les  mdmes  ouvriers,  si  tu  maintiens,  comme 
vient  de  le  dire  M.  Guesde,  le  salariat  a  perp^tuite,  tu  ne  seras  pas,  toi, 
exproprie,  et  je  te  conserve  ta  propriete." 

En  verite,  une  doctrine  qui  repose  sur  de  parcilles  contradictions, 
pcrmettez-moi  de  Ic  dire,  est  la  doctrine  de  I'cquivoque  la  plus  audacieuse! 
iym    appiaudisscments  au  centre  el  sur  divers  bancs  a  gauche  et  a  droite.) 

Du  reste  vous  pouvez  retirer  sans  inconvenient  au  petit  proprietaire  le 
droit  de  vendre,  cardans  votre  syst^me  ce  droit  ne  lui  aurait  servi  a  rien, 
attend u  qu'il  ne  trouverait  pas  d'acheteur.    {On  rit.) 

Comment  voulez-vous  en  effet  que  le  petit  proprietaire  trouve  un 
acheteur  ?  Celui  qui  a  de  I'argent  ne  sera  pas  assez  nai'f  pour  acheter  une 
propriety  qui  n'est  plus  qu'un  simple  usufruit.  Car  la  propriety  ainsi 
transformee  n'est  plus  une  propriety,  elle  ne  constitue  plus  qu'un  usufruit, 
et  vous  ne  trouverez  pas  d'acquereur,  j'imagine,  qui  consente  a  payer 
I'usufruit  au  prix  de  la  propriete, 

II  y  a  d'ailleurs  une  autre  raison.  Comment  le  petit  proprietaire 
pourrait-il  parvenir  k  vendre  sa  terre  quand,  a  cdte  de  lui,  I'Etat  donne 


744  COSMOPOLIS. 

des  terres  pour  rien  ?  Celui  qui  serait  tente  de  trailer  avec  lui  aimera  bien 
mieux  aller  vous  trouver  et  vous  dire  :  *•  Je  n'ai  pas  d'argent  pour  acheter 
une  terrc,  mais  vous  en  donnez  u  tout  le  monde  ;  jc  viens  reclanier 
ma  part." 

Votrc  pretention  de  menager  les  interets  du  petit  proprietaire  est  done 
unc  pure  derision,  meme  pendant  la  periode  de  transition  que  vous  lui 
rcbcrvcz.  Vous  le  depouillez  de  tons  ses  droits  essentiels  ;  vous  ne  lu> 
laissez  qu'un  simple  usufruit,  I'ombre  d'une  propriety.  (Apf*laudisscmcnis.) 
Vous  aurez  detruit  dans  son  essence  la  petite  propridte  ;  il  ne  rcstcra  plus 
debout  que  la  propriete  collective. 

C'est  bien  I'l,  on  Ta  vu,  la  pure  doctrine  socialiste  :  l'6change 
n'existera  plus,  parce  qu'il  n'y  aura  plus  possibility  d'6change. 
Etait-il  done  superflu  que  ces  conceptions  retrogrades  fussent 
port6es  devant  le  suffrage  universel,  au  grand  jour  de  la  tribune  ? 

Dans  un  pays  come  le  notre,  qui  compte  huit  millions 
et  demi  de  propri^taires  de  terres  et  autant  de  propri6- 
taires  de  valeurs  mobiliferes,  le  socialisme  peut  etre  encore 
d^sormais  une  formule  de  m^contentement,  de  colore  ;  il  ne 
saurait  plus  etre,  pour  quiconque  raisonne,  mdme  une  formule 
d'esp6rance.* 

Le  socialisme  est  une  protestation  violente  contre  les  maux 
existants ;  mais,  comme  essai  de  reconstruction  sociale,  il  est 
jug6.  Marx  est  aussi  vieilli,  aussi  caduc  que  les  ^conomistes 
dont  il  a  pris  pour  bonnes  les  observations  tres  douteuses. 
Si  6paisse  que  soit  son  armure,  elle  est  perc6e  a  jour  ;  de 
toutes  parts  on  en  voit  les  trous.  Ce  que  ses  disciples  doivent 
encore  de  mieux  a  ce  grand  logicien  nourri  de  Hegel,  c'est, 
sa  subtile  dialectique.  Mais,  vraiment,  ils  en  abusent ;  et 
dans  un  pays  a  Tesprit  clair,  leur  casuistique  pourrait  bien 
achever  de  les  perdre.  Les  arguties  au  moyen  desquelles 
ils  essayent  de  faire  croire,  par  exemple,  que  la  propri6te 
individuelle  serait  maintenue  et  gen6ralis6e,  tandis  que,  en 
r^alit6,  elle  ne  serait  plus  qu'une  possession  revocable  ;  le  mal 
qu'ils  se  donnent  pour  essayer  de  voiler  sous  une  logomachie 
captieuse  la  brutality  de  leurs  solutions  et  pour  donner  une 
apparence  scientiiique  a  un  empirisme  grossier,  tout  cet  attirail 
sophistique  n'est  point  assurement  pour  sauver  la  doctrine. 

Ce  qui  prouve,  du  reste,  que,  malgr6  leurs  proph6ties,t  ils 

*  Benoit  Malon  :  **  Le  collcctivismc  n'est  qu*une  esperance.*'  Precis  de 
SocialismCf  1. 1.,  p.  225. 

t  "  Nous  pouvons  prevoir  le  triomplie  du  socialisme  en  France  dans  une  dizainc 
d'annees."    (Jaures,  Cosmopolis,  Janvier  1896,  p.  131.) 


LA  QUESTION  SOCIALE.  74^; 

sentent  leurs  principes  s'6mousser  par  la  controverse,  c'est  qu'ils 
font  d'6tranges  concessions  pour  augmenter  leur  clientele. 
N'avons-nous  pas  vu,  dans  la  dernifere  discussion  du  budget,  M. 
Vaillant  venir  demander  une  augmentation  de  credit  en  faveur 
des  soci6t6s  cooperatives  de  production  ?  Or,  la  cooperation 
est  le  contre-pied  du  collectivisme,  })uisqu'elle  implique  la 
concurrence  et  I'^change.  II  est  impossible,  sans  une  contradic- 
tion flagrante,  de  soutenir  a  la  fois  le  principe  coUectiviste  et  le 
principe  coop6ratif.  Et  Ton  voit  par  la  ce  que  vaut  cette 
affirmation  de  M.  Jaur^s :  "  II  serait  ais6  de  d6montrer,  par 
riiistoire  du  parti  socialiste  fran9ais  depuis  quelques  ann^es, 
que  Taction  politique,  bien  loin  d'aboutir  a  une  diminution  de 
la  pens^e  socialiste,  a  conduit  la  classe  ouvriere,  ses  militants 
et  ses  eius,  a  des  conceptions  tou jours  plus  rigoureuses,  a  des 
affirmations  toujours  plus  nettes."*  La  v6rit6  est  que  le  parti 
socialiste  fran9ais  essaye  de  regagner  dans  le  domaine  des  faits 
ce  qu'il  perd'dans  le  domaine  des  id6es  ;  et  c'est  pour  cela  que, 
tout  en  contestant  Tefficacite  de  la  coop6rationt,  il  tache  dc 
mettre  la  main  sur  le  mouvement  coop6ratif. 

De  la  aussi  la  creation  de  la  verrerie  d'Albi.  Ici  encore,  il  y 
a  contradiction,  inconsequence  :  car  cette  verrerie  est  une 
entreprise  sni  generiSy  dont  le  succfes  ou  Techec  ne  prouvera 
absolument  rien  pour  ou  contre  le  collectivisme. 

Pour  nous,  nous  continuerons  d'6clairer  ainsi  les  contra- 
dictions et  les  sophismes,  et  de  propager  ardemment  la  notion 
refiechie  de  la  solidarite  et  de  la  justice. 

Ceux-la  ont  une  vue  singuliferement  courte,  qui  s'imaginent 
que  Torganisation  actuelle  du  travail  est  immuable ;  que  le 
salaire  sera  eternellement  6x6  tel  qu'il  Test  aujourd'hui  ;  que 
les  rapports  entre  le  capital  et  le  travail  ob6iront  toujours  aux 
mdmes  lois.  Sans  parler  des  revolutions  de  la  science,  impossibles 
a  prevoir,  (sait-on  les  surprises  que  nous  reserve,  par  exemple, 
reiectricite  ?)  est-ce  que  Torganisation   du    travail  vers  1950 

*  CosMOPOLis,  Janvier  1898,  p.  126. 

t  Jaurfes,  CosMOPOLis  : — "  A  Paris,  dans  une  reunion  recente,  j'cntendais  dire 
par  un  delcgue  des  cooperatives,  aux  applaudisscments  des  autres  dclcgues :  A 
Paris,  il  y  a  (h's  coopcni fives ;  il  ;/'v  tt  fiis  dc  coopcratcurs.  Eh  bieii,  nous  disons, 
nous,  que  celui-la  nc  parlait  certaincinent  pas  au  nomdcs  milliers  de  a  »opc*ratcurs 
qui  <nit  donne  et  qui  continuent  de  doniier  chaquc  jour  Tcxcinple  d'un  courage, 
d'une  vertu  et  d'une  foi  indomitables. 


74<>  COSMOPOLIS. 

nc  sera  pas  aussi  diff^rente  de  celle  d'a  present,  que  celle  d'a 
present  peut  I'dtre  de  Torganisation  du  travail  vers  le  milieu 
du  XIX'  si^cle  ?  Si,  depuis  cinquante  ans,  les  d^penses  de 
guerre  avaient  ^t^  employees  en  ameliorations  sociales,  le 
probleme  serait  bien  pres  d'etre  r6solu  ;  mais  la  science,  en 
revolutionnant  Tindustrie,  a  engendr^  les  grandes  agglomera- 
tions de  peuples  et  revolutionn6  aussi  Tarmement;  des  pro- 
blames  contradictoires  ont  6t6  pos6s  du  meme  coup,  et  nous 
nous  trouvons  en  presence  d'antinomies  qui  jamais  n'avaient 
cl6  pouss6es  a  un  tel  paroxysme.  Cependant,  un  nouveau  monde 
cclot  d6ja  sous  nos  yeux.  Le  principe  d'association,  apres 
des  latonnements  d'un  demi-sifecle,  s'organise  enfin  de  toutes 
parts.  "  Les  ouvriers,  suivant  le  mot  de  Littr6,  prendront  de 
plus  en  plus  la  direction  de  leurs  propres  destinies."  La  vie  de 
I'atelier  ira  toujours  s'61evant,  et  Ton  peut  dire  se  spiritualisant. 
De  cette  transformation  il  est  ais£  de  marquer  dte  aujour- 
d'hui  le  caract^re,  les  conditions,  les  moyens.  Nous  I'avons  fait 
ailleurs.*  Nous  le  ferons  encore.  Conduits  par  I'idde  plus  que 
nationale,  vraiment  humaine,  qui  a  toujours  fait  la  force  de  la 
France,  Tid^e  de  la  justice,  nous  travaillerons  a  ^ifier  cette 
K^publique  ^conomique  dont  les  fortes  assises  sortent  de  terre 
sous  nos  yeux,  cette  R^publique  du  travail,  cette  Cit6  nouvelle 
d^ja  vivante  dans  nos  consciences. 

Paul  Deschanel. 


*   I)i>o»uis  tic  CaniMux,  J/  tlcecinbic  i{m/). 


J.   A.   D.    INGRES. 


LES  CAHIKRS   DE   MOXTAUBAX. 


Le  Musee  de  Montauban  est  form^  de  deux  parties  bien 
distinctes :  Tune  comprend  le  fonds  Mortarieu  et  les  dons  de 
I'Etat  et  des  particuliers  qui  sont  venus  s'y  ajouter  depuis 
1843,  date  de  Touverture  du  mus6e ;  I'autre  est  tout  entifere 
consacr^e  a  Toeuvre  de  J.  A.  D.  Ingres,  le  fils  glorieux  de  la 
vieille  cit6  protestante. 

A  part  quelques  oeuvres,  le  fonds  Mortarieu  et  la  grande 
salle  qui  le  complete  ne  pr^sentent  qu'un  int^rgt  relatif  :  les 
toiles,  mal  dispos^es  et  classes  sans  ordre  ni  m6thode,  y  re- 
goivent  un  jour  douteux  et  les  conservateurs  qui  se  sont 
succ^d^  au  Mus^e  de  Montauban  ne  semblent  pas  avoir  pris 
grand  souci  de  la  valeur  d'enseignement  qui  pouvait  y  etre 
attach^e. 

Le  Mus^e  Ingres  proprement  dit  est  Tun  des  plus  riches  de 
France.  Dfes  1851,  Ingres  dotait  sa  ville  natale  de  cinquante* 
quatre  toiles  et  vingt-quatre  vases  grecs  ou  6trusques  et  d'un 
certain  nombre  de  livres  et  figures  tires  de  son  cabinet.  La 
lettre  d'envoi  *  disait  :  **...I1  m'est  doux  de  penser  qu'apres 
moi  j'aurai  comme  un  dernier  pied-a-terre  dans  ma  belle 
patrie,  comme  si  je  pouvais  un  jour  revenir  en  esprit  au  milieu 
dc  ces  chers  objets  d'art,  tous  ranges  la,  comme  ils  etaient 
die/  moi,  et  semblant  toujours  ni'attendrc  ;  eiifin  je  suis  lieu- 
leux  dc  penser  que  je  serai  toujours  a  Montauban,  et  que  la, 
oil  par  circonstance  je  n'ai  pu  vivre,  je  revivrai  6ternellement 
dans  le  g6n6reux  et  touchant  souvenir  de  mes  compatriotes..." 

En  eflfet,  a  sa  mort,  qui  survint  en  1867,  la  ville  de  Montau- 
ban entra  en  possession  de  I'atelier  de  Ingres,  je  veux  dire  de 
ses   cartons   qui   sont   pour   le  curieux  et  pour  le  critique  le 

^  Catalogue  du  Musee  dc  Montauban  (Peinture)  1885. 


748  COSMOPOLIS. 

document  humain  le  plus  pr6cieux  et  d'une  importance  capi- 
tale.  Prfes  de  5,000  dessins  originaux,  dont  1,800  environ  ont 
pris  place  sur  les  murs,  forment  cette  seconde  partie  du  Musee 
de  Montauban,  ou  plus  justement  Mus6e  Ingres.* 

Les  dessins  de  Ingres  sont-ils  conserves  avec  le  soin  pieux 
qu'il  conviendrait  ?  Leur  exposition  est-elle  entour6e  de  toutes 
les  garanties  desirables  ?  L'examen  attentif  d'un  certain 
nombre  de  pieces  indique  malheureusement  qu'il  n'en  est 
rien  :  plusieurs  dessins  sont  absolument  perdus,  et  beaucoup 
de  ceux  que  Thumidit^  n'a  pas  encore  atteints  se  prisentent 
avec  des  piqures  de  vers  qui  font  pr6sager  une  destruction 
prochaine.  Si  la  Ville  de  Montauban  n'y  prend  garde,  elle 
aura  avant  qu'il  soit  longtemps  a  r6pondre  devant  Topinion  de 
la  negligence  la  plus  coupable. 

En  meme  temps  que  les  cartons  de  Ingres,  le  Mus^e  de 
Montauban  recevait  un  legs  ^galement  pr^cieux  :  les  Cahiers 
ou  I'artiste  notait  au  jour  le  jour  ses  impressions  de  toute 
nature  sur  une  oeuvre,  sur  un  livre  ou  sur  un  homme.  + 

Ces  Cahiers,  au  nombre  de  neuf,  tous  de  meme  dimension, 
ne  pr6sentent  pas  le  m^me  int6ret,  ainsi  qu'on  en  peut  juger 
par  les  indications  que  Ingres  avait  trac6es  sur  les  pages  de 
garde.     Nous  copious  textuellement  : 

Cahier  I  (ill  pages).  —  "  Philostrate  (sujets  anciens).  Les 
Tableaux  de  Philostrate.  Sujets  de  Peinture  ancienne  et 
autres  sujets  des  temps  anciens." 

Cahier  II  (84  pages).  —  "  Sujets  des  Tragedies  grecques.  Le 
Theatre  grec  d'Eschyle,  Sophocle  et  Euripide,  avec  des  extraits 
tirfe  de  leurs  Tragedies  et  les  Sujets  de  Peinture  qu'oflfre 
chaque  Trag6die.  Traduction  du  R.  P.  Brunoy." 

Cahier  III  (64  pages).  —  "  Pline  et  la  Gr^ce.  Extraits  de 
Pline  sur  TArt.  Supplement  sur  la  Grfece  et  leurs  (?)  grands 
artistes." 

*  L'inventaire  de  ce  Musee  a  ete  contie  a  M.  Jules  Momuieja,  correspondanl 
du  minist^re  des  Beaux- Arts.  II  paraitra  dans  Vltweniaire  gtn&ral  iUs  Richesses 
d'Art  de  la  France  et  on  ne  peut  que  souhaiter  que  cette  publication  soit  trd 

prochaine. 

t  M.  le  comte  Delaborde  qui  a  ecrit  sur  Ingres  un  livre  definitif,  connaissait 
ces  Cahiers  et  il  en  a  tire  parti.    Charles  Blanc  les  avait  eus  entre  les  mains  . 
Plus  recemuicnt,  M.  Leopold  Mabilleau  Ics  parcourait  et  en  faisait  une  etude 
critique  ;  et  entiii  en  dernier  lieu  M.  Jules  Mommeja  les  presentait  k  la  Reunion 
des  societes  des  beaux-arts  des  d^partements. 


J.  A.  D.  INGRES.  749 

Cahier  IV  (95   pages).  —  "  Dieux  et   H6ros  grecs.     Leurs 
Moeurs  et  Coutumes.     Physionomie  et  Notes  sur  les  Dieux. 
Les  H6ros  et  les  Grecs." 
Cahier  V  (141  pages).  —  "  Homfere.     L'Odysste." 
Cahier  VI  (iii  pages).  —  "  Homere.     L'lliade." 
Cahier  VII  (43  pages).  —  "  Raphael  et  autres  Artistes." 
Cahier  VIII  (25  pages).  —  "  Manuscrit  italien." 
Cahier  IX  (146  pages).  —  '*  Recueil.    Siijets  modernes." 
Le  Cahier  IX  et  dernier  est,  a  peu  de  choses  prfes,  le  seul 
qui  pr^ente  un  r6el  int6r6t.     C'^tait  visiblement  a  celui-ci  que 
Ingres  confiait  le  plus  volontiers  ses  impressions:  la  forme, 
I'teriture,  la  vari6t6  meme  des  encres,  tout  cela  indique  a  mer- 
veille  que  ce  Cahier  fut  pendant  de  longues  ann^es  le  confi- 
dent de  I'artiste.     Lui-mdme  y  attachait  d'ailleurs  une  certaine 
importance.   II  en  avait  r6dig6  le  titre,  ou  les  titres,  qui  6taient, 
sur  la  couverture  d'abord  : 

Recueilj  Sujets  et  Documents  moderties. 
Et  ensuite  sur  la  premiere  page  : 

Mes  Souvenirs  historiques  des  arts,  de  leur  morality,  de 
leurs  notions  artistiques  et  pittof  esques. 
Moi,  J.  A.  D.  Ingres. 
A  la  page  de  garde  il  avait  6crit  cette  d6dicace  : 

A  Madame  Delp^^f^  Ingres. 
On  a  reproch6  a  ce  propos  a  Ingres  son  manque  d'id^es 
gen6rales  et  jusqu'a  son  orthographe  qui  6tait,  en  effet, 
fort  mauvaise.  C'est  croyons-nous,  se  montrer  injuste,  et  les 
conclusions  qu'on  en  a  voulu  tirer  nous  paraissent  tomber  a 
faux.  De  ce  que  Ingres  ne  sut  pas  toujours  ^crire  les  noms 
propres  de  I'histoire  ou  de  la  litt^ratiu*e  grecque  et  de  ce  qu'il 
ne  pouvait  pas  lire  Homfere  dans  le  texte,  il  ne  s'ensuit  pas 
qu'il  n'ait  admirablement  compris  et  interpr6t6  une  6poque 
dont  la  civilisation  6tait  loin  de  lui  dtre  ferm^e.  II  est  vrai  que 
r^ducation  rudimentaire  que  lui  avait  fait  donner  son  p^re,  le 
bon  ouvrier  ornemaniste  montalbanais,  obligea  Ingres  a  plus 
d'efforts  personnels,  mais  sa  belle  intelligence  lui  permettait 
de  comprendre  tres  vite  et  de  voir  trte  clair. 

On  jugera  sans  peine  par  les  extraits  du  Cahier  IX  que  nous 
allons  publier,  de  I'int^r^t  qui  s'attache  aux  r6fIexions  de 
Ingres.    On  n'y  trouvera  de  mtehancet^s  inutiles  sur  per- 


750  COSMOPOLIS. 

sonncy  mais  a  chaque  ligne  I'aflirination  absolue  de  la  Beaute 
a  i'originc  de  ia  vie,  dans  toutes  ses  manifestations.  11  Taime  a 
ce  point,  la  Beauts,  que  toutes  les  fois  qu'il  la  rencontre  il  r^ve 
de  la  fixer  sur  la  toile  en  une  oeuvre  definitive  :  Beauts  phy- 
sique ou  Beauty  morale,  ces  Cahiers  resplendissent  de  i'une  et 
de  Tautre,  et  tous  les  projets  de  tableau  — au  nombre  de  plu- 
sieurs  centaines  —  qu'on  y  trouve,  sont  nes  de  ce  principe 
immuable  chez  Ingres  que  la  Beaut6  doit  ^tre  servie  a  genoux. 
L'homme  qui  Taima  a  un  tel  degr^  n'^tait  pas  un  homme 
ordinaire,  et  apr^s  Tavoir  lu  on  jugera  a  coup  sur  qu'il  m^te 
le  titre  de  grand  artiste  qu'on  a  voulu  lui  contester,  et  celui, 
plus  digne  de  lui  encore,  de  cr&iteur. 

Henry  Lapauze. 


EXTRAITS  DU  CAHIER  IX 


Le  ciel  semble  jaloux  de  la  terre,  lorsqu'il  lui  ravit   Raphael 
et  Mozart,  pour  en  orner  trop  tot  les  cieux. 

Sujct :  !^aisiance  de  RaphaeL  —  L^s  Graces  descendent  du 
ciel  et  environnent  Tenfant'divin. 

Sujet :    Le  jeune   Raphael    prend   cong6  de   la    Duchessc 

d'LJrbino,  sa  protectrice,  qui  lui  remet  une  lettre  de  recom- 

mandation  pour  le  P6rugin.     II  est  accompagn^  de  son  pere. 

Le  Due,  present,  lit  une  lettre  que  lui  remet  un  page,  —  ou 

bien  il  s'arme  pour  une  escarmouche. 

Snjci :  Le  Piirugin  re^oit  le  jeune  Raphael  pour  disciple, 
sv)ii  pere  clant  li. 

Sujet :  Raphael  peignant  sur  le  tableau  du  P6rugin  ;  celui- 
ci  le  considfere  avec  int^r^t  et  admiration. 

Sxijets :  L6on  X  et  Raphael  dans  les  Loges,  accuinpagn6> 
de  Bramante  il  Bembo.  Le  Pape  lui  promet  le  chapeau  de 
cardinal.  Raphael  a  la  Farn^sine  avec  la  Pornarina.  Le  car- 
dinal de  Bibiani  offre  sa  niece  en  mariage  a  Raphael. 


J.  A.  D.  INGRES.  751 

Raphael  voit  pour  la  premiere  fois  la  Fornarina  se  lavant 
les  pieds  au  Tibre  du  c6t6  de  Santa  Cecilia  ou  eWe  loge,  et  en 
deviant  subitement  amoureux,  tant  elle  est  belle. 

Raphael  allant  au  Cours  est  suivi  de  citiquante  peintres  qui 
Taccompagnent  par  amour  de  sa  gentille  et  amoureuse  per- 
sonne  et  pourlui  faire  honneur.  {Au  crayon)  On  voit  dans  le 
fond  Michel-Ange  tout  seul. 

Sujet :  Raphael  re^oit  le  portrait  d'Albert  Diirer.  Le  Pape 
Jules  II  devant  le  tableau  de  la  Dispute  du  Si'Sacrement. 

Le  Pape,  accompagn^  de  Bramante  et  Raphael,  va  voir  son 
tableau  de  la  Dispute  du  Si'Sacrement. 

Le  Pape,  I'ayant  vu,  se  prosterne  et  dit  :  —  Je  te  remercie, 
6  grand  Dieu,  de  m'avoir  donn6  un  aussi  grand  peintre  sous 
mon  pontificat. 


«  « 


Je  fus  voir  avec  Pauline  les  Stances  de  Raphael ;  jamais  je 
ne  le  (?)  vis  si  beau,  et  je  remarquai  encore  plus  que  jamais 
combien  cet  homme  divin  I'emporte  sur  les  autres  hommes. 

Je  fus  plus  convaincu  encore  qu'il  travaillait  de  g&nie  et  qu'il 
avait  toute  la  nature  dans  sa  tfete  ou  plutot  dans  son  coeur,  et 
que,  lorsqu'on  en  est  la,on  est  comme  un  second  cr6ateur.  Sa 
Dispute  et  surtout  sa  messe  de  Bolsfene  m'ont  paru  des  chefs- 
d'oeuvre.  Dans  celle-ci,  quels  beaux  portraits  !  et  dans  I'autre, 
cette  belle  et  noble  sym^trie  qu'il  a  mise  presque  toujours  dans 
ses  belles  compositions,  ce  qui  leur  donne  cet  air  grandiose  et 
majestueux.  Dans  H61iodore,  il  a  mis  selon  sa  coutume,  et 
c'est  beau,  ses  groupes  principaux  sur  les  bords  et  sur  les 
c6t6s,  et  il  a  laiss6  de  mfeme  I'^cole  d'Athfenes. 

Ses  plis  ont  I'air  de  faire  place  a  d'autres,  tant  ils  imitent 
bien  la  nature  et  leur  mouvement  naturel.  II  faudrait  des  vo- 
lumes pour  m'6tendre  sur  les  belles  qualit6s  et  inventions, 
mais  je  dirai  que  le  Vatican  vaut  bien  plus  a  lui  seul  que  tous 
les  tableaux  de  I'Europe  ensemble.  Ce  beau  mus6e  est  tene- 
ment vari6  de  genre  !  II  parait  avoir  touch6  toutes  les  cordes 
de  la  nature. 

Et  tout  cela  est  peint  sur  les  dessins.  Continuous  et  tachons, 
s'il  est  possible,  de  je  devjner  et  de  Timiter.  Moi,  assez  malhey- 


752  COSMOPOUS, 

reux  pour  regretter  toute  ma  vie  de  n'6tre  pas  n6  dans  son 
sifecle,  pour  6tre  devenu  son  disciple  v6ritablement. 


« 


On  dit  que  Raphael  dessinait  ses  draperies  d'apr6s  les  Aleves 
qui  travaillaient  avec  lui  parce  qu'ils  savaient  mieux  que 
d'autres  s'accommoder  d'une  manifere  qui  fit  paraitre  de  beaux 
plis. 


Vie  de  Nicolas  Poussin  a  traiter  en  sujets. 

Sujeis  :  Sa  vie  est  en  danger  aux  Quattro  FonianOy  a  Rome. 
II  est  assailli  par  des  soldats  espagnols  et  ne  doit  son  salut 
qu'a  son  courage  et  a  sa  presence  d'esprit,  en  se  servant  d'un 
baton  comme  arme  et  de  son  portefeuille  comme  bouclier. 

En  presence  de  la  fresque  du  Dominiquin,  les  Foueiteurs^  a 
St-Gr6goire,  il  persuade  aux  jeunes  peintres  qui  dessinaient 
d'aprfes  celle  du  Guide,  de  I'abandonner  pour  6tudier  I'oeuvre 
du  dernier  des  grands  maitres  italiens. 

Poussin  soign6  par  la  famille  de  Jacques  Dughet ;  celui-ci 
lui  donne  sa  iille  en  mariage.  Guaspre  Dughet,  fr^e  de  sa 
femme,  est  devenu  son  61feve  et  son  ami ;  Poussin  Temm^ne 
en  France  avec  lui. 

Le  Cardinal  de  Richelieu  re9oit  Poussin  a  bras  ouverts. 

Poussin  d6couvre  le  roi,  qui  s'6tait  m616  aux  courtisans  pour 
6prouver  sa  sagacit6.  11  s'incline  respectueusement  devant  le 
monarque. 

Vouet,  Fouquiferes  et  Lemercier  ligu6s  contre  Poussin. 

De  retour  a  Rome,  Poussin  entour6  de  ses  amis  et  des 
peintres  des  diverses  nations,  discourt,  respects,  6cout6  et 
admir6,  en  se  promenant  sur  la  place  d'Espagne  ou  devant  la 
Trinit6  du  Mont. 

Poussin  ^claire  un  cardinal  dans  son  escalier. 


J.  A.  D,  INGRES.  753 

Je  ne  sais  que  le  seul  M.  Mignard  qui  ei^t  ignore  Poussin. 
M.  de  Chantelou  sollicitait  depuis  longtemps  le  Poussin  de  lui 
f aire  son  portrait.  Celui-ci  lui  r6pondit :  "  Je  d6sire  bien  vous 
contenter  ;  mais  //  n'y  a  pas  de  peinire  d  Rome  en  ^tai  de  le  bien 
faireJ*  Dans  une  de  ses  lettres,  en  date  du  mois  de  mai 
1650,  il  annonce  a  M.  de  Chantelou  qu'il  a  r^solu  de  le  faire 
lui-mdme.  II  lui  6crit :  "  Je  me  dispose  ^  vous  envoyer  sous 
peu  mon  portrait,  j'ai  cependant  de  la  peine  a  le  iinir,  car  il  y 
a  plus  de  vingt-huit  ans  que  je  n'en  ai  point  fait." 

Poussin  fit  a  Rome  pour  le  m£me  et  a  sa  pri^re,  la  Vision  de 
St'Paul  pour  accompagner  la  Vision  d'Ez^kiel  de  Raphael. 
La  r^ponse  de  Poussin  fait  autant  connaitre  sa  modestie  que 
son  respect  pour  le  prince  de  la  peinture. 

Le  2  juillet  de  la  mSme  ann6e  il  s'exprime  en  ces  termes  : 
**Je  Grains  que  ma  main  tremblante  ne  me  manque  en  un 
ouvrage  qui  doit  accompagner  celui  de  Raphael ;  j'ai  de  la 
peine  a  me  r6soudre  a  y  travailler,  si  vous  ne  me  promettez  que 
mon  tableau  ne  servira  que  de  couverture  a  celui  de  Raphael." 
Lorsqu'il  le  lui  envoya,  il  lui  6crivit :  "  Je  vous  supplie,  tant 
pour  6viter  la  calomnie  que  la  honte  que  j'aurais  qu'on  vit 
mon  tableau  en  parangon  de  celui  de  Raphael,  de  le  tenir 
s6i>ar6  et  61oign6  de  ce  qui  pourrait  le  miner  et  lui  faire  perdre 

si  pen  qu'il  a  de  beauU." 

«  * 

Poussin  avait  soixante  ans  et  plus  lorsqu'il  peignit  le 
tableau  de  la  Femnte  adult^e. 

Le  Frappement  du  Rocker.  —  M.  Stella  ayant  fait  part  au 
Poussin  de  la  critique  (trfes  b6te  et  minutieuse)  qu'avait 
cprouvee  son  tableau  au  sujet  de  la  profondeur  du  lit  que 
I'eau  semblait,  disait-on,  n'avoir  pu  creuser  en  si  peu  de  temps 
ni  dtre  dispos6  si  favorablement  par  la  nature  dans  un  lieu 
aussi  sec  et  aussi  aride  que  le  dteert,  le  Poussin  r^pondit  a 
cette  lettre  :  "  Je  suis  bien  aise  qu'on  sache  que  je  ne  jette 
rien  au  hasard  et  que  je  suis  assez  bien  instruit  de  ce  qui  est 
permis  k  un  peintre  dans  les  objets  qu'il  veut  repr^senter, 
lesquels  se  peuvent  prendre  et  consid6rer   comme  ils  ont 


754  COSMOPOLIS. 

6t6,  comme  ils  sont  encore  ou  comme  ils  doivent  etre.  La 
disposition  du  lieu  od  se  miracle  se  fit  devait  ^tre  de  la  sortc 
que  je  I'ai  figurte,  parce  qu'autrement  I'eau  n'aurait  pu  6tre 
ramass^e  ni  prise  pour  s'en  servir  dans  le  besoin  qu'une  si 
grande  quantity  de  gens  en  avait.  Au  contraire,  elle  se  serait 
r6pandue  de  tous  c6t6s,  si  k  la  creation  du  monde  la  terre  eut 
refu  une  forme  informe  et  que  les  eaux  n'eussent  point  trouv^ 
de  lit  et  des  profcndeurs,  sa  superficie  aurait  6t6  toute  couverte 
et  inutile  aux  animaux  ;  mais  dfes  le  commencement  Dieu 
disposa  toutes  choses  avec  ordre  et  rapport  a  la  fin  pour 
laquelle  il  perfectionnait  son  ouvrage.  Ainsi  dans  des  6v6ne- 
ments  aussi  considerables  que  fut  celui-ci,  on  peut  croire  qu'il 
arrive  toujours  des  choses  merveilleuses ;  de  sorte  que,  n'6tant 
pas  ais^  d  tout  le  monde  de  hien  juger,  on  doit  etre  fort  rvtenu  ct 
ne  pas  dMder  tim^airement.'' 

Le  Poussin  fit  une  grande  partie  de  ses  beaux  paysages  dans 
les  derni^res  ann6es  de  sa  vie,  tels  que  : 

JJAco; 

Polyphonic  amoureux ; 

Orphie; 

Les  Obsi^ques  de  Phocion  ; 

Pyrame  et  Thisb^. 
Au  sujet  de  celui-ci,  il  6crivit  au  sieur  Stella  qu'il  avait  fait 
un  grand  paysage  "  dans  lequel  j'ai,  dit-il,  essay6  de  repr6sen- 
ter  une  temp6te  sur  terre,  imitant  le  mieux  que  j'ai  pu  I'effet 
d'un  vent  imp6tueux,  d'un  air  rempli  d'obscurit6,  de  pluie, 
d'6clairs  et  de  foudres  qui  tombent  en  plusieiu's  endroits,  non 
sans  y  faire  du  d6sordre,  Toutes  les  figures  qu'on  y  voit 
jouent  leur  personnage  selon  le  temps  qu'il  fait ;  les  uns  fuient 
au  travers  de  la  poussi^re  et  suivent  le  vent  qui  les  emporte  ; 
d'autres  au  contraire  vont  contre  le  vent  et  marchent  avec 
peine,  mettant  devant  les  yeux  leurs  mains.  D'un  c6t6,  un 
berger  court  et  abandonne  son  troupeau,  voyant  un  lion  qui 
aprfes  avoir  mis  par  terre  certains  bouviers,  en  attaque  d'autres, 
dont  les  uns  se  d6fendent  et  les  autres  piquent  leurs  boeufs  en 
tachant  de  se  sauver.  Dans  ce  d6sordre  la  poussi^re  s'61feve 
par  gros  tourt)inons  ;  un  chien  assez  eloign^  aboie  et  se  h<Jrisse 


J.  A.  D.  INGRES.  755 

le  poll  sans  oser  s'approcher.  Sur  le  devant  du  tableau  on  voit 
Pyrame  mort,  etendu  par  terre  et  auprfes  de  lui  Thisb6  qui 
s'abandonne  a  la  douleur." 

* 

Dans  le  style  agreste,  ou  le  Poussin  rappelle  les  siecles  poc- 
tiques,  il  n'eut  en  peinture  ni  modeles  ni  rivaux  a  combattre. 
Uniquement  attache  a  la  nature,  elle  fut  son  guide  et  pour  lui 
une  source  intarissable  jusqu'au  dernier  moment  de  sa  vie. 

Vigneul  de  Marville,  qui  Ta  connu  fort  ag6,  dit  :  "  J'ai  sou- 
vent  admir6  Tamour  extreme  que  cet  excellent  peintre  avait 
pour  la  perfection  de  son  art.  A  Tage  ou  il  6tait,  je  Tai  ren- 
contre parmi  les  debris  de  I'ancienne  Rome  et  quelquefois 
dans  la  Campagne  et  sur  les  bords  du  Tibre,  qui  dessinait  ce 
qu'il  rencontrait  le  plus  a  son  gout.  Je  Tai  vu  aussi  qui  rap- 
portait  dans  son  mouchoir  des  cailloux  et  de  la  mousse,  des 
fleurs  et  d'autres  choses  semblabes  qu'il  voulait  peindre 
exactement  d'apres  nature." 


Poussin  ne  se  .presente  pas  a  la  post6rite  avec  Tavantagc 
d'avoir  et6  appelc  dans  les  travaux  publics  61ev6s  a  la  gloire 
des  arts.  (A  qui  la  faute  ?  A  un  roi  petit,  a  des  ministres  point 
assez  instruits  et  par  consequent  les  instrument  du  mal,  a 
Vouet,  la  cabale,  etc.)  Ses  heureux  gouts  philosophiques  Ten 
consolferent ;  il  cherissait  Tindependance  et  s'^tait  (Hevi  au- 
dcssns  de  la  gloire  de  vaincre  des  rivaux,  Dans  les  6preuves 
du  malheur,  il  avait  appris  a  connaitre  la  perversity  du  coeur 
humain.  R6serv6,  prudent,  difficile,  il  redoutait  ce  mouvement 
que  vulgairement  on  appelle  le  jugement  du  public  et  que  de 
tout  temps  I'exp^rience  a  si  souvent  d6montr^  n'^tre  dans  les 
beaux-arts  que  Timpulsion  de  Tintrigue  et  de  la  cabale.  L'a- 
mour  extreme  qu'il  eut  toute  sa  vie  pour  la  retraite  et  son 
infortune  Tobligferent  a  restreindre  ses  ouvrages  dans  une  pro- 
portion bornte.  Libre  de  toute  ambition,  dans  la  route  qu'il 
se  fraya  il  fit  naitre  des  jouissances  inconnues  jusqu'a  lui ;  il  ne 
s'en  ecarta  jamais  et  sut  profiter  toute  sa  vie  du  parti  qu'il  en 
tira  pour  satisfaire  son  g6nie  et  pour  vivre  en  paix.  Plus  il 
produisait,  plus  I'amour  de  son  art  semblait  augmenter  en  lui 
et  ses  conceptions  prenaient  un  caractfere  plus  male  et  plus 
philosophique  avec  I'age. 

VOL.  IX.— XO,  XXMI.  lu 


756  COSMOPOLIS. 

*'  En  vieillissant,  disait-il  a  ses  amis,  je  me  sens  plus  que 
jamais  enflamm6  du  d6sir  de  me  surpasser  et  d'atteindre  la 
plus  haute  perfection." 

Rafement  livrait-il  un  tableau  qu'il  ne  Taccompagnat  d'une 
lettre  ou  il  rendait  compte  des  motifs  qui  Tavaient  dirigc  dans 
sa  composition.  Sa  coutume  6tait  de  dessiner  et  d'ecrire,  dans 
un  livre  qu'il  portait  avec  lui,  tout  ce  qu'il  remarquait  a  sun 
gout. 

Depuis  son  retour  a  Home,  sa  vie  est  une  image  des  mceurs 
antiques.  Sa  philosophie  n'6tait  ni  sauvage  ni  affectee.  S'il  ne 
recherchait  pas  la  societ6,  souvent  il  c^dait  a  cette  loi  naturellc 
qui  appelle  les  hommes  a  se  r^unir  en  famille.  Sa  maison, 
plac^e  prfes  la  Trinity  du  Mont,  lui  procurait  I'avantage  de  se 
promener  une  heure  ou  deux  le  matin  sur  Tesplanade  ;  il  y 
^tait  toujours  attendu  par  des  amis  et  des  savants  qui  se  plai- 
saient  a  converser  avec  lui.  II  retournait  ensuite  dans  son 
atelier,  et  le  soir  on  Tattendait  a  la  promenade  avec  le  meme 
empressement. 

Peu  d'artistes  dans  leur  temps  de  prosperity  ont  etc  plus  a 
meme  que  le  Poussin  de  tenter  la  fortune  ;  mais  les  preuves  dc 
son  desintcressement  etaient  toujours  ccrites  derriere  sa  toile. 
jamais  on  ne  discutait  le  prix  qu'il  fixait  pour  son  ouvrage  ct 
il  renvoyait  I'exc^dent  a  ceux  qui  grossissaient  la  somme. 

On  ne  penetrait  pas  ais^ment  dans  I'ateiier  du  Poussin. 

//  itc  voulait  jamais  faire  cVd^^es.  Sa  vie  laborieuse  Tobli- 
geait  a  ^carter  de  lui  tout  ce  qui  pouvait  troubler  sa  tranquil- 
lite  ;  il  attachait  un  tel  prix  a  sa  liberty  qu'il  se  passait  meme 
de  valet. 

Ses  reparties  etaient  autant  de  maximes  sentencieuses  qui 
dteelaient  les  hautes  vertus  avec  lesquelles  se  sont  distingues 
quelques  philosophes  de  I'antiquit^. 

11  fit  toujours  la  guerre  au  faux  gout,  II  fit  aussi  la  critique 
d'un  auteur  qui  se  melait  d'^crire  sur  la  peinturc. 

"  Nous  avons,  dit-il,  N...  qui  ecrit  sur  les  oeuvres  des  peintres 
modernes  et  de  leur  vie.  Son  style  est  ampoule,  sans  sel  et 
sans  doctrine  :  il  touche  I'art  de  la  peinture  comme  celui  qui 
n'en  a  ni  theorie  ni  pratique.  Plusieurs  qui  ont  ose  y  mettrc 
la  main  ont  6td*  recompens6s  de  moquerie,  comme  ils  ont 
merite,  etc..." 


J.  A.  D.  INGRES.  757 

Le  Poussin  moiirut  vers  le  milieu  du  jour  le  19  uovembre 
1665,  a  I'age  de  soixante  et  onze  ans  cinq  mois.  Par  son 
testament  fait  deux  mois  avant,  il  d^fendit  de  faire  aucune 
cer6monie  a  son  enterrement  et  disposa  de  son  bien  qui  se 
montait  a  la  somme  de  cinquante  mille  livres. 

Tous  ses  tableaux  se  ressentent  de  r6tude  particuliere  qu'il  a 
faite  de  la  peinture  antique,  les  Noces  cildobrandines,  notam- 
ment  ;  il  a  pouss6  la  veneration  pour  les  anciens  assez  loin 
pour  desirer  donner  a  ses  ouvrages  Tair  de  vrais  tableaux 
antiques  jusque  meme  a  la  proportion  de  ses  figures.  11  nous 
a  enseign6  que  lorsqu'on  veut  repr6senter  de  pareils  sujets  de 
Tantiquit^y  il  ne  faut  pas  qu'il  y  ait  dans  le  tableau  rien  qui 
vous  fasse  penser  aux  temps  modernes.  L'esprit  se  promene 
dans  les  siecles  passes  et  rien  ne  doit  alors  se  presenter  a  lui 
qui  puisse  le  tirer  de  cette  illusion. 

*  «  * 

Sujet :  Michel-Ange  et  Jules  111.  Conversation.  Les  card i- 
naux  debout  et  lui  assis. 

Sujet :  Michel-Ange  examine  son  Jugemeni  dernier  apres 
vingtann6es  qu'il  Teut  fait  dans  la  Chapelle  sixtine.  Son  pen- 
dant est  dans  Jules  II  en  extase  devant  la  Dispute  du  Saint- 
Sacrementy  accompagn^  de  Bramante,  Raphael  et  des  cardi- 
naux  de  M6dicis  (depuis  L6on  X),  de  Bibiano,  Sadolet  et 
autres. 

Sujet :  Michel-Ange  fait  la  paix  avec  Jules  II  qui  chasse  un 
eveque  impertinent  de  son  appartement. 

Sujet :  Michel-Ange.  Pour  celui-ci,  il  est  couronne  par  la 
peinture,  la  sculpture  et  I'architecture. 

Sujet:  Michel-Ange  touchant,  aveugle,  le  torse  antique, 
conduit  par  un  de  ses  61feves. 

Sujet :  Michel-Ange  va  trouver  le  Pape  a  Bologne.  11  fut 
conduit  aux  pieds  de  Jules  II,  et  parce  que  le  cardinal  Soderini 
etait  malade,  il  envoya  un  Eveque  de  sa  maison  pour  accom- 
pagner  Michel-Ange.  Jules  le  regardant  d'un  air  d^daigneux, 
lui  dit  en  colore :  "  Enfin,  au  lieu  de  venir  nous  trouver,  vous 
avez  attendu  que  nous  ayons  et6  nous-meme  vous  chercher." 


75^  COSMOPOLIS 

Michcl-Aiige,   sans   s  etonner,    repartit   au   Pape  :    qu'il   priail 
trfes  humblement  Sa  Saintet6  de  lui  pardonner,  que  ce  qu'il 
avail  fait  6tait  par   iin   mouvement  de  d6plaisir,  ne  pouvant 
souffrir  qu'on  le  traitat  mal  ;  qu'il  savait  bien  qu'il  avait  failli. 
Mais  r^veque   qui   avait  conduit  Michel-Ange  aux  pieds  dii 
Pape,  representant  a  Sa  Saintete,  pour  I'excuser,  qu'elle  de\'ait 
lui  pardonner,  parce  que  les  personnes  de  sa  profession  sont 
d'ordinaire  ignorantes  et  que  hormis  ce  qui  regarde  leur  art, 
ils  sont  incapables  de  toute  autre  chose  ;  le  Pape  se  mit  si 
fort  en  colere  qu'il  frappa  I'^v^que  d'un  baton  qu'il  tenait,  lui 
disant:    *'Vous  etes   vous-mdme  ignorant  et  vous  lui  faites 
injure  lorsque  nous  ne  voulons  pas  I'offenser."     Qu'ainsi  Te- 
veque  fut  mis  honteusement  hors  de  la  chambre,  et  le  Pape 
ayant  d6charg6  sur  lui  toute  sa  colore,  donna  sa  benediction  :i 
Michel-Ange,  auquel  il  fit  plusieurs  presents  et  promit  encore 
de  plus  grandes  recompenses. 

Titicn ;  scs  Portraits.  -  L'air  iiaturel  et  peu  affecte  des  por- 
traits du  Titien,  donl  la  noblesse  qui  leur  parait  inherente  nous 
arrache  un  respect  involontaire... 

Lorsque  par  hasard  un  portrait  du  Titien  se  trouve  place  ;'i 
cote  du  plus  beau  Vandyck,  celui-ci  devient  froid  et  gris  par 
cette  comparaison. 

La  qualite  de  detacher  les  objets  en  peinture  et  que  beau- 
coup  regardent  comme  une  chose  de  la  plus  grande  importance 
dans  un  tableau,  n'eiait  pas  un  des  points  sur  lesquels  le  Titien 
(d'ailleurs  le  plus  grand  coloriste  de  tous)  avait  le  plus  fixe  son 
attention. 

Raphael  et  le  Titien  sont,  sans  contredit,  au  premier  rang 
parmi  les  peintres.  Raphael  et  le  Titien  paraissent  avoir  con- 
sider6  la  nature  sous  des  aspects  differents. 

Tous  deux  ont  possede  le  talent  d'etendre  leur  vue  sur  le 
tout ;  mais  le  premier  a  cherche  le  sublime  dans  les  formes  et 
le  second  dans  les  coloris. 

Titieti  et  Charles-Quint,  —  Titien  ne  put  se  dispenser  d'aller 
a  la  cour  de  I'empereur  Charles-Quint,  auquel  il  apporta 
quelques-uns  de  ses  ouvrages  et  qu'il  peignit  pour  la  troisieme 
fois.  C'est  alors  que  travaillant,  on  dit  qu'il  lui  tomba  un 
pinceau  de  la  main,  et  que  Tempereur  I'ayant  ramasse,  le  Titien 


J.  A.  D.  INGRES.  759 

se  prosterna  aussitot  pour  le  recevoir,  en  disant  ces  parolca  ; 
'*  Sire,  non  merita  cotanto  onore  un  servo  suo."  A  quoi  Tem- 
pereur  repartit :  "  E  degno  Titiano  vissere  sereto  da  Cesare." 

Sujet.  —  Cimabu^  ei  Giotto.  —  II  voit  le  jeune  Giotto  des- 
sinant  avec  une  pierre  aigu^  sur  la  terre  la  figure  des  moutons 
oil  des  vaches  qu'il  garde. 

Sujet. —  Le  Fiesole  peignait  un  Christ,  les  religieux  enten- 
dant  des  g6missements  dans  sa  cellule,  entrent  et  le  trouvent 
gisant  a  terre  baign6  de  pleurs,  au  pied  d'un  tableau. 

Stijct.  —  Lorsqu'il  prenait  le  pinceau  pour  travailler,  il  se 
niettait  en  priferes,  et  on  Ta  vu  tout  baign^  de  larmes  pendant 
qu'il  travaillait  a  un  crucifix,  dans  le  souvenir  qu'il  avait  des 
peines  souffertes  sur  la  croix. 

Sujet.  —  Philippo  Lippi,  peintre,  fut  pris  sur  mer  par  un 
brigantin  maure  et  nais  a  la  chaine.  II  y  avait  huit  mois  que 
frfere  Philippe  6tait  dans  Tesclavage,  lorsqu'il  s'avisa  un  jour  de 
tracer  au  charbon  contre  une  muraille  le  portrait  du  maitre 
qu'il  servait.  II  le  repr6senta  si  bien,  et  avec  les  m^mes  habits 
qu'il  portait  d'ordinaire,  que  ce  barbare  en  fut  d'autant  plus 
surpris  qu'il  n'avait  jamais  rien  vu  de  pareil,  de  fa^on  qu'en 
admirant  ce  portrait  il  obligea  Philippe  a  lui  en  faire  encore 
quelques  autres  dont  il  le  r^compensa  bien,  car  il  lui  donna  sa 
liberty  et  le  fit  conduire  siirement  jusque  dans  Naples. 

* 
Leonardo  da  Vinci  point  la  Joconde.  —  Leonard  de  Vinci  fit 
le  portrait  de  Lise,  femme  de  Frangois  Joconde.  Get  ouvrage 
est  I'un  des  plus  achev6s  de  ce  peintre.  On  dit  qu'il  prit  tant 
de  plaisir  a  y  travailler  qu'il  fut  quatre  mois  a  le  faire  et  que, 
pendant  qu'il  peignait  cette  dame,  il  y  avait  toujours  quelqu'un 
auprfes  d'elle  qui  chantait  ou  qui  jouait  de  quelque  instrument, 
afin  de  la  tenir  dans  une  tranquille  joie.  II  prit  un  soin  parti- 
culier  a  le  bien  faire.  Aussi  Frangois  I*',  consid6rant  ce  tableau 
comme  une  merveille  des  plus  achev6es,  voulut  I'avoir  a  lui  et 
le  paya  quatre  mille  6cus. 

Sujet.  —  Mort  de  Leonard  de  Vinci  entre  les  bras  de  Fran- 
cois I**^,  roi  de  France. 


760  COSMOPOLIS. 

Sff/V/.  —  Leonard  fait  marcher  devant  Louis  XI!  iin  lion 
m^canique  qui  ouvre  ses  flancs  pleins  de  fleurs  de  lis. 

Le  berceau  de  la  belle  Peinture.  La  chapelle  del  Francaccio 
a  r^glise  des  Cannes,  a  Florence  :  tous  les  plus  c616bres 
peintres  d'alors  y  vont  6tudier  et  former  leur  gout,  principale- 
ment  Raphael. 

Beau  tableau  :  le  Donatello  met  sa  bourse  au  service  de  ses 
t!l(I?ves. 

Sujt'is,  —  La  mediocrite,  comme  les  chiens  de  Sylla,  courant 
apr^s  Ic  vrai  m^rite.  Le  vrai  m^rite,  poursuivi,  trouve  le 
tombeau  a  ses  pieds. 

La  m6diocrit6  court  et  entraine  et  foule  a  ses  pieds  tout  ce 
qui  a  quelque  valeur. 

Elle  a  Tart  diabolique  de  calomnier  et  accuser  les  autres  de 
ses  propres  vices. 

Le  mauvais  gout  embrasse  un  monstre  avec  tendresse  et 
rejette  un  ange  de  beauts.     Developper  cette  id6e. 

La  m6diocrit6  couronn^e  par  le  mauvais  gout.  A  c6t6,  la 
vengeance  et  la  justice  dorment. 

La  France  tourmente  le  Poussin  qui  se  jette  dans  les  bras 
(le  ritalie. 

La  m6diocrit6  portee  en  triomphe  par  le  mauvais  succes  de 
rignorance,  pr^cd^d^e  de  Taudace  et  de  Torgueil,  tend  les  mains 
crochues  et  agrippe  toutes  les  considerations  et  les  honneurs 
que  lui  pr^sentent  la  cour  et  les  amateurs,  tous  coiflfte  cepen- 
dant  a  la  Midas.  Elle  foule  tous  les  chefs-d'oeuvre  en  passant, 
elle  ^crase  tous  les  m^rites. 

Se  trainent  aupres  d'elle  :  Torgueil  stupide  et  Tincapacite, 
sans  jambes  ni  cervelle,  son  crane  coup6  net  au-dessus  des 
yeux. 

La  mcdiocrite  s'appuie  sur  Tignorance  et  la  fraude. 

Elle  rfegne  sur  le  monde,  qu'elle  enveloppe,  et  par  la 
calomnie. 

L'ignorance,  la  mfere  de  tous  les  maux  et  de  tons  les  vices 
les  plus  brutaux, 


J.  A.  D.  INGRES.  761 

La  mt^diocrite  ferme  les  portes  du  temple  de  la  gloire. 

La  post6rit6  releve  le  m6rite  mourant :  un  petit  rayon  se 
niontre  ;  mais  a  ses  pieds  la  tombe  et  le  fossoyeur. 

L'hypocrisie  a  jetc  son  masque  et  marche  avec  la  calomnie 
ct  Taiidace. 

« 

La  mediocrity  seule  rongeant  son  frein,  voyant  paffois  le 
nierite  couronnc,  acclamc.  EUe  est  assise  a  Tombre  meditant 
quelque  mauvaise  intrigue,  cependant  qu'elle  est  couverte 
d'honneurs  et  de  richesses  mal  acquises. 

La  science  lui  met  la  main  sur  T^paule,  mais  elle  la  repousse  ; 
inquiete,  maigre  comme  I'envie  ;  elle  raidit  ses  poings,  elle  les 
porte  h  ses  dents.  La  triste  impuissance  est  groupee  avec  elle  ; 
la  jalousie  et  Tenvie  groupies  autour  d'elle  a  terre  nourrissent 
ses  passions  par  la  calomnie. 

A  ses  pieds  sont  les  ouvrages  m6connus  ou  m6pris6s.  La 
justice,  la  post6rit6  tardive  et  boiteuse,  un  baton  a  la  nlain, 
arrivent  a  la  v6rit6,  mais  toujours  trop  tard,  secoun'r  le  vrai 
merite  qui  succombait ;  dies  le  couronneni  mort  et  son  fimc 
s'cnvole  aux  cieux. 

Tableau  sur  la  uohlc  Antiquite.  —  Elle  est  assise  belle,  calme, 
la  partie  sup6rieure  de  la  figure  dans  le  ciel  de  TOlympe  ; 
I'autre,  sur  un  piedestal  de  granit  ou  de  quelque  autre  pierre 
dure  comme  le  diamant.  Elle  regarde  en  souriant  les  efforts 
impuissants  que  font  Voltaire  et  les  autres  pour  tacher 
d'entamer  avec  leurs  dents  que  la  rage  met  en  sang  le  piedestal 
de  son  trone.  Les  apotres  de  la  m6diocrit6  et  du  mauvais  gout, 
les  romantiques  de  tous  les  temps  sont  la,  a  commencer  par  le 
Tasse  et  son  clinquant,  tous  les  coryphees  de  cette  mauvaise 
ccole  si  justement  fl6trie  par  le  vrai  restaurateur  de  lettres,  a 
rimitation  des  anciens,  par  Boileau. 

Les  Zoiles  fran^ais  s'y  trouvent,  mais  Hercule  arrive  avec 
sa  massue  pour  les  terrasser,  et  a  c6t6  de  Tantiquite  plane  la 
victoire. 


*  « 
* 


Portraits. — Le  Poussin  ne  pouvait  rien  souffrir  du  Caravage 
et  disait  qu'il  6tait  venu  au  monde  pour  detruire  la  peinture. 
On  pourrait  bien  en  dire  de  meme  de  Rubens  et  de  tant 
(^'autres.     II  a  cependant  fait  de  beaux  portraits,  notammeqt 


762  COSMOPOLIS. 

celui  du  grand  maitre  de  Malte,  qui  va  de  pair  avec  les  plus 
beaUx  portraits  de  premifere  ligne. 

Vandyck  faisait  toujours  un  portrait  du  premier  coup  ;  il 
cominen(pait  le  matin,  et  pour  ne  pas  interrompre  son  travail 
par  un  long  intervalle  de  temps,  il  retenait  a  diner  ceux  dont  il 
faisait  les  portraits,  qui  demeuraient  volontiers  chez  lui  de 
quelque  qualitc  qu'ils  fussent,  parce  qu'ils  t^taient  bien  traites 
et  divertis  agr6ablement  pendant  le  repas.  Aprcs  le  diner  il 
ne  faisait  plus  que  les  retoucher,  pour  les  finir. 


»  * 

» 


Un  portrait  manque  souvent  de  ressemblance  parce  qu'il  a 
M  mal  pose,  par  de  mauvaises  dispositions  de  lumi^re  et 
d'ombres  qui  feraient  meconnaitre  meme  Toriginal,  si  on  le 
voyait  dans  le  meme  endroit  ou  il  a  6t6  peint. 

Pour  y  bien  reussir,  il  faut  se  p6n6trer  du  visage  qu'on  veut 
peindre,  le  consid^rer  longtemps  de  tous  les  c6t6s  et  consacrer 
a  cela  meme  la  premiere  stance. 

Outre  cela,  il  y  a  des  visages  qui  sont  plus  avantageux  a 
peindre  de  front,  d'autres  de  trois  quarts  ou  de  cote,  quelques- 
uns  de  profil ;  les  uns  demandent  beaucoup  de  lumi^re, 
d'autres  font  plus  d'eflfet  quand  il  y  a  des  ombres.  Les  visages 
maigres  surtout,  auxquels  il  faut  procurer  de  Tom^ire  dans  la 
cavite  des  yeux,  ce  qui  fait  qu'une  tete  a  beaucoup  de  carac- 
tere.  Pour  cela  il  faut  faire  venir  le  jour  du  haut  et  en  petite 
quantite. 

Peindre  sans  les  Moileies.—Annihzl  Carrache  ayant  com- 
menai  a  peindre  de  pratique  un  Christ  mort  sur  les  genoux  de 
la  Vierge,  pour  un  tableau  d'autel  qui  est  dans  I'^glise  de  San 
Francisco,  a  Rippa,  i I  en  fit  une  figure  admirable  et  toute 
divine  ;  mais  ayant  ensuite  fait  depouiller  un  modfele  et  retou- 
ch6  d'apr^s  lui  le  corps  du  Christ,  il  changea  toute  cette  pre- 
miere production  de  son  esprit ;  et  pour  s'etre  trop  d6fi<l"  de 
ses  moyens  gata  son  tableau  pour  ainsi  avoir  fait. 

Done,  voila  un  exemple  dont  il  faut  se  rappeler  dans  I'exe- 
cution  de  la  peinture.  D'ailleurs,  en  dehors  de  celui-la,  il  y  a 
mille  preuves  que  les  anciens  peintres  de  I'^cole  de  Raphael  et 
tous  les  grands  peintres   ont  ex6cut6  sur  des  cartons  leurs 


J.  A.  D.  INGRES.  763 

grandes  fresques,  et  leurs  petits  tableaux  de  chevalets  d'apri^s 
des  dessins  plus  ou  moins  terminus.  D'autant  que  pour  cette 
grande  preuve,  il  faut  bien  se  p6n6trer  que  votre  modfele  n'est 
jamais  la  chose  que  vous  voulez  peindre  comme  caractfere  de 
dessin,  ni  comme  couleur,  mais  qu'il  est  en  meme  temps  indis- 
pensable de  rien  faire  sans  lui. 

Le  plus  beau  des  hommes  (et  n'eussiez-vous  qu'un  malotru) 
doit  vous  servir  pour  la  structure  du  corps  humain,  mouve- 
ment  et  aplomb.  C'est  ce  que  Raphael  faisait  lorsqu'il  a 
commence  les  etudes  des  mouvements  de  figure  sur  ses  61feves. 
C'est  ce  qu'il  fit  pour  son  divin  tableau  de  la  Dispute  du  Saiut- 
Sacrement.  Et  tel  g6nie  que  vous  ayez,  si  vous  peignez  jusqu'au 
bout  d'aprds  non  la  nature,  mais  votre  modfele,  vous  en  serez 
toujours  esclave  et  votre  peinture  sentira  la  servitude.  La 
preuve  du  contraire  est  surtout  dans  Raphael,  car  il  avait  telle- 
ment  dompt^  la  nature  et  Tavait  si  bien  dans  la  memoire  que, 
au  lieu  qu'elle  lui  commandait,  on  dirait  que  c'est  elle-meme 
qui  lui  ob6issait  ;  et,  en  effet,  il  la  faisait  ployer  a  tout  ce 
qu'elle  avait  de  plus  beau,  venant  d'elle-mdme  se  placer  dans 
ses  ouvrages.  On  dirait  que  comme  une  maitresse  passionnte 
elle  n'avait  de  si  beaux  yeux  et  des  charmes  si  puissants  que 
pour  rheureux  et  privil^gi^  Raphael,  esp^ce  de  divinity  sur  la 
terre.  Poussin  avait  coutume  de  dire  que  c'est  en  observant  ces 
choses  qu'un  peintre  devient  habile  plutot  qu'en  se  fatiguant 
a  les  copier.     Oui,  mais  il  faut  que  ce  peintre  ait  des  yeux. 

Le  Beau  Ideal 
ou  LA  Nature  parfaite  dans  son  ensemble. 

Phidias  parvient  au  sublime  en  corrigeant  la  nature,  en  s'ai- 
dant  d'elle-meme.  C'est  ainsi  qu'a  Toccasion  de  son  Jupiter 
(jlympien  il  se  servit  de  toutes  les  beautes  r6unies  de  la  nature 
entifere  pour  arriver  au  sublime  de  Tart,  et  non  a  ce  qu'on 
appelle  mal  a  propos  le  beau  id6al  ;  car  ce  mot  ne  doit  ^tre 
con^u  que  comme  I'assemblage  des  plus  belles  parties  de  la 
nature  qu'il  est  bien  rare  de  trouver  parfaite  en  ce  point,  celle- 
ci  6tant  d'ailleurs  telle  qu'il  n'y  a  rien  au-dessus  d'elle  quand 
elle  est  belle  et  que  tous  les  efforts  humains  ne  peuvent  non 
seulement  s'en  passer,  mais  T^galer,     On  a  souvent  entendu 


764  COSMOPOLIS. 

dire  au  Poussin  '*  ...que  cette  application  singulifere  (a  etudier 
le  coloris)  n'6tait  qu'un  obstacle  qui  empdchait  de  parvenir  au 
veritable  but  de  la  peinture  ;  et  que  celui  qui  s'attache  au 
principal,  acquiert  par  la  pratique  une  assez  belle  mani^re  de 
peindre." 

Differences^  Comparaisons.  —  Le  peintre  d'histoire  rend  Tes- 
pcce  en  general,  tandis  que  le  peintre  de  portraits  ne  repr^sento 
que  I'individu  en  particulier,  et  par  consequent  un  module 
souvent  ordinaire  et  plein  de  defauts. 

Prt'cepte.  —  II  faut  continuellement  former  son  gout  sur  les 
chefs-d'oeuvre  de  I'art.  C'est  perdre  le  temps  que  de  Tern- 
ploy^  a  d'autres  recherches.  On  pent  jeter  les  yeux  sur  les 
beaut6s  inf^rieures,  mais  non  les  imiter. 

IJaiiiste.  —  Quand  il  est  sur  de  marcher  dans  la  bonne  route 
et  qu'il  suit  les  traces  de  ses  pr6d6cesseurs  qui  jouissent  d'une 
grande  c616brit6,  il  pent  alors  s'armer  de  ^la  hardiesse  et  de 
I'assurance  qui  conviennent  au  g6nie,  et  il  ne  doit  pas  se 
laisser  d6tourner  du  droit  chemin  par  le  blame  d'un&  foule 
ignorante  qui  n'admire  que  ce  qui  est  d'un  genre  bas  et  com- 
mun.  L'invention  est  une  des  grandes  qualites  du  g6nie ; 
mais  si  Ton  consulte  Texp^rience,  on  trouvera  que  c'est  en  se 
rendant  famili^res  les  inventions  des  autres  qu'on  apprend  a 
inventer  soi-meme,  ainsi  qu'on  s'habitue  a  penser  en  lisant  les 
pens6es  d'autrui.  Le  plus  vaste  g6nie  que  la  nature  puisse 
produire  n'est  pas  assez  riche  par  lui-meme  pour  tirer  tout  de 
son  fonds  personnel.  Celui  qui  ne  veut  mettre  a  contribution 
aucun  esprit  que  le  sien  meme  se  trouvera  bientot  rdduit  par 
son  extreme  p^nurie  a  la  plus  mis^able  de  toutes  les  imita- 
tions, c'est-a-dire  a  celle  de  ses  propres  ouvrages  et  se  verra 
oblige  de  r6p6ter  de  nouveau  ce  qu'il  a  d6ja  r6p6te  plusieurs 
fois.  C'est  en  vain  que  les  peintres  et  les  pofetes  cherchent  a 
inventer,  si  avant  tout  ils  n'ont  pas  rassembl6  des  mat^riaux 
dignes  d'exercer  leur  esprit  et  de  faire  naitre  chez  eux  des  id6es 
nouvelles  :  rien  ne  produit  rien.  11  n'y  a  qu'a  voir  remploi 
qu'a  fait  le  divin  Raphael  des  travaux  de  ses  devanciers  et  ce 
qu'en  avait  fait  aussi  Phidias.  Done  on  ne  peut  douter  qu'un 
esprit  orn6  de  tous  les  tr6sors  des  anciens  et  des  moderne$ 


J.  A.  D.  INGRES.  765 

sera  plus  vaste  et  plus  fertile  en  ressources  en  raison  du 
nombre  des  id6es  qu'il  aura  bien  seniles,  et  ne  possfede  en  cela 
les  plus  grands  moyens  pour  inventer.  Le  jugement  d'autrui, 
loin  d'affaiblir  le  notre,  ainsi  que  le  pensent  bien  des  gens,  sert 
au  contraire  k  former  et  a  consolider  nos  id6es  de  la  perfection 
qui  dans  I'origine  sont  faibles,  informes  et  confuses  et  devien- 
nent  solides,  parfaites  et  claires  par  la  pratique  de  ceux  dont 
on  pent  dire  que  leurs  ouvrages  ont  re^u  la  consecration  des 
sifecles. 

L'^tude  ou  la  contetuplation  fructueuse  des  chefs-d'oeuvre 
tie  I'art  ne  doit  servir  qu'a  rendre  celle  de  la  nature  plus  facile 
et  non  a  la  faire  rejeter :  la  nature  6tant  ce  dont  toutes  les 
perfections  tirent  leur  origine.  En  imitant  sans  cesse,  Raphael 
fut  toujours  lui-meme.  C'est  par  les  d6bris  des  ouvrages  des 
anciens  que  les  arts  reprirent  naissance  chez  les  modernes  et 
c'est  par  leur  moyen  qu'il  faut  chercher  i  les  faire  revivre 
parmi  nous  en  les  continuant. 

II  n'y  a  point  de  scrupule  a  copier  les  anciens  dont  les  pro- 
ductions sont  regard^es  comme  un  tr6sor  commun  ou  chacun 
peut  prendre  ce  qu'il  lui  plait  etqui  nous  deviennent  propres  h 
tous  6gards  quand  nous  savons  nous  en  servir  avec  avantage. 
Un  habile  peintre  qui  ne  court  pas  risque  d'etre  corrompu  par 
des  modules  vicieux,  saura  les  utiliser  pour  le  mieux.  II  tirera 
parti  des  choses  les  plus  m^diocres,  qui  en  passant  par  ses 
mains  acquerront  de  la  perfection,  et  il  trouvera  dans  les  essais 
grossiers  de  Tart  avant  son  renouvellement  des  id6es  originales, 
des  combinaisons  raisonn6es  et,  qui  plus  est,  des  inventions 
sublimes,  le  coloris,  un  des  ornements  de  la  peinture,  sa  dame 
d'atout,  6tant  donn6  que  c'est  le  coloris  qui  procure  des 
amateurs  et  des  admirateurs  aux  plus  importantes  perfections 
de  I'art. 


■»  * 


GoiU  ifen^retl.  —  On  a  dit  que  le  plus  bas  style  des  arts,  tant 
de  la  peinture  que  de  la  poesie  et  de  la  musique  qui  plait 
naturellement  a  tous  les  hommes  en  general,  les  plus  sublimes 
efforts  de  ces  arts  n'affectent  point  les  esprits  entiferement  in- 
cultes.  Ce  gout  fin  et  d^licat  est  le  fruit  de  I'dducation  et  de 
I'habitude.  Nous  recevons  seulement  en  naissant  ce  gout  et 
la  faculte  cje  le  cultiver  ;  ainsi  que  nous  riaissons  avec  la  dispo- 


766  COSMOPOLIS. 

sition  de  recevoir  les  lois  et  les  usages  de  la  soci^te  et  de  nous 
y  conformer :  c'est  jusqu'a  ce  point  qu'on  peut  dire  qu'il  nous 
est  nature!  et  pas  plus. 

11  est  done  bien  n^cessaire,  pour  tirer  du  fruit  dela  critique, 
de  ses  amis,  que  Tartiste  sache  distinguer  par  la  connaissance 
de  leur  caractfere,  de  leur  gout,  de  leur  experience  et  de  leurs 
-  obser\'ations,  jusques  a  quel  point  ils  peuvent  lui  etre  utiles : 
pour  etre  un  bon  critique  du  grand  style  de  Tart,  on  doit  etre 
done  du  meme  gout  6pure  qui  a  preside  a  I'ouvrage  de  Tartiste. 

fmitdflon.  —  L'art  est  si  loin  de  d6river  de  la  nature  indivi- 
duelle,  ou  d'avoir  quelque  rapport  immMiat  avec  elle,  comme 
son  modele,  qu'il  y  a  meme  plusieurs  arts  qui  reposent  sur  des 
principes  qui  s'61oignent  formellement  de  la  nature.  La  prin- 
cipale  et  la  plus  importante  partie  de  la  peinture  est  de  savoir 
ce  que  la  nature  a  produit  de  plus  beau  et  de  plus  convenable. 
Le  gout  est  la  mani^re  de  sentir  des  anciens. 

Lci  Xaturc,  —  Chez  les  Grecs  la  peinture  cultiv6e  s'est  devee 
avec  une  ardeur  egale  a  la  beaut6  de  leur  g6nie  et  ils  la  por- 
terent  a  un  tel  degr6  de  perfection  qu'elle  parut  surpasser  la 
nature  meme. 

A  parler  strictement,  les  statues  grecques  ne  surpassent  la 
nature  que  parce  qu'on  a  rassemble  tant  de  belles  parties  que 
la  nature  n'est  jamais  parvenue,  ou  bien  rarement,  a  r^unir 
ensemble  dans  un  meme  sujet. 

On  doit  se  rappeler  que  les  parties  qui  composent  la  plus 
parfaite  statue  ne  peuvent  jamais,  chacune  en  particulier,  sur- 
passer la  nature  et  qu'il  nous  est  impossible  d'61ever  nos  id^es 
au  dela  de  la  beauts  de  ses  ouvrages.  Tout  ce  que  nous  pou- 
vons  faire  est  de  parvenir  a  op6rer  ce  rare  et  divin  assemblage. 

L'artiste  qui  op^re  ainsi  est  admis  dans  le  sanctuaire  de  la 
nature  ;  il  jouit  alors  de  la  vue  et  de  I'entretien  des  Dieux  et  il 
en  observe  la  majeste  comme  Phidias,  et  en  apprend  le  langa^e 
pour  en  faire  part  aux  mortels. 


Les  petits  tableaux  flamands  et  hollandais  sont  d'excellents 
modules  pour  la  couleur  et  Teffet  d'un  tableau  d'histoire.  En 
ce  genre  itnc  nature  a  part  ne  peut  exister. 


J.  A.  D.  INGRES.  767 

Le  peintre  qui  se  fie  a  son  compas  s'appuie  sur  un  fantome 
qui  ne  peut  le  soutenir.  II  y  a  peu  de  personnes  instruites  on 
ineme  ignorantes  qui,  si  Ton  pouvait  les  engager  a  dire  libre- 
ment  leurs  pens6es  sur  les  ouvrages  des  artistes  ne  puissent 
pas  leur  etre  utiles  par  leurs  avis.  Les  seules  opinions  dont  on 
ne  peut  tirer  aucun  fruit  sont  celles  d'un  mauvais  connaisseur. 

La  meme  sagacitc  qui  fait  qu'un  homme  excelle  dans  son 
talent  doit  le  guider  a  faire  un  usage  convenable  du  jugement 
des  savants  et  des  idees  des  gens  ineptes  :  le  peuple  ignorant 
montre  aussi  peu  de  gout  dans  le  jugement  qu'il  portc  dc 
I'effet  ou  du  caractfere  d'un  tableau,  qu'il  en  montre  dans  les 
objets  animus,  et  il  pr6f6rera  toujours  des  attitudes  forc^es  ou 
guindees  et  des  couleurs  brillantes  a  une  noble  simplicity  et  a 
une  grandeur  tranquille,  telle  que  nous  la  voyons  representee 
dans  les  tableaux  antiques. 

C'est  enfin  dans  la  nature  qu'on  peut  trouver  cette  beautc, 
point  de  mire  d'un  peintre,  qui  ne  doit  la  chercher  nuUe  part 
ailleurs.  II  est  aussi  impossible  de  se  former  une  id6e  d'une 
beaut6  sup6rieure  a  celle  qu'oflfre  la  nature,  qu'il  Test  de  con- 
cevoir  celle  d'un  sixieme  sens  ou  de  quelque  autre  perfection 
au-dessus  de  la  port6e  de  I'esprit  humain.  Nous  somnies 
obliges  d'etablir  toutes  nos  idees  jusqu'a  celle  de  I'Olympe  cl 
de  ses  divins  habitants,  sur  des  objets  terrestres.  Ainsi  toutc 
la  grande  etude  de  I'art  est  de  savoir  regarder  la  nature  et  dc 
savoir  I'i miter. 

J.   A.    D.    iNCiKKS. 

(A  suivre.) 


LE  PATRIOTISME  CORSE 

DU 

LIEUTENANT  NAPOLEON  BONAPARTE 

(1 785- 1 789) 


SoRTi  de  I'Ecole  militaire  de  Paris,  en  1785,  avec  le  grade  de 
lieutenant  en  second  au  regiment  d'artillerie  de  La  Fere,  Napo- 
leon Bonaparte  avait  senti  le  besoin  de  refaire  son  (Education, 
et  il  s'etait  plong6  dans  une  lecture  immense,  6norme,  prodi- 
gieuse.  De  1785  a  1789,  soit  qu'il  tienne  garnison  a  Valence 
ou  a  Auxonne,  soit  qu'il  passe  dans  Tile  de  Corse  ses  semestre^ 
et  conges,  il  lit  tout  ce  qui  lui  tombe  sous  la  main,  et  il  note, 
resume  ce  qu'il  lit.  Deux  6crivains  contemporains,  Rousseau 
el  Raynal,  I'attirent,  le  passionnent,  et,  imbu  de  leurs  id6es,  il 
appelle  de  ses  voeux  la  Revolution,  s'indigne  que  les  hommes 
se  soumettent  a  I'empire  des  pretres,  affirme  que  les  pcuples  onl 
raison  de  se  r6volter  contre  leurs  souverains  et  que  la  plupart 
des  rois  m^ritent  d'etre  detronfe. 

Mais  au  milieu  de  ses  6tudes  et  dans  I'exaltation  ou  le  jetait 
la  lecture  de  Rousseau  et  de  Raynal,  le  lieutenant  Bonaparte 
restait  Corse,  Corse  de  coeur  et  d'ame.  Corse  des  pieds  a  la 
tete.  A  cette  epoque,  le  futur  souverain  de  la  France,  I'homme 
qui  la  saluera  du  nom  de  grande  nation  et  qui  prendra  pour 
principe  et  devise  la  France  avant  tout,  n'est  pas  Franfais  ;  il 
meprise  ces  Franyais  qu'il  devait  estimer  par  dessus  tous  les 
peuples  et  proclamer  le  premier  peuple  de  la  terre  ;  il  refuse 
ce  titre  de  Fran9ais  qu'il  declare  plus  tard  le  plus  beau  titre  du 
monde.  II  se  dit  "oblige  de  servir,"  et  il  assure  que  s'il  avait 
eu  de  la  fortune,  il  aurait  habit6  Paris  en  simple  particulier, 
non  pour  jouir  des  plaisirs  de  toute  sorte  que  la  ville  offre  aux 


LE  PATRIOTISME  CORSE  DE  NAPOLEON  BONAPARTE.       769 

6trangers,   mais   pour  mieux  faire  entendre  aux  Frangais  les 
g^missements  des  Corses  ! 

Pourquoi  Rousseau  et  Raynal  sont-ils  ses  auteurs  de  predi- 
lection ?  Parce  qu'ils  affectionnent  la  Corse  et  lui  souhaitent  de 
meilleures  destin6es.  Rousseau  n'avait-il  pas  ecrit  dans  le 
Contrat  social  que  cette  petite  ile  etonnerait  I'Europe  et  que  ce 
brave  peuple,  qui  savait  recouvrer  et  d6fendre  sa  libertc,  meri- 
tait  bien  que  quelque  homme  sage  lui  apprit  a  la  conserver  ? 
N'ajoutait-il  pas  dans  ses  Confessions  que  le  peuple  corse  6tait 
un  peuple  neuf  qui  faisait  concevoir  de  lui  la  plus  belle  espe- 
rance  et  le  seul  de  TEurope  qui  ne  fut  pas  use  pour  la  16gisla- 
tion  ?  N'avait-il  pas  eu  commerce  de  lettres  avec  Paoli  ?  Nc 
projetait-il  pas,  apres  les  persecutions  de  Metiers  et  lorsqu'il 
s'enfuit  de  Suisse,  de  chercher  en  Corse  le  repos  qu'il  ne 
trouvait  nulle  part  ? 

Bonaparte  avait  les  memes  motifs  de  d6ference  et  de  venera- 
tion pour  Raynal.  L'abb6  n'avait-il  pas  fletri  la  perfidie  et 
I'avidite  des  G6nois  ?  N'avait-il  pas  predit  aux  Corses'  le 
retablissement  de  leur  gouvernement  national  et  la  Hn  de  I'in- 
juste  domination  des  Fran^ais,  comme  il  avait  predit  a  la 
France  sa  regeneration  et  a  la  Hollande  sa  chute  ?  *'  Ami  des 
hommes  libres,  lui  ccrivait  Napoleon,  vous  vous  interessez  au 
Corse  que  vous  aimez." 

C'est  parce  qu'il  est  Corse  que  Bonaparte  a,  dans  cettc 
periode  de  sa  vie,  des  sentiments  r6publicains  et  democratiques. 
II  a  lu  dans  les  annales  de  son  peuple  ces  mots  de  Giafferi  aux 
repr6sentants  de  Genes  :  "  L'exemple  que  les  Corses  donnent 
au  monde,  apprend  aux  souverains  a  ne  pas  opprimer  leur 
peuple  et  a  se  souvenir  que  la  nature  fit  le  roi  T^gal  de  ses 
sujets,  qu'il  ne  doit  son  616vation  qu'a  la  seule  puissance  des 
lois." 

Lorsqu'il  combat  la  religion  chretienne  et  I'accuse  de  rompre 
Tunite  de  I'Etat,  le  Corse  parle  en  lui  autant  que  le  disciple  de 
Rousseau.  Mieux  vaut,  selon  Bonaparte,  aimer  ses  com- 
patriotes  que  d'aimer  tons  les  hommes ;  mieux  vaut  mourir 
pour  la  liberty  politique  que  pour  la  liberte  morale.  11  ne 
voit  rien  au-dessus  de  la  patrie,  ne  reconnait  qu'une  vertu,  le 
patriotisme,  et  les  seules  grandes  ames,  suivant  lui,  sont  celles 
que  le  patriotismc  cmbrase  dc  sa  flammc. 


770  COSMOPOLIS. 

Encore,  dira  Bonaparte,  ne  suffit-il  pas  d'aimer  son  pays. 
II  faut  Taimer  par-dessus  toutes  choses;  il  faut  lui  sacrifier 
tout  ce  qu'on  a  de  plus  cher  :  le  pays  est  Tunique  nwtcur  de 
nos  actions.  Ne  parlez  pas  a  notre  jeune  Corse  de  Tamour  que 
les  hommes  ont  pour  la  gloire  et  Testime  de  leurs  semblables, 
de  Tenvieiqu'ils  ont  d'avoir  "un  nom  chante  par  la  renommee." 
Ce  vil  amour  de  la  gloire  inspirait  Robert  d'Artois  et  Gaston 
d'Orl^ans,  inspirait  Cond6  et  Turenne,  les  deux  plus  grands 
hommes  de  la  P>ance,  qui,  pouss^  par  rint6ret  personnel,  par 
le  ressentiment  d'un  refus,  par  la  soif  de  Tambition,  "  se  ruent 
contre  la  patrie,"  d6vastent  le  sol  natal  et  r6duisent  en  cendres 
les  chaumieres  qu'ils  avaient  naguere  d6fendues.  Mais  il  n'in- 
spirait  pas  L^onidas  et  les  trois  cents  Spartiates  des  Thermo- 
pyles  ;  il  n'inspirait  pas  Aristide  pardonnant  son  exil  a  ses 
ingrats  conipatriotes  ;  il  n'inspirait  pas  Th6mistocle,  qui  s'em- 
poisonnait  plutot  que  de  venger  ses  injures  et  de  mener 
les  Perses  a  la  conquete  de  la  Grece ;  il  n'inspirait  pas  les 
Thrasybulc,  les  Cincinnatus,  les  P'abricius,  les  Caton. 

Et  ne  parlez  pas  de  Tamour  a  Bonaparte.     L'amour  est  a 
ses  yeux  une  passion  lache,  indigne  de  Thomme,  bonne  pour 
les  eff6mines  du  xviii^  sifecle.     A  Sparte,  a  Rome,  r6gnait  le 
patriotisme  ;  dans  les  temps  modernes,  pr6tend  notre  lieute- 
nant de  La  Fere,  regne  le  sexe,  ce  sexe  "  faible  d'entenderaent 
comme  de  corps,  dont  tout  le  m6rite  consiste  dans  un  exterieur 
brillant,"  et  un  peuple  livre  a  la  galanterie  n'a  plus  meme  assez 
d'energie  pour  concevoir  qu'un  patriote  puisse  exister.     Napo- 
leon dira  done  dans  ses  Lettres  sur  la  Corse  que  Timprudent 
Lupo  d'Ornano,  6pris  de  Veronica,  "  laisse  croitre  dans  son 
sein   une   flamme   desordonn6e,"   et   Sinucello   lancera    cette 
apostrophe  a  son  neveu  Lupo  :  "  Amour,  passion  d6pravatrice, 
premier  fleau  de  la  vertu,  voila  tes  oeuvres  ! "    En  un  passage 
(lu  Discours  de   Lyon,  il  trouvera  que  nos  tragiques  mettent 
trop  d'amour  dans  leurs  pifeces,  et  il  leur  reprochera  de  "  souf- 
ller  sur  ce  brasier  ardent."     II  juge  que  Tamour  est  fatal  au 
bien-etre  de  la  society  comme  au  bonheur  des  particuliers,  et 
il  voudrait  en  d6faire,  en  d61ivrer  le  monde.     Vainement,  dan> 
un  curieux  entretien,  son  camarade  et  ami  Desmazis  remontre 
que  c'est   v6g6ter   que  de  ne   pas  aimer,   et   d6crit   tous  les 
ch.ii  ines  de  la  passion,  les  douces  reminiscences,  Textase  ou  Ic 


LE  PATRIOTISM K  CORSE  DE  XAPOLEON  BONAPARTE.        771 

plonge  un  soupir  de  sa  belle,  un  serrement  de  main,  une 
rencontre  des  regards,  le  portrait  qu'il  quitte  et  reprend  a  toute 
minute,  un  billet  qu'il  relit,  la  r6ponse  qu'il  m6dite  et  refait 
cent  fois,  la  promenade  solitaire  ou  "  son  imagination  s'616ve," 
ou  il  croit  voir  sa  maitresse  qui  lui  sourit,  ou  il  reve  de  sacrifier 
une  fortune  et  de  proposer  une  couronne  qu'il  n'a  pas  a  I'etre 
unique  qui  possfede  son  coeur,  ou  il  pense  aux  noces  prochai- 
nes,  aux  cadeaux,  au  chateau  qu'Ad61a'ide  doit  habiter  avec  lui, 
aux  sombres  bosquets,  aux  parterres,  aux  prairies,  bref,  a  la 
supreme  f61icit6  de  deux  amants  qui  vivent  ignores  a  I'umbre 
de  leurs  peupliers.  Bonaparte  r6plique  que  Desmazis  est  ma- 
lade,  pris  de  d61ire  et  sourd  a  la  voix  de  la  raison  ;  qu'un  amant 
mfene  une  existence  deplorable,  passe  ses  jours  et  ses  nuits  dans 
une  inquietude  extreme,  se  tourmente  de  mille  petites  choses  et 
n'est  qu'un  enfant  qui  pleure  sans  cesse  et  qui  s'alarme  ou  se 
r6jouit  au  seul  mouvement  d'une  autre  personne.  L'amour, 
ajoute  Napoleon,  trouble  notre  repos  ;  l'amour  s'empare  de 
nous,  nous  prend  tout  entiers,  et,"  seul,  nous  dicte  nos  actions  ; 
c'est  un  sentiment  deprave  qui  nous  rend  egoistes,  indifferents 
a  tout,  aux  amis,  aux  parents,  au  sol  natal.  Mais  quiconque  a 
le  cceur  tier,  n'aura  d'autre  pensee  que  de  servir  I'Etat  et  dc 
veiller  aux  interets  du  peuple.  Tomber  aux  genoux  d'unc 
femme  !  C'est  I'ennemi  qui  doit  tomber  aux  notres  1  P'aire  le 
bien,  tirer  les  malheureux  de  I'indigence,  detruire  les  brigues 
des  mechants,  defendre  la  patrie  et  concourir  a  sa  prosperite, 
etre  pour  elle  soldat,  homme  d'affaires,  courtisan  meme,  voila 
notre  devoir,  et,  pour  remplir  ce  devoir,  nous  saurons  maitriser 
notre  ame  et  la  fermer  a  l'amour  ! 

Le  lieutenant  Bonaparte  ne  respire  done  que  l'amour  de  sa 
petite  lie.  II  semble  etranger  a  toute  autre  passion  et  il  peut 
dire  comme  le  personnage  d'une  de  ses  nouvelles  :  "  J'ai  puise 
la  vie  en  Corse,  et  avec  elle  un  violent  amour  pour  mon  infor- 
tunee  patrie  et  pour  son  independance."  Le  premier  fragment 
qu'on  ait  trouve  dans  ses  papiers,  exprime  avec  une  force  sin- 
guliere  cet  attachement  de  I'ofticier  pour  la  Corse,  la  tristesse 
ou  le  plonge  le  souvenir  des  desastres  de  son  pays,  la  haine 
qu'il  ressent  contre  les  oppresseurs,  non  seulement  contre 
Genes,-  mais  contre  la  France.  Ce  fragment  est  date  du  26 
avril    1786.     Ce   jour-la.  Napoleon,  assis  a  sa  table,  dans  .sa 

VOL.   IX. — NO.   XXVII,  11 


772  COSMOPOLIS. 

chambre  de  Valence,  se  prend  a  penser  a  la  vaillante  et  inutile 
r6sistance  que  ses  concitoyens  oppos^rent  jadis  aux  Genois. 
Que  d'actes  d'une  intr6pidit6  signalte  et  d'un  patriotisme  com- 
parable a  celui  des  Komains  1  Que  de  heros,  "  illustres  ven- 
geurs  de  Thumanit^/'  qui  tentferent  d'arracher  les  Corses  au 
despotisine  !  Que  de  martyrs  !  Et  Bonaparte,  se  reportant 
dans  le  pass6,  voit  les  Sampiero,  les  Pompiliani,  les  Gafforio 
recompenses  de  leurs  vertus  par  des  poignards,  oui,  par  des 
poignards,  II  voit  Leonardo  p6rir  par  la  corde  et  les  Zucci,  les 
Rafaelli,  soutiens  de  la  liberty,  succomber  sous  les  coups  du 
miserable  Spinola.  II  voit  quatre  mille  families  de  monta- 
gnards  dont  les  maisons  ont  6te  consum6es  par  le  feu,  s'exiler 
a  jamais  et  renoncer  a  "Tespoir  de  vivre  avec  leurs  dieux 
domestiques."  Dans  sa  douleur  et  sa  colfere,  il  voue  aux  furies 
vengeresses  les  tyrans  de  sa  patrie,  leur  souhaite  d'expier  leurs 
crimes  dans  les  plus  affreux  tourments,  et  il  conclut  :  "  Les 
Corses  ont  pu,  en  suivant  toutes  les  lois  de  la  justice,  secouer 
le  joug  g6nois  et  peuvent  en  faire  autant  de  celui  des  Fran9ais. 
Amen." 

Quelques  jours  plus  tard,  le  3  mai,  il  rentre  dans  son  logis 
pour  "  rever  avec  lui-meme  et  se  livrer  a  toute  la  vivacit6  de  sa 
meiancolie."  II  est  sur  le  point  de  partir  en  semestre,  Mais 
il  songe  qu'il  ne  verra  dans  son  pays  que  des  hommes  laches  et 
rampants  :  "  Quel  spectacle  !  Mes  compatriotes  charg6s  de 
chaines  et  qui  baisent  en  tremblant  la  main  qui  les  opprime ! 
Ce  ne  sont  plus  ces  braves  Corses,  ennemis  des  tyrans  !  "  II  sc 
demande  quelle  figure  faire,  quel  langage  tenir,  et  il  maudit  les 
conqu6rants :  "  Fran9ais,  non  contents  de  nous  avoir  ravi  tout 
ce  que  nous  cherissions,  vous  avez  encore  corrompu  nos 
moeurs  1 "  Un  instant,  Tid^e  du  tyrannicide  se  pr&ente  a  lui : 
'*  Si  je  n'avais  qu'un  homme  a  d6truire  pour  deiivrer  mes  com- 
patriotes, je  partirais  au  moment  m^me  et  j'enfoncerais  dans  le 
sein  des  tyrans  le  glaive  vengeur  1 "  Le  spectacle  de  la  Corse 
asservie  le  r^volte,  le  d6sespfere,  et  il  declare  que  la  vie  lui  est  a 
charge,  qu'il  a  le  d6gout  de  toutes  choses  :  "  Quand  la  patrie 
n'est  plus,  un  bon  patriote  doit  mourir." 

De  1785  a  1789,  la  penste  de  la  Corse  reduite  k  Tesclavage 
ne  cesse  de  le  poursuivre  et  de  le  hanter.  "  Nos  maux,  6crit-il 
a  son  parrain  Giubcga,  sont  toujours  presents  a  mon  esprit  et 


LE  PATRIOTISME  CORSE  DE  NAPOLEON  BONAPARTE.       773 

ont  si  pro£ond6ment  irapp6  mon  ame  qu'il  n'y  a  rien  au  monde 
que  je  ne  sacrifiasse  pour  les  voir  finir."  Un  soir  de  novembre 
1787,  a  Paris,  dans  sa  chambre  de  I'Hotel  de  Cherbourg,  il 
g6mit  sur  I'infortune  des  Corses.  Seront-ils  6ternellement  mi- 
s6rables  ?  "  Chers  compatriotes,  s'6crie  le  jeune  homme  en 
accents  sincferes  et  p6n6trants,  nous  avons  toujours  6t6  malheu- 
reux.  Aujourd'hui  membres  d'une  puissante  monarchie,  nous 
ne  ressentons  de  son  gouvernement  que  les  vices  de  sa  consti- 
tution ;  et  aussi  malheureux,  peut-6tre,  nous  ne  voyons  de  sou- 
lagement  a  nos  maux  que  dans  la  suite  des  sifecles." 

Au  courant  de  ses  lectures,  Timage  de  son  ile  tyrannis6e 
surgit  soudain  devant  lui.  Lorsqu'il  analyse  d'aprfes  VEspion 
anglais  la  composition  des  Etats  de  Bretagne  et  qu'il  6crit : 
"  c'est  proprement  le  commandant  qui  fait  tout,"  il  pense  aux 
Etats  de  Corse  et  a  la  preponderance  de  Marbeuf  ou  de  Barrin. 
Lorsqu'il  d^pouille  les  Observations  de  Mably,  il  remarque  que 
les  Fran9ais,  "  f6roces  et  laches,  joignirent  aux  vices  des  Ger- 
mains  ceux  des  Gaulois  et  furent  le  peuple  le  plus  hideux  qui 
puisse  exister."  Lorsqu'il  lit  les  Incas  de  Marmontel,  il  note 
que  le  cruel  Espagnol  Davila  a  6t6  le  Sionville  du  Mexique. 
L'Am6rique,  ''d6vast6e  par  des  brigands  forts  de  leur  fer," 
lui  rappelle  la  Corse  en  proie  a  Narbonne-Fritzlar.  Le  P6ruvien 
qui  p6rit  pour  avoir  viol6  la  loi  de  TEurop^en,  c'est  le  Corse 
qui  p6rit  pour  avoir  viol6  la  loi  du  Fran9ais.  Aussi,  en  lisant 
YAlzire  de  Voltaire,  Bonaparte  ne  comprend-il  pas  que  I'op- 
presseur  Guzman  exprime  de  si  "  belles  pens6es,"  et  il  s'indigne 
de  "I'atroce  consentement"  de  Zamore:  "Aumotd'Am6rique, 
mon  sang  s'enflamme,  mes  cheveux  se  dressent,  le  sentiment 
de  la  douleur,  de  la  piti6  pour  ses  infortun^s  habitants,  de 
I'horreur  pour  les  brigands  qui  I'ont  d6vast6e,  me  maitrise  im- 
p6rieusement."  11  ne  con^oit  pas  que  Zamore  oublie  rAm6- 
rique  pour  une  femme.  Mais  quoi  1  il  y  avait  des  despotes  au 
P6rou,  et  Zamore  6tait  inca  ! 

La  lecture  des  ouvrages  qui  traitaient  des  mceurs  et  de  I'his- 
toire  de  son  ile  natale,  avivait  son  patriotisme  corse.  II  a  lu 
surement  le  livre  de  I'abbfi  de  Germanes.  "Gaffori,  dit-il. 
Gaff  or  i,  qui  joignis  a  Tame  de  Brutus  Moquence  de  Cic6ron, 
tu  f ais  au  patriotisme  le  sacrifice  de  ton  amour  paternal ! "  II 
emprunte  a  Germanes  les  ternies  et  les  comparaisons  de  cette 


774  COSMOPOLIS. 

apostrophe.  Gafforio,  ecrit  I'abb^,  **  avail  autant  de  valeur  que 
d'61oquence,  un  amour  pour  la  patrie  au-dessus  de  toutes  les 
autres  passions,  et,  comme  Brutus,  il  poussa  ce  sentiment 
jusqu'au  point  de  lui  sacrifier  la  tendresse  paternelle." 

11  a  lu  la  relation  de  Boswell  dans  la  traduction  frangaise  de 
1769.  L' Anglais  faisait  de  Corte,  oil  Paoli  avait  ^tabli  sa  capi- 
tale,  une  nouvelle  Lac6d6mone  et  il  ne  voyait  dans  les  Corses 
qu'une  nation  de  h6ros,  une  nation  petite,  mais  admirable,  qui 
donnait  a  son  sifecle  le  plus  remarquable  exemple  de  Tesprit 
de  libert6.  Napol6on  partagea  I'enthousiasme  de  Boswell  ct 
quelques  passages  des  6crits  de  sa  jeunesse  portent  la  trace 
manifeste  de  Tinfluence  que  le  voyageur  exer9a  sur  lui. 

Boswell  raconte  qu'un  jeune  Corse  sollicitait  de  Paoli  la 
grace  d'un  criminel,  son  oncle,  en  6change  d'un  millier  de  se- 
quins, mais  qu'il  se  retira  lorsque  le  g6n6ral  lui  demanda  si  la 
grace  d'un  pareil  homme  ferait  honneur  a  la  patrie.  Bonaparte 
cite  ces  traits  dans  ses  Reflexions  sur  le  patriotisme  et  I'amour 
de  la  gloire,  et  bien  qu'il  narre  I'anecdote  en  d'autres  termes,  il 
a  certainement  la  page  de  Boswell  sous  les  yeux. 

Boswell  6crit  que  Rivarola  refusa  de  passer  aux  Genois  qui 
tenaient  ses  fils  prisonniers.  "  On  sera,  fait  dire  Boswell  a 
Rivarola,  oblig6  de  me  rendre  mes  fils,  malgr6  qu'on  en  ait,  et 
quant  aux  autres  offres  qui  me  sont  faites,  je  les  estime  comme 
un>n6ant,  en  comparaison  du  juste  engagement  dans  lequel  je 
suis  entr6."  Bonaparte  met  dans  la  bouche  de  Rivarola  les 
mots  suivants :  "  Quant  a  mes  fils,  il  faudra  bien  qu'on  me  les 
rende ;  je  considfere  le  reste  comme  indigne,  m'dtant  person- 
nel, et  incomparablement  au-dessous  des  engagements  que  j'ai 
contractus  avec  mes  compatriotes." 

Boswell  reproduisait  une  lettre  que  Rousseau  envoyait  a 
Deleyre  aprfes  le  trait6  de  la  France  avec  Genes  :  "  Si  vos  Fran- 
9ais,  disait  Jean-Jacques,  savaient  un  homme  libre  a  I'autre 
bout  du  monde,  je  crois  qu'ils  iraient  pour  le  seul  plaisir  de 
I'exterminer."  Dans  une  de  ses  nouvelles,  Bonaparte  nomme 
les  Fran^ais  "  ennemis  des  hommes  libres." 

Cette  influence  de  Boswell  fut  de  longue  dur6e.  En  1793, 
dans  une  petition  'a  la  municipalit6  d'Ajaccio,  Bonaparte 
assure  que  I'union  seule  peut  sauver  la  ville :  **  Notre  devise 
dit-il,  est  celle  que  prit  un  peuple  aujourd'hui  puissant :  nous 


LE  PATRIOTISME  CORSE  DE  NAPOLEON  BONAPARTE.       775 

p6rissons  si  nous  nous  heurtons."  Cette  maxime,  frangimur  si 
collidimur,  6tait  la  16gende  d'une  m^daille  hollandaise  qui  re- 
pr6sentait  deux  vases  de  terre  prte  de  se  toucher.  Napoleon 
I'a  trouv6e  dans  Boswell. 

Bonaparte  ne  faisait  pas  myst^re  de  ses  sentiments  corses  a 
ses  camarades  de  regiment.  A  Valence  et  a  Auxonne,  de  mftme 
qu'a  Brienne  et  a  TEcole  militaire  de  Paris,  il  entendit  quel- 
quefois  des  paroles  insultantes  pour  la  Corse.  On  le  traitait 
par  instants  comme  un  compatriote  de  trfes  fraiche  date.  Mais 
ces  railleries  et  ces  sarcasmes  ne  firent  que  rendre  plus  puissant, 
plus  intense  encore  son  amour  pour  sa  petite  patrie.  Un  jour, 
dans  un  cong6,  a  Ajaccio,  il  racontait  a  Pozzo  di  Borgo  ces 
souff ranees  passagferes  de  son  orgueil :  "Qu'ils  nous  d6daignent 
dans  leur  pays,  s'6criait-il,  mais  qu'ils  ne  viennent  pas  nous 
d6nigrer  et  nous  humilier  dans  nos  montagnes  ! " 

Lorsqu'en  1788,  a  Bastia,  il  fut  engag6,  selon  I'usage,  a  un 
diner  par  ses  camarades  du  corps  royal  de  rartillerie,  il  scandalisa 
ses  botes  par  les  effusions  de  son  patriotisme  local.  11  argu- 
mentait  sur  les  droits  des  nations  et  citait  la  nation  corse. 
"  Stupete,  gentes,  s'exclama  un  des  assistants,  y  a-t-il  done  une 
nation  corse  ?  "  Mais  T^tonnement  des  officiers  fut  au  comble 
lorsque  Bonaparte,  une  fois  pouss^  dans  Tentretien,  leur  parla 
des  Etats  de  Corse  dont  M.  de  Barrin  retardait  la  convocation. 
**  M.  de  Barrin,  dit  Napol6on,  suit  les  errements  de  son  pr6d6- 
cesseur  et  voudrait  priver  les  Corses  du  droit  de  ddib6rer  sur 
leurs  int^rdts."  Et  d'un  ton  mena^ant  il  ajouta:  "M.  de 
Barrin  ne  connait  pas  les  Corses  ;  il  verra  ce  qu'il  peuvent  1 " 
Les  officiers  le  regardferent  avec  surprise.  "  Est-ce  que,  r6pli- 
qua  Tun  d'eux,  vous  useriez  de  votre  6p6e  contre  le  repr6sentant 
du  roi  ?  "  Bonaparte  se  tut,  et,  a  son  d6part,  ses  camarades  le 
salu^rent  froidement. 

A  cette  6poque  de  sa  vie,  Napol6on  6tait  plus  Italien  que 
Fran^ais  :  n'6crit-il  pas  que  Paoli  est  un  des  plus  braves  hom- 
mes  de  Tltalie  moderne  ?  Mais  son  peuple  de  predilection 
est  I'Angleterre.  Les  officiers  fran9ais  d6testaient  alors  la 
Grande-Bretagne.  Un  cadet-gentilhomme  de  TEcole  militaire 
de  Paris,  condisciple  de  Napol6on,  tra^ait  sur  son  atlas  ces 
deux  vers  boiteux  et  na'ifs  : 


776  COSMOPOLIS. 

Eleve  de  Minerve,  favorise  de  Mars, 
Un  jour  je  domplerai  tes  leopards. 

Et  Gassendi,  ce  capitaine  du  regiment  de  La  F^re  qui 
rimaillait  k  ses  heures,  Gassendi,  d6sireux  de  suivre  d'Estaing 
et  de  d6barquer  sur  Tautre  bord  de  la  Manche,  repr6sentait 
I'Angleterre  effray6e  et  voyant  d6ja  sa  rivale 

Descendre  dans  les  ports,  et  sur  leurs  boulevards, 
Devant  les  lys  vainqueurs,  tomber  les  leopards. 

Napol6on  aime  TAngleterre  et  conservera  pour  elle  un  fond  de 
sympathie.  II  aura  beau  accabler  d'invectives  la  perfide  Al- 
bion, insulter,  en  1796,  ces  marchands  anglais  qui  demeurent 
strangers  aux  malheurs  de  la  guerre  et  sourient  avec  plaisir 
aux  maux  du  continent,  tonner  dans  ses  bulletins  contre  les 
laches  et  vils  oligarques  de  Londres,  assurer  que  les  vaisseaux 
britanniques  sont  le  refuge  des  traitres.  L'Angleterre  reste  a 
ses  yeux  la  nation  de  Newton  et  de  Locke.  II  la  citera  volon- 
tiers  comme  exemple  et  il  rappellera  qu'elle  n'a  pas  de  moines 
et  n'en  sent  pas  le  besoin.  II  reconnaitra  dans  la  conversation 
qu'elle  compte  le  plus  d'hommes  recommandables  par  I'ind^- 
pendance  et  la  noblesse  de  leur  caract^re.  II  aura  la  plus 
haute  opinion  de  Lord  Cornwallis  qui  signa  la  paix  d'Amiens, 
et  de  Lord  Saint  Helens  qui  signa  celle  de  P6tersbourg.  A 
Tile  d'Elbe,  il  verra  beaucoup  d'Anglais  et  les  trouvera  gauches, 
mal  tourn6s,  mais  plus  calmes,  plus  r6fl6chis  que  les  Frangais, 
et  il  d6couvrira  sous  leur  rude  6corce  des  id6es  justes  et  pro- 
fondes  ou  tout  au  moins  du  bon  sens.  Aprfes  Waterloo,  il  ira 
s'asseoir  au  foyer  du  peuple  britannique,  se  placer  sous  la  pro- 
tection des  loi  anglaises,  r6clamer  la  sauvegarde  du  prince- 
regent  comme  du  plus  g6n6reux  de  ses  ennemis.  11  croira 
m^me,  aprfes  la  reception  que  lui  font  les  Equipages  du  BelUro- 
phon  et  du  Northumberland,  que  la  simplicity  de  ses  mani^res, 
son  calme  et  un  je  ne  sais  quoi  ont  du  "  plaire  et  sympathiser 
avec  le  caractfere  anglais." 

C'est  de  Raynal,  de  Rousseau,  de  Boswell  que  lui  vient  cette 
sorte  de  penchant  pour  TAngleterre.  II  a  lu  dans  Raynal  que 
les  Anglais  n'ont  eu  que  des  fortes  id6es  et  qu'ils  prononcferent 
les  premiers  ce  seul  mot  qui  consacre  une  langue  :  la  tnajesU 
du  peuple.  II  s'est,  en  sa  jeunesse,  engou6  du  caractfere  de 
milord  Edouard  que  Jean-Jacques  avait  trac6  dans  sa  Nouvelk 


LE  PATRIOTISME  CORSE  DE  NAPOLEON  BONAPARTE.        777 

Helo  se  et  que  Joseph  Bonaparte  regardait  comme  un  module 
du  beau  id^I.  Il  a  feuillet^,  non  sans  Amotion,  la  relation  de 
r Anglais  Boswell  qui  d6crivait  Tile  et  son  peuple  et  ses  mceurs 
avec  tant  d'enthotwiasme.  II  se  souvient  des  secours  que  les 
Anglais  prodiguferent  aux  Corses  expatri6s  et  de  Taccueil  que 
les  habitants  de  Londres  firent  k  Paoli.  En  1790,  k  la  junte 
de  Bastia,  Bolgodere  ne  proposait-il  pas  de  remercier  la  nation 
anglaise  d'avoir  ouvert  ses  tr6sors  aux  amis  de  la  liberty,  et,  a 
rassembl6e  d'Orezza,  Pompei  ne  devait-il  pas  adresser  des 
actions  de  graces  a  TAngleterre  qui  savait  honorer  les  droits 
de  rhomme  et  qui,  par  tant  de  t^moignages  d'estime,  par  tant 
de  marques  de  munificence,  avait  adouci  pour  Paoli  les  ri- 
gueurs  de  Texil  ?  Massaria  ne  dit-il  pas  que  les  royalistes 
d'Ajaccio  lui  donnaient,  ainsi  qu'a  ses  deux  amis,  Joseph  et 
Napoldon  Bonaparte,  le  sobriquet  d'angloftiane  ? 

Cette  "  anglomanie  "  de  Napol6on  6clate  dans  un  fragment 
qui  met  en  scfene  Theodore  et  Walpole.  II  connaissait  la 
curieuse  histoire  du  baron  de  Neuhof,  ce  souverain  de  theatre, 
qui  se  fit  proclamer  roi  de  Corse  sous  le  nom  de  Theodore  et 
ceindre  d'une  couronne  de  laurier,  la  seule  que  les  pauvres 
insulaires  pussent  lui  oflfrir.  Cet  aventurier  6tait  mort  a  Lon- 
dres, aprfes  avoir  6t6  quelque  temps  enferme  sur  la  plainte  de 
ses  cr6anciers,  a  la  prison  du  Banc  du  roi,  et  on  lisait  sur  sa 
tombe,  dans  le  cimetifere  de  I'^glise  de  Sainte-Anne  de  West- 
minster, que  le  destin  lui  avait  donn6  un  royaume,  puis  refus6 
du  pain.  Ce  fut  Horace  Walpole  qui  rendit  Theodore  a  la 
liberty  :  il  ouvrit  en  sa  faveur  une  souscription  dont  le  produit 
paya  les  dettes  du  malheureux  roi.  Dans  le  fragment  Napoldon 
suppose  que  Theodore  6crit  a  Walpole  :  jusqu'alors  Theodore 
6tait  inconnu  dans  sa  prison  et  il  avait  encore  la  consolation 
d'etre  r6v6r6  par  les  infortun6s  qui  I'entouraient ;  c'6tait  lui 
que  ses  compagnons  d'esclavage  instruisaient  le  premier  de 
leurs  projets  de  d61ivrance  ;  c'6tait  lui  qu'ils  voulaient  mettre 
a  leur  t6te  lorsqu'ils  briseraient  leurs  chaines  ;  mais  Walpole 
leur  a  r6v616  ce  qu'6tait  Theodore,  et  Theodore  est  maintenant 
le  dernier  dans  leur  estime  :  "  Je  suis  Tobjet  de  leur  ris6e. 
Hommes  injustes !  J'ai  voulu  contribuer  au  bonheur  d'une 
nation.  J'y  ai  r6ussi  un  moment,  et  vous  m'admiriez.  Le  sort 
a  chang6  ;  je  suis  dans  un  cachot,  et  vous   me  m6prisez  ! " 


77^  COSMOPOLIS. 

Touche  de  compassion,  Walpole  ddivre  le  prisonnier  et  Tar- 
rache  a  rhumiliation  :  "  Vous  souffrez,  r6pond-il  a  Theodore, 
et  dtes  malheureux  ;  ce  sont  bien  deux  litres  pour  avoir  droit 
a  la  piti6  d'un  Anglais  ;  sortez  de  votre  prison  et  recevez  trois 
mille  livres  de  pension  pour  subsistance." 

La  meme  sympathie  pour  TAngleterre,  jointe  a  une  extreme 
aversion  pour  la  France,  se  manifeste  plus  vivement  encore 
dans  une  nouvelle  corse  qui  pourrait  s'intituler  Les  R^fugies  dc 
Gorgona.  Napol6on  imagine  qu'un  Anglais  a  du,  pendant  un 
voyage,  rehicher  en  vue  des  cotes  de  Corse  sur  Tile  escarp^e 
de  la  Gorgona,  "  61oignee  de  toute  terre  par  des  bras  de  mer 
immenses,  et  environn6e  de  rochers  contre  lesquels  les  vagues 
se  brisent  avec  fureur."  Dans  cette  ile  vivent  un  vieux  Corse 
et  sa  fille,  vetue  d'un  habit  masculin.  La  fille  essaie  durant  la 
nuit  de  bmler  TAnglais  vif  dans  sa  tente.  Mais  le  p6re  apprend 
la  nationality  de  T^tranger  ;  il  le  sauve,  lui  t^moigne  sa  joie,  le 
nomme  un  de  "  ces  Anglais  vertueux  qui  protfegent  les  Corses 
fugitifs,"  et  lui  conte  son  histoire.  II  a,  sous  les  ordres  de 
Paoli,  combattu  les  Fran9ais  qui  venaient  "  arm^s  du  fer  et  du 
flambeau  "  ;  il  a  lutt6  huit  ans  aprfes  la  d^faite  de  Paoli  ;  il  a 
vu  quarante  de  ses  corapagnons  "terminer  leur  vie  par  le 
supplice  des  criminels,"  son  pfere  massacre,  sa  mere  viol6e,  sa 
femme,  trois  de  ses  frferes  et  sept  de  ses  fils  pendus  sur  le  lieu 
meme,  sa  maison  incendi6e.  Dfes  lors,  la  Corse  6tait  pour  lui 
"  une  ile  proscrite  ou  des  tigres  r6gnaient."  11  a  fui  sur  la 
Gorgona  avec  une  fille  qui  lui  restait,  et  y  demeure  cach^  dans 
les  ruines  d'un  monastfere  parce  que  "le  paysage  est  conformea 
son  humeur."  Un  jour,  des  hommes  ont  d^barqu^  ;  ils  I'ont 
battu,  bafou6,  trait6  de  sauvage ;  ils  lui  ont  tir6  la  barbe : 
c'^taient  des  Fran9ais.  Sa  fille  les  a  chassis  a  coups  de  fusil. 
Un  autre  jour,  deux  vaisseaux  fran9ais  ont  p6ri  sur  la  cote ;  il 
a  tu6  tous  ceux  qui  s'^taient  6chapp6s  a  la  nage  ;  "  aprte  les 
avoir  secourus  comme  hommes,  nous  les  tuames  comme  Fran- 
gais."  Pourtant,  une  troisi^me  fois,  il  se  laisse  toucher.  11 
allume  un  feu  pour  guider  les  naufrag^s.  Mais  ce  sont  des 
Fran9ais  :  sitot  qu'il  savent  qu'ils  est  Corse,  qu'il  est  un  de  ces 
"  coquins  qu'il  faut  rouer,"  ils  Tenchainent  et  Temm^nent  avec 
sa  fille.  Heureusement,  ils  n'ont  rien  a  boire ;  ils  le  ddient, 
lui  promettent  la  liberty,  s'il  leur  trouve  de  Teau  potable ;  il 


LE   PARTIOTISME  CORSE  DE  NAPOLEON  BONAPARTE.       779 

frappe  de  son  stylet  les  deux  hommes  qui  raccompagnent, 
revient  au  navire,  d61ivre  sa  fille,  6gorge  les  matelotSy  traine 
leurs  corps  devant  Tautel  et  les  brule :  "ce  nouvel  encens  parut 
dtre  favorable  a  la  Divinit6." 

Mais  c'est  surtout  dans  deux  lettres  que  Napol6on  6crit  en 
1789,  Tune  a  Paoli,  I'autre  a  Giubega,  que  s'exhale  sa  haine  de 
la  domination  fran9aise.  En  un  langage  emphatique  qui 
rappelle  les  plus  mauvaises  pages  de  Raynal,  il  maudit  le  jour 
ou  "  p6rit  la  patrie/'  ou  "  trente  mille  Fran9ais,  vomis  sur  les 
cotes  de  la  Corse,  noyaient  le  trone  de  la  liberty  dans  des  flots 
de  sang/'  ou  Ton  n'entendait  que  "  les  cris  du  mourant "  et 
"  les  g6missements  de  Topprim^."  II  trace  le  plus  noir  tableau 
de  la  Corse  devenue  fran9aise  :  tous  les  emplois  que  le  droit 
naturel  destinait  aux  insulaires,  occup6s  par  des  6trangers  de 
moeurs  m6prisables  et  de  conduite  abjecte,  par  des  Fran9ais 
qui  sont  T^curae  du  royaume  et  que  d6savoueraient  leurs  com- 
patriotes  d'outre-mer  ;  le  militaire  "  donnant  un  libre  essor  a 
son  humeur  despotique,  ne  trouvant  aucune  digue  et  inondant 
de  ses  d6bordements  jusqu'au  sommet  le  plus  61ev6  des  mon- 
tagnes"  ;  un  tribunal  supreme  sans  force  ni  6nergie  ;  des  cours 
inf6rieures  ou  decide  un  seul  homme,  ignorant  de  la  langue,  des 
coutumes  et  des  lois  du  pays  ;  des  magistrats  qui  ne  jugent 
que  pour  avoir  du  pain  et  jouir  d'un  luxe  qu'ils  n'ont  pas  sur 
le  continent ;  des  financiers  sans  probit6  ;  le  "  chef  des  publi- 
cains  "  usurpant  les  droits  des  Etats  et  de  la  commission  des 
Douze  ;  un  subd6)6gu6,  "  vil  agent  d'un  intendant "  et  "  le 
dernier  de  ses  commis/'  pr6sidant  aux  Etats  provinciaux. 
Quoi,  les  Corses  baissent  la  t^te  sous  le  triple  joug  du  soldat^ 
du  robin  et  du  maltotier,  et  ces  trois  classes  d'hommes,  si  diflf6- 
rentes  de  caractfere,  s'unissent  pour  le  m6priser  I  "  Etre  m6pris6 
par  ceux  qui  ont  la  force  de  I'administration  en  main,  n'est-ce 
pas  la  tyrannic  la  plus  affreuse  ?  L'infortun6  P6ruvien  qu'^gor- 
geait  le  f6roce  Espagnol,  eprouvait-il  une  vexation  plus  ulc6- 
rante  ?  " 

(A  suivre.) 


LETTRES   INEDITES 

DE    JOHN    STUART    MILL 

A 

GUSTAVE   D'EICHTHAL 


PUBLIEES   PAR   EUGENE   D'EICHTHAL. 


Les  lettres  qu'on  va  lire  sont — aprfes  une  lacune  de  plusieurs 
ann^es,  pendant  lesquelles  nous  n'avons  pas  retrouv6  de  coire- 
spondance  entre  les  deux  amis — la  suite  de  celles  qui  ont  paru 
en  anglais  dans  les  num6ros  d'avril-mai  1897  et  f6vrier  1898  de 
COSMOPOLIS.  Celles-ci  ont  6t6  6crites  en  franQais  par  Stuart 
Mill.  II  avait  pass^  plusieurs  ann6es  de  sa  jeunesse  en  France, 
et,  a  partir  de  1859,  il  revenait  chaque  hiver  a  Avignon,  auprte 
du  tombeau  de  la  compagne  a  laquelle  il  a,  dans  son  Auio- 
biographie,  consacr^  de  si  6mouvantes  pages.  Notre  langue  lui 
6tait  done  tout  a  fait  familifere. 

La  frequence  m^me  des  voyages  de  Stuart  Mill  en  France  et 
les  nombreux  entretiens  qu'il  y  eut  avec  mon  pfere  eurent  pour 
effet  de  diminuer  Tampleur  de  leur  ancienne  correspondance. 
Souvent,  les  lettres  de  Mill,  nagufere  si  d6velopp6es,  sont 
devenues  de  simples  billets,  parmi  lesquels  nous  avons  du 
faire  un  choix.  Nous  n'avons  reproduit  que  les  lettres  qui 
touchent  a  des  faits  importants  ou  a  des  id6es  g6n6rales. 
"  Ceux  chez  qui  tout  ce  qui  arrive,  6crivait  Mill  a  mon  pfere,  se 
lie  a  une  conception  g6n6rale  du  d6veloppement  humain,  et 
c'est  notre  cas  a  nous  deux,  ceux-la  ont  toujours  quelque  chose 
a  dire  Tun  a  I'autre." 


LETTRES  INEDITES  DE  J.  S.  MILL  A  GUSTAVE  D'EICHTHAL.     781 

Les  derniers  billets  de  Mill  ont  &t&  adress^  k  mon  pdre  k 
Londres,  ou  il  passa  quelques  mois  pendant  la  fin  de  la  guerre 
de  1870  et  la  Commune,  heureux  de  retrouver,  au  milieu  de  ces 
douloureux  6v^nements,  dans  des  rapports  presque  quotidiens 
et  dans  des  conversations  oil  ils  eurent  "  beaucoup  k  dire  Tun 
a  I'autre/'  celui  avec  lequel  il  avait,  en  1828,  contract6  une 
amiti6  qui  devait  durer  jusqu'a  la  mort  de  Stuart  Mill  (1873). 

Comme  pour  la  p6riode  pr6c6dente,  les  lettres  de  mon  p6re 
n'ont  pas  6t6  retrouv6es, 

Eugene  d'Eichthal. 


XXI 

Blackheath  Park,  Keniy  le  30  mars  1864. 

Mon  CHER  d'Eichthal, 

Je  serais  bien  aise  de  lire  la  pr6face  de  Saint- 
Simon,  sachant  qu' Augusta  Comte  a  6t6  injuste  envers  lui, 
comme  en  general  envers  tous  ceux  qui  avaient  cess6  de  lui 
plaire.  Du  reste,  ne  vous  donnez  pas  la  peine  de  la  faire 
copier  ;  d'abord  parce  que  je  ne  puis  pas  encore  m'occuper  du 
travail  sur  Comte,  et  je  pense  bien  que  je  vous  reverrai 
auparavant ;  secondement,  parce  que  dans  ce  travail  il  sera 
peu  question  de  la  biographic  de  Comte,  d'autant  plus  que 
ceux  qui  disputent  autour  de  son  tombeau  sont  tellement  en 
d6saccord  sur  les  faits,  que  je  d6sespfere  d'arriver  a  la  v6rit6. 

J'ai  trouv6  excellente  la  lettre  de  M.  Gu6roult,  et  j'ai  vu 
avec  grand  plaisir  que  vous  vous  proposez  de  la  faire  suivre 
par  d'autres  lettres  ou  articles  sur  le  Saint-Simonisme. 

Tout  a  vous 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XXII 

Avignon,  le  5  mai  1865. 

Je  voudrais  bien,  mon  cher  d'Eichthal,  pouvoir 
r6pondre  a  votre  lettre  comme  M.  Blackie,  par  une  lettre  en 
grec  :...ITo\Xoi}  76  koI  hel'  iirel  iravro^  /iaWoi/,  &  <l>tK€,  jSovXolfiijp 
av.  Assur6ment  la  nation  grecque  vous  doit  de  la  reconnais- 
sance ainsi  qu'a  M.  Duruy.    Du  reste,  elle  me  semble  d6ja  bien 


782  C06MOPOLIS. 

avanc^e  dans  le  chemin  de  la  restauration  gramtnaticale  de  son 
ancienne  langue.  Jugez  de  tna  satisfaction  quand  j'ai  vu,  dans 
la  reaction  de  sa  nouvelle  Constitution,  qu'elle  avait  repris 
possession  complete  du  cas  datif.  Apr&s  cela,  11  ne  lui  reste 
gufere  d  reprendre  que  Tinfinitif,  chose  trfes  importante,  mais 
nullemeiit  plus  difficile  a  regagner. 

Votre  nouvelle  brochure  ne  m'est  pas  encore  parvenue,  mais 
un  paquet  va  venir  qui  la  contiendra.  Je  tacherai  de  faire  en 
sorte  qu'il  soit  question  de  toutes  les  deux,  non  seulement  dans 
la  Revue  de  Westminster,  mais  peut-dtre  ailleurs...  J'essaierai 
de  vous  voir  en  traversant  Paris,  dans  deux  mois  d'ici,  bien 
que  je  n'y  compte  rester  que  quelques  heures. 

Avez-vous  vu  Tarticle  du  dernier  num6ro  de  la  Revue  de 
Westminster  sur  I'Evangile  de  Saint-Jean  ?  II  ne  vous  ofFre 
probablement  rien  de  nouveau,  puisqu'il  se  donne  comma 
r6sum6  des  travaux  de  I'^cole  de  Tubingue. 

Tout  a  vous 

I-  S.  Mill. 

XXIII 
Saint'V^ratiy  Avignon,  le  23  ntai  1865. 

MON   CHER   D'ElCHTHAL, 

Merci  de  votre  brochure*  et  des  deux  journaux 
grecs  de  Trieste.  La  premifere  me  fait  d6sirer  la  completion 
(sic)  de  I'ouvrage  dont  elle  forme  le  commencement.  Les 
derniers  montrent  bien  Tenthousiasme  que  votre  proposition 
excite  trfes  naturellement  chez  les  esprits  hell^niques.  Je  lis 
assez  facilement  le  grec  moderne,  a  quoi,  en  eflfet,  il  suffit  de 
poss6der  une  certaine  connaissance  de  la  langue  ancienne  et 
d'avoir  lu  une  grammaire  quelconque  de  la  moderne;  car 
dans  le  vocabulaire,  tout  ce  qui  n'est  pas  grec  ancien  est  une 
imitation  assez  drole  des  mots  occidentaux  et  surtout  fran^ais. 
Je  n'ai  jamais  ri  de  meilleur  coeur  que  lorsqu'a  ma  premise 
visite  a  la  poste  aux  lettres  d'Athfenes,  je  vis  devant  moi  une 
affiche  commengant  par  ces  mots  :  'H  yevncq  hievOwaix;  r&v 
^  ETiXrjpiKoop  aTfjLo^Ka^euap  EtSovotel. 

II  serait  sans  doute  difficile  de  faire  dans  la  langue  ordinaire 
la  restauration  grammaticale  que  vous  proposez,  mais  aprte 

*  Sur  Vusagc  pratique  tic  In  Itin/^ue  grrcquc  commc  langue  inUrnationalc. — E.  d'E. 


LETTRES  INEDITES  DE  J.  S.  MILL  A  GUSTAVE  D'EICHTHAL.   783 

tout  ce  que  les  Grecs  ont  d6ja  fait  dans  ce  genre  il  ne  faut 
desesperer  de  rien.  D'ailleurs  ^instruction  que  regoivent  a 
peu  prfes  tous  les  enfants'(au  moins  males)  dans  Tancienne 
langue,  rend  ces  changements  beaucoup  moins  difficiles, 
puisque  les  formes  restaur^es  seraient  tout  d'abord  comprises. 

...  Ce  serait  une  bonne  fortune  pour  moi  que  de  vous  voir 
a  Avignon,  mais,  pour  le  moment,  je  n'en  ai  guere  I'espoir,  car 
je  me  propose  de  partir  en  cinq  jours  pour  une  tourn^e  dans 
les  C6vennes  et  en  Auvergne,  aprfes  quoi  je  ne  serai  ici  que 
pendant  deux  ou  trois  jours  au  commencement  de  juillet, 
avant  de  partir  pour  I'Angleterre,  ou  je  passe  habituellement  la 
moitie  de  Tannee.  L'61ection  de  Westminster  n'est  pour  rien 
dans  mon  retour.  Cette  Election  se  fait  absolument  sans  moi. 
je  ne  compte  pas  du  tout  sur  le  succfes,  mais  s  il  arrive,  il  en 
sera  d'autant  plus  honorable  pour  moi  et  pour  les  61ecteurs. 

Je  vous  serre  la  main. 

J.  S.  Mill. 
XXVI 
Saiiit'Verau,  Arigiion,  Ic  2O  oclobfr  1865. 

MON    CHER    D'EiCHTHAL, 

je  vous  remercie  tres  sincerement  dc  Teiivoi  dc 
\  otre  travail  sur  la  question  des  origines  americaines. 

...Vous  m'avez  6crit  de  Vienne  une  bienaimable  lettre,  a 
laquelle  je  n'ai  pas  r^pondu  alors  a  cause  de  Tmcertitude  de 
votre  adresse  et  encore  plus  par  la  multitude  de  mes  occupa- 
tions. Cette  dernifere  raison  m'a  6galement  empech6  de 
remercier  votre  frere  du  bon  et  amical  billet  qu'il  m'6crivit 
lors  de  mon  Election,  je  vous  prie  tous  deux  d'agr6er  mes 
excuses  et  de  croire  que  je  n'en  suis  pas  moins  sensible  a  ces 
marques  d'amiti6.  Plus  on  s'avance  dans  la  vie,  et  plus  on 
tient  aux  vieilles  amiti6s,  meme  lorsque  I'doignement  physique 
en  fait  une  jouissance  surtout  de  pens6e  et  de  conscience. 

Je  me  r6jouis  que  vous  vous  occupez  fortement  de  votre 

SUjean,    Si  cette  partie  est  relativement  a  la  hauteur  de  la 

premiere,  vous  aurez  fait  un  des  plus  importants  ouvrages  sur 

un  des  plus  grands  sujets. 

Tout  a  vous 

J.  S.  Mill. 


784  COSMOPOLIS. 

XXV 11 

Ce  20  aout  1866. 

MON   CHER   D'ElCHTHAL, 

Votre  lettre  n'est  parvenue  a  Londres  qu'apres 
mon  depart.  Depuis  bientot  huit  jours  je  suis  ici  et  bien 
content,  je  vous  jure,  de  pouvoir  revenir  a  des  occupations 
tranquilles.  La  vie  parlementaire  fatigue  et  dissipe  I'esprit 
toujours,  pour  Texercer  quelquefois. 

C'eut  €t&  un  vrai  plaisir  pour  moi  que  de  causer  avec  vous 
et  de  comparer  nos  impressions. 

Je  suis  tr^  indifferent  auxpens^es  de  ceux  pour  qui  les 
6vfenements  du  moment  ne  sont  que  des  6vfenements  d'un 
moment ;  quand  meme  ce  moment  s'appellerait  un  sitele. 
Mais  ceux  chez  qui  tout  ce  qui  arrive  se  lie  a  une  conception 
g^n^rale  du  d6veloppement  humain  —  et  c'est  notre  cas  a  tous 
deux  —  ceux-la  ont  toujours  quelq*»ae  chose  a  dire  Tun  a  Tautre. 
Esp6rons  que  ['occasion  nous  en  viendra. 

Bien  des  amities  a  votre  frfere  et  a  Duveyrier,  dont  la  sante 

alt^ree  me  fait  de  la  peine. 

Votre  bien  d^voue 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XXVIII- 

Si'V^ran,  20  septembre  1866. 

...ije  suis  a  St-V6ran  et  je  comptey  rester  jusqu'a 

la  fin  de  Tannte.    Vous  serez  le  bienvenu,  si  vous  voulez  bien 

y  venir.     U  serait  bon  de  m'avertir  quelques  jours  d'avance, 

afin  que  je   ne  sois  pas  expose  a  choisir,  sans  le  savoir,  le 

moment  de  votre  arriv6e  pour  une  de  ces  excursions  que  j'ai 

rhabitude  de  faire. 

...  Vous  £tes  maintenant  un  des  plus  anciens  amis  qui  me 

restent.    Nous  avons  non  seulement  beaucoup  d'id^es,  mais 

encore  beaucoup  de  souvenirs  en  commun,  a  partir  de  cclui 

de  notre  jeune  ami  Eyton  Tooke,  que  nous  perdimes  d'une 

mani^re  si   tragique,  il  y  a   36    ans.     J'ai    toujours    mieux 

aim6  les  vieux  amis  que  les  nouveaux,  et  vous    ne  faites 

pas  exception  a  la  r^gle... 

Votre  affcctionn6 

J.  S.  Mill. 


LETTRES  INEDITES  DE  J.  S.  MILL  A  GUSTAVE  D'EICHTHAL.    785 

XXIX 

Blackheath  Park,  Kent,  le  8  mars  1867. 

MON  CHER  D'ElCHTHAL, 

Je  viens  dedonner  une  lettre  de  recommandation 
auprfes  de  vous  a  M.  John  Plummer,  qui  se  rend  a  Paris 
comme  representant  de  plusieurs  associations  ouvriferes,  dans 
I'espoir  d'obtenir  pour  elles  certaines  facilit6s,  dont  je  ne  sais 
pas  pr6cis6ment  la  nature,  par  rapport  a  I'Exposition. 

M.  Plummer  est  un  homme  remarquable.  II  a  6t6  long- 
temps  simple  ouvrier  dans  une  petite  ville  de  province.  II  a 
commence  a  6crire  sous  la  stimulation  d'une  vive  indignation 
contre  certains  proc6d6s  des  Trades-Unions,  De  la,  il  a  toujours 
6t6  en  progrfes  ;  il  est  maintenant  6crivain  et  journaliste,  et  ses 
Merits  sur  toutes  les  questions  qui  int6ressent  particuli^rement 
la  classe  ouvrifere  sont  remarquables  par  leur  bon  sens,  par 
leur  philanthropie  6clairee,  et  meme  par  la  puret6  de  leur  style. 
Malgr^  les  d^savantages,  non  seulement  de  sa  position,  mais 
de  sa  personne,  car  il  est  boiteux  et  un  peu  sourd,  il  a  une 
influence  considerable  parmi  les  classes  ouvri^res,  surtout  en 
matifere  sociale  et  6conomique ;  car  quoique  radical,  il  s'occupe 
moins  de  politique  que  des  questions  d'6ducation  et  de  progr^s 
moral  et  intellectuel.  Je  suis  sur  que  vous  ne  le  connaitrez  pas 
sans  6prouver  pour  lui  un  vif  int6ret ;  et  si  vous  pouviez  I'aider 
a  obtenir  ce  qu'il  d6sire,  j'en  serais  vraiment  reconnaissant, 

J'ai  vu,  hier,  monsieur  votre  fils,  pendant  un  quart  d'heure  a 

la  Chambre.     Je  compte  causer  avec  lui  plus  au  long  a  son 

retour  de  Liverpool. 

Votre  affectionn6 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XXX 

Blackheath  Park,  Kent,^juillet  1867. 

...  Voussavez  ce  qu'est  la  vie  parlementaire,  dte 
qu'on  la  prend  au  s6rieux,  et  vous  concevez  jusqu'a  quel  point 
elle  prete  a  la  correspondance...  J'applaudis  a  votre  Association 
pour  I'encouragement  des  6tudes  grecques  en  France,  et  puisque 
vous  croyez  que  Tadh^sion  d'un  6tranger  peut  servir  a  quelque 
chose,  je  vous  prie  de  proposer  mon  nom,  et  je  vous  ferai 
parvenir    par   la  premifere  occasion  la  cotisation  annuelle.      II 


786  COSMOPOLlS, 

n'y  a  guere  lieu,  quant  a  present,  a  quelque  chose  de  semblable 
en  Angleterre,  ou  les  6tudes  grecques  sont  sufiisamment 
encouragees.  II  est  vrai  que  les  m6thodes  d'enseignement  ont 
besoin  d'une  r6forme  radicale,  mais  les  savants  et  les  profes- 
seurs  les  plus  6clair6s  y  travaillent  .d6ja,  et  je  crois  que  nous 
sommes  a  cet  6gard  en  voie  de  progres, —  un  peu  lent,  a  la 
verity,  comme  d'ordinaire  dans  ce  pays-ci. 

Maintenant  laissez-moi  vous  t^moigner  le  plaisir  veritable 
que  m'a  donn6  la  noble  protestation  que  vous  avez  publiee 
contre  la  recrudescence  de  Tesprit  guerrier  et  des  haines 
nationales  dont  la  France  nagufere  semblait  menac6e.*  Vous 
avez  6t6  presque  le  premier  a  vous  prononcer  en  ce  moment 
critique,  et  ce  fut  pour  moi  une  grande  joie  que  de  voir  avec 
quelle  6nergie  la  voix  d'une  grande  partie  de  la  nation  a 
r6pondu  a  cet  appel.  On  ne  pourra  plus  d^sormais  accuser  la 
nation  fran9aise  de  velleites  guerriferes  et  perturbatrices. 
Quoique  dans  beaucoup  d'esprits  Thonneur  national  reste 
encore  trop  attache  a  la  reputation  d'etre  puissant  pour  nuire  aux 
autres  peuples,  il  y  a  evidemment  tres  peu  de  Fran9ais  qui 
d^sirent  se  servir  de  cette  puissance. 

Tout  a  vous 

j.  S.  Mill. 

XXXI 

Avignon,  9  octobre  1867. 

. . .  je  vous  f61icite  de  I'initiative  que  vous  avez  prise 
dans  ces  deux  mouvements,celui  des  Etudes  grecques  et  celui  de 
lapaix.  J'esp^re  beaucoup  plus  de  la  Soci6t6  Passy  que  de  celle 
qui  s'est  tant  remu6e  a  Genfeve.  Quand  on  se  r6unit  pour 
precher  la  paix,  il  faudrait  savoir  se  taire  pour  le  moment  sur 
la  diversit6  de  ses  opinions  politiques. 

Vous  avez  bien  jug6  le  r6sultat  de  la  campagne  r^formiste 
de  cette  ann6e  en  Angleterre.  Nous  avons  fait  un  grand  pas 
en  avant,  quand  personne  ne  s'attendait  a  un  aussi  grand. 
Mais  lorsque  la  tendance  g^n^rale  des  choses  est  dans  un 
certain  sens,  les  int6rets  meme  6goistes  trouvent  quelquefois 
leur  compte  a  hater  le  mouvement.    Vous  dites  trfes  bien  que 

•  A  propos  dc  I'affairc  dii  Luxembourg  dans  uiie  Itrttrc  au  journal  1c  Trw/.* 
— E.  d'E. 


LETTRES  INEDITES  DK  J.  S.  MILL  A  GUSTAVE  D'KICHTHAL.   787 

"quand  les  gens  ont  T^galit^et  la  responsabilit6,  ilsdeviennent 
lout  autres."  C'est  ce  qui  me  fait  hater  de  mes  voeux  le  suflfrage 
universel,  et  hitter  pour  y  faire  comprendre  les  femmes,  qui  en 
ont  certes  le  plus  grand  besoin. 

Votrc  affection nc 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XXXII 

All  I*  noil,  10  nuii  1870. 

...  Vous  avez  ete  heureux, c'est-a-dire  clairvoyant, 
dans  vos  previsions  politiques  au  commencement  de  la  crise 
actuelle,  et  c'est  la  une  forte  raison  pour  ajouter  foi  a  vos 
predictions  d'aujourd'hui.  Cependant  j'ai  grande  envie  de 
savoir  sur  quoi  repose  votre  supposition  que  Tissue  de  la 
situation  actuelle  sera  la  republique.  Viendra-t-elle  par  un 
coup  de  main  de  la  classe  ouvrifere  de  Paris  et  des  grandes 
villes  ?  Alors  tout  depend  de  la  fid61ite  des  soldats,  qui-sont 
beaucoup  plus  nombreux  et  mieux  armes  et  qui  seront  mieux 
commandos  que  dans  les  revolutions  precedentes.  Ou  bien, 
croyez-vous  que  les  electeurs  apprendront  a  nommer  des 
deputes  republicains  ?  Cela  me  semble  fort  douteux,  en  ce 
qui  regarde  les  campagnes.  Car,  quoique  les  paysans  desirent, 
selon  toute  apparence,  un  gouvernement  liberal,  I'election  des 
maires,  etc.,  je  crois  que  toutes  les  fois  qu'on  leur  fera  croire 
qu'ils  ont  a  choisir  entre  Napoleon  et  la  republique  socialiste, 
ils  voteront  pour  Napol6on  ;  et  il  faut  avouer  que  les  republi- 
cains socialistes  ne  font  rien  pour  les  rassurer. 

Votre  tout  d^voue 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XXXIII 

Avignon,  le  iJ^niai  1870. 

MON  CHER  D'EiCHTHAI-, 

je  vous  remercie  bien  des  explications  que  vous 
m'avez  donn6es  sur  votre  prediction  politique.  Maintenanl  que 
je  la  cnmprends  mieux,  j'en  reconnais  ais6ment  la  justesse. 
I'avais  d'abord  cru  que  vous  vous  attendiez  a  un  denouement 
r6publicain  beaucoup  plus  prompt.  Je  crois  avec  vous  que  le 
progrfes  de  I'opinion  est  dans  le  sens  des  convictions  r^publi- 

VOL.   IX.— NO.  XXVII.  12 


788  COSMOPOLIS. 

caines,  et  cela  sous  une  forme  plus  elev6e  et    plus  profonde 

que  tout   ce  qu'on  entendait  par  ce  mot  du  temps  de  notre 

jeunesse.      Vous  avez   assists  au  berceau    de    ces     nouveaux 

elements  par  votre  participation  au  mouvement  Saint-Simonien, 

et  ma  lettre  de  1831,  dont  vous  m'avez  envoy6  la  copie,  montrc 

que  dcs  lors  j'ai  pleinement  reconnu   Timportance  europeenne 

de  ce  mouvement.     Mais  Topinion  nepeut  etre  assez  forte  pour 

pr6valoir  sur  les  obstacles  que  lorsqu'elle  sera  devenue  assez 

generate  pour  gagner  I'arm^e.    Tant  qu'il  y  aura  sept  millions 

d'ignorants    pour  voter  des   plebiscites   de  confiance,    et  un 

million  d'hommes  arm6s   prcts   a  ob^ir  aux  ordres  de  leurs 

chefs,  il  mc  semble  que  nous  sommcs  encore  tr6s  61oignes  du 

but  que  sans  doute  on  finira  par  atteindre. 

Je  vous  envoie  une  lettre  adress6e  a  M.  Hughes,  membre  de 

la  Chambre  des  Communes,  qui  a  pris  une  part  tres  active  dans 

le  mouvement  coop6ratif  depuis  son  commencement,  ainsi  que 

dans  la  question  des  Trades  Unions.    Hughes  pourra  faire  con- 

naitre  a  votre  fils  non  seulement  M.  Mundella,  mais  la  plupart 

de   ceux   qui   ont   jou6   un   role  utile  dans  ces  questions,   y 

compris    les    chefs    les      plus    intelligents     des    associations 

ouvricres. 

Votre  toujours  devou6  et  aflfectioniie 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XXXIV 

Blackheath  Park^  Kent,  le  ly  aoui  1870. 

MON    CHKR    D'EICHTHAL, 

Merci  d'avoir  pensc  a  moi  dans  un  temps  si 
douloureux.  Depuis  longtemps  je  suis  arrive  a  la  triste  con- 
viction que,  malgr6  Tincontestable  r6alit6  des  progres  modernes, 
nous  nc  sommes  pas  encore  a  I'abri  des  grands  malheurs  et 
des  grands  crimes  que  notre  sifecle  se  flattait  d'etre  parvenu  a 
bannir  de  la  terre.  Je  plains  profond6ment  le  peuple  fran^ais 
qui  n'est  pas  responsable  de  tout  ceci,  qui  n'aime  pas  et  n'a  pas 
voulu  la  guerre,  et  qui  est  condamn^  a  la  payer  du  meilleur  de 
son  sang,  et  peut-etre  d'une  humiliation  nationale  la  plus 
difficile  a  supporter.  •  Pourvu  que  I'Europe,  et  surtout  la 
France,  apprenne  de  ces  tristes  6venements  que  lorsqu'un 
peuple  abdiquc   la   direction   de   ses  propres  destinies  et  st 


LETTRES  INEDITES  DE  J.  S.  MILL  A  GUSTAVE  D'EICHTHAL.   789 

resigne  a  ce  qu'un  gouvernement  fasse  de  lui  un  simple 
instrument  de  sa  volont6,  il  est  condamn^  a  supporter  toutes 
les  consequences  de  ce  qu'il  a  laisse  faire  en  son  nom  ;  et 
qu'un  gouvernement  qui  par  les  conditions  de  son  existence  a 
besoin  de  tout  ce  qu'il  y  a  de  plus  malhonnete  et  de  plus 
corrompu  dans  le  pays,  finit  par  etre  tromp6  par  eux,  —  au 
point  que  meme  son  appui  de  predilection,  Tadministration 
militaire,  se  trouve  pourrie  et  en  decomposition  au  moment  du 
besoin. 

Quelles  que  puissent  etre  pour  la  France  les  suites  imm^diates 
de  ces  evenements,  il  ne  lui  faudra  pas  beaucoup  d'ann^es  pour 
redevenir  tout  aussi  grande  qu'auparavant.  Mais  elle  devra  se 
contenter  d'etre  Tune  des  grandes  puissances  de  I'Europe, 
sans  pretendre  a  etre  la  seule  ou  meme  la  premiere  I  II  lui 
faudra  reconnaitre,  pour  les  relations  internationales  comme 
pour  celles  de  la  vie  civile,  la  regie  de  I'egalite.  La  pretention 
d'un  pays  quelconque  a  etre  tellement  au-dessus  des  autres  que 
rien  d'important  ne  se  fasse  sans  le  consulter,  ne  peut  plus  se 
soutenir  aujourd'hui,  et  la  France  devrait  voir  dans  la  repudia- 
tion universelle  d'une  telle  pretention  le  triomphe  du  principe 
qui  fait  sa  propre  gloire. 

J'espere  qu'au  moins  vous  n'aurez  pas  d'autre  malheur  que 
le  desastre  public  a  deplorer  et  que  la  guerre  epargnera  toute 
votre  famille.  Je  suis  arrive  ici  huit  ou  dix  jours  avant  la 
declaration  de  guerre,  alors  qu'un  pareil  coup  semblait  presque 
aussi  peu  probable  que  la  destruction  de  Paris  par  un  tremble 
ment  de  terre.  La  rapidite  foudroyante  des  grands  evene- 
ments  d'aujourd'hui  n'est  pas  ce  qu'ils  ont  de  moins  etonnant. 

Votre  toujours  affectionn6 

J.  S.  Mill. 

XXXV. 

Hlackheath  Park,  Kent,  Ic  21  mai  1871. 

Je  suis  charme  que  vous  ayez  assiste  au  meeting 

dc  r Association  et  qu'il  vous  ait  interesse 

11  est  vrai  que  le  defaut  d'instruction  generale  et  surtout  de 
connaisances  historiques,  condamne  la  plupart  des  ouvriers 
qui  sont  des  hommes  politiques  a  une  certaine  etroitesse  de 
vues,  meme  lorsque  leurs  idees  sont  foncierement  bonnes.     II 


790  COSMOPOLIS. 

n'y  aura  de  remfede  a  cela  que  graduelletnent  par  le  progres  de 
Tenseignement  populaire.  J'ai  re9u  de  M.  Odger  une  lettre 
ou  il  me  remercie  de  lui  avoir  fait  faire  voire  connaissance  et 
de  lui  avoir  procure  une  conversation  tr^s  int^ressante  avec 
vous. 

Je  partage  tout  a  fait  votre  avis  sur  les  baux  a  long  terme 
que  TEtat  devTait  donner  lorsque  des  terres  a  sa  disposition 
sont  demand6es  pour  quelque  entreprise  utile,  et  je  crois  que 
ce  systeme  suffirait  pour  donner  une  juste  recompense  a  la 
pr6voyance  dans  cette  sorte  d'affaires. 

Mais  outre  les  accroissements  de  valeur  locaux  et  incertains 
qui  dependent  du  succes  d'une  speculation,  il  y  a  un  accrois- 
sement  g^n^ral  qui  ne  depend  que  de  la  prosp6rit6  croissante 
du  pays,  et  c'est  celui-la  que  TAssociation  revendique  le  droit 
d'intercepter  au  profit  de  la  nation. 

J'ai  vu  M.  Wolowski.  Comme  il  est  acharn^  centre  tous 
ceux  qui  prennent  part  au  mouvement  de  Paris  !  C'est  la 
mesure  de  rexasp6ration,  naturelle  peut-etre,  mais  tres  regret- 
table, que  cette  malheureuse  guerre  civile  a  d€]k  engendr6e... 

Tout  a  vous 

J.  S.  Mill. 


REVUE    DU    MOIS. 


L' ACCIDENT  auquel  le  marquis  de  Salisbury  a  si  heureusement 
6chapp6  a  l'entr6e  de  son  pare  de  Hatfield,  aurait  peut-etre 
frapp6  un  ancien,  adonn6  a  la  superstition,  comme  symbolique. 
Cette  porte,  qui  au  lieu  de  s'ouvrir  a  deux  battants  devant  le 
legitime  propri6taire  du  chateau  s'abat  sur  sa  voiture  et  la 
coupe  en  deux,  ne  laisse  pas  d'etre  d'assez  mauvais  augure. 
Sans  doute  le  premier  ministre  a  6chapp6  sain  et  sauf  aux 
suites  de  cet  accident  qui  aurait  pu  6tre  mortel.  Sans  doute, 
hi  nouvelle  du  danger  qu'il  a  couru  lui  a  valu,  non  eulement 
de  la  part  de  la  Reine  et  de  ses  collogues,  mais  de  celle  du  gros 
de  son  parti  et  du  public  impartial  des  marques  sincferes  et 
spontan6s  d'int6r6t  et  de  sympathie.  II  n'en  demeure  pas  moins 
que  le  noble  lord  n'est  gufere  I'objet  des  faveurs  de  I'aveugle 
fortune,  que  voila  la  seconde  ou  la  troisifeme  fois  depuis  un 
peu  plus  d'un  an  qu'il  est  en  danger  de  sa  vie  et  qu'il  n'en  doit 
la  preservation  qu'a  un  hasard  providential  du  dernier 
moment. 

Tout  cela,  par  malheur,  s'accorde  trop  avec  les  innombrables 
disgraces  inflig6es  a  la  politique  6trang6re  de  rh6ritier  des 
Cecil  pour  qu'on  ne  soit  pas  tent6  d'y  voir  quelque  chose  de 
plus  qu'une  malchance  ordinaire  et  de  supplier  respectueuse- 
ment  Thomme  d'Etat  en  butte  a  tant  d'accidents  priv6s  et  de 
(16convenances  publiques  d'aller  chercher  dans  la  retraite  avec 
hi  s6curit6  de  ses  jours  un  meilleur  succ^s  pour  TAngleterre- 
Quel  contraste  avec  I'avdnement  radieux  du  ministfere  Salisbury 
en  1894  !  Alors  M.  Curzon  6tait  a  peine  ridicule  en  c616brant 
avec  emphase  le  bonheur  d'un  pays  enfin  confi6  a  un  gouverne- 
ment  de  tons  les  talents  et  sur  d'avance  de  voir  toutes  les 
questions  se  r6soudre  a  son  profit,  toutes  les  crises  s'apaiser^ 


792  COSMOPOLIS. 

sous  rinfluence  bienfaisante  d'hommes  d'Etat  provideniiek ! 
Depuis  lors  le  destin  a  paru  s'appliquer  a  infliger  le  plus  cruel 
des  dementis — et  le  plus  constant — a  cet  optimisme  dc 
courtisan.  Sur  tous  les  points — en  Orient,  en  Europe,  en 
Chine,  en  Afrique — le  cabinet  de  St-James  a  vu  naitre  et 
s'aggraver  les  diff^rends,  s'eloigner  les  solutions  pacifiques, 
s'amonceler  et  grossir  les  nuages  sombres,  6clater  les  tempdtes, 
se  multiplier  les  naufrages.     Q'a  et6  une  vraie  s6rie  a  la  noire. 

Aujourd'hui,  avec  ce  qui  s'est  pass^  en  Extrfime-Orient  et 
;iu  Levant  on  peut  dire  que  le  comble  a  6t6  mis  a  tant  de 
malheur  et  que  le  Foreign-Office,  isol6,  n6glig6,  traits  sans 
respect  par  la  Chine  elle-mdme,  est  en  train  de  percevoir  les 
fruits  amers  de  tant  d'erreurs  et  d'une  politique  si  obstind- 
ment  contraire  aux  traditions  et  aux  int6rets  du  Royaume-Uni. 
je  tacherai  un  peu  plus  tard  de  dresser  rapidement  le  bilan  de 
cette  d6confiture.  Auparavant  il  ne  sera  peut-etre  pas  inutile 
de  chercher  a  mesurer  en  quelques  mots  Teflfet  de  ces  6checs 
continus  sur  le  prestige  et  I'autorit^  de  Lord  Salisbury.  Ce 
n'est  point  Ik  un  hors  d'oeuvre.  Le  premier  ministre  a  long- 
temps  6t6  une  des  forces  vives  du  conservatisme,  une  des 
colonnes  de  Taristocratie  tory.  II  a  6t6  presque  le  dictateur  de 
son  parti  et  de  son  pays.  II  a  gouvern6  avec  une  sorte  de 
hlanc-seing.  A  la  Chambre  des  Lords,  quarante  lib^raux  ne 
pouvaient  balancer  la  confiance  implicite  de  cinq  cents  tories. 
La  Chambre  des  Communes  ob^issait  au  doigt,  a  I'oeil  au  noble 
marquis  et  a  ses  lieutenants.  Comme  ceux-ci  6taient  souvent 
pris  parmi  les  parents  proches  du  premier  ministre,  on  a  pu 
dire  que  I'Angleterre  6tait  gouvern^e  par  un  cabinet  de  famille, 
et  tout  cela  passait  comme  une  lettre  a  la  poste,  sans  soulever 
presque  d'objections. 

Quel  que  soit  le  juste  6clat  du  nom  qu'il  porte,  Lord 
Salisbury,  a  6t^  avant  tout  lui-meme  I'auteur  de  sa  fortune 
politique.  Sa  carrifere  politique  a  march6  de  triomphe  en 
triomphe,  mais,  qui  sait  ?  il  n'aura  peut-6tre  manqu^  d'etre 
un  vrai  grand  homme  que  par  les  mSmes  causes  qui  ont  fait 
de  lui  un  grand  personnage  !  En  tout  cas,  il  a  aujourd'hui 
presque  dissip^  le  capital  de  credit  qu'il  poss6dait.  Son 
silence  ne  passe  plus  pour  Eloquent,  sa  parole  n'est  plus  un 
oracle.     II  a  6t^  mis  dans  la  balance  et  trouv6   trop  l^er. 


REVUE   DU   MOIS.  7Q3 

Le  pays  commence  a  se  d6fier,  a  juger,  a  s'inqui6ter  de  cette 
apathie  qui  passait  pour  calme  olympien,  de  cette  mollesse  que 
Ton  baptisait  moderation,  de  cette  insouciance  longtemps 
proclam6e  magnanimity.  Ce  sont  les  6v6nements  d'Orient 
et  d'Extreme-Orient  qui  ont  commence  a  ouvrir  les  yeux  uu 
public  impartial. 

Je  remets  a  ma  prochaine  Revue  du  Mois  Texpos^  complet  et 
d(^taill6  des  n^gociations  auxquelles  ont  donn6  lieu  I'occupa- 
tion  de  Kiao-Tcheou  par  TAllemagne  et  la  proposition  de  la 
candidature  du  prince  Georges  de  Grece  comme  gouverneur 
de  Crfete  par  la  Kussie.  L'echeveau  n'est  pas  encore  d6brouillc. 
Adhuc  sub  judice  lis  est,  Qu'il  me  suffise  pour  aujourd'hui  de 
retracer  a  grands  traits  a  Taide  de  ce  qui  s'est  dit  a  la  Chambre 
fran^aise  et  des  declarations  de  M.  de  Btilow  au  Reichstag, 
comme  du  communiqtU  du  comte  Mouravief,  la  situation 
pr6sente  de  TEurope  et  des  puissances  qui  en  forment  le 
concert  dirigeant  en  Extrfime-Orient  et  a  regard  de  la  Turquie. 
II  sera  plus  ais6  dans  quelques  semaines  de  tirer  des  con- 
clusions qui  ne  soient  pas  purement  conjecturales  sur  cet  ^tat 
de  choses  trouble,  troublant  et  trouble. 

C'est  a  Ja  Chambre  des  d6put6s  de  France,  comme  il  con- 
venait,  que  la  lumifere  a  6te  faite  le  plus  abondamment  sur  la 
question  d'Orient  et  le  partage  des  responsabilit6s  qui  y  sont 
engag6es.  Elle  a  abord6  dans  sa  stance  du  samedi  5  f6vrier 
le  budget  des  affaires  6trangferes  et  a  ouvert  le  d6bat  par  une 
discussion  g6n6rale  sur  la  politique  du  gouvernement  dans  les 
affaires  d'Orient  et  sp^cialement  de  Grdce  qui  n'a  manqu6  ni 
de  force,  ni  d' eclat.  Comme  de  juste,  le  ministre  commenipa 
par  se  r6server  et  par  laisser  deux  orateurs  distingu6s  d6ve- 
lopper  avec  quelque  ampleur  leurs  jugements  sur  ces  negocia- 
tions  si  diflBciles  et  si  complexes. 

M.  Denys  Cochin  et  M.  Decrais  n'appartiennent  point  a  la 
meme  6cole.  Le  premier  n'a  pas  eu  I'occasion  d'acqu6rir 
rexp6rience  des  grandes  affaires,  de  manier  les  grands 
int6r6ts  d'Etat,  de  se  livrer,  avec  les  representants  des  autres 
puissances,  a  ces  approximations  successives,  a  cette  recherche 
de  I'a-peu-prfes  qui  constitue  peut-^tre  en  diplomatie  le 
maximum  d'effet  utile  a  obtenir.  Tandis  que  M.  Decrais 
passait  par  les  grandes  ambassades  et    s'y    initiait   a    cette 


794  COSMOPOLTS. 

connaissance  des  pretentions,  des  suseeptibilit6s,  des  jalousies 
des  puissances,  dont  ne  saurait  se  passer  riiomme  d'Etat 
pratique,  M.  Cochin  a  pu,  grace  a  une  noble  fiddite  a 
d'anciennes  affections,  cultiver  Tid^al  pur. 

M.  Cochin  se  place  sur  les  sommets  ;  il  fait  abstraction  des 
obstacles,  de  la  pression  des  interets  rivaux  ;  il  parle  en 
philhellfene  genereux,  comme  aurait  pu  le  faire  un  particulier 
du  temps  de  la  Restauration,  bien  plus  qu'en  homme  d'Etat 
responsable,  charge  en  premier  lieu  de  procurer  Ic  bien  de  la 
France  et  peu  soucieux  de  d6chainer,  fut-ce  en  vue  des  plus 
belles  compensations  pour  un  client  pr6f6r6,  les  d^sastres  d'une 
guerre  g6nerale.  Voila  le  point  de  vue  auquel  s'est  plac6  M. 
Decrais.  II  n'a  point  pr6tendu  qu'il  n'y  eut  point  eu  de  faute 
commise  :  il  a  simplement  aflfirmc  qu'a  c6t6  de  la  politique  de 
rid6al,  de  la  politique  des  voeux  populaires  et  des  aspirations 
cosmopolites,  il  y  avait  la  politique  de  la  nteessit6,  celle  a 
laquelle  il  n'est  pas  permis  a  un  gouvernement  responsable  de 
se  soustraire,  celle  qui  a  cherch6,  tout  en  s'accommodant  aux 
n6cessit6s  de  temps  et  de  milieu,  a  conferer  les  plus  solides 
avantages  fi  un  pupille  rdcalcitrant,  mais  digne  de  tout 
int6r6t.  . 

Car  il  faut  tout  dire  :  entre  les  conceptions  optimistes  de  M. 
Cochin  et  les  obligations  de  Taction  gouvernementale,  il  n'y  a 
pas  eu  sculement  la  consideration  n6cessaire  de  ce  qu'impose 
Ic  souci  pratique  des  responsabilit^s  d'Etat,  il  y  a  eu  6galement 
cette  longue  suite  de  fautes  et  d'erreurs  que  la  Grfece  a  commises 
et  qu'elle  avoue  aujourd'hui. 

Quoi  qu'il  en  soit,  le  grand  d^bat  qui  ne  pouvait  ne  pas 
s'engager  a  la  Chambre  avait  bien  commence  :  non  seulement 
les  deux  orateurs  qui  y  avaient  pris  part  avaient  d6ploy6  beau- 
coup  de  talent  et  de  franchise,  mais  encore  ils  avaient  excelleni- 
nient  d6blay6  le  terrain  en  pla<;ant  dans  un  vis-a-vis  significatif 
les  deux  seules  politiques  dont  I'alternative  ait  pu  s'offrir  au 
gouvernement  de  la  K^publique.  C'6tait  a  M.  Hanotaux  a  ache- 
ver  la  demonstration  et  a  faire  voir  a  la  Chambre  et  air  pays 
que,  d'une  part,  ii  avait  suivi  la  voie  que  lui  tra^aient  imp6- 
rieusement  les  conditions  actuelles  du  problfeme  a  resoudre 
et,  d'autre  part,  que,  ce  faisant,  il  avait  su  rendre  des  services 
essentiels  a  la  Grfece  et  maintenir  sans  alteration   trop  grave  le 


REvae  DU  MOis.  795 

prestige  et  Tautorit^  morale  de  la  France  en  Orient,  cette  force 
precieuse  que  nous  ont  legu6e  nos  pferes. 

C'est  ce  qu'il  n'a  pas  tard6  a  faire  dans  une  stance  ou  le 
debat  put  s'elargir,  heureusement  sans  d6vier.  II  se  promena 
de  Saint-P6tersbourg  a  P6kin  en  passant  par  Constantinople  et 
sans  s'6parpiller  ni  rien  perdre  de  son  unit6.  C'est  qu'en  effet 
il  y  a  un  lien  fort  6troit  entre  les  diverses  questions  qui  ont  6te 
port^es  a  la  tribune  depuis  celle  du  vrai  caractere  de  I'alliance 
franco-russe  jusqu'a  celle  de  rExtrfime-Orient,  y  compris 
celle  de  la  politique  du  gouvernement  dans  les  affaires  gr6co- 
turques. 

M.  Hanotaux  avait  trouv6  la  une  occasion  toute  naturelle 
de  faire  un  expose  du  pass6  qui  est  aussi  en  quelque  mesure  un 
programme  d'avenir.  11  ne  pr6tendit  point  r6v61er  au  monde 
quelque  chose  de  grandiose  ou  de  miraculeux.  En  dehors 
mfeme  des  organes  en  quelque  sorte  professionnels  de  I'opposi- 
tion,  comme  M.  Jules  Delafosse,  on  con^oit  parfaitement  que 
la  politique  6trang6re  du  gouvernement  souleve  sur  tel  ou  tel 
point  des  reserves,  voire  des  blames  et  des  attaques.  Quand 
bien  meme  une  conception  politique  aurait  le  privilege  rare 
d'^chapper  en  soi  a  tout  reproche,  rex6cution  du  moins  ne 
saurait  s'arroger  sans  outrecuidance  le  m6rite  surhumain 
de  rinfaillibilite. 

Cette  part  faite  a  I'erreur  toujours  possible,  M.  Hanotaux  et 
M.  M^line  n'eurent  vraiment  pas  grand'peine  a  d6montrer  que, 
tout  pese,  tout  consid6re,  le  gouvernement  de  la  R6publique 
avait  adopts  la  seule  ligne  de  conduite  qui  put  convenir,  la 
seule  politique  qui,  dans  les  circonstances  donn6es,  fut  vrai- 
ment fran9aise,  c'est-a-dire  qui  tint  compte  tout  ensemble  de 
nos  intcrets,  dont  les  ministres  ont  le  d6p6t  vsacrc  et  de  nos 
traditions  ou  de  nos  voeux,  dont  le  pays  ne  voudrait  pour 
rien  au  monde  se  d6partir. 

Cette  alliance  russe,  dont  parlent  a  Theure  actuelle  avec 
une  I6g6ret6  si  inconcevable  ceux  qui  naguere  encore  avaient 
failli  compromettre  la  dignite  de  la  France  dans  la  fureur  de 
leurs  agenouillements  et  de  leurs  dithyrambes,  —  elle  est  et 
elle  demeure  depuis  les  6venements  significatifs  de  r6t6 
dernier,  le  grand  fait  nouveau  de  la  situation  europ6enne. 
C'est  elle  qui  a  permis,  non  seulement  au  concert  europ6en 


796  COSMOPOLIS. 

de  se  former  et  de  se  maintenir  dans  des  circonstances 
singulierement  peu  propices  en  Orient,  mais  encore  a  la  France 
d'y  jouer  le  role  si  honorable,  si  conforme  a  son  g6nie,  qu'onl 
mis  en  lumifere  les  Livres  jaunes  et  blcus^  c'est-a-dire  de 
procurer  la  paix,  de  rdtablir  Taccord  et  de  faire  pr6vaIoir, 
partout  oil  faire  se  pouvait,  les  solutions  les  plus  lib^rales  et 
les  plus  progressistes. 

L'opposition  prend  volontiers  a  partie  la  politique  du 
gouvernement  dans  les  affaires  de  Grece.  EUe  y  a,  semble-t-il, 
beau  jeu,  a  cause  des  inalt^rables  sentiments  vou^  par  la 
France  a  la  cause  de  Thell^nisme  et  en  face  de  la  triste 
banqueroute  des  esp6rances  nationalistes.  II  faut  toutefois 
qu'elle  se  donne  au  pr6alable  toute  licence  de  m6connaitre  les 
faits.  11  est  trop  ais6  de  fermer  les  yeux  pour  ne  pas  voir 
Tattitude  de  la  Grece  quand  elle  a  cru  pouvoir  forcer  la  main 
a  TEurope  en  jouant  cette  partie  dangereuse  de  bluffy  ou  pour 
ne  pas  tenir  compte  des  conseils,  des  representations,  des 
efforts  de  toute  espfece  prodigu6s  par  la  France  en  vue  d'arreter 
le  cabinet  d'Athfenes  dans  cette  voie,  ou  encore  pour  faire 
abstraction  du  p6ril  supreme  d'une  conflagration  universelle, 
telle  que  ce  petit  peuple  semblait  se  preparer  d'un  coeur  16ger 
a  d^chainer  en  allumant  son  propre  p6tard. 

En  fait,  on  peut  dire  que  la  Grfece  a  brav6,  a  provoqu6,  a 
voulu  le  sort  que  Ton  deplore  qu'elle  se  soit  attir6.  Et  quand 
rheure  des  retributions  a  sonn6,  qui  done  est  intervenu  pour 
les  rendre  aussi  peu  ^crasantes  que  possible  ?  C*6tait  la,  certes, 
ce  qu'il  fallait  faire,  conform6ment  aux  traditions  du  pass6 
aux  voeux  du  present,  aux  int^rets  de  I'avenir.  Mais  enfin  c'est 
ce  qui  a  et6  fait.  La  Grtee  en  a  parfaitement  conscience.  En 
d^pit  du  d^nigrement  de  notre  opposition,  c'est  encore  vers  la 
France,  vers  son  gouvernement  qu'elle  se  tourne  avec 
reconnaissance  pour  le  pass6  et  confiance  pour  I'avenir. 

Assurement  I'horizon  en  Orient  n'est  pas  sans  nuages. 
Raison  de  plus  pour  persister  avec  une  ferme  volonte  dans  la 
politique  d'union,  de  conciliation,  d'6volution  pacifique,  qui 
n'a  sans  doute  rien  de  sensationnel,  mais  qui  a  le  m6rite 
d'obtenir  au  minimum  des  frais  le  maximum  de.  r6sultats 
positifs.  Si  le  prince  Georges  de  Grdce  devient  gouverneur  de 
la  Crete,  il  restera   sans  doute  a  regretter  amferement  tant  de 


REVUE   DU   MOIS.  797 

sang  vers6  inutilement  et  la  deplorable  modification  d'6quilibre 
oper6e  en  Orient  au  profit  de  la  Turquie  par  la  folia  des  Hel- 
lenes, mais  on  voudra  bien  avouer  que  Thelienisme  en  g6n6ral 
et  la  Crfete  en  particulier  auront  quelques  raisons  de  se  f^liciter 
de  rintervention  des  puissances. 

Celles-ci,  du  reste,  ont  vu  surgir  devant  elles  en  Extreme- 
Orient  tout  un  ensemble  de  questions  encore  plus  d61icates.  II 
faut  se  louer  de  les  avoir  vu  aborder  de  front  a  la  tribune 
fran(;aise.  L'Asie  semble  marqu6e  par  les  destins  pour  dtre  le 
theatre  des  grands  chocs  dicisifs  entre  les  nations  et  les 
empires.  II  est  bon  que  la  France  accoutume  son  regard  a  ces 
lointaines  perspectives. 

Ce  n'est  pas  encore  le  moment  de  reprendre  Tinterminable 
question  du  compromis  austro-hongrois.  M.  de  Gautsch  n'a 
pas  encore  r6ussi — pas  plus  que  le  comte  Badeni  avant  lui  — a 
rouler  au  sommet  ce  rocher  de  Sisyphe.  Toutefois  la  situation 
s'aggrave — et  par  Texaspfiration  des  passions  hostiles,  et  par 
les  incidents  qui  chaque  jour  viennent  se  grefer  sur  le  conflit 
primitif.  En  effet,  a  toutes  les  causes  de  d^sordre  et  de 
disorganisation  qui  travaillent  depuis  quelque  temps  ce 
grand  corps  de  la  monarchie  austro-hongroise  vient  de  s'en 
joindre  une  nouvelle  qui  menace  de  compromettre  gravement 
la  s6curit6  de  TEtat  magyar.  On  sait  combien  les  fondements 
mSmes  de  I'unite  nationale  ont  6t6  6branl6s  depuis  quelques 
mois  par  la  crise  qui  s6vit  en  Cisleithanie,  et  dont  le  premier 
et  le  principal  coutre-coup  a  6t6  d'opposer  un  obstacle  jusqu'ici 
invincible  au  renouvellement  16gal  du  pacte  dualiste  de  1867 
entre  les  deux  moiti6s  de  I'empire. 

En  Autriche,  les  passions  nationalistes  ont  6t€  portdes  a  leur 
comble  ;  Tattitude  r6volutionnaire  du  parti  allemand  centraliste 
a  port6  une  atteinte  peut-etre  irreparable  a  I'autorite  morale 
du  regime  parlementaire  ;  la  coupable  faiblesse  qui  a  donn^ 
pratiquement  la  victoire  aux  obstruction nistes  extremes  n'a 
pas  suffi  pour  rendre  possible  au  ministfere  Gautsch  le  vote 
de  compromis  qui  avait  6t6  refus6  au  ministfere  Badeni  ;  et  les 
deux  grands  groupes  des  Tchfeques  et  des  Polonais,  blesses 
jusqu'au  fond  de  Viinxe  par  le  traitement  qui  leur  a  6t6  inflig6, 
et  remplis  d'alarmes   legitimes  au  sujet  de  Tavenir  que  prepare 


7q8  cosmopolis. 

a  leurs  nations  et  a  leurs  causes  respectives  une  politique  dc 
centralisme  honteux  et  de  germanisme  contraint  et  force,  se 
disposent  a  de  nouvelles  luttes  et  a  des  resistances  plus  efiicaces. 

Pendant  que  ces  orages  s'amoncellent  a  Thorizon  de  la 
Cisleithanie,  la  Hongrie  semblait  plus  favoris6e  de  la  fortune. 
On  eut  pu  croire  que  les  Magyars  allaient  profiter  de  toutes  les 
disgraces  souffertes  par  leurs  concitoyens  de  I'autre  c6t6  de  la 
Leitha.  En  face  du  chaos,  de  Tanarchie  grandissante  dans 
TAutriche  proprement  dite,  le  fonctionnement  r6gulier  du 
parlementarisme  hongrois  paraissait  devoir  conf6rer  un 
prestige  incomparable  a  ce  pays  de  la  couronne  de  Saint- 
Etienne. 

Sans  doute  il  v  avait  eu,  il  v  aurait  encore  de  mauvais 
moments  a  passer.  Le  baron  Banffy  s'6tait  heurt6,  lui  aussi, 
en  d6cembre  dernier,  a  une  obstruction  menagante  et  il  n'avait 
fallu  rien  moins  que  le  concours  patriotique  et  dteint^ress^  du 
comte  Albert  Apponyi  et  de  son  groupe  pour  6viter  a  la 
Hongrie  le  ddshonneur  et  rinconv6nient  majeur  d'un  avorte- 
ment  final  et  la  n6cessit6  de  proroger  par  voie  de  d6cret,  en 
dehors  de  la  legislature,  le  compromis.  Sans  doute  encore 
Tavenir  ne  laissait  pas  de  reedier  de  graves  6ventualit6s  et,  tant 
que  la  reprise  de  la  vie  constitutionnelle  r6gulifere  ne  serait  pas 
:issur6e  en  Autriche,  la  Hongrie  ne  pouvait  nullement  compter 
sur  le  renouvellement  16gal  du  pacte  qui,  tout  en  assurant  son 
autonomie,  lui  a  conf6r6  une  suprdmatie  si  incontestable  dans 
la  direction  des  affaires  communes  de  la  monarchic. 

Tout  cela  6tait  vrai  et  cependant,  le  contraste  entre  I'dtat  de 
decomposition  du  parlementarisme  autrichien  et  les  apparences 
robustes  et  saines  du  parlementarisme  magyar,  6tait  tel — la 
Hongrie  a  si  bien  su  donner  au  regime  une  majority  fidde, 
surtout  depuis  plus  d'un  tiers  de  sifecle,  sous  les  Andrassy,  les 
Tisza,  les  Szapary,  les  Banffy,  une  solidite  a  toute  dpreuve,  que 
la  crise  actuelle  semblait  simplement  devoir  faire  ressortir  et 
mettre  en  pleine  lumiere  la  sup6riorit6  de  I'esprit  politique,  la 
puissance  de  la  discipline,  en  un  mot,  les  precieuses  qualites 
vitales  du  peupic  magyar  en  meme  temps  que  la  parfaite  sante 
de  TEtat  hongrois. 

Eh  bien  !  il  va  falloir  rabattre  un  peu,  —  passablement  — 
beaucoup,  —  beaucoup,  — de  cat  optimisme  officiel.  E)6ja,  pour 


REVUE   DV   MOIS.  799 

ceux  qui  ne  se  contentent  pas  d'lm  coup  d'ceil  superiiciel  el 
c|ui  cherchent  a  percer  r6corce  et  a  p6n6trer  jusqu'au  fond  des 
choses,  il  y  aurait  eu  fort  a  dire  sur  ce  riant  tableau,  sur  ce 
diagnostic  imperturbablement  satisfait.  L'Etat  magyar  a  ses 
plaies  cach6es,  ses  antinomies  intimes,  ses  problemes  moraux 
constitutionnels,  politiques,  administratifs,  qu'il  lui  faudra 
rtsoudre  le  plus  tot  possible  sous  peine  des  plus  graves  com- 
plications. Le  parlementarisme  magyar,  malgr6  sa  facade 
imposante,  en  d6pit  du  spectacle  qu'il  donne  depuis  trentc  ans 
malgr6  la  force  de  la  discipline  qui  a  maintenu  tout  cc  temps 
im  seul  parti  au  pouvoir,  ne  laisse  pas  d'etre  16zarde  par  des 
crev<isses  menayantes. 

La  Providence  a  voulu  faire  6clater  la  v6rite  d'une  fa^on  qui 
saisisse  tous  les  esprits  de  bonne  foi.  L'explosion  de  socialisme 
agraire  qui  vient  de  se  produire  dans  le  comitat  de  Szabolcz  e^ 
qui  gagne  celui  de  Szathmar,  est  un  symptome  profonde- 
ment  inquietant.  On  savait  qu'il  y  avait  a  Budapest,  dans 
d'autres  villes,  un  noyau  de  socialistes  ;  ils  tenaient  des 
reunions,  voire  des  congrfes,  ils  se  livraient  a  une  propagande 
active.  Tout  cela  disparait  au  prix  de  I'importance  redoutable 
de  cette  apparition  du  spectre  agraire  dans  la  grande  plaine  de 
la  Hongrie  agricole. 

C'est  pr6cis6ment  la  brutality  du  ph6nomene,  son  caractere 
rudimentaire,  primitif,  presque  pr6historique,  qui  lui  donne 
toute  sa  gravity.  II  ne  s'agit  pas  d'un  acc^s  16ger  de  socialisme 
superficiel  et  volant.  C'est  Tantique  antagonisme  entre  le 
cultivateur-serf  ou  manouvrier  —  sans  droits  sur  la  terre  qu'il 
arrose  de  ses  sueurs  et  le  propri6taire  maitre  d'immenses 
domaines  qui  delate  a  nouveau  dans  un  pays  oti  des  formes  trcs 
modernes  recouvrent  de  leur  hypocrisie  une  organisation 
demeur6e  quasi  f6odale. 

Le  gouvernement  magyar  a  raison  de  s'6mouvoir  :  on  ne 
joue  pas  avec  les  Jacqueries. 

On  avait  quelque  lieu  d'esp6rer  que  les  rapports  de  Etats- 
Unis  et  de  I'Espagne  allaient  reprendre  un  caractere  normal  et 
paciiique. 

II  serait  vraiment  d6plorablc  que  les  circonstances  de 
l'explosion  du  Maine   ne   soient  pas  assez  nettement  6tablies 


8oO  COSMOPOLIS. 

pour  6carter  toute  id6e  de  crime.  On  peut  d6ja  regretter  que  le 
commandant  de  cet  infortun6  cuirass6,  le  capitaine  Sigsbee, 
n'ait  pas  6te  d'embl6e  en  mesure  d'infliger  un  dementi  ddcisif 
aux  rumeurs  qui  attribuent  une  part  de  responsabilite  ou 
de  complicity  dans  la  catastrophe  aux  autorit6s  espagnoles  de 
Cuba. 

Les  causes  accidentelles   de  malentendu    entre    les   Etats- 
Unis  et  TEspagne  n'ont  que  trop  abonde  dans  ces  derniers 
temps  :  on  aurait  vraiment  dit,  a  de  certains  moments,  d'une 
lutte  in6gale  engag^e  entre  la  bonne  volont6  d'hommes  p^n6- 
tr^s  de  lagravit6  de  leurs  obligations  et  rdsolus  a  tout  faire  pour 
eviter  une  rupture,  et  la  malveillance  aveugle  d'une  espfece  de 
fatalite  acharn6e  a  multiplier  les  occasions  de  conflit.     Depuis 
I'avfenement  du  ministere  Sagasta  et,  quelques  mois  plus  tard, 
du  president  Mac  Kin  ley,  les  gouvernements  de  Madrid  et  de 
Washington  ont  d6ploy6  une  louable  6nergie  pour  mettre  un 
frein    a  des  passions  qui  n'ont  rien   de   blamable    dans  leur 
principe,  mais  qui,  abandonnees  a  elles-memes,  auraient  vite 
fait  de  provoquer  la  plus  f uneste  des  guerres. 

Le  cabinet  espagnol  a  eu,  certes,  quelque  m^rite,  tout  en 
maintenant  ne  varietur  I'immuable  dessein  de  ne  pas  laisser 
porter  atteinte  a  rint6grit6  du  domaine  national,  et  de  pr6server, 
pour  la  mere-patrie,  comme  I'un  des  derniers  debris  de  son 
glorieux  empire  colonial  de  jadis,  la  perle  des  Antilles,  a  se 
tracer  une  ligne  de  conduite  aussi  conciliante,  aussi  mod6'6e, 
aussi  lib6rale  que  celle  qu'il  a  suivie. 

En  tout  cas,  ce  que  personne  ne  mettra  en  doute,  c'est  qu'il 
convient  a  tous  les  amis  de  I'Espagne,  s'ils  ne  s6parent  pas  sa 
cause  de  celle  de  la  liberty  et  de  la  justice,  de  faire  des  voeux 
pour  le  triomphe  de  cette  politique  et  d'6viter  tout  ce  qui 
pourrait  en  compromettre  le  succes.  Les  Etats-Unis  y  sent 
tenus  tout  sp6cialement.  M.  Mac  Kinley  a  en  quelque  sorte 
scelle  de  sa  sanction  le  programme  Sagasta.  II  a  pris  I'engage- 
ment  moral  d'attendre  et  de  tout  faire  pour  donner  le  champ 
libre  aux  repr^sentants  du  nouveau  systfeme. 

Lui  aussi  a  quelque  m^rite  a  rompre  en  visi6re  aux  jingoes 
et  aux  sp6culateurs  qui  m^nent  en  Am6rique  Taffaire  des 
sympathies  philocubaines  et  de  la  reconnaissance  de  la  quality 
de   belligerants    aux    insurg^s    ou    de   Tinddpendance   de  la 


REVUE   DU   MOIS.  8oi 

r6publique  cubaine.  Rien  ne  serait'plus  facheux  que'de^voir 
des  accidents  faire  echoiier  la  politique  de  sagesse  et  de 
moderation  de  la  Maison-Blanche.  D6ja  la  sotte  et  regrettable 
affaire  de  la  lettre  de  M.  Dupiiy  de  Lome  a  M.  Canalejas  avait 
fait  du  mal.  II  avait  fallu  la  prompte  action  du  cabinet  de 
Madrid,  le  rappel  imm6diat  de  ce  ministre  a  double  face  et  a 
double  voix  pour  effacer  I'effet  de  cette  grossiere  attaque  contre 
M.  Mac  Kinley  et  de  ces  perfides  insinuations  contre  la  bonne 
foi  de  M.  Sagasta  et  des  autonomistes. 

On  tente  d6ja,  malgr6  I'avertissement  prudent  du  capitaine 
Sigsbee,  de  rendre  I'Espagne  responsable  de  Texplosion  du 
Maine.  Esperons  que  la  v6rite  pr^vaudra  et  que  les  deux 
gouvernements  sauront  mater  leurs  chauvins  et  maintenir 
leurs  politiques  respectives  envers  et  contre  tous. 

Pendant  ce  temps  le  Transvaal  r6elit  son  pr6sident.  R6elu 
a  une  si  forte  majority,  M.  Kriiger  se  sent  6videmment  plus 
solide  que  jamais  en  selle.  Aprfes  les  evfenements  de  toute 
sorte  qui  ont  si  profond6ment  modifi6,  au  cours  des  dix 
dernieres  annees,  la  physionomie  du  Transvaal,  il  y  a  sans 
doute  quelque  chose  de  fait  pour  caresser  Tamour-propre 
de  rhomme  Ic  plus  modeste  a  se  sentir,  dans  une  certaine 
mcsure,  le  seul  point  fixe  et  iipmuable  d'une  soci6t6  en  pleine 
evolution.  La  confiance  que  ses  concitoyens  ont  t6moign6e 
au  premier  magistrat  de  la  R6publique  sud-africaine  a  du  luj 
etre  d'autant  plus  precieuse  qu'il  avait  quelque  lieu  d'ap- 
prehender,  soit  I'effet  directde  I'infiltration  d'une  population 
nouvelle  au  Rand,  soit  le  choc  en  retour  de  I'attentat  prepare 
par  M.  Cecil  Rhodes,  accompli  par  le  docteur  Jameson,  si 
etrangcment  amnistid  par  M.  Chamberlain  et  si  insufifisamment 
r6pudi6  par  le  peuple  anglais. 

Rien  de  tout  cela  n'a  prevalu  contre  le  souvenir  des  services 
rendus  au  Transvaal  par  Thomme  d'Etat  paysan,  qui  a  obtenu 
)e  surnom  populaire  d!onclc  Paulj  par  cet  homme  a  la  fois 
simple  et  madr6,  tout  p6n6tr6  des  traditions  du  puritanisme 
boer  et  fort  initio  aux  finesses  de  la  diplomatic  la  plus  moderne. 
Les  amis  sinc^res  de  la  R6publique  sud-africaine  avaient 
accueilli  cette  r6election  avec  une  satisfaction  d'autant  plus 
sincere  qu'ils  esp6raient  qu'une  fois  reports  au  pouvoir  par  les 


8o2  COSMOPOLTS. 

suffrages  des  Burghers,  le  president  Kruger  profiterait  de  la 
victoire  pour  d6tendre  la  situation  et,  tout  en  maintenant  avec 
une  patriotique  intransigeance  I'indipendance  du  Transvaal, 
pour  faire  aux  grands  interdts  engages  dans  les  mines  du  Rand 
certaines  concessions  dont  la  commission  industrielle  a  re- 
connu  la  Idgitimitc  et  dont  il  est  impossible,  avec  un  pen  dc 
bon  sens  et  d'impartialit6,  de  ne  pas  reconnaitre  la  haute 
opportunity. 

II  est  Evident  que  c'est  la  une  o^uvre  de  longue  haleine  d 
qu'il  serait  pr6niatur6  de  porter  un  jugement  ou  raeme  de 
former  une  opinion  d'ores  et  d6ja,  sur  Tattitudc  eventuelle  du 
gouvernement  boer  dans  cette  grave  affaire.  Toutefois,  il  vient 
de  se  passer  au  Transvaal  un  ^venement  qui,  sans  toucher 
directement  a  cet  ordre  de  questions,  n'en  m6rite  pas  nioins  au 
premier  chef  Tattention. 

On  sait  qu'un  conflit  avait  6clat6  en  Janvier  dernier  entre  le 
president  Kruger,  repr^sentant  en  I'espece  du  pouvoir  ex^cutif 
tout  entier,  et  le  grand-juge  (chief  justice)  Kotze,  agissant  au 
nom  de  la  Cour  supreme.  Un  jugement  rendu  a  cette  date 
par  cette  haute  juridiction  avait  explicitement  afifirm6  le  droit 
du  pouvoir  judiciaire  de  traiter  icomme  nulles  et  denudes  de 
valeur  toutes  les  lois  du  Raad,  ou  de  TAssemblie  16gislative, 
qui  lui  sembleraient  en  contradiction  avec  une  disposition 
quelconque  du  Grondvei  ou  de  la  Constitution. 

La  pr6tention  en  soi  n'avait  certes  rien  de  d^place  ou  de 
contre  nature.  II  existe  deux  types  d'Etats  constitutionnels. 
Les  uns,  comme  les  Etats-Unis  d'Am6rique,  ou  le  pouvoir 
judiciaire,  sous  les  auspices  de  la  Cour  supreme,  est  expresse- 
ment  investi  du  droit  de  veiller  a  la  pr6ser\^ation  int^grale  du 
pacte  fondamental  et  d'annuler  tons  les  actes  du  pouvoir  legis- 
latif  qui  violent  cette  charte,  a  moins  qu'il  ne  s'agisse  d'amen- 
dements  a  la  Constitution,  vot^s  suivant  les  formes  compliquees 
et  presque  impraticables  pr6vues  par  ce  document  lui-meme. 

Les  autres,  comme  TAngleterre,  n'ont  pas  a  proprement 
parler  de  Constitution,  c'est-a-dire  dc  loi  fondamentale,'  in- 
vestie  dune  saintet6  speciale,  mise  a  I'abri  des  entreprise** 
indirectes,  amendable  seulement  conform6ment  a  une  pro- 
cedure h6riss6e  de  difficult6s.  La,  le  Parlement  est  maitre 
absolu.     II  pent,  a  la  majorit6  simple,  abolir  les  institutions  les 


REVUE   DU    MOIS.  803 

plus  v6n6rables.  Le  pouvoir  judiciaire  n'est  que  rinterprfele  et 
I'exficuteur  de  ses  volont6s,  nuUement  le  garant  de  I'ordre 
constitutionnel. 

Tout  cela  est  616mentaire.  Seulement,  pour  savoir  a  quelle 
categoric  appartient  un  Etat,  il  n'est  qu'un  crit6rium  positif. 
La  prerogative  constitutionnelle  de  la  justice  ne  se  suppose 
pas ;  il  faut  qu'elle  soit  6crite  dans  le  pacte  confidentiel  lui- 
meme.  C'est  toute  la  question.  Or,  le  pr6sident  Kruger  a 
soutenu  contre  le  grand-juge  Kotze  qu'il  n'y  avait  rien  de 
pareil  dans  le  Grondvet  et  celui-ci  n'a  rien  prouv6  1 

Un  modus  vivendi  avait  6t6  n6goci6  par  la  mediation  du 
grand-juge  du  Cap,  sir  Henry  de  Villiers.  R6cemment, 
M.  Kruger  a  public,  d'aprfes  le  memorandum  de  ce  magistrat, 
les  termes  exacts  de  cet  arrangement.  M.  Kotze  a  protests.  II 
s'est  remis  a  juger  les  lois  du  Raad. 

Le  president  n'a  pas  cru  devoir  patienter.  II  a  fulmin6  la 
destitution  de  ce  grand-juge.  M.  Kotze  ne  reconnait  pas  la 
validity  de  cet  acte.  II  a  ajourn6  sa  cour  sine  die  en  affirmant 
qu'il  6tait  et  restait  le  seul  grand-juge.  Par  malheur,  ses 
collfegues  ne  le  soutiennent  pas.  M.  Gr6gorovski  a  d6ja  pris 
sa  place. 

Ce  conflit  est  regrettable.  Quand  bien  m6me  M.  Kruger 
aurait  raison  sur  le  fond  —  comme  nous  le  croyons  —  il  n'est 
pas  bon  d'6puiser  son  droit.  Dans  une  r6publique  il  faut 
pousser  jusqu'a  la  superstition  le  respect  de  I'inddpendance  de 
la  magistrature.  Autrement  Ton  prepare  les  plus  graves 
d^sordres  et  Ton  justifie  I'exploitation  artificieuse  de  cette  faute 
par  les  ennemis  de  TEtat. 

Voili  justement  ce  qui  pour  rait  arriver  au  president  Kruger 
et  au  Transvaal  sur  lesquels  veillent  des  adversaires  sans  plus 
de  piti^  que  de  scrupules,  mais  non  sans  force  ni  sans  allies. 

Francis  de  Pressense. 


VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXVU.  X3 


BULLETIN    LITTfiRAIRE. 


BIBLIOGRAPHIE. 


Pail   et   Victor    Margueritte  :    Lc 
Di^sastrc.    (Plon  et  Xourrit.) 

II  est  difficile  pour  un  Fran^ais  de 
jugcr  uniquement  au  point  de  vue  litte- 
rairc  le  nouveau  roman  de  MM.  Mar- 
gueritte. II  eveille  en  nous  trop  d'cmois 
d'un  autre  ordre.  Assurcment  il  figure 
aux  premiers  raiigs  de  Tceuvro  des  deux 
freres  et  de  la  litteraturc  issue  de  la 
guerre  de  1870.  Les  cent  premieres 
pages  soni  admirables.  II  y  a  des  de- 
scriptions trcs  belles  ;  peut-etre  le  cote 
narratif  n'est-il  pas  exempt  d'un  peu  de 
monotonie,  et  Tallure  generate  du  li\Te 
est-elle  Icnte.  11  deborde  de  trop  de 
choses  que  I'ecrivain  auraitdu  sacrifier  et 
que  le  Frangais  n'a  pu  taire.  Mais  c'est 
un  ouvrage  fort  et  beau. 

Henri  Lichtenberger  :  La  Philosof^hic 

(ie  Sictzschc.    (Alcan.) 

On  parte  tjeaucoup  de  Nietzsche  et  de 
>a  philosophic.      On  pent    meme    dire 
qu'ils   sont  a  la  mode.      Malheureuse- 
incnt  pcrsonne,  ou  a  peu  pres,   ne  les 
connait.     II  sera  maintenant  iX)S5ible  a 
d'autres    qu'^   des  snobs   de    s'enthou- 
siasmer  sur  leur  corapte.    Nous  n'avions 
jusqu'ici  que  quelques  articles  de  revue 
tres  incomplets.  M.  Henri  Lichtenberger 
vient  de  nous  donner  un  volume  d'en- 
semble  sur  I'ecrivain  et  sa  philosophie. 
II  est  clair,   complet  et  exact.     Apres 
I'avoir  hi  on  est  initie  a  toutes  les  theo- 
ries   chcres    a    I'ecrix'ain    et   Ton    peut 
apprecier  le  caracterc  curieusement  sub- 
jectif  de  sa  philosophie  et    I'influence 
qu'elle  est  susceptible  d'avoir.    En  nos 
temps  de  democratic  et  d'egalitarisme 
Nietzsche  est  le  grand  ai>6tre  du  '*  Sur- 
homme/'  le  champion  des  individualites 
aristocrat iques  qui  doivent  dominer  et 
commander.    Sa  theorie  mal  comprise 
peut  paraitre  legitimer  des  6go!smes  mes- 
quins    et   insociaux.     II   ne    peut   pas 
oublier  qu'elle  n'est  que  le  reflet  de  la 


personnalite  de  I'auteur  et  ne  s'appliqoe 
qu'aux  ctres  superieurs  capables  d'oi 
mesurer  la  profondeur. 

P.  ROSEGGER  :  Quandf^taisjcutu,  Xtm- 
vcaux  r6cits  dc  ma  forH,    Tradoit  par 
Mile  E.  Herrmann.     (Fischhachcr.) 
Mile  E.  Herrmann,  qui  a  traduit,  Fan 
dernier,  en  fran^ats,  sous  le  litre  de  f)an> 
ma  Fortt^  un  premier  voluine  de  sou\-eiiiR 
de    P.    Rosegger,    va    achever   par  ce 
second    volume   dc    populariser  panni 
nous  le  nom  du  conteur  qu*ont  pu  ap- 
precier id  meme  les  Iccteurs  dc  Cos- 
MopoLis.    Peut-etre  moins  poetiqocs  ct 
moins  parfum6s  que  oeux  de  la  premiere 
seric,  ces  nouveaux  contes  ont  peut-etre 
plus  de  vie  et  de  fantaisie.   II  faut  roettrr 
Rosegger  au  nombre  des  maitres  ide  b 
paysannerie  ;    ces     types    de    pa}'8ai» 
simples  et  finauds,  craintifs  et  vioients, 
probes  et  roues,  sont  de  tous  les  pays, 
quoique  leur  ph>'5iononiie  enipninte  on 
reflet  plus  touchant  aux  voisinages  de$ 
Alpes  styriennes  et   a  Timagination  de 
celui  qui  fut  Tun  d'eux.     La  traductioo 
est  eiccellente.     A   part    de    tres  rare» 
negligences,  on  croirait   que   Rosegger 
a  ecnt  en  franyais. 

EdouARD  Rod  :  Essai  sur  Gtvthi.    {Per- 
rin.) 

Lc  livrc  de  M.  E.  Rod  a  ete  cent  pour 

*'  engager  quelques  esprits  independants 

a  oonsiderer  sans  parti  pris  Toeuvre  de 

Goethe,  a  la  gouter  sans    la    subir,  a 

I'admirer  sans  extravaguer."      C'est  dire 

que  les  fervents  du  dieu  n*en  seront  pas 

pleinement   edifies ;    et    il    est    certain 

qu'en    Allemagne    particuH^ement   il 

soulevera  des  discussions  passionnees. 

Tous   les   esprits  impartiaux  le   liroot 

avec  le  plus  grand  int6ret     M.  E.  Rod 

est  au  courant  de  toute  "  la  littdratnre'' 

de  son  sujet  et  ses  opinions  sont  ap- 

puyees  sur  une  connaissance  approfondie 


BULLETIN   LITTERAIRE. 


8c5 


suvre  de  Gccthe  et  dc  celles  de  ses 
lentateurs.  Si  "  I'Olympien  "  ne 
3parait  ni  meilleur  ni  plus  grand, 
que  peut-etrc  pour  rexaminer  il  Ta 
lescendre  du  piedestal  ou  les  admi- 
rs  I'ont  juche  et  ne  s'est  servi  pour 
ger  que  de  son  esprit  critique  qui 
Imirable. 

Hess  :  VAmc  nigrc.  (Calmann 
vy.) 

n'ai  jamais  vecu  chez  les  n^gres 
es  relations  avec  eux  n'ont  pas  meme 
iperficielles.  Je  me  figure  pourtant 
\i.  Jean  Hess  a  fort  bien  decrit  leur 

dans  les  cinq  petits  contes  qui 
ent   son    recent  volume.    Elle  ne 

nulle  part  appanie  plus  nettement 
sa  simplicite  rouee,  dans  sa  logique 
mdue,  dans  tous  ses  details 
lants,  comiques,  stupefiants,  in- 
ants,  etc.  Ce  sont  des  enfants 
>les  a  Tame  candidc  et  claire,  mais 
>nt  grand  besoin  d'etre  proteges 
e  eux-memes.  Malheureuscment 
;uropeens  sont  de  sinistres  bonnes 
ant. 

:r  Dombrb  :  Les  Demoiselles  Da- 
idcs,    (Armand  Colin.) 

roman  a  d'abord  la  qualite  d'etre 
5  pour  tout  le  monde  et  en  particu- 
>our  les  jeunes  filles.  II  faut  le  lire 
QC  il  a  ete  ecrit :  avec  bonne 
mr,  avec  entrain  et  sans  s'y  ap- 
itir.  On  y  trouvera  un  esprit 
!  sinon  de  premier  choix,  et  des 
lis  amusants  sinon  d'un  dessin  tres 

Tout  le  monde  peut  gouter  sans 
te  cette  bonne  petite  limonade  ou 
infuse    quelques    citrons    de    Gyp. 

Gyp  ne  fait  pas  de  barbarismes 
1  volontaires. 


Commandant  Margueron  :  Campagiu 
(le  Russie,  Premiere  fariic  :  prelimi- 
itaircs  dc  la  campagne  dc  Russic^  ses 
causcSy  sa  frdparation  ;  organisation  dc 
Vanndcdu  l^^  Janvier  i%io  au  31  Jan- 
vier 18 1 2.  Tome  I.  (Charles-Lavan- 
zclle.) 

Le  volume  du  commandant  Margueron 
rendra  de  grands  services  aux  historiens 
et  aux  lecteurs  qui  desirent  suivre  de 
pres  I'histoire  militaire  de  la  campagne 
de  Russie.  II  consiste  en  une  publica- 
tion raisonnee  de  tous  les  documents 
militaires  impoiiants  de  Tepoque,  grou- 
pes  d'une  maniere  logique  et  precedes, 
relies  et  accompagncs  par  des  notices 
historiques  tr^s  concises  et  tr^s  pr6cises. 
C'est,  si  Ton  peut  dire,  Tossature  militaire 
de  la  campagne  de  Russie  que  nous  a 
isolee  le  commandant  Margueron.  II 
faut  attendre  avec  impatience  la  suite 
d'une  publication  qui  est  parmi  les 
meilleurcs  qu'on  ait  faites  en  ce  genre. 

LiVRES  Re^us. 

Loriot-Lecaudey  et  Ch.  de  Bussy  : 
Don  Juan  au  Clottre.  Pohmc  drama- 
tique.    (Stock.) 

GUSTAVE  Renaud  :  Conies.  (Institut  de 
Bibliographie.) 

Paul  Reclus  :  Eloge  du  Baron  Hippolytc 
Larrcy.    (Masson.) 

George  Meredith  :  Essai  sur  la  Comd- 
die,,.  Introduction  d' Arthur  Symons, 
Traduits  par  Henry  D.  Davray.  (Societe 
du  Mercure  de  France,) 

Henry  Bourgerel  :  Les  Pierres  qui 
pleurent.  Roman.  (Society  du  Mer- 
cure de  France.) 

Georges  Renard  :  Le  Regime  socialiste. 

(Alcan.) 
Emile  Krantz  :   Essai  sur  rEsth/tiquc 

dc  Descartes.    (Alcan.) 


THEATRES. 


Theatre  du  Gymnase  nous  a 
6  ce  mois-ci  les  Transatlantiques^ 
.  Abel  Hermant,  aimable  satire  des 
rs  matrimonialesfranco-am^ricaines, 
\k  poussee  un  peu  k  la  charge.  Trois 

actes  et  un  quatrieme  qui  mal- 
eusement  ne  conduit  pas  jusqu*^  la 
I  bonne  impression  du  public.  M. 
hs  s'est  taill^  un  gros  succ^s  dans 
Ic  de  TAm^ricain  Shaw.  Tr     ^onne 


interpretation  de    Mmes   Sorel,  Samarv 
Starck  et  Henriot, 

A  LA  Rennaissaxce,  la  Villg  mortc 
de  M.  d'Annunzio.  L'action  de  ce 
drame  a  paru  un  peu  languissantc  au 
public  parisien  ;  mais  personne  n'a 
contest^  la  belle  sonorite  des  phrases 
et  le  souffle  de  po^ie  large  et  puissant 
qui  anime  toutes  les  ceuvres  de  M. 
d*Annunzio. 


8o6 


COSMOPOLIS. 


Le  meme  theatre  nous  a  donne 
VAffranchiCy  de  M.  Maurice  Donnay. 
LAffranchie  ne  vaut  pas  Amanis  ni 
mcine  la  DoiiloitrcusCf  mais  on  prend 
toujours  un  grand  plai3ir  au  spirituel 
dialogue-  et  aux  scenes  d 'observation  si 
fine  et  si  parisienne  de  M.  Donnay. 

Les  Demoiselles  des  Saint-Cyrietts^  au 
TheAtre  Cluny,  ont  re^u  du  public  un 
accueil  asscz  bienveillant,  quoique  cette 
opcrcttc  manque  en  somme  d'originalite 
ct  de  r^elle  fantaisie.  Plusieurs  jolis 
morceaux  dans  la  partition  de  M. 
Varney. 

A  LA  CoM^DiE-  Fran^aisb,  Catlurittc, 
dc  M.  Lavedan.  Bien  que  la  conception 
en  soit  d'une  honn^tete  un  pen  uniforme 
et  d'une  ideality  voulue,  la  pi^  a 
obtenu  un  grand  succ^s  pr^  du  public, 
hcureux  de  se  delasser  des  cruautes 
psychologiques  auxquelles  on  I'a  trop 
accoutume  dans  ces  dcrnieres  annees. 
Interpretation  impeccable,  habituelle  a 
la  Comedic  -  fran9aise  et  a  noter  le 
succes  particulicr  et  personnel  de  Mile 
Brandes. 

Aux  VARii^i^s,  M.  Lavedan  aborde 
un  tout  autre  genre  qui  ne  lui  r^ussit 
pas  moins.  Son  \ouveau  Jeu^  nous 
transportant  dans  le  monde  des  snobs  et 
des  viveurs  ^  outrance,  nous  a  prodi* 
gieusement  diverti,  amus^  et  charmc  par 
sa  fantaisie  etourdissante  et  aussi  a  cause 
du  jeu  exquis  dc  sa  principale  interprite, 
Mile  Jeanne   Granier.     Catherine  a  la 


Commie  -  fran^aise,  Ic  Nauifa»  Ja 
aux  Vari^^,  d'un  tour  d'esprit  i 
different,  nous  montrent  que  le  tain 
de  M.  Lavedan  se  pHe  a  toas  les  cot- 
trastes  et  sail  noter  avec  antant  de 
justesse  les  tendances  divenes  # 
caractere  humain. 

Aux  Folies-Dramatiqubs,  YASaa 
Crook  and  Co.,  n*a  pas  tenu  Faffidie. 

A  L'Ambigu,  premiere  representatki 
de  la  PochardCj  de  M.  Juks  Msj. 
Drame  judictaire  ou  ne  manque  pv 
m6me  la  guillotine  que  le  princ^ 
personnage  de  la  pi^ce  aper^ott  en  rcte! 
Le  public  a  paru  pen  enthousiaste  de  or 
spectacle  macabre. 

LaGait^,  a  repris  la  yolU  Patfiimem, 
agreablement  chants  par  Mile  SiDf. 
Cette  operettc  qui  n'est  pas  la  meillen 
d'Offenbach  n*a  pas  gagne  en  affr» 
tant  la  rampe  de  nonveau. 

Dans  Pamela  M.  Sardou  nous  a  done 
au  Vaudbvillb  un  recit  de  I'evasioodt 
Louis  XVII  en  quatre  actes.  OeUe 
pitee  cherche  a  ^lucider  un  point  obicv 
de  rhistoire  sans  arriver  a  convainot 
ni  m6me  a  6clairer  suffisamment  k 
spectateur.  Nous  n'y  trouvons  pas  a 
revanche  les  scenes  humoristiqaesetb 
jolis  tableaux  qui  avaient  fait  le  socoei 
de  Madame  Sans-GStte.  Mme  R^jmeci 
toujours  d'un  naturel  et  d'une  fantaiir 
rares,  et  k  cote  d'elle  M.  Huguenet  noea 
montr^  une  silhouette  amosante  de 
Barras. 


REVUE  DES  REVUES. 


Revue  des  Deux-Mondes,  vfivrier  : 
M.  Henry  Houssaye  poursuit  son  etude 
sur  la  Bntaille  dc  Ligny.  —  M.  G.  Val- 
bert  6tudie  VHistorien  Henri  de  Treitschke 
d'aprfes  le  livre  recent  de  M.  Th.  Schie- 
mann.  Treitschke  n'eut  pas,  dit-il,  "le 
temperament  et  le  tour  d'esprit  d'un 
veritable  historien."  Son  patriotisme 
pnissien  et  son  protestantisme  intransi- 
jjeant  lui  enlevent  toute  impartialite. — 
x^fhfrier:  M.  Emile  Ollivier  d^crit  la 
Criation  et  les  procddis  du  gouvemement 
impMal  sous  Napoleon  III.  —  M.  R.  G. 
I^vy  examine  la  situation  actuelle  de 
/  Industrie  allemande.  EUe  est  dans  une 
6re  de  d^veloppement  considerable,  a  tel 


point  que,  par^t-il,  les  Anglais  coounet' 
cent  a  etablir  eux-m^mes  en  AllemagK 
des  fabriques  destinees  a  fairecoocv- 
rence  aux  ^tablissements  indigtoes  sini- 
laires.  L'Allemagne  offre  actaelleiiiB< 
un  heureux  6quilibre  entre  la  prodacdo 
agricoleet  la  production  industriclk, - 
M.  Roe  donne  quelques  traits  de  mcRBf 
militaires :  En  Petite-Russie.  —  M.  T.  dc 
Wyzewa  parcourt  et  analj-se  la  cofw- 
spondance  de  Dante  Gabriel  RossettL 

Revue  de  Paris,  i«/A»wr:  La  lewe 
publie  une  traduction  de  TSte  ^  TAvst 
I'une  des  oeuvres  les  plus  remarqoees 
d* Anton  Tchdkhov.  L'auteur  est  » 
premier     rang     parmi     les     noofeaii 


BULLETIN   LITTERAIRE. 


807 


rs  russes,  les.*  successeurs  de 
iky,  Tourgueneff  et  Tolstoi. — 
i  Lcttres  de  BruxelUs  de  Victor 
rites  en  1851-1852.  Elles  sont 
ites  pour  ia  biographic  du  poete 
Thistoire  des  eveneinents  du 
M.  Michel  Breal  commence  a 
ous  le  titre  de  Um  heroine  cU 
histoire  de  Stephanie-Louise  de 
•Conti  dont  les  memoires  lu 
t  le  sujet  de  la  Villc  naturclU. — 
Breal  termine  sa  serie  d'articles 
f aires  de  Crdte  en  pronostiquant 
ixion  fatale  et  prochaine  a  la 
M.  Jean  Dornis  apprecie  les 
ie  Gabriel  dAnnunzio.  —  M. 
louvreu  etudie  la  France  ei 
dance  vaudoisc  1797-98. —  15 
La  revue  publie  la  traduction 
uvelle  de  Mme  Mathilde  Serao. 
titre  de  la  Paix  d'Orieni,  M.  E. 
examine  la  politique  fran^aise 
it  depuis  la  cessation  de  la 
reco-turque.  U  Tapprecie  dans 
:s  les  plus  severes  et  montre  les 
;s  que  causent  a  la  France  la 
:ence  du  fanalisme  musulman 
ninution  de  son  influence  en 

►RRESPOXDENT,  2$  janvicr :  Le 
//dn/ publie,  sous  la  signature  de 
ien  Diplomate,"  un  article  sur 
ments  qui  se  sont  passes  depuis 
ais  dans  TExtreme  -  Orient, 
les  resume  ainsi :  "  Un 
nouveau  est  constitue  au  nord 
ine  ;  la  Russie  y  est  prcponde- 
lUemagne  remportc  un  succes 
ible,  I'Angleterre  est  bernee,  et 
:e — ^jusqu'ici — reste  les  mains 
\.M  fond,  ajoute-t-il,  c'est  un 
;)isode  du  duel  anglo-allemand, 
ie  a  Constantinople,  Ta vantage 
:ure  a  Guillaume  H.  —  M.  F. 
ftudie  Toeuvre  de  Gabriel 
:io. — M.  Paul  Thirion  montre 
nee  de  la  Mission  Marchaud 
lans  la  region  du  Haut-Xil. — Le 
de    Nadaillac    commence    une 

le  Royanmc  dc  Benin  d'aprcs 
(en  anglais)  du  capitaine  Allan 
1  et  du  commandant  R.  H. 
to  /ei'Hcr :  M.  Hubert  Valle- 
ie  VOnvricr  amcricain. 

DES  Revues,  i<^'  /tvrier:    M. 


Griboyedoff ,  sous  le  titre  de  :  le  Centenaire 
(fun  li6ros  onblit^^  retrace  la  physionomie 
du  general  Humbert  qui  en  1797  com- 
mandait  le  corps  expeditionnaire  fran^^ais 
qui  debarqua  en  Irlande. — Mile  Blaze  de 
Bury  etudie  les  heroines  de  Miss  Rhoda 
Broughton  et  montre  leur  caractcrc 
foncicrement  anglo-saxon  — M.  Rudolphc 
Scharf  esquisse  I'ocuvre  de  MM.  Dahn, 
Ebers  et  Sperl,lcs  auteurs  de  la  Kesnrrec- 
tiondnroman  historiqucen  Allemagne. — 
i$fevrier :  Le  Dr  A.  dc  Xeuville  nous 
raconte  Comment  on  vcnei  e  les  morts  chez 
les  sanvages.  Outre  de  pittoresques  details 
il  y  a  de  bien  amusantes  illustrations. — M. 
Jean  Finot  etudie  le  Docteur  Max  Kordati 
et  sa  dernitre  ceuvre.  Cette  dernierc 
oeuvre :  les  Faux  Bourdons^  est  un  tableau 
grandiose  de  la  haute  finance  avec  scs 
"  turpitudes,  un  des  requisitoires  les  plus 
passionnants  "  qu'on  ait  ecrits  contre  elle. 
— M.  Hugo  Ojelti  resume  le  Monvement 
litteraire  en  Italie. 

Revue  Hebdom.\uaire,  22  Janvier  : 
VindesSonvenirs  de  Betzy  Belcombe^  sur 
Napoleon  a  Ste-Helene.  Bet/y  Belcombe 
etait  enfant  a  Tepoque  de  la  captivite 
de  TEmpereur.  Elle  eut  le  privilege 
d'amuser  bien  des  fois  le  heros  dechu. 
Plus  tard  elle  a  conte  scs  souvenirs  qui 
fourmitlent  d*anecdotes  amusantes  et 
pittoresques.  C'est  la  premiere  fois  qu'ils 
sont  traduits  de  Tanglais. — 2^  Janvier :  Lc 
baron  J.  Antomarchi  conte  d'interessants 
souvenirs  personnels  sous  le  titre  dc 
Quinze  niois  a  Cuba  au  milieu  des  insui- 
ges  (fevrier  1895-mai  1896).  C'est  unc 
utile  contribulion  a  I'histoire  du  souleve- 
ment  cubain. — Le  comte  Fleury  conte  la 
singuliere  reception  de  Un  ambassadetir 
lure  sous  le  Directoire. — 5  fierier :  Suite 
des  Souvenirs  du  baron  Antomarchi. 
D'interessants  details  sur  les  insurges  dc 
Cuba  et  leur  equipement. 

Revue  Bleue,  22  janvicr :  Conclusion 
de  VEfiquete  sur  les  responsabiliUs  de  la 
PressCf  par  M.  Henry  Beren^er.  M. 
Henry  Berenger  demande  une  serie  de 
mesures  destinees  a  reprimer  les  abus  de 
la  presse.  "  Liberie  entiere,  mais  entierc 
responsabilite."  Le  juge  charge  de  les 
appliquer  devrait  etre  "  un  tribunal  de 
la  presse,"  compose  d'autorites  illustres 
prises  dans  I'elitc  de  la  presse  et  de  la 
magistrature    et    preside    ^av    Mtv   vi%^ 


8o8 


COSMOPOLIS. 


unique  et  inamovible. — M.  V.  Tissot 
analyse  le  Soiige  dune  matitUe  de 
piitttcmps,  deM.  d'Annunzio. — 2gjattvicr: 
V Affranchissemcnt  du  fays  de  Vaitd,  il  y 
a  exactement  cent  ans. — 12  fevrier:  M. 
C.  C.  de  Molina,  sous  le  titre  de  Cadeaux 
dc  souvcrainsj  traduit  quelque  documents 
curieux  relatant  le  gracieux  cadeaux  de 
douze  hommes  de  haute  stature  que  la 
Kepublique  de  Venise  offrit  en  1743  au 
roi  Frederic-Guillaume  I*'  de  Prusse. 

Revue  EscvcLOPEDittUE,  29  Janvier 
itigS:  M.  Henry  Lapauze  donne  une 
biographie  interessante  de  Mine  Emma 
Calvc\  la  creatrice  du  role  de  Sapho  a 
rOpera-Comique. — $J&vrier:  M.  L.  Van 
Keymeulen  etudie :  Un  romancier 
hollandais,  M.  Louis  Couperus.  C'est 
probablement  la  6gure  la  plus  conside- 
rable du  roman  hollandais  moderne. 
Malgre  un  cosmopolitisme  marque,  son 
oeuvre  garde  une  couleur  locale  reelle  : 
il  a  sa  popularity  a  Tetranger  comme 
parmi  ses  compatriotes. — M.  C.  B^guin 
resume  la  Politique  en  Su^de  et  Norv^gc 
de  1875  a  1897. — 12  fivrier:  Numcro  a 
peu  pres  lotalement  consacre  a  la 
graphologie,  science  actuellement  dune 
rcdoutable  actualite. 

La  Quinzaine,  i*^  fiviier:  M.  Paul 
Thirion  examine  les  ProhUmes  de 
I' Extreme-Orient.  11  estime  qu'il  off  re 
a  ceux  qui  veulcnt  le  conquerir  un  avenir 
brillant  mais  borne  dans  le  temps,  et 
engage  la  France  a  ne  pas  s'y  hasarder 
plus  que  ne  Texige  la  conservation  de  ses 
colonies  d'Indo-Chine. 

XouvELLE  Revue,  i*'  /drier:  M. 
Henri  Lichtenberger  etudie  La  question 
ajilraire  et  le  parti  socialiste  alleniand.  II 
examine  les  attitudes  successives  qua 
prises  le  socialisme  allemand  vis-a-vis 
des  paysans  et  fait  remarquer  qu'au 
recent  congres  de  Breslau  ses  chefs  ont 
franchement  reconnu  qu'ils  ne  pouvaient 
rien  pour  le  paysan  proprietaire  tant 
que  celui-ci  demeurerait  attache  a  sa 
propriele. — M.  A.  de  Pouvourville  etudie 
les  Ambitions  europ^ennes  en  Chine,— 
J  5  fhrier :  M.  L.  X.  etudie  Un  grand 
Am^ricaiUy    Henry    George,    le    celebre 


auteur  de   Progress  and  Poverty 
recemment  a  New- York. 

La  Plume,  15  Janvier:  Un 
anonyme  sur  les  Cartes  de  risite  > 
fois.  Quelques  details  amusant 
curieuses  reproductions.  —  i*' 
M.  Adolphe  Rette  public  un  ar 
VA  ntishnitistne. 

Revue    Universitaire,    15 
M.  Paul  Bonnefon  public  plusieur 
inedites  de  Voltaire. 

Revue  Socialiste,  15  jamr^ 
Jean  Melia  consacre  quelques  \ 
socialiste  espagnol  Pablo  Igles; 
dit-il,  "est  une  des  figures  1 
sympathiques  et  les  plus  intelb'g< 
socialisme  international/* — M.  N. 
analyse  le  troisieme  livre  da  Caj 
Marx.  — fevrier:  Sous  le  titre 
Socialiste  it  les  classes  agriccies  c 
la  revue  publie  une  brochure  abr 
Rapport  au  Congrhs  national  s 
italien  (18-20  septembre  1897),  d 
Gatti.— M.  Henri  Thurow  da 
Socialisme  en  AUemagtie  en  1897. 

Revue  d'Histoire  litteraibi 
France,  15  Janvier :  M.  Joseph 
etudie  Les  Origines  de  Fit 
allemande  dans  la  litti^rature  ft 
du  XIX"  siicUf  depuis  le  commen 
du  siecle  jusqu*en  1840. 

Mercure  de  France,  fevru. 
Jules  de  Gaultier  etudie  Ic  Boud 
en  Occidents 

.  Revue  Blanche,  i«'  fevrier'' 
des  amusantes  (Envrcs  inedii 
rEmpereur^  forgees  par  M.  Paul  Ai 
M.  Albert  Metin  donne  quelques  n< 
le  socialisme  en  Pologne.— 1 
Lasvignes  etudie  le  recent  voloux 
Paul  Schlenther,  sur  GerhartHaupi 
— iSfivrier :  II  faut  lire  sous  le  tit 
Les  Decadents,  quelques  pages  du ' 
prochain  de  Leon  Tolstoi  qui  s'y 
une  attaque  energique  contre  oe 
incomprehensible. 

L'Effort,  janvier-fdvrier :  Cc  i 
est  consacre  i  une  enqu^e  sur  " 
Energique  chez  la  jeunesse.*' 

Revue  Naturiste,  25  janviG 
revue  publie  un  Supplement  p 
compose  d*0Buvres  des  jeuncs  pot 
Languedoc. 


Directeur:  F.  Ortmans. 


IM    NEUEN    LEBEN. 


Als  Felix  erwachte,  staunte  er  iiber  die  Stille.  Wo  war  er  ? 
Fern  seiner  deutschen  Heimat,  in  dem  niedrigen  Zimmer 
eines  Farmhauses  am  Erie-See.  Spat  am  Abend  vorher,  nach 
langer  Reise,  war  er  angekommen.  Wahrend  er  sich  anzog, 
blickte  er  von  Zeit  zu  Zeit  in  den  Garten.  Da  horte  er, 
zwischen  dem  Zirpen  der  Vogel,  ein  leises  Platschern  und  sah 
auf  der  Veranda  unter  seinem  Fenster  ein  Madchen  beim 
Waschen  ;  sie  trocknete  sich  Hals  und  Schultern  und  seufzte 
Es  war  ein  leiser  Seufzer,  den  die  Morgensonne  aus  ihrer 
Brust  hervorlockte.  Da  sah  sie  iiber  sich  den  Jiinglingskopf 
und  verschwand. 

Felix  eilte  ins  Freie  und  wanderte  iii  den  Morgen  hinein. 
Vor  ihm  blinkte  ein  Bach  und  verschwand  in  Wald  und 
Nebel ;  von  den  Stallen  her  horte  er  das  Briillen  der  Kiihe. 
Bald  rief  ihn  die  Fruhstiicksglocke  zuriick,  und  auf  der 
Veranda  erwartete  ihn  Harold,  ein  Englander  mit  kahlem 
Schadel  und  machtigem  Bart.  Mit  diesem  zusammen  betrat 
er  das  Esszimmer.  Petra,  eine  hohe  Frauengestalt,  begriisste 
sie  herzlich,  ebenso  Frauen  und  Manner  in  Arbeitstracht, 
welche  nach  und  nach  vom  Hofe  hereinkamen.  Alle  nahmen 
Platz  und  beugten  ihr  Haupt  zum  Gebete.  Das  Zimmer  war 
niedrig,  die  Fenster  klein  und  von  Baumen  beschattet,  aber 
allmfihlich  uberkam  Felix  ein  tiefes  Gefuhl  des  Behagens, 
da  er  Petras  mutterliche  Formen,  Harolds  patriarchalischen 
Kopf  und  die  ruhigen  Gesichter  der  Anderen  betrachtete. 
Er  fuhlte  sein  Herz  aufgehen  in  ihrer  Mitte  und  warf 
Harold    einen    dankbaren    Blick    zu,  was   dieser   mit   ^vw^vw. 


8lO  COSMOPOLIS. 

Kopfnicken  beantwortete,  das  zu  sagen  schien  :  ^*  Siehst  du,  ich 
dachte  es  mir,  dass  du  dich  hier  wol  fuhlen  wurdest." 

"  Ich  habe  unsern  Freund  auf  dem  Meere  kennen  gelernt," 
sagte  er  zu  den  Andern.  "  Wie  Siegfried,  der  Held  der 
deutschen  Sage,  zog  er  auf  Abenteuer  aus,  und  da  habe  ich 
ihn  hierhergebracht." 

Ein  Lachein  ging  langsam  von  Gesicht  zu  Gesicht. 

•*Wenn  es  ein  Abenteuer  ist,  eine  Familie  zu  finden,  die 
aus  vielen  Kopfen  besteht  und  doch  ein  Herz  und  eine  Seele 
ist,  und  in  der  Einer  fur  den  Andern  arbeitet,  dann  ist  er  hier 
richtig,"  bemerkte  Petra. 

"Es  ist  ein  Hauflein  Veteranen,  in  das  du  geraten  bist," 
erklarte  Harold,  "  Veteranen  im  Kampfe  fur  das  Wol  der 
Menschheit.  Einige  sind  schon  in  *  Brook-Farm  '  und  Einer 
sogai'  in  Owens  '  Neuer  Harmonie'  gewesen,  und  das  war 
eine  der  ersten  communistischen  Gemeinden  in  Amerika.  Wir 
aber  betrachten  uns  nicht  nur  als  eine  Gemeinde,  sondeni 
ais  eine  Familie,  der  Liebe  und  der  Arbeit  aus  Liebe  geweiht/' 

Nach  dem  Friihstuck  wartete  Harold,  bis  sich  Felix  eine 
Arbeitsblouse  angezogen,  die  man  ihm  gegeben  hatte,  dann 
folgten  die  beiden  Freunde  den  Andern,  welche  mit  dem 
Heuvvagen  auf  dem  Weg  nach  der  Wiese  aufgebrochen 
waren.  Petra  nickte  ihnen  noch  einmal  von  der  Veranda 
aus  zu. 

"  Wie  miitterlich  sie  ist ! "  sagte  Felix.  "  Heute  erst  habe 
ich  verstanden,  was  du  mir  neulich  erklartest,  dass  man  die 
geistige  Atmosphare  guter  Menschen  wie  reine  Luft  ein- 
atmen  kann.  Ich  atme  wie  in  einer  andern  Welt  in  dieseni 
Kreise." 

"Wir  mdchten,  dass  Ihr  Jungen  Gelegenheit  findet,  besser 
zu  werden,  als  wir  Alten  es  konnten.  Die  Vorsehung  pflanzt 
in  die  Herzen  der  meisten  Menschen  die  Keime  hohen  und 
edlen  Strebens,  aber  wo  konnen  sie  in  der  Welt,  wie  sie 
ist,  sich  entwickeln  ?  Ich  habe  gehofft,  dass  du  dich  hier 
wol  fuhlen  wurdest." 

"  Sind  nicht  noch  mehr  junge  Leute  hier,  Harold  ?  Ich 
sah  heute  Morgen  auf  der  Veranda  ein  Madchen  beim  Waschen; 
sobald  sie  mich  erblickte,  verschwand  sie." 

"  Das  war  Rosaly." 


IM   NEUEN   LEBEN.  8ll 

"Erst  lange  nachher  ist  es  mir  eingefallen,  dass  es  Unrecht 
war,  sie  zu  belauschen." 

"Wer  sich  auf  der  Veranda  wascht,  kann  sich  am  Ende 
nicht  wundern,  wenn  er  gesehen  wird." 

**  Ich  bin  sicher,  sie  hatte  keine  Ahnung,  dass  noch  Jemand 
im  Hause  war,  und  im  Garten  war  es  so  still,  als  ob  die 
Menschen  noch  garnicht  geschaffen  waren.  Ist  sie  vielleicht 
meinetwegen  nicht  zum  Fruhstiick  gekommen  ?" 

**  Moglich,"  sagte  Harold,  "  vielleicht  auch  hat  sie  die  Kinder 
unserer  Gemeinde  angezogen,  die  ihrer  Obhut  anvertraut 
sind.  Jedenfalls  wird  sie  nicht  so  verlegen  sein,  wie  du 
denkst.  Sie  ist  zwar  eine  kleine  Puritanerin,  aber  so  einfach 
und  unschuldig  aufgewachsen,  dass  sie  die  aussere  Strenge  der 
Puritaner  nicht  kennt." 

"  Eine  Puritanerin  ?J'  fragte  Felix. 

'*  Jawol.  Petras  Vorfahren  sind  AUe  puritanische  Prediger 
gewesen,  seit  sie  mit  den  ersten  Ansiedlern  nach  Amerika 
eingewandert.  Dein  Grundsatz  :  Alles  erfahren,  AUes  genies- 
sen  wiirde  schwerlich  ihren  Beifall  finden." 

"Und  Rosaly— ?" 

"  Ist  Petras  Tochter." 

Sie  waren  den  Wagenspuren  iiber  die  Wiese  gefolgt,  und 
erreichten  jetzt  die  Maher.  Jenseits  des  hohen  Uferrandes 
dehnte  sich  die  weite  Flache  des  Sees  aus. 

"  Hier  steht  noch  eine  Sense.  Nun  zeige  uns,  was  du 
kannst,"  sagte  Harold  zu  dem  Jiingling. 

Dieser  warf  einen  verstohlenen  Blick  auf  die;Anderen,  um 
zu  sehen,  ob  er  das  rechte  oder  linke  Bein  vorstellen  sollte, 
dann  ging  er  eifrig  ans  Werk. 

"  Langsamer,  langsamer,"  rief  Harold.  "  So  heftig  haltst 
du  es  nicht  lange  aus.  Biicke  dich  nicht  so  tief  und  halte  die 
Sense  leichter.  Sieh  dir  den  John  da  driiben  an,  der  so 
gemachlich  ans  Werk  geht  und  doch  die  Arbeit  von  Vieren 
tut.  Er  ist  Lohnarbeiter  und  von  Jugend  auf  an  diese  Arbeit 
gewohnt ;  von  uns  haben  manche  noch  mehr  Eifer  als 
Geschick." 

Felix  griff  mit  frischen  Kraften  zur  Sense,  und  siehe  da,  es 
gelang  ihm,  ihr  den  richtigen  Schwung  zu  geben,  sodass  sie 
gerade   und   muhelos    durch   das    Gras    flog.     Immer    freier 


8l2  COSMOPOLIS. 

wurden^  seine* 'Bewegungen,  gleichmassig  wiegte  er  sich  hin 
unci  her  wie  die  Andern.  Stunde  auf  Stunde  verrann  in 
stetiger  Arbeit,  aber  da  die  Sonne  immer  heisser  brannte, 
begann  es  in  seinem  Kopf  zu  sumtnen,  wie  in  einem  Kochtopf^ 
und  die  hellen  Schw'eisstropfen  rannen  ihm  von  der  Stirn 
lierunter. 

"Genug,"  rief  Harold,  der  es  bemerkte.  "  Du  bist  nicht 
daran  gewohnt  und  wirst  jetzt  heimgeschickt.  Du  kannst  audi 
am  Bach  entlang  nach  dem  Farmhaus  zuruckkehren.  VVir 
treffen  uns  bei  Tisch." 

♦ 

Die  Schlucht,  die  sich  der  Bach  mitten  durch  das  Land 
unsrer  Freunde  gegraben,  war  unberuhrte  Wildnis,  von 
Ervvachsenen  selten  betreten,  dagegen  kleinere  Fussspuren, 
waren  oft  in  dem  schwammigen  Moos  zu  sehen.  Nackte 
kleine  Beine  kletterten  durch  die  Zweige  gefallener  Baume, 
unter  denen  der  Bach  hinwegglitt,  oder  schritten  uber  andre, 
welche  vom  Moos  bezwungen  und  der  Zweige  langst  beraubt^ 
zu  brauner  Erde  unter  ihnen  zerbrockelten,  und  kleine  Arme 
schlangen  sich  um  die  aufrechten  Riesenstamme,  nicht  viel 
fester  als  das  Moos,  das  an  denselben  emporwuchs  und  sie 
mahnte,  dass  sie  einst  zu  der  Mutter  Erde,  die  sie  an  ihren 
Wurzeln  festhielt,  zuruckkehren  mussten,  wenn  sie  auch  einige 
Jahrhunderte  mit  den  Wipfeln  im  Lichte  traumen  und  sicli 
ausbreiten  durften.  Von  kleinen  Handen  getragen,  fingen  die 
Farrenkrauter  an,  zu  wandeln,  und  die  roten  Beeren,  in  ihrem 
feuchten  Dickicht  nie  von  der  Sonne  erreicht,  wurden  von 
kleinen  Fingern  ans  Licht  gezogen  und  einem  runden  kleinen 
Madchen  um  den  Hals  gehangt.  Ein  blasser  magrer  Junge 
von  vier  Jahren  nahm  die  Kafer  des  Weges  auf  und  setzte  sie 
einem  andern  auf  die  langen  Haare  und  auf  die  grossen  Ohren^ 
und  dieser  merkte  es  nicht,  da  er  mit  seiner  schlafrigen  kleinen 
Pflanzenseele  verloren  traumte  wie  die  Strauche  und  Baume 
um  ihn  her.  Vor  sich  hinplaudernd  wie  der  Bach  zogen  die 
Kinder  durch  das  Dickicht,  die  Vogel  flogen  nicht  fort,  sondern 
wiegten  sich  auf  den  Zweigen,  und  die  Eichkatzchen  sahen 
sich  nach  ihnen  um.  Mit  ihnen  ging  ein  Madchen  von 
sechzehn  Jahren.  Aufrecht  und  ernst  schritt  sie  dahin  durch 
die  Schatten  des  Waldes.     Von  Zeit  zu  Zeit  blieb  sie  stehen, 


IM   NEUEN   LEBEN.  813 

um  ein  Farrenkraut  zu  pflucken,  oder  um  "  Sammy  "  zu  rufen, 
wenn  der  traumerische  kleine  Knabe  mit  den  langen  Haaren 
und  grossen  Ohren  vor  dem  Loch  eines  Murmeltieres  oder 
einem  Wassertiimpel  zuruckblieb.  "Sammy"  wiederholte 
dann  Ted,  der  andre  Knabe,  gebieterisch,  und  "'Ammy"  lallte 
das  kleine  Madchen,  mit  den  dicken  Beinchen  stampfend. 

An  einer  Lichtung  der  Schlucht  nahm  das  junge  Madchen 
die  Kleine  bei  der  Hand,  um  sie  uber  einen  flachen  Nebenarm 
des  Baches  nach  der  Insel  in  der  Mitte  zu  fuhren.  Da  zog 
Ted  sie  am  Kleide  : 

"  Gib  mir  Mosy,  Rosaly." 

Rosaly  sah  hinab  in  seine  schwarzen  Augen  und  fragte  : 

"  Was  gibst  du  mir  ftir  Mosy,  Ted  ?  " 

Er  dachte  nach. 

"  Hast  du  garnichts  ?  "  fragte  Rosaly. 

Ted  schuttelte  den  Kof. 

"  Dann  gieb  Rosaly  einen  Kuss." 

Sie  beugte  sich  nieder,  kiisste  ihn  und  iibergab  ihm  Mosys 
Hand. 

"  Nimm  dich  in  Acht,  dass  Mosy  sich  nicht  an  einem  spitzen 
Stein  ritzt,"  warnte  sie,  wahrend  Ted  stolz  das  Kind  durch  den 
Bach  fuhrte  und  das  Wasser  spritzen  Hess,  um  sie  zu  unter- 
halten.  Rosaly  folgte  mit  Sammy,  uber  einige  trockne  Steine 
schreitend. 

Der  Bach  spiegelte  in  der  tieferen  Stelle  auf  seinem  Grunde 
von  versunkenen  Blattern  eine  rotliche  Felswand  und  ein 
Stuck  blauen  Himmels,  und  schimmerte  hell  umdie  Sandbank, 
die  Rosaly  und  den  Kindern  als  Spielplatz  diente. 

Dort  sah  sie  Felix  und  kam  zu  ihnen  uber  den  Bach.  Als 
er  in  Rosalys  klare  und  ernste  Augen  blickte,  fuhlte  er  eine 
Reinheit  und  Hohheit  in  sich  (ibergehen,  wie  er  sie  noch  nie 
empfunden  hatte. 

Er  setzte  sich  in  den  Sand  und  betrachtete  verstohlen 
Rosalys  Bild  im  Wasser  ;  sie  bewegte  sich  still  und  unbe- 
wusst,  als  ob  sie  allein  ware.  Habe  ich  sie  heute  Morgen 
verletzt  ?  fragte  er  sich.  Soil  ich  um  Entschuldigung  bitten  ? 
Thoricht  erschienen  ihm  solche  Gedanken,  wahrend  er 
sie  betrachtete,  doch  gegen  sein  besseres  Gefuhl  begann  er  zu 
sprechen. 


8l4  C06MOPOL18. 

"  Bist  du  meinetwegen  heute  nicht  zum  Friuhstuck  gekom- 
men  ?  " 

Sie  fuhr  fort,  die  Farrenkrauter  zu  sondern,  als  hatte  sie 
nichts  gehort,  worauf  er  tat,  als  hatte  er  nichts  gesprochen. 

Zutraulich  kam  Mosy  zu  ihm  heran  und  sah  ihn  sich  an. 
Er  plauderte  mit  ihr,  zeigte  ihr  den  hellen  Arm  des  Baches 
und  sagte,  es  ware  Silber,  zeigte  ihr  den  tiefen,  dunklen  mit 
versunknen  Blattern  und  sagte,  es  ware  Gold.  Die  Sandbank, 
auf  der  sie  sassen,  nannte  er  ein  Schiff ;  es  wurde  mit  dem 
Bach  dahin  segeln,  und  den  Wasserfall  hinunter  in  den  See 
gleiten,  denn  es  konne  nicht  untergehen,  so  lange  Rosaly  bei 
ihnen  ware.  Dann  wiirden  sie  einen  breiten  Strom  hinunter 
an  grossen  Stadten  vorbeifahren  und  uber  einen  noch  gros- 
seren  See,  den  Ocean,  bis  sie  nach  Deutschland  kamen,  wo 
alle  Leute  Kinder  waren  und  Rosaly  zu  ihrer  Konigin  machen 
wurden. 

Ted  und  Sammy  horten  eifrig  zu,  wahrend  Felix  solche 
Kindergeschichten  erzahlte  und  allmahlich  leiser  sprach,  da 
Mosy  in  seinem  Arm  einschlief. 

"  Sie  sieht  aus,  als  traumte  sie  von  Erdbeeren  und  Kirschen," 
sagte  Felix  zu  Rosaly,  ganz  leise,  um  das  Kind  nicht  zu  wecken. 
"  Die  warme  Luft  hat  sie  mude  gemacht." 

"  Sie  ist  sonst  nicht  gleich  so  zutraulich,"  antwortete  Rosaly 
und  sah  verwundert  ihn  und  das  schlafende  Kind  an. 

"  Mir  ist,  als  ob  ich  auch  dich  schon  lange  kenne,"  sagte  er 
leise. 

Dann  sassen  sie  schweigend  zusammen,  bis  das  Madchen 
aufstand  und  die  Blatter  und  Zweige  von  ihrem  Kleid 
schiittelte.     Sierief  Ted  und  nahm  Sammy  an  die  Hand. 

"  Ich  werde  Mosy  nach  Hause  tragen,"  sagte  Felix.  "  Sie  ist 
nur  halb  wach." 

"  Ist  sie  nicht  zu  schwer  ?  " 

"  Oh  nein,  ein  so  reizendes  dickes  Packetchen." 

Die  Kinder  plauderten  auf  dem  Heimweg,  die  Vogel  sangen 
in  den  Zweigen. 


»  • 
» 


Der  Nachmittag  gehorte  wieder  der  Arbeit. 
Als  die  Manner  am  Abend  hinter  dem  voUen  Wagen  her 
nach  dem   Farmhaus  zuriickkehrten,  fiihlte  Felix  sich   mude 


IM   NEUEN   LEBEN.  815 

und  wie  betiiubt  von  Landluft  und  Heuduft.  Noch  in  dem 
dammrigen  Esszimmer  hatte  er  den  Kopf  so  voll  von  goldenem 
Sonnenlicht,  dass  er  erst  allmahlich  die  Gesichter  unterscheiden 
konnte.  Er  fuhlte  sich  glucklich  und  fragte  sich  erstaunt,  was 
cs  war,  das  ihn  begluckte.  Die  Arbeit  im  Freien  ?  Das 
Behagen,  das  er  im  Kreise  seiner  neuen  Freunde  empfand  ? 
Wie  verschieden  waren  sie  unter  sich  !  Und  doch  fand  er  in 
fast  alien  Gesichtern  einen  Ausdruck  des  Friedens,  der  bei 
Manchen  noch  wie  unglaubig  aus  tiefen  Fallen  hervorschaute, 
wahrend  sie  die  Kopfe  ein  wenig  gebeugt  hielten. 

Nach  dem  Adendbrot  trat  einer  nach  dem  andern  auf  die 
Veranda.  Die  Schimmel,  welche  den  Heuwagen  gezogen, 
weideten  auf  dem  Abhang  vor  dem  Hugel.  Hinter  den 
Klippen  versank  die  Sonne  und  mit  ihr  verschwand  der  Glanz 
des  Baches  und  der  Widerschein  der  Fenster,  nur  die  Wolken 
uber'm  See  waren  noch  beleuchtet. 

"  Ich  werde  diesen  Tag  sobald  nicht  vergessen,"  sagte  Felix 
traumend.     "  Ich  bin  so  kostlich  mude." 

"  Kostlich  mude  ! "  wiederholte  Harold,  welcher  rauchend 
auf  den  Stufen  der  Veranda  sass.  "  Krumm  und  steif  war  ich, 
als  ich  zuerst  hierher  kam.  Ich  war  aberauch  alter  als  du  und 
nicht  so  frisch." 

"Und  doch  war  die  korperliche  Arbeit  f ur  dich  nicht  die 
harteste,"  nahm  Petra  das  Wort — sie  benutzte  den  letzten  Schein 
des  Tages,  um  einen  Strumpf  fertig  zu  stopfen —  "  sondern  die 
andre,  die  Arbeit  an  dir  selbst." 

"  Die  war  noch  barter,"  lachte  Harold,  "  Vater  Johannes  hat 
mich  gehorig  in  die  Zucht  genommen." 

''Vater  Johannes?"  wiederholte  Felix  fragend,  doch  seine 
Blicke  hingen  an  Rosaly,  welche  am  Gitter  stand.  Da  sah  er 
plotzlich  die  schlanke,  etwas  gebuckte  Gestalt  eines  Mannes 
neben  ihr,  dessen  Nahen  er  nicht  bemerkt  hatte.  Derselbe 
nahm  seinen  Hut  ab  und  kusste  Rosaly  auf  die  Stirne.  Felix 
fuhr  von  seinem  Sitz  auf,  Harold  begriisste  den  Ankommling 
als  "Vater  Johannes"  und  stellte  Felix  als  einen  "Freund"  vor. 

Der  Jungling  fuhlte  seine  Hand  von  einer  schmaleren  Hand 
fest  umfasst,  ein  Paar  tief liegende  graue  Augen  unter  schwarzen 
zusammengewachsenen  Brauen  waren  durchdringend  auf  ihn 
gerichtet. 


8l6  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Er  sei  willkommen  ! "  sagte  eine  weiche  Stimme. 

Der,  dem  sie  gehorte  und  den  man  Vater  Johannes  nannte, 
konnte  nicht  alter  als  vierzig  jahre  sein  ;  als  ersich  von  Felix 
abwandte,  bewunderte  dieser  sein  regelmassiges,  wie  in 
Marmor  geschnittenes  Profil ;  der  Mund,  der  es  gewagt  hatte, 
Rosaly  auf  die  Stirn  zu  kussen,  blieb  in  einem  dunklen  Bart 
verborgen,  aber  der  Wollaut  der  Worte,  weiche  er  gesprochen, 
weilte  noch  wie  ein  Zauber  in  ihrer  Mitte. 

Petras  und  Harolds  Gesichter  druckten  Zufriedenheit  aus 
uber  den  giinstigen  Eindruck,  welchen  Felix  anscheinend 
gemacht  hatte. 

"  Ich  wohne  auf  jenem  Riff  dort,"  sagte  Vater  Johannes, 
*'  und  werde  mich  freuen,  dich  bei  mir  zu  sehen." 

Er  wies  auf  die  hochste  Erhebung  des  felsigen  Seeufers, 
weiche  das  Land  jenseits  des  Baches  ebenso  beherrschte,  wie 
das  Farmhaus  mit  seinen  Wirtschaftsgebauden  das  Land 
diesseits. 

Ohne  auf  Felix'  Antwort  zu  warten,  wandte  sich  Vater 
Johannes  wieder  zum  Gehen.  Harold  und  Petra  folgten  ihm 
vor  das  Gitter.  Nach  kurzer  Besprechung  mit  ihnen  ver- 
schwand  er  in  der  Dammerung. 

"  Er  ist  ein  Held/'  rief  Petra.  "  Seitdem  er  vor  drei  Jahren 
unser  Fuhrer  geworden,  Ruhm  und  Ansehen  der  Welt  auf- 
gebend,  um  im  Stillen  Gutes  zu  tun,  hat  manches  gescheiterte 
Herz  hier  Rettung  gef unden  und  manches  andre  eine  Zuflucht, 
noch  ehe  es  gescheitert." 

Alle  schwiegen,  und  es  war,  als  ob  er  noch  unter  ihnen 
weilte. 

Felix  trat  zu  Rosaly,  weiche  die  Winden  um  die  Stutzen  der 
Veranda  flocht,  und  sein  Blick  folgte  ihren  Fingern.  Er  fuhlte, 
es  waren  Finger  von  leiser  Beruhrung. 

"  Bitte,  geh,"  bat  sie,  "  und  hole  mir  die  Giesskanne  vom 
Brunnenl" 

Als  er  sie  gebracht,  dankte  sie,  goss  das  Wasser  uber  die 
Blumen  und  schritt  dann  dem  Hofe  zu. 

« 

Einige  Tage  waren  verflossen,  da  ging  Felix  eines  Nach- 
mittags  den  sonnigen  Abhang  vom  Farmhaus  hinab,  und  trat 


IM   NEUEN   LEBEN.  817 

mit  dem  Bach  in  den  Wald  ein.  Die  Zweige  waren  dicht 
verschlungen  uber  ihm,  als  hiitten  sie  ein  Geheimnis  zu 
bewachen,  und  Felix  schritt  spahend  unter  ihnen  hin.  Nur 
hier  und  da  drang  ein  Sonnenstrahl  schrag  durch  das  Laub  bis 
ins  Herz  der  Schlucht,  dann  leuchtete  das  Moos  in  dem 
kuhlen  Grunde.  Der  Bach  glitt  rastlos  dahin,  in  jedem 
Winkel,  unter  jedem  Stein  und  unter  jedcr  Wurzel  suchend 
und  immer  suchend  ;  neben  dem  Bach  wand  sich  der  schmale 
Pfad  wie  ein  Faden  durch  die  Baume,  und  ihm  folgte  FeHx, 
als  ob  er  ihn  vorwiirts  zoge.  Jemand  wandelte  ihm  entgegen, 
aber  er  konnte  nicht  horen,  denn  unter  dem  leisen  Schritt 
bogen  sich  die  Reiser  und  brachen  nicht. 

Es  war  Rosaly. 

Sie  kamen  sich  naher  und  trafen  sich. 

"  Ich  habe  nach  dir  gesucht/'  sagte  er,  und  das  Wasser  des 
Baches  murmelte  :  "  Ich  habe  nach  dir  gesucht ",  und  die 
Blatter  an  den  Zweigen  uber  ihnen  trafen  sich  und  beriihrten 
sich  zitternd  wie  junge  Herzen. 

Er  kehrte  mit  ihr  um,  und  sie  wanderten  nebeneinander  auf 
dem  schmalen  Pfade,der  unter  ihren  Fussen  zu  versinken  schien. 

"  Ich  habe  immer  nach  dir  gesucht." 

*'  Du  kanntest  mich  ja  nicht." 

*'  Ich  habe  mich  immer  nach  dir  gesehnt." 

"  Und  wenn  du  mich  nicht  gefunden  hattest  ?" 

"  Hatte  ich  ewig  gesucht. — Hast  du  nicht  auch  an  mich 
gedacht  ?     Hast  du  mich  nicht  erwartet  ?  " 

Sie  schuttelte  den  Kopf. 

"  Rosaly,"  rief  er.  "  Ich  bin  mit  der  Sehnsucht  nach  dir 
geboren,  ich  trage  dein  Bild  im  Herzen,  ich  suche  dich  uber 
die  ganze  Welt  hin — und  du  erkennst  mich  nicht  ?  " 

"  Wie  soil  ich  dich  erkennen  ?  " 

"  Wenn  ich  deine  Hand  fasse,  fuhlst  du  nicht,  als  ob  unsere 
Seelen  selbst  sich  beruhren  ?  " 

Er  kniete  vor  ihr  nieder  und  umschlang  sie.  Sie  zitterte  in 
seinen  Armen,  doch  blickte  sie  vertrauensvoll  zu  ihm  hinab 
und  legte  ihre  kuhle  Hand  auf  seine  heisse  Stirne. 

"  Wie  du  mich  erquickst ! "  murmelte  er,  druckte  ihr  Kleid 
an  seine  Lippen  und  blickte  verehrend  zu  ihr  auf.  '*  Mein 
Herz  ist^voll  von  dir  wie  der  Himmel  voller  Blau  ist." 


8l8  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Aber  das  Blau  verblasst,  und  die  Wolken  und  die  Nacht 
kommen,"  sagte  sie. 

"  Lass  sie  kommen.     Die  Liebe  bleibt  uns." 

"Nein,  Alles  wird  uns  genommen,  Alles  gleitet  dahin  :  mein 
Vater  starb  und  mein  Bruder  starb,  und  seitdem  wage  ich  es 
nicht  mehr,  zu  lieben." 

''  Aber  jetzt  wirst  du  es  wagen  ?  " 

Ihr  Atem  stockte,  sie  erbleichte. 

Es  war  stiller  um  sie  geworden.  Das  Gemurmel  des 
gleitenden  Baches  klang  in  der  Dammerung  nur  noch  wie  ein 
Echo  seiner  selbst. 

Sie  wanderten  weiter,  er  driickte  die  Zweige  zur  Seite,  unci 
blickte  ihr  selig  in  die  Augen,  endlich  ergriff  er  ihre  Hand  und 
hielt  sie  an  sein  Herz. 

"  Es  spricht  laut,"  sagte  sie. 

''  Was  sagt  es  ?  " 

"  Es  ist  froh." 

"Unddeins— ?" 

"  Ist  still." 

"  Sagt  es  nichts  ?  " 

Sie  blickte  von  ihm  fort  :  "  Ja,  es  sagt  etwas  ganz  leise,  aber 
ich  kann  nicht  sagen,  was." 

Als  Rosaly  am  Abend  die  Kinder  zu  Bett  gebracht  hatte, 
und  in  ihr  Zimmer  geschlupft  war,  das  neben  Petras 
lag,  da  stiess  sie  die  Fensterladen  auf  und  folgte  mit  ihren 
Augen  dem  Bach  und  dem  Pfad,  die  nebeneinander  in 
die  Schlucht  zogen.  Sie  waren  jetzt  draussen  kaum  mehr 
zu  sehen,  aber  in  ihrem  Herzen  waren  sie  noch  hell  genug 
beleuchtet. 

Plotzlich  offnete  Petra  die  Tur  und  sagte  :  "  Gute  Nacht, 
mein  Kind." 

Rosaly  erhob  sich,  ging  zu  ihrer  Mutter,  schlang  ihre  Anne 
um  sie  und  hielt  ihren  Kopf  hin,  um  von  ihr  gekusst  zu  werden, 
aber  Petra  merkte  nichts,  bis  Rosaly  mit  einem  Mai  sie  an  sich 
presste  und  an  ihrer  Brust  schluchzte.  Da  nahm  Petra  ihr 
Kind  in  ihren  Armen  auf. 

"  Ach,  liebe  mich,"  rief  Rosaly. 

'Mch  liebe  dich,"  sagte  Petra.  "Mein  Mutterherz  wacht 
und  sorgt  um  dich." 


IM   NEUEN    LEIiEN.  819 

"  Ich  mochte  geliebt  werden,"  schluchzte  das  Miidchen, 
"  und  lieben,"  setzte  sie  leise  hinzu. 

"  Der  Herr  offnet  dein  kleines  Herz,  mein  Kind,"  sagte 
Petra. 

"Ja"  fliisterte  Rosaly.  Sie  wartete,  als  wollte  sie  mehr 
sagen  oder  horen,  und  dann  rief  sie  :  "  Ach,  du  weisst  es 
nicht,  und  ich  kann  es  nicht  sagen." 

"  Ja,  Kind,  ich  weiss  alles.  Eine  grosse  Liebe  ist  in  dein 
Herz  gedrungen." 

Das  Madchen  sah  ihre  Mutter  fragend  an.  **  Ich  weiss 
nicht,"  sagte  sie  verlegen. 

"  Nun,  ich  weiss  es,  mein  Kind,  und  du  wirst  es  mit  der  Zeit 
begreifen,  denn  diese  Liebe  wird  wachsen  und  wachsen,  bis 
sie  dich  ganz  erfiillt  mit  Leben  und  Seligkeit,  bis  Jeder  sie  in 
dir  fiihlt,  und  wo  immer  du  Jemandem  helfen  kannst,  wird 
dein  Herz  zu  ihm  ausgehen." 

''  Zu  Jedem  ?  "  fragte  Rosaly. 

"  Ja,  zu  Jedem,"  antwortete  Petra  und  kusste  ihre  Tochter 
auf  die  Stirn. 

Als  Rosaly  ihre  einfachen  Gewander  auf  den  Stuhl  am 
Fenster  legte,  und  ihren  Zopf  flocht,  dachte  sie  noch  an  die 
Worte  ihrer  Mutter ;  aber  als  sie  auf  ihrem  Kissen  lag  und 
schlummerte,  sah  sie  Felix  die  Zweige  zuriickbiegen  und  zu 
ihr  herabsehen ;  sie  hielt  ihr  Herz  geschlossen  wie  eine  Knospe, 
doch  war  es  eine  Knospe,  die  anfing  zu  duften  und  allmahlich 
traumte  sie,  dass  sie  Felix  folgte,  wenn  auch  zogernd. 

*  ♦ 

Am  nachsten  Tage  bei  der  Arbeit  war  Felix  wie  im  Traum 
in  seinen  Bewegungen  behindert ;  geblendet  von  dem,  was  in 
seiner  Seele  vorging,  nahm  er  die  aussere  Welt  nur  wie  ein 
Schattenspiel  wahr.  So  warf  er  schliesslich  die  Heugabel  fort 
und  sank,  abseits  von  den  Andern,  am  Rande  des  hohen 
Ufers,  auf  einen  Heuhaufen  nieder,  um  ihn  und  in  ihm  nichts 
als  Sonnenschein  und  blauer  Himmel,  bis  ein  Schatten  iiber 
ihn  fiel  und  eine  Gestalt  vor  ihm  stand,  in  welchcr  er  Harold 
erkannte.  Felix  nickte  ihm  zu,  ohne  sein  gliickliches  Lacheln 
zu  verbergen. 

"  So  glucklich  ?  "  sagte  Harold. 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXVIl.  W 


820  COSMOPOLIS. 

Der  Jiingling  blickte  mit  klaren  Augen  zu  ihm  auf.  "  Hat 
mich  nicht  der  Schopfer  geschaffen,  seinen  Sonnenschein  und 
seinen  blauen  Himmel  in  meiner  Seele  zu  spiegeln  ! " 

'*  Weiter  nichts  als  das?"  fragte  Harold,  ''nicht  einmal 
Wolken  und  Klippen  ?  " 

'*  Nein/'  entgegnete  Felix.  "  Meine  Seele  ist  wie  ein  See, 
der  auf  alien  Seiten  vom  blauen  Himmel  begrenzt  wird." 

"  Als  ich  jung  war,  habe  ich  das  auch  geglaubt,  wenn  ich  in 
einem  kleinen  Kahne  auf  dem  Rucken  lag,"  bemerkte  Harold, 
"  und  ich  bin  doch  gerade  in  die  Brandung  hineingesegelt.— 
Willst  du  nicht  arbeiten  ?  " 

"  Lass  mich  ruhen !  nur  heute,"  bat  Felix,  *'  ich  werde 
morgen  das  Versaumte  nachholen.  Vielleicht  schreibe  ich 
auch  Briefe  in  die  Heimat,  ich  muss  doch  endlich  einmal 
schreiben." 

Und  damit  stand  er  auf  und  streifte  sich  das  Heu  ab. 
*'  Adieu,  Harold.  Jetzt  habe  ich  genug  Sonne,  jetzt  gehe  ich 
durch  die  Schlucht  nach  dem  Farmhaus." 

Er  driickte  Harolds  beide  Hande.  Der  schaute  ihm  nach- 
denklich  nach. 

Tief  aufatmend  trat  Felix  unter  die  Baume.  Auf  der  Brucke 
die  i'lber  den  Bach  fiihrte,  blieb  er  stehen. 

"  Wo  war  Rosaly  ?  " 

Seine  Blicke  folgten  dem  Bach,  der  zum  See  hinabfloss, 
er  iiberlegte,  dann  ging  er  hinab  zum  Gestade.  Da  stand  er 
auf  dem  schmalen  Ufersaume,  vor  ihm  der  blaue  See  ohne 
Segel,  der  blaue  Himmel  ohne  Wolken,  nur  die  schroffen 
Uferfelsen  warfen  ihren  Schatten  iiber  das  Wasser  ;  das  Einzige, 
was  sich  bewegte,  waren  die  Moven  in  der  Hohe,  auf  deren 
Fittichen  die  Sonne  glanzte,  und  der  Schaum  am  Strande, 
der  um  die  Kiesel  spiilte.  Wer  wiirde  ihm  verraten,  was  er 
wissen  wollte,  die  Moven  in  der  Hohe  oder  der  Schaum  am 
Strande  ?  Hier  und  da  waren  die  feuchten  Kiesel  von  einem 
Streifen  weichen  trocknen  Sandes  umsaumt.  Felix  wandte 
sich  zur  Linken  und  hatte  nur  wenige  Schritte  getan,  da 
kniete  er  nieder,  eine  leichte  Spur  im  dunnen  Sande,  ein  leises 
Zeichen  —  er  eilte  weiter. 

Als  er  den  nachsten  Vorsprung  des  Ufers  erreicht,  blieb 
er  erschrocken  stehen.     In  einer  engen  Bucht,  zwischen  zwei 


IM   NEUBN   LEBEN.  82 1 

Felsenvorspriingen,  auf  dem  Sande  sass  sie,  die  er  suchte,  und 
hlickte  iiber  das  Wasser  hin.  Sie  war  wie  an  dem  Morgan, 
am  dem  er  sie  zuerst  gesehen,  nur  mit  Hemd  und  Rock 
bekleidet,  die  Fiisse  waren  bloss,  und  das  Hemd  fiber  die  eine 
Schulter  und  Brust  hinabgeglitten. 

Er  stand  regungslos  am  Felsen,  sein  Herz  pochte  laut. 
Rosaly  nahm  ein  leinenes  Tuch,  das  bei  ihren  Schuhen  und 
bei  ihrem  Kleide  neben  ihr  lag,  und  schlug  es  sich  um 
die  Schultern.  Er  fiihlte,  er  musste  gehen,  aber  er  konnte 
nicht. 

"  Rosaly." 

Er  sagte  ihren  Namen  so  lifeb,  so  bescheiden,  dass  sie 
freundlich  zu  ihm  aufsah.  Er  ging  einige  Schritte  auf  sie  zu, 
wie  um  sich  zu  entschuldigen. 

"  Ich  wusste  nicht/'  stammelte  er. — "  Kommt  denn  sonst 
Niemand  hierher  ?  "  setzte  er  eifersiichtig  hinzu. 

"  Niemand,"  sagte  Rosaly,  die  ihre  Fusse  unter  ihren  Rock 
gezogen  hatte.  "  Nur  Harold  hat  es  vorigen  Sommer  verges- 
sen,  dass  wir  hier  baden,  und  ist  mit  einem  Boot  vorbeige- 
fahren.  Da  sind  alle  Andern  vor  Schrecken  aus  dem  Wasser 
heraus  nach  ihren  Kleidern  gelaufen,  nur  ich  bin  im  Wasser 
geblieben  und  untergetaucht.  Harold  hat  auch  die  Andern 
nachher  geneckt." 

"  Ich  hatte  ein  Gefilhl,  als  ob  du  hier  am  See  warst,  wo  es 
heute  so  gross  und  frei  ist,  und  dann  habe  ich  deine  leisen 
Spuren  im  Sande  gesehen.  Siehst  du,  wie  hier."  Und  er 
warf  sich  hin  und  kiisste  ihre  Fussspur  im  Sande. 

Dann  sass  er  still  neben  ihr  und  hielt  ihre  Hand. 

Alles  schien  unbeweglich.  Sie  sahen  die  Moven  nicht  mehr 
und  horten  das  Wasser  nicht  mehr  rauschen. 

Nach  einer  Weile  bat  sie  :  "  Geh  nun,  ich  will  baden." 

Beide  standen  auf,  er  legte  seinen  Arm  um  sie. 

"Mir  ist,  als  konnte  ich  nicht  allein  zunickfinden  in  die 
Welt." 

"  Dann  gehe  voraus  und  warte  auf  mich," 

"  Bis  du  gebadet  hast  ?  " 

Sie  nickte. 

"  Muss  ich  weit  gehen  ?  " 

Sie  antwortete  nicht. 


822  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Du  meinst,  ich  soil  um  den  Felsen  herumgehen,  damit  ich 
dich  nicht  sehen  kann  ?  Und  wanim  soil  ich  dich  nicht 
sehen  ?" 

Sie  stand  sinnend  vor  ihm. 

"  Wir  sind  doch  nicht  aus  dem  Paradiese  vertrieben  ? " 
sagte  er  leise. 

Sie  erschrak — dann  blickte  sie  ihm  ruhig,  fest  in  die  Augen, 
— dann — band  sie  ihren  Rock  auf,  loste  ihr  Hemd  auf  der 
Schulter  und  liess  es  hinabgleiten. 

Sie  ging  an  ihm  vorbei  und  schritt  durch  das  flache  Wasser 
in  den  See  hinein. 

Er  blickte  ihr  nach,  dann  wandte  er  sich  langsam  zum  Gchen. 
H inter  dem  Felsenvorsprung  wartete  er  auf  sie. 

Als  er  sie,  mit  zum  Trocknen  aufgelostem  Haar  herankommen 
sah,  fullten  sich  seine  Augen  mit  Thranen. 

"  Warum  weinst  du  !  " 

"  Vor  Liebe." 

Ihr  Gesicht  war  sehr  ernst. 

"  Warum  siehst  du  so  ernst  aus  ? "  fragte  er,  fasste  ihre 
beiden  Hande  und  kiisste  sie  leise  auf  den  Mund. 

Auf  der  Veranda  des  Farmhauses  sass  Petra,  mit  hauslicher 
Arbeit  beschaftigt. 

Als  Felix  und  Rosaly  vor  sie  hintraten,  sah  sie  liebevoll  auf. 

"  Rosaly/'  sagte  sie,  "  wir  miissen  Felix  lieben,  damit  er  sich 
zu  Hause  fiihlt  unter  uns."  Dann  fiigte  sie  ernst  hinzu : 
'*  Mache  dich  bereit,  Kind,  und  gehe  nach  dem  Kliffhaus.  Vater 
Johannes  hat  nach  dir  geschickt." 

Rosaly  gehorchte,  Felix  blieb  allein  mit  Petra  zuruck  und  sah 
ihr  eine  Weile  schweigend  zu  bei  ihrer  Arbeit. 

Ihre  Gestalt  war  nicht  so  fein  und  gerade  wie  die  ihrer 
Tochter,  sondern  gewaltiger  und  mebr  in  sich  versunken,  ihre 
Augen  nicht  so  gross  und  klar,  sondern  stahlgrau  und  nach 
innen  gekehrt. 

"  Du  bist  so  ganz  anders  als  andre  Menschen/'  sagte  Felix 
nachdenklich. 

Sie  nahm  seine  Worte  freundlich  auf.  "  Von  klein  auf  hat 
man  mir  gesagt,  dass  ich  anders  ware.     Man  wunderte  sich, 


IM   NEUEN   LEBEN.  823 

dass  ich  als  kleines  Madchen  Kirchen  aus  Sand  formte,  anstatt 
Kuchen,  dass  ich  meine  Schulgefahrtinnen  im  Regen  unter 
meinem  Schirm  um  mich  versammelte  und  ihnen  den  Kate- 
chismus  abfragte,  und  dass  ich  unter  den  Armen  umherging 
und  mit  ihnen  betete.  Meine  Mutter  war  Martha  und  Hess 
mich  als  Maria  aufwachsen.  Aber  jetzt  versuche  ich,  mich 
auch  praktisch  niitzlich  zu  machen/'  setzte  sie  bescheiden 
hinzu. 

"  Wenn  ich  sagte,  du  bist  anders  als  andre  Menschen,  so 
meinte  ich,  du  bist  anders  als  andre  Mutter.  Wer  zu  dir  kame, 
um  die  Hand  deiner  Tochter  zu  werben,  der  miisste  nicht 
sagen  :  '  Ich  liebe  sie,  ich  habe  Geld  oder  Stellung  und  will 
versuchen,  sidgliicklich  zu  machen/  " 

"  Nein,  das  musste  er  nicht  sagen,"  gestand  Petra. 

*'  Er  musste  sagen,"  fuhr  Felix  fort,  '  Ich  liebe  die  Mensch- 
heit  und  will  versuchen,  sie  gliicklich  zu  machen  ;  ich  bin 
bereit,  alles  dafiir  hinzugeben.'  " 

"Du  hast  Recht,  Felix.  Unser  Dasein  ist  nichts.  Unser 
kleines  Leben  hat  nur  Wert  als  Teil  des  grossen  Ganzen. 
Auch  in  unserer  Liebe  zu  einander  miissen  wir  vor  allem 
daran  denken,  dass  wir  im  Dienst  der  Menschheit  stehen  und 
nicht  an  unser  eignes,  selbstisches  Gluck." 

"  Ich  bin  nicht  so  wie  du,"  sagte  Felix.  "  Wenn  ich  liebte> 
wiirde  ich  nur  an  das  Madchen  denken,  das  ich  liebe  " — er  sah 
Rosaly  an,  die  mit  einem  kleinen  Biindel  aus  dem  Hause  kam. 
"  Ich  wiirde  Alles  fiir  sie  tun,  Alles  fiir  sie  aufgeben." 

Rosaly  kiisste  Petra  und  reichte  Felix  die  Hand.  Sie  hatte 
seine  Worte  gehort  und  sah  sein  ehrliches  Gesicht  noch  vor 
sich,  als  sie  iiber  die  Wiese  dem  Kliflfhaus  zuwandelte. 

"  Bleibt  sie  die  Nacht  im  Kliffhaus  ?  "  fragte  Felix. 

"  Jawol  und  langer.  Sie  wird  Vater  Johannes  helfen,  einen 
Kranken  zu  pflegen." 

Da  wurde  Felix  traurig  und  jeder  Schritt  tat  ihm  weh,  der 
sie  von  ihm  entfernte.  "  Ich  werde  sie  begleiten,"  rief  er 
aufspringend.  "Vater  Johannes  hat  mich  aufgefordert,  ihn  zu 
besuchen." 

"  Er   wird  dich  rufen  lassen.     Wir  suchen  ihn  nicht  gern 

auf,  wenn  wir  nicht  wissen,  dass  er  uns  erwartet." 

♦  * 


824  COSMOPOLIS. 

Auf  dem  Kliflf,  wo  Vater  Johannes  lebte,  standen  die  Baume 
gerade  da,  wie  Saulen  eines  Tempels,  zwischen  ihren  Wipfein 
blickten  die  blauen  Augen  des  Himmels  herab.  In  ihrer  Mitte 
stand  ein  schlichtes  Holzhaus.  Vater  Johannes  und  seine 
Freunde  hatten  es  selbst  gebaut. 

Rosaly  trug  sich  aufrecht  wie  diese  Baume. 

V^ater  Johannes  erwartete  sie  im  Garten  vor  dem  Hause. 
Sie  schien  ihm  verwandelt,  als  sie  vor  ihm  stand.  Die  Farbe 
ihrer  Augen  und  Lippen  erschien  ihm  tiefer,  die  Formen 
ihres  Korpers  zeigten  sich  deutlicher  unter  ihrem  einfachen 
Gewande. 

"  Sie  muss  andre  Kleider  tragen,"  dachte  er. 

"  Rosaly,"  sagte  er,  "  du  wirst  ein  Weib." 

"  Ja/'  sagte  sie,  tief  aufatmend,  "  und  ich  bin  froh  darQber." 

''  Warum  Kind  ?  " 

"Ich  weiss  nicht,  Vater  Johannes.  Es  tut  mir  wol,  zu 
fiihlen,  dass  ich  wachse." 

"  Kecht  so,  Madchen,  du  musst  wachsen,  wie  die  Baume 
hier,  gross  und  grade,  himmelwarts." 

Er  nahm  ihre  Hiinde  und  blickte  lange  und  forschend  in 
ihre  Augen.    Sein  Ausdruck  wurde  ernster  und  ernster. 

"  Wo  ist  meine  Rosaly  geblieben  ?  " 

"  Fort,  Vater  Johannes  !  "  und  sie  barg  ihr  Gesicht  schnell 
an  seiner  Schulter. 

"  Aus  meiner  Hut  entwichen  !" 

Sie  nickte. 

"  Auf  Nimmerwiederkehr  ?  " 

Sie  sail  nicht  auf.    Vater  Johannes  zog  sie  an  sich. 

"Vertraue  mir,  Kleine.  Ich  liebe  dich,  nicht  wie  andre 
lieben,  nicht  um  dich  fur  mich  zu  nehmen,  nicht  um  dich  in 
Gefahr  zu  bringen,  nein,  um  dir  zu  geben,  zu  helfen — " 

"  Tun  das  die  Andern  nicht  auch  ?  " 

"  Oh  nein,  die  Liebe  Andrer  wiirde  dich  begehren,  wurde 
dich  pflucken  und  fiir  sich  nehmen." 

"  Ist  das  nicht  gut  ?  " 

"  Nein  Kind,  das  ist  iiberhaupt  keine  Liebe,  das  ist  Hass." 

"  Oh,  Vater  Johannes.  Kann  das  Hass  sein,  was  so  wunder- 
bar  erscheint,  dass  man  leben  mochte,  um  es  zu  haben,  sterben 
mochte,  um  es  zu  geben  ?  " 


IM   NEUEN   LEBEN.  825 

"  Ja,  das  ist  Hass,  von  Vielen  Liebe  genannt.  Der  Jiingling 
kommt  um  das  Madchen  seiner  Wahl  zu  werben,  Beide  sind 
jung  und  glucklich,  die  Sonne  scheint  und  die  Vogel  singen. 
Er  verspricht  ihr  Erde  und  Himmel.  Sie  gibt  sich  selbst,  und 
Alles  ist  verloren." 

"  Verloren  ?     Was  ist  verloren  ?  " 

"  Das  Weih.  Sie  hat  sich  fortgegeben.  Sie  gehort  sich 
nicht  mehr." 

"  Sie  gehort  sich  nicht  mehr  !  Der  JiingHng  gibt  ihr  nichts 
daf iir  ?  " 

"  Oh  ja,  Versprechungen/' 

'*  Er  gibt  sich  nicht  selbst  ?  " 

"  Nein,  Kind.  Die  Welt  verlangt  es  nicht.  Die  Frau  allein 
gibt  ihr  Alles,  gibt  jedes  Anrecht  an  sich  selbst." 

Des  Miidchens  glatte  Brauen  zogen  sich  zusammen.  Sie 
sah  in  Gedanken  Felix'  Gesicht  vor  sich,  horte  noch  seine 
Worte  von  vorhin  und  daneben  sah  sie  Vater  Johannes'  Antlitz, 
horte  sie  Vater  Johannes'  Stimme. 

**  Nichts  dergleichen  soil  jcmals  meiner  Rosaly  nahekommen. 
Sie  braucht  nur  Herz  und  Augen  nach  oben  zu  richten.  und 
mir  zu  vertrauen." 

Rosaly  richtete  ihre  Augen  nach  oben,  aber  es  war  dunkel 
iiber  ihr  geworden  ;  sie  diess  sie  auf  Vater  Johannes'  Antlitz 
ruhen,  aber  sie  fand  nichts  darin,  den  Schmerz  zu  lindern,  den 
sie  aufquellen  fiihlte. 

"  Gibt  es  nichts  Sicheres  ?  nichts,  das  man  nicht  verlieren 
kann?" 

"  Ja  Kind,  das  gibt  es." 

*'  Wo  ist  es  ?  " 

Ihre  dunklen  Augen  waren  vol!  Verlangen,  ihre*  Stimme 
klang  fast  verzweifelt  ernst. 

"  Wir  wollen  darnach  suchen,"  sagte  Vater  Johannes,  ihre 
Hand  ergreifend.  "Aber  nur,  wenn  wir  die  Selbstsucht 
iiberwunden  haben,  konnen  wir  es  finden." 

Rosaly  zog  ihre  Hand  aus  Vater  Johannes'  Hand  und  ging 
ins  Haus. 

Vater  Jt)hannes  wandelte  durch  den  Garten  und  blieb  vor 
einer  Lilie  stehen. 

Rein,  wie  die  junge  Seele,  in  die  er  soeben  geblickt  hatte. 


826  COSMOPOLIS. 

Er  zog  die  Lilie  nikher  an  sich  heran,  um  besser  in  den  Kelch 
zu  sehen,  da  iiel  Blutenstaub  von  den  Dolden  auf  die  weissen 
Blatter.     Vatcr  Johannes  erschrak  und  seufzte  tief  auf. 

"  Es  ist  so  schwer,"  dachte  er,  *'  irgend  etwas  ganz  unberuhrt 
zii  erhalten." 

Xicht  lange  darauf  fiihrte  Harold  Felix  zu  Vater  Johannes. 

"  Weisst  du,  warum  ich  hierhergekommen  ? "  sagte  Felix. 
"  Ich  kam  frisch  von  der  Universitat,  und  mein  Sehnen  war  ein 
solches  Leben  wie  deines,  von  dem  du  mir  erzahltest.  An  den 
grossen  Ereignissen  unsrer  Zeit  hast  du  Teil  genommen  und 
deinen  Beruf  gewechselt,  wie  einen  Handschuh,  weil  du  im- 
mer  durch  deine  Personlichkeit  mehr  warst  als  durch  deine 
Stellung.  Da  wollte  ich  begreifen,  warum  du  auf  der  Hohe 
deines  Lebens  mit  einem  Mai  Mitglied  einer  kleiner  Gemeinde 
von  einfachen  Farmern  gevvorden  bist." 

"  Und  hast  du  es  begriffen  ?  " 

**  Manches.  Dass  die  Widerspruche  des  Lebens  mit  unserra 
innern  Bewusstsein  dir  unertraglich  waren  und  dass  du  ein 
'*  neiies  Leben  "  brauchtest,  verstehe  ich  wol  ;  dass  du  deine 
friihere  geistige  Arbeit  aufgeben,  dich  dem  Urteil  eines 
Andern  unterwerfen  kannst,  verstehe  ich  nicht." 

"Vater  Johannes  hat  mir  die  Augen  geoffnet,  als  ich  ihn 
zufallig  auf  einer  Reise  in  New- York  predigen  horte.  Da  es 
Andern  ebenso  ging  wie  mir,  haben  wir  dieses  Heim  gegrun- 
det,  das  wir  uns  bemiihen,  ganz  mit  dem  Geist  der  Liebe  zu 
durchdringen.  Er  ist  uns  die  Verkorperung  dieses  Geistes, 
gegen  den  es  bei  uns  keinen  Widerstand  gibt.  Sein  Urteil 
hat  sich,  auch  wenn  wir  es  nicht  gleich  verstanden,  als  das 
beste  herausgestellt.  Auch  haben  die  vielen  Gemeinden,  die 
wie  wir  in  Amerika  den  Weg  zu  einem  '  neuen  Leben  '  zu 
finden  suchten,  alle  kurzen  Bestand  gehabt,  wenn  sie  nicht 
einem  Fuhrer  gehorchten.  Durch  unsre  menschlichen 
Schwachen  wi'irde  das  neue  Leben  doch  wieder  dem  alten 
gleich  werden,  wenn  nicht  Vater  Johannes  unsre  Aufrichtig- 
keit  und  Aufopferung  bestandig  auf  die  Probe  stellte.  Wenn 
du  bei  uns  bleibst,  wirst  du  merken,  dass  er  die  geheimsten 
Falten  deiner  Seele  entdeckt  und  sie  da  pruft,  wo  sie  es  am 
Tiefsten  empfindet.     Auch  die  Arbeit  dient  uns  dazu,  unsre 


IM   NEUEN   LEBEN.  827 

Hingebung  zu  beweisen ;  so  sind  wir  zu  jeder  gleich  willig. 
Ich  habe  gern  unsre  Erdbeeren  auf  den  Eisenbahnstationen 
verkauft,  weil  Jemand  es  tun  musste." 

'*  Und  das  Haus  hier  habt  ihr  selbst  gebaut  ?" 

"  Alle  haben  wir  geholfen,  und  den  Schlussstein  dort  iiber 
der  Thiire  haben  wir  zum  Andenken  verkehrt  sitzen  lassen, 
wie  ihn  Petra  eigenhandig  eingesetzt  hat.  Jene  Rose  hat 
Rosaly  gepflanzt." 

"  Rosaly  hat  mitgearbeitet  ?  " 

*'  Eifrig  hat  sie  mitgearbeitet." 

Sie  betraten  das  Haus. 

"  Du  weisst,  wir  haben  einen  Kranken  im  KHflfhaus/' 
bemerkte  Harold  leise.  "  Vater  Johannes  pflegt  ihn  Tag  und 
Nacht." 

Sie  gingen  durch  die  Vorhalle  in  das  Erkerzimmer  ebener 
Erde.  Das  Haus  war  durchweg  innen  geweisst,  das  Weinlaub 
vor  den  Fenstern  war  ein  natiirlicher  Vorhang.  Felix  blickte 
sich  liichelnd  um,  denn  er  sah  in  Gedanken  hier  Rosaly 
hammern  und  schaffen. 

Durch  das  Licht  des  Erkers  geblendet,  bemerkte  er  Vater 
Johannes  nicht,  der  mit  seinem  leisen  Schritt  durch  den 
Vorhang  aus  dem  Nebenzimmer  hereinkam.  Der  betrachtete 
das  lachelnde  Gesicht  des  Jiinglings,  legte  die  Hand  auf 
seinen  Arm  und  fuhlte  die  Muskeln  unter  seinen  F'ingern 
schwellen,  als  Felix  sich  aufrichtete. 

"  Wir  werden  einen  starken  Arm  wie  diesen  nicht  zuruck- 
weisen,  wenn  er  mit  uns  arbeiten  will." 

"Gern  will  ich  arbeiten,  wenn  ich  mit  ganzem  Herzen 
arbeiten  kann.  Ich  habe  in  der  Heimat  keinen  Beruf 
gefunden,  bei  dem  ich  mit  ganzem  Herzen  dabei  sein  konnte. 
Ich  fuhlte,  als  musste  ich  in  die  Feme  ziehen,  um  wachsen 
und  gedeihen  zu  konnen.  Da  gibt  es  zu  handeln,  zu  ent- 
schliessen,  zu  eroberxi,  dachte  ich  ;  wer  weiss,  wo  mein  Schicksal 
auf  mich  wartet,  vielleicht  finde  ich  es  auf  dem  Meere,  auf 
den  Bergen,  in  der  Wuste,  vielleicht  an  den  bliihenden  Ufern 
eines  stillen  Sees — so  bin  ich  ausgezogen,  mein  Gliick  zu 
suchen." 

"Und  mochtest  nun,  wie  mir  Harold  sagt,  bei  uns  bleiben. 
Bei  uns  aber  erobert  nur  Jeder  sich  selbst,  opfert  die  mensch- 


828  COSMOPOLIS. 

liche  Liebe  der  gottlichen  und  gelobt  unbedingten  Gehorsam 
dem  Geist  dieser  gottlichen  Liebe." 

**  Gelobt  unbedingten  Gehorsam  ?  "  wiederholte  Felix. 

"  Sonst  wurde  er  die  Harmonic  storen,  die  unter  uns 
herrschrt.  1st  es  diese  gottliche  Liebe,  die  dich  hier  zuruck- 
hillt,  Oder  die  menschliche  ?  '* 

"  Die  menschliche,"  antwortete  Fehx. 

Die  beiden  Manner  sahen  sich  voU  in  die  Augen,  allmahlich 
verschleierten  sich  Vater  Johannes'  Blicke  und  verloren  sich  in 
die  Feme.     F'elix  schlug  seine  zu  Boden. 

'*  Wird  er  mich  fortschicken  ?"  fragte  er  sich.  "  Hangt  von 
diesem  Manne  mein  Schicksal  ab  ?  " 

Tiefe  Stille  herrschte.  Vater  Johannes  sann  nach,  fast  war 
es  Felix,  als  kampfte  er  mit  sich  selbst.  Dann  sagte  er  mit 
matter  Stimme  :  '*  Die  Entscheidung  ist  noch  zu  friih." 

Harold  gab  F^elix  ein  Zeichen,  ihm  zu  folgen. 

Im  Park  suchte  der  Jiingling  seinen  Freund  zuruckzuhallen 
und  zog  ihn  nach  dem  Rand  der  Klippen,  wahrend  er  sich 
verstohlen  nach  Rosaly  umsah,  aber  diese  erschien  nicht. 

Die  Enttauschung,  dass  er  Rosaly  so  nah  war  und  sie  nicht 
sah,  ging  Felix  sehr  zu  Herzen. 

"  Ich  furchte,  ich  bin  zu  jung  fiir  eure  Lehre  der  Selbst- 
iiberwindung,"  sagte  cr  mit  vor  Erregung  zitternder  Stimme, 
nachdem  sie  eine  Weile  nebeneinander  hergegangen.  "Aber 
wenn  ich  auch  kein  Held  bin  —  ich  kann  vvenigstens  ehrlich 
sein  und  will  nicht  unter  falschem  Vorwand  bei  euch  weilen. 
Deshalb  muss  ich  es  dir  gestehen,  mag  daraus  werden,  was 
woUe,  mein  Herz  ist  jetzt  gerade  so  gross  und  sieht  gerade 
so  aus  wie  —  Rosaly.  Ich  vergesse  die  ganze  Welt  und  kann 
mir  nichts  Seligeres  denken  als  so  die  Welt  zu  vergessen." 

"  1st  das  der  Jiingling,  dem  kein  Beruf  gross  und  frei  genug, 
die  Welt  nicht  weit  genug  war  ?  " 

"Meine  Liebe  ist  nicht  eng.  Ich  fiihle  wie  ein  Tropfen 
Ewigkeit,  der  sich  mit  einem  anderen  Tropfen  Ewigkeit 
vereinigt.  Mag  sein,  wenn  ich  es  auch  jetzt  nicht  begreife, 
dass  eure  Liebe  weiter  ist  und  die  Seele  weiter  fiihrt  als  meine ; 
aber  ich  kann  nicht  lieben,  was  ich  lieben  soil,  nur  was  ich 
lieben  kann,  und  was  ich  lieben  muss." 


IM   NEUEN   LEBEN.  829 

Rosaly  war  im  Krankenzimmer  eingeschlossen  und  war  dort 
viel  mil  Vater  Johannes  zusammen.  Sie  fiihlte  sich  nicht 
geschickt  zur  Pflege  und  wurde  allmahlich  sehr  mude  von  den 
Nachtwachen.  Urn  so  mehr  bewunderte  sie  Vater  Johannes' 
Ausdauer  und  seine  Macht  iiber  die  Menschen.  Er  war  fast 
immer  bei  dem  Kranken,  wenn  sie  da  war,  anscheinend  sogar 
frischer,  weniger  leidend  als  sonst,  und  der  Kranke  schien 
auch  bei  geschlossnen  Augen  sofort  zu  merken,  wenn  Vater 
Johannes  an  sein  Bett  trat.  Bei  der  Beriihrung  seiner  Hand 
wurde  er  ruhiger  und  versank  leichter  in  Schlaf. 

Manchmal,  wenn  Rosaly  vor  Ermiidung  die  Augen  zu- 
fielen,  legte  Vater  Johannes  auch  auf  ihre  Stirn  oder  auf 
ihre  Hand  seine  Hand.  Sie  mochte  es  nicht,  aber  sie  liess 
es  sich  nicht  merken,  sondern  machte  nur  bald  die  Augen 
auf  und  suchte  sich  zu  erheben.  Dann  driickte  er  sie 
wol  auf  den  Stuhl  zuriick  :  "  Du  musst  ein  wenig  schlafen. 
Kind/' 

"  Ich  kann  nicht  schlafen,  Vater  Johannes,"  sagte  sie,  wenn 
sie  auch  noch  so  miide  war. 

Allmahlich  ging  es  mit  dem  Kranken  besser.  Seine  Frau, 
die  ihrer  Angst  und  Aufregung  wegen  von  ihm  ferngehalten 
wurde,  aber  doch  einmal  zugegen  war,  als  er  anscheinend 
leblos  dalag  und  nur  unter  der  Beriihrung  von  Vater  Johannes' 
Hand  wieder  atmete,  glaubte  und  verkiindete,  Vater  Johannes 
habe  ihn  gerettet. 

Dieser  schien  sich  seines  Werkes  nicht  zu  freuen,  sondern 
sah  erschopft,  finster  und  leidend  aus.  Er  kam  nicht  mehr 
in  das  Krankenzimmer  und  schien  Niemand  sehen  zu  woUen, 
denn  als  Rosaly  einmal  auf  dem  Corridor  ihm  entgegenkam, 
kehrte  er  um  und  vermied  sie.  Aber  Ruhe  schien  er  nicht 
zu  linden.  Eines  Nachts,  als  Rosaly  in  dem  Zimmer  neben 
dem  des  Kranken  wachte  und  aus  dem  Fenster  blickte,  sah 
sie  ihn  den  Lichtschein,  der  auf  den  Rasen  fiel,  (iberschreiten. 
Endlich  blieb  er  einmal  vor  ihr  stehen,  als  er  ihr  im  Park 
begegnete,  und  fragte,  ohne  sie  anzusehen  : 

"  Kannst  du  an  mich  glauben  und  mir  vertrauen  ?" 

"  Ich  weiss  nicht." 

'^  Gibt  es  etwas,  das  zwischen  uns  steht.  Kind  ?  Suche 
danach,  in  dir  oder  in  mir,  und  sage  es  mir  oflen." 


830  COSMOPOLIS. 

Rosaly  dachte  nach.  "  Ich  kann  nicht,  Vater  Johannes. 
Es  ist  etwas,  das  ich  fuhle,  aber  nicht  sagen  kann." 

"  Wenn  du  etwas  in  mir  fuhlst,  das  dich  abstosst,  so  muss  es 
da  sein."  Er  gab  Rosalys  Hand  frei.  "  Ich  denke  nicht 
gern  an  die  Not  meiner  eigenen  Seele  und  kein  Andrer  denkt 
daran." 

"  Weil  sie  Alle  glauben,  dass  du  nur  fur  Andre  leidest,  Vater 
Johannes." 

"  Und  so  wird  es  auch  meistens  sein,"  sagte  er,  traurig 
liichelnd. 

Es  schien  dem  Madchen,  als  wunschte  er,  dass  sie  sich  nie 
weit  und  nie  lange  von  dem  Kranken  entfernte,  und  sie  hielt 
tapfer  aus.  Endlich  aber,  als  die  Besserung  bedeutende  Fort- 
schritte  gemacht,  bat  sie  eines  Nachmittags  um  Urlaub,  den  ihr 
Vater  Johannes  nach  einigem  Zogern  gewahrte. 

Nachdem  sie  ihre  Mutter  im  Farmhaus  besucht  hatte,  ging 
sie  iiber  die  Felder  zu  den  Uebrigen,  die  mit  dem  Schnitt  des 
Getreides  begonnen  hatten.  Alle  fragten  nach  dem  Kranken 
und  sprachen  mit  Begeisterung  von  Vater  Johannes. 

« 
« 

Am  Rande  der  Klippen  fiihrte  ein  schmaler  Weg  durch 
das  hohe  Korn,  etwas  tiefer  als  das  ubrige  Feld.  Diesen 
wandelte  Rosaly.  Felix,  der  sich  von  den  Anderen  zuruck- 
gezogen  und  auf  sie  gewartet  hatte,  holtesie  ein.  Als  der  Weg 
vor  ihnen  bergauf  stieg,  schien  er  jenseits  der  Hohe  in  die 
Wolken  zu  fiihren,  und  es  schien  leicht,  sie  zu  besteigen  und  in 
die  Weite  zu  ziehen.  Dann  fuhrte  er  wieder  bergab  durch  den 
Wald  und  sie  kamen  an  eine  kleinere  Schlucht,  die  kurz  und 
steil  zum  See  abfiel,  ganz  mit  dichten,  hohen  Schachtelhalmen 
und  noch  hoheren  Blumen  erfullt.  Unsichtbar  stromte  das 
Wasser  durch  ihre  Wurzeln  ;  aus  dem  Wasserfall  war  ein 
Bliitenfall  geworden  ;  Schmetterlinge  flatterten  dariiber  hin. 
Sie  flogen  aus  der  Sonne  in  den  Schatten,  aus  dem  Schatten  in 
die  Sonne.  Einer  suchte  sich  von  Spinnenfaden  zu  befreien, 
ein  anderer  kam  und  half  ihm,  dann  flatterten  sie  beide  in  die 
Hohe,  flogen  um  einander  herum  und  kussten  sich  wieder  und 
wieder. 

Lachelnd  schauten  sich  die  beiden  Menschen  an,  und  sahen 


IM   NEUEN    LEBEN.  831 

sich  einer  in  den  Augen  des  andern.     Jedem  war  es,  als  blickte 
ihn  seine  eigene  Seele  an. 

Der  Schatten  zog  allmahlich  iiber  die  bliihenden  Blumen  bin, 
und  die  Schmetterlinge  sassen  jetzt  ganz  still  mit  weitaus- 
gebreiteten  Fliigeln. 

Das  Murmeln  des  verborgenen  Baches  mischte  sich  mit 
dem  Rauschen  am  Strande,  langgestreckte  Wolken  standen 
am  Horizont  und  schwanden  unmerklich  dahin.  Die  Zeit 
schwand  unmerklich  wie  sie. 

Durch  die  Herzen  der  beiden  Menschen  stromte  die 
Sehnsucht  nach  einander,  wie  der  Bach  durch  die  Wurzeln 
der  Blumen. 

Die  Sonne  hatte  schon  einen  weiten  Weg  gemacht,  als  sie 
am  Bach  aufwiirts  kletterten,  um  seinen  Lauf  zu  verfolgen.  In 
einer  Verbreitung  der  Schlucht  schien  sie  langs  des  Wassers 
und  Hess  es  unter  seiner  weichen  Pflanzenhiille  erglanzen  ;  es 
glanzten  auch  die  Netze  unzahliger  Spinnen,  die  den  Insekten- 
schaaren  auflauerten  und  die  kreuz  und  quer  von  beiden  Seiten 
herabhangenden  Baume  ganz  umsponnen  batten.  Die  beiden 
Menschen  verwickelten  sich  in  den  weissen  Faden  und 
versanken  in  dem  welken  Laube.  Sie  atmeten  auf,  als  sie  aus 
dem  Kessel  herausgeklettert  waren  und  Hochwald  vor  sich 
batten,  in  dem  die  ragenden  Stamme  mit  wenig  Unterholz  weit 
auseinanderstanden.  Der  Bach  floss  hier  unterirdisch  und 
kam  erst  im  Kessel  wieder  hervor. 

''Nun  bist  du  auch  voller  Spinneweben  wie  der  Schmetterling 
vorhin,  und  ich  werde  dich  befreien/'  sagte  Felix. 

''  Du  bist  ein  Schmetterling,  nicht  ich,"  erwiderte  Rosaly. 
''  Du  willst  Alles  erfahren,  Alles  geniessen.'' 

"  Mit  dir.' 

"  Das  sagst  du  jetzt.     Der  Jiingling  gibt  nicht  sich  selbst." 

*'  Das  Madchen  gibt  nicht  sich  selbst." 

Er  suchte  sie  festzuhalten,  sie  schuttelte  den  Kopf  und  sagte 
leise  : 

"  Ich  mochte  nichts  lieben,  was  ich  verlieren  kann." 

"  Ich  mochte  nichts  lieben,  was  ich  nicht  immer  wieder 
erobern  muss." 

"Dann  flattern  unsere  Herzen  um  einander  wie  die 
Schmetterlinge." 


832  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Und  kussen  sich." 

"  Und  verlassen  sich." 

"  Und  finden  sich  wieder.  Glaubst  du  im  Ernst,  dass  du 
mich  verlieren  konntest  ?  Ich  fuhle,  als  konnte  ich  dich  nie 
verlieren,  als  waren  wir  ein  Ganzes  und  lebten  nur,  wenn  wir 
zusammen  sind." 

"  Ich  fiihle,  als  konnte  ich  Alles,  was  ich  liebe,  jeden 
Augenblick  verlieren,  und  als  musste  ich  dann  immer  leiden. 
Du  kannst  ja  nicht  leiden,  du  kannst  ja  nur  glucklich  sein." 

"Du  auch,  wenn  du  mit  mir  lebst." 

Sie  sah  ihn  halb  glaubig,  halb  unglaubig  an. 

"  Es  ware  so  selbstsuchtig,  die  Andern  zu  verlassen  und  nur 
an  uns  zu  denken." 

"  Dann  miissten  wir  nicht  weit  gehen,  nicht  wait  von  denen, 
die  du  nicht  verlassen  mochtest." 

"  Konntest  du  hier  bleiben  ?  " 

"  Hier,  ja  !  Hier  im  Hochwald,  am  Bliitenfall,  hier  ein 
kleines  Haus  fiir  uns,  ein  Stuck  Land,  das  wir  selbst  bebauen, 
aber  dort  im  Neuen  Leben — nein.  Wenn  ich  Vater  Johannes 
gehorchen  woUte,  ware  das  Erste,  was  er  verlangte,  dass  ich 
dich  aufgebe. — Und  wenn  nicht — ich  will  dich  von  Niemand 
empfangen,  als  von  dir  selbst." 

"  Auch  nicht  von  Petra  ?  " 

"  Nein. — Petra  verlangt,  ich  soil  Alles  fur  das  Gluck  der 
Menschheit  aufgeben,  ich  aber  bin  zufrieden,  wenn  ich  einen 
Teil  der  Menschheit  gliicklich  mache,  und  dieser  Teil  hist 
du.  Fiir  dich  kann  ich  Alles  aufgeben,  und  ich  wunschte, 
du  auch  fiir  mich." 

"  Nein,  Felix.  Das  kann  ich  nicht.  Mich — vielleicht ;  die 
Andern  nicht.  Nur  das  Beste  kann  mich  befriedigen,  und 
wenn  es  das  Beste  ist,  fiir  die  Andern  zu  leben  und  nicht  fur 
uns,  dann  will  ich  es  tun." 

Als  sie  sich  dem  KliflFhause  naherten,  kam  ihnen  Harold 
entgegen  und  nahm  Felix  mit  sich  nach  dem  Farmhause 
zuruck. 

"  Die  Zeit  der  Priifungen,  von  denen  ich  dir  gesprochen, 
wird  nun  beginnen,  sagte  er." 


IM   NEUEN    LEBEN.  833 

"  Ich  bin  zu  alien  Prufungen  bereit,  um  Rosaly  zu  ge- 
winnen/' 

*'  Du  kannst  sie  nur  gewinnen,  wenn  du  sie  in  unserm 
Sinne  aufgibst.  Da  gerade  mussen  deine  Prufungen 
einsetzen." 

"  Glaubst  du,  dass  ich  mich  so  ganz  verandern  kann  ?  " 

"  Das  Neue  Leben  hat  schon  Wunder  gewirkt.  Wird  es  dir 
denn  so  schwer  werden,  uns  Andre  etwas  mehr  zu  lieben  und 
Rosaly  nicht  weniger,  aber  doch  anders  ?  An  die  Menschheit 
etwas  mehr  zu  denken,  an  dich  selbst  etwas  weniger  ?  " 

"  Ach,  Harold,  das  Gluck  der  Menschheit  ist  so  fern,  die  Wege, 
die  dorthin  fiihren,  sind  so  verborgen  !  Die  Harmonie  zu 
Zweien  aber,  das  fiihle  ich,  ist  erreichbar.  Die  Sehnsucht 
darnach  stromt  iiberall  durch  die  Herzen  der  Menschen,  wie 
das  Wasser  iiberall  durch  die  Wurzeln  rinnt,  und  keine 
Menschenliebe,  keine  Aufopferung  kann  diese  Sehnsucht 
stillen." 

"  Es  ist  Menschenloos,  Felix,  weite  Wege  zu  wandeln  und 
Ziele  zu  erstreben,  die  unerreichbar  scheinen.  Nur  durch 
Aufopferung  kann  das  Hochste  erreicht  werden,  durch  eine 
Aufopferung,  die  nichts  fur  sich  verlangt,  nicht  einmal  Erfolg, 
und  nicht  irre  wird,  wenn  er  ausbleibt.  Auch  dein  Ziel  ist 
nicht  so  nah,  wie  du  denkst.  Starker  als  jene  Sehnsucht, 
von  der  du  sprichst,  ist  in  Rosaly  die  Liebe,  die  das  Neue 
Leben  in  ihr  geweckt  hat.  Du  wirst  sie  nicht  gewinnen,  wenn 
du  dich  nicht  eins  mit  der  Menschheit  und  ihre  Last  auf 
deinen  Schultern  fiihlst.  Eure  junge  Liebe  gibt  euch  Gelegen- 
heit,  ein  grosses  Opfer  zu  bringen,  einen  grossen  Sieg  zu 
erringen." 

"  Und  wir  soUen  glauben,  dass  es  fiir  die  Menschheit 
geschieht  ?  " 

"  Ist  der  Weg  zum  Neuen  Leben  fur  einige  wenige 
Menschen  gefunden,  so  ist  er  fiir  die  ganze  Menschheit 
gefunden,  und  nur  durch  den  Geist  der  Aufopferung  kann  es 
geschehen/' 

"  Und  glaubst  du  nicht,  dass  ihr  durch  diese  Liebe  und 
Aufopferung  unwillkiirlich  auf  falsche  Wege  geraten  konnt  ?  " 

"  Das  wissen  wir  nur  zu  gut.  Die  reinste  Oflfenbarung 
kann   unmerklich  in  Tauschung   iibergehen,  der   feinste   Or- 


834  COSMOPOLIS. 

ganismus  kann  in  Verwirrung  geraten,  aber  die  Reinheit 
unserer  Motive  gibt  uns  die  Gewissheit,  dass  wir  uns  viel- 
leicht  verirren,  aber  nicht  verlieren  konnen.  Auf  die  Motive 
kommt  Alles  an,  und  in  unsrer  Gemeinde  soil  nur  die  Liebe 
herrschen,  die  nichts  fur  sich  begehrt,  als  zu  opfern  und 
geopfert  zu  werden.  Bis  diese  auch  in  dir  herrscht,  fordere 
ich  dich  im  Auftrag  von  Vater  Johannes  auf,  von  Rosaly  fern 
zu  bleiben." 

"  Und  wahrenddessen  soil  sie  bei  Vater  Johannes  sein.  1st 
es  denn  nicht  moglich,  dass  auch  Vater  Johannes  sie  liebt  ?" 

*'  Gewiss  liebt  er  sie  und  vielleicht  unendlich  mehr  als  dii 
und  mit  einer  Liebe,  die  weniger  verganglich  ist  als  deine." 

•  « 
« 

Rosaly  schlief  in  dem  Zimmer  neben  dem  des  Kranken.  Seit 
einiger  Zeit  hatte  er  sie  nicht  mehr  gerufen,  und  Vater  Jo- 
hannes war  nicht  mehr  zu  ihm  gekommen.  Da  erwachte  sie 
eines  Nachts  mit  einem  Gefiihl  der  Angst  und  sah  beim  fahlen 
Schein  des  hellen  Himmels  uber  sich  Vater  Johannes'  Gesicht. 

"  Was  gibt  es,  Vater  Johannes  ?  "  wollte  sie  halb  im  Schlafe 
fragen,  da  merkte  sie,  dass  er  sich  dicht  uber  sie  beugte,  sie 
fest  ansah  und  mit  den  Handen  (iber  ihren  Kopf  strich,  wie  er 
es  bei  dem  Kranken  getan. 

'*  Was  tust  du,  Vater  Johannes  ?  *'  fragte  sie. 

"  Wir  mussen  dich  pflegen,  wie  wir  den  Kranken  gepflegt 
haben,"  sagte  er. 

Seine  Hande  brannten  sie  und  sie  lag  wie  auf  Nesseln. 

"  Ich  will  nicht." 

"  Die  Pflege  hat  dich  doch  mehr  angegriffen,  als  du  denkst. 
Aber  wir  werden  dich  schon  wieder  herstellen.  Fur  heute 
schlafe  wol.  Kind."  Er  strich  ihr  die  Haare  aus  dem  Gesicht 
und  richtete  sich  auf. 

Rosaly  machte  sich  Vorwiirfe,  dass  sie  so  abweisend  gespro- 
chen,  umsomehr,  da  sie  merkte,  dass  Vater  Johannes  an  sie 
jetzt  fast  noch  mehr  dachte  als  an  den  Kranken  ;  dieser  wurde 
mehr  der  Sorge  seiner  Frau  uberlassen.  Rosaly  bekam  ein 
Zimmer  am  Ende  des  Corridors,  musste  fur  Vater  Johannes 
Briefe  schreiben  und  mit  ihm  Spazirgange  im  Park  machen. 
Immer,   wenn   sie  an   jene   Nacht  dachte,   uberkam   sie  ein 


IM   NEUEN   LEBEN.  835 

Gefiihl  der  Scham,  sie  glaubte,  es  war  die  Erinnerung  an  ihr 
eignes  unfreundliches  Wesen. 

Vater  Johannes  sprach  viel  mit  ihr  dariiber,  dass  die  Frau 
jetzt  niehr  als  vorher  ihren  Flatz  im  Kampfe  fiir  das  Wol  der 
Menschheil  aiisfullen,  dass  ihr  EinHuss  dem  Priiizip  der 
selbstlosen  Liebc  gegen  das  der  selbslsiichtigen  in  der  Welt 
zum  Siege  verhelfen  miisse. 

Mehr  und  mehr  sprach  er  audi  von  sich  sclbst. 

*'  Bei  der  Verantwortung,  die  aiif  mir  lastet,  ist  es  so  schwcr, 
nieine  Seele  immer  ungetriibt  zu  erhalten.  Oft  denke  ich, 
wenn  du  mir  halfest,  konnte  ich  mich  hoher  erheben 
und  in  dir  eine  Kraft  und  Stiitze  finden,  die  kein  Andrer  mir 
geben  konnte.  Meine  geheimsten  Schwachen  musstcst  du 
kennen,  und  es  sollte  dir  nichts  verborgen  bleiben.  Wie  du  in 
manchen  Dingen  mein  Kind  bist,  so  muss  ich  in  andern  deines 
werden,  und  ich  durste  danach,  von  dir  die  Geheimnisse  der 
Frauennatur  in  mich  aufzunehmen,  von  denen  die  Welt  noch 
nichts  weiss,  und  die  ich  nur  von  dir  lernen  kann." 

Vater  Johannes  hatte  einen  grossen  Zauber  der  Rede,  den 
empfand  Rosaly  und  folgte  ihm,  soweit  ihrer  Natur  entsprach, 
was  er  sagte  —  nicht  weiter.  Sie  dachte  unabliissig  nach  iiber 
das,  was  sie  horte,  sie  dachte  nach  iiber  Vater  Johannes,  i'lber 
P'elix,  iiber  die  Gemeinde  und  versuchte,  sich  nach  ihrer  Art 
iiber  AUes  klar  zu  werden,  auch  uber  ein  Gefiihl  der  Qual,  das 
sie  jetzt  haufig  empfand,  und  das  sie  nicht  begreifen  konnte. 

Eines  Nachts,  als  sie,  wie  so  oft,  schlaflos  den  Kopf  auf  den 
Arm  gestiitzt,  in  ihrem  Bett  lag,  sah  sie  den  Vorhang  sich 
bewegen,  der  ihr  Zimmer  vom  Flur  trennte,  und  herein  trat 
Vater  Johannes.     Er  war  leichenblass. 

"  Wachst  du  auch  ?  "  sagte  er.  **  Fiihlst  du  das  Gewilter, 
das  iiber  den  See  heraufzieht  ?  Ich  stand  unten  im  Erker  aui 
P'enster,  es  war  mir,  als  ob  die  schwarze  Wolke  sich  auf  meine 
Seele  walzte,  als  ob  die  elektrischen  Krafte  der  Atmosphare 
in  mir  zuckten  und  mich  entnervten.  Der  Boden  wankte 
unter  meinen  P'iissen,  ich  verlor  fast  die  Besinnung.  Da 
dachte  ich,  ich  wiirde  dich  wxcken,  und  du  wiirdest  mir 
beistehen.'' 

"  Ich  werde  aufstehen  und  gleich  zu  dir  kommen,"  sagte 
Rosaly. 

VOL.  IX. — NO.  XXVII.  \V> 


836  COSMOPOLlS. 

Sobald  er  hinter  dem  Vorhang  verschwunden,  sprang  sie 
auf  uiid  stand  in  ihrem  langen  weissen  Nachthemd  vor  dem 
Bett.     Da  kehrte  er  noch  einmal  zuriick. 

"  Gib  mir  ein  Glas  Wasser,  Rosaly,  mir  ist,  als  oh  ich 
erstickte." 

Sie  schenkte  ihm  an  ihrem  Nachttisch  ein  Glas  Wasser  ein. 
Er  folgte  ihren  Bewegungen  mit  den  Blicken.  Als  sie  ihm  das 
Glas  reichte,  liel  es  aus  seiner  Hand  zu  Boden.  Es  war 
Rosaly,  als  horle  sie  seine  Zahne  aneinander  schlagen,  ^ie 
wiirde  ernstlich  besorgt  um  ihn. 

**  Soli  ich  nichl  lieber  nach  dem  Farmhaus  gehen  und 
Jemand  zum  Doktor  schicken  ?  " 

**Nein.  Es  ist  mehreine  Krankheitder  Seele  als  des  Korpers, 
und  du  kannst  mir  mehr  helfen  als  der  Doktor.  Setze  dich 
auf  den  Stuhl  am  Fenster,  lass  mich  vor  dir  knieen,  und  hore 
meine  Beichte,  wie  ich  so  oft  die  Beichte  Andrer  gehort  habe. 
Es  ist  falsch  zu  glauben,  dass  die,  die  am  hochsten  streben, 
nicht  der  Versuchung  ausgesetzt  sind  ;  sie  sind  es  vielleicht 
mehr  als  andre,  und  ich  fuhle,  als  ob  ich  erliegen  miisste, 
wenn  du  mir  nicht  hilfst.  Das  Heiligste,  was  ich  in  irdischer 
Gestalt  kenne,  flosst  mir  eine  gliihende  Leidenschaft  ein.  Es 
ist,  als  ware  mein  ganzes  Leben  ausgeloscht  mit  seinera 
Kingen  und  Streben. 

*^  Was  kann  ich  fiir  dich  tun,  Vater  Johannes  ?  '* 

**  Lege  deine  Hand  auf  meine  Stirn,  vielleicht  kannst  du 
mir  helfen." 

Sie  tat  es  und  merkte,  dass  der  Mann,  der  vor  ihr  kniete, 
w  ic  vom  Fieber  geschuttelt  wurde. 

"  Ich  kann  dir  nicht  helfen,  Vater  Johannes,"  sagte  sie  und 
wandte  sich  von  ihm  ab. 

Sie  ging  in  ihr  friiheres  Zimmer  und  bat  die  Frau  des 
Kranken,  die  jctzt  dort  schlief,  sie  in  ihr  Bett  aufzunehmen. 

Am  Morgen  schniirte  sie  ihr  Bundel  und  kehrte  ins 
Farmhaus  zuruck. 

« 

So  waren  Felix  und  Rosaly  wieder  im  Farmhaus  zusammen, 
aber  Harold  und  Petra  beobachteten  sie  und  liessen  sie  nicht 
zu  einander  kommen. 

Erst  am  niichsten  Morgen  sah  Felix  von  seinem  Fenster  aus 


IM   NEUEN   LEBEN.  837 

das  Miidchen  allein  auf  der  Veranda  stehen.  Es  war  wieder  so 
still  und  einsam  wie  am  ersten  Tage,  und  er  eilte  zu  ihr 
hinunter. 

"  Du  bist  so  traurig,  kann  ich  dir  nicht  helfen  ?  " 

"  Du  kannst  mir  nicht  helfen,  ebenso  wenig  wie  ich  dir 
helfen  kann  oder  irgend  Jemandem." 

"Wenn  zwei  Menschen  sich  so  lieb  haben  wie  wir  beide — " 

Rosaly  blickte  fort. 

"  Dann  konnen  sie  sich  helfen." 

Rosaly  schwieg,  aber  Felix  fiihlte,  es  war  kein  Schwei^eii, 
das  sie  vereinigte. 

Nach  einer  Weile  sagte  Rosaly  mit  leiser  tonloser  Stimnic  : 
"  Ich  glaube,  es  muss  jeder  ganz  allein  stehen.  Es  kennt  einer 
den  Andern  so  wenig,  auch  wenn  wir  noch  so  lange  glauben 
uns  zu  kennen,  und  ich  konnte  es  nicht  ertragen,  enttauscht  /u 
werden." 

"  So  hast  du  dein  Vertrauen  verloren  ?  So  sind  auch  wir 
aus  dem  Paradiese  vertrieben  ?  " 

Rosaly  nickte. 

"  Und  gerade  dort,  in  jenem  Allerheiligsten  da  oben,  hast 
du  dein  Vertrauen  verloren  ! " 

Schweigend  standen  sie  nebeneinander.  Felix'  Mund  zo^ 
sich  herbe  zusammen,  seine  Augen  wurden  dunkel  vor  Leid. 

"  Wirst  du  dich  wehren,"  sagte  er.  "  Wenn  ich  dich  leise, 
unmerklich  zuriickfiihre,  mogen  auch  Jahre  dariiber  ver- 
gehen  ?  " 

Sie  sah  ihn  unglaubig  an. 

"  Zuriickfiihre  in  unser  Paradies  ?  Wenn  wir  nur  wieder  so 
nebeneinander  gehen,  wenn  nur  deine  Augen  mich  wieder  so 
ansehen  konnen,  wie  noch  vor  kurzem  !" 

"  Das  kommt  nicht  wieder,  Felix.  Das  ist  voriiber,  als  waren 
Jahre  vergangen." 

"  Du  bist  nur  in  Spinnweben  gefangen  wie  damals  der 
Schmetterling.  Ich  werde  dich  befreien,  und  wir  werden 
zusammen  aufflattern." 

"  Du  kennst  mich  nicht,  Felix,  und  weisst  nicht,  wie  sehr 
wir  verschieden  sind.  Du  bist  fiir  das  Gliick,  ich  bin  fur  das 
Leiden  geboren,  wir  konnen  uns  treffen,  wie  Tag  und  Nacht, 
aber  wir  konnen  nicht  zusammen  bleiben." 


83H  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Ich  bin  nicht  fiir  das  Gluck,  ich  bin  fur  die  Liebe  geboren. 
Dii  wirst  mich  immer  bei  dir  finden,  und  wirst  begreifen,  dass 
du  mich  nicht  verheren  kannst." 

"  Verheren  oder  nicht,"  rief  Rosaly  aus.  **  Niemand  soil  mir 
zu  nahe  kommen,  und  meine  Seele  soil  frei  sein." 

**  Ich  fiihle,  dass  sie  jetzt  nicht  frei  ist,  sondern  Qualen 
erduldet/'  sagte  Felix  traurig. 

In  diesem  Augenblick  kam  Petra  und  rief  Rosaly  ins  Haus. 

Harold  aber  nahm  Kelix  das  Versprechen  ab,  nicht  rnehr, 
als  durchaus  notwendig,  mit  Rosaly  zu  sprechen.  Auch 
verlangte  er,  Felix  soUte,  wenn  er  bleiben  woUte,  Vater 
Johannes  Gehorsam  geloben. 

Felix  blickte  finster  zu  Boden,  aber  der  Gedanke,  dass  cr 
Rosaly  nicht  allein  lassen   konnte,  iiberwand  alle  Bedenken. 

"Ich  will  es  tun,"  sagte  er,  "doch  ich  behalte  mir  vor, 
mein  Gelobnis  zuriickzunehmen,  wenn  ich  es  mit  meinera 
Gewiss-en  nicht  mehr  vereinigen  kann." 

'*  Das  moge  fiir  jetzt  genugen,  wenn  auch  nicht  fur  spater. 
Da  musst  du  beweisen,  dass  du  AUes  zu  opfern  vermagst." 

Obwol  Felix  von  der  friihesten  Morgenstunde  bis  zum 
spaten  Abend  die  schwerste  Arbeit  verrichtete  und  in  einer 
entlegenen  Scheune  schlafen  musste,  wachte  er  doch  iiber 
Rosaly  und  wusste  sie  taglich  zu  sehen,  wenn  er  auch  nie  mit 
ihr  sprach.  Er  fiihrte  jeden  Befehl  auf  das  Gewissenhafteste 
aus.  Als  aber  nach  Verlauf  von  zwei  Monaten  Harold  d;is 
Gelobnis  unbedingten  Gehorsams  forderte,  erklarte  er,  dass  er 
die  Gemeinde  verlassen  wiirde. 

Friih  am  Tage  seiner  Abreise  ging  Felix  noch  einmal  an 
den  Bach,  er  hatte  Rosaly  fortgehen  sehen  und  suchte  sie  zum 
letzten  Male.  Manchmal  blieb  er  stehen,  und  spahte  und 
lauschte,  doch  keiner  der  schwankenden  Schatten  nahm  ihre 
Gestalt  an.  Das  Fliessen  des  Baches  klang  vor  ihm  fort,  die 
Wolken  schwanden  weit,  weit,  die  Zweige  der  Striiuche,  die  er 
streifte,  schlugen  ihm  ins  Gesicht.  Als  er  an  den  See  kam, 
dehnte  er  sich  bleiern  aus  und  knirschte  in  den  Kieseln. 
Felix  hatte  fast  die  Hoffnung  aufgegeben,  da  fand  er  Rosaly 
in  jener  Bucht,  in  der  er  sie  schon  einmal  gefunden. 


IM   NEUEN    LEBEN.  839 

Sie  blickten  beide  iiber  das  Wasser,  und  dachten  an  den 
sonnigen  Tag,  an  dem  sie  sich  schon  einmal  hier  getroffen. 

"  Lass  uns  hier  am  Strand  entlang  bis  zum  Bliitenfall 
gehen/'  bat  Felix. 

"  Wenn  wir  um  den  Felsen  dort  herumkommen." 

Sie  kletterten  iiber  Steine,  die  im  Wasser  lagen  und  gelang- 
ten  zu  einer  schmalen  Spalte  in  dem  schroflfen  Felsen.  Dort 
standen  sie  dicht  nebeneinander  und  sahen  sich  zum  ersten 
Mai  wieder  vol!  in  die  Augen  und — in  die  Seele. 

'^  Die  Felsenwande  sind  wie  ein  Grab,"  sagte  Felix,  "  aber 
die  Welt  ist  tot,  und  wir  sind  lebendig." 

Weiter  iiber  die  Steine  schreitend,  erreichten  sie  den 
Ufersaum  wieder  und  bald  darauf  den  Bliitenfall.  Das 
Wasser  quoU  aus  Moos  und  Wurzeln,  verschwand  aber  gleich 
wieder  in  den  aufgehauften  Kieseln,  und  rieselte  verborgen  zu 
ihren  Fiissen,  eine  hohe  Mauer  bliihender  Blumen  Jiing  iiber 
sie  herab. 

'*  Sollen  wir  nicht  auch  bliihen  ? "  rief  Felix,  "  uns  mit 
ganzem  Herzen  lieben  und  alles  Andre  vergessen,  bis  wir  uns 
ganz  vereinigt  haben  ?  Sonst  bleibt  mir  auch  jene  andre  Liebe 
des  '  Neuen  Lebens'  nur  ein  Wunsch  und  keine  Erfiillung." 

'*  Wir  konnen  uns  nicht  vereinen,"  sagte  Rosaly.  "  Es  ist 
nur  ein  Traum.  Wir  finden  uns  nicht,  wir  kennen  uns  nicht. 
Wir  flattern  umcinander  wie  die  Schmetterlinge." 

*'  Und  miissen  uns  doch  immer  suchen  und  immer  sehnen 
und  vereinigen,  so  viel  wir  konnen.  Fiihlst  dudas  nicht  auch, 
jetzt,  wo  wir  uns  trennen  sollen  ?" 

Leise  sagte  sie  :  ''  Ja,  Felix,  ich  fiihle  es." 

''  Und  willst  mir  nicht  folgen  ?  " 

"  Du  kannst  dir  jeden  Wunsch  erfiillen.  Es  ware  so  selbst- 
siichtig,  dir  zu  folgen." 

"Audi  wenn  wir  ein  Stiick  Land  am  Bliitenfalle  kaufen, 
uns  ein  kleines  Haus  bauen,  und  von  unserer  Hande  Arbeit 
lebcn,  den  Rest  unserer  Habe  aber  fiir  Andere  verwenden  ?  " 

"  Es  ist  nicht  nur  das  Geben,  Felix,  es  ist  auch  das  taglich 
fiir  Andere  Leben  und  Denken." 

"  Darin  musst  du  meine  Lehrerin  sein.  Jemehr  du  von  mir 
forderst,  desto  mehr  liebe  ich  dich.  Ich  aber  will  dich  dafiir 
gewinnen,  mit  mir  spiiter  die  Welt  zu  sehen." 


840  COSMOPOLIS. 

"  Dii  tust  Alles  nur  um  meinetwillen,  und  wenn  du  mich 
nicht  mehr  liebst,  wird  es  dir  Leid  tun." 

"  Willst  du  es  daraufhin  wagen  und  mir  folgen,  was  auch 
I^etra  oder  Valer  Johannes  sagen  mogen  ?" 

Sie  sah  ihm  voll  in  die  Augen  :  "  Ja,  Felix,  ich  will  es  tun." 

Sie  stiegen  am  Bliitenfall  empor  und  standen  Hand  in 
Hand  unter  den  hohen  Baumen. 

**  Versprich  mir,  Felix,"  sagte  Rosaly,  "  wenn  du  mich  je 
verlassen  kannst,  dann  musst  du  es  tun." 

W.  Dietrich. 


ZUR  KRITIK  DHS 
SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS. 


IV. 

Sehen  wir  uns  noch  einige  weitere  sozialistische  "  Beweis- 
fuhrungen"  an,  wie  sie  uns  Herr  Liebknecht  vorfiihrt,  urn  uns 
die  Verwirklichung  des  sozialistischen  Zukunftsstaats  plausibel 
/.i\  machen.  Nebenbei  bemerkt  freuen  wir  uns,  dass  Herr 
Liebknecht  wenigstens  eine  terminologische  SchruUe  des 
Marxistischen  Sozialismus  fallen  lasst  und  fiir  das  sozialistische 
Zukunftsgebilde  den  Namen  ''Staat"  nicht  ablehnt.  Er  spricht 
vom  "Gemeinwesen,"  —  "heisse  es  nun  Staat  oder  Gesell- 
schaft,  das  ist  gleichgiltig."  Gewiss !  Nach  der  i'lblichen 
Redeweise  soil  es  freilich  in  Zukunft  keinen  "  Staat "  mehr 
geben.  Derselbe  werde  sich  durch  den  Uebergang  zu  der 
'*  gesellschaftlichen  Produktionsweise "  von  selbst  auflosen. 
Auch  dieser  Nonsens  hat  seine  "Glaubigen  "  gefunden.  Es 
hat  sicher  gerade  bei  einer  Verwirklichung  des  Sozialismus  mit 
der  Abschaffung  des  Striates  seine  guten  Wege  !  Herr  Lieb- 
knecht fallt  freilich  in  seiner  Darlegung,  dass  es  in  Zukunft 
keine  "Regirung,"  sondern  nur  eine  "Verwaltung"  im  Gemein- 
wescn  geben  werde,  in  die  alte  verkehrte  sozialistische 
Auffassung  zuruck.     Doch  davon  spater. 

Er  wie  alle  anderen  Sozialisten  der  Evolutionstheorie  suchen 
mit  der  schillernden  Halbwahrheit  von  Satzen,  wie  "Alles 
fliesst,"  "  Alles  ist  in  Bewegung,"  "  niemals  Stillstand,"  gern  fiir 
ihre  Lehren  Propaganda  zu  machen.  Er  raumt  daher  auch 
richtig  einmal  ein — woruber  die  meisten  Sozialisten  hinweg- 
gehen — nun,  wenn    Alles   im    Fluss   ist,   so   wird    auch    der 


842  COSMOPOLIS. 

sozialistische  Zukunftsstaat  dermaleinst  wieder  anderen  Organi- 
sationsformen  weichen  :  die  sozialistische  Wirtschaftsordnung 
stelle  somit  auch  nicht  schlechtwegs  ** die,*'  sondern  ''cine" 
Zukunft  dar.  Aber  wird  nun  mit  dieser  Redefigiir  des  grie- 
chischen  Philosophen,  dass  "Alles  fliesst,"  im  Grunde  fur  den 
Zukunftsstaat  irgend  etwas  bewiesen  ?  Einmal,  selbst  den 
vorhandenen  wahren  Kern  des  Satzes  zugegeben,  wie  ausneh- 
mend  langsam  in  so  vielen  naturlichen,  aber  auch  in  psychi- 
schen,  sozialen,  wirtschaftlichen  Dingen  sind  eben  doch  diese 
Bewegungen  !  Wie  gewaltig  ist  die  vis  incrtiae  !  Das  Zeit- 
moment  wird  da  viel  zu  wenig  berucksichtigt  und  mit 
geologischen  Perioden  rechnen  wir  doch  einmal  in  menschli- 
chen  historischen  Dingen  nicht.  Die  Ungeduld  so  vieler 
Sozialisten,  die  selbst  schon  noch  das  gelobte  Land  zu  sehen 
hoffen, —  Herr  Liebknecht  beruhrtden  Punkt — hat  schon  viele 
und  wird  sicher  noch  weitere  Enttauschungen  erfahren  und 
voUends  die  Ungeduld  der  Massen  der  Anhanger,  denen  man 
den  grossen  "  Kladderadatsch  "  so  oft  als  nahe  bevorstehend 
verkiindet  hat.  Gut  Ding  will  Weile  haben  —  und  fiir  die 
Herren  Sozialisten  ist  ja  der  Zukunftsstaat  ein  "gut  Ding"  — 
das  sollte  auch  der  Sozialist  nicht  vergessen. 

Sodann  aber:  "AUes  fliesst,  Alles  bewegt,  AUes  verandert 
sich  ! "  Heisst  das  denn  -  mindestens  wieder  in  den 
Zeitraumen,  mit  denen  jede  Menschengeschichte  zu  tun  hat  — 
Alles  veriindert  sich  von  Gntiicl  nits  ?  So  gewaltig,  wie  der 
Sozialismus  annimmt  und  annehmen  muss,  um  seine 
Erwartungen  von  der  Evolution  nicht  von  vornherein  als 
Traumereien  und  Hirngespinste  erscheinen  zu  lassen  ?  Xur 
durch  einen  salto  mortale  vom  Sprungbrett  des  Entwicklungs- 
prinzips  und  des  Satzes  '* Alles  fliesst"  aus  gehmgt  der 
Sozialismus  zu  dieser  Annahme.  Er  begeht  hier  unter 
Anderem  schon  ausserordentliche  Uebertreibungen  in  Betreff 
der  Tragweite  des  aus  der  fortschreitenden  Naturerkenntnis 
folgenden  zukiinftigen  Fortschritts.  Ich  erinnere  an  manche 
Stellen  in  Bebels  "  Frau."  Er  macht  sich  noch  grosserer 
Gedankensprunge  hinsichtlich  seiner  Annahme  von  der 
psychisch-ethischen  Veranderungsfahigkeit  des  Menschen  und 
seiner  gesamten  Motivation,  namentlich  in  der  uns  hier 
beschaftigenden    Frage    des    wirtschaftlichen    Strebens    und 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      843 

Handelns  schuldig.  In  der  Tat :  von  Grund  ans  musste  die 
psychische  Motivation  sich  hier  iindern,  wenn  der  sozial5kono- 
mische  Bau  des  Zukunftsstaats  gelingen,  die  Arbeit  hier  nach 
den  Voraussetzungen  des  Sozialismus  ausgeiibt,  die  Produktion 
der  Gi'iter  durchgefiihrt,  die  Regelung  der  Anteile  der  Indivi- 
duen  an  den  Produktionsergebnissen  der  CoUectivarbeit 
befriedigend  vollzogen  werden  sollte,  —  so  wie  es  nach  der 
Liebknechtschen  Auffassung  vom  obersten  Zweck  des 
Gemeinwesens,  das  moglichste  Wolergehen  jedes  einzelnen 
Gesellschaftsgliedes  zu  verburgen,  geschehen  musste.  Etwas, 
das  auch  nur  halbwegs  als  eine  **  BeweisfUhrung*'  wissen- 
schaftlicher,  hier  insbesondere  psychologischcr  Art  fiir  die 
Annahme  einer  solchen  Veranderungsfahigkeit  der  psychischen 
Motivation  wirtschaftlichen  Strebens  und  Handelns  gelten 
konnte,  habe  ich  in  der  sozialistischen  Litteratur  vergebens 
gesucht,  und  die  Bemerkungen  des  Herrn  Liebknecht  uber 
den  natiirlichen  Arbeitstrieb,  die  ohnehin  nur  das  Produk- 
tions-,  nicht  das  Verteilungsproblem  beriihren,  konnen  doch 
unmoglich  fiir  eine  solche  Beweisfuhrung  passiren.  Auch 
hier  heisst  es  wieder  ;  man  muss  es  eben  —  glauben,  quia 
absitrdnm  est.  An  der  gerade  hier  vorliegenden  Aufgabe  einer 
feineren  Analyse  der  psychischen  Motivation  des  Menschen 
auf  wirtschaftlichen!  Gebiete  geht  der  Sozialismus  einfach 
vorbei,  und  doch  ware  diese  Aufgabe  fi'ir  ihn  die  vollends  hier 
iinidczH  indispensa hie, 

Der  Sozialismus,  auch  Herr  Liebknecht,  will  Alles  durch  die 
CoUectivarbeit  losen.  Diese  soil  von  Gesellschaftswegen,  durch 
das  "  Arbeitsamt "  zur  Durchfiihrung  des  von  diesem  aufgestell- 
ten  Produktionsplans,  geordnet  werden,  aber  unter  Vorausset- 
zung  voller  Freiheit  und  Freiwilligkeit  der  Gesellschaftsglieder, 
ohne  Zwang,  ohne  das  Privatinteresse  anzuspannen.  Ich 
halte  eine  Losung  dieser  Aufgabe  fiir  etwas  wie  die  Quadratur 
des  Cirkels  oder  die  Auffindung  des  Steins  der  Weisen.  Aber 
auch  wer  die  Aufgabe,  wie  der  Sozialist,  fiir  losbar  halt,  kann 
doch  offenbar  dann  nicht  umhin,  mindestens  zu  zeigen,  wie 
er  sich  die  Losung  denkt.  Dazu  geniigen  doch  wieder  ein 
paar  leichte  Andeutungen  iiber  den  angeborenen  Arbeitstrieb 
nicht.  Wie  ist  es  mit  der  freien  Wahl  der  Arbeitsart,  des 
Arbeitsorts,  der  Arbeitszeit  ?  Welche  psychischen  Impulse  und 


844  COSMOPOLIS. 

Motive  sind  vorhanden  und  lassen  sich  wirksam  machen, 
11  nd  auf  welche  Weise  hat  das  zu  geschehen,  um  die  gesellschaft- 
lich  fur  die  Produktionsaufgaben  notwendige  Gesamtarbeit 
zur  Verfugung  zu  erhalten  ;  und  zwar  mit  der  Garantie,  dass 
miiidestens  eben  so  viel,  womoglich  mehr  quantitativ  und 
und  qualitativ  geleistet  werde,  als  im  heutigen  System  der 
Privateigentumsordnung  und  der  privatwirtschaftlichen 
Organisation  der  Volkswirtschaft  ?  Wir  erhalten  keine 
Antwort  ! 

Selbst  aber  angenommen,  freilich  keineswegs  zugegeben, 
dass  das  Produktionsproblem  vom  SoziaHsmus  in  seinem 
Zukunftsstaat  gelost  sei,  wie  steht  es  um  die  Losung  des  Vcr- 
tcilimgsproblems  f  Feststeht  ja  nur,  dass  alles  dasjenige 
Einkommen,  welches  heute  die  Form  von  blossen  privaten 
Besitzrenten  (Pacht-,  Miet-,  Leihzins),  Kapitalgewinn, 
Spekulations-,  Conjuncturen-Gewinnen,  annimmt — auch  der 
l^nternehmergewinn  kann  zu  einem  Teil  mit  dazu  gehoren— 
und  dessen  Privatbezug  eine  Konsequenz  der  Privateigentums- 
institution,  des  Privateigentums  an  den  sachlichen  Pro- 
duktionsmitteln,  ist,  im  Sozialstaat  zur  Verfugung  der 
'' Gesellschaft/'  will  notwendig  sagen:  eines  obersten  *'Ver- 
teilungsamts,"  stande.  Als  solches  hatte  vielleicht  nach  den 
sozialistischen,  auch  den  Liebknechtschen,  Ideen  das  geplante 
"  Arbeitsamt  "  mit  zu  fungiren.  Aber  k'/V,  nach  nelchen  Prinzi- 
l^ictiy  soil  nun  hier  die  Verteilung  gcregelt  werden  ? 

Vertragsmassige  Regelung,  wie  sie  im  Wesentlichen  heute 
im  Lohn-,  Zins-,  Miet-,  Pachtvertrag  u.  s.  w.  erfolgt,  ware 
ja  nach  der  sozialistischen  Lehre  ausgeschlossen.  Etwas 
Anderes  als  eine  autoritative  Regelung,  etwa  von  der  leitenden, 
pardon  !— der  "  verwaltenden  "  Behorde  vorgeschlagen,  vom 
souveranen  Volke  oder  seiner  Vertretung  genehmigt,  konnte 
nicht  wol  eintreten.  Aber  nach  ivelchen  Grundsdtzen  soil  eine 
solche  Regelung  geschehen  ?  Der  Liebknechtsche  Aufsatz 
iibergeht  dies  schwierige  Grundproblem  vollig  mit  Still- 
schweigen.  In  der  sozialistischen  Litteratur  wird  es  wenig, 
aber  doch  bisweilen — zwar  nicht  eingehend  und  grundlich 
erortert,  aber  doch  gestreift. 

^*  Einem  Jeden  sein  Arheitsertrag"  das  war  eine  Zeit  lang  die 
Parole  ;    jetzt  hat  man  dies  meistens    aufgegeben,   das  ware 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      845 

auch  zu  *' individualistisch  "  und — praktisch  nicht  durchfiihrbar. 
Denn  was  ist  des  Einzelnen  "  Arbeitsertrag,"  bei  geteilter  oder 
Collectivarbeit,  bei  Mitbenutzung  der  der  Gesellschaft 
gehorenden  sachlichen  Produktionsmittel,  der  Maschinen 
u.s.w.  ?  Das  Hesse  sich  nur  auf  Grund  von  willkiirlichen 
Fictionen  feststellen.  **Jedem  nach  seiner  Lcistung"  das  ist  ein 
iihnlich  liegendes  Problem,  wie  das  vorige,  mit  ahnlichen 
Einwendungen  vom  sozialistischen  wie  vom  praktischen 
Standpunkte.  Sollen  alle  Arbeitsarten  als  gleichwertige  be- 
handelt  werden  ?  Wie  will  man,  wenn  man  unterscheidet,  den 
Okonomischen  Leistungswert  jeder  Arbeit  bestimmen  ?  "J^edem 
nach  seinen  Bedutfnissen"  das  ware  nach  einer  im  Sozialismus 
vertretenen,  wenn  auch  nicht  allgemein  angenommenen 
Ansicht  das  letzte  Ziel,  aber  wie  uns  Marx  selbst  zugesteht, 
davon  kann  w^ieder  erst  bei  psychisch  und  sittlich  ganz 
anders  gearteten  Menschen  die  Rede  sein.  Und  ob  dann  mit 
Erfolg  ? 

Praktisch  bliebe  schwerlich  etwas  Anderes  iibrig  als  eine 
antoritative  Regelung  der  Verteilung  nach  Compromissen 
zK'ischeii  verschiedeneu  Prinzipien  :  mehr  oder  weniger  willkur- 
liche  Veranschlagung  des  gesellschaftlichen  Werts,  der  Arbeits- 
leistung,  Berucksichtigung  eines  gewissen  Normalbedarfs — 
eine  Art  System  von  Sozialtaxen,  etwa  nach  Art  unserer 
Gehaltsscalen  im  Staatsdienst,  wenn  auch  nicht  notwendig  mit 
so  grossen  Unterschieden  der  Einzelsatze.  Dazu  dann 
vielleicht  noch  Modificationen,  um  den  einmal  nicht  unter- 
driickbaren  mitspielenden  individualistischen  psychischen 
Momenten  notgedrungen  etwas  Rechnung  zu  tragen  : 
Erhohungen  der  "  Portionen "  zum  Ansporn,  zur  Extra- 
belohnung ;  Verminderungen  derselben  fiir  Faulheit  oder 
schlechte  Arbeitsleistung  u.s.w.  Aber  welche  technischen  und 
wieder  psychologischen  Schwierigkeiten  bote  eine  solche 
Einrichtung  !  Und  wiirde  sie  Znfriedenheit  der  einzelnen 
Gesellschaftsglieder  des  souveriinen  Volks  mit  der  ihnen 
zugewiesenen  "  Portion "  sichern  ?  Ja,  wenn  die  Menschen 
des  Sozialstaats  eben  vollig  anders  gearteten  sein  werden  ; 
nein,  sicherlich  nein,  wenn  sie  das  bleiben  werden,  was  die 
Menschen  waren,  heute  und  vermutHch  in  aller  Zukunft  sind. 
Aus  der  "  Zufriedenheit "  des  Beamtentums  mit  der  Gehalts- 


846  COSMOPOLIS. 

regelung  im  heutigen  offentlichen  Dienst  bekommt  man  einen 
Vorgeschmack  der  allgemeinen  "Zufriedenheit"  im  Sozialstaat, 
wenn  einem  Jeden  so  seine  Portion  zuerteilt  wurde.  Und  wie 
man  sich  auch  zu  dem  Problem  stelle  :  auf  eine  wenigstens 
einigermaassen  derartige  Weise  musste  es  im  "  Sozialstaat " 
gelost  werden. 

Freilich,  bei  Heirn  Liebknecht  und  seinen  Freunden 
werden  die  allgemeinen  Erwartungen  von  den  Leistungen 
des  Zukunftsstaates  noch  durch  einige  andere  Gedankengange 
unterstutzt,  die  sich  aber,  genauer  betrachtet,  wiederum  als 
ebenso  viel  Illusionen  erweisen.  So,  wird  uns  versichert,  der 
Sozialismus  wolle  und  werde  durch  "  Vereinigung  der  Menschen 
zum  gemeinsamen  Kampf  und  Ringen  um  ein  menschen- 
wiirdiges  Dasein  "  den  in  der  Tierwelt  herrschenden  **Kampj 
urns  Dasein  '*  beendigen,  den  heutigen  Widerstreit  der  Einzel- 
nen  bei  der  bestehenden  wirtschaftlichen  Ungleichheit,  diese 
*'  nie  versiegende  Quelle  von  Elend,  Laster  und  Verbrechen/' 
in  "  sozialistische  Harmonie "  auflosen.  Gewiss  hat  dieser 
Kampf  urns  Dasein  in  der  Menschenwelt  in  seinen  Formen 
und  Mitteln  schon  manche  Veranderungen  mit  fortschreitender 
Kultur  erfahren,  freilich  nicht  mit  der  Herrn  Liebknecht  stets 
allein  vorschwebenden,  auf  naturwissenschaftlicher  Erkenntnis 
und  Beherrschung  der  Naturkriifte  beruhenden,  sondern  ziem- 
lich  unabhangig  davon,  mit  fortschreitender  und  sich  aus- 
breitender  sittlicher,  religioser  und  allgemeiner  Bildungskultur. 
Aber  lasst  sich  dieser  Kampf  vollig  beseitigen  ?  Und  ware 
seine  Beseitigung  durchaus  erwiinscht  ?  Gerade  um  des 
Fortschritts  der  Gesamtheit  willen  ?  Wiirde  der  Fortfall  jener 
Form,  den  der  Kampf  ums  Dasein  als  ^*  Kampf  um  die  beror- 
zugtc  Sfellung"  annimmt,  wirklich  ein  Segen  fiir  die  Mensch- 
heit  sein  ?  Das  kann  nur  wiederum  Jemand  annehmen, 
"  glauben,"  der  von  der  psychisch-ethischen  Entwicklungs- 
fiihigkeit  des  Menschentums  sich  die  hier  schon  ofters 
angedeuteten  Illusionen  macht.  — 

In  der  vorhin  behandelten   Frage  der  Regelung  der  Arbeit 

und  Produktion,  wie  der  Verteilung  der  Einkommenportionen 

in  sozialistischer  Weise  muss  bei  alien  Individuen,  den  Ge- 

sellschaftsgliedern,  offenbar    vorausgesetzt   werden,   dass    sie 

freiwillig  iibernehmen   oder   bereiiwiilig    sich    zuxveisen    lassen. 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      847 

welche  Art,  Maass,  Zeit,  Ort  der  Arbeit  von  ihnen  verlangt  wird, 
iim  die  gesellschaftliche  Produktion  richtig  durchzufiihren  ; 
dass  sie  sich  geniigen  lassen  und  zufrieden  sind  mit  der 
'*  Portion/'  die  ihnen  aus  dem  Produktionsertrag  zufallt  oder 
zugewiesen  wird,  etwa  wie  die  Glieder  der  Familie  oder  der 
primitiven  auf  dem  Verwandtschaftsverband  und  der  Auto- 
riti'it  des  Geschlechts-  oder  Stammeshaupts  beruhenden  alten 
Hausgenossenschaft.  Sind  nun  Neid,  Missgunst,  Eifersucht, 
Ehrgeiz,  Strebertum,  Hochmut,  Hass,  Bosheit,  Leidenschaft, 
Eitelkeit,  Faulheit  u.  s.  w.,  u.  s.  w.  eben  nur  Gebrechen  der 
heutigen  Menschheit  ?  Lassen  sie  sich  immer  nur  auf 
wirtschafilichc  Ursachen  und  Veranlassungen  zuriickfiihren  ? 
Spielen  sie  nur  in  der  kapitalistischen  Wirtschaftsordnung 
wnAh^ifreier  Konkunenz  einQ  RoUe  ?  Oder  wiirden  wir  mit 
denselben  "  Sunden  "  und  Gebrechen  der  menschlichen  Natur 
auch  im  "  Sozialstaat "  rechnen  miissen  ?  Herr  Liebknecht 
miisste  es  im  Grunde,  nach  manchen  seiner  Ausfiihrungen, 
verneinen.     Wer  wagt  das  sonst  ernstlich  zu  tun  ? 

V. 

Damit  komme  ich  auf  einen  wichtigen  allgemeineren  Punkt 
der  sozialistischen  Irrlehre,  welcher  auch  in  dem  Liebknecht- 
schen  Aufsatz  hervortritt.  Er  beruht,  besonders  deutlich 
zeigt  sich  das  hier,  auf  der  falschen  dogmatischen  Methode, 
auf  dem  constructiven  Verfahren  des  Sozialismus,  statt  des 
Verfahrens  unbefangener  Beobachtung.  Die  kiihnen  Phan- 
tasiebilder,  welche  uns  zum  Schluss  auch  der  sonst  nuchter- 
nere  Kiihrer  der  deutschen  Sozialdemokratie  entwirft,  ganz  in 
der  Weise  von  Bellamy  und  Anderen,  iiber  all  das  Schlimme, 
was  der  Sozialstaat  im  Unterschied  zum  heutigen  nicht  mehr, 
all  das  Herrliche,  was  er  vor  diesem  voraus  haben  werde,  sind 
nur  eine  Folge  dieser  Irrlehren  in  diesem  entscheidenden 
Punkte. 

Es  wird  niimlich,  ohne  eine  Spur  eines  Beweises,  wieder 
wie  ein  Axiom,  wie  ein  Glaubenssatz,  immer  so  hingestellt,  als 
ob  bekannte  Schaden  unserer  Gesellschaft  nur  oder  doch 
ivesentlich  nur,  Produkte  M«sdr^r  Wirtschafts-  und  Gesellschafts- 
ordnung  seien,  daher  mit  dieser  im"Sozialstaate"  verschwin- 
den  ;  dass  die  grossen  Praventiv-  und  Repressiv-Institutionen 


848  COSMOPOLIS. 

des  Staats,  teils  die  Mittel  zur  Abwehr,  Verhiitung,  Bekampfung 
jener  Schaden,  teils  behauptetermaassen  die  notwendige  Folge 
unseres  auf  der  Privateigentumsordnung  beruhenden  "burger- 
lichen,"  "  kapitalistischen"  "  Klassenstaats,"  mit  diesem  selbst 
dereinst  fallen,  weil  entbehrlich  werden  wurden.  Was  wird 
aus  diesen  vollig  willkurlichen  Pramissen  nun  Alles  abgeleitet  ? 
Das  Unerhorteste  ! 

Keine  Verbrechen,  keine  gemeine  Criminalitat,  —  "  hoch- 
stens  noch  Verbrechen  aus  Leidenschaft "  ;  also  doch  !  wie  in 
einem  lichten  Moment  hinzugefugt  wird  !  —  keine  Prostitu- 
tion mehr,  denn  kein  Widerstreit  der  Interessen  nach  dem 
F'all  unserer  heutigen  Wirtschaftsordnung  mehr  !  Keine 
'*  Regirung,"  nur  noch  "  Verwaltung,"  kein  Militar,  keine 
Polizei,  keine  Zuchthauser  und  Kasernen,  keine  Justizpalaste 
und  Kirchen  mehr,  kein  Zwang,  nur  verniinftige  Freiheit,  keine 
Zolle,  keine  Steuern  mehr,  -kurz  alles  heutige  Uebel  oder  was 
dem  Sozialisten  als  Uebel  gilt,  verschwunden.  Die  Menschen 
*'  ideale  Wesen,"  so  wird  es  zwar  nicht  ausgedruckt,  aber  das  ist 
der  Inhalt  der  Phantasien.  Eritis  sicut  deus,  —  das  alte  Lied. 
Und  statt  der  verschwundenen  Uebel  nun  lauter  neue  Herr- 
lichkeiten.  Prachtbauten  fur  Schulen,  Palaste  fur  Kunst, 
Wissenschaft,  Theater,  Concerthallen,  Bibliotheken,  Palaste 
der  Arbeit,  der  Parlamente,  unentgeltliche  Benutzung  der 
Eisenbahnen,  elektrischen  Bahnen  und  —  der  Zukunftsluft- 
schiffe,  olympische  Spiele,  —  kurz  ejn  Gotterolymp  fiir  die 
gliickliche  Menschheit,  ein  "  Paradies  "  auf  Erden  ! 

Gewiss  wird  ja  nun,  um  aus  dem  Allen  hier  nur  diesen  einen 
Punkt  herauszunehmen,  einzuraumen  sein,  dass  die  Criminali- 
tat durch  die  ausseren,  namentlich  auch  die  wirtschaft- 
lichen  Verhaltnisse  der  Verbrecher  und  derer,  welche 
Verbrecher  werden,  mit  bestimmt  wird.  Aber  allcin  dadunh ! 
Kaim  man  das  nicht  schon  durch  die  heutige  Criminal- 
statistik  und  die  Analyse  der  einzelnen  Verbrechensfalle  auf 
das  Biindigste  widerlegen  ?  Nicht  einmal  alle  Eigentumsver- 
brechen  kann  man  auf  wirtschaftliche  Momente  zuruckfuhren, 
geschweige  alle  Personalverbrechen,  viele  davon,  zum  Teil 
gerade  die  schlimmsten,  gar  nicht,  die  Geschlechtsverbrechen 
z.  B.,  die  gewalttatigen  Korperverletzungen,  die  Beleidi- 
gungen  beruhen  meistenteils  auf  ganz  anderen   Motiven,  als 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      849 

solchen,   welche   das  Mein   und    Dein  betreffen.      Dann  auf 
dem  "  Mangel  an  Bildung,"  antwortet  uns  der  Sozialist  !     Ja, 
vielfach,     aber     auch    keineswegs     ausschliesslich    und     am 
wenigsten   etwa  auf  Mangel    an   intellektueller   Bildung,  gar 
naturwissenschaftlicher,   welche   die   Sozialisten  —  auch  Herr 
Liebknecht  scheint  es — beinahe  allein  als  wahre  Geistesbil- 
dung  gelten  lassen  wollen.     Es  sind  vielfach  durchaus  andcrc 
Momente  und  Motive,  die  hier  mitspielen.      Ich  mochte  den 
Satz  nicht  vertreten — wagte  auch  als  "  biirgerlicher  Oekonom  " 
ihn  nicht  aufzustellen,  weil  es  dann  leicht  heissen  mochte,  so 
etwas   kann   doch   nur  ein   "Bourgeois"   sagen — ,  den    Herr 
Liebknecht  schrieb  :  "  Niemand  bestreitet,  dass  ein  Gebildeter 
im  Durchschnitt  sittlicher  ist  als  ein  Ungebildeter."     Niemand 
bestreitet  das  ?      Es  ist  ein  blosser  Glaubenssatz  dieser  sozia- 
listischen  Kichtung,  der  durch  Beobachtung  so  wenig  als  sein 
ofters    eben    so    einseitig    aufgestelltes    Gegenteil    zu    einer 
allgemeinen,    auch     nicht     zu    einer     Durchschnittswahrheit 
erhoben  wird.      Findet  man  einfache  Herzensgute  mehr  bei 
Gebildeten  als  bei  Ungebildeten  ? 

Herr  Liebknecht  knackt  noch  andere  sozialistische  Niisse  sehr 
leicht  auf,  die  uns  "  biirgerlichen  Oekonomen,"  wenn  wir  die 
Aufgabe  iibernehmen  miissten,  die  sozialistische  Wirtschafts-, 
Gesellschafts-  und  Staatsordnung  einzurenken,  unsere  Zahne 
zerbrechen  und  recht  schwere  Arbeit  machen  wiirden. 
Keinc  ^'  Regirung"  mehr,  nur  noch  eine  *'  Venvaltung'*  soil 
es  geben.  Ist  das  nicht  wieder  nur  ein  Wortstreit,  wie  der 
von  Herrn  Liebknecht  selbst  als  solcher  richtig  bezeich- 
nete  von  "  Gesellschaft "  oder/'  Staat "  es  ist  ?  Jedenfalls  :  Wic 
wird  der  Gesellschaftswille  gebildet,  festgestellt,  ausgefiihrt  ? 
Xatiirlich  wird  hier  bei  den  Sozialisten  von  Volkssouveriini- 
tiit  ausgegangen,  aber  die  Minoritiit  soil  doch  auch  nicht 
vergewaltigt  werden,  so  wenig  wie  das  "freie"  Individuum. 
Wie  die  etwaigen  Gegensiitze  zwischen  Mehrheit  und  Min- 
derheit,  Gesellschafts-  und  Einzelwille,  ohne  dass  letzterer 
gebrochen  wird,  ausgeglichen  werden  soil, — dass  kann  sich 
ein  Jeder  wieder  denken,  wie  er  will.  Wie  ein  "  Arbeitsamt," 
ein  "  Verteilungsamt,"  ein  '•  Erziehungsamt "  fungiren  sollen 
ohne  Machtmiitcl  und  schr  starkc  Machtmittel,  d.  h.  ohne  die 
Befugnisse   der   verponten   '*  Kegirung  "   im  heutigen    Staate^ 


850  COSMOPOLIS. 

bleibt  unserem  gevvohnlichen  "  burgerlichen  "  Verstande  ein 
Geheimnis.  Wahrscheinlich  werden  eben  wieder  nur  einsich- 
tigste,  uneigennutzigste,  aufopferungsfahigste,  gewissenhaf- 
teste,  jeder  egoistischen  Regung  des  alten  burgerlichen  Adam 
uiizugangliche,  rein  ideale  Menschen  vorausgesetzt.  Dann 
geht  es  freilich  cher.  Aber  es  ist  das  eben  immer  wieder 
die  willkurliche  Pramisse. 

VI. 

Wie  solche  allgemeine   schvvierigste    Fragen    der  sozialisti- 
schen  Organisation  gar  nicht  erortert  oder  mit  einigen  Behaup- 
tungen  und  nichtssagenden  Redewendungen  vom  Sozialismus 
erledigt  werden,  so  nicht  minder  praktisch  schwierige  Spezial- 
punkte,  auf  die  man  in  jeder  Behandlung  des  Problems  des 
Zukunftsstaats  unvermeidlich  stosst.     Ich  will  nur  einige  an- 
deuten,  die  Frage  von  der  Consumtion  der  Giiter  im  Sozial- 
staat,  diejenige  von  den  Finanzen  des  sozialistischen  Gemein- 
wesens  und  der  Kostendeckung  der  offentlichen  Einrichtungen 
der  "  Verwaltung  "  und  endlich  die  Frage  von  der   Bildung 
des  zu  neuer  und  vermehrter  Produktion  dienenden  Kapitals. 
Herr  Liebknecht  beriihrt  nur  mit  einigen  Worten  die  ersten 
beiden  Fragen.     "  Geld  "  soil  es  im  Zukunftsstaat  nicht  geben, 
das  sei   auch    vollkommen  uberfliissig,   wo  kein  Handel   ge- 
trieben  werde,    keine    Waarenproduktion   aus    Privatspekula- 
tion  stattfinde.     Von  Finanzen  horen  wir  nichts,  als  dass  es 
natiirlich  im  Sozialstaat  keine  Steuern  u.  s.  w.  geben  wiirde. 
Unentgeltlich,  also  doch  auf  offentliche  Kosten,  sollen  gleich- 
wol  die  Burger,  pardon  wieder  ! — die  Genossen  des  Zukunfts- 
staats auf  den  Eisenbahnen  und  auf  den  Luftschiffen  fahren, 
wie  sie  heute  schon  die  Landstrassen  unentgelllich  benutzen. 
Wie   das   gemacht  werden  soil,    erfahren   wir   wieder   nicht. 
So  "  untergeordnete "    Fragen   wie    die    nach   der    richtigen 
Bereitstellung  der  zur  Produktion  erforderlichen  Sachgiiter — 
eben  des  Kapitals  im  allgemeinen  okonomischen  Sinne,  wie  es 
jedegeweseneund  jededenkbare  zukiinftige  Wirtschaftsorgani- 
sation  fiir  ihre  Produktion  braucht,  jene  Roh-  und  Hilfsstoffe, 
Werkzeuge  und  Maschinen,   Baulichkeiten  fiir   die   Betriebe, 
Unterhaltsmittel  fiir  die  arbeitenden   Elemente  wahrend  des 
Arbeitsprozesses, —  solche  Fragen,  die  die  heutige  Wirtschafts- 


ZUR    KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZlIKUNFTSSTAATS.       85 1 

ordnung  vielleicht  mangelhaft,  aber  immerhin  fiir  den  Zweck 
so  ausreichend  lost,  dass  die  Produktion  eben  tatsachlich  vor 
sich  gehen  und  sich  den  Bedurfnissen  gemass  gestalten,  aus- 
dehnen  und  functioniren  kann,  indem  im  Wesentlichen  die 
Privat-Kapitalisten  die  Bildung  und  Bereitstellung  des 
okonomischen  Kapitals  in  ihrem  Privatkapital,  wie  eine  Art 
Functionare  der  Gesellschaft,  iibernehmen, —  solche  Fragen 
kiimmern  unsere  Sozialisten,  auch  Herrn  Liebknecht,  nicht. 
Da  werden  wir'  mil  der  Versicherung  abgespeist,  auch  im 
Zukunftsstaate  wiirden  Burgerinnen  und  Burger  —  Herr  Lieb- 
knecht  lasst  auch  hier  die  Damen  galant  vorangehen  und  zeigt 
sich  wieder  vorurteilslos  genug,  von  "  Biirgern "  selbst  im 
Sozialstaat  zu  sprechen  —  ja  auch  zwei  Fiisse,  zwei  Hande  und 
einen  Kopf  haben  und  sich  schon  einzurichten  und  zu  be- 
nehmen  wissen.  Das  ist  freilich  sehr  notwendig,  sie  werden 
den  Kopf  brauchen  mussen,  um  den  Plan  des  Zukunftsstaats, 
den  unsere  heutigen  Sozialisten  nur  in  so  vollig  unklaren 
Umrissen  zu  entwerfen  wissen,  aufzustellen,  und  Kopf  und 
Hande  und  Fusse,  um  diesen  Plan  durchzufiihren.  Aber  ob 
sie  es  auch  fiir  so  leicht  halten  werden,  wie  unsere  heutigen 
Sozialisten  ? 

Die  Frage  vom  Gelde  kann  auch  der  Sozialist  nicht  umgehen 
weil  damit  eng  die  Frage  zusammenhangt,  wie  denn  nun 
schliesslich  das  "freie"  Individuum,  das  freie  Gesellschafts- 
glied  seine  Portion  am  Produktionsertrage  in  die  von  ihm 
begehrten  konkreten  Consumobjekte  umsetzen  soil.  Diese 
Frage  lasst  sich  nur  dann  als  erledigt  betrachten,  wenn  der 
Sozialist  sonst  die  letzte  Konsequenz  ziehen  wiirde,  namlich 
diejenige,  dass  einem  Jeden  auch  seine  "  Portion  **  an  den 
Arbeitsprodukten  in  besiimmten  Arten,  Sorten  und  Mengen  der 
Giiter,  an  bestimmtem  Ort,  zu  bestimmta  Zeit  genau  vom 
Arbeits-  und  Verteilungsamt  zugewiesen  wiirde.  Ich  halte  das 
allerdings  fast  fiir  die  notwendig  zu  ziehende  letzte  Konsequenz 
des  sozialistischen  Systems,  womit  dann  freilich,  selbst  bei 
reichlichen  "  Portionen,"  die  Annaherung  des  Lebens  im 
Sozialstaat  an  das  heutige  in  ''  Kaserne  und  Zuchthaus ''  eine 
unverkennbar  unheimlich  grosse  werden  wiirde.  Wer  aber 
diese  Konsequenz  nicht  zieht  und  wenigstens  bei  der  Fest- 
haltung  von  Privateigentum  an  den  Arbeitsprodukten,  wie  es 

VOL.  IX.— N:).  XXVII.  \^ 


852  COSMOPOLlS. 

der  heutige  wissenschaftliche  uiid  politisch  -  agitatorische 
Sozialismus  tut,  noch  die  Freiheit  in  der  Wahl  der  Consum- 
artikel  fiir  den  Genossen  des  Sozialstaats  festhalten  will,  der 
kommt  nicht  iiber  die  Frage  hinaus  :  wie  ist  das  nun  hier 
einzurichten  ?  Sozialistische  Autoren .  haben  daher  gerade 
zu  diesem  Zweck  die  Einfuhrung  eines  Arbeitsgeldes  geplant, 
das  in  Bescheinigungen  iiber  geleisteten  Arbeitswert  bestehend 
als  Zahlmittel  fiir  Waarenankaufe  in  den  "  sozialistischen 
Bazars "  u.  s.  w.  zu  dienen  hatte.  Auch  das  ware  wieder  ein 
unendlich  schwierig  zu  losendes  Problem,  weil  unvermeidlich 
dabei  ein  umfassendes  Arbeits-  und  Waarentaxwesen  zu 
Grunde  gelegt  werden  miistite,  eine  Nuss,  die  noch  kein 
sozialistischer  Arbeitsgeldtheoretiker  auch  nur  halbwegs  be- 
friedigend  zu  knacken  gewusst  hat.  Aber  wenigstens  ist 
das  Problem  so  richtig  gestellt.  Auch  Bellamys  bekannte 
Ausfiihrungen  laufen  im  Prinzip  auf  Aehnliches  hinaus. 
Und  ohne  irgend  etwas  Derartiges  ginge  die  Beschaffung 
der  konkretcn  Consumtibilien  nach  individuelletn  Ermessen 
iiberhaupt  nicht.  Mit  dem  volligen  rUeberfliissigsein  des 
Geldes  im  Sozialstaat  hatte  es  also  wieder  seine  guten 
Wege. 

''  hinanzen "  im  Sozialstaat  f  Sicherlich,  so  gut  wie  im 
heutigen,  nur  mit  anderer,  wahrscheinlich  noch  schwierigerer 
Einrichtung,  und  mit  Streitfragen,  Meinungsverschiedenheiten 
im  "  souveriinen  Volke "  oder  in  dessen  Vertretungskorpern, 
vor  und  bei  den  Wahlkampfen  und  Abstimraungen,  die  mit 
den  heutigen  politischen  Kampfen  um  bestimmte  Ausgaben 
und  um  die  Deckungsmittel  dafiir,  die  Steuern,  eine  verzweifeltc 
Aehnlichkeit  haben  wiirden  !  Nehmen  wir  Herrn  Liebknecht 
beim  Worte  und  z.  B.  an,  dass  wirklich  im  Sozialstaate 
Eisenbahnen  und  —  Luftschiffe  von  Jedermann  sollen  so 
unentgeltlich  benutzt  werden  konnen,  ''  wie  heute  die  Land- 
strassen."  Nun,  diese  machen  auch  Kosten,  und  wenn  diese 
Kosten  nicht  durch  Gebtiren,  wie  Wege-,  Chausseegelder,  mit 
gedeckt  werden,  miissen  sie  aus  allgemeinen  ofifentlichen 
Mitteln  des  Staats,  der  Gemeinde,  aus  Steuern  ganz  und  auch 
in  diesem  Falle  immer  grossenteils  bestritten  werden.  Das 
Gefahrte,  den  Transport  zahlt  man  ausserdem  als  Burger  der 
kapitalistischen  Wirtschaftsoidnung  noch  —  wenn   man  nicht 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      853 

auf  Schusters  Happen  fahrt.  Bei  den  Eisenbahnen  macht 
nicht  nur  die  Herstellung,  sondern  auch  der  Betrieb  immer 
notwendig  grosse  Kosten,  d.  h.  nationaldkonomisch  aufge- 
fasst  :  sie  erfordern  dafiir  eben  eine  gehorige  Summe 
menschlicher  Arbeit  und  Verwendung  von  Arbeitsprodukten. 
Diese  Kosten  sind  in  jeder  denkbaren  wirtschaftlichen 
Organisation  vorhanden  und  werden  sie  nicht  von  den 
Benutzern  der  Bahnen,  so  mussen  sie  von  der  Gesamtheit 
getragen  werden.  Und  wie  hier,  so  ist  es  mit  jeder  anderen 
Art  offentlicher  Einrichtungen  auch  im  Sozialstaat,  mit  den 
Liebknechtschen  Arbeits-  und  Erziehungsamtern  und  deren 
Kosten,  mit  den  Palastbauten  fur  all  die  Herrlichkeiten,  mit 
den  olympischen  Spielen  u.  s.  w.,  u.  s.  w.  Da  liegen  durchaus 
dhnlichc  ^^Finanzfragcn**  wie  im  "biirgerlichen  Staate"  vor,  und 
die  Opfer^  welche  heute  die  Burger  in  den  Steuern  fiir  solche 
allgemeinen  Zwecke  tragen,  wurden  den  "  Genossen "  im 
Sozialstaate  ebenso  wenig  erspart  werden.  Das  "  Volk  "  und 
seine  Vertreter  wurden  wahrscheinlich  oftmals  diesen  Zwecken 
und  Opfern  einen  ahnlichen  Widerstand  entgegensetzen,  wie 
es  heute  geschieht,  auch  wenn  es  sich  bei  Aufgaben  im  Sozial- 
staat,  wie  uns  versichert  wird,  nicht  mehr  um  MiHtar-  und 
Flottenfragen  handeln  wwde  und  nur  noch  Ministerien  des 
Aeussern  zum  Austausch  der  Produkte  der  soziaHstischen 
Gemeinwesen  untereinander  (bis  sie  "  in  eins  verschmoken 
sind "  !)  und  mit  den  noch  nicht  sozialistisch  entwickelten 
Landern  gabe. 

Nur  die  Form  dessen,  was  wir  heute  Beslcuerung  nennen, 
hiitte  gewechselt.  Hctitc  erhalt  ein  Jeder  sein  Einkommen  fiir 
sich,  das  als  Einheit  nur  dem  abstrakten  Denken  erscheinende 
Nationaleinkommen  ist  durch  die  Rechtsformen  unserer 
Volkswirtschaft  und  unseres  Verkehrs  unter  die  einzehien 
Burger  bereits  verteilt,  ist  keine  selbstandige  rechtliche 
Einheit.  Nunmehr  wird  einem  Jeden  im  Wege  der 
Besteuerung,  in  den  mancherlei  Formen,  welche  diese  hat, 
ein  Teil  von  seineni  Einkommen  als  Beitrag  fur  die  allge- 
meinen Kosten  des  Gemeinwesens  und  diejenigen  offent- 
lichen  Anstalten  abgenommen,  welche  ihre  speziellen  Kosten 
nicht  durch  Gebiiren  und  dergleichen  mehr  bestreiten.  Erst 
nach  Abzug  dieses  Beitrags  ergibt  sich,  was  der  Einzelne  fur 


854  COSMOPOLIS. 

seine  personlichen  Zwecke  und  Bediirfnisse,   eventuell  auch 
fiir  seine  Kapitalbildung  zur  Verfugung  bchalt. 

Im  Sozialstaai  wiirde  das  Nationaleinkommen  als  ein 
Ganzes,  eine  rechtliche  Einheit  gewonnen.  Alle  untnittelbaren 
Produktionskosten,  z.B.  fiir  den  Wert  der  verbrauchten  Stoffe, 
der  Abnutzung  der  Maschinen  u.s.w.  waren  dabei  schon  in 
Abzug  gebracht.  Dann  miissten  nun  aber  erst  in  notwendiger 
Voncegnahmc  aus  dem  zu  verteilenden  Nationaleinkommen 
die  Kosten  fur  das  Gemeinwesen,  fiir  die  offentlichen  unent- 
geltlich  zu  benutzenden  Einrichtungen  gedeckt  warden.  Erst 
nach  Abzug  dieser  Kosten  ergabe  sich,  was  nun  den  einzelnen 
'*  Genossen  "  an  *'  Portionen  "  fur  ihre  Bediirfnisse  bestenfalls 
iiberwiesen  werden  konnte.  D.  h.  die  Genossen  batten  fur 
Derartiges  freilich  keine  Steuern  zu  zahlen,  aber  sie  empfin- 
gen  von  vornherein  geringere  Portionen.  Das  lauft  auf  ganz 
dasselbe  hinaus. 

Ueber  alle  solche  Dinge   miisste   natijrlich   das  souverane 
Volk,  mindestens  dessen  Vertretung,  Entscheidung  treffen.    Da 
es  sich  hier  um  unmittelbar  zu  bringende,  in  der  sofortigen 
Verkleinerung  der  Portion  sich  fiihlbar  machende  Opfer  der 
Einzelnen    handelte,    so    miisste    es    wiederum    mit    einem 
Wunder  geschehen,  wenn  z.  B.  die   Verwaltung    des  Sozial- 
staats    hier    oftmals    nicht    ganz    ahnlicher    Opposition    und 
Schwierigkeiten    begegnen   wiirde,   wie   heute    unsere    Regi- 
rungen    bei   oft   noch   so    notwendigen    und    zweckmassigen 
Ausgabebewilligungen  und  Steuerforderungen  fiir  oflFentliche 
Zwecke.     Denn  wenn  es  sich  auch  wirklich  dabei  nicht  mehr 
um    Heeres-    und    Flottenfragen   und    dergleichen    handeln 
soUte,   auch    iiber   viele    andere    Dinge,    scheinbar    rein    ge 
meinniitziger    Art,   konnen   die   Ansichten    und  —  Interessen 
auseinandergehen,  z.  B.  bei   Eisenbahnbauten.     Da  konnten 
Provinzial-  und  Kirchturms-lnteressen,  bitte  um  Entschuldi- 
gung  :  Bildungspalastturms-lnteressen  —  auch  im  Sozialstaate 
die  Bevolkerung  und  ihre  Vertretung  trennen.     Man  miisste 
denn  wiederum  auf  die   "  idealen,"  keine  solche  kleinlichen 
Gesichtspunkte   kennenden  biederen  Genossen  des  Zukunfts- 
staats  sich  sicher  verlassen  konnen. 

Die  Wirksamkeit  des  Referendums  bei  manchen  Fragen  der 
Uebernahme  von  allgemeinen  Aufgaben  und  Kosten  dafiir  in 


ZUR  KRITIK  DES  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      855 

den  Kantonen  und  im  Bundesstaate  der  Schweiz  aiif  den 
Staat  kann  uns  wieder  einen  kleinen  Vorgeschmack  davon 
geben,  was  fur  ahnliche  Kampfe  im  Sozialstaat  zu  erwarten 
wiiren.  Und  die  Schweiz  soil  ja,  nach  Herrn  Liebknecht, 
schon  heute  ein  Stuck  Zukunftsstaat  im  Kleinen  darstellen. 

Ganz  analog  wie  die  Finanzfrage  liegt  aber  im  Sozialstaate 
auch  die  Frage  der  Bildung  des  erforderlichen  Nationalkapitah 
zur  Fortfuhrung  und  Ausdehnung  der  Produktion.  Ganz 
abgesehen  von  den  riesigen  technischen  Schwierigkeiten, 
Aufgaben,  welche  in  unserer  heutigen  Volkswirtschaft  von 
zahllosen  kleineren  und  grosseren  Kapitalisten  erfullt  werden, 
durch  eine  gesellschaftliche  Behorde  von  oben  aus  ausfiihreii 
Oder  doch  ihre  Ausfuhrung  durch  Zwischeninstanzen  contro- 
liren  oder  leiten  zu  lassen,  so  liefe  auch  hier  eben  wieder 
AUes  darauf  hinaus,  statt  unmittelbar  consumfahige  Artikel, 
Genussmittel,  herstellen  und  diese  an  die  Einzelnen  dann  als 
Portionen  verteilen  zu  lassen,  einen  Teil  der  nationalen 
Arbeitskrafte  in  der  Herstellung  von  Produktionsmitteln 
(neuen  Maschinen  u.  s.  w.)  zu  beschaftigen  oder  aus  dem 
Nationaleinkommen  Reservirungcn  von  Giitern  zum  Zweck  der 
Bildung  von  Kapital,  d.  h.  von  Produktionsmitteln  zu  machen. 
Das  ginge  wieder  nicht  ohne  unmittelbare  Opfer  fur  die 
Genossen  ab.  Und  wieder  mussten  diese  eine  ungemeine 
Einsicht,  Uneigenniitzigkeit,  Opferwilligkeit  besitzen,  die  Gesell- 
schaftsverwaltung  eine  ungeheure  Autoritat  oder  —  Macht  und 
Zwangsgewalt,  oder  die  .Sache  konnte  oft  ganz  ahnliche 
Schwierigkeiten  wie  bei  den  besprochenen  Finanzaufgaben 
des  Sozialstaats  bereiten,  vielleicht  gar  nicht  durchgesetzt 
werden.  Jedenfalls  waren  auch  hier,  mindestens  voruber- 
gehend,  ahnliche  Consumbeschrankungen  von  der  Bevol- 
kerung  zu  ertragen,  wie  sie  heute  jede  normale  Kapital- 
bildung  aus  Eriibrigungen  aus  dem  Einkommen  mittelst 
des  verponten  "  Sparens  "  mit  sich  fiihrt. 

VII. 

In  einer  Menge  Punkten  ware  es  noch  moglich  und  not- 
wendig,  an  die  sozialistische  Construction  des  Zunkunftsstaats 
Kritik  anzulegen.  Doch  es  wiirde  zu  weit  fuhren,  und  ich 
muss  zum  Schluss  eilen.     Ich  will  nur  noch  bemerken,  dass 


856  COSMOPOLIS. 

Herr  Liebknecht,  wie  andere  Sozialisten,  auch  die  Tatsachen, 
welche  die  Vorbereitung  der  neuen  Wirtschaftsordnung  schon 
jetzt  andeuten  sollen,  wol  ebenso  uberschatzt,  wie  er  die  enor- 
men  Schwierigkeiten  eines  Ueberganges.aus  dem  bestehenden  in 
das  neue  System  unterschatzt.  Mit  der  eben  wieder  viel  zu  sehr 
verallgemeinerten  sichtbareii  Ausbreitung  des  Grossbetriebs 
wird  nicht  so  viel  bewiesen.  Werke  wie  die  Kruppschen,  die 
grosser!  kaufmannischen  Bazare  sind  eben  doch  in  eminentem 
Maasse  gerade  Glattzlcistungcn  der Priiatiniiiative  des  Unierttelh 
mertiims  und  der  kapitalistischen  Wirtschaftsordnung.  Waren  sie 
selbst  so  leicht  in  die  sozialistische  Ordnung  hiniiberzufuhren, 
wie  Herr  Liebknecht  meint,  so  friige  sich,  ob  diese  die 
geeigneten  Organe  hatte,  sie  tiichtig  /or/zufuhren.  Vol- 
lends  solche  Grossunternehmungen  ganz  neu  zu  schaffen,  er- 
scheint  fiir  jeden  Unbefangenen  als  eine  ungemein  schwie- 
rige  Aufgabe  einer  sozialistischen  Organisation. 

Merkwurdig,  und  doch  vielleicht  aus  der  Stellung  des 
Politikers  Liebknecht  bei  dem  theoretisirenden  Sozialisten 
verstandHch  :  die  immerhin  fiir  ihn  noch  gunstigsten  Beispiele, 
dass  wenigstens  auf  einigen  wichtigen  Gebieten  Stoats-  und 
Connnunalunternchmungcn  bereits  bestehen,  zumal  in  Deutsch- 
land,  erwahnt  Herr  Liebknecht  gar  nicht.  Beispiele,  die 
sich  im  Ganzen  bewahrt  und  jedenfalls  gezeigt  haben,  dass 
das  Produktionsproblem  und  im  staatlichen  Besoldungssystem 
selbst  das  Verteilungsproblem,  wie  es  wenigstens  wesentlich 
ahnlich  in  sozialistischer  Wirtschaftsordnung  vorliegt,  auch  vom 
heutigen  ''  Klassenstaat "  gelost  werden  kann.  Aber  freilich 
unter  Voraussetzung  der  ojjentlichcn  Autoritdt,  DisciplinargewHi 
und  —  eben  nur  auf  einigen  Gebieten.  Immerhin,  Forst- 
wirtschaft,  Bergbau,  Eisenbahn-Bau  und  Betrieb,  Post  und 
Telegraphie  des  Staats,  stadtische  Beleuchtungsanstalten  und 
dergleichen  mehr  sind  beachtenswert  genug.  Nur  folgt  daraus 
nicht  die  Moglichkeit  und  Zweckmassigkeit  einer  ahnlichen 
Einrichtung  des  ganzen  Wirtschaftslebens, — und  eine  ahnliche 
miisste  es  im  '*  Sozialstaate "  immerhin  werden,  ob  die 
Sozialisten  das  zugeben  ober  nicht.  — 

Ich  habe  in  dieser  Kritik  mancherlei  verschiedene  Punkte 
beriihrt.  Im  Grunde  gabe  der  Liebknechtsche  Aufsatz  Anlass, 
an  jeden  einzelnen  Satz  noch  eine  kritische  Glosse  zu  knupfen. 


ZUR  KRITIK  DKS  SOZIALISTISCHEN  ZUKUNFTSSTAATS.      857 

Das  Wichtigste  sind  mir  die  Einwendungen  psychologischer 
Art  inbetreff  der  Losung  des  Arbeits-  und  Produktions-,  wie 
des  Verteilungsproblems.  Jede  ernstliche  Erfassung  der 
Aufgabe,  welche  dem  Sozialismus  hier  obliegt,  muss  hier  zu 
einer  viel  tieferen  psychologischen  Untersuchung  fuhren,  als 
sie  der  Sozialismus  bisher  geliefert  hat,  —  wenn  anders  er  seine 
Constructionen  des  Zukimftsstaats  nicht  als  Traumereien,  als 
Utopien  will  angesehen  wissen.  Denn,  trotz  Fr.  Engels,  auch 
der  deutsche  wissenschaftliche  Sozialismus  hat  den  Weg  **  von 
der  Utopie  zur  Wissenschaft "  noch  keineswegs  zuriickgelegt, 
sondern  steckt  noch  immer  tief  in  der  Utopie  drin. 

Ich  habe  dabei  aber  meines  anderen  Haupteinwandes  nicht 
weiter  gedacht,  des  poptilaiionistisclien.  Ich  muss  auch  darauf 
verzichten,  in  dieser  Hinsicht  hier  mehr  als  nur  noch  meine 
These  hinzustellen,ohne  sie  an  diesem  Orte  naher  auszufiihren 
und  zu  begriinden.  Das  habe  ich  in  der  "  volkswirtschaft- 
lichen  Bevolkerungslehre "  in  der  dritten  Auflage  meiner 
Grundlegung  der  politischen  Oekonomic  eingehend  getan. 

Xach  Allem  scheint  es  mir  wenig  wahrscheinlich,  dass  eine 
sozialistische  Produktion  sich  einrichten  lasst  und  vollends, 
dass  sie  mehr  leisten  werde,  als  die  gegenwartige  individualis- 
tische  mit  alien  ihren  Unvollkommenheiten.  1st  das  richtig, 
so  wird  das  Nationaleinkommen  eher  kleincr  ausfallen  und 
langsamer  wachsen,  als  in  der  heutigen  Wirtschaftsordnung, 
d.  h.  der  Dividendus,  den  das  Nationaleinkommen  in  jeder 
Wirtschaftsordnung  darstellt,  droht  kleiner  zu  werden.  Nach 
Alleni,  namentlich  nach  alien  mitspielenden  psychischen  und 
physischen  Momenten  ist  es  andererseits  in  hohem  Maasse 
wahrscheinlich,  dass  die  Bcvolkentng  im  Sozialstaat  eher  die 
Tendenz  hat,  noch  rascher  zu  wachsen,  als  in  unseren 
Kulturstaaten.  Diese  Wahrscheinlichkeit — mehr  Hisst  sich 
naturlich  nicht  sagen — wird  von  den  meisten  Sozialisten  mit 
den  unzulanglichsten  Griinden  bestritten,  sie  lasst  sich  mit  den 
triftigsten,  auch  aus  der  heutigen  Erfahrungswelt  entnommenen 
Argumenten  begriinden.  Dann  musste  entweder  wieder  erst  das 
Menschenmaterial  des  Zukunftsstaats  ein  sinnlich,  physisch, 
sittlich,  psychisch  ganz  anderes  als  das  heutige  sein, — oder  man 
musste  den  letzten  Schritt  machen,zur  sozialen  Regelung  auch 
der  Zeugung  und  Geburten  schreiten.     Anderenfalls  drohte  ein 


858  COSMOPOLIS. 

siarkcreSf  raschcrcs  Wachsiuiii  dcr  Bevolkerun^f  des  Dwison  in 
jeder  Wirtschaftsordnung.  Dann  hilft,  trotz  Fortfalls  aller 
Besitzrenten  u.  s.  w.,  kein  Gott :  der  Quotientf  die  "  Verteilun^s- 
portion''  des  Einzelncn,  der  Familie  wurdesich  verringern — bis 
verheerende  Repression  wieder  einen  Gleichgewichtszustand 
herbeigefi'ihrt  hatte.  Malthus,  der  von  den  Sozialisten  so 
verhohnte  '*  Pfaffe  Malthus,"  hatte  wieder  einmal  Recht 
behalten  und — das  Ende  des  Zukunftsstaats  ware  damit  wol 
auch  gekommen. 


Adolph  Wagner. 


Berlin,  Januar  1898. 


NAPOLEON    I.    UND    PREUSSEN. 


II. 

Inmitten  seiner  Todfeinde  und  hiuen  Freunde  und  Rivalen 
erblickte  Napoleon  Preussen.  Seine  Freundschaft  fiir  Alexan- 
der und  die  Liebe  des  Zaren  zu  den  Seelenfreunden  von  Memel 
hatten  die  Dynastie  der  HohenzoUern  gerettet  und  ihr  die 
knappe  Halfte  der  Provinzen  zuriickgegeben.  So  ungefahr  stand 
es  in  der  Friedensurkunde  und  ward  so  der  Welt  immer  von 
Neuem  verkiindigt.  Doch  ware  es  naiv  zu  glauben,  dass  der 
Biedersinn  Friedrich  Wilhelms  und  Luisens  Liebreiz  es  iiber 
das  leichtbeschwingte  Herz  Alexanders  davon  getragen  hatten. 
Nicht  einmal  das  Schamgefiihl  gegeniiber  dem  friiheren 
Alliirten,  den  er  preisgegeben,  hatte  viel  Raum  in  seiner  zart- 
lichen  Seele.  Das  Interesse  an  Preussen  war  fiir  ihn,  und  so 
auch  fiir  Napoleon,  lediglich  bedingt  durch  ihre  Stellung  zu 
einander  und  durch  den  Gang  der  allgemeinen  Politik.  An 
sich  konnte  ein  Staat,  der  nicht  viel  grosser  war  als  Westfalen 
Oder  Bayern,  fiir  Beide  nur  sekundare  Bedeutung  haben. 
Wenn  sie  ihm  trotzdem  grosseren  Platz  in  ihren  Berechnungen 
gewahrten,  so  verdankte  er  das  neben  den  Traditionen  der 
Dynastie,  die  sich  doch  nicht  so  leicht  wie  die  Grenzen  selbst 
verwischen  liessen,  seiner  geographischen  Lage.  Es  war  die 
Zwischenmacht  zwischen  den  beiden  Kaiserreichen.  Napoleon 
duldete  sie,  weil  er  sich  scheute,  seine  Macht  bis  unmittelbar  an 
den  Niemen  vorzuschieben,  und  er  glaubte  es  tun  zu  konnen, 
weil  er  durch  die  Ausdehnung  des  Rheinbundes  bis  an  die  Elbe 
den  verstiimmelten  Staat  von  zwei  Seiten  umklammert  hielt  und 
durch  die  Herstellung  Polens  auch  gegen  Russland  eine  starke 
Stellung  gewann.  Es  war  eine  der  Konzessionen,  die  er  dem 
neuen  Freunde  machte,  uip  ihn  gegen  ]England  zu  gewinnen. 


86o  COSMOPOLIS. 

Und  so  lange  dem  Zaren  an  der  franzosischen  AUianz  lag^ 
blieb  ihm  das  Schicksal  Preussens  recht  gleichgiltig.  Zwar 
horte  er  nicht  auf,  Napoleon  mit  Bittgesuchen  fur  seinen  "  un- 
gliicklichen  alten  AUiirten "  zii  besturmen,  Minderung  der 
Contribution  und  den  Abmarsch  der  Truppen  zu  fordern. 
Aber  damit  diente  er  in  erster  Linie  sich  selbst.  Denn  je 
weniger  Franzosen  in  den  Weichsel-  und  Oder-Festungen 
standen,  urn  so  leichter  konnte  er  aufatmen,  und  um  so  eher 
darauf  rechnen,  in  Preussen  selbst  wirksame  Hilfe  zu  finden» 
falls  sich  der  Wind  einmal  drehen  sollte.  Deshalb  war  er  schon 
in  Tilsit  so  iibereifrig  fur  die  Restitution  Magdeburgs  an 
Preussen  eingetreten,  in  demselben  Moment,  wo  er  bei  Na- 
poleon (naturlich  im  tiefsten  Geheim  vor  den  alten  Freunden) 
um  ein  grosses  Stuck  aus  den  polnisch-preussischen  Pro\nnzen 
bettelte  und  sich  sogar  auf  den  Kreis  von  Memel  HofFnung 
machte.  Ganz  entsetzt  war  er,  als  ihn  der  Kaiser  ini  November 
durch  seinen  Gesandten  ersuchen  Hess,  ihm  die  Besetzung 
Schlesiens  zu  gestatten.  Es  war  die  Gegenforderung  fur  die 
Donauprovinzen,  die  der  Zar  fiir  sich  verlangt  hatte  ;  Napoleon 
woUte  dadurch  seine  Position  im  Osten  auch  Oesterreich 
gegeniiber  verstarken,  das  durch  den  russischen  Besitz  der 
Donaumiindungen  aufs  argste  verletzt  ware.  "  Die  Forderung 
von  Berlin,"  schrieb  damals  Caulaincourt  mit  treffender  Ironie, 
"wiirde  die  Herren  in  Petersburg  nicht  so  wild  gemacht 
haben." 

Nun  erkennen  wir  aber,  weshall  Napoleon  nicht  daran 
denken  konnte,  Preussen  aus  den  F  r.gern  zu  lassen.  Da  er 
diesem  Staat  in  Tilsit  die  Unabhangig  :  it  garantirt  hatte,  besass 
er  kein  anderes  Mittel,  ihn  niederzuh  Iten  und  sich  die  Ver- 
bindung  mit  Polen  zu  sichern,  als  die  Contribution,  die  Fest- 
ungen,  die  Etappenstrassen  und  alle  die  andern  Foltern  und 
Fesseln,  in  die  er  ihn  einschniirte.  Vergebens  waren  alle  Ver 
suche  der  preussischen  Regirung,  Erleichterung  der  Lasten  zu 
erreichen  ;  nur  immer  druckender  wurde  das  Joch.  Die  Mis- 
sionen  Knobelsdorfs,  Brockhausens  und  des  Prinzen  Wilhelm 
nach  Paris  blieben  ganz  ohne  Nutzen.  Es  war  nur  zu  wahr, 
was  der  Kaiser  diesem,  als  er  ihn  im  Februar  1808  empfing, 
erkljirte  :  "  Das  Arrangement  Ihrer  Angelegenheiten  hat  seinen 
Platz  unter  den  Combinationen  der  allgemeinen   Politik,  die 


NAPOLEON    I.    UND   PREUSSEN.  86t 

in  der  Entwicklung  begrifFen  ist...  Im  Sommer  werden  viel- 
leicht  die  grossen  Angelegenheiten  arrangirt  sein."  Und  so 
war  es  in  der  Tat  nicht  die  grossere  oder  geringere  Geschick- 
lichkeit  der  preussischen  Unterhandler,  was  die  Wendung  her- 
beifiihrte,  sondern  der  Umschlag  in  der  allgemeinen  Politik  im 
Juli  dieses  Jahres  :  die  Capitulation  Duponts  bei  Baylen  in 
Andalusien  zwang  den  Eroberer,  seine  besten  Truppen  aus 
Norddeutschland  wegzunehmen,  und  in  Erfurt  dem  Zaren 
Finnland  und  die  Donauprovinzen  zu  cediren,  ohne  etwas 
anderes  als  das  Versprechen  zu  erhalten,  eventuell  gegen 
Oesterreich  mitzuhelfen.  Aber  wenn  er  hoffte,  dadurch  die 
Wiener  Angriffslust  zu  hemmen,  so  geschah,  wie  bemerkt,  das 
Gegenteil.  Und  wie  an  der  Donau,  so  erwachte  auch  in 
Preussen  alsbald  die  Hoffnung,  das  Joch  vom  Nacken  zu 
werfen. 

In  dem  engen  Rahmen  dieses  Essays  kann  ich  leider  nicht 
die  Agitation  schildern,  in  welche  sich  der  preussische  Staat 
durch  den  osterreichischen  Krieg  im  Jahr  1809  gesturzt  sah. 
Man  weiss,  dass  der  Konig  sich  zweimal  bis  dicht  vor  die  Er- 
hebung  driingen  liess,  im  Mai,  und  zwar  noch  vor  der  Sieges- 
kunde  von  Aspern,  und  Ende  Juli,  nachdem  Oesterreich  schon 
bei  Wagram  niedergeworfen  war  und  in  dem  Waffenstillstand 
von  Znaim  den  Frieden  mit  Napoleon  eingeleitet  hatte. 
Auch  will  ich  nicht  dariiber  richten,  ob  das  Eintreten  Preussens 
in  den  Krieg  Aussicht  auf  Erfolg  geboten  hatte,  ob  es  denkbar 
gewesen  ware,  rechtzeitig  neben  den  Oesterreichern  dem  Genie 
und  der  Kriegsmacht  des  franzosischen  Kaisers  zu  begegnen. 
Militarische  Erwagungen  allein  werden  niemals  dariiber  ent- 
scheiden  konnen,  da  es  dabei  vor  allem  auf  politische  Momente 
ankommt :  auf  die  Fragen,  ob  Oesterreich  Treue  gehalten  hatte, 
ob  der  Aufstand  in  den  westfalischen  Bereichen  ausgebrochen, 
ob  von  Alexander  irgend  etwas  zu  hoffen  und  nicht  eher  zu 
fiirchten  gewesen  ware.  Doch  wird  man  zugeben,  dass,  wenn 
iiberhaupt,  nur  im  Friihling,  als  Oesterreich  noch  aufrecht 
stand,  an  einen  Erfolg  zu  denken  gewesen  ware.  Nach 
Wagram  glaubten  die  Patrioten  selbst  kaum  noch  an  den  Sieg, 
und  als  vollends  das  kriegesmiide  Oesterreich  die  gebotene 
Hand  zuriickstiess,  war  ihrVersuch,  den  Konig  dennoch  in  den 
Kampf  hineinzustossen,    kaum  mehr  als  ein    Akt  der   Ver- 


862  COSMOPOLIS, 

zweiflung.  Sie  sahen  den  Untergang  vor  Augen.  Denn  Na- 
poleon basse  Preussen,  er  wolle  es  vernichten  und  werde  den 
letzten  Streich  fiihren,  sobald  er  mit  Oesterreich  fertig  sei  —  es 
bleibe  nichts  anderes  iibrig,  als  mit  Ehren  kampfend  zu  fallen. 

Und  freilich  batten  der  Konig  und  seine  Ratgeber  im  Herbst 
dieses  jabres  Grund  zur  Furcbt.  Denn  ibre  Rustungen  und 
Absicbten  batten  sicb  nicbt  verbergen  lassen,  und  im  System 
Napoleons  lag  es,  wie  wir  wissen,  jeden  Widerstand  niederzu- 
scblagen.  So  war  es  denn  ein  saurerGang  fur  den  preussischen 
Unterbandler,  Oberst  von  Krusemarck,  als  er  am  5.  November 
dem  Kaiser  den  Gliickwunscb  Friedricb  Wilbelms  zu  dem  sieg- 
reicben  Frieden  zu  iiberbringen  batte.  Unsere  patriotischen 
Historiker  scbaumen  vor  Entrustung  iiber  die  Brutalitaten  und 
Sottisen,  die  der  "  Korse/'  der  "  Nicbtswurdige "  bei  jener 
Audienz  dem  Preussen  ins  Gesicbt  gescbleudert  habe.  In  der 
Tat,  liebenswiirdig  war  der  Empfang,  den  Naf)oleon  dem  Ge- 
sandten  bereitete,  nicbt  zu  nennen  ;  aucb  Bismarck,  furcbte 
icb,  wiirde  im  analogen  Falle  einen  franzosiscben  Unterbandler 
nicbt  eben  glimpflicb  bebandelt  baben. 

Aber  das  Ende  der  Zornreden  gegen  Scbill  und  "Bluquaire" 
und  die  revolutionirte  preussiscbe  Armee  entsprach  dem  pol- 
ternden  Ton  keineswegs.  Er  babe  zwar  das  Recht,  Preussen 
den  Krieg  zu  erklaren,  werde  es  aber  nicbt  tun.  Denn  v^-ozu  ? 
Etwa  um  in  Preussen  einen  Sprossen  seiner  Dynastie  einzu- 
setzen  ?  Das  wurde  keinen  andern  Zweck  baben,  als  eine  ent- 
artete  Nation  scbneller  zu  regeneriren  und  ibr  die  fur  ihr 
Dasein  erforderlicbe  Kraft  zu  geben.  Oder  um  das  Konigreich 
Westfalen  zu  vergrossern  ?  Er  dacbte  nicbt  daran  ;  denn  wenn 
aucb  sein  Bruder  ibn  nicbt  bekriegen  werde,  so  wurden  doch 
ibre  beiderseitigen  Nacbkommen  mit  einander  in  Kampf 
geraten.  Darum  wolle  er  sicb  mit  dem  Konige  von  Preussen 
verstandigen,  sobald  dieser  auf  dem  Platz  sei,  wobin  er  gebore 
— er  meinte  :  in  Berlin.  Kurz,  diese  Erklarung  war,  wie  scbon 
Ranke  bemerkt  bat,  durcbaus  friedlicb. 

Nur  batte  der  Kaiser  freilicb  keine  Ursacbe,  nach  solcben 
Vorgangen  die  Fesseln  zu  lockern.  Um  so  weniger,  als  in 
diesem  Winter  sicb  die  grosse  Wandlung  in  seinem  Verbaltnis 
zu  Russland  vollzog  :  mit  seiner  Werbung  um  die  Scbwester 
Alexanders,  durcb  die  er  die  Allianz  batte  sicbern  woUen,  bin- 


NAPOLEON    I.    UND   PREUSSEN.  863 

gehalten,  und  schliesslich  abgewiesen,  wandte  sich  Napoleon 
in  rascher  Schwenkung  dem  Kaiserhof  an  der  Donau  zu. 

Unter  dem  Druck  dieser  Wendung  hat  er  aufs  Neue,  diesmal 
direkt  beim  Berliner  Kabinett,  die  Forderung  erhoben,  die 
Contribution  mit  der  Cession  eines  Stuckes  von  Schlesien  ab- 
zukaufen,  ein  Plan,  der  offenbar  wieder  ebenso  sehr  gegen 
Kussland  wie  gegen  Preussen  gemiinzt  war.  Es  ist  bemerkens- 
wert,  dass  Napoleon  den  Gedanken  an  demselben  Tage  fasste, 
an  dem  er  auf  die  russische  Heirat  verzichtete  und  die  Werb- 
ung  um  die  osterreichische  Prinzessin  eroffnete  (6.  Februar 
1810). 

In  Preussen  fiihrte  diese  neue  Forderung  eine  innere  Krisis 
herbei.  Das  Ministerium  Altenstein,  dem  Scharnhorst  ange- 
horte,  glaubte  den  Staat  nicht  anders  retten  zu  konnen,  als 
indem  es  die  Abtretung  der  grossten  Provinz  gegen  den  Erlass 
der  Contribution  und  einen  volligen  Systemwechsel,  den  engen 
Anschluss  an  den  unbezwinglichen  Kaiser,  anriet ;  wie  denn 
gerade  Scharnhorst  mehr  als  einmal  fiir  die  preussische  Politik 
die  Alternative  entschlossensten  Widerstandes  oder  wirklicher 
Verbindung  mit  dem  Eroberer  gestellt  und  gefordert  hat.  Es 
war  zunachst  der  Konig,  dessen  dynastisches  Gefiihl  sich  gegen 
den  Verlust  seines  besten  Besitzes  straubte  ;  er  entliess  das  Mi- 
nisterium und  beauftragte  Hardenberg,  der  sich  anheischig 
machte,  das  Geld  trotzdem  herbeizuschaffen,  mit  der  Fiihrung 
der  Geschafte.  Aber  die  Hauptsache  war  doch  (denn  die 
Zahlungsschwierigkeiten  blieben,  wie  sie  waren),  dass  Napoleon 
nicht  wieder  auf  jene  Forderung  zuriickkam,  die  eben  nur  jenem 
Moment  des  Zornes  und  der  Abwendung  von  Russland  ent- 
sprochen  hatte.  Denn  den  volligen  Bruch  mit  Alexander 
wiinschte  er  trotzdem  zu  vermeiden,  und  selbst  das  neue  Ver- 
hiiltnis  zu  Oesterreich  duldete  kaum  die  Annexion  Schlesiens. 

Seit  dem  Friihjahr  181 1  aber  spitzten  sich  die  Verhaltnisse 
so  zu,  dass  der  Kampf  mit  der  letzten  Grossmacht  des  Kon- 
tinents,  die  sich  neben  dem  Eroberer  aufrecht  erhielt,  unver- 
meidlich  erscheinen  musste.  ja  es  schien  einen  Moment,  als 
ob  Alexander  ihn  beginnen  und  die  Rolle  Oesterreichs  wieder- 
holen  wurde,  als  er  im  Friihjahr  in  Verbindung  mit  Fiirst 
Adam  Czartorysky,  dem  Fiihrer  der  russischen  Partei  in  Polen 
in  plotzlichem  Anfall  das  Herzogtum  Warschau  zu  (iberrennen 


864  COSMOPOLIS. 

dachte.  Es  waren  die  alten  preussischen  Provinzen,  dieselben, 
die  er  im  Herbs!  1805,  den  Einfliisterungen  desselben  pol- 
nischen  Magnaten,  damals  seines  Ministers,  folgend,  Friedrich 
Wilhelm  zu  entreissen  liistern  gewesen  war.  Jetzt  hoffte  er  sie 
fiir  sich  gewinnen  zu  konnen,  indem  er  die  preussische  Annee 
selbst  als  Avantgarde  gegen  den  Zwingherren  Preussens  vor- 
schickte.  Aehnlich  ist  es  ja  spater  gekommen  :  erst  der  Vertrag 
von  Kalisch,  in  dem  Friedrich  Wilhelm  auf  seine  polnischen 
Weichselprovinzen  verzichten  musste,  hat  den  genieinsamen 
Kampf  gegen  Napoleon  ermoglicht.  Im  Fruhjahr  181 1  waren 
es  die  Polen  selbst,  die  sich  der  "  Befreiung  "  durch  den  Zaren 
versagten,  und  darum  scheute  Alexander  im  letzten  Moment 
vor  dem  Wagnis  zuriick.  Napoleon  aber  bemerkte  die  Gefahr 
erst,  als  sie  fast  voriiber  war,  und  der  Zar  sich  mehr  als  je  in 
die  passive  Haltung  zuruckzog.  Und  auch  in  Preussen  zitterte 
die  Erregung,  in  welche  es  die  Riistungen  huben  und  druben, 
die  Anerbietungen  Alexanders  und  die  Furcht  vor  einem  ver- 
nichtenden  Angriff  Napoleons  gesetzt  hatten,  noch  lange  in 
stiirmischen  Verhandlungen  der  Kriegs-  und  Friedenspartei 
nach,  als  der  Zar,  der  seine  polnischen  Plane  in  tiefes  Dunkel 
gehullt,  sie  schon  wieder  aufgegeben  hatte. 

Fiir  Napoleon  war  die  feindselige  Apathie  des  Zaren  fast 
noch  unleidlicher  als  ein  rascher  Bruch.  Denn  in  seinen 
Planen  gegen  England  war  er  auch  so  gelahmt.  Oder  wie 
hiitte  er  die  Landung  wagen  konnen,  wenn  er  in  jedem  Mo- 
ment den  Riickenangriff  seiner  Gegner  unter  Russlands  Fuhr- 
ung  hatte  befiirchten  miissen  !  In  Portugal  hatte  Wellington 
die  Linien  von  Torres  Vedras  gegen  alle  Sturmangriffe  Mas- 
senas  verteidigt  und  den  Vormarsch  siegreich  begonnen.  Auch 
Frankreich  begann  die  unaufhorlichen  Opfer  schwer  zu  em- 
pfinden.  Man  horte,  so  berichtet  ein  russischer  Diplomat 
schon  im  Januar  181 1,  den  Kaiser  bisweilen  rasch,  mit  ge- 
dampfter  Stimme  und  ungeduldig  sagen,  wenn  die  Englander 
es  noch  lange  aushielten,  so  wisse  er  nicht,  was  daraus  werden 
und  was  er  anfangen  solle.  Die  Weigerung  Alexanders,  das 
Edikt  gegen  die  Neutralen  auszufiihren,  hatte  die  Kontinental- 
sperre  fur  Russland  fast  illusorisch  gemacht,  und  sein  ZoUgesetz 
gegen  die  franzosischen  Weine  und  Seidenstoflfe  war  eine 
geradezu  beleidigende   und  feindselige    Maassregel    gewesen. 


NAPOLEON   1.   UND   PKEUSSEN.  865 

Hiilte  er,  was  jcden  Augeiiblick  zu  furchten  war,  die  Hafen 
den  Englandern  vollends  geoffnet  und  seinen  Frieden  mil 
ihnen  geschlossen,  so  ware  das  nicht  bloss  dem  Bruche  der 
Allianz,  sondern  dem  Bunde  mit  dem  unversohnlichen  Feinde 
des  franzosischen  Kaisers  gleichgekommen.  Auch  dem  Zaren 
gegeniiber  gab  es  fur  Napoleon  kein  andercs  Gesetz  als  gegen 
jeden  Staat  des  Festlandes  :  er  musste  ihn  bei  sich  festhalten 
Oder  ihn  niederwerfen. 

Aber  wie  konnte  er  an  ihn  herankommen,  wenn  er  sich 
beharrHch  hinter  seinen  Grenzen  hielt  ?  Er  musste  den 
Xiemen  wieder  erreichen,  die  Stellung  von  1807.  Dann  erst 
durfte  er  darauf  rechnen,  Litthauen  in  Aufstand  zu  bringen, 
die  Tiirken  gegen  die  Krim,  die  Schweden,  wie  er  noch  hoffte, 
auf  Finnland  und  Petersburg  zu  hetzen. 

Lag  es  nun  in  seinem  Interesse,  Preussen  auf  dem  Wege  an- 
zugreifen  ?  Er  hatte  befurchten  miissen,  dass  Alexander  aus 
seinen  Grenzen  herausbrach  und  Polen  iiberrannte,  bevor  er 
selbst  hingelangte.  Nun  kann  man  vielleicht  urteilen,  dass  er 
dann  den  elementaren  Machten,  die  ihn  in  Russland  iiber- 
waltigten,  entgangen,  dass  es  ein  Krieg  fiir  ihn  geworden  ware 
wie  der  Feldzug  gegen  Oesterreich,  gestiitzt  auf  die  Festungen 
an  der  Oder  und  der  Weichsel  und  rings  umgeben  von  hilf- 
reichen  Vasallen.  So  die  Meinung  Vandals,  wahrend  von 
deutscher  Seite  neuerdings  die  Chancen  fiir  eine  preussische 
Erhebung  an  der  Seite  Kusslands  im  Jahr  181 1  als  recht 
giinstig  bezeichnet  worden  sind.  Ich  will  mit  meinem  Urteil 
zuriickhalten.  Jedenfalls  rechnete  Napoleon  anders  als  der 
Historiker  der  Allianz  von  Tilsit.  Er  hielt  es  fur  unabweisbar, 
erst  die  russische  Grenze  zu  erreichen.  Wie  ein  Wildbach, 
sprach  er,  woUe  er  iiber  Preussen  hinweg,  d.  h.  ohne  Aufenthalt 
bis  an  den  Niemen  hinstiirzen,  um  von  dort  aus  mit  der 
gesamten  Macht  den  letzten  Gegner  niederzustossen. 

Dazu  bedurfte  er  aber  mehr  als  je  der  Strassen  und  Festun- 
gen des  unterworfenen  Staates.  Und  nur  um  so  mehr,  weil 
er  damit  zugleich  jede  Kegung  des  Widerstandes  in  ihm  er- 
sticken  konnte.     Er  musste  ihn  voUig  in  seiner  Gewalt  haben. 

So  sahen  die  preussischen  Patrioten  aufs  Neue  die  schwerste 
Wolke  des  Unheils  herannahen.  Diese  endlosen  Durchzuge 
von  Truppen,  Munitionskolonnen  und  Zufuhren,  die  unablas- 


866  COSMOPOLIS. 

sige  Verstarkung  der  Besatzungen  in  den  Oder-  und  Weichsel- 
Festungen,  die  immer  neuen  Forderungen  und  dabei  das 
Schweigen  des  Unergriindlichen  auf  alle  Anfragen,  das  Ab- 
lehnen  der  Bundesantrage  selbst  und  das  Ableugnen  feindseli- 
ger  Absichten  gegen  Russland  —  sprach  das  nicht  Alles  fur  die 
Absicht,  Preussen  zu  vernichten  ?  Konnte  es  starkere  Beweise 
geben  fur  die  Unaustilgbarkeit  seines  Hasses,  die  Unersattlich- 
keit  seiner  Herrschsucht  ?  So  batten  sie  schon  die  ersten 
Vorbereitungen  im  Marz  und  April  gedeutet.  Je  starker  aber 
die  franzosischen  Rustungen  wurden,  um  so  grosser  ihre 
Besorgnisse.  Man  musse  sich  dem  Eroberer  entgegenstellen, 
so  lange  man  noch  die  Schlinge  nicht  ganz  um  den  Hals  habe, 
Spandau,  und  wenn  es  dafiir  zu  spat  sei,  Colberg,  Graudenz, 
Pillau  besetzen,  mit  dem  Riicken  gegen  das  Meer  und  gegen 
Russland,  wie  Wellington  in  den  Torres  Vedras,  und  Zar 
Alexander  herbeiziehen.  Auch  jetzt  glaubten  die  Patrioten 
kaum  an  den  Sieg.  "  Wenn  die  Vorsehung  das  Wunder  tun 
will,  Preussen  zu  erhalten/'  schreibt  Scharnhorst  schon  am  15. 
April  in  einem  Gutachten,  worin  er  den  Krieg  empfiehlt. 

Den   Heldenmut    der  Manner,  die   dem   Staate  lieber   ein 
Ende    im    hoffnungslosen    Kampf    als    ehrlosen    Untergang 
wiinschten,  werden  wir  immer  bewundern  miissen.     Und  es 
kann  wol  sein,  dass  die  Aussicht  auf  den  Erfolg  grosser  ge- 
wesen  ist,  als  sie  selbst   zu  hoffen   wagten  —  wenigstens  im 
Friihjahr,  so  lange  Alexander  noch  an  die  Offensive  dachte. 
Aber  ihre  politische  Einsicht,  das  diirfen  wir  uns  nicht  ver- 
hehlen,  war  gering.    Auf  diesem  Felde  waren  sie  Dilettanten. 
Sie  rechneten  niemals  mit  der  allgemeinen  Situation,  in  der 
Zar  und  Kaiser  zu  einander  standen,  und  mit  den  Schu^an- 
kungen,   denen   dieselbe  unterworfen    war.     Dass   Polen  das 
eigentliche  Motiv  war  in  der  verschlagenen  Politik  Alexanders, 
blieb  ihnen  ebenso  verborgen  wie   die  Wechselwirkung  der 
Plane   Napoleons  gegen    England   mit   seiner   festliindischen 
Politik.     In  ihren  Kreisen  ist  die  legendarische  Auffassung  von 
der  zwecklosen  Eroberungsgier   des  Kaisers  recht  eigentlich 
ausgebildet,  welche  unsere  Geschichtsschreibung  so  lange  be- 
herrscht  hat.    Indem  sie  aber  den  Krieg  predigten,  beschworen 
sie  gerade  dadurch  die  Gefahr  des  Angriffes  herauf.     Denn 
eine   Hemmung  auf  dem  Wege  zum  Niemen  wollte  freilich 


NAPOLEON    I.    UND    PRErSSEN.  867 

Napoleon  nicht  erfahren  ;  uiid  alle  seine  Riistungen  waren  so 
getroffen,  dass  sie  sich  in  jedem  Moment  ebenso  gut  gegen 
Preussen  wie  gegen  Russland  wenden  konnten.  Im  Novem- 
ber 181 1  schien  bereits  die  Stunde  der  Entscheidung  gekom- 
men.  Damals  wartete  Davoust  nur  auf  einen  Wink  seines 
Herren,  um  das  rings  umstellte  Preussen  zu  uberfallen,  und 
nur  die  schleunige  Unterwerfung  des  Konigs  hielt  die  Schwer- 
ter  in  den  Scheiden. 

Fur  die  Ansicht  der  Patrioten  beweist  dies  offenbar  ebenso 
wenig  wie  die  Riistungen  selbst.  Dass  Napoleon  jeden  Wider- 
stand  niederschlagen  wurde,  verstand  sich  bei  ihm  von  selbst ; 
er.verfuhr  darin  gegen  Preussen  nicht  anders,  wie  etwa  gegen 
seinen  Bruder,  Konig  Louis  von  Holland,  und  jeden  andern 
seiner  Bundesgenossen.  Im  Gegenteil  ;  bei  seinem  Tempera- 
ment mochte  man  sich  fast  uber  die  Langmut  wundern,  mit 
der  er  den  ganz  offenkundigen  Riistungen  und  Winkelziigen 
des  Berliner  Kabinettes  zusah. 

Zum  Teil  trug  hieran  freilich  die  Schuld  sein  Gesandter 
in  Berlin,  der  seint:  Stellung,  mochte  man  fast  sagen,  mehr  im 
Sinne  Preussens  als  Frankreichs  auffasste.  Es  war  der 
Marchese  di  San  Marsano — oder  Graf  St.  Marsan,  wie  der  von 
Napoleon  ihm  verliehene  Titel  lautete — ,  ein  savoyardischer 
Edelmann,  einst  Minister  in  Piemont  und  Gegner  Frank- 
reichs, der  aber  seinen  Frieden  mit  dem  Allgewaltigen 
gemacht  hatte  und  Ende  1808  von  ihm  nach  Berlin  gesandt 
war.  Seine  Berichte  sind  in  einem  Grade  wolwollend,  ja 
verblendet  fiir  Preussen,  dass  man  wol  gemeint  hat  und 
sich  kaum  des  Verdachtes  erwehren  kann,  er  habe  sie 
absichtlich  gefarbt  und  den  Kaiser  nicht  aufrichtig  bedient. 
Aber  er  erfiillte  mit  seiner  conniventen  Diplomatie  wirklich 
nur  seine  Auftragc.  "  Meinerseits,"  schreibt  er  am  i.  Juli 
1809,  in  den  kritischen  Tagen  zwischen  Aspern  und  Wagram, 
dem  Minister  Champagny,  "  folge  ich  der  Verhaltungslinie,  die 
Ew.  Exc.  mir  vorgezeichnet  haben,  und  beobachte  die  grosste 
Massigung.  Ich  unterlasse  alle  Klagen,  die  nicht  dringlich 
sind,  und  bin  in  meinen  Antworten  so  liebenswiirdig  wie  nur 
moglich." — "Ich  werde,"  bemerkt  er  in  demselben  Bericht, 
"  mich  aufs  Aeusscrste  bemiihen,  um  die  hier  herrschende  Idee 
zu  zerstoren,  als  Jachte  man  an  eine  zweite   Invasion  des 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXVII  17 


868  f  COSMOPOLIS. 

Landes."  Er  verdoppele,  fugt  er  am  andern  Tage  hinzu. 
seine  Liebenswiirdigkeit  und  Geduld  und  schliesse  so  viel  als 
moglich  iiber  das,  was  vorgehe,  die  Augen.  Dass  der  Konig 
loyal  denke  und  eine  aufrichtige  Vereinigung  mit  Frankreich 
wiinsche,  blieb  bis  zuletzt  seine  Ueberzeugung.  Auch  an 
Hardenberg  glaubte  er  felsenfest,  und  der  Staatskanzler 
verstand  es  vorziiglich,  dies  Vertrauen  auszunutzen,  um  die 
grosse  Wendung  vorzubereiten.  St.  Marsan  war  es,  der  seine 
Riickberufung  in  das  Ministerium,  aus  dem  er  in  Tilsit  von 
Napoleon  gejagt  war,  bei  diesem  durchsetzte,  und  erst  in 
Breslau  sind  ihm  die  Augen  aufgegangen. 

Nun  mag  man  sagen,  dass  der  Kaiser  sich  vielleicht  ab- 
sichtlich  dies  stumpfe  Werkzeug  ausgewahlt  habe,  um  desto 
sicherer  und  verborgener  seine  Netze  zu  stellen.  Er  wurde 
sich  so  in  seiner  eigenen  Schlinge  gefangen  haben.  Aber 
dann  miisste  doch  in  den  Akten,  die  heute  ruckhaltlos  aufge- 
deckt  sind,  irgend  eine  Notiz  oder  Andeutung  uber  seine 
schlimmen  Absichten  enthalten  sein.  Aber  nichts  dergleichen 
findet  sich  darin.  Das  einzige  Dokument,  das  sie  beweisen 
konnte,  ein  Gutachten  Champagnys  aus  dem  November  iSii, 
in  dem  er  fiir  die  Vernichtung  Preussens  pladirt,  hat  sich 
langst  als  gefalscht  herausgestellt.  Vielmehr  entsprechen  die 
geheimen  Schriftstiicke,  die  Vortrage  der  Minister  vor  dem 
Kaiser,  die  intimen  Weisungen  fiir  den  Gesandten  im  Wesent- 
lichen  der  Haltung,  die  dieser  dem  Berliner  Kabinett  gegen- 
iiber  beobachtete.  Und  wenn  Napoleon  einmal  im  Herbst 
1811  iiber  die  allzu  grosse  Blindheit  St.  Marsans  gegen  die 
Intriguen  und  Riistungen  in  Preussen  argerlich  wurde  und 
an  seine  Abberufung  dachte,  blieben  doch  auch  damals  seine 
Instruktionen  dieselben.  J  a  man  muss  sagen,  dass  der  Kaiser 
den  preussischen  Hof  viel  aufrichtiger  behandelt  hat  als 
dieser  ihn,  und  dass  seine  personlichen  und  ofiiziellen  Er- 
klarungen  sich  mit  seinen  geheimen  Befehlen  im  Wesent- 
lichen  deckten. 

So  kehrt  z.  B.  die  Sprache,  die  er  nach  dem  Siege  iiber 
Oesterreich  gegen  Krusemarck  fiihrte,  wortlich  wieder  in  einer 
Depesche  Marets,  des  Herzogs  von  Bassano,  der  Champagny 
im  Ministerium  des  Auswartigen  abgelost  hatte,  aus  dem 
Oktober  1811,  worin  er  iibrigens  die  allzu  grosse  Vertrauens- 


NAPOLEON   I.   UND   PREUSSEN.  869 

seligkeit  des  Gesandten  aufs  scharfste  rugt.  "  Wenn  der  Konig 
von  Preussen,"  heisst  es  hier,  "  endlich  die  Maassregeln 
annimmt,  welche  seiner  Lage  entsprechen,  so  wird  Seine 
Majestat  sich  nicht  weniger  auf  Preussen  verlassen,  als  wenn 
der  Konig  von  Westfalen  in  Berlin  regirte  ;  aber  die  Auf- 
richtigkeit  muss  eine  unbedingte,  und  der  Kaiser  iiber 
Preussen  ebenso  ruhig  sein  konnen  wie  iiber  Westfalen  und 
Bayern  ;  er  kann  es  aber  nur,  wenn  Preussen  auf  seine  alien 
Illusionen  verzichtet,  seinen  wahren  Rang  einnimmt  und 
keine  andern  Vorteile  beansprucht  als  diejenigen,  welche  es 
erreichen  kann."  Am  nachsten  Tage  gab  Maret  dem  Gesand- 
ten genaue  Instruktionen  iiber  die  Linie,  die  er  fortan  einzu- 
halten  habe :  "Seine  Majestat,"  heisst  es  darin  unter  Anderm, 
"hatte  Preussen  zerstoren  konnen,  sie  hat  es  nicht  gewoUt. 
Sie  hat  kein  Interesse  daran,  es  zu  woUen,  wenn  Preussen  nicht 
aus  seiner  natiitlichen  Stellung  heraustritt.  Sie  will  es  durch- 
aus  nicht,  weil  sie  ein  System  bilden  will,  in  dem  Preussen  den 
ersten  Rang  unter  den  Machten  zweiter  Ordnung  einnehmen 
soil."  Und  ebenso  in  einer  confidentiellen  Note  des  Ministers 
ein  paar  Wochen  vorher  :  "Seine  Majestat  sieht  mil  Ver- 
gniigen  den  Konig  von  Preussen  im  Besitz  seiner  Staaten. 
Sie  hat  ein  Interesse  daran,  dass  er  seine  Macht  bewahre,  so 
wie  sie  ist,  und  wird  keinen  andern  Wunsch  haben,  so  lange 
derselbe  fest  auf  der  Ausfiihrung  des  Kontinentalsy stems 
besteht." 

Die  Besorgnis  der  antifranzosischen  Partei  in  Preussen  fand 
besonders  ihre  Nahrung  in  dem  Schweigen  des  Kaisers  auf 
alle  Bundesantrage  und  in  dem  Ableugnen  der  Kriegsgefahr. 
Dies  schien  ihnen  im  krassesten  Widerspruch  zu  stehen  zu 
den  ungeheuren  Riistungen  und  der  Weigerung,  Glogau  als 
Preis  der  Allianz  dem  Konig  zuriickzugeben.  Aber  Letzteres 
forderte  doch  das  gewiss  gerechtfertigte  Misstrauen  des 
Kaisers  in  die  Aufrichtigkeit  jener  Anerbietungen ;  und 
andererseits  war  es  vollig  richtig,  dass  die  Frage,  ob  Krieg 
Oder  Frieden,  noch  in  der  Schwebe  war,  und  dass  Napoleon, 
wie  sehr  er  auch  Alles  auf  den  Zusammenstoss  vorbereitete, 
ihn  immer  noch  zu  vermeiden  wiinschte.  Es  war  in  der  Tat 
schon  ein  Abweichen  von  dieser  Linie,  als  er  auf  das  Ulti- 
matum Hardenbergs  vom  26.  August  seinem  Gesandten  die 


870  COSMOPOLIS. 

Weisung  zugehen  Hess,  in  die  Verhandlung  uber  die  Allianz 
einzutreten. 

Um  die  Hoffnung,  welche  St.  Marsan  auf  eine  "  offene  und 
aufrichtige  Union  "  zwischen  Frankreich  und  Preussen  setzte, 
ganz  zu  verstehen,   mussen  wir    auch   der   Stimmungen  ge- 
denken,  die  in   Preussen   damals  uber  Frankreich  herrschten. 
In  den    Berichten  des  franzosischen  Gesandten  werden  diese 
nicht  als    besonders  feindselig    geschildert.      Die   Masse  der 
Nation  erscheint  ihm  recht  gleichgiltig  ;  erieichtere  man  ihr 
die  Lasten  der  Contribution,  so  werde  sie  sich  leicht  mit  dem 
franzosischen    System     befreunden.      Die    grossen     Besitzer, 
meinte  er  im  Marz  1809,  also  kurz  bevor  Schill  ausbrach,  die 
Geschaftsleute  und   alle   Vernunftigen   wunschten    nichts   als 
Frieden  und  Ruhe  und  wurden  mit  einer  Armee,  die  gerade 
so  gross  ware,  um    die   Polizei   im   Lande  auszuuben,   sehr 
zufrieden     sein.      Neben     Hardenberg     nennt     er      Beyme, 
Kalckreuth,  Tauentzien   und   eine  Reine  anderer   hoher  Be- 
amter  und  Militars  als  Gutgesinnte.    Auch  von  der  Konigin 
vernahm  er  im  Februar    1810  durch   einen  "guten    Kanal," 
sie  sei  in  ihren  Gefuhlen  gegen  Russland  sehr  erkaltet   und 
denke  mit  lebhaftem  Vergnugen  an  eine  Reise  nach  Paris,  um 
den  Bund  mit  Frankreich  enger  zu  knupfen.  Und  ebenso  merk- 
wurdig  ist  es,  was  er  im  August  181 1  iiber  den  jungen  Kron- 
prinzen  zu  berichten  weiss,  der  damals  schon  den   Einflussen 
Delbrucks  entzogen  war  und  unter  der  Leitung  Ancillons  stand. 
Derselbe  habe  sich  uber  die  Tugendbiindler  und  ihre  altdeut- 
schen  Manieren  lustig  gemacht.    Zum  Beweise  legte  er  die 
Durchzeichnung  einer  Karrikatur  von    der  Hand  des  jungen 
Prinzen  bei,  die  ihm  kein  Geringerer  als  der  General  Tauent- 
zien iibermittelt  hatte.    Von  der  Armee  schreibt  er  im  Herbst 
dieses  jahres,  sie  wiinsche  zum  grossten  Teil  den  Krieg  gegen 
Frankreich  nicht  und  glaube  nicht  an  den  Sieg,  wenngleich  sie 
sich  wacker   schlagen  wurde.      Die  Masse    der  Nation  aber 
furchte  davon  die  Auflosung  des  Staates  und  sehe  den  Ereig- 
nissen  in  einer  Art  von  Apathie  entgegen.     Diese  Eindrucke 
verstarkten  sich   ihm  nur,  als  der  Bund  endlich  geschlossen 
war.     Das  Volk  sei  glQcklich  dariiber  und  bezeuge   laut  seine 
Genugtuung  ;  die  Armee  begriisse  den  Kampf  gegen  Russland 
als  eine   neue  Bahn  des  Ruhmes.     Den  wenigen  Offizieren, 


NAPOLEON    I.   UND   PREUSSEN.  871 

welche  damals  ihren  Abschied  forderten,  stellt  er  die  Mel- 
dungen  vieler  Anderer  zum  Eintritt  in  das  Corps  Yorks  ent- 
gegen,  besonders  von  Gardeoffizieren,  darunter  des  jungen 
NefFen  des  Konigs,  Prinz  Friedrichs,  und  seines  Halbbruders, 
des  Capitans  Grafen  Brandenburg  von  den  Gardes  du  Corps. 

Solche  Ansichten  entsprechen  wieder  wenig  der  landlaufi- 
gen  Ueberlieferung,  die  sich  nicht  genug  tun  kann  in  der 
Schilderung  des  tiefgliihenden  Hasses,  der  das  Volk  in  alien 
seinen  Schichten,  vor  allem  in  der  Armee  erfullt  habe  ;  mit 
Miihe  habe  es  sich  im  Zaun  halten  lassen  und  dem  Tage  der 
Rache  mit  fiebernder  Wut  entgegen  gesehen.  Aber  die 
Beobachtungen  dieses  Fremden  werden  durch  hundert  un- 
verdachtige  Zeugnisse,  sogar  aus  dem*  Lager  der  Patrioten 
selbst  bestatigt,  und  ich  zweifle  nicht,  dass  sich  bei  naherem 
Zusehen  die  gebrauchliche  Farbengebung  auch  nur  wieder 
als  ein  Stuck  der  legendarischen  Tradition  herausstellen  wiirde, 
welche  das  wahre  Bild  der  Ereignisse  dicht  verschleiert  hat.  Der 
materielle  Druck  und  die  Ungewissheit  des  Schicksals  lasteten 
schwer  auf  der  Bevolkerung,  aber  die  grossen  Gedanken  :  Ehre, 
Freiheit,  Vaterland  sind  in  den  Jahren  der  Unterdriickung 
unter  der  Menge  noch  selten  genug  zu  finden.  Der  Ruhm 
der  Helden,  in  deren  Seele  sie  schon  mit  reiner  Flamme 
gliihten,  wird  dadurch  wahrlich  nicht  geringer.  Indem  sie 
Konig  und  Regirung  endlich  in  den  rettenden  Krieg  hinein- 
stiessen,  ward  sich  erst  die  Nation  unter  dem  machtigen  Ein- 
druck  des  Kampfes  und  der  Siege  ihrer  selbst  bewusst  und 
entziindete  sich  mit  wachsender  Glut  an  den  Leidenschaften 
und  Idealen  ihrer  Fiihrer. 

Ein  Erfolg  Napoleons  gegen  Russland  hatte  ohne  Zweifel 
der  franzosischen  Partei  im  Rate  des  Konigs  das  Ueberge- 
wicht  verschafft  und  ihn  wie  sein  Volk  in  der  Stimmung  der 
Ergebung  unter  den  Willen  des  Eroberers  festgehalten.  Ich 
mochte  meinen,  dass  auch  Hardenberg,  er,  den  ''die  all- 
machtigen  Stunden  beherrschten,"  in  solchem  Falle  seinen 
Anker  nach  dieser  Seite  ausgeworfen  hatte. 

Soil  man  aber  glauben,  dass  der  Kaiser  nach  dem  Siege  den 
Staat,  an  dessen  Zerstorung  er  schon  vorher  kein  Interesse  hatte, 
vernichtet  haben,  einen  seiner  Briider  damit  ausgestattet  oder 
ihn  in  Stucke  zerschlagen  und  unter  Polen,  Oesterreich  und 


872  COSMOPOLIS. 

Sachsen  ausgeteilt  haben  wurde  ?    Als  der  Konig  von  Preussen 

ihm   den    Krieg  eiklarte,   hat   er  diesen    Plan  gefasst.     Aber 

keine  Minute  eher.     Er  folgte  in  jedem  Moment  nur  seinem 

Interesse,  dam  was  sein  System  ihra  gebot.     Wo  aber  lag  sein 

Interesse  an  der  Zerstorung  Preussens,  wenn  es  in  sein  Fahr- 

wasser  hineingesteuert  und  der  Politik  gefolgt  ware,  zu  der  er  es 

schon  im  jahre  1803  hatte  verfiihren  wollen  ?     Nur  ^^'^er  ihm 

entgegentrat,  war  sein  Feind.     Der  Zar  war  es  geworden  :  auf 

dessen   Kosten  hatte  er  seine  Alliirten  entschadigt,  schon  um 

ihn  mit  seinen  Nachbaren  zu  verfeinden.     Das  beste  Loos 

wurde  gewiss  Polen  gezogen,  Wilna  und,  wer  weiss,  vielleicht 

Kiew    wieder     erlangt     haben.      Auch    der     osterreichische 

Schwiegervater    hatte  seine  Belohnung  erhalten,  die   ihm  in 

dem  Bundesvertrage  bereits  versprochen  war.     Doch  sehe  ich 

nicht    ein,   weshalb    die    sehr  unbestimmt  lautenden    Worte 

dariiber  gerade  auf   Schlesien  bezogen   werden    miissen,  wie 

man,  offenbar  unter  dem  Eindruck  der  Vernichtungstheorie 

anzunehmen  pflegt.     Man  konnte  ebenso  wol  an  die  Donau- 

provinzen  oder  an  die  Lander  nahe  der  Adria  denken  ;  denn 

ich    kann    nicht   glauben,  dass  die  Aufstellung    Oesterreichs 

zwischen   Polen  und  Sachsen    fur   Napoleon   sonderlich  an- 

genehm  gewesen  ware.     Warum  hatte  aber  Friedrich  Wiihelm 

leer  ausgehen  sollen  ?     Auch  fiir  ihn  war  eine  Entschadigung, 

freilich  noch  unbestimmter  als  fiir  Kaiser  Franz,  in  Aussicht 

genommen  worden.     Ich  denke,  Schwedisch-Pommern  (denn 

Bernadotte   musste  fiir   seinen   Abfall   bestraft  werden)    und 

vielleicht  auch  ein  Stiick  der  Ostseeprovinzen  bis  Mietau  oder, 

gar  bis  Riga  hinauf,  waren  unserm  Staate  ausgeliefert  worden. 

Und  wer  weiss,  ob  nicht   Hardenberg  in  diesem  Falle  seine 

Hoffnungen  noch  hoher  gespannt  und  die  Personalunion  mit 

Polen,   welche  Alexander  fiir  sich  begehrt  hatte,   fiir   seinen 

Konig  angestrebt  hatte  !     Es  war  ein  Gedanke,  den  er  schon 

im   Friihling   181 1    geaussert  hatte,   und   den  er  auch  gegen 

St.  Marsan  einmal  durchschimmern  Hess. 

Halten  wir  daran  fest,  dass  der  wahre  Feind  Napoleons  Eng- 
land war,  auf  dessen  Niederwerfung  mitten  in  den  Riistungen 
gegen  Russland  sein  Absehen  mehr  als  je  gerichtet  war.  Man 
lese  nur  seine  zahlreichen  Weisungen  an  seinen  Marineminister 
Admiral  Decrfes  gerade  aus  diesen  Jahren,  wie  unaufhorlich  er 


NAPOLEON   I.    UND   PREUSSEN.  873 

darin  die  Verstarkung  seiner  Marine  betreibt  und  den  Angriff 
in  der  Front  gegen  die  englische  Kiiste  im  Auge  behalt.  Dies 
war  sein  Plan  und  nicht  etwa  der  Zug  nach  Indien  iiber 
Moskau  hinaus.  War  er  doch  fast  wider  Erwarten  zu  dem 
Marsch  gegen  die  russische  Haiiptstadt  durch  die  Riickzugs- 
strategie  des  Zaren  gezwungen  worden.  Er  woUte  Alexander 
in  einem  Feldzuge,  mit  einem  oder  ein  paar  gewaltigen  Stossen 
zu  Boden  werfen,  dann  aber  die  Wendung  gegen  den  Erbfeind 
Frankreichs  machen.  Denn  dann  durfte  er  wirklich  hofFen 
auf  der  Pyrenaischen  Halbinsel  ohne  Muhe  Herr  zu  werden 
und  den  Kontinent  gegen  England  zu  schliessen,  ohne  be- 
fiirchten  zu  miissen,  dass  ihm  ein  Feind  in  den  Riicken  falle. 

Nehmen  wir  einen  Augenblick  an,  dass  Napoleon  iiber 
Russen  und  Englander  gesiegt  und  die  Dinge  so  sich  gefiigt 
hatten. — Preussen  wiire  ein  Staat  geworden  von  fast  ausschliess- 
lich  protestantisch-deutschem  Charakter,  die  baltisch-deutsche 
Vasallenmacht  Frankreichs,  umgeben  von  dem  vergrosserten 
Polen  und  den  Staaten  des  Rheinbundes,  unter  den  Machten 
zweiter  Ordnung  eine  der  ersten  —  wjihrend  Russland  tief  in 
den  Osten  und  das  Binnenland  zuriickgeschleudert  ware.  Wie 
lange  wiirde  ein  solches  Europa  wol  bestanden  haben  ?  Auf 
Legitimirung  seiner  Gewalt,  auf  die  Griindung  einer  Dynastie 
waren  alle  Absichten  Napoleons  gerichtet.  Ob  ihm  das  Schick- 
sal  auch  im  Siege  die  Zeit  gelassen  haben  wiirde  ?  Die  Krank- 
heit,  die  seinen  stahlernen  Korper  auf  St.  Helena  so  rasch 
zerbrach,  hatte  ihn  auch  auf  dem  Throne  schwerlich  verschont. 
Und  wie  soil  man  glauben,  dass  die  Vasallenreiche,  dass  die 
besiegten  Parteien  in  Frankreich  selbst  eine  solche  Katastrophe 
ruhig  hatten  voriibergehen  lassen  ?  Man  wird  vielmehr  sagen 
diirfen,  dass  der  Tod  des  Eroberers  und  die  Thronfolge  des 
Knaben,  den  er  hinterliess,  alle  seine  Feinde,  so  gut  wie  seine 
Niederlage  in  Russland,  gegen  sein  kaum  festgewurzeltes 
System  in  die  Schranken  gerufen  haben  wiirden. 

Doch  genug  der  unfruchtbaren  Betrachtung  von  Eventuali- 
taten,  die  so  weit  von  allem  Geschehenen  abweichen.  Die 
Geschicke  haben  es  anders  gefiigt.  Im  Kampf  gegen  den 
Unterdriicker,  im  Volkersturm,  die  deutschen  Stamme  hinter 
sich  her  ziehend,  hat  Preussen  das  Erbe  seiner  Vater,  die 
Grossmachtstellung   in  der  Welt  neu    erworben   und   unver- 


874  COSMOPOLIS. 

welkliche  Lorbeeren  den  ruhmvoUen  Traditionen  seiner  Ge- 
schichte  hinzugefugt.  Unermesslich  ist  dcr  Segen,  den  die 
folgenden  Generationen,  den  die  ganze  deutsche  Nation  davon 
gehabt  hat.  Der  Staat  Friedrichs  des  Grossen,  die  Vormacht 
des  evangelischen  Deutschlands,  hat.sich  dadurch  erst  recht 
den  Anspruch  erworben,  der  Fiihrer  zur  deutschen  Einheit  zu 
werden.  Also,  dass  heutedie  Ruhmestaten,  welche  in  deutschen 
Burgerkriegen  Preussens  Macht  begrundet  haben,  wie  ein 
Gcmeingut  des  ganzen  Deutschlands  betrachtet  werden,  und 
dass  die  Siege  von  Warschau  und  Rossbach,  ja  die  von  Leipzig 
und  Koniggratz  in  der  nationalen  Erinnerung  fast  schon 
dieselbe  Stelle  einnehmen  wie  die  Tage  von  Worth  und  von 
Sedan. 

Max  Lenz. 


''  ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES;' 

ZWEI  OFKENK  SCHKEIBEN  AN  DIE  REDACTION  DER  COSMOPOLIS. 


HOCHGEEHRTER   HERR   REDACTEUR  ! 

Was  ich  iiber  die  Aufsatze  von  Liebknecht  und  Adolph 
Wagner  meine  ? 

Der  Inhalt  der  Liebknechtschen  Ausfuhrungen  ist  ungefahr 
dieser  :  "  Mit  einer  Beschreibung  des  Zukunftsstaats  kann  ich 
nicht  aufvvarten.  Bestenfalls  wiirde  ich  einen  Zukuniisroman 
liefern.  So  will  ich  fern  von  Wolkenkukuksheim  auf  der  Erde 
bleiben.  Wir  haben  jelzt  die  Diktatur  des  Kapitalismus.  Der 
Sozialismus  ist  das  Ende  der  Diktatur  in  jeglicher  Gestalt.  In 
der  sozialistischen  Gesellschaft  werden  alle  gleiches  Recht  und 
gleichc  Macht  haben, —  Frauen  ebenso  wie  ^Manner.  Der 
Widerstreit  der  Interessen  wird  verschwinden.  Die  Bahn  des 
Lasters  und  Verbrechens  wird  abgesperrt  sein.  Zwang  und 
Zwangsmittel  sind  dann  unbekannt.  Der  Mensch  ist  arbeits- 
lustig.  Es  bedarf  nur  eines  Arbeitsamtes,  um  den  Arbeitstrieb 
zu  regeln,  zugleich  die  producirten  Giiter  auf  die  Einzelnen  zu 
verteilen.  Ein  Erziehungsamt  dient  der  Erziehung  aller  zur 
hochsten  Bildung.  Klassen,  Klassenherrschaft,  Klassenkampf 
werden  verschwinden.  Kasernen,  Zuchthauser, —  vor  allem 
auch  Kirchen —  wird  es  nicht  mehr  geben.  Der  soziale  Friede 
wird  auf  Erden  gekommen  sein." 

Nach  Liebknechts  Ansicht  ist  solche  Phantasie  kein  Zu- 
kunftsroman  und  keine  Geschichte  aus  Wolkenkukuksheim, 
vielmehr  eine  "  Schilderung  der  gegenwartigen  Gesellschaft,  die 
aus  dem  Kapitalismus  in  den  Sozialismus  hineinwachst."  Er 
ist  der  Meinung,  dass  wir  der  Verwirklichung  seiner  Traum- 
bilder  schon  nahe  stehen.  "Das  zwanzigste  Jahrhundert 
gehort  der  Losung  der  sozialen  Frage  "  (d.  h.  der  Erzeugung 


876  COSMOPOLIS. 

der  sozialistischen  Gesellschaft).  Wie  die  Sache  sich  wol 
machen  wird  ?  Ganz  nach  Karl  Marx.  Die  Konzentration  der 
Betriebe  (auch  in  der  Landwirtschaft !)  wird  sich  unausgesetzt 
steigern.  Zuletzt  "  stehen  nur  noch  wenige  Personen  zwischen 
der  kapitalistischen  und  der  sozialistischen  Gesellschaft,"  d.  h 
es  gibt  nur  noch  wenige  Riesenunternehmungen,  die  alles 
wirtschaftlich  (und  wol  auch  politisch)  beherrschen.  Dann 
ist  die  Sache  einfach.  Man  spricht  mit  diesen  paar  Leuten  und 
"  erledigt  zur  gegebenen  Zeit  die  Sache  in  zwei  Minutcn  freund- 
schaftlicher  Unterhaltung  unter  vier  Augen."  Der  kunftige 
Gross-Krupp  wird  also  den  guten  Augen  des  kunftigen  Lieb- 
knecht  zu  Liebe  (wahrscheinlich  **  freiwillig ")  auf  all  seine 
Macht  und  Herrlichkeit  zu  Gunsten  des  Zukunftsstaats 
verzichten.  Dann  ist  die  sozialistische  Gesellschaft  da,  das 
Eigentum  an  den  Produktionsmitteln  ist  auf  die  Gesamtheit 
iibertragen,  und  die  Menschen  verwandeln  sich  gleichzeitig  in 
Engel,  die  freiwillig  die  ihnen  zugewiesenen  Arbeiten  verrichten 
und  mit  den  vom  "  Arbeitsamt "  ihnen  zugewiesenen  Gutem 
innig  zufrieden  sind. 

Wie  wenig  wert  diese  Liebknechtschen  Zukunftsgedanken 
sind,  hat  Adolph  Wagner  hinlanglich  klargelegt.  Es  bedarf 
keines  Wortes  dariiber.  Kein  einziges  der  Probleme,  welchc 
die  wirkliche  Welt  darbietet,  wird  auch  nur  angefasst.  Vom 
Wesen  der  Bildung  (die  mit  naturwissenschaftlichen  Kennt- 
nissen  gleichgesetzt  wird),  von  der  Bedeutung  des  Konigtums, 
von  dem  Wert  der  religiosen  Krafte  fur  das  Volksleben,  uber- 
haupt  von  dem  wirklichen  Menschen,  wie  er  um  uns  leibt  und 
lebt,  scheint  Liebknecht  niemals  etwas  gehort  oder  gesehen  zu 
haben.  Ueberhaupt  macht  der  Aufsatz  den  Eindruck,  als  ob 
er  vor  etwa  fiinfzig  Jahren  geschrieben  worden  ware.  Was  an 
wirklichen  Gedanken  darin  ist,  stammt  von  Karl  Marx.  Nur 
dass  die  stetige  "  Verelendung "  der  arbeitenden  Klasse  fehlt, 
und  demgemass  der  Gedanke  der  Revolution  hinter  dem  der 
*•  Evolution  "  fast  vollig  verschwindet.  Vieles  in  dem  Aufsatz 
scheint  vor  noch  viel  langerer  Zeit,  etwa  vor  hundertund- 
fiinfzig  Jahren,  geschrieben  zu  sein.  Mit  Staunen  blickt  man 
heute  in  unserm  realistischen  Zeitalter  auf  den  abstrakten 
Menschen  Liebknechts,  den  nur  die  Arbeitslust  und  Bildungs- 
lust  beseelt. 


ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES.  877 

Trotz  alledem  ist  der  Aufsatz  Liebknechts  von  Interesse. 
Wir  sehen,  dass  ein  Mann,  der  doch  jedenfalls  gescheut  ist,  an 
die  kommende  sozialistische  Gesellschaft  glaubt.  Man  darf 
den  Aufsatz  als  einen  Beweis  dafur  betrachten,  dass  der  Glaube 
an  die  sozialistische  Gesellschaft  (an  den  "  Zukunftsstaat ") 
noch  immer  von  weiten  Kreisen  der  sozialdemokratischen 
Menge  geteilt  wird  und  dass  dieser  Glaube  eine  Quelle  der 
Kraft  fiir  die  soziademokratische  Bewegung  bedeutet. 

Diese  Tatsache  gibt  zu  denken.     Es  bedarf  nur  eines  gerin- 
gen  Maasses  geistiger  Anstrengung,  um  zu  erkennen,  dass  es 
niemals  solche  Menschen  geben  wird,  die  zu  "  Freiwilligen  " 
des  Liebknechtschen    Arbeitsstaates    passen,  die   bereit  sind, 
sich  die  Art  ihrer  Arbeit  und  zugleich  den  Ertrag  ihrer  Arbeit 
von  einem  Arbeitsamte  vorschreiben  zu  lassen.     Mit  anderen 
Worten  :    es   bedarf   nur  eines  geringen    Nachdenkens,    um 
einzusehen,  dass  dieser  sozialistische  Zukunftsstaat  unmoglich 
ist.     So  liegt  denn  selbstverstandlich  die  Wurzel   der  sozial- 
demokratischen Bewegung  nicht  in  dieser  sozialistischenTheo- 
rie.    Diese  Lehre  entbehrt  als  solche  durchaus  der  werbenden 
Kraft,  zumal  wenn   sie   (wie  auch   bei  Liebknecht)  mit  dem 
Zugestandnis  sich  verbindet,  dass  ihre  Verwirklichung  nicht 
beliebig  mit  einem  Mai,  sondern  nur  ganz  allmahlich  und  nach 
und  nach  moglich  ist.     Die  Wurzel  der  Sozialdemokratie  und 
ihrer  Macht  liegt,  wie  sattsam  bereits  bekannt  ist,  ganz  allein  in 
der  Unzufriedenheit  der  Arbeiterschaft  mit  ihrer  ausseren  Lage. 
So  folgt  sie  den  sozialdemokratischen  Fiihrern,  die  den  Leuten 
Besserung  ihrer   Lage    versprechen    und    ihnen    dabei    den 
sozialistischen  Staat  vormalen.    Alle  Bekampfung  mit  wissen- 
schaftlichen,  logischen   Griinden   ist   fruchtlos.     Der   Glaube 
an  den  Zukunftsstaat  hat  den  Hass  gegen  den  Gegenwarts- 
staat  zur  alleinigen  Wurzel  und  Nahrungsquelle.    Diesen  Hass 
gilt  es  zu  iiberwinden.     Nicht  dadurch,  dass  die  Unzufrieden- 
heit der  Massen  durch  Kampfmaassregeln  seitens  des  Staates 
gesteigert,  sondern   umgekehrt  dadurch,  dass  sie  durch  Ge- 
wahrung  der  vollen  biirgerlichen  Freiheit  und  Gleichberechti- 
gung  beseitigt  wird. 

Das  Bild  vom  sozialistischen  Staat  ist  ein  Traumbild,  ein 
Traumbild  des  hungernden  Magens.     Daher  die  stait  -awi  ^-as* 
Mater ielle  gerichteten   Ziige   des  soziaWstiscVven  \di^'a\'s».    ^^^ 


878  COSMOPOLIS. 

Lehre  vona  sozialistischen  Staat  der  Zukunft  ist  cin  alkoho- 
lisches  Reizmittel,  im  hungernden  Zustande  eingenommen. 
Die  Arbeiterschaft  ist  dadurch  erregt,  gereizt,  geweckt  worden. 
Jetzt  gilt  es,  ihr  gesunde  Kost  und  wahrhaft  starkende  Nahning 
zu  gewahren.  Das  kann  allein  dadurch  geschehen,  dass  ihr 
die  Freiheitsrechte  des  biirgerlichen  Staats  in  gleichem  Maasse 
wie  den  anderen  zugemessen  werden. 

Du  musst  die  rechte  Freiheit  geben,  wenn  du  den  Rausch 
des  falschen  Freiheitswahnes  stillen  willst. 

Leipzig,  im  Februar  1898.  Rudolph  Sohm. 


Sehr  geehrtbr  Herr  ! 

Die  Auseinandersetzung,  zwischen  meinem  Freunde  und 
Parteigenossen  W.  Liebknecht  und  Professor  Adolph  Wagner 
iiber  die  Frage  der  zukiinftigen  Gesellschaft  scheint  mir 
zunachst  an  dena  Fehler  zu  leiden,  dass  sie  keine  Debatte  war. 
Liebknechts  Ausfuhrungen  sind  hauptsachlich  dem  Nachweise 
gewidmet,  dass  jeder  Versuch,  Einrichtungei}  der  oder  einer 
zukiinftigen  Gesellschaftsordnunggenauerzu  skizziren,  notwcn- 
digerweise  zum  Zukunftsroma/i,  d.  h.  zur  Utopie  fuhre.  Nur 
ganz  beilaufig  werden  einige  Andeutungen  eingeflochten,  wie 
er  sich  die  Regelung  dieser  oder  jener  Angelegenheit  in  einer 
sozialistischen  Gesellschaft  denkt  und  einige  landlaufige  Ein- 
wande  gegen  den  Sozialismus  widerlegt.  Die  Gedankenreihe 
dagegen,  die  seinen  Ausfuhrungen  als  theoretischer  Unterbau 
zu  Grunde  liegt,  die  Gesellschaftskritik,  aus  der  der  modeme 
Sozialismus  den  Kompass  seines  Wirkens  und  Strebens 
gewinnt,  lasst  Liebknecht  mit  fluchtigem  Hinweis  als  bekannt 
bei  Seite.  Das  Schwergewicht  seiner  Ausfuhrungen  liegt  in 
dem  Gedanken,  dass  die  moderne  Entwicklung  keine  Sprunge, 
wie  vom  kapitalistischen  zum  sozialistischen  Gesellschaftsystem, 
kennt,  sondern  dass,  von  der  etwa  notwendigen  Beseitigung  un- 
vernunftigen  Widerstandes  abgesehen,  ein  organisches  Heraus« 
wachsen  der  sozialistischen  aus  der  gegebenen  Gesellschaft 
zu  erwarten  ist,  wobei  der  Klassenkampf  zwischen  Besitzenden 
und  Besitzlosen  d\e  \xe\>aetvd^  Yjc-aixXiMRl.    Ptofessor  Wagner 


ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES.  879 

seinerseits  dagegen  verbindet  mit  der  Kritik  der  Idee  eines 
vollig  sozialistischen  Staatswesens  die  Kritik  eines  grossen  Teils 
des  ganzen  Gedankeninhalts  des  modernen  Sozialismus.  Das 
war  sein  gutes  Recht,  aber  wir  erhalten  so  eine  nur  einseitig 
gefiihrte  Discussion.  Wagner  kritisirt  allerhand,  was  Lieb- 
knecht  entweder  garnicht  behandelt  oder  nur  ganz  nebenbei 
beruhrt  hatte.  Auf  diese  Weise  kommt  Liebknecht  in  der 
Kontroverse  entschieden  zu  kurz.  DasThema  ist  zu  allgemein 
und  weit,  um  an  sich  zur  Behandlung  der  gleichen  Probleme 
zu  veranlassen,  die  mit  ihm  im  Zusammenhang  stehen. 

Ich  kann  mich  mit  dem  Kern  von  Liebknechts  Ausfuhrungen 
hinsichtlich  des  Zukunftstaats  nur  einverstanden  erklaren  ;  wie 
er  halte  ich  alle  Spekulation  iiber  Einzelheiten  zukunftiger 
Gesellschaften  fur  verfehlt.  Nur  die  auf  Untersuchung  der 
gegebenen  Grundlagen  des  Gesellschaftslebens  und  ihrer 
Entwicklungsgesetze  gestiitzte  Betrachtung  kann  dem 
Streben  nach  besserer  Organisation  der  Gesellschaft  feste 
Anhaltspunkte  liefern. 

Auch  Professor  Wagner  ist  soweit  mit  Liebknecht  einig. 
Das  heisst,  er  verwirft  den  Gedanken,  als  ob  zur  theoretischen 
Begrundung  des  Sozialismus  ein  vollig  ausgearbeitetes  System 
einer  sozialistischen  Gesellschaftsordnung  erfordert  sei.  Er 
spricht  die  Sozialdemokratie  von  der  Verpflichtung,  ein  solches 
System  beizubringen,  frei.  Um  so  grosseres  Gewicht  legt  er 
dafur  auf  die  sozialistische  Geschichtsphilosophie,  und  um  so 
scharfer  geht  er  mit  den  aus  ihr  abgeleiteten  Voraussetzungen 
des  modernen  Sozialismus  ins  Gericht.  Ganz  natiirlich.  Der 
Utopist,  der  Ideologe,  der  ein  ausspintisirtes,  vollkommenes 
Gesellschaftssystem  erstrebt,  schopft  aus  diesem  die  Berechti- 
gung  seines  Handelns,  steht  und  fallt  mit  ihm.  Der  Sozialist, 
der  solch  ein  System  fiir  iiberflussig  oder  selbst  irrefiihrend 
erklart,  steht  und  fallt  als  Gesellschaftsreformer  mit  theoreti- 
schen Voraussetzungen,  aus  denen  er  die  Notwendigkeit  und 
Zweckmassigkeit  der  verfochtenen  Umgestaltung  herleitet. 
Wenn  also  Professor  Wagner  z.  B.  die  Frage  aufvvirft,  inwieweit 
der  Sozialismus  berechtigt  ist,  eine  so  tiefgehende  Veranderung 
der  menschlichen  Psyche  vorauszusetzen,  wie  sie  der  Aufbau 
eines  vollig  sozialistisch  oder  kommunistisch  geordneten 
Gemeinwesens  erfordert,  so  ist  diese  Frage  nicht  von  vorn- 


88o  COSMOPOLIS. 

herein  mit  dem  Hinweis  auf  die  Entwicklung,  die  das  alles 
ichon  machen  werde,  oder  dass  die  Oekonomie  die  Moral 
bestimme,  abzuweisen.  Das  ware  wenigstens  nicht  sehr 
wissenschaftlich,  wiirde  den  Rechtsanspruch,  den  der  Sozialis- 
mus  aus  seiner  Wissenschaftlichkeit  herleitet,  erheblich 
reduciren.  Unzweifelhaft  ist  die  psychische  Natur  dcr 
Menschen  sehr  entwicklungsfahig.  Aber  neben  ihren,  den 
Einflussen  von  Erziehung  und  Umgebung  unterworfenen 
Eigenschaften  hat  sie  auch  solche,  die  den  Einwirkungen  von 
Jahrtausenden  Kultur  spotten,  und  auf  lange  hinaus  wird  noch 
mit  dem  Wechselspiel  von  Neigung,  Trieb,  Laune  auf  dcr 
einen  und  Pflicht  auf  der  anderen  Seite  gerechnet  werden 
miissen.  Fiirdie  Entwicklung  der  Gesellschaft  zum  Sozialismus 
handelt  es  sich  eben  nicht  darum,  welcher  Leistungen  das 
Pflichtbewusstsein  Einzelner  oder  selbst  ganzer  Volksteile 
unter  aussergewohnlichen  Verhaltnissen  fahig  ist, — wir  wissen, 
dass  es  da  bis  zur  grossten  Selbstaufopferung  getrieben  werden 
kann — sondern  was  man  unter  alltaglichen  Verhaltnissen  vom 
grossen  Durchschnitt  in  dieser  Hinsicht  erwarten  kann«  Wer 
nicht  an  Wunder  glaubt,  wird  sofort  erkennen,  dass  hier  ein 
Problem,  oder  vielleicht  richtiger :  die  Quelle  einer  ganzen 
Reihe  von  Problemen  fiir  die  sozialistische  Fortentwicklung 
der  Gesellschaft  gegeben  ist. 

Professor  Wagner  ist  indes  im  Irrtum,  wenn  er  meint,  dass 
sozialistischerseits  diesen  Problemen  keine  Beachtung  ge- 
schenkt  wird.  Ohne  auf  Widerspruch  in  der  Sozialdemokratie 
zu  stossen,  hat  Schreiber  dieser  Zeilen  im  vorigen  Jahre  in 
dem  der  Theorie  gewidmeten  Organ  der  deutschen  Sozial- 
demokratie dargelegt,  es  sei  "der  Gedanke  durchaus  ak 
utopistisch  abzuweisen,  als  ob  eine  sozialistische  Umw^alzung 
den  Staat  in  eine  automatische  Versorgungsanstalt  umwandeln 
konne."  Ferner :  "  die  Zahl  der  Menschen,  um  die  es  sich  da 
handelt,  die  Grosse  des  Raumgebietes,  das  sie  einnehmen,  die 
wachsende  Zahl  der  Zweige,  in  die  die  Produktion  sich  diffe- 
renzirt,  und  die  grosse  Zahl,  Vielfaltigkeit  und  Ausdehnung 
der  Produktionseinheiten  —  all  das  macht  eine  automatische 
Harmonisirung  aller  Individualinteressen  zu  einem  uberall 
und  in  jeder  Hinsicht  sich  gleichmassig  bewahrenden 
Gemeininteresse  zu  einer  grossen  Unwahrscheinlichkeit  .  .  ." 


ZUKUNFTSSTAATLICHES.  88l 

Da  nun  die  Weiterentwicklung  der  Produktion  ganz  ersicht- 
lich  nicht  in  Aufhebung  der  differenzirenden  Arbeit  bestehen 
kann,  sondern  nur  in  neuer  Zusammenfassung  auf  Grundlage 
der  ausgebildeten  DifFerenzirung  —  auf  die  Personen  iiber- 
tragen,  nicht  in  Aufhebung,  sondern  in  Erganzung  der  beruf- 
lichen  Arbeitsteilung,  so  kann  der  Verwaltungskorper  der 
Gesellschaft  der  absehbaren  Zukunft  sich  vom  gegenwartigen 
Staat  nur  dem  Grade  nach  tinterscheiden.  Und  nur  dem  Grade 
nach  wird  denn  auch  in  absehbarer  Zeit  an  der  wirtschaftlichcn 
Selbstveranhvortlichkeii  der  Arbeitsfahigen  geandert  werden 
konnen.  .  .  .  Der  Sozialismus  kann  lediglich  (dieser  Selbst- 
verantvvortlichkeit)  ihre  Erfiillung  erieichtern."  (Probleme  des 
Sozialismus,  "Neue  Zeit,"  Jahrgang  1896/97.) 

Es  bedarf  keiner  erganzenden  Worte,  um  erkennen  zu  lassen, 
dass  in  diesen  Satzen  auch  die  Antwort  auf  verschiedene 
andere  Fragen  eingeschlossen  ist,  die  Professor  Wagner 
aufwirft.  Zwar  nicht  die  Antwort :  "  Dies  wird  so  und  dies 
wird  so  geregelt  werden,  sondern  das  Eingestandnis :  hier  liegt 
ein  Problem  vor,  beziiglich  dessen  nur  die  Zukunft  wird 
entscheiden  konnen,  in  wie  weit  es  vollig  im  Sinne  des 
Sozialismus,  d.  h.  der  Freiwilligkeit  und  Unentgeltlichkeit, 
wird  gelost  werden  konnen." 

Wie  weit  die  angefiihrten  und  ahnlichen  Satze  von  den 
sozialistischen  Lesern  der  "  Neuen  Zeit "  gebilligt  wurden, 
entzieht  sich  meiner  Beurteilung.  Jedenfalls  aber  kann  so 
viel  gesagt  werden,  dass  die  Zahl  derjenigen  Sozialisten  nur 
gering  ist,  die  auf  einen  unvermittelten,  nur  eine  kurze  Spanne 
Zeit  erfordernden  Uebergang  zum  vollendeten  sozialistischen 
Gesellschaftszustand  rechnen.  Bei  alledem  sind  freilich  noch 
grosse  Meinungsverschiedenheiten  dariiber  vorhanden,  wieviel 
der  mit  Wucht  vertretene  zielbewusste  Wille,  der  Klassenkampf 
in  seinen  verschiedenen  Formen,  gegebenenfalls  iiber  die 
passiven  Faktoren  des  Gesellschaftslebens  vermag. 

Fur  das  zur  Debatte  gestellte  Thema  ist  das  indes  sekundar, 
wenn  auch  nicht  gleichgiltig.  In  erster  Linie  steht  hier  nicht 
die  Frage,  was  mit  mehr  oder  weniger  Druck  gelegentlich 
durchgesetzt,  sondern  was  mit  Aussicht  auf  Bestand  durch- 
gefiihrt  werden  kann. 

Wer  Zukunftsstaaten  aus  dem  Kopf  konstruirt,  dem  steht  die 


882  COSMOPOLIS. 

Wahl  des  Materials  dazu  frei.    Er  kann  Menschen  nach  seinem 

Ebenbild  oder  seiner  Phantasie  in  sie  hineinsetzen.     Wer  aber 

den  Phantasiesozialismus  verwirft,  der  darf   auch    in   seinen 

Berechnungen  nichts  anderes  von  den  Menschen  erwarten,  als 

was  die  Erfahrung  von  ihnen  lehrt.     In  dieser  Beziehung  nun 

kann  als  festgestellt  gelten,  dass  so  schwer  es  sich  bisher  er- 

wiesen  hat,  unter  normalen  Verhaltnissen  (d.h.  Notfalle  u.s.  w. 

ausgenommen)  die  "Leistung  regelmassiger  Arbeit  in   Produk- 

tion  und  Verwaltung  vom  blossen  Pflichtgefuhl  abhangig  zu 

machen,  das  soziale  Pflichtgefuhl  dagegen  sich    als  ziemlich 

starker  und  zuverlassiger   Faktor  erwiesen  hat,  wo  es  sich  urn 

den  Genuss  unentgeltlicher  oder  gegen  feste  Abgaben  geleis- 

teter  offentlicher  Dienste  handelte.     Dies  gibt   einen   Finger- 

zeig  dafur,  wie  sozialistische  Ref ormen  in  der  nachsten  Zukunft 

mit  dem  grossten  Erfolg   wiirden  ins  Werk  gesetzt    werden 

konnen. 

Hochachtend 

Ed.  Bernstein. 
London,  den  8.  Febmor  1898. 


POLITISCHES 
IN   DEUTSCHER  BELEUCHTUNG. 


KRETA— DIE  DEUTSCHE  SOZIALDEMOKRATIE. 

Der  russische  "  Regierungsbote "  hat  uber  die  kretensische 
Frago  eine  langere  Veroffentlichung  gebracht,  die  sich  mit  der 
fur  den  Gouverneurposten  der  Insel  in  Aussicht  genommenen 
Kandidatur  des  Prinzen  Georg  von  Griechenland  beschiiftigt  ; 
diese  Erorterung  verdient  Beachtung. 

Eine  der  entscheidenden  Stellen  dieser  offiziellen  Aeusseriing 
lautet  folgendermassen  : 

Bei  scineni  Antrage  —  us  ist  voiu  St.  Petersburger  Kabinett  die  Rede — 
deii  Frinzen  Georg  fur  diesen  Posten  zu  ernennen,  hatte  Russland  ini 
Auge,  die  Unversehrtlieit  des  otiomanischen  ReichessioXxGi'  zu  stellen,  da  seitens 
des  Prinzen  vorher  die  Einwilligung  erfolgt  war,  die  Suzeranitatsrechte  des 
Sultans  anzuerkennen  und  Frieden  im  Oriente  zu  bewahren,  wozu  es 
notwendig  war,  an  die  Spitzc  der  Verwaltung  Kretab  eine  Person  zu  stellen, 
welche  dort  vollige  Ruhe  einfuliren  und  mit  der  notigen  Autoritat  die 
Gewalt  des  General-Gouverncurs  aufrechterlialten  konnte,  indcm  cr  sowol 
die  christliche  wie  die  muselmanische  Bevolkerung  der  Insel  schiltzt. 
Solches  sind  die  cinzigen  Ziele  der  von  Russland  uneigcnniitzig  vorge- 
schlagenen  Lusung  der  kretensischen  Frage,  welche  cin  fflr  alle  Mai  den 
Miichten  jeden  Vorwand  nimmt  zur  Einmischung,  welche  durch  pcriodisch 
entstehende  blutige  Ereignisse  auf  der  Insel  hervorgerufen  wild. 

Eines  an  dieser  Darstellung  muss  iiberraschen ;  wenn 
Russland  der  Ansicht  war,  dass  ein  griechischer  Prinz  als 
General-Gouverneur  Kretas  alien  zu  stellenden  Anforderungen 
genijgen  wiirde,  so  ist  die  Politik,  die  von  Petersburg  aus  bis 
zum  griechisch-tiirkischen  Kriege  verfolgt  worden  ist,  auf  den 
ersten  Blick  schwer  zu  verstehen.  Fiir  die  Kandidatur  eines 
griechischen  Prinzen  ware  auch  damals  England  und   Frank- 

VOL.  IX.— NO.  XXVI 1.  m 


884  cosMOi»oLls. 

rcich  gewiss  zu  gewinnen  gewesen  ;  und  ein  solcher  Ausgang 
hatte  Griechenland  sicher  veranlasst,  sich  nicht  in  den  Kampf 
zu  sturzen,  und  in  der  Aussicht,  diplomatisch  zu  einem  Erfolg 
zu  gelangen,  hatte  man  in  Athen  gewiss  auf  die  kriegerischen 
Gefahren  gern  verzichtet.  Nur  die  Unmoglichkeit,  irgendein 
Zugestandnis  zu  erreichen,  trieb  Griechenland  zum  Zusammen- 
stoss  mit  dcr  Turkei.  Fiir  diese  Wendung  tragi  gerade  auch 
Kussland  die  Vertintwortung,  und  nunmehr  kotnmt  von  Russ- 
land  cin  Vorschlag,  der  die  Demiitigung  Griechenlands  voraus- 
sichtlich  hatte  abwenden  kdnnen,  wenn  er  vor  clem  Ausbnich 
der  turkisch-griechischen  Feindseligkeiten  geixiacht  worden 
ware. 

Auf  den  ersten  Blick  erscheint  die  PoUtik  Russia  nds  als  ein 
vollstiindiger  Widerspruch  in  sich  selbst,  und  das  often- 
sichtliche  Auftauchen  dieses  Widerspruches  fuhrte  zu  der 
Aiinahme,  dass  die  Politik  vor  dem  Ausbruch  des  griechisch- 
tiirkischen  Krieges  von  der  russischen  Diplomatic  in  Rucksicht 
:uif  die  Staalsraison  verfolgt  worden  ist,  wahrend  die  Politik 
der  neuesten  Zeit  nicht  als  eine  Politik  der  russischen 
StaatMaisoii,  sondern  als  eine  Politik  des gef ulilvollcn  Herzens, 
als  cine  lujinilicupoliiik  zu  betrachten  sei,  bei  der  vor  alleni 
Krauen  initgewirkt  habeii.  Man  erinnerte  sich  dabei,  das> 
Priiiz  Georg,  der  Kandidal,  zugleich  der  I^bensretter  des 
jetzigen  Zarcn  gewesen  sein  soil,  als  ein  fanatischer  Japaner 
den  damaligen  russischen  Thronfolger  bei  seiner  Weltreise  ira 
fernen  Osten  meuchlings  angefallen  hatte. 

Ob  derartige  Motive  sowie  FamiUenbeziehungen  Ixfi  dem 
russischen  Vorschlag  eine  RoUe  gespielt  haben,  kann  erklar- 
licherweise  nicht  erwiesen  werden  ;  aber  es  scheint  nicht  gaiu 
richtig,  den  russischen  Antrag  allein  aus  solchen  j^rsonlichen 
Erwagungen  hervorgegangen  zu  betrachten.  Auch  die 
russische  Politik  kann  hcute  sich  zu  den  griechischen 
Anspriichcn  wesentlich  anders  stellen,  als  zur  Zeit  vor  dem 
griechisch-tiirkischen  Kriege,  und  das  gerade  aus  dem  Grunde, 
weil  Griechenland  inzwischen  eine  so  schvvere  Niederlage 
erlitten  hat. 

In  St.  Petersburg  rechnete  man  bis  zum  Kriege  mit  der 
Tatsache,  dass  Griechenland  erhebliche  Anspruche  auch  auf 
lurkischc  Gebiete  des  europaischen  Festlandes  mache  :    und 


POLltlSCrtES   IN    DEUTSCHER    HELEUCrtTlJNG.  885 

zwar gingen die  griechischen  Wiinschebis  nach  Konstantinopel 
und  die  Phantasie  der  Griechen  beschaftigte  sich  mit  der 
Errichtung  eines  griechischen  Kaiserreiches,  dessen  Hauptstadt 
das  alte  Byzanz,  das  heutige  Konstantinopel,  sein  soUte.  Seiche 
Phantiisien  erschienen  Russland  unstatthaft. 

Anspruche  dieser  Art  mussten  Griechenland  in  erbitterten 
Gegensatz  zu  alien  anderen  ehrgeizigen  christlichen  Balkan- 
volkern  bringen  ;  Anspruche  dieser  Art  mussten  Griechenland 
aber  auch  in  Gegensatz  zu  Russland  setzen,  wo  man  der 
Ansicht  ist,  dass  Konstantinopel  neben  Petersburg  und  Moskau 
als  dritte  Hauptstadt  des  Zarenreiches  wol  ein  Mai  in  Betracht 
kommen  konnte.  Der  Gegensatz  zu  den  Balkanvolkern  barg 
die  Gefahr,  dass  der  kleine  griechische  Staat  plotzlich  ein  Mai 
die  gesamte  orientalische  Frage  auf  die  Tagesordnung  setzen 
konnte,  und  zwar  auch  zu  einer  Zeit,  wenn  es  den  Gross- 
machten  und  wenn  es  Russland  nicht  passte.  Eine  solclie 
Eigenwilligkeit  erschien  unerlaubt,  und  noch  unerlaubter 
erschien  die  Hoffnung  auf  Konstantinopel,  die  Russland  sich 
selbst  vorbehielt. 

Es  hatte  also  ein  sehr  reales  Interesse  fiir  Russland,  in 
Hinsicht  auf  solche  lockenden  und  gefahrvollen  politischen 
Zukunftsbilder  eine  Kur  mit  Griechenland  vorzunehmen. 
Diese  Kur  besorgte  die  Turkei  zu  eigenem  turkischen 
Frommen — woran  Russland  weniger  lag — aber  auch  zum 
Nutzen  des  Zarenreiches.  Griechenland  wurde  so  griindlich 
besiegt,  dass  in  Athen  von  einer  Politik  grossen  Stils  auf  dem 
Festlande  und  von  Bestrebungen,  die  sich  nach  Konstantinopel 
erstreckten,  nicht  mehr  die  Rede  sein  konnte.  Diese  auch  fur 
Russland  vorhandene  Unbequemlichkeit  hatte  die  Turkei  aus 
der  Welt  geschafft,  und  diese  gesamte  Politik,  die  dem  Zaren- 
reieh  niitzlich  war,  kostete  St.  Petersburg  so  gut  wie  nichts 
Hochstens  hatte  man  nunmehr  mit  einem  etwas  gesteigerten 
turkischen  Selbstgefiihl  zu  rechnen.  Aber  man  kannte  russi- 
scherseits  die  Klugheit  des  Sultans  zu  gut,  um  zu  wissen,  dass 
dieser  Mann  fiir  seine  Person  den  Maassstab  fiir  den  Wert 
der  neuen  turkischen  kriegerischen  Erfolge  nicht  verlieren 
vviirde. 

Heute — das  muss  man  anerkennen — befindet  sich  Russland 
einer  ganzlich  veranderten  Sachlage  gegeniiber.     Das  gede- 


884  cosMOl»oLlS. 

rcich  gewiss  zu  gewinnen  gewesen  ;  und  ein  solcher  Ausgang 
hatte  Griechenland  sicher  veranlasst,  sich  nicht  in  den  Kampf 
zu  sturzen,  und  in  der  Aussicht,  diplomatisch  zu  einem  Erfolg 
zu  gelangen,  hatte  man  in  Athen  gewiss  auf  die  kriegerischcn 
Gefahren  gern  verzichtet.  Nur  die  Unmoglichkeit,  irgendein 
Zugestandnis  zu  erreichen,  trieb  Griechenland  zum  Zusammen- 
stoss  mil  der  Tiirkei.  Fur  diese  Wendung  tragi  gerade  audi 
Russland  die  Vertintwortung,  und  nunmehr  kommt  von  Russ- 
land  cin  Vorschlag,  der  die  Demiitigung  Griechenlands  voraus- 
sichtlich  hatte  abwenden  konnen,  wenn  er  vor  dem  Ausbruch 
der  tlirkisch-gricchischen  Feindseligkeiten  geixiacht  worden 
ware. 

Auf  den  ersten  Blick  erscheint  die  Polittk  Russia  nds  als  ein 
vollstandiger  Widerspruch  in  sich  selbst,  und  das  offen- 
sichtliche  Auftauchen  dieses  Widerspruches  fuhrte  zu  der 
Annahme,  dass  die  Politik  vor  dem  Ausbruch  des  griechisch* 
li'irkischen  Krieges  von  der  russischen  Diplomatic  in  Rucksicht 
auf  die  Staatsraison  verfolgt  worden  ist,  wahrend  die  Politik 
der  neuesten  Zeit  nicht  als  eine  Politik  der  russischen 
Staatsraison,  sondern  als  eine  Politik  desgefuhlvoUen  Herzens, 
als  cine  luiinilicupoliiik  zu  betracbten  sei,  bei  der  vor  allein 
l*'rauen  mit^ewirkt  haben.  Man  erinnerte  sich  dabei,  das> 
Prinz  Georg,  der  Kandidat,  zugleich  der  I^bensretter  des 
jetzigen  Zarcn  gewesen  sein  soil,  als  ein  fanatischer  Japaner 
den  damaligen  russischen  Tlironfolger  bei  seiner  Weltreise  ira 
fernen  Osten  nieuchlings  angefallen  hatte. 

Ob  derartige  Motive  sowie  Familienbeziehungen  bei  dem 
russischen  Vorschlag  eine  Rolle  gespielt  haben,  kann  erklar* 
licherweise  nicht  erwiesen  werden  ;  aber  es  scheint  nicht  ganz 
rich  tig,  den  russischen  Antrag  allein  aus  solchen  [>ers6nlichen 
Erwagungen  hervorgegangen  zu  betrachten.  Auch  die 
russische  Politik  kann  hcute  sich  zu  den  griechischen 
Anspriichen  wesentlicli  anders  stellen,  als  zur  Zeit  vor  dem 
griechisch-tiirkischen  Kriege,  und  das  gerade  aus  dem  Grunde, 
weil  Griechenland  inzwischen  eine  so  schwere  Niederlage 
erlitten  hat. 

In  St.  Petersburg  rechnete  man  bis  zum  Kriege  mit  der 
Tatsache,  dass  Griechenland  erhebliche  Anspruche  auch  auf 
tiirkischc  Gebietc  des  curopaischen  Festlandes  mache  :    und 


POLltlSCrtES   IN   DEIJTSCHER    HELEUCHTCNG.  885 

zwar gingen die  griechischen  Wiinschebis  nach  Konstantinopel 
und  die  Phantasie  der  Griechen  beschaftigte  sich  mit  der 
Errichtung  eines  griechischen  Kaiserreiches,  dessen  Hauptstadt 
das  alte  Byzanz,  das  heutige  Konstantinopel,  sein  soUte.  Solche 
Phantasien  erschienen  Russland  unstatthaft. 

Anspruche  dieser  Art  mussten  Griechenland  in  erbitterten 
Gegensatz  zu  alien  anderen  ehrgeizigen  christlichen  Balkan- 
volkern  bringen  ;  Anspruche  dieser  Art  mussten  Griechenland 
aber  auch  in  Gegensatz  zu  Russland  setzen,  wo  man  der 
Ansicht  ist,  dass  Konstantinopel  neben  Petersburg  und  Moskau 
als  dritte  Hauptstadt  des  Zarenreiches  wol  ein  Mai  in  Betracht 
kommen  konnte.  Der  Gegensatz  zu  den  Balkanvolkern  barg 
die  Gefahr,  dass  der  kleine  griechische  Staat  plotzlich  ein  Mai 
die  gesamte  orientalische  Frage  auf  die  Tagesordnung  setzen 
konnte,  und  zwar  auch  zu  einer  Zeit,  wenn  es  den  Gross- 
machten  und  wenn  es  Russland  nicht  piisste.  Eine  solche 
Eigenwilligkeit  erschien  unerlaubt,  und  noch  unerlaubter 
erschien  die  Hoffnung  auf  Konstantinopel,  die  Russland  sich 
selbst  vorbehielt. 

Es  hatte  also  ein  sehr  reales  Interesse  fiir  Russland,  in 
Hinsicht  auf  solche  lockenden  und  gefahrvollen  politischen 
Zukunftsbilder  eine  Kur  mit  Griechenland  vorzunehmen. 
Diese  Kur  besorgte  die  Turkei  zu  eigenem  turkischen 
Frommen — woran  Russland  weniger  lag — aber  auch  zum 
Nutzen  des  Zarenreiches.  Griechenland  wurde  so  griindlich 
besiegt,  dass  in  Athen  von  einer  Politik  grossen  Stils  auf  dem 
Festlande  und  von  Bestrebungen,  die  sich  nach  Konstantinopel 
erstreckten,  nicht  mehr  die  Rede  sein  konnte.  Diese  auch  fiir 
Russland  vorhandene  Unbequemlichkeit  hatte  die  Turkei  aus 
der  Welt  geschafft,  und  diese  gesamte  Politik,  die  dem  Zaren- 
reieh  nutzlich  war,  kostete  St.  Petersburg  so  gut  wie  nichts 
Hochstens  hatte  man  nunmehr  mit  einem  etwas  gesteigerten 
turkischen  Selbstgefiihl  zu  rechnen.  Aber  man  kannte  russi- 
scherseits  die  Klugheit  des  Sultans  zu  gut,  um  zu  wissen,  dass 
dieser  Mann  fur  seine  Person  den  Maassstab  fiir  den  Wert 
der  neuen  tiirkischen  kriegerischen  Erfolge  nicht  verlieren 
wiirde. 

Heute — das  muss  man  anerkennen — befindet  sich  Russland 
einer  ganzlich  verandcrten  Sachlage  gegeniiber.     Das  gede- 


886  COSMOPOLlS. 

mutigte  Griechcnland  ist  Russland  ganzlich  ungefahrlich. 
Und  dieses  schwache,  in  seinen  Begierden  gezahmte,  von  den 
Machten  abhangige  Gricchenland  fur  Russland  wieder  zu 
gevvinnen,  ist  sogar  fiir  die  St.  Petersburger  Diplomatie 
zweckmassig  ;  dies  Ziel  wurde  erreicht  durch  die  Befurwortung 
der  Kandidatur  des  Prinzen  Georg. 

Die  Kandidatur  wurde  dann  aber  auch  ebeiiso  schnell  wieder 
fallen  gelassen.     Es  heisst  im  russischen  "  Regieriingsboten  " : 

Die  von  Fraukrcich,  England  unci  Italicn  niil  Sympathic  aufgcnomnieuc 
Kandidatur  des  Prinzen  begcgnete  jedoch  einem  Widerstande,  wie  scilens 
Deutschlands,  Oesterreich-Ungarns,  so  auch  seitcns  des  Sultans,  welcher, 
wie  friihcr,  auf  der  Krnennung  eines  seiner  Untertanen  zum  Gcneral- 
(iouvcrneur  von  Kreta  bestand...  Nachdem  Russland  sowol  deni  Sultan 
wie  auch  den  Grossmiichten  offen  seine  Anschauung  hinsichtlich  des 
.s^egenwartigen  Standes  der  kretensisclicn  Fragc  ausgesprochen  hat. 
besteht  es  durchaus  niclit  aut  der  von  ihni  vorgcschlagencii  Losung. 

Dass  die  russische  Diplomatie  so  schnell  von  ihrem 
Vorschlag  zurucktrat,  entspricht  wiederum  vollkommen  den 
Anforderungen  der  internationalen  Lage  ;  ob  dieses  Zuruck- 
treten  den  Wunschen,  die  am  russischen  Hofe  verfolgt  werden 
entspricht,  ist  eine  andere  Frage. 

Man  muss  Eines  ins  Auge  fassen. 

Blieb  Russland  bei  seinem  Vorschlag  fest  stehen,  so 
bestand  nicht  der  geringste  Zweifel,  dass  es  auch  moglich 
ijewesen  ware,  den  Vorschlag  durchzufuhren. 

Von  einem  Widerstande  Deutschlands  zu  reden,  wie  es  der 
*'  Regierungsbote "  tut,  ist  uherhaupt  nicht  ganz  richtig. 
Widerstehen  bedeutet  ein  actives  Handeln ;  Deutschlands 
Haltung  ware  aber  vielmehr  vollig  passiv  geworden  ;  Deutsch- 
land  hatte  nicht  weiter  mitgemacht ;  es  hatte  abgevvartet ;  aber 
es  hiitte  keineswegs  durch  actives  Handeln  Widerstand 
geleistet.  Auch  Oesterreich  ware  zu  greifbarer  Opposition  gar 
nicht  im  Stande  gewesen  ;  ebenso  wenig  die  Turkei.  Die 
Motten  beider  Machte  hatten  eine  Losung  der  kfetischen  Frage, 
die  von  Russland,  Frankreich  und  England  beschlossen  und 
von  Italien  nicht  missbilligt  war,  unmoglich  verhindern  konnen. 
Wenn  also  Russland  dieser  klaren  Sachlage  zum  Trotze  ein 
Ziel,  das  sich  erreichen  liess  und  zu  dessen  Verfolgung 
England  und  F^rankreich  bestandig  anreizten,  nicht  weiter 
anstreble,  sondettv  ^xaz  (revwillig^  aufgab,  so  kann  man  von 


POLITISCHES    IN    DKUTSCHER    BELEIICHTITNG  887 

eiiier  russischen  diplomatischen  Niederlage  gewiss  nicht 
•sprechen  ;  und  in  der  Tat  braucht  an  der  Kandidatur  dcs 
Prinzen  Georg  der  russischen  Diplomatic  nicht  gar  viel  zn 
liegen,  nachdem  sie  durch  die  frenndliche  Behandkmg  dieser 
Kandidatur  das  erreicht  hatte,  worauf  es  ihr  ankommen 
nausste :  auf  die  Wiedergewinnung  der  Sympathien  der 
griechischen  Bevolkerung. 

Auch  das  gedemutigte  Griechenland  blickt  wiederum  nach 
Russland  und  nicht  allein  nach  PVankreich  und  England. 
Daran  musste  Russland  liegen,  und  das  hat  Russland 
erreicht. 

Wer  in  Kreta  Gouverneur  ist,  das  hat  fiir  Russland  nur 
eine  geringe  politische  Bedeutung.  Ob  ein  griechischer 
Prinz,  ob  sonst  wer  :  immer  bleibt  die  Insel  den  Intriguen 
Englands,  Frankreichs  und  Russlands  ausgesctzt ;  und  audi 
ein  griechischer  Prinz  wird  Russland  keine  Burgschaft  dafiir 
sein  konnen,  dass  Kreta  nicht  zum  Stiitzpunkt  englischer  und 
Russland  feindlicher  Interessen  wird.  Mit  oder  ohne  einen 
griechischen  Prinzen  hat  Russland  die  Vorgange  auf  Kreta 
doch  nicht  allein  in  der  Hand,  und  das  Zarenreich  bleibt  in 
dem  einen  wie  in  dem  anderen  Falle  gezwungen,  seine 
dortigen  Interessen  von  Fall  zu  Fall  zu  wahren  und  zu 
festigen. 

Nachdem  also  Russland  von  Neuem  als  Schutzmacht  der 
christlichen  Volker  des  Orients  sich  erwiesen,  nachdem  div.' 
sympathischen  Beziehungen  wieder  hergestellt  waren,  durftc 
die  Kandidatur  des  Prinzen  ohne  Bedenken  einer  neuen  Reihc 
politischer  Erwagungen  geopfert  werden. 

Oesterreich  konnte  mit  Recht  befurchten,  dass  ein  Geschenk 
an  das  besiegte  Griechenland — und  sei  es  auch  nur  ein 
Geschenk,  das  erst  in  Zukunft  das  vollig  freie  Eigentum  des 
Empfangers  sein  wird — die  Begierden  der  anderen  Balkan- 
volker  in  gefahrlicher  Weise  reizen  werde.  Solche  Gefahren 
zu  fordern,  hatte  Oesterreich-Ungarn  keine  Veranlassung ; 
solche  Gefahren  zu  fordern  hatte  auch  Deutschland  keine 
Veranlassung  in  Riicksicht  auf  Oesterreich-Ungarn,  wie  in 
Rucksicht  auf  unsere  guten  Beziehungen  zur  Turkei,  vor 
allem  aber  in  Rucksicht  auf  den  Weltfrieden.  Utvd  ^^\xc\ 
Russland  seine  eigene  Politik  der  letzten  Z^vl  iox\sfe\xew^OX\R.> 


888  COSMOPOLIS. 

die  gleichfalls  das  Ziel  verfolgte,  den  Frieden  im  europaischen 
Orient  nach  Moglichkeit  zu  schutzen,  schon  aus  dem  Gninde, 
um  fur  Asien  nicht  behindert  zu  sein,  so  ergab  sich  der 
Anschluss  des  Zarenreiches  an  Oesterreich-Ungam  von  selbst; 
er  war  um  so  unbedenklicher,  nachdem  Russland  fur  die 
christlichen  Volker  des  Orients  seinen  guten  Ruf  als  die 
ihnen  iiach  Mdglichkcit  geneigte  Schutzmacht  wieder  hergestellt 
hatte. 

Unter  solchen  l^mstanden  ist  es,  solange  alleindie/>t>/f7/sc//^// 
Faktoren  in  Betracht  gezogen  werden,  durchaus  nicht  wahr- 
scheinlich,  dass  die  Kandidatur  des  Prinzen  Georg  die  alten 
Beziehungen  Russlands  zu  seinen  westlichen  Nachbaren 
storen  wird.  Man  kann  daher  Zutrauen  zu  den  Worten  des 
russischen  "  Regierungsboten  "  haben,  die  besagen,  da<^  da^- 
Zarenreich 

in  allerbcstcn  Beziehungen  zur  Tiirkei,  wie  auch  zu  denjenigcn  europai- 
schen Machtcn  verblcibt,  welche  sich  nicht  sympathisch  zu  RnsslamN 
Vorschlagen  verhielten. 

Es  kann  die  begrundete  Hoffnung  gehegt  werden,  dass  die 
Kandidatur  des  Prinzen  Gorg  eine  international  bedeutungs- 
lose  Episode  bleibt,  die  Russland  von  den  Wegen  seiner 
bisherigen  Politik  nicht  ablenkt,  trotz  den  Wunschen  einiger 
Miichte,  die  dies  zu  erreichen  hoffen. 

Fur  die  Zukunft  Kretas  mussen  jene  Garantien  geschaffen 
werden,  die  Russland  verlangt,  und  gegen  die  sich  zu  stellen 
weder  Oesterreich-Ungarn  noch  Deutschland  eine  Veran- 
lassung  haben.  Kein  Nachschub  turkischer  Truppen  nach 
Kreta  ;  keine  Zwangsmaassregeln  gegen  die  Insel  ;  aber  auch 
keine  vollstandige  staatsrechtliche  Losl5sung  von  der  Tiirkei ; 
vielmehr  ein  Gouverneur,  der  nominell  dem  Sultan  untersteht 
und  der  doch  kein  turkischer  Untertan  ist. 

Fur  die  Turkei  ist  Kreta  in  Wirklichkeit  verloren.  EHeser 
Verlust  ist  kein  schwerer  ;  denn  die  Insel  schw'achte  nur 
die  Turkei.  Sie  ist  eine  Verlegenheit  fur  das  turkische  Reich, 
das  eine  hinreichende  Flotte,  um  die  Insel  zu  halten,  nicht 
besitzt. 

Die  Aufgabe,  die  zu  losen  ist,  besteht  also  darin,  das 
Selbstgefuhl  der  Griechen  nicht  zu  steigern,  um  nicht  die 
Aufregung    bei    den    anderen    Balkanvolkem    gefahrvoU  m 


POLITISCHES   IN    DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  889 

schuren,  und  der  Insel  einen  Gouverneur  zu  geben,  der 
langsam  wieder  die  Verhaltnisse  zu  friedlichen  und  menschen- 
wurdigen  Zustanden  zuriickfiihrt. 

Warum     sollte    nicht   auch    Russland  hierzu   helfen,  und 
warum  sollte  dieses  Ziel  alsdann  sich  nicht  erreichen  lassen  ? 

»  * 

Die  Erorterung,  welche  die  CosMOPOLis  iiber  den  So- 
zialisnius  angercgt  hat,  crscheint  mil*  in  hohem  Grade  interes- 
sant ;  sie  ist  umso  beachtenswerter  fur  Deutschland,  weil 
gerade  jetzt  bei  uns  sich  ein  Symptom  gezeigt  hat,  welches 
beweist,  dass  langsam  neiie  Anschauungen  in  den  Kreisen 
unserer  radikalsten  Partei  sich  zur  Geltung  durchzuringen 
suchen. 

Dieses  bei  uns  viel  besprochene  Symptom  zeigt  sich  in  einer 
Darlegung  von  Ed.  Bernstein  in  der  "  Neuen  Zeit,"*  der  auch 
in  dem  vorliegenden  Hefte  dieser  Zeitschrift  einen  sehr 
bedeutsamen  kleinen  Beitrag  gespendet  hat,  und  der  mit  Karl 
Kautsky  zur  Zeit  anerkanntermaassen  der  hervorragendste 
Theoretiker  der  sozialdemokratischen  Partei  Deutschlands  ist. 

Auf  dem  Londoner  internationalen  Sozialisten-Congress 
war  die  folgende  Tliese  angenommen  worden  : 

The  economic  and  industrial  development  is  going  on  with  such 
rapidity  that  a  crisis  may  occur  within  a  comparatively  short  time.  The 
Congress,  therefore,  impresses  upon  the  proletariat  of  all  countries  the 
imperative  necessity  for  learning,  as  class-conscious  citizens,  how  to 
administer  the  business  of  their  respective  countries  for  the  common 
good. 

Diese  These  sprach  das  aus,  was  man  gemeinhin  bei  den 
Sozialdemokraten  erwartet  und  was  man  bei  uns  nach  einem 
Bebelschen  Ausspruch  als  den  unmitelbar  bevorstehenden, 
allgemeinen  "  Kladderadatsch  "  bezeichnet. 

Den  Glauben  an  diesen  nahenden  "  Kladderadatsch  "  zerstort 
jetzt  Bernstein.     Das  ist  ein  bedeutsames  Anzeichen. 

So  lohnt  es  sich,  in  einem  raschen  Ueberblick  zu  zeigen,  wie 
die  politische  Entwicklung  der  sozialdemokratischen  Partei 
bei  uns  in  Deutschland  sich  vollzogen  hat,  bis  schliesslich  die 
Hoffnung  auf  den   *'  Kladderadatsch  "  das  letzte   Leuchtfeuer 

♦  Die  Neue  Zeit,  No.  16  und  18,  vom  15.  und  24.  Januar  1898.  Stuttgart  bei 
J.H.W.  Diet*. 


890  COSMOi  OLIS. 

wurde  nach  clem  man  marschirte  ;  unci  auch  dieses  beginnt 
zu  flacker n. 

Schon  in  der  Revolutionszeit  des  Jahres  1848*  streiite  Karl 
Marx  communistische  Saat  als  Redacteur  der  "  Neuen 
Rheinischen  Zeitung"  aus.  Er  war  vorher  in  Brussel  Mitglied 
des  Communistenbundes  geworden,  und  er  und  Engels 
zusammen  batten  unmittelbar  vor  der  Februarrevolution  aut 
Beschluss  des  Communistencongresses  von  1847  das  bekanntt 
"  Manifest  der  communistisctien  Partei  "  veroffentlicht. 

Der  Samen,  den  Marx  in  jenen  Tagen  bei  uns  ausstreute,  hat 
so  gut  wie  keine  Fruchte  getragen. 

In  die  revolutionaren  Verhaltnisse  des  Rheinlandes  verstrickt 
war  damals  auch  Ferdinand  Lassalle,  und  die  comniunistischen 
Gedanken  schlugen  schon  damals  an  sein  Ohr,  ohne  ihn 
freilich  gefangen  zu  nehmen. 

Marx  verliess  Deutschland  und  fand  eine  neue  Heimat  in 
London  ;  hier  stand  im  engsten  personlichen  Verkehr  mil  ihm 
von  1850  bis  1862  Liebknecht,  auch  ein  deutscher  Fluchtling 
der  Revolution  von  1848,  und  wie  dieser  Mann,  voii  dem  die 
Leser  der  COSMOPOLIS  soeben  einen  Beitrag  vor  Augen  batten, 
zu  Marx  sich  stellte,  das  zeigt  ein  einzelner  Ausspruch. 
Liebknecht  hat  "  Karl  Marx  zum  Gedachtnis "  eine  kleine 
Schrift  herausgegeben  ;*  dort  liest  man  : 

Auch  Marx  war  mir  niemals  ein  Gotze,  obfjlcich  er  von  alien  ^fcn- 
schen.  niit  donen  ich  im  Lcbcn  zusammentraf,  der  Kinzigc  ist,  der  mir 
iinponirt  hat. 

Man  denke,  der  —  Einzige. 

Zur  Zeit,  da  Liebknecht  als  unbedingter  Anhanger  von 
Marx  nach  Deutschland  zuri'ickkehrte,  begann  eine  starker  und 
starker  hervortretende  Entfremdung  zwischen  Lassalle  und 
der  Fortschrittspartei,  der  er  bisher  angehort  hatte,  Platz  zu 
greifen.  Ob  Lassalle  von  der  Fortschrittspartei  verletzte 
Eitelkeit  trennte,  weil  man  ihm  nicht  eine  geburende  Stellung 
einraumte,  sei  hier  nicht  erortert ;  jedenfalls  verstand  es 
Lassalle,  auch  sachliche  Gegensatze  herauszuarbeiten. 

Die  Fortschrittspartei  kampf te  in  jener  Zeit  den  Verfassungs- 
conHict  mit  dem  Ministerium  Bismarck  aus.  Lassalle 
verlangte  Fernbleiben  der  Linken  aus  dem  Parlament,  um 
flamit     die    gesamte      Regirungsmaschine     schliesslich      ins 


POLITISCHES   IN    DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  891 

Stocken  zu  bringen.  Auf  diesen  Boden  wollte  die  Partei 
nichl  treten.  Die  Misshelligkeilen  steigerten  sich.  Da 
kniipfte  Lassalle  an  die  T.it>ache  an,  dass  die  Fortschrittler  die 
Frage  des  allgemeinen,  gleichcn  und  direkten  Wahlrechtes 
niemais  im  Interesse  der  Arbeiter  kraftvoll  in  die  Hand  ge- 
nommen  batten.  Die  Linke,  die  damals  parlamentariscb  die 
Macht  in  Handen  hatte,  verhielt  sich  zu  jener  Zeit  in 
Preussen,  wie  in  gleicher  Lage  spater  die  Doctrinare  in 
Beigien  und  die  liberalen  Deutschen  in  Oesterreich,  eine 
Entwicklung,  die  gleich  verhangnisvoll  fiir  alle  drei  Lander 
und  fur  alle  drei  liberalen  Parteien  wurde.  Man  war  nicht 
mit  vollem  Herzen  geneigt,  die  parlamentarische  Macht,  uber 
die  man  verfugte,  den  Masj-en  zugiinglich  zu  machen,  die 
vorlautig  noch  die  Ausiibung  dieser  Macht  den  biirgerlichen 
Schichten  willig  uberliessen.  Lassalle  rief  diesen  zu  :  "  Das 
allgemeine  Wahlrecht  ist  das  Zeichen,  in  dem  Ihr  siegen 
werdet."  Und  er  ging  weiter :  dass  allgemeine  Wahlrecht 
soUte  benutzt  werden  zur  Umwandlung  des  Staates  in 
sozialistischem  Sinne  ;  denn  die  Arbeiterbevolkerung  ist 
durch  das  eherne  Lohngesetz  in  der  heutigen  Gesellschafts- 
ordnung  geschmiedet  an  ein  Minimum  des  Einkommens, 
nurgerade  ausreichend,  um  die  Fortpflanzung  zu  ermoglichen. 
Der  Uebergang  zum  Sozialismus  aber  sollte  gesucht  werden 
durch  Arbeiterproductivgenossenschaften  mit  Staatscredit. 
Mit  diesen  Forderungen  war  der  Bruch  mit  der  Fort- 
schrittspartei  vollzogen  und  ein  Programm  autgestellt,  das 
die  Arbeiter  als  Partei  mit  eigenen  Interessen  und  eigenen 
Zielen  zusammcnzufassen  suchte. 

Diese  Arbeiterpartei,  die  Lassalle  langsam  aus  dem  Nichts 
mit  ungerheurer  agitatorischer  Energie  zu  schaffen  suchte, 
wurde  von  ihrem  Begrunder  zugleich  mit  aller  Anstrengung 
auf  nationalem  .Boden  festgehalten,  und  diese  Organisation 
sollte  auch  fiir  die  in  der  Luft  liegenden  nationalen  Ziele,  fur 
die  Einigung  Deutschlands,  eingesetzt  werden. 

Liebknecht,  der  aus  der  Umgebung  von  Marx,  aus  der  cos- 
mopolitischen  Londoner  Fliichtlingswelt,  nach  Deutschland 
gekommen  war,  wollte  von  einer  nationalen  Arbeiterbewegung 
nichts  wissen.  Er  kniipfte  vielmehr  gerade  an  die  sachsische 
und   siiddeutsche  Preussen feindschail  arv,  wwA  ^t  ^N\^  W,-ax^ 


892  COSMOPOLIS. 

haben  sicher  auch  niemals  daran  geglaubt,  dass  das  gewaltige 
Arbeiterproblem  durch  so  kleine  bureaukratische  Mittel  wit- 
die  Griindung  von  Arbeiterproductivgenossenschaften  mit 
Staatscredit  sich  losen  Hesse ;  Mittel  die  noch  dazu  die  radikale 
Demokratic  in  gefahrliche  Niihe  zum  jetzi^en  monarch ischen 
Staate  bringen  musste. 

Volkswirtschaftlicli  warder  Blick  von  Marx  ein  viel  vveiterer 
als  der  von  Lassalle  ;  or  konnte  ein  viel  weiterer  sein,  weil 
Marx  unter  den  wirtschaftlich  so  viel  aiisgebildeteren  en- 
glischen  Verhaltnissen  lebte,  und  so  gelangte  Marx  zu  der 
folgenden  Anschauung,  die  dann  Liebknecht  nach  Deutsch- 
land  brachte  : 

Das  Proletariat  beginnt  orst  (lurch  die  licrcinbrcchcndc  iiuiusiriclh 
Bewegung  fiir  Dcutschland  zu  werdcn,  dcnn  nicht  die  iiatunvftchsi^ 
cntstiiiKfciu,  sondern  die  kuns/lich  proifitciiic  Armut,  nicht  die  mechanisch 
(hirch  die  Schwcrc  der  (icsellschaft  niedcrgedriicktc,  sondern  die  aus 
ihrer  acutcn  Auflosung,  vorzugsweisc  aus  (\ev  Auflo^un^  des  Mitiehtamic^, 
hcrvorgehende  Menschcnniasse  bildet  das  Proletariat,  obgleich  allmahlich, 
wie  sich  von  selbst  versteht,  auch  die  naturwOchsige  Armut  und  die 
christlich-gcrmanische  Lcibcigenschaft  in  seine  Reihcn  treten. 

Diese  Auflfassung,  die  Erwartung  auf  die  langsame  Auflosung 
des  Mittelstandes  durch  die  industrielle  Entwicklung,  muss 
man  sich  vergegenwartigen,  um  die  Liebfcnechtsche  Art  des 
Vorgehens  zu  verstehen  und  um  zu  verstehen,  dass  Lassalle 
trotz  all  seiner  Anstrengungen  bis  zu  seinem  Tode  weit. 
reichende  Erfolge  nicht  zu  erzielen  vermochte. 

Liebknecht  trug  den  obigen  Anschauungen  von  Marx  Rech- 
nung,  und  wahrend  Lassalle  gewalttatig  vorwarts  ging,  unter 
volligem  Bruch  niit  der  Fortschrittspartei,  stellte  Liebknecht 
seinen  Sozialismus,  der  der  Essenz  nach  viel  konsequenter  war, 
im  Anfang  vorsichtig  zuriick,  zog  fortschrittliche  Krafte  —  vor 
allem  Rebel  —  an  sich  und  hielt  Fuhlung  mit  den  suddeut- 
schen  Demokraten. 

Die  Strategic  Liebknechts  in  dieser  Beziehung  erkennt  man 
aus  einem  die  Karten  aufdeckenden  Briefe,  den  eran  Bonhoi>t 
ini  Oktober  j  869  schrieb  ;  da  heisst  es  : 

Mein  Wunsch  ist,  nicht  vorzcitig  mit  der  sflddeutschcix  Volksparlei  in 
Krakchl  zu  gcratcn.  Von  Gera  nach  Niirnberg,  von  Niirnberg  nach 
Eisenach^-  ist  schon  ein  rascher  Vormarsch.  Wartet  noch  ein  wenig. 
dann  sind  die  Lcutchen  schon  im  Stande,  nach  Basel  zu  marschircn.  Abcr 
jetzt  noch  mcht. 


POLITISCHES    IN    DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  893 

Und  im  November  desselben  Jahres  schrieb  Liebknecht  an 
Bracke  : 

Die  Volksparteiler  verlangen  ein  Desaveu  der  Baseler  Beschlflsse. 
Nimmermehr !  Ich  selbst  bin  Communist,  also  prinzipiell  mit  den 
Beschldssen  einverstanden. 

Schon  fuhlte  sich  Liebknecht  stark  geniig,  alle  Riicksichten 
fallen  zu  lavSsen  und  sich  often  ziim  Communisnius  zu  bekennen, 
dem  er  als  Anhiinger  von  Marx  innerhch  scit  Langcni 
angehorte. 

Noch  einmal  erwies  sich  Liebknecht  als  ein  hervorragender 
politischer  Taktiker. 

Lassalle  war  im  Duell  gefallen.     Seine  politische  Erbschaft 
ward  verzettelt  und  vergeudet  unter  kleinen  Nachfolgern,  bis 
Herr  von  Schweitzer  in  die  Bewegung  der  Lassalleaner  einen 
neuen  sehr  erhebUchen  Aufschwung  brachte.     Schweitzer,  eine 
begabte,  genusssuchtige  und  frivoie  Natur,  ein  Mann  in  Farben 
schiilernd,  die  denen  Lassalles  nicht  allzu  unahnlich  waren, 
wurde  schhessHch  des  Kampfes  miide  mit  der  Regirung,  mit 
den    Parteien,   die  rechts   von   ihm   standen,    und    mit    den 
marxistischen  Anhangern  von  Liebknecht,  den   *'  EhrHchen/' 
die  ihn  auf  das  heftigste  befehdeten  aus  Grunden  der  Fuhrer- 
und  Fractions-Rivalitat,  aus  Misstrauen  gegen  seine  EhrHch- 
keit,  aber  auch   aus   rein   sachiichen  Grunden,  die  aus  dem 
Gegensatz  Lassalle  und  Marx  fortwirkten  ;  er  zog  sich  aus  der 
Bewegung  zuruck,  und  als  jetzt  die  preussiche  Regirung  beide 
Richtungen  gleichmassig  bis  zum  Aeussersten  verfolgte  und 
die  gleichmassige  Verfolgung    die    entzweiten     Zwillinge    in 
gleichem  Ungluck  naherte,  da  zeigte  sich  Liebknecht  und  seine 
Umgebung  wiederumtaktisch  der  Lage  vollkommengewachsen. 
Im  Jahre    1875   vereinigten  sich  die   Lassalleaner  und  die 
Marxisten    zu    Gotha,    und     um     die      Empfindungen     der 
Lassalleaner    zu    schonen,    legte    man    einen    Entwurf    der 
Einigung  zu   Grunde,   in   dem  als  unumstossliche  Wahrheit 
auch  das  Lassallesche  eherne  Lohngesetz  zu  finden  war,  und 
das  taten    Liebknecht   und    seine   Anhanger,  obgleich    Marx 
den  Entwurf    in   einem  Briefe    an  jene    "  verwerflich "    und 
"  demoralisirend,"  ein  "  ungeheuerliches  Attentat  auf    die  in 
der  Parteimasse  verbreitete  Einsicht*'  nannte.    S^\^Vm.^V>x\  \;^\^ 
mhrten  Ifiebknecht  und  seine  Freuude  t\\cYv\  tvxv  ^Lewv.  ^^\\vev\ 


8()4  COSMOPOLIS. 

Lohngesetz,  das  in  der  Agitation  nach  wie  vor  die  alte  Kollc 
spielte  und  das  gegen  jeden  Einspruch  der  Gegner  verteidigt 
wurde  und  erst  auf  dem  Sozialistencongress  in  Erfurt  wurde 
endiich,  nachdem  Marxisten  und  Lassalleaner  in  der  Partei 
voilstandig  verschmolzen  waren,  das  eherne  Lohngesetz 
Lassaiies,  dieses  Zugstuck  der  Agitation,  zum  alten  Eisen 
geworfen—  ,  taktisch  eine  hervorragende  Leistiing,  uber  deren 
Ehrlichkeit  kein  Wort  zu  verlieren  ist. 

Der  sozialistischen  Bewegung  kamen  in  Deutschland  zwei 
ausserordentlich  gliickliche  Faktoren  zu  Hilfe  :  die  Menschcn, 
welche  die  Bewegung  bei  uns  in  Gang  brachten,  und  die 
Zeitumstdndc,  von  denen  die  Agitation  dieser  Fuhrer  begleitet 
war.  Man  muss  noch  ein  drittes,  negatives  Moment 
hinzuziehen  :  die  mangelnde  Kahigkeit  der  (iegner  des 
Sozialismus,  die  Stromung  einzudammen. 

In  zweckdienlichster  Weise  erganzten  sich  die  Fahigkeiten 
von  Lassalle,  Marx  und  Liebknecht. 

Lassalle  war  eine  glanzvoUe  Erscheinung,  und  gerade  auch 
seine  Fehler,  seine  Neigung  zu  theatralischer  Pose,  seine 
blendenden,  agitatorisch  zugespitzten  Formuiirungen,  dieses 
Don  Juan-Leben  bei  einem  Manne,  der  zugleich  Gelehrter, 
Dichter  und  Volksbegluckersein  wolite,  das  alles  war  geeignet 
die  Blicke  auf  ein  politisches  Unternehmen  zu  lenken, 
das  in  der  Entstehung  begriffen  war.  Will  man  vulgar  sprechen, 
so  kann  man  sagen,  Lassalle  war  der  wirkungsvoUe 
Marktschreier  der  Bewegung,  und  zwar  nicht  allein  der 
Marktschreier  fiir  die  Arbeiterbevolkerung,  sondern,  seiner 
Vergangenheit  als  Gelehrter  nach,  auch  fur  die  gebildeten 
Stilnde.  Nur  eine  Gestalt  wie  er  konnte  damals  die  Discussion 
des  Sozialismus  auf  die  Tagesordnung  setzen  ;  damals,  zu  einer 
Zeit,  als  der  Sozialismus  eine  politische  Macht  nicht  war  und 
aus  diesem  Grunde  sich  Beachtung  noch  nicht  erzwingen 
konnte.  Das  war  ein  ausserordentlicher  V'orteil ;  und  kein 
ephemerer. 

Marx  hob  den  Sozialismus  aus  dem  Kleinkram  Bakunistischer 
Verschworungen  heraus,  und  einer  welthistorischen  Bewegung, 
die  durch  eine  tiefgehende  Revolution  in  Handel  und  Verkehr 
erzeugt  war,  gab  er  in  Betrachtung  der  englischen  Vorgange 
eine  grosse  brejte  Basis,  die  aus  wissensqhaftlicher  Erkenntnis 


POLITISCHES   IN    DEUTSCHER   BELEUCHTUNG.  895 

und  wissenschaftlichen  Fehlschliissen  geschafifen  war.  Sah  er  in 
den  Folgerungen  nicht  richtig,  so  sah  er  richtig  in  dem  Punkte, 
dass  mit  der  modernen  Arbeiterbevolkerung  ein  Element  von 
gewaltigem  politischen  Gewicht  auf  die  offentliche  Bahn  trat ; 
er  erkannte,  dass  einer,  der  sich  dieses  Elementes  zu  bemachti- 
gen  verstand,  eine  starke  Waflfe  in  die  Hand  bekam  ;  ganz  Las- 
salles  Ansicht  ;  aber  losgelost  von  den  heimischen  Verhalt- 
nissen/^in  Mitten  des  englischen  Weltgetriebes,  fasste  er  die 
Aufgabe  grosser  und  tiefer  als  Lassalle,  der,  den  schnellen 
Erfolg  anstrebend,  weder  so  logisch,  noch  so  konsequent  die 
Falschen  und  richtigen  Voraussetzungen  der  sozialistischen 
Bewegung  weiter  verfolgte. 

•  Die  Marxsche  Anschauung,  die  eingehiillt  ist  in  einen 
schweren,  bei  uns  besonders  imponirenden  Mantel  der  Wissen- 
schaftlichkeit,  trug  Liebknecht  nach  Deutschland,  und  er,  der 
als  Communist  schon  nach  Deutschland  kam,  verdeckte  seine 
Anschauungen  mit  taktischem  Geschick  so  lange,  arbeitete 
solange  unermiidlich,  bald  Concessionen  machend,  bald 
unerbittlich,  bis  er  eine  einige  grosse  sozialistische  Partei 
geschaffen  hatte.  Ein  Theoretiker,  ein  glanzender  Herolil  der 
Theorie  und  ein  Taktiker,  der  mit  unerraiidlichem  Geschick 
den  Aufgaben  des  Tages  gewachsen  blieb,  in  einer  gahrenden 
Zeit,  da  Deutschland  den  Uebergang  zum  Industriestaat 
vollzog. 

Diese  ausserste  Opposition  musste  zunachst  mit  jener  Partei 
zusammenstossen,  die  bis  dahin  das  Monopol  der  Opposition 
gepachtet  hatte. 

Die  Fortschrittspartei,  die  damalige  schroffste  Opposition, 
war  der  Nachwuchs  des  biirgerlichen  Radikalismus,  der  bei 
uns  die  Revolution  von  1848  gemacht  hatte. 

In  diesen  biirgerlichen,  zum  Teil  kleinbiirgerlichen, 
Kreisen  fehlte  das  voile  Verstandnis  fur  die  Wirkung  der 
modernen  industriellen  Welt  -  Entwicklung,  die  in  Deutsch- 
land nur  schiichtern  sich  zu  zeigen  begann.  Fiir  die 
Anschauungen,  die  Empfindungen,  die  Bediirfnisse  der 
modernen  Arbeiter,  dieses  Typus,  den  die  Maschinenindustrie 
geschaffen  hatte,  fehlte  der  radikalen  Bourgeoisie  das  Ver- 
standnis, deren  Blick  im  VVesentlichen  auf  politische  Verfas- 
sungsfragen    gerichtet    war.     Man   griff   auch  wirtschaftliche 


S()6  OOSMOFOLIS. 

Fragen  in  origineller  Weise  auf  ;  Schulze-Delitzsch,  der  die 

so   ausserordentliche   segensvoUe   Genossenschafts-Bewegung 

ins  Leben  rief,  damit  Ausgezeichnetes,  aber  in  erster  Reihe  fur 

den  kleinen  Burgerstand,  nicht  fur  den    Arbeiter  ;    und  die 

Gewerkvereine    unter    Max    Hirsch    packten    auch    ihrerseits 

nicht  geniigend  die  Arbeiter,  well  sie  gleichfalls  zunachst  in 

hoherem    Grade    Instrument   zur  Forderung  der  politischen 

Ziele  der  damaligen  Oppositionspartei,    als    Instrumente  zur 

ausschliesslichen    Forderung    der    Arbeiterinteressen    w'aren, 

Oder  vveil  sie  doch  den    Schein,    fortschrittlich   zu   arbeiten, 

nicht  geniigend  abstreiften.     Ludwig  Bamberger  druckt  das 

ein  Mai  so  aus  : 

Das  (jruiidiibcl  unscrcr  spcziellcn  dcutschcn  Gewerkvereine  5»itzt  in 
ilircni  politischen  Ursprung.  Farteiinteressc  hat  sie  inb  Leben  genifcn. 
und  naeh  deni  oft  angewandten  Sat/e  bleibt  das  Priuzip  dcs  Ursprung- 
auch  das  Prin/ip  det  Krhaltung.  Tnd  nicht  hlo^s  das  :  ganz  von  selb>l. 
wie  sich  die  politische  Tcndenz  der  Pflege  der  Institution,  so  widmet  sich 
die  Institution  der  Pflege  der  politischen  Tendenz. 

Und  wahrend  die  politische  Opposition  in  falscher  Beurtei- 
lung  des  Wesens  einer  Bewegung,  die  eine  neue  Entwicklung 
des  Wirtschaftslebens  geschaffen  hatte,  die  Zugel  verier, 
forderten  ihrerseits  auch  die  herrschenden  Machte  diese 
niunliche  Bewegung. 

Die  rucksichtslosen  Verfolgungen  des  Staatsanwalts  Tessen- 
dorf  waren  es  vor  allem  gewesen,  welche  die  verfeindeten 
Lassalleaner  und  Anhanger  von  Marx  zusammengeschweisst 
hatten,  und  als  dann  die  Festigkeit  der  Bewegung  sich  wieder 
etwas  zu  losen  begann,  da  waren  es  das  Sozialistengesetz  und 
die  Erneuerung  des  Sozialistengesetzes,  die  die  Partei  mit 
einem  eisernen  Reifen  zusammenschmiedeten,  wahrend  die 
Umbildung  Deutschlands  zu  einem  Industriestaat  immer  neue 
Schaaren  der  Partei  zufiihrten.  Jetzt  schien  der  Satz  von 
Marx  gerechtfertigt  durch  die  Tatsiichen  **  Proletarier  aller 
Liinder,  vereinigt  euch  1 " 

Seitdem  das  Sozialistengesetz  gefallen  ist  und  seitdem  die 
Erbitterung  iiber  den  Polizeikampf  langsam  schwindet,  tritt 
innerlialb  der  sozialistischen  Partei  wiederum  die  Frage 
hervor  :  Was  beginnen  wir  mit  den  Kraften,  die  wir  haben  ? 

Ueber  die  Durchfuhrbarkeit  der  sozialistischen  Ideale  will 
ich  nicht  sprechen  :  das  haben  andere  hier  getan.     Mir  scheint 


PdLll'lSOtiKS    IN    DECfSCHKk    liELliuOllTUNG.  H97 

deri  Gnuidirrtum   dts\  So^ialismus    in   einepn    Umstaiide   zu 
liegen.     Liebknecht  sagt  ein  Mai  : 

So  ibtdie  menschliche  Kultur  Arbeit  und  Produkt  dcr  Arbeitsmittul. 

Es  ist  wahr :  "  die  Geschichte  der  Menschen  ist  die  Geschichtc  der 
Wcrkzcugc" — der  VVcrkzeuge  und  der  durch  die  Wcrkzeuge  bedingten 
I  *roduktionsformeii. 

1st  aber  die  menschliche  Kultur  Produkt  der  Arbeitsmittel, 
so  ist  auch  die  Kultur  Allen  zuganglich,  wenn  die  Arbeits- 
mittel Allen  zuganglich  sind.  Nur  ein,  und  freilich  das  wich- 
tigste,  Arbeitsmittel — so  ist  zu  erwidern — kann  man  nicht 
alien  gleichmassig  zuganglich  machen  :  den  Fleiss,  die  geistige 
und  korperliche  Kraft  dessen,  der  die  Werkzeuge  benutzt. 
Dieses  Werkzeug,  das  Werkzeug  aller  Werkzeuge,  bleibt 
ewig  ungleich  verteilt  und  die  sich  daraus  ergebende  Konse- 
quenz  ist  nicht  aus  der  Welt  zu  schaffen. 

So  ist  der  Sozialismus  nicht  die  politische  Philosophic  fin- 
die  moderne  Welt  in  ihrer  Gesamtheit,  sondern  er  ist  nur  die 
Philosophic  der  modernen  M;ischinenhallc,  wo  man  den  einen 
Arbeiter,  der  gleichwcrtig  den  anderen  ist,  zu  anderen 
Maschinen  ohne  grosse  Storung  versetzen  kann. 

Aber  naher  liegend  als  der  Zukunftsstaat  selbst  ist  die  Frage  : 
wic  gelangt  man  zu  ihm  ?     Das  ist  die  Vorfrage. 

Marx  erteiltc  hicrauf  die  Antworl  ;  indem  er  die  Vorgiingc, 
die  er  vor  Augen  hatte,  wic  i'lblicli,  verallgemeinerte  und  die 
Hemmungen,  die  einer  vorhandenen  Bewegung  entgegen- 
standen  und  sich  welter  und  weiter  entgegenstellen,  ausser 
Acht  licss,  kam  cr  zu  seinen  Folgerungen.  In  immer 
weniger  Hande  gelangen  alle  Reichtiimer  der  Welt,  und 
diesen  wenigen  ungeheuer  Reichen,  die  den  Besitz  der  Masse 
sich  aneigneten,  die  die  Massen  expropriirten,  steht  diese 
riesige  Menge  der  Verarmten  schliesslich  allein  gegeniiber. 
Hat  die  Masse  erst  das  Bewusstsein  ihrer  Kraft,  so  ist  es  ein 
Kleines,  reinen  Tisch  fiir  einc  neue  Weltordnung  zu  schaffen. 
Die  Vielen  legen  ohne  Schwierigkeit  die  Hand  auf  den  Besitz 
der  Wenigen,  und  die  Neuzeit  bricht  an. 

"  Die  Expropriateure  werdeii  cxpropriirt." 

Liebknecht  behauptet  von  den  Miinnern,  die  diese  Gedan- 
kengiinge  festlegten  : 

Sie  haben  den  Sozialismus  zur  Wissenschaft  ciiioben,  ihn  auf  den  Granit- 
boden  der  Tatsachen  gestellt  und  seinen  Sieg  zum  notwendigen  Ergebnis 
cincs  Kcchencxcniplcs  niit  fcsten,  feststehendcn  Grosscn  j^emacht. 


898  COSMOPOLIS. 

Diesen  Granitboden  unci  dieses  Rechenexempel  untersuchte 
Bernstein — ich  citire  nicht  aus  seinen  Darlegungen,  man  lese 
sie  nach — und  er  kommt  zu  dem  Ergebnis,  dass  die  Armut 
der  Massen  nicht  ungeheuer  wachst  und  dass  der  Reichtum 
der  Wenigen  audi  nicht  ungeheuer  wachst ;  er  sieht,  wie 
audi  die  inoderne  Zeit  der  Maschinen  die  Grundlage  der 
vorhandenen  Gesellschaft  nicht  fundamental  erschuttert,  und 
er  glaubt  deshalb  nicht,  dass  aus  dieser  Entwicklung  ein 
baldiger,  ja  nur  ein  absehbarer  Zusammenbruch  des  Beste- 
henden  zu  erwarten  ist. 

Bernstein  sagt  : 

Man  wird  nun  die  Frage  aufwcrl'cn,  ob  mit  dicker  Darlcgung  die 
Vcrwirldichung  dcs  Sozialismus  nicht  auf  den  St.  Ximmerseinstag 
verlegt  oder  auf  viele  Gcnerationen  hinaus  vertagt  ist.  Wenn  mail 
unter  Verwirklichung  des  Sozialismus  die  Krrichtung  cincr  in  alien 
Funktcn  strong  communistisch  geregelten  Gesellschaft  versteht,  so 
trage  ich  allerdings  kein  Bedenken,  zu  erklarcn,  dass  mir  dcrsclhe  noch  in 
ziemlich  weiter  Feme  zu  liegen  scheint. 

Aber  sozialer  Fortschritt  fiir  die  Arbeiter,  politische  und 
wirtschaftHche  Agitation  und  Organisation  zur  Erzielung 
dieses  Fortschrittes — das  bleibt  erstrebenswert. 

Damit  kniipft  man  an  die  reale  Wirkiichkeit,  an  das,  was  sicli 
heute  und  morgen  erreichen  lasst,  wieder  an,  und  mit  dieser 
Ankniipfung  ist  die  Moglichkeit  des  Zusammenarbeitens  mit 
den  Liberalen  gegeben. 

Das  er^te  Auftauchen  solcher  Moglichkeiten  heisst  nicht 
Verwirklichung  ;  der  Weg  ist  noch  weit  und  der  Ruckschlage 
weiden  noch  viele  sein  ;  aber  der  Sommer  kommt,  und  wenn 
die  ersten  Schwalben  auch  durch  Hagelschauer  wieder 
verscheucht  werden. 

Diese  gesunde  Entwicklung  aber  often  gehalten  zu  haben, 
ist  das  nicht  hoch  genug  zu  veranschlagende  Verdienst  des 
deutschen  Liberalismus,  der  diis  Sozialistengesetz  mit  seinein 
iiussern  Zwang  gegen  die  Sozialdemokraten  bekampfte  und 
bekampfte  und  schliesslich  die  Beseitigung  des  Gesetzes  herbei* 
fiihrte. 

Begriff  der  Liberalismus  die  moderne  Arbeiterbewegung 
nicht  vollstandig  in  ihrem  Anfang,  so  lernte  er  sie  spater 
richtig  beurteilen,  und  in  jenen  Tagen  wird  Deutschland,  das 
wirtschaftlich  von  Tag  zu  Tag  mehr  ein  moderner  Staat  wird, 


POLITISCHES   IN    DErTSCHEK    BELEICHTUNG.  899 

auch  politische  ein  moderner  Staat  sein,  da  aufgeklartes 
Burgertum  und  Arbeiter  wieder  gemeinsam  den  Kampf 
gegen  die  Reaktion  aufnehmen. 

Ich  mochte  wol  wissen,  woher  die  Licbe  des  Fiirsten 
Bismarck  fiirdas  Sozialistengesetz  stammt  ;  ob  nur  aus  seineni 
Glauben  an  den  Erfolg  der  zugreifenden  starken  Faust,  oder 
ob  er  nicht  voi  allem  auch  den  Tag  des  erneuten  Zusam- 
menschiusses  von  Arbeiter-  und  Burgertum  hinausschieben 
wollte.  Indem  er  die  Arbeiter  durch  das  Sozialistengesetz 
isolirte  und  in  ihrer  der  lltopie  zuytrebenden  V^erbitterung 
fcsthielt,  machte  er  diese  Krafte  politisch  fi'ir  den  heutigen 
Staat  unbrauchbar. 

llcrliu,   19.  hchniiir  1898.  iGXOTl'S. 


Yoi..  IX.  —NO.  xxvii  rj 


LITTERARISCHES    BULLHTIN. 


DIE  BUCHER  DES  MOXATS. 


Vom  Arlh'itsfcld  lUs  DiUttautismits.  Von 
Alfrcii LiihtiVmk.  Dresden  i8*>7.  (Ver- 
\2i^  von  Gerhard  Ktihtmann.) 

Der  Dilettantismus  hat  in  Deutsch- 
land  seit  langein  an  der  Vorbildung  des 
Gesclimackes  gearheitet  ;  I.ichtwailv 
macht  den  Versuch,  die  Arbcitsnormen 
£\i  kennzeichnen,  durch  die  der  Dilettant 
zu  einetn  F6rderer  der  Kunst,  vor  alleni 
des  Kunstgewerbes,  wcrdcn  kann.  Er 
rfihmt  den  heilsamen  Einfluss,  den  der 
Amateurphotograph  gegeniiber  dem  oh- 
latenhaften  Kctoucheverfahreii  des  Be- 
rufsphotographen  gewiniien  kann,  und 
bctont  den  Wert  der  Blume,  in  Sonder- 
heit  der  Feldbluinc,  als  Vorlage  fiir 
Lesezcichcn,  Kx-libris,  selbstcntworfene 
Bucheinbande,  einfachc  Ornanienlik.  In 
Hamburg  hat  sich  eine  Gcscllschaft  ge- 
bildct,  den  Dilcttantisinus  nacli  solclien 
und  iUinlichen  Gesichtspunktcn  /u  or- 
ganisiren  ;  ihr  ist,  wenn  man  so  will, 
das  Biichlein  gewidmet.  In  den  kur/- 
gefasstcn  Betrachtungen  deutet  vieles 
auf  ein  feincres  Vcrstiindnis  und  ehrliche 
La<^t,  an  der  kiinsilerischen  Bildung  des 
Publikums  mit/uarbeiten. 

Das  St'uuzcUnk  JnhiUuiuUrt  in  Hilt/- 
nisscn.  HcninSj^cgcbcii  ran  Km  I  Wnrk- 
nttisUr.  (VollstJlndig  in  75  Licfe- 
rungen  a  1.50  M.)  Erstc  Liefe- 
rung  (Berlin.  Photographische  Ge- 
sellschaft.) 

Eine  Kuhmeshallc  des  ncun/chnten 
Jahrhundcrts  ohne  irgendwelche  na- 
tionalc  Beschrankung,  eine  Samm- 
lung  von  Bildnissen  all  derer,  die  da/u 
beigetragen  ^  haben,    dcni     fahrhundert 


seine   geisiigc    Physioj^noinic  zu  gcbcn. 
Ein   solches   Werk    /.u   sch;*fTcn  ist  ein 
glucklicher     Gedankc,    and     nach   der 
ersten    Licferung     /u     urteilen,    ist    cr 
glUcklich  ausgcfiihrt.      Die   Fortrat^  ikr 
Briider  Grimm,  Ludwig  Kichters,  Men- 
delssohns,  Siemens',  Thorwaldens,  B}toos 
und  Lamartines,  die  in  der  vorliegendcn 
Lieferung   geboten   werden,    sind  nadi 
den  besten  Originalen  ge\v5hU  und  sdir 
fein    und     sor«^^am     reproducirt.      Ein 
besonderes  Intercsse  darf  das  Bild  Jake* 
(Jrimms  beanspruchcn.    das  nach  ciner 
Zeichnung  von  Herman  Grimm  ist.  Her- 
man Grimm   hat  auch  die    kur/gcfassie 
Biographic  der  Briider  Grimm  geschrie- 
ben  ;  sic  ist  schlicht,  eindringlich,  monu- 
mental.    Auch    in    den    tibrigcn   biof^'ia- 
phischen   Ski//en    diescr    ersten    Liefe- 
rung   ist    das     Charaktcristisciie    mcJsi 
scharf  erfasst. 

Forniin>chtiiz  roii  (iiorj^  Hirth.  Kinc 
Quelle  der  Belehrun^r  niul  AnrejjunjJ 
fiir  Kilnsller  und  Gewcrbeirciberidc. 
Aus  den  Werken  der  beslcn  Mcjstir 
allcr  Zeiten  und  V<>lker.  22.  Jahrgan,:;. 
Heft  I.  (Preis  1.25  M.)  Munchcn 
und  Leipzig.    (G.  Hirths  Kunstverkigi 

Der  "  Formenschal/  '  hat  aui  das 
deutsche  Kunstgewerbe  seit  Jahren 
einen  erziehliclien  EinHuss  geiibl,  man 
solltc  meinen,  das  Kunstgewerbe  musste 
nach  solchen  Yorlagen  mehr  leisien  aN 
es  in  Wirklichkcit  tiit.  Auch  in  der 
ersten  Lieferung  des  neuen  Jahrgangs 
ist  die  Auswahl  mit  sicherem  (ieschmadi 
getroffen,  die  Reproduktion  durch wejl  ' 
vor/iiirlich    gelungen.       Bemerkcnswcri 


LITTERARISCHES   BULLETIN. 


901 


sind  die  '*  Modernen  Arbeiten  in  Kupfcr  " 
von  //,  Kdhicr  uiid  J.  Wiiihanit  (Mun- 
clicn).  Die  Ornamentik  ist  orij^inell  und 
der  Form  dcr  Gefiisse  nicbt  un^^lucklich 
ungepasst.  iialten  sie  den  Vcrgleich 
rait  m'xlernen  englischen  Arbeiten  niclit 
aus,  so  maclit  sicli  in  ihnen  endlicti  doch 
cin  selbstandiges  Vorgehcn  beinerklicii. 
Leidcr  lasst  sicli  aus  dcr  Reproduktion 
iiichl  beurteilen,  wie  weit  die  Anwen- 
dung  sell  warmer  Oxydtune  und  rulcn 
I^cks  dcr  Farbenwirkunjj  dicnt. 

F ra licit ii'i lie.  Erziihlii itg  ron  Max  Diryci. 
/wcitc  Auflage.  Stuttgart.  (Fr.  Froun- 
nans  Vorl.ii^.     Prcis  2  M.) 

Max  Dreycr  gehort  i\x  den  Autorcn 
auf  die  man  fur  die  Kntwicklung  des 
modernen  Dramas  /iihlt,  Seine  Erziili- 
lungen  "Frauen\ville,"die  eben  in  /weiter 
Auflage  vorlicgcn  und  bereils  189J  ver- 
offcntliciU  waren,  und  soniit  /.eitlidi  vor 
seine  dramatischen  Krfolgc  fallen,  /eigen 
Ixrreits  ilie  Vorziige.  die  man  an  ihm 
keniit.  Kin  bcharfer  Blick  fiir  charak- 
leristische  Eigentumlichkeitcn.  ein  gut- 
miitiger.  etssas  sproder  Humor,  vor allem 
woltuende  Urspriinj^lichkeit.  Die  Ge- 
stalten  wollen  sich  noch  nicht  recht  frei 
bcwegcn,  man  spiirt  hinter  ihnen  den 
Autor.  der  sie  sanft  am  Gangelbande 
seiner  Laune  fuhrt  ;  dafur  sind  sie  aber 
auch  ohiic  Schontuerei  gezeichnet  und 
in  ihren  Kmpiindungen  natiirlicli  und 
walir.  \ic  ist  irgcndwelclie  iiussere  Span- 
nung  durcli  kiiiibtliche  Mittel  angestrebt. 
Drcyer  will  eben  nur,  dass  man  sicli  in 
(Jescllschafl  seiner  Mensclicn  wolfiihlt. 
Tnd  er  hat  den  Ton  f^ctroffen.  in  deni 
der  Mcnseh  ohnc  allc  Gefiihls/imper- 
lichkcit  /inn  Menschen  spricht, 

I\in>i  I  iuiitiikhliitttr.  Ttiiiihinlntti/zcitli' 
nitnt^iii  uiis  liir  /tit  </«n  j^iosscu 
Krit'f^is,  dtr  IkUt^iruti^  iiini  dcr  Cow- 
inline.  Von  Wilhclm  Cahn.  2  Bande. 
Berlin  1898.  (F.  Fontane  &  Co. 
Preis  8  M .) 

Cahn  hat  als  Attache  der  Schwei/er 
Gesandtschaft  die  Krisen  mitdurchlebl, 
die  dcr  dcutsch-franz(»r»ische  Krieg  in 
Paris  hervorgerufen  hat.  Ein  nach- 
denklicher  Bctrachter  hat  cr  niit  utienem 
Auge  und  ancrkennenswcrtcr  rnpartei- 
lichkcit  die  Vorgiinge,  sowcil  sic  in  das 
Bcreich  seiner  cigencn   Krlcb»iis  lielcn. 


fcfitgehaUen  und  damit  die  Memoiren- 
litteratur  der  Zeit  um  ein  Werk  be- 
reichert,  das  vielfach  auf  Quellenwerl 
Anspruch  erheben  kaim.  Dabei  ist  ihm 
ein  kluger  Skepticismus  in  Schilderung 
der  maassgebenden  Personlichkeiten  /u 
statten  gekommen,  und  ein  behaglicher 
Humor  rlickt  die  Geschehnissc  in  ein 
eignes  Licht.  Heut,  da  man  den  Com- 
muneunruhen  der  Kriegszeit  auch  in 
Frankreich  mit  grosberer  rnparteilich* 
keit  gcgeniibcrsteht,  wird  Cuhns  Buch 
vielleicht  dazu  bcitragen,  die  Anschau- 
ungen  hiiben  und  driiben  zu  klaren. 

Die  Attribute  dcr  Hcili/*cn.  Ein  alpha^ 
hetischcs  Wtchsclila^cbnch  zum  Ktv. 
stiindnis  christlicher  Kunstwerke.  Von 
Dr.  R,  Pticidcrcr.  Ulm  1889.  (Hcin- 
rich   Kerler.     Prcis  3  M.) 

FiirGelehrte,  Geistliche,  KiinsMer  und 
Kunstfreunde  ein  willkommener  Bc- 
gleitcr  durch  Kirche  und  Sammlungen 
mit  Schatzen  mittelalterlicher  Kunst. 
\\*ic  oft  fragt  sich  der  Wanderer  nach 
der  Bedeutung  dieses  und  jenes  Gerits, 
welches  der  Heilige  in  Handen  tr^gt, 
und  das  Buchlein  gibt  ihm  Auskunft,  er- 
moglicht  ihm,  aus  den  Attributen  die  dar- 
gestellte  Figur  zu  erkennen  und  so  erst 
zum  verstandnisvollen  Genuss  des  Bild- 
werks  und  seiner  Symbolik  zu  gelangen. 
Jahresangaben,  soweit  sie  auf  histo- 
rische  Treue  rechncn  konnen,  ver- 
mchrcn  das  Intcressc.  Die  neucstcn 
Studienauf  diescm  Gebiet  dcr  Kunst  sind 
zu  den  Ergebnisscn  iriihcrcn  SannncK 
Heisscs  hinzugctra;,'cn,  so  dass  das  Bucti 
auf  cine  gcwisscVollslandigkeit  Anspruch 
erheben  darf .  Wer  sich  iibcr  tlic  mclir  als 
/«///>i  //</'•  Hciligen,"  rcsp.  '*  Seligen,"  der 
katholischen  Kirche  praktisch  und  schnell 
oricnlircii  will,  wiril  das  Wcrk  gem  zur 
Hand  nchmen. — J. 

Vldands  Ta^cbneh.  Aus  des  Diehtcrs 
handschtiftlichcm  Xachiass  hcrausgc- 
^cbcn  von  1.  Hartmann.  Stuttgart 
1898.  (J.  G.  Cottasche  Buchhand- 
lung  Nachf.) 

Der  schwabischc  Schillcrvcrein,  der 
den  Xachiass  Uhland*^  in  Verwaltung 
hat,  bringt  aus  diescm  Erhschaiy.  jetzl 
der  Ocffenilichkcit  cin  wichtigcs  Doku- 
ment  des  Diehtcrs,  ^ein  Tairebuch. 
Schon    Nfin    iiuxscrer    Kiiidruck    ist    be- 


002 


COSMOPOLIS. 


/eichnend  fiir  das  Wescn  I'hlands. 
Acusscrstc  Wortkiuipphcit,  Kargheit 
fallen  auf  :  ein  pcinlicli  ^jcwissenhafter 
Sinn  ;  burcaukratisch  gcnaue  Tagescin- 
tcilung.  Die  Uhlandphilologie  findct 
hier  beachtensweiic  Markirungen  und 
Wcgweiser.  So  tn>cken  und  niichtern 
diese  Seitcn  abc;  hei  fliichligem  Durcli- 
bl^tern  scl.cincn,  so  bcrgen  sic  doch 
viclc  Kci^c.  Es  sind  sprodc  >Ceilen,  aber, 
licbevoll  gclcscn.  tangen  sic  an  /u  toncn 
mid  /u  klingcn.  Ja,  buiilc  Kriihlings- 
i^lunicn  und  Waldcrdbccren  spricssen 
/wischen  ilmcn  aul.  Her  lyrischc  Sinn 
dcs  Dichtc^^.  seine  wcichc  Empfiing- 
lichkcit.  die  cr  so  sorglich  in  den  Acus.se- 
rungen.">cines  utYenllichen  Lebensgehciin 
liiclt.  leuchtct  hier  /wiftchen  Aklen. 
Bilcbern  und  Papier  siegreich  auf.  Und 
ein  nienschlieb  inleressantes  Schauspiei 
hi'"  fiir  den  Sehenden,  die  xerseliiedcnen 
Wescnbeilcn  in  cincr  Person  in  ihrer 
Icbendigcn  \Virk!>anikeil  neben  einandcr 
anteilsvoll  /ii  spiiren.  —  P. 

Bl.l    1)1  K   Keuaction   KIN<.I.<iAM.KNL 

Mucin  K  : 
iJ<  Amtci*^:  Lttbr  umi  (iymnasdk.    Ko 
man      Stuttgart  i897-     Veiiag  T.  Eu^el- 
horn.     Preiso,5oM.) 

C".  /.  Cutclitfi  Hytn  :  i'tatuuichn.  Ro- 
man. Stuttgart  1897.  (Verlag  T.  Engel- 
horn.     Preis  0,50  M.) 

H  ein  rich  Fhcdjitttf*  :  Der  Kanipf  um 
die  Voibci  rschaft.  i8ss-i^6^>  Zweitcr 
Bantl.  Mil  6  Karten.  Sluttgarl  i«(>«. 
(C')tta.) 


Hans  Hopmann  :  Voti  Friihltu^  *u 
h'n'ihJinf^.  Bilder  und  Skizzen.  Drittc 
Auflage.  Berlin  1898.  (Verlag  vo»: 
Gcbiiider  Paetel.     Preis  5  M.) 

Ccsort  dc  LoHis  :  Au/*it>to  PUiU... 
Hallcnnundc.  Dalla  nuova  antologia 
Scrie  IV.  Roma  i^)/.  (Koriuiiii  EC. 
Tipogiafi  del  Senato. ) 

Richard  Lipsins  :  GUiubtn  tntd  H*j\5<rr 
Ausgewahlte  Yortragc  und  Aufsai/c. 
Berlin  1807.     (Wrlag  Schwctschkc.' 

Max  Lessen :  fhr  Kolnt^hc  k'ruj: 
11.  Band.  Miincbcn  und  lAripzig  i>^'; 
ii.  Franz.) 

Ench  Marcks  .  A'<j/>t  r  W'tlhchn  I. 
Leipzig  iJ<07.  (Verla.v*  Hunker  und 
Humbiol.) 

Max  Sordaii  :  l)rohtttii>chlacht.  H- 
niau.  Zwci  Bande.  Berlin  i8.>J^.  tVerlag 
C\irl  Dunker.     Preis  12  M.) 

Hclgc   Rode  :     KonigS!»<.)hne.       Schau- 
.^picl   in    4  Akten.       Leipzig    1^*98.    fG 
J.    Gf)schenschc  Verlagsbucbhandlung 
Preis  1.80  M.) 

Osstp  Sch u bin  :  I'liUr  l.'n^.  Koman in 
.^  Biichem.  Berlin  189S.  5  Auflagc 
(Verlag  Gebruder  Paetel.     Preis  6  M.) 

Karl  Strcckcr  :  Fruhthati.  Essavs  und 
Skiz/.en.    Berlin  1898.  (Verlag  H.  SchOn- 

feld.) 

Lion  di  J iiiscaii  :  Vcrgessene  Hlichi. 
Roman.  Stuttgart  1897.  (Verlag  T, 
Enj(Clhorn.     Preis  0,50  M.) 


DIE  THEATER  DES  MONATS. 


BERLIN. 

Ini  Dkittschkx  Theatkk  bestinunte 
das  bevorstchende  .Vusscbeiden  von  A^ncs 
Sornui  den  Spielplan.  In  den  Rollen, 
die  sic  zulet/t  getroffen,  trat  sie  vvieder- 
lioll  aiil  :  neben  Siidermanns  '■Johan- 
nes' w  urden  Hauphnanns  '*  Vcrsunkcne 
(ilocke  und  "  Weber,"  Hallos  **  Mutter 
Eidc  '  und  Kuldas  '*  Madehentraum" 
wicderholl.  Eine  lOrstautliihiung  braehte 
lias  Deiilsehe  Theater  nicht. 

Ini       KoMGUcUKX       SCIIAUSHIELIIAIJS 

gelangte  "  Dcr  Bnr^raf"  von  jMtfJf  zur 
erstcn  Auffiilirung.  Es  isl  ein  histori- 
sclies  Spcklakelsliick  mit    ^^utgemeinten 


patriotischen  Expectorationen,  in  deJicii 
sich  die  V'ergangcnheit  im  Licht  unscrcr 
herrlichcn  Gegenwarl  spiegelt ;  das 
Gan/e  nicht  ohne  den  Kciz  unfreiwilltger 
Naivetal.  "Mutter  Thiclc "  von  AdoU 
I/.Xrrongcerlebtecinij^Wiederholungci! 
Neben  Goet!ie>  "  Egniont  '  kam  Shakc- 
speares  "  Corioian  "  und  Konig  Ix-ai 
zur  Auffiihrung. 

Das  Lessixgtheatku  braehte  cuic 
Novital  von  Karluris  "  iJab  grobc  Hcnui,' 
in  der  soziale  Probleme  ziemlich  platt  zu 
wenig  komischcii  Wirkungen  ausge- 
niiinzl  hind.  Burckhards  **  Das  Kathcri' 
erzieite   im   Bkkmnkr   Theater  guteii 


LITTERARISCHES   BULLETIN. 


903 


Krfolg,  wic  es  bcrcits  in  Wicn  mit  Erfolg 
iiber  die  Hiihiic  gcgaiigen  ist.  Burck- 
liard  hat  die  gliickliche  Fahigkeit,  Ge- 
stalteii  aiis  deiu  V'olk  mit  wcnig  Strichen 
sicher  liiiizustellen  ;  er  versagt  in  konse- 
mienter  Durchfuhruiig  der  Handlung. 

Iin  Thaliatheater  wurde  '' Dus  fhtw 
Irhctto"  von  Thcodor  Hcrzl  erfolgreich 
aufgefiihrt.  Bs  ist  ein  Thcscnstuck,  in 
clem  die  These  nicht  ohne  Geist  ver- 
fochten  wird,  dass  das  Judcntuin  sicli 


nicmals  den  Volksgcnossen  seiner  neucn 
Heiniat  anpassen  k(5nne,  dass  die  un- 
sichtbaren  Mauern  des  neuen  Ghettos 
nicht  /u  iiberwinden  seicn.  Es  ist  das 
die  Erziehung  zu  Herzls  zionistischem 
Programm,  die  dramatische  Vorredc 
zum  Griindungsprospekt  des  Judenstaats 
in  Palastina. 

Das  Repertoire  der  iibrigen  Theater 
war  in  Iftterarischer  Be/.iehung  nicht 
von  Belang. 


KKVUE    dp:k    rp:vi;kn. 


Die  Dcuhchi  Rtvuc  (Fcbruar)  enl- 
halt  einen  Autsat/  de>  Admirals  V.  H. 
Colomb  iibcr  die  EntKicklun^  des  Sct- 
kriif^s.  Colomb  schilderl  den  Einfluss, 
den  der  Sporn  am  Kricgsschiff  aiit  die 
rnigestaitung  der  SchitYstypcn  gchabt 
hat.  Man  legte  ihm  eine  Zeit  lang  ent- 
scheidende  l^edeulung  bci  und  ging  de-- 
lialb  zu  einer  Krontarmirung  iibcr.  Ver- 
>uche.  die  .uigcbtclll  wiirden,  smvic  die 
lirgcbnissc  dor  Schlacht  von  Yalu  /eig- 
ten,  dass  c>  lin  Lcichtes  isi,  dem  Spurn- 
angriff  aus>.u\veichen,  und  >>o  kehrtc 
man  wieder  zur  Armirungder  Breitseiten 
/uriick,  Oder  vielmehr  :  man  machte  ein 
Compromiss.  Aehnlich  wie  mit  dem 
Sporn  geht  es  mit  dem  Torpedoschitf. 
Die  Ansichlen  schwanken,  wie  weit  das 
Schlachtschiff  dem  Torpedoboot  gegen- 
iiber  sich  behaupten  kann.  Colomb  selbst 
neigt  sich  der  Ansicht  zu,  dass  ein  Tor- 
pedoboot bei  Tage  unmoglich  an  ein  Fan- 
zcrschiff,  das  mit  einer  Maximkanone 
vcrsehen  ist,  herankommen  kann.  Aber 
die  Beurteilung  der  verschiedenen 
Schiffstypen  isteben  dauernden  Schwan- 
kungen  ausgesetzt,  schon  durch  die 
Fortschriltc,  die  unablassig  sowol  in 
Armirung  als  auch  in  Widerstands- 
f^higkeit  der  Panzerplatten  gemacht 
werden.  Colomb  schliesst  daraus,  dass 
ein  Land  vor  alien  Dingen  sich  daruber 
klar  werden  miisse,  ob  es  vor/ngsweise 
an  Kustenverteidigung  oder  Kriegfvih- 
rung  im  offnen  Meer  /u  denken  habe  ; 
iedenfalls  scheint  ihm  bei  der  augen- 
blicklich  herrschenden  Unklarheit  iiber 
die  Wirksamkeit  der  Schiffstypen  der 
Augenblick  /u  starker  Flottenvermeh- 
rununiclu  gekommen. —  Klar  und  orien- 
lireiid  legl  Sir  Richard  Temple  die   cn}^- 


lisclu  Ansicht  ubcr  licn  Fcnicn  Oskti 
clar,  indem  er  vor  allem  die  Bedeutung 
Indiens  fiir  England  kenn/eichnet  und 
ilic  Gefahren  — ^die  iibrigens  kaum  be- 
stehen  —  darlegi,  die  eine  Autteilung 
Chinas  herbeifiihren  wiirde.  Wjihrend 
M.  von  Brandt  unter  dem  Titel  Wv 
nritiinniir  die  Trsachen  der  Verstim- 
inung  vcegcn  England  hauptsachlich 
aus  der  "  Erzieherrolle,"  in  der  sich  die 
englische  Presse  oder  duch  ein  Teil 
derselben  den  kontincntalen  Landern 
gegeniiber  gcfallt,  herleilet.  —  Eitini 
Rcsuch  bci  Fratifois  Cof'f'tr  schildert 
Bruno  Petzold.  Coppee  bekannt6  dem 
Interviewer  im  letzten  Jahre  nach  seiner 
schweren  Krankheit  .fe'anz  zu  seinem 
Kinderglauben,  oder  doch  zu  den  Idea- 
len  seiner  Kindheit  zuriickgekehrt  zu 
sein.  Er  beurteilt  die  franzosische  Ge- 
«<ellschaft  sehr  pcssimistisch  als  ganzlich 
dekadent  und  meint,  dass  Frankreich 
einer  Revolution  entgegentreibe.  *'  L'n 
temps  de  scepticisme,  de  secheresse  et 
de  depravation  generale." 

In  der  \alion  (15.  Januar  bis  15.  Fe- 
bruar)  vcroffentlicht  Ludwig  Bamberger 
eine  Studie  zur  nissisilicn  }f fin zir form. 
Er  weist  daraui  hin,  dass  Russland  tal- 
siichlich  zum  Monometallismus  iiberge- 
gangen  sei  und  das  Silber  nach  dem 
jiingsten  Bericht  des  russischen  Finanz- 
ministers  nur  noch  als  Hilfsgeld  zu 
fungiren  habe.  Schwierijr  mag  es  uns 
sein,  das  russische  Volk,  das  an  Papier- 
geld  gewohnt  ist,  an  die  Metallmiinze 
umzugewohnen,  ;  dieser  Schwierigkeit 
aber  steht  die  Tatsache  jregeniibcr,  dass 
die  bereits  ins  Publikuni  iibergegangenen 
Guldmunzen  die  Sunnne  von  i^^  Mil- 
lionen   Rubel  erreichlen,  ein   Mehr  von 


904 


COSMOPOLIS. 


Ii7i  Millionen  gegen  das  Vorjahr. — 
Angcbichts  der  bevorslclienden  Kcichs- 
tagbwahlen  priifl  Theodor  Barth  die 
Wahiparolcn,  die  den  verschicdencii 
Paiicien  zu  Gebole  slehen  und  komml 
dabei  zu  einem  sehr  negativcn  Rcsultat. 
Der  Liberalis.nus  ist  in  sich  uneinig, 
I  rotzdem  er  am  chesten  in  Bek&mpfung 
des  Junkertunis  und  de^  Agrarieruber- 
inuts  die  Wahlparole  fandc  ;  der  Sozia- 
lismus  hat  in  dem  Maasse  an  Bedeutung 
zugenoinnien,  in  dem  der  Glaubc  an 
den  Kollcctivismus  abgenommen  hat. — 
l.'eber  das  Einfnhivcrhot  am crikaui seller 
Acpfel  uach  DentscUland  schrcibt  M. 
Broemel  cinen  launigen  Aufsatz,  in  dem 
abcr  audi  die  einheimischen  Schadlinge 
in  Menschengestalt  ernst  krilisirt  wer- 
den.  Die  Ergebnisse  der  Unlersuchung 
sind  fiir  die  Leistungen  des  deutschen 
Obstbaus  nicht  gerade  schmeichelhaft. — 
Uebcr  Oabricl  Moitoii  ittiil  lieii  tranu^- 
siselieti  I  deal  ism  us  vcroffcntlicht  Mal- 
Nvida  von  Meysenbug  cine  mit  grosser 
r^iebc  geschricbene  Skizzc.  Sic  cutwirll 
eln  Lebensbild  Monods  in  koappen 
IJmrissen,  und  deutet  darauf,  wie  die 
Stellungnahme  dieses  Manneb  vor  allem 
geeignet  sei.  den  Dreyfussprozess  in 
betriibsamem  Licht  erscheinen  zu  lassen. 
Auch  Monod  gehori  zu  denen,  die  die 
allgcmeine  Lage'  in  Krankreich  sehr 
ernst  auffassen.  Er  spricht  von  ciner 
Erschlaffung  und  Erniedrigung  in  den 
CicivStern  und  Herzen,  in  den  Silten  des 
Einzehien  und  ini  offentlichcn  Leben, 
und  weini  er  so  spricht,  wird  man  sich 
audi  in  Krankreich  bewusst  sein,  dass 
seine  Worle  weder  fur  ihn  selbst,  noch 
(i\v  cVw,  denen  sic  geltcn,  leicht  ins  CJe- 
wicht  taiien.  —  Interessant  ist  einc 
Studie  Kanschohs  iiber  Miefnl  lireals 
**  Essai  tie  Semautiqtie.  KanscholY  stelh 
sich  durchaus  anerkennend  der  Lcistung 
des  fran/osischcn  Gelchrtcn  gegeniibcr 
—  und  ein  Aufsatz  von  Felix  Poppenberg 
iiber  Pierre  Lot  is  "  Figures  et  chases  qui 
pa^saient,"  das  er  ein  Buch  des  Hcrzens 
ncnnt  ;  er  meint,  dass  Ix)tis  "  Hriider  im 
Gcflihl "  darin  lescn  werden,  wie  in 
ihrer  eigenen  Seele.  Ueber  eine  nttie 
Keals-Biographie  von  Marie  Gothein 
berichlet  J.  \'.  Widmann ;  Uhxjr  die 
Schopcuhnuer  -  liiographie  von  Eduard 
(friescl^ach   sdircihl   Professr>i    HDlin. — 


Das  Missverhaltnis,  das  zwischen  dem 
Verhalten  der  engUschen  Pnssc  und  deiii 
der  englischcn  Rcgirun^;  bcsteht,  wird 
in  der  "  Politischen  Wochenuberbicht " 
(No.  20)  sehr  ernst  kritisirt.  Es  hdsst 
da :  "  Bei  solcher  Sachlaf^c  kann  die 
Zukunft  nicht  zweifelhaft  sein  ;  ent- 
weder  es  gelingt  England  seine  eigencii 
Krafte  durch  einen  Anschluss  an  anderc 
Krafte  zu  starken,  <xler  England  wird 
das,  was  es  seit  Jahren  erlebt  liat,  weitei 
erieben  ;  es  wird  bald  hier,  bald  dort  gc- 
zwungen  sein  Anspriiche  aufzugeben, 
die  ein  paar  Jahrc  oder  auch  Monatc 
friiher  als  solche  betrachiet  wurden,  die 
unter  keinen  Umstandcii  falircn  gela&>en 
werden  dfi»*fen." 

Die  Deutsche  Rundschau   cnthait  einc 
eingehende  Studie  Lady  Blcniicrha>seti> 
fiber  Gahriele  d'Anriiiiizio.     l)er  Artikcl 
schliesst  mit  einem  Hinwcis  auf  Foga/- 
zaro,  *•  Italiens   grOssleii    Koinan^chriU- 
stdler,"  und  das  ist  fiir  die  Stellung  I^dy 
Hieinicrirasselts   d'Annuiizio    gcgeniibt' 
l>ezeichnend.  Sie  sucht  der  Kunst  seiner 
Sprachbeherrschung.  dem  musikalischai 
Wolklang  seiner   Rede,   seiner  farbeo- 
glanzenden  Diction  gerecht  zu  werden. 
—  bie  steht  beinem  kiinbtlerischen  Wollen 
kuhl   gegeniiber.     Ihre    e4hischen   An- 
sichten  trennen  sic  von  ihm.     Und  wens 
die   Entwickiung.    die    d'Annunzio   ak 
Lyrikcr    durchgemacht     hat.    ihr   cine 
Biirgschaft   fiir    seine    dichterische  Za- 
kunfl   bietet,  so   steht    ^ie   di.K:h    bcinm 
Komanen,    die     sie    sorglich     anal>'siTt. 
durchaus  ablehnend  gegeniibcr.  "  Weiiu 
der  Furpur  dieses  Stils  nichl  mehrda- 
Meer  und  die  Landscliaft/*  sagl  sie,  "  Jic 
Tempel  und  Ruinen  l>elcuchtct,  sondcni 
auf    menschliche    Schullcrn      /u    falkni 
konnnt,  dann  veriindert     sich    das  BiW 
und  unter  dem  konigliclien    Fallenwuri 
bewegen     sich     Bcttlergcstallen."     Sic 
nennt  seine  Menschen  an  anderer  Steilc 
allesamt     "  Snobs."  —  Sehr    schon   isi 
auch  der  zweite  Teil  von  Julius  Roden- 
bergs  Erittneruugen  aus  der  yiigendzdt, 
das  Bild,  das  er  von  Knianuel  Dcutscl« 
entwirft.     Mit  dem    ganzen  Zauber  ju- 
gendiicher  Idealitat  ist  die  Freundschaft 
wiedererstanden,  die  ihn  mit  dcra  jungen 
jCidischen     GeJehrten     vcrband.      Man 
erlebt  das  Erscheinen  der  Talmudstudie 
in   der    "  Quarterly    Review  "    mil   und 


LITTERARISCHES   BCLLETIX. 


905 


meint  dabei  zu  sit/en,  wic  er  in  dein 
bescheidenen  GeIolirtenzim:iicr  seine 
Arbeit  dciu  Freuiide  zum  crsten  Mai 
vorliest.  His  /m  scinem  friihen  Tode 
liihrcn  dicse  "  Krinneningcn,"  die  in 
jujjrndlidi  iibcrsprudelnde  Mricfe  ein- 
j^etliX'hten  sind.  —  M.  von  Brandt  cr- 
;^reift  das  Wort  zu  der  i.eucn  deutsclicn 
Eni'irhiiuif  Kiaotschau.  Er  mcinle,  der 
Hafen  sei  durcliaus  j^eei^net,  ein  nord- 
liches  Hongkong  zu  wcrden  und  ver- 
spricht  sich  von  einer  Eisenbahnlinie  zu- 
nJichsl  nach  Weihsien  grosse  Vorleile  fiir 
den  Handel.  Er  fordert,  dass  Kiaotschau 
ein  Freihafen  fiir  alle  Xationen  werde. 

Die  Pnnssischcn  JahrhftcUcr  bicten 
cinen  rciclihaltigen  Aufsatz  Dciifschiantf 
itiui  (icr  Wdtmarkt  von  Paul  Voigt. 
Xach  eJncr  geschichtllchen  Untcrsuch- 
ung,  deren  Ergebnis  in  dein  Satze  gip- 
felt,  dass  Dcutschland  am  Anfang  des 
19.  Jahrhunderts  eine  agrarischc  Be- 
vfilkerung  von  etwa  80  Prozent,  am 
Endc  des  Jahrhunderts  von  wenijr  mehr 
als  30  Pro/ent  aufweist,  stellt  Voigt  die 
Tatsache  fast,  dass  es  kaum  noch  einen 
wichtigen  Zweig  der  deutschen  TTrpro- 
duktion  gibt,  desscn  Ertragnisse  fiir 
den  Bedarf  der  gestiegenen  Bevuikerung 
ausreichen.  Aus  einer  genauen  Stali- 
stik  samtlicher  landwirtsciiafllichcr  Pro- 
dukte  ergibt  sich,  dass  die  vcrschiedencn 
Zweii^e  der  Landwirtscliaft.  eiuschiiess- 
lich  der  Korslwirlsch.U't,  im  let/ten  Jahrc 
einen  Einl'iihri:>edarf  von  boinahc  1  Mii- 
liarden  Mark  avU'weisen,  und  das,  irolz 
holier  Schutzzolie  und  gesteigertcr  Er- 
tragsfaliigkcii  iler  cinheimi^^clien  Land- 
wirlschaft,  Er  sciiHessl  daraus,  da-is  (he 
Eandwirtschafl  unter  alien  rmstandcn 
gefordert  werden  niiisse.  da  sonst  die 
Cietahr  vorhandcn  ncI.  dass  sic  gan/ 
versagv.  Die  Bcdingungcii  des  dcui- 
schen  Exjv)rts  sicht  Voigt  in  wcnig  ro- 
^^igem  Lichtc,  jedcnfalls  sind  sic  seiner 
Ansichl  nach  von  der  Wcltwirtschaft 
abhiingig,  so  dass  die  Aufrechlerhaltun^' 
und  Starkung  unsrer  wirtschatllichen 
Machtstellung  in  der  Welt  die  wich- 
tigste  Aufgabe  dcutschcr  Politik  isi. — 
Die  Bcdiitiuu^  SchvUiit^s  fiir  luisrc  Ztit 
untersuchl  Arthur  Drews  im  Anschluss 
an  Eduard  von  Hartmanns  neues  Buch 
iib>er  Schellings  philosophisches  System. 
Vfi'  riigt  das  stetc  Zuriickgehen  auf  Kant, 


dessen  Philosophic  er  fiir  die  heutigc 
Zeit  als  wenig  fruchtbar  in  positiver 
Hinsicht  erachtet,  und  meint,  dass  es 
darauf  ankomme.  den  zerrisscnen  Kaden 
nilt  der  n(xh  kantischen  Spckulation 
eine?  Schelling  und  Hegel  wicder  an/u- 
knlipfe-i,  um  dadurch  i'lber  diese  selbsl 
hinauszukommen.  —  Interessant  ist  die 
Kekonstruklion  des  Dihom-Ludis  von 
Ludwig  Riess. 

In  der  Znkiinft  vcrr>tYcnllicht  Wagner 
eingehendc  Studien  iiber  die  Stiucr- 
htlastntiif  im  ticntschcit  Reich  im  Ver- 
gleich  mit  andern  Liindern.  Das  Resul- 
tat  seiner  Untersuchungen  ist  ein  fiir 
Deutschland  durchaus  giinstiges  ;  e^ 
handelt  sich  seiner  Meinung  nach  da- 
rum,  einen  grossen  Teil  unsrer  Kraft  in 
Macht  umzusetzen.  Interessant  ist  eine 
Zusammenstellung,  die  er  gibt,  nach  dtr 
vor  der  Reform  i8t)4'c>5  von  den  auf- 
zubringenden  Steuern  auf  iWn  Kopf 
6.4  M.  tielen  —  gegen  5  M.  im  Etats- 
jahre  i8o7/(>H.  —  Interessant  ist  eine 
Studie  von  Lichtwark  :  Ihts  Vrteil  fiber 
Bflekliii.  Aehnlich  wic  Menzel  ist  es 
auch  B(*)cklin  ergangen  ;  seine  crsten 
Bildcr  standen  dcm  Verstandnis  des 
Publikutns  nahe  und  gcfielen.  Dann 
ging  er  eigne  Wege,  und  da  brach  der 
Entriistungsstunn  ios.  Er  gab  keine 
Historicn-  und  keine  (fcnrebilder,  an 
die  man  ge\v(")hnt  war  ;  seine  leuchtende 
Fnrbc  wirkte  aufdringlich  und  unwahr. 
Xeben  Bik'klinschen  I^ildern  verblassten 
die  ill  Ausstellungen  daucbenhangenden. 
Die  Kritik  tat  ilni  ab.  er  fand  wcdcr 
Kiiufer  noch  Aussteller  (ausscr  (iurlitt). 
Vm\  dann  seit  iS()0  mil  einem  Male  der 
Tmschla;^,  der  Bocklins  Ansehn  aui's 
Hr>chste  stcigerle.  sein  Werk  in  den 
Mittelpunkt  deutschcr  Kunst  riickle  Mit 
Kecht  schliesst  IJchtwark  aus  diesen 
Wirnmgen,  dass  das  originelle  I'ltcil 
ebcnso  sellcn  ist  wic  die  originelle  Pro- 
duktion. — Zu  der  Erwerbung  Kiaotschaus 
(lurch  Deutschland  aussert  sich  Karl 
Peters.  Er  sieht  die  alleinige  Bedeu- 
tung  des  erworbenen  Hafens  darin,  dass 
er  deutschen  Schiffen  als  Kohlenstation 
dienen  wird  ;  in  wirtschaftlicher  Be- 
ziehung  legt  er  ihm  keine  rechte  Bedeu- 
tung  bei.  Die  Spannung  zwischen 
England  und  Deutschland  sieht  er  ernst, 
hoffentlich  /u  ernst,  an. 


9o6 


CCSMOPOLIS. 


In  dcr  Sciwn  Ihtitscluii  Rundsduui 
wird  die  Veroffentlichunfi  dcr  intercs- 
saiitcn  Bricti'  RUhnrd  Waf^mn  an  Emii 
Hakti  t(»rt^csct/t.  Wajiiicr  land  in 
lieckel  dcii  >ictreuesicn  Aiislu-Ifer.  Kat- 
jjeber  und  GeUUchaffer  in  den  Kampfcn 
am  das  Bavieulher  Fesisnicihau^.  ,Seine 
brief c  dm  chlauien  die  gan/.c  Sk.da  dcr 
Stiinniun>icn,  von  ausgclasscnslcr  PVcu- 
digkoit.  die  sich  in  Knillelver^cn  Lufi 
macht,  /u  ijanzlichcr  Xicdciiicschlajicn- 
hcit,  die  in  telegraph ibchen  Xoten  rcdct. 
Die  i^an/e  rrspriinglichkeit  in  Wagners 
Wcscn  kommt  in  diesen  Bricfen  zuni 
Ausdruck,  in  jedem  Aujjenblick  sclireibl 
er  iinn/.  wie  ihin  iinis  Her/  ist.  —  Sehr 
interessant  ist  einc  Studie  iiber  William 
Morris  iiini  die  EntnickluH^i  lics  nwdti- 
itcii  dckorativi'ti  Stils  in  Eni^Uind  von 
(reftrji  Swar/cnski.  Nichl  mil  rnrecht 
wird  Morris  in  den  Mittelpunkt  dcr  j^c- 
saniten  Hewej^nnj;  geslellt  ;  die  ein/el- 
nen  Klappen  seiner  Entwicklung  be- 
/eichnen  j^Ieich/eiti)^  die  Fortschritte  in 
der  Ausbildung  des  dekoraliven  Slils. 
Die  jijefiillten  Trteile  /eiij^en  vnn  teinem 
VcrstUndnis,  und  aueli  die  Kinfiiisse  der 


Bewegung  auf  Deuthchland  sind  richti^ 
gekennzeichnet. 

In  der  Fran  verotYentlichl  die  Herau^- 
geberin    Helcne    Lange    eineii    AufsaL? 
uber  die  (^litischi  GUichbcrcchtigung  (Ui 
Frau^n.    Im  Anschluss  an  ein  Buch  \oh 
Eli/a    Ichenhauscr.    da^    den    gleicher. 
Titel  lUhrt,  gibl  sie    in  knappen   /igei 
einen    Ueberblick    iiber   die    Bewegunj* 
um  das  politische  Wahlrecht  dcr  Frauen 
in  der  ganzcn  Weh.     Sie  stellt  test,  das^ 
die  Versuche    iibcrall    da,    wo  man  >it; 
praktisch  durchgefuhrl  hat,   von  vollcm 
Krfolgc  gekront  warcn.     Sie  citirl  u.  a. 
die  Erklarung  des  Staates  Color.ido.  in 
der  es  hcisst  :  "  Wir  Burger  des  Staatt< 
Cok)rado    wiinschen    als     Frcunde    dcr 
\Vahrheit  und  Gereciitijijkeit  un*icr  Zeu>;- 
nis  ab/ulcgen  iiber  den  Wert  des  Fraucn- 
wahlrechts.  Die  prophe/citen  Uebel  ^iiKi 
nichl  eingetrotfen.     Die  woltucnden  Er- 
tolgc   hingegeii   >ind    einj^etrotten   «KJer 
in  der   Entwiekhmg   begritfen."  —  Die 
Studien  iiber  die  cnccrhsttltiflcii   FraUiU 
in  Dintsihlitnd  vun  Henrictle   Fnrth  ui..'. 
iiber   (icorjiii    Eliots     Ethik    von     Fhilipp 
Arnslein  sjnd  benierkenswerl. 


Hinni\[^ihtr  :  F.  OhtM  \Ns. 


l.c  vcriuit :  F.  Ortm  \\s 


IN\VI\    bKOTHKHS,    PPINTKRS,   27.    PU-GklM   STREET.    LONDON*,    t.C. 


THE     MONEY     MARKETS. 


The  present  state  of  tension  in  Europe  generally,  and  between 
Spain  and  the  United  States  in  particular,  is  not  calculated  to 
increase  the  confidence  of  investors  or  speculators  on  either 
side  of  the  Atlantic,  and  the  present  scarceness  of  money  may 
be  directly  attributed  to  this  universal  feeling  of  uncertainty. 

LONDON. — Nearly  all  departments  of  the  Stock  Exchange 
are  lifeless.  West  Australians  have  gone  up  to  some  extent, 
but  South  Africans  remain  inactive.  The  falling  off  in  the 
traffic  receipts  of  Transvaal  railways  has  reacted  unfavourably 
on  Transvaal  securities  in  general.  We  are  glad  to  note  the 
somewhat  firmer  tone  of  American  railways. 

PARIS. — In  spite  of  the  anxiety  caused  by  the  Zola  trial, 
the  Paris  Bourse  manages  to  sustain  prices.  The  most  note- 
worthy event  we  have  to  record  is  the  recent  issue  of  bonds  by 
the  Compazine  ImpMale  des  Chemins  de  Fer  Eihiopiens.  As  this 
security  seems  to  promise  well  for  the  future,  we  will  give 
some  account  of  the  proposed  scheme  : — 

The  lines  undertaken  by  this  Company  are  to  be  divided 
into  three  sections,  (i)  From  Jibutil  to  Harrar ;  (2)  from 
Harrar  to  Entotto  ;  (3),  from  Entotto  to  Kaflfa  and  the  White 
Nile.  At  present  it  is  only  a  question  of  the  first  section. 
The  concession  has  been  granted  for  99  years,  the  lease 
running  from  the  date  on  which  the  railway  opens.  No  other 
railway  will  be  allowed  to  compete  either  on  the  coasts  of  the 
Indian  Ocean  or  of  the  Red  Sea  in  Ethiopia,  or  from  Ethiopia 
to  the  White  Nile.  Jibutil,  the  point  in  French  territory 
from  which  the  railw-ay  starts,  is  as  yet  only  in  process  of 
formation,  but  it  is  believed  that  the  railway  will  rapidlv 
develop  it.     The  port  there  is  deep  enough  for  large  vessels. 

The  principal  clauses  of  the  Ethiopian  concession  as 
accepted  by  the  French  Government  are  as  follow ; — 


2  COSMOPOLIS. 

(i)  The  Company  is  free  to  fix  the  tariff  for  merchandise  and  passenger 
transport,  provided  the  actual  rates  for  transport  by  caravan  be  not  ex- 
ceeded.   It  may  be  added  that  the  "  caravan  "  tariff  is  very  high. 

(2)  The  Company  has,  on  the  first  section  of  300  kilometres,  a  guarantee 
from  the  Ethiopian  Government,  of  the  interest  on  three  million  francs,  an 
equivalent,  that  is.  to  a  subsidy  of  10,000  francs  per  kilometre.  This 
guarantee  represents  about  one-third  more  than  the  sum  deemed  necessary 
to  pay  the  interest  due  on  and  the  redemption  of  the  bonds  now  to  be 
issued,  and  (together  with  the  share  capital  of  eight  million  francs)  to  cover 
the  expenses  of  construction  of  the  first  section — a  section  that  v^ill  bring, 
the  railway  into  the  centre  of  the  most  productive  region  of  Ethiopia. 
The  other  sections  will  be  developed  as  arrangements  are  made  for  special 
guarantees. 

(3)  The  guarantee  of  the  interest  for  the  first  section  will  be  met  by 
levying  a  tax  of  10  per  cent,  on  the  customs'  revenue  from  all  imported 
and  exported  merchandise  that  enters  Harrar  and  leaves  it  by  the  railway. 
This  tax  will  be  collected  on  French  territory*  at  Jibutil,  under  the  super- 
vision of  an  agent  of  the  French  Government,  nominated  by  the  Minister 
of  the  Colonies.  The  sums  collected  will  be  placed  in  a  French  banking 
establishment  under  the  control  and  appointment  of  the  French  Govern- 
ment. 

(4)  The  Ethiopian  Government  will  insure  that  all  goods  paying  transpoa 
rates  and  starting  from  Harrar  or  from  Jibutil  shall  be  carried  by 
rail. 

(5)  The  Ethiopian  Government  has  ceded  gratuitously  to  the  Company  all 
the  land  necessary  for  the  building  of  the  railway,  with  all  forests,  mines, 
and  water,  contained  therein.  The  width  of  the  ground  conceded  is  1,000 
metres,  while  that  of  the  ground  to  be  taken  by  the  line  itself  is  calculated 
at  fifteen.  The  rest  can  be  sold  or  put  into  cultivation  at  the  Companv's 
discretion. 

(6)  The  Company  will  be  exempt  from  all  customs'  duties  in  Ethiopia,  in 
so  far  as  materials  for  the  construction  of  the  ra'lwav  are  concerned. 

(7)  The  conditions  by  which  the  raihvay  is  to  become  State  property  on 
the  expiration  of  the  lease  stipulate  that  the  Government  must  purchase 
the  rolling  and  other  stock.  The  Company  has  signed  an  agreement  with 
French  contractors  for  the  construction  of  the  railway  within  the  delay 
specified  in  the  concession.  The  works  are  now  in  progress,  and  some  of 
the  material  for  construction  has  been  ordered. 

As  the  conditions  of  the  concession  have  been  based  on  the 
present,  ue.,  the  minimum,  traffic  returns  of  the  Empire,  these 
bonds  may  be  considered  a  first-class  investment.  Issued  at 
325  francs,  they  are  already  quoted  at  more  than  330. 

BERLIN. — The  Berlin  Bourse  shows  no  sign  of  improve- 
ment since  we  last  wrote.  The  weakness  of  the  Vienna 
market  has  caused  an  increase  of  sales,  and  prices  have  fallen 
still  lower  in  consequence.  Swiss  railways  have  not  yet 
recovered  fronri  their  down>yard  tendency. 


CHRONIQUE    DE   LA   MODE. 

Paris,  2^f&i^rier  1898. 
Nous    sommes  dans    une    p6riode    de    transition    pour  les 
chapeaux.     La  mode   d'hier    est    sur    son    declin,    celle   du 
printemps  se  dessine  a  peine  et  rien  de  d^finitif  n'est  encore 
arbor6. 

Ce  n'est  gufere  que  pour  la  Cote  d'Azur  que  nos  modistes 
travaillent  actuellement,  et  les  plus  joiis  modules  vont  se  faire 
admirer  sur  la  Promenade  des  Anglais  a  Nice  ou  dans  les 
jardins  du  Casino  de  Monte-Carlo. 

La  note  dominante  c'est  le  vaporeux  dans  tous  les  genres. 
Des  lignes  souples  mais  ind6cises  et  capricieuses — des  fleurs, 
beaucoup  de  fleurs,  et  parfois  de  la  plume. 

La  paille  disparait  sous  les  garnitures  et  I'avantage  r^el  de 
ces  formes  multiples  et  diverses  est  de  permettre  a  chaque 
femmede  choisir  celle  qui  convient  le  mieux  a  sa  physionomie. 

Mais,  gare  les  impairs  I  La  moindre  faute  de  gout  se 
souligne  d'une  fa^on  deplorable  et  le  ridicule  est  prfes  de 
I'extrfime  616gance. 

Pour  accompagner  ces  vaporeuses  frivolitds  qui  ornent  la 
tete  de  nos  elegantes  mondaines,  il  faut  une  toilette  de 
formes  impeccables. 

C'est  dire  que  toutes  celles  qui  sont  dans  la  note  juste  et 
n'offrent  a  I'oeil  que  des  lignes  harmonieusement  6tudi6es  sont 
sign6es  :  Paquin. 

De  plus  en  plus  les  jupes  prennent  I'aspect  d'une  corolle 
renvers6e. 

Trte  plates  du  haut,  trfes  collantes  devant  et  sur  les  hanches, 
elles  vont  s'^talant  dans  le  bas  en  ^ventail. 

Et  c'est  un  spectacle  d61icieux  que  celui  de  toutes  ces 
silhouettes  se  d^tachant  finement  sur  le  bleu  fonce  du  ciel  et 
de  la  mer. 

On  comprend  qu'il  faut  etre  un  veritable  artiste  pour 
connaitre  la  femme  et  savoir  I'habiller,  la  draper  suivant  chaque 
type  particulier,  sans  d6truire  r616gance  des  lignes  en  I'ac- 
centuant  au  contraire. 

Quels  d^licats  plaisirs  ne  devons-nous  pas  a  un  couturier 
de  g^nie.    Avec  Iqi  tout  est  joie  pour  les  yeux  | 


4  COSMOPOLIS. 

Qu'importe  si   par  son   habilet^  supreme   il    a  id^isi 
quelque  peu  d6guis6  la  v6rite  moins  parfaite  I 

Le   reve  et  rillusion   ne  sont-ils  pas  ce  qu'il   y  a  de 

cxqiiis  clans  la  vie  ? 

Baronne  Charley. 


Le  choix  d'une  poudrc  de  riz  est  une  des  legitimes  prtoccii-  +] 
p;itions    fenii nines.     Aussi    croyons-nous   repondre    au    d^sir 
des  lectrices  de  Cosmoholis  en  leur  indiquant  hi  poudre  de 
riz    "  Rejane  "    qu'elles  pourront  se  procurer  26,  rue   Cadet, 
Pari.s,    et    qu'elles    adopteront    definitivement    aprfes    I'avoir 


c'Nsivce. 


La  science  qui  renverse  les  lois  de  la  nature  en  faveur  dela 
coquetterie  ne  perinel  plus  aux  rides  d'apparaitre. — Vous  avci  .j 
iDujours  vingt  ans,  grace  au  Sachets  de  beaute  du  Dr  Dys. 

Kn  cniployant  pour  vos  ablutions  ces  prccteux  sachets 
prepares  par  M.  Darsy,  31,  rue  d'Anjou,  Paris,  vous  n'aurez 
jamais  a  subir  : 

des  ans  Tirreparable  outrage. 


Mains  de  duchesse,  arislocratiques  dans  leur  exquise  finesse 
et  leur  blancheur  de  lis.  Quel  plus  beau  titre  de  noblesse 
pour  la  temme  consciente  de  ses  charnies !  Et  combien 
facile  a  acquerir  avec  la  p.ite  des  Prelats  que  la  Parfutnerie 
Kxotiquf,  35,  rue  du  Ouatre-Septembre,  Paris,  tient  en  reserve 
pour  son  elegante  clientele  feminine,  toujours  en  quete  detout 
ce  qui  pent  augmenter  son  charme  enchanteur.  B.  C. 


LE    MEILLEUR   ALIMENT   DES   ENFANTS- 

Ponr  ];i  piiblicitc  nn:iiK-it'tv.  et  ia  iMihlicitc-  oitnniiTdale  dc  Cotmopolis  en 
Ki.incc.  ^":i(liv--ci  Ja  1' Argus  de  la  Presse,  14.  rue  DrouPt,  Parif 
(20'  annef  d'exi-Uiicc). 


MWifff  /ii'/f*  tkt    iMiikiiiuai'iAl   Sti4'-. 

t  Hyndmikfi.  M.  Jean  Jaiu- 
i«  fiuitik\keti  •  > 


pUnwut  i/i 

,  POTAPCNKO.     .     . 
DNT  KAMAROrSKY 
.  RADLOF        .    .     . 


Th»  Crown  Counolllor. 

The  r*9iui^  AsMdittlons  nf  Furup^r- 

Phlloxophy  Knd  Soleii' 


in  Important  New  Art 
by  Joseph  Pennell. 

:  WORK  OF  CHARLES  KEEWE 


II..i^>-: 


pL; 


Maiu  II,  1H98.  N'i>.  ^^1 

osmopolis 

Inttrnational  7^\ 


co;.  .  .- ,. 

VHm  to  ihB  IniiK  vf  frnRni 


I'Jtk  HbtilatuliNii.  witbllM    DiU'  Hu'ii 


I  ilii  (.intilcnant    NUiwU't 


XonDon : 
lTISHFU   UNWIN,  I'ATicKNflirrKi   Uini4)m 

SCIllli:  'rjl 


■"    -              q 

Bmform  buying  a  OfnUnnary  >v«   r/ta  *■■( 

THE  CENTURY  DIGTIONA 

1 

^  \ 


