UNIVERSITY 
OF  FLORIDA 
LIBRARIES 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/criticalbibliogrOOhatz 


A  Critical  Bibliography 
Of  The  New  Stylistics 


THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  NORTH  CAROLINA 
STUDIES  IN  COMPARATIVE  LITERATURE 


Editorial  Committee 

Werner  P.  Friederich 

Alfred  G.  Engstrom 

Lyman  A.  Cotten 


THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  NORTH  CAROLINA 
STUDIES  IN  COMPARATIVE  LITERATURE 


A  Critical  Bibliography 
Of  The  New  Stylistics 

APPLIED  TO  THE  ROMANCE  LITERATURES 

1900-1952 


by 


HELMUT  A.  HATZFELD 

Professor  of  Romance  Languages  and  Literatures 

The  Catholic  University  of  America 


CHAPEL  HILL 
NUMBER  FIVE  1953 

Reprinted  with  the  permission  of  The  University  of  North  Carolina  Studies 
in  Comparative  Literature  and  The  University  of  North  Carolina   Press 

JOHNSON  REPRINT  CORPORATION  JOHNSON  REPRINT  COMPANY  LIMITED 

111    Fifth  Avenue,  New  York,  N.Y.    10003  Berkeley  Square  House,  London,  W.  1 


Copyright  1952 
The  University  of  North  Carolina 


First  reprinting,  1966,  Johnson  Reprint  Corporation 
Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


,p  Table  of  Contents 

Preface  ix 

List  of  Abbreviations  xv 

Chapter  I.    The  Explanation  of  Texts  1 

A.  Educational  Literary  Art  Appreciation  1 

B.  Theoretical  Discussions  2 

C.  "Explication  de  textes"  in  Monographs  5 

D.  The  Scholarly  Approach  to  Stylistic  Interpretation  6 

E.  Extension  of  the  Method  to  the  Middle  Ages 8 

F.  Extension  to  Hermetic  Texts ...v 9 

G.  Italian   Methods   :.....:;.: 11 

Ii.  Spanish  and  Portuguese  Methods 13 

I.  Importance  for  Criticism  and  Literary  History  14 

Chapter  II.     Arts  of  Writing  and  Textbooks  on 

Stylistics    16 

A.  "Arts  d'ecrire"  16 

B.  Stylistics    17 

1.  French.    Spanish.     Portuguese 17 

2.  Rumanian  and  Italian  20 

C.  Appraisal  of  Details  of  the  Art  of  Writing   21 

D.  "Pastiches"    23 

E.  Collected  Style  Sketches  of  Contemporary  Authors  in 
France,  Italy  and  Spain  23 

Chapter  III.    Stylistic  Comparison  of  Texts  25 

A.  Different  Drafts  25 

B.  Sources     29 

C.  Stylistically  Related  Topics  34 

D.  Psychological  Similarities  and  Contrasts  reflected 

in  Style 36 

E.  Reconstruction  of  Lost  Texts  by  Stylistic  Criteria  39 

F.  Adaptations  and  Translations  40 

Chapter  IV.     The  Language  of  Individual  Authors  and 

Works      42 

Introduction    42 

A.  Earlier  and  Arbitrary  Attempts  at  Style  Investigation, 
mainly  in  France 44 

B.  The  German  School  around  Vossler  and  Spitzer 47 

C.  French  Studies  under  the  Influence  of  Bally  and 
Bruneau  ..  50 


vi  Table  of  Contents 

D.  German  Doctoral  Dissertations  on  Style 55 

E.  Spain  and  Portugal  57 

F.  Italian  Contributions  from  Bertoni  to  Falqui  and 
Devoto   65 

G.  The  Swiss  School  around  Th.  Spoerri 71 

H.  Descriptive  Style  Studies  in  Latvia,  Scandinavia, 

Rumania    73 

I.  The  Shift  from  Expression  to  Thought  75 

J.  From  Author  to  Single  Work  and  Literary  Group 78 

K.  The  Style  Sketch  80 

Chapter  V.    Style  Transcending  Language   (The  "Art" 

of  an  Author) 82 

A.  France   83 

1.  Middle  Ages 83 

2.  Sixteenth  and  Seventeenth  Centuries  87 

3.  Eighteenth  Century  91 

4.  Nineteenth  Century  92 

a     Empire,  Romanticism,  Early  Realism  92 

b     Symbolism  and  Naturalism  95 

5.  Twentieth   Century   99 

B.  Spain  and  Portugal 107 

1.  Middle  Ages  107 

2.  Renaissance  and  Baroque  109 

3.  Nineteenth  and  Twentieth  Centuries  117 

C.  Italy    124 

1.  Middle  Ages    124 

2.  Renaissance  and  Baroque  127 

3.  Nineteenth  and  Twentieth  Centuries 130 

Chapter  VI.    One  Single  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author 136 

A.  Rhythmical  and  Musical  Style  Problems 136 

B.  Allusion  and  Periphrasis  142 

C.  Repetition.    Transition.    Forms  of  Report.    Exag- 

geration.   Antithesis  142 

D.  Symbol.     Allegory.     Imagery.     Metaphor.     Epithet  146 

E.  Synaesthesia  and  Color  Vision  155 

F.  Description    157 

G.  Dynamism  and  Animation 163 

H.  Narrative  Devices  164 


Table  of  Contents  vii 

I.  Tenses  and  Moods 166 

J.  Stylistic  Forms  of  Humor 166 

Chapter  VII.    A  Stylistic  Device  across  the  Centuries 169 

A.  Stylistic  Implications  of  Rhythm  and  Musicality 169 

1.  Prose    169 

2.  Poetry    173 

B.  Stylistic  Repetition,  Enumeration  and  Adynaton  175 

C.  Symbolism.     Metaphor.    Allegory.     Epithet.     Image. 
Synaesthesia  176 

D.  Landscape  and  Portraiture 179 

E.  Speech  Styles  and  Stylistic  Aspects  of  Narration  182 

F.  Literary  Kinds  treated  Stylistically  187 

G.  Forms  of  Humor  189 

Chapter  VIII.    Stylistic   Motif  190 

A.  Mythological   Motifs   191 

B.  Modern  Nature  Motifs  193 

C.  Space  and  Time  Motifs 195 

D.  Life  and  Death  Motifs  197 

E.  Holiness  and  Sin  Motifs  198 

Chapter  IX.    History  of  Style  and  Epoch  Styles  201 

A.  History  of  Prose  201 

B.  History  of  Poetry  203 

C.  Epoch  Styles  204 

1.  Middle  Ages  204 

2.  Renaissance 207 

3.  Baroque  207 

4.  Rococo    211 

5.  Romanticism  211 

6.  Realism    212 

Chapter  X.    Idiomatology    215 

A.  Generalities  216 

B.  Language   Characterization   217 

1.  French  217 

2.  French  compared  to  German,  Italian  and  Spanish    221 

3.  Spanish  and  Arabic  223 

4.  Spanish  compared  to  Italian,  Rumanian,  Latin  224 

5.  Italian  compared  to  German  and  to  other 
Romance  Languages  and  Greek 225 


viii  Table  of  Contents 

6.  Portuguese    225 

7.  Rumanian  and  Rhetoromance  226 

8.  Latin  and  Romance  228 

C.  Idiomatic  Semantics 229 

1.  General  Observations   229 

2.  Stylistics  of  Accent,  Melody  and  Rhythm  of  the 
Sentence    230 

3.  Grammatical  Categories  treated  Stylistically  232 

a     Moods.     Tenses.    Aspects  232 

b     Article.     Diminutive.     Pronoun.     Adverb 235 

4.  Stylistics  of  the  Single  Word  and  the  Locution 236 

a     Word-Repetition  and  other  Word-Implications  236 
b     Phraseology  and  Metaphorism  236 

D.  Idiomatic   Onomatology    239 

Chapter  XI.    Theory  of  Style  242 

A.  Stylistic  Theory  in  General 242 

B.  Single  Theoretical  Style  Problems  247 

C.  Style  Typology  252 

D.  Theory  of  Metaphor 253 

E.  Style  Parallelism  253 

F.  The  Task  of  Style  Investigation  and  Criticism 257 

Addenda  I  264 

Addenda  II  269 

Index  of  Style  Investigators  283 

Index  of  Proper  Names,  Titles,  Problems  and  Stylistic 

Terms 294 


Preface 

More  than  twenty  years  ago  the  present  writer  was  asked  by 
the  editor  of  GRM  to  contribute  to  this  periodical  any  special 
bibliography  from  the  field  of  Romance  philology.  The  new 
studies  in  style  investigation  which  were  then  being  produced 
by  scholars  like  Karl  Vossler,  Leo  Spitzer,  Eugen  Lerch,  Charles 
Bally  and  others,  seemed  the  most  fitting  field  of  interest  for  a 
critical  bibliography,  and  the  first  bibliographical  article,  "Ro- 
manistische  Stilforschung,"  appeared  in  GRM,  XVII  (1929),  50- 
67.  The  progress  that  style  investigation  had  made  between 
1928  and  1932  elicited  very  soon  a  sequel  to  this  first  critical 
survey  in  GRM,  XX  (1932),  453-465.  About  the  same  time, 
Amado  Alonso  decided  to  translate  some  classic  articles  by  Voss- 
ler, Spitzer,  and  Bally,  and,  with  this  collection,  to  introduce  to 
the  Spanish  world  the  new  Stilforschung.  He  found,  however, 
that  for  further  orientation  it  was  necessary  to  append  a  style 
bibliography  to  the  volume  he  was  planning.  Consequently,  he 
wrote  me  as  follows : 

Creo  sera  indispensable,  para  iniciar  al  publico  de  habla  es- 
panola  en  esta  clase  de  estudios,  incluir  en  ese  tomo  una  reseiia 
critica  de  los  estudios  de  estilistica  hasta  ahora  aparecidos.  Por 
esto  solicitaba  de  Ud.  el  permiso  para  traducir  su  articulo  Ro- 
manische  Stilforschung  aparecido  in  1929  en  GRM.  Tambien  le 
rogaba  nos  enviara  cuantas  adiciones  y  ampliaciones  creyera  con- 
venientes,  tanto  sobre  trabajos  posteriores  a  su  articulo  como 
sobre  las  obras  alii  estudiados. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  two  GRM  articles,  having  been  trans- 
lated, enlarged  and  supplemented  with  notes  by  Amado  Alonso 
and  Raimundo  Lida,  appeared  with  a  Guia  as  "La  investigacion 
estilistica  en  las  literaturas  romanicas"  in  Introduction  a  la  Es- 
tilistica Romance  por  K.  Vossler,  L.  Spitzer  y  H.  Hatzf eld.  Tra- 
ducci6n  y  notas  de  Amado  Alonso  y  Raimundo  Lida.  Collecci6n 
de  estudios  estilisticos  (Buenos  Aires:  Instituto  de  Filologia, 
1932).  Vol.  I,  149-216.  The  critical  survey  had  to  be  selective,  not 
only  because  it  was  impossible  to  cover  all  the  articles  in  periodi- 
cals of  different  languages  and  countries,  some  of  which  were 
not  accessible  at  all  in  Germany,  but  also  because  in  this  domain 
the  subjective  element  could  not  be  avoided  in  the  attempt  to 
decide  what  a  style  study  actually  is. 


x  Preface 

It  was  logical  and  justifiable,  therefore,  that  Amado  Alonso 
and  Raimundo  Lida  should  add  to  the  critical  bibliography  a  non- 
critical  one  made  up  of  all  those  titles  which  in  their  judgment 
were  lacking  in  the  critical  survey.  Admittedly  they  were  copied 
from  primary  as  well  as  secondary  sources.  It  goes  without 
saying  that  Alonso  and  Lida  were  very  broad  in  their  concept 
of  style  studies  which  they  grouped  under  headings  almost  iden- 
tical with  those  of  the  original  critical  bibliography.  On  the 
other  hand,  they  did  not  take  into  consideration  the  elements 
transcending  literary  language,  that  is  stylistic  motifs  and 
idiomatology,  their  justification  being  that  the  list  of  titles  would 
become  endless  and  that  the  strictly  aesthetical  criterion  was 
their  guide. 

Ten  years  later  Amado  Alonso  and  Raimundo  Lida  reprinted 
their  Introduction  a  la  Estilistica  Romance  (Buenos  Aires, 
1942),  without  any  change  in  the  text  but  with  a  considerable 
addition  of  new  items  to  their  non-critical  bibliography.  In 
1944,  Professor  Rodolfo  Oroz  in  Santiago  de  Chile  asked  the 
present  writer  for  a  contribution  to  his  new  series,  Publicaciones 
de  la  Section  de  Filologia  de  los  Anales  de  la  Facultad  de  Filoso- 
fia  y  Education,  which  were  to  appear  as  Boletin  del  Institute  de 
Filologia  de  la  Universidad,  IV  (1944-1946).  The  writer  thought 
it  would  be  a  useful  enterprise  to  combine  his  own  collected  items 
on  style  investigation  with  those  of  the  new  enlarged  collection 
of  Raimundo  Lida  (1942)  for  a  new  critical  survey  of  stylistic 
items.  The  new  article  appeared  as  Nuevas  investigaciones  es- 
tilisticas  en  las  literaturas  romdnicas  (1932-1945),  in  the  above 
mentioned  Boletin  del  Instituto  de  Filologia  de  la  Universidad  de 
Chile,  IV  (1944-46),  7-77. 

In  this  present  book,  all  the  earlier  surveys  are  combined, 
considerably  enriched  and  enlarged  for  the  earlier  years,  with 
the  object  of  making  them  as  complete  as  possible  and,  by  the 
addition  of  a  large  number  of  titles  for  the  last  six  years, 
bringing  them  up  to  date.  A  more  systematic  unity  was 
achieved  by  regrouping  the  items,  making  subdivisions  and  sup- 
plying indexes  and  cross-references.  The  reasons  for  publishing 
this  bibliography  are  manifold :  first  of  all,  the  usefulness  of  the 
earlier  bibliographies  has  been  fully  recognized  (cf .  the  review 
of  Fernando  Antonio  Martinez  in  Boletin  del  Instituto  Caro  y 
Cuervo,  Colombia,  IV  (1948),  200-202,  G.  M.  Bertini  in  Quademi 
IberO'Americani,  no.  12   (1952),  211,  Gerhard  Rohlfs,  Roman- 


Preface  xi 

ische  Philologie  I,  Heidelberg :  Winter,  1950,  p.  198,  and  Charles 
Bruneau,  "La  stylistique,"  Romance  Philology,  V  (1951),  1  ff.)» 
secondly,  various  interested  American  colleagues  have  asked  for 
reprints,  and  have  encouraged  translation  and  publication  in 
English;  thirdly,  extensive  use  has  been  made  of  these  earlier 
bibliographies  in  two  recent  books  on  literary  theories  which  are 
centered  around  style  and  style  investigation,  namely  Rene 
Wellek  and  Austin  Warren,  Theory  of  Literature  (New  York: 
Harcourt  Brace,  1949)  and  Wolfgang  Kayser,  Das  literarische 
Kunstwerk  (Bern:  Francke,  1948;  2nd  ed.  1951),  and  in  Homero 
Seris,  Manual  de  bibliografia  de  la  literatura  espanola  (Syra- 
cuse, 1948). 

A  bibliography  is  not  the  place  for  defining  or  redefining  style 
and  style  investigation ;  this  will  be  done  in  due  course  through 
the  criticism  of  the  different  studies.  The  personal  word  of  the 
present  writer  on  the  problem  is  expressed  in  his  article,  "Styl- 
istic Criticism  as  Artminded  Philology"  in  Yale  French  Studies, 
II  (Spring-  Summer,  1949).  His  present  table  of  contents  clari- 
fies the  various  problems,  their  progress  and  their  treatment. 
Therefore,  only  one  word  need  be  said  here  to  justify  the  inner 
logic  and  the  selection  of  the  problems. 

Since  style  is  considered  here  first  of  all  as  the  structural 
quality  of  a  text,  there  should  come  at  the  outset  the  interpreta- 
tion of  the  texts.  Next,  features  discovered  analytically  should 
be  brought  into  a  synthetic  system.  This  is  facilitated  by  the 
various  arts  d'ecrire  and  by  the  textbooks  on  stylistics.  The 
best  method  for  gaining  a  deeper  insight  into  a  text  is  the  stylis- 
tic comparison  of  two  similar  or  diametrically  opposed  texts 
with  only  the  theme  or  a  basic  psychology  in  common.  After 
these  first  three  methodological  chapters,  follow  two  others  deal- 
ing with  single  works  or  authors :  chapter  IV  is  concerned  only 
with  their  literary  art  in  the  narrow,  verbal  sense;  chapter  V, 
with  their  art  in  a  larger  structural  sense,  transcending  the  mere 
linguistic  aspect.  The  next  two  chapters  consider  special  and 
typical  forms  of  stylistic  expression  as  such:  chapter  VI  en- 
visages devices  as  they  present  themselves  in  specific  authors; 
chapter  VII,  as  they  appear  in  literature  in  general.  Chapter 
VIII  is  concerned  with  the  stylistic  motifs  that  occur  in  single 
authors  as  well  as  in  the  whole  history  of  literature  or  literatures. 
Chapter  IX  shows  the  possibilities  of  combining  all  these  ele- 
ments in  a  history  of  style,  at  least  for  styles  of  a  period.  Chapter 


xii  Preface 

X  focuses  the  interest  on  the  common  language  as  national  com- 
munity style  (idiomatology).  Chapter  XI  gives  an  appraisal  of 
stylistic  theory  as  far  as  Romance  scholarship  is  involved  or 
particularly  interested.  With  this  instrument  at  hand,  younger 
investigators  will  certainly  have  a  better  understanding  of  the 
Held  of  Romance  stylistics,  and  will  thus  be  enabled  to  decide  on 
the  area  in  which  they  will  be  interested  for  special  investigation. 

A  last  word  must  be  said  about  the  presentation.  The  biblio- 
graphy is  written  as  a  readable  unit  in  which  the  different  items 
are  logically  and  organically  linked  together.  None  the  less  it 
is  quite  clear  that  the  main  purpose  of  the  book  is  to  serve  as  a 
reference  work.  Therefore  two  extensive  indexes  have  been 
added,  one  containing  the  names  of  the  style-investigators,  the 
important  ones  with  references  to  their  single  studies,  and  one 
containing  proper  names,  works,  stylistic  problems  and  terms 
occurring  in  the  text. 

The  two  appendices  called  Addenda  I  and  Addenda  II  have 
the  following  raison  d'etre.  The  manuscript  was  finished  in 
1950.  Then  it  began  the  proverbial  trips  to  different  University 
Presses  so  drastically  described  by  Silas  Vance  in  American  As- 
sociation of  University  Professors  Bulletin,  XXXVII  (Winter, 
1951-52),  No.  4,  pp.  711-16.  Meanwhile  the  present  writer  con- 
tinued his  collection  of  stylistic  items.  Some  of  them,  the  most 
important  ones,  were  closely  studied  and  reported  on.  They 
appear  in  Addenda  I.  The  other  items  were  simply  listed,  or,  ac- 
cording to  the  case,  characterized  by  some  words  only.  These 
appear  in  Addenda  II.  If  the  appended  items  do  not  all  show  the 
publication  date  1950-52,  it  must  be  considered  that  various 
periodicals  are  behind  the  current  year  in  the  course  of  their  pub- 
lication. Those  from  abroad  need  a  long  time  to  reach  this  country. 
Some  items  came  to  the  attention  of  the  present  compiler  only 
indirectly,  and  some  of  the  older  titles  certainly  would  have  es- 
caped him  without  the  precious  new  bibliography  of  Harry 
Franklin  Williams,  An  Index  of  Mediaevel  Studies  Published  in 
Festschrift  en,  1865-194-6,  with  special  references  to  Romanic  ma- 
terial (Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1951). 

In  view  of  the  unexpected  development  of  style  studies  in  the 
last  decade,  the  temptation  of  calling  this  bibliography  selective 
was  great.  Since  I  tried,  however,  to  get  hold  of  everything  im- 
portant, at  least,  I  rather  prefer  to  be  accused  of  some  lacunae. 
These  may  be  filled  by  the  prospective  critics  of  this  material. 


Preface  xiii 

My  excuse  for  not  being  complete  may  be  the  unusual  variety 
of  sources  and  the  attempt  (probably  one  of  the  last)  to  Keep 
the  sectors  of  the  Romance  field  together  in  a  domain  which  is 
rather  literary  than  linguistic,  and  in  a  moment  when  the 
French,  Spanish  and  Italian  branches  have  already  practically 
lost  contact  with  one  another. 

The  present  writer's  seminar  at  Catholic  University,  held  in 
the  academic  year  1948/49,  especially  Dr.  Raphael  G.  Urciolo, 
contributed  much  in  helping  to  establish  the  text  and  deserve 
the  gratitude  not  only  of  the  author  but  of  the  reader  who  may 
find  this  bibliography  helpful. 

All  the  contributions  were  rechecked  and  put  into  a  more 
unified  English  by  Mrs.  Kathryn  Day  Wyatt,  Assistant  Profes- 
sor at  American  University,  Washington,  D.  C.  It  is  unneces- 
sary to  say  how  grateful  the  author  is  to  her. 

xi.  H. 
The  Catholic  University  of  America. 


List  of  Abbreviations 

A=Asomante  (Puerto  Rico) 
AFA=Archivo  de  Filologia  Aragonesa 
AGI=Archivio  Glottologico  Italiano 
AIL=Anales  del  Instituto  Linguistico  (Cuyo) 
AISP=Archivio  Italiano  per  la  Storia  della  Pieta 
AJJR=Annales  de  la  Societe  Jean-Jacques  Rousseau 
AJP=The  American  Journal  of  Philology 

AMP=  (Seances  et  Travaux  de  V)  Academie  des  Sciences  mor- 
ales et  politiques 
ANP=Annali  della  R.  Scuola  Normale  Superiore  di  Pisa 
ANS=Archiv  fur  das  Studium  der  Neueren  Sprachen 
AOR=Anuari  de  TOficina  Romanica  (Barcelona) 
AR=Archivum  Romanicum 

ARP=Arbeiten  zur  Romanischen  Philologie  (Minister) 
Att=Atti  del  Reale  Instituto  Veneto  di  Scienze,  Lettere  ed  Arti 
AUC=Anales  de  la  Universidad  de  Chile 
AV=Ateneo  Veneto 

B=Biblos  (Coimbra) 

BAC=Boletin  de  la  Academia  de  Cordoba  (Spain) 

BAE=Boletin  de  la  Real  Academia  Espanola  (Madrid) 

BAL=Boletin  de  la  Academia  de  Letras  (Buenos  Aires) 

BAR=Biblioteca  delP  Archivum  Romanicum 

BB=Berliner  Beitrage  zur  Romanischen  Philologie 

BBMP=Boletin  de  la  Biblioteca  Menendez  y  Pelayo 

BF==Boletim  de  Filologia 

BFCh=Boletin  de  Filologia  (Santiago  de  Chile) 

BH=Bulletin  Hispanique 

BHS=Bulletin  of  Hispanic  Studies  (Liverpool) 

BICC=Boletin  del  Instituto  Caro  y  Cuervo  (Bogota) 

BIIL=Boletin  del  Instituto  de  Investigaciones  Literarias   (La 

Plata) 
BJRL=Bulletin  of  the  John  Rylands  Library  (Manchester) 
BKMR=Beitrage  zur  Kulturgeschichte  des  Mittelalters  und  der 

Renaissance 
BKR==Beitrage  zur  Kultur  der  Romanen  (Wiirzburg) 
BL=Bulletin  Linguistique 
BREP=Beitrage  zur  Romanischen  und  Englischen  Philologie 

(Halle) 


xvi  List  of  Abbreviations 

BSAM=Bulletin  de  la  Societe  des  Amis  de  Montaigne 
BSCC=Boletin  de  la  Sociedad  Castellonense  de  Cultura 
BSL=Bulletin  de  la  Societe  Linguistique  de  Paris 
BSS=Bulletin  of  Spanish  Studies  (Liverpool) 
BZRP=Beihefte  zur  Zeitschrift  fiir  Romanische  Philologie 

Ca=Castilla  (Valladolid) 

CEE=Coleccion  de  Estudios  Estilisticos  (Buenos  Aires) 

CiM=Civilta  Moderna 

CL=Comparative  Literature 

Cl=Clavileno 

CLC=Cuadernos  de  Literatura  Contemporanea 

CLS=Comparative  Literature  Studies 

CN=Cultura  Neolatina 

Co=Confluences 

Conv=Convivium 

CS=Cahiers  du  Sud 

CT=Ciencia  Tomista 

Cu=La  Cultura  (Rome) 

CuaL=Cuadernos  de  Literatura 

Cx=La  Croix 

CyR=Cruz  y  Raya 

DDJ=Deutsches  Dante  Jahrbuch 
DFR=Deutsch-Franzosische  Rundschau 

DV=Deutsche  Vierteljahrsschrift  fiir  Literaturwissenschaft  und 
Geistesgeschichte 

EAP=Entretiens  des  Amis  de  Pascal 

EC=Les  Etudes  Classiques  (Namur) 

EE=Estudios  Estilisticos 

EI=Etudes  Italiennes 

EIA=The  English  Institute  Annual  (New  York) 

ELLM=E.  R.  Curtius,  Europaische  Literatur  und  lateinisches 

Mittelalter,  Bern:  Francke,  1948 
EMP=Estudios  dedicados  a  Menendez  Pidal,  Madrid,  1950-1952 
EN=L'Esprit  Nouveau 
EPE=Ensayos   sobre    Poesia   Espanola    (by   Damaso   Alonso, 

Buenos  Aires:  RO,  1946) 
ERS=Eberings  Romanische  Studien 
Esc=Escorial 

F==Le  Figaro 


List  of  Abbreviations  xvii 

FET=Festschrift  fur  Ernst  Tappolet  (Basel:  Schwabe,  1935) 

FHC=Facultad  de  Humanidades  y  Ciencias  de  la  Universidad  de 
Uruguay  (Montevideo) 

FL=La  France  Libre 

FLM=Filosofia  y  Letras  (Mexico) 

FLSM=Faculte  des  Lettres  de  PUniversite  de  Strasbourg.  Me- 
langes, Etudes  litteraires 

FM=Le  Francais  Moderne 

FQ=The  French  Quarterly 

FQF=Frankfurter  Quellen  und  Forschungen 

FR=The  French  Review 

FRP=Forschungen  zur  Romanischen  Philologie   (Minister) 

FS=French  Studies 

GBRP=Giessener  Beitrage  zur  Romanischen  Philologie 
GIF=Giornale  Italiano  di  Filologia 
GrR=La  Grande  Revue 
GR=The  Germanic  Review 
GRM=Germanisch-Romanische  Monatsschrift 
GSLI==Giornale  Storico  della  Letteratura  Italiana 

H=Hispania 

He=Helicon 

HeR=Humanisme  et  Renaissance 

HoR=The  Hopkins  Review 

HR=Hispanic  Review 

HRL=Homenatge  Rubio  y  Lluch  (Barcelona,  1936),  3  vols. 

HSVKR==Hamburger  Studien  zu  Volkstum  und  Kultur  der  Ro- 

manen 
Hu=Humanidades  (Universidad  Nacional  de  la  Plata) 
HuR=Hudson  Review 

I=Italica 

ICS==Italia  che  scrive 
IL=L,Information  Litteraire 
IPh==Idealistische  Philologie 

JAe=The  Journal  of  Aesthetics  and  Art  Criticism 
JAS=Journal  of  the  Acoustic  Society  of  America 
JHI=The  Journal  of  the  History  of  Ideas 
JHS=The  Johns  Hopkins  Studies  in  Romance  Languages  and 

Literatures 
JP=«=Jahrbuch  fur  Philologie 


xviii  List  of  Abbreviations 

KRA=Kolner  Romanistische  Arbeiten 

L=Letteratura 

La=Lateranum 

Le=Lettura  (Corriere  della  Sera,  Milano) 

Leo=Leonardo 

LGRP=Literaturblatt  fur  Germanisch-Romanische  Philologie 

LI=I1  Libro  Italiano 

LJ=Literaturwissenschaftliches  Jahrbuch  der  Gorresgesell- 
schaft 

LLH=Linguistics  and  Literary  History  (by  Leo  Spitzer,  Prince- 
ton University  Press,  1948) 

LN=Lingua  Nostra 

LR=Les  Lettres  Romanes 

LRA=Leipziger  Romanistische  Arbeiten 

Lu=Lusitania 

MA=Melanges  offerts  a  M.  Charles  Andler,  Strasbourg,  1924 

MAST=Memorie  della  R.  Academia  delle  Scienze  di  Torino 

MB=Melanges  de  Linguistique  offerts  a  Charles  Bally  (Geneve : 
Georg,  1939) 

MBRP=Marburger  Beitrage  zur  romanischen  Philologie 

MD=Melanges  offerts  a  Albert  Dauzat  (Paris:  D'Arthey,  1951) 

Me=Mediterraneo  (Valencia) 

MF=Mercure  de  France 

MGM=Miscellanea  Giovanni  Mercati,  Citta  di  Vaticano,  1946 

MH=Melanges  de  philologie  et  d'histoire  litteraire  offerts  a 
Edmond  Huguet  (Paris:  Boivin,  1940) 

MHoe=Melanges  de  philologie  romane  et  de  litterature  medie- 
vale offerts  a  E.  Hoepffner  (Paris:  Les  Belles  Lettres,  1949) 

MiA=Michigan  Academy  of  Sciences,  Arts  and  Letters 

ML=Melanges  Lanson  (Paris:  Hachette,  1922) 

MLF=Modern  Language  Forum 

MLN=Modern  Language  Notes 

MLQ=Modern  Language  Quarterly 

MLR=Modern  Language  Review 

MNAW=Mededelingen  der  Koninglijke  Nederlandsche  Akad- 
emie  van  Wetenschappen 

MP=Modern  Philology 

MS=Medieval  Studies  in  Honor  of  J.  D.  M.  Ford,  Harvard  Uni- 
versity Press,  1948 

MS  (Toronto)  =Medieval  Studies  (Toronto) 

MSN=Memoires  de  la  Societe  Neophilologique  de  Helsinki 


Preface  xix 

MT=Miscellanea  della  Facolta  di  Lettere  della  R.  Universita  di 

Torino 
MV=Melanges  Vianey  (Paris,  1934) 
MW=Melanges  Wilmotte  (Paris,  1910) 

N«=La  Nation  (Buenos  Aires) 

NA=Nuova  Antologia 

Ne=La  Nef 

Neo=Neophilologus 

NJ=Neue  Jahrbucher  fur  Wissenschaft  und  Jugendbildung 

No=Nosotros  (Buenos  Aires) 

NR=New  Republic 

NRC=La  Nouvelle  Revue  Critique 

NRF=La  Nouvelle  Revue  Franchise 

NRFH=Nueva  Revista  de  Filologia  Hispanica 

NS=Die  Neueren  Sprachen 

OI«=0  Instituto  (Coimbra) 
OL=Orbis  Litterarum 

PIFS=Publications  of  the  Institute  of  French  Studies   (New 

York) 
PMLA=Publications  of  the  Modern  Language  Association  of 

America 
PP«=La  Parola  del  Passato 
PQ=Philological  Quarterly 
PRIA«=Proceedings  of  the  Royal  Irish  Academy 

QI=Quaderni  Ibero-Americani 

R-=-Romania 

RB-=Revista  do  Brasil 

RBAM«=Revista  de  la  Biblioteca  y  de  los  Archivos  del  Ayuntami- 

ento  de  Madrid 
RC-=Revista  Cubana 
RCC=Revue  des  Cours  et  Conferences 
RCL=Revista  del  Colegio  Libre  (Buenos  Aires) 
RCM=Revista  del  Colegio  Mayor  de  Nuestra  Seiiora  del  Rosario 

(Bogota) 
RDo=Revue  Dominicaine 
Re=Renaissance 
ReRe=Review  of  Religion 
REI=Revue  des  Etudes  Indo-Europeennes 


xx  List  of  Abbreviations 

RF=Romaniscbe  Forschungen 
RFE=Revista  de  Filologia  Espaiiola 
RFH=Revista  de  Filologia  Hispanica 
RFP=Revista  de  Filologia  Portuguesa 
RFR— Revista  Fundatilor  Regale 
RHe=Revue  Hebdomadaire 
RHi=Revue  Hispanique 

RHLF=Revue  d'Histoire  Litteraire  de  la  France 
RHM=Revista  Hispanica  Moderna 

RHPH=Revue  d'Histoire  de  la  Philosophie  et  d'Histoire  Gen- 
erate de  la  Civilization 
RI=Revista  de  las  Indias 
Rib — Revista  Iberoamericana 
RIE=Revista  de  Ideas  Esteticas 
RILD=Rivista  Italiana  di  Letteratura  dialettale 
RIt=Rassegna  Italiana 
Rj=Romanistisches  Jahrbuch 
RLC=Revue  de  Litterature  Comparee 
RLR=Revue  de  Linguistique  Romane 
RNC=Revista  Nacional  de  Cultura  (Caracas) 
RNE=Revista  Nacional  de  Educaci6n 
RO==Revista  de  Occidente 

RP=Revue  Philosophique  de  la  France  et  de  TEtranger 
RPh=Romance  Philology 

RPhF=Revue  de  Philologie  francaise  et  de  litterature 
RPH=Revue  Beige  de  Philologie  et  d'Histoire 
RPo=Revista  de  Portugal 
RR=The  Romanic  Review 
RSL=Rivista  di  Sintesi  Letteraria 

S==Sur  (Buenos  Aires) 

SBAW==Sitzungsberichte  der  Bayerischen  Akademie  der  Wis- 

senschaften.  Philosophisch-Historische  Abteilung 
SCS=Smith  College  Studies  in  Modern  Languages 
SD=Studi  Danteschi 
SEP=Studies  in  English  Philology.  A  Miscellany  in  honor  of 

F.  Klaeber  (Minneapolis,  1929) 
SF=Studi  Francescani 
SFDY=Studies  by  Members  of  the  French  Department,  Yale, 

1941 
SFI=Studi  di  Filologia  Italiana 


List  of  Abbreviations  xxi 

Si=Sintesis 

SN=Studia  Neophilologica  (Uppsala) 

SpF=Spanische  Forschungen.   Gesammelte  Aufsatze  zur  Kul- 

turgeschichte  Spaniens  (Miinster:  Aschendorff) 
SF=Studies  in  Philology 
SPe=Studi  Petrarcheschi 
SR=The  Sewanee  Review 

SRCT=Studiorum  Romanicorum  Collectio  Turicensis 
SRu=Schweizer  Rundschau 
SW=Schule  und  Wissenschaft 
Sy— Symposium 

T=Trivium.  Schweizerische  Vierteljahrsschrift  fiir  Literatur- 

wissenschaft  und  Stilkritik 
TF=~Tierra  Firme 
TM=Les  Temps  Modernes 
TN=Tempo  Nostro 
Tr=Traditio 
TTL=Tijdschrift  voor  Taal  en  Letteren 

U==»E1  Universal  (Caracas) 

UCP=University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology 

UCPL=University  of  California  Publications  in  Linguistics 

UCS=The  University  of  Colorado  Studies 

UIS=University  of  Iowa  Studies  in  Spanish  Language  and  Lit- 
erature 

UNCS=University  of  North  Carolina  Studies  in  the  Romance 
Languages  and  Literatures 

UNMB=The  University  of  New  Mexico  Bulletin  (Albuquerque) 

V=Verbum 

Vi=Viernes 

VI=La  Vie  Intellectuelle 

VKR=Volkstum  und  Kultur  der  Romanen 

VP=Vita  e  Pensiero 

VR=Vox  Romanica 

VyV=Verdad  y  Vida 

W=Word 

YFS=Yale  French  Studies 

Z=Zeitwende 


xxii  List  of  Abbreviations 

ZAe=Zeitschrift   fur  Aesthetik  und  allgemeine   Kunstwissen- 

schaft 
ZDA=Zeitschrift  f ur  Deutsches  Altertum 
ZFS=Zeitschrift  flir  Franzosische  Sprache  und  Literatur 
ZRP=Zeitschrift  flir  Romanische  Philologie 


CHAPTER  I 

Explanation  of  Texts 

("Close  Reading,"  "Explication  de  Textes") 

A.    Educational  Literary  Art  Appreciation 

The  best  means  of  recognizing  the  art  of  a  literary  work,  ac- 
cording to  a  generally  accepted  method  in  France,  is  the  so- 
called  explication  de  texte.  It  has  been  practiced  there  since 
1900  with  progressively  improved  methods  of  approach.  The 
books  with  this  title  explain  a  given  text  by  means  of  a  close 
analysis  of  its  lexicological  and  syntactical  features,  including 
the  so-called  figures  of  speech  and  rhythmical  elements.  Fur- 
thermore such  books  attempt  to  determine  the  artistic  value  of 
a  text.  In  other  words,  they  try  to  transpose  the  artistic  proce- 
dures found  in  the  text  to  a  theoretical,  communicable,  analytical, 
quasi-grammatical  language  of  the  critic.  They  even  attain  to 
scientific  concepts  of  style.  If  they  probe  deeply  enough  and 
proceed  systematically,  preferably  on  a  comparative  basis,  they 
cannot  fail  to  reach  the  goal  of  a  kind  of  objective  criticism. 

The  most  instructive  work  in  this  genre,  Mario  ROUSTAN 
— 1 —  Precis  d' explication  frangaise  (Paris:  Delaplane,  1911), 
gives  a  theoretical  introduction  to  this  method  together  with  a 
number  of  examples.  This  first  series  of  texts  has  been  ampli- 
fied by  a  second  set  called  — 2 —  Textes  frangais  commentes  et 
expliques  (Paris:  Delaplane,  no  date).  Older  but  more  con- 
densed is  the  collection  of  examples  by  Gustave  RUDLER  — 3 — 
V explication  frangaise ,  Principes  et  applications  (Paris:  Colin, 
1902) .  Compared  with  Roustan  and  Rudler,  both  of  whose  books 
appeared  in  numberless  editions,  nothing  fundamentally  new  was 
offered  on  the  same  subject  matter.  Of  course,  there  are  some 
other  studies  worth  mentioning,  though  on  a  lower  level,  like 
Marcel  SARTHOU  — 4 —  U explication  frangaise  (Paris: 
Nathan,  1924) ,  or  J.  VIANEY — 5 — U explication  frangaise  (Par- 
is: Hatier,  1914),  etc.  In  — 6 —  U explication  frangaise  par  une 
reunion  de  Professeurs,  ler  volume,  100  textes  des  XVIe,  XVIIe 
et  XVIIIe  siecles;  2e  volume:  100  textes  du  XIXe  siecle  (Paris: 
L'Enseignement  libre,  1948),  we  have  the  final  victory  of  the 


2  Explanation  of  Texts  7-14 

explication  versus  VHistoire  litteraire  in  which  a  group  of  pro- 
fessors has  united  a  sufficient  pool  of  texts  to  replace,  by  their 
direct  study,  all  types  of  literary  history  surveys. 

B.     Theoretical  Discussions 

This  French  method  is  recommended  today  by  many  scholars 
outside  France,  although  most  of  them  have  tried  the  strictly 
pedagogical  practice  of  the  explication  merely  in  their  classrooms 
and  have  propagated  the  implications  only  in  a  theoretical  fash- 
ion. In  America  there  was  an  early  "preacher  in  the  desert," 
Robert  VIGNERON  — 7 —  Explication  de  Textes  and  its  Adap- 
tation to  the  Teaching  of  Modern  Languages  (Chicago,  1928).  A 
quarter  of  a  century  later  this  message  falls  on  fertile  ground, 
since  everybody  now  takes  for  granted  what  is  said  by  J.  B. 
RATERMANIS  in  his  —8 —  "Utilisation  des  textes  litteraires 
dans  l'enseignement  de  la  langue,"  FR,  XXIV  (1950),  35-37. 
Amado  ALONSO  has  suggested  repeatedly  that  — 9 —  "The  Styl- 
istic Interpretation  of  Literary  Texts,"  MLN,  LVII  (1942),  489- 
496,  must  of  necessity  be  the  point  of  departure  in  the  teaching  of 
literature,  in  order  that  students  may  be  given  the  elementary 
tools  for  molding  taste  and  criticism.  Contemporary  writers  in 
Venezuela  learned  from  Ulrich  LEO  — 10 —  "La  interpretacion 
como  critica  objetiva,"  U  (Oct.  28,  1943)  that  the  simple  aes- 
thetic explanation  of  a  text,  its  circumscribing,  i.e.  an  essential 
interlinear  version  in  the  language  of  style  appreciation,  is  the 
true  and  fundamental  criticism.  A  similar  thesis  is  repeated 
again  and  again  by  Leo  SPITZER,  particularly  in  his  — 11 — 
"History  of  Ideas  versus  Reading  of  Poetry,"  SR,  VI  (1940),  584- 
609.  In  a  discussion  with  the  historian  of  ideas,  Love  joy,  Spitzer 
asserts  that  the  stylistic  interpretation  of  a  text  cannot  be  given 
by  a  historical,  but  only  by  an  immanent  and  direct  approach 
with  the  preliminary  question:  Does  the  text  appeal  to  the 
modern  reader,  and  why? 

Spitzer  has  given  many  examples  of  this  approach.  He 
analysed  Voltairian  texts:  — 12 —  "Einige  Voltaire  Interpreta- 
tionen,"  KRA,  II,  (1931),  211-243,  partly  repeated  and  changed 
in  — 13 —  "Explication  de  Texte  Applied  to  Voltaire,"  A 
Method  of  Interpreting  Literature  (Northampton:  Smith  Col- 
lege, 1949),  64-101.  In  — 14 —  "Explication  linguistique 
et  litteraire  de  deux  textes  frangais,"  FM,  III,  (1935),  315-323, 


15-19  Theoretical  Discussions  3 

and  IV  (1936),  37-48,  Spitzer  chose  interpretations,  theoretically 
stressing  the  stylistic  method,  from  Jules  Romains'  Mort  de 
quelqu'un  and  Ronsard's  poem,  Comme  on  voit  sur  la  branche, 
au  mots  de  mai,  la  rose.  Spitzer  also  discussed  in  connection  with 
Villon's  ballad  Des  dames  de  jadis  the  problem  as  the  — 15 — 
"Etude  ahistorique  d'un  texte,"  MLQ,  I  (1940),  7-22.  The  non- 
historical  approach,  Spitzer  explains,  must  not  be  the  work  of 
an  ignoramus  but  of  a  trained  scholar  who  resorts  to  his  store- 
house of  historical,  archeological,  sociological,  literary  and  philo- 
logical knowledge  whenever  necessary  for  proving  or  ascertain- 
ing the  correctness  of  his  aesthetic  interpretation.  This  point 
was  made  clear  again  by  Spitzer's  analysis  of  a  contemporary 
French  text:  — 16 —  "A  Linguistic  and  Literary  Interpretation  of 
Claudel's  Ballade,"  FR,  XVI  (1942/43),  134-143.  Leo  Spitzer 
—17—  "El  romance  de  Abenamar,"  A,  I  (1945),  7-29,  gives  the 
widest  view  on  the  implications  of  the  fragmentary  and  "crisis" 
style  of  this  single  romance  in  the  epic  cycle  of  a  romancero, 
after  having  praised  the  French  explication  as  the  ideal  method 
for  such  a  purpose.  Leo  Spitzer's  earliest  study  along  this  line, 
Vigny's  —18—  "Le  Cor,"  GRM,  XVII  (1928),  399-414,  had 
practically  determined  the  essence  of  such  an  interpretation  as 
"an  attempt  at  an  immanent  explanation  of  the  style,"  thereby 
repudiating  the  historical  method  of  0.  Schulz-Gora. 

Servais  ETIENNE  — 19 —  Defense  de  la  philologie  (Paris: 
Droz,  1933),  goes  beyond  Spitzer  in  teaching  literary  subjects, 
by  rejecting  the  historical  method  as  incapable  of  accounting  for 
art  and  details,  and  inaccessible  to  students  with  their  poor 
cultural  background.  Stylistic  analysis  in  the  sense  of  the 
explication  de  textes  lies  according  to  Etienne  in  the  line  of 
philology  by  which  the  classical  philologists  in  past  centuries 
have  achieved  so  much  in  developing  their  pupils  into  tasteful 
scholiasts.  Having  been  taught  this  method,  the  students  can 
at  once  begin  original,  personal,  and  valuable  work.  Servais 
Etienne  actually  found  out  that  analytical  work  in  the  field  of 
aesthetic  interpretation  appeals  more  to  young  people  than  his- 
torical work  and  synthesis.  Therefore,  his  advice  to  his  pupils 
to  write  analyses  of  texts  resulted  in  material  mature  enough 
for  publication.  The  rich  harvest  from  such  contributions, 
graded  according  to  value,  appeared  as  a  collection  of  interpre- 
tations of  poems,  descriptions  of  nature,  and  historical  passages 


4  Explanation  of  Texts  20-24 

chosen  at  random,  but  done  in  masterly  fashion  by  students  from 
Liege  in  Servais  Etienne  — 20 —  Experiences  d'analyse  textuelle 
en  vue  d' explication  litteraire  (Paris:  Droz,  1934).  The  young 
Brazilian  scholar  Afranio  COUTINHO  —21—  "Correntes  Cru- 
zadas,"  Diario  de  Noticias  (Rio  de  Janeiro,  Sept.  3,  1950), 
rightly  calls  the  method  of  interpretation  the  rehabilitation  of 
the  old  rhetorics  in  new  patterns,  the  revolt  of  literary  appre- 
ciation against  the  predominance  of  historical  methods,  the 
method  of  intrinsic  analysis. 

The  idea  of  explaining  stylistically  the  entire  work  of  a  great 
poet  instead  of  a  short  text  was  the  obsession  of  the  late  Karl 
VOSSLER  about  fifty  years  ago.  It  was  then  that  he  tried  a 
condensed  explication  of  the  Divine  Comedy  in  the  chapter 
— 22 —  "Die  Poesie  der  gottlichen  Komodie,"  in  Die  gbttliche 
Kombdie  (Heidelberg:  Winter,  1907-10),  4  vols.;  second  edition 
1925,  2  vols. ;  translated  into  English  as  Medieval  Culture  (N.  Y. : 
Harcourt  Brace,  1929).  Unfortunately,  despite  the  stress  on 
aesthetical  values,  his  "running  commentary"  never  could  delve 
into  such  details  of  interpretation  as  could  be  worked  out  for 
poems  or  fragments  only.  Vossler's  enterprise  therefore  has 
more  value  as  an  exploration  of  possibilities  in  style  description 
than  as  a  satisfactory  solution  of  these  formal  problems.  Voss- 
ler's  philosophic  aesthetic  concept  of  the  stylistic  explication, 
however,  is  shared  by  Charles  LALO  — 23 —  "The  Aesthetic 
Analysis  of  a  Work  of  Art.  An  Essay  on  the  Structure  and 
Superstructure  of  Poetry/*  JAe,  VII  (1949) ,  275-293.  He  shows 
by  the  analysis  of  all  the  "voices"  of  a  literary  polyphony 

how  the  analysis  of  an  aesthetic  fact,  as  well  as  the  experiments 
or  comparisons  that  complete  the  analysis,  leads  us  automatically 
to  the  judgment  of  the  value  of  this  fact. 

Giovanni  BRUNO  — 24 —  "DelPinterpretazione  linguistica  di 
alcune  opere  letterarie,"  CN,  IV-V  (1944-45),  157-162,  recom- 
mends the  methods  of  explication  employed  by  Leo  Spitzer  and 
his  Italian  follower  Luigi  Russo  as  solid,  fertile,  arguable  and 
convincing.  The  method  is  called  up  to  replace  the  aestheticism 
of  selected  bellezze  (De  Sanctis-Croce)  as  well  as  the  dogmatic 
criticism  based  on  poetic  theory.  Let  us  say  at  this  point  that 
Bruno,  although  he  may  go  too  far,  has  sanctioned  the  stylistic 
interpretation  for  Italy. 


25-32  Explanation  in  Monographs  5 

C.  "Explication  de  Textes"  in  Monographs 

Some  French  scholars  in  the  field  of  literary  history  tried, 
though  with  inadequate  means,  to  make  the  explication  an  es- 
sential part  in  monographs  on  literary  works.  In  the  Collection 
Mellottee,  called  revealingly  Les  chefs-cfoeuvre  de  la  litterature 
expliques,  we  find  names  like  those  of  the  late  Paul  HAZARD, 
who  explains  aesthetically  on  the  basis  of  previous  style  studies 
— 25 —  Le  Don  Quichotte  de  Cervantes  (1932) ;  Andre  LE 
BRETON,  who,  as  a  connoisseur  of  the  nineteenth  century  and 
especially  of  Stendhal,  points  out  the  structure  of  — 26 —  Le  rouge 
et  le  noir,  Etude  et  analyse  (1935)  with  excellent  stylistic  ob- 
servations, pp.  228  ff. ;  Paul  BeRRET,  who  analyses  — 27 —  La 
legende  des  siecles  (1935)  ;  and  Edmond  FARAL,  who  in  — 28 — 
La  Chanson  de  Roland  (1933),  particularly  on  pp.  251-277,  ex- 
plains the  beauty  of  the  poem's  stylistic  abruptness,  the  laisses 
similaires,  the  consistency  in  plot  and  characters,  the  intentional 
lack  of  mysterious  tension  and  surprise,  the  concise  descriptions, 
the  means  of  lyricism  and  the  cult  of  the  pathetic,  together  with  a 
particular  mixture  of  precision,  up  to  pedantic  parallelisms  in 
une  atmosphere  nebuleuse  (p.  272).  But  Faral's  etude  et 
analyse  is  far  from  being  exhaustive  and  is  not  the  last  word  on 
this  subject  at  all. 

Such  presentations  of  works  based  on  the  method  of  explica- 
tion exist  also  outside  of  France.  Frederic  Charles  GREEN 
— 29 —  The  Mind  of  Proust.  A  detailed  interpretation  of  'A  la 
recherche  du  temps  perdu'  (Cambridge:  Univ.  Press,  1949) 
is  a  glorious  interpretation  of  texts  running  through  a  whole 
work,  from  which  decisive  passages  have  been  selected  to  show 
that  for  Proust  style  is  "the  revelation,  impossible  by  direct  or 
conscious  means,  of  that  immaterial  something  which  is  the  qual- 
ity of  the  artist's  unique  vision"  (p.  545) .  Emile  MOUSSeAT  — 
30 —  Expliquez-moi  les  sonnets  de  Jose-Maria  de  Heredia  (Paris : 
Foucher,  1949) ,  inaugurates  a  new  type  of  explanation  of  poetry 
(see  nos.  1498-1501).  Pauline  MASCAGNI  —31—  Initiation 
a  Paul  Valery  (Paris:  Marcel  Gasnier,  1946),  somewhat  naively 
studies  the  style  of  Narcisse,  Charmes,  La  Jeune  Par  que t  etc., 
which  by  dint  of  art  have  the  power  to  infiltrate  a  philosophy 
into  the  reader. 

Others  who  want  to  show  the  originality  of  an  author  can  no 
longer  do  without  the  insertion  of  at  least  a  few  textual  analyses. 
Thus,  Ivanca  M.  POPAVA  —32—  UOriginalite  de  Voeuvre 


6  Explanation  of  Texts  33-40 

d' Alfred  de  Vigny,  These,  Toulouse,  1937,  devotes  a  whole  chap- 
ter (IV,  pp.  91-138)  to  the  Analyse  de  quelques  poemes  philoso- 
phiques.  Louis  ESTeVE  — 33 —  Etudes  philosophiques  sur 
V expression  litteraire  (Paris:  Vrin,  1938),  conversely  includes 
an  analysis  of  Lamartine's  he  Crucifix  and  another  of  Mallarme's 
Le  Cygne.  Maurice  DAVID  — 34 —  Initiation  a  Charles  Peguy 
(Paris :  La  Nouvelle  Edition,  1945)  contains  a  chapter  on  Peguy's 
style  with  elementary  but  very  good  analyses  of  poetic  and  prose 
texts:  "Les  moyens  d'expression"  (pp.  44-70)  stressing  the  spell 
cf  an  "hantise"  coming  from  the  insistence  of  his  language.  It 
is  in  the  footsteps  of  Gustave  LANSON'S  well  known  — 35 — 
L'art  de  la  prose  (Paris,  1909),  with  its  many  passages  analyzed 
stylistically,  that  Paul  von  RUBOW  — 36 —  Prosaens  Kunst  den 
Franske  Klassiske  Tradition.  Festskrift  nidgivet  af  Hans 
Majestaet  Kongens  Fbdselsdag  26.  Sept.  (K0benhavn:  Bianco 
Lunos,  1938) ,  presents  samples  from  Pascal,  La  Bruyere,  Fene- 
lon,  Voltaire,  Vauvenargues  and  Buffon. 

D.    The  Scholarly  Approach  to  Stylistic  Interpretation 

Those  who  considered  the  explication  as  an  aesthetical  play, 
were  surprised  to  see  that  the  serious  quest  in  interpretation 
was  no  less  for  truth  than  for  beauty  (see  nos.  12-18) .  C.  VOILE 
_37—  "Bel  aubepin  verdissant,"  FM,  V  (1937),  343-354,  and 
Leo  SPITZER  —38—  "Le  bel  aubepin  de  Ronsard,"  FM,  VIII 
(1940),  223-236,  tried  to  discover  what  was  philosophically  right 
and  wrong  in  the  interpretation  of  'Le  bel  aubepin'  as  a  sym- 
bolic poem,  and  Spitzer  based  his  point  on  M.  Roustan's  as  de- 
veloped in  Les  textes  frangais  commentes  et  expliques  (see  no. 
2),  25-34.  Gustave  COHEN  — 39 —  Essai  dy  explication  du 
cimetiere  marin  (Paris:  Gallimard,  1933;  2e  edition  augmentee 
d'une  glose  analogue  sur  La  jeune  Parque,  1946),  encouraged  by 
Paul  Valery  himself,  published  his  penetrating  interpretation, 
previously  explained  at  the  Sorbonne,  of  one  of  the  most  obscure 
poems  of  that  author.  He  was  followed  by  Jean  VENETTIS 
— 4,0 —  Exegese  poetique  de  V  'Ebauche  dyun  Serpent*  de  P. 
Valery  (Paris:  La  Palladienne,  1941).  Venettis  is  more  critical 
than  Cohen  and  decries  Valery's  intellectual  and  involuntarily 
burlesque  formalism  which  tries  to  interpret  ideas  instead  of 
embodying  ideals  in  true  poetry. 

But  it  was  the  German  scholars  who  tried  to  make  the  expli- 


41-44  Stylistic  Interpretation  7 

cation  strictly  scholarly.  As  a  sort  of  manifesto  in  favor  of  a 
conscious  withdrawal  from  the  historical  method  and  a  return 
to  aesthetical  description,  the  fact  may  be  cited  that  a  literary 
historian  as  well  known  as  Hanns  HEISS  in  — 41 —  "Booz  en- 
dormi,"  Festschrift  fur  Eduard  Wechssler,  BB,  I  (1929),  63-72, 
contributed  to  the  testimonial  volume  for  an  historically-minded 
colleague  simply  a  stylistic  interpretation  of  this  poem  of  Victor 
Hugo.  Heiss'  opinion,  like  Spitzer's,  is  that  stylistic  interpreta- 
tion is  at  the  same  time  the  intrinsic  explanation  of  the  meaning 
of  a  poem,  whereas  the  sponsors  of  the  French  explications  did 
not  think  so.  Hanns  Heiss  — 42 —  "Victor  Hugos  Gedicht  vom 
Spinnrad  der  Qmphale,,,  ANS,  XCVIII  (1934),  60-76,  becomes 
still  more  programmatic  by  dismembering  the  organism  of  the 
poem  Le  rouet  d'Omphale  to  explain  the  symbolism  of  Omphale's 
spinning  wheel  at  rest  as  being  a  reflection  of  Hercules'  indul- 
gence in  unheroic  love,  made  all  the  more  odious  by  the  pictures 
of  heroic  deeds  surrounding  him.  These  serious  interpretations, 
accompanied  by  some  slight  historical  and  comparative  informa- 
tion, rapprochements,  and  everything  necessary  for  an  objec- 
tive approach,  seemed  to  penetrate  their  subject  "synchronical- 
ly,"  as  one  said  with  the  new  term  of  Saussurian  linguistics.  A 
detering  example  of  this  type  of  work,  however,  is  M.  ALLENS- 
PACH's  study  — 43 —  "Victor  Hugo,  'Le  Semeur'  und  seine 
Sterne,"  ZFS,  LX  (1937),  195-212,  because  he  spoils  his  whole 
explication  by  making  fun  of  the  rhymes  voiles  and  etoiles,  be- 
lieving, for  having  found  them  elsewhere  in  Hugo's  work,  that 
he  is  entitled  to  ridicule  them  as  an  exterior  trick.  Each  inter- 
preter jeopardizes  his  high  function  when  playing  the  school- 
master and  replacing  empathy  by  pedantry. 

The  next  step  in  interpretation  was  that  of  singling  out  the 
central  element  of  a  style  in  order  to  explain  everything  thereby. 
Thus,  the  wave  movement  of  Claudel's  "Grande  ode,"  La  Muse 
qui  est  la  Grace,  caused  Leo  SPITZER  to  discover  through  dif- 
ferent stylistic  devices  a  similar  psychological  vacillation,  i.e.,  a 
consistent  expression  of  the  Christian  forces  in  Claudel  trying 
to  overcome  the  pagan  ones  so  strongly  rooted  in  him. 
But  Spitzer  called  this  controversial  thesis  simply:  — 44 — 
"Interpretation  of  an  Ode  by  Paul  Claudel,"  LLH,  193-236.  It 
is  interesting  that  the  "expressive"  version  which  German 
scholars  gave  the  French  explication  was  accepted  in  France  by 
the  most  objective  "prosodic"  interpreter,  Maurice  GRAMMONT 


8  Explanation  of  Texts  45-48 

— 45 —  "L'homme  entre  deux  ages  et  ses  deux  mai tresses,"  MB, 
397-406.  Grammont,  from  his  specific  metrical  angle,  gives  a 
thorough  interpretation  of  this  famous  Lafontainean  fable,  its 
metre  and  euphony;  makes  a  stylistic  comparison  with  Lafon- 
taine's  predecessors  (Aesop,  Nevelet)  in  treating  this  subject; 
and  stresses  theoretically  the  fact  that  his  interpretation  is  con- 
cerned with  "la  psychologie  et  Tart  du  langage"  or  "la  linguis- 
tique  d'art." 

In  the  University  of  Zurich,  Professor  Theophil  Spoerri  made 
the  method  of  explication  acceptable  for  dissertations.  Hedwig 
RUFF  — 46 —  Die  franzosischen  Brief e  Calvins.  Versuch  einer 
stilistischen  Analyse  (Glarus:  Tschudi,  1937),  is  a  new  type  of 
presentation  in  so  far  as  there  is  not  only  a  synthetic  summary 
of  Calvin's  style  features  as  a  letter  writer  on  the  basis  of  the 
elements  first  singled  out  (juridical  objectivity,  austere  images, 
double  synonyms,  etc.),  but  the  whole  workshop  is  also  laid  open 
to  the  reader  as  letter  after  letter  is  analyzed.  Thus  the  proof 
is  given  that  the  decisive  features  of  interest,  finally  well 
grouped,  were  first  discovered  indiscriminately  and  without  any 
preconceived  idea. 

E.    Extension  of  the  Method  to  the  Middle  Ages 

The  question  whether  such  a  descriptive  analysis — from  the 
modern  viewpoint,  and  without  a  check  on  the  historical  condi- 
tions— was  applicable  to  a  medieval  text  became  a  strong  point 
of  contention  when  Emil  WINKLER  — 47 —  "Von  der  Kunst 
des  Alexiusdichters,"  ZRP,  XLVII  (1927),  588-597,  tried  to 
analyse  this  short  hagiographic  epic  on  an  artistic  basis  only, 
i.e.,  on  what  he  as  a  man  of  the  twentieth  century  felt  about  its 
single  "impressionistic''  style  elements.  Making  a  particular 
point  for  the  Middle  Ages,  E.  R.  CURTIUS  —48—  "Zur  Inter- 
pretation des  Alexiusliedes,"  ZRP,  LVI  (1936),  113-137,  an- 
swered Winkler  that  no  aesthetical  interpretation  concerning 
such  a  remote  century  can  be  done  without  taking  into  considera- 
tion the  historical  conditions  which  at  the  time  informed  the  in- 
terior aesthetics  of  a  work  of  art.  He  proved  that  the  composi- 
tion and  style  of  the  Alexis  based  on  the  number  five  can  be 
neither  recognized  nor  duly  analyzed  and  appreciated  without 
the  knowledge  of  the  medieval  artes  poeticae  and  their  canons  of 
beauty.     Siding  with  Curtius'  viewpoint,  the  final  and  best 


49-58  Extension  to  Hermetic  Texts  9 

Alexius  interpretation  stresses  the  proportions  and  antithesis 
of  the  poem  as  centering  around  the  contrasts  of  bourgeois  family 
ideals  versus  the  imitation  of  Christ.  This  is  Anna  Granville 
HATCHER's  —49—  "The  Old  French  Poem  St.  Alexis:  A 
Mathematical  Demonstration ?,"  Tr  (in  print).  But  that  also 
the  historical  interpretation  can  never  be  given  without  a 
lively  human  interest  in  the  aesthetical  aspect  is  worked  out  in  a 
masterly  interpretation  of  Jauf re  Rudel's  Old  Provencal  poetry : 
Leo  SPITZER  —50—  "L'amour  lointain  de  Jaufre  Rudel  et  le 
sens  de  la  poesie  des  troubadours,"  UNCS,  V  (Chapel  Hill,  1944) , 
a  discussion  with  Grace  FRANK  about  her  article  on  the  same 
subject,  —51—  MLN,  LVII  (1942),  528-534 

F.    Extension  to  Hermetic  Texts 

It  goes  without  saying  that  any  modern  approach  to  a  par- 
ticularly formal  and  difficult  or  obscure  poet  had  to  make  the 
explication  de  textes  the  center  of  the  whole  study.  The  first 
remarkable  work  of  this  type  by  Albert  THIBAUPET  —52— 
La  poesie  de  Stephane  Mallarme  (Paris:  Gallimard,  1913)  ac- 
tually is  nothing  but  an  artistic  explanation  of  difficult  texts ;  the 
same  holds  true  for  the  study  by  Theophil  SPOERRI  — 53 — 
"Zur  Dichtung  Paul  Valerys,"  SRu  (July  1928),  later  trans- 
formed into  a  book :  — 54 —  Praludium  zur  Poesie,  Einfuhrung 
in  die  Deutung  des  dichterischen  Kunstwerks  (Berlin,  1929). 
The  principle  involved  is  that  hermetic  poems  have  to  undergo  a 
stylistic  analysis  as  the  first  step  to  their  understanding.  It  was 
wisely  and  in  an  original  way  applied  in  the  footsteps  of  Thi- 
baudet,  by  Kurt  WAIS  — 55—  Mallarme,  Ein  Dichter  des  Jahr- 
hmuiertendes  (Munchen:  Beck,  1938). 

Taking  a  single  poem,  Theophil  SPOERRI  — 56 —  tTber  ein 
Sonett  Mallarmes,"  in  FET,  267-274,  was  able  to  solve  the  riddle 
of  Victorieusement  fui.  This  sonnet  had  been  made  still  more 
obscure  than  it  was  by  statements  that  it  meant  "the  battle  of 
Actium"  (Poizat),  or  "the  poet's  triumph  over  the  sun  at  his 
desk  at  night"  (Thibaudet).  Now  Spoerri  interprets  the  text 
as  flight  from  the  temptation  of  suicide  by  an  inner  overcoming 
of  the  illusion  of  life.  Spoerri's  study  supersedes  Victor 
KLEMPERER's  —57—  "Victorieusement  fui  .  .  .  ,"  GRM,  XV 
(1927) ,  286-302.  Wallace  FOWLIE  —58—  "Mallarme's  Island 
Voyage,"  MP,  XLVII  (1950),  178-190,  gives  a  decisive  and  pro- 


10  Explanation  of  Texts  59-64 

found  interpretation  of  the  "Prose  pour  Des  Esseintes,"  under- 
scoring the  preciosity  of  the  language  which  conceals  behind  the 
symbol  of  an  island  the  concept  of  the  separation  from  the 
familiar.  The  poem  as  an  incantation  and  abstraction  from  life 
conceals  behind  the  symbol  of  the  traveler  the  concept  of  the 
poet  as  a  man  in  an  unusual  pose  and  setting.  There  is  in  these 
fifty-six  lines  Mallarme's  whole  Ars  poetica. 

A  still  more  elaborate  and  circumstantiated  interpretation  is 
Claude  ROULET  — 59 —  Elucidation  du  poeme  de  Stephane 
Mallarme:  Un  coup  de  des  jamais  n'abolira  le  hasard  (Neu- 
chatel:  Griffon,  1949).  Mile  Roulet's  interpetation  of  Mal- 
larme analyst  interprets  this  poem  as  the  metamorphosis  of  the 
ages  and  the  great  cataclysm  in  which  finally  the  sea  engulfs 
God.  She  presents  a  kind  of  interlinear  prose  version  checked  on 
another  variation  of  the  same  theme,  A  la  nue  accablante  tu. 
Scholia  offer  the  comment  on  the  subtleties,  and  a  fine  study  on 
structure  presents  the  poem  as  a  pyramid  (115-122).  This  is 
much  too  elaborate  an  effort  to  cope  with  Mallarme's  oddities. 
Claude  Roulet  — 60 —  Elements  de  poetique  mallarmeenne 
d'apres  le  poeme  'Un  coup  de  des  jamais  n'abolira  le  hasard' 
(Neuchatel:  Griffon,  1947),  continues  the  previous  inter- 
pretation (No.  59)  by  methodical  considerations,  which  are 
again  supplemented  by  C.  Roulet  — 61 —  Version  du  poeme  de 
Mallarme:  'Un  coup  de  des  jamais  n'abolira  le  hasard'  (Neu- 
chatel: Griffon,  1949).  Mile.  Roulet's  interpretation  of  Mal- 
larme's symbols  was  questioned  by  Svend  JOHANSEN  — 62 — 
"Le  Probleme  d'un  coup  de  des,"  OL,  III  (1945),  182-313.  Despite 
Johansen's  sober  warning,  the  wild  virtuoso  explication  of 
Robert  Greer  COHN  — 63 —  Mallarme's  Un  coup  de  des:  An 
Exegesis.  Diss.  Yale:  A  Yale  French  Studies  Publication,  1949, 
went  much  further  than  Claude  Roulet.  Here  the  explanation 
of  the  poem  is  given  as  the  cosmic,  successive  unfolding  from 
unity  to  duality,  from  duality  to  multiplicity,  and  from  multi- 
plicity again  to  unity  or  nothingness — all  these  phases  being  re- 
tained in  simultaneousness  by  the  poetical  work  of  art.  This 
explanation,  doubtful  in  its  philosophical  implications,  aptly 
describes  Mallarme's  work:  "Spiraling-in  of  successive  ap- 
proximations. The  armature  .  .  .  progressively  receives  bits 
of  vocabulary  and  imagery,  rather  as  the  stem  of  a  plant  ex- 
pands into  foliage"  (p.  8) . 

Henry  A.  GRUBBS  —64—  "Mallarme's  Ptyx  Sonnet:   An 


65-69  Italian  Methods  11 

Analytical  and  Critical  Study,"  PMLA,  LXV  (1950),  75-89,  gives 
to  the  sonnet,  "Ses  purs  ongles  tres  haut  dediant  leur  onyx,"  the 
interpretation  of  a  sonnet  about  "writing  a  sonnet."  The  proof 
is  given  with  the  aid  of  an  earlier  poem,  "La  nuit  approbatrice 
allume  les  ongles,"  and  Mallarme's  own  suggestions.  The  mean- 
ing is  not  easily  recognizable,  because  the  connotative  elements 
are  steeped  in  the  imagery  of  anguish  and  emptiness  at  night  in 
a  drawing  room  through  whose  windows  the  Great  Bear  is  re- 
flected in  the  mirror — the  whole  absorbed  by  the  vast  mystery 
of  the  universe,  to  all  of  which  the  rhythmical  and  melodious 
uncouth  elements  provide  "a  cabalistic  feeling."  With  all  the 
ingenuity  of  this  interpretation  one  is  inclined  to  ask  the  inter- 
preters of  Mallarme's  "pure  poetry":  Quousque  tandem?  It  is 
impossible  to  enumerate  here  all  the  Mallarme  and  Valery 
studies,  although  all  of  them  may  be  explanations  by  definition, 
but  of  extreme  poetic  material.  Here  may  be  mentioned  only 
that  V explication  de  textes  has  become  today  a  highly  academic 
affair  in  France,  through  the  creation  of  "la  chaire  d'histoire  des 
creations  litteraires  en  France"  entrusted  to  Jean  POMMIER, 
who  gave  his  inaugural  lecture  on  — 65 —  Paul  Valery  et  la  crea- 
tion litteraire  (Paris:  Encyclopedic  francaise,  1946). 

G.     Italian  Methods 

In  Italy  the  method  of  stylistic  explanation  is  spreading  now 
into  the  scholarly  works  on  Dante  after  having  started  half  a 
century  ago  in  the  analytical  Lecturae  Dantis.  These  lectures 
were  delivered  in  Or  San  Michele  in  Florence  and  were  then 
published  as  a  series.  LuiGl  VALLI  — 66 —  La  struttura  morale 
deU'Universo  Dantesco  (Roma:  Ausonia,  1935),  analyzes  in  his 
own  work  based  on  this  method  Inferno  4,  6,  8,  26;  Purgatorio 
2,  3,  16,  23,  32,  ard  Paradiso  4,  7,  18,  19,  31.  Good  examples  of 
a  continued  explication  de  textes  made  on  Dante's  Paradiso  are 
found  in  Umberto  COSMO  — 67 —  U ultima  ascesa,  Introduzione 
alia  lettura  del  Paradiso  (Bari:  Laterza,  1936),  and  on  all  of 
the  — 68 —  Divina  Commedia  in  the  commentaries  to  the  edition 
by  Attilio  MOMIGLIANO  (Firenze:  Sansoni,  1945-47),  3 
vols.  One  of  the  most  perfect  stylistic  analyses  of  Inferno  VII 
was  made  by  Giovanni  GETTO  —69 —  "Lettura  di  un  canto," 
in  his  Aspetti  delta  poesia  di  Dante  (Firenze:  Sansoni,  1947). 
Getto  connects  closely  the  stylistic  and  structural  phenomena 


12  Explanation  of  Texts  70-77 

and  proves  the  objectivity  of  his  interpretation  by  their  mutual, 
demonstrable  relation.    He  is  also  known  as  a  Tasso  interpreter. 

Such  stylistic  explanations  have  been  extended  to  other 
authors:  to  Ariosto  by  M.  FIORONI  — 70 —  Orlando  Furioso 
con  commentario  e  analisi  estetiche  dei  singoli  canti  (Lanciano: 
Carabba,  1935),  and  to  Manzoni  by  V.  GIORDANO  —71—  Com- 
mento  estetico  del  Promessi  Sposi  (Francavilla  Fontana:  Zac- 
caria,  1936).  The  work  of  doing  such  analyses  in  small  instruc- 
tive samples  was  started  and  is  now  being  continued  by  Andrea 
GUSTARELLI  in  his  Paggine  analizzate.  Gustarelli  added  to 
earlier  explanations  of  Tasso  and  other  authors,  e.g.  — 72 — 
Leonardo  da  Vinci.  Alcune  paggine  analizzate  (Milano:  Val- 
lardi,  1939).  On  a  more  scholarly  level  appears  Fausto  MON- 
TANARI  —73—  "Pianto  antico,"  CN,  I  (194,1),  221-226,  where 
it  is  seen  that  the  greatness  of  this  poem  by  Carducci  consists  in 
the  sacrifice  of  each  individual  sentiment  whose  verbal  expres- 
sion would  have  been  incompatible  with  the  character  of  the 
type  of  universal  poetic  language  which  Carducci  felt  bound  to 
use.  In  a  similar  way  ROBERTO  BATTAGLIA  — 74 —  "La  can- 
zone alia  notte  di  Bernardo  Tasso,"  CN,  II  (1942),  81-86,  sees 
the  art  of  this  poem  in  the  suggestions  arising  from  its  vague- 
ness, despite  its  composition  by  extremes,  i.e.,  elements  too  elabo- 
rate and  too  easy. 

While  all  these  explanations  in  Italy  have  no  proper  method, 
the  classical  philologist,  Giacomo  DEVOTO,  with  the  most 
modern  stylistic  approach,  analyzed  a  contemporary  work :  Carlo 
Emilio  Gadda's  II  castello  di  Udine,  under  the  title  of  — 75 — 
"Studi  di  stilistica  italiana,"  ANP,  serie  2,  vol.  V,  fasc.  3  (1936), 
187-200  (see  no.  1494).  C.  E.  GADDA  states  the  correctness  of 
this  explication  in  his  answer  to  G.  Devoto,  saying  that  his  critic 
had  discovered  style  features  of  which  he  had  never  been  aware 
and  which  actually  existed  in  his  own  novel.  A  similar  exper- 
ience was  granted  to  Leo  Spitzer,  years  ago,  when  Henri  Bar- 
busse  and  other  French  authors  stated  that  his  analyses  of  their 
work  was  perfectly  correct,  although  not  flattering.  Gadda's 
answer  bears  the  title:  — 76 —  "Postille  a  una  analisi  stilistica," 
L,  I   (1937),  143-148. 

Finally,  Italy  has  also  produced  a  pedagogical  explanation  in 
the  French  sense,  with  RlNO  BRAMBATI  — 77 —  Avviamento 
aW  analisi  letteraria  e  alia  critica  (Roma:  Edizioni  Roma,  1936). 
The   collection   contains   texts   from    San    Francesco,    Rinaldo 


78-83  Spanish  and  Portuguese  Methods  13 

cT Aquino,  and  Dante,  up  to  Foscolo,  Leopardi,  Carducci  and  Pas- 
col  i.  But  the  texts  are  held  to  previously  established  categories 
such  as  descriptions,  oratory,  simplicity,  contrast,  nature  poetry, 
cosmic  poetry,  musicality,  etc.  Alfredo  PANZINI  ed  Augusto 
VICINELLI  — 78 —  La  parola  e  la  vita.  Dalla  Grammatica  all9 
analisi  stilistica  e  letteraria  (Milano:  Mondadori,  1948),  is  a 
more  modern  type  of  introduction  to  the  comprehension  of  style 
and  stylistic  analysis.  Excellently  chosen  examples,  partly 
analyzed  by  students,  are  reminiscent  of  the  French  work  by 
Servais  Etienne  (no.  20).  Examples  are  also  offered  in  form  of 
comparative  material  with  aids  for  the  interpretation.  There 
are  very  good  definitions  of  style  problems  (p.  202). 

H.     Spanish  and  Portuguese  Methods 

As  far  as  the  Spanish  field  of  explication  is  concerned,  one  of 
the  best  types  is  offered  by  Amado  ALONSO  — 79 —  Poesia  y 
estilo  de  Pablo  Neruda.  Interpretation  de  una  poesia  hermetica 
(Buenos  Aires:  Losada,  1940;  2nd  edition  1951).  Alonso  intro- 
duces the  reader  into  the  aesthetic  difficulties  of  an  obscure 
modern  author  of  the  Mallarme  type.  Although  he  gives  much 
more  than  an  analysis,  working  it  out  to  an  impressive  syn- 
thesis of  the  elements  of  modernistic  style,  the  interpretations 
are  the  center  of  his  study.  In  one  example,  the  poet  writes: 
Tu  estds  (de  pie  sobre  la  tierra) ,  llena  de  dientes  y  reldmpagos. 
The  philologist  discovers  the  beauty  and  trick  of  such  sugges- 
tions and  vague  constructions  with  his  translation:  Estds  lleva 
de  risas  en  las  que  muestras  tus  blancos  dientes,  y  se  entreabren 
tus  labios  con  reldmpagos  de  purpura  (p.  174) .  Amado  Alonso's 
introduction  to  the  difficulties  of  Pablo  Neruda  is  comparable  to 
Emile  BOUVIER  — 80 —  Initiation  a  la  litterature  d 'aujourd'hui 
(Paris:  La  Renaissance  du  livre,  Cours  elementaire  1927,  Cours 
Moyen  1931),  also  centered  around  interpretations  of  hermetic 
texts.    Alonso  however  is  less  pedantic  and  more  ingenious. 

The  Spanish  interpretations  of  obscure  texts  found  their  aes- 
thetic inauguration  with  the  edition  of  Damaso  ALONSO  — 81 — 
Las  soledades  de  Gongora  (Madrid,  1927;  second  ed.  1936). 
Additional  remarks  were  contributed  by  Leo  SPITZER  — 82 — 
"Zu  Gongoras  Soledades,"  KRA,  II  (1931),  126-140,  and  —83— 
"La  soledad  primera  de  G6ngora.  Notas  criticas  y  explicativas 
a  la  nueva  edici6n  de  Damaso  Alonso,"  RFH,  II  (1940),  151-181 


14  Explanation  of  Texts  84-88 

(see  no.  1504).     D.  Alonso  became  the  "interpreter"  par  ex- 
cellence. 

A  consciously  educational  explication  of  the  French  type  has 
been  offered  only  for  Portuguese  by  F.  Costa  MARQUES  — 84 — 
Problemas  da  analise  liter  aria  (Coimbra:  Goncalves,  1948)  ;  he 
uses  the  comparative  method  in  linking  together  related  texts, 
and  surpasses  his  French  models  by  stressing  the  inseparability 
of  content  and  form.  A  wealth  of  first  class  interpretations  of 
poetical  texts  from  the  siglo  de  oro  in  Spain  has  been  embodied 
in  the  theoretical  work  of  Damaso  Alonso,  Poesia  Espafiola  (see 
no.  1455,  also  no.  1504). 

I.     Importance  for  Criticism  and  Literary  History 

It  is  a  curious  fact  that  the  more  exact  an  explication  is,  the 
more  it  leads  to  the  aesthetic  core  and  thus  to  the  enjoyment  of 
poetry.  Therefore,  despite  lamenting  the  incapacity  of  the 
literary  historians  to  feel  and  understand  poetry,  Paul  VALeRY 
_85  —"Questions  de  poesie,"  NRF,  XLIV  ( Janvier- Juin,  1935), 
53-70.  recommends  the  explication  as  a  modernisation  of  the 
rhetorics  and  scholia  of  the  ancients,  and  the  only  means  of  pre- 
cision in  the  attempt  to  understand  poems  and  to  make  others 
enjoy  them.  Finally  he  considers  the  explication  as  a  means  of 
replacing  the  impressionistic  vagueness  in  criticism: 

"Je  sais  cependant  reconnaitre  que  ces  recherches  que  je  trouve 
peu  fructueuses  ont  du  moins  le  merite  de  poursuivre  la  pre- 
cision.    L'intention  en  est  excellente"  (p.  59). 

All  the  implications  involved  in  the  critical  aspect  of  stylistic 
interpretations  are  summed  up  in  Helmut  HATZFELD  — 86 — 
"Stylistic  Criticism  as  Art-minded  Philology,"  YFS,  II  (194,9), 
62-70. 

The  first  ingenious  attempt  to  make  of  the  explanation  of 
texts  a  truly  convincing  history  of  literature  appeared  in  Gus- 
tave  LANSON  — 87 —  UArt  de  la  prose  (see  no.  35).  It  was 
superseded  by  the  excellent  book  of  Erich  AUERBACH  — 88 — 
Mimesis,  Dargestellte  Wirklichkeit  in  der  abendldndischen  Lit- 
eratur  (Bern:  Francke,  1946).  Auerbach  links  each  text  to  its 
cultural  background,  and  makes  the  changing  spirit  of  the  time 
responsible  for  the  change  in  the  flux  of  realistic  style.    He  gives 


S8  Importance  for  Criticism  15 

profound  insights  into  the  art  of  Homer,  Tacitus,  la  Chanson  de 
Roland,  Chretien  de  Troyes,  Saint  Francis  of  Assisi,  Boccaccio, 
Rabelais,  La  Bruyere,  Abbe  Prevost,  Stendhal,  Flaubert,  Proust 
and  many  others  (see  RPh,  II  (1949),  333-338). 


CHAPTER  II 

Arts  of  Writing  and  Textbooks  on  Stylistics 

A.    "Arts  d'ecrire" 

The  same  point  of  departure — education  in  literary  taste — 
which  was  adopted  for  the  explication  de  textes  characterizes 
the  methodology  of  books  on  the  art  of  writing  and  school  stylis- 
tics. With  admirable  skill,  these  works  try  to  offer  norms  for  an 
elegant  style  and  canons  for  an  artistic  language  with  which  one 
may  appraise  the  achievements  of  good  writers.  It  is  sufficient 
to  mention  a  few  works  constantly  reedited,  like  the  one  by 
Antonin  VANNIER  — 89 —  La  clarte  frangaise  (Paris :  Nathan, 
1920),  or  the  studies  by  Antoine  ALBALAT.  The  number  of 
editions  reached  by  the  books  of  Albalat  reveals  the  interest  of 
the  French  public  in  verbal  art.  These  useful  books  did  not  de- 
serve the  rebuke  of  Brunetiere  and  Faguet  in  1905,  as  they  do 
not  deserve  the  very  witty  insult  which  the  Normaliens  of  today 
aim  at  them  with  the  parody  of  Moreas :  Albalat,  Albalat,  morne 
plaine.  The  titles  of  his  main  works  are :  — 90 —  L'art  d'ecrire 
enseigne  en  vingt  legons  (Paris:  Colin,  1899),  — 91 —  La  forma- 
tion du  style  par  V assimilation  des  auteurs  (Paris:  Colin,  1902), 
— 92 —  Le  travail  du  style  enseigne  par  les  corrections  manu- 
scrites  des  grands  ecrivains  (Paris:  Colin,  1911),  — 93 — -  Com- 
ment il  faut  lire  les  auteurs  classiques  frangais  (Paris:  Colin, 
1913) ,  — 94 —  Comment  il  ne  faut  pas  ecrire  (Paris :  Plon,  1921) , 
— 95 —  Comment  on  devient  ecrivain  (Paris:  Plon,  1925).  Be- 
ginning always  with  model  authors,  Albalat  attempts  to  reach, 
by  abstraction  and  elimination,  a  sort  of  essential  determination 
of  style,  literary  genre,  artistic  literary  history,  literary  criticism, 
correct  translations  of  foreign  literary  works,  etc. 

The  original  little  book  of  Frederic  DE  BELINAY  —96— 
La  source,  initiation  a  Vart  d'ecrire  (Paris:  Beauchesne,  1924), 
scrutinizes  the  aesthetical  values  of  the  details:  the  connection 
of  words,  of  syllables,  of  vowels  and  consonants. 

The  six  letters  of  the  writer  Abel  HERMANT  —97—  Lettres 
a  Xavier  sur  Vart  d'ecrire  (Paris:  Hachette,  1926),  offer  not  so 
much  a  systematic  exposition  as  a  light  chat  on  French  style. 
The  book  by  Jules  PAYOT  — 98 —  L'apprentissage  de  Vart 


39-105  Stylistics  17 

d'ecrire  (Paris :  Colin,  1913) ,  is  elementary  and  exclusively  peda- 
gogical. So  are  A.  DION  — 99 —  L'Art  d'ecrire  (Quebec,  1911) 
and  many  others  with  the  same  title,  serving  practical  purposes. 
LANSON  in  his  youth  did  not  scorn  writing  one :  — 100 —  Con- 
seils  sur  Vart  d'ecrire  (Paris,  1890). 

Interesting  is  the  attempt  at  a  scientific  art  d'ecrire,  by  the 
astronomer  Abbe  Th.  MOREUX  — 101 —  Science  et  style  (Paris : 
Doin,  1930),  where  style  is  conceived  as  a  sort  of  exact  science, 
logic,  and  common  sense.  It  offers  certain  fundamental  rela- 
tions, like  le  mot  propre  et  V 'exactitude ,  la  phrase  et  la  clarte,  le 
role  du  substantif,  V elegance  et  le  bon  gout.  Bernard  GRASSET 
—102 —  Les  chemins  de  Vecriture  (Paris:  Grasset,  1942),  has 
seen  that  all  the  techniques  of  teaching  style  are  meaningless  if 
separated  from  the  thought  which  they  are  bound  to  express. 
Thus  he  was  aware  of  an  important  modern  problem.  None  the 
less  the  French  as  the  ideal  heirs  of  the  ancient  rhetoricians  and 
the  medieval  artes  poeticae  continue  their  production  of  style 
manuals,  but  with  a  greater  refinement,  as  can  be  seen  from 
more  recent  titles  like:  Paul  REBOUX  — 103 —  Petits  secrets 
de  Vart  d'ecrire  (Oran :  Tari,  1946) ,  or  Arsene  SOREIL  —104— 
Entretiens  sur  Vart  d'ecrire  (Paris:  Baude,  1946).  These  Arts 
d'ecrire  recognize,  like  the  famous  pasticheur  Reboux,  that 
with  one's  natural  personal  style  one  still  can  "learn"  to  be  inde- 
pendent like  Mme.  Colette,  clear  like  the  Princess  Bibesco,  lively 
like  Mme.  Sevigne,  equitable  like  Jacques  de  Lacretelle,  sens- 
ible like  Andre  Gide,  harmonious  like  Pierre  Louys,  short  like 
Jules  Renard,  sober  like  H.  Barbusse,  "spirituel"  like  A.  France, 
pathetic  like  Maupassant,  "evocateur"  like  A.  Daudet,  and  great 
like  G.  Flaubert.  Among  the  imitations  of  these  French  pat- 
terns is  a  rather  original  Italian  book  by  G.  MARI  — 105 — 
L'arte  dello  scrivere  (Milano:  Hoepli,  1929),  written  "affinche 
il  lettore  conosca  tutte  le  barriere  (da)  superare"  (p.  4). 

B.    Stylistics 

1.     French,  Spanish  and  Portuguese 

From  a  theoretical  point  of  view,  the  bell  seems  to  toll  for  the 
arts  dfecrire  in  consideration  of  the  sharp  distinction  made  be- 
tween mannerism  and  style.  The  Croce-Vosslerian  concept  of 
style,  according  to  which  the  art  of  writing  can  be  "true"  only  if 
it  is  the  necessary  and  unique  expression  of  psychological  con- 


18  Arts  of  Writing  106-110 

ditions  in  a  writer,  would  practically  exclude  the  imitation  of 
authors  as  a  lame  counterfeit,  an  external  trick  in  which  the 
very  core  and  heart  are  lacking.  More  than  ever  before,  the 
psychological-aesthetical  method  has  made  clear  that  le  style 
est  de  I'homme  meme.  That  was  understood  in  the  Spanish 
world.  Amado  ALONSO  has  pointed  out  this  problem  in  a  su- 
perior and  exhaustive  manner :  — 106 —  "Carta  a  Alfonso  Reyes 
sobre  la  Estilistica,"  N  (9  de  febrero,  1941).  In  Spain  the  new 
stylistic  method  shows  a  remote  reflection  in  Martin  ALONSO 
— 107 —  Ciencia  del  lenguaje  y  arte  de  estilo  (Madrid,  Aguilar, 
1947),  particularly  in  the  third  part,  Estilistica,  pp.  229-410, 
which  refers  to  Amado  Alonso,  and  to  all  the  aspects  of  modern 
style  investigation. 

But  we  must  hasten  to  make  clear  that  there  is  not  only  an 
artistic,  but  also  an  affective  concept  of  style  and  its  selective 
use.  Not  only  do  the  literary  artefacts  have  a  style,  but  also 
the  common  languages  and  the  non-artistic  individual  speeches. 
This  concept  of  style  is  the  object  of  Charles  Bally's  stylistique 
as  opposed  to  literary  stylistics.  Charles  BALLY  — 108 — 
Precis  de  stylistique  (Geneva:  Eggimann,  1905),  and  — 109 — 
Traite  de  stylistique  francaise,  2  vols.  (Heidelberg :  Winter,  1902 ; 
2nd  edition,  1919-1921;  3d  ed.,  1951),  underscored  for  the  first 
time  the  emotional-expressive  elements  in  ordinary  language.  He 
has  the  merit  of  having  preceded  Vossler  and  Spitzer  in  modern 
stylistics.  He  follows  an  idea  of  Gustav  Grober,  who  distin- 
guished already  between  objective  and  subjective  language,  and 
the  distinction  between  langue  and  parole  as  made  by  De  Saus- 
sure.  Bally's  formula,  which  revolutionized  traditional  stylistics 
and  made  it  a  worthy  branch  of  linguistics,  not  of  literature,  is 
this: 

La  stylistique  etudie  .  .  .  les  faits  d'expression  du  langage  du 
point  de  vue  de  leur  contenu  affectif,  c'est-a-dire  l'expression  des 
faits  de  la  sensibilite  par  le  langage  (I,  2nd  ed.,  p.  16). 

Bally,  the  Swiss,  has  reached  full  acknowledgment  in  France 
where  modern  treatises  follow  him  closely :  J.  MAROUZEAU 
— 110 —  Precis  de  stylistique  frangaise  (Paris:  Masson,  1941, 
2nd  edition  1946)  is  a  survey  of  the  peculiarities  of  any  form  of 
an  enonce  as  to  sounds,  spelling,  form,  syntax,  vocabulary,  sen- 
tence, word  order  and  rhythm.  The  contribution  of  Marouzeau, 
a  classical  scholar,  is  the  replacement  of  the  older  concept  of 


111-116  Stylistics  19 

stylistics  as  "une  sorte  de  code  du  bon  francais"  by  a  modern 
study  of  "Pattitude  que  prend  l'usage,  ecrivant  ou  parlant,  vis-a- 
vis du  materiel  que  la  langue  lui  fournit,"  his  doubtful  aim  being 
to  "faire  la  psychologie  de  l'auteur  de  Penonce."  He  falls,  on  an 
unaesthetical  level,  into  the  same  trap  into  which  Spitzer  goes  on 
a  literary-aesthetical  level:  a  meta-stylistics  which,  leaving  the 
linguistic  phenomenon,  engages  itself  in  a  kind  of  philosophical 
anthropology.  E.  LE GRAND  — 111 —  Methode  de  stylistique 
francaise  (Paris:  De  Gigord,  1939,  8th  edition  1949),  less  pre- 
tentious, stresses  that  in  an  age  where  the  good  writers  are  read 
very  little — even  in  France,  literary  par  excellence — interest 
must  be  stimulated  by  a  systematic  introduction  into  their  means 
of  expression.  All  this  seems  to  suggest  that  in  France  the  de- 
cision for  the  linguistic  Bally-type  of  stylistics  versus  the  literary 
Vossler-type  has  been  made.  The  leader  Charles  Bruneau  does 
not  leave  any  doubt  about  it. 

J.  MAROUZEAU  —112—  "Stylistique  comparee,"  IL,  I 
(1949),  98-101,  opens  new  vistas  upon  the  usefulness  of  compar- 
ing Latin  and  French  speech  habits  from  the  affective  angle. 
Bally' s  type  of  stylistique,  as  considering  preferably  words,  syno- 
nyms, phraseology,  metaphor  and  construction,  was  able  to  be  re- 
fined by  its  application  to  literature:  Marcel  CRESSOT  — 113 — 
Le  style  et  ses  techniques  (Paris:  Presses  Universitaires,  1947), 
actually  includes  artistic  problems,  e.g.,  Le  mot  symbole  d'une 
notion  (pp.  37-55),  Integration  du  mot  dans  la  pensee  (pp.  83- 
162),  and  Le  rythme  de  la  phrase  (pp.  215-228).  An  excellent, 
and  also  more  practical  modern  literary  stylistics,  evidently 
dominated  by  the  Bally-Marouzeau-Cressot  trends,  is  Henri  J. 
G.  GODIN  — 114 —  Les  ressources  stylistiques  du  frangais  con- 
temporain  (Oxford:  Blackwell,  1948).  Godin  shows  how  modern 
authors  handle  in  the  most  individual  manner,  syntax  and  lexi- 
con, phraseology  and  figures  of  speech,  how  differently  they 
represent  the  same  topic,  and  to  what  extent  stylistic  problems 
can  be  clarified  by  the  comparison  of  an  original  text  with  its 
translation.  Thus  Godin's  study  corresponds  to  the  old  program 
of  Charles  BALLY  — 115 —  U etude  systematique  des  moyens 
dy  expression  (Geneva:  Eggimann,  1910),  but  expands  to  the 
literary-artistic  sector  of  affective-imaginative  language.  Mod- 
ern stylistic  adepts  lack  technical  terms  to  discuss  their  prob- 
lems and  to  circumscribe  their  findings.  Therefore  Heinrich 
LAUSBERG  — 116 —  Elemente  der  literarischen  Rhetorik.  Eine 


20  Arts  of  Writing  117-119 

Einfiihrung  fur  Studierende  der  romanischen  Philologie.  (Mun- 
ich: Hueber,  1949),  was  wise  in  presenting  a  sound  basic  ter- 
minology for  any  kind  of  stylistic  studies,  revamping  the  tradi- 
tional tropes  and  figures  with  Latin  and  French  examples.  His 
reasonable  concern  is  that  without  a  minimum  of  terms  agreed 
upon,  the  interpretatio  moderna,  however  artistic  or  stylistic  (he 
says  "stilsprachlich"  with  contemptuous  quotation  marks)  it 
may  be,  becomes  an  aesthetical  game  without  any  orientation  of 
philological  seriousness. 

A  Portuguese  philologist  of  renown,  Manuel  RODRIGUEZ 
LAPA  — 117 —  Estilistica  da  lingua  portuguesa  (Lisboa:  Seara 
Nova,  1945) ,  uses  Bally  selectively  and  combines  his  method  with 
those  of  Amado  Alonso  and  Spitzer.  Points  of  interest  in  this 
book  are  word-fantasy,  plurality  of  means  of  expression,  evoca- 
tive efforts,  intellectual  and  affective  values  of  the  adjective,  and 
stylistic  effects  of  the  concordance  of  the  participle.  For  this 
latter  case  he  discusses  the  variants  of  a  famous  strophe  of  the 
Lusiadas  describing  the  march  of  Leonor  de  Sepulveda  through 
the  African  desert: 

Despois  de  ter  pisado    (pisada)    longamente   dos   delicados  pes   a 
area  ardente. 

He  makes  his  decision  in  favor  of  the  feminine  form,  because 
only  the  feminine  form  anticipating  area  ardente  suggests  the 
vision  of  the  immense  desert,  exactly  what  the  author  wants  to 
emphasize. 

2.    Rumanian  and  Italian 

It  is  amazing  that  the  modern  concept  of  the  problem  of  style 
had  been  pointed  out  in  masterly  fashion  as  early  as  1888  in  a 
little  Rumanian  treatise,  existing  in  the  New  York  Public  Li- 
brary, but  practically  unknown :  Eduard  GRUBER  — 118—  Stil 
§i  gindire.  Incercare  de  psihologie  Uterara  (Iasi:  Fratti  Saragna, 
1888) .  More  than  half  a  century  later  one  of  the  once  leading 
Rumanian  philologists,  Iorgu  IORDAN  — 119 —  Stilistica  Limbii 
Romdne  (Bucuresti:  Institutul  de  linguistica  romana,  1944), 
handled  the  same  problem  with  modern  equipment.  He,  too, 
like  Lapa,  combines  the  approach  of  Bally  with  that  of  Spitzer 
by  adding  to  the  emotional  the  fanciful  elements  in  the  speech  of 
his  country.  Actually,  without  saying  so,  he  follows  the  prin- 
ciple of  the  syntactician,  Eugen  Lerch,  as  he  looks  stylistically 


120-124  Appraisal  of  Details  21 

at  phenomena  like  accent,  sound,  phonetic  symbolism,  rhythm, 
the  parts  of  the  sentence,  morphology,  syntax,  word  formation 
and  vocabulary,  topoi,  repetition,  ellipses  and  proverbs.  His 
material  comes  from  direct  observation  as  well  as  from  popular 
authors  like  Caragiale  and  Creanga.  If  we  include  in  the  list  of 
modern  stylistics  the  Italian  elementary  sketch  by  B.  MIGLIO- 
RINI  e  F.  CHIAPELLI  —120—  Lingua  e  stile  (Firenze:  Le 
Monnier,  1948),  which  has  been  made  a  still  better  textbook 
under  the  title  — 121 —  Elementi  di  stilistica  e  di  versificazione 
italiana  (lb.,  1950),  we  can  state  in  brief  that  the  leading  Ro- 
mance scholars  in  Germany,  Switzerland,  Italy,  France,  Spain, 
Portugal,  and  Rumania  have  recognized  and  emphasized  the  im- 
portance of  modern  stylistics.  The  classical  philologists  do  not 
think  differently  today  about  the  problem  of  style.  Frank  Russel 
Earp,  Professor  Emeritus  of  the  University  of  London:  The 
Style  of  Sophocles  (Cambridge:  Univ.  Press,  1944),  says  (pp. 
1-2)  for  example : 

We  can  isolate  and  analyze  most  of  the  elements  of  which  a 
style  is  composed.  The  choice  and  use  of  words,  the  sound  of  them 
separately  and  in  combination,  the  order  of  words,  the  structure 
of  clause  and  sentence,  the  use  of  figures  of  speech  and  thought; 
all  these  can  be  analyzed.  But  the  final  secret  lies  not  in  them 
but  in  the  way  they  are  used  and  blended  and  related  to  the  thought. 

In  other  words,  style  studies  must  be  linked  to  structure  studies. 

C.    Appraisal  of  Details  of  the  Art  of  Writing 

What  still  remains  interesting  is  the  discussion  by  clever 
critics  of  certain  stylistic  propensities  of  great  writers  in  little 
things,  which  in  minor  writers  would  be  faults.  One  of  the 
pedantic  attempts  is  CRITICUS  (Marcel  Berger)  — 122 —  Le 
style  au  microscope  (Paris:  NRF,  1934),  followed  by  — 123 — 
Quatre  etudes  de  style  au  microscope  (Paris:  NRF,  1948),  in- 
cluding Montherlant,  Gide,  Romains,  Genevois.  The  conclusions 
which  Criticus  draws  from  his  method  of  checking  on  the  cor- 
rectness or  incorrectness  of  minutiae,  while  wholly  neglecting 
the  organism  of  the  works  from  which  the  examples  are  taken, 
would  revaluate  the  authors  on  an  almost  absurd  scale.  Criticus 
has  collected  a  third  series,  called  — 124 —  Le  style  au  microscope 
(Paris:  Calmann-Levy,  1949),  dealing  with  Troyat,  Sartre,  Ara- 
gon,  Maurois,  Mauriac,  Salacrou,  Valery  and  other  contempo- 


22  Arts  of  Writing  125-131 

raries.  A  positive  and  convincing  appraisal  of  stylistic  detail 
comes,  however,  from  the  Belgian  poet  Camille  MELLOY 
—125—  "Propos  de  technique  litteraire,"  EC,  IX  (1940),  175- 
192.  These  propos  do  not  make  the  absurd  attempt  to  correct 
but  to  discover  in  the  authors,  even  unknown  ones,  what  is  for 
them  and  not  for  others  une  reussite  stylistique. 

The  Swedish  critic  Ernst  BENDZ,  doing  the  same  type  of 
work,  comes  intrinsically  close  to  the  modern  scholarly  tenden- 
cies, when  in  his  — 126 —  Andre  Gide  et  Vart  d'ecrire  (Paris: 
Messageries  du  livre,  1939),  he  notes  the  author's  typical  words, 
such  as  amour,  desir,  tendresse,  ferveur,  passion,  extase,  vo- 
lupte,  ivresse,  fremissement,  or  underlines  his  habit  of  putting 
long  adverbs  before  adjectives,  such  as  "obstinement  doulou- 
reux," "morbidement  doux,"  or  even  between  verbs  and  their 
objects:  "habiter  eperdument  un  paysage,"  "oter  brusquement 
les  souliers."  He  is  not  interested  in  these  expressions  as  a  mir- 
ror of  Gide's  psychology,  but  just  as  a  stylistically  unique  flavor. 
Bendz  has  done  a  similar  study  on  the  language  of  Valery  — 127 — 
Paid  Valery  et  Vart  de  la  prose  (Goteborg:  Cumpert,  1939), 
where  he  picks  out  sentences  with  comments  such  as  "Se  suivent 
en  trille  gracieuse  la  plupart  des  voyelles  de  la  langue"  (p.  162) . 
Bendz  expanded  recently  his  style  studies,  which  in  Sweden  had 
appeared  in  1928  as  Nutida  fransk  prosakonst,  under  the  title: 
— 128—  Visages  d'ecrivains.  Notes  sur  Gide,  Lacretelle  etc. 
(Paris:  Les  Presses  de  la  Cite,  1948).  Style  proper,  however, 
is  the  concern  of  the  essay  on  Mauriac  only,  pp.  113-132.  Camille 
DUD  AN  — 129 —  Le  Frangais  de  quelques  ecrivains.  Etudes  de 
style  faites  a  Radio-Lausanne  (Bienne:  Chandelier,  1942)  char- 
acterizes briefly  the  typical  expressions  of  twenty-six  authors 
from  Villon  to  Verlaine.  Matila  C.  GHYKA  —130—  Sortileges 
du  verbe  (Paris:  Gallimard,  1949),  talks  about  the  material  a 
good  writer  "should"  use,  stressing  the  suggestive  character  of 
certain  words  and  the  importance  of  metaphors  and  analogies. 
Then  he  proceeds  to  the  types  of  great  symphonic  composition 
represented  by  Mallarme  and  Proust. 

An  Englishman  and  a  Frenchman  together  have  selected 
ninety  representative  passages  and  prefaced  them  with  pertinent 
remarks  on  style  and  the  problem  of  translation  in  order  to  open 
the  eyes  of  the  stylistically  blind :  J.  B.  C.  GRUNDY  and  Maurice 
THIeRY  — 131 —  French  Style  through  Unseens  (London:  G. 
Bell,  1937). 


132-139  "Pastiches"  23 

D.    "Pastiches" 

How  absurd  a  direct  imitation  of  authors  would  be  is  best 
told  by  the  parodies  on  patterns  of  their  style.  Such  a  demon- 
stration made  by  capable  critics  can  be  very  illuminating  since 
exaggerations  are  like  a  magnifying  glass  for  looking  at  genuine 
style.  This  principle  was  brought  home  in  two  books:  Lucien 
REFORT  — 132 —  La  caricature  litteraire  (Paris:  Coll.  Ivoire, 
1932),  and  L.  DEFFOUX  —133—  Le  pastiche  litteraire  des 
origines  a  nos  jours  (Paris:  Delagrave,  1932).  Certain  faits 
divers  are  here  retold  in  the  manner  of  different  authors.  Even 
Marcel  PROUST  —134—  Pastiches  et  melanges  (Paris:  NRF, 
1921)  did  not  despise  this  highly  intelligent  and  artistic  play.  By 
overcharging  the  striking  features  of  a  particular  style  one  can 
learn,  besides  the  fun  which  these  pastiches  carry  with  them, 
exactly  what  is  mannerism  as  opposed  to  real  style  of  spontaneous 
expression.  This  holds  true  even  for  the  humorous  exaggera- 
tions of  Raymond  GUENEAU  — 135 —  Exercices  de  Style 
(Paris:  NRF,  1947)  and  for  the  popular  three  volume  collection 
of  the  classical  literary  parodies  by  Paul  REBOUX  et  Charles 
MULLER  — 136 —  A  la  maniere  de  .  .  .  (Paris:  Grasset,  1925, 
latest  edition  1948).  Other  pastiches  open  the  mind  of  the 
public  at  large  to  literary  criticism,  e.g.  Raymond  RITTER 
— 137 —  Radio-Parnasse.  A  la  maniere  de  Frangois  Mauriac, 
Leon  Daudet,  Francis  Jammes,  et  oVautres  (Paris :  Michel,  1933) . 
The  content  is  overstressed  as  compared  to  form  in  Anonymous 
— 138 —  Faux  en  ecriture,  aux  depens  de  Jean  Paulhan,  Alain, 
Apollinaire,  etc.  (Paris:  Juliard,  1947).  Here  in  thirty-five 
parodied  authors  the  erotical  element  is  somewhat  exploited. 

It  seems  a  good  sign  for  the  stylistic  importance  of  the  lit- 
erary parody,  that  "Les  Pasticheurs"  are  treated  as  "auxiliaires 
de  la  critique"  in  Henri  CLOUARD  — 139 —  Histoire  de  la 
litterature  francaise  du  symbolism e  a  nos  jours,  II,  de  1915  a 
1940  (Paris:  Michel,  1949),  pp.  610-611.  Clouard's  survey  in- 
cludes among  others  Jean  Pellerin,  Le  copiste  indiscret,  Louis 
Martin-Chauffier,  Correspondances  apocryphes,  three  works  of 
Yves  Gandon,  Mascarades  litteraires,  Imageries  critiques,  Usage 
de  faux  and  Georges  Armand  Masson,  A  la  facon  de  .  .  .  Jean 
Anouilh,  Louis  Aragon,  Marcel  Ayme  .  .  .  (Paris:  Ducray,  1949) . 

E.     Collected  Style  Sketches  of  Contemporary 
Authors  in  France,  Italy  and  Spain 

In  a  more  serious  fashion  the  art  of  writing  of  contemporary 


24  Arts  of  Writing  140-144 

authors  has  been  presented  by  means  of  short  characterizations 
in  Yves  GANDON  — 140 —  Le  demon  du  style  (Paris:  Plon, 
1938) .  The  book  treats  of  Gide,  Valery,  Claudel,  Hermant,  Mau- 
riac,  "ou  la  fievre  du  style";  Romains,  Duhamel,  Fargue,  L. 
Daudet,  Giraudoux,  Bonnard,  Carco,  Dorgeles,  "ou  le  style  oral" ; 
Jerome  and  Jean  Tharaud,  Montherlant,  "ou  le  style  a  la  cra- 
vache" ;  and  Colette.  A  similar  work  of  Gandon's  is  Cent  ans  de 
jargon  ou  de  Vecriture  artiste  au  style  canille  (P.:  Haumont, 
1951). 

The  Italian  parallel  consciously  based  on  scholarly,  modern 
analytical  principles  (p.  16),  is  Enrico  FALQUI  — 141 —  Ri- 
cerche  di  Stile  (Firenze:  Calecchi,  1939).  It  presents  Panzini, 
Devoto,  Viani,  Agnoletti,  Rosso  "e  il  colore,"  the  slow  "polputo" 
Pea,  Scoffici  "e  Timpressionismo,"  Palazzeschi;  the  ironical  fu- 
turist, Linati;  Savarese,  Buzzio,  Angelini,  Del  Pizzo,  Landolfi, 
Rossi,  Ortese  "e  la  soavitudine,"  Cicognani  "e  la  prosa  evocativa," 
Moravia,  Zavattini,  Formigari,  Trilussa,  Reusi  "e  Taforismo," 
Scarfoglio,  D'Annunzio,  Natoli,  De  Robertis  and  Govoni  "e  lo 
splendore." 

The  Spanish  attempt  to  analyze  and  to  characterize  modern 
authors  is  Juan  CHABAS  — 142 —  Vuelo  y  estilo  (Madrid:  So- 
ciedad  General  Espanola  de  Libreria,  1934)  Vol.  I  (vols.  II-IV 
later,  s.d.).  In  his  introduction  Chabas  makes  a  good  distinction 
between  estilo  and  estilizacion,  una  voz  de  falsete  (vol.  I,  p.  11). 
Excluding  as  "voz  de  falsete,"  e.g.  Ricardo  Leon,  he  finds  on  the 
other  hand  unique  personal  style  features  in  Gabriel  Mir6,  the 
landscape-painter  with  Valencian  semantics;  Antonio  Machado, 
the  poet  of  a  style  "desnudo,  japones,  de  ensueno,  clasico" ;  Juan 
Ramon  Jimenez,  poet  of  "vibraciones  que  dan  eternidad  a  su 
palabra";  Manuel  Machado,  stylist  of  "nuevos  oleos  liricos  que 
copian  los  originales" ;  and  other  traits  appearing  in  Valle  Inclan, 
Azorin,  Baroja,  Unamuno,  Ortega  y  Gasset,  Perez  de  Ayala, 
Ramon  Gomez  de  la  Serna,  Benavente,  Marquina,  Arniches, 
Gregorio  Martinez  Sierra.  Eugenio  D'ORS  — 143 —  Estilos  de 
Pensar  (Madrid:  Ediciones  espaiiolas,  1945)  is  disillusioning  be- 
cause he  offers  only  generalities  on  Menendez  y  Pelayo,  Juan 
Maragall,  Luis  Vives,  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz  and  Ricardo  Le6n. 
The  same  must  be  said  for  Julien  BENDA  — 144 —  Du  Style 
d'Idees  (Paris:  Gallimard,  1948),  which  is  rather  an  analysis  of 
philosophical  thought  in  certain  writers. 


CHAPTER  III 

Stylistic  Comparison  of  Texts 

A.     Different  Drafts 

The  transition  from  any  appraisal  of  literary  art  to  the  truly 
philological  and  scientific  approach  is  reached  as  soon  as  the 
comparative  method  is  used.  A.  Albalat  (No.  92)  has  convinc- 
ingly shown  what  insights  may  be  derived  from  an  author's  cor- 
rections of  his  own  manuscript.  If  comparative  results  are  not 
fundamentally  philological,  they  are  at  least  an  objective  means 
of  appraising  the  stylistic  usage  of  words  and  locutions.  With 
reference  to  this  method,  one  should  quote  paradigmatically  a 
monograph  by  Franqois  VINCENT  — 145 —  Le  travail  du  style 
chez  Saint  Frangois  de  Sales  (Paris:  Beauchesne,  1923).  Abbe 
Vincent  compares  the  style  of  the  Introduction  a  la  vie  devote  in 
its  final  edition  of  1619  with  the  first  one  of  1609,  and  shows  how 
the  devout  humanist  was  changing  his  almost  flamboyant  style 
into  a  preclassical  style  through  a  more  rigid  concept  of  the 
logical-mental  elements,  by  introducing  a  new  rhythm  into  a 
prose  with  "finales  habilement  bouclees  et  bien  tombantes,"  and 
finally,  by  a  more  intense  poetization  of  the  original  images 
through  a  transformation  of  certain  similes  into  condensed  meta- 
phors. The  author  points  out  that  the  stylistic  consciousness  of 
the  seventeenth  century  was  already  present  in  St.  Francis  de 
Sales  (in  the  sense  of  the  poignant  phrase  of  Mme.  de  Sevigne: 
"Comment  peut-on  aimer  Dieu  quand  on  n'en  entend  pas  bien 
parler?").  Thus  Vincent,  on  the  basis  of  a  stylistic  comparison 
alone,  bestows  on  St.  Francis  de  Sales  the  honor  of  having  per- 
fected the  classic  numerus  before  Guez  de  Balzac.  Joseph 
COPPIN  — 146 —  Etude  sur  la  grammaire  et  le  vocabulaire  de 
Montaigne  d'apres  les  variantes  des  'Essais'  (Lille:  Facultes 
catholiques,  1925),  discovers  by  comparison  the  aim  of  Mon- 
taigne's style,  "Pexpressivite  des  mots  choisis."  Louis  RIVAILLE 
— 147 —  Corneille  correcteur  de  ses  premieres  oeuvres  (1632- 
1644),  These  complementaire,  Paris,  1936,  concentrates  in  a 
rather  colorless  fashion  on  the  young  dramatist  Corneille's  aware- 
ness of  the  necessity  for  improvement  along  the  lines  of  punctua- 
tion, orthography  and  style. 


26  Stylistic  Comparison  of  Texts  148-157 

R.  GLOTZ  — 148 —  Les  variantes  des  Contemplations,  Diss. 
Caen,  1924,  conversely  has  attained  aesthetic-psychological  re- 
sults from  the  comparison  of  V.  Hugo's  variants,  which  he  has 
supplemented  in  a  complementary  thesis  — 149 —  Essai  sur  la 
psychologie  des  Contemplations  (Paris:  Presses  universitaires, 
1924).  Glotz  infers  from  the  relation  between  the  final  form 
and  the  first  and  second,  on  the  basis  of  cancelations  and  correc- 
tions, certain  principles  about  the  process  of  creation  in  V.  Hugo : 
"La  plupart  des  variantes  .  .  .  marquent  une  reaction  de  Tintelli- 
gence  sur  la  sensibilite"  (p.  7).  This  intelligence  is  reflected 
by  the  antithetical  and  symmetrical  sense  of  order  stronger  than 
Hugo's  lyrical  nebulosity.  It  may  be  that  Glotz  is  going  a  little 
too  far  in  formulating  such  far-reaching  conclusions  about  the 
poet's  evolution  as  to  designate  emphatically  the  year  1856  to  be 
the  turning  point  from  Romanticism  to  Realism. 

Using  the  variants  of  V.  Hugo  also,  Artur  FRANZ  — 150 — 
Aus  Victor  Hugos  Werkstatt  (GBRP,  supplements  no.  5  and  no. 
9, 1934)  and  —151—  "Ibo,"  ANS,  CLXII  (1929) ,  211-228,  makes 
an  attempt  to  clarify  the  genesis  of  the  "poetic-idiomatic  for- 
mulism" which  is  typical  of  this  French  poet.  Franz  has  given 
other  instances  of  the  same  type  of  investigation,  e.g.  —152 — 
"Der  Werdegang  eines  Gedichtes  von  V.  Hugo,"  GRM,  XIII 
(1925),  471-486,  namely  "A  propos  d'Horace"  from  Contempla- 
tions I,  no.  13.  He  was  preceded  by  Hanns  HEISS  — 153 —  "Die 
Varianten  von  V.  Hugos  'Odes  et  ballades',"  ZFS,  XL  (1912), 
1-48,  and  followed  by  Ferdinand  FLUTRE  —154—  "Eclaircis- 
sements  sur  les  'Feuilles  d'automne',"  RHLF,  XXXIV  (1927). 
Leon  PIERRE-QUINT  — 155 —  Comment  travaillait  Proust 
(Paris:  Cahiers  libres,  1928),  limits  himself  to  comparing  some 
passages  of  the  great  novelist's  work  as  they  appeared  for  the 
first  time  (in  NRF)  with  the  definitive  version  that  Proust  gave 
them  in  book  form.  He  also  adds  some  introductory  observations 
with  the  suggestion  that  if  the  reader  himself  collaborates  when 
examining  this  study,  the  variants  will  undoubtedly  help  him 
"remonter  a  la  source  mysterieuse  du  genie"  (p.  15).  A  similar 
approach  to  Marcel  Proust  can  be  found  in  D.  ADELSON 
— 156 —  "Proust's  Earlier  and  Later  Styles:  A  Textual  Com- 
parison," RR,  XXIV  (1943),  127-38. 

This  type  of  study  can  be  done  with  intricate  refinement.  A. 
FEUGfiRE  — 157 —  "Le  gout  de  Ronsard  d'apres  les  variantes  des 
Amours  de  1552,"  MH,  148-160,  shows  the  wavering  of  Ronsard's 


158-166  Different  Drafts  27 

taste  as  to  clarity,  elegance,  simplicity,  harmony,  etc.  through- 
out eight  consecutive  editions.  The  result  of  Pierre  JOURDA 
— 158 —  "Les  corrections  de  'La  Chartreuse  de  Panne',"  RHLF, 
XLII  (1935),  77-89,  comes  from  almost  mathematical  tabula- 
tions : 

Si  Ton  voit,  ici  et  la,  l'ecrivain  brillanter  son  style,  semer  des  ad- 
jectifs,  ajouter  quelques  touches  pittoresques,  on  constate  surtout 
qu'il  a  cherche  une  clarte,  une  precision  toujours  plus  grandes. 

Later  variants  do  not  necessarily  constitute  a  development 
toward  better  art,  as  is  assumed  by  G.  GUIS  AN  — 159 —  "L'evolu- 
tion  de  Tart.de  La  Fontaine  d'apres  les  variantes  de  1' Adonis," 
RHLF,  XLII  (1935),  161-181;  321-343.  A  particular  piquancy 
is  inherent  in  the  style  corrections  of  a  style  theoretician,  as 
shown  by  H.  GUYOT  — 160 —  "Buffon :  Les  variantes  du  discours 
sur  le  style,"  RHLF,  XXX  (1926),  225-233.  J.  RATERMANIS 
— 161 —  Contribution  a  I 'etude  du  style  de  Flaubert  and  — 162 — 
Encore  sur  le  style  de  Flaubert  (Latvijas  Universitates  Raksti, 
Riga)  III,  6  (1936),  53  pp.  and  V,  4  (1939),  100  pp.,  studies  in 
no  less  than  fifteen  different  drafts  the  description  of  the  sunrise 
behind  Carthage  and  the  battle  of  Macar,  both  in  Salammbo. 
The  descriptions  of  nature,  as  well  as  of  the  armies,  the  elephants, 
and  the  chieftains,  offer  the  same  precise  conclusions  as  to  Flau- 
bert's growing  perfection  in  picturesqueness,  rhythm,  and  melo- 
diousness all  combined,  but  seem  slightly  detrimental  to  the 
original  clarity.  A  study  of  variants  from  different  viewpoints 
precedes  the  edition  of  the  first  cast  of  V.  Hugo's  novel  Les 
Miserables:  Gustave  SIMON  — 163 —  Les  miseres.  Premiere 
version  des  Miserables  (Paris:  Baudiniere,  1927).  D.  L.  DE- 
MOREST  — 164 —  "Les  suppressions  dans  le  texte  de  Mme. 
Bovary,"  MH,  373-386,  is  a  marvelous  inventory  of  original  vir- 
tuoso passages  of  description  sacrificed  to  a  more  mature  taste. 
A.  PANTKE  —165—  "G.  Flauberts  Tentation  de  Saint  An- 
toine.'  Ein  Vergleich  der  drei  Fassungen,"  LRAy  AM.  2,  vol.  5 
(1936),  points  out  that  the  improvements  change  the  mystery 
play  into  a  psychological  study,  the  isolated  visions  into  a  graded 
entity,  the  impressions  of  the  eye  into  considerations  of  the  mind, 
and  the  comments  in  the  original  drafts  of  the  author  into  an 
objective  presentation  of  the  Saint's  experience.  Margaret 
GILMAN  —166—  "L'Albatros  again,"  RRf  XLI  (1950),  96-107, 
concerned  with  the  problem  of  the  chronology  of  Les  Fleurs  du 


28  Stylistic  Comparison  of  Texts  167-173 

mal,  compares  L'Albatros  with  he  Cygne  to  the  effect  of  showing 
the  essential  development  of  Baudelaire  in  the  replacement  of 
the  didactic  comparison  by  the  poetic  fusion  of  imagery. 

In  spite  of  its  misleading  title,  Hasye  COOPERMAN  —167— 
The  Aesthetics  of  Stephane  Mallarme  (New  York :  Coffern  Press, 
1933),  discusses  variants  as  the  changes  which  result  "from  the 
effort  of  the  intellect  to  filter  off  all  that  was  emotional  and  super- 
fluous" (p.  257),  such  as  ecoeurant  becoming  ahuri;  mendiants 
damnes  becoming  mendieurs  perdus,  etc.  E.  CARCASSONNE 
— 168 —  "Sur  les  corrections  de  Lamartine  a  propos  de  'Jehova'," 
RCC,  XXXVIII  (Dec-Mars  1936-37),  109-122,  shows  "toute 
une  alternance  .  .  .  de  recherches  inf  ructueuses  et  de  trouvailles 
inattendues."  There  again  is  the  implication  that  the  latest  draft 
of  a  poem  is  not  bound  to  be  better  or  worse  than  the  earlier 
cast;  it  is  only  different. 

A  fine  study  of  emendations  in  the  Spanish  field  is  Edward  M. 
WILSON  — 169 —  "Sobre  la  Canci6n  a  las  ruinas  de  Italica  de 
Rodrigo  Caro,"  RFE,  XXIII  (1936),  379-396,  where  it  is  demon- 
strated how  in  the  three  subsequent  manuscripts  the  classical 
elements  are  brought  increasingly  to  the  fore.  Miguel  RO- 
MERA-NAVARRO  —170—  "Un  aspecto  del  estilo  en  El  Heroe," 
HR,  XI  (1943),  125-130,  discovers  that  Gracian  subtracts  and 
adds  at  the  same  time  in  his  later  manuscripts,  but  that  by 
doing  so,  he  seems  more  disturbed  with  his  culteranisms  than 
with  his  conceptisms.  This  study  was  continued  on  a  broader 
basis  in  Romera-Navarro's  — 171 —  Estudio  del  autografo  de 
'El  Heroe'  de  Gracian.  Ortografia,  correcciones  y  estilo  (Ma- 
drid: RFE  Anejo  XXXV,  1946).  This  book  represents  pains- 
taking investigations.  Only  3.6  per  cent  of  the  corrections  con- 
cern the  much  discussed  conceptisms.  The  motives  for  the  cor- 
rection are  never  figures  of  speech  as  such,  but  only  the  care  for 
appropriateness,  precision,  clarity,  vigor,  variety,  liveliness,  con- 
cision, equilibrium,  elegance.  Thus  all  types  of  expression,  par- 
ticularly the  Gongoristic  hyperbaton,  were  eligible  for  stylistic 
improvement. 

In  the  Italian  area  there  is  a  very  fine  study  of  variants  con- 
cerning the  Macaronic  Latin :  C.  CORDlE  — 172 —  "Le  quattro 
redazioni  del  'Baldus'  di  Teofilo  Folengo,"  MAST,  LXVIII  (1935- 
36) ,  estratto  1-99.  G.  CONTINI  —173—  Saggio  d'un  commento 
del  Petrarca  volgare  (Firenze,  1943),  hints  at  aesthetic  and 
moral  reasons  for  Petrarch's  corrections.    In  general  Petrarca 


174-180  Sources  29 

goes  from  a  rhetorical  to  a  lyrical  concept,  or  a  compromise  be- 
tween both,  before  he  marks  his  respective,  corrected  passage 
with  Hoc  placet.    An  example: 

1.  Ma  che  fanno  i  colori  dinanzi  al  cieco 

2.  Ma  non  pur  mo'  cominci  ad  esser  cieco 

3.  Ma  canto  al  sordo  e  color  mostro  al  cieco 

4.  Ma  canto  al  sordo  e  faccio  lume  al  cieco. 

Mario  FUBINI  —174—  "II  Petrarca  artefice"  in  his  Studi  sulla 
letteratura  del  Rinascimento  (Firenze:  Sansoni,  1947),  1-12, 
shows  by  the  comparison  of  two  drafts  of  a  Petrarchan  sonnet 
(Nel  tempo  lasso  de  la  notte,  quando  and  Tutto  V  dl  piango;  e 
poi  la  notte  quando)  how,  out  of  two  Dante  reminiscences,  can 
grow  an  entirely  original  poem  which  nobody  would  suspect  to 
be  "literature"  and  not  life.  Again  Mario  FUBINI  —175—  "Le 
quattro  redazioni  dei  'Ricordi'  del  Guicciardini,"  lb.,  138-207, 
proves  against  Eduard  Fueter,  who  considered  Guicciardini's 
prose  not  at  all  artistic,  that  the  art  element  is  highly  developed 
from  the  first  to  the  last  redaction,  not  as  a  rhetorical  pattern, 
but  as  a  more  and  more  careful  forming  of  bold  thoughts. 

B.    Sources 

The  stylistic  investigation  of  poetical  sources  has  undergone  a 
deep  transformation.  While  studies  of  the  older  type  proceeded 
in  this  field  without  any  aesthetic  inspiration,  and  made  a  plagi- 
arist out  of  every  later  poet,  the  modern  method  of  investigation 
makes  use  of  the  minute  examination  of  sources  only  in  order  to 
evaluate  the  originality  of  a  later  poet  despite  his  sources  and  to 
affirm  the  continuous  enrichment  of  the  stylistic  treasures  of 
speech.  The  virtuoso  language  of  a  rhetorical  and  lyrical  author 
like  Chateaubriand  proved  to  be  a  fertile  subject  for  source 
studies  by  Blaise  BRIOD  — 176 —  Uhomerisme  de  Chateau- 
briand (Paris:  Champion,  1928),  C.  R.  HART  —177—  Chateau- 
briand  and  Homer,  JHS,  XI  (1928),  L.  H.  NAYLOR  —178— 
Chateaubriand  and  Vergil,  JHS,  XVIII  (1930),  and  CHANDLER 
B.  BEALL  —179—  Chateaubriand  et  Le  Tasse,  JHS,  XXIV 
(1934). 

Miodrag  IBROVAC  —180—  Jose  Maria  de  Heredia.  Les 
sources  des  Trophees  (Paris:  Presses  franchises,  1923),  dedi- 
cated to  each  poem  a  study  on  its  probable  sources,  in  view  of  the 
literary  patrimony  present  in  the  poet's  consciousness.    The  art 


30  Stylistic  Comparison  of  Texts  181-187 

of  Maupassant,  which  never  found  a  direct  analyzer,  has  been 
elucidated  in  the  comparative  way  by  Crystal  Ray  ROSS 
— 181 —  Le  conteur  americain  0.  Henry  et  Vart  de  Maupassant, 
Diss.  Strasbourg,  1925.  Ross  is  convinced  that  O.  Henry  learned 
from  Maupassant  a  whole  series  of  narrative  devices :  the  start- 
ing from  an  incident,  the  ironic  tinge,  and  the  surprise  of  the 
unpredictable  end,  called  in  America  "the  0.  Henry  twist."  He 
can  make  this  evident  by  a  sequence  of  parallel  examples  from 
short  stories  which  appear  in  French  and  English,  in  the  one 
and  the  other  narrator,  like  silk  and  cotton  editions  of  the  same 
shape  and  proportion.  In  view  of  the  different  forms  of  literary 
portraits  and  the  questions  of  priority  and  imitation  in  seven- 
teenth century  France,  J.  VIANEY  — 182 —  "Moliere,  modele 
de  la  Bruyere  dans  Tart  du  portrait,"  in  Melanges  Louis  Arnould 
(Paris,  1934),  84-94,  ascertains  Moliere's  "scene  des  portraits" 
in  Le  Misanthrope  as  the  main  source  for  La  Bruyere's  Carac- 
teres,  although  La  Bruyere  declares  himself  indebted  only  to 
Theophrastus. 

It  would  be  a  methodologically  sound  basis  not  to  consider 
as  style  studies  any  vague  source  suggestions.  The  source  must 
show  unique  striking  features  as  a  formal  principle  which  pro- 
duces statable,  formal  variations  in  its  imitation.  Norman  L. 
TORREY  —183—  "Rousseau's  Use  of  the  Sunrise  Theme,"  RR, 
XXXII  (1941),  339-345,  has  attempted  to  explain  descriptive 
details  of  this  topic  by  showing  that  Rousseau  did  not  stylize 
directly  observed  nature,  but  that  he  used  literary  patterns, 
namely  his  predecessors,  Diderot  and  Albrecht  von  Haller,  Thus, 
sometimes  it  is  the  manner  of  treatment  of  the  same  subject 
which  makes  us  understand  the  stylistic  influence  of  one  author 
on  another.  Different  scholars  have  been  interested  in  Ariosto's 
influence  on  the  French  poet  Philippe  Desportes;  they  are: 
Jacques  LAVAUD  — 184 — -  Les  imitations  de  VArioste  par 
Philippe  Desportes  (Paris:  Droz,  1936),  A.  CIORANESCU 
— 185 —  Les  imitations  de  VArioste  de  Philippe  Desportes  (Paris : 
Droz,  1936) ,  and  Alice  CAMERON  —186—  "Desportes  and  Ari- 
osto,  Additional  Sources  in  the  Orlando  and  the  Liriche,"  MLN, 
L  (1936),  174  ff.  Whereas  Lavaud  sees  in  Desportes*  abridg- 
ments and  simplifications  les  caracteristiques  de  V esprit  classique 
(p.  XX),  A.  Cameron  finds  fault  with  Desportes'  over-clarifica- 
tion (p.  176).  CIORANESCU  has  extended  his  edition  subse- 
quently to  — 187 —  VArioste  en  France,  vol.  I  (Paris:  Presses 


188-195  Sources  31 

Modernes,  1938) ,  in  which  he  found  that  the  misunderstood  beau 
of  Ariosto  was  turned  into  a  sentimental  joli  in  France.  A  great 
deal  of  stylistic  material  can  be  found  in  a  similar  work  by 
Chandler  B.  BE  ALL  — 188 —  Le  Tasse  en  France  (Oregon 
Univ.  Press,  1942). 

The  profound  investigation  of  the  stylistic  relation  of  an 
author  to  his  principal  sources  can  offer  most  tangible  results 
which  are  far  from  being  hasty  realizations.  This  has  been 
clearly  shown  by  N.  CACUDI  — 189 —  La  Fontaine,  imitateur  de 
Boccace,  Diss.  Besangon  (Bari,  1923),  where  by  means  of  com- 
parison of  twenty-one  Contes  by  La  Fontaine  with  twenty-one 
Novelle  by  Boccaccio,  perspectives  are  attained  on  the  individual 
style  as  well  as  on  that  of  race,  epoch  and  country.  Source  and 
imitation  must  not  belong  to  different  literatures  however.  The 
elucidation  of  a  stylistic  relation  between  two  works  of  the  same 
literature,  for  instance,  may  be  pathetic  style  versus  psychological 
style,  as  can  be  seen  from  Alix  COHN  — 190 —  "Rotrous  'Les 
Sosies'  und  Molieres  'Amphitryon/  Eine  stilgeschichtliche 
Untersuchung."  VKR,  I  (1928),  283-315.  If  many  sources  are 
involved,  the  stylistic  interest  generally  is  superseded  by  the 
merely  factual  interest,  as  is  the  case  with  Jean  SEZNEC 
— 191 — ■  Les  Sources  de  I'episode  des  dieux  dans  La  Tentation  de 
Saint  Antoine  (Paris:  Vrin,  1940).  Charles  DeMYAN 
— 192 —  "Un  exemple  de  l'adaptation  originale  de  Stendhal  dans 
'Les  Cenci'."  IL,  II  (1950),  85-89,  checks  on  Stendhal's  artistic 
use  of  the  Chroniques  Italiennes.  He  does  a  similar  study  with 
— 193 —  "L'adaptation  originale  de  Stendhal  dans  'L'Abbesse  de 
Castro',"  Divan  (Juillet  1950)   (see  also  no.  1508). 

The  investigation  of  the  sources  may  also  include  more  subtle 
suggestions  going  beyond  the  philological  comparison  of  texts. 
Helmut  HATZFELD  —194—  "Don  Quijote  und  Madame  Bo- 
vary,"  IPh,  III  (1927),  54-70;  116-131,  has  made  clear  that  the 
French  author  imitated  the  Spaniard  in  his  fusion  of  the  char- 
acters with  the  cultural  background,  the  combination  of  empathy 
and  criticism,  the  symphonic  presentation,  the  creation  of  an 
atmosphere  by  exterior  details,  and  the  raising  of  description  to 
vision  by  an  impressionistic  technique  in  composition  and  style, 
A  similar  study  was  the  concern  of  Albert  PAUPHILET 
— 195 —  "Ronsard  a  la  maniere  du  Roman  de  la  Rose,"  MH,  194- 
199,  where  a  single  theme  (Bel  Accueil)  invited  the  imitator  to 
wonderful,  free  variations. 


32  Stylistic  Comparison  of  Texts  196-200 

It  is  the  rediscovery  of  W.  M.  FROHOCK  —196—  "Camus: 
Image,  Influence  and  Sensibility,"  YFS,  II  (1949),  91-99,  that 
the  unperceived  "stylistic  influences,  not  the  evident  ones,  must 
be  analyzed."  Frohock  proves  that  Camus,  in  cases  of  dramatic 
and  emotional  strain,  recurs  to  the  naturistic  imagery  of  Jean 
Giono,  giving  it  however  an  entirely  different  function  and  mean- 
ing. Fernand  DESONAY  — 197 —  Le  Grand  Meaulnes  a"  Alain 
Foumier,  Essai  de  Commentaire  psychologique  et  litteraire 
(Bruxelles:  Edition  des  Artistes,  1941)  had  the  ingenious  idea 
of  tracing  back  the  single  elements  of  the  famous  novel  to  decisive 
passages  in  Fournier's  correspondence,  which  elucidate  details 
such  as  his  preference  for  sea  and  music  metaphors,  the  language 
of  the  peasants,  the  motifs  of  "la  petite  fille,"  of  "la  jeune  fille 
ideale"  fit  for  a  castle,  and  of  "la  revelation  d'un  monde  nouveau" 
taken  from  the  then  recent  aviation.  Finally  there  is  in  this  cor- 
respondence Fournier's  whole  poetics  on  the  roman-reve,  its 
realism,  its  sensibility  and  their  insertion  into  life,  and  the  stress 
on  atmosphere  inherent  in  the  single  hours  of  the  day. 

Leo  SPITZER  —198—  "La  genese  d'une  poesie  de  Paul  Va- 
lery,"  Re,  II-III  (1944-45),  311-321,  compares  stylistically,  in  a 
superior  approach,  Paul  Valery's  early  poem,  Assise  la  fileuse, 
with  its  sources:  Leonidas*  epigram  from  the  Greek  Anthology, 
Heredia's  La  fileuse,  and  Mallarme's  Sainte — not  forgetting  side- 
line motifs  of  "le  sommeil  aupres  du  rouet"  in  literature  and 
music.  Precise  information  lies  hidden  under  the  vague  title  of 
a  comprehensive  study  of  D.  M.  KRESS  —199—  "The  Weight 
of  French  Parnassian  Influence  in  the  Modernistic  Poetry  of 
Manuel  Gutierre  Najera,"  RLC,  XVII  (1932),  555-571;  not  the 
genuine  pessimism,  but  entire  lines,  expressions,  epithets,  musical 
word  arrangements  as  found  in  Leconte  de  Lisle,  Francois  Cop- 
pee  and  Verlaine  are  imitated  in  Naj  era's  poetry. 

DAmaso  ALONSO  —200—  "Aquella  arpa  de  Becquer,"  CyRt 
XXVII  (1935),  59-104,  points  out  how  originality  is  maintained 
by  Becquer  in  the  imitation  of  motifs  of  Heinrich  Heine  as  well 
as  in  the  imitation  of  texts,  e.g.  one  from  Musset,  A  quoi  revent 
les  jeunes  files,  in  concept  and  development  psychologically  en- 
tirely different  in  spite  of  similar  wording : 


Je  suis  dans  un  salon  comme  line  mandoline 
Oubliee  en  passant  sur  le  bord  d'un  coussin,  etc. 


and: 


201-208  Sources  33 

Del  salon  en  el  angulo  oscuro 
de  su  duefio  tal  vez  olvidada 
silenciosa  y  cubierta  de  polvo 

veiase  el  arpa,  etc. 

As  a  master  of  source  studies,  Damaso  ALONSO  — 201 —  La 
poesia  de  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz  (Madrid:  Consejo,  1942),  has 
worked  out  to  what  extent  the  poems  of  this  Saint,  so  highly 
original,  are  definitely  rooted  in  the  Canticle  of  Canticles,  in 
Spanish  folk  poetry  and  in  Garcilaso  de  la  Vega,  but  less  directly 
than  indirectly  through  the  spiritual  travesty  of  the  eglogvs  by 
Sebastian  de  Cordoba  (see  also  nos.  1455  and  638).  Geoffrey 
BRERETON,  in  a  similar  way,  offered  — 202 —  Quelques  pre- 
cisions sur  les  sources  d'Espronceda  (Paris:  Jouve,  1933). 
MARf A  Rosa  LIDA  —203—  "Para  las  f uentes  de  Quevedo,"  RFH, 
I  (1939),  369-375,  established  a  subtle  difference  between  the 
more  immediate  and  the  more  remote  sources  in  an  author;  for 
instance,  Camoes  is  a  precise  source,  the  so-called  Greek  An- 
thology a  remote  source,  for  Quevedo. 

Carlos  CLAVERf  A  —204 —  "Flaubert  y  La  Regenta,"  in  his 
Cinco  estudios  de  literatura  espanola  moderna  (Salamanca: 
Colegio  trilingue,  1945),  9-28,  underlines  that  Clarin's  common 
interest  with  Flaubert  in  overcoming  the  bourgeois  romanticism 
entirely  removes  from  him  the  brand  of  a  slavelike  imitation  of 
Madame  Bovary,  the  more  so  because  a  transposition  of  the 
milieu  certainly  belongs  to  original  creation.  The  same  holds 
true  for  the  relation  Bovary:  O  Primo  Basilio,  as  was  made  plain 
by  Castelo  Branco  CHAVES  — 205 —  "A  influencia  de  Gustavo 
Flaubert  na  estetica  de  Eca  de  Queiroz,"  RLC,  XVIII  (1938), 
195  ff.  (see  also  no.  1510).  Malcolm  D.  McLEAN  —206— 
"Poems  to  the  Rainbow  by  Campbell  and  Heredia,"  H,  XVIII 
(1950),  260-264,  states  the  metrical  differences  between  source 
and  imitation.  Quatrains  of  iambic  tetrameters  and  trimeters 
alternating  ab  ab,  are  replaced  by  8-line  stanzas,  each  containing 
an  average  of  8  syllables,  with  the  pattern  abbe  decc.  Gerhard 
BUCK  —207—  "Written  in  Imitation  of  the  Manner  of  Cer- 
vantes," GRM,  XXIX  (1941),  53-61,  goes  too  little  into  detail 
to  prove  the  originality  of  Fielding  in  Joseph  Andrews,  despite 
his  conscious  imitation  of  the  Don  Quijote.  The  modest  results 
of  source  studies  were  characterized  by  DAmaso  ALONSO 
— 208 —  "La  caza  de  amor  es  de  altaneria.    Sobre  los  precedentes 


34  Stylistic  Comparison  of  Texts  209-214 

de  una  poesia  de  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz,"  BAE,  XXVI  (1947),  63- 
79: 

Con  toscos  instrumentos  nos  aproximamos  a  una  tierna  misteriosa 
criatura:  ese  bosque  hondisimo,  lobrego,  susurrante,  de  la  creacion 
poetica. 

Damaso  Alonso  — 209 —  "Lope  despojado  por  Marino,"  RFE, 
XXXIII  (1949),  110-143;  165-168;  399-408,  opens  quite  new 
horizons  by  showing  that  marinism  is  based  on  Spanish  and  even 
Lopesque  style  elements. 

The  artistic  relation  between  San  Francesco's  Cantico  del  Sole 
and  its  biblical  sources,  Psalm  148  and  the  Hymn  of  Daniel, 
has  been  carefully  established,  as  to  form  and  movement,  by  J.  T. 
PAOLANTONACCI  —210—  "Sur  le  cantique  de  Saint  Fran- 
cois," El,  IV  (1934),  201-10,  and  297-304.  To  observe  how 
Ariosto  digested  and  used  Virgil  was  the  concern  of  P.  ROCCA 
— 211 —  Riflessi  delle  Georgiche  nel  Furioso  (Bologna:  Zani- 
chelli,  1933).  It  is  interesting  to  know  how  the  lyrical  genius 
of  Camoes,  though  opposed  to  the  rank  and  file  of  the  sixteenth 
century  Petrarchists,  achieved  an  artistic  recast  of  Petrarch's 
motifs ;  for  that  reason  Camillo  GUERRIERI  explained  — 212 — 
La  trasfigurazione  di  motivi  petrarcheschi,  on  pp.  57-84  of  his 
book  La  lirica  del  Camoes  (Genova:  Orfini,  1939).  Amado 
ALONSO  — 213 —  "Estilistica  de  las  fuentes  literarias:  Ruben 
Dario  y  Miguel  Angel,"  N  (Buenos  Aires,  25  de  septiembre  de 
1939)  shows  Ruben  Dario's  "Lo  fatal,"  expression  of  the  modern 
pathological  fear  of  death,  to  be  Michelangelo's  "Caro  m'e  '1 
sonno  e  piu  l'esser  di  sasso,"  expression  of  a  Renaissance-scher- 
zando,  with  a  quite  different  psychology.  Amado  Alonso  comes  to 
the  conclusion  that  a  reasonable  imitation  as  opposed  to  pla- 
giarism leads  the  imitating  poet  to  reveal  his  most  intimate 
originality. 

C.     Stylistically  Related  Topics 

Style  investigation,  like  ordinary  philology,  tries  to  find  out — 
with  artistic  implications — a  relation  between  two  texts,  one  of 
which  does  not  depend  directly  on  the  other,  but  is  related  to  it 
rather  through  a  common  source,  remote  affinity,  or  cultural  en- 
vironment. In  this  sense  Donald  F.  BROWN  — 214 —  'Two 
Naturalistic  Versions  of  Genesis,"  MLN,  LII  (1937) ,  243-248,  has 


215-222  Related  Topics  35 

pointed  out  that  in  two  different  ways  Zola's  Faute  de  Vabbe 
Mouret  and  Pardo  Bazan's  Madre  naturaleza  use  the  same  source 
story  of  Adam,  Eve  and  the  Serpent,  with  a  traceable  depend- 
ence, beyond  this  source,  of  the  Spanish  work  on  the  French, 
with  the  aesthetical  implication  that  Pardo  Bazan  has  outdone 
Zola  none  the  less.  A  particular  type,  two  different  stylistic 
variations  of  the  same  theme  in  poetry  and  prose  is  the  problem 
of  G.  STREIT  — 215 —  Die  Doppelmotive  in  Baudelaires  Fleurs 
du  mat  und  Petits  poemes  en  prose  (Strasbourg:  Heitz,  1929). 
Isidore  SILVER  —216—  "Did  Du  Bellay  know  Pindar?," 
PMLA,  LVI  (1941),  1007-1019,  was  able  to  prove  by  "ocular" 
style  evidence  and  not  only  by  ragionamenti  that  Du  Bellay  did 
know  Pindar  directly,  not  only  through  Ronsard,  and  imitated 
clearly  and  directly  in  his  Ode  du  Prince  de  Melphe  the  Greek 
poet's  fifth  Pythian  Ode.  This  discovery  encouraged  Silver  to 
establish  other  direct  stylistic  sources  for  Du  Bellay,  such  as 
Homer,  Horace,  and  Theocritus,  together  with  theoretical  con- 
siderations in  his  — 217 —  article  "Du  Bellay  and  Hellenic  Poetry. 
A  Cursory  View,"  PMLA,  LX  (1945),  66-80;  356-363;  670-681. 

An  old  suspicion  was  verified  by  Eunice  Joiner  GATES 
—218—  "Gongora  and  Calderon,"  HR,  V  (1937),  241-258,  name- 
ly that  Calderon  is  not  only  a  self-made  literary  Churriguera,  but 
a  pupil  and  obedient  imitator  of  Gongora.  As  far  as  the  preacher 
—219—  "Paravicino,  the  Gongoristic  Poet,"  MLR,  XXXIII 
(1938),  540-546,  is  concerned,  Eunice  Joiner  Gates  again  has 
seen  the  complexity  of  such  problems.  Certainly  it  was  the 
preacher  who  imitated  the  poet  in  word  order,  themes,  phrase- 
ology, images,  and  stock  constructions.  Paravicino,  thus 
equipped,  however,  can  express  his  thanks  to  El  Greco  for  having 
painted  his  picture  in  a  more  elegant  Gongoristic  style  than  Gon- 
gora himself  used  for  his  own  picture  at  a  later  date.  Damaso 
ALONSO  — 220 —  "La  supuesta  imitacion  por  Gongora  de  la  fa- 
bula  de  Acis  y  Galatea,"  RFE,  XIX  (1932),  349-387,  proves  that 
not  the  Spaniard  Carrillo  but  Ovid  himself  was  the  inspiration  of 
Gongora.  Manuel  GarcIa  BLANCO  —221 —  "La  originalidad 
del  Libro  de  Apolonio,"  R1E,  III  (1945),  351-378,  checks  on  the 
sources  cf  this  poem  and  its  other  Romance  versions  to  show 
the  originality  of  its  mester  de  clerecia-ipsittem  and  its  adapta- 
tion to  the  Spanish  sensibility.  A  stylistic-philosophical  study 
of  three  thematic  parallels  and  stylistic  contrasts  is  Leo  SPIT- 
ZER  —222—  "Three  Poems  on  Ecstasy  (John  Donne,  St.  John 


36  Stylistic  Comparison  of  Texts  223-229 

of  the  Cross,  Richard  Wagner),"  in  A  Method  of  Interpreting 
Literature  (Northampton:  Smith  College,  1949),  1-63. 

Source  comparisons  on  a  large  scale  between  dramas  or  novels 
should  be  confined  to  the  limbo  of  the  "Stilforschung."  Works 
of  the  following  type :  Jose  Francisco  GATTI  —223—  "Moratin 
y  Marivaux,"  RFH,  III  (1941),  140-149,  where  L'ecole  des  meres 
is  shown  to  be  the  source  of  El  si  de  las  ninas,  or  Hermann 
WILLERS  — 224 —  Le  diable  boiteux  (Le  Sage) — El  diablo 
cojuelo  (Guevara),  Diss.  Rostock,  1935,  belong  to  this  marginal 
realm.  The  latter  comparative  problem  was  approached,  how- 
ever, in  truly  stylistic  fashion  by  G.  CIROT  — 225 —  "A  propos 
du  Diablo  cojuelo.  Apergus  de  stylistique  comparee,"  BH,  XLVI 
(1944),  240-51.  Cirot  tries  to  "locate"  Guevara's  descriptions 
by  parallelizing  them  with  similar  ones  from  Cervantes,  Quevedo, 
Gracian,  Lilian  and  Zavaleta. 

The  metamorphosis  of  literary  topics  or  motifs  (see  also 
chapter  VIII)  from  Greco-Roman  antiquity  in  Hispanic  lyric 
poetry  is  a  specialty  of  MarIa  Rosa  LIDA  — 226 —  "El  ruiseiior 
de  las  Georgicas  y  su  influencia  en  la  lirica  espariola  de  la  edad 
de  oro,"  VKR,  XI  (1938),  290-305,  and  —227—  "Transmisi6n 
y  recreacion  de  temas  grecolatinos  en  la  poesia  lirica  espanola," 
RFH,  I  (1939),  20-63.  But  she  is  an  even  "purer"  style-investiga- 
tor when  she  works  on  forms  independent  of  thematic  implica- 
tions. Thus  she  found  out  that  the  famous  clause  at  the  begin- 
ning of  Don  Quijote  — 228 —  "De  cuyo  nombre  no  quiero  acor- 
darme,"  RFH,  I  (1939),  167-171,  has  nothing  to  do  with  un- 
pleasant prison  reminiscences  of  Cervantes,  but  is  an  old  formula 
handed  down  from  Herodotus  through  the  centuries  and  is  des- 
tined, it  should  be  added,  to  give  a  certain  rhythm  to  the  sentence. 

D.     Psychological  Similarities  and  Contrasts 
Reflected  in  Style 

The  "source"  is  often  negligible  or  non-existent  if  psychologi- 
cal affinities  are  at  issue.  Racine's  artistic  indebtedness  to 
Euripides,  Seneca,  Ovid  and  others,  in  spite  of  his  own  originality 
due  to  a  quite  different  psychology,  has  been  clarified  in 
many  details  by  C.  MtlLLER  — 229 —  Die  'Phadra'  Racines,  Quel- 
lenstudien  und  Auseinandersetzung  mit  der  bisherigen  Kritik, 
Diss.  Leipzig,  1936.  The  Tristan-theme  as  nationally  treated 
in  structure  and  style  by  an  Old  French  and  a  Middle  High  Ger- 


230-241  Psychological  Similarities  37 

man  poet  has  been  elucidated  by  A.  DIJKSTERHUIS  —230— 
Thomas  und  Gottfried.  Ihre  konstruktiven  Sprachformen  (Mun- 
chen:  Hueber,  1935),  and  again  by  Magda  HEIMERLE  —231— 
Gottfried  und  Thomas  (Frankfurt:  FQF,  XXXI,  1942).  The 
same  was  done  for  the  Old  French  and  German  Yvain  by  Herbert 
DRUBE  — 232 —  Hartmann  und  Chretien  (Miinster:  Aschen- 
dorff,  1931),  and  in  a  superior  way,  though  overstressing  the 
national  style  differences,  by  Kurt  Herbert  HALBACH  — 233 — 
Franzosentum  und  Deutschtum  in  hbfischer  Dichtung  der  Stau- 
ferzeit.  Hartmann  und  Crestien.  Iwein-Ivain  (Berlin:  Junker, 
1939).  For  more  stylistic  material  concerning  Franco-German 
literary  relations  during  the  Middle  Ages,  one  should  consult 
Wilhelm  KELLERMANN  —234—  "Altdeutsche  und  altfranzo- 
sische  Literatur,"  GRM,  XXVI  (1938),  293-317. 

The  different  treatment  of  solitude  by  two  great  poets  was 
analyzed  in  Ulrich  LEO  — 235 —  "Zwei  Einsamkeiten.  Leo- 
pardls  'L'infinito'  und  Lamartines  'L'Isolement',"  AR,  XVI 
(1932),  521-539.  The  theme  of  the  lover's  abandonment  as 
treated  in  the  three  famous  French  romantic  poems  by  Lamar- 
tine,  V.  Hugo,  and  Alfred  de  Musset  became  the  subject  of  an 
essay  of  John  SHIELDS  —236—  "Three  Elegies/'  SP,  XL 
(1943),  576-582.  A  less  inspiring,  rather  clumsy  and  annoying 
comparative  study  of  themes,  strophes,  verses  and  expression 
types  in  two  late  medieval  contemporaries  is  J.  C.  SCHILPE- 
ROORT  — 237 —  Guillaume  de  Machaut  et  Christine  de  Pisan, 
Diss.  Leyden,  1936.  On  the  style  differences  between  Racine 
and  Goethe  we  have  two  studies :  one  by  Leo  SPITZER  — 238 — 
"Racine  et  Goethe,"  RHPH,  I  (1933),  58-75,  and  one  by  E. 
MERIAN-GENAST  —239—  "Racine  und  Goethe,"  ASNS, 
CLXVIII  (1935),  197-224;.  Both  authors  establish  fundamen- 
tal— but  alas!  vague — differences  between  French  and  German 
Classicism.  Spitzer  sees  in  Racine's  style  the  expression  of 
passion,  in  Goethe's  that  of  moderation ;  Merian-Genast  finds  in 
Racine  a  style  of  sociability,  in  Goethe  a  style  of  personality. 
Adolf  von  GROLMANN  — 240 —  Deutscher  und  franzosischer 
'art  poetique'  (Baden-Baden:  Knaeps,  1948),  compared  in  banal 
fashion  the  individual  romantic  procedure  of  the  German  writers 
in  general  with  the  social-classical  patterns  of  the  French.  Wil- 
liam H.  McCLAIN  —241—  "Kleist  and  Moliere  as  Comic  Writ- 
ers," GR,  XXIV  (1949),  21-33,  opposes  Moliere  as  the  "greater 
master  of  his  art  by  keeping  within  the  bounds  of  the  comic"  to 


38  Stylistic  Comparison  of  Texts  242-247 

the  "inherently  tragic"  Kleist.  A.  ERNOUT  —242—  "Amphi- 
tryon dans  Plaute  et  dans  Moliere,"  Neo,  XXXIII  (1949),  113- 
120,  opposes  the  French  jeux  d'esprit  to  the  Latin's  simplicite 
rude. 

Jose  Manuel  BLECUA  — 243 —  "Algunos  aspectos  del  Laber- 
into,"  Ca,  I  (1940-41),  115-131,  compares  this  work  of  Juan  de 
Mena  with  works  of  other  contemporaries  and  with  Gongora's 
Soledades  to  bring  out  the  unique  content-form  relations  and 
the  definite  pre-baroque  character  of  the  Laberinto.  The  stylistic 
differences  between  the  treatment  of  the  same  subject  matter  by 
a  Spanish  and  a  French  Mystic  (Santa  Teresa  and  Marie  de 
l'lncarnation)  have  been  explained  by  psychological,  educational, 
national,  epochal  and  idiomatic  differences,  in  Helmut  HATZ- 
FELD  — 244 —  "Klassische  Frauenmystik  in  Spanien  und 
Frankreich,"  SF,  1.  Reihe,  7.  Band  (1938),  233-257.  Zdislas 
MILNER  —245—  "Gongora  et  Mallarme,"  EN,  I  (1920),  285- 
296,  finds  a  non-historic  affinity  between  the  two  authors.  He  un- 
derscores in  this  first  essay  only  their  common  stylistic  features, 
their  preference  for  the  concrete  in  figures  of  speech,  vocabulary 
and  paraphrases,  with  the  syntactical  consequence  that  the  verb 
is  replaced  by  the  adjective,  and  that  the  decisive  word  is  iso- 
lated by  means  of  inversions.  The  domination  of  the  substantive 
is  here  further  enhanced  by  means  of  hyperbole  and  the  use  of 
the  epithet.  Description  is  superseded  by  the  condensed  image, 
and  the  narrative  element  is  eliminated  by  a  series  of  metamor- 
phoses. The  sentence  is  an  arabesque  with  well  calculated  si- 
lences and  sensations.  In  a  second  attempt,  Zdislas  MILNER 
— 246 —  "Gongora  y  Mallarme.  El  conocimiento  de  lo  absoluto 
por  medio  de  las  palabras,"  FHC,  III  (1949),  37-50,  repeats  his 
statements  of  1920  with  more  pretentious  formulas: 

Este  continuo  esfuerzo  tendiente  a  despejar  de  toda  cosa  la  realidad 
material  instable,  y  esta  larga  frase  en  arabesco  es  lo  que  con- 
stituye  el  fondo  comun  de  Gongora  y  Mallarme  (p.  50). 

Gabriel  PRADAL-RODRi'GUEZ  —247—  "La  tecnica  poetica  y 
el  caso  Gongora-Mallarme,"  CL,  II  (1950),  269-280,  thinks  that 
Gongora  has  discovered  the  aesthetic  pattern  for  pure  poetry — 
which  was  simply  rediscovered  by  Mallarme.  "No  parece  existir 
un  camino  poetico  que  pueda  prescindir  del  legado  de  Gongora." 
This  must  be  taken  with  a  grain  of  salt. 

A  defense  of  the  independence  of  the  contemporary  Venezue- 


248-252  Reconstruction  of  Lost  Texts  39 

Ian  writer,  Romulo  Gallego,  against  the  reproach  of  his  having 
imitated  the  Columbian  writer,  Jose  Eustacio  Rivera,  was 
splendidly  made  with  the  comparative  stylistic  method  by  Ulrich 
LEO  — 248 —  "Dona  Barbara  y  La  Voragine,"  U  (7  de  Julio  de 
1943).  Rafael  LAPESA  —249—  "La  Jerusalen  del  Tasso  y  la 
de  Lope  de  Vega,"  BAEy  XXV  (1946),  111-136,  sees  in  Tasso  the 
last  example  of  refined  Aristotelian  poetics,  equilibrium  and 
"gravita  riposata,"  whereas  he  considers  Lope  the  destroyer  of 
this  equilibrium  by  "el  gesto  espectacular,"  "bravatas,"  "rodo- 
montadas,"  "ejemplaridades  hiperbolicas"  and  "descompostura." 
In  other  words,  Tasso  handles  his  epic  as  an  epic  poet ;  Lope,  in 
every  respect,  as  the  popular  dramatist  that  he  is  and  remains. 
Kate  BRDDT  — 250 —  "Confronto  do  ponto  de  vista  da  'ideia'  e 
do  'estilo'  entre  o  conto  'Mae'  de  'Os  meus  Amores'  (Trindade 
Coelho)  e  o  conto  'Mater  Dolorosa'  de  'A  cidade  do  vicio'  (Fialho 
de  Almeida),"  B,  X  (1934),  512-525,  from  an  aesthetic-psycho- 
logical angle,  distinguishes  in  the  style  of  Coelho  the  simple 
expression  of  a  feminine  sensibility;  in  the  style  of  Fialho  de 
Almeida,  a  pomposity  which  is  striking  for  a  naturalist. 

E.    Reconstruction  of  Lost  Texts  by  Stylistic  Criteria 

The  method  of  reconstruction  of  lost  medieval  texts,  so  im- 
pressively wielded  by  Ramon  Menendez  Pidal,  becomes  style  in- 
vestigation as  soon  as  the  philologist  does  not  reconstruct  words 
and  lines,  but  characters  and  actions  of  a  fragment.  Structure 
and  details  of  extant  works  of  the  same  poet  are  supposed  to 
reveal  his  categorical  and  ne  varietur  disposition  of  any  artistic 
material.  This  is  the  way  in  which  the  archeologist  provides 
mutilated  statues  with  arms  and  legs.  Admitting  these  premises 
as  correct,  we  may  call  excellent  a  study  concerned  with  the 
stylistic  reconstruction  of  Chretien  de  Troyes'  fragment  Perceval 
from  the  style  scheme  of  the  other  preserved  works:  WlLHELM 
KELLERMANN  —251—  "Aufbaustil  und  Weltbild  Chretien  de 
Troves'  im  Perceval-Roman,"  ZRP,  Beiheft  88  (Halle,  1936) .  He 
was  followed  in  the  Hispanic  medieval  field  by  Isabel,  Freiin 
von  DYHERRN  — 252 —  Stilkritische  Untersuchung  und  Ver- 
such  einer  Rekonstruktion  des  Poema  de  Ferndn  Gonzalez,  Diss. 
Berlin  (Leipzig:  Frommhold,  1937).  She  vindicates  the  two 
clear-cut  stylistic  methods,  of  the  Poema  and  of  the  Chronicle,  as 
sufficient  to  reconstruct  the  lost  original  epic.     The  boldest  at- 


40  Stylistic  Comparison  of  Texts  253-257 

tempt  in  stylistic  reconstruction  is  A.  WITTE  — 253 —  "Der 
Aufbau  der  altesten  Tristandichtungen,"  ZDA,  LXX  (1933), 
161-195.  Witte  tries  to  decide  that  Tristan  versions  to  be  good 
ones  must  coincide  with  the  diptych  structure  of  the  original 
form  of  the  legend.  This  vindication  of  structure  excludes  a 
ternary  principle.  The  diptych  actually  seems  best  preserved  in 
the  fragments  of  Thomas  of  Bretagne.  The  jongleur  interpola- 
tions of  Beroul  and  Eilhard  have  obscured  the  situation,  and  the 
scholars'  search  for  a  tripartite  scheme  in  Gottfried  has  been 
entirely  meaningless. 

F.     Adaptations  and  Translations 

A  final  task  of  comparative  style-philology  is  the  checking  on 
adaptations  and  translations  from  an  aesthetical  viewpoint,  but 
with  a  more  profound  delving  into  the  categorical  differences 
between  the  original  and  its  rendition  into  another  language. 
Maria  LtJCKER  — 254 —  Die  franzosischen  Psalmeniibersetz- 
ungen  des  18.  Jahrhunderts  als  Ausdruck  der  Zeit,  Diss.  Bonn, 
1933,  has  shown  that  the  individual  differences  of  the  transla- 
tors of  the  psalter  during  the  enlightenment  period  are  negligible 
if  compared  with  the  rationalistic  wording  which  prevails  every- 
where in  contradistinction  to  the  text  of  the  Vulgate.  Students 
of  Professor  Raymond  Lebegue  (Sorbonne)  prepare  such  psalter 
studies  for  earlier  centuries.  Gianna  TOSI  — 255 —  La  lingua 
dei  Fioretti  di  San  Francesco,  Diss.,  Universita  di  Milano,  1938, 
compared  the  Fioretti  with  the  Latin  original  Actus  Sancti  Fran- 
cisci.  She  has  found  how  the  genius  of  the  Italian  vernacular 
comes  to  its  birthright,  when  absolutus  a  culpa  appears  as  e  as- 
soluto  che  fu  dalla  colpa ;  magnolia  as  grandi  cose ;  ostenditur  as 
si  die  a  intendere.  That  means,  as  the  author  points  out,  that 
the  abstract  becomes  concrete,  a  meditation  becomes  a  scene,  a 
thought  a  talk,  a  feeling  a  sight,  an  implication  a  slight  hint,  be- 
cause complicated  Latin  clauses  reappear  as  gerunds,  pale  terms 
as  savory  expressions,  passivity  as  a  visualized  action. 

Translations  of  idiomatic  poetry  into  another  idiom  by  a 
congenial  poetic  mind  can  offer  materials  for  worth-while  stylis- 
tic studies.  Such  were  undertaken  by  Duschan  DERNDARSKY 
_256—  "Louise  Labe  und  Rilke,"  RF,  LX  (1947),  123-189,  and 
by  Kenneth  N.  DOUGLAS  —257—  "Translations  English, 
Spanish,  Italian,  German  of  P.  Valery's  'Le  cimetiere  marin',,r 


258-261  Adaptations  and  Translations  41 

MLQ,  VII  (1947),  401-7.  As  far  as  prose  is  concerned  there  is 
a  similar  study  by  Joachim  ABRAHAMS  — 258 —  "Diderot, 
Franzosisch  und  Deutsch,"  RF,  LII  (1937),  27-70,  and  305-388, 
with  profound  introductory  remarks  on  the  stylistic  problem  of 
translations. 

Certain  rhythmical  and  musical  problems  in  E.  DUMeRIL 
— 259 —  Le  Lied  allemand  et  ses  traductions  poetiques  en  France 
(Paris:  Champion,  1934)  reveal  that  there  are  very  few  lieder 
which  are  genuinely  translated  or  adapted.  For  the  greatest 
part  the  translations  offer  only  "une  musique  verbale  denuee  de 
sens"  (p.  370).  An  inquiry  of  importance,  involving  the  trans- 
lator's technique  as  opposed  to  his  original  creations,  is  offered 
by  Karl  REGIUS  — 260 —  Der  Stil  Marots  als  Vbersetzer,  Diss. 
Fribourg,  1949.  Joseph  COPPIN  — 261 —  Montaigne,  traduc- 
teur  de  Raymond  Sebond  (Facultes  Catholiques  de  Lille,  1925), 
particularly  in  ch.  XII :  "La  langue  de  la  traduction  comparee  a 
la  langue  des  Essais,"  201-266,  reveals  Montaigne's  outstanding 
development  in  creating  abstract  substantivations  (le  n'estre 
pas=le  non-estre  p.  202)  and  synonyms  (208  ff.)  conditioned  by 
necessity  of  the  translation. 


CHAPTER  IV 

The  Language  of  Individual  Authors 

Introduction 

The  style  studies  par  excellence  are  the  investigations  into  the 
literary  language  of  an  author.  This  does  not  mean  an  inquiry 
into  his  vocabulary  and  syntax  as  such,  but  their  artistic  use  as 
psychological  expressions  and  structural  elements  in  an  arte- 
fact. With  this  limitation  we  have  to  exclude  from  our  review 
many  excellent  studies  on  the  language  of  a  single  author.  Since 
they  use  the  author's  neologisms,  metaphors  and  original  con- 
structions as  contributions  to  language  (la  langue),  not  as 
creations  of  an  individual  speech  (parole)  in  the  sense  of  De 
Saussure,  they  have  only  linguistic  and  grammatical  interest. 
Such  studies  are  found  particularly  in  the  French  periodical,  he 
Francais  Moderne,  where  they  are  done  by  scholars  like  Guerlin 
de  Guer,  Le  Bidois,  Gougenheim,  et  al.  The  older,  non-aesthetic 
type  of  such  studies,  more  lexicographical  and  syntactical  than 
stylistic,  may  be  represented  by  a  work  like  Alfred  HUMPERS 
— 262 —  Etude  sur  la  langue  de  Jean  Lemaire  de  Beiges,  Diss. 
Liege,  1921.  Ch.  GUERLIN  DE  GUER  —263—  "La  langue 
des  ecrivains,"  in  Ou  en  sont  les  etudes  de  francais,  Manuel 
general  de  linguistique  frangaise  moderne,  publie  sous  la  direc- 
tion de  Albert  Dauzat  (Paris,  1935),  227-337,  and  Charles 
BRUNEAU  in  the  — 264 —  appendix  of  the  new  edition  of  this 
work  (1950),  have  given  a  list  of  all  the  authors  whose  language 
has  been  a  subject  of  research.  We  exclude  from  the  following 
pages  these  merely  linguistic  studies.  Dissertations  coming  from 
the  school  of  the  lexicographer  Walter  von  Wartburg,  written  in 
Leipzig  and  Basel  as  well  as  in  Chicago,  follow  for  the  most  part 
the  same  lexicographical-syntactic  trend  as  those  of  the  school 
of  Charles  Bruneau,  e.g.  Linton  Cook  STEVENS  —265 —  La 
langue  de  Brantome  (Paris :  Nizet  et  Bastard,  1939) .  Of  course, 
there  are  some  remarks  on  style  in  the  aesthetical  sense  too. 
Whereas  Fritz  HASCHKE  —266—  "Die  Sprache  Richelieus 
nach  seinem  Brief  wechsel,"  LRS,  Abt.  I,  vol.  7  (1934),  has  ap- 
pended to  his  lexicological  study  only  one  chapter  on  style,  Ger- 
hard HEIDEL  —267—  "La  langue  et  le  style  de  Philippe  de 


262-267  Introduction  43 

Commynes,"  LRA,  Abt.  I,  vol.  8  (1934),  shows  how  Commynes 
endeavors  to  give  color  to  his  pale  language  by  using  from  time 
to  time  savory  popular  locutions  instead  of  colorless  verbs. 

In  brief,  as  soon  as  such  studies  reveal  the  slightest  aesthetical 
concern  with  the  uniqueness  of  an  individual  literary  language, 
they  result  in  literary  style  studies.  The  particular  and  original 
patterns  followed  by  writers  and  poets  in  choosing  and  combin- 
ing different  linguistic  expressions  and  forms  in  new  and  original 
stylistic  compounds  will  be  the  main  interest  of  the  studies  to  be 
reviewed  here.  These  studies  contributed  by  scholars  of  differ- 
ent countries  embrace  the  following  authors :  Chretien  de  Troyes, 
Gautier  d'Arras,  Villehardouin,  Joinville,  Marco  Polo,  Philippe 
de  Commynes,  Eustache  Deschamps,  Christine  de  Pisan,  les 
Rhetoriqueurs,  Rabelais,  Calvin,  Clement  Marot,  Maurice  Sceve, 
Agrippa  d'Aubigne,  Montaigne,  Saint  Amant,  Saint  Pierre  Fou- 
rier, St.  Francois  de  Sales,  Guez  de  Balzac,  Rotrou,  Corneille, 
Richelieu,  Moliere,  Pascal,  La  Fontaine,  Racine,  Bossuet,  Le  Due 
de  Saint-Simon,  Perrault,  Fontenelle,  Montesquieu,  Hamilton, 
Voltaire,  J. -J.  Rousseau,  Marmontel,  Chateaubriand,  George 
Sand,  Leconte  de  Lisle,  Theophile  Gautier,  Merimee,  Maurice  de 
Guerin,  Eugenie  de  Guerin,  Stendhal,  Honore  de  Balzac,  Michelet, 
Flaubert,  les  Goncourt,  Zola,  Daudet,  Maupassant,  Huysmans, 
Bloy,  Paul  Adam,  Anatole  France,  P.-L.  Courier,  Lemonnier, 
Verhaeren,  Mallarme,  Barres,  E.  Rod,  Barbusse,  Jules  Romains, 
Romain  Rolland,  Jules  Renard,  Giraudoux,  Thibaudet,  Marcel 
Proust,  De  la  Fouchardiere,  Supervielle,  Leon  Daudet,  Duhamel, 
Peguy,  Apollinaire,  Colette,  Monique  Saint-Helier,  Mauriac, 
Valery,  and  Ramuz ;  the  troubadours ;  Jacopone  da  Todi,  Dante, 
Guittone  d'Arezzo,  Cellini,  Santa  Caterina  da  Siena,  Masuccio, 
Annibale  Caro,  Basile,  Folengo,  Bernardo  and  Torquato  Tasso, 
Sacchetti,  Leonardo  da  Vinci,  Galilei,  Guicciardini,  Vico,  Alfieri, 
Manzoni,  Meli,  Berchet,  Foscolo,  Carducci,  Mussolini,  Scarfoglio, 
Pea ;  Berceo,  Cristobal  Colon,  Fernan  Perez  de  Guzman,  Lope  de 
Vega,  Santa  Teresa,  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz,  Cervantes,  Velez  de 
Guevara,  Alarcon,  Quevedo,  Gracian,  Gongora,  Calderon,  Perez 
Galdos,  Estanislao  del  Campo,  Valera,  Azorin,  Enrique  Larreta, 
Ruben  Dario,  Manuel  Diaz,  Blasco  Ibanez,  Bolivar,  Guiraldes, 
Miro,  Lorca,  Cernuda ;  Fernao  Lopes,  Vieira,  Camoes,  Herculano, 
E§a  de  Queiroz,  Camillo,  Fialho,  Machado  de  Assis;  Eminescu, 
Creanga.  All  these  studies,  some  extensive,  some  more  sketchy, 
concern  artistically  used  language  of  writers  or  works  and  lit- 


44  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       268-270 

erary  schools  without  transcending  the  domain  of  language,  i.e. 
style  in  the  narrowest  sense  of  the  word.  An  attempt  will  be  made 
to  present  the  material  according  to  the  development  of  the  meth- 
ods in  stylistic  investigation  and  according  to  schools  and  groups 
of  investigators  in  the  different  countries. 

A.    Earlier  and  Arbitrary  Attempts  at  Style 
Investigation,  mainly  in  France 

This  chapter  will  consider  first  some  older,  isolated  pioneer 
studies.  Remarks  will  include  the  advantages  of  the  different 
methods  and  their  limitation  to  single  works  or  their  extension 
to  groups  of  authors.  The  different  Romanic  literatures  will  be 
kept  apart  only  as  far  as  feasible  and  possible  under  the  method- 
ological angle  of  approach  which  has  been  chosen  as  the  primary 
viewpoint. 

A  landmark  in  breaking  away  from  the  merely  "syntactical" 
presentation  of  the  style  of  an  author  is  Lazare  SAINEAN 
— 268 —  La  langue  de  Rabelais,  2  vols.  (Paris:  de  Bocard,  1922- 
23).  Sainean,  primarily  interested  in  an  etymological  and  fac- 
tual interpretation  of  the  rather  obscure  lexicon  and  idiomatic 
forms  of  Rabelais,  also  tried  to  get  at  the  psyche  and  mental 
attitudes  of  the  author.  Embracing  "les  profondeurs  de  la 
pensee  rabelaisienne  dans  la  diversite  infinie  de  ses  formes  ex- 
pressives"  (II,  p.  491),  he  presents  Rabelais'  speech  as  unique: 
the  Latinisms  as  adjusted  to  stylistic  purposes;  the  Hellenisms, 
archaisms  and  dialecticisms  as  conscious  decorative  elements; 
the  metaphors  as  reflections  of  favorite  ideas,  which  reveal 
Rabelais'  fantasy  and  gigantic  universality;  the  invention  of 
proper  names  as  a  manifestation  of  the  social  criticism  of  the 
author. 

Lucien  REFORT  — 269 —  Essai  d' introduction  a  une  etude 
lexicologique  de  Michelet  (Paris:  Champion,  1923),  tries  in  a 
psychological  manner  still  somewhat  clumsy,  to  derive  the  char- 
acteristics of  Michelet's  vocabulary  from  his  idearium  and  in- 
clinations. Thus  his  numerous  nomina  agentis  and  verba  facti- 
tiva  find  an  explanation  in  his  active  liberalism;  his  arbitrary 
semantics,  in  his  willful  personality. 

Pierre  ADAM  — 270 —  La  langue  du  Due  de  Saint-Simon.  Le 
vocabulaire  et  les  images  (Nancy,  1920),  particularly  the  last 
chapter  (XV:  "Le  vocabulaire  et  Thomme)  belongs  also  to  these 


271-276  Earlier  Style  Investigation  45 

first  investigations  which  have  constructed  a  bridge  between  the 
contents  of  a  literary  work  and  its  linguistic  expression,  while 
in  Mary  BURNS  — 271 —  La  langue  d'Alphonse  Daudet  (Paris: 
Jouve,  1916) ,  its  antecessor  by  four  years,  the  linking  elements 
between  form  and  substance  are  still  very  weakly  established. 
The  idiomatic  usages  of  Daudet  are  scrupulously  listed  on  328 
pages,  so  that  the  book  has  value  as  an  inventory  for  "Mots 
d'emprunt,"  "Creations  nouvelles,,,  "Mots  affectionnes,"  "Struc- 
ture et  rhythme  des  phrases,"  "Prosopopees  et  personifications," 
"Metaphores  et  comparaisons."    During  the  twenties  the  eye  for 
striking  stylistic  features  seems  to  become  sharper.     Whereas 
L.  VINCENT  — 272 —  La  langue  et  le  style  rustiques  de  George 
Sand  dans  les  romans  champetres    (Paris:   Champion,   1916), 
looks  only  for  the  "vocabulaire  berrichon"  in  general,  Alexis 
FRANCOIS  — 273 —  "Sur  une  particularite  de  la  langue   de 
Flaubert,"  ML,  380-385,  deals  profoundly  with  the  stylistic  im- 
plications of  "verbes  transitifs  conjugues   sous  forme  prono- 
minale:    Tar    moments    ils    s'echangeaient    une    parole',"    and 
"Verbes  intransitifs  a  conjugaison  pronominale  preferes:  'II  ne 
fallait  peut-etre  pas  se  desesperer'."     These  constructions  are 
interpreted  as  conveying  a  sense  of  intimacy  to  the  expression. 
Marcel  PROUST  —274—  "A  propos  du  style  de  Flaubert," 
Chroniques   (Paris:  Gallimard,  1927),  193-211,  in  a  more  syn- 
thetical approach,  denies  Flaubert  the  quality  of  a  metaphorical 
style  which,  however,  seems  richly  compensated  by  his  new  and 
personal  use  of  all  the  narrative  tenses,  particularly  the  im- 
perfect in  the  style  indirect  libre :  "done  cet  imparf ait .  .  .  change 
entierement  Paspect  des  choses  et  des  etres."  (p.  198-99) .  Gaston 
GUILLAUMIE  — 275 —  L.  Guez  de  Balzac  et  la  prose  franqaise, 
Contribution  a  V etude  de  la  langue  et  du  style  pendant  la  pre- 
miere moitie  du  XVIIe  siecle  (Paris:  Picard,  1927),  is  a  work 
on  a  large  stylistic  scale.     It  describes  and  evaluates  with  pre- 
cision the  stylistic  realizations  of  one  of  the  founders  of  clas- 
sical French  prose.     The  work  does  not  stress  Balzac's  person- 
ality but  an  ideal  envisioned  as  the  raison  d'etre  for  those  first 
linguistic  foundations  of  classical  mitigation.     The  reason  why 
only  an  inventory,  however  interesting,  is  given  by  M.  SOURIAU 
— 276 —  "La  langue  de  Voltaire  d'apres   sa  correspondance," 
RHLF,  XXVII   (1921),  105-131;  279-288;  423-449,  is  that  the 
approach,  with  the  aid  of  ready-made  rhetorical  patterns,  makes 
the  psychological  interpretation  impossible. 


46  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors        277-283 

This  older  listing  of  figures  of  speech,  including  also  rarer 
ones  like  double  chiasms,  vers  rapportees,  etc.  prevails  in  style 
studies  on  the  Middle-Ages  like  Kurt  LEWENT  —277—  "Ob- 
servations on  Old  Provencal  Style  and  Vocabulary,"  MLQ,  II 
(1941),  203-224.    The  French  school  up  to  Bruneau  and  Cressot 
is  still  working  in  this  fashion  even  within  the  modern  periods. 
These  investigators  of  statistically  enumerated  figures  of  speech 
may  be  considered  first  explorers  who  trace  a  reliable  stylistic 
atlas  of  the  linguistic  particularities  of  an  author,  leaving  to 
others  the  psychological-aesthetic  refinement  of  interpretation. 
After  the  sweeping  article  by  G.   LAMARCHE  —278—  "La 
plenitude  du  style  dans  Saint  Frangois  de  Sales,"  RDo   (June 
1924),  there  will  be  appreciation  for  the  good  material  oiiered 
by  Ch.  GUERLIN  DE  GUER  in  —279—  "La  langue  et  le  style 
de  Saint  Francois  de  Sales,"  RHPH,  II  (1934),  13-36.     He  ob- 
serves and  lists  word  groupings  of  the  Saint:  "deux  substantifs 
accoles,"  "trois  adjectifs  accoles,"  "symetries  et  balancements" — 
certainly  typical  expressions  of  the  cyclothymic  type  of  saintli- 
ness,  a  psychoanalyst  probably  would  have  added.    But  Guerlin 
de  Guer  stops   at  his  statistics.     Ch.   GUERLIN   DE   GUER 
_280—  "Sur  la  langue  du  picard  Jean  Calvin,"  FM,  V  (1937), 
303-316,  not  only  considers  the  lexicological  Picardism  of  Calvin, 
but  also  his  colorful  peasant  imagery,  which  gives  his  humanistic 
language  picturesqueness  and  vigor. 

M.  ROSTAING  —281—  "La  langue  de  P.-L.  Courier,"  FM, 
VIII  (1940),  57-G4,  and  143-157,  discusser  Courier's  vocabulary 
with  its  many  borrowings  from  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth 
centuries,  including  certain  points  of  phraseology  and  syntax: 
"Courier  ecrit  une  langue  essentiellement  savante"  (151). 
Thelma  FOGELBERG  — 282 —  La  langue  et  le  style  de  Paul 
Adam,  These  (Paris:  Droz,  1939),  observes  as  typical  in  this 
author  the  "Alliance  de  mots  extraordinaires,"  "Verbes  a  sujet 
impersonnel,"  and  a  great  many  different  nominal  constructions. 
This  critic  also  stresses  the  violent  type  of  landscape-presenta- 
tion, and  that  curious  impressionism  interpreted  as  psychological 
when  adjectives  are  replaced  by  substantives:  Uoncle  Augustin 
arrivait  dans  Vor  de  son  uniforme  (p.  133).  But  all  these  ob- 
servations remain  membra  disjecta  and  are  not  reduced  to  a 
structural  unity.  Albert  DAUZAT  —283—  "Le  style  de  Ga- 
briel Faure,"  FM,  III  (1935),  312-314,  is  a  rather  wholesale  deal- 


234-286  The  German  School  47 

ing  with  the  "classique  evolue  et  adapte"  as  it  occurs  in  the 
Pay  sages  litter  aires  of  this  delicate  modern  author. 

Thus  the  older  method,  particularly  in  favor  with  the  con- 
servative French,  still  continues  to  consider  a  style  study  an  in- 
vestigation of  a  text  from  the  viewpoint  of  its  deviation  from 
the  common  and  generally  adopted  vocabulary,  syntax,  idiomatic 
expressions  and  frozen  metaphors  of  a  language,  without  prob- 
ing into  artistic  meaning,  structure  and  psychology.  This 
method  inherited  from  classical  philology,  pedantic  though  it 
may  be,  furnishes  by  all  means  the  most  solid  account  which  may 
be  given  of  style  features  present  in  a  literary  work.  The  con- 
servative French  method  demonstrates  that  even  contemporary 
styles  and  the  manner  of  their  analysis  partake  of  the  tradition 
of  Latin  theories  from  which  the  style  of  the  Middle  Ages,  the 
Renaissance  and  the  Baroque  developed  almost  exclusively.  This 
has  been  brought  home  most  convincingly  also  by  Ernst  Robert 
CURTIUS  — 284 —  Eiiropaische  Literatur  und  Lateinisches  Mit- 
telalter  (Bern:  Francke,  1948),  single  chapters  of  which  will  be 
mentioned  later  (see  nos.  625,  994,  1005,  1008,  1026,  1073,  1092, 
1162,  1184). 

B.     The  German  School  around  Vossler  and  Spitzer 

The  century-old  type  of  rhetorical  analysis  had  crept  from 
classical  philology  into  the  modern  language  dissertations  of 
German  and  English  universities.  J.-H.  WHITELEY  — 285 — 
Etude  sur  la  langue  et  le  style  de  Leconte  de  Lisle  (Oxford: 
Hart,  1911)  may  still  stand  as  an  example.  But  after  World 
War  I  something  revolutionary  happened  in  Germany.  Style 
was  conceived,  as  mentioned  above  in  chapter  II,  as  an  expres- 
sion of  the  poet,  of  a  structural  entity,  the  spirit  of  a  time  and 
the  mentality  of  a  nation.  The  modern  German  approach,  which 
may  be  called  phenomenological  style  investigation,  and  cer- 
tainly must  be  linked  to  the  same  trend  in  the  philosophy  of 
Husserl,  has  undertaken  daring  interpretations  of  the  essential 
traits  of  artistic  language.  This  type  of  work  started  with  the 
theories  of  Karl  Vossler  (see  chapters  I  and  II)  and  with  the 
practical  approach  of  Leo  SPITZER.  His  — 286—  Studien  zu 
Henri  Barbusse  (Bonn:  Cohen,  1920)  represents  a  kind  of  psy- 
choanalytical method.  Leo  Spitzer  discovered  that  Barbusse,  in 
the   choice   of   his   metaphorical   expressions,    betrays    himself 


43  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors        287-294 

against  his  will  as  an  erotic  type,  whatever  may  be  the  topic  of 
his  discussion.  Thus  the  parole  of  an  author  revealed  something 
else  than  the  logically  expressed  thought. 

Together  with  Spitzer's  there  were  some  other  approaches  aim- 
ed at  linking  syntax  with  general  culture  and  art.  G.  LOSCH 
— 287 —  Die  impressionistische  Syntax  der  Goncourt,  Diss.  Er- 
langen  (Nurnberg,  1919),  tried  to  parallelize  the  ecriture  artiste 
with  special  cases  of  impressionistic  art ;  he  linked  the  tentative 
enumeration  with  the  painter's  "dosification,"  and  new  idiomatic 
ways  of  substantivation  of  qualificatives,  with  the  new  type  of 
impressionistic  coloring,  etc.  Here  in  stylistics  the  parallels  of 
another  art  were  used  for  the  first  time  to  stress  the  art  element 
involved  in  literary  language.  By  giving  special  attention  to 
the  rhythm  and  melodiousness  of  the  language  of  an  author, 
another  horizon  was  opened,  the  domain  of  music.  Instead  of 
enumerating  all  studies  of  this  type,  Robert  Brauer  — 288 —  "Der 
Stilwille  Merimees,"  AR,  XIV  (1930),  153-236,  may  stand  para- 
digmatically  as  the  most  careful  approach. 

But  Leo  Spitzer  remained  the  Columbus  of  modern  style 
analysis.  He  improved  his  own  method  year  after  year  in  studies 
spread  over  almost  all  of  the  Romance  language  periodicals,  and 
finally  collected  them  in  — 289 —  Stilsprachen  (the  second  vol- 
ume of  the  work  Stilstudien;  the  first  volume,  Sprachstile,  is  con- 
cerned with  syntax)  (Miinchen:  Hueber,  1928),  and  in  — 290 — 
RomanischeStil-  und  Literaturstudien,  2  vols.  KRA,  I  and  II, 
1931,  followed  by  a  collection  of  studies:  —291 —  Linguistics 
and  Literary  History,  Essays  in  Stylistics  (Princeton:  Univ. 
Press,  1948),  and  — 292 —  A  Method  of  Interpreting  Literature 
(Northampton,  Mass.:  Smith  College,  1949).  In  Stilsprachen, 
the  oldest  and  purest  of  these  collections,  stress  is  laid  on  verbal 
aspects  exclusively.  Spitzer  offers  in  brilliant  fashion  the  styl- 
istic peculiarities  of  Charles  Peguy,  Jules  Romains,  and  Marcel 
Proust,  to  quote  only  the  most  significant  studies  of  this  work 
where  fundamental  problems  are  stated.  The  study  — 293 — 
Zu  Charles  Peguy 's  Stil  (pp.  301-364)  presents  all  the  types  of 
permutation,  constant  variations  of  a  theme,  "emboitemefrrt," 
litanies  of  synonyms,  "wreaths"  and  "carpet  designs"  made  out 
of  words,  and  other  repetitional  figures  of  speech  of  this  writer. 
This  style  is  explained  as  a  peasant's  tenacity  under  the  par- 
ticular influence  of  an  attitude  called  by  Bergson  elan  vital.  The 
analysis  entitled  — 294 —  Der  Unanimismus  Jules  Romains*  im 


295-298  The  German  School  49 

Spiegel  seiner  Sprache  (pp.  208-300)  proves  that  Jules  Romains' 
vocabulary  and  metaphors  reveal  the  two  tendencies  of  an  ab- 
sorption of  the  individual  by  the  group  (dissoudre,  pulveriser, 
diluer,  fondre,  evaporer,  volatiliser) ,  and  of  the  enjoyment  of 
the  individual  in  the  enhancement  of  his  own  life  by  participation 
in  the  group  (exister  plus,  davantage,  ardemment;  engraisser, 
se  dilater,  se  gonfler,  devenir) .  The  reaction  of  an  anti-aesthetic 
linguist  to  these  revolutionary  insights  comes  to  the  fore  in  Leo 
JORDAN  —295—  "Le  style  de  Jules  Romains,"  RR,  XXXVI 
(1935),  107-117.  SPITZER's  inquiry  into  the  style  of  Marcel 
Proust  — 296 —  Zum  Stil  Marcel  Prousts  (Stilsprachen,  pp.  365- 
497),  dissects  this  style  according  to  intellectual,  critical-ironical 
and  merely  impressionistic  elements,  and  finds  three  distinct 
sentence  types  (explosion,  disposition,  junction),  all  of  which 
reveal  Proust's  complicated  concept  of  the  world.  They  are  full 
of  parentheses  and  afterthoughts  which  hint  at  the  author's 
world-weariness;  they  have  an  unusually  high  supply  of  words 
with  the  prefixes  in  and  re,  indicative  of  the  irreality  of  a  para- 
psychological  existence  and  of  a  search  for  immortality  in  a 
revived  and  transfigured  past. 

Spitzer's  stylistic  study  on  Proust  was  more  systematic  than 
the  refined  but  more  subjective  appreciation  of  Proust  given  at 
the  same  time  by  Ernst  Robert  CURTIUS  in  — 297 —  Franzo- 
sischer  Geist  im  neuen  Europa  (Stuttgart:  Deutsche  Verlagsan- 
stalt,  1925),  which  appeared  as  a  monograph  in  French:  Marcel 
Proust  (Paris:  Revue  Nouvelle,  1928).  Curtius  arrived  at  re- 
sults approximating  those  of  Spitzer,  but  his  aim  was  different. 
He  showed  for  instance  how  a  series  of  Proustian  metaphors 
taken  from  different  walks  of  life  are  capable  of  unraveling  the 
secret  of  a  particular  phenomenon  not  accessible  in  a  direct 
way.  Spitzer's  analysis  was  supplemented  by  a  special  study  of 
Proust's  sentence  types  in  all  their  details,  by  an  indirect  pupil, 
Alfons  WEGENER  — 298 —  Impressionismus  und  Klassizismus 
im  Werke  Marcel  Prousts,  Diss.  Frankfurt,  1930. 

The  first  studies  of  Spitzer  share  with  the  French  mono- 
graphs on  poets  the  desire  to  portray  the  individuality  of  an 
author,  but  they  surpass  them  in  the  exploration  of  psychological 
and  even  psychoanalytical  bases,  which  seem  to  provide  the 
raison  d'etre  of  the  stylistic  traits  discovered  in  each  specific 
case.  On  the  other  hand  Spitzer  almost  always  renounces  for 
the  explanation  the  panoramic  view  of  cultural  factors  because 


50  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       299-301 

they  would  obscure  the  alleged  immanent  self-evidence  of  the 
purely  stylistic  and  verbal  element.  Overdoing  the  psychological, 
Spitzer  also  underestimates  the  aesthetic  problem.  This  sur- 
prising contradiction  does  not  hinder  him  however,  from  deal- 
ing with  questions  which  are  in  themselves  highly  aesthetic. 
Leo  SPITZER  —299—  "Die  klassische  Dampfung  in  Racines 
Stil,"  AR,  XII  (1928),  361-4,72,  and  KRA,  I  (1931),  133-268,  re- 
veals how  Racine  mitigates  the  baroque  taste  of  his  time  by 
using  the  indefinite  instead  of  the  definite  article,  on  for  nous, 
nous  for  je,  si  and  tant  with  adjective  instead  of  superlatives, 
the  proper  name  instead  of  the  personal  pronoun,  abstract  in- 
stead of  concrete  nouns,  phraseological  instead  of  simple  verbs, 
veiled  instead  of  clear  images,  paradoxes  instead  of  logical  state- 
ments. 

An  early  trace  of  Spitzer's  type  of  intense  psychological  inter- 
pretation of  style  can  be  found  in  G.  RIEDER  —300—  "J.-K. 
Kuysmans'  Sprache,"  ZFS,  XLVII  (1924),  125-161,  a  study 
which,  with  a  programmatic  intention,  correlates  the  essential 
stylistic  traits  with  fundamental  psychological  propensities  in 
order  to  construe  with  them  a  "linguistic  physiognomy,"  one  of 
Rieder's  terms. 

C.    French  Studies  under  the  Influence  of  Bally  and  Bruneau 

The  older  French  type  of  investigation  improved  by  the 
Geneva  method,  sponsored  by  Bruneau,  Dauzat  and  other  schol- 
ars writing  for  the  periodical  Le  Francais  moderne,  produced  as 
a  particularly  valuable  study:  Marcel  CRESSOT  — 301 —  La 
phrase  et  le  vocabulaire  de  Joris-Karl  Huysmans  (Paris:  Droz, 
1939).  Cressot,  who  heard  by  chance  also  about  the  German 
method  from  a  Nancy  librarian,  makes  us  see  the  man  Huysmans 
through  his  language;  he  shows  how  Huysmans  expresses  in- 
sistence and  emotion  by  duplicating  the  noun  by  means  of  a 
pronoun  in  the  same  main  sentence ;  how  he  keeps  the  reader  in 
suspense  by  "phrases  pareilles,"  how  he  expresses  enthusiasm 
by  long  epithets,  and  irritation  by  a  distorted  word  order.  The 
importance  of  this  solid  investigation  has  been  made  clear  by 
W.  von  Wartburg,  ZRP,  LXI  (1941),  387-92.  How  a  fusion  of 
the  languages  of  the  proletarians  described  and  of  the  narrator 
describing  them  becomes  possible  through  Emile  Zola's  stylized 
argot  and  langue  vulgaire  has  been  demonstrated  by  the  same 


302-308  French  Studies  51 

Marcel  CRESSOT  —302—  "La  langue  de  FAssommoir,"  FM, 
VIII  (1940),  193-207.  A  study  on  a  humorous  style  is  Maurice 
SCHONE  —303—  "La  langue  de  Georges  de  la  Fouchardiere," 
FM,  VII  (1939),  113-24.  By  stressing  the  use  of  comparisons 
closely  related  to  the  habitat  of  the  persons  represented,  Hia 
LANDAU  —304—  "Etude  sur  le  style  de  Camille  Lemonnier," 
FM,  V  (1937),  247-62,  penetrates  to  the  very  stylistic  center  of 
naturistic  and  pantheistic  visualization  in  this  Belgian  writer. 
Maurice  SCHONE  — 305 —  La  langue  de  Flaubert:  A  propos  de 
la  correspondance,  Langue  ecrite  et  langue  parlee  (Paris: 
D'Artrey,  1947),  analyzes  the  epistolary  language  of  Flaubert. 
It  is  a  fragmentary,  vulgar,  and  even  obscene  language;  it  has 
many  neologisms ;  it  is  lacking  in  grammatical  links,  full  of  ex- 
clamations, mimetisms,  interjections,  particularly  the  heins  rep- 
resentative of  all  the  other  prises  au  collet;  the  repetitions  are 
representative  of  his  vulgar  insistance  together  with  the  prefixa- 
tion  and  the  orthographic  modifications  (henaurme,  hamour)  ; 
images  and  rhythm  appear  elaborate  (see  no.  334). 

The  French  have  begun  in  their  own  way  to  embrace  psycho- 
logical methods  in  stylistics,  as  is  evident  with  Mother  H.  DER- 
R£AL  — 306 —  Le  style  de  Saint  Pierre  Fourier.  Contributions 
aux  etudes  modernes  de  stylistique  (Paris:  Droz,  1942),  based 
on  her  — 307 —  La  langue  de  Saint  Pierre  Fourier  (Paris:  Droz, 
1942) .  She  investigates  the  aspects  of  individual  expression  in 
this  sacred  orator  and  letter  writer  of  the  seventeenth  century, 
distinguishing  between  his  natural  Vosgian  style  and  his  higher 
stylistic  aspirations  fostered  by  his  readings.  It  is  by  stylistic 
analysis  that  Mother  Derreal  is  able  to  give  this  little-known 
figure  a  remarkable  place  in  literary  history.  Pierre  NARDIN 
— 308 —  La  langue  et  le  style  de  Jules  Renard  (Paris:  Droz, 
1942),  versatile  in  description  and  explanation,  stresses  Jules 
Renard's  originality  despite  his  keeping  close  to  the  French  sen- 
tence of  normal  rhythm,  which  is  strikingly  broken  by  Renard's 
unusual  imagery  ("ce  papillotement  d'images  .  .  .  vraiment 
neuves,  imprevues")  and  his  lively  dialogues.  Nardin,  like  Mother 
Derreal  a  disciple  of  Bruneau,  although  handicapped  in  a  certain 
way  by  the  preconceived  stylistic-syntactical  recipes  in  the  elan 
necessary  for  an  analyzer  of  literary  style,  nevertheless  pene- 
trates Renard's  art.  He  finds  Renard  torn  between  an  inclination 
towards  simplicity  and  a  tendency  towards  preciosity,  but  has 
the  artistic  instinct  to  give  in  to  the  simple,  ideal  sentence  of 


52  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       309-310 

short  coordinations.  As  to  the  genesis  of  a  sentence,  then,  it 
may  be  said  that  a  skeleton  is  upholstered  with  original  figures 
of  speech.  The  rhythmical  paragraphs  are  agreeable  to  the  eye 
and  always  acceptable  to  the  ear. 

II  a  montre  qu'il  n'est  pas  besoin  d'une  phrase  periodique  et 
ample  pour  rendre  la  richesse  de  la  vie,  mais  que  la  phrase  .  .  . 
limee,  polie,  concentree  peut  traduire  tout  ...   (p.  329). 

Jacques  SCHERER  —309 —  L'expression  litteraire  dans 
Voeuvre  de  Mallarme  (Paris:  Droz,  1947)  seems  rather  to  re- 
turn to  the  older  methods  but  "en  connaissance  de  cause"  as  far 
as  the  new  ones  are  concerned.  He  gives  the  inventory  of  the 
stylistic  means  of  Mallarme,  but  makes  the  following  program- 
matic restrictions:  "On  peut  parfaitement,  voyons-nous,  faire 
abstraction  du  sens  d'une  oeuvre  pour  en  etudier  la  forme"  (p. 
10).  Therefore  Scherer,  although  admittedly  knowing  the  work 
of  Spitzer  very  well,  makes  clear  by  his  examples  that  a  care- 
fully done  descriptive  stylistics  may  be  of  the  same  value  as  any 
type  of  stylistics  of  expression.  Thanks  to  Scherer,  it  is  now 
definitely  known  that  the  language  of  inspiration  for  Mallarme 
was  Latin  rather  than  English,  that  his  vocabulary  was  the  gen- 
eral and  not  an  esoteric  one,  that  the  "rare"  words  in  his  system 
are  few.  His  novelty  consists  in  the  stress  on  the  syntactical 
group :  substantif  +  adverb  +  pronoun,  neglecting  verbs  and 
conjunction;  in  his  individual  semantics  (avare  silence,  massive 
nuit)  ;  in  his  omissions,  suppressions  and  ellipses,  producing 
musical  and  algebraic  relations  in  the  sentence.  Mallarme  uses 
the  corrective  scheme  A,  not  B,  replaces  "presque"  by  je  dirai, 
the  plurals  by  maint  +  singular.  He  builds  types  of  long  sen- 
tences termed  "a  rallonges"  and  "a  etages."  He  has  choice  sur- 
prising clausulae:  3  +  3,  3+2,  and  3+1.  There  are  also  perplex- 
ing and  ambivalent  constructions  in  well-arranged  dissymmet- 
ries, and  various  forms  of  repetition.  Mallarme's  style  reveals  just 
the  opposite  trends  from  those  found  by  Marcel  Cressot  (no.  301) 
for  his  contemporary  Huysmans.  Mallarme's  insight,  that  the 
word  has  no  individuality  if  not  seen  in  its  symbiosis  with  other 
words  within  the  sentence,  is  shared  by  modern  linguists. , 

Spitzer's  study  on  Proust  was  continued  in  France  by  Jean 
MOUTON  —310—  he  style  de  Marcel  Proust  (Paris:  Correa, 
1948).  Mouton,  splendidly  analyzing  Proust's  own  Pastiches  in 
order  to  detect  his  theoretical  style  tendencies,  stresses  anew  the 


311-314  French  Studies  53 

images,  rhythm,  enumerations,  and  the  language  of  the  different 
characters.  Following  the  methods  of  Charles  Du  Bos  in  addi- 
tion to  those  of  Bruneau  and  Spitzer,  Mouton  goes  from  the 
psychological  into  the  moral  side  of  Proust's  stylistic  informa- 
tion, and  finds  that  his  "slow"  style  of  refinement  and  preciosity, 
of  "allongement"  and  prolixity,  as  definitely  opposed  to  the 
styles  of  Voltaire  and  Tolstoy,  is  irrefutably  the  type  of  an 
"edifying"  style.  Jacques  Gabriel  CAHEN  —311—  "Le  vo- 
cabulaire  de  Racine,"  RLR,  XVI  (1940-45),  1-240  (see  no.  299 
as  counterpart) ,  starts  from  the  general  French  vocabulary  of 
the  seventeenth  century,  proceeds  to  the  general  literary  vo- 
cabulary, then  to  the  vocabulary  of  tragedy,  and  finally  to  the 
individual  vocabulary  of  Racine.  He  considers  the  influence  of 
subject  matter,  characters,  aesthetical  implications;  he  distin- 
guishes the  role  of  a  word  in  the  sentence,  and  in  the  verse, 
meter,  harmony,  grouping,  the  local  color  in  the  word  chosen, 
and  stresses  the  rarity  of  necessary  archaisms  and  neologisms. 
Valery's  poetical  style  was  analyzed  in  masterly  French  fashion 
by  the  Dane  Hans  S0RENSEN  —312—  La  poesie  de  Paul  Va- 
lery.  Etude  stylistique  sur  la  Jeune  Par  que  (K0benhavn:  Busek, 
1944).  He  tries  to  apply,  however,  the  pattern  of  the  linguistic 
method  of  Hjelmslev  to  the  grouping  and  listing  of  traits, 
motifs,  qualities  of  vocabulary  and  syntax.  He  chooses  only  one 
of  Valery's  poems  and  links  conclusively  the  traits  analyzed 
therein  with  the  work  of  the  poet  in  its  entirety.  This  book,  al- 
though boring  by  its  repetitions,  is  a  high  ranking  analysis  of 
the  dualism  of  the  concepts  corps:  esprit,  desordre:  ordre.  The 
expression  forms,  mainly  metaphorical,  grappe  immense  for 
"universe,"  fruit  de  velours  for  "human  body,"  culminate  in  the 
symbols  etoiles  for  the  night  of  the  sex  life,  and  soleil  -f-  cygne 
for  a  reasonable,  guided  life,  compatible  with  the  powers  of  the 
mind. 

In  earlier  years  the  French  gens  de  lettres  used  to  adopt  for 
such  a  goal  a  less  rigid,  a  more  literary  and  playful  method, 
which  seems  sometimes  preferable  to  the  "new  stylistics"  just 
discussed.  Thus  Gabriel  DES  HONS  — 313 —  Anatole  France 
et  Jean  Racine  ou  La  cle  de  Fart  francien  (Paris:  Collin,  1927), 
and  Henri  BREMOND  — 314 —  Racine  et  Valery  (Paris:  Gras- 
set,  1930),  drew  the  sword  in  defense  of  the  eternal  stylistic 
values  of  classicism.  Among  the  different  chapters  of  Bremond's 
book,  the  one  that  deserves  our  special  attention  because  of  its 


54  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors        315-319 

relation  to  Spitzer's  problems  (see  no.  299),  is  "Racine  simple." 
After  Bremond,  only  one  other  causerie  has  considered  Valery's 
prose:  Max  RAPHAEL  — 315 —  "Anmerkungen  liber  den  Pro- 
sastil  von  Valery,"  DFR,  IV  (1931),  553-563. 

Even  the  strongest  philologists  now  seem  influenced  by  the 
new  French  criticism  of  Bremond,  Charles  Du  Bos  and  others. 
Ch.  GUERLIN  DE  GUER  —316—  "Antoine  Hamilton.  Sa 
langue  et  son  style,  etudies  dans  les  Memoires  du  Comte  de  Gram- 
mont,"  FM,  VIII  (1940),  290-306,  and  IX  (1941),  17-29,  does 
not  hide  his  admiration  for  this  foreigner  who  writes  an  abso- 
lutely faultless  French.  He  analyzes  Hamilton's  choice  and  po- 
sition of  words  "qui  par  leur  place,  par  leur  valeur  relative,  par 
leur  choc  et  leur  cliquetis  animent  1'idee" ;  he  stresses  Hamilton's 
artistic  use  of  repetition  and  antithesis  as  well  as  his  humour. 
With  the  French  method  of  "rapprochements,"  Proust's  style 
was  compared  to  Bossuet's  by  Leon  GUICHARD  — 317 —  Sept 
etudes  sur  Marcel  Proust  (Le  Caire:  Horus,  1942).  When,  in 
view  of  its  rhythm,  Dr.  Georges  Rivane  would  have  Proust's 
style  dependent  on  Proust's  asthma,  this  thesis  was  immediately 
rejected  by  R.  ETIEMBLE  —318—  "Le  style  de  Proust,"  TM, 
(Mai,  1947),  with  the  aid  of  a  comparison  of  the  subordinate 
clauses  of  Proust  with  those  of  Descartes — the  latter  being  con- 
ditioned by  thought,  not  asthma. 

Henri  WEBER  — 319 —  Le  langage  poetique  de  Maurice 
Sceve  dans  Belie  (Florence:  Institut  francais,  1948),  analyzes 
the  style  of  Maurice  Sceve  first  by  the  traditional  approach  of 
direct  appreciation,  consideration  of  sources,  predecessors,  con- 
temporaries and  successors.  Then  he  describes  this  language 
made  up  of  exquisite  neologisms  and  word  formations  (amari- 
tudes,  oblivion,  obtenebrer,  repentin)  ;  of  rich  fields  of  abstracts 
for  the  idea  of  pleasure,  unrest  and  pain ;  of  many  concrete  and 
sentimental  adjectives  combined  (De  son  opaque,  argentin  et 
cler  estre)  ;  surprising  adverbs  (ses  mains  celestement  blanches) , 
daring  substantivations  (Le  haut  bien  de  mon  vieux),  unusual 
condensations  counterbalanced  by  repetitions  steeped  in  an 
imagery  of  Italian  tradition,  but  of  an  original  rhythm  and 
movement.     His  result: 

Capable  de  raccourcis  fulgurants  qui  annoncent  la  densite  du  vers 
mallarmeen,  Sceve  demeure  prisonnier  .  .  .  d'une  technique  encore 
proche  de  celle  des  rhetoriqueurs  (p.  69). 


320-324  German  Doctoral  Dissertations  55 

Weber  shares  this  seamless  fusion  of  critical  appreciation  and 
correct  analysis  with  Antoine  GReGOIRE  — 320 —  "Le  style 
des  chroniqueurs  financiers,"  MB,  461-480.  Gregoire  explains 
that  the  stylistic  tendency  of  using  relentlessly  frozen  images 
leads  to  catachreses  of  incompatible  metaphors  as  well  as  to  the 
temptation  of  continuing  a  picture  only  vaguely  felt.  In  both 
cases  the  imagery  is  defrosted  and  a  cheap  "poetry,"  caught  be- 
tween conversation  and  literature,  results : 

Bien  des  plaies  doivent  etre  pansees,  et  la  Bourse 
ne  retrouvera  pas  tout  de  suite  le  sourire  .... 
Les  blessures  causees  par  la  baisse  sont  cicatrisees. 

It  is  interesting  to  see  that  one  of  these  less  aesthetic-critical, 
prosaic,  debunking  but  perhaps  correct  appraisals,  namely 
Charles  CHASSIS  — 321 —  Lueurs  sur  Mallarme  (Paris:  NRC, 
1947),  is,  according  to  an  older  strict  universitarian,  like  Albert 
DAUZAT  —322—  "La  langue  et  le  style  de  Mallarme,"  FM, 
XVIII  (1950),  244  ff.,  the  only  sound  analysis  of  Mallarme' s 
cryptic  language,  upsetting  all  the  "amateurs  de  Quintessence." 
The  new  though  conservatively  cautious  stylistic  trend  in 
France  is  visible  in  each  style  study  since  1940,  e.g.  M.  SCHONE 
_323—  "La  langue  et  le  style  de  Maupassant,"  FM,  IX  (1941), 
95-110,  and  207-222;  but  most  of  all  is  this  evident  in  the  new 
method  of  presenting  the  history  of  the  French  language.  Charles 
Bruneau's  stylistically  informed  continuation  of  Ferdinand 
Brunot,  Histoire  de  la  langue  frangaise,  tome  X  (Paris:  Colin, 
1943),  will  remain  a  landmark.  One  of  the  most  remarkable 
chapters,  the  study  of  Armand  WEIL  — 324 —  "La  langue  et  le 
style  de  Chateaubriand,"  (ib.,  781-857)  proceeds  from  work  to 
work,  accounting  for  Chateaubriand's  style  by  way  of  evolution. 
Hugo,  Musset,  Gautier,  Sainte-Beuve,  Lamenais,  Michelet, 
Balzac  are  yielding  to  shorter  analyses. 

D.     German  Doctoral  Dissertations  on  Style 

The  Spitzerian  approach  to  literary  language  was  sometimes 
attempted  by  beginners  who  started  from  a  preconceived  model 
of  stylistic  possibilities,  a  prepared  questionnaire,  so  to  speak, 
through  whose  meshes  dropped  the  most  precious  and  unique 
material,  which  alone  would  have  been  worthy  of  investigation. 
The  style  in  its  entirety  thus  remained  ignored.  Others  than 
Spitzer  himself,  however,  were  responsible  for  this  situation: 


56  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       325-330 

professors  whose  main  field  was  not  stylistics,  but  who  unfortu- 
nately tried  to  use  Spitzer's  most  personal  approach  as  a  general- 
izing method  and  a  stereotyped  pattern.    One  may  say,  by  prin- 
ciple, that  the  greater  number  of  stylistic  dissertations  which  ap- 
peared in  the  collection  of  the  University  of  Minister,  called 
Arbeiten  zur  Romanischen  Philologie,  sins  in  this  direction. 
Wilhelm  HUPPE  — 325 —  Der  Sprachstil  Gautiers  von  Arras, 
Diss.  Munster,  1937,  tries  to  establish  verbal  categories  for  a 
poete  courtois.    Wilhelm  FRIES  — 326 —  Der  Stil  der  Theater- 
stilcke  Rotrous,  Diss.  Wiirzburg,  1933,  tries  to  show  that  Rotrou's 
simplification  of  description  in  contradistinction  to  his  Spanish 
sources  leads  to  a  pre-state  of  French  classicism.    Unfortunately 
Fries  stops  short  of  the  distinctive  verbal  problems.     The  re- 
sult, of  course,  is  extremely  meager.  Joseph  MOUSSET  — 327 — 
Der  Stil  La  Fontaines  in  seinen  'Contes,'  Diss.  Munster,  1936, 
ponders  over  general  questions  of  syntax:  whether  there  be 
nominal  style,  paratactical  construction,  the  use  of  the  reflexive 
instead  of  the  passive,  style  indirect  libre,  historical  infinitives 
for  narrative  purposes,  etc.    Agnes  NORDICK  — 328 —  Der  Stil 
der  Marchen  Perraults,  Diss.  Munster,  1934,  follows  a  more  fer- 
tile method  by  a  continuous  comparison  of  stylization  of  the  same 
fairy-tale  motifs  by  Perrault  and  the  Grimm  brothers.     The 
French  versions  have  a  more  realistic,  cozy,  everyday  language 
(aupres  dub  on  feu;  elle  n'eilt  pu  ranger  quatre  porcelaines  sur 
le  bord  dfune  cheminee;  il  trouve  la  porte  fermee  &  double  tour), 
so  that  the  eery  and  uncanny  fairylike  atmosphere  would  be 
almost  lost,  if  it  were  not  saved  by  imperceptible  means  of  sug- 
gesting vague  surroundings  (pfir  dela  le  moulin  .  .  .  tout  la-bas, 
la-bas),  and  by  an  opera-like  mixing  up  of  polite  and  solemn 
words  in  moments  where  they  are  least  desired  (Au  secours,  au 
secours,  voila  M.  le  Marquis  de  Carabas  qui  se  noye) . 

Magda  MICHELS  —329—  Der  Stil  Chateaubriands,  Diss. 
Munster,  1938,  lists  the  evident  linguistic  features  only,  such  as 
overemphasis  by  duplication  of  words,  emotional  word-order, 
lyrical  comparisons,  tripartite  rhythmical  groups  of  different 
length,  and  the  author's  pet  words  revealing  his  whole  psychology 
(solitude,  repos,  paix,  triste,  malheur,  larmes,  fierte,  orgueil, 
mysterieux,  secret).  The  following  theses  maintain  a  similar 
level :  Hartmut  ARNDTS  —330—  Der  Stil  Leconte  de  Lisles, 
Diss.  Munster,  1936,  trying  to  replace  the  more  old  fashioned 


331-342  Spain  and  Portugal  57 

studies  of  this  style  by  J.  H.  Whiteley  (no.  285)  and  G.  A. 
KAISER  — 331 —  Stilstudien  zu  Leconte  de  Lisle  (Halle,  1917)  ; 
Helene  GUDDORF  —332 —  Der  Stil  Flauberts,  Diss.  Munster, 
1933,  modernizing,  without  success,  the  very  enlightening  older 
dissertation  by  Rudolf  LEHMANN  — 333 —  Die  Formelemente 
des  Stils  von  Flaubert  in  den  Romanen  und  Novellen,  MBRP,  5, 
(1911) ;  Charlotte  HOFFMANN  —334—  Der  Brief  stil  Flau- 
berts in  den  Jahren  1830-1862,  Diss.  Leipzig,  1941,  concentrating 
on  the  spontaneous  language  of  Flaubert;  A.  SCHULZ  — 335 — 
Die  Sprachkunst  Theophile  Gautiers,  Diss.  Munster,  1934;  R. 
BLANCK  — 336 —  Anatole  France  als  Stilkilnstler  (Paris:  Droz, 
1934),  and  H,  GROH  — 337 —  Der  publizistische  Stil  des  Leon 
Daudet,  Diss.  Heidelberg,  1935.  Kate  ZAESKE  —338—  Der 
Stil  Marcel  Prousts,  Diss.  Munster,  1937,  with  a  bit  more  origi- 
nality, discovers  artistic  implications  resulting  from  Proust's 
imitated  classical  recipe  of  "la  regie  des  trois  adjectifs,"  ex- 
tended to  fundamental  tripartite  sentences ;  she  finds  metaphors 
of  "intensive  life"  such  as  le  supplice  du  coucher,  le  drame  de  mon 
deshabillage,  and  striking  color  shades  e.g.  couleur  de  la  vigne 
vierge.  A  certain  originality  also  characterizes  the  stylistic 
interpretations  based  on  musical  parallels  by  Otto  FEST 
— 339 —  Stilistische  Untersuchungen  zu  Roniain  Rollands  'Pierre 
et  Luce/  Form-Entwicklung  und  Deutung,  Diss.  Jena,  1935,  and 
the  ergocentric  (centrally  literary)  notes  on  Rimbaud  by  Julius 
RUETSCH  —340—  "Zum  Stil  der  Prosagedichte  Arthur  Rim- 
bauds,"  NS,  XXXIX  (1931) ,  17-25.  Rudolph  H.  WOLF  —341— 
Der  Stil  der  Rhetoriqueurs,  Grundlagen  und  Grundformev , 
GBRP,  XXIX  (1939),  is  conversely  an  almost  irresponsible  es- 
cape from  the  task  of  a  style  investigation ;  pages  and  pages  on 
end  talk  about  background,  apparently  with  the  aim  to  define 
the  virtuosity  of  the  rhetoriqueurs  as  a  true  style.  None  the  less 
there  are  some  acceptable  remarks,  e.g.  the  arrangement  of  the 
descriptions  of  battles  coinciding  with  a  homage  to  the  king 
around  whose  person  and  importance  are  built  strategy,  speeches, 
marches  and  fights  and  many  other  phenomena. 

E.    Spain  and  Portugal 

In  the  Hispanic  field,  the  master,  Ram6n  MEN3NDEZ  PIDAL 
himself,  did  little  as  far  as  style  analysis  is  concerned.  He  ar- 
ranged earlier  sketches  in  a  little  volume  on  — 342 —  La  lengua 
de  Cristdbal  Colon,  el  estilo  de  Santa  Teresa  y  otros  estudios 


58  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       343-344 

sobre  el  siglo  XVI  (Madrid:  Espasa-Calpe,  1942).  Whereas 
the  language  of  Columbus  is  presented  more  linguistically  in  its 
mixed  character  out  of  Genoese,  Portuguese  and  Castilian,  Santa 
Teresa's  style  (pp.  147-179)  is  analyzed  in  its  popular  originality 
as  un  estilo  ermitano.  She  gives  the  diminutives  dignity  and  the 
images  a  striking  accent,  transcending  all  imitations  of  alleged 
sources.  But  Menendez  Pidal  on  the  whole  left  the  stylistic 
field  to  his  pupils,  Damaso  Alonso  and  Amado  Alonso,  both  of 
whom  must  be  linked  to  the  German  School. 

Damaso  ALONSO  — 343 —  La  lengua  poetica  de  Gonyora, 
parte  primera  (Madrid,  1935;  2nd  ed.  1950)  RFE,  Anejo  XX, 
started  these  style  studies  in  1927  with  a  reevaluation  of  G6n- 
gora  (see  no.  81).  Here  he  continues  them  by  demonstrating 
that  Gongora  knows  the  art  of  finding  mitigated  (not  exaggerat- 
ed) style  forms  like  the  French  classicists;  he  can  make  clever 
variations  with  a  restraining  formula  'A  if  not  B.'  From  each 
one  of  the  hundred  learned  Latinisms  which  G6ngora  uses,  about 
seven  are  invented  by  him;  Gongora's  own  innovations  hardly 
ever  extend  to  word  forms,  but  almost  exclusively  only  to  word 
meanings.  It  is  true  that  G6ngora  has  within  the  Latinisms  a 
small  group  of  favorite  exquisite  words  (purpura,  err  ante,  ca- 
noro,  nectar,  etc.).  The  anti-Gongoran  critics  of  his  own  time 
already  furnished  us  the  secret  of  the  fundamental  laws  of  the 
individual  stylistics  of  G6ngora:  the  misuse,  with  an  aesthetic 
intention,  of  the  systematic  repetition  of  the  same  speech-ele- 
ments. Alonso  has  analyzed  such  repetition  of  the  exquisite, 
whether  it  be  about  canoro  or  the  formula  "A  if  not  B,"  or  about 
the  rhythmic  imitation  of  the  Italian  esdrujulos.  All  these 
forms  stress  the  cultist  conception  of  the  world,  substituting  for 
the  vanishing  Spanish  world  power  the  power  of  a  poetic  form. 
Gongora's  world  empire  style  is  the  Greco-Latin  speech  majesty 
of  long  periods,  hyperbaton,  extension  of  almost  all  words 
through  apposition,  relative  passages,  epithets,  preference  for 
pure  Latin  and  Greek  constructions,  especially  ser  plus  the  dative 
with  the  meaning  of  "give  rise  to,"  "serve  to,"  "belong  to"; 
ablatives  absolute,  accusatives  of  limitation,  or  Petrarchan  meta- 
phors such  as  "soles"  (for  eyes) ,  "rubies"  (for  blood) ,  "oro"  (for 
hair),  "plata"  (for  water)  ;  wordplay,  mythological  allusions  and 
grammatization  of  certain  types  of  antithesis. 

Amado  ALONSO's  analysis  of  the  language  of  Enrique  Lar- 
reta  — 344 —  "El  modernismo  en  la  'Gloria  de  Don  Ramiro'," 


345  Spain  and  Portugal  59 

EE,  III  (Buenos  Aires,  1942),  149-315,  is  a  similar  achievement 
for  a  contemporary  style,  analyzed  according  to  Otis  H.  Green, 
HR,  XI  (1943,  p.  268),  with  a  "method  admirably  exemplified." 
This  style  study  presents  the  stylistic  entity  as  a  linguistic  net- 
work whose  intricate  threads  are  unravelled  one  after  the  other. 
The  historical  novel,  written  with  full  archeological  empathy  into 
sixteenth  century  Spain,  even  to  vocabulary  and  syntax,  never- 
theless betrays  the  author's  modern  "Weltanschauung"  by  his 
critical  epithets,  e.g.  portadas  enfdticas,  or  confinado  ambiente. 
It  even  reveals  his  literary  education  through  the  French  real- 
ists, Parnassians,  symbolists;  his  knowledge  of  old  pictures  and 
the  staging  style  of  the  Comedie  Francaise;  modern  psychology 
and  Spanish  folklore.  Amado  Alonso,  with  his  anatomic  scalpel 
in  hand,  could  say  concretely  for  this  or  that  passage  that  the 
type  is  dressed  according  to  an  old  cuadro,  that  he  has  gestures 
according  to  the  French  stage  custom,  and  that  there  is  a  de- 
scription of  colors  as  used  by  Monet.  The  sensorial  impressions 
are  shaded  according  to  their  function,  the  poetical  nimbus  is 
never  lacking,  the  aristocratic  attitude  of  the  author  is  always 
present;  there  is  an  interplay  of  all  his  life  interests  and  his 
erudition,  brought  out  in  a  combinative  style  similar  to  that  of 
Valle-Inclan,  because  sentimentality  and  mysterious  exaltation 
are  here  fused.  Of  course,  a  language  nourished  by  such  sources 
is  more  suited  to  description  than  narration.  The  evocation  of 
the  past  is  achieved  by  means  of  modern  refinement,  where  light 
is  shaded  by  verbs  like  rielar,  rebrillar,  centellear,  chispear, 
reverberear ;  odors  are  classified  according  to  their  rustic,  aristo- 
cratic, proletarian  and  symbolic  compounds ;  sounds  are  uttered 
con  severa  dulzura,  con  voz  velada,  vacilante,  temblorosa,  entre- 
cortada,  by  verbs  like  exclamar,  vociferar,  rugir,  musitar,  bal- 
bucir,  modular,  salmodiar,  etc.  The  spontaneous  language  of  the 
author  is  always  checked  by  the  language  type's  becoming  the 
epic-literary  genus,  and  by  a  certain  degree  of  sixteenth  century 
language  for  the  historical  setting. 

Among  studies  done  by  Amado  Alonso's  pupils,  an  analysis 
must  be  mentioned  which  approximates  the  preceding  one  as  far 
as  method  is  concerned :  Raimundo  LIDA  — 345 —  "Los  cuentos 
de  Ruben  Dario.  Estudio  preliminar,"  in  Cuentos  completos  de 
Ruben  Dario,  (ed.)  Ernesto  Mejio  Sanchez  (Mexico:  Cultura 
economica,  1950),  VII-LXVII:  Dario's  prose  is  based  on  a  rich 
verbal  ornamentation  coming  from  a  vivid  imagination.     The 


60  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       346-348 

sentences  reach  the  borderline  of  biblical  versicles,  are  inter- 
spersed with  sound-plays,  offer  themes  with  variations,  sym- 
metries, "cierta  afectacion  casticista,"  calculated  elegancies, 
silences  and  abrupt  conclusions,  solemn  double  adjectives  and 
nominal  turns  with  abundant  appositions.  The  compounds, 
though  consisting  of  coordinated  rather  than  subordinated 
clauses,  are  brilliant  and  graceful,  show  traces  of  a  violent  dra- 
matization, a  type  of  humorous  enthymema,  Rabelaisian  enumera- 
tions, skillful  tensions  and  detentes,  elements  of  an  archaic 
preciosity,  and  leanings  to  gallicisms  culminating  in  cleverly 
used  gerunds.  The  work  of  another  pupil  of  Amado  Alonso's, 
Eleuterio  F.  TISCORNIA  — 346 —  concerns  La  lengua  de 
"Martin  Fierro"  (Buenos  Aires:  Instituto  de  Filologia,  1930). 
Senor  Tiscornia  offers  some  remarkable  chapters  on  style  (pp. 
187-283),  working  out  individual  constructions,  an  affective  but 
not  sensational  imagery,  and  the  use  of  nature  and  exterior  ob- 
jects for  expressing  abstract  ideas. 

A  third  pupil  of  Amado  Alonso's  chose  the  siglo  de  oro  for  his 
field  of  modern  style  analysis:  Angel  ROSENBLAT  —347— 
"La  lengua  de  Cervantes"  in  Cervantes,  published  by  the  Uni- 
versidad  Central,  Facultad  de  Filosofia  y  Letras  (Caracas,  1949) , 
47-129.  Rosenblat,  extolling  Cervantes  as  the  most  conscious 
representative  of  verbal  art,  and  condensing  what  was  said 
earlier  about  his  stylistic  achievements  (see  no.  643),  dwells  in 
a  very  penetrating  fashion  on  aspects  like  refranes,  dignificacion 
del  habla  popular,  el  ideal  de  la  discrecion,  antitesis,  juego  con 
el  lugar  comun,  juego  de  palabras,  juego  con  la  forma  gramatical, 
juego  con  pianos  distintos  del  lenguaje,  repeticion  deliberadia,, 
juego  con  la  elipsis.  The  truly  stylistic  distribution  of  such 
"figures  of  speech',  over  the  whole  Quijote  is  the  mainspring  of 
the  differentiation  of  the  607  men  and  62  women  who,  using 
9,362  words, 

hablan  como  locos  y  como  cuerdos,  como  hombres  del  pasado  y 
como  hombres  de  su  tiempo,  como  lo  que  son  y  como  lo  que  no 
son  ...  y  a  la  vez  como  truhanes,  notarios,  jueces,  comerciantes, 
nifios,  medicos  o  poetas   (p.  129). 

Under  a  more  direct  German  influence  are  the  studies  of  Guil- 
lermo  Kaul  and  Gustavo  Correa.  Guillermo  KAUL  — 348 — 
"El  estilo  de  Gabriel  Miro,"  CuaL,  IV  (1948),  97-138,  wants  to 
present  a  structural  picture  of  this  realistic  style  enhanced  by 


349-354  Spain  and  Portugal  61 

oriental  imagery  which,  however,  is  not  poetical;  he  stresses 
anacolutha,  the  attributive  use  of  the  gerund  and  quite  elaborate 
clausulae,  mostly  the  cursus  velox  (Kaul  speaks  only  of  "ende- 
casilabos").  His  unconvincing  comparisons  with  Giono,  Rilke 
and  Neruda  are  intended  to  establish  various  meanings  for  the 
same  modern  impressionistic-expressionistic  style  elements  in 
the  different  authors  (see  no.  354) .  Gustavo  CORREA  — 349 — 
"Estudios  estilisticos  sobre  Federigo  Garcia  Lorca,"  RI, 
XXXV  (1949),  no.  107,  185-196,  is  a  sketchy  interpretation 
of  the  Romance  Sonambulo  stressing  the  "symphony  in  green" 
with  the  leitmotif  "Verde  que  te  quiero  verde,"  reminiscent  of 
Don  Juan  Ramon  Jimenez'  estribillo  "Verde  verderol"  and  Igna- 
cio  Zuluoga's  painting  Los  Penitentes.  Gustavo  CORREA 
— 350 —  "Yerma.  Estudios  estilisticos  sobre  la  obra  de  Federico 
Garcia  Lorca,"  RI,  XXXV  (1949),  no.  109,  11-63,  sweepingly 
compares  this  drama  of  honor  and  frustration  with  similar  bio- 
logical-moral dramas  such  as  Lope's  Bodas  de  sangre,  Jacinto 
Benavente's  La  Malquerida  and  Gabriele  d'Annunzio's  La  figlia 
di  Jorio,  with  the  conclusion  that  Lorca's  imagery,  rooted  in 
essential  symbols  for  strength  (toro)  and  biological  beauty  (flor, 
drbol,  luz,  sol),  keeps  his  drama  closer  than  all  the  others  to 
popular,  biblical,  cosmic  and  mythic  depth. 

The  stylistic  studies  in  Spanish  topics  coming  from  other 
countries  do  not  reveal  a  particular  method  or  school.  F.  WEIS- 
SER  — 351 —  "Sprachliche  Kunstmittel  des  Erzpriesters  von 
Hita,,,  VKR,  VII  (1934),  164-243,  and  281-348,  and  Mother 
Francis  de  Sales  McGARRY  — 352 —  The  Allegorical  and 
Metaphorical  Language  in  the  Autos  Sacramentales  of  Calderon, 
Diss.,  Catholic  University,  Washington,  D.  C,  1937,  simply  list 
stylistic  traits.  The  more  recent  chapter  "Stilmittel  des  Alfonso 
Martinez,"  (pp.  500-522)  in  Erich  von  RICHTHOFEN  —353— 
"Alfonso  Martinez  de  Toledo,  'Arcipreste  de  Talavera'  und  sein 
Corbacho,  ein  kastilisches  Prosawerk  des  15.  Jahrhunderts," 
ZRP,  LXI  (1941),  417-537,  gives  more  modern,  detailed  inter- 
pretations, e.g.  the  many  stylistic  meanings  of  the  interjection 
lay! 

The  laudable  enthusiasm  for  stylistics  in  all  of  the  Espanas 
was  bound  to  produce  all  kinds  of  subjective  approaches,  few  of 
which  are  of  real  value. 

Adolfo  Lizon  GADEA  — 354 —  "Lexico  y  estilo  en  Gabriel 
Miro,"  CLC,  I   (1942),  229-244,  proves  that  in  the  choice  of 


62  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors        355-362 

words,  detours  and  vagueness,  the  poet's  theoretical  program 
"decir  las  cosas  por  insinuation"  aptly  materializes.  Miro  thus 
appears  as  the  most  elegant  of  modern  Spanish  writers  after 
Unamuno  and  Machado,  writing  a  properly  lyrical  prose.  Julia 
Cordova  INFANTE  — 355 —  "Estudio  linguistico  de  la  poesia  de 
Luis  Cernuda,,,  A,  I  (1945),  100-111,  after  having  done  some 
clever  motif  tabulation,  comes  to  rather  poor  stylistic  results: 
"The  verb  is  transparent  and  precise.  .  .  .  The  present  tense  pre- 
vails. The  gerund  is  used  frequently. "  The  adjective  is  of  se- 
mantic wealth  and  novelty.  The  noun  contains  the  essence  of 
the  typically  Spanish  lyricism  of  this  poet. 

M.  MUNOZ  CORTeS  —356—  "Sobre  el  estilo  de  Quevedo," 
Mediterrdneo  (Valencia),  IV  (1946),  nos.  13-15,  108-142,  com- 
prehends an  analysis  of  the  romance  Visita  de  Alejandro  a  Di- 
ogenes cinico.  This  study  is  preceded  by  E.  JULf  A  MARTINEZ 
— 357 —  "Una  nota  sobre  cuestiones  estilisticas  en  las  obras  de 
Quevedo,"  ib.,  100-107.  A  striking  example  of  good  stylistic 
analysis  done  by  an  untrained  virtuoso  is  Jose  FERRER  — 358 — 
"Berceo :  'Milagros  de  Nuestra  Senora.'  Aspectos  de  su  estilo," 
H,  XXXIII  (1950),  46-50.  Quoting  for  the  sake  of  rapproche- 
ments the  most  unexpected  texts  of  Garcia  Lorca,  Luis  de  Leon 
and  Valle  Inclan,  Ferrer  says  excellent  things  about  Berceo's 
metaphors,  diminutives,  measure,  epithets  and  musicality.  Fran- 
cisco L6PEZ  ESTRADA  —359—  "La  retorica  en  las  'Genera- 
ciones  y  semblanzas'  de  Fernan  Perez  de  Guzman,"  RFE,  XXX 
(1946),  310-352,  analyzes  very  pertinently  the  descriptions  of 
persons  and  other  devices  in  this  work  as  based  upon  fixed  me- 
dieval formulas  and  patterns.  It  is  precisely  thus  that  the  indi- 
vidual features  of  Perez  de  Guzman  become  apparent.  J.  M. 
BLECUA  —360—  "El  estilo  de  'El  Criticon'  de  Gracian,"  AFA, 
series  B,  I  (1945),  7-32,  bases  his  study  on  previous  work  of 
Romera-Navarro  and  is  primarily  concerned  with  generalities 
(baroque  melancholia,  conceptismo,  allegory,  formation  of  real- 
ity, agudeza,  brevity,  intensity).  The  author  himself  calls  his 
approach,  as  soon  as  it  becomes  detailed,  an  drida  y  molesta  enu- 
meration de  artificios  estilisticos  (p.  30).  Another  style  analysis 
is  better  performed,  though  in  a  sketchy  way  and  as  a  by-prod- 
uct, by  Angel  VALBUENA  PRAT  —361—  "Elementos  de  estilo 
de  Calderon,"  in  his  book  Calderon  (Barcelona:  Juventud,  1941), 
32-46.    This  study  is  based  on  an  earlier  one  — 362- —  "Sobre  el 


363-369  Spain  and  Portugal  63 

tono  menor  y  el  estilo  en  la  escuela  de  Calderon,"  HRL,  I  (1936) , 
627-649. 

The  first  Venezuelan  modernistic  prose  writer  after  Ruben 
Dario  was  singled  out  for  a  style  study  by  Lowell  DUNHAM 
— 363 —  Manuel  Diaz  Rodriguez,  maestro  del  estilo  (Caracas: 
Boletin  de  la  Academia  Venezolana,  1949).  The  literary  style 
of  a  political  writer  attracted  Cecilia  H.  DE  MENDOZA  —364— 
El  estilo  literario  de  Bolivar  (Bogota:  Cromos,  1945),  although 
she  mixes  her  style  concept  with  problems  of  content  and  mean- 
ing, an  approach  which  makes  her  few  results  debatable. 

Sound  and  strict  methods  reappear  with  French  scholars 
working  on  Spanish  subjects.  Serge  DENIS  — 365 —  La  langue 
de  J.  R.  de  Alar  con  (Paris :  Droz,  1943) ,  discovers  how  the  Mexi- 
can environment,  the  predilection  for  Gongora  and  the  rhetorical 
art  of  Cicero  and  Quintilian  influenced  Alarcon  so  that  he  wrote 
a  more  classical  style  than  Lope  and  his  colorful  school,  although 
he  follows  Lope  in  the  dramatic  pattern.  Inasmuch  as  the 
French  are  particularly  strong  in  stylistic  vocabulary  studies, 
L.  SALEMBIEN  —366—  "Le  vocabulaire  de  Lope  de  Vega," 
BH,  XXXIV  (1932),  97-125;  289-310;  XXXV  (1933),  51-69; 
368-391,  makes  statements  which  go  to  the  very  core  of  Lope's 
art:  the  religious  terms  in  love  poetry  lose  their  character  of 
parody  and  exaggeration,  the  zoological  and  botanical  ones  keep 
to  a  line  of  beauty  and  dignity,  the  psychological  ones  are  intro- 
duced to  reveal  unheard-of  attitudes  of  the  soul  (discreto  con 
arrogancia).  Georges  CIROT  — 367 —  "Le  style  de  Velez  de 
Guevara,"  BH,  XLIV  (1942),  175-180,  aims  at  comparative  styl- 
istics,  as  the  sequence  to  this  article  (no.  225)  proves.  Pro- 
visionally he  considers  the  style  of  El  diablo  cojuelo  an  anthology 
of  agudezas  and  the  "chef-d'oeuvre  du  Baroque."  A  somewhat 
different  opinion  is  held  by  M.  MtNOZ  CORTES  —368—  "As- 
pectos  estilisticos  de  Velez  de  Guevara  en  su  'Diablo  cojuelo'," 
RFE,  XXVII  (1943),  48-76.  He  stresses  originality  in  word- 
play, metaphors  and  images,  but  considers  the  author  baroque  on- 
ly insofar  as  he  is  an  escapist  from  the  immediate  reality  into 
playful  forms  on  the  basis  of  a  sentiment  of  fear  and  frustration. 
Jean  BARUZI  — 369 —  "Introduccion  al  estudio  del  lenguaje 
mistico,"  BAL,  X  (1942),  7-30,  shows  that  the  symbols  of  Saint 
John  of  the  Cross  are  "spiritual  realities"  to  him,  so  that  if  he 
prays  to  the  Noche  oscura,  this  symbol  certainly  means,  in  the 
respective  poetical  passage,   God   Himself,   as   can  be  proved 


64  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       370-376 

from  the  Saint's  prose  commentary.  Baruzi's  far-reaching  con- 
clusions are  not  always  convincing.  But  the  important  thing  is 
that  he  reaches  the  same  distinction  between  lyrical  and  scien- 
tific language  (of  which  the  mystical  and  theological  would  be 
only  one  example)  as  did  on  a  larger  basis  Pius  Servien  COCU- 
LESCO  in  — 370 —  Principes  d'esthetique.  Problemes  d'art  et 
langages  des  sciences  (Paris:  Boivin,  1935). 

The  combination  of  grammatical  and  artistic  concerns  comes 
to  the  fore  also  in  a  German  dissertation  on  a  Spanish  subject: 
Rolf  OLBRICH  — 371 —  "Syntaktisch-stilistische  Studien  uber 
Benito  Perez  Galdos,"  HSVKR,  XXVI  (1937).  Olbrich  proves 
that  Galdos'  repetition  of  words  and  change  of  tenses  in  the  nar- 
ration represents  the  author's  empathy  into  the  familiar:  his 
crude  nominal  style  in  which  a  word  stands  for  a  sentence  (Igual- 
dad,  polos  de  telegrafo,  cabras,  charcos,  matorrales,  tierra  gris) , 
and  his  use  of  introductory  impressionistic  verbs  (vi,  veiase, 
oianse,  el  se  puso  a  admirar,  alii  eran)  are  meant  as  gestures 
of  an  ocular  witness  to  the  incidents  related. 

A  Portuguese  beginning  is  Afranio  PEIXOTO  — 372 —  "A 
lingua  Camoes,"  in  Ensaios  Camonianos  (Coimbra,  1932),  309- 
341,  where  Camoes'  words  of  preference,  his  individual  seman- 
tics, and  his  adaptation  of  classical  locutions  are  presented,  as 
condensed  in  essay  form  by  F.  Reb£lo  GONQALVES  —373— 
Camoes,  Mestre  da  lingua,  Disertacoes  Camonianas  (Sao  Paolo, 
1937). 

A  series  of  Portuguese  articles  which  distinguish  the  lan- 
guage of  an  individual  author  from  common  language  com- 
prises as  an  illuminating  item  Vaco  BOTELHO  DE  AMARAL 
— 374 —  "Linguagem  de  povo.  Linguagem  dos  nossos  escritores. 
Eca  de  Queiros,"  RPo,  Serie  A,  I  (1942-43),  24-26;  71-74;  178- 
187.  An  attempt  at  drawing  the  general  reader's  interest  to  a 
euphonic-metaphorical  style  is  A.  DE  PADUA  — 375 —  A  mar- 
gem  do  estilo  de  Cruz  e  Sousa  (Rio  de  Janeiro:  Col.  Brasileira 
de  divulgacao,  1946).  Vitorino  NEM3SIO  —376—  "Algums 
aspectos  da  prosa  medieval  principalmente  atraves  da  Primeira 
parte  da  Cronica  de  D.  Joao  I  de  Fernao  Lopes,"  01,  80  (1930), 
469-497,  637-654;  81  (1931),  135-146;  82  (1931),  481-498,  565- 
575,  must  be  considered  a  very  rich  and  important  study.  Ne- 
mesio  uses  Fernao  Lopes'  own  program  of  "making  well-ar- 
ranged stories  in  clear  prose"  to  demonstrate  his  attempts  at 
picturesqueness  and  rhythm,  both  of  course  in  a  relative  sense, 


377-383  Italian  Contributions  65 

as  explained  in  an  historical  introduction  opposing  medieval 
prose  in  the  vernacular  to  poetry.  Fernao  Lopes  is  able  to  tell 
a  story  by  avoiding  repetition,  by  arousing  suspense  in  inter- 
rupting an  action  "em  fieri"  (p.  640) ,  and  by  condensation  ("syn- 
copes"). He  gives  to  his  "cuadros"  (p.  654)  the  character  of 
dialogue  and  even  theatre  (p.  136).  Long  considerations  ac- 
company the  study  of  Fernao  Lope's  metaphors.  About  the 
literary  portrait  is  said:  "A  crisalida  do  retrato  para  abrir  as 
asas,  quasi  borboleta  em  Fernao  Lopes"  (p.  493).  Aurelio 
DUARDE  DE  HOLANDA  FERREIRA  —377—  "Linguagem  e 
Estilo  de  Machado  de  Assis,"  Revista  do  Brasil,  II  (1939,  July), 
54-70;  (August),  17-34,  bases  some  general  statements  about 
the  great  pessimistic-humorous  modern  Brazilian  poet  on  a  scant 
series  of  arbitrarily  chosen  examples.  Other  individual  style 
studies  of  this  kind  are  Claudio  BASTO  —378 —  A  linguagem  de 
Camilo  (Porto,  1927)  and  — 379—  A  Linguagem  de  Fialho 
(Porto,  1940). 

F.    Italian  Contributions  from  Bertoni  to  Falqui  and  Devoto 

If  it  is  true  that  the  analysis,  even  incomplete,  by  selective 
centripetal  features  for  the  purpose  of  style  characterization 
can  be  more  helpful  than  the  complete  accumulation  of  arbitrary 
style-features  which  remain  unintelligible  in  their  splendid  iso- 
lation, the  Italian  school  has  the  merit  of  representing  precisely 
this  trend  in  style  investigation.  The  typical  student  of  literary 
language  characterization  on  a  selective  basis  was  Giulio  Ber- 
toni. For  a  comprehensive  view  on  his  stylistic  approach  which 
seems  semi-Crocean  one  must  read  Gandolfo  IRAGGI  — 380 — 
"Note  e  considerazioni  sulla  trilogia  di  G.  Bertoni,"  AR,  XXV 
(1941),  207-226.  Here  are  some  of  Giulio  BERTONTs  best 
studies  in  this  field :  — 381—  "Linguaggio  e  lingua  dei  trovatori 
provenzali,"  in  Lingua  e  Cultura  (Firenze:  Olschki,  1939),  101- 
125,  which  tries  to  differentiate  the  individual  troubadours  from 
their  common  treasury  of  special  words  and  metaphors,  and 
— 382 —  "La  lingua  di  Dante,"  in  Lingua  e  Poesia  (Firenze: 
Olschki,  1937),  27-50,  stressing  his  lyrical  and  picturesque  coin- 
ages :  "il  disiato  riso,"  "la  vendetta  allegre,"  "1'aria  impregnata 
di  verde  e  di  fiori." 

One    of    Bertoni's    followers,    LuiGl    MALAGOLI    —383— 
Linguaggio  e  poesia  nella  Divina  Commedia  (Genova:  Briano, 


66  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors        384-391 

1949),  working  out  more  details,  discovers  how  Dante  achieves  a 
double  result  by  means  of  his  particular  use  of  gerunds,  rhythms 
and  word  order.  First  he  produces  a  strong  frontal  and  impres- 
sionistic visualization;  secondly,  he  creates  a  magic  world  by 
splitting  the  real  world  of  vague  contour  into  wishful  fragments, 
which  in  turn  are  linked  together  by  an  almost  invisible  archi- 
tectural thread.  Frontality  can  be  stressed  by  the  least  visible 
means,  such  as  lento-rhyihm  or  diacrisis  in  dealing  with  one 
single  gerundive  form;  emotion  is  created  by  such  paradoxical 
expressions  as  ombre  con  manti  (Purg.  XIII,  47) .  The  progress 
of  style  from  cantica  to  cantica  is  the  progress  of  verbal  drama- 
tization to  verbal  lyricism  and  finally  to  verbal  music. 

BERTONI  studies  with  his  sampling  approach  also  — 384 — 
"La  lingua  di  Giovanni  Berchet,"  in  Lingua  e  Cultura  (no.  381), 
177-188,  its  barbarisms,  archaisms,  conventionalisms  and  shock- 
ing but  typical  locutions ;  and  — 385 —  "La  lingua  del  Carducci," 
ib.,  189-217,  who  with  the  phraseology  of  Dante  and  Petrarch  and 
the  realism  of  the  people,  renovates  Horace's  antiqua  ilex  and 
Ovid's  nigra  ilex.  Bertoni  explored  the  lingua  and  linguaggio 
of  many  other  authors  as  well,  in  his  volume  — 386 — i  Lingua  e 
Pensiero  (Firenze:  Olschki,  1932).  The  outstanding  contribu- 
tion in  Bertoni's  volume  — 387 —  Lingua  e  Cultura  is  "II  linguag- 
gio mistico  di  Santa  Caterina  da  Siena"  (pp.  85-109).  The 
imaginative  language  of  this  Saint,  which  once  was  called  by 
Friedrich  Schurr  "Baroque  of  the  Trecento,"  comes  to  the  fore 
in  expressions  for  Christ  like  Vagnello  svenato,  smiroldato ;  una 
mwnavigliosa  rosa  che  da  il  suo  frutto  sulla  croce ;  or  in  expres- 
sions for  the  mystical  union,  such  as  annegare,  bagnare,  saziare, 
vestire,  ribattezzare,  inebbriare  Vanima  nel  sangue  di  Cristo^ 
Another  attempt  at  grasping  the  style  of  Santa  Caterina  is  N. 
FESTA  — 388 —  La  lingua  e  lo  stile  nelV epistolario  di  S.  Caterina 
(Siena:  Studi  Cateriniani,  No.  9,  Suppl.,  1938). 

The  unsurpassed  investigator  of  the  style  of  Italian  scientific 
prose  is  Leonardo  OLSCHKI.  His  masterly  analysis  of  the 
style  of  Leonardo  da  Vinci  in  his  — -389 —  Geschichte  der  neu* 
sprachlichen  wissenschaftlichen  Literatur  (Heidelberg,  Halle-, 
Leipzig,  1918-27),  3  vols.,  can  be  measured  by  the  attempts  of 
his  negligible  successors,  G.  FLORES  — 390 —  "La  prosa  di 
Leonardo,"  Leo  (1940),  1-9,  and  F.  T.  ROFFARE  —391—  "Delia 
prosa  di  Leonardo  da  Vinci  e  del  suo  colorito  poetico,"  AV 
(1940),  88-92.     OLSCHKFs  analysis,  in  the  same  work   (no. 


392-397  Italian  Contributions  67 

389),  of  the  style  of  — 392 —  Galileo,  and  the  explanation  of  Lat- 
in's being  superseded  as  a  scientific  language  by  the  much  more 
articulate  vernacular,  reaches  perfection  (II,  167  ff.).  E.  FAL~ 
QUI  —393—  "Notizia  sulla  prosa  di  Galileo,"  ICS,  XXV  (1942), 
189,  qualifies  this  prose  as  logical,  perspicuous,  ironical,  dialec- 
tical and  imaginative,  but  he  ignores  his  greater  predecessor.  It 
is  regrettable  that  Raffaele  SPONGANO  — 394 —  "La  prosa  di 
Galileo,"  in  his  La  prosa  di  Galileo  e  altri  scritti  (Messina: 
D'Anna,  1949),  93-115,  bases  his  statements  on  U.  Bosco,  "Gali- 
leo scrittore,"  Cu,  XI  (January-March,  1932),  117  ff.,  rather 
than  on  the  fundamental  insights  of  Olschki  (no.  392) .  Spon- 
gano  finds  that  Galileo's  style  is  the  unique  personal  style  at  a 
moment  when  the  secentismo  comes  into  being.  It  is  condi- 
tioned by  Galileo's  love  for  the  poets,  whom  he  prefers  to  prose 
writers,  except  for  Seneca  whom  he  knows  by  heart  and  by  whose 
style  he  is  nourished. 

After  Bertoni  and  Olschki  it  is  Mario  Fubini,  who  in  his 
critical  work  of  very  high  level,  comes  closest  to  a  style  investi- 
gator. Mario  FUBINI  — 395 —  "L'arte  di  Masuccio  Salerni- 
tano,"  in  his  Studi  sulla  letter atura  del  Rinascimento  (Firenze: 
Sansoni,  1947),  41-61,  compares  the  extreme,  decorative  and 
contrasting  means  of  expression  of  this  author  with  the  smooth, 
concise,  measured  forms  of  his  source,  the  Decamerone.  Mario 
Fubini  — 396 —  Stile  e  umanita  di  Giambattista  Vico  (Bari: 
Laterza,  1946)  which  supersedes  his  previous  study  — 397 —  "La 
lingua  del  Vico,"  CiM,  XIV  (1942),  206-50,  is  based  on  Marou- 
zeau's  (p.  127)  and  on  Spitzer's  style  theory  (p.  149).  Fubini 
analyzes  in  a  dense  chapter  (pp.  97-158)  Vico's  individual  lan- 
guage, characterized  by  a  particular  richness  in  synonyms,  the 
variatio  being  the  key  (spia)  to  all  the  other  figures  of  speech 
since  it  is  said  to  reveal  the  author's  passionalita.  Here  Fubini's 
method  comes  extremely  close  to  Spitzer's.  Vico's  seman- 
tics links  words  which  have  developed  differently  within  the 
word  family  (fermo:  infermo) .  Adverbs  produce  the  whole 
structure  and  distinctions  of  a  sentence;  they  act  as  pillars. 
Vico,  furthermore,  for  sake  of  euphony  adds  the  sonorous  o  to 
the  gerund,  with  the  daring  syntactical  implication  of  a  plural 
(essendono)  reminiscent  of  the  Portuguese  infinitivo  pessoal. 
He  heaps  up  epithets  and  superlatives,  savory  popular  locutions 
in  connection  with  abstract  thought,  and  ventures  the  most 
audacious  imitations  of  Latin  constructions.     Thus  Fubini  has 


68  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       398-404 

underlined  the  character  of  a  language  which  reflects  the  at- 
tempt at  a  reconciliation  of  Plato  and  Epicurus  as  stated  by 
Lorenzo  GIUSSO  — 398 —  La  filosofia  di  G.  B.  Vico  e  Veta  barocca 
(Roma:  Parella,  1943). 

V.  CI  AN  — 399 —  La  lingua  di  Baldassarre  Castiglione  (Fi- 
renze:  Sansoni,  1942),  is  a  competent  analysis  of  this  human- 
ist's selective  writing;  and  the  exemplifications  reach  from 
Latinisms  and  Toscanisms  to  examples  of  various  redactions  of 
whole  parts  of  the  Cortegiano.  Here  we  must  call  to  mind  that 
the  whole  Italian  school,  not  only  since  Bertoni  but  since  De 
Sanctis,  knows  that  everybody  concerned  with  literary  art  is 
doing  language  studies.  This  point  is  seen  also  from  the  theo- 
retical connection  between  Italian  literary  studies  and  the  ideas 
of  Benedetto  Croce.  A  strong  individuality  as  a  style  critic  is 
revealed  by  the  practical  work  of  Carlo  CORDIe.  In  his  — 400 — 
"II  linguaggio  macheronico  e  Tarte  del  Baldus,"  AR,  XXI  (1937) , 
1-79,  Cordie  shows  why  the  mixture  of  popular  and  highly  hu- 
manistic material  is  bound  to  produce  fun.  It  does  so  by  dis- 
torting Italian  proverbs  to  give  them  a  quasi-Latin  form,  by 
mock  quotations  from  serious  authors  and  even  the  gospel,  by 
arrogant  allusions  at  the  most  unexpected  moment  (Iuppiter 
est  etenim  cunctorum  papa  deorum) ,  and  by  plastic  linguistic 
renderings  of  critical  thought.  Cordie's  study  is  definitely  su- 
perior to  the  previous  essay  on  Macaronic  style  by  Sigmar  GUT- 
KIND  —401—  "Die  Sprache  des  Folengo,"  AR,  VI  (1923),  425- 
455. 

Since  in  other  investigations  of  styles  in  the  Italian  field  no 
particular  theoretical  pattern  is  visible,  they  will  be  listed  in 
chronological  sequence  according  to  their  aims.  FRANCESCO 
MICHELINI  — 402 —  La  prosa  di  F.  Guicciardini  (Savigliano, 
1926),  underscores  the  popular  speech  elements  and  the  ana- 
colutha  in  this  prose.  Tristano  BOLELLI  — 403 —  "Appunti 
sulla  lingua  di  Leonardo,"  CN,  I  (1941),  67-70,  is  a  clever  con- 
densation of  the  stylistic  propensities  of  Leonardo  according  to 
his  aims  toward  clarity.  To  this  purpose  he  subdued  word  crea- 
tion, anacoluthon,  lively  dialogue,  polysyndeton,  accusative  with 
infinitive  constructions,  and  the  descriptive  period.  "Questa 
liberta,  il  restare  al  di  f  uori  e  al  di  sopra  della  sintassi,  costituisce 
la  fondamentale  caratteristica  della  prosa  leonardesca"  (p.  69) . 
Roberto  B ATTAGLIA  — 404—  "Dalla  lingua  dell'  Amadigi  a 
quella  della  Gerusalemme,"  CN,  I   (1941),  94-115,  proves  that 


405-412  Italian  Contributions  69 

the  descriptive-rational  and  the  evocative-lyrical  elements  are 
separated  in  Bernardo  Tasso,  but  united  in  Torquato  Tasso 
whose  Ariosto  imitation,  with  proper  means,  gives  him  the  tech- 
nical superiority  over  his  father.  The  style  of  Annibale  Caro 
found  a  short  and  fine  appreciation  in  V.  M.  VILLA  —405 — 
SUlismo  di  Annibal  Caro  (Marcerata:  Affede,  1936).  Good 
remarks  on  the  style  of  Foscolo,  Monti,  Leopardi,  D'Annunzio, 
Panzini  are  scattered  over  the  small  volume  of  Cesare  ANGE- 
LINI  — 406 —  Notizie  di  poeti  (Firenze:  Mounier,  1942).  The 
same  holds  true  for  the  essays  of  Attilio  MOMIGLIANO 
— 407 —  Introduzione  ai  poeti  (Tumminelli,  1946)  where  perti- 
nent remarks  concern  style,  motives  and  general  tendencies  in 
Petrarch,  Poliziano,  Ariosto,  Tasso,  Alfieri,  Foscolo,  Carlo  Porta, 
Leopardi,   Berchet,   Belli,   Carducci. 

Mario  FUBINI  — 408 —  "Osservazioni  sul  lessico  e  sulla 
metrica  del  Tasso,"  T,  III  (1944),  265-278;  IV  (1945),  54-64, 
has  to  be  credited  for  combining  Tasso's  lexicon  of  particularly 
long  and  well-sounding  words  with  problems  of  metrics,  particu- 
larly the  enjambement,  in  order  to  characterize  Tasso's  style  by 
such  elements  as  are  still  visible  in  Leopardi's  imitation.  A 
study  of  the  style  of  Foscolo  and  Sterne  on  a  comparative  basis, 
in  the  sense  that  Foscolo  changes  the  sentimental  humor  and 
feeling  of  Sterne  into  a  humorous  sentimentality  of  his  own, 
has  been  offered  by  Claudio  VARESE  — 409 —  Linguaggio 
Sterniano  e  linguaggio  Foscoliano  (Firenze:  Sansoni,  1947).  The 
syntactic  implications  of  this  problem  concern  Foscolo's  attempt 
to  incorporate  Sterne's  English  syntactic  possibilities  into  his 
own  Italian  method  by 

adoperando  quelle  forme  di  gerundio  e  di  proposizioni  piu  strette 
che  vuole  Pindole  piu  sintetica  della  lingua  italiana,  nonche  la 
concettosita  foscoliana   (p.  34-35). 

Alfieri's  style  has  been  the  subject  of  Giuseppe  FERRERO 
in  the  poor  chapter  — 410 —  "Lingua  e  poesia  nelle  tragedie  delF 
Alfieri,"  of  his  Alfieri  (Torino:  Chiantore,  1945),  403-460,  as 
well  as  that  of  Vittore  BRANCA  — 411 —  Alfieri  e  la  ricerca 
dello  stile  (Firenze:  Le  Monnier,  1948).  M.  PUPPO  — 412 — 
"Stile  di  E.  Scarfoglio,"  RSL,  II  (1934),  437-450,  has  analyzed 
in  a  masterly  way  the  rhythmical-colorful  language  of  this 
unique  exotic  writer,  imitating  Carducci  and  D'Annunzio. 

A  definite  feature  of  style  studies  on  Italian  subjects  is  still  the 


70  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       413-421 

concentration  on  the  language  of  popular  and  political  writers. 
Giuseppe  COCCHIARA  — 413 —  II  linguaggio  della  poesia  popo- 
lare  (Palermo:  Palumbo,  1942),  opposes  the  traditional  dramatic 
character  of  genuine,  popular  poetry  to  the  epic  or  lyrical  char- 
acter of  its  artificial  imitations.  The  five  essays  dealing  also 
with  the  work  of  Meli  and  Capuana  do  not  stress  enough  the 
stylistic  problems  of  Meli,  as  does  Salvatore  SANTANGELO 
— 414 —  La  lingua  di  Giovanni  Meli  (Palermo:  Palumbo,  1941), 
and  also  in  Studi  su  Giovanni  Meli  nel  II.  Centenario  della  sua  nas- 
cita  1740-1940  (Palermo:  Palumbo,  1942),  pp.  81-183.  Santan- 
gelo  makes  clear  that  Meli  first  created  a  poetic  language  by  a 
wise  mixture  of  the  Sicilian  dialect  with  fusible  elements  of  the 
literary  Tuscan,  and  that  he  then  used  this  instrument  very 
flexibly  for  different  purposes.  In  landscapes  "la  descrizione  e 
densa  di  particolari  sensibili;  gli  elementi  sembrano  avere  una 
loro  sinistra  personality,  le  parole  sono  aspre  ed  imitative"  (p. 
41)  ;  in  love  poems  "il  linguaggio  poetico  a  quello  di  una  speciale 
galanteria  fatta  di  sensualita  contenuta,  di  circospetta  malizia, 
di  carezze  verbali :  abbonda  di  vezzeggiatoi ;  .  .  .  di  doppi  sensi" 
(p.  65).  Another  study  of  an  Italian  dialect  used  for  literary 
purposes  was  done  under  the  direction  of  a  first-class  connois- 
seur of  the  Neapolitan,  Gerhard  Rohlfs,  namely  Liselotte 
HaGE  — 415 —  Lo  cunto  de  li  cunti  di  Giambattista  Basile.  Eine 
Stilstudie,  Diss.  Tubingen,  1934.  Although  the  figures  of  speech 
are  presented  in  a  rather  old-fashioned  way,  they  have  clever 
and  clarifying  subdivisions  with  an  overall  tendency  of  charac- 
terizing the  fairy-tale  style  of  the  Pentamerone  as  baroque. 

Politically  inspired  studies  on  the  demagogic-rhetorical  lan- 
guage of  Mussolini  are  H.  ELLWANGER  — 416 —  Studien  zur 
Sprache  Benito  Mussolinis,  Diss.  Heidelberg,  1939;  Lorenzo 
BIANCIII  — 417 —  Mussolini,  orator e  e  scrittore  (Bologna, 
1937)  ;  G.  ARDAN  — 418 —  Ueloquenza  Mussoliniana  (Milano, 
1929)  ;  L.  TONELLI  —419—  "Lo  stile  di  Mussolini,"  RIt, 
XXXVI  (1934),  99-111,  who  compares  its  violent,  energetic 
character  to  the  style  of  Machiavelli  and  Carducci ;  G.  VILLANI 
_420—  "Stile  di  Mussolini/'  Convf  IX  (1937),  601-18,  who  sup- 
plies further  bibliography.  Among  all  these  lucubrations  there 
is  one,  Eugenio  ADAMI  — 421 —  La  lingua  di  Mussolini  (Mo- 
dena,  1939) ,  which  takes  care  of  Mussolini's  verbal  art  as  a  unity 
just  by  quoting  selected  passages  that  reveal  his  qualities 
through  his  style:  sense  of  reality,  polemical  irony,  etc. 


422-425  The  Swiss  School  71 

G.     The  Swiss  School  around  Th.  Spoerri 

Closely  related  to  the  Italian  tendencies  in  style  investigation 
are  the  style  studies  coming  from  Switzerland.  The  stress  on 
the  artistic  element,  the  "primaute  de  Partistique,"  in  character- 
ization of  styles  in  a  half  analytical  and  half  synthetical  manner 
is  the  particular  concern  of  the  Zurich  school  of  Theophil  iSpoer- 
ri.  Ke  is  the  "rhythmical"  and  "ideological"  style  investiga- 
tor, who  pierces  to  ideology  through  structure,  not  to  the  psyche 
of  the  author  through  psychoanalysis.  The  dissertations  sug- 
gested by  him  before  he  became  more  specific  used  to  bear  the 
most  inconspicuous  and  almost  standardized  title :  "Essay  on  the 
style  of  X."  But  what  is  found  out  by  such  an  essay  is  always 
worth  while,  because  fundamental  artistic  features  in  language 
reveal  to  the  analyst  at  the  same  time  the  most  essential  struc- 
tural implications.  Thus  Lotte  KAUPP  — 422 —  Versuch  ilber 
den  Stil  Leon  Bloys,  Diss.  Zurich,  1937,  was  first  startled  by 
Bloy's  expressions  "faire  crouler  les  etoiles,"  "decrocher  les 
luminaires  du  firmament,"  etc.  Thus  she  got  an  insight  into 
the  feeling  of  the  infinity  of  space  as  a  paramount  implication 
in  the  works  of  the  "pelerin  de  l'absolu."  Then  she  was  im- 
pressed by  expressions  like :  "des  nuits  qui  paraissent  avoir  trois 
cent  soixante  heures,"  or  "la  Chartreuse  contemporaine  des  Cata- 
combes,"  and  found  the  key  to  Bloy's  vital  concept  of  Eternity. 
Incompleteness  in  secondary  matters,  necessarily  inherent  in 
such  style  essays,  could  be  easily  supplemented  by  less  striking 
details  of  Bloy's  style  from  the  study  of  SISTER  M.  ROSALIE 
BRADY  — 423 —  Thought  and  Style  in  the  Works  of  Leon  Bloy, 
Diss.,  Catholic  Univ.,  Washington,  D.  C,  1945. 

The  Zurich  dissertations  sometimes  indicate  even  in  their  ti- 
tles the  extension  of  the  style  problem  to  thought  and  philosophy, 
as  is  the  case  with  Lisa  WEHRLI  — 424 —  Welt,  Mensch  and  Stil 
im  Werke  Georges  Duhamels,  Diss.  Zurich  (Wadenswil:  Vil- 
liger,  1937)  (see  no.  600).  The  study  of  Margrit  WANNER 
— 425 —  Versuch  ilber  den  Stil  Maurice  de  Guerins,  Diss.  Zurich, 
1937,  is  profound  and  philosophical  in  the  best  sense.  Miss 
Wanner  goes  to  the  very  core  of  the  author's  sentiments  in  order 
to  derive  the  predominance  of  the  objective  over  the  subjective. 
Attempts  at  effacing  the  types  of  words  in  their  grammatical 
differentiation  seem  indicative  of  an  illusionary  solution  of  the 
problem  of  losing  or  keeping  one's  personality.  In  Marta  WEID- 


72  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       426-431 

MANN  — 426 —  Versuch  iiber  den  Stil  Edouard  Rods,  Diss. 
Zurich,  1942,  Rod's  style  is  explained  as  the  expression  of  uncer- 
tainty. Otherwise  a  protestant  bourgeois  of  French  Switzer- 
land would  not  use  the  Parisian  salon  style  to  describe  nature 
phenomena,  in  so  absurd  a  passage  as  the  following :  "La  formi- 
dable pyramide  formee  de  blocs  enormes,  ciseles  par  de  minu- 
tieux  artistes"  (p.  92).  Marta  Weidmann  underscores  also  the 
stylistic  effects  of  changing  illumination  and  a  particular  type  of 
imagery  as  an  expression  of  this  incertitude. 

Berta  WICKE  — 427 —  Stilprobleme  bei  Stendhal,  Diss. 
Zurich,  1936,  was  not  able  to  disentangle  all  the  difficult  style 
problems  in  Stendhal;  but  M.  WANDRUSZKA  —428—  "Zum 
Stil  Stendhals,"  ZFS,  LII  (1939),  429-436,  certainly  has  not 
added  very  much  either  by  making  him  a  plagiarist  of  Carpani 
and  evaluating  his  unique  expressions  more  from  the  viewpoint 
of  a  censor  than  from  that  of  an  analyst.  Equally  incompetent 
is  Myron  I.  BARKER  — 429 —  Stendhal's  Novels.  A  Study  in 
Style  (Louisville,  Kentucky,  1936).  Barker  has  no  stylistic 
training.  He  takes  Stendhal  to  task  for  his  wealth  of  details, 
repetitions  of  words  and  phrases,  exclamatory  phrases  and  "bad" 
use  of  the  tools  for  portraying  emotions  and  analyzing  sensa- 
tions. A.  Lytton  SELLS  — 430 —  "La  Chartreuse  de  Parme: 
The  Problem  of  Style,"  MLQ,  XI  (1950),  486-491,  objects  to 
Stendhal,  stating  that  he  is  monotonous,  that  he  is  neither  de- 
scriptive nor  evocative,  "a  handicap  which  to  any  other  writer 
would  have  been  fatal"  (see  no.  1531). 

Elisabeth  SCHMIDT  — 431 —  Essai  sur  le  style  de  Monique 
Saint-Helier,  Diss.  Zurich,  1943,  is  a  very  sophisticated  attempt 
to  explain  the  interpretation  of  animalistic  life  by  this  friend  of 
Rilke,  through  an  insight  into  the  problem  of  death,  which 
haunted  the  suffering  author.  This  interpretation  takes  place 
through  reflection  on  a  psychologically  disrupted  landscape  (pay- 
sage-ecran) ,  through  the  metaphorism  of  animalistic  sense  per- 
ceptions culminating  in  words  like  bain  and  baignoire,  through 
the  enwoutement  coming  from  the  hyperconcrete  memory  (elle 
sentit  le  par{c  monter  autour  de  ses  hanches),  through  a  style  of 
simultaneous  tensions  (tension  en  fusee),  retardation  and  grada- 
tion, of  "charged"  sentences  heavy  with  intercalations,  opposite 
rhythmical  movements  and  barriers. 

In  addition  to  its  French  studies,  the  Zurich  school  produces 
dissertations  in  the  Italian  field  as  well.    One  may  check  on  the 


432-439  Descriptive  Style  Studies  73 

merits  of  the  School  by  comparing  G.  BARRETTI  —432—  In- 

torno  alio  stile  di  Benvenuto  Cellini,  a  chapter  in  this  author's 
book  on  "Gli  amori  di  Benvenuto  Cellini,"  (Milano:  Bietti,  1935), 
with  Renata  EGGENSCHWYLER  —433—  Saggio  sullo  stile 
di  Benvenuto  Cellini,  Tesi,  Zurich,  1940.  This  dissertation  is  an 
excellent  testing  ground  for  the  progress  in  psychological  style 
studies,  since  their  founder  Karl  VOSSLER  in  one  of  his  first 
studies  had  chosen  the  same  topic  — 434 —  "Benvenuto  Cellinis 
Stil  in  seiner  Vita,"  BREP,  Festschrift  fur  G.  Grbber  (Halle, 
1899),  414-451.  Miss  Eggenschwyler  distinguishes  spontaneous, 
vital,  dynamic,  versus  manneristic  elements  and  bombastic  exag- 
gerations*, i.e.  simplicity  and  complication  at  the  same  time.  Like 
his  life,  Benvenuto's  Vita  is  a  mirror  of  aspirations  and  insuf- 
ficiencies (p.  103)   (see  also  nos.  736,  738,  754). 

Lotte  SPECKER  — 435 —  Jules  Supervielle.  Eine  Stilstudie, 
Diss.  Zurich,  1942,  is  almost  exhaustive  in  the  analysis  of  the 
ecstatic  and  dynamic  elements  of  the  language  of  this  poet. 
Flora  STYGER  — 436 —  Essai  sur  Voeuvre  de  Mme  de  Lafay- 
ette, Diss.  Zurich,  1945,  works  out  the  interplay  between  raison, 
devoir,  societe  and  volonte,  concentrates  on  the  Princesse  de 
Cleves,  and  develops  a  thesis  according  to  which  the  vocabulary 
reflects  the  relation  between  etre  and  paraitre;  the  syntax  re- 
flects the  ratio  passion  :  raison.  The  examples  are  not  numerous, 
but  well  chosen  and  convincing.  The  stress  of  the  master  (Spoer- 
ri)  on  rhythm  is  visible  in  Max  RIBI  — 437 —  Essai  d'une  rythmi- 
que  des  Illuminations  d' Arthur  Rimbaud,  Diss.  Zurich,  1948. 
Erich  BROOK  —438—  "Das  Magische  im  Stil  von  C.  F.  Ramuz," 
T,  I  (1942),  16-33,  is  a  stylistic  proof  of  the  servitude  of  modern 
man,  depending  exclusively  on  the  power  of  things  and  tech- 
nique as  expressed  by  a  machine-like  on  replacing  discriminating 
personal  pronouns. 

H.     Descriptive  Style  Studies  in  Latvia,  Scandinavia, 

Rumania 
In  Latvia,  Sweden  and  Denmark,  the  French  descriptive 
method  has  produced  top-ranking  style  investigators.  (See  no. 
312.)  J.  RATERMANIS  (nos.  101,  102)  —439—  "Essai  sur  le 
style  de  Montesquieu-historien,"  Latvijas  Universitates  Raksti, 
Filologijas  Fakultates,  serija  III,  7  (1936),  225-248,  proves  that 
Montesquieu's  style  has  a  tendency  to  surprise  by  strange  facts 
and  anecdotes,  to  be  agreeable  by  very  short  chapters,  by  rhyth- 


74  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       440-442 

mically  discordant  maximes  containing  violent  oppositions,  by 
conciseness  approaching  obscurity,  as  can  be  proved  from 
the  sources:  "Le  contraste  est  vraiment  une  attitude  perma- 
nente  de  son  esprit,  .  .  .  il  voit  la  realite,  y  compris  la  realite 
historique,  par  contraste,  en  disparate"  (p.  248  b-c) .  J.  B.  Rater- 
manis  — -440 —  Etude  sur  le  style  de  Baudelaire  d'apres  'Les  fleurs 
du  Mai'  et  les  'Petits  Poemes  en  prose'  (Baden-Baden:  Verlag 
fur  Kunst  und  Wissenschaft,  1950),  is  an  achievement  which 
combines  completeness  and  exactness  with  taste  and  judgment. 
Baudelaire  blurs  the  distinctions  between  the  concrete  and  the 
abstract  by  considering  syntactical  and  rhythmical  word-groups 
as  units,  beyond  whose  poetical  results  he  shows  a  deep  anchor- 
ing in  the  best  traditional  language.  They  serve  Baudelaire's 
conscious  aims  as  well  as  his  unconscious  cravings,  and  result  in 
a  more  perfect  and  intellectual  form  in  the  Fleurs  du  mal,  in  a 
more  verbose  and  emotional  form  in  the  Poemes  en  prose. 

Ernst  BENDZ  (nos.  126,  127,  128)  —441—  Frangois  Mau- 
riac, Ebauche  d'une  figure  (Goteborg:  Elander,  1945),  has  dedi- 
cated three  chapters  to  Mauriac's  style  under  the  revealing  head- 
ings :  "Mauriac  'psychanalyse'  a  l'aide  de  son  vocabulaire,"  and 
"Les  Metaphores  de  Mauriac  et  leur  signification."  Bendz  makes 
precise  remarks  on  Mauriac's  "maniere  chaude,  insistante,  ex- 
cessive, lyrique  et  apre"  (p.  155),  with  "un  nombre  presque 
invraisemblable"  of  expressions  of  sinful,  foul,  unhealthy  de- 
struction :  ordure,  cancer,  lepre,  boue,  plaie,  sang,  gibet  and  other 
"choses  laides  ou  repoussantes."  His  metaphors  concerned  with 
the  antinomy  of  flesh  and  spirit  are  endlessly  repeated  (e.g., 
Venterre  vivant) ,  and  alternate  with  the  impressions  of  the  eter- 
nal seascape  of  plages,  dunes  et  marees,  epaves,  varechs,  effluves 
marines  or  the  fauna  of  gros  et  petit  gibier,  cerfs,  sangliers, 
camassiers,  rongeurs,  lievres  et  lapins,  not  to  mention  the  re- 
ligious metaphors.  But  it  is  the  context  which  gives  the  meta- 
phorical fauna  such  a  superlative  and  exaggerated  quality : 

Greta  Garbo,  cette  biche  relancee  a  travers  TEurope  par  la 
meute  des  journalistes,  et  qui  brouille  ses  pistes,  laisse  des  bagages 
dans  un  hotel  pour  mettre  les  limiers  en  defaut,  et  se  tapit  dans 
un  gite  inconnu    (p.  129). 

Irene  FRISCH  FUGLSANG  —442—  "Le  style  de  Colette/' 
Oh,  III  (1945)  1-29;  200-282;  IV  (1946)  95-123,  gives  for  the 
first  time  a  detailed  analysis  of  the  original  means  of  expression 


443-448  From  Expression  to  Thought  75 

used  by  Colette.  She  does  it  in  such  a  penetrating  way  that  she 
can  take  to  task  even  a  master  like  Maurice  Grammont  for  hav- 
ing neglected  the  synaesthetic  problem  which  she  tackles  in 
superior  fashion.  Not  the  remotest  detail  of  any  visual,  auditive 
or  mixed  style  element  escapes  her  descriptive  analysis. 

Rumania  has  entered  the  lists  of  style  analysis  with  D.  CARA- 
COSTEA  — 443 —  Arta  cuvdntului  la  Eminescu  (Bucuresti:  In- 
stitute de  Istorie  literara  §i  Folclor,  1938) .  It  is  a  most  modern 
analysis  of  images,  verse  and  recurrent  forms  as  expressions  of 
ideas,  and  comes  to  the  conclusion  that  Eminescu  is  not  a  poet 
of  pessimism,  but  a  poet  of  the  human  conscience.  The  analysis 
of  the  poem  Lucedfarul  (the  Star)  gets  the  lion's  share  of  ths 
study.  Iorgu  IORDAN  —444—  "Limba  lui  Eminescu,',  RFR, 
VII  (1940),  334-352,  discusses  the  Moldovian  and  archaic  par- 
ticularities in  Eminescu's  style,  involving  all  aspects  of  grammar 
from  vocabulary  to  the  use  of  the  tenses.  The  introduction  dis- 
serts on  the  essence  of  a  verbal  versus  an  historical  study. 
A  quite  similar  attempt  is  Iorgu  IORDAN  — 445 —  "Limba  lui 
Creanga,"  Viata  romineascd  (Nov.  1937),  77  ff. 

I.     The  Shift  from  Expression  to  Thought 

A  tendency  closely  related  to  Brunot's  idea  "De  la  pensee  a 
la  langue,"  but  also  to  Spitzer's  concept  of  a  stylistic  onoma- 
tology,  is  shifting  the  focus  to  the  ideology  behind  the  style, 
This  trend,  using  the  form  as  a  means  only,  not  as  the  essential 
expression,  may  be  linked  with  the  name  of  E.  R.  Curtius,  who 
paved  the  way  with  his  Balzac  (Bonn,  1923)  to  a  new  stylistic 
school.  Curtius  breaks  the  verbally  expressed  concept  of  srn 
author  into  prismatic  rays  reducible  to  an  idee  maitresse  or  a 
sentiment  maitre.  To  give  a  good  idea  of  a  strictly  phaenomeno- 
logical-stylistic  study  of  this  kind,  let  us  mention  a  thesis  of  Cur- 
tius' pupil  Walter  NAUMANN  —446—  Der  Sprachgebrauch 
Uallarmes,  Diss.  Bonn,  1936,  highly  praised  by  Kurt  WAIS 
as  — 447 —  "Psychologie  des  dichterischen  Wortschatzes,"  ANS, 
CLXXII  (1937),  188-198.  From  all  the  domains  of  life  and  art 
Mallarme  distills  the  exquisite ;  his  moods :  ennui,  soupir,  never 
larme;  his  objects  of  beauty:  diamant,  luxe,  faste,  splendeur, 
rite,  sacre,  triomphe ;  his  ideals :  absolu,  pur,  vierge,  chaste,  su- 
preme. Extending  the  ideological  study  from  the  vocabulary  to 
syntax  and  figures  of  speech,  Hugo  FRIEDRICH  — 448—  "Pas- 
cals  Paradox.     Das    Sprachbild    einer    Denkform,,,    ZRP,    LV 


76  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       449-451 

(1936),  322-370,  analyzes  similarly  the  style  of  Pascal  after 
having  discovered  its  mental  core.  Pascal's  dilemma  consists  in 
being  obliged  to  render  his  experience  of  faith  by  the  language 
of  thought,  just  as  his  life  problem  is  to  get  security  and  proof 
in  the  domain  of  Faith.  Therefore,  he  evens  out  the  antithesis 
between  the  intellect  and  the  heart  by  an  adversatively  used  et 
instead  of  mats.  He  tries  to  find  a  middle  course  between  savoir 
certainement  and  ignorer  absolument.  He  mitigates  the  lan- 
guage of  the  abstract  thinker  with  emotional  metaphors  and 
similes.  His  pictures  are  intended  to  give  a  special  light  of 
experience  to  the  dogmatic  statement.  While  not  reaching  his 
paradoxical  aim  positively,  he  comes  to  conclusions  expressed  in 
a  minor  negative  tone :  ne  pas  savoir  denier.  He  finally  comes 
to  philosophical,  paradoxical  statements  of  the  deepest  truth: 
"La  religion  abaisse  infiniment  plus  que  la  seule  raison  .  .  .  ,  mais 
elle  eleve  infiniment  plus  que  Porgueil."  Thus  he  is  working  out 
in  detail  the  tension  between  knowledge  and  faith,  concluding 
with  the  essential,  deep,  mysterious  paradox  of  the  greatest  wis- 
dom's coming  from  Uobscurite  de  la  foi  (see  no.  1190) .  Nau- 
mann's  and  Friedrich's  method  was  closely  followed  by  Sister 
Georgiana  TERSTEGGE  — 449 —  Providence  as  Idee-Maitresse 
in  the  Works  of  Bossuet.  Theme  and  Stylistic  Motif,  Diss.  Catho- 
lic University,  Washington,  D.  C.,  1948,  particularly  in  chapter 
III,  pp.  144-212. 

Explaining  the  style  from  central  ideas  is  also  the  concern  of 
Ruth  Elizabeth  McDONALD  — 450 —  "Le  langage  de  Girau- 
doux,"  PMLA,  LXIII  (1948),  1029-1050.  She  reduces  the  mind 
and  art  of  Giraudoux  to  a  few  mots-clefs  such  as  absence,  ecluse, 
tampon,  innocence,  starting  from  the  ideal  projection  of  the 
personality,  the  turning  towards  "ecstatic"  realizations  and  the 
penetrating  of  the  unreal.  At  the  same  time  she  criticizes  the 
"at-random"  stylistic  approach  of  Gabriel  DU  GENfiT  — 451 — 
Jean  Giraudoux,  ou  un  essai  sur  les  rapports  entre  Vecrivam  et 
son  langage  (Paris:  Vigneau,  1945).  Genet,  however,  had  dis- 
covered that  "Paventure  du  mot"  in  Giraudoux  penetrates  meta- 
physical areas  by  irony,  and  reaches  the  elegance  of  Greek 
statues. 

In  this  relation  between  central  thought  and  style,  as  soon  as 
philosophers,  thinkers  and  critics  are  under  consideration,  it  is, 
of  course,  thought  which  has  to  be  stressed,  although  the  shades 
of  the  thought  are  only  recognizable  in  and  from  the  style.    This 


452-459  From  Expression  to  Thought  77 

becomes  clear  from  Leo  SPITZER  —452—  "Patterns  of  Thought 
in  the  Style  of  Albert  Thibaudet,,,  MLQ,  IX  (1948),  259-72,  and 
478-91 :  "The  plenitude  of  our  world,  .  .  .  accepted  ...  is  what 
informs  Thibaudet's  patterns  of  thought"  (p.  490).  Spitzer 
thus  shows  his  own  inclination  to  shift  from  artefact  to  mean- 
ing in  many  more  recent  linguistic  psychoanalytic  studies  of 
authors,  the  latest  of  which  — 4,53 —  The  Style  of  Diderot,  135- 
192,  pierces  Diderot's  staccato-mimicry  style  as  the  expression 
of  an  emotional  and  vulgar  mobility.  Liselotte  RADMANN 
— 454 —  Der  Stil  Clement  Marots  in  seinen  Dichtungen,  Diss. 
Frankfurt,  1932,  simply  points  out  that  every  linguistic  expres- 
sion of  this  poet  is  informed  by  gracefulness  and  esprit. 

The  concept  of  language  as  "mirror"  had  become  a  fashion 
since  the  appearance  of  Karl  VOSSLER's  — 455 —  Frankreichs 
Kultur  im  Spiegel  seiner  Sprachentwicklung  (Heidelberg: 
Winter,  1913) .  Since  then  ideological  style  studies  go  under  two 
types  of  headlines :  "ideas  reflected  by  style"  as  well  as  "style  as 
expression  of  ideas."  A  typical  onomatological  style  study  in 
the  first  sense  is  E.  MERIAN-GENAST  —456—  "Corneilles 
Wertgefiihl  im  Spiegel  seiner  Bildersprache,"  in  FET,  219-228. 
Merian-Genast  discovered  that  Corneille's  metaphors  of  fighting, 
battle,  victory,  etc.  do  not  reveal  a  dual  tension  between  pro- 
pensity and  duty,  but  a  haughty  pride  which  craves  for  domina- 
tion at  any  cost.  Klara  PASCH  — 457 —  Charles-Ferdinand 
Ramuz:  Motive  und  Sprache  seiner  Romane  als  Ausdruck  seiner 
waadtlandischen  Heimat,  Diss.  Rostock,  1938,  could  discuss  the 
language  of  an  author  as  reflecting  his  soil,  while  Charlotte 
DIETSCHY  —458—  "Natur  und  Mensch  in  Gionos  Sprache," 
FET,  71-77,  shows  how  Giono's  animalistic  urge  to  share  in  the 
life  of  Nature  animalizes  his  Provencal  landscape  to  a  pan-sexual 
being,  where  La  Durance,  cette  garce,  fait  sa  risette  blanche  (73) 
and  le  vent  hurle  sa  musique  (73),  dans  cette  grande  saumure  de 
la  vie  totale  .  .  .  dans  cette  epaisse  boue  de  vie  qui  est  le  melange 
des  hommes,  des  betes,  des  arbres,  de  la  pierre  (73). 

Enrique  ANDERSON  IMBERT  —459—  Tres  novelas  de 
Payro.  Con  picaros  en  tres  miras  (Tucuman:  Facultad  de  Filo- 
sofia  y  letras,  1942),  uses  a  rich  material,  particularly  in  his 
notes,  to  describe  three  different  types  of  rogue  expression  in 
short  stories  written  by  the  Argentinian  Roberto  J.  Payro  (1867- 
1928).  All  the  styles  of  Payro  remain  somewhat  hybrid,  since 
the  born  naturalist  cannot  cope  with  the  refinement  of  stylistic 


78  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors        460-464 

conquests  of  the  modernists.  The  case  of  Payr6,  comparable 
to  the  case  of  Balzac,  proves  that  one  can  be  an  excellent  nar- 
rator and  at  the  same  time  a  mediocre  manipulator  of  language. 
This  type  of  style  study  reaches  the  stylistic  limit  when  the 
expression  is  not  sought  for  in  the  language  but  in  the  composi- 
tion, e.g.  in  a  dissertation  like  E.  WITTKOWER  — 460—  Die 
Form  der  Essais  von  Montaigne.  Ein  Ausdruck  seiner  Lebens- 
und  Kunstanschauung,  Diss.  Basel,  1935. 

J.    From  Author  to  Single  Work  and  Literary  Group 

The  most  exact  studies  of  style  seem  to  be  those  which  con- 
sider only  one  single  work  of  an  author.  The  special  age  in 
which  an  author  writes,  the  different  problems  which  each  dif- 
ferent single  work  of  his  output  offers  may  be  sources  of  mis- 
takes of  one  who  treats  the  style  of  an  author  in  all  his  works  as 
a  unity  without  considering  his  stylistic  evolution.  On  the  other 
hand  the  style  of  a  single  work  concerns  rather  its  role  within 
the  structure  of  this  work  than  with  regard  to  the  psyche  of  its 
author.  Here  the  psychoanalysis  of  the  author  is  definitely  re- 
placed by  the  study  of  the  artefact.  Therefore,  the  stylistic 
monograph  remains  the  ideal  thing  to  be  done.  An  example 
would  be  Antonio  M.  G.  FERREIRA  — 461—  0  Estilo  de  'Eu- 
rico o  Presbitero'  de  Alexandre  Herculano  (Coimbra:  Faculdade 
de  Letras,  1945).  This  "Contribucjio  para  o  estudo  do  estilo  de 
Herculano/'  as  the  subtitle  states,  is  based  on  the  modern  Ger- 
man "Stilforschung,"  and  contains  a  bibliography  of  whatever 
might  be  considered  a  stylistic  contribution  in  Portuguese  cri- 
ticism. R.  GARZIA  — 462 —  "Lingua  e  stile  nei  Tromessi 
Sposi',"  Conv,  VII  (1935),  647-98,  explains  that  only  the  risciac- 
quatura  of  the  novel  made  possible  the  artistic  display  of  Man- 
zonfs  personal  stylistic  means  of  presentation. 

More  grammatically  conceived  is  Ch.  GUERLIN  DE  GUER 
— 463 —  "La  langue  et  le  style  d'Agrippa  d'Aubigne  dans  'Les 
Aventures  du  Baron  de  Faeneste',"  FM,  IX  (1941),  241  ff.  Mar- 
cel CRESSOT  —464—  "Une  langue  d'art.  La  langue  de 
Thedre',"  FM,  X  (1942) ,  169-182,  tries  to  solve  in  this  particular 
tragedy  the  difficult  problem  of  Racine's  attainment  to  the  most 
poetic  effects  with  practically  ordinary  language.  Racine  succeeds 
by  creating  with  a  net  of  synonyms,  antonyms,  epithets,  and 
metaphors,   climates   of   innocence,   serenity,   languor,   passion. 


465-472  From  Author  to  Group  79 

His  "orchestration"  makes  ordinary  words  appear  poetical: 
"les  mots  qui  courent  les  rues  et  qui  designent  l'amour  et  la  dou- 
leur  retrouvent  sous  sa  plume  leur  resonance  premiere"  (p.  132) . 
L.  SPITZER  has  even  outdone  Cressot  in  one  of  his  most  mar- 
velous studies  on  the  language  of  a  single  scene  of  Phedre, 
— 465 —  "Le  recit  de  Theramene,"  Linguistics  and  Literary  His- 
tory (Princeton,  1948),  87-134,  where  the  ornateness  "succeeds 
in  taming  the  monster  by  style,"  and  "strange  shapes  emerge  as 
if  painted  by  a  Rubens."  Ira  0.  WADE  —466—  "The  Style  of 
Micromegas,"  in  his  book  Voltaire's  Micromegas,  A  study  in  the 
fusion  of  science,  myth  and  art  (Princeton:  Univ.  Press,  1950), 
89-106,  makes  very  pertinent  remarks  on  the  idea  of  the  pride 
(infiniment  grand)  of  men  (infiniment  petits)  as  artistically  ex- 
pressed in  the  title  with  its  vocalic  melody  and  clashing  conso- 
nants. He  finds  the  same  principle  in  the  unstable  balance  of 
adversative  adjectives  and  adverbs  (peu,  faible,  mediocre,  vetil- 
lard,  ignorant,  chetif,  plat,  versus  prodigieux,  universel,  illustre, 
superieur,  immense,  eternel) ,  in  the  dialogue  between  the  author 
and  his  public  veiled  by  the  gesticulation  of  shadowgraph  char- 
acters. All  these  elements  form  a  delightfully  unique  compound 
of  contrast,  variety,  proportion,  rhythm  and  harmony. 

R.  ETIEMBLE  —467—  "Le  style  du  'Thesee'  d' Andre  Gide," 
TM,  II  (1947),  1032-38,  wonders  whether  in  his  analysis  he  is 
not  obliged  to  admit  that  this  style  is  an  atticism  alterated  by 
Stalinism.  In  one  of  his  articles,  SPITZER  has  analyzed  one 
of  Dante's  styles  in  a  single  canto.  This  style  depends  on  the  par- 
ticular situation  and  literary  climate  of  the  suicide  bolgia 
—468—  "Speech  and  Language  in  Inferno  XIII,"  J,  XIX  (1942) , 
81-104.  C.  STEGER  is  concerned  with  certain  verbal  features 
of  the  novels  of  F.  Sacchetti  — 469 —  Appunti  sulla  lingua  delle 
'Novelle'  di  Franco  Sacchetti,  Diss.  Bonn,  1930.  Style  in  its  re- 
striction to  the  conditions  of  literary  genre  is  the  topic  of  Leo 
SPITZER  —470—  "The  Epic  Style  of  the  Pilgrim  Aetheria," 
CL,  I  (1949),  225-258,  where  he  already  sees  features  which  be- 
come typical  for  the  Chanson  de  geste.  Hernani  CIDADE 
— 471—  "O  estilo  epico  nos  Lusiadas,"  RFP,  II  (1948),  16-27, 
considers  condensation  of  the  poetic  realism  together  with  clas- 
sical allusions  and  circumlocutions  as  typical  of  Cam6es,  epic 
style.  This  study  has  been  put  into  a  larger  frame  comprising 
also  questions  like  — 472 —  "A  substancia  epica ;  As  batalhas ;  O 
retrato  dos  herois;  a  estructura  classica,"  in  Hernani  Cidade, 


80  The  Language  of  Individual  Authors       473-479 

Luis  de  Camoes  II.  0  Epico  (Lisboa:  Revista  da  Faculdade  de 
Letras,  1950). 

As  there  is  a  type  of  stylistic  language  study  which,  as  we 
have  just  seen,  retreats  from  an  author  to  a  single  work  or  even 
part  of  a  work,  there  is  also  a  possibility  of  studying  style  in  its 
extension  from  one  author  to  an  organic  group.  (In  such  cases, 
of  course,  we  may  be  very  often  confronted  with  mere  man- 
nerism). Such  an  attempt,  from  a  lexicological-syntactical 
angle,  was  first  made  by  the  pioneer  Leo  SPITZER  — 473 —  "Die 
sprachlichen  Errungenschaften  der  Symbolisten,"  Aufsdtze  zur 
romanischen  Syntax  und  Stilistik  (Halle:  Niemeyer,  1918), 
281-339.  Later  he  was  joined  on  a  larger  scale  by  Svend  JO- 
HANSEN  — 474 —  Le  symbolisme,  Etude  sur  le  style  des  sym- 
bolistes  frangais  (Copenhague:  Munksgaard,  1945),  a  linguistic- 
philosophical  analysis  of  the  language  of  the  symbolists  from 
Baudelaire  to  Valery  as  "une  poesie  pure  par  images"  with  deep 
insights  into  synesthesie,  symbole,  image,  incantation,  absence, 
fantaisie.  This  work  is  the  first  extensive  group  style  study 
worth  mentioning  in  the  last  forty  years,  namely  since  the  still 
very  valuable  book  of  E.  BARAT  — 475 —  Le  style  poetique  et 
la  revolution  romantique  (Paris,  1904).  It  is  now  supplemented 
by  a  similarly  conceived  Sorbonne  dissertation  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Charles  Bruneau,  who  himself  used  it  for  volume  X  of 
Brunot's  Histoire  de  la  langue  frangaise:  GUY  LEFRANC 
— 476 —  La  langue  et  le  style  des  Jeunes  France  (Paris,  1947), 
concerned  with  Petrus  Borel,  Philotee  O'Neddy,  etc.  Only 
slightly  helpful  is  the  brochure  on  modern  group  style,  Emil 
WINKLER  — 477 —  Stilprobleme  der  franzosischen  Gegen- 
wartslyrik  (Wien,  1928). 

K.     The  Style  Sketch 

In  the  long  run,  all  these  analyses  would  result  in  the  dreaded 
stylistic  library,  as  Ulrich  Leo  once  put  it.  Therefore  a  real 
desideratum  is  the  scientifically  exact  style  sketch  in  which  only 
the  results  are  given  and  not  the  whole  material  on  which  these 
results  are  based.  Helmut  HATZFELD  —478—  "A  sketch  of 
Joinville's  Prose  Style,"  MS,  71-80,  wanted  to  present  such  a 
study  by  definition.  Since  this  was  done  for  the  first  time,  he 
submitted  for  control  the  material  on  which  the  sketch  was 
based  — 479 —  "Studfen  zum  Prosastil  Joinvilles,"  Studia  Ro- 
manica  (Melanges  Lerch)   (Urach:  Post,  in  print).  { 


480-488  The  Style  Sketch  81 

Artistic  language  characterization  on  an  impressionistic 
basis,  combined  with  real  taste  in  sketching  features,  has  always 
been  the  prerogative  of  the  French.  It  belongs  to  the  best  type 
of  the  "critique  litteraire,"  and  the  style  investigator  will  indeed 
ask  in  each  single  case  whether  he  may  do  more  and  better  than 
those  critics.  Rene  GAUTIER  — 480 —  Deux  aspects  du  style 
classique.  Bossuet.  Voltaire  (La  Rochelle:  Institut  d'  etudes 
franchises,  1936),  is  an  ideal  piece  of  work  in  this  sense.  Gau- 
tier  makes — tout  en  causant- — the  most  penetrating  analysis  of 
the  language  of  Bossuet  "a  la  voix  d'un  orgue,"  "a  la  phrase 
classique  marmoreenne"  (p.  31),  "aux  pauses  rhythmiques  qui 
flattent  l'oreille"  (37),  to  which  Voltaire  opposes  his  "phrase 
menue  des  vieux  auteurs  de  chroniques  et  de  fabliaux"  (31), 
"tout  en  pleine  lumiere"  (28),  "procedant  par  touches  succes- 
sives,  epithetes  positives"  (34),  "enregistrant  toutes  les  vibra- 
tions de  l'esprit"  (35) .  A  still  more  condensed,  but  no  less  exact 
appreciation  of  Michelet's  language  has  been  given  by  Jacques 
BOULANGER  —481—  "La  magie  de  Michelet,"  he  Temps  (15 
Mai,  1936).  He  insists  on  the  images  concretes  of  this  "peintre 
musicien  et  evocateur"  who  calls  Marie  Stuart  a  pale  rose  de 
prison  and  the  countess  of  Valois  une  mendiante  a  quatre  chevaux. 
Sketches  of  Montaigne's  style,  done  in  similar  fashion,  may  be 
found  in  Pierre  VILLEY  et  al.  — 482—  "Le  style  de  Montaigne," 
BSAM  (June,  1939),  73  ff.,  as  based  on  Pierre  VILLEY  "Le 
style"  in  his  — 483 —  Les  sources  et  revolution  des  Essais  de 
Montaigne  (Paris:  Hachette,  1908),  vol.  II,  292-306  (see  no. 
510),  and  in  Pierre  MOREAU  —484—  "L'art  et  la  langue  de 
Montaigne,"  in  his  Montaigne,  Vhomme  et  Voeuvre  (Paris: 
Boivin,  1939),  108-133.  A  style  sketch  of  Moliere  was  done  by 
J.  VINCENT  —485—  "Le  style  de  Moliere,"  Cx,  VIII-IX  (Jan- 
vier, 1922). 

Charles  DU  BOS  said  the  last  word  about  the  style  of  Pascal 
in  his  outstanding  article  — 4,86 —  "Le  langage  de  Pascal,"  RHe 
(July,  1923),  253-266.  He  was  followed  in  mediocre  fashion  by 
A.  REDIER  —487—  "L'art  du  style  chez  Pascal,"  EAP,  XXII 
(1930),  121-129.  Finally,  there  may  be  mentioned  the  style 
sketch  on  Balzac  by  ALAIN  (Emile  Chartier)  — 488 —  "Etude 
d'ensemble  sur  le  style  de  Balzac,"  Esprit  (dec.  1949).  It  is  very 
difficult  to  make  a  selection  from  the  essays  which  come  closest 
to  ,a  philologically  acceptable  synthesis.  *  Among  the  present 
French  critics,  R.  Etiemble  moves  along  the  lines  desired. 


CHAPTER  V 

Sf/Se    Transcending    Language 

(The  "Art"  of  an  Author) 

The  crisis  of  style  investigation,  i.e.  the  doubt  about  what 
must  be  studied,  brought  up  the  question  of  the  distinction  be- 
tween a  style  analyst  and  a  literary  critic.  Furthermore,  style 
as  expression  of  the  psyche  of  an  author  is  no  longer  considered 
an  aesthetic  and  ergocentric  concern.  Finally,  the  mere  analysis 
of  the  verbal  elements  seemed  to  neglect  essentials  of  the  work 
of  art.  Structure,  organization,  characterization,  order,  sus- 
pense, literary  genus,  motifs,  etc.  of  a  work  detached  from  Hts 
author  certainly  are  to  be  taken  into  account  as  much  as  the 
language  itself  from  which  these  elements  are  inseparable. 
Therefore  there  are  studies  on  style  which  try  rather  to  com- 
prise in  a  more  general  way,  as  their  titles  indicate,  the  art,  the 
work  of  art,  work  and  art,  the  artistic  work,  the  writing,  the 
literary  creation,  style  and  creation,  man  and  style,  humanity 
and  style,  the  mastership  in  prose,  art  of  prose,  the  expression, 
the  eloquence,  the  story  telling,  the  poetry,  poetry  and  style, 
poetry  and  art,  method  and  poetry,  poetical  message,  poetical 
exegesis,  poetical  evocation,  the  artistic  aspect,  the  artistic  con- 
sciousness, the  composition,  history  and  fiction,  style  as  tra- 
jectory of  fiction,  vision  and  composition,  the  form,  the  artistic 
form,  the  poetic  world,  the  originality,  revolution  and  tradition, 
the  classical  ideal,  the  structure,  symbolic  structure,  harmonious 
structure,  musical  structure,  form  and  structure,  stylistic  struc- 
ture, structure  and  style,  structural  analysis,  structure  and 
sensibility,  symbolism,  style  and  symbolism,  spirit  and  form, 
beauty,  plenitude,  fictional  technique,  technique  of  the  novel,  of 
the  sermon,  poetical  technique,  poetical  method,  secrets  of  the 
workshop,  variation,  essence,  a  particular  technique,  a  "critical" 
study,  taste,  aesthetical  value,  aesthetical  interpretation,  aes- 
thetics, rhetorics,  oratory  aesthetics,  poetics  of  a  work,  linguis- 
tics and  poetics  of  an  author,  poetical  unity,  art  and  thought, 
art  and  mind,  art  and  passion,  inspiration  and  sound  expression, 
inner  concept,  method  and  artistic  personality  of  an  author,  an 
author  as  a  writer,  as  a  narrator,  as  a  poet,  the  case  of  a  writer 
and  the  -ism  of  a  writer. 


489-492  France  83 

In  view  of  such  a  confusing  variety  of  approaches  it  seems 
impossible  to  select  these  different  types  themselves  as  a  prin- 
ciple of  subdivision  of  the  material.  We  present  the  studies 
therefore  in  a  chronological  order,  with  relation  rather  to  the 
literary  history  of  the  subject  matter  than  to  the  history  of  stylis- 
tic scholarship.  Works  discussed  by  students  of  structure  will 
thus  begin  with  the  chansons  de  geste  and  end  with  Sartre. 
For  further  convenience  the  French,  Spanish-Portuguese  (in- 
cluding Latin  American),  and  Italian  articles  will  be  entirely 
separated.  In  other  words,  the  main  divisions  will  be  linguistic- 
geographical,  the  subdivisions  historical. 

A.    France 
1.    Middle  Ages 

Since  Henri  Franqois  MULLER  in  his  — 489 —  Uepoque 
merovingienne.  Essai  de  synthese  de  philologie  et  d'histoire  (New 
York:  Vanni,  1945)  has  offered  thought  patterns  and  stylistic 
expressions  in  Late  Latin  on  Gallic  soil  corresponding  to  modern 
French  interior  forms  of  language,  the  stylistic  critic  must  cope 
with  the  probability  that  French  stylistic  art  forms  are  hidden 
behind  those  of  authors  who  were  writing  in  Late  Latin.  Studies 
along  this  line  were  started  with  the  dissertation  of  Andre 
LOYEN  — 490 —  Sidoine  Apollinaire  et  V  esprit  precieux  en 
Gaule  aux  derniers  jours  de  VEmpire,  These,  Paris,  1943.  Then 
Edmond  FARAL  — 491 —  "Sidoine  Apollinaire  et  la  technique 
litteraire  du  moyen  age,"  in  MGM,  vol.  II,  567-580,  stressed  the 
fact  that  according  to  the  artes  poeticae  of  the  twelfth  century, 
the  writing  of  Sidonius  Apollinaris  is  one  of  the  outstanding 
style  patterns  for  the  whole  Middle  Ages, — Latin  and  Vernacu- 
lar— particularly  his  procedure  called  determination  by  which  he 
establishes  entire  series  of  nouns  drastically  qualified,  first  by 
the  epithet  and  then  by  wordplay  and  "vers  rapportes."  An 
example  of  an  adverbial  circumlocution  followed  by  a  verb  in 
such  a  series  is  this : 

In  concilio  jubet,  in  consilio  tacet,  in  ecolesia  jocatur,  in  con- 
vivio  praedicat,  in  cubiculo  damnat,  in  quaestione  dormitat  (p.  575). 
The  Romance  scholar  must  go  back  even  further  in  view  of 
his  own  problems  and  listen  to  competent  analyzers  who  open 
to  him  the  art  of  the  "vernacular"  at  the  earliest  stage.  Hein 
Leopold  Wilhelmus  NELSON  — 492 —  Petronius  en  zijn  'Vul- 
gairf  Latijn.  Een  stilistisch-grammatische  studie  over  de  zooge- 
naamde  'Vulgaire  Dictiof  in  de  Cena  Trimalchionis,  Proefschrift 


84  Style  Transcending  Language  493-495 

(Utrecht,  1947),  brings  home  the  fact  that  the  "vulgarism"  of 
Petronius  is  not  a  popular  Latin,  but  a  highly  stylized  speech  in 
which  the  vocabulary  and  certain  forms  are  vulgar  only  if  they 
are  used  for  artistic  purposes;  it  is  therefore  a  diction  pur- 
posely made  "vulgar"  to  express  the  vulgarity  of  the  speakers. 
This  comes  to  the  fore  in  short  clauses,  parallelisms  stressed  by 
repetition,  conspicuous  asyndeta,  avoidance  of  hypotaxis,  con- 
crete, drastic  metaphors  and  antitheses  between  abstracts  and 
concretes  (discordia,  non  homo).  A  condensed  and  livelier  style 
study  on  the  art  of  the  Coena  Trimalchioiiis  may  be  found  in  E. 
AUHiRBACH  —493—  Mimesis  (No.  88),  31-55. 

In  the  Old  Provencal  field  there  is  a  penetrating  study  on  the 
art  of  a  troubadour:  J.  J.  SALVERDA  DE  GRAVE  — 494— 
"Observations  sur  Tart  lyrique  de  Guiraut  de  Borneil,"  in  MNAW 
(1938),  1-131.  The  author  starts  from  themes  of  the  trouba- 
dours :  joy,  love,  obedience  to  the  lady,  duties  of  the  lady,  enemies 
(lauzengier) ,  physical  sufferings  caused  by  the  robbed  heart, 
and  beauty  of  the  lady.  Then  he  deals  with  the  tone  of  this 
poetry:  irony,  exaggeration,  mysterious  allusions,  etc.,  proceeds 
to  the  features  of  composition,  such  as  feigned  and  lively  dia- 
logues; and  crowns  the  whole  study  by  keen  observations  con- 
cerning the  language.  The  style  reaches  an  extreme  conciseness 
by  abuse  of  the  conjunction  que,  and  becomes  stimulating  be- 
cause of  original  comparisons,  particular  semantics,  wordplay, 
unexpected  rapprochements,  and  a  certain  amount  of  preciosity 
and  wishful  obscurity.  Kurt  LEWENT  —495—  "Zum  Inhalfe 
und  Aufbau  der  Fiamenca,"  ZRP,  L1II  (1933),  1-86,  shows  that 
Flamenca  is  a  work  of  artistic  unity,  a  point  of  view  which  was 
questioned  before  this  study.  There  is  a  unification  of  the  cen- 
tral idea  of  love,  the  psychology,  the  surroundings  with  detailed 
descriptions  of  garb  and  gestures,  the  tender  lyricism,  the  humor, 
and  finally  the  composition  with  suspense,  secondary  actions, 
motifs  and  motivations,  considered  from  the  beginning  and 
conducted  by  the  inner  irony  of  things  and  occurences,  so  that 
the  gilos  himself  becomes  unconsciously  the  pander  of  his  own 
wife. 

Those  scholars  who  center  everything  around  structure  in- 
stead of  style  are  more  exigent  than  those  who  consider  style 
only  as  an  expression  through  language.  They  want  to  seize  the 
link  between  the  body  and  the  soul  of  the  work.  In  this 
concept,  the  expression  is  found  not  only  in  the  language,  but 


496-499  France  85 

in  the  whole  structure.  But  the  chances  of  success  for  this  almost 
impossible  double  grasp  on  language  and  meta-language,  which 
may  well  be  called  the  grasp  on  form,  are  good  and  promising 
only  with  works  in  which  the  oratorical  element  is  so  strong  that 
without  it  the  artefact  would  not  exist  at  all.  This  is  generally 
not  the  case  with  the  literature  of  the  Middle  Ages  despite  its 
following  strictly  the  precepts  of  poetical  art.  Therefore  the 
attempt  to  snatch  from  an  author  of  the  Middle  Ages  the  secret 
of  his  art  consists  mostly  in  a  selective  choice  of  points  which 
appear  essential  to  the  analyzer  only. 

Thus  Mario  A.  PEI  — 496 —  French  Precursors  of  the  Chan- 
son de  Roland  (New  York :  Columbia  Univ.  Press,  1948) ,  by  con- 
sidering only  the  common  and  self-evident  traits,  believes  there 
are  hagiographic  style  patterns  for  the  Roland  to  be  found  in  the 
earlier  Old  French  literature.  William  S.  WOODS  —497—  "The 
Symbolic  Structure  of  La  Chanson  de  Roland,"  PMLA,  LXV 
(1950),  1247-1262,  may  be  doubted  as  to  the  symbolism  of  the 
laisse-triads  discovered  by  him  in  the  Roland,  but  he  must  be 
credited  with  having  proved  beyond  any  doubt  that  this  poem 
(with  the  exception  of  the  Baligant-episode)  offers  forty  major 
cases  covering  about  1900  lines,  "where  the  author  of  the  Roland 
has  used  three  strophe  groups  to  present  a  unit  of  action,  or  a 
psychological,  or  emotional  unit."  Each  unit  is  framed,  either  by  a 
change  of  setting,  of  character,  a  poetic  line,  a  personal  inter- 
vention or  a  conclusion.  Certain  points  of  a  more  artistic  mood 
and  hieratic,  but  realistic  characterization  were  found  by  Hed- 
wig  DAUER  — 498 —  Der  Kunstcharakter  der  Chanson  de  Wil- 
lelme,  Diss.  Munchen,  1932. 

Reto  R.  BEZZOLA  —499—  "De  Roland  a  Raoul  de  Cambrai," 
MHoe,  195-213,  is  a  respectable  attempt  at  describing  the  change 
of  epic  style  under  the  influence  of  social  change  in  the  Carolin- 
gian  empire  and  the  feudal  society.  Therefore  the  Roland  with 
hieratic  and  solemn  accent  represents  almost  cosmic  forces.  A 
monumental  unity  links  Charles  and  the  Christian  repentant  hero 
Roland.  They  stand  with  God  versus  the  Saracen  Antichrist, 
so  that  to  their  battles  and  death  a  cosmic  nature  refrain  like 
"Halt  sunt  li  pui"  is  in  order.  The  Chanson  de  Willelme  only 
outlines  the  desperate  fight  of  the  conscientious  feudal  lineage 
against  the  exterior  enemy,  and  the  refrain  to  the  action  is  not 
an  organ  tone  but  an  unforeseen  bugle  sound,  "Lunsdi  al  vespre," 
fitting  in  with  a  mixed  style  of  grandiose  sauvagerie  and  bur- 


86  Style  Transcending  Language  500-504 

lesque  humor.  The  Couronnement  Louis  is  a  well  composed  epic 
of  feudal  triumph,  although  based  on  the  decay  of  a  helpless  king 
and  built  on  the  tragic  refrain:  "Ou  sont  alle  li  vaillant  che- 
valier ?"  not  all  of  whom  are  ready  to  protect  him.  Raoul  de 
Cambrai  is  the  epic  of  the  ruthless  individual  in  a  time  of  royal 
and  feudal  anarchy.  Passion,  bloodthirstiness,  perversion,  crime 
are  reflected  in  the  refrain :  "Raoul  Y  oi',  li  cors  tressue."  Bez- 
zola  is  clearly  aware  of  the  right  type  of  style  and  structure 
study  for  the  Old  French  epic. 

In  certain  titles,  art  and  structure  in  a  comprehensive  sense 
are  simply  called  "style,"  even  if  there  are  no  language  problems 
at  issue,  but  only  problems  of  arrangement  and  composition. 
This  is  the  case  in  Heinrich  HEMPEL  — 500 —  "Franzosischer 
und  deutscher  Stil  im  hofischen  Epos,"  GRM,  XXIII  (1935), 
1-24  (see  also  no.  234) .  Reto  R.  Bezzola  has  seen  that  Gustave 
COHEN's  famous  book  — 501 —  Un  grand  romancier:  Chretien 
de  Troyes  et  son  oeuvre  (Paris:  Boivin,  1931;  second  edition 
1948),  lacked  systematic  analysis  from  the  aesthetic  point  of 
view.  Therefore  BEZZOLA  proposed  some  amendments  — 502 — 
"Zur  kiinstlerischen  Personlichkeit  Chretiens,"  ANS,  LXVII 
(1935),  42-54.  He  stressed  Chretien's  compositional  skill,  and 
the  unique  fusion  of  realism  with  an  atmosphere  of  magic  sur- 
rounding charming  feminine  characters.  Bezzola  then  expanded 
these  ideas  in  a  book  — 503 —  Le  sens  de  Vaventure  et  de  V amour 
(Chretien  de  Troyes)    (Paris:  La  Jeune  Parque,  1948). 

Alfred  ADLER  — 504 —  "Sovereignty  as  the  Principle  of 
Unity  in  Chretien's  Erec,"  PMLA,  LX  (1945),  917-936,  has  dis- 
covered that  the  fundamental  force  informing  Erec  is  the  artis- 
tically developed  theme  of  sovereignty  in  the  concept  of  a  hus- 
band. This  motif,  though  static  as  topic,  embodied  in  the  story, 
reaches  from  the  brutal  dictatorial  idea  to  that  of  a  refined 
patriarchal  dignity  compatible  with  real  love;  it  is  developed  as 
a  theme  with  the  corresponding  adventures  for  its  variations. 
This  type  of  composition  makes  it  possible  that  "the  event  that 
comes  later  in  time  may  be  interpreted  as  a  gloss,  an  elucidation 
of  an  earlier  event."  So  the  modern  stylistic  interpretation  is 
confirmed  by  medieval  concepts,  because  the  "interpretation  by 
retrospect"  is  visible  in  all  medieval  works  and  was  learned  from 
the  exegesis  of  Scripture,  as  is  stressed  by  scholars  like  Glunz, 
Curtius,  Spitzer,  Nitze,  Singleton,  Auerbach. 

Adler  is  thus  in  possession  of  a  key  for  grouping  and  uniting 


505-508  France 

the  adventures  according  to  particular  types.  For  Chretien's 
"symphonic  sense  of  the  recurring  theme"  does  not  fail  to  intro- 
duce the  same  wording  for  corresponding  situations  far  distant 
from  one  another.  Thanks  to  the  discovery  of  these  clear-cut 
leit-motifs,  Adler  finally,  in  the  wake  of  Bezzola,  can  free  the 
Joie  de  la  Cort  episode  from  its  reputed  isolation  in  the  work, 
firstly,  by  giving  it  not  only  the  vital  psychological  sense,  of  warn- 
ing Erec  against  falling  into  the  other  extreme  of  a  courtly 
bondage ;  secondly,  by  incorporating  it  into  the  motif  group  called 
by  Adler  "the  dangerous  passage" ;  thirdly,  by  pointing  out  that 
the  Joie  de  la  Cort  contains,  like  a  finale,  the  strongest  wording 
of  ideal  sovereignty  in  an  altogether  patriarchal  and  modern 
sense,  the  matrimonial  sovereignty  over  a  wife  who  will  remain 
the  lady-love,  companion  and  friend :  fame  et  amie. 

Unfortunately  the  later  studies  of  Adler  along  these  lines, 
starting  with  — 505 —  "Sovereignty  in  Chretien's  Yvain,"  PMLA, 
LXII  (1947),  281-305,  stress  the  ideological  side  of  the  problem 
so  much  that  they  cannot  be  discussed  here  as  studies  of  com- 
position; they  neglect  the  style  problem  entirely.  This  type  of 
study,  however,  has  found  a  critical,  bibliographical  apprecia- 
tion in  H.  HATZFELD  —506—  "Esthetic  Criticism  applied  to 
Medieval  Romance  Literature,"  RPh,  II  (1948),  305-27.  WlN- 
throp  H.  RICE  —507—  "The  Stylistic  Structure  of  Villon's 
Ballades,"  Sy,  III  (1949),  105-113,  stresses  the  point  that  the 
third  strophe  of  the  ballads  is  always  personal,  lyrical,  pictur- 
esque and  specific,  and  reveals  the  modern  feeling  of  Villon ;  the 
first  two  strophes  remain  general.  This  technique,  says  Rice,  is 
comparable  to  that  of  Jose  Maria  de  Heredia.  L.  F.  BENE- 
DETTO —508—  "L'art  de  Marco  Polo,"  MHoe,  313-326,  sketches 
very  pertinently  the  poetical  realism  of  the  explorer  style  and 
the  structural  clumsiness  of  "Le  livre  des  merveilles  du  monde." 

2.     Sixteenth  and  Seventeenth  Centuries 

For  the  post-medieval  centuries  which  are  the  object  of  many 
more  books  and  articles,  the  borderline  between  ideological  and 
formal  studies  of  structure  must  be  carefully  kept  in  mind,  else 
we  should  be  lost  in  the  superabundance  of  general  critical  lit- 
erary studies.  Just  as  we  reached  in  an  earlier  chapter  the 
border  between  stylistically  and  grammatically  informed  syntax, 
so  we  are  reaching  now  the  cross  road  which  may  lead  either  to 
history  of  ideas  or  to  general  aesthetics.    Sometimes,  however* 


88  Style  Transcending  Language  509-515 

those  theoretical  studies  favored  particularly  in  France  and  gen- 
erally called  L'esthetique  de  .  .  .,  or  Le  gout  de  .  .  .,  contain  a 
wealth  of  particular,  practical,  stylistic-structural  information. 
Watching  out  for  these  elements  we  may  mention:  L.  WEN- 
CeLIUS  — 509 —  L'esthetique  de  Calvin  (Paris:  Fischbacher, 
1937) ,  an  excellent  study  of  Calvin's  aesthetical  preoccupations, 
considering  largely  his  style  (pp.  344,-373).  Pierre  VILLEY 
— 510 —  Les  sources  et  V  evolution  des  essais  de  Montaigne 
(Paris:  Hachette,  1908),  has  good  remarks  on  these  "vastes 
tableaux  qui  debordent  de  sensations,  d'impressions  et  de  senti- 
ments." He  calls  the  Essais  "des  reflexions  pratiques,  des  cita- 
tions et  des  exemples  empruntes,  des  experiences  et  des  impres- 
sions personnelles"  which  make  "une  causerie  vivante,"  because 

Les  idees  .  .  .  s'enchainent  aisement.  .  .  .  Quand  elles  s'eloignent 
du  sujet,  c'est  par  degres  insensibles.  On  est  hors  du  propos 
avant  de  s'en  etre  apercu.  .  .  .  Comme  dans  la  conversation,  le 
sujet — c'est  un  theme  ou  exercer  sa  reflexion,  une  amorce  pour 
mettre  1'  esprit  en  verve. 

Joseph  VIANEY  —511—  "Montaigne  conteur,"  MH,  200-212, 
proves  by  single  anecdotes  retold  by  Montaigne,  how  he  surpasses 
in  concreteness  and  striking  features  his  respective  sources,  Livy, 
Amyot-Plutarch,  Lopez  de  Gomara  and  Justus  Lipsius. 

An  introductory  study  for  the  understanding  of  the  literary 
art  of  Pascal,  with  many  types  of  expressions  considered,  is  the 
brilliant  little  work  by  Gabriel  BRUNET  —512—  "Pascal 
poete,"  MF  (May-June  1923),  577-609,  where  among  other 
things  it  is  said:  "^imagination  happee  chancelle  sous  le  poids 
d'idees  et  de  reves."  More  extensive  remarks  on  Pascal's  art  are 
found  in  the  chapter  "La  langue  et  le  style  biblique"  (pp.  290- 
374)  of  J.  LHERMET  —513—  Pascal  et  la  Bible  (Paris:  Vrin, 
1931),  and  Pascal's  aesthetics  is  appraised  by  J.  LACOUR 
—514—  "L'esthetique  de  Pascal,"  F,  Suppl.  Litt.  (July  7,  1923) . 
A.  MATIVA  —515—  "Pascal  ecrivain,"  LR,  IV  (1950),  191- 
216,  is  not  capable  of  really  grasping  the  "superhuman"  style  of 
Pascal.  It  falls  asunder  for  him  in  different  sub-styles,  but  one 
of  Mativa's  formulas  comes  close  to  the  truth : 

Pascal  .  .  .  ecrivain,  se  plaisait  .  .  .  comme  les  mathematiciens, 
a  faire  saillir  I'ossature  de  Targument  mais  il  y  mettait  de  la  dis- 
cretion et  de  la  musique. 

Approaches  to  the  art  of  Moliere  were  made  in  Hanns  HEISS 


516-524  France  89 

— 516 — Moliere  (Leipzig:  Teubner,  1929).  Hanns  Heiss  points 
out  the  poet's  tendency  to  repetition,  aiming  at  the  comic  or  the 
characteristic;  his  witty  humor  in  the  word-formation,  in  the 
rhythm,  in  the  abrupt  expression;  the  harmony  between  a  dra- 
matic character  and  his  speech;  the  light  shed  on  principal 
characters  by  means  of  mockery  and  mimicry;  the  scintillating 
dialogues  of  rivals,  with  invitations  to  similar  responses  based 
on  analogous  constructions ;  the  manner  in  which  certain  verbal 
expressions  reflect  Moliere's  view  of  the  world  (droite  raison. 
juste  nature)  ;  finally  the  motley  language,  mutilated  and  de- 
generated for  ironic  purposes.  But  Heiss  does  not  give  enough 
on  the  art  of  structure,  and  must  be  supplemented  by  M.  RU- 
DOLPH — 517 —  Der  Aufbau  der  Komodien  bei  Moliere.  Szenen- 
fuhrung  und  Handlung,  Diss.  Leipzig,  1928.  Similarly,  the 
stylistic  material  in  Karl  VOSSLER  — 518 —  Jean  Racine 
(Munchen:  Hueber,  1926,  second  edition  1949),  finds  its  struc- 
tural supplementation  in  Carl  STEINWEG  — 519 —  Racine. 
Kompositionsstudien  (Halle:  Niemeyer,  1909). 

The  French  have  continued  Taine's  approach  to  La  Fontaine 
by  studying  the  latter's  art  with  Ferdinand  GOHIN  — 520 — 
Uart  de  La  Fontaine  dans  ses  fables  (Paris:  Gamier,  1929). 
This  study  has  been  discussed  extensively  by  K.  KOZESNIK 
— 521 —  "Kunstproblem  und  Moral  in  La  Fontaines  Fabeln," 
ZFS,  LVI  (1932),  479-90.  Le  corbeau  et  le  renard,  analyzed 
by  Maurice  GRAMMONT  according1  to  his  ingenious  metrical 
method,  however,  demonstrates  with  greater  sovereignty 
—522—  "Uart  de  La  Fontaine,"  FM,  I  (1933),  97-115. 

Sometimes  an  apparently  meaningless  title  contains  a  central 
stylistic  problem.  This  holds  true  for  the  master  study  of 
Theophil  SPOERRI  —523—  "Trieb  und  Geist  bei  Racine," 
ANS,  CLXIII  (1933),  60-80.  E.  MERIAN-GENAST,  on  the 
other  hand,  although  calling  his  study  — 524 —  "Die  Kunst  Ra- 
tines," NS,  XL  (1932),  135-157,  concentrates  only  on  his  tra- 
gedy's springing  from  hypocrisy — Racine's  supposed  principle 
of  art.    The  real  principle  of  Racine's  art,  i.e. 

mettre  au  meme  niveau  les  deux  mondes,  celui  de  l'homme  de  la 
vocation,  de  la  chose  publique,  et  celui  de  la  femme,  de  la  com- 
munion intime,  de  la  vie  privee, 

seems  rather  to  have  been  found  in  his  rhythm,  expressing  the 
device    vivre   ou   regner,    according   to    Theophil    SPOERRI 


90  Style  Transcending  Language  525-533 

—525—  "Le  rythme  tragique,"  T,  III  (1945),  161-184.  This 
rhythm  is  at  the  same  time  Racine's  legacy  to  future  generations 
of  true  French  poetry.  Wilhelm  WILLIGE  —526—  "Die  Kunst 
Ratines,"  GRM,  XXIX  (194,1),  219-233,  is  a  summary  of  things 
known  but  brings  an  especial  appreciation  of  Berenice  and 
hints  to  adequate  translations  (see  nos.  299,  1529). 

Too  much  retelling  is  the  weak  spot  in  a  typical  structure 
study  like  Rosemarie  BURKHART  — 527 —  Die  Kunst  des 
Masses  in  Mme  de  Lafayettes  'Princesse  de  Cleves'  (Bonn: 
Rohrscheid,  1932).  This  lengthy  study  appears  transformed  into 
a  relieving  abridgment  in  Jean  FABRE  — 528 —  "L'art  de 
Fanalyse  dans  La  Princesse  de  Cleves/'  FLSM  (1945),  261-306 
(no.  436).  Fabre  explains  that  this  novel  is  of  the  very  art  of 
Racine:  no  descriptions,  no  detailed  history;  only  aristocratic 
atmosphere  and  aristocratic  characters;  not  a  single  emotional 
element.  The  passions  are  translated  into  a  language  of  intel- 
lectuality exactly  as  is  the  case  in  the  romans  precieux.  The  con- 
versations are  psychological  dramas;  a  type  of  interior  mono- 
logue and  long  passages  of  style  indirect  dominate  the  presenta- 
tion. 

As  was  mentioned  above,  this  condensed  type  of  presentation 
belongs  to  the  best  French  tradition.  This  may  be  seen  also 
in  GUSTAVE  MICHAUT  —529—  "L'art  de  la  Bruyere,"  from  his 
book  on  La  Bruyere  (Paris:  Boivin,  1936),  230-255.  Michaut 
dwells  on  the  author's  "emportements  subits,"  "aveux  involon- 
taires,"  his  "proportions,"  his  "images  suggerees,"  his  "inat- 
tendu,"  and  other  devices.  An  effort  to  be  complete  in  the 
enumeration  of  devices  leads  for  the  most  part  to  a  dry  tabula- 
tion which  seems  an  involuntary  parody  of  the  task  intended. 
How  readily  the  French  avoid  this  may  be  seen  in  their  type  of 
lectures  on  style  and  structure,  e.g.  in  A.  FEUGERE's  — 530 — 
"La  predication  de  Bossuet,"  RCC  (May  15,  1937),  236-48,  and 
_531—  "Le  predication  de  Bourdaloue,"  lb.  (1937),  pp.  455-67. 
J,  VIANEY  —532—  "L'eloquence  de  Bossuet,"  RCC,  XXX 
(March  1929),  607-620,  lays  stress  on  "L'art  d'appeler  et  de 
retenir  l'attention"  by  changing  between  delicacy  and  shock, 
paradox  and  objectivity,  lyrical  effects  and  maxims,  descrip- 
tions and  comparisons.  Oscar  GROSHEINTZ  — 533 —  Ues- 
thetique  oratoire  de  Bossuet,  Diss.  Zurich,  1914,  is  still  bound  to 
the  "development"  of  a  dynamic  Bossuet  from  overdone  realism 
and  preciosity  to  simplicity,  appropriateness,  imagination,  no- 


534-537  France  91 

bility  and  magnificence.  Speaking  about  short-comings  and 
qualities,  Grosheintz  stresses  in  a  final  static  picture  epithet  and 
rythmical  lyricism  as  the  striking  elements  of  Bossuet's  style 
(see  no.  1527). 

Aiming  at  an  explanation  of  "La  genese  des  maximes,"  RHLF, 
XXXVIII  (1932),  481-499,  and  XXXIX  (1933),  17-37,  H.  A. 
GRUBBS  —534—  "The  originality  of  La  Rochefoucauld's 
Maxims,"  RHLF,  XXXV  (1929),  18-59,  stresses  their  concise- 
ness vis-a-vis  Latin  and  Spanish  sources,  which  are  more  prolix 
and  vague. 

Finally  there  are  books  on  the  seventeenth  century  which  are 
f  ullfledged  studies  of  an  author's  art,  although  their  titles  do  not 
reveal  this  fact.  They  must  be  discovered  by  chance.  One  of 
the  most  striking  examples  is  Albert  CHfiREL  — 535 —  Fenelon 
ou  la  religion  du  pur  amour  (Paris:  Denoel,  1934).  Cherel  ex- 
plains that  the  style  of  Telemaque  betrays  line  by  line  the  half 
quietistic  mysticism  of  the  Archbishop  of  CambraL  "Telemaque 
c'est  dans  le  style  .  . .  une  transposition  litteraire  du  Pur  Amour" 
(p.  166),  and  Cherel  proves  his  point  by  excellent  examples:  the 
precepteur  Fenelon-Minerve  teaches  the  Dauphin-Telemaque  the 
duties  of  a  king  in  the  language  of  Mme  Guyon :  "Les  bons  rois 
ne  veulent  plus  rien ;  ils  ont  tout  sans  rien  avoir.  .  .  .  Une  meme 
felicite  fait  comme  un  flux  et  reflux  dans  ces  ames  unies"  (p. 
171) .  Ely  CARCASSONNE  —536—  "L'ecrivain  et  1'homme  de 
gout,"  in  his  Etat  present  des  travaux  sur  Fenelon  (Paris :  Belles 
Lettres,  1939) ,  73-81,  encourages  a  proper  style  study  on  Fenelon 
with  the  words :  "Le  style  de  Fenelon  sans  etre  'artiste*  prete  a 
1'analyse,  mais  se  derobe  aux  distinctions  tranchees." 

3.    Eighteenth  Century 

Studies  on  the  Enlightenment  are  usually  so  much  concerned 
with  ideas  that  we  still  lack  studies  on  the  art  of  its  authors. 
Nevertheless  the  aesthetics  of  Voltaire  was  treated  by  Raymond 
NAVES  under  the  title  — 537 —  Le  gout  de  Voltaire  (Paris: 
Gamier,  1939).  This  voluminous  and  important  book  of  566 
pages  is  primarily  interested  in  theoretical  questions,  but  con- 
siders also  the  practical  character  of  Voltaire's  art:  elegance, 
equilibre,  controle  eloign^  d'enthousiasme,  perfection,  sere- 
nite,  simplicity,  finesse,  aisance,  manque  de  sublime,  harmonie, 
convenance,  fluidite,  poesie  de  V esprit  par  la  justesse  et  la 
purete  du  vocabulaire   (p.  496),  legerete,  tact,  choix,  intimite, 


92  Style  Transcending  Language  538-542 

bienseance  mondaine,  proportion.  M.  JOSEPHSON  — 538 — 
"The  Technique  of  Voltaire,"  NR  (Dec.  31,  1931),  196-197,  un- 
fortunately is  only  a  short  column,  Georges  ASCOLI  — 539 — 
"Voltaire.  L/art  du  conteur,"  RCC,  XXVI2  (1925),  619-626, 
underlines  as  decisive  traits  in  Voltaire's  style:  vivacite  pittor- 
esque,  narration  leste  et  piquante  avec  ses  jeux  de  sons,  les  repe- 
titions de  tournures  et  de  mots,  valeur  scenique,  phrase  a  sur- 
prise (3ee  no.  1587).  Abbe  Prevost's  art  was  the  subject  of  a 
study  by  J.  HANKISS  —540—  "Secrets  d'atelier  de  1'abbe  Pre- 
vost,"  AMP,  II  (1933),  113-135. 

Since  art  is  conceived  as  expression,  we  must  not  overlook 
studies  which  are  called  psychological,  but  are  in  reality  studies 
on  the  artefact  itself.  This  holds  particularly  true  for  Robert 
OSMONT  —541—  "Contribution  a  l'etude  psychologique  des 
reveries  du  promeneur  solitaire,  la  vie  du  souvenir,  le  rythme 
lyrique,"  AJJR,  XXIII  (1934),  121-135.  Osmont  with  the  most 
subtle  philological  analysis  seizes  all  possible  sides  of  Rousseau's 
art 

soit  qu'il  ecrive  dans  une  eloquence  nerveuse  iles  formules  ob- 
sedantes  de  son  anxiete,  soit  qu'il  berce  sa  douleur  dans  ces  phrases 
qui  ressemblent  a  des  prieres,  soit  qu'il  exprime  par  des  rythmes 
subtils  les  oscillations  de  sa  reverie,  il  retrouve  dans  la  conscience 
de  son  art,  sa  maitrise  entiere,  et,  tenant  nos  ames  captives  comme 
par  la  musique,  il  agite  en  elles  ce  mouvement  alterne  de  force  et 
de  langueur  qui  etait  pour  lui,  plus  que  pour  tout  autre,  la  loi  de 
la  vie   (p.  134-135). 

4.     Nineteenth  Century 
a)     Empire,  Romanticism,  Early  Realism 

The  literary  art  studies  increase  in  proportion  as  literature 
itself  becomes  art-conscious  and  drives  at  the  so-called  art  pour 
Vart.  It  goes  without  saying  that  an  author  who  himself 
watches  very  consciously  the  art  elements  which  he  uses  almost 
invites  the  investigator  to  discover  and  to  analyze  him*  There- 
fore in  the  "Waste  Land,"  as  far  as  simplicity  is  concerned,  be- 
tween Napoleon  Bonaparte  and  St.  John  Perse,  the  explorer  of 
literary  art  finds  a  fertile  hunting  ground.  Guy  DESGRANGES 
—542—  "La  Rhetorique  Napoleonienne,"  RR,  XXXIX  (1948), 
208-228,  makes  an  inquiry  into  the  histrionic  stylization  of  Na- 
poleon's Proclamations  as  the  oratorical-concise  work  of  a  clever 
demagogue.    This  fashion  is  a  process  of  growth  and  progress 


543-645  France  93 

which  also  reveals  the  Emperor's  "lente  maturation  intellec- 
tuelle"  as  a  conscious  artist.  "L'appel  a  la  gloire  est  une  piece 
maitresse  de  sa  technique."  With  simple  schemes  of  passe- 
present-futur  he  arouses  passion,  and  with  "des  mots  d'une 
noblesse  pseudo-classique"  he  creates  myths  (fer,  ^amantes, 
lauriers,  travaux,  lustres).  A  quite  normal  syntax  is  used  for  a 
style  of  imperatoria  brevitas.  By  a  timid  use  of  concrete  evoca- 
tions, by  a  drastic  heaping  up  of  proper  names,  and  the  repeti- 
tion of  mots-clefs  (gloire,  destinee)  as  well  as  cliches  (courir  a/ux 
armes,  vos  foyers,  vos  concitoyens)  he  bolsters  up  his  "style 
coupe,  hache,  saccade,"  mixed  with  "rythmes  binaires"  and  "ter- 
naires."  Napoleon's  "art  de  la  proclamation' '  with  its  military 
laconism  is  the  prototype  of  the  literary  style  imperial. 

Problems  of  stylistic  structure  will  necessarily  arise  when- 
ever there  is  at  issue  a  monograph  on  a  work  and  not  on  an 
author.  Until  these  monographs  are  put  on  a  strictly  stylistic 
basis,  one  must  be  satisfied  with  scattered  remarks  along  this 
line,  such  as  those  which  occur  in  Henri  GUILLEMIN  — 543 — 
Le  Jocelyn  de  Lamartine.  Etude  historique  et  critique  (Paris: 
Boivin,  1947).  What  interests  us  most  is  Part  IV,  chapter  one: 
"L'art  dans  Jocelyn,"  p.  621-660.  There  are  good  remarks  on 
versification  and  stylistic  corrections.  But  the  author  believes 
he  has  to  indict  Lamartine  for  lack  of  technical  virtuosity,  so 
that  his  conclusions  are  awkwardly  timid :  "D'une  suite  de  notes 
simples  .  .  .  nait  quand  meme  un  chant  sans  pareil." 

LlOU  KIN  LING  — 544 —  Etude  sur  Vart  de  V.  Hugo  dans  'La 
Fin  de  Satan*  (Paris:  Nizet  et  Bastard,  1939),  works  out  the 
unity  of  this  late  epic  of  Victor  Hugo,  finding  ramifications  of 
the  motif  in  images,  symbols,  metamorphoses,  rhythm,  rhyme  and 
euphony,  with  stress  on  the  "metaphore-maxime" :  spectre  cre- 
puscule,  oiseaux  aquilons,  siecles  monstres.  The  correct  listings 
are  done  without  real  taste;  the  comparison  of  Hugo's  galima- 
tias with  Dante  is  particularly  tasteless.  Walter  Erich  SPIE- 
GELBERG  approaches  the  poetry  of  Victor  Hugo  with  one  of 
the  famous  principles  of  art  stressed  by  Heinrich  Wolfflin 
— 545 —  Einheit  und  Vielheit  bei  Victor  Hugo,  Diss.  Konigsberg, 
1937.  He  has  made  an  attempt  to  grasp  Hugo's  propensity  to 
create  unities  which  degenerate  into  multiplicity  just  as  "la 
bataille  degenere  en  combat,  se  particularise  et  s'eparpille  en 
d'innombrables  f  aits  de  details,"  as  Hugo  says  in  Les  Miserables. 
Hugo  therefore  feels  obliged  to  create  artificial  monster  indi- 


94  Style  Transcending  Language  546-551 

viduals  to  preserve  unity  like  "cette  cavalerie  .  .  .  belier  de 
bronce  .  .  .  compacte  et  serree,  masse,  monstre  .  .  .  une  ame" 
(p.  33). 

A  thorough  analysis  of  Alfred  de  Vigny's  narrative  art  can 
be  found  in  A.  SCHWEITZER  —546—  Die  Darstellungskunst 
in  A.  de  Vignys  historischem  Roman  Cinq  Mars,  Diss.  Mun- 
ster,  1937.  Anneliese  JUNKERSDORFF  —547—  Aufbau 
und  Stil  der  Erzahlungen  Vignys,  ARP,  vol.  39  (Munster,  1936) , 
restricts  her  hodge  podge  observations  to  suspense  through  mys- 
terious situations,  leitmotifs,  retardations,  reflexive  construc- 
tions replacing  passive  expressions,  repetitions  of  words,  pale 
metaphors,  picturesque  imperfects,  irony  and  satire.  She  cannot 
organize  her  chaos.  Known  for  his  interest  in  literary  art,  E. 
ZYROMSKI  discusses  —548—  "La  methode  poetique  d'A.  de 
Vigny,"  in  MA,  431-443.  This  method  combines  condensation, 
symbolism  and  musicality. 

C.  CORDIE  — 549 —  SulV  arte  delta  Chartreuse  de  Parme 
(Firenze:  La  Nuova  Italia,  1936),  or  CN,  VIII  (1936),  160-181, 
and  305-338,  shows  the  artistic  refinement  required  for  this  type 
of  study.  Cordie  unravels  action,  adventure,  love  and  intrigue, 
epic  and  reverie,  heaviness  and  lightness  of  tones  in  Stendhal's 
maze  of  interwoven  motifs.  He  lays  bare  the  atmosphere  of 
harmony  and  catharsis  following  passions  and  troubles ;  persons 
are  arranged  according  to  a  system  of  concentric  circles  with 
arabesques  of  description  and  emotions  of  horror,  humor,  and 
tenderness.  Cordie  hints  at  Stendhal's  artistic  climate,  which 
is  never  stifled  by  the  blunt  realism  of  murder,  poisoning,  pros- 
titution and  embezzlement,  because  crime  is  overshadowed  by 
the  fascination  of  youth,  the  attraction  of  maturity,  the  bewitch- 
ing air  of  the  court  and  drawing  room,  and  by  idyllic  nature. 
David  JAMES  — 550 —  "The  harmonious  structure  of  La  Char- 
treuse de  Parme,"  FR,  XXIV  (1950),  119-124,  is  an  immature 
attempt  to  prove  that  Stendhal  had  discovered  the  leitmotif  and 
the  motif-combinations  in  their  strict  meaning  for  literary 
"symphonies"  before  Richard  Wagner  discovered  them  for  music 
(see  no.  1531).  H.  U.  FOREST  — 551 —  L'estketique  du  roman 
balzacien  (Paris:  Presses  universitaires,  1950),  tries  to  show 
that  Balzac  constructs  his  novels  not  according  to  traditional 
recettes,  but  according  to  the  principle  of  casting  ideas  into  liv^ 
ing  characters  by  whose  consequent  reactions  to  life  there  i3 
launched  and  developed  an  intricate  action  not  exactly  foreseen 


552-554  France  95 

in  the  ideological  blueprint  of  the  respective  novels   (see  nos. 
1532-33). 

Lucien  REFORT,  author  of  the  study  on  the  language  of 
Michelet  (no.  269),  has  completed  this  study  with  the  book 
— 552 —  L'art  de  Michelet  dans  son  oeuvre  historique  (Paris: 
Champion,  1923).  In  this  work  Refort  undertakes  to  embrace 
all  that  which  cannot  be  absorbed  in  grammatical  or  psycho- 
logical categories;  a  large  number  of  stylistic  traits  typical  of 
Michelet  are  put  into  a  kind  of  order  under  somewhat  awkward 
titles:  I'observateur,  le  poete,  le  peintre,  moule  syntaxique.  Re- 
sorting to  a  new  subdivision  not  very  enlightening  either,  M. 
Refort  speaks  of  humour,  plaisanterie,  description,  symbolisme, 
obsession  du  rythme,  etc.  Yves  LE  HIR  — 553 —  Lamennais 
ecrivain  (Paris:  Colin,  1948),  is  a  style  study  in  the  strictest 
sense  of  the  word,  worked  out  according  to  the  syntactical 
methods  of  Charles  Bruneau,  Marcel  Cressot,  and  Gilbert  Mayer. 
Yet  a  loftier  viewpoint  that  scoffs  at  stylistics  and  subdivisions  of 
figures  of  speech  (p.  446)  is  employed  in  an  effort  to  give  the  very 
careful  study  a  nucleus  in  Lamennais'  visionary  temperament, 
which  produced  original  imagery  definitely  nourished  by  the  Bible. 
All  the  expression  forms  are  stressed  as  an  interior  necessity  and 
urge  of  this  religious  and  social  enthusiast.  Le  Hir  is  well  in- 
formed also  about  the  modern  style  studies  of  Demorest,  P.  Nar- 
din,  L.  Refort.  His  grammatical  analysis  of  the  means  of  expres- 
sion used  by  Lamennais  leads  from  the  factual  levels  to  those  of 
conscious  artistry.  The  study  then  centers  around  the  symbols. 
Finally  the  problems  of  antithesis,  rhythm  and  imagery  bring  the 
long  thesis  of  475  pages  to  a  close,  with  a  dynamic  chapter  on  Le 
travail  du  style.  This  dissertation,  certainly  one  of  the  best 
contributions  to  style  studies  by  the  French  school,  ranks  with 
Cressot's  study  on  Huysmans  and  is  more  comprehensive. 

b.    Symbolism  and  Naturalism 

With  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  catch- 
word for  stirring  investigation  in  literary  art  actually  has  been 
and  will  be  "originality."  This  is  quite  clear  in  the  work  of 
Robert  VIVIER  — 554 —  Uoriginalite  de  Baudelaire  (Paris: 
Renaissance  du  livre,  1926) .  Vivier  contends  that  the  secret  of 
the  art  of  Les  Fleurs  du  mat  is  not  hidden  in  the  discovery  of 
new  methods  of  expression,  but  in  the  individual  blending  of  the 
most  varied  experiences  of  style  that  Baudelaire  owed  to  his 


96  Style  Transcending  Language  555-560 

personal  literary  culture.  Vivier's  work  embraces  three  sec- 
tions: 1.  Voeuvre,  a  concept  in  certain  respects  equivalent  to 
"Stylistic  cosmos,"  2.  Les  sources,  that  is  the  existence,  before 
Baudelaire,  of  basic  conceptions  of  "Baudelairian"  expressive 
methods,  3.  Uoriginalite  de  Baudelaire,  the  process  of  appropria- 
tion and  digestion  of  the  literary  traditions  by  means  of  selec- 
tion (choix),  order  (architecture),  "engraving"  (travail  du 
style),  and  effective  coloring  of  traditional  good  with  the  pur- 
pose of  giving  the  exact  expression  of  sentiments  (harmonie 
verbale).  It  is  true  that  this  book  is  at  times  too  excessively 
systematic,  but  the  method  used  and  the  lists  of  Baudelairian  ex- 
pressions established  give  the  study  great  importance. 

Andr£  GUEX  — 555 —  Art  Baudelairien  (Lausanne:  F. 
Rouge,  1937) ,  centers  his  analysis  around  fundamental  diabolic- 
divine  antitheses,  in  titles,  composition,  rhyme,  metaphors  and 
plastic  images  for  the  supernatural,  in  symmetries  and  repeti- 
tions, with  the  result  that  "II  y  a  autre  chose  peut-etre,  mais  il  y 
a  certainement  cela  qui  est  tres  profond  et  tres  important"  (p. 
19) .  The  book  is  the  artistic  parallel  to  Jean  Massin,  Baudelaire 
entre  Dieu  et  Satan  (Paris:  Juliard,  1945). 

Marcel  FRANQON  —556—  "L'unite  des  Fleurs  du  Mai," 
PMLA,  LX  (1945) ,  1130-1137,  discovers  a  truly  interior,  organic, 
but  not  logical  structure  behind  the  exterior  arrangement  as  de- 
fended by  Albert  FEUILLERAT  —557a—  "^architecture  des 
Fleurs  du  Mai,"  SFDY,  (1941),  121-230,  and  earlier  by  Marcel 
A.  Ruff  — 557b —  "Sur  1' architecture  des  'Fleurs  du  MaT," 
RHLF,  XXXVII  (1930),  1-30.  Much  more  theoretical  is  the 
bulky  and  vague  thesis  of  AndrS  FERRAN  — 558 —  L'esthetique 
de  Baudelaire  (Paris:  Hachette,  1933),  the  generalizations  of 
G.  POLVERINI  — 559—  Uestetica  di  Ch.  Baudelaire  (Bari: 
Laterza,  1943) ,  and  the  short  remarks  of  LiNA  AJELLO  — 560 — 
La  poetique  de  Baudelaire  (Palermo:  Pezzino,  1947).  Miss 
Ajello  links  the  theory  which  is  found  in  the  famous  Salon  18^6 
to  the  practice  of  Correspondances  and  shows  that  the  artistic 
ideal  of  Baudelaire  inspired  by  Delacroix  is  colorfulness,  which, 
transferred  to  the  creative  imagination  of  the  poet,  must  result 
in  a  picturesque  synaesthesia.  For  further  items  see  Henri 
Peyre,  Connaissance  de  Baudelaire  (Paris:  Corti,  1951). 

Since  the  French  books  entitled  "The  Esthetics  of  .  .  ."  gen- 
erally do  not  contain  a  practical  structure  analysis  at  all,  but 
only  an  account  of  an  author's  theoretical  ideas  E.  L.  FERRfiRE 


561-565  France  97 

— 561 —  Uesthetique  de  G.  Flaubert  (Paris:  Conard,  1913),  is  a 
glorious  exception.  Ferrere  actually  establishes  a  close  relation- 
ship between  the  "Will"  of  the  writer  as  the  aesthetic  aspect  of 
his  theoretical  "knowledge,"  and  the  practical  aspect  of  his  artis- 
tic realization — in  other  words  between  the  artistic  intention  and 
its  fulfillment.  With  Ferrere,  however,  because  the  realizations 
are  not  given  systematically,  we  still  are  left  in  vagueness  and 
uncertainty.  These  faults  are  less  present  in  the  very  interest- 
ing, though  incomplete  synthesis  of  Flaubert's  style  as  treated 
in  the  well-known  book  of  Albert  THIBAUDET  —562—  Gus~ 
tave  Flaubert  (Paris:  Plon,  1922).  There  are  profound  artistic 
insights  to  be  found  on  pp.  245-323,  which  contain  the  most  strik- 
ing and  convincing  remarks  on  Flaubert's  imagery,  use  of 
tenses,  style  indirect  libre,  and  interior  onomatopoetic  character 
of  the  sentence,  which  fits  the  objects  and  events  like  a  garment. 
Thibaudet's  pages  will  remain  a  classical  synthesis  of  Flaubert's 
style.  Irreproachable  descriptive  monographs  like  the  one  by 
Elizabeth  FRANKE  — 563 —  Flauberts  'TJn  coeur  simple'  als 
Kunstwerk,  Diss.  Frankfurt,  1928,  are  most  helpful,  naive  though 
they  may  be. 

Madeleine  GROUNAUER  —564—  "Notes  en  vue  d'une  etude 
sur  la  structure  de  'Madame  Bovary',"  T,  III  (1945),  280-299, 
offers  pertinent  remarks  on  structure.  The  progress  of  the 
action  is  chronological,  but  this  is  so  ingeniously  veiled  that  if 
one  were  to  count  the  camouflaged  time  of  eight  years,  one 
would  find  the  description  of  about  twenty  days  only.  Time, 
particularly  night,  is  passing  between  the  chapters,  each  of 
which  vaguely  forecasts  the  following.  When  the  voices  of  men 
are  silent,  the  landscape  speaks.  All  effects  are  meticulously 
prepared,  but  the  descriptions  and  dialogues  are  fragmentary. 
The  ideal  center  is  Mme  Bovary  with  her  illusions,  to  which  is 
subordinated  the  grouping  of  the  events.  A  vague  au-deld — 
God,  fate,  destiny — invades  this  realistic  novel  in  the  form  of 
the  murmuring  of  the  beeches  as  well  as  the  sound  of  the  Angelus 
and  the  lesson  of  the  catechism.  The  "impassibility"  of  the 
author  is  not  free  from  a  bitter  humor  and  moral  criticism.  "Sur 
Mme  Bovary  regne  un  dieu  createur  dont  les  plus  belles  appari- 
tions sont  humaines." 

Just  as  in  Germany  the  highly  personal  art  of  the  Goncourt 
Brothers  brought  about  the  work  of  G.  Losch  (no.  287),  so  in 
France  it  has  produced  the  study  by  Pierre  SAB ATIER  — 565 — 


98  Style  Transcending  Language  566-570 

L'esthetique  des  Goncourts  (Paris:  Hachette,  1920).  The  expo- 
sition on  the  style  proper,  the  ecriture  artiste  of  the  Goncourts 
takes  only  the  very  small  space  of  twenty-six  pages  of  Sabatier's 
work,  while  six  hundred  pages  are  dedicated  to  the  psychological 
explanation  of  their  art,  to  their  aesthetic  theory,  to  their  ap- 
plied artistic  criticism  and  the  influence  produced  by  aesthetics 
on  the  Goncourts.  This  book,  in  spite  of  its  verbosity  and  pro- 
lixity, aptly  supplements  Losch's  analysis  of  the  syntax  of  the 
Goncourts.  The  appearance  of  impressionistic  style  in  this  work 
finds  its  explanation  in  the  education,  in  the  artistic  culture  and 
the  mentality  of  the  Goncourts,  as  well  as  in  the  neurosis  of  the 
age.  Sabatier  offers  excellent  examples  of  several  characteristics 
of  composition,  on  the  melancholy  imperfect,  on  the  transposition 
d'art,  based  on  the  overwhelming  gift  of  vision  and  on  impres- 
sionism as  the  style  of  sensation. 

Fernand  DOUCET  — 566 —  L'esthetique  d'Emile  Zola  et  son 
application  a  la  critique,  Diss.,  Groningen:  Den  Haag,  1923,  is 
a  rather  historical  study  urging  the  scientist's  attitude  in  conceal- 
ing a  warm  personality  under  a  cold  style.  The  merit  of  pioneer- 
ing in  structure  studies  will  always  remain  with  Henri  MASSIS 
— 567 —  Comment  Emile  Zola  composait  ses  romans  (Paris: 
Charpentier,  1906) .  He  was  the  first  to  analyze  Zola's  creation, 
although  mostly  by  a  documentary  approach.  One  of  the  rare 
elucidations  of  the  art  of  a  writer  by  that  of  a  sculptor  comes 
from  Mireille  GARCf A  DE  FRANCA  —568 —  Zola  y  Rodin. 
Dos  formas  de  una  misma  idea  (La  Habana:  Ucar,  1946),  con- 
centrating on  the  parallel  rendering  of  every-day  work,  solitude, 
suffering,  love  and  women.  Carl  W.  KRUMBHOLZ  — 569— 
Emile  Zolas  Roman  'L'oeuvre'  als  Kunstwerk,  ARP,  vol.  31 
(Minister,  1933),  arranges  the  material  according  to  the  differ- 
ent motif-groups  (youth,  love,  madness,  death),  according  to 
the  localization  of  action  (plein  air,  cite)  or  the  indications  of 
time  (six  semaines  plus  tard,  quatre  heures  sonnerent,  le  15  max) , 
and  makes  on  the  whole  a  close  copy  of  what  Oscar  WALZEL — 
as  far  as  leitmotifs  are  concerned — had  done  for  another  Zola 
novel  — 570 —  Une  page  d'amour.  Handbuch  der  Literaturwis- 
senschaft,  vol.  I:  Gehalt  und  Gestalt  (Berlin-Neubabelsberg, 
1923) ,  362-363.  It  seems  that  a  prerequisite  for  pertinent  studies 
in  the  total  art  of  an  author  is  that  the  investigator  have  an  ar- 
tistic temperament  himself.  This  would  explain  the  satisfaction 
derived  from  reading  essays  of  the  type  written  by  gens  de  let- 


571-576  France  99 

tres.  Thus  E.  DROUGARD  dedicated  a  few  pages  to  — 571— 
"L'art  de  Villiers  de  risle-Adam"  GrR,  CXLII  (1933),  100-112, 
to  work  out  his  recasting  of  a  romantic  theme  (Vera)  into  a 
classic  pattern. 

The  studies  on  Rimbaud  generally  are  more  of  an  attempt  to 
decipher  his  meaning  than  to  appreciate  his  art.  But  how  much 
both  approaches  coincide  in  hermetic  texts  may  be  seen  from 
the  books  of  Wallace  FOWLIE  — 572 —  Rimbaud  (New  York: 
New  Directions,  1946),  and  Jacques  GENGOUX  —573—  La 
symbolique  de  Rimbaud,  le  systeme,  ses  sources  (Paris:  La  Co- 
lombe,  1947). 

Helen  TRUDGIAN  — 574 —  L'esthetique  de  J.-K.  Huysmans 
(Paris:  Conard,  1933),  finds  that  the  stylistic  novelty  of  Huys- 
mans consists  in  the  discovery  of  an  harmonious  relation  between 
physiological  ugliness  and  psychological  beauty  as  occurring  in 
the  sufferings  of  the  saints  and  prototypically  rendered  in  Sainte 
Lydwine  de  Schiedam.  Pierre  Leon  GAUTIER  — 575 —  Jean 
Lorrain,  la  vie,  Voeuvre  et  l'art  d'un  pessiwAste  a  la  fin  du  XIXe 
siecle,  These  (Paris:  Lesot,  1935),  makes  known  a  decadent 
disciple  of  the  Goncourt  brothers,  whose  stylistic  method  he  com- 
pares with  Huysmans'.  The  style  of  Lorrain  (pseudonym  for 
Paul  Duval)  concerns  the  poet,  novelist  and  journalist  (pp. 
275-288) . 

5.    Twentieth  Century 

Since  the  tendency  of  "deciphering"  a  text  by  an  artistic 
analysis  is  normally  aroused  by  the  more  "obscure"  literature, 
the  twentieth  century  has  received  an  undue  share  in  literary  art 
analysis.  The  author  in  Germany  who  has  intuitively  cultivated 
artistic  literary  investigations,  or  as  he  himself  says,  has  in- 
vestigated the  formal  elements  of  the  spirit,  not  the  art  of  a 
writer,  is  Ernst  Robert  CURTIUS  (see  no.  446).  He  tried  to 
attain  an  essential  vision  of  Balzac  (1923)  by  intuition,  like  his 
colleagues  Gundolf  and  Bertram  who  wrote  on  Goethe  and 
Nietzsche  in  the  same  way.  In  his  book  — 576 —  Die  literari- 
schen  Wegbereiter  des  neuen  Frankreich  (Berlin,  1st  ed.,  1919 ; 
3d  ed.,  1952),  Curtius  revealed  already  stupendous  insights 
into  the  art  of  Paul  Claudel,  Charles  Peguy  and  others,  just  as 
he  marvelously  discerned  the  art  of  Marcel  Proust  (no.  297). 
His  results  are  fascinating,  but  the  approach  is  inimitable.  An 
unmethodical  start  from  an  inner  form  of  the  poetic  work  is 


100  Style  Transcending  Language  577-582 

inaccessible  to  analysis  in  the  scholarly  sense,  accessible  only  to 
artistic  intuition,  different  at  least  in  degree  in  the  different 
critics.    Here  stylistics  is  effaced  by  a  criticism  of  empathy. 

The  particular  poetic  technique  of  Charles  Peguy  attracted 
also  Albert  CHABANON  — 577 —  La  poetique  de  Peguy  (Paris : 
Laffont,  1947),  and  on  a  selective  basis,  the  art  of  prose  and  the 
humorous  elements  in  Peguy  were  stressed  by  Bernard  GUYON 
— 578 —  L'art  de  Peguy  (Paris:  Labergerie,  1948).  Neither  of 
these  studies,  however,  means  much  after  Curtius  (see  no.  576) 
and  L.  Spitzer's  analysis  (no.  293).  Chabanon  at  least  has  the 
right  approach  to  Peguy's  type  of  "classicisme,"  his  mots-clefs 
(Tapisserie — Presentation — Priere),  his  rhythm,  "ressources  de 
la  typographic,"  "precedes  descriptifs,"  "musique  et  suggestion," 
etc.  The  many  studies  on  Proust's  style  find  a  complement  in 
such  studies  on  his  composition  as  the  sequel  of  the  articles  by 
Robert  VIGNERON.  His  study  —579—  "Structure  de  Swann, 
Balzac,  Wagner  et  Proust,"  FR,  XIX  (1946),  370-384,  elaborates 
on  Proust's  attempt  to  make  us  believe  that  he  worked  out  the 
different  parts  of  his  "tapestry"  at  different  times  after  a  pre- 
conceived blueprint.  The  truth  is  that  it  was  only  afterwards 
that  he  linked  together  the  pieces  of  his  manteau  d'Arlequin 
which  originated  as  fragments.  Another  study  — 580 — "Struc- 
ture de  Swann.  Combray  ou  le  cercle  parfait,"  MP,  XLIV  (1948) , 
185-207,  is  a  masterly,  painstaking  analysis  of  the  principle 
which  links  the  episodes,  the  "souvenir"  and  the  present,  the 
hero  of  the  tale  and  the  ego  of  the  comment. 

A  competitor  in  Vigneron's  special  field  is  Germaine  BRfiE 
— 581 —  "Un  nouvel  apercu  sur  les  problemes  de  composition  dans 
'A  la  recherche  du  temps  perdu',"  RR,  XXXVIII  (1947),  43-52. 
She  checks  the  "proliferations"  with  some  "ebauches"  to  find  the 
evolution  from  fragmentary  description  to  the  "reel,  extra-tem- 
porel,  poetique."  John  W.  KNELLER  —582—  "The  Musical 
Structure  of  Proust's  'Un  Amour  de  Swann',"  YFS,  no.  4,  II 
(1949),  55-62,  is  the  first  close  and  worthwhile  study  of  literary- 
musical  interrelations.  It  shows  the  intertwining  of  the  Love- 
Odette  motif,  the  Art-Sonata-Vinteuil  motif,  and  Swann's  final 
renouncing  of  eternal  art  in  favor  of  banal  love  making.  This 
presentation  is  supposed  to  correspond  to  the  composition  form 
of  the  sonata-allegro  with  its  exposition,  development,  recapitu- 
lation and  coda.  A  more  general  article  on  the  intellectual-emo- 
tional as  well  as  parenthetical-unifying  complexity  of  Proust's 


583-594  France  101 

art  is  offered  by  Harold  MARCH  — 583 —  "The  Proustian  Man- 
ner," RR,  XXV  (1944) ,  52-72,  absorbed  now  by  his  book  —584— 
The  Two  Worlds  of  M.  Proust  (Philadelphia:  Univ.  Press,  1948) . 
Grace  Belle  DOLOWITZ  concentrated  on  — 585 —  A  Critical 
Study  of  the  Composition  of  Prousfs  Sodome  et  Gomorrhe 
(Typed  Diss.  Bryn  Mawr,  1945).  In  Emeric  FISER  —586— 
L'esthetique  de  Marcel  Proust  (Paris:  Rieder,  1933),  philosophi- 
cal considerations  prevail,  and  Proust's  art  is  appreciated  as  "une 
qualite  de  sa  vision"  (p.  51).  The  standard  work  on  Proust's 
composition  remains  Albert  FEUILLERAT  — 587 —  Comment 
M.  Proust  a  compose  son  roman  (New  Haven:  Yale  University 
Press,  1934). 

Andre  CUISENIER  — 588 —  Jules  Romains  et  Vunanimisme, 
dedicated  the  whole  second  volume  to  Uart  de  Jules  Romains 
(Paris:  Flammarion,  1948),  i.e.  to  structure  and  style  problems. 
It  cannot  cope,  however,  with  Spitzer's  analysis  at  all  (no.  293) . 
Helen  Brewster  COULTER  —589—  The  Prose  Work  and  Tech- 
nique of  Jules  Renard,  Diss.  Columbia  Univ.,  New  York,  1935, 
merely  lists  the  exterior  and  routine  technique  on  pp.  133-164, 
and  is  inferior  to  the  study  of  Pierre  NARDIN  La  langue  et  le 
style  de  J.  Renard  (no.  308).  Elisabeth  BROCK-SULZER 
— 590 —  "Der  Fall  Jules  Renard,"  Vberlieferung  und  Gestaltung. 
Festgabe  Spoerri  (Zurich:  Speer,  1950),  141-162,  penetrates  the 
structure  of  Renard's  Diary  and  branches  out  thence  to  his  phi- 
losophy of  life.  Renard's  diary  reduces  things  to  their  elements 
in  sharp  aphorisms ;  but  its  artificial  balance  neither  participates 
in  a  world  nor  creates  one.  A  hybrid  study  is  Pierre  TRAHARD 
— 591 —  Uart  de  Colette  (Paris:  Renard,  1941).  Trahard  re- 
fers in  the  notes  to  each  detail-investigation  done  on  the  art  of 
this  author.  He  tries  in  a  scholarly  way  to  give  a  comprehensive 
picture  together  with  a  readable  text.  However,  he  leaves  no 
deep  impression  on  the  reader  as  far  as  the  artistic  goal  is  con- 
cerned. This  study  lacks  the  refinement  of  the  more  limited 
studies  on  Colette  by  Yves  Gandon  (no.  140)  and  Irene  Frisch 
Fuglsang  (no.  442)  mentioned  above.  The  concentrated  chapter 
on  "Le  style  de  Colette"  (pp.  202-213)  in  Jean  LARNAC  —592— 
Colette  (Paris :  Kra,  1927) ,  and  Paul  REBOUX  —593—  Colette 
ou  le  genie  du  style  (Paris :  Rasmussen,  1925) ,  are  worth  reading. 

Charlotte  SCHLOTKE  — 594 —  Die  eigenartige  literarische 
Technik  Estaunies,  LRA,  Abt.  2,  vol.  7  (1938),  underscores  the 
magic  and  visionary  elements  of  this  author,  the  arbitrary  use  of 


102  Style  Transcending  Language  595-600 

time  and  tenses,  and  the  simple  language  which,  combined  with 
a  good  psychological  analysis,  is  reluctant  to  fixed  forms  of  nar- 
ration. The  peculiar  art  of  Estaunie  seems  much  better  recog- 
nized by  Eva  BUCK  —595—  "Zum  Stil  Estaunies,"  ZFS,  LVII 
(1935),  104-107.  She  interprets  it  as  a  style  where  the  fagade 
is  corrected  by  the  fond  with  expressions  like  rien  n'avait  change 
sinon,  or  il  a  Vair  toutefois,  etc.  An  appraisal  of  Romain  Hol- 
land's narrative  technique  is  given  by  Maria  JaGER  ■ — 596 — 
Die  Erzdhlungstechnik  Romain  RoUands  in  'Jean-Christophe' ," 
ARP,  vol.  4  (Miinster,  1933),  enlarging  the  earlier  article  of 
LuiSE  KRAUCHER  — 597 —  "Zur  kunstlerischen  Gestaltung  des 
'Jean-Christophe',"  ZFS,  LV  (1931),  194-218,  which  "lacks 
unity." 

It  need  not  be  stressed  that  the  hermetic  poetry  of  Paul  Valery 
was  bound  to  provoke  many  structural  studies  such  as  Jean- 
Henri  PARIZE  — 598 —  Essai  sur  la  pensee  et  Vart  de  Paul 
Valery  (Paris:  Richard  Masse,  1946),  going  neither  artistically 
nor  in  profundity  beyond  Hans  S0renson,  La  poesie  de  Paul 
Valery.  Etude  stylistique  sur  la  Jeune  Parque  (no.  312).  Parize 
finds  that  Valery's  poetry  is  the  ideal  expression  of  the  truth 
about  a  complex  world: 

Chez  lui,  en  effet,  existe  une  veritable  maniere  poetique,  de 
voir  le  monde,  et  celle-ci  a  determine  la  substance  meme  de  ses 
poemes.  11  change  le  'charme*  des  apparences  mais,  a  travers 
celles-ci,  leur  raison  d'etre  (p.  72). 

Another  of  the  formulas  of  H.  Parize  is  this,  justifying  Valery's 
art  as  true  poetry : 

Par  sa  vertu  eosentielle  d'essence  musicale,  la  poesie  trans- 
porte,  par  une  voie  melodieuse,  l'ldee  dans  une  region  de  Pesprit 
ou  la  comprehension  est  plus  immediate   (p.  73), 

and  finally:  "L' abstraction  meme  devient  image,  tant,  comme  le 
remarque  saint  Thomas,  'nous  voulons  voir  ce  que  nous  voulons 
comprendre'  "  (p.  90).  Neither  S0renson  nor  Parize  was  capable 
of  finding  the  bipartite  structure  of  La  Jeune  Parque,  a  discov- 
ery due  to  a  much  more  selective  study,  Jacques  DUCHESNE- 
OUILLEMIN  — 599 —  Essai  sur  la  Jeune  Parque  de  Paul  Valery 
(Bruxelles:  L'Ecran  du  Monde,  1947). 

Structure  as  well  as  style  of  Duhamel  caught  the  interest  of 
Lisa  WEHRLI  — 600 —  Welt,  Mensch  und  Stil  im  Werke  Georges 
Duhamels  (see  no.  424),  and  of  the  causeur  Gonzague  TRUC 


601-607  France  103 

__601—  "L'art  et  la  pensee  de  M.  Georges  Duhamel,"  RHe,  III 
(1938),  96-109.  Duhamel  is  also  acknowledged  by  the  men  of 
the  medical  profession  for  his  skill  in  distributing  psychiatric 
traits,  particularly  those  of  Salavin.  Because  of  their  haphazard 
appearances  these  traits  are  not  striking,  but  when  taken  to- 
gether they  make  a  most  correct  clinical  picture  acceptable  to 
the  physician:  Lucien  Pierre  BERNHEIM  — 602 —  Georges 
Duhamel,  le  clinicien  dans  Vart  du  roman  (Paris:  Lapied,  1939). 
Gonzague  TRUC  —603—  "I/art  et  la  passion  de  M.  Ferdi- 
nand Celine,"  RHe,  VII  (1938),  550-565,  inquires  into  the  tech- 
nique of  the  author  of  Voyage  au  bout  de  la  nuit;  and  Pierre 
KOHLER  —604—  L'art  de  Ramuz  (Geneve,  1929),  into  the  art 
of  the  great  Swiss  artist  of  French  prose.  Kohler  sees  Ramuz' 
originality  in  a  refined  and  stylized  rural  language  in  keeping 
with  his  rural  themes,  identifying  thus  the  author  with  his  heroes, 
and  justifying  the  method  of  rendering  with  an  overwhelming 
nature  imagery  the  reflections  of  the  finest  psychology  mirrored 
by  a  very  concrete  stream  of  consciousness.  An  acceptable 
work  on  Ramuz'  art  and  style  is  AndrS  TISSOT  —605—  C.  F. 
Ramuz  ou  le  drame  de  la  poesie  (Neuchatel:  Baconniere,  1948), 
concentrating  on  his  'langue  delogicisee,"  his  "art-cinema"  and 
"art- vision."  Many  remarks  on  the  art  of  Ramuz  may  be  found 
also  in  the  volume  of  collected  essays  by  different  authors,  Pour 
ou  contre  Ramuz  (Cahiers  de  la  Quinzaine,  ed.  Marcel  Peguy, 
XVIIe  serie,  premier  cahier,  Paris,  1926).  There  his  style  as 
that  of  a  constructeur  with  life-and-peasant  elements  of  lan- 
guage is  compared  to  the  style  of  the  painter  Cezanne  in  Pierre 
COURTHION  —606—  "Ramuz  et  Cezanne,"  ib.,  189-200.  Wer- 
ner GttNTHER  —607—  C.  F.  Ramuz.  Wesen-Werk-Kunst 
(Bern:  Haupt,  1948),  contains  a  decisive  chapter  on  Ramuz' 
stylistic  art  (pp.  237-307) .  It  deals  with  the  unification  of  the 
peasant  tone  in  dialogue  and  the  report  of  the  author,  with  the 
imperceptible  inclusion  of  the  author  into  the  action  by  the  use 
of  nous-autres ;  with  a  strong  motion  picture  technique  of  visual- 
ization, slow  appearances  and  disappearances  of  persons,  magni- 
fying tricks  as  to  particular  details;  with  the  curious  use  of  a 
"hammering"  relative  pronoun  which  contains  whole  actions 
within  clauses.  There  is  a  bewildering  use  of  the  narrative 
tenses,  overriding  the  well-established,  picturesque  imperfect; 
the  presentation  of  the  simultaneity  of  several  actions,  some  of 
which  fuse  with  thought  in  a  new  kind  of  style  indirect  libre; 


104  Style  Transcending  Language  608-611 

finally  there  are  circumlocutions  for  simple  things,  imagery  and 
symbolism,  rhythm  and  a  particular  technique  of  expressionism, 
using  wandering  persons  as  a  peg  for  the  landscape  around  them. 
Ramuz'  technique  culminates  in  a  device  which  Giinther  calls 
"Aufheben  und  Neuschaffen  des  Raumes." 

The  elegant-ironical  art  of  transformation  as  handled  by 
Jean  Giraudoux  has  elicited  the  appreciation  of  Henri  LE- 
MAiTRE  —603—  "L'art  de  Jean  Giraudoux,"  Co,  III  (Jan.  1943, 
no.  16),  81-85,  and  of  Laurence  LESAGE  —  609—  "Jean  Girau- 
doux, Prince  des  precieux,"  PMLA,  LVII  (1942),  1196-1205. 
Lesage  explains  Giraudoux's  art  as  a  symphony  of  evasion,  a 
f  eerie,  a  life  of  Adam  before  sin  in  the  midst  of  sky-scrapers,  with 
characters  who,  never  harassed  by  financial  worries,  observe  the 
rules  of  la  carte  du  tendre.  Lemaitre  does  not  find  him  precieux 
at  all,  but  very  serious  in  his  joyful  serenity,  because 

Ne  manifeste-t-il  pas  que  toute  son  oeuvre  est  un  vaste  conte 
ou  le  style  poetique  est  au  langage  quotidien  ce  que  la  legende  est 
a  1'histoire? 

$ENGT  HASSELROT  —610—  "Technique  et  style  de  Jean 
Giraudoux,  auteur  dramatique,"  SN,  XVIII  (1945-46),  249-268, 
stresses  the  "theatre  litteraire"  of  this  "Musset  du  XXe  siecle" 
as  based  primarily  on  style  in  which  the  rythme  ternaire  pre- 
vails together  with  allusions  to  literary  texts,  famous  metaphors, 
color  shades,  "mots  de  matelots"  and  fanciful  contradictory  de- 
scriptions. Hasselrot  gives  an  ideal  study  "suivant  la  methode 
stylistique  inauguree  par  M.  Bally  et  brillamment  continuee  par 
M.  Marouzeau"  (p.  255).  Another  clever  stylistic  approach  to 
Giraudoux  is  Anne  Chaplin  HANSEN  — 611 —  "Les  deux  uni- 
vers  de  Jean  Giraudoux,"  OL,  VI  (1948),  1-51.  Attacking  the 
interpretations  of  Sartre  and  Gunnar  H0st,  Hansen  finds  the 
art  principles  of  Giraudoux  in  the  subduing  of  life's  "fatal 
dualism"  by  language,  particularly  by  the  symbol  of  the  mirror, 
the  enigmatic  humorism,  the  metamorphosis,  the  superlatives, 
the  similes  beginning  with  a  comparison  and  ending  in  a  pure 
metaphor.  All  these  means  reveal  "Partisan  styliste  qui  seconde 
le  poete"  (p.  10).  The  words  and  locutions  participate  in  "la 
sensibilite,  Touie,  la  vue  et  le  souffle  humain"  (p.  17).  Among 
them  the  substantive  called  "somnambule"  and  "magnetiseur" 
dominates.  The  contrasts  are  based  on  word  couples  like  minus- 
cule .'immense;  nu:habille;  passager:eternel. 


612-616  France  105 

A  highly  competent,  early  appraisal  of  ClaudePs  achievements 
in  his  first  great  dramas  is  Herbert  DIECKMANN  — 612 —  Die 
Kunstanschauung  P.  Claudels,  Diss.  Bonn,  1931.  He  reveals 
the  symbolism  of  Claudel  with  surprising  insights.  Hans 
TAESCHLER  —613—  "Julien  Green:  'Minuit',"  T,  IV  (1946), 
153-165,  starts  from  Green's  typical  method  of  offering  first  a 
"punctual"  and  then  an  atmospheric-fantastic  view  of  things.  He 
demonstrates  that  Minuit  and  all  the  other  novels  have  the  same 
structural  and  motivistic  principle :  the  concrete  criminal  world 
and  the  world  of  dreams  are  two  unbridgeable  forms  of  existence 
in  life  but  not  in  poetry.  The  study  is  like  a  foretaste  of  the 
important  work  on  Julien  Green's  art  by  Marc  EIGELDINGER 
— 614 —  J.  Green  ou  la  tentation  de  Virreel  (Paris:  Portes  de 
France,  1947).  Eigeldinger,  too,  stresses  the  fusion  of  reality 
and  dream  in  Green's  visionary  novels ;  it  is  precisely  this  fusion 
which  leaves  room  for  the  unpredictable. 

A  very  short  appreciation  of  the  art  of  Oscar  Wladislaw  Milosz 
is  based  on  a  coincidence.  Gerda  ZELTNER-NEUKOMM 
—615—  "Notizen  zu  Milosz,"  T,  III  (1945) ,  225-234,  showed  how 
a  translation  of  Miguel  Manara  destroyed  fundamental  expres- 
sive elements  of  Milosz's  thought  (the  existential  est,  the  double 
genitive,  the  mysterious  et  which  takes  barriers  &way)  and  so 
deprived  the  work  of  its  final  dimension. 

The  structural-stylistic  principle  in  the  poetry  of  the  Sur- 
realists was  defined  by  Lotte  THIESSING-SPECKER  —616— 
"Zur  Lyrik  Paul  Eluard's,"  T,  III  (1945),  99-120.  Eluard  de- 
stroys reality  to  rebuild  out  of  its  very  elements  dreamlike  reali- 
ties, the  greater  truth  of  which  consists  in  the  interrelations  and 
double  aspects  of  men  and  things  thus  made  visible.  By  means 
of  poetry,  measure  and  law  are  imposed  upon  chaos.  The  main 
"figure  of  speech"  is  therefore  the  unity  out  of  the  greatest 
imaginable  contrasts  containing  an  archetypical  truth,  e.g. 

Les  oiseaux,  la  caresse  au  joli  ventre  doux, 
Les  oiseaux,  la  caresse  aigue  comme  un  serpent. 

Other  recurrent  forms  conveying  similar  discoveries  to  the 
reader  are  covered  by  the  schemes  A->B->C  and  A-»B,  B->A. 
There  is  also  an  equation  metaphor :  creation  A  =  destruction  B 
which  discovers  the  world  in  action:  "La  fleur  qui  a  ete  belle 
comme  un  enfant,  est  livree  au  soleil  comme  le  bois  aux  flammes." 
The  reciprocity  of  love  and  its  inexhaustible  individual  possibili- 


106  Style  Transcending  Language  617-619 

ties  practically  afford  the  theme,  style  and  structure  of  Eluard's 
poetical  variations  (see  no.  1488). 

Renato  POGGIOLI  —617—  "The  Poetry  of  St.-J.  Perse," 
YFS,  I  (1948),  5-33,  although  not  a  technical  adept  of  stylistics, 
analyzes  in  masterly  fashion  contents,  structure  and  style  from 
Eloges  through  Anabase  to  Neiges,  Pluies  and  Vents  of  this 
French  James  Joyce  under  the  spell  of  Rimbaud's  hallucinations 
and  Claudel's  versicle  rather  than  under  the  influence  of  Paul 
Valery.  His  concern,  comparable  to  that  of  T.  S.  Eliot,  is  aristo- 
cratic racial  selection,  prehistoric  culture,  and  an  archaic  mode 
of  life.  Therefore  accents  of  beauty  and  love  are  precisely  on 
things  which  normally  would  appear  repulsive  now.  Enumera- 
tive  catalogues  betray  the  likings  of  this  "sorcerer"  and 
"stranger"  v/ho  can  create  true  fables  and  myths  that  seem  to 
come  from  ancestral  memory  and  collective  awareness.  The  struc- 
ture of  the  apparently  fragmentary  Anabase  is  disclosed  as  a 
prelude  and  motivistic  recapitulation  of  a  theme  which  gives  the 
impression  of  a  drama  while  it  is  rhapsodic.  The  motifs  are: 
horse,  stranger,  sorcerer,  purity,  fullness  of  time.  The  sen- 
tences are  mines  of  images,  etherealized,  which  radiate  objec- 
tivity and  create  without  any  dissonance  a  metaphysical  halo: 
"His  poems  are  'airy  nothings/  but  from  those  'nothings'  that 
are  the  very  life  of  man"  (p.  31) .  Like  Racine's,  his  idol  is  to  be 
Due  d'un  peuple  d'images  a  conduire  aux  masses  mortes.  This 
fine  and  exhaustive  study  of  Poggioli  supersedes  the  earlier 
article  of  Roger  CAILLOIS  —618—  "The  Art  of  Saint  John 
Perse,"  SR,  LIII  (Spring  1945),  198-206. 

Gerda  ZELTNER-NEUKOMM  —619—  "St.  John  Perse  als 

4 

Dichter  der  Fremdheit,"  Uberlieferung  und  Gestaltung.  Festgabe 
Spoerri  (Zurich:  Speer,  1950),  starts  from  some  observations  on 
syntax  and  grammar  by  stating  that  there  is  in  Anabase  a  curious 
use  of  the  demonstrative,  ellipsis  and  refrain-like  repetitions. 
The  introduction  of  statements  by  dire,  voir,  rire  makes  concrete 
evocations  seem  of  dubious  "reality,"  the  more  so  as  tenses 
constantly  change  between  the  present  and  the  past.  This  vague- 
ness, however,  is  always  checked  by  precise  details.  Finally  it 
becomes  clear  that  these  stylistic  means  of  apparent  incoherence 
express  strangeness — nay,  create  the  myth  of  the  Stranger, 
rooted  in  St.  John  Perse  himself.  The  poet  who  is  the  diplomat 
St.  Leger  has  elements  in  his  biography  and  philosophy  of  life 
which  almost  prove  that  his  style  elements  emphasize  his  double 


620-622  Spain  and  Portugal  107 

participation  in  Orient  and  Occident,  in  Asiatic  shapeless  legends 
and  French  clarity,  Fata  Morgana  and  solid  structures,  dimness 
of  the  desert  dust  and  light  on  well-shaped  things. 

Among  the  innumerable  articles  on  all  types  of  existentialist 
writers  like  J.  P.  Sartre,  Simone  de  Beauvoir,  Gabriel  Marcel, 
and  Albert  Camus,  there  is  almost  nothing  on  their  art  except 
Raymond  PICARD  — 620 —  "L'art  de  J.  P.  Sartre  et  Les  hommes 
de  mauvaise  volonte,"  FL  (Feb.  15,  1946),  289-296.  R.  Picard 
explains  Sartre's  art  as  "une  recomposition  de  la  realite"  of  "un 
univers  de  desordre  veule,"  where  the  characters  are  neither 
objects  nor  accomplices  of  the  author,  but  inseparable  parts  of 
this  world  itself  which  they  accuse  by  their  style  and  even  their 
language  (rancuneux,  peineux).  Thus  Sartre  uses  symbolism 
for  naturalistic  purposes. 

B.    Spain  and  Portugal 

If  Spain  and  Latin  America  can  be  placed  ahead  of  Italy  in 
the  studies  in  literary  art,  it  is  because  of  their  first-class  stu- 
dents in  style  investigation  like  Amado  and  Damaso  Alonso, 
Americo  Castro  and  Rodolfo  Oroz  as  well  as  a  younger  genera- 
tion represented  by  Raimundo  Lida,  Maria  Rosa  Lida  de  Malkiel, 
Enrique  Anderson  Imbert,  Angel  Rosenblat,  Battistessa,  Bou- 
soiio,  Claveria,  Casalduero  and  others. 

1.    Middle  Ages 

First  of  all  there  exist  several  studies  dealing  with  the  art 
of  the  Old  Spanish  Cantar  de  Mio  Cid.  Americo  CASTRO 
—621—  "Poesia  y  realidad  en  el  Poema  del  Cid,"  TF,  I  (1936), 
7-30,  has  envisaged  this  poem  as  an  archaic  poetization  of  primi- 
tive every-day  life.  He  shows  that  dignity  is  born  of  the  ritual 
stiffness  which  veils  talk  and  gesture,  that  greatness  results  from 
the  hieratic  patterns  of  characters  and  action,  and  that  poetry 
springs  from  the  natural  interference  of  innocence  in  a  world  of 
sin,  so  that  a  crime  is  hindered  by  the  silvery  voice  of  a  harm- 
less child. 

Castro's  appreciation  from  a  bird's  eye  view  must  be  supple- 
mented by  the  detailed  study  of  the  Cantar  de  Mio  Cid  by  Ewald 
KULLMANN  —622—  "Die  dichterische  und  sprachliche  Gestalt 
des  'Cantar  de  Mio  Cid',"  RF,  XLV  (1931),  1-65.  His  wealth 
of  collected  examples  is  worth  more  than  his  interpretation. 
Kullmann  sees  in  the  Cid  a  work  of  joy  and  measure  dramatic  in 


108  Style  Transcending  Language  623-627 

structure.  Northup's  interpretation  of  it  as  an  Odyssey  of  a 
medieval  businessman  would  not  agree  with  him.  The  dramatic 
impression  is  brought  about  by  the  negligible  insertion  of  dixo 
in  the  dialogue,  which  is  full  of  visual  strokes.  The  use  of 
epithets  and  adjectives  of  color,  the  quotation  of  proverbs  and 
clumsy,  courteous  formulas,  liturgic  complaints  and  prayers, 
scarcity  in  the  use  of  comparisons  and  metaphors,  and  richness 
in  rhetoric  metonymies  are  the  outstanding  features  of  the 
Poema.  Theme  and  forms  of  expression  are  based  on  the  anti- 
thesis: king  and  revolting  vassal.  Contrast  and  repetition, 
therefore,  call  into  play  bipartite  rather  than  tripartite  sen- 
tences. Kullmann's  conclusion  seems  in  some  respect  artificially 
construed,  because  he  wants  to  check  his  analysis  against  scholas- 
tic metaphysical  aesthetics,  which  has  no  bearing  on  this  type 
of  "semipopular"  literature:  Pulchritudo  est  splendor  veritatis. 

There  is  also  a  most  valuable  aesthetic  interpretation  by 
Damaso  ALONSO  — 623 —  "Estilo  y  creacion  en  el  Poema  del 
Cid,"  Ensayos  sobre  poesia  espanola  (Buenos  Aires:  Revista  de 
Occidente,  1946),  69-111.  His  main  points  are:  reality  is  made 
poetic  by  elements  of  indirectness,  allusions,  enumerative  de- 
scriptions and  the  "ponderative  tanto,"  and  by  a  slowness  of 
expository  talks  in  which  "las  almas  se  desnudan  hablando." 
The  humor  is  delicate  and  the  characterization  so  fine  that  the 
different  persons  make  a  real  "friso  de  cabezas." 

Taking  one  more  step  in  the  direction  of  an  entirely  literary 
model-hero  and  scenes  merely  fictitious,  Leo  SPITZER  — 624— 
"Sobre  el  caracter  hist6rico  del  Cantar  de  Mio  Cid,"  NRFH,  II 
(1948),  105-117,  tries  to  prove  against  Ram6n  Menendez  Pidal 
that  the  Cid  is  as  much  a  fictional  transposition  of  an  historic 
character  as  Roland  and  Charlemagne.  There  is  a  difference  in 
degree,  the  Cid  being  a  medieval  "biographie  romancee"  (epo- 
peyizada),  but  not  the  difference  of  an  "historical"  versus  a 
fictitious  epic.  Spitzer's  expose  receives  some  support  from  E.  R. 
CURTIS  study  of  the  "chronology  of  topics"  in  —625—  Euro- 
pdische  Literatur  und  Lateinisches  Mittelalter  (Bern:  Francke, 
1948) ,  and  from  the  very  impressive  and  refined  motivistic- 
structural  study  of  Pedro  SALINAS  —626—  "La  vuelta  al 
esposo :  ensayo  sobre  estructura  y  sensibilidad  en  el  'Cantar  de 
Mio  Cid',"  BSS,  XXIV  (1947),  79-88;  but  rectifications  from 
Ramon  MENENDEZ  PIDAL  —627—  "Poesia  e  Historia  en  el 
'Mio  Cid',"  NRFH,  III  (1949),  113-129. 


628-632  Spain  and  Portugal  109 

Marti  DE  RIQUER  — 628 —  Introduccio  al  Tirant  lo  Blanc. 
Extret  de  Vedicio  del  Tirant  lo  Blanc  de  la  Biblioteca  Perenne 
(Barcelona:  Selecta,  1947),  dedicates  a  whole  chapter  to  art, 
language  and  style  (pp.  158-174),  where  he  discusses  speech 
styles  in  dialogues,  traditional  pattern  descriptions,  original  de- 
scriptions of  feminine  beauty,  and  similar  problems.  Pedro 
SALINAS  — 629 —  Jorge  Manrique  o  tradition  y  originalidad 
(Buenos  Aires:  Editorial  sudamericana,  1947),  with  a  pro- 
foundly artistic  instinct,  does  not  sufficiently  enough  prepare 
his  stylistic  synthesis.  He  bases  it  on  an  intrinsic  stylistic 
analysis  of  the  Coplas  which  he  explains  only  by  the  cultural- 
political  tradition  of  Spain.  This  is  a  double  tradition,  learned 
and  "analfabeta."  He  describes  the  work  as  a  symphony,  the 
leitmotifs  of  which  are  first  skimmed,  then  developed  one  after 
the  other.  The  thread  of  exhortative  style  is  visible  throughout 
the  expository  and  sententious  styles,  so  that  the  brillo  retorico 
and  the  realismo  historico  are  never  entirely  fused.  Salinas  says 
that  "La  estilistica  sirve  de  valiosa  corroboracion,"  (p.  200)  by 
proving  e.g.  that  the  repeated  prepositional  adverb  contains  at 
the  same  time  a  notion  of  time  and  state.  It  corroborates  the 
art  principles  in  Manrique :  integration,  selection,  vivification  of 
traditional  elements. 

2.    Renaissance  and  Baroque 

The  relation  between  style  and  composition  in  the  Celestina 
has  been  worked  out  by  J.  V.  Montesino  SAMPERIO  — 630— 
"Sobre  la  cuantificacion  del  estilo  literario:  Una  contribucion  al 
estudio  de  la  unidad  de  autor  en  'La  Celestina*  de  Fernando  de 
Rojas,"  RNC,  VII  (1946),  No.  55:  94-115;  No.  56:  63-88.  Here 
the  desperate  attempt  is  made  to  prove  the  unique  authorship 
for  all  the  acts  of  the  Celestina  by  the  statistical  figuration  of 
the  relatively  equal  length  of  the  periods.  This  he  based  on  the 
method  of  G.  U.  Yule,  "On  sentence  length  as  statistical  charac- 
teristics of  style  in  Prose"  (Cambridge,  England,  1939),  by 
which  Yule  tried  to  prove  definitely  the  authorship  of  the  Imi- 
tatio  as  to  Thomas  a  Kempis.  Margot  ARCE  — 631 —  Garcilaso 
de  la  Vega.  Contribution  al  estudio  de  la  Iwica  espanola  del  siglo 
XVI  (Madrid:  RFE,  Anejo  XIII,  1930),  has  emphasized  all  the 
aesthetical  trends  in  Garcilaso  which  reveal  general  features  of 
Spanish  renaissance  style.    AmSrico  CASTRO  — 632 —  "Antonio 


110  Style  Transcending  Language  633-636 

de  Guevara:  Un  hombre  y  un  estilo  del  siglo  XVI,"  BICC,  I 
(1945),  46  ff.,  or  "Introductory  Essay"  to  El  villano  del  Danubio 
(ed.  A.  Castro,  Princeton  Texts  5,  1945),  V-XXV,  makes  an 
attempt  to  explain  the  famous  virtuoso  manner  of  Guevara  as  a 
personal  style  constituted  by  complexes  and  traumas.    Leo  SPIT- 
ZER  — 633 —  "Sobre  las  ideas  de  Americo  Castro  a  proposito  de 
El  villano  del  Danubio  de  Antonio  de  Guevara,"  BICC,  VI  (1950) , 
1-14,  coinciding  with  the  analysis  of  Maria  Rosa  LIDA  — 634 — 
"Fray  Antonio  de  Guevara,"  RFH,  VII  (1945),  346-388,  inter- 
prets this  mannerism  rather  as  a  rhetorical  device  continuing  the 
pseudo-Ciceronian  or  Isidorian  style  in  normal  tradition.     This 
tradition  and  its  stylistic  elements  can  be  considered  as  estab- 
lished with  finality  by  Maria  Rosa  Lida  in  the  chapter  "Estilo" 
(pp.  375-388)  in  her  above-mentioned  article.    Rafael  LAPESA 
— 635 —  La  trayectoria  poetica  de  Garcilaso  (Madrid :  RO,  1948) , 
bases  Garcilaso's  earlier  style  on  Ausias  March,  Spanish  folk 
poetry  and  the  Troubadours:  avoiding  description  of  feminine 
beauty  and  description  of  nature,  tending  to  conceptismo  and 
wordplays.     Later  on,  imitations  of  Petrarch   and   Sannazaro 
enable  him  "de  apresar  en  la  musica  del  verso  la  esencia  misteri- 
osa  de  la  poesia"  (p.  183).    The  analyses  are  not  sharp  enough 
to  demonstrate  the  entrecruzamiento  between  both  trends. 

In  our  advanced  stage  of  style  studies,  an  author's  art  is  some- 
times analyzed  in  a  text-edition  (see  no.  628).  This  is  the  case 
with  the  study  concerning  structure,  fiction,  characters,  descrip- 
tions and  style  of  Pedro  de  Ofia,  done  by  Rodolfo  OROZ  in  his 
introduction  to  — 636 —  El  Vasauro.  Poema  heroico  de  Pedro  de 
Ona  (Santiago:  Universidad  de  Chile,  1942),  xxii-xcviii.  R. 
Oroz  stresses  Ofia's  expressive  power  in  this  historical  poem  on 
the  aureo  vaso  bestowed  on  Don  Andres  de  Cabrera,  hero  of  the 
"guerras  de  Granada."  Ofia  likes  the  emotional  expression,  the 
archaic  affective  repetition,  hyperbolic  means  studied  in  Vergil 
and  beautified  by  Gongora ;  he  avoids  and  circumvents  in  many 
ways  the  words  for  death  and  dying,  for  God,  horse,  sun.  The 
mythological  allusions  appear  in  details  known  only  to  the  culto. 
Manifold  are  the  forms  of  images  explaining  qualities  and  ac- 
tions rather  than  things.  Some  conceptismos  are  striking.  The 
metaphors  lean  largely  on  the  sea  and  seafaring.  The  classical 
frozen  topics  are  defrosted  again,  as  the  cheeks  of  lilies  and  roses 
become  mejillas  sembradas  de  amapolas.  The  use  of  the  verbal 
adjective  as  an  epithet,  particularly  in  expressing  aspects  of 


637-638  Spain  and  Portugal  111 

light,  makes  Oha's  poem  very  "Latin";  the  substantive  used  as 
epithet  makes  it  most  "gongorino" :  "Con  su  topazia  luz  dia- 
mantes  luzes  relanga."  The  epitheton  ornans  as  a  keen  concise 
metaphor  produces  beautiful  riddles:  la  frondosa  cdrcel  (wood), 
la  ondosa  furia  (sea) .  The  colors  red  and  white  are  brought  to 
brilliancy  by  synonyms  and  connotations.  Gongora's  typical 
periphrastic  constructions,  particularly  with  a  verb  like  dar 
(dar  pano  at  viento)  replace  the  simple  verb  (navegar) .  Ona's 
syntactical  formulas  are  copied  from  Gongora  as  well  as  his 
hyperbata  and  cultistic  words  with  esdrujulo  rhythm;  but  all 
that  is  due  to  an  insatiable  thirst  for  beauty  in  Ofia  himself. 
This  type  of  structural-stylistic  introduction  will  soon  become 
imperative  for  any  text  edition. 

Rodolphe  HOORNAERT  — 637 —  Sainte  Therese,  ecrivain 
(Paris:  Desclee  de  Brouwer,  1925),  basing  his  conclusions  on  an 
abundance  of  examples,  succeeds  in  establishing  the  style  physi- 
ognomy of  St.  Teresa  by  opportune  considerations  on  the  literary 
creation  of  the  epoch  and  on  the  literary  gifts  of  the  Saint.  He 
shows  that,  from  the  union  of  sensitivity  and  intellect,  springs 
forth  a  rigorous  logical  structure  in  spite  of  its  disorderly  ap- 
pearance; that  the  Spanish  realism  of  the  Saint  is  responsible 
for  her  new  idiomatic  imagery;  and  that,  united  in  a  singular 
compound,  the  elegance,  the  ingenuity  and  the  irony  create 
means  of  expression  which  are  unique. 

DAmaso  ALONSO  — 638 —  La  poesia  de  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz 
(desde  esta  ladera)  (Madrid:  Instituto  Antonio  de  Nebrija, 
1942),  does  not  believe  that  awe  need  be  a  hindrance  to  an  ar- 
tistic analysis.  His  book  (see  no.  201)  has  become  "un  modelo 
felicisimo,  porque  bien  poco,  en  nuestra  critica  literaria,  tiene  su 
artistica  diferenciacion  y  valoracion,"  to  quote  from  M.  Romera 
Navarro,  HR,  XI  (1943),  183.  Damaso  Alonso  finds  that  San 
Juan  de  la  Cruz*  lines  and  strophes  are  far-off  echoes  of  Garcilaso 
de  la  Vega's  eclogues  (over  Sebastian  de  Cordoba),  a  genuine 
expression  of  the  poet's  maternal  dialect,  a  most  delicate  fusion 
of  the  Canticle  of  Canticles  with  motifs  from  novels  of  chivalry 
and  shepherd  romances;  in  spite  of  all  that,  he  sees  them  as 
original  and  adequate  for  their  mystical  message.  Sometimes 
they  are  by  dint  of  epithets  overwhelming  in  their  warmth  of  love, 
sometimes  by  absence  of  adjectives  frigid  as  the  poetical  atmos- 
phere demands,  since  they  are  applied  to  that  spiritual  strato- 


112  Style  Transcending  Language  639-644 

sphere  where  the  poet  avows :  Subi  tan  alto,  tan  alto  Que  le  di  a  la 
caza  alcance.  Damaso  Alonso  found  a  continuator  in  Agustin 
DEL  CAMPO  —639—  "Poesia  y  estilo  de  la  'Noche  oscuraV 
RIE,  I,  (1943),  pp.  33-58.  The  newly  discovered  adaptation  in 
lira-strophes  of  the  Canticle  cf  Canticles  erroneously  at- 
tributed to  Luis  de  Leon  did  not  modify  D.  Alonso's  conclusions. 
Damaso  ALONSO  — 640 —  Vida  y  obra  de  Medrano,  I  (Madrid: 
Instituto  Miguel  de  Cervantes,  1948) ,  makes  clear  how  the  styl- 
istic Horatian  patterns  appear  modified  in  Francisco  de  Medrano, 
ex-Jesuit  and  lyricist  who  died  in  Sevilla  in  1607.  He  has 
affinities  with  Luis  de  Leon  and  shares  his  devices  of  cultism, 
archaism,  and  repetition.    He  is  a  master  of  plurimembracion. 

To  what  degree  studies  of  literary  form  invade  the  boundaries 
of  linguistic  style  studies  may  be  seen  from  respectable  publi- 
cations of  the  type  of  E.  KOHLER  —641—  "L'art  dramati- 
que  de  Lope  de  Vega,"  RCC,  XXXVII  (1936),  vol.  II,  385-95, 
587-98,  701-75;  XXXVIII  (1937),  vol.  I,  358-71,  522-32; 
vol.  II,  167-76 ;  or  0.  JORDER  —642—  Die  Formen  des  Sonetts 
bei  Lope  (Halle:  Niemeyer,  1936).  The  interplay  of  language 
and  versification  produces  a  superior  kind  of  art,  as  demonstrat- 
ed by  these  intensified  studies.  It  becomes  clear  that  high  ar- 
tistry may  depend  on  playful  entertainment  based  on  echoes  and 
repetitions,  quotations  and  allusions,  versos  esdrujulos,  agudos 
and  versos  de  cabo  roto. 

A  Spanish  theme  was  also  studied  by  Helmut  HATZFELD 
— 643 —  Don  Quijote  als  Wortkunstwerk  (Leipzig:  Teubner, 
1927),  Spanish:  El  Quijote  como  obra  de  arte  del  lenguaje 
(Madrid:  Consejo  superior,  1949).  A  concise  summary  has 
been  published  in  Spanish  — 644 —  "El  estilo  del  Quijote," 
BBMP,  X  (1928) ,  and  in  English  as  "The  Style  of  'Don  Quixote'," 
in  Angel  Flores  and  M.  J.  Benardete,  Cervantes  across  the  Cen- 
turies (New  York:  Dryden  Press,  1947),  94-100.  Leo  Spitzer 
has  properly  observed  that  the  intention  of  this  study  was 
to  give  a  semantic  inventory  of  Cervantes'  stylistic  forms, 
as  indicated  by  the  subtitle:  Die  einzelnen  Stilmittel  und  ihr 
Sinn,  AR,  XI  (1927),  511.  From  Spitzer's  remark  a  clear  dif- 
ferentiation is  made  between  two  types  of  stylistic  investigation. 
An  analyzer  of  the  art  of  an  author  either  gives  a  semasiology 
(Bedeutungslehre)  of  the  stylistic  forms  that  occur  in  this 
writer,  and  compares  the  author's  use  with  the  use  made  of  the 
same  forms  of  expression  in  other  authors  who  have  either  pre- 


645-653  Spain  and  Portugal  113 

ceded  or  sometimes  followed  him;  or,  he  gives  an  onomasiology 
(Bezeichnungslehre) ,  that  is  the  exposition  of  idiomatic  re- 
sources that  offered  themselves  to  a  specific  author  for  his  indi- 
vidual expression.  It  is  true  that  these  methods  of  investiga- 
tion should  complement  each  other.  In  other  words,  stylistic 
investigation  may  be  made  in  two  opposite  directions :  either  as 
a  repertoire  of  the  artistic  forms  of  an  author,  epoch,  etc.,  in- 
volving a  procedure  from  the  outer  to  the  inner  element,  from 
the  sign  to  the  meaning ;  or  as  a  system  of  exteriorizations  of  a 
specific  individual  spirit  in  its  original  form  of  thought,  involv- 
ing necessarily  a  procedure  from  the  inner  to  the  outer  element, 
from  the  concept  to  the  sign.  This  stylistic  onomasiology,  how- 
ever, which  Spitzer  has  developed  into  a  system,  is  inadequate 
for  grasping  the  entire  art,  because  not  all  the  voices  making 
up  the  work  are  the  author's  voice  in  a  direct  sense.  Genus, 
characters,  and  epoch  escape  the  onomasiological  approach,  which 
never  can  explain  the  structure. 

The  art  of  the  Don  Quijote  has  since  been  appreciated  under 
other  aspects:  as  a  style  of  extremes  and  of  elusiveness,  by 
Am^rico  CASTRO  — 645 —  "Incarnation  in  Don  Quixote,"  Cer- 
vantes across  the  Centuries  (New  York:  Dryden  Press,  1947), 
136-178;  and  as  a  style  of  fundamental  perspectivism  even  to 
the  proper  names,  by  Leo  SPITZER  —646—  "Linguistic  Per- 
spectivism in  the  Don  Quijote,"  LLH,  41-85;  the  composition  as 
a  double  circular  form  of  plot  with  an  additional  inner  arrange- 
ment in  "cascades,"  by  JoaquIn  CASALDUERO  —647—  "La 
Composicion  de  El  Ingenioso  Hidalgo  Don  Quijote  de  la  Mancha," 
RFH,  II  (1940),  323  ff.,  and  with  some  "baroque"  modifications 
of  Part  II  in  — 648 —  Don  Quijote  in  Cervantes  across  the  Cen- 
turies (New  York:  Dryden  Press,  1948),  56-93,  epitomized  and 
finally  enlarged  in  book  form  — 649 —  Sentido  y  Forma  del  Qui- 
jote (Madrid:  Insula,  1949). 

Casalduero  tries  untiringly  to  find  out  also  the  structural  prin- 
ciple of  the  other  works  of  Cervantes  by  his  particular  type  of 
running  commentaries  in  — 650 —  Sentido  y  forma  de  las  novelas 
ejemplares  (Buenos  Aires:  Instituto  de  Filologia,  1943)  — 651 — 
Sentido  y  forma  de  Los  Trabajos  de  Persiles  y  Sigismunda 
(Buenos  Aires:  Editorial  Sudamericana,  1947),  — 652 —  "La 
Numancia,"  NRFH,  II  (1948),  71-87,  and  —653—  "Los  tratos 
de  Argel,"  CL,  II  (1950),  31-63  (see  also  no.  1543).  Whereas 
Casalduero  aims  at  a  wholesale  analysis  of  composition,  always 


114  Style  Transcending  Language  654-660 

informed  by  a  pattern  of  the  Baroque  preconceived  and  never 
explained,  one  finds  more  painstaking  structure  studies  in  Leo 
SPITZER  —654—  "Das  Gefuge  einer  Cervantinischen  Novelle," 
ZRP,  LI  (1931),  194-225,  concerning  El  Celoso  Extremeno,  and 
Am^rico  CASTRO  —655—  "El  Celoso  Extremeiio  de  Cer- 
vantes/' S,  XVII  (1947),  45-75.  Spitzer  goes  from  structure 
into  the  meaning  of  love  and  marriage  in  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, and  later  finds  an  historical  support  of  his  stylistic-struc- 
tural interpretation  through  the  study  of  Marcel  Bataillon,  "Cer- 
vantes et  le  'mariage  chretien',"  BH,  XLIX  (1947),  129-144. 
Castro,  by  comparing  the  two  versions  of  this  short  story,  proves 
that  the  more  functional  and  organic  style  of  the  second  version 
reflects  the  natural  role  of  sexual  love  in  the  mind  of  Cervantes. 
Harri  MEIER  — 656 —  "Personenhandlung  und  G^schehen  in 
Cervantes  'Gitanilla',"  RF,  LI  (1937),  125-186,  links  epic  to 
verbal  problems.  Antonio  PANESSO  ROBLEDO  —657— 
Poesia  y  arte  de  la  novela  cervantina,  Universidad  de  Antioquia, 
1948,  repeats  with  centones  from  Vossler,  Ortega  y  Gasset,  Croce, 
Unamuno,  Savij  Lopez  and  Castro  meaningless  formulas  to  cir- 
cumscribe the  style  of  Cervantes'  narrative  art  as  impresionismo 
barroco. 

Contents  and  style  of  Mateo  Aleman's  Rogue  Novel,  inter- 
preted as  a  problem  story,  aroused  the  interest  of  Enrique 
MORENO  BAEZ  — 658 —  Leccion  y  sentido  del  Guzman  de 
Alfarache  (Madrid:  Instituto  Miguel  de  Cervantes,  1948).  The 
reader,  however,  is  very  much  disillusioned  when,  after  the  dis- 
quisitions on  Baroque  style  and  Tridentine  style  in  the  first  chap- 
ter, no  single  formal  problem  is  dealt  with  except  the  vague 
"gusto  por  lo  ornamental"  (p.  171).  Leo  SPITZER  —659— 
"Die  Kunst  Quevedos  in  seinem  Buscon,"  AR  (1927),  or  KRA,  II 
(1931),  48-125,  reviewed  extensively  in  LGRP  (1929),  cols.  277- 
279;  and  in  S,  IV  (1930),  163-172,  explained  in  a  most  striking- 
manner  the  style  and  composition  of  the  Don  Pablos  as  a  psy- 
chologico-stylistic  result  of  two  factors:  desire  for  the  world 
and  flight  from  the  world.  He  delineates  a  wealth  of  details  with 
ample  perspectives.  Without  any  reference  to  this  prototypical 
study,  Myron  A.  PEYTON  —660—  "Salas  Barbadillo's  Don 
Diego  de  Noche,"  PMLA,  LXIV  (1949),  484-506,  treats  his  topic 
in  similar  fashion  and  notes  as  "baroque'*  style  features :  cartoon 
art,  galvanic  actions,  strained  situations,  meretricious  display 
of  wit,  laconism,  self-conscious  efectismo,  compound  substan- 


661-664  Spain  and  Portugal  115 

tives  (Disciplinante  ginete),  metaphors  boldly  used,  things  an- 
tique in  humorous  light,  and  tenebroso-style. 

Gongora,  as  seen  above  (see  no.  81),  was  really  discovered 
and  interpreted  for  the  first  time  (in  a  delightful  prose  ver- 
sion) with  the  publication  of  the  — 661 —  Soledades,  edited  by 
DAmaso  ALONSO  (Madrid:  RO,  1927).  In  an  introduction  that 
goes  to  the  core  of  that  obscure  style,  Damaso  Alonso  explains, 
interprets  and  reveals  in  a  genial  manner  the  enigmatic  Gon- 
gorine  moods.  Ortega  y  Gasset  bestowed  upon  him  the  praise 
due  to  a  discoverer.  It  can  be  said  in  general  that  more  recent 
Gongorine  analyses  would  not  even  exist  if  it  were  not  for  this 
basic  study  that  brought  Spain  into  the  lists  of  modern  stylistics. 
Damaso  Alonso  himself  has  reprinted  the  stylistic-structural  re- 
sults of  his  inquiry  in  — 662 —  "Claridad  y  belleza  de  las 
'Soledades',"  EPE,  180-216: 

Iluminada  plenitud  ....  Herror  de  vida  idealizada  .  .  .,  bullir 
<le  colores,  huracanos  y  remansos  de  armonia  .  .  .,  lo  conciso  dentro 
de  cada  particula  de  lo  pomposo  (p.  214). 

In  Leo  SPITZER  —663—  "Zu  G6ngoras  Soledades,"  VKR,  III 
(1930),  244-258,  and  KRA,  II  (1931),  126-140,  only  the  dedica- 
tion to  the  Duke  of  Bejar  is  studied,  because  the  author  wants  to 
show,  by  means  of  a  small  but  skilful  selection  from  a  great 
work,  how  it  is  possible  to  attain  a  full  work  and  word  investiga- 
tion. Spitzer  has  repeatedly  expressed  his  desire  to  call  this  type 
of  stylistic  studies  Wort  und  Werk  Forschung  in  analogy  to 
Wbrter  und  Sachen  of  the  folkloric-linguistic  investigation.  Is 
it  possible,  however,  to  get  the  structure  of  a  work  from  a  selec- 
tion of  so  small  an  extension  that  Spitzer  himself  calls  it  a  lit- 
erary "blood  test"  only?  Spitzer,  after  all,  finds  in  this  selection 
the  cooperation  of  grandiloquence  and  breviloquence,  fictitious 
metaphors,  paradoxes,  and  new  "embroideries"  of  words.  He 
discovers  on  one  hand  Gongora's  plenitude  of  form  and  his  sense 
of  the  objective,  and  on  the  other  his  abstraction  and  vision  of 
distance.  These  forces  do  not  reveal  a  mystic  obscurity  but 
rather  a  game  of  hide-and-seek,  which  means  that  hermetism 
is  linked  to  tricks. 

Walther  PABST  —664,—  "Gongoras  Schopfung  in  seinen 
Gedichten  Polifemo  und  Soledades,"  RH,  LXXX  (1930),  1-229, 
in  contra-distinction  to  Spitzer,  tried  to  revindicate  Gongorism 
as  a  great  creation  of  art,  ideologically  conditioned.    He  is  able 


116  Style  Transcending  Language  665-668 

to  show  how  a  sensuous  nature  steeped  in  classical  learning  and 
driving  at  abstract  presentation  is  bound  to  produce  a  series  of 
enigmatic,  bewitching  dream  pictures  in  which  those  three  in- 
forming forces  are  kept  in  a  marvelous  balance.  Manuel  DE 
MONTOLlU  — 665 —  "El  sentido  arquitectonico  y  musical  en  la 
obra  de  G6ngora,"  BAE,  (1948),  69-88,  has  made  the  most  use- 
ful classifications  for  the  penetration  of  G6ngora,s  art.  The 
architectonic  sonetos  are  recognized  according  to  the  word  ar- 
rangement as  "sonetos-ramillete  o  paralelisticos,,,  "sonetos- 
cohete  con  una  sorpresa  .  .  .  en  un  chiste  final,"  "sonetos  en  es- 
piral,"  and  "con  imagenes  en  cadena" ;  the  musical  sonnets  are 
described  as  basically  "bimembres,"  "trimembres"  and  "quin- 
quimembres,"  in  their  endecasilabos,  and  "perfectos"  in  their 
sound  combinations  pleasing  to  the  most  refined  ear.  Pablo 
GARCIA  DfAZ  —666—  "El  gongorismo  en  la  poesia  de  Pedro 
de  Ona,"  A,  IV  (1947),  66-75,  shows  how  Pedro  de  Ona,  by  imi- 
tating the  metaphorical  and  creative  method  of  G6ngora,  has 
introduced  violent  dissonances  into  his  cultismos  (lubrica,  hor- 
rido,  ceruleo,  hebdomada) .  He  overdoes  the  alliteration  and 
the  dieresis,  while  the  hyperbaton  is  mild  and  rare  and  the  metri- 
cal symmetry  poor.  Ona  prefers  in  his  Arauco  domado  the  color 
green,  whereas  Gongora  delights  in  red  and  white.  Like  Gon- 
gora  he  loves  sensuous  nature  and  artistic  detail,  but  neverthe- 
less he  may  be  called  only  an  unconscious  imitator  of  G6ngora. 

DAmaso  ALONSO  —667—  "La  poesia  de  Don  Luis  Carrillo,', 
EPE,  247-60,  fixed  the  position  of  this  lighter  "obscure"  poet 
who  died  so  young  (1583-1610),  as  a  belated  classic  of  the  Her- 
rera  type  with  tastes  like  Gongora,  but  also  like  Quevedo  in 
structure  and  style.  Determination  of  his  place  in  literary  his- 
tory thus  becomes  a  means  for  a  sketchy  analysis  of  his  art. 
Emilio  ALARCOS  —668—  "Los  sermones  de  Paravicino,"  RFE, 
XXIV  (1937-40),  162-197  and  249-319,  analyzes  Paravicino's 
art  and  comes  to  the  following  important  conclusions : 

Hay  agudeza  del  pensamiento  y  cultura  de  la  expresion  .  .  ., 
la  atraccion  de  elementos  dispares  e  inconexos  en  tomo  .  .  .,  un 
punto  central  para  la  expresion  de  la  idea,  ya  en  el  piano  de  la 
belleza,  ya  en  el  de  lo  grotesco  o  la  f  raldad.  Todo  ello  para  lograr 
una  expresion  que,  a  la  vez  que  provoque  sorpresa  y  maravilla  en 
el  labor  del  oyente,  suscite  en  el  placer  sensorial  por  los  valores 
musicales  y  pictoricos  de  la  forma  verbal  y  deleite  intelectual,  por 
la  complejidad  ideologica  que  suponen  las  relaciones  establecidas 
entre  terminos  di versos  y  ale j  ados. 


669-675  Spain  and  Portugal  117 

The  art  of  Calderon  found  an  enthusiast  in  Max  KOMMER- 
ELL  — 669 —  Beitrage  zu  einem  deutschen  Calderon.  I.  Etwus 
iiber  die  Kunst  Colder 6ns  (Frankfurt:  Klostermann,  1946). 
Kommerell's  remarks  are  new  and  profound  and  represent  an 
enrichment  as  far  as  Calderon-stylistics  is  concerned.  He  stresses 
the  poet's  treasury  of  signs  and  symbols  which  are  used  in  nu- 
merous configurations,  always  avoiding  and  transcending  reality  > 
changing  antiquity  and  fables  by  a  supernatural  Catholic  view 
into  something  quite  poetic  and  strange.  Thus  he  creates,  and 
even  with  humor,  a  second  reality  which  has  its  exclusive  raison 
d'etre  in  art. 

3.     Nineteenth  and  Twentieth  Centuries 

The  studies  of  the  art  of  modern  Spanish  authors  have  a 
sporadic  character  and,  as  in  the  French  field,  stress  the  search 
for  the  consciously  artistic  means.  Among  the  Romantics,  Nunez 
de  Arce  was  naively  treated  by  Josefina  Romo  ARREGU1 
— 670 —  Vida,  poesia  y  estilo  de  Don  Gdspar  Nunez  de  Arce 
(Madrid,  1946),  and  Becquer  by  A.  BERENGUER  CARISOMO 
— 671 —  La  prosa  de  Becquer  (Buenos  Aires:  Hachette,  1947), 
with  stress  on  sources  and  originality.  There  is  a  study  by 
LuiSA  REVUELTA  Y  REVUELTA  —672—  "Valera  estilista," 
BAC,  XVII  (1946),  25-71,  and  an  American  dissertation  by 
Frank  B.  THOMPSON  —673—  The  Classicism  of  Juan  Valera, 
Diss.  Wisconsin,  1941.  Thompson  in  his  style  chapter  on  pp. 
116-161  is  very  precise  in  the  characterization  of  Valera's  even 
and  unchanged  rhythm  which  conveys  the  smoothness  of  a  lul- 
laby. The  perfect  idioms  and  the  art  of  balancing  the  character- 
ization by  direct  and  indirect  means  prevent  the  tune  of  speech 
from  intruding  into  the  report.  The  careful  balancing  of  epi- 
thets in  the  substantive  and  adjective  groups  conveys  a  further 
classical  element  to  the  presentation.  A  refined  selective-styl- 
istic study  dedicated  to  the  creator  of  modern  esoteric  Hispanic 
poetry  was  done  by  Pedro  SALINAS  — 674 —  La  poesia  de 
Ruben  Dario  (Buenos  Aires:  Losada,  1948). 

Enrique  ANDERSON  IMBERT  —675—  El  arte  de  la  prosa 
en  Juan  Montalvo  (Mexico:  Colegio  de  Mexico,  1948),  had  the 
inspiring  idea  of  investigating  the  work  of  the  man  famous  for 
his  Capitulos  que  se  olvidaron  a  Cervantes  (1882),  i.e.  the  man- 
nerism of  the  best  technical  imitator  of  Cervantes.  But  he 
found  that  Montalvo  copies  still  more  from  Chateaubriand  and 


118  Style  Transcending  Language  676-677 

many  other  literary  figures.  These  imitations  range  from  the 
pastiche  to  the  free  "modo  de  andar  mimetizador."  The  purist 
Montalvo  kept  aloof  from  living  language.  Anderson  Imbert, 
pupil  of  A.  Alonso  and  Henriquez  Urefia,  has  a  sure  grasp  on  the 
stylistic  method.  He  distinguishes  also  Montalvo's  essayistic 
mechanism  as  opposed  to  novelistic  new  creation;  he  analyzes 
his  mannerism  of  "poetizacion  convencional  de  lo  bonito,"  his 
pessimistic  handling  of  the  truculent  elements,  his  presentation 
of  nature  through  patterns  from  literature;  he  analyzes  his 
frases  hechas  and  locuciones  endurecidas,  his  search  for  all 
imaginable  rhythmical  and  melodious  forms,  and  for  romantic 
neologisms  (blancosidad,  longeviviente,  empoetizar) .  Concha 
MELeNDEZ  —676—  "El  arte  de  Jorge  Isaacs  en  'Maria',"  A,  I 
(1945),  69-86,  analyzes  certain  stylistic  aspects  such  as  descrip- 
tion of  the  house,  nature,  animals,  light,  negroes,  time  elements, 
and  discusses  the  imitation  of  Chateaubriand  and  Becquer  by 
Isaacs. 

Amado  ALONSO  — 677 —  "Estructura  de  las  sonatas  de  Valle- 
Inclan,"  V,  XXI  (1928),  7-42,  describes  and  evaluates  the  char- 
acteristic traits  in  the  art  of  the  Valle-Inclan  of  the  first  epoch- 
He  shows  how  in  the  Sonatas  the  three  themes  of  Love,  Death, 
and  Religion  are  intimately  linked  in  a  symphony,  within  an 
aesthetic  frame  free  from  any  life  struggle.  This  is  accomplished 
by  means  of  vague  evocations  in  which  the  changing  images,  the 
meaning  and  the  music  of  the  words — even  when  referring  to 
one  of  the  three  subjects  only — suggest  in  the  distance  the  musi- 
cal echo  of  the  other  two.  The  choice  of  vocabulary  proclaims 
these  characteristics  with  special  evidence ;  thus  in  the  reflexive 
aparecerse  (for  aparecer)  the  supernatural  is  insinuated,  in 
reservar  (for  conservar)  the  archaic;  in  anubascado  (for  anu- 
barrado) ,  the  hostile  scenery  (cf.  chubasco,  nevasca,  ventisca) . 
The  evocation  of  a  second  plan  is  possible  also  through  the  use 
of  an  adjective  "que  abarca  simultaneamente  la  mimica  y  la 
entonaci6n.,,  This  is  the  case  in  general  with  the  adjectives  ac- 
companying the  noun  voz,  particularly  at  the  beginning  of  a 
dialogue :  voz  balsdmica;  otra  voz  secreta  como  en  un  confesion- 
ario;  dijo  con  evangelica  voz.  The  predilection  of  Valle-Inclan 
for  the  triple  note  as  an  expression  of  the  three  subject  matters 
comes  to  the  fore  in  innumerable  forms :  triple  complemento  di- 
recto  o  circunstancial,  triple  subjeto,  triple  expresion  verbal, 
triple   subordination,   triple   adjetivacion,   triple  pincelada  de- 


678-682  Spain  and  Portugal  119 

scriptiva.  In  order  to  sustain  at  least  a  tripartite  rhythm  if  the 
third  adjective  is  missing,  the  second  one  is  followed  by  a  com- 
parison that  "seems  to  take  the  place,  musically,  of  the  third 
member  of  the  favorite  enumeration."  At  the  end  of  this  bril- 
liant study,  A.  Alonso  places  the  "sobrevalorizacion  de  la  tecnica" 
as  the  style  characteristic  of  Valle-Inclan. 

Gunter  HEINRICH  — 678 —  Die  Kunst  des  Don  Ramon 
Maria  del  Valle-Inclan,  Diss.  Rostock,  1938,  was  not  even  aware 
that  many  years  earlier  Amado  Alonso  had  practically  done  the 
work  he  himself  now  wanted  to  do.  This  fact  leaves  Heinrich's 
study  scarcely  worth  mentioning.  Arthur  L.  OWEN  — 679 — 
"Sobre  el  arte  de  Don  Ramon  del  Valle-Inclan,"  H,  VI  (1923), 
69-80,  believed  that  the  sophisticated  art  of  Don  Ramon  de- 
veloped only  in  his  later  works,  while  William  L.  FICHTER 
_680—  "Primicias  estilisticas  de  Valle-Inclan,"  RHM,  VIII 
(1942),  289-298,  can  prove  that  from  the  early  short  stories 
called  Femeninas  the  select  vocabulary,  the  triptychs  of  adjec- 
tives, substantives  and  verbs — in  short,  a  stylized  prose  as  op- 
posed to  a  prosa  liana — did  exist.  A.  ALONSO  analyzes  in 
__681—  "Paul  Groussac,  estilista,"  S,  III  (1929),  327-341,  the 
verbal  art  of  a  rationalistic,  erudite,  contemporary  critic.  In  a 
concise  and  synthetic  form  are  presented  the  masculatura  dis- 
cursiva,  the  rhythm,  that  is  "esa  doble  vertiente  de  la  frase  y  ese 
momento  culminante  de  la  intensidad  que  es  como  el  disparo  del 
arte,"  and  the  scarcity  of  images  in  the  writings  of  this  French- 
man, Latin-American  by  choice  only. 

Y.  Pino  SAAVEDRA  — 682 —  La  poesia  de  Julio  Herrera  y 
Reissig.  Sus  temas  y  su  estilo  (Santiago :  Prensas  de  la  Universi- 
dad  de  Chile,  1932),  believes,  together  with  the  author  whom  he 
studies,  that  the  topic  itself  provides  for  its  form  "ni  mas  ni 
menos  que  como  en  un  molde  preciso  y  pulcro  la  cera  caliente." 
Thus  he  tries  to  show  that  Herrera  y  Reissig's  exotic  and  hyper- 
aesthetic  visions,  his  fantastic  idylls  and  oriental  hallucinations, 
though  nourished  by  a  realistic  world,  melt  into  sounds  and  para- 
doxical colors  (lagrimas  lilas),  rare  epithets  (boca  cleopatrina) , 
and  a  particular  type  of  comparison  and  metaphor,  namely 
aquella  comparacion  en  que  los  objetos  comparados  provienen 
de  una  realidad  creada  y  modelada  por  la  fantasia 

and 

la  metafora   en   que   el   proceso   translaticio   tiene   por   objeto 
rehuir  la  esfera  comun. 


120  Style  Transcending  Language  683-686 

Amado  ALONSO  — 683 —  "Un  problema  estilistico  en  Don 
Segundo  Sombra,"  N  (July  27,  1930),  shows  that  in  Guiraldes' 
magnificent  novel  the  structural  problem  was  to  "producir  en 
forma  narrativa  la  vision  de  Gauchos  y  Pampa  como  un  mundo- 
barco  desde  dentro,  embarcado  en  el  y  olvidada  la  ribera."  The 
entire  general  problem  of  the  expression  depends  on  this  close 
vision  which  is  the  germ  and  marrow  of  the  novel.  Guiraldes 
needed  for  his  new  purposes  a  new  style: 

his  fortunate  invention  consisted  in  having  elaborated  in  lit- 
erary fashion  the  spoken  language  of  the  learned  provincials  in- 
stead of  agauchar  the  general  literary  speech. 

A.  Alonso  confirmed  this  with  a  technical  study  of  the  nomen- 
clature and  orthography,  choice  of  words  and  avoidance  of  the 
pastiche,  and  planned  the  continuation  of  this  study  by  the  study 
of  Guiraldes*  use  of  verbal  tenses  for  his  narrative  purposes. 

Ulrich  LEO  — 684 —  "La  invencion  en  la  no  vela.  Apuntes 
acerca  de  la  trayectoria  estilistica  de  Romulo  Gallegos,"  RNC,  V 
(1943),  particularly  no.  39,  pp.  71-91,  shows  how  the  author  in 
Pobre  Negro  has  a  quite  different  style  from  that  in  his  master- 
work  Dona  Barbara,  analyzed  by  Ulrich  Leo  — 685 —  "Dona 
Barbara,  Obra  de  arte,"  in  his  Estudios  Filologicos  (Caracas: 
Elite,  1942),  29-67.  Gallegos  seems  to  Leo  always  the  prisoner 
of  his  own  fiction  and  the  literary  genus  he  chose ;]  therefore  he 
suppresses  feelings  and  sympathies  which  are  possible  only  when 
he  is  confronting  a  real  historical  person  and  not  an  invented 
one.  He  avoids  the  style  of  biography  in  a  product  of  avowed 
fiction.  It  is  the  picturesque  language  itself  sometimes  which 
plays  the  part  of  the  "viewpoint"  of  the  author. 

As  far  as  the  modernista  art  in  general  is  concerned,  Amado 
Alonso's  already  mentioned  Poesia  y  estilo  de  Pablo  Neruda  (no. 
79)  is  much  more  than  an  interpretacidn  de  una  poesia  her- 
metica.  The  analysis  is  primarily  concerned  with  problems 
similar  to  those  treated  by  Pino  Saavedra  (no.  682) ,  e.g.  Neruda's 
comparisons,  where 

lo  comparado  contribuye  eficazmente  a  la  fisionomia  onirica  de 
los  pensamientos,  pues  tambien  es  proprio  del  pensamiento  de  los 
suefios  el  que  una  representacion  de  realidad  sea  a  la  vez  illus- 
trativa  y  susplantadora  de  otra  realidad  representada  (p.  286). 

Using  a  similar  method,  Leo  SPITZER  —686 —  "El  concep- 
tismo  interior  de  Pedro  Salinas,"  RHM,  VII  (1941),  33-69,  has 


687-690  Spain  and  Portugal  121 

shown  that,  through  the  medium  of  his  art,  Salinas  is  the  tragic 
poet  with  spiritual  aspirations  in  a  godless  world.  Almost  de- 
spairing, he  is  looking  for  a  truer  and  higher  reality  in  woman 
as  the  partner  of  love — in  her,  beyond  her  ("detras,  detras,  mas 
alia"),  within  himself,  in  his  innermost  being,  beyond  himself. 
He  does  not  find  the  metaphysical  desideratum  he  is  looking  for. 
Nevertheless  he  refuses  decidedly  to  acknowledge  the  world  of 
the  materialists  as  the  reality,  and  continues  to  propagate  ideal- 
ization, escape,  exaltation.  In  spite  of  apparently  quiet  descrip- 
tive poems,  his  fiery  humor  believes  only  in  abstract  beauty : 

Para  vivir  no  quiero 
islas,  palacios,  torres, 
Que  alegria  mas  alta: 
vivir  en  los  pronombres! 

As  far  as  such  studies  are  undertaken  by  amateurs  or  begin- 
ners or  critics  in  a  more  synthetic  mood,  they  necessarily  lack 
these  manifold  aspects,  and  often  remain  on  the  level  of  the 
analysis  of  technique  and  not  of  form  and  art.  Particular  tech- 
niques are,  of  course,  provocative  of  study.  Thus  MANUEL 
GRANELL  —687—  Estetica  de  Azorin  (Madrid:  Biblioteca 
Nueva,  1949)  tries  desperately  to  distinguish  an  impressionistic, 
expressionistic  and  magic  landscape  style  in  this  author.  Don 
Juan  RAM6N  JIMENEZ  —688—  "El  unico  estilo  de  Eugenio 
Florit,,,  RC  (Abril-Julio,  1937),  10-16,  tries  to  make  clear  that 
Eugenio  Florit  in  his  Martirio  de  San  Sebastian  disposes  of  "una 
fijeza  deleitable  intelectual,"  which  distinguishes  him  from  Garcia 
Lorca,  D'Annunzio,  and  Alexander  Sakarof. 

Amado  ALONSO  —689—  "Jorge  Guillen,  poeta  esencial,"  N 
(Abril  21,  1929),  was  able  to  show  how  the  poet  Jorge  Guillen 
selects  his  means  of  expression  in  such  a  way  that  he  does  not 
seize  the  transitory,  but  rather  the  essential.  He  describes  Guil- 
len's poetry  as  an  inward  glance  at  things  perishable,  the  es- 
sence of  which  he  yearns  to  grasp.  The  stylistic  means  to  reach 
this  goal  is  the  choice  of  organic  central  abstracts,  the  trium- 
phant nominal  sentence,  and  the  syntactical  immediateness  of 
this  sentence  built  with  blocks  like  the  old  aqueduct  of  Segovia. 
Everything  is  dominated  by  one  sense:  the  eye,  not  only  the 
poet's,  but  ours.  JoAQUfN  CASALDUERO  — 690 —  Jorge  Guil- 
len, Cdntico  (Santiago  de  Chile:  Cruz  del  Sur,  1946),  is  rather 


122  Style  Transcending  Language  691-693 

an  admirer  than  too  critical  an  analyzer  of  Guillen  whose  abstract 
lyricism  apparently  reflects  his  sublimation  of  sensuality 
and  his  attempt  to  diminish  his  fear  of  death.  Casalduero  dis- 
covers in  the  Mallarme  imitations  of  Jorge  Guillen  a  particular 
kind  of  poesia  pura.  In  the  poet's  erotic  interpretation  of  nature 
he  sees  myth ;  in  his  modern  fear  and  lack  of  belief,  as  philosophi- 
cally described  by  Heidegger,  he  tries  to  recognize  a  nueva  con- 
ception del  presente  and  exaltation  del  ser.  Casalduero  never 
takes  time  out  to  make  correct  word  lists  as  the  formal  inventory 
of  the  themes,  but  is  satisfied  with  "algunas  palabras  con  que 
Jorge  Guillen  compone."  The  formulas  therefore  are  not  satis- 
factory: "Es  una  poesia  que  se  eleva  con  aplomo,"  (p.  26). 
Sometimes  one  believes  that  an  artistic  structural  principle  is 
discovered,  but  in  reality  contents  only  are  circumscribed,  e.g. 
"La  perspectiva  de  Panorama  es  de  arriba  abajo."  The  illus- 
tration is  the  following  text: 

El  caserio  se  entiende 

con  el  reloj  de  la  torre 

Para  que  ni  el  viento  enmiende 

Ni  la  luz  del  viento  borre 

La  claridad  del  sistema 

Que  su  panorama  extrema. 

We  learn  at  least  that  there  is  an  "orden  luminosamente  clara," 

"por  un  mundo  de  pianos  y  numeros" : 

Tumba.     Niada.     Nadie. 
Pero  .  .  .?  Tu  conmigo? 

What  could  be  said  about  the  art  of  Jorge  Guillen  after  A. 
Alonso,  was  said  in  concise  though  banal  fashion  by  Ruth 
WHITTREDGE  —691—  "The  Poetic  World  of  Jorge  Guillen" 
RR,  XXXIX  (1948),  140-145:  "The  intense  emotion  felt  in  being 
is  reflected  in  the  intensity  of  style  of  all  of  Cantico  .  .  . :  the  ex- 
pression of  his  joy  in  reality  and  life"  (p.  145).  Am£rico 
CASTRO  —692—  "Cantico  de  Jorge  Guillen,"  Ex-Insula,  I 
(1943) ,  3-16,  gave  a  more  adequate  appraisal  of  this  work  already 
too  much  discussed.  Josti  MarIa  VALVERDE  — 693 —  "Pleni- 
tud  critica  de  la  poesia  de  Jorge  Guillen,"  Clavileno,  I  (Julio- 
Agosto,  1950),  44-50,  repeating  Amado  Alonso's  label  "Jorge 
Guillen,  poeta  esencial,"  finds  an  evolution  from  the  first  Cantico 
with  one  single  imperfect  to  the  Cantico,  fe  de  Vida  (1945),  with 


694-698  Spain  and  Portugal  123 

54  imperfects.  This  evolution  reflected  in  the  tenses  goes  from 
the  philosophical  to  the  human.  The  speculative  propensities 
for  an  attainable  perfection  seem  to  Valverde  expressed  by  the 
recurrent  particle  and  the  craving  for  a  Ser  which  is  not  God ;  it 
is  therefore  expressed  by  the  neuter  lo  which  continues  to  pre- 
vail throughout  Guillen's  poetry.  Less  technical  appraisals  are 
F.  A.  Pleak,  The  Poetry  of  Jorge  Guillen  (Princeton,  1942),  and 
R.  Gullon  y  Blecua,  La  poesia  de  Jorge  Guillen  (Zaragoza,  1949). 

A  first  study  of  the  style  of  the  Chilenian  poetess  Gabriela 
Mistral  has  been  made  by  Hans  FLASCHE  —694—  "Gabriela 
Mistral  und  ihre  Sprachkunst,"  Studia  Romanica  (Melanges 
Lerch)  Uraeh:  Pert,  in  print.  Amado  ALONSO  — 695 — 
"Borges.  Narrador,"  S,  V  (no.  10,  1935),  105-115,  epitomized, 
by  giving  convincing  examples,  the  narrative  art  of  the  contem- 
porary Argentinian  writer  Jorge  Luis  Borges,  in  his  Historia 
universal  de  la  infamia. 

As  for  Portuguese  structure  studies,  Fernando  SABOIA  DE 
MEDEIROS  — 696 —  Anthero  de  Quental.  Tecnica  e  inspiragdo 
de  sens  sonetos  (Rio  de  Janeiro:  A.  Noite,  1938),  sees  fine  "rap- 
prochements" (Dante,  Heredia)  and  endeavors  to  separate  the 
fundamentally  expressive  and  the  merely  decorative  elements  of 
style.  But  this  critic  does  not  see  the  exigencies  of  the  lyrical 
image  as  opposed  to  the  epic  one,  and  comes  to  ttie  following 
conclusion :  "A  essencia  do  estylo  antheriano  e  ser  intellectual  e 
vibratil.  As  vibracoes  sao  sentimentos  que  crystallizam  as 
ideias  em  imagens"  (p.  208). 

Wolfgang  KAYSER  —697—  "Stmikturanalyse  des  Trey 
Luiz  de  Sousa'  von  Almeida  Garrett,"  RF,  LXI  (1948),  89-106, 
fixes  with  modern  means  the  tragic  character  of  this  drama  of 
fatality,  whose  hero  is  the  family,  in  an  ominous  system  of  time 
and  space,  stressed  by  expressions  like  fatal,  funesto,  agourosf 
prognostico,  presentimentos,  desgraga,  etc.  Alfonso  DE  CAR- 
VALHO  — 698 —  A  poetica  de  Olavo  Bilac  (Rio  de  Janeiro: 
Civilisacjio  Brasileira,  1934) ,  has  a  very  naive  approach  to  the 
art  analysis  of  this  Parnassian  Brazilian  love  and  nature  poet 
(1865-1918).  But  his  distinctions  as  such  would  be  acceptable 
material  for  judging  literary  composition,  metre,  rhythm,  rhyme, 
plastic  and  onomatopoetic  coloring. 


124  Style  Transcending  Language  699-700 

C.    Italy 

The  Italians,  having  art  as  an  element  in  their  blood,  and 
following  by  instinct  the  great  artistic  analyst  of  literature,  Fran- 
cesco De  Sanctis,  are  naturally  bound  to  produce  relatively  good 
appreciations  of  literary  works.  The  modern  Italian  scholars  in 
stylistics,  however,  like  Bertoni  and  Schiaffini,  Di  Capua  and 
Malagoli,  consider  only  the  language.  Croce  and  his  followers, 
despite  their  theory,  have  contributed  to  style  and  structure 
studies  in  a  very  restricted  sense  only.  Thus  the  stylistically  in- 
formed studies  in  Italian  literary  art  are  mostly  connected  with 
the  Swiss  school  of  Zurich,  while  it  would  be  difficult  to  discover 
a  particular  method  for  critics  like  Devoto,  Falqui,  Fubini, 
Momigliano,  Rossi,  Contini,  or  Chiapelli. 

1.     Middle  Ages 

B.  CROCE  applied  in  1921  his  theories  formulated  in  — 699— 
Estetica  come  scienza  dell'espressione  e  linguistics  generate 
(Milan:  Sandron,  1902)  to  Dante's  poetry  — 700 —  La  Poesia  di 
Dante  (Bari :  Laterza,  1921 ;  fourth  edition,  1940) .  In  this  book, 
Croce  made  the  well-known  overstatement  that  the  Divine 
Comedy  itself  consists  of  poetry  and  non-poetry.  By  the  latter 
he  meant  unpoetical  parts  in  which  Dante  repeats  scholastic 
teachings  in  an  indigestible,  didactic  manner,  in  contrast  to 
truly  poetical  parts  in  which  the  very  cravings  of  his  soul  break 
through  in  a  lyricism  which  is  timeless  and  therefore  not  less 
delightful  for  the  modern  than  for  the  medieval  reader.  Croce's 
procedure  seemed  arbitrary  because  of  his  introducing  modern 
taste  as  the  criterion  for  the  value  of  the  different  parts  of 
Dante's  indivisible  work.  Croce  seemed  to  destroy  the  unity 
of  the  Commedia  and  to  deprive  it  of  its  fundamentally  epic 
character.  Nevertheless,  his  attempt  was  philological  in  nature, 
somewhat  like  a  "Chorizonten" -theory  as  far  as  poetry  and  non- 
poetry  were  concerned.  That  is  to  say,  it  was  similar  to  that 
of  the  older  Homer  scholars,  who  split  the  Odyssey  and  the  Iliad 
into  parts  belonging  to  different  poets.  Croce  actually  split  the 
Commedia  into  parts,  some  belonging  to  Dante  the  poet  and 
some  to  Dante  the  philosopher.  Certainly  Croce  left  to  the 
philologists  the  task  of  proving  the  existence  of  that  poetic 
unity  which  he  denied  the  Divine  Comedy.  Furthermore,  he 
urged  on  them  the  demonstration  of  the  inseparability  of  the 


701-707  Italy  125 

artistic  and  non-artistic  blocks.     Thus  he  provoked  a  whole 
series  of  discussions  on  the  structure  of  the  Commedia. 

W.  VETTERLI  has  critically  surveyed  the  different  attempts 
which  were  made  to  prove  such  unity  — 701 —  Die  asthetische 
Deutung  und  das  Problem  der  Einheit  der  Gbttlichen  Kombdie 
in  der  neueren  Literaturgeschichte  (Strasbourg:  Heitz,  1935). 
The  philological  proof  was  difficult  because  medieval  treatises  on 
poetics  do  not  busy  themselves  with  such  problems ;  and  the  evi- 
dence had  to  be  furnished  by  an  analysis  of  the  text,  not  differ- 
ent in  nature  from  Croce's  own  method.  Of  those  scholars  who 
used  the  stylistic  method  for  this  task,  the  most  effective  (not 
mentioned  by  Vetterli)  was  Ulrich  Leo.  Karl  VOSSLER  had 
stated  (Die  Gbttliche  Kombdie,  no.  22)  that  the  unity  of  the  Di- 
vine Comedy  consisted  only  in  Dante's  personality,  present 
throughout  the  three  cantos,  or  in  his  religious  belief,  the  latter 
point  stressed  in  his  — 702 —  Dante  als  religibser  Dichter  (Berne : 
Seldwyla,  1921).  Yet  he  weakened  the  value  of  his  thesis  by 
adding  that  the  reader's  interest  in  these  cantos  diminished  with 
the  decrease  of  picturesque  concreteness  in  the  presentation. 
Now  Ulrich  LEO  — 703 —  "Sehen  und  Schauen  bei  Dante.  Eine 
Stiluntersuchung,"  DDJ,  XI  (1929),  183-221,  recently  refined 
in  "The  Unfinished  Convivio,"  MS  (Toronto),  XIII  (1951),  41- 
64,  argued  that  this  concreteness  was  justified  in  the  Inferno, 
where  Dante,  with  unpurged  earthly  eyes,  sees  a  distorted 
earthly  world,  whereas,  with  the  progress  of  his  purification,  his 
view  turns  into  a  progressively  refined  mystical  vision.  This 
vision,  says  Leo,  is  reflected  by  the  apparent  paleness  and  vague- 
ness of  the  scenes  in  Purgatorio  and  Paradiso.  There  is  no 
break  at  all  in  the  unity  of  concept  and  style.  U.  Leo  repeated 
and  intensified  his  interpretation,  though  not  entirely  convinc- 
ing, in  — 704 —  "Ensayo  sobre  la  unidad  poetica  en  Dante,"  FLM, 
IV  (1941),  249-67,  and  in  —705—  "Realidad  y  intuici6n," 
FLM,  VI  (1943),  257-89. 

Not  so  very  differently  from  Leo,  LuiGl  TONELLI  —706 — 
Dante  e  la  poesia  delV  ineffabile  (Florence:  Barbera,  1934), 
finds  the  unity  precisely  in  theme  and  expression  of  the  ineffabile 
which,  he  admits,  appears  in  the  Inferno  as  the  fanciful  (mera- 
viglioso),  in  the  Purgatorio  as  the  superhuman  (sovrumano) 
and  in  the  Paradiso  as  the  ineffable  in  the  narowest  sense  (inef- 
fabile) .  Mario  ROSSI  — 707 —  Gusto  filologico  e  gusto  poetico. 
Questioni  di  critica  Dantesca  (Bari :  Laterza,  1942) ,  in  a  more 


126  Style  Transcending  Language  708-714 

theoretical  way,  has  demonstrated  that  Croce's  splitting  of  the 
Commedia  into  poetry  and  eschatology,  lyrics  and  a  theological 
novel  is  a  mirage,  because 

an  esthetic  unity  which  needs  the  support  of  an  external  struc- 
ture ceases  precisely  by  this  circumstance  to  be  conceivable  as  a 
true  esthetic  unity  and,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  just  the  presence 
of  the  other  worldly  motif  which  is  continually  producing  the 
poetry  of  the  Divine  Comedy  to  such  a  degree  that  this  poetry 
itself  results  in  structure. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  the  structural  and  lyrical  unity  of 
the  Divine  Comedy  has  become  the  primary  concern  of  Dante 
scholars. 

Michele  BARBI  became  famous  for  his  explosion  of  several 
"myths"  in  Dante  criticism  to  the  advantage  of  an  aesthetic- 
stylistic  viewpoint  in  his  — 708 —  "Nuovi  problemi  della  critica 
Dantesca,"  SD,  XXIII  (1938),  5-77.  Artur  FRANZ  published 
a  more  limited  structural  study  on  — 709 —  "Die  dichterische 
Einheit  des  Inferno,"  DDJ,  X  (1928).  Finally,  Theophil 
SPOERRI  —710—  Die  Struktur  des  Danteschen  Weltbildes. 
Festrede  des  Rektors  der  Universitdt  Zurich,  1949,  tried  to  in- 
corporate comparisons  and  paradox  into  the  structure  of  the 
poem  as  inner  necessities. 

Mario  MARTI  — 711 —  "Arte  e  poesia  nelle  rime  di  Guido 
Cavalcanti,"  Conv.  (1949),  178-195,  approaches  the  style  prob- 
lem very  competently  with  keywords,  psychological  versus  deco- 
rative reflexes,  sentiment  expressed  through  diminutives — in 
short  a  quite  modern  analysis  and  interpretation.  A  stylistic 
appreciation  of  San  Francesco  d'Assisi  comes  from  P.  Mar- 
CHELMO  REINDERS,  O.F.M.  —712—  "L'ispirazione  e  l'espres- 
sione  fonetica  nel  'Cantico  di  Frate  Sole',"  SF,  XXVII  (1930), 
217-26;  it  lacks,  however,  refinement  and  precision.  Stressing 
more  the  motifs,  Luigi  Foscolo  BENEDETTO  —713—  II  Can- 
tico di  Frate  Sole  (Firenze:  Sansoni,  1941),  moves  along  the 
margin  of  stylistics  only.  Giovanni  GETTO  — 714 —  Vmanita 
e  stile  di  Iacopo  Passavanti  (Milano:  Leonardo,  1943),  proves 
by  his  pertinent  remarks  on  style  (which  by  the  way  charac- 
terize all  the  literary  essays  of  this  scholar) ,  that  he  is  one  of  the 
few  systematic  Italian  analyzers  of  texts  with  artistic  views. 
He  stresses  the  geometrical  arrangement,  the  rich  vocabulary, 
the  difference  between  the  narrative  and  doctrinal  parts  in  the 
Specchio  di  penitenza  of  this  Dominican  friar. 


715-718  Italy  127 

Irene  STEIGER  — 715 —  Jacopone  da  Todi,  Welthass  und 
Gottesliebe,  Diss.  Zurich,  1945,  represents  an  extensive  study  of 
the  ecstatic  composition  and  style  of  the  Laude  of  this  Blessed 
poet.  Miss  Steiger  implies  a  somewhat  artificially  constructed 
tension  between  the  original  attraction  of  the  world  and  the 
later  asceticism  of  Fra  Jacopone.  When  these  forces  are  alleged 
to  become  elements  in  forming  his  style  it  cannot  but  remind  one 
of  Leo  Spitzer's  Weltsucht  und  Weltflucht  on  the  style  of 
Quevedo  (no.  659).  A  merely  technical  study  is  G.  CANTINI 
— 716 —  "La  tecnica  e  l'indole  del  sermone  medievale  ed  i  ser- 
moni  di  S.  Antonio  da  Padova,"  SF,  XXXI  (1934),  60-80,  and 
195-224 :  San  Antonio  is  one  of  the  most  subtle  preachers  as  far 
as  divisions  and  allegories  are  concerned,  but  one  of  the  most 
naturalistic  ones  in  descriptions. 

2.    Renaissance  and  Baroque 

The  highly  artistic  literary  products  in  the  period  from 
Petrarch  to  Tasso  have  thus  far  attracted  only  a  few  investiga- 
tors, despite  the  prototypical  structural  interests  which  those 
"well  wrought  urns"  usually  elicit.  Poorly  formal  is  the  French- 
Italianistic  study  by  Therese  LABANDE-JEANROY  —717— 
"La  technique  de  la  chanson  dans  Petraque,"  EI,  IX  (1927),  145- 
209.    The  result  is  very  meager : 

The  practice  of  Petrarch  consists  in  taking  a  strophe  of  a 
famous  chant  as  a  start  and  in  changing  it  slightly  in  order  to  get 
one  or  more  new  schemata  out  of  it   (p.  208). 

In  America,  Norman  C.  STRAGEBERG  —718—  "The  Aesthe- 
tic of  the  Petrarchan  Sonnet,,,  JAe,  VII  (1948) ,  132-137,  analyzed 
the  structure  of  this  most  precious  little  poetic  artefact  from 
the  viewpoint  of  the  perception  and  enjoyment  of  the  reader. 
There  is  a  main  overall  balance  between  octave  and  sestet  in  the 
form  of  an  asymmetrical  "golden  section,"  or  8 :6  (classical  norm 
8:5)  division,  the  sub-balances  of  strophe  groups  being  as  sym- 
metrical as  the  rhymes;  all  these  together  present  a  system  of 
equipollence  related  to  meaning.  Nearness,  likeness,  sequence 
and  closure  are  offered  by  the  Petrarchan  sonnet  as  stimuli 
aesthetically  of  the  first  order.  In  addition  the  rhymes  provide 
a  tectonic  system  and  a  melody,  i.e.  an  A-melody  increased  in 
tension  by  a  B-melody,  both  melodies  being  resolved  in  reverse 
order.  The  sestet  is  a  reprise  of  the  two  melodies  in  the  order  of 
their  beginnings  with  a  third  melody-C  added.    The  reader  pene- 


128  Style  Transcending  Language  719-724 

trating  intuitively  the  easy  scheme  is  pleasurably  satisfied  by  the 
return  of  expected  sounds. 

A  reedited  legacy  of  the  father  of  scholarly-artistic  criticism, 
Francesco  DE  SANCTIS  — 719 —  Saggio  critico  sul  Petrarca, 
a  cura  di  Nino  Cortese  (Napoli:  Morano,  1932),  made  clear  the 
poet's  serious  sincerity  behind  mythological  patterns,  his  gravity 
of  passion  behind  a  playful  platonism,  and  his  metaphorical 
aetherial  language  when  sketching,  instead  of  a  woman,  a  god- 
dess from  whom  beauty  irradiates  to  nature.  De  Sanctis  drew 
attention  to  Petrarch's  balancing  of  flagrantly  experienced  con- 
tradictions (Qui  tutta  umile  e  qui  la  vidi  altera),  and  to  his  half 
sensuous,  half  spiritual  similes  revealing  excitement  remembered 
in  tranquillity.  De  Sanctis'  imitator,  Giuseppe  PETRONIO 
— 720 —  II  Decamerone.  Saggio  Critico  (Bari:  Laterza,  1935), 
has  not  the  capacity  of  the  master  to  link  the  aesthetical  prob- 
lems intimately  with  the  ideological  interest.  He  understands, 
it  is  true,  that  he  studies  in  Boccaccio  the  art  of  the  stories,  but 
he  gets  lost  in  the  medieval  "armatura"  allegedly  containing  the 
modern  world.  The  artistic  Decameron  problems  overlooked 
in  this  study  get  some  light  from  Angelo  LIPARI  — 721 —  "The 
Structure  and  Real  Significance  of  the  Decameron,"  in  Essays  in 
Honor  of  Albert  Feuillerat  (Yale:  Univ.  Press,  1943).  Lipari 
declares  this  work  a  hymn  on  love.  Charles  S.  SINGLETON 
—722—  "On  Meaning  in  the  Decameron,"  /,  XXI  (1944),  117- 
124,  on  the  other  hand,  sees  in  the  Decamerone  only  a  work  of 
art  pour  Vart  without  any  "meaning."  Ferdinando  NERI 
— 723 —  "II  Disegno  ideate  del  Decamerone**  in  his  Storia  e 
poesia  (Torino:  Gambino,  1936),  53-60,  wants  to  discover  in  the 
Decamerone  a  hidden  cohesive  system  linking  Boccaccio's  novels 
according  to  a  plan:  Love,  Fortuna,  human  ingenuity.  This 
alleged  unity  is  then  opposed  to  Chaucer's  planless  isolation  of 
tales  in  the  Canterbury  Tales. 

An  appropriate  field  for  grasping  the  intimate  relation  be- 
tween art  and  mind  can  be  found  in  each  type  of  literature 
where  the  ideological  interest  is  so  overwhelming  that  the  poet 
himself  reveals  almost  constantly  the  bridges  between  thought 
and  form.  Therefore  Umberto  BISCOTTINI  —724—  Uarte  e 
Vanima  del  Morgante  (Livorno:  Giusti,  1932),  could  easily  show 
that  it  is  the  blunt  bourgeois  scepticism  of  the  Renaissance  that 
Pulci  expresses  in  the  "shamelessly  joyful  laughter  of  Margutte" 
as  well  as  in  "the  sparkling  eyes  of  Malagigi"  and  "in  the  subtle 


725-730  Italy  129 

dialectics  of  Astarotte"  (p.  107) .  The  latter,  at  the  same  time 
devil  and  "ideale  del  secolo,,,  is  contagious  for  whoever  meets 
him.  Thus  Rinaldo,  the  good  old  Renaut  de  Montauban,  turns 
out  to  be  almost  an  agnostic  philosopher  and  asks :  "Qual  mara- 
viglia?  Chi  piu  sa,  men  crede"  (p.  80).  The  search  for  stylis- 
tic-poetic formulas  which  are  not  quite  convincing  detracts  from 
the  value  of  the  study  by  E.  BIGI  — 725 —  La  poesia  del  Boiardo 
(Firenze:  Sansoni,  1941). 

The  carefully  studied  art  of  Poliziano  is  explained  in  more 
orderly  fashion  by  Otto  MAYR  — 726 —  "Von  der  dichterischen 
Technik  in  Polizians  Stanze  per  la  giostra,"  GRM,  XIX  (1927), 
350-373.  Mario  ROSSI  — 727 —  Baldassar  Castiglione.  La  sua 
personalita,  la  sua  prosa  (Bari:  Laterza,  1946),  analyzes  in  the 
second  part  of  this  book  (pp.  39-111),  in  the  Crocean-Vosslerian 
way,  that  prose  "che  gli  occhi  non  offesi  al  fondo  mena"  as  ex- 
pression of  the  author's  ideal  world,  as  a  form  of  "dover  essere" ; 
and  he  stresses  the  indissolubility  of  poetic  and  prose  elements 
in  this  work,  explaining  the  fioriture  as  sparks  of  virtuosity 
which  cannot  keep  in  line  with  the  intended  abstractness.  The 
72  pages  represent  a  beautiful  style  sketch  (see  no.  399) . 

Literary  works  with  a  "normal"  language,  if  they  are  the 
object  of  an  art  analysis,  are  mostly  subordinated  to  an  analysis 
of  composition  only,  since  the  language  problems  are  extremely 
difficult  to  grasp.  Thus  0.  RUHM  — 728 —  Ariostos  Rasender 
Roland.  Form  und  Aufbau,  Diss.  Wurzburg,  1938,  analyzed  only 
the  plan  of  the  Orlando  in  the  steps  of  Giuseppina  FUMA- 
GALLI  — 729 —  Unita  fantastica  dell'  Orlando  Furioso  (Mes- 
sina: Principato,  1933),  who  was  interested  in  this  work  from 
the  viewpoint  of  a  strict  architecture,  but  did  not  offer  much 
more  than  a  clever  retelling  of  the  story  with  some  truisms  as 
conclusions.  Walter  BINNI  — 730 —  Metodo  e  poesia  di  L. 
Ariosto  (Messina:  D'Anna,  1947),  deals  with  epic  form  from 
the  viewpoint  of  composition  and  characters.  But  he  works 
with  that  irresponsible  tendency  of  an  a  priori  combination  of 
art  appreciation  with  Geistesgeschichte.  Thus  the  playful  art 
of  Ariosto  becomes  a  Pre-Superrealism  and  letteratura  "impe- 
gnata,y : 

questa  liberazione  dal  mondo  sensibile  per  la  creazione  di  un 
sopramondo  di  perfezione  musicale  e  pure  caldo  di  sensibilita, 
lieve  di  una  leggerezza  insieme  metafisica  (sic!)  e  non  astratta 
(p.  118). 


130  Style  Transcending  Language  731-735 

The  examples  given  to  prove  this  are  devoid  of  any  convincing 
power. 

As  far  as  Machiavelli  is  concerned  Marianne  WEIKERT 
— 731 —  Die  literarische  Form  von  Machiavellis  'Principe' "  Diss. 
Wiirzburg,  1937,  did  a  poor  analysis  of  structure.  To  prove  the 
unity  of  II  Principe,  she  presses  her  self-made  subdivisions  into 
groups  of  five  unities  or  less,  which  she  presents  in  a  compli- 
cated chart  on  page  94.  Natale  BUSETTO  — 732 —  La  prosa 
del  Machiavelli  (Padova:  Editoria  Liviana,  n.d.),  is  only  a 
sampling  of  texts  introduced  by  remarks  on  the  diversity  of 
Machiavelli's  prose  in  his  different  works,  but  stresses  the  style 
of  II  Principe  as  not  being  rhetorical;  popular  and  lyrical  ele- 
ments, provoked  by  the  author's  emotional  interest  in  the  sub- 
ject matter,  disturb  and  change  the  academic  procedure.  Valerio 
MARIANI  — 733 —  Poesia  del  Michelangelo  (Roma,  1941),  ex- 
plains the  style  of  his  Rime  as  scmlptural  forms  of  literature 
based  on  the  central  motifs  of  Night  and  Death. 

A  better  opportunity  for  a  joint  investigation  of  thought, 
structure,  and  expression  of  details  is  offered  when  baroque 
works  of  literary  art  are  at  issue.  Therefore  Carmelo  PRE- 
VITERA,  in  his  rather  old-fashioned  book  — 734 —  La  poesia 
e  Varte  di  Torquato  Tasso  (Messina-Milano,  1936),  particularly 
in  the  chapter  "L'elocuzione  e  lo  stile,"  127-141,  could  explain 
vaguely  Tasso's  musical-rhythmical  artificiality  as  "espressione 
di  una  complessa  vita-  spirituale"  (p.  131) .  This  was  done  much 
better  by  Ulrich  Leo  (see  no.  1181).  Carmelo  SGROI  —735 — 
Coscienza  artistica  di  Vittorio  Alfieri  (Bologna:  Zuffi,  1949) 
deals  on  pp.  169-178  with  "Lo  stile  e  la  forma  artistica."  As 
Alfieri  speaks  about  a  "tragic"  versus  a  "lyric"  style  concept  in 
his  Risposta  al  Casalbigi  and  in  his  Note  alia  lettera  al  Cesar- 
otti,  Sgroi  shows  that  Alfieri,  the  poet,  is  torn  between  the  stile 
naturale  (which  is  too  close  to  prose) ,  the  stile  ricercato  (which 
may  jeopardize  the  meaning  and  rhythm  by  stilted  word  order) , 
the  stile  stentato  (which  has  recourse  to  the  inexact  word)  and 
the  stile  dignitoso.  U.  Leo,  "Der  Dichter  Alfieri,"  RJ,  IV  (1951) , 
315-41,  solves  structure  problems  best. 

3.     Nineteenth  and  Twentieth  Centuries 

There  are  not  many  Italian  studies  on  structure  for  recent 
centuries.  One  must  know,  however,  that  problems  of  structure 
have  been  touched  in  many  monographs,  e.g.  Attilio  Momigliano's 


736-740  Italy  131 

Manzoni.  Gina  ALANI  — 736 —  La  struttura  dei  Promessi 
Sposi,  Diss.  Zurich  (Bern:  Francke,  1948),  analyzes  "il  felice 
connubio  tra  racconto  e  descrizione  della  natura"  (p.  9).  As 
far  as  nature  is  concerned,  light,  colors,  distance,  and  linearity 
are  considered  in  the  evocation  of  streets,  vineyards,  etc.  The 
ethical  and  aesthetical  elements  find  an  ideal  penetration 
into  the  action.  The  material  world  actually  is  transformed  by 
characters  like  Federico  Borromeo  and  Padre  Cristoforo.  The 
other  persons  are  chosen  for  the  crisis,  the  counteraction  and  the 
prodding  of  the  action.  Life  and  Eternity  are  balanced  and 
mutually  reflected.  Privacy  grows  into  history  by  a  building  up 
of  narrower  and  larger  concentric  circles  of  presentation.  Styl- 
istic remarks  on  tenses  and  rhythm  are  added.  Attilio  MOMI- 
GLIANO,  "L'arte  di  Carlo  Porta,"  in  his  — 737 —  Introduzione 
ai  poeti  (Tumminello,  1946),  161-171,  gives  an  excellent  con- 
densation of  his  book  L'opera  di  Carlo  Porta,  showing  Porta's 
picturesque,  straight-forward  story-telling  in  verse.  His  art 
avoids  the  obscene  in  having  the  rougher  things  said  by  wanton 
and  rascal  heroes  whose  characters  are  taken  seriously. 

Reto  R.  BEZZOLA  — 738 —  Spirito  e  forma  net  canti  di  Gia- 
como  Leopardi  (Bologna:  Zanichelli,  1930),  interprets  Leopardi's 
art  in  a  new  and  prolific  manner.  Although  inadequate  at  times, 
his  illustrating  of  artistic  details  by  examples  is  very  convincing. 
Aldo  DURO  — 739 —  Linguistica  e  poetica  del  Tommaseo  (Pisa: 
Vallerini,  1942) ,  has  an  analytical  but  sweeping  chapter,  "L'arte- 
fice  di  versi  e  di  prose"  (216-258),  in  which  he  states:  "Uno 
studio  sulle  similitudini  adoperate  dal  Tommaseo  riuscirebbe 
.  .  .  utile,  perche  sono  uni  degli  accorgimenti  stilistici  piu  ela- 
borati  da  lui."  Besides  Tommaseo's  metaphorism,  reflecting  the 
beauty  of  nature  and  the  soul  of  woman,  Duro  stresses  his  ellip- 
tic preciosity  and  his  aphoristic,  polemic  style.  Mario  PUPPO 
—740 —  Tommaseo  prosatore  (Roma:  Editrice  Studium,  1948), 
presents  a  careful  modern  study  of  the  antitheses,  similes,  epi- 
thets and  rhythms  of  Tommaseo's  prose,  which  is  interpreted  as 
the  expression  of  a  philologist  who  had  an  almost  carnal  love  for 
beautiful  words.  In  this  attempt  to  create  a  new  type  of  artistic 
prose  in  which  Tommaseo  is  a  real  forerunner  of  D'Annunzio, 
the  rhythm  can  be  analyzed  in  its  double  Ciceronian  and  Rous- 
seau-like elements.  The  epithets  can  be  reduced  to  habits  of 
Virgil.  Overdoing  everything,  Tommaseo's  philological  style  is 
an  extreme  example  for  all  the  stylistic  tendencies  of  the  Italian 


132  Style  Transcending  Language  741-747 

language  of  the  Ottocento  which  appeared  in  a  mitigated  and 
therefore  classical  form  in  Manzoni.  The  prose  of  Carducci 
was  analyzed  with  sovereignty  by  A.  BALDINI  — 741 —  "Car- 
ducci Prosatore,"  NA,  I  (July  1935),  61-80.  A  critic  compared 
Baldini's  aesthetic-analytical  acumen  to  that  of  De  Sanctis. 

Alfredo  GALLETTI  — 742 —  La  poesia  e  Varte  di  Giovanni 
Pascoli  (Bologna:  Zanichelli,  1918,  2nd  ed.  1924),  attempts  to 
explain  the  unique  symbolical  character  of  Pascoli's  poetry.  It 
is  rationally  dominated,  despite  the  romantic  temperament  of 
the  poet.  It  reveals  the  way  in  which  a  romantic  manifests  him- 
self in  the  era  of  positivism,  if  he  is  imbued  with  a  classic  and 
rationalistic  education.  Combining  the  problem  of  narration 
with  the  concept  of  the  novel,  history  and  the  historical  novel, 
W.  Th.  ELWERT  — 743 —  Geschichtsauffassung  und  Erzah- 
hcngstechnik  in  den  historischen  Romanen  F.  D.  Guerrazzis, 
BZRP  84  (Halle,  1935),  despite  the  philosophy  he  added  to  the 
analysis,  is  not  capable  of  adding  anything  important  to  the 
mainly  aesthetical  implications  of  his  problem. 

Ulrich  LEO  — 744 —  Fogazzaros  Stil  und  der  symbolistische 
Lebensroman  (Heidelberg:  Winter,  1928),  is  the  mature  work 
of  a  skilled  student  in  form  and  stylistic  analysis.  Leo  shows 
from  structure  and  style  that  the  infusion  of  the  Divine  into  the 
human  and  objective  world  is  a  nuclear  conception  of  the  poet. 
It  materializes  in  multiple  forms,  in  Fogazzaro's  "idealistic"  ex- 
pression natura,  as  well  as  in  its  ontological  substitute  le  cose,  in 
the  usage  of  a  certain  symbolic  present,  in  a  specific  Catholic 
type  of  vision,  etc.  Fecund  conclusions  crown  this  book  bearing 
on  types  of  the  novel  and  on  the  essence  of  the  symbol  in  the 
particular  case  of  Fogazzaro.  Giacomo  DEVOTO  — 745 —  "Dal 
Piccolo  mondo  moderno,"  L  (1942),  fasc.  21,  pp.  3-16,  proved  that 
Fogazzaro's  attempt  at  creating  new  stylistic  forms  is  hampered 
by  the  awkward  omnipresence  of  the  author.  Giacomo  Devoto 
— 746 —  "Dal  Piccolo  mondo  antico,"  Att,  I  (1942),  605-12,  con- 
versely proved  that  the  style  of  this  work  unwillingly  follows 
closely  traditional  patterns,  but  that  the  tendency  to  evade  them 
(in  contradistinction  to  Manzoni)  cannot  be  hidden.  Both  ar- 
ticles are  united  in  Devoto's  Stilistica  (no.  1494),  90-128. 

The  art  of  the  Italian  Verismo  has  been  investigated  in  a  con- 
crete case  by  Eurialo  DE  MICHELIS  — 747 —  Varte  del  Verga 
(Firenze:  La  nuova  Italia,  1941).  The  author  analyzing  the 
novels  intensively,  although  not  according  to  modern  methods, 


748-752  Italy  133 

is  a  first  class  observer  and  gives  his  observations  good  for- 
mulations : 

I  'primitivi/  gli  inesprimabili  sentimenti  servono  appunto  per 
quanto  accentuano  i  toni  con  estremo  rigore,  e  forzano  il  modo 
critico-narrativo  nel  modo  lirico  (p.  52). 

The  German  dissertation  by  G.  GRESIK  — 748 —  Giovanni 
Vergas  Kunst  und  Hire  Beziehungen  zur  Dichtung  des  franzo- 
sischen  Realismus  und  Naturalismus,  Diss.  Breslau,  1940,  is 
mixed  up  with  too  much  literary  history.  Gresik  explains  psy- 
chologically rather  than  structurally  the  motifs  from  the  world 
of  peasant  proletarians,  their  objective  presentation  and  the 
stylistic  use  of  the  Sicilian  dialect. 

Ivan  A.  PETKANOV  — 749 —  Profilo  di  Giovanni  Verga  nar- 
ratore  (Roma:  Institute  di  Filologia  Romanza,  1942),  is  the 
only  clearly  recognizable  style  dissertation  from  the  Bertoni- 
school  and,  like  the  master's  work,  is  based  on  selection,  con- 
densation and  characterization.  Thus  the  result  is  not  a  de- 
tailed exposition  of  techniques,  but  the  narrator's  type  of  reaction 
to  the  world  in  his  narration:  "Mira  il  vuoto  con  occhi  quasi 
assent i."  But  mark  the  quasi  which  takes  into  account  that  the 
whole  work  of  Verga  actually  has  not  been  considered  a  merely 
objective  narration. 

Licia  RONCARATI  —750—  Uarte  di  Grazia  Deledda  (Fi- 
renze :  D'Anna,  1949) ,  tries  to  circumscribe  the  style  of  G.  Deled- 
da as  a  verismo  fiabesco,  where  religion,  morals  and  a  strong 
lyricism  mitigate  the  dramatic  elements  in  situations  and  char- 
acters, including  the  Sardinian  bandits.  In  the  master  novel 
La  Madre  appears  most  clearly  "la  volonta  consapevole  di  dare 
artistica  concretezza  al  proprio  sentire,,  (p.  65)  with  the  aim  at 
concentration,  without  any  distraction  from  the  main  action  ex- 
cept landscape  description. 

There  are  style  studies  which  criticize  and  condemn  an  author, 
looking  for  mistakes  and  incongruities.  This  type,  which  can- 
not be  fertile  because  there  is  no  sympathy  between  the  investi- 
gating subject  and  the  investigated  object,  is  repesented  by  V. 
SCHILLIRO  — 751 —  Uarte  di  Gabriele  d'Annunzio  (Torino: 
Societa  editrice  italiana,  1938) .  A  genuine  admirer  of  the  art 
of  D'Annunzio  is  rather  E.  DENTONI  — 752 —  L'opera  artistica 
di  Gabriele  d'Annunzio  (Firenze:  Marzocco,  1942).  The  philo- 
logical critic,  between  these  two  extremes,  is  ENRICO  FALQUI 


134  Style  Transcending  Language  753-758 

— 753 —  "La  prosa  del  'Solus',"  Oggi  (June,  1939).  He  proves 
that  D'Annunzio's  rhetorical  play  with  misery  and  voluptuous- 
ness cannot  be  the  language  of  true  sorrow,  as  is  clear  in  the 
following  example  with  its  studied  chiasmus  and  rhythm:  "II 
suono  e  come  un  vapore  lento ;  il  vapore  e  come  un  lento  suono." 

A  dissertation  from  the  Zurich  school  of  stylistics,  Johanna 
ADORF  — 754 —  Francesco  Chiesas  dichterische  Welt,  SRCT, 
Vol.  I  (Bern:  Francke,  1948),  reduces  the  art  of  Fr.  Chiesa,  the 
author  from  the  Ticino  born  in  1871,  to  the  grasp  of  fundamental 
aspects  like  space,  time,  nature  and  man,  and  links  these  aspects 
to  forms.  Thus  space  is  actually  seen  rather  than  felt,  and  is 
expressed  by  the  recurrent  verbs  vedere,  guardare,  rimirare, 
scorgere,  aprir  gli  occhi,  contemplare.  Light  is  delicately  en- 
joyed, as  proved  by  the  verbs  versare,  s  fug  give,  irrompere,  pio- 
vere,  entrare  illuminando ;  colors  are  carefully  shaded,  as  az- 
zurro  cilestrino,  or  neve  d'oro;  melodies  are  appreciated  under 
the  condition  that  they  are  soft:  canti  lontani,  vocine  soffocate, 
vago  susurro.  The  four  seasons  reflecting  the  poet's  envisioning 
life  and  death  come  to  the  fore  in  verbs  like  rinascere,  riacquis- 
tare,  visor gere ;  the  fleeting  of  time  in  venire  propagandosi,  com- 
minciare  ad  emergere  as  well  as  in  fluttuare,  muoversi,  correre, 
ondeggiare.  In  the  descriptions  a  unique  popular  comparison 
brings  atmosphere  to  the  characters :  una  donna  sana  come  un 
corno;  un  cuore  cost;  largo  come  Vuniverso  intiero.  Enumera- 
tion and  parataxis,  climax  of  a  tale  ending  abruptly,  and  a  plot 
leaning  on  a  verb-scale  like  accadde,  si  rovescid,  si  sciolse,  si 
precipitd,  perdette,  cadde,  cessd,  reveal  the  observer  who  does  not 
evaluate.  Composition  and  sentence  structure  are  bipartite, 
adjectives  harmonious  (dolce,  sereno)  ;  only  emotions  break  this 
rhythm  with  occasional  endearing  suffixes. 

The  complex  art  of  Pirandello  was  outlined  by  P.  PUGLIESI 
and  E.  BOTTINO  — 755 —  Lineamenti  sulVarte  di  Luigi  Piran- 
dello (Catania:  Intelisano,  1942)  ;  the  most  artificial  orientalism 
of  Cecchi  by  Angela  POLIMENI  — 756 —  La  prosa  di  Emilio 
Cecchi  (Reggio  di  Calabria:  Barresi,  1948)  ;  the  narative  art  of 
the  erotical  A.  Moravia  found  a  penetrating  and  remarkable 
study  in  A.  BORLENGHI  —757—  "A.  Moravia  narratore," 
Costume,  III  (194.6),  112-120.  L.  Capuana  became  the  subject 
of  the  excellent  and  bibliographically  rich  book  of  A.  PELLIZ- 
ZARI  — 758 —  II  pensiero  e  Varte  di  L.  Capuana  (Perrella,  1921). 
The  humorous  evocator  of  myths,  in  the  most  unartificial  prose- 


759-760  Italy  135 

like  poetry,  G.  Gozzano,  aroused  the  stylistic  interest  of  E.  CIR- 
CEO  — 759 —  La  poesia  e  Varte  di  G.  Gozzano  (Lanciano:  Caro- 
sella,  1942).  Silvio  PELLEGRINI  —760—  "Rivohizione  e 
tradizione  nella  forma  di  Fabio  Tombari,"  CN,  III  (1943),  90- 
100,  illustrates  with  good  examples  the  modern  virtuosities  of 
musicality,  neo-secentismo  and  rhetorical  artistry  of  Tombari 
(born  1899)  as  occurring  in  works  like  /  sogni  di  tin  vagabondo  or 
Tutta  Frusaglia,  as  well  as  an  objectivity  a  la  Moravia  in  Le  fiabe 
per  amanti.  The  earlier  style  mitigated  by  the  latter  finds  a 
new  synthesis  in  11  libro  degli  animali  and  /  ghiottoni  (see  also 
Go  Devoto,  Stilistica  (no.  1494),  for  Gadda:  57-89,  for  Svevo: 
175-192). 


CHAPTER  VI 

One  Single  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author 

Sometimes  it  will  be  preferable  to  study  profoundly  one  aspect 
of  a  literary  work  instead  of  studying  superficially  its  entirety. 
Students  have  been  busy,  therefore,  investigating  in  single 
literary  works  or  authors  the  type  of  prose  or  poetry  which  they 
represent,  i.e.  the  reflection  of  musical  or  rhythmical  propensi- 
ties, numerus,  cursus,  symmetry,  structures  of  verse  types,  "vers 
rapportes" ;  periphrase,  allusion,  antithesis,  repetition,  enumera- 
tion, transition,  the  role  of  the  conjunctions  and  negations,  speech 
types  and  types  of  reporting,  hyperboles,  effects  of  word  forma- 
tion and  choice  of  vocabulary;  symbols,  similes,  imagery,  com- 
parisons, allegories  and  metaphors,  the  epithet,  the  synaesthetic 
interchanges  and  fusions ;  the  color  elements,  the  euphonic  ele- 
ments, the  dynamism  in  presentation,  the  animation,  the  forms 
of  description,  narrative  devices,  the  stylistic  use  of  tenses  and 
moods,  the  impressionism,  expressionism,  "realism,"  the  local 
color,  natural  scenery  and  landscape,  the  portrait,  introduction 
of  persons,  characterization,  unification,  the  forms  of  humor  and 
the  wordplay.  All  these  studies  try  to  group  one  single  stylistic 
aspect  with  regard  to  the  structure  of  a  work.  The  order  of 
presentation  in  this  chapter  will  be  a  chronological  arrangement 
as  to  literary  history  under  the  single  stylistic  devices,  without 
separating  the  different  Romance  literatures. 

A.    Rhythmical  and  Musical  Style  Problems 

Outstanding  rhythmical  studies  resulted  first  from  scholars 
in  the  Latin  and  Middle  Latin  field,  like  Eduard  Norden,  Karl 
Polheim,  Wilhelm  Meyer  von  Speyer,  Paul  von  Winterfeld,  and 
Francesco  Di  Capua.  It  was  a  challenge  to  extend  this  type  of 
studies  to  Romance  authors  in  their  rhythmical  dependence  on 
Middle  Latin  patterns  of  numerus,  cursus,  and  rhyme  since  the 
days  of  the  troubadours.  Italian  studies  are  here  in  the  lead, 
since  the  transition  from  the  Latin  conditions  to  the  Italian  situa- 
tion seems  very  smooth  and  evident ;  the  picture  offered  in  Spain 
is  more  complicated,  and  that  of  France  is  entirely  different.  Since 


761-766        Rhythmical  and  Musical  Problems  137 

in  this  chapter  only  single  authors  will  be  considered,  and  these 
again  limited  to  the  extant  rhythmical  studies  which  were  made 
about  such  authors,  only  a  sporadic  survey  can  be  given.  But 
the  chronological  arrangement,  leading  from  Italy  to  Spain  and 
from  there  to  France,  opens  the  problem  quite  spontaneously. 

Francesco  DI  CAPUA  —761 —  Appunti  sul  "Cursus"  o  ritmo 
prosaico  nelle  opere  latine  di  Dante  Alighieri  con  note  critiche 
sulV  epistole  dantesche  (Castellammare:  di  Stabia,  1919),  demon- 
strates that  Dante  delights  in  the  imitation  of  the  most  artistic 
cursus-combinations  in  his  own  Latin  works  in  order  to  express 
particular  moods.  Striking  numeri  are  consequently  rare  in  the 
Monarchia  as  -a  work  based  on  syllogisms.  But  they  appear 
panegyrically  combined  with  concinnitas  in  the  De  vulgari  elo- 
quentia  and  with  rich  abundance  in  the  Epistolae.  FRANCESCO 
DI  CAPUA  — 762 —  Sentenze  e  proverbi  nella  tecnica  oratoria  e 
loro  influenza  sull'arte  del  periodare  (Napoli:  Libreria  scienti- 
fica,  1947),  studies  the  adaptation  of  common  sayings  to  the 
exigencies  of  the  cursus  from  classical  Latin  through  Medieval 
Latin  to  Dante.  Here  the  bridges  to  the  vernacular  are  made 
evident.  Not  only  Italian  prose,  but  French  and  English  are 
considered;  Dante,  Inferno  5  (Francesca)  is  interpreted  as  con- 
sisting of  captatio,  amplificatio,  two  sententious  sayings  (syl- 
logisms) and  distinct  elements  from  Boethius  and  Vergil.  The 
Middle  Latin  pattern  could  not  be  more  drastic.  Already  G. 
LISIO  — 763 —  L'arte  del  periodo  nelle  opere  volgari  di  Dante 
Alighieri  e  del  secolo  XIII  (Bologna,  1902) ,  in  an  abstract  analy- 
sis without  linking  the  contents  to  the  rhythms,  had  explained  the 
possibilities  of  Dante's  vernacular  cadences  as  analogous  to  his 
Latin  clausulae.  Giulio  BERTONI  — 764 —  La  prosa  della  'Vita 
Nuova'  di  Dante  (Genova:  Formiggini,  1914),  considers  Dante's 
<cadenced  lyrical  prose  style  creative  to  the  point  that  it  influ- 
enced even  those  who  wrote  in  Latin. 

Starting  from  Dante's  Vita  Nuova  prose  as  patterned  on  Latin 
Saints'  lives,  and  from  the  Convivio  as  a  battle  field  for  the  ar- 
tistries  of  cursus  planus,  tardus  and  velox,  A.  SCHIAFFINI 
solves  the  problem  of  —765—-  "La  prosa-poesia  di  Giovanni 
Boccaccio,"  RLR,  X  (1934),  63-83.  In  a  broader  presentation, 
— 766 —  Tradizione  e  poesia  nella  prosa  d'arte  italiana  dalla 
Latinitd  medievale  a  G.  Boccaccio  (Genova:  Orfini,  1934;  2nd 
edition  1943),  he  makes  plausible  the  fact  that  even  the  conven- 


138  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  767-774 

tional  prose  of  the  Convivio,  free  from  the  heartbeats  of  the 
Vita  Nuova,  was  consciously  made  an  instrument  of  color,  music 
and  numerous  prose. 

Martha  AMREIN-WIDMER  —767—  Rhythmus  als  Aus- 
druck  inneren  Erlebens  in  Dantes  Divina  Commedia,  Diss. 
Zurich,  1932,  conversely  explains  Dante's  rhythmical  life,  i.e. 
the  individuality  of  each  type  of  the  endecasillabo  of  the  Divina 
Commedia  according  to  the  movement,  rest,  joy,  sorrow,  admira- 
tion, suspense,  etc.,  to  be  expressed.  This  goal  is  reached,  thanks 
to  the  fact  that  the  antique  metres  are  hovering  over  the  Ro- 
manic-Italian metrical  system.  E.  STAEDLER  — 768 —  "Das 
rhetorische  Element  in  Dantes  Divina  Commedia,"  DDJ,  XXII 
(1940) ,  107-151,  is  concerned  with  the  linguistic  genius  of  Dante, 
who  uses  liturgical,  Latin,  Greek,  and  Hebrew  patterns  for  the 
rhetorical  variation  of  his  endecasillabi.  E.  G.  PARODI  —769 — 
"Osservazioni  sul  'Cursus'  nelle  opere  latine  e  volgari  del  Boc- 
caccio," Studii  su  G.  Boccaccio,  Firenze,  1913,  232  ff .,  tries  to  fix 
some  cursus  types  in  the  periodare  of  Boccaccio's  prose  style. 
Giovanni  AQUILEGCHIA  —770—  "Nota  sulla  prosa  del  Tasso," 
CN,  IX  (1949),  154-163,  refutes  the  wholesale  statements  about 
Tasso's  imitation  of  Plato's  Greek  dialogues,  because  Tasso's 
rhythm  and  additional  locutions  prove  that  he  circumscribes  only 
passages  from  Marsilio  Ficino's  Latin  translations  of  Plato  and 
Plotinus.  L.  COLLI  — 771 —  La  musicalita  e  il  colore  nella 
Gerusalemme  (Napoli:  Di  Lauro,  1936),  stresses  the  melodious 
achievements  of  Tasso's  verse. 

In  the  Spanish  field,  may  be  recorded  first  of  all  a  work  on 
the  sacred  eloquence  of  the  Spanish  asceticist  Luis  de  Granada, 
presented  in  the  manner  of  school  rhetorics :  Rebecca  SWITZER 
— 772 —  The  Ciceronian  Style  of  Luis  de  Granada  (New  York: 
Instituto  de  las  Espanas,  1927).  Francisco  L6PEZ  ESTRADA 
— 773 —  "La  retorica  en  las  'Generaciones  y  semblanzas*  de 
Fernan  Perez  de  Guzman,"  RFE,  XXX  (1946),  310-352,  proves 
that  medieval  rhetorical  formulas  are  the  basis  of  even  the  very 
individual  handling  of  devices  including  descriptions  of  persons. 

In  the  realm  of  poetry  DAmaso  ALONSO  — 774 —  "Temas 
gongorinos,"  RFE,  XI  (1927),  329-44,  deals  with  a  metric-styl- 
istic question:  "La  simetria  en  el  endecasilabo  de  Gongora." 
Here  it  is  shown  how  Gongora  continues  and  makes  perfect  in 
its  details  a  metric  fragmentation  of  the  verse  already  delineated 
in   Garcilaso.      One   can   thus   easily   distinguish   in    G6ngora 


775-780        Rhythmical  and  Musical  Problems  139 

endecasilabos  claramente  bimembres,  with  an  eje  de  simetria,  on 
both  sides  of  which  se  repiten  o  contraponen  unos  varios  ele- 
mentos  logicos,  foneticos,  gramaticales  o  coloristas.  The  study  of 
the  meaning  of  the  long"  sentence  in  Gongora  has  attracted 
Gabriel  PRADAL-RODRfGUEZ  —775—  "Implicaciones  for- 
mates de  la  frase  larga  en  la  poesia  gongorina,"  RHM,  XIII 
(1947) ,  23-29.  The  fact  that  the  long  sentence  in  the  Soledades  is 
based  on  an  initial  en,  an  adverb,  a  present  participle,  or  an 
ablative  absolute  is  not  a  whim  but  "un  procedimiento  expresivo 
.  .  .  necesidad  formal  .  .  .  debida  a  la  riqueza  del  contenido  ...  La 
frase  tiende  a  identificarse  con  el  poema."  Damaso  Alonso's 
studies  on  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz  have  been  supplemented  along 
lines  of  melodiousness  and  rhythm  by  the  poet  Gerardo  DIEGO 
— 776 —  "Musica  y  ritmo  en  la  poesia  de  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz," 
Esc,  IX  (1943),  163-186.  A.  DEL  CAMPO  —111—  "Plurimem- 
bracion  y  correlacion  en  Francisco  de  la  Torre,"  RFE,  XXX 
(1946),  385-92,  closely  follows  the  problem  and  method  of 
Damaso  Alonso  (no.  774).  There  may  be  appended  too  a  rhyth- 
mical study  in  contemporary  poetry:  Joaquin  CASALDUERO 
— 778 —  "El  movimiento  ritmico  en  el  segundo  Cantico  de  Jorge 
Guillen,"  A,  II  (1946),  14-23. 

The  smoothly  flowing,  monotonous,  iambic-oxytonal  Old 
French  was  not  able  to  imitate  the  Latin  prose  numerus,  al- 
though Modern  French  developed  the  most  beautiful  prose  nom- 
breuse  of  its  own.  The  Old  French  situation  in  contradistinction 
to  the  Middle  English  can  well  be  studied  in  Margaret 
SCHLAUCH  -—779—  "Chaucer's  Prose  Rhythms/'  PMLA,  LXV 
(1950),  568-589. 

With  the  Renaissance,  as  one  knows  from  the  efforts  of 
Rabelais  and  particularly  Calvin,  a  new  type  of  prose  rhythm 
and  an  interpenetration  of  prose  and  poetry  come  into  being.  The 
problem  has  not  been  given  too  much  attention  until  now.  But 
Phyllis  GRACEY —780—  Montaigne  et  la  poesie  (Paris: 
Presses  universitaires,  1935),  147-162,  has  shown  to  what  extent 
Montaigne's  apparently  rational  prose  is  poetical  in  kind  be- 
cause of  his  "abondance  des  expressions  imagees  et  mots  charnus" 
(p.  148)  : 

S'il  tire  de  ses  lectures  un  grand  nombre  de  fleurs  pour  les 
Essais,  au  moins  il  les  transplante  dans  son  propre  sol,  en  ote  les 
feuilles  mortes,  et  laisse  pousser  les  tiges  neuves   (p.  158). 

The  rhythmical  studies  in  a  strictly  technical  sense  are,  as  far 


140  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  781-786 

as  the  seventeenth  century  is  concerned,  limited  to  the  orators. 
An  example  of  this  type  is  M.  F.  HITZ  — 781 —  Die  Redekunst 
in  Bourdaloues  Predigt,  Diss.  Munchen,  1937.  Among  the  many 
rhythmical  studies  of  Theophil  SPOERRI,  the  highest  stylistic 
problems  are  involved  in  — 782 —  "Le  rhythme  tragique,"  T, 
III  (1945),  161-184  (no.  525).  Here  Spoerri  analyzes  the  art 
of  Racine  as  "expression"  based  on  rhythm.  This  may  be  seen 
from  the  following  example,  where  Berenice  says  to  Titus :  "Pour 
la  derniere  fois,  /  adieu,  /  seigneur."  Antiochus  finishes  the 
Alexandrine  with  the  single  "Helas."    Spoerri's  comment  is  this : 

La  brisure  du  vers  indique  a  la  fois  la  brisure  du  temps  et  de 
Tamour.  ...  11  n'y  a  rien  de  plus  saisissant  dans  tout  le  theatre 
tragique.  .  .  .  Ce  douloureux  visage  de  femme  se  tournant  pour  la 
derniere  fois  vers  l'homme  qu'elle  va  quitter,  montre  tout  le 
desespoir  du  drame  humain. 

K  .  KNAUER  — 783 —  Ein  Kunstler  poelischer  Prosa  in  der 
franzosischen  Vorromantih,  Jean  Frangois  Marmontel  (Halle: 
Niemeyer,  1936),  classifies  the  rhythmic  types  of  Marmontel, 
overdoing  the  French  syllable-counting  with  an  urge  for  order 
known  since  the  so-called  five  types  of  Eduard  Sievers.  Knauer 
tries  to  establish  a  kind  of  rhythmic  principle  for  the  poeme  en 
prose. 

For  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century  there  is  an  Italian 
study  by  A.  D'ANDREA  — 784 —  "Poesia  e  oratoria  nei  Promes- 
si  Sposi,"  Leo  (1936),  287-293,  who  underlines  the  poetic  ele- 
ments versus  the  oratorical  ones  which  were  generally  over- 
stressed  in  this  novel.  For  French  there  is  a  new  scientific 
method,  by  which  Pius  Servien  COCULESCU  —785 —  Lyrisme 
et  structures  sonores.  Nouvelles  methodes  d' analyse  des  rythmes, 
appliquees  a  Atala  de  Chateaubriand  (Paris:  Boivin,  1930), 
has  laid  bare  the  variety  of  Chateaubriand's  beautiful  prose 
"metres."  In  a  work,  small  but  penetrating  and  useful  in  its 
technical  thoroughness,  EUGfeNE-LouiS  MARTIN  studies  — 786 — 
Les  symetries  de  la  prose  dans  les  principaux  romans  de  Victor 
Hugo  (Paris:  Presses  Universitaires,  1925).  His  conclusion 
is  that  the  feeling  of  symmetry  in  Hugo  evolves  from  the  sym- 
metry of  the  agrement  to  that  of  the  expression,  so  that  a 
straight  line  of  evolution  runs  from  Bug  Jargal  to  the  Travail- 
leurs  de  la  mer,  going  through  Notre-Dame  and  Les  Miserables. 
Quatre-vingt-treize,  a  novel  of  Hugo's  old  age,  is  a  retrocession 
to  former  habits.    From  1819  to  1862  the  sentences  and  short 


787-789        Rhythmical  and  Musical  Problems  141 

symmetric  clauses  are  gradually  becoming  more  numerous,  while 
the  sentences  with  long  clauses  (Empire  style)  are  systematically 
diminishing.  Regularity  gives  way  to  irregularity,  subordina- 
tion to  coordination.  On  the  other  hand,  there  is  an  increase  in 
the  number  and  type  of  syllables  that  possess  expressive  value 
inside  the  symmetry  (rhyme,  assonance,  alliteration  within  the 
prose).  There  are  parallel  lines  of  expressive  procedures  of 
reiteration,  gradation  and  repetition.  The  author  thinks  he  has 
shown  exactly  how  Hugo  transformed  the  essence  of  French 
prose  by  introducing  into  it  a  considerable  number  of  typically 
poetic  expressions,  and  he  hopes  that  the  imitation  and  applica- 
tion of  his  method  to  the  work  of  other  authors  may  give  atu 
objective  basis  to  literary  criticism.  We  may  add  that  Pius 
Servien  Coculescu  (no.  785)  and  Maurice  Grammont  (see  no. 
981)  have  actually  done  this. 

A.  LE  Du  — 787 —  Le  rythme  dans  la  prose  de  Victor  Hugo 
de  1818  a  1831  (Paris:  Hachette,  1929),  develops  the  thesis  that 
Victor  Hugo's  propensity  for  antithesis,  which  would  normally 
find  its  mould  in  a  bipartite  rhythm,  is  superseded  in  the  long  run 
by  a  more  grandiose  underscoring  of  gradations,  a  gigantic  em- 
bracing of  past,  present  and  future,  and  other  grammatical 
categories  based  on  three,  so  that  the  tripartite  rhythm  finally 
becomes  the  hallmark  of  Hugo's  prose.  It  reaches  its  peak  in  a 
strong  rhetorical  form  with  Le  dernier  jour  d'un  condamne,  and 
in  a  more  spontaneous  form  in  Notre-Dame  de  Paris,  All  the 
phonetic  and  syntactic  possibilities,  including  rhyme  and  as- 
sonances, are  enumerated,  discussed  and  evaluated.  B.  J.  H.  M. 
TIMMERMANS  —788—  "Observations  sur  la  technique  de 
Baudelaire,"  Neo,  XXIX  (1944),  I:  "L'harmonie,"  pp.  97-100; 
II:  "La  rythmique,"  145-150,  develops  the  metrical-prosodic  re- 
marks of  Vivier  (no.  554)  to  a  real  stylistics  of  "aftinites  lyrico- 
mathematiques,"  based  on  the  findings  of  Maurice  Grammont. 
Henri  MORIER  — 789 —  Le  rythme  du  vers  libre  symboliste 
etudie  chez  Verhaeren,  Henri  de  Regnier,  Viele-Griffin  et  ses 
relations  avec  le  sens,  I:  Chez  Verhaeren  (Paris:  Les  Presses 
academiques,  1943),  is  a  rhythmical  style  study  going  beyond 
Grammont.  Whenever  an  emotion  is  at  issue,  Verhaeren  im- 
pinges on  the  rights  of  the  French  Alexandrines  as  well  as  on 
the  fundamental  structure  of  decasyllables  and  octosyllables, 
with  his  "rythmes  pourpres"  et  "noirs" : 

Les  alliterations  qui  foisonnent;  les  accents  d'  intensite,  sans 


142  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  790-796 

cesse  deplaces  et  renforces  par  remotion  .  .  .,  la  syncope,  forgent 
un  rythme  d'acier,  allument  tour  a  tour  les  voyelles  qui,  un  instant, 
jaillissent  de  l'ombre,  projettent  leur  flamme  autour  d'  elles,  et 
s'eteignent,  dechirant  le  vers  d'eclairs  alternatifs   (p.  244). 

The  other  volumes  stress  similar  problems  (see  no.  1490). 

The  modern  prosa  d'arte  of  D'Annunzio,  before  and  after  the 
influence  of  the  contemporary  school  of  artistic  narrative  prose, 
has  been  explained  by  Enrico  FALQUI  — 790 —  Ragguaglio 
sulla  prosa  d'arte  con  un  appendice  dannunziana  (Firenze:  Le 
Monnier,  1944)  as  a  dangerous  yielding  of  traditional  sculptured 
prose  to  "qcriture  artiste"   (p.  41). 

B.     Allusion  and  Periphrasis 

An  illuminating  study  of  allusion  and  periphrase  in  Dante 
can  be  found  in  Ernst  Robert  CURTIUS  —791—  "Neue  Dante- 
studien,"  RF,  LX  (1947),  237-289,  where  circumlocutions  for 
different  topics  are  traced  back  to  their  Greco-Roman  patterns. 
DAmaso  ALONSO  — 792 —  "Alusi6n  y  elision  en  la  poesia  de 
Gongora,"  RO  (1928),  177-202;  reprinted  in  EPE,  217-240, 
establishes  a  system  of  mythological  allusions  referring  to  pro- 
verbial phrases  as  well  as  to  specific  fables  of  antiquity.  In 
relation  to  certain  associations  of  thought,  these  allusions  are 
repeated  in  stereotype  fashion  as  concrete  and  invariable  ele- 
ments of  the  language  of  Gongora.  Complementary  informa- 
tion is  found  in  Raymond  L.  GRISMER  — 793 —  "Classical 
Allusions  in  the  Poetic  Works  of  Gongora,"  H,  XXX  (1948), 
486-504.  Including  more  than  one  author,  MARfA  Rosa  LIDA 
— 794 —  "El  amanecer  mitol6gico  en  la  poesia  narrativa  espa- 
fiola,"  RFH,  VIII  (1946),  77-110,  surveys  in  serious  academic 
fashion  the  "Homeric"  allusions  to  sunrise  and  dawn  during  the 
siglo  de  oro.  Allusion  permits  of  ellipsis,  the  stylistic  value  of 
which  was  shown  in  Claudel  by  Paul  IMBS  — 795 —  "Etude  sur 
la  syntaxe  du  Soulier  de  Satin,"  FM,  XII  (1944),  243-279. 

C.    Repetition.     Enumeration.     Transition.     Form  of  Conjunc- 
tion.    Negation.     Syntactic  Stressing.     Forms  of  Report 
and  Speech.     Exaggeration.     Antithesis. 
Word  Formation.    Vocabulary. 

A  particular  form  of  repetition  was  studied  by  Leo  SPITZER, 
—796—  "Une  habitude  de  style — le  rappel — chez  Celine,"  FM, 


797-802  Repetition,  Transition,  etc.  143 

III  (1935),  193-208.  Repetition  in  the  form  of  anaphora  found 
the  interest  of  Ernesto  VERES  D'OC6N  —797—  "La  anafora 
en  la  lirica  de  Quevedo,"  BSCC,  IV  (1949) .  He  tries  to  prove  that 
the  baroque  anaphora  of  Quevedo  implies  necessity  for  order  in 
a  chaotic  world.  Ernesto  VERES  D'OCoN  —798—  "El  estilo 
enumerativo  en  la  poesia  de  Unamuno,"  CuaL  (Enero-Junio 
1949),  115-143,  is  a  stylistically  poor  and  philosophically  pre- 
tentious application  of  Spitzer's  study  (no.  993)  to  Unamuno's 
problem  of  immortality,  supposed  to  be  expressed  stylistically. 
The  concept  of  enumeration  is  so  widely  taken  that  many  sub- 
divisions, without  being  convincing,  are  possible,  one  of  which 
is  "el  asindeton  despectivo." 

Josef  NEUMuLLER  —799 —  Fontenelles  Stil  im  Lichte  der 
Satzverknupfung ,  Diss.  Munchen,  1933,  tries  to  identify  the  phi- 
losopher in  Fontenelle  with  the  habit  of  logical  subordination, 
the  Bel  Esprit  with  the  abruptly  used  coupes.  The  question 
arises:  to  what  extent  can  a  beginner  be  taught  responsible 
stylistic  analysis  of  the  language  of  an  author  by  such  gratuitous 
conclusions.  Leo  SPITZER  —800—  "Die  Kunst  des  ttbergangs 
bei  La  Fontaine,"  PMLA,  LIII  (1938),  393-433,  analyzes  the 
stylistic  meaning  of  the  choice  of  transitions.  He  underlines  the 
fact  that  the  "unique  forms  of  expressions"  are  not  merely  re- 
duced to  syntax  and  vocabulary,  but  likewise  include  traits  of 
technique  and  composition.  The  same  insight  into  the  stylistic 
importance  of  conjunctions  comes  from  Marcel  CRESSOT 
— 801 —  "La  liaison  des  phrases  dans  Salammb6,,,  FM,  IX 
(1941),  81-93. 

Jose  Maria  VALVERDE  —802—  "De  la  disyuncion  a  la 
negacion  en  la  poesia  de  Vicente  Aleixandre,"  Esc,  XVII  (1945), 
447-457,  is  the  first  Spanish  study  in  which  the  Spitzerian  styl- 
istic method  has  been  applied  under  the  telling  subtitle:  "De  la 
sintaxis  a  la  vision  del  mundo."  Actually  Aleixandre's  modern 
Gongorism,  in  which  the  disjunctive  conjunction  o  has  the  mean- 
ing of  o  sea  or  como  and  hints  at  the  possibility  that  the  ideal 
things  fuse  with  the  real  ones,  can  only  mean,  as  Valverde  con- 
cludes, that  Aleixandre  is  a  kind  of  unconscious  pantheist.  The 
negation  of  the  ontological  reality  to  the  advantage  of  a  wishful 
imagination  ("plus  quam  metaphora")  is  supposed  to  prove  that 
Aleixandre  is  a  Kantian  idealist.  Bluffing  lines  like  "Tu,  poeta, 
'cuya  mano  y  no  luna'  yo  vi  en  los  cielos  una  noche  brillando" 


144  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  803-810 

are  quoted  to  prove  the  pseudophilosophical  statements  (see  no. 
1488). 

Back  with  this  method  to  its  originator  Spitzer  and  we  are 
again  in  the  world  of  common  sense:  Leo  SPITZER  himself, 

803 —  "Dos  observaciones  sintactico — estilisticas  a  las  coplas 

de  Manrique,"  RNFH,  IV  (1950),  1-24,  stresses  the  pathetic 
implications  coming  from  the  use  of  a  doubly  expressed  posses- 
sive relation,  and  the  awesome  impact  which  can  be  hidden  in  the 
substantivized  infinitive  like  el  morir  versus  la  muerte. 

Studies  like  Raimundo  LIDA  — 804 —  "La  tecnica  del  relato 
en  'La  gloria  de  Don  Ramiro',"  RCL,  IX  (1936),  225-247,  or  G. 
GOUGENHEIM  — 805 —  "La  presentation  du  discours  direct 
dans  'La  princesse  de  Cleves'  et  dans  'Dominique',"  FM,  VI 
(1938),  305-320,  penetrate  the  forms  of  thought  directly  re- 
ported. The  stylistic  implications  come  from  the  choice  of  verbs, 
tenses,  framing  and  general  arrangement  of  such  stylized 
thought.  The  pioneer  study  in  the  field  of  the  discourse  will  ever 
remain  Alfons  HILKA  — 806 —  Die  direkte  Rede  als  stilistisches 
Kunstmittel  in  den  Romanen  des  KristioM  von  Troyes  (Halle: 
Niemeyer,  1903).  How  refined  such  analyses  have  since  become 
may  be  seen  from  Jean  FRAPPIER  —807 —  "Le  discours  dans 
la  chronique  de  Villehardouin,"  EMR  (Paris:  Droz,  1946).  Frap- 
pier  underlines  the  skill  of  Villehardouin  for  indirect  reporting 
as  he  characterizes  and  groups  persons  by  this  procedure,  fuses 
their  speech  with  his  own  narration,  gives  pros  and  cons  of  part- 
ners and  makes  himself  a  critical  synthesis,  the  subjective  parti 
pris  of  which  certainly  was  not  intended.  This  study  exists  in  still 
another  form,  where  Jean  FRAPPIER  —808—  "Le  style  de 
Villehardouin  dans  les  discours  de  sa  chronique,"  BJRL,  XXX 
(Oct.  1946),  makes  clear  that  Villehardouin  is  the  first  to  re- 
place rhetorical  style  in  quoted  speech  by  realistically  observed 
conversational  style. 

Jared  WENGER  —809—  "Violence  as  a  Technique  in  the 
Dramas  and  Dramatizations  of  Dumas  Pere,"  RR,  XXXI  (1940) 
265-80,  studies  and  classifies  the  brutal  and  exaggerating  means 
of  expression  which  are  more  convincing  than  their  reduction  to 
Schiller's  early  technique,  called  "kraftgenialisch."  Another 
aspect  of  exaggeration  is  the  hyperbole  which  was  envisaged  in 
a  modern  way,  again  with  the  inclusion  of  several  authors,  by 
MARfA  Rosa  LIDA  —810—  "La  hiperbole  sagrada  en  la  poesia 
castellana  del  siglo  XV,"  RFH,  VIII  (1946),  121-130.    A  third 


811-816  Repetition,  Transition,  etc.  145 

form  of  exaggeration  consists  in  the  humorous  use  of  rare  tenses 
and  moods  as  studied  by  E.  VEO  — 811 —  "I  modi  latineschi  dei 
sonetti  del  Belli/'  RILD,  VI  (1934),  202-204. 

Federico  OLIVERO  — 812 —  II  Cwtrasto  nella  Lirica  di 
Emile  Verhaeren  (Torino,  1943),  is  a  sketchy  attempt  at  basing 
stylistic  contrasts  of  Verhaeren — of  the  type  "the  black  lilies" — 
upon  the  author  whose  split  personality  hovers  between  worldli- 
ness  and  religion  (see  no.  828) .  Jaime  DE  MAGALHAES  LIMA 
— 813 —  "0  estilo  de  Ega  de  Queiros  e  os  seus  contrastes  e  para- 
lelos,"  Lu,  III  (1925),  177-188,  presents  this  problem  in  a  super- 
ficial way  with  recourse  to  the  mutual  elucidation  of  the  arts 
("gothic-architectural").  What  such  studies  of  particular  style 
features  really  should  be  is  best  brought  home  by  the  first 
modern  style  study,  namely  Leo  SPITZER  — 814—  Die  Wort- 
bildung  als  stilistisches  Mitt  el  bei  Rabelais  (Halle:  Niemeyer, 
1910) .  He  stresses  rhyme  and  echo  effects  as  means  of  the  expres- 
sion of  joy: 

mocqueries,  folasteries  et  menteries  joyeuses ;  buverent  f ranche- 
ment,  librement,  hardiment;  fiantoient  aux  fiantoirs,  crachoient 
aux  crachoirs,  toussoient  aux  toussoirs,  resvoient  aux  resvoirs; 

playfulness  is  normally  developed  by  pleasant  wordplays:  "la 
vis  des  pastes  en  paste,  chose  assez  rare,  et  les  pastes  en  paste 
estoient  pastes  en  pot."  Ironical-sarcastic  suffixes  are  taken 
from  the  Greek  as  a  parody  of  diipetes:  Uranopetes,  Romipetes, 
Jacobipetes,  Concilipetes.  Such  tendencies  are  considered  ar- 
tistic expressions  of  the  complex  nature  of  the  humanist  as  a 
pan-urge.  Without  creating  neologisms  proper  by  word-forma- 
tion on  a  derivative  basis,  affirms  Spitzer,  Rabelais  dares  every- 
thing as  to  the  ephemeral  but  linguistically  correct  formations  in 
the  service  of  his  personal  art.  Only  forty  years  later  a  small 
study  of  a  similar  type  was  undertaken  by  S.  ULLMANN 
_815—  "The  Stylistic  Role  of  Anglicism  in  Vigny,"  FS,  IV 
(1950),  1-16.  Ullmann  here  continues  his  own  earlier  lexico- 
graphical study  of  the  anglicisms  in  Vigny  FM,  XVII  (1949), 
95-101,  and  this  time  envisages  their  literary  function.  AciR 
Tenorio  D'ALBUQUERQUE  —816—  "A  opulencia  vocabular  de 
Claudio  de  Souza,"  (Rio  de  Janeiro:  Journal  do  Commercio, 
1943),  separata,  1-32,  collects  with  ample  quotations  the  re- 
sounding and  magnificent  words  used  or  created  by  this  writer : 
apapagaiado  ("nossas  vozes  apapagaiadas  e  altissonantes"), 
choramiguento   (".  .  .  diante  de  urn  muro  de  lamentacoes"), 


146  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  817-822 

hipervibragdo  ("a  hipervibracao  cosmica  de  um  mundo  de 
titas").  The  most  profound  and  ingenious  stylistic  vocabulary- 
study  is  J.-G.  CAHEN  — 817 —  "Le  vocabulaire  de  Racine," 
RLR,  XVI  (1941-45),  1-249,  envisaged  from  the  angle  of  its 
psychological,  dramatic  and  generally  aesthetic  function  (see 
no.  311). 

D.     Symbol.     Allegory.     Imagery  and 
Metaphor.    Epithet. 

a)  Symbol 

Natale  BUSETTO  — 818 —  II  simbolo  nella  rappresentazione 
dei  beati  danteschi  (Napoli:  Ecco  della  Cultura,  1916),  tries  to 
establish  the  aesthetic  principle  according  to  which  the  flaming 
souls  in  the  Paradiso  do  not  only  "mean"  grace,  charity,  perfec- 
tion in  a  mounting  degree,  but  actually  get  a  progressively  more 
refined  light-matter  for  a  reembodiment  (in  consistency  with  the 
souls  in  the  Infer?io  and  the  Purgatorio)  from  the  heavenly 
bodies  in  which  they  appear  to  Dante.  Ludwig  PFANDL 
— 819 —  Die  zehnte  Muse  von  Mexico  Juana  Ines  de  la  Cruz 
(Munchen:  Rinn,  1946),  found  that  only  vital  sexual  symbols 
produce  poetry  in  Sor  Juana,  while  other  symbols  lead  her  into 
mannerism  (pp.  225-227).  Let  us  remark  that  "literary"  psy- 
choanalysts generally  did  not  make  decisive  contributions  to  the 
aesthetics  of  the  symbol,  if  we  think  of  Reik's  studies  on  Flau- 
bert and  Vodoz'  on  Charles  Nodier. 

William  Raleigh  PRICE  —820—  The  Sijmbolism  of  Vol- 
taire's Novels  (New  York:  Columbia  Univ.  Press,  1911),  is 
concerned  with  psychological  genesis  and  meaning  of  characters 
and  their  names,  particularly  in  Zadig,  but  mentions  only  "the 
vivacity  of  his  language,  the  rapidity  of  his  action,  the  lightness 
of  his  touch,  the  precision  of  his  comparisons"  (p.  20).  Anne- 
Marie  DE  COMMAILLE  —821—  "Diderot  et  le  symbole  lit- 
teraire,"  in  Diderot  Studies,  ed.  Otis  E.  Fellows  and  Norman  L. 
Torrey  (Syracuse:  Univ.  Press,  1949),  pp.  94-120,  tries  to 
prove  that  Diderot  is  the  first  though  not  conscious  symbolist  in 
the  sense  of  Baudelaire  and  Bergson  because 

la  pensee  qu'il  veut  transmettre  prend  source  dans  sa  sensi- 
bilite,  .  .  .  une  emotion  forte  en  accompagne  la  formation,  fait 
bouillonner  son  imagination,  l'entraine,  le  transporte   (p.  114). 

The  same  symbolic  interest  prevails  in  M.  VUILLE  — 822— 
L 'expression  de  Vennui  dans  les  images  de  Leconte  de  Lisle, 


823-829  Symbol.   Allegory,  etc.  147 

These:   Zurich,   1939.     Margarete  BOCK  went  in  search  of 

823 —  Symbolisches  in  den  Dramen  von  Alfred  de  Musset, 

Diss.  Berlin,  1936. 

Ivo  DANE  goes  into  — 824 —  "Symbol  und  Mythos  in  Flau- 
berts  Salammbo,"  ZFSL,  LIX  (1935),  22-45.  According  to  him 
the  essence  of  Flaubert's  novel  consists  in  the  symbol  of  the 
oriental  woman  (Salammbo)  who  hides  a  disillusioning  empti- 
ness behind  her  veil.  The  symbol  of  oriental  man,  Matho,  hides 
warrior  pride  subdued  to  women.  Oriental  landscape  is  cruelly 
symbolized  by  the  eternal  love-death  engagement  between  the 
sunburnt  desert  and  the  moon-worshipping  city  of  Carthage, 
but  everything  is  bound  to  be  sacrificed  to  Moloch,  'Tame  de 
cette  histoire."  D.  L.  DEMOREST'S  excellent  and  unusually 
rich  and  fresh  study  — 825 —  L' expression  figuree  et  symbolique 
dans  Voeuvre  de  G.  Flaubert  (Paris:  Presses  modernes,  193T) 
pierces  the  meaningful  events  like  the  slow  decay  of  the  cure  de 
pldtre  or  the  stumbling  of  Mme  Bovary  in  her  riding  gown  as 
dismal  auspices  and  does  away  with  the  myth  of  Flaubert's  im- 
passive realism.  Ivo  DANE  has  treated  Flaubert's  symbolism 
as  a  whole  in  an  earlier  study  — 826 —  Die  symbolisehe  Gestaltung 
in  der  Dichtung  Flauberts,  Diss.  Koln,  1933.  This  method  of 
dealing  with  symbols  was  followed  by  Adolf  VOGL  — 827 — 
"Guy  de  Maupassants  Lebensgefuhl  und  die  kunstlerische  Ge- 
staltung aussermenschlicher  Lebewesen,"  ZFSL,  LXII  (1938- 
39),  83-108.  He  explains  how  the  author  shows  the  sorrow  of  a 
woman  just  by  a  tear  which  rolls  over  her  cheek  when  she  looks 
at  a  group  of  black  ravens ;  or  the  ecstasy  of  a  loving  couple,  by 
the  trilling  song  of  a  nightingale.  Louis  Charles  BAUDOUIN 
— 828 —  he  symbole  chez  Verhaeren  (Geneva:  Mongenet,  1924), 
shows  in  strict  psychoanalytical  fashion  how  certain  complexes 
are  revealed  by  preferred  symbols  (jardin,  usine,  campagne, 
ville).  In  their  poetic  mould,  they  have  not  only  the  greatest 
condensation  but  also  the  greatest  aesthetic  originality. 

Emeric  FISER  — 829 —  he  symbole  litteraire  et  Marcel 
Proust  (Paris:  Corti,  1941),  following  a  suggestion  of  Valery 
Larbaud,  tries  to  prove  that  Proust  is  the  ideal  incarnation  of 
symbolism  in  the  sense  of  "une  transformation  d'une  verite  in- 
tuitive en  une  verite  spatiale"  (p.  23).  The  symbolic  achieve- 
ments of  Proust  consist  in  the  stylistic  blend  of  the  play  of 
analogies,  emotion  and  "souvenir"  of  the  past.  They  have  their 
strongest  support  in  the  theories  of  Bergson  and  in  the  tenta- 


148  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  830-833 

tive  character  of  the  "musical"  symbolism  of  Wagner,  Baude- 
laire and  Mallarme.  In  keeping  with  Jacques  Gengoux,  La 
symbolique  de  Rimbaud,  le  systeme,  ses  sources  (no.  573),  the 
symbolism  of  Rimbaud's  greater  pupil  Paul  CLAUDEL  —830— 
was  analyzed  by  Klara  Maurer,  Die  biblische  Symbolik  im  Werke 
Paul  Claudels,  Diss.  Zurich,  1941. 

Emmy  NEDDERMANN  — 831 —  Die  symbolistischen  Stilele- 
mente  im  Werke  von  Juan  Ramon  Jimenez,  HSVKR,  vol.  XX 
(1935),  only  checks  whether  Don  Juan  Ram6n  shares  certain 
style  elements  with  the  French  school  of  poets  called  les  symbo- 
listes.  The  elements  revealed  in  Don  Juan  Ram6n,s  artistry  are 
more  decadent  and  "modernistas"  than  symbolic.  Some  of  the 
examples  listed  concern  color  symbolism :  tengo  los  azules  en  el 
cuerpo ;  que  tranquilidad  violeta.  When  Miss  Neddermann  finds 
an  expression  like  Bajo  la  luna  roja  lloran  todas  las  esquilas, 
she  calls  this  preposition  bajo  "space  creating,"  and  alleges  the 
same  quality  for  sobre,  delante  de,  por,  hacia.  Raimundo  LIDA 
— 832 —  "Sobre  el  estilo  de  Juan  Ram6n  Jimenez,"  No,  II  (Enero, 
1937) ,  15-29,  adds  a  series  of  more  refined  results  to  those  less 
connected  examples  of  Miss  Neddermann  (no.  831).  Let  us 
mention  the  typically  Spanish  "introvert"  o  ("un  siglo  o  un 
instante,"  "todo  el  mundo  esta  muerto,  o  todo  vivo"),  sign  of  a 
metaphysical  impressionism  which  is  proud  of  not  seeing  the 
external  objects,  because  they  are  indifferent.  The  proof  for 
this  interpretation  is  given  in  such  discursive  formulas  of  Don 
Ramon  as :  "Da  lo  mismo,'  *es  lo  mismo'."  Lida,  although  prais- 
ing the  study  of  Miss  Neddermann,  shows  her  how  she  should 
have  proceeded.  A  short  study  of  the  symbol  in  a  modern  Ital- 
ian author  is  F.  T.  ROFFARE  —833—  "Stile  e  simbolo  nel 
Pascoli,"  TN,  IV  (Feb.  1935),  34  ff. 

b)   Allegory 

If  we  speak  of  allegory  or  the  didactically  constructed  pseudo- 
symbol,  by  which  things  and  relations  are  not  discovered  but 
visualized  arbitrarily  we  think  of  works  of  the  Middle  Ages 
and  of  the  Baroque.  The  problem  whether  these  psychological 
externalizations  were  felt  like  real  things  or  personalities  is  a 
problem  full  of  attraction  since  Johan  Huizinga's  suggestions  in 
The  Waning  of  the  Middle  Ages  (London,  1924).  As  far  as  the 
poet  Eustache  Deschamps  is  concerned,  the  problem  has  been 
brought  to  the  fore  in  its  late  mediaeval  implications  by  FRANZ 


834-841  Symbol.    Allegory,  etc.  149 

FRESE  — 834 —  Allegorische  und  mythologische  Gestalten  in 
den  Dichtungen  Eustache  Deschamps,  Diss.  Munster,  1934. 
The  allegorical  concept,  in  its  baroque  aspect  was  studied  by 
Archimede  MARNI  — 835 —  Allegory  in  the  French  Heroic 
Poem  of  the  Seventeenth  Century  (Princeton :  Univ.  Press,  1936) . 
It  reveals  the  endeavor  of  French  poets  like  Saint  Amant  (Mo'ise 
sauve)  to  give  even  descriptions  a  symbolical  meaning;  this 
particular  aspect  of  French  learned  epic  poetry  may  be  related 
to  the  lingering  on  of  late  mediaeval  "hidden  symbolism,,  (Panof- 
sky).  M.  ROMERA-NAVARRO  —836—  "Las  alegorias  del 
'Criticon',"  HR,  IX  (1941),  151-175,  found  the  allegorical  aspect 
in  Gracian  complete,  synthetic,  illusionist  and  full  of  virtuosity; 
whereas  AgustJn  DEL  CAMPO  offers  an  analysis  of  Berceo's 
older  phase  of  this  Spanish  trend  in  — 837 —  "La  tecnica  alego- 
rica  en  la  Introduction  a  los  'Milagros  de  Nuestra  Sen^ra',"  RFE, 
XXVIII  (1944),  15-57. 

c)   Imagery  and  Metaphorism 

The  style  investigators  of  imagery  in  general  prefer,  as  they 
always  have,  the  "easy"  and  picturesque  authors  from  the 
baroque  and  romantic  eras,  to  whom  the  modernists  and  sur- 
realists soon  were  added.  However  they  left  alone  the  "meto- 
nymical"  classical  and  enlightened  works  where  metaphors  occur 
rarely,  and  where  the  abstract  keeps  imagery  at  bay.  In  order 
not  to  disturb  this  fundamental  fact,  we  replace  in  this  little 
chapter  the  chronological  order  by  an  order  of  progression  from 
the  easily  graspable  imagery  to  the  more  difficult  forms  of 
metaphorism. 

V.  Hugo's  grotesque  imagery  was  a  preferred  hunting  ground, 
as  appears  from  the  earliest  almost  lexicographical  studies  like : 
G.  DUVAL  — 838 —  Les  metaphor es  de  Victor  Hugo  (Paris, 
1889)  ;  E.  HUGUET  — 839 —  Les  metaphors  et  les  comparaisons 
dans  Voeuvre  de  V.  Hugo,  vol.  I :  Le  sens  de  la  forme  dans  les  meta- 
phores,  vol.  II:  La  couleur,  la  lumiere  et  V ombre  dans  les  meta- 
phores  (Paris:  Hachette,  1904-05);  and  L.  LUCCHETTI 
— 840 —  Les  images  dans  les  oeuvres  de  V.  Hugo  (Veroli,  1909). 
The  old-fashioned  studies  of  images  and  metaphors  start  from 
the  objects  of  comparison,  and  not  from  the  meaning  of  the 
particular  problems  insisted  on  by  visual  exemplification. 

The  older  view-point  also  prevailed  in  Pierre  DE  LA  JUIL- 
LlERE  — 841 —  Les  images  dans  Rabelais   (Halle:   Niemeyer, 


150  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  842-846 

1912).  He  distinguishes  between  expanded  similes,  short  com- 
parisons and  metaphors  and  arranges  the  rich  material  accord- 
ing to  the  domains  of  life  from  which  the  examples  are  chosen. 
History,  mythology,  the  Bible,  and  proverbs  are  mustered  as  pos- 
sible sources.  A  characteristic  of  Rabelais'  comparisons  is  their 
peculiar  drastic  concreteness :  Un  plat  grand  comme  la  tonne  de 
Citeaux  (I,  38).  This  study  further  distinguishes  between  com- 
parisons with  a  didactic  purpose  and  a  merely  epic-descriptive 
aim,  but  omits  the  humorous  implications.  Even  as  late  as 
1930,  in  Walter  SCHNABEL  — 842 —  Montaignes  Stilkunst, 
erne  Untersuchung  vornehmlich  auf  Grund  seiner  Metaphern, 
Diss.  Breslau,  1930,  Montaigne's  metaphors  were  studied  with 
an  orientation  towards  the  cutouts  from  life  which  provided 
these  metaphors  instead  of  an  orientation  towards  their  artistic 
meaning.  But  Gilbert  MAYER  — 843 —  "Les  images  dans 
Montaigne,  d'apres  le  chapitre  De  V Institution  des  enfants," 
MH,  110-118,  shows,  as  a  disciple  of  Bruneau  was  expected  to 
do  (see  no.  874),  the  skill  of  Montaigne  in  metaphorical  con- 
densation and  profuseness.  Gustave  CHARLIER  — 844 —  "Les 
images  zoologiques  chez  Marnix  de  Sainte-Aldegonde,"  MH, 
141-147,  underlines  the  originality  in  Le  Tableau  des  differends 
de  la  Religion  (1599),  where  Marnix  almost  competes  with 
Rabelais.  A  more  selective  study  is  Elisabeth  M.  RODRIGUE 
— 845 —  "Le  Verger  des  images  de  St.  Francois  de  Sales,"  RR, 
XXXI  (1940),  242-253,  with  such  typical  metaphors  for  devo- 
tion as  "feu  en  hiver  et  rosee  en  ete." 

Among  those  works  dedicated  to  the  study  of  metaphors  in 
classical  poets,  where  they  are  not  so  self-evident  as  with  the 
romantics,  an  outstanding  example  is  Roger  CRETIN  — 846 — 
Les  images  dans  Voeuvre  de  Corneille  (Paris:  Champion,  1927). 
Cretin  sees  for  the  first  time  the  problem  of  the  particular  role 
of  metaphoric  expressions  in  a  language  that  is  intentionally 
antimetaphorical  and  full  of  subdued  allusions;  he  seeks  the 
solution  for  this  kind  of  mitigated  metaphorism  in  peculiar 
new  associations  and  connotations  given  to  the  images-cliches 
in  Corneille,  namely  connotations  which  defrost  the  frozen  meta- 
phors. The  individualization  of  Corneille's  favorite  traditional 
images  comes  from  his  special  psychological  propensities  (move- 
ment and  force).  The  distinction  between  individual,  poetic- 
affective  metaphors  and  collective-metaphoric  designation,  hold- 
ing true  also  in  classical  language  resolves  in  the  most  modern 


847-850  Symbol.   Allegory,  etc.  151 

fashion  the  Cornelian  enigma  of  images.  Corneille  represents 
a  peculiar  method  of  fusing  "images-cliches,  images  pittoresques 
et  images  precieuses"  (p.  232). 

Therese  KOEGEL  — 847 —  Bilder  bei  Madame  de  Sevigne, 
Diss.  Munchen,  1937,  gathers  all  the  proverbial  and  original 
imagery  of  Mme  de  Sevigne  according  to  subject  matter:  water, 
fire,  air,  birds,  reptiles,  insects,  soul,  body,  head,  neck,  shoulders, 
back,  food,  drink,  footwear,  headgear,  worker,  Usher,  peasant, 
painter,  music,  theater,  war  and  peace,  clergy,  etc.  In  view  of 
Mme  de  Sevigne's  classical  restraint,  Therese  Koegel  lists  also 
common  colorful  expressions  used  as  picturesque  patches  like 
devenir  fontaine — to  weep  incessantly,  prendre  le  feu  trop 
chaud — to  exaggerate,  voir  la  lune  d  gauche — to  be  deceived  in 
love,  etc.  Nathan  EDELMANN  —848—  "The  Mixed  Metaphor 
in  Descartes,"  RR,  XLI  (1950),  167-178,  shows  that  Descartes, 
in  dreams,  book  titles,  philosophical  demonstrations,  criticism 
and  polemics,  is  haunted  by  two  almost  inseparable  images: 
the  traveler  and  the  master-builder.  These  images,  branching 
out  into  new  metaphors  and  metaphorical  vocabulary,  prove  that 
the  uncertainty  of  the  traveller  and  the  certainty  of  the  archi- 
tect's plans  reveal  in  a  sort  of  correlation  Descartes'  psycho- 
logical-metaphysical restlessness,  slightly  veiled  by  his  merely 
theoretical  belief  in  philosophical  certitude. 

The  display  of  fanciful  thinking  in  modern  and  contemporary 
literature  is  so  important  that  the  studies  concerning  compari- 
sons and  metaphors  always  arouse  interest,  even  in  authors  who 
follow  the  classic  tradition.  In  Cecil  L.  REW  — 849 —  "Imagi- 
native Comparisons  in  the  Fiction  of  Anatole  France,  an  Attempt 
at  Classification,"  FR,  XVIII  (1944),  100-108,  the  reader  is  sur- 
prised by  Anatole  France's  interest  in  human  eyes,  which  he 
calls  doglike,  catlike,  wolflike,  childlike,  like  velvet,  flames, 
flowers  or  rubies ;  in  voices :  one  "qui  siffle  comme  un  fouet,"  or 
a  thick  voice  like  "un  epais  sirop,"  or  a  melodious  "voix  d'orgue" ; 
in  hair :  "coiff  ee  en  nid  de  viperes,"  or  curling  out  under  the  hat 
"comme  du  chevrefeuille  sur  un  balcon."  Irma  TIEDTKE, 
Symbole  und  Bilder  im  Werke  Marcel  Protests  — 850 —  HSVKR, 
vol.  XXI  (1936),  analyzes  profoundly  the  fusion  between  reality 
and  its  possible  symbolic  interrelation.  Thus  Proust  makes  of  a 
cycling  but  unapproachable  girl,  a  goddess  or  a  nymph,  "le  jeune 
corps  accru  d'une  aile  immense,  ange  ou  peri"  (p.  95).  The 
same  method  makes  of  a  beautiful  epine  rose  blooming  in  May, 


152  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  851-857 

and  sometimes  adorning  the  altars,  an  "arbuste  catholique  et 
delicieux" — nay,  "une  jeune  fille  en  robe  de  fete  .  .  .  souriant 
dans  sa  fraiche  toilette — tout  prete  pour  le  mois  de  Marie"  (p. 
105).  Bernard  LALANDE  — 851 —  "Les  images  dans  le  style 
de  Montesquieu,"  RHPH,  fasc.  39-40  (1944),  262-271,  dealing 
exceptionally  with  an  eighteenth  century  writer,  observes  that 
images  appear  only  when  Montesquieu's  writing  is  spontaneous, 
but  that  as  a  rule  they  are  avoided. 

A  strongly  aesthetical  accent  has  been  laid  on  metaphorical 
beauty  by  Deborah  Amelia  KIRK  AISH  — 852 —  La  metaphore 
dans  Voeuvre  de  Stephane  Mallarme  (Paris:  Droz,  1938).  Miss 
Aish  studies  the  most  exquisite  metaphorical  forms:. "une  forme 
d'hypallage  ou  la  force  principale  de  la  figure  se  concentre  dans 
le  verbe" :  Sur  Vor  glauque  des  lointaines  verdures  ondoie  une 
blancheur  animale  au  repos ;  a  form  of  intelligent  preciosity :  Ce 
petit  livre  vetu  tout  de  rouge  cardinalice ;  a  form  of  metonymical 
implications:  Le  cygne  secouant  sa  neige;  of  epithetical  anima- 
tion :  Crucifix  ennuye  du  mur  vide ;  of  abstract  symbolism :  quand 
des  raisins  fai  suce  la  clarte,  V illusion  s'echappe  comme  une 
source  en  pleurs  (see  no.  1558) . 

Metaphorical  tricks  more  cynically  avowed  than  in  Mallarme 
appear  in  Giraudoux.  They  were  laid  bare  by  Laurence  LE- 
SAGE  —853 —  Jean  Giraudoux's  Use  of  the  Metaphor,  Diss. 
Urbana,  1940,  and  —854—  "The  Cliche  Basis  for  Some  of  the 
Metaphors  of  Jean  Giraudoux,"  MLN,  LVI  (1941),  435-439, 
forerunners  of  his  later  study  mentioned  above:  "Jean  Girau- 
doux, prince  des  precieux"  (see  nos.  609,  1560).  More  serious 
is  the  case  of  Paul  Valery,  whose  metaphors  sometimes  reach 
the  point  where  "la  figure  se  transf  orme  en  realite,"  as  explained 
by  Th.  SPOERRI  — 855 —  "La  puissance  metaphorique  en  P. 
Valery"  in  Valery  (Neuchatel:  A  la  Baconniere,  1945),  177- 
198. 

Turning  to  the  Italian  field,  we  find  the  pedantic  method  of 
statistics  of  metaphors  in  GEORGE  SAINT  CLAIR  — 856 — 
"Dante  Viewed  through  his  Imagery,"  UNMB  (May,  1935) ,  1-77. 
The  English  version  of  the  competent  penetration  of  Dante's 
images  by  Federico  OLIVERO  — 857 —  The  Representation  of 
the  Image  in  Dante  (Torino:  Lattes,  1936),  is  concentrated  on 
the  gradual  appearing  of  the  image,  on  the  accumulation,  nar- 
rowing or  expanding  development  of  pictures,  and  on  that  most 
curious  multiplying  of  similes  which  includes  the  theoretical 


858-865  Symbol.   Allegory,  etc.  153 

comparison  of  a  statement  and  its  illustration  by  examples  from 
nature,  life,  and  Dante's  own  experience.  Walter  NAUMANN 
was  curious  as  to  why  Dante  has  so  many  metaphors  expressing 
the  desire  for  rest  and  the  movement  towards  God.  Starting  from 
this  idea  he  calls  his  study  — 858 —  "Hunger  und  Durst  als 
Metaphern  bei  Dante,"  RF,  LIV  (1940),  13-36.  Such  meta- 
phors are :  che  drizzaste  il  collo  al  pan  de  li  angeli  (Par,  2, 10-11) , 
or  la  perpetua  sete  del  deiforme  regno  (Par.  2,  19-20) . 

That  virtuosity  of  research  and  interpretation  can  still  be 
spent  in  a  very  fertile  manner  on  the  complications  and  impli- 
cations of  Dante's  similes,  is  demonstrated  in  the  detailed  study 
of  M.  ROSSI  — 859 —  "Poesia  e  struttura  nelle  similitudini 
della  terza  cantica,"  in  his  Gusto  filologico  e  gusto  poetico  (Bari : 
Laterza,  1942)  (No.  707).  A  newer  but  superfluous  approach 
to  Dante's  imagery  is  Aleardo  SACCHETTO  — 860 —  II  gioco 
delle  immagini  in  Dante  (Firenze,  1947),  which  adds  nothing 
to  Olivero's  almost  classical  study  (no.  857;  383).  A  very  rich 
field  of  Homeric  epic  similes  is  found  in  the  work  of  Manzoni 
and  has  been  studied  by  C.  PEDRAGLIO  — 861 —  Similitudini  e 
paragoni  di  A.  Manzoni  (Como:  Cavalieri,  1948). 

Imaginative  Spain  oifers  a  particular,  sophisticated  situation, 
even  where  imagery  is  mitigated,  as  may  be  seen  from  A.  A. 
PARKER  —862—  "Theme  and  Imagery  in  Garcilaso's  First 
Eclogue,"  BSS,  XXV  (1946),  222-227.  Miguel  ASl'N  PALA- 
CIOS  — 863 —  "El  simil  de  los  castillos  y  moradas  del  alma  en 
la  mistica  islamica  y  en  Santa  Teresa,"  Al-Andalus,  XI  (1946), 
263-274,  shows  that  the  Saint's  stylistic,  not  mystic  double  con- 
cept of  the  Moradas,  and  of  the  Castillo,  hints  unequivocally  at 
an  Arabic  contemporary  source,  the  anonymous  Nawadir  com- 
piled by  Ahmad  al-Walyubi.  It  goes  without  saying  that  in  the 
Spanish  field  the  exemplifying  similes  of  the  mystics  and  the 
baroque  metaphors  of  Gongora  are  the  constant  object  of  various 
and  curious  investigations.  Very  few  of  them,  however,  belong 
to  the  modern  Stilforschung.  A  few  borderline  cases  may  at 
least  be  mentioned.  An  excellent  classification  of  the  images, 
comparisons  and  similes  of  Santa  Teresa  is  found  in  Luis  D. 
URBANO  — 864 —  "Las  analogias  predilectas  de  Santa  Teresa," 
CT,  XXVII  (1923),  364-383;  XXIX  (1924),  350-370.  A  similar 
piece  of  work,  thoroughly  done,  is  Eunice  Joiner  GATES 
— 865 —  The  Metaphors  of  Luis  de  Gongora  (Philadelphia:  Univ. 
of  Pennsylvania  Press,  1933).    The  same  author  became  inter- 


154  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  866-873 

ested  also  in  the  images  of  the  Gaucho  world  — 866 —  "The 
Imagery  of  Don  Segundo  Sombra,"  HR,  XVI  (1948),  33-49. 
E.  M.  WILSON  —867—  "Image  et  structure  dans  Peribaiiez," 
BH,  LI  (1949) ,  125-159,  tries  to  characterize  from  this  angle  the 
particular  comedia-style  of  Lope  de  Vega  by  a  classic  exempli- 
fication. Enrique  ANDERSON  IMBERT  —868—  "Un  proce- 
dimiento  literario  de  Unamuno,"  in  his  Ensayos  (Tucuman, 
194.6) ,  58-66,  shows  clearly  that  one  of  the  greatest  of  Unamuno's 
achievements  is  his  defrosting  of  frozen  popular  metaphors.  He 
adapts  the  choice  of  his  metaphors  to  the  structure  of  his  novels, 
particularly  in  Abel  Sanchez. 

d)  Epithet 

If  the  epithet  is  the  shrinking  form  of  the  simile,  the  para- 
graph on  metaphors  must  logically  be  followed  by  the  stylistic 
studies  on  the  adjective.  A  very  profound  inquiry  into  Ra- 
cine's epithet,  distinguishing  its  use  and  choice  in  dramatic  and 
lyrical  poetry,  always  different  in  its  artistic  function,  has  been 
offered  by  Erika  Ruth  FREUDEMANN  —869—  Das  Adjectiv 
und  seine  Ausdruckswerte  im  Stil  Ratines,  Diss.  Berlin:  ERS, 
1941.  A  parallel  study,  with  the  entire  material  offered  in  notes, 
is  Luciano  SERRA  —870—  "L'aggetivo  Alfieriano,"  Conv 
(1949) ,  no.  3-4,  465-87.  The  role  of  the  adjective  in  the  chanson 
populaire  found  an  investigator  in  Hans  MUELLER  — 871 — 
Das  schmilckende  Beiwort  im  franzosischen  Volkslied,  Diss. 
Halle,  1936;  and  that  of  another  group  style,  in  Wilfred  A. 
BEARDLEY  —872  —"Use  of  Adjectives  by  the  Spanish  Mys- 
tics," H,  XI   (1928),  29-41. 

Mysie  E.  I.  ROBERTSON  —873—  L'epithete  dans  les  oeuvres 
lyriques  de  Victor  Hugo  (Paris:  Champion,  1927),  most  reliable 
in  spite  of  its  prolixity,  shows  how  important  perspectives  can 
be  attained  by  means  of  a  basic  evaluation.  In  three  introduc- 
tory chapters  Miss  Robertson  discusses  the  forms  of  the  epithet, 
giving  heed  in  general  to  the  grammatical  categories.  She  adds 
an  historical  outline  of  the  epithet  from  the  Bible  to  Victor  Hugo 
(a  sketch  necessarily  containing  many  gaps).  This  survey  is 
followed  by  a  monographic  study  of  the  Hugolian  epithet,  of  its 
grammatical  possibilities,  of  the  history  of  its  literary  evolution 
in  texts  immediately  preceding  Hugo,  of  the  new  forms  created 
by  him,  and  of  the  psychology  of  his  epithet  in  relation  to  the 
outer  and  the  inner  world  of  the  poet  (imagination,  idees,  senti- 


874-877  Synaesthetics  and  Color  Vision  155 

ments  et  emotions).  From  these  considerations,  copiously  docu- 
mented with  references,  are  gathered  the  Deductions  esthetiques : 
V.  Hugo  is  the  creator  of  the  modern  lyric  epithet. 

Gilbert  MAYER  — 874 —  La  qualification  affective  dans  les 
romans  d'Honore  de  Balzac,  These,  Paris :  Droz,  1940,  is  a  typi- 
cal specimen  of  Bally-stylistics.  The  work  of  Balzac  is  en- 
visaged from  the  view-point  of  a  style  investigator  interested  in 
the  fusion  of  literary  and  familiar  language.  Consequently 
what  interests  M.  Mayer  are  the  means  of  an  affective  use  of 
qualificatives  of  all  kinds  in  Balzac's  French:  choice  and  place 
of  the  epithet,  its  replacement  by  nouns  used  as  attributes  and 
as  appositions,  substantifications  of  the  type  le  bleu  du  del  for 
le  del  bleu,  metaphors  of  the  type  ce  bijou  for  cet  enfant,  exag- 
gerations, ironic  and  indetermined  use  of  adjectives,  wordplay, 
word  order,  contrast  and  intonation  in  order  to  get  new  means 
of  qualification.  The  author  himself  is  surprised  how  little  he 
has  stressed  the  unique  constellation  of  all  these  stylistic  means 
in  Balzac  in  order  to  characterize  Balzac's  individual  style.  In- 
stead— despite  his  rich  and  impeccable  inventory — he  comes  to 
the  surprising  conclusion: 

Nous     esperons     avoir    apporte    une     modeste     contribution     a 
l'etude  de  la  stylistique  du  fran^ais  moderne.     Malgre  l'ambition 
de  notre  titre,  nous  avons  bien  l'impres9ion  de  livrer  ici  le  moins 
balzacien  des  travaux  sur  Balzac  (p.  394). 

E.     Synaesthesia  and  Color  Vision 

Concerning  the  fusing  of  the  perceptions  of  the  different 
senses  in  the  audition  coloree  and  similar  phenomena,  there  is  a 
kind  of  introductory  study  by  W.  B.  STANFORD  —875— 
"Synaesthetic  Metaphor,"  CLS,  VI- VII  (1942),  26-30.  Cer- 
tainly the  most  conspicuous  object  for  such  a  study  was  Verlaine. 
This  poet  therefore  furnished  the  many  examples  for  the  early, 
rich  and  instructive  dissertation  of  W.  FLEISCHER  — 876 — 
Synaesthesie  und  Metapher  in  Verlaines  Dichtungen,  Diss. 
Greifswald,  1911.  The  audition  coloree  was  not  invented  by  the 
symbolists,  however,  Kurt  Otto  WEISE  finds  already  — 877 — 
"Synaesthesien  bei  Balzac,"  ASNS,  CLXXII  (1937),  173-187, 
and  very  drastic  ones  at  that :  "Une  lumiere  douee  de  parole  lui 
versait  les  divines  melodies,"  or  "Ce  poeme  de  fleurs  lumineuses 
qui  bourdonnait  incessamment  ses  melodies  au  coeur,"  (p.  176) . 
Studies  on  earlier  authors  concern  color  as  opposed  to  sound  or 


156  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  878-889 

design.  Thus  W.  HEEGE  — 878 —  Die  optischen  und  akusti- 
schen  Sinmesdaten  in  Bernardin  de  Saint-Pierres  'Paul  et  Vir- 
ginia und  Chateaubriands  'Atala,'  Diss.  Stuttgart,  1917,  tries  to 
separate  the  elements  of  vision  and  audition  and  gives  good  in- 
sights into  the  literary  creations  of  both  authors. 

Etienne  de  ULLMANN  — 879 —  "L'art  de  la  transposition 
dans  la  poesie  de  Theophile  Gautier,"  FM,  XV  (1947),  265-236, 
analyzes  the  synthetic  style  of  Gautier  in  its  half  artificial,  half 
spontaneous  development  as  of  a  poet  who  was  interested  in  the 
inter-sensorial  exchanges.  He  was  struck  by  hermaphroditism 
and  "Contralto."  The  range  and  extent  of  his  influential  deca- 
dent synesthesias  is  considerable.  The  same  Etienne  de  ULL- 
MANN shows  that  — 880 —  "La  transposition  sensorielle  chez 
Leconte  de  Lisle,"  FM,  XIV  (1946),  23-40,  makes  him  in  world 
literature  a  half-sy^naesthetic  poet  between  Longfellow  and 
Oscar  Wilde.  Compared  to  Baudelaire,  however,  he  uses  syn- 
aesthesia  rather  against  his  program.  Clotilde  M.  WILSON 
_881—  "Proust's  Color  Vision,"  FR,  XVI  (1942-43),  411-415, 
far  from  real  aesthetical  interests,  finds  that  Proust's  preferred 
color  was  mauve.  Color  studies  have  been  done  on  the  Belgian 
Camille  Lemonnier  by  K.  GLASER  —882—  "Le  sens  de  la 
couleur  et  son  expression  chez  C.  Lemonnier,"  FM,  II  (1934), 
113-122;  on  Ronsard  by  Gerard  DAVIS  —883—  "Color  in  Ron- 
sard's  Poetry,"  MLR,  XL  (1945),  95-104;  on  Baif,  Belleau,  Du 
Bellay  etc.  by  S.  L.  LEVENGOOD,  The  Use  of  Color  in  the  Verse 
of  the  Pleiade,  Diss.  Princeton,  1927;  and  on  Camoes  by  M. 
MtiRIAS  DE  FREITAS  —885—  "Figuras  de  colorido  na  lirica 
de  Camoes,"  BF,  III  (1934-35),  99-152. 

Extended  to  the  problem  of  color  versus  design,  the  same 
question  has  been  studied  in  Victor  Hugo  by  H.  MATT  — 886— 
Das  visuelle  Element  in  der  Kunst  V.  Hugos,  Diss.  Freiburg, 
1934.  How  beauty  and  clarity  are  maintained  in  a  maze  of  color 
and  exquisite  suggestions  as  the  very  essence  of  Gongora's  art 
was  masterfully  brought  home  to  the  reader  by  DAmaso  ALONSO 
_887—  "Claridad  y  belleza  de  las  soledades,"  RCM,  XXXIV 
(1939),  8-27,  or  EPE,  189-216,  both  reprints  of  the  introduction 
to  his  Gongora  edition  (1927).  The  interdependence  of  melo- 
diousness and  visualization  in  Tasso's  art  was  worked  out  by 
L.  COLLI  — 888 —  La  musicalitd  e  il  colore  nella  Gerusalemme 
(Napoli:  Di  Lauro,  1936).  Many  other  items  along  these  lines 
will  be  found  in  SlGMUND  SKARD  —889—  The  Use  of  Color  in 


890-891  Description  157 

Literature,  Proceedings  of  the  American  Philosophical  Society, 
vol.  90,  No.  3  (1946),  163-249.  The  critical  introduction  of  this 
work  is  no  less  valuable  than  the  very  careful  and  exhaustive 
bibliography. 

A  certain  mistrust  with  regard  to  studies  concerning  visual- 
ization and  color  problems  is  always  warranted,  because  these 
studies  take  for  granted  the  Horatian  "Ut  pictura  poesis"  and 
are  often  only  interested  in  color  symbolism  as  such,  not  in  the 
stylistic  use  of  color  in  a  particular  literary  structure.  The 
same  holds  true  for  studies  on  local  color,  for  which  we  quote 
one  example  only,  J.  W.  HOVENKAMP  —890—  Merimee  et  la 
covleur  locale  (Paris:  Les  Belles  Lettres,  1928).  He  investi- 
gates the  types  of  local  color  in  Merimee,  which  develop  from  a 
conventional  to  a  fantastic  and  picturesque,  even  realistic  form 
and  nevertheless  remain  fundamentally  romantic.  For  further 
material,  always  on  the  border  line  of  stylistics,  we  refer  again 
to  the  bibliography  of  Skard  (no.  889). 

F.     Description 

For  the  sake  of  simplicity  and  convenience  the  problem  of 
stylistic  description  of  nature  and  landscape  (the  numerous  psy- 
chological studies  on  the  sentiment  of  nature  not  being  consid- 
ered here)  will  be  presented  first  in  its  conscious  form  as  real- 
ized for  the  first  time  by  the  writers  of  the  eighteenth  and  nine- 
teenth centuries ;  second,  in  the  slight  trends  of  landscape  pres- 
entation as  they  appear  in  earlier  centuries;  third,  in  the  im- 
pressionistic and  realistic  forms  competing  with  painting,  even 
with  existing  paintings,  in  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  and 
in  the  twentieth  century.  This  latter  trend  certainly  starts  from 
the  attempt  at  describing  paintings  as  such,  which  is  tantamount 
to  the  origin  of  art  criticism  from  stylistic  description  of  pic- 
tures. An  older  competitor  of  art  is  the  literary  portrait,  going 
however  more  deeply  into  psychology. 

It  is  well  known  that  nature  description  in  the  modern  sense 
is  anchored  in  J.  J.  Rousseau.  Thus  Margaret  Louise  BUCH- 
NER  — 891 —  A  Contribution  to  the  Study  of  the  Descriptive 
Technique  of  Jean  Jacques  Rousseau  (Baltimore:  JHS,  vol.  30, 
1937),  analyzes  Rousseau's  products  of  descriptive  style  as 
"thumb-nail  sketches"  of  a  restricted  palette  with  the  basic  tones 
of  black,  white,  red  and  blue,  and  occasional  shadings  of  brown, 
rose,  ashen,  blond.    For  her  Rousseau  anticipates  modern  impres- 


158  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  892-899 

sionism.  In  hi?  work  she  discovers  numberless  sensations  in 
such  language  as :  "Des  festons  de  neige  etaient  le  seul  ornement 
de  ces  arbres,"  or  "Cette  eau  bleue  dont  j'entendis  le  mugisse- 
ment  a  travers  les  cris  des  corbeaux,"  or  "Le  marcher  mol  et 
doux  sur  la  pelouse."  The  same  problem  was  handled  by  M.  S. 
DEL  GROSSO  — 892 —  J.  J.  Rousseau  et  les  descriptions  de  la 
nature  (Pompei:  Societa  Tipografica  Pontincia,  1937).  F.  R. 
POPE  — 893 —  Nature  in  the  Works  of  C.  Lemonftier  (New 
York:  Columbia  Univ.,  1933),  studies  a  type  of  description  which 
is  modern,  exuberant,  and  naturalistic.  Lemonnier's  colors  and 
similes  have  always  aroused  interest  (no.  304  and  882).  HlA 
LANDAU  — 894 —  "La  peinture  et  Tart  d'ecrire  chez  Demolder," 
FM,  VII  (1939),  55-68,  describes  the  landscapes  of  this  Belgian 
as  "hypertrophique  de  Tenement  descriptif,,  and  as  given  in  the 
true  language  of  the  painter  (p.  61).  Natural  objects  of  a  cer- 
tain color  stand  for  the  color  itself  (p.  65).  Abstracts  have 
color  qualificatives,  and  verbs  are  lacking  in  this  style  of  "points 
d'exclamation"  (p.  68).  Compared  to  these  truly  stylistic 
studies,  the  older  dissertation  patterns  of  landscape  descriptions 
are  not  very  resourceful,  e.g.  P.  BARTL  — 895 —  Die  Natur- 
schilderung  in  Senancours  Obermann,  Diss.  Tubingen,  1911. 

Thomas  Campbell  WALKER  — 896 —  Chateaubriand's  Nat- 
ural  Scenery.  A  study  of  his  descriptive  art  (Baltimore:  JHSf 
Extra  Vol.  XXI,  1946),  studies  Chateaubriand's  "nature"  in  all 
directions  as  a  pre-realistic  setting  reconstructed  from  memory, 
consciously  tending  to  give  "environment."  Chateaubriand  goes 
beyond  the  painter's  possibilities  by  stressing  sounds  and  odors, 
and  by  incorporating  the  traditional  classical,  sentimental  and 
picturesque  description  into  his  pattern.  A  careful  tabulation 
of  Chateaubriand's  colors  and  shaded  expressions  for  colors 
complements  the  study.  According  to  Walker's  predecessor, 
Fritz  MUELLER  — 897 —  Die  Landschaftsschilderungen  in 
den  erzahlenden  Dichtungen  Chateaubriands,  Diss.  Kiel,  1905, 
Chateaubriand  overdid  his  virtuosity  in  these  descriptions  to  the 
point  where  he  ignored  description's  function.  Realistic  ele- 
ments in  landscape  description  were  analyzed  by  K.  WEISS 
— 898 —  Die  Landschdftsschilderung  bei  Andre  Theuriet,  Diss., 
Rostock,  1933. 

RUTH  ROSENBAUM,  choosing  a  particularly  fit  subject  for 
the  treatment  of  nature  elements,  studies  nature  description  in 
Verhaeren's  naturistic  lyricism  — 899 —  Die  Natur  in  der  Lyrik 


900-912  Description  159 

Verhaerens,  Diss.  Konigsberg,  1935;  Kurt  SIEBERT  did  the 
same  for  Pereda's  Spanish  novels  — 900 —  Die  Naturs}childerun~ 
gen  in  Peredas  Romanen,  HSVKR,  vol.  12  (1932).  A  quite  new 
approach  to  our  problem  comes  from  Johannes  RODIGER 
— 901 —  Darstellungen  der  geographischen  Naturbetrachtung 
bei  Fontenelle,  Pluche  und  Buffon  in  methodischer  und  stilis- 
tischer  Hinsicht,  Diss.  Leipzig,  1935.  Hildegard  KUHN  spe- 
cialized in  the  sea  and  mountain  descriptions  of  Michelet  — 902 — 
Michelets  Landschaftsschilderungen  in  La  mer  und  La  mon- 
tagne,  Diss.  Wurzburg:  BKR,  1933.  These  typified  disserta- 
tions are  not  without  danger  since  they  ignore  literary  art  as 
such.  Thus  Sister  M.  Aline  GELSON  — 903 —  An  Analysis  of 
the  Realistic  Elements  in  the  Novels  of  Rene  Bazin,  Diss.,  Catho- 
lic University,  Washington,  1942,  speaks  more  about  Bazin's 
realistic  experiences  in  life  than  about  their  verbal  transforma- 
tions in  literature.  It  was  particularly  the  University  of  Chi- 
cago which  fostered  this  type  of  dissertation,  as  can  be  seen  from 
E.  P.  DARGAN,  W.  L.  CRAIN  et  al.  —904—  Studies  in  Balzac's 
Realism  (Chicago:  Univ.  Press,  1932),  or  Kathryn  Relle 
HILDEBRAN  — 905 —  Elements  of  Realism  in  the  Novels  of 
George  Sand,  1832-^8,  Diss.,  Chicago,  1941,  typewritten  or  print- 
ed abstract.  In  the  chapter  on  occupations,  pp.  90-115,  there  is 
an  example  of  the  method:  the  "exact"  realism  of  "farming 
operations"  reaches  its  peak  in  Valentine,  Andre  and  La  Mare  au 
Diable.  Such  artistically  meaningless  facts  are  stated  and  not 
proved  to  be  possibly  relevant  from  a  stylistic  and  structural 
angle. 

Among  the  Italian  studies  we  may  single  out  G.  LIPPARINI 
— 906 —  G.  Carducci  und  die  italienische  Landschaft  (Roma: 
Enit,  1935),  as  being  more  stylistically  informed  than  F.  HEFTI 
— 907 —  Giosue  Carducci  als  Dichter  der  Natur,  Diss.,  Bern, 
1933  or  B.  SANMINIATELLI  —908—  La  natura  neW  arte  del 
Pascoli  (Firenze:  Sansoni,  1937),  or  O.  BASSI  —909 —  "II  senso 
della  campagna  nella  poesia  pariniana,"  Conv.  X  (1938),  290- 
300.  Diego  VALERI  —910—  "Paesaggi  Manzoniani,"  T,  IV 
(1946),  131-134,  explains  well  how  the  merely  suggested  land- 
scapes in  a  restrained  classical  style  are  made  visible  by  nega- 
tive epithets  full  of  meaning :  "luna  senza  raggio,"  "quasi  giorno," 
"ignoti  fiumi,"  "valli  senza  sentier."  There  is  in  addition  the 
technically  perfect  Swiss  dissertation:  L.  WIRTH  — 911 —  Die 
Landschaft  in  Fogazzaros  Romanen,  Diss.  Zurich,  1928,  and  the 
other  by  R.  FERRARIS  —912—  Das  Naturgefuhl  bei  G.  Verga, 


160  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  913-918 

Diss.  Zurich,  1929.  But  the  shifting  of  interest  from  the  de- 
scription to  the  now  fortunately  abandoned  "sentiment"  behind 
it  reminds  us  again  of  the  borderline  of  style  investigations. 

In  the  Spanish  field  Guillermo  DiAZ  PLAJA  —913 —  "Las 
descripciones  en  las  leyendas  Cidianas,"  BH,  XXV  (1933),  5-22, 
distinguishes  in  the  old  Poema  de  mio  Cid  static  as  well  as  dy- 
namic elements  of  landscape  and  action.  The  examples  which 
he  gathers  and  classifies  open  our  eyes  for  the  snapshot  method 
in  this  medieval  classic:  Apriessa  cantan  los  gallos  e  quieren 
crebrar  albores.  Such  is  the  evocative  description  of  dawn  over 
the  ciudades  like  Valencia,  la  \clara,  la  mayor  with  their  puertas 
abiertas  e  ugos  sin  candados,  whereas  engagements  and  wed- 
dings are  announced  in  a  realistic  way:  En  bragos  tenedes  mis 
fijas  tan  blancas  como  el  sol,  and  presages  and  apprehensions  are 
tinged  by  everyday  life :  A  la  exida  de  Bivar  ovieron  la  corneja 
diestra.  Diaz  Plaja,  not  profound  at  all,  was  followed  by  a  still 
more  vague  study  by  FerrAn  DE  POL  — 914 —  "El  paisaje  en 
el  poema  del  Cid,"  FLU,  XXI  (1946),  79-86,  and  —915—  "El 
paisaje  en  Garcilaso  de  la  Vega,"  ib.,  XX  (1945) ,  79-90.  Ferran  de 
Pol  gathers  desperately  the  few  passages  available  for  his  topic, 
and  discovers  "paisajes  en  funci6n  de  la  guerra;  como  lugar  de 
sustento;  como  mero  recurso  narrative,  de  tristeza,  de  alegria" 
etc.  He  is  more  convincing  in  dealing  with  Garcilaso,  and  can 
establish  Virgilian  parallels. 

The  artistic  side  of  realism  is  not  sufficiently  taken  into  con- 
sideration and  is  stifled  by  the  factual  interests  here  as  well  as 
in  Ruth  STANTON  —916—  "The  Realism  of  Mauricio  Mag- 
daleno,"  H,  XXII  (1939),  345-354,  an  essay  of  a  beginner.  The 
countless  studies  on  the  "realism"  of  an  author  (see  no.  900) 
often  state  simply,  "sans  nuance,"  that  an  author  imitated  nature 
in  a  direct,  photographic  and  impassive  way.  But  there  is  a 
modern,  well-shaded  piece  of  work :  Manuel  DE  PAIVA  BOLEO 
— 917 —  O  realismo  de  Ega  de  Queiroz  e  a  sua  expressao  artistica 
(Coimbra,  1941).  Paiva  Boleo  knows  all  the  secrets  of  modern 
style  investigation,  skims  all  the  problems  involved,  and  has 
them  followed  by  an  excellent  bibliography.  The  audacity  of 
the  Portuguese  Flaubert,  in  portraying  the  intimate  aspects  of 
life,  was  brought  home  by  L.  E.  V.  SYLVANIA  —918—  "Realism 
in  the  Novels  of  Eca  de  Queiros,"  in  Todd  Memorial  Volumes 
(New  York:  Columbia  Univ.  Press,  1930),  II,  193-205. 

Because  the  descriptive  "transpositions  d'art"  from  painting 


919-925  Description  161 

to  literature  have  striking  features  even  for  the  stylistically- 
blind,  there  is  no  need  of  explaining  why  the  studies  in  literary 
impressionism  have  become  top-ranking.  The  final  harvest  of 
these  studies  unfortunately  is  in  no  proportion  to  their  long 
listings  of  self-evident  traits.  Hans  SCHNEIDER  —919— 
Maupassant  als  Impressionist  in  'Une  vie/  'La  Maison  Tellier,' 
'Au  Soleil,'  ARP,  vol.  9  (Minister,  1934),  simply  calls  Maupas- 
sant an  impressionist  because  he  presents  speech  directly,  uses 
the  picturesque  imperfect,  indulges  in  nominal  style  and  in  cer- 
tain types  of  word  order.  Jumping  from  the  historical  to  the 
phenomenological  use  of  the  word  impressionism,  Heinrich 
WIEMANN  — 920 —  Impressionismus  im  Sprachgebrauch  La 
Fontaines,  ARP,  vol.  8  (Miinster,  1934),  attempts  a  study  on  La 
Fontaine  that  classifies  as  "impressionistic"  such  archaic  old 
French  expressions  and  word  order,  discovered  in  verse  and 
poetry,  as  la  belette  mangerai,  le  cerf  il  depega,  sur  un  arbre  je 
grimpe.  The  author  finds  impressionistic  also  the  historical  in- 
finitives (souris  de  revenir),  as  well  as  the  emotional-ironical 
adjectives  placed  before  the  substantives  (la  grecque  beaute,  la 
dindonniere  gent)  and  the  verbless  indications  interpreted  as 
nominal  clauses  in  paix  generate  cette  fois,  or  belle  legon  pour  les 
gens  chiehes.  There  is  more  in  Hellmuth  REITZ  — 921 — 
Impressionistische  und  expressionistische  Stilmittel  bei  Arthur 
Rimbaud,  Diss.,  Munchen,  1939,  because  this  author  makes  clear 
distinctions  between  the  meaning  of  a  nominal  sentence,  a  re- 
placement of  the  normal  epithet  by  substantivations  of  different 
types  (le  bleu  de  leur  fenetre,  la  lumiere  nature),  and  coordina- 
tion instead  of  subordination,  etc.  The  recipe  "impressionism 
and  expressionism"  had  been  tried  earlier  with  Zola  by  H. 
HOPPE  — 922 —  Impressionismus  und  Expressionismus  bei 
Emile  Zola,  Diss.,  Miinster,  1933.  The  idea  of  "expressionism" 
taken  from  German  literature  is  too  vague  a  category  to  cover 
what  is  at  issue  in  French  literature.  After  Martha  VOGLER's 
dissertation  on  the  creative  values  in  Verlaine  — 923 —  Die 
schopferischen  Werte  in  Verlaines  Lyrik,  Diss.,  Zurich,  1927,  it 
was  not  a  good  idea  of  Karola  ROST  to  repeat  her  in  writing  a 
dry  thesis  on  — 924 —  Der  impressionistische  Stil  Verlaines, 
ARP,  vol.  29  (Miinster,  1936). 

August  LANGEN  —925—  "Die  Technik  der  Bildbeschreibung 
in  Diderot's  Salons,"  RF,  LXI  (1948),  324-387,  gives  an  excel- 
lent insight  into  the  double  problem  which  confronted  Diderot  in 
his  first  attempt  at  description  of  painted  pictures.    One  of  these 


162  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  926-929 

problems  concerns  style  and  vocabulary  which  were  lacking  to 
art  criticism  and  had  to  be  created;  the  second  concerns  the 
systematic  procedure  in  enumerating  the  objects  and  elements 
of  the  pictures.  This  enumeration  is  sometimes  still  so  awk- 
wardly done  that  Diderot  starts  in  one  corner  of  the  picture  and 
ends  in  another.    Later  he  begins  to  see  structures. 

Antun  POLANSCAK  — 926 —  La  peinture  du  decor  et  de  la 
nature  chez  Marcel  Proust,  These,  Paris,  1941,  is  not  a  very  im- 
portant study.  It  includes,  however,  not  only  landscape  but  ges- 
tures, attitudes,  and  "interieurs,"  and  distinguishes  between 
static,  strictly  pictorial,  extratemporal  and  moving  pictures;  a 
particular  point  is  the  aggrandizing  element.  Maurice  E. 
CHERNOWITZ  —927—  Proust  and  Painting  (New  York:  In- 
ternational Univ.  Press,  1945),  discovers  the  painterly  compari- 
sons, metaphors  and  analogies,  the  direct  descriptions  of  paint- 
ings, and  the  new  view  of  nature  through  paintings  as  the  funda- 
mental means  of  Proust's  synthetic  presentation  of  material, 
characters,  emotions  and  life.  Painting,  particularly  impres- 
sionism, is  the  force  of  his  intricate  style.  This  is  a  unique  ac- 
complishment of  tendencies  expressed  since  Diderot,  but  never 
achieved  before,  and  upsets  the  aesthetical  theories  of  Lessing.  * 

Frances  Virginia  FARDWELL  — 928 —  Landscape  in  the 
Works  of  Marcel  Proust,  Diss.,  Cath.  Univ.,  Washington,  1948, 
inquired  into  the  artistic  genesis  as  well  as  the  artistic  func- 
tions of  the  landscapes,  seascapes  and  skyscapes  in  Proust.  She 
distinguishes  observed,  remembered,  and  psychological  land- 
scapes, landscapes  seen  through  pictures  and  through  love  ex- 
periences. Alexander  HARTMANN  — 929 —  C.  F.  Ramuz. 
Mensch,  Werk  und  Landschaft,  Diss.  Leipzig,  1937,  in  the  second 
part  of  this  study,  "Die  Landschaft"  (pp.  90-145),  uses  a  very 
commendable  procedure:  Hartmann  sharply  distinguishes  be- 
tween the  elements  of  landscape  and  their  stylization.  Some  ele- 
ments are,  for  instance:  the  vineyard  and  the  lake  at  different 
times  of  the  day,  the  Rhone,  the  Alps  with  their  peasants  and 
dangers  of  the  mountains,  the  atmosphere,  clouds,  storms,  sun, 
stars,  seasons,  animals,  and  plants.  Stylizations  are  landscapes 
observed  by  the  author  when  climbing  or  descending  the  Alps, 
landscapes  in  light  and  shade  as  framed  pictures,  combined  with 
the  sounds  of  nature,  sometimes  steeped  in  deep  silence,  and 
sometimes  even  seen  as  personifications.  Comparisons  with 
Cezanne,  van  Gogh  and  Hodler  illustrate  different  points.    This 


930-934  Dynamism  and  Animation  163 

Leipzig  dissertation  has  a  counterpart  in  N.  LAUCHENAUER 
— 930 —  Ramuz'  Verhaltrris  zum  Gegenstdndlichen,  Diss.,  Zurich, 
1937. 

Eva  Maria  NEUMEYER  —931—  'The  Landscape  Garden  as 
a  Symbol  in  Rousseau/Goethe  and  Flaubert,"  JHI,  VIII  (1947), 
187-217,  has  worked  out  a  problem  never  considered  before, 
namely  that  the  landscape  garden  in  Rousseau  is  a  serious  sym- 
bol of  his  nature  concept,  whereas  with  the  loss  of  this  symbolic 
character  in  the  works  of  his  successors  it  appears  odd,  mean- 
ingless and  finally  ridiculous. 

The  particular  form  of  description  called  portrait  has  found 
various  wholesale  surveys,  but  only  one  profound  study:  Leo 
SPITZER  —932—  "Saint  Simons  Portrait  Ludwig  XIV."  KRA, 
II  (1931),  1-47.  In  Spitzer's  study,  as  one  would  expect,  the 
verbal  elements  are  considered  most  important,  although,  as 
Spitzer  underscores,  they  are  in  this  particular  study  relegated 
to  the  footnotes.  The  portrait  of  St.  Simon  turns  out  to  be  a 
medallion,  the  traits  of  which  become  sharp  by  a  process  of  slow 
accretion  which  carries  along  also  a  considerable  amount  of  de- 
structive and  disillusioning  criticism.  For  nosographic  descrip- 
tion, there  is  a  fresh  approach  by  Sylvia  Narins  LEVY  — 933 — 
"Proust's  Realistic  Treatment  of  Illness,"  FR,  XV  (1942),  233- 
38;  324-29;  421-24.  She  reveals  Proust's  stylistic  accuracy  in 
rendering  the  phenomena  of  neurasthenia,  uraemia,  etc.,  and  the 
reactions  of  the  healthy  to  the  sick.  Proust,  says  Miss  Levy, 
sometimes  resembles  Zola  in  his  naturalistic  descriptions. 

G.     Dynamism  and  Animation 

A  German  dissertation  on  the  nature  descriptions  of  Pereda 
deserved  translation  into  Spanish  because  Miss  Gerda  OUTZEN 
discovered  — 934 —  El  dinamismo  en  la  obra  de  Pereda  (San- 
tander:  Martinez,  1935)  in  well  grasped  details  never  noticed  by 
anyone  before  him.  She  finds  dynamism  in  Pereda's  heaping 
up  of  short  sentences,  effective  repetitions,  bewitching  groups 
of  three  adjectives,  and  rapid  dialogues  made  up  of  so  called 
"miembros  engarzados."  But  there  is  dynamism  particularly  in 
his  fragmentation  of  majestic  and  overwhelming  aspects  of 
mountain  landscape.  Pereda  does  not  use  this  technique  of 
dynamic  fragmentation,  however,  for  character  drawing.  Less 
articulate  in  title  and  object  of  investigation,  albeit  with  the 


164  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  935-939 

same  purpose,  was  Gerda  SCHWOCKEL  — 935 —  Die  Belebt- 
heit  des  Stils  in  der  Darstellungsart  des  Jules  Verne,  Diss.,  Bres- 
lau,  1935.  Another  dissertation  along  the  same  line  is  Bert  A 
GANTENBEIN  — 936 —  Die  Beseelung  des  unbelebten  Dinges 
bei  Charles  Louis  Philippe,  Diss.,  Zurich  (Strasbourg,  1935). 
She  tries  to  prove  that  Ch.  L.  Philippe  overcomes  naturalism 
stylistically  by  a  new  type  of  animalism  in  which  things  have 
their  own  life  (La  lampe  dont  la  lumiere  versait  un  silence), 
often  in  paradoxical  short-cuts  (Ce  sont  les  machines  a  coudre 
qui  sont  mortes  et  les  cimetieres  qui  sont  vivants — because  there 
are  flowers  and  green  leaves) — or  vivid  metaphorical  statements 
(Les  chevaux  de  bois  sont  un  abrege  des  merveilles  des  cieux  .  .  . 
Je  leur  donne  toute  ma  bourse) . 

H.     Narrative  Devices 

The  stylistic  range  of  narrative  devices  as  far  as  they  were 
studied  comprises  the  conduct  of  an  action,  the  introduction  of 
persons,  the  framing  of  a  tale,  as  well  as  the  choice  of  tenses 
and  moods  to  shade  and  subjectivize  narration  and  literary  cli- 
mate. It  is  a  pity  that  in  this  interesting  field  so  little  has  been 
done,  and  that  scarcely  more  than  one  or  two  examples  can  be 
listed  for  each  type  of  device.  The  understanding  of  forms  of 
action,  of  telling  a  story,  characterizing  persons  in  their  inter- 
play, well  described  and  analyzed  by  critics  generally,  still  gains 
in  clarity  by  charts  and  diagrams  which  prove  so  very  helpful  in 
Dorothy  Madeleine  McGHEE  — 937 —  Voltairian  Narrative 
Devices  as  Considered  in  the  Author's  Contes  philosophiques 
(Menasha,  Wisconsin:  Banta,  1933).  A  small  article  with  a 
similar  aim  is  Kurt  GLASER  — 938 —  "Procedes  de  composition 
chez  Camille  Lemonnier,"  Neo,  XXXIII  (1937-1938),  11-13, 
which  discusses  the  psychology  evident  in  the  naturalistic  de- 
scriptions of  Therese  Monique. 

Otto  LOEHMANN  — 939 —  Die  Rahmenerzdhlung  des  De- 
cameron. Ihre  Quellen  und  Nachivirkungen  (Halle:  Niemeyer, 
1935),  makes  clear,  although  somewhat  clumsily,  that  the  orien- 
tal predecessors  as  well  as  the  Italian,  French  and  Spanish  suc- 
cessors of  Boccaccio,  using  a  frame  story  for  novels,  cannot  help 
illustrating,  though  negatively,  Boccaccio's  unique  and  outstand- 
ing aesthetic  achievement  (pp.  116-120).  The  frame  fused  with 
the  stories  is  kept  in  a  dimmer  light  than  the  novels  themselves 


940-943  Narrative  Devices  165 

but  is  the  bearer  of  nature  descriptions  and  graceful  episodes  as 
well  as  the  foil  of  gruesome  tones  (plague).  The  frame  gives 
seriousness  to  the  tales  of  a  wanton  color.  Here  is  an  edifice 
well  constructed,  as  opposed  to  the  rubble  of  stones  in  those 
frame  stories  which  can  not  even  copy  Boccaccio. 

Introduction  and  re-introduction  of  characters  was  the  con- 
cern of  Ethel  PRESTON  in  her  — 940 —  Recherches  sur  la 
technique  de  Balzac  (Paris :  Presses  franchises,  1926) .  She  takes 
into  consideration  the  manner  of  presentation,  systematically 
repeated,  of  the  same  characters  in  different  novels  of  the 
Comedie  humaine.  The  author  establishes  the  fact  that  of  the 
2000  characters  occurring  in  the  86  novels,  460  appear  several 
times  in  75  novels.  Balzac  first  chose  this  procedure  in  1834, 
and  rearranged,  in  accordance  therewith,  the  antecedent  novels 
(since  1829).  It  is  as  though  each  hero  were  given  a  leitmotif: 
sometimes  heroes  have  special  idiosyncrasies  like  Balthasar 
Claes;  others  carry  traits  of  their  former  life  into  subsequent 
novels  (for  example  the  Viscountess  of  Beauseant  in  La  femme 
abandonnee,  1832,  and  in  he  pere  Goriot,  1834).  The  traits  of 
secondary  characters  undergo  an  extreme  fragmentation — this 
is  what  happens  with  Henri  de  Marsay  in  the  course  of  25  novels. 
The  repetition  of  the  same  characters  helps  to  clarify  the 
milieu  by  means  of  combinations  always  new.  Another  "tech- 
nique" is  that  in  all  the  noble  and  bourgeois  families  a  cult  is 
given  to  an  ancestor  who  personifies  glory.  Thus  a  symbolic 
hero  is  introduced  who  dominates  the  scene.  Napoleon  is  pre- 
sented in  person  three  times  and  rules  like  a  ghost  over  the 
youth  of  the  ambitious  post-Napoleonic  epoch. 

Miss  Preston's  study  was  supplemented  by  A.  G.  CANFIELD 
— 941 —  "Balzac's  Technique  of  Reappearing  Characters,"  PMLA 
(1929),  267-277,  and — 942 —  "Les  personnages  reparaissant 
dans  la  Comedie  humaine,"  RHL,  XLI  (1934),  15-31;  198-214. 
The  principle  by  which  Marcel  Proust  introduces  his  characters 
was  the  concern  of  Hermann  BLACKERT  — 943 —  Der  Aufbau 
der  KunsUvirklichkeit  bei  Marcel  Proust.  Aufgezeigt  an  der 
Ein\fiihrung  der  Personen  (Berlin:  Junker  und  Diinnhaupt, 
1935) .  The  central  problem  of  a  dream  reality  gradually  becom- 
ing life  is  exemplified  by  a  particular  technique  of  developing 
new  characters  to  clarity  out  of  an  atmosphere  of  haze. 


166  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  944-946 

I.     Tenses  and  Moods 

Tatiana  FOTITCH  —944—  The  Narrative  Tenses  in  Chre- 
tien De  Troyes.  A  Study  in  Syntax  and  Stylistics,  Diss.  Catholic 
University,  Washington,  D.  C,  1950,  analyzes  the  meaning  of 
the  tenses  and  their  use  in  the  Old  French  language  of  the 
twelfth  century.  She  uses  this  analysis  as  a  springboard  for 
showing  how  Chretien's  narrative  skill  handles  them  individually 
with  artistic  purposes  in  the  framework  of  structure  and  com- 
position of  his  single  romances.  She  shows  by  many  well  inter- 
preted details  that  Chretien  weaves  present,  imperfect  and  passe 
defini  into  a  well  wrought  "petit-point  tapestry"  (p.  84).  Tudor 
VIANU  — 945 —  "Le  pseudo-imperatif  chez  Eminescu,"  BL,  XV 
(1947),  55-58,  considers  the  poet's  unique  stylistic  creation  of  a 
non-existing  imperative  of  the  third  person  in  Rumanian  with 
the  linguistic  help  of  the  subjunctive  in  order  to  address  absent 
beings : 

"Din  zare  departata  rasar'  un  stol  de  corbi  Sa  'ntunece 

tot  cerul  pe  ochii  mei  cei  orbi"  (Despartire) 

(De    Thorizon    lointain    qu'un    essaim    de    corbeaux 

paraisse 

Afin    qu'il    obscurcisse    tout    le    ciel    sur    mes    yeux 

aveugles) 

J.     Stylistic  Forms  of  Humor 

We  still  have  to  list  some  studies  which  are  on  the  borderline 
of  style  studies  and  deal  only  with  a  partial  aspect  of  a 
literary  work.  If  the  forms  of  humor  in  an  author  are  not  speci- 
fied, the  question  is  then  whether  or  not  a  discussion  of  his 
humor  is  simply  a  psychological  study.  For  example,  in  VERGILIO 
FERREIRA  — 946 —  Sobre  o  humorismo  de  Eca  de  Queiroz, 
Suplementos  de  "Biblos,"  serie  primeira,  vol.  2  (Coimbra,  1943), 
Ferreira  only  implicitly  analyzes  forms,  namely  the  type  of 
mild  Erasmian  humor  in  Queiroz  (contrast  of  romantic  con- 
cepts with  crude  realism,  of  the  familiar  with  the  solemn,  of 
funny  digressions  at  the  moment  of  a  sentimental  climax,  etc.) 
in  contradistinction  to  the  bitter  and  sarcastic  forms  appearing 
in  the  works  of  Camillo  and  Fialho.  But  we  certainly  remain 
on  this  side  of  the  stylistic  fence  when  the  different  forms  of  ex- 
pression in  the  field  of  humor  are  coordinated  with  the  humorous 


947-954  Stylistic  Forms  of  Humor  167 

subjects,  as  is  the  case  with  H.  KNOBLAUCH  —947—  Witz- 
gegenstdnde  und  Witzformen  in  der  erzahlenden  Prosa  Voltaires, 
Diss.,  Koln,  1937.  We  are  in  the  heart  of  stylistic  matters  when- 
ever the  humorous  artistic  function  even  of  the  most  prosaic  and 
technical  problems  in  a  literary  product  is  at  issue.  J.  ANN- 
WEILER  — 948 —  Die  stilistische  Funktion  der  medizinischen 
und  naturwissenschaftlichen  Ausdrilcke  in  Flauberts  Madame 
Bovary,  Diss.,  Heidelberg,  1934,  explains,  for  instance,  that  all 
the  medical  terms  have  the  comic  effect  of  overwhelming  Charles 
Bovary  when  he  reads  them,  or  of  confusing  him  when  he  pro- 
nounces them,  and  are  consequently  a  first  class  element  for  the 
humorous  characterization  of  his  timidity  and  narrow  wit. 

Alfred  G.  ENGSTROM  —949—  "Flaubert's  Correspondence 
and  the  Ironic  and  Symbolic  Structure  of  Mme  Bovary,"  SP, 
XLVI  (1949),  470-495,  has  practically  continued  D.  L.  Demor- 
est's  symbol-study  of  Flaubert  (no.  825)  and  given  the  exact 
proof  in  most  refined  fashion  and  stylistic  method,  that  "a  mesh- 
work  of  irony  .  .  .  permeates  all  the  major  themes  and  enters 
into  the  relation  between  innumerable  minor  details"  (p.  480), 
down  to  the  names — a  decisive,  new  and  profound  interpretation 
of  the  famous  novel.  A  study  on  humor  in  connection  with  lan- 
guage exists  also  for  Marcel  Proust:  Louis  EMlE  — -950 — 
Langage  et  humour  chez  Marcel  Proust  (Paris:  Le  Rouge  et  le 
Noir,  1931).  It  exists  in  the  Spanish  field  for  Espronceda: 
Angela  HaMEL  — 951 —  "Der  Humor  bei  Jose  de  Espronceda," 
ZRP,  XLI  (1921)  389-407  and  648-677.  Thus  in  studies  on 
humor,  the  stylistic  value  can  lie  only  in  the  discovery  of  its 
function  in  the  whole  of  a  work  of  art.  Unfortunately  such  an 
attempt  has  never  been  made  e.g.  for  the  Don  Quijote.  A. 
SCARPA  — 952 —  Uumorismo  nei  Promessi  Sposi  (Torino: 
Bocca,  1932),  tries  unconvincingly  to  make  humor  the  very  prin- 
ciple on  which  this  novel  was  built.  He  was  followed  in  this 
attempt  by  Franco  MEREGALLI  — 953 —  Uumorismo  nella 
formazione  de  "I  promessi  sposi"  (Monza:  Tipografica  Sociale, 
1937),  who  bases  the  humoristic  style  on  episodes  like  the  invi- 
tation at  Don  Rodrigo's,  or  Renzo  in  the  inn,  and  on  characters 
like  Don  Abbondio  or  Don  Ferrante.  A  remarkable  though 
short  study  on  humor  is  L.  SPITZER  —954—  "The  Farcical  Ele- 
ments in  Inferno,  Cantos  XXI-XXIII,"  MLN  (1944),  83-88. 

If  the  studies  on  humor  were  truly  "ergocentric,"  they  would 
further  the  stylistic  insights,  as  do  in  a  limited  field  the  analyses 


168  Stylistic  Aspect  in  an  Author  955-957 

of  wordplay.  We  have  at  least  two  of  these  studies  on  a  re- 
spectable level,  and  they  concern  the  classics  of  Spain  and  Por- 
tugal: Ames  Haven  CORLEY  — 955 —  Wordplay  in  the  Don 
Quixote,  Diss.  Yale,  1914,  and  RH,  XI  (1917),  1  ff.,  and  Provi- 
dencia  SOUSA  COSTA  — 956 —  0  trocadilho  em  Camoes  (Coim- 
bra,  1927). 

Among  the  many  studies  on  the  humor  of  E$a  de  Queiros, 
there  is  still  the  article  of  strictly  stylistic  character  by  Alvaro 
Julio  DA  COSTA  PIMPaO  —957—  "A  expressao  do  'comico' 
na  obra  de  E§a  de  Queir6s.  Ensaio  de  Estetica  literaria,"  Bro- 
teria,  XXXIV  (1942),  249-266. 


CHAPTER  VII 

A  Stylistic  Device  Across  The   Centuries 

The  question  of  how  to  study  a  partial  aspect  of  literary  art 
can  be  put  differently,  namely  by  not  starting  from  a  single 
device  in  a  single  author,  but  by  pursuing  such  a  means  of  ex- 
pression through  at  least  two  or  more  authors,  or  through  one 
literary  genus,  one  literary  epoch,  a  whole  literature,  or  through- 
out several  literatures  at  several  epochs.  In  all  these  cases  the 
interest  is  concentrated  on  the  artistically  changing  use  of  the 
very  same  device  in  different  authors,  different  eras  and  cultural 
surroundings,  as  influenced  by  different  urges,  tendencies,  tem- 
pers, and  pre-occupations.  Monographs  have  indeed  been  written 
on  the  rhythmical,  musical  and  psychological  implications  of 
prose,  of  poetry  and  the  prose  poem,  Curial  and  Attic  prose,  vers 
rapportes,  word-order,  inversion,  repetition,  enumeration,  nega- 
tion, the  so-called  adynaton,  symbolism,  imagery,  allegory,  meta- 
phor, adjective,  epithet,  "kenning,"  landscape  and  portraiture, 
le  style  indirect  libre  and  other  speech  styles  in  general,  nar- 
rative tenses,  moods  and  sentence  construction,  Vinfinitif  de  nar- 
ration, epic  procedures,  gestures,  simple  literary  forms,  legend, 
aphorism,  maxim,  fragment,  glosa,  dramatic  proverbs,  le  mono- 
logue  interieurt  and  again  forms  of  humor. 

A.    Stylistic  Implications  of  Rhythm  and  Musicality 

1.     Prose 

The  studies  on  rhythm  and  melodiousness  have  become  so 
paramount  for  style  investigation  that  they  could  almost  be 
identified  with  stylistics:  L.  TARUSCHIO  —958—  Nuova  stilis- 
tica,  ovvero  dell*  elemento  musicale  in  letteratura  (Macerata, 
1936).  It  seemed,  therefore,  to  be  worth-while  to  the  scholar 
who  had  investigated  the  aesthetics  of  sound  in  Marmontel's 
prose  (no.  783)  to  expand  these  studies  to  other  examples  of 
French  literary  prose,  in  order  to  arrive  at  a  theory;  this  is 
evident  in  K.  KNAUER  —959—  "Die  klangaesthetische  Kritik 
des  Wortkunstwerkes  im  Beispiel  franzosischer  Dichtung,"  DV, 
XV   (1937),  69-91. 

The  interest  in  the  Late  Latin  and  Early  Romance  prose 


170  A  Stylistic  Device  960-966 

rhythm  and  its  history  was  very  well  awakened  by  the  study  of 
Francesco  DI  CAPUA  — 960 —  "II  ritmo  prosaico  in  Petronio," 
GIF,  I  (1948),  37-55.  Here  the  post-classical  cursus  is  already 
stylistically  used  for  expression  and  "mimesis"  of  social  layers, 
moods  and  attitudes  (peasant-behavior,  drunkenness),  thus  in- 
vading the  genus  humile.  This  apparent  "vulgar"  prose  turns 
out  to  be  "il  frutto  d'un  lungo  lavoro  e  di  molte  cure."  FRAN- 
CESCO DI  CAPUA  —961 —  "II  ritmo  prosaico  nelle  lettere  dei 
papi  e  nei  documenti  della  cancelleria  Romana  dal  IV  al  XIV 
secolo,  vol.  I,"  La,  III,  nos.  2-3  (1937),  1-274  is  a  paradigmatic 
inventory  of  the  clausulae  rhytmicae  used  in  the  papal  chancery 
as  a  crossing  of  biblical  quotations  and  Ciceronian  style,  a  ten- 
dency still  prevailing  in  Dante's  prose.  Francesco  DI  CAPUA 
— 962 —  "Lo  stile  della  curia  romana  e  il  'cursus'  nelle  epistole  di 
Pier  della  Vigna  e  nei  documenti  della  cancelleria  sveva,"  GIF,  II 
(1949),  96-116,  is  important  for  the  Dantologist  in  view  of  Pier 
della  Vigna's  style  as  imitated  in  Inferno  XIII.  Preference  went 
to  the  Roman  Curial  prose  rhythm  in  the  Imperial  chancery  of 
Sicily  partly  because  Frederic  II  had  been  a  pupil  of  the  later 
Innocent  III,  partly  because  of  the  personal  skill  and  taste 
of  Pier  della  Vigna.  Actually  in  45  published  documents  dic- 
tated by  the  chancellor  and  containing  283  final  'periods/  212 
end  with  the  ecclesiastical  cursus  velox  versus  65  with  the  cursus 
planus  and  only  4  with  the  cursus  tardus.  Pier  della  Vigna  fur- 
thermore uses  ready-made  biblical-liturgical  expressions.  The 
cursus  velox  prevails  also  in  the  interior  syntactical  groups  of 
his  sentences. 

In  view  of  Dante's  prose  rhythm  and  its  role  in  the  history  of 
the  cursus  in  the  vernacular,  many  cursus  studies  have  been 
undertaken,  e.g.  Francesco  DI  CAPUA  — 963—  "Lo  stile  isi- 
doriano  nella  retorica  medievale  e  in  Dante,"  Scritti  in  onore  de 
F.  Torram  (Napoli,  1922),  or  P.  RAJNA  —964—  "Per  il  cursus 
medievale  e  per  Dante,"  Studi  di  filologia  italiana,  III  (1932), 
84  ff . ;  Raffaele  SPONGANO  — 965 —  Un  capitolo  di  storia  della 
nostra  prosa  d'arte  (Firenze:  Sansoni,  1941),  explains  that 
already  in  the  fifteenth  century  the  modern  type  of  coordinating 
colorful  prose  in  the  vernacular  invades  even  the  Latin  of  the 
humanists  who  used  the  Ciceronian  periodare  only  when  they 
had  nothing  to  say.  The  exception,  Alberti,  combines  the  Italian 
and  Latin  tradition  harmoniously  (see  no.  394).  PAUL  Oskar 
KRISTELLER  —966—  "Origin  and  Development  of  the  Lan- 


967-971  Rhythm  and  Musicality  171 

guage  of  Italian  Prose,"  W,  II  (1946),  50-65,  consciously  deals 
with  a  task  in  which,  he  says,  linguistic  and  literary  historians 
should  join  forces  (p.  65)  because  it  is  a  stylistic  task.  His  new 
approach  to  the  questione  delta  lingua  sketches  the  fight  between 
Tuscan  and  Latin  from  the  thirteenth  to  the  sixteenth  century, 
when  a  common  literary  prose  language  was  created  by  Pietro 
Bembo,  with  his  practice  in  the  Asolani  and  with  his  theory  in 
Prose  delta  volgar  lingua.  It  was  this  non-Tuscan  prose  writer 
who  substituted  for  the  first  time  a  "modified,  standardized  Tus- 
can" for  an  "orthodox,  imitative  Tuscan,"  as  recommended  by 
the  Tre\centisti. 

For  French  prose  rhythm,  the  problems  of  word  order  are  of 
primary  importance,  and  we  may  consider  as  a  starting  point 
for  a  cursus  study  Henri  F.  MULLER  —967—  "On  the  Origin 
of  French  Word  Order,"  RR,  XXX  (1939),  52-63.  A  truly 
scholarly  and  priceless  attempt  for  the  sixteenth  century  is  Rene 
STUREL  —968—  "La  prose  poetique  au  XVIe  siecle,"  ML,  47- 
60.     Sturel  stresses 

limitation  du  style  italo-espagnol,  placant  le  verbe  a  la  fin  de 
la  phrase  apres  les  complements  .  .  .,  la  recherche  des  termes  rares, 
savants  et  caiques  sur  le  latin,  .  .  .  ordre  de  mots  inhabituel, 
tendant  a  rejeter,  a  la  maniere  latine,  le  determine  apres  le  de- 
terminant, et,  en  particulier,  le  verbe,  qu'il  soit  au  participe  passe, 
a  Pinfinitif  ou  meme  a  un  mode  personnel,  apres  son  ou  ses 
regimes. 

Morris  W.  CROLL  —969—  "  'Attic  Prose'  in  the  Seventeenth 
Century,"  SP,  XVIII  (1921),  79-128,  considers  the  non-Ciceroni- 
an style  in  Lipsius,  Montaigne  and  Bacon — called  for  its  elegance 
"Attic" — as  "a  style  conformed  to  the  conversational  customs  of 
a  well-trained  and  sophisticated  society"  (see  no.  1177). 

Throughout  French  literature  there  are  authors  with  a  pro- 
pensity for  short  sentences  (coupes),  and  others  with  a  ten- 
dency to  the  prose  nombreuse  (rhythm).  They  are  reviewed  by 
H.  BREMOND  — 970 —  Les  deux  musiques  de  la  prose  (Paris : 
Le  Divan,  1924).  The  prose  rhythm  for  the  earlier  centuries 
has  the  best  chance  to  be  studied  in  connection  with  word  order, 
for  which  there  are  besides  Henri  F.  Muller  (no.  967),  some 
good  initial  studies  by  Foulet,  Lerch  and  Torsten  Franzen  based 
on  syntactical  principles.  A  more  stylistic  study  for  modern 
times  is  offered  by  A.  BLINKENBERG  —971—  Uordre  des 
mots  en  frangais,  2  vols.  (K0benhavn:  H0st,  1928-1933).     The 


172  A  Stylistic  Device  972-977 

modern  French  prose  rhythm,  so  different  from  the  older  one, 
is  influenced  by  the  nominal  constructions  which  have  outdone 
the  verbal.  This  was  first  observed  by  Otto  W.  HACHTMANN 
— 972 —  Die  Vorherrschaft  substantivischer  Konstruktionen  im 
moderruen  franzosis\chen  Prosastil.  Eine  Stilstudie,  ERS,  XII 
(Berlin,  1912).  After  an  interval  of  eighteen  years  the  same 
topic  was  treated  more  thoroughly  by  Alf  LOMBARD  — 973 — 
Les  constructions  nominates  dans  le  frangais  moderne.  Etude 
syntaxique  et  stylistique  (Upsala:  Alquist,  1930).  Word  order 
and  nominal  style  conditioning  rhythm  (or  conditioned  converse- 
ly by  an  urge  for  varied  rhythms?)  have  an  implication  of  a 
psychological  order  which  in  the  modern  French  novel  appears 
as  a  mania  for  impressionism :  "Le  bleu  du  del" ;  "les  chambres 
de  silence  et  d' ombre" ;  "repondre  avec  franchise,"  "il  eut  un  cri," 
"un  ecolier  travailleur."  The  noun  absorbs  the  function  of  ad- 
jective, attribute,  adverb,  verb,  apposition,  epithet,  and  has  be- 
come the  dominating  literary  means  of  effective  expression. 

F.  BOILLOT  — 974 —  Psychologie  de  la  construction  de  la 
phrase  frangaise  moderne  (Paris:  Presses  universitaires,  1930), 
illustrates  a  similar  problem,  starting  from  the  meaning.  Final- 
ly, modern  prose  rhythm  is  a  compromise  of  the  older  cursus, 
still  "pure"  in  Bossuet,  and  the  emotional  poetic  vibration,  start- 
ing with  Fenelon  and  reaching  its  peak  in  Rousseau,  so  that  the 
modern  prose  sentence  and  lyrical  poetry  are  not  mutually  ex- 
clusive, as  may  be  learned  from  Alexis  FRANQOIS  — 975 — 
Les  origines  lyriques  de  la  phrase  moderne.  Etude  sur  la  prose 
cadencee  dans  la  litterature  frangaise  du  dix-huitieme  Steele 
(Paris:  Presses  universitaires,  1929).  He  finds  that  after  des- 
perate attempts  to  break  with  the  alexandrine  by  introducing 
blank  verse  and  new  forms  of  the  prose  nombreuse — visible  in 
many  theoreticians  from  Vaugelas  to  Abbe  Batteux — a  new 
lyrical  prose  was  created  under  the  influence  of  music,  which 
had  a  paramount  impact  on  Buffon,  J.  J.  Rousseau  and  Senan- 
cour. 

The  tendency  to  give  ancestors  to  Baudelaire's  and  Rimbaud's 
poemes  en  prose  induced  V.  CLAYTON  to  investigate  —976 — 
The  Prose  Poem  in  French  Literature  of  the  Eighteenth  Century, 
PIFS  (New  York:  Columbia  University,  1936).  Franz  RAU- 
HUT  looked  into  some  poems  in  prose  of  the  nineteenth  century 
in  his  book  — 977 —  Das  franzosische  Prosagedicht,  HSVKR,  vol. 
II   (1929).     The  danger  of  Rauhut's  samples  lies  in  their  uni- 


978-981  Rhythm  and  Musicality  173 

lateral  interpretation  and  in  the  superevaluation  of  only  one 
aspect  of  works  which  at  times  are  not  sufficiently  typical  as 
poemes  en  prose. 

The  specialist  in  Fenelon's  rhythmical-musical  prose  (no. 
535)  gave  us  a  comprehensive  study  on  poetic  prose  in  general: 
Albert  CHfiREL  — 978 —  La  prose  poetique  frangaise  (Paris: 
L'Artisan  du  livre,  1940).  This  whole  problem  cannot  be  solved 
with  seventeenth  or  eighteenth  century  "extensions/'  nor  with  the 
addition  of  Calvin  or  parts  of  Rabelais.  It  has  to  be  studied  from 
the  beginning.  Of  course,  any  imitation  of  the  Latin  cursus  in 
French,  in  view  of  the  oxytonal  character  of  words  and  sentences 
in  this  latter  language,  is  extremely  difficult  to  grasp  (see  no. 
779). 

In  the  Spanish  field,  a  first  attempt  at  fixing  prose  rhythm 
was  made  by  R.  BRENES-MESeN  —979—  "El  ritmo  de  la 
prosa  espanola,"  H,  XXI  (1938),  47-52.  He  discovered  by 
analyzing  classical  prose  texts  that  the  "normal  rhythm  is  of 
eight  syllables  exactly  as  it  is  in  verse."  The  most  refined  work 
along  the  line  of  an  objective  evaluation  of  the  stylistic  effects 
of  rhythmical-melodious  elements  is  Tomas  NAVARRO  — 9B0 — 
"Fonologia  literaria"  in  his  Estudios  de  Fonologia  Espanola 
(Syracuse:  Univ.  Press,  1946),  pp.  157-210.  Professor  Navarro 
was  able  to  prove  that  in  the  oldest  Spanish  poetical  documents 
the  velar  vowels,  particularly  a,  prevail  as  an  affective  expres- 
sion, while  in  prose  documents  the  palatal  e  enters  as  a  consider- 
able competitor  of  a.  Navarro  says  that  in  modern  texts  there 
arises  sometimes  the  impression  that  strong  consonantal  clusters 
have  the  male  effect  of  supporting  fleeting  feminine  vowels.  All 
this  looks  like  a  revival  of  the  theories  of  Eduard  Sievers  shifted 
to  the  Spanish  field. 

2.     Poetry 

The  founder  of  the  stylistics  of  metrics  is  Maurice  GRAM- 
MONT.  He  distinguished  numberless  shades  of  verse  scansion 
and  hovering  accentuation,  particularly  in  the  Alexandrine,  ac- 
cording to  the  temper  and  mood  of  the  poets  and  the  actions  and 
attitudes  to  be  expressed.  With  measured  and  controlled  objec- 
tivity he  established  psychological-metrical  verse  types  in  his 
classical,  standard  work  — 981 —  Le  vers  frangais.  Ses  moyens 
d' expression,  son  harmonie  (Paris:  Delagrave,  1913,  4th  ed. 
1937).    Unfortunately,  all  these  delicate  shades  could  not  enter 


174  A  Stylistic  Device  982-988 

the  popularized  version :  M.  GRAMMONT  —982—  Petit  traite 
de  versification  frangaise  (Paris,  2nd  ed.  1946).  It  is  astonish- 
ing that  this  popularization  was  made  better  by  another  than 
Grammont  himself,  namely  Theophil  SPOERRI  — 983 —  Fran- 
zosische  Metrik  (Munchen:  Hueber,  1929).  Spoerri  added  many 
a  fine  remark  of  his  own  and  appended  to  his  stylistic  prosody  a 
most  original  little  treatise  on  prose  numerus.  Grammont' s  clas- 
sical type  of  stylistic  approach  to  metrics  has  had  another  echo 
in  a  Portuguese  work :  Joao  DA  SILVA  CORREIA  —984—  A 
rima  e  a  sua  acgdo  linguistica  e  ideologica  (Lisbon,  1930). 

In  France  itself,  Grammont  has  definitely  revolutionized  the 
studies  of  versification,  as  may  be  seen  from  FARMONT-LE- 
MERRE  — 985 —  he  vers  frangais.  Versification  et  poetique 
(Paris,  1937).  Rene  DUMESNIL  —986—  "Le  rythme  musical 
et  ses  rapports  avec  le  rythme  des  vers,"  in  his  Le  rythme  musical 
(Paris:  La  Colombe,  1949),  133-143,  gives  some  examples  of 
the  importance  of  rhythmical  elements  in  modern  French  poetry 
and  prose  with  its  "latentes  sermonis  percussiones  et  quasi 
aliqui  pedes"  (Quintilian,  Orat.  IX). 

Alberto  DEL  MONTE  — 987 —  "Introduzione  all'  ermetismo 
medievale,"  PP,  III  (1948),  20-47,  explains  the  trobar  clus  of  the 
troubadours  as  the  normal  development  of  an  artificial  style 
which  was  not  unknown  to  the  Greek  (see  C.  Del  Grande,  Poesia 
ermetipa  nella  Grecia  antica,  Naples,  1939),  and  which  was 
bound  to  develop  into  stronger  forms  even  in  prose.  The  post- 
Ciceronian  ideal  of  brevitas  fostered  sententious  obscurity  since 
the  thought  could  not  be  contained  in  the  manneristic  limits  pre- 
scribed. Apuleius  and  Tertullian  paved  the  way  for  the  authors 
writing  in  Middle  Latin,  who  later  were  followed  by  the  trou- 
badours. The  theory  can  be  found  in  the  Summa  dictaminis  of 
Guido  Fava.  Geoffrey  of  Vinsauf  has  coined  the  term  transump- 
tio  for  mixed  metaphorical  analogies,  which  are  identical  with 
the  trobar  clus. 

There  is  the  particular  device  of  separating  all  the  subjects 
from  their  respective  predicates  and  having  them  appear  in 
different  poetic  lines.  This  results  most  often  in  a  series  of 
substantives  and  verbs  asyndetically  linked.  A  competent  treat- 
ment of  this  problem  can  be  found  in  the  revolutionary  study  of 
B.  BERGER  —988—  Vers  rapportes.  Ein  Beitrag  zur  Stil- 
geschichte  der  franzosischen  Renaissancedichtung ,  Diss.,  Frei- 
burg, 1930.     Following  Berger  closely,  one  of  the  masters  of 


989-996  Repetition,  Enumeration,  etc.  175 

modern  stylistics  in  Spain  has  developed  this  first  attempt  to 
finding  fantastic  variations :  Damaso  ALONSO  — "989 —  "Versos 
plurimembres  y  poemas  correlativos :  capitulo  para  la  estilistica 
del  Siglo  de  Oro,"  RBAM,  XIII  (1944),  90-191,  and  —990— 
"Versos  correlativos  y  Retorica  traditional,"  RFE,  XXVIII 
(1944),  139-153.  Eager  to  find  the  sources  for  the  vers  rap- 
portes,  Damaso  Alonso  included  post-Petrarchan  Italy  in  his 
studies  and  analyzed  also  — 991 —  "La  correlation  poetica  en 
Campanella,,,  RIE,  VII  (1949),  223-228.  A  book  to  appear  soon 
will  comprise  all  of  these  studies,  and  expand  them  still  further 
to  an  inquiry  into  the  poetic  correlation  as  an  aspect  of  Petrar- 
chism  (see  no.  1572). 

B.     Stylistic  Repetition,  Enumeration, 
Negation  and  Adynaton 

A  survey  of  stylistic  repetition  in  French  literature  through- 
out five  centuries  was  given  by  F.  BOILLOT  — 992 —  "De  la  repeti- 
tion dans  le  style,"  FQ,  XII  (1930) ,  7-41.  The  heaping  up  of  sub- 
stantives, adjectives  and  verbs  certainly  has  different  meaning  for 
the  medieval,  the  Renaissance,  the  baroque  and  the  contemporary 
poet.  To  find  out  the  exact  psychological  meaning  of  enumera- 
tion in  the  different  epochs  reaching  from  a  providential  diffu- 
sion of  the  Divine  down  to  chaotic  senselessness  of  a  disintegrat- 
ing world  has  been  the  concern  of  Leo  SPITZER  — 993 —  La 
enumeration  caotica  en  la  poesia  moderna  (Buenos  Aires:  Insti- 
tuto  de  Filologia,  1945,  CEE  Anejo  1) .  The  same  problem  is  dis- 
cussed by  Ernst  Robert  CURTIUS  in  —994—  "Mittelalterlicher 
und  barocker  Dichtungsstil,"  MP,  XXXVIII  (1940-41),  325-333, 
where  the  chaotic  enumeration,  called  by  Curtius  "Summations- 
schema,"  is  exemplified  with  Calderon,  but  traced  back  to  Lope, 
Panfilo  Sasso,  Walafrid  Strabo,  Tiberianus  (time  of  Constan- 
tine)  and  even  Classical  Latin,  Greek  and  Oriental  ancestors  who 
were  discovered  by  Walter  KROEHLING  in  — 995 —  Die 
Priamel  (Beispielreihung)  als  Stilmittel  in  der  griechisch-romi- 
schen  Dichtung.  Nebst  einem  Nachwort:  Die  altorientalische 
Priamel  von  Franz  Dornseiff,  Diss.,  Greifswald,  1935. 

The  peculiar  figure  of  speech  called  adynaton — that  is,  an 
impossibility  looking  at  first  glance  like  a  possibility  (to  post- 
pone something  ad  kalendas  Graecas)—  interested  Oskar 
SCHULZ-GORA  —996—  "Das  Adynaton  in  der  altfranzosischen 
und  provenzalischen  Dichtung,"  ASNS,  CLXIV  (1932),  196-209, 


176  A  Stylistic  Device  997-1004 

as  well  as  J.  G.  FUCILLA  —997—  "Petrarchism  and  the  Modern 
Vogue  of  the  Figure  Adynaton,"  ZRP,  LVI  (1936) ,  671  ff.  Finally 

adynaton  attracted  the  interest  of  I.  TESCARI  (but  an 
adynaton  extended  to  structure  and  meaning)  — 998 —  "II  tenia 
dell'adynaton  nell'  'Orlando  Furioso'  e  nella  'Gerusalemme 
liberataV  Conv.  XI  (1939),  684-87. 

C.     Symbolism.     Metaphor.     Allegory.     Epithet. 
Image.     Synaesthesia. 

The  most  comprehensive  study  of  the  symbol  in  the  Middle 
Ages  will  remain  for  a  long  time  despite  its  psychoanalytical- 
philosophical  bias  Helen  Flanders  DUNBAR  — 999 —  Sym- 
bolism in  Medieval  Thought  and  its  Consummation  in  the  Divine 
Comedy  (New  Haven,  1929).  Marion  Elizabeth  CARTER,  on 
a  much  lower  level,  discussed  — 1000 —  The  Role  of  the  Symbol 
in  French  Romantic  Poetry,  Diss.,  The  Catholic  University, 
Washington,  D.  C,  1946,  i.e.  in  Lamartine,  Vigny,  Musset  and 
Hugo,  not  considering  minor  poets. 

Gertrud  BAER  — 1001 —  "Die  Bilder  und  Vergleiche  in  der 
altfranzosischen  und  altitalienischen  Lyrik  des  XII.  und  XIII. 
Jahrhunderts"  in  her  Zur  sprachlichen  Einwirkung  der  altpro- 
venzalischen  Troubadourdichtung  auf  die  Kunstsprache  der 
frilhen  italienischen  Lyriker,  Diss.  Zurich,  1939,  77-165,  stresses 
the  difference  between  the  French  merely  literary  imitation  and 
the  Italian  fusing  of  the  Provencal  literary  similes  with  new  ones 
based  on  observed  details  of  life. 

Metaphor  studies  comprising  whole  periods  move  along  the 
dividing  line  of  literature  and  language,  as  is  the  case  with  Ed- 
MOND  HUGUET  — 1002 —  he  langage  figure  au  XVIe  siecle 
(Paris:  Hachette,  1933).  Stressing  the  metaphor  as  typical  for 
the  post-romantic  and  present  period,  a  Swiss  scholar  used  a  new 
method  to  develop  the  different  implications  of  the  image:  Marc 
EIGELDINGER  — 1003 —  he  dynamisme  de  Vimage  dans  la 
poesie  frangaise  (Neuchatel:  La  Baconniere,  1943)  :  The  Baude- 
laire school,  triumphant  today  in  Supervielle,  La  Tour  du  Pin, 
and  Pierre  Emmanuel,  has  better  understood  the  perceptional 
quality  of  the  symbolic  image  than  the  esoteric  school  from  Mai- 
larme  to  Valery. 

Laurence  LeSAGE  — 1004 —  "Transformations  of  an  Image : 
Sheep,  Fleece,  Brambles,"  RR,  XXXIV  (1943),  295-303,  has 
traced  these  metaphorical  elements  from  Chateaubriand  to  Girau- 


1005-1010  Symbolism.  Metaphor,  etc.  177 

doux.  Ernst  Robert  CURTIUS  —1005—  "Schrift-und  Buch- 
metaphorik  in  der  Weltliteratur,"  DV,  XX  (1943)  359-411,  or 
"Das  Buch  als  Symbol,"  ELLM,  304-351,  has  shown  that 
book,  parchment,  paper,  writing  are  so  close  to  occidental 
tradition  and  erudition  that  they  were  used  as  tertia  com,para- 
tionis  and  metaphors  even  for  feminine  beauty.  Curtius  was 
able  to  follow  the  symbols  of  book  and  writing  throughout  all 
important  literatures,  thanks  to  such  recent  studies  in  the  clas- 
sical, Oriental  and  Spanish  field  as  Jean  Dumortier,  Les 
images  dans  la  poesie  d'Eschyle  (1935),  K.  Pauer,  Die  Bilder- 
sprache  Nizamis  (1927) ,  and  Irmhild  Schulte,  Buch-  und  Schrift- 
wesen  in  Calderons  weltlichem  Theater,  Diss.  Bonn,  1938.  Cur- 
tius' knowledge  of  medieval  texts  and  their  metaphorical  link  to 
modern  times,  and  his  distinction  between  religious  and  mere 
literary  implications  are  well  elaborated  factors  in  this  interesting 
study.  Helmut  HATZFELD  —1006—  "El  estilo  nacional  en 
los  similes  de  los  misticos  espanoles  y  franceses,"  NRFH,  I 
(1947),  43-77,  has  seen  how  some  shades  in  the  common  tradition 
of  mystical  similes  may  well  be  used  as  material  for  a 
national  psychology  through  a  comparative  study  of  aes- 
thetical  taste  and  religious  tendencies  forming  an  inseparable 
unity.  Harry  Vincent  WANN  — 1007 —  The  Tradition  of  the 
Homeric  Simile  in  18th  Century  French  Poetry  (Terre  Haute: 
Indiana  State  Teachers  College  Press,  1931),  has  followed  the 
transformation  of  the  Epic  simile  by  neo-classical  taste.  Typi- 
cally formal  and  manneristic  metaphors  like  hydropicus  for 
"stilted"  and  cytharistae  veris  for  "birds"  in  the  Romanic  litera- 
tures were  enumerated  and  explained  from  their  Latin  sources 
by  E.  R.  CURTIUS  —1008—  ELLM,  275-303  in  his  chapter 
"Manierismus." 

The  difference  between  an  Old  Norse  Kenning  which  calls,  for 
example,  a  ship  a  horse  of  the  waves  by  means  of  a  riddle,  and 
Calder6n's  intellectualized  designation  of  a  singing  bird  as 
citara  de  plumas  by  way  of  ornamentation,  was  earlier  made 
clear  by  Leo  SPITZER  —1009—  "Kenning  und  Calder6ns  Be- 
griffsspielerei,"  ZRP,  LVI   (1936),  100-102. 

As  far  as  allegory  is  concerned,  Mario  PRAZ  has  expanded 
his  earlier  — 1010 —  Studi  sul  concettismo  (1934)  to  a  fine  com- 
parative emblem  study :  Studies  in  Seventeenth  Century  Imagery 
(New  York:  Warburg  Institute,  1939).  This  book,  however,  is 
only  of  secondary  interest  to  literature.    On  a  much  larger  and 


178  A  Stylistic  Device  1011-1014 

exclusively  literary  scale  is  Clive  S.  LEWIS'  outstanding  work 
— 1011 —  The  Allegory  of  Love.  A  Study  in  Medieval  Tradition 
(Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1936).  Lewis  explains  allegory  from 
Statius  down  through  Martianus  Capella  to  the  Roman  de  la 
Rose  and  Chaucer  as  something  not  dull  and  didactic,  but  inspir- 
ing, arousing,  lively  and  interesting  metaphysically  as  well  as 
psychologically.  It  is  at  the  end  of  antiquity  that  the  modus 
vivendi  between  monotheism  and  mythology  makes  allegory  im- 
perative. Throughout  the  Middle  Ages  it  remains  a  clumsy  but 
efficient  means  of  conveying  a  refined  psychology  to  the  medieval 
knight  and  lady.  It  is,  for  instance,  a  very  deep  idea  of  Chretien 
de  Troyes  that  when  Yvain  and  Gavain,  the  great  friends,  fight 
one  another  by  mistake  (Yvain  line  6001  ff.),  Hate  leans  out  the 
window  and  Love  hides  skulking  in  a  corner.  Jean  de  Meung, 
misunderstanding  the  great  psychology  behind  the  allegorized 
persons  of  Guillaume  de  Lorris,  probably  spoiled  the  whole 
Roman  de  la  Rose  because  he  did  not  end  it  with  the  victory  of 
Reason  and  a  refutation  of  Love,  according  to  the  plan  of  Guil- 
laume de  Lorris. 

The  miniature  metaphor,  the  epithet,  has  found  particular 
interest  in  different  sectors  of  literature.  Graves  Baxter  ROB- 
ERTS studied  —1012—  The  Epithet  in  Spanish  Poetry  of  the 
Romantic  Period,  UIS,  vol.  5  (1936),  and  Julia  RACINE 
SPICER  clarified  the  role  of  —1013—  The  Epithet  in  the  Par- 
nassian School  of  French  Poetry,  UIS,  vol.  7  (1938) .  According  to 
the  very  positive  appraisal  which  these  two  Romance  epithet 
studies  found  in  E.  K.  MAPES  — 1014 —  "Implications  of  Some 
Recent  Studies  on  Style,"  RLC,  XVIII  (1938),  514-533,  the  epi- 
thet in  France  and  Spain  developed  along  very  similar  lines  until 
the  nineteenth  century.  In  the  medieval  period  of  both  coun- 
tries only  a  few  characteristic  forms  appeared.  Both  languages 
were  under  classical  and  neo-classical  domination  during  ap- 
proximately the  same  periods,  Renaissance  and  Baroque,  and 
developed  very  similar  characteristics,  although  there  is  little 
evidence  of  reciprocal  influence.  With  the  romantic  period, 
however,  comes  a  sharp  divergence.  Hugo,  in  France,  gave  the 
epithet  an  unprecedented  quantitative  importance  and  variety  of 
form.  This  new  trend  was  followed  by  his  successors,  the  Par- 
nassians. During  the  romantic  period  in  Spain,  on  the  other 
hand,  there  was  no  development  analogous  to  that  brought  by 
Hugo.    The  Spanish  poets  preferred  to  rehabilitate,  with  minor 


1015-1021  Landscape  and  Portraiture  179 

changes,  the  epithet  technique  as  it  had  existed  prior  to  Neo- 
Classicism.  In  so  doing  they  perpetuated,  in  effect,  the  classic 
use  of  the  epithet. 

Alfred  G.  ENGSTROM  —1015—  "In  Defense  of  Synes- 
thesia in  Literature,"  PQ,  XXV  (1946),  1-19,  gives  the  historical 
proof  that  a  conscious  synaesthesia  not  only  exists  in  modern 
literatures  previous  to  the  nineteenth  century,  but  that  it  de- 
cidedly has  forerunners  in  Ancient  literatures,  even  in  Homer 
himself,  where  the  wind  is  called  white  (  II.,  XI,  306),  or  in 
Pindar  where  the  silence  is  called  dark. 

-     D.     Landscape  and  Portraiture 

With  the  closer  relations  between  literature  and  art  in  con- 
temporary scholarly  investigations,  the  general  topic  of  nature 
has  been  narrowed  down  to  the  problem  of  landscape  and  its 
rendering — not  only  in  single  authors,  as  seen  in  Chapter  VI, 
but  in  general.  It  was  almost  a  new  idea  of  Eduard  von  JAN 
—1016 —  to  write  a  little  book  on  Die  Landschaft  des  franzo- 
sischen  Menschen  (Weimar:  Boehlau,  1935),  where  he  shows 
that  the  French  concept  of  nature  and  man  through  the  cen- 
turies was  essentially  the  same  in  the  mind  of  the  painters  and 
the  literati,  with  only  occidental  epochal  variations. 

Rosa  SEELEMAN,  —1017—  "The  Treatment  of  Landscape 
in  the  Novelists  of  the  'Generation  of  18987'  HR,  IV  (1936), 
226-238,  finds  in  the  landscapes  of  Baroja  no  subtlety,  but  only 
clarity;  in  those  of  Valle  Inclan,  emotion  and  visible  love  for 
rural  Galicia;  in  those  of  Azorin  the  features  of  a  symbolical 
paisajista.  That  this  generation  has  only  a  restricted  group  of 
style  features  in  common  as  far  as  landscape  description  is  con- 
cerned (e.g.  colors)  is  seen  also  in  Hans  JESCHKE,  — 1018 — 
Die  Generation  von  1898  in  Spanien  (Halle:  Niemeyer,  1934) 
(see  no.  1209). 

The  Spanish  periodicals  Revista  Nacional  de  Educacion  and 
Revista  de  Ideas  esteticas  between  the  years  1941  and  1944  en- 
couraged landscape  studies,  some  of  which  we  owe  to  well  known 
literary  historians  and  critics.  The  titles  of  some  of  them  are : 
Joaquin  DE  ENTRAMBASAGUAS,  —1019—  "El  paisaje  ima- 
ginado,"  RNE  (Nov.  1941)  ;  Francisco  DE  COSSfO,  —1020— 
"El  paisaje  en  Castilla,"  RNE  (May,  1943) ;  Francisco  MAL- 
DONADO,  —1021—  "Paisaje  nocturne"  RIEf  V  (1944) ;  and 


180  A  Stylistic  Device  1022-1029 

finally  the  bulky  book  which  takes  its  examples  also  from  clas- 
sical antiquity:  Jos£  MarIa  SANCHEZ  DE  MUNIAIN  —1022— 
Estetica  del  paisaje  natural  (Madrid:  Arbor,  1945). 

The  exotic  Spanish-American  landscape  lends  itself  particu- 
larly to  observation,  description  and  critical  analysis.  Abraham 
ARfAS-LARRETA  — 1023—  "La  naturaleza  y  su  expresion  en 
la  literatura  peruana,"  RHM,  XIV  (1948),  51-90,  studies  in 
poetry  and  prose  the  methods  of  landscape  description  as  far  as 
"costa,  sierra,  selva"  are  reflected  in  the  sensibility  of  well  known 
and  less  known  modern  Peruvian  writers.  H.  D.  DISSELHOFF 
— 1024 —  Die  Lands cha ft  in  der  Mexikanischen  Lyrik,  Halle :  Nie- 
meyer,  1931,  is  a  kind  of  counterpart  to  this  study  on  the  Peruvian 
landscape  (no.  1023) ,  and  finds  a  duplication  in  S.  L.  M.  ROSEN- 
BERG —1025—  "El  paisaje  en  la  lirica  Mejicana,"  BH,  XXXVI 
(1938),  319-339.  Literary  landscapes  are  often  considered  only  a 
result  of  observation.  Ignorance  of  the  fact  that  most  of  them 
are  based  on  traditional  literary  patterns  has  led  to  many  mis- 
interpretations. Therefore  Ernst  Robert  CURTIUS  — 1026— 
"Rhetorische  Naturschilderung  im  Mittelalter,,,  RF,  LVI  (1943) , 
219-256,  or  ELLM,  189-207,  is  a  great  help  against  that  mirage 
of  interpretation  ignoring  the  Ideallandschaft. 

What  is  true  for  literary  landscape  holds  true  no  less  for 
literary  portraiture.  After  the  treatment  of  the  "collective" 
literary  portrait  in  the  Greek  authors  by  I.  Brans  (1896),  and 
that  in  French  Classicism  by  Artur  FRANZ  — 1027 —  Das 
literarische  Portrait  in  Frankreich  im  Zeitalter  Richelieus  und 
Mazarins  (Leipzig:  Fugmann,  1905),  more  modern  approaches 
were  attempted  by  L.  Haselmayer  with  the  portraiture  in  Chau- 
cer (1938),  by  H.  Vogt  with  portraiture  in  Early  Middle  High 
German  literature  (1934),  and  by  many  students  in  the  French 
field.  Among  these  P.  GANTER  —1028—  Das  literarische  Por- 
trait in  Frankreich  im  17.  Jahrhundert,  ERS,  L  (Berlin,  1939), 
sees  the  decisive  achievement  of  classical  portraiture  in  "the 
presentation  of  the  exterior  and  interior  essence  of  a  person  in 
direct  and  coherent  description"  (p.  15),  so  that  the  moral  fea- 
tures become  clearly  visible. 

More  perspicacious  than  this  Heidelberg  dissertation  is 
Blanchard  W.  BATES  —1029—  Literary  Portraiture  in  the 
Historical  Narrative  of  the  French  Renaissance  (New  York: 
Stechert,  1945).  He  establishes  a  relation  between  the  Renais- 
sance discoveries,  observations  and  accuracy,  and  the  new  por- 


1030-1039  Landscape  and  Portraiture  181 

traiture  which  had  to  overcome  to  a  certain  degree  the  tradi- 
tional patterns  of  rhetorical  abstraction  (Floranges,  Champier). 
Brantome  breaks  this  tradition  entirely.  Masson  adds  psycho- 
logical intuition  to  the  striking  details  of  character  evident  in 
D'Aubigne,  Sully  and  De  Thou.  With  Montaigne  the  self-por- 
trait comes  into  being.  Observation  also  replaced  the  pattern 
descriptions  of  exotic  people  (Arab,  Turc,  Brazilian).  Whereas 
Bates  vindicates  already  for  the  sixteenth  century  some  "ap- 
ports"  for  which  generally  the  seventeenth  was  credited,  it  may 
well  be  found  (see  Huizinga,  The  Waning  of  the  Middle  Ages) 
that  some  merits  in  "modern"  portraiture  may  go  to  Villon,  An- 
toine  de  la  Salle  and  other  ' 'realists' '  of  the  fifteenth  century. 
Bates  had  a  predecessor  for  his  century  in  a  more  limited  field : 
G.  JEKEL  — 1030 —  Die  Schilderung  des  Menschen  bei  den 
franzosischen  Geschichtsschreibem  der  Renaissance  (Wertheim: 
Bechstein,  1929). 

Following  in  the  steps  of  Franz  and  Ganter,  E.  WERNER 
— 1031 —  Das  literarische  Portrdt  in  Frankreich  im  18.  Jahr- 
hundert  (Leipzig:  Stein,  1935)  showed  the  more  soulless  and 
shrewd  descriptions  of  men  during  the  Age  of  Enlightenment, 
whereas  H.  GMELIN  - — 1032 —  Personendarstellung  bei  den 
florentinischen  Geschichtsschreibem  der  Renaissance  (Leipzig: 
BKMR,  vol.  31,  1927),  had  found  a  very  fertile  field  of  idealiz- 
ing descriptions  of  persons  in  Italian  Humanism. 

Feminine  portraiture  was  first  envisaged  by  J.  HOUDOY 
— 1033 —  La  beaute  des  femmes  dans  la  litterature  frangaise  et 
dans  Vart  du  XII e  au  XV I e  siecle  (Paris :  Aubry,  1876) ,  and  was 
continued  by  G.  REYNIER  — 1034, —  II  tipo  estetico  delta  donna 
nel  medio  evo  (Ancona:  Morelli,  1885).  The  older  works  were 
supplemented  by  some  modern  insights  and  clarifications,  for 
Italy  by  A.  BUCK  —1035—  "Das  Bild  der  Frau  in  der  fruhen 
italienischen  Dichtung,"  GRM,  XXVI  (1938),  156-66;  for  Spain 
by  Helmut  HATZFELD  —1036—  "Zur  Frage  der  Schilde- 
rungen  weiblicher  Schonheit  im  spanischen  Renaissanceroman,,, 
GRM,  XIV  (1923),  296-304;  for  France  by  M.  FRAN^ON  — 
1037 —  Notes  sur  Vesthetique  de  la  femme  au  16 e  siecle  (Cam- 
bridge: Harvard  Univ.  Press,  1939).  Otis  H.  GREEN  — 1038 — 
"On  Rojas'  Description  of  Melibea,,,  HR,  XIV  (1946),  254-256, 
warned  against  neglecting  the  literary  patterns  in  such  investi- 
gations. Isidoro  MONTIEL  —1039—  "La  belleza  en  las  mujeres 


182  A  Stylistic  Device  1040-1042 

de  Cervantes,"  BBMP,  XXIII  (1947),  219-226,  overdoes  the 
patterns  and  finds  in  the  marvelous  characterization  of  women 
in  Cervantes  nothing  but  the  traditional  "cabellos  de  oro,  la 
f rente  de  nacar,  las  mejillas  de  rosas,  los  labios  de  corales,  los 
dientes  de  perlas,  el  cuello  de  alabastro"  (p.  226). 

A  particularly  interesting  study  which  shows  how  with  typi- 
cal literary  patterns  Renaissance  authors  made  feminine  por- 
traits "a  clef  aiming  at  particular  ladies,  is  that  of  Werner 
MULERTT  — 1040 —  Literarische  Frauen-Idealbilder  vor  und 
in  der  italienischen  Renaissance  (Hamburg:  Hansischer  Gilden- 
verlag,  HSVKR,  no.  35,  1941).  Mulertt  starts  with  the  concept 
known  to  antiquity  and  to  the  troubadours  of  the  compound  Lady 
(Lucian)  who  has  eyes,  nose,  hair,  mouth,  from  the  one  who 
excells  in  this  or  that  most  exquisitely  shaped  part  of  the  face. 
Following  this  pattern,  Trissino  sketched  Isabella  d'Este-Gon- 
zaga;  Firenzuola  invented  La  Donna  da  Prato,  and  Luigini,  La 
bella  donna  di  San  Martino.  As  for  theory,  there  is  a  hint  at 
Zeuxis'  Helena  in  Firenzuola's  Discorsi  delle  bellezze. 

E.  Speech  Styles  and  Stylistic 
Aspects  of  Narration 

The  twenties  were  filled  with  attempts  at  fixing  the  meaning 
and  origin  of  one  of  the  finest  modern  stylistic  devices,  the  so- 
called  substitutionary  report.  After  earlier  studies  by  Lorck, 
Lerch,  Spitzer,  Kalepky,  Kuttner,  Thibaudet  and  others,  came 
the  comprehensive  book  of  Marguerite  LIPS  — 1041 —  Le  style 
indirect  libre  (Paris:  Payot,  1926).  Chapter  VII  treats  of 
"L'evolution  du  style  indirect  libre  dans  la  litterature  francaise." 
The  author  sketches  creation  and  grammatization  of  this  stylis- 
tic procedure  in  accordance  with  the  tradition  of  the  Geneva 
school  of  Bally.  Combining  the  synchronic  with  the  diachronic 
examination,  she  adduces  a  multitude  of  materials  and  observa- 
tions that  show  the  wealth  of  stylistic  meanings  and  possibilities 
of  this  medium  of  expression  in  isolated  poetic  individualities 
as  well  as  in  the  different  epochs.  It  appears  primarily  in  La 
Fontaine  by  way  of  contrast  with  the  other  Classics,  in  the 
sentimental  authors  of  the  eighteenth  century,  in  Rousseau, 
in  the  Romantics,  and  in  Flaubert. 

The  parallel,  a  more  condensed  study  by  E.  LERCH  — 1042 — 
"Ursprung  und  Bedeutung  der  sogenannten  Erlebten  Rede," 


1043-1044         Speech  Styles  and  Narration  183 

in  his  book  Hauptprobleme  der  franzosischen  Sprache,  vol.  I: 
Allgemeineres  (Braunschweig:  Westermann,  1930),  epitomizes 
the  whole  problem  better  than  Miss  Lips.  Up  to  1930,  the  "style 
indirect  libre"  had  been  the  great  vogue.  It  was  also  investigated 
in  the  realm  of  Spanish  literature  by  Fr.  TODEMANN  —1043— 
"Dieerlebte  Rede  im  Spanischen,"  RF,  XLIV  (1930),  103-184. 
But  the  concentration  on  the  free  indirect  speech  aroused 
curiosity  for  the  stylistic  meaning  of  the  direct  and  the  normal 
indirect  speech,  problems  which  should  have  interested  the 
classical  philologists  a  long  time  before,  in  view,  for  example, 
of  Livy.  But  it  is  a  fact  that  they  only  fall  in  line  now  after  the 
Romance  scholars  have  paved  the  way.  A  real  pioneer  study 
in  this  field  is  W.  GuNTHER  —1044—  Probleme  der  Rededar- 
stellung  (Beiheft  13,  NS,  1928).  Guenther  judges  with  good 
reasons  that  the  artistic  essence  of  the  "erlebte  Rede"  can  only 
be  explored  successfully  in  its  interdependence  with  the  direct 
and  the  indirect  speech  style.  Based  on  an  abundant  wealth  of 
examples  taken  from  the  German,  the  French  and  the  Italian, 
Guenther  attempts  to  prove  that  the  direct  style  in  literature 
is  the  expression  of  mythical  thought  and  poetic  abstraction 
with  mostly  a  stylizing  intent.  It  represents  a  sharp  outlining, 
and  is  indicative  of  an  introverted  artistic  attitude.  Instead, 
indirect  style  is  a  loosing  of  contours  between  narration  and 
dialogue ;  it  is  a  sign  of  greater  intellectualism,  of  a  profound 
consciousness  of  the  ego;  it  is  a  sentimental  projection,  dis- 
charge of  a  dynamic  will,  a  boundless  surrender  to  fiction.  The 
substitutionary  report,  however,  has  many  more  shades.  In  so 
far  as  it  is  a  rupture  of  the  narration,  it  means  tension  between 
what  is  really  said  and  what  is  intentionally  thought.  Thus  it 
becomes  an  expression  of  a  double  vision,  a  symbiosis  of  lyric 
vibration  and  delicate  irony;  it  is  "criticism  and  sentimental 
projection  fused  in  one  act",  a  symbol  of  that  "metaphysical 
irony  that  from  its  high  observatory  embraces  all  terrestrial 
things  and  plunges  into  them  to  spiritualize  them"  (p.  126). 
To  this  definition  is  added  the  interpretation  of  the  origin  of 
this  free  indirect  speech  style.  Gunther  links  it  with  the  spirit 
of  the  Renaissance  since  it  occurs  for  the  first  time  in  Ariosto. 
The  examination  of  examples,  diversely  shaded,  of  different 
later  poets,  the  interrelation  of  the  three  styles  (direct,  indirect 
and  "vivid")  with  the  types  of  narration,  and  with  the  so-called 
DUtheyan  types,  concludes  this  very  serious  investigation.  In 


184  A  Stylistic  Device  1045-1051 

opposition  to  Gunther,  Charles  BALLY  — 1045 —  "Antiphrase 
et  style  indirect  libre,"  in  A  Grammatical  Miscellany  Offered  to 
Otto  Jesperson  (Copenhagen:  Levin  &  Munksgaard,  1930),  331- 
340,  stresses  the  more  objective  character  of  the  substitution- 
ary report  because  its  melody  can  be  checked  with  the  opposite 
one  of  the  subjective-ironical  antiphrase. 

Th.  HEINERMANN  —1046—  "Die  Arten  der  reproduzier- 
ten  Rede,"  FRP,  II  (1931),  has  drawn  attention  to  shades  of 
meaning  as  far  as  the  more  ordinary  types  of  literary  speech 
are  concerned.  Leo  SPITZER  has  studied  direct  speech  as  a 
means  of  characterization  — 1047 —  "Verlebendigende  direkte 
Rede  als  Mittel  der  Charakterisierung,"  VR,  IV  (1939),  65-86. 

The  art  of  story  telling,  studied  in  a  large  and  interesting 
sector,  is  represented  by  Fay  FISHER  — 1048 —  Narrative 
Art  in  Medieval  Romances,  Diss.,  Columbia  Univ.  (Cleveland: 
Western  Reserve  Univ.  Press,  1939).  A  vivid  means  of  only 
vaguely  hinting  at  a  lively  story,  not  telling  it,  however,  is 
the  famous  historical  or  narrative  infinitive.  It  has  been  stud- 
ied comprehensively  by  Alf  LOMBARD  — 1049 —  Uinfinitif 
de  narration  dans  les  langues  romanes  (Upsala:  Almquist, 
1936).  This  author,  it  is  true,  gives  his  inquiry  the  subtitle 
4 'etude  de  syntaxe  historique."  But  studies  in  syntax  by  the 
idealistic  school  belong  rather  eo  ipso  to  style  investigation,  be- 
cause the  syntactic  element  studied  is  conceived  of  as  expression  of 
artistic  will  selected  by  the  author  from  different  other  possi- 
bilities; even  grammaticized  language  thus  can  reveal  literary- 
stylistic  intentions.  Among  the  syntactic  investigations  of 
Eugen  LERCH  who  actually  belongs  to  the  style  investigators, 
his  instructive  work  - — 1050 —  "Das  Imperfect  als  Ausdruck  der 
lebhaften  Vorstellung,,,  ZRP,  XLII  (1922),  311  ff.  and  385  ff., 
or  in  Hauptfragen  der  franzosischen  Sprache,  vol.  I  (Braun- 
schweig, 1930),  concerns  the  tense  problems  in  modern  narra- 
tive art.  The  method  of  Lerch  has  found  an  adept  in  America, 
Anna  Granville  HATCHER  —1051—  "Epic  Patterns  in  Old 
French:  A  Venture  into  Stylistics  via  Syntax,"  W,  II  (1946), 
8-24.  She  singles  out  three  syntactical  patterns  occurring  in  the 
Chansons  de  geste,  namely,  the  differentiated  use  of  the  narra- 
tive tenses:  present,  preterite  and  past;  the  intransitive  and 
the  reflexive  forms  of  verbs,  and  paradoxical  result  clauses. 
All   three,   together   with   other   simple   and   tautological    ex- 


1052-1054         Speech  Styles  and  Narration  185 

pressions,  reveal  that  the  Old  French  epic  distinguishes  between 
a  timeless,  factual,  informative  and  an  embodying,  dynamic, 
qualifying  attitude.  The  latter  leads  to  picturesque  behavior 
and  uses  indiscriminately  present  and  perfect  as  enacting  tenses. 
The  reflexive  construction  is  the  expression  of  an  emotional 
mood  in  story  telling;  the  non-consecutive  result  clause  is  an 
emphatic  means  of  description. 

Very  similar  to  the  approach  of  Miss  Hatcher  is  that  of 
Werner  MATZ  — 1052 —  Der  Vorgang  im  Epos:  Interpreta- 
tionen  zu  Kudrun,  Salman  und  Morolf,  Archamp  und  Chrestiens 
Erec  mil  einer  Abhandlung  iiber  Aspekt  und  Aktionsart  des 
Verbs  im  Aufbau  der  Erzdhlung  (Hamburg:  Hansischer  Gil- 
denverlag,  1947),  with  excellent  remarks  on  the  aoristic  and 
perfective  elements  in  medieval  narration. 

The  modern  style  forms  of  narration  have  become  so  re- 
fined and  complicated  that  their  discussion  is  almost  bound  to 
lead  to  philosophical  insights,  as  is  the  case  with  Joseph 
FRANK  ■ — 1053 —  "Spatial  Form  in  Modern  Literature  espec- 
ially the  Novel,"  SR,  LIII  (1945),  221-40  and  433-56,  reprinted 
in  Criticism,  ed.  Schorer,  Miles  and  McKenzie  (New  York. 
1948),  379-392.  Mr.  Frank  proves  that  all  modern  non-natural- 
istic art  turns  spatial,  due  to  the  preoccupation  of  overcoming 
the  time  element.  The  first  drastic  case  of  this  attempt  in  liter- 
ary history  is  Flaubert's  tableau  of  the  Cornices  agricoles  in 
Mme  Bovary,  where  (against  natural  time)  the  cattle  fair, 
the  activities  of  the  judges  and  the  love  talk  of  Emma  and  her 
lover  Rodolphe  show  simultaneously  different  time  elements  in 
a  spatial  presentation.  The  same  is  attempted  with  virtuosity 
in  James  Joyce's  Dublin,  and  with  consummate  art  and  natural 
expression  by  Marcel  Proust's  continuous  embracing  of  past 
and  present  in  his  great  novel. 

For  deeper  penetration  the  stylistic  devices  in  narrative 
art  have  even  to  be  narrowed  down  to  apparently  very  incon- 
spicuous phenomena,  as  in  Anna  G.  HATCHER  — 1054 —  "Voir 
as  a  Modern  Novelistic  Device,"  PQ,  XXIII  (1944),  354-374. 
These  studies  of  "style  au  microscope"  are  precisely  fertile  and 
highly  desirable  as  concrete  elements  for  a  history  of  style. 
Miss  Hatcher  has  demonstrated  in  masterly  fashion  how  the 
apparently  superfluous  presentation  of  a  person  A  as  seen  by  a 
person  B  is  of  the  greatest  importance  in  the  novel.  This  in- 
direct characterization  was  begun  by  Flaubert,  continued  by 


186  A  Stylistic  Device  1055-1058 

Maupassant  and  brought  to  a  peak  by  Gide,  Mauriac  and  Saint 
Exupery.  This  device  means  that  new  physical  and  moral  as- 
pects of  a  person  are  stressed,  and  that  a  particular  emphasis 
is  thereby  given  to  states  of  impressionability.  Thus  the  modern 
writer  arouses  new  human  perspectives  in  understanding.  Also 
Hans-Ulrich  WESPI  — 1055 —  Die  Geste  als  Ausdrucksform 
und  ihre  Beziehungen  zur  Rede.  Darstellung  anhand  von  Bei- 
spielen  aus  der  franzbsischen  Literatur  zwisvhen  1900  und  1945 
(Bern:  Francke,  1949),  is  a  most  enlightening  study.  It  con- 
cerns collective-traditional  and  individual  gestures,  both  living 
and  stereotyped,  gestures  accompanying  discourse,  underlin- 
ing and  explaining  discourse,  supplementing  and  replacing  dis- 
course. Expressions  for  these  gestures  are  the  following  among 
many  others : 

mettre  son  lorgnon,  cracher  par  terre,  caresser  sa  barbe,  tapo- 
ter  sur  son  ventre,  se  mettre  une  main  sur  la  poitrine,  examiner 
ses  ongles-,  lever  son  crayon,  passer  la  langue  sur  les  dents. 

Wespi  had  few  predecessors  in  this  interesting  field.  While 
studies  on  gestures  in  general  lie  entirely  outside  the  stylistic 
field  and  belong  to  folk-lore,  gestures  as  a  literary  means  were 
treated  at  least  half -stylistically  in  the  following  studies:  C. 
KORVER  — 1056 —  Stendhal  und  der  Ausdruck  der  Gemuts- 
bewegungen  in  seinem  Werk  (Halle:  Niemeyer,  1911);  E. 
LOMMATZSCH  —1057—  System  der  Gebdrden.  Dargestellt 
auf  Grand  der  mittelolterlichen  Literatur  Frankreichs,  Diss. 
Berlin,  1910;  E.  LOMMATZSCH  —1058—  "Trauer  und  Schmerz 
in  der  altfranzosischen  Literatur,"  ZRP,  XLIII  (1923),  20-67. 

There  may  be  mentioned  also  two  studies  of  a  Portuguese 
psychiatrist  which  list  gestures  of  emotion  throughout  the 
Poema  del  Cid,  the  Chanson  de  Roland,  the  romances  and  many 
other  ancient  medieval  works,  with  rich  examples:  Henrique 
de  Vilhena,  A  expressao  corporal  das  emogoes  nas  obras  iniciais 
de  um  desenvolvimento  literario  .  .  .  e  criagoes  literarias  de 
sentido  popular  (Santiago:  El  Eco  Franciscano,  1934),  and 
A  expressao  da  xolera  na  litteratura  (Lisboa:  de  Mendonca, 
1909).  Such  studies  enter  the  stylistic  zone  with  M.  C.  Murias 
de  Freita,  "A  expressao  da  dor  no  Cancioneiro  geral  de  Garcia 
de  Resende,"  Miscelednea  Coelho,  vol.  I  (Lisboa,  1949). 


1059-1064  Literary  Kinds  187 

F.  Literary  Kinds  Treated  Stylistically- 
One  of  the  most  important  books,  and  one  which  came  as 
an  agreeable  surprise  to  the  literary  scholar,  is  Andr£  JOLLES 
— 1059 —  Einfache  Formen:  Legende,  Sage,  Mythe,  Ratsel, 
Spiel,  Kasus,  Memorabile,  Mdrchen,  Witz  (Halle:  Niemeyer, 
1930).  Here  the  skeletons  of  legend,  saga,  myth,  riddle,  play, 
casus,  memorabile,  fairy  tale  and  pun  are  given  as  the  out- 
growth of  eternal  and  primitive  human  attitudes  of  the  spirit. 
The  mental  process  behind  them  is  largely  described;  the  em- 
bryonic forms  are  rather  offered  as  the  barest  style  minimum 
which  later  generations  had  to  drape  and  to  enlarge. 

The  growth  of  the  Legend,  from  a  stylistic  viewpoint,  is  the 
topic  of  a  student  of  Reto  R.  Bezzola,  one  of  the  Zurich  masters 
in  this  type  of  investigation,  namely  JOSEF  MERK  — 1060 — 
Die  literarische  Gestaltung  der  altfranzosischen  Heiligenleben  bis 
Ende  des  12.  Jahrhunderts,  Diss.  Zurich,  1948.  Outstanding  as 
the  literary  treatment  of  the  short  story,  is  E.  AUERBACH 
— 1061 —  Zur  Technik  der  Frilhrenaissancenovelle  in  Italien  und 
Frankreich  (Heidelberg:  Winter,  1921),  worthy  forerunner  of 
his  Mimesis  (no.  88)  by  thirty  years.  Hans  JANNER  —1062— 
"La  glosa  espanola,"  RFE,  XXVII  (1943),  181-232,  gives  a  fine 
stylistic  interpretation  of  the  glosa  as  a  lyrical,  sententious, 
animated  and  intelligent  play  between  the  poet  of  the  estribillo 
and  the  glosser  based  on  an  intimate  dualism  revealed  in  anti- 
theses, stressed  by  rhyme  and  conjunctions,  emphatic  repeti- 
tions, etc.  Often  the  glosser  splits  his  own  comment  in  pros 
and  cons  as  to  the  proposition,  and  ends  rather  in  an  undecided 
question.  Janner  illustrated  this  fundamental  stylistic  pattern 
by  the  historical  empirical  variations  among  which  the  glosa 
burlona  is  top  ranking. 

It  seems  that  only  short  literary  genera  offer  themselves 
as  specimens  which  can  be  stylistically  followed  at  ease  through 
different  authors,  epochs  and  countries.  That  is  the  reason 
why  scholars  have  been  attracted  particularly  by  aphorism. 
Franz  H.  MAUTNER  —1063—  "Der  Aphorismus  als  literar- 
ische Gattung,"  ZAe,  XXVII  (1933),  132-175,  on  a  more  gen- 
eral basis,  stressing  also  the  German  writers,  has  gone  much 
more  deeply  into  the  artistic  secrets  of  La  Rochefoucauld  and 
Vauvenargues  than  Fritz  SCHALK  — 1064 —  "Das  Wesen  des 
franzosischen  Aphorismus,"  NS,  IV  (1933),  130-140,  and  421- 
436.    Schalk,  concentrating  on  the  French  aphorism,  convincing- 


188  A  Stylistic  Device  1065-1067 

ly  shows  how  the  classical  aphorism  which  unites  truth,  beauty, 
clarity  with  digested  but  abridged  thought,  decays  when  it  only 
serves  the  "esprit"  in  an  epigrammatic  and  enigmatic  form 
and  leaves  "infinite"  meaning  to  a  concept  not  completely 
thought  through  by  the  writer  of  the  aphorism.  A  formal  im- 
provement is  the  penetration  of  aphorism  done  by  Arthur 
FINK  — 1065 —  Maxime  und  Fragment.  Grenzmbglichkeiten 
einer  Kunstform  (Munchen:  Hueber,  1934).  Fink  sees  in  La 
Rochefoucauld's  maximes  a  kind  of  trochaic  numerus;  an  in- 
defatigable working  over  the  first  casts  till  the  "baroque"  form 
becomes  pregnant,  precise  and  classic ;  a  form  of  double  predi- 
cate which  gives  the  impression  of  an  ellipse  with  two  focal 
points,  and  with  sometimes  a  tendency  to  surprise  coming  out 
of  unexpected  comparisons.  In  Chamfort,  on  the  other  hand, 
Fink  observes  an  iambic  rhythm  when  he  waxes  emotional;  a 
trochaic  one  only  when  he  remains  cold  and  ironical,  the  latter 
type  fitting  in  with  his  severe  rational  parallelisms  and  his 
nominal  style.  Hermann  U.  ASEMISSEN  —1066—  "Notizen 
liber  den  Aphorismus,"  T,  VII  (1949),  144-161,  admires  as 
its  style  features  an  independent  paradox  which  teaches  the 
reader  through  illusion  that  his  own  insight  is  reproduced.  This 
paradox  is  based  on  two  syntactic  members,  either  of  tension 
or  of  mock-equilibrium.  These  two  members  may  be  developed 
by  comparisons  and  ornamentations  provided  that  the  amplifi- 
cations be  kept  within  the  bounds  of  the  original  structure. 

Clarence  D.  BRENNER  — 1067 —  Le  developpement  du 
proverbe  dramatique  en  France  et  sa  vogue  an  XVIIIe  si&cle. 
Avec  un  proverbe  inedit  de  Carmontelle,  UCP,  vol.  20,  No. 
1,  pp.  1-56  (Berkeley,  1937),  gives  a  good  understanding  of  the 
stylization  of  drawing-room  games  with  proverbs  and  their 
improvised  enactment  into  a  dramatic  kind. 

There  is  one  literary  kind  closely  related  to  the  substitution- 
ary report.  It  is  the  analysis  of  the  continued  thought-speech, 
a  kind  of  soliloquy  interfering  with  an  action  which  for  its 
part  is  constantly  encroaching  on  the  thoughts  of  the  ego-actor 
or  hero.  As  the  practice  of  Valery  Larbaud  has  proved  in  a 
moderate  form,  and  that  of  James  Joyce  in  an  exaggerated 
form,  the  monologue  intirieur,  visible  already  in  Marivaux, 
has  actually  developed  from  a  stylistic  device  to  a  literary 
kind  since  Edouard  Dujardin,  Les  lauriers  sont  coupes  (1888). 
It  was  well  that  its  old  inventor  also  wrote  its  theory,  history 


1068-1072  Forms  of  Humor  189 

and  meaning:  Edouard  DUJARDIN  — 1068 —  Le  monologue 
interieur.  Son  apparition,  ses  origines,  sa  place  .  .  .  dans  le  roman 
contemporain  (Paris:  Messein,  1931).  The  particular  means  of 
transition  from  the  soliloquy  to  the  interior  monologue  was 
studied  by  G.  GOUGENHEIM  —1069—  "Du  discours  soli- 
taire au  monologue  interieur,"  FM,  XV  (1947),  242-248. 

Finally  there  is  a  study  on  the  literary  riddle:  Michele  de 
FILIPIS  — 1070—  The  Literary  Riddle  in  Italy  to  the  End  of 
the  Sixteenth  Century  (Berkeley:  UCP,  XXXIV,  1948). 

G.  Forms  of  Humor 

An  attempt  to  fix  the  forms  of  Spanish  humor  not  only 
in  one  author  (as  did  Angela  Hamel  for  Espronceda,  see  no.  951) , 
but  throughout  a  whole  modern  literary  genus,  was  made  by  R. 
ROMEU  — 1071 —  "Les  divers  aspects  de  Thumour  dans  le 
roman  espagnol  moderne,,,  BH,  XLVII-XLVIII  (1945-46),  97- 
146,  340-364  and  XLIX  (1947),  48-83.  This  study  is  remarkable 
because,  starting  from  text  interpretations,  it  arrives  at  exact 
formulas  of  what  the  humoristic  procedure  means.  It  may  only 
consist  in  the  choice  of  purposely  inadequate  metaphors.  Thus 
Romeu  speaks  about  the  humor  appearing  in  Pepita  Jimenez 
(Valera)  as  of  "Le  scepticisme  railleur  d'un  aristocrate  anda- 
lou" ;  about  its  coming  to  the  fore  in  La  Hermana  San  Sulpicio 
(Palacio  Valdes)  as  "L'humour  souriant  et  bonhommie  d'un 
bourgeois  sentimental" ;  and  in  Paradox  Rey  (Baroja)  as  "La 
'carcajada'  amere  d'un  anarchiste  en  robe  de  chambre." 

Humor  was  also  the  informing  element  of  a  work  which 
was  mentioned  already  as  inaugurating  modern  Romance  style 
investigation  forty  years  ago.  This  work,  unsurpassed  in  fresh- 
ness and  rich  results,  is  Leo  SPITZER  —1072—  Die  Wortbil- 
dung  als  stilistisches  Mittel  exemplifiziert  an  Rabelais.  Nebst 
einem  Anhang  uber  die  Wortbildung  bei  Balzac  in  seinen  Contes 
drolatiques  (Halle:  Niemeyer,  1910)  (also  no.  814);  it  com- 
prises two  authors,  the  one  imitating  the  other.  Here  is  clear 
evidence  of  how  exuberantly  grotesque  the  outcome  of  a  gen- 
uine humor  like  Rabelais'  can  be:  in  endings,  mammoth  words, 
mixtures  of  Greek  and  Latin  stems,  shadings  of  suffixes — all 
presented  in  series  and  clusters.  On  the  other  hand  the  pure 
imitation  of  the  Rabelaisian  procedure  in  Honore  de  Balzac 
proves  academic,  non-spontaneous  and  heavy. 


CHAPTER  VIII 

Stylistic  Motif 

A  stylistic  motif -study  deals  with  a  thematological  subject 
treated  from  an  artistic  viewpoint.  It  is  the  study  of  a  topic  or 
even  a  topos  in  which  the  form  of  expression  is  stressed.  We 
owe  many  topos-studies  to  E.  R.  Curtius,  which  are  mostly  col- 
lected in  his  book,  ELLM.  A  recent  one,  Ernst  Robert  CUR- 
TIUS —1073—  "Antike  Pathosformeln  in  der  Literatur  des  Mit- 
telalters,"  EMP,  vol.  I,  257-263,  studies  motifs  like  "passing  over 
the  corpse  of  a  person,"  "being  objurgated  by  the  breasts  of 
one's  mother,"  etc.,  which  the  Middle  Ages  inherited  from  clas- 
sical antiquity.  Lucanus  is  the  best  source  for  such  pathetic 
expression.  There  are  two  valid  criteria  for  a  motif  study  versus 
a  mere  theme  study:  first,  the  expression  form  is  symbolical; 
second,  the  expression  form  is  a  leitmotivistic  recurrence  of  the 
theme  in  synonymical  paraphrases.  The  symbolic  form  will  pre- 
vail if  the  motif  goes  through  different  authors,  a  whole  period, 
or  a  whole  literature,  The  leitmotif  type  usually  is  bound  to  a 
single  work.  In  the  following  survey,  these  forms  and  occur- 
rences in  whole  literatures  and  single  works  will  not  be  separat- 
ed. Nor  shall  we  single  out  the  different  Romance  literatures. 
The  logical  subdivision  comes  from  the  motif-themes. 

The  experience  in  motif-investigations  is  that  these  inquiries 
cannot  be  made  in  wholesale  form.  This  was  learned  by  Gerhard 
LEPIORZ  — 1074 —  Themen  und  Ausdrucksformen  des  span- 
ischen  Symbolismus,  Diss.,  Tubingen,  1938,  where  by  "themes" 
he  awkwardly  understands  gallicismo,  casticismo,  mondonovismo 
and  universalismo ;  and  by  expression  forms,  color  shades,  musi- 
cal shades,  smelling  shades,  expressions  of  popular  affectation, 
like  the  narration  formula  Una  vez  erase  que  se  era.  One  may 
say  that  only  strictly  limited  topics  had  a  chance  of  stylistic 
treatment:  water,  sea,  rustic  idyll,  personality,  existence,  ani- 
mals, objects,  enjoyment  of  life,  religion,  travel,  leave-taking,, 
etc.  The  scholarly  branch  which  has  to  direct  the  style  investi- 
gator along  these  lines  is  certainly  folklore.  Folklore  dealing 
with  the  many  traditional  motifs  often  flows  spontaneously  into 
stylistics. 


1073-1081  Mythological  Motifs  191 

A.    Mythological  Motifs 

Mythological  Motifs,  either  in  their  folkloric  drift  or  in  their 
learned  repristination,  may  concern  formulas  for  telling  a 
fairy  tale  or  may  concern  symbolic  mythological-historical  fig- 
ures, events  or  places:  the  Nymphs,  Cupid  and  Psyche,  Prome- 
theus, Empedocles,  Pandora,  Europa,  Orpheus,  Ulysses,  Hylas, 
Narcissus,  Fortuna,  The  Golden  Age,  Arcadia. 

Elisabeth  KOECHLIN  — 1075 —  Weseyiszuge  des  deutschen 
und  des  franzosischen  Volksmdrchens.  Eine  vergleirfiende  Studie 
zum  Marchentypus  von  'Amor  und  Psyche*  und  zum  'Tierbrauti- 
gam,'  Diss.,  Basel,  1945,  has  shown  very  well  how  a  given  arche- 
typical concept  can  take  on  different  stylistic  shapes. 

Modern  psychoanalysis  and  myth-elucidation  often  contain 
elements  directly  available  for  stylistic  purposes,  e.g.  the  nymph- 
myth  could  be  developed  as  a  motif  in  Gaston  BACHELARD 
— 1076 —  L'eau  et  les  reves.  Essai  sur  V imagination  de  la  ma- 
tiere  (Paris:  Corti,  1942).  Bachelard,  although  a  psychoanalyst, 
is  entirely  style-minded  like  Baudouin  (no.  828),  but  he  goes 
much  deeper  in  following  the  water  motif  into  the  liquid  sounds 
and  metaphors  of  imaginative  as  well  as  liquid-sonorous  elements 
(glaie,  cloche  engloutie).  His  examples  (Balzac,  Claudel,  Des- 
bordes-Valmore,  Giraudoux,  etc.),  arranged  in  chronological 
order,  would  be  a  skeleton  for  a  motif-history  of  the  nymph 
motif.  In  another  of  his  many  books,  Gaston  BACHELARD 
— 1077 —  La  psychanalyse  du  feu  (Paris:  Gallimard,  1938), 
works  out  the  fire  motif  as  symbol  of  respect  (Prometheus) , 
dream  (Empedocles),  love,  purity,  in  order  to  prepare  "des  in- 
struments pour  une  critique  litteraire  objective  dans  le  sens  le 
plus  precis  du  terme"  (p.  213).  A  third  work  of  his,  concerned 
with  the  transformed  sexual  symbols  (tree,  oak,  root),  treats 
the  motif  of  intimacy  — 1078 —  La  terre  et  les  reveries  du  repos 
(Paris:  Corti,  1948).  A  parallel  study  is  concerned  with  the 
symbols  of  hostility  — 1079 —  La  terre  et  les  reveries  de  la  volonte 
(Paris:  Corti,  1948).  Comparable  to  Bachelard's  studies  is 
Kurt  VON  FRITZ  —1080—  "Pandora,  Prometheus  and  the  Myth 
of  the  Golden  Age,"  ReRe,  I  (1947),  227-260. 

We  are  actually  in  the  literary  stylistic  domain  with  H.  LE- 
MA1TRE  — 1081 —  Essai  sur  le  mythe  de  Psyche  dans  la  Ut- 
terature  frangaise  (Paris:  Imprimerie  Persan-Beaumont,  1948). 
The  author  already  gave  some  material  for  this  study  in  the  in- 
troduction to  his  edition  of  Victor  de  Laprade,  Psyche  (Paris: 


192  Stylistic  Motif  1082-1088 

Droz,  1940).  A.  LOMBARD  —1082—  Un  mythe  dans  la  poesie 
et  dans  Vart,  V enlevement  d' Europe  (Neuchatel:  La  Baconniere, 
1946),  surveys  the  occurrence  of  this  motif  from  Moschus  to 
Henri  de  Regnier.  Pablo  CABANAS  — 1083 —  El  mito  de  Otfeo 
en  la  literatura  espanola  (Madrid:  Consejo  superior,  1948), 
studies  the  stylistic  transpositions  of  this  motif  into  the  bur- 
lesque, religious,  panegyrical  and  the  merely  technical  forms. 

H.  FRIEDRICH  —1084—  "Odysseus  in  der  Holle,"  in  Geistige 
Uberlieferung.  Das  ziveite  Jahrbuch  (Berlin,  1942),  explains 
the  Christian  criticism  of  hybris  given  to  the  antique  motif  of 
daring  in  Dante's  Commedia;  and  Dante's  emotion  with  regard 
to  exploratory  seafaring  opens  new  vistas  onto  this  motif,  since 
there  is  stress  on  the  element  of  adventure  so  attractive  to  the 
Renaissance  despite  the  curiositas  blamed  in  Ulysses. 

P.  MOREAU  —1085—  "Les  trois  Hylas,"  MV,  425-435,  shows 
the  nuances  that  the  motif  of  the  youngster  drawn  to  the  depths 
by  water  nymphs  has  found  in  Ronsard,  Parny  and  Leconte  de 
Lisle;  it  is  practically  a  theme  treated  a  la  Renaissance,  Rococo 
and  Parnasse.  The  Narcissus  myth  was  symbolically  approached 
by  Stephane  Mallarme  and  Stefan  George,  as  shown  by  Werner 
VORDTRIEDE  —1086—  "The  Mirror  as  Symbol  and  Theme  in 
the  Works  of  S.  Mallarme  and  S.  George,"  MLF,  XXXII  (1947), 
13-24.  This  study  considers  the  archetypical  importance  of  the 
symbol.  The  narcissistic  attitude,  characteristic  of  modern 
poets,  is  reflected  in  the  language  of  loneliness;  the  hiding  of 
the  main  symbol  by  blending  it  with  another  (Ennui)  is  re- 
vealed as  typical  (Eau  froide  par  V ennui  dans  ton  cadre  gelee) 
of  the  two  poets  considered. 

The  Ovidian  motif  of  metamorphosis  of  men  into  animals  is 
made  subservient  to  Renaissance  love  poetry,  where  the  lover 
wants  to  be  the  object  or  animal  closest  to  his  beloved.  Thus 
Marcel  FRANQON  —1087—  "Un  motif  de  la  poesie  amoureuse 
au  XVIe  siecle,"  PMLA,  LVI  (1941),  307-36,  is  concerned  with 
the  theme  La  Puce  in  numberless  variations  of  stylistic  value. 
The  famous  concept  of  Fortuna,  often  treated  iconographically 
and  thematolopically,  enters  the  style  domain  with  Ida  WAYS 
— 1088 —  Virtu  und  Fortuna  bei  Boiardo  und  Ariost  (Leipzig: 
Teubner,  1931).  Miss  Ways  also  considers  the  images  for  for- 
tuna (forelock,  wheel,  tempest)  and  examines  the  attitudes  of 
Boiardo  and  Ariosto  towards  this  "goddess."  Boiardo  tries  to 
appease  fortuna;  Ariosto  avoids  crossing  her  path. 


1089-1095  Modern  Nature  Motifs  193 

On  a  larger  scale  the  motif  of  the  Golden  Age  was  treated  by 
E.  LIPSKER  — 1089 —  Der  Mythos  vom  goldenen  Zeitalter  in 
den  Schdferdichtungen  Italiens  und  Frankreichs  zur  Zeit  der 
Renaissance,  Diss.,  Berlin,  1933,  and  by  Bruno  SNELE  — 1090 — 
"Arkadien.  Die  Entdeckung  einer  geistigen  Landschaft,"  Antike 
und  Abendland,  edited  B.  Snell  (Hamburg,  1945),  pp.  26  ff.  How 
this  Arcadian  myth  was  capable  of  poeticizing  Garcilaso  de  la 
Vega's  love  for  Isabel  de  Freyre  was  made  clear,  point  by  point, 
by  Angel  Osvaldo  NESSI  — 1091 —  "La  plastica  del  mito  en 
Garcilaso,"  Hu,  XXI  (1948),  515-526,  a  fine  interpretation  of 
the  third  eclogue.  The  Roman  motif  of  Dea  Natura  is  a  Lucre- 
tian  variation  of  Arcadia.  Ernst  Robert  CURTIUS  — 1092 — 
"Gottin  Natura,"  in  ELLM,  114-135,  follows  this  decisive  motif 
from  Ovid  to  the  Roman  de  la  Rose. 

B.    Modern  Nature  Motifs 

As  classical  antiquity  provided  the  Romance  literatures  with 
mythological  motifs,  the  Germanic  literatures  provided  them 
with  direct  nature  perception.  Therefore  the  more  recent  cen- 
turies offer  as  motifs  rather  the  sea,  the  mountain,  the  town,  and 
more  specific  elements  of  nature. 

While  R.  VALLESE  wrote  a  special  dissertation  on  — 1093 — 
he  theme  de  la  mer  dans  Voeuvre  de  Chateaubriand  (Napoli:  So- 
cieta  Editrice  Dante  Alighieri,  1934),  Diss.,  Besangon,  AUGUSTE 
DUPOUY  offered  a  broad  survey  in  — -1094 —  La  Poesie  de  la 
mer  dans  la  litterature  frangaise  (Paris:  Ariane,  1947).  This 
is  the  best  achievement  until  now  of  a  motif  study  with  stress  on 
poetry  and  language.  It  develops  from  the  medieval  concept  of 
the  sea  as  reminiscent  of  the  danger  of  seafaring  to  the  Renais- 
sance concepts  of  Nymphs,  Tritons  and  Nereides.  The  motif  be- 
comes technical  with  the  observers  Bernardin  de  Saint-Pierre 
from  Le  Havre  and  Chateaubriand  from  Saint-Malo,  expands  to 
the  theme  of  the  invitation  au  voyage,  adieu,  and,  since  the  Par- 
nassians and  the  Symbolists,  to  the  changing  seascapes,  to  re- 
gionalism, folklorism  and  sailor  motifs  in  contemporary  lit- 
erature. E.  GLaSER  — 1095 —  Zur  Geistesgeschichte  des  Meer- 
Sinnbildes  im  franzosischen  Schrifttum,  ZFS,  LXII  (1938), 
74-82,  followed  the  stylistic  change  of  this  motif  through  several 
epochs  endeavoring  to  find  by  deduction  the  archetypical  mean- 
ing of  the  sea  metaphor  as  such.  He  uses  older  dissertations 
which  listed  the  use  of  the  sea  in  different  authors  and  makes  his 


194  Stylistic  Motif  1096-1104 

still  very  scanty  material  develop  into  one  of  the  aims  which  is 
decisive  in  motif  studies : 

Es  konnten  sich  in  der  sprachkiinstlerischen  Behandlung  des 
Meeres  bestimmte  Weisen  des  Wertverhaltens  verschiedenen 
Menschentums  dem  Meer  gegeniiber  auffinden  lassen  (p.  75). 

Antonio  TUDISCO  chose  the  role  of  water  in  literature  as  a 
topic  in  — 1096 —  "El  agua  en  la  poesia  de  Juan  Ram6n  Jimenez," 
RHM,  V  (1939) ,  222-230.  Margot  ARCE  DE  VASQUEZ  studied 
— 1907 —  "Mar,  poeta,  realidad  en  'El  Contemplado'  de  Pedro 
Salinas,"  A,  III  (1947),  90-97. 

The  difference  between  town  life  and  country  life  was  the 
rather  superficial  preoccupation  of  Gerhard  ROEHL  — 1098 — 
Die  idyllisch-landlichen  Motive  in  der  altfranzosischen  Literatur, 
Diss.,  Rostock,  1936.  The  material  for  a  study  of  the  mountain 
motif  in  a  later  epoch  is  found  in  an  anthology  by  C.  E.  ENGEL 
and  Ch.  VALLOT  — 1099 —  Les  ecrivains  de  la  montagne.  I: 
Ces  monts  affreux,  1650-1810  (Paris:  Delagrave,  1934) ;  II:  Ces 
monts  sublimes,  1803-1895  (ib.,  1936).  Theme  collections  of 
this  type  are  offered  in  the  volumes  Les  themes  poStiques  (Gar- 
nier)  and  in  J.  M.  Blecua's  anthologies  (Editorial  Hispanica). 

A  Portuguese,  Agostinho  DE  CAMPOS  — 1100 —  Coimbra 
na  Eufrosina  (Figueira  da  Foz,  1936),  studies  the  aspects  of  a 
town  as  a  motif  reflected  by  the  sensibility  of  a  sixteenth  century 
writer,  J.  F.  de  Vasconcelos.  — 1101 —  "Paris  dans  la  poesie  ro- 
mantique  et  chez  les  precurseurs  du  Parnasse,"  RCC  (June  15, 
1934) ,  has  been  the  motivistic  concern  of  D.  DELAFARGE.  The 
town  motif  in  general  as  reflected  in  the  sensibility  of  Modern 
Man,  found  an  analyser  in  Elisabeth  KDCHLER  — 1102 —  Das 
Stadterlebnis  bei  Verhaeren,  Diss.,  Hamburg,  1930.  Man  and 
woman  are  often  introduced  into  modern  nature  motifs  to  give 
them  an  erotical  atmosphere.  This  element  was  treated  as  a  motif 
by  Rosemarie  BURKART  — 1103—  "Frau  und  Blume  bei 
Proust,"  AR,  XV  (1931),  99-108.  Treating  woman— and  some- 
times also  man — as  a  thing  has  led  to  a  motif  which  truly  could  be 
called  by  Ortega  y  Gasset :  "Deshumanizacion."  It  was  criticized 
by  Hanno  August  STEIN  — 1104 —  Die  Gegenstandswelt  im 
Werke  Flauberts,  Diss.,  Koln,  1938.  Stein's  remarks  are  particu- 
larly keen  and  helpful  when  he  explains  Flaubert's  "deshumaniza- 
cion" by  putting  human  beings  on  the  same  level  with  things  in 
sentences  such  as :  Elle  voyait  les  arbres,  les  chemins,  les  fosses, 
Rodolphe ;  or  replacing  the  brutal  asyndeton  by  an  ironical  "et" : 


1105-1109  Space  and  Time  Motifs  195 

Elle  entendait  le  battement  de  la  pendule,  le  bruit  du  feu,  et 
Charles,  debout  pres  de  sa  couche  qui  respirait.  Stein,  further- 
more, underlines  the  departmentalization  of  the  parts  of  the 
body  as  functional  entities  different  from  personality :  Ses  levres 
s' entre-ouvrent ;  ses  bras  se  lever ent;  sa  tete  se  renversait, 

C.  Space  and  Time  Motifs 

The  style  investigators  have  received  a  clue  from  the  exist- 
entialist philosophers  with  the  problem  of  Time  and  Being. 
Small  wonder  that  they  found  fertile  motifs  in  Space,  Move- 
ment, Time,  making  whole  works  in  their  structure  depend 
on  the  concept  of  this  triad.  Maria  RUCHTI  — 1105 —  Raum 
und  Bewegung  im  'Esprit  des  Lois*.  Versuch  einer  Deutung  des 
Stils  von  Montesquieu,  Diss.,  Zurich:  Affoltern,  1945,  ap- 
proaches this  work  of  Montesquieu  as  conditioned  by  his  specu- 
lation on  world  space  and  cosmos.  Cosmic  movement  is  said 
to  be  a  movement  of  moderation  which  influenced  general  ideas 
and  style  (images,  sentence-types,  retar dement,  inversion).  A 
less  objectionable  view  keeping  closer  to  stylistic  problems  is 
held  by  Ch.  E.  RIETMANN  — 1106 —  Vision  et  mouvement 
chez  Stephane  Mallarme  (Paris:  Les  Presses  modernes,  1933). 
Such  approaches  to  a  style-informing  motif  are  weaker  than 
that  of  Kurt  DOEHNER  —1107—  Zeit  und  Ewigkeit  bei 
Chateaubriand  (Geneve:  BAR,  Serie  I,  vol.  I,  1931).  This 
study  from  the  Spitzerian  school  is  called  "Ein  Beitrag  zur 
Werk-und  Wortforschung,"  because  Time  and  Eternity  are 
found  to  be  idees  mattresses  represented  by  the  central  symbol 
of  the  church  bell.  Chateaubriand  himself  speaks  of  "heures 
comme  semences  de  l'eternite"  (p.  156).  G.  LEDIG  — 1108 — 
"Ewigkeit  und  Zeit  bei  Thomas  von  Aquin  und  bei  Dante," 
DDJ,  XVIII  (1936),  109-147,  studied  exactly  the  same  problem 
in  order  to  explain  better  the  Divina  Commedia  as  a  poem  of 
Eternity  appearing  in  Time. 

Florence  HIER  — 1109 —  La  musique  dans  Voeuvre  de 
Marcel  Proust  (New  York:  Columbia  Univ.,  French  Institute, 
1933) ,  has  found  that  the  motif  of  musique  helps  Proust  to  ex- 
press Time  and  Eternity  with  an  unheard  of  delicacy  by  nuances 
which  were  not  at  the  disposal  of  his  predecessors. 

Decouvrir  la  correspondance  entre  le  chant  repete  dans  une 
octave  au-dessus  en  une  couleur  de  voix  differente   et  le  faite 


196  Stylistic  Motif  11 10-11 17 

de  l'eglise  ensoleille  par  les  derniers  rayons  du  couchant — c'est 
devenir  pour  le  moment,  au  moins,  'l'etre  qui  ne  se  nOurrit  que 
de  Tessence  des  choses'   (p.  56). 

The  motif  of  the  Flight  of  Time  has  received  the  classical 
and  Renaissance  incarnation  of  "Carpe  diem"  and  "Ut  flos  in 
saeptis".  At  least  four  Romance  studies  trace  it  in  France, 
Spain  and  Italy:  L.  P.  THOMAS  —1110—  "Ronsard  et  quel- 
ques  poetes  de  la  'Rose  du  soir',"  RLC,  IV  (1924),  481-494;  F. 
SCHtJRR,  — 1111 —  "Ein  Leitmotiv  der  Renaissance  Lyrik  bei 
Ronsard  und  Malherbe  ('La  rose  fragile'),"  NS,  XL  (June, 
1932),  274-287;  B.  GonzAlez  de  ESCAND6N  —1112—  Los 
iemas  del  'Carpe  diem'  y  la  brevedad  de  la  rosa  en  la  poesia 
espanola  (Barcelona,  1938) ;  and  a  comparative  study 
in  Italian  and  French  Renaissance  literature:  Mme  A.  BEL- 
CINGATEANU  — 1113 —  Carpe  rosam.  Tema  poetica  a  tranda- 
firului  in  literatura  italiand  §i  franceasa  a  Renasterii  (Bucu- 
resti:  Socec,  1931). 

Renaissance  motif  of  a  more  melancholic  mark  is  Solitude. 
P.  E.  CRUMP  —1114—  "The  Theme  of  Solitude.  An  Aspect 
of  the  'sentiment  de  la  nature'  in  the  Seventeenth  Century." 
FQ,  VII  (1925),  158-169,  has  treated  it  on  a  smaller  scale,  but 
has  certainly  proved  that  the  nucleus  of  the  motif  in  Racan, 
Arnauld,  La  Fontaine  and  others  is  the  Horatian  Beatus  ille 
(Epode  II)  and  VirgiPs  O  bona  pastoris.  Karl  VOSSLER 
— 1115 —  La  soledad  en  la  poesia  espanola  (Madrid:  RO,  1941), 
authorizing  this  title  for  the  translation  of  Poesie  der  Einsam- 
keit  in  Spanien  (Munchen:  Beck,  1940),  recognized  by  this 
very  fact  that  he  dealt  on  a  large  scale  with  the  change  of  a 
motif  throughout  some  centuries. 

The  difference  between  motif  studies  with  stress  on  the 
theme  or  on  the  symbol  can  readily  be  seen  from  a  comparison 
of  P.  VAN  TIEGHEM  —1116—  La  Poesie  de  la  nuit  et  des 
tombeaux  en  Europe  au  XV Hie  siecle  (Bruxelles:  Lamertin, 
1921),  with  Wallace  FOWLIE  —1117—  "The  Theme  of  Night 
in  Four  Sonnets  of  Mallarme,"  MP,  XLIV  (1947),  248-258. 
Fowlie  considers  Mallarme's  Night-motif  as  the  poet's  "dark 
night"  into  which  falls  the  light  of  creative  inspiration.  It  is 
paralleled  by  the  substitution  of  motifs  such  as  absence,  im- 
potency  and  artificiality,  emptiness,  absoluteness  and  sterility. 
It  materializes  in  symbolic  synonyms  like  the  horrible  idol 
Anubis,  the  buried  temple,  the  tomb,  stars  fallen  from  the  sky, 


1118-1124  Space  and  Time  Motifs  197 

shallow  water,  poisonous  breath,  vastness,  and  everything 
chaotic  waiting  for  order  from  the  poet.  E.  H.  TEMPLIN 
—1118—  "Night  Scenes  in  Tirso  de  Molina/'  RR,  XLI  (1950), 
261-273,  studies  the  Night-motifs  in  the  technique  of  Tirso's 
dramatic  works  as  a  baroque  phenomenon  and  as  the  quint- 
essence of  Tirso.  I.  GUTIA  —1119—  "Noaptea  bruna  (die 
braune  Nacht,  notte  bruna)  nella  lingua  di  Mihail  Eminescu," 
CN,  IX  (1949) ,  164-173,  is  a  study  showing  how  the  baroque  con- 
cept of  brown  night  starts  in  the  Italian  secentismo  and  invades 
the  German  poets  from  whom  Eminescu  borrowed  it. 

D.    Life  and  Death  Motifs 

Man's  concept  of  life  and  death  investigated  by  L.  RUSU 
— 1120 —  he  sens  de  V existence  dans  la  poesie  popidaire  rou- 
maine  (Paris:  Alcan,  1935)  reveals  the  motif-limits  of  the 
ioikpoetry  as  entirely  dependent  on  Mother  Earth's  produc- 
ing and  devouring.  Earth  as  a  self-sufficient  element  exclud- 
ing a  serious  concept  of  other-worldliness  only  admits  as  accom- 
panying motifs  Solitude  (dor,  urat)  and  Destiny  (resignation). 
Shifting  the  accent  from  the  philosophical  to  the  decidedly 
stylistic  interest,  Anneliese  STAHL  has  classified  and  com- 
pared observation,  description,  and  emotion  lavished  on  the 
death  scenes  in  the  realistic  French  novel  — 1121 —  Die  Schil- 
derung  des  Sterbens  im  franzosischen  Roman  des  19.  Jahrhun- 
derts,  Diss.,  Heidelberg,  1939.  Hildegard  ORTH,  imitating  a 
similar  study  in  German  literature  by  Walter  Rehm,  traces  the 
motif  of  Death  in  French  nineteenth  century  poetry  — 1122 — 
Der  Todesgedanke  in  der  franzosischen  Lyrik  des  19.  Jahrhun- 
derts,  Diss.,  Wurzburg,  1937.  LuciENNE  PORTIER  —1123— 
"Le  theme  de  la  mort  chez  Leopardi,"  RLC,  XVII  (1937),  664- 
679,  reveals  Leopardi's  praise  of  death  as  "un  insatiable  amour 
de  la  vie,  toujours  decu." 

A  full  study  in  style  is  Luis  ROSALES  —1124—  "La  figura- 
cion  y  la  voluntad  de  morir  en  la  poesia  espanola,"  CyR, 
XXXVIII  (1936),  67-98:  from  the  baroque  sensuous  imagery 
around  the  Death-motif  springs  a  non-existing  world  of  un- 
reality; from  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz*  detachment  from  and  death 
to  the  world  springs  the  most  beautiful  poetic  reality,  not  a 


198  Stylistic  Motif  1125-1133 

"substantivacion  de  las  formas,"  but  a  "substantivacion  de  la 
realidad."  Eduardo  JULIA  MARTINEZ  —1125—  "La  serena 
muerte  en  Cervantes,"  BAE,  XXVII  (1947),  201-244,  sur- 
veys the  consistent  Catholic-stoic  attitude  of  Cervantes' 
heroes  confronted  with  death  as  a  motif  and  introduces  Cer- 
vantes' attitude  by  the  history  of  the  concept  of  death  since  the 
Middle  Ages.  A  literary  motif  to  be  studied  on  a  comparative 
basis  was  chosen  by  J.  S.  EGILSRUD  — 1126 —  he  Dialogue 
des  morts  dans  les  litteratures  francaise,  allemande  et  anglaise, 
These,  Paris,  1934.  On  the  other  hand  the  motif  dealt  with  by 
Maria  STICCO  — 1127 —  "Dio  e  la  morte  nelle  prose  e  nelle 
rime  di  V.  Alfieri,"  VP,  VII  (1934),  is  negligible  and  was  called 
by  a  critic  "spigolature  poco  concludenti." 

E.  Holiness  and  Sin  Motifs 

Since  Rudolf  Otto  has  created  the  category  of  the  Holy, 
the  present  writer  thought  that  this  category  would  offer  it- 
self also  as  a  literary  and  stylistic  motif  in  certain  works, 
authors  and  epochs  of  the  Romance  literatures.  He  investigated 
different  literary  phenomena  from  this  viewpoint  and  had  the 
best  results  from  Dante's  Paradiso,  Spanish,  Portuguese  and 
Catalan  Romanticism  and  the  last  works  of  Victor  Hugo.  Thus 
the  following  titles  will  be  selected  from  a  larger  set  of  studies 
on  the  motif  of  the  Holy :  Helmut  HATZFELD  —1128—  "Das 
Heilige  im  dichterischen  Sprachausdruck  des  Paradiso,"  DDJ, 
XII  (1930),  41-70;  —1129—  "La  expresion  de  'Lo  Santo'  en  el 
lenguaje  poetico  del  romanticismo  espaiiol,"  AOR,  II  (1929), 
271-336;  — 1130 —  "La  expresion  de  'Lo  Santo'  en  el  lenguaje 
poetico  de  los  Romanticos  Portugueses  y  catalanes,"  AOR,  III 
(1930),  271-330,  and  IV  (1931),  269-296;  and  —1131—  "Die 
Gottesbezeichnungen  im  poetischen  Altersstil  V.  Hugos,"  NS, 
XXXIX  (1931),  112-124. 

A  similar  idee-maitresse  study,  where  Providence  is  the 
object  of  a  stylistic  motif  investigation,  is  Sister  Georgian  a 
TERSTEEGE  —1132—  Providence  as  Idee-Maitresse  in  the 
Works  of  Bossuet  (Theme  and  Stylistic  Motif),  Diss.,  Catholic 
University,  Washington,  1948  (no.  449).  Given  the  fact  that 
the  Precious  Blood  was  a  vital  motif  in  the  existence  and  writ- 
ings of  Santa  Caterina  da  Siena,  the  following  study  is  a  good 
choice  for  a  motif  analysis:  E.  VALLI  — 1133 —  II  sangue  di 
Cristo  nelV  opera  di  S.  Caterina  da  Siena.  Saggio  estetico  e 


1134-1142  Holiness  and  Sin  Motifs  199 

storico  (Siena:  Bibl.  di  Studi  Cateriniani,  fasc.  2,  1932).  An  al- 
most complete  and  comprehensive  study  on  the  motif  of  holi- 
ness as  expressed  by  the  symbol  of  the  Temple  is  Hans  FLASCHE 
— 1134 —  "Similitudo  Templi  (Zur  Geschichte  einer  Metapher)," 
DV,  XXIII  (1949),  81-125. 

Independently,  the  most  different  types  of  authors  found 
that  Sin  and  Despair  of  Modern  Man  came  out  in  uncanny  mo- 
tifs: Ennui,  Hunt  and  Mask.  The  ennui  motif  has  been  ex- 
plained for  Stendhal,  Musset,  Leconte  de  Lisle  and  Baudelaire: 
by  Dora  BRAUCHLIN  —1135—  Das  Motiv  des  "ennui"  bei 
Stendhal,  Diss.,  Zurich,  1930;  by  A.  STEISS  —1136—  Das 
Motiv  des  Ennui  hei  Alfred  de  Musset,  Diss.,  Wurzburg,  1933; 
by  Marthe  VUILLE  — 1137 —  U expression  de  V ennui  dans  les 
images  de  Leconte  de  Lisle,  Diss.,  Zurich,  1939,  with  the  stylis- 
tic proof  that  Leconte  de  Lisle  "n'est  pas  le  poete  du  calme," 
but  "d'une  rigidite  exterieure  et  fausse,"  veiling  his  inquietude ; 
and  by  Gerda  ANHEGGER,  — 1138 —  Der  spleen  bei  Charles 
Baudelaire,  Diss.,  Zurich,  1937.  Madeleine  M.  SMITH  — 1139 
—  "The  Theme  of  the  Hunt  in  Rimbaud :  'La  chasse  spirituelleY' 
PMLA,  LXIV  (1949),  325-339,  finds  that  this  motif  represents 
the  "broader  theme  of  death  following  a  mortal  wound,"  spread 
over  the  work  of  Rimbaud  as  a  central  obsession  of  the  poet,  a 
fact  which  would  not  be  changed  by  the  proof  that  La  chasse 
spirituelle  itself  was  not  written  by  Rimbaud. 

The  mask  motif  in  Pirandello  was  recognized  and  well  anal- 
yzed by  Ulrich  LEO  —1140—  "Pirandello,  Kunsttheorie  und 
Maskensymbol,"  DV,  XI  (1933),  94-129,  also  as  —1141— 
"Luigi  Pirandello,  Simbolista  de  la  Mascara,"  RNC,  no.  25 
(1941),  128-44,  no.  26  (1941),  57-67,  and  no.  27  (1941),  152- 
69.  Leo  sees  very  clearly  the  double  function  of  the  "maschera" 
as  "Stoff-und  Stilproblem."  Masque  becomes  identical  with  face ; 
as  form  it  is  identified  with  life,  as  the  villa  is  with  theater  and 
life.  A  deep  religious-philosophical  penetration  of  the  masks  of 
life  in  literature  has  been  reached  in  the  second  part  of  the 
book  by  Wallace  FOWLIE  —1142—  The  Clown's  Grail  A 
Study  of  Love  in  its  Literary  Expression  (London:  Dobson, 
1948).  Fowlie  first  follows  the  symbols  for  love  in  philosophy, 
mysticism  and  worldliness  throughout  cycles  such  as  Plotinus, 
Saint  Bernard,  Heloise;  Corneille,  Pascal,  Racine;  Nerval, 
Lautreamont,  Baudelaire,  down  to  the  myths  of  the  moderns 


200  Stylistic  Motif  1143-1149 

and  the  ultramoderns,  Hart  Crane,  Djuna  Barnes  and  T.  S. 
Eliot.  He  is  looking  for  the  masks  which  the  modern  hero  "dons" 
when  confronted  with  love:  Swan,  Narcissus  (Mallarme), 
voyou  (Rimbaud  and  Apollinaire) ,  artist  (Proust  and  Joyce), 
pilot  (Saint  Exupery).  Incapable  of  love,  they  are  puppets  like 
the  straw-stuffed  Petrouchka,  hero-clown  of  the  Russian  artist 
Tchelitchew  in  the  New  York  Museum  of  Modern  Art,  replica 
of  modern  man  whom  "love"  has  changed  into  a  clown,  a  fact 
revealed  also  by  Picasso  and  Rouault. 

Stylistic  motif  studies  on  the  whole  are  in  a  very  prelimin- 
ary stage,  but  may  find  some  new  inspiration  from  the  motif 
surveys  of  folklorists  like  Dominic  P.  ROTUNDA  —1143— 
Motif -Index  of  the  Italian  Novella  in  Prose  (Bloomington, 
Indiana  Univ.,  1942,  Folklore  series),  or  James  Wesley 
CHILDERS  — 1144 —  Motif -Index  of  the  Narratives  of  Juan 
Timoneda  (ib.,  1949).  John  E.  KELLER  —1145—  Motif-Index 
of  Medieval  Spanish  Exempla  (Knoxville:  Univ.  of  Tennessee 
Press,  1949),  classifies  the  motifs  of  all  narrative  works  in  Old 
Spanish  like  Calila  y  Dimna,  El  Conde  Lucanor,  El  Corbacho,  El 
Libro  de  Buen  Amor,  etc.  Also  the  typescript  of  Nelson  A. 
CAVAZOS  —1146—  Motif-Index  of  Don  Quijote,  MA  Diss., 
Univ.  of  Tennessee,  1949,  must  be  mentioned  for  its  particular 
importance  and  because  its  results  will  be  incorporated  in  Stith 
Thompson's  Motif-Index  of  Folk  Literature. 


CHAPTER  IX 

History  of  Style  and  Epoch  Styles 

Certainly  one  of  the  aims  of  all  types  of  literary  style  studies 
is  to  bring  together  the  elements  for  a  history  of  style.  But 
it  is  difficult  to  imagine  how  these  elements  may  be  put  into 
a  synthesis  for  a  literary  history  of  art  or  even  for  its  single 
layers  or  cross  sections.  By  layers  we  would  understand  the 
epochs  and  generations  envisaged  stylistically,  by  cross  sections 
the  two  fundamental  stylistic  twins  Prose  and  Poetry.  Attempts 
at  a  history  of  a  whole  national  literature  let  alone  several 
literatures  on  a  comparative  basis,  have  all  proved  unsatisfactory 
up  to  the  present  time,  whether  it  be  that  the  impatience  of  the 
investigators  has  built  on  moving  sands  without  the  founda- 
tion of  previous  inquiries  in  special  problems,  or  that  the  layer 
analyzed  had  too  variegated  aspects,  or  that  the  supposed  style 
epoch  showed  features  much  too  slight  to  offer  something 
representative  of  a  collective  style  and  not  just  devices  as 
previously  discussed  in  chapters  VII  and  VIII.  Since  style  is 
our  main  concern,  we  are  not  listing  works  in  which  the  cultural 
aspect  of  certain  epochs  is  appraised,  but  rather  studies  in  which 
the  features  common  to  the  majority  of  works  of  the  same  era 
are  analyzed. 

A.  History  of  Prose 

The  book  by  G.  LANSON  —1147—  Uart  de  la  prose  (Paris: 
Fayard,  1907),  considered  in  Chapter  I  (no.  87)  as  a  collec- 
tion of  explications  de  textes,  reaches  heights  never  again  at- 
tained, although  it  is  only  a  sketch  of  the  stylistic  evolution  of 
French  prose.  D.  MORNET  —1148—  Histoire  de  la  clarte 
frangaise  (Paris:  Payot,  1929),  keeps  much  less  close  to  the 
stylistic  problems  as  such  than  did  the  older  work  of  Lanson. 
Mornet  is  concerned  as  much  with  thought  as  with  rhetoric 
and  his  book  offers  rather  a  history  of  right  thinking  than  a 
history  of  clear  forms.  "La  clarte  dont  s'enorgueillit  Rivarol 
est  celle  de  Racine,  de  Fontenelle,  de  Voltaire,  et  non  pas  celle 
de  J.  J.  Rousseau"  (p.  356).  Erich  AUERBACH  —1149-^ 
Mimesis:    Dargestellte    Wirklichkeit    in    der    abendlandischen 


202  History  of  Style  and  Epoch  Styles    1150-1151 

Literatur  (Bern:  Francke,  1946),  referred  to  in  Part  I  (no. 
88)  as  disconnected  explanations  of  realistic  texts,  is  none  the 
less  much  more  than  that.  It  came  too  early  and  Auerbach 
was  too  eager  to  prove  the  doubtful  thesis  of  figurative  style ;  but 
the  work  is  the  ideal  history  of  realistic  style,  from  Homer  to 
Proust,  on  a  broad  comparative  basis. 

Surprisingly,  a  work  concerning  Rumanian  literature,  Tudor 
VIANU  — 1150 —  Arta  prozatorilor  romani  (Bucuresti,  1941), 
is  actually  the  only  style  history  of  prose  we  have.  It  is  much 
more  modern  than  Lanson,  although  based  on  the  traditional 
Greco-Latin  stylistic  distinctions  in  rather  conservative  fashion. 
But  this  viewpoint  allows  the  author  the  grouping  of  indivi- 
dual writers  under  common  general  style  tendencies.  There 
are  rhetoricians  like  the  militant  Heliade  Radulescu  and  the 
serene  Nicolae  Balcescu,  there  are  melodious  writers  like  Alecu 
Russo,  there  are  realists  like  the  dramatic  Costache  Negruzzi, 
first  to  use  the  picturesque  imperfect,  and  the  lyrical  Duiliu 
Zamfirescu.  There  is  the  visionary  Mihail  Sadoveanu  with 
his  symphonic  landscapes.  There  are  different  styles  of  novels 
like  those  of  the  brutal  naturalist  Liviu  Rebreanu,  the  psycho- 
logical symbolist  Hortensia  Papadat-Bengescu,  the  aesthetical 
mannerist  Ionel  Teodoreanu  and  the  reflective  fragmentist 
Camil  Petrescu.  Vianu  furthermore  distinguishes  a  super- 
realistic  prose  consisting  in  the  art  of  spiritualizing  things  con- 
crete in  the  work  of  Mihail  Eminescu,  in  the  rhythmical  enumer- 
ations of  Ion  Creanga,  in  the  indirect  characterization  of  I.  L. 
Caragiale,  in  the  classical  parody  and  ironical  exaggeration  of 
Calistrat  Hogas.  Another  prose,  the  solemn  classical  type,  is 
recognizable  in  the  erudite  allusions  of  Alexandru  Odobescu 
and  in  the  ideological  simultaneous  presentation  of  Nicola 
Iorga.  The  most  modern  intellectual  tendency  to  imagery  char- 
acterizes the  highly  metaphorical  Alexandru  Macedonski  and 
his  pupil  Tudor  Arghezi,  master  of  the  striking  epithet.  A  good 
provisional  history  of  Italian  prose  with  stress  on  language 
rather  than  speech  is  Alfredo  SCHIAFFINI  — 1151 —  Momenti 
di  storia  della  lingua  italiana  (Bari:  "Leonardo  da  Vinci", 
1950). 

There  must  be  mentioned  again,  because  of  its  instructive 
stylistic  analysis  of  scientific  Italian  writers,  a  work  that  has 
received   far   less    acknowledgement   than    its    due   from   the 


1152-1155  History  of  Poetry  203 

critics:  Leonardo  OLSCHKI  —1152—  Geschichte  der  neu- 
sprachlichen  wissenschaftlichen  Literatur  (Heidelberg-Leipzig- 
Halle,  1918-27,  3vls).  By  means  of  examples,  Olschki  works 
out  the  brilliant  stylistic  traits  of  Leonardo  da  Vinci,  Giordano 
Bruno  (III,  23  ff.)  and  Galileo  Galilei  (III,  167  ff.),  Albrecht 
Durer  and  many  others.  His  concern  is  the  development  of  com- 
mon prose  features  which  enable  these  authors  to  express  scien- 
tific concepts  and  ideas  for  which  the  traditional  Latin  could 
only  afford  clumsy  circumlocutions.  Thus  the  natural  sciences 
inaugurate  and  constitute  the  history  of  scientific  prose  in  the 
modern  languages  and  oust  Latin,  which  retires  to  the  domain 
of  theology,  jurisprudence,  and  academic  poetry,  where  new 
"things"  do  not  arise  to  provoke  new  "words". 

Following  a  suggestion  of  Amado  Alonso  one  may  consider 
as  a  condensed  history  of  Spanish  prose  style,  the  introduc- 
tions to  the  trozos  offered  in  R.  MENfiNDEZ  PIDAL  —1153— 
Antologia  de  prosistas  espanols  (Madrid:  Centro  de  Estudios, 
1923,  also  a  volume  of  the  Coleccion  Austral) . 

B.  History  of  Poetry 

R.  M.  MAC  ANDREW  — 1154 —  Naturalism  in  Spanish  Poet- 
ry from  the  Origins  to  1900  (Aberdeen:  Milne,  1931),  may  be 
considered  a  failure;  it  is  certainly  not  a  Spanish  "Mimesis" 
(no.  1149).  Here  one  may  say  by  principle  that  not  only  the 
arbitrary  making  of  history  of  style  but  any  attempt  at  bring- 
ing heterogeneous  material  together  can  never  become  a  history. 
Simply  putting  nature  descriptions,  nature  as  a  sentiment  and 
naturalism  as  a  philosophy  on  the  same  level  shows  the  inade- 
quacy of  a  stylistic  approach  which  is  not  centered  around  one 
single  formal  problem. 

Deterred  by  the  hopeless  failure  of  Ferdinand  Brunetiere's 
attempt  to  describe  the  "biological"  evolution  of  lyric  forms, 
the  style  investigators  have  avoided  until  now  anything  which 
looks  like  a  history  of  poetry.  Helmut  HATZFELD  — 1155 — 
"Wortkunstgeschichte.  Erlautert  an  der  Sprache  der  religiosen 
Dichtung  in  den  romanischen  Landern,"  GRM,  XIX  (1931), 
124-142,  none  the  less  believed  that  a  history  of  lyrical  forms, 
evolutionary  or  not,  may  be  possible  if  considered  as  the  styl- 
istic onomatology,  e.g.,  of  religious  ideas  and  sentiments  in 
the  sense  of  Henri  Bremond.     The  practical  working  out  of 


204  History  of  Style  and  Epoch  Styles    1156-1158 

such  a  program,  it  is  true,  met  with  unsurmountable  difficul- 
ties. Also  attempts  to  extend  the  investigation  of  individual 
styles  into  collective  styles  ran  into  numerous  obstacles.  Only 
in  matters  where  routine  forms  of  eloquence  and  rhetoric,  or 
verse  and  strophe  and  external  form  are  paramount,  would  a 
beginning  be  possible.  But  even  historians  of  eloquence  and 
poetic  patterns  are  more  tempted  by  the  history  of  style  theory 
as  such,  and  this  is  not,  properly  speaking,  a  history  of  style. 

Under  such  precarious  circumstances,  Rene  TAUPIN  — 1156 — 
Quatre  essais  indiff events  pour  une  esthetique  de  V inspiration, 
Paris :  Presses  universitaires,  1932,  deserves  consideration.  Tau- 
pin  tries  to  demonstrate  that  myths  quickly  assume  a  form 
and  that  this  formal  frame,  differently  filled,  conditions  the 
history  of  poetry  which  may  depend  partly  on  the  influence  of 
a  foreign  language  pattern  e.g.  on  English  working  upon 
French.  Milton's  English  in  the  hands  of  Chateaubriand  has 
created  the  Romantic  language  in  France.  Erich  Freiherr  von 
RICHTHOFEN  —1157—  "La  evolucion  estilistica  en  la  poesia 
romance,"  Anodes  del  Instituto  de  Linguistica  (Cuyo)  IV 
(1950),  1-35,  makes  a  hodgepodge  out  of  literary  works  in  the 
different  Romance  countries  from  the  Chanson  de  Roland  to 
Valery  and  from  Dante  to  Jorge  Guillen,  sometimes  stressing 
certain  stylistic  features,  sometimes  discussing  influences,  some- 
times trying  a  synthetic  criticism.  The  whole  attempt  proves 
that  a  wholesale  history  of  style  is  today  simply  unimaginable. 

C.    Epoch  Styles 

1.  The  Middle  Ages 

In  the  attempt  to  establish  a  history  of  medieval  stylistics, 
it  is  laudable  that  a  distinction  is  made  between  philosophical 
poetic  theory  and  practical  counsels  of  the  artes  poeticae.  A 
history  of  poetic  theory  on  the  basis  of  philosophical  aesthetics 
has  been  offered  by  Edgar  DE  BRUYNE  — 1158— Etudes 
df  esthetique  medievale,  3  vols.  (Brugge:  De  Tempel,  1936).  He 
deals  in  the  first  volumes  with  the  aesthetics  of  Boethius,  Cas- 
siodorus,  Isidore,  Hrabanus  Maurus  and  Scotus  Erigena;  in 
the  second  with  the  Victorines,  the  School  of  Chartres,  Bernar- 
dus  Silvestris,  and  Alanus  ab  Insulis;  in  the  third  with  Saint 
Bernard,  Gilbert  of  Hoiland,  Alexander  of  Hales,  Vincent  of 
Beauvais,  Grosseteste,  St.  Albert  the  Great,  Saint  Bonaventure, 


1159-1163  Epoch  Styles  205 

St.  Thomas  Aquinas  and  Duns  Scotus.  The  practical  advantage 
derived  by  the  style  investigator  from  the  poetical  arts  them- 
selves is  that  the  uninterrupted  tradition,  i.e.  the  history  of  the 
figures  of  speech  as  such,  can  be  studied  closely.  The  merit  of 
having  seen  this  is  to  the  credit  of  Edmond  FARAL  — 1159 — 
Les  arts  poetiques  du  Xlle  et  du  XIHe  siecles.  Re\cherches  et 
documents  sur  la  technique  litteraire  du  moyen  age  (Paris: 
Champion,  1925). 

Based  on  philosophy  and  literary  theory,  Ernst  Robert 
CURTIUS  —1160—  "Zur  Literaturaesthetik  des  Mittelalters," 
ZRP,  LVIII  (1938),  1-50;  129-232;  433-479;  LIX  (1939),  1-9, 
was  able  to  .  refute  Hans  Hermann  GLUNZ  — 1161—  Die 
Literaturaesthetik  des  Mittelalters  (Bochum:  Poppinghaus, 
1937).  Glunz  had  maintained  that  any  literary  art  of  the  Middle 
Ages  was  an  imitation  of  the  Bible — hence  "God's  grand- 
daughter". Curtius,  after  having  shown  that  this  theory  was 
simply  a  construction,  proved  his  own  point  with  the  strictly 
rhetorical  concept  of  style  in  the  Middle  Ages,  where  there 
was  no  conscious  aesthetics  in  the  modern  sense.  CURTIUS' 
article  — 1162—  "Dichtung  und  Rhetorik  im  Mittelalter,,,  DV, 
XVI  (1938),  433-476,  improved  later  in  ELLM,  153-173,  gives 
a  scheme  according  to  which  could  be  written  a  history  of  Medie- 
val style  flowing  from  Latin  into  the  Vernacular  Romance 
languages.  Taking  the  principle  of  subdivision  from  the  artes 
dictaminis  themselves,  Curtius  would  distinguish:  1.  Sermo 
simplex  or  humble  prose,  2.  Sermo  rhetoricus  or  artificial  prose, 

3.  Rhythmi  or  poetry  based  on  stressed  and  unstressed  syllables, 

4.  Metrical  poetry  based  on  long  and  short  syllables,  5.  Rhy- 
med Prose  or  Isidorian  prose  with  interior  kola  rhymes,  6. 
Mixed  Prose,  i.e.  prose  interspersed  with  poetry. 

Th.  M.  CHARLAND  — 1163—  Artes  praedicandi.  Contri- 
bution a  Vhistoire  de  la  rhetorique  au  moyen-dge  (Paris:  Vrin, 
1936),  with  sub-divisions  (Priere  initiate,  introduction  de 
theme,  fixation  du  mode  de  developpement,  ornements,  etc.)  cer- 
tainly clarified  the  history  of  the  delivery  of  medieval  sermons 
in  the  French  vernacular,  but  he  did  not  explain  the  art  of  the 
sermon. 

Since  the  literary  style  of  the  Middle  Ages  had  very  strong 
collective  genre  elements,  despite  all  previous  discussions  of 


206  History  of  Style  and  Epoch  Styles    1164-1171 

literary  style  as  mainly  individual,  it  was  worth  while  to  study 
at  least  the  history  of  epic  style  in  the  short  period  of  the 
flowering  of  the  chivalrous  genre  in  France.  G.  BILLER 
— 1164 —  Etude  sur  le  style  des  premiers  romans  frangais  en 
vers  (1150-1175),  Diss.,  Goeteborg,  1916,  is  still  today  a  very 
valuable  survey  of  the  evolution  of  Old  French  narrative  style 
forms.  More  general  as  to  authors  included,  but  more  specialized 
as  to  style  trends  is  F.  M.  WARREN  —1165—  "Some  Features 
of  Style  in  Early  French  Narrative  Poetry,  1150-1170,,,  MP, 
III  (1905-06),  179-209;  513-539;  IV  (1907),  655-675. 

Another  possibility  of  research  in  the  Old  French  epic  style 
was  to  take  the  narrative  verse  type  par  excellence  and  to  trace 
the  progress  of  the  narrative  genus  according  to  the  growth  and 
decline  of  octosyllabic  verse.  This  was  done  in  a  masterly  way, 
branching  out  to  the  refined  techniques  of  narration  in  Philipp 
August  BECKER's  learned  studies,  Der  gepaarte  Achtsilbner 
in  der  altfranzbsischen  Dichtung  (Leipzig:  Hirzel,  1934),  and 
its  unexpected  continuation  "Von  den  Erzahlern  neben  und 
nach  Chrestien  de  Troyes,"  ZRP,  LIV  (1934),  257-292. 

The  analogy  to  the  history  of  art  produced  the  pseudo- 
stylistic  history  of  the  Old  French  epic:  Friedrich  SCHttRR, 
Das  altfranzbsische  Epos.  Zur  inner  en  Form  der  Gotik  (Mun- 
chen:  Hueber,  1926).  Schurr's  idea  is  to  parallel  literary  ex- 
pression forms  with  expression  forms  of  the  art  of  design, 
particularly  with  Gothic  architecture.  Such  a  parallelism  is 
absolutely  possible,  but  must  be  handled  very  carefully.  Schurr, 
however,  retreats  to  a  supposed  common  inner  form  of  litera- 
ture and  art  throughout  the  twelfth  century  which  he  finds  in 
scholasticism.  This  is  an  impossible  thesis  even  from  a  chrono- 
logical viewpoint,  the  more  so  as  he  includes  the  chanson  de 
geste  which  would  rather  have  to  be  called  romanesque.  Another 
attempt  to  fix  medieval  styles  by  collecting  traits  which  are 
common  to  all  or  most  of  the  works,  their  individual  and  unique 
style  features  notwithstanding,  proved  to  be  a  hard  task  for 
Helmut  HATZFELD  —1169—  "Literarisches  Hochmittelalter 
in  Frankreich,"  TTL,  XXIX  (1937),  81-123;  145-183,  and 
— 1170 —  "Geist  und  Stil  der  Flamboyanten  Literatur  in  Frank- 
reich," HRL,  II,  137-193.  Literary  historians  have  never  at- 
tempted anything  so  illuminating  as  the  study  of  the  art  his- 
torian Dagobert  FREY  —1171—  "Die  Entwicklung  nationaler 


1172-1177  Epoch  Styles  207 

Stile  in  der  mittelalterlichen  Kunst  des  Abendlandes,"  DV,  XVI 
(1938),  1-74.  Alfredo  SCHIAFFINI  —1172—  "Lingua  e 
tecnica  nella  poesia  d'amore  dai  Provenzali  al  Petrarca,"  CN, 
III  (1943),  149-156,  sketches  the  progressive  refinement  in 
vocabulary  for  the  expression  of  love  in  the  language  of  the 
troubadours  and  the  stilnovisti  within  the  normal  language. 

2.  The  Renaissance 

Paul  SOBRY  — 1173 —  "Principeele  beschouwingen  over  de 
studie  en  het  karakter  der  Renaissancistische  literatuur,  voor- 
namelijk  in  Italie,"  (Fundamental  considerations  concerning 
the  study  and  the  character  of  Renaissance  Literature,  particu- 
larly in  Italy),  in F 'estbundel  H.  J.  van  de  Wijer  (Leuven,  1944), 
269-283,  has  an  excellent  stylistic  analysis  of  Petrarca  as  rep- 
resentative of  the  epoch.  Helmut  HATZFELD  —1174—  "Das 
Wesen  der  franzosischen  Renaissance,"  AR,  XXI  (1937),  353- 
384,  opposes  French  Renaissance  style  to  the  style  features  of 
Italian  and  Spanish  Renaissance,  the  style  trends  of  the  latter 
two  being  contrasted  with  one  another  in  Helmut  HATZFELD 
— 1175 —  "Italienische  Renaissance  und  Spanische  Renaissance," 
LJ,  I  (1926),  24  ff. 

For  the  characterization  of  the  Renaissance  ideals  in  style, 
the  theories  were  exploited  by  W.  F.  PATTERSON  — 1176 — 
Three  Centuries  of  French  Poetic  Theory,  a  critical  history  of 
the  chief  arts  of  poetry  in  France,  1328-1680  (Ann  Arbor:  Univ. 
of  Michigan  Press,  1935).  Patterson  made  his  history  of  theory 
vital  by  means  of  an  anthology. 

3.  Baroque 

It  is  to  the  credit  of  the  style  investigators  to  have  changed 
the  period  1580-1700  into  a  style  period,  the  Baroque  period, 
working  from  the  viewpoint  of  the  arts  of  design,  and  to  have 
tried  to  find  its  common  features  or  period  style,  now  called 
Baroque  style.  Morris  W.  CROLL  —1177—  "The  Baroque  Style 
in  Prose,"  SEP,  427-56,  has  become  classic,  Croll  defining  baro- 
que style  as  "a  radical  effort  to  adapt  traditional  modes  and 
forms  of  expression  to  the  uses  of  a  self-conscious  modernism." 
It  is  "Anti-Ciceronian"  as  far  as  the  form  of  the  period  is  con- 
cerned ;  it  is  "exploded",  as  there  are  no  syntactic  connectives. 
The  purpose  is  not  to  describe  a  thought  but  a  "mind  thinking". 
This  style  is  compatible  with  curt  style  as  well  as  with  loose 


208  History  of  Style  and  Epoch  Styles     1178-1181 

style.  The  first  half  of  the  period  exhausts  an  ideology,  the 
second  adds  imaginative  energy.  The  whole  gives  successive 
flashes  of  a  jewel  or  prism  as  it  is  turned  about  on  its  axis  and 
receives  the  light  in  different  ways.  There  is  deliberate  asym- 
metry, strangeness  in  the  proportions,  change  of  subject  in  the 
elements  of  the  sentence,  change  from  literal  to  metaphorical 
statement — it  is  the  new  expression  of  a  Senecan  stoicism  and 
perspectivism. 

If  it  be  evident  that,  next  to  the  precise  results  of  a  specialized 
investigation,  speculations  as  a  whole  are  justified  as  guides 
and  directive  norms,  it  is  necessary  to  mention  also  such  works 
as  anticipate  characteristics  of  the  style  of  a  period  by  apprehen- 
sion. Th.  SPOERRI  — 1178 —  Renaissance  und  Barock  bei 
Ariost  und  Tasso  (Zurich:  Haupt,  1922)  is  outstanding  in  select- 
ing single  features  and  in  linking  them  by  way  of  comparison 
into  a  style  compound.  The  baroque  style  of  a  musical  legato  and 
fusion,  although  found  only  in  Tasso,  proves  typical  for  each 
work  under  the  influence  of  the  Catholic  reform  of  Trent,  just 
as  those  staccato  traits  of  design  found  in  Ariosto  are  typical 
for  the  whole  pagan  Renaissance.  Spoerri,  closely  following 
the  principles  of  art  of  Heinrich  Wolfflin,  thus  has  done  real 
spade  work  for  the  history  of  style.  A  similar  attempt  for 
Spain,  although  stressing  art  more  than  literature,  was  made  by 
Emilio  OROZCO  DfAS  —1179—  Temas  del  Barroco  (Granada, 
1947).  Fredi  CHIAPELLI  —1180—  "Tassos  Stil  im  ttbergang 
von  Renaissance  zu  Barock,"  T,  VII  (1949),  286-309,  works  out 
the  infiltration  of  lyrical  and  dramatic  elements  into  the  tradi- 
tional style  of  the  Ariostian  Epic.  Ulrich  LEO  — 1181 —  Tor- 
quato  Tasso.  Studien  zur  Vorgeschichte  des  Secentismo  (Berne: 
Francke,  1951),  tries  to  show  how  Tasso's  split  personality  com- 
ing finally  to  a  spiritual  rest  is  reflected  in  the  progress  of  his 
work.  Embodied  in  the  development  of  the  epoch  style  on  which 
he  depends  and  which  he  helps  shape  at  the  same  time,  Tasso  is  a 
guide  first  to  the  Baroque  and  then  to  its  mitigation,  Classicism, 
in  his  own  Italy.  Leo's  very  profound  book  is,  however,  much 
more  concerned  with  Tasso's  personal  than  with  his  epochal 
style.    It  solves  the  Tasso  question  through  Stilforschung. 

Establishing  a  particular  Tridentine  style  in  literature  for 
the  epoch  1560-1610  is  the  concern  of  Jos£  CAM6N  AZNAR 


1182-1188  Epoch  Styles  209 

— 1182 —  Don  Quijote  en  la  teorva  de  los  estilos  (Zaragoza: 
Institution  "Fernando  el  Catolico,"  1949)  : 

Este  estilo  intermedio  entre  el  Renacimiento  y  el  Barroco  .  .  . 
recoge  del  primero  sus  ultimas  consecuencias  platonizantes  y 
acoge  tambien  en  su  regazo  las  primicias  naturalistas  del  segundo 
(p.  19). 

Tridentine  style  is  an  attempt  to  reform  the  world  with  pro- 
grams of  the  spirit  only  (p.  21),  or  "esta  decision  espanola  de 
incorporar  el  mundo  a  su  esquema  doctrinal"  (p.  27),  "un 
sistema  mental  de  tipo  casuista"  (p.  47),  "predominio  de  la 
consciencia  sobre  la  espontaneidad  naturalista"  (p.  50).  The 
thesis  of  the  Madrid  art  historian  is  in  its  generalities  not  quite 
convincing. 

A.  MEOZZI  —1183—  II  secentismo  europeo  (Pisa:  Nistri- 
Lischi,  1936) ,  fulfills  the  requirements  of  a  style  history  of  the 
seventeenth  century  in  a  still  vaguer  sense  but  on  a  compara- 
tive basis.  He  presents  the  story  of  literary  mannerism  but  with 
rather  empty  filing  cases.  It  is  difficult  to  use  occasional  find- 
ings on  cumulative  style  of  different  generations  for  fixing  an 
epoch  style  on  a  comparative  basis.  Even  Ernst  Robert  CUR- 
TIUS  —1184—  "Mittelalterlicher  und  barocker  Dichtungsstil," 
MP,  XXXVIII  (1940-41),  325-333,  does  something  fragmentary 
when  he  drags  into  the  history  of  topical  patterns  phenomena 
occurring  in  different  epochs  under  different  conditions. 

Among  the  stylistic  speculations  about  the  Baroque  is  Marcel 
RAYMOND  — 1185 —  "Classique  et  Baroque  dans  la  poesie  de 
Ronsard,"   in   Concinnitas,  Festschrift   filr   Heinrich    Wolfflin 
(Basel:  1944),  remarkable  for  its  high  level  of  scholarship  al- 
though a  failure  as  to  its  approach  since  it  is  meaningless  to  char- 
acterize the  Renaissance  mannerisms  of  Ronsard  as  baroque  with- 
out qualification.     The  stimulating  book  of  Guillermo  DfAZ 
PLAJA  — 1186 —  El  espiritu  del  barroco  (Barcelona:  Editorial 
Apolo,  1940),  bases  Renaissance  on  armas  and  Baroque  on  letras 
and  degeneration.  Gonzague  DE  REYNOLD  —1187—  he  XVIIe 
Steele,   he   Classique    et   le   Baroque    (Montreal:    Editions    de 
l'Arbre,  1944)  proves  that  the  concept  of  style  has  begun  to  be 
the  predominant  element  in  literary  history,  although  he  does 
not  understand  the  problem  which  he  tries  to  clarify.  Each 
stylistic  approach,  however,  helps  a  little  more  the  new  baroque 
concept.    Wilhelm  MICHELS  —1188—  Barockstil  bei  Shake- 
speare und  Calderon,  Diss.,  Frankfurt,   1928,  or  RH,  LXXV 


210  History  of  Style  and  Epoch  Styles    1189-1195 

(1929),  370-4,58,  considers  the  hyperbolic  style  forms  in  both  of 
these  authors  but  sees  a  difference  in  degree,  Shakespeare  using 
them  only  for  the  purpose  of  characterization,  Calderon  as 
genuine  expression  of  himself.  This  construction  as  a  whole 
may  not  be  convincing  for  everybody,  but  the  results  in  detail 
are  carefully  balanced  and  sober. 

Gerhard  ROHLFS  offers  a  study  in  Racine's  language  and 
art  as  baroque  — 1189 —  "Ratines  Mithridate  als  Beispiel 
hofischer  Barockdichtung,"  ASNS,  CLXIX  (1936),  200-212, 
and  determines  thus  the  meaning  of  baroque  style  as  the  style 
of  later  seventeenth  century  France.  Sister  Mary  Julie  MAG- 
GIONI  — 1190 —  The  Pensees  of  Pascal.  A  Study  in  Baroque 
Style,  Diss.,  Catholic  University,  Washington,  D.  C.,  1950,  sees 
all  the  style  elements  of  Pascal,  from  antithesis  to  imagery  and 
sound  combinations,  as  an  expression  of  his  own  tension  between 
faith  and  knowledge.  This  style  reveals  an  inner  language  form 
which  tries  to  unite  disunity.  The  author  explains  that  this  pat- 
tern, prototypical  in  Pascal,  is  none  the  less  also  the  pattern  of 
the  epoch  style  in  which  Pascal  participates — the  Baroque.  Pascal 
appears  as  the  most  intensive  and  tragic  example  of  baroque 
style  on  the  side  of  Faith  without  any  manneristic  trimmings. 
After  the  results  of  this  dissertation,  one  should  stop  talking 
about  the  romanticism  of  Pascal  and  other  French  classicists 
and  acknowledge  precisely  their  baroque  style.  The  antimony, 
no  longer  surprising  and  only  apparent,  that  the  great  classical 
century  in  France  appears  from  a  European  viewpoint  baroque, 
has  been  discussed  in  Helmut  HATZFELD  — 1191 —  "Die  fran- 
zosische  Klassik  in  neuer  Sicht,"  TTL,  XXVII  (1935),  213-282. 

Rene  WELLEK  —1192—  "The  Concept  of  Baroque  in 
Literary  Scholarship,"  JAe,  V  (1946),  77-108,  gives  a  critical 
and  most  useful  survey  of  all  other  attempts  at  defining  this 
epoch  style  called  Baroque.  Henri  PEYRE  — 1193—  "Quel- 
ques  ouvrages  recents  sur  le  dix-septieme  siecle,"  RR,  XL 
(1949),  122-134,  stresses  the  shift  of  interest  from  Classicism 
to  Preclassicism  or  early  Baroque  in  the  recent  French  criticism, 
and  Helmut  HATZFELD  tries  to  give  a  mise  au  point  in 
— 1194 —  "A  Clarification  of  the  Baroque  Problem  in  the  Ro- 
mance Literatures,"  CL,  I  (1949),  113-139.  Finally  AfrAnio 
COUTINHO  — 1195 —  Aspectos  da  literatura  barroca  (Rio  de 
Janeiro,  1950),  is  the  first  to  include  Portuguese  literature  in 


1196-1201  Epoch  Styles  211 

a  rather  complete  survey  of  baroque  styles  and  baroque  style 
studies. 

4.  Rococo 

Since  the  classical  age  had  been  viewed  stylistically  as 
Baroque,  the  age  of  Enlightenment  was  logically  called  Rococo. 
Therefore,  following  always  the  pattern  of  art  history,  J.  E. 
HILLER  has  applied  the  art  principles  of  Baroque  and  Rococo 
to  the  dramatic  theories  of  Corneille  and  Lessing  — 1196 — 
"Lessing  und  Corneille;  Rokoko  und  Barock,"  RF,  XLVII 
(1933),  159-176.  Corneille  loved  his  Rodogune  best;  Lessing 
found  it  particularly  poor  and  undramatic,  because  the  en- 
lightened rationalist  and  man  of  the  Rococo  had  lost  the  un- 
derstanding of  the  fundamentally  tragic  attitude  of  the  baroque 
man.  This  article  is  one  of  the  German  attempts  to  shift  a  style 
quality  to  the  level  of  the  psychology  of  human  beings. 

Erika  HUBNER  — 1197 —  Der  hofische  Roman  des  fran- 
zosischen  Rokoko,  Diss.,  Greifswald,  1936,  affords  a  mine  of 
information  on  aesthetical,  cultural  and  sociological  factors  in 
their  inseparable  unity  as  to  the  settings,  characters  and  style 
of  the  graceful,  witty  and  light  stories  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury. Fr.  SCETORR,  — 1198 —  Barock,  Klassizisrnus  und  Rokoko 
in  der  franzosischen  Literatur  (Leipzig:  Teubner,  1928),  not 
only  describes  the  stylistic  differences  but  also  the  values,  as 
he  sees  them,  of  these  three  literary  styles  as  indicative  of  the 
French  spirit.  Helmut  HATZFELD  —1199—  "Rokoko  als  liter- 
arischer  Epochenstil,"  SP,  XXXIII  (1938),  532-565,  tries  to 
see  the  eighteenth  century  as  a  literary  unity  based  on  stylistic 
forms  revealing  esprit,  elegance,  hidden  melancholy,  and  a 
dance  on  the  verge  of  an  abyss. 

5.  Romanticism 

Romanticism  as  a  stylistic  epoch  in  literary  history  was 
selected  at  an  early  date  by  Emmanuel  BARAT  — 1200 —  Le 
style  poetique  et  la  revolution  romantique  (Paris,  1904),  a  book 
of  great  value  still  today.  Charles  BRUNEAU  — 1201 — 
Histoire  de  la  langue  frangaise,  tome  XII :  Vepoque  romantique 
(Paris:  Colin.  1948),  has  long  chapters  on  style  in  a  method 
fundamentally  different  from  his  predecessor,  Ferdinand  Bru- 
not.  As  far  as  characterization  goes,  he  speaks  about  style  bibli- 


212  History  of  Style  and  Epoch  Styles     1202-1207 

que,  evangelique,  chretien  primitif,  greco-latin,  bos-empire, 
gaulois,  sauvage,  oriental,  troubadour,  cosmopolite,  refugie, 
etc.  There  is  also  an  appreciation  of  romantic  historiography 
which  is  helpful  for  style  history  because  the  expression-forms, 
with  tendencies  of  literary  beauty,  seem  as  important  as  the 
thought  itself  in  a  series  of  writers  from  Vico  to  Fustel  de 
Coulanges.  This  thesis  is  developed  in  Emery  NEFF  — 1202 — 
The  Poetry  of  History:  The  Contribution  of  Literature  and 
Literary  Scholarship  to  the  Writing  of  History  since  Voltaire 
(New  York:  Columbia  Univ.  Press,  1947). 

Paul  VAN  TIEGHEM  —1203—  Le  Romawtisme  dans  la  lit- 
terature  europeenne  (Paris:  Michel,  1948),  has  a  chapter  on 
romantic  style  (pp.  373-384),  complains  of  the  lack  of  pre- 
liminary studies,  and  finds  Barat  (no.  1200)  entirely  unsatisfac- 
tory (decevant)  ;  while  Van  Tieghem  himself  stresses  images 
and  cult  of  prose  as  decisive,  Helmut  HATZFELD  — 1204 — 
"Wesen  und  Gestaltelemente  des  franzosischen  Romantisme," 
LJ,  VIII  (1936),  216-273,  tries,  as  he  usually  does,  to  establish 
style  features  common  to  all  authors  of  the  epoch.  He  follows 
Dagobert  Frey  in  making  literary  criticism  independent  of  back- 
ground criteria  and  follows  Love  joy  in  sharply  distinguishing 
French  Romanticism  from  Germanic  Romanticism. 

6.    Realism 

Among  the  many  studies  on  Realism,  Impressionism  and 
Naturalism,  there  is  not  a  single  one  which  considers  these  lit- 
erary trends  and  schools  exclusively  from  the  stylistic  angle  by 
stressing  linguistic  details  (see  nos.  916-924).  This  viewpoint 
appears  only  when  writers  try  to  establish  the  role  of  a  certain 
author  in  the  movement.  One  tries  to  declare  Flaubert  the 
founder  of  literary  Impressionism,  ignoring  his  predecessors, 
particularly  Balzac:  W.  MELANG  — 1205 —  Flaubert  als  Be- 
grilnder  des  literarischen  Impressionismus  in  Frankreich,  Diss., 
Munster,  1933,  tries  to  find  fault  with  the  earlier  work  by  Erich 
E.  K0HLER  — 1206 —  Edmond  und  Jules  de  Goncourt,  die  Be- 
grilnder  des  Impressionismus  (Leipzig,  1912),  which,  how- 
ever, is  extremely  rich  in  information  on  the  imitation  of  the 
painterly  Impressionism  through  the  ecriture  artiste. 

E.  CORREA  CALDER6N  gives  a  stylistic  history  and 
analysis  of  the  particular  Spanish  realism  called  costumbrismo 
under  the  title  —1207—  "Analisis  del  cuadro  de  costumbres," 


1208-1215  Epoch  Styles  213 

RIE,  VII  (1949),  65-72.  ENRIQUE  ANDERSON  IMBERT 
— 1208 —  "El  escamoteo  de  la  realidad  en  las  'Sonatas'  de  Valle- 
Inclan,"  Realidad,  IV  (1948),  39-53,  shows  that  the  realism  of 
Valle-Inclan  turns  into  symbolism:  reality  is  veiled  by  its  re- 
flection in  mirrors,  its  effacing  by  mist.  He  achieves  this  literary 
metamorphosis  also  by  transforming  wild  nature  into  a  garden, 
hectic  actions  into  smooth  dances,  historic  events  into  pageants 
on  tapestries,  etc. 

The  common  style  features  which  Hans  JESCHKE  vindi- 
cates for  — 1209 —  Die  Generation  von  1898  in  Spanien.  Versuch 
einer  Wesensbestimmung  (no.  1018),  are  of  such  a  general  and 
vague  modernrsta  type  (exquisite  color  shades,  adjective  in- 
stead of  adverb,  objective  epithets  placed  before  substantives) 
that  they  do  not  at  all  prove  that  certain  Spanish  authors  di- 
verging entirely  in  their  philosophy  of  life  belong  stylistically  to 
the  generation  of  1898.  It  is  still  less  possible  to  base  this  gen- 
eration on  a  unique  hero-type  appearing  in  its  novels  according 
to  R.  P.  REDING  —1210—  The  Generation  of  '98  Seen  through 
its  Fictional  Hero,  in  SCS,  vol.  17  (1936). 

Helmut  HATZFELD  — 1211 —  "Discussion  sur  le  natura- 
lisme  francais,"  SP,  XXXIX  (1942),  696-727,  tries  to  combine 
general  style  features  of  this  epoch  with  its  outlook  on  life. 
Walter  LACHER  — 1212 —  Le  realisme  dans  le  roman  con- 
temporain  (Geneve:  Imprimerie  centrale,  1940)  is  a  tentative 
but  valid  stylistic  subdivision  of  the  contemporary  French  novel. 
Its  realism  is  supposed  to  be  either  psychological  (Proust),  or 
classical  (Gide),  individualistic  (Mauriac),  or  spiritualistic 
(Duhamel),  urban  (Romains),  or  primitive  (Ramuz),  idyllic 
(Chateaubriant),  or  documentary  (Martin  du  Gard),  populistic 
(Therive),  or  lyrical  (Montherlant),  only  descriptive  (Colette), 
or  oniric  (Jaloux,  Green) .  About  twentieth  century  style  there 
are  some  pages  in  Denis  SAURAT  — 1213 —  "L'apres-guerre : 
Le  style  'moderne',"  NRF  (1931),  II,  793-800.  Walter  BINNI 
— 1214 —  La  poetica  del  Decadentismo  italiano  (Firenze:  San- 
soni,  1936),  tries  in  vain  to  give  the  representatives  of  the 
Scapigliatura,  D'Annunzio,  Pascoli  and  the  futurists  a  common 
decadent  denominator  consisting  in  a  superabundance  of  vocabu- 
lary belittling  the  great  things  and  aggrandizing  the  little  ones. 
Futurism  received  a  stylistic  discussion  by  M.  F.  CORNALI 
— 1215 —  La  lingua  del  futurismo  nelle  parole  in  libertd  (Roma: 


214  History  of  Style  and  Epoch  Styles  1216 

Cuggiani,  1942).  It  is  self-evident  that  the  style  features  of 
Modernism  were  discussed,  superficially  though  it  may  be,  in 
Arqueles  VELA  — 1216 —  Teoria  literaria  del  Modernismo.  Su 
filosofia.  Su  estetica.  Su  tecnica  (Mexico:  Botas,  1949).  Of  styl- 
istic interest  are  the  chapters  on  Lo  popular  y  lo  culto:  Variantes 
estilisticas,  pp.  266  f.,  and  on  Poesia,  un  fenomeno  linguistico, 
pp.  304  ff. 

Although  the  articles  dealing  with  style  history  and  epoch 
styles  are  scarce,  they  show  clearly  which  direction  they  must 
take  when  the  material  is  ready  to  fill  the  blueprints  with  con- 
vincing data.  Because  the  individuality  of  authors  is  always 
less  depending  on  techniques  than  that  of  painters,  as  Julius 
Petersen  once  stressed,  and  schools  and  imitations  are  therefore 
of  a  doubtful  artistic  character,  epoch  styles  and  style  history 
mean  for  literature  something  so  much  different  from  the  situa- 
tion in  the  arts  that  the  whole  analogy  is  still  subject  to  dis- 
cussion. 


CHAPTER  X 

Idiomatology 

The  investigation  of  the  style  of  a  spoken  language,  as  the 
tongue  common  to  a  nation  at  a  certain  epoch  of  history,  is  the 
analysis  of  a  fluid  collective  work  of  unconscious  linguistic  art 
seen  as  though  coagulating  at  a  concrete  moment.  It  is  the 
stylistic  investigation  of  the  Umgangssprachen  as  s\ich  in  cer- 
tain layers.  This  insight  was  destined  to  bring  about  an  en- 
tirely new  stylistic  discipline,  "idiomatology,"  as  it  was  called  by 
Murat  H.  Roberts.  It  is  inseparable  from  the  search  for  the 
characteristics  of  a  language  as  the  forms  of  expression  of  a 
national  culture  rather  than  a  grammatical  system.  Therefore, 
the  merely  technical  language  analyses  and  descriptions  of  the 
school  of  Bloomfield,  however  useful  they  may  be,  do  not  represent 
idiomatology.  Other  variants  of  Saussurian  linguistics  consid- 
ering also  meaning,  structure  and  function  (Troubetzkoy, 
Hjelmslev,  Martinet)  would  lend  themselves  more  easly  to  idio- 
matology. 

Since  stylistic  studies  presented  heretofore  have  mainly  sought 
the  essential  traits  in  the  particular  language  of  individual  writ- 
ers, the  ensuing  critically  reviewed  studies  of  collective  speeches 
must  be  preceded  by  some  theory.  The  language  of  a  community 
despite  its  constant  possible  sprinkling  with  imaginative  and  af- 
fective speech  elements,  is  much  more  of  a  frozen  language  than 
the  language  pattern  of  any  literary  school;  but  the  elements 
which  have  made  it  throughout  the  centuries,  though  now  gram- 
maticized, are  different  in  their  unique  constellation  from  the 
verbal  elements  of  other  linguistic  communities,  frozen  into  quite 
different  constellations.  Consequently  the  comparison  of  these 
elements  and  their  compounds  occurring  in  one  language 
with  those  occurring  in  another  language  represents  a  study  of 
stylistic  difference  which  is  of  the  greatest  interest.  If  the  whole 
of  a  national  language  is  the  object  of  investigation,  the  stylistic 
work  done  is  Language  Characterization.  If,  however,  particu- 
lar elements  are  singled  out,  one  is  concerned  according  to  the 
center  of  interest  either  with  particular  Idiomatic  Semantics  or 
with  Idiomatic  Onomatology.  Starting  from  the  form,  one  is 
concerned  with  the  study  of  the  stylistic  meaning  of  a  syntagma, 


216  IDIOMATOLOGY  1217-1220 

locution  or  image,  typical  of  a  particular  language  (Idiom) ; 
starting  from  a  concept  and  searching  for  its  different  forms  of 
expression,  one  is  concerned  with  idiomatic  onomatology,  the 
study  of  the  particular  verbal  patterns  for  attitudes  of  thought 
and  feeling  as  finally  integrated  in  a  linguistic  system. 

A.     Generalities. 

Before  approaching  these  three  subdivisions  (characteriza- 
tion, semantics,  onomatology  of  style),  it  will  be  fitting  to  indi- 
cate the  originators  of  this  hitherto  least  accepted  kind  of  stylis- 
tics.  The  problem  was  first  seen  by  Karl  Vossler  when  he  pub- 
lished his  article  on  national  languages  as  styles :  — 1217 —  "Die 
Nationalsprachen  als  Stile,"  JP,  I  (1925),  1-23,  in  which  he  tried 
to  put  into  mutual  interdependence  categories  of  grammar  and 
poetical  forms.  This  stirring  article  was  reprinted  in  Geist  und 
Kultur  in  der  Sprache  (Heidelberg :  Winter,  1925)  and  as  a  book- 
let: Wesenszilge  romanischer  Sprache  und  Dichtung  (Miinchen, 
1946).  Vossler,  furthermore,  tried  to  stress  the  elements  which 
are  typical  and  different  in  each  of  the  three  main  Romance 
languages  in  his  article  — 1218—  "Italieniseh,  Franzosisch, 
Spanisch,"  Z  (1926),  and  in  The  Spirit  of  Language  in  Civiliza- 
tion (New  York:  Harcourt,  1932).  Vossler  exemplified  his 
point  by  Spanish  alone  in  the  chapter  — 1219 —  "El  idioma  y  sus 
estilos,"  in  his  Introduccion  a  la  literatura  espanola  del  siglo  de 
oro  (Buenos  Aires:  Espasa,  1945),  13-32. 

It  will  be  seen  from  the  following  bibliographical  items  that 
Leo  Spitzer,  Eugen  Lerch,  Amado  Alonso,  Werner  Beinhauer 
and  others  have  followed  Vossler's  plan  with  excellent  studies. 
But  it  is  Murat  H.  ROBERTS  who  theoretically  made  a  point 
of  this  type  of  stylistics  in  his  article  — 1220 —  "The  Science  of 
Idiom:  A  Method  of  Inquiry  into  the  Cognitive  Design  of  Lan- 
guage," PMLA,  LIX  (1944),  291-306.  Roberts  points  out  with 
well  chosen  examples  from  different  languages  (neanmoins  versus 
sin  embargo ;  bonjour,  Monsieur  versus  Buenos  dias)  that  "idiom 
begins  in  the  substance  of  ideas  and  ends  in  the  form  of  words" 
which,  in  spite  of  their  very  individual  origin,  are  treated  by 
later  generations  as  traditional  stock  phrases  typically  fulfilling 
the  exigencies  of  the  "genie  de  la  langue."  Style  is  involved 
because 

The  imagination  of  generations  of  individuals  has  furnished 


1221-1224  Generalities  217 

the  material  from  which  the  idioms  of  language  are  drawn.  Idiom 
is  the  idiosyncrasy  of  permutation  which  a  given  language  ex- 
hibits in  contradistinction  to  all  other  languages,  or  that  a  given 
period  exhibits  in  contrast  to  all  previous  periods. 

The  author  means  that  e.g.  modern  French  as  an  idiomatic  unity 
can  be  opposed  geographically  to  Spanish  or  historically  to  Old 
French.    In  either  case  its  idiomatic  character  tomes  to  the  fore. 

Whether  the  idiom  is  a  figure  of  speech,  an  anomaly  of  gram- 
mar, or  merely  a  group  of  words  carrying  a  meaning  not  to  be 
gathered  from  its  component  parts  considered  separately,  the 
comprehensive  definition  will  hold  (p.  300). 

It  can  easily  be  seen  that  Roberts  wants  to  do  precisely  the  same 
thing  as  Vossler,  although  he  worked  independently  of  him. 

The  idea  of  idiomatology  must  also  have  been  in  the  mind  of 
C.  M.  ROBERT  — 1221—  Etudes  d'idiome  et  de  syntaxe  (Gro- 
ningue:  1917).  He  studied  stylistically  on  a  comparative  basis 
French  idioms  such  as:  Merci;  s'il  vous  plait;  voyons;  mon  petit; 
je  fus  m'asseoir;  meubles  meublants,  etc.  On  a  strictly  scientific 
level,  language  characterization  was  attempted  by  Ernst  LEWY 
—1222 —  "Der  Bau  der  europaischen  Sprachen,"  PRIA,  XL VIII, 
2  (1942),  15-117,  which  was,  however,  rejected  as  premature  by 
Leo  SPITZER  —1223—  "Sobre  un  nuevo  metodo  de  tipologia 
linguistica,"  AIL  (1944),  115-127.  Paul  MENZERATH 
—1224—  "Typology  of  Languages,"  J  AS,  XXII  (1950),  698- 
701,  is  the  most  radical  attempt  at  linking  stylistics  to  phonemics 
and  even  experimental  phonetics.  According  to  this  great  phone- 
tician, each  language  is  different  from  the  others  because  of  the 
preference  and  percentual  occurrence  of  three  monosyllabic 
form-types  based  on  the  sequence  of  phones :  1 )  vowel  +  2  con- 
sonants; 2)  consonant  +  vowel  and  consonant;  3)  2  consonants 
+  vowel.  While  the  Germanic  languages  prefer  type  one,  the 
Romance  languages  prefer  type  two ;  but  only  French  and  Span- 
ish are  radical  along  this  line,  Italian  having  a  propensity  for 
the  assymetrical  type  three.  The  percentual  possibility  of  form- 
ing consonantal  groups  is  at  the  same  time  in  French  15,  Spanish 
9,  Italian  8  (as  compared  to  German  19,  English  16). 

B.    Language  Characterization 
1.    French 

The  self-characterization  of  Frenchmen  in  designating  their 
language  as  clear,  elegant,  precise,  is  a  usual  feature  of  the  seven- 


218  Idiom  atology  1225-1228 

teenth  (Bouhours)  and  the  eighteenth  (Rivarol,  Buff  on)  cen- 
turies. At  the  very  end  of  the  nineteenth  century  these  cliche- 
forms  of  characterizing  French  were  for  the  first  time  shaken 
from  a  stylistic-aesthetical  viewpoint  by  Remy  DE  GOURMONT 
— 1225 —  Esthetique  de  la  langue  frangaise  (Paris:  Mercure  de 
France,  1899).  He  is  concerned  with  the  particularly  gram- 
maticized style  forms  of  French  which  he  calls  deformation, 
metaphore,  and  cliches;  and  as  a  litterateur,  he  comes  to  the 
very  reasonable  conclusion:  "Proscrit  de  la  litterature,  le  cliche 
a  son  emploi  legitime  dans  tout  le  reste"  (p.  316). 

A  sharper  view  in  discerning  truly  typical  French  features 
in  syntax  and  constructions  was  given  by  the  German  F.  STROH- 
MEYER  — 1226 —  Der  Stil  der  franzosischen  Sprache  (Berlin: 
Weidmann,  1924).  He  was  supported  in  the  enumeration  of 
unique  French  traits  by  E.  LEWY  —1227—  "Zur  Wesensgestalt 
des  Franzosischen,"  ZRP,  XLII  (1922),  71-75.  Lewy  gave  a 
characterization  of  French,  comparing  its  structure  to  that  of 
non-flectional  languages.  He  finds  in  French  "Uberdeutlichkeit," 
a  concept  which  links  together  structural  elements  of  the  same 
kind:  questions  like  ton  pere  est-il  arrive?,  prepositions  of  the 
type  aupres  de,  conjunctions  like  quoique,  and  demonstratives 
such  as  cet  homme-ci. 

The  first  characterization  of  the  French  language  on  a  larger 
scale  was  written  by  Eugen  LERCH  — 1228 —  "Franzosische 
Sprache  und  franzosische  Wesensart,"  in  Handbuch  der  Frank* 
reichkunde,  vol.  I  (Frankfurt:  Diesterweg,  1928),  78-146.  Lerch 
starts  with  fundamental  considerations :  Grammar,  he  says,  may 
be  divided  into  sections — namely  the  science  of  sound,  of  forms, 
of  words,  and  of  syntax.  Stylistics  is  within  the  framework  of 
grammar,  but  is  not  simply  a  fourth  division.  It  comprises  from 
the  standpoint  of  expressiveness:  a)  all  that  pertains  to  sound 
(for  example,  the  avoidance  or  non-avoidance  of  hiatus,  heaping 
up  of  consonants,  etc.),  b)  the  range  of  forms,  c)  word-creaUon 
(this  is  a  stylistic  criterion,  whether  a  language  favors  or  re- 
jects new  words),  d)  word  choice  (favoring  learned  or  popular, 
modern  or  archaic  words),  e)  the  change  of  meaning  (a  stylistic 
problem  is  the  direction  into  which  the  change  of  meaning 
points) .  Stylistics  thus  uses  exactly  the  same  material  as  gram- 
mar, but  from  a  different  viewpoint.  Then  Lerch  discusses  dif- 
ferent possible  types  of  word  order,  constructions  and  vocabulary 
for  expression  of  politeness,  emotion,  respect  for  the  listener, 


1229-1233  Language  Characterization  219 

reason  and  ratiocination,  sociability  and  the  like.  One  would 
say  the  style  of  the  French  language  has  something  to  do  with 
the  sociability  of  its  grammatical  system. 

The  stylistic  meaning  of  the  French  sound  system  is  taken 
into  consideration  by  Walter  von  WARTBURG  —1229—  "La 
structure  de  la  langue  fr.anc.aise  et  ses  fondements  historiques," 
in  his  Problemes  et  methodes  de  la  linguistique  (Paris :  Presses 
Universitaires,  1946),  162-177.  Von  Wartburg  tries  to  make 
clear  theoretically  why  it  is  possible  to  describe  a  petrified  lan- 
guage as  a  style.  He  uses  his  theory  of  the  inseparability  of 
descriptive  and  historic  linguistics: 

La  recherche  linguistique  ...  a  acquis  la  possibility  de  con- 
cevoir  la  langue  a  la  fois  comme  un  donne  et  comme  terme  d'une 
•evolution.    L'etre  et  le  devenir  dans  leur  connexite  et  leur  liaison 
intime,  voila  ce  qui  s'impose  a  notre  connaissance  (p.  162). 

W.  VON  WARTBURG  —1230—  Evolution  et  structure  de  la 
langue  francaise  (Leipzig:  Teubner,  1937;  Bern:  Francke,  1946), 
in  another  attempt  to  combine  the  historic  with  Saussure's  de- 
scriptive method,  characterized  French  as  static,  non-musical, 
rational,  nominal,  more  clear  than  profound  throughout  the 
centuries.  VlGGO  BR0NDAL  — 1231 —  Le  Frangais.  Langue 
abstraite  (Copenhague:  Munksgaard,  1936),  makes  the  follow- 
ing illuminating  points:  the  character  of  French  is  gaulois 
(vivacite,  irritabilite,  elan),  but  it  is  more  than  Gallic  nervous 
mobility;  French  reveals  also  gout,  scepticisme,  generalisation, 
clarte,  precision,  elegance ;  finally,  there  is  an  element  in  French 
which  is  neither  Celtic  nor  Romanic  nor  Germanic,  manifested 
in  "la  peur  du  mot  concret,"  in  "peu  de  composes,  mais  beaucoup 
de  formations  syntaxiques  dominees  de  la  preposition  abstraite 
de"  and  in  an  "insuffisance  de  la  derivation" ;  this  element  com- 
pels the  speaker  to  use  continuously :  ce,  chose,  il,  on,  Jaire,  que, 
de.  The  explanation  has  been  given  by  E.  Gilson:  "La  France 
sort  du  moyen-age  faite  a  l'image  et  a  la  ressemblance  de  la 
scolastique,  dont  elle  est  la  terre  d'election."  This  scholastic 
abstractness  distinguishes  French  from  the  "sens  artistique  im- 
mediat  de  Pitalien"  and  the  "Here  et  metallique  virilite  de  Tespa- 
gnol."  Andre  THeRIVE  —1232—  Le  frangais  langue  morte? 
(Paris:  Plon,  1923),  chapter  VIII:  "Les  styles  litteraires  d'au- 
jourd'hui"  (pp.  231-242)  emphasizes  the  versatility  of  French 
despite  all  its  abstract  and  petrified  aspects. 

Albert  DAUZAT  — 1233 —  Le  genie  de  la  langue  frangaise 


220  IDIOMATOLOGY  1 234-1238 

(Paris:  Payot,  1943),  considers  his  language  as  the  great  "ata- 
visme  celtique"  tinged  with  Latin  and  German  speech  habits, 
the  result  of  which  is  purity  of  diction,  the  logical  classification 
of  words  by  reasoning,  making  the  French  sentence  "une  archi- 
tecture intellectuelle"  which  can  be  broken  only  by  emotion, 
according  to  necessity.  Emotion  produces  a  whole  system  of 
strong  and  weak  forms,  and  shades  quantity  in  the  most  refined 
manner.  Georges  GALICHET  —1234 —  Physiologie  de  la  langue 
frangaise  (Paris:  Presses  universitaires,  1949),  contains  a  very 
valuable  little  chapter  "Caracteres  specifiques  de  la  langue  fran- 
gaise d'aujourd'hui."  Galichet  compares  the  French  language 
to  a  symphony  in  which  the  superposed  elements  of  sounds  (and 
even  graphic  signs  influencing  the  pronunciations)  and  forms 
provide  the  harmony,  whereas  the  melody  is  provided  by  the 
horizontal  coalescences  of  the  atoms  of  the  sentence  into  "mes- 
ures  moleculaires."  Governed  by  the  nominal  type  and  oxytonal 
accent,  this  melody  makes  French  fundamentally  different  from 
other  languages. 

E.  LERCH's  elaboration  of  his  earlier  article  (see  no.  1228) 
in  his  book  — 1235 —  Franzbsische  Sprache  und  Wesensart 
(Frankfurt:  Diesterweg,  1933),  stresses  semantics  as  a  mirror 
of  national  psychology.  Edouard  PICHON  — 1236 —  "Structure 
generate  du  frangais  d'aujourd'hui,"  RCC,  XXXVII  (1935)  I, 
139-158,  deduces  from  his  revolutionary  grammar  French  as  a 
language  with  few  "phonemes  posterieurs,"  in  which  "aucun 
phoneme  n'est  mange,"  in  which  liaison  guarantees  "la  contin- 
uity de  la  chaine  parlee,"  in  which  the  "article  partitif"  has  be- 
come tyrannic,  the  nominal  element  overwhelming,  the  victory  of 
the  epithet  preceding  the  substantive  imminent,  in  which  the 
imperfect  has  assumed  shades  of  meaning  different  from  that  of 
a  past,  in  which  a  near  future,  il  va  faire,  is  opposed  to  the  distant 
future,  il  fera,  and  in  which  learned  words  become  detrimental 
to  popular  ones.  This  characterization  is  somewhat  antiquated 
in  spite  of  its  modern  terminology,  and  it  only  repeats  what  W. 
MEYER-LUEBKE  had  attempted  previously  in  his  —1237— 
Einfuhrung  in  das  Studium  der  Romanischen  Sprachwissen- 
schaft  (Heidelberg:  Winter,  1920,  3rd  ed.),  translated  by  A. 
Castro  as:  Introduction  a  la  Linguistica  Romdnica  (Madrid, 
1926),  113-120.  A  pertinent  criticism  of  these  methods,  par- 
ticularly E.  Lerch's  is  given  by  M.  REGULA  —1238—  "Beson- 
derheiten  der  franzosischen  Syntax  und  Stilistik,"  ZFS,  LXIV 


1239-1241  Language  Characterization  221 

(1941),  257-83.  G.  GOUGENHEIM  —1239—  Langue  populaire 
et  langue  savante  en  ancien  frangais  (Paris:  Les  belles  lettres, 
1947),  is  the  first  serious  application  of  the  Bally  stylistics  to  Old 
French.  The  difference  in  the  use  of  prepositions  and  vocabulary 
(flum  versus  eve)  is  particularly  stressed  in  order  to  distinguish 
clerical,  literary  and  scientific  styles.  Truly  structural  charac- 
terizations were  made  by  Michaelson  (see  no.  1588)  and  Togeby 
(see  no.  1589). 

2.    French  Compared  to  German, 
Italian  and  Spanish 

Charles  Bally,  in  collaboration  with  the  German  students 
who  in  the  Geneva  summer  courses  translated  from  German  into 
French  under  his  supervision,  learned  that  only  comparison  can 
reveal  the  individual  style  features  of  a  language.  What  was 
pointed  out  in  each  of  Bally's  works  (cf.  chapter  II)  has  been 
condensed  in  Charles  BALLY  — 1240 —  Linguistique  generate 
et  linguistique  frangaise  (Berne:  Francke,  1944).  This  book 
contains  at  the  end  of  the  theoretical  disquisitions  good  charac- 
terizations of  French  and  German.  French  aspires  towards 
clarity :  J'entends  du  bruit  dans  la  cave ;  German  admits  of  mys- 
terious-motivations:  Es  rauscht  im  Keller;  French  is  exact,  as 
shown  by  the  synonyms :  chant,  chanson,  romance ;  German  has 
perspective,  as  shown  by  the  word  Lied  which  comprises  all 
these  nuances ;  French  is  matter-of-fact :  nostalgie,  mal  du  pays, 
jeune  fille;  German  is  poetical:  Sehnsucht,  Heimweh,  Mddchen. 
French  is  unpredictable  when  departing  from  its  static  attitude 
toward  the  use  of  endearing  suffixes:  frero£,  soeurette,  brune£, 
blondm ;  German  is  always  dynamic,  but  it  has  fixed  its  diminu- 
tive endings  chen  and  lein.  A.  MALBLANC  — 1241 —  Pour  une 
stylistique  comparee  du  frangais  et  de  Vallemand  (Paris:  Didier, 
1948),  is  the  most  useful  continuation  of  the  practical  stylistic 
work  of  Bally,  von  Wartburg,  Strohmeyer,  Lombard  and  Bru- 
neau.  Malblanc  opposes  concepts  and  expression  forms  in  styl- 
istic groupings  such  as  "verbes  images"  (hinein  gehen)  versus 
"verbes  signes"  (entrer) ;  "devenir"  (mir  wird  ubel)  versus 
"etre"  (Je  me  trouve  mal) ;  "subjectivisme  reprSsentatif"  (Im 
Radio  hort  man  oft)  versus  "animisme"  (La  radio  fait  entendre)  ; 
"adjectival  creation"  (ein  treffsicheres  Schiessen,  ein  zielbe- 
wusstes  Vorhaben)  versus  "adjectival  abstraction"  (un  tir  sur, 
un  dessein  sur) ;  "insistance"  (Als  er  zwolf  Jahre  alt  war)  ver- 
sus "economie"  (d  douze  ans). 


222  IDIOMATOLOGY  1242-1243 

Walter  von  WARTBURG  — 1242 —  La  posizione  della  lingua 
italiana  nel  mondo  neolatino  (Leipzig:  Keller,  1936;  Firenze: 
Sansoni,  1940),  gives  in  the  fourth  chapter  an  excellent  survey 
of  the  characteristic  differences  of  French  and  Italian :  an  oxy- 
tonal  language  with  a  wavy  sentence  line  versus  a  vivacious  pat- 
tern of  accentual  variety;  a  logical  linear  word-order  versus 
freedom  of  spontaneous  expression ;  grammaticized  moods  versus 
vivid  moods ;  frozen  patterns  versus  living  nuances  in  the  realm 
of  diminutives  and  synonyms ;  intellectuality  versus  picturesque- 
ness;  a  mathematically  constructed  fountain  versus  a  natural 
spring.  Eugen  LERCH  — 1243 —  "Spanische  Sprache  und 
Wesensart,"  in  Schellberg-Hartig,  Handbuch  der  Spanienkunde 
(Frankfurt:  Diesterweg,  1932),  147-200,  who  has  brought  to- 
gether the  most  important  differences  between  French  and  Span- 
ish, stresses  the  fact  that  the  French  places  the  subject  first,  even 
if  it  is  not  the  center  of  attraction,  so  that  the  object  is  not 
handled  from  the  viewpoint  of  an  impulsive  speaker.  Spanish 
emotion  anticipates  the  object:  Todo  lo  sufre,  todo  lo  cree,  todo 
lo  espera,  todo  lo  soporta.  The  Latin  version  of  this  eulogy  of 
charity  also  begins  in  this  way:  Omnia  suffert,  omnia  credit, 
etc.  But  French  has :  Elle  excuse  tout,  croit  tout,  espere  tout, 
etc. 

The  realism  of  the  Spanish  language  is  seen  especially  in  the 
fact  that  certain  fine  distinctions  are  retained  which  were  aban- 
doned by  the  French,  e.g.  the  so-called  prepositional  accusative 
which  distinguishes  the  animate  from  the  inanimate  (Busco  a 
mi  hermana.  Busco  mis  libros)  ;  or,  more  correctly,  it  distin- 
guishes a  fact  or  deed  marking  a  difference  if  applied  to  man  or 
to  a  thing  considered  as  just  a  thing ;  there  are  put  on  the  same 
level  however  man  and  a  thing  personified,  for  one  also  says 
Este  senor  busca  (un)  criado,  and  at  other  times  temer  al  agua. 
More  important  still  are  popular  metaphors  entirely  absent  from 
French  like  ojo  "arch  of  a  bridge,"  hoja  "blade,"  gata  "cloud  over 
a  mountain  ridge."  Furthermore,  there  is  that  curious  dativus 
ethicus  indirect  complement  of  intransitive  verbs:  Me  lo  s4  de 
memoria,  caerse,  irse,  dormirse;  the  particular  expressions  for 
beginning  and  ending  an  action :  dar  en,  and  acabar  de ;  visual- 
ization by  dynamic  verbs:  ahi  va  un  duro,  traigo  acabado  la 
obra;  still  more  convincingly:  madrugar,  amanecer,  anochecer; 
finally,  the  expression  of  contempt  by  individual  exaggeration : 


1244-1245  Language  Characterization  223 

No  tienen  ni  pizca  de  interes,  etc.    French  has  lost  or  never  has 
had  such  features. 

3.    Spanish  and  Arabic 

Am^rico  CASTRO  — 1244 —  Espana  en  su  historia  (Buenos 
Aires:  Losada,  1948),  particularly  "El  lenguaje,"  pp.  61-82, 
characterizes  Spanish  as  a  Romance  language  under  an  Islamic- 
Arabic  veil  of  seudo-morfosis,  mozarabismos  and  semantic  "ara- 
besques," i.e.  additional  meanings  of  the  Arabic  equivalents  per- 
meating the  Latin  words  of  only  one  meaning.  According  to 
this  principle,  ojo  meant  "source,"  sombra  "moral  protection," 
poridad  "secret,"  and  mesturero  "slanderer";  corredor  meant 
"looter,"  palacio  "ground  floor  of  a  house,"  "room,"  casa  "town," 
verguenza  "honor,"  also  "bounty."  The  words  are  accompanied 
by  non-occidental  concepts  and  locutions :  tiene  angel  "He  leads 
a  perfect  life,"  tomar  la  manana,  tomar  las  once  "to  have  a 
snag" ;  un  burro  cargado  de  letras  "a  pedantic  scholar  with  many 
shortcomings."  The  oriental  phrases  of  courtesy  are  inserted 
in  the  language :  Estd  a  su  disposicion ;  esta  es  su  casa ;  i  Usted 
gustal  Que  aproveche;  Si  Dios  quiere;  Ojald;  Ole;  A  la  paz  de 
Dios ;  besar  la  mano,  los  pies ;  Perdone  por  Dios ;  Bendita  sea  la 
madre  que  te  pario.  The  following  metaphors  were  and  are 
oriental :  caras  negras  como  la  pez,  como  la  olla ;  relucir  como  una 
espada;  ojos  como  candelas.  An  aspect  of  subjective  emotions 
considered  as  objective  reality  materializes  in  "centauric"  con- 
structions :  amanezco ;  anochezco  de  buen  humor ;  nos  ha  llovido ; 
me  estoy  helando ;  se  le  murio  un  hijo ;  the  religious  attitude  of 
the  name-giver  materializes  in  aspects  of  life  of  the  chosen 
patron.  This  reappears  according  to  Castro  in  typical  and  ex- 
clusively Spanish  names  like  Ascension,  Asuncion,  Dolores, 
Soledad,  Visitacion. 

Truly  poetical  creations  which  the  Spaniard  weaves  like  varia- 
tions around  a  given  motif  of  his  language,  seem  to  be  of  the 
same  Arabic  heritage.  They  were  revealed  by  Werner  BEIN- 
HAUER  — 1245 —  Spanischer  Sprachhumor.  Augenblicksbild- 
ungen,  KRA,  vol.  5  (1932) .  Beinhauer  fixes  his  attention  on  the 
sovereign  humorous  play  with  the  language  in  expressions  where 
the  visible  is  compared  to  the  moral :  Un  tio  mds  feo  que  pegar  a 
su  padre ;  or  where  the  peak  of  a  loving  compliment  to  a  woman 
is  an  abstraction :  Mi  locura,  mi  alboroto,  mi  arrebato  y  obce- 


224  Idiom  atology  1246-1250 

cation!  BEINHAUER  has  extended  these  investigations  to 
the  —1246—  "Piropos,"  VKR,  VII  (1934),  11-63,  and  "El 
piropo,"  Ensayos  y  estudios  II  (Madrid,  1940),  94-121  and  147- 
174.  Piropos  are  the  spontaneous  compliments  one  hears  in  the 
South,  los  gongorismos  del  pueblo.  Beinhauer  tried  from  time 
to  time  to  make  a  psychological-aesthetical  appraisal  of  such 
expressions,  whereas  he  collected  in  an  earlier  work  all  the 
idiomatic  expressions  current  in  Spain  and  explained  all  of  them 
psychologically:  Werner  BEINHAUER  — 1247 —  Spanische 
Umgangssprache  (Berlin:  Bonn,  1930).  The  most  typical  as- 
pect of  this  every  day  language  is  its  religious  metaphorism,  in- 
sufficiently studied,  however,  in  W.  BEINHAUER  —1248— 
"La  metafora  religiosa  en  el  espaiiol  hablado,"  VyV,  IV  (1946), 
138-155   (see  no.  1343). 

4.    Spanish  Compared  to  Italian,  Rumanian  and  Latin 

Spanish  was  used  as  a  means  of  clarifying  the  particular 
traits  of  Italian,  and  in  the  same  way  Italian  for  Spanish,  by 
Heinrich  LAUSBERG  —1249—  "Vergleichende  Charakteristik 
der  italienischen  und  der  spanischen  Schriftsprache,"  RF,  LX 
(1947),  106-122.  Lausberg  describes  Italian  as  melodious  and 
rhythmical,  gamboling,  pure  and  varied  in  long  and  short  vowels 
and  consonants,  sometimes  a  slow,  sometimes  a  fast  mountain 
brook;  Spanish  is  a  much  less  variegated  play  of  fewer  vowels 
and  consonants  of  equal,  medium  length  leading  to  an  objective 
monotony,  an  unswerving,  steadily  flowing  river.  Italian  is  the 
language  of  a  rich  scale  of  affricates  and  many  long  consonants, 
of  voiceless  and  voiced  stops;  Spanish  is  the  language  of  only 
one  palatal  affricate,  of  one  single  long  consonant  (rr)  and  with 
no  voiced  stops  at  all.  Italian  is  the  language  of  full  word 
bodies;  Spanish  one  of  reduced  word  bodies  (gomito;  codo). 
Italian  is  the  language  of  a  more  modern  Latin  vocabulary; 
Spanish  one  of  a  more  archaic  Latin  vocabulary.  This  historical 
criterion  is  visible  to  the  comparative  descriptive  analyst  of  the 
present  day  as  an  actual,  formal  difference  of  these  two  lan- 
guages. A  similar  comparison  was  made  by  Carlo  TAGLIA- 
VINI  — 1250 —  "Spagnuolo  e  Italiano,"  Le  lingue  estere  (Fi- 
renze,  Die,  1947) . 

Certain  features  (a  and  pe  before  personal  accusatives, 
a f flare  for  "to  find,"  etc.)  common  to  Spanish  and  Rumanian 


1251-1260  Language  Characterization  225 

inspired  the  dissertation  of  a  pupil  of  Walter  von  Wartburg, 
namely  Guenther  SCHOLZ  — 1251 —  Rumdnisch  und  Spanisch. 
Eine  vergleichende  Feststellung  der  Eigentiimlichkeiten  b eider 
Sprachen,  Diss.,  Leipzig,  1929.  But  Scholz  gives  practically  a 
whole  comparative  grammar,  vocabulary  and  some  commented 
comparative  texts.  Julio  CEJADOR  Y  FRAUCA  —1252— 
Fraseologia  o  estilistica  castellana  (Madrid,  1922-25),  4  vols., 
contrasts  in  the  introduction  Spanish  and  Classical  Latin  style 
with  excellent  examples. 

5.     Italian  Compared  to  German,  other 
Romance  Languages  and  Greek 

If  there  is  not  as  yet  a  characterization  of  Italian  per  se, 
there  is  at  least  a  rich  collection  of  stylistic  material  in  one  of 
the  pioneer  studies,  Leo  SPITZER  —1253 —  Italienische  Um- 
gangssprache  (Bonn:  Cohen,  1922).  Elements  of  Italian  idio- 
matology  are  scattered  throughout  different  books  such  as 
Bruno  MIGLIORINI  — 1254 —  Lingua  contemporanea  (Fi- 
renze:  Sansoni,  1938),  and  Mario  A.  PEI  —1255 —  The  Italian 
Language  (New  York:  Columbia  Univ.  Press,  1941).  Karl 
VOSSLER  compared  Italian  with  German  linguistic  attitudes 
— 1256 —  Lingua  e  nazione  in  Italia  e  in  Germania  (Firenze: 
Sansoni,  1936).  The  same  article  appeared  also  in  German,  as 
a  chapter  on  "Sprache  und  Nation,"  in  Aus  der  Romanischen 
Welt  (Miinchen,  1940).  Vittorio  SANTOLI  —1257—  "Die 
Struktur  der  italienischen  und  der  deutschen  Sprache,"  GRM, 
XXX  (1942),  106-117,  compares  Italian  symmetry  and  clarity 
with  the  German  manifoldness  and  complicated  organism  of  the 
sentence.  A  no  less  tentative  comparison  between  Italian  and 
the  other  neo-Latin  languages  comes  from  the  great  Italian 
linguist  M.  BARTOLI  —1258—  "Caratteri  fondamentali  della 
lingua  nazionale  italiana  e  delle  lingue  sorelle,"  MT,  I  (1936), 
70-106.  Gerhard  Rohlfs  collected  thought  forms  expressed  by 
Italian  language  forms  in  Southern  Italy  which  are  definitely 
inner  Greek  forms  of  thinking  in  — 1259 —  Griechischer  Sprach- 
geist  in  Siiditalien,  SB  AW,  V  (1944-46),  Miinchen,  1947. 

6.    Portuguese 

The  style  of  the  Portuguese  language  has  been  presented  in 
three  ways :  in  a  sketchy  and  amateurish  fashion  by  Henrique 
LAGDEN  — 1260 —  Do  genio  da  lingua  portuguesa  (Niter6i: 


226  Idiom  atology  1261-1265 

Diario  Oficial,  1940) ;  in  a  scientific-descriptive  form  according 
to  the  tenets  of  the  Prague  and  Copenhagen  schools  by  Holger 
STEN  — 1261 —  Les  particularity  de  la  langue  portugaise  (Tra- 
vaux  du  cercle  linguistique  de  Copenhague,  II,  1944) ;  and  in  a 
popular,  practical,  but  rather  ingenious  way  by  Montgomery 
MERRYMAN  — 1262 —  Portuguese.  A  Portrait  of  the  Language 
of  Brazil  (Rio  de  Janeiro :  Pongetti,  1945) .  Holger  Sten  in  his 
very  important  study  tries  to  characterize  the  Portuguese  lan- 
guage without  reducing  it  to  the  unity  that  a  radical  idealist  like 
Spitzer  attempted  with  his  slogan:  primitivisme  affectif.  This, 
says  Sten,  only  holds  true  for  the  propensity  to  use  diminutives, 
particularly  the  suffix  inho.  But  being  a  "materialist-idealist' ' 
who  would  not  reject  a  common  denominator  if  the  material 
really  yields  to  it,  he  simply  notes  unique  style  features  of  Portu- 
guese coming  from  all  domains  of  grammar :  the  phoneme  close 
o  in  relation  to  open  o,  which  in  Spanish  is  only  a  phonetic  varia- 
tion of  the  unique  phoneme  o,  the  metaphony,  the  infinitivo  pes- 
soal,  the  tmesis  in  the  use  of  verb  form  +  personal  pronoun 
(future  and  conditional),  the  plural  formations  aos,  aes,  oes 
belonging  to  one  singular  type  ao,  a  situation  which  makes  the 
explanation  of  synchrony  by  diachrony  imperative,  etc.  Merry- 
man  shows  the  decisive  features  of  Portuguese  from  its  gram- 
matical structure  to  its  slang  expressions  by  means  of  a  con- 
stant comparison  with  English,  whereby  not  only  the  idioms  be- 
come most  clear  but  also  "the  genius  of  the  Portuguese  tongue" 
(p.  197). 

Another  type  of  characterization  of  the  Portuguese  language 
based  on  historical-geographical  considerations  has  been  of- 
fered by  Fr.  SCHttRR  —1263—  "Die  Stellung  des  Portugies- 
ischen  in  der  Romania,"  with  outlook  from  language  to  litera- 
ture and  constant  comparison  with  the  more  "epic"  Spanish  in 
Portugal-Festschrift  der  Universitat  Koln  zu  den  portugiesischen 
Staatsfeiern  des  Jahres  19 U0  (Koln:  Pick,  1940),  107-118. 

7.    Rumanian.    Rhetoromance 

As  to  Rumanian,  different  attempts  at  language  characteriza- 
tion were  made  in  Rumania  itself,  one  by  lORGU  IORDAN 
— 1264 —  "De  quelques  traits  caracteristiques  du  roumain,"  in 
MB,  271-282,  with  stress  on  the  ease  of  derivation ;  the  other  by 
I.  BARBULESCU  —1265—  "L'individualit6  de  la  langue  rou- 


1266-1272  Language  Characterization  227 

maine  et  ses  elements  slaves-anciens,"  Arhiva,  XLIV  (1937), 
1-32;  177-208;  XLV  (1938),  1-32;  201-232;  XLVI  (1939),  1-16. 
Barbulescu  is  interested  in  the  idea  that  an  early  Paleoslovenian 
penetrates  and  merges  with  Rumanian  to  produce  the  strange 
vocalism  and  consonantism,  thus  making  the  whole  language 
very  different  from  the  other  Romance  languages,  and  quasi- 
Slavic  far  beyond  mere  vocabulary.  This  extraordinary  fact 
seems  to  be  the  reason  why  earlier  approaches,  even  on  the  part 
of  strictly  historical  grammarians,  found  so  much  interest  in 
descriptive  characterizations  of  this  language.  Mention  may  be 
made  also  of  M.  BARTOLI  — 1266 —  La  spiccata  individualitd 
delta  lingua  Romena  (Roma,  1927). 

Others  tried  an  indirect  characterization  by  circumscribing 
the  place  of  Rumanian  in  the  system  of  the  Romance  languages, 
as  did  Sextil  PUSCARIU  — 1267 —  Locul  limbii  Romdne  zntre 
limbile  Romanice  (Bucuresti,  1920).  Another  comparative  de- 
scriptive characterization  is  that  of  Wilhelm  MEYER-LttBKE 
— 1268 —  Rumanisch  und  Romanisch  (Academia  Romana.  Me- 
morile  sectiunii  literare.  Ser.  Ill,  torn.  V,  Bucuresti,  1930). 
Continuing  in  the  same  direction  Marius  VALKHOFF  — 1269 — 
Latijn,  Romaans,  Roemeens  (Amersfoort:  Valkhoff,  1932)  is 
interested  in  the  interplay  of  Latin,  Greek  and  Slavic  elements 
to  form  a  single  unit.  Finally,  there  is  a  grandiose  summary  of 
characteristic  features  of  the  Rumanian  language  as  to  pho- 
nemes, morphemes,  word-formation,  and  quite  new  aspects  of 
characterization  like  psychology  of  pronunciation  with  occa- 
sional comparisons  from  German,  French  and  other  languages, 
by  the  late  master  Sextil  PUSCARIU,  Limba  romana,  Vol.  I 
Privire  generala  (Bucuresti:  Fundatia  Regele  Carol  II,  1940), 
translated  as  — 1270 —  Die  rumanische  Sprache  (Leipzig:  Har- 
rassowitz,  1943),  by  Heinrich  Kuen  with  survey  of  features  on 
pp.  53-57.  Giulio  BERTONI  —1271—  "La  latinita  della  lingua 
Romena,,,  CN,  II  (1942),  63-66,  is  the  most  condensed  charac- 
terization of  Rumanian  despite  the  examples  included.  It  will 
be  surpassed  by  the  more  modern  characterization  of  Tatiana 
Fotitch  (Orbis,  I,  1952). 

Karl  JABERG  —1272—  "Considerations  sur  quelques  ca- 
racteres  generaux  du  Romanche,,,  MB,  283-292,  enumerates  five 
clear-cut  elements  characteristic  of  all  Rhetoromance  dialects 
together:  1)  the  disjunction  of  auxiliary  and  past  participle  (en 
a  Muster  serimnai=they  have  in  Disentis  gathered) ;  2)   the 


228  Idiom  atology  1273-1277 

combination  of  a  preposition  with  a  postponed  adverb  (pil  mund 
entuorn=2Lround  the  world=through  the  world  around) ;  3)  the 
precision  due  to  the  local  adverb  introducing  a  preposition 
(Laschad  Us  inf aunts  vegnir  nd  tiers  me=Let  the  children  come 
here  to  me)  ;  4)  the  separation  of  the  prefix  from  the  verb 
(prender  en  in  raarccm=prendre  une  ville,  serrar  giu  Us  egls= 
fermer  les  yeux) ;  5)  the  formation  of  transitive  and  factitive 
verbs,  even  from  nominal  stems  with  the  aid  of  the  suffix  entar 
(buentar,  to  give  to  drink;  bargientar,  faire  pleurer,  frestgentar, 
to  refresh) .  A  more  comprehensive  and  refined  characteriza- 
tion of  Romauntsch  by  Urban  T.  Holmes  is  in  print  (1952). 

8.    Latin  and  Romance 

Concerning  stylistic  features  of  Christian  Latin  and  of  every- 
day Latin,  the  two  being  virtually  Romance  languages  avant  la 
lettre,  there  are  two  important  studies:  one  is  the  scholarly 
characterization  of  the  late  Latin  koine  by  Joseph  SCHRIJNEN 
— 1273 —  Charakteristik  des  altchristlichen  Latein  (Nijmegen: 
Dekker,  1932),  with  the  distinctions  of  integral,  partial,  imme- 
diate and  mediate  "Christianisms" ;  the  other  is  a  survey  of  the 
everyday  features  of  Latin  in  J.  B.  HOFMANN  —1274—  La- 
teinische  Umgangssprache  (Heidelberg:  Winter,  1926;  2nd  ed. 
1936) .  Finally,  we  have  an  elaboration  of  the  identity  of  archaic 
and  poetic  elements  in  Latin  by  Einar  LOEFSTEDT  —1275— 
"Stilarten  und  Sprachschichten,"  in  his  book  Syntactica,  Zweiter 
Teil:  Syntaktisch-stilistische  Gesichtspunkte  und  Probleme 
(Lund:  Gleerup,  1933),  313-372. 

What  makes  the  Romance  languages  altogether  Latin  sisters 
and  conditions  their  common  style  was  stressed  by  M.  BAR- 
TOLI  — 1276 —  "Caratteri  fondamentali  delle  lingue  neolatine," 
AGI,  I  (1936),  97-133;  II  (1937),  1-20.  The  fact  that  language 
characterization  has  become  a  common  interest  can  already  be 
inferred  from  the  first  practical  textbook  evidencing  such  com- 
parative tendencies :  Oliver  W.  HE ATWOLE  —1277 —  A  Com- 
parative  Practical  Grammar  of  French,  Spanish  and  Italian 
(New  York:  Vanni,  1949) .  In  this  book  there  are  certain  chap- 
ters which  elicit  language  characterization  under  headings  like 
"pointing  out"  (void,  he  aqui,  ecco),  "polite  imperative,"  "ex- 
pression of  quantity"  (des  eglises,  unas  iglesias,  chiese),  "  *on'- 
reflexive-passive,"  "progressive  tenses"  (II  est  en  train  de  ira- 


1278-1279  Idiomatic  Semantics  229 

vailler,  estd  trabajando,  sta  lavorando) ,  "suffixes"   (fillette,  jo- 
vencita,  ragazzona) . 

C.     Idiomatic  Semantics 

According  to  the  teachings  of  Bally,  the  idioms  of  a  given 
language,  if  compared  to  those  of  another,  not  only  show  their 
originality  but  also  their  conditional  eligibility  for  affective 
usage.  Their  frozen  objective  meaning  appears  changeable  into 
different  degrees  of  emotion  and  picturesqueness  according  to 
the  reactivation  of  the  elements  of  the  idiomatic  compound  from 
sound  to  syntagma.  Looking  at  the  situation  from  another 
angle,  we  would  hold  with  S.  Ullmann,  Precis  de  semantique 
frangaise  (Berne,  1952,  p.  46),  that  "chaque  probleme  semanti- 
que aura  sa  contre-partie  sur  le  plan  du  style,"  whenever  in 
Hjelmslev's  terminology  (see  no.  1388)  we  are  confronted  with 
paradigmatic,  rather  than  syntagmatic  language,  i.e.  with  the 
living  language,  not  with  the  linguistic  system. 

1.  General  Observations 

Antonio  PANESSO  ROBLEDO  —1278—  "Sintaxis  y  es- 
tilo,"  BICC,  I  (1945),  579-586,  has  well  delineated  in  more  de- 
tailed fashion  than  Lerch  the  typical  cases  in  which  the  syntax 
of  the  general  language  constantly  undergoes  expressive-stylis- 
tic changes.  These  cases  concern  accent,  epithet,  word-position 
in  the  phrase  and  word-order  in  the  sentence,  ellipsis,  choice  be- 
tween verbal  and  nominal  style,  and  affective  sentence  rhythm. 
One  could  add  to  the  list  euphemism,  use  of  fixed  proverbial  and 
imaginative  phraseology,  choice  of  moods  and  tenses,  choice 
among  the  frozen  metaphors,  choice  between  directness  and  cir- 
cumlocution, between  speech  forms  of  reporting,  omission  and 
repetition,  coordination  and  subordination.  The  principle  of 
distinguishing  stylistics  from  syntax  is  choice,  not  creation.  The 
problems  to  be  envisaged  are  therefore  here  not  literary  but 
linguistic.  The  concern  is  the  virtual  semantic  implications  or 
the  stylistic  possibilities,  mainly  of  syntagmata. 

If  conversational  language  within  the  general  language  is 
something  like  a  hovering  meter  above  a  fixed  rhythmical  sys- 
tem, style  in  relation  to  syntax  is  a  "superlanguage,"  a  system 
of  subtleties  and  delicacies,  according  to  Armand  BOTTEQUIN 
— 1279 —  Subtilitis  et  dSlicatesses  de  langage  (Bruxelles:  Batide, 


230  Idiom  atology  1280-1286 

1946),  or  it  is  the  balanced  combination  of  typical  idioms  with 
typical  syntactical  expressions.  Using  idioms  and  syntagmas 
subjectively  makes  all  the  difference  between  banality  and  ex- 
pressivity according  to  J.  MAROUZEAU  —1280  —"Deux  as- 
pects de  la  langue  vulgaire,  langue  expressive  et  langue  banale," 
BSL,  XXVIII  (1927-28),  63-67. 

F.  REGULA  — 1281 —  "Beitrage  zur  syntaktischen  und 
stilistischen  Forschung,,,  ZFS,  LX  (1936),  129-145,  explains 
the  cases  where  there  are  one  or  more  possibilities  of  the  stylis- 
tic interpretation  of  a  syntagma.  It  depends  on  the  degree  of 
certainty  with  which  one  determines  the  transition  from  the 
functional  to  the  conscious  meaning.  His  examples  vary  from 
void  to  the  narrative  infinitive  (see  no.  1308) .  A  splendid  in- 
sight into  the  interplay  of  frozen  syntax  and  style  in  communi- 
cation as  well  as  in  artistic  speech  is  given  in  the  collected  studies 
of  Ch.  BALLY,  Elise  RICHTER,  A.  ALONSO  and  R.  LIDA 
— 1282 —  El  impresionismo  en  el  lenguaje  (Buenos  Aires,  1936). 

2.    Stylistics  of  Accent,  Melody  and 
Rhythm  of  the  Sentence 

J.  MAROUZEAU  et  A.  DAUZAT  —1283—  "Accent  d'in- 
sistance  affectif  et  intellectuel,"  FM,  II  (1934),  123-126,  differ 
in  this  subtle  point.  Marouzeau  admits  the  affective  accents  in 
single  words  like  enorme,  execrable,  adorable  versus  exlusif, 
immediat,  atone — that  means,  he  admits  subjective  and  objec- 
tive words.  Dauzat  would  rather  say  that  only  the  emotional 
or  intellectual  rhythm  of  a  sentence  decides  about  any  kind  of 
accent,  which  stylistically  is  never  fixed.  Marouzeau  had  but- 
tressed his  viewpoint  by  an  earlier  article:  J.  MAROUZEAU 
—1284-  "Accent  affectif  et  accent  intellectuel,"  BSL,  XXV 
(1924) ,  79-86.  Marouzeau  has  a  flair  for  perceiving  the  border- 
line between  the  meaningful  and  the  meaningless  in  language, 
a  trait  which  can  also  be  seen  in  his  article  — 1285 —  "L'usure 
des  onomatopees,"  FM,  III  (1935),  289-292.  What  was  a  stylis- 
tic onomatopoetic  creation  at  the  outset  can  be  preserved  only 
by  consciously  barring  a  word  from  natural  phonological  evo- 
lution. 

Karl  KNAUER  —1286—  "Franzosische  Sprache  als  Klang- 
kunst  und  als  Gegenstand  aesthetischer  Forschung,"  ZFS,  LXI 
(1937-38),  257-272,  puts  his  finger  on  the  crucial  question:  how 


1287-1291  Idiomatic  Semantics  231 

it  would  be  possible  to  transfer  methods  which  are  intelligible  as 
far  as  speech  is  concerned  to  language  as  frozen  speech.  He 
maintains  that  the  psychology  aesthetically  expressed  in  speech 
as  well  as  in  language  is  by  definition  a  racial  element.  The 
choice  an  individual  makes  for  his  personal  expression  is  made 
among  only  genuine  French  possibilities  behind  all  of  which 
must  loom  the  French  character.  This  fact  conditions  the  ac- 
ceptable or  the  non-acceptable  rhythmical  and  aesthetical  form. 
For  instance,  of  the  expressions  for  a  reddish  dress,  such  as 
une  robe  de  rose,  une  robe  rose,  une  robe  rosee,  une  robe  rouge 
comme  une  rose,  une  robe  rouge  de  rose,  une  robe  couleur  de  rose, 
une  robe  couleur  rose,  there  are  only  certain  ones  which  are 
truly  admissible — or  even  bearable — to  the  linguistic  commun- 
ity, namely  those  furthest  removed  from  theoretical  construc- 
tions and  closest  to  the  average  "terme  consacre."  Unfortu- 
nately Knauer  stops  where  this  truism  could  have  been  devel- 
oped. E.  LERCH  —1287—  "Typen  der  Wortstellung,"  in  Fest- 
schrift Karl  Vossler  (Heidelberg:  Winter,  1922),  85-106,  re- 
printed later  in  Handbuch  der  Frankreichkunde  I  (Frankfurt: 
Diesterweg,  1928),  79-91  (see  no.  1228),  is  one  of  the  most 
illuminating  introductions  to  the  stylistic  possibilities  coming 
primarily  from  rhythmical,  impressionistic,  logical,  polite  or  emo- 
tional word-order.  Lerch's  types  appear  somewhat  modified  in 
Max  KUTTNER  — 1288 —  Prinzipien  der  Wortstellung  im  Fran- 
zosischen  (Bielefeld:  Velhagen,  1929).  We  may  recall  here  that 
the  whole  problem  is  extensively  treated  by  A.  Blinkenberg, 
Uordre  des  mots  en  frangais  (no.  971).  E.  FROMAIGEAT 
— 1289 —  "Les  formes  de  Interrogation  en  francais  moderne," 
VR,  III  (1938),  1-47,  clarifies  the  stylistic  shades  due  to  word- 
order  and  intonation:  Allez-vous  bienl  would  reveal  too  little 
interest,  Est-ce  que  vous  allez  bien?  would  be  of  an  indiscrete 
intensity,  Vous  allez  bienl  is  polite;  but  these  nuances  exist  only 
because  the  linguistic  feeling  of  the  community  has  decided  thus, 
and  not  for  any  a  priori  reasons. 

L.  FOULET  —1290—  "^interrogation  et  l'ordre  des  mots 
en  anglais  et  en  francais"  R,  LII  (1926),  445-459,  explains  that 
a  style  of  intensity,  not  a  particular  word  rhythm,  has  given 
two  different  types  of  language,  French  and  English,  the  same 
development  since  the  seventeenth  century,  although  in  English 
this  procedure  appears  more  grammaticized.  Walter  SUCHIER 
concentrates  on  a  particular  angle  with  — 1291 —  "Wortstellung 


232  Idiom  atology  1292-1297 

und  Satzton  im  Franzosischen,"  ZFS,  LX  (1936),  69-92.  His 
conclusion  is  that  the  psychological  subject  at  the  end  of  the 
sentence  has  nothing  to  do  with  rhythmical  problems.  It  is  a 
mere  coincidence;  therefore  stylistic  changes  of  this  position 
are  always  possible  without  changing  the  functional  meaning. 

Petar  GUBERINA  — 1292 —  Valeur  logique  et  valeur  stylis- 
tique  des  propositions  complexes  en  frangais  et  en  serbo-croate, 
Diss.,  Zagreb,  1939,  follows  the  method  of  using  one's  mother 
tongue  to  elucidate  a  foreign  language.    In  both  languages 

Le  rapport  logique  est  senti  grace  au  contenu  des  idees  .  .  .,  la 
valeur  stylistique  se  degage  du  choix  des  constructions  ainsi  que 
de  l'emploi  des  differentes  valeurs  de  la  langue  parlee  (p.  339). 

Guberina  also  makes  the  statement  that  the  more  logical  a  sen- 
tence appears,  the  less  aesthetical  is  its  form.  M.  CARACOSTEA 
- — 1293 —  Die  Ausdruckswerte  der  rumdnischen  Sprache  (Jena : 
Gronau,  1939),  stresses  the  theory  that  certain  Rumanian  pho- 
nemes (i,  i)  are  invariably  linked  to  moods  like  melancholy, 
a  supposition  which  is  radically  rejected  by  A.  ROSETTI  — 1294 
—  "Sur  la  valeur  impressive  et  expressive  de  Ti  dans  la  poesie 
roumaine,"  BL,  VIII  (1940),  166-169. 

3.  Grammatical  Categories  Treated  Stylistically 
a)   Moods,  Tenses,  Aspects 

Hans  FLASCHE  —1295—  "Der  personliche  Infinitiv  im 
klassischen  Portugiesisch,,,  RF,  LX  (1947) ,  685-718,  explains  the 
greater  "stilistische  Variation,,  which  this  construction  repre- 
sents (particularly  in  Antonio  de  Vieira,  1608-1697)  as  compared 
with  the  ordinary  infinitive.  Whenever  there  is  a  possibility 
of  using  the  personal  infinitive  as  an  instrument  of  elegance 
mediating  between  a  nominal  and  a  conjunctional  construction, 
classical  Portuguese  prefers  it  to  the  normal  infinitive  as  well 
as  to  a  clause.  Flasche's  study  may  be  supplemented  by  Carin 
FAHLIN  — 1296 —  "Observation  sur  l'infinitif  de  narration  en 
portugais,"  SN,  XIX  (1947),  272-292.  The  infinitive  of  nar- 
ration in  French,  which  seemed  clarified  after  the  historical 
studies  of  Nurmela  and  Lombard,  elicited  a  fresh  approach  by 
Stig  ALMENBERG  — 1297 —  V ellipse  et  l'infinitif  de  narration 
en  frangais,  These,  Uppsala,  1942. 

The  name  of  Eugen  LERCH  will  ever  be  related  to  the  sty- 
listic reorientation  of  the  investigation  of  tenses  and  moods. 


1298-1304  Idiomatic  Semantics  233 

It  was  he  who,  together  with  Etienne  Lorck,  first  shed  deci- 
sive light  on  the  meaning  of  the  French  subjunctive  in  his  book 
— 1298 —  Die  Bedeutung  der  Modi  im  Franzosischen  (Leipzig: 
Reisland,  1919),  later  much  improved  in  his  Historische  Syntax, 
It  was  he  who  discovered  the  "picturesque"  imperfect  and  pre- 
sented it  in  his  article  — 1299 —  "Das  Imperfectum  als  Ausdruck 
der  lebhaften  Vorstellung,"  ZRP,  XLII  (1922),  311  ff.  and 
385  ff.,  in  which  he  clarified  the  first  stylistic  attempt  at  an 
interpretation  of  the  tenses  by  Etienne  LORCK  — 1300 — 
Passe  indefini,  impart  ait,  passe  defini  (Heidelberg:  Winter, 
1914) .  In  — 1301 —  Die  Verwendung  des  romanischen  Futurums 
als  Ausdruck  eines  sittlichen  Sollens  (Leipzig:  Reisland,  1919), 
Lerch,  answering  a  question  asked  by  Vossler,  gave  the  Tob- 
ler  tradition  in  syntax  the  decisive  psychological-stylistic  turn 
and  created  the  critical  basis  for  his  later  studies.  Lerch's  sty- 
listic treatment  attacked  by  G.  Rohlfs  appears  particularly  in- 
teresting since  the  Carteggio  Vossler-Croce  has  revealed  the  cir- 
cumstances which  led  to  the  formulation  of  this  topic. 

One  may  doubt  whether  without  Lerch's  work,  which  had  a 
decided  influence  on  the  French  philologists  connected  with 
the  periodical  he  Frangais  Moderne,  studies  by  Dutch,  French, 
Portuguese,  English,  and  American  scholars  in  the  same  direc- 
tion ever  would  have  been  undertaken.  After  Lerch,  there  ap- 
peared studies  like  Willem  VAN  DER  MOLEN  — 1302 —  Le 
subjonctif.  Sa  valeur  psychologique  et  son  emploi  dans  la  langue 
parlee  (Amsterdam,  1923).  Van  der  Molen  speaks  about  the 
regression  of  sentimental  aspects  vis-a-vis  objective,  logical 
aspects  in  modern  life.  With  the  disappearance  of  the  forces 
informing  the  subjunctive,  the  speaker  will  have  to  eliminate 
by  logical  consequence  the  subjunctive  itself.  This  study  of  a 
mood  was  followed  by  a  study  of  a  tense  by  H.  YVON  — 1303 — 
Uimparfait  de  Vindicatif  en  frangais  (Paris:  Belles  Lettres, 
1926). 

Since  Lerch  has  shaken  the  concept  of  a  standard-imperfect, 
stylistic  interpreters  of  tenses  went  so  far  as  to  deny  the  possi- 
bility of  a  general  grammar  incorporating  a  tense  system  and 
to  deprive  entirely  the  modern  French  imperfect  of  its  tense 
character.  Louis  BRUN-LALOIRE  — 1304 —  "L'imparfait  de 
l'indicatif  est-il  un  tens?,  RPhF,  XLI  (1929),  56-86,  declares: 
"Ce  n'est  plus  un  'tens'  .  .  .,  mais  une  simultaneity  immobilisee 


234  IDIOMATOLOGY  1305-1312 

avec  une  duree  immobile"  (p.  72)  and  D.  BARBELENET 
_1305—  "Sur  les  tens  en  ais  du  francjiis,"  RPhF,  XLI  (1929), 
87-116,  adds  as  a  statement  valid  for  all  tenses  of  modern 
French:  "Chaque  forme  temporelle  exprime  un  aspect  et  im- 
plique  une  valeur  affective"  (p.  117).  Ch.  J.  MILLON  — 1306-- 
"Le  passe  simple  chez  les  romanciers  et  les  dramaturges,"  FM, 
IV  (1936),  239-248,  tries  to  prove  that  the  style  of  the  spoken 
language  avoids  the  passe  simple',  wherefore,  dramatists,  fear- 
ing the  reaction  of  the  actors  as  well  as  the  shock  of  the  public 
upon  hearing  forms  of  this  tense  uttered  on  the  stage,  shrink 
from  it;  novelists,  however,  fearing  no  immediate  criticism, 
continue  to  use  it  as  a  narrative  tense.  A  similar  study  was  made 
by  E.  de  ULLMANN  —1307—  "Le  passe  defini  et  l'imparfait 
du  subjonctif  dans  le  theatre  contemporain,"  FM,  VI  (1938), 
347-358. 

F.  REGULA  — 1308 —  "Beitrage  zur  syntaktischen  und  stilis- 
tischen  Forschung,"  ZFS,  LX  (1936),  129-145,  distinguishes 
manifold  functions  of  the  tenses.  To  him  there  is  not  only  a 
picturesque  imperfect,  but  also  a  rhetorical  one,  with  which  births 
and  deaths  of  heroes  are  announced;  there  is  not  only  a  future 
of  command,  but  also  one  of  probability,  one  of  necessity  and 
a  polemical  future  (see  no.  1281). 

Two  disparate  characteristics,  namely  a  lack  of  psychologi- 
cal penetration  and  the  listing  of  extremely  valuable  material, 
are  the  main  features  of  a  tense  study  in  Old  French :  Paul- 
Louis  FAYE  —1309 —  "L'equivalence  passe  defini-imparfait 
en  ancien  francais,"  UCS,  XX  (1933) ,  267-309.  While  E.  ALAR- 
COS  LLORACH,  —1310—  "Perfecto  simple  y  compuesto  en 
Espafiol,"  RFE,  XXXI  (1947),  108-139,  studied  the  stylistic 
functions  of  these  two  tenses  in  Modern  Spanish,  Manuel  de 
PAIVA  BOLeO  fixed  the  stylistic  functions  of  Portuguese 
tenses  and  moods:  — 1311 —  Tempos  e  modos  em  portugues. 
contribugao  para  o  estudo  da  sintaxe  e  da  estilistica  do  verbo, 
BFP,  III  (1934),  15-36.  He  has  investigated  particularly  the 
Portuguese  past  tenses  which  he  found  stylistically  different 
from  those  of  the  other  Romance  languages,  in  — 1312 —  O 
perfeito  e  o  preterito  em  portugues  em  confronto  com  as  outras 
linguas  romdnicas.  Estudo  de  cardcter  sintactico-estilistico 
(Coimbra:  Bibliotheca  da  Universidade,  1937).  Portuguese 
alone  has  a  psychological  and  aesthetical  superiority  over  all 


1313-1319  Idiomatic  Semantics  235 

the  other  Romance  and  Germanic  languages  in  that  it  always 
distinguishes  clearly  between  a  perfect  and  a  preterite.  This 
cannot  be  explained  by  historical-philological  reasons,  but  re- 
veals perhaps,  as  far  as  the  preterite  is  concerned,  "urn  de- 
brucar  calmo  e  saudoso  sobre  o  passado"  (p.  114),  says  the 
mentalistic  interpreter. 

b)   Article,  Diminutive,  Pronoun,  Conjunction, 
Adverb,  Suffix 

Amado  ALONSO's  study  — 1313 —  El  articulo  y  el  diminu- 
tivo  (Universidad  de  Chile,  1937),  uniting  his  previous 
sketches  — 1314 —  "Estilistica  y  gramatica  del  articulo  en 
espanol,"  VKR,  VI  (1932),  189-209,  and  —1315—  "Nocion, 
emotion,  action,  y  fantasia  en  los  diminutives,''  VKR,  VIII, 
(1934),  104-125,  reveals  the  fact  that  the  same  suppression  of 
the  article  can  mean  very  different  things:  it  signifies  an 
evaluation  in  "moza  tan  hermosa!,"  a  visualization  in  "casa 
con  dos  puertas  .  .  .,"  a  dramatization  in  "mujer  que  no  resiste 
la  mirada."  A  diminutive  can  be  just  notional  (una  cajita 
pequenita) ,  emotional  (ibamos  tan  arrimaditos) ,  polite 
(vamos  hablar  de  un  asuntillo),  or  eloquently  decided  (de 
rodillitas  y  a  mis  pies.  Estd  dicho!). 

The  endearing  and  pejorative  function  of  a  possessive  in 
French  as  well  as  in  English  and  the  Finno-Ugrian  languages 
was  studied  by  Leo  SPITZER  — 1316 —  "Le  pronom  possessif 
devant  un  hypocoristique,"  REI,  I  (1939),  fasc.  2-4,  5-17.  M. 
REGULA  —1317—  "tiber  den  Stilwert  von  'C'est  .  .  .  qui'  in 
primarem  Affekteinsatz,"  ZFS,  LV  (1932),  331-333,  ap- 
proaches the  stylistics  of  the  periphrastic  use  of  the  relative 
pronoun,  generally  included  in  onomasiological  studies  of  the 
expressions  of  insistence.  Leo  SPITZER  has  cleared  up  the 
narrative  and  distinctive  functions  of  the  Spanish  conjunc- 
tion 'que'  in  — 1318 —  "Notas  sintactico-estilisticas  a  proposito 
del  espafiol  'que',"  RFH,  IV  (1942),  105-126,  and  253-265.  J. 
BYCK  — 1319 —  "Etudes  de  syntaxe  et  de  stylistique  rou- 
maines,"  BL,  VII  (1939),  140-154,  presents  as  a  stylistic  item 
the  use  of  "ca  acela"  as  a  qualificative  with  the  meaning  of 
extraordinaire,  a  typical  case  of  an  affective  isolation  of  a 
comparative  phrase  comparable  to  the  earlier  Rumanian  devel- 
opment of  talis  (r.  tare)  to  the  meaning  of  "strong"  coming 


236  Idiom  atology  1320-1326 

from  the  affective  isolation  of  an  element  of  a  consecutive  sen- 
tence. Alexis  FRANQOIS  — 1320 —  La  desinence  'ance'  dans 
le  vocabulaire  frangais,  une  peddle  de  la  langue  et  du  style  (Ge- 
neve-Lille, 1950),  is  one  of  the  rare  studies  comprising  at  the 
same  time  colloquial  and  literary-aesthetic  phenomena.  It  gives 
to  a  versatile  ending  a  stylistic  suffix  character.  The  correct- 
ness of  the  material  may  be  checked  with  Yakov  Malkiel,  "De- 
velopment of  the  Latin  Suffixes — antia  and  entia — in  the  Ro- 
mance Languages,"  UCP,  I  (no.  4,  1945),  41-188,  and  the  pro- 
pensity of  modern  literature  for  these  suffixes  in  Jacques  Plow- 
ert,  Petit  glossaire  pour  servir  a  V intelligence  des  auteurs  de- 
cadents et  symbolistes  (Paris:  Vannier,  1888). 

4.    Stylistics  of  the  Single  Word  and  of  the  Locution 
a)     Word-Repetition  and  other  Word-Implications 

LEO  SPITZER  —1321—  "Au  sujet  de  la  repetition  distinctive,,, 
FM,  IV  (1936),  129-135,  recognizes  the  stylistic  meaning  of  ex- 
pressions like  beret-beret,  theatre-theatre  versus  beret-chap  can, 
theatre-cinema  as  an  emphatic  exaggeration.  This  article  is  a 
correction  of  a  previous  "epic"  interpretation  of  the  same  word 
type  by  G.  GOUGENHEIM  —1322—  "La  repetition  descriptive," 
FM,  III  (1935),  545-546.  H.  HULTENBERG  —1323—  Le  ren- 
f  or  cement  du  sens  des  adjectifs  et  des  adverb  es  dans  les  langues 
romanes,  Diss.,  Uppsala,  1903,  one  of  the  earliest  studies  of  this 
kind,  explains  how  a  second  adjective  determining  the  first  may 
have  the  status  and  meaning  of  a  comparison.  This  problem 
interested  also  Leo  SPITZER  —1324—  "Asyndetische  Vergleiche 
im  Italienischen  und  Rumanischen,"  in  Stilstudien,  I  (Munchen, 
1928),  12-18.  Other  articles  in  this  category  were  typical  of 
Leo  Spitzer's  earlier  method  of  which  there  may  be  mentioned 
all  the  — 1325 —  Aufsatze  zur  romanischen  Syntax  und  Stilistik 
(Halle:  Niemeyer,  1918),  and  — 1326 —  Vber  einige  Worter  der 
Liebessprache  (Leipzig:  Reisland,  1919). 

b)     Phraseology  and  Metaphorism 

Phraseology  gives  the  sentence  a  particular  stylistic  flavor. 
In  the  scholar  it  provokes  speculations  as  to  its  traditional 
Latin  or  individually  creative  role  in  a  particular  Romance  lan- 
guage. By  a  comparison  with  parallel  idioms  and  phraseological 
expressions  in  other  Romance  languages,  not  only  the  origin  but 
even  the   style  value   of  an   idiom   can   be   established.     The 


1327-1333  Idiomatic  Semantics  237 

first  to  have  seen  the  important  problem  of  continuity  vs.  inter- 
ruption in  Latin  and  Romance  phraseology  as  the  very  core  of 
idiomatic  elements  was  Max  Leopold  WAGNER.  He  has  given 
this  type  of  study  an  excellent  inauguration  with  his  article 
— 1327 —  "t)ber  die  Unterlagen  der  romanischen  Phraseologie. 
Im  Anschluss  an  des  Petronius'  Satyricon,"  VKR,  VI  (1933), 
1-26,  supplemented  by  lORGU  IORDAN  —1328—  "Zur  roman- 
ischen Phraseologies  VKR,  IX  (1936),  143-146.  Wagner's  meth- 
od is  an  ingenious  one.  On  the  one  hand,  he  looks  in  Romance 
dialects  for  parallels  to  Latin  locutions  like  "sibi  asciam  in  crus 
impingere;"  on  the  other,  he  postulates  a  Latin  locution  from 
close  correspondences  of  Romance  locutions  like  Italian  "cucirsi 
la  bocca",  Spanish  "coserse  la  boca",  French  "bouche  cousue". 

With  an  almost  exhaustive  list  of  examples,  J.  MORAWSKI 
has  analyzed  — 1329 —  "Les  formules  alliterees  de  la  langue  es- 
pagnole,"  RFE,  XXIV  (1937),  121-161.  They  clearly  depend 
partly  on  rhythmical  effects,  partly  on  other  conditions.  There 
is  left  a  wide  field  for  exact  stylistic  interpretation.  F.  WIDMER 
— 1330 —  Volkstitmliche  Vergleiche  im  Franzosischen  nach  dem 
Typus  'rouge  comme  un  coq,'  Diss.,  Basel,  1929,  collects  fine  ex- 
amples for  idiomatic  comparisons  varied  according  to  dialects. 

Hans  Wilhelm  KLEIN  — 1331 —  Die  volkstilmlichen  sprich- 
wortlichen  Vergleiche  im  Lateinischen  und  in  den  romanischen 
Sprachen,  Diss.,  Wlirzburg,  1936,  follows  the  suggestion  of  M.  L. 
Wagner  in  looking  for  connections  between  Romance  and  popular 
Latin  phraseology.  Based  on  the  limited  material  of  comparisons, 
Klein  finds  many  Latin  expressions  of  this  kind  preserved  in 
Italian,  Spanish  and  Portuguese,  fewer  in  French  and  Rumanian. 
The  new  creations  of  the  neo-Latin  languages  admit  some  char- 
acterization of  more  or  less  realism,  euphemism,  and  the  like. 

Walter  GOTTSCHALK  was  the  first  to  work  along  such  lines 
on  a  larger  scale  in  — 1332 —  Die  sprichivbrtlichen  Redensarten 
der  franzosischen  Sprache.  Ein  Beitrag  zur  franzosischen  Stilis- 
tik,  Kultur-und  Wesenskunde  (Heidelberg:  Winter,  1930).  He 
continued  his  studies  with  — 1333 —  Die  bildhaften  Sprichworter 
der  Romanen,  3  vols.  (Heidelberg:  Winter,  1935-38).  Although 
Gottschalk  himself  is  extremely  cautious  and  very  reluctant  to 
offer  interpretations,  later  scholars  can  do  much  with  his  ex- 
cellent material.  Gottschalk  gives  good  hints,  calling  our  attention 
to  the  cynical  Provencal  proverb:  "Quand  ^ai  plou,  qai  bagno", 
French :  "Quand  il  pleut,  on  se  mouille",  a  locution  opposed  to  the 
more  solidary  Spanish:  "Quando  llueve,  todos  nos  mojamos",  and 


238  Idiom  atology  1334-1339 

the  cautious  Italian  proverb  "Chi  sta  a  casa  non  si  bagna"  (I,  13- 
14) .  The  main  part  of  Gottschalk's  book  starts  with  images  taken 
from  nature  and  from  human  life  as  such,  two  domains  which 
lead  to  quite  different  proverbs,  as  far  as  symbolic  meaning  is 
concerned,  in  the  different  parts  of  Romania ;  conversely,  a  rich 
index  enables  the  reader  with  onomatological  rather  than  seman- 
tic interests  to  classify  the  material  according  to  the  meaning  of 
proverbial  groups  independent  of  the  images.  Gottschalk's  work 
is  synchronic  and  not  particularly  interested  in  the  differentia- 
tion of  original  or  borrowed  types. 

Latin  is  often  not  the  source,  but  only  a  crossroad  and  market 
place  for  an  older  locution  coming  from  Greek  or  elsewhere.  This 
problem  inspired  0.  J.  TALLGREN-TUULIO  to  point  out  how 
complicated  such  an  investigation  becomes  in  his  — 1334 —  "Lo- 
cutions figurees  calquees  et  non  calquees.  Essai  de  classification 
pour  une  serie  de  langues  litteraires,"  MSN,  IX  (1932),  280-324. 
Tallgren-Tuulio  shows  that  expressions  like  Italian  "scritto  as- 
ciutto"  and  French  "secheresse  de  style"  certainly  still  represent 
the  Greek  xerasynthesis  across  the  Latin  arida  synthesis,  whereas 
for  the  Spanish  "hablar  a  tontas  y  a  locas",  corresponding  to  the 
French  "parler  a  tort  et  a  travers",  it  is  impossible  to  iind  a  com- 
mon Latin  source.  It  remains  hazardous  to  draw  from  such  lo- 
cutions psychological  consequences  for  a  national  style  in  lang- 
uage. 

Max  Leopold  WAGNER  —1335—  "Uber  den  verblumten 
Ausdruck  im  Spanischen,"  ZRP,  XLIX  (1929),  1-26,  collects 
valuable  examples  of  the  "veiling"  type :  naranja  for  nada,  paler- 
mo  for  pala,  which  type  is  always  incorporated  in  locutions  like 
"un  regimiento  de  Pavia"  =  "una  manada  de  pavos".  He  follows 
A.  TOBLER  —1336—  "Der  verbliimte  Ausdruck  und  das  Wort- 
spiel  in  altfranzosischer  Rede,"  in  Vermischte  Beitrage  zur  fran- 
zosischen Grammatik  (Berlin,  1906),  II,  211-263.  Tobler  wanted 
to  make  such  expressions  a  criterion  for  national  psychology. 
Irmgard  SCHULTZ  —1337—  "Metaphern  der  Form  im  bildhaf- 
ten  franzosischen  Argot,"  VKR,  XIV  (1941),  244-313,  impresses 
the  reader  by  her  extremely  rich,  partly  euphemistic,  partly  poetic 
material  for  the  metaphorical  designation  of  the  parts  of  the 
body,  but  only  as  far  as  form-analogy  is  concerned.  Other  aspects 
were  treated  in  the  same  writer's  — 1338 —  Bildhaftigkeit  im 
franzosischen  Argot,  GBRP,  XXVI  (1936).  Lazare  SAINEAN 
— 1339 —  La  creation  metaphorique  en  frangais  et  en  roman. 
Images  tires  du  monde  des  animaux  domestiques,  BZRP,  I  and  X 


1340-1344  Idiomatic  Onomatology  239 

(1905  and  1907),  gives  all  stylistic  approaches  of  French  to  chat, 
chien  and  cachon  in  metaphorical,  hypocoristic  and  epithetical 
usages,  stressing  the  popular  irony  in  language  and  putting  many 
expressions  on  a  comparative-stylistic  basis  with  other  Romance 
language  material. 

Rodolfo  OROZ  — 1340 —  "El  uso  metaforico  de  nombres  de 
animales  en  el  lenguaje  familar  y  vulgar  chileno,"  Atenea, 
XXXVII  (1932),  1-30,  discusses  animal  metaphors  designating 
stupidity  (pavo,  borrico),  ugliness  (mono,  sapo),  bigness  (vaca, 
caballo),  delicacy  (lagartija,  jirafa),  brutality  (fiera),  shrewd- 
ness (zorro,  lince,  tigre),  talent  (gallo,  liebre),  vivacity  (cabra, 
potrillo),  filth  (cochino,  puerco),  youth  (cabrito,  polio),  docility 
(buey,  cordero),  cowardice  (gallina),  fecundity  (coneja),  etc.  A 
more  folkloric  turn  is  given  to  the  study  of  metaphor  in  P.  PREIS 
— 1341 —  Die  Animalisierung  von  Gegenstdnden  in  den  Meta- 
phern  der  spanischen  Sprache,  Diss.,  Tubingen,  1932.  Ambrosio 
Rabanales  ORTIZ  — 1342 —  "Uso  tropologico,  en  el  lenguaje 
chileno,  de  nombres  del  reino  vegetal,"  BFCh,  V  (1947-49),  137- 
262,  is  a  rich  study  in  metaphor  with  helpful  indexes  and  an 
attempt  at  an  explanation  of  each  of  the  tropes.  Werner  BEIN- 
HAUER  —1343 —  "La  metafora  religiosa  en  el  espafiol  hablado," 
VyV,  IV  (1946),  138-155  (no.  1248),  tries  to  prove  stylistically 
the  harmony  between  things  earthly  and  divine  in  the  Spanish 
mind,  and  quotes  examples  like  the  following:  "hemos  trabajado 
mas  que  Dios,"  "me  aburro  mas  que  Dios,"  "estoy  sudando  mas 
que  Dios,"  "uno  lleva  las  unas  muy  largas  'como  el  Cristo  de 
Vargas'.' 


,y  yi 


D.  Idiomatic  Onomatology 

The  stylistic  implications  in  syntax  become  particularly  clear 
with  the  question  as  to  how,  by  what  means  and  by  how  many 
means  an  idea  or  a  tendency  may  be  expressed  grammatically. 

Leo  SPITZER  —1344—  "Fait-accompli  Darstellung  im  Span- 
ischen," in  Stilstudien,  I:  Sprachstile  (Munchen:  Hueber,  1928), 
258-294,  has  made  a  point  of  the  fact  that  the  Spanish  language 
uses  expressions  like  me  voy  y  se  acabo;  claro  estd;  me  consta; 
yo  me  se;  este  tranvia  le  dejard  en  la  plaza;  Men  te  lo  tienes  mere- 
cido,  to  anticipate  an  action  not  yet  achieved,  while  other  lang- 
uages lack  this  intensity  of  vision  and  are  satisfied  with  an  ex- 
pression more  in  conformity  with  the  bare  action.  This  visionary 
anticipation  appears  normal  to  a  quixotic  imagination. 


240  Idiom  atology  1345-1350 

G.  GUILLAUME  —1345—  "Particularisation  et  generalisa- 
tion dans  le  systeme  des  articles  francais,"  FM,  XII  (1944),  89- 
107,  explains  the  fundamental  difference  in  stylistic  meaning  be- 
tween the  articles  un  and  le.  A.  DAUZAT  — 1346 —  "L' expression 
de  l'intensite  par  la  comparaison,"  FM,  XIII  (1945),  169-186, 
gives  illuminating  lists  of  expressions  which  correspond  to  the 
will  to  express  intensity  by  substantives,  adjectives  or  verbs  with 
symbolic  implications. 

M.  REGULA,  with  good  ideas,  but  in  an  extremely  pedantic 
jargon  reminiscent  of  the  Damourette-Pichon  type,  enumerates 
the  different  types  of  affective  circumlocutions  for  action,  event, 
fact,  etc,  under  the  title  — 1347 —  "Die  Ausdrucksmethoden  im 
Franzosischen  fur  'Heraushebungen'  von  Pradikatskomponenten. 
Eine  gegenstandstheoretische,  dynamologische  und  stilistische 
Studie,"  ZFS,  LVII   (1933),  187-201. 

Marie-Louise  MUELLER-HAUSER  —1348—  La  mise  en  re- 
lief d'nne  idee  en  {frangais  moderne  (Geneve :  Droz,  1943) ,  proves 
that  the  emphasis  of  an  idea  in  conversational  language  has  a 
great  variety  of  stylistic  expressions;  for  example,  syllabic  sep- 
aration: "com-ple-te-ment ;"  phonetic  pause:  "un  coup  //  epou- 
vantable" ;  repetition :  "mais  non,  mais  non ;"  enforced  repeti- 
tion:  "C'est  la,  et  seulement  la  qu'on  trouve.  .  . ;"  repetition  in  dia- 
logue: "Hier  soir  justement?  -  Justement  hier  soir;"  abnormal 
word  order:  "Vingt  minutes,  on  est  reste;"  persistent  intercala- 
tions: "J'ajoute — notez  ceci — qu'elle  avait  la  musique  en  hor- 
reur;"  or,  interjection:  "par  exemple;"  the  segmentation  of  the 
sentence:  "La  politique,  moi,  tu  sais,  je  m'en  fiche;"  the  use  of 
"c'est  .  .  .  qui;"  and  the  ellipse:  "II  a  un  charme.  .  ."  (see  nos. 
1590-92). 

J.  MAROUZEAU  —1349—  "Quelques  aspects  du  relief  dans 
1'enonce,"  FM,  XIII  (1945),  161-168,  considers  properly  "l'etude 
de  Fexpressivite.  .  .une  des  taches  essentielles  de  la  stylistique," 
but  he  gives  no  evidence  of  knowing  the  investigation  of  Mme 
Mueller-Hauser  (cf.  1348).  Max  PETER  —1350—  Uber  einige 
negative  Prdfixe  im  modernen  Franzosischen  als  Ausdrucksmittel 
filr  die  Gegensatzbildung  (Bern:  Francke,  1949),  does  a  real 
stylistic  analysis  in  his  commentaries  on  the  more  or  less  positive 
or  negative  affective  tinge.  It  is  emotion  that  decides  on  the  choice 
of  non-,  sans-,  de-,  anti-,  in-,  in  modern  French  conversational 
language  for  expressing  contrasts.  Peter  adds  to  the  stereotyped 
words  found  in  dictionaries  others  collected  from  all  types  of 


1351-1353  Idiomatic  Onomatology  241 

sources  which  are  not  petrified  and  where  the  choice  of  the  pre- 
fix necessarily  has  stylistic  implications  (non-Europeen,  non- 
mystique,  non-souscripteur;  le  sans-scravate,  sans-guide,  sans- 
peau  (une  poire);  delabyrinther  un  sujet,  deveine,  de  fortune; 
anti-france,  antisymbolisme,  antitradition) .  Comparisons  with 
the  situation  in  modern  German  and  the  establishment  of  word- 
areas  of  contrasts  where  prepositions  are  not  decisive  make  the 
study  particularly  interesting. 

G.  GUILLAUME  — 1351 —  "Immanence  et  transcendence 
dans  la  categorie  du  verbe.  Theorie  psychologique  de  l'aspect," 
in  Psychologie  du  langage  (Paris:  Alcan,  1933),  355-374,  goes 
into  strictly  philosophical  considerations : 

Le  temps  epouse  les  formes  du  verbe,  .  .  .  le  f utur  et  Taoriste, 
expressions  particularisms  du  temps  transcendant,  le  present  et 
Timparfait,  expressions  particularisms  du  temps  immanent.  .  .  . 

The  particular  speculations  of  Bergson  concerning  actual  and 
psychological  time  find  a  stylistic  repercussion  in  J.  BUFFIN 
— 1352 —  Remarques  sur  les  moyens  d' expression  de  la  duree  et 
du  temps  en  frangais  (Paris:  Presses  Universitaires,  1925).  A 
truly  idiomatic  study  is  Archer  TAYLOR  — 1353 —  "Locutions 
for  'Never'  ,"  RPh,  II  (1948-49),  103-134,  going  far  beyond  the 
Romance  field.  This  article  found  criticism  and  supplementation 
by  Heinz  Kroll,  "A  proposito  de  locugoes  para  'nunca'.  Notas  a 
margem  de  um  artigo  de  A.  Taylor,"  RPF,  III  (1949-50),  174- 
185. 


CHAPTER  XI 

Theory  of  Style 

Some  of  the  practical  style  analysts  in  the  field  of  Romance 
languages  and  literatures  felt  impelled  to  say  also  something  a- 
bout  the  theoretical  problem  of  style  and  style  investigation. 
Writers  and  critics  in  the  field  of  the  Romance  literatures,  too, 
being  conscious  of  the  work  proper  to  their  field,  have  often  made 
pertinent  remarks  on  the  essence  of  style.  Their  casual  remarks 
have  been  collected  by  Sister  Clare  Eileen  Craddock,  Style 
Theories  as  found  in  Stylistic  Studies  of  Romance  Scholars  (1900- 
1950),  Diss.,  Catholic  University,  Washington,  D.  C,  1952. 
Aestheticians  outside  the  Romance  field,  on  the  other  hand,  have 
defined  style  in  a  way  sometimes  very  helpful  to  the  Romance 
style  analyst.  It  may  be  useful,  therefore,  in  this  last  chapter,  to 
review  the  opinions  of  such  scholars  and  writers  on  style,  its 
theory  and  its  investigation. 

A.  Stylistic  Theory  in  General 

The  main  restriction  which  imposes  itself  here  is  the  border- 
line which  separates  stylistics  from  general  literary  theory  and 
poetics.  General  literary  theory,  however,  comprises  also  the 
attempt  at  a  definition  of  style.  But  one  is  rather  dis- 
appointed to  find  the  following  definition  by  E.  A.  Tenney  — 1354 
—  "Style"  in  Joseph  T.  Shipley's  Dictionary  of  World  Literature 
(New  York:  Philos.  Library,  1943),  554-556:  "Style  is  a  term  of 
literary  criticism,  viewed  as  specific  by  some  and  as  generic  by 
others,  used  to  name  or  describe  the  manner  or  quality  of  an  ex- 
pression." W.  S.  KNICKERBOCKER  —1355—  "Style",  Nine- 
teenth Century  English  Essays  on  Style,  ib.  556-557,  gives  a  sur- 
vey of  discussions  of  the  style  problem  by  the  authors  from  the 
anthology  of  Brewster  (no.  1358).  There  is  another  vagary  on 
style  by  Sir  Walter  Alexander  RALEIGH  — 1356 —  Style  (Lon- 
don: Arnold,  1929)  :  "While  persons  count  for  much,  style,  the 
index  to  persons,  can  never  count  for  little"  (p.  128).  More 
serious  approximations  rather  than  definitions  may  be  found  in 
David  Watson  RANNIE  —1357—  The  Elements  of  Style.  An 
Introduction  to  Literary  Criticism  (London:  Dent,  1915),  and 
William  J.  BREWSTER  —1358—-  Representative  Essays  on 


1354-1367  Theory  in  General  243 

the  Theory  of  Style  (N.  Y.,  Macmillan,  1905),  collecting  some 
mutually  exclusive  considerations  on  different  aspects  of  style 
from  writers  like  John  Henry  Newman  (pp.  1-26),  Thomas  De 
Quincey  (pp.  27-166),  Herbert  Spencer  (pp.  167-208),  George 
Henry  Lewes  (pp.  209-262),  L.  Stevenson  (pp.  263-283),  W. 
Porter  (pp.  284-310),  Frederic  Harrison  (pp.  311-328).  Notes 
afford  more  light  on  the  views  of  these  early  theoreticians. 

Emmy  L.  KERKHOFF  —1359—  Het  begrip  stijl  (Groningen- 
Batavia,  1946),  is  a  modern  Dutch  attempt  at  grasping  the  con- 
cept of  style  by  a  general  theory  and  was  used  in  the  textbook  on 
style:  C.  F.  P.  STUTTERHEIM  —1360—  Stijlleer  (Den  Haag: 
Servire,  1947). 

Among  French  aestheticians  the  first  who  wrote  convincingly 
in  a  more  modern  fashion  on  style  was  Remy  DE  GOURMONT 
— 1361 —  "Du  style  ou  de  Tecriture,"  in  his  La  culture  des  idees 
(Paris:  Mercure  de  France,  1900),  7-43;  later  in  —1362—  Le 
probleme  du  style  (Paris,  1916  and  1924),  where  he  says: 

C'est  user  d'une  faculte  necessairement  commune  a  tous  les 
hommes,  d'une  faculte  primordiale  et  inconsciente.  .  .  .  Le  style 
est  aussi  personnel  que  la  couleur  des  yeux  (p.  12). 

In  Italy,  the  inspirer  of  modern  stylistics,  Benedetto  CROCE, 
offered  his  theory  of  expression  as  — 1363 —  Estetica  come  scien- 
za  delV  espressiowe  e  linguistica  generale  (Milan,  1902).  For 
Croce  language  and  style,  used  almost  identically,  have  an  inner 
psychological  form  appearing  externally  as  an  aesthetical  phen- 
omenon by  definition.  Among  the  adepts  of  the  Croce- Vosslerian 
school  of  stylistics  only  one  was  systematically  interested  in 
stylistic  theory,  the  late  Emil  WINKLER.  He  revealed  this  in- 
terest first  in  a  general  philosophic-aesthetic  theory  — 1364 — 
Das  dichterische  Kunstwerk  (Heidelberg:  Winter,  1924).  Later 
he  envisaged  the  syntactical  and  grammatical  side  of  this  prob- 
lem in  — 1365 —  Grundlegung  der  Stilistik  (Bielefeld:  Velhagen, 
1929).  In  Italy  itself  Croce's  ideas  found  a  revamping  in  Attilio 
DE  LORENZI  — 1366 —  Filestetica.  La  critica  estetica  dal  punto 
di  vista  filologico  (Naples:  Genovese,  1949).  Mario  ROSSI 
— 1367 —  Contro  la  stilistica  (Firenze:  Seeber,  1906),  would 
define  style  so  radically  as  "expression"  that  he  accepts  only  the 
Crocean  concepts  versus  the  Bally  type  of  stylistics.  But  Rossi's 
polemics  were  particularly  directed  against  Eduard  Norden  whom 
he  considers  incapable  of  characterizing  any  of  the  ancient  ora- 
tors with  his  rhetorical  and  rhythmical  patterns.  Norden,  con- 


244  Theory  of  Style  1368-1373 

tends  Rossi,  severed  style  from  the  individual  art  which  Norden 
himself  practically  considered  only  to  be  tricks  of  artistry.  The 
position  Rossi  versus  Norden  continues  today  in  the  position 
Spitzer  versus  Curtius.  CiRO  TRABALZA  — 1368—  La  stilistica 
e  Vinsegnamento  di  essa  nell'Universita  (Rome:  1903),  believed 
that  Crocean  aesthetics  and  traditional  rhetorical  stylistics  are 
incompatible  and  that  the  latter  was  definitely  replaced  by  the 
Crocean  concept  of  language  and  literature.  At  that  early  stage 
of  discussion,  however,  things  were  reduced  to  reasonable  pro- 
portions by  the  wise  and  sober  Johan  VISING  — 1369 —  "La 
stylistique  est-elle  possible?",  MW,  2e  partie  (Paris,  1910).  Vis- 
ing solved  the  question  in  the  sense  that  dealing  with  the  possible 
subjective  variations  in  the  system  of  the  common  language 
definitely  is  and  remains  stylistics.  This  very  sound  fundamental 
approach  was  shared  later  very  realistically  by  JOSEF  NADLER 
— 1370 —  "Das  Problem  der  Stilgeschichte,"  in  Emil  Ermatinger, 
Philosophic  der  Literatunvissenchaft  (Berlin:  Junker,  1930), 
376-397. 

Theophil  Spoerri,  combining  the  linguistic  theory  of  Croce 
with  that  of  Saussure,  shifts  the  ideological  and  psychological 
concept  of  style  to  a  structural,  existential,  and  visionary  orienta- 
tion. Theophil  SPOERRI,  in  his  — 1371 —  Praludium  zur  Poesie 
(Berlin,  1929)  (No.  54),  and  even  more  in  —1372 —  "Das  Prob- 
lem des  Tragischen,"  T,  V  (1947),  133-179,  raises  stylistic  ques- 
tions of  a  metaphysical  order.  It  seems  to  Spoerri  that  all  crea- 
tive greatness  has  the  same  source,  be  it  an  active  embracing  of 
suffering  and  death  or  an  historic  and  stylistic  investigation. 
This  source  is  understanding  put  into  realization.  Based  on  Vico, 
Spoerri  therefore  makes  this  statement: 

Dieser  revolutionare  Gedanke  .  .  .  ist  die  philosophische  Be- 
griindung  der  Stilkritik  und  macht  das  Stadium  der  Poesie  zur 
Propaedeutik  des  neuen  Denkens  und  Lebens  (p.  161). 

Earlier,  Theophil  Spoerri  — 1373 —  Die  Formwerdung  des  Men- 
schen  (Berlin:  Furcheverlag,  1938),  explained  in  a  similar  way 
that  perfection  in  one's  personal  life  may  come  from  appreciation 
of  the  growth  of  human  dignity  through  literary  form  as  vis- 
ible in  the  transfigured  realms  of  art.  The  appendix  of  this  book, 
"Die  stilkritische  Methode,"  stresses  Croce's  aesthetics  and  Saus- 
sure's  synchronic  study  of  language,  followed  by  Charles  Bally's 
work  as  fundamental  for  any  criticism  based  on  language.  But 


1374-1376  Theory  in  General  245 

Spoerri  finally  (comparable  to  Claudel)  has  style  theory  absorbed 
by  an  overall  religious  existentialism  in  Die  Struktur  der  Existenz 
(Zurich:  Speer,  1951). 

Spoerri's  stylistic  metaphysics  find  a  counterpart  in  the 
stylistic  formalism  of  Jean  HYTIER  — 1374 —  Les  arts  de  lit- 
terature  (Chariot,  1945).  Hytier  makes  a  futile  distinction  be- 
tween a  conscious  and  an  unconscious  style : 

Certains  .  .  .  grands  stylistes  (Rabelais,  Bossuet,  Rousseau, 
Chateaubriand,  Flaubert)  s'opposent  aux  formulateurs  spontanes 
et  sans  contrainte  esthetique  (Voltaire,  Stendhal,  Musset,  La- 
martine).  Tout  grand  ecrivain  recree  la  langue.  Le  travail 
volontaire  joue  ici  un  grand  role  (p.  44).  La  poetisation  sys- 
tematique  prete  a  un  travail  esthetique   (p.  38). 

This  thesis  would  simplify  the  style  problem,  if  it  were  acceptable. 
Hytier  believes  the  style  of  the  drama  to  depend  exclusively  on 
language : 

Qu-est-ce  qui  fait  done  le  style  dramatique?  La  condensa- 
tion exhaustive  de  toutes  les  energies  en  energie  verbale  (p.  82). 
Le  drame  etage  le  style  fondamental  de  la  volonte,  le  style  con- 
ducteur  de  Parchitecture  dynamique,  le  style  tonal  de  Pexpres- 
sion  (p.  93).  II  y  a  un  grand  style  du  roman:  e'est  celui  qui  se 
fait  oublier  (p.  137). 

Right  or  wrong,  style  is  for  Hytier,  after  all,  the  key  to  literature. 
He  tries  to  separate  stylistic  concern  from  general  aesthetics  as 
an  esthetique  litteraire  specif  ique  with  the  aim  of  studying : 

la  distinction  des  styles  superposes  dan9  Poeuvre  (styles:  de 
Pinspiration  fondamentale,  de  Pimagination  realisante,  du  ton 
expressif,  de  la  formulation  decisive)    (p.  144). 

As  aesthetician,  critic  and  scholar  in  the  field  of  the  Malayan, 
Jean  PAULHAN,  — 1375 —  Clef  de  la  poesie  (Paris:  Gallimard, 
1944),  sees  style  as  the  secret  relation,  not  analyzable,  between 
word  and  idea : 

e'est  que  le  mot  devienne  idee  et  Pidee  mot:  en  sorte  que — 
chaque  terme  du  rapport  y  perdant  les  traits  particuliers  qui  le 
definissent — le  rapport  ne  se  laisse  meme  imaginer  (pp.  41-42) 
(see  also  no.  1391). 

Pio  BAROJA  — 1376 —  La  intuition  y  el  estilo  (Madrid:  Bib- 
lioteca  Nueva,  1948),  "El  estilo,"  pp.  283-304,  offers,  with  re- 
gard to  contemporary  Spanish  literature,  one  of  the  wisest  re- 
pristinations  of  Goethe's  fundamental  distinction  between  style 
and  mannerism.  Dispelling  the  exaggerated  cult  of  the  modern- 
ista  mannerism,  Baroja  distinguishes  between  escritores  fecundos 


246  Theory  of  Style  1377-1385 

and  escritores  grafomanos.  The  fertile  authors  are  creating  style 
when  expressing  important  ideas  with  a  minimum  of  means  and 
effort,  spontaneously  and  in  close  contact  with  their  national 
idiom;  the  manneristic  acrobats  have,  however,  the  infantile 
hope  that  their  neologisms,  archaisms  and  hyperbata  previously 
constructed  would  be  able  to  produce  an  idea.  Somewhat  more 
articulate  about  this  problem  is  JOSE  Luis  MARTINEZ  — 1377 — 
La  tecnica  en  liter  atura  (Letras  de  Mexico,  1943) .  His  ideas  are 
based  on  Vossler's  distinctions,  and  he  deals  not  only  with  the 
differences  but  also  with  the  mutual  penetrations  of  style  as 
spontaneous  expression  and  as  technical,  rhetorical,  traditional 
convention  made  necessary  by  the  syntactical  exigencies. 

The  best  interpretations  of  the  fusion  of  traditional  and 
creative  elements  in  style  we  owe  to  Clifford  BAX  — 1378 — 
"Style  and  Fashion  in  Literature/'  Essays  by  Divers  Hands  Being 
the  Transactions  of  the  Royal  Society  of  Literature  of  the  United 
Kingdom  (ed.  W.  de  la  Marie)  New  Series,  vol.  XXI  (London: 
Milford,  1944),  67-81.  He  explains  that  acquired  fashion  based 
on  clarity,  music,  shapeliness,  continuity  and  variety  becomes 
style  by  personality  and  range,  two  elements  which  give  this 
fashion  a  unique  and  exceptional  stamp.  Less  programmatic 
contributions  are  A.  RAS  — 1379 —  Reflexiones  sobre  el  estilo 
(Madrid:  Beltran,  1944),  a  stylistic  "causerie"  and  John  Peale 
BISHOP  —1380—  "Reflections  on  Style,"  HuR,  I  (1948),  207- 
220.  Style  plays  an  important  part  in  F.  J.  BILLESKOV  JAN- 
SEN  — 1381 —  Esthetique  de  Voeuvre  d'art  litteraire  (Copen- 
hague:  Munksgaard,  1948).  This  work  is  centered  around  "Mo- 
tif" and  "Realization."  Style  is  defined  as  "l'intention  poetique 
realisee  dans  le  langage"  (p.  65). 

Fernand  LION  — 1382 —  II  segreto  del  arte  (Milan:  Bom- 
piani,  1935),  or  "Introduction  a  une  phenomenologie  de  Tart," 
in  his  — 1383 —  Les  reves  de  Racine  (Paris:  Laffont,  1948),  9- 
53,  gives  an  excellent  insight  into  the  complexity  of  style  by  show- 
ing inextricable  stylistic  elements  of  a  literary  work  vertically 
in  its  strata  and  horizontally  in  its  network  of  interwoven  parti- 
cles, les  tissus.  But  still  more  profound  is  the  description  of  the 
stylistic  maze  to  be  disentangled  in  Jean  HANKISS  — 1384— 
"La  multiplicity  des  plans,  source  demotions,"  CL,  II  (1950), 
193-235.  Jean  Paul  SARTRE  —1385—  "Qu'est-ce  que  la  litera- 
ture," in  his  Situations  II  (Paris:  NRF,  1948),  57-330,  defines 
style,  poetic  language  and  the  poet's  use  of  language: 


1386-1391  Single  Problems  247 

Au  lieu  que  les  mots  lui  soient  des  indicateurs  qui  le  jettent 
hors  de  lui  .  .  .  le  langage  tout  entier  est  pour  lui  le  miroir  du 
monde.  .  .  .  Sa  sonorite  .  .  .,  ses  desinences  masculines  ou  femi- 
nines,  son  aspect  visuel  lui  composent  un  visage  de  chair  qui 
represente  la  signification  plutot  qu'il  ne  l'exprime"   (p.  66). 

He  has  other  pertinent  remarks  in  Situations  I.  His  main  point 
is  that  the  poet  is  outside  the  pale  of  the  language  of  the  ordinary- 
speaker. 

Theoretical  distinctions  between  the  linguistic  and  the  poetic 
element,  as  well  as  between  the  creative  and  the  imitative  possi- 
bilities in  style,  are  made  by  the  present  writer's  late  pupil, 
Sophie  COHEN  —1386—  "Diesseits  und  Jenseits  vom  Stile," 
GRM,  XV  (1927),  248-258,  and  —1387—  "Prinzip  oder  Stil? 
Wiederholung  oder  Neuschopfung?,"  GRM,  XIV  (1926),  398- 
417. 

A.  STENDER-PETERSEN  —1388—  "Esquisse  d'une  theorie 
structurale  de  la  literature,"  Travaux  du  Cercle  linguistique  de 
Copenhague,  vol.  V:  Recherches  structurales,  1949,  277-287, 
uses  the  "systeme  glossematique"  invented  by  Louis  Hjelmslev 
for  a  convincing  style  theory:  Style  is  the  semiological  relation 
of  a  creative,  "fictitious"  language  (in  opposition  to  the  ordinary 
reproductive  language  as  expression)  to  a  primarily  non-com- 
municative artistic  "fiction"  based  on  a  chain  of  emotions  for  its 
contents  or  motif.  This  motif  would  remain  formless  could  it 
not  use  the  emotional  elements  of  language  (archaisms,  meta- 
phors, etc.)  with  only  vague  notional  elements  as  instrumentaliza- 
tion,  the  varieties  of  which  condition  the  differences  in  style, 
culminating  in  the  pure  literary  kinds  (see  no.  1455). 

B.  Single  Theoretical  Style  Problems 

The  distinction  between  style  and  language  came  early  from 
the  masters,  De  Saussure,  Bally,  Vossler,  Spitzer,  Lerch,  in  their 
different  works  previously  mentioned.  Recently  Rolf  PIPPING 
— 1389 —  Spraek  och  stil  (Stockholm,  1940),  developed  further 
this  fundamental  problem,  once  treated  by  him  as  — 1390 —  "Ut- 
trycksbehov  och  'Stilarten',"  Acta  Academiae  Aboensis.  Human- 
iora,  III,  8  (Abo,  1922).  The  ratio  between  language  and  style 
was  also  the  concern  of  many  French  amateurs  from  Paul  Valery 
to  Fr.  PAULHAN  —1391—  who  wrote  La  double  fonction  de  la 
langue  (Paris,  1929)   (see  also  no.  1375). 


248  Theory  of  Style  1392-1400 

A.  PANZINI  —1392—  "Lo  stile  e  la  parola,"  L,  XXXVIII 
(1938),  1885-1888,  gives  a  very  superficial  view  on  epoch  styles 
as  reflecting  political  trends  but  leaving  the  individual  style  free. 
GlACOMO  DEVOTO  —1393—  "Studi  di  stilistica  italiana,"  ANP, 
V  (1930),  188  ff.  and  Studi  di  stilistica  (no.  1494),  tries  to  prove 
that  the  language  of  the  collectivity  is  the  basis  from  which  any 
kind  of  individualization  must  be  judged.  Vising  (no.  1369)  and 
Nadler  (no.  1370)  had  this  viewpoint  previous  to  Devoto,  who 
however  ignores  them. 

That  in  the  language  of  a  poet  "eternal"  beauty  is  at  issue  and 
not  historical  background,  was  aptly  pointed  out  by  Leo 
SPITZER  —1394—  "History  of  Ideas  versus  Reading  of  Poetry," 
SR,  VI  (1941) ,  584-609.  Marcel  RAYMOND  —1395—  "Le  poete 
et  la  langue,"  T,  II  (1944),  2-25,  made  profound  speculations  on 
poetic  style,  the  implicit  criticism  of  which  may  be  found  in  Hel- 
mut HATZFELD  —1396—  "The  Language  of  the  Poet,"  SP, 
XLI  (1946),  93-120.  Also  the  Claudel  interpreter,  Claudine 
CHONEZ,  wrote  —1397—  "Notes  sur  Tart  et  le  langage  poeti- 
que,"  Ne  (Mars,  1945),  25-35.    She  is  concerned  with 

le  jeu  d'une  sensualite  infiniment  subtile  (qui)  a  pour  effet 
d'endormir  l'homme  a  la  vie  soi-disant  reelle,  pour  ensuite  le 
reveiller  du  cote  de  Tinvisible.  .  .  .  Le  retour  de  la  cadence  pe- 
riodique  joue  un  role  certain  (p.  34). 

Paul  VALeRY  et  Antoine  MEILLET  —1398—  "Les  droits  du 
poete  sur  le  langage,"  RPhF,  XLII  (1928),  58-64,  reveal  a  fine 
cooperation  between  a  great  poet  and  a  great  linguist  in  order 
to  clarify  the  crucial  problem  of  the  hegemony  of  parole  over 
langue  or  vice  versa.  Paul  Valery  says :  "L'ecrivain  est  un  ecart, 
un  agent  d'ecart"  (p.  61)  ;  Meillet  answers:  "C'est  aux  poetes  de 
choisir  entre  une  tradition  qui  les  isole  du  present  et  une  revolu- 
tion qui  les  isolerait  du  passe"  (p.  63). 

Maurice  GRAMMONT  —1399 —  Essai  de  psychologie  Unguis- 
tique.  Style  et  poesie  (Paris :  Delagrave,  1950) ,  offers  two  articles 
on  lyrical  poetry  and  poetic  language  (99-127),  sandwiched  be- 
tween stylistic  text  interpretations  from  V.  Hugo  and  La  Fon- 
taine. As  far  as  the  "explications"  transcend  Grammont's  special- 
ty of  verse,  rhythm  and  word  music,  they  do  not  lack  a  certain 
verbosity  (see  nos.  522,  981,  982).  Andre  SPIRE  —1400— 
Plaisir  poetique  et  plaisir  musculaire.  Essai  sur  revolution  des 
techniques  poetiques   (New  York:  Vanni,  1949),  based  on  the 


1401-1405  Single  Problems  249 

experimental  phonetics  of  Abbe  Rousselot,  Lionel  Landry,  Robert 
de  Souza,  Georges  Lote  and  Marcel  Jousse,  establishes  a  physio- 
logical link  between  the  rhythm  types  of  human  constitutions 
and  their  expressive  beauty,  hinging  on  "engrenages  articula- 
tors a  l'aide  de  mots  agrafes"  (p.  126) .  The  illustration  is  made 
by  a  rhythmic-stylistic  interpretation  of  Racine's  "divins  ana- 
pestes  aux  timbres  assourdis  comme  des  velours"  (M.  Jousse)  : 
Ariane,  ma  soeur  .  .  .  .,  whose  beauty  is  ascribed  also  to  the 
smoothness  produced  by  high  percentages  of  labial  consonants 
and  labial  vowels,  and  the  continuous  use  of  the  same  vowel 
types.  Neither  the  archaic  nor  the  ultra-modern  treatment  of 
the  "e  muets"  changes  the  smoothness. 

D.  BARTLING  — 1401 —  Aanteekeningen  over  stjl,  persoon- 
lijkheid  en  kumtwerk  (Assen,  1938),  struggles  with  the  problem 
of  psychological  expression  and  structure  as  far  as  style  is  con- 
cerned. At  a  time  when  the  psychologist  Wertheimer  had  not  as 
yet  coined  his  catchword  Gestalt,  and  when  Oskar  Walzel  was 
using  this  concept  without  definition,  there  was  the  same  decisive 
question  asked  by  Emil  WINKLER  —1402—  "Was  heisst  dich- 
terische  'Form'?,"  GRM,  XII  (1924),  257-263.  He  decided  that 
poetical  form  meant  style  in  the  sense  of  artistic  content  versus 
material  content.  Today  this  needs  the  supplementation  by  James 
Craig  LADRIeRE  —1403—  "Form",  in  Shipley's  Dictionary  of 
World  Literature  (New  York:  Philosophical  Library,  1943), 
250-253,  with  many  bibliographical  items  from  the  English  and 
German  field  comprising  articles  by  O.  Walzel,  E.  Cassirer,  R. 
Wellek,  W.  P.  Kerr,  and  others.  The  best  discussion  of  form  from 
a  philosophical  viewpoint  is  that  of  R.  INGARDEN  — 1404 — 
Das  literarische  Kunstwerk.  Eine  Untersuchung  aus  dem  Grenz- 
gebiet  der  Ontologie,  Logik  und  Literaturwissenschaft  (Halle, 
1931).  With  Ingarden,  style  or  form  appears  as  the  polyphonic 
harmony  of  all  the  aesthetic  qualities  of  a  literary  work  of  art 
(see  nos.  1383  and  1384).  All  these  qualities  are  rooted  in  the 
theme  and  are  distributed  over  all  the  layers  of  the  work  of  art. 
They  are  voices  coming  to  a  unison  in  the  whole;  even  hetero- 
geneous elements  are  made  homogeneous  by  the  uniting,  symbol- 
ical link  of  the  theme. 

A  rich  exemplification  of  a  similar  theory  of  form  with  French 
material  will  be  of  great  value  to  the  Romance  style  investigator, 
namely  Jacques  G.  KRAFFT  — 1405 —  La  forme  et  Videe  en 
poesie  (Paris:  Vrin,  1944),  centered  around  the  unity  of  form 


250  Theory  of  Style  1406-1407 

and  idea  which  he  exemplifies  specifically  with  Racine  (no. 
1595a). 

Nicolai  Sergeevich  TRUBETZKOY  —1406—  "Phonostylisti- 
que,"  in  his  Principes  de  phonologie  (Paris:  Klinksieck,  1949), 
16-30,  demands  by  an  irrefutable  logic  a  style  concept  based  on 
phonemics  and  developing  a  representative  as  well  as  an  appella- 
tive and  expressive  phonology.  Representative  phonology  studies 
the  phonemes  as  the  objective  elements  of  the  language  and  be- 
longs to  grammar,  appellative  phonology  studies  the  modifying 
attitudes  perceptible  in  the  sounds  of  a  speaker  as  he  arranges 
his  speech  in  view  of  the  listener.  Expressive  phonology  studies 
the  modifications  which  come  from  the  temperament  and  the 
particular  but  spontaneous  behavior  of  the  speaker.  Appellative 
and  expressive  phonology  are  therefore  phonological  stylistics. 
Studies  along  these  lines  should  be  encouraged.  One  could  add 
indeed  that  appellative  phonology  would  be  the  investigation  of 
mannerism  in  any  kind  of  speech ;  expressive  phonology,  the  in- 
vestigation of  true  style  in  the  smallest  linguistic  atoms  imagin- 
able. The  French  translation  of  Trubetzkoy's  text  corresponds  to 
the  German  original:  N.  S.  Trubetzkoy,  "Phonologie  und  Laut- 
stilistik/'  in  his  Grundziige  der  Phonologie  (Prague,  1939),  24  ff. 

Svend  JOHANSEN  —1407—  "La  notion  de  signe  dans  la 
glossematique  et  dans  Testhetique,"  Travaux  du  Cercle  lingtristi- 
que  de  Copenhague,  vol.  V  (1949),  288-303,  builds  around  four 
lines  of  Booz  endormie  a  new  tentative  theory  of  interpretation, 
style  and  literature  based  on  the  glossematic  linguistics  of  Louis 
Hjelmslev  (see  no.  1388).  Interpretation  of  style  and  literature 
is  bound  to  define  the  affective,  imaginative  "connotative 
sign"  of  their  subjects,  i.e.  the  vague  content-form  relations 
expressed  intrinsically  by  the  meaningful,  logical,  objective,  usual 
"denotative  sign"  of  ordinary  language.  There  are,  however,  also 
simple  connotative  signs  which  are  neither  usual  nor  denotative, 
namely  rhyme  and  phonetic  expressive  values;  relations  be- 
tween connotative  content  and  denotative,  functional,  formal 
expression,  e.g.  rhythm ;  there  are  relations  between  connotative 
content  and  denotative,  formal  content  like  gradation,  asyndeton, 
parataxis,  use  of  tenses ;  finally  there  are  relations  between  the 
connotative  content  and  the  denotative  substance  of  the  content, 
like  the  ideas  of  the  author  and  his  preference  for  certain  motifs 
versus  their  formulation.  The  complexity  of  the  signs  in  a  work 
of  art  determines  all  the  single  signs  of  expression.  What  has  to 
be  found,  determined  and  defined  is  the  aesthetic  complex  sign  or 


1408-1412  Single  Problems  251 

the  substance  of  the  expressions.  In  this  literary  semiology  the 
object  of  analysis  would  be  the  variations  possible  in  a  pattern 
or  network  of  sign  complexes  conditioning  the  formal  structures 
of  a  work  of  art. 

Wolfgang  KAYSER  — 1408 —  Das  sprachliche  Kunstwerk. 
Eine  Einfiihrung  in  die  Literaturwissenschaft  (Bern:  Francke, 
1948),  chapter  IX:  "Der  Stil,"  271-330,  is  the  only  existing  "In- 
troduction to  Literature"  which  belongs  theoretically  to  the 
Stilforschung.  Kayser  uses  much  Romance  material,  especially 
Portuguese  and  discusses  in  his  way  the  progress  made  in  stylis- 
tics  as  well  as  in  literary  theory.  There  is  a  Portuguese  transla- 
tion of  Kayser's  book  under  the  title :  Fundamentos  da  interpre- 
tagdo  e  andlise  literaria,  2  vols.  (Coimbra:  Armenio  Amado, 
1948).  The  Spanish  version  of  it  will  appear  in  Damaso  Alonso's 
Biblioteca  Romdnica  Hispdnica  (Madrid:  Gredos).  Pierre  TRA- 
HARD  — 1409 —  Le  Mystere  poetique  (Paris:  Boivin,  1940),  is 
one  of  the  repetitions  of  the  German  Romantic  theories  of  poetry. 
But  it  is  interesting  in  view  of  its  illustrative  material  from 
modern  France,  and  for  its  summary  of  the  possible  relations  be- 
tween imagination  and  word  as  discussed  in  the  theories  of  Bre- 
mond,  Valery,  Du  Bos,  Maritain,  and  others. 

A  general  discussion  of  the  style  problem  as  involving  neces- 
sarily a  technique  is  found  in  L.  E.  A.  SAIDLA  — 1410 —  Essay 
for  the  Study  of  Structure  and  Style  (New  York:  Macmillan, 
1939) ,  though  with  practical  aims.  According  to  Saidla,  style  com- 
prises word  choice,  sentence  structure,  paragraph  patterns, 
movement,  tone,  imagery,  allusions,  phrasing,  sound  patterns, 
rhythm,  and  visual  devices  (p.  356).  Val£ry  LARBAUD 
— 1411 —  Technique  (Paris:  Gallimard,  1932),  is  a  miscellaneous 
volume  with  different  articles  on  style  and  literary  history.  Lar- 
baud  tries  to  sever  literary  history  from  any  attempt  at  literary 
criticism.  According  to  V.  Larbaud,  scholars  must  publish  their 
excerpts  without  any  stylistic-aesthetic  comment,  which  task  is 
that  of  the  critic  not  the  historian.  Mario  FUBINI  — 1412 — 
"Arte  linguaggio,  letteratura,"  Belfagor,  III,  (1948),  269-288, 
and  396-413,  is  of  the  opposite  opinion.  He  discusses  and  fights 
the  aesthetic  super-Croceanism  of  Guido  Calogero's  book  Estetica, 
semantica,  istorica  (Torino:  Einaudi,  1947),  but  concludes  none 
the  less  that  there  must  be  an  arguable  interior  expression-form, 
different  from  and  previous  to  the  stylistic  sign,  a  fact  which 
accounts  for  the  unity  behind  the  double  style  of,  say,  an  author 


252  Theory  of  Style  1413-1420 

who  writes  in  his  vernacular  and  in  Latin  at  the  same  time,  or 
who  expresses  himself  in  prose  and  poetry  alike.  If  a  concept 
can  be  expressed  by  the  same  author  in  different  languages  as 
well  as  in  prose  and  poetry,  the  Crocean  idea  of  identity  of  con- 
cept and  expression  becomes  absurd,  indeed,  but  only  on  the 
surface  (see  no.  1472). 

Juan  J.  REMOS  Y  RUBIO  —1413—  La  obra  literaria. 
Estetica  y  tecnica  (La  Habana:  Fernandez  y  cia,  1941),  is  one 
of  the  best  types  of  the  so-called  Spanish  preceptivas  literarias 
and  contains  a  chapter  on  style  (XIII),  in  which  it  is  stated 
that  "todos  los  autores  emplean  el  lenguaje  .  .  .;  cada  uno  le  im- 
prime  un  sello  personal  segun  su  cultura,  su  gusto,  su  idiosin- 
crasia,  y  eso  es  el  estilo"  (p.  165).  More  of  this  type  of  technical 
theory  may  be  found  in  Robert  SALMON  — 1414 —  "Las  tecnicas 
de  lo  poetico,"  AIL,  III,  (1943),  94-125. 

Alfonso  REYES  — 1415 —  El  Deslinde.  Prolegomenon  a  la 
teoria  literaria  (El  Colegio  de  Mexico,  1944),  is  constantly  pre- 
occupied with  the  problem  of  style  as  "la  valoracion  de  las  tres 
notas  linguisticas  (significativa,  acustica  y  afectiva)  precisa- 
mente  en  la  vinulacion  sobre  cada  idioma  determinado"  (p.  224). 
Ulrich  LEO  attacks  a  fundamental  problem  in  — 1416 —  "Estilo 
colectivo  y  estilo  individual,"  Vi  (Nov.  15-22,  1940).  Charles 
CHASSe  — 1417 —  Styles  et  physiologies  (Paris:  Michel,  1928), 
attempts  a  connected  vision  of  style  and  character  which  is  based 
on  French  examples,  a  problem  haunting  also  J.  P.  HODIN 
—1418—  "Style  and  Personality,"  JAe,  VI  (1948),  209-225. 

C.  Style  Typology 

The  old  antinomies  of  literary  history,  Classicism  and  Roman- 
ticism, now  appear  as  recurrent  style  types  and  are  replaced 
by  new  terms.  They  were  called  Anspielung  and  Ausdrucfcs- 
verstarkung  (allusion  and  reinforcement  of  expression)  by 
Franz  DORNSEIFF  —1419—  "Zwei  Arten  der  Ausdrucks- 
verstarkung,"  Festschrift  Wackernagel  (1924),  103-109.  Dorn- 
seiff  exemplifies  his  reinforcement  of  expression  with  the  style 
of  Peguy.  His  material  is  scant  if  compared  to  that  of  William 
EMPSON  — 1420 —  Seven  Types  of  Ambiguity  (London :  Chatto, 
1930),  who  tries  to  show  how  the  ambivalence  of  stylistic  ex- 
pressions conditions  different  styles  and  excludes  dogmatic 
poetics.  This  actually  is  a  point  of  contact  between  the  German 
style  investigation  and  the  so-called  New  Criticism.  Both  schools 


1421-1426  Theory  of  Metaphor  253 

stress  the  dichotomy  of  expression  as  well  as  the  texture  of  the 
artefact  and  the  freedom  from  any  non-intrinsic  principles  prior 
to  the  work. 

D.  Theory  of  Metaphor 

HANS  FRANK  — 1421 —  in  a  systematic  study,  Essai  sur  les 
fondements  psychologiques  et  linguistiques  de  la  metaphore 
affective,  Diss.,  Geneve,  1939,  and  better  still  Hedwig  KONRAD 
— 1422 —  Etude  sur  la  metaphore  (Paris:  Lavergne,  1939),  re- 
view the  theories  on  the  stylistic  meaning  of  symbolic  expression. 
Hedwig  Konrad,  particularly  under  the  guidance  of  Romance 
stylistic  and  linguistic  scholars  like  Poirier,  Marouzeau,  Bruneau 
and  J.  G.  Cohen,  discusses  Cassirer,  Pongs,  Werner,  Bally,  Breal, 
Buehler,  E.  Huguet,  Nyrop,  Paul,  Wellander,  Winkler  and  Wundt. 
She  comes  to  the  conclusion  that  in  ordinary  language  as  well  as 
in  literary  style,  metaphor  and  myth  are  two  different  forms 
not  dependent  on  one  another.  Metaphor  is  based  on  the  notion 
of  a  kinship  between  two  objects ;  myth,  not  knowing  abstraction, 
leads  to  a  supposed  factual  relation  between  two  objects.  The 
metaphor,  however,  being  only  an  abstraction,  leads  to  an  ideal 
conjunction  of  two  similar  objects  (p.  154).  C.  F.  P.  STUTTER- 
HEIM  — 1423 —  Het  begrip  Metaphor.  En  taalkundig  en  wijs- 
gerig  onderzoeg  (Amsterdam:  H.  J.  Paris,  1941),  stresses  the 
"mirror  of  spirit"  problem  in  any  truly  metaphorical  creation  as 
opposed  to  an  arbitrary  imaginative  designation. 

C.  Day  LEWIS  —1424—  The  Poetic  Image  (London:  Cape, 
1947),  is  not  new  in  its  concept,  but  it  is  unusually  rich  in  ma- 
terial. Many  good  analyses  are  helpful  for  the  understanding 
of  shades  and  qualities  in  metaphorical  style.  The  most  profound 
study  on  metaphor  and  therefore  indispensable  to  the  Romance 
student,  is  Hermann  PONGS  — 1425 —  Das  Bild  in  der  Dich- 
tung,  2  vols.  (Marburg,  1927-1939).  To  Pongs  metaphor  is 
creative  discovery;  all  other  imagery  is  in  danger  of  being  only 
a  delicate  christening  of  things  by  cleverly  chosen  names  ("ein 
zierlich  Taufen").  A  terminology  based  on  Heidegger's  existen- 
tialism obscures  certain  issues. 

E.  Style  Parallelism 

Margarete  HOERNER  —1426—  "Sprachstil  und  Kunststil," 
IPh,  III  (1927),  184-188,  was  one  of  the  first  to  recognize  that  a 


254  Theory  of  Style  1427-1431 

stylistic  comparison  of  the  arts  makes  sense  only  on  the  basis 
of  a  common  cultural  background  and  psychology,  because  only 
a  poet  or  writer  in  a  particular  epoch  finds  certain  accepted 
linguistic  shades  of  expression  which  he  admits  without  ques- 
tion, but  which  he  certainly  would  reject  at  any  other  time. 
Other  artists  behave  in  a  similar  way.  Kurt  WAIS  also  —1427 — 
Symbiose  der  Kilns te  (Stuttgart:  Kohlhammer,  1936),  has  given 
a  very  concise  and  pertinent  survey  of  the  interrelation  of  the 
arts  based  mainly  on  a  common  cultural  psychology. 

K.  BERGER  —1428—  "Die  Dichtung  im  Zusammenhang  der 
Kunste,"  DV,  XXI   (1943),  229-251,  maintains  that 

Die  Dichtung  .  .  .  hat  weder  die  Anschauungsunmittelbarkeit 
der  bildenden  Kunst  fur  sich,  noch  die  Gefiihlsunmittelbarkeit  der 
Musik.    Dafiir  vereinigt  sie  beide  in  der  Sprache,  die  an  sich  schon 
symbolische  Form  ist  und  als  solche  ein  Element,  aus  dem  Dich- 
tung sich  gestaltet  (p.  236). 

According  to  Berger,  the  epic  comes  closer  to  the  arts  of  design, 
lyricism  closer  to  music.  If  systematically  compared  to  the  arts 
of  design,  epic  is  architecture,  whereas  lyricism  is  painting.  All 
these  possibilities  hint  at  the  "Fragwurdigkeit  einer  gegenseiti- 
gen  Erhellung"  (p.  248).  Berger's  scepticism  is  shared  by  Rene 
WELLEK  —1429—  'The  Parallelism  between  Literature  and 
the  Arts,"  EI  A  (1941),  29-63.  Doubt  as  to  the  validity  of  style 
parallelism  between  different  arts  was  also  voiced  by  Karl  Voss- 
ler,  "Uber  gegenseitige  Erhellung  der  Kunste,"  Festschrift  Hein- 
rich  Wolfflin  zum  70.  Geburtstag  (Dresden:  Jess,  1935),  160- 
167.  None  the  less,  the  parallelism  between  literary  style  and  the 
style  of  the  other  arts  is  supposed  to  exist  definitely  in  the  com- 
prehensive aesthetical  syllabus  of  Thomas  MUNRO  — 1430 — 
"Style  in  the  Arts :  A  method  of  stylistic  analysis,"  JAe  V  (1946) , 
128-158  (see  also  no.  1445). 

Also  E.  SOURIAU  — 1431 —  La  correspondance  des  arts. 
Elements  d'esthetique  comparee  (Paris,  Flammarion,  1947), 
takes  for  granted  the  interrelations  and  interdependence  of  art 
styles.  Therefore,  he  makes  the  overstatement  which  is  fertile 
for  practical  work  along  these  lines : 

La  forme  grammaticale,  dang  Toeuvre  litteraire,  se  place  sur 
le  meme  plan  et  a  la  meme  portee  que,  dans  leg  autre9  arts,  les  lois 
de  la  matiere  employee.  La  grammaire  et  la  syntaxe  francaise 
jouent,  dans  la  phrase  de  Bossuet  ou  de  Chateaubriand  exacte- 
ment  le  meme  role  que  jouent,  dang  une  oeuvre  d'architecture,  les 


1432-1437        Style  Parallelism  255 

lois  de  la  resistance  des  materiaux,  de  l'equilibre  physique,  de  la 
propagation  optique  de  Peclairage  (p.  127-128). 

G.  BATTAILLE  —1432—  "La  belle  laideur  et  la  beaute  laide 
dans  Tart  et  la  litterature,"  Critique,  5  (1949) ,  215-220,  raises  the 
old  question  of  form  and  expression  which  have  a  different  im- 
pact on  either  of  the  two  styles,  that  of  the  painter  and  that  of 
the  poet. 

Theodore  Meyer  GREENE  — 1433 —  The  Arts  and  the  Art 
of  Criticism  (Princeton:  Univ.  Press,  1940;  2nd  edition,  1947), 
does  not  doubt  in  his  very  important  book  the  stylistic  interrela- 
tion of  music,  the  dance,  architecture,  sculpture,  painting  and 
literature  as  to  their  art  compounds  and  their  single  art  elements 
if  they  are  considered  in  their  relation  to  meaning  and  in- 
tent. Thus  they  form  a  quasi-objective  basis  for  a  criticism  of 
formal  beauty,  artistic  quality,  artistic  integrity,  artistic  truth, 
and  artistic  greatness. 

Paul  MAURY  — 1434 —  Arts  et  litterature  compares:  Etat 
present  de  la  question  (Paris:  Les  Belles  Lettres,  1933),  restricts 
his  comparison  of  the  arts  to  literature  and  the  arts  of  de- 
sign, and  enumerates  all  the  possible  approaches  in  the  form 
of  a  critical  bibliography  and  a  mise  au  point.  Leo  STEIN 
— 1435 —  Appreciation:  Painting,  Poetry  and  Prose  (New  York: 
Crown  Publishers,  1947),  stresses  the  educational  value  of  seeing 
parallel  styles  in  all  the  arts  and  of  penetrating  their  meaning. 

Louis  HOURTICQ  —1436—  Uart  et  la  litterature  (Paris: 
Flammarion,  1946),  rather  tries  to  keep  the  arts  separated  in 
criticism  because  the  practice  of  literature  and  art  proves  to 
him  that  all  the  baroque  and  symbolistic  experiments  in  fusing 
the  arts  were  a  complete  failure. 

La  litterature  pour  devenir  peinture  n'a  qu'a  faire  porter  son 
effort  sur  le  choix  des  images  et  celui  des-  mots  .  .  . ;  d'ecrire  par 
enumeration  est  un  sur  moyen  de  nous  empecher  de  voir  (p.  7). 
La  preuve  de  correspondance  est  tiree  de  la  complaisance  de  nos 
epithetes  .  .  .  d'un  ordre  de  sensation  en  un  ordre  different  (p. 
270-271). 

This  latter  overstatement  condemns  the  theoretical  attempt  to 
establish  in  a  dogmatic  way  parallels  between  the  arts.  The  only 
justification  for  Hourticq's  radicalism  comes  from  superficial 
speculations  like  Jean  ROYfiRE's  — 1437 —  Le  musicisme  sculp- 
tural (Paris:  Messein,  1934).  He  treats  sculptural  style  as  akin 
to  literary  style  because  "Le  mouvement  est  la  meme  essence  dans 


256  Theory  of  Style  1438-1443 

le  langage  syntaxique  du  poete  et  dans  le  langage  plastique  du 
sculpteur." 

W.  K.  WIMSATT,  Jr.  and  Theodore  M.  GREENE  —1438— 
*'Is  a  General  Theory  of  the  Arts  of  a  Practical  Value  in  the  Study 
of  Literature?"  JAe,  VIII  (1950),  213-228,  agree  on  the  thesis 
that  literature  has  to  be  judged  from  the  same  philosophical  but 
from  other  critical  principles  than  art,  but  that  the  aesthetician 
in  formulating  his  over-all  principles  has  to  include  all  the  restric- 
tions and  differences  suggested  to  him  by  the  literary  critic. 
Calvin  L.  BROWN  — 1439 —  Music  and  Literature :  A  Compari- 
son of  the  Arts  (Athens:  Univ.  of  Georgia  Press,  1948),  leaves 
no  doubt  that  music  is  by  principle  an  art  concerned  with  abstract 
patterns,  literature  an  art  concerned  with  direct  representation. 
This  fundamental  difference  is  blurred  by  the  continuous  repeti- 
tion of  the  common  quality  of  these  two  arts,  each  being  con- 
sidered an  art  of  sounds  and  of  succession  in  time.  The  extreme 
attempts  of  program  music  and  of  pure  poetry  have  proved,  how- 
ever, that  these  supposed  affinities  are  meaningless,  because  to 
the  "sounds"  in  literature  there  is  always  attached  external 
meaning.  An  earlier  causerie  on  this  problem  may  be  found  in 
the  French  book  of  Andre  COEUROY  — 1440 —  Musique  et 
Litterature  (Paris:  Bloud,  1923).  Joyce  MICHELL  — 1441— 
Symbolism  in  Music  and  Poetry,  Diss.,  Philadelphia,  1944,  is  not 
a  theoretical  dissertation  correctly  speaking,  but  discusses  prac- 
tical cases  like  those  of  Richard  Wagner  and  Baudelaire.  Yet 
the  author  would  say  with  Boris  DE  SCHLOEZER  — 1442 — 
"Musique  et  poesie,"  CS,  XXXII,  no.  272  (1945),  481-486: 

II  y  a  dans  le  langage  quel  qu'il  soit  une  part  de  pens«e  qui 
ne  s'y  trouve  pas  totalement  'metamorphosee'  en  mots  mais  seule- 
ment  signifiee,  signaled  .  .  .  et  qu'il  ne  s'agit  pas  de  comprendre 
.  .  .,  mais  de  dechiffrer,  j'entends  de  depasser  pour  atteindre  ce 
qui  est  au-dela  du  son. 

This  is  the  only  element  which  links  poetry  to  music.  What 
separates  the  two  arts  was  stressed  again  by  Andre  SPIRE 
— 1443—  "Musique  et  poesie,"  CS,  XXVIII,  no.  234  (avril,  1941), 
196-206 : 

A  la  difference  de  la  melodie  musicale  dont  la  matiere  c'est 
les  sons,  comme  le  marbre  est  la  matiere  premiere  d'une  statue 
qu'il  faut  ensuite  y  decouvrir  et  sculpter,  la  matiere  propre  de  la 
poesie  est  un  complexe  sens-sonorite  dont  le  second  element  est 
dans  une  telle  dependance  de  l'autre  qu'il  en   nait  .  .   .,  comme 


1444-1447        Style  Parallelism  251 

9'il  suffisait  au  statuaire  de  chois-ir  le  marbre  pour  que,  sans  le 
jeu  du  marteau  .  .  .  il  en  surgisse  un  corps  ...  (p.  206). 

Curt  SACHS  — 1444 —  The  Commonwealth  of  Art :  Style  in 
the  Arts,  Music  and  the  Dance  (New  York,  1946),  though  ex- 
cluding literature  in  its  detailed  chapters,  makes  unmistakably 
clear  that  all  the  arts  together  through  the  different  ages  pre- 
sent a  kind  of  "fugue"  in  which  the  leading  voices  change  ac- 
cording to  epochs,  generations  and  events.  The  arts  which  are 
bound  to  the  genius  of  men  move  with  men  from  ethos  to  pathos 
and  back  again,  attaining  time  and  again  a  temporary  balance. 
This  does  not  happen  merely  to  one  particular  art,  but  to  all  of 
them. 

The  greatest  theoretical  success  in  establishing  a  modern 
system  of  the  interdependence  of  art  styles  was  achieved  by 
Thomas  MUNRO  — 1445 —  The  Arts  and  their  Interrelations 
(New  York :  The  Liberal  Arts  Press,  1949) .  This  book  epitomizes 
several  earlier  articles  of  the  author  (no.  1430).  It  contains  a 
definition  of  the  work  of  art  which  is  supposed  to  satisfy  litera- 
ture as  well  as  the  other  arts : 

An  arrangement  of  stimuli  .  .  .  presented  to  one  or  more 
sense-organs  in  order  to  arouse  later  responses  of  interpretive, 
imaginative,  cognitive,  emotional  or  other  nature    (p.  109). 

This  means,  as  far  as  literature  is  concerned,  that  the  stressing 
of  the  imaginative  element  keeps  literature  close  to  the  arts  and 
severs  it  definitely  from  science. 

Helmut  HATZFELD  —1446—  "Literary  Criticism  through 
Art  and  Art  Criticism  through  Literature,"  JAe,  VI  (1947),  1- 
21,  simply  tries  to  establish  seven  points  of  evident  and  arguable 
parallelism  between  spatial  and  temporal  arts  (see  no.  1598). 
Giovanni  GIOVANNINI  —1447—  "Method  in  the  Study  of  Lit- 
erature in  its  Relation  to  the  Other  Fine  Arts,"  JAe,  VIII  (1950) , 
185-194,  feels  that  much  of  the  alleged  parallelism  does  not  exist 
but  is  only  suggested  by  an  irresponsible  jargon  of  the  critic. 

F.  The  Task  of  Style  Investigation  and  Criticism 

The  central  problem  is  whether  style  analysis  is  criticism  in 
itself.  Charles  Bruneau  rejects  this  idea  as  inadmissible  (no. 
1506).  But  to  those  who  accept  it,  it  would  be  the  ideal,  namely 
objective  criticism.  If  stylistics  is  only  a  tool  subservient  to 
criticism,  then  criticism  in  its  own  rights  has  to  go  far  beyond  the 
results  of  style  investigation  by  means  certainly  intuitive,  and 
style  analysis  outside  the  Bally  pattern  would  become  meaning- 


258  Theory  of  Style  1448-1455 

less  as  not  having  the  qualification  of  a  science  either.  One  of 
the  earliest  attempts  at  circumscribing  style  investigation  as  a 
science  came  from  Edward  P.  MORRIS  — 1448 —  "A  Science 
of  Style,"  Transactions  and  Proceedings  of  the  American  Philo- 
logical Association,  XLVI  (1915),  103-118,  particularly  115-116. 
This  theory,  considering  style  investigation  as  the  reliable  dis- 
tillation of  the  artistic  essence  of  a  text,  was  vitalized  in  the 
theoretical  part  of  the  work  of  Leo  SPITZER.  Various  of  his 
articles  like  — 1449 —  "Zur  sprachlichen  Interpretation  von 
Wortkunstwerken,"  NJ,  VI  (1930),  632-651,  or  —1450— 
"Sprachwissenschaft  und  Wortkunst,"  in  Stilstudien,  II,  1-17 
(no.  289),  defend  the  thesis  that  linguistic-aesthetic  trends  of 
style,  if  discovered,  are  bound  to  reveal  the  meaning  and  psycho- 
logy of  an  author  and  his  work;  — 1451 —  "Wortkunst  und 
Sprachwissenschaft,"  ib.,  498-535,  lays  stress  on  style  analysis  as 
an  extortion  of  the  ef fable  from  the  ineffable  individual ;  finally, 
the  first  essay  in  L.  SPITZER  — 1452 —  Linguistics  and  Literary 
History  (Princeton  Univ.  Press,  1948),  1-39,  epitomizes  all 
these  possibilities  in  style  studies.  Less  appreciation  than  denigra- 
tion of  Spitzer's  stylistic  method  as  simply  a  "critique  de  beautes 
litteraires"  comes  from  Jean  HYTIER  —1453—  "La  methode 
de  M.  Leo  Spitzer,"  RR,  XLI  (1950),  42-59. 

DAmaso  ALONSO,  who  announced  his  program  himself  in 
— 1454 —  "Hacia  un  conocimiento  cientifico  de  la  obra  poetica," 
Insula,  V  (15  Octubre,  1950),  has  established  in  the  most  radical 
form  the  principle  that  literary  investigation  can  be  concerned 
only  with  stylistic  analysis,  but  that  this  analysis  does  not  at  all 
exhaust  the  possibilities  of  knowing  the  artefact.  DAmaso 
ALONSO  — 1455 —  Poesia  espanola.  Ensayo  de  metodos  y  limites 
estilisticos.  Madrid:  Biblioteca  Romanica  Hispanica  II,  1950, 
starts  from  the  position  of  Saussure  and  Bally.  He  denies,  how- 
ever, that  language  in  practice  can  ever  be  separated  from  speech. 
He  denies,  furthermore,  that  the  affective  element  alone  can  ever 
be  a  criterion  for  establishing  the  domain  of  style  versus  the  do- 
main of  grammar.  The  only  worthy  object  of  style  studies  is  the 
language  of  the  literary  artist.  Everybody  is  free  to  include  any 
speaker,  i.e.  original  speaker  in  the  category  of  artists.  ,  But 
Alonso  refutes  categorically  the  thesis  that  the  non-artist  is  of 
any  interest  for  a  style  study.  We  agree  with  him  in  this  point 
as  well  as  in  the  other  that  writing  for  "beauty's  sake"  and 
similar  inept  formulas,  must  be  rejected ;  for  it  may  be  proved 


1456-1457  Style  Criticism  259 

with  good  reason  that  even  the  average  speaker  is  as  conscious 
of  the  effects  of  his  speech  on  the  hearer  as  is  the  artist.  But 
nobody  would  say  that  any  speaker  does  it  for  "beauty's  sake." 
Artist  and  speaker  express  themselves.  In  this  expression  the 
unconscious  elements  are  stronger.  In  each  "speech,"  poetic  or 
not,  artistic  or  not,  there  is  likewise  an  inseparable  unit  of  con- 
cept, emotion  and  imagination.  Consequently  the  object  of 
stylistics  is  to  work  out  in  each  individual  case  the  unicity  of  this 
compound  against  the  foil  of  a  common  linguistic  background.  In 
Damaso  Alonso's  sound  theory,  made  foolproof  by  his  practical 
examples,  there  are  distinguishable  acceptance  and  rejection  of 
other  theories.  Thus  D.  Alonso  shares  by  coincidence  the  ideas 
on  style  of  Iorgu  Iordan  and  Josef  Nadler,  both  of  whom  he 
seems  not  to  know;  however,  he  rejects  with  good  arguments 
Benedetto  Croce  as  well  as  Prince  Trubetzkoy  and  the  whole 
structural  school.  Spitzer  checks  Alonso's  method  against  his 
own  in  RF,  LXIV,  I  (1952). 

Charles  BALLY  — 1456 —  U etude  systematique  des  moyens 
d' expression  (Geneve,  1910),  and  "Stylistique  et  linguistique 
generate,"  ANS,  CXXVIII  (1912),  87-126  (no.  1240),  would  not 
think  of  combining  stylistics  and  criticism.  He  has  fixed  per- 
manently the  role  of  style  investigation  within  the  framework  of 
his  system  of  linguistics.  He  rejects  the  consideration  of  any 
historical  factors,  and  demands  that  after  a  period  has  been 
chosen  for  style  investigation,  the  investigation  be  exclusively 
descriptive  but  comprehensive: 

Elle  doit  s'attacher  a  toutes  les  manifestations  .  .  .;  son  ob- 
servation porte  ou  bien  sur  les  caracteres  objectifs  de  la  langue 
(stylistique   externe)    ou   bien  sur  les   types-expressifs   que   cette 
langue  met  en  oeuvre  pour  rendre  les  mouvements  de  la  vie  de 
Fesprit   (p.   126). 

Bally  with  his  stylistique  externe  makes  only  a  few  concessions 
to  Lerch  and  Strohmeyer,  while  he  himself  makes  his  decision 
for  the  affective  stylistique  interne. 

In  the  early  twenties  no  one  was  interested  in  a  clarification 
of  the  meaning  of  literary  Stilforschung  in  the  Romance  field. 
There  was  only  Oskar  Walzel  in  the  German  field,  who  tried 
desperately  to  reorientate  literary  history  and  criticism  along 
stylistic  principles  and  to  find  a  basis  for  such  a  reorientation. 
Therefore  Helmut  HATZFELD  —1457—  "Gehalt  und  Gestalt," 
SW  (1928),  241-260,  followed  the  pattern  of  Oscar  WALZEL 


260  Theory  of  Style  1458-1465 

— 1458 —  Gehalt  und  Gestalt  im  Kunstwerk  des  Dichters  (Pots- 
dam: Athenaion,  1924  ff.),  replacing  the  latter's  German  ex- 
amples by  Romance  ones,  but  adhering  in  the  main  to  the  stylis- 
tic plan  of  possible  investigations  in  the  direction  of  an  objective 
aesthetic  criticism.  But  how?  By  a  gigantic  inventory  of  style- 
elements?  The  Latinist  and  Romanist  J.  MAROUZEAU,  theori- 
cian  of  style  on  his  own,  is  definitely  opposed  to  this  type  of  analy- 
sis which  would  consist,  he  says,  of  endless  repetitions  of  the  same 
elements  for  all  the  works  to  be  analyzed.  He  wants  to  create  a 
science  of  expressivite  and  affectivite  to  study  selectively  inter- 
esting expression-forms  throughout  literatures  and  languages. 
He  has  expressed  these  views  again  in  his  articles  — 1459 — 
"Langue  et  Style,"  Conferences  de  Vlnstitut  de  linguistique 
(Paris:  Boivin,  1943),  in  — 1460 —  "Comment  aborder  Petude 
du  style,"  FM,  XI  (1943) ,  1-7,  and  in  —1461—  "Les  taches  de  la 
stylistique,"  Melanges  J.  Rozwadowski  (Cracow,  1927),  vol.  I, 
47-51. 

That  the  methods  of  Vossler  and  Spitzer  are  not  incompatible 
with  selective  tests  may  be  seen  from  statements  and  practice  of 
these  masters  themselves  as  well  as  from  their  appraisal  by 
Emil  WINKLER  —1462—  "Die  neuen  Wege  und  Aufgaben  der 
Stilistik,"  NS,  XXXIII  (1923),  407-22.  Ulrich  LEO  —1463— 
"Historie  und  Stilmonographie,  Grundsatzliches  zur  Stilfor- 
schung,"  DV,  IX  (1931),  472-503,  in  striking  contrast  to  Marou- 
zeau,  would  not  shrink  from  the  repetition  of  the  same  procedure 
for  all  the  authors  and  is  not  afraid  of  innumerable,  critical, 
linear  versions  of  texts  and  an  extensive  style  library  as  the 
only  precondition  for  having  artistic  material  collected  for  the 
new  literary  history  of  the  future. 

ZYGMUNT  LEMPICKI  —1464 —  Voies  et  buts  de  la  stylis- 
tique moderne,  or  Zagadnienie  stylu  (The  Problem  of  Style) 
(Warszawa,  1937),  fuses  the  "Ausdruckswissenschaft"  of  the 
Munich  School  with  the  Russian  formalistic  method  of  Vino- 
gradoff  without  making  a  point  of  the  critical  function  of  formal 
analyzing.  The  Russian  formalistic  method  (politically  taboo  in 
Russia  today)  fundamentally  based  on  style,  was  explained  to 
the  Romance  scholars  outside  Russia  by  A.  N.  WOSNESSENSKY 
—1465 —  "Aufbau  der  Literaturwissenschaft,"  IPh,  III  (1928), 
337-369.  The  "Gestaltpsychologie"  has  stressed  the  investigation 
of  the  literary  organism  as  a  whole  as  well  as  a  compound  of  de- 
tails, so  that  a  structural  psychology  of  a  literary  work  of  art 


1466-1474  Style  Criticism  261 

would  leave  little  room  for  a  critical  approach  over  and  above  the 
stylistic  analysis.  This  problem  was  stressed  by  F.  I.  BILLES- 
KOV  JANSEN  —1466—  "Totalitet  og  Detalje  i  Aestetisk  Litera- 
turforskning,"  OL,  III,  (1945),  209-218.  Thus  in  recent  years 
all  discussions  on  style  investigation  lead  to  the  rather  radical 
conclusion  that  it  coincides  with  scholarly  criticism,  and  history 
of  style  with  the  only  reasonable  type  of  history  of  literature  as 
history  of  verbal  art. 

Literary  criticism  as  the  outcome  of  style  investigation  finds 
a  basis  in  David  Watson  RANNIE  — 1467 —  The  Elements  of 
Style.  An  Introduction  to  Literary  Criticism  (no.  1357),  and  in 
F.  J.  SNIJMAN  — 1468 —  Literere  Styl  met  die  oog  op  Stylonder- 
zoek  (Assen,  1945).  The  whole  problem  was  presented  in  the 
mise  au  point  form  by  Helmut  HATZFELD  — 1469 —  "Stylistic 
Criticism  as  Art-minded  Philology,"  YFS,  II  (1949)  (no.  86) .  His 
viewpoint,  which  finds  objective  criticism  possible  simply  through 
style  analysis,  almost  coincides  with  W.  K.  WIMSATT  — 1470— 
"The  Structure  of  the  'Concrete  Universal'  in  Literature," 
PMLA,  LXII  (1947),  262-280.  Mario  APOLLONO  —1471— 
Critica  ed  esegesi  (Firenze:  Marzocco,  1947),  with  four  theoreti- 
cal and  twelve  practical  essays  drives  at  this  critical  problem 
par  excellence  of  an  aesthetic  philology  in  his  way: 

la  filologia  .  .  .  come  partecipazione  animata  e  rifiessiva  alia 
vita  storica  delle  forme  espressive   (p.  80)    ...  per  ricuperare  il 
testo    poetico    nella    sua    purita    e    primordialita    suggestiva    (p. 
80-83). 

Mario  FUBINI  —1472—  "Critica  e  Poesia,"  Belfagor,  V  (1950) , 
497-513,  insists  that  any  serious  critic  must  know  the  critical 
work  done  by  others  before  him  on  the  same  subject. 
Thus  stylistic  criticism  on  an  objective  basis  soon  will  be  the 
only  one  with  a  raison  d'etre ;  it  actually  will  be  art-minded  phil- 
ology. More  moderate  Giacomo  DEVOTO  — 1473 —  "Introduc- 
tion a  la  Stylistique,"  Melanges  de  Philologie  offerts  a  J.  Marou- 
zeau  (Paris,  1948),  defends  his  own  practice  of  stylistic  detail 
analysis  as  a  unique  possibility  to  help  the  intuition  of  the  critic, 
but  by  no  means  to  create  it. 

Fernando  LAZARO  —1474—  "Estilistica  y  Critica  literaria," 
Insula,  no.  59  (Nov.  15,  1950),  like  Damaso  Alonso,  stresses  a 
supposed  radical  difference  between  stylistic  and  literary  cri- 
ticism in  the  sense  that  stylistics  does  not  possess  any  means 
of  evaluation;  consequently  it  can  not  become  criticism  itself. 


262  Theory  of  Style  1475-1478 

The  sound  relation  would  be  subordination  of  stylistics  to  cri- 
ticism; the  maximum  concession  to  the  style  investigators  could 
be  a  system  of  coordinates  in  which  the  one  coordinate  would  be 
stylistics,  the  other  criticism.  Theophile  SPOERRI  — 1475 — 
"Elements  d'une  critique  constructive,,,  T,  VIII  (1950),  165-187, 
underlines  the  fact  that  the  style  analysis  of  the  structure  of  an 
artefact  reveals  with  certainty  the  attitude  toward  life  behind 
it,  i.e.  it  reveals  beyond  the  aesthetic  a  metaphysical  phenomenon, 
namely  either  the  merely  aesthetic  behavior  which  coincides  with 
metaphysical  despair,  or  the  spiritual  behavior  which  coincides 
with  liberation.  In  other  words,  the  artefact  even  of  an  author 
who  does  not  accept  reality  as  it  is  by  indulging  in  art  for  art's 
sake,  opens  an  existence  which  transcends  the  work  of  art.  Here 
evaluation  is  involved  in  the  style  analysis  itself  from  the  out- 
set. Style  analysis  assuming  the  function  of  criticism  would 
also  make  bold  to  decide  whether  or  not  literary  history  is  pos- 
sible as  a  history  of  valuable  works  of  art,  rather  than  as  an 
inventory  of  unqualified  writings. 

Michel  DRAGOMIRESCU  —1476—  La  science  de  la  littera- 
ture  (3  vols.;  Paris:  Gamber,  1928),  has  the  most  radical  view- 
point on  stylistics  which  he  calls  literary  technology.  He  believes 
that  having  selected  and  analyzed  the  masterworks  of  world  lit- 
erature from  all  angles  with  an  aesthetic,  strictly  anti-historical 
approach,  one  must  arrive  at  an  aesthetic-critical  synthesis  which 
is  self-evident  to  everybody,  so  that  there  will  be 

only  one  opinion  as  to  value  and  character  of  a  master  work. 
Then  only  will  happen  in  the  Science  of  Literature  what  occurs 
quite  naturally  in  the  Natural  Sciences   (I,  169), 

namely  there  would  be  no  history  of  masterworks,  as  there  is  no 
history  of  minerals. 

The  compatibility  of  stylistics  with  literary  history  as  history 
of  stylistic  art  was  explained  by  J.  VAN  DAM  — 1477 —  "Litera- 
turgeschichte  als  Stilgeschichte,,,  Neo,  XXIV  (1938),  319-23. 
It  has  been  even  widely  recognized  that  all  other  trends  of  literary 
scholarship  have  proved  a  failure  since  they  have  represented  a 
flight  from  the  real  thing,  which  is  and  remains  the  work  of 
art  expressed  by  language.  Particularly  has  the  history  of  ideas 
come  to  a  deadlock,  according  to  a  very  competent  scholar  both  in 
the  fields  of  history  of  style  and  history  of  ideas :  Karl  VIETOR 
— 1478 —  "Deutsche  Literaturgeschichte  als  Geistesgeschichte," 
PMLA,  LX  (1945),  899-916.  Vietor,  too,  points  out  that  style  in- 


1479-1483  Style  Criticism  263 

vestigation  is  the  raison  d'etre  of  literary  history.  Rene  WEL- 
LEK  and  Austin  WARREN  — 1479 —  Theory  of  Literature 
(New  York:  Harcourt,  1949),  do  practically  the  same  thing  in 
centering  their  "ergocentric"  theory  around  the  literary  work 
of  art  and  dedicating  to  style,  metaphor,  genre,  metrics  and 
language  the  lion's  share  of  their  introduction  to  the  study  of 
literature. 

In  1942,  for  the  first  time  in  history,  a  periodical  for  style 
investigation  called  TRIVIUM  — 1480 —  was  founded  in  Switzer- 
land. It  was  edited  by  Theophil  Spoerri  and  Emil  Staiger  and  car- 
ried the  subtitle:  Schweizerische  Vierteljahrsschrift  fur  Litera- 
turwissenschdft  und  StiUstik  (Zurich:  Atlantis verlag) .  Now  in 
its  ninth  year,  this  most  refined  organ  of  criticism  subsided, 
leaving  the  lead  to  ideology-minded  magazines  like  Journal 
of  the  History  of  Ideas  and  the  Deutsche  Vierteljahrsschrift  fiir 
Liter aturwissenschaft  und  Geistesgeschichte  in  clarifying  the 
purpose  of  studying  literature  and  literary  history.  Another  lead- 
ing critical  literary  periodical  in  stylistic  studies  is  the  Danish 
ORBIS  LITTERARUM  —1481—  edited  by  F.  I.  Billeskov  Jansen. 
The  new  American  periodical  COMPARATIVE  LITERATURE 
— 1482 —  edited  by  Chandler  B.  Beall  and  Werner  P.  Friederich, 
has  a  fair  chance  to  develop  in  the  same  direction.  Among  the 
smaller  periodical  publications  it  is  INSULA  (Madrid)  — 1483 — 
which  shows  the  greatest  interest  in  the  problem  of  stylistics  as 
a  means  of  criticism. 


ADDENDA  I 

Ad  261  Aurelio  ESPINOSA  P6LIT  —1484  —"La  traduc- 
cion  como  obra  de  arte,"  BICC,  V  (1949),  332-355,  is  an  excellent 
study  on  the  impossibility  of  translating  foreign  verse  in  its  own 
metrical  system,  since  the  different  spirit  of  the  languages  does 
not  admit  of  this.  If  Hartzenbusch  translates  in  its  correct  meter 
Manzoni's  II  Cinque  Maggio,  the  too  numerous  sdruccioli  make 
the  translation  look  rather  odd  and  exotic,  not  Spanish.  If  Al- 
fonso Menendez  Plancarte  in  his  metrica  latinizante  imitates  the 
Horatian  metres  he  overlooks  the  interplay  of  metrical  and  pro- 
sodic  accents ;  he  only  makes  "endecasilabos  rubendarianos"  out 
of  the  Asclepiadean  verses. 

Ad  342  Maria  Rosa  LIDA  DE  MALKIEL  —1485—  Juan  de 
Mena,  poeta  del  prerenacimiento  espanol  (El  Colegio  de  Mexico: 
NRFH,  1950),  with  the  chapters  Prosa,  125-156,  Estilo,  157-230, 
Lengua,  231-322,  Critica,  323-398,  Influenpia,  399-526,  represents 
a  turning  point  in  style  investigation.  Mena's  style  is  analyzed 
after  its  elements  have  been  stated  in  all  possible  classical  and 
medieval  sources.  Then  the  style  is  taken  under  a  magnifying 
glass  to  find  what  is  original  and  why  it  is  original  in  Mena.  At 
this  point  is  discussed  the  verbal  creation  of  Mena  within  the 
originally  handled  topoi  and  "figures  of  speech,"  a  creation  which 
concerns  mainly  genuine  Latinisms.  cultisms,  derivations,  smaller 
syntagmata  and  hyperbata.  The  still  lacking  integration  as 
compared  to  Gongora  is  checked  by  the  not  exclusively  stylistic 
Mena-criticism  throughout  the  centuries.  Finally  the  stylistic 
influence  of  Mena  on  Juan  de  Padilla,  Encina,  Gil  Vicente  and 
many  others  is  proved.  The  imitations  themselves  working  like 
exaggerating  and  illuminating  flashlights  cause  Mena's  art 
to  be  seen  in  a  still  sharper  way.  The  gravamina  uttered  by 
Curtius  and  Spitzer  against  the  subjective  vs.  historic  style 
investigation  are  here  marvelously  silenced  by  a  harmoniza- 
tion of  taste  and  philology.  Damaso  Alonso's  concept  of  a  strict 
science  of  literature  based  on  exact  style  analysis  seems  material- 
ized and  Mario  Fubini's  concern  that  any  new  criticism  on  an 
older  work  must  consider  the  older  criticisms  is  here  meticulously 
taken  into  consideration. 

Ad  426  Walter  NIEDERMANN  —1486—  Versuch  iiber 
Maurice  Sceves  Dichtung,  Diss.,  Zurich,  1950,  gives  some  good 
interpretations,  but  is  far  away  from  a  strictly  stylistic  study 


1484-1489  Addenda  I  265 

and  loses  all  the  more  value  in  being  written  after  the  penetrating 
aesthetic  remarks  of  V.  L.  Saulnier  in  his  thesis  on  Maurice  Sceve. 

Ad  438  Otto  BEERLI  — 1487 —  La  prose  de  Juste  Olivier, 
Diss.,  Zurich,  1949,  presents  the  local  historian  of  the  Canton 
of  Vaud  who  wrote  in  1837  a  romantic  geographic-historic 
presentation  of  he  Canton  de  Vaud,  sa  vie,  son  histoire,  as  a 
particular  master  of  a  dynamic  descriptive  colorful  style  in 
which  the  imagination  makes  out  of  the  every  day  world  "un 
monde  endimanche."  Very  illuminating  is  the  critical-analytical 
confrontation  of  Olivier's  and  Goethe's  descriptions  of  the  alpine 
view  from  the  "Dent  de  Vaulion." 

Ad  693  Carlos  BOUSOftO  — 1488 —  La  poesia  de  Vicente 
Aleixandre.  Imagen.  Estilo.  Mundo  Poetico  (Madrid:  Ediciones 
Insula,  1950),  not  only  penetrates  from  the  versification  and 
syntax  to  the  meaning  of  Aleixandre's  poetry,  but  he  uses  Damaso 
Alonso's  "mathematical"  method  to  explain  the  superrealistic 
technique  of  the  poet  in  the  superposition  and  integration  of  sym- 
bol, vision  and  visionary  image.  While  the  sources  for  all  these 
elements  may  be  found  in  Becquer,  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz,  Ruben 
Dario  and,  as  far  as  the  synaesthesia  is  concerned,  Don  Juan 
Ramon  Jimenez,  the  continued  visionary  picture  seems  entirely 
new,  although  based  on  phraseology,  burlesque  habits  and  oniric 
reminiscenses.  As  in  the  title  Espadas  como  labios  the  planes  of 
reality  are  exchanged,  so  images  and  images  developed  from 
images  are  superposed  to  a  dream  reality  in  Aleixandre's  whole 
lyric  vision.  His  lyrical  language  says  "C  como  B  es  A"  instead 
of  the  prose  "A  es  B  como  C,"  as  illustrated  by  the  example  from 
'Cobra'  (La  Destruccion  o  el  Amor) . 

Aleixandre's  vision : 
Relojes  como  pulsos 
en  los  arboles  quietos  son  pajaros 
cuyas  gargantas  cuelgan. 

Bousonos'  Prose  version : 
En  los  arboles  quietos,  pajaros 
cuyas  gargantas  cuelgan,  son  pulsos 
como  relojes. 

That  despite  any  complication  of  this  formula  the  poetical  struc- 
ture of  Aleixandre's  work  never  can  escape  the  principle  of 
Bousonos'  system  derived  from  and  applied  to  it,  actually  is 
one  of  the  triumphs  of  the  new  Spanish  style  investigation. 
Ad  694     E.  NEALE-SILVA  —1489—  "El  arte  poetico  de 


c 

como 

B 

es 

A 

A 

es 

B 

como 

C 

266  Addenda  I  1490 

Jose  Eustasio  Rivera,"  RHM,  XIV  (1948),  193-271,  and  as  book 
(New  York:  Casa  hispanica,  1951),  analyzes  most  carefully 
meaning  structure  (aspecto  semantico),  sound  structure  (forma 
y  proceso)  and  architecture  (estructura-metrica)  of  the  collec- 
tion of  fifty-five  sonnets  called  Tierra  de  promision  as  an  ex- 
pression of  the  tropical  nature  of  the  Colombian  selva,  llanura 
and  montanas  previous  to  La  Vordgine,  envisioned  by  a  primiti- 
vistic  mind  and  heart.  There  is  no  symbolic  interpretation  but 
only  observation  and  description  of  impassive  landscape  framing 
the  brutal  and  crude  sex  life,  the  killing  and  dying  of  animals.  A 
skeleton  of  substantives,  precise  and  unique,  surrounded  by  un- 
usually rich  determinatives,  qualifying  adjectives  and  ornamental 
epitheta  and  a  scarcity  of  verbs,  mostly  used  in  the  present  tense, 
supports  the  endless  and  never  boring  descriptions  leading  from 
the  details  to  the  general  in  a  cumulative  additive  technique, 
barely  linking  the  single  elements.  Rivera's  empathy  with  this 
nature  does  not  go  without  a  psychology  of  sadness,  anguish,  soli- 
tude and  melancholy,  but  reveals  also  "la  vivencia  de  la  cordillera 
andina  sentida  como  monumentalidad  y  exaltacion."  The  differ- 
ent perspectives  of  landscape  are  based  on  different  adverbial 
expressions  conveying  space  and  time  (Cuando  ya;  al  +  in- 
finitive). The  comparisons  are  no  analogies,  but  descriptive 
"equivalencias" :  "la  cola  juega  Como  un  cordon  indocil  sobre  el 
anca."  The  shaded  colorfulness  is  striking:  "Es  un  pez  nacarino 
que  irisandose  juega."  The  most  striking  feature  is  the  frequency 
of  the  monumental  nominativus  pendens,  called  by  Neale-Silva 
"adjetivo  distanciado,"  the  ternary  movement  of  the  verse  and 
the  preference  for  "esdrujulos"  and  the  suffix  aje  as  well  as 
the  harmonization  of  extreme  onomatopoetic  sounds. 

Ad  789  Henri  MORIER  — 1490 —  Le  rythme  du  vers  sym- 
boliste,  II:  Henri  de  Regnier  (Geneve:  Les  Presses  Academiques, 
1943),  III:  Viele-Griffin  (ib.,  1944),  proves  that  in  Henri  de 
Regnier's  prosody  the  meaning  decides  everything  according  to 
his  principle:  "J'ai  sacrifie  l'harmonie  au  mouvement."  Morier 
distinguishes  a  vers  amphisbene,  which  like  a  serpent  of  this 
name,  can  move  in  two  directions.  Similarly  he  sees  different 
types  of  eleven  syllable  lines  as  energetique,  emphatique,  defail- 
lant,  polaire,  other  groupings  appear  as  dynamique,  suspensif, 
amorti,  agressif,  sans  mystere.  The  main  secret  of  these  verse 
types  is  the  numerus  impendens  or  cesure  enjambante. 

The  picture  of  Viele-Griffin  is  quite  different.    Here  lines  of 


1491-1494  Addenda  I  267 

13,  11,  9,  7,  5  syllables  with  many  apocopes  and  "e"  muets  are 
linked  to  "petits"  and  "grands"  vers  libres  carves,  lyriques, 
epiques,  mixtes  and  to  proses  alineaires.  Their  expressivity  i3 
enormous  and  ranges  from  static  and  symmetric  serenity  to  dy- 
namic irregularity,  from  haste  to  energy,  from  rather  formless 
affective  exuberance,  joy,  fear,  sorrow  to  strictly  formal  move- 
ments of  the  flight  of  doves  and  the  shimmering  of  waves.  These 
studies  represent  a  serious  continuation  of  Grammont's  efforts. 
Ad  808  VlTTORlO  LUGLI  — 1491 —  Lo  stile  wdiretto  libero 
in  Flaubert  e  in  Verga  (Bologna:  Azzoguidi,  1943),  is  the  only 
Italian  contribution  to  the  famous  stylistic  problem  since  1921 
when  Leo  Spitzer  made  some  short  remarks  in  GRM  on  this 
matter.  Lugli  finds  that  in  Italy  a  line  entirely  independent  from 
Flaubert  and  Zola  leads  to  the  same  substitutionary  report,  start- 
ing with  Manzoni  and  culminating  in  Verga's  Malavoglia. 

Ad  1181  Carlo  CALCATERRA  —1492—  "II  problema  del 
barocco,"  in  U.  Bosco  et  al.  Qnestioni  e  correnti  di  storia  let- 
teraria  (Milano:  Marzorati,  1949),  pp.  405-501,  tries  to  explain 
the  baroque  style  as  an  exclusively  Italian  phenomenon  with 
manneristic  exaggerations  as  well  as  tasteful  moderations. 
Baroque,  accordingly,  are  the  authors:  Marino,  Bruno,  Campa- 
nella,  Sarpi,  Pallavicino,  Bartoli,  Segneri,  Galilei,  Redi,  Maga- 
lotti,  Emanuele  Tesauro,  Secondo  Lancellotti,  Muti,  Brignole, 
Sali,  Lengueglia,  Morando,  Frugoni,  Loredano,  Vico.  Among 
bibliographical  items,  he  refers  to  Enrico  Falqui,  the  style  in- 
vestigator, and  the  Introduction  to  his  Antologia  della  prosa  scien- 
tifica  italiana  del  Seicento  (Firenze:  Vallecchi,  1943),  2  vols. 

Ad  1365  Elise  RICHTER  —1493—  "Sprachpsychologie 
und  Stilistik,"  ANS,  CLVI  (1929),  203-214,  discussing  the  ideas 
of  Emil  Winkler  draws  a  very  fine  borderline  between  the  Bally 
Stylistics  and  the  Vossler  Stylistics  and  unites  both  harmoniously 
with  the  hint  that,  not  dependent  on  the  aesthetic  or  not  aes- 
thetic intention  of  a  speaker  or  writer,  the  listener,  reader  or 
critic  is  always  free  in  adopting  the  aesthetic  viewpoint  "wie  ja 
eine  Rose  am  Stil  auch  aesthetisch  betrachtet  werden  kann, 
obgleich  sie  nicht  als  Kunstwerk  geschaffen  ist." 

Ad  1393  GlACOMO  DEVOTO  —1494—  Studi  di  stilistica 
(Firenze:  Monnier,  1950),  thinks  that  language  is  first  of  all  an 
institution  in  so  far  as  it  is  grammar.  But  is  is  also  an  instru- 
ment in  so  far  as  it  admits  of  selection  between  contrasting  tra- 
ditions.   The  elements  which  have  their  systematic  arrangement 


268  Addenda  I  1495-1505 

in  the  grammatical  institution  can  be  rearranged  endlessly 
through  individual  initiative.  Thus  the  linguistic  instrument  pro- 
vides for  individual  styles.  In  these  styles,  however,  extra-gram- 
matical elements  are  added.  They  produce  structure  (quadro), 
musicality  and  rhythm  (cornice)  and  a  conscious  chiseling  of 
all  the  elements  by  the  writer  (la  quarta  dimensione) .  The 
previous  studies  of  Devoto  on  the  styles  of  Gadda,  Fogazzaro, 
D'Annunzio,  Proust,  Italo  Svevo,  Pascoli  and  Santa  Caterina  da 
Siena  are  appended  as  practical  exemplifications  (see  nos.  745, 
746). 

Ad  1456  Fernando  Antonio  MARTINEZ  —1495—  "Un 
aspecto  de  la  teoria  estilistica,"  BICC,  V  (1949),  242-248,  tries 
to  solve  a  serious  difficulty  left  unsolved  by  Bally:  The  affective 
usage  of  the  language  certainly  can  not  be  the  only  raison  d'etre 
for  creating  style.  Not  only  the  speaker's  sensibility,  but  also 
his  imagination  and  fancy  are  enkindled  by  extra-linguistic  phae- 
nomena  which  determine  the  choice  of  expressive  means.  These, 
it  is  true  in  most  of  the  cases,  seem  entirely  ready  made  in  the 
language.  Consequently  stylistics  is  concerned  first  with  the 
emotive-imaginative  reactions  of  the  speaker  groping  for  virtual 
linguistic  forms  of  expression;  second,  with  these  expressive 
forms  as  actually  stored  in  the  idiom:  "Estas  reacciones  nadan 
como  peces  esquivos  en  la  corriente  del  idioma  y  al  investigador  a 
veces  solo  le  es  dado  percibir  su  eterno  girar  y  movimiento.,, 

Ad  1476  Guy  MICHAUD  —1496—  Introduction  a  une 
science  de  la  litterature  (Istanbul:  Pulhan  Matbaasi,  1950),  has 
a  stylistic-structural  chapter  called  "L'oeuvre,"  pp.  141-188.  Un- 
fortunately, based  only  on  Dragomirescu,  Hytier,  Cressot  and 
Audiat,  the  stylistic  approach  is  very  deficient,  since  the  interest 
is  shifted  to  the  psychoanalysis  of  the  author.  The  structural 
part  has  a  certain  originality  by  distinctions  such  as  roman- 
tapisserie,  roman-fugue,  roman-tableau,  syntaxe  des  personnages 
versus  syntaxe  de  I'intrigue,  structures  sonores,  valeur  impres- 
sive des  rimes,  and  infrastructure  affective  inconsciente.  It 
seems,  however,  that  the  science  of  literature  through  stylistics 
as  conceived  by  Damaso  Alonso  is  based  on  more  solid  grounds 
(see  no.  1455). 


ADDENDA  II 

Titles  from  recent  years  with  some  short  characterizations : 
Ad    6     B.    SCHLUMBERGER    —1497—   L' explication    lit- 
teraire  (London:  Harap,  1951). 

Ad  30  Pierre  MICHEL  — 1498 —  Expliquez-moi  Ronsard 
(Paris:  Foucher,  1949),  vol.  I:  La  carriere  du  poete,  vol.  II: 
Poesies  lyriques  choisies  et  commentees.     Georges  BOUSQUIE 

1499 —   Expliquez-moi    Corneille    a    travers    Cinna    (Paris: 

Foucher,  1950) ,  2  vols.  Pierre  CHARDON  —1500—  Expliquez- 
moi  Balzac  (Paris:  Foucher,  1950),  2  vols.    Pierre  CHARDON 

1500a — Expliquez-moi  Marcel  Proust  (Paris:  Foucher,  1949). 

Georges  GRIMMER  —1501—  Expliquez-moi  "L'Art  poetique" 
de  Boileau  (Paris:  Foucher,  1950),  2  vols.  Many  other  volumes 
of  about  100  pages  each  in  preparation. 

Ad  34  Elisabeth  BROCK-SULZER  —1502—  "Rimbaud, 
Les  Effares,"  T,  IX  (1951),  34-43. 

Ad  38  Marcel  FRANQON  —1503—  "L'ode  de  Ronsard,  Bel 
Aubepin,"  FR,  XXV  (1951),  90-95. 

Ad  61  Claude  ROULET  — 1503a —  Nouveaux  elements  de 
poetique  mallarmeenne  (Neuchatel:  Griffon,  1950)  ;  stresses  clas- 
sical and  dramatic  character  foreshadowing  surrealism. 

Ad  83     Damaso  ALONSO  — 1504 —  Poesia  y  novela  de  Es- 
pana  (Lima:  Extension  Cultural  de  la  Universidad  Nacional, 
1949).    First  Spanish  contribution  to  the  explication  de  texte: 
1.  Garcilaso  y  los  limites  de  la  estilistica,  pp.  9-26;  2.  Forma  y 
espiritu  en  la  poesia  de  Fray  Luis  de  Leon,  pp.  27-45 ;  3.  Plurali- 
dad  de  estilos  en  la  poesia  de  Lope  de  Vega,  pp.  46-61 ;  4.  Freno  e 
impulso  en  la  poesia  de  Jorge  Guillen,  pp.  62-79.    Excellent  inter- 
pretations.    See  no.  1455.     Damaso  ALONSO  y  Carlos  BOU- 
SOnO  — 1505 —  Seis  calas  en  la  expresion  literaria  espanola 
(Madrid:  Biblioteca  Romanica  Hispanica,  1951),  anticipating 
their  common  work  Estilistica  del  Petrarquismo  y  del  siglo  de 
oro,  the  authors  submit  to  the  general  public  an  ample  illustra- 
tion through  explications  de  texte  of  Damaso  Alonso's  great  find- 
ing of  the  plurimembracion  as  a  fundamental  stylistic  principle 
throughout  all  the  kinds  and  centuries  of  Spanish  literature,  ar- 
ranged according  to  types  of  paratactic  coordination  and  hypo- 
tactic  parallelism,  their  meltings  and  crossings,  ramifications, 
subdivisons  and  specifications  among  which  the  disseminative- 


270  Addenda  II  1506-1511 

recollective  type  becomes  even  the  structural  principle  of  Cal- 
der6n,s  drama. 

Ad  111  Charles  BRUNEAU  —1506—  "La  stylistique," 
RPh,  V  (1951),  1-14,  only  admits  individually  selected  syntag- 
mata as  style.  Leo  SPITZER  —1506a—  "Les  theories  de  la 
stylistique,"  FM,  XX  (1952),  165-168,  refuses  to  accept  Bru- 
neau's  "stylistique  pure"  as  being  scientific  versus  "critique 
stylistique"  as  being  subjective.  He  thinks  the  difference  is 
"stylistique  ennuyeuse,  banale"  versus  "stylistique  de  talent." 
The  "founder"  of  stylistics  is  not  Bally  but  Herting  (1837). 

Ad  116  Bruno  ADRIANI  — 1506b —  Vber  das  Lesen  franzo- 
sischer  lyrischer  Dichtungen  (Ulm:  Aegis  Verlag,  1952).  From 
external  beauty  to  poetic  essence  through  melody,  rhythm,  ac- 
cent, pauses,  etc. 

Ad  124  CRITICUS  —1507—  he  style  au  microscope,  II 
(Paris:  Calmann  Levy,  1951):  Jeunes  Gloires:  Herve  Bazin, 
Simone  de  Beauvoir,  A.  Camus,  J.  J.  Gautier,  R.  Merle,  R.  Peyre- 
fitte,  Prevert,  R.  Queneau,  J.  Roy,  E.  Triolet;  and  III:  Drama- 
turges (ibid.,  1952). 

Ad  138  Marcel  CASTAY  — 1507a —  Entretiens  exemplaires 
(Paris:  Librairie  Les  Lettres,  1950);  very  good  pastiches  of 
styles  of  Claudel,  Gide,  Proust.  Jacques  LAURENT  et  Claude 
MARTINE  — 1507a —  Neuf  perles  de  culture;  pastiches  de  Jean 
Giraudoux,  J. -P.  Sartre,  Audiberti,  Henri  de  Montherlant,  Paul 
Claudel,  Jean  Cocteau,  Albert  Camus,  Frangois  Mauriac,  Jean 
Anouilh  (Paris:  Gallimard,  1952). 

Ad  175  Adolfo  JENNI  —1507b—  "Lo  stile  composite  set- 
tecentesco  nella  redazione  definitiva  e  anteriore  della  'Vita*  di 
Alfieri,"  Conv  (1952),  No.  4,  481-492;  develops  from  colorful  to 
colorless  but  no  less  affective  style. 

Ad  193  Charles  D£D£YAN  —1508—  "Stendhal  adaptateur 
dans  Vittoria  Accoramboni,"  Sy,  V  (1951),  292-301. 

Ad  203  Alfonso  MENDEZ  PLANCARTE  —1509—  "Hora- 
cio  en  G6ngora,"  Abside,  XV  (1951),  247-266. 

Ad  205  Jean  GIRODON  —1510—  "Eca  de  Queiroz  e  'Ma- 
dame Bovary',"  Biblos,  XXVII  (1949) ,  reprint,  21  pp.  Eliminat- 
ing the  closer  detail  imitation,  Eca  gives  the  'O  Primo  Bazilio' 
the  Portuguese  local  color  which  by  itself  would  make  the  work 
original. 

Ad  207  Stephen  GILMAN  —1511—  Cervantes  y  Ave- 
llaneda.  E studio  de  una  imitation.  Prologo  de  A.  Castro  (Mexico: 
Publ.  NRFH,  no.  2,  1951).    Marred  by  ideology. 


1511-1520  Addenda  II  271 

Ad  239  E.  MERIAN-GENAST  —1511a—  "Die  Technik  der 
komischen  Charakteristik  bei  Moliere  und  Goldoni,"  RF,  LXIV 
(1952),  114-139. 

Ad  308  Pierre  NARDIN  —1512—  "Jules  Renard  et  son 
theatre:  Etude  de  style,"  FR,  XXIV  (1951),  399-414;  his  ideal 
of  style,  "un  style  sans  images"  reached  only  in  Renard's  plays, 
not  in  his  fiction. 

Ad  309  Pierre  Jean  JOUVE  —1513—  "La  langue  de  Mal- 
larme,"  in  Stephane  Mallarme,  essais  et  temoignages  (Neuchatel : 
A  la  Baconniere,  1942). 

Ad  311  Jean  POMMIER  —1514—  "Sur  la  langue  de  Ra- 
cine," FS,  V  (1951),  335-342,  and  VI  (1952),  12-28;  additions 
and  corrections  to  Cahen  (see  no.  311).  Michel  JUNGO 
— 1515 —  Le  vocabulaire  de  Pascal,  etudie  dans  les  fragments 
pour  une  apologie.  Contribution  a  V etude  de  la  langue  de  Pascal 
(Paris:  Editions  d'Artrey,  n.d.  [1951]). 

Ad  312  Hans  S0RENSEN  —1516—  Le  theatre  de  Jean 
Giraudoux.  Technique  et  style  (Copenhagen:  Munksgaard, 
1950)  =Acta  Jutlandica,  XXII  (1950),  Supplementum,  5-267. 
Giraudoux's  style  of  "raillerie  nuancee  de  tendresse"  appears  in 
his  dramas  less  precieux  than  in  his  novels  and  makes  the  indi- 
vidual and  social  problems  appear  rather  serious.  Albert 
HENRY  — 1516a —  Langue  et  poesie  chez  Paul  Valery  (Paris: 
Mercure  de  France,  1952)  ;  after  art  analysis  vocabulary  is 
stressed  in  alphabetical  arrangement. 

Ad  346  A.  BERENGUER  CARISOMO  —1517—  "Notas  es- 
tilisticas  sobre  el  'Fausto'  criollo  [de  Estanislao  del  Campo]," 
BBMP,  XXV  (1949),  144-187. 

Ad  347  Miguel  Angel  ESCALANTE  — 1518—  "Notas  sobre 
el  estilo  de  Vicente  Blasco  Ibanez,"  Cultura  (La  Plata) ,  II  (1950) , 

67-87. 

Ad  353  Sergio  FERRARO—  1518a—  "Procedimientos  de 
estilo  en  la  poesia  popular,"  QI  (1952)  no.  12,  187-193,  enu- 
merates as  typical:  direct  style,  diminutives,  imperatives,  rhe- 
torical questions,  antithetical  parallelism,  "irreality"  etc. 

Ad  354  Miguel  Angel  ESCALANTE  —1519—  "Tempera- 
mento  y  estilo  de  Gabriel  Mir6,"  BUL,  no.  3  (1949).  Ely  Elena 
ZANETTI  —1520—  "Notas  sobre  el  estilo  de  Gabriel  Mir6," 
BIIL,  no.  5  (1949),  125-142;  realism  transfigured  by  the  prose- 
poet's  mind;  a  kind  of  localism  made  universal. 


272  Addenda  II  1520-1530 

Ad  358  E.  ALARCOS  LLORACH  —1520a—  "La  lengua  de 
Sem  Tob,"  RFE,  XXXV  (1951),  249-309. 

Ad  379  INGEBORG  HERRWALDT  —1521—  Stil  und  Wirkung 
der  Predigten  Antonio  Vieiras,  Diss.,  Berlin  1948.  Alberto  del 
MONTE  —1522—  "Guittone  dell'aridita,"  CN,  X  (1950)  :  1.  Lo 
Stile,  209-236;  2.  L'umanita,  XI  (1951),  68-94. 

Ad  383  Robert  FITZGERALD  —1522a—  "The  Style  that 
Does  Honor,"  Kenyon  Review  (Spring  1952),  278-285,  tries  to 
prove  that  Dante  shares  in  perennial  style  of  Sophocles  and  Virgil 
by  rhythmic  movement  and  euphony  in  details. 

Ad  388  Franco  MANCINI  — 1523 —  Ispirazione  e  linguag- 
gio  di  S.  Caterina  da  Siena  (Trieste:  Zigiotti,  1951),  stresses 
oratorical  means  around  a  spontaneous  very  popular  language. 

Ad  402  DOMENICO  DE  ROBERTIS  —1523a—  "Cino  da 
Pistoia  e  la  crisi  del  linguaggio  poetico,"  Conv  (1952)  no.  1,  1-35. 
Fredi  CHIAPPELLI  — 1523b —  Studi  sul  linguaggio  del  Machia- 
velli  (Firenze:  Monnier,  1952). 

Ad  409  Piero  BIGONGIARI  —1523c—  "Alle  origini  dello 
stile  Foscoliano,"  Paragone,  no.  26  (1952),  41-54.  Essence  of 
his  style:  "Ricerca  di  se  stesso." 

Ad  421  Fernando  BONETTI  —1524—  La  lingua  di  Gio- 
vanni Faldellaf  Diss.  Fribourg,  1949.  Fredi  CHIAPELLI 
— 1525 —  Langage  traditionnel  et  langage  personnel  dans  la 
poesie  italienne  contemporaine  (Neuchatel:  Universite  de  N., 
1951) ;  excellent  characterization  of  contemporary  authors  with 
illustrations  from  contemporary  art. 

Ad  430  Th.  HENSCH  —1526—  Ueber  den  Stil  in  Descartes 
'Discours  de  la  methode,'  Diss.  Zurich,  1949. 

Ad  438  Beda  HOTPI  —1527—  Versuch  ilber  den  Stil  Bos- 
suets,  Diss.  Fribourg,  1950;  rough  exemplifications  instead  of  a 
real  synthesis.  Gustav  SIEBENMANN  — 1528 —  Sprache  und 
Stil  des  Lazarillo  de  Tormes,  Diss.  Zurich,  in  print. 

Ad  442  R.  A.  SAYCE  —1529—  "Racine's  Style :  Periphrasis 
and  Direct  Statement,"  in  The  French  Mind.  Studies  in  Honor 
of  Gustave  Rudler.     (Oxford  Univ.  Press,  1952).     Excellent. 

Ad  463  Pierre  NARDIN  —1529a—  "La  recette  stylistique 
des  'Lettres  persanes',"  FM,  XX  (1952),  277-286,  is  considered 
to  be  variety  and  phrase  calculee.  Yves  LE  HIR  — 1530 —  "Notes 
sur  la  langue  et  le  style  du  Moi'se  sauve  de  Saint-Amant  (1633)," 
FM,  XIX  (1951),  95-108;  unique  combination  of  homeric  similes, 


1530-1535  Addenda  II  273 

biblicism  and  abstractism  to  meet  the  expressive  needs  of  an 
"idylle  heroique." 

Ad  498  Alfred  ADLER  — 1530a —  "Rainouart  and  the  Com- 
position of  the  Chanson  de  Guillaume,,,  MP,  XLIX  (1952),  160- 
171,  constructs  a  unity  despite  some  inconsistencies  which  he 
makes  plausible  by  social  change :  the  kitchen  lad  Rainourt  re- 
placing the  noble  Vivien. 

Ad  506  K.  ROGGER  —1530b—  "Etude  descriptive  de  la 
chantefable  'Aucassin  et  Nicolette',"  ZRPh,  LXVII  (1951),  409- 
57,  separates  by  artistic  considerations  the  second  from  the  first 
part  as  heterogeneous  fancifulness  versus  abstractness  reflected 
in  description  and  vocabulary.  Prose  parts  have  role  of  reprise 
and  enpadrement,  laisses  of  romance  type  are  very  close  to  prose. 
This  outstanding  study  will  be  followed  by  inquiries  in  structure 
and  genre.  Alfred  ADLER  — 1530c —  "A  Structural  Compari- 
son of  the  Two  Folies  Tristan,'*  Sy,  VI  (1952),  349-358.  Against 
J.  Horrent,  RPH,  XXV  (1946-7),  21-38;  aesthetical  superiority 
of  Oxford  vs  Berne  proved. 

Ad  511  Charles  DeDeYAN  — 1530d—  "La  composition  de 
Polyeucte,"  LR,  VI  (1952),  207-231;  psychological  structure  is 
a  "reussite  totale." 

Ad  541  Guy  MICHAUD  —1530e—  "Analyse  structural  du 
Mariage  de  Figaro  de  Beaumarchais,"  in  Melanges  d'esthetique 
et  de  science  de  Vart  en  honneur  de  M.  Etienne  Souriau  (Paris, 
1952). 

Ad  550  A.  Lytton  SELLS  —1531—  "La  Chartreuse  de 
Parme:  The  Problem  of  Composition,"  MLQ,  XII  (1951),  204- 
215. 

Ad  551  Bernard  GUYON  — 1532 —  La  creation  litteraire 
chez  Balzac;  la  genese  du  Medecin  de  campagne  (Paris:  Colin, 
1951) ;  not  static-ergocentric,  but  following  the  pattern  proposed 
by  Pierre  Audiat,  La  biographie  de  Voeuvre  litteraire  (Paris: 
Hachette,  1924  [p.  VII]).  Robert  WINKLER  —1533—  La 
femme  de  trente  ans.  Der  Aulfbau  eines  Romans  bei  H.  de  Balzac, 
Diss.  Zurich,  1949.  R.  GUIETTE  —1533a—  "Composition  et 
structure  du  roman  balzaeien,"  LR,  VI  (1952),  301-316. 

Ad  565  Jean  THORAVAL  —1534—  UArt  de  Maupassant 
d'apres  ses  variantes  (Paris:  Imprimerie  nationale,  1951). 

Ad  597  Justin  O'BRIEN  —1535—  "Gide's  Fictional  Tech- 
nique," YFS,  VII  (1951),  81-90,  vacillates  between  "genre-like" 


274  Addenda  II  1536-1544 

recits  and  "exasperatingly  living,"  confused  actions  centered  only 
in  the  narcissistic  novelist. 

Ad  614  Nelly  CORMEAU  —1536—  UArt  de  Frangois 
Mauriac  (Paris :  Grasset,  1951) ,  looks  for  the  center  of  the  work, 
themes,  characters  by  textual  analysis  as  to  the  choice  of  words, 
imagery  and  its  roots,  epithets  of  preference,  condensation  by 
descriptive  adjective  and  rhythm. 

Ad  615  Ph.  A.  WADSWORTH  —1537—  "Saint  Exupery, 
Artist  and  Humanist,"  MLQ,  XII  (1951),  96-107. 

Ad  620  Michel  ZeRAFFA  — 1538—  "The  Young  Novelists : 
Problems  of  Style  and  Technique,"  (Yale  French  Studies,  no.  8, 
1952),  3-8;  concreteness,  no  recipe  of  composition. 

Ad  627  Wilhelm  KELLERMANN  —1539—  "Zur  Charak- 
teristik  des  Libro  del  Buen  Amor  des  Arcipreste  de  Hita,"  ZRPh, 
LXVII  (1951),  225-254,  stresses  preference  for  debating,  prov- 
erbs in  series,  exemplification  by  means  of  invented  material,  dif- 
ferent and  changing  role  of  reporting  ego,  "doppelte  Thematik" 
(p.  239),  irony  as  dominating  factor;  maintains  tension  between 
world  and  religion  in  the  archpriest  and  rejects  Castro's  "ara- 
biguidad."  Ramon  MENeNDEZ  PIDAL  —1539a—  "La  epica 
medieval  en  Espafia  y  en  Francia,"  CL,  IV  (1952),  97-117;  am- 
plification of  no.  627 :  Spanish  verismo  versus  French  verisimili- 
tude. 

Ad  635  Bruce  W.  WARDROPPER  —1539b—  "The  Diana 
of  Montemayor.  Revaluation  and  Interpretation,"  SP,  XL VIII 
(1951),  126-144.  Good  structure  study:  rug  pattern  with  intri- 
cate motifs  spun  in  book  1-3,  solved  in  book  5-7,  presented  as  a 
melody  based  on  counterpoint  with  changing  dominant  and  sub- 
merged themes. 

Ad  642  Heinz  SCHULTE-HERBRtiGGEN  —1540—  "El 
arte  dramatico  de  Lope  de  Vega,"  AUC,  CVIII  (1950),  5-94. 

Ad  649  E.  MORENO  BAEZ  —1541—  "Arquitectura  del 
Quijote,"  RFE,  XXVII  (1948),  269-85.  The  two  worlds  separated 
in  part  I,  merge  in  part  II.  Juan  Carlos  CHIANO  — 1542 —  "La 
tecnica  del  Quijote,"  Cervantes  novelista  (Buenos-Aires:  Ed. 
Centurion,  1948),  83-97;  contains  some  valuable  remarks,  but 
exaggerates:  Balzac,  Dostoievski,  Proust  and  Joyce  only  have 
widened  the  technique  of  Cervantes. 

Ad  653  JOAQUfN  CASALDUERO  —1543—  Sentido  y  forma 
del  teatro  de  Cervantes  (Madrid:  Aguilar,  1951). 

Ad  681     Alonso  ZAMORA  VICENTE  —1544—  Las  'Sona- 


1545-1550  Addenda  II  275 

tas'  de  Ramon  del  Valle  Incldn.  Contribution  al  estvdio  de  la 
prosa  modernista  (Buenos  Aires:  Instituto  de  Filologia  Roman- 
ica,  1951)  ;  detailed  study  of  expressions  of  artistic  vision,  sen- 
sation and  rhythm,  adding  new  observations  to  those  of  Alonso, 
Salinas,  Melchor  Fernandez  Almagro  and  Cesar  Barja. 

Ad  683  Enrique  ANDERSON  IMBERT  —1545—  "El 
telar  de  una  novela  historica:  Enriquillo,  de  Galvan,"  RI  (Mex- 
ico), 1951,  Reprint,  1-19;  structure  of  an  optic  illusion,  Las 
Casas  exploited  by  post-impressionistic  eyes. 

Ad  709  Helmut  HATZFELD  —1545a—  "The  Art  of 
Dante's  Purgatorio,"  SP,  XLIX  (1952),  25-47. 

Ad  711  Guido  FAVATI  —1546—  "Tecnica  ed  arte  nella 
poesia  cavalcantiana,"  SPe,  III  (1950),  117-141. 

Ad  723  Giorgio  PETROCCHI  —1547—  Matteo  Bandello, 
Vartista  e  il  novelliere  (Firenze:  F.  LeMonnier,  1949).  Enrico 
DE'NEGRI  —1547a—  "The  Legendary  Style  of  the  Decameron," 
RR,  XLI  (1952),  166-189,  tries  to  prove  that  Boccaccio  used 
the  style  of  the  Legenda  aurea  for  praising  rascals,  a  style  which 
the  Legenda  used  to  praise  saints. 

Ad  734  Maria  VAIL  ATI  — 1548 —  Pl  tormento  artistivo  del 
Tasso  dalla  'Liberata'  alia  'Conquistata'  (Milan:  Marzorati, 
1950) ;  development  from  sincere  rhetorics  to  less  rhetorical  sin- 
cerity; links  style  to  life  comparable  to  Leo  (see  no.  1181). 

Ad  771  Giovanni  AQUILECCHIA  —  1548a—  "La  prosa  del 
Tasso  e  la  tradizione  stilistica  medievale,"  CN,  XI  (1951),  130- 
150;  explains  the  revolutionary  attempt  to  give  the  rhythmical 
and  stylistic  elements  of  the  periodare  a  paratactical  arrange- 
ment. 

Ad  778  Damaso  ALONSO  — 1549 —  "Ligereza  y  gravedad 
en  la  poesia  de  Manuel  Machado,"  RBAM,  XVI  (1947)  ;  about 
secondary  accents  in  his  prosody.  Beatriz  M.  ARREGUI  Y 
OLAECHEA  —1550—  "La  frase  siglo  XX  en  'Flor  de  Santidad' 
de  Valle  Inclan,"  BIIL,  no.  5  (1949),  25-101 ;  extensive  study  of 
structure,  archaism,  ratio  of  concrete  and  abstract  material, 
metaphorism  in  nouns,  descriptions,  portraits,  imagery.  Mari- 
ano BAQUERO  GOYANES  —1550a—  "Elementos  ritmicos  en 
la  prosa  de  Azorin,"  CI  (1952),  no.  15,  25-32;  discovers  in  an 
arhythmical  prose  a  propensity  to  heptasyllabic  and  pentasyllable 
combinations  which  sometimes  turn  out  real  seguidiUas  without 
rhymes;  italianizing  and  anapaestic  endecasilabos,  and  particu- 
larly alexandrines  reminiscent  of  the  mester  de  clerecia  are  other 
underground  tendencies  of  this  "whispered"  prose. 


276  Addenda  II  1550-1559 

Ad  782  Jean  HANKISS  —1550b—  "Inspiration  geomet- 
rique  dans  les  Caracteres  de  La  Bruyere,"  Neo,  XXXVI  (1952), 
65-75,  excellent  study  about  mathematical  concept  and  presenta- 
tion in  quantity,  proportion,  addition,  subtraction,  compensation, 
multiplication,  distances,  polarities,  etc. 

Ad  796  Calvin  S.  BROWN  —1550c—  Repetition  in  Zola's 
Novels  (Athens:  University  of  Georgia  Press,  1952)  ;  good  ap- 
proach by  means  of  structural  and  stylistic  subdivisions  to  char- 
acter-tag, situation-frame,  hammer-sentence,  slogan-repetition, 
divided  theme  etc. 

Ad  801  Etienne  DE  ULLMANN  —  1550d—  "Valeur  stylis- 
tique  de  l'inversion  dans  'L'education  sentimentale',"  FM,  XX 
(1952),  175-188,  specifies  the  function  of  inversion:  delicacy, 
irony,  harmony,  impressionism,  solemnity  etc. 

Ad  803  G.  EHL  — 1551 —  Die  syntaktische  Anomalie  bei  L.- 
F.  Celine  und  ihre  Bedeutung  als  Stilmittel,  Diss.  Marburg,  1950. 
P.  DURaO  — 1552 —  "Urn  proceso  estilistico  de  Vieira,"  Bro- 
teria,  LII  (Portugal,  1951),  662-668;  endless  concatenations. 

Ad  808  John  W.  COSENTINI  —1552a—  Fontenelle's  Art 
of  Dialogue  (New  York:  King's  Crown  Press,  1952).  Masterly 
presentation  of  originality  despite  imitation  in  genre  and  tech- 
nique. 

Ad  812  Matteo  CERINI  —1553—  "Antitesi  victorhugh- 
iana,"  Humanitas  (Brescia,  aprile  1950). 

Ad  820  John  C.  LAPP  —1554—  "Time,  Space,  and  Symbol 
in  Iphigenie,"  PMLA,  LXVI  (1951),  1023-32;  stresses  symbolic 
expression  through  words  like  rame,  chemin,  autel,  etc. 

Ad  821  Eric  M.  STEEL  —1555—  Diderot's  Imagery  (New 
York:  The  Corporate  Press,  1941),  is  considered  poetical  to  some 
extent  despite  bulk  of  cliches.  John  ORR  — 1556 —  "The  Origin 
of  Hugo's  Condensed  Metaphors,"  FS,  V  (1951),  343-352. 

Ad  827  G.  HAINSWORTH  —1557—  "Pattern  and  Symbol 
in  the  Work  of  Maupassant,"  FS,  V  (1951),  1-17;  relation  be- 
tween structure  and  symbolism. 

Ad  830  A.  R.  CHISHOLM  —1558—  "Substance  and  Symbol 
in  Mallarme,"  FS,  V  (1951),  36-39;  substance  must  be  found, 
otherwise  no  symbols  but  meaningless  puzzles. 

Ad  852  Jean  Alban  ONIMUS  —1559—  Uimage  dans  VEve. 
Essai  sur  la  symbolique  et  Vart  de  Peguy  (Paris,  L'Amitie  Ch. 
Peguy,  1952). 


1560-1568  Addenda  II  277 

Ad  854  Laurence  LE  SAGE  — 1560 —  Metaphor  in  the  Non- 
dramatic  Works  of  Jean  Giraudoux  (Eugene:  Univ.  of  Oregon, 
1952) ;  enlarged  dissertation  praises  Giraudoux  for  moving  be- 
tween symbolists  and  surrealists  with  his  combination  of  neces- 
sary and  fortuitous  metaphors  in  search  for  reality. 

Ad  865  Arnold  H.  WEISS  —1560a—  "Metafora  e  imagen 
en  la  'Epistola  moral  a  Fabio',"  CI  (1952),  no.  13,  13-16;  over- 
stresses  plasticity  and  originality  of  the  classical  imagery  tinged 
by  Christian  spirit;  the  problem,  however,  is  well  seen. 

Ad  868  Maria  Helena  Rocha  PEREIRA  —1561—  As 
imagens  e  os  sons  na  lirica  de  Guerra  Junqueiro,  Conferencia 
(Porto:  Livraria  Portugalia,  1950). 

Ad  888  Ivan  GUTIA  — 1561a —  "II  senso  del  colore  e  la  sua 
espressione  in  Ungaretti,"  Conv  (1952),  641-652.  Ungaretti 
creates  "ecstatic  evocations"  by  the  colors  red,  green,  blue  and 
purple. 

Ad  937  Walter  Morris  HART  —1562—  "The  Narrative 
Art  of  the  Old  French  Fabliaux/'  Anniversary  Papers  by  Col- 
leagues and  Pupils  of  George  Lyman  Kittredge  (Boston:  Ginn, 
1913),  209-216;  fabliau  considered  forerunner  of  modern  short 
story,  calculation  of  effects,  vivid  settings,  comic  moralizing. 

Ad  940  Guillermo  DIAZ  PLAJA  —1563—  "La  tecnica  nar- 
rativa  de  Cervantes,"  RFE,  XXXII  (1948),  237-268;  different  in 
Quijote  and  Novelas. 

Ad  944  Nino  CAPPELLANI  —1563a—  La  sintassi  narra- 
tiva  delVAriosto  (Firenze:  La  Nuova  Italia,  1952)  ;  short  study 
of  102  pages. 

Ad  948  Giuseppe  E.  SANSONE  —1564—  Idillio  e  ironia  in 
Aucassin  e  Nicolette  (Bari:  Adriatica,  1950). 

Ad  959  J.  B.  RATERMANIS  —1565—  "A  propos  de  l'har- 
monie  des  vers,"  PQ,  XXX  (April,  1951)  ;  Grammont  separating 
his  euphonic-rhythmical  discoveries  from  any  meaning  must 
have  had  a  presentiment  at  least  of  sound-sense  relation. 

Ad  962  Francesco  DI  CAPUA  —1566—  II  'cursus'  e  le 
clausole  nei  prosatori  latini  e  in  Lattanzio.  Cor  so  di  letteratura 
cristiana antica  (Bari:  Adriatica,  1949).  Francesco  DI  CAPUA 
— 1567 —  "Preghiere  liturgiche,  poesia  ed  eloquenza,"  AISP,  I 
(1951),  1-24;  stresses  art  character  of  older  collects  as  "lucida 
velocitas."  G.  PETRONIO  —1568—  "Valori  tonali  negli  antichi 
testi  letterari,"  CN,  VII  (1946),  49  ff. 

Ad  964     Cesare  SEGRE  — 1568a —  La  sintassi  del  periodo 


278  Addenda  II  1569-1573 

nei  prirni  prosatori  italiani  (Guittone,  Brunetto,  Dante)  (Roma, 
1952). 

Ad  966  Paul  Oskar  KRISTELLER  —1569—  "L'origine  e 
lo  sviluppo  della  prosa  volgare  italiana,"  CN,  X  (1950),  137-156; 
translation  of  no.  966. 

Ad  968  Charles  BRUNEAU  —1569a—  "La  phrase  des 
traducteurs  au  XVIe  siecle,"  Melanges  d'histoire  Utteraire  de  La 
Renaissance,  off erts  a  Henri  Chamard  .  .  .  par  ses  collegues  .  .  . 
(Paris:  Librairie  Nizet,  1951),  275-284. 

Ad  971  Stephen  ULLMANN  —1569b—  "Inversion  as  a 
Stylistic  Device  in  the  Contemporary  French  Novel,"  MLR, 
XLVII  (1952),  165-180;  evocatory  power  of  inversion  in  authors 
like  Proust,  Giraudoux,  Gide,  Mauriac,  Romains,  Sartre  proves 
it  to  be  backbone  of  modern  style  second  only  to  the  mobility  of 
the  attributive  adjective.  R.  LE  BIDOIS  — 1569c —  V 'inversion 
du  sujet  dans  la  prose  contemporaine  (Paris:  D'Artrey,  1952). 

Ad  983  J.  B.  RATERMANIS  —1570—  "L'inversion  et  la 
structure  de  1'alexandrin,"  FS,  VII  (1952),  58-66;  to  produce 
the  "couple  tonique"  the  most  organic  means  is  "Pinversion  du 
complement  determinatif  et  circonstantiel." 

Ad  986  P.  GARDETTE  —1571—  "L'alexandrin  rythme 
3+3+3+3,"  MB,  99-108;  explained  as  particularly  plastic  in 
Classics  and  Romantics  alike. 

Ad  991  Damaso  ALONSO  —1572—  "Teoria  de  los  conjun- 
tos  semejantes  (en  la  expresion  literaria),"  CI  (1951),  no.  7,  23- 
32 ;  refined  discussion  of  vers  rapportes  and  their  origin  in  popu- 
lar mind.  Ruth  House  WEBBER  —  1572a—  "Formulistic  Dic- 
tion in  the  Spanish  Ballad,"  Univ.  of  California  Publications  in 
Modern  Philology,  XXXIV  (1951),  175-278;  valuable  details. 

Ad  999  Kenneth  CORNELL  (ed.)  —1572b—  Symbol  and 
Symbolism  (YFS,  IX,  1952)  ;  a  symposium  showing  many  as- 
pects of  the  problem.  Of  particular  stylistic  interest  are: 
Oreste  PUCCIANI,  "The  Universal  Language  of  Symbolism" 
(27-35),  identifying  the  ambiguous  symbol  of  hermetic  poetry 
as  the  nucleus  of  contemporary  poetic  language;  Neal  OXEN- 
HANDLER,  "The  Balcony  of  Charles  Baudelaire"  (56-62),  an 
"explication  de  texte ;"  and  Fernan  VIAL,  "Symbols  and  Sym- 
bolism in  Paul  Claudel"  (93-102),  which  stresses  the  personal 
(l'arbre),  archetypical,  biblical  and  liturgical  symbolism  in 
Claudel. 

Ad  1011     Charles  BRUNEAU  —1573—  "L'image  dans  notre 


1574-1583  Addenda  II  279 

langue  litteraire,"  MD,  55-67;  compares  the  contemporary  type 
of  metaphor  to  the  classical  and  romantic  types,  blames  the 
extravagant  coinings,  but  admits  a  convincing  metaphor  as  a 
geometrical  instrument  of  literary  precision.  Frank  PIERCE 
— 1574 —  "L'allegorie  poetique  au  XVIe  siecle.  Son  evolution  et 
son  traitement  par  Bernardo  de  Balbuena,"  BH,  LI  (1949),  381- 
406.  Osvaldo  SVANASCINI  —1575 —  "La  metafora  en  el  super- 
realismo,"  BAL,  XVI   (1947),  765-807. 

Ad  1052  E.  VON  RICHTHOFEN  —1576—  "Zu  den  poet- 
ischen  Ausdrucksformen  in  altromanischer  Epik,"  ZRPh,  LXVI 
(1950),  241-302  (see  no.  1157),  stresses  Vergilian  stylistic  mo- 
tifs used  with  more  or  less  skill  by  the  poets  of  the  Chanson  de 
Roland,  the  Cid,  and  the  Divina  Commedia.  Joaquin  GONZA- 
LEZ MUELA  — 1577 —  "El  aspecto  verbal  en  la  poesia  moderna 
espanola,"  RFE,  XXXV  (1951),  75-91;  contradiction  between 
stylistic  necessities  and  syntactical  means  (durative,  perfective, 
etc.).  Jacinto  DO  PRADO  COELHO  —1578—  "O  discurso 
semi-directo  no  romanceiro  popular,"  RPo,  XIV  (1949),  18-20. 
Jacques  SCHERER  — 1578a —  La  dramaturgic  classique  en 
France  (Paris:  Nizet,  n.d.  [1951?]),  an  ideal  structure  study  of 
488  pages,  following  the  form-concept  of  Focillon  and  using  the 
rich  material  of  Lancaster,  considering  every  angle  of  the  sub- 
ject from  actors,  action,  unities,  peripeties  to  bienseance,  repeti- 
tion, sentences,  stanzas,  liaison  des  scenes  etc. 

Ad  1083  Angel  GONZALEZ  PALENCIA  y  Eugenio  MELE 
— 1579—  "El  'Amor  fugitivo'  de  Mosco,  en  las  literaturas  ital- 
iana,  espafiola  y  portuguesa,"  EMP,  II,  445-480;  fine  material, 
but  timid  conclusions. 

Ad  1162  Narcisso  DE  AZEVEDO  —1580—  A  arte  literaria 
na  Idade  Media  (Porto:  Figueirinhas,  1947). 

Ad  1181  W.  THEODOR  ELWERT  —1581—  "Zur  Charakter- 
istik  der  italienischen  Barocklyrik,"  RJ,  III  (1950),  421-498; 
accurate  analysis  of  the  style  of  Marini,  his  contemporaries  and 
his  successors ;  pertinent  appraisal  of  the  meaning  and  the  chrono- 
logical span  of  Baroque:  from  Tasso  to  Racine. 

Ad  1185  Imbrie  BUFFUM  —1582—  Agrippa  d'Aubigne's 
Les  tragiques;  a  study  of  the  baroque  style  in  poetry  (New  Haven : 
Yale  University  Press,  1951)  ;  should  have  made  clear  that  this 
baroque  is  mannerism.  Charles  DeDeYAN  — 1583 —  "Position 
litteraire  du  baroque,"  Forschungsprobleme  der  verglewhenden 
Literaturgeschichte,    (ed.)    Kurt   Wais    (Tubingen:    Niemeyer, 


280  Addenda  II  1583-1589 

1951)  ;  still  identifying  Baroque  with  Mannerism  and  opposing 
it  to  Classicism ;  he  ignores  the  progress  made  in  this  matter. 

Ad  1187  Wylie  SYPHER  —1583a—  "The  Late-Baroque 
Image — Poussin  and  Racine,"  Magazine  of  Art,  XLV  (1952), 
209-215;  sees  the  decisive  problem:  "Transposition  of  the 
baroque  masses  into  moral  energy." 

Ad  1188  Frank  PIERCE  —1584—  "Hojeda's  'La  Christi- 
ada' :  A  Poem  of  the  Literary  Baroque,"  BSS,  XVII  (1940),  203- 
218,  "passionate,"  "robust."  A.  L.  CONSTANDSE  —1585a—  Le 
baroque  espagnol  et  Calderon  de  la  Barca  (Amsterdam,  1951)  ; 
marred  by  biased  psychoanalytical  approach. 

Ad  1189  DORA  FRICK  — 1585b —  Robert  Gamier  als  barock- 
er  Dichter,  Diss.  Zurich,  1951.  Evelyn  Esther  UHRHAN 
— 1586 —  Linguistic  Analysis  of  Gongora's  Baroque  Style,  Diss. 
(Abstract)  University  of  Illinois,  Urbana,  1950;  worthless  for 
style  analysis,  but  demonstrating  how  little  can  be  done  by  Bloom- 
field  linguistics  in  this  special  matter. 

Ad  1196  Ruth  Cave  FLOWERS  —1587—  Voltaire's  Stylis- 
tic Transformation  of  Rabelaisian  Satirical  Devices.  A  Study  in 
Epoch  Styles:  Renaissance  Trans  formed  into  Rococo,  Diss.  Catho- 
lic University  Washington,  D.  C,  1951. 

Ad  1206  Ruth  MOSER  — 1587a —  L'Impressionisme  fran- 
gais.  Peinture,  Litterature,  Musique  (Geneve:  Droz,  1952)  ;  here 
a  real  progress  is  made  in  coordinating  the  features  of  an  epoch 
style  common  to  three  of  the  arts.  Condensed  in  287  pages,  there 
is  a  fair  discussion  and  rich  sampling  of  the  break  down  of  form, 
rhythm  and  elan,  "morcellement  de  la  matiere"  and  "dissolution 
du  monde  psychique"  to  the  advantage  of  the  nuance,  the  sug- 
gestion coming  to  the  fore  in  pictural  verbal  and  harmonic  color 
spots  out  of  a  desire  to  create  beauty  by  hunting  the  fleeting 
moment  and  thus  producing  strange  moods  of  inconstant  beauty. 

Ad  1239  Karl  MICHAELSON  —1588—  Bet  franska 
sproaket:  en  karakteristik  (Goteborg:  Gumperts,  1944).  Knud 
TOGEBY  — 1589 —  Structure  immanente  de  la  langue  frangaise 
(Copenhague:  Nordisk  Sprog-og  Kulturforlag,  1951)  ;  made  on 
the  basis  of  "une  emancipation  de  toutes  les  influences  sociolo- 
giques,  psychologiques,  esthetiques,  logiques,  historiques,"  fol- 
lowing scholars  like  Wiwel  (Denmark),  Fortunatov,  Peterson, 
Peskovskj  (Russia),  Trubetskoy,  Bloomfield  and  Hjelmslev,  com- 
bining structuralism  and  glossematics,  stressing  a  threefold 
analysis :  "analyse  f onctionelle,  analyse  des  signes,  analyse  de  la 
substance." 


1590-1597  Addenda  II  281 

Ad  1348  Max  MANGOLD  — 1590 —  La  mise  en  relief  en 
frangais  classique,  Diss.,  Basel,  1949  is  based  on  structural  lin- 
guistics, superior  to  no.  1348.  Carl  Theodor  GOSSEN  — 1591 — 
"Quelques  aspects  de  la  mise  en  relief  d'une  idee  en  italien  et  en 
francais,"  ZRPh,  LXVII  (1951),  147-166,  concerns  "repetition," 
"reinforcement"  and  "inversion"  in  modern  authors.  Hans 
OSTER  — 1592 —  Die  Hervorhebung  im  Spanisphen,  Diss.  Zurich, 
1951,  extremely  rich,  carefully  done,  valuable. 

Ad  1377  Hugo  Emilio  PEDEMONTE  —1593—  Metodologia 
estilistica  de  la  literatura.  Teoria  y  prdctica  de  su  ensenanaza 
(Montevideo:  Ed.  Ciudadela,  1949). 

Ad  1393  Julio  CASARES  —1593a—  "Estilistica  y  lexico- 
grafia,"  in  his  Introduction  a  la  lexicografia  moderna  (Madrid: 
Consejo,  1950),  102-162;  deals  in  a  convincing  way  with  the 
interrelation  between  stylistics  and  semantics  and  rightly  denies 
stylistics  any  diachronic  role  in  lexicological  problems.  With 
regard  to  the  present  work  the  remark  may  be  quoted  that  for 
stylistics  "la  respectiva  bibliografia  es  punto  menos  que  inabar- 
cable"  (p.  104). 

Ad  1398  Jan  MUKAROVSKY  —1594—  "La  denomination 
poetique  et  la  fonction  esthetique  de  la  langue,"  Actes  du  IVe 
Congres  des  Linguistes  (Copenhagen,  1936),  98-104,  and  du  Ve 
Congres  (Bruxelles,  1939),  94-102;  see  about  Mukarovsky:  W.  E. 
Harkins,  "Slavic  Formalist  Theories  in  Literary  Scholarship," 
W,  VII  (1951),  175-185. 

Ad  1399  V.  ZANCANELLA  —1595—  Psicologia  analitica 
dello  stile  (Ferrara,  1948). 

Ad  1405  Jacques-G.  KRAFFT  —1595a—  Essai  sur  V esthe- 
tique de  la  prose  (Paris:  Vrin,  1952),  opposes  prose  to  poetry  as 
enumeration-juxtaposition  and,  with  the  aid  of  the  official  sub- 
divisions of  the  highways  of  France  (route  nationale,  vicinale, 
rurale,  etc.)  used  metaphorically,  and  the  introduction  of  the  con- 
cept of  rudiment,  he  comes  to  the  most  ingenious  classifications 
of  prose  types. 

Ad  1406  M.  RUTTEN  —1596—  "Dichtkunst  en  Phonologie," 
RPH,  XXVIII  (1950),  871-920  defends  De  Grooms  rhythmic-eu- 
phonic types. 

Ad  1408  Jos£  Luis  L.  ARANGUREN  —1597—  "Teoria  del 
Lenguaje,  estilistica  y  ciencia  de  la  literatura,"  Insula,  VI  (1951) , 
no.  67.    Review-article  concerning  Damaso  Alonso. 

Ad  1414     Julio  SAAVEDRA  MOLINA  —1597a—  "Teoria 


282  Addenda  II  1597-1600 

del  poema,"  Boletin  de  Filologia,  VI  (1950-51),  Santiago  de  Chile, 
1952,  25-346,  is  a  metrical  and  rhythmical  theory  of  Spanish 
verse  and  verse  in  general.  The  new  principle  added  to  syllable 
counting  and  rhythm  is  a  particular  concept  of  cadences  and 
pauses,  with  many  digressions  into  the  ideological  problems. 
JOSE  MARfA  VAL VERDE  — 1597b —  Estudios  sobre  la  palabra 
poetica  (Madrid:  Rialp,  1952),  deduces  theory  from  practice  of 
Cesar  Vallejo,  Antonio  Machado,  T.  S.  Eliot  etc.  S.  DRESDEN 
— 1597c  — "Stylistique  et  science  de  la  litterature,"  Neo,  XXXVI 
( 1952 ) ,  93-205.    Balanced  theory. 

Ad  1446  Helmut  HATZFELD  —1598—  Literature  through 
Art;  a  new  approach  to  French  Literature  (New  York:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1952). 

Ad  1447  Everett  W.  HESSE  —  1598a—  "Calderon  and 
Velazquez,"  Hispania,  XXXV,  no.  1  (Feb.  1952),  74-82;  or  CI 
(1951),  no.  10,  1-10.  Darnell  Higgins  ROATEN  and  F.  SAN- 
CHEZ Y  ESCRIBANO  —1598b—  Wolfflin's  Principles  in  Span- 
ish Drama:  1500-1700  (New  York:  Hispanic  Institute  in  the 
U.  S.,  1952).  Helmut  HATZFELD  —1598c—  "Textos  teresianos 
aplicados  a  la  interpretacion  de  El  Greco,"  CI  (1950),  no.  4, 1-11 ; 
and  no.  5,  1-8.  Helmut  HATZFELD  —  1598d—  "Artistic 
Parallels  in  Cervantes  and  Velazquez,"  EMP,  III  (1952) ,  265-297. 

Ad  1449  Th.  C.  van  STOCKUM  —1599—  "Zur  Deutung  des 
Wortkunstwerks.  Ein  hermeneutisch-philosophisch-methodolo- 
gischer  Versuch,"  Neo,  XXXV  (1951),  116-120,  ridicules  the 
stylistic  method. 

Ad  1457  Carlos  BOUSOnO  —1599a—  Teoria  de  la  expre- 
sion  poetica  (Madrid:  Gredos,  1952),  a  revolutionary  and  very 
illuminating  revamping  of  the  preceptivas  literarias  with  the  aid 
of  psychological  stylistics.  An  enonpe  in  ordinary  language, 
simply  called  lengua  (sustituido) ,  is  replaced  by  poetry  (susti- 
tuyente)  equivalent  of  artistic  habla,  which  itself  becomes  a 
modificado  by  special  circumstances  (symbolism,  humor,  spirit 
of  the  time,  allusion,  etc.)  called  modificantes. 

Ad  1479  Jean  HANKISS  —1600—  La  litterature  et  la  vie. 
Problematique  de  la  creation  litteraire,  Boletim  da  Faculdade  de 
Filosofia,  Ciencias  e  Letras  (Sao  Paulo)  CXXIV  (1951),  7-334; 
literary  theory,  stringing  style  together  with  psychology  and  so- 
ciology :  "L'art  de  la  parole  ne  tient  pas  sa  qualite  d'art  de  la 
parole  seulement"  (p.  333). 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


References  are  to  numbers,  not  to  pages. 


Abrahams,  J.      258 

Adam,  P.     270 

Adami,  E.      421 

Adelson,  D.     156 

Adler,  A.       504,  505,  1530a,  1530c 

Adorf,  J.      754 

Adriani,  B.       1506b 

Ajello,  L.     560 

Alain   (pseudonym)      488 

Alani,  G.     736 

Alarcos  (Llorach),  E.  668,  1310, 
1520a 

Albalat,  A.      90,  91,  92,  93,  94,  95 

Allenspach,  M.     43 

Almenberg,  S.      1297 

Alonso,  A.  9  (Theory  of  Interpre- 
tation), 79  (Neruda),  106  (Styl- 
istics),  213  (Fuentes),  344  (Don 
Ramiro),  677  (Valle-Inclan),  681 
(Groussac),  683  (Segundo  Som- 
bra),  689  (Jorge  Guillen),  695 
(Borges),  1282  (Impressionism), 
1313  (Diminutive),  1314  (Ar- 
ticle), 1315  (Article  &  Diminu- 
tive) 

Alonso,  D.  81  (Soledades),  200 
(Becquer)t  201,  208  (St.  John  of 
the  Cross),  209  (Lope),  220 
(Gongora),  343  (Gongora's  lan- 
guage), 623  (Cid),  638,  639  (St. 
John  of  the  Cross),  640  (Me- 
drano),  661,  662  (Soledades),  667 
(Carillo),  774  (Gongora's- verse), 
792  (Allusion),  887  (Soledades), 
989,  990  (Versos  correlativos),  991 
(Campanella),  1454,  1455  (Style 
theory),  1504  (Poesia  y  Novela), 
1505  (Seis  calas),  1549  (Macha- 
do),  1572  (Conjuntos  semejantes) 

Alonso,  M.      107 

Amrein-Widmer,   M.      767 

Anderson  Imbert,  E.  459,  675,  868, 
1208,  1545. 

Angelini,  C.      406 

Anhegger,    G     1138 

Annweiler,  J.     948 

Apollono,  M.     1471 

Aquilecchia,  G.      770,  1548a 

Aranguren,  J.  L.     1597 

Arce  (de  Vasquez),  M.     631,  1097 

Ardan,  G.     418 

Arias-Larreta,  A.     1023 
Arndts,  H.     330 
Arregui,  J.  R.     670 


Arregui  y  Olaechea,  B.  M.     1550 
Ascoli,  G.     539 
Asemissen,  H.  U.      1066 
Asin  Palacios,  M.      863 
Audiat,  P.       1532 
Auerbach,  E.       88,  493,  1061,  1149 
1561 

Bachelard,  G.  1076  (Water),  1077 
(Fire),  1078  (Rest),  1079 
(Earth) 

Baer,  G.      1001 

Baldini,  A.      741 

Bally,  Ch.  108  (Precis),  109 
(Traite),  115  (Moyens  d'expres- 
sion),  1045  (Style  indirect  libre), 
1240  (Linguistique),  1282  (Im- 
pressionism), 1456  (Style  et  lin- 
guistique) 

Baquero  Goyanes,   M.       1550a 

Barat,  E.      475,   1200 

Barbelenet,  D.      1305 

Barbi,  M.      708 

Barbulescu,  I.      1265 

Barker,  M.  I.      429 

Baroja,  P.      1376 

Barretti,  G.      432 

Bartl,  P.      895 

Bartling,  D.      1401 

Bartoli,  M.      1258,   1266,   1276 

Baruzi,  J.      369 

Bassi,  O.      909 

Basto,  C.      378,  379 

Bates,  B.   W.      1029 

Battaglia,  R.      74,  404 

Battaille,  G.      1432 

Baudouin,  L.  C.      828 

Bax,  C.      1378 

Beall,  C.  B.      179,  188 

Beardsley,  W.  A.      872 

Becker,  P.  A.      1166,   1167 

Beerli,  O.      1487 

Beinhauer,  W.  1245  (Humor), 
1246  (Piropos),  1247  (Umgangs- 
sprache),  1248,  1343   (Metafora) 

Belcingateanu,  A.     1113 

Benda,  J.       144 

Bendz,  E.  126  (Gide),  127  (Val- 
ery),  128  (Contemporary  novel), 
441    (Mauriac) 

Benedetto,  L.  F.     508,  713 

Berenguer,  Carisomo  A.       671,  1517 

Berger,  B.     988 

Berger,  K.      1428 

Berger,  M.     See  Criticus 


284 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


Bernheim,  L.  P.     602 
Berret,  P.     27 

Bertoni,  G.  381  (Troubadours), 
382  (Dante),  384  (Berchet),  385 
(Carducci),  386  (Pensiero),  387 
(Sta.  Caterina),  764  (Dante), 
1271   (Lingua  Romena) 

Bezzola,   R.   R.     499,   502,   503,   738 

Bianchi,  L.     417 

Bigi,  E.     725 

Bigongiari,  P.       1523c 

Biller,  G.     1164 

Billeskov  Jansen,  F.  I.      1381,  1466 

Binni,  W.     730,  1214 

Biscottini,  U.     724 

Bishop,  J.  P.      1380 

Blackert,  H.     943 

Blanck,  R.     336 

Blanco,  M.  G.     221 

Blecua,  J.  M.     243,  360 

Blinkenberg,  A.     971 

Bock,  M.     823 

Boillot,  F.     974,  992 

Bolelli,  T.     403 

Bonetti,  F.     1524 

Borlenghi,  A.     757 

Botelho  de  Amaral,  V.     374 

Bottequin,  A.      1279 

Bottino,  E.     755 

Boulanger,  J.     481 

Bousoiio,  C.       1488,  1505,  1599a 

Bousquie,  G.      1499 

Bouvier,  E.     80 

Brady  Sr.M.Rosalie     423 

Brauer,  R.     288 

Brambati,  R.     77 

Branca,  V.     411 

Brauchlin,  D.      1135 

Bree,  G.     581 

Bremond,  H.     314,  970 

Brenes-Mesen,  R.       979 

Brenner,  C.  D.      1067 

Brereton,   G.     202 

Brewster,  W.  J.      1358 

Briod,  B.      176 

Brock-Sulzer,  E.     590,  1502 

Br0ndal,  V.      1231 

Brook,  E.     438 

Brown,  C.  S.       1439,  1550c 

Brown,  D.  F.     214 

Brudt,  K.     250 

Brun-Laloire,  L.     1304 

Bruneau,  Ch.  264,  324,  1201,  1506, 
1569a,  1573 

Brunet,  G.     512 

Bruno,  G.     24 

Buchner,  M.  L.     891 

Buck,  A.     1035 

Buck,  E.     595 

Buck,  G.     207 

Buffin,  J.     1352 


Buffum,  I.      1582 
Burkart,  R.     527,  1103 
Burns,  M.     271 
Busetto,  N.     732,  818 
Byck,  J.      1319 

Cabanas,  P.     1083 

Cacudi,  N.     189 

Cahen,  J.  G.     311,  817 

Caillois,  R.     618 

Calcaterra,  C.       1492 

Cameron,  A.      186 

Camon  Aznar,  J.      1182 

Canfield,  A.  G.     941,  942 

Cantini,  G.     716 

Cappellani,  N.       1563a 

Caracostea,  D.     443,  1293 

Carcassone,  E.      168,  536 

Carter,  M.  E.     1000 

Casalduero,  J.  647,  648,  649  (Qui- 
jote),  650  (Novelas),  651  (Per- 
siles),  652  (Numancia),  653 
(Argel),  690  (Guillen),  778 
(Guillen's  verse),  1543  (Teatro 
Cervantino) 

Casares,  J.       1593a 
Castay,  M.       1507a 

Castro,  A.     621    (Cid),   632    (Gue- 
vara),  645    (Quijote),   655    (Ce- 
loso),   692    (Guillen),   1244    (Es- 
pana) 
Cavazos,  N.  A.     1146 
Cejador  Y  Frauca,  J.     1252 
Cerini,  M.      1553 
Chabanon,  A.     577 
Chabas,  J.     142 
Chardon,  P.       1500,  1500a 
Charland,  Th.  M.      1163 
Charlier,  G.     844 
Chasse,  C.     321,  1417 
Chaves,  C.  B.     205 
Cherel,  A.     535,  978 
Chernowitz,  M.  E.     927 
Chiapelli,  F.      120,  121,  1180,  1523b, 

1525 
Childers,  J.  W.     1144 
Chisholm,  A.  R.      1558 
Chonez,  C.      1397 
Cian,  V.     399 
Cidade,  H.     471,  472 
Cioranescu,  A.      185,  187 
Circeo,  E.     759 
Cirot,  G.     225,  367 
Claveria,  C.     204 
Clayton,  V.     976 
Clouard,  H.      139 
Cocchiara,  G.     413 
Coculesco,  P.  S.     370,  785 
Coeuroy,  A.      1440 
Cohen,  G.     39,  501,  502 
Cohen,  S.     1386,  1387 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


285 


Cohn,  A.     190 

Cohn,  R.  G.     63 

Colli,  L.     771,  888 

Comparative    Literature     1482 

Constandse,  A.  L.       1585a 

Contini,  G.     173 

Cooperman,  H.     167 

Coppin,  J.     146,  261 

Cordie,  C.     172,  400,  549 

Corley,  A.  H.     955 

Cormeau,  N.      1536 

Cornali,  M.  F.     1215 

Cornell,  K.       1572b 

Correa,  G.     349,  350 

Correa  Calderon,  E.     1207 

Cosentini,  J.  W.       1552a 

Cosmo,  U.     67 

Costa  Marques,  F.     84 

Coulter,  H.  B.     589 

Courthion,  P.     606 

Coutinho,  A.     21,  1195 

Crain,  W.  L.     904 

Cressot,  M.  113  (Techniques),  301 
(Huysmans),  302  (Assommoir), 
464  (Phedre),  801   (Salammbo) 

Cretin,  R.     846 

Criticus  (pseudonym)  122,  123, 
124,  1507 

Croce,  B.     699,  700,  1363 

Croll,  M.  W.     969,  1177 

Crump,  P.  E.      1114 

Cuisenier,  A.     588 

Curtius,  E.  R.  48  (Alexis),  284 
(Europ.  Literatur),  297  (Proust), 
576  (Wegbereiter) ,  625  (Topics), 
791  (Dante),  994  (Mittelalter- 
licher  Stil),  1005  (Book  Meta- 
phors), 1008  (Topics),  1026  (Na- 
turschilderung) ,  1073  (Pathos- 
formeln),  1092  (Dea  Natura), 
1160  (Lit.  Asthetik),  1162  (Dich- 
tung  u.  Rhetorik),  1184  (Baroque 
Style) 

Da  Costa  Pimpao,  A.  J.     957 

D 'Albuquerque,  A.  T.       816 

D'Andrea,  A.       784 

Dane,  I.     824,  826 

Dargan,  E.  P.     904 

Da  Silva  Correia,  J.       984 

Dauer,  H.     498 

Dauzat,  A.     283,  322,   1233,   1283, 

1346 
David,  M.     34 
Davis,  G.     883 
De  Azevedo,  N.      1580 
De  Belinay,  F.     96 
De  Bruyne,  E.     1158 
De  Campos,  A.      1100 
De  Carvalho,  A.     698 
De  Commaille,  A.-M.     821 


De  Cossio,  F.      1020 

Dedeyan,  Ch.      192,  193,  1508,  1530d, 

1583 
De  Entrambasaguas,  J.      1019 
De  Escandon,  B.  G.      1112 
Deffoux,  L.      133 
De  Filipis,  M.      1070 
De  Gourmont,  R.      1225,  1361,  1362 
Delafarge,  D.     1101 
De  La  Juilliere,  P.     841 
Del  Campo,  A.     777,  837 
Del  Grosso,  M.  S.     892 
Del  Monte,  A.     987,  1522 
De  Lorenzi,  A.      1366 
De  Magalhaes  Lima,  J.     813 
De  Mendoza,  C.  H.     364 
De  Michelis,  E.      747 
De  Montoliu,  M.     665 
Demorest,  D.  L.     164,  825 
De'  Negri,  E.       1547a 
Denis,  S.     365 
Dentoni,  E.     752 
De  Padua,  A.     375 
De    Paiva    Boleo,    M.     917,    1311, 

1312;  see  Paiva  Boleo,  M. 
De  Pol,  F.     914,  915 
De  Reynold,  G.     1187 
De  Riquer,  M.     628 
De  Robertis,  D.      1523a 
Derndarsky,  D.     256 
Derreal,  H.     306,  307 
De  Sanctis,  F.     719 
De  Schloezer,  B.     1442 
Desgranges,  G.     542 
Des  Hons,  G.     313 
Desonay,  F.      197 
De  Ullmann,  E.     See  Ullmann,  S. 
Devoto,    G.     75,    745,    746,    1393, 

1473,  1494 
Diaz  Plaja,  G.     913,  1186,  1563 
Di    Capua,    F.     761,   762,    960,    961, 

962,  963,  1566  1567 
Dieckmann  H.     612 
Diego,  G.     776 
Dietschy,  C.     458 
Dijksterhuis,  A.     230 
Dion,  A.     99 
Disselhoff,  H.  D.     1024 
Doehner,  K.      1107 
Dolowitz,  G.  B.     585 
Do  Prado  Coelho,  J.       1578 
Dornseiff,  F.      1419 
D'Ors,  E.      143 
Doucet,  F.     566 
Douglas,  K.  N.     257 
Dragomirescu,  M.      1476 
Dresden,  S.       1597c 
Drougard,  E.     571 
Drube,  H.     232 
Duarte  de  Holanda  Ferreira,  A. 

377 


286 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


DuBos,  Ch.     486 
Duchesne-Guillemin,  J.     599 
Dudan,  C.      129 
Du  Genet,  G.      415 
Dujardin,  E.      1068 
Dumeril,   E.      259 
Dumesnil,  R.      986 
Dunbar,  H.  F.      999 
Dunham,  L.      363 
Dupouy,   A.      1094 
Durao,  P.      1552 
Duro,  A.     739 
Duval,  G.      838 
Dyherrn,  I,  von     252 

Edelmann,  N.     848 
Eggenschwyler,  R.     433 
Egilsrud,  J.  S.      1126 
Ehl,  G.      1551 
Eigeldinger,  M.      614,  1003 
Ellwanger,  H.      416 
Elwert,  W.  Th.     743,  1581 
Ernie,  L.      950 
Empson,  W.      1420 
Engel,  C.  E.      1099 
Engstrom,  A.  G.      949,  1015 
Ernout,  A.     242 
Escalante,   M.      1518,   1519 
Espinosa  Polit,  A.      1484 
Esteve,  L.      33 
Etiemble,  R.      318,  467 
Etienne,  S.      19,  20 
L'explieation  francaise  par  une  re- 
union de  Professeurs     6 

Fabre,  J.      528 

Fahlin,  C.      1296 

Falqui,     E.      141      (Ricerca),     393 

(Galileo),      753       (Solus),      790 

(Prosa  d'arte) 
Faral,  E.      28,  491,  1159 
Fardwell,  F.  V.     928 
Faux    en    ecriture,    aux    depens    de 

Jean  Paulhan,  Alain,  Apollinaire, 

etc. — Anonymous     138 
Favati,  G.      1546 
Faye,  P.-L.      1309 
Ferran,  A.     558 
Ferraris,  R.     912 
Ferraro,  S.      1518a 
Ferreira,  A.  M.  G.     461 
Ferreira,  V.     946 
Ferrer,  J.     358 
Ferrere,  E.  L.     561 
Ferrero,  G.     410 
Fest,   O.     339 
Festa,  N.     388 
Feugere,  A.     157,  530,  531 
Feuillerat,  A.     557,  587 
Fichter,  W.  L.     680 
Fink,  A.     1065 


Fioroni,  M.      70 

Fiser,  E.      586,  829 

Fisher,  F.      1048 

Fitzgerald,  R.       1522a 

Flasche,  H.      694,  1134,  1295 

Fleischer,  W.      876 

Flores,  G.      390 

Flowers,  R.  C.      1587 

Flutre,  F.      154 

Fogelberg,  T.      282 

Forest,  H.  V.      551 

Formont-Lemerre     985 

Fotitch,  T.      944,  1271 

Foulet,  L.      1290 

Fowlie,  W.   58,  572,  1117,  1142 

Francois,  A.  273,  975,  1320 

Francon,  M.  556,  1037, 1087,  1503 

Frank,  G.  51 

Frank,  H.   1421 

Frank,  J.   1053 

Franke,  E.  563 

Franz,  A.  150  (Contemplations), 
151  (Ibo),  152  (Hugo),  709  (In- 
ferno), 1027  (Portrait). 

Frappier,  J.  807,  808 

Frese,  F.   834 

Freudemann,  E.  R.      869 

Frey,  D.      1171 

Frick,  D.       1585b 

Friedrich,  H.      448,  1084 

Fries,  W.      326 

Frisch-Fuglsang,   I.      442 

Fritz,  K.  von      1080 

Frohock,  W.  M.      196 

Fromaigeat,  E.      1289 

Fubini,  M.  174,  175,  395,  396,  397, 
408,  1412,  1472 

Fucilla  J.    G.      997 

Fumagalli,  G.      729 

Gadda,  C.  E.      76 

Gadea,  A.  L.     354 

Galichet,  G.      1234 

Galletti,  A.     742 

Gandon,  Y.      139,  140 

Gantenbein,  B.      936 

Ganter,  P.      1028 

Garcia  de  Franca,  M.     568 

Garcia  Diaz,  P.      666 

Gardette,  P.     1571 

Garzia,  R.     462 

Gates,  E.  J.     218    (Calderon),  219 

(Paravicino),  865  (Gongora),  866 

(Gaucho) 
Gatti,  J.  F.     223 
Gautier,  P.  L.     575 
Gautier,  R.     480 
Gelson,  Sr,  M.  Aline     903 
Gengoux,  J.  573 
Getto,  G.     69,  714 
Ghiano,  J.  C.     1542 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


287 


Ghyka,  M.  C.     130 

Gilman,   M.     166 

Gilman,  S.     1511 

Giordano,  V.     71 

Giovannini,  G.     1447 

Girodon,  J.     1510 

Giusso,  L.     398 

Glaser,  E.     1095 

Glaser,  K.     882,  938 

Glotz,  R.     148,  149 

Glunz,  H.  H.     1161 

Gmelin,   H.     1032 

Godin,  H.  J.  G.     114 

Gohin,    F.     520 

Goncalves,  F.  R.       373 

Gonzalez   Muela,  J.     1577 

Gossen,  C.  Th.     1591 

Gottschalk,   W.     1332,    1333 

Gougenheim,    G.     805,    1069,    1239, 

1322 
Gracey,  P.     780 
Grammont,    M.     45,    522,    981,    982, 

1399 
Granell,  M.     687 
Grasset,  B.     102 
Green,  F.  C.     29 
Green,  O.  H.     1038 
Greene,  T.  M.  1433 
Gregoire,  A.     320 
Gresik,  G.     748 
Grimmer,  G.     1501 
Grismer,  R.  L.     793 
Groh,  H.     337 
Grolmann,  A.  von     240 
Grosheintz,  O.     533 
Gronauer,   M.     564 
Grubbs,  H.  A.      64,  534 
Gruber,  E.     118 
Grundy,  J.  B.  C.     131 
Guberina,  P.     1292 
Guddorf,  H.     332 
Gueneau,   R.     135 
Guiette,  R.       1533a 
Giinther,  W.     607,  1044 
Guerlin  de  Guer,  Ch.     263,  279  280, 

316,  463 
Guerrieri,  C.     212 
Guex,  A.     555 
Guichard,  L.     317 
Guillaume,  G.     1345,  1351 
Guillaumie,  G.     275 
Guillemin,  H.     543 
Guisan,  G.  159 
Gustarelli,  A.     72 
Gutia,  I.       1119,  1561a 
Gutkind,  S.     401 
Guyon,  B.     578,  1532 
Guyot,  H.     160 

Hachtmann,  O.   W.     972 
Hage,  L.     415 


Hamel,  A.     951 

Hagen,  H.  W.     139 

Hainsworth,  G.     1557 

Halbach,  K.  H.     233 

Hankiss,  J.       540,  1384,  1550b,  1600 

Hansen,  A.  C.     611 

Hart,  C.  R.     177 

Hart,  W.  M.     1562 

Hartmann,   A.     929 

Haschke,  F.     266 

Hasselrot,   B.     610 

Hatcher,  A.  G.     49,  1051,  1054 

Hatzfeld,  H.  86  (Criticism),  194 
(Quijote-Bovary),  244  (Sta. 
Teresa),  478,  479  (Joinville),  506 
(Medieval  Criticism)  643,  644 
(Don  Quijote),  1006  (Similes), 
1036  (Feminine  Beauty),  1128 
(Paradiso),  1129  (Span.  Roman- 
ticism), 1130  (Portug.  Romanti- 
cism), 1131  (Hugo),  1155  (Wort- 
kunstgeschichte),  1169  (Hochmit- 
telalter),  1170  (Flamboyant), 
1174  (Renaissance),  1175  (It.  & 
Span.  Renaiss.),  1191  (Classi- 
cism), 1194  (Baroque),  1199  (Ro- 
koko),  1204  (Romanticism),  1211 
(Naturalism),  1396  (Poetical 
language),  1446  (Criticism),  14- 
57  (Gehalt  &  Gestalt),  1469  (Cri- 
ticism), 1545a  (Purgatorio),  1598 
(Literature  through  Art),  1598c 
(Teresa-Greco),  1598d  (Cervantes- 
Velazquez) 

Hazard,   P.     25 

Heatwole,   O.   W.     1277 

Heege,   W.     878 

Hefti,  F.     907 

Heidel,   G.     267 

Heimerle,   M.     231 

Heinermann,   Th.     1046 

Heinrich,   G.     678 

Heiss,  H.  41  (Booz),42  (Omphale), 
153   (Hugo,  Odes),  516   (Moliere) 

Hempel,  H.     500 

Henry,  A.       1516a 

Hensch,    T.     1526 

Hermant,  A.     97 

Herrwaldt,   I.     1521 

Hesse,  E.       1598a 

Hier,  F.     1109 

Hildebran,    K.    B.     905 

Hilka,  A.     806 

Hiller,  J.   E.     1196 

Hitz,    M.    F.     781 

Hjelmslev,  S.       1388,  1407 

Hodin,  J.   P.     1418 

Hoerner,  M.     1426 

Hoffmann,   C.     334 

Hofmann,  J.  B.     1274 

Holmes,  U.  T.     1272 


288 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


Hoornaert,   R.     637 
Hoppe,  H.     922 
Houdoy,   J.     1033 
Hourticq,   L.     1436 
Hovenkamp,  J.  W.     890 
Hiibner.   E.     1197 
Hiippi,  B.     1527 
Huguet,  E.     839,  1002 
Hultenberg,    H.     1323 
Humpers,  A.     262 
Huppe,  W.     325 
Hytier,  J.     1374,  1453 

Ibrovac,  M.     180 

Imbs,    P.     795 

Infante,  J.  C.     355 

Ingarden,    R.     1404 

Insula     1483 

Iordan,  I.     119,  444,  445,  1264,  1328 

Iraggi,   G.     380 

Jaberg,  K.     1272 

Jager,  M.     596 

James,   D.     550 

Jan,  E.  von     1016 

Janner,  H.     1062 

Jekel,  G,     1030 

Jenni,  A.       1507b 

Jeschke,  H.     1018,  1209 

Jimenez,  J.  R.       688 

Jorder,   O.     642 

Johansen,   S.     62,   474,   1407 

Jolles,    A.     1059 

Jordan,    L.     295 

Josephson,    M.     538 

Jourda,    P.     158 

Jouve,  P.  J.     1513 

Julia  Martinez,  L.       357 

Jungo,  H.  M.       1515 

J  unker  sdorffi,    A.     547 

Kaiser,  G.  A.     331 
Kaul,  G.     348 
Kaupp,    L.     422 
Kayser,    W.     697,    1408 
Keller,  J.  E.     1145 
Kellermann,  W.     234,  251,   1539 
Kerkhoff,    E.    L.     1359 
Kirk  Aish,  D.  A.     852 
Klein,   H.   W.     1331 
Klemperer,  V.     57 
Knauer,  K.     783,  959,  1286 
Kneller,  J.   W.     582 
Knickerbocker,  W.  S.     1355 
Knoblauch,    H.     947 
Koechlin,    E.     1075 
Koegel,    T.     847 
Kohler,   E.    E.     1206 
Korver,  C.     1056 
Kohler,  E.     641 
Kohler,  P.     604 


Kommerell,   M.     669 
Konrad,  H.     1422 
Kozesnik,     K.     521 
Krafft,  J.  G.      1405,  1595a 
Krauche,  L.     597 
Kress,  D.  M.     199 
Kristeller,  K.  O.     966,  1569 
Kroehling,    W.     995 
Krumbholz,   C.   W.     569 
Kuechler,    E.     1102 
Kuhn,   H.     902 
Kullmann,  E.       622 
Kuttner,    M.     1288 

Labande-Jeanroy,    T.     717 

Lacher,   W.     1212 

Lacour,   J.     514 

LaDriere,   J.    C.     1403 

Lagden,  H.     1260 

Lalande,  B.     851 

Lalo,  Ch.     23 

Lamarche,  G.     278 

Landau,    H.     304,    894 

Langen,   A.     925 

Lanson,  G.     35,  87,  100,  1147 

Lapesa,    R.     249,    635 

Lapp,  J.   C.     1554 

Larbaud,  V.     1411 

Larnac,    J.     592 

Lauchenauer,    N.     930 

Laurent,  J.       1507A 

Lausberg,  H.     116,  1249 

Lavaud,  J.     184 

Lazaro,  F.     1474 

Le  Bidois,  R.       1569c 

Le  Breton,  A.     26 

Ledig,   G.     1108 

Le  Du,  A.     787 

Lefranc,   G.     476 

Legrand,    E.     Ill 

Le  Hir,  Y.       553,  1530 

Lehmann,  R.     333 

Lemaitre,  H.       608,  1081 

Lempicki,  Z.     1464 

Leo,  U.  10  (Objective  criticism), 
235  (Solitude).  248,  684  (Gal- 
legos),  685  (Dona  Barbara),  703 
704,  705  (Dante),  744  (Fogaz- 
zaro),  1140,  1141  (Pirandello), 
1181  (Tasso),  1416  (Collective 
style),   1463    (Stilmonographie) 

Lepiorz,  G.  1074 

Lerch,  E.  1042  (Erlebte  Rede), 
1050  (Imperfect),  1228  (Frank- 
reichkunde),  1235  (Franzosische 
Sprache),  1243  ( Spanische 
Sprache),  1287  (Typen),  1298 
(Subjunctive),  1299  (Imperfect), 
1301    (Future) 

LeSage,    L.     609    (Prince   des   Pre- 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


289 


cieux),  853  (Giraudoux-Meta- 
phor),  854  (Giradoux-Cliche), 
1004  (Sheep,  fleece  .  .),  1560 
(Non-dramatic    Giraudoux) 

Levengood,  S.  L.     884 

Levy,    S.   N.     933 

Lewent,  K.     277,  495 

Lewis,  C.  D.     1424 

Lewis,   C.   S.     1011 

Lewy,  E.     1222,  1227 

Lhermet,  J.  513 

Lida  (de  Malkiel),  M.  R.  203 
(Quevedo),  226  (Ruisenor),  227 
(Transmision),  228  (Don  Qui- 
jote),  634  (Guevara),  794  (My- 
thology), 810  (Hyperbole),  1485 
(Mena) 

Lida,  R.  345,  804,  832,  1282 

Lion,  F.  1382,  1383 

Liou,  Kin  Ling   544 

Lipari,  A.  721 

Lipparini,  G.     906 

Lips,  M.     1041 

Lipsker,   E.     1089 

Lisio,  G.     763 

Loefstedt,    E.     1275 

Loehmann,    O.     939 

Losch,  G.     287 

Lombard,  A.     973,  1049,  1082 

Lommatzsch,  E.     1057,  1058 

Lopez  Estrada,  F.      359,  773 

Lorck,  E.     1300 

Loyen,   A.     490 

Lucchetti,  L.     840 

Liicker,    M.     254 

Lugli,   V.     1491 

Macandrew,    R.    M.     1154 

McClain,  W.   H.     241 

McDonald,   R.    E.     450 

McGarry,  Mother  Francis  de  Sales 
352 

McGhee,  D.  M.     937 

McLean,  M.  D.     206 

Maggioni,  Sr.  Mary  Julie     1190 

Malagoli,  L,     383 

Malblanc,    A.     1241 

Maldonado,  F.     1021 

Malkiel,  Y.       1320 

Mancini,  F,     1523 

Mangold,  M.     1590 

Mapes,  E.  K.     1014 

March,   H.     583,   584 

Mari,  G.     105 

Mariani,  V.     735 

Marni,  A.     835 

Marouzeau,  J.  110  (Precis),  112 
Stylistique  comparee),  1280 
(Deux  aspects).  1283,  1284  (Ac- 
cent affectif),  1285  (Onomatope- 
es),  1349  (Relief  dans  1  'enonce), 


1459     (Langue     et     style),     1460 

(Etude  du  style),  1461  (Taches  de 

la  stylistique) 
Marti,  M.     711 
Martin,    E.-L.     786 
Martinez,  E.  J.     357,  1125 
Martinez,  F.  A.     1495 
Martinez,  J.  L.     1377 
Mascagni,    P.     31 
Massis,  H.     567 
Mativa,  A.     515 
Matt,   H.     886 
Matz,  W.     1052 
Maurer,    K.     830 
Maury,    P.     1434 
Mautner,  F.  H.       1063 
Mayer,    G.     843,    874 
Mayr,   O.     726 
Meier,  H.     656 
Meillet,    A.     1398 
Melang,   W.     1205 
Mele,    E.     1579 
Melendez,    C.     676 
Melloy,  C.     125 
Menendez  Pidal,  R.       342,  627,  1153, 

1539a 
Menzerath,  P.   1224 
Meozzi,    A.     1183 
Meregalli,  F.     953 
Merian-Genast,   E.       239,   456,   524, 

1511a 
Merk,  J.     1060 
Merryman,  M.     1262 
Meyer-Liibke,   W.     1237,    1268 
Michaelson,    K.     1588 
Michaud,  G.       1496,  1530d 
Michaut,  G.     529 
Michel,  P.     1498 
Michelini,   F.     402 
Michell,  J.      1441 
Michels,  M.      329,  1188 
Migliorini,  B.     120,  121,  1254 
Millon,  Ch.  J.     1306 
Milner,  Z.     245,  246 
Momigliano,  A.     68,  407,  737 
Montanari,  F.     73 
Montiel,  I.     1039 

Montoliu,  M.     See  De  Montoliu,  M. 
Morawski,  J.     1329 
Moreau,  P.     484,  1085 
Moreno  Baez,  E.       658,  1541 
Moreux,  Th.     101 
Morier,  H.     789,  1490 
Mornet,  D.      1148 
Morris,  E.  P.     1448 
Moser,  R.       1587a 
Mousseat,  E.     30 
Mousset,  J.     327 
Mouton,  J.     310 
Muller,  C.     229 
Mueller,  F.     897 


290 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


Mueller,  H.     871 
Mueller-Hauser,  M.-L.      1348 
Mukarovsky,  J.       1594 
Mulertt,  W.      1040 
Muller,  Ch.     136 
Muller,  F.     897 
Muller,  H.  F.      489,  967 
Munoz,  Cortes,  M.       356,  368 
Munro,  T.      1430,  1445 
Murias  de  Freitas,  M.     885,  1058 

Nadler,  J.      1370 

Nardin,  P.       308,  590,  1512,  1529a 

Naumann,  W.      446,  858 

Navarro,  T.     980 

Naves,  R.     537 

Naylor,  L.  H.     178 

Neale-Silva,  E.     1489 

Neddermann,  E.     831 

Neff,  E.     1202 

Nelson,  H.   L.   W.      492 

Nemes-io,  V.     376 

Neri,  F.      723 

Nessi,  A.  O.      1091 

Neumeyer,  E.  M.      931 

Neumiiller,  J.     799 

Niedermann,   W.     1486 

Nordick,   A.     328 

O'Brien,  J.     1535 
Olbrich,  R.     371 
Olivero,  F.     812,  857 
Olschki,  L.     389,  392,  1152 
Onimus,  J.  A.     1559 
Obris  Litterarum       1481 
Oroz,  R.      636,  1340 
Orozco  Dias,  E.      1179 
Orr,  J.     1556 
Orth,  H.      1122 
Osmont,  R.     541 
Oster,  H.     1592 
Outzen,  G.     934 
Owen,  A.  L.     679 
Oxenhandler,  N.      1572b 

Pabst,  W.     664 

Paiva  Boleo,  M.     See  De  Paiva 

Boleo,  M. 
Palencia,  A.  G.     1579 
Panesso  Robledo,  A.     657,  1278 
Pantke,  A.     165 
Panzini,  A.      78,  1392 
Paolantonacci,  J.   T.     210 
Parize,  J.-H.     598 
Parker,  A.  A.     862 
Parodi,  E.  G.      769 
Pasch,  K.     457 
Patterson,  W.  F.     1176 
Paulhan,  F.     1375,  1391 
Pauphilet,  A.     195 
Payot,  J.     98 


Pedemonte,  H.  E.     1593 
Pedraglio,  C.     861 
Pei,  M.  A.      496,  1255 
Peixoto,  A.      372 
Pellegrini,  S.      760 
Pellizzari,  A.      758 
Pereira,  M.  H.  R.       1561 
Peter,  M.      1350 
Petkanov,   I.   A.     749 
Petrocchi,  G.      1547 
Petronio,  G.       720,  1568 
Peyre,  H.      1193 
Peyton,  M.  A.      660 
Pfandl,  L.      819 
Picard,  R.     620 
Pichon,  E.      1236 
Pierce,  F.       1574,  1584 
Pierre-Quint,   L.      155 
Pipping,  R.      1389,  1390 
Plancarte,  A.  M.      1509 
Plowert,  J.       1320 
Poggiolo,  R.      617 
Polanscak,  A.     926 
Polimeni,  A.      756 
Polverini,    G.     560 
Pommier,  J.      65,  1514 
Pongs,  H.      1425 
Popava,  I.  M.      32 
Pope,  F.  R.     893 
Portier,  L.      1123 
Pradal-Rodriguez,  G.     247,  775 
Praz,  M.      1010 
Preis,  P.      1341 
Preston,  E.      940 
Previtera,  C.      734 
Price,  W.  R.     820 
Proust,  M.      134,  274 
Pucciani,  O.       1572b 
Pugliesi,  P.     755 
Puppo,  M.      412,   740 
Puscariu,  S.       1267,  1270 

Rabanales  Ortiz,  A.       1342 

Radmann,  L.      454 

Rajna,  P.     964 

Raleigh,   W.   A.     1356 

Rannie,  D.  W.      1357,  1467 

Raphael,  M.      315 

Ras,   A.     1379 

Ratermanis,  J.  B.     8,  161,  162,  439, 

440,  1565,  1570 
Rauhut,  F.      977 
Raymond,  M.      1185,  1395 
Reboux,  P.     103,  136,  593 
Redier,  A.     487 
Reding,   R.   P.      1210 

Refort,  L.     132,  269,  552 

Regius,  K.      260 

Regula,  M.     1238,  1281,  1308  (Syn- 
tax &  stylistics),  1317   (Affective 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


291 


circumlocution),     1347      (Heraus- 

hebungen) 
Reinders,  Pater  M.     712 
Reitz,  H.     921 
Remos  y  Rubio,  J.  J.     1413 
Revuelta  y  Revuelta,  L.      672 
Rew,  C.  L.     849 
Reyes,  A.     1415 
Reynier,  G.      1034 
Ribi,  M.     437 
Rice,  W.  H.     507 
Richter,  E.      1282,  1493 
Richthofen,  E.  von     353,  1157, 

1576 
Rieder,  G.     300 
Rietmann,  Ch.  E.      1106 
Ritter,  R.      137 
Rivaille,  L.      147 
Roaten,  D.  H.       1598b 
Robert,  C.  M.      1221 
Roberts,  G.  B.      1012 
Roberts,  M.  H.      1220 
Robertson,  M.  E.  I.      873 
Rocca,  P.     210 
Rodrigue,  E.  M.      845 
Rodriguez  Lapa,  M.      117 
Rodiger,  J.     901 
Roehl,  G.      1098 
Roffare,  F.  T.     391,  833 
Rogger,  K.       1530b 
Rohlfs,  G.      1189,  1259 
Romera-Navarro,  M.      170,  171,  836 
Romeu,  R.     1071 
Roncarati,  L.      750 
Rosales,  L.      1124 
Rosenbaum,  R.      899 
Rosenberg,  S.  L.  M.      1025 
Rosenblatt,  A.     347 
Rosetti,  A.     1294 
Ross,  C.  R.     181 
Rossi,  M.      707,  727,  859,   1367 
Rost,  K.     924 
Rostaing,  M.      281 
Rotunda,  D.  P.      1143 
Roulet,  C.       59,  60,  61,  1503a 
Roustan,  M.     1,  2 
Royere,  J.      1437 
Rubow,  P.  von     36 
Ruchti,  M.     1105 
Rudler,  G.     3 
Rudolph,  M.     517 
Ruetsch,  J.     340 
Ruff,  H.     46 
Ruff,  M.  A.       557b 
Ruhm,  O.     728 
Rusu,  L.     1120 
Rutten,  M.     1596 

Saavedra,  Y.  P.     682 
Saavedra  Molina,  J.       1597a 
Sabatier,  P.     565 


Saboia  de  Medeiros,  F.      696 

Sacchetto,  A.      860 

Sachs,  C.      1444 

Saidla,  L.  E.  A.      1410 

Sainean,  L.     268,  1339 

Saint  Clair,  G.      856 

Salembien,   L.      366 

Salinas,  P.      626,  629,  674 

Salmon,  R.      1414 

Salverda  de  Grave,  J.  J.      494 

Samperio,  J.  V.  M.      630 

Sanchez  de  Muniain,  J.  M.      1022 

Sanchez  y  Escribano,  F.       1598b 

Sanminiatelli,  B.      908 

Sansone,  G.  E.      1564 

Santangelo,  S.      414 

Santoli,  V.      1257 

Sarthou,  M.      4 

Sartre,  J.  P.      1385 

Saurat,  D.      1213 

Sayce,  R.  A.      1529 

Scarpa,  A.     952 

Schalk,  F,     1064 

Scherer,  J.       309,  1578a 

Schiaffini,  A.      765,  766,  1151,  1172 

Schilliro,  V.      751 

Schilperoort,  J.  C.      237 

Schlauch,   M.      779 

Schlotke,  C.      594 

Schlumberger,  B.      1497 

Schmidt,   E.      431 

Schnabel,  W.      842 

Schneider,  H.     919 

Schone,  M.      303,  305,  323 

Scholz,  G.      1251 

Schrijnen,  J.      1273 

Schiirr,    F.      1111      (Carpe     diem), 

1168     (Epos),    1198     (Baroque), 

1263    (Portuguese) 
Schulte-Herbruggen,  H.      1540 
Schulz,  A.      335 
Schulz,  I.      1337,  1338 
Schulz-Gora,  O.     996 
Schweitzer,  A.     546 
Schwockel,  G.     935 
Seeleman,  R.      1017 
Segre,  C.       1568a 
Sells,  A.  L.      430,  1531 
Serra,  L.      870 
Seznec,  J.      191 
Sgroi,  C.      735 
Shields,  J.     236 
Siebenmann,  G.     1528 
Siebert,  K.     900 
Silver,  I.     216,  217 
Simon,  G.     163 
Singleton,  C.  S.      722 
Skard,  S.     889 
Smith,  M.  M.     1139 
Snell,  B.      1090 
Snijman,  F.  J.     1468 


292 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


Sobry,  P.     1173 
Soreil,  A.      104 
S0rensen,  H.     312,  1516 
Souriau,  E.     1431 
Souriau,  M.     276 
Sousa  Costa,  P.     956 
Specker,  L.     435 
Spicer,  J.  R.     1013 
Spiegelberg,  W.  E.     545 
Spire,  A.     1400,  1443 

Spitzer,  L.  11  (Hist,  of  Ideas),  12, 
13  (Voltaire),  14  (Romains,  Ron- 
sard),  15  (Villon),  16  (Claudel's 
Ballad),  17  (Abenamar),  18  (Le 
Cor),  38  (Bel  aubepin),  44  (Clau- 
del),  50  (Jaufre  Rudel),  82,  83 
(Soledades),  198  (P.  Valery), 
222  (Ecstasy),  238  (Goethe),  286 
(Barbusse),  289  (Stilsprachen), 
290  (Literaturstudien),  291  (Es- 
says in  stylistics),  292  (Method), 
293  (Peguy's  style),  294  (Ro- 
mains),  296  (Proust),  299  (Ra- 
cine), 452  (Thibaudet),  453 
(Diderot),  465  (Theramene),  468 
(Inferno),  470  (Aetheria),  473 
(Symbolists),  624  (Cid),  633 
(Guevara),  646  (Quijote),  654 
(Cervantes  Novelle),  659  (Bus- 
con),  663  (Soledades),  686  (Sa- 
linas), 796  (Celine),  800  (La 
Fontaine),  803  (Manrique),  814 
(Rabelais),  932  (Saint  Simon), 
954  (Inferno),  993  (Enumera- 
tion), 1009  (Calderon),  1047  (Di- 
rect Speech),  1072  (Rabelais), 
1223  (Tipologia),  1253  (Um- 
gangssprache) ,  1316  (Poss.  pro- 
noun), 1318  (Span,  "que"),  1321 
(Word-repetition),  1324  (Asyn- 
detische  Vergleiche),  1325  (Auf- 
satze),  1326  (Liebessprache), 
1344  ( Fait  -  accompli ) ,  1394 
(Poetry),  1449,  1450,  1451  (Wort- 
kunst),  1452  (Styl.  Essays),  1506a 
(contra  Bruneau) 

Spoerri,  T.  53  (Valery),  54  (Prae- 
ludium),  56  (Sonett  Mallarmes), 
523  (Racine),  525  (Racine 
rhythm),  710  (Dante),  782 
(Rhythm),  855  (Valery),  983 
(French  versification),  1178 
(Ariosto-Tasso),  1371  (Poesie), 
1372  (Das  Tragische),  1373 
(Formwerdung),  1475  (Cri- 
ticism) 

Spongano,  R.     394,  965 
Staedler,  E.     768 
Stahl,  A.     1121 
Stanford,  W.  B.     875 


Stanton,  R.     916 

Steel,  E.  M.     1555 

Steger,  C.      469 

Steiger,  I.     715 

Stein,  H.  A.     1104 

Stein,  L.     1435 

Steinweg,  C.     519 

Sten,  H.     1261 

Stender-Petersen,  A.     1388 

Steiss,  A.     1136 

Stevens,  L.  C.     265 

Sticco,  M.      1127 

Strageberg,  N.  C.     718 

Streit,  G.     215 

Strohmeyer,  F.     1226 

Sturel,  R.     968 

Stutterheim,  C.  F.  P.      1360,  1423 

Styger,  F.     436 

Suchier,  W.     1291 

Svanascini,  O.     1575 

Switzer,  R.     772 

Sylvania,  L.  E.  V.     918 

Sypher,  W.       1583a 

Taeschler,  H.     613 
Tagliavini,  C.     1250 
Tallgren-Tuulio,  O.  J.      1334 
Taruschio,  L.     958 
Taupin,  R.     1156 
Taylor,  A.     1353 
Templin,  E.  H.     1118 
Tenney,  E.  A.     1354 
Terstegge,  Sr.  Georgiana     449, 

1132 
Tescari,  I.     998 
Therive,  A.     1232 
Thibaudet,  A.     52,  562 
Thiery,  M.     131 
Thiessing-Specker,  L.     616 
Thomas,  L.  P.     1110 
Thompson,  F.  B.     673 
Thoraval,  J.       1534 
Tiedtke,  I.     850 
Timmermans,  B.  J.  H.  M.     788 
Tiscornia,  E.  F.     346 
Tissot,  A.     605 
Tobler,  A.     1336 
Todemann,  Fr.      1043 
Togeby,  K.     1589 
Tonelli,  L.     419,  706 
Torrey,  N.  L.     183 
Tosi,  G.     255 
Trabalza,  C.     1368 
Trahard,  P.     591,  1409 
Trivium     1480 
Trubetzkoy,  N.  S.      1406 
True,  G.     601,603 
Trudgian,  H.     574 
Tudisco,  A.     1096 

Uhrhan,  E.  E.     1586 


Index  of  Style  Investigators 


293 


Ullmann,   S.       815,   879,   880,   1307, 

1550d,  1569b 
Urbano,  L.  D.      864 

Vailati,   M.     1548 

Valbuena  Pratt,  A.     361,  362 

Valeri,  D.     910 

Valery,  P.     85,   1398 

Valkhoff,  M.     1269 

Vallese,  R.     1093 

Valli,  E.      1133 

Valli,   L.      66 

Vallot,  Ch.     1099 

Valverde,  J.  M.     693,  802,  1597b 

Van  Dam,  J.      1477 

Van  der  Molen,  W.      1302 

Van  Stockum,  Th.  C.     1599 

Vannier,  A.      89 

Van  Tieghem,  P.     1116,  1203 

Varese,  C.      409 

Vela,  A.      1216 

Venettis,  J.      40 

Veo,  E.     811 

Veres  d'Ocon,  E.      797,  798 

Vetterli,  W.     701 

Vial,  F.       1572b 

Vianey,  J.      5,  182,  511,  532 

Vianu,  T.      945,  1150 

Vicinelli,  A.     78 

Vietor,  K.     1478 

Vigneron,  R.      7,  579,  580 

Villa,  V.  M.      405 

Villani,  C.     420 

Villey,  P.     482,  483,  510 

Vincent,  F.      145 

Vincent,  J.      485 

Vincent,   L.     272 

Vising,  J.      1369 

Vivier,  R.     554 

Vogl,  A.     827 

Vogler,  M.     923 

Voile,  C.      37 

Vortriede,   W.     1086 

Vossler,  K.  22  (Divine  Comedy), 
434  (Cellini),  455  (Frankreich), 
518  (Racine),  702  (Divine  Com- 
edy), 1115  (Einsamkreit),  1217 
(Sprachen  als  Stile),  1218  (It., 
Fr.,  Span.),  1219  (Span.),  1256 
(Ital.  and  German) 

Vuille,  M.      822,  1137 

Wade,  I.  O.     466 
Wadsworth,  Ph.  A.      1537 
Wagner,  M.  L.     1327,  1335 
Wais,  K.  55,  447,  1427 
Walker,  T.   C.     896 


Walzel,  O.     570,  1458 
Wandruszka,  M.      428 
Wann,  H.  V.      1007 
Wanner,  M.     425 
Wardropper,  B.  W.       1539b 
Warren,  F.  M.      1165,  1479 
Wartburg,  W.  von      1229,  1230, 

1242 
Ways,  I.      1088 
Webber,  R.  H.       1572a 
Weber,  H.     319 
Wegener,  A.     298 
Wehrli,  L.     424,  600 
Weidmann,  M.      426 
Weikert,  M.      731 
Weil,  A.     324 
Weise,  K.  O.      877 
Weiss,  A.  H.       1560a 
Weiss,  K.     898 
Weisser,  F.      351 
Wellek,  R.      1192,  1429,  1479 
Wencelius,  L.     509 
Wenger,  J.      809 
Werner,  E.      1031 
Wespi,  H.-U.      1055 
Whiteley,  J.-H.      285,  331 
Whittredge,  R.      691 
Wicke,  B.     427 
Widmer,  F.      1330 
Wiemann,  H.      920 
Willers,  H.      224 
Willige,   W.     526 
Wilson,  C.  M.      881 
Wilson,  E.  M.      169,  867 
Wimsatt,  W.  K.      1438,  1470 
Winkler,     E.      47      (Alexius),     477 

(Gegenwartslyrik),  1364  (Kunst- 
werk),  1365  (Grundlegung),  1402 

(Form),  1462    (Stilistik) 

Winkler,  R.     1533 
Wirth,  L.      911 
Witte,  A.     253 
Wittkower,  E.      460 
Wolf,  R.  H.     341 
Woods,  W.  S.     497 
Wosnessensky,  A.  N.      1465 

Yvon,  H.     1303 

Zaeske,  K.     338 

Zamora  Vicente,  A.      1544 

Zancanella,  V.      1595 

Zanetti,  E.      1520 

Zeltner-Neukomm,  G.     615,  619 

Zeraffa,  M.      1538 

Zyromski,  E.      548 


Index  of  Names,  Problems,   Terms 


References  are  to  numbers,  not  to  pages. 


UAbbesse   de   Castro    193 

Abenamar     17 

Accent     1283-84 

Achtsilbner     1166 

Acis  y  Galatea     220 

Adam,  Paul     282 

Adjective     1323,    see    also    Epithet 

L' Adonis     159,  see  also  La  Fontaine 

Adynaton     996-8 

Aesthetics  167,  370,  506,  509,  551, 
558-9,  561,  565,  566,  574,  586,  687, 
699,  701,  718,  1022,  1034,  1133, 
1156,  1158,  1163,  1225,  1363,  1381, 
1431,  1561,  1595a 

Aetheria     470 

Ahistorique       15 

Alain       138 

Alarcon,  J.  R.  de     365 

A  la  recherche  du  temps  perdu  29, 
581 

UAlbatros     166,  see  also  Baudelaire 

Aleixandre,  Vicente     802,  488 

Aleman,  Mateo     658 

Alexandrine     789,    1490,    1570-71 

Alexis     47    48,  49 

Alfieri,  410,  411,  735,  870',  1127,  1507b 

Allegory     834-37,  1574 

Almeida   Garrett     697 

Amadigi    404 

Amor  et  Psyche     1075,  1081 

Amphitryon     190,    242 

Analysis  20,  23,  26,  28,  32,  46,  72, 
76,  77,  78,  84,  528,  1430 

Anaphora    797 

Ancien  Francais     1239,  1309 

Anglicism     815 

Animation     934-6 

Anthero  de  Quental     696 

Anthology     1153 

Antithesis     812-813,    1553 

Aphorism     1063-1066 

Apollinaire     138 

Apollinaris  Sidonius     490,  491 

Archamp     1052 

Architecture  557a,  557b,  1541,  See 
also   Structure 

Arcipreste  de  Hita     351,  1539 

Argot     1337 

Ariosto  184-87,  728-30,  1088,  1178, 
1563a 

Art  (literary)  35,  87,  90,  97-105, 
126,  127,  181,  182,  240,  395,  400, 
443,  464,  487,  489,  760,  896,  908, 
965,  1033,  1147,  1150,  1286,  1364, 


1382-3,    1408,    1412,     1484,    1534, 

1536,  1540,  1546-48,  1552a,  1580 
Art     (painting,    music    etc.)      1426- 

47,   1598 
Art  poetique    (Boileau)      1501 
Article     1313-14,    1345 
Aspect     1351 
Assimilation     91 
Assise  la  fileuse     198 
Assommoir     302 
Asyndeton     1324 
Atala     785,  878 
Attic  Prose     969 
Aucassin  et  Nicolette  1530b,  1564 
Aufbau,  see  structure 
Avellaneda     1511 
Les  Aventures  du  bar-on  de  Faeneste 

463 
Azorin      687,  1550a 

Baldus     172,  400 

Ballad       1572a,  see  also  Romance 

Balzac,    Honore    de,    488,    551,    539, 

874,  904,  940-42,  1072,  1500,  1531, 

1533a 
Bandello     1547 
Barbusse,    Henri     286 
Baroque     994,    1177-95,    1198,    1492, 

1581-86,  1583a 
Basile,   Giambattista     415 
Bau     1222,  see  also  structure 
Baudelaire     166,    215,    440,    554-60, 

788,  1138,  1572b 
Bazin,    Rene     903 
Beaumarchais       1530d 
Becquer     200,  671 
Bel  aubepin     37,  1503 
Belli     811 

Berchet,    Giovanni     384 
Berceo     358 

Bernardin  de    Saint-Pierre    878 
Bernardo  de  Balbuena       1574 
Bible     513,  830 
Bilac,  Olavo     698 
Blasco  Ibafiez     1518 
Bloy,  Leon       422,  423 
Boccaccio        189,    765-766,    769,    see 

also  Decamerone 
Boiardo     725,   1088 

Boileau     1501 

Bolivar     364 

Bossuet     449,    480,    530,    532,    533, 

1527 
Booz  endormi     41 


Index  of  Proper  Names,  Titles,  etc. 


295 


Borges,  Jorge  Luis     695 
Bourdaloue     531,  781 
Brantome     265 
Buffon     160,  901 
Buscon     659 

Calderon     218,    352,    361,    362,    669, 

1009,  1188,  1585a,  1598c 
Calvin,  J.     46,  280,  509 
Camilo     378 

Camoes     372,  373,  471,  472,  885,  956 
Campanella     991 
Campbell     206 
Camus     196 
Cancion    a    las    ruinas    de    Itdlica 

169 
Cantar  de  Mio  Cid,  see  Poema  del 

Cid 
Cantico  del  Sole     210,  712,  713 
Canzone  alia  Notte     74 
Capuana,   L.     758 
Caracteres       1550b 
Carducci     73,  385,  906,   907 
Carmontelle     1067 
Caro,   Annibale     405 
Caro,  Rodrigo     169 
"Carpe  diem"     1112-13 
Carrillo,  Luis     667 
Castello    di    Udine     75 
Castiglione,   Baldassarre     727 
Caterina  da  Siena,  Santa     387,  388, 

1133,  1523 
Cavalcanti,  Guido     711,  1546 
Caza  de  amor     208 
Cecchi,   Emilio     756 
Celestina     630 

Celine,  Ferdinand      603,  796,  1551 
Cellini,    Benvenuto     432-4 
Celoso  Extremeno     654-655 
Cena   Trimalchionis     492 
Les  Cenci     192 
Cernuda,   Luis     355 
Cervantes,  Miguel  de     25,  207,  347, 

643-57,  1039,  1125,  1511,   1541-43, 

1563,  1598d 
Cezanne  606 
Chanson  de  Guillaume       1530a,  see 

Willelme 
Chanson    de    Roland,    see    Roland 
Chateaubriand,    Alphonse    de     176- 

79,  324,  329,  785,  878,  896-7,  1093, 

1107 
Chartreuse     de     Parme     158,     430, 

449-50,  1531 
Chaucer,  Geoffrey     779 
Chiesa,  Francesco     754 
Chretien     de     Troyes     232-34,     251, 

501-506,  806,  944,  1052,  1167 
Christine  de  Pisan     237 
Chroniqueurs    financiers     320 
Ciceronian    style     772 


Cimetiere  Marin     39,  257 

Cinna     1499 

Cino  da  Pistoja       1523a 

Cinq  Mars       546 

Clarte     89,  1148 

Classicism     298,  299,  673,  793,  1185, 

1187,   1191,   1198,    1578a 
Claudel,  P.        16,  44,   612,   795,   830, 

1507a,  1572b 
Coelho,  Trindade       250 
Coeur  simple     563 
Coimbra     1100 

Colette,  Mme     442,  591,  592,  593 
Collective  style     1416 
Colon,  Cristobal     342 
Color       875-90,  1561a 
Comedie     humaine     942,      see     also 

Balzac 
Corame   on  voit  sur  la  branche     14 
Commentaire  psychologique       197 
Commento  estetico     71,  173 
Comparison,   see   Imagery 
Composition,  see  Structure 
Conceptismo       686,  1010 
Conjuntos     semejantes,     see     Pluri- 

membracion 
Construction   of   sentence     973-5 
Les   Contemplations     148,    149 
Contes  drolatiques     1072 
Contes    philosophiques     937 
Cor     18 
Corneille,     Pierre     147,     456,     846, 

1196,  1499 
Correction     92 
Costumbrismo     1207 
Courier,   P.-L.     281 
Creanga     445 
Creation      (litteraire)  65,     1532, 

1599b 
Cristiada     1584 
El   Criticon     360,    836 
Criticism     10,     77,     707,     708,     719, 

959,  1433,  1446,  1448-82 
Cruz   e   Sousa     375 
Lo  Cunto  de  li  cunti     415 
Cursus     761-66,    769,    961-64,    1566- 

68a 

Dance     1444 

D'Annunzio     751-53,   790 

Dante  66,  382,  383,  700-710,  763- 
64,  767,  791,  818,  856-60,  963,  964, 
1108,   1522a,   1545a,   1568a 

Dario,  Ruben     213,  345,  674 

D'Aubigne,    Agrippa     463,    1582 

Daudet,  Leon     137,  337 

Death     1121-27 

Decadence     1214 

Decamerone       120-23,  939,  1547a 

De  cuyo  nombre  no  quiero 
acordarme     228 


296 


Index  of  Proper  Names,  Titles,  etc. 


De  Guerin,  Maurice     425 

De  Lafayette,  Mme     436,  527,  528 

De  la  Fouchardiere,   Georges     303 

Del  Campo,  E.     1517 

Deledda,   Grazia     750 

Delie     319 

Demolder     894 

De  Regnier,  see  Regnier 

Descartes       848,   1526 

Deschamps,  Eustache     834 

Description     891-933,    1016-40 

De  Sousa,  Claudio     816 

Desportes,   Philippe     184-187 

Deutung    54,    see    also    Interpreta- 
tion 

Diable  Boiteux     224 

Diablo   cojuelo     224,   225,   368 

Dialogue       1126,  1552a 

Diana       1539b 

Diaz   Rodriguez,   Manuel     363 

Diderot     258,  453,  821,  925,  1555 

Diminutive     1313-15 

Discours  de  la  methode     1526 

Discours  sur  le  style     160,  see  also 
Buffon 

Discurso  semi-directo     1578,  see 
also  style  indirect  libre 

Divine    Comedy     22,    68,    383,    767, 
768,  999 

Dominique     805 

Dona  Barbara     248,  685 

Don  Diego  de  Noche     660 

Donne,   John     222 

Don   Quijote     25,   194,   643-49,   955, 
1146,  1182,  1541-42 

Don  Segundo  Sombra     683,   866 

Draft,  see  Variants 

Dramaturgie      1578a 

Du  Bellay    216,  217 

Duhamel,   Georges     424,   600-602 

Dumas,  A.,  Pere    809 

Ebauche   d'un  serpent     40 

Eca  de  Queiroz     205,  374,  813,  917- 

18,  946,  957,  1510 
Ecriture     102 
Ecrivain     92,  94,  95,  129,  515,  637, 

1099 
Ecstasy     222 

Education  sentimentale       1550d 
Effares     1502 
"Einfache  Formen"     1059 
Elegy     236 

Eloquence,  See  Rhetorics 
Eluard,  Paul     616 
Elucidation     59 
Eminescu,     Mihail     443,     444,     945, 

1119 
Ennui     1135-1138 
Enriquillo     1545 
Enseignement    8,  see  also  Teaching 


Enumeration    993 

Enumerative   style     798 

Epic  500,  1051-52,  1168,  1539a, 
1576 

Epistola  moral  a  Fabio       1560a 

Epithet     869-874,    1012-14 

Epoch  style     1158-1216,   1580-87 

Erec     504,  1052 

Esprit  des  Lois     1105 

Espronceda,  Jose  de     202,  951 

Estaunie     594-5 

Estilistica  106,  117,  213,  see  Sty- 
listics 

Eufrosina     1100 

Eurico  o  Presbitero     461 

Europe     1082 

European    literature     284,    1203 

Eve     1559 

Exegesis  40,  1471,  see  also  Inter- 
pretation 

Exemplum     1145 

Explication  1,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  14,  20, 
39,  1497,  1503,  see  also  Interpre- 
tation 

Expression  33,  115,  822,  825,  1142, 
1346-48,  1352,  1456,  1505,  1572, 
1599a 

Fabliaux     1562 

Fait  accompli     1344 

Faldella,  Giovanni     1524 

Faure,  Gabriel     283 

Fausto    (criollo)      1517 

Femme  de  trente  ans      1533 

Fenelon      535,  536 

Fernan  Perez  de  Guzman     359,  773 

Fernao    Lopes     376 

Les  Feuilles  d'automne     154 

Fialho  de  Almeida         250,  379 

Fiction,  see  Novel 

Filestetica     1366 

La  Fin  de  Satan     544 

/  Fioretti       255 

Flamboyant     1170 

Flamenca     495 

Flaubert,       Gustave     161,       162-65, 

204,  205,  824-26,  931,  948-49,  1104, 

1205,  1491 
Les   Fleurs   du   mal     215,   440,    556 

557a 
Flor  de  Santidad     1550 
Florit,  Eugenio       688 
Fogazzaro     744-46,    911 
Folengo,  Teofilo     172,  400-401 
Folie  Tristan       1530c 
Fontenelle       799,  901,  1552a 
Form,  see  Style  form  and  Structure 
Formules    alliterees     1329 
Formwerdung     1373 
Foscolo,  Ugo      409,  1523c 


Index  of  Proper  Names,  Titles,  e? c. 


297 


Fourier,  Pierre,  Saint     306,  307 

Fournier,    Alain     197 

Fragment     1065 

France,   Anatole     313,   336,   849 

Francesco  d'Assisi,   San     210,   255 

Francisco  de  la  Torre     777 

Francois  de  Sales,  Saint     145,  278, 

279,  845 
Frankreich     455 
Frey  Luiz  de  Sousa     697 
Future     1301 
Futurism     1215 

Gadda,    Carlo    Emilio     75 

Galdos,   Benito   Perez     371 

Galilei,  G.       392,  393-4 

Gallegos,  Romulo     684 

Galvan     1545 

Garcilaso    de    la    Vega      631,    635, 

862,  915,  1091 
Gamier,  R.       1585b 
Gautier  d*  Arras     325 
Gautier,  Theophile     335,  879 
Gehalt  und  Gestalt     1457-58 
"Peist"     297 
Generacion  de  1898:     1017-18,  1209- 

10 
Generaciones     y     Semblanzas     359, 

773 
Genesis     214 
George,  Stefan     1086 
Georgica     211,  226,  245-47 
Gerusalemme      liberata     249,      404, 

771,  888,  998,  1548 
Geste     1055 
Gide,  Andre       126,  128,  467,  1507a, 

1535 
Giono,  Jean    458 
Giraudoux,     Jean     450,     451,     608- 

11,  853-4,  1516,  1560 
Gitanilla      656 

La  Gloria  de  Don  Ramiro     344,  804 
Glosa     1062 
Glossematique     1407 
Goethe     238,  239,  931 
Goldoni      1511a 
Goncourt    (Edmond   et  Jules)     281, 

565,  1206 
Gongora    81,  82,  83,  218,  219,  220, 

245,  343,  661-66,  774-5,  792-3,  865, 

1509,  1586 
Gottfried  von  Strassburg      230 
Gozzano,  G.     759 
Gracian,  B.     170,  171,  360 
Grammatica     78 
Le   Grand  Meaulnes     197 
Greeo      1598c 
Green,  Julien     613-14 
Groussac,  Paul     681 
Guerra  Junqueiro       1561 
Guerrazzi,    F.    D.     743 


Guevara,  Antonio    224,  632-34 
Guez  de  Balzac,  Louis     275 
Guicciardini     175,   402 
Guillaume  de  Machaut    237 
Guillen,  Jorge     689-93,  778 
Guiraut  de  Bornelh     494 
Guittone  d'Arezzo      1522,  1568a 
Guzman  de  Alfarache       658 

Hamilton,   Antoine     316 

Hartmann  von  Aue    232-234 

Herculano,  Aleixandre       461 

Heredia,  J.  M.     30,  180,  206 

Hermetic  poetry     987 

El  Heroe     170,  171,  see  also  Gracian 

Heroic  poem     835 

Herrera  y  Reissig,  Julio     682 

Hervorhebung,  see  Mise  en  relief 

Histoire   litteraire     6 

History  of  ideas     11,  1394,  1478 

Hojeda     1584 

Holiness     1128-1146 

Homer     176,  177,  1007 

L'homme  entre  deux  ages     45 

Horace     1509 

Hugo,  V.     42,  43,  150-154,  544,  545, 

786,  787,  838-840,  873,  886,  1131- 

2,   1553,   1556 
Humor     946-57,   1071-72,   1245 
Huysmans,   J.-K.     300,   301,   574 
Hylas     1085 
Hyperbole     810 

Idiomatology     1217-1353 

Les    Illuminations     437 

Imagery       196,  270,  456,  822,   838- 

868,  1001-1111,  1134,  1248,  1324, 

1330-34,  1421-25,  1554-61,  1575, 

1583a,  see  also  Symbol 
Imitation     1511,    see    Pastiche 
Imperfect     1050,   1299-1300,   1303-7, 

1309 
Impressionism     287,      298,      919-24, 

1205-6,  1282,  1587a 
Inferno     468,  709,  954 
Infinitive     1295-97 
Ulnfinito     235 
Initiation     31,    34,    80,    96,    184-87, 

189,  207 
Intensity     1346 
Interpretation     9,  10,  12,  13,  16,  21, 

24,  29,  44,  48,  79,  292,  1449,  1497- 

1505,  1539a 
Interrelation  (    of    the    arts)     1445, 

see  also  Parallelism 
Inversion       1550d,  1569b-c,  1570 
Iphigenie       1554 
Irony    946-47,  1071-72,  1564 
Isaacs,  Jorge     676 
Isidorian    style    963 
Island   Voyage     58 


298 


Index  of  Proper  Names,  Titles,  etc. 


L'Isolement     235 

Jacopone  da  Todi     715 

Jammes,  Francis     137 

Jaufre  Rudel     50,  51 

Jean  Christophe       596,   597 

Jean   Lemaire  de  Beiges     262 

Jehova     168,   see   also   Lamartine 

La  Jeune  Parque     312,  599 

Les  Jeunes  France     476 

Jimenez,  Juan  Ramon     831-32,  1096 

Jocelyn     543 

Joinville     478,  479 

Juan    de    la    Cruz,    San     201,  208, 

222,  637-8,  776 
Juan  de  Mena     1485 
Juana  Inez  de  la  Cruz,  Sor     819 

Kenning     1009 
Kleist,  H.  von     241 
Kristian,  see  Chretien 

Labe,    Louise     256 

El  Laberinto     243 

La  Bruyere       182,  529,  1550b 

Lacretelle     128 

Lactantius     1566 

La    Fontaine     159,    189,    327,    520- 

522,   800.   920 
Lamartine     33,  168,  235-36,  543 
Lamennais       553 
Landscape,  see  Description 
Language     262-488,       1002,       1151, 

1172,  1201,  1215,  1217-1353,  1395- 

98,  1412,  1512-30,  1594 
Language      characterization     1225- 

77,  1588-89 

Arabic     1244 

French      12  2  5-1243,     1277, 

1588-89 

German     1240-41,        1256-57 

Greek     1259 

Italian     1242,     1249,     1253- 

59    1277 

Latin     1252,  1273-76 

Portuguese     1260-63 

Retoromance     1272 

Rumanian      1251,      1264-71 

Spanish     1243-52,    1277 

Larreta,  Enrique     344 
Lazarillo  de   Tormes     1528 
Leconte  de  Lisle     285,  330,  331,  822, 

880,  1137 
Legendary  style      1547a 
La  Legende  des  siecles     27 
Leitmotif     1111 
Lemonnier,   Camille     304,   882,   893, 

938 
Leonardo    da    Vinci     72,    390,    391, 

403 
Leopardi     235,  738,  1123 
Lesage     224 


Lessing     1196 

Lettres  persanes       1529a 

Lettura  Dantesca     69 

Libro  del  Buen  Amor     1539 

Liebessprache     1326 

Lied     259 

Linguistics     263-4,     699,     739,     984, 

1237,   1240,   1452 
Literary   history     1452 
Literature     1385,       1412,       1436-40, 

1446 
"Literaturwissenschaft"     1408,     14- 

65-66,   1476 
Locution     1321-43,    1353 
Lope   de   Vega     209,   249,   366,   641- 

42,   1540 
Lorca,  Federico  Garcia       349,  350 
Lorrain,  Jean     575 
Luis  de  Granada     772 
Os    Lusiadas     471 
Lyricism     477,    616,    631,    785,    923, 

1001,  1024-5,  1122,  1506b,  1560b 

Machado,    Manuel     1549 
Machado  de  Assis      377 
Machiavelli,  Niccolo      731-32,  1523b 
Madame     Bovary     164,     194,     564, 

948,  1510 
Magdaleno,  Mauricio     916 
Maison  Tellier     919 
Malherbe     1111 
Mallarme     33,  52,  53,  55,  56,  57,  58, 

59,  60,  61,  62,  63,  64,  167,  245-47, 

309,  321,  322,  446,  447,  852,  1086, 

1106,  1503a,  1513,  1558 
Mannerism     1008 
Manrique,  Jorge     629,  803 
Manzoni     861,   910 
Marco  Polo     508 
Maria       670 

Mariage  de  Figaro       1530d 
Marino     209 
Marivaux     223 
Marmontel,   Fr.     783 
Marnix  de  Ste  Aldegonde     844 
Marot,    Clement     260,   454 
Martin  Fierro     346 
Martinez,  Alfonso     353 
Massuccio     395 
Maupassant,  Guy  de     181,  323,  827, 

919,  1534,  1557 
Mauriac,  Francois       137,  441,  1536 
Maxime     1065 
Mazarin     1027 
Medecin  de  campagne     1532 
Medieval  culture     22 
Meli,    Giovanni     414 
Memoir es   du   Comte   de   Grammont 

316 
Merimee     288,   890 
Metaphor,  see  Imagery 


Index  of  Proper  Names,  Titles,  etc. 


299 


Method     13,  111,  222,  292,  548,  730, 

1220,   1447,  1453,  1593 
Metrics,  see  Versification 
Michelangelo     213,  733 
Michelet     269,   481,   552,   902 
Micromegas     466 
Middle  Ages     1034,   1058,   1073,  11- 

58-72,  1184 
Milagros    de    Nuestra    Senora     358, 

see  Berceo 
Milosz     615 

Mimesis     88,   493,    1149,   see   Imita- 
tion 
Miro,  Gabriel     348,  354,  1519-20 
Mise  en  relief     1348-49,  1590-92 
Les  Miserables     163 
Mistral,  Gabriela     694 
Mithridate     1189 
Mo'ise  Sauve     1530 
Moliere     182,     190,    241,    242,    485, 

516,  517,  1511a 
Monologue    interieur     1068-69 
Montaigne,  Michel  de     146,  261,  460, 

482,  483,  484,  510,  511,   780,  842- 

43 
Montalvo,  Juan     675 
Montemayor       1539b 
Montesquieu     439,    851,    1105 
Moods     945,    1295-98 
Moratin     223 
Moravia,  A.     757 
Morgante     724 
Moschus     1579 
Motif     212,     215,     449,     1073-1146, 

1579 
La  Muse  qui  est  la  Grace       44 
Music     970,  986,  1439-44 
Musset,  A.  de    823,  1136 
Mussolini,  Benito     416-421 
Mystere  poetique     1409 
Mysticism     244,  369,  387,  872,  1006 
Myth     824 
Mythology     784,    834,    1075-1092 

Najera,  Manuel  Gutierre     199 

Napoleon  I.     542 

Narrative  devices  937-43,  1048-9, 
1054, 1162-63,  1563a,  see  also  Tech- 
nique 

National   style     1171 

Naturalism,  see  Realism 

Nature,  see  Description 

Nature  motif     1093-1104 

Neruda,  Pablo     79 

Night     1116-19 

Noche  oscura  del  alma     640 

Novel  1053,  1054,  1121,  1197,  1504, 
1550c,  1569b 

Novelas  ejemplares     650 

Novella     1143 

Numancia     652 


Nunez  de  Arce,  Gaspar      670 

Obermann     895 

Odes  et  ballades     153 

Odysseus,   see   Ulysses 

UOeuvre     569 

O'Henry     181 

Old  Provengal  style      277 

Olivier,  Juste     1487 

Onomatology     1344-1353 

Onomatopee     1285 

Originality     32,  534,  554,  629 

Orlando    Furioso     70,    211,    728-30. 

998 
Orpheus     1083 

Page  oVamour      578 

Painting     927,  1435 

Pandora     1080 

Paradiso     67,   1128 

Paradox     448 

Parallelism    of    the   arts     1426-1447 

Paravicino     219,  668 

Parini     909 

Paris     1101 

Pascal     448,  486,  487,  512-15,   1190, 

1515 
Pascoli,    Giovanni        742,    833,    908 
Passavanti,  Jacono       714 
Passe    defini     1300,    1306-12 
Pastiche       132-39,  1507a,  15C7A 
Pathos     1073 
Paul  et  Virginie     878 
Paulhan,  Jean     138 
Payro     459 

Pedro  de  Ofia     636,  666 
Peguy,  Charles     34,  293,  577-8,  1559 
Perceval     251 
Pereda     900,  934 
Peribanez     867 
Periodare      762,  1568a 
Perrault     328 

Petits  poemes  en  prose     215,  440 
Petrarca     173,  174,  211,  717-19,  11- 

72 
Petrarchism       997,  1505 
Petronius     492,  960,  1327,  1568 
Phedre     229,    464,    465 
Philippe,    Charles-Louis     936 
Philippe  de  Commynes     267 
Philology     19,    86,    489,    707,    1469 
Phonology     980 
Phonostylistique     1406 
Phraseology     1252,  1327-28 
Pianto  antico     73 
Piccolo   Mondo   moderno     745 
Pier  della  Vigna     962 
Pindar     216 

Pirandello,   Luigi     755,   1140-41 
Piropo     1246 
Plautus     242 


300 


Index  of  Proper  Names,  Titles,  etc. 


Pleiade     884 

Pluche     901 

Plurimembracion  777,  1505,  1542, 
see  also  Vers  rapportes 

Poema  del  Cid     621-27,  913,  914 

Poetics  60,  240,  548,  560,  577,  698, 
739,  985,  1176,  1214,  1503a,  1597a 

Poetry  11,  20,  22-3,  53-4,  85,  198, 
201,  217,  406-7,  413,  475,  627, 
638-9,  670,  674,  682,  693,  700-710, 
883,  981-91,  1003,  1012-14,  1035, 
1087,  1120,  1124,  1155-57,  1202, 
1371,  1375,  1394,  1435,  1442,  1443, 
1472,  1488,  1504,  1515a,  1518a, 
1525,  1549,  1567,  1576,  1577 

Polifemo     664 

Poliziano     726 

Polyeucte       1530d 

Portrait,  see  Description 

Precis     1,  108,  110,  see  also  Traite 

Prefix     1350 

Prevost,  Abbe     540 

Priamel     995 

La  Princesse  de  Cleves  527,  528, 
805 

II  Principe     731-2 

Principes    (^'interpretation)      3 

/  Promessi  sposi  71,  462,  736,  784, 
952-3 

Prometheus     1080 

Pronoun     1316 

Prose  35,  36,  87,  127,  275,  390-94, 
402,  478,  479,  589,  617,  675,  727, 
732,  740,  741,  753,  756,  770,  783, 
786,  787,  790,  958-80,  1147-54, 
1177,  1435,  1487,  1544,  1566-69, 
1595a 

Prose  poem     976-8 

Proust,  Marcel  29,  155,  156,  296, 
298,  310,  317,  318,  338,  579-87, 
829,  850,  881,  926-28,  933,  943, 
950,  1103,  1109,  1500a,  1507a 

Proverb     1067 

Psalms     254 

Psychanalysis     1076-9 

Ptyx     64 

Quevedo       203,  356,  357,  659,  797 

Rabelais     268,  814,  841,  1072,   1587 
Racine     229,  238,  239,  299,  311,  314, 

518,   519,   523-26,   817,   969,   1189, 

1514,  1529,  1583a 
Rainouart  1530a 
Ramuz,    C.     F.     438,    457,     604-07, 

929-30 
Raoul  de  Cambrai     499 
Rappel     796 
Raymond  Sebond    261 
Realism     747-750,      903-5,      916-18, 

933,  1154,  1205-16 


La   Regenta     204 

Regnier,  Henri  de     189,  1490 

Renaissance     1029-30,   1032,   1036-7, 

1040,  1089,  1110-15,  1173-76,  1587 
Renard,  Jules     308,  589-90,  1512 
Repetition       992,  1321-22,  1550c 
Reveries    d'un    promeneur    solitaire 

541 
Rhetorics     116,  542,  773,  963,  1026, 

1162-3,  1567 
Rhetoriqueurs     341 
Rhythm     525,     541,    767,    779,     782, 

786,   787,    789,   958-80,   986,   1490, 

1550a,    1571,    see   also   Prose   and 

Cursus 
Richelieu     266,   1027 
/  Ricordi     175 
Riddle     1070 
Rilke,  R.  M.     256 
Rimbaud,     Arthur     340,     437,     572- 

73,  921,  1139,  1502 
Rivera,  J.  Eustasio     1489 
Rococo     1196-99,    1587 
Rod,    Edouard     426 
Rodin     568 
Kojas,  F.  de     1038 
Roland     496,  497,  499 
Rolland,  Romain     339,  596-7 
Romains,    Jules     14,    294,    295,    588 
Roman,  see  Novel 
Roman  de  la  Rose     195 
Romance     17 
Romanceiro     1578 
Romania     1263,    1267-69,   1276-7 
Romanticism     475,      1000,      1012, 

1129-30,  1200-4 
Ronsard,    Pierre     14,    38,    157,    195, 

883,  1110,   1111,  1185,  1498,  1503 
Rotrou     190,  326 
Le  Rouet  d'Omphale     42 
Le  Rouge  et  le  Noir     26 
Rousseau,  J.-J.     183,  891-2,  931 

Sacchetti,   Franco     469 
Saint-Amant     1530 
Saint-Exupery     1537 
Saint-Helier,  Monique      431 
Saint-John   Perse     617-19 
Saint-Simon,  Le  Due  de     270,  932 
Salammbo     801,  824 
Salas  Barbadillo     660 
Sales,  see  Francois  de  Sales,  Saint 
Salinas,    Pedro     686,    1097 
Sand,  George     272,  905 
Sartre,  J.  P.     620 
Scarfolio,  E.     412 
Sceve,   Maurice     319,   1486 
Science  de  la  litterature     1476,   14- 
96,  see  also  Literaturwissenschaft 
Sea     1093-1097 
Secentismo     118,  1183 


Index  of  Proper  Names,  Titles,  etc. 


301 


Semantics     1278-1343 

he  Semeur     43 

Sem  Tob       1520a 

Senancour     895 

Serbo-Croate       1292 

Sevigne,  Mme  de     847 

Shakespeare     1188 

Sin     1128-46 

Slavic     1265 

Sodome  et  Gomorrhe     585 

Soledades     81,  82,  83,  661,  665,  887 

Solitude     1114-15 

Solus     753 

Sonatas     681,  1544,  see  Valle  Inclan 

Sonnet     30,  56,  64,  718,  811 

Sortileges   (du  verbe)      130 

Les  Sosies     190 

Soulier  de  satin     795 

Sprachgeist     1259 

Stanze  per  la  giostra     726 

Stendhal  192,  193,  427-30,  1056, 
1135,   1508 

Sterne,  Lawrence     409 

Stilistica     75,  76 

Structure  23,  66,  498,  507,  550, 
564,  579-80,  582,  626,  677,  697,  710, 
721,  723,  736,  867,  949,  1229-30, 
1236,  1388,  1410,  1465,  1470,  1530c, 
1531,  1533-1533a,  1536-48,  1570 

Style  analysis,  see  Analysis 

evolution     159 

exercise     135 

expression,  see  expression 

evolution     1157 

features     1165 

flight     142 

— forms     1402-5 

foundation     1365 

fullness     278 

function     947,  1391 

genius     593 

history     988,   1147-1216.   13- 

70,  1477 

incarnation     645 

? indirect  libre     1041-47,  1491 

inquiry     703 

interpretation,  see  interpre- 

tation 

investigation     1448-1482 

kind     1389-90 

limits     1386,   1455 

lore     1360 

magic     438,  481 

means     1551 

microscopy     122-124,     1507 

motif     1075-1146 

multiplicity     1384 

observation     26 

parallelism     1426-47 

parody      132-39, 1507,  1507a, 

1507A 


-  periodicals     1480-82 

-  perspectivism     646 

-  phenomenology     1383 

-  phonology     1406 

-  principle     1387 

-  problem  stressed      477,  1362, 

1599b 

-  process   1552 

-  psychology  1399,  1595 

-  questions  357 

-  research  141 

-  resources  114 

-  science  1448,  1454 

-  secret  103 

-  sketch     478-88 

-  structure  see  structure 

-  study     161,     162,    290,    312, 

349,  415,  972,  1410,   1460, 
1512 

-  theory     1354-1482,    especial- 

ly 1358,  1388,  1495,  1597, 
1597a,  1599a 

-  transformation     1587 

-  translation        254-261,    1484, 

1569a 

-  transmission     227 

-  types     1275-20 

-  value       1317,  1550d 
variants     146-175 


Style  and  creation     623 
•  culture     381,  387 

fashion      1378 

form     649-651,  658,  1543 

history     1463 

humor     950 

intuition     1376 

language     120,      267,      589, 

1459 

lexicography      1593a 

personality     1401,   1418 

phonology     1406,   1596 

physiology     1417 

poetry        1399 

psychology     1493 

science         101,     389,     1152, 

1597c 

thought     118,  143,   144,  386 

word     1392 

versification     121,  408 

writing     1361 

Stylistics  105-21,  958,  1238,  1241, 
1252,  1318-20,  1367-69,  1393,  14- 
73-4,  1480,  1494,  1506,  1506a,  1593 

Subjunctive     1302 

Supervielle,  Jules     435 

Swann     579,  580,  582 

Symbol  818-833,  850,  1005,  1086, 
1554,  1557-8,  1572b,  see  also 
Imagery 

Symbolism     139,  473,  474,  573,  744, 


302 


Index  of  Proper  Names,  Titles,  etc. 


788,  999-1000,  1074,  1441,  1490, 

1572b 
Symmetry     786 
Synaesthesia     875-889,  1015 
Syntax     287,  371,  473,  795,  973,  10- 

51,   1221,  1238,   1278,   1281,  1295- 

1320,  1551,  1563a,  1568a 

Tasso,  Bernardo     74 

Tasso,  Torquato  179,  188,  249,  408, 
734,  770',  1178,  1180-81,  1548, 
1548a 

Teaching     7,  see  also  Enseignement 

Technique  113,  125,  247,  491,  589, 
594,  596,  610,  696,  716,  717,  743, 
788,  804,  809,  891,  925,  1060-61, 
1159,  1172,  1377,  1400,  1411,  1413- 
14,  1511a,  1516,  1535,  1538,  1546, 
see  also  Narrative  Devices 

La  tentation  de  St.  Antoine  165, 
191,  see  also  Flaubert 

Teresa  de  Jesus,  Santa  342,  637, 
863,  864,  1598c 

Textes  commentes     2 

Theory  1354-1482,  1415,  1479, 
1597a,  see  also  Style  theory 

Theramene     465 

Therese  Monique       938 

Thesee     467 

Theuriet,  Andre     898 

Thibaudet,  Albert     452 

Thomas  Aquinas       1108 

Thomas  de  Bretagne     231 

Timoneda,    Juan    de     1144 

Tirant  lo  Blanc     628 

Tombari,  Fabio     760 

Tommaseo     739,  740 

Tirso  de  Molina     1118 

Trabajos  de  Persiles  y  Sigismunda 
651 

Tragedy     1372 

Les  Tragiques     1582 

Traite       109,  see  also  Precis 

Tratos  de  Argel     653 

Tristan     253 

Les  Trophees     180 

Troubadours     381 

Typology     1223-24 

Ulysses     1084 

Umgangssprache     1247,    1253,    1274 
Unamuno,  M.  de  798,  868 
Ungaretti      1561a 

Valera,  Juan     672-3 


Valery,    Paul     31,    40,    65,   85,    127, 

198,  257,  312,  314,  315,  598-99,  855, 

1516a 
Valeur     1292-4,  1302 
Valle-Inclan     677-680,     1208,     1544, 

1550 
Variants     145-75,   1534 
El  Vasauro     636 
Velazquez       1598a,  1598d 
Velez  de  Guevara     367,  368 
Verblumter   Ausdruck     1335-36 
Verga     747-49,   912,   1491 
Vergil     170 
Vergleich,  see  Imagery 
Verhaeren     789,  812,  828,  899,  1102 
Verismo,  see  Realism 
Verlaine     876,  923-4 
Verne,  Jules     935 
Vers     rapportes     988-91,     see     also 

Plurimembracion 
Verse,  see  Poetry 
Verse  harmony     1565 
Versification     981-986 
Vico,  Giambattista     396-98 
Victorieusement  fui     56,  57 
Une  Vie     919 

Vieira,   Antonio     1521,    1552 
Viele-Griffin     789,  1490 
Vigny     18,  32,  546-548,  815 
Villano  del  Danubio     632-33 
Villehardouin     807-8 
Villiers  de  l'lsle-Adam     571 
Villon     15,  507 
Vita  Nuova     764 
Vittoria  Accoramboni      1508 
Volkslied     871 
Voltaire     13,     276,     480,     537,     538, 

539,  820,  937,  947,  1202,  1587 
La   Vordgine     248 

Wagner,  Richard     222,  579 
Wegbereiter     576 
Willelme     498 
Wolfflin       1598b 
Wordformation     814 
Wordorder       967,  971,  1287-91 
Wordplay     955-56 
Wortkunst     1155,   1449-51,    1599 

Yerma     350 
Yvain     232-34,  505 

Zola,  Emile       566-570,  922,  1550c 


FA    ■* 


Due  Returned 

T ] 


Date    Due 

Due 


Returned 


I 


MASTER  BOOK  CARD 


I9i 


i        i 


l.':-    -.^.i 


IBRARIES 


PLEASE  ICBEP 
THIS  POCKET  AT  ALL 


i       l 


IT  SHOULD  BE 


^    a  am  JBUOK  IS 
CHARGED  OUT   TO  A 


_l 


\L.J  1 


IN 
TIMES. 

ONLY 

EING 

ER 

i 


Date   Due 


