Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  this  book  is  in 
the  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924095908921 


BOUGHT  WITH  THE  INCOME 
FROM  THE 

SAGE  ENDOWMENT  FUND 

THE  GIFT  OF 

Sienrs  W.  Sage 

1891 


A.l/..:7.//j^...Q'.. J..a/..^^../../..f^...a.2^. 


5474 


Short  Histories  of  the  Literatures 

of  the  World 

Edited  by  Edmund  Gosse 


A  HISTORY  OF 


ARABIC    LITERATURE 


BY 


CLEMENT   HUART 

SECRETARY-INTERPRETER   FOR   ORIENTAL   LANGUAGES  TO 

THE  FRENCH  GOVERNMENT,  AND  PROFESSOR  AT  THE 

fcOLE   DES   LANGUES   ORIENTALES  IN   PARIS 


NEW  YORK 

D.   APPLETON  AND   COMPANY 

1903 

T 


Copyright,  1903 
By  D.  APPLETON  AND   COMPANY 


All  7-ights  reserved 


PuMisJied  September,   1903 


EDITORIAL    PREFACE 


This  volume  has  been  written  at  my  invitation  for  this 
series  of  Short  Histories  of  the  Literatures  of  the 
World,  and  has  been  translated  from  the  author's 
manuscript  by  Lady  Mary  Loyd. 

Professor  Clement  Huart,  who  is  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  and  most  widely  accomplished  of  living 
Orientalists,  was  born  in  1854.  He  is  among  the  many 
eminent  Eastern  scholars  who  have  proceeded  from 
the  Ecole  des  Langues  Orientales  Vivantes,  and  it  is 
his  rare  distinction  to  have  proceeded,  from  the  first,  at 
equal  steps  along  the  investigation  of  Arabic,  Persian, 
Turkish,  and  Romaic  literatures.  He  was  early  at- 
tached to  the  service  of  the  French  Foreign  Office,  and 
exercised  for  several  years  the  functions  of  chancellor 
at  the  French  Consulate  at  Damascus.  He  was  ulti- 
mately called  to  Constantinople,  originally  as  dragoman 
to  the  French  Embassy,  then  as  Consul.  In  i8go  he 
was  sent  to  Asia  Minor  to  make  a  report  on  the  Arabic 
epigraphy  of  that  province,  and  he  has  made  similar 
investigations  in  Syria.  He  was  recalled  to  Paris  to 
fill  the  responsible  office  of  secretary-interpreter  for 
Oriental  languages  to  the  French  Government.  The 
publications  of  Professor  Huart  are  numerous,  and  are 
known  to  all  Eastern  scholars. 


vi  EDITORIAL    PREFACE 

I  have  to  thank  Professor  Huart  for  the  kindness  with 
which  he  has  adapted  his  extraordinary  stores  of  infor- 
mation to  the  scope  of  the  volumes  of  the  present 
series.  As  the  system  of  literation  used  for  the  Arabic 
language  in  France  is  quite  different  from  that  employed 
by  English  scholars,  it  was  necessary  to  transpose 
Professor  Huart's  spelling  of  proper  names,  and  this 
task  has  been  performed  for  me  by  Mr.  Reynold  A. 
Nicholson,  late  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge, 
and  now  Lecturer  in  Persian  to  that  University. 

EDMUND  GOSSE. 


January   1903. 


CONTENTS 

CHAP.  PAGE 

I.  THE     CLIMATE    AND     THE     RACE  —  ORIGINS    OF 

ARABIC  POETRY— ITS  PRIMITIVE  FORMS         .        .  I 

II.   PRE-ISLAMIC  POETRY lo 

III.  THE  KORAN 33 

IV.  THE  OMEYYAD  DYNASTY 46 

V.  THE  'ABBASIDS 63 

VI.  THE  'ABBASIDS  [continued) 137 

VH.  THE  'ABBASIDS  [continued] 174 

VIII.  THE  'ABBASIDS  [continued] 216 

IX.  THE  'ABBASIDS  [contimied] 2S0 

X.  ARABIC  LITERATURE  FROM  THE  CAPTURE  OF 
BAGDAD  DOWN  TO  THE  END  OF  THE  EIGHT- 
EENTH CENTURY 323 

XI.   THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 411 

XII.  THE  PERIODICAL  PRESS 437 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 447 

INDEX 4SI 


A    HISTORY    OF 

ARABIC    LITERATURE 

CHAPTER   I 

THE   CLIMATE   AND    THE    RACE— ORIGINS   OF 
ARABIC   POETRY— ITS    PRIMITIVE    FORMS 

Range  after  range  of  grey  serrated  mountain  peaks ; 
southward,  again,  huge  plains,  stretching  to  endless 
horizons,  and  strewn  with  blackish  pebbles  ;  and,  last  of 
all,  the  sandy  Desert,  tinged  with  red,  its  rolling  drifts 
blown  hither  and  thither  by  the  winds,  to  the  unceasing 
terror  of  the  traveller:  such  are  the  regions  which  part 
ArJtbia  from  the  rest  of  the  earth,  and  which  made  it  for 
so  long  a  time  a  land  of  mystery.  On  every  other  side, 
the  sea.  The  Red  Sea,  with  its  depths  peopled  with 
myriad  madrepores,  its  dangerous  reefs  just  hidden  be- 
neath the  surface  of  the  waters.  The  Indian  Ocean,  with 
its  periodical  monsoons,  and  its  wild  hurricanes  raging 
over  the  open.  The  Persian  Gulf,  whose  wavelets  die 
on  the  alluvia  of  two  great  historic  rivers — Euphrates 
and  Tigris.  In  the  centre  of  the  Peninsula,  tall,  bare 
mountains  rise  once  more.  About  their  feet,  where  water 
springs  are  found,  stand  towns,  with  palm  groves  clus- 


2  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

taring  round  them.  On  the  sea  coast  are  many  ports, 
where  ships  embark  the  produce  of  the  country — dates, 
coffee,  gums,  and  balsams,  while  some  small  quantities 
of  European  exports  are  landed  in  exchange. 

From  time  immemorial,  the  nomad  Arabs,  owners  of 
great  flocks  and  herds,  have  wandered  to  and  fro  upon 
this  territory,  moving  their  camps  of  black  camel's  hair- 
cloth tents  whithersoever  the  grass  grows  or  a  tiny  rill 
of  water  tinkles ;  journeying  from  one  point  to  another 
on  single-humped  camels — the  only  steed  the  nature  of 
the  country  will  permit — in  endless  caravans,  which 
sometimes  become  warlike  expeditions. 

What  is  this  nation,  which  at  one  moment  of  its 
history  leapt  up  before  the  world  in  sudden  and  amazing 
fortune,  overthrowing  the  great  Persian  Empire  of  the 
Sasanians,  and  defeating  the  Roman  Legions  of  the 
Lower  Empire?  One  burst  of  enthusiasm — it  was  but 
a  flash — sent  forth  these  men  (who  had  done  naught, 
hitherto,  but  quarrel  over  a  good  camping-ground,  or 
fight  to  avenge  some  wrong)  to  conquer  the  whole 
world.  But  the  Bedouin  fell  back  ere  long  into  his 
primitive  way  of  life.  Lovingly  has  he  clung  to  the 
native  ignorance,  which  he  never  would  cast  off.  As 
for  the  town-bred  Arab,  intercourse  with  Syrian  and 
Chaldean  merchants,  before  the  days  of  Islam,  and  with 
the  pilgrims  who  have  gathered  to  venerate  the  Sacred 
Temple  of  Mecca,  the  Ka'ba  and  its  Black  Stone,  ever 
since  the  times  of  Mahomet  the  Prophet,  has  done 
something,  it  may  be— but  little  enough — towards  his 
civilisation,  and  those  vices  which  are  the  virtues  of  the 
primitive  man — cunning,  greed,  suspicion,  cruelty- 
reign  unchecked,  even  to  this  day,  in  the  hearts  of  the 
dwellers  in  these  inaccessible  towns. 


THE    CLIMATE   AND   THE   RACE  3 

The  Arab  of  the  Desert  is  a  man  of  courage,  at  all 
events.  His  adventurous  mode  of  life  makes  bravery 
indispensable.  A  perpetual  traveller,  he  wanders  to  and 
fro  seeking  the  necessary  water-supply  for  his  encamp- 
ment, and  the  scanty  herbage  without  which  his  flocks 
cannot  exist.  For  a  lengthened  period  his  camel  was 
his  only  steed.  This  animal  is  the  only  one  mentioned 
in  the  Bible  and  the  ancient  classics.  The  introduction 
of  the  horse— we  know  not  the  exact  period — provided 
fresh  food  for  his  moral  qualities.  The  Arab  became 
an  excellent  horseman  ;  and,  from  the  fourth  century 
of  our  era,  Saracen  cavalry  makes  its  appearance.  The 
Thamudites,  an  Arab  tribe,  numbered  fighting  men 
who  brandished  lances,  and  rode  that  pachyderm  whose 
conquest  was  held  by  Buffon  to  be  a  noble  thing.  Often 
two  warriors  bestrode  the  same  dromedary,  as  in  those 
squadrons  which  General  Bonaparte  sent  out  to  scout 
the  Desert.  When  the  scene  of  combat  was  reached, 
one  rider  would  descend,  and  mount  the  charger  he  had 
led,  barebacked,  to  the  spot.  Dressed  in  the  coat  of 
mail  borrowed  from  the  Persians,  helmet  on  head,  and 
waving  the  long  bamboo  lance  which  ships  had  brought 
up  the  Persian  Gulf  from  India  to  Al-Khatt,  these  horse- 
men charged  and  then  fled,  ready  to  charge  down  again 
upon  the  enemy  who  should  advance  in  their  pursuit. 
This  was  war :  but  the  Bedouin  was  a  robber  too,  a 
bandit,  a  brigand.  The  Gliazw — the  Razzia,  as  the 
French  say,  borrowing  an  Algerian  expression — is,  in- 
deed, a  primitive  form  of  the  struggle  for  existence,  but, 
to  us  civilised  folk,  it  is  an  act  of  brigandage — flocks 
and  herds  driven  off,  women  and  children  carried  away 
into  slavery,  and  now  and  again  a  general  massacre. 
The  poetry  of  these  same  brigands  is  by  no  means  the 


4  ARABIC   LITERATURE 

least  charming  among  that  which  has  come  down  to  us 
from  the  old  days. 

Whence  did  this  people  spring?  By  language  and 
ethnological  conformation,  it  certainly  belongs  to  the 
great  Semite  group,  which  is  scattered  over  the  whole 
of  hither  Asia.  The  Peninsula  may  possibly  have  been 
populated  by  a  migration  of  tribes  from  the  lower 
Babylonian  plains.  Yet  its  traditions  betray  some  cross 
breeding  with  African  races.  At  a  very  early  period 
the  slave-trade  had  carried  negroes  to  Arabian  soil.  It 
is  a  curious  fact  that  the  Arabs  themselves  ascribe  pure 
Arab  blood  to  the  Yemen  populations,  whom  we  know 
to  be  allied  by  race  and  dialfct  with  the  Ethiopians ; 
and  accept  as  a  more  recent  source  of  their  own 
nationality,  a  Semite  emigration,  led  by  Ishmael,  son  of 
Abraham  and  Hagar,  or  the  issue  of  his  marriage  with 
a  daughter  of  Yemen.  Be  that  as  it  may,  it  was  the 
struggle  between  the  descendants  of  Qahtan,  King  of 
Sheba,  and  the  children  of  'Adnan,  of  the  house  of  Ish- 
mael, and  the  wars  of  the  tribes  connected  with  them, 
whose  migrations  led  them  hither  and  thither  across 
the  mountains  and  over  the  wide  sand  wastes,  which 
evoked  the  poetic  genius  of  Arabia. 

The  long  caravan-marches  across  the  monotonous 
deserts,  when  the  camel's  steady  swing  bends  the  rider's 
body  almost  double,  turning  the  unaccustomed  traveller 
sick  and  giddy,  soon  taught  the  Arab  to  sing  rhymes. 
He  even  noted,  very  soon,  that  as  he  hurried  the 
pace  of  his  recitation  the  long  string  of  camels  would 
raise  their  heads  and  step  out  with  quickened  pace. 
This  creature,  stupid  and  vindictive  though  it  be,  is 
sensitive,  to  some  extent,  to  music,  or,  at  all  events,  to 
rhythm.      Its  four  heavy  steps  gave  the  metre,  and  the 


ORIGINS    OF   ARABIC   POETRY  5 

alternations  of  long  and  short  syllables  in  the  spoken 
language  the  successive  pulsations  of  the  said  metre. 
This  was  the  hidd,  the  song  of  the  leading  camel-driver 
of  the  caravan.  And  here  we  have  the  origin  of  the 
prosodic  metre,  unconsciously  invented  by  the  native 
genius  of  the  Bedouin,  springing  from  the  necessities 
of  the  life  in  which  his  monotonous  existence  dragged 
itself  out,  for  which  the  theorists  of  a  later  date  for- 
mulated laws.  We  know  that  the  idea  of  Khalil's 
prosody  came  to  him  from  hearing  the  hammers  of 
the  workmen  in  the  bazaars  ringing  on  their  anvils 
with  alternate  cadenced  strokes.  Until  the  wise  gram- 
marian made  this  fruitful  discovery,  the  Arabs  had 
produced  poetry  with  no  knowledge  of  its  rules,  beyond 
their  own  innate  feeling  for  poetic  rhythm. 

Here,  then,  we  see  the  Arab  singing  his  way  along 
his  lengthy  journeys,  and  weaving  poems  which  cele- 
brated a  few  restricted  subjects — the  image  of  the 
best  beloved,  the  remnants  of  a  forsaken  camp,  or  the 
struggles  of  some  bloody  feud.  Not  that  his  memories 
of  the  frays  in  which  he  had  fought,  the  pillaged  cara- 
vans, the  quarrels  over  a  spring  of  water,  the  contentions 
about  stolen  camels,  had  ever  stirred  an  epic  feeling  in 
him.  That  wondrous  appanage  of  the  Indo-European 
races,  their  power  of  translating  historic  or  legendar}' 
events  into  mighty  poems,  teeming  with  grandiose  pic- 
tures, whose  superhuman  heroes  are  types  of  an  ideal 
for  ever  sought  and  never  realised,  has  no  existence  in 
the  brain  of  the  peoples  speaking  the  Semitic  tongues. 
The  breath  comes  shorter,  but  it  is  none  the  less  mighty 
for  that ;  and  though  its  expression  of  thought  may  be 
concise,  its  effect  on  the  human  mind  has  been  con- 
siderable, since  from  this  inspiration  have  sprung  the 


6  ARABIC   LITERATURE 

religious  prose-poems  which  had  their  birth  in  Jerusalem 
and  Mecca. 

It  was  from  the  Desert,  then,  that  Arab  poetry  was  to 
come  ;  for  the  towns  were  too  much  preoccupied  with 
commercial  matters  to  give  literature  any  chance  of 
growth.  Southwards,  the  Himyarite  populations,  living 
on  those  trade  routes  which,  from  the  most  ancient 
times,  had  connected  Egypt  with  India  by  the  sea  high- 
way, had  founded  cities  which  grouped  themselves  into 
States — amongst  them  that  of  Sheba,  whose  legendary 
Queen  figures  amongst  the  great  folk  who  journeyed  to 
salute  the  glory  of  the  children  of  Israel,  the  son  of 
mighty  David,  the  wise  King  Solomon,  and  the  existence 
of  which,  in  the  first  centuries  of  the  Christian  era,  is 
proved  by  monuments  now  in  ruins,  in  Yemen  and 
Hadramaut,  and  by  inscriptions  in  Himyaric  characters, 
surveyed  by  J.  Halevy  and  Glaser.  Northwards,  Syrian 
civilisation  had  early  reached  the  Arabian  oases,  and 
brought  Syrian  gods  with  it,  as  at  Taima.  On  the 
frontiers  of  the  Roman  Empire,  and  on  those  of  the 
Persian  Empire  of  the  Arsacids  and  Saslnians,  little 
States  had  grown  up — the  princes  of  Ghassan,  to  the 
west  of  the  Syrian  desert,  the  princes  of  Hira,  not  far 
from  the  Euphrates,  ruled  small  kingdoms,  centres  of 
civilisation  which  shed  their  brightness  farther  than  one 
would  have  thought.  At  Hira,  notably,  where  a  mixed 
population  drawn  from  divers  countries  had  settled,  the 
'Ibads,  former  slaves,  who  had  been  freed,  and  remained 
clients  of  the  reigning  tribes,  practised  mercantile  pur- 
suits, and  travelled  about  Arabia,  whither  they  carried 
the  wines  grown  on  the  banks  of  the  great  river  and 
ripened  in  their  own  cellars.  These  Tbads  were  Chris- 
tians, and  we  shall  shortly  see  that  it  was  these  wine 


ITS    PRIMITIVE   FORMS  7 

merchants  who,  when  they  sold  the  Bedouins  the 
enchanting  beverage  their  own  oases  did  not  supply, 
brought  in  ideas  of  Christianity  as  well,  and  made 
proselytes  such  as  would  hardly  have  been  expected, 
seeing  the  nature  of  the  gospel  they  set  out  to  preach. 

The  most  ancient  remnants  of  this  primitive  Arab 
poetry  are  fragments  of  poems  relating  to  the  Hijd — 
satire — to  which  a  superstitious  feeling  was  attached, 
and  a  magic  power  ascribed.  The  poet — properly  speak- 
ing, the  sage,  Skd'ir,  a  sort  of  soothsayer — was  called  on 
to  compose  these  satires,  which  passed  from  lip  to  lip 
amongst  tribes  of  a  common  origin,  and  were  swiftly 
answered  by  other  satires,  sprung  from  the  brain  of  the 
poet  of  the  tribal  adversaries. 

Nothing  now  remains  of  the  songs  improvised — ac- 
cording to  a  former  Prefect  of  Constantinople,  St.  Nilus, 
who  turned  hermit  about  a.d.  400 — by  the  Sinai  Arabs, 
when  they  reached  a  spring  after  a  long  journey. 
Sozomen,  a  Greek  author,  who  wrote  an  ecclesiastical 
history  in  the  fifth  century,  reports  that  in  A.D.  372 
Mania  or  Mavia,  Queen  of  the  Saracens,  defeated  the 
Roman  troops  in  Palestine  and  Phoenicia,  and  that  the 
memory  of  this  victory  was  preserved  by  the  Arabs  in 
their  popular  songs.  Human  remembrance,  unless  set 
down  on  brick,  or  stone,  or  paper,  is  a  very  short- 
lived thing,  and  the  memory  of  bygone  days  soon  fades 
away.  We  must  not  wonder,  then,  that  the  most  ancient 
of  the  Arab  poems  only  go  back  to  the  sixth  century  of 
our  era,  when  Nabatean  travellers  brought  the  Estrangelo 
alphabet  from  Syria,  and  applied  it  to  the  Arab  tongue 
— an  attempt  of  this  kind  may  be  noted  in  the  bilingual 
inscription  of  Harran. 

It  was    to    the  Jinns,  the   mischievous   rather   than 


8  ARABIC   LITERATURE 

wicked  spirits  which  inhabit  solitary  places,  that  the 
ancient  poet  ascribed  his  inspiration  ;  and  the  Jinn 
breathed  into  him  the  idea  of  bantering  the  tribal 
enemy,  always  with  the  underlying  thought  that  the 
biting  satire,  repeated  in  the  various  camps,  might  work 
the  foe  some  harm,  might  cast  a  spell  upon  him,  as  our 
own  magicians  of  the  Middle  Ages  used  to  say.  The  poet 
was  the  wise  man,  the  learned  in  magic  processes,  the 
tribal  oracle,  inspired  by  the  Jinn.  It  was  at  the 
order  of  the  old  poet  Zuhair  ibn  Janab  that  the  en- 
campment was  moved,  or  set  up,  at  whatever  time  and 
place  he  deemed  best.  On  his  advice  wars  were  made, 
and  when  the  booty  was  divided  he  was  given  his  share, 
the  portion  of  the  bravest.  Satire  was  his  weapon, 
wounding,  tormenting,  like  the  sharpest  blade,  driving 
the  peoples  to  fall  upon  each  other.  But  at  the  same 
time  it  was  an  incantation,  threatening  the  foe,  seeking 
to  harm  him  by  stirring  up  the  malevolent  deities  of  the 
Desert,  cursing  him,  dooming  him  to  ruin  and  destruc- 
tion, by  the  use  of  the  fetish  word  known  to  the  sage, 
the  shd'ir,  and  to  him  alone.  Unfortunately  no  text  of 
any  of  these  satires  has  come  down  to  us.  But  we  can 
easily  imagine  the  subjects  on  which  they  turn,  by  a 
reference  to  Balaam's  famous  curse. 

The  Hijd  had  special  rites  connected  with  it,  such 
as  the  anointing  of  the  hair  on  one  side  of  the  head,  and 
the  wearing  of  one  sandal  only,  and  the  trailing  of  the 
mantle  on  the  ground.  The  formulas  were  first  of  all 
pronounced  in  rhymed  prose,  .r^"'  ,•  this  was  replaced  by 
the  metre  called  rajaz,  a  sort  of  very  simple  chant,  two 
long  syllables,  followed  by  a  short,  and  then  another 
long  :  from  that  time  Arab  poetry  had  an  actual  exist- 
ence, although  this,  according  to  native  feeling,  is  not  a 


ITS    PRIMITIVE   FORMS  9 

true  prosodic  metre.  But  the  Arabs  have  at  all  events 
preserved  its  memory  as  being  their  primitive  metre, 
from  which  all  the  rest  have  proceeded — all,  at  least, 
used  by  the  Desert  poets.  For,  as  time  went  on,  town 
life,  and  the  influence,  of  music  and  the  dance,  led  to  the 
invention  of  other  rhythms. 


CHAPTER  II 

PRE-ISLAMIC  POETRY 

The  most  ancient  pre-Islamic  poems  are  those  forming 
the  collection  of  the  seven  muallaqdt — literally  "  the 
suspended,"  a  name  given  them  at  a  much  later  date  by 
Hammad-al-Rawiya,  and  on  which  is  founded  the  abso- 
lutely untrue  legend  that  these  pieces,  written  with  golden 
ink,  were  hung  up  in  the  famous  Temple  at  Mecca,  in 
the  Ka'ba.  The  name  was  merely  intended  as  an  allu- 
sion to  the  place  of  honour  they  hold  on  the  Arabian 
Parnassus,  even  as  a  chandelier  may  be  suspended  in  the 
midst  of  an  apartment,  or  rather  as  a  necklace  may  be 
worn  hanging  about  the  neck — for  they  were  also  called 
al-SuniAt,  "  the  necklaces  of  pearls."  The  poets  whose 
masterpieces  have  received  the  honour  of  being  thus 
grouped  together  are  Imru'u'1-Qais,  Tarafa,  Zuhair, 
Labid,  'Amr  ibn  Kulthiim,  'Antara,  and  Al-Harith  ibn 
Hilliza  (according  to  some,  the  two  last  poets  are  Na- 
bigha  and  A'sha).  At  this  epoch,  the  qastda  had  already 
reached  its  definite  form.  According  to  the  ancient  rules 
quoted  by  Ibn  Qutaiba,  the  author  of  a  qasida  must 
begin  by  a  reference  to  the  forsaken  camping-grounds. 
Next  he  must  lament,  and  pray  his  comrades  to  halt, 
while  he  calls  up  the  memory  of  the  dwellers  who  had 
departed  in  search  of  other  encampments  and  fresh 
water-springs.    Then  he  begins  to  touch  on  love-matters, 


PRE-ISLAMIC  POETRY  n 

bewailing  the  tortures  to  which  his  passion  puts  him, 
and  thus  attracting  interest  and  attention  to  himself.  He 
recounts  his  hard  and  toilsome  journeying  in  the  Desert, 
dwells  on  the  lean  condition  of  his  steed,  which  he  lauds 
and  describes ;  and  finally,  with  the  object  of  obtaining 
those  proofs  of  generosity  which  were  the  bard's  expected 
meed  and  sole  support,  he  winds  up  with  a  panegyric 
of  the  Prince  or  Governor  in  whose  presence  the  poem 
is  recited. 

This  last  rule  is,  of  course,  not  applicable  in  the  case 
of  the  poet  whose  works  are  believed  to  be  the  most 
ancient  of  the  Seven,  and  whom  fate  had  placed 
from  birth  upon  a  throne.  Imru'u'l-Qais  Hunduj,  the 
wandering  king,  came  of  a  southern  race,  the  Kinda. 
His  ancestors  had  built  up  a  principality  in  Najd. 
His  father,  Hujr,  a  severe  man,  desiring  to  punish  his 
son  for  the  amorous  passion  which  possessed  him,  sent 
him  away  to  act  as  shepherd  to  his  flocks.  Hujr  lost 
his  life  in  the  revolt  of  the  Beni-Asad,  and  the  poet 
began  a  career  of  adventure,  living  the  life  of  a  de- 
throned king,  seeking  means  to  re-establish  his  father's 
power,  which  he  never  recovered.  He  took  refuge  at 
last  with  Samuel,  Prince  of  Taima,  who  owned  the 
Castle  of  Ablaq,  and  professed  the  Jewish  faith.  To- 
wards the  year  530,  the  Roman  Emperor  Justinian,  who 
had  thought  of  utilising  his  services  against  the  Persians, 
then  threatening  his  frontiers,  granted  Imru'u'l-Qais  leave, 
at  the  request  of  the  Prince  of  Ghass^n,  who  held 
the  Syrian  frontier  for  the  Romans,  to  wait  on  him.  He 
journeyed  by  post  (horse-post  and  camel-post)  to  Con- 
stantinople, and  sojourned  there  a  long  time,  expecting 
a  place,  which  was  slow  in  coming,  from  the  Emperor, 
already  an  aging  man.     He  was  appointed  Phylarch  of 


12  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Palestine,  and  was  making  his  way  back  to  the  Desert, 
when  he  died  at  Ancyra,  poisoned  by  the  Emperor's 
order,  and,  as  the  legend  runs,  by  a  garment  of  honour 
— a  robe  of  Nessus  which  covered  his  body  with  ulcers, 
as  punishment  for  the  seduction  of  a  royal  lady.  Ma- 
homet held  him  to  be  the  best  of  all  the  poets,  and  their 
chief;  and  according  to  tradition,  he  was  the  first  to 
make  fixed  rules  for  poetic  composition.  When  the 
messengers  came  to  tell  him  of  his  father's  death,  he 
was  drinking  wine  and  throwing  the  dice.  He  went  on 
with  his  game,  and  not  till  it  was  finished  did  he  cry  :  "  I 
will  touch  neither  wine  nor  woman  till  I  have  slain  a 
hundred  men  of  the  Beni-Asad,  and  shorn  the  forelocks, 
as  a  trophy,  from  the  heads  of  another  hundred  !  "  He 
was  a  bold  spirit,  and  did  not  hesitate  to  cast  the  three 
arrows  of  fate  at  the  idol  called  Dhu'l-Khalasa,  in  the 
town  of  Tabaia,  because  destiny  forbade  him  to  pursue 
his  vengeance  for  his  father's  death. 

With  the  poet-king  we  must  mention,  as  a  creator  of 
the  qastda,  Muhalhil,  whose  surname  has  generally  been 
translated  "  the  subtle  poet,"  but  it  seems  more  probably 
to  have  been  a  nickname  given  him  on  account  of  his 
having  used  the  expression  halhaltu,  in  one  of  his  lines, 
to  denote  "  I  made  an  echo."  Only  a  very  small  number 
of  his  verses  are  extant. 

Nabigha  DhubyanI,  who  belonged  to  a  tribe  from 
the  neighbourhood  of  Mecca,  was  a  town-dweller.  We 
find  him  at  Hira — a  half-Persian,  half-Arab  city — during 
the  reigns  of  the  Kings  Al-Mundhir  III.  and  Al-Mundhir 
IV.  This  town  became  a  literary  centre  whence  poetry 
radiated  all  over  the  Peninsula.  The  successor  of  the 
last-named  King,  Numan  Ab{i  QabCis,  grew  angry  with 
the  poet,  who  had  used  too  great  freedom  in  some  lines 


PRE-ISLAMIC  POETRY  13 

written  to  flatter  the  Queen.  The  exile  departed  to 
Damascus,  to  princes  who  were  the  rivals  of  the  rulers 
of  Hira,  and  clients  of  the  Court  of  Constantinople,  the 
Ghassanids.  He  was  right  well  received  by  'Amr  ibn 
Harith,  but,  after  that  prince's  death,  he  returned  to 
Hira  and  was  taken  back  into  favour.-  When  his  patron 
died,  he  withdrew  from  the  court  of  the  usurper  imposed 
on  the  State  by  the  conquering  Persians,  returned 
to  his  own  tribe,  and  there  died,  very  shortly  before 
Mahomet's  preaching  set  Arabia  aflame.  Nabigha  was 
a  courtier-poet.  He  boasted  that  he  kept  his  composi- 
tions for  princes,  but  he  made  superb  use  of  the  liberal 
gifts  his  flatteries  won  him.  He  was  at  every  feast,  but 
he  spent  his  money  royally. 

In  contrast,  we  have  a  true  Desert  poet,  'Antara,' 
son  of  Shaddad,  whose  name  was  later  to  serve  the 
popular  story-tellers  of  the  Romance  of  'Antar  as  the 
incarnate  type  of  the  virtues  ascribed  to  the  wandering 
paladins  of  the  heathen  tribes.  The  hero  of  the  tribe  of 
'Abs  was  a  mulatto,  the  son  of  an  Abyssinian  slave,  and 
his  lower  lip  was  split.  His  personal  bravery  won  him 
reputation  as  a  warrior,  and  advanced  him  from  his 
state  of  slavery  to  the  position  of  Shaddad's  acknow- 
ledged son.  He  took  part  in  the  terrible  war  arising  out 
of  the  rivalry  between  the  stallion  Dahis  and  the  mare 
Ghabra.  Treachery  alone  prevented  the  famous  courser 
from  winning  the  race,  and  in  his  vengeance,  Qais,  chief 
of  the  tribe  of  'Abs,  waged  bitter  war  against  his  enemies. 
'Antara  was  the  rhapsodist  of  these  long  fights.  He  sang 
the  battle  of  AI-Farijq,  at  which  the  prowess  of  the 
Absites  saved  their  women  from  slavery.  He  had  sworn 
he  would  never  leave  his  enemy  in  peace  "as  long  as  they 
waved  a  lance."    'Antara  perished  while  fighting  against 


14  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

the  tribe  of  Tai.  He  had  grown  old,  and  his  youthful 
activity  had  forsaken  him.  He  is  said  to  have  fallen 
from  his  horse,  and  to  have  been  unable  to  regain  his 
feet  in  time.  His  death  was  the  signal  for  peace,  and 
the  end  of  the  long-drawn  hostilities.  In  spite  of  the 
tribe's  desire  to  avenge  its  hero  and  its  bard,  a  com- 
pensation of  a  hundred  camels  was  accepted  for  the 
murder  of  one  of  its  scions,  and  the  poets  celebrated 
the  close  of  the  long  struggle.  'Antara  sang  the  praises 
of  'Abla,  his  mistress,  but  a  good  fight  was  always  the 
favourite  subject  of  his  lay.  He  it  was  who  said,  "We 
whirled  as  the  millstone  whirls  on  its  axis,  while  our 
swords  smashed  upon  the  fighters'  skulls." 

Another  court-poet  was  Tarafa,  whose  name  was 
'Amr  ibn  al- Abd.  He  formed  one  of  the  circle  about  a 
king  of  Hira, 'Amr,  the  son  of  Hind.  His  uncle,  Mutal- 
ammis,  was  called  Jarir,  the  son  of  'Abdal-Masih  (or, 
according  to  Ibn  Qutaiba,  of  'Abdal-Uzza).  He  was 
surnamed  Mutalammis,  "he  who  seeks  earnestly,"  be- 
cause he  had  spoken,  in  a  celebrated  line,  of  the  blue  fly 
that  pries  everywhere.  His  sister  Khirniq  was  also  a 
writer  of  verse.  Tarafa,  who  was  of  a  thoughtless  and 
ungrateful  turn,  made  game  of  his  uncle,  who  had  used 
an  improper  expression  in  one  of  his  lines.  "Thy 
tongue  will  be  thy  ruin,"  quoth  the  uncle.  The  nephew 
ventured  to  make  game  of  the  king  himself,  who,  to  get 
rid  of  him,  bethought  him  of  sending  him  with  his  uncle 
Mutalammis  on  a  mission  to  the  Governor  of  Bahrain. 
The  uncle  opened  his  own  letter  of  credentials,  and  dis- 
covered that  the  king  therein  commanded  the  governor 
to  put  him  to  death.  Thinking  his  nephew's  letter 
contained  the  same  order,  he  counselled  him  to  open  it. 
But  Tarafa  would  not  break  the  king's  seal.    The  uncle 


PRE-ISLAMIC  POETRY  15 

took  fright,  and  fled  into  Syria.  Tarafa  continued  his 
journey,  and  was  buried  alive  as  soon  as  he  reached 
Bahrain.  It  is  curious  to  note  that  his  poetry  gives 
more  proof  of  judgment  than  did  his  behaviour.  He  is 
almost  the  only  one  of  the  ancient  poets  in  whose  work 
we  find  some  signs  of  meditation,  maxims,  or  apoph- 
thegms.'  All  his  fellows  are  carried  away  by  the 
exuberance  of  their  own  eager  but  childish  nature. 

ZUHAIR  ibn  Abi  Sulma,  of  the  tribe  of  Muzaina,  is, 
with  Imru'u'1-Qais  and  Nabigha  Dhubyini,  one  of  the 
three  great  poets  of  the  Arab  tribes.  It  is  hard  to  say 
which  is  to  be  preferred,  but  all  critics  agree  in  placing 
them  far  above  the  rest.  Zuhair  came  of  a  family 
possessing  the  poetic  gift.  His  father-in-law,  Aus  ibn 
Hajar,  his  sisters  Sulmi  and  Al-KhansS,  and  his  son, 
Ka'b,  the  panegyrist  of  Mahomet,  all  made  themselves 
reputations.  He  had  the  moralist's  temperament ;  his 
verses  were  marked  by  seriousness,  by  a  sententious  and 
didactic  tendency.  He  cared  little,  for  praise,  which 
does  not  ensure  immortality,  and  especially  he  shunned 
untruthful  praise.  He  would  not  borrow  lines  from 
other  poets  to  insert  them  amongst  his  own,  or  use 
words  difficult  to  understands  Such  is  the  opinion 
expressed  concerning  him  by  the  Caliph  'Umar,  who 
specially  admired  Zuhair's  careful  avoidance  of  any- 
thing "hushi,"  that  is  to  say,  unintelligible,  in  his  lan- 
guage. There  is  a  story — but  probably  a  mere  legend, 
like  so  many  handed  down  from  those  ancient  times — 
that  when  Zuhair  was  a  hundred  years  old,  he  met  the 
prophet  Mahomet,  who  prayed  God  to  protect  him  from 
the  jinn  that  inspired  his  poetic  effusions.  The  poet, 
who  was  a  warrior,  suddenly  forsook  his  tribe,  in  conse- 
quence of  some  injustice  done  him  in  a  division  of  booty, 


i6  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

took  refuge  with  the  tribe  of  Ghatafan,  and  there  remained. 
He  sang  the  peaceful  outcome  of  the  long  war  of  Dahis. 
Harim,  his  patron,  had  vowed  to  give  him  gifts  on  every 
occasion,  whether  he  sang  his  praises,  or  sought  a  favour, 
or  even  made  him  a  sign  of  salutation.  Zuhair,  ashamed 
of  receiving  slaves  or  horses  in  this  fashion,  made  it  a 
rule,  when  he  met  Harim  in  any  gathering,  to  greet 
every  one  save  him.  '  These  are  scruples  peculiar  to  thq 
Desert,  manners  of  a  certain  noble  harshness.  In  later 
years  Harim's  descendants  were  to  say,  "The  praise  is 
noble  indeed,  but  so  also  were  our  gifts  ! "  And  the 
answer  was  to  come,  "  Your  gifts  have  vanished,  but  his 
poems  live  on.  They  are  robes  of  honour  which  Time 
cannot  decay." 

His  reputation  was  that  of  a  high-born  and  wealthy 
man,  of  gentle  manners,  and  remarkable  for  his  scru- 
pulous piety.  His  verses  are  preferred  because  they 
show  superior  beauty,  and  the  least  exiguity  in  thought ; 
they  convey  the  largest  number  of  ideas  in  the  fewest 
words,  their  expressions  of  praise  are  the  most, excessive, 
and  they  contain  the  largest  number  of  proverbs.  To 
Al-Khansa  fell  the  melancholy  duty  of  pronouncing  the 
funeral  oration  over  her  brother. 

'Alqama  ibn  'Abada,  surnamed  Al-Fahl,  was  of  the 
race  of  Tamim.  He  addressed  a  poem  to  Al-Harith 
ibn  Jabala,  Prince  of  Ghassan,  in  gratitude  for  his 
release  of  some  prisoners,  the  poet's  compatriots.  The 
story  of  his  rivalry  with  Imru'n'1-Qais  is  a  mere 
legend.  His  comparison  of  the  camel-mare  which  was 
bearing  him  across  the  desert  with  a  fleeing  ostrich,  is 
famous.  He  describes  the  huge,  long-legged  bird  leav- 
ing its  nest  to  search  for  food,  feeding  quietly  on  the 
bitter  seeds  borne  by  the  bashes  growing  in  the  sands. 


PRE-ISLAMIC    POETRY  17 

and  then,  as  it  remembers  its  forsaken  eggs,  setting  off 
running  on  its  long,  bare,  black  shanks.  Elsewhere  he 
gives  a  striking  picture  of  the  whitened  skeletons  of 
the  camels  dead  of  weariness  upon  the  sands,  the  skin, 
dried  and  shrivelled  by  the  sun,  all  blackened,  and  still 
chnging,  here  and  there,  to  the  pale  bones. 

The  Muallaqat  are  not  the  only  ancient  poems  pre- 
served to  us.  There  are  also  the  Diwdns  (collections 
of  poems  arranged  according  to  the  alphabetical  order 
of  the  rhyme)  of  the  six  poets,  brought  together  by 
the  grammarian  Al-Asmai,  preserved  in  a  revised  form 
—  which  we  owe  to  the  learned  Spanish  Arab,  Yusuf 
al-Aiam  of  Santa  Maria,  who  lived  in  the  eleventh 
century — and  published  by  Ahlwardt ;  the  poems  known 
as  Mufaddaliyydt,  so  called  after  Al-Mufaddal  al-Dabbi, 
who  collected  them  into  one  volume  for  his  pupil, 
Prince  Al-Mahdi,  in  the  eighth  century — a  beginning 
of  the  publication  of  these  was  made  by  Thorbecke ,; 
the  Jamharat  AsJi&r  al- Arab  (collection  of  Bedouin 
poetry),  compiled  under  a  fictitious  name,  but  quoted 
as  early  as  the  eleventh  century,  by  Ibn  Rashiq,  and 
printed  at  Bulaq ;  the  Hanidsa,  or  collection  of  war- 
like deeds,  of  Abii  Tammam,  published  by  Freytag, 
and  translated  into  German  by  F.  RiJckert ;  a  work  of 
the  same  name  and  kind,  compiled  at  the  same  period 
(ninth  century),  by  Al-Buhturl,  a  single  manuscript  copy 
of  which  is  at  Leyden  ;  the  Akhbdr  al-Lusils  (stories  of 
brigands)  by  the  grammarian  Sukkari,  a  fragment  of 
which  has  been  published  by  Wright ;  and  the  great 
Kitdb  al-aghdni  (Book  of  Songs)  of  Abii'l-Faraj  'All 
al- Isfahan},  published  at  the  Bulaq  printing-press  in 
twenty  volumes,  to  which  M.  Briinnow  has  added  a 
twenty-first,  from  manuscripts  discovered  in  European 


1 8  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

libraries.  This  huge  literary  compilation  is  our  most 
valuable  source  as  to  everything  regarding  the  circum- 
stances amidst  which  the  poets  of  the  first  centuries  of 
Arab  literature  lived  their  lives  and  composed  their 
works.  In  addition  to  these  texts  we  should  mention 
the  poems  of  the  Hudhailites — the  tribe  of  Hudhail  which 
dwelt  to  the  south-east  of  Mecca,  and  which  has  left 
us  poetry  both  of  pre-Islamic  and  Moslem  times,  which 
has  been  collected  by  Sukkari,  and  studied  and  partially 
translated  by  Kosegarten,  Abicht,  and  Wellhausen. 

Side  by  side  with  the  six  poets  thus  grouped  together 
by  their  admiring  commentators,  we  find  many  warriors, 
singing  their  own  exploits  and  their  loves.  Thabit  ibn 
jabir  al-Fahmi  was  surnamed  Ta'abbata-Sharran  (one 
who  carries  evil  under  his  arm),  because  he  was  seen 
one  day  carrying  a  knife  under  his  armpit.  Like'Antara, 
he  was  a  mulatto,  like  him,  he  was  a  wandering  paladin, 
and  if  he  has  not  attained  a  like  celebrity,  it  is  because 
no  popular  romance  carried  his  name  to  distant  lands. 

There  is  a  tale  that  he  brought  a  ram  back  with  him 
out  of  the  desert,  and  that  this  ram  was  really  a  Ghoul, 
a  female  jinn  ;  and  another  that  he  brought  his  mother 
back  a  sack  full  of  vipers.  These  are  mere  explanations, 
made  up  at  a  later  date,  of  his  strange  nickname.  He 
was  a  robber  ;  he  could  run  down  the  very  gazelles. 
In  his  poems,  he  mentions  his  adventures  with  the 
ghouls,  and  how  he  saw  them,  with  their  two  eyes  set 
in  the  middle  of  a  hideous  head,  like  a  cat's,  their  split- 
up  tongues  and  misshapen  legs,  looking  like  roasted  dogs 
wrapped  in  a  rough  fustian  garment.  Abu  Wahb,  a 
man  of  Thaqif,  who  was  a  coward  in  spite  of  his  inches, 
met  the  famous  runner  one  day,  when  he  himself  was 
wearing  a  handsome  cloak.     He  inquired  how  it  was 


PRE-ISLAMIC    POETRY  19 

that  he  could  overcome  every  one,  though  he  was  short 
and  slight  and  stunted.  "  It  is  my  name,"  replied  the 
brigand.  "  When  I  meet  a  man,  I  say  '  I  am  Ta'abbata- 
Sharran,'  then  his  courage  melts  away,  and  he  gives  me 
whatever  I  demand."  The  questioner  proposed  that  he 
should  buy  the  other's  name,  the  price  to  be  the  gorgeous 
cloak,  and  the  right  to  bear  the  surname  Ahil  Wahb ; 
the  bargain  was  struck,  and  the  purchaser  gave  up  his 
new  garment,  receiving  rags  and  tatters  in  exchange. 
But  the  poet  went  from  tribe  to  tribe,  singing,  "Though 
we  may  have  exchanged  names,  who  will  give  Abil 
Wahb  my  patience  in  adversity,  my  indomitable  courage 
in  the  face  of  all  misfortunes  ?  "  He  was  fertile  in  cun- 
ning artifice,  and  his  sense  of  hearing  was  singularly 
delicate.  One  night  he  warned  his  camp  companions 
that  the  foe  was  near  at  hand,  and  when  they  inquired 
on  what  he  founded  this  opinion,  he  replied,  "  I  hear 
men's  hearts  beating,  here,  under  my  feet."  Are  those 
fine  lines  in  the  Hamasa,  on  the  death  of  the  poet's 
kinsmen,  his  work  ?  "  On  the  road  "below  Sal'  a  slain 
man  lies,  whose  blood  shall  not  be  shed  without  due 
vengeance  ! "  Some  Arab  critics  have  ascribed  them  to 
Khalaf  al-Ahmar. 

The  comrade  of  Ta'abbata-Sharran's  adventures,  Shan- 
farA,  "the  man  with  thick  lips,"  a  very  hard-featured 
personage,  was  one  of  those  celebrated  runners  whom 
a  horse  at  full  gallop  could  not  outstrip.  Hence  the 
famous  proverb,  "A  swifter  runner  than  Shanfara." 

During  a  war  with  the  Beni-Saliman,  he  swore  to 
kill  a  hundred  men,  and  kept  his  oath  as  follows. 
Every  time  he  came  across  a  man  of  the  tribe,  he 
shot  an  arrow  and  struck  him  in  the  eye.  In  this 
fashion  he  piled  up  ninety-nine  victims.      The  tribe  of 


20  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

the  Beni-Salaman  set  about  ridding  itself  of  this  trouble- 
some enemy.  Usaid,  son  of  Jabir,  one  of  his  rivals 
in  fleetness,  lay  in  wait  for  him,  and  caught  him  one 
night  when  he  had  gone  down  into  a  gorge  to  slake 
his  thirst.  Thus  he  perished ;  but,  the  legend  tells 
us,  one  of  his  foes,  passing  later  where  his  skull  lay 
on  the  ground,  gave  it  a  kick.  A  splinter  of  bone 
ran  into  his  foot,  making  a  wound  of  which  he  died ; 
and  so  the  full  tale  of  victims  was  accomplished,  and 
the  vow  was  kept.  Shanfara,  if  we  may  believe  his 
lines  preserved  in  the  Hamasa,  had  himself  requested 
that  he  might  lie  unburied.  "  Bury  me  not  !  for  you 
are  forbidden  to  perform  this  duty  for  me.  But  thou, 
O  Hyena,  shalt  rejoice  when  they  carry  off  my  head 
(and  in  my  head  the  most  of  me  resides)."  Ta'abbata- 
Sharran  pronounced  his  funeral  oration  in  verse. 

He  is  famous  for  his  great  ode,  the  Ldiniyyat  al-Arab, 
or  poem  rhyming  in  /,  of  which  Silvestre  de  Sacy  and 
Fresnel  have  given  us  fine  translations.  Doubt  has 
been  felt  as  to  whether  the  famous  poem  was  really 
written  by  Shanfara,  and  it  has  been  pointed  out  that 
the  ancient  Arab  philologists  were  not  aware  of  its 
existence.  But  if  Shanfara  was  not  the  author,  it  is 
certainly  the  work  of  some  one  who  was  thoroughly 
acquainted  with  Arab  life  in  ancient  times,  and  who 
felt  the  inspiration  of  the  wild  sons  of  the  desert  stirring 
within  him.  In  this  case  it  can  have  been  written  by  no 
other  than  Khalaf  al-Ahmar. 

Besides  the  name  of  'Antara,  the  tribe  of  "Abs  may 
cite  with  pride  that  of  'Urwa  ibn  al-Ward  ;  he  was,  in 
fact,  considered  more  as  a  poet,  and  'Antara  more  as 
a  hero.  His  father,  whose  praises  'Antara  sang,  had 
fought  in  the    war  of  Dahis.     He  himself,  like  all  his 


PRE-ISLAMIC    POETRY  21 

fellows,  was  a  warrior.  He  was  called  "''Urwa  of  the 
Needy,"  because  he  had  gathered  a  troop  of  poor 
plunderers,  whose  needs  he  supplied  when  they  came 
in  empty-handed  from  a  foray.  He  sang  of  them  : 
"  May  God  cast  shame  upon  the  poor  man,  when, 
wrapped  in  the  darkness  of  the  night,  he  crawls  along 
the  soft  earth,  fumbling  among  the  skinned  camels. 
But  how  noble-looking  is  the  poor  man  when  his  cheek 
is  reddened  by  the  flame  of  fire  borrowed  from  his 
neighbour,  which  casts  light  upon  him  !  If  he  meet 
death,  it  is  a  glorious  death.  If  he  gain  riches,  he  has 
made  himself  worthy  of  them  ! "  He  had  carried  off  a 
young  girl  named  Salma,  given  her  her  freedom,  and 
married  her.  Ten  years  later,  her  family  bought  her 
back,  snatching  'Urwa's  consent  in  a  moment  of  drunken- 
ness. Salma  left  him,  extolling  his  generosity  and  valour  ; 
but  she  had  never  learnt  to  endure  being  treated  as  a  slave 
by  the  women  of  his  tribe.  His  liberality  knew  no  bounds. 
"  As  for  me,  I  would  cut  up  my  body  to  feed  my  guests, 
and  I  am  content  to  drink  pure  water."  He  has  been 
compared  with  the  famous  Hatim,  of  the  tribe  of  Tai. 

DHtf'L-ASBA'  al-AdwanI,  whose  proper  name  was 
Hurthan  ibn  al-Harith,  owed  his  surname  of  "  the  man 
with  the  finger,"  to  the  fact  that  one  of  his  fingers  had 
withered  as  the  result  of  a  viper's  bite.  The  tribe  of 
Adwan,  to  which  he  belonged,  was  powerful  on  account 
of  its  numerous  fighting  men,  of  the  fame  of  'Amir,  son 
of  Zarib,  who  was  accepted  by  every  Arab  of  Qais  blood 
as  his  Hakam,  or  supreme  arbiter,  and  of  its  peculiar 
prerogative,  that  of  haranguing  the  pilgrims  on  their 
return  from  Mecca,  and  granting  them  leave  to  rejoin 
their  tribes.  This  prosperity  died  away,  as  a  result  of 
internecine  quarrels,  and  it  was  the  downfall  of  his  tribe 


22  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

which  inspired  the  elegies  of  Dhu'1-Asba.  "The  props 
of  the  tribe  of  'Adwan  were  like  unto  serpents  crawling 
on  the  ground.  They  strove  to  rise  one  higher  than  the 
other,  and  all  they  reached  was  emptiness."  He  reached 
a  very  advanced  age ;  and  his  four  sons-in-law,  fearing 
he  might  fall  into  dotage,  endeavoured  to  prevent  him 
from  dissipating  his  fortune  ;  but  he  made  answer  to 
them  :  "  If  you  assert  that  I  have  grown  old,  know  ye 
that  I  have  never  been  held  to  be  a  burden,  nor  a  being 
of  dulness  or  imbecility.  Wherefore  then  do  ye  so 
slander  me  ? "  And  in  another  piece  of  verse  :  "  Marvel 
not,  Umama,  at  these  happenings.  Fortune  and  Fate 
have  overwhelmed  us!"  Umama  was  his  daughter, 
herself  a  poetess,  who  mourned  with  him  the  decay  of 
the  power  of  'Adwan.  "They  have  passed  a  goblet 
round ;  woe  to  those  who  have  drunk !  They  have 
perished,  they  have  sought  refuge  in  the  desert!"  In 
the  counsels  given  to  his  son  Usaid  (the  lion-cub),  he 
sets  forth  a  noble  ideal  for  the  Arab  warrior.  "  Use  thy 
goods  nobly ;  make  thyself  the  brother  of  all  generous 
men,  whenever  thou  findest  means  of  entering  into 
brotherhood  with  them.  However  wide  the  distance, 
never  forget  the  debt  thou  owest  thy  brother,  and  the 
poor.  Rush  into  battle  where  the  most  intrepid  of 
heroes  shuns  the  charge,  and  when  thou  art  summoned 
on  an  important  matter,  take  all  the  burden  of  it  on 
thee." 

QuTBA  IBN  Aus  al-Hadira  fell  out  with  Zabban  ibn 
Sayyar,  and  there  was  an  exchange  of  satires  between 
the  two.  It  was  Zabban  who  surnamed  him  Al-Hadira 
(the  thick,  the  squat),  and  the  nickname  stuck  to  him. 
"  One  would  think  you  were  a  woman,  with  big  shoulders 
and  thin  flanks  ! "    It  was  when  they  had  been  out  hunting 


PRE-ISLAMIC    POETRY  23 

together.  Zabban  drew  aside,  in  the  evening,  to  roast 
the  game.  Then  H^dira  called  out :  "  You  forsake  your 
comrade,  you  think  of  nothing  but  your  own  jaws  out 
there  in  the  darkness  ! "  Nettled  by  the  speech,  Zabb^n 
shot  back  the  line,  in  which  he  compared  him  to  a 
"big-shouldered  woman,"  and  so  the  duel  went  on. 

'ABfD  IBN  al-Abras,  of  the  tribe  of  Asad,  dwelt  at 
the  court  of  Hira,  and  held  habitual  intercourse  with 
Nabigha  Dhubyani.  He  is  said  to  have  been  put  to 
death,  at  an  advanced  age,  by  King  Mundhir,  the  son  of 
Maul-sama,  sacrificed  on  the  tomb  of  two  of  the  king's 
former  friends,  whom  he  had  caused  to  be  buried  alive, 
in  a  fit  of  rage.  The  king  had  sworn  to  slay  the  first 
person  who  entered  his  presence  on  the  second  day  of 
annual  mourning  he  had  voluntarily  imposed  on  himself, 
and  to  feed  the  ravens  with  his  blood.  The  poet  pleaded 
for  leave  to  drink  himself  drunk  before  he  died.  This 
barbarous  custom  held  sway  until  the  king  was  touched 
by  the  nobility  of  a  certain  Hanzala,  of  the  tribe  of 
Tai,  who,  having  asked  a  respite,  and  promised  to  re- 
turn, came  back  in  time  to  fulfil  his  promise  and  save 
his  surety,  who  was  just  about  to  suffer  in  his  stead. 
After  that  incident,  Mundhir  abolished  all  bloody 
sacrifices.  'Abid  was  a  poor  man,  with  no  possessions 
of  his  own.  One  day  he  was  leading  the  flocks  belong- 
ing to  his  sister  Mawiyya  to  the  well,  when  he  was  driven 
away  by  a  man  who  struck  him  on  the  forehead.  The 
poor  wretch  turned  him  about,  crestfallen,  and  fell 
asleep  under  some  shady  trees.  He  rose  from  that 
slumber  a  poet.  A  genius  had  come  to  him  in  his 
sleep,  and  laid  a  poetic  charm  between  his  lips. 

Famous  everywhere  for  his  unbounded  generosity  is 
Hatim.  of  the  tribe  of  Tai.     When  the  "deaf  month" 


24  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

(Rajab),  observed  by  the  pagans  of  Mudar,  began,  he 
killed  ten  camels  a  day,  and  fed  his  guests.  The  poets, 
Al-Hutai'a  and  Bishr  ibn  Abi  Khazim,  were  both  par- 
takers of  his  hospitality.  He  had  lost  his  father  in  early 
youth,  and  was  brought  up  by  his  grandfather,  Sad  ibn 
al-Hashraj,  on  whom  he  played  the  sorry  trick  of  pre- 
senting the  herd  of  camels  he  had  been  sent  out  to  keep, 
as  a  gift  to  a  passing  caravan  of  poets.  His  ambition  to 
be  considered  the  most  generous  of  men  had  led  him  into 
this  piece  of  extravagance.  His  grandfather  could  not  for- 
give the  prank.  He  struck  his  tents  and  left  Hatim  alone, 
with  the  slave  girl  he  had  given  him,  his  mare  and  her 
foal.  Then  it  was  that  Hatim  spoke  the  splendid  lines  : 
"  I  suffered  not  when  Sa  d  and  his  family  departed, 
leaving  me  lonely  in  my  home,  parted  from  all  my  kin. 
By  squandering  my  fortune  I  have  won  swift  glory,  just 
as  War  is  baring  her  hideous  twisted  fangs."  Hatim's 
tomb  was  set  round  with  stones,  standing  facing  each 
other,  like  mourners.  Hither  came  Abu'l-Khaibari,  call- 
ing upon  the  dead  man,  and  praying  him  to  provide 
a  feast.  Next  morning  he  found  his  camel-mare  slaugh- 
tered and  his  comrades  feasting  on  her  flesh.  Shortly 
afterwards  Hatim's  son  came  to  him,  saying  his  father 
had  appeared  to  him  in  a  dream,  and  charged  him  to 
replace  the  camel  he  had  been  forced  to  slaughter  to 
keep  up  his  reputation  for  hospitality.  *And  there  were 
many  more.  Laqit  ibn  Ya'mur,  of  the  tribe  of  lyad, 
which  haunted  the  wide  Mesopotamian  plains,  composed 
a  long  ode,  warning  his  fellow-tribesmen  of  the  ambushes 
prepared  by  the  Persian  King,  Chosroes,  who  was  resolved 
to  clear  the  banks  of  the  Euphrates  of  these  marauders  ; 
but  they  would  not  believe  their  poet's  warnings,  and 
were   all    surprised    and    put   to    the    sword.      Aus    ibn 


PRE-ISLAMIC    POETRY  25 

Hajar,  of  the  tribe  of  Tamim,  belonged  to  the  far-off 
province  of  Bahrain.  He  was  a  wandering  bard,  who 
travelled  through  Northern  Arabia  and  the  countries 
watered  by  the  Euphrates,  whither  the  court  of  Hira 
attracted  him.  His  verses,  mere  fragments  of  which 
remain  to  us,  are  full  of  descriptions  of  hunting  and 
warlike  episodes  of  every  kind.  During  one  of  his 
journeys  he  was  thrown  from  his  camel  and  broke  both 
his  legs.  He  was  tended  by  Fudala  ibn  Kilda,  who  came 
and  pitched  his  tent  on  the  very  spot  where  the  poet 
lay,  and  by  his  daughter  Halima,  and,  in  his  gratitude, 
dedicated  poems  to  them,  which  we  still  possess. 

An  interesting  historical  figure  is  that  of  Umayya,  son 
of  Abfi'1-Salt,  a  Meccan,  born  at  Ta'if,  "  who  had  read 
the  books  and  practised  the  doctrines  of  the  Jewish 
Christians,"  and  who,  nevertheless,  remained  a  pagan  till 
he  died,  in  630,  eight  years  after  the  Hegira.  Towards 
the  year  572,  either  he  or  his  father  had  been  one  of  a 
deputation  sent  by  the  Quraishites  to  wait  on  the  King 
of  Yemen,  Saif  ibn  Dhi  Yazan,  and  had  offered  him  con- 
gratulations in  verse  on  his  victory  over  the  Abyssinians. 
The  subjects  of  Umayya's  poetry,  as  a  rule,  were  re- 
ligious, and  drawn  from  the  common  source  of  Jewish 
and  Christian  ideas.  He  may  be  looked  on  as  a  pre- 
cursor of  Mahomet.  In  one  of  his  poems  he  called  the 
Day  of  Judgment  "  the  day  of  mutual  disappointment," 
yaum  al-takhdbun,  an  expression  which  has  passed  into 
the  text  of  the  Koran  (chap.  64).  He  applied  strange 
names  to  the  Deity,  such  as  had  never  fallen  on  Arab 
ears  before.  Sometimes  siltit,  "the  emperor";  some- 
times, again,  taghriw,  "  the  crown-bearer "  (Persian, 
iaka-bard).  He  wore  a  hair  shirt  to  mortify  his  flesh. 
In  his  poems  he  refers  to  the  Old  Testament  prophets, 
3 


26  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

and  to  the  Hantfs,  an  Arab  sect  which  held  the  tenets  of 
Abraham's  faith,  and  was  the  cradle  of  Islamism.  He 
forbade  the  use  of  wine,  and  did  not  believe  in  idols. 
The  Moslems  asserted  that  he  would  fain  have  been 
chosen  by  God  to  be  His  prophet,  and  that  on  this 
account  he  was  jealous  of  Mahomet,  against  whom  he 
was  still  composing  satires  in  624. 

The  real  name  of  Al-A'sha  was  Maimun  ibn  Qais. 
He  was  born  in  the  distant  land  of  Yamama,  south  of 
Najd,  which  lies  along  the  great  trackless  desert  of 
Dahna.  His  tomb  was  to  be  seen  there,  in  the  village  of 
Manfuha.  With  his  eulogies,  for  which  he  took  his 
fee,  he  fared  all  through  Arabia,  from  Hadramaut  to 
Hira,  near  the  Euphrates.  His  mocking  verses  made 
him  the  terror  of  his  foes.  He  was  a  monotheist,  and 
believed  in  the  Resurrection  and  the  Last  Judgment.  His 
opinions  had  felt  the  influence  of  his  Christian  associates, 
whether  of  the'Ibads  of  Hira,  who  sold  him  wine,  or  of 
his  friend  the  Bishop  of  Najran  in  Yemen.  His  verse 
is  praised  for  the  variety  of  its  metre,  and  the  art  of  its 
panegyric  and  its  satire.  His  descriptions  of  wme  and 
of  the  wild  ass  are  much  quoted.  The  ode  in  which  he 
sang  the  Prophet  Mahomet's  mission  is  famous  all  over 
the  East.  His  father,  Qais,  had  been  surnamed  Qatil 
al-pf  (dead  of  hunger)  because,  when  he  entered  a 
cave  for  the  sake  of  shade,  a  rock  slipped  down  the 
mountain  and  closed  the  orifice,  so  that  he  could  not 
get  out,  and  was  starved  to  death. 

The  son  takes  front  rank  among  the  Arab  poets.  Sil- 
vestre  de  Sacy  held  him  a  worthy  equal  of  the  authors 
of '  the  Mu'allaqat,  and  the  Arabs,  when  reckoning  up 
their  best  pre-Islamic  poets,  likened  him  to  Imru'u'l- 
Qais,  Nabigha,  and  Zuhair.     His  verses  sing  the  praise 


PRE-ISLAMIC    POETRY  27 

of  Huraira,  his  beloved,  a  black  slave.  She  had  a 
beautiful  voice,  and  her  master  made  her  sing  for  his 
delight.  He  went  every  year  to  the  fair  at  "Ukaz,  and 
was  enabled,  by  the  praises  he  addressed  to  a  certain 
Muhallek,  a  poor  man,  in  gratitude  for  his  hospitality,  to 
assist  him  in  finding  husbands  for  his  eight  daughters. 
Once  when  he  was  returning  from  the  fair,  laden  with 
gifts,  and  feared  he  might  be  robbed  by  the  Beni- Amir, 
^through  whose  territory  he  had  to  pass,  he  begged 
Alqama,  son  of 'Ulatha,  to  protect  him.  'Alqama  under- 
took to  defend  him  from  men  and  jinns.  Al-A'sha 
inquired  if  he  would  promise  to  defend  him  from  death 
as  well,  a  request  which 'Alqama  refused.  But  "Amir,  the 
son  of  Tufail,  promised  to  protect  him  from  death  itself. 
"  How  so  ? "  asked  Asha.  "  If  death  comes  to  thee 
whilst  thou  art  under  my  protection,"  answered  'Amir, 
"  I  will  pay  thy  kinsfolk  the  fine  which  is  the  price  of 
blood."  This  reply  satisfied  A'sha,  but  not  his  original 
and  now  ousted  protector,  who  cried  :  "  If  I  had  known 
what  he  was  asking  me,  I  would  have  granted  his 
desire." 

Amongst  the  town  poets  we  must  mention  Qais,  son 
of  Al-Khatim,  who  lived  at  Yathrib,  a  town  later  called 
Medina,  which  name  it  bears  at  the  present  day.  He 
made  himself  famous  by  his  avenging  pursuit  of  the 
murderers  of  his  father  and  grandfather,  and  by  the 
war  he  thus  caused  between  the  Aus  and  Khazraj 
tribes.  He  was  a  handsome  man,  with  eye-brows 
that  met,  great  black  eyes,  red  lips,  and  dazzlingly 
white  teeth.  Hassan  ibn  Thabit  had  counselled  the 
poetess  Al-Khansa  to  direct  her  satires  against  Qais. 
"  I  never  attack  a  person  I  have  never  seen,"  she 
answered.     One  day  she  went  to  see  him,  and  found 


28  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

him  lying  on  the  floor  of  a  room.  She  stirred  him  with 
her  foot  until  he  rose,  and  then  made  him  step  back- 
wards and  forwards,  till  Qais  exclaimed  :  "  One  would 
think  she  was  examining  a  slave  before  she  buys  him 
in  the  market  ! "  Then  he  lay  down  and  went  to  sleep 
again,  "  Never  will  I  attack  such  a  man  as  that  ! "  said 
Al-Khansa.     He  died  in  battle  of  an  arrow  wound. 

The  custom  of  mourning  over  the  dead,  and  the  trade 
of  professional  female  mourners,  gave  birth  to  the  elegy 
in  praise  of  the  dead  (rnarthiya),  the  composition  of 
which,  like  the  performance  of  this  portion  of  the  obse- 
quies, was  confided  to  women  only.  Such  poems  open 
with  a  description  of  the  feehngs  of  the  bereaved,  and 
the  tears  the  mourner  is  unable  to  control.  They  go  on 
to  detail  the  virtues  of  the  defunct,  and  the  poignant 
regret  the  loss  of  such  an  individuality  must  cause. 
These  eulogies  are  for  the  most  part  based  on  the  chief 
virtues  of  the  pagan  Arab,  valour  and  generosity.  Last 
of  all  comes  the  appeal  for  vengeance.  Al-Khansa 
won  fame  by  her  elegies  in  this  style.  Her  name  was 
Tumadir.  The  surname  by  which  she  is  known  signi- 
fies "The  wild  cow  with  a  crushed  muzzle."  She  was 
first  married  to  Mirdas,  the  son  of  Abu  'Amir,  and 
secondly,  after  his  death,  to  'Abdallah,  the  son  of  'Abd 
al- Uzza.  She  sang  the  memories  of  her  two  brothers, 
Muawiya  and  Sakhr,  the  younger  of  whom,  himself  a 
poet,  was  killed  in  a  foray. 

Jewish  and  Christian  Poets 

In  the  towns  in  the  north  of  Hijaz  there  dwelt  Jews, 
who  may  possibly  have  left  Palestine  during  the  wars 
of  Titus  and  Hadrian.     But  local  tradition  asserts  that 


PRE-ISLAMIC    POETRY  29 

they  came  into  the  country  soon  after  the  death  of 
Moses,  and  that  at  the  time  of  the  Roman  Conquest, 
the  Quraiza,  Hadal,  and  Nadir  tribes  joined  their  co- 
religionists. These  colonies  formed  a  nucleus  of  re- 
ligious propaganda,  and  Arab  tribes  associated  them- 
,  selves  with  them.  Their  religion  was  the  only  thing 
they  had  preserved.  Their  language  had  become 
purely  Arab.  Like  other  nomads,  they  began  to  chant 
verses,  and  the  greatest  of  their  poets  was  Samaual 
(Samuel),  the  grandson  of  'Adiya.  He  was  a  rich  noble- 
man, who  dwelt  in  the  castle  of  Ablaq,  called  "the 
unique,"  close  to  the  town  of  Tairaa.  This  castle  had 
been  built  by  his  grandfather,  who  had  digged  a  well 
within  it.  The  Arabs  came  there,  and  held  a  market. 
Samaual  is  famous  for  his  fidelity  to  his  sworn  oath, 
which  led  him  to  sacrifice  his  own  son  for  Imru'ul- 
Qais.  The  poet-king,  fallen  from  his  high  estate,  had 
taken  refuge  with  Samaual,  and  besought  him  to  recom- 
mend him  to  the  Kings  of  Ghassan,  who  might  interest 
the  Roman  Emperor  of  Constantinople  in  his  cause.  He 
was  given  a  guide  to  conduct  him  into  Syria.  When 
Al-Harith  ibn  Zalim,  sent  by  Al-Mundhir  to  seize 
the  treasure  confided  by  Imru'ul-Qais  to  Samaual's 
care,  laid  siege  to  the  castle,  he  seized  the  person  of  the 
Jewish  prince's  son,  as  he  was  hunting  in  the  neighbour- 
hood. "  I  will  never  give  up  the  money  which  has  been 
confided  to  my  care,"  said  the  faithful  guardian,  and  his 
cruel  enemy  caused  the  youth's  body  to  be  cut  in  two, 
across  the  middle.  Then  Samaual  sang  :  "I  have  faith- 
fully kept  the  breastplates  of  the  Kindite.  ...  I  was 
faithful,  where  so  many  are  traitors." 

Amongst  Samaual's  co-religionists   we  may  cite  Al- 
RABf',  son  of  Abu'l-Huqaiq,  who  fought  valiantly  at  the 


30  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

head  of  his  tribe  at  Bu  ath,  and  whose  sons  were  fierce 
opponents  of  the  Prophet.  He  strove  with  Nabigha  in 
that  poetic  pastime  in  which  the  first  poet  spoke  a 
hemistich,  and  the  second  had  to  complete  both  sense 
and  rh5'me  with  another,  dehvered  impromptu. 

Christianity,  like  Judaism,  had  made  proselytes  in 
Arabia.  Syria,  whither  the  Northern  Arabs  were  con- 
tinually leading  caravans,  was  full  of  churches  and 
convents ;  in  Mesopotamia  the  whole  population  was 
Christian,  The  Princes  of  Ghass^n,  at  Damascus,  pro- 
fessed the  faith,  and  the  Lakhmites,  at  Hira,  adopted  it 
likewise.  The  verses  of  such  a  poet  as  Umayya  ibn 
Abi'1-Salt,  who,  though  not  himself  a  Christian,  propa- 
gated, under  the  desert  tents,  views  drawn  from  Jewish- 
Christian  books,  had  done  much  to  spread  these  ideas 
about  Arabia. 

In  the  town  of  Hira,  peopled  by  a  mixture  of  Aramean 
and  Arab  elements,  the  'Ibads  formed  the  very  ground- 
work of  the  primitive  population,  side  by  side  with  the 
Arabs  of  the  Tanukh  tribe,  half  Bedouin,  half  husband- 
men, who  had  seized  the  country,  and  the  Ahldf,  depend- 
ants or  clients,  who  had  taken  refuge  in  the  city  from 
every  corner  of  Arabia.  Now  these  'Ibads  were  Chris- 
tians. Together  with  a  few  Jews,  they  had  monopolised 
the  wine  trade  of  the  Euphrates  valley,  and  carried  their 
wares  across  the  deserts  to  the  Arabs,  all  hard  drinkers, 
in  their  towns  and  camps.  'Antara  tells  us  of  one  desert 
hero  who  drank  so  deep  that  he  "  lowered  the  wine 
merchants' flags" — an  allusion  to  their  habit  of  hoisting 
a  flag  over  their  tents  when  they  had  wine  to  sell,  and 
lowering  it  when  the  supply  was  exhausted.  The 
religious  ideas  of  the  poet  Al-A'sha  had  already  felt  the 
influence  of  his  talks  with  these  wine  merchants,  who 


PRE-ISLAMIC    POETRY  31 

brought  the  "good  news"  with  them.  Among  these 
Christians,  who  were  probably  the  first  to  apply  the 
characters  of  the  Syrian  alphabet  to  the  Arab  tongue, 
were  several  poets,  of  whom  the  most  celebrated  was'ADi 
IBN  Zaid.  He  came  of  an  ancient  family,  holding  a  high 
position  in  the  city  of  Hira.  His  father  had  been  brought 
up  at  Ctesiphon,  at  the  court  of  the  Persian  Sasanians. 
During  the  interregnum  between  the  kings  Numan  I. 
and  Al-Mundhir,  he  was  chosen  governor  of  Hira. 
He  continued  in  this  office  under  the  last-named  king. 
'Adi,  like  his  father,  received  his  education  in  Persia. 
He  was  favoured  by  the  king  of  kings,  was  sent  on  an 
embassy  to  Constantinople,  and  passed  through  Damas- 
cus, where  his  first  poem  was  written.  When  he  re- 
turned, his  father  was  dead.  But  the  poet  loathed 
official  trammels.  He  preferred  to  remain  free  and 
independent,  oscillating  betwixt  Hira  and  Ctesiphon, 
and  singing  the  praises  of  good  wine.  He  helped  to 
set  Numin,  son  of  Al-Mundhir,  upon  the  throne,  but 
the  Beni-Marina,  whose  candidate  was  ousted,  vowed 
his  destruction.  They  accused  him  of  having  spoken  dis- 
paragingly of  the  monarch,  who  partly  owed  his  crown 
to  him  ;  the  king  tempted  him  within  his  boundaries, 
and  then  cast  him  into  prison.  The  King  of  Persia 
would  have  taken  up  his  cause,  but  when  his  envoy 
reached  Hira,  he  found  the  poet  murdered  in  his 
dungeon.  'Adi  ibn  Zaid's  Bacchic  verses  were  later  to 
be  the  joy  of  the  Omeyyad  Caliph,  Walid  II. 

Prose 

None  of  the  prose  of  those  ancient  times  has  come 
down  to  us.     It  was  not  written,  and  was,  indeed,  not 


32  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

reckoned  of  sufficient  importance  to  merit  such  an  honour. 
The  researches  of  the  Arab  philologists  give  us  some 
idea  of  what  this  very  primitive  stage  of  literature  must 
have  been  like.  There  were  evening  tales  {samar)  told 
under  the  nomads'  tents,  stories  which  were  already 
being  carried  from  town  to  town  by  the  professional 
story-tellers,  such  as  Nadr  ibn  Harith,  of  Mecca,  who 
had  learnt  the  fine  legends  of  the  ancient  Persian  kings  at 
Hira,  and  by  them  gained  a  fame  which  at  one  moment 
counterbalanced  that  Mahomet  owed  to  the  Koran 
stories,  drawn  from  the  Bible.  The  battle  of  Bedr  put 
an  end  to  this  dangerous  competition.  There  were  also 
the  legendary  and  not  at  all  trustworthy  recitals  of  the 
Arab  Days — tales  of  the  great  desert  battles ;  proverbs, 
collected  at  a  later  date  by  philologists,  and  founded  on 
forgotten  incidents,  frequently  incomprehensible,  and  ex- 
plained by  purely  imaginary  comments  and  allocutions, 
whose  makers  flattered  themselves  they  would  impress 
the  minds  of  their  fellow-creatures.  All  these  go  to 
make  up  the  elements  of  a  literary  art  of  which  we 
possess  no  written  specimen,  but  which  was  eventually 
to  undergo  a  great  development. 


CHAPTER    III 

THE    KORAN 

Born  of  a  poor  and  lightly  esteemed  family,  Mahomet 
(or  Mohammed),  who  had  begun  life  by  travelling  with 
caravans  from  Mecca  into  Syria,  had  acquired  a  fortune 
by  his  marriage  with  Khiadija.  In  his  days,  two  re- 
ligious sects,  distinct  from  the  believers  in  Judaism  and 
Christianity,  the  growth  of  which  we  have  already 
noticed,  had  taken  root  in  Arabian  soil.  One  of  these 
was  the  Rakusiyya,  the  other  the  Hanifs.  The  first  was 
undoubtedly  descended  from  the  Mandaites,  or  Chris- 
tian disciples  of  St.  John  Baptist,  known  in  the  Middle 
Ages  under  the  name  of  Sabians,  and  of  whom  a  com- 
munity still  exists  in  Lower  Mesopotamia.  They  were 
Ebionites,  who  venerated  the  Forerunner,  and  were  the 
predecessors  of  the  Gnostic  movement.  The  Hanifs  were 
Essenians,  who  fancied  themselves  to  be  practising,  under 
the  name  of  the  faith  of  Abraham,  a  kind  of  Judaism 
purified  of  all  ritual  observances,  and  which  did  not  in- 
volve any  perusal  of  the  sacred  writings.  It  was  in  the 
bosom  of  this  sect  of  the  Hanifs  that  Islamism  came  into 
existence.  Mahomet  himself  used  to  say  that  he  was  a 
Hanif,  like  those  known  at  Mecca,  Ta'if,  and  Yathrib. 
Hanif  stands  for  monotheist,  a  hater  of  idolatry ;  and 
when  Mahomet  began  to  preach,  the  men  of  Mecca 
told  him  he  had  turned  Sabian.     These  Hanifs  carried 

33 


34  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

about  a  book  called  the  Suhuf,  or  scrolls,  of  Abraham. 
A  few  years  previous  to  the  Prophet's  mission,  a  mis- 
sionary of  the  sect  appeared  in  the  Hijaz,  preached  the 
monotheism  of  Abraham,  and  found  some  followers. 
In  later  days  Mahomet  declared  these  scrolls  to  be 
forgeries.  Now,  were  they  really  a  book,  as  Sprenger 
believed,  or  must  we  accept  the  title  as  a  vague  one, 
possibly  describing  the  Israelitish  Bible  ?  However  that 
may  be,  the  Christian  followers  of  St.  John  Baptist  and 
the  Hanifs  had  prepared  the  way,  amid  all  the  poly- 
theism of  the  Arabian  Peninsula,  for  the  success  of  the 
preacher  of  the  monotheism  of  Islam. 

As  for  the  Jews — who  lived  in  the  chief  cities,  and  had 
converted  certain  tribal  chieftains  to  their  faith — and  the 
Syrians  and  Mesopotamian  Christians — whose  propa- 
ganda had  found  a  singularly  useful  supporter  in  such 
a  poet  as  Umayya  ibn  Abi'1-Salt,  who  told  the  Bible 
stories  in  the  Bedouin  camps — their  influence  cannot  be 
denied. 

The  Koran  was  revealed  in  bits  and  scraps,  and  the 
condition  in  which  we  have  received  it  gives  us  but 
a  faint  conception  of  the  manner  of  its  composition. 
For  when  it  was  finally  edited,  under  Caliph  "Uthman, 
the  chapters  or  suras  were,  with  the  exception  of  the 
first,  placed  in  order  according  to  their  length — a  purely 
artificial  arrangement. 

Mahomet,  the  Koran  tells  us,  was  inspired  by  the  Holy 
Ghost,  whom  he  held  to  t)e  an  angel,  and  whom  he 
called,  in  later  chapters,  written  at  Medina,  by  the  name 
of  the  Archangel  Gabriel,  which  he  pronounced  Jabril. 
During  the  fits  of  ecstasy  in  which  the  inspiration  came 
to  him,  he  believed  he  beheld  the  archangel's  face,  and 
when  he  was  asked  what  he  was  like,  he  always  men- 


THE    KORAN  35 

tioned  a  young  man  of  the  tribe  of  Kalb,  named  Dihya 
ibn  Khalifa.  The  revelation  was  always  imparted  in 
small  instalments,  only  one  verse,  or  a  few  together,  at  a 
time.  When  the  revelation  ceased,  Mahomet  called  one 
of  his  secretaries,  generally  'Abdallah  ibn  Sad  ibn  Abi 
Sarh,  to  write  the  words  from  his  dictation,  and  had  the 
newly  written  sheet  inserted  at  such  or  such  a  place. 

The  word  sura  is  Hebrew.  It  signifies  a  row  of 
stones  in  a  wall,  and  thus,  by  analogy,  a  line  of  writing 
— Koran  means  reading.  Furqan,  another  name  given 
to  the  book,  means  (in  Semitic  languages  other  than  the 
Arabic)  "  liberation,  deliverance"  of  the  "revelation." 

The  style  of  the  Koran  differs  very  much  according  to 
the  periods  of  the  Prophet's  life  at  which  the  revelation 
was  received.  Its  principal  characteristic  is  that  it  is 
altogether  written  in  rhymed  prose.  This  is  strongly 
apparent  in  the  earlier  s{iras,  which  have  very  short 
verses,  and  is  only  marked  in  the  longer  chapters  in- 
spired at  Medina  by  the  terminal  fause  of  each  verse, 
which  rhymes  assonantly  with  the  other  pauses.  It  must 
further  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  present  arrangement 
of  the  chapters  is  quite  artificial.  The  manner  in  which 
the  book  was  compiled  is  well  known.  The  Prophet's 
hearers  had  begun  by  trusting  their  memories  to  retain 
the  words  of  the  revelations  they  had  received  from  him. 
Later,  those  who  could  write  traced  them  in  ancient 
characters  on  palm-leaves,  on  tanned  hides,  or  on  dry 
bones.  When  the  Prophet  died,  and  his  followers  per- 
ceived that  the  hour  of  the  Last  Judgment  seemed  to 
grow  farther  and  farther  off  (for  the  first  Moslems,  like 
the  first  Christians,  believed  that  the  days  were  accom- 
plished, and  that  the  great  Resurrection  was  upon  them), 
that  civil  wars  and  frontier  raids  were  increasing,  and 


36  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

that  death  was  sweeping  away  numbers  of  those  who 
knew  all  the  Koran,  or  part  of  it,  by  heart,  fear  fell  on 
them  lest  the  Word  of  God  should  be  utterly  lost,  and 
all  the  scattered  fragments  were  brought  together.  Zaid 
ibn  Thabit,  Mahomet's  disciple,  was  charged  by  Abu 
Bekr,  the  first  Caliph,  to  collect  all  that  could  be  dis- 
covered of  the  sacred  text,  and  form  it  into  one 
volume.  The  chapters  were  then  arranged  without  any 
regard  to  historical  sequence,  simply  according  to  their 
length.  First  came  the  longest,  preceded  by  the  Fdtiha,. 
or  short  chapter  of  seven  verses  which  opens  the 
book,  and  then  the  shorter  ones.  Now  these  short 
ones  are  the  oldest.  They  were  revealed  at  Mecca, 
before  the  emigration,  while  the  long  ones  placed  at 
the  beginning  of  the  book  belong  for  the  most  part  to 
the  period  when  the  Prophet,  then  Head  of  the  army 
and  the  State,  was  at  Medina,  in  command  of  the 
troops  who  were  soon  to  place  him  in  possession  of  the 
religious  capital  of  Islam.  This  edition  of  Zaid's  may 
be  considered  the  final  one,  for  the  revision  of  twenty 
years  later  affected  details  of  language  and  grammar, 
rat.her  than  the  general  arrangement  of  the  text. 

The  style  of  the  Koran  is  not,  and  hardly  could  be, 
uniform.  Its  expression  of  thought  is  purely  Semitic, 
and  is  closely  allied  with  that  long  series  of  documents 
emanating  from  Hebraic  sources,  which  begin  with  the 
ancient  verses  of  the  Tora,  pass  through  all  the  pro- 
phetic inspiration  that  gravitated  round  Jerusalem,  and 
so  descend  to  the  Gospels.  The  sentences  are  cut  up 
into  verses,  very  short  verses  at  first,  then  very  long. 
The  rhymed  prose  is  marked  by  the  alliterations  at  the 
close  of  each  verse.  The  chapters  fall  into  two  great 
classes,  according  as  they  were  produced  at  Mecca  or 


THE    KORAN  37 

Medina.  The  first  belongs  to  the  preaching  period, 
before  the  emigration.  The  second  came  after  the 
Hegira. 

At  the  outset  the  expression  is  curt,  because  the  in- 
spiration is  powerful,  the  adjuration  is  pathetic.  God 
speaks,  and  the  man  falls  out  of  sight.  Here  Mahomet 
appears  as  the  Prophet.  He  has  not  yet  become  the 
statesman,  the  legislator,  who  calls  a  new  state  of 
society  to  life.  His  object  is  not  to  give  his  fellow- 
countrymen  a  code  of  laws,  but  to  teach  them  to  wor- 
ship the  true  God.  There  is  no  mention  of  ritual  nor 
any  reference  to  social  laws.  Mahomet  calls  on  his 
hearers  to  believe  the  evidence  of  their  own  appercep- 
tion of  the  universe.  He  bids  them  admire  the  marvels 
of  nature,  the  stars,  the  moon,  the  sun,  "  all  of  them 
signs  of  God's  power,  if  you  will  understand  them  "  ;  or 
else  he  recounts  the  misfortunes  which  have  befallen 
past  generations  who  would  not  hearken  to  the  prophets 
— legends  which  are  a  mixture  of  the  Rabbinic  fables 
with  old  national  traditions  concerning  the  vanished 
tribes  of 'Ad  and  Thamud. 

In  the  oldest  of  the  Meccan  sAras,  the  sentences  have 
a  rhythmic  connection,  although  there  is  no  regular 
metre ;  prosodic  forms  occur  but  very  seldom,  and 
only  in  short  passages.  The  expression  of  thought  is 
very  succinct,  and  generally  exceedingly  vague  and  in- 
complete. But  the  address  is  bold  and  passionate. 
One  feels  that  the  Prophet  is  straining  every  nerve  to 
convince  the  careless  that  his  mission  is  genuine.  His 
vehemence  of  expression  is  apparent  even  athwart  the 
dull  pall  cast  over  it  by  translation  into  our  analytic 
tongues.  There  is  as  much  of  the  poet  as  of  the  preacher 
in  him,  as  Stanley  Lane-Poole  accurately  remarks.     His 


38  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

great  argument,  in  his  exhortations  to  do  right  and  fear 
God,  is  the  Day  of  Judgment ;  and  the  behevers'  reward, 
which  he  holds  up  glittering  before  their  eyes,  is  the 
hope  of  Paradise.  "  When  the  heavens  part,  when  the 
stars  are  scattered,  when  the  waters  of  the  seas  are 
mingled,  when  the  tombs  are  overthrown,  then  shall 
each  soul  behold  its  deeds,  from  first  to  last.  .  .  .  The 
just  shall  dwell  in  bliss,  but  the  faithless  shall  be  in  hell." 
His  imprecations  against  his  foes  are  frightful,  but  it 
must  not  be  forgotten  that  throughout  the  Koran  it  is 
God  who  speaks,  while  the  Prophet  merely  transmits  the 
revelation.  The  fierce  feelings  of  the  desert  Arab  are 
frankly  unveiled,  without  a  touch  of  hypocrisy  to  hide 
their  cruelty.  Mahomet's  curse  upon  his  uncle,  Abu 
Lahab,  is  famous.  "  May  the  two  hands  of  Abu  Lahab 
perish,  and  may  he  perish  himself  likewise  ! " 

In  a  second  category  of  the  Mecca  chapters,  the  ad- 
jurations "by  the  sun  and  its  brightness,  by  the  moon 
when  it  follows  close  uponit,  by  the  sky  and  Him  who 
built  it,"  have  almost  disappeared.  The  formula  "by 
the  Koran  ! "  takes  their  place.  The  address  opens  with 
the  declaration,  "This  is  the  revelation  of  God,"  and, 
so  that  there  may  be  no  doubt  as  to  whence  the  words 
spoken  by  the  Prophet  proceed,  he  prefixes  to  them  the 
divine  order,  in  the  word  "  Say ! "  The  history  of  the 
ancient  Hebrew  prophets,  obtained  from  the  Jewish 
Haggada,  through  his  verbal  intercourse  with  Jewish 
acquaintances,  is  the  chief  proof  of  his  mission  put 
forward  by  Mahomet.  Small  wonder  that  the  history, 
coming  in  so  indirect  a  fashion,  should  be  incorrect  and 
full  of  legends. 

A  third  period,  that  of  argument,  is  marked  by  the 
more  prosaic   nature  of   the  language  used.     The  only 


THE    KORAN  39 

novel  feature  is  the  Prophet's  answer  to  the  "wicked 
and  adulterous  generation"  that  presumes  to  demand 
a  miracle  in  proof  of  the  truth  of  his  mission.  Miracles, 
he  says,  are  everywhere  about  us.  "  Wherefore  ask  for 
a  miracle  when  the  whole  of  nature  is  a  miracle  ?  I 
am  only  sent  to  warn  you  ! "  A  special  mention  should 
also  be  made  of  all  the  verses  in  which  the  name  applied 
to  the  Deity  is  "al-Rahmin"  (the  Merciful),  the  name 
borne  by  the  pagan  divinity  of  certain  tribes. 

The  second  part  of  the  Koran  comprises  the  four- 
and-twenty  chapters  written  during  the  ten  years  spent 
at  Medina  after  the  flight.  Enthusiasm  is  less  fierce  ; 
the  preacher  is  giving  place  to  the  lawgiver,  the  states- 
man. He  teaches,  he  explains.  His  object  is  no  longer 
to  subjugate  and  to  convince.  The  ideas  of  his  followers 
are  formed.  They  believe,  and  the  swelling  multitude 
of  his  disciples  forces  his  unbelieving  foes  to  the  con- 
viction that  they  will  soon  have  to  reckon  with  his 
growing  power.  The  style  loses  its  poetic  character. 
It  becomes  a  lengthy  prose,  with  constant  repetitions, 
intended  to  drive  certain  simple  ideas  into  even  the 
most  obtuse  of  brains.  The  sermons,  which  opened 
during  the  Meccan  period  with  the  formula  "  O  men  ! " 
now  begin  "  O  ye  who  believe  ! "  or,  when  the  preacher 
speaks  to  his  enemies,  "O  Jews!"  or  even  "O  hypo- 
crites ! "  The  general  style  is  heavy  and  diffuse  ;  the 
verses  are  very  long.  The  chapters  are  made  up  of 
fragmentary  harangues  and  detached  sentences ;  yet 
from  time  to  time  passages  of  a  truly  wonderful  beauty 
and  nobility  of  thought  and  expression  occur.  The 
principles  of  the  religious,  civil,  and  penal  code  of  the 
newly  formed  society  are  nearly  all  contained  in  the 
tliree  longest  chapters — the  second,  fourth,  and  fifth — 


40  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

which  form  almost  a  tenth  part  of  the  whole  of  the 
sacred  volume. 

The  text  of  the  Koran  was  certainly  not  brought 
together  during  the  Prophet's  hfetime.  Only  four  of 
his  disciples,  Ubayy  ibn  Ka'b,  Muadh  ibn  Jabal,  Zaid 
ibn  Thabit,  and  Abu  Zaid  Ansari,  had  gathered  more 
or  less  complete  collections  of  its  words.  The  struggle 
with  Musailima,  the  false  prophet,  had  cost  the  lives 
of  many  of  the  chosen  depositaries  of  the  original  text, 
when  Abij  Bekr,  impelled  by'Umar,  who  had  seen  the 
end  of  many  of  these  precious  witnesses,  ordered  that 
every  written  text  to  be  discovered  should  be  collected, 
and  confided  this  task  to  Zaid,  who  had  acted  as 
Mahomet's  secretary.  'Umar,  who  supervised  this  edi- 
tion, would  only  accept  written  passages  supported  by 
the  declaration  of  two  witnesses.  Thus  many  fragments 
of  the  revelation,  for  which  this  twofold  testimony  could 
not  be  adduced,  were  not  incorporated,  though  they 
may  well  have  been  authentic.  This  gave  the  Shi'ites 
ground  for  affirming,  in  later  days,  that  the  Sunnite 
text  was  incomplete,  and  that  everything  relating  to 
the  providential  mission  of  'Ali  and  his  family  had 
been  expunged  therefrom.  The  edition  bore  no  official 
character — a  proof  of  this  lies  in  the  fact  that,  when'Umar 
died,  it  became  the  property  of  his  daughter,  Hafsa. 

During  the  wars  in  Armenia  and  Adharbaijan,  the 
soldiers  from  'Iraq  wrangled  v^rith  those  from  Syria  over 
the  way  in  which  the  Koran  should  be  read.  Hudhaifa, 
their  leader,  laid  the  question  before  Caliph  'Uthman, 
who  commanded  Zaid  ibn  Thabit  and  some  other 
Quraishites  to  draw  up  an  authoritative  text.  They 
collected  all  the  existing  copies,  but  acknowledged  that 
of  Abfl  Bekr,   preserved   by    Hafsa,  as  their  true  basis. 


THE    KORAN  41 

and  when  the  work  was  finished,  "Uthmin  had  all  the 
others  done  away  with,  except  Abli  Bekr's,  which  itself 
was  shortly  afterwards  destroyed  by  Marwan,  Governor 
of  Medina.  All  the  copies  of  the  Koran  now  scattered 
over  the  Moslem  world,  therefore,  without  exception,  are 
reproductions  of 'Uthman's  edition. 

Mahomet,  who  had  no  love  for  heathen  poets,  and 
was  always  afraid  his  followers  might  forsake  him  and 
go  back  to  the  rhythmic  chants  to  which  their  cradles 
had  been  rocked,  sought  out  bards  to  sing  his  own 
praises.  One  of  the  poems  of  Labid  is  included  in 
the  Muallaqat.  He  belonged  to  a  prominent  family  of 
the  Beni-Ja'far.  His  father,  Rabi'a,  had  earned  by  his 
generosity  the  sobriquet  of  "  Rabfa  of  the  needy."  Born 
about  560,  he  lived  to  a  great  age,  till  the  beginning  of 
the  Caliphate  of  Muawiya,  towards  661.  Legend  asserts 
him  to  have  been  a  hundred  and  forty-live  years  old  when 
he  died.  He  heard  the  Mecca  sermons,  and  was  not  a 
whit  impressed  by  them.  When  Mahomet  had  retired 
to  Medina,  Labid's  uncle,  'Amir,  whose  prowess  had 
earned  him  the  surname  of  "Champion  of  the  lance," 
fell  sick,  and  sent  his  nephew  to  consult  the  Prophet 
as  to  his  case.  Labid  then  heard  the  Koran  recited,  and 
these  recitals,  delivered  with  all  the  gravity  and  earnest- 
ness of  conviction,  made  the  deepest  impression  upon 
his  mind.  The  passage  which  worked  his  final  accept- 
ance of  the  new  faith  is  actually  quoted  : — 

"These  are  they  who  have  bought  error  with  the 
coin  of  truth,  but  their  bargain  has  brought  them  no 
profit,  they  have  not  continued  in  the  right  way.  They 
are  like  unto  a  man  who  has  kindled  a  fire.  When 
the  fire  has  cast  its  light  on  all  that  is  about  it,  and 
God  has  suddenly  quenched  it,  leaving  men  in  dark- 
4 


42  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

ness,  they  can  see  nothing  at  all.  Deaf,  dumb,  blind, 
they  are  not  able  to  retrace  their  steps.  They  are  like 
unto  those  who,  when  a  great  cloud  heavy  with  dark- 
ness and  thunder  and  lightning  comes  down  from 
heaven,  are  filled  with  the  fear  of  death,  and  stop 
their  ears  with  their  fingers  to  shut  out  the  noise  of 
the  thunder,  while  the  Lord  hems  in  the  infidels  on 
every  side.  The  thunderbolt  well  nigh  blinds  them. 
When  the  lightning  flashes  they  walk  by  its  light.  When 
it  leaves  them  in  darkness,  they  stop  short.  If  God  so 
willed  it,  He  would  take  sight  and  hearing  from  them, 
for  He  is  all-powerful.  O  men  !  worship  your  Lord, 
who  has  created  you  and  those  who  came  before  you. 
Mayhap  you  will  fear  Him." 

After  his  uncle's  death  Labid  went  with  a  deputation 
of  his  tribe  to  Medina,  and  was  there  publicly  con- 
verted. Once  a  Moslem,  he  cared  no  more  for  his 
poems,  and  never  mentioned  them  of  his  own  will.  What 
he  specially  valued  in  the  new  order  of  things  was  the 
social  organisation  which  he  saw  taking  the  place  of 
the  penury,  the  frays,  and  life  of  general  rapine,  which 
had  hitherto  been  the  lot  of  the  nomad  Arabs.  He 
thought  it  an  admirable  thing  that  there  should  be  "a 
public  force  established  to  protect  men  from  each  other, 
institutions  out  of  which  a  servant  bearing  wallets  brings 
support  to  those  who  need  it,  and  a  public  treasury 
which  pays  each  man  the  salary  which  is  his  due." 
This  gives  a  vivid  idea  of  the  state  of  the  Peninsula 
before  the  Prophet's  time. 

Labid  had  a  brother,  Arbad,  who  was  killed  by  light- 
ning while  on  his  way  back  from  Medina,  whither  he  had 
journeyed,  it  is  said,  in  the  hope  of  taking  the  Prophet 
by  surprise  and  killing  him.     His  sudden  death  wasattri- 


THE    KORAN  43 

buted  to  the  vengeance  of  heaven.  The  poet  mourned 
long  for  his  brother.  He  composed  sad  elegies  about 
him,  in  vi^hich  he  sang  of  the  emptiness  of  life.  "  Man 
is  but  a  little  flame.  A  little  while  after  it  has  risen  into 
the  air,  it  turns  to  ashes."  Before  he  died,  he  desired 
his  two  daughters  to  mourn  him  for  one  year.  "  Do  not 
tear  your  faces  nor  shave  off  your  hair.  Say  rather  :  'Our 
father  was  a  man  who  never  forsook  a  comrade,  nor 
betrayed  the  trust  of  a  friend.'  Repeat  these  words  till 
one  year  has  gone  by,  and  then  go  in  peace.  For  he 
who  has  mourned  a  whole  year  through,  has  fulfilled  his 
duty,  and  deserves  no  reproach." 

But  for  Hassan  ibn  Thabit  was  reserved  the  glory 
of  acting  as  the  Prophet's  panegyrist,  and  singing  his 
glories.  He  was  born  at  Medina,  visited  Hira  and 
Damascus  in  his  younger  days,  and  finally  attached 
himself  to  Mahomet  as  his  court-poet,  whose  duty  it 
was  to  reply  to  the  bards  accompanying  the  deputations 
sent  by  the  different  tribes  to  make  their  submission. 
Beside  the  great  heathen  models,  Hassan  strikes  us  as 
colourless,  and  his  style  as  very  bald.  But  the  subject 
of  his  work  has  ensured  him  undying  renown  amongst 
the  Moslems.  Ka'b  ibn  Zuhair,  son  of  the  poet  of  the 
Muallaqa,  had  begun  by  scoffing  at  the  new  Prophet. 
The  conversion  of  the  Muzaina  tribe,  of  which  he  was 
a  member,  and  even  that  of  his  brother  Bujair,  only 
increased  the  bitterness  of  his  jests.  This  was  displeasing 
to  the  Prophet,  and  threatened  to  be  an  ultimate  source 
of  danger  to  him,  on  account  of  the  hold  exercised  by 
poets  over  the  Bedouin  mind.  He  decreed  this  poet's 
death.  It  was  not  easy  to  escape  the  execution  of  the 
terrible  fiat.  But  Kab  succeeded  in  doing  so  in  very 
skilful  fashion.     The  encomiums   he  showered  on  the 


44  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

victorious  leader  were  so  agreeable  to  him  that  he  pre- 
sented their  author  with  his  own  cloak  (burdd),  a  gift 
that  established  the  verse-maker's  reputation,  and  for 
which  he  expressed  his  gratitude  in  a  poem,  known  by- 
its  two  opening  words  " Bdnat  Sudd  .  .  .  ,"  which  has 
been  read  and  admired  all  over  the  Moslem  East. 

Celebrity  has  been  won  by  the  elegies,  full  of  deep 
feeling,  in  which  MUTAMMIM  IBN  NUWAIRA  mourned  the 
tragic  fate  of  his  brother  Malik.  Malik  was  chief  of  the 
Yarbu,  a  branch  of  the  Tamim  tribe.  He  had  em- 
braced the  Moslem  faith,  and  had  been  appointed  a  tax 
collector.  After  the  Prophet's  death,  when  the  Arabs 
ceased  to  feel  the  heavy  hand  which  had  kept  them 
silent,  he,  with  others,  rebelled  against  Caliph  Abu 
Bekr,  the  Prophet's  successor,  and  endeavoured  to  cast 
off  an  authority  they  thought  oppressive.  My  readers 
are  aware  that  this  movement  was  speedily  put  down 
by  the  Caliph's  generals  ;  Malik  was  defeated,  surren- 
dered to  Khalid,  and,  Moslem  though  he  was,  paid  for 
his  rebellion  with  his  life. 

AbO  Mihjan  waited  till  the  Thaqif  tribe,  to  which 
he  belonged,  had  been  convinced  by  armed  force  of 
the  truth  of  the  Prophet's  mission  before  he  himself 
became  a  Moslem.  But  one  of  his  heathen  errors  he 
always  retained — an  immoderate  love  of  wine.  This 
earned  him  some  term  of  imprisonment  at  the  hands  of 
the  leaders  of  the  new  religion,  who  allowed  no  trifling  on 
the  point.  Finding  him  incorrigible.  Caliph  'Umar  sent 
him  away,  at  last,  to  the  Abyssinian  frontier,  where  he 
shortly  died.  He  was  a  brave  warrior,  as  he  proved  in 
the  Persian  war,  at  the  battle  of  Qadisiyya.  We  only 
possess  some  fragments  of  his  Bacchic  verse. 

Jarwal  ibn  Aus  had  been   surnamed  the   Dwarf,  Al- 


THE    KORAN  45 

Hutai'a.  He  was  one  of  the  masters  of  satire.  A 
wandering  troubadour,  going  from  tribe  to  tribe,  dwell- 
ing sometimes  with  the  Beni- Abs,  sometimes  with  other 
communities,  he  lived  on  the  gifts  bestowed  on  him  by 
the  rich  and  powerful,  either  to  reward  his  panegyrics, 
or  because  they  dreaded  his  bitter  attacks.  His  talent 
in  this  direction  stirred  up  such  hot  anger  wherever  he 
was  that  he  was  considered  a  dangerous  man,  whom 
Caliph  'Umar  was  obliged  to  put  in  prison  in  the 
interest  of  public  safety  and  the  general  peace.  Other 
poets,  like  Astr  Dhu'aib  of  the  Hudhailite  tribe,  had 
taken  service  in  the  conquering  army.  He  accompanied 
'Abdallah  ibn  Sa'd  into  Northern  Africa,  and  was  de- 
puted by  that  general  to  announce  the  taking  of  Carth- 
age to  the  Caliph  'Uthman.  He  suffered  the  misfor- 
tune of  seeing  his  five  sons  swept  away  by  the  plague 
in  Egypt,  and  devoted  an  elegy  to  this  sad  memory. 

With  ABt>'L-AsWAD  AL-Du'ALt  we  forsake  the  desert, 
for  he  was  a  town-dweller,  a  well-known  citizen  of 
Bassora,  remarkable  for  the  political  part  he  played  in 
connection  with  the  Caliph  'Alt,  whose  partisan  he 
was ;  he  fought  at  his  side  through  that  long  battle  of 
Siffin,  which  was  the  prelude  to  the  misfortunes  of  the 
'Alids.  To  him  is  ascribed  the  invention  of  the  Arabic 
grammar,  and  this  has  brought  him  a  certain  renown, 
which  casts  a  reflected  gleam  on  his  poetry,  itself  some- 
what mediocre  in  quality.  Critics  regard  the  origin 
of  the  poems  ascribed  to  Abu  Talib,  Mahomet's  uncle, 
as  doubtful,  and  are  still  more  convinced  of  this  as 
regards  those  bearing  the  name  of  the  Caliph  'Ali. 
The  Shi'ite  tendencies  of  these  last  quickly  convinced 
students  that  they  were  composed,  at  some  uncertain 
time,  to  serve  the  interests  of  the' Alids. 


CHAPTER   IV 

THE  OMEYYAD  DYNASTY 

t 

The  successful  revolt  of  Mu'awiya  and  the  final  dis- 
appearance of  the  Medina  Caliphate,  whereby  the 
capital  of  the  new  Empire  was  removed  from  the  Arabian 
deserts  to  Damascus,  a  locality  naturally  inheriting  an 
ancient  Greco-Syrian  civilisation,  robbed  the  nomad 
tribes  of  their  predominant  position,  and  conferred  it  on 
the  dwellers  in  towns.  In  literary  matters,  we  find  the 
poets  of  this  second  period  still  sacrificing,  in  clumsy 
imitation,  on  the  altar  of  the  Qasida,  the  ancient  Bedouin 
ode.  But  we  find,  at  the  same  time,  an  ample  harvest 
of  occasional  poems,  inspired  by  all  the  unexpected 
incidents  of  the  political  life  of  the  new  Empire.  'Umar 
IBN  ABt  Rabi'A  was  of  the  tribe  of  Quraish,  to  which 
Mahomet  belonged,  but  which  had  not  hitherto  produced 
any  poet.  His  father  was  a  merchant,  who  had  been 
sent  by  the  Prophet  to  rule  one  of  the  southern  pro- 
vinces of  the  Peninsula,  a  duty  which  he  performed  till 
the  death  of  'Umar,  and  it  may  be  even  under  Caliph 
Uthman.  He  finally  returned  to  his  native  country, 
and  there  the  youthful  poet  grew  to  manhood.  He 
never  left  the  town  till  his  death,  except  when  he  was 
taken,  as  a  prisoner,  to  Damascus,  and  did  not  play  any 
part  in  the  wars  waged  by  the  Moslems  on  the  frontiers 

of  their   growing   Empire.      A  rich  man    and   an   idle, 

46 


THE    OMEYYAD    DYNASTY  47 

he  found  opportunities  of  extolling  the  charms  of  many 
fair  ladies,  two  princesses  of  the  reigning  house  amongst 
them.  His  love  affairs  brought  him  into  bad  odour 
with  the  Caliph  of  Damascus, 'Uniar  H.,  who  had  him 
bound  with  chains  and  brought  into  his  presence,  to- 
gether with  his  friend  Al-Ahwas.  Al-Ahwas  was 
banished  to  the  Isle  of  Dahlak,  in  the  Red  Sea,  and 
'Umar  ibn  Abi  Rabi'a  was  forced  to  take  an  oath  to 
forswear  his  art,  an  oath  he  probably  found  it  easy 
enough  to  keep,  seeing  he  had  already  reached  his 
seventieth  year.  He  died,  indeed,  soon  after,  about  the 
year  719,  possibly  by  shipwreck,  but  this  fact  is  not  well 
established.  His  poems,  set  to  music,  and  popularised 
by  professional  singers,  made  their  way  all  over  the 
Arab  world. 

In  his  turn,  Abdallah  ibn  Qais  al-Ruqayyat  dis- 
tinguished himself  by  the  share  he  took  in  the  attempts 
of  'Abdallah  ibn  Zubair  to  obtain  the  Caliphate.  He 
accompanied  'Abdallah's  brother,  Musab,  to  Ir^q,  of 
which  country  he  had  just  been  appointed  governor,  bore 
him  company  in  the  disastrous  battle  in  which  Musab 
lost  his  life  (690),  hid  himself  for  a  year  after  it,  and  then 
returned  to  Medina.  Caliph  Abdal-Malik  pardoned 
him,  but  did  not  give  him  back  the  pension  he  had 
formerly  enjoyed.  Amongst  other  poets  belonging  to 
Medina  at  this  .period,  we  may  mention  Qais  ibn  Dharih, 
foster-brother  to  Husain,  'Ali's  unhappy  son,  martyred  at 
Kerbela,  who  loved  a  certain  Lubna,  and  made  her  name 
so  famous  by  his  verse  that  in  later  days  every  poem  in 
which  the  name  of  Lubni  figured  was  ascribed  to  him. 
The  same  thing  happened  in  the  case  of  the  celebrated 
Majnljn,  the  madman  of  the  tribe  of  Beni-Amir,  whose 
real  name  was  Qais  ibn  Mulawwah.     His  passion   for 


48  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

the  lovely  Laila  had  crazed  his  brain,  and  his  adven- 
tures served  the  Persian  poets  as  subjects  with  which 
to  embroider  the  canvas  of  their  mystic  poems.  Jamil 
ibn  'Abdallah  loved  Buthaina,  even  as  Kuthayyir  loved 
Azza  the  Bedouin.  The  last-named  poet  belonged  to 
the  Shi'ite  sect  of  the  Kaisaniyya,  in  spite  of  which  he  was 
well  received  at  Damascus  by  'Abdal-Malik.  Within 
the  walls  of  the  city  also  dwelt  at  that  time  a  singer,  of 
Persian  origin,  named  Jonas  (Yunus),  and  surnamed 
Katib  (the  secretary),  who  had  learnt  music  from 
Suraij  ibn  Muhriz  and  Al-Gharid.  Caliph  Walid,  the 
son  of  Yazid,  brought  him  from  Syria  when  he  ascended 
the  throne  in  742.  This  singer  was  an  author  too,  and 
wrote  a  Book  of  Songs  which  was  the  original  model 
of  the  famous  Kitdb  al-aghdni  of  Abu'l-Faraj  al- 
Isfahani. 

In  the  person  of  Al-Akhtal,  the  Omeyyads  found  the 
special  bard  of  their  brave  deeds.  He  was  a  Christian, 
of  the  tribe  of  Taghlib,  which  had  originally  belonged  to 
Najd,  but  was  then  settled  in  Mesopotamia.  His  name 
was  Ghiyath.  Akhtal  means,  "  one  whose  ears  are  flabby 
and  hang  down."  Was  the  poet  really  afflicted  with  a 
blemish  of  this  kind  ?  If  so,  his  enemies  would  not 
have  failed  to  mock  at  it,  and  they  never  did  so.  Other 
authorities  aver  that  the  word  should  be  taken  to  mean 
"  chatterer,"  a  signification  it  does  also  possess. 

While  quite  young,  Al-Akhtal  attacked  the  reputation 
of  Ka'b  ibn  Juail,  a  member  of  his  own  tribe,  and  the 
recognised  poet  of  the  nation,  and  the  two  waged  a  war 
of  epigrams.  He  lost  his  mother,  LailA,  at  an  early  age, 
and  had  to  endure  persecution  from  a  cruel  step-mother, 
who  set  him  laborious  tasks,  and  sent  him  out  to  herd 
the  goats  :  he  avenged  himself  by  tricking  her  out  of  a 


THE    OMEYYAD    DYNASTY  49 

jar  of  milk  and  some  dried  fruit.  Al-Akhtal's  religion 
was  one  of  purely  formal  and  external  observances.  He 
wore  a  cross  on  his  breast,  and  kept  it  there  even  within 
the  Omeyyad  Palace  at  Damascus,  when  the  favour  of 
the  princes  of  that  family  called  him  thither.  He  occa- 
sionally endured  somewhat  severe  penances,  as  when  the 
priest  of  his  tribe  took  him  by  the  beard  and  trounced 
him.  Caliph  'Abdal-Malik,  though  he  cared  httle  for 
religion,  tried  to  convert  him  to  the  Moslem  faith.  "  I 
consent,"  quoth  the  poet,  "  if  I  am  allowed  to  drink  wine 
and  exempted  from  fasting  in  Ramadan  1  "  and  he  wrote 
the  lines :  "  Never  will  I  go  braying  like  an  ass,  '  Come  to 
prayers,'  but  I  will  go  on  drinking  the  kindly  liquor,  and 
prostrating  myself  when  the  sun  rises."  The  last  line  is 
interesting,  because  it  shows  that  the  ancient  primitive 
Christian  habit  of  gathering  themselves  together  and 
turning  towards  the  rising  sun  was  still  in  force  amongst 
the  Arabs  of  the  Taghlib  tribe,  in  the  eighth  century. 

Ka'b  ibn  Juail  bore  Al-Akhtal  no  malice  on  account 
of  his  epigrams,  for  he  it  was  who  recommended  him  to 
Yazid,  son  of  Mu  awiya,  when  he  was  seeking  a  poet  to 
compose  diatribes,  which  were  to  be  diffused  about  the 
deserts,  and  carried  by  the  singers  through  all  the  towns 
of  the  Peninsula,  thus  serving  the  political  ends  of  the 
Omeyyads,  and  withdrawing  the  affections  of  the  popu- 
lace from  the  Ansars,  men  of  Medina  who  had  been  the 
Prophet's  first  defenders.  Yazid's  protection  saved  him 
from  the  spites  stirred  by  his  violent  language. 

A  subject  of  frequent  argument  at  the  Omeyyad  Court 
was  the  relative  merits  of  the  three  poets,  Akhtal,  Feraz- 
daq,  and  Jarir.  The  princes  would  amuse  themselves  by 
making  their  courtiers  pronounce  an  opinion,  and  the 
courtiers,  who  dreaded  the  vengeance  of  the  two  poets 


so 


ARABIC    LITERATURE 


who  must  be  passed  over  if  the  palm  was  awarded  to  the 
third,  would  get  out  of  the  difficulty  by  taking  refuge  in 
generalities.  "  Jarir  draws  water  from  a  well,"  said  one; 
"  Ferazdaq  hews  out  of  the  rock  ;  as  for  Akhtal,  he  excels 
in  eulogy  and  in  heroic  verse." 

In  later  days,  under  the  'Abbasids,  when  passions 
had  cooled,  grammarians  ended  by  preferring  Akhtal, 
because  his  verses  were  more  finished  and  correct,  and 
because  he  had  been  able  to  produce  the  largest  number 
of  poems  of  a  certain  length  which  are  irreproachable, 
from  beginning  to  end,  both  in  subject  and  in  form. 
The  qualities  most  valued  in  his  work  are  fulness  of 
afflatus  and  purity  of  expression.  We  are  told  nothing 
as  to  the  loftiness  of  his  inspiration.  But  one  famous 
line,  which  Harun  al-Rashid  loved  to  recall,  proves  the 
nobility  of  the  moral  sentiments  he  enunciated.  It 
occurs  in  his  ode  addressed  to  the  Caliph  'Abdal- 
Malik,  in  which,  speaking  of  the  Omeyyads,  he  says  : 
"Terrible  in  their  rage  if  they  are  withstood,  they  are 
the  most  clement  of  men  when  victory  is  won." 

While  Akhtal's  fame  was  spreading  over  Mesopotamia 
and  Syria,  the  renown  of  the  two  other  poets,  Jarir  and 
Ferazdaq,  was  growing  in 'Iraq. 

Ferazdaq  was  a  pious  and  fervent  Moslem,  entirely 
devoted  to  the  Prophet's  family,  and  with  it  all  a  cynic, 
a  libertine,  whose  sport  it  was  to  attack  women's  honour, 
who  made  vile  use  of  the  terror  his  ribald  verse  inspired, 
while  he  himself  was  a  mean  coward,  more  timorous  than 
a  sparrow,  spiteful  and  vindictive.  Such  was  the  shabby 
nature  of  this  great  poet.  His  name  was  Hammam,  and 
he  belonged  to  the  tribe  of  Tamim.  He  was  born  at 
Bassora  towards  641.  Caliph  'All  advised  him  to  learn 
the  Koran  instead  of  running  after  poetry,  and  the  young 


THE    OMEYYAD    DYNASTY  51 

man  is  said  to  have  fastened  chains  to  his  own  feet  until 
he  got  the  sacred  Hnes  by  heart.  But  his  father's 
death  soon  brought  back  all  his  poetic  instincts.  The 
hatred  of  the  Beni-Nahshal  drove  him  into  exile.  He 
betook  himself  to  Kufa  and  Medina,  vi^here  he  was 
kindly  treated  by  Sa'id  ibn  al- As.  His  imprudent  boast, 
in  one  of  his  poems,  that  he  had  entered  the  precincts  of 
a  harem  by  means  of  a  rope-ladder,  stirred  the  rage  of 
the  worthy  pharisees  of  Medina.  He  was  banished  by 
Marwan,  and  would  have  settled  at  Mecca  if  the  death 
of  his  enemy  Ziyad,  Governor  of  'Iraq,  had  not  made  it 
possible  for  him  to  rejoin  his  tribe.  His  adventures  with 
his  cousin  Nawar  (whom  he  married,  who  sought  to 
divorce  him,  and  who  could  find  no  one  to  bear  witness 
for  her  before  the  judge,  so  great  was  the  dread  of  the 
poet's  satires,  who  took  refuge  with'Abdallah  ibn  Zubair, 
the  Medina  pretender,  and  at  last  obtained  her  hus- 
band's consent  to  a  separation)  have,  like  his  strife  with 
his  adversary  Jarir,  been  the  subject  of  many  poems. 

He  died  of  a  skin  disease,  contracted  during  a  desert 
journey,  towards  the  year  728.  He  was  a  determined 
supporter  of  the  rights  of  the  'Alids,  and  the  verses 
in  which  he  acclaimed  Zain  al-'Abidin,  'All's  grandson, 
brought  him  to  a  dungeon.  Ferazdaq  was  then  a  man 
of  seventy.  But  satire  is  his  special  field,  and  it  must  be 
acknowledged  that  in  it  he  knew  no  limit,  whether  of 
decency  or  honour  ;  and  further,  that  he  was  constantly 
and  immoderately  guilty  of  a  sin  with  which  Arab  writers 
are  frequently  charged — that  of  shamelessly  stealing  lines 
from  his  neighbours'  compositions.  He  was  a  plagiarist, 
forcing  his  competitors  to  leave  him  in  possession  of  lines 
that  took  his  fancy,  and  below  which  he  wrote  his  own 
name. 


52  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Born  in  the  Hijaz,  Kuthayyir  was  famous  for 
his  eccentricities.  He  was  a  partisan  of  the  'Alids, 
and  professed  the  most  extreme  reHgious  views.  His 
absurd  affectations  had  won  him  the  surname  of  "Anti- 
christ." He  was  very  short,  too,  which  gave  food  for 
the  scoffers'  jeers.  There  was  a  joke — it  was  Akhtal  who 
first  retailed  it — that,  when  he  moved  from  the  Hijaz 
into  Syria,  he  had  been  starved  and  numbed  by  the — 
relative — chilHness  of  the  last-named  country. 

But  JarIr,  of  Yamama,  in  the  south  of  Najd,  was  the 
popular  favourite.  He,  too,  was  of  the  tribe  of  Tamim. 
He  dwelt  in  'Iraq,  and  had  opportunities  of  extolling 
Al-Hajjaj,  the  terrible  governor  of  that  province,  at 
whose  severity  all  men  trembled.  But  the  favour  of 
the  Omeyyad  princes  was  not  bestowed  on  him  ;  Akhtal 
had  prejudiced  'Abdal-Malik  against  him.  He  had  to 
wait  till  Umar  II.  ascended  the  throne  before  seeing 
himself  preferred  before  his  rivals.  He  was  a  mighty 
fighter,  and  his  life  was  spent  in  poetic  tournaments. 
The  most  famous  of  these  was  that  with  Ferazdaq,  who 
was  backed  by  Akhtal.  'Ubaid,  who  was  called  "the 
camel-herd,"  because  he  had  written  five  lines  describing 
these  creatures,  the  nomad's  inseparable  comrades,  had 
sided  with  Ferazdaq.  Jarir  could  not  forgive  him,  and 
poured  sarcasms  upon  him  till  he  drove  him  out  of 
Bassora,  and  turned  the  anger  of  his  own  tribe  against 
him.  Jarir  and  Ferazdaq  died  in  the  same  year,  728. 
The  first-named  poet  had  returned  to  his  own  tribe,  the 
Yamama,  towards  the  end  of  his  life. 

At  the  same  period,  Ghailan  ibn  'Uqba,  surnamed 
DHtr'L-RuMMA,  was  carrying  on,  though  with  lowered 
vitality,  the  tradition  of  the  desert  poets.  Ferazdaq 
complained    that   he   was    too    fond,    like   the   ancient 


THE    OMEYYAD    DYNASTY  53 

authors,  of  descriptions  of  forsaken  encampments,  of 
camels,  and  the  bird  called  qatd.  He  himself,  indeed, 
admitted  that  his  comparisons  might  go  on  for  ever. 
Nevertheless,  his  poems  were  long  held  in  high  admira- 
tion by  the  philologists,  more  especially,  perhaps,  on 
account  of  the  uncommon  words  occurring  in  them. 

Beside  these  poets  who  carried  on  the  classic  tradi- 
tion of  the  long  rhythmic  recitations,  we  find  the 
simplest  of  prosodic  metres,  the  rafaz,  suddenly  spring- 
ing into  considerable  importance,  and  rising  as  high  as 
its  fellows  in  the  popular  estimation.  The  rajaz,  de- 
spised by  the  heathens,  looked  on  as  a  sort  of  cadenced 
prose,  only  fit,  at  its  best,  for  improvisations,  had  been 
softened  and  transformed  by  Al-Aghlab  ibn  'Umar  ibn 
Ubaida,  who  fell  fighting  gallantly  at  the  Battle  of 
Nehawend  in  641,  and  reached  its  full  development  in 
the  work  of  Abu  Najm  al-Fadl  ibn  Qudama  al-Tjli,  the 
friend  of  the  Caliph  Hisham,  Al-Ajjaj,  and  his  son 
Ru'ba. 

The  funeral  elegies  written  by  a  woman,  Laila  AL- 
Akhyaliyya,  are  famous,  more  especially  those  devoted 
to  the  memory  of  Tauba  ibn  al-Humayyir,  who  loved 
her,  and  suffered  the  anguish  of  seeing  her  married  by 
her  father  to  a  stranger,  a  mean  and  jealous  fellow,  who 
beat  her.  The  story  goes  that  one  night,  sick  of  ill 
treatment,  she  called  an  unknown  guest  who  had  joined 
the  tribe  at  nightfall ;  that  he  came,  under  cover  of  the 
darkness,  struck  the  husband  three  or  four  hearty  blows 
across  the  shoulders  with  a  stick,  and  departed,  the 
poetess  having  prevented  his  further  interference  in  the 
domestic  broil.  He  went  away  unrecognised,  and  was 
never  seen  again.  Laila  saved  her  friend  from  many 
ambushes  prepared  for  him  by  jealous  rivals.     He  was 


54  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

true  to  her  till  his  death,  which  took  place  in  an  inter- 
tribal quarrel  in  704.  The  celebrity  won  by  these 
touching  compositions  encouraged  their  authoress  to 
persevere.  She  paid  visits  to  princely  courts,  vi^aited 
on  Caliph 'Abdal-Malik,  and  on  the  Governor  of 'Iraq, 
Al-Hajjaj,  to  whom  she  offered  eulogies.  She  died  in 
707,  while  on  her  way  to  visit  her  cousin,  Qutaiba  ibn 
Muslim,  the  Moslem  general  then  governing  the  province 
of  Khurasan.  Al-Khansa  is  the  only  Arab  poetess  who 
can  be  considered  her  superior.  She  was  a  tall  woman 
with  great  black  eyes.  .Laila  waged  a  war  of  epigrams 
with  Nabigha  al-Ja'di,  who  hotly  answered  her,  con- 
cerning the  attacks  of  a  certain  Sawar  ibn  Aufa,  called 
Ibn  al-Haya,  after  his  mother,  who  had  spoken  evil  in 
his  verses  of  the  tribe  of  Azd.  Nabigha  had  replied, 
and  all  this  happened  at  Ispahan.  The  verses  circulated 
through  the  desert,  and  the  censured  tribes  threatened 
an  appeal  to  the  Governor  of  Medina,  or  even  to  the 
Caliph. 

Amongst  the  desert  poets  who  were  Christians  must 
be  mentioned  'Abdallah  ibn  al-Mukhariq,  called  the 
Nabigha  of  the  Beni-Shaiban,  who  swore  by  the  Gospels, 
the  monks,  and  all  the  usual  Christian  oaths.  He  was 
fond  of  leaving  his  Syrian  steppes  to  recite  his  well-paid 
eulogies  in  the  presence  of  the  Caliphs  at  Damascus. 
'Abdal-Malik  and  Walid  were  his  patrons.  Hisham,  on 
the  contrary,  could  not  endure  him,  and  kept  him  at  a 
distance.  The  poem  beginning  "  Mine  eyes  have  shed 
tears  ...  at  the  sight  of  the  traces  left  at  Hafir  .  .  . 
dying  away  in  solitude  .  .  .  sorrowful  like  the  verses  of 
the  Psalms,"  long  maintained  its  popularity.  'Umair  ibn 
Shuyaim,  of  the  tribe  of  Taghlib,  and  nephew  to  Al- 
Akhtal,  was  another  Christian,  but  he  eventually  turned 


THE    OMEYYAD    DYNASTY  55 

Moslem.  He  was  called  Al-Qutami,  the  Sparrow-hawk, 
on  account  of  a  simile  which  he  had  rendered  famous, 
and  also  Sari'  al-Ghawani — the  victim  of  the  fair — an  ex- 
pression of  his  own  invention,  and  on  which  Muslim  in 
later  days  conferred  celebrity.     He  died  in  728. 

Beside  these  poets  we  must  also  place  AshA  Hamdan, 
a  Koran-reader  and  lawyer,  belonging  to  Kflfa,  who 
forsook  his  legal  studies  to  declaim  poetry,  and  fought 
against  the  heathens  of  Dailam,  among  the  mountains 
south-west  of  the  Caspian  Sea.  He  fell  into  their  hands 
as  a  prisoner  of  war,  was  saved  by  the  love  of  a  young  girl 
of  that  country,  and  took  up  the  cause  of  'Abdal-Kahman 
ibn  al-Ash'ath,  who  had  ventured  to  proclaim  the  depo- 
sition of  'Abdal-Malik,  and  whom  some  held  to  be  the 
Qahtanid  expected  by  the  Moslems  as  a  precursor  of  the 
Last  Judgment,  but  who  was  vanquished  by  Al-Hajjaj 
in  702.  The  poet  shared  his  leader's  sad  fate.  Herded 
with  a  crowd  of  other  prisoners,  he  was  put  to  death  by 
the  terrible  Governor  of  Traq,  who  could  not  forgive 
the  imprudent  attacks  he  had  made  on  him  in  his 
poems.  Ahmad  al-Nasibi,  with  whom  he  had  entered 
into  bonds  of  brotherhood,  after  the  fashion  of  the 
desert  Arabs,  was  a  musician,  who  sang  the  lines 
written  by  his  friend. 

Al-Hajjaj  had  a  sister,  Zainab,  who  was  beloved 
by  Numairi  of  Ta'if,  a  writer  of  erotic  stanzas.  But  the 
governor  thought  the  poet's  praise  compromised  the 
reputation  of  his  family,  and  Numairi  had  to  seek  refuge 
with  the  Caliph  of  Damascus.  Zainab,  who  had  been 
sent  to  the  same  city  at  the  time  of  Al-Ash'ath's  revolt, 
died  there  of  an  accident — a  fall  from  her  mule.  Nu- 
mairi found  consolation  in  singing  elegies  over  her 
tomb. 


S6  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

The  Moslem  Conquest  had  given  a  huge  ascendency 
to  the  Arab  tongue,  and  literary  efforts  by  men  whose 
native  language  was  not  Arabic  were  already  beginning 
to  appear.  It  would  be  impossible,  were  it  only  on 
account  of  his  surname,  Al-A'^jam,  not  to  recognise 
the  Persian  origin  of  ZiYAD  IBN  SULAIMAN,  who  was 
"client"  of  an  Arab  tribe  (by  client  must  be  under- 
stood either  a  freed  slave  or  a  man  who  voluntarily 
lived  under  the  aegis  of  a  patronage  which  raised  him 
above  the  singular  humiliations  which  were  the  lot,  at 
that  period,  of  a  vanquished  foe,  even  of  one  who  had 
embraced  the  Moslem  faith)  dwelling  at  Persepolis,  was 
born,  according  to  some,  at  Ispahan,  and  died  in  Khu- 
rasan in  689.  His  funeral  eulogium  of  Muhallab  ibn 
Abi  Sufra  won  universal  praise.  "Tell  the  caravans 
that  valour  and  generosity  have  been  buried  at  Merv,  in 
the  clearest  fashion."  His  poetic  talent  rose  above  an 
inconvenient  impediment  in  his  speech.  He  was  accused 
of  pronouncing  like  a  peasant.  He  could  not  articulate 
the  letter  Ain — the  peculiar  onomatopoeia  of  the  Arab 
tongue,  which  reproduces  the  grunt  of  the  camel  as 
it  is  being  loaded — pronounced  the  sad  or  emphatic  s 
wrong,  and  could  not  produce  the  guttural  h  at  all. 

Another  Persian  who  became  an  Arab  poet  was 
Ismail  ibn  Yasar,  a  client  of  an  Arab  tribe,  and  a 
partisan  of  the  Zubairids.  He  accompanied  'Urwa, 
the  son  of  Zubair,  on  his  journey  to  the  court  of  the 
Caliph  Walid,  and  wrote  an  elegy  on  the  death  of 
his  patron's  son,  who  fell  off  a  roof  among  a  drove  of 
horses,  and  was  kicked  to  death  by  them.  Later  he 
paid  a  second  visit  to  Walid,  when  the  Caliph  was 
at  the  Syrian  Rusafa,  built  to  the  west  of  Raqqa  by 
Hisham.      There,    and    during    that   prince's    time,    he 


THE    OMEYYAD    DYNASTY  57 

began  chanting  the  praises  of  the  Persians  instead  of 
extolling  his  host.  The  Caliph  fell  into  a  violent 
rage  and  had  him  thrown  into  a  pond,  out  of  which 
he  was  dragged  half  dead,  and  banished  to  the  Hijaz. 
He  had  two  brothers,  Muhammad  and  Ibrahim,  both 
of  them  poets,  and  descended  from  slaves  taken  in  the 
province  of  Fars.  Ismail  is  the  earliest  instance  of 
these  ShuAbiyya,  fanatical  adherents  of  their  own  race, 
who,  notwithstanding  their  Arab  education,  openly  de- 
clared themselves  to  be  of  a  different  origin  from  that 
of  their  barbarous  conquerors. 

Amongst  other  poets  of  foreign  birth  whom  the 
ascendency  of  the  conquering  race  and  of  the  desert 
bards  converted  to  the  language  of  the  Koran,  we  must 
not  omit  to  mention  Abu  'Ata  Aflah  ibn  Yasar.  His 
father  was  an  Indian  from  the  banks  of  the  Indus. 
The  chances  of  life  so  fell  out  that  the  child  was  born 
at  Kufa,  but  he  never  spoke  Arabic  well,  a  remark 
we  have  already  made  as  to  the  Persians  who  had 
adopted  the  dominant  tongue.  He  was  the  chartered 
panegyrist  of  the  Omeyyads,  and  was  obliged  to  direct 
the  shafts  of  his  satire  against  the  'Abbasids.  He 
lived  long  enough  to  see  these  last— victors,  thanks  to 
the  help  of  the  Persian  Shi'ites — found  the  city  of  Bagdad 
on  the  banks  of  the  Tigris,  for  his  death  only  occurred 
when  Mansur  was  Caliph  in  774.  So  faulty  was  his 
pronunciation  that  he  was  obliged  to  have  his  stanzas 
recited  by  a  Barbary  slave  who  had  a  fine  voice.  The 
eulogies  he  offered  to  Mansur  were  not  well  received 
by  that  Caliph,  who  could  not  forget  that  he  had 
written  verses  mourning  the  death  of  Nasr  ibn  Sayyar, 
the  adversary  of  Abu  Muslim.  The  poet,  thus  repulsed 
by  the  'Abbisid  prince,  took  vengeance  on  him  in  his 
5 


58  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

satires,  jeering  at  the  decree  whereby  the  populace  was 
commanded  to  dress  in  black,  the  chosen  colour  of 
the  'Abbasids. 

The  Caliph  Walid  was  a  poet,  a  musical  composer, 
and  a  singer.  A  born  artist,  he  early  plunged  into  the 
greatest  excesses,  and  drank  wine  during  his  pilgrimage 
to  Mecca.  He  lost  the  affection  of  the  people,  and  was 
killed  by  the  Yemenites  in  742,  just  a  year  after  the 
death  of  his  uncle  Hisham.  He  modelled  his  drink- 
ing songs  on  the  works  of  'Adi  ibn  Zaid,  and  his  suc- 
cessor in  this  line  was  the  great  poet,  Abu  Nuwas. 
This  Caliph,  brilliant  though  he  was,  and  full  of  showy 
qualities,  necessarily  displeased  the  Moslems  by  his 
shameless  debauchery,  and  they  accused  him  of  hav- 
ing entered  into  a  compact  with  Persian  teachers,  and 
of  being  a  secret  believer  in  their  faith.  He  composed 
numerous  airs,  could  play  the  lute,  mark  the  rhythm 
on  cymbals,  and  walk  in  cadenced  step  to  the  sound 
of  the  tambour — he  denied  this,  it  is  true,  and  forbade 
his  comrades  to  speak  of  it.  At  Mecca  his  chief  care 
was  to  send  for  the  best  singer  of  the  locality,  Yahya, 
surnamed  the  Elephant  {Fil),  and  take  lessons  from 
him.  Yahya,  transported  with  admiration,  besought 
the  Caliph  to  receive  him  amongst  his  followers,  so 
that  he  might  profit  by  the  teaching  of  a  renowned 
artist,  whom  he  acknowledged  his  superior. 

Al-Kumait  was  acquainted  with  the  different  Arabic 
dialects,  and  knew  the  history  of  the  various  Arab  wars. 
He  was  a  fierce  partisan  of  the  Mudar  tribes,  celebrated 
their  exploits,  and  scoffed  at  the  southern  tribes.  He 
had  attached  himself  to  the  family  of  Hashim,  descended 
from  the  Prophet,  and  to  it  his  finest  panegyrics  are 
addressed.     His  friendship  with  the  poet  Tirimmah  has 


THE    OMEYYAD    DYNASTY  59 

become  a  proverb,  and  was  all  the  more  phenomenal 
because  the  views  of  the  two  friends  were  diametrically 
opposed — Kumait  was  a  Shi'ite,  and  championed  the 
men  of  Kufa,  while  Tirimmah  was  a  Kharijite,  and 
supported  the  men  of  Damascus,  his  native  city.  "  How 
can  you  agree,"  it  was  asked,  "  seeing  you  differ  in  every 
respect?"  "We  have  one  thing  in  common,"  replied 
Kumait,  "our  hatred  of  the  vulgar."  Odi  profanum 
vulgus  et  arceo :  every  poet  is  an  aristocrat.  His  attacks 
on  the  reigning  dynasty  earned  him  arrest  and  imprison- 
ment at  the  hands  of  Hisham,  who  would  have  cut  out 
his  tongue  and  cut  off  his  hand  ;  but  he  was  saved  by 
the  devotion  of  his  wife,  who  lent  him  her  own  garments 
to  enable  him  to  escape  from  durance.  Maslama,  the 
Caliph's  son,  afterwards  obtained  the  poet's  pardon 
as  a  reward  for  a  funeral  eulogy  of  his  grandfather, 
Muawiya — which  is  asserted  to  have  been  really  impro- 
vised. He  died  a  violent  death  in  743 — killed  during 
a  riot  by  the  soldiery. 

At  this  period,  also,  flourished  a  very  remarkable 
man,  Hammad  ibn  Sabiir,  surnamed  Al-Rawiya,  or  the 
Quoter — because  his  extraordinary  memory  held  thou- 
sands of  ancient  Arab  stanzas  and  complete  poems.  To 
him  the  preservation  of  great  part  of  the  pre-Islamic 
poetry  is  due,  and  to  him  we  owe  the  collection  into  one 
volume  of  the  Muallaqat.  He  was  an  Iranian.  His 
father,  Sabilr  (Sapor),  who  was  taken  prisoner  in  war, 
belonged  to  that  redoubtable  race  of  the  Dailamites, 
which  braved  the  Arabs  and  maintained  its  inde- 
pendence in  the  inaccessible  mountains  of  Gilan,  and 
which  was  later,  under  the  name  of  Buwaihids,  to  seize 
Bagdad,  and  reduce  the  Caliph's  power  to  a  purely 
spiritual    sovereignty.      This    early    commentator    and 


6o  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

scholar,  whose  linguistic  blunders  bewrayed  his  foreign 
origin,  was  also  born  at  Kilfa.  The  favour  shown  him 
by  Yazid  had  displeased  Hisham.  When  he  succeeded, 
Hammad  was  fain  to  hide  himself  a  whole  year  in  his 
own  house,  never  leaving  it,  save  to  pay  secret  visits  to 
trusted  friends.  But  the  new  Caliph  soon  summoned 
him  to  Damascus.  He  is  said  to  have  died  either  in 
771  or  774.  His  learning  extended  over  the  legendary 
history  of  the  pre-lslamic  Arabs,  their  poetry,  their  gene- 
alogies, and  their  dialects.  He  could  distinguish  the 
ancient  from  the  modern  style  ;  he  boasted  that  he  could 
recite  long  odes,  belonging  to  the  heathen  times,  rhym- 
ing on  every  letter  of  the  alphabet.  He  was  a  living 
encyclopedia.  He  had  begun  by  being  a  thief  and  a 
rogue.  Some  verses  which  he  found  on  the  person  of 
a  man  he  had  robbed  in  the  middle  of  the  night  stirred 
his  vocation  in  him.  He  wrote  poetry  himself.  Al- 
Mufaddal  al-Dabbi  accused  him  of  interpolating  his 
own  lines  amongst  those  of  the  ancient  poets,  so  that 
it  was  impossible  to  detect  the  difference,  and  it  is  even 
said  that,  when  pressed  by  Caliph  Al-Mahdi,  Hammad 
confessed  his  fraud. 

History  first  makes  an  appearance  under  the  sway  of 
the  Omeyyads.  We  are  told  that  Ziyad,  brother  to 
Muawiya,  and  his  lieutenant,  wrote  a  book  on  the  pre- 
tensions of  the  Arab  families,  which  was  intended  to 
serve  as  a  weapon  in  the  hands  of  his  own  descendants, 
in  case  their  origin  should  be  attacked  (he  was  the  son  of 
Abu  Sufyan,  Mu  awiya's  father,  by  a  slave) ;  but  this  is 
by  no  means  a  certainty,  though  the  assertion  is  sup- 
ported by  the  authority  of  the  Fihrist.  'Abid  ibn 
Sharya  was  an  Arab  from  the  South  ;  he  was  summoned 
to  Damascus  from    Sana,  by    Muawiya,  to    whom  he 


THE    OMEYYAD    DYNASTY  6i 

used  to  recite  the  stories  of  the  kings  of  Yemen,  and 
biblical  legends,  as  also  did  Wahb  ibn  Munabbih  (638- 
728),  a  Jew  by  origin,  and  either  a  Moslem  convert,  or, 
possibly,  a  Sabian,  or  Christian  follower  of  St.  John 
Baptist.  His  surname,  Abnawi,  indicated  his  descent 
from  the  Persian  colony  left  in  Southern  Arabia  by  the 
troops  sent  by  Chosroes  I.  Antjshirwan  against  the 
Abyssinians.  He  played  an  important  part  in  the 
elaboration  of  Moslem  jurisprudence  and  theology, 
which  are  based,  after  the  Koran,  on  the  hadith,  or 
traditions  of  the  Prophet.  Wahb  was  one  of  the  most 
ancient  and  popular  of  the  traditionists.  He  was  born  at 
Dhimar,  near  San'a.  Abu  Mikhnaf  Lut  ibn  YahvS.  wrote 
three-and-thirty  treatises  on  different  persons  and  events. 
They  deal  more  especially  with  the  history  of  the  con- 
quest of  'Iraq,  a  subject  on  which  he  was,  in  the  earliest 
days,  the  uncontested  authority.     He  died  in  774. 

Muhammad  ibn  Muslim  al-Zuhri,  who  was  called  Ibn- 
Shihab,  after  one  of  his  ancestors,  was  one  of  the  learned 
men  who  devoted  themselves  to  the  study  of  the  tradi- 
tions of  Mahomet.  He  belonged  to  Medina,  but  was  not 
a  member  of  the  irreconcilable  party  which  regarded  the 
Omeyyads  of  Damascus  as  usurpers.  He  went  to  Syria, 
was  chosen  by  the  Caliph  Hisham  to  be  his  children's 
tutor,  and  became  a  magistrate  under  Yazid  II.  His 
connection  with  the  Omeyyad  dynasty  stirs  some  mis- 
trust as  to  the  tendency,  unconscious  no  doubt,  of  his 
theological  studies.  Caliph  'Umar  II.  sent  letters  into 
the  various  provinces  of  the  Empire,  recommending  that 
al-Zuhri  should  be  consulted  in  any  legal  difficulties, 
"for  no  man,"  he  says,  "is  better  acquainted  with  the 
customs  of  the  past  days."  When  at  home,  he  was  so 
absorbed  in  the  study  of  his  books  that  he  forgot  every- 


62  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

thing  else,  and  his  wife  one  day  exclaimed  :  "  These  books 
are  more  trying  to  me  than  the  three  other  wives  the  law 
permits  him,  though  he  has  but  one!"  He  died,  aged 
seventy-three,  on  his  farm  at  Adama,  in  Arabia,  between 
Syria  and  the  Hijaz. 

The  conquest  of  Syria,  and  the  selection  of  Damascus 
as  the  seat  of  the  capital,  had  brought  Moslems  and 
Christians  into  close  contact.  St.  John  of  Damascus, 
whose  father  was  received  at  the  court  of  'Abdal-Malik, 
wrote  a  defence  of  the  Christian  religion  against  the 
doctrine  of  Islam.  In 'Iraq,  the  great  theologian  Hasan 
Ba.sri,  who  died  in  728,  held  uncontested  sway  as  a 
doctrinal  instructor.  The  elegance  and  purity  of  his 
Arabic  are  famous  even  now.  He  had  been  singularly 
handsome,  but  he  fell  when  riding,  broke  his  nose, 
and  was  disfigured  for  life.  His  father,  who  lived  in 
Maisan,  was  made  a  prisoner  and  carried  into  slavery 
when  Khalid  conquered  that  province  in  633.  His 
disciple,  Wasil  ibn  'Ata,  left  him,  and  founded  the 
Mutazilite  school,  who  professed  a  kind  of  rationalism. 
He  had  a  burr  in  his  speech,  and  as  he  never  could 
correct  this  defect,  he  obliged  himself  to  avoid  all  words 
with  the  letter  r  in  them.  He  had  a  long  neck,  and  was 
somewhat  gibed  at  on  this  account.  He  died  in  748. 
But  the  theological  works  of  those  days  have  not  come 
down  to  us.  The  collection  of  the  Arab  proverbs  now 
began  to  attract  some  attention.  Prince  Khalid,  the 
son  of  Yazid,  practised  alchemy,  a  science  taught  him 
by  a  monk  of  the  name  of  Marianus.  He  wrote  three 
treatises,  the  first  of  which  deals  with  his  teacher  and 
the  instruction  he  bestowed  on  him. 


CHAPTER  V 

THE    'ABbAsIDS 

The  battle  of  the  great  Zab  was  the  Persians'  revenge 
on  the  Arabs^a  very  incomplete  revenge,  for  it  did  not 
come  till  a  whole  century  had  rolled  by,  and  by  that 
time  Persia  bore  indelible  marks  of  the  Arab  domina- 
tion, both  in  religion  and  in  language.  The  religious 
code  of  the  Sasanian  dynasty,  the  Avesta,  a  revival  of 
the  old  worship  of  Ahura-Mazda,  had  disappeared,  and 
was  only  preserved  round  the  very  few  fire-altars  the 
victors'  tolerance  still  permitted  to  exist.  The  Persian 
language  was  nothing  but  a  spoken  tongue ;  all  the 
literary  character  had  departed  from  it.  All  Persians 
now  wrote  in  Arabic,  and  so  strong  was  the  impression 
made  by  the  Semitic  tongue  that  it  has  maintained 
itself  to  this  day.  But  Persia  possessed  another  and  an 
intangible  force,  the  Aryan  genius,  the  powerful,  imagi- 
native, and  creative  mind  of  the  great  Indo-European 
family,  the  artistic,  philosophic,  and  intellectual  brain 
which,  from  this  period  onward,  so  mightily  affects 
Arab  literature,  enabling  it  to  develop  in  every  quarter 
of  the  Caliphs'  realms,  and  to  produce  that  enormous 
aggregate  of  works,  of  which  many,  no  doubt,  were  lost 
in  the  destruction  attending  the  Mongol  conquest.  But 
the  chief  specimens  have  been  preserved,  and  their 
effect  on  the  Europe  of  the  Middle  Ages  has  been  far 
greater  than  many  have  imagined. 

6% 


ARABIC    LITERATURE 

When  the  'Abbasids  founded  the  city  of  Bagdad, 
on  the  right  bank  of  the  Tigris,  they  seem  to  have 
sought  for  a  site  which  would  be  a  compromise 
between  the  Arab  creators  of  the  Caliphs'  Empire 
and  the  Persian  authors  of  the  revolution  which  had 
placed  the  sons  of  'Abbas  on  the  throne.  To  the  right 
of  the  Tigris  lies  Mesopotamia,  a  Semitic  country  from 
times  immemorial,  and  overrun,  since  the  fall  of  the 
ancient  empires,  by  the  nomad  Arabs.  To  the  left, 
Iranian  territory  begins  at  once.  The  very  name  of 
the  city  is  Persian,  and  signifies  given  by  God.  The 
Bagdad  of  the  Caliphs  now  lies  in  ruins— only  a  very 
small  number  of  the  buildings  remain  ;  modern  Bagdad, 
which  stands,  as  my  readers  are  aware,  on  the  left  bank 
of  the  Tigris,  being  still  inhabited  by  many  Persians. 

From  the  very  outset  of  the  eighth  century,  Persian 
influence  was  so  strong  in  political  matters  that 
Mansur  did  not  hesitate  to  rid  himself,  by  the  assas- 
sin's hand,  of  Abu  Muslim,  the  leader  who  had  over- 
thrown the  Omeyyad  dynasty,  just  as  Harun  al-Rashid, 
at  a  later  date,  rid  himself  of  the  Persian  Barmakides, 
who  had  supplied  him  with  two  powerful  ministers.  In 
literature,  this  Persian  influence  is  immense.  It  per- 
vades everything — poetry,  theology,  jurisprudence  :  the 
Arabs  had  ceased  to  write ;  all  posts,  administrative,  court, 
and  legal,  were  held  by  men  who  were  not  Arabs,  and 
the  same  applies  to  all  the  literature  of  the  time.  From 
this  period  onward,  Arabic  became  the  language,  and 
the  sole  language,  of  the  huge  Empire  of  the  Caliphs. 
But  it  was  Arabic  spoken  and  written  by  men  who  were 
Arabs  by  education,  not  by  blood.  All  races,  Persians, 
Syrians,  Berbers  from  Maghrib,  were  melted  and 
amalgamated  in  this  mighty  crucible.     The  most  Intel- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  65 

lectual  parts  of  this  medley  were  finally  to  recover  their 
identity ;  the  Persian  tongue,  which  was  never  to  drop 
the  cloak  cast  upon  it  by  the  Semite  domination,  was 
once  more  to  become  a  literary  language,  and  to  have 
the  glory  of  giving  birth  to  other  literatures,  such  as 
the  Ottoman-Turkish  and  the  Hindu  ;  but  in  the  west, 
Arabic  was  only  to  be  driven  out  of  Spain  together  with 
the  Moors,  and  the  Maghrib  was  to  keep  the  language  of 
its  conquerors,  now  become  its  native  idiom,  for  ever. 

Poetry  now  began  to  alter.  The  lengthy  qasidas  of 
the  desert,  held  up  as  models  for  students  by  the 
theorists,  found  no  more  original  exponents.  This  form 
was  doomed  to  servile  imitation,  and  hence  to  platitude. 
But  a  new  kind  of  poetry  appeared  on  the  banks  of  the 
Tigris,  whither  the  imperial  splendour  was  attracting 
the  most  brilliant  talents. 

A  family  from  Palestine  produced  MuTi'  IBN  AyAs. 
His  father  had  been  with  Al-Hajjaj  when  that  general 
went  into  the  province  of  Mecca  to  reduce  the  pre- 
tender 'Abdallah  ibn  Zubair  to  submission,  and  also 
when  he  defeated  another  pretender,  Ibn  al-Ash'ath, 
who  came  out  of  the  distant  land  of  Arachosia  and 
very  nearly  succeeded  in  overthrowing  the  Caliphate. 
Mutf  ibn  Ayis  himself  took  service,  first  of  all,  with 
Caliph  Walid  ibn  Yazid,  but  after  the  fall  of  the 
Omeyyads  he  appealed  to  Jafar,  son  of  Caliph 
Mansur,  who  took  him  into  his  service,  and  kept  him 
till  he  died,  thereby  greatly  displeasing  the  Caliph,  his 
father.  His  poems  are  marked  by  elegant  expression 
and  deep  feeling.  His  description  of  the  two  palm-trees 
at  Hulwan  would  in  itself  suffice  to  make  him  famous. 
Under  an  apparent  indifference  in  religious  matters,  he 
seems   to  have  concealed  heretical  leanings.     He   was 


66  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

accused  of  not  being  really  a  true  Moslem.  He  denied 
the  imputation  of  being  a  Zindiq  (Manichean),  but  he 
was  caught  in  the  act  of  reciting  suspicious  verses. 
Men  fought  shy  of  his  company,  for  he  was  a  debauchee. 
His  verses  were  very  loose.  One  day  he  told  a  woman 
she  was  just  as  fit  as  the  Caliph  Al-Mahdi  to  mount  the 
preacher's  pulpit,  which  caused  the  sovereign  to  laugh 
most  heartily. 

As  a  maker  of  jokes  and  court  jester,  we  must  glance 
at  ABtJ  DULAMA  Zand  ibn  al-Jaun,  an  Abyssinian  negro, 
who  had  fought  against  the  Omeyyads,  and  was  per- 
mitted to  entertain  the  Caliphs  Mansur  and  Mahdi. 
He  was  the  favourite  of  Mansur,  to  whom  he  cer- 
tainly rendered  good  service  by  praising  him,  in  a 
panegyric,  for  having  put  Abu  Muslim  to  death.  For 
the  populace  found  it  hard  to  understand  why  the  'Abba- 
sids  rewarded  the  great  general  who  had  set  them  on 
the  throne  in  such  ungrateful  fashion.  He  mocked  at 
the  Caliph's  order  that  his  subjects  should  wear  black, 
the  'Abbasids'  colour,  and  a  witty  sally  earned  him 
leave,  alone  of  all  the  population,  to  disregard  the  edict. 
When  Musa  ibn  Da'ud  made  his  pilgrimage  to  Mecca, 
he  promised  the  jester  10,000  drachmas  if  he  would  travel 
with  him.  Abu  Dulama  pocketed  the  cash  and  dis- 
appeared into  the  villages,  whither  he  went  to  drink 
wine.  Mdsa,  fearing  to  miss  the  pilgrimage  season, 
started  on  his  journey,  came  across  the  toper,  had  him 
bound  and  thrown  into  a  palanquin.  But  so  impudent 
were  the  fellow's  repartees  that  he  was  fain  to  get  rid 
of  him,  and  leave  him  to  spend  the  rest  of  the  money 
he  had  given  him.  Abu  Dulama  died  in  778.  He  sug- 
gested to  a  physician  to  whom  he  owed  money  for  curing 
his  son,  that,  to  secure  payment  of  the  debt,  he  should 


THE  'ABBASIDS  67 

bring  a  suit  against  a  certain  rich  Jew,  he  himself  offering 
to  bear  false  witness  to  prove  the  claim.  The  judge  well 
knew  the  real  value  of  the  demand,  but  such  was  his 
dread  of  the  negro's  wicked  tongue  that  he  preferred  to 
pay  the  sum  claimed  out  of  his  own  pocket.  Thus  Abu 
Dulima  got  his  doctoring  for  nothing.  One  day,  when 
he  had  alluded  in  verse  to  a  supposed  relationship  between 
himself  and  the  Caliph,  Al-Mahdi,  greatly  enraged,  in- 
quired to  whom  he  traced  this  kinship.  "To  Adam  and 
Eve,"  replied  the  jester,  and  the  Caliph  laughed.  It 
was  said  of  him  that  he  would  make  the  very  devil  laugh. 
Al-Mahdi  once  ordered  him,  on  pain  of  death,  to  satirise 
every  member  of  the  numerous  company  present.  Abil 
Dulama's  presence  of  mind  saved  him  in  this  hour  of 
peril.  He  attacked  himself,  called  himself  "  monkey-face, 
with  a  turban  upon  it,"  "  forerunner  of  the  Last  Judg- 
ment," with  other  amenities,  which  vastly  amused  the 
gathering.  On  another  occasion,  out  hunting,  the 
Caliph  killed  a  gazelle  with  an  arrow,  whilst  his 
companion,  'Ali  ibn  Sulaimin,  only  hit  one  of  the 
hounds,  which  died.  Abfi  Dulima  summed  up  the 
incident  in  comical  fashion.  "  The  Caliph  kills  a 
gazelle  and  'Ali  kills  a  dog  !  Bravo  !  Each  shall  feed 
on  the  provisions  he  has  provided  for  himself."  Where- 
upon Al-Mahdi  laughed  till  he  nearly  fell  out  of  his 
saddle. 

Bashshar  ibn  Burd  (693-783)  was  of  Persian,  and 
possibly  even  of  royal  race,  as  he  himself  asserted.  He 
was  born  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Bassora,  whither  his 
father  had  been  carried  into  slavery  ;  his  grandfather 
had  been  made  a  prisoner  of  war  in  Tukhiristan,  far 
away  in  Khurasan.  He  was  a  skilful  worker  in  clay, 
although  he  was  born  blind.     Later  in  life  he  obtained 


68  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

his  freedom  from  the  Arab  woman  whose  property  he 
was,  and  lived  partly  at  Bassora,  his  birthplace,  and  partly 
at  Bagdad.  He  made  the  acquaintance  of  the  theologian 
Wasil  ibn  'Ata,  the  founder  of  the  school  of  the  Mutazi- 
lites,  who  ascribed  the  demoralisation  of  Bassora  to  his 
poems,  and  remained  a  free-thinker.  He  had  broken 
through  the  rule  of  saying  his  prayers  five  times  a  day; 
he  was  really  a  Zindiq,  that  is  to  say  a  secret  believer 
in  the  Avesta,  while  preserving  the  outward  appearance 
of  Islamism.  He  was  always  a  suspected  man.  His 
panegyric  of  Caliph  Mahdi  saved  him  once.  The 
Caliph  contented  himself  with  forbidding  him  to  make 
any  mention  of  women  in  future  poems.  But  he  im- 
prudently wrote  against  the  minister  Yaqub  ibn  Da'ud, 
who  revenged  himself  by  the  infliction  of  seventy  lashes, 
and  of  these  the  poet  died  at  the  age  of  ninety. 

He  was  ugly,  for  besides  his  congenital  infirmity, 
which  had  left  him  with  two  pieces  of  red  flesh  instead 
of  eyes,  he  was  deeply  pitted  with  smallpox.  Bashshar 
held  the  element  of  Fire  to  be  superior  to  that  of  Earth, 
and  justified  Satan,  who  was  created  out  of  Fire,  for 
having  refused  to  bow  down  before  Adam,  who  was 
made  of  clay,  as  the  Koran  relates.  He  even  wrote  a 
stanza  which  strongly  betokens  his  Zoroastrian  views. 
"The  Earth  is  dark,  and  Fire  is  brilliant.  Ever  since 
it  has  existed  men  have  worshipped  it."  He  was  a 
misanthrope,  who  thanked  God  for  having  made  him 
blind,  "so  that  I  need  not  see  that  which  I  hate." 
When  he  was  about  to  recite  a  poem  he  would  clap  his 
hands,  cough,  and  spit  right  and  left.  But  when  once 
he  opened  his  mouth  he  won  the  admiration  of  his 
hearers.  He  had  begun  to  compose  verses  before  he 
was  ten   years   old,  and   boasted  that   he   had   known 


THE  'ABBASIDS  69 

Jarir,  and  had  even  satirised  him,  but  the  great  desert 
poet  had  thought  him  too  young  to  deserve  his  notice. 
"  If  he  had  answered  me,"  Bashshar  would  say,  "  I 
should  have  been  the  greatest  man  of  my  time."  What 
the  grammarian  Asma'i  thought  most  admirable  in  his 
work  was  that  his  lines  were  the  evident  production 
of  a  natural  genius,  which  would  not  submit  to  any 
lengthy  process  of  polishing  before  publication ;  they 
were,  so  to  speak,  almost  improvised.  When  the  poet 
was  questioned  as  to  the  source  of  his  purity  of  ex- 
pression he  ascribed  all  the  credit  to  the  old  men  and 
the  women  of  the  Bedouin  tribe  of  the  'Uqail,  with 
which  he  was  connected  as  a  freed  slave.  Yet  he  was 
accused  of  carrying  his  use  of  expletives  to  the  greatest 
excess  and  of  introducing  into  his  lines  names  of  men 
and  places  which  had  never  existed.  He  had  dubbed 
several  chambers  in  his  house  with  poetic  surnames, 
a  source  of  gentle  astonishment  to  the  uninitiated 
persons  to  whom  he  would  recount  their  beauties. 

Marwan  ibn  Ab!  Hafsa  (721-797)  was  the  son  of 
a  Khurasan  Jew  who  was  taken  by  Marwan  ibn  al- 
Hakam,  then  Governor  of  Medina,  to  Yamaraa  in 
Arabia,  as  tax-collector,  and  there  married  an  Arab 
woman  of  free  blood.  He  was  strangled  in  private 
vengeance  for  some  political  verses  directed  against 
the  claim  of  the  'Alids.  The  criminal's  confession- — 
he  himself  was  never  discovered — is  still  in  existence. 
Marwan  was  an  imitator  of  the  ancient  desert  poets. 
According  to  Ibn  Khallikan,  he  was  great-grandson 
to  Abu  Hafsa,  Marwan's  freedman,  whose  liberty 
had  been  granted  as  a  reward  for  service  rendered 
during  the  siege  of  Caliph  'Uthman's  house  at 
Medina-^he  had  saved   his   life.     Some   say  he  was   a 


70  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Jewish  physician  who  turned  Moslem.  But  at  Medina 
he  was  believed  to  have  been  the  freedman  of  Samaual, 
the  famous  Syrian  nobleman  and  poet.  We  are  also 
told  that  Abu  Hafsa  was  made  prisoner  when  Per- 
sepolis  was  taken  under  'Uthman.  As  for  Marwan, 
who  was  born  in  Yamama,  he  made  his  way  to  Bag- 
dad, composed  panegyrics  in  honour  of  Al-Mahdi  and 
Harun  al-Rashid,  and  wrote  satires  directed  against 
the  descendants  of  "All.  His  most  celebrated  work  is 
a  qasida,  rhymed  in  /,  in  praise  of  Ma'n,  son  of  Za'ida, 
Governor  of  Yemen,  in  which  he  lauds  his  inex- 
haustible generosity.  "When  a  favour  is  asked  of  him, 
Man  will  not  speak  the  word  No,  for  this  seems  a  for- 
bidden word  to  him."  The  poet  was  very  stingy,  and 
came  to  the  Caliph's  court  dressed  in  a  sheepskin  and 
the  coarsest  cotton  garments.  So  thrifty  was  he  that 
he  never  bought  any  meat  except  sheep's  heads,  and 
on  these  he  lived,  winter  and  summer  alike.  It  was 
of  him  that  the  line  was  written  :  "  Marwan  has  no  zeal 
for  pleasure  ;  the  only  jealousy  he  feels  concerns  the 
cooking-pots." 

Beside  the  work,  not  unattended  by  risk,  of  the 
poets  who  dedicated  their  powers  to  politics,  we  find  the 
far  more  kindly  productions  of  the  love  poet,  Abu'l- 
Fadl  al- Abbas  IBN  AL-Ahnaf,  a  descendant  of  Arab 
settlers  in  Khurasan,  allied  with  Iranian  families.  He 
was  a  comrade  of  Caliph  Harun  al-Rashid,  followed 
him  in  his  campaigns,  and  died  at  Bagdad  (807  or  813). 
The  grace  and  elegance  of  his  diction  made  him  the 
delight  of  men  of  taste.  He  was  a  man  of  fine  manners, 
with  nothing  of  the  debauchee  about  him.  Polished 
though  he  was,  he  never  went  beyond  writing  love 
poems.      He    was    no    artist     either    in    satire     or    in 


THE    ABBASIDS  71 

panegyric.  His  only  known  enemy  was  the  great 
Mu'tazilite  theologian,  Hudhail  al-AUaf,  who  accused 
him  of  having  written  a  stanza  affirming  the  doctrine 
of  predestination. 

But  the  most  famous  of  this  group,  beyond  all  con- 
tradiction, is  AbC  Nuwas,  the  lyric  and  Bacchic  poet 
par  excellence,  whose  works  have  been  studied  by 
Noldeke  and  Alfred  von  Kremer.  He  was  born  at  Al- 
Ahwiz  in  the  heart  of  Susiana  (about  756),  where  his 
mother,  of  Persian  origin,  laboured  as  a  washerwoman 
in  a  fuller's  yard.  But  it  was  at  Bassora  that  he  received 
the  teachings  of  his  master,  the  poet  Waliba,  who  made 
him  known  to  the  Barmakides,  and  had  cause,  later,  to 
regret  his  kindness,  by  reason  of  his  pupil's  ingratitude. 
He  spent  a  year  wandering  about  the  desert,  to  study  the 
pure  Bedouin  tongue.  At  Bagdad,  in  spite  of  his  loose 
life,  he  was  valued  by  the  Caliphs  Harun  and  Amin. 
When  he  grew  old,  he  relinquished  his  bad  habits,  and 
gave  himself  up  to  religious  observances.  His  jests 
about  a  member  of  the  Beni-Naubakht  clan  earned  him 
rough  treatment,  of  which  he  died,  about  810.  Ab{i 
Nuwas  practised  every  form  of  Arabic  poetry.  Not  only 
did  he  sing  the  praises  of  the  grape,  after  the  manner 
of  'Adi  ibn  2aid  and  Walid  ibn  Yazid.  Like  his  fore- 
runners, he  composed  elegies,  amatory  poems,  satires, 
panegyrics,  humorous  verses,  and  hunting  scenes,  in 
which  last  he  reproduced  the  style  of  the  ancient  and 
intrepid  hunters  of  the  desert,  and  he  also  wrote  the 
devout  poems  which  mark  the  last  stage  of  his  career. 
His  memory  was  extraordinary,  and,  what  is  no  less  re- 
markable, he  possessed  no  library.  Nothing  was  found 
after  his  death  save  a  book  cover,  within  which  lay 
a     manuscript     containing   notes    on     grammar.     The 


72  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Caliph  cast  him  into  prison,  and  the  poet  wrote :  "  If 
you  kill  Abu  Nuwas,  where  will  you  find  another  ? " 
The  only  woman  he  ever  really  loved  was  a  slave, 
Janan.  She  was  well  taught  and  witty,  learned  both 
in  history  and  poetry.  She  started  on  pilgrimage  to 
Mecca,  and  the  poet  followed  her.  There  it  was  that 
he  spoke  the  lines :  "  Do  you  not  see  that  I  spend 
my  life  in  pursuing  her — a  difficult  enterprise  ?  We 
made  the  pilgrimage  together.  This  journey  alone  it  was 
which  could  unite  us."  Janan  did  not  care  for  him  at 
first,  but  the  lover's  persistence  broke  down  the  severity  of 
the  cruel  fair  at  last.  He  was  the  first  poet  who  employed 
bold  metaphor  to  describe  the  different  parts  of  the  be- 
loved one's  person.  Amongst  others,  he  has  this  line : 
"She  taps  the  rose  with  jujubes" — that  is,  "her  cheek 
with  her  finger-tips."  Scenes  in  which  deep  drinkers, 
ever  athirst,  turn  deaf  ears  to  the  muezzin's  call  to  prayer, 
refusing  to  forsake  their  serious  business,  praise  of  good 
wine,  purchased  with  gold  from  Jew  or  Christian  mer- 
chant, and  grown  mellow  in  its  cobwebbed  jar,  the  heat 
of  which  cheers  and  warms  the  darkness  of  the  night — 
such  are  the  themes  of  Abu  Nuwas'  most  famous  poems. 
Here  and  there  we  catch  a  note  of  sadness,  a  sudden 
memory  of  past  days  and  comrades  now  no  more,  dark 
thoughts,  swiftly  washed  away  by  a  fresh  draught  of 
the  divine  juice. 

Muslim  ibn  el-Walid,  known  by  the  surname  of 
Sart  al-Ghawdni,  "the  victim  of  the  fair,"  which  had 
been  bestowed  on  him  by  Hirun  al-Rashid,  was  client 
of  a  family  of  Ansars  or  auxiliaries — otherwise  those 
dwellers  in  Medina  who  had  attained  noble  rank  by  their 
support  of  the  Prophet  against  his  enemies.  He  was 
born  at  Kiifa,  somewhere  between  747  and  757.      His 


THE  'ABBASIDS  7% 

father  was  a  weaver,  and  Ibn  Qanbar  later  cast  cruel 
reproach  on  the  poet  concerning  his  parent's  handiwork. 
"  Where  could  I  find  a  being  more  degraded  than  thy 
father  ?  Nay,  I  was  mistaken  !  One  yet  lower  there  is — 
thyself !  For  many  a  day  he  wove  his  cloaks  as  ill  as 
thou  now  weavest  thy  verse  1  "  No  one  knows  who 
Muslim's  teachers  were.  He  may  proceed  directly  from 
the  great  poets  of  the  heroic  period,  whose  works  he 
studied.  He  was  a  careless  wanderer,  a  spendthrift,  who 
gave  no  thought  to  the  morrow,  and  often,  lacking  any 
other  shelter,  slept  under  the  starry  sky,  wrapped  in 
his  only  cloak.  His  patrons,  the  valiant  General  Yazid 
ibn  Mazyad,  Muhammad,  son  of  Caliph  Mansur,  and 
Fadl  ibn  Sahl,  the  minister,  lifted  him  out  of  this 
parlous  state.  The  latter,  indeed,  went  so  far  as  to  give 
him  a  post  about  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the  Province  of 
Jurjan,  and  then  promoted  him  to  the  delicate  functions 
of  director  of  the  horse-post  in  the  same  place.  But  he 
appointed  a  steward  to  receive  the  income  from  the  farms 
he  had  given  the  poet  near  Ispahan,  to  put  aside  the  sum 
necessary  for  his  daily  expenses,  and  invest  the  rest  in  the 
purchase  of  more  land.  Muslim  was  a  great  admirer  of 
the  produce  of  the  vines  grown  by  the  Zoroastrians  at 
Tizanabad,  and  has  sung  the  praise  of  wine.  "The 
daughter  of  the  Magians  turned  Moslem  by  her  union 
with  the  guests.  We  have  asked  her  in  marriage,  and 
the  negotiator  who  leads  her  to  us  walks  with  grave  and 
solemn  step."  The  whole  of  this  poem  is  worth  reading, 
in  the  charming  translation  given  us  by  M.  Barbier  de 
Meynard.  His  enemies  scoffed  at  his  passion  ;  'Abbas 
Ibn  al-Ahnaf  derisively  called  him  "the  victim  of  the 
sorceresses,"  and  others  "the  victim  of  the  brimming 
cup."     But  his  intoxication  was  elegant,  and  his  style  was 

6 


74  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

classic,  like  that  of  the  ancient  authors  whom  he  closely 
followed,  even  when  he  gave  new  metaphors  to  the  world. 
His  amorous  poetry  is  less  sincere,  and  he  himself 
acknowledged  that  he  sang  of  the  object  of  his  thoughts 
because  fashion  demanded  it,  but  that  his  personal  taste 
was  for  less  exalted  ladies.  As  a  satirist,  he  seems  to 
have  been  inferior  to  his  opponents.  His  dispute  with 
the  poet  Ibn  Qanbar  was  violent,  but  the  advantage,  as 
Abu'l-Faraj  al-lsfahani  and  Al-Mubarrad  have  estab- 
lished, remained  with  his  adversary.  He  died  in  803, 
while  still  holding  his  appointment,  a  stranger  in  Jurjan, 
like  the  palm-tree  he  sang  in  the  last  stanza  he  composed. 
When  at  the  point  of  death,  he  caused  the  rough  copy  of 
all  his  poems  to  be  cast  into  the  river,  as  a  proof  of  peni- 
tence on  account  of  his  Bacchanalian  compositions. 

Abu'l- Atahiya  Ismail  ibn  Qasim  (748-828)  belonged 
to  the  tribe  of  'Anaza.  He  was  born  in  the  Hijaz, 
lived  at  Kufa,  took  his  way  to  Bagdad,  when  his  poetry 
had  already  made  him  a  name,  and  there  fell  in  love 
with  one  of  Mahdi's  slaves,  named  'Utba.  The  pro- 
minent characteristic  of  his  style  is  his  use  of  simple 
expressions  which  every  one  can  understand,  because 
his  poems  are  sermons  in  verse  on  the  instability  of  the 
things  of  this  world.  On  this  account  he  is  the  ancestor 
of  that  long  series  of  hortatory  works  which  flourish 
more  especially  in  Persian  literature.  He  avoided  all 
studied  forms  of  expression,  so  that  he  might  be  under- 
stood by  the  populace. 

He  was  surnamed  Al-Jarrar,  "the  jar-seller,"  because 
he  had  originally  plied  that  trade.  Men  used  to  go  and 
listen  to  his  verses,  and  wrote  them,  at  his  dictation, 
on  the  fragments  of  broken  pottery  they  picked  up 
on  the  ground. 


THE  'ABBASIDS  75 

Abu'l- Atahiya  boasted  that  he  could  put  everything  he 
said  into  verse,  and  when  he  was  asked  if  he  understood 
prosody,  he  would  reply:  "  I  am  above  all  prosody."  As 
a  matter  of  fact  he  did  use  certain  metres  of  his  own 
invention,  which  do  not  follow  the  classic  rules.  'Umar 
ibn  al- Ala,  Governor  of  Tabaristan,  rewarded  him  richly 
for  some  verses  written  in  his  honour,  and  the  jealousy 
of  the  other  poets  ran  high.  The  governor  called  them 
together,  and  made  them  the  following  speech :  "  It  is 
strange  that  you  poets  should  be  so  jealous  of  each 
other.  When  one  of  you  comes  to  us  with  a  qasida 
written  in  our  honour,  fifty  lines  are  devoted  to  the 
celebration  of  his  mistress'  charms,  and  not  till  all  his 
praise  of  her  is  exhausted  does  he  enter  on  the  real 
subject  of  his  poem.  Now  Abu'l- Atahiya,  on  the 
contrary,  devotes  only  a  few  lines  to  his  beloved,  and  at 
once  begins  his  panegyric.  Why  are  you  envious  of 
him  ?  "  When  he  was  at  the  point  of  death,  he  sent  for 
Mukhariq,  the  great  singer,  that  he  might  hear  him  sing 
the  lines  he  had  himself  written  :  "When  my  life  closes, 
the  sorrows  of  the  women  who  weep  me  will  be  short. 
My  mistress  will  cease  to  think  of  me.  She  will  forget 
my  love,  and  will  soon  find  another  lover."  His  last 
desire  was  that  the  following  words  should  be  inscribed 
on  his  tomb  :  "  A  life  which  ends  in  death  is  a  life  filled 
with  bitterness."  Abu  Nuwas  found  fault  with  his  ex- 
treme facility,  which  permitted  Abu'l-Atahiya  to  pro- 
duce one  or  two  hundred  lines  a  day.  He,  too,  gave 
up  writing  poetry,  in  his  old  age,  probably  from  pious 
motives,  but  this  step  led  to  his  being  thrown  into  prison 
among  malefactors,  and  then  haled  before  Al-Mahdi,  who 
gave  him  his  choice  between  carrying  on  his  art  or  suffer- 
ing death.    "  I  would  rather  write  poetry,"  quoth  the  bard. 


76  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

and  forthwith  regained  his  freedom.  He  was  said  to  have 
adopted  the  views  of  the  Greek  philosophers,  because  in 
his  lines  he  spoke  of  death,  and  made  no  mention  of  the 
Resurrection.  He  was  also  taxed  with  avarice,  which 
was  all  the  more  incomprehensible  because  he  had 
amassed  great  wealth.  The  surname  by  which  he  is 
known,  which  probably  signifies  "  the  Intriguer,"  was 
given  him  by  Caliph  Al-Mahdi.  He  made  some 
enemies,  such  as'Abdallah,  the  son  of  Ma'n,  who  caught 
him  in  a  trap,  and  gave  him  a  hundred  lashes,  but  very 
light  ones,  seeing  he  dreaded  the  poet's  vengeance. 
Nevertheless  Abu'l-Atahiya  took  advantage  of  this  for- 
bearance to  abuse  his  foe  yet  more  roundly,  and  likened 
him  to  a  woman  with  eunuchs  all  about  her.  "  She  struck 
me  with  her  hand,  the  daughter  of  Ma'n.  She  hurt  her 
hand,  and  I  felt  nothing  at  all  !  "  He  declared  that  most 
men  spoke  in  verse  without  being  conscious  of  it,  and 
that  all  would  be  poets  if  they  only  knew  how  to  com- 
pose their  speech  correctly.  The .  grammarian  Al- 
Asma  i  said  of  Abu'l-'Atahiya  :  "  His  lines  are  like  the 
public  square  in  front  of  the  King's  palace,  whereon  fall 
pearls,  and  gold,  and  dust,  and  potsherds,  and  fruit- 
kernels."  Abu'l-Atahiya  himself  regarded  the  line  in 
which  he  said,  "  Men  lie  in  apathy,  while  the  mill  of  Fate 
grinds  on,"  as  his  masterpiece.  Harun  al-Rashid  also 
cast  him  into  prison  when  he  would  have  plunged  into 
asceticism,  so  as  to  force  him  to  compose  erotic  poems. 

'All  ibn  Jabala,  who  was  surnamed  Al- Akawwak  (the 
crop-eared)  (776-828),  was  born  in  the  class  of  freed 
slaves.  His  family  had  originally  belonged  to  Khurasan. 
He  was  either  born  blind,  or  became  blind  when  he  was 
seven  years  old,  from  an  attack  of  smallpox.  His  skin 
was  blackish  and  stained  with  leprous  patches.     Caliph 


THE  'ABBASIDS  jj 

Ma'mfln  was  very  wroth  with  him  because  of  a  set  of 
verses  composed  in  honour  of  Humaid  al-Tusi,  in  which 
the  sovereign  detected  excessive  eulogies  such  as 
should  only  be  offered  to  Divinity,  and  also  because  he 
had  asserted  that  all  the  Arabs  on  the  earth  borrowed 
their  finest  qualities  from  Abtj  Dulaf,  without  making 
any  exception  in  favour  of  the  Caliph  himself.  The 
poet,  who  was  in  the  mountains  of  'Iraq  'Ajami,  was 
forced  to  flee.  He  was  taken  in  Syria  and  carried  to 
Bagdad,  where  his  tongue  was  torn  out,  and  he  died  of 
hemorrhage. 

Abii  Dulaf,  whom  Al-'Akawwak  had  extolled,  was 
passing,  one  day,  through  a  town  in'Iriq,  when  he  heard 
one  woman  say  to  another  :  "  That  is  Abu  Dulaf,  of 
whom  the  poet  said:  'Abll  Dulaf  is  the  whole  world, 
nomad  or  of  the  cities.  If  he  turns  out  of  his  road,  all 
the  world  follows  him.' "  And  the  great  man  wept,  re- 
penting that  he  had  not  rewarded  Al- Akawwak  accord- 
ing to  his  deserts. 

Two  men  of  Persian  origin,  IBRAHIM  AL-MAUSiLt  and 
his  son  ISHAQ,  won  celebrity  as  poets,  and  were  incom- 
parably superior  to  all  their  competitors  as  singers  and 
musical  composers.  The  father  was  not  born  at  Mosul, 
as  his  surname  would  seem  to  imply,  but  ran  away  to 
that  place,  to  study  music.  He  first  saw  the  light  at 
Kufa,  and  was  the  son  of  a  high-born  Persian,  Mahan 
(whose  Iranian  name  was  corrupted  to  Maimun),  who 
had  emigrated  from  the  province  of  Fars,  in  742. 
Caliph  Al-Mahdi  was  the  first  to  appreciate  his  music, 
and  he  rose  in  favour  under  each  of  his  successors. 
When  Harun  al-Rashid  fell  out  with  his  slave  Marida, 
and  Ja'far  the  Barmakide,  whose  post  of  Grand  Vizier  has 
been  made  so  famous  by  the  Thousand  and  One  Nights, 


78  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

desired  to  bring  about  a  reconciliation  between  the 
sovereign  and  his  favourite,  he  caused  the  impassioned 
stanzas  which  brought  the  lovers  together  again  to  be 
written  by  the  poet  'Abbas  Ibn  al-Ahnaf,  and  set  to  music 
by  Ibrahim.  Ibrahim  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Ishaq, 
who  was  born  in  767.  Of  him  the  Caliph  Mu  tasim  used 
to  say  :  "  When  Ishaq  sings,  the  borders  of  my  Empire 
seem  to  me  enlarged."  He  was  as  proficient  in  the  tradi- 
tions of  the  Prophet,  in  jurisprudence  and  scholastic 
theology,  as  in  music.  Al-Ma'mun  said  of  him:  "If 
Ishaq  were  not  such  a  famous  singer  I  should  have  made 
him  a  judge.  He  deserves  it  better  than  our  present 
qddis,  and  his  conduct,  his  piety,  and  his  uprightness  sur- 
pass theirs.  But  his  talent  for  music  outshines  all  the 
rest."  He  was  the  second  author  to  produce  a  Book  of 
Songs  (Kitab  al-Aghani),  in  which  the  various  pieces  he 
sang  were  collected  together. 

Al-Mahdi  had  forbidden  Ibrahim  to  go  and  see  his 
sons,  Mdsa  (al-Hadi)  and  Harun  (al  -  Rashid) ;  he  dis- 
obeyed, was  punished  by  the  infliction  of  three  hundred 
lashes  and  cast  into  prison.  In  later  years  Al-Hadi  was 
so  lavish  in  his  gifts  to  Ibrahim  that  Ishaq  was  able  to 
say  that  if  the  Caliph  had  lived  they  might  have  rebuilt 
the  walls  of  their  house  with  silver  and  gold. 

Amongst  the  'Bagdad  poets  of  Arab,  or  at  all  events 
of  Semitic  extraction,  we  must  also  mention  Di'bil 
ibn  'All  AL-Khuza'!  (765-860),  who  was  born  either  at 
Kufa  or  at  Karkisiya  (Circesium).  For  some  time  he 
discharged  administrative  functions  as  governor  of  a 
small  town  in  Tukhiristan,  in  North-Western  Persia. 
He  died  in  Babylonia.  He  was  a  satirist,  who  employed 
himself  in  collecting  a  volume  of  biographies  of  the 
poets.     He  had  a  spiteful  tongue  which  spared  no  one, 


THE  'ABBASIDS  79 

not  even  the  Caliphs.  He  was  consequently  in  a 
constant  condition  of  flight  and  concealment.  So  great 
was  the  terror  he  inspired  that,  when  he  came  one  day 
on  an  epileptic  writhing  in  convulsions  on  the  ground, 
he  only  had  to  shout  his  own  name  into  the  sufferer's 
ear  to  effect  a  cure.  He  had  yet  other  sins  upon  his 
conscience.  One  night  he  fell  upon  a  money-changer 
just  going  to  his  home,  and  whom  he  believed  to 
be  carrying  his  purse  as  usual.  But  all  the  poor  man 
had  in  his  sleeve  that  day  was  a  rag  wrapped  round 
three  pomegranates.  The  victim  lay  stone  dead,  and 
justice  pursued  the  assassin,  who,  after  long  hiding,  was 
fain  to  quit  Kufa  altogether.  He  wrote  his  satires 
beforehand,  and  when  he  had  a  vengeance  to  wreak, 
would  insert  his  enemy's  name  in  a  ready-made  set 
of  verses.  AI-Buhturt  preferred  Di'bil  to  Muslim,  be- 
cause, according  to  Arab  taste,  his  language  and  the 
character  of  his  work  were  superior. 

In  his  old  age  he  would  say:  "For  more  than  fifty 
years  I  have  borne  my  cross  on  my  shoulder,  but 
nobody  has  been  able  to  nail  me  to  it  yet." 

He  was  a  friend  of  Muslim,  who  had  given  him  useful 
counsel.  Yet,  when  Muslim  was  appointed  governor  of  a 
Persian  town,  he  refused  to  acknowledge  him,  an  affront 
avenged  by  Di'bil  in  a  biting  satire.  He  was  an  earnest 
Shi'ite,  and  supported  the  claim  of 'Ali  to  the  Caliphate. 

He  it  was  who  wrote  that  verse,  which  stings  like  a 
whip,  on  Caliph  Mu'tasim  :  "The  'Abbasids  number 
seven,  according  to  the  books,  which  do  not  tell  us  of 
an  eighth.  Unless,  indeed,  like  the  Seven  Sleepers  in 
their  cave,  they  are  seven  brave  fellows,  with  an  eighth 
who  was  a  dog  I "  It  is  true  he  denied  having  written 
this,  in  later  days. 


8o  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

The  habitual  guest  and  companion  of  Caliph  Al-Muta- 
wakkil,  'ALt  ibn  al-Jahm,  surnamed  Al-Sami,  because 
he  was  descended  from  a  branch  of  the  Quraishites 
which  bore  that  name,  was  born  in  Khurasan,  whence 
Al-Ma'mun  summoned  him  to  Bagdad.  He  opposed 
the  Shi'ites  ;  he  wrote  many  lines  against  the  claim  of 
the  'Alids ;  he  also  heaped  insults  on  the  Christians, 
amongst  others  on  the  famous  physician  Bokhtyishu, 
and  on  the  Mu  tazilites.  For  a  satire  which  displeased 
his  patron,  already  greatly  irritated  by  his  perpetual  accu- 
sations against  his  comrades,  he  was  imprisoned  and 
exiled.  He  went  back  to  his  own  country,  then  governed 
by  Tahir,  and,  by  order  of  the  Caliph,  was  fastened 
naked  to  a  cross  for  a  whole  day,  as  he  has  himself  related. 
"  It  was  no  unknown  man,  nor  person  of  inferior  merit, 
who  was  crucified  at  Shadhiyakh  on  Monday  evening. 
By  this  execution  they  satisfied  their  vengeance.  But, 
thanks  be  to  God  !  their  victim  was  a  man  of  honour, 
and  worthy  of  respect ! " 

He  proceeded  into  Syria,  and  while  travelling  towards 
'Iraq  from  Aleppo,  fell  in  a  fight  with  a  Bedouin  Gliazzv 
(in  863).  When  help  reached  him,  he  was  found  to  be 
dying,  but  still  whispering  verses.  "  Has  the  darkness 
of  night  been  deepened  ?  or  has  the  torrent  swept 
away  the  morn  ?  I  think  of  the  folks  in  the  street  of 
Dujail  in  Bagdad  —  but  how  far  am  I  from  there!" 
The  Orientals  admire  the  following  delicate  thought: 
"The  enmity  of  a  man  without  honour  or  religion  is 
an  affliction  which  has  no  equal,  for  he  leaves  you  his 
own  reputation,  while  he  assails  yours,  which  you  have 
guarded  with  such  care." 

He  has  himself  related  that  his  poetic  vocation  first 
manifested  itself  when  his  father  had  him  detained  in  the 


THE  'ABBASIDS  8i 

school  he  was  attending.  He  wrote  to  his  mother, 
complaining  of  his  father's  inhumanity:  "All  the  pupils 
have  left  school,  and  I  stay  here  in  prison,  without 
having  committed  any  fault."  Whereupon  his  mother 
obtained  his  enlargement.  But  such  was  his  reputation 
for  lying  that  many  people  asserted  the  stanzas  were 
written  when  he  was  sixty,  and  could  not,  consequently, 
have  been  composed  while  he  was  at  school. 

Under  the  rule  of  Mutawakkil,  an  artist  prince,  who 
loved  games  and  buffoonery,  and  was  the  first  to  intro- 
duce them  into  the  Palace  of  the  Caliphs,  music  and 
the  dance  reached  a  development  far  beyond  that  of  the 
old  days.  Among  the  court  poets  of  this  period  we  find 
Fadl,  a  woman  of  Central  Arabian  blood,  who  led  a  some- 
what loose  life  a;t  Bagdad.  Her  liaison  with  Said  ibn 
Humaid,  a  poet  of  Persian  birth,  and  exceedingly  orthodox 
opinions,  who  was  head  of  the  despatch  office  under 
Caliph  Musta'in,  whereas  his  mistress  was  a  Shi'ite,  fills 
up  the  whole  story  of  her  life.  She  used  to  be  summoned 
to  the  Caliph's  harem,  to  delight  his  fair  favourites. 
She  was  a  quick-witted  woman,  ready  in  repartee,  and 
skilled  in  penmanship.  Her  lover.  Said,  perceived,  at  last, 
that  he  was  dropping  into  unconscious  imitation  of  her 
style.  She  went  to  see  him  when  she  chose.  One  day, 
as  she  entered,  Sa'id  rose  eagerly,  greeted  her,  and 
begged  her  to  remain  with  him.  She  replied  ;  "  A  mes- 
senger from  the  Palace;  has  just  been  at  my  house,  so  I 
cannot  stay.  But  I  came  up,  because  I  could  not  bear  to 
pass  thy  door  without  coming  in  to  see  thee  "  ;  and  Sa  id 
replied  :  "  Thou  art  like  the  sun  that  lights  the  world  ;  its 
rays  seem  close  to  us,  but  who  can  reach  it  ?  "  Sa'id's 
devotion  did  not  prevent  the  inconstant  Fadl  from 
accepting  the  suit  of  Bunan,  a  young  singer.     But  at  all 


82  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

events  she  was  swayed  by  a  genuine  and  sincere  feeling. 
How  different  from  the  female  slave-musicians,  who,  as 
the  poetess  herself  tells  us  (and  other  testimony  proves  her 
truth),  "receive  a  poor  man  as  if  he  were  a  dog,  and  never 
ask  for  less  than  a  gold-mine  ! "  When  at  the  point  of 
death,  Fadl  desired  to  see  her  lover  once  more,  and  found 
strength  to  write  to  him.  "  My  patience  is  worn  out,  and 
my  sufferings  increase.  My  house  is  near  thee,  it  is  true, 
but  thou  art  still  a  long  way  off !  "  This  happened  under 
the  Caliphate  of  Mu  tamid,  in  873.  In  Mutawakkil's  own 
harem,  a  singing-woman  named  MAHBtrBA,  born  at  Bas- 
sora,  but  of  foreign  blood,  was  greatly  admired.  She  com- 
posed stanzas  which  she  sang,  accompanying  herself  on  the 
lute.  But  her  verses  were  thought  better  than  her  singing, 
which  was  mediocre.  When  Mutawakkil  was  murdered, 
Mahbuba  put  on  mourning  and  forswore  all  pleasure 
till  she  died.  This  persistent  fidelity  displeased  the 
new  owner  into  whose  hands  she  passed  when  the 
Caliph's  harem  was  dispersed  :  but  an  officer  of  Turkish 
birth  asked  for  her  as  a  gift,  set  her  free,  and  bade  her 
quit  Samarra  and  settle  wherever  she  chose.  She  died  at 
Bagdad,  in  the  deepest  seclusion. 

Ibn  AL-RtiMi,  "son  of  the  Greek,"  a  surname  he 
owed  to  his  grandfather,  Juraij,  or  George,  was  born 
at  Bagdad  in  836,  and  was  poisoned  by  Abu'l-Husain 
Qasim  ibn  'Ubaidallah,  Caliph  Mutadid's  vizier,  who 
dreaded  his  satires.  The  minister  suborned  a  servant, 
who  served  the  poet  with  a  poisoned  biscuit.  When 
Ibn  al-Rlimi  had  eaten  it,  he  perceived  he  had  been 
poisoned,  and  rose  to  depart.  "Where  are  you  going  ?  " 
said  the  minister.  "  Whither  you  have  sent  me."  "  Very 
good,"  replied  the  vizier.  "  Present  my  duty  to  my  father." 
"  I  am  not  on  my  road  to  hell  ! "  answered  the  poet,  who 


THE   'ABBASIDS  83 

forthwith  retired  to  his  own  house,  sent  for  a  physician, 
who  is  said  to  have  used  the  wrong  drugs,  so  that  the 
patient  died  within  a  few  days. 

His  Hnes  are  admirable,  both  for  beauty  of  expression 
and  originality  of  conception.  The  novelty  of  his  ideas 
was  especially  praised.  He  derided  the  Eastern  mania 
for  dyeing  the  beard.  "  When  a  man's  hair  remains  black, 
although  his  youth  has  gone  by,  it  must  of  necessity  be 
artificially  dyed.  How  can  any  old  man  believe  that 
jetty  colour  will  be  thought  natural,  and  he  himself  con- 
sidered young  ?  " 

A  poet  of  the  tribe  of  Tai,  Al-Buhtur!  (Walid  ibn 
'Ubaid),  was  born  at  or  near  Manbij  in  820.  He  was  first 
of  all  the  comrade  of  his  fellow-tribesman  Abil  Tamm^m, 
and  finally  travelled  to  Bagdad,  where  he  long  lived, 
as  the  panegyrist  of  Mutawakkil  and  his  courtiers,  and 
of  the  heads  of  his  civil  administration.  He  died  in  897, 
either  at  his  native  town  or  at  Aleppo.  Like  Abti 
Tammim,  whose  chief  claim  to  glory  lies  in  his  collection 
of  the  Hamdsa,  Al-Buhturt  made  a  book  of  the  same 
description.  And  his  poetry,  too,  is  written  in  imitation 
of  the  ancient  style.  He  often  mentions  Aleppo  and 
the  surrounding  plain,  for  that  country  had  grown  dear 
to  him.  It  was  Abu  Tammam  who,  hearing  him  recite 
a  poem  of  his  own  composition,  at  Hims,  divined  his 
poetic  gift,  and,  as  he  knew  him  to  be  poor,  wrote  a  letter 
recommending  him  to  the  inhabitants  of  Ma'arrat  al- 
Nu  man.  As  a  result  of  this  letter,  he  was  given  a  pension 
of  four  thousand  dirhems,  the  first  money  he  ever  earned. 
Abii'l-'Ala.  al-Ma'arri  considered  Abu  Tammim  and 
Mutanabbi  moralists,  while  he  took  Al-Buhturi  to  be  a 
genuine  poet.  Al-Buhturt  was  very  avaricious,  wore 
dirty  garments,  and  starved  the  brother  and  the  servant 


84  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

who  lived  with  him.  He  left  very  few  satires  behind 
him.  His  son  related  that  his  father  charged  him  on 
his  deathbed  to  burn  everything  he  had  written  in 
anger,  or  with  a  desire  for  revenge,  so  as  to  save  his 
descendants  from  any  inconvenience  caused  by  other 
men's  resentment.  But  Abu'l-Faraj  al-Isfahani  has 
proved  Al-Buhturi's  inferiority  in  this  department,  by 
means  of  fragments  of  satires  admitted  to  be  his. 

Even  the  sons  of  kings  dabbled  in  poetry.  'Abdallah 
IBN  al-Mu'tazz,  the  son  of  Caliph  Al-Mutazz  (86i- 
908),  led  the  unfettered  existence  of  a  poet  and  man  of 
learning  under  the  reign  of  Al-Mu  tadid.  After  the  death 
of  that  Caliph,  he  was  mixed  up  in  court  intrigues. 
The  party  which  was  discontented  with  the  policy  of 
Muqtadir,  who  was  ruled  by  women  and  eunuchs,  chose 
Abdallah  to  be  Caliph,  under  the  title  of  Al-Murtadi 
(December  17,  908).  But  the  reigning  Caliph's  guard 
overcame  'Abdallah's  partisans.  His  sovereignty  lasted 
one  day  only.  He  fled  to  the  house  of  a  jeweller,  but 
was  soon  discovered  and  strangled  (29th  December) 
by  the  Caliph's  chamberlain  and  treasurer,  Mu'nis,  a 
eunuch.  His  poetry,  which  resembled  that  of  Abu 
Nuwas,  contained  no  imitation  of  the  ancient  styles. 
He  wrote  charming  little  occasional  poems,  full  of 
aristocratic  grace.  Besides  this,  he  took  an  interest  in 
literature,  and  was  the  author  of  the  first  great  Arabic 
work  on  rhetoric  {Kiidb  al-badi),  now  preserved  at  the 
Escurial.  His  verses  are  marked  by  lucidity  and  ease 
of  style. 

He  formulated  the  rule  for  healthy  rhetoric  in  the 
following  dictum  :  "  Eloquence  is  the  accurate  expression 
of  ideas,  in  few  words."  Some  poets  wept  his  tragic 
end,  among  them  the  refined  and  subtle 'Ali  ibn  Muham- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  8s 

mad  Ibn  Bassim,  and  his  friend  Ibn  aI-A114f  Hasan 
ibn'Ali,  the  blind  poet  of  Naliraw^n,  who,  to  avoid  per- 
secution, wrote  a  celebrated  elegy  on  a  cat,  his  pet, 
which  was  in  the  habit  of  climbing  into  his  neigh- 
bours' pigeon  roosts  and  devouring  their  denizens,  whose 
owners  ruthlessly  destroyed  it.  "Thou  hast  left  us,  puss 
{hirr),  and  thou  wilt  return  no  more  !  Thou  wast  as 
my  own  child  to  me.  How  could  we  cease  to  love 
thee,  thou  who  wast  so  sure  a  protection  to  us  ! "  Ibn 
al-Mu'tazz  was  fond  of  drinking  wine  of  a  morning  in 
the  meadows  of  Matira,  near  Samarra,  not  far  from  the 
Christian  Convent  of  'Abdun.  "  How  often  have  I  been 
wakened  at  dawn  by  the  voices  of  the  monks  at  their 
prayers  !  Robed  in  black,  they  chanted  matins,  girt 
with  their  rope-girdles,  and  with  a  crown  of  hair  about 
their  shaven  heads." 

The  'Abb&sid  administration  may  also  claim  the 
honour  of  numbering  Ibn  AL-Hajjaj,  a  Muhtasib,  or 
commissioner  in  charge  of  the  markets,  weights  and 
measures,  and  popular  morals  of  Bagdad,  among  its 
servants.  He  was  ultimately  deprived  of  his  office,  and 
died  in  the  year  looo.  His  light  poetry  earned  him  con- 
siderable fame  and  applause.  Its  ease  and  gaiety  were 
highly  praised.  He  has  been  likened  to  Imru'ul-Qais, 
inasmuch  as  that,  like  him,  he  created  a  new  style,  in 
which  he  never  was  surpassed.  He  was  a  fervent  Shi'ite, 
and  ordered  in  his  last  will  that  his  body  should  be  laid 
at  the  feet  of  that  of  the  Imam  Musa,  whose  tomb  is 
not  far  from  Bagdad.  With  him  we  must  also  mention 
Sharif  Muhammad  al-Rida,  a  descendant  of  the  Prophet. 
His  father,  Tahir,  had  performed  the  functions  of 
inspector  of  the  descent  of 'Ali,  or  judge  of  that  final 
Court  of  Appeal  known  as  al-Mazalim,  and  leader  of  the 


86  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Pilgrim  Caravan.  He  began  to  write  verses  very  early  in 
life,  and  went  on  producing  them  in  considerable  num- 
bers till  he  died.  He  also  took  an  interest  in  Koranic 
exegesis,  and  wrote  works  dealing  with  the  rhetoric  of  the 
Sacred  Book.     He  died  at  Bagdad  in  1015. 

One  of  his  pupils,  MlHYAR  IBN  MarzDya,  was  con- 
verted to  Islam  by  his  means.  He  had  been  a  Zoroastrian, 
born  in  Dailam,  the  mountainous  region  south  of  Gilan, 
on  the  Caspian  coast.  He  died  at  Bagdad  in  1037.  He 
acted  as  Persian  secretary,  and  studied  poetry  with 
Sharif  Al-Rida.  His  Shi'ite  opinions  were  abhorred  by 
the  Sunnites,  one  of  whom  said  to  him,  at  last :  "  Mihyar, 
when  you  were  converted,  all  you  did  was  to  shift  from 
one  corner  of  hell  into  another!"  The  delicacy  of 
thought  and  remarkable  sweetness  of  expression  charac- 
terising his  verses  were  greatly  admired. 

The  Provinces 

All  the  poetic  genius  of  the  country  was  not  attracted 
to  the  capital.  From  one  end  of  the  Empire  to  the  other, 
we  find  poetical  works  produced.  Their  authors,  for 
political  or  religious,  or  other  more  personal  reasons, 
remained  far  from  the  central  point,  and  were  content 
with  the  patronage  of  the  provincial  governors.  Ismail, 
the  HiMYARiTE  Sayyid,  born  at  Bassora  about  729, 
was  driven  by  his  Shi'ite  opinions  to  leave  that  town 
for  Kufa.  He  acknowledged  Abu'l- Abbas  Saffah  when 
that  city  fell,  but  he  held  apart  from  him  and  his 
successors  on  perceiving  that  they  persecuted  the'Alids, 
and  died  at  Wasit  in  789.  His  poetry,  like  that  of 
AbLi'l- Ataliiya  and  Bashshar  ibn  Burd,  is  remarkable  for 
its  simplicity  of  diction. 


THE   "ABBASIDS  87 

This  poet,  who  came  of  Kharijite  parents,  belonging 
to  the  'Ibadite  sect,  spent  forty  years  in  celebrating  the 
gloi'ies  of  the  house  of  'Ali  in  numberless  poems,  and 
with  a  talent  which  compelled  the  admiration  even  of  his 
enemies.  He  himself  has  related  that  it  was  a  dream 
which  converted  him  to  the  tenets  of  the  Kaisanites,  the 
partisans  of  Muhammad,  son  of  the  Hanafite  woman. 
His  bronzed  complexion  bore  witness  to  the  many  cross- 
ings of  races  which  had  taken  place  in  Southern  Arabia. 
He  was  tall  and  well  proportioned,  with  fine  teeth  and 
luxuriant  hair.  His  fecundity  of  language  and  boldness 
of  conception  were  remarkable.  The  Bedouins  them- 
selves highly  esteemed  his  style.  His  drunken  habits 
led  to  his  being  arrested  one  night,  in  a  state  of  intoxica- 
tion, in  the  streets  of  Al-Ahwaz,  in  Susiana.  In  his 
satires,  which  are  full  of  the  most  violent  hatred  of  the 
companions  of  the  Prophet,  he  goes  so  far  as  to  com- 
pare 'A'isha  to  "  the  serpent  which  seeks  to  devour  its 
young." 

Abu'1-Shis  Muhammad  ibn  'Abdallah  attached  himself 
as  panegyrist  to  the  service  of  the  Amir  of  Raqqa, 
"Uqba  ibn  Ja'far  ibn  al-Ash'ath  al  Khuzai,  wrote 
Bacchic  poetry  and  elegies  on  the  loss  of  his  own  eye- 
sight, which  overtook  him  in  old  age,  and  died  in  811. 
He  was  cousin  to  Di'bil  al  Khuzai,  and  his  reputation 
was  overshadowed  by  those  of  Muslim  ibn  al-Walid, 
Ashja',  and  Abii  Nuwas.  The  Amir  of  Raqqa  was  both 
rich  and  generous,  and  his  largess  kept  the  poet  near 
him.  He  was  a  quick  thinker,  and  composed  with  great 
rapidity. 

No  more  poets  are  to  be  discovered  in  the  Arabian 
Peninsula.  It  is  scarcely  worth  while  to  mention  Ibn 
Harma     Ibrahim     ibn    'Ali    (685-767),    who    dwelt    at 


88  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Medina,  was  a  hot  partisan  of  the  'Alids,  and  a  great 
lover  of  wine.  Syria,  however,  continues  to  shine  with 
"brilliant  splendour.  Abu  Tammam  Habib  ibn  Aus, 
who  was  born  near  the  Lake  of  Tiberias  in  807,  the 
son  of  a  Christian  named  Tadus  (Thaddeus)  the 
druggist,  was  a  great  traveller.  In  his  youth  he  was 
at  Hims,  where,  when  the  poet  Al-Buhturi  met  him, 
he  already  enjoyed  considerable  reputation  as  a  poet. 
But  some  authorities  aver  that,  as  a  child,  he  carried 
water  in  the  mosques  of  Cairo.  Certain  it  is  that  Egypt 
was  the  country  in  which  his  literary  efforts  first  found 
favour.  He  went  to  Damascus,  and  failing  to  find  a 
patron  there,  seized  the  opportunity  offered  by  a  journey 
into  Syria,  undertaken  by  Al-Ma'mun,  to  wait  on  him, 
but  could  not  obtain  an  audience.  Having  reached 
Mosul,  he  travelled  into  Armenia,  where  rich  gifts  from 
the  governor,  Khalid  ibn  Yazid,  awaited  him.  The  death 
of  Caliph  Al-Ma'mun  recalled  him  to  Bagdad,  where 
he  was  received  into  favour  by  Al-Mu  tasim,  and  to  this 
prince  or  to  his  courtiers  many  of  his  poems  are  dedi- 
cated. The  increasing  renown  of  'Abdallah  ibn  Tahir, 
then  well  nigh  independent  in  his  government  of  Khu- 
rasan, attracted  the  poet  thither.  On  his  return,  being 
delayed  at  Hamadhan  by  a  snowstorm  which  had  choked 
the  Zagros  passes,  he  made  the  acquaintance  of  the 
learned  Abu'1-Wafa  ibn  Salama,  who  made  him  free 
of  his  library,  inspired  him  with  a  taste  for  searching 
out  and  collecting  the  old  Arab  poets,  and  thus  enabled 
him  to  compose,  among  other  works,  his  Hatndsa — 
which  has  preserved  the  knowledge  of  a  great  number 
of  poets  and  poetical  works  of  the  early  Arab  times  to 
us.  His  own  verses  might,  perhaps,  have  been  swiftly 
forgotten ;    but   his    celebrity    as    the    compiler    of    the 


THE  'ABBASIDS  89 

HamAsa  has  endured,  and  his  commentator,  Tabrizi, 
has  been  able  to  declare  that  "  Abii  Tammam,  when  he 
collected  this  anthology,  proved  himself  a  better  poet 
than  in  his  own  verse."  Yet  he  is  also  said  to  have  sur- 
passed his  contemporaries  in  purity  of  style,  in  the 
intrinsic  merit  of  his  work,  and  the  excellence  of  the  way 
in  which  he  could  handle  a  subject.  Ibn  Khallikan  has 
ascertained  that  Abii  Tammam  spent  the  close  of  his 
life  at  Mosul,  whither  Hasan  ibn  Wahb,  secretary  to  the 
chief  of  the  Chancery,  had  sent  him  as  director  of  the 
horse  post.  This,  under  the  Arab  Empire,  was  a  most 
confidential  position,  for,  apart  from  his  public  functions, 
the  director  had  to  keep  the  central  authority  informed 
of  all  that  was  happening  in  the  provinces.  He  died  in 
this  town,  about  the  year  846. 

In  DIk  AL-Jinn  ("the  Cock  of  the  Genii,"  thus  sur- 
named  because  he  had  green  eyes  and  was  very  ugly) 
'Abdal-Salam  ibn  Raghban,  we  have  an  instance  of  that 
interesting  intellectual  movement  which  stirred  all  the 
vanquished  races  just  beginning  to  raise  their  heads, 
and  find  rhetoricians  to  defend  their  (purely  imaginary) 
rights  against  the  Arabian  Arabs'  pretensions  to  supe- 
riority and  nobility  of  race.  These  rhetoricians  were 
known  as  shiiikbiyya.  One  thing  they  forgot — that  they 
could  only  express  their  patriotism  in  the  Arabic  tongue, 
and  that  the  use  of  that  tongue  was  the  indelible  symbol 
of  their  vanquished  state.  The  Cock  of  the  Genii  was 
a  famous  Shuubi.  He  was  born  at  Hims  in  Syria,  a 
country  he  never  left,  and  he  asserted  the  superiority 
of  the  Syrian  race.  He  was  also  a  Shi'ite,  and  wrote 
elegies  on  the  sad  death  of  Husain,  son  of  'Ali,  at 
the  battle  of  Kerbela.  He  died  in  849,  when  over 
seventy  years  of  age.  He  had  squandered  his  whole 
7 


go  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

patrimony  in  pleasure  and  dissipation.  He  had  a  slave 
of  the  name  of  Dunya,  of  whom  he  was  passionately 
enamoured  and  to  whom  he  wrote  many  poems.  But 
in  a  fit  of  wicked  passion  and  jealousy  he  put  her  to 
death,  suspecting  her  of  loose  conduct  with  a  slave 
called  Wasif.  He  lived  to  repent  his  crime  most  bitterly. 
To  his  outpourings  of  sorrow  we  owe  verses  in  which 
he  vents  his  lamentation.  "  O  cluster  of  dates,  destruc- 
tion has  fallen  upon  thee  !  I  have  watered  the  earth 
with  thy  blood.  .  .  ."  Her  form  used  to  appear  to  him 
at  night.  "  After  she  was  buried  she  came  to  my  couch, 
and  I  said  to  her  :  'Joy  of  my  eyes,  art  thou  restored 
to  me  ?  But  how  ?  Can  it  be  possible  ? '  and  she 
replied :  '  My  corpse  lies  yonder,  but  this,  my  soul, 
is  come  to  visit  thee.'  "  My  readers  will  note  the  ex- 
pression of  regret.  There  is  no  expression  of  remorse. 
The  poet's  conscience  was  easy.  In  committing  the 
murder,  he  had  done  no  more  than  use  the  right 
conferred  on  him  by  law. 

The  rule  of  the  Hamdanids  at  Aleppo  engendered 
a  most  important  literary  movement  in  that  city,  and 
it  soon  spread  to  every  Arabic-speaking  country.  Saif 
al-daula,  who  established  himself  at  Aleppo  when  the 
sovereignty  of  Bagdad  was  being  disputed  by  military 
leaders  of  Turkish  or  Persian  origin,  was  forced  to 
defend  the  state  he  had  set  up  against  many  external 
foes,  and  especially  against  the  Roman  troops  of  Byzan- 
tium. Notwithstanding  this,  he  saw  several  poets  flourish 
about  him,  the  most  famous  being  Mutanabbi  and  Abii 
Firas  al-Hamdani. 

The  son  of  a  water-carrier,  MutanabbI  was  born  at 
Kufa  in  905 ;  he  spent  his  boyhood  in  Syria  and 
amongst  the  desert  Arabs.     As  a  young  man,  he  fancied 


THE  'ABBASIDS  91 

himself  a  prophet,  founded  a  new  religion  in  the  plains 
round  the  little  town  of  Samawa  on  the  Euphrates, 
received  revelations  after  the  manner  of  the  Koran, 
and  collected  a  few  followers  about  him.  But  in  a 
very  short  space  of  time  he  was  overthrown  by  Lu'lu', 
the  Ikhshidite  general  in  command  at  Hims,  and  was 
cast  into  prison.  Thence  his  surname  of  MutanabbJ, 
"he  who  counts  himself  a  prophet."  His  prison,  which 
did  not  open  its  doors  till  he  had  acknowledged  the 
true  Faith,  revealed  his  poetic  gift  to  him.  In  948 
he  reached  Saif  al-daula's  court,  and  composed  such 
beautiful  poems  in  his  honour  that  the  names  of  poet 
and  patron  are  thereby  indissolubly  united. 

This  good  understanding  only  lasted  for  nine  years. 
After  a  dispute  with  the  Persian  philologist,  Khalawaih, 
of  Susiana,  who  so  far  lost  his  self-control  as  to  strike 
his  adversary  in  the  face  with  a  key,  the  poet  quitted 
Aleppo  and  offered  his  services  to  foes  of  the  Hamda- 
nid  dynasty,  Kafur,  a  negro  eunuch,  and  Anujur,  both 
of  them  ministers  of  the  Ikhshidite  princes,  who 
had  made  themselves  independent  in  Egypt.  But  this 
attempt  ended  in  disappointment,  and  Mutanabbi,  in 
a  rage,  fled  to  Bagdad,  where  the  real  ruler  was  the 
Vizier  Al-Muhallabi,  who  would  fain  have  been  the 
object  of  the  illustrious  poet's  praise.  But  this  honour 
the  poet  would  not  grant  him,  and  so  departed  to 
Shiriz  in  Persia,  to  'Adud  al-daula,  the  Buwaihid,  who 
heaped  generous  rewards  upon  him.  On  his  way  back 
from  Persia,  Mutanabbi  fell  amongst  a  marauding  band 
of    Bedouins,    and   was    killed,   not    far    from    Bagdad 

(965). 

Mutanabbi's  poems  have  been  inordinately  praised  and 
criticised,  both  in  the   Arab   and  the  European  world. 


92  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Qidi  Abu'l-Hasan  boasted  that  he  kept  the  golden  mean 
between  the  poet's  admirers,  who  preferred  him  to  every 
other  of  his  time,  and  set  him  above  all  his  rivals, 
and  his  detractors,  who  declared  his  dissertations  to 
be  empty  chatter  and  his  expressions  mere  barbarisms. 
Tha'alibi,  the  author  of  the  Yatimat  al-Dahr,  justly  held 
this  division  of  opinion  to  be  an  evident  proof  of  the 
poet's  merit  and  superiority.  He  also  praised  his  skill. 
"  Rhythm  is  subject  to  his  will,  and  thoughts  are  his 
slaves."  A  close  examination  of  Oriental  criticism  shows 
us  that  the  qualities  it  most  values  in  Mutanabbi's  work 
are  his  refinement  of  expression,  his  neglect  of  the 
antique  simplicity  in  favour  of  affected  mannerisms,  and 
his  accumulation  of  fantastic  imagery.  Thus  he  was  the 
first  to  compose  lines  in  the  style  of  the  following  :  "  He 
marched  at  the  head  of  an  army  which  raised  a  cloud  of 
dust  that  darkened  the  sight.  It  was  as  though  the 
soldiers  saw  with  their  ears."  And  this  because  the 
darkness  was  so  great  that  nobody  could  see  with  his 
eyes  1  These  regrettable  inventions  of  the  pseudo- 
prophet  and  his  contemporaries  won  so  much  success 
that  they  reigned  supreme  over  Oriental  poetry,  which 
we  shall  now  see  drop  deeper  and  deeper  into  bombast 
and  false  imagery.  In  proof  of  Mutanabbi's  popularity, 
Ibn  Khallikan  quotes  the  fact  that  more  than  forty  com- 
mentaries have  been  written  to  explain  his  works.  This 
is  because  the  uncommon  and  far-fetched  expressions  he 
used  so  much  too  freely  needed  explanation  before  they 
could  be  understood.  Avarice  was  the  only  vice  with 
which  he  could  be  taxed.  His  moral  conduct  stood  out 
in  remarkable  contrast  to  the  looseness  and  debauchery 
of  the  life  at  Saif  al-daula's  court.  One  stern  Moslem 
actually  remarked   that   though   he    did    not   fast,   nor 


THE  'ABBASIDS 


93 


recite  the  canonical  prayers  five  times  a  day,  nor  read 
the  Koran,  he  never  told  a  lie. 

AbO  FirAs  al-Hamdani,  who  was  of  the  princely 
family,  and  cousin  to  Saif  al-daula,  who  appointed  him 
governor  of  the  town  of  Manbij,  and  had  him  with 
him  all  through  his  wars  with  the  Domesticus,  general- 
in-chief  of  the  Roman  troops  in  Asia,  was  a  man  of  a 
different  temper.  He  was  made  prisoner  in  959,  when 
the  fortress  he  commanded  fell,  was  conveyed  to 
Constantinople,  and  there  remained  till  he  was  set  at 
liberty  in  965.  During  this  captivity  he  wrote  many 
elegies  addressed  to  various  members  of  his  family. 
One,  which  is  celebrated,  to  his  mother,  at  Manbij,  has 
been  translated  into  German  by  Ahlwardt.  When  Saif 
al-daula  died,  in  967,  Abii  Firas  claimed  the  sovereignty 
of  Hims,  but  perished  fighting  with  the  troops  sent 
against  him  by  Saif  al-daula's  son.  He  was  a  valiant 
soldier,  and  his  poems,  quite  devoid  of  any  pedantic 
affectation,  breathe  brave  and  straightforward  feeling, 
expressed  in  noble  and  elevated  language.  They  form 
a  diary  of  his  eventful  life. 

With  these  two  masters  of  the  Arabic  tongue,  we 
may  mention  a  member  of  Saif  al-daula's  circle  known 
as  Al-Sari  Al-Raffa,  because  in  his  youth  he  had  been  a 
patcher  or  darner  of  stuffs  at  Mosul.  After  Saif  al-daula's 
death,  he  went  to  Bagdad,  to  the  Vizier  Al-Muhallabi ; 
Tha'alibt  accuses  him  of  many  plagiarisms.  He  had 
chosen  Kushajim,  then  famous  in  the  East,  to  be  his 
model,  and  to  increase  the  volume  of  the  copies  he 
made  from  that  author's  works,  he  contracted  the  habit 
of  inserting  lines  of  his  own  composition.  Al  -  Nam! 
(Abfi'l- Abbas  Ahmad),  who  succeeded  Mutanabbi  as 
court  poet,  died  at  Aleppo  between  980  and  1008.     He 


'94  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

was  called  Al-Missisi,  because  his  family  came  from 
Mopsuesta  in  Cilicia.  We  possess  witty  lines  from  his 
pen,  addressed  to  the  solitary  black  hair  remaining  on  his 
bald  pate.  "  I  say  to  my  white  hairs,  which  are  terrified 
by  this  stranger's  presence  :  '  Respect  her,  I  entreat 
you.  A  black  African  spouse  will  not  tarry  long  in  a 
house  where  the  second  wife  has  a  white  skin!"  Abii'l 
Faraj,  surnamed  AI-Babbagha  (the  parrot)  because  of 
a  defect  in  his  speech,  belonged  to  Nasibin.  After 
his  patron's  death  he  betook  himself  to  Mosul,  and 
thence  to  Bagdad,  where  he  died  in  1007.  Al-Zahi 
'All  ibn  Ishaq  was  only  a  temporary  visitor  at  Aleppo. 
He  usually  lived  at  Bagdad,  where  he  was  born,  and 
where  he  kept  a  shop  for  cotton  stuffs.  In  Bagdad  he 
wrote  poems  in  honour  of  the  'Abbasids  and  of  Al- 
Muhallabi ;  he  died  in  963.  He  was  famed  for  his 
descriptions.  His  lines  on  the  violet  :  "  azure  blossom, 
whose  stalk  seems  too  weak  to  hold  up  the  flower,"  on 
wine  :  "so  transparent  in  the  goblet  that  it  seems 
luminous,"  and  the  fair  :  "whose  eyes  seem  to  brandish 
swords  and  unsheathe  daggers,  whose  faces,  veiled,  recall 
the  crescent,  and  unveiled,  the  moon  at  the  full,"  are 
frequently  quoted. 

Egypt  was  slipping  more  and  more  out  of  the  sphere 
of  influence  of  the  Bagdad  Caliphate.  The  Tulunids 
and  the  Ikhshidites  had  established  their  independence, 
and  the  African  Fatimids  was  soon  to  establish  a  Shi'ite 
Caliphate  on  the  Nile.  With  a  glance  at  the  k&tib 
(secretary),  Rishid  ibn  Ishftq,  who  flourished  about 
850,  and  has  left  a  diwdn  filled  with  obscenities  behind 
him  (now  in  the  Berlin  Library),  we  may  notice  Sharif 
Abfl'l-Qisim  IBN  TabAtabA,  who  performed  the  duties 
of  inspector  of  the  descendants  of  'Alt.     He  died  in  956 


THE  'ABBASIDS  95 

His  poems  are  mostly  of  the  ascetic  and  mystic  type. 
Yet  his  description  of  a  long  night  is  often  quoted  : 
"To-night  the  Pleiades  seem  to  have  travelled  all  day 
long,  and  to  have  been  weary  when  they  reached  their 
evening  station.  They  have  set  up  their  tents,  so  that 
their  caravan  may  rest.  Not  a  planet  moves  in  its  orbit, 
not  a  star  hurries  over  its  nocturnal  course  (so  dark  is  the 
night)." 

Abu'l  Qasim  Muhammad  ibn  Hani'  al-Andalusi  was 
born  at  Seville,  but  his  father  came  from  a  village  near 
Mahdiyya,  in  Tunis.  He  was  driven  out  of  his  native 
town  at  the  age  of  seven-and-twenty,  because  the  dissipa- 
tion into  which  he  had  plunged  had  earned  him  the 
reputation  of  being  tainted  with  the  opinions  of  the  Greek 
philosophers.  This  roused  popular  hatred  against  him, 
and  forced  his  patron,  who  dreaded  being  accused  of 
sharing  his  views,  to  beg  him  to  depart  for  a  season  ; 
he  attached  himself  to  Jauhar,  a  general  who  served 
Al-Mansur,  the  Fatimid,  and  later  to  the  general's  son, 
Al-Mu'izz,  who  replaced  his  father  in  953,  and  was  with 
him  when  he  went  forth  to  conquer  Egypt  in  969.  After 
some  time  he  returned  to  the  Maghrib  to  seek  his  family 
and  conduct  it  into  Egypt.  In  the  course  of  his  journey 
he  was  murdered  at  Barqa  in  the  ancient  Cyrenaica,  in 
973.     He  was  still  a  young  man,  not  over  forty-two. 

Al-Mu  izz  heard  of  his  protege's  death  when  he  reached 
Egypt,  and  was  deeply  affected  by  it.  "  We  had  hoped," 
he  said,  "to  see  this  man  compete  with  the  Oriental 
poets,  but  this  pleasure  has  been  denied  to  us."  Abu'l- 
'Ala  al-Maarri,  who  did  not  like  Ibn  Hani"s  poetry, 
compared  it  to  wheat  grains  crushed  in  the  mill,  because 
of  its  harsh  phraseology. 

TamIm,   the   second   son   of   the  Fatimid  Caliph,  Al- 


96  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Muizz  (948-985),  composed  dithyrambs  in  praise  of 
his  brother,  CaHph  Al-Aziz,  and  died  in  Egypt.  Al- 
'Aziz,  who  succeeded  Al-Muizz,  having  been  desig- 
nated heir-presumptive  in  his  lifetime,  was  also  a 
poet.  Tamim  wrote  amorous  poetry,  and  imitated 
the  desert  poets  in  his  descriptions  of  thirst-stricken 
gazelles.  With  him  we  may  refer  to  Ibn  Wakf, 
■who  was  born  at  Tinnis,  near  Damietta,  and  died  in 
the  same  town,  in  1003.  His  originality  of  thought 
was  much  admired.  He  was  a  remarkable  compiler, 
and  devoted  a  whole  volume  to  the  plagiarisms  ascribed 
to  Mutanabbi.  A  defect  in  his  pronunciation  had  pro- 
cured him  the  surname  of  Al-Atis  (he  who  sneezes). 
He  has  sung  the  delights  of  a  love  which  has  cooled 
down.  "  My  heart,  once  so  fond,  is  now  rid  of  thy 
love,  and  feels  neither  inclination  nor  desire  for  thee. 
Thy  cruelty  has  reconciled  me  to  thine  absence.  A 
parent  may  cease  to  mourn  the  death  of  a  froward 
child."  His  ambition  was  a  modest  one.  "An  obscure 
position  fulfils  my  desires,  which  shrink  from  exalted 
rank.  Not  that  they  do  not  know  how  sweet  greatness 
is,  but  they  prefer  health." 

ABtJ'L-RAQA'MAQ  was  a  man  of  Antioch.  He  settled 
in  Egypt,  sang  the  praises  of  the  Fatimid  rulers  and  the 
great  men  of  that  country,  and  died  there  in  1008.  Al- 
TlHAMt  (Abu'l-Hasan  'Ali  ibn  Muhammad)  only  pro- 
duced a  small  volume  of  poems,  but  the  greater  part  are 
exquisite,  after  the  Oriental  pattern,  that  is  to  say,  full  of 
exaggerated  and  unexpected  comparisons.  In  his  eulogy 
of  an  open-handed  vizier,  he  exclaims  :  "  Compared  with 
his  magnificence,  the  heavy  rain-cloud  is  but  a  vapour, 
and  the  seas  mere  brooks!"  But  he  wrote  a  very 
beautiful  elegy  on  the  death  of  his  own  child,  a  youth, 


THE  'ABBASIDS  97 

and  it  was  asserted  that  in  reward  for  having  written 
such  fine  verses  his  sins  had  been  forgiven  him.  His 
political  action  proved  his  ruin.  He  came  secretly  to 
Egypt,  bearing  letters  from  Hassan  ibn  Mufarrij,  chief 
of  the  tribe  of  Tai,  to  the  Beni-Qurra,  a  tribe  dwelling 
in  the  province  of  Barqa,  the  ancient  Cyrenaica,  which 
had  just  risen  against  the  Fatimids,  in  support  of  a 
descendant  of  the  Omeyyad  line.  He  was  arrested,  cast 
into  prison  at  Cairo,  and  executed  secretly,  in  1025. 

Abii  Isma'il  al-Hasan  TughrA'1  was  of  Persian  origin, 
and  was  born  at  Ispahan.  He  was  at  once  a  poet,  a 
man  of  learning,  and  a  statesman.  His  surname  signi- 
fies "he  who  traces  'Cn^' tughi'A,"  a  kind  of  design  formed 
of  interlaced  letters,  which  figures  at  the  head  of 
diplomas  and  official  documents,  and  stamps  them  as 
authentic.  The  caligrapher  who  traces  this  sign  is  in 
reality  the  State  Chancellor.  Tughra'i  composed,  at 
Bagdad,  the  Ldmiyyat  al-Ajam  (Ode  in  /  of  the  Non- 
Arabs),  in  opposition  to  Shanfara's  celebrated  Ldmiyyat 
al-Arab.  It  is  an  elegy  on  the  misfortunes  of  the  times. 
At  a  later  date,  the  Seljilqid  Sultan  Mas'ud  appointed 
him  his  minister,  in  his  capital,  Mosul.  When  Mas'ild 
was  defeated  in  the  Battle  of  Hamadhan  (11 21)  by  his 
brother  Mahmiid,  the  poet  was  taken  prisoner,  and  put 
to  death,  on  the  advice  of  the  vizier,  Sumairami,  who 
accused  him  of  atheism.  His  diwdn  contains  numerous 
panegyrics  of  Sultan  Sa'id,  the  son  of  Malikshah,  and 
of  the  great  minister,  Nizam  al-Mulk.  The  Oriental 
scholars  Pococke  and  Golius  have  exercised  their  skill  in 
a  Latin  translation  of  Tijghra'i's  Ldmiyya. 

A  copyist  and  bookseller  of  Bagdad,  Abu'l-Ma'ali 
Sa'd  al-HazIrI  (died  1172),  surnamed  Dallal  al-Kutub 
(the  book-broker),  collected  his  poems,  in  alphabetical 


98  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

order,  into  a  book  called  Luinah  al-mulah,  and  also 
made  a  collection  of  enigmas,  now  preserved  at  Cairo. 
His  Zinat  al-dahr,  an  anthology  of  the  poets  of  his  own 
day  and  those  before  it,  enriched  with  biographies,  and 
his  numerous  compilations,  have  all  disappeared.  Grace- 
ful thoughts,  very  elegantly  expressed,  abound  in  his 
compositions. 

Mu  in  al-Din  Ahmad  ibn  'Abd  al-Razzaq  AL-TANTARANt 
wrote  his  Echo  Ode  {tajjt) — which  Silvestre  de  Sacyhas 
made  known,  and  translated  for  his  Chrestomathie  Arabe 
— in  honour  of  the  great  vizier  of  the  Seljuqid  dynasty, 
Nizam  al-MuIk. 

At  this  period  Syria  saw  the  birth  of  a  philosopher 
who  was  the  last  of  the  great  poets  of  the  Arabic  tongue, 
and  whose  pessimism,  finely  expressed  in  verse,  stirred 
the  admiration  of  many  generations.  Abu'l-'Ala  AL- 
Ma'arrI,  who  was  born  at  Ma'arrat  al-Nu"man,  in 
Northern  Syria,  in  973,  came  of  a  family  descended  from 
the  Yemenite  tribe  of  Tanukh.  When  four  years  old,  he 
had  an  attack  of  smallpox,  and  lost  one  of  his  eyes.  At 
a  later  date  his  healthy  eye,  too,  was  destroyed,  and  he 
became  stone  blind.  In  spite  of  this  he  received  a 
careful  education,  under  the  superintendence  of  his  own 
father,  whose  memory  he  has  immortalised  in  an  elegy. 
After  continuing  his  studies  at  Aleppo,  he  made  a  first 
journey  to  Bagdad,  but  this  visit  did  not  prove  a  success, 
for  he  felt  himself  a  stranger  in  the  place,  and  longed  for 
his  native  town.  Nevertheless  he  returned  the  following 
■year,  to  make  the  acquaintance  of 'Abdal-salam  of  Bassora, 
who  was  at  the  head  of  one  of  the  great  libraries  of  the 
city.  Every  Friday  'Abdal-salam  gathered  about  him  a 
circle  of  freethinkers,  of  which  Abu'l- Ala  soon  became 
a  member.     Some  of  these  men  were  rationalists,  like  the 


THE   'ABBASIDS  99 

Mu  tazilites  ;  others  were  downright  materialists.  Their 
society  exercised  a  powerful  influence  on  the  poet's 
opinions.  When,  however,  he  was  recalled  to  Ma'arra,  at 
the  end  of  a  year  and  seven  months,  by  the  news  of  his 
mother's  illness,  and  arrived  too  late  to  see  her  draw  her 
last  breath,  he  mourned  her  departure  in  verses  full  of 
the  deepest  feeling,  and  never  left  his  native  town  again. 
His  youthful  poetry  has  been  collected  under  the  title  of 
Siqt  al-zand  (Sparks  from  the  Tinder),  and  his  later  poems 
under  that  of  LuzAm  md  lam  yalzam  (Obligation  which 
is  not  Indispensable),  an  allusion  to  his  conquest  of  the 
difficulty  of  a  double  or  triple  rhyme,  which  is  not  indis- 
pensable in  prosody.  He  left  a  collection  of  letters,  and 
a  treatise  on  asceticism  and  preaching,  in  rhymed  prose 
and  verse  He  was  said  to  have  written  a  Koran,  an 
imitation  of  the  Prophet's,  and  possibly  the  mere  banter 
of  a  freethinker.  When  somebody  complained  to  him 
that,  though  his  work  was  well  written,  it  did  not  produce 
the  same  impression  as  the  true  Koran,  he  replied : 
"  Let  it  be  read  from  the  pulpits  of  the  mosques  for  the 
next  four  hundred  years,  and  then  you  will  be  delighted 
with  it  ! " 

IBN  KUSHAJIM  Mahmtid  also  left  a  diwdn  or  collec- 
tion of  poems  arranged  in  alphabetical  order.  He  was 
grandson  of  an  Indian  from  the  banks  of  the  Indus,  and 
lived  at  Ramla.     He  died  about  961. 

Abu'l-Faraj  Muhammad  al- Wa'wa',  of  Damascus, 
was  a  dainty  and  euphuistic  poet,  who  over-indulged 
in  description  and  metaphor.  He  wrote  the  famous 
stanza,  "  She  made  the  narcissus  rain  down  its  pearls, 
watered  the  rose,  and  bit  the  jujubes  with  her  hailstones," 
a  description  which  might  be  taken  for  that  of  a  cloud, 
but  this  would  be  quite  wrong.     It  is  applied  to  a  woman 


lOO  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

— the  pearls  her  tears,  the  rose  her  cheek,  the  hailstones 
her  teeth,  and  the  jujubes  no  other  than  her  rosy  lips. 
These  jests  seemed  charming,  no  doubt,  when  they  were 
first  invented,  but  in  later  days,  repeated  ad  nauseam 
by  thousands  of  poetasters,  in  Persian,  Hindustani,  and 
Turkish,  they  constitute  the  most  wearisome  repetition 
of  empty  formulas  that  can  well  be  imagmed.  Al- 
Wa'wa'  died  at  the  end  of  the  tenth  century. 

Abu  'Abdallah  al-Ablah  was  born,  and  lived,  and 
died,  at  Bagdad.  This  last  event  took  place  towards 
1183.  His  poems,  some  of  which  are  preserved  at  the 
British  Museum,  unite  tenderness  of  feeling  with 
artificiality  of  style.  There  were  not  many  of  them,  but 
they  were  widely  read.  Musicians  took  possession  of 
them,  and  sang  them  to  old  airs.  They  pressed  about 
him  and  begged  him  to  write  more.  His  lines  were 
recited  to  the  author  of  the  Kliarida,  Katib  'Imad 
al-Din,  in  1160.  The  surname  Al-Ablah  signifies  "the 
fool,"  but  it  is  questionable  whether  it  was  not  bestowed 
on  him  in  irony ;  as  the  Arabs  will  call  a  negro 
"Kafur"  (Camphor),  and  we  ourselves  will  dub  him 
"  Boule  de  Neige"  (Snowball). 

Ibn  AL-TA'AWiDHi  (Abii'l  Fath  Muhammad)  was  the 
son  of  'Ubaidallah,  a  freed  Turkish  slave,  whose  real 
name  was  Nflshtakin.  He  was  grandson,  on  the  mater- 
nal side,  of  the  celebrated  ascetic  Ibn  al-Ta'awidhi, 
and  hence  his  surname.  He  was  born  at  Bagdad  in 
1 125,  was  brought  up  by  his  maternal  grandfather,  and 
became  a  secretary  in  the  Office  for  the  Administration  of 
Fiefs.  In  11 83  he  lost  his  eyesight ;  many  of  his  poems 
lament  this  deprivation,  and  regret  the  days  of  his  active 
youth.  Before  the  calamity  befell  him,  he  had  collected 
his  verses  into  a  dtwdn,  which  he  afterwards  completed 


THE  'ABBASIDS  loi 

by  adding  what  he  entitled  ZiyddAt,  or  Additions.  When 
he  became  blind  he  was  still  holding  his  administrative 
post.  He  obtained  the  favour  of  having  his  sons'  names 
registered  instead  of  his  own  on  the  list  of  officials. 
They  seem,  however,  to  have  been  ungrateful,  and  did 
not  support  their  father,  who  addressed  so  touching  a 
poem  to  Caliph  Nasir-Lidinillah,  pleading  for  a  pen- 
sion for  himself,  that  the  Caliph  granted  his  request. 
"  If  that  poem  had  been  recited  to  a  rock  it  would 
have  touched  it,"  says  Ibn  Khallikan.  His  easy  and 
graceful  style  was  much  admired.  Correctness  and 
sweetness  of  expression  are  therein  allied  to  subtlety  of 
thought,  and  all  were  considered  to  possess  extraordinary 
charm.     Al-Ta'awidhi's  death  occurred  in   1188. 

Ibn  al-Muallim  (the  Professor's  Son)  was  the  sur- 
name of  Abu'l-GhanA'im  Muhammad  al-Hurthi,  who 
came  from  Hurth,  near  Wisit,  was  born  in  1108,  and 
died  in  1196.  Pathetic  sentiment  is  the  dominant 
quality  of  his  verse,  and  with  it  we  note  a  natural 
delicacy  of  thought.  His  poetry  is  of  the  amorous  and 
panegyric  orders,  easy  in  sty'e,  and  apt  in  fancy.  It 
met  with  considerable  success,  spread  far  and  wide,  and 
earned  its  author  the  public  esteem,  an  easy  fortune, 
and  an  influential  position.  It  was  much  learnt  by 
heart,  and  preachers  would  quote  it  in  their  sermons. 
Every  ode  he  wrote  was  immediately  committed  to 
memory  by  the  Dervishes  of  the  religious  order  of  the 
Rifaiyya,  who  sang  them  at  their  gatherings,  in  order 
to  work  themselves  into  their  mystic  ecstasies.  The 
songs  of  carnal  love  led  them  up  to  the  divine.  There 
was  a  mutual  jealousy  between  Ibn  al-Muallim  and  Ibn 
al-Ta'AwidhI,  who  addressed  satires  to  each  other.  One 
day,   when   the   first-named   poet    was  passing  a   spot 


I02  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

where  Shaikh  Abil'l-Faraj  Ibn  al-Jauzi  was  wont  to 
deliver  pious  exhortations,  he  saw  a  crowd  blocking  the 
street,  inquired  the  reason,  and  was  told  that  Ibn  al- 
Jauzt  was  about  to  preach  a  sermon.  He  contrived 
to  push  through  the  press,  and  come  near  enough  to 
the  preacher  to  hear  him  say  :  "  Ibn  al-Mu  allim  has 
expressed  a  very  fine  thought  in  this  stanza  :  '  The  re- 
putation of  thy  name  renews,  in  my  ear,  the  pleasure 
of  hearing  it,  and  he  who  repeats  it  seems  to  me 
delightful.'"  To  hear  himself  thus  quoted  made  an 
exquisite  impression  upon  the  poet,  but  neither  the 
preacher  nor  any  of  that  assembly  knew  of  his  presence. 
"Isa  ibn  Sinjar  AL-HAjlRt  served,  like  his  father, 
as  a  soldier  in  the  Turkish  army.  He  was  born  at 
Irbil.  He  was  the  close  friend  of  a  brother  of  Ibn 
Khallikan,  named  Diya  al-din  Isa ;  when  the  Arab 
biographer  left  Irbil  in  1229,  the  poet  was  detained  in 
the  citadel  of  the  town,  "for  reasons  too  lengthy  to 
relate "  ;  he  lightened  the  dulness  of  his  captivity  by 
writing  poems  on  it.  At  a  later  period  he  obtained 
his  liberty,  and  entered  the  service  of  Muzaffar  al-din 
Kilkburi  (the  Blue  Wolf),  who  had  reigned  at  Irbil 
since  1190  ;  he  supported  the  Siifis,  and  wore  their 
dress.  When  his  patron  died  in  1232,  he  left  the  town, 
and  did  not  return  till  Batikin,  an  Armenian  slave,  had 
been  appointed  to  rule  it  in  the  Caliph's  name.  He 
was  stabbed,  one  day,  as  he  was  leaving  his  house,  by  an 
assassin  who  had  been  dogging  his  steps  for  some  time. 
He  expired  before  night,  in  June  1235,  after  writing, 
in  spite  of  his  terrible  wound,  a  poetic  appeal  to 
Batikin's  vengeance.  He  was  barely  fifty  years  of  age. 
The  surname  Al-Hajiri  refers  to  Al-Hijir,  a  village 
in  the  Hijaz.     It  was  not  his  birthplace ;  he  was  born 


THE  "ABBASIDS  103 

at  Irbil ;  the  name  was  bestowed  on  account  of  his 
constant  references  to  the  locahty  in  his  poems.  Here 
we  have  a  telling  instance  of  the  artificiality  of  the 
poetry  of  that  period,  the  authors  of  which,  from  pride 
of  learning,  would  refer  to  places  they  had  never  seen, 
in  which  they  had  never  set  foot,  and  their  only  know- 
ledge of  which  was  drawn  from  the  ancient  Arab  poets. 
Greece  played  the  same  part  in  the  work  of  the  French 
seventeenth  century  poets.  Al-Hajiri's  diwdn  has  been 
collected  and  set  in  order  by  'Umar  ibn  al-Husainl  of 
Damascus,  who  has  arranged  it  in  seven  chapters — the 
ghazals,  or  love-poems  ;  the  verses  written  in  prison  ; 
the  mukhammasdt,  or  five-lined  stanzas  ;  the  isolated 
verses  ;  the  satires ;  the  popular  poetry,  called  mawdli; 
and,  last  of  all,  the  quatrains,  or  dil-bait.  The  volume 
was  printed  at  Cairo  in  1888. 

Another  poet  of  Turkish  origin,  Aidamir  al-Muhyawi, 
surnamed  Fakhr  al-Turk  (the  glory  of  the  Turks),  was 
a  freed  slave  of  Muhyi  al-din  Muhammad  ibn  Sa'Id. 
He  flourished  during  the  first  half  of  the  thirteenth 
century.  He  is  the  poet  of  the  garden  and  of  flowers. 
He  also  wrote  popular  poems,  known  as  inuwashshah. 
Another  writer  of  the  same  type  is  Ibn  al-Hal^wi  of 
Mosul  (Ahmad  ibn  Muhammad),  born  in  1206,  who  was 
court  poet  to  Badr  al-din  Lu'lu',  atdbek  of  Mosul,  and 
died  in  1258.  He  was  one  of  the  dandies  of  the  city, 
a  pleasant  and  good-natured  companion,  but  very 
frivolous-minded.  His  odes  celebrate  the  Caliphs  and 
Kings  of  that  epoch,  such  as  Malik-Nasir  Da'ud,  the 
lord  of  Karak.  When  the  Prince  of  Mosul  went  to 
Persia  to  meet  Hulagu,  the  grandson  of  Jengiz  Khan, 
then  marching  to  the  conquest  of  Bagdid,  his  favourite 
poet  accompanied  him.     But  he  fell  ill  on  the  journey, 


I04  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

and  died  near  SalmSs,  aged  nearly  sixty.  At  the  outset, 
Badr  al-din  Lu'lu',  far  from  treating  the  poet  as  his 
close  confidant,  did  not  even  admit  him  to  his  board 
or  to  his  own  society.  He  merely  employed  him 
on  feast  days,  to  recite  the  panegyrics  he  had  com- 
posed ;  but,  pleased  with  the  poet's  witty  sally  on  the 
subject  of  his  nag,  which  the  prince  had  found  ill  in  a 
garden,  he  adopted  him  as  one  of  his  daily  circle  at 
meals,  and  gave  him  a  pension. 

If  we  cite,  in  addition,  the  names  of  'Izz  al-din  'Abd 
al-Hamid  Ibn  Abi'l-Hadid,  the  Shi'ite  poet  (died  1258), 
author  of  seven  poems  called  al-sab'  al-Alawiyydt, 
on  the  glories  of  the  Prophet,  the  taking  of  Khaibar 
and  of  Mecca,  the  death  of  Husain,  son  of  'Ali,  and 
a  panegyric  of  Caliph  Nasir-Lidinillah — a  manuscript 
copy  of  which  exists  at  Leyden  ;  of  Jamal  al-din 
Yahya  al-Sarsari,  of  Sarsar  near  Bagdad  (died  1258), 
who  performed  the  feat  of  composing  a  poem  in  honour 
of  Mahomet,  every  line  of  which  contains  all  the  letters  in 
the  alphabet,  and  of  summing  up  Hanbalite  law  in  lines 
written  in  the  tawil  metre  ;  of  Majd  al-din  al-Wa  iz  al- 
Witri,  a  preacher  at  Witr  (died  1264),  the  author  of  lines 
in  praise  of  Mahomet  and  on  the  merits  of  pilgrimage ; 
of  Shams  al-din  al-Waiz  al-Kufi  (a  preacher  at  Kufa), 
who  died,  aged  eighty,  in  1276,  and  whose  manu- 
script poems  are  at  Gotha ;  and  of  Majd  al-din  Ibn 
Abi  Shakir  of  Irbil,  who  was  alive  in  1277,  and  one 
of  whose  poems,  Tadhkirat  al-arib,  is  now  in  the  Biblio- 
theque  Nationale  in  Paris,  we  shall  have  reviewed  the 
whole  of  the  poetic  movement  of  which  Bagdad  was 
the  scene. 


THE  'ABBASIDS  ios 

Persia 

The  town  of  Bust  in  Sijistin,  which  enjoyed  a  period 
of  brilhant  prosperity  and  learning  during  the  Middle 
Ages,  and  the  unexplored  ruins  of  which  now  lie  in 
the  desert  stretching  between  Persia  and  Afghanistan, 
gave  birth,  in  971,  to  Abu'1-Fath  'Alt  AL-Bust1,  who,  in 
his  youth,  acted  as  secretary  to  Batyur,  the  chief  of 
the  town,  and  passed  into  the  service  of  the  Turkish 
chief,  Sabuktakin,  father  of  the  -celebrated  Mahmud 
the  Ghaznevid,  when  he  defeated  the  ruler  of  Bust. 
Al-Busti  died  at  Bukhara  during  Mahmud's  reign,  in 
loio.  His  works,  poetic  and  prose,  were  especially 
admired  on  account  of  his  use,  or,  let  us  say,  abuse, 
of  alliteration.  An  extract  from  his  diwdn  is  preserved 
at  Leyden.  His  most  famous  qasida,  know  as  Qasidai 
al-Busti,  on  which  several  commentaries  have  been 
written,  is  pretty  frequently  found  in  European  libraries. 

Abu  Mansfir  'Ali  ibn  al-Hasan  is  known  by  the  sur- 
name of  SuRR-DuRR  (Purse  of  Pearls),  bestowed  on 
him  for  his  poetic  talent,  whereas  his  father  was  dubbed 
Surr-Ba'r  (Purse  of  Dung)  on  account  of  his  avarice. 
This  we  learn  from  Abu  Ja'far  Mas'iid  al-Bayadl's 
satirical  verses.  But  he  had  the  bad  taste  to  add: 
"What  your  father  had  garnered,  you,  ungrateful,  have 
squandered.  And  you  call  it  poetry  ! "  This  is  not 
just,  for  Surr-Durr's  verses  are  charming.  We  know 
scarcely  anything  about  his  life.  He  was  born  before 
1009.  He  was  at  Wasit  when  Fakhr  al-daula  Muham- 
mad ibn  Jahir  was  made  vizier,  and  congratulated 
him  on  his  appointment.  He  was  killed  by  an  accident 
in  1072.  A  pit  to  catch  lions  had  been  dug  close  to 
a  village  on  the  road  to  Khurasan,  and  he  fell  into  it. 


io6  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

The  study  of  Shaffite  law  did  not  hinder  the  develop- 
ment of  the  poetic  powers  of  Abu'l-Hasan  'Ali  al- 
BakharzI.  He  practised  the  art  of  penmanship,  and 
was  occasionally  employed  in  the  offices  of  the  State 
Secretary.  He  was  born  at  Bakharz,  the  chief  town 
of  a  district  between  Nishapur  and  Herat  in  Khurasan. 
His  life  was  spent  in  alternate  wealth  and  poverty,  and 
he  went  through  extraordinary  vicissitudes  during  his 
journeys  to,  and  sojourns  in,  various  towns.  Besides 
his  own  dtwdn  he  wrote  a  continuation,  carried  up  to 
the  450th  year  of  the  Hegira,  of  Tha'alibi's  Yatimat 
al-Dahr,  under  the  title  of  Duniyat  al-qasr  (Statue  of  the 
Palace).  This,  like  the  work  it  carried  on,  was  a  poetical 
anthology.  He  was  murdered  in  the  midst  of  a  pleasure 
party  in  his  native  town  during  the  summer  of  1075,  and 
the  crime  remained  unpunished. 

A  member  of  the  sacred  family  of  Hashim,  a  de- 
scendant of  Ibn  'Abbas,  Sharif  Abu  Ya'la  Muhammad, 
better  known  as  IBN  al-Habbariyya,  was  born  at 
Bagdad.  His  talent  was  great,  and  his  tongue  bitter. 
Nobody  escaped  his  satire.  He  was  one  of  the  circle 
of  poets  which  surrounded  Nizam  al-Mulk,  the  great 
Seljuqid  vizier.  His  favourite  forms  of  composition  were 
satires  and  humorous  and  obscene  poems.  "When 
he  condescends  to  respect  decency,  his  poems  are  of 
a  high  order  of  beauty,"  writes  KatibTmad  al-din  in  his 
Kharida.  Nizam  al-Mulk  treated  him  with  the  most 
excessive  indulgence.  A  spirit  of  hatred  and  jealousy 
had  grown  up  between  the  vizier  and  Taj  al-Mulk 
Ibn  Darest,  secretary  to  Turkan-Khatun,  Malik-Shah's 
wife,  who,  indeed,  succeeded  him  when  he  died.  This 
secretary  asked  Ibn  al-Habbariyya  to  compose  a  satire 
on    Nizam  al-Mulk,  promising  him    a    rich   reward   and 


THE  'ABBASIDS  107 

all  the  weight  of  his  favour  and  support.  "  How  can 
I  attack  a  man  to  whose  kindness  I  owe  everything 
I  see  in  my  house  ? "  asked  the  poet.  Nevertheless, 
being  pressed  by  Ibn  Direst,  he  wrote  the  following 
hnes  :  "What  wonder  is  it  that  Nizam  al-Mulk  should 
rule,  and  that  Fate  should  be  on  his  side  ?  Fortune  j 
is  like  the  water-wheel  which  raises  water  from  the  well 
— none  but  oxen  can  turn  it ! "  When  the  vizier  was 
told  of  this  spiteful  attack  he  only  remarked  that  the 
poet  had  simply  intended  to  allude  to  his  origin — he 
came  from  Tiis  in  Khurasan,  and,  according  to  the 
popular  saying,  all  the  men  of  Tus  are  oxen  (we  should 
say  asses,  nowadays)  ;  not  only  did  he  abstain  from  in- 
flicting any  punishment  on  the  poet — he  even  rewarded 
him,  and  took  him  into  higher  favour  than  before. 
This  noble  behaviour  and  proof  of  extreme  indulgence 
is,  on  account  of  its  rarity,  greatly  admired  by  the 
Orientals,  who,  irascible  and  prone  to  vengeance  as 
they  are,  are  little  accustomed  to  anything  of  the  kind. 
As  a  specimen  of  the  poet's  humorous  efforts,  the  fol- 
lowing lines  are  quoted  :  "  When  Abu  Sa'id  perceived 
that  I  had  abstained  from  wine  for  a  whole  year,  he 
said  to  me  :  '  Who  is  the  Shaikh  who  has  converted  you 
to  a  more  honourable  way  of  life  ? '  and  I  replied :  '  That 
Shaikh  is  Poverty  ! '  " 

One  of  his  most  original  productions  is  a  collection  of 
apologues,  fables,  and  moral  maxims,  on  the  plan  of 
Kaltla  wa-Dimna ;  this  work  bears  the  title  oi  Al-sddih 
wd l-bdghim  (He  who  Speaks  Low  and  Whispers) ;  it  is 
in  verse,  in  the  rajas  metre,  two  thousand  lines  in  all, 
and  the  author  spent  ten  years  in  writing  it.  He  dedi- 
cated it  to  Abij'l-Hasan  Sadaqa  al-Mazyadi,  the  lord 
of  Hilla,  a  town  on  the  site  of  the  ancient  Babylon,  and 


lo8  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

sent  him  the  manuscript  by  his  son's  hand,  with  an 
apology  for  being  unable  to  bring  it  himself.  A  liberal 
gift  was  his  reward.  This  book  is  also  known  under  the 
name  of  Nataij  al-fitna  (Results  of  Discord).  The  poet 
relates  that  once,  when  on  a  journey,  he  woke  up  in 
the  night,  and  heard  a  Hindoo  and  a  Persian  discussing 
the  pre-eminence  of  their  respective  countries.  Each 
quoted  fables  and  apologues  to  support  his  arguments. 
Such  is  the  general  plan  of  the  work,  a  considerable  part 
of  which  has  been  translated  by  Hammer  into  German 
verse,  and  published  in  the  Wiener  Jahrbucher.  It  was 
printed  at  Cairo  and  at  Beyrout.  As  for  Ibn  al-Hab- 
bariyya,  he  died  in  iiio,  at  Kirman,  where  he  spent 
the  closing  years  of  his  life,  after  having  resided  for  a 
considerable  time  at  Ispahan. 

Although  Abu'l-Muzaffar  Muhammad  AL-Ab1ward1 
came  into  the  world  on  Persian  soil,  at  Kufan,  a 
small  village  in  Khurasan,  some  six  leagues  from 
Abiward,  he  was  a  man  of  pure  Arab  blood  and  of  a 
noble  family,  that  of  the  Omeyyad  Caliphs,  belong- 
ing to  the  tribe  of  Quraish.  He  won  great  celebrity 
as  a  poet,  but  he  was  also  a  student,  learned  in 
tradition  and  genealogy.  His  poetical  works  are  classed 
under  three  headings  :  ''Irdqtydt  (poems  touching 
'Iraq),  youthful  effusions,  and  panegyrics  of  Caliphs 
and  their  ministers ;  Najdiydt  (poems  in  praise  of 
Najd,  or  Central  Arabia,  the  Arcady  of  the  Oriental 
poet) ;  and  Wajdiydt  (erotic  poems).  His  History  of 
the  Cities  of  Abiward  and  Nasd  is  unfortunately  lost. 
His  illustrious  origin  had  inspired  him  with  excessive 
vanity,  pride,  and  arrogance.  He  habitually  prayed 
in  these  words  :  "  Almighty  God  !  make  me  king 
of  the  East  and  the   West  of  the  earth  ! "     Now  and 


THE  'ABBASIDS  109 

again  the  scion  of  the  Omeyyads  betrays  himself  in  his 
poetry.  "We  reigned  over  the  kingdoms  of  the  earth," 
he  says,  "  and  their  great  men  submitted  themselves  to 
us,  whether  they  would  or  no."  His  life  was  virtuous, 
and  his  conduct  exemplary.  He  died  of  poison,  at 
Ispahan,  on  the  afternoon  of  the  4th  of  September  1113. 

Ibn  al-Khayyat  (the  Son  of  the  Tailor)  was  of  Syrian 
origin.  He  was  born  at  Damascus  in  1058.  He  had 
earned  the  honorary  title  of  Shihab  al-din  (Luminary  of 
Religion),  and  was  a  Government  servant  until  he  began  to 
travel,  A  wandering  troubadour,  he  composed  eulogies 
on  the  great  dignitaries  he  met  on  his  travels,  and  thus 
made  his  way  into  Persia,  where  he  died  in  1123.  At 
Aleppo  he  met  the  poet  Abu'l-Fityan  Ibn  Hayyils,  and 
presented  him  with  his  poems.  This  elicited  from  the 
elder  poet  the  remark  that  the  young  man's  arrival 
betokened  his  own  approaching  death,  because  it  was  a 
rare  occurrence  in  any  profession  when  the  appearance 
of  a  first-rate  master  did  not  portend  the  speedy  demise 
of  the  oldest  of  his  peers.  Al-Khayyit's  diwdn,  which 
was  collected  within  a  year  of  his  death,  and  was  ex- 
ceedingly widely  read  in  the  Middle  Ages,  is  preserved  at 
the  Escurial  and  at  Copenhagen. 

At  the  same  period,  the  town  of  Gaza,  in  Palestine, 
also  produced  its  poet,  in  the  person  of  Abu  Ishaq 
Ibrahim  ibn  Yahya  al-KalbJ  al-Ghazz1,  born  1049.  He 
went  to  Damascus  to  study  law,  in  1088,  thence  proceeded 
to  Bagdad,  and  lived  there  some  years,  in  the  Nizamiyya 
College,  composing  elegies  and  panegyrics.  At  last 
he  departed  to  Khurisan,  where  he  found  matter  for 
the  praise  of  princes  who  rewarded  his  eulogies  most 
generously.  Here  it  was  that  his  work  first  found 
admirers.       He  himself  made   a   selection   of   his  best 


no  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

poems,  and  collected  them  into  a  volume  containing 
about  five  thousand  lines.  Al-Ghazzi  travelled  a  great 
deal,  went  as  far  as  Kirm&n,  and  sang  the  praise  of 
the  governor  of  that  country,  Nasr  al-din  Mukram  ibn 
al-'Ala. 

He  died  in  1130,  on  the  road  between  Merv  and  Balkh, 
and  was  buried  in  the  latter  town.  When  he  felt  the 
approach  of  death  he  exclaimed  :  "  I  hope  God  will  for- 
give me,  for  three  reasons.  I  am  the  compatriot  of 
al-Shafi'i,  I  am  an  old  man,  and  I  am  far  from  my 
own  kin." 

Nasih  al-din  AL-ARRAJANt  (1068-1149)  belonged,  to  a 
family  which  traced  its  noble  descent  from  the  Ansars,  or 
Medina  auxiliaries,  who  championed  the  Prophet's  cause 
against  the  Meccans.  He  was  a  magistrate,  assistant  $'«^/' 
at  Shustar  and  at  'Askar-Mukram,  was  born  at  Arrajan 
near  Al-Ahwaz  in  Susiana,  and  studied  at  the  Nizamiyya 
College  at  Ispahan.  He  began  to  write  some  years  sub- 
sequent to  1087,  towards  the  period  of  the  death  of  Nizam 
al-Mulk,  and  continued  till  his  own.  His  position  as 
assistant  to  the  regular  qddis  was  a  source  of  amusenaent 
to  him.  He  mentions  it  in  his  lines  :  "That  I  should 
act  as  assistant  in  such  a  profession  is  one  of  fortune's 
tricks.  It  is  a  miracle  that  I  have  enough  patience  to 
endure  such  changes;"  and  again  :  "I  am  without  con- 
tradiction the  most  poetic  jurist  of  my  time,  and  at  least 
I  am  the  most  learned  Doctor  of  Laws  amongst  its 
poets  ! "  His  diwdn,  which  is  principally  composed  of 
rather  lengthy  apologues,  was  collected  by  his  son. 

'Amid  al-din  As' ad  ibn  Nasr  AL-Abarz1,  born  at  Abarz 
in  the  province  of  Pars,  was  vizier  to  the  atdbek  Muz- 
affar  al-din  Sa'd  ibn  Zangi ;  in  the  time  of  Abu  Bakr, 
the  patron  of  the  poet  Sa'di,  he  was  dismissed,  and  im- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  II r 

prisoned  as  a  traitor  in  the  state  prison  at  Ushkunwan, 
one  of  the  three  fortresses  which  crown  the  site  of 
Persepolis  (this  was  at  the  close  of  1226),  and  there  died 
within  a  few  months.  During  his  incarceration,  he  com- 
posed an  ode  which  was  preserved  by  his  son  Taj 
al-din  Muhammad,  and  is  still  famous  throughout 
Persia.  It  is  remarkable  for  its  involved  and  diffuse 
style,  and  is  full  of  conventional  expressions  learnt  at 
school,  traversed,  here  and  there,  by  a  breath  of  true  and 
genuine  poetry.  It  has  been  published  and  translated 
into  French  by  the  writer  of  these  pages. 

Among  the  Persian  poets  who  wrote  in  Arabic,  Sa'dI, 
the  charming  author  of  Gulistdn  and  BAstdn,  those 
twin  blossoms  of  Iranian  poetry,  must  not  be  forgotten. 
Sa'di  composed  Arabic  qasidas,  the  first  of  which  is  an 
elegy  on  the  taking  of  Bagdad  by  the  Mongols  and 
the  death  of  the  last  'Abbasid  Caliph.  He  wrote  the 
language  as  if  it  were  his  own,  with  that  wonderful 
simplicity  and  inimitable  artlessness  which  distinguish 
him  from  all  his  Persian  fellow-poets.  At  the  same  time 
his  lines  are  full  of  touching  and  pathetic  feeling.  His 
odes  are  twenty  in  number.  He  was  born  at  Shiriz,  the 
capital  of  Fars,  about  1184,  lost  his  father,  who  was  in  the 
service  of  the  atdbek  Sa'd  ibn  ZangJ,  at  an  early  age, 
went  to  Bagdad  to  attend  the  Nizamiyya  University 
course,  made  the  Mecca  pilgrimage  several  times  over, 
acted,  out  of  charity,  as  a  water-carrier  in  the  markets  of 
Jerusalem  and  the  Syrian  towns,  was  taken  prisoner  by 
the  Franks,  and  forced  to  work  with  Jews  at  cleaning  out 
the  moats  of  Tripoli  in  Syria  ;  he  was  ransomed  by 
an  Aleppan,  who  gave  him  his  daughter  in  marriage. 
He  himself  mentions  his  visits  to  Kashgar  in  Turkestan, 
to  Abyssinia,  and  Asia  Minor.    He  travelled  about  India, 


112  ARABIC    LITERATUKE 

passing  through  Afghanistan  on  his  way  there.  He 
closed  his  wandering  career  by  settling  down  in  a  hermit- 
age outside  the  town  of  Shiraz,  close  to  the  source  of  the 
Rukn-Abad  canal.  There  he  died,  over  a  hundred  years 
old,  in  1291,  and  there,  too,  he  was  buried. 

Arabia 

Arabia  is  no  longer  that  which  she  was  in  the  olden 
days,  the  cradle  of  poetry,  yet  the  sacred  torch  is  not 
wholly  extinguished.  In  Yemen  we  discover,  in  1058,  a 
native  poet,  'Abd  al-Rahim  AL-BUR't,  whose  verses  are 
full  of  mystic  and  religious  feeling.  A  hundred  years 
later,  and  in  the  same  region,  another  Sufi  poet,  Abu'l- 
Hasan  Ibn  Khuraartash,  the  Himyarite,  composed, 
when  twenty-two  years  of  age,  a  mystic  ode  on  which 
commentaries  were  afterwards  written.  In  the  province 
of  Bahrain  we  find  a  poet  named  'Ali  ibn  Muqarrab  ibn 
Mansur  al-Ibr3.himi,  who  belonged  to  the  family  of  the 
'Uyflnids,  which,  after  the  expulsion  of  the  Carmathians, 
founded  a  State  held  in  fief  from  the  Caliphs  of  Bagdad. 
After  living  at  the  court  of  his  great-uncle,  Muhammad, 
and  his  son,  Mas'ud,  he  quarrelled  with  the  last-named 
ruler,  and  fled  to  Mosul,  where  the  geographer  Yaqut 
met  him  in  1220,  and  thence  to  Bagdad,  where  he  died, 
probably  in  1234.  His  panegyrics  were  successively 
addressed  to  his  'Uyunid  kinsmen,  to  the  'Abbasid 
Caliph  Nasir-Lidinillah,  and  to  Badr  al-din  Lu'lu', 
Prince  of  Mosul.  To  conclude,  a  poet  of  Syrian  birth, 
Amin  al-daula  Abu'l-Ghana'im  Muslim,  who  came  from 
Shaizar  on  the  Orontes,  dedicated  his  poetical  anthology, 
entitled  Jamharat  al-isldm,  to  the  last  of  the  Ayyubite 
princes  of  Yemen,  Malik  Mas  dd  Salah  al-din. 


THE   'ABBASIDS  113 

Egypt 

Alexandria  saw  the  birth,  in  1137,  of  Ibn  Qalaqis 
(Aba'l-Futuh  Nasr-allah),  also  called  Al-Qddi  al-aass 
(the  most  illustrious  Judge),  whose  beard  grew  so  thin 
that  his  face  looked  quite  smooth,  a  peculiarity  for  which 
he  was  greatly  ridiculed.  Yet  he  was  a  talented  poet. 
Leaving  Egypt,  in  consequence  of  the  disturbances 
following  on  Saladin's  establishment  there,  he  proceeded 
to  Sicily,  where  he  made  the  acquaintance  of  a  Moslem 
chief  named  Abil'l-Qasim  ibn  al-Hajar — a  proof  that 
under  William  II.,  the  third  Norman  king  of  that  island, 
the  Moslem  leaders  continued  to  hold  exalted  positions. 
Being  generously  treated  by  him,  he  dedicated  a  work, 
now  lost,  called  Al-zahr  al-bdsim  (the  Flower  that  Smiles), 
to  his  benefactor.  At  that  time  there  was  an  Egyptian 
Ambassador  in  Sicily.  Ibn  Qalaqis  desired  to  take 
advantage  of  his  return  journey  to  get  back  to  Alex- 
andria, but,  it  being  the  winter  season,  contrary  winds 
drove  the  vessel  on  which  the  travellers  had  embarked 
back  to  her  starting-point.  Later  the  poet  went  to 
Yemen,  and  lived  for  some  time  at  Aden.  Then  he  tried 
to  go  back  to  Egypt,  but  his  ship  was  wrecked  near  the 
Isle  of  Dahlak,  in  the  Red  Sea,  and  he  was  fain  to 
get  him  back  to  Aden,  having  lost  his  whole  fortune, 
the  fruit  of  the  generosity  shown  him  by  AbQ'l-Faraj 
Yasir,  minister  to  the  ruler  of  that  city.  He  returned  to 
his  patron  almost  naked,  nth  August  1168. 

He  died  at  'Aidhab,  a  small  port  near  Jedda,  on 
29th  May  1172.  He  said  of  himself,  referring  to  his 
many  journeys:  "There  are  many  men  in  this  world, 
but  I  am  fated  to  have  no  companions  save  sailors  and 
camel-drivers." 


114  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Yet  another  Egyptian  magistrate  whose  serious  avo- 
cations did  not  prevent  his  successful  cultivation  of 
polite  literature  was  Hibat-Allah  Ibn  Sana  al-Mulk,  sur- 
named  Al-Qadi  al-sd-id  (the  lucky  Judge).  He  was  born 
in  1 150,  and  in  March  1176  he  proceeded  to  Syria, 
whither  his  patron,  Al-Qadi  al-Fadil  Mujir  al-din  of 
Ascalon,  minister  to  Saladin,  had  accompanied  his 
master,  and  where  his  reputation  had  already  preceded 
him.  Here  the  Katib  'Imad  al-din,  author  of  the 
Kharida,  met  him,  and  thought  his  intelligence  mar- 
vellous. His  merits  and  talents  alone  carried  him  to  the 
high  position  he  held,  and  earned  him  fortune's  favours. 
He  died  at  Cairo  in  1211. 

The  one  diwdn  of  his  which  has  come  down  to  us, 
the  Ddr  al-tirdz  (Storehouse  of  Embroideries),  consists 
in  large  measure  of  popular  poems,  known  as  muwash- 
shahdt ;  the  Fusus  al-fusiil  is  an  anthology  of  scattered 
verse  and  prose  extracted  from  his  literary  correspond- 
ence. At  Cairo  he  was  one  of  a  circle  of  poets  who  had 
meetings  in  the  course  of  which  they  held  pleasant  con- 
verse— gratuitous  academies,  which,  if  properly  organised, 
would  possibly  have  become  quite  as  famous  as  many 
another. 

Kamal  al-din  Ibn  al-Nabih  was  the  panegyrist  of  the 
Ayyubite  princes.  At  a  later  date  he  entered  the 
service  of  Al-Malik  al-Ashraf  Musft,  Prince  of  Nasibin, 
in  Mesopotamia,  as  his  secretary,  and  he  died  in  that 
town  in  1222.  His  diwdn  was  printed  at  Beyrout  in 
1882.  One  of  his  poems,  translated  into  English,  ap- 
pears in  Carlyle's  Specimens  of  Arabian  Poetry.  His 
lighter  work  is  full  of  afifectation  and  play  on  words. 

The  greatest  mystic  poet  of  the  Arabs, 'Umar  Ibn  al- 
Farid,  was  born  at  Cairo  in  1181,  and  died  in  that  city 


THE  'ABBASIDS  115 

ill  1235,  after  a  prolonged  sojourn  at  Mecca.  His  diwdn 
was  collected  and  arranged  by  his  grandson  'Ali.  His 
Arabic  works  are  a  perfect  model  of  the  style  used  by 
the  Siifis  to  describe  their  ecstasies.  These  pantheistic 
philosophers,  as  my  readers  know,  sang  the  praises  of 
the  love  of  the  Divine,  and  the  longing  for  absorption 
into  the  great  All,  borrowing  the  most  burning  imagery 
from  human  life,  and  even  going  so  far  as  to  seek,  in  the 
use  and  abuse  of  wine,  a  state  of  exaltation  which,  as 
they  believed,  carried  them  closer  to  the  Supreme  Being. 
Hence  one  of  Ibn  Farid's  odes  is  devoted  to  the  praise 
of  wine. 

A  secretary  in  the  Egyptian  Government,  and  court 
poet  to  the  Ayyubites,  Baha  al-Din  Zuhair  al-Mu- 
hallabi,  died  ih  1258,  leaving  a  diwdn  whicli  was  pub- 
lished and  translated  into  English  by  E.  H.  Palmer.  In  his 
work  we  realise  how  supple  the  Arab  tongue  had  grown, 
and  how  fitted  to  the  apt  expression  of  the  innumerable 
refinements  of  feelings  polished  by  the  brilliant  era  of 
civilisation  which  followed  on  that  of  Saladin. 

Sharaf  al-din  Muhammad  AL-BusiRt  (1211-1294) 
has  earned  universal  renown  in  the  Moslem  world  by 
his  ode  to  the  Prophet's  mantle  {Qasidat  al-Burdd), 
an  imitation  of  Ka'b  ibn  Zuhair's  panegyric.  Many 
commentators  have  expounded  the  beauties  of  this 
work.  Monsieur  R.  Basset  has  translated  it  into 
French,  and  there  are  also  German  translations,  and 
one  into  English.  Moreover,  poets  have  entertained 
themselves  by  writing  paraphrases  of  it,  called  takhmis 
— three  couplets  of  padding,  which,  with  two  more 
of  the  original  Arabic,  make  up  five.  Other  pane- 
gyrics of  the  Prophet  are  also  due  to  Biisiri's  inspired 
pen ;  an  ode  called  Unini  al-Qurd  (the  Mother  of  Cities, 


ii6  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

a   surname    applied    to    Mecca),  and   four   others   of   a' 
similar  nature. 

Jamil  al-din  Yahyi  IBN  MatrOh  was  born  at  Siout 
in  Upper  Egypt,  on  the  8th  of  June  1196.  There  he 
spent  his  early  years,  and  pursued  the  studies  which 
enabled  him  to  enter  the  civil  department  of  the 
Government.  After  filling  various  posts,  he  was  taken 
into  the  service  of  the  Ayyubite  Prince  Al-Malik  al- 
Salih  Najm  al-din,  son  of  Malik-Kamil,  and  his  lieu- 
tenant in  Egypt,  and  accompanied  the  prince  when  his 
father  sent  him  to  govern  his  newly  acquired  Eastern 
possessions  in  'Iraq  and  Mesopotamia  (1231) ;  he  was 
also  in  attendance  on  him  when  he  returned  to  Egypt 
in  1240,  and  was  appointed  Steward  of  the  Treasury. 
When  his  master  was  invested,  for  the  second  time, 
with  the  Principality  of  Damascus,  Ibn  Matruh  was 
appointed  to  govern  the  city  and  surrounding  district, 
with  the  title  of  vizier.  Then  he  received  orders  to  march 
with  an  army  and  retake  the  town  of  Hims,  which  had 
fallen  into  the  hands  of  Malik-Nasir.  While  the  siege 
was  proceeding,  the  Sultan  learnt  that  the  Crusaders 
were  collecting  at  Cyprus,  with  a  view  to  attacking  Egypt. 
He  hastily  recalled  his  troops  into  that  country,  and  Ibn 
Matruh,  for  certain  acts  which  had  displeased  the  ruler, 
fell  into  disfavour.  Yet  in  spite  of  his  disgrace  he 
continued  to  perform  his  duties  about  his  master's 
person.  Damietta  had  been  captured  by  St.  Louis  on 
the  nth  of  June  1249.  AI-Malik  al-Salih  encamped  at 
Mansura,  and  died  there  on  23rd  November  of  the  same 
year.  Then  Ibn  Matruh  went  back  to  Old  Cairo,  and 
dwelt  there  in  his  own  house  till  he  died  on  19th 
October  1251.  He  was  the  friend  of  Ibn  Khallikan, 
who    describes    him   as    a    man    of    great    powers   and 


THE  'ABBASIDS  117 

amiable  temper,  who,  with  these  merits,  possessed  the 
most  estimable  qualities  of  the  heart.  They  kept  up  a 
correspondence  when  they  were  apart,  and  when  they 
met  they  spent  their  time  in  literary  discussions  and 
amusing  talk.  Ibn  Matrlah  recited  his  verses  to  his 
friend,  who  inserted  some  of  them  in  his  Biographical 
Dictionary.  When,  after  his  patron's  death,  he  retired 
from  public  life,  his  want  of  occupation  weighed  heavily 
upon  him.  He  suffered  from  a  disease  of  the  eyes  which 
became  incurable,  and  finally  deprived  him  of  his  sight. 
When  quite  young,  in  Upper  Egypt,  he  had  known 
Baha  al-din  Zuhair  ;  they  were  like  two  brothers.  Later 
in  life,  they  kept  up  a  correspondence  in  verse.  Ibn 
Matruh's  diwdn  was  published  at  Constantinople  in 
1881.  It  contains  a  poem  on  the  Battle  of  Mansura, 
which  was  won  by  Malik-Muazzam,  and  in  which  St. 
Louis  was  taken  prisoner. 

Syria 

The  filiation  of  IBN  al-Sa'at1  leads  us  to  assign  him 
an  Iranian  origin,  for  his  father's  name  was  Rustam  and 
his  grandfather's  Hardiiz.  He  was  born  at  Damascus 
in  1161.  Owing  to  some  unknown  circumstances,  he 
spent  his  life  in  Egypt,  sang  the  praises  of  that  country 
in  his  poems,  and  died  there,  at  Cairo,  in  March  1208. 
He  left  two  collections  of  verses  behind  him — a  large 
one,  still  preserved  in  the  Mosque  of  St.  Sophia,  and  a 
smaller,  bearing  the  title  Muqattadt  al-NU  (Fragments 
touching  the  Nile),  in  which,  amongst  other  descrip- 
tions, he  gives  us  one,  in  elegant  and  much  admired 
language,  of  the  delights  of  a  day  and  night  spent  at 
Siout,  in   Upper  Egypt.     His  verses  are  full   of  ideas 


ii8  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

which  Orientals  think  exquisite,  but  which  strike  us  as 
finical  and  affected. 

The  dtwdn,  in  four  volumes,  of  Shihab  al-din  Yusuf 
ibn  Ismail,  of  Aleppo,  surnamed  Al-ShawwA  (the 
Cookshop-keeper),  has  disappeared.  He  was  born  in 
Aleppo  in  1166,  and  acquired  great  technical  skill  in 
the  art  of  versification.  He  was  fond  of  introducing 
grammatical  expressions  into  his  verses ;  he  composed 
little  poems  of  two  or  three  lines,  containing  original  and 
carefully  studied  ideas.  He  was  on  terms  of  friendship 
with  the  biographer  Ibn  Khallikan,  who  liked  to  discuss 
the  difficulties  and  subtleties  of  Arab  grammar  with  him. 
They  were  inseparable  from  1236,  till  Al-Shawwa  died, 
in  the  following  year.  He  belonged  to  the  most  extreme 
section  of  the  Shi'ite  sect,  and  believed 'Ali  and  the  imams, 
his  descendants,  to  be  incarnations  of  Divinity. 

'Abdal-Muhsin  ibn  Hamud  al-Tanukhi  (i  174-1245) 
had  learnt  much  in  many  journeys,  and  entered  the 
service  of  the  Mameluke  'Izz  al-din  Aibek,  Prince  of 
Sarkhad.  He  was  first  of  all  his  secretary,  and  then 
his  minister,  which  last  position  he  held  till  the  prince 
was  murdered  in  1229.  He  left,  amongst  other  works, 
the  Miftdh  al-Afrdh  fi'mtiddh  al-rdh  (Key  of  Delights, 
Praise  of  Wine),  a  collection  of  Bacchic  poetry  in  the 
manner  of  Abu  Nuwas. 

Nur  al-din  Muhammad  al-Is'irdi  (i 222-1 254),  born  at 
Seert,  was  one  of  the  poets  most  favoured  by  Malik 
al-Nasir,  the  Ayyubite  Prince  of  Aleppo,  to  whom 
he  had  specially  attached  himself,  and  to  whom,  too, 
he  dedicated  his  Ndsiriyydt,  panegyrics,  now  at  the 
Escurial.  He  was  bold  and  shameless.  One  of  his 
odes  is  devoted  to  the  defence  of  wine  against  hashish. 

Ibn    al-Saffar  (the   Son   of  the   Coppersmith)  (1179- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  1.19 

1260),  of  Maridin,  otherwise  called  Jal^l  al-din  'Ali 
ibn  Yusuf,  was  secretary  in  the  service  of  the  Ur- 
tuqid  Prince  al-Malik  al-Mansur,  and  perished  at  the 
taking  of  the  fortress  by  the  Mongols.  His  poems, 
loose  and  erotic,  are  among  the  manuscripts  preserved 
at  Gotha. 

Najm  al-din  Abu'l-Ma'ali  Ibn  Isra'il  (Muhammad 
ibn  Sawwar)  (1206-1278)  was  born  at  Damascus,  and 
died  in  the  same  city.  He  was  a  dervish,  who  retired 
from  the  world  and  travelled  about.  His  dtwdn  is  in 
the  Escurial. 

Ibn  Munir  al-TarAbulusI  (Abu'l-Husain  Ahmad) 
(1080-1153)  was  the  son  of  a  wandering  singer,  who 
recited  poems  in  the  market-places  of  Tripoli  in  Syria, 
where  he  was  born  ;  as  he  grew  up,  he  learnt  the  Koran 
by  heart,  studied  grammar  and  philology,  and  began 
to  write  poetry  on  his  own  account.  He  went  to 
Damascus  and  settled  there.  His  religious  views  were 
Shi'ite.  His  satires  were  so  many,  and  his  language  so 
caustic,  that  Biari,  son  of  the  atdbek  Tughtakin,  and 
Prince  of  Damascus,  cast  him  into  prison  for  some 
time,  and  would  have  had  his  tongue  cut  out,  but  in- 
fluential intervention  saved  the  poet  from  this  torture, 
and  he  was  banished  from  the  city  instead.  He  went 
to  Aleppo,  where  he  died,  and  was  buried  on  the  hill 
of  Jaushan,  outside  the  town,  where  the  biographer 
Ibn  Khallikan  saw  his  tomb.  The  atdbek  'Imad  al-din 
Zangi  was  laying  siege  to  the  Castle  of  Jabar  when 
he  heard  his  musician  singing  some  lines  by  Ibn  Munir 
which  took  his  fancy ;  he  gave  orders  that  their  author 
should  attend  him  with  all  haste ;  but  on  the  very  night 
of  the  poet's  arrival  in  camp,  the  atdbek  was  murdered, 
and  his  army  retired  to  Aleppo,  carrying  the  discomfited 


I20  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

poet  along  with  it.  His  enemy,  Ibn  al-Qaisarani,  at 
whom  he  had  so  often  scoffed,  declaring  he  had  the 
evil  eye,  sent  him  ironical  congratulations  on  his  ad- 
venture. Ibn  Munir's  poetry  is  eminently  refined.  His 
qasida  al-Tatariyya,  an  ode  in  ninety-one  lines  on  his 
slave  Tatar,  whom  he  sent  with  presents  to  Sharif  Al- 
Musawi,  and  who  was  by  him  detained,  is  preserved 
in  the  Berlin  Library.  He  gives  it  to  be  understood 
in  this  poem  that  he  would  be  ready  to  renounce  his 
profession  of  Shi'ite  opinions  if  only  he  might  regain 
possession  of  his  servant. 

The  son  of  the  chief  of  a  tribe  of  desert  Arabs,  and 
therefore  surnamed  Al-Amir,  IBN  HayyOs  was  born 
at  Damascus  on  27th  December  1003.  His  real  name 
was  Abil'l  -  Fityan  Miihammad  ibn  Sultan.  Hayyus 
was  his  grandfather.  He  was  on  terms  of  intercourse 
with  many  princes  and  great  personages,  who  rewarded 
him  richly  for  the  praises  he  heaped  upon  them  ; 
but  he  attached  himself  more  particularly  to  the  Beni- 
Mirdis,  then  the  reigning  family  of  Aleppo,  to  which 
town  he  went  in  1072.  Mahmud  ibn  Nasr,  one  of 
the  princes  of  this  dynasty,  had  presented  him  with  a 
thousand  gold  pieces.  When  Mahmud  died  in  1075, 
the  poet  sought  the  presence  of  his  son  and  successor, 
Jalal  al-daula  Nasr,  to  offer  him  compliments  and 
condolence  in  verse.  In  the  course  of  his  poem  he 
said  :  "  Mahmud  gave  me  one  thousand  pieces  of  gold 
out  of  his  treasury ;  I  know  for  a  certainty  that  his 
son  Nasr  will  do  the  same."  This  elegy  so  de- 
lighted Nasr  that  he  exclaimed :  "  If,  instead  of  saying 
he  would  do  the  same,  he  had  said  Nasr  would  double 
the  sum  several  times  over,  I  should  certainly  have 
done  it  1 "     The  benefits  conferred  on  him  by  the  Mirdas 


THE  'ABBASIDS  121 

family  enabled  the  poet  to  build  himself  a  house  at 
Aleppo,  over  the  door  of  which  he  set  up  odes  of  his 
own  composition,  praising  "  the  goodness  of  those  who 
had  delivered  him  from  adversity  and  the  tyranny  of 
fortune."     In  this  house  he  died,  in  1081. 

Ja'far  ibn  Shams  al-Khilafa  al-Afdali  (i  148-1225)  was 
surnamed  after  Al-Afdal  Amir  al-juyush,  the  Egyptian 
minister,  in  whose  service  he  had  been.  He  was  a  clever 
copyist,  and  his  transcriptions  were  much  sought  after, 
for  the  sake  of  the  beauty  of  their  penmanship  and  their 
correctness,  qualities  which,  in  the  East,  hardly  ever 
coexist.  Most  of  his  works  are  compilations,  in  which 
we  can  only  praise  the  good  taste  with  which  he  has 
selected  the  poems  they  contain.  He  has,  indeed,  left 
some  poetical  compositions  of  his  own.  Hajl  Khalfa 
mentions  his  diwdn.  The  lines  in  which  he  says : 
"  Suffering  is  followed  by  joy.  Consider  that  the  evil 
which  has  ceased  is  better  than  the  joy  that  is  passing 
from  us,"  have  been  much  admired. 

Saif  al-din  al-Mushidd  (1205-1258),  of  Cairo,  was  of 
Turkoman  extraction.  His  name  was  'Ali  ibn  'Umar 
ibn  Quzal  ibn  Jildak  el-Yariiqi.  He  was  called  to 
Damascus  as  inspector  {mushidd)  of  the  Office  of  Public 
Administration  by  Al-Malik  al-Nasir  Ydsuf,  and  died 
there.  He  was  an  agreeable  social  companion,  and  a 
witty  conversationalist.  His  diwdn  may  be  seen  both 
at  the  Escurial  and  in  the  British  Museum. 

The  only  other  names  of  this  period  worthy  of  recol- 
lection are  those  of  Ibn  al-Zaqqaq  al-Bulqini,  who  died 
before  he  was  forty,  in  1134,  and  is  well  known  for  his 
muwashshah&t ;  Zafir  al-Haddad  of  Alexandria,  who 
died  at  Cairo  in  1135,  and  whose  diwdn,  largely  com- 
posed of  elegies  and  panegyrics,  is  preserved  at  Berlin ; 
9 


122  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

*A1J  al-Hamadhani  al-Sakhawi,  author  of  seven  odes  in 
praise  of  the  Prophet,  a  commentary  on  which,  written 
at  a  later  date  by  'Abd  al-Rahman  ibn  Ismail  ibn  al- 
Maqdisi,  is  now  in  Paris  ;  Zain  al-din  Katakit,  who  be- 
longed to  Seville,  was  born  in  1208,  and  died  at  Cairo  in 
1285 — his  poetry  is  now  in  the  Gotha  Library;  Nasir 
al-din  Ibn  al-Naqib  al-Nafisi,  who  died  at  Cairo  in  1288 
— he  wrote  fragmentary  verses,  some  of  which  will  be 
found  in  Al-Kutubi's  Fawdt  al-  Wafaydt,  and  an  anthology 
entitled  Mandzil  al-Ahbdb,  a  copy  of  which  may  be  con- 
sulted in  the  Nuri-Osmanieh  Mosque  at  Constantinople  ; 
and  of  Siraj  al-din  al-Warraq,  a  copious  and  prolific 
poet,  born  1218,  died  1296,  who  was  a  caligrapher  and 
copyist  in  the  service  of  the  Governor  of  Cairo,  and 
whose  exceedingly  numerous  poems,  filling  some  thirty 
volumes,  were  reduced  by  himself  into  a  diwdn  of  seven 
bulky  tomes — none  of  these,  save  an  extract  made  by 
Safadi  in  1346,  are  now  in  existence. 

Shihab  al-din  al-Talla'fari  (Muhammad  ibn  Yusuf) 
(1197-1277)  was  born  at  Mosul,  His  panegyrics  on  the 
Prince  Malik-al-Ashraf  did  not  prevent  his  banishment 
from  that  city,  on  account  of  his  addiction  to  games  of 
chance,  which  the  Moslem  law  forbids.  The  money  be- 
stowed on  him.  by  his  patron  was  forthwith  gambled 
away.  He  betook  himself  to  Aleppo,  and  was  at  first 
well  received  by  the  prince,  till  he  earned  his  displeasure 
by  the  same  vice.  It  became  necessary  to  make  it  known 
by  the  public  crier,  that  any  one  seen  gambling  with  him 
would  have  his  hand  cut  off. 

He  was  not  more  fortunate  at  Damascus,  where,  after 
gambling  away  the  money  he  wormed  out  of  various 
great  people,  he  was  obliged  to  sleep  on  the  stoves 
used  to  heat  the  public  baths.     Then  we  come  on  him 


THE  'ABBASIDS  123 

again  at  the  court  of  the  Princes  of  Hamat,  and  in  that 
town  he  died.  His  poems  are  in  the  Escurial  and  at 
Berlin ;  he  occasionally  abandoned  the  classic  metres, 
and  wrote  popular  songs  called  inuwashshahdt. 

'Afif  al-din  Sulaiman  al-Tilimsani  (1213-1291)  lived 
at  Cairo  and  at  Damascus,  at  one  time  as  a  Siifi,  at 
another  as  an  author,  and  died  in  the  latter  town.  His 
family  belonged  to  Kdfa.  He  claimed  to  be  a  mystic, 
and  was  fond  of  using  the  expressions  peculiar  to  the 
Sijfis ;  he  was  even  suspected  of  leanings  towards  the 
beliefs  of  the  Nusairis  or  Ansiris.  When  he  was  dying, 
he  uttered  these  words :  "  He  who  knows  God  cannot 
dread  Him.  I,  on  the  contrary,  rejoice  to  go  to  be 
with  Him."  At  Damascus  he  acted  as  bailiff  to  the 
Collector  of  the  Public  Revenues.  His  son,  Muhammad 
ibn  Sulaiman,  the  gentle  poet,  of  whom  it  was  said 
that  he  reached  men's  hearts  before  he  touched  their 
ears,  wrote  elegant  verse,  which  was  the  admiration  of 
Damascus.  He  was  surnamed  al-Shdbb  al-Zarif  (the 
Witty  Young  Man).  Born  in  Cairo  in  1263,  he  died 
at  Damascus  in  1289. 

If  to  these  names  we  add  those  of  'Abdallah  al- 
Khafaji  (died  1074),  who  sang  the  praises  of  the 
great  Amir  Sa'd  al  -  daula  'Alt  ibn  Munqidh ;  of 
Madan  ibn  Kathir  al-Balisi,  none  of  whose  work  is 
known  to  us,  save  some  panegyrics  and  elegies  pre- 
served at  Gotha ;  of  Prince  Bahram-Shah  ibn  Far- 
rukh-Shih,  Saladin's  great-nephew,  who  ruled  Baalbek 
in  1 182,  and  was  murdered  in  1230,  leaving  a  dtwdn 
consisting  of  love  poems  and  poems  of  chivalry,  now 
in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale ;  of  Sadr  al-din  al-Basri, 
who  dedicated  his  Hamdsat  al-Basriyya  to  Malik- 
Nasir  Abii'l-Muzaffar  Ytisuf,  Prince  of  Aleppo;  of  Taj 


124  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

al-din  of  Sarkhad,  born  in  1201,  who  taught  Hanafite 
law  at  Damascus,  where  he  died  in  1275  ;  and  of  Shams 
al-din  al-Khaffaf,  a  panegyrist  of  the  Prophet,  we  shall 
have  reviewed  all  the  lesser  Syrian  poets  belonging  to 
this  period. 

Sicily 

Abu  Ishaq  Ibrahim  al-Husri,  a  poet  belonging  to 
Qairawin  in  Tunis,  was  born  in  that  town,  and  died 
there  in  1061.  He  wrote  poems  on  his  native  place 
which  are  now  in  the  Escurial,  and  has  left  us  three, 
anthologies  of  different  sizes — the  Zahr  al-Addb  (Flowers 
of  Literature),  printed  at  Bulaq,  on  the  margins  of 
Ibn  'Abd-Rabbihi's  ^ Iqd  al-Farid ;  the  Kitdb  al-mas-Cin 
(Well-guarded  Book),  and  the  Nilr  al-tarf  (Light  of 
the  Glance). 

A  prince  who  likewise  was  the  poet  of  a  day  was 
Al-Muizz  Ibn  Badis,  a  member  of  the  Zairid  dynasty, 
who  propagated  the  Malikite,  to  the  exclusion  of  the 
Hanafite  rite,  which  had  hitherto  held  exclusive  sway 
in  Northern  Africa.  He  felt  himself  strong  enough  to 
break  the  bonds  of  his  vassalage  to  the  Egyptian  Fati- 
mids,  and  publicly  recognised  the  Caliph  of  Bagdad 
as  his  purely  nominal  suzerain.  He  was  born  in  1007, 
and  died  in  1061,  after  having  reigned  for  many  years. 
To  celebrate  his  declaration  of  independence  as  regards 
the  Fatimids  he  composed  an  ode  entitled  Nafahdt 
Qudsiyya  (Sacred  Odours),  now  preserved  at  the  Es- 
curial. 

Ibn  Sharaf  al-Qairawani  al-Judhami  had  only  one 
eye.  He  carried  on  a  literary  duel  with  Ibn  Rashiq, 
who  wrote  several  satires  against  him.  He  died  in  1068. 
In  the  Escurial  there  is  a  literary  Lecture  of  his,  dealing 


The  'abbAsids  125 

with  the  most  famous  poets.  He  wrote  a  graceful 
line  on  the  wood  of  which  a  lute  was  made  :  "  When 
it  was  green,  birds  sang  in  its  branches ;  now  it  is  dry, 
men  sing  to  their  own  accompaniment  upon  it." 

Abli  'Abdallah  Muhammad  al-Shuqratisi,  who  died 
in  Jarid  (Tunis)  in  1072,  was  the  author  of  an  ode 
in  praise  of  the  Prophet,  frequently  noticed  by  com- 
mentators ;  Abu'1-Fadl  al-Tuzari  (1041-1113)  wrote 
another,  called  al  -  Munfarija,  which  has  been  the 
subject  of  many  commentaries,  and  has  been  much 
amplified  and  imitated  ;  Abu'l-Hasan  Hazim  al-Qartajini 
(1211-1285)  composed  several  odes  in  honour  of  the 
Hafsid  sovereign  of  Tunis,  Al-Mustansir-Billah.  These 
three  close  our  list  of  Northern  African  poets  from  the 
eleventh  to  the  thirteenth  century. 

'Abd  al-jabbar  Ibn  Hamdis  (1048-1132)  was  born  in 
Sicily ;  while  still  young  he  made  his  name  as  a  poet. 
He  had  reached  his  thirtieth  year  when  the  Normans 
took  the  island  from  the  Arabs.  He  fled  to  the  court 
of  the  Spanish  Caliph  Al-Mutamid,  was  kindly  re- 
ceived by  him,  and  accompanied  him  when  he  was 
carried  into  captivity  by  the  African  Prince  Yilsuf 
ibn  Tashifin  in  1091.  At  the  end  of  four  years  the 
Caliph  died,  and  the  poet  remained  at  Mahdiyya  in 
Tunis.  Later  on  we  find  him  at  Bijaya,  where  he 
died,  blind  and  over  eighty  years  old.  Some  authorities 
assert  he  died  in  the  Island  of  Majorca.  His  diwdn  has 
been  published  at  Palermo,  by  Moncada,  and  his  songs 
at  Rome,  by  Schiaparelli. 


126  ARABIC    LITERATURE 


Spain 


Even  in  the  first  century  following  on  the  Arab 
conquest  of  Spain  the  victors  successfully  cultivated 
the  art  of  poetry,  but  not  till  the  eleventh  do  we 
find  any  sufficient  information  as  to  the  literary  life 
of  that  country.  We  first  come  upon  Yusuf  ibn 
Harun  al-Ramadi,  a  Cordovan  poet,  who  died  there 
in  1013,  after  gaining  great  glory.  He  was  noted  for 
his  fecundity  of  production  and  the  swiftness  with 
which  he  expressed  his  thoughts ;  yet  all  we  now 
possess  of  his  works  is  a  few  scattered  lines  in  various 
anthologies,  and  one  ode,  composed  to  pass  the  idle 
hours  when  he  was  shut  up  in  prison.  After  him  we 
have  'Abdallah  ibn  'Abd  al-Salam,  who  wrote  the  Durr 
al-manzAm  (Pearls  ranged  in  Order),  a  diwdn  arranged 
in  alphabetical  order  and  composed  of  panegyrics 
and  New  Year  congratulations  ;  Abu'l  Fath  Ibn  al- 
Hasina  {circa  1048) ;  'Ali  al-Mayurqi,  who  came  from 
the  Balearic  Isles,  and  died  at  Bagdad  in  1048 ;  the 
'Abbadid  Caliph  of  Seville,  Al  -  Mu  tamid,  a  friend 
and  patron  of  men  of  letters,  and  himself  a  poet ; 
Ahmad  al-Numairi  (early  in  the  twelfth  century) ;  and 
Abu'l -'Abbas  al-Tutili  al-A'ma,  the  blind  poet  of 
Tudela,  who  died  young  in  11 26,  sang  the  glories  of 
"All  ibn  Yfisuf  ibn  Tashifin  the  Moravid,  and  wrote 
several  inwwashshahdt. 

Ibn  Zaidiin  (Abu'l- Walid  Ahmad)  belonged  to  a  pro- 
minent family  in  Cordova,  where  he  was  born  in 
1 103.  The  prominent  position  he  occupied  when  still 
quite  young  brought  him  to  the  notice  of  Wallada, 
daughter  of  the  Omeyyad  Caliph  Al-Mustakfi,  who  was 
murdered  in  1025.      Their  loves  were  crossed  by  AbCi'l- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  127 

Hazm  i'bn  Jahwar,  then  master  of  Cordova,  who  cast 
the  poet  into  prison  ;  he  escaped,  but  his  longing  to  see 
Wallada  tempted  him  back  to  the  city.  When  the 
tyrant  died,  his  son,  Abii'l-Walid,  ascended  the  throne, 
recalled  Ibn  Zaidiln,  and  made  him  his  vizier.  When 
AbO  'Amir  ibn  'Abdus  sought  Wallada's  hand  in 
marriage,  Ibn  Zaidfln,  in  her  name,  sent  him  a  famous 
epistle  refusing  his  request.  His  relations  with  Idris  H., 
Prince  of  Malaga,  a  lover  of  the  arts,  stirred  the  sus- 
picions of  his  patron,  Abfl'l-Walid,  who  sent  him  into 
exile.  He  went  to  Seville,  where  Al-Mu  tadid  was  then 
in  power.  This  monarch  gave  him  a  brilliant  reception, 
and  shortly  afterwards  appointed  him  to  the  twofold 
position  of  Prime  Minister  and  commander  of  his 
troops.  So  well  did  he  perform  these  functions  that 
Mu'tadid's  successor,  Al-Mu'tamid,  continued  him  in 
his  post  till  he  died,  in  1070.  His  letter  to  Ibn  'Abdus 
was  translated  and  published  by  Reiske  in  1755.  In 
later  years  his  work  occupied  the  attention  of  the  Dutch 
Orientalist,  Weijers,  and  yet  more  recently  his  life  has 
been  studied,  and  his  letter  to  Ibn  Jahwar  published, 
by  M.  Besthorn. 

'Abd  al-Majid  Ibn  'Abdun,  who  was  born  at  Evora, 
early  attracted  the  notice  of  'Umar  ibn  Aftas,  then 
governor  of  that  town.  When  'Umar  succeeded  his 
brother  Yahya,  he  sent  for  the  poet  to  Badajoz,  and 
made  him  his  secretary.  When  the  prince  lost  his 
territory  and  his  life,  in  the  Moravid  irruption  (1092), 
Ibn  'Abdun  entered  the  service  of  Sir  ibn  Abt  Bakr, 
commander  of  the  African  troops,  in  the  same  capacity. 
Then  he  went  on  to  Morocco,  where  the  son  of  Yusuf 
ibn  Tashifin  also  employed  him  as  his  secretary.  He 
died   in   his   native  town,  whither  he  had  returned  to 


128  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

visit  his  kinsfolk,  in  1134.  His  ode  on  the  disappear- 
ance of  the  Aftas  family  has  become  celebrated.  Com- 
mentaries on  it  have  been  vsrritten  by  Ibn  Badrun  and 
Ismail  Ibn  Athir. 

Between  Jativa  and  Valencia  lies  the  village  of  Jucar, 
which  the  Arabs  called  an  island,  because  it  was  sur- 
rounded by  the  waters  of  a  river  of  the  same  name. 
Here  was  born,  in  1058,  Ibn  Khafaja  (Abti  Ishaq 
Ibrahim),  and  here  he  dwelt,  without  seeking  to  pay 
court  to  the  kinglets  who  had  divided  up  the  country 
amongst  them,  and  who,  nevertheless,  prided  themselves 
on  being  patrons  of  letters.  In  spite  of  this,  as  we 
perceive  on  consulting  his  dhvdn,  published  in  Cairo 
in  1869,  he  did  address  numerous  panegyrics  to  Abu 
Ishaq  Ibrahim  ibn  Yiisuf  ibn  Tashifin. 

The  Almerian  Spaniard  who  entered  the  service  of 
the  Seljuqid  Sultan  Mahmud  ibn  Malikshah  in  11 27, 
and  provided  him  with  a  campaigning  hospital,  trans- 
ported on  forty  camels,  was  both  a  physician  and  a 
poet.  His  name  was'Ubaidallah  ibn  Muzaffar.  Born  in 
1093,  he  made  the  Mecca  pilgrimage  in  1122,  sojourned 
at  Damascus  and  Alexandria,  spent  some  time  as  a 
teacher  at  Bagdad,  and  finally  returned  to  Damascus, 
where  he  died  in  1154.  With  the  exception  of  such  of 
his  verses  as  are  quoted  in  various  anthologies,  scarcely 
anything  remains  to  us  except  a  poem  in  the  rajas 
metre,  called  Mdarrat  al-bait,  the  manuscript  of  which 
is  preserved  at  Berlin. 

Abft  Bakr  Muhammad  Ibn  Quzman,  a  wandering 
troubadour,  travelled  from  town  to  town,  singing  the 
praises  of  the  great,  and  living  on  the  rewards  he  thus 
obtained.  He  wrote  popular  poetry  in  the  form  called 
zajal,  till  then  left  entirely  to  improvisators,  but  which 


THE  "ABBASIDS  129 

he  raised  to  the  dignity  of  a  literary  form.  Indeed  he 
has  been  regarded  by  some  as  the  inventor  of  this 
particular  style  of  poetry.  He  even  adopted  it  to  sing 
the  praises  of  princes,  whereas  until  his  time  the  lordly 
qasida  had  been  solely  devoted  to  this  use.  The  unique 
manuscript  belonging  to  the  Asiatic  Museum  in  St. 
Petersburg  has  been  published  by  M.  D.  de  Gunzbourg. 

Abu  Ishiq  Ibrahim  Ibn  Sahl,  a  Sevillian  Jevir,  ulti- 
mately became  a  Moslem  convert.  He  was  drowned, 
with  Ibn  Khallas,  Governor  of  Ceuta,  in  1251  or  1260. 
He  was  a  little  over  forty  years  of  age.  He  lived  much 
with  Moslems  before  he  was  converted,  and  even  wrote 
a  poem  in  honour  of  Mahomet  before  he  actually  joined 
his  followers.  Yet  some,  noting  that  he  continued  to 
drink  wine,  were  sceptical  as  to  his  conversion.  He 
wrote  verses  in  the  popular  metre  known  as  muwashshah, 
which  have  been  collected  by  Hasan  ibn  Muhammad 
al- Attar,  and  lithographed  at  Cairo. 

The  Spanish  Government  might  also  reasonably  claim 
Abu  Zaid  'Abdal  -  Rahman  Ibn  Yakhlaftan,  who,  after 
having  acted  as  secretary  to  various  Arab  princes,  was 
banished  by  the  Almohad  Al-Ma'mun.  He  took  refuge 
in  Morocco,  and  made  his  peace  with  the  Sultan  in  1230, 
yet  this  served  him  but  little,  seeing  he  was  dead  within 
three  months.  One  of  his  pupils  collected  his  complete 
works,  in  prose  and  verse,  into  a  volume,  which  is  now  at 
Leyden,  and  which  treats  of  edification  and  asceticism. 
The  poems  included  in  a  manuscript  now  at  the  Escurial 
are  of  the  same  type,  and  to  these  we  must  add  a  certain 
number  of  odes  in  praise  of  the  Prophet.  A  Spaniard, 
Abu'l  Husain  'Ali  al-Shushtari,  born  at  Shushtar,  in  the 
district  of  Wadi-Ash  in  Andalusia,  who  died  at  Damietta 
in  1269,  wrote  Siafi  poems  in  the  popular  form  known 


I30  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

as  muwashshah.  A  native  of  Malaga,  Abu'l  Hakam 
Malik  Ibn  al-Murahhal,  wrote  a  panegyric  of  the  Pro- 
phet in  popular  form. 

Cultured  Rhymed  Prose 

The  same  period  witnessed  the  appearance  of  prose 
works  worthy  to  rank  with  those  of  the  poets.  Rhymed 
prose,  of  which  the  Koran  is  the  masterpiece,  had  fallen 
out  of  fashion  before  the  days  of  Islam,  and  was  utterly 
neglected  when  a  recrudescence  of  this  style  occurred  in 
the  form  of  sermons  (Khutba),  epistolary  art,  and  poetic 
compositions,  which  have  grown  famous  under  the  name 
of  Lectures  (Maqamat). 

A  preacher  at  the  court  of  Saif  al-daula  at  Aleppo  was 
Ibn  Nubata  (946-984),  who  was  born  at  Mayyafariqin  in 
Mesopotamia,  and  died  in  his  native  town.  He  is  called 
Al-Khatib,  the  preacher,  to  distinguish  him  from  Ibn 
Nubata  the  poet,  who  also  lived  at  Saif  al-daula's  court.  A 
large  number  of  Ibn  Nubata's  sermons  are  devoted  to  the 
duty  of  prosecuting  the  Holy  War.  They  were  intended  to 
stir  the  courage  of  the  populace,  and  excite  it  to  support 
the  prince,  to  whose  perpetual  struggle  with  the  Roman 
troops  of  Byzantium  reference  has  been  already  made. 
The  most  famous  of  these  sermons  is  one  known  as  the 
Sermon  of  the  Dream,  or  Vision.  It  was  composed  dur- 
ing a  dream  in  which  the  preacher  believed  he  had  seen 
the  Prophet  in  person.  This  has  been  translated  and  pub- 
lished by  MacGuckin  de  Slane,  in  ih^  Journal  Asiatique 
for  1840.  As  for  Ibn  Nubata  the  poet,  he  wandered  from 
one  country  to  another,  reciting  poems  extolling  their 
greatness  to  the  various  princes  and  great  lords  on  whom 
he  happened.     He  was  born  in  938,  and  died  at  Bagdad 


THE   'ABBASIDS  131 

in  1015.  A  curious  incident,  related  by  Ibn  Khallik^n, 
befel  him.  He  was  taking  a  siesta  one  day  in  the  vesti- 
bule of  his  house,  when  a  man  lately  arrived  from  the 
East  came  to  inquire  whether  he  was  author  of  the  lines : 
"  He  who  does  not  die  by  the  sword  will  die  in  some 
other  fashion.  The  manner  may  be  different,  but  the 
misfortune  never  changes."  And  before  the  end  of  that 
same  day,  a  native  of  Tahart  (Tiaret)  in  Algeria  appeared 
and  put  the  same  query.  What  greatly  surprised  Ibn 
Nubata  was  that  the  fame  of  this  stanza  should  have 
simultaneously  reached  the  eastern  and  western  extremi- 
ties of  the  Moslem  world. 

The  mother  of  Abu  Bakr  al-KhwarizmI  was  own 
sister  to  the  historian  Tabari.  He  was  born  in  935,  and 
was  the  first  author  who  left  a  collection  of  letters  behind 
him.  He  was  a  letter-writer  who  had  seen  many  adven- 
tures. He  was  of  Persian  origin.  Flis  father  belonged 
to  Khwarizm,  now  the  Khanate  of  Khiva,  and  his  mother 
to  Tabaristin  or  Mazandaran,  in  Northern  Persia.  In 
his  youth  he  spent  some  time  at  Saif  al-daula's  court  at 
Aleppo,  then  went  to  Bukhara,  to  that  of  Abu  'Alt 
al-Bal'ami,  but  soon  left  it,  and  sojourned  both  at  Nisha- 
pur  in  Khurasan,  and  in  Sijistan,  where  he  lay  a  long 
time  in  prison,  because  be  had  written  a  satire  against 
the  governor,  Tahir  ibn  Muhammad.  Returning  from 
Nishapflr,  he  settled,  after  a  certain  amount  of  travelling, 
at  Ispahan  and  at  Shiraz.  His  mania  for  satire  earned 
him  confiscation  and  imprisonment  at  the  hands  of 
Al-Utbl,  minister  of  Mahmud  the  Ghaznevid.  Then 
he  departed  into  Jurjan,  whence  he  was  recalled, 
after  'Utbi's  assassination,  by  his  successor,  Abu'l- 
Husain  al-Muzani.  Towards  the  end  of  his  life  his 
reputation    was    somewhat    overshadowed    by    that    of 


132  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Hamadhani.  He  died  either  in  993  or  in  1002. 
Tha'alibI  has  preserved  extracts  from  his  poems,  in  his 
Yatimat  al-dahr ;  but  his  Rasdil,  or  letters  in  rhymed 
prose  on  every  possible  literary  topic,  have  made  his 
name  famous.  When  he  went  to  wait  on  the  Vizier  Ibn 
'Abbad,  he  was  told  by  the  chamberlain  that  no  man  of 
letters  was  admitted  to  his  master's  presence  unless  he 
knew  by  heart  twenty  thousand  lines  written  by  desert 
Arabs.  "  Twenty  thousand  lines  written  by  men  or  by 
women  ? "  inquired  the  poet.  He  was  recognised  at 
once.  "  It  can  be  no  one  but  him,"  said  the  vizier. 
"  Let  him  come  in  ! "  The  welcome  this  personage 
bestowed  on  Al-Khwarizmi  did  not  save  him  from  the 
poet's  jeers  at  a  later  date.  "  Praise  not  Ibn  'Abbad, 
even  if  he  showers  so  many  benefits  that  the  very  rain- 
cloud  is  ashamed.  For  with  him  such  actions  are  the 
suggestions  of  his  fancy.  When  he  gives,  it  is  not  out 
of  liberality,  nor  is  it  from  avarice  that  he  denies." 
"  God's  curse  on  the  ungrateful  fellow ! "  cried  the 
vizier.  One  of  his  fellow-countrymen  has  left  us  this 
unflattering  sketch  of  the  poet's  character  :  "Abu 
Bakr  has  learning  and  talent,  but  he  is  not  faithful  to 
his  engagements.  His  friendship  lasts  from  morning  till 
the  darkness,  but  no  later." 

Badi'  al-zaman  al-HamadhanI  (the  Wonder  of  his 
Time)  was  still  a  young  man  when  he  left  his  native  town 
o£  Hamadhan  in  990.  He  travelled  through  the  same 
countries  as  Al-Khwarizmi,  made  a  stay  at  Nishapur,  held 
an  oratorical  duel  in  that  town  with  the  said  Al-Khwarizmi, 
an  older  and  better  known  man  than  himself,  and  seems 
to  have  finally  settled  at  Ghazna,  in  Afghanistan,  and  to 
have  died  at  Herat,  aged  forty,  in  the  year  1008.  He 
was  actually  buried  prematurely,  while  he  lay  in  a  state  of 


THE  'ABBASIDS  133 

lethargy.  His  screams  were  heard  in  the  night,  and  the 
tomb  was  opened,  but  he  was  found  to  have  died  of  terror, 
with  his  hand  clutching  his  beard.  His  memory  was  so 
prodigious  that  he  could  recite  four  or  five  pages  of  a  book 
correctly  after  having  read  them  over  once,  and  he  could 
repeat  any  poem  without  hesitation  after  having  once 
heard  it  declaimed.  He  composed  with  the  same  ease, 
either  in  prose  or  verse,  and  improvised  at  will  upon  any 
subject  he  was  given.  Any  poem  put  into  his  hand  he 
could  at  once  read  in  prose,  and  vice  versa;  and,  yet 
more  astonishing,  he  would  sometimes  answer  a  question 
addressed  to  him,  writing  his  answer  backwards,  from 
what  should  have  been  its  last  line.  He  translated 
Persian  verse  into  Arabic  poetry  in  the  same  rapid 
fashion.  While  at  Nishapur  he  wrote  his  Lectures,  in 
which  he  introduces  us  to  a  fictitious  character  called 
Abu'1-Fath  Iskandari,  and  which  contain  anecdotes 
about  mendicants  and  other  topics.  These  lectures 
are,  in  fact,  tales,  the  Aryan  origin  of  which  is  at  once 
evident.  They  are  rather  short,  but  written  in  a  brilliant 
and  difficult  style,  the  words  of  which  are,  for  the  inost 
part,  the  rarest  in  the  Arabic  dictionary.  The  fictitious 
hero  is  a  chevalier  dindustrie,  who  passes  himself  off 
now  as  a  Nabatean,  now  as  an  Arab,  then  as  a  Christian, 
and  again  as  a  Moslem  :  "  I  am  the  chameleon,"  says 
he,  "and  am  perpetually  changing  my  hue.  Be  not 
deceived  by  reason !  Madness  is  the  only  real  reason  ! " 
The  word  inaqdma  (lecture  or  stance)  had  long  been 
used  to  describe  the  gatherings  of  the  learned  men  and 
poets  clustered  about  the  Caliphs  and  Governors,  at 
which  they  exchanged  ideas  on  grammatical  points,  and 
vied  with  one  another  in  wit  and  erudition.  Ibn  Outaiba 
mentions    them    in    his   "^Uylln    al  -  Akhbdr.      But    to 


134  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Hamadhani  belongs  the  credit  of  having  been  the  first 
to  create  a  new  form  of  literature,  by  making  a  volume 
of  short  stories  of  the  comic  adventures  of  beggars  and 
rogues,  painted  in  the  most  brilliant  colours  by  a  learned 
author,  thoroughly  acquainted  with  the  homonymy  of 
the  Arab  tongue.  The  masterpiece  in  this  particular 
style  was  to  be  the  celebrated  Lectures  of  Hariri,  which 
appeared  at  a  later  date.  The  Berlin  Museum  has  pre- 
served a  lecture  in  the  same  style,  and  written  at  the 
same  period,  by  'Abdal-Aziz  ibn  'Umar  al-Sa'di  (939- 
1015),  who  was  born  at  Bagdad,  was  a  court  poet  at 
Aleppo  in  the  days  of  Saif  al-daula,  and  afterwards  at 
Rai,  under  the  governor,  Muhammad  ibn  al-'Amid,  and 
died  in  his  native  town. 

At  the  same  period  we  may  cite,  as  authors  of  literary 
correspondence,  Abu'l-Husain  al-Ahwazi,  and  that  Hel- 
lenising  pagan  belonging  to  Harran,  a  member  of  the  sect 
which  preserved  the  ancient  Syrian  religions,  with  their 
strong  tincture  of  Greco-Roman  syncretism,  long  after 
Islam  viras  in  full  power,  and  which  were  believed  to  be  de- 
rived from  the  Sabians,  or  disciples  of  St.  John  Baptist, 
formerly  included  by  the  Koran  among  the  Men  of  the 
Book — I  refer  to  Abu  Ishaq  Ibrahim  ibn  Hilal,  sur- 
named  al-Sabi,  who  was  head  of  the  Official  Corre- 
spondence Office  under 'Izz  al-daula,  the  Buwaihid,  and 
whom,  in  his  hatred,  'Adud  al-daula  would  have  caused 
to  be  trampled  by  elephants,  when  Bagdad  was  taken  in 
977.  He  was  fortunate  enough  to  be  imprisoned  instead, 
and  was  pardoned,  on  condition  of  his  writing  a  history 
of  the  Buwaihids.     He  died  in  want,  in  994. 

The  honour  of  writing  the  most  brilliant  literary  work 
in  rhymed  prose  was  reserved  for  Abu  Muhammad 
al-Qasim   al-Hariri    (1054-1122),  author  of   the  famous 


THE  'ABBASIDS 


135 


Lectures.  He  was  born  at  Bassora.  His  family  be- 
longed to  Mashan,  a  small  unhealthy  village  hidden  in 
the  palm  groves  near  the  great  commercial  city.  His 
country  property  ensured  him  an  income  which  allowed 
him  to  lead  an  independent  life,  and  devote  himself 
with  a  quiet  mind  to  his  studies,  linguistic  and  literary. 
His  collection  of  Lectures,  coming  as  they  did  after 
Hamadhani's,  was  modelled  on  it,  but  he  excelled  his 
predecessor  in  wealth  of  fancy,  and  in  his  vocabulary, 
which  is  even  more  full  and  studied.  Like  his  pre- 
decessor, he  brings  a  fictitious  hero  on  the  scene,  a 
vagabond,  nursed  on  literature,  called  Abu  Zaid  of 
Saruj,  whom  he  meets  in  the  most  extraordinary 
situations.  The  name  is  not  altogether  imaginary. 
Hariri's  son  has  told  us  of  the  circumstances  under 
which  it  was  adopted.  A  stranger  of  poverty-stricken 
appearance,  but  who  expressed  himself  in  elegant 
language,  had  come  into  the  mosque.  To  every  question 
addressed  to  him  he  replied  :  "  I  am  Abu  Zaid  of 
Saruj."  This  town  in  Mesopotamia  had  been  seized 
by  the  Christians  during  the  First  Crusade,  and  sacked 
by  the  captors.  Abii  Zaid's  daughter  had  been  carried 
into  captivity,  and  he  himself,  stripped  of  everything  he 
possessed,  was  fain  to  live  on  public  charity.  But  tlie 
richness  of  the  style  is  even  more  wonderful  than  the 
delicate  web  which  connects  the  fifty  stories  of  which 
this  collection  consists. 

The  great  Oriental  scholar,  Silvestre  de  Sacy,  the  chief 
master  of  Oriental  study  at  the  beginning  of  the  nine- 
teenth century,  has  published  the  Arabic  text  of  al- 
Hariri's  work,  with  a  preface  and  commentary  of  his 
own,  also  written  in  Arabic.  This  is  not  the  least  feat 
performed  by  this  master  mind. 


136  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

In  addition  to  this  famous  book,  Hariri  has  also  left 
other  works,  such  as  the  two  letters  in  which  every  word 
begins  either  with  an  i-  or  a  sh,  a  puerile  trick,  of  con- 
siderable difficulty,  in  which  Western  writers  of  the 
Middle  Ages  also  took  delight ;  a  grammatical  work 
dealing  with  the  mistakes  in  language  generally  made  by 
educated  persons,  which  he  entitled  The  Pearl  of  the 
Diver  into  the  False  Notions  of  Alen  of  the  World  (Durrat 
al-Ghawwas  fi  auham  al-Khawass) ;  and  Grammatical 
Recreations  (Mulhat  al-Trab),  a  didactic  poem,  which  has 
been  translated  into  French  by  M.  L.  Pinto. 


CHAPTER   VI 

THE   ' ABB ASIBS— Continued 

Grammar — The  Schools  of  KOfa  and  Bassora 

Meanwhile,  the  study  of  the  Arabic  language  and 
grammar,  arising  out  of  the  exegesis  of  the  Koran,  and 
destined  to  supply  the  needs  of  the  constantly  increasing 
number  of  nations  and  individuals  to  whom  a  knowledge 
of  the  conqueror's  tongue  was  an  absolute  necessity, 
was  steadily  proceeding.  It  is  to  the  Aristotelian  logic 
taught  in  the  Syro-Persian  school  of  Gundishapur  that, 
as  Ernest  Renan  has  demonstrated,  we  must  trace  back 
Arab  research  into  the  construction  of  the  national 
language.  The  interpretation  of  the  Koran,  and  the 
necessity  for  explaining  the  difficulties  of  its  text,  gave 
rise  to  inquiries  ultimately  continued  for  the  sake  of 
their  intrinsic  interest,  and  which  resulted  in  the  final 
organisation  of  the  lexicography  of  the  language,  and  the 
restoration  of  its  ancient  literary  monuments.  Thus  the 
criticism  of  the  ancient  texts  sprang  from  these  texts 
themselves,  within  the  limits  permitted  by  Oriental 
erudition,  always  incomplete,  because  Easterns  can  very 
seldom  go  beyond  the  range  of  their  native  tongue. 
Two  schools  of  grammarians  simultaneously  appear,  on 
the  banks  of  the  Euphrates  and  the  Tigris.  At  Bassora, 
founded  in  636  by  one  of  Caliph  'Umar's  generals,  and 

10  »37 


138  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

the  centre  of  a  mixed  Arab  and  Persian  population, 
speaking  two  different  languages — not  only  on  account 
of  the  striking  difference  between  the  two  idioms,  but 
of  the  real  though  less  striking  variation  of  the  Arabic 
literature,  derived  from  the  Quraishite  dialect  of  the 
Koran,  and  from  the  others  spoken  in  the  Arabian 
Peninsula — a  school,  the  origin  of  which  is  wrapped  in 
obscurity,  had  arisen.  Some  go  back  to  Abu'l-Aswad 
as  its  founder,  but  to  be  more  certain  we  must  come 
down  to  'IsA  IBN  'Umar  al-Thaqafi,  died  766,  the  master 
of  the  famous  grammarians  Khalil  and  Sibawaih  ;  he  had 
a  reputation  as  a  reader  of  the  Koran.  Near  him  his 
friend  Abu  'Amr  ibn  al- Ala,  born  at  Mecca  in  689,  died 
at  Kufa  in  766,  just  as  he  had  come  back  from  a  journey 
to  Damascus,  collected  the  ancient  Arab  poets.  It  is 
said  that  in  a  fit  of  religious  fervour  he  put  his  whole 
collection  into  the  fire,  so  that  he  might  devote  himself 
exclusively  to  the  study  of  the  Koran.  He  is  recognised, 
indeed,  as  one  of  the  seven  authoritative  readers  of  the 
sacred  book.  He  had  a  pupil,  Yunus  ibn  Habib,  the 
freed  slave  01  an  Arab  tribe,  possibly  of  Persian,  more 
probably  of  Aramean  origin,  and  born  at  Jabbul,  a 
small  town  on  the  Tigris,  between  Wasit  and  Bagdad. 
He  busied  himself  in  collecting  the  rare  peculiarities 
occurring  in  the  language,  dialect  words,  and  proverbs, 
and  studied  syntax.  The  great  master  of  this  school 
was  an  Arab  frora'Uman,  KhalIl  ibn  Ahmad,  to  whom 
is  ascribed  the  invention  of  the  rules  of  prosody  (he 
is  said  to  have  discovered  them  by  hearing  a  smith's 
hammer  ringing  on  the  anvil),  and  who  was  the  author 
of  the  first  known  work  on  lexicography,  the  Kiidb 
al-Ain  (Book  of  the  Letter  'Am),  in  which  the  letters  are 
not  arranged  in  the  order  of  the  Arab  alphabet,  nor  in 


THE  'ABBASIDS  139 

that  which  may  be  called  the  historic  order  (because  it 
passed  from  its  Phcenician  inventors  into  the  Greek  and 
Latin  languages),  but  in  an  order  suggested  by  linguistic 
and  phonetic  laws.  The  alphabet  thus  conceived  began 
with  the  letter  ^ain,  so  characteristic  of  the  Semitic 
tongues,  and  especially  of  the  Arab  (my  readers  are 
aware  that  the  ''ain  is  the  guttural  cry  of  the  camel  on 
whose  back  the  pack  is  being  placed),  and  ended  with  the 
letter  y.  Lepsius  has  adopted  a  rational  and  experi- 
mental order  of  this  nature  in  his  Standard  Alphabet, 
which  is  the  delight  of  linguists,  and  obliges  men  of 
learning  to  acquire  yet  another  alphabet.  It  is  interest- 
ing to  note  the  order  adopted  by  a  learned  Arab  of  the 
eighth  century.  First  come  the  gutturals  (^ain,  h,  h,  kh, 
gh,  and  q),  next  the  palatals  {k,  j),  then  the  whistling 
and  sibilant  letters  {sh,  s,  d,  s,  z),  the  lingual  (/,  d,  t,  z, 
dh,  th,  r,  I,  11),  the  labials  (/",  b,  m),  and  the  semi-vowels 
{w,  hamsa,  andj').  This  work,  begun  during  a  visit  paid 
by  its  author  to  Khurasan,  and  finished  after  his  death 
by  Laith  ibn  Muzaffar,  was  in  the  library  of  the 
Tahirid  family,  and  was  removed,  in  862,  to  Bagdad, 
where  it  became  the  subject  of  constant  study  and 
alteration. 

It  is  more  especially  by  means  of  the  famous  book 
written  by  Khalil's  pupil,  Sibawaih,  the  Kitdb,  or  Book 
above  all  others,  that  we  are  enabled  to  gauge  Khalil's 
influence  over  the  Bassora  School.  Sibawaih  is  the 
Arab  pronunciation  of  the  Persian  name  Sibuya,  the 
meaning  of  which  was  given  as  "perfume  of  apple," 
and  which  may  possibly  be  the  ancient  historical 
name  of  Sebukht.  He  came  to  Bassora  when  he 
was  thirty  -  two  years  of  age,  completed  his  studies 
there,  and  then  moved  on  to  Bagdad,  where  he  found 


I40  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

life  intolerable  on  account  of  his  altercations  with 
Al-Kisa'i,  tutor  of  Harun  al-Rashid's  son,  as  to  the 
accusative  or  nominative  of  a  word.  Infuriated  at  the 
venal  testimony  borne  against  him  by  desert  Arabs  on 
whose  honour  he  had  fully  depended,  he  returned  to  his 
native  country,  and  died  young,  before  he  was  fifty,  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Shiraz  (793  or  796).  His  Kitdb 
was  famous  all  over  the  East,  and  has  remained  the 
great  and  favourite  authority  ;  no  other  work  has  ever 
been  acknowledged  its  equal.  The  text  has  been  pub- 
lished by  H.  Derenbourg,  and  translated  into  German 
by  G.  Jahn. 

Besides  Sibawaih,  Khalil  had  other  pupils.  Mu'arrij 
ibn  'Amr  al-Sadusi,  who  was  born  in  the  desert,  and 
accompanied  Caliph  Ma'mun  into  Khurasan,  lived  some 
time  at  Merv  and  at  Nishapur,  and  came  back  to  die  at 
Bassora  in  810.  Nadr  ibn  Shumail  was  born  at  Merv, 
and  lived  there  after  he  had  studied  grammar  and  law  at 
Bassora.  He  was  appointed  a  judge  in  his  native  town, 
and  died  there  in  818,  leaving  exegetical  works  on  the 
Koran  and  on  the  traditions,  and  also  an  encyclopasdia 
of  the  Bedouin  tongue,  which  attained  great  celebrity 
{Kitdb  al-sifdi). 

To  the  same  school  belongs  one  of  Sibawaih's  pupils, 
Muhammad  ibn  Ahmad  al-Musta'mir,  whom  his  master 
surnamed  Qutrub  (Were-Wolf),  qutrub  being  a  mere 
corruption  of  the  Greek  term  lykanthropos :  the  surname 
was  bestowed  because,  in  his  eagerness  to  learn,  he  always 
came  to  his  lessons  before  any  of  the  other  pupils.  He 
was  a  freedman,  born  at  Bassora,  acted  as  tutor  to  the 
children  of  Abu  Dulaf,  a  general  in  the  service  of 
Ma'mijn  and  Mu'tasim,  and  left  a  collection  of  lexico- 
graphical works,  numbering  twenty-eight,  four  of  which 


THE  'ABBASIDS  141 

have  survived  to  the  present  day,  and  have  been  the 
subjects  of  copious  commentary,  more  especially  his 
book  on  triliteral  roots,  the  signification  of  which  alters 
according  to  their  vocalisation  {Kitdb  al-Muthallath),  a 
subject  on  which  he  was  the  first  to  write,  and  on  which 
he  has  found  many  imitators.     He  died  in  821. 

Amongst  Qutrub's  pupils  we  must  place  Muhammad 
ibn  Habib,  to  whom  we  owe  our  collection  of  the  verses 
of  Ferazdaq.  He  also  studied  the  ancient  history. of  the 
Arab  tribes,  and  wrote  a  book  on  the  subject,  which  is 
now  lost.  He  died  at  Samarra  in  859.  His  mother's 
name  was  Habib. 

Abij  'Ubaida  Ma'mar  ibn  al  -  Muthanna  v^as  born 
at  Bassora  in  728,  of  Jewish  parents,  settled  in  Persia. 
He  attended  the  lectures  of  Abu  'Amr  ibn  al-'Ala.  He 
was  attached  to  the  religious  and  political  views  of  the 
Kharijites,  and  his  leanings  were  also  ShuHbite  —  that 
is  to  say,  he  asserted  the  superiority  of  the  conquered 
races  over  the  Arab  victors,  as  we  have  previously  ex- 
plained. Harun  al-Rashid  summoned  him  to  Bagdad 
in  803.  He  had  made  himself  so  many  enemies  by  his 
book  called  al-Mathdlib  (Book  of  the  Arabs'  Faults)  that 
when  he  died  at  Bassora  in  825,  poisoned  by  a  banana, 
not  a  soul  followed  his  coffin  to  the  grave — a  most  unusual 
occurrence  in  the  East.  He  wore  dirty  garments,  and 
had  a  burr  in  his  speech.  He  wrote  two  hundred 
grammatical  and  philological  treatises,  composed  of 
extracts  from  the  poems  and  proverbs  of  the  Arabian 
Peninsula.  The  poet  Abu  Nuwas  took  lessons  from 
Abu  'Ubaida.  He  thought  very  highly  of  him,  and 
despised  Al-Asma  1,  of  whom  he  used  to  say  that  he  was 
a  caged  nightingale — in  other  words,  that  he  made  fine 
speeches  without  understanding  a  word  of   them.     Of 


142  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

his  own  master  he  said  :  "  He  is  a  bundle  of  knowledge 
done  up  in  a  skin."  When  he  recited  verses,  he  would 
not  mark  the  rhythm,  and  when  he  repeated  passages 
from  the  Koran  or  from  the  traditions,  he  made  delibe- 
rate blunders  ;  on  being  asked  the  reason,  he  would  say  : 
"  Because  grammar  is  an  evil  portent."  His  Book  of  the 
Arab  Days  was  the  foundation  on  which  the  Aghdnt 
of  Abu'l-Faraj  al-Isfahani  and  the  Kdmil  of  Ibn  al-Athir 
were  written. 

Abu  Zaid  Sa'Id  ibn  'Amr  al-Ansari  was  another  of 
Abu  'Amr  ibn  al- Ala's  pupils.  His  family  belonged  to 
Medina,  but  he  was  born  at  Bagdad,  just  when  Caliph 
Mahdi  came  to  the  throne,  and  died  there  in  830,  aged 
nearly  a  hundred  years.  He  was  a  qadarl,  which  means 
that  he  acknowledged  man's  free  will,  a  theological 
opinion  then  considered  heretical.  Yet  he  is  regarded 
as  a  trustworthy  authority  on  the  Prophet's  traditions. 

But  the  most  famous  of  all  Abu  'Amr's  disciples  was 
Al-Asma'1  'Abdal-Malik  ibn  Quraib,  a  man  of  true  Arab 
descent,  who  was  born  at  Bassora  in  739.  His  astonish- 
ing erudition  earned  him  the  highest  consideration  at  the 
court  of  Hariin  al-Rashid,  while,  both  as  an  instructor 
and  as  a  writer,  he  wielded  great  influence  in  literary 
circles.  He  is  distinguished  from  his  predecessors  by  his. 
excessive  piety,  the  expression  of  which  is  evident  even 
in  his  philological  works.  He  died  towards  831.  He 
wrote  books  on  a  great  many  subjects,  amongst  others 
the  Kitdb  al-Khail  (Book  of  the  Horse),  in  which  he 
enumerates  the  names  given  by  the  Bedouins  to  every 
part  of  the  noble  creature's  body,  and  quotes  an 
appropriate  Arabic  verse  to  accompany  each.  This 
book  gave  rise  to  an  incident  which  Al-Asma'i  himself 
relates  to  us.     He  went  one  day,  with  Abu  'Ubaida,  to 


THE  'ABBASIDS  143 

the  Vizier  Fadl  ibn  Rabi',  who  asked  him  the  number  of 
volumes  in  which  his  treatise  on  the  horse  was  contained. 
"One  only,"  replied  the  grammarian.  To  a  similar 
question  Abu  'Ubaida,  who  had  also  written  a  book  on 
the  horse,  replied  that  his  work  was  in  fifty  volumes. 
"Go  up  to  that  horse,"  said  the  vizier,  pointing  to  one 
which  had  just  been  led  out  of  his  stables,  "and  lay  your 
hand  on  every  part  of  his  body,  one  after  the  other, 
giving  me  their  names."  "  I  am  not  a  horse-doctor," 
replied  Abu  'Ubaida;  "I  got  everything  I  have  written 
on  the  subject  from  the  Bedouins."  But  Al-Asma'i 
undertook  to  do  what  the  vizier  desired,  and  taking 
hold  of  the  horse  by  the  mane,  he  named  every  part  of 
its  body,  and  quoted  a  verse  of  Bedouin  poetry  in 
which  each  was  mentioned.  Of  course  the  horse  was 
bestowed  on  him  as  the  reward  of  his  knowledge.  After- 
wards, whenever  he  desired  to  nettle  Abu  'Ubaida's 
feelings,  he  would  call  on  him,  riding  the  horse  which  had 
been  the  cause  of  his  confusion.  So  profound  was  Al- 
Asma'i's  respect  for  the  Koran  and  the  traditions  of  the 
Pirophet,  that  he  would  never  apply  his  learning  to  the 
elucidation  of  their  difficulties  and  obscurities.  He 
always  answered  :  "  The  Arabs  of  the  desert  say  that 
such  an  expression  means  such  and  such  a  thing,  but  I 
do  not  know  what  it  may  mean  in  the  Koran."  This 
timidity  in  exegetical  matters  arose  out  of  his  religious 
feelings,  and  prevented  him  from  using  the  gifts  which 
had  brought  him  fame  in  profane  subjects,  for  the  study 
of  the  sacred  texts. 

Al-Akhfash  (surnamed  Al-Ausat,  "the  Middle,"  to 
distinguish  him  from  an  older  grammarian  of  the  same 
name)  Sa'id  ibn  Mas'ada  was  born  at  Balkh,  and 
was  probably  of  Persian  descent.     He  was  a  freedman, 


144  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

belonging  to  an  Arab  tribe.  Though  older  than 
Sibawaih,  he  had  been  his  favourite  disciple,  and  was  in 
the  habit  of  saying  :  "  My  master  never  put  a  single 
passage  into  his  Kitdb  without  having  first  submitted 
it  to  me."  To  him,  in  fact,  we  owe  the  preservation  of 
that  famous  grammar,  certain  tendencies  of  which,  how- 
ever, he  opposed.  His  surname  Akhfash  signifies  "  he 
who  has  little  eyes,"  or  can  only  see  plainly  in  the  dark. 
Besides  this  peculiarity,  his  mouth  was  always  open, 
and  he  could  not  bring  his  lips  over  his  teeth.  He  died 
towards  835. 

Al-Asma"i  had  several  pupils.  The  first  is  Abu  'Ubaid 
Al-Qasim  ibn  Sallam  (773-837),  the  son  of  a  Greek 
slave,  born  at  Herat.  He  not  only  studied  at  Bassora 
with  Al-Asma'i,  Abu  'Ubaida,  and  Abu  Zaid,  but  also  at 
Kufa  with  Ibn  al-A'rabi  and  Al-Kisa'i.  He  was  first  of 
all  appointed  tutor  to  the  children  of  Harthama,  Gover- 
nor of  Khurasan  under  Harun  al-Rashid,  and  to  those 
of  Thabit  ibn  Nasr,  Governor  of  Tarsus  in  Cilicia.  This 
latter  functionary  gave  him  a  post  as  qddi,  which  he  held 
for  eighteen  years.  Then  he  travelled  to  the  court  of 
'Abdallah  ibn  Tahir,  Governor  of  Khurasan,  who  gave 
him  a  generous  welcome.  There  was  a  wonderful  pru- 
dence about  his  literary  efforts.  To  avoid  the  disagree- 
able consequences  of  the  satirical  lines  he  introduced 
into  them,  he  replaced  the  proper  names  by  substantives 
fabricated  by  himself  to  suit  the  rhythm.  In  his  later 
years  we  find  him  back  at  Bagdad.  He  died  at  Mecca, 
or  at  Medina,  in  the  course  of  a  pilgrimage.  He  was 
said  to  have  divided  the  night  into  three  parts — one  for 
prayer,  one  for  sleep,  and  one  for  the  composition  of  his 
literary  works.  Of  these  latter,  the  Gharib  al-Musannaf,  on 
which  he  laboured  for  forty  years,  is  preserved  in  the 


THE  'ABBASIDS  145 

Khedivial  Library  at  Cairo,  the  Gharib  al-Hadith  is  at 
Leyclen,  and  \S.\&  Book  of  Proverbs  in.  Paris. 

The  second  of  Al-Asma'i's  pupils  is  AbCt  Hatim  Sahl 
ibn  Muhammad,  who  belonged  to  Sijist^n,  and  died 
towards  864.  He  lived  for  some  time  at  Bagdad,  and 
towards  the  close  of  his  life  forswore  study,  becoming 
a  bookseller  instead.  He  is  well  known  as  the  author 
of  the  Kitdb  al-Mil ammarin,  which  is  preserved  in  the 
Cambridge  University  Library  and  deals  with  men  of 
remarkably  long  life.  His  book  of  the  palm-trees 
{Kitdb  al-Nakhl)  has  been  studied  by  Cusa  and  Lagu- 
mina.  He  was  the  teacher  of  Ibn  Duraid  and  of  Al- 
Mubarrad.  He  was  a  man  of  piety,  who  spent  a  gold 
coin  in  alms  every  day,  and  read  the  whole  Koran 
through  every  week.  We  are  told  he  was  a  better 
poet  than  grammarian.  One  anecdote  related  of  him 
shows  he  was  acquainted  with  the  use  of  sympathetic 
inks  to  conceal  writings.  He  used  to  say  to  his  pupils.: 
"  If  you  desire  to  consign  a  secret  to  paper,  write  it  in 
fresh  milk;  the  words  will  come  out  when  you  throw  hot 
ashes  from  burnt  paper  upon  them  :  or  else  write  with  a 
solution  of  sulphate  of  iron  ;  the  writing  will  become 
legible  if  you  pour  an  infusion  of  gall-nuts  upon  it.  You 
can  also  write  with  the  gall-nut  infusion,  and  pour 
sulphate   of  iron  on  it." 

The  third  pupil  of  this  great  master,  Abu  'Umar 
Salih  ibn  ISHAQ  al-Jarml,  was  a  jurisconsult  and 
grammarian,  born  at  Bassora.  He  went  to  Bagdad, 
where  he  held  great  discussions  with  Al-Farra.  He  died 
in  840.  The  fourth,  Abu'1-Fadl  al-'Abbas  ibn  Faraj 
al-RiyashI,  perished  at  Bassora  during  the  insurrection  of 
the  Bassoran  'Alid,  the  sham  'Ali  ibn  Muhammad,  Chief 
of  the   Zanj,    in  874.      When  the  town  was  taken  by 


146  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

these  savage  negroes,  the  grammarian  fell  in  the  general 
massacre  of  the  inhabitants  which  ensued.  A  fifth  was  Al- 
Sukkari  Abu  Said  al-Hasan  ibn  al-Husain  (827-888), 
who  made  a  collection  and  a  critical  edition  of  the 
ancient  Arab  poets,  the  Hudhailite  diwdn,  and  that 
of  Imru'ul-Qais.  A  sixth  was  Abu  'Uthman  Bakr  ibn 
Muhammad  al-Mazini,  died  863  ;  he  refused,  one  day, 
to  give  lessons  fin  gcamrnar,  out  of  Sibawaih's  book  to 
a  man  who  was  not  a  Moslem,  'because  Ihat  book  is 
full  of  quotations  frOm  the,  Koran,  which  he  would  not 
explain  to  the  learner  for  fear  of  profanjitioYi — and  this 
in  spite  of  thie,  large  sym_ offered  him  by  the  student,  and 
of  his  own  poverty.  He  was  summoned  to  Bagdad,  and 
explained  a  grammatical  difficulty  occurring  in  a  verse 
written  by  the  erotic  poet  Al- Arji,  of  Mecca,  grandson 
of  Caliph  'Uthman,  to  Caliph  Wathiq. 

One  of  the  chief  props  of  the  Bassora  School  was 
Al-Mubarrad  Muhammad  ibn  Yazid  al-Azdf,  author  of 
the  Kdmil,  or  complete  treatise  on  grammar.  Born  at 
Bassora  towards  826,  and  trained  by  Al-Mazini  and 
Abu  Hatim,  he  opposed  several  of  the  theories  of 
Sibawaih.  Towards  the  close  of  his  life  he  settled  at 
Bagdad,  and  died  there  in  898.  He  himself  has  related 
the  origin  of  his  surname  Al-Mubarrad  (the  Cooled). 
One  day,  when  the  Chief  of  the  Police  wished  to  have 
him  with  him,  and  enjoy  his  conversation,  Al-Mubarrad, 
to  avoid  a  society  which  he  found  very  wearisome,  went 
to  a  friend's  house.  When  the  messenger  came  there  to 
fetch  him,  he  hid  himself  in  the  great  osier  basket  used 
to  cover  drinking  jars,  and  was  not  discovered.  When 
the  messenger  had  departed,  his  host  called  him.,  shout- 
ing out  Al-Miibarrad{i\\&  Cooled  One),  and  the  nickname 
stuck.     A  whole  dynasty  of  philologers  and  teachers  of 


THE  'ABBASIDS  147 

grammar  is  formed  by  the  Al-Yazidi  family,  from  Abu 
Muhammad  Yahya,  a  freedman  of  the  'Adi  tribe,  who 
died  at  Merv  in  817,  and  his  five  sons — Muhammad,  who 
was  a  poet  too  ;  Ibrahim,  who  went  with  Ma'mun  into 
Asia  Minor,  and  died  in  839 ;  Ismail,  'Ubaid-Allah, 
and  IsMq  —  down  to  his  descendant  Abu  'Abdallah 
Muhammad  ibn  al-'Abbas,  tutor  to  the  children  of 
Caliph  Muqtadir,  who  died  in  922.  He  wrote  a  history 
of  the  family.  Yazidi  was  present  one  day  at  a  musical 
gathering  in  the  palace  of  Ma'mun.  "Tell  me,"  said 
the  Caliph,  "if  there  is  any  better  thing  in  life  than  this 
gathering  of  ours."  "  Yes,"  responded  Yazidi,  "  there 
are  the  thanksgivings  due  to  the  Most  High  for  the 
signal  favour  He  has  granted  you  in  permitting  you  to 
have  it  1"  A  pious  answer  which  greatly  pleased  the 
monarch. 

Among  Al-Mubarrad's  pupils  was  numbered  Al-Zaj- 
jaj  Abu  Ishaq  Ibrahim  ibn  Sahl,  originally  a  glass- 
worker,  who  became  a  philologist,  and  died,  aged  over 
eighty,  in  922,  having  acted  as  tutor  to  Al-Mutadid's 
vizier,  and  later  entered  the  Caliph's  own  service.  He 
transmitted  his  name  as  surname  to  his  pupil,  'Abd  al- 
Rahmin  ibn  Ish^q  al-Zajjaj,  who  was  born  at  Naha- 
vand,  taught  at  Damascus  and  at  Tiberias,  and  died 
at  the  latter  place  in  949.  His  Kitab  al-Jumal  (Book 
of  Sentences)  is  an  instructive  work  on  Arabic  grammar, 
but  lengthened  and  overloaded  by  a  plethora  of  in- 
stances. He  is  said  to  have  written  it  at  Mecca,  and 
at  the  end  of  each  chapter  to  have  circumambulated 
the  Ka'ba  seven  times  according  to  the  pilgrimage 
rites,  praying  God  to  forgive  him  his  sins,  and  make 
his  book  useful  to  its  readers.  Amongst  Al-Zajjaj's 
pupils  we  must   not   overlook  Al-Hasan  ibn  Bishr  al- 


148  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Amidi,  born  at  Diyarbakr  (the  ancient  Amida),  who  died 
in  987,  and  wrote  a  critical  book  on  poetry,  devoted  to  a 
comparison  of  the  two  poets,  Abu  Tammam  and  Buhturi. 
Ibn  Duraid  (Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  ibn  al-Hasan) 
(837-934)  was  at  once  a  poet  and  a  man  of  learning.  Born 
at  Bassora,  of  a  family  belonging  to'Uman,  he  contrived 
to  escape  the  massacre  that  followed  the  capture  of  his 
native  city  by  the  negro  rebels  known  under  the  name 
of  Zanj.  He  returned  to  the  land  of  his  fathers  in 
871,  and  remained  there  for  twelve  years.  Then  he 
went  on  into  Persia,  and  by  his  panegyrics — and  notably 
by  his  ode  called  al-Maqsura,  which  has  been  trans- 
lated into  Latin  by  Haitsma,  Scheidius,  and  Nannestadt 
Boysen^he  acquired  the  favour  of  the  Governor  of 
Susiana  and  Fars,  'Abdallah  ibn  Muhammad  ibn  Mikai, 
commonly  called  al-Shah,  "  the  king."  In  honour  of 
this  dignitary  and  his  son  he  wrote  a  great  dictionary, 
entitled  Jamhara.  After  the  dismissal  of  his  patrons 
he  went  to  Bagdad  in  920,  and  the  Caliph  Al-Muqtadir 
granted  him  a  pension  which  enabled  him  to  con- 
tinue his  studies  there  until  his  death.  Under  the  title 
of  Kitdb  al-Ishtiqdq  (Book  of  Etymology),  he  wrote 
a  genealogical  dictionary  of  the  Arab  tribes,  which 
has  been  published  by  Wustenfeld.  He  had  earned 
large  sums  in  the  service  of  the  Governors  of  Fars ; 
but,  owing  to  his  generous  and  even  prodigal  dis- 
position, he  never  had  any  money  in  his  pocket ;  he 
had  also,  while  in  Persia,  contracted  a  taste  for  wine, 
and  was  fond  of  getting  drunk.  Once,  when  a  beggar 
asked  alms  of  him,  he  gave  him  a  keg  of  wine,  having 
nothing  else  in  his  possession.  When  some  one  ex- 
pressed disapproval,  on  the  score  of  the  Koranic  injunc- 
tion not  to  drink  wine,  he  replied  :  "  It  v^'as  all  I  had." 


THE  'ABBASIDS  149 

He  became  paralytic  in  his  old  age,  but  lived  two  years 
after  his  last  attack. 

Al-Mubarrad's  favourite  pupil,  Ibn  al-Sarraj  (Mu- 
hammad ibn  al-Sari),  had  a  defect  in  his  pronunciation 
which  was  a  serious  one  for  a  grammarian — he  burred 
his  r's,  which  the  Arabs  pronounce  with  a  roll  on  the  tip 
of  the  tongue.  He  died  in  Februar}'  929.  Another  of 
the  master's  pupils  was  a  Persian  from  the  town  of  Fasa 
in  Fars,  Ibn  Durustawaih  ('Abdallah  ibn  Jafar),  born 
in  871,  died  at  Bagdad  in  May  958. 

Behzad,  a  Persian,  who  professed  belief  in  the  Avesta, 
and  lived  in  the  town  of  Siraf  on  the  Persian  Gulf,  had 
a  son  who  became  a  grammarian  under  the  name  of 
Al-Hasan  ibn 'Abdallah  al-sirafL  He  travelled  much, 
left  his  native  town  when  he  was  twenty,  studied  law 
in  'Uman,  metaphysics  at  'Askar-Mukram  in  Susiana, 
and  ended  his  studies  at  Bagdad,  under  Ibn  Duraid, 
who  taught  him  philology.  For  forty  years  he  acted  as 
coadjutor  to  the  Grand  Cadi  of  the  Hanafites  in  the 
Mosque  of  Rusafa,  and  also  gave  lessons  in  grammar. 
He  died  in  979.  He  lived  a  retired  and  very  serious  life. 
He  had  imbibed  Mu'tazilite  views,  which  he  concealed, 
from  the  teachings  of  Abu  Muhammad  ibn  'Umar.  He 
lived  by  the  work  of  his  hands,  gaining  his  bread  by 
copying  manuscripts. 

Al-Sarraj  and  Ibn  Duraid  had  a  pupil  named  Abu'l- 
Hasan  'Ali  ibn  'Isa  al-Rummani,  the  Ikhshidite  (the  Book- 
seller) (908-994),  whose  family  originally  belonged  to 
Samarra.  He  was  born  and  died  at  Bagdad.  If  we 
may  judge  by  the  work  he  has  left,  and  which  is  noAV 
in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale — the  sole  survivor  of  the 
eighteen  books  he  wrote — he  chiefly  applied  himself  to 
the  solution  of  grammatical  difficulties. 


ISO  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Yet  another  Persian  we  find  in  the  person  of  Abu 
'Alt  al-Hasan  ibn  Ahmad  al-Farisi,  of  Fasa  (902-987). 
He  came  to  Bagdad  for  purposes  of  study  at  the  age 
of  eighteen,  went  to  the  court  of  Saif  al-daula  at  Aleppo  in 
952,  and  thence  to  Shiraz,  to  that  of  the  Buwaihid  ruler, 
'Adud  al-daula,  to  whom  he  dedicated  his  Kitdb  al-lddh 
(Book  of  Grammatical  Explanation)  and  his  Takmila 
(Supplement).    He  came  back  to  Bagdad,  and  died  there. 

Very  soon  after  the  Bassora  School,  arose  that  of 
Kufa,  of  which  it  may  be  predicated  that  it  aimed 
much  less  than  did  its  elder  at  confining  the  Arab 
tongue  to  narrow  paradigms.  It  consequently  relied 
more  on  the  customs  of  the  living  language  than  on 
the  artificial  constructions  of  the  grammarians.  Its 
foundation  was  attributed  to  a  contemporary  of  Khalil, 
Abu  Ja'far  Muhammad  ibn  Abi  Sara  al-Ru'S.si.  His 
pupil,  Al-Kisa'1  ('All  ibn  Hamza),  was  of  Persian  de- 
scent. He,  too,  studied  under  Khalil  at  Bassora,  and, 
advised  by  him,  undertook  a  long  journey  amongst  the 
desert  tribes,  considered  the  depositaries  of  the  purest 
form  of  the  language.  He  was  the  author  of  a  parti- 
cular manner  of  reading  the  Koran,  and  ranks  as  one 
of  the  seven  canonical  readers.  Harun  al-Rashid  en- 
trusted him  with  the  education  of  his  two  sons,  Amin 
and  Ma'mun.  He  was  an  adversary  of  Sibawaih.  He 
died  at  Ranbuya,  near  Rai  (Rhages,  not  far  from  the 
present  Teheran),  towards  805. 

The  only  work  of  his  remaining  to  us,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  frequent  quotations  to  be  met  with  in 
other  authors,  is  a  treatise  on  the  mistakes  in  the  lan- 
guage of  the  vulgar  {Risdlafi  la/m  al-dmma),  preserved 
in  the  Berlin  Library,  and  probably  the  most  ancient 
work  on  the  subject. 


THE  'ABBASIDS  151 

His  chief  disciple  was  Al-Farra  (Abu  Zakariya  ibn 
Ziyad),  like  him,  of  Persian  origin,  his  family  being 
of  the  rough  mountain  race  of  Dailam.  Caliph  Mainun 
chose  him  to  be  his  sons'  tutor:  he  taught  grammar 
at  Bagdid.  He  died  on  his  road  to  Mecca,  in  822,  at  the 
age  of  sixty. 

Al-Mufaddal  AL-DABBt  employed  himself  in  collect- 
ing the  lines  of  the  ancient  poets,  and  the  Arab  proverbs. 
Both  these  works  have  been  preserved.  The  first  is  the 
Mufaddaliyydt,  which  he  put  together  for  his  pupil  Prince 
Al-Mahdi ;  the  second,  the  Kitdb  al-Amthdl.  At  o.ne 
moment  Al-Mufaddal  played  a  part  in  politics  which  very 
nearly  cost  him  dear.  He  took  part  in  the  rebellion  of 
the'Alid,  Ibrahim,  called  by  his  own  partisans  the  Pure 
Soul,  against  the  Caliph  Mansur.  The  grammarian  was 
thrown  into  prison,  but  ultimately  pardoned,  and  ap- 
pointed tutor  to  the  ruler's  son.  He  died  in  786,  leaving 
as  his  disciple  Abu  'Amr  Ishaq  ibn  Mirar  al-Shaibani, 
who  also  collected  the  ancient  poetry,  and  who  died  in 
821.  He  made  a  special  study  of  the  anecdotes,  rare 
forms  of  expression,  and  improvised  poetry  of  the  nomad 
tribes.  His  son  tells  us  that  he  collected  and  classified 
the  poems  of  more  than  eighty  tribes  :  when  he  had 
gathered  all  he  could  find  in  one  encampment,  he  pub- 
lished the  result  of  his  labour  there,  and  deposited  a 
copy  in  the  mosque  at  Kufa.  He  also  wrote  more  than 
eighty  volumes  with  his  own  hand.  Another  of  Mufad- 
dal's  pupils  was  IBN  AL-A'rab1  (Muhammad  ibn  Ziyad) ; 
Mufaddal  had  married  his  mother,  whose  first  husband, 
the  father  of  Ibn  al-Arabi,  had  been  a  slave  from  the 
Indus.  He  died  at  Samarra  in  April  846.  His  know- 
ledge of  the  rare  forms  of  expression  placed  him  in  the 
foremost  rank,  and  he  criticised  the  philological  works  of 


IS2  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

others,  pointing  out  tlie  faults  they  contained.  He  had  a 
prodigious  memory.  One  of  his  pupils,  Abu'l-' Abbas 
Tha'lab,  attended  his  lectures  for  ten  years,  and  never 
once  saw  a  book  in  his  hand  :  yet  he  dictated  several 
camel-loads  of  philological  texts  to  his  pupils. 

Ibn  AL-Sikkit  (Abu  Yusuf  Yaqub  ibn  Ishaq)  was 
the  son  of  a  Susian,  and  probably  of  Aramean  descent. 
He,  too,  spent  much  time  amongst  the  Bedouins,  to 
complete  his  knowledge  of  the  Arab  tongue.  The 
celebrity  of  his  works  induced  Caliph  Al-Mutawakkil 
to  entrust  him  with  the  education  of  his  son  Al- 
Mu  tazz.  His  avowed  support  of  the  pretensions  of  the 
'Alids,  which  he  never  concealed  even  from  the  Caliph 
himself,  brought  him  rough  treatment  at  the  hands  of 
the  ruler's  Turkish  body-guard,  by  whom  he  was  so  chas- 
tised and  trampled  upon  that  he  died  two  days  afterwards, 
in  857.  He  is  said,  as  a  grammarian,  to  have  lacked 
acumen.  His  best  work  is  his  Isldh  al-Mantiq  (Correc- 
tion of  Language) ;  he  also  wrote  commentaries  on  the 
diwdns  of  Al-Khansa  and  Tarafa.  One  of  his  pupils  was 
Abu  Talib  al  -Mufaddal  ibn  Salama,  who  was  the  com- 
rade of  Path  ibn  Khaqan  and  of  Ismail  ibn  Bulbul,  both 
of  them  ministers  in  the  service  of  Mutawakkil,  wrote  a 
collection  of  proverbs,  under  the  title  of  Ghdyat  al-Adab 
(The  Height  of  Morality),  and  died  in  920. 

But  the  man  who  really  carried  on  the  teaching  of  Ibn 
al-A'rabi  was  Abii'l- Abbas  Ahmad  ibn  Yahya  Tha'lab 
(815-904).  Complete  confidence  was  placed  in  his  com- 
petence as  to  all  matters  of  tradition  :  even  as  a  young  man, 
his  reputation  as  a  good  relater  of  Arabic  poems  was 
widespread.  His  master,  Ibn  al-A'rabi,  did  not  hesitate 
to  appeal  to  his  pupil's  knowledge  in  the  case  of  doubtful 
questions.     He   wrote  the  Kitdb  al-Fasih,  on   the  form 


THE  'ABBAsIDS  153 

and  meaning  of  doubtful  words,  and  the  Qawaidal-Ski'r, 
rules  for  poetical  composition,  and  also  collected  and 
published  the  diwdns  of  Zn\\2AX  and  Al-A'sha.  He  died 
at  Bagdad,  from  an  accident. 

His  pupils  were  :  First,  IBN  al-Axbar!  (Abu  Bakr 
Muhammad  ibn  al-Qasim)  (885-939),  the  son  of  a  learned 
traditionist  and  grammarian,  who  communicated  his 
knowledge  to  his  son.  He  was  a  pious  man,  who  made 
it  his  rule  of  life  to  follow  the  Sunna,  or  tradition  of 
the  Prophet.  He  wrote  the  Kitdb  gharib  al-Hadtth  (Book 
of  Rare  and  Curious  Expressions  found  in  the  Traditions), 
which  is  quoted  by  Ibn  al-Athir  in  the  preface  to  his 
Nihdya;  the  Kitab  a/- A dddd  (Book  of  Words  possessing 
opposite  Meanings),  published  by  Houtsma  ;  the  Kitdb 
al-iddh  (Book  of  the  Explanation),  dealing  with  the 
pauses  and  openings  of  the  verses  in  reading  the  Koran. 
He  had  a  pupil  named  Ibn  al- Uzair  (or  Ibn  al-'Uzairi) 
Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  ibn  'Umar,  whose  family  be- 
longed to  Sijistan.  He  died  in  941,  having  written, 
under  the  title  of  Nuzhat  al-quMb  (Pleasure  of  the 
Hearts),  a  dictionary  of  the  rare  expressions  in  the 
Koran. 

Secondly,  Al-Mutarriz  (Abij  'Umar  Muhammad  ibn 
'Abdal-wahid  al-Zahid)  (874-956),  whose  fidelity  to  his 
master  won  him  the  surname  of  Ghulam  Tha'lab 
(Faithful  Servant  of  Tha'lab).  His  pupil,  Ibn  Khalawaih 
(died  in  980),  arranged  and  edited  his  Kitdb  al-  Ashardt 
(Book  of  the  Tens),  explaining  words  which  ten  by 
ten  have  the  same  beginning.  His  astounding  memory 
and  infallible  erudition  attracted  the  hatred  of  his  rivals, 
who  vainly  strove  to  find  weak  spots  in  his  truth  and 
correctness. 

The  two  rival  schools  of  Bassora  and  Kufa  disappeared 


154  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

in  the  fourth  century  of  the  Hegira,  and  were  fused  into 
what  may  be  called  the  Bagdad  School,  which  endea- 
voured to  amalgamate,  naturally,  the  opposing  tendencies 
of  the  two  provincial  towns,  whose  glory  faded  day  by 
day  before  the  splendour  and  power  of  the  city  founded 
by  AI-Mansur.  To  Bagdad,  as  the  capital  of  the  States, 
gathered  all  the  chief  intellects  of  the  Empire. 

IBN  QUTAIBA  (Abu  Muhammad  Abdallah  ibn  Mus- 
lim) (828-889 '')  'w^s  born  either  at  Bagdad  or  at  Kufa. 
His  father  came  from  Merv,  and  he  was  consequently 
of  an  Iranian  stock.  For  some  time  he  acted  as  qddi  at 
Dinawar  in  'Iraq'Ajami,  and  afterwards  taught  at  Bagdad, 
where  he  died.  He  proved  himself  not  only  a  gram- 
marian, but  an  historian  :  he  bore  his  share  in  the 
theological  discussions  which  occupied  men's  minds  at 
that  period,  and  championed  Moslem  tradition  against 
the  scepticism  arising  from  the  perusal  of  Syrian,  and 
later,  Arabic,  translations  of  the  Greek  philosophers.  He 
wrote  the  ''UyCtn  al-Akhbar  (Sources  of  the  Traditions), 
published  by  Brockelmann,  a  kind  of  "select  extracts" 
from  the  works  of  the  pre-Islamic  poems,  with  selected 
specimens  from  the  traditions  and  from  history ;  the 
Kitdb  al-Mddrif  (Book  of  Knowledge),  a  manual  of 
history,  published  by  Wiistenfeld  ;  the  Adab  al-Kdtib, 
or  Secretary's  Guide;  and  the  Tabaqdt  al-Shuard,  on 
the  different  classes  of  poets. 

Abu  Hanifa  AL-DInawar!  (Ahmad  ibn  Da'ud)  was  of 
Persian  extraction,  as  his  grandfather's  name,  Wanand, 
denotes.  He  was  a  man  of  really  encyclopaedic  intellect, 
who,  after  studying  literature  under  Ibn  al-Sikkit,  learnt 
mathematics,  geography,  astronomy,  and  history.  He 
died  in  895.  His  Kitdb  al-Nabdt  {Jiook  oi  Plants)  was 
not,  properly  speaking,  a  treatise  on  natural  history,  but 


THE  'ABBASIDS  155^ 

a  literary  work.  It  dealt  with  the  plants  mentioned  in 
the  ancient  Arab  poems.  This  book  is  known  to  us 
through  the  extracts  from  it  preserved  in  the  Khizdnat  al- 
Adab.  On  the  other  hand,  his  historical  work,  Kitdb  al- 
AkhbAr  al- Tiw dl  {^ook  of  Long  Stories),  now  in  the  St. 
Petersburg  Library,  has  been  published  by  W.  Guirgass. 
It  is  written  from  the  Persian  point  of  view,  Alexander 
and  the  legendary  history  of  the  ancient  Persians,  the 
conquest  of  'Iriq  by  the  Arabs,  and  the  long  struggles 
of  the  Caliph  Ali  with  his  competitors,  occupying  an 
important  place  in  its  pages. 

Al-Nash!  AL-Akbar  (that  is  to  say,  senior)  Abu'l- 
'Abbas  Ibn  Shirshir  was  born  at  Anbar,  a  village  on  the 
Lower  Euphrates,  the  name  of  which  reveals  its  Persian 
origin;  it  signifies  "shop"  in  that  tongue — not,  as  has 
been  thought,  the  Greco-Latin  term  iixiroptov,  emporium. 
He  lived  at  Bagdad,  and  died  in  Egypt  in  906.  He 
was  a  poet,  and  wrote  hunting  scenes  and  didactic 
poems  relating  to  sport.  He  has  written  fine  verses 
descriptive  of  falcons.  He  also  turned  his  attention  to 
grammar,  prosody,  and  scholastic  theology.  Great 
praise  has  been  showered  on  his  logical  skill  and  subtle 
dialectics,  which  enabled  him  to  controvert  all  the  proofs 
brought  forward  by  the  grammarians  in  support  of  their 
doctrines.  He  attacked  the  principles  of  versification 
established  by  Khalil,  and  invented  an  entirely  different 
system. 

The  same  school  may  also  claim  the  Shaikh  al-lslam 
Ibrahim  ibn  Ishaq  al-HarbI,  of  Merv  (814-898),  who 
wrote  on  legal  and  theological  subjects ;  he  was  the 
pupil  of  Ahmad  ibn  Hanbal,  founder  of  the  orthodox 
rite  of  the  Hanbalites  :  Al-Washsha  (Abu'l-Tayyib  Mu- 
hammad ibn  Ahmad),  the  follower  of  Al-Mubarrad  and 


156  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

of  Tha'lab,  who  died  at  Bagdad  in  936,  a  humble  school- 
master, but  an  elegant  writer,  who,  in  his  Kiidb-al- 
Muwashshd,  published  by  M.  Briinnow,  has  left  us  a 
lively  and  most  interesting  picture  of  the  civilisation  of 
his  day,  and  a  collection  of  model  letters  as  well ;  these 
are  now  at  Berlin :  Abu'1-Fadl  al-Harawi,  a  Persian, 
born  at  Herat,  and  disciple  of  the  same  masters  ;  he  died 
in  940,  after  writing  a  Kitdb  Mafdkhir  al-maqdla  (Book 
of  Glorious  Discourses),  the  manuscript  of  which  is 
preserved  at  Constantinople  :  and  Al-Akhfash  the  Little, 
editor  of  the  Kdmil  of  Al-Mubarrad,  and  commentator 
of  Sibawaih's  Book,  who  travelled  to  Egypt  in  900, 
returned  in  918,  and  died  at  Bagdad  in  920. 

IBN  AL-Marzuban  (Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  ibn  Khalaf), 
died  921,  wrote  a  book  to  demonstrate  the  superio- 
rity of  the  dog  over  most  men  (the  manuscript  is  now 
in  Berlin),  but  nothing  further  is  known  about  him. 
Ibn  Khalavvaih  (Abu  'Abdallah  al-Husain),  the  pupil  of 
Ibn  Duraid  and  Al-Anbari,  studied  the  traditions  of  the 
Prophet,  and  was  even  professor  of  that  subject  for  a 
time,  in  the  great  Mosque  at  Medina.  In  later  years  he 
went  to  Aleppo,  entered  the  service  of  the  Hamdanids, 
and  was  much  in  the  company  of  the  poet  Mutanabbi. 
He  died  at  Aleppo  in  980.  He  was  the  author  of  a  book 
called  Laisa,  on  the  exceptions  occurring  in  the  Arabic 
tongue,  the  text  of  which,  from  the  unique  manuscript 
now  in  the  British  Museum,  has  been  published  by 
H.  Derenbourg.  Ibn  Jinni  (Abul-Fath  'Uthman),  of 
Mosul,  was  the  son  of  a  Greek  slave.  He  taught  in 
his  native  town,  after  having  studied  at  Bagdad  under 
the  grammarian  Abu  "Ali  al-Farisi,  of  the  Bassora 
School.  He  ultimately  returned  to  the  capital,  actually 
took  his  former  master's  place,  and  died  there  in  1002.   His 


THE  'ABBASIDS  157 

many  works,  of  which  only  a  few  are  now  in  existence, 
are  remarkable  for  the  way  in  which  he  has  applied 
philosophy  to  the  study  of  grammar.  His  treatise  on 
the  principles  of '  inflection  has  been  translated  into 
Latin,  and  published  by  G.  Hoberg.  Abil  Hilal  al- 
"Askari  (al-Hasan  ibn  'Abdallah)  was  the  author  of  a 
collection  of  proverbs,  of  works  on  the  rules  of  compo- 
sition in  prose  and  verse,  and  on  various  literary  subjects, 
and  of  a  commentary  on  the  diwdn  of  Abu  Mihjan. 
Ibn  Asad  al-Bazzaz,  the  cloth  merchant  (Abu  'Abdallah 
Muhammad),  author  of  a  book  to  explain  difficult  lines 
of  poetry,  was  celebrated  for  his  penmanship — hence  his 
surname,  al-Katib,  the  secretary;  he  was  the  master 
of  the  famous  caligrapher  Ibn  al-Bawwab.  Al-Zujaji 
(Abu'l-Qasim  Yusuf  ibn  'Abdallah),  who  died  in 
1024,  wrote  a  book  containing  the  names  of  the 
different  parts  of  the  human  body,  in  alphabetical  order. 
In  Persia,  about  the  same  period,  'Abdal-Rahman  ibn 
'Isa  al-Hamadhani,  a  secretary  and  caligrapher,  who 
died  in  932,  was  writing  his  Kitdb  al-Alfdz  al-Kitdbiyya, 
a  book  on  synonymy,  edited  by  the  Rev.  Father  Cheikho, 
at  Beyrout.  Abu  Ibrahim  Ishaq  ibn  Ibrahim,  of  the 
town  of  Farab  (or  Otrar),  in  Turkestan,  lived  for  some 
time  at  Zabid,  where  he  wrote  his  Diwdn  al-Adab,  for 
Atsiz,  King  of  Khwarizm  (Khiva).  He  then  returned  to 
his  native  town,  and  taught  there  till  he  died,  in  961.  He 
was  the  master  and  instructor  of  his  nephew,  the  famous 
lexicographer  Al-Jauhar!  (Abu  Nasr  Ismail  ibn 
Hammad),  who,  after  having  studied  under  his  uncle  at 
Farab,  proceeded  to  Bagdad,  where  he  took  advantage  of 
the  lessons  given  by  Al-Farisi  and  Al-Sirafi.  To  perfect 
his  knowledge  of  the  Arabic  tongue,  he  travelled  about 
"Iraq  'Arabi  and  the  Syrian  Desert,  then  returned  east- 


158  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

ward,  and  settled,  in  the  first  place,  at  Damghan,  and 
then  at  Nishapur,  in  Khurasan,  where  he  died,  towards 
1002,  from  the  effects  of  a  fall  either  from  the  roof  of 
his  own  house,  or  from  that  of  the  great  Mosque.  On 
this  point  versions  differ.  His  great  dictionary,  al-Sahdh 
fil-Liigha,  is  alphabetically  arranged,  according  to  the 
order  of  the  last  radical  letter,  a  curious  arrangement,  to 
which  his  successors  have  adhered,  and  which,  useful  as 
it  is  to  poets,  is  perhaps  more  useful  still  to  their  critics, 
for  my  readers  are  aware  that  several  Arabic  letters  are 
only  differentiated  by  their  distinguishing  dots.  When 
one  of  these  dots  is  forgotten  by  the  copyist,  which  fre- 
quently occurs,  the  word  becomes  unintelligible.  The 
order  adopted  by  Al-Jauhari  perhaps  allows  of  an  easier 
rectification  of  these  errors  than  would  be  the  case  if  our 
plan  of  arranging  the  Arabic  roots  according  to  the  order 
of  the  first  radical  were  adhered  to.  He  himself  drew  up 
about  one  half  of  the  work ;  the  rest  was  completed  by  one 
of  his  pupils,  Abu  Ish&q  Ibrahim  ibn  Salih  al-Warraq 
(the  Paper-seller  or  Bookseller),  who  allowed  a  few  errors 
to  creep  in. 

Other  lexicographers  were  working  at  the  same  time 
and  on  the  same  subject.  Al-Azhar{  (Abu  Mansur 
Muhammad  ibn  Ahmad),  born  at  Herat  in  895,  was 
coming  back  from  his  pilgrimage  to  Mecca  when  the 
caravan  was  pillaged  (26th  April  924),  and  he  fell  into 
the  hands  of  a  Bedouin  tribe  which  shifted  its  camp, 
according  to  the  seasons,  from  one  part  of  the  peninsula 
to  another.  This  fact  enabled  the  Persian  prisoner, 
much  against  the  grain,  to  learn  his  Arabic  at  the  foun- 
tain head.  Once  delivered  out  of  his  captivity,  he 
returned  to  his  native  town,  taught  there  for  many  years, 
and  died  there  in  981.     His  dictionary,  the  Tahdhib  al* 


THE  'ABBASIDS  159 

Lugha,  adopts  the  arrangement  followed  by  Khalil  in  his 
Kitdb-al-  A  in. 

The  S&hib  IBN  'AbbAd  (Abiil-Qasim  Ismail)  al- 
Talaqani,  born  at  Talaqan,  near  Qazvin,  in  938,  was  the 
son  of  the  vizier  of  the  Buwaihid  princes  Rukn  al-daula 
and  'Adud  al-daula ;  he  was  the  first  to  receive  the  title 
of  sdhib,  or  comrade.  He  attended  the  lessons  of  Ibn 
Paris  at  Rai,  and  completed  his  studies  at  Bagdad. 
When  he  returned  from  this  city,  the  Buwaihid  prince 
Mu'ayyid  al-daula,  whose  companion  he  had  been  in 
boyhood,  chose  him  to  be  his  minister,  and  he  con- 
tinued to  hold  the  post  under  the  prince's  successor, 
Fakhr  al-daula.  He  was  a  patron  of  art  and  science,  and 
himself  wrote  poems  and  letters  which  have  been  col- 
lected under  the  title  of  Kdfi' l-Kufdt.  The  third  volume 
of  his  Muhit,  a  dictionary  in  alphabetical  order,  in  seven 
volumes,  now  preserved  in  the  Khedivial  Library  at 
Cairo,  contains  a  very  large  number  of  words,  insuffi- 
ciently supported  by  a  very  few  instances.  He  died  in 
995.  He  was  popular  at  Rai,  and  his  funeral,  over  which 
the  prince  presided  in  person,  called  forth  a  great 
demonstration  of  sorrow. 

Ibn  Paris  Al-Raz1  (Abial-Husain  Ahmad)  was  a 
teacher  at  Hamadhan,  where  one  of  his  pupils  was  Badi' 
al-Zaman  Hamadhani,  author  of  the  Lectures.  He  was 
presently  summoned  to  Rai  by  Pakhr  al  -  daula,  to  be 
tutor  to  his  son  Abu  Talib.  He  is  the  first  instance  we 
have  of  a  writer  of  Iranian  descent  who  takes  the  Arab 
side  in  the  conflicts  of  the  ShuHibiyya.  He  also  wrote 
polished  verses,  amongst  others  those  in  which  he 
satirised  the  natives  of  Hamadhan,  whose  ignorance  was 
proverbial  :  "Why  should  I  not  offer  up  a  silent  prayer 
for  the  town  in  which  I  have  had  the;  advantage  of  for- 


i6o  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

getting  everything  I  ever  learnt  ?"  He  died  at  Rai  in 
1005.  His  Mujmal  fi'l-Lugha  is  a  dictionary  arranged 
in  the  order  of  the  first  radical  letter.  His  Fiqh  al- 
Lugha  (Jurisprudence  of  the  Language)  is  an  intro- 
duction to  Arabic  lexicography,  full  of  philosophical 
reflections. 

Ahmad  ibn  Muhammad  al-Harawi  came  from  Herat. 
He  was  the  pupil  of  Al-Azhari,  and  died  in  loio.  He 
wrote  the  Kitdb  al-Gharibain  (Book  of  the  Two  Wonders), 
a  treatise  on  the  obscure  expressions  found  in  the  Koran 
and  the  traditions.  This  work,  which  was  considered 
exceedingly  practical,  was  copied  over  and  over  again, 
and  several  of  these  manuscripts  are  now  in  Europe. 
The  author  of  this  serious  book  was  fond  of  conversing 
on  loose  subjects,  did  not  deny  himself  the  luxury  of 
drinking  wine  in  private,  and  surrounded  himself  with 
witty  companions,  whose  pleasure  parties  he  shared. 
His  contemporary,  Nizam  al-din  Hasan  ibn  Muhammad 
of  Nishapur,  wrote  a  book  of  the  same  nature  on  the 
Koran,  and  simultaneously  composed  a  commentary  on 
the  Almagest  of  Ptolemy. 

Egypt,  too,  shared  in  the  movement,  as  is  proved  by 
the  labours  of  Ibn  Wallad  (Ahmad  ibn  Muhammad), 
a  pupil  of  Al-Zajjaj,  who  died  at  Cairo  in  943,  and 
wrote  a  dictionary  of  the  words  ending  with  the  vowel 
a,  long  or  short  {Kitdb  al-maqsilr  wa  l-inainditd)  ;  of 
Al-Nahhas  (Abu  Ja'far),  a  pupil  of  the  same  master, 
a  teacher  at  Cairo,  who  was  thrown  into  the  Nile  in 
May  950  by  a  man  of  the  lower  orders,  who  took  the 
verses  he  was  reciting  as  he  sat  on  the  steps  of  the 
Miqyds  or  Nilometer  on  the  Island  of  Rauda  for  an  in- 
cantation intended  to  prevent  the  rise  of  the  river,  and 
thus  to  bring  about  famine  and  dearness  of  food.     He 


THE  'ABBASIDS  i6i 

was  a  man  of  sordid  habits.  So  mean  was  he  that  if 
anybody  gave  him  a  piece  of  muslin  to  roll  round  his 
turban,  he  would  cut  it  into  three  strips. 

Spain  had  enjoyed  the  benefit  of  the  teaching  of 
ABt>  'ALi  (Ismail  ibn  al-Qasim)  AL-Qal1  (901-967),  of 
the  town  of  Qaliqala,  in  Armenia.  He  was  a  student 
at  Bagdad  in  915,  left  that  city  in  939,  travelled  into 
the  distant  regions  of  the  Maghrib,  and  wandered  at 
last  to  Cordova,  where  he  settled  as  a  teacher  of 
grammar.  The  work  dictated  by  him  to  his  Spanish 
pupils  is  known  under  the  title  of  Kitdb  al-Amdli  (Book 
of  Dictations) ;  it  is  an  anthology,  filled  with  traditions 
relating  to  the  Prophet,  an  immense  number  of  notes 
on  the  proverbs,  language,  and  poetry  of  the  ancient 
Arabs,  anecdotes  concerning  the  poets  at  the  Caliphs' 
courts,  prose  pieces,  and  verses  preserved  by  oral 
tradition.  Another  book  of  his,  the  Kitdb  el-Bdi'i^,  was 
devoted  to  the  traditions  of  the  Prophet.  His  chief 
disciple  was  ABt)  Bakr  Muhammad  ibn  al- Hasan 
AL-Zubaid!,  who  completed,  under  his  guidance,  the 
studies  he  had  begun  under  Spanish  teachers.  His 
family  belonged  to  Emesa,  in  Syria,  but  he  was  born 
at  Seville  in  918.  When  his  studies  at  Cordova  were 
completed,  he  was  appointed  by  the  Caliph  Mustansir 
al-Hakam  to  superintend  the  education  of  his  son 
Hisham,  who,  when  he  succeeded  his  father,  made  his 
old  tutor  qddi  and  chief  watchman  over  the  city  of 
Seville.  Here  he  died  in  989.  His  appointment  brought 
him  wealth,  which  his  descendants  enjoyed  for  many  a 
year.  He  composed  a  considerable  amount  of  poetry ; 
the  Wddih  (Clear  Treatise)  on  grammar,  now  in  the 
Escurial  Library ;  the  Istidrdk,  published  by  Guidi ; 
and  a  classified  list  of  the  grammarians  and  philologists 


1 62  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

who  had  flourished  before  his  own  time,  both  in  Spain 
and  in  the  East,  of  which  use  has  been  made  by  SuyutJ 
in  his  Mizhar. 


The  Nizamiyya  University  at  Bagdad 

The  foundation  of  the  Nizimiyya  University  at 
Bagdad  provided  a  natural  rallying-point  for  the  study 
of  classical  literature.  Here  numerous  works  on  poetry, 
rhetoric,  and  lexicography  were  elaborated,  for  the  most 
part  by  professors  of  Persian  origin. 

Yahya  ibn  'Ali,  surnamed  Al-Khatib,  and  known  under 
the  name  of  Al-Tabrizi  (1030-1109),  was  born  at  Tabriz, 
in  Persia.  He  studied  the  traditions  at  Sur,  the  Tyre 
of  the  ancients  ;  he  had  learnt  philology  under  the 
poet  Abu'1-Ala  al-Ma'arri;  he  taught  for  some  time 
in  Egypt,  and  then  went  to  Bagdad,  where  he  was  a 
professor  at  the  Nizamiyya  till  he  died. 

We  are  told  that,  when  he  would  have  gone  to  ask 
Abu'l-'Ala  al-Ma'arri  to  direct  his  study  of  Abii 
Mansur  al-Azhari's  Kitdb  al-Tahdhib,  he  had  no  money 
wherewith  to  hire  a  horse,  so  he  put  the  book  into  a 
sack  and  started  to  walk  the  long  journey  from  Persia 
to  Syria.  The  sweat  on  his  back  oozed  through  the 
material  of  his  sack  and  stained  the  precious  manuscript, 
which  was  long  preserved  and  shown  to  visitors  in  one  of 
the  libraries  of  Bagdad.  He  wrote  a  treatise  on  prosody 
and  metre,  an  abridgment  of  the  grammar  of  the  Koran, 
and  commentaries  on  the  Muallaqat,  the  Hamdsa,  the 
diwdn  of  Abii  Tammam,  and  that  of  his  own  master, 
Abu'l- Ala  al-Maarri. 

His  pupil  was  Abu  Mansur  Mauhub  IBN  AL- 
jAWALfgt   (1073-1 145),   of   Bagdad,  who   is   known   by 


THE  -ABBASIDS  163 

his  book  on  foreign  words  introduced  into  the  Arabic, 
which  has  been  pubhshed  by  Monsieur  Sachau,  and 
by  his  Takmila,  a  supplement  to  Hariri's  Pearl  of  the 
Diver,  which  has  been  edited  by  H.  Derenbourg  under 
the  title  of  Book  of  Faulty  Locutions.  Another  work 
of  his,  on  the  names  of  Arab  horses  and  of  their 
riders,  may  be  seen  in  manuscript  in  the  Escurial 
and  at  Munich.  He  was  famous  for  his  penmanship, 
and  manuscripts  in  his  hand  were  eagerly  sought  after. 
He  acted  as  Imam  to  the  Caliph  Al-Muktafi,  and  led 
the  five  daily  prayers  at  which  the  monarch  was 
habitually  present.  A  pupil  asked  him,  one  day,  to 
explain  two  lines  of  poetry  which  contained  some 
technical  terms  of  astronomy,  and  he,  perceiving  he 
knew  nothing  of  that  science,  made  a  vow  never  to 
teach  again  until  he  had  mastered  the  movements  of 
the  sun  and  moon. 

Abu'l-Maali  Muhammad  ibn  al-Hasan  IBN  HamdOn 
(1101-1167),  surnamed  Kdfi'l-Kufdt,  or  "the  Most  Per- 
fect of  Men,"  was  born  at  Bagdad,  of  a  well-to-do  family, 
members  of  which  had  served  the  government  as  states- 
men. He  began  his  career  in  the  army ;  under  Caliph 
Al-Mustanjid,  he  was  first  Inspector  of  the  Palace  and 
afterwards  Secretary  of  State.  While  holding  this  latter 
post,  he  was  so  imprudent  as  to  blame  openly,  and  in 
an  official  document,  the  evils  he  saw  around  him.  He 
was  dismissed  and  cast  into  prison,  where  he  shortly 
died.  He  left,  under  the  title  of  al-Tadhkira,  an  historical 
and  philological  anthology  in  twelve  volumes,  on  which 
Alfred  von  Kremer  has  founded  his  researches  into  pre- 
Islamic  Arab  history  and  customs. 

Sa'id  ibn  al-Mubarak  Ibn  al-Dahhan,  who  was  born 
at  Bagdad  in  iioi,  made  his  reputation  there  as  a  first- 


1 64  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

rate  grammarian.  He  ultimately  left  that  city  to  pay  a 
visit  to  the  Vizier  Jamal  al-din  al-Isbahani  at  Mosul. 
During  his  absence  the  Tigris  overflowed  its  banks  and 
flooded  his  library.  Such  of  his  books  as  had  been 
saved  were  conveyed  to  him  at  Mosul.  As  they  had 
been  damaged  by  the  river  water,  he  tried  to  repair 
them  by  plunging  them  into  the  vapour  of  ladanuin, 
the  resin  of  the  Cretan  gum  cistus,  which  destroyed  his 
sight.  He  died  shortly  afterwards,  in  the  year  1173,  in 
this  same  town  of  Mosul.  All  that  remains  to  us  of  his 
work  is  his  Fusul,  on  the  art  of  prosody,  and  one  qasida, 
both  at  Gotha. 

Another  member  of  the  Nizamij^ya  University  was 
Kamal  al-din  'Abdal-Rahman  Ibn  AL-AnbarI  (1119- 
1181),  who  studied  and  afterwards  taught  philology 
there.  In  the  last  years  of  his  life  he  renounced 
all  society,  shut  himself  up  in  his  chamber,  and  gave 
himself  up  to  study  and  to  pious  exercises.  His 
Mysteries  of  the  Arab  Tongue  (Asrar  al-'Arabiyya),  a 
grammar,  has  been  published  at  Leyden  by  Herr 
Seybold.  His  book  "  of  the  Just  Decision  between  the 
grammarians  of  Bassora  and  those  of  Kiifa,"  written 
at  the  request  of  his  pupils  at  the  Nizamiyya,  has 
been  the  subject  of  a  grammatical  treatise  by  Koschut. 
His  Niizhat  al-alibbd  (The  Delight  of  Men  of  Feeling,  on 
the  Classes  of  Literary  Men)  is  a  history  of  Arabic  litera- 
ture from  its  earliest  origin  down  to  the  author's  own 
times.  It  has  been  lithographed  at  Cairo.  Other  works 
on  grammar  by  the  same  hand  are  at  Leyden  and  Paris. 

Muhibb  al-din  Abu'l-Baqa'Abdallah  al-UkbarI,  born 
in  1 130,  died  12 19,  was  regarded,  towards  the  end 
of  his  life,  as  a  distinguished  philologist.  He  had  also 
made  a  study  of  the  jurisprudence  of  the  Hanafite  rite. 


THE  'ABBASIDS  i6s 

His  skill  in  arithmetic  had  facilitated  his  study  of  the 
division  of  inheritances.  His  family  belonged  to  'Uk- 
bara,  a  village  on  the  Tigris,  above  Bagdad,  which  has 
been  the  cradle  of  several  remarkable  men.  He  was 
completely  blind.  He  was  the  author  of  commentaries 
on  Mutanabbi's  poetry,  and  on  Hariri's  Lectures,  on  the 
unusual  syntactic  expressions  occurring  in  the  ancient 
poets  {Kitdb  al-MAjiz),  and  on  the  causes  of  inflection, 
and  the  absence  of  it,  in  certain  words  {al-LubdU). 

The  Arabic  tongue  was  still  lovingly  studied  in  Persia. 
It  was  the  language  of  science  par  excellence.  There 
were  many  ideas  which  seemed  incapable  of  clear  and 
precise  expression  in  any  other.  The  Persian  language 
was  at  this  period  just  coming  back  to  life,  and  the 
dawn  of  that  brilliant  constellation  of  poets  who  have 
ensured  its  eternal  glory  was  beginning.  But  the  vulgar 
tongue,  which  the  men  of  letters  were  yet  forging  afresh 
upon  their  anvil,  lacked  many  words  which  had'  been 
lost,  and  must  perforce  be  replaced  by  others,  borrowed 
from  the  Arabic.  Thus  Arabic  played  the  part  of  Latin 
in  the  Middle  Ages ;  save  in  University  discussions,  it 
was  no  longer  spoken,  but  everybody  wrote  it. 

Abu  Mansur 'Abdal-Malik  Al-Tha'alib1,  born  at  Ntsha- 
pur  in  961,  who  died  in  1038,  was  a  busy  compiler, 
in  whose  work  we  note  the  bad  habit,  growing  daily 
more  general,  of  not  quoting  the  source  from  which  he 
borrows,  a  duty  which  had  been  sedulously  performed 
during  the  best  period  of  Arabic  literature.  His  great 
work,  Yattinat  al-dahr  ft  mahdsin  ahl  al-asr  (The  Unique 
Peai'l  of  the  Time,  on  the  fine  qualities  of  contemporary 
authors),  is  an  anthology  of  the  poets  of  his  time, 
arranged  according  to  the  countries  of  their  birth ;  to 
each    poetical   extract   is   prefixed   a  biography,   which 


1 66  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

is,  unfortunately,  very  brief.  His  Lataifal-Mddrif{]esis 
of  Science)  has  been  published  by  De  Jong  at  Leyden. 
His  Fiqh  al-lugha  (Jurisprudence  of  the  Language)  is  a 
dictionary  of  synonyms.  His  Lata  if  al-sahaba  wdl-tdbi 
'in  (Jests  of  the  Companions  of  the  Prophet  and  their 
Successors)  is  a  collection  of  tons  mots  dropped  by 
authorities  on  Moslem  law.  Extracts  from  this  have 
been  published  by  Cool  in  the  Chrestomathy  to  Roorda's 
Grammar ;  another  collection  of  ana  (ahdsin  Kalim 
al-nabi,  &c.)  has  been  studied  by  Valeton.  We  owe  him 
many  other  grammatical  works,  too  numerous  to  mention 
here.  To  conclude,  he  may  possibly  be  the  author  of 
the  Kitdb  al-Ghurar,  part  of  which,  dealing  with  an 
ancient  history  of  the  Persians,  has  been  translated 
and  published  by  Zotenberg. 

Abu'l-Hasan  Tahir  Ibn  Babashad,  although  he  spent 
his  whole  life  in  Egypt,  was  of  Persian  descent,  and 
belonged  to  the  southern  shores  of  the  Caspian.  He 
was  attached  to  the  Official  Correspondence  Office  at 
Cairo,  his  duty,  for  the  discharge  of  which  he  received 
a  monthly  salary,  being  to  attend  to  the  grammatical 
correctness  of  the  documents  submitted  to  him.  At  a 
later  period,  having  seen  a  cat  come  and  beg  food  for 
one  of  its  fellows,  which  had  gone  blind,  he  gave  up 
his  employment,  and  trusted  Providence  to  supply  his 
needs.  He  died  in  January  1077,  having  fallen,  one 
night,  from  the  roof  of  the  old  Mosque  at  Cairo  into  the 
interior  of  that  building.  He  left  a  manual  of  grammar, 
in  ten  chapters,  behind  him.  It  is  called  al-Muqaddirna 
(The  Preface),  and  has  been  the  subject  of  commentaries 
both  by  himself  and  by  other  authors. 

Abu  Bakr  'Abdal-Qahir  al-Jurjini,  who  died  in  1078, 
wrote  a  grammatical  treatise  on  the  hundred  governing 


THE  'ABBASIDS  167 

particles,  of  which  numerous  copies  have  been  made, 
now  to  be  found  in  every  library.  Both  Erpenius  (at 
Leyden  in  1617)  and  Baillie  and  Lockett  (at  Calcutta) 
have  given  it  their  attention.  Others  of  his  works 
on  syntax  have  been  honoured  by  frequent  commen- 
taries. 

Yet  another  Persian  compiler,  Abu'l-Qasim  al-Husain 
al-Raghib  AL-IsBAHANt,  of  Ispahan,  who  died  in  1108, 
collected  a  very  copious  literary  anthology  under  the 
title  of  Muhddarat  al-udabd  (Conversations  of  Literary 
Men) ;  he  wrote  a  dictionary  of  the  words  of  the  Koran 
arranged  in  alphabetical  order  {Mufraddt alfdz  al-Qur'dn), 
with  quotations  from  the  traditions  and  from  the  poets  ; 
he  also  wrote  a  treatise  on  morals,  which  Ghazali  always 
carried  about  with  him  {Kitdb  al-dhari  a),  and  a  com- 
mentary on  the   Koran. 

The  ancient  Arab  proverbs  were  put  together  at  this 
period  by  Abu'1-Fadl  Ahmad  al-Maidan1,  who  died 
at  Nishapur,  his  native  town,  in  11 24.  His  great  work 
formed  the  basis  of  Freytag's  Arabum  Proverbia.  His 
dictionary  {al-sdmi fi  I  asdmi)  and  his  work  on  syntax 
{al-hddi  li'l-Shddi)  have  been  somewhat  overshadowed 
by  the  success  of  the  Proverbs. 

Abu'l-Qasim  Mahmud  AL-ZAMAKHSHARf,  surnamed/<2r- 
Allah  (the  Neighbour  of  God),  on  account  of  his 
lengthy  sojourn  at  Mecca,  was  born  at  Zamakhshar  in 
Khwarizm  (the  present  Khanate  of  Khiva),in  107^.  His 
youth  was  spent  in  travelling  for  the  sake  of  study.  He 
made  the  holy  pilgrimage  to  Mecca,  and  died  in  his 
native  land,  in  the  town  of  Jurjaniyya  (Ourghendj,  the 
ancient  capital  of  the  country),  in  1143.  One  of  his  feet 
had  been  frost-bitten  during  a  winter  storm,  necessitating 
its  amputation,  and  he  wore  a  wooden  leg.      He  alwaj-s 


i68  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

carried  about  the  written  testimony  of  ocular  witnesses 
to  prove  he  had  been  maimed  by  an  accident,  and  not  in 
consequence  of  a  sentence  in  punishment  of  some  crime. 
He  was  a  declared  Mu'tazilite,  and  when  he  wrote  his 
commentary  on  the  Koran  he  began  it  with  the  words  : 
"  Praise  be  to  God,  who  created  the  Koran  ! "  Ortho- 
doxy at  a  later  date  replaced  the  word  "  created "  by 
"  revealed."  Although,  as  being  more  accessible  to  his 
readers,  he  used  interpretations  couched  in  Persian  in 
his  lexicographical  works,  he  was  so  convinced  of  the 
superiority  of  the  Arabic  that  he  opposed  all  the  ShuA- 
biyya  tendencies  to  which  we  have  already  referred. 
His  great  commentary  on  the  Koran  is  called  the  Kash- 
shdf  (That  which  Discovers  the  Truths  of  Revelation)  ; 
it  has  been  printed  at  Calcutta  and  at  Cairo,  and  many 
commentaries  on  it  have  appeared.  The  Kitdb  al- 
Mufassal  (The  Detailed)  is  a  complete  manual  of  Arabic 
grammar ;  it  has  been  published  by  Broch  at  Christiania. 
The  Muqaddimat  al-adab  (Preface  to  Literature)  is  an 
Arabic-Persian  dictionary,  which  has  been  published  by 
Wetzstein.  ^)\e.  Kitdb  al-Ainkina  {QodV^oi  Localities,  of  • 
Mountains  and  Waters),  a  geographical  lexicon,  has 
appeared  in  print,  thanks  to  the  care  of  Salverda  de 
Grave.  The  Nawdbigh  al-Kaliin  (The  Gushing  Words), 
a  collection  of  proverbs,  had  already  attracted  the  notice 
of  H.  A.  Schultens  in  the  eighteenth  century,  and  was  by 
him  translated  into  Latin  ;  Barbier  de  Meynard  has  inade 
a  more  recent  study  of  the  text.  The  Atwdq  al-dhahab 
(The  Golden  Necklaces),  moral  allocutions,  has  been 
translated  into  German  by  Joseph  von  Hammer,  by 
Fleischer  and  Weil,  and  into  French  by  Barbier  de 
Meynard. 
nThe  very  year  in  which  Zamakhshari  died  witnessed 


THE  'ABBASIDS  169 

the  birth,  in  the  same  country,  of  Abu'I-Fath  Nasir  AL- 
MUTARRlzt  (died  in  1213),  who  was  commonly  called 
his  successor.  While  carrying  on  his  literary  studies,  he 
taught  Hanafite  jurisprudence  and  the  dogmatics  of  the 
Mu'tazilite  School.  He  has  left  us  a  manual  of  syntax, 
the  Misbdh  (The  Lamp) ;  a  dictionary  of  the  rare  terms 
employed  in  the  style  written  by  jurisconsults,  al-Mugk- 
rib  ft  tartib  al-Murib  ;  a  lexicon  of  synonyms,  el-Iqnd''  ; 
and  a  commentary  on  Hariri's  Lectures.  In  1204,  in  the 
course  of  a  pilgrimage  to  Mecca,  he  went  to  Bagdad, 
held  frequent  controversy  on  the  subject  of  the  Mu  ta- 
zilite  doctrines,  and  at  the  same  time  gave  lessons  in 
philology. 

Khwarizm  was  also  the  birthplace  of  Siraj  al-din 
Yusuf  al-SakkakI  (i  160-1229).  He  was  the  author 
of  the  Miftdh  al-UlAm  (Key  of  the  Sciences),  a  work 
on  grammar  and  rhetoric  which  has  had  many  com- 
mentators. 

Kurdistan  produced  three  Ibn  el-Athirs  :  Majd 
al-din,  the  theologian;  'Izz  al-din,  the  historian;  and 
piya  al-din  Fakhr  al-din  Nasrallah  (1163-1239),  the 
man  of  letters.  This  last  was  born  in  the  little  town 
of  Jazirat  Ibn  'Umar,  on  the  banks  of  the  Tigris,  and 
at  the  foot  of  the  Kurdistan  mountains.  He  studied 
at  Mosul,  and  entered  the  service  of  Saladin  in  1191. 
In  the  following  year  we  find  him  acting  as  minister  to 
the  great  warrior's  son,  Al-Malik  al-Afdal.  When  his 
master  evacuated  Damascus,  Diya  al-din,  whose  life  was 
threatened,  was  fain  to  flee  into  Egypt,  where  he  hid 
himself  when  Al-Malik  al-'Adil  conquered  that  country, 
and  he  then  rejoined  his  master  at  Samosate.  In  12 10 
he  entered  the  service  of  Al-Malik  al-Zahir  at  Aleppo, 
and  in  1221  passed  into  that  of  Nasir  al-din,  Prince  of 


I70  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Mosul,  as  his  secretary.  He  died  at  Bagdad.  It  is 
difficult  to  understand  how,  in  the  midst  of  so  busy  a 
life,  with  such  constant  comings  and  goings,  he  con- 
trived, in  addition  to  his  masterly  correspondence,  which 
is  collected  under  the  title  of  Al-  Washy  dl-MarqAm,  has 
been  printed  at  Beyrout,  and  studied  by  Margoliouth, 
to  indulge  in  the  Jesthetic  and  critical  literary  studies 
which  resulted  in  his  book  Al-Matlial  al-Sdir,  to  which 
Goldziher  has  given  his  attention,  his  Poetics  (al-Burhan), 
and  his  Language  of  Flowet-s  (al-Azhar),  all  preserved  in 
manuscript  at  Berlin  and  in  Paris. 

In  Syria  we  find  Abu'1-Baqa  Ya'ish  IBN  Ya'ish,  sur- 
named  IBN  al-Sa'igh  (the  Goldsmith's  Son),  born  at 
Aleppo  in  1158.  He  was  on  his  way  to  Bagdad,  to  sit 
at  the  feet  of  Ibn  al-Anbari,  when  the  news  of  the  death 
of  that  master  reached  him  at  Mosul.  He  made  some  stay 
in  that  town,  and  then  returned  to  Aleppo,  where  he  acted 
as  a  teacher  of  literature  till  his  death  in  1245.  He  wrote 
a  commentary  on  Zamakhshari's  Mufassal.  Ibn  Khalli- 
kan,  the  author  of  the  Biographical  Dictionary,  took  advan- 
tage of  his  teaching  in  1229  :  he  has  recorded  his  lively 
admiration  for  his  master,  who  had  a  rare  gift  for  smooth- 
ing and  explaining  difficulties.  He  spoke  in  a  soft  voice, 
and  his  patience  with  such  of  his  pupils  as  were  beginners 
was  exemplary.  Beneath  his  grave  and  serious  nature 
he  hid  a  fund  of  humour.  One  day,  after  he  had  been 
explaining  an  Arabic  verse,  in  which  the  poet,  according 
to  a  well-known  form  of  imagery,  had  compared  his 
mistress  to  a  gazelle,  a  lawyer  of  the  company,  who  had 
listened  attentively,  and  had  apparently  understood  his 
meaning,  suddenly  interrupted  him  with  the  inquiry: 
"  Master,  will  you  tell  me  what  point  of  comparison 
exists    between    a    beautiful   woman    and    a    gazelle  ? " 


THE  'ABBASIDS  171 

"The  tail  and  the  horns,"  replied  the  angry  sage,  to 
the  delight  of  all  the  company. 

Jamal  al-din  Muhammad  iBN  Malik  al-Jayyani 
(1203-1273)  was  of  a  family  belonging  to  Jaen,  in 
Spain,  but  he  himself  was  born  in  Damascus.  He 
finished  his  studies  at  Aleppo,  became  a  teacher  of 
literature  at  Damascus,  and  died  there,  having  won  the 
reputation  of  being  the  greatest  philologist  of  his  time. 
He  wrote  a  great  book,  now  lost,  called  al-Fawd'id 
(Useful  Teachings),  on  the  subject  of  syntax,  an  extract 
from  which  appears  in  the  Tashil  al-fawa  id ;  the  Alfiyya, 
a  didactic  poem  on  grammar,  numbering  about  a  thou- 
sand lines,  which  has  been  frequently  printed,  and  on 
which  many  commentaries  have  been  written — it  has 
occupied  the  attention  of  Silvestre  de  Sacy,  Dieterici,  L. 
Pinto,  and  Goguyer  ;  and  the  Lainiyyat  al-Af'dl,  another 
didactic  poem  on  the  conjugations  of  the  Arabic  verbs, 
which  has  been  autographed  by  Wallin,  at  Helsingfors, 
and  published  by  Kellgren,  Volck,  and  Goguyer.  The 
manuscripts  of  other  and  less  celebrated  grammatical 
works,  on  syntax,  prosody,  and  synonymy,  are  to  be 
found  in  various  libraries. 

In  Southern  Arabia,  NashwAn  ibn  Sa'id  al-Himyari, 
a  poet  and  man  of  learning,  turned  his  attention  to  the 
traditions  of  his  native  country,  and  composed  an 
Himyarite  ode,  which  has  been  edited  by  Alfred  von 
Kremer  and  published  by  Prideaux,  but  on  the  historical 
accuracy  of  which  no  reliance  should  be  placed.  A 
dictionary.  Shams  al-iMun  (Sun  of  Learning),  and  a 
treatise  in  rhymed  prose  on  the  true  faith,  as  opposed  to 
the  tenets  of  the  various  sects,  and  the  dreams  of  the  philo- 
sophers, entitled  Kitdb  al-Mr  al-in  (Book  of  the  Houris 
with  Great  Eyes),  make  up  the  sum  of  his  literary  output. 


172  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Jamal  al-din  'Uthman  Ibn  al-Hajib,  the  son  of  a 
Kurdish  chamberlain  to  the  Amir  'Izz  al-din  Musak 
al-Salahi,  who  was  born  at  Esneh,  in  Upper  Egypt,  in 
1 175,  first  studied  MaHkite  law  and  the  reading  of  the 
Koran  at  Cairo,  then  devoted  himself  to  literature,  went 
to  Damascus,  and  taught  there  in  the  great  Mosque 
of  the  Omeyyads.  Later,  he  returned  to  Cairo,  and 
died  at  Alexandria,  where  he  had  just  settled,  in  1249. 
He  wrote  books  which  have  been  the  subject  of  many 
commentaries,  and  are  to  be  found  in  almost  every 
library  :  the  Kdfiya,  a  short  manual  of  grammar  ;  the 
Shdfiya,  a  work  of  the  same  kind  ;  the  Maqsad  al-jalil, 
on  prosody  ;  the  Anidlt,  or  dictated  lessons  on  the  Koran, 
on  Mutanabbi,  and  on  other  poets  ;  and  the  Muntahd  al- 
su'dl  wdl-amal  (The  End  of  Asking  and  of  Hope),  a 
manual  of  Malikite  law. 

In  Northern  Africa,  Abu  'Ali  al- Hasan  Ibn  Rashiq 
was  born  in  980,  or,  according  to  some  authorities,  in 
1000.  He  was  the  son  of  a  Greek  slave,  or,  as  others  tell 
us,  of  a  goldsmith.  In  1015  he  journeyed  to  Qairawan, 
and  there  addressed  praises  to  Al-Muizz  ibn  Badis, 
which  gained  him  that  prince's  favour.  When  Qairawan 
was  destroyed  by  the  Arab  tribes  of  Egypt,  sent  for  that 
purpose  in  105 1  by  the  Fatimid  Caliph,  the  poet  fled  to 
Sicily,  and  settled  at  Mazar,  where  he  died  in  1064  or 
1070.  His  Kitdb  al-Umda  (The  Stay),  dealing  with  the 
beauties  and  the  rules  of  poetry,  and  preceded  by  an 
exceedingly  detailed  introduction  to  the  poetic  art  in 
general,  earned  the  praise  of  Ibn  Khaldun,  author  of 
the  Prolegomena,  who  regards  him  as  the  best  of  all 
the  critics  of  modern  Arabic  poetry.  His  Unm-Adhaj 
(Specimen)  deals  with  the  poets  of  the  town  of 
Qairawan. 


THE  'ABBASIDS 


173 


In  Spain,  Abu'l-Khattab  'Umar  Ibn  Dihya  al-Kalbi, 
born  at  Valencia  in  1149,  was  surnamed  Dh-A' l-nasabain 
(With  two  Genealogies),  because  he  was  descended,  on 
his  father's  side,  from  Dihya  al-Kalbi — that  curious  indi- 
vidual of  Mahomet's  time,  who  was  said  by  the  Prophet 
to  be  like  the  Archangel  Gabriel,  and  whom  he  sent  as 
his  ambassador  to  Heraclius — and,  on  his  mother's,  from 
Husain,  the  son  of  'All.  He  travelled  all  over  Spain  in 
pursuit  of  his  studies,  was  twice  appointed  qddi  of 
Denia,  and  dismissed  on  account  of  his  scandalous 
behaviour.  He  took  up  his  traveller's  staff  again, 
wandered  to  Morocco,  and  to  Bijiya,  where  he  taught 
the  knowledge  of  the  traditions  (1198).  He  sojourned 
some  time  in  Egypt  before  starting  on  pilgrimage  to 
Mecca,  and,  on  his  return  from  the  Holy  City,  made  a 
long  detour,  lasting  over  several  years,  by  Syria,  Chaldea, 
and  Persia.  On  his  return,  Al-Malik  al- Aziz  chose  him 
to  be  tutor  to  his  son  Al-Malik  al-Kamil,  and  when  that 
prince  succeeded  to  power  he  built  his  old  master  the 
Madrasa  Kamiliyya,  where  he  taught  the  traditions.  He 
eventually  fell  into  disgrace,  was  dismissed,  and  died  on 
30th  October  1235. 

About  the  same  period  we  find  Diya  al-din  Muhammad 
al-Khazraji,  who  died  in  1228.  He  was  the  author  of 
a  didactic  poem  on  versification,  called  al-Rdmiza  al- 
Skdfiya,  which  was  edited  at  Rome,  by  Guadagnoli,  in 
1642,  and  has  been  the  subject  of  many  commentaries. 


CHAPTER   VII 

THE  'ABBASIDS— Co«/;Wf^ 

History  —  Fables  —  Anecdotes 

We  have  already  seen  how  history  began  with  the 
Maghdsi — works  devoted  to  the  story  of  Mahomet's 
wars.  The  constantly  increasing  development  of  the 
study  of  the  tradition  {haditJi),  one  of  the  fundamental 
bases  of  Moslem  law,  made  it  necessary  to  collect 
every  possible  information  as  to  the  life  of  the  law- 
giver. Further,  students  of  ancient  Arab  poetry  were 
led  to  inquire  into  the  old  historic  deeds,  and  the  "  days  " 
or  battles  to  which  the  poets  referred,  and  chroniclers 
registered  the  events  which  took  place  after  the  establish- 
ment of  Islam,  adding  legendary  information,  obtained 
at  second-hand,  as  to  what  they  believed  to  be  the 
ancient  history  of  Persia  and  of  the  Jewish  nation.  The 
translations  into  Arabic  of  the  Sasanian  Books  of  th& 
Kings,  produced  at  an  early  date  by  Persians  who  wrote 
and  spoke  Arabic,  certainly  gave  an  impetus  to  historical 
study.  We  may  be  sure  that  the  'Abbasid  Caliphs, 
whose  capital  was  close  to  the  ruins  of  Seleucia  and  of 
Ctesiphon  (not  to  mention  the  more  ancient  Babylonian 
towns,  the  memory  of  which  was  totally  lost),  were  re- 
solved, when  they  left  the  world  the  story  of  the  events 
that  took  place  under  their  rule,  not  to  allow  themselves 


THE  'ABBASIDS  175 

to  be  eclipsed  by  the  monarchs  whom  the  Arabs  had 
overthrown. 

Even  at  the  close  of  the  Omeyyad  dynasty  we  find  a 
writer  of  maghazt,  Musi  ibn  'Uqba  ibn  Abi'l-Ayyash, 
whose  works  earned  him  the  singularly  honourable  title 
of  imAm  al-maghasi,  "chief,  or  director,  of  historical 
studies  as  to  the  wars  of  the  Prophet."  His  work  was 
put  together  in  1387  by  Ibn  Qidi  Shuhba.  The  author 
himself,  a  freedman  belonging  to  the  Zubair  family,  at 
Medina,  died  in  758.  But  the  great  authority  of  those 
days,  constantly  quoted  in  later  works,  is  Abu  'Abdallah 
Muhammad  Ibn  Ishaq,  the  original  of  whose  work  is 
now  lost ;  but  a  great  part  of  it  has  been  preserved 
to  us  in  a  compilation  by  Ibn  Hisham  ('Abdalmalik 
al-Himyari  al-Basri,  died  at  Old  Cairo  in  834),  known 
under  the  name  of  Sirat  al-RaszIl  (Biography  of  the 
Prophet),  published  by  Wiistenfeld,  and  translated  into 
German  by  G.  Weil.  The  ill-will  Ibn  Ishaq  brought  on 
himself  at  Medina  obliged  him  to  leave  that  town  for 
Alexandria,  and  thence  he  went  to  Kufa  and  Rai.  At 
Hira  he  met  the  Caliph  Al-Mansur,  who  invited  him 
to  settle  at  Bagdad,  a  city  he  had  then  just  founded,  and 
there  to  make  all  the  traditions  of  the  Prophet  he  had 
collected  into  one  volume.     He  died  at  Bagdad  in  768. 

Another  and  most  famous  historian  was  Al-Waqid!, 
but  he  chiefly  owes  his  renown  to  impostors,  who — very 
probably  at  the  time  of  the  Crusades,  and  to  stir  the 
warlike  spirit  of  the  Moslems  by  reminding  them  of  the 
brilliant  period  of  their  conquests — sent  forth  historical 
romances  on  the  wars  in  Syria,  Mesopotamia,  Egypt, 
and  Africa,  under  his  venerated  name.  Nevertheless,  his 
great  historical  work  {Kitdb  al-Maghdzi)  has  come  down 
to  us,  and  has  been  published  at  Calcutta  by  Alfred  von 


176  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Kremer.  Abu  'Abdallah  Muhammad  ibn  'Umar  al- 
Waqidi,  who  was  born  at  Medina  in  747,  began  hfe 
as  a  corn  merchant.  Having  ruined  himself  by  extra- 
vagance, he  was  obliged  to  leave  the  city.  At  Bagdad, 
the  vizier,  Yahya  ibn  Khalid  the  Barmakide,  furnished 
him  with  the  wherewithal  to  arrange  his  affairs,  and 
appointed  him  qddt  over  the  western  side  of  the  city ; 
Caliph  Ma'mun  later  sent  him  in  the  same  capacity  to 
Rusafa,  and  there  he  died  on  28th  April  823. 

A  story  reported  by  Mas'udt  in  the  Golden  Meadows, 
translated  by  Barbier  de  Meynard,  casts  a  vivid  light 
on  the  amicable  relations  between  the  historian  and  his 
friends.  The  incident  is  related  by  Waqidi  himself.  "  I 
had  two  friends,  one  of  whom  belonged  to  the  Hashim 
family,  and  we  were,  so  to  speak,  but  one  soul.  The 
festival  at  the  end  of  the  great  Fast  drew  near,  and  I 
was  in  a  state  of  great  poverty,  when  my  wife  said  to 
me  :  'If  it  only  affected  ourselves,  we  could  very  well 
bear  poverty  and  privation.  But  the  poor  children  !  I 
pity  them,  and  it  makes  my  heart  bleed  !  They  will  see 
the  neighbours'  children  dressed  and  adorned  for  the 
festival,  and  they  will  still  have  to  wear  their  wretched 
rags.  Couldst  thou  not,  by  some  ineans  or  other, 
find  enough  money  to  get  them  clothes  ? '  I  wrote  to 
my  friend  the  Hashimite,  and  begged  him  to  help  me 
in  this  circumstance.  He  at  once  sent  me  a  sealed 
purse,  telling  me  it  contained  a  thousand  dirhems.  I 
had  hardly  time  to  get  my  breath  before  I  received  a 
letter  from  my  other  friend  telling  me  of  the  same 
trouble  as  that  I  had  just  revealed  to  my  Hashimite 
comrade.  I  sent  him  the  purse  just  as  it  had  come  to 
me,  and  went  to  the  Mosque,  where  I  spent  the  night, 
for  I  did  not  dare  to  go  back  to  my  wife.      Nevertheless, 


THE  "ABBASIDS  177 

when  I  did  go  home,  she  approved  what  I  had  done, 
and  did  not  utter  one  word  of  reproach  to  me.  Thus 
the  matter  stood  when  my  Hishimite  friend  came  to 
me  carrying  the  purse,  still  just  as  he  had  sent  it  to  me, 
and  he  said  :  'Tell  me  honestly  what  you  did  with  that 
which  I  sent  you  ?'  I  told  him  everything,  just  as  it  had 
happened,  and  he  continued  as  follows  :  '  At  the  moment 
when  your  message  reached  me,  I  had  nothing  in  the 
world  except  the  sum  I  sent  you  ;  I  therefore  wrote  to 
our  mutual  friend  to  beg  him  to  come  to  my  aid,  and 
he  sent  me  my  own  purse,  still  sealed  with  my  own 
seal.'  We  then  divided  the  money  into  three  parts,  and 
each  took  one,  having  previously  set  apart  a  hundred 
dirhems  for  my  wife." 

His  secretary,  Ibn  Sa'd  (Abu  'Abdallah  Muhammad, 
died  845),  collected  his  works,  of  which  he  possessed  one 
of  the  four  copies  existing  when  their  author  died,  and 
himself  produced  a  collection  of  biographies  {tabaqaf) 
of  the  Prophet,  his  companions,  and  his  successors. 
His  life  of  Mahomet  is  occasionally  reckoned  as  a 
separate  volume. 

While  these  authors  were  writing  history  in  general, 
Al-Azraqt  was  compiling  a  history  of  Mecca,  founded 
on  the  fabulous  traditions  of  the  pre-Islamic  period,  and 
on  the  notes  collected  by  his  own  grandfather,  Abu'l- 
Walid  al-Azraq,  a  descendant  of  the  Ghassanid  dynasty, 
who  died  in  834.  Al-Azraqi  himself  died  soon  after 
858.  A  successor  of  his,  Al-Fakihi  (Abu  'Abdallah), 
also  wrote  a  history  of  Mecca,  in  885  ;  the  two  have 
been  published  by  Wiistenfeld.  Ibn  Zabala's  history 
of  Medina,  'Umar  ibn  Shabba's  histories  of  Bassora 
and  Kufa,  Aslam  ibn  Sahl's  history  of  Wasit ;  that  of 
Mosul,   by   Abu    Zakariya   al-Azdi,   qddi  of  that   town ; 


178  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

of  Raqqa,  by  Al-Qushain  ;  and  of  Harran,  by  Abu 
Aruba  al-Harrani,  who  had  travelled  in  Egypt,  and 
taught  the  traditions  at  Bagdad,  have  all  disappeared. 
Gone,  too,  are  those  of  various  Persian  towns,  such  as 
the  history  of  Merv,  by  Ahmad  ibn  Sayyar  ;  of  Ispahan, 
by  Ibn  Mandah  ;  of  Bukhara,  by  Muhammad  al-Bukhari ; 
of  Astarabad  and  Samarqand,  by 'Abdal-Rahman  al-Idrisi. 
But  we  still  possess,  in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale, 
the  Riydd  al-Nuf{ts  (Gardens  of  Souls),  a  history  of 
the  learned  lawyers  and  pious  men  of  Tunis,  by  Abu 
Bakr  al-Maliki.  In  the  British  Museum  there  is  the 
sixth  volume  of  the  great  history  of  Bagdad,  written 
by  Abu'1-Fadl  Ahmad  ibn  Abi  Tahir  Taifur,  who  was 
of  Iranian  blood,  and  belonged  to  a  family  formerly 
holding  princely  rank  in  Khurasan.  He  was  born  at 
Bagdad  in  819  and  died  there  in  893. 

Ibn  al-Kalbi  (Abii'l  Mundhir  Hisham)  was  the  son 
of  a  warrior,  who,  after  having  fought  at  the  battle  of 
Dair  al-Jamajim,  in  the  ranks  of  the  troops  brought 
back  from  Arachosia  by  the  rebel  chief  Ibn  al-AsKath, 
turned  his  mind  to  Koranic  exegesis,  and  collected 
most  careful  notes  on  the  history  and  genealogies  of 
the  ancient  Arabs.  He  died  in  763.  His  son  carried 
on  his  researches,  and  wrote  a  great  book  on  genealogy 
(fragments  of  which,  in  manuscript,  are  now  preserved 
in  the  libraries  of  Paris  and  the  Escurial),  and  also  a 
curious  and  valuable  treatise  on  the  idols  of  the  ancient 
Arabs,  numerous  extracts  from  which  are  to  be  found 
in  Yaqut's  Geographical  Dictionary.  This  latter  work, 
the  subject  of  which  was  not  calculated  to  please  the 
Moslems,  who  hated  all  memories  of  the  antique  pagan 
period  of  the  peninsula,  as  recalling  an  age  of  ignorance, 
elicited  hot  criticism  on  the  part  of  contradictors,  who 


THE  'ABBASIDS  179 

accused  its  author  of  falsification.  Yaqfit,  who  owed 
him  a  great  deal  of  his  information,  defended  him 
against  this  accusation,  and  modern  critics  have  con- 
firmed this  view.  Ibn  al-Kalbt,  who  was  born  at  Kufa, 
lived  for  some  time  at  Bagdad,  and  died  in  819.  He 
also  wrote  a  book  on  the  genealogies  of  Arab  horses 
in  pagan  times,  and  in  those  of  Islam.  His  memory 
was  very  unequal.  He  himself  relates  that  on  one 
occasion,  having  been  reproached  by  his  uncle,  he 
learnt  the  whole  Koran  by  heart  in  three  days  ;  while, 
on  the  other  hand,  looking  at  himself  in  the  glass  one  day, 
he  took  hold  of  his  beard,  meaning  to  clip  all  the  hairs 
below  his  hand,  but,  instantly  forgetting  this  intention, 
he  cut  his  beard  off  above  his  hand,  and  consequently 
made  it  much  too  short. 

A  historian  of  great  merit,  whose  work,  unfortunately, 
has  disappeared,  after  having  been  utilised  by  Baladhuri 
and  Tabari,  was  Al-Mada'in1  (Abu'l-Hasan  "Ali),  who 
was  born  in  753,  and  died  at  some  unascertained  date 
between  830  and  845.  The  Fihrist  enumerates  one  hun- 
dred and  eleven  titles  of  books  written  by  him  on  the 
history  of  the  Prophet,  of  the  tribe  of  Quraish  and  of 
the  Caliphs.  His  Kitdb  al-MaghAsi  and  his  Tdrikh  al- 
Khulafa  are  frequently  quoted.  He  wrote  several  works 
on  famous  women,  and  made  collections  of  anecdotes. 
His  name  indicates  that  his  origin  was  connected  with 
Ctesiphon  (Mada'in). 

Beside  this  ancestor  of  the  Arab  historians  we  must 
place  Al-Zubair  Ibn  Bakkar  (Abu  Abdallah),  of  the 
family  of  'Abdallah  ibn  Zubair,  who  lived  at  Medina. 
Even  in  his  youth  his  knowledge  of  the  traditions,  of 
history,  and  genealogy,  had  made  him  a  name.  Having 
quarrelled   with    the    descendants   of  'Ali,   he   went    to 


i8o  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Bagdad,  but  not  meeting  with  the  encouragement  he  had 
looked  for  at  the  court  of  the  'Abbasids,  where,  indeed, 
he  was  suspected  of  serving  the  'Alid  party,  he  returned 
to  his  own  country,  and  was  appointed  qddi  of  Mecca,  a 
position  which  gave  him  several  opportunities  of  revisit- 
ing Bagdad.  He  was  at  Mecca,  when,  at  the  age  of 
eighty-four,  he  fell  off  the  roof  of  his  own  house,  breaking 
his  collar  bone  and  one  of  his  ribs.  Of  this  accident  he 
died,  within  two  days,  on  20th  October  870.  He  was 
the  author  of  a  genealogy  of  the  tribe  of  Quraish,  the 
manuscript  of  which  is  now  in  the  Bodleian  Library,  and 
of  a  collection  of  historical  tales  to  which  he  gave  the 
name  of  Muwaffaqiyydt,  because  they  were  intended  for 
the  instruction  and  entertainment  of  Al-Muwaifaq,  son 
of  Caliph  Mutawakkil.  The  three  last  of  the  eighteen 
parts  into  which  this  work  was  divided  are  preserved  at 
Gottingen. 

Al-Baladhur1  (Ahmad  ibn  Yahya)  was  of  Persian 
birth  :  he  frequented  the  courts  of  the  Caliphs  Muta- 
wakkil and  Musta'in  :  Al-Mu  tazz  entrusted  him  with 
the  education  of  his  son  "Abdallah,  the  poet  who  was 
Caliph  for  one  day.  He  died  in  892,  after  having  lost 
his  reason  in  consequence  of  taking  too  strong  a  dose  of 
cashew  nut  or  marsh  nut  {balddhur),  that  curious  Indian 
fruit  which  is  supposed  to  develop  the  memory — hence 
his  surname.  It  became  necessary  to  shut  him  up  in  a 
madhouse,  and  there  he  ended  his  days.  His  Kitdb 
FutAk  al-Bulddn  (History  of  the  Moslem  Conquest), 
published  by  De  Goeje,  is  an  exceedingly  remarkable 
contribution  to  the  history  of  the  victorious  expeditions 
of  the  Moslems  in  the  first  years  of  the  Hegira.  The 
care  with  which  he  indicates  the  sources  whence  he 
has  procured  his  verbal   information   makes    it   a   most 


THE  'ABBASIDS  i8i 

valuable  historical  document.  It  is,  unfortunately,  only 
a  summary  of  a  much  larger  work,  which  he  never 
completed.  Under  the  title  of  Ansdb  al-Ashrdf 
(Genealogy  of  the  Noble),  he  wrote  another  historical 
work,  two  volumes  of  which  have  been  preserved.  The 
first  forms  part  of  the  Schefer  Collection,  which  has 
lately  become  the  property  of  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale  ; 
the  second  has  been  autographed  by  Ahlwardt  at 
Greifswald.  Finally,  he  translated  other  books  from  the 
Persian  into  Arabic,  the  only  one  of  which  now  known 
to  us  is  the  translation  into  Arabic  verse  of  the  ^Ahd 
A rdaskir  (E,poch  of  Artaxerxes),  probably  devoted  to  the 
legends  which  surround  the  foundation  of  the  empire  of 
the  Sasanians  by  Ardashir  Babakan — but  even  this  has 
entirely  disappeared ;  all  we  know  of  it  is  that  it  is  men- 
tioned in  the  Fihrist. 

The  great  historian  of  this  epoch,  TABARt  (Muhammad 
ibn  Jarir)  (838-923),  the  publication  of  whose  master- 
piece has  just  been  completed  at  Leyden,  was  also  of 
Persian  blood.  He  was  born  at  Amul  in  Tabaristan 
(Mizandaran),  to  the  south  of  the  Caspian  Sea.  He 
travelled  in  Egypt,  Syria,  and 'Iraq,  and  then  established 
himself  as  a  teacher  of  the  traditions  and  of  juris- 
prudence at  Bagdad.  In  this  latter  department  he 
originally  followed  the  rules  of  the  Shafi'ite  rite,  which 
he  had  learnt  during  his  stay  in  Egypt.  He  afterwards 
endeavoured  to  create  a  school  of  his  own,  but  he  failed  : 
indeed,  he  attracted  the  enmity  of  the  fierce  Hanbalites 
of  Bagdad.  To  his  inquiries  into  these  two  subjects  we 
owe  his  Tahdhtb  al-Athdr,  now  at  Constantinople  (in  the 
library  belonging  to  Kyiiprulu  Muhammad-Pacha),  and 
his  great  Tafsir,  or  Commentary  on  the  Koran,  which  was 
later  translated  into  Persian  and  Turkish.     But  his  most 


1 82  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

interesting  work,  as  far  as  we  are  concerned— because  it 
is  the  most  ancient  written  record  of  Arab  history  we 
possess — is  his  universal  history  {Akhbdr  al-rusul  wdl- 
mulilk,  History  of  the  Prophets  and  Kings),  the  first 
complete  history  in  the  Arabic  tongue.  Great  difficulties 
are  connected  with  the  verification  of  the  full  text  of 
this  work,  which  is  scattered  about,  a  volume  here  and 
another  there,  amongst  many  libraries,  both  European 
and  Oriental.  Tabari  died  at  Bagdad,  on  i6th  February 
923.  He  possessed  remarkable  powers  of  work,  and  for 
forty  years  he  wrote  forty  sheets  a  day. 

AL-St^Li  (Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  ibn  Yahya)  was  de- 
scended from  a  Turkish  prince  of  Jurjan,  named  Sul- 
Takin,  who  was  a  convert  from  Zoroastrianism  to  Islam. 
He  was  much  valued  at  the  courts  of  the  Caliphs  Muktafi 
and  Muqtadir,  on  account  of  his  skill  in  playing  chess, 
which  passed  into  a  proverb  :  a  man  was  said  to  play  chess 
like  Al-Suli.  But  his  views  as  to  the  posterity  of  'Ali 
rendered  his  position  so  critical  that  he  was  obliged  to 
flee  from  Bagdad  and  hide  himself  at  Bassora,  where  he 
died,  in  946.  He  had  studied  the  Arab  poets,  and  wrote 
a  history  of  them,  and  special  treatises  on  several  of 
their  number,  such  as  Abu  Tammam,  Abu  Nuwas,  and 
Al-Buhturi. '  He  also  wrote  an  historical  work  on  the 
'Abbasids,  and  on  those  members  of  the  dynasty  who 
cultivated  the  poetic  art.  This  is  now  preserved  at 
Cairo. 

In  the  person  of  the  witty  and  attractive  story-teller 
MAS'tJDt  (Abu'l-Hasan  'Ali)  we  hail  the  opening  of  a 
new  branch  of  Arab  literature,  that  of  the  historical 
anecdote.  This  writer,  the  scion  of  an  Arab  family 
tracing  its  descent  from  Masud,  one  of  the  comrades 
of   the    Prophet,   was   born   at    Bagdad,  took  journeys 


THE  -ABBASIDS  183 

which  brought  him  to  Persia,  where  he  visited  Istakhr 
(Persepolis)  in  915,  and  to  India.  He  traversed  Mul- 
tan  and  Mansura,  and  then  travelled  by  the  Deccan 
peninsula  to  Ceylon  :  here  he  took  ship,  sailed  over  the 
China  Sea  and  the  Red  Sea,  touched  at  Madagascar,  and 
returned  to  Arabia  by  'Uman.  The  Caspian  Sea,  Syria, 
and  Palestine  in  turn  attracted  his  curious  attention.  In 
926  he  was  at  Tiberias,  in  943  we  find  him  at  Antioch 
and  in  Cilicia,  and  two  years  later  he  was  at  Damascus. 
During  the  latter  years  of  his  life  he  lived  partly  in 
Egypt  and  partly  in  Syria.  In  947  and  in  955  he 
was  at  Fustat  (Old  Cairo),  where  he  probably  died, 
in  956  or  957.  A  man  of  curious  and  inquiring 
mind,  Mas'udi  neglected  no  accessible  source  of  in- 
formation. He  extended  his  researches  beyond  purely 
Moslem  studies,  examined  the  history  of  the  Persians, 
Hindus,  and  Romans,  and  the  traditions  of  Jews, 
Christians,  and  pagans.  Touching  the  period  of  the 
Caliphs,  the  numberless  anecdotes  in  his  Golden 
Meadows  (Muruj  al-Dhahab)  furnish  us  with  the 
fullest  and  most  entertaining  fund  of  information  as  to 
the  Eastern  civilisation  of  that  period.  His  great  his- 
torical work,  the  Akhbdr  al-zaindn,  of  which  the  Golden 
Meadows  is  but  an  extract,  was  in  thirty  volumes.  Of 
these  the  first  only  now  exists,  at  Vienna.  The  Kitdb 
al-Ausat  (Middle-sized  Book)  was  an  abridgment  of  the 
greater  work.  The  Tanbih  wa  l-iskrdf  ('i>ioiice.  and  Re- 
view) is  a  sort  of  philosophical  epitome  of  Mas'udi's 
whole  work.  The  text  of  this  has  been  published  by 
De  Goeje,  and  translated  into  French  by  Baron  Carra 
de  Vaux. 

Hamza  ibn  Hasan  al-Isfahan1  was  of  Persian  blood, 
and  in  his  historical  works  he  has  dealt  with  the  legen- 


i84  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

dary  history  of  his  country  according  to  verbal  infor- 
mation given  him  by  the  fire  priests,  and  that  obtained 
from  Iranian  sources.  He  belonged  to  the  sect  of  the 
Shuubiyya,  of  which  he  was  a  fervent  partisan,  and 
endeavoured,  in  his  writings,  to  re-establish  the  correct 
spelling  of  the  Iranian  names  which  had  been  corrupted 
in  the  Arabic.  He  probably  lived  at  Bagdad  in  the  early 
part  of  the  tenth  century  of  our  era.  His  Annals,  with 
a  Latin  translation,  have  been  published  by  Gottwaldt 
at  St.  Petersburg.  The  Munich  Library  contains  a  Book 
of  Proverbs  written  by  him,  and  in  that  of  Cairo  there  is 
a  Parallel  between  the  Arab  and  the  Persian. 


The  Book  of  Songs 

AbCt'l-Faraj  al-Isfahan1  ('Ali  ibn  al-Husain)  (897- 
967)  was  also  born  at  Ispahan,  but  this  was  a  mere  chance, 
for  by  blood  he  was  of  pure  Arab  race  and  descended 
from  the  Omeyyads.  Hz  studied  at  Bagdad,  and  led 
the  life  of  many  literary  men  of  that  period,  travelling 
from  Aleppo,  where  Saif  al-daula  was  then  in  power,  to 
Persia,  to  wait  on  the  ministers  in  the  service  of  the 
Buwaihid  princes,  Ismail  Ibn  'Abbad  and  Al-Muhallabi. 
He  gradually  lost  his  mental  faculties,  and  died  on  21st 
November  967.  His  connection  with  the  Omeyyads  by 
a  common  ancestry  led  to  his  being  in  constant  relations 
with  their  descendants  settled  in  Spain,  from  whom  he 
received  gifts  in  acknowledgment  of  the  books  he  dedi- 
cated to  them.  His  Kitdb  al-Aghdni  (Book  of  Songs)  has 
been  published  at  Bulaq,  and  supplemented  by  a  twenty- 
first  volume  published  at  Leyden  by  Briinnow.  These 
songs  are  simply  the  history  of  all  the  Arab  poetry  that 
has  been  set  to  music.     And  as  this  has  been  done  to  an 


THE  'ABBASIDS  185 

enormous  number  of  lines  written  both  by  pre-Islamic 
poets  and  during  the  first  four  centuries  after  the  Hegira, 
the  author  has  had  the  opportunity  of  collecting  a  mass 
of  biographical  details  as  to  their  writers.  Under  the 
pretext  of  giving  us  the  songs,  this  admirable  book  sup- 
plies us  with  anecdotes  and  information  touching  desert 
and  city  life,  and  that  led  in  private  by  sovereigns  and 
Caliphs,  such  as  are  nowhere  else  to  be  discovered.  It 
offers  a  rich  mine  to  the  student  of  Arab  society  at  its  most 
brilliant  period.  The  Berlin  Library  possesses  another 
work  by  the  same  author,  the  Kitdb  al-diydrdt  (Book  of 
the  Monasteries),  giving  the  history  of  many  convents 
and  places  of  pilgrimage  on  the  banks  of  the  Tigris  and 
Euphrates,  or  in  Egypt.  It  really  is  an  anthology  of 
the  poetry  in  which  these  convents  have  been  celebrated. 
We  must  not  forget  that,  when  Moslems  went  to  Chris- 
tian cloisters,  it  was  not  to  seek  devotional  impulses,  but 
simply  for  the  sake  of  an  opportunity  of  drinking  wine, 
the  use  of  which  was  forbidden  in  the  Mahometan 
towns.  The  poets,  out  of  gratitude,  sang  the  praises  of 
the  blessed  spots  where  they  had  enjoyed  the  delights  of 
intoxication. 

The  court  of  Saif  al-daula  was  also  graced  by  the 
presence  of  two  brothers,  who  had  been  surnamed 
the  two  Khahdis,  Abii  'Uthman  Sa'id  and  Abu  Bakr 
Muhammad,  both  of  them  good  poets.  The  ruler  of 
Aleppo  rewarded  them  generously  for  their  praises. 
They  wrote  a  history  of  Mosul,  biographies  of  Abou 
Tammam  and  Ibn  al-Rumi,  and  an  anthology  of  modern 
poets,  entitled  Hamdsa — this  last  work  is  now  in  the 
Cairo  Library. 


13- 


i86  ARABIC    LITERATURE 


The  Fihrist 


A  work  of  this  period,  which,  in  its  way,  is  unique,  is 
the  bibliographical  treatise  known  as  the  Fihrist  (Index). 
Little,  unfortunately,  is  known  of  its  author,  Abu'l- 
Faraj  Muhammad  ibn  Ishaq  ibn  Abi  Yaqub  al-Nadim, 
surnamed  the  Bookseller  (al-Warraq)  of  Bagdad.  It 
is  a  catalogue  of  books,  most  of  which  have  now 
disappeared,  either  because  they  did  not  survive  the 
great  catastrophes  which  overtook  the  Bagdad  Libraries 
(destroyed  by  the  Mongols  in  the  thirteenth  and  by 
Tamerlane  in  the  fifteenth  century) — disasters  which 
may  compare,  as  regards  the  Arab  Middle  Ages,  with  the 
various  destructions  of  the  Alexandrian  Library  in  ancient 
times — or  because,  owing  to  their  being  epitomised  in 
more  recent  and  fashionable  works,  they  were  no  longer 
copied,  and  so  died  out  by  a  process  of  decay.  The 
Fihrist  was  written  in  988,  and  its  author  probably  died 
eight  years  later,  in  996.  The  opinion  expressed  by 
Sprenger,  that  this  book  was  the  catalogue  of  some 
library,  has  been  quite  put  aside,  for  the  historical  reflec- 
tions it  contains  are  evideiitly  a  part  of  the  fundamental 
plan  of  the  work. 

Provincial  Histories 

The  History  of  the  Conquest  of  Egypt,  Northern  Af-ica, 
and  Spain  was  written  by  Ibn  'Abdal-Hakam  (Abu'l- 
Qasim'AbdaJ-Rahman),  the  son  of  the  Malikite  qddi  in 
Egypt,  who  died  at  Old  Cairo  in  871.  This  book,  which 
is  in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  has  been  partially 
utilised  by  MacGuckin  de  Slane  in  the  appendix  to  his 
translation    of    Ibn    Khaldun's    History   of  tJie   Berbers: 


THE   'ABBASIDS  187 

fragments  of  it  have  been  published  by  J.  Karle  and 
John  Harris  Jones. 

Sa'Id  ibn  al-BatrIq  was  the  Arabic  name  of  Euty- 
chius  (876-939),  a  Christian  physician,  born  at  Old 
Cairo,  who  was  a  remarkable  historical  student,  appointed 
Melkite  patriarch  at  Alexandria  in  933.  At  a  time  when 
men  were  inquiring  which  was  the  oldest  language,  the 
Syrian  or  the  Hebrew,  he  declared  that  the  Greek  must 
be  the  most  ancient  of  all,  because  of  its  richness  and 
volume.  His  universal  history,  called  Nazin  al-Jauhar 
(Pearls  Ranged  in  Order),  has  been  translated  into  Latin 
by  E.  Pococke. 

While  Ahmad  ibn  Yusuf  Ibn  al-Daya  (died  945) 
was  writing  the  anecdotic  history  of  the  founder  of  the 
Tulunid  dynasty,  Ahmad  ibn  Tulun,  and  of  his  son 
Khumarawaih,  Ibn  Yusuf  (Abu  'Umar  Muhammad) 
was  composing,  for  Prince  Kifur,  and  under  the  title 
of  Fadd'il  Misr  (The  Excellent  Qualities  of  Egypt),  an 
epitome  of  the  history  and  geography  of  that  country 
down  to  his  own  period,  which  has  been  translated  into 
Danish  by  J.  Oestrup,  a  history  of  the  Egyptian  qddis, 
and  another  of  the  governors  of  the  same  country  :  these 
are  now  at  the  British  Museum.  At  the  same  time 
Abu'l-Hasan  Muhammad  of  Alexandria  was  writing  a 
journal  of  the  government  of  Muizz  Lidinillah,  which 
may  be  seen  in  the  Escurial  Library,  and  Ibn  Ziilaq 
al-Laithl  (al-Hasan  ibn  Ibrahim),  who  was  born  in  919 
and  died  on  30th  November  998,  was  drawing  up  various 
works  on  Egyptian  history  and  geography,  which  are 
now  in  the  libraries  of  Paris  and  Gotha. 

A  beginning  of  written  Spanish  history  was  made  by 
Abdal-Malik  ibn  Habib  al-Sulamt  al-Mirdasi,  who  was 
born  at  Hisn  Wat,  near  Grenada,  in  796,  and  died  at 


1 88  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Cordova  on  17th  February  853.  In  the  course  of  his 
pilgrimage  to  the  Hijaz,  he  became  imbued  with  the 
judicial  theories  of  Mahk  ibn  Anas,  and  spread  them  in 
his  own  country.  But  none  of  his  many  works  remain 
to  us,  with  the  exception  of  the  beginning  of  a  book  on 
the  division  of  inheritances,  which  is  at  Berlin.  As  to 
the  history  now  in  the  Bodleian  Library,  it  has  been 
ascribed  to  him,  as  Dozy  has  acknowledged,  without 
due  warrant.  After  him  came  Ahmad  ibn  Muhammad 
al-Razi  of  Cordova,  whose  family  came  from  Rai,  in 
Persia.  He  died  in  937.  On  his  history  of  Spain  and 
description  of  that  country  was  based  the  Spanish  work 
known  under  the  name  of  Cronica  del  Mora  Rasis.  The 
most  interesting  figure  of  this  epoch  and  country  is 
that  of  the  historian  and  philologist  Ibn  al-Qutiyya 
(Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  ibn  'Umar  ibn  'Abdal-Aziz), 
that  is  to  say,  the  Son  of  the  Goth  woman;  his 
ancestor,  'Isa,  had  married  a  Spanish  princess,  Sara,  the 
daughter  of  King  Oppas  the  Goth,  when  she  went  to 
Damascus  to  lay  her  complaint  concerning  his  uncle 
Ardabast  before  Caliph  Hisham  ibn  'Abdal- Malik. 
'Isa,  with  his  wife,  was  sent  to  Spain,  and  his  posterity 
continued  to  inhabit  Seville.  Abu  Bakr,  who  was  born 
at  Cordova,  was  recommended  to  the  Caliph  Al-Hakam 
II.  by  Al-Qali,  as  being  the  most  learned  man  in  the 
country.  He  died  at  Cordova  in  977,  leaving  behind  him 
a  Tdrikh  al-Andalus — a  history  of  Spain  from  the  time  of 
the  Moslemconquest  till  the  year  893 — the  manuscript  of 
which  is  now  in  Paris.  Cherbonneau  and  Houdas  have 
translated  and  published  extracts  from  it,  and  Cardonne 
has  made  use  of  it  for  his  history  of  Africa  and  Spain. 
Abu  Bakr  also  left  a  book  on  the  conjugations  of  Arabic 
verbs,  which  has  been  published  by  J.  Guidi. 


THE  'ABBASIDS  189 

Persia  is  remarkable  for  the  production  of  biographies 
in  rhymed  prose,  of  a  laudatory  character,  intended 
to  cast  lustre  on  the  princes  of  the  various  dynasties 
which  successively  flourished  on  Iranian  soil,  as  the 
power  of  the  "AbbS.sid  Caliphs  faded.  Abu  Nasr 
Muhammad  AL-Utbi,  who  was  born  in  Persia,  came  of 
a  family  of  Arab  extraction.  He  held  important  posts 
under  the  government  of  the  empire  founded  by  the 
Turkish  chief  Sabuk-Tekin  and  his  son  Mahmud  the 
Ghaznevid.  He  ended  by  being  director  of  the  horse  post 
at  Ganj-Rustaq.  He  died  in  1036.  His  masterpiece,  the 
Kitdbal-  Yamtni,  so  called  after  the  surname  of  the  Sultan 
Mahmud,  Yamln  al-daula  (Right  Arm  of  the  Empire), 
is  a  history  of  that  ruler's  glorious  reign  down  to  the  year 
1018.  The  author  took  advantage  of  his  presentation  of 
this  work  to  point  out  that  he  was  being  intrigued  against 
by  Abu'l-Hasan  al-Baghawi,  who  had  succeeded  in 
ousting  him  from  his  post.  The  book,  which  is  famous 
for  its  brilliancy  of  style,  has  been  the  subject  of  com- 
mentaries by  various  authors,  and  has  been  translated 
both  into  Persian  and  into  English. 

The  Biographers  of  Saladin 

'Imad  al-d1n  (1125-1201),  surnamed  Al-Katib  al-Isfa- 
hani  (the  Secretary  of  Ispahan),  devoted  his  pen  to  the 
history  of  his  master,  Saladin.  He  was  called  Aluh, 
a  Persian  word  signifying  eagle.  Born  at  Ispahan,  he 
went  to  Bagdad  to  study  at  the  Nizamiyya  University. 
His  protector,  the  minister  'Aun  al-din  Ibn  Hubaira, 
procured  him  the  lucrative  post  of  Inspector  of  the 
Administrative  Departments,  first  at  Bassora  and  then  at 
Wasit.     But  when  his  patron  died,  in  1165,  he  was  dis- 


igo  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

missed  and  cast  into  prison,  and  for  two  years  led  a 
wretched  life,  till  he  made  up  his  mind  to  go  to  Damascus, 
where  he  became  known  to  Najm  al-din  Ayyub  and 
his  son  Saladin.  Sultan  Nur  al-din,  son  of  the  atdbek 
Zangi,  gave  him  a  post  as  copyist,  and  sent  him  on  an 
embassy  to  Caliph  Mustanjid.  This  mission  earned 
him,  when  he  returned  to  Bagdad,  the  professorship  of 
the  newly  built  school,  which  was  called  by  his  name, 
Al-'Imadiyya,  and,  in  the  following  year,  his  appoint- 
ment to  the  presidency  of  the  council.  Nur  al-din's 
death  brought  about  his  downfall.  The  Caliph's  son, 
who  succeeded  him  in  1173,  was  a  child,  and'Imad  al-din's 
enemies  circumvented  him,  and  forced  him  to  relinquish 
his  office  and  leave  the  court.  He  was  on  his  way  to 
Bagdad,  but,  falling  ill  at  Mosul,  there  heard  that 
Saladin  had  seized  Egypt  and  was  marching  on  Syria. 
He  succeeded  in  joining  him  at  Aleppo ;  the  great 
Moslem  leader  received  him  into  his  service,  and  took 
him  with  him  on  his  campaigns.  When  his  patron  died, 
perceiving  that  his  influence  had  departed,  he  retired 
into  private  life  and  devoted  himself  to  literary  work 
until  his  own  death,  on  20th  June  1201.  He  thus  wrote, 
under  the  title  of  Fath  al-Qussi,  his  history  of  Saladin's 
conquest  of  Syria  and  Palestine,  which  has  been  pub- 
lished by  C.  von  Landberg ;  and,  under  that  of  al-Barq 
al-shdmi,  the  history  of  his  own  times,  including  his 
autobiography,  in  seven  volumes.  The  fifth  of  these 
volumes  is  now  in  the  Bodleian  Library.  His  Nusrat 
al-fatra  contains  the  history  of  the  Seljuqid  monarchs 
and  their  ministers ;  it  really  is  an  abridged  translation, 
very  pompous  and  exaggerated  in  style,  of  a  Persian 
work  by  Sharaf  al-din  Anosharwan.  His  Kharidat 
al-Qasr  is  an  anthology  of  the  poets  of  the  sixth  century 


THE    'ABBASIDS  191 

of  the  Hegira,  with  comments  written  in  a  very  pre- 
tentious style,  and  unfortunately  containing  scarcely  any 
historical  information  ;  it  is  a  continuation  of  Tha'alibi's 
Yatimat  al-dahr. 

One  of  'Imad  al-din's  friends,  known  to  us  by  his 
correspondence  either  with  him  or  with  other  persons, 
was  'Abdal-Rahim  ibn  'Ali  of  Ascalon,  surnamed  Al- 
QadI  al-Fadil  (the  excellent  judge)  (1135-1200).  He 
was  the  son  of  the  qddt  of  that  small  town  in  Pales- 
tine. He  held  posts  in  Egypt,  was  attached  to  the 
Secretarial  Office  in  Cairo,  then  secretary  to  the  Judge  of 
Alexandria,  and  afterwards  Secretary  of  State  under  the 
Fatimid  Caliph  Al-Zafir  and  his  successors.  He  con- 
tinued in  this  office  under  Saladin,  who  appointed  him 
Governor  of  Egypt  during  his  own  campaign  in  Syria. 
During  a  visit  to  Damascus  he  made  the  acquaintance 
of  'Imad  al-din,  and  they  always  remained  friends.  He 
died  on  the  26th  of  January  1200.  Saladin's  son  and 
grandson,  'Aziz  and  Mansur,  continued  the  favour  ex- 
tended to  him  by  their  predecessor. 

Let  us  now  continue  the  series  of  Saladin's  biographers. 
Yusuf  ibn  Rafi"  Baha  al-din  of  Aleppo  was  born  at 
Mosul  on  the  6th  of  March  1145.  Attracted  by  the 
renown  of  the  Nizamiyya  University,  he  went  to  Bag- 
dad, and  was  there  employed  as  an  assistant  professor. 
Later  he  returned  to  Mosul,  made  the  pilgrimage  to 
Mecca,  and  then  proceeded  to  Damascus,  where  he  was 
honourably  treated  by  Saladin,  who  appointed  him 
military  judge  and  qddt  of  Jerusalem  in  11 88.  After  his 
patron's  death  he  retired  to  Aleppo,  of  which  city  he  was 
qddt  under  Saladin's  successors,  and  where  he  founded 
two  madrasas,  out  of  his  own  private  fortune.  His  in- 
fluence waned  when  'Aziz  resigned  the  sovereignty  in 


192  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

1231,  and  he  lived  another  three  years  as  a  private 
citizen.  The  Hfe  of  Saladin  of  which  he  is  the  author 
bears  the  title  of  Al-Nawddir  al-Sultdniyya.  It  has  been 
published  by  Albert  Schultens.  Baha  al-din  also  wrote 
a  history  of  Aleppo,  now  preserved  in  manuscript  in  the 
Asiatic  Museum  at  St.  Petersburg,  and  some  works  on 
jurisprudence,  which  are  at  Paris,  in  the  Bodleian,  and 
at  Cairo. 

Shihab  al-din  "Abdal-Rahman  ibn  Ismail,  surnamed 
AbO  Shama,  because  he  had  a  blackish  mole  on  his 
eyebrow,  was  born  at  Damascus  on  loth  January  1203. 
He  studied  in  his  native  town,  and  also  at  Alexandria, 
and  then  returned  to  Damascus,  where  he  taught  in 
several  madrasas.  His  house  was  attacked  by  a  mob, 
which  suspected  him  of  having  committed  a  crime,  and 
he  was  so  roughly  handled  that  he  was  left  for  dead. 
Some  time  afterwards  his  enemies  renewed  their  assaults, 
and  he  was  assassinated  on  13th  June  1268.  He  wrote  a 
history  of  the  two  Sultans  Nur  al-din  and  Saladin,  en- 
titled Kitdb  al- Raudatain  ;  it  has  been  published  and 
partially  translated  by  Goergens  and  Rohricht,  and  has 
also  appeared  in  the  Historiens  des  Croisades,  published  by 
the  Institut  de  France.  He  also  left  poems  and  com- 
mentaries on  the  panegyrics  of  the  Prophet  written  by 
his  master,  Sakhawi,  and  by  Busiri. 

Abu'l-Mahasin  Muhammad  IBN  'Unain  was  born  in 
the  same  city  of  Damascus  on  20th  October  1154.  He 
was  a  precocious  poet,  and,  having  stirred  Saladin's 
enmity  by  his  biting  attacks  on  all  highly  placed 
personages,  he  was  banished.  He  wandered  through 
Persia,  Bukhara,  India,  and  Yemen,  where  he  remained 
for  some  time,  then  passed  on  into  the  Hijaz  and  to 
Egypt,  and  returned  to  Damascus  after  Saladin's  death. 


THE  'ABBASIDS  193 

Saladin's  successor  gave  him  the  title  of  vizier,  and 
trusted  him  with  diplomatic  missions ;  he  died  on  the 
7th  January  1233.  He  was  a  cheery,  good-humoured 
man,  with  a  facile  talent  for  improvisation,  and  would 
answer  rhymed  riddles  with  others,  yet  more  ingenious, 
containing  the  solution  of  the  first  question.  He  never 
took  the  precaution,  during  his  lifetime,  of  collecting  his 
poems  into  a  volume,  and  they  are  now  scattered  and 
lost.  The  Berlin  Library  does  possess  an  elegy  written 
by  him  on  the  death  of  Al-Malik  al-Mu'azzam.  The 
Turkish  biographer  Haji  Khalfa  saw  and  mentions  his 
biography  of  Al-Malik  al-'Aziz,  the  son  of  Saladin. 

In  Egypt,  while  Muhyi  al-din  Abu'1-Fadl  al-Sa'di  (died 
1293)  was  writing  biographies  of  the  Sultans  Baibars 
and  Ashraf,  a  Persian  author  was  preparing  a  life  in 
Arabic  of  Jalal  al-din  Mankobirti,  Sultan  of  Khwarizm, 
the  ill-fated  adversary  of  Jengiz  Khan.  Muhammad 
ibn  Ahmad  AL-Nasaw1  was  born  at  Khorendiz,  near 
Nasi :  he  became  secretary  to  the  Sultan  when  he 
returned  from  his  expedition  to  India  in  1221,  and 
remained  with  him  till  his  death  in  1231.  Ten  years 
later  he  wrote  the  history  of  his  patron,  which  has  been 
translated  into  French  and  published  by  O.  Houdas. 
As  a  historian  he  is  cool  and  impartial,  as  a  writer  he 
is  heavy.  The  reader  generally  feels  that  most  of  his 
Arabic  phrases  have  been  thought  out  in  the  Persian 
tongue. 

The  Autobiography  of  Ibn  Munqidh 

Abij'l-Muzaffar  Usama  Ibn  Munqidh  did  something 
better  than  relate  other  folk's  histories  ;  he  wrote  his 
own,  and  was  the  first  to  introduce  the  novelty  of  an 


194  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

autobiography.  He  was  born  on  25th  June  1095,  at 
Shaizar  in  Syria,  a  small  fortress  in  the  valley  of  the 
Orontes,  the  principal  town  of  the  hereditary  principality 
of  his  family.  He  was  exiled  in  1138  by  his  uncle 'Izz 
al-din,  who  feared  his  courage  and  ambition,  and  went  to 
Damascus.  His  patron  there,  Shihab  al-din  Mahmud, 
became  prejudiced  against  him,  and  he  departed  to 
Egypt,  where  he  gave  his  whole  time  to  sport.  In  1150 
and  1 153  he  was  fighting  the  Crusaders  at  Ascalon  ;  in 
the  following  year  he  returned  to  Damascus,  made  the 
Mecca  pilgrimage,  went  with  Nur  al-din  on  his  cam- 
paign against  the  Franks  in  1162,  and  afterwards  took 
refuge  at  Hisn  Kaifi  in  Mesopotamia,  where  he  de- 
voted himself  to  literary  pursuits.  He  was  recalled  to 
Damascus  by  Saladin,  but  he  did  not  remain  long  in 
favour,  nor  follow  the  Conqueror  of  the  Crusaders  into 
Egypt.  He  died  at  the  Syrian  capital  on  6lh  November 
1 188,  leaving  behind  him  his  autobiography,  which 
has  been  translated  into  French  and  published  by 
H.  Derenbourg,  the  Kitdb  al-badi' ,  on  the  beauties  and 
defects  of  poetic  rhetoric,  and  the  Book  of  the  Stick,  a 
monograph  on  celebrated  sticks.  Extracts  from  this 
work,  and  the  few  fragments  of  the  author's  poetry  he 
has  been  able  to  bring  together,  have  been  published  by 
Monsieur  Derenbourg.  Usama  was  a  man  of  original 
and  observing  mind,  whose  love  of  the  chase  led  him  to 
study  the  habits  of  wild  animals.  His  natural  bravery  is 
reflected  in  the  strong  and  simple  style  in  which  he  tells 
his  adventures  :  his  poetical  compositions  are  marked  by 
literary  skill. 

Jamal  al-din  'Ali  ibn  Zafir,  born  in  1171,  succeeded 
his  father  as  a  teacher  in  the  Kamiliyya  Madrasa  at 
Cairo,   and   subsequently   acted   as   minister   to   Prince 


THE    ABBASIDS  195 

Malik  al-Ashraf.  We  owe  him  a  history  of  past  dynasties 
{al-duwal al-munqati'' a),  down  to  1225,  and  a  collection  of 
bons  mots  and  witty  replies  entitled  Badd'i''  al-biddya.  In 
1226  Abu'1-Fath  al-Bundart  of  Ispahan  made  an  abridg- 
ment of  'Imad  al-din's  history  of  the  Selj{iqids,  under 
the  title  of  Zubdat  al-nusra,  and  translated  the  Persian 
poet  Firdausi's  Book  of  Kings  into  Arabic. 

In  the  West  the  history  of  the  Almohads  engaged  the 
attention  of  Abdal- Wahid  ibn  'Ali  al-Marrakushi,  who 
was  born  at  Morocco  on  loth  July  1185.  Having 
finished  his  studies  at  Fez,  he  settled  in  Spain,  and  re- 
mained there  till  12 16.  He  then  proceeded  to  Egypt, 
and  continued  in  that  country  till  his  death,  except  when 
he  made  a  short  pilgrimage  to  Mecca.  His  Kitdb  al- 
Mu'Jib,  written  in  1224,  has  been  translated  by  E.  Fagnan 
and  published  by  R.  Dozy. 

Jamal  al-din  Muhammad  ibn  Salim  ibn  Wasil,  who 
was  born  in  1207,  lived  at  H^mat  in  Syria,  where  he 
taught  Shafi'ite  law,  philosophy,  mathematics,  and 
astronomy.  In  1261  the  Egyptian  Sultan  Baibars 
summoned  him  to  Cairo,  and  despatched  him  on  a 
mission  to  Manfred,  King  of  Sicily,  son  of  Frederick  II., 
for  whom  he  wrote  a  short  treatise  on  logic.  On  his 
return  he  was  appointed  qddt  of  his  native  town  and 
professor  at  the  madrasa.  Under  the  title  of  Mufar- 
rij  al-KurUb,  he  wrote  a  history  of  the  Ayyubites, 
which  was  continued  up  to  1296  by  'Ali  ibn  'Abdal- 
Rahman,  the  secretary  of  Malik  al-Muzaffar,  Prince  of 
Hamat,  and  predecessor  of  the  royal  geographer  Abu'l- 
Fida. 

Abu'l-Hasan  'Ali  ibn  Yusuf  Ibn  AL-QiFrt  was  thus 
surnamed  after  the  little  town  of  Qift,  the  ancient 
Coptos,  in  Upper  Egypt,  where  he  was  born  in   1172. 


196  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

He  spent  his  whole  life  in  Palestine  and  Syria.  After  3 
few  years  at  Jerusalem,  he  settled,  in  1202,  at  Aleppo. 
Malik  al-Zahir, much  against  the  historian's  will,  appointed 
him  to  govern  that  town  in  1214,  and  as  soon  as  that 
prince  died  he  speedily  rid  himself  of  the  responsibility. 
Yet  he  seems  to  have  made  himself  indispensable, 
for  twice  over  we  see  him  again  accept  its  duties,  and 
he  was  discharging  them  at  the  time  of  his  death,  on 
24th  December  1248.  He  was  a  great  lover  of  books, 
and  had  turned  his  back  on  all  other  earthly  delights, 
so  as  to  indulge  his  favourite  passion.  His  principal 
work,  Ikhbdr  al-  Ulamd  (Information  given  to  the  Learned 
on  the  Subject  of  the  History  of  the  Wise),  is  known  to  us 
through  an  extract  made  from  it  in  1249,  by  Muhammad 
ibn  "All  al-Zauzani,  under  the  title  of  Tdrikh  al-hukamd 
(History  of  the  Wise).  These  works  have  both  been 
studied  by  A.  Miiller  and  J.  Lippert.  He  also  left  a 
history  of  the  grammarians,  an  extract  from  which, 
by  Al-Dhahabt,  is  preserved  at  Leyden,  and  a  post- 
•  humous  work  treating  of  the  poets  bearing  the  name  of 
Muhammad,  which  is  now  in  the  Paris  Library. 

Muwaffaq  al-din  Abu'l-' Abbas  IBN  AbI  UsaiBi'a,  the 
medical  historian,  was  the  son  of  an  oculist  settled  at 
Damascus,  and  was  born  there  in  1203.  To  complete 
his  medical  studies,  which  he  had  begun  in  Syria,  he 
travelled  to  Cairo,  v/here  he  met  the  botanist  and 
physician  Ibn  Baitar,  who  encouraged  him.  He  kept 
up  a  correspondence  with  'Abdallatif,  author  of  the 
Account  of  Egypt.  Saladin  appointed  him  to  manage  the 
hospital  he  founded  at  Cairo  in  1236,  but  notwithstand- 
ing this,  he  responded  in  the  following  year  to  the 
summons  of  the  Amir  'Izz  al-din  Aidamir,  and  departed 
to  Sarkhad  in    the  Hauran,  near    Damascus,  where  he 


THE  'ABBASIDS  197 

died  in  January  1270.  His  history  of  the  physicians  is 
called  '' UyAn  al-anbd;  it  was  published  at  Konigsberg, 
by  A.  Miiller,  in  1884. 

Shams  al-din  Abil'l-' Abbas  Ahmad  Ibn  KhallikAn, 
whose  family  belonged  to  Irbil  (Arbela)  and  was  con- 
nected with  the  Barmakides,  was  born  on  23rd  September 
1211.  He  was  the  son  of  a  teacher  in  the  Muzaffariyya 
Madrasa  at  Irbil,  and  received  his  first  lessons  from 
his  father.  He  then  departed  to  Syria,  was  at  Aleppo 
in  1229,  at  Damascus  in  1234,  and  four  years  later 
at  Alexandria  and  Cairo ;  for  a  time  he  filled  the 
place  of  the  Grand  Qadi  Yflsuf  ibn  al-Hasan  of  Sin- 
jar,  and  was  appointed  in  1264  to  the  important  post 
of  Grand  Qadi  of  Syria,  to  reside  at  Damascus.  This 
position  was  all  the  more  influential  because,  though 
he  himself  was  an  adherent  of  the  Shafi'ite  rite,  the 
three  other  orthodox  rites  were  all  under  his  jurisdiction. 
In  1266,  Sultan  Baibars  appointed  separate  qddis  for 
each  of  these,  the  Hanafite,  Hanbalite,  and  Malikite, 
which  considerably  reduced  Ibn  Khallikan's  importance, 
and  five  years  later,  he  lost  his  post  altogether.  He  then 
went  to  Cairo,  to  fill  the  post  of  professor  in  the  Fakh- 
riyya  Madrasa,  and  took  this  opportunity  of  finishing, 
in  the  space  of  seven  years,  his  great  Biographical 
Dictionary.  In  1280  he  was  reappointed  qadi,  but  two 
years  later  he  was  so  unlucky  as  to  spend  some  weeks  in 
prison,  on  suspicion  of  having  abetted  the  governor  of 
the  town,  who  had  revolted.  Still  he  must  have  con- 
trived to  exculpate  himself,  for  he  was  left  in  possession 
of  his  office  till  May  1281,  when  he  was  finally  dismissed. 
He  supported  himself  by  teaching  at  the  Aminiyya  Mad- 
rasa till  he  died,  on  30th  October  1282.  His  Wafaydt 
al-A  'ydn  (The  Deaths  of  Great  Personages)  is  a  diction- 


198  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

ary  of  the  famous  men  of  Islam,  with  the  exception  of 
the  companions  of  the  Prophet,  the  four  first  Cahphs, 
and,  broadly  speaking,  the  personages  of  the  first  century 
of  the  Hegira.  It  was  begun  at  Cairo  in  1256,  and 
finished  in  the  same  city  in  1274,  after  an  interruption 
caused  by  the  author's  mission  to  Damascus.  The 
autograph  manuscript  is  in  the  British  Museum.  The 
text  has  been  published  by  Wiistenfeld.  Its  pubhcation 
was  also  begun  by  MacGuckin  de  Slane,  but  was  inter- 
rupted about  half  way.  On  the  other  hand,  this  Oriental 
scholar  has  given  us  a  complete  English  translation 
of  the  work.  Ibn  Shakir  al-Kutubi,  in  his  Fawdt  al- 
Wafaydt  (Omissions  from  the  Book  of  Deaths),  has 
written  the  biographies  of  illustrious  persons  not  in- 
cluded in  Ibn  Khallikan's  great  work. 

Abil  .  Bakr  Ahmad  AL  -  Khatib  al  -  Baghdad!  (the 
Preacher  of  Bagdad)  (1002-1071)  was  born  in  a  large 
village  on  the  Tigris,  below  that  city,  called  Darzijan. 
He  was  one  of  those  learned  men  who  wandered  up 
and  down  the  world,  collecting  traditions  concerning  the 
Prophet.  His  long  journeys  found  their  reward  in  the  re- 
nown he  gained  as  one  of  the  chief  masters  of  this  branch 
of  knowledge.  He  returned  to  Bagdad,  was  appointed  a 
preacher,  and  died  there,  leaving  a  history  of  the  learned 
men  of  Bagdad,  in  fourteen  volumes,  a  treatise  on  the  art 
of  seeking  out  the  authenticity  of  the  traditions,  entitled 
al-Kifdya  (The  Adequate  Book),  another  ( Z'ag^'zV  a/-'z7w) 
to  prove  that  traditions  may  be  written  down,  and  a  third 
(al-Mu'tanif)  on  the  correct  manner  of  writing  proper 
names. 

Far  away  at  Merv,  in  Khurasan,  Abu  Sa'd  'Abdal- 
Karim  AL-Sam'an1,  surnamed  Taj  al-Isldm  (the  Mitre  of 
Islamism),  who   was  born   on    nth  February  11 13,  had 


THE  'ABBASIDS  199 

left  his  own  country  to  search  out  traditions,  but  he 
returned,  and  died  there  in  January  1167.  He  wrote  a 
supplement  to  Al-Khattb's  history  of  Bagdad,  in  fifteen 
volumes,  and  the  Kitdb  al-ans&b  (Book  of  Patronymics), 
in  eight  volumes,  which  is  in  the  library  of  Muhammad 
Kyiiprulu  at  Constantinople,  and  which,  according  to  a 
remark  made  by  Sachau,  is  important  as  regards  the 
history  and  proper  names  of  Central  Asia,  on  account 
of  the  biographical  information  it  supplies.  This  great 
work  has  been  abridged  into  three  volumes  by  Tzzal-din 
Ibn  al-Athir,  in  his  Lubdb,  and  this  again  has  been 
abridged  by  the  polygraph  Suyuti,  in  his  Lubb  al-Lubdb, 
published  by  Veth. 

Damascus,  the  great  Syrian  city,  also  had  her  own 
historian,  in  the  person  of  Ibn  'Asakir  ;  and  already  pos- 
sessed an  historical  topography,  written  in  1043,  by 
Abu'l-Hasan  'Ali  al-Raba'i,  and  entitled  riant  ft  fadd'il 
al-Shdm.  Abu'l-Qasim  'All  Ibn  'Asakir  was  born  in 
September  1105.  In  1126  he  went  to  Bagdad,  and 
thence  to  Persia,  to  study  the  traditions  of  the  Prophet. 
On  his  return  he  performed  professional  duties  at  the 
Nuriyya  School,  and  died  in  his  native  town  on  26th 
January  1176.  Saladin  himself  attended  his  funeral. 
His  Ta'rikk,  or  history  of  the  city  of  Damascus,  is  written 
on  the  same  plan  as  the  history  of  Bagdad,  that  is  to 
say,  it  is  a  collection  of  biographies  of  celebrated  men  of 
learning,  who  were  either  born  at  Damascus  or  spent 
some  time  there.  The  work  is  a  large  one,  in  eighty 
volumes,  abridged  in  later  days  by  various  authors. 

Kamal  AL-d1n  Abu'l-Qasim  'Umar  Ibn  al-'Adim  wrote 
the  history  of  Aleppo,  where  he  was  born  in  1191  or  1193. 
He  belonged  to  a  family  of  qddis.  Having  travelled,  for 
the  sake  of  his  studies,  in  Syria,  the  Hijaz  and  Mesopo- 


200  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

tamia,  he  returned  to  his  native  town  and  discharged  the 
duties  of  Departmental  Secretary,  of  qddi,  and  even  of 
minister  to  several  princes,  by  whom  he  was  also  em- 
ployed on  diplomatic  missions.  He  attended  Malik  al- 
Nasir  to  Egypt  when  that  sovereign  was  obliged  to 
abandon  Aleppo  to  the  devastations  of  the  Mongols, 
who  had  taken  possession  of  the  town  on  26th  January 
1260.  Nevertheless,  Hulagu,  grandson  of  Jengiz  Khan, 
chose  him  to  be  Grand  Qadi  of  Syria.  Thus  he 
returned  to  Aleppo,  to  find  his  birthplace  in  ruins,  and 
mourned  it  in  an  elegy,  of  which  a  fragment  has  been 
preserved.  But  he  died,  not  long  after  (21st  April  1262), 
at  Cairo.  His  great  history  is  called  Bughyat  al-Tdlib  : 
it  is  a  history  of  the  learned  men  of  the  city,  in  ten 
volumes.  The  author  himself  abridged  it,  and  arranged 
it  in  chronological  order,  under  the  title  of  Zubdat  al- 
halab  (The  Cream  of  the  Milk).  Extracts  from  it  have 
been  published  by  Freytag,  and  it  has  been  translated 
into  French  by  Blochet.  Kamal  al-din  was  a  skilful 
caligrapher,  and  the  St.  Petersburg  Library  possesses 
some  models  of  penmanship  written  by  his  hand. 

Abli  Muhammad  'Umara  ibn  'Ali,  who  was  born  in 
Yemen  in  1121,  studied  at  Zabid,  went  on  pilgrimage  to 
Mecca  in  11 54,  and  was  sent  by  the  Amir  of  the  sacred 
city,  on  a  mission  to  Egypt,  then  ruled  by  the  Fatimid 
Caliph  Al-Fa'iz.  So  successful  was  this  embassy  that, 
two  years  later,  he  was  entrusted  with  another,  and  never 
returned  to  Yemen.  He  settled  in  Egypt  in  11 57,  and 
hailed  Saladin's  conquest  with  a  panegyric.  At  a  later 
date  he  was  mixed  up  in  a  plot  to  replace  the  son  of 
the  last  of  the  Fatimid  Caliphs  on  the  throne,  with 
the  help  of  the  Frank  King  of  Jerusalem  :  the  plot 
was   betrayed,   and   "Umara   was  executed  on  6th  April 


THE  'ABBASIDS  20I 

1 175.  H.  Derenbourg  has  published  his  Nukat  al-As- 
riyya  (Contemporary  Subtleties),  an  autobiography,  and 
accounts  of  the  Egyptian  viziers,  together  with  a  selec- 
tion of  poetry.  Mr.  H.  Cassels  Kay  has  translated  and 
published  his  history  of  Yemen.  His  ode  to  Saladin 
appears  in  Maqrizi's  Khitat  and  in  Wiistenfeld's  trans- 
lation of  Qalqashandi's  geography  of  Egypt.  Three 
stanzas  written  by  him  in  praise  of  the  pyramids  have 
been  translated  into  German  by  J.  von  Hammer  in  the 
Mines  of  the  East. 

In  Egypt,  likewise,  flourished  the  Amir  Al-Mukhtar 
al-Musabbih1  ('Izz  al-Mulk  Muhammad),  who  came  of  a 
family  belonging  to  Harran,  and  was  born  at  Old  Cairo 
in  976.  He  entered  the  Government  service,  and  in  1007 
was  acting  as  secretary  to  the  Fatimid  Caliph  Hakim. 
He  was  appointed  to  administer  certain  districts  in  Upper 
Egypt,  and  was  afterwards  made  head  of  the  financial 
department  of  the  Paymaster's  Office.  He  died  in  April, 
1029.  One  volume  of  his  great  history  of  Egypt  is  all 
we  now  possess  out  of  the  many  books  he  wrote.  This 
is  in  the  Escurial  Library. 

Saladin's  conquest  of  Egypt  brought  about  the  conver- 
sion to  Islam  of  Abu'l-Makarim  As'ad  Ibn  al-Mammat1, 
who,  with  his  family,  was  employed  under  the  Govern- 
ment. His  change  of  religion  earned  him  the  post  of 
Minister  of  War.  The  enmity  of  the  Vizier  Safi  al-din 
'Abdallah  ibn  Shukr  obliged  him  to  flee  to  Aleppo, 
where  he  took  refuge  with  the  prince  who  then  ruled 
that  town,  Malik-Zahir  :  and  there  he  died,  aged  sixty- 
two,  on  30th  November  1200.  In  his  Qawdnin  al-da- 
wdwtn  he  gives  an  account  of  Egyptian  government 
under  Saladin,  and  in  his  Kiidb  al-FdsMsh,  which 
has  been  studied  by  J.  Casanova,  he  satirises  the 
14 


202  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

faulty  administration  of  the  Vizier  Qaraqush.  On  this 
account  it  is,  perhaps,  that  Qaraqush  has  become  the 
CaHno  of  magistrates  in  the  East  {hukm  qardqushi  is 
a  sentence  for  which  no  ground  exists,  in  which  the 
specified  "whereas  "  leads  up  to  a  perfectly  illogical  con- 
clusion), and  that  legend  has  developed  him  into  the 
type  of  the  Oriental  Punch,  Qaragyuz.  Ibn  al-MammatJ 
was  a  poet  of  some  merit  :  his  panegyric  on  the  Con- 
queror of  the  Crusaders  and  his  poem  called  Kalila  and 
Dimna  are  both  lost. 

AB(r  Zakariya  Yahya  ibn  Abi  Bakr  was  born  at 
Wargla  in  Algeria  ;  he  studied  in  Wad  Rir ,  under  the 
'Ibadite  Sheikh,  Sulaiman  ibn  Ihlaf  al-Mazati,  and  died  in 
1078,  having  written  a  history  of  the  Tbadite  imams  of 
Mzab,  which  has  been  published  by  Masqueray. 

Aba'l-Hasan  'Ali  IBN  Sa'Id  al-Maghrib1,  who  was 
born  in  1208  or  12 14,  at  the  castle  of  Yahsub  (Alcala 
Real),  near  Grenada,  studied  at  Seville,  and  went  with 
his  father  to  Mecca  in  1240.  His  father  died  at  Alexan- 
dria in  1243,  and  Ibn  Sa'id,  after  some  stay  at  Cairo,  pro- 
ceeded to  Bagdad,  where  he  saw  thirty-six  libraries,  and 
copied  extracts  from  books  contained  in  them,  and  thence 
to  Aleppo  and  Damascus.  On  his  return,  he  paid  another 
visit  to  Mecca,  came  back  to  the  West,  and  entered  the 
service  of  the  Amir  Abu  'Abdallah  al-Mustansir,  ruler 
of  Tunis  (1254).  He  was  an  inveterate  traveller,  and 
started  again  for  the  East  in  1267.  Desiring  to  know 
HulagCl,  whose  victories  had  spread  his  fame  far  and 
wide,  he  went  to  that  prince's  court  in  Armenia,  remained 
there  some  time,  and  returned  to  die,  either  at  Tunis  in 
1286,  as  SuyiJti  and  Maqqari  have  it,  or  at  Damascus  in 
1274,  as  Ibn  Taghribirdi  avers.  Fragments  of  his  ]\Iugh- 
rib  have  been  published  by  Vollers.     In  his  Bast  al-ard, 


THE  'ABBASIDS  203 

habitually  used  by  Abfi'l-Fidi,  he  completed  Ptolemy's 
Geography.  The  Bibliotheque  Nationale  now  possesses 
the  copy  used  by  the  Prince  of  Hamat.  His  ^Unwdn  al- 
Murqisdt  wa'l-Miitribdt  has  been  printed  at  Cairo.  It  con- 
tains samples  of  ancient  and  modern  literature,  arranged 
according  to  the  author's  own  peculiar  theory  of  taste. 
An  extract  from  his  Qidh  al-Mu  alia,  which  treats  of  the 
Spanish  poets  of  the  early  part  of  the  seventh  century  of 
the  Hegira,  is  now  in  Paris. 

Towards  the  end  of  this  same  century,  Ibn  al-Idhariof 
Morocco  wrote,  under  the  title  of  al-Baydn  al-Mughrib,  a 
history  of  Africa  and  Spain,  published  at  Leyden  by  R. 
Dozy. 

In  Spain,  Abu'l-Walid  'Abdallah  Ibn  al-Faradi  wrote 
a  history  of  the  learned  Moslems  of  that  country,  which 
has  been  published  by  F.  Codera.  He  was  born  at  Cor- 
dova in  962.  On  his  way  back  from  the  Mecca  pilgrimage, 
he  passed  through  Egypt  and  Qairawan,  where  he  finished 
his  studies,  and  on  his  return  to  his  own  country,  was  ap- 
pointed qddt  at  Valencia  (1009).  He  was  at  Cordova  when 
that  city  was  taken  and  sacked  by  the  Berbers  in  1012, 
and  lost  his  life  in  the  carnage. 

Aba  Nasr  al-Fath  Ibn  Khaqan  came  from  Sakhrat 
al-Walad,  a  village  near  Alcala  Real,  not  far  from 
Grenada  :  as  a  youth  he  was  a  vagabond  and  a  hard 
drinker  :  having  succeeded  in  attracting  the  attention 
of  Tashifin  ibn,  'Ali,  Prince  of  Grenada,  he  obtained 
a  post  as  secretary.  He  went  to  Morocco,  and  was 
strangled  (1134  or  1140)  in  one  of  the  caravanserais 
of  the  capital,  possibly  by  order  of  "Ali  ibn  Yusuf 
ibn  Tashifin,  whose  ire  he  had  provoked  by  address- 
ing verses  to  his  brother  Ibrahim,  to  whom  he  had 
also  dedicated  his  Necklaces  of  Native  Gold  and  Beauties 


204  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

of  the  Great  (Qala'id  al-'Iqyan  wa-mahasin  al-A'yan),  a 
work  in  rhymed  prose,  much  admired  for  the  splendour 
of  its  style  ;  it  contains  anecdotes  concerning  princes, 
ministers  of  state,  judges,  and  poets,  with  a  selection 
from  their  poetical  productions.  The  text  of  this  book 
has  been  published  in  Paris  by  Sulaiman  al-Hara'iri, 
and  it  has  been  translated  by  E.  Bourgade.  The 
Matmah  al-anfus,  by  the  same  author,  published  at  Con- 
stantinople, seems  to  be  no  more  than  an  earlier  and 
less  extended  form  of  the  same  book. 

Abu  Marwan  'Abdal-Malik  Ibn  Badrun,  of  Silves 
in  Southern  Portugal,  who  came  of  an  old  Himyarite 
family  which  had  emigrated,  lived  at  Seville  in  the 
second  half  of  the  twelfth  century,  and  wrote  an  his- 
torical commentary  on  Ibn  'Abdun's  poem,  which 
has  been  published  by  R.  Dozy. 

Ibn  al-Faradi's  history  of  learned  Spaniards  was 
carried  on  by  Abu'l-Qasim  Khalaf  Ibn  Bashkuwal 
(Aben  Pascualis),  of  Cordova,  under  the  title  of  Kitdb 
al-Sila  (The  Gift)  :  this  work  has  been  published  by 
Codera.  The  author,  who  was  born  on  30th  Sep- 
tember iioi,  was  for  some  time  an  assistant  judge  at 
Seville.  He  died  in  his  native  town  on  5th  January 
1 183.  Another  biography  of  famous  Spaniards  of  both 
sexes  is  the  Bughyat  al-Mutalammis  (Desire  of  the 
Seeker),  by  Abu  Ja'far  Ahmad  ibn  Yahya  AL-DabbI, 
of  Cordova.  This  work  also  contains  a  history  of 
the  conquest  of  Spain  and  of  the  Omeyyad  Caliphs 
down  to  the  year  1196.  Ibn  Bashkuwal's  Sila  was  con- 
tinued by  Aba  'Abdallah  Ibn  al-'Abbar,  who  was  born 
at  Valencia,  and  acted  as  secretary  to  the  governor 
of  that  town,  Muhammad  ibn  Abi  Hafs.  When  the 
governor's  son,  AbCi  Zaid,  became  a  convert  to   Chris- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  205 

tianity,  and  betook  himself  to  the  court  of  the  King  of 
Aragon,  Ibn  al- Abbar  was  despatched  on  a  mission  to 
Africa  to  beg  for  help  against  the  Christians,  who  were 
then  laying  siege  to  Valencia,  and  captured  it,  in  1235,  in 
spite  of  the  fleet  brought  back  by  the  ambassador.  He 
thereupon  resolved  to  leave  Europe,  went  to  Tunis,  and 
obtained  a  post  as  secretary  in  the  Divan.  He  even  rose 
to  be  vizier  under  Al-Mustansir.  He  was  suspected  of 
being  involved  in  a  conspiracy,  and  was  murdered  in  his 
own  house,  by  the  prince's  orders,  2nd  January  1260. 
Besides  the  continuation  already  mentioned,  he  wrote 
the  Hullat  al-siyard,  biographies  of  such  princes  and 
great  men  in  Spain  and  Northern  Africa  as  had  been 
poets.  His  treatise  on  disgraced  secretaries  who  re- 
cover favour,  which  earned  him  the  renewed  patronage 
of  the  Prince  of  Tunis,  is  now  in  the  Escurial  Library. 

To  return  to  the  East.  Abu  'All  Ahmad  ibn  Mu- 
hammad Ibn  Maskawaih,  treasurer  and  confidential 
adviser  of  the  Buwaihid  Prince  'Adud  al-daula,  died  in 
1030,  after  writing  a  universal  history  under  the  title 
of  Tajdrib  al-Umam,  the  sixth  book  of  which  has  been 
published  at  Leyden  by  De  Goeje  ;  a  book  of  practical 
wisdom,  called  A  dab  al- Arab  wa'l-Furs  (Customs  of 
the  Arabs  and  Persians),  which  also  deals  with  the 
Hindoos  and  Greeks  ;  and  a  treatise  on  morality  (Tahdhib 
al-Akkldg),  which  has  been  printed  at  Cairo. 

An  Egyptian  magistrate,  Abil  "Abdallah  Muhammad 
ibn  Salama  AL-QupA'l,  who  had  studied  the  traditions, 
and  Shafi'ite  law,  at  Bagdad,  and  had  been  appointed 
qddt,  was  sent  on  an  embassy  to  the  Roman  Emperor 
at  Constantinople.  When  Abu'l  -  Qasim  'Ali  al  -  Jar- 
jara't,  whose  two  forearrris  had  been  cut  off  by  order 
of  the   Caliph  Al-Hakim,  was  appointed  vizier  by  the 


2o6  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Fatimid  Caliph  Al-Zahir,  in  1027,  AI-Qudai  was  called 
on  to  perform  the  delicate  and  confidential  duty  of  ap- 
pending the  seal  which  rendered  the  minister's  decrees 
valid,  to  each  document.  He  died  at  Old  Cairo  in  1062. 
He  compiled,  under  the  title  of  Kitdb  al-inbd,  a  uni- 
versal history,  from  the  creation  of  the  world  down  to 
the  eleventh  century;  under  that  of  ^Uy{m  al-Mddrif 
(Sources  of  Knowledge),  he  wrote  a  history  of  the 
patriarchs,  prophets,  and  Caliphs — Omeyyad,  'Abbasid, 
and  Fatimid ;  and  under  the  name  of  Shihdb  (The 
Flame),  a  treatise  on  such  traditions  of  the  Prophet  as 
might  serve  as  a  basis  of  morality. 

Abu'l-Hasan  'Ali  'Izz  al-din  IBN  AL-AXHIR,  who  was 
born  at  Jazirat  ibn 'Umar  on  the  Tigris,  at  the  base  of 
the  mountains  of  Kurdistan,  on  13th  Alay  1160,  went  to 
Mosul,  when  he  was  twenty  years  of  age,  with  his  father, 
who  had  just  been  dismissed  from  his  post  as  governor. 
At  Mosul  he  finished  his  education,  and  took  advantage 
of  his  subsequent  journeys  to  extend  his  knowledge  of 
the  traditions  of  the  Prophet  and  of  history,  both  at 
Bagdad,  whither  he  went  seyeral  times,  when  on  pil- 
grimage to  Mecca  or  on  missions  from  the  Prince 
of  Mosul,  in  Syria,  and  at  Jerusalem.  When  he  re- 
turned to  Mosul,  he  lived  as  a  private  citizen,  and 
devoted  his  leisure  to  work  and  study.  His  house 
became  a  rallying-point  for  learned  men  and  foreigners. 
Ibn  Khallikan  met  him  at  Aleppo  in  1229  (he  praises  his 
excessive  modesty) ;  thence  he  went  on,  the  next  year, 
to  Damascus.  He  returned  to  Aleppo,  and  then  went 
back  to  Mosul,  where  he  died  in  May  1234.  His  universal 
history,  al-Kdmil  fi'l-tartkh  (Complete  Chronology),  is 
carried  down  to  the  year  1231  :  the  portion  covering  the 
period  from  the  Creation  till  the  year  of  the  Hegira  310 


THE  'ABBASIDS  207 

is  an  abridgment  of  Tabarf  s  work,  to  which,  as  lately 
demonstrated  by  Herr  Brockelmann  in  a  special  dis- 
sertation, he  has  added  certain  information  drawn  from 
other  sources.  The  text  of  this  book  has  been  pub- 
lished by  Tornberg.  The  Usd  al-ghdba  (Lions  of  the 
Forest)  is  an  historical  treatise  dealing  with  seven  thou- 
sand five  hundred  companions  of  the  Prophet :  it  has 
been  printed  at  Cairo.  This  work  is  important  because 
of  its  bearing  on  the  history  of  the  hadith.  In  his  Lubdb 
he  has  abridged  Sam'ani's  great  work  on  patronymics. 

Abd  Ishaq  Ibrahim  IBN  AbI'l-DAM,  who  was  born  at 
Ham^t  in  1187,  acted  as  Shifi'ite  qddt  in  that  town.  He 
was  sent  on  an  embassy  to  the  Caliph  Musta'sim,  with 
the  object  of  inducing  him  to  invest  Malik-Mansur, 
Prince  of  Hamat,  with  the  government  of  the  district 
of  Mayyafariqin,  which  had  fallen  vacant  owing  to  the 
death  of  Malik  al-Muza£far  Ghazi  (1244).  The  envoy 
fell  sick  on  his  way,  was  forced  to  turn  back  from 
Ma'arra  to  his  native  town,  and  there  died  shortly 
afterwards.  To  this  same  Malik  al-Muzaffar  he  had 
dedicated  his  Ta'rikk  al-Muzaffari,  a  general  history 
of  the  Moslem  peoples,  in  six  volumes,  which  forms 
one  of  the  sources  whence  Abu'1-Fida  drew  his  in- 
formation. That  portion  of  the  work  which  treats  of 
Sicily  has  long  been  studied  in  Europe.  As  early  as 
1650  Inoegeo  translated  it  into  Italian,  later  (1723) 
Carusius  translated  it  into  Latin,  and  Gregorio  (1790) 
gave  it  a  place  amongst  his  collection  of  Arabic  works 
bearing  on  the  history  of  the  great  Italian  island. 

Shams  al-din  Abu'l-Muzaffar  Yusuf  Sibt  Ibn  al- 
jAUZl,  the  son  of  a  Turkish  slave  belonging  to  the 
minister  Ibn  Hubaira,  set  free  and  educated  by  him,  was 
born  at  Bagdad  in  11 86,  and  owed  his  surname  to  the 


208  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

fact  that  his  father  had  married  the  daughter  of  the 
famous  preacher  and  polygraphist  Ibn  al-Jauzi,  who 
brought  up  his  grandson  Yusuf,  for  the  boy's  father 
died  very  soon  after  his  birth.  After  prosecuting  his 
studies  at  Bagdad  and  travelling  about,  he  settled  at 
Damascus  as  a  preacher  and  teacher  of  Hanafite  law, 
and  died  in  that  city  on  loth  January  1257.  His  Mir' at 
al-Zamdn  is  a  universal  history,  carried  down  to  the 
year  1256  ;  his  iadhkirat  Khawdss  al-umma  is  a  history  of 
Caliph  'All  and  his  family,  and  of  the  twelve  imams  ; 
a  manuscript  copy  of  this  work  is  now  at  Leyden. 
Under  the  title  of  al-Jalis  al-sdlik  (The  Honest  Com- 
rade) he  wrote  a  treatise  on  policy  and  on  the  educa- 
tion of  princes,  in  honour  of  Musa  ibn  Abi  Bakr  the 
Ayyubite,  which  is  now  in  the  Gotha  Library  :  the 
Paris  Library  possesses  a  collection  of  anecdotes  called 
Kanz  al-MulAk  (The  Kings'  Treasury). 

But  if  there  is  one  Arab  historian  whose  name  has 
long  been  known  to  the  reader,  he  must  be  George 
al-MakIn  Ibn  al-'Amid  (1205-1273),  son  of  an  unfrocked 
monk,  a  Christian  employe  at  the  Ministry  of  War,  who 
was  born  at  Cairo.  He,  like  his  father,  entered  the 
Government  service,  and  was  given  a  similar  post  at  a 
very  early  age.  When  'Ala  al-din  Tibars,  Governor  of 
Syria,  fell  into  disgrace,  all  the  persons  employed  in  his 
office  were  conveyed  to  Egypt  and  imprisoned  there. 
Amongst  them  went  Al-MakJn  and  his  father.  The 
latter  died  in  1238  ;  the  son  was  soon  set  at  liberty, 
and  given  back  his  post.  He  presently  fell  under 
suspicion  once  more,  and  spent  some  time  in  prison. 
These  mishaps  disgusted  him  with  the  public  service  ; 
he  retired  to  Damascus  and  died  there.  His  universal 
history  bears  the    title    of   al-Majmit   al-Mubdrak  (The 


ITHE  'ABBASIDS  209 

Blessed  Collection) ;  the  second  part,  which  covers  the 
period  between  Mahomet's  time  and  the  year  1260,  has 
been  published  and  translated  into  Latin  by  Erpenius, 
into  English  by  Purchas,  and  into  French  by  Vattier. 

Another  Christian,  a  deacon  of  the  Monophysite  creed 
at  the  Church  of  the  Virgin  in  Old  Cairo,  called  Muallaqa 
(The  Suspended),  Abu  Shukr  Butrus  (Petrus)  Ibn  al- 
Rahib,  who  was  still  alive  in  1282,  wrote  a  universal 
history  carried  down  to  1259,  which  was  translated  into 
Latin  by  the  learned  Maronites,  Abraham  Ecchelensis,  in 
1651,  and  J.  S.  Assemani,  in  1729. 

Yuhanna  ABt)'L-FARAJ,  also  known  under  his  Latin- 
ised Syrian  name  of  Bar-Hebr^eus  (the  son  of  the 
Hebrew),  was  the  son  of  a  baptized  Jewish  physician  of 
Malatia,  named  Ahron.  He  was  born  in  1226,  accom- 
panied his  father  to  Antioch  in  his  flight  before  the 
Mongol  invasion  (1243),  there  became  a  monk,  and  lived 
the  life  of  an  anchorite  in  a  cave ;  later  he  went  as  far 
as  Tripoli,  in  Syria,  to  study  dialectics  and  medicine. 
On  12th  September  1246  he  was  appointed  Bishop  of 
Gubos,  near  Malatia,  and  in  that  quality  assumed  the 
name  of  Gregory.  The  Bishopric  of  Aleppo  rewarded 
him,  in  1252,  for  the  zeal  displayed  in  securing  the  elec- 
tion of  the  new  Jacobite  Patriarch,  Dionysius.  In  1264 
he  was  appointed  maphrian  (Archbishop  of  the  Eastern 
Jacobites).  Mosul  was  the  nominal  seat  of  his  see,  but 
he  usually  lived  in  the  Persian  towns  of  Tabriz  and 
Maragha,  the  habitual  residence  of  the  Mongol  em- 
perors of  Persia.  In  the  last-named  town  he  died,  on 
30th  July  1289.  He  displayed  considerable  activity  in 
Syriac  literature,  but  in  this  place  we  can  only  refer  to 
his  Arabic  works.  The  Mukhtasar  al-duwal  (Epitome 
of  Dynasties)  is,  in  fact,  an  epitomised  history,  to  which 


2IO  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

its  author  has  added  information  as  to  the  medical  and 
m.athematical  literature  of  the  Arabs.  It  is  an  amplified 
translation  of  his  Syrian  chronicle,  made,  a  short  time 
before  his  death,  at  the  request  of  a  Moslem  ;  it  has  been 
published  at  Oxford,  by  E.  Pococke,  and  at  Beyrout,  by 
the  Rev.  Father  Salhani,  and  has  been  translated  into 
German  by  Bauer. 

The  legendary  history  of  the  Hebrew  prophets,  as  it 
reached  the  Arabs  through  the  oral  traditions  preserved 
by  the  Jews  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula,  has  been  treated 
by  Abu  Ishaq  Ahmad  al-Tha'labi  of  Nishapur,  a  Sha- 
fi'ite  jurisconsult,  who  died  in  1036.  His''Ara2s  al-ma- 
idlis  (The  Brides  of  the  Lectures)  has  been  printed  at 
Cairo.  A  more  serious  production  is  his  Al-Kashf  waH- 
baydn  (Inquiry  and  Exposition),  a  commentary  on  the 
Koran  :  a  curious  little  work  on  the  victims  of  the  Koran, 
entitled  Kitdb  mubdrak  (Blessed  Book),  is  devoted  to  the 
story  of  those  who  died  of  listening  to  the  reading  of  the 
sacred  book. 

The  Masdri^  al-ushshdq  is  a  collection  of  tales,  anec- 
dotes, and  poetry,  touching  love  and  lovers,  written 
by  Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  ibn  Ja'far  Ibn  al-Sarraj  of 
Bagdad,  who  was  born  about  1027  and  died  in  1106. 
The  success  of  this  work  accounts  for  its  having  been 
given  an  abridged  form  in  the  Aswdq  al-ashwdq  (Markets 
of  Love)  by  Ibrahim  ibn  'Umar  al-Biqai  (died  1106), 
and  for  this  latter  book  having  furnished  matter  for  a 
process  of  selection  of  which  we  have  the  fruit  in  the 
Tazyin  al-aswdq  (Ornament  of  the  Markets),  arranged  by 
Da'ud  al-Antaki  (died  1599). 

Hujjat  al-din  Muhammad  Ibn  Zafar,  who  was  born 
in  Sicily  and  brought  up  at  Mecca,  lived  in  his  native 
country,    and    died    at    Hamat    in    1169,  leaving  behind 


THE  'ABBASIDS  211 

him  the  Sulzvdn  al-MutSt  (Consolation  of  the  Prince),  a 
political  treatise  ;  the  Inbd  nuj'abd  al-abnd,  characteristic 
traits  and  anecdotes  of  famous  children — the  manuscript 
of  this  work  is'  in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale — and  the 
Khair  al-bushar,  a  collection  of  prophecies  concerning  the 
prophets. 

The  celebrated  caligrapher  Yaqut  al  Musta'simt 
(Jamil  al-din  Abu'1-Durr),  who  died  at  Bagdad  in 
1298,  compiled  an  anthology  of  anecdotes  and  poetry 
under  the  title  of  Akhbar  wa-ash'dr  (Tales  and  Poems), 
and  a  collection  of  sentences  and  apophthegms,  called 
Asrdr  al-hukamd  (Secrets  of  the  Wise). 

The  Fables  of  KalIla  and  Dimna 

Some  literary  men  had  begun  to  translate  works  of 
a  class  not  existing  in  Arabic  literature,  out  of  the 
Pehlevi  tongue.  It  need  scarcely  be  said  that  this  labour 
was  undertaken  by  Persians,  who  were  equally  skilful  in 
the  use  of  both  languages.  'Abdallah  Ibn  al-Muqaffa' 
was  a  Persian,  who,  before  he  became  a  convert  to 
Islam,  bore  the  name  of  Ruzbih.  He  lived  at  Bassora, 
where  he  became  the  close  friend  of  Khalil,  the  gram- 
marian. He  was  put  to  death  in  757  by  order  of 
Caliph  al-Mansur,  whose  anger  he  had  stirred  by  the 
fashion  in  which  he  had  drawn  up  the  deed  of  amnesty 
touching  his  uncle  'Abdallah  ibn  'AIL  The  Governor  of 
Bassora  eagerly  seized  this  opportunity  for  avenging  the 
sarcasms  of  which  he  had  been  made  a  victim  by  the 
Persians ;  he  had  his  enemy's  limbs  cut  off  and  thrown 
into  an  oven.  Ibn  al-Muqaffa'  translated  the  fables  of 
Kalila  and  Dimna  out  of  the  Pehlevi  into  Arabic.  These 
fables  are  simply  an   adaptation  of    the  Indian  tales  of 


2  12  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

the  Panchatantra,  originally  brought  back  from  India  in 
the  time  of  Chosroes  I.  Nushirwan,  by  the  physician 
Barzuya.  He  also  wrote  the  Durra  al-  Yattma,  on  the 
obedience  due  to  kings,  which  has  been  printed  at  Cairo, 
and  the  Siyar  Muluk  al-Ajam  —  biographies  of  the 
Persian  kings,  translated  from  a  Pehlevi  book,  Khuddi- 
ndma,  which  was  produced  during  the  reign  of  the  last 
of  the  Sasanians,  Yezdegird  III.  This  book  was  one  of 
the  sources  whence  the  Persian  poet  Firdausi  later  drew 
the  elements  of  his  Book  of  the  Kings.  The  Arabic  trans- 
lation is  lost,  but  numerous  fragments  of  it  occur  in 
Ibn  Qutaiba's  '  C/r^«  al-akhbdr.  Ibn  al-Muqa£fa"s  father's 
name  was  Dadawaih.  He  had  been  charged,  under  the 
rule  of  the  famous  and  cruel  Hajjaj,  with  the  duty  of 
collecting  the  taxes  in  the  Provinces  of  'Iraq  and  Fars, 
and  was  guilty  of  extortion.  Hajjaj  had  him  put  to  the 
torture,  and  as  a  result  one  of  his  hands  always  remained 
shrunk  and  curled  up — hence  the  surname  of  Muqaffa'. 
Abdallah  was  in  the  service  of  'ls§.  ibn  'Ali,  the  paternal 
uncle  of  the  Caliphs  Abu'l-Abbas  Saffah  and  Mansur. 
It  was  to  him  that  he  addressed  his  abjuration  of  Zoro- 
astrianism.  He  has  been  accused,  with  other  enemies 
of  Islam,  of  having  endeavoured  to  imitate  the  style 
of  the  Koran,  and  would  in  this  case  have  been  a 
predecessor  of  the  contemporary  renewer  of  Islamism 
in  Persia,  "Ali  Muhammad  the  Bab,  who  also  wrote  in 
the  Koranic  style.  Khalil  said  of  him  that  he  had  more 
learning  than  judgment ;  it  is  true  that  Ibn  al-Muqaffa' 
had  said  the  grammarian  had  more  judgment  than 
learning. 

He  was  asked,  one  day,  to  say  from  whom  he  had 
learnt  the  rules  of  politeness.  "  I  have  been  my  own 
teacher,"  he  replied.     "  Whenever  I  have  seen  another 


THE  'ABBASIDS  ■      213 

man  do  a  good  action,  I  have  followed  his  example,  and 
whenever  I  have  seen  any  one  do  an  ill-bred  thing,  I  have 
avoided  doing  it." 

Anthologies 

'Anir  ibn  Bahr,  surnamed  Al-Jahiz  (With  a  wide- 
open  and  goggle  eye),  was  a  man  of  extraordinarily 
varied  intelligence,  who  turned  his  mind  to  many  sub- 
jects, and  produced  many  works,  more  with  a  view 
to  amusement  than  instruction.  He  lived  at  Bassora. 
Theologically  speaking,  he  was  a  Mu'tazilite,  but  he 
nevertheless  created  a  sect  which  was  called  after  his 
own  name,  Jahiziyya.  He  was  the  friend  of  Ibn 
al-Zayyat,  minister  to  the  Caliph  Al-Wathiq,  and  very 
nearly  shared  his  fate  when  he  was  put  to  death  by 
Mutawakkil.  However,  the  Caliph,  to  whom  he  had 
been  recommended,  sent  for  him  to  Bagdad,  to  superin- 
tend his  own  son's  education.  But  on  seeing  how  ugly 
he  was  he  immediately  dismissed  him,  with  a  gift  of  ten 
thousand  dirhems.  He  owed  his  surname,  indeed,  to 
his  projecting  eyeballs. 

He  died  in  869.  Towards  the  end  of  his  life  he  was 
attacked  by  a  kind  of  paralysis,  which  inflamed  one  side 
of  his  body,  while  the  other  remained  so  cold  and  devoid 
of  sensation  that  he  felt  nothing,  even  if  it  was  dragged 
with  pincers.  During  his  illness  he  often  said:  "Sick- 
nesses of  opposite  kinds  have  conspired  against  my 
body.  If  I  eat  anything  cold,  it  strikes  my  feet,  and  if 
I  touch  anything  hot,  it  goes  to  my  head."  He  was 
ninety-six  years  old,  "and  that  is  the  burden  that 
weighs  least  upon  me,"  he  would  say. 

Amongst  his  works,  reference  must  be  made  to  the 
Kitdb  al-Baydn  wa  l-tabayyun  (not  tabyin,  as  it  has  been 


2  14  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

printed),  a  book  on  rhetoric,  but  with  no  didactic  char- 
acter at  all.  Its  teaching  is  conveyed  through  the  medium 
of  anecdotes  of  the  most  varied  description.  The  text  of 
this  work  has  been  published  at  Cairo.  His  Book  of 
Animals  {Kitdb  al-hayawdfi)  is  not  precisely  a  treatise  on 
natural  history,  but  rather  an  anthology  of  passages  in 
which  animals  are  mentioned,  with  what  has  been  said 
about  them.  He  also  wrote  a  book  on  the  conduct  of 
kings,  which  is  full  of  interesting  details  on  the  rules  of 
etiquette  ;  a  book  on  misers — scenes  drawn  from  the 
private  life  and  customs  of  the  natives  of  Bassora, 
which  has  lately  been  published  at  Leyden  by  G.  van 
Vloten  ;  another  on  the  virtues  of  the  Turks,  a  copy  of 
which  was  at  one  time  in  the  Schefer  collection,  and  is 
now  in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale  ;  a  parallel  between 
spring  and  autumn,  which  has  been  printed  at  Con- 
stantinople under  this  author's  name,  although  the  proof 
of  its  being  his  work  is  by  no  means  trustworthy  ;  and 
a  collection  of  one  hundred  apophthegms,  which  were 
attributed,  without  any  real  cause,  to  'All,  the  Prophet's 
son-in-law,  and  which  attained  great  popularity.  Besides 
all  this,  he  has  been  taken  to  be  the  author  of  the  Kitdb 
al-Mahdsin  (Book  of  Beauties  and  Antitheses),  the  Arabic 
text  of  which  has  appeared  at  Leyden,  thanks  to  the 
care  of  Van  Vloten  ;  this  is,  at  all  events,  the  direct 
outcome  of  his  school. 

Under  the  title  of  Al-Faraj  bad  al-Shidda  (Pleasure 
after  Pain),  IBN  Abi'l-Dunya  (Abij  Bakr  ibn'Abdallah) 
wrote  a  compilation  of  anecdotes  and  short  moral 
tales,  on  the  model,  and  with  the  same  name,  as  one 
of  Al-Mada'ini's  works,  now  lost.  He  was  born  in 
823,  and,  though  a  client  of  the  Omeyyads,  was  ap- 
pointed   tutor    to    the    Caliph    Al-Muktafi,    when    that 


THE  'ABBAsIDS  21  s 

monarch  was  a  child.  He  died  in  894.  His  Makdrim 
al-Akhldq  (Noble  Qualities)  is  a  moral  treatise  on  the 
human  ideal,  according  to  the  traditions  "of  the  Prophet. 
His  Dhanim  al-maldhi  {fildiiae  of  Musical  Instruments)  is 
a  treatise  of  the  same  nature,  directed  against  dissipation 
in  general,  which,  he  avers,  begins  with  music  and  ends 
in  drunkenness  and  debauchery.  He  wrote  many  others 
which  either  only  exist  in  manuscript  or  are  merely  known 
to  us  through  quotations. 

Ibn  'Abd  -  Rabbihi  (Abu  'Umar  Ahmad  ibn  Mu- 
hammad), born  at  Cordova  in  860,  was  descended  from 
a  freedman  of  the  Omeyyads  who  ruled  in  Spain.  He 
was  at  once  a  classical  and  a  popular  poet,  and  died 
in  940,  after  having  suffered,  for  several  years,  from 
paralysis.  He  was  the  author  of  another  well-known 
anthology,  Al-'Iqd  al-Fartd  (The  Unique  Necklace), 
divided  into  twenty-five  chapters,  the  pearls  forming 
the  necklace,  the  thirteenth  chapter  being  the  central 
and  largest  pearl. 

Al-Tanukh!  (AbiJ  'Ali  Muhsin)  (939-994),  son  of 
the  qddt  and  poet  'All  ibn  al-Husain,  who  was  born  at 
Bassora,  wrote  a  Faraj  bad  al-Shidda  (Collection  of 
Stories  to  Drive  away  Boredom),  modelled  on  works 
by  Mada'ini  and  Ibn  Abi'l-Dunyi.  This  author  acted 
as  qddt  in  various  towns  near  the  Euphrates  and  in 
Susiana.  He  also  wrote  a  Kitdb  al-Mustajdd,  a  collec- 
tion of  anecdotes  and  characteristic  traits,  in  the  time 
of  the'Abbasids,  and  the  Nashwdn  al-muliddara  (Stimulus 
to  Conversation),  which  is  a  book  of  the  same  kind,  now 
in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale.  When  he  wrote  his 
Faraj  (957)  he  was  at  the  head  of  the  Weighing  Office 
at  the  Mint  of  al-Ahwaz,  in  Susiana. 


CHAPTER   VIII 

THE  'ABBASIDS—ContmueJ 

The  Traditions  of  the  Prophet — Jurisprudence 

The  Koran  alone  did  not  suffice  to  provide  laws  for  so 
great  an  empire  ;  it  became  necessary,  at  a  very  early 
period,  to  cast  light  on  its  precepts  by  means  of  the 
explanations  furnished  by  Mahomet  himself,  transmitted, 
more  or  less  faithfully,  through  the  medium  of  human 
memory,  at  Medina  and  elsewhere.  By  the  time  an 
attempt  was  made  to  commit  these  sayings  of  the  Prophet 
to  writing,  the  mischief  was  already  done — the  greater 
part  had  been  deformed  by  untrustworthy  memories ; 
others,  again,  had  been  fabricated  from  beginning  to 
end,  to  justify  the  tendencies  of  certain  groups  of  dis- 
sidents. Then  was  created  the  science  of  the  hadith, 
that  is  to  say,  of  criticism  as  applied  to  the  sources  of 
tradition,  all  of  them  of  the  same  nature,  since  all 
necessarily  went  back  to  the  study  of  the  testimony 
of  the  succession  of  oral  witnesses  who  transmitted  the 
Prophet's  sayings  by  word  of  mouth,  as  they  had  re- 
ceived them  from  his  companions,  who  had  heard  them 
spoken,  and  learnt  them  by  heart.  This  science  of  the 
hadith,  as  it  was  understood  by  the  Arabs,  really  follows 
the  course  prescribed  for  a  Moslem  judge,  who,  before 
he  permits  any  witness  to  give  evidence,  must  inquire 


THE  'ABBASIDS  217 

into  his  moral  character,  his  manner  of  life,  and  his 
reputation  for  uprightness.  By  this  system  of  criticism 
a  sustained  chain  of  evidence  has  been  established  as  to 
a  certain  number  of  these  apophthegms ;  it  can  only 
guarantee  the  authenticity  of  the  transmission,  not  that 
of  the  original  tradition.  All  we  have  to  vouch  for  the 
truth  of  that  is  the  veracity  and  good  memory  of  the 
man  who  received  it,  in  the  first  instance,  from  the 
Prophet's  lips. 

The  first  works  devoted  to  the  hadith,  then,  are  works 
on  jurisprudence.  After  those  of  Malik  ibn  Anas  and 
Ahmad  Ibn  Hanbal,  we  must  notice  the  Musnad,  in 
which  the  traditions  are  arranged  in  the  order  of  the 
most  recent  witnesses,  without  any  regard  to  the 
subject  matter  contained.  After  these  come  the  books 
known  as  Musannaf,  in  which  the  traditions  are  arranged 
by  their  contents,  and  divided  into  chapters  according 
to  the  various  subjects,  ritual,  legal,  or  moral,  whereof 
they  treat.  The  object  of  adopting  this  arrangement 
was  to  render  inquiry  relatively  easy  to  those  jurists 
who  favoured  adherence  to  the  letter  of  the  haditJi, 
in  opposition  to  their  opponents,  who  recognised 
interpretations  founded  on  the  sense  accepted  by  in- 
dividual judges  {ashdb  al-ra'y).  The  earliest  work  of  this 
description,  and  one  which  is  still  looked  on  as  a  pattern 
and  a  masterpiece,  is  the  Sahih  (Sincere  Book),  by 
BOkhaki.  Abu  'Abdallah  Muhammad  ibn  Isma'il  was 
born  at  Bukhara  on  21st  July  810,  of  an  Iranian  family. 
His  grandfather  was  called  Berdizbeh,  or  Yezdizbeh. 
When  he  was  sixteen,  he  went  on  pilgrimage  to  Mecca, 
and  took  this  opportunity  of  attending  the  lessons  given 
by  teachers  of  the  tradition  at  Mecca  and  Medina.  He 
then  went  on  to  Egypt,  and  travelled  with  the  same 
15 


2i8  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

object  all  over  Moslem  Asia,  spending  five  whole  years 
at  Bassora.  After  an  absence  of  sixteen  years  in  all,  he 
returned  to  Bukhara,  and  there  wrote  his  Sahih.  He 
died  on  30th  August  870.  The  Governor  of  Khurasan 
had  banished  him  to  Kharteng,  a  village  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Samarqand.  While  he  was  at  Medina  he 
wrote  his  great  historical  work  on  the  trustworthy  tradi- 
tionists.  The  manuscript  of  this  work  is  now  in  the  St. 
Sophia  Library.  When  he  returned  to  Bukhara,  he 
brought  back  six  hundred  thousand  traditions  with  him, 
and  out  of  these  he  chose  seven  thousand  two  hundred 
and  seventy-five,  which  alone  are  included  in  the  Saluk 
and  which,  according  to  his  view,  are  the  only  ones 
universally  admitted  to  be  authentic.  He  also  wrote  a 
commentary  on  the  Koran. 

Another  Sahih  was  written  at  the  same  period  by  a 
contemporary  of  Bukhari,  MUSLIM  (Abu'1-Husain  ibn 
al-Hajjaj),  who  was  born  at  Nishapur  in  Khurasan  in 
817,  paid  several  visits  to  Bagdad,  and  died  in  the  city 
of  his  birth  on  6th  May  875.  The  matter  of  Muslim's 
book,  like  that  contained  in  Bukhari's  (with  which  it  is 
identical,  save  for  the  addition  of  more  authorities),  is 
arranged  in  the  order  adopted  for  legal  subjects,  but 
without  any  chapter  headings.  It  is  also  remarkable  for 
its  introduction,  wherein  the  author  treats  of  the  science 
of  the  traditions  in  a  general  and  complete  manner. 

He,  too,  went  to  the  Hijaz,  toTraq,  Syria,  and  Egypt, 
to  search  out  traditions.  He  is  said  to  have  collected 
more  than  three  hundred  thousand,  on  which  his  selection 
is  based.  The  friendship  between  Muslim  and  Bukhari 
survived  even  the  persecutions  which  drove  the  latter 
author  from  his  native  city.  Muslim  defended  his  friend's 
cause    against    certain    theologians    who    affirmed    the 


THE   'ABBASIDS  219 

doctrine  that  not  only  was  the  Koran  itself  eternal,  as 
being  the  word  of  God,  but  that  the  same  rule  applied 
to  the  pronunciation  of  the  words  of  which  it  is  com- 
posed. 

These  two  SahtJis,  Bukhari's  and  Muslim's,  have 
become  two  canonical  books  of  Islam.  They  may  be 
considered  to  sum  up  the  science  of  tradition  in  the 
third  century  of  the  Hegira.  Four  other  works  com- 
plete the  six  canonical  books  to  which  Moslems  pin  their 
faith  :  they  were  all  produced  during  the  same  period. 
These  are  the  Sunan  (Customs),  by  Abu  Da'ud 
(Sulaimin  ibn  al-Ash'ath),  who  belonged  to  Sijistan, 
and  was  born  in  817.  After  long  wanderings  in  foreign 
countries,  like  those  undertaken  by  his  fellow-authors,  he 
settled  at  Bassora,  and  died  there  in  February  889.  His 
work  only  contains  those  traditions  which  are  interesting 
as  regards  jurisprudence  or  the  rules  affecting  ritual. 
This  work,  at  the  outset,  gained  immense  popularity, 
equalling  that  attained  by  the  SahtJis,  but  it  ultimately 
fell  into  complete  obscurity,  whereas  the  authority  of  the 
works  of  Muslim  and  Bukhari  has  increased  steadily 
until  the  present  day.  Abij  Da'ud  had  collected  some 
five  hundred  thousand  traditions,  four  thousand  eight 
hundred  of  which  he  selected  for  his  book.  He  was  not 
very  critical,  for  he  himself  acknowledged  he  had  in- 
serted not  only  the  authentic  traditions,  but  others  which 
seemed  authentic,  and  yet  others  which  were  nearly 
authentic  :  but  he  added  that  out  of  this  number,  only 
four  were  indispensable  for  the  religious  guidance  of 
man.  Here  is  his  summary  of  Islamic  law  :  "Actions 
will  be  judged  according  to  intentions  :  the  proof  of  a 
Moslem's  sincerity  is  that  he  pays  no  heed  to  that  which 
is  not  his  business  :  no  man  is  a  true  believer  unless  he 


2  20  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

desires  for  his  brother  that  which  he  desires  for  himself : 
that  which  is  lawful  is  clear,  and  that  which  is  unlawful 
likewise,  but  there  are  certain  doubtful  things  between 
the  two,  from  which  it  is  well  to  abstain." 

Under  the  title  of  JdmV  (Complete  Collection),  Abu 
'Isa  Muhammad  AL-TlRMlDHt  has  written  a  kind  of  en- 
cyclopcedia  of  the  traditions  which  throw  light  upon  the 
law,  pointing  out  those  which  have  served  as  arguments 
in  such  and  such  legal  questions,  and  indicating  the 
differences  between  the  various  schools  of  jurisprudence. 
This  renders  his  book,  which  has  been  printed  at  Bulaq, 
one  of  the  first  importance  to  the  student  desirous  of 
keeping  the  schools  distinct  from  their  original  begin- 
nings. He  was  a  pupil  of  Bukhari,  was  born  at  Bush 
near  Tirmidh,  a  small  town  on  the  banks  of  the  Oxus  in 
Central  Asia,  and  died  at  the  same  place  in  892,  having, 
like  his  fellows,  travelled  all  over  the  world  to  seek  out 
traditions.  Besides  his  book  on  the  hadWi,  we  have  his 
Kitdb  al-shamd' il,  on  the  physiognomy  and  external 
qualities  of  the  Prophet  Mahomet,  a  book  on  which 
more  than  ten  commentaries  have  been  written,  and  the 
text  of  which  has  been  printed  at  Calcutta,  at  Cairo,  and 
at  Fez,  and  also  a  collection  of  forty  selected  traditions, 
intended  to  sum  up  the  principles  of  Moslem  law.  This 
is  the  first  known  specimen  of  a  work  of  this  nature — 
they  were  eventually  to  swarm. 

Another  Sunan  is  that  of  Abii'Abdal- Rahman  Ahmad 
AL-Nasa'1,  remarkable  for  his  useful  inquiries  into  the 
smallest  details  of  ritual.  (My  readers  are  aware  that  the 
cases  of  conscience  set  forth  and  decided  by  Moslem 
casuists,  on  such  points  as  degrees  of  bodily  impurity, 
the  nature  of  the  water  used  for  ablutions,  &c.,  are 
exceedingly  subtle  and  far-fetched.)     He  quotes  texts  for 


THE  'ABBASIDS  221 

every  case,  even  for  popular  manifestations  of  religious 
feeling.  In  the  part  dealing  with  jurisprudence,  he 
provides  formulas  for  every  possible  case  in  law.  The 
book  is  therefore  an  ample  formulary  of  ritual  and  legal 
casuistry ;  it  furnishes  very  little  information  as  to  the 
history  of  dogma.  The  author  was  born  at  Nasa  in 
Khurisin  in  830.  He  went  to  Old  Cairo,  where  he  lived 
till  914 :  he  then  departed  to  Damascus,  and  there 
stirred  up  popular  opinion  by  a  book  of  traditions 
favourable  to  the  family  of  'All.  The  mob,  which  still 
clung  to  the  memory  of  the  Omeyyads,  drove  him  out 
of  the  Mosque,  and  trampled  him  under  foot.  He  was 
taken  to  Ramla  in  Palestine,  and  there  died  of  the  effects 
of  the  treatment  he  had  received.  One  author,  how- 
ever, asserts  that  he  was  conveyed  to  Mecca,  and  was 
buried  there.  He  has  left  us  another  book,  on  the 
weak  traditionists — that  is  to  say,  those  in  whom  only  a 
limited  confidence  can  be  placed.  This  work  is  now  to 
be  found,  in  manuscript,  in  the  British  Museum,  and  also 
in  the  Bodleian  Library.  Nasa'i  was  a  man  of  strong 
passions,  and,  to  keep  them  under,  was  in  the  habit  of 
fasting  every  second  day. 

The  fourth  of  these  works  is  the  Sunan  of  IBN  MAjA 
(Abu  "Abdallah  Muhammad  ibn  Yazid)  (824-887),  of 
Qazvin  in  Persia,  who  travelled  over  the  whole  East, 
from  Khurasan  to  Egypt.  The  success  of  this  book  was 
but  mediocre,  on  account  of  the  number  of  doubtful 
traditions  it  contains :  it  was  not  included  among  the 
canonical  books  till  at  a  later  date.  It  has  been  litho- 
graphed at  Delhi.  Ibn  Maja  also  wrote  a  history,  now 
lost,  of  his  native  town. 

Besides  these  six  corpuses  of  Moslem  law  and  tradi- 
tions, we  have  the  Musnad  of  Al-Dakim1  ('Abdallah  ibn 


222  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

'Abdal-Rahman)  of  Samarqand,  who  died  in  869.  This 
does  not  contain  more  than  a  third  of  the  matter  the 
first  six  embrace,  and  is  drawn  up  for  practical  use. 
It  has  been  lithographed  at  Cawnpore.  Ibn  Hibban 
(Muhammad  ibn  Ahmad)  (885-965),  who  was  born  at 
Bust  in  Sijistan,  between  Herat  and  Ghazna,  and  may 
have  been  of  Iranian  origin,  travelled  far  and  wide,  from 
Central  Asia  to  Alexandria,  and,  on  his  return,  was 
appointed  qddi  of  Samarqand,  Nasa,  and  Nishapur.  He 
finally  went  back  to  his  native  town,  as  a  teacher  of 
the  traditions,  and  died  there.  He  had  built  himself 
a  house,  in  which  he  arranged  his  large  library.  He 
studied  astronomy,  medicine,  and  other  sciences.  His 
book  bears  the  title  of  Taqdsim  wd I-anwa  . 

Abu  Bakr  al-Ajurr!  (Muhammad  ibn  al-Husain), 
who  was  born  at  Ajurr  (The  Bricks),  a  village  near 
Bagdad,  is  the  author  of  a  book  of  forty  traditions,  which 
brought  him  fame,  and  is  now  to  be  found,  with  other 
works  by  the  same  author — such  as  a  treatise  on  the 
question  of  whether  the  true  believer  ought  to  seek 
learning,  and  what  qualities  those  who  carry  the  Koran 
should  possess — in  the  Berlin  Library. 

Abu'l  Hasan  'All  ibn  'Umar  al-Daraqutn!,  who 
owes  his  surname  to  a  large  quarter  in  the  town  of 
Bagdad,  called  Dar  al-Qutn  (House  of  Cotton),  was 
born  in  that  city  in  April  919.  He  was  a  celebrated 
jurisconsult  of  the  Shafi'ite  rite.  He  learnt  the  tradi- 
tions at  an  early  age,  at  the  feet  of  Abii  Bakr,  son  of 
Mujahid,  and  was  his  true  successor.  Towards  the  end 
of  his  life  he  began  to  teach  the  reading  of  the  Koran. 
He  knew  the  diwdns  of  several  of  the  desert  poets  by 
heart,  amongst  them  that  of  Sayyid  Himyari.  This  made 
many  believe  he  was   a  follower  of   this  poet's  Shfite 


THE  "ABBASIDS  223 

tenets.  He  was  a  man  of  scrupulous  conscience.  Once, 
having  been  called  to  bear  witness  against  Ibn  Ma'rilf, 
he  repented,  after  it  was  done,  because  his  evidence  as  to 
the  traditions  had  been  accepted  by  the  judge  without 
any  demur,  and  merely  on  his  own  authority,  whereas  as 
a  rule  two  witnesses  are  considered  necessary.  Having 
heard  that  Ja'far  ibn  Hinzaba,  the  vizier  of  the  Ikhshi- 
dite  Prince  Kafur,  in  Egypt,  had  made  up  his  mind  to 
prepare  a  Corpus  of  traditions  after  the  manner  of  the 
Musnad,  he  resolved  to  take  the  journey  into  Egypt,  to 
assist  him  in  the  work.  He  remained  in  that  country, 
where  he  was  liberally  rewarded,  till  it  was  concluded. 
He  died  on  his  return  to  his  native  city  (December 
995).  His  Kitdb  al-Sunan  (Book  of  Customs)  is  in  the 
St.  Sophia  Library.  In  another  work  (al-istidrdkdt  wa'l- 
tatabbu")  he  proves  the  uncertainty  of  two  hundred  of 
the  traditions  accepted  in  the  two  Sahths  of  Bukhari  and 
Muslim.  The  book  is  thus  a  critical  work,  dealing  with 
the  traditions. 

Al-Khattabi  (Hamd  ibn  Muhammad),  whose  name 
was  popularly  pronounced  Ahmad,  instead  of  Hamd,  was 
born  at  Bust  in  Sijistan,  in  931,  and  died  in  the  same 
town  in  March  998.  His  works  are  commentaries  on 
the  great  canonical  books.  Towards  the  close  of  his 
life  he  inclined  to  mysticism,  and  took  refuge  in  a  ribdt 
or  Sufi  convent,  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Hilmend.  He 
had  studied  in  Traq.  He  was  a  poet,  and  it  was  he  who 
said  :  "  It  is  not  the  pain  of  absence,  but  the  lack  of  a 
sympathetic  friend,  which  is  the  greatest  affliction  a  man 
can  endure.  I  am  a  stranger  to  Bust  and  its  people,  yet 
here  I  was  born,  and  here  my  kinsfolk  dwell." 

Al-Bayyi'  (Muhammad  ibn 'Abdallah),  born  atNish^- 
pur  in  933,  was  appointed  qddt  of  his  native  town  in  966, 


224  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

but  he  made  a  long  journey  through  Khurasan  and 
the  Hijaz  during  the  following  years.  Later,  although 
appointed  qddi  of  Jurjan,  he  declined  the  post,  and 
was  frequently  employed  by  the  Samanids  on  embassies 
to  the  Buwaihids,  who,  through  their  conquest  of  Bagdad, 
had  become  masters  of  the  Caliphate.  He  died  on 
3rd  August  1014.  He  made  a  second  journey  through 
the  East  in  971,  and  held  successful  disputations  with 
the  learned  men  of  the  different  cities  in  which  he 
halted.  He  leant,  at  that  time,  towards  the  doctrines 
of  the  Shi'ites.  He  wrote  his  Kitdb  al-Mustadrak  as  a 
criticism  of  the  two  Sahihs,  to  prove  that  several  tra- 
ditions overlooked  in  these  two  works  were  perfectly 
authentic,  and  had  been  wrongly  passed  over. 

Ibn  FCirak,  of  Ispahan  (Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  ibn 
al-Hasan),  was  educated  at  Bagdad,  and  afterwards  pro- 
ceeded to  Rai,  where  his  stay  was  rendered  uncomfort- 
able by  certain  innovators  in  religious  matters,  and 
thence  to  Nishapur,  where  he  was  exceedingly  successful 
both  as  a  teacher  and  a  writer.  He  was  later  summoned 
to  Ghazna  in  Afghanistan,  where  he  carried  on  numerous 
controversies.  He  was  on  his  way  back  from  this  town 
when  he  died  of  poison.  He  was  known  as  Ustdd,  the 
Master  par  excellence.  A  college  and  a  dwelling-house 
were  built  on  purpose  for  him.  His  body  was  con- 
veyed to  Nishapur,  and  the  funeral  chapel  erected 
there  became  a  place  of  pilgrimage.  When  rain  was 
wanted  for  the  country,  prayers  were  offered  on  his 
tomb,  and  were  always  answered.  One  of  his  sayings 
was  as  follows  :  "  The  burden  of  a  family  is  the  result 
of  a  lawful  passion  ;  what  then  can  be  the  result  of  an 
unlawful  one  ?  "  His  book  defining  the  foundations  of 
Hanafite    law    is  in    the    British    Museum  :  the   Leyden 


THE  'ABBASIDS  225 

Library  possesses  his  treatise  on  certain  traditions  : 
other  worlis  of  his  are  in  the  Ubrary  of  Raghib-Pacha  at 
Constantinople. 


Criticism  of  the  Authorities  of  the  HadIth 

Alongside  of  the  science  of  the  haditk,  which  is  one  of 
codification  and  criticism,  there  rises  up,  in  the  tenth 
century,  that  called  "^ihn  al-rijal — strictly  speaking,  the 
science  of  men,  which  is  specially  applied  to  the 
criticism  of  the  witnesses  and  authorities  on  whom 
the  whole  edifice  of  tradition  rests.  Among  the  most 
important  authors  who  have  written  on  this  subject  we 
may  mention  Ibn  Abi  Hatim  ('Abdal-Rahmin),  born  at 
Rai  in  894,  died  at  Tiis  in  Khurasan  in  939,  author  of  the 
Kitab  al-jarh  wa'l-tddil  (Criticism  and  Correction),  in  six 
volumes,  the  manuscript  of  which  is  both  at  Cairo  and 
at  Constantinople  :  Al-Tabarani  (Abu'l-Qasim  Sulaiman) 
(870-971),  born  at  Tiberias,  who  spent  thirty  years  in 
travel,  then  settled  at  Ispahan,  and  died  there  ;  his  best 
known  work  is  the  Mujam  (Alphabetical  Dictionary  of 
the  Traditionists),  of  which  he  furnished  three  editions, 
one  complete;  one  of  middle  size,  and  one  abridged ; 
the  isolated  volumes  now  in  Paris,  at  the  British 
Museum,  and  the  Escurial  belong  to  this  last  edition  : 
Al-Kalabadhi  (Abil  Nasr  Ahmad),  born  in  918,  in  one  of 
the  quarters  of  Bukhara,  from  which  his  surname  was 
derived,  died  in  398  (1008),  leaving  a  work  on  the  names 
of  the  huffdz  quoted  in  Bukhari's  Sahih :  also  'Abdal- 
Ghani  ibn  Said,  the  Egyptian,  born  at  Cairo  in  944, 
who,  with  the  two  philologists  Abu  Usama  Junada  and 
Abu  'Alt  al-Hasan,  of  Antloch,  frequented  the  library 
founded  by  the  Caliph  Al-Hakim  ;  this  friendship  was 


2  26  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

broken  in  sad  fashion  by  the  execution  of  the  two 
philologists,  on  the  Caliph's  order,  and  'Abdal-Ghani, 
alarmed  for  his  own  life,  remained  in  hiding  till  he  felt  he 
was  safe.  He  died  in  the  night  of  25th-26th  June  1018, 
leaving  a  book  on  the  names  of  traditionists  resembling 
each  other,  and  those  which  differ.  It  is  now  in  the 
library  of  Kyuprulu  Mehemet-Pacha  at  Constantinople. 


Subsequent  Development  of  the  HadIth 

The  science  of  the  traditions,  which  reached  its 
highest  point  in  the  composition  of  the  six  great  books, 
now  approaches  the  period  when  it  became  necessary  to 
abridge,  commentate,  and  explain  the  codes  left  by  the 
famous  authors.  Before  long  the  fundamental  rules  of 
the  Moslem  faith  were  summed  up,  for  the  benefit  of 
the  general  public,  into  a  selection  of  forty  .traditions, 
and  these,  in  their  turn,  became  the  subject  of  endless 
commentaries.  My  readers  will  understand  that  only 
those  works,  out  of  this  very  large  body,  which  have 
earned  some  lasting  success  and  produced  some  durable 
impression,  can  be  mentioned  here. 

In  Egypt,  Abu  1-Qasim  al-Husain  ibn  'Ali  AL-Waz!r 
AL-Maghribi  was  born  in  981,  of  an  important  family 
of  Persian  descent.  His  great-great-grandfather's  name 
was  Bahram.  When,  on  loth  July  loio,  the  Fatimid 
Caliph  Al-Hakim  caused  the  chief  members  of  his 
family  to  be  put  to  death,  he  fled  to  Ramla,  and  induced 
the  prince  who  governed  that  town  to  rise  against  his 
suzerain,  but  in  spite  of  the  support  afforded  by  the 
Sharif  of  Mecca,  who  was  defeated,  the  undertaking 
failed,  the  prince  of  Ramla  made  terms  with  the  savage 
Hakim,  and  Abu'l-Qasim  departed  into  Eastern  regions, 


THE  -ABBASIDS  227 

where  he  filled  high  official  posts  in  the  service  of  the 
princes  of  those  countries.  At  the  time  of  his  death,  at 
Mayyafariqin  (in  1027  or  1037),  he  was  acting  as  minister 
to  Prince  Ibn  Marwan.  Of  his  hterary  work  nothing 
now  remains.  The  British  Museum  possesses  the  Kitdb 
al-inds,  a  dictionary,  in  alphabetical  order,  of  the  names 
of  the  Arab  tribes,  with  quotations  from  the  poets,  and 
historical  and  biographical  notices. 

Abu  Bakr  ibn  al-Husain  AL-BAiHAQt  (994-1066)  was 
born  in  the  village  of  Khusraugird,  a  dependency  of 
Baihaq,  near  Nishapur  in  Khurasan,  travelled  for  a 
long  time,  seeking  traditions  of  the  Prophet,  and 
taught  Shafi'ite  law  at  Nishapiir,  where  he  died.  He 
was  the  first  writer  to  collect  the  sentences  or  legal 
opinions  of  Al-Shafi'l  into  ten  volumes.  One  large 
collection  of  traditions  bears  the  title  of  Kitdb  al-sunan 
■wa' l-dthdr.  Of  this  an  autograph  manuscript,  and  also 
an  abridgment,  are  now  preserved  at  Cairo. 

The  Amir  Abu  Nasr  'Ah  Ibn  MakOla  was  also  of 
Persian  origin.  He  was  born  at  'Ukbara,  not  far  from 
Bagdad,  on  9th  August  1030.  His  father,  Hibat-Allah, 
became  minister  to  the  Caliph  Al-Qa'im  ;  he  went 
with  him  to  Bagdad,  where  his  uncle  was  qddt,  and  then 
undertook  long  journeys.  During  one  of  these,  on 
Persian  territory,  he  was  murdered  and  stripped  by  his 
Turkish  slaves.  The  exact  date  of  this  event  is  not  known 
(towards  1094).  He  had  devoted  himself  to  the  study  of 
proper  names.  We  still  have  his  Ikmdl  (Completion), 
intended  to  complete  the  Mutanif,  by  Al-Khatib  al- 
Baghdadi,  on  the  same  subject.  It  is,  according  to 
Ibn  Khallikan,  an  exceedingly  useful  and  practical  work, 
determining  the  orthography  of  proper  names,  more 
especially  in  the  study  of  the  traditions. 


228  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Abu'1-Fadl  Muhammad  ibn  Tahir  IBN  AL-QAiSARANt 
was  born  at  Jerusalem,  of  a  family  belonging  to  Cesarea 
in  Palestine,  on  i8th  December  1058  ;  but  he  finished 
his  education  at  Bagdad,  and  did  not  return  to  his  native 
town  till  after  a  prolonged  course  of  travel.  He  stayed 
for  some  time  at  Hamadhan,  where  he  taught  the  science 
of  the  traditions.  He  died  in  11 13,  at  Bagdad,  on  his 
return  from  the  Mecca  pilgrimage.  His  Kitdb  al-ansdb 
al-muttafiqa  has  been  published  by  De  Jong  under  the 
title  of  Homonyma  inter  7toinina  relatlva.  Berlin  possesses 
his  manuscript  treatise  on  falsified  traditions  ;  his  Atrdf 
al-ghard'ib  is  at  Cairo. 

Abu  Muhammad  al-Husain  AL-Farra  AL-BAGHAwf, 
born  at  Baghshur,  between  Herat  and  Merv,  died  in 
the  last-named  town  in  1116  or  1122,  after  having  com- 
piled a  book  of  traditions  {Masdbih  al-Sunna),  according 
to  the  seven  fundamental  works,  which  has  been  fre- 
quently commentated  and  abridged,  as,  for  example,  in 
the  Mishkdt  al-Masdbih  of  Muhammad  ibn  'Abdallah 
al-Khatib  al-Tabrizi,  which  is  widely  known  in  the  East, 
and  has  been  reprinted  in  India  and  in  Russia.  Another 
collection  of  traditions  {Shark  al-Sunnd),  an  epitome  of 
jurisprudence,  and  a  commentary  on  the  Koran  have 
survived  to  the  present  day. 

'Abd  al-Ghafir  ibn  Isma'il  al-FarisJ,  born  at 
Nishapijr  in  1059,  travelled  through  the  Khanate  of 
Khiva,  and  proceeded  to  India  by  Afghanistan.  He 
had  been  an  infant  prodigy.  When  only  five  years 
old  he  could  read  the  Koran,  and  recite  the  Articles 
of  the  Faith  in  Persian.  When  he  came  back  from 
his  travels,  he  was  appointed  preacher  in  his  native 
town,  and  died  there  in  1134.  To  him  we  owe  one 
of    those    Kitdb   al-Arbdtn    in    which    the    doctrines   of 


THE  'ABBASIDS  229 

Islam  are  summed  up  in  forty  selected  traditions.  A 
more  useful  work  is  his  Majmd  al-Ghardib  (Collection 
of  Curiosities),  a  dictionary  for  the  great  collections  of 
the  hadtth,  and  his  Mufhim,  a  commentary  on  Muslim's 
Sahih. 

Another  learned  traveller  born  m  Persia  was  Abu 
Tahir  AL-SlLAFt  (1082-1180),  who  went  from  Ispahan, 
where  he  was  born,  to  Bagdad  and  Alexandria.  In 
the  last-mentioned  town,  Ibn  al-Sallar,  minister  to  the 
Caliph  Zafir,  the  Fatimid,  built  him  a  madrasa,  in 
the  year  1151,  and  in  it  he  taught  till  his  death.  In 
addition  to  a  collection  of  forty  traditions  called 
al-Bulddniyya,  because  every  tradition  was  found  in  a 
different  town,  he  compiled  a  dictionary  of  the  Sheikhs 
of  Bagdad,  the  manuscript  of  which  is  now  at  the 
Escurial. 

Majd  al-din  Abu'l-Sa'adat  al-Mubarak,  the  brother  of 
Ibn  al-Athir,  the  historian,  was  born  at  Jazirat  ibn 
Umar  in  1149.  He  entered  the  service  of  the  Amir 
Qaimaz,  Prince  of  Mosul,  as  secretary,  and  improved 
his  position  under  his  successors.  At  an  advanced  age 
he  was  attacked  by  paralysis  in  his  feet  and  hands,  and 
died  in  June  1210.  The  illness  which  obliged  him  to 
quit  the  public  service  gave  him  leisure  to  dictate  and 
publish  the  books  he  has  left  behind  him.  His  satis- 
faction in  this  work,  and  his  delight  at  being  no  longer 
obliged  to  pay  court  to  great  personages,  led  him  to 
discontinue  a  course  of  treatment  which  might  have 
cured  him,  and  which  had  been  prescribed  for  him  by 
a  bone-setter  from  the  Maghrib.  He  wrote  the  Jdmi^ 
al-UsM  (Encyclopedia  of  Principles),  which  gives  the 
traditions  of  the  prophets  arranged  in  chapters  by 
alphabetical  order,  and  also   biographies  of   Mahomet 


230  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

and  his  contemporaries ;  the  Nihdya,  a  dictionary  of 
rare  and  curious  traditions  ;  the  Murassd  (Adorned 
with  Brilliants),  a  lexicon  of  the  surnames  in  Ibn 
and  Ab-A;  and  the  Mukhtdr,  biographies  of  celebrated 
Moslems. 

Muhibb  al-din  Muhammad  Ibn  al-Najjar  (1183- 
1245),  a  Shafi'ite  lawyer,  and  pupil  of  Ibn  al-Jauzi, 
born  at  Bagdad,  devoted  twenty -seven  years  of  his 
life  to  making  long  journeys.  The  learning  he  thus 
acquired  enabled  him  to  settle  in  his  native  town  as 
a  teacher  and  man  of  letters.  While  at  Medina  he 
wrote  the  Nuzha,  on  the  history  of  that  town  ;  at  a  later 
period  he  wrote  the  Kamdl,  a  collection  of  biographies 
of  the  witnesses  who  handed  down  the  traditions.  This 
has  served  as  the"  basis  for  other  treatises  of  the  same 
nature.  He  also  composed  a  supplement  {dhait)  to  Al- 
Khatib's  history  of  Bagdad,  an  abridgment  of  which, 
by  Ibn  Aibek  al-Dimyati,  is  now  at  Cairo. 

AbCt  Nu'aiM  Ahmad  AL-ISFAHANt,  a  Shafi'ite  lawyer 
(948-1038),  produced  the  Hilyat  al-anbiyd  (Ornament  of 
the  Prophets),  a  history  of  holy  and  pious  individuals 
and  of  their  miracles  ;  and  the  Tibb  al-nabi  (Medicine  of 
the  Prophet),  a  collection  of  hadiths  touching  medicine; 
and  also  a  history  of  the  learned  men  of  Ispahan,  which 
is  now  at  Leyden,  and  other  works  on  the  traditions. 

Taqi  al-din  Abu 'Amr 'Uthman  IBN  AL-Salah  (1181- 
1245),  born  at  Sharakhin,  between  Irbil  (Arbela)  and 
Hamadhan,  was  of  Kurdish  descent.  He  began  his 
studies  at  Mosul,  and  travelled  through  the  chief  towns 
in  Khurasan.  He  was  a  teacher  at  Jerusalem,  and  then 
went  to  Damascus,  where  he  finally  settled.  He  taught 
Shafi'ite  law  in  several  madrasas,  notably  in  that  just 
founded  by  Saladin's  sister,  and  died  there.     His  Aqsd 


THE  'ABBASIDS  231 

'l-amal  wdl-Shauq  (The  Liveliest  Hope  and  Desire), 
which  treats  of  the  science  of  the  ti-aditions,  has  been 
the  subject  of  many  commentaries,  and  has  furnished 
authors  with  many  extracts.  He  devoted  one  of  his 
works  to  the  examination  of  traditions  relating  to  the 
superiority  of  Alexandria  and  Ascalon  over  other  cities; 
his  collection  of  fatwds  and  his  treatise  on  the  rules  of 
the  holy  pilgrimage  are  now  at  Cairo. 

Sharaf  al-din  ABtJ'L-HASAN  Ibn  al-Mufarrij  AL-MAQDist 
(1149-1214)  was  born  on  Syro-Arabian  territory,  near 
the  Egyptian  border.  He  was  vice-judge  at  Alexandria, 
and  afterwards  taught  at  Cairo,  where  he  died.  His 
book  of  the  forty  traditions  is  remarkable  for  its  exact 
specification  of  the  date  of  each  witness,  and  for  its 
complete  isndd. 

Abu  Muhammad  'Abdal- Azim  al-Mundhir1  (1185- 
1258),  who  was  born  in  Egypt,  travelled  for  the  pur- 
pose of  study  all  through  Mecca,  Damascus,  Edessa, 
Alexandria,  and  the  surrounding  countries.  He  taught 
the  hadith  of  the  Shafi'ite  rite  for  twenty  years,  in  the 
Kamiliyya  Madrasa  at  Cairo,  and  died  in  that  city. 
His  Kitdb  al-targhib  wa  l-tarhtb  is  a  collection  of  tradi- 
tions arranged  in  such  a  fashion  that  those  which  guide 
to  what  is  right  appear  on  one  side,  and  those  which 
lead  to  the  avoidance  of  evil,  on  the  other.  His  book 
of  the  biographies  of  remarkable  traditionists  is  in  the 
British  Museum. 

In  Spain,  Abu  'Umar  Yusuf  IBN  'Abdal-Barr,  who 
was  born  at  Cordova  in  978,  studied  in  that  city, 
and  had  the  reputation  of  being  the  greatest  authority 
on  the  hadith  in  the  Maghrib.  He  travelled  for  some 
time  in  the  west  of  Spain,  and  then  settled  at  Denia, 
paying  occasional  visits  to  Valencia  and  Jativa.     Under 


23  2  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

the  rule  of  Prince  Muzaffar  ibn  al-Aftas,  King  of  Bada- 
joz,  he  was  appointed  qddt  of  Lisbon  and  Santarem. 
He  died  at  Jativa  on  3rd  February  1071.  His  Kitdb  al- 
ls ti  db  deals  with  the  biographies  of  the  companions 
of  the  Prophet :  his  Durar  (The  Pearls)  is  an  abridged 
history  of  the  wars  of  Mahomet's  times  :  his  Intiqd  is 
devoted  to  the  three  great  founders  of  the  rites,  Malik, 
Abu  Hanifa,  and  Shafi't :  his  Bahjat  al-Majdlis  is  a  col- 
lection of  proverbs,  sayings,  tales  and  poetry,  dedicated 
to  Prince  Muzaffar. 

Abu  'Abdallah  Muhammad  Ibn  Abi'l-Khisal  al- 
Ghafiqi,  born  in  1072  at  Burgalet,  a  village  in  the  district 
of  Segura,  near  Jaen,  a  poet  and  learned  man,  lived  at 
Cordova  and  at  Grenada.  He  was  appointed  to  perform 
the  duties  of  Minister  of  the  Interior  and  of  War,  and 
perished  when  Cordova  was  captured  by  the  Moravids, 
on  27th  May  1146.  His  ZiU  al-sahdb  (Shadow  of  the 
Clouds)  is  devoted  to  the  wives  and  relations  of  the 
Prophet  Mahomet.  His  Minhdj  al-mandqib  is  a  poem 
in  honour  of  the  Prophet  and  his  companions.  Docu- 
ments belonging  to  his  correspondence  and  literary 
lectures  of  his  composing  are  still  preserved  at  the 
Escurial. 

Abu'1-Fadl  'Iyad  ibn  Musa,  who  was  born  in  De- 
cember 1083,  studied  at  Cordova,  and  was  made  qddt 
at  Ceuta,  his  native  town.  He  went  on  to  Grenada  in 
the  same  capacity,  then  back  to  Morocco,  and  there  died 
in  1149.  He  wrote  a  book  which  is  celebrated  in  the 
East,  called  al-Shifd  ft  tdi-tf  huquq  al-Mustafd,  a  life 
of  Mahomet,  printed  at  Cairo,  on  which  many  com- 
mentaries have  been  written  :  al-Ihnd' ,  a  theory  of  the 
traditions,  their  sources  and  principles,  edited  by  one 
of  his  pupils  :  the  Mashdriq  al-Anwdr,  on  the  authentic 


THE  'ABBASIDS  233 

traditions  and  the  meaning  of  the  obscure  expressions 
occurring  in  them  :  al-I'ldm,  a  work  on  penal  law  :  and 
the  Tartib  al-mudhdkara,  on  the  proper  names  of  the 
Malikite  rite. 

Abu'l-' Abbas  Ahmad  ibn  Ma'add  AL-lQLfSHl,  who  was 
born  at  Denia,  studied  both  in  that  town  and  at 
Valencia.  He  took  advantage  of  his  pilgrimage  into 
Arabia  (ii47)to  spend  several  years  at  Mecca,  remaining 
there  until  1152.  While  on  his  journey  back,  he  died  at 
Qus,  in  Upper  Egypt,  in  1155.  His  Kaukab  al-Durri 
(Brilliant  Star)  is  a  collection  of  hadiths,  drawn  from  the 
great  canonical  works.  His  Najm  (Star),  a  book  on 
proverbs,  Arabic  and  foreign,  has  been  printed  at  Cairo. 

Abu  Ishaq  Ibrahim  Ibn  QuRQtJL  (1111-1173),  who 
was  born  at  Almeria  and  died  at  Fez,  considered  the 
traditions  in  his  Matdli"  al-anwdr  (Dawn  of  Light). 

Jurisprudence 

The  science  of  the  traditions,  through  the  criticism 
of  those  sayings  of  the  Prophet  which  cast  light  on  the 
points  which  the  Koran  had  left  obscure,  established 
one  of  the  bases  of  law.  Jurisprudence,  on  the  other 
hand,  was  building  up  a  very  considerable  mass  of  litera- 
ture, arising  out  of  the  numberless  difficulties  in  the 
application  of  the  simple  rules  provided  in  the  sacred 
book.  These  two  branches  of  study,  indeed,  moved  on 
abreast,  for  it  was  the  necessity  for  seeking  out  clear  and 
precise  rules,  founded  on  the  legislator's  authenticated 
deeds  or  words,  which  had  led  the  learned  to  search 
out,  collect,  and  select  traditions  which,  as  often  as 
not,  were  contradictory  in  their  bearing,  and  to  explain 

and  interpret  them  by  criticising  the  witnesses  who  had 
16 


2  34  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

handed  them  down.  When  the  judge  was  sure  of  his 
authorities,  he  felt  more  sure  of  the  legality  of  the 
sentence  he  pronounced,  and  his  conscience,  therefore, 
was  more  easy.  Yet  for  a  long  time  before  the  body  of 
opinion  divided — the  Ashdb  al-rdy  accepting  individual 
interpretation,  while  the  partisans  of  the  letter  of  the  law 
insisted  on  adherence  to  the  traditional  text  of  the  hadith 
— the  judge's  right  to  decide  according  to  his  own  lights 
had  been  recognised  by  the  law.  Probably  the  inter- 
course of  the  Arabs  with  Syrian  Christians,  who,  as  we 
have  seen,  played  a  prominent  part  at  the  Omeyyad 
Court  at  Damascus,  introduced  them  to  the  theories  of 
the  Roman  law  of  Justinian's  period,  which,  in  the  Syrian 
community,  had  survived  the  Moslem  conquest.  As  the 
ancient  works  on  Moslem  law  are  lost,  we  must  begin 
our  study  of  this  branch  of  literature  with  the  heads  of 
the  four  great  orthodox  rites — the  Hanafite,  the  Malikite, 
the  Shafi'ite,  and  the  Hanbalite. 

The  Hanafites 

The  founder  of  this  rite,  AbC  Hanifa  Numan  ibn 
Thabit  (699-767),  was  the  grandson  of  a  Persian  slave. 
He  was  born  at  Kufa,  and  plied  the  trade  of  a  cloth  mer- 
chant. Being  a  freedman,  he  proclaimed  his  sympathy 
with  the  movement  which,  supported  by  the  latent  forces 
concealed  in  Persia,  placed  the  'Abbasids  on  the  throne, 
but  his  real  feelings  were  in  favour  of  the  so-called  legiti- 
mate claim  of  the  'Alids,  and  the  trick  by  which  the 
Abbasids  filched  their  rights  from  them  must  have 
been  abhorrent  to  this  man  of  Persian  blood.  He  took 
his  share  in  the  'Alid  rising  at  Medina  in  762,  and  was 
cast  into  prison,  where  he  died.     In  later  days,  when 


THE  'ABBASIDS  23s 

men  began  to  wonder  how  it  was  that  the  'Abbasid 
Government  had  made  no  effort  to  attract  so  great  a 
teacher,  known  to  this  day  as  the  Great  Imam,  to  its  own 
side,  a  legend  was  built  up,  and  it  was  said  that  Caliph 
Mansur  tried  to  force  him  to  accept  a  post  as  qddt,  and 
that  it  was  the  rough  treatment  he  received  when  he  re- 
fused this  office  which  brought  about  his  death.  He  had 
sat  at  the  feet  of  Hammad  ibn  Abi  Sulaiman,  who  died 
about  737.  From  him  he  had  learnt  the  system  of  the 
qiyds,  the  application  of  analogy  in  matters  of  jurispru- 
dence, which  has  continued  to  be  the  rule  of  this  school. 
The  following  books  are  attributed  to  Abu  Hanifa  :  the 
Kitdb  al-Fiqh  al-Akbar  (Great  Book  on  Dogmatics) — it 
was  at  a  later  date  'CnzS.fiqh  began  to  signify  jurisprudence 
— which  was  printed  at  Lucknow  in  1844,  with  a  Hin- 
dustani translation  ;  a  Musnad,  collected  by  his  pupils  ; 
a  Wasiyya,  or  Last  Testament,  dealing  with  the  dogmas 
of  Islamism,  and  addressed  to  his  friends ;  and  a  Mak- 
hdrij  fil-hiyal,  devoted  to  the  study  of  legal  quibbles. 
The  greater  number  of  Abu  Ha-nif^'s  works  were  pro- 
bably edited  by  his  grandson,  Ismail  ibn  Hammad,  qddi 
of  Bassora  and  Raqqa,  who  died  in  827. 

Abu  Hanifa  left  a  pupil  named  AbIJ  Yusuf  (Yaqub 
ibn  Ibrahim)  (731-795),  surnamed  the  Second  Imam, 
who  was  born  at  Kiifa,  of  an  old  Arab  family.  He 
was  appointed  qddt  of  Bagdad  by  Caliph  Mahdi,  and 
held  that  post  till  he  died.  Although  he  had  put 
his  master's  doctrines  into  practice,  he  began  to  rebel 
against  the  use  of  personal  reasoning,  and  to  allow  greater 
weight,  in  the  decision  of  doubtful  cases,  to  the  traditions 
of  the  Prophet  than  to  analogy,  on  which  Abu  Hanifa 
very  largely  relied.  His  Kitdb  al- K hardj  (^ook  on  the 
Land-Tax)  has  been  printed  at  Bulaq. 


236  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Abu  Yusuf,  in  his  turn,  had  a  pupil,  Muhammad  ibn 
al-Hasan  al-Shaibani,  who  was  born  at  Wasit  in 
749.  After  having  travelled  to  Medina,  to  draw  know- 
ledge of  the  traditions  on  which  the  study  of  the  law  is 
based  at  the  fountain-head — from  the  teachings  of  Malik 
ibn  Anas — he  was  appointed  qddi  of  Raqqa.  He  was 
dismissed  in  802,  and  afterwards  lived  at  Bagdad,  till  he 
went  with  Hirun  al-Rashid  in  804  to  Rai,  where  he 
died. 

At  a  later  date  we  find  Al-Khassaf  (Abu  Bakr), 
who  lost  his  library  when  his  house  was  sacked  by  the 
Turkish  soldiery  after  the  assassination  of  the  Caliph 
al-Muhtadi ;  an  Egyptian,  Al-Tahawi  (Abu  Jafar),  of 
Taha  (843-933) ;  a  Bukharian,  Al-Marwazi,  minister  to 
the  Sasinian  Prince  Hamid,  who  fell  into  the  hands 
of  Turkomans,  and  was  drawn  and  quartered  by  them, 
in  945 ;  Al-Quduri  of  Bagdad  (Abu'l-Husain)  (972- 
1036),  who  wrote  an  abridged  manual  which  bears  his 
name,  and  is  frequently  consulted,  even  in  our  own  days 
— all  of  them  lights  of  the  Hanafite  sect. 

The  Malikites 

The  Malikites  take  their  name  from  their  founder, 
Abu  'Abdallah  Malik  ibn  Anas,  who  was  born  at 
Medina  in  715.  He  was  taught  by  the  traditionist 
Al-Zuhri,  was  a  strong  partisan  of  the  'Alids,  helped, 
by  a  fatwd,  Muhammad  ibn  'Abdallah's  revolt  against 
the  'Abbasids  in  762,  submitted,  at  a  later  date,  to 
the  Bagdad  Government,  and  beheld  Caliph  HS.run 
attending  his  lessons  as  a  student,  on  the  occasion 
of  his  pilgrimage  in  795.  His  Kitdb  al-Muwatta  is 
founded  on  the  ijmd''  of   Medina — in   other  words,  the 


THE  'ABBASIDS  237 

unanimous  agreement  of  the  dwellers  in  that  town  as 
to  the  accepted  traditions  and  customs.  He  settles 
many  doubtful  cases,  in  the  absence  of  any  traditional 
basis,  by  the  decisions  of  the  judges  who  came  before 
him  and  the  proved  custom  of  Medina.  Malik  took  no 
pains  to  leave  his  pupils  a  revised  and  co-ordinated 
text,  and  this  must  explain  the  considerable  variations 
in  the  different  recensions  of  his  book — those,  for  in- 
stance, of  the  Spaniard  YahyA  al-Masmudi,  and  of 
Muhammad  al-Shaibani,  whom  we  have  lately  men- 
tioned as  attending  Malik's  lessons  at  Medina. 

His  disciple,  'Abdal-Rahman  ibn  al-Qasim  (719-806), 
spread  and  popularised  Malik's  teaching  in  the  Maghrib, 
where,  as  my  readers  know,  it  has  continued  dominant 
till  the  present  day.  The  whole  of  Algeria  is  Malikite. 
He  died  in  Cairo.  Under  the  title  of  Kitdb  al-Mudaw- 
wana  he  left  a  manual  of  Malikite  law,  originally  drawn 
up  by  Asad  ibn  al-Furat,  and  consisting  of  Ibn  al- 
Qasim's  answers  to  his  questions,  afterwards  revised, 
corrected,  and  amended  by  Sahnun  Abu  Sa'id  al- 
Tanukhi,  qddi  of  Qairawan. 

Among  the  most  important  Malikite  doctors  of  these 
periods,  Ibn  Abi  Zaid  of  Qairawan,  who  was  born  at 
Nafza  in  Spain  in  928,  lived  in  Tunis,  and  died  at  Fez 
in  Morocco  about  980,  must  be  mentioned. 

The  Shafi'ites 

The  Imam  Al-Shafi'i  (Muhammad  ibn  Idris)  (767- 
820),  founder  of  the  Shafi'ite  rite,  was  born  at  Gaza 
(some  say  at  Ascalon,  or  even  in  Yemen),  lived  till 
manhood  in  the  Bedouin  tribe  of  the  Beni-Hudhail, 
aad  thus  acquired  the  pure  classic  Arabic.     To  him  the 


238  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

grammarian  AI-Asma'i  applied,  at  Mecca,  to  obtain 
the  poems  of  tiie  Hudhailites  and  of  Shanfara.  In 
786  we  see  him  proceed  to  Medina  and  listen  to  the 
teachings  of  Malik.  Having  accompanied  his  uncle, 
Abu  Musab,  who  had  been  appointed  qddi  in  Yemen, 
he  became  compromised  by  the  intrigues  of  the  'Alid 
party,  and  was  brought  before  the  Caliph  Harun  at 
Raqqa.  He  was  saved  by  the  intervention  of  the 
minister  Fadl  ibn  Rabi'.  He  took  advantage  of  this 
enforced  presence  at  court  to  attend  the  teachings  of 
Muhammad  al-Shaibani.  In  804  he  went  on  into  Egypt, 
was  well  received  by  the  governor  of  the  province, 
returned  at  a  later  date  to  Bagdad,  and  seems  to 
have  been  successful  in  teaching  his  doctrine,  which 
differed  in  many  particulars  from  that  of  his  prede- 
cessors. He  started  on  his  way  back  to  Egypt  in 
813,  and  died  there,  after  having  made  a  pilgrimage 
to  Mecca,  at  Fustat  or  Old  Cairo,  on  20th  January  820. 
His  tomb  is  a  favourite  place  of  pilgrimage  at  the 
present  day.  Shafi'i  resumed  Abu  Hanifa's  analogical 
system,  and  reduced  it  to  practical  rules.  Of  the  hun- 
dred and  nine  works  he  produced,  none  now  remain, 
save  a  few  as  yet  unpublished  manuscripts,  scattered 
about  the  libraries  of  Cairo  and  Constantinople,  and 
some  poems  in  those  of  Leyden  and  Berlin. 

The  Shafi'ite  School  in  Egypt  claims  Al-Muzani 
(Abu  Ibrahim),  who  died  in  877,  the  author  of  an 
abridged  version  of  the  doctrines  of  the  master  Al- 
Mundhiri  of  Nishdpur,  who  lived  at  Mecca,  and  died 
there  in  930  ;  Al-Zubairi  (Abu  'Abdallah),  who  carried 
the  teachings  of  the  Shafi'ite  rite  to  Bassora  and 
Bagdad ;  Ibn  al-Qass,  or  the  Son  of  the  Story-teller 
(Abu'I- Abbas),  who  taught  at  Amul  in  Tabarist^n,  and 


THE   'ABBASIDS  239 

died  at  Tarsus  in  Cilicia,  whither  he  had  journeyed 
(946) — or,  as  others  assert,  where  he  performed  the 
duties  of  qddi ;  Al-Qattan  (Abu'l-Hasan),  a  professor  of 
law  at  Bagdad,  who  died  in  970 ;  AI-Mahamili,  who 
studied  at  Bagdad  under  pupils  of  Al-Shifi'i,  taught 
there  himself,  and  died  there  in  1024 ;  also  Al-Lalaka'i, 
the  sandal-maker  (Abu'l-Qasim  Hibat  Allah),  who  studied 
and  taught  in  the  same  town,  removing  at  a  later 
date  to  Dinawar  in  Iraq  'Ajami,  where  he  died  in 
1027. 

The  Hanbalites 

Ibn  Hanbal  (Ahmad  ibn  Muhammad)  (780-855)  was 
born  at  Bagdad  ;  his  parents  belonged  to  Merv,  which 
place  they  quitted  a  short  time  before  his  birth.  Like 
all  the  traditionists  of  his  period,  he  travelled  in  Syria, 
Mesopotamia,  and  in  the  Arabian  Peninsula,  where  he 
made  some  stay.  He  returned  to  Bagdad,  where  he 
sat  at  the  feet  of  Al-Shafi't  until  that  master  departed 
to  Egypt.  He  founded  the  fourth  orthodox  sect,  which 
differs  from  the  others  more  especially  in  that  its  founder 
totally  refused  to  accept  the  personal  elucidation  of  any 
lawyer,  and  would  admit  no  basis  for  the  law  save  the 
traditions  of  the  Prophet,  to  the  exclusion  of  all  others. 
This  was  a  reaction  which  had  little  effect  either  in  time 
or  space,  for  it  made  but  few  proselytes  beyond  the  pro- 
vince of  its  birth,  and  has  now  almost  completely  died 
out.  A  few  of  its  adherents  still  exist  at  Damascus, 
where  they  may  be  distinguished  from  their  brother- 
Moslems  by  the  fact  that  they  will  not  eat  the  produce  of 
kitchen  gardens  fertilised  by  the  water  which  has  passed 
through  sewers.  The  Hanbalites  were  remarkable  for 
their  fanaticism,  and  caused  a  great  deal  of  disturbance 


240  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

in  Bagdad  when  the  power  of  the  Caliphs  began  to 
wane.  When  the  Caliph  Al-Mutasim  adopted  the 
Mutazilite  doctrine  of  the  creation  of  the  Koran,  Ibn 
Hanbal  was  one  of  the  victims  of  the  persecution 
which  ensued.  He  was  cast  into  prison,  and  remained 
there  till  Mu  tasim's  death  in  842  ;  but  Wathiq  would 
not  allow  him  to  leave  his  own  house,  in  which  he  was 
shut  up ;  he  regained  his  liberty  when,  from  purely 
political  motives,  Al-Mutawakkil  returned  to  orthodoxy. 
Ibn  Hanbal  died  on  31st  August  855,  leaving  a  Musnad 
or  collection  of  traditions  arranged  by  his  son  'Abdallah, 
and  various  works,  all  of  them  in  manuscript. 

Most  of  the  books  written  by  Ibn  Hanbal's  pupils 
have  disappeared.  The  only  ones  we  can  mention  are 
an  epitome  of  jurisprudence  by  Al-Khiraqi,  who  died  at 
Damascus  in  945,  on  his  way  from  Bagdad,  which  city 
he  had  left  on  account  of  popular  disturbances  there — ■ 
his  works  were  lost  in  a  fire  after  his  departure  ;  and  the 
Tahdhib  al-ajwiba,  a  book  written  by  Abu  'Abdallah  al- 
Hasan  ibn  Humaid  al-Baghdadi,  containing  answers  to 
questions  on  legal  subjects,  which  is  now  preserved  at 
Berlin. 

The  Zahirites 

Other  and  less  important  sects  sprang  from  the  study 
of  jurisprudence  in  which  so  many  enlightened  intellects 
were  absorbed.  The  Zahirite  School,  our  knowledge 
of  which  we  owe  to  the  fine  studies  of  it  by  Herr  I. 
Goldziher,  was  founded  by  Abu  Sulaiman  Da'ud  ibn 
'All  (815-883),  whose  family  belonged  to  Ispahan,  but 
who  was  born  at  Kufa.  He  studied  under  the  most 
famous  traditionists  of  Bagdad,  and  knew  Ishiq  ibn 
Rahawaih  when  he  was  at  Nishapur.     He  himself  taught 


THE  'ABBASIDS  241 

with  brilliant  success  at  Bagdad,  where  he  died.  The 
school  he  founded  utterly  repudiated  any  analogy,  or 
quotation  on  the  authority  of  any  imam,  and  insisted 
on  the  external  meaning  (hence  the  name  borne  by  this 
doctrine,  Zdhir)  of  the  Koran  and  the  traditions.  This 
doctrine  spread  over  Persia,  India,  and  'Uman,  more 
especially  amongst  the  mystics.  Yet  it  had  no  lengthy 
vogue  in  the  East,  though  at  a  later  date  it  flourished 
in  the  Maghrib  and  in  Spain,  and  many  works  on  its 
tenets  were  produced. 

Besides  these  great  leaders  of  schools,  we  must  also 
mention  Yahyi  ibn  Sulaiman,  born  in  818,  who  gave  his 
attention  to  legal  subjects,  without  attaching  himself  to 
any  particular  school,  and  wrote  a  book  on  the  land-tax, 
the  text  of  which  has  been  published  at  Leyden  by 
Juynboll ;  and  the  famous  historian  Tabari,  who  com- 
bined the  study  of  jurisprudence  with  that  of  Koranic 
exegesis,  and  whose  pupil,  Abu'l-Faraj  al-Muafa  ibn 
Zakariya  of  Nahrawan  (915-1000),  wrote  the  Kitdb  al- 
Jalts  (Book  of  the  Habitual  Guest),  a  summary  of  ex- 
planations as  to  various  sayings  of  the  Prophet  and  his 
companions,  in  the  form  of  a  hundred  lectures. 

The  Shi'ites 

Outside  the  circle  formed  by  the  four  great  orthodox 
sects,  and  the  other  schools  of  the  same  nature,  the 
Shi'ites  were  in  process  of  evolving  a  jurisprudence  we 
must  now  consider,  though  but  few  ancient  vestiges  of  it 
remain.  In  the  province  of  Yemen,  the  Zaidite  sect, 
which  had  taken  possession  of  that  country  in  the 
second  century  of  the  Hegira,  and  is  still  dominant  there, 
reckoned  among   its  teachers  :    Al-Qasim   ibn   Ibrahim 


242  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

al-Hasani,  who  died  in  860 ;  his  grandson,  AI-Hadi  Ila'l- 
Haqq  (He  who  guides  to  the  Truth)  Abu'1-Husain 
Yahya  (859-910) ;  another  descendant  of  his,  Al-Mahdi 
Lidinillah  (He  who  is  guided  towards  the  Religion  of 
God)  al-Husain  ibn  al-Qisim,  who  died  in  1013  ;  the 
Imam  AI-Mu'ayyad-Billah  Ahmad  ibn  al-Husain  (944- 
1020).  The  works  of  these  writers,  formerly  unknown 
to  European  students,  have  been  brought  back  from 
Yemen  by  Herr  Glaser,  and  are  now  in  the  Berlin 
Library. 

In  Persia,  where  the  Shi'ite  School  of  thought  was 
always  mixed  up  with  the  feeling  for  national  revenge, 
we  may  mention:  Abu  Jafar  al-Qummi  (died  in  903),. 
author  of  a  collection  of  Shi'ite  traditions  ;  Al-Kulini 
(Muhammad  ibn  Ya'qub),  died  in  939,  who  wrote  a 
theological  treatise  under  the  title  oi  al-Kdft  ft^ Urn  al-din 
(That  which  is  Adequate  in  the  Knowledge  of  Re- 
ligion) ;  Abu  Ja'far  Ibn  Babuya  of  Qum,  who  came  to 
Bagdad  out  of  Khurasan  in  966,  and  died  there  in  991 
— several  of  his  many  works  (over  three  hundred  in 
number)  are  in  Europe  ;  Al-Nu  man  Ibn  Hayyan,  who 
forsook  the  Malikite  sect  to  become  an  Imamite,  went 
to  Egypt  with  the  Fatimid  conqueror  Al-Muizz,  was 
appointed  qddi,  and  died  there  in  974 ;  and  Abu 
"Abdallah  al-Mufid  of  Bagdad  (949-1022). 

Further  Development  of  Jurisprudence 

Amongst  the  host  of  authors  who  expounded  the  prin- 
ciples laid  down  in  the  preceding  centuries,  we  can  only 
mention  the  chief. 

'All  ibn  Abi  Bakr  al-MarghInanI,  who  died  in  1197, 
wrote    a    manual  for    scholars    beginning  the    study    of 


THE  'ABBASIDS  243 

Hanafite  law,  called  Biddyat  ai-Mubtadt,  on  which  he  him- 
self produced  a  commentary  under  the  name  of  Hiddya 
(The  Guidance)  ;  the  Persian  translation  of  this  latter 
work  was  rendered  into  English  by  Charles  Hamilton 
(1791).  The  Hiddya  has  been  commentated  by  Persian, 
Turkish,  and  Arabic  writers,  and  has  had  the  greatest 
success  that  could  be  desired  for  any  manual  of  Moslem 
law. 

Sirij  al-din  Abu  Tahir  Muhammad  AL-SAJAWANDt, 
who  flourished  toward  the  end  of  the  sixth  century  of 
the  Hegira,  wrote  a  Kitdb  al-Fard'id,  or  Treatise  on  the 
Division  of  Inheritances,  which  was  surnamed  Sirdjiyya 
after  its  author's  own  surname.  This  was  translated 
into  English  in  1885,  by  Prasauma  Kumar  Sen,  at 
Serampore,  and  in  1890,  by  A.  Rumsey,  in  London. 

The  Shifi'ite  rite  glories  in  the  possession  of  Abu'l- 
Hasan  'Alt  ibn  Muhammad  al-Maward!  (974-1058), 
who  was  born  at  Bassora,  studied  in  his  native  town  and 
at  Bagdad,  acted  for  some  time  as  Grand  Qadi  at  Ustuwa 
near  Nishapur,  and  finally  settled  down  at  Bagdad,  where 
he  was  appointed  Chief  Justice.  His  works  were  not 
published  during  his  own  lifetime  ;  they  were  ultimately 
given  to  the  world  by  some  pupil  of  his.  His  chief  work 
is  the  Kitdb  al-ahkdm  al-sultdniyya,  published  at  Bonn,  in 
1853,  by  Enger.  This  is  a.  treatise  on  politics,  which 
defines  the  ideal  of  Moslem  government  as  conceived  by 
the  lawyers  of  that  day — one  which  has  been  but  little 
attained,  a  kind  of  model  society,  such  as  has  never 
really  existed,  much  like  Plato's  Republic  and  Xenophon's 
Cyropaedeia.  The  abstract  definition  of  the  Caliphate, 
the  qualities  indispensable  for  the  exercise  of  the  supreme 
power,  the  study  of  the  various  methods  of  election,  the 
limits  of  the  executive  power  of  viziers  and  governors  of 


244  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

provinces — these  are  the  most  interesting  of  the  points 
dealt  with  by  the  Moslem  thinker.  A  French  translation 
of  the  book,  one  volume  of  which  has  already  appeared, 
has  been  made  by  Count  Louis  Ostrorog.  Besides  this 
famous  treatise,  Al-Mawardi  wrote  a  book  of  advice  to 
sovereigns,  another  on  the  rules  to  be  observed  by  their 
ministers,  a  treatise  on  politics  and  government  called 
Tasini  al-Nazar  wa-ta'jil  al-Zafa?'  (The  Means  of  Facili- 
tating Reflection  and  Gaining  Swift  Victory),  another 
on  the  signs  of  prophecy  {aldm  al-nubuwwd),  a  collec- 
tion of  proverbs  and  sayings,  and  a  treatise  on  morals 
{addb  al-dunya  wal-din),  printed  at  Constantinople  and 
Cairo,  and  still  used  in  the  schools  of  the  first-named 
city. 

Ab1>  Ishaq  Ibrahim  ibn  Ali  al-ShirazI  (1003- 
1083)  was  born  at  Firuz-Abad,  near  Shiraz.  He  went 
to  Bassora  and  thence  to  Bagdad.  He  was  placed  at  the 
head  of  the  Nizamiyya  University  when  that  establish- 
ment was  founded  by  the  illustrious  Nizam  al-Mulk,  the 
great  minister  of  the  Seljuqids,  in  1066.  He  began  by 
refusing  the  office,  but  finally,  pressed  by  his  pupils, 
who  threatened  to  leave  him  unless  he  transported  the 
scene  of  his  teaching  to  the  new  school,  he  agreed  to 
accept  it.  He  journeyed  to  Nishapur  as  the  envoy  of  the 
Caliph  Al-Muqtadi,  and,  thanks  to  his  renown  as  a 
teacher  and  writer,  his  journey  was  a  triumphal  march. 
He  died  very  soon  after  his  return,  on  6th  November 
1083.  Y\\%  Muhadhdhab  {<Zovx&QXt6.  Book)  is  a  treatise  on 
Shafiite  law,  as  is  also  his  Kitdb  al-Tanbih  (Book  of 
Advice),  published  at  Leyden  in  1853  by  H.  Keijzer. 
Other  works  by  him,  on  jurisprudence,  dialectics,  the 
Moslem  catechism,  and  the  history  of  the  learned  men 
of  the  Shift  ite  sect,  are  less  well  known. 


THE  'ABBASIDS  245 

When  Abu  Ishiq  first  refused  to  act  as  head  of  the 
Nizamiyya  in  1067,  his  place  was  taken,  though  for  a 
very  short  time,  seeing  that  Abu  Ishiq  reconsidered  his 
refusal  within  three  weeks,  by  Abu  Nasr  'Abdal-Sayyid 
IBN  al-Sabbagh.  He  was  born  at  Bagdad  in  1009.  He 
had  a  second  opportunity  of  filling  the  professorial  chair 
which  had  once  slipped  through  his  fingers,  but  his  sight 
failed,  and  he  was  forced  to  give  up  all  teaching  work. 
He  waited  on  the  minister  Nizam  al-Mulk  at  Ispahan, 
and  obtained  his  promise  that  a  school  should  be  built 
expressly  for  him,  but  died  three  days  after  his  re- 
turn, in  1084.  The  Shdmil fV I  furit  (Complete  Treatise 
on  Jurisprudence),  the  only  one  of  his  works  we  now 
possess,  is  at  Cairo  ;  it  is,  according  to  native  critics, 
not  only  one  of  the  best  of  the  treatises  on  ShAfi'ite  law, 
but  one  containing  the  most  authentic  traditions  and  the 
most  conclusive  arguments. 

Abu'l-Maali'Abdal-Malik  al-JuwainI  Imam  al-Hara- 
MAIN  was  born  at  Bushtaniqan,  near  Nishapur,  on 
12th  February  1028.  On  the  death  of  his  father,  Abu 
Muhammed  'Abdallah  ibn  Yusuf,  who  was  a  teacher 
in  the  latter  town,  he  took  his  place,  though  barely 
twenty  years  of  age.  Nevertheless,  to  complete  his  own 
studies,  and  make  the  sacred  pilgrimage,  he  went  to 
Bagdad,  and  thence  to  the  two  holy  cities,  Mecca  and 
Medina,  where  he  taught  for  four  years,  hence  his  sur- 
name. When  he  returned  to  Nishapijr,  Nizam  al-Mulk 
founded  a  school  for  him,  in  which  he  gave  courses  of 
lessons  till  his  death,  which  overtook  him  on  20th 
August  1085,  while  on  a  visit  to  his  native  village, 
whither  he  had  gone  in  the  hope  of  recovering  from  an 
illness.  Along  with  his  professorial  duties,  he  had  dis- 
charged  those  of  a  preacher.      At  Nishapur,  he  held 


246  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

gatherings  every  Friday,  at  which  he  preached  sermons, 
and  presided  over  discussions  on  various  doctrinal 
points  :  to  these  occupations  he  added  that  of  managing 
the  waqfs,  or  landed  property  devoted  to  the  support  of 
pious  undertakings.  For  more  than  thirty  years  he  con- 
tinued in  undisputed  possession  of  these  various  posts. 
When  he  died,  the  mourning  was  general ;  the  great 
pulpit  of  the  Mosque  from  which  he  had  delivered  his 
sermons  was  broken  up,  and  his  pupils,  to  the  number 
of  four  hundred  and  one,  destroyed  their  pens  and  ink- 
horns,  and  gave  up  all  their  studies  for  a  year.  His 
masterpiece  is  his  Nihdyat  al-Mailab  (Satisfactory  Results 
of  Inquiry),  a  treatise  on  Shafi'ite  doctrine,  of  which  it 
was  said  that  Islam  had  never  produced  its  equal  :  the 
manuscript  is  preserved  at  Cairo.  His  al-  Waraqdt  (The 
Leaves),  on  the  principles  of  law,  has  been  the  subject  of 
many  commentators  :  his  Mughtth  al-Khalq  is  intended 
to  demonstrate  the  superiority  of  the  Shafi'ite  doctrine 
over  all  others. 

Abu'l-Mahasin  Abd  al-Wahid  al-Ruyani,  a  Shafi'ite 
doctor,  who  was  born  in  Tabaristan  in  February  1025, 
was  one  of  the  victims  of  the  Assassins,  who  were  then 
terrifying  the  Moslem  world  by  their  active  form  of 
propaganda.  The  great  minister  of  the  Seljuqids 
honoured  him  with  his  special  favour,  on  account  of  his 
eminent  merits.  After  having  lived  for  some  time  at 
Bukhara,  the  doctor  travelled  to  Ghazna  and  Nishapur, 
then  returned  to  his  native  country,  and  founded  a 
school  in  the  capital,  Amul.  At  a  later  date  he  taught 
both  at  Rai  and  at  Ispahan.  His  Bahr  al-Madhhab  (Sea 
of  Doctrine)  is  the  most  voluminous  treatise  on  ShS.fi'ite 
jurisprudence  in  existence  :  it  is  now  at  Cairo.  The 
author  was  in  the  habit  of  saying  :   "  If  all  the  Imam 


THE   'ABBASIDS  247 

Shafi'i's  works  were  to  be  burnt,  I  could  dictate  them 
from  memory."  In  1108,  just  as  he  had  concluded  one 
of  his  lessons,  he  was  murdered  at  Amul  by  the  fanatics, 
who  were  then  holding  the  castle  of  Alamut,  in  the 
neighbouring  mountains. 

Abu'l-Hasan  'AlI  al-Kiya  al-Harras1  (1058-1110) 
was  also  born  in  Tabaristan.  He  studied  at  Nishapur 
under  the  Imam  al-Haramain,  who  made  him  his  assis- 
tant, taught  himself  at  Baihaq,  and  then  at  Bagdid, 
where  he  entered  the  Nizamiyya  School,  with  which  he 
maintained  his  connection  all  the  rest  of  his  life.  The 
Seljuqid  Sultan,  Barkyiruq,  son  of  Malik-Shah,  who 
highly  esteemed  him,  appointed  him  chief  qddi.  He  was 
a  fine-looking  man,  with  a  clear  voice,  and  expressed 
himself  in  polished  language.  His  surname  Kiyd  is  a 
Persian  word  signifying  "  personage  of  high  rank  and 
great  influence."  His  UsM al-diniVxincv^X^i,  of  Religion) 
and  his  Ahkdni  al- Quran  (Judgments  of  the  Koran)  are 
now  at  Cairo. 

AbO  Bakr  Muhammad  al-Shash1,  surnamed  Fakhr 
al-Islam,  and  generally  known  under  the  name  of  Mus- 
tazhiri  (1037-1114),  was  born  at  Mayyafariqin,  of  a 
family  belonging  to  Shash,  a  town  in  Turkestan,  north 
of  the  Yaxartes  or  Sir-Darya.  After  having  studied  in 
his  native  town,  he  went  on  to  Bagdad  and  NishApur, 
and  then  returned  to  the  'Abbasid  capital,  where,  in 
1 1 10,  he  was  appointed  professor  at  the  Nizamiyya,  a 
post  he  held  till  his  death.  His  Hilyat  al-Ulamd  (Orna- 
ment of  the  Wise)  is  a  treatise  on  Shafi'ite  law,  dedicated 
to  the  Caliph  Mustazhir. 

Abu  Shuja  IBN  al-Dahhan  was  born  at  Bagdad, 
where  he  acquired  a  huge  mass  of  information,  not  only 
on    legal   subjects,  but   in    various   fields    of   literature, 


248  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

and  even  of  mathematics,  which  last  was  of  service  to 
him  for  the  calculations  connected  with  the  division  of 
inheritances.  He  first  of  all  attached  himself,  at  Mosul, 
to  the  service  of  the  minister  Jamal  al-din  al-Isfahani, 
and  afterwards  passed  over  to  Saladin,  who  gave  him  a 
Government  post  at  Mayyafariqin.  Not  being  able  to 
work  with  his  superior,  the  governor  of  the  town,  he 
proceeded  to  Damascus  and  to  Egypt,  seeking  a  more 
suitable  employment.  He  made  the  pilgrimage  in  1193. 
On  his  way  back,  close  to  Hilla,  on  the  site  of  ancient 
Babylon,  his  camel  fell,  and  he  was  killed  by  the  blow 
he  received  from  its  wooden  saddle  (February  1194).  It 
was  said  of  him  that  his  pen  was  more  eloquent  than 
his  tongue.  His  close  acquaintance  with  the  use  of 
astronomical  tables  led  him  to  draw  up  legal  tables, 
which  he  collected  into  a  volume  called  Taqwim  al- 
Nasar  (The  Calendar  at  a  Glance) ;  these  tables  are 
divided  into  ten  columns,  indicating  the  different 
points  of  view  from  w^hich  the  orthodox  rites  may  be 
considered,  and  the  solutions  of  them  therein  provided. 

Towards  the  close  of  the  sixth  century  of  the  Hegira, 
another  Abu  Shuja'  Ahmad  al-Isfahan!  wrote  an 
epitome  of  Shafi'ite  law,  entitled  Taqrib ;  it  was  pub- 
lished at  Leyden,  by  Keijzer,  in  1859.  The  Fath  al-Qarid 
by  Muhammad  ibn  al-Oasim  al-Ghazzi,  published  and 
translated  by  Van  den  Berg,  under  the  title  of  Revelation 
of  the  Omnip7-esent,  is  a  commentary  on  the  above  work. 

In  the  town  of  Amid,  now  known  as  Diyarbakr,  was 
born  Saif  al-din  'All  AL-Amid1  (i  156-1233),  who  at  first 
belonged  to  the  Hanbalite  rite,  but  joined  the  Shafi'ites 
at  Bagdad.  He  studied  philosophy  in  Syria,  and  taught 
at  Cairo.  He  was  accused  of  heresy,  atheism,  and 
immorality,  on    account   of  his    philosophical    learning, 


"THE  'ABBASIDS  249 

and  was  obliged  to  flee  to  Hamat,  where  his  books 
were  written  :  notwithstanding  this,  he  was  recalled  to 
Damascus  as  a  professor,  but  again  dismissed  after  a 
time.  He  wrote  the  Abkdr  al-Afkdr  (Virgin  Thoughts), 
a  treatise  on  dogmatic  philosophy,  and  the  Ihkdm  al- 
Hukkdm,  dealing  with  the  bases  of  judicial  decisions. 

ABtJ  Zakariya  Yahya  ibn  Sharaf  al-NawawI  (1233- 
1278),  who  was  born  at  Nawa  near  Damascus,  in  the 
Hauran,  studied  theology  in  the  Syrian  capital,  where  he 
settled  as  a  private  individual  when  he  returned  from 
the  pilgrimage  in  1253.  He  filled  Abu  Shama's  place 
when  he  died,  and  was  his  successor  at  the  Ashrafiyya 
School  of  the  hadtth.  He  died  in  his  native  town, 
whither  he  had  gone  to  recruit  after  his  heavy  labours, 
on  22nd  December  1278.  His  Minhdj  al-tdlibtn  was 
translated  and  published  in  1884,  by  Van  den  Berg, 
at  Batavia,  by  order  of  the  Netherlands  Government, 
under  the  title  of  Guide  to  Fervent  Believers,  a  manual 
of  Moslem  jurisprudence  according  to  the  Shafi'ite  rite. 
Many  commentaries  have  been  written  on  this  work,  an 
honour  also  bestowed  on  the  same  author's  Collection  of 
Foi'ly  Traditiotzs.  His  study  of  jurisprudence  led  him  to 
draw  up,  with  the  object  of  establishing  the  orthography 
of  the  names  of  the  authors  quoted  in  the  texts,  the 
Tahdhlb  al-asmd  (Correction  of  Proper  Names),  published 
at  Gottingen  in  1842-1847,  by  F.  Wiistenfeld,  under  the 
title  of  Biographical  Dictionary  of  Illustrious  Men.  His 
Taqrib  wa-Taisir  (Study  Facilitated),  an  introduction  to 
the  study  of  the  traditions,  printed  at  Cairo  in  1890, 
with  Suyuti's  commentary  (entitled  Tadrib'),  has  been 
translated  into  French  by  Marcais.  A  score  of  other 
works  by  Al-Nawawi  are  to  be  found  in  various 
European  and  Eastern  libraries. 
17 


2  50  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

To  balance  all  these  names,  the  Hanbalites  can  only 
bring  forward  that  of  MuWAFFAQ  AL-DiN  'Abdallah  Ibn 
Qudama  AL-Maqdis!  (1146-1223),  born  at  Jamma'il  in 
Palestine,  who  studied  at  Bagdad,  and  wrote  a  treatise 
on  Hanbalite  law  called  al-Muqni  (That  which  Satisfies), 
and  other  works,  of  which  twelve  manuscripts  at  least 
still  exist.  His  nephew  Abu'l  -  Faraj  'Abdal  -  Rahman 
(i 200-1 283),  who  was  born  at  Damascus,  was  his  pupil, 
became  a  preacher  and  teacher  in  the  school  of  the 
traditions,  and  was  chosen  qddi  of  the  Hanbalite  rite, 
when  special  judges  for  each  of  the  orthodox  rites  were 
appointed,  in  1265.  He  founded  a  school  which  bore 
his  name.  Piya  al-din  Muhammad  ibn  'Abdal-Wahid 
al-Dimashqi,  who  was  born  at  Dar  al-Mubarak  in  1173, 
studied  in  Egypt,  at  Bagdad,  and  at  Hamadhan.  He 
returned  to  Damascus  in  1203,  started  again  on  a  long 
jouimey  which  took  him  as  far  as  Merv,  and  ended  by 
accomplishing  the  pilgrimage.  He  died  in  1245,  leaving 
a  treatise  on  the  medical  science  of  the  Prophet,  which 
is  now  in  Paris,  and  a  Fadd'il  al-A'mdl  (Merits  of  the 
Works),  which  specially  treats  of  the  merit  to  be  acquired 
by  use  of  the  peculiar  litanies  of  the  Dervishes.  He 
built  a  school  to  which  he  left  his  library,  but  this  was 
sacked  and  dispersed  at  a  later  date. 

In  Spain,  the  Zahirite  doctrine  had  found  its  great 
protagonist  in  the  person  of  Abu  Muhammad  'Al!  Ibn 
Hazm,  a  man  of  Persian  extraction,  son  of  an  important 
official  at  Cordova,  where  he  was  born  on  7th  November 
994,  in  the  Oriental  quarter  of  the  city,  called  at  that  time 
Munyat  al-Mughira.  He  followed  the  same  Government 
career  as  had  his  father  before  him,  and  in  spite  of  his 
avowed  and  complete  indifference  to  worldly  success, 
rose  to  the  rank  of  vizier.    He  gradually  withdrew  himself 


THE  'ABBASIDS  251 

from  the  Sh^fi'ite  School  of  the  traditions,  and  attended 
the  lessons  of  Da'ud  the  Zahirite,  from  whom  he  first 
gathered  the  "  principles  according  to  dogmatism" — 
that  is  to  say,  the  adoption,  pure  and  simple,  of  the 
exoteric  meaning  of  the  text,  without  any  explanation  by 
analogy,  nor  the  authority  of  a  juris peritus.  He  wrote 
many  books,  which  enlightened  but  a  few  pupils.  The 
acrimony  of  his  attacks  earned  him  many  enemies,  who 
avenged  themselves  by  accusing  him  of  heresy,  thus 
obtaining  his  dismissal,  and  his  banishment  from  several 
provinces  in  Spain.  He  spent  the  rest  of  his  life  on  his 
property  near  Niebla,  where  he  died  on  i6th  August  1064. 
The  Gotha  Library  possesses  his  Ibtdl  al-qiyds  wdl-rdy 
(Destruction  of  Analogy  and  Speculative  Examination), 
a  polemical  disquisition,  from  the  Zahirite  point  of  view, 
against  the  principles  of  orthodox  law.  He  also  wrote 
a  Kitdb  al-milal  zifd /-ntka/ (History  of  the  Philosophical 
and  Religious  Sects),  which  has  been  studied  by  Stein- 
schneider  and  Goldziher.  Together  with  several  other 
treatises  on  jurisprudence,  we  come  upon  a  purely 
literary  work  of  his,  now  in  the  Leyden  Library,  called 
Tauq  al-hamdma  (The  Dove's  Necklace),  an  anthology  of 
love  poems. 

Abu  'Abdallah  Muhammad  Ibn  TOmart  (the  Ber- 
ber form  of  the  name  'Umar)  was  born  in  the  Atlas 
Mountains,  overlooking  the  province  of  Sus  in  Morocco, 
on  2ist  February  1092.  While  still  very  young  he 
earned  a  great  reputation  for  piety.  He  travelled  ;  his 
longing  to  make  the  Mecca  pilgrimage  brought  him 
in  the  first  place  to  Cordova,  then  to  the  Hijaz,  and 
thence  to  Bagdad,  where  he  attended  the  Nizamiyya 
lectures.  His  teachers  were  professors  of  the  Ash'ai"ite 
doctrine,  and  he  carried  it  back  with  him  to  Tripoli  in 


2  52  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Barbary,  mingling  with  its  allegorical  interpretations 
the  Shfite  theory  of  the  impeccability  of  the  imam 
descended  from  'Ali.  The  disturbances  caused  by  his 
teaching  drove  him  out  of  Tripoli  and  Bijaya,  and  he 
took  refuge  with  the  Berber  tribe  of  Masmijda,  from 
which  he  was  descended,  and  which  espoused  his  cause  ; 
he  was  prosecuted  by  the  Government,  proclaimed  him- 
self Mahdi  in  1121,  and  began  the  struggle  against  the 
Moravids.  He  died  in  the  course  of  an  attempt  on 
the  city  of  Morocco,  four  months  after  his  troops  had 
been  defeated  before  that  fortress,  in  1130.  His  suc- 
cessors disseminated  his  teaching  over  Northern  Africa 
and  Spain  ;  and  his  pupil,  'Abd  al-Mu'min,  founded 
the  Almohad  dynasty.  The  Paris  Library  possesses  a 
complete  set  of  his  works,  a  collection  of  small  treatises 
on  theology  and  jurisprudence.  Another  of  his  books, 
the  Kanz  al- UMm  (Treasury  of  Knowledge),  a  work 
on  religious  philosophy,  is  at  Cairo. 

The  Almohads  lead  us  on  to  the  Shi'ites.  The 
Zaidites  of  Southern  Arabia  produced  works  to  explain 
and  defend  their  doctrines.  Abu  Talib  Yahya  al-Buthani, 
surnamed  "the  Imam  who  speaks  according  to  the  Truth 
{Ndtiq  bil-hagq),"  who  died  in  1033,  wrote,  besides  a 
treatise  on  jurisprudence  (al-Tahrtr'),  a  history  of  the 
Zaidite  imams  down  to  971  {al-Ifddd) ;  a  collection  of 
traditions  was  compiled,  under  the  title  of  Durar  al- 
ahdditli,  by  Taqi  al-din  'Abdallah  Ibn  Abi  Najm,  who 
died  towards  1165;  'Abdallah  ibn  Zaid  al-AnsJ  wrote 
the  Fatdwi  al-nabawiyya,  against  the  Mutarrifites,  and  the 
Mandhij  al-baydn,  with  a  similar  tendency — he  was  alive 
about  1233  ;  the  Imam  al-Mansiir  Billah  'Abdallah  ibn 
Hamza  (i  166-1237)  left  a  collection  of  poetr}',  a  treatise 
on  the  mutual  duties  of  parents  and  their  children  [al- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  253 

baydn  wd l-thabdt),  a  defence  of  the  Zaidite  party  {risdlat 
al-Kdfiya),  and  other  treatises  of  the  same  nature.  Most 
of  these  works  are  at  Berlin  ;  the  remainder  are  in  the 
British  Museum. 

Amongst  the  Imamites,  the  Sharif  Al-Murtada, 
whose  name  was  Abul-Qasim  'Ali  ibn  Taliir,  the  de- 
scendant of  'All  ibn  Abi  Talib  (966-1044),  held  the 
post  of  inspector  of  the  'Alid  family  at  Bagdad,  and 
died  there.  Under  the  title  of  Al-durar  wa' l-ghurar 
(Pearls  and  Stars),  he  collected  the  eighty-two  discourses 
he  had  occasion  to  deliver  before  gatherings  over  which 
he  himself  presided.  These  embrace  a  great  variety  of 
literary  subjects,  and  contain  grammatical  observations 
on  passages  in  the  Koran  or  the  hadtth,  explained  by 
means  of  ancient  poetry.  His  Shihdb  fil-Shaib  wdl- 
shabdb,  on  white  hair  and  youth,  has  been  printed  at 
Constantinople.  He  is  also  the  author  (unless  it  be  his 
brother  Radi)  of  the  Nahj  al-baldgha,  a  collection  of 
sayings  which  he  himself  ascribed  to  Ali ;  the  com- 
mentator Mustaqim-Zade  has  even  asserted  him  to  be 
the  real  author  of  the  dtwdn  attributed  to  'Ali,  and  this 
is  by  no  means  an  impossibility. 

Abu  Jafar  Muhammad,  born  at  Tus  in  Khurasan 
in  995,  spent  the  greater  part  of  his  life  at  Bagdad,  and 
died  at  Najaf  (Meshhed  'Ali)  in  1067.  He  wrote  the 
Fihrist  Kutub  al-Shia  (List  of  Shi'ite  Books),  which  was 
published  at  Calcutta  by  A.  Sprenger  and  Maulawy 
'Abdul-Haqq.  Besides  divers  works  on  jurisprudence, 
notably  the  Tahdhtb  al-Ahkdm  (Correction  of  Judg- 
ments), in  which  he  endeavours  to  reconcile  the  various 
Jmdiths,  he  has  composed  a  book  of  prayers  {al-hall 
wdl-iqd),  and  a  treatise  on  Moslem  worship,  entitled 
Misbdh  al-Mutajahhid. 


2  54  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Radi  al-din  Abu  'Ali  al-Tabarsi,  who  died  in  1153, 
wrote  a  great  commentary  on  the  Koran,  under  the 
name  of  Majmd  al-bajdfz,  and  another  yet  larger,  en- 
titled Jdnii  al-jawdmi  ;  he  defended  the  Imamite 
doctrine  in  his  Kitdb  al-ihtijdj  (Book  of  the  Argu- 
ment). 

Najm-al-din  Jafar  al-Hilli,  surnamed  al-MuJiaqqiq 
(the  Examiner),  who  was  born  at  Hilla  in  1205,  wrote 
the  great  Shi'ite  code  known  under  the  title  of  Shardi" 
al-Isldin  (Laws  of  Islamism),  which  has  been  printed 
at  Calcutta,  and  the  publication  of  which,  with  a  Russian 
translation,  was  begun  by  Kasem-Beg;  it  has  been  trans- 
lated into  French  in  its  entirety,  by  Monsieur  A.  Querry. 
The  astronomer  Nasir-al-din  Tusi,  who  travelled  with 
the  Mongol  Emperor  Hulagu,  is  said  to  have  been 
proud  to  attend  this  author's  lessons.  He  died  in  1277, 
of  a  fall  from  the  terrace  of  his  own  house. 

The  Study  of  the  Koran 

As  a  result  of  the  researches  necessitated  by  the 
study  of  law,  the  Koran,  on  which  the  whole  of 
Moslem  jurisprudence  and  society  was  founded,  was 
studied  more  and  more  deeply.  It  was  important  to 
be  able  to  read  the  text  well,  so  as  to  avoid  any  wrong 
reading  which  might  vitiate  its  meaning ;  it  was  yet 
more  important  thoroughly  to  grasp  that  meaning. 
These  were  the  two  branches  of  science  which  sprang 
up  in  the  East — the  science  of  reading,  and  the  science 
of  exegesis. 

When  Caliph  'Uthman  laid  down  a  single  and  only 
text  which  was  to  be  absolute,  and  whereby  all  discus- 
sion as  to  the  real  reading  of  the  sacred  book  was  to 


THE  'ABBASIDS  255 

be  silenced,  he  had  believed  himself  to  be  providing 
an  unshakable  foundation  for  the  new  religion.  This 
was  an  illusion.  In  spite  of  the  disappearance  of  the 
texts  which  did  not  agree  with  the  accepted  Vulgate, 
schools  arose  in  the  great  cities  of  the  empire — at  Mecca 
and  Medina,  jealous  of  their  reputation  as  holy  cities ;  at 
Bassora  and  Kufa,  the  homes  of  grammatical  know- 
ledge. In  these  the  art  of  reading  the  Koran  was 
transmitted  by  oral  tradition,  and  each  of  the  fashions 
taught  could  appeal  -to  the  authority  of  some  great 
name  from  which  its  teaching  had  come  down.  Yet 
the  multifarious  differences  growing  out  of  oral  tradition 
soon  necessitated  the  substitution  of  written  tradition. 
As  early  as  the  middle  of  the  second  century  of  the 
Hegira,  Ya'qub  al-Hadrami  compiled  a  work  on  the 
various  ways  of  reading.  Of  all  the  books  the  titles 
of  which  are  mentioned  to  us,  none,  however,  now 
remain — neither  the  compilation  by  the  famous  his- 
torian Tabari,  nor  the  summary  of  the  seven  schools 
of  readers  given  by  Abu  Bakr  Ibn  Mujahid ;  we  must 
come  down  to  the  fourth  century  before  we  find  short 
works  by  Ibn  Khaqan  (died  927)  and  Ibn  Mihrin  (died 
991),  which  are  now  preserved  at  Berlin,  Algiers,  and 
Leyden. 

Far  more  interesting,  from  our  point  of  view,  is  the 
interpretation  of  the  actual  text  of  the  Koran.  At  a 
verjr  early  date,  the  companions  of  the  Prophet  were 
endlessly  questioned  as  to  the  meaning  of  obscure  and 
difficult  passages,  which  are  very  numerous — sometimes 
on  account  of  the  style,  which  is  intentionally  concise 
and  admitting  of  several  explanations,  and  sometimes 
owing  to  the  use  of  words  belonging  to  the  Quraishite 
dialect,  which  the  other  Arabs  either  misunderstood  or  did 


2  56  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

not  understand  at  all.  'Abdallah  Ibn  'Abbas,  the  uncle 
of  Mahomet,  to  whom  is  ascribed  the  origin  of 
many  Jiadtths,  of  which  he  was  the  first  ear-witness, 
was  often  obliged  to  pronounce  regular  exegetical 
judgments  on  the  difficulties  laid  before  him,  and  his 
authority  is  frequently  quoted  by  commentators  of  a 
later  date.  From  this  period  commences  the  de- 
velopment of  a  considerable  body  of  literature  which 
still  crowds  the  shelves  of  Eastern  libraries.  We  have 
already  had  occasion  to  mention,  amongst  the  produc- 
tions of  the  third  century,  the  works  of  Ibn  Qutaiba, 
Al-Zajjaj,  Tabari,  and  Nishapuri.  Then  the  mystics 
begin  to  add  their  phantasmagoric  explanations  and 
their  dreams  to  their  predecessors'  investigations  ;  men 
like  Sahl  ibn  'Abdallah  al-Tustari  (a  disciple  of  the 
Moslem  saint  Dhu'1-Nun,  the  Egyptian,  who  died 
at  Bassora  towards  886  in  the  odour  of  sanctity,  and 
who  performed  miracles)  introduced  a  mass  of  esoteric 
interpretations  into  their  commentaries  on  the  text,  to 
wrest  its  sense  to  the  advantage  of  their  own  ideas, 
moral  and  mystic,  drawing  complete  explanations,  in- 
tended to  serve  their  own  ends,  from  the  simple  words 
they  turned  aside  from  their  natural  signification.  With 
these  mystics,  of  Aryan  origin,  we  do  find  certain 
lawyers  who  practised  a  healthy  form  of  exegesis,  simply 
taking  what  the  text  really  contains.  Among  them  we 
may  mention  Al-]assas  al-Razi,  a  learned  Hanafite 
of  the  Bagdad  School,  who  long  lived  as  a  teacher  at 
Nishapiar,  and  whose  works  are  to  be  found  at  Constanti- 
nople and  at  Cairo  ;  'Abdallah  ibn  'Atiyya,  of  Damascus, 
who  applied  his  profound  knowledge  of  the  Arabic  of 
the  pre-Islamic  poets  to  the  explanation  of  the  Koran  ; 
Ibn  Zamanain,    a    learned   Spaniard,    belonging   to    the 


THE  'ABBASIDS  257 

Malikite  rite,  who  died  in  1008,  leaving  a  commentary,  an 
abridgment  of  which  is  preserved  in  the  British  Museum; 
Al-Hasan  al-Nishapuri,  originally  a  disciple  of  the  dog- 
matic school  of  the  Karramiyya,  who  became  a  Shifi'ite, 
and  added  to  his  reputation  as  a  learned  exegetist  that 
of  a  philologist  and  historian  (died  1015)  ;  Ibn  Salama, 
of  Bagdad,  in  which  city  he  taught  at  the  Mosque  of 
Al-Mansflr,  and  wrote  the  earliest  work  in  our  pos- 
session on  those  peculiar  passages  in  the  Koran  which 
do  away  with  each  other,  and  which  are  called  ndsikh 
znd7ftansiikA{tha.t  which  abrogates,  and  that  which  is  abro- 
gated). My  readers  are  aware  that  although  the  Koran 
is  reputed  to  be  the  Divine  word,  merely  transmitted 
by  the  Prophet's  mouth,  certain  of  its  precepts  have 
been  abrogated  and  annulled  by  subsequent  injunc- 
tions ;  thus  will  a  monarch  correct  himself  under  pretext 
of  having  been  better  informed  on  the  second  occasion. 
This  is  no  shock  to  the  Moslem  mind,  accustomed  as 
it  is,  through  the  system  of  passive  obedience  which  is 
the  very  foundation  of  its  faith,  to  look  on  the  Deity 
as  an  autocrat  far  more  mighty  than  anything  known 
on  earth.  The  Shfites  themselves,  as  early  as  the  fourth 
century,  had  interpreters  of  the  Koran,  such  as  Abu'l- 
Hasan  'Ali  al-Qummi,  the  author  of  an  abridged  com- 
mentary which  represents  the  family  of 'Ali  as  the  source 
of  all  knowledge,  and  which  gives  us  an  insight,  so  to 
speak,  into  the  evident  and  entire  fabrication  which  is 
the  characteristic  peculiarity  of  Shi'ite  literature. 

The  art  of  reading  the  Koran  has  been  treated  by 
Abu  Muhammad  MakI  ibn  Hammush  al-QaisI.  He 
was  born  at  Qairawan  in  966,  went  to  Egypt  at  the  age 
of  thirteen,  to  study  philosophy  and  arithmetic,  returned 
to  his  own  country,  left  it  again  in  987,  to  go  to  Mecca, 


2S8  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

and  continued  his  studies  in  Egypt  when  he  came  back. 
He  was  an  incorrigible  traveller,  started  for  the  valley  of 
the  Nile  a  third  time,  with  the  intention  of  studying  the 
different  methods  of  reading  the  Koran,  numbering  seven, 
and  remained  there  a  year.  In  997  he  returned  to  Mecca, 
where  he  spent  four  years,  and  thence  proceeded  to  Spain, 
taught  in  various  mosques  at  Cordova,  was  appointed 
imam  and  preacher  at  the  Great  Mosque,  and  retained 
that  position  till  his  death  in  1045,  though  he  was  hardly 
fitted  to  fill  it  efficiently,  for  he  was  more  proficient  in 
the  art  of  psalmody  than  in  the  composition  of  sermons. 
The  Bodleian  possesses  his  Ri  dya  li-tajwtd  al-qiraa 
(Observation  of  Good  Reading) ;  the  Berlin  Library,  and 
those  of  Gotha  and  Cairo,  have  his  Tabsira,  his  Kashf, 
his  Prdb  niushkildt  al-Qurdn  (Grammatical  Explanation 
of  Certain  Difficult  Words  in  the  Koran),  and  his  Shark 
Kalld  wa  -  bald  (Commentary  on  those  two  Arabic 
expressions). 

Abu  'Amr  'Uthman  ibn  Sa'id  al-Dani  (981-1053), 
who  was  born  at  Denia  in  Spain,  made  the  pilgrimage 
in  1006,  and  remained  four  months  at  Qairawan,  and  a 
year  at  Cairo.  On  his  return  he  settled  in  his  native 
town,  and  died  there.  Under  the  title  of  Taisir,  he  left  a 
treatise  on  the  seven  different  readings,  another  of  the 
same  nature  called  y<2?;2z''  al-Baydn,  a  book  on  the  com- 
position of  the  Koran  and  the  definition  of  its  ortho- 
graphy (al-Muqnf),  and  some  other  treatises  of  a  similar 
kind — nine  in  all,  of  the  hundred  and  twenty  works  he 
produced. 

Abu  Tahir  Ismail  IBN  Khalaf  al-Saraqost1  was 
born  at  Saragossa,  and  died  there  on  4th  January  1063. 
He  was  deeply  versed  in  literature,  and  never  ceased 
tsudying  and  communicating  the  information   thus  ac- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  259 

quired  to  the  public  till  the  day  of  his  death.  His  Kitdb 
al-  Univdn  exists  in  manuscript  at  Berlin. 

Abu  1-Muzaffar  Yahya  IBN  HuBAiRA  was  the  son  of 
a  soldier  belonging  to  the  military  colony  established 
on  the  Dujail  in  'Ir^q.  He  was  of  pure  Arab  blood. 
He  studied  Hanbalite  law  and  the  Koranic  sciences 
at  Bagdad,  and  subsequently  entered  the  Government 
service,  and  rose  to  be  vizier,  being  thus  rewarded  for 
a  well-turned  letter  whereby  he  brought  about  the  repu- 
diation of  the  Abyssinian  eunuch  Mas'ud  al-Bilali, 
Prefect  of  the  Police  at  Bagdad,  under  the  Seljuqids. 
He  died  in  1165.  His  Ifsdh  deals  with  those  words  in 
the  sacred  book  as  to  the  reading  of  which  the  most 
famous  readers  disagree  :  it  is  now  in  existence,  at  Paris. 
His  Ishrdf  treats  of  the  difference  between  the  four 
orthodox  rites. 

Al-Qasim  ibn  Firroh  al-Shatibi  (1144-1194),  who 
was  born  at  Jativa  in  Spain,  went  to  Cairo  in  1176, 
and  was  a  reader  of  the  Koran  there.  His  father's 
name  is  the  ancient  Spanish  fierro  (for  hierro),  iron. 
His  masterpiece,  which  is  entitled  Hirs  al-Amdnt  wa- 
Wajh  al-Tahdnt  (Wishes  Accomplished  and  Open  Felici- 
tations), but  which  is  better  known  under  the  name 
of  Chdtibiyya,  is  a  didactic  poem  in  one  hundred  and 
seventy-three  lines,  a  versification  of  the  Tatsir,  intended 
for  learning  by  heart,  which  gives  in  rough  and  not 
very  intelligible  language  all  the  rules  for  reading  the 
Koran.  Ibn  Khallikan  was  of  opinion  that  no  work  of 
the  same  nature  had  been  previously  produced.  Let  us 
admire  the  conquest  of  a  difficulty,  and  pass  on  our  way. 
Al-Dani's  Muqm  was  also  put  into  verse  by  the  same 
author,  and  he  likewise  left  a  commentary  on  the  Koran. 

He   had  a  pupil,  'Alam  al-din   Abu'l-Hasan  'All   AL- 


2  6o  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

SakhawI,  who  was  born  at  Sakha,  in  Egypt,  in  1163, 
and  exercised  the  calling  of  Koran  reader  at  Damascus, 
where  he  died  in  1245.  He  wrote  a  number  of  works 
on  the  religious  sciences,  amongst  them  the  Hiddyat  al- 
Murtdi  (Dnection  in  Doubtful  Cases),  a  poem  in  four  hun- 
dred and  twenty-seven  lines,  on  the  homonymous  expres- 
sions to  be  found  in  the  Koran,  commentaries  on  the 
works  of  his  master,  al-Chatibi,  seven  religious  poems, 
and  a  correspondence  in  verse  with  his  contemporary 
Kamal  al-din  al-Sharishi,  the  commentator  of  Hariri's 
Lectures.  So  successful  was  his  oral  teaching,  that  crowds 
eager  to  learn  to  read  the  Koran  under  his  guidance 
might  be  seen  round  him  in  the  Great  Mosque  of  the 
Omeyyads.  Each  person  was  allowed  near  him  in  turn, 
but  only  after  a  long  wait ;  sometimes  two  or  three  read 
difficult  passages  to  him  at  one  and  the  same  time,  and 
he  would  give  his  criticisms  of  each,  one  after  the  other. 
The  grammarians  devoted  their  leisure  moments  not 
only  to  reading  the  text  of  the  Koran,  but  to  interpreting 
its  meaning.  AbiT'l-Hasan  'Ali  ibn  Ibrahim  Al-HaufI 
came  from  a  village  near  Bilbis,  in  Egypt  :  he  died  in 
1038,  after  having  written  the  Burkdn  (The  Proof),  a 
commentary  on  the  Koran  in  twenty-eight  volumes. 
Abu'l-Hasan  'Ali  Ibn  Mattuya  AL-WahidI,  of  Nishapur, 
was  descended,  as  the  name  of  his  ancestor  {Mattat, 
Matthew)  indicates,  from  an  Aramean  and  Christian 
family  :  he  was  a  disciple  of  Tha'labi,  and  died,  after  a 
long  illness,  in  1075.  His  Asbdb  al-NuzM  is  an  historical 
narrative  of  the  occasions  on  which  the  suras  and 
verses  of  the  sacred  book  were  revealed  :  he  also  wrote 
two  commentaries,  the  Wajtz  and  the  Wasit,  and  turned 
his  attention  to  explaining  Mutanabbi's  verses  in  a  fashion 
superior  to  that  of  his  predecessors. 


THE  'ABBASIDS  261 

Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  IBN  al-Arab1  was  born  at 
Seville  in  1076,  accompanied  his  father  on  a  journey 
through  the  East  in  1092,  and  visited  Damascus,  Bagdad, 
and  the  Hijaz.  After  he  had  accomplished  the  cere- 
monies of  the  pilgrimage,  he  returned  to  Bagdad,  to 
attend  the  teachings  of  Ghazali,  and  then  went  back 
to  Seville  by  Alexandria  and  Cairo.  He  reached  his 
native  city  in  iioo,  and  acted  for  some  time  as  qddi, 
teaching  there  afterwards,  till  his  death  in  1151.  His 
commentary  on  the  traditions  of  Tirmidhi,  called  ^Aridat 
al-Ahwadht,  is  lost,  but  at  Cairo  his  other  commentary  on 
the  Koran  {QdnAn  al-ta'wil),  his  judicial  studies  of  the 
sacred  text,  and  his  treatise  on  marriage  (/ard ' id al-nikdh), 
may  yet  be  seen.  'Abdal-Rahman  al-SuhailI  al-Khath'- 
ami,  who  was  born  near  Malaga,  in  the  village  of  Suhail, 
in  1 1 14,  studied  at  Grenada,  lived  for  some  time  at  Se- 
ville, and  finally  returned  to  Malaga.  The  Sultan  of 
Morocco,  Ya'qub  ibn  Mansur,  summoned  him  to  his 
court,  and  he  died  in  Northern  Africa  some  three  years 
later,  on  23rd  November  1185.  His  Tdrifwdl-tldjn  ex- 
plains those  passages  of  the  Koran  which  contain  proper 
names  :  his  Raud  al-Unuf  \s  a  commentary  on  the  bio- 
graphy of  the  Prophet  by  Ibn  Hisham,  which  has  been 
closely  examined  by  P.  Bronnle. 

All  the  extensive  labours  of  the  commentators  we  have 
hitherto  noticed,  most  of  them  grammarians,  are  summed 
up  in  Baidawi's  celebrated  work,  Anwdr al-tanzil  wa-asrdr 
al-tdwil  (The  Light  of  Revelation  and  the  Mysteries 
of  Interpretation),  edited  by  Fleischer.  'Abdallah  ibn 
'Umar  al-BaidAwI,  who  belonged  to  Baida,  a  little 
town  in  Fars,  was  the  son  of  the  Grand  Qadi  of  that 
province,'  under  the  atdbek  Abii  Bakr  ibn  Sa'd,  the 
Maecenas  of  Persian  poetry.     He  himself  acted  as  qddt 


262  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

at  Shiraz,  the  capital  of  the  province,  and  afterwards  Hved 
at  Tabriz,  where  he  died  about  1286.  His  commentary 
is  based  on  Zamakhshari's  Kashshdf,  to  which  he  has 
added  much  matter,  drawn  from  other  sources.  It  is  the 
favourite  commentary  of  the  Sunnites  :  but  it  is  insuffi- 
cient, because  its  treatment  of  the  subject  matter  is  too 
brief,  and  indeed  it  has  been  a  good  deal  criticised, 
even  in  the  East.  His  Minhdj  al-  Wusul  is  a  treatise  on 
Shafi'ite  law,  like  his  GJidyat  al-Quszvd :  his  Misbdh  al- 
arwdh  is  a  theological  manual  :  his  Tawdli''  al-anwdr  is  a 
metaphysical  treatise.  He  also  wrote  a  history  of  Persia 
from  the  days  of  Adam  till  the  year  1275,  in  the  Persian 
language.     It  is  called  Nizdm  al-Tawdrikh. 

Abu'l-Walid  Sulaiman  ibn  Khalaf  AL-Baj1  (1012- 
1081),  born  at  Badajoz,  went  to  the  East  in  1029,  and 
remained  there  for  thirteen  years,  three  of  which  were 
spent  at  Mecca  and  three  at  Medina.  On  his  return 
he  held  a  post  as  Malikite  qddt,  and  died  at  Almeria. 
He  left  the  world  a  Sunan  al-Sdlihin  (Habits  of  Pious 
Folk),  a  collection  of  traditions  touching  moral  conduct, 
a  FusM  al-Ahkdm  on  jurisprudence,  and  a  Reply,  now 
preserved  at  the  Escurial,  to  an  Apology  for  Christianity 
contained  in  a  letter  from  a  French  monk  to  Muqtadir, 
Prince  of  Saragossa. 

Dogmatic  Theology 

The  Koran  had  certain  inveterate  enemies,  to  whom, 
indeed,  it  had  assigned  an  inferior  position  in  the  new 
society,  without  insisting  on  their  forswearing  their 
religion — these  were  the  Jews  and  the  Christians.  The 
last,  especially,  did  not  fail  to  argue  against  a  religion 
which    claimed   to   rule   them.      In   Syria,  above  all,  a 


THE  'ABBASIDS  263 

country  but  recently  snatched  from  the  hands  of  the 
Roman  Emperors  of  the  East,  the  struggle  was  sharp 
and  the  disputations  hot.  The  necessity  for  replying  to 
these  redoubtable  adversaries  called  Moslem  dogmatic 
theology  into  existence.  Soon  the  sects  which  sprang 
up  in  the  very  bosom  of  Islam  constrained  the  orthodox 
teachers  to  wrestle  against  the  innovators,  with  arguments 
drawn  from  the  ancient  texts.  The  Murjites  held  the 
doctrine  of  absolute  predestination  too  extreme,  and 
softened  it  down  ;  they  had  the  glory  of  counting  the 
great  jurisconsult  Abii  Hanifa  among  their  disciples. 
But  the  real  attack  on  orthodoxy  came  from  the  rational- 
ists, called  in  Arabic  Mutazila,  that  is  to  say,  "those  who 
separate  themselves."  It  was  at  Bassora  that  Wasil  ibn 
Ata  founded  the  Mu  tazilite  sect.  This  school  directed 
its  inquiries  specially  to  the  existence  and  attributes  of 
the  Deity.  The  ancient  Mutazilites  are  said  to  have 
drawn  their  ideas  from  the  dialectics  of  the  Greeks. 
This  may  be,  but,  in  the  absence  of  their  writings,  proof 
is  impossible,  and  these  are  all  lost.  In  the  third 
century  much  argument  was  expended  on  the  famous 
question  whether  the  Koran  had  been  created,  or  had 
existed  through  all  eternity.  The  orthodox  party  in- 
clined to  the  second  opinion ;  the  Mu  tazilites  authori- 
tatively put  forward  the  first.  The  struggle  was  a  long 
one,  and  steeped  the  Moslem  Empire  in  blood.  In  827, 
the  Caliph  al-Ma'mun  officially  declared  the  Koran  to 
be  created,  and  commanded  that  all  who  controverted 
this  doctrine  should  be  prosecuted.  This  brilliant 
triumph  of  the  Mu  tazilite  teaching  did  not  last  long. 
In  851,  Al  -  Mutawakkil,  who,  for  political  reasons, 
desired  the  support  of  the  orthodox  party,  upset 
the  fragile  edifice,  and  placed  the  secular  arm  at  the 


264  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

disposal  of  the  Mutazilites'  foes.  At  the  same  period, 
Muhammad  ibn  Ishfiq  of  Nishapur  wrote  a  book  against 
them,  affirming  the  unity  of,  and  noting  the  proofs  of 
the  attributes  of,  the  Deity.  But  the  final  disappearance 
of  the  Mu  tazilite  movement,  and  the  establishment  of  a 
rigid  orthodoxy,  cast  in  a  definite  mould,  and  never  again 
to  be  altered,  must  be  ascribed  to  a  great  Moslem  doctor, 
Abu'l-Hasan  'Alt  ibn  Isma'il  AL-AsharL  He  came  of 
an  ancient  and  noble  Arab  familj^,  and  was  born  at 
Bassora  in  873.  Although  he  was  brought  up  in  a  family 
of  orthodox  opinions,  he  became  a  Mutazilite,  con- 
vinced by  the  teachings  of  the  great  doctor  of  that  sect, 
Al-Jubba'i,  and  continued  in  this  belief  till  he  had 
reached  his  fortieth  year.  He  then  awoke  to  the  truth 
and  returned  to  the  orthodox  fold.  His  Mutazilite 
studies  made  him  a  dangerous  enemy,  for  he  was  able 
to  fight  the  rationalists  with  their  own  weapons.  His 
abjuration  took  place  in  public,  and  made  a  great  stir, 
for  it  was  from  the  pulpit  of  the  Great  Mosque  at 
Bassora  that  he  announced  his  repudiation  of  Mutazilite 
opinions  and  his  submission  to  the  faith  of  his  fathers 
(912).  At  a  later  date  he  went  to  Bagdad,  and  there 
wrote  ninety-nine  works,  many  of  which  are  quite  small 
treatises. 

During  Al-Ash'ari's  period,  Abu  Mansur  Muhammad 
ibn  Mahmud  al-Maturidi,  thus  surnamed  after  the 
quarter  in  Samarqand  in  which  he  was  born,  was 
preaching  a  reform  of  the  orthodox  dogma  which  met 
with  brilliant  success  in  India,  Transoxania,  and  Tur- 
key. There  was  but  very  slight  divergence,  indeed, 
between  his  views  and  those  of  Al-Ash'ari.  He  died  in 
his  native  city  in  944.  Soon  after,  a  most  prolific  poly- 
graph was  born   in    the   same   town  —  Abu'l-Laith  al- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  265 

Samarqandt,  a  Hanafite  doctor,  whose  studies  embraced 
the  various  fields  of  theology,  jurisprudence,  exegesis, 
and  moral  science.     He  died  about  993. 

Abu  Hamid  Muhammad  al-GhazalI  (1049-1111), 
thus  surnamed,  according  to  Sam'ani,  after  the  village 
of  Ghazala,  near  Tus,  in  Khurasan,  where  he  was  born 
(not  al-Ghazzali,  as  it  is  commonly  pronounced),  studied 
theology  at  Nishapur,  where  he  received  instruction  from 
the  imam  Al-Haramain.  After  the  death  of  his  master,  he 
attached  himself  to  the  famous  Vizier  Nizam  al-Mulk,  who 
gathered  all  the  most  illustrious  men  of  his  time  about 
him  ;  he  was  victor  in  the  public  disputations  which 
took  place,  and  the  caravans  soon  carried  his  fame  far 
and  wide.  In  1054  he  was  appointed  to  teach  at  the 
Nizamiyya  at  Bagdad,  where  an  audience  of  three 
hundred  persons  crowded  to  hear  him ;  but  at  the  end 
of  four  years  he  resigned  his  post,  and  had  it  conferred 
on  his  brother  Ahmad,  so  that  he  himself  might  be  more 
free  to  prosecute  his  philosophical  researches.  For  the 
space  of  eleven  years,  as  he  tells  us,  he  withdrew  from 
the  world,  and  gave  himself  up  to  ascetic  practices.  He 
travelled,  and  Damascus,  Jerusalem,  Mecca,  and  Alex- 
andria each  welcomed  him  in  turn.  Then  it  was  that 
he  endeavoured  to  reconcile  science  with  faith,  and 
plunged  into  the  pantheistic  mysticism  of  the  Sufis. 

While  at  Alexandria,  he  heard  of  the  Moravid  rising, 

the  leader  of  which   believed   himself  to  have   brought 

forth  a   reforming   movement  in  Islam,  and  conceived 

the  idea  of  entering  the  service  of  Yusuf  ibn  Tashifin. 

But  Yusuf  died  in  1106,  before  Ghazali  had  started  on 

his  journey,   and  the  philosopher  renounced  his  plan, 

and  returned  to  his  native  town  of  Tus,  where  he  lived 

in  peace,  except  for  the  period  during  which,  in  response 
18 


266  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

to  the  request  of  Muhammad,  son  of  Mahk-Shah,  he 
taught  at  Nishapur.  He  died  in  the  Tabaran  quarter,  on 
19th  December,  11 11.  He  had  founded  a  Sufi  monastery 
there,  and  also  a  madrasa  for  theological  study.  Suyuti 
was  able  to  say  of  him  :  "  If  there  was  to  have  been  any 
prophet  after  Mahomet,  Al-Ghazali  would  surely  have 
been  that  prophet."  The  admiration  of  the  Moslem 
world  decorated  him  with  the  title  of  Hujjat  al-Isldin 
(The  Decisive  Argument  of  Islamism),  He  belonged  to 
the  Shafi'ite  rite,  which  was  the  most  general  in  Persia 
at  that  time.  This  was  long  before  the  triumph  of 
Shafi'ism,  which  was  not  to  become  the  State  religion 
till  the  time  of  the  Safavids,  in  the  sixteenth  century. 

The  works  we  owe  to  Ghazali's  pen  are  very  numerous. 
Brockelmann  tells  us  of  sixty-nine  which  are  still  in 
existence.  In  this  place  we  can  only  hastily  review 
them.  The  Jawdhir  al-Qurdn  (Jewels  of  the  Koran)  is  a 
system  of  theology;  "Cn&^Aqida  is  a  statement  of  the 
articles  of  the  Moslem  faith,  which  has  been  published 
by  Pococke  in  his  Specimen;  the  Precious  Pearl  {Al- 
durra  al-fdkhird)  is  a  treatise  on  the  Last  J  udgment  and 
the  end  of  the  world — what  theologians  call  an  escha- 
tology  —  it  has  been  translated  and  published  by  L. 
Gautier.  The  morality  and  theology  of  the  mystics  are 
codified  in  the  Ihyd  ^ulAin  al-din  (Revivification  of  the 
Religious  Sciences).  The  Mizdn  al-amal  (Balance  of  the 
Works)  has  been  translated  into  Hebrew  by  Ibrahim 
ben  Hasdai  of  Barcelona,  and  published  by  Goldenthal. 
The  Kimiyd  al-sddda  (Alchemy  of  Happiness)  is  a  popular 
lecture  founded  on  mysticism ;  this  work,  which  was 
originally  written  in  Persian,  has  been  translated  into 
English  by  H.  A.  Homes,  under  the  above  English 
title.     Ayyuhd!l-walad  (O  Child  !)  is  a  celebrated  moral 


THE  'ABBASIDS  267 

treatise,  which  has  been  translated  into  German  and 
published  by  Hammer-Purgstall.  In  the  judicial  de- 
partment, his  treatises  on  Shafi'ite  law  have  earned 
great  success  in  the  Moslem  world ;  his  Basit,  Wasit, 
and  Wajtz  are  all  abridgments  of  them.  In  that  of 
philosophy,  the  Tahdfut  al-Faldsifa  (Collapse  of  the  Philo- 
sophers) is  an  attack  on  the  adherents  of  the  Greek 
philosophy ;  it  has  been  studied  by  De  Boer.  The 
Maqdsid  al-faldsifa  (Aims  of  the  Philosophers)  is  a  sort, 
of  introduction  to  the  above.  Its  text  has  been  pub- 
lished by  G.  Beer,  and  a  Latin  translation  by  Gondisalvi 
is  in  existence,  which  was  printed  at  Venice  in  1506. 
The  Munqidh  min  al-daldl  (Preservative  from  Error), 
written  after  the  author  recommenced  his  life  as  a 
teacher  at  Nishapur  for  the  second  time,  describes  the 
development  of  his  line  of  philosophic  thought.  It  was 
translated  and  published  by  Schmolders,  in  his  Essay  on 
the  Schools  of  Philosophy  among  the  Arabs ;  a  second  and 
greatly  improved  translation  was  published  in  ih&  Jouimal 
Asiatique  for  1877,  by  that  learned  savant,  Barbier  de 
Meynard. 

Together  with  this  great  Shafi'ite  doctor  we  must  not 
forget  to  mention  his  brother,  Abu'l-Futuh  Majd  al-din 
Ahmad,  who  succeeded  to  his  professorial  chair  at  the 
Nizamiyya.  Like  him,  he  had  mystic  leanings,  and  he 
disseminated  his  views  by  exhortation,  as  well  as  by  his 
pen,  for  he  was  a  fine-looking  man,  and  had  the  gift  of 
miracles.  He  had  a  passion  for  preaching  in  public, 
which  led  him  somewhat  to  neglect  his  judicial  studies. 
He  died  at  Qazvin  in  1126.  He  abridged  his  brother's 
Ihyd,  and  wrote  treatises  on  Siifism,  such  as  the  Minhdj 
al-Albdb  (Road  for  Hearts),  a  treatise  on  the  advantages 
of  poverty  and  the  assumption  of  monkish  garb  among 


268  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

the  mystics  ;  a  book  {Eawdriq  al-ilmd')  in  defence  of 
music,  which  was  considered  futile  and  frivolous  by 
strict  Moslems,  but  which  the  mystics  held  to  be  one 
means  of  reaching  the  state  of  ecstasy.  His  Kitdb  al- 
dhakhtra  is  a  summary  of  his  brother's  system. 

Najm  al-din  Abu  Hafs  'Umar  al-Nasaf1  (1068-1142), 
who  was  born  in  the  town  of  Nasaf,  in  Transoxania, 
was  one  of  the  greatest  Hanafite  teachers  of  his 
time.  His  most  famous  work  is  his  ^ Aqd'id  (Articles  of 
Faith),  a  Moslem  catechism,  pubhshed  by  W.  Cureton, 
and  translated  into  French  in  the  Tableau  de  f  empire 
othoman,  by  Mouradjea  d'Ohsson,  and  into  German  by 
Ziegler.  He  also  wrote  a  long  didactic  poem  of  two 
thousand  seven  hundred  lines,  on  the  differences  which 
divide  the  leaders  of  the  orthodox  rites,  and  at  least  two 
commentaries  on  the  Koran. 

Abu'1-Fath  Muhammad  al-Shahrastan!  (1086-1153) 
was  born  at  Shahrastan,  a  large  village  in  Khurasan, 
and  studied  at  Jurjaniyya  (Ourghendj),  and  at  Nishapur, 
where  he  specially  devoted  his  attention  to  the  theo- 
logical system  of  Al-Ash'ari.  He  took  advantage  of  his 
pilgrimage  to  Mecca  (in  11 16),  to  spend  three  years  at 
Bagdad,  on  his  way  back.  He  then  returned  to  his 
own  country,  and  died  there.  His  Kitdb  al-milal  wa'l- 
nihal  is  a  complete  and  detailed  statement  of  the  various 
philosophical  opinions  and  religious  sects,  Moslem  and 
other.  It  has  been  published  by  Cureton,  and  trans- 
lated into  German  by  Haarbriicker.  He  also  wrote  a 
history  of  the  philosophers,  which  was  in  the  possession 
of  Bland — a  Persian  translation  brought  to  London  by 
Eraser  was  purchased  by  a  Prince  of  Oudh,  and  taken 
back  to  India  by  him.  The  Nihdyat  al-iqddm  (Limit  of 
Progress)  is  a  complete  treatise  on  scholastic  theology. 


THE   'ABBASIDS  269 

The  Musdrdat  al-faldsifa  is  a  discussion  of  seven  ques- 
tions of  metaphysics. 

Siraj  al-din  'Ali  al-Ush1,  who  was  born  at  tjsh  in 
Farghina,  wrote,  towards  the  year  1173,  a  didactic  poem 
rhyming  in  /,  and  known  by  the  title  of  Amdlt  (Dicta- 
tions), which  deals  with  the  principles  of  the  Moslem 
faith,  and  which  has  been  published  by  P.  von  Bohlen, 
and  frequently  commentated.  An  extract,  consisting  of 
a  hundred  short  traditions,  from  his  Gliurar  al-akhbdr  is 
preserved  in  manuscript  both  at  Cairo  and  at  Berlin. 

On  the  occasion  of  the  receipt  of  a  letter  from  the 
Roman  Emperor  of  Constantinople  by  the  Egyptian 
Sultan  Malik  -  Kamil,  Abu'l  -  Baqa  Sahh  al-Ja'fari  in- 
dited, in  the  year  1221,  a  refutation  of  Christianity  and 
Judaism,  under  the  title  oi  Al-baydn  al-wadth  al-maskMd, 
which  has  been  utilised  by  F.  Triebs  in  his  dissertation, 
published  at  Bonn  in  1897. 

'Abdal-Aziz  ibn  'Abdal-Salam  al-Sulam1  (1181-1262), 
surnamed  Sultdn  al-  Ulamd,  who  was  born  at  Damascus, 
was  a  preacher  there  till  he  was  summoned  to  Egypt, 
about  1240,  by  Malik-Shah.  He  remained  in  that 
country  till  he  died,  and  wrote  a  large  number  of 
works  on  Shafi'ite  jurisprudence,  eighty-four  of  which, 
have  come  down  to  us,  among  them  the  great  and  the 
little  QawdHd al-Shart'a  (Rules  of  the  Law),  the  Mulhat 
al-ttiqdd,  which  is  a  criticism  of  Al-Ash'ari's  system,  and 
a  polemical  attack  on  certain  innovators,  such  as  the 
hashwiyya. 

The  Mystics 

The  same  impulse  which  drew  men's  minds  towards, 
religious  orthodoxy  carried  a  great  many  of  them  beyond 
the  bounds  of  reason,  and,  aided  by  influences  of  Persian 


2-jo  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

origin,  developed  the  theories  of  mysticism  in  the  Moslem 
world.  The  men  who  have  been  called  the  Saints  of 
Islam  were  all  mystics,  or,  to  give  them  the  name 
under  which  they  were  known  in  the  East,  they  were 
Sufis  —  men  clad  in  wool,  or,  as  we  should  say,  in 
fustian.  Originally  they  were  ascetics,  after  the  fashion 
of  the  Christian  monks — men  who  renounced  the  world 
and  its  perishable  good,  to  devote  themselves  to  the 
contemplative  life  in  desert  places  ;  at  a  later  date  we 
find  brotherhoods,  religious  orders,  with  certain  ap- 
pointed spots  where  they  met  for  united  prayer — 
prayers  which  rapidly  became  spiritual  exercises  of  a 
very  material  description,  such  as  the  dance  of  the  whirl- 
ing dervishes,  the  juggling  tricks  of  the  'Isavis,  and  the 
screams  or  roarings  of  the  Rifa  iyya.  But  at  the  distant 
period  of  which  we  now  speak,  all  these  things  were  in 
the  future.  The  question  arises  whether  Moslem  mysti- 
cism had  its  origin  in  India,  or  among  the  Greek  and 
Syrian  monks.  In  either  case,  it  is  the  very  antithesis  of 
the  Semitic  spirit,  and  must  have  been  the  outcome  of 
the  most  powerful  of  Aryan  influences. 

The  oldest  mystics  whose  works  have  come  down  to  us 
are  the  following  :  Abu  'Abdallah  al-Harith  ibn  Asad 
al-Muhasibi,  who  belonged  to  Bassora.  He  preached  the 
renunciation  of  worldly  things,  and  set  a  practical  ex- 
ample by  refusing  his  patrimonial  inheritance  on  pretext 
of  a  legal  scruple,  founded  on  the  fact  that  his  father  had 
been  a  supporter  of  the  doctrine  of  human  free  will, 
which  is  contrary  to  the  orthodox  theory  of  predestina- 
tion, and  that,  in  Moslem  law,  persons  of  different  faiths 
cannot  inherit  from  each  other.  He  lived  in  indigence, 
and  died  in  857.  His  contemporary,  Dhu'1-Nun  the 
Egyptian,  born  at  Ikhmhxi,  seems  to  have  held  religious 


THE   'ABBASIDS  271 

views  which  were  closely  bound  up  with  most  fantastic 
notions  on  the  subject  of  alchemy.  In  the  person  of  Al- 
Junaid  (died  910),  who  came  of  a  family  belonging 
to  Nahawand  (his  father  was  a  glassworker),  Sufism 
appears  to  have  taken  a  decided  trend  in  the  direction 
of  pantheism.  This  master  gathered  a  certain  number 
of  disciples  about  him.  One,  Al-Husain  ibn  Mansur 
al-Hallaj,  became  famous.  He  was  of  Persian  birth, 
performed  miracles,  and  attracted  a  certain  number  of 
proselytes — so  many  that  the  sovereign  power  took 
umbrage,  and  on  pretext  that  he  had  declared  the  Deity 
to  be  incarnate  in  his  own  person,  he  was  haled  before 
the  judge  at  Bagdad,  condemned  to  death,  and  executed 
(921). 

In  Ghazali  we  have  seen  the  theologian  with  mystical 
leanings.  We  are  now  about  to  study  the  impulse 
imparted  to  literature  by  this  new  branch,  inspired 
by  Persian  thinkers.  Abu'l-Qasim  'Abdal-Karim  AL- 
QushairI  (986-1072),  of  a  family  settled  in  Khurasan 
after  the  conquest,  lost  his  father  at  a  very  early  age, 
and  inherited  a  landed  property  near  Ustuwa.  He  went 
to  study  at  Nishapur,  with  the  object  of  acquiring  suffi- 
cient knowledge  to  enable  him  to  protect  himself  against 
the  exactions  of  the  public  treasury.  Abu  'All  al-Hasan 
al-Daqqaq,  the  great  master  of  Sufism,  whose  teachings 
he  attended,  incited  him  to  study  science  and  mysticism, 
and  ended  by  inducing  him  to  devote  himself  to  them 
entirely.  He  even,  at  a  later  date,  gave  him  his  own 
daughter  in  marriage.  In  1056  he  proceeded  to  Bag- 
dad, and  there  taught  the  traditions  according  to  the 
Shifi'ite  view ;  he  died  at  Nishapur.  To  a  profound 
knowledge  of  the  Sufi  tenets,  he  united  great  skill  in 
caligraphy,  and  a  remarkable   amount   of   erudition   in 


272  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

literary  matters.  The  Risdla,  which  bears  his  name,  was 
written  with  the  object  of  imparting  fresh  glory  to  the 
doctrines  of  the  mystics,  which  had  fallen  rather  out  of 
fashion  in  his  day.  His  Tarttb  al-Suliik  ft  tartq  Allah 
(Method  of  Progress  in  the  Way  of  God)  is  a  guide  for 
the  Sufi  beginner.  His  Tahbir  is  a  treatise  on  the 
hundred  names  of  God,  and  their  use  in  prayer. 

Abu  Ismail  'Abdallah  al-Harawi,  who  was  born  at 
Quhan-diz  in  1005,  and  died  at  Herat  in  1088,  left  a 
Mandzil  al-Sdirin,  which  treats  of  the  various  stages 
through  which  the  Siifi  must  pass  before  he  reaches  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth  ;  a  Dhamm  al-Kaldm,  which  is  an 
attack  on  dogmatic  and  scholastic  theology,  and  a  Tabaqdt 
al-Siifiyya  (History  of  the  Mystics),  which  is  the  basis  of 
the  Persian  poet  Jami's  NafaJidt  al-Uns. 

Taj  al-Islam  al-Husain  Ibn  Khamis  al-Mausili,  who  was 
born  at  Juhaina,  a  village  near  Mosul,  travelled  down 
the  banks  of  the  Tigris,  to  study  Shafi'ite  law  under 
Ghazali  at  Bagdad,  and  became  qddt  of  a  big  village  on 
the  Euphrates,  between  Raqqa  and  Bagdad.  He  ulti- 
mately retired  to  Mosul,  and  died  there  in  May  1157. 
His  Mandqib  al-abrdr  (Biographies  of  Pious  Men)  is  an 
imitation  of  Qushairi's  Risdla,  combined  with  a  history  of 
the  Sufis. 

Sheikh  'Adi  ibn  Musafir  al-Hakkari  was  born  in  the 
village  of  Bait-Qar,  near  Baalbek.  When  still  a  young 
man  he  made  long  journeys  to  visit  the  chief  Sufis  of 
his  time.  At  a  later  date  he  retired  to  the  ruins  of 
a  Christian  convent,  in  the  mountains  to  the  west  of 
Mosul,  where  he  set  up  his  zdwiya;  and  there  he  died  in 
1 163,  after  having  founded  the  religious  order  of  the 
'Adawiyya.  The  Yazidis,  who  at  that  period  probably 
inhabited  the  mountains  of  Sinjar,  adopted  him  as  their 


THE  'ABBASIDS  273 

patron,  rendering  him  a  kind  of  worship  which  has 
hardly  anything  Moslem  about  it ;  down  to  the  present 
day  he  continues  to  be  their  favourite  saint,  and  his  tomb 
is  stil]  a  place  of  pilgrimage.  The  Berlin  Library  pos- 
sesses his  catechism,  i'tiqdd  ahl  al-sunna  (Beliefs  of  the 
Sunnites),  his  counsels  to  the  Caliphs  and  to  his  own 
followers  (  Wasdyd),  and  two  odes,  both  of  them  mystic 
in  their  conception. 

Muhyi  al-din  Abd  AL-Qadir  AL-GilanI  (1078-1168)/ 
one  of  the  great  Islamic  saints,  traced  his  origin  back 
to  'All.  He  was  born  in  Gilan,  to  the  south  of  the 
Caspian  Sea,  aiid  when  still  young  went  to  Bagdad, 
where  he  commenced  the  study  of  Hanbalite  law  in 
1095.  In  1 127  he  began  to  hold  edifying  gatherings, 
swiftly  acquired  a  reputation  for  sanctity,  and  per- 
formed miracles.  He  used  to  say  :  "  I  would  all  the 
goods  in  the  world  were  in  my  hands,  so  that  I  might 
feed  all  who  are  hungry."  The  religious  order  of  the 
Qadiriyya,  which  he  founded,  still  maintains  its  doc- 
trines and  its  fame  all  over  the  East.  The  great  ad- 
versary of  the  power  of  France  in  Algeria,  the  Amir 
'Abdal-Qidir  (Muhyi  al-din  'Abdal-Qadir  al-Hasani), 
with  whom,  after  his  retirement  to  Damascus,  the  writer 
of  these  lines  had  the  honour  of  a  personal  acquaint- 
ance, was  proud  to  claim  descent  from  the  illustrious 
saint  of  Bagdad.  He  wrote  the  Ghunya  litdlibi  tariq 
al-haqq  (The  Work  which  Suffices  those  who  Seek  the 
True  Path),  a  complete  treatise  on  Sufism ;  the  Futuh 
al-ghaib  (Opening  of  the  Mysteries),  rules  for  the  con- 
duct of  his  disciples  ;  the  Jala  al-khdtir,  a  collection 
of  sermons  delivered  either  in  the  madrasa,  or  in  the 
Sufi  Convent  at  Bagdad,  in  1150  and  1151,  which  is 
preserved  in  the  Library  of  the   India  Office ;  another 


274  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

collection  of  the  same  kind,  Al-fath  al-rabbdni  (Revela- 
tions of  the  Lord),  which  has  been  printed  at  Cairo  ; 
numerous  forms  of  prayer,  and  some  mystic  poetry. 

piya  al-din  'Abdal-Qahir  ibn  "Abdallah  al-Suhra- 
WARDt,  a  descendant  of  the  Caliph  Abu  Bakr,  who 
was  born  at  Suhraward,  a  little  town  near  Zenjan  in 
Adharbaijan,  in  the  year  1097,  studied  Hanafite  law  at 
the  Nizamiyya,  became  imbued  with  mysticism,  lived 
a  solitary  life,  and  built  himself  a  zdwiya  to  the  west  of 
Bagdad.  Between  1131  and  1152  he  taught  at  the 
Nizamiyya;  in  1160  he  held  dervish  meetings  at  Mosul; 
he  afterwards  moved  towards  Jerusalem,  but  could  not 
get  into  the  city,  which  was  then  in  the  hands  of  the 
Crusaders,  and  so  remained  at  Damascus,  where  Nur- 
al-din  Mahmud  ibn  Zangi  received  him  with  great 
honour.  He  afterwards  returned  to  Bagdad,  and  died 
there  in  1168.  His  treatise  on  mystics  bears  the  title 
oi  Addb  al-murtdin  (Morality  for  Disciples) ;  the  Vienna 
Library  also  possesses  a  commentary  of  his  on  the 
hundred  names  of  God. 

He  must  not  be  confused  with  another  celebrated 
ascetic,  Shihab  al-din  Yahyi  ibn  Habash  ibn  Amirak  AL- 
SUHRAWARdI  (1153-1191),  who  studied  law  at  Maragha, 
became  a  convert  to  Sufism,  and  wandered  to  Ispahan, 
Bagdad,  and  Aleppo.  His  eclectic  doctrine  was  a  mixture 
of  Neo-Platonic  ideas  and  Iranian  tradition,  modified  by 
Islamism,  and  by  the  Shf  ite  conception  of  a  hidden  and 
impeccable  Imam.  He  called  it  Hikmat  al-Iskrdq  {PhWo- 
sophy  of  the  Illumination,  Illuminism),  and  his  disciples 
have  taken  the  name  of  ishrdqis  (illuminists).  In  the 
early  part  of  his  residence  at  Aleppo  he  seems  to  have 
found  the  prince  who  ruled  that  city,  Malik-Zahir,  the 
son  of   Saladin,  favourably  disposed  towards  him ;  but 


THE  'ABBASIDS  275 

he  was  suspected  of  heresy  by  the  orthodox  party,  and, 
in  spite  of  his  careful  disguising  of  his  teaching  under 
a  cloak  of  obscure  terminology,  his  enemies  succeeded 
in  turning  the  royal  mind  against  him,  and  he  was  put  to 
death.  His  tomb  is  a  place  of  pilgrimage,  and  the  people 
call  him  Shaikh  maqtM  (the  murdered  sheikh).  Besides 
the  Hikmet,  to  which  we  have  already  referred,  he  wrote 
the  Talwthdt,  on  logic,  physic,  and  metaphysics ;  the 
Haydkil  al-Nllr,  on  mysticism  ;  the  Alwdh  al-  Imddiyya, 
on  the  infinite,  the  absolute,  and  the  Divine  attributes, 
dedicated  to  the  Urtuqid  prince,  'Imad  al-din  Qara- 
Arslan,  and  other  works  of  less  importance. 

At  the  same  period  there  dwelt  in  the  Maghrib  AbO 
Madyan  Shu  aib  ibn  al-Hasan,  known  in  Algeria  under 
the  surname  of  Bu-Medin.  He  died  in  1193,  leaving 
a  reputation  for  sanctity  as  great  as  that  of  'Abdal- 
Qadir  al-Gllani's  at  Bagdad.  We  have  several  of  his 
collections  of  sentences,  one  of  which,  an  abridgment  of 
the  Tuhfat  al-Arib,  has  been  published  and  translated 
into  Latin  by  Fr.  de  Bombay.  He  also  wrote  mystic 
poetry. 

A  Spaniard,  who  settled  at  Damascus  and  practised 
there  as  a  physician,  Abu'1-Fadl  "Abdal-Munim  ibn 
'Umar  AL-JuLYANt  (i  136-1205),  wrote  a  manual  of 
mysticism  under  the  title  of  Adab  al-SulUk,  and  an 
apology  for  Saladin  in  rhymed  prose  and  verse,  to 
celebrate  the  taking  of  Jerusalem,  called  the  Manddih 
al-mamddih.  In  praise  of  the  same  prince  he  was  also 
led  to  compose  poems  to  which  he  gave  the  external 
form  of  trees,  columns,  circles,  and  chessboards.  These 
quaint  compositions  may  be  seen  in  the  Paris  and 
Upsala  Libraries ;  they  are  called  the  Diwdn  al-tadbij. 

Rukn  al-din  Abu   Hamid  al-AmidI,  of  Samarqand,  a 


276  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

learned  lawyer,  who  died  at  Bukhara  in  1218,  treats 
the  subject  of  the  independence  of  the  microcosm,  the 
human  body,  in  relation  to  the  macrocosm,  according 
to  a  Persian  translation  of  an  Indian  book,  in  a  work 
entitled  Mir  at  al-Mddm  (Mirror  of  Various  Thoughts). 
De  Guignes,  Gildemeister,  and  Pertsch  have  all  devoted 
attention  to  this  book.  He  also  left  two  manuals  of 
dialectics  and  controversy  {al-tai-tqa  al-Ainidiyya  and 
al-Irskdd),  and  a  treatise  on  talismans  {Haud  al-kaydi). 

Najm  AL-dIn  Abu'l-Jamal  al-Khiwaqi,  surnamed 
KUBRA,  who  died  in  1221,  wrote  works  on  mysticism  : 
the  Fawdtih  al-Jaindl ;  the  KM  if  al-hd'im,  on  the  ten 
means  whereby  a  man  may  attain  purity  of  the  body 
and  the  soul,  and  so  draw  nearer  to  the  Divinity  ;  and 
two  tracts  on  analogous  subjects. 

Shihab  al-din  Abu  Hafs  'Umar  AL-SuHRAWARot, 
who  must  not  be  confused  with  the  sheikh  who  was 
murdered  at  Bagdad,  and  whose  surnames  were  similar, 
was  born  at  Suhraward  in  1145.  He  studied  Shafi'ite 
law,  and  felt  himself  drawn  towards  mysticism.  At  a 
later  period  we  find  him  settled  as  a  teacher  at  Bagdad, 
where  he  died  in  1234.  He  was  nephew  to  Diya  al-din 
(see  above);  he  studied  under  him,  and  also  under 'Abd- 
al-Qadir  al-Gilani.  His  ^ Awdrif  al-mddrif  (The  Divine 
Gifts  of  Knowledge),  in  which  he  deals  with  the  mysti- 
cism of  the  S£lfis,  has  been  printed  at  Bulaq  ;  his  Kashf 
al-faddih  al-  YUndniyya  is  directed  against  the  study  of 
Greek  philosophy,  and  to  the  support  of  the  Moslem 
religion.  Others  of  his  treatises  are  devoted  to  the  praise 
of  poverty  and  renunciation  of  this  world,  to  descrip- 
tions of  the  various  stages  through  which  the  soul  must 
pass  before  it  can  attain  to  the  knowledge  of  God,  and 
to    remarks    on    the    assumption    of    the    dress   which 


THE  'ABBASIDS  277 

marks  the  dervishes'  consecration  to  the  contemplative 
Hfe. 

MUHYf  AL-DfN  Abii  'Abdallah  Ibn  al-ArabI  (1165- 
1240),  who  was  born  at  Murcia,  went  to  Seville  in  1172, 
and  devoted  his  time  to  the  study  of  the  hadtth  and  of 
jurisprudence.  In  1201  he  began  a  series  of  journeys 
which  brought  him  to  the  Hijaz,  to  Bagdad,  to  Mosul, 
and  into  Asia  Minor.  He  died  at  Damascus,  with- 
out having  been  able  to  get  back  to  his  native  land. 
While  following  the  strict  doctrine  of  the  Zahirites  in 
matters  of  jurisprudence,  he  indulged  in  the  most  dis- 
ordered fancies  as  to  the  mystic  training.  He  wrote  an 
untold  number  of  books,  and  his  inventive  facility,  to- 
gether with  the  great  number  of  his  works  which  have 
come  down  to  us,  has  earned  him  the  reputation  of 
being  the  greatest  mystic  of  the  Moslem  East.  His 
masterpiece,  the  Fut-Ahat  al-  Makkiyya  (Revelations  of 
Mecca),  is  a  treatise  on  mysticism,  in  twelve  volumes ; 
his  Fusils  al-Hikani  (Mosaic  of  Precepts),  on  the  exist- 
ence and  importance  of  the  twenty-seven  chief  prophets, 
was  written  at  Damascus  in  1230,  after  the  Prophet 
Mahomet  had  appeared  to  him;  his  Mashdhid al-asrdr 
al-Qudsiyya  (Apparition  of  the  Sacred  Mysteries)  and  his 
Anwar  (Lights)  were  written  at  Konia  in  1209  ;  his 
Inshd  al-dawd'ir  is  devoted  to  the  explanation  of  man's 
place  in  creationand  its  cosmogony ;  his'  Uqlatal-mustaufiz 
describes  the  denizens  of  the  upper  world,  and  of  this 
lower  one,  the  spirits,  the  throne  of  God,  the  stars,  the 
earth  ;  his  Tuhfat  al-safara  (Gift  Bestowed  on  Travellers) 
details  the  stages  of  the  mystic's  journey  towards  the 
knowledge  of  God ;  his  Hilyat  al-Abddl  (Ornament  of 
the  Ascetics),  a  guide  to  happiness,  was  written  at  Ta'if, 
near  Mecca,  in  1202.     T^ie,  Ktmiyd  al-Sa^dda  (Alchemy 


278  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

of  Happiness)  treats  of  the  properties  and  virtues  of  the 
formula  of  the  belief  in  one  God ;  the  Ifdda  (Informa- 
tion) spealcs  of  the  three  fundamental  branches  of  know- 
ledge— God,  the  rational  world,  and  the  world  of  sense. 
A  certain  number  of  his  treatises  deal  with  the  occult 
sciences,  as  his  studies  of  the  Jafr,  or  cabalistic  work 
ascribed  to  'Alt ;  his  Fdida  (Utility)  turns  on  the  subject 
of  divination  by  means  of  the  letters  of  the  alphabet.  His 
Tarjumdn  al-ashwdq  (Interpreter  of  Love)  is  a  collection 
of  Sufi  poetry  published  at  Mecca  in  1201  ;  he  wrote  a 
commentary  on  his  own  work  to  defend  himself  against 
the  accusation  of  having  sung  the  praises  of  carnal  and 
not  Divine  love.  Many  other  poems  of  the  same  nature 
have  been  collected  under  various  titles.  Of  his  two 
hundred  and  eighty-nine  works,  one  hundred  and  fifty 
have  been  catalogued  by  Brockelmann  as  existing, 
at  the  present  day,  in  different  European  and  Eastern 
libraries. 

The  founder  of  the  religious  order  of  the  Shadhiliyya, 
Abii'l  -  Hasan  'Ali  AL  -  SHADHiLt,  who  was  born  in  a 
small  town  to  the  west  of  Tunis,  died  in  1258,  after 
having  written  al-Muqaddima  al-Ghasziyya  (The  Preface 
of  Gaza),  on  the  duties  of  divine  worship  ;  the  famous 
Hizb  al-bahr  (Litany  of  the  Sea),  a  prayer,  the  formula  of 
which  he  believed  he  had  received  from  Mahomet  him- 
self, and  which  the  traveller  Ibn  Batiita  thought  suffi- 
ciently interesting  to  be  inserted  in  extenso  in  the  story  of 
his  own  adventures  ;  and  other  litanies  of  the  same  kind, 
which  are  still  extant. 

Sadr-Al-d1n  Abu'l-Ma'ali  al-QonawI,  of  Konia,  in 
Asia  Minor,  the  ancient  Iconium,  a  pupil  of  Ibn  'Arabi, 
wrote  a  commentary  on  the  Fatiha,  or  first  chapter  of 
the  Koran,  entitled  PJdz  al-baydn  (Miraculous  Explana- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  279 

tion),  on  the  forty  hadiths,  and  on  the  hundred  names 
of  God  ;  the  Hddiya  (The  Directress)  is  a  tract  on  the 
principles  of  the  Moslem  theodicy  ;  the  Nus{is  is  a 
treatise  on  Sufi  mysticism  ;  the  Miftdh  al-Ghaib  (Key  of 
the  World  of  Mystery)  is  a  scientific  introduction  to 
the  knowledge  of  the  Divine  personality  and  mysteries. 
He  died  in  1273. 

'Izz  al-d1n  'Abdal-salam  Ibn  Ghanim  al-Maqdisi  (or  al- 
Muqaddasi,  that  is  to  say,  he  who  belongs  to  Jerusalem), 
who  died  in  1279,  put  the  praise  of  the  Creator  into  the 
mouth  of  birds  and  flowers,  in  his  Kashf  al-Asrdr  (The 
Mysteries  Unveiled),  which  has  been  published  and  trans- 
lated by  Garcin  de  Tassy  under  the  title  of  Les  Oiseaux  et 
les  Fleurs.  His  Ila/l a/-rum/iz  (Solution  of  the  Problems) 
is  a  treatise  on  mysticism  ;  his  Taflis  Iblis  (The  Devil 
Ruined),  an  imitation  of  Ibn  Jauzi's  Talbis,  is  intended 
to  combat  the  opinion  that  God  has  nothing  to  do  with 
evil,  whereas,  on  the  contrary.  He  purposely  tolerates  it. 

'Izz  al-din  "Abd  al-Aziz  al-DirInI  (1215-1295),  born 
at  Dirin  in  Egypt,  was  the  author  of  a  famous  poem 
on  the  Last  Judgment,  Qilddat  al-durr  al-manshur  (The 
Pearl  Necklace  Displayed),  which  is  generally  placed 
with  Ibn  al-Wardi's  Khartdat  al-Ajd'ib,  or  Cosmo- 
graphy. He  also  produced  other  works,  such  as  the 
Tahdrat  al-QulM  (Purity  of  Hearts),  a  collection  of 
edifying  anecdotes,  counsels,  and  prayers ;  the  Taisir, 
a  didactic  poem  numbering  over  three  thousand  two 
hundred  lines,  on  Koranic  exegesis ;  and  a  refutation 
of  Christianity  {Irshdd  al-haydrd,  the  Guide  for  Wan- 
derers), now  preserved  at  the  Paris  Library. 


CHAPTER   IX 

THE  'ABBASIDS—Con/ina^a'.— SCIENCE 

Translations  from  the  Greek 

After  Alexander's  conquests,  the  Hellenic  spirit  swept 
over  the  whole  of  Asia,  and  in  the  midst  of  a  population 
which  never  gave  a  thought  to  intellectual  cultivation, 
the  Alexandrian  School  long  remained  a  centre  of  eru- 
dition and  scientific  research.  In  spite  of  the  catas- 
trophes that  overtook  the  libraries,  which  had  been  the 
storehouses  of  ancient  thought,  enough  written  books 
remained  in  circulation  to  make  men  feel  the  mind  of 
the  ancients  was  not  altogether  dead.  Syria  and  Meso- 
potamia were  both  influenced  by  Greek  civilisation. 
For  centuries,  in  the  numberless  cloisters  inhabited  by 
Syrian  monks,  the  Greek  works  on  philosophy  and 
science  were  translated  into  the  Syriac  tongue,  and  to 
these  Syrian  reproductions  the  Arab  translators  went  for 
their  material.  The  school  founded  at  Gundeshapur,  in 
Susiana,  by  Chosroes  I.,  in  the  year  350,  had  also  spread 
the  knowledge  of  Greek  learning,  and  the  taste  for  philo- 
sophical and  medical  study,  in  the  East.  In  the  very 
heart  of  Mesopotamia,  the  town  of  Harran,  the  ancient 
Carrhae,  where  Crassus  was  defeated,  had  retained  its 
pagan  faith,  and  there,  by  a  syncretism  which  recalls  the 
days  of  the  later  Roman  Empire,  the  Greek  and  Roman 


THE  ^ABBASIDS  281 

gods  were  allied  with  the  antique  divinities  of  the  Semites. 
This  was  another  centre  of  Hellenic  civilisation,  even  in 
the  midst  of  the  Middle  Ages.  The  dwellers  in  Harran 
were  particularly  addicted  to  mathematical  and  astro- 
nomical studies. 

It  was  the  Caliph  Al-Ma'miin  who,  by  his  foundation 
of  a  university  {bait  al-hikma)  at  Bagdad,  to  which  he 
attached  a  library  and  observatory,  first  gave  impetus, 
in  the  Moslem  world,  to  a  considerable  scientific  move- 
ment, of  which  the  echo  was  taken  up  and  repeated  in 
distant  lands,  and  ultimately,  through  the  medium  of 
Moslem  Spain,  stirred  up  the  sleeping  iiitelligence  of 
Europe.  This  movement  it  was  which  called  forth  a 
mass  of  Arab  translations  of  the  Syriac  manuscripts 
already  translated  from  the  Greek,  thus  further  enrich- 
ing, with  a  fresh  branch,  an  already  very  rich  and  varied 
literature. 

Thus  Al-Hajjaj  al-Hasib  translated  Ptolemy's  Astro- 
nomy under  the  title  by  which  it  is  still  known, 
that  of  the  Almagest,  and  also  Euclid's  Elements ; 
"Yuhanna  ibn  Batriq  (died  815)  translated  Aristotle's 
Politics ;  and  Abdal-Masih  Naima  of  Hims,  Aristotle's 
Theology',  after  Porphyry,  at  the  request  of  Caliph 
AI-Mutasim.  Qusta  ibn  Luq4  of  Baalbek,  well  known 
by  his  original  works  on  medicine,  astronomy,  and 
mathematics,  turned  numbers  of  Greek  works  into 
Arabic ;  Abu  Zaid  Hunain  ibn  Ishiq,  the  son  of  a 
Christian  apothecary  at  Hira,  studied  medicine  under 
Yahyi  ibn  Masawaih,  who  flourished  under  Harun 
al-RashJd,  travelled  through  Asia  Minor,  where  he  had 
an  opportunity  of  learning  Greek,  returned  to  Bagdad, 
where  he  was  chosen  to  be  the  personal  medical  atten- 
dant of  the  Caliph  Al-Mutawakkil,  and  wrote  books  on 
19 


282  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

medicine  and  philosopliy,  at  the  same  time  translating 
the  Old  Testament  out  of  the  Septuagint  into  Arabic, 
not  to  mention  Plato's  Timaeus  and  his  Republic,  Hippo- 
crates' Aphorisms,  the  works  of  Galen  and  Uioscorides, 
and  others.  His  end  was  unfortunate.  He  was  mixed 
up  in  the  quarrel  about  images  which  divided  the  Chris- 
tian Church,  was  excommunicated  by  Bishop  Theo- 
dosius,  and,  in  his  grief,  poisoned  himself,  in  November 
873.  His  son  and  chief  disciple,  Ishaq  ibn  Hunain,  a 
close  friend  of  the  Vizier  Qasim  ibn  'Ubaidallah,  was 
more  of  a  philosopher  than  of  a  physician.  He  trans- 
lated Aristotle's  Categories,  and  died,  paralysed,  in  910. 

After  these  we  hear  of  Hubaish  ibn  al-Hasan,  the 
nephew  of  Ishaq,  whom  he  assisted  in  his  labours,  who 
translated  Dioscorides  and  Galen  ;  Abu  Bishr  Matta 
ibn  Yunus,  who  died  at  Bagdad  in  940,  and  turned 
his  attention  to  Aristotle's  Art  of  Poetry ;  and  Abu 
Zakariyya  Yahya  ibn  'Adi,  surnamed  the  Logician,  a 
Jacobite  Christian,  of  whom  nothing  remains  to  us 
beyond  his  name,  as  is  also  the  case  with  regard  to  the 
physician  Ibn  Zer'a,  of  the  same  Christian  confession, 
who  translated  works  on  medicine  and  philosophy. 

Philosophy 

The  perusal  of  the  translations  of  Aristotle  gave  birth 
to  a  study  of  philosophy,  which  remained  restricted, 
in  the  Moslem  world,  within  the  comparatively  narrow 
circle  of  learned  men  and  thinkers.  It  never  took 
hold  of  the  common  people,  but  was  received  with 
enthusiasm  amongst  the  labourers  in  the  intellectual 
field.  So  early  as  in  the  days  of  Caliph  Al-Mu  tasim, 
towards  840,  Shibab  al-din  Ibn  Abi'1-Rabi'  composed,  at 


THE  'ABBASIDS  283 

his  sovereign's  request,  a  treatise  on  politics,  preceded  by 
some  reflections  on  psychology,  which  may  perhaps  be 
looked  on  as  the  oldest  work  of  the  kind  in  the  Arabic 
tongue.  It  is  now  preserved  in  the  Paris  Library, 
and  has  been  printed  at  Cairo  {Suliik  al-Mdlikfi  tadbir 
al-Mamdlik).  After  him  comes  Ya'qub  ibn  Ishaq  al- 
Kindi,  the  son  of  the  Governor  of  Kufa,  who  belonged 
to  an  old  Arab  family.  He  was  born  at  Kufa,  and 
studied  first  at  Bassora  and  then  at  Bagdad,  where  he 
finally  settled.  He  was  included  in  the  prosecutions 
which  were  the  outcome  of  the  orthodox  reaction  in  the 
time  of  Mutawakkil,  saw  his  library  confiscated,  and  was 
not  able  to  obtain  its  restoration  till  a  short  time  before 
the  Caliph's  death  and  his  own.  He  wrote  some  two 
hundred  works  on  the  most  varied  subjects. 

Ahmad  ibn  al-Tayyib  al-Sarakhsi,  who  was  born  at 
Sarakhs  in  Khurasan,  is  better  known  under  his  sur- 
name of  TiLMiDH  AL-KlNDi,  the  pupil  of  Al-Kindi ;  none 
of  his  works  are  now  extant.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
suite  in  attendance  on  the  Caliph  Al-Mutadid,  whose 
tutor  he  had  been ;  and,  as  a  punishment  for  having 
betrayed  a  secret  entrusted  to  him,  he  was  thrown  into 
prison  and  put  to  death  in  the  year  899. 

Abu  Nasr  Muhammad  AL-FARABt,  who  was  born  at 
Farab,  the  modern  Otrar,  belonged  to  a  Turkish  family 
of  Transoxania.  He  studied  medicine  and  philosophy 
at  Bagdad.  Attracted  to  Aleppo  by  the  glamour  of  the 
court  of  Saif  al-daula,  a  patron  of  arts  and  learning, 
he  lived  there  retired  from  the  world,  giving  his  lessons 
in  the  delightful  gardens  which  surround  the  town,  and 
died  at  Damascus  in  950,  while  attending  his  master 
on  a  journey.  He  wrote  on  logic,  morals,  politics, 
mathematics,  alchemy,  and  music.     Ibn  Khallikan  calls 


284  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

him  the  greatest  philosopher  Islam  ever  produced.  It 
is  to  him  that  Avicenna  owed  his  learning,  and  so 
illustrious  a  pupil  must  needs  have  had  a  great  master. 
When  he  reached  Bagdad  he  knew  no  Arabic,  and  to 
acquire  it  was  the  first  object  of  his  study.  When  he 
had  mastered  the  language,  he  was  able  to  profit  by  the 
teachings  of  Abu  Bishr  Matta  ibn  Yunus,  who  was 
teaching  logic.  Al-Farabi  filled  seventy  volumes  with 
the  notes  he  took  at  these  lectures,  which  explained 
Aristotle's  treatise  on  logic.  He  read  the  Greek  philo- 
sopher's treatise  on  the  soul  two  hundred  times  over. 
"  If  I  had  lived  in  his  days,"  he  was  fond  of  saying,  "  I 
should  have  been  his  chief  disciple." 

His  Utopian  ideas  of  a  model  city — an  adaptation  of 
Plato's  Republic — are  of  the  most  curious  description. 
They  are  the  ideas  of  a  philosopher,  not  those  of  a 
politician  or  a  lawyer.  Men,  according  to  him,  must 
have  a  monarchical  government  and  a  religious  faith. 
The  most  perfect  State  would  be  one  which  should  in- 
clude the  whole  of  the  inhabited  globe.  In  such  a 
universal  monarchy  the  governed  classes  would  need 
to  be  saints  and  their  rulers  sages.  Yet  the  author 
admits  that  if  one  man  did  not  possess  all  the  qualities 
he  would  require  of  the  monarch,  a  second,  a  third, 
and  even  more  might  be  associated  with  him  ;  this  fine 
system  would  soon  end  in  an  aristocratic  republic. 

In  966  an  Arab  from  Jerusalem,  Mutahhar  ibn  Tahir 
al-Maqdisi,  being  at  Bust  in  Sijistan,  drew  up,  at  the 
request  of  the  minister  of  one  of  the  Samanid  princes, 
a  summary  of  the  learning  of  his  times,  under  the  title 
of  Kitdb  al-bad'  wa'l-tdrikh  (Book  of  the  Creation  and  of 
History),  in  which  he  imparts  to  the  public,  besides  the 
common  stock  of  Moslem  erudition,  the  fruits  of  his 


THE  'ABBASIDS  285 

own  personal  investigations,  of  his  conversations  with 
Zoroastrian  priests  and  Jewish  Rabbis.  This  work  was 
later  ascribed,  nobody  can  tell  why,  to  the  philosopher 
AbCi  Zaid  Ahmad  ibn  Sahl  al-Balkhi,  and  catalogued 
under  his  name.  A  copy  of  the  unique  manuscript,  now 
in  a  library  at  Constantinople,  was  brought  from  the 
East  by  the  writer  of  these  lines,  and  is,  together  with 
his  translation  of  it,  in  actual  course  of  publication  by 
the  Ecole  des  Langues  Orientales  Vivantes,  in  Paris. 

The  Buwaihid  capture  of  Bagdad  in  945,  and  the  con- 
dition of  tutelage  to  which  the  'Abbasid  Caliph  was 
thereby  reduced,  leaving  him  in  the  position  of  an 
automaton  with  a  merely  spiritual  power,  gave  some 
life  to  free  philosophic  speculation,  which  had  been 
shackled  by  the  successful  religious  reaction  under 
Mutawakkil  and  his  successors.  These  princes,  de- 
scended from  a  poor  fisherman  in  Tabaristan,  who 
became  a  condottiere  in  the  service  of  the  chief  of  that 
province,  were  Shfites,  and  cared  but  little  for  the 
progress  of  orthodoxy.  Under  the  shelter  of  this  com- 
parative liberty  a  society  of  philosophers,  who  called 
themselves  Ikhwdn  al-Safd  (Brothers  of  Purity),  was 
formed,  towards  the  middle  of  the  fourth  century  of 
the  Hegira,  at  Bassora.  This  body  set  forth,  in  fifty-one 
treatises,  the  whole  sum  of  Arab  philosophy.  Its  cele- 
brated work  has  been  translated  into  German,  and  a 
study  of  it  has  been  produced  in  the  same  language  by 
F.  Dieterici. 

Abu  'Ali  al-Husain  lEN  SIna,  known  as  Avicenna, 
was  the  son  of  the  governor  of  a  small  town  near 
Bukhari ;  he  was  born  in  980,  and  studied  philo- 
sophy and  medicine  simultaneously  in  the  chief  town 
of  his  native  province.     When  he  was  barely  eighteen. 


2  86  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

his  wonderful  cure  of  the  Sfimanid  Prince  Nuh,  son 
of  Mansur,  opened  the  palace  gates  to  him.  At  two- 
and-twenty,  his  father  having  died,  he  went  to  the 
court  of  the  King  of  Khwarizm  (Khiva),  'All  ibn 
Mansur,  travelled  in  Khurasan  and  Jurjan,  and  re- 
mained in  the  latter  country  for  some  time,  as  a 
teacher.  There  he  produced  his  masterpiece  in  medi- 
cal science,  Qdnun  fil-tibb  (Canon  of  Medicine).  He 
proceeded  later  to  Rai  and  Qazvin,  and  as  far  as 
Hamadhan,  where  he  became  minister  in  the  service  of 
the  Buwaihid  Prince  Shams  al-daula,  but  was  forced 
by  the  military  party  to  resign  his  office.  Under  the 
son  and  successor  of  this  prince,  Taj  al-daula,  he  was 
accused  of  high  treason  and  shut  up  in  a  fortress,  from 
which  he  contrived  to  escape,  and  took  refuge  with 
'Ala  al-daula  Abu  Ja'far  Ibn  Dushmanziyar,  at  Ispahan. 
Worn  out  by  excessive  labour  and  by  debauchery,  he 
died  of  an  illness  contracted  in  the  course  of  a  campaign 
against  Hamadhan. 

His  works  cover  the  whole  field  of  the  learning 
cultivated  in  the  East  of  that  day.  In  theology,  he 
wrote  risdlas,  or  tracts,  on  various  suras  of  the  Koran, 
on  the  Last  Judgment,  on  miracles,  dreams,  magic,  and 
talismans.  But  philosophy  was  his  special  subject.  His 
Shifd  is  a  treatise  on  logic,  physics,  mathematics,  and 
astronomy.  When  he  was  accused  of  having  displayed 
enmity  to  the  doctrines  of  the  Koran  in  this  work,  he 
wrote  a  letter  to  his  favourite  pupil,  'Ubaid  Allah,  of 
Juzajan,  to  clear  himself.  His  Ishdrdt  wa  l-ianbihdt,  a 
manual  of  logic,  has  been  published  and  translated  by 
Forget  at  Leyden  under  the  title  of  Livre  des  tkeoremes 
et  des  avertissements.  His  ''UyAn  al-hikina  (Sources  of 
Wisdom)   is    devoted   to    logic,    physics,    and   theology. 


THE  'ABBASIDS  287 

His  Hayy  ibn  Yaqsdn,  a  treatise  on  mysticism,  has 
been  translated  by  Mehren.  Baron  Carra  de  Vaux 
has  published,  translated,  and  commentated  his  Ode  on 
the  Soul.  His  Khutbat  al-Gharrd  (Brilliant  Sermon)  has 
been  edited  by  Golius.  The  Tract  of  the  Birds  {Risdlat 
al-tair)  is  a  mystic  parable  on  captive  birds.  His  re- 
futation of  astrology  shows  how  the  great  physician 
had  cast  off  the  most  tenacious  prejudices  of  his  time, 
which  have  by  no  means  disappeared  from  the  East  even 
at  the  present  day.  Avicenna's  didactic  poem  on  logic, 
in  two  hundred  and  ninety-nine  lines,  has  been  published 
by  Schmoelders. 

In  the  domain  of  natural  and  physical  science,  besides 
some  half  score  of  tracts  on  astronomy  and  physics,  we 
find  the  code  of  medicine,  the  famous  QdnAn,  on  which 
so  many  commentaries  have  been  written,  and  some 
didactic  poems,  such  as  the  Mansiima,  or  poem  on 
medicine,  in  three  thousand  one  hundred  and  thirteen 
lines,  and  another  on  anatomy. 

Abu'1-Wafa  Mubashshir  ibn  Fatik,  an  Egyptian 
Amir,  wrote,  in  the  year  1053,  a  book  of  sayings  of 
all  the  wise  men  of  the  ancient  times  and  the  Middle 
Ages,  cdAXed  Mukktdr  al-Hikam  (Selected  Thoughts) ;  the 
part  of  this  work  relating  to  the  legend  of  Alexander  has 
been  published  and  translated  by  Meissner. 

Abu  Bakr  al-Turtushi  IBN  AbI  Randaqa  (1059- 
II 26)  was  born  at  Tortosa.  He  studied  Malikite  law 
at  Saragossa  and  literature  at  Seville,  made  the  pil- 
grimage in  1083,  and  travelled  in  the  East.  He  went 
as  far  as  Bagdad,  halted  in  Egypt  on  his  return,  and 
settled  at  Alexandria,  where  he  died.  He  was  then  a 
teacher  of  the  traditions.  His  Sirdj  al-MuMk  (Torch 
of  the  Kings)  is  a  guide  to  conduct  for  royal  personages ; 


288  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

it  was  finished  at  Old  Cairo  in  1122,  and  dedicated  to 
the  Vizier  AI-Ma'mun.  His  life  was  that  of  a  devout 
ascetic,  who  made  a  practice  of  mortifying  his  body, 
and  his  existence  was  that  of  a  poor  man,  content  with 
very  little. 

The  philosopher  Avenpace  (Abu  Bakr  Ibn  al-Sa'igh 
Ibn  Bajja)  was  born  at  Saragossa.  He  lived  at  Seville 
and  Grenada,  and  later  proceeded  to  the  Moravid  court 
at  Fez,  where  he  was  poisoned  at  the  ins-tance  of  the 
physician  Abu'l-'Ala.  Ibn  Zuhr,  in  1138.  In  addition  to 
his  philosophical  studies,  he  bestowed  his  attention  on 
music.  We  have  twenty-four  small  works  of  his,  on 
philosophy,  medicine,  and  the  natural  sciences,  a  fare- 
well letter,  and  a  poem  about  hunting,  Tardiyya.  His 
enemies  looked  on  him  as  a  freethinker. 

Ibn  Tufail,  who  was  born  at  Cadiz,  was  Avenpace's 
pupil  in  philosophy  and  medicine.  He  entered  the 
service  of  the  Governor  of  Grenada  as  his  secretary, 
and  afterwards  became  private  physician  and  minister 
to  the  Almohad  Prince  Yusuf,  at  whose  court,  at 
Morocco,  he  died  in  1185.  His  Asrdr  al-hikmat  al- 
Mashriqiyya  (Secrets  of  Illuminative  Wisdom)  has  been 
printed  at  Bulaq.  His  philosophic  novel,  Hayy  ibn 
Yaqzdn,  which  represents  the  awakening  of  the  intelli- 
gence of  a  child  born  alone  in  the  desert,  has  been 
published  at  Oxford  by  E.  Pococke,  under  the  title  of 
Philosophus  Autodidactus.  He  strove  to  reconcile  the 
revealed  law  with  philosophy. 

Abu'l-Walid  Ibn  Rushd,  who  is  known  as  Averroes 
(1126-1198),  who  belonged  to  a  family  of  lawyers,  was 
born  at  Cordova,  and  received  his  education  there.  He 
went  to  Morocco  in  1153,  and  was  there  presented  to  the 
Almohad  King,  Yusuf,  by  Ibn  Tufail.      In  1169  he  was 


THE  'ABBASIDS  289 

appointed  qddt  at  Seville,  and  two  years  later  he  returned 
to  his  native  city,  whence  he  was  summoned  by  Yilsuf, 
who  would  have  appointed  him  his  body  physician,  but 
the  man  of  learning  was  soon  back  at  Cordova  as  qddt. 
Towards  the  close  of  his  life  he  was  exiled,  and  interned 
at  Elisana,  not  far  from  Cordova,  by  Yusuf's  successor, 
Ya'qub  al-Mansur,  who  suspected  him  of  heresy  on 
account  of  his  studies  in  philosophy.  Notwithstanding 
this,  he  was  once  more  summoned  to  Morocco,  and  died 
there  on  loth  December  1198.  He  left  us  his  Fast  al- 
Maqdl  (Decisive  Discourse),  in  which  he  endeavours  to 
reconcile  Moslem  law  with  science ;  a  refutation  of 
Ghazali's  Talidfut,  which  he  entitled  Tahdfut  al-tahdfut 
(The  Collapse  of  the  Collapse),  the  Arabic  text  of  which 
has  been  printed  at  Cairo  ;  a  work  on  therapeutics,  called 
Kidliyydt;  and  his  commentary  on  Aristotle's  Poetry  and 
Rhetoric,  which  has  been  published  and  translated  into 
Italian  by  F.  Lasinio.  A  fragment  of  the  commentary  of 
Alexander  of  Aphrodisias  on  the  metaphysics  of  the 
great  Stagyrite  philosopher  has  been  translated  by 
Freudenthal. 

Burhan  al-din  al-ZarnIjjI  wrote,  towards  1203,  the 
Tallin  al-mutd allim  (Instruction  for  Him  who  Desires 
to  Learn),  a  manual  of  which  many  copies  are  in  exis- 
tence, and  which  has  been  published  first  by  Reland, 
and  then  by  Caspari,  under  the  title  of  Enchiridion 
Studiosi. 

Many  books  were  written  to  meet  the  needs  of 
students.  Abu  'Abdallah  al-Khawinj1,  who  was  born 
in  1 194,  of  a  Persian  family,  became  qddt  at  Cairo, 
and  died  in  1248,  wrote,  when  at  Mecca,  in  1227,  a 
summary  of  this  description,  called  al-Jumal,  or  al- 
Mujiz,  and  also  a  fuller  treatise  entitled  Kashf  al-asrdr 


2go  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

(The  Secrets  Unveiled).  Athir  al-din  Mufaddal  al- 
Abhari,  who  died  in  1264,  composed  a  Hiddyat  al-hikma 
(Guide  to  Wisdom),  which  treats,  in  Arabic,  of  logic, 
physics,  and  metaphysics,  and  a  Kiidb  al-tsdgkAji, 
after  the  Elaaywyij,  or  introduction  to  the  Categories  of 
Aristotle,  by  Porphyry.  Najm  al-din  'AH  al-KatibI,  of 
Qazvin,  who  died  in  1276,  wrote,  on  the  command  of 
Shams  al-din  Muhammad  Juwaini,  and  in  his  honour, 
a  treatise  called  Al-Risdla  al-shamsiyya,  published  by 
Sprenger  as  an  appendix  to  the  Dictionary  of  the 
Technical  Terms ;  the  Hikinat  al-Ain  (Philosophy  of  the 
Essence),  on  physics  and  metaphysics,  and  the  Jdnii^ 
al-daqaiq,  on  the  same  subjects.  Siraj  al-din  Abu'l- 
Thana  AL-URMAWi,  who  died  in  1283,  wrote  the  Matdli" 
al-aiiwdr,  on  logic. 

The  controversy  and  dialectics  of  this  period  claim  the 
names  of  Burhan  al-din  AL-Nasaf!  (1209-1288),  with 
his  FusAl,  his  Muqaddima,  and  other  similar  books,  and 
of  Shams  al-din  AL-Samarqandi,  who  wrote  a  Risdla, 
the  Qustds,  and  the  ''Ain  al-Nazar,  on  logic,  the  Sahd'if, 
on  dogmatics,  and  the  Ashkdl  al-tdsts,  on  Euclid's 
geometry. 

'Abdal-Haqq  Ibn  Sab'In,  who  was  born  at  Murcia, 
and  is  known  as  the  founder  of  the  mystic  sect  of  the 
Sab'iniyya,  was  at  Ceuta  when  the  Almohad  Sultan 
"Abdal-Wahid  ordered  him  to  reply  to  certain  philo- 
sophical questions  set  the  learned  Arabs  by  the  German 
Emperor  Frederick  of  Hohenstaufen.  His  correspon- 
dence on  this  subject  has  been  published  and  com- 
mented on  in  the  Asiatic  Journal,  by  A.  F.  Mehren. 
Ibn  Sab'in  committed  suicide  in  1269,  at  Mecca,  by 
opening  the  veins  of  his  wrist.  He  left  an  introduction 
to  metaphysics,  called  Budd  al-diif ;  another  work  called 


THE  'ABBASIDS  291 

Asrdr  al-Hikmat  al-mashriqijff  a  {Mysievits  of  Illuminism), 
and  prayers  in  which  every  word  begins  with  the 
letter  q. 

Shams  al-din  AL-SHAHRAZtJRl  el-Ishraqi,  in  the 
seventh  century  of  the  Hegira,  wrote,  besides  his 
RuiifAz  wd l-amthdl  al-ldh-Atiyya  (Divine  Mysteries  and 
Parables)  and  his  Shajarat  al-ildhiyya  (The  Divine 
Tree),  a  history  of  the  philosophers,  from  Adam  down 
to    Galen,    entitled    Raudat   al-afrdh   (The    Garden    of 

Joys). 

Mathematics 

Mathematical  study,  as  we  have  seen,  moved  abreast 
with  that  of  philosophy.  There  is  no  doubt  that  geo- 
metry was  derived  solely  from  Greek  sources,  and 
Euclid's  Ele^nents  more  particularly.  But  it  may  fairly 
be  questioned  whether  arithmetic  owes  much  to  Indian 
science.  According  to  Brockelmann,  it  was  the  adop- 
tion of  the  Indian  numerals  which  permitted  the  Arabs 
to  make  great  progress  in  that  science.  But  this 
adoption  is  of  recent  date,  and  the  Arabs,  like  the 
Greeks,  made  use  of  the  numerical  value  of  the  letters 
in  their  own  alphabet  before  they  passed  on  to  the 
decimal  system  of  numeration  which  originated  in  India, 
and  has  since,  under  the  name  of  Arabic  figures,  tra- 
velled round  the  world,  but  which  may  possibly  have 
been  borrowed  by  the  Indians  from  the  system  of  the 
abacus  (the  empty  compartment  representing  the  zero), 
probably  invented  in  Alexandria  in  the  earliest  centuries 
of  the  Christian  era.  The  Arab  author  of  the  tenth 
century,  Mutahhar  ibn  Tahir,  who  wrote  the  Kitdb  al-bad' 
wa'l-Tdrtkh  (The  Book  of  Creation  and  of  History),  notes, 
as  a  curiosity  in  Indian  or  devanagari  numerals,  a  pretty 


292  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

high  figure  ascribed  by  Indian  populations  to  the  length 
of  the  duration  of  this  world.  In  his  day,  it  is  evident, 
Arabic  numerals  did  not  as  yet  exist  in  the  form  the 
Arabs  afterwards  gave  them,  and  Indian  numerals, 
though  known  to  the  learned,  were  not  in  current  use ; 
otherwise  neither  this  writer  nor  his  readers  would  have 
thought  there  was  anything  remarkable  in  the  appearance 
of  the  numeral  he  quotes. 

The  earliest  of  the  Arab  mathematicians  was  Abu 
'Abdallah  al-Khwarizmi,  who  lived  under  the  Caliphate 
of  Ma'mun,  about  820.  At  the  request  of  this  prince, 
he  prepared  an  extract  from  the  Indian  work  called 
Siddhdnta,  and  undertook  a  revision  of  Ptolemy's 
Tables.  His  works  on  algebra  and  arithmetic,  which 
were  early  translated  into  Latin,  found  their  way  all 
over  Europe.  My  readers  are  aware  that  the  word 
algorithm  is  derived  from  his  ethnical  surname  of  Al- 
Khwarizmi  (he  came  from  Khwarizm,  the  ancient  Khanate 
of  Khiva).  At  Ma'mun's  court,  too,  dwelt  the  three 
sons  of  Musa  ibn  Shakir  —  Muhammad,  Ahmad,  and 
Al-Hasan — who  wrote  a  great  many  technical  treatises. 
But  the  most  prominent  mathematician  of  that  day  was 
a  Sabian  belonging  to  Harran,  Thabit  ibn  Qurra.  He 
originally  followed  the  trade  of  a  money-changer,  but 
went  to  Bagdad  to  study  science,  quarrelled  over  theo- 
logical inatters  with  his  co-religionists,  after  returning 
to  his  native  town,  and  was  cast  out  of  their  com- 
munity. He  retired  to  Kafartutha,  there  made  the 
acquaintance  of  Muhammad,  son  of  Musi  ibn  Shakir, 
to  whom  we  have  just  referred,  was  taken  by  him  to 
Bagdad,  and  presented  to  the  Caliph  Al-Mutadid. 
At  Bagdad  he  devoted  himself  exclusively  to  writing 
medical    and    mathematical    works,    and   specially    in- 


THE  'ABBASIDS  293 

terested   himself   in    the    theory  of   numerals ;    he  died 
there  on  i8th  February  901. 

Woepcke  has  given  his  views  on  a  theory  added  by 
Thabit  ibn  Qurra  to  the  speculative  arithmetic  of  the 
Greeks  ;  the  Fifth  book  of  the  Conic  Sections  of  Apol- 
lonius  of  Perga  has  been  published  and  translated  into 
German  by  L.  Nix ;  other  works  in  manuscript  are 
preserved  in  public  libraries.  His  son  Sinan  was  body 
physician  to  the  Caliphs  Muqtadir  and  Qahir ;  he 
yielded  to  their  threats,  and  ended  by  becoming  a 
Moslem  ;  but  his  concession  did  not  disarm  them,  and 
he  took  fright  and  fied  to  Khurasan,  but  ultimately 
returned,  and  died  at  Bagdad  in  942.  His  mathematical 
and  historical  works  are  lost.  All  now  remaining  to  us 
are  the  works  on  the  dimensions  of  parabolas,  written 
by  his  son  Ibrihim,  who  died  in  946.  Abu  Bakr  al- 
Karkhi,  thus  surnamed  after  one  of  the  suburbs  of 
Bagdad,  is  known  as  having  dedicated  an  epitome  of 
arithmetic  (an  extract  from  which  has  been  published 
by  Woepcke,  and  which  has  been  translated  into  German 
by  Hochheim)  to  Fakhr  al-Mulk,  minister  to  the  Buwaihid 
prince,  Baha  al-daula. 

Ibn  al-Haitham  held  a  Government  appointment  in 
his  native  town,  Bassora,  with  the  title  of  vizier,  and 
had  already  earned  a  reputation  for  mathematical  know- 
ledge, when  Caliph  al-Hakim,  hearing  he  had  boasted 
of  his  ability  to  regularise  the  periodical  inundations  of 
the  Nile,  summoned  him  to  his  court.  He  travelled  up  ■' 
the  river  as  far  as  Assouan,  and  convinced  himself  of  the 
impossibility  of  carrying  out  his  plan.  The  Caliph,  to 
indemnify  him  for  his  trouble,  gave  him  an  administra- 
tive post  at  Cairo,  the  duties  of  which  he  was  not  able  to 
perform.     This  roused  the  sovereign's  rage  against  him, 


294  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

and  he  hid  himself  till  his  master's  death  in  1020,  when 
he  recovered  his  confiscated  property,  and  turned  his 
whole  attention  to  literary  labours.  He  died  in  1038. 
Sedillot  has  written  a  notice  of  Ibn  al-Haitham's  treatise 
on  geometrical  knowledge.  His  treatise  on  optics 
{Ta/mr  al-mundzara)  was  published  and  translated  by 
Fr.  Roesner  at  Basle  in  1572  under  the  title  of  Opticce 
thesaurus  Alhazeni. 

Abu'1-Fath  'Umar  al-Khayyam,  the  Persian  poet, 
celebrated  for  his  mystic  quatrains  in  that  tongue,  and 
universally  known  by  the  paraphrase  of  FitzGerald,  was 
also  a  mathematician,  and  used  the  Arabic  for  his  scien- 
tific works.  His  treatise  on  algebra  has  been  published 
and  translated  into  French  by  Woepcke.  The  Leyden 
Library  possesses  a  commentary  on  Euclid  of  his  com- 
position, and  that  of  Gotha  a  treatise  on  the  chemical 
analysis  of  minerals,  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the 
relative  quantities  of  gold  and  silver  in  an  amalgam  of 
the  two  inetals.  He  was  astronomer,  and  more  espe- 
cially astrologer,  to  the  Seljuqid  Sultan  Malik-Shah. 
He  it  was  who  proceeded  to  the  reform  of  the  Calendar 
known  under  the  name  of  the  Jalalian  era,  after  the 
surname  Jalal  al-din,  which  was  borne  by  Malik-Shah. 
He  died  in  1121. 

Mahmud  AL-Jaghmin1  al-Khwarizmi,  who  died  in 
1221,  wrote  an  abridged  astronomy  {Alulakhkkas  fi'l- 
hai'a),  which  was  translated  into  German  by  Rudloff 
and  Hochheim  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society. 

Abu'l-Hasan  'All  al-Marrakushi  (or,  according  to  the 
Leyden  MS.,  Abu  'Ah  al-Hasan)  wrote,  in  1230,  his 
Jdmi"  al-mabddi'  wa'l-ghdydt  (Meeting  of  the  Beginnings 
and  the  Ends),  which  has  been  translated  into  French 


THE  'ABBASIDS  295 

by  J.  S.  S^dillot,  and  published  by  his  son  under  the  title 
of  Traite  des  instruments  astronomiques  des  Arabes. 

Yahya  Ibn  AbI  Shukr,  who  bore  the  honorary  title 
of  Muhyi' l-milla  wdl-dtn  (Revivifier  of  the  People  and 
of  Religion),  was  of  Spanish  origin.  He  was  a  con- 
temporary of  the  Syriac  historian,  Bar  Hebraeus,  and 
lived  first  of  all  in  Syria,  and  then  at  the  court  of 
the  Mongol  Emperor  Hulagu.  Besides  writing  many 
astrological  and  astronomical  works,  he  gave  his  atten- 
tion to  the  Co7iic  Sections  of  Apollonius  of  Perga,  and 
the  Spherics  of  Menelaus  and  Theodosius,  and  also  to 
the  computation  of  time  amongst  the  Chinese  and  the 
Uigurs. 

Astronomy  and  Astrology 

The  one  cannot  live  without  the  other.  For  centuries 
the  astronomer's  only  means  of  ensuring  himself  the 
necessaries  of  life  and  study  was  by  selling  astrological 
formulce.  Who  cared  for  the  movements  of  the  stars  ? 
But  in  the  casting  of  horoscopes,  the  knowledge  of  the 
dim  and  slow-moving  future,  there  lay  interest  alike 
for  states  and  for  private  individuals  1  At  a  very  early 
date,  in  the  beginning  of  the  third  century  of  the 
Hegira,  we  find  a  popular  treatise  on  astrology,  in 
twelve  chapters,  after  the  twelve  Signs  of  the  Zodiac, 
by  Abu  Yiisuf  Yaqub  al-Qarshi,  which  is  now  in  the 
Berlin  Library.  A  little  later,  Ahmad  ibn  Muhammad 
al-Farghani,  of  whom  we  know  nothing  more,  beyond 
the  fact  that  in  861  he  built  a  new  Nilometer  in  Egypt, 
wrote  an  astronomical  treatise,  which  rendered  him 
famous  all  over  Europe,  under  the  name  of  Alfraganus, 
and  was  translated  into  Latin,  and  published  by  Golius 
at  Amsterdam  in  1669. 


296  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

In  885  the  great  astronomer  Abu  Ma'shar  Ja'far 
ibn  Muhammad  died  at  Wasit.  He  belonged  to  Balkh, 
in  Central  Asia,  and  was  known  in  the  Middle  Ages  as 
Albumaser.  If  Europe  admires  his  astronomical  attain- 
ments, the  East  marvels  at  his  powers  of  divination  and 
his  astrological  performances,  whereby  he  discovered 
treasures,  and  recovered  objects  which  had  gone  astray. 
Of  his  compositions  we  still  possess  the  Madkhal,  or 
introduction  to  astrology,  and  other  astronomical  works, 
preserved  in  manuscript  in  various  European  libraries. 

Muhammad  ibn  Jabir  al-Battani,  famous  in  Europe 
under  the  narne  of  Albategnius,  was  a  Sabian  of  Harran. 
At  Raqqa,  on  the  Euphrates,  where  he  lived,  he  took 
astronomical  observations  from  882  to  900,  and  there 
drew  up  his  Tables,  which  arc  now  at  the  Escurial,  and 
which  Signer  Nallino  is  translating  into  Latin,  and  pub- 
lishing at  Milan.  He  was  going  to  Bagdad  to  prosecute 
a  lawsuit,  in  929,  when  he  died  in  a  little  town  on 
his  road.  Towards  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century 
his  Tables,  which  were  translated  by  Plato  Tiburtius 
under  the  title  of  De  Scieniid  Siellarum,  and  printed  at 
Nurnberg  in  1537,  were  still  valued  by  Lalande. 

Besides  these  great  names,  we  may  also  cite  those  of 
the  following  Persians  :  KiJshyar  ibn  Labban,  author 
of  various  astrological  and  astronomical  works,  circa  961 ; 
Abu  Nasr  al-Qummi,  circa  968;  Abu'l-Husain  'Abdal- 
Rahman  al-Siifi,  of  Rai,  an  astronomer  in  the  service 
of  the  Buwaihid  Prince  'Adud  al-daula,  who  died  in  986, 
wrote  a  description  of  the  fixed  stars,  which  has  been 
translated  into  French  by  Schelljerup  at  St.  Petersburg  in 
1874,  and  a  memoir  on  the  astrolabe,  of  which  Bernard 
Dorn  has  made  use  for  one  of  his  studies  ;  Abu  Sahl 
Waijan     ibn    Rustam    al-Kuhi,    ciixa   990;    Abu'1-Wafa 


THE  'ABBASIDS  297 

Muhammad  al-Buzjani,  who  came  from  a  large  village 
near  Nishapur  in  Khurasin,  died  in  997,  wrote  an  imitation 
of  Ptolemy's  Almagest,  and,  by  his  deductions  of  certain 
previously  unknown  corollaries,  earned  the  reputation  of 
a  great  geometrician — it  is  doubtful  whether,  as  Sedillot 
believed,  he  discovered  the  third  inequality  on  the  moon's 
surface  before  Tycho  Brah^.  After  these  Persians  came 
'All  ibn  Abi  Sa'id  al-Sadafi,  who  was  astronomer  to  the 
Fatimid  Caliph  of  Egypt,  Al-Hikim,  to  whom  he  dedi- 
cated his  great  Hdkimite  Table,  dealt  with  by  Caussin 
de  Perceval  in  Notices  et  Extraits — he  died  in  1008 ; 
Abu'I-Hasan  'Ali  ibn  Abi'l-Rijal,  in  Africa,  whose 
book  on  astrology  was  translated  into  Latin,  and  pub- 
lished at  Basle  under  the  title  of  Albohazen  in  1551  ;  and 
Abu'l-Qasim  al-Ghafiqi,  a  Spanish  physician  and  mathe- 
matician, whose  treatise  on  the  astrolabe  is  preserved  in 
the  British  Museum. 

Geography 

The  geography  of  the  Arabs  is  of  Greek  origin ;  Al- 
Kindi  had  Ptolemy's  work  on  geography  translated  for 
him,  and  this  translation  was  improved  at  a  later  date 
by  Thabit  ibn  Qurra ;  it  is  now  lost.  The  most  ancient 
abridged  geography  in  our  possession  is  the  SArat 
al-ard  (Face  of  the  Earth),  by  Muhammad  ibn  Mus4 
al-Khwarizmi  (1036),  which  has  been  studied  by  W.  Spitta 
and  C.  Nallino.  But  the  Arabic  tongue,  in  response  to 
the  political  and  economic  needs  of  the  huge  empire  the 
Caliphs  had  to  rule,  was  soon  able  to  produce  descrip- 
tive geographical  works  of  immense  interest  in  their 
bearing  on  our  knowledge  of  the  East  of  the  Middle 
Ages,  and  some  of  the  most  eminent  Orientalists  have 


298  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

been  content  to  limit  their  attention  to  their  study  and 
publication.  The  postmasters  of  the  horse-posts — those 
functionaries  who,  both  in  the  capital  and  in  the  pro- 
vincial centres,  were  responsible  for  the  transmission 
of  the  Government  correspondence,  and  at  the  same 
time  were  expected  to  keep  the  central  authority  in- 
formed of  everything  that  occurred  all  over  that  huge 
empire— wrote  descriptions  of  the  countries  ruled  by 
the  Koran,  to  facilitate  the  performance  of  their  own 
official  duties.  Ibn  Khurdadbeh  ('Ubaidallah  ibn  'Ab- 
dallah)  was  of  Persian  descent ;  his  grandfather,  who 
was  a  fire-worshipper,  had  become  a  convert  to  Islam, 
and  his  father  was  for  some  time  governor  of  the  pro- 
vince of  Tabaristan  on  the  Caspian  Sea.  He  himself 
lived  at  Bagdad,  and  there  made  the  acquaintance  of 
the  famous  musician  Ishaq,  of  Mosul,  who  instructed 
him  in  music  and  belles-lettres.  He  was  ultimately  sent 
to  'Iraq  as  a  director  of  posts,  and  was  at  Samarra  on 
the  Tigris  between  844  and  848,  when  he  wrote  his 
Book  of  the  Roads  and  Provinces,  which  accurately  gives 
the  postal  stations  and  the  amount  of  taxation  in  each 
province.  Barbier  de  Meynard  was  the  first  to  translate 
and  publish  this  work,  of  which,  at  a  later  date,  De 
Goeje  issued  a  corrected  text,  according  to  less  defective 
manuscripts,  at  Leyden. 

Ibn  Wadih  al-Ya'qubi,  properly  called  Ahmad  ibn 
Abi  Yaqiib,  belonged  to  the  family  of  the  'Abbasid 
Caliphs.  His  great-grandfather,  Wadih,  a  freedman  of 
Caliph  Mansur,  who  became  governor  of  Armenia, 
Adharbaijan,  and  Egypt,  was  a  Shi'ite  ;  his  devotion  to 
the  'Alid  Prince  Idris,  whom  he  helped  to  escape  to- 
wards Morocco,  brought  him  the  penalty  of  death.  As 
for  our  geographer,  he  lived  at  the  court  of  the  Tahirid 


THE'  "ABBASIDS  299 

princes  of  Khurasan,  and  made  a  journey  into  India, 
Egypt,  and  the  Maghrib,  where  he  wrote,  under  the 
title  of  Book  of  the  Countries,  a  description  of  this  latter 
country,  rich  in  topographical  detail,  and  accounts  of 
the  chief  towns.  He  also  wrote  a  history  of  the  'AbbS- 
sids,  which  is  really  a  universal  history  in  two  volumes, 
carried  down  to  the  year  872,  and  the  interest  of  which 
is  doubled  by  the  fact  that  it  is  the  earliest  work  of  the 
kind  produced  by  a  Shi'ite,  and  marked  by  Shi'ite  ten- 
dencies, and  that  the  author  has  drawn  on  ancient 
and  valuable  sources  of  information,  which  have  thus 
become  available  in  the  interests  of  science. 

Abu  Bakr  Ibn  al-Faqih  belonged  to  Hamadhan,  in 
Persia.  Very  soon  after  the  death  of  the  Caliph 
Mu  tadid  (902),  he  wrote  a  geographical  work,  of  which 
all  we  now  possess  is  the  extract  made  in  1022  by 'All 
ibn  Ja'far  of  Shaizar,  and  which  is  also  remarkable, 
because  no  mention  is  made  in  it  of  the  capital,  Bagdad, 
a  fact  which  would  lead  us  to  suppose  the  book  was 
founded  on  information  collected  in  the  days  of  the 
Omeyyads,  before  that  famous  city  was  built.  Ibn 
Rosteh  (Abu  'Ali),  who  was  at  Ispahan  towards  903, 
there  compiled  an  encyclopEedia  entitled  al-A'ldq  al- 
Nafisa ;  the  geographical  portion  of  this  work,  which 
forms  its  seventh  volume,  has  been  preserved  at  the 
British  Museum,  and  has  been  published,  with  the 
preceding  ones,  by  De  Goeje,  in  his  Bibliotheca  Geo- 
graphorum  Arabicorum.  Quite  recently  Mr.  Guy  Le 
Strange  has  made  us  acquainted  with  a  certain  Ibn 
Serapion,  whose  curious  name  recalls  Egypt  to  our 
minds,  and  who,  after  the  taking  of  Bagdad  by  the 
Buwaihids  in  945,  wrote  an  account  of  that  capital,  and 
of  Mesopotamia.      But  nothing  is  known  of  this  topo- 


300  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

grapher,  whom  historical  order  places  here.  Ibn  Fadlan, 
an  ambassador  sent  in  921,  by  Caliph  Al-Muqtadir, 
to  the  King  of  the  Bulgarians,  whose  abode,  in  those 
days,  was  on  the  banks  of  the  Volga,  brought  back  an 
account  of  his  mission,  which  was  utilised  by  Yaqut  in 
his  great  geographical  dictionary  ;  the  part  deahng  with 
the  ancient  Russians  has  been  translated  into  German 
and  published  by  Frahn. 

Qudama  (Abu'l-Faraj),  surnamed  the  Secretary  of 
Bagdad,  left  a  book  on  the  land-tax,  which,  before 
dealing  with  the  questions  connected  with  the  levj'ing 
and  yield  of  the  tax,  gives  an  account  of  the  organisation 
of  the  postal  service,  and  a  summary  of  the  geography 
of  the  Arab  Empire  and  the  adjoining  countries.  But 
Qudama  was  only  a  geographer  on  occasions  ;  by  pro- 
fession he  was  a  literary  man.  He  wrote  a  book  called 
Criticism  of  Poetry,  which  treats  of  the  poetic  art  amongst 
the  Arabs,  and  one  of  his  pupils  composed  a  work  on 
rhetoric,  founded  on  his  teachings,  which  is  now  in  the 
Escurial  Library. 

The  Samanid  dynasty  was  then  beginning  to  attract 
attention  in  Khurasan,  where  it  had  attained  complete 
independence.  It  protected  literature  and  learning,  and 
to  it  geographical  science  owes  the  appearance  of  a  work 
written  between  892  and  907  by  Al-Jaihani,  who  acted 
as  minister  to  several  of  the  Samanid  princes — a  work 
which  has  now  completely  disappeared,  unless,  indeed, 
Idrisi  used  it,  as  has  been  insinuated,  for  his  description 
of  Asia.  This  same  Al-Jaihan!,  taking  advantage  of  the 
presence  of  the  Indian  prince,  Kalatli,  the  son  of  Chakh- 
bar,  at  the  Bukharian  court,  caused  the  Arab  poet,  Abu 
Dulaf  Mis'ar  ibn  Muhalhal,  who  was  born  at  Yambo,  on 
the  Red  Sea,  to  accompany  the  royal  visitor  on  his  return 


THE  'ABBASIDS  301 

journey  through  Thibet,  The  poet-traveller  made  his 
way  back  from  India  by  Kashmir,  Afghanistan,  and  Si- 
jistin,  and  after  his  return  wrote  a  book  called  Marvels  of 
the  Countries,  which  has  been  utilised  by  Yaqiat  and  by 
Qazwini,  and  studied  by  Schlozer. 

In  the  year  921,  the  philosopher  Abu  Zaid  ibn  Sahl 
al-Balkhi  wrote  a  book  entitled  Suwar  al-aqdliin  (Figures 
of  the  Climates),  the  contents  of  which  consist,for  the  most 
part,  of  geographical  maps.  A  copy  of  this  work  is  now  at 
Berlin.  The  author  had  belonged,  in  his  youth,  to  the 
Imamite  sect;  to  attain  a  closer  acquaintance  with  it,  he 
went  to  'Irak,  sat  at  the  feet  of  Al-Kindi,  and  devoted 
himself  to  philosophical  studies.  The  Prince  of  Balkh, 
who  bore  the  same  name  as  himself,  Ahmad  ibn  Sahl, 
loaded  him  with  benefits,  and  enabled  him  to  buy  a 
landed  property.  He  died  in  934.  For  a  very  long  time, 
though  probably  quite  incorrectly,  the  authorship  of  the 
Book  of  the  Creation  and  of  History  (which  appears  to 
have  really  been  written  by  Mutahhar  ibn  Tahir  al- 
Maqdisi,  who  lived  in  the  town  of  Bust,  in  Sijistan)  was 
ascribed  to  him. 

The  geography  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula  was  the 
favourite  theme  of  Al-Hamdani,  who  belonged  to  a 
family  of  Yemen,  and  was  passionately  interested  in  the 
antiquities  of  Arabia  Felix,  in  its  historical  memories,  and 
the  ancient  ruined  fortresses  which  recall  the  past  splen- 
dours of  the  kingdom  of  Sheba.  His  account  of  the 
Peninsula  has  been  published  by  D.  H.  Miiller,  and  studied 
by  Sprenger.  His  book  entitled  //;;///  (The  Crown), 
which  is  now  at  Berlin,  furnished  D.  H.  Miiller  with  the 
subject-matter  for  his  study  of  the  strong  castles  in 
Southern  Arabia. 

Abu  'Abdallah  al-Maqdisi,  still    called   Al-Muqaddast 


302  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

by  long-standing  habit  (this  form  of  his  surname  is  ad- 
missible, but  very  unusual),  was  born  at  Jerusalem.  He 
spent  a  great  part  of  his  life  in  travelling  all  over  the 
Moslem  Empire,  with  the  exception,  perhaps,  of  its 
eastern  and  western  extremities,  India  and  Spain.  His 
book  entitled  A Asan  al-taqdstm  ft  md rifat  al-aqdltm  (The 
Best  of  Divisions  for  Knowledge  of  the  Climates)  is  a 
very  complete  work,  in  which,  besides  the  results  of 
his  own  personal  observation,  he  gives  a  summary  of 
all  previous  information.  It  was  written  in  985.  This 
account  of  the  Moslem  states  has  been  frequently  utilised 
by  subsequent  geographers.  Abu  Raihan  Muhammad 
AL-BlRtJNl  derived  his  surname  from  the  fact  that  he 
was  born  in  one  of  the  suburbs  of  Khwarizm  (Khiva), 
in  September  973.  His  family  was  of  Persian  origin. 
He  studied  profoundly,  history,  mathematics,  and  medi- 
cine. He  kept  up  a  correspondence  with  Avicenna. 
At  a  later  date  he  proceeded  to  India,  and  studied  the 
learning  of  that  country,  of  which  he  has  left  us  a  very 
exact  description  in  his  Ta'rikh  a/- Hind  (History  of  India), 
translated  into  English  and  published  by  E.  Sachau. 
After  his  return  he  attached  himself  to  the  court  of 
Mas'ud,  son  of  the  famous  Ghaznavid  prince,  Mahmud 
ibn  Subuktakln,  to  whom  he  dedicated  his  Qdmai  al- 
MasAdi,  a  complete  treatise  on  astronomy.  He  died  at 
Ghazna  on  13th  December  1048.  Like  most  of  his  com- 
patriots, he  was  a  Shi'ite,  and  ill-disposed  towards  the 
Arabs.  His  chronology  of  the  Oriental  ^eoY>\es{al-Athdr 
al-bdqiya,  The  Existing  Monuments  of  Past  Centuries), 
which  is  full  of  the  most  interesting  information  as  to 
the  populations  inhabiting  Central  Asia,  has  been  trans- 
lated into  English  and  published  by  Sachau. 

Abu  'Ubaid  al-BakrI  (1040-1094),  who  was  born  and 


THE  'ABBASIDS  303 

died  at  Cordova,  wrote,  under  the  title  of-  Mil  jam  md 
istdjani,  a  geographical  dictionary  of  the  names  of 
localities  mentioned  by  the  ancient  Arab  poets,  with  an 
introduction  dealing  with  the  geographical  positions  of 
the  various  tribes,  which  has  been  published  by  Wiisten- 
feld,  and  a  general  geography,  under  the  title  commonly 
borne  by  most  Arabic  treatises  on  this  subject,  al-Masdlik 
wa'l-mamdlik  (The  Roads  and  the  Provinces),  from  which 
the  Baron  MacGuckin  de  Slane  has  extracted  and  trans- 
lated the  Description  de  I'Afrique  Septentrionale. 

Muhammad  ibn  Abi  Bakr  al-Zuhr1,  who  lived  at 
Grenada  in  1137,  has  left  a  geography  from  which  an 
extract — an  account  of  the  SAs  al-aqsd — has  appeared 
in  the  Bulletin  de  correspondance  Africaine. 

Aba  'Abdallah  al-Sharif  AL-lDRisl,  who  was  born 
at  Ceuta  in  1099,  of  an  'Alid  family,  studied  at  Cordova, 
travelled  far  and  wide,  and  reached  the  court  of  the 
Norman  King  of  Sicily,  Roger  II.,  for  whom  he  wrote, 
in  1154,  his  great  geographical  ^ovk,  Nuzhat  al-Musktdq, 
which  has  been  translated  into  French — not,  indeed,  in 
a  very  satisfactory  manner — by  Amed^e  Jaubert. 

Aba  'Abdallah  Muhammad  al-Mazin!  (1080-1169), 
who  was  born  at  Grenada,  travelled  over  a  great  part 
of  the  Moslem  world — Egypt,  where  he  arrived  in 
1114;  Bagdad,  whither  he  went  in  1161  ;  and  Khurasan, 
whence  he  returned  to  Syria,  and  settled  at  Damascus, 
where  he  died.  He  founded  his  geography,  entitled 
Tuhfat  al-albdb  wa-nukhbat  al-A'jdb  (Gift  Bestowed  on 
Hearts,  and  Selection  of  Wonders),  on  his  own  jour- 
neys, and  on  accounts  furnished  by  reliable  witnesses. 
He  collected  for  the  library  of  Abu'l-Muzaffar  Yahyi 
ibn  Hubaira  accounts  of  all  his  travels,  in  which  many 
fabulous  legends  are  embodied,  under  the  title  of  'AJd'ib 


304  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

al-MakhlAqdt  (Wonders  of  the  Creatures) ;  it  is  now  at 
the  Bodleian.  The  title  of  this  book  was  frequently  used 
by  later  writers. 

Abu'l-Husain  Muhammad  IBN  JUBAIR,  who  was  born 
in  1145,  wrote,  towards  the  end  of  the  sixth  century  of  the 
Hegira,  an  account  of  his  pilgrimage  to  Mecca  from  its 
starting-point  in  Spain.  The  text  of  this  work  has  been 
published  by  Wright,  and  extracts  from  it  have  been 
translated  into  French  by  Amari  and  Crolla.  The  author 
was  of  Valencian  extraction.  He  settled  at  Grenada,  but 
left  it  in  11 82,  when  he  started  on  his  journey.  When  he 
came  back,  he  went  to  Malaga,  Ceuta,  and  Fez,  where 
he  taught.  He  died  in  1217,  having  amassed  a  consider- 
able fortune,  which  he  renounced  from  motives  of  piety. 

Yaq^JT  ibn  'Abdallah  al-Ruml  was  born  of  Greek 
parents,  on  territory  belonging  to  the  Roman  Empire 
of  the  East,  towards  the  year  1179.  He  was  carried  off 
in  a  foray,  taken  to  Bagdad,  and  sold  as  a  slave  to  a 
merchant  from  Hamat,  who  had  settled  in  the  Caliphs' 
capital.  His  owner  had  him  carefully  educated,  and 
sent  him,  when  still  quite  young,  on  journeys  connected 
with  his  trade.  Returning  in  1194  from  his  third  voyage 
on  the  Persian  Gulf,  he  quarrelled  with  his  master,  who 
was  also  his  benefactor,  and,  being  turned  out  of  his 
house,  began  to  copy  for  his  livelihood,  and  studied 
under  the  grammarian  Al-'Ukbari.  Some  years  later  he 
made  up  his  difference  with  his  patron,  and  once  more 
started  for  the  Persian  Gulf ;  but  when  he  got  back  in 
the  following  year,  he  found  the  merchant  was  dead,  set 
up  as  a  bookseller,  and  began  to  publish  writings.  In 
1213  he  started  on  his  travels  again,  went  first  of  all 
to  Tabriz,  then  left  Mosul  for  Syria  and  Egypt,  and 
proceeded  to  Khurasin  in  12 15.     To  console  himself  for 


THE  'ABBASIDS  30s 

the  loss  of  a  Turkish  slave-woman,  from  whom  he  had 
been  constrained  to  part  on  account  of  his  poverty,  he 
read  the  books  in  the  libraries  of  Merv,  and'  conceived 
the  plan  of  his  great  geographical  dictionary.  Having 
spent  some  two  years  at  Merv,  he  proceeded  to  Khiva 
and  Balkh,  and,  while  in  the  latter  town,  heard  that 
Bukhara  and  Samarqand  had  been  taken  by  the  Mon- 
gols. Alarmed  by  this  catastrophe  he  turned  back  into 
Khurasan,  and  returned,  in  1220,  to  Mosul,  where  he 
took  up  his  old  occupation  of  copying.  The  Vizier 
Jamal  al-din  al-Shaibani,  to  whom  he  had  recourse, 
supplied  him  with  the  means  to  join  him  at  Aleppo  in 
1222.  He  returned  to  Mosul  and  set  himself  to  com- 
plete his  dictionary,  which  was  finished  on  13th  March 
1224.  In  1227  he  once  more  travelled  to  Alexandria, 
returned  to  Aleppo  in  the  following  year,  and  busied 
himself  with  correcting  the  manuscript  of  his  great  work. 
He  died  there  on  20th  August  1229. 

His  Mujam  al-bulddn  has  been  published  by  Wiisten- 
feld,  and  so  has  his  Mushtarik,  a  dictionary  of  geographical 
homonyms.  An  abridgment  of  the  first-named  work, 
Mardsid  al-ittila  ,  published  at  Leyden  by  Juynboll,  was 
for  many  years  the  only  one  of  its  kind  within  the  reach 
of  Orientalists.  He  also  produced  a  dictionary  of  literary 
men,  Mujain  al-udaba,  of  which  an  edition  is  in  course 
of  preparation  by  Mr.  Margoliouth.  The  Muqtadab  viin 
jamharat  al-nasab,  the  manuscript  of  which  is  now  at 
Cairo,  is  a  selection  from  the  genealogies  of  the  Arab 
tribes. 

Muwaffaq  al-din  'Abdal-LatIf  ibn  Yusuf  (1160- 
1231),  a  physician,  was  born  and  died  at  Bagdad.  He 
wrote  an  account  of  Egypt,  to  which  J.  White,  Wahl, 
and  Silvestre  de   Sagy  have  all  turned  their  attention. 


3o6  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

He  also  left  a  collection  of  sayings  of  the  Prophet 
and  his  companions,  the  Tajrid,  and  a  description  of 
Mahomet's  personal  appearance,  abridged  from  the 
Maqdlat  al-TAj. 

Zakariyya  AL-QAZWfNi,  who  was  born  at  Qazwin  in 
Adharbaigan  towards  1203,  was  descended  from  Anas, 
the  son  of  Malik.  He  left  his  native  town,  for  what 
reason  we  know  not,  and  settled,  in  1232,  at  Damascus, 
where  he  made  the  acquaintance  of  Ibn  al-Arabi.  We 
next  find  him  serving  as  qddt  of  the  towns  of  Wasit  and 
Hilla,  under  Al  -  Musta  sim,  the  last  'Abbasid  Caliph 
of  Bagdad  ;  he  died  in  1283.  He  was  the  author  of  the 
'' Ajd'ib  al-Makhluqdt  (Marvels  of  the  Creatures),  a  cos- 
mography, published  by  Wiistenfeld,  and  of  the  Athdr 
al-Bildd  (Monuments  of  the  Countries),  an  historical 
geography. 

Abu  Muhammad  AL- AbdarI,  who  belonged  to  Val- 
encia, wrote,  in  the  year  1289,  a  Rihla  (Journey),  which 
contains  accounts  of  the  African  towns,  and  details  both 
of  their  inhabitants  in  general,  and  of  the  learned  men 
who  dwelt  in  them. 

Medicine 

The  Syrians  had  carried  the  knowledge  of  medicine 
even  into  the  East ;  the  school  of  Gundeshapflr  kept 
up  its  medical  traditions  until  the  days  of  the  'Abbasid 
Caliphs.  Thence  it  was  that  the  Caliph  Mansur  called 
George  Bokhtyisbu'  to  be  his  body  physician.  Yet 
India  exercised  a  certain  influence  over  Arab  medicine. 
We  know  that  Harun  al-Rashid  had  the  Indian  phy- 
sician Manka  at  his  court ;  and  A.  Miiller  has  proved  that 
Rhazes  made  use  of  the  Indian  Su^ruta  for  his  Hdzvi. 

The    body   physician    to    the    Caliphs    Mutasim    and 


THE  'ABBASIDS  307 

Mutawakkil  was  Abu'l- Hasan  'Alt  ibn  Sahl  ibii  Rab- 
ban,  son  of  a  Jewish  physician  from  Tabaristfin  ;  the 
first  of  these  two  sovereigns  never  rested  till  he  had 
converted  his  medical  attendant  to  the  Moslem  faith, 
and  his  change  of  religion  established  him  in  his  posi- 
tion. His  claim  to  glory  lies  in  the  fact  that  he  was 
Rhazes'  instructor.  His  two  books,  al-Kunndsh  (System 
of  Medicine)  and  Hifz  al-Sihha  (Preservation  of  Health), 
are  now  at  Berlin,  at  the  British  Museum,  and  the  Bodleian. 

From  Gundeshapur,  too,  came  Abu  Zakariyya  Yahyi 
ibn  Masawaih,  the  son  of  an  apothecary  in  that  town.  At 
Bagdad,  where  he  was  studying,  he  met  Gabriel,  son 
of  Bokhtyishu',  private  physician  to  Hirun  al-Rashid, 
who  entrusted  him  with  the  management  of  an  hospital. 
At  a  later  date  he  succeeded  to  Gabriel's  post  about 
Caliph  Mansur  and  his  successors,  down  to  Wathiq. 
He  translated  many  books  from  the  Greek,  and  him- 
self wrote  original  works,  such  as  his  Nawddir  al-tibb 
(Curiosities  of  Medicine),  dedicated  to  Hunain  ibn  Ishaq. 

IsMq  ibn  'Imran,  who  was  summoned  to  Qairawin 
by  the  Aghlabite  Prince  Ziyadat-Allah  III.,  who  suffered 
from  melancholia,  belonged  to  Bagdad.  He  quarrelled 
with  the  prince,  and  died  under  torture,  having  been 
denounced  by  one  of  his  enemies,  a  Jew.  He  left  a 
treatise  on  melancholia,  which  is  now  at  Munich. 

The  great  physician  of  that  period  was  Rhazes,  other- 
wise called  Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  ibn  Zakariyya  al- 
Razi — that  is  to  say,  born  at  Rai,  the  ancient  Rhages. 
Till  his  twentieth  year  he  gave  all  his  attention  to  music. 
He  then  went  to  Bagdad,  and  studied  medicine  under 
'All  ibn  Sahl  ibn  Rabban,  physician  to  the  Caliph 
Mu'tasim.  When  he  had  attained  the  mastery  of  his 
profession,  he  was  sent  to  manage  the  hospital  at  Rai, 


308  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

and  later  returned  to  Bagdad,  to  hold  a  similar  post 
there.  Then  he  travelled.  The  fame  of  his  knowledge 
had  already  spread  over  the  East ;  the  Samanid  prince 
Mansur  ibn  Ishaq  welcomed  him  to  his  court,  and  to 
him  the  physician  dedicated  the  work  he  entitled  Man- 
stiri.  There  was  no  little  brutality  about  this  sovereign 
of  Khurasan.  When  Razi  presented  him  with  his  work 
on  alchemy,  he  insisted  that  the  learned  writer  should 
demonstrate  the  reality  of  the  facts  he  put  forward,  and 
as  he  failed  in  doing  anything  of  the  kind,  Mansur,  in 
a  rage,  lashed  him  across  the  eyes  with  a  whip,  and 
blinded  him.  The  date  and  place  of  the  great  phy- 
sician's death  are  alike  unknown  to  us.  Some  say  he 
died  at  Rai,  some  at  Bagdad  ;  the  date  is  variously  given 
as  923  and  932.  He  had  been  unable  to  complete  the 
preparation  of  his  great  work,  the  Hdwt,  during  his  life- 
time. It  was  finished,  after  his  death,  by  one  of  his 
pupils,  according  to  his  manuscript  notes,  on  the  order 
of  the  minister  to  the  Buwaihid  prince  Rukn  al-daula. 
His  MansAri,  a  treatise  on  medicine  in  ten  books,  his 
book  on  smallpox,  and  many  others,  were  translated  into 
Hebrew  and  Latin,  or  published  in  the  original  text,  at 
an  early  date.  A  great  number  of  them  are  in  the 
Escurial  Library. 

In  Egypt,  again,  IsMq  ibn  Sulaiman,  whose  surname, 
Isra'ili,  denotes  his  Jewish  origin,  had  come  into  the 
world.  He  went  to  Qairawan  in  the  days  of  the  Aghla- 
bite  prince  Ziyadat- Allah  III.,  and  there  knew  Ishaq  ibn 
"Imran;  later,after  the  Aghlabites  had  fallen,  he  passed  into 
the  service  of  the  Fatimid  Caliph  Al-Mahdi,  and  died 
towards  932,  after  writing  a  book  on  fevers,  a  treatise  on 
food  and  medicine,  and  inquiries  into  the  nature  of  the 
elements. 


THE  'ABBASIDS  309 

'Isa  ibn  'Ali,  a  Christian  physician,  wrote,  when  at 
Bagdad,  a  memoir  on  the  diseases  of  the  eye  and  their 
treatment,  which  was  known  in  Europe  at  an  early 
period,  being  much  consulted  by  surgeons.  It  was 
printed  at  Venice  in  1499.  Another  author,  also  well 
known  in  Europe  during  the  Renaissance  period,  was 
All  ibn  'Abbas,  physician  to  the  Buwaihid  prince  "Adud 
al-daula.  He  was  the  son  of  a  Magian  (hence  his 
surname  of  Majusi),  and  was  born  at  al-Ahwiz,  in  the 
heart  of  Susiana.  His  principal  work,  entitled  Kdmil 
al-Sanaa  al-tibbiyya  (Complete  Treatise  on  the  Art  of 
Medicine),  was  translated  into  Latin  by  Stephen  of 
Antioch,  and  published  at  Leyden  in  1523. 

Abu  Sahl  'tsa  ibn  Yahya  was  a  Christian  from  Jur- 
jan,  who  practised  medicine  in  Khurasan.  He  died 
young,  at  the  age  of  forty,  towards  the  year  1000,  and 
was  the  medical  instructor  of  Avicenna.  He  wrote  a 
Medical  Encyclopaedia  divided  into  one  hundred  mono- 
graphs, a  book  on  general  therapeutics,  a  demonstration 
of  the  wisdom  of  the  Deity  as  seen  in  the  creation  of  the 
various  members  and  organs  of  the  human  frame,  and 
several  other  less  important  works. 

To  return  to  the  West.  We  first  find  a  native  of  the 
Maghrib,  lawyer  and  physician  at  once,  named  Abu 
'Abdullah  Muhammad  ibn  'All  ibn  Tumirt,  who  died 
in  looi,  and  is  said  to  have  composed  five  hundred 
works,  some  fragments  of  which  still  exist  in  the 
libraries  of  the  present  day;  Al-Jazzar  (Abu  Ja'far), 
unhke  his  contemporaries,  preferred  attending  the  pri- 
vate residents  in  the  town  of  Qairawan  to  doctoring 
royal  personages,  and  in  his  zeal  for  religion  served 
year  after  year  withthe  piratical  expeditions  organised 
in  Tunis  under  pretext  of  warring  against  the  infidels. 


3IO  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

which  did  not  prevent  him  from  dying  at  the  advanced 
age  of  over  eighty  years,  in  1004.  His  abridged  treatise  on 
medicine,  entitled  Zdd  al-Musdfir  wa-QAt  al-Hddir  (The 
Traveller's  Viaticum  and  Food  for  the  Sedentary  Man),  a 
book  on  the  confidence  that  should  be  placed  in  simples, 
and  another  on  the  education  of  children,  are  still  extant. 
His  treatise  on  the  medicine  of  the  poor  and  indigent 
marks  him  as  a  predecessor  of  Raspail.  At  Cordova, 
under  Caliph  'Abdal-Rahman  III.,  we  find  Abu'l- 
Qasim  Khalaf  ibn  'Abbas  al-Zahrawi,  better  known 
under  the  European  corruption  of  his  name,  Albucasis, 
a  great  surgeon,  who  frequently  resorted  to  cauterisa- 
iion,  and  whose  works,  translated  into  Latin,  were  pub- 
lished in  the  early  days  of  the  art  of  printing. 

Abu'l-Faraj  'AbdaUah  IBN  AL-Tayyib,  a  Christian 
physician,  who  taught  at  the  hospital  in  Bagdad  founded 
by  the  Buwaihid  prince  'Adud  al-daula,  and  also  acted  as 
secretary  to  the  Catholicos  Elias  I.,  died  in  1043.  He 
paraphrased  Galen's  works,  and  wrote  books  on  Chris- 
tian theology. 

His  pupil,  Abu'l-Hasan  al-Mukhtar  IBN  BOTLAN,  like- 
wise a  Christian  and  a  physician,  travelled  to  Egypt 
in  1047,  to  make  the  acquaintance  of  his  literary 
opponent,  Ibn  Ridwan.  Feeling  defeat  close  upon 
him,  he  made  his  way  to  the  territory  of  the  Greek 
Empire,  went  to  Constantinople  and  Antioch,  took 
refuge  in  a  cloister,  and  died  there  after  the  year 
1063.  His  Taqwim  al-Sihha  (Tables  of  Health)  is  a  col- 
lection of  forty  tables  of  mortality,  which  were  trans- 
lated and  published  at  Strasburg  in  1532.  His  Ddwat 
al-atibbd  is  a  conversation  on  medical  subjects  between 
the  author  and  a  physician  of  seventy  years  of  age,  re- 
siding at  Mayyafariqin.     His  Amrdd  al-Arida  is  a  treatise 


THE  'ABBASIDS  311 

on  therapeutics,  for  the  use  of  persons  living  far  from  a 
town.  He  also  wrote  two  tracts,  one  to  point  out  what 
defects  in  a  slave  may  be  regarded  as  redhibitory  in 
cases  of  sale,  and  the  other  to  demonstrate  that  the 
temperature  of  the  blood  of  the  common  fowl  is  higher 
than  that  of  any  other  bird. 

Abu  Sa'id  'Ubaidallah  Ibn  BOKHTYlSHtf  belonged  to 
the  famous  medical  family  of  that  name.  He  was  the 
friend  of  Ibn  Botlan,  lived  at  Mayyafariqiri,  and  died 
towards  1058.  He  wrote  on  love  as  a  disease,  and  on 
specifics. 

Abu'l-Hasan  'Ali  Ibn  Ridwan  was  an  Egyptian,  born 
at  Gizeh,  at  the  base  of  the  Great  Pyramid.  The  Caliph 
Al-Hakim  chose  him  to  be  his  body  physician,  and  this 
was  his  stepping-stone  to  fortune.  Unhappily  the  wealth 
he  amassed  was  ultimately  squandered  by  an  adopted 
son  who  betrayed  his  confidence.  He  died  in  1061  or 
1068.  Under  the  title  of  Kifdyat  al-Tabib  (That  which 
Suffices  to  the  Physician),  he  left  a  treatise  on  the 
classification  of  diseases  and  on  diagnosis,  in  which  the 
examination  of  the  patient's  urine  is  much  insisted  upon. 
Of  his  UsM  ftl-tibb  (Principles  of  Medicine)  nothing 
but  a  Hebrew  translation  now  remains  to  us.  His 
commentary  on  Galen's  Ars  Parva  was  translated  into 
Latin,  and  published  at  Venice  in  1496,  and  his  commen- 
tary on  Ptolemy's  Quadripartitum  at  the  same  city  in 
1484. 

Abu  'All  Yahya  Ibn  Jazla,  a  man  of  Christian  origin, 
became  a  convert  to  Islamism  in  1074,  and  was  appointed 
secretary  to  the  Hanafite  qddt  of  Bagdad.  He  wrote 
a  letter,  which  has  now  disappeared,  to  refute  the 
doctrines  of  Christianity.  He  devoted  his  attention 
to  medical  matters,  and  practised  his  art  on  his  friends 


312  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

and  neighbours,  without  ever  demanding  a  fee,  nor  even 
any  payment  for  the  drugs  he  supplied.  He  died  in 
HOC.  Under  the  title  of  Taqwim  al-Abddn,  he  drew  up 
tables  of  diseases  on  the  system  followed  for  astronomical 
tables.  These  were  translated  into  Latin  at  Strasburg, 
in  1532.  He  also  made  out  an  alphabetical  index  of 
remedies,  simple  and  composite,  entitled  Minhdj  al- 
baydn. 

AbO'l-SALT  Umayya  ibn 'Abdal- Aziz  (1068-1134)  was 
born  at  Denia  in  Spain.  In  1096  he  went  to  Alexandria, 
and  thence  to  Cairo.  As  a  punishment  for  having  failed 
in  an  attempt  to  float  a  stranded  vessel,  he  was  cast  into 
prison,  and  there  remained  till  iiii.  He  left  Egypt  in 
consequence  of  this  inisadventure,  and  retired  to  Mah- 
diyya  in  Tunis,  where  he  was  received  with  honour,  and 
ultimately  died.  He  left  a  book  on  the  simple  drugs 
{al-Adwiya  al-mufradd),  a  treatise  on  the  astrolabe,  astro- 
nomical problems  with  figures  attached,  and  a  treatise  on 
logic  called  Taqwim  al-Dhihn  (Tables  of  the  Mind).  He 
also  wrote  poetry,  all  of  which,  except  one  ode,  now  at 
Berlin,  has  disappeared. 

Abu'l-Faraj  'Abdal-Rahman  ibn  Nasrallah  of  Shiraz, 
who  practised  medicine  at  Aleppo  towards  1169,  wrote, 
besides  his  treatise  on  the  mysteries  of  the  science 
of  marriage  {al-Iddh  ft  asrdi'  'ilm  al-nikdli),  and  his 
Raudat  al-Quliib  (the  Garden  of  Hearts),  on  love,  a  book 
explaining  dreams  {Khuldsat  al-Kaldni),  which  has  been 
translated  into  French  by  P.  Vattier,  under  the  title  ol 
Oneirocrite  inusulnian. 

Abu  'Imran  Musa  IBN  MaimCjn,  known  as  Maimo- 
NIDES,  the  great  Jewish  philosopher  of  Cordova,  was  a 
physician.  He  was  born  at  Cordova,  and  studied  Jewish 
theology  and  medicine.    For  some  time,  under  the  second 


THE  'ABBASIDS  313 

Almohad  Sultan,  'Abdal-Mu'min,  who  ordered  all  the 
Jews  and  Christians  in  his  dominions  to  choose  between 
retractation  and  banishment,  he  passed  himself  off  as  a 
Moslem.  Then,  when  he  had  put  his  affairs  in  order,  he 
departed  to  Egypt,  avowed  his  real  faith,  and  even 
founded  a  Talmudic  school  in  Old  Cairo.  Saladin  ap- 
pointed him  his  own  physician,  and  he  held  the  same 
post  under  Saladin's  successor,  Malik- Aziz.  Maimonides 
died  in  1204.  His  Guide  for  the  Lost,  written  in  the  Arabic 
language,  but  in  Hebrew  characters,  belongs  to  Arabic 
literature.  It  is  a  philosophical  treatise  on  certain  terms 
of  the  Biblical  theodicee.  It  has  been  published  and  trans- 
lated into  French  by  S.  Munk.  Among  his  medical 
works,  one  dedicated  to  the  qddt  Al-Fadil,  a  treatise 
on  the  venom  of  reptiles,  and  how  to  cure  their  bites, 
is  particularly  curious. 

Alchemy 

There  were  students  of  alchemy  in  the  Omeyyad 
family,  for  we  find  that  a  prince  belonging  to  that 
dynasty,  Khalid  ibn  Yazid,  pupil  of  the  monk  Marianus, 
wrote  three  treatises  on  the  subject.  Jabir  ibn  Hay- 
yan,  the  great  alchemist,  whose  teaching  ruled  the 
Middle  Ages,  was  probably  his  pupil,  and  we  are  also 
told  that  the  Imam  Jafar  Sadiq,  the  master  of  all 
occult  science,  was  Jabir's  teacher.  What  was  his 
native  country  ?  No  man  knows.  Some  say  he  came 
from  Tus,  in  Khurasan.  Others  declare  his  home  was 
Antaradus,  on  the  Syrian  coast.  Brockelmann  inclines 
to  the  opinion  that  he  was  a  Sabian  from  Harran.  All 
that  can  be  said  with  certainty  is  that  he  was  living 
at  Kufa  towards  776.  Twenty-seven  of  his  works  are 
known  to  the  world,  several  of  which  were"  translated 


314  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

into  Latin  and  German,  and  published  at  Nuremberg, 
Frankfurt,  and  Strasburg,  between  1473  and  1710. 

At  the  end  of  the  third  century  of  the  Hegira,  as  Rosen 
has  established,  the  alchemist  Muhammad  ibn  Umail 
wrote  an  ode  on  certain  winged  forms  seen  on  the  walls 
of  a  temple  at  Busir,  which  popular  legend  asserted  to 
be  the  prison  in  which  Joseph  was  shut  up,  and  added 
a  commentary  on  his  own  ode,  with  observations  derived 
from  the  science  of  alchemy. 

Together  with  these  reveries,  in  which  the  germ  of 
chemistry  appears  as  yet  to  possess  no  scientific  basis, 
we  note  the  appearance  of  a  work  devoted  to  the  agri- 
culture of  the  Nabateans,  and  full  of  scientific  observa- 
tion preserved  by  tradition  among  the  toilers  on  the 
Mesopotamian  plains.  My  readers  are  aware  that  the 
Arabs  gave  the  name  of  Nabateans  to  the  aboriginal 
populations  of  Chaldea  and  Babylon,  a  Semitic  race, 
among  whom  the  Aramaic  had  supplanted  the  ancient 
dialects,  and  become  the  national  language.  Abu  Bakr 
Ibn  al-Wahshiyya  was  of  Aramean  blood,  and  was  born 
in 'Iraq.  In  the  year  904,  he  wrote  a  book  on  Nabatean 
agriculture,  in  which  Chwolson  thought  he  had  dis- 
covered the  remains  of  the  ancient  Babylonian  literature, 
whereas,  in  reality,  the  Arab  author,  in  his  anxiety  to 
demonstrate  the  Aramean-Syrian  civilisation  to  be  better 
and  more  highly  developed  than  that  of  the  Arab  con- 
querors, had  not  hesitated  to  fabricate  writings  whole- 
sale, with  the  object  of  strengthening  his  own  theory. 
The  Russian  Orientalist  never  stopped  to  consider  that 
Ibn  al-Wahshiyya — like  the  Egyptian  Arabs  in  the  matter 
of  the  hieroglyphs — knew  nothing  of  the  Babylonian 
literature,  the  written  characters  of  which  were  not 
deciphered  till  our  own  time.     Another  tendency  to  be 


THE  'ABBASIDS  315 

noted  in  this  same  work  is  the  author's  evident  desire  to 
oppose  Moslem  dogmas  by  the  quotation  of  alleged 
texts,  and  this  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  he  himself  always 
appears  to  be  a  pious  disciple  of  Islam.  Another  forgery 
due  to  the  same  writer  is  the  Shauq  al-Mustah&m  (The 
Desire  of  the  Troubled  Heart  which  would  know  the 
Secrets  of  the  Writings),  devoted  to  the  writings  of  the 
various  nations,  a  subject  on  which  the  author,  like  all 
Orientals,  must  have  been  very  imperfectly  informed. 
We  also  owe  him  several  treatises  on  alchemy,  and  the 
Sidrat  al-Muntahd  (The  Bush  of  the  Boundary),  a  con- 
versation on  religious  and  philosophical  topics. 

A  Spaniard  of  Madrid,  Abu'l-Qasim  Maslama  al-Maj- 
riti,  who  died  in  1007,  was  famous,  in  the  days  of  Al- 
Hakam  II.,  for  his  knowledge  of  mathematics  and 
astronomy,  and  perhaps  even  more  so  for  his  practice 
of  the  occult  sciences.  He  wrote  on  alchemy,  and  on 
the  fabrication  of  talismans  and  amulets. 

At  about  the  same  period  we  must  place  the  author  of 
the  most  ancient  known  Arabic  book  on  mineralogy. 
It  is  called  the  Book  of  Minerals  and  Precious  Stones, 
and  was  written  by'Utarid  ibn  Muhammad,  surnamed 
Al-Hasib  (the  Calculator),  or  Al-Katib  (the  Secretary). 
Towards  the  year  900,  the  Superintendent  of  the  Stables 
belonging  to  Caliph  Mu  tadid  wrote  a  treatise  on  horses 
and  horsemanship,  also  the  oldest  known  Arabic  work  on 
that  particular  subject.  It  is  now  in  the  British  Museum. 
This  student  of  horse-flesh  was  named  Abu  Yusuf  Ya'qub 
ibn  Akhi  Hizam.  The  interpretation  of  dreams,  one  of 
the  most  ancient  of  the  pseudo  -  sciences  of  the  East, 
is  represented  by  the  Kitdb  al-  Qddirt,  dedicated  to 
the  Caliph  Al-Qadir  by  Abu  Sa'id  Nasr  ibn  Yaqub  al- 
Dinawari,  in  1006. 


3i6  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Towards  the  same  period,  too,  we  perceive  the  first 
advent  of  the  abridged  encyclopaedias,  which  were  later 
to  increase  in  considerable  numbers.  The  oldest  of 
these  is  the  Mafdtih  al-Ulum  (Keys  of  the  Sciences), 
published  by  G.  van  Vloten,  after  the  Leyden  manuscript, 
and  written  by  Abu  'Abdallah  Muhammad  al-Khwarizmi 
for  Abu'l-Hasan  'Ubaidallah  al-Utbi,  minister  to  the 
Saraanid  prince,  Nuh  II.  The  Kiidb  al-Muqdbasdt,  by 
'All  al-Tauhidi  (died  1009),  divided  into  a  hundred  and 
three  sections,  and  dealing  with  various  sciences,  should 
be  classed  in  the  same  category. 

'Abdallah  IBN  Baitar,  who  was  born  at  Malaga, 
travelled  as  a  botanist  in  Egypt,  Asia  Minor,  and  Greece. 
At  Damascus,  he  entered  the  service  of  the  prince  Malik- 
Kamil,  as  his  chief  botanist.  On  the  death  of  his  pro- 
tector he  returned  to  Cairo,  but  in  spite  of  the  honourable 
reception  bestowed  upon  him  there  by  Malik-Salih  he 
soon  returned  to  Damascus,  and  died  in  the  Syrian 
capital  in  1248.  He  left  two  works  on  simples,  the 
Mughni  and  the  Jdim  mufraddt,  which  last  has  been 
translated  into  German  by  J.  von  Sontheimer,  and  into 
French  by  L.  Leclerc. 

Abii  Zakariyya  Yahya  IBN  AL- AwWAM,of  Seville,  wrote, 
during  the  first  half  of  the  sixth  century  of  the  Hegira, 
the  Kitdb  al-Faldha  (Book  of  Agriculture),  founded  on 
Greek  authorities  and  on  the  results  of  his  own  inquiries. 
This  has  been  published  and  translated  into  Spanish  by 
Banquera,  and  into  French  by  J.-J.  Clement-Mullet. 

Shihab  al-din  Abii'l- Abbas  AL-Tifash1,  who  died  in 
1253,  wrote  a  book  on  minerals  and  precious  stones 
called  the  Azhdr  al-afkdr  (Flowers  of  Thought),  which 
was  studied  by  Ravius  at  Utrecht  in  1784,  and  by 
Cldment-MuUet  in  i^ 


THE  'ABBASIDS  317 

The  occult  sciences,  too,  added  their  quota  to  the  en- 
richment of  Hterature,  as,  for  instance,  in  the  case  of 
the  diwdn  called  ShudhAr  al-dhahab  (The  Parings  of 
Gold),  a  collection  of  poems  on  the  philosopher's  stone, 
by  Burhan  al-din  Ibn  Arfa'-Ra'sahu,  of  Jaen  in  Spain, 
who  died  at  Fez  in  1197.  Zain  al-din  'Abdal-Rahim 
al-JaubarI,  was  born  in  the  village  of  Jaubar,  near 
Damascus,  was  at  Harran  in  Mesopotamia  in  1216, 
at  Konia  in  Asia  Minor  in  12 19,  and,  on  the  order  of 
Mas'ud,  the  Urtuqid  prince  of  Amid  (Diyarbakr),  and 
Hisn  Kaifa,  wrote  the  Mukhtdr  ft  Kashf  al-asrdr  (Select 
Book  for  the  Revelation  of  Mysteries),  which  contains 
explanations  of  sleight-of-hand  tricks  and  prestidigi- 
tation. 

Muhyi'  al-din  'Abu'l- Abbas  AL-BtiNl,  who  died  in 
1225,  wrote  a  number  of  tracts  on  the  magic  art,  such 
as  the  Fadd'il  al-basmala,  on  the  use  of  the  formula 
" Bismillah"  and  its  employment  in  magic  operations; 
the  Qabs  al-iqtidd,  on  the  mysterious  properties  of  the 
name  of  God,  and  the  manner  in  which  it  should  be 
used  in  connection  with  talismans  ;  the  Mawdqit  al-ghdydt, 
on  the  mysteries  of  the  contemplative  life  of  the  Sufis  ; 
and  the  Sirr  al-hikam,  on  the  Kabbala  and  on  divination. 

Encyclopedias 

Original  composition  gradually  becomes  more  and 
more  rare,  and  its  place  is  taken  by  compilations,  ab- 
ridgments of  such  great  works  as  were  difficult  to  come 
by,  and  the  too  concise  text  of  which  needed  the  skill 
of  a  commentator  to  shed  light  on  its  obscurities.  We 
also  notice  a  tendency,  on  the  part  of  authors,  to 
forsake  special   subjects,  and  plunge  into  a  constantly 


3i8  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

widening  field  of  general  knowledge.  Some  of  these 
universally-minded  men  we  have  already  mentioned ; 
we  now  proceed  to  some  others  of  the  same  tempera- 
ment. 

Thus  it  was  that,  in  the  year  1135,  Jamal  al-din 
Abu  'Abdallah  al-Qazwin!  wrote  his  Mufid  al-tdum, 
a  popular  encyclopaedia,  religious,  moral,  geographical, 
and  historical  ;  that  Abii  'Amir  Muhammad  al-Balaw^I, 
who  died  at  Seville  in  1164,  drew  up  his  UnniMhaj 
al-  Ulum,  devoted  to  twenty-four  different  sciences, 
and  that  Abu  Bakr  Muhammad  AL-ISHBlLt  (1108-1179), 
born  at  Seville,  who,  at  the  age  of  seventy,  became 
Imam  of  the  Great  Mosque  of  Cordova,  and  died  there, 
collected  the  titles  of  over  fourteen  hundred  books  in 
his  Fihrist,  which  has  been  published  by  Codera  and 
Tarrago  at  Saragossa. 

A  polygraph  gifted  with  an  extraordinary  facility 
for  composition  was  Jamal  al-din  Abu'l-Faraj  Abdal- 
Rahman  IBN  AL-jAUZi  (1116-1200),  belonging  to  an 
ancient  Arab  family  which  traced  its  descent  from  the 
Caliph  Abu  Bakr.  He  was  born  at  Bagdad;  his  father,  a 
wealthy  man,  gave  him  a  careful  and  expensive  education. 
He  was  a  great  lover  of  books,  and  when  his  money  ran 
short  he  sold  the  two  houses  his  father  had  left  him,  so 
as  to  be  able  to  add  to  his  library.  His  intelligence  was 
precocious.  At  seven  years  old  he  was  following  the 
explanation  of  the  Musnad  delivered  by  Ibn  Hanbal, 
and  throughout  his  life  he  preserved  a  special  taste  for 
the  study  of  the  traditions  of  the  Prophet.  He  was  a 
rigid  Hanbalite,  and  fought  vigorously  against  the 
disciples  of  the  other  orthodox  schools.  For  fertility 
of  production,  no  writer  except  Suyuti  can  be  com- 
pared with  him.     His  works   cover  the  whole  field  of 


THE  'ABBASIDS  319 

literature,  with  the  exception  of  grammar,  scholastic 
theology,  and  the  exact  sciences.  He  preached  both  at 
Mecca  and  Bagdad,  not  in  the  Mosques,  but  in  private 
gatherings.  The  Sunnites  and  the  Shfites,  who  were 
eternally  at  variance,  chose  him  one  day  to  be  their 
arbiter.  He  got  out  of  the  difficulty  by  pronouncing 
an  ambiguous  sentence  which  satisfied  both  parties.  He 
boasted  that  he  had  converted  more  than  a  hundred 
thousand  men  to  lead  a  pious  life,  and  had  induced  over 
ten  thousand  young  people  to  think  seriously  about 
themselves.  To  give  an  idea  of  his  prodigious  activity, 
it  was  asserted  that  if  the  number  of  quires,  or  folds 
of  twenty  pages,  written  by  Ibn  al-jauzl  during  his  life 
were  to  be  totted  up,  and  the  total  divided  by  that  of 
the  days  he  lived,  he  would  be  found  to  have  produced 
nine  for  each  day.  Ibn  Khallikan  rejects  this  result,  as 
being  inadmissible  by  any  reasonable  man. 

In  tlie  field  of  linguistic  study  we  find  him  writing  a 
Taqwtin  al-lugha,  or  vocabulary  of  popular  mistakes  in 
language  :  in  that  of  history  the  Muntazam,  a  universal 
history  ;  the  Dhahab  al-Masbuk  (Molten  Gold),  a  history 
of  the  Moslem  sovereigns  ;  the  Akhbdr  al-adhkiyd  (Annals 
of  Intelligent  People) ;  the  Kitdb  al-Humaqd  (Book  of 
Fools);  the^z/i^(5«/-^2^j;fij(Bookof  Popular Story-Tellers); 
the  Wafd,  on  the  biography  of  the  Prophet ;  the  Mandqib, 
or  panegyrics  of 'Umar,  Hasan  al-Basri,  and  Ibn  Hanbal. 
As  connected  with  the  traditions  we  may  cite  his  Jdmi 
al-Masdnid,  drawn  up  by  Muhibbt  al-Tabari ;  his  Mantiq 
al-MafhUm,  containing  traditions  as  to  animals  and  in- 
animate objects  miraculously  endowed  with  powers  of 
speech,  and  his  MauM'dt,  or  forged  traditions,  now  at 
Cairo. 

Jurisprudence  owes  him  two  works — the   Tahqtq,  on 


320  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

the  disputed  traditions,  and  the  Bds  al-ashhab  al-Munqadd, 
which  is  a  defence  of  the  HanbaHte  doctrine  against  the 
anthropomorphists.  Koranic  exegesis  furnished  him 
with  matter  for  \i\?,^Ajaib  'uluni  al-Qur'dn,  a  general  in- 
troduction to  the  study  of  the  sacred  text ;  his  Mukhtasar 
and  his  Mujtabd,  both  of  them  abridgments  of  the 
first-named  work  ;  his  Zdd  al-Masir  (Provisions  for  the 
March),  a  manual  for  preachers ;  and  his  ^Arib,  a  com- 
mentary on  passages  which  are  difficult  to  read. 

His  interest  in  practical  morality  and  edification  led 
him  to  compile  many  works,  amongst  which  we  may 
mention  the  Talbis  Iblts  (The  Devil's  Wiles) ;  al-Haddiq 
(The  Gardens),  edifying  stories  of  the  Prophet  and  his 
companions  ;  the  Maurid al-  Adhb,  a  collection  of  seventy 
sermons  preached  by  him  at  Mecca ;  and  a  book  of 
lectures,  accompanied  by  a  lexicographical  commentary, 
written  in  the  space  of  thirty-four  days,  at  Bagdad. 
Medical  science  owes  him  the  Luqat  al-mandfi'' ,  a  work 
on  history,  nosology  and  therapeutics,  and  the  Tibb  al- 
RuMjtt  (Medicine  of  the  Soul).  The  Muthir  al-Asm 
and  the  Tabsirat  al-akhydr,  which  treats  of  the  Nile,  both 
belong  to  the  geographical  department.  The  Kitdb  al- 
Mudhish  is  not  easy  to  classify,  for  it  deals  at  once  with 
the  Koran,  with  the  science  of  language,  with  the  tradi- 
tions, with  history,  and  with  morality. 

Fakhr  al-dIn  al-RazI  was  the  son  of  a  preacher  at 
Rai,  the  ancient  Rhages,  near  the  present  city  of  Tehe- 
ran, and  was  born  there  on  7th  February  1149.  He 
studied  both  in  his  native  town  and  at  Maragha,  travelled 
along  the  banks  of  the  Amu-Daryi  and  in  Trahsoxania, 
was  driven  out  of  that  country,  went  to  Ghazna  and 
Khurisin,  and  was  there  received  with  much  honour. 
He  finally  settled  at  Herat,  and  died  there  in  1209.     His 


THE  'ABBASIDS  321 

writings  earned  considerable  success,  and  cast  those  of 
many  of  his  predecessors  into  obUvion.  He  was  the 
first  to  introduce  a  systematic  arrangement,  which  no 
writer  before  his  time  had  ever  attempted.  His  sermons, 
which  he  dehvered  both  in  Arabic  and  in  Persian, 
created  a  profound  impression,  and  touched  himself  so 
much  that  he  would  sometimes  shed  tears.  He  led  a 
great  many  disciples  of  the  anthropomorphist  sect  of  the 
Karramiyya  back  to  the  orthodox  faith. 

He  belonged  to  the  Shafi'ite  rite,  and  wrote  a  pane- 
gyric on  the  Imam  Shafi'i.  For  a  long  time  a  history 
(the  Fakhri,  by  Ibn  Tiqtaqa),  of  which  fragments  have 
been  published  by  Jourdain  and  Henzius,  was  ascribed 
to  him.  He  wrote  a  treatise  on  jurisprudence  en- 
titled MahsM ;  a  great  commentary  on  the  Koran, 
called  Mafdtih  al-ghaib  (Keys  of  tfie  World  of  Mystery), 
which  has  been  printed  at  Cairo  and  at  Constantinople  ; 
the  Asrdr  al-tansU  {Mysi&Ty  of  Revelation),  on  scholastic 
theology  ;  the  Matdlib  al-dliyya  (Superior  Questions),  on 
the  nature  of  the  Deity  ;  the  Mabdhith  al-shargiyja  (Ori- 
ental Questions),  on  physics  and  metaphysics,  a  subject 
also  dealt  with  in  the  Muhassal,  to  which  Schmoelders 
and  Schreiner  have  devoted  their  attention.  The  Sirr 
al-MaktHm  (Hidden  Secret)  is  a  complete  treatise  on 
astrology,  as  is  also  the  Ikhtiydrdt  al- Alaiyya,  originally 
written  in  Persian  for 'Ala  al-din.  King  of  Khwarizm,  and 
later  translated  into  Arabic  by  some  unknown  hand. 

Abia  Jafar  Nasir  al-dIn  al-Tus1  (1210-1273),  a 
famous  astronomer,  was  born  at  Tus  in  Khurasan,  and 
was  highly  esteemed  by  the  Mongol  Emperor  Hu- 
lagu,  who  valued  his  astrological  powers,  and  built 
him  an  observatory  at  Maragha.  He  accompanied  the 
sovereign  on  his  campaigns,  and  had  the  books  pillaged 


322  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

from  the  libraries  of  Bagdad,  Syria,  and  Mesopotamia 
set  apart  for  himself,  thus  amassing  a  considerable  library, 
amounting  to  over  four  hundred  thousand  volumes,  and 
saving  the  books  from  utter  destruction.  His  own  works 
are  compilations  from  others  existing  before  his  time  ; 
yet  he  deserves  credit  for  having  dealt  with  trigonometry 
as  a  separate  science.     He  died  at  Bagdad. 

In  the  field  of  jurisprudence  he  wrote  the  Jawdhir 
al-fard'id;  in  that  of  scholastic  theology,  the  Tajrid 
a/- Again',  which  has  been  freqtiently  commentated  ;  and 
the  Qawaid  al-Aqd'id  (Rule  of  the  Articles  of  Faith),  on 
the  nature  of  the  Deity,  the  character  of  the  prophecies 
and  of  the  order  of  the  Imams,  and  the  resurrection. 
In  philosophy,  he  drew  up  a  system  of  metaphysics  in 
Persian,  entitled  FusM,  which  has  been  translated  into 
Arabic  by  Jurjani,  and  also  a  Sufi  manual  called 
Ausdf  al-ashrdf.  In  mathematics,  he  left  an  Arabic  edi- 
tion of  Euclid's  Elements,  which  was  printed  at  Rome 
in  1594  ;  his  treatise  on  the  Quadrilateral  has  been  trans- 
lated into  French  by  Alexandre-Pacha  Carath6odory  from 
a  manuscript  at  Constantinople.  In  astronomy,  we  have 
his  edition  of  Ptolemy's  Almagest,  the  elements  of  astro- 
nomy, under  the  title  of  Tadhkira,  and  another  book 
of  the  same  nature  called  Zubdat  al-Idrdk.  He  drew  up 
in  Persian  the  famous  astronomical  tables  known  under 
the  name  of  ZtJ  Ilkhd?it  (Imperial  Tables),  which  were 
later  translated  into  Arabic ;  and  he  studied  various 
works  by  Autolycus,  Hypsicles,  Theodosius,  and  Aris- 
totle, with  which  he  made  acquaintance  through  the 
Arabic  translations  of  Thabit  ibn  Qurra  and  Qusta  ibn 
Luqa.  His  Albdb  al-bdhiyya  is  a  treatise  on  hygiene,  and 
his  Wdfi  is  a  comprehensive  treatise  on  geomancy.  Herr 
Brockelmann  enumerates  fifty-six  works  from  his  pen. 


CHAPTER   X 

ARABIC  LITERATURE  FROM  THE  CAPTURE 
OF  BAGDAD  DOWN  TO  THE  END  OF  THE 
EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY 

Poetry 

The  court  poet  to  the  Urtuqids,  then  reigning  at  Maridin, 
Safi  al-din  'Abdal-Aziz  ibn  Saraya  al-Hilh,  who  was 
born  on  27th  August  1278,  paid  a  visit  to  Egypt, 
to  the  court  of  Mahk-Nasir,  in  1326,  but  very  soon 
returned  to  Maridin.  He  died  at  Bagdad  towards 
1351.  His  contemporaries  held  him  to  be  one  of  their 
best  poets.  His  diwdn  has  been  printed  at  Damascus 
and  at  Beyrout.  His  poems  principally  consist  in  play 
upon  words.  Under  the  title  of  Qasida  of  the  Urtuqids 
he  composed  twenty-nine  poems,  each  containing  twenty- 
nine  couplets,  beginning  with  the  same  letter  of  the 
alphabet,  and  ending  in  the  same  order.  They  are 
devoted  to  the  praise  of  Malik- Mansijr  the  Urtuqid, 
who  reigned  from  1294  till  1312.  The  ode  he  addressed 
to  the  Egyptian  prince  to  whom  he  paid  a  visit  has 
been  translated  both  into  Latin  and  German  by  Bern- 
stein. He  also  wrote  popular  poetry,  and  a  book  en- 
titled al-Atil  al-hdli,  of  which  the  unique  manuscript  is 
at  Munich. 

Ibn  Nubata  Jamal  al-din  (i 287-1 366),  who  was  born 


324  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

at  Mayyafariqin,  was  brought  up  in  Egypt,  and  went  to 
Damascus  in  1316.  He  had  opportunities  of  frequenting 
the  court  of  Abu'1-Fida,  Prince  of  Hamat,  historian  and 
geographer,  and  was  afterwards  attached  to  his  adminis- 
tration as  a  secretary.  He  was  past  seventy  when  Sultan 
Hasan  summoned  him  to  Cairo  to  act  as  his  secretary 
there.  His  patron  unfortunately  died  in  the  following 
year,  and  the  pension  assigned  him  was  very  irregu- 
larly paid.  He  lived  to  be  seventy-nine  years  old,  and 
died  in  hospital.  He  left  a  diwdn,  an  anthology  {Saj^ 
al-Mutawwaq),  a  treatise  on  the  conduct  of  kings  {Sulilk 
duwal  al-muluk),  and  some  other  works. 

Ibn  Hijja  (Abu'l-Mahasin  Taqi  al-din)  (1366-1434) 
was  born  at  Hamat.  He  first  practised  the  manual  craft 
of  a  button-maker,  hence  his  surname  of  al-Azrari ;  at 
a  later  period  he  devoted  himself  to  study,  visited  Mosul, 
Damascus,  and  Cairo,  and  saw  Damascus  in  flames 
during  the  siege  of  that  city  by  the  Sultan  Barquq.  He 
composed  a  letter  to  Ibn  Makanis  on  the  subject  of  this 
disaster.  He  saw  Cairo  once  more,  and  held  a  post 
as  secretary  to  the  administration  there.  In  1419  we 
see  him  in  attendance  on  Prince  Ibrahim  during  a  cam- 
paign in  Asia  Minor.  He  returned  to  his  native  town 
in  1427,  and  died  there.  His  most  famous  work  is  an 
imitation  of  the  poem  of  "The  Cloak,"  in  honour  of  the 
Prophet,  in  which  all  the  flowers  of  Oriental  rhetoric 
are  displayed,  and  which  is  known  as  the  Badt  'iyya. 
He  collected  his  own  poems,  some  of  them  written  at 
Cairo  and  others  at  Hamat,  under  the  title  of  Thamardt 
al-Shdhiyya.  The  letters  and  diplomas  drawn  up  while 
he  was  in  the  service  of  the  Egyptian  Mamelukes  have 
been  put  together  in  a  book  called  Qahwat  al-inshd  (The 
Intoxicating  Liquor  of  Epistolary  Style).     An  anthology 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  325 

in  prose  and  verse  called  Thamardt  al-Aui'&q  (Fruits  of 
the  Leaves)  was  printed  at  Buliq  on  the  margin  of 
Raghib  Isfahani's  Muhddardt.  Other  and  less  important 
works  of  his  of  the  same  nature  are  some  compilations 
drawn  from  the  books  of  Ibn  Khallikan,  Ibn  Hisham, 
and  Damiri. 

Nasir  al-din  Nusair  al-Hammami  lived  at  Cairo.  He 
was  a  man  of  shrewd  and  crafty  character ;  he  lived 
by  hiring  and  farming  out  the  public  baths  {hamnidni), 
hence  his  surname.  When  he  grew  old  he  was  obliged 
to  relinquish  this  occupation,  and  took  to  begging,  offer- 
ing poems  and  niuwashshahs  of  his  own  composition  for 
sale.     He  died  in  1312. 

Siraj  al-din  "Umar  ibn  Masud,  surnamed  al-Majjan 
(the  Obscene),  was  much  sought  after  in  society ;  he 
was  the  author  of  muwashshahs,  and  died  at  Damascus 
in  1301. 

A  grammatical  critic  who  discovered  mistakes  even  in 
the  work  of  the  best  poets  and  lexicographers  was 
Sheikh  Taqi  al-din 'Abdallah  al-Saruji,  who  was  born  at 
Saruj  in  1230,  and  died  at  Cairo  in  1294.  He  wrote 
many  poems  which  singers  made  known  to  the  public. 
He  rarely  left  his  home,  never  being  seen  except  on 
Fridays.  He  did  not  like  his  name  to  be  announced, 
and  was  in  the  habit  of  saying  :  "Amongst  friends  there 
are  three  degrees  of  friendship.  At  first,  I  hear  myself 
called  Sheikh  Taqi  al-din  ;  later,  I  hear  nothing  but 
plain  Taqi  al-din,  and  I  feel  they  are  getting  tired  of  • 
me ;  but  when  they  come  to  calling  me  al-Saruji,  I 
know  they  have  done  with  me." 

Shams  al-din  al-Dahhan  (Muhammad  ibn  'Ali)  was 
an  oil-maker,  hence  his  surname.  His  trade  in  no  way 
harmed   his   talent.     He    was   a   poet   and   musician,  a 


3  26  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

virtuoso  on  the  stringed  instrument  known  as  the  qarnln 
(a  harp  laid  on  a  sounding  board,  rather  larger  than 
the  Austrian  zither,  and  smaller  than  the  Hungarian 
cymbaluni),  and  he  also  composed  musical  airs.  He  died 
in  1321. 

Sharaf  ibn  As'ad  al-Misri  was  a  man  of  the  lower 
class,  with  a  natural  gift,  who  composed  comic  and 
obscene  poetry,  and  frequented  loose  society  and  public 
singers  of  the  fair  sex.     He  died  in  1337. 

'Uthman  Abu'1-Fath  al-Balati  was  born  at  Balat,  a 
small  town  near  Mosul.  He  was  tall  and  fat,  with  a  long 
beard.  Even  in  the  height  of  summer  he  wore  a  huge 
turban,  and  garments  piled  one  on  top  of  the  other.  He 
had  studied  for  some  time  at  Damascus.  When  Saladin 
seized  Egypt,  he  proceeded  to  that  country  and  was 
appointed  reader  and  teacher  of  grammar  in  the  Great 
Mosque.  He  was  addicted  to  drink  and  pleasure.  Ojie 
day,  when  a  musician  had  come  to  sing  him  an  air,  he 
began  to  weep,  and  the  singer  followed  his  example. 
Abu'1-Fath,  in  surprise,  asked  why  the  other  wept. 
"  Because  my  father  used  to  weep  when  he  heard  that 
air,  and  you  reminded  me  of  him,"  quoth  the  singer. 
"Then  you  must  be  my  brother's  son!"  said  Abu'l- 
Fath,  and  from  that  time  he  never  called  the  musician 
anything  but  "  my  nephew,"  and  made  him  his  only 
legatee.  He  wrote  a  muwashshah  in  praise  of  the  qddi 
Al-Fadil. 

IBN  Fadl-Allah  al-Umar1  (Shihab  al-dhi  Abu'l- 
Abbas)  (1301-1348)  was  descended  from  the  Caliph 
'Umar,  and  came  of  a  family  of  Shafi'ite  magistrates. 
The  facility  with  which  he  could  write  sudden  impro- 
visations was  much  extolled.  He  was,  according  to 
Safadi's  expression,  a  finished  man  of  letters ;  that  is  to 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF  BAGDAD  327 

say,  that  in  his  verse  and  in  his  prose,  theory  and  practice, 
science  and  action,  were  equally  balanced.  He  possessed 
a  wide  knowledge  of  biography,  history,  and  geography. 
He  was  born  at  Damascus,  studied  law  and  prosody  in 
his  native  city,  and  then  travelled  in  the  countries  under 
Egyptian  rule.  He  accompanied  his  father  when  Malik- 
Nasir  appointed  him  Secretary  of  State ;  was  himself 
appointed  qddi  in  Cairo,  and  Secretary  of  State  as  well, 
when  his  father  died  in  that  office.  He  finally  returned 
to  Damascus,  and  died  there  of  the  plague.  His  Masdlik 
al-absdr  is  a  geographical,  historical,  and  biographical 
work  in  over  twenty  volumes,  of  which  studies  by 
Guignes  (1758)  and  Quatremere  (1838)  appeared  in 
Notices  et  Extraits.  Pococke  made  use  of  it  for  his 
history  of  the  Arabs.  His  Tdrif  bil-mustalah  al-sharif 
is  a  collection  of  models  for  letters  addressed  by  the 
Mameluke  Sultans  to  foreign  powers.  The  Shatawiyydt 
(Hibernals)  are  letters  sent  to  several  learned  men  from 
Damascus  during  the  winter  of  1343-1344,  when  the  city 
was  deep  in  snow.  The  manuscript  of  this  book  is  now 
at  Leyden.  A  large  work  in  four  volumes,  Fawddil 
al-samar,  is  devoted  to  the  praise  of  the  virtues  of  his 
own  family.  He  composed  many  odes  and  poems  in 
the  classic  metres,  besides  popular  poetry  in  strophes, 
inuwashshahs,  and  dii-baits. 

Ibn  al-Tharada  ('All  ibn  Ibrahim),  a  preacher  at 
Wasit,  was  born  in  June  1298.  He  studied  at  Bagdad, 
and  paid  several  visits  to  Damascus,  where  he  preached 
in  the  Great  Mosque  of  the  Omeyyads.  He  then  fell  ill 
of  melancholia,  and  died  in  Ibn  Suwaid's  lunatic  hospital, 
at  Damascus,  in  1349.  His  harmless  mania  consisted  in 
carrying  a  bag  under  his  arm,  to  which  he  fastened  all 
the  threads  and  strings  he  came  across,  and  with  which 


328  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

he  would  never  part.  His  malady  did  not  prevent  him 
from  composing  excellent  poetry.  He  fancied  himself  the 
possessor  of  a  library  of  two  thousand  volumes,  which 
he  had  left  behind  him  at  Bagdad,  and  of  which  the 
inerchants  had  taken  possession,  and  sold  it,  book  by 
book,  in  the  Damascus  bazaars.  When  he  died,  his  bag 
was  opened,  and  its  only  contents  were  found  to  be 
scattered  sheets,  on  which  verses  and  sermons  were 
inscribed.  He  also  composed  poems  in  strophes 
vmwashshahs,  and  mawdliyds. 

Ibn  al-Murahhal  (Sadr  al-din  Muhammad)  (1267- 
1316),  who  is  better  known  in  Syria  by  his  surname 
of  Ibn  al-Wakil,  was  of  Egyptian  origin.  He  was 
born  at  Damietta,  and  died  at  Cairo.  It  was  at 
Damascus  that  he  studied  jurisprudence — the  basis  of 
all  other  knowledge  in  that  country,  as  theology  was 
elsewhere.  He  knew  a  great  many  books  by  heart,  such 
as  the  Mufassal,  which  he  committed  to  memory  in  a 
hundred  and  one  days ;  Hariri's  Lectures,  which  he 
learned  in  fifty ;  and  Mutanabbi's  dtwdn,  which,  we  are 
assured,  he  acquired  in  a  single  week.  He  had  a  gift 
for  controversy,  and  was  the  only  person  among  the 
Shah'ites  capable  of  holding,  his  ground  in  discussion 
with  Sheikh  Taqi  al-din  Ibn  Taimiyya.  For  seven  years 
he  performed  the  duties  of  Sheikh  of  the  Ashrafiyya 
School  of  the  traditions.  He  was  a  discreet  and  a  very 
reserved  man,  a  friend  of  great  folks,  and  a  lover  of 
society.  He  wrote  verses  in  every  style,  including  such 
popular  forms  as  the  inuwashshah,  du-bait,  mukhainnias, 
zajal,  and  billiq.  He  collected  his  principal  poetical 
compositions  into  an  anthology  entitled  Al-ashbdh  wd L- 
Nazd'ir. 

Yiisuf    Ibn   Zailaq   was    killed    by   the    Mongols   at 


AFTER   THE    FALL   OF   BAGDAD  329 

the  taking  of  Mosul  in  1262.  Some  of  his  poems — 
several  of  them  muwashshahs,  intended  to  be  sung,  and  of 
an  erotic  tendency — are  preserved  in  al-Kutubi's  Fawdt 
al-Wafaydt.  Shams  al-din  Muhammad,  the  preacher  of 
Wasit,  who  died  in  1344,  when  nearly  seventy  years  of 
age,  also  wrote  popular  poetry. 

Al-Kaiwani  was  descended  from  Kaiwan,  a  former 
slave  belonging  to  Ridwan-Pashi,  Governor  of  Gaza, 
who  became  a  soldier  in  the  Syrian  troops,  and  reached 
high  military  rank.  These  Syrian  troops  were  well 
known  for  the  violence  and  injustice  of  their  conduct, 
Kaiwan  was  killed  at  Baalbek  in  1623.  When 'Uthman 
Khalisa,  kiaya  to  the  Grand  Vizier,  reached  Damascus, 
al-Kaiwani  attached  himself  to  his  service,  and  followed 
him  on  the  campaign  in  which  he  took  part  and  was 
killed.  After  his  patron's  death  he  returned  to  Con- 
stantinople, and  thence  to  Syria.  Here  it  was  that  his 
character  assumed  the  sad  and  melancholy  tone  which 
marks  his  poetry.  He  addressed  panegyrics  to  Abdal- 
lah-Pacha  Cheteji,  when  that  functionary,  as  Governor 
of  Damascus,  put  down  the  riots  which  were  filling  the 
city  with  blood.  The  quality  of  his  rhymed  prose  was 
also  remarkable. 

'Abdal-Ghan!  of  Nabulus  (1641-1731),  who  was  affili- 
ated to  the  religious  orders  of  the  Naqshbandis  and  the 
Qadiris,  was  born  at  Damascus,  of  a  family  belonging 
to  Nabulus.  He  lost  his  father  while  still  very  young, 
studied  jurisprudence,  and  began  to  write  when  he  was 
only  twenty.  For  seven  years  he  stayed  within  the  house 
he  occupied,  close  to  the  Mosque  of  the  Omeyyads,  and 
spiteful  tongues  asserted  that  he  no  longer  performed  his 
devotions  five  times  a  day,  and  that  he  satirised  his  neigh- 
bours in  his  poems.     The  mob  rose,  and  handled  him 


330  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

roughly,  for  which  cause  he  wrote  satires  against  it ;  but 
in  later  years  he  was  looked  on  as  a  saint,  and  people 
crowded  to  see  him.  He  went  to  Constantinople  in 
1664,  but  did  not  remain  there  long.  In  1688  he  went 
to  the  Beq'a  and  to  Lebanon  ;  in  1689,  to  Jerusalem 
and  Hebron.  In  1693  he  travelled  to  Egypt,  and  thence 
to  the  Hijaz.  In  1700  he  spent  some  forty  days  at 
Tripoli  in  Syria.  In  April  1707  he  left  the  house  hitherto 
occupied  by  his  masters  in  the  centre  of  the  town,  and 
settled  at  Salihiyya,  on  the  slopes  of  Mount  Qasyun, 
a  sort  of  suburb  of  the  Syrian  capital.  His  principal 
prose  works  are  an  unfinished  commentary  on  Baidawi's 
Tafstr,  a  commentary  on  the  diwdn  of  'Umar  Ibn  al- 
Farid,  and  innumerable  stanzas  of  poetry.  It  is  said  that 
Abdal-Ghani  could  perform  miracles,  but  disliked  any 
reference  to  this  gift.  He  was  always  ready  to  intercede 
with  the  authorities  in  favour  of  any  unfortunate  person 
who  applied  to  him.  His  poetry  became  known  all  over 
the  Arab  world.  He  died,  aged  over  ninety,  after  a  very 
short  illness,  on  24th  Sha'ban  1143  (4th  March  1731). 
The  bazaars  of  the  city  were  all  closed  on  the  day  of  his 
funeral,  and  the  populace  crowded  to  Salihiyya  to  be 
present  at  the  last  rites. 

The  Amir  Manjak  ibn  Muhammad  al-Yusufi  (1596- 
1669)  was  descended  from  the  chief  of  the  same 
name,  who  ruled  Damascus  about  the  year  1370.  On 
his  father's  death,  he  spent  his  fortune  freely,  com- 
pletely dissipated  it  by  his  extravagance,  and  then  retired 
from  general  society.  He  left  Arab  territory  and  went 
to  Turkish  countries,  and  even  presented  a  poem  to  the 
Sultan  Ibrahim,  receiving,  however,  nothing  in  exchange. 
To  record  his  days  of  poverty  and  suffering  at  Con- 
stantinople, he  wrote  his  RAmiyydt ;   other  poems   are 


AFTER  THE   FALL  OF   BAGDAD  331 

devoted  to  the  praise  of  wine  and  of  asceticism.  A  year 
before  he  died,  he  returned  to  his  dissipated  habits. 

Sheikh  Mustafa  EfendI  al-Bab1  derived  his  surname 
from  a  village  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Aleppo  called 
al-Bab.  After  beginning  his  legal  studies  at  Aleppo,  he 
proceeded  in  1641  to  Damascus,  for  the  purpose  of 
completing  them  there.  Later,  as  the  result  of  a  journey 
to  Constantinople,  in  the  course  of  which  he  wrote  a 
poem  on  that  city,  in  which  he  conjures  up  the  memory 
of  his  own  fatherland,  he  entered  the  Ottoman  magis- 
tracy. He  also  addressed  praises  to  the  Sheikh  al-Islim, 
Yahya  Efendi,  and  to  the  Grand  Vizier,  Ahmad-Pashi 
Kyiiprulii.  He  held  the  post  of  qddt  at  Tripoli  in 
Syria,  at  Magnesia  in  Asia  Minor,  at  Bagdid,  and  last 
of  all  at  Medina  (1680).  He  made  the  pilgrimage  that 
year,  and  died  at  Mecca  in  January  1681.  His  diwdn, 
which  was  printed  at  Beyrout  in  1872,  contains  a  funeral 
oration  on  one  of  his  molar  teeth,  which  had  been  pulled 
out.     It  is  a  very  amusing  piece  of  verse. 

The  daughter  of  Ahmad  ibn  Nasir  al-din  al-Ba'uni, 
'A'iSHA  AL-Ba'uniyya,  wrote  the  Fatk  al-Mubin,  an  ode, 
rhymed  in  m,  in  praise  of  the  Prophet.  This  work 
is  accompanied  by  a  commentary  of  the  author's  own 
composition,  which  was  completed  in  1516.  Witty 
verses  from  her  pen  are  also  quoted,  in  which  she 
has  contrived,  in  the  space  of  five  stanzas,  to  express 
the  opinions  of  the  doctors  of  the  four  orthodox  rites 
on  some  legal  controversy.  To  this  same  family  of 
Al-Bauni  also  belonged  Baha  al-din  Muhammad  ibn 
Yusuf  (1446-1505),  who  was  born  in  the  suburb  of 
Salihiyya,  which  spreads  over  the  lower  slopes  of  Mount 
Qasyun,  near  Damascus.  He  was  a  lover  of  history, 
and  was  fond  of  reducing  its  annals  within  the  limits 


332  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

of  short  mnemonic  poems.  Thus  he  wrote  a  rajaz, 
the  Tuhfat  al-Zurafa,  on  general  history  down  to  the 
enthronement  of  the  Mameluke  Sultan  Qait-Bai,  and 
another  on  the  rule  of  the  two  Egyptian  sovereigns  Bars- 
Bai  and  Qait-Bai.  He  likewise  did  not  fail  to  follow 
ancient  custom,  by  devoting  a  panegyric,  for  which  he 
was  doubtless  well  rewarded,  to  the  glory  of  the  latter 
of  these  two  sovereigns,  and  also  wrote  a  poem  called 
Bahja  al-Klialad,  a  treatise  on  the  education  of  chil- 
dren. 

The  diwdn  of  Ibn  Ma'tuq  (1614-1676),  which  was 
collected  and  published  by  his  son,  is  full  of  panegyrics 
on  various  Persian  governors  under  the  reign  of  the 
Safavid  prince,  Shah  Sa.i.  It  was  lithographed,  pro- 
bably at  Cairo,  in  1861. 

Ahmad  al  -  Kurdi  ibn  Ilyas,  surnamed  al  -  Arrajani 
al-Saghir,  and  the  "  strolling  Qamus,"  a  man  of  Kurdish 
origin,  was  a  poet  and  lexicographer.  His  father,  who 
came  from  Shahrizur,  had  settled  at  Damascus,  and 
been  appointed  preacher  in  the  caravanserai  of  the 
small  town  of  Nebk,  where  he  had  married.  He  was 
born  in  the  twelfth  century  of  the  Hegira  (from  1689 
onwards),  went  to  Damascus  to  study  at  the  Sumaisat 
Madrasa,  and  became  cook  in  that  school.  His  fickle 
nature,  and  his  perpetual  quarrelling,  made  his  life  diffi- 
cult, and  he  departed  to  Constantmople,  fearing  legal 
proceedings  might  be  taken  against  him  On  account 
of  some  misbehaviour.  His  own  thoughtless  conduct 
forced  him,  at  last,  to  leave  the  capital  of  the  Empire, 
although  he  had  found  a  protector  there,  and  he  went 
to  Tripoli  in  Syria,  where  he  married  and  obtained 
various  posts.  Thence  he  passed  on  into  Egypt,  where 
the  governor,  Muhammad-Pasha  Raghib,  took  him  under 


AFTER   THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  333 

his  protection.  He  attended  him  to  Aleppo  when  he 
was  appointed  governor  of  that  city,  and  died  there  in 
April  1756. 

History 

Muhammad  ibn  'All  Ibn  Tabataba,  surnamed  Ibn 
AL-TlQTAQA,  who  was  born  towards  1262,  was  the  guest 
of  the  Governor  of  Mosul,  Fakhr  al-din'tsa  ibn  Ibrahim, 
in  the  year  1302,  when  he  dedicated  his  history  of  the 
Moslem  Empire,  from  its  foundation  down  to  the  Cali- 
phate of  Bagdad,  to  him.  It  was  entitled  al-Fakhrt,  and 
has  been  published  first  by  Ahlwardt,  and  afterwards  by 
H.  Derenbourg. 

The  author  of  this  work  has  applied  himself  to  writ- 
ing a  clear  style,  which  all  may  comprehend,  having 
remarked  that  many  writers  have  limited  the  utility  of 
their  productions  by  indulging  in  affected  language,  and 
employing  unusual  terms.  His  great  desire  is  to  make 
himself  understood,  for  his  book  is  a  treatise  on  politics 
for  the  use  of  sovereigns  who  desire  to  rule  themselves, 
and  not  to  continue  mere  toys  in  their  ministers'  hands. 
His  precepts  on  government  are  supported  by  instances 
drawn  from  the  history  of  the  Oriental  dynasties. 

Ahmad  al-Ghabrin1  (1246-1314),  of  the  Berber  tribe 
of  Ghabra,  was  born  at  Bijaya,  acted  as  qddi  of  that 
place,  and  died  there.  Under  the  title  of  ^Unwdn  al- 
dirdya,  he  has  left  us  a  gallery  of  the  men  of  letters 
of  his  native  town  during  the  seventh  century  of  the 
Hegira,  which  has  been  introduced  to  European  readers 
by  Cherbonneau. 

Abu'l  -  Hasan  'Ali  Ibn  Afii  Zar',  who  was  born  at 
Grenada,  and  settled  in  Morocco,  relates  the  history  of 
the  kings  of  the   Maghrib  and  of  the  town  of  Fez  in 


334  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

his  Raud  al-Qartds  (The  Paper  Garden,  the  name  of  a 
favourite  spot  outside  the  gates  of  Fez),  which  has  been 
published  by  Tornberg  at  Upsala,  translated  into  German 
at  Agram,  in  1794,  by  F.  von  Bombay,  into  Portuguese 
at  Lisbon,  in  1828,  by  Brother  Joz6  de  Santo  Antonio 
Moura,  and  into  French  by  Beaumier,  in  i860. 

The  qddi  IBN  Taimiyya  (Taqi  al-din  Abu'l- Abbas) 
( 1 263-1328)  was  born  at  Harran.  He  was  descended 
from  a  famous  preacher  who  bore  the  same  surname. 
His  father,  with  his  whole  family,  fled  before  the  Mongols. 
Not  being  able  to  procure  beasts  of  burden,  he  loaded 
his  books  upon  a  cart,  which,  so  hot  was  the  enemy's 
pursuit,  he  was  obliged  to  abandon  in  order  to  save  him- 
self. They  took  refuge  at  Damascus,  where  young  Ibn 
Taimiyya  studied  Hanbalite  law,  and,  when  his  father 
died,  taught  in  his  place.  He  was  then  only  twenty-one 
years  old.  He  enjoyed  the  favour  of  Sultan  Malik-Nasir, 
who  had  ascended  the  throne  in  1294,  but  his  strong 
polemics  made  him  many  enemies,  and  his  reply  to 
a  question  put  forward  at  Hamat  as  to  the  attributes 
of  the  Deity  stirred  public  opinion  against  him,  and 
led  to  his  dismissal.  This  persecution  never  ceased, 
though  he  was  occasionally  recalled  to  his  post,  as, 
for  instance,  when  his  preaching  was  needed  to  stir 
up  the  populace  to  war  against  the  Mongols.  In 
1305  he  went  to  Cairo  with  the  Shafi'ite  qddi.  After 
a  sitting  of  the  council  and  leading  men  he  was  shut 
up,  with  his  two  brothers,  in  the  well  of  the  citadel, 
and  remained  there  for  two  years.  He  was  then 
brought  back  with  post-horses  to  Damascus,  and  spent 
as  long  a  time  in  prison  there.  He  employed  the 
period  of  his  imprisonment  in  edifying  his  fellow- 
prisoners  on  religious  subjects.     He  was  sent  back  to 


AFTER   THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAd  335 

Cairo,  and  Sultan  Baibars  had  him  detained  in  the 
fortress  of  Alexandria,  where  he  only  remained  for  eight 
months,  Malik-Nasir's  return  to  power  having  brought 
him  his  liberty.  Instead  of  taking  vengeance  on  his 
enemies,  he  forgave  them.  Ibn  Taimiyya  was  appointed 
professor  at  the  school  founded  by  the  Sultan,  and 
continued  to  be  his  counsellor.  He  took  advantage 
of  the  departure  of  the  army  for  Syria  to  accompany 
it,  went  to  Jerusalem,  and  returned  to  Damascus  after 
an  absence  of  more  than  seven  years.  He  assumed 
his  former  functions  as  teacher  and  judge,  but  the 
hatred  of  his  enemies,  which  now  broke  out  afresh, 
procured  a  decree  forbidding  him  to  hold  any  public 
employment.  He  refused  to  obey,  and  was  imprisoned 
for  nearly  six  months.  On  recovering  his  liberty  he 
recommenced  his  former  mode  of  life,  until  the  pub- 
lication of  his  work  on  a  visit  to  the  tombs  of  the 
prophets  and  saints  resulted  in  his  imprisonment  in 
the  citadel.  He  was  assigned  a  separate  cell,  in  which 
he  was  able  to  carry  on  his  literary  work,  and  wrote 
several  books  on  subjects  connected  with  the  cause 
of  his  incarceration.  But  when  these  works  became 
matters  of  public  knowledge,  his  books,  paper,  and  ink 
were  taken  from  him,  and  this  was  the  most  cruel 
blow  he  ever  received.  He  very  soon  fell  ill,  and  died 
within  three  weeks,  in  September  1328.  His  funeral 
obsequies  were  attended  by  an  extraordinary  concourse 
of  people.  Of  Ibn  Taimiyya's  many  works,  that  most 
utilised  in  European  science  has  been  the  fatwd  issued 
by  him  against  the  Nusairis  or  Ansaris  of  the  Syrian 
mountains,  which  has  been  studied  by  E.  Salisbury 
and  Stanislas  Guyard.  Maracci  made  use  of  one  of 
his  works  against  the  Christians  {TakhjU  ahl  al-lnjil) 


336  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

in  the  preface  to  the  refutation  of  the  Koran.  Forty- 
five  works  from  the  pen  of  this  original  writer  are 
now  in  various  European  libraries. 

It  was  from  the  Hanbalite  teachings  of  Ibn  Taimiyya 
and  his  disciples  that  'Abdal-Wahhab  drew  the  Sunnite 
fanaticism  and  hatred  of  innovation  which  are  the  dis- 
tinguishing features  of  the  movement  for  the  reform 
of  Islam  known  under  the  name  of  Wahhabeeism. 
This  has  been  demonstrated  by  Snouck  Hurgronje, 
and  Goldziher.  The  qddt  was  an  anthropomorphist, 
and  insisted  on  the  literal  interpretation  of  the  passages 
in  the  Koran  relating  to  the  personality  of  the  Deity. 
In  jurisprudence  he  accepted  logical  deductions  drawn 
by  himself  from  the  corpus  of  the  traditions,  and  prac- 
tised the  qijds  or  use  of  analogy.  Ibn  Batuta,  the 
traveller,  relates  that  he  was  greatly  respected  at 
Damascus,  that  he  discoursed  on  the  various  sciences, 
but  that  there  was  something  unhinged  in  his  brain. 
When  brought  before  Malik-Nasir  at  Cairo,  his  only 
answer  to  the  Grand  Qadi's  questions  as  to  the  accusa- 
tions put  forward  against  him  was  :  "There  is  no  God 
but  God."  His  favourite  disciple  was  Ibn  Qayyim  al- 
Jauziyya  (Shams  al-din  Muhammad),  who  probably 
helped  him  to  revise  the  style  of  his  compositions,  and 
himself  vi^rote  books,  some  thirty  of  which  are  now  pre- 
served in  various  libraries.  He  was  born  in  Damascus 
in  1292,  the  son  of  the  curator  of  the  Al-Jauziyya 
Madrasa.  He  shared  his  master's  tribulations,  and 
was  imprisoned  with  him  at  Cairo.  His  persecutions 
did  not  end  with  Ibn  Taimiyya's  death,  but  continued 
for  some  time  afterwards.  Shams  al-din  died  on  17th 
September  1350. 

Scarcely    anything    is    known   of    the    life   of    Hafiz 


AFTER   THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAd  337 

a!-din  Abu'l-Barakat  al-Nasafi,  who  died  in  1310, 
and  wliose  works  have  enjoyed  the  signal  honour  of 
tempting  a  swarm  of  commentators.  Of  his  Mandr 
al-anwdr  (The  Beacon  of  Lights),  a  work  on  law,  the 
bibliographer  H§ji  Khalfa  mentions  nearly  fifty  com- 
mentaries. His  Wdfi,  and  its  commentary  the  Kdft, 
were  finished  at  Bukhara  in  1275.  An  abridgment 
by  the  author  himself,  at  a  later  date,  is  the  Kanz 
al-daqd'iq.  His  Umda,  a  Moslem  catechism,  has  been 
published  in  London,  by  W.  Cureton,  under  the  title 
of  Pillar  of  the  Sunnite  Creed.  A  commentary  on  this 
work,  by  its  own  author,  is  called  al-Piirndd  ft'l-i'' 
tiqdd. 

Rashid  al-din  (Fadl-Allah  ibn  Abi'l-Khair),  the  Per- 
sian historian  of  the  Mongols,  was  born  at  Hamadhan 
in  1247,  and  executed  at  Tabriz  in  1318,  having  been 
accused  of  poisoning  the  Sultan  Uljaitu.  He  was 
a  physician,  of  Jewish  origin.  He  was  physician  to 
Abaqa,  and  afterwards  minister  to  Ghazan  and  to  his 
brother  Uljaitu.  He  wrote  four  Arabic  works,  now 
preserved  in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale — Mafdtih  al- 
tafdsir,  Lata  if  al-haqd^iq,  Taudihdt,  and  Sultdniyya. 

AbO'l  -  FiDA  Ismail  ibn  "Ali  belonged  to  that 
Ayyubite  family  which  the  fortunes  of  Saladin  raised 
to  various  thrones.  His  ancestors  had  ruled  at  Hamat. 
His  father,  Al-Malik  al-Afdal,  brother  of  Prince  Al-Malik 
al-Mansur,  had  been  forced,  with  all  his  family,  to 
flee  before  the  Mongols,  and  had  taken  refuge  in 
the  house  of  Ibn  al-Zanjabili,  at  Damascus.  There 
Abu'l  Fida  was  born,  in  the  year  1273.  He  was 
brought  up  both  as  a  warrior  and  as  a  man  of  letters. 
He  was  hardly  twelve  years  old  when  he  accompanied 
his  father  to  the  siege  of  the  fortress  of  Markab,  which 


3  38  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

was  wrested  from  the  Knights  Hospitallers  in  1285. 
He  was  at  the  taking  of  TripoH,  and  at  the  siege  of 
St.  Jean  d'Arc,  on  which  occasion  he  commanded  a 
squad  of  ten  men.  In  1310,  as  a  reward  for  his 
services  to  the  Egyptian  Sultan  Malik-Nasir,  he  was 
made  Prince  of  Hamat,  after  that  State  had  been 
confiscated  because  his  cousin  had  died  childless. 
The  title  of  honour  of  Malik-Salih,  and  subsequently 
that  of  Malik-Mu'ayyad,  rewarded  the  attention  with 
which  he  yearly  journeyed  to  Cairo  to  renew  the 
bonds  of  vassalage  between  himself  and  the  Sultan. 
In  1313  he  assisted  the  Egyptian  troops  to  re-establish 
the  Sharif  Abu'l-Ghaith  in  power  at  Mecca.  He  died 
of  intermittent  fever,  in  his  sixtieth  year,  in  October 
1331.  His  Universal  History,  which  made  his  reputa- 
tion, is  a  mere  abridgment  of  that  of  Ibn  al-Athir, 
itself  abridged  from  Tabari's,  and  carried  down  to  the 
year  1329,  but  it  had  the  advantage  of  attracting  the 
notice  of  Orientalists  at  a  time  when  the  world  was 
not,  as  yet,  in  possession  of  the  two  older  works. 

This  text,  part  of  which  was  published  by  Reiske  at 
Copenhagen,  under  the  title  of  Annates  Muslemici,  has  fur- 
nished subject-matter  for  other  inquirers.  Thus  Fleischer 
has  translated  into  Latin  and  published  the  portion  de- 
voted to  pre-Islamic  history,  from  which  Albert  Schultens 
and  Silvestre  de  Sacy  had  already  given  extracts.  The 
life  of  Mahomet,  translated  into  Latin  by  Gagnier,  has 
been  translated  into  French  and  published  by  Nodi  des 
Vergers,  and  into  English  by  W.  Murray.  His  general 
geography,  with  tables,  has  been  published  by  Reinaud 
and  MacGuckin  de  Slane,  and  translated  into  French 
by  Reinaud  and  Stanislas  Guyard.  The  first  of  these 
Orientalists  has  written,  as  a  preface  to  his  translation,  a 


AFTER   THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  339 

general  introduction  to  the  geography  of  the  Orientals, 
which  is  one  of  his  best  works. 

Abu'l- Abbas  Ahmad  AL-NuWAiRt  (1282-1332)  was 
born  in  Egypt,  in  the  little  town  of  Nuwaira.  He 
was  famous  both  as  a  lawyer  and  a  historian.  So 
highly  was  his  penmanship  esteemed  that  he  was 
paid  a  thousand  dirhems  for  each  of  his  eight  copies 
of  Bukhari's  Sahth.  His  encyclopaedia,  Nihdyat  al-arab 
(The  Extreme  Need),  is  a  general  review  of  human 
knowledge,  in  five  great  divisions — Heaven,  Earth,  Man, 
Animals,  Plants,  and  History ;  from  this  work  Albert 
Schultens  drew  his  history  of  the  Yoqtanids  in  the 
Yemen.  His  history  of  Sicily  has  been  translated  into 
French  by  the  elder  Caussin  ;  his  Conquest  of  Northern 
Africa  by  the  Arabs  has  been  studied  by  Otter ;  his 
history  of  the  same  country  has  been  translated  by  De 
Slane.  Silvestre  de  Sacy  has  made  an  extract  of  the 
part  relating  to  the  Druses,  Hammer-Purgstall  one  of 
that  dealing  with  the  Egyptian  decrees  as  to  the  dress 
of  Christians  and  Jews,  and  Defrdmery  has  quoted  the 
anecdotes  connected  with  the  life  of  the  Sultan  Baibars. 

Abu'1-Fath  Muhammad  IBN  Sayyid  al-Nas  (1263- 
1334),  whose  parents  were  of  Sevillian  origin,  was  born 
at  Cairo,  and  went  to  Damascus  in  1291,  to  complete  his 
studies.  He  is  said  to  have  taken  lessons  from  almost 
one  thousand  professors.  On  his  return,  he  taught  in  his 
native  town.  He  loved  books,  and  collected  a  fine  library, 
in  which,  besides  his  own  manuscripts,  autographs  of 
famous  works  were  to  be  found.  He  compiled  a  bio- 
graphy of  Mahomet  called  ^UyAn  al-dthdr  (Sources  of 
the  Monuments),  and,  under  the  title  of  Bushrd  al-labib 
(Message  of  the  Man  of  Sense),  collected  his  own 
verses  in  praise  of  the  Prophet.     It  is  from  this  collec- 


340  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

fion  that  Kosegarten  extracted  the  ode  included  in  his 
Carminum  Orientalium  Triga. 

Shams  al-din  Abu  'Abdallah  al-Sufi  al-DimashqI 
(1254-1327)  was  imam  of  the  Httle  village  of  Rabwa,  near 
Damascus,  whereof  Ibn  Batuta  has  written  "it  is  one 
of  the  prettiest  views  in  the  world,  and  one  of  the  most 
beautiful  pleasure  spots ;  there  are  tall  palaces,  noble 
buildings,  and  exquisite  gardens."  It  was  a  place  of 
pilgrimage,  on  account  of  a  little  grotto,  opposite  which 
was  the  supposed  oratory  of  Khidr,  who  was  likened  to 
the  prophet  Elias.  A  large  proportion  of  the  cultivated 
fields,  orchards,  and  houses  were  legacies  from  pious 
persons,  and  what  they  brought  in  served  to  support 
the  imam,  the  muezzin,  and  the  pilgrims.  Here  Shams 
al-din  wrote  his  cosmography,  Nukhbat  al-dahr,  which 
has  been  published  by  Mehren,  at  St.  Petersburg,  and 
translated  by  him  at  Copenhagen.  This  work  has  quite 
recently  (1898)  served  as  the  basis  of  a  dissertation  by 
H.  Deherain.  Shams  al-din,  who  was  a  mystic,  retired, 
at  a  later  date,  to  Safad  in  Palestine,  and  there  died.  He 
also  cultivated  poetry,  and  some  lines  of  his,  inspired  by 
the  beauty  of  the  neighbourhood  of  Damascus,  are  often 
quoted.  From  the  critic's  point  of  view,  according  to 
Reinaud,  his  cosmography  leaves  much  to  be  desired, 
but  it  has  been  most  useful  to  students  of  the  geography 
of  the  Middle  Ages,  for  it  contains  information  as  to 
facts  which  are  not  mentioned  elsewhere. 

AbO  Hayyan  Muhammad  ibn  Yusuf,  of  the  Berber 
tribe  of  Nafza,  surnamed  al-Jayyani,  because  his  fore- 
bears lived  in  the  Spanish  town  of  Jaen,  was  born  in 
Grenada  in  November  1256;  completed  his  studies  at 
Malaga,  Velez,  and  Almeria  ;  left  Spain  in  1280,  in  con- 
sequence of  a  difference  with  his  master,  Ibn  al-Zubair ; 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAd  341 

travelled  through  Northern  Africa  and  Egypt ;  made  the 
pilgrimage,  and  returned  to  Egypt  by  Syria.  He  was  a 
polyglot — knew  Persian,  Turkish,  and  Ethiopian,  and 
wrote  books  in  those  languages.  In  1298  he  succeeded 
his  master,  Ibn  al-Nahhas,  as  teacher  of  grammar,  and 
then  of  the  traditions,  and  gained  the  friendship  of  the 
Amir  Saif  al-din  Arghiin,  who  became  Governor  of 
Egypt  in  1312.  He  was  very  frugal,  and  lived  on  a  few 
copper  coins.  He  never  bought  books,  not  feeling 
any  need  of  them,  but  borrowed  those  he  desired  to  read 
from  the  public  libraries.  He  was  originally  a  Zahirite, 
but  came  over  completely  to  the  Shilfi'ite  view,  and  never 
relinquished  it  again.  He  died  in  July  1345,  five  years 
after  his  daughter  Nudhar,  herself  a  literary  character,  on 
whom  he  wrote  a  tract,  which  is  a  kind  of  autobiography. 
His  Idrdk,  which  describes  the  Turkish  tongue  as  it  was 
spoken  in  Cairo  by  the  colonists  from  Central  Asia  in 
the  fourteenth  century,  has  been  published  at  Constanti- 
nople. He  also  wrote  the  kind  of  popular  poetry  known 
as  muwashshahdt. 

Shams  al-din  Abu  'Abdallah  Muhammad  al-Dha- 
HAbI  (1274-1348),  a  man  of  Turkoman  blood,  was  born 
at  Damascus,  began  his  studies  when  he  was  eighteen 
years  of  age,  and  undertook  journeys  which  brought  him 
the  acquaintance  of  more  than  twelve  hundred  learned 
men.  He  was  a  teacher  of  the  traditions  at  Damascus, 
but  was  unable  to  enter  the  Ashrafiyya  in  that  capacity, 
because  the  founder  of  that  school  had  laid  down  condi- 
tions, as  to  the  religious  beliefs  of  those  employed  to 
teach  in  it,  which  he  could  not  fulfil.  Of  the  many 
works  he  left  behind  him,  the  best  known  are  his  Mush- 
tabih,  published  by  P.  de  Jong  at  Leyden,  and  a  Medicine 
of  the  Prophet,  translated  into  French  by  Perron.     His 


342  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Tabaqdt  al-Huffdz  (Classes  of  those  who  know  the 
Traditions  by  Heart),  abridged  and  continued  by  Suy- 
utl,  has  been  pubhshed  by  Wiistenfeld  under  the  title 
of  Liber  Classium.  His  great  history  of  Islamism  (Tdrtkh 
al-isldni)  is  scattered  in  odd  volumes  through  various 
European  libraries. 

Zain  al-din  Abu  Hafs'Umar  IBN  al-Ward!  was  born 
in  1290,  at  Ma'arrat  al-Nu'man,  in  Upper  Syria.  He 
studied  law  at  Hamat,  and  was  appointed  assistant  to 
the  qddt  Ibn  al-Naqib  at  Aleppo.  In  consequence  of  a 
dream,  he  resigned  this  post,  and  devoted  himself  entirely 
to  literary  composition.  He  died  of  the  plague,  in  the 
town  of  Aleppo,  in  March  1349.  His  history  is  an 
abridgment  of  that  of  Abu'1-Fida,  with  a  continuation 
carried  down  to  the  year  of  his  own  death.  Others  of 
his  works  are  devoted  to  grammar,  jurisprudence,  mysti- 
cism, and  even  to  pure  literature,  as,  for  example,  the 
Lecture  on  the  plague,  preserved  by  Suyflti  in  the  book 
he  wrote  on  that  hideous  epidemic.  The  authorship  of 
the  Kharidat  al-AJdib,  a  treatise  on  geography  and 
natural  history,  containing  all  sorts  of  wondrous  and 
fantastic  tales,  has  been  ascribed,  probably  incorrectly, 
to  him.  This  work,  indeed,  is  no  more  than  an  almost 
literal  transcription  of  the  Jdmi'  al-funitn  (Encyclo- 
paedia) composed  by  Najm  al-din  Ahmad  al-Harrani, 
a  learned  Hanbalite,  who  was  in  Egypt  in  1332.  It  is  a 
cui-ious  book,  and  has  been  printed  at  Cairo,  and  studied 
by  De  Guignes,  Fraehn,  Hylander,  Tornberg,  Freund, 
Wiistenfeld,  and  Mehren. 

'ApuD  AL-d1n  AL-1j1  of  Shiraz,  a  Shafi'ite  lawyer, 
qddt,  and  Sufi,  who  died  in  1355,  wrote  a  history  of  the 
patriarchs,  of  Mahomet,  and  some  of  his  companions. 
Under  the  title  of  Mawdqif  {T\i&  Stations)  he  has  given 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  343 

us  a  treatise  on  metaphysics  and  Moslem  theology,  of 
which  the  fifth  and  sixth  parts,  together  with  the  ap- 
pendix, dealing  with  the  Moslem  sects  and  Jurjani's 
commentary,  have  been  published  by  Soerensen. 

Ibn  Shakir  al-Kutubi  (the  Bookseller),  who  was 
of  Aleppan  origin,  and  died  in  1363,  studied  in  his 
native  city  and  at  Damascus.  He  entered  the  book 
trade  as  a  means  of  making  a  livelihood,  and  grew  rich 
in  it.  Under  the  name  of  '  Uyun  al-tawdrikh,  he  drew 
up  a  chronicle  of  the  Caliphs  and  learned  men,  with 
special  particulars  as  to  Damascus,  and  he  also  prepared 
a  continuation  or  supplement  to  Ibn  Khallikan's  great 
biographical  dictionary,  Fawdt  al-  Wafaydt,  which  has 
been  printed  at  Bulaq. 

KHALiL  IBN  AiBAK  AL-SAFADt,  who  was  born  at  Safad,' 
in  Palestine,  was  a  Government  secretary  at  Damascus, 
Cairo,  and  Aleppo,  and  Director  of  the  Treasury  at 
Damascus.  He  died  in  1363.  His  chief  work  is  his 
Wdfi  bil-Wafaydt,  a  complete  dictionary  of  biography, 
the  twenty-six  volumes  of  which  are  scattered  among 
various  European  libraries.  Another  of  his  books  is 
specially  devoted  to  the  famous  men  and  women  of  the 
eighth  century  of  the  Hegira — his  own  contemporaries, 
in  fact  {A'ydn  al-asr).  A  very  curious  anthology  is  that 
dedicated  by  him  to  poems  in  which  mention  is  made  of 
tears,  Ladhdhat  al-Sam .  His  Laitat  al-shdkt  wa-daniat 
al-bdki  is  an  immoral  story,  intermingled  with  verse. 
His  Jindn  al-jinds,  on  F'lowers  of  Rhetoric,  has  been 
printed  at  Constantinople.  Other  collections  of  verse 
and  compilations  were  produced  by  his  fertile  pen. 

SiDl  KhalIl  al-Jundi,  a  Malikite  lawyer,  studied  at 
Cairo,  where  he  was  both  professor  and  mufti,  and  where 
he  died  in  November  1365.     He  was  the  author  of  the 


344  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Mukhtasar,  a  summary  of  Malikite  jurisprudence  used  in 
the  native  courts  in  Algeria,  which  has  been  frequently 
reprinted  by  the  Societe  Asiatique  in  Paris,  translated 
into  French  by  Dr.  Perron  in  his  Exploration  scientifique 
de  I'Algerie,  and  concordance  tables  of  which  have  been 
drawn  up  by  E.  Fagnan.  This  concise  and  practical 
manual  has  found  many  commentators.  Sidi  Khalil  also 
wrote  a  biography  of  Sheikh  'Abdallah  al-Manufi,  his  own 
teacher,  and  some  other  works,  which,  like  this  last,  are 
still  in  manuscript. 

Ismail  ibn  'Umar  IBN  KathIr  (1302-1372),  a  tradi- 
tionist  and  historian,  succeeded  al-Dhahabi  in  his 
professorial  chair  at  Damascus,  and  taught  for  some 
time  in  the  Ashrafiyya,  but  was  dismissed  from  these 
latter  functions.  His  Biddya  wal-Nihdya  (The  Begin- 
ning and  the  End)  is  a  great  universal  history,  begin- 
ning with  the  Creation  and  ending  in  1337  ;  the  most 
perfect  copy  now  in  existence  is  at  Vienna.  The  part 
relating  to  the  government  of  the  Ethiopians  in  Yemen 
has  been  published  by  J.-F.-L.  George  at  Berlin.  Ibn 
Kathir  also  dealt  with  the  Imam  Shafi'i,  and  the  tradi- 
tionists  of  his  school. 

Shihab  al-din  Abu'l- Abbas  Ahmad  IBN  ABt  Hajala, 
a  philologist  and  poet,  and  a  Hanbalite,  belonging  to 
Tilimsan,  where  he  was  born  in  1325,  travelled,  went  to 
Mecca  to  accomplish  the  rites  of  the  pilgrimage,  re- 
turned by  Damascus  and  Syria,  and  settled  in  Cairo, 
where  he  was  appointed  sheikh  of  a  dervish  convent.  He 
died  at  Cairo,  of  the  plague,  in  1375.  His  grandfather 
had  been  given  the  surname  of  Abii.  Hajala,  or  "the 
Man  with  the  Partridge,"  because  a  partridge  had  laid 
its  egg  one  day  in  his  cloak.  He  wrote  the  Sukkarddtt 
(The  Sugar-bowl),  an  historical  and  geographical  work 


AFTER   THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  345 

on'  Egypt,  which  includes  a  biography  of  Sultan  Malik- 
Nasir,  to  whom  the  book  is  dedicated.  It  is  an  anthology, 
on  the  subject  of  the  importance  of  the  number  seven  in 
everything  concerning  the  land  of  Egypt.  This  idea  of 
connecting  everything  with  the  fateful  number  seven 
deprives  the  work  of  any  historical  value.  It  has  been 
printed  at  Bulaq.  Ibn  Abi  Hajala's  Dtwdn  al-Sabdba 
deals  with  the  history  of  celebrated  lovers ;  it  has  been 
published  at  Cairo,  on  the  margins  of  Da'iid  al-Antaki's 
Tazytn  al-asTLciq, 

LiSAN  AL-DiN  Abii  "Abdallah  Muhammad  Ibn  al- 
KhatIb  came  of  a  Syrian  family  which  had  emigrated 
to  Spain.  He  was  born  at  Grenada  in  November  13 13. 
His  father's  property,  which  had  been  confiscated,  was 
restored  to  him,  and  he  became  the  friend  of  the  seventh 
prince  of  the  Beni'l-Ahmar  dynasty  of  Grenada,  Abu'l- 
Hajjaj  Yusuf,  who  confided  the  management  of  his 
kingdom  to  his  hands.  He  was  continued  in  this  post 
by  the  monarch's  successor,  Muhammad  V.,  and  attended 
him  when  he  was  forced  to  flee  to  Africa  from  his 
brother  Isma'il  in  1359.  Muhammad  V.  returned  from 
Africa  three  years  later,  retook  Grenada,  and  reappointed 
Ibn  al-Khatib  to  his  former  post.  Nevertheless,  within 
a  very  short  time,  he  was  accused  of  treason  by  his 
enemies,  cast  into  prison,  and  executed  (1374).  His 
history  of  the  Caliphs  of  Spain,  the  East,  and  Africa, 
furnished  Casiri  with  a  long  excerpt  relating  to  the 
Aghlabite  Sultans,  and  the  Fatimid  Caliphs  who  reigned 
in  Sicily  and  Africa,  for  his  Hispano-Arab  Library.  This 
has  been  reprinted  in  Kosario  Gregorio's  collection  of 
historical  documents  relating  to  Sicily.  He  studied  the 
history   of  Grenada,  and  left   annals   of   its   sovereigns 

down  to  the  year    1363.     He  wrote  biographies  of  the 

23 


346  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

famous  men  belonging  to  that  capital,  including  his  own. 
From  these  Casiri  drew  the  matter  for  two  hundred  and 
eighty  notices.  An  account  of  his  travels  contains  de- 
scriptions of  the  Spanish  towns,  the  learned  men  to  be 
found  in  them,  and  the  most  frequented  libraries. 

Badr  al-din  Abu  Muhammad  al-Hasan  IBN  Habib,  a 
learned  Shafi'ite,  was  born  at  Damascus  in  1310.  So 
well  did  he  profit  by  the  instruction  bestowed  upon  him, 
that  at  the  age  of  thirteen,  having  been  present  at  prayers 
in  the  Great  Mosque,  he  wrote  a  poem  on  the  incident. 
He  went  to  Aleppo  with  his  father,  who  had  been  ap- 
pointed professor  of  the  hadith  in  that  town,  and  for 
some  time  performed  the  duties  of  chief  of  the  municipal 
police.  The  Mecca  pilgrimage  afforded  him  an  oppor- 
tunity of  visiting  Cairo,  Alexandria,  Jerusalem,  and 
Hebron.  In  the  following  year  he  made  a  second  pil- 
grimage to  Mecca  (1338).  He  was  then  given  a  post 
in  the  public  service  at  Aleppo,  and  accompanied  the 
Amir  Sharaf  al-din  on  his  tax-collecting  rounds,  thus 
making  acquaintance  with  the  chief  Syrian  towns. 
From  1344  onwards,  he  devoted  himself  to  editorial 
work.  In  1354  he  made  a  pleasure  trip  to  Tripoli,  and 
there  made  the  acquaintance  of  the  governor,  Saif 
al-din  Manjak.  Being  well  received,  he  spent  two 
years  in  that  town.  When  the  governor  was  appointed 
in  the  same  capacity  at  Damascus,  he  joined  him  there, 
remained  three  years,  and  was  honourably  welcomed  by 
the  learned  men  of  the  Syrian  capital.  He  spent  the 
closing  years  of  his  life  at  Aleppo,  and  died  tl:ere  in 
August  1377.  To  him  we  owe  a  history  of  the  Mameluke 
Suhans  of  Egypt,  entitled  Durrat  al-Asldk  (The  Pearl  of 
the  Threads), which  covers  the  period  between  1250  and 
1375,  with  references  to  contemporary  events  in  neigh- 


AFTER   THE    FALL   OF   BAGDAD  347 

bouring  countries,  and  very  valuable  obituary  notices 
of  the  great  dignitaries  and  learned  men  of  that  epoch. 
But,  as  the  whole  of  the  text  is  in  rhymed  prose,  it  may 
be  objected  that  historical  accuracy  has  been  sacrificed 
to  rhyme.  His  son,  Zain  al-din  Tahir,  carried  his  father's 
annals  down  to  the  year  1398.  This  work  proved  useful 
to  Maqrizi,  who  drew  information  for  his  history  of  the 
Mameluke  Sultans  from  it.  He  also  wrote  a  history  of 
the  Sultan  Qilawun  and  his  sons.  His  Nastni  al-Sabd 
(Breath  of  the  Breeze),  a  representation  of  scenes  from 
nature  and  from  human  life,  is  a  mixture  of  rhymed 
prose  and  verse. 

Muhammad  ibn  'Abdal-Rahim  IBN  AL-FURAT  be- 
longed to  an  important  Cairene  family.  He  made  a 
special  study  of  the  traditions  and  of  jurisprudence. 
Yet  it  is  as  regards  history  that  he  is  most  interesting 
to  us,  for  he  is  one  of  the  sources  of  the  history  of  the 
Crusades.  He  was  born  in  1334,  and  died  on  2nd  April 
1405.  His  History  of  Dynasties  and  Kings  is  a  Moslem 
chronology,  down  to  the  year  1396,  only  a  certain  por- 
tion of  which  has  been  clearly  set  forth  by  the  author. 
Nine  volumes  of  it  are  in  the  Vienna  Library,  and  are 
believed  to  be  the  autograph  manuscript.  They  run 
from  1107  to  1396,  but  with  inany  gaps.  These  volumes 
were  conveyed  to  Paris  after  the  campaign  of  1809,  and 
remained  there  till  1814.  During  this  period,  Jourdain, 
a  most  hard-working  Orientalist,  made  a  long  extract 
from  them,  which  has  been  utilised  by  Michaud  in  his 
Histoire  des  Croisades,  and  by  Reinaud  in  the  fourth 
volume  of  the  Bibliothcque  des  Croisades. 

Towards  the  same  epoch,  a  learned  qddi  of  Constan- 
tine,  Abu'l-'Abbas  Ahmad  Ibn  al-Khatib  al-Qsamtini, 
compiled  a  series  of  very  short  biographical  notices  of 


348  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

five  hundred  famous  personages,  arranged  in  chrono- 
logical order,  from  Mahomet's  time  down  to  the  year 
1404,  and  also  wrote,  in  honour  of  the  Marinid  prince 
Abu  Faris  'Abdal-'Aziz,  his  Fdrisiyya,  a  history  of  the 
Hafsid  dynasty,  extracts  from  which  have  been  pub- 
lished by  Cherbonneau  in  ihe.  Journal  Asiatique,  ■diier  a 
manuscript  actually  discovered  by  him  at  Constantine. 

Arabia  had  then  produced  a  mystic  writer,  "Afif  al-din 
'Abdallah  al-Yafi'i,  who  was  born  in  Yemen  in  1298, 
studied  at  Aden,  and,  after  the  year  1318,  settled  partly 
at  Mecca  and  partly  at  Medina.  He  never  again  left 
these  two  towns,  except  to  make  a  journe)'  to  Jerusalem, 
Damascus,  and  Cairo,  in  1324,  and  a  short  excursion  into 
the  Yemen  in  1337.  He  died  at  Mecca  in  1367.  His 
work  on  the  mystical  interpretation  of  the  Koran,  Miikh- 
tasar  al-durr  al-nazim,  extracted  from  a  work  by  Ibn 
al-Khashshab,  an  author  who  died  about  1252,  has 
been  printed  at  Cairo,  and  so  has  his  Raud  al-raydhin 
(Flower-plots  of  Basil),  containing  five  hundred  edifying 
stories  of  saints  and  pious  persons.  Another  of  his 
books  contains  no  less  than  two  hundred  little  tales  of 
the  same  nature,  touching  a  saintly  individual  called 
'Abd  al-Qadir  al-Gilani,  and  other  illustrious  Sufis. 

With  him  must  be  mentioned  Abu  Madyan  Shuaib 
al-Huraifish,  who  was  born  in  Egypt,  and  died  at  Mecca 
in  1308.  His  Raud  al-fd iq  (The  Excellent  Flower-plot),  a 
collection  of  moral  and  pious  anecdotes,  and  of  traditions 
relating  to  the  Last  Judgment,  has  also  been  reprinted  at 
Cairo  several  times  over.  The  Nuzhat  al-Majdlis  (Recrea- 
tions of  the  Gatherings),  by  'Abdal-Rahman  al-Sa£furi, 
written  at  Mecca  in  1479,  is  another  of  the  successful 
publications  of  the  Egyptian  printing  presses. 

Yemen  was   the   home  of   Sharaf  al-din  Ismail    Ibn 


AFTER   THE    FALL   OF   BAGDAd  349 

al-Muqri,  the  author  of  a  strange  work.  He  was  born  in 
1354,  at  Abyat-Husain,  in  the  district  of  Surdad,  and 
taught  at  Ta'izz  and  at  Zabid.  He  acted  for  some  time 
as  judge  in  the  latter  town,  and  died  there  in  1433.  His 
principal  work,  the  '' Unwdn  al-Sharaf  al-wdft,  is  divided 
into  three  broad  columns,  separated  from  each  other  by 
four  narrow  ones.  The  centre  columns  contain  a  treatise 
on  law,  and  the  narrow  ones  between,  which  must  be  read 
separately,  are  treatises  on  history  and  grammar,  while 
the  two  columns  on  the  outer  edges,  composed  of  single 
letters  which  form  the  beginnings  and  endings  of  the 
columns  next  them,  present,  when  read  from  the  top 
downwards,  an  intelligible  meaning  of  their  own.  This 
extraordinary  arrangement,  which  makes  the  work  a 
masterpiece  in  the  overcoming  of  a  difficulty,  has  been 
imitated  by  Suyuti  in  his  Nafhat  al-Miskiyya. 

We  now  come  to  the  great  historian  and  philosopher 
Abu  Zaid  'Abdal-Rahman  IBN  KhaldOn  (1332-1406). 
He  was  descended  from  the  tribe  of  Kinda  in  the 
Hadramaut  ;  his  ancestor,  Khalid,  who  came  with  an 
army  into  Spain,  in  the  third  century  of  the  Hegira, 
had  given  his  name  to  the  family  of  the  Benu- 
Khaldun,  altering  the  termination  of  his  appellation 
in  a  manner  frequently  adopted  in  Yemen.  This 
family  first  resided  at  Carmona,  near  Seville,  then  at 
Seville,  and  finally  settled  at  Tunis,  where  Ibn  Khaldun 
was  born  on  27th  May  1332.  Having  finished  his 
education,  he  entered  the  service  of  the  Hafsid 
Sultan,  Abu  Ishaq  Ibrahim,  as  a  caligraphist.  He 
was  in  attendance  on  this  prince  in  1352,  when  he 
was  defeated  in  battle,  and  obliged  to  take  refuge  at 
Ceuta,  and  when  his  protector  recovered  his  power, 
and  set  up  his  capital  at  Fez,  the  young  caligraphist  was 


3  50  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

summoned  and  appointed  his  master's  secretary.  The 
favour  shown  him  stirred  up  envy  ;  his  intimacy  with 
the  Amir  of  Bijaya,  who  was  interned  at  P'ez,  fur- 
nished a  pretext  for  accusing  him  of  treason,  and  he 
was  cast  into  prison,  and  remained  there  till  the  death 
of  the  Sultan  Abu  Tnan,  in  1358.  The  regent  of  the 
kingdom,  Al-Hasan  ibn  'Umar,  who  governed  in  the 
name  of  the  youthful  Abu  Salim,  a  boy  of  five,  set 
him  free,  and  gave  him  back  his  post.  From  that  time 
his  position  improved.  When  Sultun  Abu  'Abdallah 
Ibn  al-Ahmar  reconquered  the  kingdom  of  Grenada 
from  his  brother  Isma'il,  Ibn  Khaldun  was  charged  by 
him  to  conclude  peace  with  Don  Pedro,  the  tyrant  of 
Castile.  He  made  up  his  mind  to  remain  in  Spain,  and 
sent  for  his  family,  but  finding  himself  surrounded  by 
jealousy,  he  took  advantage,  in  1364,  of  the  fact  that 
Abu  Abdallah  Muhammad,  his  fellow-prisoner  at  Fez, 
had  recovered  possession  of  Bijaya,  to  proceed  to  that 
town,  and  there  became  chamberlain  to  the  prince,  and 
regent  of  the  State. 

This  prosperity  was  not  of  long  duration.  In  the 
following  year,  his  protector  lost  his  life  in  an  expedition 
against  Abu'l -'Abbas,  Prince  of  Constantine,  and  Ibn 
Khaldiin,  instead  of  holding  out  and  defending  the 
town  of  Bijaya,  as  its  inhabitants  would  have  had  him 
do,  delivered  it  over  to  the  victor.  Then,  feeling 
that  the  new  sovereign  treated  him  with  suspicion,  he 
departed  by  stealth.  In  spite  of  Ibn  Khaldun's  asser- 
tion that  he  preferred  study  to  public  functions,  he  cer- 
tainly had  a  ruling  passion  for  politics,  to  which  his 
knowledge  and  acute  judgment  naturally  predisposed 
him.  Thus  he  attached  himself  to  the  service  of 'Abd 
al-'Aziz,  who    had  driven    Abu    Hammu  out    of    Tilim- 


AFTER  THE   FALL  OF   BAGDAD  351 

s4n,  and  after  his  death,-  to  that  of  'Abdal-Rahman  and 
Abu'l- 'Abbas,  who  had  divided  the  power  between 
them.  He  fell  under  suspicion  of  favouring  the  first  of 
these  duumvirs,  and  was  imprisoned  by  the  second,  in 
1374,  but  after  a  few  days  he  was  granted  his  freedom, 
and  permission  to  depart  to  Spain.  He  was  at  first  well 
received  at  Grenada  by  Ibn  al-Ahmar,  but  he  soon  fell 
into  disgrace,  and  returned  to  Tilimsan  just  in  time  to 
see  Abu  Hammu  restored  to  the  throne. 

Abu  Hammu  invited  him  to  serve  him,  as  he  had 
served  him  previously,  by-undertaking  a  mission  to  the 
Bedouins,  to  bring  them  over  to  his  side.  On  this  mission 
Ibn  Khaldun  duly  started,  but  he  tarried  four  years 
in  Qal'at  Ibn  Salama,  the  castle  of  a  petty  prince, 
writing  his  Prolegomena  and  his  great  historical  work. 
As  he  lacked  the  books  necessary  for  their  completion, 
he  proceeded  to  Tunis,  in  1378  ;  was  received  with  great 
honour  by  the  Sultan,  Abu'l-'Abbas,  and  there  wrote 
his  history  of  the  Berbers.  His  former  fellow-disciple, 
Ibn  'Arafa,  who  by  this  time  had  become  a  mufti,  repre- 
sented him  to  be  a  dangerous  character,  and  the  Sultan 
would  have  taken  him  away  with  him,  on  an  expedition 
which  he  was  then  preparing.  But  Ibn  Khaldun 
begged  to  be  allowed  to  go  on  pilgrimage  to  Mecca,  and 
with  this  object,  departed  by  sea,  in  1382.  When  he 
passed  through  Cairo,  whither  his  fame  had  already 
spread,  students  came  to  his  house  in  crowds,  beseeching 
him  to  stay  in  Egypt,  and  give  them  lessons.  To  this 
he  agreed,  as  no  caravan  was  going  to  Mecca  that  year. 
Against  his  will,  he  was  appointed  Malikite  qddt  by 
Sultan  Barquq.  His  impartiality,  and  the  severity  with 
which  he  put  down  abuses,  brought  him  many  enemies. 
Meanwhile,  his  family  had  at  last  obtained  permission  to 


352  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

join  him,  but  all  perished  in  a  shipwreck.  Touched  by 
tbis  misfortune,  the  Sultan  relieved  him  of  his  duties 
as  qddi,  and  he  sought  consolation  in  teaching  and  in 
literary  labours.  Three  years  later,  he  performed  his 
interrupted  pilgrimage. 

On  his  return,  he  wrote  the  history  of  his  own  life, 
but  Sultan  Barquq  had  him  carried  off  from  a  property 
in  the  Fayyum,  which  he  himself  had  bestowed  upon 
him,  and  obliged  him  once  more  to  accept  the  post 
of  qddt,  in  which  he  remained  till  1400,  when,  under 
Barquq's  successor,  Malik  Nasir  Faraj,  he  was  accused 
and  imprisoned  on  account  of  his  excessive  severity. 
Notwithstanding  this,  he  obtained  a  post  as  professor. 
He  attended  the  Sultan  on  his  campaign  against 
Tamerlane  in  Syria,  but  when  the  faithless  behaviour 
of  the  Egyptian  officers  forced  his  master  to  beat  a 
precipitate  retreat,  the  historian  left  Damascus  by 
stealth,  and  went  over  to  the  Tartar  conqueror,  who 
received  him  with  great  honour,  and  allowed  him  to 
return  to  Cairo  and  go  back  to  his  post  as  qddi, 
which  he  lost  and  recovered  again  more  than  once. 
He  was  still  holding  it  when  he  died,  on  20th  March 
1406. 

Ibn  Khaldun  is  one  of  the  greatest  historians  of 
Arabic  literature,  because  he  formulated,  in  his  Pro- 
legomena, a  whole  philosophy  of  Moslem  history  as 
conceived  by  a  statesman  and  magistrate  of  the  close 
of  the  fourteenth  century.  He  also  lays  down  sound 
principles  for  the  writing  of  history.  It  is  a  pity,  as 
Wiistenfeld  has  pointed  out,  that  he  did  not  follow 
them  himself,  for  his  annals  are  a  compilation,  too 
concise,  occasionally,  to  be  comprehensible,  and  the 
sources    of    his   information    are    not    always    correctly 


AFTER   THE    FALL   OF   BAGDAd  353 

given.  His  style  is  not  classic,  yet  it  is  quoted  as  a 
model  because  of  the  clear  fashion  in  which  he  has 
dealt  with  the  philosophy  of  history.  His  work  is 
called  the  Book  of  Examples  (Kitab  al- Ibar) ;  it  is  divided 
into  three  parts  —  the  Prolegomena,  translated  into 
French  in  the  Notices  et  Extraits,  by  MacGuckin  de 
Slane,  after  Etienne  Quatreraere  had  published  the 
text  in  the  same  periodical ;  the  main  history  of  the 
Arabs  and  neighbouring  peoples ;  and  the  history  of 
the  Berbers  and  of  the  Moslem  dynasties  of  Northern 
Africa,  published  and  translated  into  French,  at  Algiers, 
by  De  Slane.  The  history  of  the  Aghlabites  and  of  the 
Sicilian  Arabs,  which  is  included  in  this  work,  had  already 
been  published  and  translated  by  Noel  des  Vergers. 

He  begins  his  Prolegomena  by  laying  down  rules 
for  the  composition  of  critical  history,  which  ensure 
thorough  accuracy  as  to  facts.  He  opens  his  subject 
by  dividing  the  populations  into  two  great  classes — ■ 
the  nomad  tribes  and  the  sedentary  tribes ;  he  describes 
the  formation  of  the  towns,  the  influence  exerted  by 
them,  the  birth  of  all  power  springing  from  the  family 
feeling,  the  foundation  of  the  empires  and  causes  of 
their  decadence  ;  the  nature  of  the  various  forms  of 
royalty,  of  the  Caliphate  and  the  Imamate — in  other 
words,  of  the  temporal  and  spiritual  power  of  the 
Caliphs.  All  this  is  set  forth  in  uneven  fashion  by 
a  man  who  is  carried  away  by  his  own  ideas,  who 
repeats  himself  in  his  desire  to  press  them,  and  who 
is  perpetually  breaking  off  to  put  forward  historical 
proofs  of  his  theories.  His  steady  and  sagacious  in- 
telligence and  his  great  power  of  generalisation  are 
everywhere  noticeable,  and  I  know  no  book  so  worthy 
of   study   by   any   one   desirous   of    understanding  the 


3S4  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

history  of  the  Moslem  empires.  From  the  general 
point  of  view  the  author's  utter  ignorance  of  the 
liistory  of  the  free  Republics  of  Greece,  and  of  the 
formation  of  the  Roman  Empire,  largely  detracts  from 
the  value  of  his  observations,  but  this  in  no  way 
diminishes  their  weight  as  regards  the  history  of  the 
Moslem  peoples. 

The  little  town  of  Beyrout,  which  owes  its  name 
to  the  wells  by  which  it  was  supplied  (for  it  stands 
on  a  rocky  cape  at  some  distance  from  any  river,  and 
never  had  any  drinking  water  carried  into  it  till  about 
thirty  years  ago),  received  the  honour  of  being  com- 
memorated in  a  special  history  of  its  own,  written  by 
a  member  of  the  Buhtur  family,  who  ruled  the  moun- 
tainous country  called  al-Gharb  in  the  Lebanon,  with 
the  title  of  Emir.  His  name  was  Salih  ibn  Yahya, 
and  he  is  known  to  have  died  after  the  year  1436. 
His  book,  which  deals  with  the  history  of  his  own 
family  and  of  the  town  of  Beyrout  under  Egyptian 
and  Prankish  rule,  and  which  exists  in  manuscript 
in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  has  been  published  by 
L.  Chdikho  in  the  Mashriq,  a  Beyrout  journal. 

A  qddi  of  the  little  town  of  'Aintab,  north  of  Aleppo, 
was  the  father  of  the  historian  AI-Aini  (Badr  al-din 
Mahmud),  abbreviated  to  'Ain-TabJ.  He  was  born 
in  July  1360,  and  began  to  study  law  under  his 
father,  with  so  much  success  that  he  was  able  to 
take  his  parent's  place  on  the  bench,  even  before  he 
had  completed  his  education.  To  perfect  this  he 
went  to  Aleppo,  to  which  locality  his  family  originally 
belonged,  and,  after  his  father's  death,  visited  several 
Syrian  towns,  made  the  pilgrimage,  returned  from  it, 
in   1386,  by  Damascus  and  Jerusalem,  and  there  made 


AFTER   THE    FALL   OF   BAGDAD  355 

the  acquaintance  of  the  Sufi  'Ala  al-din  Ahmad  al- 
Sirafi,  who  took  him  to  Cairo,  and  obtained  him  a 
position  in  the  newly-founded  Barquqiyya  convent. 
The  influence  of  one  of  his  protectors,  the  Emir 
Hakam,  procured  him,  in  1399,  the  post  of  Commissary 
of  the  municipal  police  in  Cairo,  from  which  Maqrizi 
had  just  been  dismissed.  The  uncertainty  attending 
all  such  municipal  employments  led  to  his  losing 
and  recovering  this  one  several  times  over.  He  fell 
into  disgrace  and  was  put  to  the  torture,  under  Sultan 
Malik  Mu'ayyad  Shaikh,  in  1412.  He  was  recalled  to 
favour,  and  appointed  professor  of  a  school  founded 
by  the  same  sovereign,  and  even  sent  as  his  ambassador 
to  the  Roman  Emperor  of  the  East  at  Constantinople. 
He  rose  to  the  highest  favour  under  the  Sultan's  sue- 
cessors,  Malik  Zahir  Tatar  and  Malik  Ashraf  Barsbai — 
the  latter  especially  delighted  in  his  company,  because 
he  could  talk  over  religious  questions  with  him  in  the 
Turkish  tongue.  The  accession  of  Malik  'Aziz  Yusuf 
restored  him  to  his  professorial  chair  (1438),  and  he 
then  took  advantage  of  a  wave  of  favour  to  unite  in 
his  own  person  the  posts  of  Grand  Qadi  of  the  Hana- 
fites,  head  of  the  police,  and  curator  of  the  pious 
foundations,  which  had  never  previously  been  held 
by  the  same  individual.  He  lost  the  last  of  these 
three  positions  through  some  intrigue,  and  then  turned 
his  back  on  public  life.  He  died  on  29th  December 
1451.  His  "^ Iqd  al-jumdn  (Necklace  of  Pearls)  is  a 
universal  history  from  the  Creation  down  to  the  year 
1446.  His  Jauhara  is  a  versified  biography  of  Sultan 
Malik  Mu'ayyad.  His  many  commentaries  on  works 
of  theology  and  jurisprudence  have  earned  him  a 
celebrity  which  has  no  special  interest  for  us. 


3  56  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Abu'l-Tayyib  Ahmad  al-Hijazi  (1388-1470)  studied  the 
traditions  under  the  direction  of  Ibn  Hajar  al-Asqa- 
lani.  His  over-indulgence  in  the  use  of  the  marsh-nut 
or  anacardium  ruined  his  health,  and  obliged  him  to 
give  up  his  legal  studies  and  confine  himself  to  literature. 
In  addition  to  his  own  poems,  which  may  be  seen  in 
manuscript  at  the  Escurial,  he  made  a  collection  of 
poetry  in  which  appear  such  popular  forms  as  muivash- 
shah  and  zajal,  and  which  is  entitled  Raud  al-dddb 
(Flower-beds  of  Literature) ;  this  work  has  been  printed 
at  Bombay.  The  Bibliotheque  Nationale  and  the 
British  Museum  both  possess  his  Nail  al-rdid,  a  tract 
giving  the  height  of  the  annual  rise  of  the  Nile  from 
the  Hegira  onwards. 

Abu'l-Khair  Ibn  AL-jAZARt  (1350-1429)  was  born  at 
Damascus.  On  his  way  back  from  the  Mecca  pilgrim- 
age, he  went  to  Cairo.  Returning  to  his  native  town,  he 
became  qddi  of  Damascus  ;  saw  his  Egyptian  properties 
confiscated  in  1395  ;  and  then  moved  into  Asia  Minor, 
to  the  court  of  the  Ottoman  Sultan,  Bayezid  I.  After  the 
battle  of  Ancyra,  Tamerlane  sent  him  as  a.  prisoner  to 
Samarqand.  When  the  Tartar  conqueror  died,  he  re- 
turned to  Persia  and  settled  at  Shiraz,  where  he  was 
appointed  qddi,  and  where  he  died,  having  spent  the 
closing  years  of  his  life  in  travels  which  took  him  from 
Bassora  to  Mecca  and  Medina.  His  works,  notably  a 
didactic  poem  which  has  been  lithographed  at  Cairo, 
and  on  which  many  commentaries  have  been  written, 
deal  with  the  art  of  reading  the  Koran.  His  Dhdt  al- 
shifd  is  a  poem  which  includes  a  short  survey  of  the 
history  of  the  Prophet  and  the  four  orthodox  Caliphs, 
followed  by  a  very  succinct  summary  of  Moslem  history, 
down  to  the  time  of  Bayezid  I.     It  was  written  at  Shiraz 


AFTER   THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAd  357 

in  1396,  at  the  request  of  Sultan  Muhammad,  who  then 
ruled  that  city. 

A  SufJ  named  Jamil  al  -  din  'Abdal  -  Razzaq  of 
Qashan,  who  died  in  1330,  left  a  dictionary  of  technical 
terms  {istlldhdf),  used  by  the  mystics,  which  has  been 
pubHshed  by  Sprenger  at  Calcutta  (1845).  His  LatSHf 
al-ildni,  which  deals  with  a  similar  subject,  has  been 
utilised  by  Tholuck  in  his  study  of  the  speculative  doc- 
trine of  the  Trinity  in  the  modern  East ;  his  treatise 
on  Predestination  and  Free-will  has  been  translated  by 
Stanislas  Guyard. 

A  descendant  of  the  famous  ascetic  'Abdal-Qadir  al- 
Gilanf,  Qutb  al-dhi  'Abd  al-Karim,  who  was  born  in 
1365,  and  was  still  alive  in  1423,  wrote  a  book  called 
Insdn  a!-Kdmil  (The  Perfect  Man),  on  human  destiny, 
which  has  been  printed  at  Cairo,  and  nineteen  other 
works  on  various  points  in  mysticism. 

Even  the  Persian  poet  Jami  (1414-1492)  wrote  thirteen 
Arabic  works  on  theological  questions. 

Sarim  al-din  Ibrahim  IBN  DuQMAQ,  a  zealous  disciple  of 
Abu  Hanifa,  who  was  born  in  Egypt  towards  1350,  was 
haled  before  the  qddt  Jalal  al-din  al-Bulqhii  in  1401,  for 
having  written  that  Abii  Hanifa  was  superior  to  Shafi'i. 
Though  he  excused  himself  by  saying  he  had  drawn  this 
judgment  from  the  works  of  other  men,  he  was  con- 
demned to  be  whipped  and  cast  into  prison.  He  died 
in  1406.  His  Nuzhat  al-dndm  (Pleasure  of  Humanity) 
is  a  history  of  Islam,  in  twelve  volumes,  arranged  in 
chronological  order,  and  dealing  principally  with  Egypt. 
A  portion  of  the  autograph  manuscript  is  at  Gotha.  He 
also  wrote,  at  the  request  of  Barquq,  his  Jauhar  al- 
thanitn,  a  history  of  Egypt,  down  to  1402 — continued,  at 
a  later  date,  and  by  an  anonymous  author,  to  the  year 


3S8  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

1500.  Other  works  of  his  have  sung  the  wonders  of 
Cairo  and  Alexandria,  and  the  praises  of  Sultan  Barquq, 
and  recalled  the  lives  of  the  great  Imam  Abii  Hanifa 
and  his  famous  disciples.  His  description  of  Egypt 
{al-Durra  al-Mudid)  has  been  published  at  Cairo  by 
C.  Vollers  (1893),  after  the  autograph  manuscript  in  the 
Khedive's  library. 

A  Hanafite  qddt  at  Aleppo,  who  was  received  by 
Tamerlane  when  he  conquered  that  town,  and  has  left 
an  account  of  his  interview,  which  has  been  utilised  by 
Ibn  'Arabshah  in  his  life  of  Timur,  Abu'l-Walid  IBN 
Shihna,  drew  up  an  abridgment  of  Abu'l-Fida's  work, 
and  carried  it  down  to  the  year  1403,  under  the  name 
of  Raudat  al-Mandzir  (¥\o\^&x-hit<l  of  the  Sights).  Gott- 
waldt  wrote  a  notice  of  this  in  \he.  Journal  Asiatique,  and 
the  text  has  been  printed  at  Biilaq,  on  the  margins  of 
Ibn  al-Athir's  works.  This  writer  was  born  in  1348,  and 
died  in  141 2.  He  left  a  mass  of  short  didactic  poems 
on  theology,  logic,  and  law.  His  son,  MUHIBB  AL-DIN 
Abu'l  -  Fadl  Ibn  Shihna,  was  likewise  a  magistrate. 
He  lived  at  Cairo  ;  was  Grand  Qadi  of  the  Hanafites, 
with  a  few  intervals,  from  1461  to  147 1  ;  and  afterwards 
Shaikh  al-Islam.  He  died  in  1485.  He  rehabilitated  the 
text  of  his  father's  book,  which  had  been  corrupted  by 
the  copyists,  and  wrote  a  commentary  on  it.  He  himself 
left  a  history  of  Aleppo,  extracts  from  which  have  been 
published  by  Alfred  von  Kremer. 

Abu'l- Abbas  ShihAb  al-din  al-Qalqashandi  drew  his 
surname  from  a  small  town  near  Cairo,  in  the  district  of 
Qalyub,  where  his  family  had  settled.  He  died  in  1418. 
He  wrote  on  the  more  or  less  legendary  history  and 
genealogy  of  the  pre-Islamic  Arab  tribes,  and  a  manual . 
on  the  art  of  graceful  composition,  intended  for  the  use  of 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  359 

candidates  for  administrative  posts  in  Egypt,  which  con- 
tains interesting  details  on  the  history,  geography,  and 
civiHsation  of  that  country,  and  of  the  Syrian  provinces. 
These  have  been  utiHsed  by  Wiistenfeld,  and  extracts 
from  the  work  have  been  pubhshed  by  H.  Sauvaire. 

Abu'I-Tayyib  TaqI  al-dIn  al-FAsi,  who  was  born  at 
Fez,  on  31st  August  1373,  went  to  Medina  with  his 
mother  in  1377,  and  returned  with  her  to  Mecca  in 
1386.  He  afterwards  travelled,  going  to  Cairo,  Damas- 
cus, Jerusalem,  Alexandria,  and  Yemen.  He  returned 
to  Mecca  in  1405,  and  was  appointed  qddt  and  pro- 
fessor of  Malikite  law.  He  lost  these  posts  in  1414, 
and  was  reappointed  to  them  within  a  month.  In  1425 
he  became  blind,  was  obliged  to  resign  his  judicial 
position,  and  went  to  Cairo,  to  consult  the  Malikite 
mufti  as  to  whether,  in  spite  of  his  infirmity,  it  would 
be  possible  for  him  to  continue  to  judge  causes.  The 
matter  was  decided  in  his  favour,  and  he  returned  to  his 
post  at  Mecca,  but  was  dismissed  from  it  in  1427,  and 
died  two  years  afterwards.  He  wrote  a  topographical 
and  historical  description  of  Mecca,  under  the  title  of 
al- Iqd  al-Thamin  (The  Precious  Necklace),  which  he 
himself  epitomised  in  two  other  works,  and  of  which  he 
also  furnished  a  second  edition  in  his  Shifd  al-GJiardin, 
from  which  Wustenfeld  has  made  extracts  which  have 
appeared  in  his  Chronicles  of  Mecca. 

Ibn  Kathir's  chronicles  were  carried  on  by  Abu'l- 
Abbas  Ahmad  AL-TabaranI,  who  was  born  at  Tiberias, 
and  died  in  1432.  His  labours  cover  the  period  between 
1220  and  1337.  There  is  a  French  manuscript  translation 
of  his  work,  which  we  owe  to  CI.  Berault,  who  succeeded 
D'Herbelot  at  the  College  de  France,  and  which  is  now 
in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale. 


36o  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

TaqI  AL-DfN  Abu'l- Abbas  Ahmad  al-Maqrizi  (1365- 
1442)  took  the  surname  by  which  he  is  known  from  a 
suburb  of  the  town  of  Baalbek  in  Syria,  in  which  his 
grandfather,  a  Hanafite  traditionist,  had  lived  before  emi- 
grating to  Damascus.  His  father,  "Ala  al-din,  settled  at 
Cairo,  where  Maqrizi  was  born  in  1365.  The  teachings 
of  the  Shafi'ites  made  a  profound  impression  upon  him, 
and  he  became  an  opponent  of  the  Hanafites.  In  1385, 
after  his  return  from  the  Mecca  pilgrimage,  he  became 
assistant  qddi,  as  his  father  had  been  before  him,  and  was 
employed  in  the  administrative  department.  In  1399  he 
was  head  of  the  police,  and  was  afterwards  preacher  in 
the  Mosque,  and  taught  the  traditions.  In  1408  he  moved 
to  Damascus,  where  he  was  employed  in  the  manage- 
ment of  the  waqfs  belonging  to  the  Qalanisiyya  and  the 
Nuriyya  Hospital,  and  taught  in  the  madr-asas,  but  he 
refused  the  post  of  gddt.  When  he  returned  to  Cairo,  he 
devoted  himself  to  literary  composition,  and  became  the 
historian  of  Moslem  Egypt.  In  143 1  he  started  with 
his  family  on  the  Mecca  pilgrimage,  and,  with  all  his 
caravan,  was  attacked  by  Bedouins  on  the  road.  He  re- 
turned to  Egypt  in  1435,  and  died  there.  His  Mawaiz 
wd l-V tibdr  (Exhortations  and  Considerations),  better 
known  under  the  name  of  Khitat  (The  Survey),  is  a 
geography  and  history  of  Egypt,  dealing  more  especially 
with  the  topography  of  Cairo,  in  which  he  has  ap- 
propriated work  done  by  his  predecessors,  without 
making  any  acknowledgment.  Extracts  from  this  book 
have  been  published  by  Langles,  Silvestre  de  Sacy,  and 
Hamaker.  Wetzer  has  published  his  history  of  the 
Copts,  which  Wustenfeld  has  translated  into  German. 
The  complete  text  has  been   published   at   Bulaq,  and 


AFTER  THE   FALL  OF  BAGDAD  361 

Monsieur  U.  Bouriant  has  given  a  French  translation  of 
it,  in  the  Memoires  de  I'Ecole  du  Caire. 

The  Gotha  Library  possesses  the  autograph  manu- 
script of  his  history  of  the  Fatimid  Caliphs.  From 
this  Kosegarten  has  taken  the  account  of  the  entry  of 
Al-Mu'izz  into  Egypt,  which  figures  in  his  Arab  Chresto- 
mathy.  He  wrote  a  history  of  the  Mameluke  Sultans 
under  the  title  of  SuMk  U-mdrifat  duwal  al-muluk  (The 
March  towards  the  Knowledge  of  the  Royal  Dynasties), 
the  substance  of  two  volumes  of  which  has  been  trans- 
lated by  Etienne  Quatremere.  He  began  an  alphabetical 
biographical  dictionary  of  all  the  princes  and  famous 
men  of  Egypt.  The  complete  work  was  to  have  con- 
sisted of  eighty  volumes.  Of  these  only  sixteen  reached 
the  state  of  fair  copies;  three  are  at  Leyden,  and  one 
at  Paris,  all  autographic.  A  collection  of  his  tracts,  also 
to  be  seen  at  Leyden  and  in  Paris,  furnished  Silvestre 
de  Sacy  with  the  substance  of  the  Traite  des  inonnaies 
Musulnianes,  the  text  of  which  had  already  been  pub- 
lished by  Tychsen  after  a  manuscript  in  the  Escurial. 
Tychsen  has  also  published  the  text  of  his  treatise  on 
the  legal  weights  and  measures.  Paul  Noskowyj  has 
published,  at  Bonn,  his  history  of  the  province  of  the 
Hadramaut,  written  at  Mecca  on  information  furnished 
by  pilgrims  who  were  natives  of  that  country.  Wiisten- 
feld  has  given  the  public  his  explanations  as  to  the  Arab 
families  which  immigrated  into  Egypt.  His  history  of 
the  Moslem  sovereigns  of  Abyssinia  was  printed  at 
Leyden  by  Rink  as  early  as  1790 ;  that  of  the  fall  of 
the  Omeyyads  and  the  accession  of  the  'Abb^sids  to 
the  Caliphate  has  been  translated  by  S.  de  Sacy  in  the 
Magasin  encyclopedique,  and  published  by  G.  Vos,  in  li 
at  Leyden. 


362  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Abu  Bakr  TAQt  AL-DfN  IBN  QAp!  Shuhba  (1377- 
1448),  a  doctor  of  Shafi'ite  law  at  Damascus,  was 
Grand  Qadi  of  his  native  town,  professor  at  various 
madrasas,  and  inspector  of  the  Nuriyya  Hospital.  He 
employed  himself  in  completing  Dhahabi's  chronicle 
by  the  addition  of  an  alphabetical  list  of  celebrated 
men,  arranged  in  decades.  He  wrote  the  biographies 
of  the  Shafi'ites  down  to  the  year  1433,  and  this  work 
has  been  utilised  by  Wiistenfeld  for  his  inquiries  into 
the  educational  institutions  of  the  Arabs. 

Shihab  al  -  din  Abu'l  -  Fadl  IBN  Hajar  AL-'AsQALiNt 
(1372-1449)  also  belonged  to  the  Shafi'ite  rite.  He  was 
born  at  Ascalon,  lost  his  father  at  an  early  age,  and 
was  brought  up  by  a  relative.  Before  he  was  eleven 
years  old,  he  went  on  pilgrimage  to  Mecca,  remained 
there  for  several  years  and  engaged  in  trade,  studying 
literature  at  the  same  time,  and  writing  very  good 
poetry.  He  then  travelled,  to  study  the  traditions, 
went  to  Cairo,  paid  one  visit  to  Palestine,  and  two  to 
Yemen,  and  in  1403  reached  Cairo,  where  he  taught 
the  hadhh  and  jurisprudence  with  great  success.  He 
trained  the  young  generation  of  law  students,  who  were 
all  able  to  call  themselves  his  pupils,  and  thus  built 
himself  up  a  high  reputation.  He  later,  and  several 
times  over,  became  Grand  Qadi,  made  the  holy  pilgrim- 
age again  in  1421,  took  a  journey  to  Aleppo  in  1432, 
and  taught  in  public  there.  He  died  at  Cairo.  His 
Inbd  al-Ghinnr  (Instruction  of  the  Ignorant)  gives  us 
the  political  and  literary  history  of  his  period  (1371- 
1446)  both  in  Egypt  and  Syria,  with  his  own  autobio- 
graphy and  details  as  to  the  traditionists  of  that  epoch, 
a  subject  near  his  heart,  for  he  devoted  a  great  number 
of  his  works — as   many  as  thirty-six,  in  Herr  Brockel- 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF  BAGDAd  363 

mann's  list — to  matters  connected  with  traditionists  and 
jurisconsults.  His  Durar  al-Kdmina  (The  Hidden  Pearls) 
contains  the  biographies  of  famous  personages  of  the 
eighth  century  of  the  Hegira.  His  diwdn  has  gained  so 
much  appreciation  among  the  moderns  that  it  has  been 
thought  worthy  to  be  reprinted. 

Abil'l-' Abbas  Ahmad  Ibn  'Arabshah  (1389-1450),  who 
was  born  at  Damascus,  was  carried  captive  with  his 
mother  and  brothers  to  Samarqand  when  the  Syrian 
city  was  captured  by  Tamerlane  in  1400.  He  found 
means,  in  that  distant  land,  of  completing  his  education, 
with  the  addition  of  a  thorough  knowledge  of  Persian 
and  Turkish.  In  1408  he  went  to  Khata  (the  Chinese 
Turkestan  of  the  present  day),  to  Khwarizm,  and  to  the 
Dasht-Qyptchaq  (the  Great  Tartary  Steppe),  and  spent 
several  years  in  the  town  of  Haji  Tarkhan  (the  present 
Astrachan)to  prosecute  his  legal  studies;  he  was  still  there 
in  the  year  141 1.  Having  travelled  in  the  Crimea,  and 
held  intercourse  with  the  learned  men  of  that  country,  he 
proceeded  to  Adrianople,  where  the  Ottoman  Sultan 
Muhammad  L,  son  of  Bayezid  L,  had  just  made  himself 
sole  master,  in  spite  of  his  brothers'  opposition.  The, 
Sultan  received  him  with  great  honour,  took  him  into, 
his  own  service,  and  refused  to  allow  him  to  go  to 
Damascus,  when  the  Emir  Jaqmaq  summoned  hirn 
thither.  He  commissioned  him  to  translate  Persian 
and  Arabic  books  into  Turkish,  made  him  his  private 
secretary,  and  employed  him  to  keep  up  Arabic,  Persian, 
and  Turkish  correspondence  with  foreign  courts.  On 
the  death  of  Muhammad  L  in  1421,  .Ibn  'Arabshah, 
desirous  of  seeing  his  native  country  once  more,  went 
to  Damascus,  where  he  was  surnamed  'Ajami  (the 
Stranger).      Here  he  gave  himself  up  entirely  to  a  life 


364  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

of  contemplation,  and  to  the  editing  of  his  works. 
This  peaceful  time  was  interrupted  by  his  departure 
for  Mecca  in  1428.  When  he  returned,  he  settled 
at  Cairo,  there  to  continue  his  existence  as  a  philo- 
sopher, and  won  the  consideration  and  friendship  of 
the  learned.  The  Emir  Jaqmaq,  who  had  become 
Sultan  in  1438,  with  the  title  of  Malik  Zahir,  already 
displeased  with  Ibn  'Arabshah  for  not  having  re- 
sponded to  his  former  invitation,  lent  a  ready  ear  to 
calumny  and  denunciation,  and  had  him  cast  into 
prison.  The  unhappy  writer  fell  sick,  and,  in  spite  of 
his  immediate  liberation,  died,  after  twelve  days'  illness, 
on  25th  August  1450. 

His  "^Aj'd'ib  al-maqdur  (Marvels  of  Predestination)  is 
the  story  of  the  life  and  conquests  of  Tamerlane,  written 
in  a  pretentious,  difficult  style,  full  of  affected  expres- 
sions, and  in  rhymed  prose.  The  text  was  published 
by  Golius  from  the  Elzevir  Press  in  1636 ;  and  by 
Manger,  with  a  Latin  translation  (1767-1772),  at  Calcutta 
and  Cairo ;  and  Pierre  Vattier  has  issued  a  French  trans- 
lation entitled  L' Histoire  du  grand  Tamerlan,  traduite  de 
I'arabe  d' Ahmed,  fils  de  Gueraspe  (1658).  His  Fdkihat 
al-Khulafd  (The  Sweetmeat  of  the  Caliphs)  is  a  political 
work,  disguised  under  the  form  of  fables  and  rhymed 
prose,  imitated  from  the  Persian  Mai'zubdn-ndnia.  It 
was  edited  by  Freytag  in  1832,  and  has  been  printed 
at  Mosul  and  at  Cairo. 

Two  of  this  author's  sons  attained  minor  celebrity 
in  the  field  of  literature.  Taj  al-din  "Abdal  -  Wahhab 
(1411-1495),  who  was  born  at  Astrachan,  accompanied 
his  father  to  Damascus,  and  returned,  at  a  later  date, 
to  Cairo,  where  he  died,  wrote  didactic  poems  on 
exegesis  and  genealogy.     Al-Hasan  wrote,  towards   the 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  365 

year  1494,  and  under  the  title  of  Iddh  al-Zulm,  a  history 
in  rhymed  prose  of' the  tyrant  Ibrahim  of  Nabulus,  who 
was  in  command  at  Damascus  in  1446,  and  whose  ex- 
actions earned  him  the  hatred  of  the  inhabitants.  This 
manuscript  is  at  Berlin. 

Abt^'l-Mahasin  Jamal  al-din  IBN  TAGHRt-BiRot  was 
the  son  of  a  Turkish  slave,  owned  by  a  merchant  of  the 
name  of  Bashbogha,  who  was  bought  by  the  Sultan 
Barquq  early  in  his  reign  (1382),  educated  by  him,  and 
whom  he  later  employed  as  Governor  of  Aleppo.  Under 
this  Sultan's  successor,  Malik-Nasir  Faraj,  he  was  atdbek 
(commander  of  the  troops)  and  Governor  of  Damascus 
three  times  over.  He  was  still  holding  this  office  when 
he  died  in  141 2.  Abii'I-Mahasin  was  born  at  Cairo  in 
141 1.  Either  on  account  of  his  rank,  or  because  a  post 
which  carried  this  dignity  with  it  was  conferred  on  him,, 
he  bore  the  title  of  Grand  Emir.  He  was  at  Mecca  in  the 
early  days  of  1459,  when  Shihab  al-din  Ahmad  al-Tatari 
was  appointed  qddi  there.  He  died  in  1469.  His  Nu- 
"Yim  al-Zdhira  (The  Shining  Stars)  is  a  history  of  Egypt 
from  the  Arab  conquest  under  'Amr  ibn  al-'As  down  to 
the  year  1453,  and  gives  the  names  of  the  prominent 
personages  who  died  in  each  successive  year.  Juynboll's 
edition  of  this  work  goes  down  to  the  year  975.  The 
author's  own  abridgment  is  carried  on  down  to  1460.  His 
Maurid  al-latdfat  {ji'L'w^mg  Fountain  of  Sweetness)  con- 
tains, after  a  short  history  of  the  Prophet,  a  list  of  some 
of  his  companions,  of  the  rulers  of  Egypt,  and  their 
ministers,  down  to  the  author's  own  days.  An  edition  of 
this  work  was  published  by  J.  E.  Carlyle  in  1792.  The 
J/a^/W^Z-^^/z  is  a  biographical  dictionary,  a  continuation 
of  Safadi's  Waft,  just  as  the  Hawddith  al-duhikr  carries 
Maqrizi's  Suliik  down  to  the  year  1456.      The  Bahr  al- 


366  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Zdkhir  was  a  great  historical  work,  of  which  one  volume 
only,  covering  the  period  between  652  and  690,  is  now 
preserved,  in  Paris. 

Abu'1-Fadl  Qasim  IBN  QuTLtrBUGHA  (1399-1474) 
was  the  author  of  a  dictionary  of  the  Hanafite  writers 
and  jurisconsults,  entitled  Taj  al-tardjim  (Crown  of 
Biographies),  which  is  important  as  a  means  of  ac- 
quaintance with  historic  names.  An  edition  of  this 
book  has  been  published  by  G.  Fliigel.  Very  little  is 
known  about  the  man  who  wrote  it.  He  was  born  and 
died  at  Cairo,  studied  Arabic,  logic,  and  Hanafite  law 
there,  completed  his  studies  at  Damascus  and  other 
towns,  and  was  a  prolific  writer. 

SOYOtJTl  (1445-1505) 

SuyCttI,  the  Egyptian  (Jalil  al-din  Abia'1-Fadl  'Abdal- 
Rahman),  was  a  man  whose  encyclopaedic  works 
were  destined  to  incarnate  the  Moslem  learning  of  the 
fifteenth  century.  He  belonged  to  a  Persian  family, 
which  had  been  settled  for  three  hundred  years  at  Suyut 
or  Usyut,  in  Upper  Egypt,  but  he  was  born  at  Cairo. 
His  ancestors  had  held  public  employments — one  had 
been  a  judge,  another  head  of  the  municipal  police,  a 
third  had  become  a  rich  merchant.  His  father  had 
been  qddi  at  Cairo,  and  afterwards  retired  from  the 
world,  so  as  to  devote  his  time  to  reading  the  Sacred 
Book.  When  he  died,  in  March  1451,  young  'Abdal- 
RahmSn  was  only  five  years  and  a  half  old.  He  was 
brought  up  by  a  man  of  ascetic  habits,  who  made  him 
learn  the  Koran  by  heart  before  he  was  eight  years  old. 
After  visits  to  the  Fayyum  and  Damietta,  he  went 
on  pilgrimage   to    Mecca    in    December    1464.     On   his 


AFTER   THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  367 

return  he  taught  the  science  of  the  traditions,  and  his 
master,  'Alam  al-din  al-Bulqini,  obtained  him  the  senior 
professorial  chair  of  jurisprudence  at  the  Shaikhftniyya 
Madrasa,  a  post  formerly  held  by  his  father. 

His  arrogance,  and  lack  even  of  loyalty,  earned  him 
the  hatred  of  the  other  learned  men  of  the  city,  and  this 
feeling  was  fed  by  his  love  of  controversy.  His  covetous- 
ness  led  him  to  cut  down  the  pensions  allotted  to  the 
Sufis  belonging  to  his  school,  or  give  them  to  other 
persons,  and  they  rose  against  him,  in  February  1501. 
After  a  judicial  inquiry,  he  was  dismissed  by  the  Sultan 
Tuman-Bai ,  and  retired  to  his  house  on  the  island  of 
Rauda.  On  the  death  of  Ibn  Ballan,  the  successor  to  his 
professorial  chair,  an  offer  was  made  to  restore  him  to 
it,  but  he  refused,  and  died  in  retirement  on  17th  October 
1505.  He  himself  gives  us  the  names  of  three  hundred 
of  his  books;  Herr  Brockelmann's  list  contains  three 
hundred  and  fifteen  ;  and  Flugel  has  drawn  up  another, 
mentioning  five  hundred  and  sixty-one.  But  many  of 
these  compositions,  the  majority  of  which  are  not  original, 
consist  of  only  a  few  sheets.  A  single  volume,  now  at 
Leyden,  contains  fourteen  of  these  little  treatises.  He 
has  been  accused  of  taking  the  works  of  his  predecessors, 
touching  them  up  and  transforming  them,  and  then 
sending  them  forth  as  his  own.  They  have,  nevertheless, 
gained  considerable  popularity,  like  every  compilation 
which  brought  works  kept  in  the  libraries  of  remote 
countries  within  the  reach  of  the  younger  generation, 
at  a  period  when  there  was  no  printing  press  to  multiply 
and  disseminate  copies.  It  was  not  till  the  end  of  the 
eighteenth  century  that  printing  in  Arabic  characters 
made  its  first  appearance  in  Constantinople.  Up  to  that 
date  the  only  printed  works  known  to  the  Orientals  were 


368  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

the  Eastern  incunabula  of  Leyden  and  Rome.  Be  that 
as  it  may,  Suyuti,  as  far  as  we  are  concerned,  deserves 
the  credit  of  having  preserved  ancient  writings,  which 
would  have  been  utterly  lost  to  us,  but  for  his  labours 
as  an  epitomiser  and  compiler. 

His  History  of  the  Caliphs  has  been  praised,  because 
it  is  a  summary,  which,  though  convenient,  perhaps,  for 
the  use  of  schools  in  the  East,  is  quite  insufficient  for 
our  needs.  It  covers  the  period  between  Abu  Bakr 
and  the  year  1497,  when  Al-Mustamsik  became  the 
'Abbasid  Caliph  at  Cairo.  It  has  been  published  at 
Calcutta  by  Nassau  Lees,  and  translated  into  English  by 
Jarrett.  It  is  followed  by  a  didactic  poem  intended  to 
be  learnt  by  heart,  and  in  which  the  names  of  all  the 
Caliphs  are  arranged  in  order.  His  history  of  Egypt 
and  of  Cairo,  Husn  al-Muhddara,  is  a  compilation  from 
twenty-eight  historical  works.  He  also  wrote  the  ab- 
ridgment, and  the  continuation,  of  Dhahabi's  Tabaqdt 
al-Huffdz,  which  has  been  published  by  Wiistenfeld. 
His  book  on  the  interpreters  of  the  Koran  has  been 
published  by  Meursinge.  His  abridgment  of'lzz  al-din 
Ibn  al-Athir's  Lubdb,  extracted  from  Sam'ani's  great  work, 
has  appeared  at  Leyden  under  the  auspices  of  Veth.  His 
Kitdb  al-Azvd'il  (Book  of  Primordial  Knowledge)  is  an 
abridgment  from  Al- Askari,  which  has  been  studied  by 
Gosche.  His  Itqdn,  on  Koranic  exegesis,  has  been  edited 
at  Calcutta,  and  reprinted  at  Cairo.  A  commentary  on 
the  Koran,  which  is  famous  in  Eastern  countries,  is  the 
Tafsir  of  the  two  Jalals,  of  which  the  first  part,  down 
to  and  including  the  seventeenth  chapter,  was  written 
by  Jalal  al-din  Muhammad  al-Mahalli  (born  1389,  died 
1459),  a  Cairene  teacher  of  jurisprudence  and  a  per- 
severing commentator,  and  the  second  half  by  his  pupil, 


AFTER  THE    FALL   OF   BAGDAD  369 

Jalal  al-din  Suyuti,  who  completed  the  work  in  forty 
days.  Kosegarten  and  Grangeret  de  Lagrange  have 
published  extracts  from  the  anthology  entitled  Al-Marj 
al-nddir  (The  Flowery  Meadow).  His  Shaindrikh,  on 
the  science  of  history,  was  published  by  C.  F.  Seybold 
in  1896,  and  so  was  his  treatise  on. Kunyas  or  surnames. 

Ghars  al-din  Khalil  ibn  Shahin  al-Zahirl  (1410- 
1468)  was  given  a  robe  of  honour  when  he  was 
Governor  of  Alexandria  in  1435.  In  the  following  year 
he  was  appointed  to  conduct  the  Sacred  Caravan  from 
Cairo  to  Mecca,  and  the  title  of  vizier  was  bestowed 
on  him  for  the  occasion.  In  1437  we  find  him 
governor  of  the  fortress  of  Karak,  and  in  the  two 
following  years  at  Safad  and  Damascus.  He  left,  in  his 
Zubdat  kashf  al-mamdlik,  a  description,  political  and  ad- 
ininistrative,  of  the  states  ruled  by  the  Mamelukes  from 
the  thirteenth  to  the  fifteenth  century — in  other  words, 
of  Egypt,  Syria,  and  the  Hijaz.  The  text  of  this  work 
has  been  published  by  Monsieur  P-  Ravaisse.  He  also 
composed  an  oneirocritical  treatise  entitled  al-Ishdrdt 
(The  Signs),  which  has  been  studied  by  N.  Bland,  and 
printed  at  Cairo  on  the  margins  of  'Abdal-Ghani  al- 
Nabulusi's  Tdtir  al-andm. 

A  learned  man  of  Suyut  in  Egypt,  not  to  be  con- 
founded with  the  famous  polygraph  Suyuti,  was 
Shams  al-din  Abu  'Abdallah,  also  surnamed  Suyuti, 
who,  in  his  pious  longing  to  behold  the  sacred  spots  of 
Islam,  went  to  Mecca,  with  his  whole  family,  in  1444. 
He  remained  there  for  nine  years,  living  on  public 
charity.  He  then  returned  to  Cairo  (1453),  and  entered 
the  ser^'ice  of  a  high  functionary,  who  took  him  with 
him  to  Syria,  which  gave  the  zealous  pilgrim  the  oppor- 
tunity of  going  to  Jerusalem,  in  1469,  and  there  writing 


370  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

his  Itlidf  al-akhissd,  a  history  and  description  of  the 
Temple,  which  was  studied  by  P.  Lemming  at  Copen- 
hagen in  1817,  translated  into  English  by  J.  Reynolds 
in  1836,  and  extracts  from  which  have  been  lately  re- 
translated by  Guy  Le  Strange. 

In  Egypt,  too,  dwelt  the  veterinary  surgeon  to  Sultan 
Malik-Nasir,  son  of  Qala'un,  Abii  Bakr  ibn  al-Mun- 
dhir,  who  died  in  1340,  and  wrote  the  Ndsiri — the  name 
usually  given  to  the  Kdinil  al-Sind'' atain  (The  Perfec- 
tion of  the  Two  Arts) — a  complete  treatise  on  Hippo- 
pathology  and  veterinary  science,  which  has  been 
translated  by  Perron.  A  Cairene  physician,  born  at 
Sinjar,  who  died  of  the  plague  in  1348,  Ibn  al-Akfani, 
wrote  an  encyclopaedia  of  sixty  different  sciences, 
called  Irshdd  al-qdsid  (The  Direction  of  Him  who 
Searches  out  the  Highest  Questions),  published  by 
Sprenger  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica,  and  added  to  it  trea- 
tises on  ophthalmology  [Kashf  al-rain),  domestic  medi- 
cine {Ghunyat  al-labiU),  and  the  practice  of  bleeding 
[Nikdyat  al-qasd),  and  works  on  precious  stones  [Nukhab 
al-Dhakhd'ir),  and  on  the  purchase  of  slaves  {al-Nazar 
waH-tahqtq),  which  have  never  been  printed.  At  the 
same  period,  Kamal  al-din  Muhammad  ibn  Musa  AL- 
DamirI,  who  was  born  in  1344,  and  died  in  Cairo  in 
1405,  wrote  his  Haydt  al-haiwdn  (The  Life  of  Animals), 
a  dictionary  of  zoology  which  also  touches  on  questions 
of  grammar  and  etymology  as  connected  with  the  names 
of  animals,  with  quotations  from  the  traditions,  frag- 
ments of  poetry,  and  proverbs,  bearing  on  the  subject. 
He  revised  this  work  three  times,  and  the  largest  edition, 
finished  in  1371,  has  been  printed  at  Cairo  six  times. 

Izz"  al-din  AlDAMiR  ibn  'All  ibn  Aidamir  AL-JlLDAKi, 
who  died  at  Cairo  in  1342,  was  an  alchemist,  who  wrote 


AFTER  THE  FALL  OF  BAGDAd    371 

many  books  upon  his  favourite  science,  the  mother  of 
modern  chemistry,  which  he  calls  the  science  of  the 
scales  ('?■/;«  al-mtzdii),  and  of  the  key  (^ilm  al-miftdli). 
Several  of  his  works,  of  course,  are  devoted  to  the 
search  for  the  philosopher's  stone  {talab  al-iksir),  the 
elixir  of  life  par  excellence.  Haji  Khalfa  enumerates 
eighty-four  books  of  his,  dealing  with  the  arcana  of  the 
mysterious  science. 

The  Beni-Ziyan  of  Tilims^n  found  their  historian  in 
the  person  of  Abu  'Abdallah  Muhammad  ibn  'Abdal- 
Jalil,  Imam  of  Tanas,  who  flourished  at  Tilimsan  imder 
Sultan  Al-Mutawakkil,  to  whom  he  dedicated  his  book, 
Nazm  al-durr  wa!l-iqydn  (Necklace  of  Pearls  and  Native 
Gold),  of  which  the  first  part  has  been  translated  by  the 
Abbe  Barges.     He  died  in  1494. 

Abu'l-Hasan  'Alt  NtiR  AL-DIN  AL-SAMHtJDf,  the 
historian  of  the  city  of  Medina,  was  born  on  the  banks 
of  the  Upper  Nile,  at  Samhiad,  a  large  village  in  Upper 
Egypt.  He  went  to  Cairo  for  his  education,  left  it 
to  go  on  pilgrimage,  and  never  returned,  for  in  1465  he 
made  his  home  at  Medina,  and  taught  in  one  of  the 
chief  schools  of  that  place.  He  undertook  to  clear  the 
great  Mosque,  which  had  been  destroyed  in  the  con- 
flagration of  1256,  of  rubbish  and  ashes,  and  never 
ceased  to  keep  up  active  correspondence  with  the 
Princes  of  Bagdad  and  Cairo,  and  beg  their  financial 
assistance,  till,  in  1474,  he  persuaded  the  Egyptian  Sultan 
Qaitbai  to  provide  him  with  means  to  reconstruct  the 
ruined  building.  This  Sultan  himself  paid  a  visit  to 
Medina  in  1479,  and  Samhudi  had  an  interview  with 
him,  the  principal  outcome  of  which  was  that  the 
natives  of  the  city  were  forbidden  to  trade  in  spurious 
relics  of  the  Prophet.     During  his  absence  at  Mecca  in 


372  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

1481,  the  Mosque  at  Medina  once  more  caught  fire,  and 
this  time  its  ruin  included  that  of  the  historian's  own 
house,  and  his  hbrary  of  three  hundred  volumes.  While 
the  rebuilding  was  in  progress,  he  took  the  opportunity 
of  going  to  Samhud  to  see  his  aged  mother,  after  a 
separation  of  sixteen  years.  She  died  ten  days  after 
her  son's  return,  and  he  took  his  way  back  to  Medina, 
carrying  with  him  a  large  quantity  of  books  presented 
to  him  by  the  Sultan,  to  re-form  his  library.  He  was 
appointed  Shaikh  al-Islam  in  the  city  of  the  Prophet, 
and  died  there  in  1505.  In  the  fire  which  consumed 
his  house,  he  lost  the  unfinished  manuscript  of  a  great 
history  of  Medina  which  he  had  planned,  and  which 
was  to  have  included  everything  hitherto  written  on 
that  subject.  But,  at  the  request  of  a  great  personage, 
he  had  made  a  carefully  arranged  extract  (  Wafd  al-  Wafa), 
which  he  had  taken  with  him  to  Mecca,  intending  to 
make  a  fair  copy  of  it.  From  this  work  Wiistenfeld 
drew  the  documents  on  the  history  of  Medina  which  he 
published  at  Gottingen.  A  still  more  abridged  edition, 
entitled  Khuldsat  al-  Wafd,  has  been  printed  at  Bulaq. 

A  Persian,  Ikhtiyar  al-din  ibn  Ghiyath  al-din  al- 
Husaini,  who  had  studied  at  Herat,  became  qddt  there, 
and  retired,  after  the  town  was  taken  by  Muhammad 
Khin  Shaibani,  to  his  native  village,  where  he  devoted 
himself  to  agriculture,  dying  at  Turbat  in  1522,  wrote 
the  Asds  al-iqtibds  (Basis  of  Plagiarism),  in  1492,  at  the 
request  of  the  Timurid  Sultan,  Husain  Baiqar^.  This 
work,  which  has  been  printed  at  Constantinople,  is  a 
collection  of  verses  from  the  Koran,  traditions,  proverbs, 
and  selected  pieces  in  poetry  and  prose — a  regular 
editor's  manual. 

A  compatriot  of  his,  Abu'l-Qasim  al-Laithi  al-Samar- 


AFTER   THE   FALL  OF   BAGDAD  373 

qandt,  wrote,  towards  the  year  1483,  a  treatise  on  meta- 
phors, called  Fard'id  al-fawd'id,  and  better  known  under 
the  name  of  Risdlat  al-Samarqandiyya,  which,  even  within 
quite  recent  times,  has  been  the  subject  of  many  com- 
mentaries. 

Suyuti,  whom  we  hav€  seen  accused  of  plagiarism, 
and,  worse  than  that,  of  downright  theft,  brought  the 
same  charge  against  Shihab  al-din  al-QastallanI 
(1448-1517),  a  learned  Shifi'ite,  who  was  born  at  Cairo, 
was  a  preacher  in  that  city,  and  died  there.  He  had 
him  summoned  before  the  Shaikh-al-Islam,  declaring  he 
had  copied  many  of  his  works  without  mentioning  his 
name.  Qastallani,  desiring  to  make  up  the  quarrel, 
afterwards  went  to  Suyuti's  house,  on  the  island  of 
Rauda,  but  was  not  admitted.  The  dispute  arose  over 
his  Mawdhib  al-Laduniyya  (The  Mysterious  Gifts),  a  work 
on  the  biography  of  the  Prophet.  The  book  has  attained 
great  popularity,  has  been  translated  into  Turkish,  and 
a  commentary  in  the  same  language  has  been  written 
on  it.  It  has  also  been  frequently  reprinted.  A  com- 
mentary on  Bukhari's  Sahih,  Irshdd  al-Sdri  (Guide  for 
the  Nocturnal  Traveller),  in  ten  volumes,  has  been 
printed  at  Bulaq  and  at  Lucknow.  The  same  author 
produced  other  works  on  the  merits  of  'Abdal-Qadir  al- 
Gilani,  of  Shaikh  Abu'l-Qasim  Shatibi,  and  of  Shaikh 
Abii'l- Abbas  Ahmad  al-Harrar,  prior  of  the  al-Zahidi 
cloister,  near  Cairo.  But,  with  the  exception  of  the 
second,  these  books  have  not  come  down  to  us. 

Abu'1-Yumn 'Abdal-Rahman  MujfR  AL-dIn  al-Ulaimi, 
Grand  Qadi  of  the  Hanbalites  at  Jerusalem,  who  died 
in  1521,  wrote  a  chronicle  of  Jerusalem  and  Hebron, 
called  Anis  al-JalU  (The  Comrade  of  the  Glorious  Man), 
extracts  from  which  Von  Hammer  has  published  in  the 


374  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Mines  de  [Orient,  and  fragments  of  which  have  been 
translated  by  Henry  Sauvaire.  This  chronicle  was  com- 
posed, or  rather  compiled,  with  marvellous  rapidity.  It 
was  finished  in  less  than  four  months,  and  during  one  of 
these  circumstances  prevented  the  author  from  writing 
at  all. 

A  pupil  of  Suyuti,  Abu'l-Barakat  Muhammad  IBN 
Iyas,  a  Hanbalite  of  humble  birth,  who  was  born  on  9th 
June  1448,  and  died  towards  1524,  turned  his  attention 
to  the  general  history  of  the  world,  and  to  the  history  of 
Egypt  down  to  the  year  1522,  which  he  arranged  accord- 
ing to  the  years  and  months,  and  entitled  Badd'i'  al- 
Zuhiir.  We  also  owe  him  a  book  on  cosmography, 
dealing  more  especially  with  Egypt,  called  Nashaq  al- 
Azhdr  (The  Perfume  of  Flowers),  which  was  completed 
in  15 16,  and  has  been  analysed  by  Langles  in  the  Notices 
et  Extraits. 

Abu  'Abdallah  'Abdal-Rahman  of  Yemen,  surnamed 
Ibn  al-Daiba'  (which  means,  apparently,  the  Son  of  the 
White  Man),  who  was  born  at  Zabid  on  7th  October 
146 1,  was  brought  up  by  his  maternal  grandfather,  Isma'il, 
while  his  father  was  travelling  on  the  Indian  coasts.  In 
the  course  of  this  journey  he  died,  leaving  his  son  in 
poverty.  The  youth  had  a  taste  for  mathematics  and 
legal  studies.  He  travelled  for  educational  purposes, 
then  returned  to  Zabid,  made  the  pilgrimage  in  1491, 
attended  the  teachings  of  Sakhawi  at  Mecca,  and,  when 
back  in  his  native  town,  conceived  the  idea  of  writing  its 
history.  His  Bughyat  al-Mustafid,  which  goes  down  to 
the  year  1495,  attracted  the  attention  of  the  Sultan 
Malik-Muzaffar  'Amir  ibn  Tahir,  who  commissioned 
him  to  write  his  history  of  the  Beni-Tahir  dynasty 
{Al-iqd  al-bdhi)',  The  Shining  Necklace),  rewarded  him 


AFTER  THE  FALL  OF  BAGDAD    375 

generously  for  his  labour,  and  appointed  him  to  teach 
the  traditions  in  the  great  Mosque  at  Zabid,  a  position 
which  he  worthily  filled  until  his  death  in  1537.  From 
the  Bughyat  Th.  Johannsen  has  made  fragmentary  ex- 
tracts which  appear  in  his  Historia  Jeinancz.  Previously, 
Abu  'Abdallah  Muhammad  al-Janadi,  who  died  in 
1332,  had  written  the  political  and  literary  history  of 
Yemen,  in  a  book  entitled  SulUk,  from  which  Mr.  H.  C. 
Kay  has  drawn  facts  as  to  the  Carmathians  of  that 
country. 

The  Ottoman  Empire  was  then  carrying  on  that  great 
series  of  Asiatic  conquests  which  followed  on  its  estab- 
lishment in  Europe.  The  battle  of  Marj-Dabak,  near 
Aleppo,  and  the  death  of  the  Mameluke  Sultan  Qansuh 
al-Ghurt  had  delivered  Syria  into  Ottoman  hands,  and 
Egypt  was  conquered  by  Selim  I.  in  1517.  IBN  Zunbul, 
surnamed  al-Ramnidl  (the  Geomancer),  because  he 
earned  his  livelihood  by  drawing  out  horoscopes  on  the 
sand,  had  an  opportunity  of  watching  the  m.ovements  of 
the  Turkish  troops,  probably  in  some  position  connected 
with  the  military  arrangements.  He  was  even  shut  up, 
with  the  body  of  troops  to  which  he  was  attached,  in  the 
fortress  of  Aboukir.  He  drew  up  a  history  of  the  Otto- 
man conquest  of  Egypt,  a  general  geography,  and  a 
treatise  on  geomancy. 

The  Turks,  like  the  Persians  in  bygone  days,  were 
beginning  to  write  in  Arabic.  Mustafa,  a  teacher  who 
was  born  at  Tashkopri,  in  the  year  of  Muhammad  IL's 
conquest  of  Constantinople  (1453),  and  who  was  chosen 
by  Bayezid  II.  to  be  tutor  to  his  son  Selim,  dreamt,  the 
night  before  he  left  Broussa  for  Angora,  that  a  handsome 
old  man  appeared  to  him,  and  forewarned  him  of  the 
birth  of  a  son,  whom  he  would  call  Ahmad.     The  dream 


376  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

came  true.  Within  a  month,  on  2nd  December  1495, 
Ahmad  was  born,  and  was  surnamed  Tashkopri-Zade 
(the  Son  of  Tashkopri),  after  his  father's  local  appella- 
tion. Having  studied  every  kind  of  learning  known  to 
the  Orientals  of  the  Middle  Ages,  he  himself  began  to 
teach,  at  Dimetoka,  at  Constantinople,  at  Uskiup  in 
Macedonia,  and  at  Adrianople,  where  he  was  qddt  in 
1551.  In  1554  he  was  attacked  by  an  inflammation  of 
the  eyes,  became  almost  totally  blind,  and  was  obliged  to 
dictate  his  works.  He  died  in  1560.  His  Nawddir  al- 
akhbdr  (Curiosities  of  History),  is  a  dictionary,  in  alpha- 
betical order,  of  the  illustrious  men  of  Islam,  after 
Abu  Muhammad's  life  of  the  Companions  of  the 
Prophet,  Ibn  Khallikan's  biographical  dictionary,  and 
Shahrastani's  history  of  the  philosophers.  His  Slia- 
qd'iq  al-Nuindniyya  (The  Anemones)  is  a  work  devoted 
to  the  biographies  of  five  hundred  and  twenty-two 
illustrious  men,  'Ulema  and  Sufis,  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire,  divided  into  ten  classes,  according  to  the  ten 
reigns,  beginning  with  that  of  'Osraan,  son  of  Ertoghrul, 
and  ending  with  that  of  Sulaiman.  At  the  end  of  the 
book  we  find  the  author's  own  autobiography,  dictated 
in  1558.  His  Miftdh  al-Sdddat  wa-Misbdh  al-siyddat 
(Key  of  Happiness,  and  Lantern  of  Mastery)  is  an  en- 
cyclopaedia on  the  objects  of  the  various  branches  of 
learning,  dictated  to  his  pupils,  and  concluded  in  1560. 
It  has  been  utilised  by  Haji  Khalfa  for  his  bibliogra- 
phical dictionary,  and  translated  into  German  by  Von 
Hammer.  The  author's  son,  Kamal  al-din  Muhammad, 
translated  the  work  into  Turkish,  and  made  additions  to 
it.     This  version  has  been  printed  at  Constantinople.    ' 

Al-Husain  ibn   Muhammad  AL-DiYARBAKRt,  who  was 
born  at  Diyarbakr,  settled  at  Mecca,  where  he  was  qddi, 


AFTER  THE    FALL   OF   BAGDAD  377 

and  died  there  in  1558.  His  Khamts  ft  Ahwdl  al-nafs 
al-nafis  (Book  divided  into  Five  Parts,  dealing  with  the 
Precious  Soul)  is  a  biography  of  the  Prophet,  compiled 
from  over  a  hundred  different  works,  and  is  followed  by  a 
general  review  of  all  the  Caliphs  down  to  Sultan  Sulaimin 
L  (1520).  Certain  copies  of  this  work,  which  was  finished 
in  1533,  carry  it  down  to  Murad  IIL  (1574).  It  has 
been  printed  at  Cairo.  The  story  of  the  assassination  of 
the  Caliph  'Umar  has  been  extracted  from  it,  and  pub- 
lished, with  a  German  translation,  by  O.  von  Platen.  A 
shorter  extract  appears  in  Petermann's  Arabic  grammar. 

In  India,  Shaikh  Zain  al-din  al-Ma'bari  was  writing  an 
Arabic  history  of  the  development  of  Islam  in  Malabar, 
of  the  Portuguese  establishment  there,  and  of  the  perse- 
cution inflicted  by  that  nation  on  the  Moslems,  between 
1498  and  1577.  His  Tuhfat  al-Mujdhidin  has  been  trans- 
lated into  English  by  Rowlandson,  and  a  fragment  of  it 
has  been  inserted  into  J.  Briggs'  translation  of  Ferishta's 
history  of  India. 

Muhammad  QUTB  AL-DiN  al-Nahrawali  (1511-1582) 
came  of  a  family  which  at  one  time  dwelt  at  Nahra- 
wala,  the  capital  of  Gujerat,  in  India.  Here  his  great- 
grandfather, Qadi  Khan  Mahmud  of  Delhi,  had  lived. 
His  father  emigrated  to  Mecca,  where  he  held  a  pro- 
fessorial chair,  and  there  Muhammad  was  born.  Having 
concluded  his  studies  in  his  native,  city,  the  young  man 
proceeded  to  Egypt,  and  attended  the  lectures  of  the 
professors  there,  who  were  Suyuti's  pupils.  Thence  he 
went  to  Constantinople.  He  was  presented  to  Sultan 
Sulaiman  by  Ayas  Pacha,  the  vizier,  a  robe  of  honour 
was  bestowed  upon  him,  and  he  was  appointed  pro- 
fessor at  the  Ashrafiyya,  a  school  at  Mecca,  the  library 
of  which  he  set  in  order.  He  has  left  an  account  of  a 
25 


378  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

second  journey  from  Medina  to  Constantinople,  in  the 
course  of  which  he  passed  through  Asia  Minor  (1558). 
The  Vizier  'All  Pacha  was  telling  him  the  story  of  his 
campaigns,  when  Qutb  al-din  observed  that,  when 
ocular  witnesses  die  out,  history  is  apt  to  fade  away, 
unless  the  facts  are  committed  to  paper,  and  cited,  as  a 
model  for  this  purpose,  Abu  Shama's  history  of  Nur- 
al-din  and  Saladin.  'Ali  Pacha  then  desired  a  secretary, 
'All  Chelebi,  to  write  an  account  of  the  Ottoman 
campaigns,  a  duty  he  seems  to  have  left  unperformed. 
Qutb  al-din  went  back  to  Mecca,  and  was  appointed 
professor  of  the  Hanbalite  rite  when  the  Sulaimaniyya 
University  was  established  there  in  1567.  He  was  mufti 
of  the  Holy  City  when  he  died.  His  ridm  bi-dldm 
Balad  al-Hardm  (Instruction  as  to  the  Notable  Peculi- 
arities of  the  Sacred  Dwelling-place)  is  a  history  of  the 
city  of  Mecca  and  of  the  Ka'ba,  which  has  been  pub- 
lished by  Wiistenfeld.  His  Barq  al-  Yamdnt  (Lightning 
Flash  of  Yemen)  contains  the  history  of  Arabia  Felix 
from  the  year  1495,  that  of  the  first  Ottoman  con- 
quest, under  the  Vizier  Sulaiman  Pacha,  of  the  return 
of  the  Zaidites,  and  of  the  second  conquest,  under  the 
Grand  Vizier  Sinan  Pacha,  to  whom  the  whole  work 
is  dedicated. 

Mustafa  Efendi  AL-JannAbI  belonged  to  the.  little 
town  of  Jannaba,  on  the  Persian  Gulf.  He  was  at  one 
time  qddi  of  Aleppo,  but  was  dismissed,  and  died  in 
1591.  He  wrote  in  Arabic,  and  afterwards  translated 
into  Turkish,  a  history  of  eighty-two  Moslem  dynasties, 
in  eighty-two  chapters,  down  to  the  year  1589.  From  it 
J.  B.  Podesta  took  the  history  of  Tamerlane,  which  he 
translated  into  Latin  and  published  at  Vienna  in  1680. 
The   same   author   also  left  a  treatise  on  the  building 


AFTER  THE   FALL  OF   BAGDAD  379 

of  the  Mosque  of  St.  Sophia,  and  on  the  walls  of 
Constantinople. 

'Amir  al-Ru'amI,  secretary  to  the  princes  Shams  al-din 
and  'Izz  al-din,  who  held  the  fortress  of  Kaukaban,  near 
San  4,  in  the  days  of  the  Turkish  conquest,  was  in  both 
personal  and  epistolary  intercourse  with  the  commanders 
of  the  Ottoman  troops,  and  especially  with  Hasan  Pacha, 
who  was  appointed  in  1580.  He  enshrined  his  recollec- 
tions in  two  volumes,  one  of  which,  now  in  the  Leyden 
Library,  has  been  published  by  Rutgers,  under  the  title 
of  Historia  Jeinance  sub  Hasano  Pascha,  while  the  other 
deals  exclusively  with  the  history  of  the  Emir  'Izz  al-din. 

Abu'l-'Abbas  Ahmad  AL-QARAMANt  (1552-1610)  was 
born  at  Damascus.  His  father,  who  was  inspector  of 
the  Mosque  of  the  Omeyyads,  sold  the  prayer-carpets 
for  his  own  benefit,  caused  a  Malikite  school  to  be 
pulled  down,  and  was  punished  by  being  strangled  in 
1559.  Ahmad,  the  son,  entered  the  Government  service  ; 
acted  first  as  secretary,  and  then  as  president,  of  the 
board  of  management  of  the  two  women's  hospitals  at 
Damascus,  which  depended  on  Egypt,  and  was  a  promi- 
nent personage,  who  specially  frequented  legal  circles. 
He  wrote  a  summary  of  the  history  of  Jannabi,  with 
the  addition  of  some  supplementary  information  and 
certain  inaccuracies,  which  he  entitled  Akhbdr  al-duwal 
zva-AiMr  a/- Uwa/  (History  oi  the  Dynasties  and  Monu- 
ments of  the  Ancients).  The  text  of  this  work  has  been 
printed  at  Bijlaq  on  the  margins  of  Ibn  al-Athir. 

Abu'l  -  Mawahib  Abdal-Wahhab  al-Sha'ranI  was 
a  mystic,  belonging  to  Old  Cairo,  who  gained  celebrity, 
at  an  early  age,  by  his  writings,  which  his  opponents 
declared  to  be  opposed  to  the  orthodox  dogma.  An 
attempt  was  made  to  convict  him  of  impiety  by  falsify- 


38o  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

ing  one  of  his  books,  but  he  never  rested  till  he  had 
succeeded  in  convincing  the  chief  doctors  of  his  inno- 
cence. He  died  in  1565,  leaving  his  name  to  a  sect 
which  he  had  founded.  He  believed  himself  to  have 
received  the  most  wonderful  gifts  from  God,  amongst 
them  the  power  of  working  miracles.  His  Scales  of  the 
Moslem  Laiv,  in  which  he  endeavours  to  elucidate  the 
spirit  of  Islamic  law,  and  reduce  the  divergent  doctrines 
of  the  four  orthodox  rites  to  an  agreement,  has  been 
translated  by  Dr.  Perron.  Sha'rani  explains  and  weighs 
the  reasons  for  the  disagreement  between  the  various 
lawyers,  and  accounts  for  them  by  the  uncertainty  as 
to  the  meaning  of  certain  hadiths,  thus  clearly  showing 
that,  in  the  eyes  of  Moslem  doctors,  the  great  edihce  of 
Moslem  law  is  a  purely  human  work,  notwithstanding 
the  religious  authority  on  which  it  rests.  His  Lawdqih 
al-Anwdr  (The  Fecundating  Lights),  containing  the  lives 
of  the  most  famous  mystics,  from  the  earliest  days  of 
Sufism,  has  been  printed  at  Cairo,  and  so  has  his  Lata  if 
al-minan. 

Al-Maqqar1  of  Tilimsan 

At  the  other  end  of  the  Moslem  world,  in  the  town  of 
Tilimsan,  in  the  heart  of  the  Maghrib,  Shihab  al-din 
Abu'l-'Abbas  AL-Maqqari,  thus  called  after  the  village 
of  Maqqara,  to  which  his  family  originally  belonged, 
was  born  about  the  year  1591.  He  was  educated  in  the 
town  of  his  birth,  where  his  uncle  Sa'id  was  mufti  for 
sixty  years,  and  later  went  to  complete  his  studies  at 
Fez  and  Morocco.  Here  he  remained  till  1618,  when 
he  decided  to  make  the  pilgrimage,  so  as  to  escape 
the  political  disturbances  which  had  just  broken  out. 
Returning  the   following  year,  he  halted  at  Cairo,  and 


AFTER  THE   FALL  OF   BAGDAd  381 

there  took  him  a  wife.  Notwithstanding  the  honour 
shown  him,  life  in  that  city  struck  him  as  too  inhospit- 
able to  be  pleasant,  and,  bitten  once  more  with  his  love 
of  travel,  he  went  to  Jerusalem  in  1620,  made  five  more 
journeys  to  Mecca,  and  remained  some  time  at  Medina, 
where  he  gave  a  course  of  lectures  on  the  kadith.  He 
returned  to  Cairo  in  1627,  but  did  not  stay  there;  paid 
another  visit  to  Jerusalem,  and  then  went  on  to  Damas- 
cus, where  his  compatriots  from  the  Maghrib  had 
prepared  him  a  residence  which  did  not  take  his 
fancy.  Ahmad  ibn  Shahin,  the  head  of  the  Jaqmaqiyya 
School,  sent  him  the  keys  of  that  establishment  with  an 
invitation  in  verse,  to  which  Maqqari  replied  in  like 
fashion.  He  was  delighted  with  the  manner  in  which 
the  school  was  housed,  and  desired  no  other  habitation. 
During  his  stay  there,  he  gave  lessons  in  the  great 
Mosque.  The  success  of  this  course  left  a  most  pleasing 
impression  upon  him,  to  which  reference  is  made  in  bis 
poems,  and  he  returned  to  Damascus  in  1631.  He  had 
gone  back  to  Cairo,  and  was  preparing  to  leave  that  city 
for  good,  when  he  was  attacked  by  a  fever,  and  carried 
off,  in  January  1632.  The  Nafh  al-Tib  (Breath  of  the 
Perfumes),  his  principal  work,  is  divided  into  two  parts, 
the  first  devoted  to  the  political  history  of  Moslem 
_Spain,  and  that  of  the  learned  men  born  there  ;  and 
the  second,  to  the  life  of  the  Vizier  Lisan  al-din  Ibn 
al-Khatib.  This  bulky  work,  printed  at  Bulaq  in  four 
volumes,  was  written  in  the  space  of  one  year,  during 
his  stay  at  Cairo,  after  his  first  journey  to  Damascus. 
The  book  was  compiled  at  the  request  of  Ahmad  Ibn 
Shahin,  out  of  materials  broijght  together  long  before. 
The  rapidity  with  which  it  was  produced  is  evidenced  by 
a  certain  lack  of  order  in  the  construction.     The  first 


382  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

part  of  the  Nafh  al-Tib  has  been  published,  under  the 
title  of  Analectes  sur  I' Histoire  et  la  Liiterature  des 
Arabes  d'Espagne,  by  R.  Dozy,  G.  Dugat,  L.  Krehl,  and 
W.  Wright.  The  political  part  of  the  book  has  been- 
extracted,  and  arranged  in  a  different  order,  by  Pascual 
de  Gayangos,  and  translated  by  him  into  English,  under 
the  title  of  The  History  of  the  Mohammedan  Dynasties  in 
Spain. 

HAjt  Khalfa 

Mustafa  HajI  Khalfa,  surnamed  Kdtib  Chelebi,  was 
a  Constantinopolitan  Turk,  whose  father  was  employed 
in  the  War  Office.  He  himself  entered  the  military 
bureaux,  and  accompanied  the  army  on  the  Bagdad 
campaign.  The  following  year  he  was  present  at  the 
siege  of  Erzeroum.  When  he  returned  to  Constanti- 
nople, in  1628,  his  father  was  dead,  and  had  left  him  a 
request  that  he  would  never  give  up  his  studies.  The 
young  man  was  not,  however,  at  once  able  to  carry  out 
his  parent's  last  behest,  for  he  was  obliged  to  go  with  the 
army  to  Bagdad  and  Hamadhan,  in  1629,  and  to  Aleppo,  in 
1633.  But  he  took  advantage  of  the  winter  season  of  the 
latter  campaign  to  make  the  pilgrimage  to  Mecca,  whence 
his  honorary  title  of  Hdji  (Pilgrim).  After  the  Erivan 
campaign,  he  left  the  public  service,  and  devoted  him- 
self altogether  to  learning.  The  recommendation  of  the 
friend  of  his  youth,  the  mufti  "Abdal-Rahim  Efendi, 
procured  him  the  post  of  Khalifa  (pronounced  by  the 
Turks  "  Khalfa  ")  or  lieutenant  at  the  War  Office,  which 
left  him  leisure  to  choose  his  own  occupations.  In  this 
quality  he  was  present  at  the  great  council  held  in  the 
presence  of  Sultan  Muhammad  IV.,  on  i8th  February 
1653,  to  remedy  the  disordered  condition  of  the  finances. 


AFTER  THE   FALL  OF   BAGDAd  383 

He  died  before  he  was  sixty,  in  September  1658.  Besides 
his  Turkish  works,  such  as  his  Jihdn-Numa,  and  his 
history  of  the  naval  wars,  with  which  we  have  nothing 
to  do  in  this  place,  he  left  a  great  encyclopaedic  and 
bibliographic  treatise,  the  basis  of  all  inquiry  into  Arabic, 
Persian,  and  Turkish  literature,  called  the  Kashf  al- 
Zuniin  (Doubts  Cleared  up),  the  text  of  which,  and  a 
Latin  translation,  have  been  given  to  the  world  by 
Gustav  Fliigel,  under  the  title  of  Lexicon  Bibliographi- 
cuin.  His  Fadhlaka  is  a  summary  of  jannabi's  general 
history,  in  which  the  number  of  dynasties  dealt  with  is 
carried  from  eighty-two  to  one  hundred  and  fifty. 

Shaikh  Muhammad  ibn  "Abdal-Muti  AL-ISHAQt  was 
born  at  Manuf,  in  Egypt,  and  received  his  education 
there.  At  a  later  date  he  went  to  Cairo,  where  he  made 
his  name  as  a  poet.  He  died  in  his  native  town,  soon 
after  the  year  1650.  He  had  dedicated  his  Akhbdr  al- 
Uwal,  an  anecdotic  history  of  Egypt  from  the  days  of 
the  Arab  conquest,  to  the  Ottoman  Sultan,  Mustafa  \. 

Ahmad  al-Khafaj1  was  descended  from!  an  old  Arab 
family,  settled  in  a  village  near  Cairo.  Having  studied 
philosophy  under  his  own  uncle,  Abu  Bakr  al-Shana- 
wani,  surnamed  the  Sibawaih  of  his  century,  he  made 
the  Mecca  pilgrimage  with  his  father,  and  pushed  on  to 
Constantinople,  where  he  studied  mathematics.  He  was 
appointed  qddi  in  Roumelia,  at  Uskiup,  and  at  Salonika, 
where  he  made  his  fortune,  and  was  sent  to, Egypt  as 
Qadi'Asker.  On  his  return  to  Constantinople  he  was  so 
slandered,  and  such  accusations  were  brought  against 
him,  that  he  was  banished,  and  sent  back  to  Cairo  to 
occupy  a  post  as  qddt,  the  emoluments  of  which  were 
expected  to  suffice  for  his  support.  He  then  turned  his 
attention  to  literary  work,  had  a  pupil,  Fadlallah,  who 


384  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

was  father  of  the  famous  biographer  Muhibbi,  and  died 
on  4th  June,  1659.  His  Khabdyd  al-Zawdyd  (Secrets 
Hidden  in  Corners)  is  a  history  of  the  literary  men  of 
his  time,  divided  into  five  sections — Syria,  the  Hijaz, 
Egypt,  the  Maghrib,  and  Rum  (in  other  words,  Turkey), 
with  the  addition  of  an  appendix  devoted  to  the  author's 
own  sermons  in  verse  and  prose.  His  pupil  Fadlallah 
took  a  copy  of  this  work  at  Damascus,  and  on  it  Kha- 
faji's  renown  rests.  His  Raihdna  is  a  second  edition  of 
the  same  work,  in  which  the  most  prominent  place  is 
given  to  the  poets,  and  it  contains  several  lectures,  one 
of  them  against  Yahya  ibn  ZakarJya,  Shaikh  al-Islam  at 
Constantinople.  Both  these  works  were  useful  to  Mu- 
hibbi, to  whom  we  shall  later  refer.  His  Tirdz  al-Majdlis 
(Fringe  of  the  Lectures)  is  a  collection  of  fifty-one  small 
pieces,  dealing  with  points  in  grammar,  exegesis,  and 
rhetoric. 

Fadlallah  ibn  Muhibb-Allah  (1621-1671),  who  was 
born  at  Damascus,  learnt  Persian  and  Turkish,  and  at- 
tracted notice  by  his  precocity.  When  he  was  sixteen, 
having  lost  his  father,  he  entered  the  service  of  the  mufti 
'Abdal-Rahman  al-'Imadi  as  his  secretary.  In  1638  he 
journeyed  to  Aleppo,  whither  the  Shaikh  al-Islam,  Yahya, 
had  come  from  Constantinople,  and  by  him  was  invested 
with  the  prebend  of  the  Derwishiyya  Mosque,  which  had 
been  held  by  his  father.  He  then  went  to  Constantinople 
and  Cairo,  assisted  the  qddt  Muhammad  al-Bursawi  in 
the  latter  city,  made  acquaintance  with  Khafaji,  and 
attended  his  teachings.  Sickness  drove  him  back  to 
Damascus,  and  induced  him  to  peruse  n:iedical  books 
and  study  medical  science,  but  his  health  was  not  re- 
stored. He  was  appointed  qddt  at  Diyarbakr,  felt  better 
there,  was  able  to  travel  to  Constantinople,  and  remained 


AFTER   THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  385 

there  four  years.  In  1666  he  was  appointed  qddi  at 
Beyrout,  and  lived  there  about  a  year,  the  usual  duration 
of  such  posts  under  the  Ottoman  rule.  He  went  back 
to  Damascus,  where  he  died.  His  supplement  to  the 
biographies  written  by  Hasan  al-Burint  formed  the 
basis  of  his  son  Muhibbi's  great  work. 

Ibrahim  ibn 'Abdal-Rahman  AL-KHlYARt  (1628-1671), 
who  came  of  an  old  family  settled  in  Egypt,  was  born 
at  Medina,  where  his  father,  who  had  come  from  Cairo 
on  pilgrimage,  had  remained  to  preach  and  teach  the 
hadith.  Ibrahim  followed  in  his  footsteps.  He  became 
preacher  in  the  Mosque  of  the  Prophet,  saw  himself 
ousted  from  this  position  by  a  stranger,  and  resolved 
to  journey  to  Constantinople,  where  his  petition  was 
granted  by  the  Shaikh-al-Islam  and  the  Grand  Vizier. 
On  his  way  back,  he  travelled  across  Syria  and  Palestine, 
and  so  rea'ched  Cairo,  where  he  sojourned  some  days 
before  joining  the  Medina  caravan  (1670).  He  did  not 
remain  long  in  possession  of  his  post,  for  the  Shaikh  of 
the  Mosque  insisted  that  the  Sha.fi'ite  preachers  should 
pronounce  the  Bismillah  according  to  the  Hanafite  rite — 
that  is  to  say,  in  an  undertone.  Al-Khiyari  refused  to 
obey  this  order,  and  died  suddenly,  of  poison,  on  4th 
November  1671.  He  wrote  an  account  of  his  journey, 
the  manuscript  of  which  is  at  Gotha,  and  which  has  been 
studied  by  Fr.  Tuch. 

During  the  same  period,  Ibn  Abi  Dinar  al-Ruaini  of 
Qairawan  wrote  (1689)  a  history  of  Northern  Africa  and 
Tunis,  while  in  Egypt,  in  the  same  year,  Muhammad 
DiyAb  al-Itl1d1  concluded  his  romance  of  the  Barme- 
kides,  composed  almost  entirely  of  fables,  which  has  been 
printed  several  times  at  Cairo  and  Bijlaq.  Muhammad 
AL-MUHiBBt,  the  son  of  Fadlallah,  was  born  at  Damascus 


3  86  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

in  165 1.  During  his  father's  absence,  and  when  he  him- 
self was  only  twelve  years  old,  he  kept  up  a  correspond- 
ence with  him  both  in  verse  and  in  rhymed  prose.  He 
went,  when  older,  to  complete  his  studies  at  Constanti- 
nople. His  patron  there  was  Ibn  Bairam,  who  had  been 
qddi  at  Damascus  for  some  time,  and  who  took  him  with 
him  when  he  was  appointed  Qadi'Asker  at  Adrianople. 
He  followed  Ibn  Bairam's  fortunes  when  he  was  replaced 
in  1676,  and  returned  to  Damascus  after  his  death. 
There  he  gave  himself  up  to  literary  labours,  went  on 
pilgrimage  to  Mecca,  acted  for  some  time  as  assistant 
qddi  in  that  city,  and  then  took  up  the  post  of  professor 
in  the  Aminiyya  School  at  Damascus.  He  died  there  on 
nth  November  1699.  His  principal  work,  which  has 
been  printed  in  four  volumes  at  Cairo,  contains  one 
thousand  two  hundred  and  eighty-nine  biographies  of 
famous  men  who  died  in  the  course  of  the  eleventh 
century  of  the  Hegira. 

Philology 

At  the  beginning  of  the  eighth  century  of  the  Hegira, 
Ahmad  ibn  'AH  ibn  Mas'ud  wrote  a  grammatical  treatise 
for  the  use  of  schools,  entitled  Mardh  al-arwdh,  which  has 
been  frequently  lithographed  and  printed  in  the  East. 

In  13 1 1  Jamal  al-din  Muhammad  Ibn  Mtjkarram  died 
at  Cairo.  He  was  a  compiler,  gifted  with  the  most 
astonishing  facility  of  production,  for  he  is  said  to  have 
left  five  hundred  volumes  behind  him,  and  to  his  zeal  we 
owe  a  work  of  very  great  value  as  regards  our  knowledge 
of  the  Arabic  tongue — the  Lisdn  al-Arab,  a  huge  dic- 
tionary, containing  the  substance  of  Jauhari's  Sahdh,  of 
Ibn  Duraid's  Jamhara,  and  of  the  Muhkam,  written  by 


AFTER   THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  387 

Ibn  Sida,  the  Spanish  philologist  of  Murcia.  Ibn  Mukar- 
ram  was  born  in  1232  in  Northern  Africa;  Compared 
with  his  great  work,  Ibn  'Asakir's  summary  of  the  history 
of  Damascus,  and  Sam'ani's  abridgment  of  that  of  Bag- 
dad, have  very  little  value. 

A  surname  known  all  over  the  Moslem  world  is  that 
of  Ibn  Ajurrum,  borne  by  Abu  'Abdallah  Muhammad 
ibn  Da'ud  al-Sanhaji,  of  whose  history  nothing  is  known, 
beyond  the  fact  that  he  died  in  1324,  and  that  he  wrote,  for 
the  benefit  of  his  own  son,  Abu  Muhammad,  a  very  ele- 
mentary grammar,  which  has  become  famous  under  the 
name  of  Ajurrilmiyya,  and  which  is  said  to  have  been 
composed  at  Mecca.  So  general  has  been  the  popularity 
of  this  little  book  that  it  has  become  the  basis  of  all  gram- 
matical study  in  the  East.  The  chief  reason  for  the 
favour  it  enjoys  is  its  brevity,  but  so  exceedingly  concise 
is  it,  that  it  needs  a  commentary.  There  have  been  many 
reprints  of  the  work,  from  the  Roman  edition  of  1592, 
and  the  Latin  translation  given  to  the  world  by  Thomas 
Erpenius  at  Leyden  in  1617,  down  to  Bresnier's  transla- 
tion (1846-1866),  Perowne's  (1852),  and  Trumpp's  (1876). 

'Abdallah  ibn  Yusuf  IBN  HiSHAM,  who  was  born  in 
1308,  was  a  disciple  of  the  Spanish  grammarian  Abu 
Hayyan.  He  was  a  Shafi'ite  doctor,  and  as  such  became 
a  teacher  of  Koranic  exegesis  at  Cairo.  Five  years  before 
his  death,  with  the  object  of  obtaining  a  post  in  a  mad- 
rasa  belonging  to  that  order,  he  went  over  to  the  Han- 
balite  rite.  He  died  in  1360,  having  written,  under  the 
title  of  Qatr  al-Nadd  (The  Rain  of  Dew),  a  grammar 
which  has  been  translated  into  French  by  Monsieur 
Goguyer.  His  Mughnt  al-labtb,  a  treatise  on  syntax  in 
general,  written  at  Mecca  between  1348  and  1353,  has 
been  printed  both  at  Teheran  and  at  Cairo.     His  Prdi, 


388  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

on  the  rules  of  inflection,  published  and  translated  into 
French  by  Silvestre  de  Sacy  in  his  Anthologie  Gramma- 
ticale  Arabe,  has  been  printed  at  Cairo  with  a  com- 
mentary, and  so  have  his  grammar  known  as  Shudhur 
al-dhahab  (Shreds  of  Gold),  and  his  "Enigmas"  {Algkdz) 
on  grammatical  difficulties.  Fifteen  of  his  works,  all 
dealing  with  grammar,  are  preserved  in  European 
libraries. 

Abii'l-Tahir  Majd  al-din  AL-FiRtJz-ABADf  (1329-1414) 
came  of  a  family  belonging  to  Firuz-Abad  in  Farsistan. 
He  was  born  in  Karizin,  a  small  town  near  Shiraz. 
He  studied  the  traditions  and  philology  at  Wasit,  Bag- 
dad, and  Damascus.  In  1349  he  accompanied  his  master, 
Taqi  al-din  'All  al-Subki,  to  Jerusalem,  remained  there 
ten  years,  occupied  with  literary  undertakings,  and  then 
departed  for  Cairo,  and  paid  visits  to  Asia  Minor  and 
India.  He  was  invited  to  Bagdad  by  the  Sultan  Ahmad 
ibn  Uwais.  In  1393  he  met  Tamerlane  at  Shiraz,  and 
was  well  received  and  richly  rewarded  by  the  con- 
queror. He  then  departed  once  more  to  India.  As 
he  was  making  his  way  back  to  Mecca,  the  Sultan  of 
Yemen,  Ismail  ibn  'Abbas,  gave  him  his  daughter  in 
marriage,  and,  in  1393,  appointed  him  Grand  Qadi  of 
Yemen,  with  a  residence  at  Zabid.  There  he  died,  having 
expressed  a  desire,  which  the  Sultan  would  not  permit 
him  to  gratify,  to  end  his  days  at  Mecca. 

He  had  built  houses  at  Mecca  and  Medina,  in  which 
professors  selected  by  himself  taught  during  his  own 
absences.  Firuz-Abadi  is  well  known  to  all  Arabic 
students,  even  to  beginners,  by  his  great  lexicographical 
work,  the  Qdmus  al-muhit  (The  Ocean  that  Surrounds 
the  Earth),  on  which  all  the  European  dictionaries  of 
the  classic  tongue  are  based,  either  directly  or  through 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  389 

the  various  commentaries  written  upon  it,  amongst 
which  we  may  mention  Sayyid  Murtada  al-Zabidi's  Tdj- 
al-arHs  (The  Bride's  Tiara),  which  has  been  printed 
in  ten  volumes  at  Bulaq.  He  also  wrote  in  Persian, 
as  is  proved  by  the  existence  of  his  Sifr  al-sadda,  a 
history  of  the  life  of  the  Prophet,  now  at  Gotha,  which 
was  translated  into  Arabic  by  Abu'l-Jtld  al-Makhzumi 
in  1401. 

Jabril  ibn  Farhat,  a  Christian,  belonged  to  the  family 
of  Matar.  He  was  born  at  Aleppo  on  20th  November 
1660,  and  studied  first  Syriac,  and  afterwards  Arabic, 
under  Shaikh  Sulaiman  al-Nahwi.  He  also  acquired 
Italian.  He  retired  from  the  world  before  he  was 
twenty,  took  religious  vows  at  the  age  of  twenty-three, 
and,  with  several  other  young  men,  left  his  native  town 
to  retire  into  the  monasteries  of  the  Lebanon.  The 
community  was  constituted  by  the  authority  of  the 
Maronite  patriarch  of  Ehden,  Istifan  al-Duwaihi,  in 
1694.  This  primate,  who  bore  the  title  of  Patriarch  of 
Antioch,  and  wrote  a  well-known  history  of  the  Maron- 
ites,  gave  the  convent  of  St.  Maura  at  Ehden,  in  the 
region  of  the  cedars,  to  be  its  dwelling-place.  In  171 1 
our  monk  betook  himself  to  Rome,  was  kindly  received 
by  the  Pope,  returned  to  the  Lebanon,  and  proceeded 
in  1721  to  Aleppo,  at  the  request  of  the  Melchite  bishop 
there,  to  correct  the  Arabic  translation  of  the  works  of 
St.  John  Chrysostom.  In  1725  he  was  appointed  Bishop 
of  Aleppo,  and  received  the  name  of  Germanos.  He  died 
on  9th  July  1732,  and  Niqulaus  al-Sa'igh,  a  priest  and 
poet,  Superior  of  the  Basilian  Monks  of  St.  John  at 
Shuair,  whose  poems  were  printed  at  Beyrout  in 
1859,  and  who  had  been  the  friend  of  his  youth,  wrote 
an  elegy  on  his  departure.      His  dtwdn,  which  includes 


3 go  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

poems  on  sacred  and  edifying  subjects,  was  abridged  by 
his  own  hand,  under  the  title  Tadhkira,  in  1720.  It  was 
printed  for  the  first  time  at  Beyrout  in  1866  ;  and  a 
second  edition,  annotated  by  Sa'id  al-Khuri,  appeared 
at  the  same  place  in  1894.  His  Arabic  grammar,  Bahth 
al-niatdlib,  has  run  through  three  editions  ;  the  first 
appeared  at  Malta  in  1836,  the  last  at  Beyrout  in  1891. 
His  dictionary  {^Ahkdm  bdb  al-i'rdb'),  abridged  from  the 
Qdmus,  was  published,  with  additions,  by  Rushaid 
Dahdah,  at  Marseilles,  in  1849. 

Morocco 

Abu'I- Abbas  Ahmad  ibn  Muhammad,  surnamed  Ibn 
al-Qadi,  who  lived  under  the  rule  of  Muley  Abu'l-'Abbas 
Ahmad  al-Mansur  (1578-1603),  wrote  a  number  of  his- 
torical and  biographical  works.  His  Jadhwat  al-Iqtibds, 
which  deals  with  the  men  of  mark  born  in  Fez,  or 
domiciled  there,  was  lithographed  in  that  town,  in 
1892.  His  biography  of  his  sovereign  and  patron,  al- 
Muntaqd  al-Maqsur,  has  been  quoted  by  the  author  of  the 
Nuzhat  al-Hddi ;  and  his  Durrat  al-hijdl,  a  biographical 
dictionary,  is  preserved  in  manuscript  in  the  library  of 
the  University  at  Algiers. 

Towards  the  close  of  the  sixteenth  century,  there 
died  in  the  battle  of  Wadi'l-Makhazin  (Alcazar  el-Kebir), 
in  which  the  Moors  defeated  the  Portuguese  (4th 
August  1578),  and  at  the  side  of  King  Don  Sebastian,  and 
of  Muley  Muhammad,  a  man  who  had  collected  the 
biographies  of  the  most  prominent  men  of  the  Maghrib 
during  the  tenth  century  of  the  Hegira  into  a  dictionary, 
entitled  Dauhat  al-Ndshir,  which  was  lithographed  at 
Fez    in   1891.      His   name  was   Muhammad  ibn 'Ali  ibn 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF  BAGDAD  391 

Misbah,  better  known  under  the  surname  of  IBN  Askar, 
and  he  was  born  at  Hibth,  in  the  district  of  Alcazar 
el-Saghir.  His  work  was  carried  on  by  Abu  'Abdallah 
Muhammad  ibn  al-Tayyib,  who  collected  the  materials 
for  a  biographical  dictionary  for  Morocco  during  the 
eleventh  and  twelfth  centuries  of  the  Hegira,  called 
the  Nashr  al- Mathdnt.  This,  too,  was  lithographed  at 
Fez,  in  1892, 

In  1661,  Abu  Salim  'Abdallah  ibn  Muhammad  al- 
'Ayyashi  was  accomplishing  a  journey  in  Southern 
Algeria  and  the  Barbary  States,  his  account  of  which 
{Rihld)  was  translated  into  French  by  Adrien  Ber- 
brugger  in  1846. 

Early  in  the  eighteenth  century,  Muhammad  al-Saghir 
ibn  al-Hajj  al-WafranJ  (of  the  Chelha  tribe  of  the 
Wafran),  who  lived  in  the  city  of  Morocco,  and  held 
an  official  position  at  the  court  of  Sultan  Muley  Isma'il 
(1672-1727),  fell  into  disgrace  at  the  end  of  his  life, 
and  died,  in  all  probability,  before  Oran  was  taken  by 
the  Spaniards  in  1732.  Under  the  title  of  Niishat  al- 
Hddt  he  wrote  a  history  of  the  Sa'dian  dynasty  (1511- 
1670),  which  has  been  utilised  by  Josd  de  Santo 
Antonio  Moura  (1824),  by  Graberg  af  Hemso  (1834), 
by  MacGuckin  de  Slane,  Muhammad  ibn  Rahhal,  and 
General  Dastugue,  and  which  has  been  published  in 
its  entirety,  and  translated  into  French,  by  O.  Houdas. 

The  Soudan 

At  the  beginning  of  the  fourteenth  century,  influenced 
by  the  Arab  learning  propagated  by  the  Berber  tribes 
of  the  Sahara,  the  northern  portions  of  the  negro 
countries    round    Timbuctoo    opened    their   portals    to 


392  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

civilisation,  and  ebony -skinned  doctors  dilated  on  the 
deep  subjects  a  knowledge  of  which  they  had  attained 
by  journeying  to  Cairo.  The  dwellers  in  the  Melli 
country  had  been  Moslems  from  the  days  of  the 
Moravids.  Ibn  Batiita,  the  traveller,  has  left  us  very 
curious  details  as  to  this  part  of  the  world,  which  he 
visited  in  the  course  of  his  tour  in  Africa.  Ahmad 
ibn  Ahmad  ibn  'Abdal-Rahman,  who  was  born  in  1357, 
went  to  Egypt  for  his  education.  He  even  taught  there, 
and  made  an  abridgment  of  the  commentary  written  by 
his  master,  Ibn  Marzuq,  the  younger,  on  the  Jumal. 
He  is  known  to  have  been  alive  after  the  year  1427. 
'Abdal- Aziz,  the  Takhurian,  whose  learning  was  very 
remarkable,  was  able  to  quote,  in  the  presence  of  the 
learned  men  of  Cairo,  and  without  a  single  fault,  the 
sources  whence  Sidi-Khalil  had  drawn  the  matter  of 
the  questions  dealt  with  in  his  Summary.  Another 
lawyer,  "who  knew  tales  of  travel  by  heart,"  was 
Makhluf  ibn  'Ali  al-Bilbali,  who  began  his  education 
at  a  very  advanced  age.  So  successful  were  his  first 
efforts  in  this  line  that  he  went  to  Fez  to  sit  at  the 
feet  of  'All  ibn  Ghazi,  and  from  that  time  his  powers 
won  him  a  great  reputation,  which  followed  him  when 
he  went  back  to  the  Soudan,  and  began  to  teach  there 
hiinself.  He  pined  for  the  land  in  which  he  had  ac- 
quired his  learning,  and  returned  to  Morocco,  but  was 
poisoned  there,  and  made  his  way  back  to  Timbuctoo, 
where  he  died  towards  the  year  1534. 

Al-Hajj  Ahmad  ibn  'Umar  ibn  Muhammad  Aqit, 
who  belonged  to  the  Berber  tribe  of  the  Sanhaja,  and 
was  born  at  Timbuctoo,  left  the  reputation  of  a  saint 
behind  him  in  his  own  country.  It  was  even  asserted 
that,  when  he  went   on  pilgrimage  in   1485,  he  saw  the 


AFTER  THE   FALL  OF  BAGDAd  393 

doors  of  the  Prophet's  tomb  at  Medina  open  wide  before 
him,  after  he  had  failed  to  obtain  access  to  that  building. 
In  the  course  of  his  journey  to  Mecca,  he  made  the 
acquaintance  of  Suyuti.  On  his  return,  which  coin- 
cided with  the  revolt  of  the  negro  tyrant  Sonni-'Ali,  he 
settled  at  Kano,  and  afterwards  at  other  Soudanese 
towns,  and  taught  there.  The  Sultan  of  the  country 
would  have  made  him  an  Imam,  but  he  refused  that 
post,  and  all  public  functions,  so  as  to  devote  his  whole 
time  to  teaching.  He  had  copied  a  considerable  number 
of  books  with  his  own  hand,  and  when  he  died,  in  1536, 
seven  hundred  volumes  were  found  in  his  house. 

His  brother.  Shaikh  Mahmud  ibn'Umar  (1463-1548), 
who  was  born  at  Timbuctoo,  was  the  most  venerated 
Marabout  in  the  Soudan.  He  was  gifted  with  a  calm 
nature  and  a  surprising  memory,  and  was  universally 
esteemed.  The  king  of  the  country  was  in  the  habit  of 
going  to  see  him,  and  requesting  his  blessing,  but  the 
gifts  showered  from  every  quarter  upon  the  saintly  man 
made  no  impression  upon  him.  In  1498,  when  he  was 
qddi,  he  reformed  the  administration  of  justice  by  curb- 
ing the  corruption  rampant  on  the  judges'  bench.  His 
judicial  duties  did  not  prevent  him  from  continuing  to 
teach,  and  expound  Sidi-Khalil's  Summary,  which  he 
had  introduced  into  the  Soudan,  together  with  Sahnun's 
Mudawwana.     He  made  the  sacred  pilgrimage  in  1510. 

Muhammad  ibn  'Abdal-Karim  al-Mughili  belonged  to 
Tilimsan.  He  was  a  man  of  bold  and  enterprising  char- 
acter, and,  by  his  uncompromising  fanaticism,  stirred 
up  massacres  of  the  Jews  which  drenched  the  Touat, 
where  he  was  a  preacher,  in  blood.  He  celebrated  this 
event  by  composing  a  poem  to  the  glory  of  the  Prophet, 
and  then  left  that  country,  and  passed  far  into  the  Soudan, 
26 


394  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

where  he  taught  Koranic  learning  and  jurisprudence  at 
Takeda,  Kachena,  and  Kano.  Hearing  his  son  had  been 
murdered,  probably  in  revenge,  by  the  Jews  of  the 
Touat,  he  started  on  his  way  back  to  the  Sahara,  but 
died  just  as  he  reached  the  end  of  his  journey.  He 
wrote  some  twenty  books  on  law  and  theology,  and 
also  left  a  correspondence  on  logic,  in  verse  and  prose, 
with  Jalal  al-din  Suyuti. 

Al- Aqib  ibn  'Abdallah  al-Ansammani  was  born  at 
Takeda,  a  Berber  village  on  the  Soudanese  frontier. 
He  was  the  pupil  of  Al-Marili,  and  also  attended  the 
teachings  of  Suyuti  at  Cairo.  His  facility  in  expressing 
himself  was  especially  admired.  He  died  after  the  year 
1543,  leaving  some  legal  treatises  behind  him. 

Ahmad  ibn  Ahmad  ibn  'Umar  (1522-1583),  son  of 
the  Marabout  Ahmad  ibn  'Umar  lately  referred  to, 
studied  theology,  logic,  and  diction,  and  his  erudition 
gained  him  a  high  place  among  the  learned  men  of  his 
period.  His  virtue  and  his  popularity  enabled  him  to 
address  sharp  remonstrances  to  persons  of  all  classes, 
and  even  to  the  princes  of  the  country.  He  was 
seized  with  serious  illness  one  day,  while  on  his  road 
to  Kaghou.  The  Sultan,  Ashkar  Da'iid,  went  every 
evening  to  spend  several  hours  with  him,  and  never 
slackened  in  his  attentions  till  the  sick  man  had  com- 
pletely recovered  his  health.  He  collected  a  consider- 
able library,  which  he  never  hesitated  to  place  at  the 
disposal  of  students.  In  1549  he  performed  the  journey 
to  Mecca,  and  passed  through  Cairo,  where  he  entered 
into  relations  with  all  the  learned  men  of  the  day,  but 
more  especially  with  Muhammad  al-Bakri,  the  Sufi,  who 
caused  him  to  write  down,  from  his  dictation,  the  litanies 
and  orisons  used  by  the  religious  confraternities  of  the 


AFTER  THE  FALL  OF  BAGDAd     395 

mystics.  He  began  works  on  various  legal  and  theo- 
logical points,  but  most  of  his  books  were  left  un- 
finished. 

The  most  singular  figure  of  this  period  is  that  of 
Muhammad  ibn  Mahmud  ibn  Abu  Bakr  (1524-1593), 
surnamed  Baghyo'o,  a  lawyer  of  Timbuctoo,  coming  of 
a  family  belonging  to  Wankoro,  whose  whole  life  was 
devoted  to  teaching.  He  loved  all  lovers  of  knowledge, 
and  showed  them  every  sort  of  kindness.  He  would 
willingly  lend  his  most  precious  manuscripts,  and  never 
asked  for  them  back,  however  rare  they  might  be.  He 
never  refused  a  book  to  a  student,  even  when  the  indivi- 
dual was  quite  a  stranger  to  him.  The  most  astonishing 
thing  about  this  man,  who  handed  about  the  books  in 
his  library  so  freely,  was  that  he  loved  them  passionately, 
and  spent  a  great  deal  of  trouble  and  money  in  buying 
them,  or  having  copies  made.  His  patience  as  a  teacher 
was  unfailing,  even  when  the  most  difficult  subjects  had 
to  be  communicated  to  the  slowest  intelligence.  He 
would  spend  whole  days  in  this  occupation.  His 
modesty  was  remarkable,  and  he  won  the  affection  of 
all  who  knew  him.  He  died  very  shortly  after  the 
capture  of  Timbuctoo  by  the  Moroccan  army,  under 
the  Pacha  Jaudar.  His  works  are  for  the  most  part 
marginal  comments  on  legal  books. 

Abu'l-' Abbas  Ahmad-Baba  (1556-1627)  of  Timbuctoo 
was  descended  from  Ahmad  ibn  'Umar.  He  was  born 
in  the  village  of  Arawan,  refused  to  submit  to  the 
Moorish  occupation  of  the  Soudan,  and  was  carried  to 
Morocco,  where  he  lay  four  years  in  prison.  His  libera- 
tion, at  the  command  of  the  new  Sultan,  Muley  Zidan, 
enabled  him  to  go  back  to  his  own  country,  and  to 
his  career  as  a  teacher  of  jurisprudence.     He  was  fifty 


396  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

years  old  when  he  wrote  his  Takmilat  al-dtbdj  (a  com- 
pletion of  Ibn  Farhun's  Brocade),  a  biographical  dic- 
tionary of  the  Malikite  savants,  which  Cherbonneau  has 
made  known  to  the  European  world,  and  from  which 
he  has  published  extracts.  His  other  works  deal  with 
law  and  grammar.  "  He  was  rigorously  just,"  writes  the 
Soudanese  historian  translated  by  Monsieur  O.  Houdas, 
"  even  towards  the  humblest  of  men.  Even  in  his  deal- 
ings with  sultans  and  emirs,  he  never  dissembled  as  to 
justice.  The  name  of  Mahomet  was  to  be  seen  written 
in  natural  white  characters  on  the  skin  of  his  right  fore- 
arm." 

'Abdal-Rahman  ibn  'Abdallah  al-Sa'di  (1596-1655  ?), 
who  was  born  at  Timbuctoo,  was  a  notary  at  Jenna, 
and,  from  1627,  acted  as  Imam  of  the  mosque  at  San- 
kora.  He  was  dismissed  some  ten  years  later,  and  re- 
turned to  his  native  town,  where  he  occupied  a  similar 
post.  He  ultimately  received  the  title  of  secretary  to 
the  Government,  and  was  entrusted  with  missions  to 
several  Soudanese  chiefs.  He  had  attained  his  sixty- 
first  lunar  year  when  he  completed  his  Tdrikh  al-SAddn 
(History  of  the  Soudan),  which  has  been  translated  by 
O.  Houdas. 

The  Tadhkirat  al-Nisydn,  also  translated  by  Houdas, 
is  a  biographical  dictionary  of  the  Pachas  of  Timbuctoo, 
from  1590  down  to  1750.  It  was  written  by  the  grandson 
of  Muhammad  ibn  al-Amin  ibn  Muhammad  Slid,  in 
1751.  The  author,  whose  proper  name  is  not  known, 
was  born  in  the  Soudanese  capital  in  1700.  The  care 
with  which  he  quotes  exact  dates  from  the  year  17 16 
onwards,  leads  us  to  suppose  that  when  he  was  sixteen 
he  began  to  keep  a  journal  of  some  kind.  The  bio- 
graphies  are  of   varying   lengths.      Some    give   nothing 


AFTER  THE   FALL  OF   BAGDAD  397 

but  a  few  dates,  others  are  very  much  worked  out,  full 
of  detail  and  of  information.  Those  of  contemporary 
personages  are  particularly  lively  and  animated. 


Anthologies  and  Popular  Works 

Jamal  al-din  al-Watwat  (Muhammad  ibn  Ibrahim) 
(1235-1318),  surnamed  al-Kutubi  (the  Bookseller),  and 
al-  Warrdq  (the  Paper-seller),  wrote  the  Ghurar  al-khasd'is 
al-wddiha,  an  anthology  in  sixteen  chapters,  on  eight 
virtues  and  eight  vices,  which  has  been  printed  at  Cairo, 
and  the  Mabdhij  al-fikar,  an  encyclopaedia  of  natural 
science  and  geography.  From  the  printing  presses  of 
the  Egyptian  capital  has  also  issued  the  Husn  al-tawassul 
(The  Good  Means),  a  treatise  on  the  art  of  letter-writing, 
by  Ibn  Fahd  (Shihab  al-din  MahmiJd),  of  Aleppo,  a 
secretary  in  the  Mameluke  Chancery  (i 246-1325),  in  the 
days  of  Baibars  ;  he  wrote  a  book  on  chaste  love,  called 
the  Mandsil  al-ahbdb,  some  manuscript  copies  of  which 
exist  in  Europe.  Muhammad  al-Bilbaisi  was  the  author 
of  a  work,  intermingled  with  verse,  in  which  he  starts  on 
the  supposition  that  thirty  guests,  belonging  to  different 
crafts,  are  sitting  round  a  table  and  exchanging  jokes. 
This  little  book,  which  is  called  al-Mulah  wd l-Turaf 
(Pleasantries  and  Curiosities),  and  in  the  language  of 
which  the  current  corruptions  of  the  Egyptian  dialect 
of  the  present  day  are  already  evident,  was  written  in 
1345.  Towards  the  same  period,  'Ala  al-din  "Ali  al- 
Baha'i,  a  man  of  Berber  blood,  but  of  Damascene  birth, 
who  died  in  1412,  was  compiling  his  Matdli  al-budUr 
(Rise  of  the  Full  Moon),  while  Shihab  al-din  Muhammad 
ibn  Ahmad  al-AbshIhI,  who  was  born  towards  1388, 
in  a  village  in  the  Fayyum,  and  died  about  1446,  was 


398  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

collecting  the  materials  for  his  Mustatraf  ft  kull  fann 
Mustazraf,  a  book  of  stories,  poems,  and  maxims, 
which  has  been  frequently  reprinted  at  Cairo,  and 
which  has  just  been  translated  into  French  by  G.  Rat. 

Shams  al-din  Muhammad  al-Nawaji  (1383  ?-i455),  a 
teacher  of  the  traditions  in  the  Shafi'ite  schools  of 
Cairo,  and  himself  a  poet,  left  a  collection  of  Baccha- 
nalian poetry,  entitled  Halbat  al-kuniait,  which  has  been 
frequently  reprinted.  Scattered  through  the  various 
European  libraries  other  manuscript  works  of  his  are 
to  be  found,  such  as  his  Kitdb  al-Sabilh  (The  Book 
of  the  Morning  Beverage),  anecdotes  and  verses  of  the 
period  of  the  'Abbasid  Caliphs,  his  Ta'hil  al-Gharib, 
a.  collection  of  Arabic  poetry  belonging  to  the  Moslem 
epoch,  and  arranged  according  to  the  alphabetical  order 
of  the  rhymes,  his  MardbV  al-ghisldn  (The  Gazelles' 
Pasturage),  which  deals  with  erotic  poetry,  as  does  his 
Khar  al-idhdr,  and  others,  besides  a  study  of  the  plagia- 
risms committed  by  the  author's  friend,  Ibn  Hijja  of 
Hamat. 

Da'ud  ibn  'Umar  al-Antaki  was  a  physician.  He  lived 
at  Cairo,  although,  by  origin,  he  belonged  to  Antioch. 
His  father  lived  in  the  village  which  contains  the 
tomb  of  the  famous  Habib  the  Carpenter.  He  him- 
self was  cured  of  congenital  rheumatism  by  a  Greek 
physician,  who  taught  him  his  own  tongue.  When 
questioned  on  any  scientific  subject,  he  would  im- 
mediately dictate  sufficient  matter  to  cover  ten  or  twenty 
pages.  Besides  works  devoted  to  medical  subjects,  he 
wrote  the  Tazyin  al-aswdq,  an  anthology,  in  prose  and 
verse,  on  the  subject  of  love.  He  died  blind,  at  Mecca, 
in  1599. 

'Abdal-Qadir  al-Baghdadi,  who  died  in  1682,  left,  under 


AFTER  THE   FALL  OF   BAGDAD  399 

the  title  of  Khizdnat  al-adab  (Treasure  of  Literature),  a 
commentary  on  the  quotations  to  be  met  with  in  RadJ 
al-din  al-Astarabadi's  {obiit  1287)  explanation  of  Ibn 
Hajib's  grammar,  the  Kdfiya,  which  contains  a  mass  of 
precious  information  as  to  the  early  days  of  literature, 
drawn  from  sources  no  longer  attainable  by  us. 

Al-'Abbas  ibn  'Ali  ibn  Nur  al-din,  a  Meccan,  wrote, 
when  at  Mecca,  and  on  his  return,  in  1735,  from  a  long 
journey  which  had  covered  twelve  years,  his  Nuzhat  al- 
Jalts  wa-Munyat  al-adib  al-anis  (Delight  of  the  Comrade 
and  Pleasure  of  the  Man  of  Letters  who  Cares  for  Society), 
a  book  of  travels,  with  details,  literary  and  biographical, 
which  carries  the  reader  from  Mecca  through  Egypt, 
Palestine,  Persia,  India,  and  Southern  Arabia.  This 
work  is  a  remarkably  erudite  compilation — a  real  antho- 
logy. It  is  dedicated  to  Ahmad  ibn  Yahyi  Khazindar, 
a  jurisconsult,  who  had  advised  the  author  to  travel,  so 
as  to  rid  himself  of  the  worry  caused  him  by  his  relations 
and  friends  in  his  native  town. 

The  Arabian  Nights 

If  there  be  one  book,  the  fame  of  which  overshadows 
all  others,  the  delight  both  of  childhood  and  of  ripe  age, 
it  is  the  anonymous  work  universally  known  under  the 
title  of  Kitab  Alf  laila  wa-laila  (The  Thousand  and  One 
Nights).  My  readers  are  acquainted  with  the  somewhat 
flimsy  construction  whereby  a  mass  of  tales  of  varying 
nature  are  gathered  into  the  limits  of  one  story.  A 
fictitious  monarch  in  Central  Asia,  determined  to  protect 
himself  against  the  craft  and  infidelity  of  women,  resolves 
that  the  wife  he  chooses  him  every  day  shall  be  put  to 
death  before  the  next.     The  two  daughters  of  his  Prime 


400  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Minister  devote  their  lives  to  save  their  country,  and  the 
eldest,  a  clever  woman,  versed  in  the  literature  of  fairies 
and  genii,  amuses  the  king  each  day  with  a  story,  the  end 
of  which  she  prudently  holds  over  till  the  following  night, 
thus  keeping  his  curiosity  in  suspense  till  he  finally  re- 
linquishes his  dark  design.  The  names  of  the  personages 
mentioned  in  the  prologue  are  all  Persian,  and  this 
sufficiently  indicates  the  source  from  which  the  work 
is  drawn.  The  Hazdr  Afsdna  (The  Thousand  Tales) 
was,  in  fact,  a  Persian  book,  translated,  as  the  historian 
Mas'udi  relates,  from  the  Pehlevi  into  Arabic  as  early  as 
the  third  century  of  the  Hegira.  "This  book,"  he  says, 
"  is  known  to  the  public  under  the  name  of  the  Thousand 
and  One  Nights  :  it  is  the  story  of  a  king,  his  vizier,  his 
daughter  and  his  slave,  Shirazad  and  Dinazad."  The 
remarkable  point  about  this  passage  from  the  worthy 
chronicler  is  the  very  ancient  and  purely  Persian  form 
of  the  names  of  the  two  female  characters,  who  were 
ultimately  to  become  Sheherazade  and  Dinarzade.  For 
.Shirazad  (the  Arabicised  form  of  Chihr-azad)  signifies, 
in  the  Persian,  "  noble  by  race,"  and  Dinazad  signifies 
"  noble  by  law."  As  the  names  became  corrupted,  their 
meaning  disappeared.  The  plan  of  the  work  was  possibly 
taken  by  the  Persians  from  India,  with  which  country 
they  had  been  in  contact  ever  since  the  great  Sasanian 
conquests  had  renewed  the  exploits  of  the  empire  of  the 
Achasmenians,  founded  by  Cyrus  and  Darius,  and  over- 
thrown by  Alexander. 

Into  this  evidently  artificial  framework  have  been  in- 
troduced a  variety  of  tales,  inserted  at  diverse  periods, 
which  critics  have  found  it  possible  to  determine.  To 
begin  with,  there  is  an  ancient  ground-work,  probably  of 
Indian  origin,  marked  by  much  indulgence  in  phantas- 


AFTER  THE    FALL   OF   BAGDAD  401 

magoric  description,  as  the  tale  of  the  Fisherman  and  the 
Genius.  Then,  at  Bagdad,  we  have  love  stories,  and 
adventures  in  the  bazaars,  which  end  in  the  appearance 
on  the  scene  of  Caliph  Harun  al-Rashid,  his  vizier 
Ja'far  the  Barmakide,  and  his  eunuch  Masrur,  keeping 
order  in  the  streets  of  his  capital  by  night.  Into  this 
cycle  of  popular  tales  some  literary  excerpts  have  slipped, 
such  as  the  story  of  the  Omeyyad  Caliph  'Umar  ibn 
'Abdal-'Aziz  and  the  poets.  A  third  and  more  recent 
group  is  formed  by  the  adventures  in  Cairo,  grouped 
about  the  characters  called  Ahmad  al-Danaf  and  Dalila. 
These  are  fantastic  and  supernatural  stories,  some  of 
which  would  appear  to  be  a  survival  from  ancient 
Egyptian  days.  Others,  such  as  the  story  of  Buluqiya, 
inserted  into  that  of  Hasib  Karim  al-din,  on  which 
Horovitz  has  recently  written,  are  decidedly  Jewish  in 
their  origin.  The  presence  of  these  latter  tales  has  even 
inspired  Chauvin  with  the  idea  that  one  of  the  editors 
of  the  Egyptian  arrangement  of  the  work  must  have 
been  a  converted  Jew.  A  further  and,  as  might  almost 
be  said,  a  forcible  introduction  into  this  collection  of 
popular  tales  (necessitated  by  an  adherence  to  the 
number  of  one  thousand  and  one,  to  which  the  pro- 
logue bound  the  compilers)  is  that  of  certain  romances 
of  chivalry,  such  as  the  story  of  'Umar  al-Nu'man,  and 
even  of  a  romance  of  adventure  by  sea,  the  story  of 
Sindbad  the  Sailor,  the  origin  of  which  goes  back  to  the 
palmy  days  of  trade  in  the  Persian  Gulf  and  the  Indian 
Ocean,  and  which  was  probably  composed  at  Bassora 
•during  the  tenth  century.  The  book,  as  we  now  possess 
it,  must  have  been  drawn  up  in  comparatively  recent 
times,  for  it  contains  the  stories  of  Qamar  al-Zaman 
and  the  jeweller's  wife,  of  Ma'ruf  and  his  wife  Fatima, 


402  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

both  of  them  belonging  to  the  sixteenth  century,  and 
also  the  tale  of  Abu  Qir  the  Dyer  and  Abu  Sir  the 
Barber,  the  most  modern  of  all. 

The  merit  of  having  introduced  European  readers  to 
the  Arabian  Nights  is  the  chief  claim  to  glory  of  Antoine 
Galland,  the  French  Orientalist,  who  accompanied  the 
Marquis  de  Nointel  on  his  embassy  to  Constantinople, 
and  made  two  subsequent  journeys  in  the  East.  His 
translation,  which  appeared  between  1704  and  1708,  was 
an  event  in  literature.  His  translating  labours  were 
carried  on  by  Petis  de  la  Croix  (1710),  by  Caussin  de 
Perceval  (1806),  by  Edouard  Gaultier  (1824),  Destains 
(1825),  and  Trebutien  de  Caen  (1828).  Nearer  our  own 
times,  after  Lane  (1841),  John  Payne  (1882-1884)  and 
Richard  Burton  (1885-1888)  have  given  two  complete 
English  versions,  the  first  in  thirteen,  and  the  second  in 
sixteen  volumes.  A  complete  French  translation,  which 
will  not  curtail  any  of  the  longwindedness  of  the 
original  text,  is  now  in  course  of  publication  in  Paris,  by 
Dr.  Mardrus.  The  editions  published  in  the  East,  at 
Bulaq  and  Calcutta,  have  only  furnished  the  matter  of 
the  first  nine  volumes  of  Payne's  edition,  and  the  first 
ten  of  Burton's.  The  text  of  these  works  was  completed 
from  other  manuscripts,  such  as  that  at  Tunis,  edited  by 
Habicht  at  Breslau  in  1835-1839,  and  continued  after 
his  death  by  Fleischer  (1842-1843),  and  that  brought 
back  to  England  by  Wortley-Montague,  which  was 
utilised  by  Burton.  In  1886,  H.  Zotenberg,  the  curator 
of  the  manuscripts  at  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  dis- 
covered the  Arabic  text  of  the  tales  of  Aladdin  and 
the  Wonderful  Lamp,  and  of  Zain  al-Asnam,  which  do 
not  appear  in  the  Oriental  editions  of  the  Arabian  Nights. 
A  doubt  had  even  been  expressed  as  to  whether  Galland 


AFTER   THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  403 

had  not  wholly  invented  them.  Zotenberg's  discovery, 
and  the  critical  and  historical  researches  he  conse- 
quently made,  with  the  object  of  proving  that  the  text 
he  had  brought  to  light  was  not  an  Arabic  translation 
of  Galland's  French  version,  have  demonstrated  that 
this  latter  Orientalist  had  consulted  a  version  in  the 
Syriac  dialect,  and  that  from  it  his  two  delightful  stories 
had  been  drawn.  The  sixth  supplementary  volume  of 
Burton's  translation  contains  the  tales  published  by  Dom 
Denis  Chavis,  a  Syrian  priest,  and  Jacques  Cazotte,  in 
1788-1789,  which  were  translated  into  German  in  1790 
and  1810,  and  into  English  in  1792. 

The  style  of  the  Arabian  Nights  is  absolutely  popular 
and  local.  It  contains  a  mass  of  expressions  which  have 
no  place  in  the  classic  Arabic,  and  which  vary  according 
to  the  provinces.  The  whole  text  of  the  story  of  Aladdin 
is  in  the  Syrian  dialect.  The  source  of  the  stories  of 
Arab  origin  is  easily  detected.  They  came  from  the 
madddh,  the  popular  story-teller,  who  wanders,  on  feast- 
days,  from  one  caf6  to  another,  and  is  the  anonymous 
author  of  the  greater  part  of  the  tales  of  which  the 
collection  is  composed. 

The  Romance  of  'Antar 

To  Al-Asma'i,  the  grammarian  of  the  close  of  the 
second  century  of  the  Hegira  (739-831),  is  ascribed  the 
authorship  of  the  great  romance  of  chivalry,  a  partial 
translation  of  which  was  issued  in  Enghsh  by  Terrick 
Hamilton  in  1820,  while  the  full  text  was  brought  back 
to  Paris  from  Constantinople  by  Cardin  de  Cardonne. 
Caussin  de  Perceval,  the  younger,  wrote  a  dissertation 
upon  it  in  {he  Journal  Asiatique,  and  gave  extracts  from 


404  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

it  in  the  Chrestomathies  Orientales  (1841).  Both  these 
Orientalists,  and  Cherbonneau,  Dugat,  and  Devic,  after 
them,  translated  fragments  of  the  work,  and  it  was 
published  in  full  at  Cairo,  in  1893.  It  is  quite  evident 
that  the  popular  tales  do  not  date  from  such  remote 
times,  and,  in  any  case,  so  many  centuries  have  elapsed 
since  those  days,  that  the  name  of  Al-Asma'i  can  be 
no  more  than  a  label  placed  by  the  professional  rdwt 
on  the  stories,  to  give  them  some  appearance  of  authen- 
ticity. In  its  present  form,  the  romance  goes  back  to 
the  days  of  the  Crusades.  The  Orientals  place  little 
value  on  so  unpretentious  a  literary  style,  but  Westerns 
recognise  in  it,  with  pleasure,  the  spirit  of  the  people, 
freed  from  such  ready-made  trammels  of  formulas  learnt 
at  school  as  appear  much  more  frequently,  indeed,  than 
may  be  imagined,  in  certain  passages  of  the  Romance 
of  Antar  (those  in  rhymed  prose  and  poetical  quotations). 
In  the  Romance  of '' Antar,  Caussin  de  Perceval  declares, 
"  may  be  found  a  faithful  picture  of  the  life  of  those  desert 
Arabs  on  whose  manners  and  customs  the  lapse  of  time 
appears  to  have  had  scarcely  any  effect.  Their  hospitality, 
their  vengeances,  their  loves,  their  generosity,  their  thirst 
for  pillage,  their  inherent  taste  for  poetry,  are  all  closely 
described.  There  are  accounts,  Homeric  in  their  way,  of 
the  ancient  Arab  wars,  the  chief  events  in  Arab  history 
before  the  advent  of  Mahomet,  and  the  deeds  of  the  antique 
heroes.  The  style,  varied  and  elegant,  occasionally  rising 
to  the  sublime,  and  the  characters,  powerfully  drawn  and 
worked  out  with  art,  combine  to  render  the  work  exceed- 
ingly remarkable.  It  is,  so  to  speak,  the  Arab  Iliad." 
If  we  allow  for  his  natural  enthusiasm  about  the  dis- 
covery he  had  made  in  Syria,  and  accept  the  Romance  of 
Antar  as  a  popular  work,  in  which  we  must  not  expect  any 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAD  405 

historical  qualities,  we  may  take  Caussin  de  Perceval's 
flaming  description  to  be  fairly  accurate.  The  book  is 
interesting  to  read,  and  considerable  pleasure  may  be 
found  in  following  the  knightly  adventures  therein  de- 
scribed. Take  it  all  in  all,  it  is  much  after  the  same 
fashion  that  Alexandre  Dumas  the  elder  wrote  the 
history  of  France.  Now  and  again,  the  story-teller  gives 
us  treasures  of  beauty,  as  in  the  famous  episode  of  the 
death  of  'Antar,  so  greatly  admired  by  Lamartine.  The 
desert  hero,  stricken  to  death  by  a  poisoned  shaft  sped 
by  the  hand  of  a  treacherous  and  implacable  foe,  re- 
mounts his  horse,  to  ensure  the  safe  retreat  of  his  tribe, 
and  dies,  leaning  on  his  lance.  His  enemies,  smitten 
with  terror  by  the  memory  of  his  prowess,  dare  not 
advance,  till  one  cunning  warrior  devises  a  stratagem 
which  startles  the  horse  out  of  its  marble  stillness.  The 
creature  gives  a  bound,  and  'Antar's  corpse,  left  unsup- 
ported, falls  upon  the  ground. 

The  Romance  of  the  Beni-Hilal 

In  that  charming  and  now  classic  work,  known  as  the 
Modern  Egyptians,  the  great  Arabic  scholar,  Edward 
William  Lane,  has  given  a  very  lifelike  picture  of  the 
public  story-teller,  sitting  on  a  bench  outside  the  cafe, 
with  all  the  neighbouring  townsmen  gathered  around 
him,  smoking  their  long  chibouks,  after  the  general 
habit  in  the  East.  He  also  gives  an  analysis  of  several 
of  the  romances  related  by  these  men,  among  them 
the  Romance  of  ^Antar.  Since  then  others  have  been 
published,  amongst  them  the  Romance  of  the  Beni-Hildl. 
The  subject  is  identical  with  that  of  the  Romance  of 
Abtj.  Zaid,  so  popular  in  Egypt.     In  spite  of  his  being 


4o6  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

the  possessor  of  ten  wives,  the  Emir  Rizq  had  only  two 
daughters,  and  one  son,  born  without  arms,  when  the 
Princess  AI-Khadra,  daughter  of  the  Sharif  of  Mecca, 
became  his  eleventh  wife,  and  presented  him  with  a 
negro  son,  because,  having  noticed,  while  on  a  journey, 
a  jet  black  bird  defending  itself  victoriously  against  a 
crowd  of  others,  she  had  wished  her  son  might  resemble 
the  brave  bird,  even  if  he  were  to  be  as  black  as  its 
plumage.  Her  prayer  was  granted,  but  the  father, 
prevented  by  pressure  on  his  comrades'  part  from  ac- 
knowledging his  paternity,  repudiated  Khadra,  and  sent 
her  home  to  her  father,  the  Sharif.  On  her  journey 
back  to  that  city,  she  met  the  Emir  Fadl,  chief  of 
the  tribe  of  Zahlan,  who  took  her  under  his  protection, 
and  adopted  her  son,  the  youthful  Barakat,  later  sur- 
named  Abu  Zaid,  who  grew  up  a  hero,  the  glory  of  his 
adopted  tribe.  Meanwhile  his  father,  who  still  loved 
Khadra,  had  withdrawn  himself  from  his  people,  and  was 
living  in  a  tent,  attended  by  a  single  slave.  At  a  later 
date,  the  tribe  of  which  he  had  been  chief,  defeated  by 
Barakat,  and  reduced  to  a  state  of  misery,  appealed  to 
his  powers,  and  besought  him  to  undertake  the  leader- 
ship once  more.  Thus  father  and  son  were  brought 
face  to  face,  neither  knowing  the  other.  The  Emir  Rizq 
was  thrown  from  his  horse,  and  would  have  been  slain 
by  his  own  son,  if  the  mother  had  not  interfered,  and 
revealed  the  real  tie  between  Rizq  and  Abu  Zaid. 
Father  and  son  recognised  each  other,  and  the  Emir 
Abu  Zaid  forgave  the  injury  done  him  by  his  tribe. 
In  the  great  Persian  epic,  the  Shdh-ndma,  Firdausi  intro- 
duces Rustam  and  his  son  Suhrab.  Here  the  father  kills 
the  son  in  single  combat,  and  does  not  recognise  him  till 
he  is  dead.   This  striking  episode  is  more  dramatic  than  the 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF  BAGDAd  407 

corresponding  one  in  the  Arabic  work.  The  anonymous 
author  of  AbA  Zaid  has  recoiled  from  the  conception  of 
a  parricide,  which  indeed  would  have  obliged  him  to 
bring  his  story  to  a  sudden  termination,  instead  of  con- 
tinuing to  dilate  on  the  feats  of  his  hero,  as  is  now  the 
case. 

Martin  Hartmann  has  shown  that  the  stories  of  the 
Beni-Hilal,  and  their  invasion  of  Northern  Africa 
itaghrtbat),  form  one  complete  cycle  of  legends,  con- 
nected with  the  modulated  chants  still  to  be  heard 
among  the  Bedouins  of  the  Libyan  Desert.  This  cycle 
comprises  eight  and  thirty  romances,  that  of  Abu 
Zaid  being  merely  the  last  of  the  series.  First  of  all 
comes  the  story  of  Jabir  and  Jubair,  the  ancestors  of 
the  Beni-Hilal,  dating  from  the  days  of  the  Prophet. 
Four  hundred  years  later,  we  come  to  that  of  Al-Khadra, 
mother  of  Abu  Zaid,  as  we  have  just  related  it,  and  then 
to  the  adventures  of  Shamma  and  of  Zahr  al-Ban,  in 
which  we  see  the  Emir  Sirhan  made  prisoner  by  Chris- 
tian corsairs,  on  his  way  back  to  his  own  country  by  sea, 
and  becoming  chief  swineherd  in  the  land  of  his  captors. 
His  wife,  Shamma,  goes  to  join  him  in  the  country  of 
the  Franks.  His  son,  Sultan  Hasan,  betakes  himself  to 
Yemen,  to  make  war  on  the  fire-worshippers — here  we 
have  a  memory  of  the  historic  times  when  the  Sas- 
anian  Persians  had  garrisons  in  Southern  Arabia — and  is 
aided  there  by  the  never-failing  Abu  Zaid.  He  pro- 
ceeds to  vanquish  the  monarch  of  India,  Jarad,  con- 
quers his  country,  and  leads  the  Beni-Hilal  back  to 
Africa.  The  continuation  of  the  story  relates  how 
Sultan  Hasan  and  Abu  Zaid  remove  into  the  province 
of  Najd,  because  there  is  nothing  left  to  eat  in  their 
own  country.     For  the  same  reason  the  Beni-Hilal  are 


4o8  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

constrained  to  quit  Najd,  and  move  westwards  ;  this  is 
what  is  properly  called  the  taghrtba  (Emigration  to  the 
West).  They  proceed  to  Tunis,  where  the  power  is 
held  by  Al-Zanati  Khalifa — a  name  in  which  we  easily 
recognise  the  Berber  tribe  of  the  Zanata.  Accounts  of 
fantastic  fights  with  the  Persians  and  with  Tamerlane, 
full  of  names  recalling  distant  memories  of  the  Crusades 
(such  as  Bardewil  and  Baldwin),  of  the  taking  of  Tangiers 
and  of  Morocco,  complete  this  cycle  of  adventures,  all 
more  or  less  connected  with  the  invasion  of  Northern 
Africa  by  the  Beni-Hilal,  during  the  eleventh  century  of 
the  Christian  era. 


Romance  of  Saif  Dhi>'l-Yazan 

Saif  is  the  son  of  a  King  of  Yemen.  His  mother,  a 
slave,  causes  him  to  be  exposed  in  the  desert.  Here  he 
is  miraculously  fed  by  a  gazelle  which  has  lost  her 
young,  is  found  by  a  hunter,  and  is  carried  away  to 
Abyssinia.  When  he  grows  up,  he  fights  with  the 
giant  Mukhtatif,  and  slays  him.  As  a  reward,  the  king 
would  give  him  his  daughter  Shama  to  wife,  but  the 
Prime  Minister  opposes  the  plan,  and  insists  that  the 
young  man  shall  first  bring  him  the  head  of  Sa'dun  al- 
Zanji,  the  terror  of  Abyssinia,  and  find  the  book  of  the 
history  of  the  Nile,  which  lies  in  an  inaccessible  country, 
protected  by  talismans.  He  is  presently  recognised  by 
his  mother,  who  desires  to  kill  him,  so  that  she  may 
reign  alone.  After  every  kind  of  wonderful  adventure, 
full  of  genii  and  sorceresses,  Saif  returns  to  his  own- 
country,  abdicates  in  favour  of  his  son,  and  lives  like  a 
patriarch  ;  but  undeserved  misfortunes  soon  bring  his 
life  to  a  close. 


AFTER  THE   FALL   OF   BAGDAd  409 

A  French  translation  from  the  Arabic  of  this  story, 
adorned  with  five  hthographs  by  Ali-Bey,  has  appeared 
at  Constantinople,  under  the  title  of  Sultan  Saif-Zuliazan 
(J.-J.  Wick,  1847,  368  pp.  8vo). 

The  Saif  al-Ttjdn  (Sword  of  the  Crowns)  is  the  story, 
divided  into  parts,  of  the  adventures  of  a  fabulous  prince, 
who  goes  from  one  country  to  another,  conquering  the 
world,  fighting  fairies  and  magicians  with  mighty  sword- 
thrusts,  and  warring  against  multitudinous  armies,  which 
are  all  converted  to  the  Moslem  faith,  by  the  interven- 
tion of  the  prophets  Abraham  and  Isma'il.  It  has  been 
translated  into  French  by  Dr.  Perron. 

The  Fables  of  Luqman 

The  matter  of  the  ancient  fables  known  to  us  as 
^sop's,  with  their  axioms  of  practical  morality  put  into 
the  mouths  of  animals,  has  passed  into  the  Arabic 
tongue,  and  is  ascribed  by  Arabs  to  the  sage  LUQMAN. 
Who  was  this  sage?  In  the  chapter  of  the  Koran 
entitled  Luqvidn,  we  read  :  "  We  have  given  wisdom  to 
Luqman,  saying  to  him,  '  Be  grateful  to  God,' "  and 
again  :  "  Luqman  said  one  day  to  his  son,  by  way  of 
admonition,  '  O  my  child,  associate  no  other  divinities 
with  God,  for  idolatry  is  a  tremendous  sin  ! '  " 

The  Sacred  Book  of  the  Moslems  contained  two 
allusions  to  this  legendary  personage,  whose  name  occurs 
twice  over  in  the  ancient  Arab  traditions.  The  first 
occasion  is  that  of  the  destruction  of  the  first  popula- 
tion of 'Ad,  in  the  south  of  the  Peninsula.  He  had  been 
sent  as  ambassador  to  Mecca,  to  crave  help  against  the 
drought,  when  the  people's  refusal  to  accept  the  prophet 

Hiid  was  avenged  by  the  appearance  of  a  black  cloud 
27 


410  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

which  ruined  the  whole  country.  His  piety  was  re- 
warded by  the  gift  of  a  long  life,  equal  to  those  of  seven 
generations  of  vultures.  The  second  time,  we  hear  of  him 
in  connection  with  the  game  called  Maisir,  which  con- 
sisted in  drawing  lots  with  arrows  for  the  parts  of  a 
camel  killed  at  the  general  expense.  His  passion  for  this 
pastime  had  become  a  proverb.  We  also  hear  of  his 
cunning  and  cleverness.  Nothing  more  appears  in  the 
pre-lslamic  traditions  concerning  him.  Yet  in  the  days  of 
Mahomet,  as  we  have  just  seen,  he  was  accepted  as  the 
incarnation  of  wisdom.  The  prophet  must  have  taken 
this  idea  from  the  belief  of  the  populations  round  him, 
for  the  scoffers  about  him  would  have  had  a  fine  oppor- 
tunity if  he  had  ventured  to  be  the  first  to  attribute  the 
wisdom  of  the  learned  to  an  individual  whose  celebrity 
rested  principally  on  his  perspicacity.  Luqman  was 
said,  indeed,  to  be  the  author  of  some  proverbs,  but  this 
honour  he  shared  with  many  others  of  both  sexes. 
These  fables,  like  other  works  which  passed  from  the 
Greek  into  the  Arabic,  were  translated  not  directly,  but 
through  the  medium  of  a  Syriac  version,  from  the  pen  of 
a  Christian,  Barsuma,  who  died  in  1316,  and  whose 
work  is  dated  1299.  There  is  another  collection  of  the 
same  kind,  which  bears  the  Syriac  title  oi  Matle  de  Soufos 
(^sop's  Fables).  From  these  is  drawn  the  Arabic 
version  ascribed  to  the  ancient  sage  Luqman,  of  whose 
wisdom  we  find  proof  in  the  very  pages  of  the  Koran. 


CHAPTER  XI 

THE   NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

In  Egypt,  Syria,  Tunis,  Algeria,  and  Morocco,  among 
Arabic-speaking  countries,  there  is  a  more  or  less  active 
stir  in  literary  matters,  denoted  by  the  publication  of  a 
number  of  newspapers,  and  evidenced  also  by  the  pro- 
duction of  various  works  in  book  form.  This  is  not  con- 
fined to  the  countries  in  which  Arabic  is  the  current 
language,  but  is  also  noticeable  in  certain  large  cities, 
where  it  is  familiar  only  to  the  learned,  as  in  Constanti- 
nople, and  in  others,  such  as  Paris,  where  it  is  utterly 
unknown,  except  to  a  few  scholars,  but  where,  thanks  to 
the  incessant  circulation  due  to  our  present  facilities  for 
communication,  certain  Oriental  writers,  whose  works 
have  been  published  in  the  city,  occasionally  meet. 

MIkha'il  ibn  Niqiila  ibn  Ibrahim  Sabbagh,  who  was 
born  at  St.  Jean  d'Acre  about  1784,  spent  his  youth  at 
Damascus,  served  the  French  during  the  expedition  into 
Egypt,  and  accompanied  the  army  when  it  retired  from 
that  country.  When  the  Turks  re-entered  Cairo,  his 
house  was  sacked,  his  goods  confiscated,  and  his  fortune 
engulfed.  He  was  appointed  copyist,  or  rather  repairer 
of  manuscripts,  at  the  Imperial  Library  in  Paris.  He 
had  formed  the  acquaintance  of  Silvestre  de  Sacy,  who 
made  a  French  translation  of  his  treatise  on  the  pigeon- 
post,  entitled  Musdbaqat  al~barq  wa'l-gkaindm,  and  be- 


412  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

stowed  on  it  the  poetic  title  of  La  colonibe  messagere,  plus 
rapide  que  I'eclair,  plus  prompte  que  la  nue.  At  a  later 
period,  this  little  treatise  was  still  further  popularised  by 
a  German  translation  due  to  Arnold,  and  an  Italian 
rendering,  the  work  of  Cataneo.  A  hymn,  addressed 
by  him  to  Napoleon  I.  on  the  occasion  of  the  birth  of 
the  King  of  Rome,  was  also  translated  by  Silvestre  de 
Sacy  in  1811.  When,  at  a  later  date,  the  aspect  of  politics 
underwent  a  change,  Sabbagh  wrote  a  congratulatory 
hymn  to  Louis  XVIII.  {Nashid  tahdni),  which  was  done 
into  French  by  Grangeret  de  Lagrange  in  1814.  He 
drew  up  some  notes  on  the  modern  forms  of  Arabic 
poetry  {inawaliya,  zajal),  which  were  in  the  possession  of 
Grangeret  de  Lagrange,  and  utilised  by  G.  W.  Freytag 
in  the  composition  of  his  work  on  Arabic  metres.  He 
died  in  June  1816,  leaving  the  manuscripts  of  a  history 
of  the  Arab  tribes  and  of  a  history  of  Syria  and  Egypt, 
and  a  grammar  of  the  Arabic  vulgarly  spoken  in  Egypt 
and  Syria  {Risdla  al-tdmma),  which  was  published  at 
Strasburg  by  Thorbecke  in  1886.  The  manuscript  of 
this  work,  at  one  time  in  the  collection  of  Etienne 
Quatremere,  has  passed,  with  all  other  papers  belonging 
to  the  famous  French  Orientalist,  into  the  possession  of 
the  Munich  Library. 

Sabbagh's  friend,  ElyOs  Boqtor  (Bocthor),  who  was 
born,  of  Copt  parents,  at  Suyut,  in  Upper  Egypt,  on 
12th  April  1784,  was  attached  to  the  headquarters  staff 
of  the  French  army  as  interpreter,  when  only  fifteen 
years  of  age.  In  1812  he  was  employed  to  translate 
Arabic  works  in  the  archives  of  the  Ministry  of  War,  and 
was  afterwards  attached  to  the  general  depot  of  the 
army  as  interpreter.  This  post  was  done  away  with  in 
1814.     In  1817  he  was  given  leave  to  deliver  a  course  of 


THE   NINETEENTH   CENTURY  413 

lectures  on  colloquial  Arabic  at  the  :^cole  des  Langues 
Orientales  vivantes  (1816),  was  appointed  professor  in 
that  establishment  (1821),  and  died,  when  barely  seven 
and  thirty,  on  26th  September  of  the  same  year.  He 
left  an  Arabic-French  dictionary,  published  in  1828- 
1829  under  the  auspices  of  Caussin  de  Perceval  the 
younger,  who  succeeded  to  his  professorial  chair. 

Nakoula  (Niqul^)  al-Turk,  the  son  of  Yusuf  al-Turk, 
was  a  member  of  the  Greek-Catholic  (Melchite)  Church. 
He  was  born  in  1763  at  Dair  al-Qamar,  where  dwelt  the 
Emir  Bashir,  chief  of  the  E>ruses,  and  now  the  seat  of 
the  Lebanon  Government.  His  family  was  of  Constan- 
tinopolitan  origin.  He  entered  the  service  of  the  Druse 
prince,  with  the  title  of  muallim  or  professor,  and  was 
highly  esteemed  as  a  poet,  at  the  little  court.  His  patron 
sent  him  into  Egypt  to  obtain  information  as  to  the 
plans  of  the  French,  and  he  remained  there  during  the 
whole  period  of  the  French  ascendency.  At  the  close  of 
his  life  he  became  blind,  and  his  daughter,  Warda,  wrote 
the  poems  he  composed  at  his  dictation.  He  died  at 
Dair  al-Qamar  in  1828.  His  Suminary  of  the  French 
Occupation  was  translated  by  Alexandre  Cardin,  and 
added  to  his  Journal  cT Abdurrahman  Gaba7^ti  {iZ -},?>)  ;  the 
full  text  was  published  and  translated  by  the  elder  Des- 
granges  in  1839.  The  ode  expressing  his  feelings  as  to 
the  conquest  of  Egypt  has  been  translated  into  French 
by  J. -J.  Marcel. 

Shaikh  Rifa'a  al-Tahtawi,  son  of  the  Shafi'ite  Rafi', 
and  descendant  of  the  famous  Santon  of  Tahta,  Ahmad 
al-Badawi,  who  fought  at  the  Battle  of  Mansura,  began 
his  career  as  a  pupil  in  the  al-Azhar  Mosque  at  Cairo, 
acted  as  chaplain  in  the  Egyptian  army,  with  the  title  of 
preacher,  and  was   afterwards   sent  to    Paris   with   the 


414  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

pupils  of  the  Egyptian  School  just  established  there, 
under  the  direction  of  'Abdi-Efendi  Muhurdar.  He 
ultimately  returned  to  Cairo,  and  spent  the  closing  years 
of  his  life  as  head  of  the  Translating  Office.  He  trans- 
lated a  number  of  works  from  the  French,  among  them 
La  Lyre  brise'e,  by  Agoub,  which  he  put  into  Arabic 
verse,  under  the  title  of  Nazm  al-"uqM  (1827).  His 
original  works  consist  of  his  account  of  his  journey  to 
France,  and  his  residence  there,  which  he  entitled 
Takhlis  al-Ibriz  (Purification  of  Gold),  and  some  patri- 
otic Egyptian  odes  {mansuma  misriyyd).  He  had  planned 
a  history  of  Egypt  from  the  most  remote  period,  after 
Arab  authors  and  others ;  of  his  Anwar  taufiq  al- 
j'alil,  only  the  first  volume,  carrying  the  story  down  to 
Mahomet,  ever  appeared. 

Shaikh  NAsiF  ibn  'Abdallah  AL-YAzut  (1800-1871), 
of  the  Lebanon,  who  was  born  at  Kafr-Shima,  was 
attached  in  a  professorial  capacity  to  the  American 
mission  at  Beyrout,  and  wrote  an  imitation  of  the 
famous  Lectures  of  Hariri,  under  the  title  of  Majmd 
al-balirain  (Confluence  of  the  Two  Seas),  which  was 
printed  at  Beyrout  in  1856.  This  work  had  been  pre- 
ceded by  an  anthology,  Majmii  al-adab.  A  treatise 
on  logic,  called  Qutb  al-Sinaa  (The  Pole  of  Art);  an 
Arabic  grammar,  called  Fad  al-Khitdb ;  a  commentary 
on  the  works  of  Mutanabbi,  entitled  al-  Arf  al-Tayyib ;  a 
treatise  on  Arabic  prosody,  'Iqd  al-jumdn ;  a  commen- 
tary on  the  Jdima,  dealing  with  the  art  of  versification, 
called  al-Ldmia  (1869) ;  the  Ndr  al-qird,  a  commentary  on 
verses  quoted  in  the  Mukhtasar ;  the  ^UqM  al-durar,  a 
commentary  on  the  Khizdna,  and  al-Jumdna,  are  his 
principal  productions.  He  wrote  a  letter  of  criticisms  to 
Silvestre    de   Sacy,   relative   to   his   edition    of    Hariri's 


THE   NINETEENTH   CENTURY  415 

Lectures,  which  has  been  translated  into  Latin  by  A.  F. 
Mehren.  A  selection  from  his  poems,  drawn  from  his 
unpublished  diwdn,  was  printed  at  Beyrout  in  1853, 
under  the  title  of  Nubdha,  and  within  two  years  a  selec- 
tion of  chronograms,  from  the  same  source  (tawdrtkh), 
likewise  appeared  in  the  same  place.  Yet  another  col- 
lection of  his  poetry,  entitled  Thdlith  al-qamarain  (The 
Third  Crescent),  was  published  at  Beyrout  in  1883. 

Ilyas  Faraj  Basil,  a  Maronite  from  Kasrawan,  in  the 
Lebanon,  collected  his  own  verses  into  a  volume  at 
Aleppo,  and  called  it  Majmit  al-azhdr  (Collection  of 
Flowers,  an  anthology).  This  was  printed  at  Jerusalem 
in  1879. 

Ahmad  Faris  ibn  Yusuf  ibn  Mansur  AL-ShidyAq, 
a  Maronite  converted  to  Islam,  who  died  about  1890,  was 
the  type  of  a  many-sided  and  prolific  writer,  with  the 
inner  lining  of  the  journalist.  His  family  name  signifies 
"  chorister-boy,"  although,  etymologically  speaking,  it  is 
closely  allied  to  the  French  "  archidiacre."  His  fancy 
was  attracted,  in  the  first  instance,  by  lexicographical 
questions,  and  his  inquiries  into  this  subject,  proving  the 
ingenuity  of  a  mind  quite  devoid  of  any  critical  power, 
were  carried  on  till  the  end  of  his  life.  His  Lafif  ft  kull 
mdnd  tarif  is  a  dictionary  of  Arabic  synonyms,  preceded 
by  an  abridged  grammar,  which  appeared  at  Malta  in 
1839.  Subsequently  came  his  Sirr  al-laydl  (Mystery  of 
the  Nights),  on  the  qalb  and  the  ibddl,  that  is  to  say,  on 
metathesis,  and  the  alteration  of  consonants  in  the  Arabic 
roots  ;  his  Jds-As  ''aid  'l-QdmAs  (The  Spy  on  the  Qdmils), 
a  criticism  bf  Firuz  -  Abadi's  dictionary,  and  his  al- 
Wdsita  ft  mdrifat  Ahwdl  Mdlta,  a  means  for  gaining 
acquaintance  with  the  conditiori  of  Malta,  and  the  dis- 
covery of  the  secret  of  European  science  (Tunis,  1866 ; 


4i6  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

Constantinople,  1881).  A  poem  in  honour  of  the  Bey  of 
Tunis  was  translated  into  French  by  Monsieur  G.  Dugat. 
But  his  caustic  wit  had  free  play  in  the  work  entitled 
al-Sdq  'aldl-sdq  (Leg  over  Leg),  or  the  life  and  adven- 
tures of  Fariac,  an  account  of  his  travels,  with  critical 
remarks  on  the  Arab  nations,  and  on  others.  This  was 
published  in  Paris  in  1855.  His  Shark  tabaV  al-haiwdn 
(Commentary  on  the  Nature  of  Animals),  which  deals 
with  the  habits  of  birds  and  quadrupeds  (Malta,  1841),  is 
more  or  less  borrowed  from  Buffon.  His  son,  Salim 
Faris,  has  collected  into  a  book,  called  the  Kanz  al- 
raghd'ib,  his  own  and  his  father's  various  literary  and 
scientific  contributions  to  an  Arabic  newspaper,  the 
Jazvd'ib,  founded  by  the  latter  at  Constantinople,  and 
subsequently  transferred  to  Cairo. 

Another  inhabitant  of  the  Lebanon,  Butrus  BiSTANt 
(1819-1883),  a  Maronite  who  went  over  to  the  Protestant 
Communion,  and  was  dragoman  to  the  United  States 
Consulate  at  Beyrout,  left,  in  his  MuMt  al-muhit  (That 
which  Surrounds  the  Ocean),  a  supplement  to  the 
Qdmiis,  which  was  found  very  us,el,ul  by  R.  Dozy, 
in  the  composition  of  his  Supplement  fiuse  Dictionnaires 
Arabes.  The  work  is  full  of  ,expressipns  and  meanings 
peculiar  to  the  various  Syrian  dialects.  His  Misbdh  al- 
Tdlib  (The  Student's  Lamp)  jdegls  with  Arabic  grammar; 
his  Kashf  al-hijdb  (The  Lifted  Veil)  is  on  arithmetic;  and 
another  great  work  is  an  Arabic  Encyclopcedia,  still  un- 
finished, which  is  entitled  Dd'irat  al-ma^drif.  He  also 
published  a  life  pf  As'ad  al-Shidyaq,  and  in  a  speech 
delivered  at  Beyrout  in  1859,  he  dealt  with  the  condition 
of  Arabic  literature  at  that  date. 

The  Maronite  Shaikh  RuSHAlD  Dahdah,  son  of  Ghalib, 
subsequently  decorated  with  thp  title  of  Count,  has  made 


THE   NINETEENTH   CENTURY  417 

his  name  by  the  publication  of  certain  Arabic  texts,  such 
as  that  of  the  Fiqh  al-lugha,  by  Abu  Mansur  al-Tha'alibi 
(Paris,  1 861)  ;  the  dtwdn  of  Ibn  al-Farid,  with  commen- 
taries by  Hasan  al-Burini  and  'Abdal-Ghani  al-Nabu- 
lust  (Marseilles,  1853 ;  Paris,  1855 ;  Bulaq,  1872) ;  a 
selection  of  remarkable  poems,  which  ma}'  be  used  as 
proverbs,  collected  by  him  under  the  title  of  Tarab 
al-masdini''  (Delight  of  the  Ears ;  Paris,  1861) ;  and  a 
miscellany  {Janiharat  tawdndr),  published  at  Paris  in 
1880. 

To  convey  some  idea  of  the  literary  movement  at 
Beyrout  during  the  course  of  the  nineteenth  century,  we 
must  also  quote  the  names  of  Khalil-Efendi  al-KhOrI, 
whose  collection  of  poems — occasional  verses,  written  on 
various  political  occasions  (^Zahr  al-rubd) — appeared  at 
Beyrout  in  1857;  Salim  Bisteris,  who  published  a  journal 
of  his  travels  in  Europe,  al-Nuzhat  al-Shahiyya  (Bey- 
rout, 1859) ;  Iskandar-Aghi  AbkAriyOs,  an  Armenian, 
whose  Raudat al-adab  (Flower-bed  of  Literature ;  Beyrout, 
1858)  contains  biographical  notices  of  the  pre-Islamic 
Arab  poets,  contemporary  with  Mahomet,  arranged  in 
alphabetical  order,  and  who  had  already  published,  at 
Marseilles,  in  1852,  the  Nihdyat-al-arab,  a  series  of 
notices  of  the  poets  and  prominent  personages  of  pre- 
Islamic  times ;  Jirjis-Efendi  Tannus  'Aun,  who  pub- 
lished a  technological  dictionary  at  Constantinople  in 
1884,  under  the  title  of  Durr  al-Makniin  (The  Hidden 
Pearl);  Sa'id  al-Khur1  al  -  Shartuni,  author  of  the 
Aqrab  al-niawdrid,  an  Arabic  dictionary  with  a  supple- 
ment (Beyrout,  1894),  and  of  the  Shihdb  al-Thdqib,  a 
manual  of  epistolary  style  (1884) ;  Yusaf  Ilyas  DiBS,  who 
taught  Arabic  grammar  without  a  master,  by  means  of  his 
Mughni'  l-mutd allim  {i^ib^)) ;  and  ARSANiYt>s  al-Fakha  iri, 


41 8  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

a  priest,  who  wrote  a  study  of  rhetoric,  entitled  Raud  al~ 
jindn  (1868  ?). 

In  1865  a  Syrian  priest,  named  Joseph  David,  printed 
an  elementary  French  grammar  in  the  Arabic  tongue, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  Dominicans  at  Mosul,  and  also 
a  collection  of  moral  subjects  treated  in  prose  and  verse, 
called  Tanzth  al-Albdb  (Recreation  for  the  Mind).  After 
he  became  Monsignor  Clement  Joseph  David,  he  pub- 
lished, in  the  same  town,  his  Tamrina,  an  Arabic  gram- 
mar (1886),  which  had  been  preceded,  in  1877,  by 
grammatical  exercises  entitled  Tamrin.  His  Tarwid  al- 
tulldb  (1867)  was  intended  to  imbue  the  minds  of  the 
youthful  neo-Assyrian  dwellers  on  the  banks  of  the 
Tigris  with  the  elements  of  the  science  of  arithmetic. 
He  died  in  1891. 

Father  Louis  Cheikho,  of  the  University  of  St.  Joseph, 
at  Beyrout,  has  helped  to  spread  the  knowledge  of  the 
Arabic  classics  by  various  publications.  His  Mukhtasar 
al-sarf,  as  its  title  indicates,  is  a  short  grammar  (Beyrout, 
1886);  his  Tarqiyat  al-Qdri' ,  a  collection  of  readings;  his 
MajdnV  I- Adah  is  a  huge  literary  anthology  in  six  volumes, 
with  a  commentary  or  notes,  in  four  more,  to  which  is 
added  a  preparatory  study  entitled  Mirqdt,  the  stepping- 
stone  to  the  Majdni.  The  ^Ilm  al-Adab,  in  which  he 
collaborated  with  G.  Eddd,  is  a  course  of  lectures  on 
belles-lettres,  and  on  literary  and  oratorical  composition. 
The  Shilard  al-Nasrdniyya  is  an  anthology  of  ancient 
Arabic  poets,  most  of  them  pre-Islamic,  and  the  editor 
endeavours  to  demonstrate  that  they  were  also  Christians. 

The  mysteries  of  the  faith  of  the  Nusairis  or  Ansaris 
have  been  unveiled  by  Sulaiman-Efendi  of  Adana,  in  his 
al-Bdkhura  al-Sulaimdniyya,  a  little  volume  translated  into 
English,  almost  in  its  entirety,  by  E.  Salisbury. 


THE   NINETEENTH   CENTURY  419 

History,  and  notably  the  history  specially  connected 
with  that  mountainous  province,  has  been  much  culti- 
vated in  the  Lebanon.  Monsignor  Istifan  al-Duwaihi 
of  Ehden,  in  the  region  of  the  Cedars,  above  Tripoli, 
wrote  in  the  course  of  the  seventeenth  century,  as  we 
have  already  remarked,  a  history  of  the  Maronites, 
which  was  published  at  Beyrout,  in  1890,  by  Rashid 
al-Khuri  al-Shartuni,  to  whom  the  public  was  already 
indebted  for  a  manual  of  epistolary  style,  the  Nahj 
at  -  murdsala  (1877).  Yet  another  Maronite,  Shaikh 
TANNtis  ibn  Yusuf  al-Shidyaq,  collected  the  annals  of 
the  Christian  families  of  the  mountains,  in  his  Akhbdr 
al-A'ydn  (1859).  Khalil  Sarkis  wrote  a  history  of  Jeru- 
salem (1874).  At  Mosul,  a  Syrian  priest,  Louis  Rah- 
mani,  wrote,  in  1876,  an  epitome  of  ancient  history, 
another  of  the  history  of  the  Middle  Ages,  in  1877,  and 
one  of  Sacred  History,  in  1883.  Monsignor  Cyril 
Behnam  Benni,  Archbishop  of  Mosul,  wrote  a  book 
there,  on  the  truths  of  the  Catholic  Church,  called  the 
Durra  al-nafisa  (1867). 

Amongst  the  poets,  mention  must  be  made  of  Butrus 
Karama,  a  Christian,  who  died  about  1850,  and  wrote 
muwashshahdt :  of  Rizq-AUah  Hassun,  a  free-thinker, 
who  died  about  1880,  having  lived  for  many  years  in 
England,  where,  for  some  time,  he  published  an  Arabic 
newspaper ;  his  Nafathdt,  which  largely  consist  of  trans- 
lations from  Kryloff's  Fables,  and  were  dedicated  to  the 
Emir 'Abdal-Qadir,  were  printed  in  London  in  1867:  of 
Yusuf  al-Asir,  born  at  Saida  about  1815,  and  died  at 
Beyrout  in  1890,  who  studied  in  the  Al-Azhar  Mosque, 
and  who,  in  spite  of  his  deep  knowledge  of  the  Arabic 
tongue,  was  neglected,  all  his  life,  by  learned  men  bent 
on  amassing  wealth  and  honours  ;  he  was  the  author  of 


420  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

muwashshahdt,  and  of  a  controversy  on  grammar,  entitled 
Radd  al-Shahni  li'l-sahni,  which  was  printed  at  Constanti- 
nople in  1874:  of  Yusuf  Dibs,  appointed  Maronite  Arch- 
bishop at  Beyrout  in  1870,  who  was  still  alive  in  1897,  and 
has  written  popular  poetry,  as  also  did  Nicolas  Naqqash, 
who  was  born  at  Saida  in  18 17,  and  died  at  Tarsus  in 
1855,  having  written  a  play  called  Arzat  Lubndn  (The 
Cedar  of  Lebanon)  :  and  finally,  of  Amin  al-Jundi,  a 
poet  belonging  to  the  town  of  Hims,  who  was  educated 
at  Damascus,  and  died  in  his  native  town,  in  the  year 
1840,  leaving  a  collection  of  poems,  printed  at  Beyrout,  in 
1883,  in  a  volume  also  containing  verses  by  other  authors. 

At  Damascus  we  note  Salim-Efendi  'Anhuri,  whose 
Badat  Mdriit,  pieces  of  verse  which  form  the  third  part 
of  his  complete  poems,  appeared  at  Beyrout  in  1886. 
Under  the  title  of  Kanz  al-Ndzim  (The  Poet's  Treasure 
and  the  Lost  Man's  Torch),  he  has  sent  forth  a  collection 
of  classic  expressions  arranged  in  subjects.  At  Aleppo 
we  must  not  overlook  Faransis  Marrash  al-Halabi, 
whose  poems  bear  the  name  of  Al-Mirdt  al-husjid. 
Another  poet  of  Aleppo,  Philip  Basil  Benna,  lived  at 
Constantinople.  Three  odes  with  which  various  inci- 
dents inspired  him — one  written  in  gratitude  for  the 
Prince  de  Joinville's  assistance  in  putting  out  the  con- 
flagration at  Perain  1839,  another  in  honour  of  Frederick 
William,  King  of  Prussia,  and  a  third  rendering  homage 
to  Abdal-Majid — have  been  translated  into  German  by 
Otto  Rohrig. 

Sulaiman  ibn  Ibrahim  Sula,  of  Aleppo,  sang,  in  lyric 
numbers,  the  generous  deeds  of  the  Emir  'Abdal- 
Qadir,  whose  bold  resolution  saved  numbers  of  Chris- 
tians during  the  Syrian  massacres,  in  i860.  His  diwdn 
was  printed  at  Constantinople  in  1895. 


THE   NINETEENTH   CENTURY  421 

Christian  literature  is  represented  by  the  Mawd'is,  or 
Collected  Sermons,  of  Monsignor  Yiisuf  Ilyas  Dibs, 
Archbishop  of  Beyrout  (1874),  and  controversy  by  al- 
Ditrr  al-manzAm,  refutations  of  questions,  and  answers, 
bearing  the  signature  of  Monsignor  Maximus  Mazlum, 
and  printed  in  a  convent  on  the  Lebanon,  in  1863.  The 
department  of  legal  study  claims  the  Shark  raid  al- 
faraid,  dealing  with  the  division  of  inheritances,  by  Yusuf 
al-Asir  (1873). 

Damascus,  like  Beyrout,  has  had  a  flourishing  period 
of  literary  activity.  Mahmud  Efendi  Hamza  has  pub- 
lished a  series  of  works  on  legal  subjects  :  the  Qawaidal- 
auqdf,  rules  in  force  as  to  property  in  mortmain  (1871), 
al-Fard'id  al-bahiyya,  on  jurisprudence  (1881),  al-Tariqat 
al-wddiha,  on  the  establishment  of  the  preferable  proof 
(1883),  and  Tahbtr  al-maqdla,  a  study  on  delay  and 
caution  (1884).  'Ala  al  -  din  Efendi  'Abidin  wrote  a 
treatise  on  jurisprudence,  entitled  Hadiyya  al-ald'iyya,  in 

1882.  In  the  department  of  philosophy,  Ahmad  al-Barbir 
produced  an  imaginary  dialogue  between  Air  and  Water, 
which  he  entitled  Maqdma,  or  Lecture,  in  1883.  Muham- 
mad-Efendi  al-Qalbaqji  wrote  a  book  on  the  knowledge 
of  man's  inner  nature  as  mirrored  in  his  eyes,  called  Kashf 
al-Akhldq,  in  1883;  and 'Umar-Efendi  al- Attar,  who  had 
published  his  Risdla,  on  the  object  of  logic,  in  1870,  fol- 
lowed it,  in  1884,  by  his  Fard'id  fawd'id,  on  the  meaning 
of  the  Unity  ;  his  Risdla  bahiyya,  on  the  origin  of  the 
world;  and  his  Tahqtqdt  bahiyya,  on  the  signification  of 
existence. 

Muhammad  ibn  Ahmad-Efendi  al-Iskandarani  pub- 
lished his  study  of  Natural  Science  in  the  same  city  in 

1883,  under  the  title  of  Asrdr  al-rabbdniyya,  and  Da'ud- 
Efendi  Abu    Sha'r  wrote  a  treatise  on  hygiene,  which 


42  2  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

he  called  Tuhfat  al-ikhwdn.  The  funeral  oration  of  the 
Emir  'Abdal-Qadir  was  pronounced  there  by  Muham- 
mad ibn  Muhammad  al-Mubarak  al-Jaza'iri  {Laiiat  al- 
Damair,  1883) ;  and  Muhammad-Efendi  'Abidin  pub- 
lished a  bio-bibliographical  work  e.n'ixWtdL^Uqud  al-lddli 
(1885).    _ 

Spiridion  Sarruf,  a  member  of  the  Orthodox  Church, 
and  a  Damascene  by  origin,  besides  issuing  a  number  of 
liturgical  books  published  from  the  Greek  texts,  com- 
piled a  Sacred  History  from  the  Creation  down  to  the 
first  century  after  the  birth  of  our  Lord  (Jerusalem, 
1855),  and  wrote  an  abridgment  of  the  Catechism  (i860). 
Ya'qijb  Jirjis  'Awwad,  a  Maronite  priest,  wrote  an 
epitome  of  dogmatic  theology  {Khtddsat  al-bardhin  al- 
IdhMiyya,  1873) ;  and  Sim'an  Ishaq  al-Qudsi,  a  book 
on  the  pontificate  of  St.  Peter  and  his  successors,  called 
Riydsat  Butrus  (1870). 

Under  the  impulse  of  the  reforms  initiated  by  the 
successors  of  Muhammad  'All,  Egypt,  like  Syria,  has 
been  the  scene  of  most  remarkable  activity  in  the  matter 
of  literary  production.  The  knowledge  of  European 
science  imparted  in  the  schools  of  the  country  has 
induced  a  considerable  amount  of  industry  among 
translators,  which  we  will  not  follow  here,  limiting  our 
attention  to  original  work.  The  activity  noticeable  in 
this  country,  far  from  being  purely  scientific,  has  per- 
haps been  more  literary  than  anything  else.  For  during 
this  period  the  official  printing  presses  at  Bulaq,  and 
private  enterprise  in  the  city  of  Cairo,  have  been  placing 
the  classics  of  Moslem  learning  within  the  reach  of  all 
men.  Beside  the  great  names  of  former  days,  we  come 
on  those  of  poets  of  our  own,  who  have  communicated 
the  fruits  of  their  inspiration  to  the  public.    'Ali-Efendi 


THE   NINETEENTH   CENTURY  ,  423 

Darvish  (1867),  with  his  IsKdr;  Ibrahim-bey  Marzuq, 
who  wrote  al-durr  al-bahi  al-mansilq  (1880),  and  died 
at  Khartum  in  the  Soudan  iij  1866  ;  Mahmud  ibn  Mu- 
hammad al-Qusi  (1892),  Shaikh  of  the  Sa'diyya  at  Don- 
gola,  who  wrote  the  praises  of  the  Prophet  in  the  vulgar 
tongue ;  Muhammad  ibn  Ism^'il  ibn  'Umar  Shihab 
al-din  al-Hijazi,  who  was  of  Meccan  origin,  and  was 
corrector  at  the  Government  printing  works  from  1836 
to  1849 — he  was  the  author  of  a  diwdn  which  appeared 
in  1861,  and  of  the  Saftnat-al-Mulk  (1865).  He  himself 
died  in  1857 ;  Amin  ibn  Ibrahim  Shamil,  whose  al- 
Mubtakar  comprises  five  lectures  and  twenty-six  odes 
composed  at  Liverpool  in  1868,  and  devoted  to  the 
description  of  man;  and  'Ali  Abu'1-Nasr  (died  1880), 
complete  this  pleiad  of  neo-Egyptian  poets.  The  art 
of  writing  popular  songs,  so  despised  by  the  literary 
men  of  bygone  days,  has  excited  the  fancy  of  Muham- 
mad 'Uthman  Jalal  (died  i6th  January  1898),  who  also 
translated  La  Fontaine's  Fables  into  Arabic  verse ;  and 
that  of  Hasan  Husnt,  whose  diwdn  bears  the  title  of 
Thamardt  al-Haydt  (Fruits  of  Life)  ;  and  of  Ibn  al- 
Fahham. 

The  history  of  Egypt  has  been  written  by  'Abdal 
Rahman  al-Jabarti  al-'Aqili  (1756-1825),  whose  ''Ajd'ib 
al-dthdr  was  printed  at  Bulaq  in  1880,  and  translated 
out  of  the  Arabic  into  French  by  four  Egyptian  savants 
in  collaboration.  His  journal,  kept  during  the  French 
occupation,  Mazhar  al-  taqdis  (an  autograph  copy  is 
now  at  Cambridge),  was  translated  into  French  in  1835, 
by  Alexandre  Cardin,  Dragoman  and  Chancellor  of  the 
Consulate-General  of  France  at  Alexandria.  This  learned 
man  was  born  at  Cairo,  of  a  family  belonging  to  Zaila^ 
on  the  Somali  coast.     He  was  the  son  of  a  learned  and 


424  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

highly  venerated  man,  Shaikh  Hasan,  and  was  sent  to 
study  at  the  Al-Azhar  Mosque.  When  he  was  eleven 
years  old  he  knew  the  Koran  by  heart,  and  before  he 
was  twenty  he  had  lost  his  father.  He  was  a  man  of 
handsome  physique,  and  of  noble  and  serious  character. 
General  Bonaparte  summoned  him  from  his  property  at 
Abyar,  to  which  he  had  withdrawn ;  he  was  appointed  a 
member  of  the  Divan,  and  earned  much  respect  from  the 
Military  Chiefs.  After  the  evacuation  he  devoted  him- 
self entirely  to  learning.  One  of  his  sons  was  murdered 
in  1823,  on  the  road  to  Shubra,  near  Cairo,  and  'Abd 
al-Rahman  wept  him  so  inconsolably  that  he  lost  his 
sight,  and  survived  him  only  a  very  short  time. 

Al-Jabarti's  history  was  put  into  mnemotechnic  verse 
by  Abu'1-Suud  Efendi  (1877),  under  the  title  of  Minhat 
aU  al-asr ;  the  same  author  had  undertaken  a  universal 
history,  the  prolegomena  and  first  part  of  which  ap- 
peared at  Cairo  in  1872.  Besides  this,  and  preparatory 
to  his  historical  labours,  he  translated  the  history  of  the 
Kings  of  France  out  of  the  French  {Nasm  al-lddli\  and 
also  translated  the  history  of  Egypt  under  Muhammad 
'All.  The  foundation  of  the  reigning  Khedivial  family, 
and  the  events  of  the  reign  of  Muhammad  'All,  inspired 
Muhammad-bey  Farid  with  the  idea  of  his  Bahjat  al- 
Taufiqiyya,  dedicated  to  Tewfik-Pacha  (1891)  ;  the  ele- 
mentary history  of  Eastern  countries  has  been  given  an 
Arabic  form  by  Sayyid-Efendi  'Azrai  {al-masdlik  al-ibti- 
daiyya,  1894). 

Jurji  Zaidan  (1834 -1890),  a  Syrian  Christian,  has 
attracted  attention  by  his  historical  novels  {Riwdydt, 
Fatdt  Ghassdn),  and  has  written  a  history  of  Egypt 
during  the  period  of  the  Mahdi's  power  in  the  Soudan. 
'Abdallah  Fikri-pacha,  who  was  Minister  of  Education, 


THE   NINETEENTH   CENTURY  425 

and  whose  posthumous  works  in  prose  and  verse  were 
published  by  his  son  in  1898,  was  born  at  Mecca,  where 
his  father  was  in  command  of  the  Egyptian  troops 
occupying  that  city.  In  1882  he  was  accused  of  treason, 
but  proved  his  innocence,  and  retired  into  private  life. 
He  was  a  delegate  to  the  Congress  of  Orientalists  at 
Stockholm  in  1889.  He  left  a  collection  of  sentences 
and  proverbs,  arranged  in  alphabetical  order  {Nazm 
al-lddlt) ;  his  various  works  have  been  collected  and 
published  by  his  son. 

The  French  Orientalist,  Jean-Joseph  Marcel,  who  was 
with  General  Bonaparte  in  Egypt,  where  he  rendered 
valuable  service  to  the  expedition,  and  acted,  on  his  re- 
turn to  Paris,  as  director  of  the  imperial  printing  works, 
unhesitatingly  attributes  to  Shaikh  Muhammad  al- 
Mahdl  al-Hafnawi  (1737-1815)  the  authorship  of  a  collec- 
tion of  tales,  the  title  of  which — that  of  the  first  volume, 
at  all  events — is  Tuhfat  al-mustaiqiz  al-dnis  ft  nuzhat  al- 
inustantni  al-nd' is  (The  Present  to  the  Awakened  Bachelor 
for  the  Delight  of  the  Somnolent  Sleeper),  which  Marcel 
translated  under  the  title  of  Contes  du  Cheykh  el-Mohdy. 
This  Shaikh  was  born  at  Cairo.  His  original  appellation 
was  Hibatallah.  His  father,  Epiphanios  Fadlallah,  was 
steward  to  the  kdshif  (provincial  governor)  Sulaiman, 
at  whose  entreaty  he  became  a  Moslem,  studied  at  the 
Al-Azhar  Mosque,  became  secretary  to  the  Divan,  and 
held  that  post  during  the  French  occupation.  He 
was  fond  of  coming  to  taste  the  strong  waters  offered 
him  by  the  young  member  of  the  Institute  of  France, 
and  confided  the  manuscript  of  the  tales  to  him,  with- 
out consenting  to  admit  he  had  viTitten  them.  At  a 
later  date  he  accompanied  Tossoun-Pacha,  the  son  of 
Muhammad  'Ali,  on  his  campaign  against  the  Wahhabis, 

2S 


426  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

but  after  the  defeat  in  the  Defiles  of  Safra,  promptly  be- 
took himself  back  to  Cairo.  He  was  appointed  Shaikh  al- 
Islam  in  1812.  These  tales  are  imitations  of  the  Arabian 
Nights.  The  hero  of  the  stories,  'Abdal-Rahman,  finds 
himself  a  rich  man  at  his  father's  death.  Having  no 
taste  for  pleasure,  he  gives  himself  up  to  study,  and  de- 
sires, when  three  years  have  elapsed,  to  enjoy  the  fruits 
of  his  learning,  and  let  others  enjoy  them  also.  He  calls 
his  slaves,  friends,  and  relations  together,  each  in  their 
turn,  and  relates  short  stories  to  them.  But  he  has  the 
fatal  gift  of  sending  his  hearers  to  sleep,  and  bringing 
misadventure  on  himself,  on  every  occasion.  After  a 
series  of  unlucky  incidents,  he  is  even  taken  for  a  mad- 
man, and  shut  up  in  the  Maristan,  the  lunatic  asylum  at 
Cairo.  But,  still  ruled  by  his  mania,  he  continues  to 
gather  a  circle  of  good-natured  listeners  about  him,  and 
to  delight  them  by  his  stories.  Of  these  latter  tales  the 
two  last  volumes,  presumably  finished  in  1783,  consist. 
Doubt  has  been  expressed  as  to  whether  J. -J.  Marcel  did 
not  add  something  of  his  own  composition  to  the  canvas 
originally  furnished  him  by  Shaikh  al-Mahdi,  but  as  the 
same  insinuation  was  made  against  Galland,  who  has 
been  completely  cleared  of  it,  there  is  no  reason  why 
any  further  attention  should  be  paid  to  this  imputation. 

The  historical  topography  of  Cairo,  on  which  the 
French  school  kept  up  in  the  Egyptian  capital  by  the 
Republic  zealously  labours,  owes  the  Khitat  Taufiqiyya, 
a  renewed  form  of  Maqrizi's  classic  work,  to  'Ali-pacha 
Mubarak,  Minister  of  Public  Instruction,  who  died  in 
1893.  He  also  brought  the  metric  system  within  the 
reach  of  the  populace  {al-Mtzdn,  1892).  'Ali-pacha 
Mubarak  was  an  interesting  type  of  the  savant  of  his 
day.     He  was  born  at  Birinbal  in  1823,  and  began  life 


THE   NINETEENTH   CENTURY  427 

in  the  army.  He  studied  in  Paris,  and  took  part  in  the 
Crimean  War,  with  the  Egyptian  contingent  attached  to 
the  Turkish  army.  In  1870  he  founded  the  Viceregal 
Library  at  Cairo,  and  thus  rendered  a  mass  of  most 
interesting  old  manuscripts  accessible  to  the  public. 
Accounts  of  European  travel  have  been  published  by 
Hasan-Efendi  Taufiq,  who  made  a  tour  in  Germany  and 
Switzerland  {Rasd'il  al-bushrd,  1891)  ;  by  Ahmad  Zaki, 
secretary  to  the  Khedive,  who  was  delegated  to  the 
Congress  of  Orientalists  held  at  Geneva  {al-Safar  ilal- 
Mutamar,  1894)  ;  and  by  Muhammad  Amin  Fikri-bey 
{Irshdd  al-alibbd,  1892).  Geography  claims  the  names  of 
Mahmud  Rashad  {al-durHs  el-jagrdfiyya,  1889);  Mus- 
tafi  'Alawi-bey  {al-thamardt  al-wdfiya,  1873)  ;  Sayyid- 
Efendi  Taufiq  {al-nafahdt  al-  Abbdsiyya,  1894);  and  Shaikh 
Muhammad  ibn  'Umar  al-Tunisi,  who  was  born  in 
1789,  studied  at  the  Mosque  of  Al-Azhar,  took  a  journey 
to  Wadai  and  Darfur,  and  wrote  an  account  of  it,  which 
has  been  translated  into  French  by  Dr.  Perron.  He 
died  at  Cairo,  where  he  held  a  post  in  the  School  of 
Medicine,  in  1857. 

In  addition  to  numerous  translations  from  European 
languages,  which  do  not  fall  within  the  province  of  this 
work,  the  exact  sciences  have  been  cultivated,  as  regards 
arithmetic,  by  'All  'Izzat-Efendi  (1869),  Shafiq-bey  Man- 
sur  (1887),  Muhammad  -  Efendi  Hamid  (1894),  and 
Mahmud-Efendi  Mujir  (1870);  Mustafa-Efendi  Shauql 
(1871)  has  written  on  the  metric  system  ;  Isma  il-Efendi 
Mar'i(i887),and  the  above-mentioned  Muhammad-Efendi 
Hamid,  on  algebra ;  Ibrahim  al-Dasuqt  'Abdal-Ghaffar, 
who  died  in  1883,  directed  the  publication  of  a  treatise 
on  trigonometry  in  1853  ;  and  Hasan-Efendi  HusnJ 
has    published    a   work    on    cosmography    {al-usM   al' 


428  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

wdfiya,  1890).  Mahmud-pacha  al-Falaki,  the  Minister 
{d.  1885),  to  whom  the  impulse  given  to  these  studies 
is  specially  due,  wrote  a  memorandum  on  the  Arabic 
calendar  in  pre-Islamic  times,  which  was  translated  by 
Ahmad  Zaki  (Bulaq,  1888).  The  Turkish  marshal, 
Ghazi  Muhammad  Mukhtar-pacha,  Commissioner-Ex- 
traordinary in  Egypt,  has  sought  repose  after  his  struggle 
with  the  Russians  in  Armenia,  in  the  publication  of  his 
Tauftqdt  al-ilhdmiyya,  a  concordance  of  the  Moslem,  Gre- 
gorian, and  Coptic  calendars,  down  to  the  year  1500  of 
the  Hegira,  with  historical  ephemerides,  down  to  the 
year  1309  of  the  same  era,  and  of  his  Riydd  al-Mukhtdr 
(Flower-garden  of  the  Elect),  a  treatise  on  the  assess- 
ment of  time. 

As  regards  the  subject  of  grammar,  Muhammad 
'Ayyad  al-Tantawi,  whose  fate  led  him  to  St.  Petersburg, 
where  he  taught  Arabic,  and  where  he  died  in  1871, 
left  a  treatise  on  the  vulgar  tongue,  which  was  pub- 
lished at  Leipsic  in  1848. 

To  Physics,  Chemistry,  and  Natural  Science,  Dr. 
Muhammad-Efendi  Kamil  al-Kafrawi,  and  Muhammad 
ibn  Sulaiman  al  -  Tunis!,  have  devoted  their  powers. 
The  former  wrote  al-jawdhir  al-badfa  (1888),  and 
Qalaid  al-hisdn  (1892),  and  the  latter  was  the  author  of 
the  Tahiti  (1843).  Mahmud  Anis  wrote  on  the  culture 
of  cotton  (1892),  and  we  note  a  succession  of  physician 
authors,  attended  by  a  train  of  chemists.  Dr.  Hasan- 
pacha  Mahmud  treated  the  subject  of  internal  patho- 
logy in  his  Khiddsat  al-Tibbiyya  (1892)  ;  Dr.  Muhammad 
'Alawi-bey  deals  with  ophthalmology  in  his  Nukhbat  al- 
' Abbdsiyya  (1893)  ;  Dr.  Ahmad  Hamdi-bey  imparts  teach- 
ing as  to  the  nature  of  simulated  diseases  in  his  Tuhfat 
al-  Abbdsiyya  (1895)  ;    while    the    Durar  al-badriyya,  by 


THE   NINETEENTH   CENTURY  429 

Muhammad    Badr-bey    al-Baqli    (1893),    describes    the 
modern  remedies,  and  serves  to  complete  the  ''Iqd  al- 

jumdn,  Mustafa  Hasan  Kassab's  Pharmacopoeia,  printed 
in  1834,  and  as  a  continuation  of  the  Nafahdt  al- 
riyddiyya,  a  treatise  on  pharmaceutical  compositions, 
followed  by  a  Franco-Arabic  dictionary  of  medical  and 
pharmaceutical  terms,  by  "Ali-Efendi  Riyad  (1872). 

The  Qudwat  al-far  bi-aslihi,  a  treatise  on  love  of  the 
fatherland,  by  'Ali  Fahmi  (1873),  may  be  classed  as  a 
philosophical  vi^ork  ;  and  H^mza  Fathallah's  Al- Uqiid 
al-durriyya  (1891),  on  the  Unity  of  the  Godhead,  as  also 
his  BdMrat  al-Kaldm,  on  the  rights  and  duties  of 
Moslem  women,  which  was  written  for  the  Congress  of 
Orientalists  at  Stockholm  (1889),  under  the  head  of 
biographies  of  the  Prophet  and  works  on  the  Moslem 
faith.  To  these  may  be  added  Sayyid-Efendi  Mu- 
hammad's Durra  al-  Abbdsiyya,  on  the  articles  of  the 
faith  and  pious  practices  of  the  Moslem  religion  (1894); 
and  the  Tcirikh  al-Khulafd  al-rdshidtn,  a  genealogy  of 
the  Prophet,  and  of  his  descendant  Sultan  'Abdal-Majid, 
by  Ahmad  Hijazt  Ismail  (1862).  The  works  bearing 
the  name  of  Muhammad  Qadri-pacha,  who  died  on 
2ist  November  1888  {Murskid  al-hatrdn,  a  treatise  on 
obligations  and  contracts,  according  to  the  Hanafite 
rite,    1891),    and    of    Muhammad    Rif'at    {al- Durra   al- 

yaitma,  Lessons  on  the  Egyptian  Penal  Code,  1894), 
must  be  ranged  under  the  category  of  Moslem  law. 

Christian  literature,  as  cultivated  by  the  Copts,  justly 
claims  the  "^Iqdal-Anfas,  a  sacred  story,  by  Wahbi-Efendi 
Tadurus  (1881).  A  monk  of  the  Convent  of  St.  Barmus 
has  written  an  ecclesiastical  history  of  Egypt,  al-Kharida 
al-Naftsa,  the  first  volume  of  which  appeared  in  1883. 
In  the  Moslem  West,  Tunis  and  Algiers  can  boast  a 


430  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

few  Arabic  publications.  In  the  first-named  city,  Sliaikh 
Abu'l-thana  Mahmiid  Qabadu  has  composed  a  poem 
in  honour  of  the  Prophet  and  his  family,  the  Kharidat 
'iqd  al-la'dlt  (1871),  and  written  other  poetry,  which  has 
been  collected  by  his  pupil,  Shaikh  Abu  'Abdallah  Mu- 
hammad al-Sanusi  (1876-1878).  In  1868,  General  Khair 
al-din  al-Tunisi,  Minister  to  the  Bey  of  Tunis,  and 
subsequently  Grand  Vizier  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  pub- 
lished his  Aqwavt  al-masdlik,  a  description — historical, 
political,  and  administrative — of  the  European  States, 
with  geographical  notices  of  various  parts  of  the  earth. 
Muhammad  al-Sanusi,  to  whom  we  have  referred  above, 
published,  in  1892,  his  IstitWdt  al-bdrisiyya,  scenes  in 
Paris  during  the  year  1889,  and  has  written,  under  the 
title  of  Matld  al-dardri  (Rising  of  the  Planets),  some 
inquiries  into  the  conformity  of  Moslem  jurisprudence 
with  the  law  of  real  estate  (1888). 

At  Algiers,  Abraham  Daninos  published,  in  1848,  an 
Arabic  drama,  Nuzhat  al-Mushtdq  wa-ghussat  al-  Ushshdq; 
in  the  same  year.  Shaikh  Muhammad  ibn  Ahmad  al- 
Tijani  wrote  his  Tuhfat  al-ariis,  three  chapters  dealing 
with  the  subject  of  women  and  marriage  ;  Muhammad 
Qabih  produced  a  comic  poem,  the  Risdlat  al-abrdr, 
which  relates  the  adventures  of  two  Arab  students  in 
the  negro  village  of  Oran — this  has  been  translated  and 
published  by  Delphin  (1887);  Si  Ahmad  walad  Qadi, 
Bach-aga  of  Frenda,  has  imparted  his  impressions  of  a 
journey  to  Paris  in  a  volume  entitled  al-Rihlat  el-qddiyya 
— praises  of  France,  and  warnings  addressed  to  the  desert 
nomads  (1878).  In  1852,  Sayyid  Sulaiman  ibn  Siyam 
had  told  the  story  of  his  journey  to  France  in  his 
Rilda.  To  conclude,  it  would  be  impossible  to  speak 
of  the  Arabic  literature  of  Algiers  without  noticing  the 


THE   NINETEENTH   CENTURY  431 

name  of  our  great  and  doughty  adversary,  the  Emir 
Muhyt  al-din  'Abdal-Qadir  al-Hasani,  whose  Dhikrd 
'l-Aqil  (Reminder  to  the  InteUigent)  has  been  translated 
into  French  by  G.  Dugat,  and  whose  Mihtary  Regula- 
tions, Wishdh  al-Katd'ib,  were  published  and  translated 
by  F.  Patorni  in  1890.  The  Iktirdth,  which  deals  with 
the  respect  of  the  Moslem  faith  for  the  rights  of  women, 
and  is  the  work  of  Muhammad  ibn  Mustafa  ibn  al- 
Khoja  Kamal,  an  Algerian,  was  translated  by  Arnaud 
in  1895. 

Shaikh  Muhammad  Abu  Ra's  al-Nasiri  (1751-1823),  of 
Mascara,  was  a  learned  man  who  produced  several  his- 
torical works,  among  them  a  description  of  the  Island 
of  Jarba,  which  was  translated  and  published  at  Tunis 
in  1884,  by  Exiga  (Kayzer).  He  lost  his  parents  at  an 
early  age,  and  had  a  most  unhappy  childhood.  Notwith- 
standing this,  he  learnt  the  alphabet  without  any  in- 
structor, and  amassed  sufficient  knowledge  to  enable  him 
to  give  reading  and  writing  lessons  to  law  students.  He 
taught  at  Mascara,  and  gathered  many  pupils  about 
him,  to  whom  he  always  dictated  from  memory.  In 
1790  he  went  on  the  pilgrimage,  and  paid  visits  to  Cairo 
and  Tunis.  On  his  return  he  acted  as  qddi  and  preacher 
until  1796.  In  1800  he  was  at  Algiers,  went, on  to  Fez, 
and  departed  again,  in  1811,  to  Mecca,  where  he  met 
some  learned  men  of  the  sect  of  the  Wahhabis.  He 
recognised  their  principles  as  being  similar  to  those  of 
the  Hanbalites,  with  rules  of  practice  differing  from 
those  adopted  by  the  four  orthodox  rites.  His  Voyages 
Extraordinaires  ('Aja'ib  al-Asfar),  translated  by  Arnaud, 
are  a  commentary  on  his  own  poem  on  the  capture  of 
Oran  by  Muhammad  ibn'Uthman  (1792). 

In    Morocco,  Abu'l-Qasim   ibn  Ahmad  al-Ziyani  has 


432  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

given  the  history  of  that  country  from  1631  to  1812,  in 
his  Tarjumdn  al-Murib,  published  and  translated  by 
Monsieur  O.  Houdas.  The  work  was  written  at  Tilim- 
san,  where  the  author,  then  Governor  of  Oudjda,  had 
been  constrained  to  take  refuge,  after  having  been  de- 
feated by  the  Bedouins.  This  history  was  carried  down 
to  a  later  date  by  Ahmad  al-Nasiri  al-Salawi,  born  1834, 
died  1897,  who  was  Custom  House  employe  in  various 
ports  along  the  coast,  and  made  use,  in  composing  his 
work,  of  various  official  documents  {Al-Istiqsd).  Mu- 
hammad ibn  al  -  Tayyib  al  -  Qadiri  wrote  and  printed 
his  Nashr  al-Mathdni,  a  biographical  dictionary  of  the 
eleventh  and  twelfth  centuries  of  the  Hegira,  at  Fez. 

At  Mecca,  Ahmad  ibn  Zaini  Dahlan,  who  performed 
the  functions  of  Shaikh  al-Ulamd  in  the  Holy  City,  and 
died  there  in  1886,  printed,  in  1885,  a  political  history  of 
Islamism,  entitled  al-futAhdt  al-isldmiyya. 

In  the  Moslem  East,  far  away  in  Hindustan,  Mu- 
hammad Siddiq  Hasan  -  Khan  Bahadur  (al  -  Qanuji  al- 
Bukhari)  (1833-1889),  Nabob  of  Bhopal  by  his  marriage 
with  the  Begum  of  that  State,  a  vassal  of  England,  who 
had  inherited  the  throne,  caused  the  following  works  to 
be  printed  at  Constantinople  :  al-Bulgha,  an  Arabic  lexico- 
graphy, followed  by  a  bibliography  of  Arabic,  Turkish, 
Persian,  and  Hindu  dictionaries  (1879);  al- Alain  al- 
Khaffdq,  on  the  formation  and  derivation  of  Arabic 
words ;  the  Luqtat  al-Ajldn,  an  historical  miscellany  ; 
followed  by  the  Khabi'at  al-Akwdn,  a  history  of  the 
various  religions  ;  al-Iqlid  li-adillat  al-ijtihdd  wd l-taqlid, 
a  treatise  on  jurisprudence  ;  al-Tariqa  al-Muthld,  advice 
for  finding  out  the  principles  of  law  without  assistance ; 
and  the  Nuzl  al-Abrdr,  on  religious  morality  (1884); 
and,  at  Bulaq,  the  Nashwat  al-Sakrdn  (The  Drunkard's 


THE    NINETEENTH    CENTURY  433 

Awakening,  1879) ;  the  Ghusn  al-bdn,  on  rhetoric  (1879) ; 
the  HusM  al-mdinM  (Obtaining  of  what  one  Desires), 
on  the  principles  of  law ;  the  Fath  al-baydn,  a  com- 
mentary on  the  Koran,  in  ten  volumes  (1884)  ;  the  Husn 
al-Uswa  (The  Fair  Support),  devoted  to  the  authentic 
words  of  God  and  His  Prophet  touching  woman  (1884)  ; 
al-Raudat  al-nadiyya,  a  commentary  on  a  legal  work, 
entitled  al-Durar  al-bahiyya,  by  Muhammad  al-Yamani 
al-Shauqanl  (Bulaq,  1879)  ;  and  Fath  al-  alldm,  a  com- 
mentary on  Ibn  Hajar's  Bulilgh  al  -  mardm  (Buliq, 
1885).  At  Bombay,  Muhammad  Karama  al-Ali  al- 
DihlawJ,  who  died  in  1832,  printed  a  life  of  the  Prophet 
Mahomet. 

Far  northwards,  at  Kazan,  a  learned  man,  named 
Mirza  Muhammad  'All  ibn  Muriammad  Kazhem-beg, 
published,  in  1833,  an  essay  on  Arabic  literature,  entitled 
al-Tuhfat  al-haqira ;  and  Shihab  al-din  ibn  Baha  al-din 
al-Ghazzani  al-Marjani  wrote  the  history  of  the  Khans 
of  Transoxania,  which  appeared  in  1864. 

In  Paris,  Abu  Kabi'  Sulaiman  al-Harai'ri,  who  was 
assistant  Arabic  master  at  the  Ecole  des  Langues  Orien- 
tales  Vivantes,  published  Shaikh  Ahmad  ibn  al-Mu'az- 
zam  al-Razi's  twelve  Lectures  (1865) ;  wrote  a  treatise 
on  meteorology,  physics,  and  electro-plating  {Risdla  ft 
hawddith  al-jaww,  1862) ;  and  delivered  a  Fatwd,  or 
judicial  decision  as  to  whether  Moslems  may  eat  the 
flesh  of  animals  killed  by  Christians — this  with  the  object 
of  making  it  easier  for  his  co-religionists  to  travel  in  Euro- 
pean countries.  He  wrote  a  treatise  on  coffee  in  i860, 
and  described  the  Universal  Exhibition  of  1867  to  his 
fellow-countrymen  in  hSs'' ard al-badd i  al-dmni.  In  Paris, 
too,  the  Lebanon  Shaikh,  Yusuf  Butrus  Karam,  published 


434  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

his  reply  to  attacks  levelled  at  himself  and  other  Chris- 
tians of  the  Lebanon,  and  another  response  to  further 
objections  (1863).  In  Constantinople,  the  capital  of  the 
Turkish  Empire,  where  Arabic  is  a  classic  tongue,  of 
which  the  influence  on  the  Turkish  language  constantly 
increases  because  of  the  scientific  terms  borrowed  from 
it,  concurrently  with  those  of  French  origin,  which  are 
formed  from  the  Greek,  Arabic  works  appear,  but  they 
are  necessarily  fewer  and  less  important  than  those  pub- 
lished in  countries  where  the  language  is  popularly  spoken. 
Muhammad  ibn  Muhammad  Hasan  Zafir,  whose  birth- 
place is  Tripoli  in  Barbary,  has  printed  his  Anwar  al- 
Qudsiyya  (Sacred  Lights),  on  the  rules  and  precepts  of 
the  religious  order  of  the  Shadhiliyya,  in  the  city  of  the 
Sultan  (1885).  Shaikh  Muhammad  Abd'l-Huda  Efendi 
al-Siyadi,  a  man  of  Aleppan  origin,  affiliated  to  the 
religious  order  of  the  Rifa  iyya,  is  a  mystic  poet.  He 
published,  in  1881,  Al-faid  al-Muhammadi  (The  Grace  of 
Mahomet  and  the  Succour  of  the  Prophet),  a  collection 
of  his  own  literary  compositions,  and  has  devoted  his 
Qilddat  al-jauhar  (Necklace  of  Jewels,  1885)  to  the  life 
and  praises  of  his  master.  Shaikh  Ahmad  al-Rifa"i.  Texts 
are  sent  from  the  most  distant  corners  of  the  Moslem 
East  to  be  printed  at  Constantinople.  Most  of  the  works 
of  the  Nabob  of  Bhopal,  Muhammad  Siddiq  Hasan 
Khan,  appeared  there  ;  and  there,  too.  Shaikh  'Abd  al- 
Shakfjr  Rahman  'Ali-Khan,  of  Bendelkend  in  Hindu- 
stan, has  laid  his  Abniyat  al-Isldm  (Edifice  of  Islamism), 
based  on  the  traditions  of  the  Prophet  (1882),  before 
the  public.  Sayyid  'Abd  al-Gha£far  ibn  'Abd  al-Wahid 
al-Akhras,  who  was  born  at  Mosul  after  the  year  1805, 
and   died    at    Bassora    in    1874,    left    a    diwdn   entitled 


THE    NINETEENTH    CENTURY  435 

al-Tirdz  al-anfas  (The  Most  precious  Embroidery),  which 
was  printed  in  1888.  He  was  dumb.  Da'ud-pacha,  the 
last  of  the  independent  governors  of  Bagdad,  sent  him 
to  India  to  undergo  an  operation  ;  but  when  the  doctors 
told  him  he  would  have  to  risk  his  life,  he  replied  :  "  I 
will  not  sell  my  all  for  the  sake  of  a  part  of  myself,"  and 
took  his  way  back  to  Bagdad.  Da'ud-pacha  found  a 
historian  of  his  own  in  the  person  of  Arain  ibn  Hasan 
al-Hulwani,  a  professor  at  the  Mausoleum  of  the  Pro- 
phet at  Medina,  whose  Matdli^  al-suild,  lithographed  at 
Bombay  in  1887,  carries  us  through  the  last  victorious 
struggles  of  the  Porte  with  the  Mameluke  masters  of  the 
ancient  capital  of  the  'Abbasid  Caliphs.  The  Imam  of  the 
Shafi'ites  at  Medina,  Al-Hajj  Ahmad-Efendi,  published 
his  Al-Khutab  al-wdziyya  (Sermons  and  Driblets  of 
Gold  from  the  Pulpit),  a  collection  of  sermons  for 
Fridays  and  Moslem  feast-days,  and  his  Hiddyat  al- 
murtdb  (Guide  for  Doubtful  Passages),  a  treatise  on 
Koranic  exegesis,  dealing  with  obscure  passages  in  the 
sacred  book,  in  the  year  1889.  From  Tripoli,  in  Syria, 
Shaikh  Husain-Efendi  Jisri-Zade  sends  his  Risdla 
Hamidiyya,  on  the  truths  of  the  Moslem  faith,  a 
controversial  work  directed  against  the  disciples  of 
modern  philosophers,  for  publication  (1890).  From 
Yaman  comes  the  Maqdina  adabiyya  (Literary  Lecture), 
under  which  title  the'Ulema  Muhammad  Hilal-Efendi, 
President  of  the  Court  of  Appeal  in  that  country,  has 
collected  the  judicial  correspondence  between  himself 
and  the  judges  of  the  inferior  courts  within  his  juris- 
diction, and  his  correspondence  with  the  various  Attor- 
neys-General (1889),  followed  by  a  Turkish  translation ; 
and  his  '' Iqd  al-jumdn  (Necklace  of  Pearls),  a  panegyric 


436  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

of  the  family  of  Osman,  with  the  predictions  of  the 
ancient  sages  of  Islam  concerning  it.  A  Moor,  Shaikh 
'Abdal-Qadir  ibn  'Abdal-Karim  al-Wardifi,  has  written 
and  published,  also  at  Constantinople,  an  elegy  on  the 
death  of  Sharif  Muley  Ahmad,  uncle  of  Muley  Hasan, 
Emperor  of  Morocco,  who  found  a  refuge  at  Constan- 
tinople, and  died  there  in  i^ 


CHAPTER   XII 

THE   PERIODICAL    PRESS 

A  VERY  flourishing  branch  of  contemporary  literature  is 
that  consisting  of  the  newspapers  and  reviews  pubUshed 
in  the  Arabic  tongue,  which  appear  not  only  in  the  coun- 
tries in  which  that  tongue  is  spoken,  but  even  in  lands 
where  Arabic  is  studied  and  known  only  as  a  learned 
language,  and  in  some  where  it  is  utterly  unknown,  save 
to  the  masters  and  students  in  a  few  schools  specially 
devoted  to  the  study  of  Oriental  languages,  but  which 
do  harbour  a  certain  number  of  Arabic -speaking  emi- 
grants, and  possess  printing  works,  the  compositors  of 
which  are  able  to  use  the  naskht  character.  In  Egypt, 
where  the  brief  French  occupation  had  given  birth  to 
two  newspapers  in  the  French  language,  the  Courrier 
d' Agypte  and  the  Decade  Egyptienne,  Muhammad  'Alt 
founded  the  official  organ  of  his  Government,  the 
Waqdi''  al-misriyya  (Egyptian  Events),  on  20th  Novem- 
ber 1828.  It  appeared  at  Cairo  two  or  three  times 
a  week  in  Arabic  and  Turkish.  After  seventy-three 
years  of  a  most  chequered  existence,  this  sheet,  the 
first  newspaper  printed  in  the  East,  after  General  Bona- 
parte's original  attempts,  and  concerning  which  Reinaud 
wrote  in  1831,  that  it  was  "an  undertaking  of  which 
no  other  specimen  exists,  so  far,  in  any  Moslem  country," 
is  still  published  three  times  a  week  in  Arabic.    Thirty 


438  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

years  later,  Khalil  al-Khuri,  a  Syrian  litterateur,  founded 
the  Hadlqat  al-Akhbdr  (Garden  of  News),  a  bi-weekly 
journal,  the  first  issue  of  which  appeared  on  ist  January 
1858,  at  Beyrout. 

Towards  the  year  i860,  the  official  organ  of  the 
Regency  of  Tunis  was  founded,  under  the  title  of 
al-Rd'id  al-Timist.  In  Paris,  about  the  same  time, 
Sulaimfin  al-Hara'iri  was  publishing  a  paper  called  al- 
Barjis,  in  which  the  romance  of  'Antar  began  to  appear 
as  a  feuilleton.  In  July  of  that  same  year,  Ahmad 
Faris  al-Shidyaq  began  to  publish  ihe  Jawd'ib,  a  weekly 
paper,  at  Constantinople.  After  a  long  and  brilliant 
career  there,  this  journal  was  removed,  about  ten  years 
ago,  to  Cairo.  Any  spare  time  at  the  printing  offices 
of  ihe  Jawd'ib  was  utilised  for  the  publication  of  various 
Arabic  classics,  drawn  from  Constantinopolitan  libraries. 

At  Damascus,  the  chief  city  of  the  province  of  Syria, 
for  which  country  the  Ottoman  authorities  have  revived 
the  ancient  name  of  SArijd,  an  official  journal,  written 
in  Turkish  and  Arabic,  has  been  appearing  since  1865  ; 
and  since  1866  the  Governor-General  of  the  province 
of  Aleppo,  in  the  southern  districts  of  which  Arabic  is 
spoken,  has  caused  an  official  organ  to  be  published 
there,  under  the  name  of  al-Furdt  (The  Euphrates). 

In  1869,  the  Jesuit  Fathers,  who  had  then  just  added 
a  branch  at  Beyrout,  soon  to  become  the  Catholic  Uni- 
versity of  St.  Joseph,  to  their  college  at  Ghazir  on  the 
Lebanon,  began  to  publish  a  weekly  review  called  al- 
Bashir.  To  this  they  added,  in  1898,  a  bi-monthly  scien- 
tific review,  al-Mashriq  (The  Orient).  To  compete  with 
this  publication,  Butrus  al  -  Bistani  founded,  in  the 
middle  of  1870,  a  bi-monthly  review  called  the  Janna 
(The  Garden) — this   disappeared  in   1886;    ihe  Junaina 


THE    PERIODICAL    PRESS  439 

(Little  Garden),  which  only  lasted  for  three  years ;  and 
a  bi-monthly  review  called  al- Jinan;  while  the  Moslems 
of  Beyrout,  desirous  of  possessing  an  organ  of  their 
own,  founded  the  Thamardt  al-fun-tln  (Fruits  of  Science), 
a  weekly  journal,  in  1874.  About  the  same  time  the  pub- 
lication of  the  Taqaddum  (Progress)  was  commenced. 
To  this  paper  the  most  active  young  writers  in  Syria 
contribi:ted,  among  them  Iskandar  al-Azar  and  Adib 
Ishaq,  who  died  very  young,  and  carried  to  his  tomb 
the  brilliant  hopes  his  first  literary  efforts  had  raised. 
The  Thamardt  al-funun  represented  the  reactionary,  or 
stationary — the  attitudes  are  identical — spirit  of  the 
Moslem  population.  The  Taqaddum,  true  to  its  title, 
opened  its  columns  to  all  the  modern  ideas.  On  i8th 
October  1877  Khalil  Sarkis,  son-in-law  of  Butrus  Bistani, 
founded  the  Lisdn  al-hdl  (Tongue  of  the  Situation), 
which  began  by  being  a  bi-weekly  journal,  but  has 
been  published  daily  since  1894.  As  this  paper,  which 
was  obliged  to  guide  its  political  utterances  so  as  to 
be  agreeable  to  the  Ottoman  Government,  also  main- 
tained a  due  reserve  as  to  the  numberless  religious  con- 
fessions which  flourish  on  Syrian  soil,  the  independent 
Maronites  felt  the  need  of  a  newspaper  of  their  own, 
and  founded  one,  the  Misbdh,  in  1880.  The  Protestants 
published  the  Kaukab  al-subh  al-munir  (Brilliant  Star  of 
the  Morning),  which  has  ceased  to  appear,  and  the 
Nashra  al-usbu'iyya  (Weekly  Publication),  which  is  still 
in  existence.  For  a  short  time  the  Orthodox  Greek 
community  possessed  an  organ,  called  the  Hadiyya 
(The  Gift),  which  has  now  disappeared.  To  counter- 
balance the  reactionary  influence  of  the  Thamardt 
al-funAn,  the  Government  published,  on  and  after  22nd 
March  1886,  a  bi-weekly  sheet  bearing  the  name  of  the 


440  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

city  in  which  it  appeared,  Beyrout.  This  became  the 
official  organ  of  the  new  province  established  in  1888, 
of  which  Beyrout  is  the  capital. 

The  development  of  industrial  and  commercial  wealth 
which  coincided  with  the  reign  of  Isma  il-pacha  gave  a 
fresh  impetus  to  journalism,  and  during  that  period  the 
following  journals  appeared  : — 

Al-Addla  (Justice),  a  daily  paper,  founded  in  1897, 
and  edited  by  Muhammad  al-Khayyami,  noted  for  its 
unwavering  fanaticism,  and  its  attacks  on  all  foreign 
elements.  It  was  printed  in  three  columns  and  on 
only  one  side  of  the  sheet.  The  same  editor  published, 
from  1896  onwards,  and  assisted  by  Muhammad  Shar- 
batli,  a  weekly  review,  entitled  al-Nahj  al-qawim  (The 
Straight  Path).  Al-Isldm  (Islamism)  is  the  organ  of 
the  old  Moslem  party,  which  centres  in  the  Mosque  of 
Al-Azhar.  It  is  a  journal  devoted  to  science,  history,  and 
literature,  founded  in  1893  by  Ahmad  "All  al-Shadhill, 
and  which  used  only  to  appear  on  the  first  day  of  each 
lunar  month.     It  now  appears  once  a  week. 

The  paper  published  by  Sahm  Paris  was  called  al- 
Qdhira.     It  has  ceased  publication. 

Al-Saltana  (The  Sultanate),  a  weekly  journal,  founded 
in  1857,  represents  Ottoman  interests,  and  is  edited  by 
Iskandar  Efendi  Shalhub.  Al-Mahrusa  (The  Capital) 
has  been  in  existence  since  1877,  and  was  edited  by 
Aziz-bey  Zind,  who  has  now  been  succeeded  by 
Rafa'il-Efendi  Zind.  The  chief  writers  on  this  paper 
are  Yusuf-Efendi  Asaf  and  Khalil-Efendi  Naqqash. 

Al-Hildl  (The  Crescent),  a  literary  and  scientific  jour- 
nal, appearing  once  a  month,  edited  by  Jurji- Efendi 
Zaidan,  and  founded  in  1892,  is  devoted  to  the  dissemi- 
nation of  European  ideas. 


THE    PERIODICAL    PRESS  441 

A  certain  number  of  papers  and  reviews  are  more 
especially  intended  for  ladies  ;  among  them  we  may 
note  : — 

Al-Fatdt  (The  Young  Girl),  a  monthly  publication 
which  has  been  appearing  since  1892,  and  is  edited  by 
Mme.  Hind  bint  Naufal ;  the  Mir  at  al-hasnd  (Mirror  of 
Beauty),  edited  by  Maryam  Mizhir  since  1896;  al-Firdaus 
(Paradise),  by  Louise  HabbMin;  and  Ants  al-Jalts  (The 
Faithful  Companion),  by  Alexandra  Avierino  and  Labiba 
Hashim. 

The  Copts,  too,  possess  an  Arabic  press,  which  is 
entirely  devoted  to  the  intestinal  quarrels  which  divide 
the  Coptic  nation,  and  the  struggles  between  the  clergy 
and  the  people.  The  Watan  (The  Fatherland),  founded 
in  1878  by  Mikha'il  'Abdal-Sayyid,  a  bi-weekly  paper, 
supports  the  Patriarch's  party,  while  the  Taufzq  (Suc- 
cess), a  scientific  and  progressive  weekly  publication, 
represents  the  opposition. 

In  1876,  a  journalist  of  the  Lebanon,  who  found  he  had 
not  sufficient  freedom  of  action  in  Syria,  Salim  Taqla 
by  name,  founded  at  Alexandria,  with  the  help  of  his 
brother  Bishara,  the  Ahrdm  (The  Pyramids),  the  first 
Arabic  daily  paper,  which  then  defended,  and  still  de- 
fends, French  interests  in  Egypt.  Shortly  afterwards, 
another  Syrian  founded  a  weekly  review,  al-Mahrusa,  at 
Cairo.  A  bi-monthly  review,  the  Muqtatif,  founded  in 
1877  by  the  pupils  of  the  American  College,  at  Beyrout, 
was  removed  to  Cairo,  where  the  editors,  Faris  Nimr, 
Yaqub  Sarruf,  and  Shahin  Makarios,  established,  in  1889, 
a  newspaper  called  al-Muqattam  (after  the  mountain 
overlooking  the  city),  which  is  devoted  to  the  develop- 
ment of  British  influence.  The  Moslems  had  no  organ 
until  Shaikh  Ahmad  Madht  (died  1893)  published  a 
29 


442  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

political  paper,  al-Mu'ayyad  (1890),  which  has  a  large 
circulation  all  over  the  Moslem  world,  from  Morocco  to 
the  Dutch  Indies,  and  which  has  been  managed,  since 
the  founder's  death,  by  'Ali  ibn  Yfisuf,  who  calls  him- 
self Shaikh 'Ali  Yusuf. 

To  these  publications,  and  many  others,  such  as  the 
Misr,  which  favours  the  English  occupation,  the  Basir, 
the  Saldin,  and  the  Akhbdr,  all  of  them  Turko-Egyptian 
in  their  leanings,  two  weekly  journals  and  one  daily 
paper  have  recently  been  added.  These  are  the  Mursad 
and  the  Musnad,  and  the  Liwd  (The  Flag),  which  last  (a 
daily  paper)  is  edited  by  Mustafa  Kamil. 

In  the  provinces  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  a  certain 
number  of  official  journals  appear  in  the  Turkish  lan- 
guage, and,  in  places  where  Arabic  is  spoken,  a  portion 
of  the  sheet  is  printed  in  that  tongue.  Thus,  in  the 
province  of  Bassora,  we  have  al-Basra,  al-Zaurd  in  that 
of  Bagdad,  Sand  in  the  Yemen,  and  Tardbulus  al-gharb 
in  Tripoli  of  Barbary,  where  we  may  also  notice  the 
Taraqqt  (Progress).  Turning  westward,  we  find  at  Tunis, 
besides  the  Official  Gazette,  to  which  we  have  already 
referred,  al-Hddira,  which  has  been  in  existence  since 
1890,  al-Zahra,  al-Bastra,  and  two  Arabic  journals 
printed  in  the  Hebrew  character,  the  literary  style  of 
which  lies  midway  between  the  Arabic  of  the  classics 
and  the  popular  form  of  speech — the  Bustdn  and  the 
Mukhayyir.  In  Algeria  the  Arabic  press  is  represented 
by  the  Mubashshir  and  the  Tilimsdn  (Tlemcen).  A  politi- 
cal sheet  known  as  al-Maghrib  has  appeared  at  Morocco. 

At  Constantinople,  besides  the  Jawd'ib,  which  was 
ultimately  transferred  to  Cairo,  various  Arabic  journals, 
most  of  them  shortlived,  have  appeared.  Among  them 
we  may  mention  the  Ptiddl,  the  Hawddith,  the  Saldin,  the 


ITS    FUTURE  443 

Haqd'iq,  and  the  Munabbih,  all  of  them  political  organs  ; 
and  the  Insdn  and  Kaukab,  scientific  journals.  The 
le^al  paper,  al-Huqiiq,  continues  to  appear  in  Turkish 
and  Arabic.  In  the  Island  of  Cyprus,  now  under  English 
rule,  a  political  journal  in  Arabic,  the  Dik  al-Sharq 
(Cock  of  the  East),  is  published ;  and  in  India  there  is 
the  Nukhbat  al-Akhbdr  (Selection  of  News),  which  would 
appear  to  be  the  only  Arabic  newspaper  published  in  the 
huge  area  of  Hindustan. 

In  Italy,  the  Mustaqill  (The  Independent) ;  in  France, 
the  Anbd,  the  Abiil-Haul,  the  Ittihdd,  the  Basir,  the 
Sadd,  the  HuqAq,  the  Shuhra,  the  "  Urwa  al-  Wuthqd,  and 
the  Rajd  (all  of  which,  like  the  Barjis,  to  which  refer- 
ence has  already  been  made,  have  discontinued  publica- 
tion) ;  in  London,  the  Ittihdd al-Arabt,  the  Khildfa,  and 
the  Mir  dt  al-Ahwdl,  edited  by  Rizq-Allah  Hasun,  repre- 
sent the  journals  which  have  died  out  on  foreign  soil. 
Still  green  and  flourishing  are  the  AbA  Nazzdra  (The 
Old  Man  in  Spectacles),  a  satirical  illustrated  paper 
edited  by  Shaikh  Sanu  a,  and  the  Tawaddud  and  Munsif, 
in  Paris ;  the  KashkM,  which  contains  Persian  and 
Tartar  sheets,  at  Tiflis ;  the  Diyd  al-Khdfiqain,  partly 
printed  in  English,  in  London  ;  the  Kaukab  Amirikd 
and  al-Ayydm,  in  New  York  ;  the  Marsad,  in  Marseilles ; 
the  Hddi,  in  Philadelphia ;  and  the  Bardztl,  Raqib,  and 
Asmd'i,  in  Brazil. 

The  Future  of  Arabic  Literature 

The  foregoing  pages  have  given  a  picture  of  the  blos- 
soming, the  maturity,  and  the  decline  of  a  literature 
which  has  lasted  for  thirteen  centuries,  from  the  earliest 
period  of  the  Middle  Ages  down  to  our  own  days ;  and 


444  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

we  have  watched  the  second  growth,  induced  by  the 
fecundating  influence  of  modern  thought,  of  the  original 
stock,  several  branches  of  which — not  to  mention  that 
offshoot  of  circumstance  engrafted  on  it,  the  periodical 
press — have  brought  forth  flowers.  What  future  lies 
before  this  second  growth  ?  Will  it  be  an  imitation  of 
the  classic  centuries  ?  Or  will  the  language,  forced  into 
modification  by  the  necessity  for  interpreting  fresh  ideas, 
enrich  itself  with  new  and  youthful  forms  which  shall 
revivify  the  ancient  groundwork  ?  It  would  seem, 
at  the  first  glance,  as  though  such  centres  of  literary 
activity  as  Cairo  and  Beyrout  were  destined  to  produce 
men  who,  following  the  movement  initiated  by  their  pre- 
decessors of  the  nineteenth  century,  will,  so  to  speak, 
serve  as  the  link  between  Europe — and  in  Europe  I 
include  the  colonies  scattered  all  over  the  face  of  the 
globe,  and  everywhere  continuing  the  work  begun  on 
this  continent  by  the  sons  of  Japhet — and  the  East,  still 
wrapt  in  the  semi-darkness  of  a  dying  twilight.  They 
should  be  aided  in  this  enterprise  by  the  powerful 
support  of  the  periodical  press,  which  reaches  the 
greater  part  of  the  Moslem  world,  reckoned  at  two 
hundred  million  souls,  and  which  should  be  able  to  do 
an  enormous  amount  of  good  in  this  direction) 

But  how  does  all  this  affect  the  language  ?  Will  it  be 
transformed,  developed  ?  Will  it  grow  clearer,  more 
accessible  to  the  mass  of  half-taught  people  educated  in 
the  primary  schools  ?  Any  man  who  has  studied  the 
question  must  answer.  No  !  Nowhere  do  we  see  a  move- 
ment like  that  which,  in  the  course  of  the  last  thirty 
years,  has  altered  the  old  Osmanli-Turkish  tongue,  by 
clearing  all  its  ancient  rhetorical  forms  away.  Arabic 
is  still  swathed  about  with  classic  formations,  and  conse- 


ITS    FUTURE  445 

quently  employs  a  quantity  of  expressions  which  can 
only  be  understood  by  Hterary  men ;  thus  closing  the 
way  of  comprehension  to  the  majority,  in  matters  which 
would  be  of  the  deepest  interest  to  it.  No  self-respecting 
writer  would  publish  a  political  article  in  anything  but 
rhymed  prose,  and  the  empty  and  futile  rhetoric,  the 
alliterations  after  the  manner  of  Hariri's  Lectures,  therein 
displayed,  entertain  the  educated  reader.  There  it  ends. 
Yet,  along  with  these  clap-trap  harangues,  serious  articles 
on  special  subjects,  which  make  no  attempt  at  shining  by 
the  use  of  a  display  of  empty  words,  and  appeal  direct 
to  the  intelligence,  without  permitting  their  argument  to 
be  disturbed  by  extraneous  trifling,  are  also  published. 
To  tell  the  truth,  one  obstacle  lies  always  between  the 
editor  and  his  readers — the  uncertainty  which  attends 
the  reading  of  a  language  in  which  the  vowels  are  very 
seldom  marked.  This  drawback  it  will  be  very  hard  to 
remedy.  But  it  would  be  less  difficult  to  read  Arabic, 
and  there  would  be  less  uncertainty  about  it,  if  the  editor 
or  the  printer  would  consent  to  mark  the  harakdt  in  the 
case  of  words  which  may  bear  a  double  meaning,  in  that 
of  the  passive  tenses  of  verbs,  and  in  that  of  the  sub- 
stantives of  which  the  sense  changes  according  to  the 
spelling.  This  would  render  a  huge  service  to  that  part 
of  the  Eastern  public  which  has  not  worn  out  its  youth 
on  the  flags  of  the  universities — for  I  do  not,  of  course, 
speak  here  of  the  very  small  circle  of  Europeans  who 
may,  either  as  a  study  or  a  pastime,  cast  their  eyes 
over  an  Arabic  journal,  though  they  have  far  better  and 
more  practical  literature  at  their  command,  in  their  own 
tongue. 

Should  Arabic  writers,  instead  of  producing  their  work 
in  literal  Arabic,  write  in  the  dialect  of  the  various  coun- 


446  ARABIC    LITERATURE 

tries  in  which  Arabic  is  spoken,  and  in  which  a  native 
press  exists  ?  That  is  not  to  be  desired,  for  a  newspaper 
estabhshed  on  such  principles  would  find  no  readers 
beyond  the  inhabitants  of  the  country  in  which  it  ap- 
pears. A  newspaper  in  Algerian  Arabic  is  not  likely  to 
appeal  to  a  man  from  Damascus,  or  Bagdad,  or  Muscat. 
The  poor  fellow's  QdmAs  would  be  wasted  on  it ! 
The  use  of  the  literal  Arabic  ensures  each  newspaper  a 
circle  of  readers  ranging  far  beyond  Arabic-speaking 
countries,  and  comprising  all  those  in  which  it  is  the 
language  of  the  learned,  as  Latin  was  amongst  ourselves 
in  the  Middle  Ages.  This  means  every  country  inhabited 
by  Moslems,  from  the  Caucasus  to  China,  from  the 
Steppes  of  Tartary  to  the  mouths  of  the  Niger. 

Already,  indeed,  many  neologisms  have  found  their 
way  into  the  language,  and  it  has  become  possible  to 
render  the  modern  expressions  which  the  needs  of 
modern  times  have  created  in  Europe.  The  Arabic 
tongue,  with  its  skilfully  composed  grammar,  is  suffi- 
ciently malleable  to  enable  it  to  express  modern  thought, 
and  at  the  same  time  to  supply  the  whole  of  the  Moslem 
East  with  the  new  technical  terms  in  chemistry,  medi- 
cine, and  most  sciences.  The  path  one  would  fain  see 
the  writer  of  the  future  tread  is  that  of  the  search  for 
limpidity  and  simplicity  of  expression.  Once  these  are 
attained,  a  brilliant  career  may  be  predicted  for  Arabic 
Literature,  which,  like  Islam  itself,  will  endure  for  many 
an  age  to  come. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

GENERAL   STUDIES 

German 

Hammer-Purgstall,  LitteraturgescMchte  der  Araber.  y  vols.  Vienna, 
1850-1855. — Alfred  von  Kremer,  Kulturgeschichle  des  Orients 
tinter  den  Khalifen.  Vol.  ii.  (Vienna,  1877),  chaps,  viii.  (Poesie) 
and  jx.  (Wissenschaft  und  Litteratur). —  Carl  Brockelmann, 
Geschichte  der  Arabischen  Litteratur.  Vol.  i.,  Weimar,  1898 
(in  two  parts)  ;  vol.  ii.,  Berlin,  1899- 1902  (also  in  two  parts). — , 
Carl  Brockelmann,  Geschichte  der  Arabischen  Litteratur,  second 
part  of  vol.  vi.  of  the  Litteraturen  des  Ostens  in  Einzeldarstel- 
lungen.  Leipzig,  1901  (drawn  up  with  a  view  to  the  general 
public). 

Latin 

Haji-Khalfa,  Lexicon  bibliographicum  et  encyclopcEdicum,  edited  in 
Arabic,  with  a  Latin  translation,  by  G.  Fluegel.  7  vols.,  quarto. 
Leipzig  and  London,  1835-1858. 

PRE-ISLAMIC    PERIOD 

Arabic 

Septeni  Mu' allakdt  cartnina  antiquissinia  Arabum.  Ed.  F.  A.  Arnold, 
Lipsiae,  1850.  Abu'l-Far.aj  al-Isfahani,  Kit&b  al-Aghdni  (Book 
of  Songs).  20  vols.  Bulaq,  1868. —  Briinnow,  The  twenty-first 
volume  of  the  Kitab  al-Aghdnt,  being  a  collection  of  biographies 
not  contained  in  the  Buldq  edition.  Leyden,  1888. — Rev.  Father 
Salhani,  S.J.,  published  a  collection  of  narratives  drawn  from  the 
same  work  at  Beyrout  in  1888. — Kosegarten  began  to  publish  the 
text  of  this  work,  with  a  Latin  translation  and  notes,  at  Greifen- 
wald,  but  only  the  first  volume  appeared  (1840). 

447 


448  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

English 
Sir  C.  J.  Lyall,  Translations  of  Ancient  Arabian  Poetry,  with  an 
introduction  and  notes.  London,  1885. — W.  F.  Prideaux,  The 
Lay  of  the  Himyarites.  Sehore,  1879. — W.  A.  Clouston,  Arabian 
Poetry  for  English  Reade7-s.  Glasgow,  1881. — J.  L.  Burckhardt, 
Arabic  Proverbs.  London,  1830.' — E.  W.  l^a.n&'s  Arabic-English 
Lexicoji.  8  vols.,  1863-1893  (full  of  extracts  and  explanations  of 
early  Arabic  poetry). 

French 

Silvestre  de  Sagy,  Chrestomathie  Arabe.  2me.  edit.  3  vols.  Paris, 
1826,  3  vols. — F.  Fresnel,  Lettres  sur  P Histoire  des  Arabes  avant 
I'lslamisme.  Paris,  1836. — R.  Basset,  La  pocsie  Arabe  ante- 
islamique  (Legon  d'ouverture).  Paris,  i88o. — St.  Guyard,  Theorie 
nouvelle  de  la  metrique  Arabe  {fournal  Asiatique,  1876,  and 
also  published  separately). 

German 
Ahlwardt,  Ueber  Poesie  und  Foetik  der  Araber.  Gotha,  1856. 
Bemerkungen  iiber  die  Echtheit  der  alien  Arabischen  Gedichte. 
Greifswald,  1872. —  L  GoXA'vi'ae.r,  Abhandlungen  zur  Arabischen 
Philologie.  Leyden,  1876. — G.  Jacob,  Studien  in  Arabischen 
Dichtern.  Heft  II.,  Noten  zum  Verstdndniss  der  Muallaqdt, 
1894.  Heft  III.,  Altarabisches  Beduinenleben,  1897. —  Martin 
Hartmann,  MetrumundRhythmiis:  der  Ursprung der  Arabischen 
Metra.  Giessen,  1896. — Th.  Noeldeke,  Beitrdge  zur  Keiitniss 
der  Poesie  der  alien  Araber.     Hanover,  1S64. 

THE    KORAN 

English 
Translations  by  George  Sale,  London,  1734,  1764,  1821,  1824,  1857. — 
Rodwell,  1861, 1876,  arranged  according  to  the  presumed  historical 
order  of  the  chapters. — E.  H.  Palmer,  2  vols.,  Oxford,  1880. — 
E.  W.  Lane,  Selections  from  the  Kur'dn.  London,  1879. — 
Stanley  Lane-Poole,  Speeches  of  Mohammad.     London,  1882. 

French 
Translations  by  Du  Ryer,  Paris,  1649,  1672  ;  The  Hague,  1683,  1685  ; 
Antwerp,  1719";  Amsterdam,  1756,  1770,  1775;  Geneva,  1751. — 
Savary,  Paris,  1783  (An  vii.,  1798),  1822;   Amsterdam,  1786.— 
Kasimirski,  Paris,  1840,  1852. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  449 

German 

Translations  by  Solomon  Schweiggem,  Nuremberg,  1616,  1623. — 
Megerlin,  1772. — Friedrich  Eberhardt  Boysen,  Halle,  1773,  1775- 
— Wahl,  Halle,  1828.— Ullmann,  Crefeld,  1840,  1877.— F.  Ruckert, 
in  extracts,  published  by  A.  Miiller  at  Frankfort,  1888. 

Latin 

Translations   by  Louis    Maracci,   Padua,   1698. — Abraham  Hinckel- ■ 
mann,  Hamburg,  1694. — Chr.  Reinecke,  Leipzig,  1721. 

Italian 

Andrea  Arrlvabene's  anonymous  translation,  Venice,  1547. 

There  are  Dutch  translations  by  Swigger,  Hamburg,  1641  ;  Glase- 
maker,  Amsterdam,  1698  ;  Tollens,  Batavia,  1859  ;  Keyzer, 
Haarlem,  i860  ;  and  a  Russian  translation  by  Sabloukov,  Kazan, 
1877  ;  also  Swedish  translations  by  Crusenstolpe,  Stockholm, 
1843,  ^nd  Tornberg,  Lund,  1874. 

History  of  the  Koran — Th.  Noeldeke,  Geschichte  des  Korans.  Got- 
tingen,  1863. — E.  M.  Wherry,  A  Comprehensive  Commentary  on 
the  Qurdn.  4  vols.,  London,  1882-6. — La  Beaume,  Analysis  of 
the  Koran  according  to  Kasimirski's  translation.  Paris,  1878. — 
H.  Hirschfeld,  New  Researches  into  the  Composition  and  Exe- 
gesis of  tlie  Qoran.     London,  1902. 

Life  of  Mahomet. — Ibn  Hisham,  Das  Leben  Muhammed's,  tr.  Weil. 
Stuttgart,  1864, — A.  Sprenger,  Das  Leben  und  die  Lehre  des 
Mohammed.  Berlin,  1861,  1869. — W.  Muir,  The  Life  of  Mahomet 
and  History  of  Islam.  London,  1 858-1 861  ;  3rd  ed.,  1895. — • 
L.  Krehl,  Das  Leben  des  Muhammed.  Leipzig,  1884. — Syed 
Ameer  Ali,  The  Life  and  Teachings  of  Muhammad.  London, 
1891. — E.  Sell,  The  Faith  of  Islam.     London,  1S80. 

PERIOD  OF  THE  CALIPHS 

Al-Nadim,  Kitab-  al-Fihrist,  ed.  G.  Fluegel,  2  vols.,  Leipzig,  1871, 
1872. — Ibn-Khaldun,  Prol^gomines,  traduites  et  commentes  par 
MacGuckin  de  Slane,  3  vols.,  Paris,  1858. — Hamdsa,  uebersetzt 
von  Fr.  Riickert,  2  vols.,  Stuttgart,  1846. — Divan  de  Ferazdaq, 
trad.  par.  E.  Boucher,  2  vols.,  Paris,  1870,  1875. — Mutanabbii  Car- 
mina,  ed.  F.  Dieterici,  Beriin,  1861. — T.  Chenery  and  F.  Steingass, 


450  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  Assemblies  of  Al-Harir'i,  trans.,  2  vols.,  London,  1867,  1898. — 

D.  S.  Margoliouth,  The  Letters  of  Aiu'/-'A  Id  ofMa'arra,  text  and 
trans.,  Oxford,  1898. — E.  H.  Palmer,  The  Poetical  Works  of  Behd- 
ed-din  Zoheir,  text  and  trans.,  2  vols.,  Cambridge,  1876,  1877. — 
F.  Dieterici,  Die  Philosophie  der  Araber,  16  parts,  Berlin,  1858- 
1894. — T.  W.  Arnold,  The  Preaching  of  Islam,  London,   1896. — 

E.  G.  Browne,  Literary  History  of  Persia,  London,  1901  (half  of 
this  volume  is  occupied  with  Arabic  literature  under  the  Cali- 
phate).— R.  Dozy,  Recherches  sur  Phistoire  et  la  literature  de 
VEspagne,  1  vols.,  Leyden,  1881. — S.  Lane-Poole,  Cairo,  London, 
1902  (with  account  of  Arabic  literature  of  Egypt). — Sir  W.  Muir, 
The  Apology  of  Al-Kindy,  London,  2nd  ed.,  1887. — Renan, 
Averroes  et  P Averroisme,  Paris,  1852. — Ibn-Khallikan,  Wafaydt 
al-Aydn,  in  Arabic ;  autographed  by  F.  Wiistenfeld,  Gottingen, 
2  vols.,  1835-1840;  printed  at  Biilaq,  1882;  translated  into 
English  by  MacGuckin  de  Slane,  Biographical  Dictionary,  4  vols., 
Paris-London,  1843-1871.  The  Supplement  to  this  work,  Ibn 
Shikir  Al-Kutubi's  Fawdt  al-Wafayat,  printed  at  Buliq  in  1866, 
has  never  been  translated  out  of  the  Arabic.  The  Kitdb  al- 
Aghdni  (see  ajite)  also  covers  a  part  of  this  period  (the  three 
first  centuries  of  the  Hegira). — F.  Wiistenfeld,  Die  Geschicht- 
schreiber  der  Araber  und  Hire  Werke.  Gottingen,  1882.  Geschichte 
der  Arabischen  Aerzte  U7id  Naturforscher.  Gottingen,  1840.  Die 
Academien  der  Araber  und  ihre  Lehrer,  after  the  Shafi'ite  school 
book,  written  by  Ibn  Qadi  Shuhba.    Gottingen,  1837. 

MODERN  PERIOD 

Arabic 

Muhammad  al-Muhibbi,  Khuldsat  al-dthdr,  a  biographical  dictionary 
of  the  prominent  persons  of  the  eleventh  century  of  the  Hegira. 
4  vols.  Cairo,  1868. — Abil'I-Fadl  Muhammad  Khalil  Efendi  al- 
Muradi,  Silk  al-durar,  biographies  of  the  prominent  men  of  the 
twelfth  century  of  the  Hegira.     4  books  in  2  vols.     Bijlaq,  1874. 

German  and  English 

Martin  Hartmann,  Die  Zeitungen  und  Zeitschriften  in  ^Arabischen 
Sprachen,  an  article  which  appeared  in  the  Specimen  dune  en- 
cyclopMie  Musulmane,  published  by  Monsieur  Th.  Houtsma  at 
Leyden,  1899,  pp.  11  and  onward. —  The  Arabic  Press  of  Egypt. 
London,  1899. 


INDEX 


In  arranging  the  proper  names  no  account  has  been  taken  of  the 
Arabic  article,  al. 


Abaqa,  Mongolian  Sultan,  337 
al-Abarzl,  no 

Abb^s  (sons  of ).     (Sec'Abbasids. 
'Abbas  ibn  al-Ahnaf,  73,  78 
al- Abbas   ibn  'AH   ibn  Ntr  al-dln, 

.    399 

Abbasids,  50,  57,  63  sqq.,  182 
"Abdallah,  son  of  Ibn  Hanbal,  240 
'Abdallah  Fikrl-pacha,  424 
'Abdallah  ibn'Abd  al-Uzza,  28 
'Abdallah  ibn'Abd  al-Salam,  126 
'Abdallah  ibn  'AH,  21 1 
'Abdallah  ibn ' Atiyya,  256 
'Abdallah  al-KhafajJ,  123 
'Abdallah  al-Mantili,  344 
'Abdallah  ibn  al-Mukhariq,  54 
'Abdallah  ibn  Ma'n,  76 
'Abdallah  Ibn  al-Mu'tazz,  84,  180 
"Abdallah  ibn  Qais  al-Kuqayyat,  47 
'Abdallah  ibn  Sad,  45 
'Abdallah  ibn  Sad  ibn  Abi  Sarh,  35 
"Abdallah  ibn  Tahir,  88,  144 
'Abdallah  ibn  Zaid  al-'Ansl,  252 
"Abdallah  ibn  Zubair,  47,  51,  65 
"Abdallah-pacha  ChetejS,  329 
al-'Abdart,  306 

'Abd  al-'AzIz  (AbA  Faris),  348,  350 
'Abd  al- Aziz  ibn 'Umar  al-Sa'dl,  134 
'Abd  al-'Aziz  al-SuIamI,  269 
'Abd  al-'Aztz,  the  Takrdrian,  392 
'Abd  al-GhafJa,r  al-Akhras,  434 
"Abd  al-Ghafir  al-Farist  228 
"Abd  al-Ghant  al-Nabulusi,  329,  417 
'Abd  al-Ghan!  ibn  Said,  225 
"Abd  al-JabbSr  ibn  Hamdis,  125 
"Abd  al-LatIf,  196,  305 
'Abd  al-Majid  ibn'AbdUn,  127 


'Abd  al-Malik  (the  Caliph),  46  sqq.,  62 
'Abd  al-Malik  ibn  Quraib  al-Asma'l, 

142 
'Abd  al-Maslh  Nairn  a,  281 
'Abd    al-Miihsin     ibn     Hamtid    al- 

Tanftkhf,  1 18 
'Abd    al-Mu'min,    Almohad  Sultan, 

252,  313 
'Abd  al-Qadir  (the  Emir),   273,  420 

sqq.,  431 
'Abd  al-Qadir  ibn   Abd  al-Kartrn  al- 

Wardifi,  436 
'Abd  al-Qadir  al-Baghdadl,  398 
'Abd   al-Qadir   al-Gilan!,    273,    275, 

348,  357,  373 
'Abd  al-Rahim  al-Bur'i,  112 
'Abd  al-Raliim  Efendi,  382 
'Abd  al-Rahman  III.,  Caliph  of  Cor- 
dova, 310 
'Abd  al-KahmS,n,  Prince  of  Tilimsan, 

Abd  al-Kahman  ibn  al-Ashath,  55 
'Abd  al-Rahman  al-Jabartt,  423 
'Abd  al  Rahman  al-Idrlsl,  178 
'Abd  al-Rahman  al-'ImSdl,  384 
'Abd      al  -  Rahman      ibn     'Isa      al- 

Hamadhant,  157 
'Abd  al-Rahman  ibn  Ism^'U  ibn  al- 

MaqdisI,  122 
'Abd  al-RahmSn  ibn  al-Qasim,  237 
'Abd  al-Rahmin  al-Sa'di,  396 
'Abd  al-Razzaq,  357 
'Abd  al-Salam  of  Bassora,  98 
'Abd  al-Salam  ibn  Raghban,  name  of 

the  poet,  Dik  al-Jinn,  89 
'Abd  aI-Shak<ir  Rahman  'AH  Khan, 

434 


452 


INDEX 


[  Abd    al-Wahid,    Almohad    Sultan, 

290 
'Abd  al-Waiiid  al-Marrakusht,  195 
'Abd  al-Wahbab,  336 
'Abdi  Efendi  Muhurdar,  414 
'Abdfln,  Christian  convent  of,  85 
Aben-Pascuab's,  204 
al-Abharl  (Athir  al-dln  Mufaddal), 

290 
Abicht,  18 

'Abld  ibn  al-Abras,  23 
'AbSd  ibn  Sharya,  60 
al-Abiwardi,  108 
Abkariytts  (Iskandar  Agha),  41 7 
'Abla,  celebrated  by'Autara,  14 
al-Ablah  (AbA ' Abdallah),  100 
Ablaq  (castle  of),  II,  29 
Abnawl,     surname     of     Wahb     ibn 

Munabbih,  61 
Abraham,    4 ;     religion   of,    26,    33  ; 

scrolls  of,  34 
Abraham  ibn  Hasdai,  266 
Abraham  Daninos,  430 
Abraham,  Ecchelensis,  209 
'Abs,  tribe  of;  'Absitee,  13,  20,  45 
al-Abshihl,  397 
Abft'l-'Abbas,  Prince  of  the  Maghrib, 

350.  351 
AbA'l- Abb^s  Ahmad  al-Harrar,  373 
AbA'l- Abbas  Saffah  (the  Caliph),  86, 

212 
AbA'l- Abbas  Tha'lab,  152,  153 
Abft'l- Abbas  al-Tutili,  126 
AbA 'Abdallah  al-Ablah,  100 
AbA 'Abdallah  al-Hasan  ibn  Humaid 

al-Baghdadi,  240 
Abfi 'Abdallah  ibn  al-Ahmar,  Sultan 

of  Granada,  350 
Abft  'Abdallah  Muhammad,   Prince 

of  Bijaya,  350 
Abft 'Abdallah  Muhammad  ibn  'Abd 

al-JalJl,  371 
Abd  "Abdallah  Muhammad  ibn  'All 

ibn  Tdmart,  309 
Abti     'Abdallah       Muhammad     al- 

Shuqratial,  125 
Abft      Abdallah      Muhammad      al- 

Khwarizml,  316 
Abft     'Abdallah     Muhammad      al- 

SanAsI,  430 
AbA  'Abdallah   Muhammad   ibn  al- 

Tayyib,  391 


Abfl  'Abdallah  al-Mustansir,  Emir  of 

Tunis,  202 
AbA'l-'Aia  ibn  Zuhr,  288 
Abll'I-'AU  al-Ma'arrS,  83,  95,  98,  162 
Abft '  All  al-Bal'aml,  131 
AbA'Ali  al-Farisl,  156 
Aba'AU  al-Hasan,  225 
Abd 'Amir  ibn' AbdAs,  127 
Abti'Amr  ibn  al-'AlS,,  138,  141,  142 
AbA  'Amr  'Uthman    ibn    Said    al- 

Dani,  258 
Abft'ArAba  al-Harranl,  178 
Abl'Ata  Aflah  ibn  YasS,r,  57 
Abli'l-'Atahiya,  74  sqq. 
Abii'l-Aswad,  138 
Abd'l-Aswad  al-Du'al!,  45 
Abil'l-Baqa,  Salili  al-Ja'fari,  269 
Abti  Bakr  (the  Caliph),  36,  40,  41, 

44,  318,  368 
Aba  Bakr  ibn  al-Mundhir,  370 
AbA  Bakr  ibn  Sad,  atabek  of  Ears, 

III,  261 
Ab<\  Bakr  al-Shanawanl,  383 
Ab1\  Bakr  al-Jurjani,  166 
Abfl  Bakr  ibn  Mujahid,  222,  255 
Abft  Bakr  ibn  al-Qfltiyya,  188 
AbA  Bakr  al-Karkhl,  293 
Abll  Bakr  al-Khwarizmi,  131 
Abft  Bakr  al-Malikl,  178 
A.b<i  Bakr  Muhammad  ibn  Quzman, 

128 
Abfl  Bishr   Matta  ibn  Yftnus,  282, 

284 
Abtt  Da'ild,  219 
AbA  Dhu'aib,  45 
Abft  Dulaf,  77 

Abft  Dulaf  Mis'ar  ibn  Muhalhal,  300 
AbA  Dulama,  66 
AbA'1-Fadl    al-'AbbSs  ibn  al-Ahnaf, 

70 
AbA'1-Eadl  al-'Abb^a   ibn  Earaj  al- 

Riyashi,  145 
Abft'l-Fadl  al-Harawi,  156 
Abft'l-Fadl  al-TAzari,  125 
Abft'l-Earaj  'Abd  al-Rahmdn,  250 
AbA'l-Earaj    'Abd    al-Rahman     ibn 

Nasr  Allah,  312 
Abfl'l-Faraj  al-BabbaghS,  94 
Abft'l-Earaj  Bar-Hebraeus,  209 
Ab<l'l-Faraj    ibn     Abi    Ya'qAb    al- 

Nadim,  186 
Abd'l-Faraj  ibn  al-Jauzi,  102 


INDEX 


453 


Abll'l-Faraj   al-Isfahanl,   17,  48,  74, 

84,  142,  184 
AbA'l-Faraj  al-Mu'afS  ibn  Zakariyy4, 

241 
Ab<l'l-Faraj   Muljammad  al-Wa'wa', 

99 

Abft'l-Faraj  TSsir,  113 
Abti')-Fath'Alial-Bu8ti,  105 
Abft'l-Fath  ibn  al-Hasina,  126 
Abft'1-Fath  Iskandarl,  133 
Abd'l-Fath     Muhammad       bn     al- 

Ta'awJdhl,  100 
Abft'l-Fida,  195,  203,  207,  325,  337 

«??•.  342,  358 
Abft  Firas  al-Hamdani,  90,  93 
Abii'l-Fityan  ibn  Hayyils,  109,  120 
Abii'l-Futllh  Nasr  Allah  ibn  Qalaqis, 

"3 
Abd'l  -  Ghana'im     Muhammad     al- 

Hurtlit  (Ibn  al-Mu'allim),  loi 
Abii'l-Ghaith,  Sharif  of  Mecca,  338 
Abft'l  -  Hajjaj     Yus^lf,       Prince      of 

Granada,  345 
Abft    Hafsa,    freedman   of   Marwan, 

69 
AbA'l-Hakam  Malik  ibn  al-Murahhal, 

130    ■ 
Abti    Hantfa,    232,    234,    235,    238, 

263.  357 
Ab4   Hammll,    Prince   of   Tilimsan, 

350/351 
Abft'I- Hasan  (the  qadl),  92 
Abii'l-Hasan  al-Ash'ari,  264 
Abft'l-Haaan   'All    ibn    Abl'I-Rijal, 

297   " 
Abft'l-Hasan  'AH  al-BakharzS,  106 
Abfi'l-Hasan'Ali  al-Qumml,  257 
Abft'l-Hasan '  All  al-Raba'!,  199 
AbA'l-liasan  al-Baghawl,  189 
AbA'l- Hasan  al-Haufl,  260 
Abii'l-Hasan  H3,zim  al-Qartjljinl,  125 
Abti'l-Hasan   ibn    Khumdrtash,    the 

Himyarite,  112 
AbA'l-Hasan  al-Maqdisi,  231 
AbA'I-Hasan   Muhammad    of   Alex- 
andria, 187 
Abli'l-Hasan  Sadaqa  al-Mazyadi,  107 
Abti    Hatim    Sahl  ibn   Muhammad, 

145, '146 
AbA  Hayy3,n,  340,  387 
Abll'1-Hazm  ibn  Jahwar,  126,  127 
Abft'l-Huda  Etendi,  434 


Abii'l-Husain    Abd    al-Rahman    al- 

S<lfl,'296 
Abti'l-Husain  al-Ahwazl,  134 
Abii'l-Husain 'AH  al-Shushtart,  129 
Abft'l-Husain  al-Mnzanl,  131 
Abti'I-Husain  Q^simibn'Ubaid  Allah, 

82 
Abil'l-Husain  TahyS   (al-Hadl  ila'l- 

liaqq),  242 
Abtl  Ibrahim  lalj^q  ibn  IbrShlm,  1 57 
Abft'Indn,  350 

Abd  Ishaq  Ahmad  al-Tha'labl,  210 
Abft  Isliaq  al-Shlrazi,  244 
AhA  Ishaq  Ibrahim,  Hafsid  Sultan, 

349    ' 
Abd   Ishaq    Ibrahim    ibn    Hilal   al- 

Sabi','i34 
Abu  Ishaq  Ibrahim  al-Husrl,  124 
Abft  Isljiq  Ibrahim  ibn  Sahl,  129 
Abd    Ishaq   Ibrahim    ibn    Silih    al- 

Warraq,  158 
Abft   Ishaq    Ibrahim  ibn  Yahya   al- 

Ghazzl,  109 
Abli  Ishaq   Ibrahim  ibn  Ydsuf  ibn 

Tashifiri,  128 
Abii  Ja'far  al-Dabbl,  204 
Abft  Ja'tar  Mas'lld  al-Bayadl,  105 
AbA  Ja'far  Muhammad,  253 
Abfl  Ja'far  al-Qumml,  242 
Abd'l  JM  al-Makhzdml,  389 
Abti'l-Khaibari,  24 
Abfi.  Lahab,  uncle  of  Mahomet,  38 
AbA'l-Laith  al-Samarqandl,  264 
Abll'l-Ma'ali  Sa'd  al-Haziri,  97 
AbA  Madyan,  275 
Abil   Madyan   Shu'aib   al-Huraifish, 

348 
Abfl'l-MaMsin  ibn  Taghribirdl,  365 
AbA  MansAr'All  ibn  al-Hasan  Surr 

Durr,  105 
Abil  Mansiir  al-Azharl,  158 
AhA  MansAr  al-Maturldl,  264 
AbA  Ma'shar,  296 
AbA  Mihjan,  44,  157 
Ab4  Mikhnaf  LAt  ibn  YahyS,  61 
Abft  Muhammad,  376 
AbA      Muhammad     'Abdallah      ibn 

YAsuf,  24S 
AbA  Muhammad  ibn  'Umar,  149 
AbA  Muhammad  al-Qasim  al-Harlrl, 

134 
•  AbA  Mus'ab,  uncle  of  Shafi'l,  238 


454 


INDEX 


AhtL  Muslim,  57,  64,  66 
Abd'l-Mu^affar       Muhammad       al- 

Abiwardt,  108 
Abft'l-Muzaffar  Yahya  ibn  Hubaira, 

259,  303 
AbA  Najm  al-Fadl  ibn  QudSma  al- 

'm,  53 

Abft  Nasr  al-Qiimm!,  296 

Abli  Nu'aim  al-Isfahani,  230 

Aba  Nuwas,  58,71,  75,  84,  87,   118, 

141,  182 
Abti'l-Qasim   ibn  Ahmad    al-Ziyanl, 

431 
Abu'I-Qfcim     ibn     al-Hajar,      chief 

Moslem  in  Sicily,  113 
Abvl'l-Qasim  ibn  Tabataba,  94 
AbCi'l-Qasim  al-Ghafiq!,  297 
Abii'l-Qasira      Xhalaf      al-Zahrawt, 

310 
AbA'i-Qasim  al-LaithI,  372 
AbU'l-Qasini  Muhammad  ibn  HSni', 

95 
Abti'l-Qasim  Shfltibi,  373 
Aba  Qir  and  Abli  Sir,  402 
Abu'l-Raqa'maq,  96 
Aba'l-Ra's  al-Nasiii,  431 
Aba  Said,  107 

Aba  Said  Nasr  al-DInawari,  315 
Aba  Salim,  350 
Aba'1-Salt    Umayya    ibn   'Abd    al- 

"Azlz,  312 
Abft  Shama,  378 
Aba'1-Shis  Muhammad  ibn'Abdallah, 

87 
Aba  Shuja  al-Isfahaul,  248 
Aba  Sufyan,  60 

Aba  Sulaiman  D^'ud  ibn  'All,  240 
Aba'l-Su'ad  Efpndi,  424 
Aba  Talib,  uncle  of  Mahomet,  45 
Aba  Taiib,   son    of  Fakhr   al-daala, 

159' 
Abfl  Talib,  al-Mufaddal  ibn  Salama, 

152 
Aba  Tammam,  17,  83,  89,  14S,  162, 

1S2,  185 
Aba    'Ubaid   al-Q^aim    ibn    Sallam, 

144 
Aba  'Ubaida  Ma  mar   ibn  al-Muth- 

anna,  141,  142,  144 
Aba'Umar  Saiih  ibn  Ishaq  al-Jarmi, 

145  '       ' 

Aba  Usitma  Junada,  225 


Aba'l-Wafa  al-Bazajanl,  297 

Aba'1-Wafa  ibn  Salama,  SB 

AbaWahb,  l8l 

Aba'l-Walid,  127 

Aba'l-Walid  al-Azraq,  177 

Aba'l-Walld  al-Bajl,  262 

Aba     Ya'la     Muhammad     Ibn     al- 

Habbariyya,  106 
Aba  Yasuf,  235 

Aba  Yusuf  Ya'qab  al-Karkhl,  152 
Aba  Yasuf  Ya'qab  ibn  Akhl  Hizam, 

3^5  .  .  ' 

Aba  Zakariyy^  al-Azd],  177 
Aba  Zakariyya  YahyS,  ibn  Abl  Bakr, 

202 
Aba     ZukariyyS   ^YahyS.    ibn    'AdI, 

282 
Aba  Zaid,  406 
A  bH  Zaid,  romance  of,  405 
Aba    Zaid,    son    of  Muhammad  ibn 

Abl  Hafs,  204 
Aba     Zaid   'Abd     al-Rahmftn     Ibn 

Yaklilaftan,  129 
Aba  Zaid  Ahmad  ibn  Sahl  al-Balkbl, 

2S5,  301 
Aba  Zaid  Ans4rl,  40 
Aba  Zaid  Said  ibn'Amr,  142,  144 
Aba  Zaid  of  Sarftj,  135 
Achsemenians,  400 
'Ad,  tribe  of,  37,  409 
Adam,  67,  68,  262,  291 
'Adawiyya,  religious  order  of,  272 
'Adl  (the  Shaikh),  272 
'Adl  ibn  Zaid,  Christian  poet,  31,  58, 

71 
Adib  Ishaq,  439 

'Adiya,  grandtather  of  Samaual,  29 
'Adnan,  4 
'Adud    al-daula,    Buwaihid    prince, 

91,    134,  150,    159,   205,  296,   309, 

310 
Adud  al-dSn  al-'tjl,  342 
'Adwan,  tribe  of,  21,  22 
'Afif  al-din   Sulaim3,n   al-TilmisHni, 

123 
Aftf  al-dln  al-Yafil,  348 
Afiah  ibn  Yasar,  57 
Aftas,  family  of,  128 
al-Aghlab  ibn  'Umar   ibn    TJbaida, 

53 

Agoub,  414 
Alildf,  at  Hira,  30 


INDEX 


455 


Ahlwardt,  17,  93,  181,  333 

Ahmad,  brother  of  al-Ghazill,  265 

Ahmad  'All  al-Shadhill, 

Ahmad  BSba,  395 

Ahmad  al-Badawi,  413 

Ahmad  al-Barblr,  421 

Ahmad  al-Danaf,  401 

Ahmad  al-Ghabrlnl,  333 

Ahmad  Hamdl  Bey,  428 

Ahmad  Hijazl  lamd'H,  429 

Ahmad  ibn  Ahmad  ibn  'Abd  al-Rah- 

man,  392 
Ahmad  ibn  Ahmad  ibn  XJmar,  394 
Ahmad  ibn 'All  ibn  Mas' Ad,  386 
Ahmad  ibn  Hanba],  155,  216 
Ahmad  ibn  al-Mu'azzam  al-RSzi,  433 
Ahmad   ibn  Muhammad  al-HarawS, 

103,  160 
Ahmad   ibn  Muhammad  al-K^zl  of 

Cordova,  188 
Ahmad  ibn  SabI,  prince  of  Ballch,  301 
Ahmad  ibn  Sayyar,  178 
Ahmad  ibn  Shahln,  381 
Ahmad  ibn  Ttilun,  187 
Ahmad  ibn  Uwais,  Sultan  of  Bagdad, 

388 
Ahmad  ibn  YahyS  Khazindar,  399 
Ahmad  ibn  Zainl  Dahlan,  432 
Ahmad  al-KurdS,  332 
Ahmad  Madht,  441 
Ahmad  al-NasibI,  musician,  55 
Ahmad  al-Nasirl  al-Salawl,  432 
Ahmad  al-Numairl,  126 
Ah  mad-pacha      Kyiiprillu,       Grand 

Vizier,  331 
Ahmad  al  Bifa'S  (Shaikh),  434 
Ahmad  Zakt,  427 

Ahron,  father  of  Bar-Hebrasus,  209 
Ahura  Mazda,  63 
al-Ahwas,  47 
Aidamir  al-Jildakl,  370 
Aidamir  al-MuhyawI,  103 
'Ain,  pronunciation  of  the  letter,  56 
al-'Ainl,  354 

'A'isha,  wife  of  Mahomet,  87 
'A'isha  al-Baftniyya,  331 
al-A' jam,  surname  of  ZiySd  ibn  Sulai- 

mSn,  56 
al-'Ajjaj,  53 
al-Ajurrt,  222 
AjurrilTniyya^  387 
al- Akawwak,  76 


Akhhdr  cd-LufAg,  17 

al-Akhfash,  the  little,  156 

al-Akhfash,  the  middle,  143 

al-Akhras  ('Abd  al-Ghaffar),  434 

al-Akhtal,  48,  49,  52,  54 

"Ala   al-daula  Abii  Ja'far  ibn  Dush- 

manziySr,  286 
Aladdin  and  tke  wonderful  lamp,  402 
'Ala  al-din,  King  of  Khwarizm,  321 
'Ala  al-din  Ahmad  al-Sirafl,  355 
'Ala  al-din  al-Baha'j,  397 
'Ala  al-dln  Efendi  'Abidin,  421 
'  Ala  al-din  Tibare,  208 
'Alara  al-din  al-Bulqin!,  367 
Alam  al-din  al-SakhawS,  260 
Albategnius,  296 
Albohazen,  297 
Albucasis,  3 10 
Albumaser,  296 
Alexander,  155,  2S0,  400 
Alexander  of  Aphrodisias,  2S9 
Alexandre  Dumas,  p^re,  405 
Alexandre-pa<:ha  Caratbeodory,  322 
Alfiyya  of  Ibn  Malik,  171 
Alfraganus,  295 
■  Ali,  the  Caliph,  40,  45,  50,  79,  87,  89, 

94,  118,  155,  20S,  214,  278 
'AH,  Diwan  of,  253 
'Ali,  grandson  of  'Umar  ibn  al-Farid, 

115 
All  Abft'1-Nasr.  423 
'AH  al-Bakhar'zl,  106 
'All-bey,  409 
"All  al-Bustt,  105 
'All  Chelebi,  378 

'Alids,  45,  51,  69,80,  88,  151,  152,  232 
'All  Efendi  Darvish,  422 
"Alt  Efendi  Riyad,  429 
"  All  Fahml,  429 

'AH  al-Hamadhanl  al-Sakhawl,  122 
"All  ibn  'Abbaa,  309 
"All  ibn'Abd  al-E.ahman,  195 
"All  ibn  Ghazl,  392  ' 
"All  ibn  al-Husain,  214 
'All  ibn  Ishiq  al-Zahl,  94 
"All  ibn  Jabala  al- Akawwak,  76 
*A11  ibn  Ja'far  of  Shaizar,  299 
'All  ibn  al-Jahm,  80 
"All  ibn  MansAr,  King  of  Khwarizm, 

286 
'All   ibn   Muhammad,   chief   of    the 

Zanj,  145 


456 


INDEX 


'AH  ibn  Muhammad  ibn  Bassam,  84 
'Ali   ibn  Muqarrab    ibn    Mansftr  al- 

Ibrdhimi,  112 
'Ail  iba  Sahl  ibn  Rabban,  307 
'Alt  ibn  Sulaiman,  67 
'All  ibn '  Umar  ibn  Quzal  ibn  Jildak 

al-Y3,r\iqi,  121 
'Alt  ibn  Zafir  (Jamal  al-din),  194 
'Alt'Izzat  Efendi,  427 
'Alt  al-Mayurqt,  126 
'Alt  Muhammad,  the  Bib,  212 
'Alt-paclia,  vizier,  378 
"Alt-pacha  Mubarak,  426 
'All  al-Tauhldt,  316 
'All  YHsuf  (Shaikh),  442 
Almagest  of  Ptolemy,  297 
Almohads,  129,  252 
Almoravids.     See  Moravids. 
'Alqama  ibn'Abada  al-Fahl,  16 
'Alqama,  sou  of  AllStha,  27 
Aluh  ('ImM  al-din),  1S9 
Amari,  304 
'Amid  al-din  As  ad  ibn  Nasr  al-Abarzt, 

no 
al-Amidl  (Saif  al-dtn  'Alt),  248 
^1-Amidl  (al-Hasan  ibn  Bishr),  147 
al-Amidl  (P^ukn  al-dln  AbH  Hamid), 

275 
Amtn,  son  of  HSriin  al-Rashid,   71, 

150 
Amtn       al-daula        Abti'l-Ghana'im 

Muslim,  112 
Amln  ibn  Hasan  al-Hulwanl,  435 
Amtn  al-Jundl,  420 
Amin  Shamil,  423 
Amlniyya,  school  at  Damascus,    197, 

386 
al-Amlr,  surname  of  Ibn  HayyAs,  120 
'Amir,  uncle  of  Labid,  41 
'Amir,  son  of  Zarib,  supreme  arbitra- 

^  tor,  2 1 
'Amir  al-Ru'Sml,  379 
'Amr  ibn  al-'Abd.      See  'Tarafa,  14 
'Amr  ibn  al-'As,  365 
'Amr  ibn  Bahr  al-Jihiz,  213 
'Amr  ibn  Harith,  Prince  of  Ghassin, 

'Amr,  son  of  Hind,  King  of  Hlra,  14 
'Amr  ibn  Kulthftm,  10 
Anas,  son  of  Malik,  306 
al-Anbart,  156 
'Anaza,  tribe  of,  74 


'Anhurt  (Saltm  Efendi),  420 

AnsElrs,  49,  72,  no 

Ans^rls.     See  Nusairls. 

al-'Anst,  252 

'Antar^  romance  of^  13,  403,  438 

"Antara,  10,  13,  18,  30 

Antichrist,  surname  of  Kuthayyir,  52 

AntljUr,  minister  of  the  Ikhshldites, 

Apollonius  of  Perga,  293,  295 
al-Aqib  ibn  'Abdallah  al-Ansammant, 

394 
Arbad,  brother  of  Labld,  42 
Ardabast,  brother  of  the  Gothic  King, 

Oppas,  1 88 
Ardashlr  Bibakan,  l8l 
Aristotle,    137,   281,   282,   2S4,    289, 

290,  322 
al-'Arjt,  146 
Arnaud,  431 
Arnold,  412 
al-Arrajanl,  no,  332 
Arsacids,  6 

Ars^niyAs,  the  priest,  417 
Asad,  tribe  of,  23 
Asad  ibn  al-FurSt,  237 
As' ad  ibn  Nasr  al-Abarzt,  no 
As'ad  al-Shidydq,  416 
al-A'sha,  10,  26,  27,  30,  153 
Asha,  Harndan,  5^ 
al  Ash'art,  264,  268,  269 
al-Ash'ath     (IbnV  See     Abd    al- 

Rahman  ibn  al-Ash'ath. 
Ashja',  87 

Ashkar  !D4'fid  (Sultan),  394 
Ashraf  (Sultan),  193 
Ashrafiyya  (school),  249,  32S,  341 
Ashrafiyya  at  Mecca,  377 
al-'Askarl,  157,  368 
Aslam  ibn  Sahl,  177 
al-Asma'l,  17,  76,  141,  142,  144,  238 
Assassins,  246 
Assemani  (J.-S.),  209 
al-'Atls,  surname  of  Ibn  Wakl',  96 
Atsiz,  King  of  Khwarizm,  157 
'Aun  al-dtn  ibn  Hubaira,  189 
Aus,  tribe  of,  27 
Aus  ibn  Hajar,  15,  24 
Autolycus,  322 
Avenpace,  28S 
Averrhoep,  2S8 
Avesta,  63,  68,  149 


INDEX 


457 


Avicenna,  284,  285,  287,  303,  309 
Avieriuo  (Alexandra),  441 
Ayas-pacha,  377 
nl-'Ayyashl,  391 
Ayyilbites,  112,  114,  195,  337 
Azd,  tribe  of,  54 
al-Azhari,  158,  160,  1C2 
al-AzIz,  Fatimid  Caliph,  96 

Aziz,  son  of  Saladin,  191, 
"Aziz  ibn  Zind,  440 
al-Azraqi,  177 

Azza,  the  Bedouin  woman,  48 

Bab,  'All  Muhammad  the,  212 
al-Babbagha  (Abii'l-Faraj),  94 
Badi'  al-ZamS,n    al-Hamaclh4iiI,    1 32 

sqq. 
Badr,  battle  of,  32 
Badr  al-din  Lu'lu',  at4bek  of  Mosul, 

103,  104,  112 
Bagdad,  school  of,  154,  256 
Baghyo'o  (Muhammad),  395 
Baha  al-daula,  Buuaihid  Prince,  293 
Baha  al-dln  of  Aleppo,  191 
Baha  al-dtn  al-MnhallabI,  115 
Bah4  al-din  Muhammad  ibn  Yllsuf 

al-BaHni,  331  ' 
Bahrdm  Shall  ibn  Farrukh  Shah,  123 
Baibars  (Sultan),  193,  195,  197,  335, 

339-  397 
al-Baidavvi,  261 
al-Baihaqi,  227 
Baillie  and  Locketfc,  167 
al-B4jf,  262 
al-Balcharzi,  106 
al-Bakrl,  302 
al-Baiadhuri,  179,  180 
al-Balatt,  326 
al-Balawi,  319 
Bdnat    Sitdd,    poem    of    Ka'b    ibn 

Zuhair,  44 
Baliquera,  316 
Barbier  de  Meynard,  73,    168,    176, 

267,  298 
Barges  (the  Abb^),  371 
Bar-Hebr£eus,  209,  295 
Barmakides,  64,  71,  197 
BarqAq,  324,  35 1 
Barqllqiyj'a  (convent),  355 
Barq-YarAq,  SeljAqid  Sultan,  247 
Barshai  (Sultan),  332 
Earsflma,  410 

30 


Barzfiya  (the  physician),  212 

Bashir  (Amir),  413 

Bashshar  ibn  Burd,  67,  69,  86 

Basset  (R.),  115 

Bassora,    school    of,    137,    139,    146, 

150,  153,  155 
Batikin,  102 
al-BattanI,  296 
B4tyiir,  105 
Bauer,  210 
al-Baya,dl,  105 

B4yezld  I.,  Ottoman  Sultan,  356,  363 
Bayezld  II.,  Ottoman  Sultan,  375 
al-Bayyi',  223 
al-Bazz^z,  157 
Beaumier,  334 
Beer  (G.),  267 

Behnain  Benni  (Mgr.  Cyrille),  419 
Behz^d,  149 
Beni-'Abs.     See  'Abs. 
Beni- Amir,  27,  47 
Beni-A=ad,  n,  12 

Bcni-Iiildl,  romance  of  the,  405,  407 
Beni-Hudhail,  237 
Beni-Jafar,  41 
Beni-Marina,  31 
Beni-Mirdas,  family  of  the,  120 
Beni-Nahshal,  51 
Beni-Naubakht,  clan  of  the,  7 1 
Beni-Qurra,  97 
Beni-Salaman,  19 
Beni-Shaiban,  54 
Beni-Ziyan  of  Tilimsftn,  371 
Benna  (Philippe  Basile),  420 
B&ault  (01.),  359 
Eerbrugger  (Adrien),  391 
Berg  (Van  den),  248,  249 
Bernstein,  323 
Besthorn,  127 
Bible,  the,  3,  32,  34 
al-Bilbaisl,  397 
al-Biqal,  210 
al-Eirflnl,  302 
Bishr  ibn  Abi  KhSziro,  24 
Bistanl  (Eutrus),  416,  438 
Bisteris  (Sal'jm),  417 
Bland,  268,  369 
Bloohet  (E.),  200 
Bocthor  (ElyAs),  412 
Boer,  de,  267 
Bohlen,  (P.  de),  269 
Bokhtyishtf,  80,  306 


4S8 


INDEX 


Bonaparte,  3,  424,  437 

Biiok  of  Songs,   17,  48,  78,  184 

Boohs  of  the  Sdsdnian  Kings,  174 

Bourgade  (E.),  204 

Bouriant  (UOi  361 

Bresnier,  387 

Briggs,  (J.),  377 

Broch,  168 

Brockelinann  (0.),  154,  207,  266,  27S, 

291.  313.  322,  362,  367 
Bronnle  (P.),  261 
Briinnow  (R.),  17,  156,  184 
Bu'ath,  battle  of,  30 
Buffou,  3,  416 

al-Buhturl.  17,  79,  83,  84,  88,  148,  182 
Bujair,  brother  of  Ka,'b  ibn  Zuhair,  43 
Bukharl,  178,  217,  218,  219,  220,  339, 

373 
Bulaqiya,  401 

Bft  Medin.     See  AbA  Madyan. 
Bunan,  the  singer,  81 
al-Bundarl  (Abtl'1-Fath),  195 
alBuni,  317 
iJurcfa,  Mahomet's  mantle,  44;  Qasida 

of  the,  115 
Burt,  Prince  of  Damascus,  1 19 
al-Bur!  ('Abd  al-Ealilm),  112 
al-Burinl,  385,  417 
Burton  (Richard),  402 
al-BAsirl,  115,  192 
al-BustI,  105 
Buthaina,  48 

al  ButhanJ  (Natiq  bi'1-haqq),  252 
Butrus  Bistani,  416,  438 
Butrus  Karama,  419 
Buwaihids,  59,  91,  134,  150,  159,  184, 

224,  299,  309 
Bfizajani,  297 

Cakdin  (Alexander),  413,  423 
Cardin  de  Cardonne,  403 
Cardonne,  188 
Carlyle  (J.  E.),  114,  365 
Carmathians,  112,  375 
Garra  de  Vaux,  Baron,  183,  287 
Carusins,  207 
Casanova  (J.),  201 
Casiri,  345,  346 
Caspari,  289 
Cataneo,  412 

Causf'in  de  Perceval,  the  elder,  297, 
339,  402  ;  the  younger,  403,  413 


Cazotte  (Jacques),  403 

Chauvin,  401 

Chavis  (Dom  Denis),  403 

Cheilcho  (R.  P.),  157,354,418 

Chcrbonneau,  188,  333,  348,  396,  404 

Chosroes  I.  (AnAshirvan),  24,  61,  212, 

2S0 
Christian  Arabic  poets,  28  sqq. 
Christians  of  St.  Jolin  tiie  Baptist,  33 
Christians  of  Syria  and  Mesopotamia, 

34 
Chwolson,  314 
Cle'ment-Mullet  (J. -J.),  316 
Cock  of  the  Genii.     See  DIk  al-Jinn, 
Codera  (F.),  203,  204,  318 
Cool  (P.),  166 
Crassus,  280 
CroUa,  304 
Crusaders,  116,  194 
Cureton  (W.),  268,  337 
Cusa  and  Lagumina,  145 
Cyrus,  400 

DID  A  WAIH,  father  of  Ibn  al-Muqaffa , 

212 
al-Dahhan,  325 
Dahis,  war  of,  13,  16,  20 
Dalil^n  (Ahmad  ibn  Zaini),  432 
Dailamites,  59 
Dallla,  401 
Dallal  al-Kutub,  97 
al-DamIr!,  325,  370 
al-Da.ni,  25S,  259 
al-DaqqSq,  271 
al-Daraqutnl,  222 
al-Da,riml,  221 
Darius,  400 
Darwishiyya,  mosque    at  Damascus, 

384 
Dastugue,  General,  391 
Da'ud  the  ZMiirite,  251 
Da'tjd  al-Antakl,  210,  345,  398 
Da'ud  Efendi  AbH  Sha'r,  421 
Da'lid  ibn 'AH,  240 
Di'fid-pacha,    governor    of    Bagdad, 

435 
David,  6 

David  (Mgr.  Joseph),  418 
Days  of  the  Arabs,  32 
Defremery,  339 
De  Guignes.  276,  327,  342 
Dehoiain  (H. ),  340 


INDEX 


459 


Delphin  (G.),  430 

Derenbourg  (H.).  140,  156,  163,  194, 

201,  333 
Desgranges  aSnd,  413 
Destains,  402 
Devie,  404 

al-Dhahabi,  196,  341,  344,  362,  368 
d'Herbelot,  359 
DhU'l-Asba"  al-'Adw^nl,  21,  22 
Dha'l-Kiialasa,  idol,  12 
DhU'i-Nasabain,  173 
DhA'l-NUn,  the  Egyptian,  256,  270 
Dh<i'l-Rumma,  52 
Di'bil  al-Kliuza'I,  78,  79,  87 
Dibs  (Mgr.  Ytisuf  Ilyas),  417,  420, 

421 
Dieterici  (F.),  171,  285 
Dihya  ibn  Khalifa,  35 
Dihya  al-Kalbi,  173 
Dlk  al-Jinn,  89 
Dinarzade,  400 
al-Dinawarl,  154 

Dionysius,  Jacobite  patriarch,  209 
Dioscorides,  282 
al-DIrint,  279 

Dtwdns  of  the  Six  Poets,  17 
Biyd     al-dln    '  tsa,    brother    of    Ibn 

Khallikan,  102 
Diya  al-dln  Muhammad  al-Dimashql, 
■  250 
Diya  al-dln  Muhammad  al-Khazrajl, 

'   173 

Diyab  al-Itlidi,  385 
al-Diyarbakrl,  376 
d'Ohsson  (Mouradjea),  268 
Dombay  (Fr.  de),  275,  334 
Domestious,    the,    General    of     the 

K(jman  troops  in  Asia,  93 
Don  Pedro,  tyrant  of  Castile,  350 
Don  Sebastian,  King  of  Portugal,  390 
Dorn  (B.),  290 
Dozy  (R.),  188,   19s,  203,  204,   382, 

416 
Du-hait,  103 

Dugat  (G.),  382,  404,  416,  431 
Dutnyat  al-Qasr,  106 
Dunya,  slave  of  Dlk  al-Jinn,  90 

Ebionites,  33 
Eddi4(G.),  418 

Elephant,  the,  surname  of  the  singer 
YahyS,  58 


Ellas  I.  (the  Catholicos),  310 

Elias  (the  prophet),  340 

Elyfts  Bocthor,  412 

Enger,  243 

Epiphanios  Fadlallah,  425 

Erpenius  (Thomas),  167,  209,  387 

Esop,  409 

Essenians,  33 

Euclid,  281,  290,  291,  294,  322 

Eutychius,  187 

Eve,  67 

Exiga,  called  Kayzer,  431 

al-Fadil  (the  qadi),  313,  326 

Fadl  (the  poetess),  81 

Fadl  ibn  Rabl',  the  minister,  143,  238 

Fail  ibn  Sahl,  73 

Fadlallah   ibn   Muhibb  Allah,   383, 

384 
Fagnan  (E.),  I95.  344 
al-Fa'iz,  Fatimid  Caliph,  200 
Fakhr  al-daula,  159 
Fakhr     al-daula     Muhammad     ibn 

Jahlr,  105 
Fakhr  al-dln 'tsS  ibn  Ibrahim,  333 
Fakhr  al-dln  al-Razl,  320 
Fakhr  al-Mulk,  293 
Fakhr  al-Turk,  103 
Fakhriyya  (Madrasa),  197 
al-Fakihi,  177 
al-Farabl,  283 
Faransis  Marrish,  420 
al-Farghanl  (Alfraganus),  295 
Farhat  ( Jabril  ibn).     See  Jabrll  and 

Germanos. 
Faris  al-Shidyaq,  415,  438 
Faris  Nimr,  441 
al-Farisl,  150,  156,  157,  228 
al-Farra,  145,  151 
al-Farra  al-Baghawl,  228 
Fath  ibn  KhSqan,  the  minister,  152 
al-Fath  ibn  Khaqan,  the  Spaniard, 

203' 
Fdtiha,  first   chapter  of  the  Koran, 

36 
Fatimids,  94,  124,  200,  345 
Ferazdaq,  49,  50,  51,  52,  141 
Ferishta,  377 
Fihrist,  60,  179,  181,  186 
Fikrl-pacha,  424 
FIl  (Elephant),  surname  of  the  singer 

Yahya,  58 


460 


INDEX 


FirdausI,  Persian  poet,  195,  212,  406 

Firtlz-Abadt,  388,  415 

Fleischer,  168,  261,  338,  402 

Fluegel  (G.),  366,  367.  382 

Forget  (J.),  2S6 

Fraelin,  300,  342 

Fraser,  26S 

Frederic  of  Hohenstaufen,  290 

Fresnel,  20 

Freudenthal,  2S9 

Freund,  342 

Freytag,  17,  167,  200,  364,  412 

Fudala  ibn  Kilda,  25 

Furqdn,  name  of  the  Koran,  35 

Gabriel  (the  archangel),  34,  173 

Gabriel,  Bon  of  Bokhtyishu,  307 

Gagnier,  338 

Galen,  2S2,  291,  310,  311 

Galland  (Antoine),  402,  403,  426 

Garcin  de  Tassy,  279 

Gaultier  (Edouard),  402 

Gautier  (L.),  266 

Gayangos  (P.  de),  382 

George  (J.-F.-L.),  344 

Germanos  ibn  Farhat  (Jabril),  389 

Ghabra  (the  mare),  13 

al-Ghabrlnf,  333 

Ghailan  ibn '  CJqba,  sumamed  DhU'l- 

Kumrna,  52 
al-6harid  (musician),  48 
GhassSn,   princes  of,  Ghassanids,  6, 

II,  13,  29,  177 
Ghatafan,  tribe  of,  16 
Ghakll,  167,  261,  265,  266,  271,  272, 

289 
Gh4zan,  Mongol  Sultan,  337 
Ghazels,  103 
Ghazui,  3,  80 
al-Ghazzl,  109,  no 
Ghiyath  (al-Akhtal),  48 
Ghoul,  female  Jinn,  18 
Ghiilam     Tha'lab,    surname    of     al- 

Mutarriz,  153 
Gildemeister,  276 
Glaser,  6,  242 
Goeje  (M.   de),    180,   183,  205,   29S, 

299 
Goergens  and  Rohrioht,  192 
Goguyer,  171,  3S7 
Golden  Meadows,  the,  of  Mas'-ftd!,  176, 

183 


Gold  en  thai,  266 

Goldziher  (I.),  170,  240,  251   336 

Golius,  97,  287,  295,  364 

Gondisalvi,  267 

Gosche,  368 

Gospels,  the,  36,  54 

Gottwaldt,  184,  358 

Graberg  de  Hemso,  391 

Grangeret  de  Lagrange,  369,  412 

Gregorio,  207 

Guadagnoli,  173 

Guidi  (J.),  161,  188 

Guirgass  (W.),  155 

GundeshapAr  (School  of),    1 37,   2S0, 

306.  307 
Gunzbourg  (D.  de),  129 
Guyard  (Stanislas),  335,  338,  357 

Haarbrilcker,  268 
Habbalin  (Louise),  441 
Habib  the  carpenter,  398 
liabib  ibn  Aus  Abii  TammSm,  88 
Habieht,  402 
Hadal,  Jewish  tribe,  29 
al-HadS  (the  Caliph),  78 
al-Hadl  iia'1-Haqq,  242 
al-Hadira  (Qutba  ibn  Aus),  22 
Hadith,  61,  225 
Hadrian,  28 

Hafsa,  daughterof  the  Caliph'Umar, 
■  46 

Hagar,  4 
Haggada,  38 
Haitsma,  148 
al-Hajj  Ahmad  Aqit,  392 
al-Hajj  Ahmad  Efeudi,  435 
al-Hajjaj,  governor  of  'Ir^q,  52,  54) 

55.  65,  212  , 
al-Hajjaj  al-Hfisib,  281 
Hajjl   Khalfa,    121,    193,    337,    371, 

376,  382 
al-HajirS,  102 

JETakam,  supreme  arbitrator,  21 
Hakam  (Amir),  355 
al-Hakam  II.,  1S8,  315 
al-fiakim,  Fatimid  Caliph,  201,  205, 

226,  293,  297,  311 
Halevy  (J.),  6 

Ha.l!ma,  daughter  of  Fudala,  25 
a'l-Haliaj,  271 
Haniadhan,  battle  of,  97 
Hamadhani,  132  sqq.,  159 


INDEX 


461 


Hamaker,  360 

Hamdsa  of  Abu  Tammam,  17, 19,  20, 

■  83,  88,  162 

Hamdsa  of  al-Buhturi,  17,  83 
al-HamdtLnt,  301 
Hamdanids,  90,  91,  156 
Hainld,  Saminid  prince,  236 
Hamilton  (Ch.),  243 
Hamilton  (Terrick),  403 
Hammad  ibn  Abl  Sulaiman,  235 
Hammad  al-Hawiya,  10,  59 
Hammam  (Ferazdaq),  50 
Hammer    (J.    von),    108,    168,    201, 

267,  339,  373.  376 
Hamza  al-Isfahani,  183 
Hamza  Fathallah,  429 
Hanafites,    87,    124,    149,    164,    197, 

■  234 

Hanbalites,    104,  155,  181,  197,  239, 

■  250,  431 
Hanlfs,  26,  33 

Han?ala,  of  the  tribe  of  Tai,  23 

a'l-Harawi,  156,  272 

al-Harbl,  155 

Hard-az,  117 

Harim,  16 

Hariri,  134,  163,  165,  169,  260,  328, 

'  414,  445 

al-Harith  ibn  Jabala,  16 
al-Harith  ibn  Hilliza,  10 
al-Harith  ibn  Zaiim,  29 
Harthama,  governor  of  Khurasan,  144 
Hartmann  (Martin),  407 
Hartin  al-Kashid,  50,  64,  70,  72,  76, 

140,  141,  142,  144,  150,   236,  238, 

281,  306,  401 
Hasan  (Sultan),  324 
Hasan  Basrl,  62,  319 
Hasan  al-BArSnl,  385,  41 7 
a'l-Hasan,  son  of  Ibn  "Arabshah,  364 
Hasan  Efendi  Husnl,  423,  427 
Hasan  Efendi  Tanftq,  427^ 
Hasan  ibn  Muhammad  al-' Attar,  129 
al-Hasan  ibn'vjniar,  350 
al-Hasan  al-Ntsai  .(iri,  257 
Hasan-pacha,  379 
Hasan-pacha  Mahmud,  428 
Hasan  ibn  Wahb,  89 
Hasib  EarSm  al-dln,  401 
Hassan   ibn    Mufarrij,   chief  of    the 
■  tribe  of  Tai,  97 
Hassan  ibn  Thabit,  27,  43 


Hassftn  (Rizq  Allah),  419,  433 

Hashim,  family  of,  58,  106 

Hatim  of  the  tribe  of  Tai,  21,  23,  24 

al-Hauft,  260 

al-Hazirl  (AbU'l-Ma'ail  Sad),  97 

Henzius,  321 

Heraclius,  173 

Hibatallah,  minister  of  the  Caliph  al- 

Qa'im,  227 
Hibatallah  ibn  Sana  al-Mulk,  1 14 
Hidd,  chant  of  the  camel-driver,  5 
j/jjd,  satire,  7,  8 
Hind  bint  Naufa],  441 
Hippocrates,  282 
Hisham  (the  Caliph),  53,  54,  56,  58, 

61,  188 
Hisham,  son  of  the  Caliph  al-Hafcam, 

161 
Historians  of  the  Crusades,  192 
Hoberg(G.),  157 
Hochheim,  293,  294 
Holy  Ghost,  the,  34 
Homes  (H.  A.),  266 
Horowitz,  401 
Hospitallers,  338 

Houdas  (O.),  18S,  193,  391,  396,  432 
Houtsma,  1 53 
Hubaish  ibn  al-Hasan,  282 
HAd,  the  prophet,  409 
Hudhaifa,  Arab  general,  40 
Hudhail,  tribe  of,  18,  45 
Hudhailites.poemsof  the,  18,  146,238 
Hujr,  father  of  Imru'u'l-Qais,  1 1 
Hulagfl,    Mongol   Sultan,   103,    2cx3, 

202,  254,  295,  321 
Hulwan,  the  two  palm-trees  of,  65 
Humaid  al-T<isI,  77 
Hunain  ibn  Ishaq,  281,  307 
Hunduj.     See  Imru'u'l-Qais. 
Huraira,  27 
Hurthan  ibn  al  Harith.     See  Dhtl'l- 

Asba'  al- Adwanl. 
al-Hurthi  (Ibn  al-Mu'allim),  lOI 
Husain,  eon  of 'Ali,  47,  89,  104,  173 
liusain  Baiqara,  Tiraftrid  Sultan,  372 
Husain  Efendi  JisrI-zade,  435 
al-Husain    ibn   al-Qasim    (al-Mahdt 

li'dlni'Uah),  242 
al-Husain  ibn  Mansfir  al-Hallaj,  271 
HAsM,  15 
al-Husrt,  124 
al-Hutai'a,  24,  45 


462 


INDEX 


Hylander,  342 
Hypsicles,  322 

IbadS,  the,  of  Hira,  6,  26,  30 
"Ibadites,  sect  ot  the,  87 
Ibn'Abbad,  theminister,  132, 159, 184 
Ibn  al-'Abbdr,  204,  205 
Ibn 'Abbas,  io5,  256 
Ibn'Abd  al-Barr,  231 
Ibn'Abd  al-Hakam,  186 
Ibn'AbdAn,  127,  204 
Ibn'Abdus,  127 
Ibn'Abd  Rabbihi,  124,  215 
Ibn  Abl'1-Dam,  207 
Ibn  AbS'l-DInar,  385 
Ibn  Abi'l-Dunya,  214 
Ibn  Abl'l-Hadid,  104 
Ibn  Abl  Hajala,  344,  345 
Ibn  Abt  Hatim,  225 
Ibn  Abl'l-Khisai,  232 
Ibn  Abt  Najm',  252 
Ibn  Abl'l-Rabt,  282 
Ibn  Abi  Randaqa,  2S7 
Ibn  Abl'l-Rijal.       See  AbU'l-Hasan 

'All. 
Ibn  Abi  Shakir,  104 
Ibn  Ab!  Shukr,  295 
Ibn  Abi  Usaibia,  ig6 
Ibn  Abl  Zar,  333 
Ibn  Abl  Zaid,  237 
Ibn  al-Ahmar,  351 
Ibn  al-Ahnaf,  70,  73.  78 
Ibn  Aibak  al-Dimyatt,  230 
Ibn  Ajurrum,  387 
Ibn  al-Akfanl,  370 
Ibn  al-'Aliat  Hasan  ibn 'All,  85 
Ibn  al-'Amld  (al-Makln),  208 
Ibn  al-Anbarl,  153,  164,  170 
Ibn 'Arabahah,  358,  363 
Ibn  al-A'r4bl,  144,  151,  152 
Ibn  al-'Arabl,  261,  277,  306 
Ibn'Arata,  351 
Ibn  Arfa  Ra'sahn,  317 
Ibn'Asakir,  199,  387 
Ibn  al-Ash'ath,  65,  178 
Ibn'Askar,  391 

Ibn  al-Athlr  (Diya  al-dln),  169 
Ibn  al-Athlr  ('Izz  al-din),    142,   153, 

169,  199,  206,  338,  358,  368,  379 
Ibn  al-Athlr  (Majd  al-dtn),  169,  229 
Ibn  al-'Awwam,  316 
Ibn  Babashad,  l56 


Ibn  Babtlya,  242 

Ibn  BadrCln,  128,  204 

Ibn  Bairam,  386 

Ibn  Baitar,  196,  316 

Ibn  Eajja  (Avenpace),  288 

Ibn  Balian,  367 

Ibn  Bashkuwal,  204 

Jbn  Baasara,  85 

Ibn  Batllta,  278,  336,  340,  392 

Ibn  al-Bawwab,  the  caligrapher,  157 

Ibn  Bokhtyishtf  ('Ubaidallah),  311 

Ibn  Butlan,  310,  311 

Ibn  al-i)ahhan,  163,  247 

Ibn  al-Daiba,  374 

Ibn  Darest,  106,  107 

Ibn  al-Daya,  187 

Ibn  Dihya  al-Kalbl,  173 

Ibn  Duqmaq,  357 

Ibn  Duraid,  145,  148,  149,  156,  386 

Ibn  Dntustawaih,  149 

Ibn  Fadlallah  al-'Umari,  326 

Ibn  Fadlan,  300 

Ibn  Falid,  397 

Ibn  al-Fahham,  423 

Ibn  al-Faqih,  299 

Ibn  al-Faradi,  203,  204 

Ibn  al-Farid  fUmar),  114,  330,  417 

Ibn  Farhun,  396 

Ibn  Fai-is,  159 

IbnFirroh.    fe  al-Qasina  ibnFirroh. 

Ibn  al-Furat,  347 

Ibn  Ftlrak,  224 

Ibn  al-Habbariyya,  106,  108 

Ibn  Habib,  346 

Ibn  al-Haitham,  293 

Ibn  Hajar  al-'Asqalanl,  356,  362,  433 

Ibn  al-Hajib,  172,  399 

Ibn  al-Hajjaj,  85 

Ibn  al-Haiawi,  103 

Ibn  Haindis,  125 

Ibn  Hamdun,  163 

Ibn  Hanbal,   155,  216,  239,  240,  318, 

319 
Ibn    Hani'.       See    Muhammad    ibn 

Hani'. 
Ibn  Harma  Ibrahim  ibn  'AH,  87 
Ibn  al-Haslna,  126 
Ibn  al-Haya  (Sawar  ibn  Auta),  54 
Ibn  Hayyfls,  109,  120 
Ibn  Hazm,  250 
Ibn  Hibban,  223 
Ibn  Hijja,  324,  398 


INDEX 


463 


Ibn  Hisha,m,  175,  261,  325,  387 

Hm  Hubaira,  189,  207,  259,  303 

Ibn  Hudhail  al-'AUaf,  71 

Ibn  al-Idhari,  203 

Ibn  lehaq  (Muhammad),  175 

Ibn  Isra'il,  1 19' 

Ibn  lyUs,  374 

Ibn  Jahwar,  127 

Ibn  al-Jauzi,  102,  208,  230,  279,  318 

Ibn  al-Jawaliqi,  162 

Ibn  al-Jazarl,  356 

Ibn  Jazla,  311 

Ibn  Jinnt,  156 

Ibn  Jubair,  304 

Ibn  al-Kalbl,  178,  179 

Ibn  Kathlr,  344,  359 

Ibn  Khafaja,  128 

Ibn  Khdqdn,  203,  255 

Ibn  Khalaf  al -Saraqiistf,  25S 

Ibn  Kh^lawaih,  153,  156 

Ibn  Khaldfin,  172,  186,  349,  350,  351, 

352 

Ibn  Khallas,  129 

Ibn  Kliallikan,  69,  89,  92,  101,  102, 
116,  118,  119,  131,  170,  197  sqq., 
206,  227,  259,  2S3,  319,  325,  343, 

376 
Ibn  Khamis,  272 
Ibn  al-Khashshab,  348 
Ibn  al-Khattb,  345 
Ibn  al-Khatib  al-Qsamtln!,  347 
Ibn  al-Khayy^t,  109 
Ibn  Khum£rtaih  the  Himyarite,  112 
Ibn  Khurdadbeh,  298  ' 
Ibn  ICushSjim,  99 
Ibn  Maja,  221 
Ibn  Maimtln,  312 
Ibn  Makftuis,  324 
Ibn  M^kAla,  227 
Ibn  Malik  al-Jayy^ni,  171 
Ibn  al-Mamm4ti,  201,  202 
Ibn  Mandah,  178 
Ibn  Ma'rtif  (the  qftdl),  223 
Ibn  Marwdn,  Prince  of  MayyMSriqln, 

227 
Ibn  al-MarzubS,n,  156 
Ibn  Marz<iq,  392 
Ibn    MSsawaih.        See    YahyS    ibn 

M^sawaih. 
Ibn  Maskawaih,  205 
Ibn  Matrth,  116 
Ibn  Mattflya  al-Wahidi,  260 


Ibn  Ma'tftq,  332 

Ibn  Mihrfin,  255 

Ibn  al-Mu'allim,  loi 

Ibn  Mukarram,  386 

Ibn  MunSr  al-Tarabulns!,  119 

Ibn  Munqidh  (Usama),  193 

Ibn  al-Muqaifa',  211,  212 

Ibn  al-MuqrJ,  348 

Ibn  al-Miirahhai,  328 

Ibn  al-Mu'ta'zz,  84,  85 

Ibn  al-Nablh,  114 

Ibn  al-Nahhas,  341 

Ibn  al-Najjkr,  230 

Ibn  al-Naqlb,  342 

Ibn  Nubata,  130,  323 

Ibn  Nubdta,  the  preacher,  130 

Ibn  al-Qadl,  390 

Ibn  Qadl  Shuhb;',,  1 75,  362 

Ibn  al-QaisarS,n},  120,  228 

Ibn  Qalaqis,  113 

Ibn  Qanbar,  'jt,^  74 

Ibn  al-Q^ss,  23S 

Ibn  Qayyim  al-Jaiiziyya,  336 

Ibn  al-QiftI,  195 

Ibn  Qurqftl,  233 

Ibn  Qutaiba,    10,   14,  133,   154,  212, 

256 
Ibn  al-Qatiyya,  1S8 
Ibn  QiitlAbugha,  366 
Ibn  Qnzman,  12S 
Ibn  al-Rahib,  209 
Ibn  al-Rashlq,  17,  124,  172 
Ibn  RidwS,n,  310,  311 
Ibn  al-R4mI,  82,  185 
Ibn  Rushd  (Averroes),  2S8 
Ibn  Rusteh,  299 
Ibn  al-Sa'atl,  117 
Ibn  al-Sabb4gh,  245 
Ibn  Sab'in,  290 
Ibn  Sa'd,  177 

Ibn  al-Saffslr  of  M4tidtn,  118 
Ibn  Sahl,  129 
Ibn  Sa'id  al-Maghribl,  202 
Ibn  al-Sa'igh,  170 
Ibn  al-Saldh,  230 
Ibn  Saiama,  257 
Ibn  al-Saliar,  229 
Ibn  Sana  al-Mulk,  114 
Ibn  al-Sarraj,  149,  210 
Ibn  Sayyid  al-Na?,  339 
Ibn  Serapion,  299 
Ibu  Shakir  al-Kutubl,  198,  343 


464 


INDEX 


Ibn  Sharaf  al-Qairawfi.n!  al-Judhaml, 

124 
Ibn  Shihab,  surname  of  al-Zuhrl,  61 
Ibn  Shihna,  358 
Ibn  SbirshSr,  155 
Ibn  SIda,  387 
Ibn  al-Sikkit,  152,  154 
Ibn  Sina  (Avicenna),  285 
Ibn  Suwaid,  hospital  of,  at  Damascus, 

327 
Ibn  al-TaftwldhS,  100,  lOI 
Ibn  Tabataba,  94,  333 
Ibn  Taghribirdl,  202,  365 
Ibn  Taimiyya   (the   qadl),   328,  334 

sqq. 
Ibn  al-Tayyib,  310 
Ibn  al-Tharada,  327 
Ibn  al-Tiqtaqa,  333 
Ibn  Tuf'ail,  28i) 
Ibn  Tuniart,  251 
Ibn'Unain,  192 
Ibn  al-'Uzair,  153 
Ibn  Wadih  al-Ya'qabi,  29S 
Ibn  al-Wahshiyya,  314 
Ibn  Waki";  96 
Ibn  al-Wakll,  328 
Ibn  Waliad,  160 
Ibn  al-WardI,  279,  342 
Ibn  Ya'ish,  170 
Ibn  Yakhlaftan,  129 
Ibn  Ydsuf,  187 
Ibn  ZabEila,  177 
Ibn  Zafar,  210 
Ibn  Zaidftn,  126,  127 
Ibn  Zailaq,  328 
Ibn  Zanianain,  256 
Ibn  al-Zanjabtlt,  337 
Ibn  al-Zaqqdq  al-Bulqlnl,  121 
Ibn  Zar,  the  physician,  282 
Ibn  al-Zayyat,  the  minister,  213 
Ibn  al-Zubair,  340 
Ibn  Zulaq,  187 
Ibn  Zunbul,  375 
Ibrahim,  Ottoman  Sultan,  330 
Ibrahim,  Prince,  324 
Ibrahim,  brother  of  Ismail  ibn  Yasar, 

Ibrahim,  surnamed   the  Pure   Soul, 

151 
Ibrahlm-bey  MarzOq,  423 
Ibrahim  al-Dasflqi,  427 
Ibrahim  al-Mausili,  77,  78 


Ibrahim     of     Nabulus,     Tyrant    of 

Damascus,  365 
Ibrahim  ibn 'All  ibn  Harma,  87 
Ibrahim   ibn    Hasdai  of    Barcelona, 

266 
Ibrahim  ibn  YAsnf  ibn  Tashifin,  128, 

203 
Idris,  the  'Alid,  298 
Idrls  11.,  Prince  of  Malaga,  127 
Idrlsl,  303 

Ihyd'ulUm  al-dtn,  91,  266 
al-'j.]i  ('Adud  al-din),  342 
Ikhshidites,  91,  94 
Ikhtiyar  al-dln  iijn  Ghiyath  al-din  al- 

Husaini,  372 
Ikhwan  al-Safa  ,285 
'Imad  al-din  (the   Katib),    100,    106, 

114,  1S9,  195 
'Imad    al-diii,  Qara-Arsian,  Urtuqid 

Prince,  275 
"Imad  al-dln  Zangi,  119 
'Imadiyya  (school),  190 

Imam  al-Haramain,  245,  247,  265 
Imru'u'1-Qais,  ID,   II,  15,  16,  26,  29, 
85,  146 

Inoegeo,  207 

al-Iqlishl,  233 

'  Irdqiyydt,  108 

'Isa  ibn'All,  212 

'isa  ibn'All,  the  physician,  309 

'Isa  ibn'Umar  al-Thaqafl,  138 

'Isa  ibn  Sinjar  al-Hajirl,  102 

Isa  ibn  Yahya  (Ab1i  Sahl),  309 
'Isawis,  270 

Ishaq  ibn  Hunain,  2S2 

Ishaq  ibn'imran,  307,  308 

Isliaq  al-Mansili,  77,  78,  298 

Isiiaq  ibn  Hahawaih,  240 

Ishaq  ibn  Sulaimau,  308 

al-Ishaql,  383 

al-Ishblll,  318 

Ishmael,  4 

Iskandar  al-'Azar,  439 

Iskandar  Efendi  Shalhub,  440 

Isma'll,    Prince     of     Granada,    345, 

350 
Isma'll,  the  Himyarite  Sayyid,  86 
Isma'll  Efendi  Marl,  427  " 
Ismail  ibn  'Abbas,  Sultan  of  Yemen, 

388 
Isma'il  ibn  Athlr,  128 
Ismail  ibn  Bulbul,  152 


INDEX 


465 


Isma'll  ibn  Hammed,  235 

Isma'll  ibn  Qasim  Abd'l-  Atahiya,  74 

IsmS.'11-pacha,  440 

Isma'll  ibn  Yasar,  56 

Israel,  6 

Istifan  al-Duwaihl  (Mgr.),  389,  419 

lyad,  tribe  of,  24 

'lyad  (theqadl),  232 

'Izz  al-daula,  Buwaihid  Prince,  134 

'Izz    al-din,    uncle    of    Usama    Ibn 

Munqidh,  194 
"Izz  al-d!n.  Emir  of  Yemen,  379 
'Izz  al-dln'Abd  al-Hamtd  ibn  Abf  1- 

Hadid,  104 
'Izz  al-din 'Aibak,  Prince  of  Sarkhad, 

118 
"Izz  al-dln  Aidamir    (the  alchemist), 

370 
'Izz  al-din  Aidamir  (Amir),  196 
"Izz  al-dln  al-Dlrlnl,  279 
"Izz  al-dln  al-Maqdisl,  279 
"Izz  al-dln  Mdsak  al-Salahl,  172 

al-Jabarti,  423,  424 

Jabir  ibn  Hayyan,  313 

Jabril  (the'archangel  Gabriel),  34 

Jabrll  ibn  Farhat,  389 

Ja'far  the  Barmakide,  77,  401 

Ja'far,    son    of    the  Caliph    Manstar, 

65 
Ja'far  ibn  Hinzaba  (tbe  Vizier),  223 

Ja"far  Sadiq  (the  imam),  313 

Ja'far  ilDn  Shams  al-Khiiafa al-Afdall, 

121 
al-jaghm!ni,  294 
al-Jahiz,  213 

jahi?iyya,  sect  of  the,  213 
Jahn  (G.)>  14° 
al-Jaihanl,  300 
Jalal  al-daiila  Nasr,  Prince  of  Aleppo, 

120 
Jaiai  al-din 'All  ibn  al-Saffar,  1 18 
Jaiai  al-din  al-Bulqlni,  357 
Jalal  al-dln  al-MahalU,  368 
Jalal  al-dln   Mankoblrti,   Sultan  of 

Khwarizm,   1 93 
Jaiais,  the  two,  368 
Jamai  al-dln  al-Isfahani,  248 
Jamai  al-dln  Muhammad  ibn  Salim 

ibn  Wasil,  195 
Jamai  al-dln  al-Shaibanl  (the  vizier), 

305 


Jamai  al-dln  Yahya  al-Sarsarl,  104 
Jamai  al-dln  Yahya  ibn  Ma'trfth,  1 16, 

117 
Jamharat  ash'dr  al-'Ardb,  17 
jami,  Persian  poet,  272,  357 
Jamil  ibn'Abdallah,  48 
al-Janadl,  375 
Janan,  72 

al-Jannabl,  378,  379,  383 
Jaqmaq  (Amir  of  Damascus),  363,  364 
Jaqmaqlyya   (School)   at   Damascus, 

381 
Jarlr,  49  sqq. 
Jarir,   son  of 'Abd  al-Masih  or'Abd 

al-'Uzza.     See  Mutalammis. 
al-Jarjara'l  (the  vizier),  205 
al-Jarinl,  145 

al-Jarrar  (Abii'l-'Atahiya),  74 
Jarrett,  368 

Jarwal  ibn  Aus  al-Hutai'a,  44 
al-Jassas  al-Razl,  256 
al-Jaubari,  317 
Jaudar,  Moroccan  pacha,  395 
Jauhar,  Fatimid  general,  95 
al-Jauhari,  157,  386 
al-Jazzar,  309 
Jengiz  Khan,  103,  193,  2CK3 
Jews,  33,  38,  39 
Jewish  Arabic  poets,  28  sqq. 
Jinns,  7i  15 

Jirjls  Efendi  Tanntls,  417 
Johannsen  (Th.),  375 
Jonas  (Yllnus),  Persian  singer,  48 
Jones  (John  Harris),  187 
Jong  (de),  166,  228,  341 
Joseph,  314 
Jourdain,  321,  347 
al-Jubba'i,  264 
al-Julyanl,  275 
al-Jnnaid,  271 
Juraij  (George),  grandfather  of  Ibn 

al-RlimJ,  82 
Jurjanl,  32  2,  343 
Jurjl  Efendi  Zaidan,  424,  440 
Justinian,  11,  234 
al-Juwainl,  245 
Juynboll,  241,  305,  365 

Ka'b  ibn  Ju'ail,  48,  49 

Ka'b  ibn  Zuhair,  15,  43,  115 

Ka'ba,  ii,  10,  147 

KafUr,  name  given  to  negroes,  100 


466 


INDEX 


Kaffir  the  Ikshidite,  91,  187,  223 
Kaisaniyj'a,  Kaisanites,  Shi'ite  sect, 

48,87 
al-Kaiwanl,  329 
al-KalabadhI,  225 
Kalatii,   son    of    Chakhbar,    Indian 

prince,  300 
Kalb,  tribe  of,  35 
KalUa  and  Dimna^  107,  202,  211 
Kamal  al-dln  ibn  al-Nablh,  1 14 
Kamal  al-dln  Muhammad,  376 
Ivamai  al-dln  al-SharishI,  260 
Kam^l  al-dln  'Umar   ibn    al- Adlm, 

historian  of  Aleppo,  199 
Kdmil  of  Ibn  al-Athir,  206 
Kdmil  of  al-Mnbarrad,  146,  156 
KtLiniliyya  (madrasa)   at  Cairo,    1 73, 

194,  231 
Karam  (Yiisuf  Butrus),  433 
al-Karkhl,  293 
Karle  (J.),  1S7 

Karramijja,  sect  of  the,  257,  321 
A'aslishdf,  168,  262 
Katib    (secretary),    surname    of    the 

singer  Yfinus,  48 
Katib,  the,  "Imad  al-din.     See 'Imad 

al-din. 
al-Kd.tibl  (Najm  al-dln  'All),  290 
Kay  (H.  Cassels),  201,  375 
Keijzer  (H.),  244,  24S 
Kellgren,  171 
Kerbela,  89 

Khadlja,  wife  of  Mahomet,  33 
al-Khafajl,  383 
Khair  al-din  al-TdnisI,  430 
Khaiawaih,  91 
Khalaf  al-Ahmar,  19,  20 
KhS,lid,  general  under  AbA  Bakr,  44, 

62 
Khalid  ibn  Yazld,  Omeyyad  prince, 

62,  88,  313 
Khalidls,  the  two,  185 
Khalll,   5,   138,    140,   150,    15s,    159, 

211,  212 

Khalll  ibn  Aibak  al-Safadl,  343 
Khalll  Efendi  Naqqish,  440 
Khalll  al-Khflrl,  417,438 
Khalll  Sarkls,  419,  439 
Khalll  ibn  Shihln  al-Zahirl,  369 
al-KhansS,  15,  16,  27,  28,  54,  152 
^/tartt^a  of 'Imdd  al-dln,  100,  106 
Kharijites,  141 


al-Khassaf,  236 

al-Khat!b  al-BaghdMl,  198,  227,  230 

al-Khatib  al-Tibrlzl,  228 

al-Khattabl,  223 

al-Kh§,winjI,  289 

Khazraj,  tribe  of,  27 

al-Khazrajl  (Diya  al-dln  Muham- 
mad),  173    ■ 

Khidr,  340 

al-Khiraqi,  240 

Khirniq,  sister  of  Tarafa,  14 

Khitat,  201,  360 

al-Khiyarl,  385 

Khumarawaih,  1 87 

al-Khwarizml  (Abd  'Abdallah),  292 

al-Khwarizml  (Abft  Bakr),  131,  132 

al-Khwarizml  (Muhammad  ibnMflsa), 
297 

Kinda,  the  race  of,  II 

al-Kindl,  297,  301 

al-KisS,'l,  140,  144,  150 

Kitdb  of  Slbawaih,  139,  140 

Kitdb  al-Ai/Mni,  17,  48,  78,  1S4 

Kitdh  al-Badi' ,  84 

al-Kiyfl,  al-Harrasi,  247 

Koran,  32,  33  sqq.,  50,  53,  57,  61, 
68,  91,  93,  119,  130,  134,  137,  13S, 
^142,  143,  212,  253 

Koran,  interpretation  of,  254  sqq. 

Koran  of  Abil'l-'Aia  al-Ma'arrl,  99 

Koschut,  164 

Kosegarten,  iS,  340,  361,  369 

Krehl(L.),  382 

Kremer  (Alfred   von),   71,   163,   171, 

175.  35S 
Kryldff,  419 

Kubra  (Najm  al-dln),  276 
Ktifa,  School  of,  150 
al-Kflhl,  296 
Kilkburl,  102 
al-Kulinl,  242 
al-Kumait,  58 
Kushajim,  93 
Kftshy^r  ibn  Labban,  296 
Kutbayyir,  48,  52 
al-Kutubl,  122,  329,-343 

LaeJba  Hashim,  441 

Labid,  10,  41  sqq. 

La  Fontaine,  li'ables  of,  423 

Laila,  the  beloved  of  Majnftn,  48 

Laiia,  mother  of  al-Akhtal,  48 


INDEX 


467 


LailS,  al-Akhyaliyya,  53 

Laith  ibn  Muzaffar,  139 

Lakhniites  of  Hira,  30 

al-Lalaka'!,  239 

Lalande,  296 

LdTfiiyyat  al-  Ajam,  97 

Ldmiyi/at  at- Arab,  20,  97 

Landberg  (C.  von),  igo 

Lane  (E.  W.),  402,  405 

Lane-Poole  (Stanley),  37 

Langlea,  360,^  374 

Laqit  ibn  Ya'mur,  24 

Lasinio  (F.),  289 

Leclero  (L.),  316 

Lemming  (P.),  370. 

Lepsius,  139 

Le  Strange  (Guy),  299,  370 

Lippert  (J.),  196 

Lisin  al-dln  ibn  al-KhatIb,  345,  38 1 

Lisdn  al-  Arab-,  386 

Lubnd,  celebrated  by  Qais  ibn  Dharlh, 

47 
Lu'lu',  general  of  the  Ikhshldites,  91 
LuqmAn,  Fables  of,  409 
Luviah  aZ-Mulah,  98 
Ldt  ibn  Yahya,  61 
LuzAm  md  lam  yaZzam,  99 

al-MABAEi  (Zain  al-dln),  377 

al-Mada'inJ,  179,  214,  215 

Ma'dan  ibn  Kathlr  al-Ballsl,  123 

Maff/idzi,  174 

al-Mahamill,  239 

Mahan,  father  of  Ibrahim  al-Mausill, 

77 
Mahb<iba,  singing-woman,  82 
al-Mahdl,  the  Caliph,  17,  60,  66  sqq., 

70,  74.  75.  77.  78,  142,  151.  23s 
al-Mahdl,  Fatimid  Caliph,  308" 
al-MahdS  (Shaikh),  425,  426 
Mahdt,  the,  424 
al-Mahdl  li-dlnillah,  242 
MahmM,  Seljuqid  Sultan,  97,  128 
Malimlid  Auls,  428 
Malimtld  ibn  Nasr,  Prince  of  Aleppo, 

120 
Mahmftd  ibn 'Umar  (Shaikh),  393 
Malimdd  Efendi  Hamza,  421 
Malimtld  Efendi  Mujlr,  427 
Mahm<id,theGhaznavid,  105, 189,302 
Malimtld  al-Qftsl,  423 
MahmM  Rashad,  427 


Mahomet,  12,  13,  15,  25,  26,  32,  33 
sqq.,  41,  43,  45,  104,  129,216,  220, 
229,  232,  266,  339,  342 

al-Maidanl,  167 

Maimonides,  312 

Maimdn,  father  of  Ibrahim  al- 
Mausill,  77 

Maimiln  ibn  Qais  al-A'sha,  26 

Majd  al-dln  ibn  Abl  Shakir,  104 

Majd  al-dln  al-Waiz  al-Witrl,  104 

Majnun,  the  madman  of  the  Beni 
Amir,  47 

Makhliif  ibn  'All  al-Bilball,  392 

Makl  al-Qaisl,  257 

al-Makln,  208 

Malik,  brother  of  Mutammim,  44 

Malikibn  Anas,  188,217,232,236322. 

Malikites,  236 

al-Malik  al-'Adil,  169 

al-Malik   al-Afdal,    son    of    Saladin, 

169,  337 
Malik  al-Ashraf,  195 
Malik  al-Ashraf,  Prince  of  Mosul,  122 
Malik  al-Ashraf  Barsbai,  3155 
Malik    al-Ashraf    Mfisa,    Prince    of 

Naslbln,  114 
al-Malik  al-'Azlz,  son  of  Saladin,  173, 

193.  3'3 
Malik 'Aziz  Yftsuf,  355 
al-Malik  al-Kamil,  116,  173,  269,  316 
Malik  Mansfir,  Prince  of  Haniat,  207 
Malik  Mans&r,  Urtuqid  Prince,  119, 

323,  337 
Malik   Mas'M   Salah   al-dln,   Ayyti- 

bite  Prince  of  Yemen,   112 
Malik  Mu'ayyad   Shaikh,   Sultan  of 

Egypt.  355 
Malik     Mu'azzam,     the     victor     of 

Mansura,    117,   193 
Malik  al-Mu?affar,  ]?rince  of  Hamat, 

195 
Malik  Muzaffar  Amir  ibn  Tahir,  374 
Malik  al-Muzaffar  Ghazl,  Prince  of 

Mayyafariqin,   207 
Malik  Nasir,  116,  200,  323,  327 
Malik  Nasir,  Sultan  of  Egypt,  334 

«??■.  338'.  345.  370 
Malik  Nasir  Abft'l-Mu?;affar  Ydsnl, 

Prince  of  Aleppo,  123 
Malik  Nasir,  the  AyyUbite,  Prince  of 

Aleppo,  118 
Malik  Nasir  Da'ftd,  lord  of  Karak,  103 


468 


INDEX 


Malik  Nasir  Faraj,  352,  365 
al-Malik  al-Nasir  Yflsuf,  121 
Malik  Shah,  106,  247,  269,  294 
al-Malik  al-Zahir,  169,  196,  201,  274 
Malik   ZShir.     See  Barq<iq  and  Jaq- 

maq. 
Malik  Zahir  Tatar,  Sultan  of  Egypt, 

355 

Ma'inar  ibn  al-Muthanna,  I41 

al-Ma'ra<in,  the  Caliph,  77, 78,  80,  88, 
140,  147,  151,  176,  263,  281,  292 

al-Ma'mdn,  the  Almohad,  129 

al-Ma'mtin,  the  vizier,  28S 

Man,  son  of  Za'ida,  70 

Maudaites,  33 

Manfred,  King  of  Sicily,  195 

Manger,  364 

Mania  or  Mavia,  Queen  of  the  Sar- 
acens, 7 

Manjak,  the  Anilr,  330 

Mansftr,  the  Caliph,  57,  64,  65,  151, 
154,  175,  212 

al-Mansftr,  Fatimid  Caliph,  95 

Manstir,  grandson  of  Saladin,  191 

Mansflr  ibn  Ishilq,  Siiioanid  Prince, 
308 

al-Mansiir-billah,  252 

Maqdma^  lecture,  1 33 

al-Maqqari,  202,  ^So  sqq. 

MaqrSzl,  201,  347,335.  360  sqq.,  365, 
426 

Maracci,  335 

Marcel  (J.-J.),  413,  425,  426 

Mardrus  (Dr.),  402 

al-Marghinanl,  242 

Margoliouth  (D.  S.),  170,  305 

Marianus,  the  mnnk,  62,  313 

Marida,  slave  of  Hardn  al-Eashid,  77 

al-Marill,  394 

al-MarrakushI,  294 

Marthiya,  elegy,  28 

Ma'rdf  and  Fatima,  401 

Marwan,  41,  51,  69 

Marwan  ibn  Abi  Hafsa,  69 

al-Marwazl  (the  minister),  236 

Maryam  Mizhir,  441 

Maslama,  son  of  Hisham,  59 

Maslama  al-Majrltl,  315 

Masmflda,  Berber  tribe,  252 

Masqueray,  202 

Masriir,  the  eunuch,  401 

Mas'^d,  Ghaznavid  Sultan,  302 


Mas' Ad,  SeljAqid  Sultan,  ,97 
Mas'ftd,  Urtnqid  Prince,  317 
Mas'M,  'Uyllnid  Prince,  112 
Mas'ild,   companion  of  the  Prophet, 

182 
Mas'ftd  al-Bayadi,  105 
Mas'ftd  al-Bilalt,  259 
Mas'tidJ,  176,  182,  400 
Matlra,   meadows  of,  near  Samarra, 

Malta  ibn  Yftnus,  282,  284 

al-Maturldl,  264 

Maulawy  'Abdu'1-Haqq,  253 

Mavia.     See  Mania. 

Mawdlt,  103 

al-Mawardi,  243 

Mawiyya,  sister  of'Abid,  23 

al-Mazdlim,  Court  of  Appeal,  85 

al-Mazini,  146,  303 

Mazliim  (Mgr.  Maximus),  421 

Mehren  (A.  P.),  287,  290,  340,  342, 

415 
Meissner,  2S7 
Menelaus,  295 
Meursinge,  368 
Michaud,  347 
Mihyar  ibn  Marzftya,  86 
Mlkha'll'Abd  al-Sayyid,  441 
MiUha'il  Sabbagh,  411 
Miqyds,  Kilometer,  160 
Mirdas,  son  of  Abd'Amir,  28 
Mirdas,  family  of.    See  Beni  Mirdas. 
al-Mirdasi,  187 

Mirza  Kazhem  {Kasem)-beg,  254, 443 
al-MissisI,  94 
Mon9a"da,  125 
Mongols,  III,  119, 186,  200,  305,  328, 

334.  337 
Montague  (Wortley),  402 
Month,  the  deaf  (Rajab),  23 
Moravids,  127,  232,  252,  265,  288,  392 
Moses,  29 
Moura  (Fr.  Joz^  de  Santo  Antonio), 

334,  391 
Muadh  ibn  Jaba],  40 
al-Mu'afa  ibn  Zakariyya,  241 
Muallaqdt,  10,  17,  26,  41,  59,  162 
Mu'arrij  ibn'Amr  al-Sadfisl,  140 
Mu'awiya,  brother  of  al-Khansa,  28 
Mu'awiya,  the  Caliph,  41,  46,  59,  60 
al-Mu'ayyad-billah    Ahmad    ibn   al- 

Husain,  242 


INDEX 


469 


Mu'ayyid  al-daula,  159 
al-Mubarrad,  74,  146  sqq.,  15S1  15^ 
Mubashshir  ibn  Fatik,  2S7 
Mudar,  pagans  of,  24  ;  tribes  of,  58 
al-Mufaddal  al-Dabbi,  17,  60,  151 
Mufaddaiiyydi,  17,  151 
al-Mufld,  242 

Muhalhil,  inventor  of  the  qafida,  12 
Muhallab  ibn  Abl  Sufra,  56 
al-MuhallabI,    the    minister,   91,    93, 

94.  184 
Miihallek,  27 

Muhammad,  the  Prophet.     See  Ma- 
homet, 
Muhammad  I.,  Ottoman  Sultan,  363 
Muhammad    IV.,   Ottoman    Sultan, 

3S2 
Muhammad  V.,  Prince  of  Granada, 

345 
Muhammad,    son    of    the    Hanafite 

woman,  87 
Muhammad,    brother  of  Ismail    ibn 

Y'asslr,  57 
Muhammad,    son    of     Malik    Shah, 

266 
Muhammad,  son  of  the  Caliph  Man- 

siir,  73 
Muhammad  (Sultan)  of  Shlraz,  357 
Muhammad, 'Uyftnid  Prince,  112 
Muhammad  AbA  Ua's  al-Nasirl,  431 
Muhammad ' Alawl-bey,  428 
Muhammad 'AH,  422,  424 
Muhammad  Amin  Fikrl-bey,  427 
Muhammad 'Ayyad  al-Tantaw!,  428 
Muhammad  Badr-bey  al-Baqlt,  429 
Muhammad  al-Bakrt,  394 
Muhammad-bey  FarSd,  42^ 
Muhammad  al-Bilbaist,  397 
Muhammad  al-Bukharl,  178 
Muhammad  al-Bursawl.qadl  of  Cairo, 

378 
Muhammad  Efendi  Abidin,  422 
Muhammad  Efendi  Haraid,  427 
Muhammad   Efendi   Kamil    al-Kaf- 

rawi,  428 
Muhammad  Hilal  Efendi,  435 
Muhammad  ibn  al- Abbas  al-YazidI, 

147 
Muhammad  ibn  Abdallah,  236 
Muhammad   ibn  'Abd   al-Karlm  al- 

MughJlI,  393 
Muhammad  ibn  Abl  Hafs,  204 


Muhammad     ibn     Ahmad    al-Mus- 

ta'mir  (Qutrub),  140 
Muhammad  ibn  'All  al-ZauzanI,  196 
Muhammad  ibn  al- Amid,  134 
Muhammad  ibn  Hablb,  141 
Muhammad  ibn  Hani',  95 
Muhammad  ibn  Ishaq  of  Nlshapftr, 

264 
Muhammad  ibn  Muslim  al-Zuhrl,  61 
Muhammad    ibn    MustafS,    ibn    al- 

Klioja  Kamiil,  431 
Muhammad  ibn  al-Qasira  al-Ghazzl, 

248 
Muhammad  ibn  Rahhal,  391 
Muhammad  ibn  Saww^r  ibn  Isra'il, 

119 
Muhammad  ibn  SulaimSn  al-Tilim- 

sanl,  123 
Muhammad  ibn  Sulaimin  al-Tdnisl, 

428 
Muhammad  ibn  al-'Tayyib  al-Qadirl, 

432 
Muhamm.ad  ibn  Umail,  314 
Muhammad    ibn    'Umar    al-Tdnisl, 

427 
Muhammad  ibn  U(hmS,n,  431 
Muhammad  al-lskandarfi,nl,  421 
Muliammad  Karama  al-'AU  al-Dih- 

la'wi,  433 
Muhammad  Khrin  Shaibanl,  372 
Muhammad  al-Khayyanil,  440 
Muhammad  al-Mubarak   al-Jaza'iri, 

422 
Muhammad  Pacha  Eaghib,  332 
Muhammad  Qablh,  430 
Muhammad  al-Rida,  85 
Muhammad  Rifat,  429 
Muhammad  al-SanAsl,  430 
Muhammad  al-Shaibanl,  236  sqq. 
Muhammad  Sharbatli,  440 
Muhammad    Siddlq     Hasan    Khan, 

432.434 
Muhammad  Sftd,  396 
Muhammad  al-Tijanl,  430 
Muhammad 'Uthman  Jalal,  423 
Muhammad  al-Yamanl  al-Shauqanl, 

433 
Muhammad  Zafir,  434 
al-Muhaqqiq,  254 
al-Muhasibl,  270 
Muhib'b  al-din  Ibn  Shihna,  358 
al-Muhibbl,  384,  385 


470 


INDEX 


Miihibbt  al-Tabarl,  319 

al-Muhtadl,  236 

Muhyt   al-dln    Ab^'l-Fadl    al-Sa'dl, 

1,93 
Mu'In    al-dln    Ahmad   ibu  'Abd    al- 

Razzaq  al-TantaranJ,  98 
al-Mu'izz,    F^timid   Caliph,    95,    96, 

187,  242,  361 
al-Muizz  ibn  Badis,  124,  172 
Mujlr  al-dln,  373 
Mujlr   al-dln    of   Ascalon.       See   al- 

Qadt  al-Fadil. 
Mukliammasdt,  103 
Mukhariq,  the  singer,  75 
al-Mukhtar  al-Musabbilil,  201 
Mukhtar  Pacha,  428 
al-Muktafl,  163,  182,  214 
Muley  Abd'l-' Abbas  al-Mansftr,  390 
Muley  Ahmad,  uncle  of  Muley  Hasan, 

436 
Muley  Ismail,  391 
Muley  Muhammad,  390 
Muley  Zldan,  395 
Muller(A.),  196,  197,  306 
Miiller  (D.  H.),  301 
al-Mundhir  III.  and  IV.,  Kings  of 

Hira,  12 
Mundhir,  son  of  Ma'ul-sama,  23,  29, 

31 
al-Mnndhirl,  231,  238 
Mu'nis,  the  eunuch,  84 
Mimk  (S.l,  313 
al-Muqaddasl,  301 
al-Muqtadl,  244 
al-Muqtadir,   84,  147,  148,  1S2,  293, 

300 
Muqtadir,  Prince  of  Saragossa,  262 
Murad  III.,  377 
Murjites,  263 
Murray  (W.),  338 
al-Murtada  (the  Sharif),  253 
Murtada  al-Zabldl  (Sayyid),  389 
al-Murtadl,   title  of  Ibn   al-Mu'tazz, 

84 
Mfi^a  (the  Imam),  85 
Mflsa,  name  of    the  Caliph  al-Hadt, 

78 
Mtlsa  ibn  Abl   Bakr,  the  Ayydbite, 

208 
M<lsa  ibn  Da'fld,  66 
Mft^a  ibn  Shakir,  the  three  sons  of, 

292 


Mflsa  ibn'TJqba  ibn  Abl'l-  Ayyash,  175 
Mus'ab,    brother    of    'Abdallah    ibn 

Zubair,  47 
al-Musabbihl,  201 
Musailima,  false  prophet,  40 
Mushidd,  inspector,  121 
Muslim  ibn  al-Walid,  55,  72,  79,  87 
Muslim  (Abd'l-Ghana'im),  112 
Muslim,  the  lawyer,  218,  219 
Alusnad,    217,    221,    223,    235,    240, 

318  ^ 
Mustafa  I.,  Ottoman  Sultan,  383 
Mustafa  of  Tashkopri,  375 
Mustafa 'Alawl-bey,  427 
Mustafa  Efendi  al-Babl,  331 
Mustafa  Bfendi  Shauql,  427 
Mustafa  Hasan  Kass^b,  429 
al-Musta'in,  'Ahbasid  Caliph,  81,  iSo 
al-Mustakfl,     Omeyyad     Caliph     in 

Spain,  126 
al-Mustamsik,    'Abbasid    Caliph    at 

Cairo,  368 
al-Mustanjid  (the  Caliph),  163,  190 
al-Mustaiisir-billah,  Hafsid  Sovereign 

of  Tunis,  125,  202,  205 
Mustansir   al-Hakam    (the    Caliph), 

l6t     ■ 
Mustaqlm-Zade,  253 
al-Mustasim,  'Abbasid  Caliph,  207, 

306 
Mustazhir  (the  Caliph),  247 
Mustazhirl,  247 
Mu'tadid,  82,  84,  127,  147,  283,  292, 

299/315 
Mutahhar  ibn  Tahir  al-Maqdisl,  284, 

291,  301 
Mutalammis,  uncle  of  Tarafa,  14 
Mu'tamid  (the  Caliph),  82 
al-Mu'tamid,  Caliph  of    Spain,     125 

sqq. 
Mutammim  ibn  Nuwaira,  44 
Mutanabbl,  83,  90  sqq.,  96,  156,  165, 

172,  260,  328,  414 
al-Mutarriz,  153 
al-Mutarrizl,  169 
Mu'tasim  (the  Caliph),  78,  79,  88,  140, 

240,  281,  282,  306,  307 
al-Mutawakkil  (the  Caliph),  8l  sqq., 

152,  180,  213,  240,  263,   281,  2S3, 

285,  307 
al-Mutawakkil,   Sultan    of  Tilimsan, 

371 


INDEX 


471 


Mu'tazilites,  62,  68,  80,  99,  168,  169, 

263,  264 
al-Mutazz,  84,  152,  180 
Mutf  ibn  Ayas,  65 
al-Muwaffac|,  son  ot  Mutawakkil,  l8o 
Muwaffaq  al-dln  al-Maqdisl,  250 
Muwashskah,  103,  129 
al-Muwatla',  236 
Muzaffar  al-diii  ibn  al-Aftas,  King  of 

Badajoz,  232 
Muzaflfar  al-din  Klikburi,  102 
Muzaffar    al-din    Sad     ibn     Zang}, 

atabek  of  Fars,  III 
Muzaffariyya  (inadrasa),  197 
JVJuzaina,  tribe  of,  15,  43 
al-MuzanI,  23S 

Nabatkans,  314 

Nabiglia  of  tlie  Beni  Shaiban,  54 

Nabigha  Dhubyaul,    10,    12,   15,  23, 

26,  30 
Nabigha  al-Ja'dt,  54 
Nadir,  Jewish  tribe,  29 
Nadr  ibn  Harith,  32 
Nadr  ibn  Shnmail,  14O 
al-Nahlias  (AbA  Ja'far),  160 
al-Nahrawall,  377 
Najdlyydt,  108 
Najuj  al-din  Abfl  'l-Ma'alt  ibn  Isra'!!, 

119 
Najm  al-din  Ahmad  al-HarranI,  342 
Najm  al-dln  Ayyftb,  father  of  Saladin, 

190 
Najm      al-dln     Ja'far     al-Hilll      al- 

Muhaqqiq,  254 
Najm  al-dSn  Kubra,  276 
Najm  al-dln  al-Nasafl,  268 
Najran,  Bishop  of,  26 
Nakoula  al-Turk,  413 
Nallino,  296,  297 
al-Nami,  93 
Nannestad  Boyeen,  148 
Naqqash  (Nicolas),  420 
Naqshbandls,  329 
al-Nasafl  (Najm  al-dln),  268 
al-NasafJ  (Biirhin  al-dln),  290 
al-Nasafl  (AbA'l-Barakat),  337 
al-Nasa'l,  220 
al-Nasawl,  193 
al-Nashl  al-Akbar,  151; 
Nashwan  ibn  Said  al-Himyarl,  171 
Naslf  al-Yazijl,  414 


Nasih  al-dln  al-Arraja,nl,  no 

Nasir  li-dlnillah    (the    Caliph),    lOI, 

104,  112 
Nfcir  al-dln,  Prince  of  Mosul,  169 
Nisir  al-dln  Tflsl,  254,  321 
Nasr  ( Jalal  al-daula).  Prince  of  Aleppo, 

120 
Nasr    al-dln    Mukram    ibn    al-'AU, 

no 
Nasr  ibn  Sayyar,  57 
Nassau  Lees,  368 
Nat&\j  al-Fltna,  108 
al-Nawajl,  398 

Navvar,  cousin  of  JTerazdaq,  51 
al-Nawawl,  249 
Nehawend,  battle  of,  53 
Nessus,  legend  of  the  robe  of,  12 
NlqAla'fls  al-Sa'igh,  389 
NIshapflrl,  256 
Nix  (L.),  293 
Nizam  al-dln  Hasan  ibn  Muhammad 

of  Nlshapftr,'i6o 
Nizam   al-Mnlk,  98,    106,  107,    no, 

244,  245,  265  _ 
Nizamiyya    (University),     109,     in, 

162  sqq.,   189,    191,  244,  247,  251, 

265,  267 
Nizamiyya  (College)  at  Ispahan,  no 
Noel  des  Vergers,  338,  353 
Nointel  (Marquis  de),  402 
Noldeke  (Th.),  71 
Normans,  the,  125 
Noskowyj  (Paul),  361 
Nudhar,   daughter   of  AbH   Hayyan, 

341 
Ndh,  son  of  Mansflr,  Samanid  Prince, 

286 
Nflh  II.,  SimSnid  Prince,  316 
Numairl,  55,  126 
Numan,  son  of  al-Mundhir,  King  of 

HIra,  31 
Nu'man  AbH  QabAs,  King  of  Hlra,  12 
NUr  al-dln  (the  atabek),  190,  192, 194 
N<ir  al-dln,  378 

Ndr  al-dln  Muhammad  al-Is'irdi,  118 
Ntlriyya  (school),  199  ;  (hospital),  360; 

362 
Nusair  al-Hammaml,  325 
Nusairis,  123,  335,  418 
Nflshtakin,  father  of  Ibn  al-Ta'awldhl, 

100 
al-Nuwairl,  339 


472 


INDEX 


Oestrup  (J.),  187 

Old  Testament,  25,  282 

Omeyyads,  46  sqq.,  57,  60,  61,  64,  65, 

66,  97,  108,  109, 184,  234 
Oppas,  Gothic  King,  188 
'Osman,  son  of  Ertoglirul,  376 
Ostrorog  (Count),  244 
Otter,  339 

Palmer  (E.  H.),  115 

Patomi  (F.),  431 

Payne  (John),  402 

Perowne,  3S7 

Perron  (Dr.),  341.  344,  370,  380,409, 

427 
Pertsch,  276 
Petermaiin,  377 
Pe'".is  de  la  Croix,  402 
Phoenicians,  the,  139 
Pinto  (L.),  136,  171 
Platen  (O.  von),  377 
Plato,  243,  282,  284 
Plato  Tiburtius,  296 
Pococke,  97,  187,  210,  266,  288,  327 
Podestii  (J.  B.),  378 
Porphyry,  281,  290 
Prasauma  Kumar  Sen,  243 
Prideaux,  171 
Ptolemy,  160,  203,  28lj  292,  297,  311, 

322 
Purchas,  209 

Qabado  (Mahrnftd),  430 

al-Qadl     al-A'azz,      113.       See     Ibn 

Qaliiqis. 
al-QadI  al-Fadil  Mujir  al-dln,  minister 

to  Saladin,  1 1 4,  1 91 
Qadt  Khan  Mahir)tld  of  Delhi,  377 
al-Qadl  al-Sa'ld,'  title  of  Ihn  Sana  al- 

Muik,  114 
al-Qadir  (the  Caliph),  312 
Qadiris,   Qadiriyya  (religious  order), 

273.  329 
Qidisiyya,  battle  of,  44 
Q.ihir'jthe  Caliph),  293 
Qahtan,  4 
Qalitanid,    the,    who    announces    the 

Last  Judgment,  55 
al-Qa'im  (tlie  Caliph),  227 
Qaiiuiz,  Prince  of  Mosul,  229 
Qais,  descent  from,  21 
Qais,  chief  of  the  tribe  of 'Abs,  13 


Qais,  son  of  al-Khat!m,  27 
Qais,  father  of  al-A'slia,  26 
Qais   ibn   Dharth,  foster-brother   of 

Husain,  47 
Qais  ibn  Mulawwah  (Majn^n),  47 
Qait-bai,  Mameluke  Sultan,  332,  371 
Qalanisiyya,  360 

al-Qalbaqji  (Muhammad  Efendi),  42t 
al-Qali,  161,  188 
al-Qalqashandl,  201,  358 
Qamar  al-Zaman,  401 
QdmtU,  388 
Qansflh  al-Ghflrl,  375 
al-Qaramini,  379 
Qaraqlish,  the  vizier,  202 
al-Qartajini,  125 

al-Qasim  ibn  Pirroh  al-Sh4tibi,  259 
al-Qasim  ibn  IbrahJm  al-HasanI,  24I 
al-Qisim  ibn  Sallam,  144 
Qasim   ibn  'Ubaidallah   (the    vizier), 

282 
al-Qastallan!,  373 
al-Qattan,  239 
al-Qazwint  (Jamal  al-din    Abft  'Ab- 

dallah),  318 
al-Qazwini  (Zakariyya),  301,  306 
Qilawiin,  Sultan,  347 
al-Q6nawi,  278 
Quatremfere  (Etienne),  327,  353,  361, 

412 
al-Qudal,  205 
Qudama,  300 
al-QudCirtj  236 
Querry  (A.),  254 
al-Qummi  (Abd  Ja'far),  242 
Quraish,  tribe  of,  Quraishites,  25,  40, 

46,  So,  108 
Quraiza,  Jewish  tribe,  29 
al-Qushairi,  178,  271,  272 
Qusta  ibn  L<iqa,  281,  322 
Qutaiba  ibn  Muslim  (the  general),  54 
al-Qutami,  55 

Qutb  al-diii  'Abd  al-Karim,  357 
Qutba  ibn  Aus  al-Hadira,  22 
Qutrub,  140,  141 

al-Kabi',  son  of  Ab<l*l-Huqaiq,  Jew- 
ish poet,  29 
Kabl'a,  father  of  Labid,  41 
Kadi  al-din  al-AstarabadI,  399 
Radi  al-din  al-TabarsI,  254 
Rala'il  Efendi  Zind,  440 


INDEX 


473 


al-Raffa  (al-Sar!),  93 

al-Raghib  al-Isbahanl,  167,  325 

Eajhib  Pachaj  225 

al-Kahman,  one  of  the  names  of  God, 

39  ■ 
Itahmanl  (Louis),  419 
Rajab,  month  of,  24 
Rakftsiyya,  sect  of,  33 
RamadSn,  fast  of,  49 
Ilasis,  Croiiica  del  Moro,  188 
Raspail,  310 
Rat  (G.),  398 
Ravaisse  (P. ),  369 
Ravins,  316 
al-Razt  (Muhammad  ibn  Zakariyya), 

307 
al-Razi  (Fakhr  al-dln),  320 
Reinaud,  338,  340,  347,  437 
Reiske,  127,  338 
Reland,  289 
Renan  (Ernest),  137 
Reynolds  (.1.),  370 
Rhazca,  306,  307 
Ridvvan  Pacha,  329 
Rifaa,  Shaikh,  413 
Rifaiyya  (religious  order),  loi,  270, 

434 
Rijik,  361 
al-Riydshi,  145 
Roesner  (Fr.),  294 
Rohrig  (Otto),  420 
Jiomancc  of  '  Antar,  13,  403,  438 
Roorda,  166 
Rof^ario  Gregorio,  345 
Rosen,  314 
Rowlandson,  377 
al-Ru'aai,  150 
RuM)a,  son  of  al-'Ajjaj,  53 
Rilckert  (F.),  17 
Rudloff,  2^4 
Rukn  al-daula,  Buwaihid  Prince,  159, 

308 
al-Rummani,  149 
Rumsey  (A.),  243 
Rushaid  Dahdah,  390,  416 
Rustam,  father  of  Ibn  al-Saatl,  117 
Rutgers,  379 
al-Rftyanl,  246 
Rtizbih,  name  of  Ibn  al-MuqafEa',  211 

al-SnV  at-  Alawiyydf,  104 
Saba  (Sheba),  4,  6 

31 


al-SabI,  134 

Sabiaiis,  ^^,  134 

Sab'iniyya,  290 

Sabuktakin,  father  of  Mahmftd  the 

Ghaznavid,  jo:,  189 
Sabtlr,  father  of  Hauimad  al-Rawiya, 

59 
Sachau  (E.),  163,  199,  302 
Sacy  (Silvestre  de),  20,  26,  98,  135, 

171,  305,  338,  339.  360,  361.  3!^-. 

411,  412,  414 
Sad  ibn  al-IIashraj,  24 
Sad  ibn  ZangI,  atAbek  of  Fars,  ill 
Sa'd  al-daula 'All  ibn  Munqidh,  123 
al-Sadafi,  297 
Sadaqa  al-Mazyadi,  107 
Sa'dl,  Persian  poet,  III 
al-Sa'di  ('Abd  al-Rahman),  396 
al-Sddih  wal-hdghim^  107 
Sadr  al-din  al-Basrl,  123 
Sadr  al-dln  al-Q6nawi,  278 
Safadl,  122,  326,  343,  365 
al-Saft'drl,  348 

Safl  al-din  "Abdallah  ibn  Shukr,  201 
Safl  al-dln  al-Hilll,  323 
l^a/idh,  the,  of  al-Jauharl,  158 
Sahih,  the,  of  Bukharl,  217  3175,, 223, 

225  ;  ()f  Muslim,  218  sqq.j  223 
Sahl  ibn 'Abdallah  al-Tustari,  256 
Sahl  ibn  Muhammad,  145 
Sahnfln,  qadi  of  QairawAn,  237,  393 
Said  ibn'Airir,  142 
Said  ibn  al- As,  51 
Sa'id  ibn  al-Batriq,  187 
Sa'ld  ibn  Humaid,  81 
Sa'id  ibn  al-Kh1\ri,  390,  417 
Sa'id  ibn  Mas'ada  al-Akhfash,  143 
Sa'id,  son  of  Malik  Shah,  97 
Saif  ibn  Dhl  Yazan,  King  of  Yemen, 

25 
Saif  Dliu^l-Yazan,  romance  of,  408 
Sarf  al-daula.  91,  92,  93,   130,   134, 

150,  184,  185,  2S3 
Saif  al-dln  Arghtin,  341 
Saif  al-dln  Manjak,  346 
Saif  al-dln  Mushidd,  121 
Saif  aZ-Tijdn^  romance  of,  409 
St.  John  Baptist,  Christian  disciples 

of.  33.  134 
St.  John  of  Damascus,  62 
St.  Louis,  116 
St.  Nilus,  the  hermit,  7 


474 


INDEX 


Saf,  rhymed  prose,  S 

al-Sajawandl,  243 

Sakhawl,  192,  260,  374 

Sakhr,  brother  of  al-Khansa,  28 

al-Sakka,kl,  169 

Saladin,  113  sqq.,  123,  169,  189  sqq., 

230,  248,  275,  313,  326,  337,  378 
Salhani,  210 
Silih  ibu  Ishaq,  145 
Sdlih  ibn  Yahya,  354 
Sallm  Bisteris,  417 
Sallm  !F^ris,  416,  440 
Saltm  Taqla,  441 
Salisbury  (E.),  335,  418 
Salma,  wife  of 'Urwa,  21 
Salverda  de  Grave,  168 
Sam'4ni,  198,  207,  368,  387 
Samdnids,  the,  224,  300 
Samar,  evening  tales,  32 
al-Samarqandi,  264,  290 
Samaual,  11,  29,  70 
al-SamliMl,  371 
a]-Sdml,   surname  of  "All  ibn  Jahm, 

80 
Samuel,     Prince     of     Taim^        See 

Samaual. 
Sanhaja,  Berber  tribe,  392 
Santf  a,  Shaikh,  443 
Sara,  daughter  of    King   Oppae  the 

Goth,  188 
al-SarakhsI,  283 
al-Saraqostt,  258 
al-Sari  al-Raff4,  93 
Sari'    al-Ghavt^anl    (al-Qutami),     55  » 

(Muslim),  72 
Sarkis  (Ivhalll),  419,  439 
al-Sarllji,  325 

S§,sanians,  the,  2,  6,  31,  63 
Satan,  68 

Sauvaire  (H.),  359.  374 
SawHr  ibn  Aufd  ibn  al-Hayd,  54 
Sayyid,  the  Himyarite,  86,  222 
Sayyid  Efendi'Azml,  424 
Sayyid  Efendi  Muhammad,  429 
Sayyid  Efendi  Tanfiq,  427 
Sayyid  Sulaimiin  ibn  Siy^m,  430 
Sohefer  (collection),  148 
Schelljerup,  296 
Schiaparelli,  125 
Sohlozer,  301 
Sohmoldera,  267,  287,  321 
Schreiner,  321 


Schultsns  (Albert),  192,  338,  339 

Schultens(H.  A.),  168 

Sebokht,  139 

Sedillot,  194,  195 

Selim  I.,  3751 

Seljilqids,  the,  98,  190,  244,  246,  259 

Septuagint,  the,  282 

Seven  Sleepers,  the,  79 

Seybold,  164,  369 

al-Shabb  al-Zarlt,  123 

Shaddad,  father  of  Autara,  13 

al-Shadhili,  278 

Shddhiliyya  {religious  order),  278,  434 

al-Shafi'i,    no,    227,   232,   237   sqq., 

247,  321,  344.  357 
Shati'ites,  237  sqq. 
Shaflq-bey  Mansflr,  427 
al-Shah,  148 

Sha.h  SafI,  Safavid  Prince,  332 
Shahln  Makdrios,  441 
al-Shahrast4ni,  268,  376 
al-Shahrazllrl  al-Ishraql,  291 
al-Shaibant  (I^hiq  ibn  Mirar),  151 
al-Shaibani  (Muhammad),  236  sqq. 
Shaikh 'Adi,  272 
Shaikh  Maqtfll,  275 
Shaikh  Rifaa,  413 
Shaikhflniyya  (madrasa),  367 
Shdir,  the,  7,  8 

Shams  al-daula,  Buwaihid  Prince,  286 
Shams  al-din,  Emir  of  Yemen,  379 
Shams  al-din  AbA  'Abdallah  Suyiiti, 

369 
Shams  al-din  al-Dimashqi,  340 
Shams  al-din  al-Khaffaf,  124 
Shams      al-din       Muhammad,      the 

preacher  of  Wasit,  329 
Shams  al-din    Muhammad   Juwaini, 

290 
Shams  al-din  al-Waiz  al-Kflfi,  104 
Shanfara,  19,  97,  23S 
Sharaf  ibn  As'ad  al-Misri,  326 
Sharaf  al-din,  Emir  of  Aleppo,  346 
Sharaf  al-din  AnosharwtLn,  190 
Sharaf  al-din   Muhammad  al-BAsiri, 

"5 

al-Sha'rani,  379 
Sharif  al-Milsawl,  120 
Sharif  al-Ridii,  85,  85 
al-Sharishi,  260 
al-Shashi,  247 
al-Shatibi,  259,  260 


INDEX 


475 


al-Shawwa,  Ii8 

Sheherazade,  400 

Shihab  al-dln  Ahmad  al-Tatilrt,  365 

ShiliElb  al-din  al-Ghazzanial-Marjilnl, 

433 
Shihab  al-dla  al-Hijazl,  423 
Shihab  al-din  ibn'al-Khayydt,  109 
Shihab  al-dSn  Mahmdd,  194 
Shihab    al-din    al-SuhraVvardl    (Ab4 

Hafs'Umar),  276 
Shi'hab  al-din  al-Suhrawardi  (Yahya 

ibn  Habash),  274 
Shihab 'al-diu  al-Talla'fari,  122 
Shihab  al-diu  Ydsuf  ibn  Ismail  al- 

Shawwa,  IlS 
Shl'ites,  40,  57,  80,  241,  252 
al-Shlrizi,  244 
al-Shuqratisi,  125 

Shu'tlbiyya,  57,  89,  141,  159,  168,  184 
Si  Ahmad  Walad  Qadi,  430 
Sibawaih,  139  sqq.,  144,  146,  150,  156 
Sibt  ibn  al-Jauzl,  207 
SlbAya,  1 39 
Siddhdnfa,  292 
Sidi  Khalil,  343,  392,  393 
Siddlq    Hasan   Khan    (Muhammad), 
"  432,  434 
Siffin,  battle  of,  45 
al-Silafi,  229 

Sim'au  Ishaq  al-Qudsi,  422 
Sinan,  son  of  Thabit  ibn  Qurra,  293 
Sindn  Paoha,  378 
Sindbad  the  Sailor,  401 
Siqt  al-Zand,  99 
Sir  ibn  Abi  Bakr,  127 
Siraj  al-din 'Umar  ibn  Mas'ftd,  325 
Siraj  al-din  al-Ushi,  269 
Siraj  al-dln  al-Warraq,  122 
al-Sirafi,  149,  1 57 
SlanB(Mao-Gucl<inde),  130,  186,  198, 

303.  338,  339.  .353.  391 
Snouck  Hurgronje,  336 
Soerensen,  343 
Solomon,  6 

Sontheimer  (J.  von),  316 
Sozomen,  7 
Spiridion  Sarrflf,  422 
Spitta  (W.'),  297 

Sprenger,  34,  186,  253,  301,  357,  370 
Steinschneider,  251 
Stephen  of  Antioch,  309 
Safls,  270 


al-Suhaill  al-Khath'aml,  261 
al-Suhrawardi  (Diya  al-dln),  274,  276 
al-Suhrawardi    (Shihab    al-diu    Abft 

Hafs'Umar),  276 
al-Suhrawardi  (Shihab  al-dln  Yaliya), 

called  Shaikh  Maqtftl,  274 
Suhuf,  scrolls  of  Abraham,  34 
Sukkari,  17,  18,  146 
Saia  (Sulaiman),  420 
Sulaiman  I.  (the  Sultan),  376  sqq. 
Sulaiman  Efendi  of  Adaua,  418 
Sulaiman  al-Hara'iri,  204,  433,  438 
Sulaiman  ibn  Ihlaf  al-MazatS, 'Ibad- 

ite  Shaikh,  202 
Sulaiman  al-Nahwl,  Shaikh,  389 
Sulaiman  Pacha,  378 
Sulaimaniyya  (TJaiversity)  at  Mecca, 

378 
al-Sulami,  269 
Sulma,  sister  of  Zuhair,  15 
al-S{lll,  182 

Sai'-Takin,  ancestor  of  al-SAll,  182 
Sumairami(the  vizier),  97 
aZ-Suraiit,    another     name     for    the 

MuaUaqdi,  10 
Sunan,  219 
Sunni'Ali,  393 
Sunnites,  86 

Suraij  ibn  Muhriz,  musician,  48 
Siiras  of  the  Koran,  34,  35,  37 
Surr  Ba'r,  105 
Surr  Durr,  loj 
Suyiiti,  162,  199,  202,  240,  266,  318, 

342,  349,  366  sqq.,   374,  377,  393, 

394 

Ta'abbata  Sharean,  18,  19 

al-TabaranI,  225,  359 

Tabari,  179, 181,207,241,255,256,338 

al-Tabarsi,  254 

al-Tabrizl,  89,  192 

Tadfts,  the  druggist,   father  of  Aba 

Tammam,  88 
Taghlib,  tribe  of,  48,  54 
al-Tahav/i  (Abd  Ja'far),  236 
Tahir,  governor  of  Khurasan,  80 
Tahir,  father  of  Muhamma,d  al-Kida, 

■  85 

Tahir  ibn  Muhammad,  131 
Tahirids,  139 
Tai,  tribe  of,  83,  97 
TaifUr,  178 


476 


INDEX 


Tdj  al-'Ards,  389 

Taj  al-daula,  Buwaihid  Prince,  286 

Taj  al-din'Abdal-Wahhab,  364 

Tfij  al-din  MuhaHimad,  III 

Taj  al-din  of  Sarkhad,  123 

Taj  al-Mulk  ibn  Ddrest,  106 

Tahhmls,  115 

al-Talla'fari,  122 

Tamerlane,  l85,  352,  356,  363,  364, 

378,  388,  408 
Tamim,  race  of,  16  ;  tribe  of,  25,  44, 

50,52 
Tamlin,  son  of  al-Mu'izz,  95 
TannAs  ibn  YHsuf  al-Shidyaq,  419 
al-Tantarani,  98 
Tanftkii,  tribe  of,  30,  98 
al-Tantlkhi,  215 
Taqt  al-din 'All  al-Subkt,  388 
TaqI  al-din  al-Fasi,  359 
Taqlfl  (Salim),  441 
Tarafa,  10,  14,  152 
Tarjt,  (Echo  Ode),  98 
Tarrago,  318 
Ta,3hifln  ibn  'Ali,  Prince  of  Granada, 

203 
TtLshkopri-zade,  376 
Tatar,  slave  of  Ibn  Miinir,  120 
Tauba  ibn  al-PIumayyir,  53 
Tewfik  Pacha,  424 
Thaalibi,  92,  93,  106,  132,  165,  191, 

417 
Thabit  ibn  Jabiral-Fahmi,  sumamed 

Ta'abbata  Sharran,  18,  19 
Thabit  ibn  Nasr,  144 
Thabit  ibn  Qurra,  292,  293,  297,  322 
Thaddeus.     See  TadAs. 
Tha'Iab,  152,  153,  156 
Tha'labI,  260 

Thamdd,  tribe  of  Thamftdites,  3,  37 
Thaqif,  tribe  of,  18,  44 
Theodosius  (the  bishop),  282 
Theodosius,  295,  322 
Tholuok,  357 
Thorbecke,  17,  412 
Thousand  and  One  Nights,  the,  399 
al-Tifashl,  316 
al-Tih^ml,  96 
al-TilimsanI,  123 
Tilmldh  al-KindS,  283 
Tirimmah,  58,  59 
al-Tirmidhi,  220,  261 
Titus,  28 


Tizan&ba,d,  vines  of,  73 

iVrd  (Pentateuch),  36 

Tornberg,  207,  334,  342 

Tnssoun  Pacha,  425 

Triebs  (F.),  269 

Triimpp,  387 

T.ich  (Fr.),  385 

Ty,ghyd  (official  stamp),  97 

Tughra  i,  97 

Tughtakin  (atabek),  1 19 

TftKlnids,  94,  1S7 

Tnmadir  (al-Khansi),  28 

Tfitnan-Bai,  367 

Turkan  KhatAn,  wife  of  Malik  Shah, 

lo5 
al-Turtftshi  ibn  Abi  Randaqa,  287 
al-tutill,  126 
al-Tfizari,  125 
Tycho  Brahe,  297 
Tychseii,  361 

'Ubaid,  the  camel-herd,  52 

'  Ubaidallali,  father  of  Ibn  al-Ta'awIdhi 

100 
'Ubaidallah  of  .Ttizajan,  286 
'Ubaidallah  ibn  MuzaiTar,  128 
Ubayy  ibn  Ka'b,  disciple  of  Mahomet, 

40 
'XJkaz,  fair  of,  27 
al-'XJkbarl,  164,  304 
Uljaitfi,  Mongol  Sultan,  337 
"Umair  ibn  Shuyaim  al-Qutami,  54 
TJinama,   daughter  of  Dhli'l-Asba'al- 

'Adwani,  22 
"Unjar  (the  Caliph),   15,  40,  44  sgq., 

137.  326,  377 
'Umar  II.,  47,  52,  6r,  401 
'Ulnar  Efendi  al-' Attar,  421 
'Umar  ibn  Abi  Rabl'a,  46 
Umar  ibn  Aftas,  governor  of  Evora, 

127  . 
'Umar  ibn  al-'AlS,  governor  of  Tabari- 

stan,  75 
"Umar  ibn  al-Farid,  114,  330 
'Umar  ibn  al-HusainI,  103 
'Umar  al-Kliayy^m,  294 
'Umar  al-Numin,  401 
'Umar  ibn  Shabba,  177 
'Umara  of  Yemen,  200 
al-'Umart  (Ibn  Fadlallah),  326 
Umayya  ibn  Abi'1-Salt,  25,  30,  34 
'Uqail,  tribe  of,  69 


INDEX 


477 


Uqba  ibn  Ja'far  al-Khuza'l,  87 
al-tJrraawl,  290 
Urwa,  son  of  Zubair,  56 
'Urwa  ibn  al-Ward,  20 
Usaid,  son  of  Dhft'1-Asba'  al-'Adwant, 

22 
Usaid,  son  of  Jabir,  20 
Usfl.ma  iba  Munqidh,  103,  194 
al-CTshS,  269 

XTshkunwEln,  fortress  of,  III 
'Utarid  ibn  Muhammad,  315 
'Utba,  slave  of  al-Mahdl,  74 
al-'Utbl,  131,  189,  316 
'Uthm^n  (the  Caliph),  34,  40,  41,  45, 

46,  69,  70,  146,  254 
"Uthmin  ibn  Said  al-Da,nl,  258 
'Uthmdn  Khalisa,  329 
Uyiinids,  family  of,  112 

Valeton,  166 

Vattier  (P.),  209,  312,  362 

Veth,  199,  368 

Victim  of  the  fair,  name  given  to  al- 

Qutamt  and  Muslim,  72 
Vloten  (G.  van),  214,  316 
Volck,  171 
Vollers,  202,  358 
Vos  (G.),  361 

Wafaydtal-Aydn,  197 

al-Wafrani,  391 

Wahb  ibn  Munabbih,  6 1 

Wahbl  Efendi  (Tadurus),  429 

Wahhabts,  the,  425,  431 

al-Wahidl,  260 

Wahl,'305 

Waij4n  ibn  Rustam  al-KAhl,  296 

al-Wa'i?  al-EAfl,  104 

al-\va'i?  al-"Witrl,  104 

Wajdiyydt,  1 08 

Waliba,  master  of  Abft  Nuw4s,  71 

Walid  ibn'Ubaid  al-Buhturl,  83 

VValld     II.     ibn    Yazid,      Omeyyad 

Caliph,  31,  48,  54,  56,  58,  65,  71 
Wallaiia,  daughter  of  the  Caliph  al- 

Mustakfl,  126 
Wallin,  171 
Wanand,  grandfather  of  al-Dluawarl, 

154 
al-Waqidi,  175 
Warda,    daughter    of    Nakoula    al- 

Turk,  413 


al-Washsha,  155 
Wasif,  slave  of  Dik  al-Jiun,  90 
Wasil  ibn  'Ata,,  62,  68,  263 
al-Wathiq    (the    Caliph),    146,    213, 

240,  307 
al-Watwat  (Jamai  al-din),  397 
al-Wa'wa',  99 
al-Wazlr  al-Maghribl,  226 
Weijers,  127 
Weil  (G.),  168,  175 
Wellhausen,  18 
Wetzer,  360 
Wetzstein,  168 
White  (J.),  305 
William  II.,  Norman  King  of  Sicily, 

"3 
Woepcke,  293,  294 
Wright  (W.),  304,  382 
Wiistenfeld,  148,  154,  175,    177,  198, 

20 1,  249,  303,  306,  342,   359,  360, 

361,  372,  378, 

Xekophon,  243 

YAHTi,  singer  of  Mecca,  58 
Yahya  Efendi,  Shaikh  al-IsUm,  331 
Yahya  ibn  Adam  ibn  Sulaim^n,  241 
Yahyfl,  ibn  Aftas,  127 
YahyS,  ibn  Kh^lid,  the  Barmakide, 

176 
Yahya  ibn  M4sawaih,  281,  307 
Yahya    ibn    ZakariyyS,,  Shaikh    al- 

Islam,  384 
YahyS,  al-MasmfidI,  237 
Yahya  al-Sarsari,  104 
Yamiu  al-daula  (Mahm<id  the  Ghaz- 

navid),  189 
Ya'qflb  al-Hadrami,  255 
Ya'qfib  ibn  Akhi  Hizam,  315 
Ya'qtib  ibn  Da'Ad,'  68 
Ya'qftb  ibn  Ish4q  al-Kindl,  283 
Ya'q-ab     ibn   '  Manstir,     Sultan     of 

Morocco,  261 
Ya'qflb  Jirjis  'Awwad,  422 
YaqAb  al-MansAr,  Almohad  Prince, 

2S9 
Ya'qftb  Sarrtif,  441 
al-Ya'qUb!,  298 
YaqAt,    the    geographer,     112,    1 78, 

300,  301,  304 
Yaqdt  al-Musta'simI,  21 1 
Yarbtf ,  tribe  of,  44 


478 


INDEX 


Yathrib,    ancient   name  of   Medina, 

27-  33 
Yaiimat  al-dahr,  92,  106 
Yazld,  son  of  Mu'iwiya,  49,  60 
Yazld  II.,  62 

Yazid  ibn  Mazyad  (the  general),  73 
al-Yazidi,  family  of,  147 
Yazldis,  the,  272 
Yemenites,  the,  58 
Yezdegird  III.,  212 
YAhann.l  ibn  Batiiq,  281 
Ytinns  (Jonas),  Persian  singer,  48 
Yftnus  ibn  Hablb,  138 
Yasuf,  Almohad  Prince,  288 
Yljlsuf  al-A'lam  of  Santa  Maria,  17 
YAsuf  al-Aslr,  419,  421 
Yllsuf  Butrus  Karam,  433 
YAsuf  Efendi  Asaf,  440 
Yftsuf  ibn  H4nln  al-Ramadi,  126 
Yljlsuf  ibn  al-Hasan  of  Sinjar,  197 
Yfisuf  ibn   Tashifin,    125,    126,    127, 

265 

Zab,  battle  of  the  great,  63 

Zabban  ibn  Sayy4r,  22 

al-Zafir  (Fatimid  Cab'ph),  191,  229 

Z3.Hr  (Muhammad),  434 

Zafir  al-Haddad,  121 

al-Zahl  'All  ibu  Ishaq,  94 

al-Za,hir  (Fatimid  Caliph),  206 

al-Z4hirl,  369 

Zahirites,  240,  250,  277 

Zaid  ibn  Thabit,  36,  40 

Zaidites,  sect  of  the,  241,  252,  378 


Zaiu  al-'Abidin,  51 

Zain  at- A  sndim,  402 

Zain  al-din  Katakit,  122 

Zain  al-dln  Tahir,  son  of  Ibn  Hablb, 

,    347  ■ 

Zainab,  sister  of  al-Hajjaj,  55 

Zairids,  124 

Zajal,  128 

al-Zajjaj,  147,  160,  256 

Zamakhsharl,  167  s?^.,  262 

Zand  ibn  al-Jauu  (AbA  I)ul4ma),  66 

Zanj,  145,  148 

al-Zarntijl,  289 

Ziegler,  268 

Zinat  al-dahr^  98 

Zindlq,  66,  68 

ZiyS.d,  brother  of  Mu'^wiya,  60 

Ziyad,  governor  of 'Iraq,  51 

Ziy4d  ibn  Sulaim4n,  56 

Ziydddt,  loi 

Ziyildat  Allah  III.,  Aghlabite  Prince, 

307.  308 
Zotenberg  (H.),  166,  402,  403 
al-Zubaidl  (AbA  Bakr),  i6l 
Zubair,  family  of,  175 
al-Zubair  ibn  B.akkar,  179 
al-Zubairi,  238 
Zubairids,  56 

Ziihair  (Baha  al-dln),  115,  117 
Zuhair  ibn  Abl  Sulm^   10,   15,   16, 

26,153 
Zuhair  ibn  Janab,  8 
al-Zuhrl,  61,  236,  303 
al-Zujiiji,  157 


(1) 


THE   END 


LITERATURES   OF   THE  WORLD. 

Edited  by  EDMUND  GOSSE,  Hon.  M.A.  of  Trinity  College, 
Cambridge.     I2mo.    Cloth,  $1,50  each* 


Modern  English  Literature. 

By  Edmund  Gosse. 

"  The  bibliographical  list  is  of  extreme  value,  as  is  the  bibliographical  work  gen- 
erally. 1 1  is  just  one  of  these  books  which  every  reader  will  want  to  place  among  his 
working  books." — New  York  Times. 

'*  A  book  which  in  soundness  of  learning,  sanity  of  judgment,  and  attractiveness  of 
manner  has  not  been  equaled  by  the  work  of  any  other  author  who  has  sought  to 
analyze  the  elements  of  English  literature  in  a  concise  and  authoritative  way.*' — 
Boston  Beacon. 

"That  he  has  been  a  careful  student,  however,^  in  many  departments,  the  most 
unrelated  and  recondite,  is  evident  on  every  page,  in  the  orderly  arrangement  of  his 
multitudinous  materials,  in  the  accuracy  of  his  statements,  in  the  acuteness  of  his 
critical  observations,  and  in  the  large  originality  of  most  of  his  verdicts." — New 
York  Mail  and  Express. 

"  Thoroughly  enjoyable  from  first  to  last.  It  traces  the  growth  of  a  literature  so 
clearly  and  simply,  that  one  is  apt  to  underrate  the  magnitude  of  the  undertaking. 
Mr.  Gosse's  charming  personality  pervades  it  all,  and  his  happy  manner  illuminates 
matter  that  has  been  worked  over  and  over  until  one  might  imagine  all  its  freshness 
gone." — Chicago  Evenhig  Post. 

"Mr.  Gosse's  most  ambitious  book  and  probably  his  best.  Itbears  on  every  page 
the  traces  of  a  genuine  love  for  his  subject  and  of  a  lively  critical  intelligence.  More- 
over, it  is  extremely  readable— more  readable,  in  fact,  than  any  other  single  volume 
dealing  with  this  same  vast  subject  that  we  can  call  to  mind.  .  .  .  Really  a  remark- 
able performance." — London  Times. 

"Probably  no  living  man  is  more  competent  than  Mr.  Gosse  to  write  a  popular 
and  yet  scholarly  history  of  English  literature.  .  .  .  The  greater  part  of  his  life  has 
been  given  up  to  the  study  and  criticism  of  English  literature  of  the  past,  and  he  has 
1  learned  and  balanced  enthusiasm  for  every  writer  who  has  written  excellently  in 
English." — London  Saturday  Review. 

"The  book  is  lucid,  readable,  and  interesting,  and  a  marvel  of  condensed  infor- 
mation, without  its  seeming  to  be  so.  It  can  be  read  by  nine  outoften  intelligent 
people,  not  only  without  fatigue,  but  with  pleasure;  and  when  it  is  finished  the 
reader  will  have  a  comprehensive  and  intelligent  view  of  the  subject  which  will  not 
only  enable  him  to  talk  with  some  ease  and  confidence  upon  the  merits  of  the  prin- 
cipal creators  of  English  literature,  but  will  also  point  the  way  to  the  right  sources 
if  he  wishes  to  supplement  the  knowledge  which  he  has  derived  from  this  book." — 
Pittsburg  Times. 


APPLETON     AND     COMPANY,     NEW    YORK. 


D.  APPLETON  AND  COMPANY'S  PUBLICATIONS. 

LITERATURES    OF   THE   WORLD. 

Edited  by   EDMUND   GOSSE, 
Hon.  M.  A.  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge. 

CRENCH  LITERA  TUBE.     By  Edward  Dowden, 

-^         D.  Litt.,  LL.  D.,  D.  C.  L.,  Professor  of  English  Literature    in 

the  University  of  Dublin.      i2mo.      Cloth,  $1.50. 

"  Certainly  the  best  history  of  French  literature  in  the  English  language." — Loit~ 
.don  Aihencpuin. 

"  This  is  a  history  of  literature  as  histories  of  literature  should  be  written.  ...  A 
living  voice,  speaking  to  us  with  gravity  and  enthusiasm  about  the  wruers  of  many  ages, 
and  of  being  a  human  voice  always.  Hence  this  book  can  be  read  with  pleasure  even 
by  those  for  whom  a  history  has  in  itself  Uttle  3.X.t.T2.ct\o-n."  —  J^oiidon  Saturaay  Revieuj. 

"The  boik  is  excellently  well  done;  accurate  in  facts  and  dates,  just  in  criticism, 
well  arranged  in  method.  .  .  .  The  excellent  bibliography  with  which  it  concludes  will 
be  invaluable  to  those  who  wish  to  pursue  the  study  further  on  their  own  lines." — Lon- 
don Spectator, 

"Remarkable  for  its  fullness  of  information  and  frequent  brilliancy.  .  .  .  A  book 
which  both  the  student  of  French  literature  and  the  stranger  to  it  will,  in  different  ways, 
find  eminently  useful,  and  in  many  parts  of  it  ihoroughly  enjoyable  as  well." — Lon- 
don Literary  World. 

"  Professor  Dowden  is  both  trustworthy  and  brilliant;  be  writes  from  a  full  knowl- 
edge and  a  fuUsympathy.  Master  of  a  style  rathercorrect  than  charming  for  its  adorn- 
ments, he  can  still  enliven  his  pages  with  telling  epigram  and  pretty  phrase.  Above  all 
things,  the  book  is  not  eccentric,  not  unmethodical,  not  of  a  wayward  brilliance  ;  and 
this  is  especially  commendable  and  fortunate  in  the  case  of  an  English  critic  writing 
upon  French  literature." — London  Daily  Chronicle. 

*' A  book  readable,  graphic,  not  overloaded  with  detail,  not  bristling  with  dates.  .  .  . 
It  is  a  book  that  can  be  held  in  the  hand  and  read  aloud  with  pleasure  as  a  literary  treat 
by  an  expert  in  style,  master  of  charmin"?  words  that  come  and  go  easily,  and  ol  other 
literatures  that  serve  for  iUustrations. " — The  Critic. 

"  His  methods  afford  an  admirable  example  of  compressing  an  immense  amount  of 
information  and  criticism  in  a  sentence  or  paragraph,  and  his  survey  of  a  vast  field  is 
bi>th  comprehensive  and  interesting.  As  an  introduction  for  the  student  of  literature  the 
work  is  most  excellent,  and  for  the  casual  reader  it  will  serve  as  a  compendium  of  one 
of  the  richest  literatures  of  the  world. " — Philadelphia  Public  Ledger. 

"Thorough  without  being  diffuse.  The  author  is  in  love  with  his  subject,  has  made 
it  a  study  for  years,  and  therefore  produced  an  entertaining  volume.  Of  the  .scholar- 
ship shown  it  is  needless  to  speak.  ...  It  is  more  than  a  cyclopsedia.  It  is  a  brilliant 
talk  by  one  who  is  loaded  with  the  lively  ammunition  of  French  prose  and  verse.  He 
talks  of  the  pulpit,  the  stage,  the  Senate,  and  the  salon^  until  the  preachers,  dramatists, 
orators,  and  philosophers  seem  to  be  speaking  for  themselves." — Boston  Globe. 

"  Professor  Dowden's  book  is  more  interesting  than  we  ever  suoDOsed  a  brief  his- 
tory of  a  literature  could  be  His  characterizations  are  most  admirable  in  their  concise- 
ness and  brilliancy.     He  has  civen  in  one  volume  a  very  thorough  review  of  French 

literature." — The  Interior,  Chicago. 

"  The  book  will  be  especially  valuable  to  the  student  as  a  safe  and  intelligible  index 
to  a  course  of  reading." — The  Independe^it. 


V).   APPLETON   AND   COMPANY,   NEW  YORK. 


D.  APPLETON  AND  COMPANY'S  PUBLICATIONS. 
LITERATURES    OF  THE   WORLD. 

Edited  by  EDMUND   GOSSE, 
Hon.  M.  A.  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge. 

/I  NCI  EN  T    GREEK   LITERATURE.     By  Gil- 

'*-*     BERT  Murray,  M.  A.,  Professor  of  Greek  in  the  University  of 
Glasgow.     i2mo.     Cloth,  $1.50. 

"  A  sketch  to  which  the  much-abused  word  '  brilliant '  may  be  justly  applied.  Mr. 
Murray  has  produced  a  book  which  fairly  represents  the  best  conclusions  of  modem 
scholarship  with  regard  to  the  Greeks." — London  Times. 

"An  illuminating  history  of  Greek  literature,  in  which  learning  is  enlivened  and 
supplemented  by  literary  skill,  by  a  true  sense  of  the  '  humanities.'  The  readerfeels  that 
this  is  no  hook  of  perfunctory  erudition,  but  a  labor  of  love,  performed  by  a  scholar,  to 
whom  ancient  Greece  and  her  literature  are  exceedingly  real  and  vivid.  His  judgments 
and  suggestions  are  full  of  a  personal  fresh  sincerity;  he  can  discern  the  living  men 
beneath  their  works,  and  give  us  his  genuine  impression  of  them."  —  London  Daily 
Chronicle, 

"  A  fresh  and  stimulating  and  delightful  book,  and  should  be  put  into  the  hands  of 
all  young  scholars.  It  will  make  ihem  understand,  or  help  to  make  them  understand, 
to  a  degree  they  have  never  yet  understood,  that  the  Greek  writers  over  whom  they 
have  toiled  at  school  are  living  literature  after  all." — IVesimznster  Gazette. 

"  Brilliant  and  stimulating." — London  Atkenceum. 

"A  powerful  and  original  study." — The  Nation. 

"  Mr.  Murray's  style  is  lucid  and  spirited,  and,  besides  the  fund  of  information,  he 
imparts  to  his  subject  such  fresh  and  vivid  interest  that  students  will  find  in  these  papes 
a  new  impulse  for  more  profound  and  exhaustive  study  of  this  greatest  and  most  im- 
mortal of  all  the  world's  literatures." — Philadelphia  Public  Ledger. 

**  The  admirable  perspective  of  the  whole  work  is  what  one  most  admires.  The 
reader  unlearned  in  Greek  history  and  literature  sees  at  once  the  relation  which  a  given 
author  bore  to  his  race  and  his  age,  and  the  current  trend  of  thought,  as  well  as  what 
we  value  him  for  to-day.  .  .  .  As  an  introduction  to  the  study  of  some  considerable  per- 
tion  of  Greek  literature  in  English  translations  it  will  be  found  of  the  very  highest  \xs&- 
{mItiqss." ^Boston  Herald. 

"Professor  Murray  has  written  an  admirable  book,  clear  in  its  arrangement,  com- 
pact in  its  statements,  and  is  one,  we  think,  its  least  scholarly  reader  must  feel  an  in- 
structive and  thoroughly  trustworthy  piece  of  English  criticism." — Neiv  York  Mail 
aiid  Express. 

"  At  once  scholarly  and  interesting.  .  .  .  Professor  Murray  makes  the  reader  ac- 
quainted not  merely  with  literary  history  and  criticism,  but  with  individual  living, 
striving  Greeks.  .  .  .  He  has  felt  the  power  of  the  best  there  was  in  Greek  life  and  lit- 
erature, and  he  rouses  the  reader's  enthusiasm  by  his  own.honest  admiration." — Boston 
Transcript. 

"Professor  Murray  has  contributed  a  volume  which  shows  profound  scholarship, 
together  with  a  keen  literary  appreciation.  It  is  a  book  for  scholars  as  well  as  for  the 
general  reader.  The  author  is  saturated  with  his  subject,  and  has  a  rare  imaginative 
sympathy  with  ancient  Greece." — The  Interior,  Chicago. 

"Written  in  a  style  that  is  sometimes  spasmodic,  often  brilliant,  and  always  fresh 
and  suggestive." — New  York  Sun. 

"  Professor  Murray's  careful  study  will  be  appreciated  as  the  work  of  a  man  of 
unusual  special  learning,  combined  with  much  delicacy  of  literary  insight." — Neu 
York  Christian  A  dvocate. 


D.  APPLETON  AND  COMPANY.  NEW  YORK. 


LITERATURES  OF  THE  WORLD. 

Edited  by 

EDMUND  GOSSE,  Hon.  M.A.  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge. 

J2mo.    Qoth,  $J.50  each. 

ITALIAN    LITERATURE. 

By  RICHARD  GARNETT,  C.  B.,  LL.  D., 

Formerly  Keeper  of  Printed  Books  in  the  British  Museum. 


"  Finished  and  graceful,  at  once  delicate  and  strong,  and 
never  relapses  into  prosiness." — The  Dial. 

"Dr.  Garnett  is  lucid  in  arrangement,  agreeable  and  cor- 
rect, and  often  powerful  and  felicitous  in  style.  He  has 
done  a  real  service  to  both  English  and  Italian  literatures." 
— Literature. 

"The  manual  is  a  worthy  companion  of  its  predecessors, 
and  will  be  found  useful  by  each  one  who  desires  to  refresh 
or  enlarge  his  acquaintance  with  the  magnificent  achievements 
of  Italian  genius." — Public  Ledger,  Philadelphia. 

"A  most  interesting  book,  written  xrom  a  full  knowledge 
of  the  subject,  but  without  pedantry.  The  style  is  simple, 
graceful,  and  readable  ;  the  erudition  is  easily  discovered  by 
those  who  seek  for  it,  but  it  is  not  ostentatiously  displayed. 
Scholars  will  appreciate  it  at  its  worth  ;  the  general  reader 
will  be  gratefial  for  the  charity  of  the  text,  and  for  the  labor 
that  has  made  his  path  one  of  pleasure  only." — Saturday 
Evening  Gazette. 

D.    APPLETON     AND     COMPANY,     NEW    YORK. 


UTERATURES  OF  THE  WORLD. 

Edited  by 

EDMUND  GOSSE,  Hom  M.  A.  of  Trinity  Coflege,  Cambridge. 

)2ino.    Ooth,  $1.50  each. 

SPANISH   LITERATURE. 

By  JAMES   FITZMAURICE-KELLY, 

Member  of  the  Spanish  Academy. 


"  Mr.  Kelly  has  written  a  book  that  must  be  read  and 
pondered,  for  within  its  limits  it  has  no  rival  as  •  A  History 
of  Spanish  Literature.'  " — The  Mail  and  Express. 

"  The  work  before  us  is  one  which  no  student  can  hence- 
forth neglect,  ...  if  the  student  would  keep  his  knowl- 
edge of  Spanish  up  to  date.  .  .  .  We  close  with  a  re- 
newed expression  of  admiration  for  this  excellent  manual  ; 
the  style  is  marked  and  full  of  piquancy,  the  phrases  dwell 
in  the  memory." — The  Spectator. 

"A  handbook  that  has  long  been  needed  for  the  use  of 
the  general  reader,  and  it  admirably  supplies  the  want. 
Great  skill  is  shown  in  the  selection  of  the  important  facts ; 
the  criticisms,  though  necessarily  brief,  are  authoritative  and 
to  the  point,  and  the  history  is  gracefully  told  in  sound 
literary  style." — Saturday  Evening  Gazette. 

"For  the  first  time  a  survey  of  Spanish  literature  is  pre- 
sented to  English  readers  by  a  writer  of  ample  knowledge 
and  keen  discrimination.  Mr.  Kelly's  work  rises  far  be- 
yond the  level  of  the  text-books.  So  good  a  critic  does  not 
merely  comment  on  literature;  he  makes  it  himself." — 
New  York  Bookman. 

•D.    APPLETON     AND     COMPANY,     NEW    YORK.. 


LITERATURES  OF  THE  WORLD. 

Edited  by 

EDMUND  GOSSE,  Hon.  M.  A.  of  Trinity  Coflcge,  Cambridge, 

I2mo.     Cloth,  $1.50  each. 

A    HISTORY    OF 
BOHEMIAN    LITERATURE. 

By  FRANCIS,   COUNT    LUTZOW, 

Author  of  "  Bohemia  :   An  Historical  Sketch." 


"  This  book  deals  with  an  interesting  subject  in  an  abk 
and  impartial  manner,  and  it  is  written  in  excellent  English." 
— London  Morning  Post. 

"  Count  L'litzow's  wide  and  deep  knowledge  and  experi- 
ence in  matters  Bohemian  have  particularly  fitted  him  for  the 
preparation  of  this  work,  and  he  has  succeeded  in  producing 
a  highly  interesting  as  well  as  instructive  exposition  of  a 
subject  altogether  unknown  in  western  Europe,  and  hardly 
more  familiar  in  America." — Boston  Beacon. 

"  Students  cf  literature  will  value  this  work,  because  it 
offers  some  insight  into  the  character,  the  extent,  and  the 
quality  of  Bohemian  literature  extant,  and  the  general  public 
will  find  most  interest  in  the  discussion  of  the  life  and  death 
of  Hus  and  the  principal  events  of  his  career,  the  life  and 
work  of  Komensky,  the  sketch  of  Dobrovsky,  and  the  long 
account  of  the  enthusiastic  work  of  the  four  patriots  to  whom 
the  revival  of  Bohemian  literature  in  the  present  century  is 
due — ^Jungmann,  KoUar,  Safarik,  and  Palacky." — Boston 
Herald. 

"Count  L'dtzow's  volume  is  of  special  value  and  in- 
terest."— Philadelphia  Public  Ledger. 

D.     APPLETON      AND      COMPANY,     NEW    YORK. 


LITERATURES  OF  THE  WORLD. 

Edited  by 

EDMUND  GOSSE,  Hon.  M.  A.  of  Trinity  Coflege,  Cambridge. 

12nio.    Qoth,  $1.50  each. 

JAPANESE  LITERATURE 

By  W.  G.  ASTON,  C.  M.  G.,  M.  A., 

late  Acting  Secretary  at  the 
British  Legation  at  Tokio. 


"A  volume  of  unique  erudition,  wide  research,  clear  dis- 
crimination, and  excellent  design.  Mr.  Aston  has  wrought 
a  memorable  service  not  only  to  those  interested  in  Japan 
and  Japanese  studies,  but  to  the  world  of  letters  at  large. ' ' 

Sir  Edwin  Arnold,  in  Literature. 

"  Mr.  Aston  has  written  the  first  complete  narrative  from 
early  times  to  the  present  of  the  history,  the  rituals,  the  po- 
etry, the  drama,  and  the  personal  outpourings  of  thoughts  and 
feelings  which  constitute  the  body  of  the  literature  of  Japan." 

Baltimore  Sun. 

"  Mr.  Aston  has  unquestionably  enabled  the  European 
reader  for  the  first  time  to  enjoy  a  comprehensive  survey  of 
the  vast  and  ancient  field  of  Japanese  literature,  of  which  we 
have  had  hitherto  only  furtive  and  partial  glimpses." 

London  Times. 

"His  work  is  a  model  of  what  a  manual  of  this  character 
should  be.  While  it  constitutes  an  admirable  guide-book  to 
any  one  who  cares  to  go  deeper  into  this  special  subject,  it 
is  sufficiently  comprehensive  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the 
average  reader  or  the  general  student  of  literature. " 

Brooklyn  Daily  Eagle. 

D.    APPLETON     AND     COMPANY,     NEW    YORK. 


LITERATURES  OF  THE  WORLD. 

Edited  by  EDMUND  GOSSE, 

Hon.  M.  A.  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge. 
Each,  12mo,  cloth,  $1.50. 

Chinese  Literature. 

By  Herbert  A.  Giles,  M.  A.,  LL.  D.  (Aberd.), 
Professor  of  Chinese  in  the  University  of 
Cambridge. 

"Few  recent  Hstories  of  literature  are  more  pregnant  vfith 
new  and  interesting  material  than  this.  There  is  nothing  like  it 
in  any  library,  and  one  may  say  with  assurance  that  there  is  not 
a  dull  page  in  it." — Boston  Transcript. 

"Information  and  instruction  share  its  pages  with  enlivening 
wit  and  wisdom,  and  it  can  be  confidently  relied  upon  for  many 
hours  of  pure  delight." — Chicago  Evening  Post. 

"Any  private,  public,  or  school  library  that  fails  to  place  it 
on  its  shelves  would  be  guilty  of  almost  culpable  indifference 
to  the  most  opportune,  the  most  instructive,  the  most  fascinating 
of  Asiatic  masterpieces  that  has  ever  been  garnered  into  a  single 
volume." — Brooklyn  Daily  Eagle. 

"The  work  is  done  with  sympathy,  with  insight,  and  with 
that  openness  of  mind  which  is  so  essential  in  dealing  with  the 
life  and  thought  of  the  East.  The  quality  of  the  poetry  wU] 
surprise  those  who  have  thought  of  the  Chinese  as  dealing  in  pru- 
dential maxims  and  in  philosophy  of  the  moral  life  rather  than  in 
the  stuff  of  the  imagination." — The  Outlook. 

D.     APPLETON    AND     COMPANY,     NEW    YORK. 


APPLETONS'   CLASSICAL    DICTIONARIES. 

Appletons'  Latin  Dictionary  (Latin-Eng- 
lish and  Englisii-Latin).  New  and  Revised 
edition,  1902, 

By  J.  R.  V.  Marchant,  M.  A.,  Oxford,  and  Joseph 
F.  Charles,  B.  A.,  City  of  London  School.  i22d  Thou- 
sand.    927  pages,  i2mo.     Cloth,  $1.50. 

This  is  a  lexicon  of  classical  Latin.  Hence,  a  large  number  of 
archaic  and  post-Augustan  words  are  omitted.  In  the  edition  of  1902 
nearly  all  the  important  articles  have  been  entirely  rewritten,  chiefly  to 
introduce  a  greater  number  of  quotations  illustrating  construction  and 
usage.  The  historical  and  geographical  notices  have  been  increased  in 
number  and  lessened  in  size,  and  etymologies  have  been  added.  The 
considerable  changes  in  type  and  classification  will  make  the  work 
more  intelligible,  and  so  more  useful.  A  book  of  the  highest  practical 
utility,  exceptionally  clear  and  exact. 

A  Classical  Dictionary  of  Greek  and 
Roman  Biography,  Mythology,  and 
Geography. 

Based  on  the  larger  dictionaries  by  the  late  Sir  Wil- 
liam Smith,  D.  C.  L.,  LL.  D.  Revised  throughout  and  in 
part  rewritten  by  G.  E.  Marindin,  M."A.,  Cambridge. 
With  numerous  maps  and  illustrations.  8vo.  Half  moroc- 
co, $6.00. 

The  "Classical  Dictionary,"  of  which  this  book  is  a  revision,  was 
designed  by  the  late  Sir  William  Smith  for  schools,  and  as  a  compen- 
dious reference  book.  The  historical  articles  include  Greek  and  Latin 
writers  from  the  earliest  times  down  to  the  fall  of  the  Western  Empire, 
A.  D.  476.  The  literary  articles  cover  all  authors  whose  works  are 
extant,  and  all  others  who  influenced  literature.  In  this  revision  the 
immense  advances  in  classical  philology  have  been  utilized.  This 
applies  particularly  to  mythology  and  typography.  Many  new  plans 
and  maps  have  been  inserted.  This  book  is  an  indispensable  compan- 
ion to  the  student  in  reading  the  Greek  and  Latin  authors. 

D.     APPLETON     AND     COMPANY,    NEW    YORK. 


A   MAGNIFICENT    WORK. 


The  Living  Races  of  Mankind, 

By  H.  N.  Hutchinson,  B  A.,  F.  R.  G.  S.,  F.  G.  S.;  J.  W. 
Gregory,  D.  Sc,  F.  G.  S.  ;  and  R.  Lydekker,  F.  R. 
S.,  F.  G.  S.,  F.  Z.  S.,  etc.;  Assisted  by  Eminent  Spe- 
cialists. A  Popular  Illustrated  Account  of  the  Customs, 
Habits,  Pursuits,  Feasts,  and  Ceremonies  of  the  Races 
of  Mankind  throughout  the  World.  600  Illustrations 
from  Life.  One  volume,  royal  8vo.  $5.00  net ; 
postage.  65  cents  additional. 

The  publication  of  this  magnificent  and  unique  work  is  peculiarly 
opportune  at  this  moment,  when  the  trend  of  political  expansion  is  breaking 
down  barriers  between  races  and  creating  a  demand  for  more  intimate 
knowledge  of  the  various  branches  of  the  human  family  than  has  ever 
before  existed. 

Mr.  H.  N.  Hutchinson  is  the  {general  editor  ;  he  is  well  known  as  a 
fertile  writer  on  anthropological  subjects,  and  has  been  engaged  for  several 
years  in  collecting  the  vast  amount  of  material  (much  of  it  having  been 
obtained  with  great  difficulty  from  remote  regions)  herewith  presented. 
The  pictures  speak  for  themselves,  and  certainly  no  such  perfect  or  complete 
series  of  portaits  of  living  races  has  ever  before  been  attempted.  The 
letter-press  has  been  prepared  so  as  to  appeal  to  the  widest  public  possible. 

In  "  The  Living  Races  of  Mankind  "  attention  is  confined  to  a  popular 
account  of  the  existing  peoples  of  the  world.  The  various  authors  describe 
how  the  widely  scattered  members  of  the  great  fraternity  live  ;  what  they 
do  ;  their  habitations,  dress,  ornaments,  and  weapons  ;  their  religious  feasts, 
ceremonies,  and  superstitions  ;  their  general  characteristics,  manners,  and 
customs  in  their  daily  relations  with  one  another. 

The  superb  illustrations  are  a.  new  departure,  and  form  a  most 
important  feature.  They  are  accurate  and  beautiful  reproductions  of 
photographs  from  life  and  they  form  a  collection  not  likely  to  be  secured 
again  in  the  course  of  the  coming  century. 


D.     APPLETON    AND     COMPANY,     NEW    YORK. 


