i^UivUl.v^VttY'i;! 'i 



Jhe j3ofp Library. 



COLLECTED BY FBA.NZ EOPP, 

Professor of Comparative Philology in the 
University of Berlin. 



Purchased by, Cornell . University, 1868. 



Cornell University Library 
DS 425M951 
v.3 
Original Sanskrit texts on the origin an 




3 1924 024 580 312 



The -Bopp Libf^af^y. 



COLLECTED BY FEANZ BOP?, 

Professor of Comparative Philology in the 
"University of Berlin. 



Purchased by Cornell University, 1868, 



SANSKRIT TEXTS 



ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE PEOPLE OF INDIA. 




The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924024580312 



ORIGINAL SANSKRIT TEXTS 



ORIGIN AND HISTORY 



THE PEOPLE OE INDIA, 



THEIR RELIGION AND INSTITUTIONS. 

COLLECTED, TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH, 
AND ILLUSTRATED BY REMARKS, 



CHIEFLY 

FOE, THE USE OF STUDENTS AND OTHERS IN INDIA. 



BY 

J. MUIR, D.C.L., 

LATE OF THE BENGAL CIVIL SERVICE. 



PART THIRD. 



THE VEDAS : OPINIONS OF THEIR AUTHORS, AND OF LATER INDIAN 

"WRITERS, IN REGARD TO THEIR ORIGIN, INSPIRATION, 

AND AUTHORITY. 



WILLIAMS AND NORGATE, 

14, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON; 

AND 20, SOUTH FREDERICK STREET, EDINBURGH. 

M.DCCC.LXI. 



PREFACE. 



The principal object which. I have had in view in this 
volume, as in the two which preceded it, has been to 
assist the researches of those Hindus who may desire 
to investigate critically the most important points in 
the civil and religious history of their nation. Having 
shown in the First Part that the mythical and legendary 
accounts, given in the Puranas, etc., regarding the 
origin of the caste system which has long prevailed in 
India, are mutually contradictory and totally insufficient 
to establish the truth of the popular belief regarding the 
distinct creation of four separate tribes ; and having 
endeavoured to prove, in the Second Part, by a variety 
of arguments, drawn chiefly from comparative philo- 
logy and from the contents of the Eig-veda, that the 
Hindus are descended from a branch of the Indo-Grer- 
manic stock, which dwelt originally along with the 
other cognate races, in Central Asia, and subsequently 
migrated into Northern Hindustan, where the Brah- 
manical religion and institutions were developed and 
matured ;— I now come, in this Third Part, to consider 
more particularly the history of the Vedas, regarded as 
the sacred Scriptures of the Hindus, and the inspired 
source from which their religious and philosophical 
systems (though, to a great extent, founded also on 



"VI PREFACE. 

reasoning and speculation) profess to be mainly derived ; 
or with which, at least, they all pretend to be in har- 
mony. 

When I speak, however, of the history of the Veda, 
I am reminded that I am employing a term which will 
suggest to the philosophical reader the idea of a minute 
and systematic account of all the various opinions 
which the Indians have held in regard to their sacred 
books from the commencement, through all the succes- 
sive stages of their theological development, down to 
the present time. To do anything like this, however, 
would be a task demanding an extent of research far 
exceeding that to which I can pretend. At some future 
time, indeed, we may hope that a history of the theo- 
logical and speculative ideas of the Indians, which shall 
treat this branch also of the subject, may be written by 
some competent scholar. My own design is much more 
modest. I only attempt to show what are the opinions 
on the subject of the Veda, which have been entertained 
by certain distinct sets of writers whom I may broadly 
divide into three classes — (l)the mythological, (2) the 
scholastic, and (3) the Vedic. 

The first, or mythological class, embraces the writers 
of the different -Puranas and Itihasas, and partially those 
of the Brahmanas and Upanishads, who, like the compilers 
of the Puranas, frequently combine the mythological with 
the theosophic element. 

The second, or scholastic class, includes the authors 
of the different philosophical schools, or Darsanas, 
with their scholiasts and expositors, and the commen- 
tators on the Vedas. The whole of these writers belong 



PREFACE.. TO 



to the class of systematic or philosophical theologians ;■, 
but as their speculative principles differ, it is the object 
of each particular school to explain and establish the 
origin and authority of the Vedas on grounds conform- 
able to its own fundamental dogmas, as well as to 
expound the doctrines of the sacred books in such a 
way as to harmonise with its own special tenets. 

The third class of writers, whose opinions in regard 
to the Vedas I have attempted to exhibit, is composed 
(1) of the rishis themselves, the authors of the Vedic 
hymns, and (2) of the authors of the Upanishads, which, 
though works of a much more recent date, and for the 
most part of a different character from the hymns, are 
yet regarded by later Indian writers as forming, equally 
with the latter, a part of the Veda. As the authors of 
the hymns, the earliest of them at least, lived in an age 
of simple conceptions, and of spontaneous and childlike 
devotion, we shall find that, though some of them appear, 
in conformity with the spirit of their times, to have 
regarded their compositions as in a certain degree the 
result of divine inspiration, their primeval and elemen- 
tary ideas on this subject form a strong contrast to the 
artificial and systematic definitions of the later scho- 
lastic writers. And even the authors of the Upanishads, 
though they, in a more distinct manner, claim a super- 
human authority for their own productions, are very far 
from recognizing the rigid classification which, at a 
subsequent period, divided the Vedic writings from all 
other religious works, by a broad line of demarcation. 

It may conduce to the convenience of the reader, if I 
furnish here a brief survey of the opinions of the three 



V1 " PREFACE. 

classes of writers above described, in regard to the Vedas, 
as tbese opinions are shown in the passages which are 
collected in the present volume. And this becomes the 
more expedient, as, since the body of this work was 
composed, I have discovered some additional texts of 
considerable importance, representing the tenets of the 
Mimansaka and Naiyayika schools, either in fuller de- 
tail or under somewhat different aspects, which I have 
had to throw into an appendix, and to which it is there- 
fore the more necessary that I should here draw the 
reader's attention in connection with the other texts of 
the same schools, which are cited in the earlier part 
of the collection. 

The first chapter (p. 1-113) contains texts exhibiting 
the opinions on the origin, division, inspiration, and 
authority of the Vedas, which have been held by Indian 
authors subsequent to the collection of the Vedic Hymns, 
and consequently embraces the views of the first two of 
the classes of writers above specified, vk., (1) the my- 
thological and (2) the scholastic. In the first Section 
(pp. 3-6), I adduce texts from the Satapatha Brahmana, 
the Chhandogya Upanishad, and the Institutes of Manu, 
in which the first three Vedas are described as hav- 
ing been produced from fire, air, and the sun. In 
the second Section (pp. 6-12) are quoted two passages 
from the Yishnu and Bhagavata Puranas, which repre- 
sent the four Vedas to have issued from the mouth of 
Brahma at the creation ; a third from the Vrihad Aran- 
yaka Upanishad, which describes the Vedas, as well as 
other sastras, as being the breath of Brahma ; several 
from the Harivansa, which speak of the Vedas as pro- 



TKEFACE. ix 

duced from the Grayatri, or as created by Brahma ; 
another from the Mahabharata, which describes Saras- 
vatl as the mother of the Yedas ; with two from the Eik 
and Atharva Yedas, one of which derives the Yedas 
from the mystical victim Purusha, and the other makes 
them spring from Time. In page 227 of the Appendix 
a second passage of the Atharva-veda is cited, in which 
the Yedas are declared to have sprung from the leavings 
of the sacrifice (uchchhishta). Another text is quoted 
from Manu, which describes the Yedas, along with cer- 
tain other objects, as being the second manifestation of the 
Sattva-ffuna, or pure principle, while Brahma is one of 
its first manifestations. Two further quotations from the 
Yishnu Purana assert the eternity of the Yeda and its 
oneness with Yishnu. The third Section (pp. 12-19) 
contains various passages from Manu, in which the great 
dignity, power, authority, and efficacy of the Yeda are 
celebrated ; together with two other texts from the same 
author and the Yishnu Purana, in which a certain im- 
purity is predicated of the Sama-veda; and two more 
from the Yayu and Brahma-vaivartta Puranas, which 
derogate in some degree from the consideration of the 
Yedas, by setting up a counter claim to respect in favour 
of the Puranas. A further passage is quoted from the 
Mundaka Upanishad, in which the Yedas and their 
appendages are designated as the "inferior science," in 
contrast to the "superior science," the knowledge of 
Soul. The fourth Section (pp. 20-31) describes the 
division of the Yedas in the third or Dvapara age, by 
Yedavyasa and his four pupils, according to texts of the 
Yishnu, Yayu, and Bhagavata Puranas; and then ad~ 



PREFACE. 



duces a different account, asserting their division in the 
second or Treta age, by the King Pururavas, according 
to another passage of the same Bhagavata Purana, and a 
text of the Mahabharata (though the latter is silent 
regarding Pururavas). Section fifth (pp. 31-39) con- 
tains passages from the Yishnu and Yayu Puranas and 
the Satapatha Brahmana, regarding the schism between 
the adherents of the Yajur-veda, as represented by the 
different schools of Yaisampayana and Yajnavalkya, and 
quotes certain remarks of Prof. Weber on the same sub- 
ject, with some other texts, as adduced and illustrated by 
that scholar, on the hostility of the Atharvanas towards 
the other Yedas, and of the Chhandogas towards the 
Eig-veda. 

Section vi. (pp. 39-52) contains extracts from the works 
of Sayana and Madhava, the commentators on the Bik 
and Taittiriya Yajur Yedas, in which they both define the 
characteristics of the Yeda, and state certain arguments 
in support of its authority. Sayana (pp. 40-47), after 
noticing the objections urged against his views by persons 
of a different school, and defining the Yeda as a work 
consisting of Mantra and Brahmana, asserts that it is 
not derived from any personal, or at least not from any 
human, author (compare note 39, p. 51) ; and rests its 
authority on its own declarations, on its -self-proving 
power, on the smriti (i.e., non-vedic writings of eminent 
saints), and on common notoriety. He then encounters 
some other objections raised against the Yeda on the 
score of its containing passages which are unintelligible, 
dubious, absurd, contradictory, or superfluous. Madhava 
(pp. 47-52) defines the Yeda as the work which alone 



PREFACE. XI 

reveals the supernatural means of attaining future feli- 
city ; explains that males only, belonging to the three 
superior castes, are competent to study its contents; 
and asserts that, inasmuch as it is eternal, it is 
a primary and infallible authority. This eternity 
of the Yeda, however, he appears to interpret as not 
being absolute, but as dating from the first creation, 
when it was produced from Brahma, though, as he is 
free from defects, the Yeda, as his work, is self-proved. 

Section vii. (pp. 52-73) contains the views of Jaimini 
and Badarayana the (alleged) authors of the Mimansa 
and Brahma (or Vedanta) Sutras on the eternity of the 
Veda. Jaimini asserts that sound, or words, are eternal, 
that the connection between words and the objects they 
represent also, is not arbitrary or conventional, but 
eternal, and that consequently the Vedas convey un- 
erring information in regard to unseen objects. This 
view he defends against the objections of the Naiya- 
yikas, insisting that the names, derived from those of 
certain sages, by which particular parts of the Vedas are 
designated, do not prove those sages to have been their 
authors, but merely their students ; while none of the 
names occurring in the Veda are those of temporal beings, 
but all denote some objects which have existed eternally. 
Some of these notions are further enforced in a passage 
from the summary of the Mimansa doctrine, given in 
the Sarva-darsana-sangraha, which I have quoted in the 
Appendix (pp. 190-206). The writer first notices the 
ISaiyayika objections to the Mimansaka tenet that the 
Veda had no personal author, viz., (1) that any tradi- 
tion to this effect must have been interrupted at the 



PKEFACE. 



past dissolution of the universe ; (2) that it would be 
impossible to prove that no one had ever recollected any 
such author; (3) that the sentences of the Veda have 
the same character as all other sentences ; (4) that the 
inference, — drawn from the present mode of transmitting 
the Vedas from teacher to pupil, — that the same mode 
of transmission must have gone on from eternity, breaks 
down by being equally applicable to any other book ; 
(5) that the Yeda is in fact ascribed to a personal author 
in a passage of the book itself; (6) that sound is not 
eternal, and that when we recognize letters as the same we 
have heard before, this does not prove their identity or 
eternity, but is merely a recognition of them as belong- 
ing to the same species as other letters we have heard 
before ; (7) that though Parame'svara (God) is naturally 
incorporeal, he may have assumed a body in order to 
reveal the Veda, etc. The writer then states the 
Mimansaka answers to these arguments thus : What 
does this alleged 'production by a personal author' 
(paurusheyatva) mean ? The Veda, if supposed to be so 
produced, cannot derive its authority (a) from inference 
(or reasoning), as fallible books employ the same process. 
Nor will it suffice to say (b) that it derives its autho- 
rity from- its truth : for the Veda is defined to be a book 
which proves that which can be proved in no other way. 
And even if Paramesvara (God) were to assume a body, 
he would not, in that state of limitation, have any access 
to supernatural knowledge. Further, the fact that dif- 
ferent 'sakhas or recensions of the Vedas are called after 
the names of particular sages, proves no more than that 
these recensions were studied by those sages, and affords 



PREFACE. xm 

no ground for questioning the eternity of the Yedas, — 
an eternity which is proved by the fact of our recog- 
nizing letters when we meet with them. These letters 
are the very identical letters we had heard before, for 
there is no evidence to show either that letters of the 
same sort (Gr's, for instance) .are numerically different 
from each other, or that they are generic terms, denoting 
a species. The apparent differences which are observ- 
able in the same letter, result merely from the particular 
characteristics of the persons who utter it, and do not 
affect its identity. This is followed by further reason- 
ing in support of the same general view ; and the writer 
then arrives at the conclusion, which he seems to him- 
self to have triumphantly established, that the Yeda is 
underived and authoritative. After noticing the dif- 
ferent grounds on which authoritativeness, and non- 
authoritativeness, respectively, are rested by the prin- 
cipal Indian schools, the Naiyayika is next introduced 
as raising another difficulty, as to the self-dependent 
(or self-derived) authority which is claimed for the Yeda. 
"What, he asks, is the source of this self-dependent 
authority? He gives four conceivable definitions of 
what it may be supposed to mean, and shows to his own 
satisfaction that they are all untenable. The Mimansaka 
then interposes,' and brings forward a fifth definition. 
His conclusion appears to be that authoritativeness springs 
from the constituents or totality of knowledge. 

The question of the effect produced on the Yedas by 
the dissolutions of the world, which is raised among the 
other Naiyayika objections above quoted, without re- 
ceiving any solution in the Mimansaka reply, is noticed 



XIV PREFACE. 

in some extracts from Patanjali's Mahabhashya and its 
commentators, which have been adduced by Prof. Gold- 
stiicker in the Preface to his Manava-kalpa Sutra, and 
have been partly reprinted in my Appendix (pp. 228 ff.). 
It is admitted by Patanjali, that, though the sense of 
the Yeda is permanent, the order of their letters has not 
always remained the same, and that this difference is 
exhibited in the different recensions of the Kathakas 
and other schools. Patanjali- himself does not say what 
is the cause of this alteration in the order of the letters ; 
but his commentator, Kaiyyata, states that the order was 
disturbed during the great dissolutions, etc., and had to be 
restored (though with variations) by the eminent science 
of the rishis. Kulluka and Sankara, on the other hand 
(see pp. 5, 72, and 213, note 10), maintain that the 
Yeda was preserved {unaltered, I presume) in the memory 
of Brahma during the periods of dissolution. 

In the extract given in pp. 65-73 from his commen- 
tary on the Brahma Sutras, 1 Sankara, while he follows 
the author of those Sutras, and Jaimini, in basing the 
authority of the Yedas on the eternity of sound, finds it 
necessary to meet an objection that, as the gods men- 
tioned in the Yeda had confessedly an origin in time, 
the words which designate those gods cannot be eternal, 
but must have originated coevally with the created 
objects which they denote, since eternal words could 
not have an eternal connection with non-eternal objects. 
This difficulty he tries to overcome (by tacitly aban- 
doning the ground taken by Jaimini, that the Veda contains 

1 My attention was drawn to this passage by an unpublished treatise by the Rev. 
Prof. Banerjea, of Bishop's College, Calcutta. 



PREFACE. xv 

no references to non-eternal objects, and) by asserting that 
the eternal connection of words is not with individual 
objects, but with the species to which these objects 
belong, and that Indra and the other gods are proved by 
the Yeda to belong to species. Sahkara then goes on to 
assert, on the authority of Brahma Sutra, i. 3, 28, for- 
tified by various texts from the Vedas and the smritis, 
that the gods and the world generally are produced 
(though not in the sense of evolution out of a material 
cause) from the word of the Vedas (see p. 4, and note, 
pp. 4 and 5) in the form of sphota. This last term will 
be explained below. It should also be noticed here that 
in another place (i. 1, 3) the Brahma Sutras (see note 
39, in pp. 51, 52) declare that Brahma was the source 
of the Veda, and that, on this foundation, Sankara argues 
that Brahma must be omniscient. If, however, the 
Vedas are eternal and apparently self-existent, it is not 
easy to see how they can be at the same time the work 
of Brahma, and a proof of his omniscience. 2 

In opposition to the tenets of the Mimansakas, who 
hold the eternity (or the eternal self-existence) of the 
Veda, and to the kindred dogmas of the Vedanta, as just 
expounded,' Gotama, the author of the Nyaya aphorisms, 
denies (Section viii. pp. 73-81) the eternity of sound; 
and after vindicating the Veda from the charges of 
falsehood, self-contradiction, and tautology, deduces its 
authority from the authority of the wise, or competent, 

s It is true that S'ankara gives*an alternative interpretation of this Sutra, viz., 
that it may he understood as meaning that the Vedas, etc., are " the source, or cause, 
or proof of Him, i.e., hy enabling us rightly to understand his nature." (Tonih 
karanam pramanam asya Brahmmo yathavat svarupadhigame). But the explana- 
tion given in the text is the first given, and it is not repudiated by S'ankara. See 
Ballantyne's Aphorisms of the Vedanta, pp. 7-10. 



XVI PREFACE. 

person who was its author. It does not clearly appear 
from Gotama's aphorism who the wise person was whom 
he regards as the maker of the Veda. If he did not 
believe id a God, (see Appendix, note v. p. 216), he 
must have regarded the rishis as its authors. The later 
Naiyayika writers, however, as the author of the Tarka 
Sangraha (Appendix, p. 209) and of the Kusumanjali 
(Appendix, pp. 211-216) clearly refer the Yeda to 
Isvara (God) as its framer. Udayana, the author of 
the Kusumanjali, controverts the opinion that the ex- 
istence of the Veda from eternity can be proved by 
a continuous tradition, as such a tradition must, he 
says, have been interrupted at the dissolution of the 
world, which preceded the existing creation (see above, 
pp. xi. xiii.) He, therefore (as explained by his com- 
mentator), infers an eternal and omniscient author of the 
Veda ; asserting that the Veda is paurusheya, or derived 
from a personal author ; that many of its own texts 
imply this ; and that the appellations given to its par- 
ticular sdkhds or recensions, are derived from the names 
of those sages whose persons were assumed by Isvara, 
when he uttered them at the creation. 

Kapila, the author of the Sankhya Aphorisms (pp. 
81-86), agrees with the Nyaya aphorist in denying 
the eternity of the Veda, but, in conformity with his 
own principles, differs from Gotama in denying its 
derivation from a personal (i.e., here, a divine) author, 
because there was no person (we., as his commentator 
explains, no God) to make it. Vishnu, the chief of 
liberated beings, though omniscient, could not, he 
argues, have made the Veda, owing to his impassive- 



PREFACE. xvu 

ness, and no other person could have done so from 
want of omniscience. And even if the Veda have been 
uttered by the primeval Purusha, it cannot be called 
his work, as it was breathed forth by him unconsciously. 
(Compare the passage from the Vedantist Sankara, pp. 
104 and 105.) Kapila agrees with Jaimini in ascribing 
a self-demonstrating power to the Veda, and differs from 
the Naiyayikas in not deriving its authority from correct 
knowledge possessed by an utterer. He proceeds to 
controvert the existence of such a thing as sphota (a 
•modification of sound which is assumed by the Miman- 
sakas, and described as single, indivisible, distinct from 
individual letters, existing in the form of words, and 
constituting a whole), and to deny the eternity of 
sound. 

In the ninth Section (pp. 86-107) some short reason- 
ings in support of the supernatural origin of the Veda are 
quoted from the Nyaya-mala-vistara (a condensed ac- 
count of the Mlmansa system) and from the Vedartha- 
prakasa (the commentary on the Taittirlya Yajur-veda). 
The arguments in both passages (pp. 86-89) are to the 
same effect, and contain nothing that has not been 
already in substance anticipated in the preceding sum- 
maries of the Mlmansa doctrine. In reference to their 
argument that no author of the Veda is remembered, I 
have noticed here that the supposition which an objector 
might urge, that the rishis, the acknowledged utterers 
of the hymns, might also have been their authors, is 
guarded against by the tenet, elsewhere maintained by 
Indian writers, that the rishis were merely seers of the 
pre-existing sacred texts. Some further passages are next 



xvm PEEFACE. 

adduced (pp. 90-96) from the Nyaya-mala-vistara, from 
Kulluka's commentary on Manu, and from Sankara 
Acharyya, to show that a distinct line of demarcation is 
drawn by the scholastic writers between the Yeda, on 
the one hand, and all other classes of Indian scriptures, 
such as the smriti (including the Institutes of Manu, 
the Puranas, and Itihasas, etc.), on the other, the first 
being regarded as an independent and infallible director, 
while the others are (in theory) held to be only authori- 
tative guides, in so far as they are founded on, and 
coincide with, the Veda. The practical effect of this 
distinction is, however, much lessened by the fact that 
the ancient sages (such as Manu), the authors of the 
smritis, are looked upon as having had access to Vedic 
texts now no longer extant, as having held communion 
with the gods, and as having enjoyed a clearness of 
intuition into divine mysteries which is denied to later 
mortals. Sankara, however (as shewn in pp. 97-99), 
does not regard all the aucients as having possessed this 
infallible insight into truth, but exerts all his ingenuity 
to explain away the claims (though sanctioned by an 
Upanishad) of Kapila, who was not orthodox, according 
to his Vedantic standard, to rank as an authority. In 
his depreciation of Kapila, however, Sankara is opposed 
to the Bhagavata Purana and other standard works (pp. 
99-100). I then proceed to observe (pp. 101-103) that 
though in ancient times the authors of the different 
philosophical systems (Darmnas) no doubt asserted 
the truth of their respective opinions, in opposition 
to all the antagonistic systems, yet in modern times 
the superior orthodoxy of the Yedanta appears to be 



PREFACE. xix 

generally recognized; •while the authors of the other 
systems are regarded, e.g., by Madhusudana Sarasvati, 
as, amid all their diversities, having in view, as their 
ultimate scope, the support of the Yedantic theory. 
The same view, in substance, is taken by Yijnana 
Bhixu, the commentator on the Sankhya Sutras, who 
(Appendix, pp. 217-226) maintains that Kapila's system, 
though atheistic, is not irreconcilable with the Yedanta 
and other theistic schools, as its denial of an I'svara 
(God) is only practical, or regulative, and merely en- 
forced in order to withdraw men from the too earnest 
contemplation of an eternal and perfect Deity, which 
would impede their study of the distinction between 
matter and spirit. To teach men this discrimination as 
the great means of attaining final liberation, is one of 
the two main objects, and strong points, of the Sankhya 
philosophy, and here it is authoritative; while its 
atheism is admitted to be its weak side, and on this 
subject it has no authority. Yijnana Bhixu goes on to 
say that it is even supposable that theistic systems, in 
order to prevent sinners from attaining knowledge, may 
lay down doctrines partially opposed to the Yedas ; and 
that though in these portions they are erroneous, they 
will still possess authority in the portions conformable to 
the sruti and smriti. He then quotes a passage from the 
Padma Purana, in which the god Siva tells his consort 
Parvati that the Yaiseshika, the Nyaya, the Sankhya, 
the Purva-mimansa Darsanas, and the Yedantic theory 
of illusion, are all systems infected by the dark or tamasa 
principle, and consequently more or less unauthoritative. 
All theistic theories, however,, are, . as Yijnana Bhixu 



XX 



PREFACE. 



considers, authoritative, and free from error on their 
own special subject. And as respects the discrepancy 
between the Sankhya and the Vedanta, regarding the 
unity of Soul, he concludes that the former is not 
devoid of authority, as the apparent diversity of Souls 
is acknowledged by the Vedanta, and the discrimina- 
tive knowledge which the Sankhya teaches to the em- 
bodied soul is an instrument of liberation ; and thus the 
two varying doctrines, if regarded as the one practical 
(or regulative), and the other real (or transcendental), 
will not be contradictory. 

After thus deviating into the Appendix, I revert to 
the close of Section ninth (pp. 103-109) where it is 
shewn that the distinction drawn by the Indian com- 
mentators between the superhuman Veda and its human 
appendages, the Kalpa Sutras, etc., as well as the smritis, 
is not borne out by certain texts which I have cited 
from the Vrihad Aranyaka and Mundaka Upanishads. 
These two ancient treatises seem to place all the dif- 
ferent sorts of sdstras or scriptures (including the four 
Vedas) in one and the same class, the former speaking of 
them all promiscuously as being the breath of Brahma, 
while the latter describes them all (except the Upani- 
shads) as being parts of the " inferior science," in opposi- 
tion to the " superior science," or knowledge of Brahma. 
In the same spirit as the Mundaka, the Chhandogya 
Upanishad also, as quoted in the Appendix (pp. 186, 
187), includes the four Vedas in the same list with 
a variety of miscellaneous sdstras (which Narada has 
studied without getting beyond the confines of exoteric 
knowledge), and never intimates (unless it be by placing 



PREFACE. xxi 

them at the head of the list) that the former can claim 
any superiority over the other works with which they 
are associated. 

In Section tenth (pp. 107-113) the arguments in sup- 
port of the Yeda, adduced in the philosophical systems, 
and by the various commentators, as above summarised, 
are recapitulated, and some remarks are made on these 
reasonings. My observations are chiefly directed to 
shew that the rishis are proved by the contents of the 
hymns to have been their real authors ; and that 
numerous events which have occurred in time, are un- 
doubtedly mentioned in the Yedas. This, as we have 
seen (above, p. xiv.) is admitted by Sankara. 

The Second Chapter (pp. 114-183) exhibits the 
opinions of the rishis in regard to the origin of the 
Vedic hymns. It is intended to shew in detail that, 
though some at least of the rishis appear to have 
imagined themselves to be inspired by the gods in 
the expression of their religious emotions and ideas, 
they at the same time regarded the hymns as their 
own compositions, or the compositions of their fore- 
fathers, distinguishing between them as new and old, 
and describing their own authorship in terms which 
could only have been dictated by a consciousness 
of its reality. The first, second, and third Sections 
(pp. 116-140) contain a collection of passages from the 
Eig-veda in which a distinction is drawn (1) between 
the rishis as ancient and modern, and (2) between the 
hymns as older and more recent ; and in which (3) the 
rishis describe themselves as the makers, fabricators, or 
generators of the hymns ; with some additional texts in 



xxu PREFACE. 

which, such authorship appears to be implied, though it 
is not expressed. Section fourth (pp. 141-164) contains 
a variety of passages from the same Veda, in which 
(1) a superhuman character or supernatural faculties are 
ascribed to the earlier rishis ; (2) the idea is expressed 
that the praises and ceremonies of the rishis were sug- 
gested and directed by the gods in general, or, in par- 
ticular, by the goddess of speech, or by some other or 
others of the different deities of the Vedic pantheon. To 
illustrate, and render more intelligible and probable, the 
opinions which I hare ascribed to the old Indian rishis, 
regarding their own inspiration, I have quoted (in the 
same Section, pp. 165-171) a number of passages from 
Hesiod and Homer to shew that the early Greek 
bards entertained a similar belief. I then advert (pp. 
170-171) to the remarkable divergence between the 
later religious histories of Greece and of India. I next 
enquire briefly (in pp. 171-172) in what way we can 
reconcile the apparently conflicting ideas of the rishis 
on the subject of the hymns, considered, on the one 
hand, as their own productions, and, on the other, as 
inspired by the gods. Then follow (pp. 172-176) some 
further texts from the Eig-veda, in which a mystical, 
magical, or supernatural efficacy is ascribed to the 
hymns. These are succeeded (pp. 177-181) by a few 
quotations from the same Veda, in which the authors 
complain of their own ignorance ; and by a reference to 
the contrast between these humble* confessions, and the 
proud pretensions set up by later theologians in behalf 
of the Veda, and its capability of imparting universal 
knowledge. The ideas of the rishis regarding their own 



PREFACE. xxm 

inspiration differ widely from the conceptions of later 
theorists ; for while the former looked npon the gods, 
who were confessedly mere created beings, as the sources 
of supernal illumination, the latter either regard the 
Veda as eternal, or refer it to the eternal Brahma, or 
I'svara, as its" author. The fifth and last Section (pp. 
181-183) adduces some texts from the Sveta'svatara, 
Mundaka and Chhandogya Upanishads, which show the 
opinions of the writers regarding their own inspiration, 
or that of their predecessors. 

I have stated above that my primary design in the 
composition of this work, has been to aid the researches 
of Indian students and their European preceptors. But 
the volume, with all its imperfections, may perhaps 
also possess a certain interest for the divine and the 
philosopher, as furnishing a few documents to illustrate 
the course of theological opinion in a sphere far removed 
from the ordinary observation of the European student, — 
a course which, quite independently of the merits of the 
different tenets involved in the enquiry, will, I think, 
be found to present a remarkable parallel in various 
respects to that which is traceable in the history of 
those religious systems with which we are most familiar. 
In both cases we find that a primitive age of ardent 
emotion, of simple faith, and of unarticulated beliefs, 
was succeeded by a period of criticism and speculation, 
when the floating materials handed down by preceding 
generations were compared, classified, reconciled, de- 
veloped into their consequences, and elaborated into 
a variety of scholastic systems. 



X X1V PREFACE. 

For an account of the printed works or MSS. from 
which my Sanskrit extracts have been made, I may 
refer to the Prefaces of the First and Second Parts. 
And sources not there mentioned, are, I think, specified 
in the body of the work. 

In regard to the texts quoted from the Eig-veda, I 
have derived the same sort of assistance from the French 
version of M. Langlois, which has been acknowledged 
in the Preface to the Second Part, p. vi. I am also 
indebted for some of the Vedic texts to Boehtlingk and 
Eoth's Lexicon. 

In this volume, as the reader will perceive, the Sans- 
krit extracts are entirely printed in the Eoman charac- 
ter. I have no abstract preference for this mode of 
presenting Indian words ; but its adoption has saved me 
much labour in the way of transcription, and it has also 
the advantage of being somewhat more economical. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGES 

v, — xxiv. Preface. 

1 — 113. CHAPTER I. Opinions reqarding the Origin, Division, Inspi- 
ration, and Authority of the "Vedas, held by Indian Authors 
subsequent to the collection of the hymns. 

1 — 6. Sect. I. Elemental Origin of the Vedas according to the Brahmanas, 
Upanishads, and Institutes of Manu. 

6 — 12. Sect. II. Origin of the Vedas according to the Vishnu and Bhagavata 
Puranas, the Vjihad Aranyaka ITpanishad, the Harivans'a, the Maha- 
bharata, the Big and Atharya Vedas ; eternity of the Veda ; miscel- 
laneous statements regarding it. 
12 — 19. Sect. III. Manu's conception of the dignity and authority of the Veda, 
with some statements of a different tenor from him and other writers. 

20— 31. Sect. IV. Division of the Vedas, according to the Vishnu, Vayu, and 
Bhagavata Puranas, and the Mahahharata. 

31 — 39. Sect. V. Accounts in the Vishnu and Vayu Puranas of the schism 
between the adherents of the Yajur-veda, Vais'ampayana, and Yajna- 
valkya ; hostility of the Atharvanas towards the other Vedas ; and of 
the Chhandogas towards the Big-veda. 

39 — 52. Sect. VI. Beasonings of the Commentators on the Vedas, in support of 
the authority of the Vedas. 

52 — 73. Sect. VII. Arguments of the Mimansakas and Vedantins in support of 
the eternity and authority of the Vedas. 

73 — 86. Sect. VIII. Arguments of the followers of the Nyaya and Sankhya 
systems in support of the authority of the Vedas, but against the 
eternity of sound, and of the Vedas 

86 — 107. Sect. IX. Some further reasonings in support of the supernatural 
origin of the Veda, and distinction in point of authority between it and 
the Smritis or non-vedic S'astras, as stated by the commentators on the 
Taittirlya Yajur-veda, the Purva Mimansa, Manu, and the Vedanta ; 

c 



xxvi CONTENTS. 

TAUES 

difference of opinion between S'ankara and Madhusudana, regard- 
ing the orthodoxy of Kapila and Kanada ; the distinction in point of 
authority between the Vedas and the other S'astras, drawn by later 
writers, not borne out by the Upanishads. 

107 — 113. Sect. X. Recapitulation of the arguments urged in the Dars'anas, and 
by commentators, in support of the authority of the Vedas, with some 
remarks on their reasonings. 

114 — 183. CHAPTER II. The Rishis, and their opinions in kegaed to 
the Origin op the Vedic Hymns. 

116 — 120. Sect. I. Passages from the Hymns of the Veda which distinguish 
between the Rishis as Ancient and Modern. 

121 — 128. Sect. II. Passages from the Veda in which a distinction is drawn 
between the older and the more recent Hymns. 

128—140. Sect. III. Passages of the Rig-veda in which the Rishis describe them- 
selves -as the composers of the Hymns, or intimate nothing to the 
contrary. 

141 — 181. Sect. IV. Passages of the Rig-veda in which a snpernatural character 
is ascribed to the Rishis or the Hymns ; similar conceptions of inspi- 
ration entertained by the Greeks of the Homeric age ; limitations of 
this opinion in the case of the Vedic Rishis. 

181 — 183. Sect. V. Texts from the Upanishads, showing the opinions of the 
authors regarding their own inspiration, or that of their predecessors. 

185 — 231. Appendix. 

186—190. Note I. on Page 19, Line 22, containing texts from the Bhagavad Glta, 
the Chhandogya and Vrihad Aranyaka Upanishads, and the Bhagavata 
Purana, depreciatory of the ceremonial and polytheistic parts of the 
Veda, in comparison with the knowledge of Brahma. 

190. Note II. on Page 22, Line 14. Quotation from Mahldhara's Commen- 
tary on the Vajasaneyi Sanhita, regarding the division of the Vedas. 

190—209. Note III. on Page 65, 4th Line from the foot. Extracts (1) from the 
Sarva-dars'ana-sangraha, on the Mimansaka arguments regarding the 
eternity of the Veda ; (2) from S'ankara's Commentary on the Brahma 
Sutras ; and (3) from the Vidvan-moda-tarangini, attributing atheism 
to the Mimansa. 

209—210. Note IV. on Page 80, Line 18. Extracts from the Tarka-sangraha, 
regarding the grounds on which the authority of the Veda, and of 
the other Scriptures, respectively rests. Vatsayana's definition of the 
word apla, etc. 



CONTENTS. xxvn 

PAGES 

210—216. Note V. on Page 81, Line 13. Extracts from the Kusumanjali, contro- 
verting the eternity of the Veda, and ascribing its composition to an 
eternal and personal God. 

216—217. Note VI. on Page 89, Line 12. Quotation from the Nyaya Sutras, i. 49, 
regarding the technical term kalatyayapadishta. 

217. Note VII. on Page 90, Line 19. Indication of an additional illustrative 
text. 

217—226. Note VIII. on Page 103, Line 9. Extract from the Sankhya Prava- 
chana Bhashya (on the reconcilableness of the Sankhya doctrines with 
those of the Vedanta and Toga), embracing various quotations from 
the Padma-purana, and other works. 

226. Note IX. on Page 112, Line 22. Extract from Sayana's Introduction 
to R. V. 

226. Note X. on Page 126, Line 15. Quotation from R. V. x. 57, 3, = V. S. 

3, 59. 

227. Note XI. on Page 148, 4th Line from the foot. Reference to R. V. x. 

90, 9, and to A. V. xix. 54, 3, and xi. 7, 24. 

227- Note XII. on Page 149, 3rd Line from the foot. Reference to Professor 
Benfey's note on S. V. ii. 294. 

227. Note XIII. on Page 176, Line 12. Quotations from R. V. a. 57, 2, and 
Taittiriya Brahmana. 

228 — 231. Additional Note on Page 5, Line 15. Extracts from Patanjali's Maha- 
bhashya and its commentators, and from the Preface to Prof. Gold- 
stucker's Manava-kalpa-sutra, on the changes undergone by the Veda 
daring the dissolutions of the universe. 



CORRECTIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 



Page 32, Line 23, for " Brahmarati," read " Brahmarata.' 



age Hi, ju 


nc aa,joi 


„ 57, 


, 7, „ 


» 70, 


, 27, „ 


„ 97, 


, 27, „ 


„ 102, 


. 13, „ 


» "2, 


> 33, ,, 


„ 136, 


, 26, „ 


„ 149, 


i 35, ,, 


„ 158, 


, 34, „ 


„ 162, 


, 17, „ 


„ 197, 


, 36, „ 



" yattgayadyam," read " yaugapadyam." 

" senapciti," read " senapati." 

" employs the words," read " employs the words (xii. 91).' 

" Brahma," read " Brahma." 

" supposed," read " imagined." 

"prinait/te [?]," read "p>inait/ie." 1 

" devebliyah-devana," rend " devebhyah = devana." 

" interests," ?■«<£ " intellects," 

"A. V." r«<7<?"E. V." 

u recessits," read " regressus." 



1 This, I find, is a correct Yedic form. See "Wilson's Sanskrit Grammar, 2nd ed.. 
p. 464. 



ORIGINAL SANSKRIT TEXTS. 



PA.ET THIRD. 



CHAPTEE I. 

OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, DIVISION, INSPIRATION, AND 
AUTHORITY OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS SUB- 
SEQUENT TO THE COLLECTION OF THE HYMNS. 

In the preceding volume, I have furnished a general account 
of the ancient Indian writings, which are comprehended under 
the designation of Veda or Sruti. These works, which, as we 
have seen, constitute the earliest literature of the Hindus, are 
broadly divisible into two classes : (1) The Mantras or hymns, 
in which the praises of the gods are sung and their blessing is 
invoked ; (2) the Brahmanas, which embrace both the liturgical 
institutes in which the ceremonial application of those hymns 
is prescribed, and the Aranyakas and Upanishads, or theolo- 
gical treatises in which the spiritual aspirations which were 
gradually developed in the minds of the more devout of the 
Indian sages are preserved. It is, therefore, clear that the 
hymns constitute the original and, in sQme respects, the most 
essential portion of the Veda ; that the Brahmanas arose out of 
the hymns, and are subservient to their employment for the pur- 
poses of worship ; while the Upanishads give expression to ideas 
of a spiritual and mystical character which, though to some ex- 
tent discoverable in the hymns and in the older portion of the 
Brahmanas, are much further matured, and assume a more 
exclusive importance, in these later treatises. 

I content myself at present with referring the reader who 



* OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

desires to obtain a fuller idea of the nature of the hymns, and of 
the attributes there ascribed to the divinities to whom they are 
addressed, to the late Professor H. H. Wilson's translation of 
the earlier portion of the Big-veda, and to the dissertation which 
he has prefixed to the first volume. At a later stage of this 
work, I hope to return to the mythology of the Veda, and to 
compare the conceptions which the rishis entertained of the 
different objects of their worship, with those representations of 
the deities who bore the same names, which occur in Indian 
writings of a later date, whether mythological or theological. 

The task to which I propose in the meantime to devote my- 
self, is to supply some account of the opinions entertained by 
Hindu writers, ancient and modern, in regard to the origin and 
authority of the Vedas. With this view I intend to collect from 
the Indian writings of the later Vedic era (the Brahmanas and 
Upanishads) as well as from the books, whether popular or 
scientific, of the post-vedic period (the Puranas, the Itihasas, 
the institutes of Manu, the commentaries on the Vedas, the 
aphorisms of the Darsanas, or systems of philosophy, and their 
commentators) such passages as refer to the origin, division, 
inspiration, and authority of the Vedas, and to compare the 
opinions there set forth with the ideas entertained on some of 
these subjects by the writers of the hymns themselves, as dis- 
coverable from numerous passages in their own compositions. 

The mythical accounts which are given of the origin of the 
Vedas are mutually conflicting. In some passages they are said 
to have sprung from fire, air, and the sun. In other texts they 
are said to have been produced by the creator Brahma from his 
different mouths, or by the intervention of the Gayatrl, or to have 
sprung from the goddess Sarasvatl. I proceed to adduce these 
several passages. 



sect, i.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BT INDIAN AUTHORS. 3 

Sect. I. — Elemental origin of the Vedas according to the Brahmanas, 
Upanishads, and Institutes of Manu. 

I commence with a passage from the Satapatha Brahmana, 
xi. 5, 8, 1 S. Prajdpatir vet idam agre aslt \ Eka eva so 
'kamayata syam prajayeya iti | So 'sramyat sa tapo 'tapyata \ 
tasmach chrantat tepanat trayo loka asrijyanta | prithivy anta- 
rixam dyauh \ sa imams trln lokan abhitatapa | tebhyas tapte- 
bhyas trlni jyotlmshy ajayanta agnir yo 'yam pavate suryah \ 
sa imani trlni jyotlmshy abhitatapa \ tebhyas taptebhyas trayo 
veda ajayanta agner rigvedo vayor yajurvedah suryat sdma- 
vedah \ sa imams trln vedan abhitatapa \ tebhyas taptebhyas 
trlni sukrany ajayanta bhitr ity rigvedad bhuva iti yajurvedat 
svar iti samaveddt \ Tad rigvedenaiva hotram akurvata \ yajur- 
vedena adhvaryavam samavedena udgltham yad eva trayyai 
vidyayai sukram, tena brahmatvam uchchakrama. " Prajapati 
was formerly this universe [i.e. the sole existence]. Being 
alone, he desired, ' may I be, may I become.' He toiled, he 
performed austerity. From him, when he had so toiled, and 
performed austerity, three worlds were created,— earth, atmo- 
sphere, and sky. He brooded over [i.e. infused warmth into] 
these three worlds. From them, thus brooded over, three lights 
were produced, — fire, this which purifies (i.e. pavana, or the 
air), and the sun. He brooded over these three lights. From 
them so brooded over, the three Vedas were produced, — the 
Eig-veda from fire, the Yajur-veda from air, and the Sama-veda 
from the sun. He brooded over these three Vedas. From them 
so brooded over, three seeds [or essences] were produced, — bhur 
from the Eig-veda, bhuvah from the Yajur-veda, and svar from 
the Sama-veda. Hence, with the Eig-veda they performed the 
function of the hotri; with the Yajur-veda, the office of the 
adhvaryu ; with the Sama-veda, the duty of the udgatri ; while 
the function of the brahman arose through the essence of the 
triple science [i.e. the three Vedas combined]." 

Chhdndogya Upanishad.—A similar passage (already quoted 



* OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

in Part Second, p. 200) occurs in the Chhandogya Upanishad 
(p. 288 of Dr. Eoer's Ed.) Prajapatir lohan abhyatapat \ 
teshdrh tapyamdndndn rasan prabrihad agnim prithivyd vayum 
antarixdd ddityam divah \ sa etas tisro devatd abhyatapat \ 
tdsaw tapyamdndndrr rasan prabrihad agner richo vayor ya- 
jumshi sama adityat \ sa etarr traylih vidydm abhyatapat \ tasyas 
tapyamanaya rasan prabrihad bhur iti rigbhyo bhuvar iti yqjur- 
bhyah svar iti sdmabkyah. " Prajapati brooded over the worlds, 
and from them so brooded over, he drew forth their essences, 
viz., fire from the earth, air from the atmosphere, and the sun 
from the sky. He brooded over these three deities, and from 
them, so brooded over, he drew forth their essences, — from fire 
the Eik verses, from air the Yajush verses, and from the sun the 
Sama verses. He then brooded over thi3 triple science, and 
from it, so brooded over, he drew forth the essences, — from Eik 
verses the syllable bhur, from Yajush verses bhuvah, and from 
Sama verses svar." 1 

Manu.— The same origin is assigned to the three Vedas in 
the following verses, from the account of the creation in Manu 
i. 21 — 23, where the idea is no doubt borrowed from the Brah- 
manas : — Sarveshantu sa namani karmanicha prithak prithak \ 
Veda-sabdebhya evadau prithak samsthascha nirmame \ Kar- 
matmanancha devanafn. so 'srijat praninam prabhuh \ sadhyd- 
nancha ganam suxmam yqjnanchaiva sandtanam \ Agni-vdyu- 
ravibhyastu trayam brahma sandtanam \ dudoha yqjnasiddhyar- 
tham rig-yajuh-sdma-laxanam. " He [Brahma] in the begin- 
ning fashioned from the words of the Veda 2 the names, functions, 

1 Passages to the same effect are to be found in the Aitareya (v. 32 — 34) and Kan- 
shitati Brahmanas. The latter is translated by Weber in his Ind. Stud. ii. 303, ff. 

2 Kulluka wrongly explains this to mean, " Having understood them from the words 
of the Veda (Veda-sabdebhya evaavagamya)." It is similarly said in the Vishnu Pur. i. 
6, 68, ff. (p. 43 of Wilson's Trans.) Nama rupahcha bhutanam Jcrityanancha pravar- 
ttanam | Veda-sabdebhya evadau devadinam chakara sah \ rishmam namadheyani 
yatha-veda-smtani vai | yatha-niyoga-yogyani sanesham api so 'karot. " In the 
beginning he ordained, from the words of the Veda, the names, forms, and functions 
of the gods and other creatures. He also assigned the names and the respective 
offices of all the rishis, as handed down by the Vedas." The same idea is repeated in 



sect, i.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 5 

and conditions of all [creatures]. That Lord also created the 
subtile order of active and living deities, and of Sadhyas, and 
eternal sacrifice. And in order to the performance of sacrifice, 
he drew forth from fire, from air, and from the sun, the triple 
eternal Veda, distinguished as Eik, Yajush, and Saman." 

Kulluka Bhatta, the commentator, annotates thus on this 
passage : — Sanatanam nityam \ vedapaurusheyatva-paxo Manor 
abhimatdli | purva-kalpe ye vedas te eva Paramatma-murtter 
Brahmanali, sarvajfiasya smrity-arudhah \ tan eva kalpadav 
agni-vdyu-ravibhya achakarsha \ srautascha ayam artho na 
sankaniyah \ tathacha srutili \ ' agner ngvedo vdyor yajurveda 
adityat samaveda' iti. " The word sanatana means 'eternally 
pre-existing.' The doctrine of the superhuman origin of the 
Vedas i3 maintained by Manu. The same Vedas which 
[existed] in the previous mundane era {Kalpa) were preserved 
in the memory of the omniscient Brahma, who was one with the 
supreme spirit. It was those same Vedas that, in the beginning 
of the [present] Kalpa, he drew forth from fire, air, and the sun : 
and this dogma which is founded upon the Veda is not to be 
questioned, for the Veda says, ' The Kig-veda comes from fire, 
the Yajur-veda from air, and the Sama-veda from the sun.'" 

Another commentator on Manu, Medhatithi, explains this 
passage in a more rationalistic fashion, " by remarking that the 

the Mahabharata, S'&ntiparva, 8,533 : — Siskiryas tapasa vedan adhyaiskanla diva- 
nisam \ Anadinidharia vidya vag utsriahta svayambhuva \ Adauvedamayidwyayatah 
sarvah pyavritiayah j ItishTnam namadheyani yaschti vedeshu srishtayah \ Nanaru- 
pancha bhutanam harmananoha pravarttayan \jpravarttanam ?] ] Vedasabdebhya 
evadau nirmimtte so, uvarah, " Through devotion the rishis studied the Vedas both 
day and night. In the beginning, wisdom, without beginning or end, divine speech, 
formed of the Vedas, was sent forth by Svayambhii [the self-existent] : from her all 
activities [are derived]. It is from the words of the Veda that that Lord in the 
beginning frames the names of the rishis, the creations which are [recorded ?] in the 
Vedas, the various forms of beings, and species of works." In his introductory 
verses, Madhava, the author of the Vedartha-prakas'a, or Commentary on the 
Taittiriya Sanhita, thus addresses Mahadeva : — Yasya nisvasitam veda yo vedebhyo 
'khilamjagat \ Nirtname torn ahum vande vidyaflrtham Mahesvaram. "I reverence 
Mahes'vara, the hallowed abode of sacred knowledge, whose breath the Vedas are, 
and who from the Vedas formed the whole universe." We shall meet this idea again 
further on. 



b OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., L™ AP - *• 

Rig-veda opens with a hymn to fire, and the Yajur-veda with 
one in which air is mentioned." — Colebr. Misc. Ess. i. p. 11, note. 
To the verses from Manu (i. 21—23) just cited, the following 
from the second book may be added, partly for the purpose of 
completing the parallel with the passages previously adduced 
from the Satapatha Brahmana and the Ohhandogya Upanishad ; 
— Manu ii. 76, ff. AkarancMpy ukarancha makarancha Praja- 
patih | Vedatrayad niraduhad bhUr-bhuvah-svar itlti cha \ 
77. Tribhya eva tu vedebhyah padam padam aduduhat \ tad ity 
ricko'syak savitryah parameshthl prajapatih | ... 81. Omkara- 
pilrviMs tisro mahavyahritayo 'vyayah \ Tripada ekaiva gayatri 
vyfieya-m brahmano mukham. 76. " Prajapati also milked out 
of the three Vedas the letters a, u, and m, together with the 
words bhUr, bhuvali, and svar. 77. The same supreme Praja- 
pati also milked from each of the three Vedas one of the [three] 
lines of the text called savitrl [or gayatri\, beginning with the 
word tad? 81. The three great imperishable particles (bkur, 
bhuvah, svar) preceded by om, and the gayatri of three lines, are 
to be regarded as the mouth of the Veda [or Brahma]." 

Sect. II. — Origin of the Vedas according to the Vishnu and Bhagavata 
Puranas, the Vrihad Aranyaka Upanishad, the Harivania, the 
Mahabh&rata, the Big and Atharva Vedas ; eternity of the Veda ; 
miscellaneous statements regarding it. 

In the Vishnu and Bhagavata Puranas we find a quite dif- 
ferent tradition regarding the origin of the Vedas, which in these 
works are said to have been created by the four-faced Brahma 
from his several mouths. Thus the Vishnu Pur. says, i. 5, 
48, ff. : — Oayatrancha richaschaiva trivrit-sama-rathantaram \ 
Agnishtomancha yajnanam nirmame prathamad mukhat \ ya- 
ju?hshi traishtubham chhandali stomafh panchadasam tatka \ 
Vrihat sama tathokthancha daxinad asrijad mukhat \ samani 
jagatichhandah stomam saptadasam, tatka \ vairupam atiratran- 

3 This text, Rig-veda iii. 62, 10, will be quoted in the sequel. 



sect, n.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 7 

cha paschimad asrijad mukhat \ ekavimsam atharvanam aptor- 
yamanam evacha \ Anushtubham sa vairajam uttarad asrijad 
mukhat. " From his first mouth Brahma formed the gayatra, 
the rik verses, the trivrit, the sama-rathantara. From his 
southern mouth he created the yajush verses, the trishtubh 
metre, the panchadasa-stoma, the vrihat-sama, and the ukthas. 
From his western mouth he formed the sama verses, the jagatl 
metre, the saptadasa-stoma, the vairupa, and the atiratra. 
From his northern mouth he framed the ekavinsa, the atharvan, 
with the anushtubh and viraj metres." 4 

In like manner it is said, but with variations, in the Bbaga- 
vata Purana iii. 12, 34, and 37 ff. : — Kadachid dhyayatah srash- 
tur veda asams chaturmukhat \ katharh sraxyamyaham lokan 
samavetan yatha, pura | . . . Rig-yajuh-samatharvakhyan vedan 
purvadibhir mukhaty \ sastram ijyam stutistomam prayaschittam 
vyadhat kramat. " Once the Vedas sprang from the four-faced 
creator, as he was meditating ' how shall I create the aggregate 
worlds as before ? ' . . . He formed from his eastern and other 
mouths the Vedas called Rik, Yajush, Saman, and Atharvan, 
together with praise, sacrifice, hymns, and expiation." And in 
verse 45 it is stated that the ushnih metre issued from his hairs, 
the gayatrl from his skin, the trishtubh from his flesh, the 
anushtubh from his tendons, the jagatl from his bones." (Tas- 
yoshnig asll lomebhyo gayatrlcha tvacho vibhoh \ trishtup mam- 
sat snuto 'nushtup jagaty asthnah Prajapateh.) 

Vrihad Aranyaka. — According to the following passage of the 
Vrihad Aranyaka Upanishad (p. 455 of Koer's Ed. and p. 179 
of Trans. =Satapatha Brahmana, p. 1064) the Vedas, as well as 
other sastras are the breath of Brahma : — Sa yatha ardrendh- 
agner abhyahitat prithag dhuma vinischaranti evaw va are 'sya 
mahato bhutasya nisvasitam etad yad rigvedo yqjurvedah sama- 
vedo 'tharvdngirasa itihasah puranam vidya upanishadah slokah 

4 See Wilson's Trans, p. 42. As it is sufficient for my purpose that certain parts 
of the different Vedas are intended by the several terms employed in this passage, 
I have left them all untranslated. 



8 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chai>. i. 

sutrdny anuvydkhydndni vydkhydndni asyaiva etani sarvam ni- 
svasitdni. " As from a fire made of moist wood various modifi- 
cations of smoke proceed, so is the breathing of this great Being 
the Eig-veda, the Yajur-veda, the Sama-veda, the Atharvangi- 
rases, the Itihasas, Puranas, science, the Upanishads, verses 
(slokas), aphorisms, comments of different kinds— all these are 
his breathings." 5 

It is curious that in this passage the Vedas appear to be 
classed in the same category with various other works, such 
as the Sutras, from some at least of which (as we shall see 
further on), they are broadly distinguished by later writers, whq 
regard the former (including the Brahmanas and Upanishads) 
as of superhuman origin, while this character is expressly denied 
to the latter, which are represented as paurusheya, or merely 
human compositions. • 

Harivansa. — In the first section of the Harivansa, v. 47, the 
creation of the Vedas by Brahma is thus briefly alluded to : — 
Richo yajumshi samani nirmame yajnasiddhaye \ sddhyds tair 
ay cyan devdn ity evam anususruma. " In order to the accom- 
plishment of sacrifice, he formed the Rik, Yajush, and Sama 
verses : with these the Sadhyas worshipped the gods, as we have 
heard." 

The following is a more particular account of the same event 
given in another part of the same work ; Harivansa, verse 
11,516 : — Tato 'srijad vai tripaddm gdyatrm vedamdtaram \ 
Akarochchaiva chaturo vedan gdyatri-sambhavan. After fram- 
ing the world, Brahma " next created the gdyatrl of three lines, 

5 In another part of the same TJpanishad (pp. 50 — 53 of Dr. Roer's Ed.) Praj&pati 
[identified with Death, or the Devourer] is said to have produced vach (speech), and 

through her, together with Soul, to have created all things, including the Vedas : 

sa taya vacha tena atmana idem sarvam asrijata yad idaih kincha richo yajumshi 
samani chhandamsi yajnan prajah pasun. " By that speech and that soul he created 
all things whatsoever, Rik, Yajush, and Sama texts, metres, sacrifices, creatures 
animals." And in a suhsequent text of the same work (p. 290) it is said : — Trayo 
veda etc eva | vagwa rig-vedo mano yajur-vedah pranah sama-vedah. " The three 
Vedas are [identifiable with] these three things [speech, mind, and life]. Speech is 
the Rig-veda; mind the Yajur-veda; and life, the Sama-veda." 



sect ir.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHOKS. 9 

mother of the Vedas, and also the four Vedas which sprang from 
the gdyatrl." 

A little further on we find this expanded into the following 
piece of mysticism, verse 11,665, ff. : — Samahita-mana Brahma 
moxapraptena hetuna \ chandra-mandala-samsthanaj jyotistejo 
mahat tada \ Pravisya hridayam xipram gayatrya nayanantare \ 
Garbhasya sambhavo yascha chaturdhapurushatmakah \ Brahma- 
tejomayo 'vyaktali sasvato 'tha dkruvo 'vyayah \ na chendriya- 
gunair yukto yuktas tejogunena cha \ chandramsu-vimala-prakhyo 
bhrajishnur varna-samsthitali \ Netrabhyam janayad deva rig- 
vedam yajusha saha \ samavedancha jihvagrad atharvanancha 
murddhatah \ Jatamatrastu te vedah xetram vindanti tattva- 
tah | Tena vedatvam apanna yasmad vindanti tatpadam \ Te 
srijanti tada veda brahma purvam sanatanam | Purusham div- 
yarupabham svaih svair bkavair manobhavaih. " For the 
emancipation of the world, Brahma, sunk in contemplation, 
issuing in a luminous form from the region of the moon, 
penetrated into the heart of Gayatri, entering between her 
eyes. From her there was then produced a quadruple being, 
lustrous as Brahma, indistinct, and eternal, undecaying, de- 
void of bodily senses or qualities, distinguished by the attri- 
bute of brilliancy, pure as the rays of the moon, radiant, and 
embodied in letters. The god fashioned the Eig-veda, with the 
Yajush, from his eyes, the Sama-veda from the tip of his tongue, 
and the Atharvan from his head. These Vedas, as soon as they 
are born, find a body (xetra). Hence they obtain their charac- 
ter of Vedas, because they Jind {vindanti) that abode. These 
Vedas then create the pre-existent eternal brahma (sacrifice or 
ceremonial), a being of celestial form, with their own mind-born 
qualities." 

I extract another passage on the same subject from a later 
section of the same work, verses 12,425, if. When the Supreme 
Being was intent on creating the universe, Hiranyagarbha, or 
Prajapati, issued from his mouth, and was desired to divide him- 
self,— -a process which he was in great doubt how he should 



10 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

effect. The text then proceeds :— Iti chintayatas tasya om ity 
evotthitali svarah \ sa bkumav antarlxe cha nake cha kritavan 
svanam \ Tanchaivabhyasatas tasya manah-saramayam punali \ 
hridayad deva-devasya vashatkarah samutthitah \ bhumyanta- 
rixa-nakanam bhuyah svaratmakali parali | mahasmritimaydh 
puny a mahavyahritayo 'bhavan \ chhandasam pravara dem cha- 
turvimsdxara 'bhavat \ Tatpadam samsmaran divyam savitrlm 
akarot prabhuli \ rik-samatharva-yajushas chaturo bhagavan 
prabhuh | chakara nikhilan vedan brahmayuktena karmana. 
" While he was thus reflecting, the sound om issued from him, 
and resounded throughout the earth, atmosphere, and sky. 
While the God of gods was again and again repeating this, the 
essence of the mind, the vashatkwra proceeded from his heart. 
Next, the sacred vyahritis (bhur, bhuvah, svar) formed of the great 
smriti, the most excellent emblems of earth, atmosphere, and 
sky were produced. Then appeared the goddess, the most excel- 
lent of metres, with twenty -four syllables [the gayatrl\. Re- 
flecting on the divine text [beginning with] tad, the Lord formed 
the savitri. He then produced all the Vedas, the Rik, Saman, 
Atharvan, and Yajush, with their prayers and rites." (See 
also the passage from the Bhag. Pur. xii. 6, 37, ff., which will be 
quoted in a following section.) 

Mahabharata. — The Mahabharata in one passage speaks of 
the goddess SarasvatI as the mother of the Vedas. Santi P. 
verse 12,920 : — Vedanam mataram pasyamatstham devlm Saras- 
vatim. " Behold SarasvatI, mother of the Vedas, abiding in me." 

I will add here two passages, of a somewhat similar character, 
from the Rik and Atharva Sanhitas, though they ought, strictly 
speaking, to have been reserved for the next chapter. 

Rig-veda. — In the 9th verse of the Purusha Stlkta (already 
quoted in Part First, pp. 7 and 8), the three Vedas are said to 
have been derived from the mystical victim Purusha. " From 
that universal sacrifice were produced the hymns called Rik and 
Saman, the metres, and the Yajush." 

Atharva-veda.— In regard to the origin of two of the Vedas, 



sect, ii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 11 

the Atharva-veda says, xix. 54, 3 : — Kalad richah samabhavan 
yajuh kalad ajayata. " From time the Eik verses sprang ; the 
Yajush sprang from time." 6 

Manu. — According to the verses in Manu, xii. 49, 50, quoted in 
Part First of this work, p. 18, the Vedas, with the other beings 
and objects named along with them, constitute the second mani- 
festation of the sattva guna, or pure principle ; while Brahma is 
placed in a higher rank, as one of the first manifestations of the 
same principle. The word Veda in this passage is explained by 
Kulluka of those " embodied deities, celebrated in the Itihasas, 
who preside over the Vedas." ( Yedabhimaninyascha devata vig- 
rahavatya itihasa-prasiddah.) 

Vishnu Parana. — At the end of Section 6 of the third book of 
the V. P. (p. 285 of Wilson's Trans.) we have the following asser- 
tion of the eternity of the Veda : — Iti sakhah prasankhyatah 
sakhabhedas tathaiva cha \ karttaraschaiva sakhanam bhedaketus 
tatkoditah \ sarvamanvantareshveva sakhabhedafi samali smritah \ 
Prajapatya srutir nitya tadvikalpas tv ime dvija. "Thus the 
Sakhas, their divisions, their authors, and the cause of the divi- 
sion have been declared. In all the manvantaras the divisions 
of the Sakhas are recorded to be the same. The sruti (Veda) 
derived from Prajapati (Brahma) is eternal : these, o Brahman, 
are only its modifications." 

In another passage of the same book, Vishnu is identified with 
the Vedas. Vish. Pur. iii. 3, 19 ff. (Wilson, p. 274) :— Sa ring- 
mayali samamayah sa chatma sa yajurmayali \ rig-yajuh-sama- 
saratma sa evatma sarvrinam \ sa bhidyate vedamayah sa vedam 
karoti bhedair bahubhih sasakham \ sakhapraneta sa samasta- 
sakha jndnasvarUpo bhagavan anantdh. ' He is composed of the 
Rik, of the Saman, of the Yajush ; he is the soul. Consisting of 
the essence of the Eik, Yajush, and Saman, he is the soul of 



" The Vishnu Purana, 1, 2, 13 (Wilson's Trans, p. 9), says : — Tad eva sarvam 
waitad vyaklavyaktasvarupavat \ Tatha purusharupena kalarupena cha sthitam. 
" This Brahma is all this universe, existing both as the indiscrete and the discrete ; 
existing also in the form of Pwusha and of Kala (time)." 



12 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

embodied spirits. Formed of the Veda, he is divided; he forms 
the Veda and its branches {sakhas) into many divisions. Framer 
of the Sakhas, he is also their entirety, the infinite lord, whose 
essence is knowledge." 

Sect. III. — Manu's conception of the dignity and authority of the Veda, 
with some statements of a different tenor from him and other writers. 

Manu employs the following honorific expressions in reference 
to the Vedas (xii. 94 ff.) : — Pitri-deva-manushyanam vedas 
chaxuh sanatanam \ a'sakyanchaprameyancha veda-sastram iti 
sthitih || YcL veda-vahyali smritayo yascha kascha kudrishtayah | 7 
sarvas ta nishphalali pretya tamonishtha hi tah smritah || Utpad- 
yante chyavante cha yany ato 'nyani kanichit \ Tany arvak- 
kalikataya* nishphalany anritani cha || Chdturvarnyam trayo 
lokas ckatvaras chasramah prithak \ Bhutam bhavad bhavish- 
yaficha sarvam vedat prasiddhyati || sabdali sparsascha rupan- 
cha raso gandhascha panckamah \ vedad eva prasiddhyanti pra- 
suti-guna-karmatah || Bibhartti 9 sarva-bhutani veda-sastram 
sanatanam \ Tasmad etat par am manye yaj jantor asya sadha- 
nam || Sainapatyancha rajyaiicha danda-netritvam eva cha \ 
sarva-lokadhipatywEcha veda-sastra-vid arhati || Yathd jata-balo 
vahnir dahyaty ardran apt druman \ tatha dahati vedajnah 
karmajam dosham atmanah \ veda-sastrartha-tattvajfio yatra 
tatrasrame vasan \ Ihaiva loke tishthan sa brahmabhuyaya kal- 
pate. " The Veda is the eternal eye of the patriarchs, of gods, 
and of men ; it is beyond human power and comprehension ; 

' Drishtarth<i-va,lcyani' l chaityavandanat svargo bhavati' ity admi yani cha asal- 
tarka-mulani devata-'punadi-nirakaranatmalcani veda-viruddhani charvaka-darsa- 
nani: — " That is, deductions from experience of the visible world; such doctrines as 
that 'heaven is attained by obeisance to a chaitya,' and similar Charvaka tenets 
founded on false reasonings, contradicting the existence of the gods, and the efficacy 
of religious rites, and contrary to the Vedas."— Kulluka. 

8 Idanintanatvat. " From their modernness." — Kulluka. 

9 Havir agnau huyate, so 'agnir adityam upaaarpati, tat suryo rasmibhir var- 
shati, tenannam bhavati, atheha bhutanam utpatti-sthitischeti havir jayate iti brah- 
manam. " The oblation is cast into the fire ; fire reaches the sun ; the sun causes 
rain by his rays ; thence food is produced ; thus the oblation becomes the cause of the 
generation and maintenance of creatures ; so says a Brahmana." — Kulluka. 



sect, in.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BT INDIAN AUTHORS. 13 

this is a certain conclusion. Whatever traditions are apart from 
the Veda, and all heretical views, are fruitless in the next world, 
for they are declared to be founded on darkness. All other 
[books] external to the Veda, which arise and pass away, are 
worthless and false from their recentness of date. The system 
of the four castes, the three worlds, the four states of life, all 
that has been, now is, or shall be, is made manifest by the Veda. 
The objects of touch and taste, sound, form, and odour, as the 
fifth, are made known by the Veda, together with their products, 
qualities, and the actions they occasion. The eternal Veda sup- 
ports all beings : hence I regard it as the principal instrument 
of well-being to this creature, man. Command of armies, royal 
authority, the administration of criminal justice, and the sove- 
reignty of all worlds, he alone deserves who knows the Veda. 
As fire, when it has acquired force, burns up even green trees, 
so he who knows the Veda consumes the taint of his soul which 
has been contracted from works. He who comprehends the 
essential meaning of the Veda, in whatever order of life he may 
be, is prepared for absorption into Brahma, even while abiding 
in this lower world." 

The following are some further miscellaneous passages of the 
same tenor, scattered throughout the Institutes (Manu ii. 10 ff.) : 
— Srutistu vedo vijneyo dharma-sastrantu vai smritik \ te sanar- 
theshv amimaihsye tabhyam dkarmo hi nirbabhau | 11. Yo 
'vamanyeta te mule hetu-sastrasrayad dvijah \ sa sadkubhir 
vahishkaryyo nastiko vedanindakah | 13. . . . Dharmarh jijnasa- 
mananam pramanam paramarh srutih. " By sruti is meant the 
Veda, and by smriti the institutes of law: the contents of these 
are not to be questioned by reason, since from them [a know- 
ledge of] duty has shone forth. The Brahman who, relying on 
rationalistic treatises, 10 shall contemn these two primary sources 

10 This, however, must be read in conjunction with the precept in xii. 106, which 
declares: — arsham dharmopadesaneha veda-saslramrodhina | yas tarkmanmandhatte 
sa dharmarh veda naparah. " He, and he only is acquainted with duty, who investi- 
gates the injunctions of the rishis, and the precepts of the smriti, by reasonings which 
do not contradict the Veda." 



14 ' OPINIONS REGARDING THE'ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

of knowledge, must be excommunicated by the virtuous as a 
sceptic and reviler of the Vedas. ... 13. To those who are seek- 
ing a knowledge of duty, the sruti is the supreme authority." 

In the following passage, the necessity of a knowledge of 
Brahma is asserted, though the practice of ritual observances 
is also inculcated (vi. 82, ff.) : — Dhyanikam sarvam evaitad 
yad etad abhi'sabditam \ na hy anadhyatma-vit kaschit kriyapha- 
lam upasnute \ adkiyqjnam brahma japed adhidaivikam eoa cha | 
adhyatmikaneha satatam vedantabhihitancha yat \ Idam sara- 
nam ajnanam idam eoa vijanatam | idam anvichchhatdm svar- 
gam idam anantyam ichchhatam. "All this which has been 
now declared is dependant on devout meditation : no one who 
is ignorant of the supreme spirit can reap the fruit of ceremo- 
nial acts. Let a man repeat texts relating to sacrifice, texts 
relating to deities, texts relating to the supreme spirit, and 
whatever is declared in the Vedanta. This [Veda] is the refuge 
of the ignorant, as well as of the understanding ; it is the refuge 
of those who are seeking after paradise, as well as of those who 
are desiring infinity." 

The following text breathes a moral spirit, by representing 
purity of life as essential to the reception of benefit from religious 
observances (ii. 97) : — Vedas tyagascha yajnascha niyamascha 
tapamsi cha \ na vipradushta-bhavasya siddhim gachhanti karehi- 
chit. " The Vedas, almsgiving, sacrifices, observances, austerities, 
are ineffectual to a man of depraved disposition." 

The doctrine which may be drawn from the following lines 
does not seem so favourable to morality (xi. 261, ff.) : — Hatva 
lokan aplmans trln asnann api yatastatah \ Rigvedam dharayan 
vipro nainah prapnoti kinchana \ Riksamhitam trir abhyasya 
yajusham va samaMtati \ samndm va sarahasyanam sarvapapaih 
pramuchyate \ yatha maha-hradam prapya ociptam loshtam, vinas- 
yati | tatha dusckaritam sarvam vede trivriti majjati. "A 
Brahman who should destroy these three worlds, and eat food 
received from any quarter whatever, would incur no guilt if he 
retained in his memory the [whole] Eig-veda. Repeating thrice 



sect, in.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD bY INDIAN AUTHORS. 15 

with intent mind the sanhita of the Eik, or the Yajush, or the 
Sfiman, with the Upanishads, he is freed from all his sins. Just 
as a clod thrown into a great lake is dissolved when it touches 
the water, so does all sin sink in the" triple Veda." 

Considering the sacredness ascribed in the preceding passages 
to all the Vedas, the epithet applied to the Sama-veda in the 
second of the following verses is remarkable (Manu iv. 123, ff.) : 
Samadhvanav rigyajushi nadhlylta kadachana \ vedasyddhitya 
vcb'py antam aranyakam adhltya cha \ Rigvedo devadaivatyo 
yqjurvedastu manushafy \ Samavedali smritah pitryas tasmat tas- 
yasuehir dhvanih. " Let no one read the Rik or the Yajush 
while the Saman is sounding in his ears, or after he has read the 
conclusion of the Veda {i.e. the Vedanta) or an Aranyaka. The 
Rig-veda has the gods for its deities, the Yajur-veda has men for 
its objects, the Sama-veda has the pitris for its divinities, where- 
fore its sound is impure." 

The scholiast Kulluka, however, will not allow that the Sama- 
veda can be " really impure." " It has," he says, " only a 
semblance of impurity " {tasmat tasya asuchir iva dhvanili \ na 
tv asuchir eva). In this remark he evinces the tendency, 
incident to many systematic theologians, to ignore all those 
features of the sacred text on which they are commenting which 
are at variance with their theories regarding its absolute perfec- 
tion. As it was the opinion of his age that the Veda was eternal 
and divine, it was, he considered, impossible that impurity or 
any species of fault could be predicated of any of its parts ; and 
every expression, even of the highest authorities, which contra- 
dicted this opinion, had to be explained away. I am not in a 
position to state how this notion of impurity came to be attached 
to the Sama-veda. The passage perhaps proceeded from the 
adherents of some particular Vedic school adverse to the Sama- 
veda; but its substance being found recorded in some earlier 
work, it was deemed of sufficient authority to find a place in 
the miscellaneous collection of precepts,— gathered no doubt 
from different quarters, and perhaps not always strictly con- 



16 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

sistent with each other,— which make up the Manava-dharina- 
sastra. 

Vishnu Purana The following passage from the Vishnu 

Purana, at the close, ascribes the same character of impurity to 
the Sama-veda, though on different grounds, Vish. Pur. ii. 11, 5 
(Wilson, p. 235) : — Yd tu saktih para, Vishnor rig-yajuh-sdma- 
sanjfatd \ saisha trayi tapaty ainho jagatascha hinasti yat \ saiva 
Vishnuh sthitdh sthitydmjagatahpdlanodyatah \ rig-yqjuk-sdma- 
bhuto 'ntah savitur dvija tishthati \ mdsi mdsi ravir yo yas tatra 
tatra hi sd para \ traylmayi Vishnu-saktir avasthdnam karoti vai \ 
Richas tapanti purvdhne madhydhne 'tha yajumshy atha \ vrihad- 
rathantarddlni sdmany ahnali xaye ravau \ angam eshd trayi 
Vishnor rig-yajuh-sdma-sanjnitd \ Vishnu-saktir avasthdnam 
mdsdditye karoti sd \ na kevalam ravau saktir vaishnam sd tra- 
ylmayi | Brahmd 'tha Purusho Budras trayam etat trayvma- 
yam \ sargdddv ringmayo Brahma sthitau Vishnur yajurmayah \ 
Rudrah sdmamayo 'ntdya tasmdt tasydsuchir dhvanih. "The 
supreme energy of Vishnu, called the Elk, Yajush, and Saman — this 
triad burns up sin and all things injurious to the world. During 
the continuance of the world, this triad exists as Vishnu, who is 
occupied in the preservation of the universe, and in the form of 
the Rik, Yajush, and Saman, abides within the sun. That 
supreme energy of Vishnu, consisting of the triple Veda, dwells 
in the particular form of the sun, which presides over each 
month. The Rik verses shine in the morning sun, the Yajush 
verses in his meridian beams, and the Vrihad rathantara and other 
Sama verses in his declining rays. This triple Veda is the body 
of Vishnu, and this his energy abides in the monthly sun. But 
this energy of Vishnu, formed of the triple Veda, does not reside 
in the sun alone ; Brahma, Purusha (Vishnu), and Budra also 
constitute a triad formed of the triple Veda. At the creation, 
Brahma is formed of the Rig-veda ; during the continuance of 
the universe, Vishnu is composed of the Yajur-veda ; and for 
the destruction of the worlds, Rudra is made up of the Sama- 
veda ; hence the sound of this Veda is impure." 



sect, in.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 17 

Vayu Purana Other passages also may be found in works 

not reputed to be heretical, in which the Vedas, or particular 
parts of them, are not spoken of with the same degree of respect 
as they are by Manu. Thus the Vayu Purana gives precedence 
to the Puranas over the Vedas in the order of creation (i. 56 n ) : 
— Prathamam sarva-sdstrdndm Puranam Brahmand smritam \ 
anantarancha vaktrebhyo vedas tasya vinissritdh. " First of all 
the Sastras, the Purana was uttered by Brahma. Subsequently 
the Vedas issued from his mouths." 

The same Purana says further on in the same section (p. 50 
of Dr. Aufrecht's Catalogue) : — Yo vidydch chaturo veddn sdn- 
gopanishado dvijali \ na chet puranam samvidydd naiva sa sydd 
vichaocanali \ Itikasa-puranabkyam vedan samupavrimhayet \ 
vibhety alpa'srutdd vedo mam ay am praharishyati. "He who 
knows the four Vedas, with their supplements and Upanishads, 
is not really learned, unless he know also the Puranas. Let a 
man, therefore, complete the Vedas by adding the Itihasas and 
Puranas. The Veda is afraid of a man of little learning, lest he 
should treat it injuriously." 

Brahma-vaivartta Purana. — The Brahma-vaivartta Purana 
asserts in a yet more audacious manner its own superiority to 
the Veda (i. 48 ff.) : — Bhavagan yat tvaya prishtam jndtam 
sarvam abhipsitam \ sarabhutam purdneshu Brahma-vaivarttam 
uttamam \ Puranopapurdnanam vedandm bhrama-bhanjanam. 
"That about which, venerable sage, you have inquired, is all 
known by me, the essence of the Puranas, the pre-eminent 
Brahma-vaivartta, which refutes the errors of the Puranas and 
Upapuranas, and of the Vedas." (Aufrecht's Cat. p. 21.) 

In the following passage also, from the commencement of the 
Mundaka TJpanishad, the Vedic hymns (though a divine origin, 
would no doubt be allowed to them 12 ) are at all events depre- 

11 P. 48 of Dr. Aufrecht's Catalogue of Sanskrit MSS. in the Bodleian Library at 
Oxford. 

18 In fact the following verses (4 and 6) occur in the second chapter of the same 
Mund. Up. : — 4. Agnir murddha chaxushT chandrasuryyau disali srotre vag vwri- 
tascha vedah | vayuh prano hridayam viivam asya padbhyam prithivi hy esha sarva- 

2 



18 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

dated, by being classed among other works as part of the in- 
ferior science, in contrast to the Brahma-vidya or knowledge of 
Brahma, the highest of all knowledge, which is expressly ascribed 
to Brahma as its author : — 1. Brahma, devanam prathamah sam- 
babhuva visvasya kartta bhuvanasya gopta \ sa brahmavidyam 
sarvavidyapratishtham Atharvaya jyeshthaputraya praha | 2. 
Atharvane yam pravadeta Brahma Atharva tarn purovach ' An- 
gire brahmavidyam \ sa Bharadvajaya Satyavahaya praha Bha- 
radvajo 'ngirase paravaram | 3. Saunako ha vai Mahasalo 'ngira- 
sam vidhivad upapannah prapachcha \ kasmin nu bhagavo mnjate 
sarvam idam vijnatam bhavatiti \ 4. Tasmai sa hovacha \ dve 
vidye veditavye iti ha sma yad brahmavido vadanti para chaiva- 
para cha | 5. Tatrapara rigvedo yajurvedah samavedo 'tharva- 
vedah sixa kalpo vyakaranam niruktam chhando jyotisham iti | 
atha para yaya tad axaram adhigamyate. " Brahma was pro- 
duced the first among the gods, maker of the universe, preserver 
of the world. He revealed to his eldest son Atharvan, the 
science of Brahma, the support of all knowledge. 2. Atharvan 
of old declared to Angis this science, which Brahma had un- 
folded to him ; and Angis, in turn, explained it to Satyavaha, 
descendant of Bharadvaja, who delivered this traditional lore [or 
the higher and lower science] to Angiras. 3. Saunaka, the 
great householder, approaching Angiras in due form, inquired, 
' What is that, venerable sage, through the knowledge of 
which all this [universe] becomes known?' 4. [Angiras] 
answered, 'Two sciences are to be known — this is what the 
sages acquainted with Brahma declare— the superior and the 
inferior. 5. The inferior [consists of] the Eig-veda, the Yajur- 
veda, the Sama-veda, the Atharva-veda, accentuation, ritual, 

bhutantaratma | . . . 6. Tasmad richah sama ymumshi eCixa yajnascha sarve Teratoma 
daxinaieha \ samvatmranoha yajamanaieha lakah soma yatra parale yatra suryah. 
" Agni is hie [Brahma's] head, the sun and moon are his eyes, the four points of the 
compass are his ears, the uttered Vedas are his voice, the air is his breath, the uni- 
verse is his heart, the earth issued from his feet : he is the inner soul of all creatures. 
, . . From him came the Rik verses, the Saman, the Yajush verses, initiatory rites, 
all oblations, sacrifices, and gifts, the year, the sacrificer, and the worlds where the 
moon and sun purify." 



sect, in.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHOKS. 19 

grammar, commentary, prosody, and astronomy. The superior 
science is that by which the imperishable is comprehended."' 

It is to be remarked that in this passage (verse 5) as in that 
already quoted above (p. 7) from the Vrihad Aryanyaka Upani- 
shad, the most essential parts of the Vedas, the sanhitas, are 
classed in the same category with the Kalpa or ceremonial insti- 
tutes, and other works, from which they are separated by a 
broad line of demarcation in the works of later writers. 

The following passage from the Katha Upanishad (ii. 23) is 
of a somewhat similar tenor (p. 107 of Koer's ed. and p. 106 of 
Eng. trans.) : — Nayam atma pravachanena labhyo na medhaya 
na bahuna srutena \ yam evaisha vrinute tena labhyas tasyaisha 
atma vrinute tanurn svam. " This soul is not to be attained by 
tradition, nor by understanding, nor by much scripture. He is 
attainable by him whom he chooses. The soul chooses that 
man's body as his own." 

The scholiast interprets thus the first part of this text : — 
Yadyapi durvijneyo 'yam atma tathdpy upayena suvij&eya eva 
ity aha nayam atma pravachanena aneha-veda-smkaranena labhyo 
jrieyo napi medhaya granthartha-dharana-saktya na bahuna 
srutena kevalena \ kena tar hi labhya ity uchyate. " Although 
this soul is difficult to know, still it may easily be known by 
the use of proper means. This is what [the author] proceeds to 
say. This soul is not to be attained, known, by tradition, by the 
acknowledgment of many Vedas ; nor by understanding, by the 
power of recollecting the contents of books ; nor by much scrip- 
ture alone. By what, then, is it to be attained ? This he de- 
clares." 

It is not necessary to follow the scholiast into the Vedantic 
explanation of the rest of the passage. 13 

13 See Prof. Muller's Anc. Sans. Lit. 1st ed. p. 320, and p. 109. 



,20 OPINIONS EEGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

Sect. IV. — Division of the Vedas, according to the Vishnu, Vayu, and 
Bhdgavata Puranas, and the Mahabharata. 

The Vishnu Purana gives the following account of the divi- 
sion of the Veda, described as having been originally but one, 
into four parts, iii. 2, 18 (see Wilson's Trans, p. 270) -.—Krite 
yuge par am jnanam Kapiladi-svarupa-dhrik \ dadati sarva-bku- 
tanam sarva-bkutahite ratah \ chakravartti-svarupena Tretaydm 
api sa prabhuh \ Dushtanafr nigraham kurvan paripati jagat- 
trayam \ Vedam ekam chaturbhedam kritva sakhd-satair vibhuh \ 
karoti bahulam bhuyo Yedavyasa-svarupa-dhrik \ vedams tu dva- 
pare vyasya, etc. " In the Krita age, Vishnu, devoted to the 
welfare of all creatures, assumes the form of Kapila and others 
to confer upon them the highest knowledge. In the Treta age, 
the Supreme Lord, in the form of a universal potentate, represses 
the violence of the wicked, and protects the three worlds. Assum- 
ing the form of Vyasa, the all-pervading Being repeatedly divides 
the single Veda into four parts, and multiplies it by distributing 
it into hundreds of sakhas. Having thus divided the Vedas in 
the Dvapara age," etc. 

This is repeated more at length in the following section (Vish. 
Pur. iii. 3, 4 ff.) : — Veda-drumasya Maitreya sakhabhedaih 
sakasrasah \ na sakyo vistaro vaktum samxepena srinusftva tarn \ 
Dvapare Dvapare Visknur Vyasarupi mahamune \ Vedam ekam 
sa bahudha kurute jagato kitali \ viryam tejo balanchalpam 
manushyanam avexya vai \ hitaya sarvabhutanam veda-bkedan 
karoti sah \ yaya sa kurute tanva vedam ekam prithak prabhuh \ 
Vedavyasabkidkana tu sa murttir Madhuvidvishah | . . . Askta- 
vifr'sati-kritw vai veda vyasta maharshibhih \ Vaivasvate 'ntare 
tasmin Dvapareshu punah punah. " It is not possible, Maitreya, 
to describe in detail the tree of the Vedas with its thousand 
branches {sakhas) ; but listen to a summary. A friend to the 
world, Vishnu, in the form of Vyasa, divides the single Veda 
into many parts. He does so for the good of all creatures, 
because he perceives the vigour, energy, and strength of men to 



sect, iv.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 21 

be now but limited. Vedavyasa, in whose person he performs this 
division, is an impersonation of the enemy of Madhu (Vishnu). 
... Eight-and-twenty times in the Dvapara ages of this Vaivas- 
vata manvantara " have the Vedas been divided by great sages." 
These sages are then enumerated, and Krishna Dvaipayana 16 is 
the twenty-eighth. 

The subject is resumed at the beginning of the next section 
( Vish. Pur. iii. 4, 1 ff.) : — Adyo vedas chatushpadah sata-sahas- 
ra-sammitah \ Tato dasa-gunah kritsno yajno 'yarn, sarva-kdma- 
dhuk | Tato 'tra matsuto Vyaso ' shtavifhsatitame 'ntare \ vedam 
ekam chatushpddam chaturdha vyabhajat prabhitli \ yatha tu 
tena vai vyasta Vedavydsena dhlmatd \ Vedas tatha samastais 
tair vyasta Vydsais tatha mayd \ tad anenaiva veddnam sdkhd- 
bheddn dvijottama \ chaturyugeshu rachitdn samasteskv ava- 
dhdraya \ Krishna-dvaipayanam Vyasam viddhi Ndrdyanam pra- 
bhum | ko 'nyo hi bhuvi Maitreya Mahabharata-krid' bhavet \ 
Tena vyasta yatha Veda matputrena mahdtmand \ Dvapare hy 
atra Maitreya tad me srinu yatkdrthatah \ Brahmana chodito 
Vyaso veddn vyastum prachakrame \ Atha sishyan sa jagrdha 
chaturo veda-pdragdn \ Rigveda-srdvakam Pailarh jagrdha sa 
mahamunih \ Vaisampayana-ndmanam Yajurvedasya chdgrahlt \ 
Jaiminim sdma-vedasya tathaivdtharvaveda-vit \ Sumantus tasya 
sishyo 'bhud Vedavydsasya dhlmatah \ Bomaharshana-namd- 
nam mahdbuddhim mahamunbn \ Sutam, jagrdha sishyam sa 
itihdsa-purdnayoh. " The original Veda, four-footed [or in four 
quarters] consisted of a hundred thousand verses. From it arose 
the entire system of sacrifice, of ten descriptions [or of tenfold 

14 For an account of the Manvantaras, see the First Part of this work, pp. 18, 19. 

15 Lassen (Ind. Ant. i. 629, note) remarks : — " Vyasa signifies arrangement, and 
this signification had still retained its place in the recollection of the ancient recorders 
of the legend, who have formed from his name an irregular perfect, viz. vivt/asa." 
Lassen refers to two passages of the Mahabharata in which the name is explained, 
viz. (i. 2417), Vivyasa vedan yasmat sa tasmad Vyasa iti smritah. " He is called 
Vyasa because he divided the Veda." And (i. 4236) To vyasya Vedams chaturas 
tapasa bhagavan rishih ] Lake vyasatva/m apede fcarslmyat hrishnatvam eva efia. 
" The divine "sage (Krishna Dvaipayana Vyasa) who, through intense devotion, 
divided the four Vedas, and so obtained in the world the title of Vyasa, and from his 
blackness, the name of Krishna." 



22 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chat. i. 

efficacy ?], and yielding all the objects of desire. Subsequently, 
in the twenty-eighth period, my son (it is Parasara who is the 
speaker), the mighty Vyasa divided into four parts the one four- 
quartered Veda. In the same way as the Vedas were divided by 
the wise Vyasa, so had they been divided by all the [preceding] 
Vyasas, including myself. And know that the sakha divisions 
[formed] by him [were the same as those] formed in all the 
periods of four yugas. Learn, too, that Krishna Dvaipayana 
Vyasa was the lord Narayana, for who else on earth could have 
composed the Mahabharata? Hear now correctly how the 
Vedas were divided by him, my great-souled son, in this 
Dvapara age. When, commanded by Brahma, Vyasa under- 
took to divide the Vedas, he took four disciples who had read 
through those books. The great muni took Paila as teacher of 
the Rik, Vaisampayana of the Yajush, and Jaimini of the Saman, 
while Simiantu, skilled in the Atharvaveda, was also his disciple. 
He took, too, as his pupil for the Itihasas and Puranas the great 
and intelligent muni, Stlta, called Eomaharshana." 

Vayu Purana. — In the same way, and partly in the same 
words, the Vayu Purana (Section 1.x.) represents the Vedas to 
have been divided in the Dvapara age. It first describes how 
this was done by Manu in the Svayambhuva, or first Manvan- 
tara, and then recounts how Vyasa performed the same task in 
the existing seventh, or Vaivasvata Manvantara ; and, no doubt, 
also in the Dvapara age, though this is not expressly stated in 
regard to Vyasa. 

- The following is an extract from this passage (as given in 
Dr. Aufrecht's Catalogue, p. 54) : — Dvdpare tu puravritte Manoh 
svayambhuve 'ntare | Brahma Manum uvdchedam vedam vyasya 
mahamate \ Parivrittam yugam lata svalpavlrya dvijatayah | 
samvritta yugadoshena sarvanchaiva yathakramam \ bhrashta- 
mdnam yagavasad alpasishtafh hi drisyate | Dasa-sahasra-bha- 
gena hy avasishtam kritad idam | vlryam tejo balanchalpam sar- 
vanchaiva pranasyati \ vede veda hi karyyah syur ma bhud veda- 
vinasanam \ vede nasam anupr'apte yajno ndsam gamishyati \ 



sect. iv.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 23 

yajne nashte deva-nasas tatali sarvam pranasyati \ Adyo vedas 
chatushpado sata-sahasra-sammitdl}, \ Punar dasa-gunah kritsno 
yajfio vai sarva-kama-dhuk \ Evam uktas tathety uktva Manur 
loka-hite ratal), \ vedam ekam chatush-padam chaturdha vyabhajat 
prabhuTi \ Brahmano vachanat tata lokanam hita-kamyaya \ tad 
aham varttamanena yushmakam veda-kalpanam | manvantarena 
vascyami vyatltanam prakalpanam \ pratyaxena paroxam vai tad 
nibodhata sattamah | Asmin yuge krito Vyasah parasaryah pa- 
rantapah \ Dvaipayana iti khyato Visknor amsah praklrttitah | 
Brahmana choditah so 'smin vedam vyastum prachakrame \ Atha 
sishyan sa jagraha chaturo vedakarandt \ Jaiminincha Suman- 
tuncha Vaisampayanam eva cha \ Pailam tesham chaturthantu 
panchamam Lomaharshanam. " In the former Dvapara of the 
Svayambhuva Manvantara, Brahma said to Mann, ' Divide the 
Veda, sage. The age is changed ; through its baneful influ- 
ence the Brahmans have become feeble, and from the same cause 
everything has been gradually corrupted, so that little [good] is 
seen remaining. Only a ten-thousandth part is now left of the 
vigour, fire, and energy of the Krita age, and everything 
declines. Vedas must be made out of the one Veda, lest the 
Veda be destroyed. The destruction of the Veda would involve 
the destruction of sacrifice ; that again would occasion the anni- 
hilation of the gods, and then everything would go to ruin. 
The primeval Veda was four-footed [or consisted of four quar- 
ters], and extended to one hundred thousand verses, while sacri- 
fice was of ten sorts [or tenfold efficacy], and yielded every object 
of desire.' Being thus addressed, Manu, the lord, devoted to 
the good of the world, replied, ' Be it so,' and in conformity 
with the command of Brahma, divided the one four-quartered 
Veda into four parts. 16 I shall, therefore, narrate to you the 
division of the Veda in the existing Manvantara ; from which 
present division you, virtuous sages, can understand those remote 

" The Maha Bhar. Santip. v. 13,678, says the Vedas were divided in the Svayam- 
bhuva Manvantara by Apantaratamas, son of Sarasvati. Tena b/rinnas tada veda 
mcmoh svayambhuvo 'ntare. 



24 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

arrangements of the same kind which were made in past Man- 
vantaras. In this Yuga, the victorious son of Parasara, who is 
called Dvaipayana, and is celebrated as a portion of Vishnu, has 
been made the Vyasa. In this [Yuga ?], he, being commanded 
by Brahma, began to divide the Vedas. For this purpose, he 
took four pupils, Jaimini, Sumantu, Vaisampayana, and Pail a, 
and, as a fifth, Lomaharshana" [for the Puranas and Itihasas, etc.] 

Bhagavata Purana. —It is in its Third Book, where the dif- 
ferent Manvantaras are described, that the Vishnu Purana gives 
an account of the division of the Vedas. In the book of the 
Bhagavata Purana, where the Manvantaras are enumerated, 
there is no corresponding allusion to the division of the Vedas. 
Towards the close of the Purana, however, in the sixth section 
of the twelfth book (verses 37 S.) there is to be found what Prof. 
Wilson (Vish. Pur. Pref. p. xxvii.) calls " a rather awkwardly 
introduced description of the arrangement of the Vedas and 
Puranas by Vyasa," which is no doubt brought in here, to sup- 
ply the omission which the original author, or some subse- 
quent editor, had discovered to exist in the earlier part of the 
work. 

The passage (as given in the Bombay lithographed edition) is 
as follows : — Suta uvacha \ samdhitdtmano brahman Brahmanah 
parameshthinah \ hrid-dkdsdd abhud nado vrittirodhad vibhdvyate\ 
yad-upasanayd brahman yogino malam dtmanah \ dravya-kriya- 
kdrakdlthyam dhutva ydnty apanurbhavam \ Tato 'bhut trivrid 
omkaro yo 'vya/tta-prabkavak svarat \ yat tallingam Bhagavato 
brahmanah paramatmanali \ srinoti ya imam sphotam supta- 
srotre cha sunyadrik \ yena vag vyajate yasya vyaktir akase atma- 
nah | svadhamno brahmanali saxad vachakah paramdtmanah \ 
sa-sarva-mantropanishad-veda-vyam sanatanam | tasya hyasams 
trayo varna a-ltaradya Bhrigudvaka \ dharyante yais trayo 
bhava guna namartha-vrittayah \ tato 'xara-samamnayam asrijad 
bhagavan ajah \ Antasthoshma-svara-sparsa-hrasva-dirghddi-Iax- 
anam \ tenasau chaturo vedafhs chaturbhir vadanair vibhuh | 
sa-vyahritikan somkdrdms chaturhotra-rivaxaya \ putrdn adhya- 



sect, iv.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 25 

payat tdmstu brahmarshm brahma-koviddn \ te tu dharmopa- 
deshtdrah svaputrebhyah samddisan | te paramparayd prdptds 
tattachchhishyair dhrita-vrataih \ chaturyugeshv at ha vyastd dvd- 
parddau maharshibhih \ xinayushali xlnasattvdn durmedhan 
vlxya kdlatah \ veddn brahmarshayo vyasyan (sic) hridisthdch- 
yuta-nodiidh \ Asminn apy antare brahman bhagavan loka-bhd- 
vanah \ brahmesddyair lokapalair yachito dharma-guptaye \ 
Parasarat Satyavatyam amsamsa-kalaya vibhuh \ avatlrno maha- 
bhaga vedam chakre chaturvidham \ rig-atharva-yajuh-samnam 
rasln uddhritya vargasah \ chatasrah samkitas chakre mantrair 
manigana iva \ tasam sa chaturah siskyan wpahuya mahamatiii \ 
Ekaikam saihhitam brahman ekaikasmai dadau vibhuh \ Pailaya 
samhitam ddyam bahvrichakhyam uvacha ha \ Yaisampayana- 
sanj'Mya nigad akhyam yajur-ganam \ samndm Jaiminaye prdha 
tathd chhandoga-samhitdm \ Atharvdngiraslm ndma sva-siskdya 
Sumantave. " Suta speaks : ' From the sky of the supreme 
Brahma's heart, when he was plunged in meditation, there issued 
a sound, which is perceived by the devout when they close their 
organs of sense. By adoring this sound, devotees destroy the 
soul's threefold taint, extrinsic, inherent, and superhuman," and 
become exempt from future birth. From this sound sprang the 
triple omkdra, self-resplendent, unperceived in its production, 
the emblem of the divine Brahma, the supreme spirit. He (the 
supreme spirit) hears this sound (sphota), though his ears be 
closed and his senses inactive, — (this sphota or omkdra ?) through 
which speech is revealed, and of which a manifestation is made 
in the firmament of the soul- 18 This [omkdrd\ is the sensible 



17 Dravya-hriya-lcaralca, which the scholiast interprets as answering to adhibhuta, 
adhyatma, and adhidaiva. See the explanation of these terms in "Wilson's Sankhya- 
karika, pp. 2 and 9. 

18 I quote the scholiast's explanation of this ohscure verse : — Ko 'situ paramatma 
tarn aha ' srinoti ' iti \ imam sphotam avyalctam omkaram | nanu jiva evo torn 
srinotu \ na ity aha \ supta-srotre karna-pidhanadina avriltike 'pi srotre sati \ 
jivastu karanadhmatvad na tada srota \ tadupalabdhistu tasya paramatma-dvarika 
eva iti bhavah | Isvarastu naivam | yatah sunya-drih sunye 'pi indriya-varge drik 
jnartam yasya | tatha hi suplo yada sabdam srutva prabuddhyate na tadajivah srota 

finendriyalvat \ ato yas tada sabdam srutva jwam prabodhayati sa yatha paramatma 



26 



OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 



exponent of Brahma, the self-sustained, the supreme spirit ; 
and it is the eternal seed of the Vedas, including all the 
Mantras and Upanishads. In this \ofh,ka/roi\ there were, o 
descendant of Bhrigu, three letters, A and the rest, by which 
the three conditions, viz. the [three] qualities, the [three] 
names, the [three] objects, the [three] states 19 are maintained. 
From these three letters the divine and unborn being created the 
various letters of the alphabet, distinguished as inner (y, r, I, v), 
ushmas {s, sh, s, K), vowels, long and short, and consonants. 
With this [alphabet] the omnipresent Being, desiring to reveal 
the functions of the four classes of priests, [created] from his 
four mouths the four Vedas with the three sacred syllables 
{vyahritis) and the omkara. These he taught to his sons, 
the brahmarshis, skilled in sacred lore ; and these teachers 
of duty, in turn declared them to their sons. The Vedas were 
thus received by each succeeding generation of devout pupils 
throughout the four yugas, from their predecessors, and were 
divided by great sages at the beginning of the Dvapara. 20 The 
Brahmarshis, impelled by Achyuta, who resided in their hearts, 
divided the Vedas, because they perceived that men had declined 
in age, in virtue, and in understanding. In this Manvantara 
also, 21 the divine and omnipresent Being, the author of the 

eva tadvat ho 'sav omkSras tarn visinashti sardhena yena vag brihatl ryajyate yasya 
cha hridayakase atmanah sakasad vyaktir abhivyaktih. The word sphota will be 
explained below, in Section VII. 

19 These the scholiast explains thus : — Gunah sattvadayah \ namani rig-yajuh- 
samani \ artKa bhur-bhuvah-svar-lokah \ vrittayo jagrad-adyah. 

20 Dvaparadau can only mean the " beginning of the Dvapara ;" but the scholiast 
undertakes by the following process of reasoning to show that it means the end of 
that yuga. Dvaparadau dvaparam adir yasya iad-antyamsa-laxanasya Tmlasya I tas- 
min dvaparante veda-vibliaga-prasiddheh Santanu-samakala- Vyasavatara-prasiddhes- 
cha | vyasta vibhaktah. "Dvaparadau means the period of which the dvapara was 
the beginning, i.e. the time distinguished as the concluding portion of that yuga ; 
since it is notorious that the Vedas were divided at the end of the Dvapara, and that 
the incarnation of Vyasa was contemporaneous with S'antanu. Vyastah=vibhaktah, 
divided." 

21 From this it appears that hitherto the account had not referred to the present 
Manvantara. The scholiast remarks : — Evam samanyato veda-vibliaga-kramam 
uMva vaivasvata-manvantare viseshalo nirupayilum aha. " Having thus [in the pre- 



sect, iv.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 27 

universe, being supplicated by Brahmes'a and the other guar- 
dians of the world, to maintain righteousness, became partially 
incarnate as the son of Parasara and SatyavatI, and divided the 
Veda into four parts. Selecting aggregates of Rik, Atharva, 
Yajush, and Sama verses, and arranging them in sections 
(varpas), he formed four sanhitas (collections) of the hymns, as 
gems [of the same description are gathered together in separate 
heaps]. Having summoned four disciples, the sage gave to 
each of them one of these sanhitas. To Paila he declared the 
first sanhita, called that of the Bahvrichas ; to Vaisampayana the 
assemblage of Yajush verses, called Nigada; to Jaimini the 
Ohhandoga collection of Sama verses ; and to his pupil, Sumantu, 
the Atharvangirasi." 

The Bhagavata Purana, however, is not consistent in the 
account which it gives of the division of the Vedas. In a pas- 
sage already quoted in the First Part of this work, p. 48, it 
speaks of that division as having been the work of the monarch 
Pururavas, and as having taken place in the beginning of the 
Treta age. From the importance of this text I will extract it 
here again at greater length. 

The celestial nymph Urvasi, the Purana tells us, had been 
doomed, in consequence of a curse, to take up her abode upon 
earth. She there fell in love with King Pururavas, the report 
of whose manly beauty had touched her heart, even before she 
had been banished from paradise. After spending many happy 
days in the society of her lover, she forsook him in consequence 
of his having infringed one of the conditions of their cohabita- 
tion, and Pururavas was in consequence rendered very miser- 
able. He at length, however, obtained a renewal of their in- 
tercourse, and she finally recommended him to worship the 
Gandharvas, who would then re-unite her to him indissolubly. 

The Purana then proceeds (ix. 14, 43 ff.) : — Tasya samstu- 

ceding verses] generally described the manner in which the Vedas were divided, [the 
author] now states [as follows], with the view of determining particularly [what was 
done] in the Vaivasvata Manvantara." 



28 OPINIONS REGAKDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

vatas tushtd agnisthdllm dadur nripa \ Urvasim manyamdnas 
tarn so 'budkyata charan vane || Sthdllm nyasya vane galvd grihdn 
ddhydyato nisi || Tretdydm sampravrittaydm manasi trayy avart- 
tata || Sthdll-sthdnam gato 'sbattham saml-garbham vilaxya sah \ 
Tena doe aranl kritva Urvasl-loka-kamyaya || Urvasim mantrato 
dhydyann adhardranim uttardm \ Atmdnam ubhayor madhye yat 
tat prajananam prabkuh \ Tasya nirmat/ianaj jato jatavedd 
vibhavasuh \ Trayy a cha vidyayd rajM putratve kalpitas trivrit \ 
Tenayajata yajnesam bhagavantam adhoxajam \ Urvasl-lokam 
anvichhan sarva-devamayam Harim \ Eka eva pura vedah prana- 
vah sarva-vangmayah \ Devo ndrdyano ndnya eko 'gnir varna 
eva cha \ Pururavasa evdslt trayi tretd-mukke nripa \ Agnind 
prajayd rdjd lokam gdndharvam eyivan. " The Gandharvas, 
gratified by his praises, gave him a platter containing fire. This 
he [at first] surposed to be Urvas'l, but became aware [of his 
mistake], as he wandered in the wood. Having placed the 
platter in the forest, Pururavas went home; and as he was 
meditating in the night, after the Treta age had commenced, 
the triple Veda appeared before his mind. 22 Eeturning to the 
spot where he had placed the platter, he beheld an asvattha tree 
springing out of a saml tree, and formed from it two pieces of 
wood. Longing to attain the world where UrvasI dwelt, he 
imagined to himself, according to the sacred text, UrvasI as the 
lower and himself as the upper piece of wood, and their offspring 
as lying between the two. Fire was generated from the friction, 
and, according to the threefold science [Veda], was under its 
triple form, recognised by the king as his son. With this seek- 
ing to attain the heaven of Uryasi, he worshipped the divine 
Hari, the lord of sacrifice, Adhoxaja, formed of the substance of 
all the gods. There was formerly only one Veda, the sacred 
monosyllable om, the essence of all speech; only one god, 
Narayana ; only one Agni, and [one] caste. From Pururavas 
came the triple Veda in the beginning of the Treta age. 

M Karim-bodhakam vedatrayam pradurabhut. " The three Vedas, ordainers of 
rites, were manifested to him," as the scholiast explains. 



sect, iv.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 29 

Through Agni, his son, the king attained the heaven of the 
Gandharvas."' 3 

On the close of this passage the commentator remarks :—Nanv 
anadir veda-traya-bodhito brahmanadmam Indrddyaneka-deva- 
yajanena svarga-prdpti-hetuli karma-mar g all katham sadir iva var- 
nyate \ Tatrdha ' eka eva' iti dvabhydm \ Purd krita-yuge sarva- 
vdng-mayali sarvdsdm vdchdm vlja-bhutahpranava eka eva vedaJi \ 
Devascka Narayana eka eva \ Agnischa eka eva laukikah \ Var- 
nascha eka eva hamso nama \ Vedatrayl tu Pururavasdh sakasad 
asit . . . Ayam bhavah \ krita-yuge sattva-pradhanah prayasah 
same 'pi dhydnanishthali \ rajali-pradhane tu Treta-yuge vedddi- 
vibhagena karmamdrgah prakato babhuva ityarthah. " How is 
it that the eternal method of works, which is pointed out by the 
three Vedas, and through which Brahmans and others, by wor- 
shipping Indra and many other gods, attain to paradise, is spoken 
of [in the preceding verses] as if it had a beginning in time ? 
He [the author of the Purana] answers this in these two verses. 
Formerly, i.e. in the Krita age, there was only one Veda, the 
sacred monosyllable om, the essence of all words, i.e. that which 
is the seed of all words; and there was only one god, Nara- 
yana ; only one fire, that for common uses ; and only one caste, 
the Hansa. But the triple Veda came from Pururavas. . . . The 
meaning is this : in the Krita age the quality of goodness pre- 
dominated in men, who were almost all absorbed in meditation. 
But in the Treta age, when passion (rajas) prevailed, the method 
of works was manifested by the division of the Vedas." 24 

This last quoted passage of the Bhagavata gives, as I have inti- 

23 This story is also told in a prose passage in the Vish. Pur. iv. 6 (Wilson, 
p. 394). It is there stated that Pururavas divided fire, which was originally one, in 
a threefold manner. Eho 'gnir adav abhavacl Ailena tu, atra manvantare traita pra- 
varttita. No mention, however, is there made of his having divided the Vedas, or 
partitioned society into castes. 

84 This legend is borrowed from the S'atapatha Brahmana, xi. 5, 1, 1 ff. (p. 855- 
858 Weber's ed.), where the motive for its introduction is to describe the process by 
which fire was generated by Pururavas in obedience to the command of the Gan- 
dharvas, as the means of his admission into their paradise. See Professor Mullens 
translation of this story in the Oxford Essays for 1856, pp. 62, 63. The legend is 
founded on the 9oth hymn of the tenth book of the Eig-veda. 



30 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

mated, a different account of the division of the Vedas from that 
contained in the text previously adduced from the same work, 
and in the citations from the Vishnu and Vayu Puranas. The 
one set of passages speak of the Veda as having been divided by 
Vyasa into four parts in the Dvapara age ; while the text last 
cited speaks of the triple Veda as having originated with Puru- 
ravas in the Treta age; and evidently belonged to a different 
tradition from the former three. The legend which speaks of three 
Vedas is likely to be more ancient than that which speaks of 
four, as it was not till a comparatively late date that the Atharva 
asserted its right to be ranked with the three others as a fourth 
Veda. This earlier tradition, however, appears to have had its 
origin partly in etymological considerations. The word Treta, 
though designating the second Yuga, means a triad, and seems 
to have been suggested to the writer's mind by the triple fire 
mentioned in the legend. 

Mahabharata. — The following passage from the Mahabharata, 
Santiparva (verses 13,088 ff.), agrees partially in tenor with the 
second passage from the Bhagavata, but is silent regarding 
Pururavas : — Idam kritayugam nama kalah sreshthah pravartti- 
tah | Ahimsya yajnapasavo yuge 'smin na tad anyatha || Chatush- 
pat sakalo dharmo bhavishyaty atra vai surah \ Tatas Treta 
yugam nama trayi yatra bhavishyati || Proxita yajnapasavo 
badham prapsyanti vai makke is \ Yatra padas chaturtho vai dhar- 
masya na bhavishyati \\ Tato vai dvaparam nama misrah kalo 
bhavishyati. "This present Krita age is the best of all the 
yugas ; in it it is unlawful to slay any animals for sacrifice ; in 
this age righteousness shall consist of all its four portions and be 
entire. Then shall follow the Treta age, in which the triple 

35 Manu (i. 86, 86) differs from this passage of the Mahabharata in making the 
Dvapara the age of sacrifice ; — Anye kritayuge dharmas Tretayam Dvapare pare \ 
Anye lealiyuge nrlnam yuga-hrasanurupatah | Tapah partm Kritayuge Tretayam 
jnanam uchyate \ Dvapare yajnam evahur danam eUaih halau yuge. " Different duties 
are practised by men in the Krita age, and different duties in the Treta, Dvapara, 
and Kali ages, in proportion to the decline in those yugas. Devotion is said to be 
supreme in the Krita, knowledge in the Treta, sacrifice in the Dvapara, and liberality 
alone in the Kali." 



sect, v.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHOKS. 31 

Veda shall arise, and animals fit for sacrifice shall be slaughtered 
as oblations. In that age the fourth part of righteousness 6hall 
be wanting. Next shall succeed the Dvapara, a mixed period." 
The M. Bh. (Santip. 13,475) relates that two Asuras, who 
beheld Brahma creating the Vedas, suddenly snatched them up 
and ran off. Brahma laments their loss, exclaiming, Vedo me 
paramam chaxur vedo me paramam balam | . . . Vedan rite hi 
kirn kuryam lokanam srishtim uttamdm. "The Veda is my 
principal eye ; the Veda is my principal strength. . . . What 
shall I do without the Vedas, the most excellent creation in the 
universe?" They were, however, recovered and restored to 
Brahma (v. 13,506 ff.) 

Vishnu-purdna. — The following verse, Vish. Pur. iii. 2, 12 
(Wilson, p. 269), refers to the periodical disappearance of the 
Yeda,s:—CAaturyugdnte veddndm jdyate kaliviplavah \ pravart- 
tayanti tan etya bhuvi saptarshayo divah. "At the end of the 
four ages (yugas) the disappearance of the Vedas, incident to the 
kali, takes place. The seven rishis come from heaven to earth, 
and again give them currency." (Compare M. Bh. Santip. 
7,660, which will be quoted further on.) 



Seci. V. — Accounts in the Vishnu and Vayu Pv/ranas of the schisms 
letiveen the adherents of the Yajw-veda, Vaisampayana and Yajna- 
valkya ; hostility of the Atharvanas towards the other Vedas ; and of 
the Chhandogas towards the Rig-veda. 

The Vishnu Purana, iii. 5, 2 ff. (Wilson, p. 279 ff.), gives the 
following legend regarding the way in which the Yajur-veda 
came to be divided into two schools, the black and the white : — 
Yajriamlkyas tu tasyabhud Brahmaratasuto dvija \ Sis/tyah 
parama-dharmajno guru-vritti-parak sada \ Rishir yo 'dya 
mahamerum samaje nagamishyati \ Tasya vai sapta-ratrantu 
brahma-hatya bhavishyati \ Purvam eea muni-ganaih samayo 
'bkut krito dvija \ Vaisampayana ekas tu tarn vyatikrantavams 
tada | Svasriyam balakam so 'tha pads, sprishtam aghatayat | 



32 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

Sishyan aha sa bholi sishya brahma-hatyapaham, vratam \ Cha- 
radhvam matkrite sarve na vicharyyam idam tatha | Athdha 
YajHavalkyas tan him ebhir bhagavan dvijaili \ Kle'sitair alpa- 
tejobhir charishye 'ham idam vratam \ Tatah kruddho guruh 
praha Ydjnavalkyam mahdmatih \ Muchyatdm yat tvaya 'dhitam 
matto vipravamanyaha | Mstejaso vadasy etan yas tvam brah- 
mana-pungavdn \ Tena sishyena nartho 'sti mamajna— bhang a- 
karina \ Yagiiavalkyas tatah praha bhaktau tat te mayoditam \ 
Mamapy alam tvaya 'dhitam yad maya tad idam dvija \ Ity 
uktva rudhiraktani sarupani yajumshi sah \ Chhardayitva dadau 
tasmai yayau cha svechhaya munih \ yajumshy atha visrishtani 
yajnavalkyena vai dvija \ Jagnhus tittiribhutva Taittiriyas tu te 
tatah | Brahma-hatya-vratam chlrnam guruna choditais tu yaih \ 
Charakadhvaryavai. te tu charanad munisattamah \ Yajnaval- 
kyo 'tha Maitreya prdnayama-parayanah \ tushtava prayatah 
suryam yajumshy abhilashams tatah | . . . Ity evamadibhistena 
stuyamanali stavaih raviJi \ vaji-rupa-dharah praha vriyatam iti 
vanchhitam \ Yajnavalkyas tada praha pranipatya divakaram \ 
yajumshi tani me dehi yani santi na me gurau | Evam ukto 
dadau, tasmai yajumshi bhagavan ravih \ ayatayama-sanjnani 
yani vetti na tadguruh \ Yajumshi yair adMtani tani viprair 
dvijottama \ vajinas te samdkhydtah suryo 'svah so 'bhavad yatah. 
" Yajnavalkya, son of Brahmarati, was his [Vais'ampayana's] 
disciple, eminently versed in duty, and obedient to his teacher. 
An agreement had formerly been made by the Munis that any 
one of their number who should fail to attend at an assembly 
on Mount Meru on a certain day should incur the guilt of Brah- 
manicide during [within?] a period of seven nights. Vais'am- 
payana was the only person who infringed this agreement, and 
he in consequence occasioned the death of his sister's child by 
touching it with his foot. He then desired all his disciples to 
perform in his behalf an expiation which should take away his 
guilt, and forbade any hesitation. Yajnavalkya then said to him, 
' Reverend sir, what is the necessity for these faint and feeble 
Brahmins ? / will perform the expiation.' The wise teacher, 



sect, v.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 33 

incensed, replied to Yajnavalkya, ' Contemner of Brahmans, give 
up all that thou hast learnt from me ; I have no need of a dis- 
obedient disciple, who, like thee, stigmatizes these eminent Brah- 
mans as feeble.' Yajnavalkya rejoined, ' It was from devotion 
[to thee] that I said what I did ; but I, too, have done with 
thee : here is all that I have learnt from thee.' Having spoken, 
he vomited forth the identical Yajush texts tainted with blood, 
and giving them to his master, he departed at his will. [The 
other pupils] having then become transformed into partridges 
(tittiri), picked up the Yajush texts, and were thence called 
Taittirlyas. And those who had by their teacher's command 
performed the expiation, were from this performance (charana) 
called Oharakadhvaryus. Yajnavalkya then, who was habituated 
to the exercise of suppressing his breath, devoutly hymned the 
sun, desiring to obtain Yajush texts ... [I pass over the hymn.] 
Thus celebrated with these and other praises, the sun assumed 
the form of a horse, and said, 'Ask whatever boon thou desirest.' 
Yajnavalkya then, prostrating himself before the lord of day, 
replied, 'Give me such Yajush texts as my teacher does not 
possess.' Thus supplicated, the sun gave him the Yajush texts 
called Ayatayama, which were not known to his master. Those 
by whom these texts were studied were called Vajins, because 
the sun (when he gave them) assumed the shape of a horse 
(vdji)." 

I quote also the parallel text from the Vayu Purana, as it 
exhibits some slight variations from the preceding, (Vayu Pur. 
Aufr. Cat. p. 55) : — Karyam asld rishinaficka kiUchid brah- 
mana-sattamdh \ Meru-prishtham samdsddya tais tadd 'stviti 
mantritam \ Yo no 'tra sapta-rdtrena ndgachhed dvija-sattamdh \ 
sa kurydd brahma-badhydin vai samayo nah praklrttitah \ Tatas 
te sagandh sarve Vaisampayana-varjitah \ Prayayuli saptara- 
trena yatra sandhill krito 'bhavat \ Brahmananantu vachanad 
brahma-badhyafii cfiakara soli \ Sishyan atha mmaniya sa Vais- 
ampayano 'bravlt \ Brahma-badhydih charadhoalii vai matkrite 
dvijak-sattamah \ sarve yuyafh samdgamya bruta me taddkitaM 

3 



34 



OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., L< :HAP - '• 



vachali \ Yajnavalkya uvacha \ Aham eva charishyami tishthantu 
munayas to ime \ balaRchotthdpayishyami tapasd svena bhavitah \ 
Evam uktas tatah kruddho Ydj'Havalkyam athabravlt \ uvacha 
yat tvayd 'dhltam sarvam pratyarpayasva me \ Evam uktah 
sarupdni yajumshi pradadau gurok \ rudhirena tatha 'ktani 
chharditvd brahma-vittamah \ Tatah sa dhyanam asthaya suryam 
aradhayad dvijak \ surya brahma yad uchchhinnam Mam gated, 
pratitishthati \ Tato yard gatany urddhaih yajumshy aditya-man- 
dalam \ Tani tasmai dadau tushtak suryo vai Brahmarataye \ 
Asoarupascha marttando Yajftavalkyaya dhlmate \ Yajumshy adh- 
lyate ydni brahmand yena kenachit \ asvarupani dattani tatas 
te Yajino 'bhavan \ brahma-hatya tu yais chlrna charanat cha- 
rakah smritah \ Vaisampayana-sishyas te charakah samuddh- 
ritdh. " The rishis having a certain occasion, met on the summit 
of Mount Meru, when, after consultation, they resolved and 
agreed together that any one of their number who should fail to 
attend there for seven nights should be involved in the guilt of 
brahmanicide. They all in consequence resorted to the appointed 
place for seven nights along with their attendants. Vais'ampa- 
yana alone was absent, and he, according to the word of the 
Brahmans, committed brahmanicide. He then assembled his 
disciples, and desired them to perform, on his behalf, an expia- 
tion for his offence, and to meet and tell him what was salutary 
for the purpose. Yajnavalkya then said, ' I myself will perform 
the penance ; let all these munis refrain : inspired by my own 
devotion, I shall raise up strength.' Incensed at this speech of 
Yajnavalkya [Vais'ampayana] said to him, ' Restore all that thou 
hast learned.' Thus addressed, the sage, deeply versed in sacred 
lore, vomited forth the identical Yajush texts stained with blood, 
and delivered them to his teacher. Plunged in meditation, the 
Brahman then adored the sun, saying, ' Sun, every sacred text 
which disappears [from the earth] goes to the sky, and there 
abides.' The sun, gratified, and [appearing] in the form of a 
horse, bestowed on Yajnavalkya, son of Brahmarata, all the 
Yajush texts which had ascended to the solar region. All the 



sect, v.] OP THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 35 

Yajush texts which are [ ? ] studied by any priest, were given in 
the form of horses, [?] and in consequence these priests became 
Vajins. And the disciples of Vais'ampayana, by whom the expi- 
atory rite was accomplished, were called Charakas, from its 
accomplishment {char ana) . " 26 

It is sufficiently evident from the preceding legend that the 
adherents of the two different divisions of the Yajurveda (the 
Taittiriya or black, and the Vajasaneyi or white), must in ancient 
times have regarded each other with feelings of the greatest 
hostility — feelings akin to those with which the followers of the 
rival deities, Vishnu and Siva, look upon each other in modern 
days. On this subject I quote an extract from Professor Weber's 
" History of Indian Literature." 

P. 84. — " Whilst the theologians of the Rik are called Bah- 
vrichas, and those of the Saman Ohhandogas, the old name for 
the divines of the Yajush is Adhvaryu ; and these old appella- 
tions are to be found in the Sanhita of the Black Yajush (the 
Taittiriya), and in the Brahmana of the White Yajush (the data- 
path a Brahmana). The latter work applies the term Adhvaryus 
to its own adherents, whilst their opponents are denominated 
Charakadhvaryus, and are the objects of censure. This hostility 
is also exhibited in a passage of the Sanhita of the White Yajush, 
where the Oharakacharya, as one of the human sacrifices to be 
offered at the Purushamedha, is devoted to Dushkrita or Sin." 27 

26 In a note to p. 461 of his Translation of the Vishnu Purana, Professor Wilson 
mentions the following legend illustrative of the effects of this schism. " The Vayu 
and Matsya relate, rather obscurely, a dispute between Janamejaya and Vais'ampa- 
yana, in consequence of the former's patronage of the Brahmans of the Vajasaneyi 
branch of the Yajur-veda, in opposition to the latter, who was the author of the 
Black or original Vajush. Janamejaya twice performed the As'vamedha according 
to the Vajasaveyi ritual, and established the Trisarvl, or use of certain texts by 
As'maka and others, by the Brahmans of Anga, and by those of the middle country. 
He perished, however, in consequence, being cursed by Vais'ampayana. Before their 
disagreement, Vais'ampayana related the Mahabharata to Janamejaya." 

27 Vajasaneyi Sanhita xxx. 18 (p. 846 of Weber's ed.) : — Dushjcritaya charaka- 
eharyyam \ {charahanaih gurum — Scholiast). Prof. Miiller also says (Anc. Sans. Lit. 
p. 350), " This name Charaka is used in one of the Khilas" (the passage just quoted) 
" of the Vajasaneyi Sanhita as a term of reproach. In the 30th Adhyaya a list of 
people is given who are to be sacrificed at the Purushamedha, and among them we 



36 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. .- 

Ill his Indische Studien (iii. 454) Prof. Weber specifies the fol- 
lowing passages in the Satapatha Brahmana as those in which 
the Charakas, or Charakadhvaryus are censured, viz., iii. 8, 2, 24 ; 
iv. 1, 2, 19 ; iv. 2, 3, 15 ; iv. 2, 4, 1 ; vi. 2, 2, 1, 10 ; tux. 1, 3, 7 ; 
viii. 7, 1, 14, 24. Of these I quote one specimen (iv. 1, 2, 19): 
— Ta u ha Charaka nanaiva mantrabhyam juhvati pranodanau 
kurma iti vadantdh \ Tad u tatha na kuryat \ mohayanti ha te 
yajamanasya pranodanav apldva enam tushnlmjuhuyat. " These 
the Charakas offer respectively with two mantras, saying thus : 
' These are his two breathings,' and ' we thus make these 
two breathings endowed with their respective powers.' But let 
no one adopt this procedure, for they confound the breathings 
of the worshipper. Wherefore let this libation be offered in 
silence." 28 

But these sectarian jealousies were not confined to the dif- 
ferent schools of the Yajur-veda ; the adherents of the Atharva- 
veda seem ,to have evinced a similar spirit of hostility towards 
the followers of the other Vedas. On this subject Prof. Weber 
remarks as follows in his Indische Studien, i. 296. " A good 
deal of animosity is generally displayed in most of the writings 
connected with the Atharvan towards the other three Vedas ; but 
the strongest expression is given to this feeling in the first of 
the Atharva Parisishtas, chapter cxii." 

He then proceeds to quote the following passage from that 
work and chapter : — Bahvricho hanti vai rashtram adhvaryur 
nasayet sutan \ Chhandogo dhanam nasayet tasmad Atharvano 
guruh \ Ajnanad va pramadad va yasya syad bahvricho guruh \ 
desa-rashtra-puramatya-nasas tasya na sainsayah \ yadi va 

find the Charakacharya as the proper victim to be offered to Dushkrita or Sin. This 
passage, together with similar hostile expressions in the S'atapatha Brahmana, were 
evidently dictated by a feeling of animosity against the ancient schools of the Adhvar- 
yus, whose sacred texts we possess in the Taittiriya-veda, and from whom Yajna- 
valkya seceded in order to become himself the founder of the new Charanas of the 
Vajasaneyins." 

28 Though aided by a learned friend in rendering this passage, I am not certain of 
the perfect exactness of the translation. But there is no doubt whatever that the 
tendency of the text is hostile to the rival school of the Charakas. 



sect, v.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 37 

'dhvaryamm raja niyunakti purohitam \ sastrena badhyate 
xipram parixindrtha-vahanaJi \yathaiva pangur adhvanam apaxl 
chanda-bhojanam \ eoam chhandoga-guruna raja middhiih na 
gachhati \ purodha jalado yasya maudo va syat katha&chana \ 
abdad dasabhyo masebhyo rashtra-bhramsam. sa gachhati. " A 
Bahvricha (Kig-veda priest) will destroy a kingdom ; an Adlivaryu 
(Yajur-veda priest) will destroy offspring; and a Chhandoga 
(Sama-veda priest) will destroy wealth; — hence an Atharvana 
priest is the [proper] spiritual adviser. Destruction of country, 
kingdom, cities, and ministers is certainly incurred by the [king] 
who, through ignorance or folly, takes a Bahvricha priest for 
his guide. Or if a king appoints an Adhvaryu priest to be his 
domestic chaplain, he loses his wealth and his chariots, and is 
speedily slain by the sword. As a lame man [makes no pro- 
gress] on a road, and a creature which is not a bird [cannot] eat 
eggs [?], so no king prospers who has a Chhandoga for his teacher. 
He who has a Jalada or a Mauda for his priest, loses his kingdom 
after a year or ten months." 

" Thus," continues Prof. "Weber, " the author of the Pari- 
s'ishta attacks certain sakhas of the Atharva-veda itself, for such 
are the Jaladas and the Maudas, and admits only a Bhargava, a 
Paippalada, or a Saunaka to be a properly qualified teacher. 
He further declares that the Atharva-veda is intended only for 
the highest order of priest, the brahman, not for the three other 
inferior sorts." 

The following passage is then quoted : — Atharva srijate ghoram 
adbhutam samayet tatha \ atharoa raxate yajnam yajnasya patir 
Angirah \ Dwyantarixa-bhaumanam utpatanam anekadha \ 
samayita brahma-vedajnas tasmad daxinato Bhriguh \ Brahma 
samayed nadhvaryur na chhandogo na bahvrichah \ raxamsi 
raxati brahma brahma tasmad atharva-vit. " The Atharva 
priest creates horrors, and he also allays alarming occurrences ; 
he protects the sacrifice, of which Angiras is the lord. He who 
is skilled in the Brahma-veda (the Atharva) can allay manifold 
portents, celestial, atmospheric, and terrestrial, wherefore the 



38 OPINIONS KEGAKDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

Bhrigu [is to be placed] on the right hand. It is the brahman, 
and not the adhvaryu, the chhandoga, or the bahvricha, who can 
allay [portents] ; the brahman wards off [ 1 ] raxases, wherefore 
the brahman is he who knows the Atharva." 

I subjoin another extract from Prof. Weber's Indische Studien, 
i. 63 ff., partly to complete what was said on the relation of the 
Sama-veda to the Eig-veda in Part Second of this work, pp. 
202, 203, and partly to illustrate the mutual hostility of the 
different schools. " To understand the relation of the Sama- 
veda to the Rig-veda, we have only to form to ourselves a clear 
and distinct idea of the manner in which these hymns in general 
arose, how they were then carried to a distance by those tribes 
which emigrated onward, and how they were by them regarded 
as sacred, whilst in their original home, they were either — as 
living in the immediate consciousness of the people — subjected 
to modifications corresponding to the lapse of time, or made way 
for new hymns by which they were pushed aside, and so became 
forgotten. It is a foreign country which first surrounds familiar 
things with a sacred charm ; emigrants continue to occupy their 
ancient mental position, preserving what is old with painful 
exactness, while at home life opens out for itself new paths. 
New emigrants follow those who had first left their home, and 
unite with those who are already settlers in a new country. 
And now the old and the new hymns and usages are fused into 
one mass, and are faithfully, but uncritically, learned and imbibed 
by travelling pupils from different masters (several stories in the 
Vrihad Aranyaka are especially instructive on this point, see 
Ind. Stud. p. 83), so that a varied intermixture arises. Others, 
again, more learned, then strive to introduce arrangement, to 
bring together what is homogeneous, to separate what is dis- 
tinct ; and in this way theological intolerance springs up ; with- 
out which the rigid formation of a text or a canon is impossible. 
The influence of courts on this process is not to be overlooked ; 
as, for example, in the case of Janaka, King of Videha, who in 
Yajnavalkya had found his Homer. Anything approaching to a 



sect, vi.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 39 

clear insight into the reciprocal relations of the different schools 
will in vain be sought either from the Puranas or the Charana- 
vyuha, and can only be attained by comparing the teachers 
named in the different Brahmanas and Sutras, partly with each 
other and partly with the text of Panini and the ganapatha and 
commentary connected therewith (for the correction of which a 
thorough examination of Patanjali would offer the only sufficient 
guarantee). For the rest, the relation between the S. V. and 
the R. V. is in a certain degree analogous to that between the 
White and the Black Yajush ; and, as in the Brahmana of the 
former (the Satapatha Br.) we often find those teachers who are 
the representatives of the latter, mentioned with contempt, it 
cannot surprise us, if in the Brahmana of the Sama-veda, the 
Paingins and Kaushxtakins are similarly treated." 

It will have become sufficiently manifest to the reader of the 
preceding passages which I have extracted from the Puranas 
concerning the division and different Sakhas of the Vedas, that 
the traditions which they embody contain very little real infor- 
mation in regard to the composition of the hymns, or the man- 
ner in which they were preserved, collected, or arranged. In 
fact, I have not adduced these passages for the purpose of eluci- 
dating those points, but to show the legendary character of the 
narratives, and their discrepancies in matters of detail. For an 
account of the Sakhas of the Vedas, the ancient schools of the 
Brahmans, and other matters of a similar nature, I must refer 
to the excellent work of Prof. Miiller, the " History of Ancient 
Sanskrit Literature," pp. 119-132 and 364-388 and elsewhere. 



Sect. VI. — Reasonings of the Commentators on the Vedas, in support 
of the authority of the Vedas. 

I proceed now to adduce some extracts from the works of the 
more systematic authors who have treated of the origin and 
authority of the Vedas, I mean the commentators on these books 
themselves, and the authors and expositors of the aphorisms of 



40 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

several of the schools of Hindu philosophy. Whatever we may- 
think of the premises from -which these writers set out, or of the 
conclusions at which they arrive, we cannot fail to be struck with 
the contrast which their speculations exhibit to the loose and 
mystical ideas of the Puranas and Upanishads, or to admire the 
acuteness of their reasoning, and the logical precision with which 
their arguments are presented. 

I. — The first passage which I shall adduce is from Sayana's 
introduction to his commentary on the Eig-veda, the Vedartha- 
prakasa, pp. 3 ff. (Sayana, as we have seen in Part Second, 
p. 172, lived in the 14th century, a.d.) Nanu Veda eva tdvad 
nasti | kutas tadavdntara-visesha rigvedah \ Tathd hi \ ko 'yam 
vedo ndma \ na hi tatra laxanam pramanam vd 'sti \ nacha tad- 
ubhaya-vyatirekena hi-fi, chid vastu prasidhyati \ Laxana-pramdnd- 
bhydm hi vastu-siddhir iti nydyavidam matam \ Pratyaxdnuman- 
dgameshu pramana^visesheshu antimo Veda iti tallaxanam iti 
chet | na \ Manvddi-smritishu ativyapteh \ Samaya-balena sam- 
yak paroxanubhava-sadhanam ity etasya agama-laxanasya tas- 
vapi sadbhdvat \ apaurusheyatve sati iti viseshanad adosha iti 
chet | na \ Vedasyapi paramesvara-nirmitatvena paurusheyatvat \ 
Sarira-dhari-jwa-nirmitatvdbhavdd apaurusheyatvam iti chet \ 
[na?~\ | ' Sahasra-sirsha purusha' ityddi-srutibhir isvarasyapi 
sariritvdt \ Karma-phala-rilpa-sarira-dhdri-jiva-nirmitatvdbhava- 
mdtrena apaurusheyatvam vivaxitam iti chet \ na \ Jwa-viseshair 
Agni- Vayv-Adityair vedanam utpdditatvdt \ ' Eigveda evagner 
ajayata Yajurvedo vdyoh Samaveda adityad' iti sruter isvara- 
sya agnyadi-prerakatvena nirmatritvam drashtavyam \ mantra- 
brahmanatmakah sabda-rasir veda iti chet \ na \ Idriso mantrah \ 
Idrisam brahmanam ity anayor adyapi anirnltatvdt \ Tasmad 
nasti kinchid vedasya laxanam \ Napi tat-sadbhwce pramanam 
pasyamah \ ' Rigvedam bhagavo 'dhyemi Yajurvedam Samave- 
dam Atharvanam chaturlham' ityddi vdhy am pramanam iti chet \ 
na | tasyapi vdkyasya veddntaJipdtitvena atmasrayatva-prasan- 
gdt | Na khalu nipuno 'pi svaskandham drodhum prabhaved iti \ 
' Veda eva dvijdtinam nihsreyasa-karah parak ' iti ddi smriti- 



sect, vi.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 41 

vdkyaih pramanam iti chet \ na \ tasyapy ukta-'sruti-mulatvena 
nirdkritatvdt \ pratyaxddikam sankitum apy ayogyam \ Veda- 
vishayd loka-prasiddhih sdrvajanlnd 'pi nllam nabha ityadivad 
bhrdntd \ Tasmal laxana-pramdna-rahitasya vedasya sadbhdvo na 
anglkarttuWi salty ate iti purvapaxah \ 

Atra uchyate \ mantra-brahmanatmakaim tacad adushtam 
laxanam \ ata eva Apastambo yajna-paribhashayam evaha 
' mantra-brahmanayor veda-namadheyam' iti \ tayostu rupam 
uparishthad nirneshyate \ apaurusheya-vakyatvam iti idam apt 
yadrisam asmabhir vivaxitaWi tadrisam uttaratra spashtl-bkavi- 
shyati \ pramanany api yathoktani sruti-smriti-lokaprasiddhi- 
rupdni veda-sadbhave drashtavyani \ Yatha ghata-patadi-dravy- 
anam sva-prakasatvabhave 'pi suryachandradlnam sva-praka- 
satvam avirudham tatha manushyadlnam smskandkarokasam- 
bhave 'py akunthita-sakter vedasya itara-vastu-pratipadakatva- 
vat sva-pratipadakatvam apy astu \ Ata eva sampradaya-vido 
'kunthitajn saktim vedasya darsayanti ' chodana ni bhutam bka- 
vishyantafa suxmam vyavahitairh, viprakrishtam ity evanjatlyam 
artham saknoty avagamayitum' iti \ Tatha sati veda-mulayah 
smrites tadubhaya-mUlaya loka-prasiddhescha pramanyafh dur- 
varam \ Tasmal laxana-pramana-siddho vedo na kenapi charva- 
kadina 'podhum sakyate iti sthitam || 

JYanv astu noma Vedakhyali kaschit padartkah \ tathapi 
nasau vyakhyanam arhati apramanatvena anupayuktatvat \ Na 
hi Vedah pramanam tallaxanasya tatra duhsampadatvat \ tatha 
hi ' samyag anubhava-sadhanam pramanam ' iti kechil laxanam 
ahuh | apare tu ' anadhigatdrtha-gantri pramanam ' ity dchax- 
ate | na chaitad ubhayam vede sambhavati \ mantra-brdhmandt- 
mako hi vedah \ tatra mantrdh kechid abodhakah \ ' amyak sa ta 
Indra rishtir' ityeko mantrah \ 'Yddrismin dhayi tarn ayasya- 
ydvidad' ity any ah \ ' Srinyeva jarbharl turpharitu' ityaparah \ 
' Apdnta-manyus triphala-prabharmd ' ityddaya uddharyah \ na 
hy etair mantraih kaschid apy artho 'vabudhyate \ eteshv anu- 
bhavo eva yadd ndsti tadd tatsamyaktvam tadlya-sddhanatvancha 
durdpetam \ 'Adhah svid dsid upari svid dsid' iti mantrasya 



42 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

bodhakatve 'pi ' sthdnur m purusho vd' ityddi-vdkya-vat sandig- 
dhdrtha-bodhakatvdd ndstvprdmdnyam | ' Oskadhe trdyasvainam' 
iti mantro darbhavishayah \ ' Svadhite mainam hiihsir' iti xura- 
vishayali \ ' Srinota grdvdna ' iti pdshdna-vishayah \ Eteshv 
acketananaM darbha-xura-paskananafh chetana-vat sambodha- 
nam sruyate \ tato ' dvau ckandramasav' iti mkya-vad viparltar- 
tha-bodhakatvad aprarnanyam \ ' EJca eoa Rudro na dvitlyo 
'vatasthe ' \ ' sahasrani sahasraso ye Rudra adhi bkumyam ' 
ity anayos tu mantrayor ' yavajjivam akam mauni' iti vakyavad 
vyaghata-bodhakatvad aprarnanyam \ 'Apa undantu' iti mantro 
yajamanasyaxaura-kalejalenasirasah kledanam brute \ ' Sub hike 
sira aroha sobhayanti mukham mama' iti mantro vivaha-kale man- 
galacharanartham pushpa-nirmitaya subhikaya varabadhvoh 
sirasy avasthanam brute \ tayoscka mantrayor loka-prasiddhdr- 
thanuvaditvad anadhigatartha-gantritvani nasti \ tasmad man- 
tra-bhdgo na pramanam \ 

Atra uchyate \ Amyagddi-mantranam artho Yaskena niru/cta- 
granthe 'vabodhitah \ tat-parichaya^rahitdndm anavabodko na 
mantrdndm dosham dvahati \ Ata evdtra loka-nyayam uddha- 
ranti ' naisha sthdnor aparddho yad enam andho na pasyati | 
purushdparddho sambhavati' iti \ ' Adhah svid dsid' iti man- 
trascha na sandeha-prabodhanaya pravrittah kimtarhi jagat- 
kdranasya paravastuno 'tigambhiratvarh nischetum eva pravrit- 
tah | tadartham eoa hi gurusdstra-sampraddya-rahitair dur- 
bodhyatoam ' adhah svid ' ity anayd vacho-bkangyd upanyasyati \ 
Sa evdbhiprdya uparitanesha ' ko addhd veda ' ity ddi-mantreshu 
spashtl-kritah \ ' Oshadky ' ddi mantreskv api chetand eva tattad- 
abhimdni-devatds tena tena ndmnd sambodhyante \ tdscha devatd 
bhagavatd Bddardyanena ' abhimdni-vyapadesastu' iti sutre su- 
tritdli | Ekasydpi Rudrasya sva-mahimnd sahasra-murtti-svl- 
kdrdd ndsti parasparam vydghdtah \ Jalddi-dravyena sirah-kle- 
dandder loka-siddhatve 'pi tad-abhimdni-devatdnugrahasya apra- 
siddhatvdt tadvishayatvena ajndtdrtha-jndpakatvam \ tato lax- 
ana-sadbhdvdd asti mantra-bhdgasya pramdnyam. 

" But, some will say, there is no such thing as a Veda ; 



sect, vi.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 43 

how, then, can there be a Rig-veda, forming a particular part of 
it? For what is this Veda? It has no characteristic sign or 
evidence ; and without these two conditions, nothing can be 
proved to exist. For logicians hold that ' a thing is established 
by characteristic signs and by proof.' If you answer that ' of 
the three kinds of proof, perception, inference, and scripture, 
the Veda is the last, and that this is its sign ; ' then the objectors 
rejoin that this is not true, for this sign extends too far, and 
includes also Many, and the other Smritis ; since there exists 
in them also this characteristic of Scripture, viz., that ' in virtue 
of common consent it is a perfect instrument for the discovery 
of what is invisible.' If you proceed, ' the Veda is faultless, in 
consequence of its characteristic that it has no person (purusha) 
for its author ; ' they again reply, ' Not so ; for as the Veda was 
formed by Paramesvara (God), it had a person (purusha) for its 
author.' If you rejoin, ' It had no person (purusha) for its author, 
for it was not made by any embodied living being ; '[they refuse 29 
to admit this] on the ground that, according to such Vedic texts 
as ' Purusha has a thousand heads,' it is clear that Isvara (God) 
also has a body. If you urge that apaurusheyatva (' the having 
had no personal author') means that it was not composed by a 
living being endowed with a body which was the result of works ; 
— the opponent denies this also, and asserts that the Vedas were 
created by particular living beings, — Fire, Air, and the Sun ; for 
from the text ' the Rig-veda sprang from fire, the Yajur-veda from 
air, and the Sama-veda from the sun,' etc., it will be seen that 
Isvara, by inciting fire and the others, was the maker. If you 
next say that the Veda is a collection of words in the form of 
Mantras and Brahmanas, the objectors rejoin, ' Not so, for it has 
never yet been defined that a Mantra is so and so, and a Brah- 
mana so and so.' There exists, therefore, no characteristic mark 



29 I have translated this, as if there had been (which there is not) a negative 
particle na in the text, after the iti ehet, as this seems to me to make the best sense. 
I understand from Prof. Miiller that the negative particle is found in some of 
theMSS. 



44 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

of a Veda. Nor do we see any proof that a Veda exists. If you 
say that the text, ' I peruse, reverend sir, the Rig-veda, the Yajur- 
veda, the Sama-veda, and the Atharva as the fourth,' is a proof, 
the antagonist answers, ' No, for as that text is part of the Veda, 
it is exposed to the objection of depending upon itself; for no 
one, be he ever so clever, can mount upon his own shoulders.' 
If you again urge that such texts of the Smriti as this, ' It is the 
Veda alone which is supreme, and the source of blessedness to 
twice-born men,' are proofs, the objector rejoins, 'Not so; since 
these too must be rejected, as being founded on the same Veda.' 
The evidence of the senses and other ordinary sources of know- 
ledge ought not even to be doubted. And common report in 
reference to the Veda, though universal, is erroneous, like such 
phrases as ' the blue sky,' etc. Wherefore, as the Veda is desti- 
tute of characteristic sign and proof, its existence cannot be 
admitted. Such is the first side of the question. 

" To this we reply : — The definition of the Veda, as a work 
composed of Mantra and Brahmana, is unobjectionable. Hence 
Apastamba says in the Yajnaparibhasha, the name of Mantra 
and Brahmana is Veda. The nature of these two things will be 
settled hereafter. 30 The sense we attach to the expression ' with- 
out any personal author' will also be declared further on. Let 
the proofs which have been specified of the existence of the Veda, 
viz., the Veda (itself), the Smriti, and common notoriety, be 
duly weighed. Although jars, cloth, and other such [dark] objects 
have no inherent property of making themselves visible, it is no 
absurdity to speak of the sun, moon, and other luminous bodies, 
as shining by their own light. Just in the same way (though it is 
impossible for beings like men to mount on their own shoulders) 
let the all-penetrating Veda be held to have the power of proving 

30 See Part Second, p. 172. Madhava Acharya, the author of the Vedartha-pra- 
kas'a on the Taittiriya Sanhita, admits the priority of the Mantras or hymns to the 
Jirahmanas in these words (p. 9) : — Tadyapi maiitra-brahmanatmako Vedas tathapi 
brahmanasya mantra-vyalchyana-rupatvat mantra evadau samamnatah. "Though 
the Veda consists of Mantras and Brahmanas, yet as the Brahmanas are expository 
of the Mantras, the latter were first recorded." 



sect, vi.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 45 

itself as it has of proving other things. 81 Hence traditionists set 
forth this penetrating force of the Veda ; thus, ' the Scripture 
is able to make known the past, the future, the minute, the near, 
the remote.' Such being the case, the authority of the Smriti, 
which is based on the Veda, and of common notoriety, which is 
based on both, is irresistible. Wherefore it stands fast that the 
Veda, which is established by characteristic sign, and by proof, 
cannot be refuted by Charvakas or any other opponents. 

" But let it be admitted that there is a thing called a Veda. Still 
it does not deserve, and is unfitted for, explanation, since it does 
not constitute proof. The Veda is no proof, as it is difficult to 
show that it has any sign of that character. Some define proof 
as the instrument of perfect apprehension ; others say, it is that 
which conducts us to what was not before comprehended.' But 
neither of these definitions can be reasonably applied to the Veda. 
For the Veda consists of Mantra and Brahmana. Of these 
mantras some convey no meaning. Thus one is amyak sa ta, etc. ; 
another is yadrismin, etc.; a third is srinyeva, etc. The texts 
dpantu, z * etc., and others are further examples. Now no mean- 
ing whatever is to be perceived through these mantras ; and 
when they do not even convey an idea at all, much less can 
they convey a perfect idea, or be instruments of comprehension. 
Even if the mantra adhah svid asid upari svid asid, ' was it below 
or above?' (R. V. x. 129, 5) convey a meaning, still, like such 
sayings as ' either a post or a man,' it conveys a dubious mean- 

31 The same thing had been said before by S'ankara Acharyya (who lived at the 
end of the 8th or beginning of the 9th century, a.d. See Colebrooke's Misc. Essays, i. 
332), in his commentary on the Brahma Sutras ii. 1, 1. Vedasya hi nirapexam svarlhe , 
pramanyaih ramer iva rupa-vishaye \ pwusha-vachasam tu mulantarapexcm svarthe 
pramanyam vahtri-smriti-vyavahitancha iti vipraharshah. " For the Veda has an 
independent power of demonstration in respect of itself, as the sun has of manifesting 
forms. The words of men, on the other hand, have a power of proving themselves, 
which is derived from another source [the Veda], and which is separated [from its 
source] by the recollection of the author. Herein consists the distinction [between 
the two kinds of evidence]." 

32 See Nirukta, v. 12, and vi. 15, and Eoth's illustrations. It is not necessary for 
my purpose to inquire whether the charge of intelligibility brought against the texts 
is just or not. 



46 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., fcuAP. i. 

ing, and so possesses no authority. The mantra, deliver him, o 
plant, has for its subject, grass. Another, ' do not hurt him, 
axe,' has for its subject an axe (xura). A third, ' hear stones,' 
has for its subject, stones. In these cases, grass, an axe, and 
stones, though insensible objects, are addressed in the Veda as if 
they were intelligent. Hence these passages have no authority, 
because, like the saying, ' two moons,' their import is absurd. 
So also the two texts, ' there is one Eudra, no second has 
existed,' and ' the thousand Eudras who are over the earth,' 
involving, as they do, a mutual contradiction (just as if one 
were to say, ' I have been silent all my life '), cannot be autho- 
ritative. The mantra dpa undantu expresses the wetting of the 
sacrificer's head with water at the time of tonsure; while the 
text ' subhike,' etc. (' garland, mount on my head and decorate 
my face') expresses the placing of a garland formed of flowers 
on the heads of the bridegroom and bride, by way of blessing, 
at the time of marriage. Now, as these two last texts merely 
repeat a matter of common notoriety, they cannot be said to 
conduct us to what was not before comprehended. Wherefore 
the Mantra portion of the Veda is destitute of authority. 

" To this we reply, the meaning of these texts ' amyak,' etc., 
and the others has been explained by Yaska in the Nirukta. 
The fact that they are not understood by persons ignorant of 
that explanation, does not prove any defect in the mantras. It 
is customary to quote here the popular maxim, ' it is not the 
fault of the post that the blind man does not see it ; the reason- 
able thing to say is that it is the man's fault.' The mantra ' adhah 
svid,' etc. (' was it above or below?'), is not intended to convey 
doubt, but rather to signify the extreme profundity of the supreme 
Essence, the cause of the world. "With this view the author inti- 
mates by this turn of expression the difficulty which persons who 
are not versed in the deep Scriptures have, in comprehending 
such subjects. The same intention is manifested in the preced- 
ing mantras ho addha veda, etc. ('who know3?' etc.) In the 
texts oshade, etc. (' o herb,' etc.), also the deities who preside 



bect. vi.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 47 

over these several objects are addressed by these several names. 
These deities are referred to by the venerable Badarayana in the 
aphorism abhimani-vyapadesah. As Eudra, though only one, 
assumes by his power a thousand forms, there is no contradic- 
tion between the different texts which relate to him. And though 
the moistening, etc., of the head by water, etc., is a matter of 
common notoriety, yet as the goodwill of the god who resides 
in these objects is not generally known, the text in question, 
by having that for its subject, is declaratory of what is unknown. 
Hence the Mantra portion of the Veda, being shown to have the 
characteristic mark [of constituting proof], is authoritative." 

Say ana then, in p. 11 of his Preface, proceeds to extend his 
argument to the Brahmanas, and concludes (p. 19) that the 
authority of the whole Veda is proved. 

II. — The second passage which I shall quote is from the 
Vedartha-prakas'a of Madhava Acharyya on the Taittirlya Yajur- 
veda (pp. 1 ff. in the Bibliotheca Indica). Madhava was the 
brother of Sayana, and flourished in the middle of the 14th 
century. (Oolebrooke's Misc. Ess. i. 301.) Nanu ko 'yarn vedo 
ndma ke va asya vishaya-prayqjana-sambandhadhikarinah ka- 
tham va tasya pramdnyam | na khalv etasmin sarvasminn asati 
vedo vyakhyana-yogyo bhavati \ Atrochyate \ Ishtaprdpty-anish- 
ta-parihdrayor alaukikam upayam yo grantho vedayati sa vedali \ 
Alaukika-padena pratyaxanumdne vyavartyete \ Anubhuyama- 
nasya srak-ckandana-vanitdder ishta-prapti-hetutvam aushadha- 
sevader anishta-pavihcLra-ketutvanchapratyaxa-siddham \ Svena- 
nubhavishyamanasya purushantara-gatasya cha tathatvam 
anumana-gamyam \ Evaih tarhi bhavi-janma-gata-sakhadikam 
api anumana-gamyam iti chet \ na \ tadviseshasya anavagamdt \ 
Na khalu jyotishtomadir ishtapraptihetuh kala&ja-bhaxana-var- 
janadir anishtaparihara-hetur ity amum artham veda-vyatire- 
kena anumana-sahasrenapi tarkika-siromanir apy asyavagan- 
tum saknoti \ Tasmad alaukikopaya-bodhako veda iti laxanasya 
nativyaptam \ ata evoktam \ ' Pratyaxenanumitya va yas tupayo 
na budhyate \ Etam vindanti vedena tasmad vedasya vedatd' \ 



48 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

iti | sa evopdyo vedasya vishayah \ tadbodha eva prayojanam \ 
tadbodhdrthl cha adhikdrl \ tena saha upakdryyopakdraka-bhd- 
vah sambandhah \ nanu eva/ih sati stri-sudra-sahitdh sarve vedd- 
dhikdrinah syur ishtam me sydd anishtam ma bhud iti asishah 
sdrvqjanlnatvat \ maivam \ strl-sudrayoh saty updye bodhar- 
thitve hetvantarena vedadhikarasya pratibaddkatvat \ upanlta- 
syaiva adhyayanadhikaram bruvat sastram anupanltayoTi strl- 
sudrayor vedadhyayanam anishta-prapti-hetur iti bodhayati \ 
katham tarhi tayos tadupayavagamah \ puranadibhir iti bru- 
mah | ata evoktam \ strl-sudra-dvijabandhunam trayl na sruti- 
gochara, \ iti Bkaratam akhyanam munind kripayd kritam \ iti \ 
tasmad upanltair eva traivarnikair vedasya sambandhah \ tat- 
prdmdnyantu bodhakatvdt svata eva siddkam \ pauruskeya-vak- 
yantu bodhakam api sat puruska-gata-bkrdnti-mulatva-sambM- 
vanayd tatparihdraya mula-pramdnam apexate na tu vedah, 
tasya nityatvena vaktri-doska-sankanudayat | . . . Nanu vedo 
'pi Kdliddsddi-vdkyavat paurusheya eva Brahma-kdryyatva- 
sravandt \ ' richah sdmdni jajnire \ chhanddmsi jajnire tas- 
mad yajus tasmdd ajdyata' iti sruteh \ ata eva Bddardya- 
nah ' sdstrayonitvdd ' iti sutrena Brahmano veda-kdranatvam 
avochat \ maivam \ srutismritibhydm nityatvdvagamdt \ ' vdchd 
Virupa nityayd' iti sruteh \ ' anddi-nidhand nityd vdg utsrishtd 
svayambkuvd' iti smritescha \ Bddardyano 'pi devatddhika- 
rane sutraydmdsa ' ata eva cha nityatvam' iti \ tarhi pa- 
raspara-virodha iti chet \ na \ nityatvasya vydvahdrikatvdt 
srishter urdhvam saMhdrdt jmrvam vyavahdra-kdlas tasmin 
utpatti-vindsddarsandt \ kdlakasddayo yathd nityd evam vedo 
'pi vyavahtira-kdle Kdliddsddi-vdkyavat purusha-virachitatvd- 
bhdvdd nityah \ ddisrishtau tu kdldkdsddivad eva Brahmanah 
sakdsad vedotpattir dmndyate \ ato vishaya-bheddd na paraspara- 
virodhali \ Brahmano nirdoshatvena vedasya vaktri-doshdbhdvdt 
svatassiddham prdmdnyam tadavastham \ tasmdl laxana-pra- 

mdna-sadbhdvddvishaya-prayojana-sambandhddhikdri-sadbhdvdt 
prdmdnyasya susthatvdchcha vedo vydkhatavya eva. 

" Now, some may ask, what is this Veda, or what are its sub- 



sect, vi.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 49 

ject-matter, its use, its connection, or the persons who are com- 
petent to study it? and how is it authoritative? For, in the 
absence of all these conditions, the Veda does not deserve to be 
expounded. I reply : the book which makes known {vedayati) 
the supernatural {lit. non-secular) means of obtaining desir- 
able objects, and getting rid of undesirable objects, is the Veda. 
By the employment of the word supernatural, [the two ordinary 
means of information, viz. J perception and inference, are excluded. 
By perception it is established that such things as garlands, sandal 
wood, and women are causes of gratification, and that the use 
of medicines and so forth is the means of getting rid of suffering. 
And we ascertain by inference that we shall in future experi- 
ence, and that other men now experience, the same things. 
If it be asked whether, then, the happiness, etc., of a future 
birth be not in the same way ascertainable by inference, I reply 
that it is not, because we cannot get beyond generalities. Not 
even the most brilliant ornament of the logical school could, 
by a thousand inferences, without the help of the Vedas, discover 
the truths that the jyotishthoma and other sacrifices are the 
means of attaining happiness, and that abstinence from the flesh 
of an animal 33 struck with a poisoned arrow is the mean3 of 
removing uneasiness. Thus it is not too wide a definition of 
the Veda to say that it is that which indicates supernatural 
expedients. Hence, it has been said, ' men discover by the 
Veda those- expedients which cannot be ascertained by percep- 
tion or inference; and this is the characteristic feature of the 
Veda.' These expedients, then, form the subject of the Veda ; 
[to teach] the knowledge of them is its use; the person who 
seeks that knowledge is the competent student ; and the connec- 
tion of the Veda with such a student is that of a benefactor with 
the individual who is to be benefitted. 

" But, if such be the case, it may be said that all persons 

33 The only other sense of the word Ttalanja in Boehtlingk and Roth's Lexicon is 
tobacco. It may be doubtful, however, if that weed was known in India when this, 
commentary was written ; and perhaps the illustration may be a traditional one, 
derived from an earlier age. See Miiller in the Z. D. M. G. vii. pp. 376, 377. 

4 



50 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

whatever, including women and sudras, must be competent 
students of the Veda, since the aspiration after good and the 
deprecation of evil are common to the whole of mankind. But 
it is not so. For though the expedient exists, and women and 
sudras are desirous to know it, they are debarred by another 
cause from being competent students of the Veda. The scrip- 
ture (sastra) which declares that those persons only who have 
been invested with the sacrificial cord are competent to read the 
Veda, intimates thereby that the same study would be a cause 
of unhappiness to women and sudras [who are not so invested]. 
How, then, are these two classes of persons to discover the means 
of future happiness ? We answer, from the Puranas and other 
such works. Hence it has been said, ' since the triple Veda may 
not be heard by women, sudras, and degraded twice-born men, 
the Mahabharata was, in his benevolence, composed by the 
Muni.' The Veda, therefore, has only a relation to men of the 
three superior classes who have obtained investiture. 

" Then the authority of the Veda is self-evident, from the fact 
of its communicating knowledge. For though the words of men 
also communicate knowledge, still, as they must be conceived to 
participate in the fallibility of their authors, they require some 
primary authority to remedy that fallibility. But such is not 
the case with the Veda ; for as that had no beginning, it is im- 
possible to suspect any defect in the utterer. . . . 

"A doubt may, however, be raised whether the Veda is not, like 
the works of Kalidasa and others, derived from a personal being ^ 
as it is said in the Veda to have been formed by Brahma, accord- 
ing to the text, ' the Rik and Sama verses, the metres sprang 
from him ; from him the Yajush was produced ;' 35 in consequence of 
which Badarayana, in the aphorism 36 ' since he is the source of the 
sastra,' has pronounced that Brahma is the cause of the Veda. 

34 This seems to be the only way to translate paurusheya, as purusha cannot here 
mean a human being. 

35 R. V. a. 90, 9, quoted in the first Part of this work, pp. 7, 8. 

35 Brahma Sutras, i. 1, 3, p. 7 of Dr. Ballantyne's Aphorisms of the Vedanta. 



sect, vi.] OP THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 51 

But this doubt is groundless ; for the eternity of the Veda has 
been declared both by itself, in the text, ' with an eternal voice, 
o Virupa,' 37 and by the Smriti in the verse 'an eternal voice, 
without beginning or end, was uttered by the Self-existent.' 33 
Badarayana, too, in his section on the deities (Brahma Sutras, 
i. 3, 29) has this aphorism, ' hence also [its] eternity [is to be 
maintained].' If it be objected that these authorities are mutu- 
ally conflicting, I answer, No. For [in the passages where] 
the word eternity is applied to the Vedas, it is to be understood 
as referring to the period of action [or mundane existence]. 
This period is that which commences with the creation, and lasts 
till the destruction of the universe, since, during this interval, 
no worlds are seen to originate, or to be destroyed. Just as 
time and ether (space) are eternal, so also is the Veda eternal, 
because, during the period of mimdane existence, it has not been 
composed by any person, as the works of Kalidasa and others 
have been. 39 Nevertheless, the Veda, like time and space, is 

37 These words are part of Rig-veda, viii. 64, 6 : — Tasmai nunam abhidyave vacha 
Virupa nityaya | vrishne chodasva sushtutim. " Send forth praises to this heaven- 
aspiring and prolific Agni, o Virupa, with an unceasing voice [or hymn]." The word 
nityaya seems to mean nothing more than continual, though in the text I have 
rendered it eternal, as the author's reasoning 6eems to require. Colebrooke (Misc. 
Ess. i. 306), however, translates it by "perpetual." I shall again quote and illus- 
trate this verse further on. 

38 This line, from the M. Bh. S'antip, 8,533, has been already cited above in p. i. 
The Calcutta text, from which I have there quoted, gives vidya instead of nitya, the 
reading of the Vedartha-prakas'a in this passage. It is possible that the line may be 
found also in some of the Puranas. 

39 The same subject is touched on by Sayana, at p. 20 of his commentary, in these 
words : — Nanu bhagavata Badarayanena Vedasya Brahma-karyyatvam sutritam | 
' sastra-yonitvad' iti | rigvedadi-sastra-karanalmd Brahma sarvajnam iti sutrar- 
thah | badham | nd etavata paurusheyatvam bhavati \ manushya-nirmitatvabhavat | 
idrisam apaurusheyatvam abhipretya vyavahara-dasayam akasadi-vad nityatvam 
Badarayanenaiva devatadhilcarane sutritam | ' ata evacha nityatvam' iti. " But it is 
objected that the venerable Badarayana has declared in the aphorism 'since he is the 
source of the sastra' (Brahma Sutras i. 1, 3), that the Veda is derived from Brahma ; 
the meaning of the aphorism being, that since Brahma is the cause of the Rig-veda 
and other S'astras, he is omniscient. This is true ; but it is not sufficient to prove 
the human origin of the Veda, since it was not formed by a man. Badarayana had in 
view such a superhuman origin of the Veda, when in the [other] aphorism ' hence also 
[its] eternity is to be maintained,' (which is contained in the section on the deities), he 
declared its eternity, like that of space, etc., during the period of mundane existence." 



52 OPINIONS BEGAEDING THE OEIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

recorded in Scripture to have originated from Brahma at the 
first creation. There is, therefore, no discrepancy between the 
two different sets of passages, as they refer to different objects. 
And since Brahma is free from defect, the utterer of the Veda is 
consequently free from defect ; and therefore a self-evinced 
authority resides in it. Seeing, therefore, that the Veda pos- 
sesses a characteristic mark, and is supported by proof, and 
that it has a subject, a use, a relation, and persons competent 
for its study, and, moreover, that its authority is established, 
it follows that it ought to be interpreted." 



Sect. VII. — Arguments of the JUim&nsakas and Vedantins in support of 
the eternity and authority of the Vedas. 

I shall now proceed to adduce some of the reasonings by 
which the authors of the Purva Mimansa, and Vedanta aphor- 
isms, and their commentators, defend the doctrine which, as we 
have already seen, is held by some of the Indian writers, that 
the Vedas are eternal, as well as infallible. 

I. Purva Mimansa. — I quote the following texts of the Purva 
Mimansa which relate to this subject from Dr. Ballantyne's 
aphorisms of the Mimansa, pp. 8 ff. I do not always follow the 
words of Dr. Ballantyne's translations, though I have made free 
use of their substance. (See also Colebrooke's Misc. Ess. i. 306, 
or p. 195 of W. and N's. edit.) The commentator introduces 
the subject in the following way : — Sabdarthayor utpattyanan- 
taram purushena kalpita- sanketatmaka-sambandhasya kalpitalvat 
pi£fu&kO'-kalpita-&aMbandha-jnanapexitvat sabdasya yatha prat- 

The remarks of S'ankara on the Brahma Sutra (i. 1, 3) ahove referred to, begin as 
follows : — Mahata rig-vedadeh sastrasya aneka-vidya-sthanopabrimhitasya prad 'pa- 
vat sarvartha-dyotinas sarvajna-lcalpasya yonih haranam Brahma | na hi IdrUasya 
sastrasya rigvedadi-laxanasya sarvajna-gunanvitasya sarvajnc.d anyatah sambhavo 'sti. 
" Brahma is the source of a great S'astra, consisting of the Eig-veda, etc., augmented 
by numerous branches of science, which, like a lamp, illuminates all subjects, and 
approaches to omniscience. Now such a S'astra, distinguished as the Eig-veda, etc., 
possessed of the qualities of an omniscient being, could not hare originated from any 
other than an omniscient being," See Dr. Ballantyne's Vedanta Aphorisms, pp. 7, 8. 



sect, vn,] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 53 

yaxa-jnanafh suktikddau satyatvam vyabhicharati tatha purusha- 
dhlnatvena sabde pi satyatva-vyabhichara-sambhavdt na dharme 
chodana pramanam iti purva-paxe siddhdntam aha. " Since, 
subsequently to the production of words and things, a conven- 
tional connection has been established between the two by the will 
of man, and since language is dependent upon a knowledge of 
this conventional connection determined by man, [it follows 
that] as perception is liable to error in respect of mother-of- 
pearl and similar objeets [by mistaking them for silver], so 
words also may be open to convey unreal notions from [their 
sense] being dependant on human will ; and consequently that 
the Vedic precepts [which are expressed in such words, possess- 
ing a merely conventional and arbitrary meaning] cannot be 
authoritative in matters of duty. Such is an objection which 
may be urged, and in reply to which the author of the aphor- 
isms declares the established doctrine." 

Then follows the fifth aphorism of the first chapter of the first 
book of the Mimansa : — Autpattikastu^ sabdasya^ artkena 
sambandhas^ tasya^ jndnam^ upadeso® 'vyatirekascha^ arthe 
'nupalabdhe^ tat® pramanam Badarayanasya anapexatvdt \ 
which may be paraphrased as follows :— " The connection of a 
word with its sense is coeval with the origin of both. In conse- 
quence of this connection the words of the Veda convey a know- 
ledge of duty, and impart unerring instruction in regard to 
matters imperceptible. Such Vedic injunctions constitute the 
proof of duty admitted by Badarayana, author of the Vedanta 
Sutras, for this proof is independent of perception and all other 
evidence." 

I subjoin most of the remarks of the scholiast as given by 
Dr. Ballantyne, indicating by letters the words of the aphorism 
to which they refer. 

( a) Autpattikah \ svdbhdvikah \ nitya iti yavat \ " Autpattika 
(original) means natural, eternal in short. 

(b > Sabdasya \ nitya-veda-ghataka-padasya ' agnihotrafn juhu- 
yat svarga-kama' ityddeh. " Sabda (word) refers to terms 



54 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

which form part of the eternal veda, such as, 'the man who 
desires heaven should perform the Agnihotra sacrifice.'" 

(c) Sambandha (connection) " in the nature of power," i.e. 
according to Dr. Ballantyne, depending on the divine will that 
such and such words should convey such and such meanings. 

(d) Atas tasya | dharmasya \ " ' Hence' is to he supplied before 
' this,' which refers to ' duty.'" 

(e) Jftanam \ atra karane lyut \ jnapter yathdrtha-jnanasya 
karanam. " In the word jfiana (knowledge) the affix lyut has 
the force of ' instrument,' ' an instrument of correct know- 
ledge.' " 

(f) Upadesah \ artha-pratipadanam. " Instruction, i.e. the 
establishment of a fact." 

( g > Avyatirehah \ avyabhichari drisyate atah. " ' Unerring,' 
i.e. that which is seen not to deviate therefrom." 

(h) Nanu ' vahniman' iti sabda-sravananantaram pratyaxena 
va/mim drishtva sabde pramatvafh grihndti iti loke prasiddheh 
pratyaxadltara-pramana-sapexatvat sabdasya sa katham dharme 
pramanam ata aha anupalabdhe iti \ anupalabdhe pratyaxadi- 
pramanair ajfiate 'rthe. " Since it is a matter of notoriety that 
any one who has heard the words '[the mountain is] fiery' 
uttered, and afterwards sees the fire with his own eyes, is then 
[more than ever]- convinced of the authority of the words, it may 
be asked how words which are thus dependent [for confirmation] 
on perception and other proofs, can themselves constitute the 
proof of duty ? In reference to this, the word anupalabdhe (' in 
regard to matters imperceptible') is introduced. It signifies 
' matters which cannot be known by perception and other such 
proofs.' " 

W Tat | vidhi-ghatita-vakyafh dharme pramanam Badarayan- 
acharyasya sammatam \ ay am asayah \ ' parvato vahniman' 
iti doshavat-purusha-prayuktam vakyam artham vyabhicharati \ 
atah prdmanya-nischaye pratyaxadikam apexate \ tatha 'gniho- 
tramjuhoti iti vakyam kdla-traye 'py artham na vyabhicharati \ 
ata itara-mrapexam dharme pramanam. " This, i.e. a [Vedic] 



bkot. vu.] OF TflE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 55 

sentence consisting of an injunction, is regarded by Badarayana 
also as proof of duty. The purport is this. The sentence, ' the 
mountain is fiery,' when uttered by a person defective [in his 
organ of vision], may deviate from the reality; it therefore 
requires the evidence of our senses, etc., to aid us in determin- 
ing its sufficiency as proof. Whereas the Vedic sentence regard- 
ing the performance of the Agnihotra sacrifice can never deviate 
from the truth in any time, past, present, or future ; and is 
therefore a proof of duty, independently of any other evi- 
dence." 

The commentator then proceeds to observe as follows :—Purva- 
sutre sabddrtkayos sambandho nitya ity uktam \ tachcha sabda- 
nityatvadhinam iti tat sisadhayishur adau sabdanityatva-mdi- 
matam purva-paxam upadayati. " In the preceding aphorism it 
was declared that the connection of words and their meanings [or 
the things signified by them] is eternal. Desiring now to prove 
that this [eternity of connection] is dependent on the eternity of 
words [or sound], he begins by setting forth the first side of the 
question, viz., the doctrine of those who maintain that sound is 
not eternal." 

This doctrine is accordingly declared in the six following 
aphorisms (sutras), which I shall quote and paraphrase, without 
citing, in the original, the accompanying comments. These the 
reader will find in Dr. Ballantyne's work. 

Sutra 6. — Karma eke tatra darsanat. " Some, i.e. the fol- 
lowers of the Nyaya philosophy, say that sound is a product, 
because we see that it is the result of effort, which it would not 
be if it were eternal." 

Sutra 7. — Asthandt. " That it is not eternal, on account of 
its transitoriness, i.e. because, after a moment it ceases to be 
perceived." 

Sutra Q.—Karoti-sabdat. " Because we employ in refer- 
ence to it the expression making, i.e. we speak of making a 
sound." 

Sutra 9. — Sattmntare yaugapadyat. " Because it is per- 



56 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

ceived by different persons at once, and is consequently in 
immediate contact with the organs of sense of those both far and 
near, which it could not be if it were one and eternal." 

Sutra 10. — Prakriti-vikrityoscha. " Because sounds have 
both an original and a modified form; as, e.g. in the case of 
dadhi at.ra, which is changed into dadhy atra, the original 
letter i being altered into y by the rules of permutation. Now, 
no substance which undergoes a change is eternal." 

Sutra 11.-— Yriddhischa kartri-bhumna 'sya. " Because sound 
is augmented by the number of those who make it. Conse- 
quently the opinion of the Mimansakas, who say that sound is 
merely manifested, and not created, by human effort, is wrong, 
since even a thousand manifesters do not increase the object 
which they manifest, as a jar is not made larger by a thousand 
lamps." 

These objections against the Mlmansaka theory that sound is 
manifested, and not created, by those who utter it, are contro- 
verted in the following Sutras : — 

Sutra 12. — Samam tu tatra darsanam. " But, according to 
both schools, viz., that which holds sound to be created, and 
that which regards it as merely manifested, the perception of it 
is alike momentary. But of these two views, the theory of 
manifestation is shown in the next aphorism to be the correct 
one." 

Sutra 13. — Satah param adarsanam vishayanagamat. " The 
non-perception, at any particular time, of sound, which, in 
reality, perpetually exists, arises from the fact that the utterer 
of sound has not come into contact with his object, i.e. sound. 
Sound is eternal, because we recognise the letter k, for instance, 
to be the same sound which we have always heard, and because 
it is the simplest method of accounting for the phenomenon to 
suppose that it is the same. The still atmosphere which inter- 
feres with the perception of sound, is removed by the conjunc- 
tions and disjunctions of air issuing from a speaker's mouth, and 
thus sound (which always exists, though unperceived). becomes 



sect, vii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BT INDIAN AUTHORS. 57 

perceptible. 40 This is the reply to the objection of its ' transi- 
toriness' (Sutra 7)." 

An answer to Sutra 8 is given in 

Sutra 14. — Prayogasya param. " The word ' making ' sounds, 
merely means employing or uttering them." 

The objection made in Sutra 9 is answered in 

Sutra 15. — Aditya-vad yaugayadyam. " One sound is simul- 
taneously heard by different persons, just as one sun is seen by 
them at one and the same time. Sound, like the sun, is a vast, 
and not a minute object, and thus may be perceptible by dif- 
ferent persons, though remote from one another." 

An answer to Sutra 10 is contained in 

Sutra 16. — Yarnahtaram avikarah. " The letter y, which 
is substituted for i in the instance referred to under Sutra 10, 
is not a modification of i, but a distinct letter. Consequently 
sound is not modified." 

The 11th Sutra is answered in 

Sutra 17. — Nada-vriddhih para. " It is an increase of noise, 
not of sound, that is occasioned by a multitude of speakers. 
The word noise refers to the ' conjunctions and disjunctions of 
the air' (mentioned under Sutra 13), which enter simultaneously 
into the hearer's ear from different quarters ; and it is of these 
that an increase takes place." 

The next following Sutras state the reasons which support the 
Mlmansaka view : — 

Sutra 18. — Nityastu syad darsanasya pararthatvat. " Sound 
must be eternal, because its utterance is intended to convey a 
meaning to other persons. If it were not eternal [or abiding], 
it would not continue till the hearer had learned its sense, and 
thus he would not learn the sense, because the cause had ceased 
to exist." 



40 " Sound is unobserved, though existent, if it reach not the object (vibrations of 
air emitted from the mouth of the speaker proceed and manifest sound by their 
appulse to air at rest in the space bounded by the hollow of the ear ; for want of such 
appulse, sound, though existent, is unapprehended)." — Colebroole i. 306. 



58 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

Sutra 19. — Sarvatra yaugapadyat. " Sound is eternal, be- 
cause it is in every case correctly understood by many persons 
simultaneously ; and it is inconceivable that they should all at 
once fall into a mistake." 

When the word go (cow) has been repeated ten times, the 
hearers will say that the word go has been ten times pronounced, 
not that teu words having the sound of go have been uttered ; 
and this fact also is adduced as a proof of the eternity of sound in 

Sutra 20. — Sankhyabhavat. " Because each sound is not 
numerically different from itself repeated." 

Sutra 21. — Anapexatvat. " Sound is eternal, because we 
have no ground for anticipating its destruction." 

" But it may be urged that sound is a modification of air, 
since it arises from its conjunctions (see Sutra 17), and because 
the Silisha (or Vedanga treating of pronunciation) says that ' air 
arrives at the condition of sound ; ' and as it is thus produced 
from air, it cannot be eternal." A reply to this difficulty is 
given in 

Sutra 22. — Prakhyabhavachcha yogyasya. " Sound is not a 
modification of air, because, if it were, the organ of hearing 
would have no appropriate object which it could perceive. No 
modification of air (held by the Naiyayikas to be tangible) could 
be perceived by the organ of hearing, which deals only with 
intangible sound." 

Sutra 23. — Linga-darsanachcha. " And the eternity of sound 
is established by the argument discoverable in the Vedic text, 
'with an eternal voice, o Virupa.' (See above, p. 51). Now, 
though this sentence had another object in view, it, nevertheless, 
repeats the eternity of language, and hence sound is eternal." 

" But though words, as well as the connection of word and 
sense, be eternal, it may be objected— as in the following 
aphorism — that a command conveyed in the form of a sentence 
is no proof of duty." 

Sutra 24. — Utpattau va rachanah syur arthasya atannimit- 
tatvat. "Though there be, a natural connection between words 



sect, vii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 59 

and their meanings, the connection between sentences and their 
meanings is a factitious one, established by human will, from 
these meanings (of the sentences) not arising out of the mean- 
ings of the words. The connection of sentences with their 
meanings is not (like the connection of words with their mean- 
ings) one derived from inherent power (see Sutra 5, remark (°>, 
above, p. 54), but one devised by men ; how, then, can this 
connection afford a sufficient authority for duty 1 " 

An answer to this is given in 

Sutra 25. — Tad-bhutanam kriyarthena samamnayo 'rthasya 
tannimittatvat. " The various terms which occur in every Vedic 
precept are accompanied by a verb, because a perception (such 
as we had not before) of the sense of a sentence is derived 
from a collection of words involving a verb. For a precept is 
not comprehended unless the individual words which make it 
up are understood ; and the comprehension of the meaning of 
a sentence is nothing else than the comprehension of the exact 
mutual relation of the meanings arising out of each word." 

Sutra 26. — Loke sanniyamat prayoga-sannikarshah syat. 
"As in secular language the application of words is fixed, so 
also in the Veda they must be employed in an established sense 
which has been handed down by tradition." 

The author now proceeds in the next following Sutras to 
state and to obviate certain objections raised to his dogmas of 
the eternity and authority of the Vedas. 

Sutra 27. — Vedamschaike sannikarsham purushakhyah. 
" Some (the followers of the Nyaya) declare the Vedas to be 
of recent origin, i.e. not eternal, because the names of men are 
applied to certain parts of them, as the Kathaka and Kauthuma." 

This Sutra, with some of those which follow, is quoted in 
Sayana's commentary on the E. V. vol. i. pp. 19 and 20. Hia 
explanation of the present Sutra is as follows : — 

Yatha Raghuvatfi'sadaya idanintanas tatha veda apt \ na tu 
veda anadayah \ ata eva veda-kartritvena puruskd ajchyayante \ 
Vaiydsikam Bharatam Valmikiyaih Bamayanam ity atra yatha 



60 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

Bharatadi-kartritvena Vyasadaya akhyayante tatha Kathakam 
Kauthwmam Taittirlyakam ity evafn tattad-^eda-mkha-karttri- 
tvena Kathadlnam akhyatatvat paurusheyah | Nanu nityanam eva 
vedanam upadhyaya-vat sampradaya-pravarttakatvena Katka- 
kadi-samakhya syad ity asankya yuktyantaram sutrayati | . . . . 
ka tarhi Kathakadydkhyayikaya gatir ity asankya sampraddya- 
pravarttanat sa iyam upapadyate. "Some say, that as the 
Raghuvansa, etc., are modern, so also are the Vedas, and that 
the Vedas are not eternal. Accordingly, certain men are named 
as the authors of the Vedas. Just as in the case of the Maha- 
bharata, which is called Vaiydsika (composed by Vyasa), and 
the Ramayana, which is called Yalmiklya (composed by Val- 
miki), Vyasa and Valmiki are indicated as the authors of these 
poems ; so, too, Katha, Kuthumi, and Tittiri are shown to be 
the authors of those particular Sakhas of the Vedas which bear 
their names, viz., the Kathaka, Kauthuma, and Taittiriya; and 
consequently those parts of the Vedas are of human origin. In 
answer to this it is suggested that the Vedas, though eternal, 
have received the name of Kathaka, etc., because Katha and 
others, as teachers, handed them down." 

This interpretation is accepted a little further on, in the re- 
marks on one of the following Sutras : — " What, then, is the 
fact in reference to the appellations Kathaka, etc. ? It is proved 
to have arisen from the circumstance that Katha, etc., handed 
down the Vedas." 

Sutra 28. — Anitya-darsanachcha. " It is also objected that 
the Vedas cannot be eternal, because we observe that persons, 
who are not eternal, but subject to birth and death, are men- 
tioned in them. Thus it is said in the Veda ' Babara Pravahani 
desired,' ' Kusurubinda Auddalaki desired.' Now, as the words 
of the Veda in which they are mentioned could not have existed 
before these persons were born, it is clear that these words had 
a beginning, and being thus non-eternal, they are proved to be 
of human origin." (' Babaraji Pravahanir akamayata' ' Kusu- 
ruvinda Auddalakir akamayata' ityddi vedeshu darsanat tesham 



sect, vii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 61 

janandt prdg imani vdkydni ndsann iti sdditvdd anityatvam pau- 
rasheyatvaricha siddham.) 

These objections are answered in the following aphorisms : — 

Sutra 29. — Uktantu sabda-purvatvam. "But the priority — 
eternity— of sound has been declared, and, by consequence, the 
eternity of the Veda." 

Sutra 30. — Akhyd pravachanat. " The names derived from 
those of particular men, attached to certain parts of the Vedas, 
were given on account of their studying those particular parts. 
Thus the portion read by Katha was called Kathaka, etc." 

Sutra 31 . — Parantu srutih sdmanyam. " And names occurring 
in the Veda, which appear to be those of men, are appellations 
common to other beings besides men." 

" Thus the words Babara Prdvahani are not the names of a 
man, but have another meaning. For the particle pra denotes 
'pre-eminence,' vahana means 'motion,' and the letter i repre- 
sents the agent ; consequently the word pravahani signifies that 
which moves swiftly, and is applied to the wind, which is eternal. 
Babara again is a word imitating the sound of the wind. Thus 
there is not even a semblance of error in the assertion that the 
Veda is eternal." ( Yadyapi Babarah Prdvahanir ity asti pa- 
rantu srutih pravahanyddi-sabdah sdmanyam \ anydrthasydpi 
vdchakam \ tatha hi \ 'pra' ityasya utkarshasrayah | ' vahana' 
sabdasya gatih \ ikdrah karttd \ tatha cha utkrishta-gatydsrayo 
vdyu-parah \ sa cha anddih \ Babara iti vdyu-sabdanukaranam 
iti na anupapatti-gandho 'pi.) 

Before proceeding to the 32nd Sutra, I shall quote some 
further illustrations of the 31st, which are to be found in certain 
passages of the Introduction to Sayana's Commentary on the 
Big-veda, where he is explaining another section of the Mimansa 
Sutras. The passages are as follows (p. 7) : — 

Anitya-samyogad mantrdnarthakyam \ ' kirn te krinvanti kika- 
teshv ' iti mantre kikato ndmajanapada dmndtah \ Tatha naicha- 
sakham ndma nagaram pramagando ndma rdjd ity ete 'rthd 
anityd dmndtdk \ Tatha cha sati prak pramaganddd na ayam 



62 



OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 



mantro bkuta-purva iti gamyate. And in p. 10 : — Yad apy uktam 
pramagandady-anityartha-samyogad mantrasya anaditvam na 
syad iti tatrottaram sittrayati | TJkta's chanitya-samyoga iti \ 
prathama-padasya antimadhikarane so 'yam anitya samyoga- 
dosha uktali parihritafi \ Tatha hi \ tatra purva-paxe Vedanam 
paurusheyatvam vaktum kathakam kalapakam tty adi purusha- 
sambandhabhidhanam hetukritya ' anityadarsanachcha' iti het- 
vantaram sutritam \ ' Babardh pravahanir akamayata' ity anit- 
yandm Babaradlnam arthanam darsanat tatah purvam asatt- 
vat paurusheyo veda iti tasya uttaram sutritam ' param tu sruti- 
samanya-matram' iti \ tasya ay am arthah \ yat katkakadi- 
samakhyanam tat pravachana-rdmittam \ yat tu param Baba- 
radyanitya-darsanam tat sabda-samanya-matram na tu tatra 
Babarakhyah ka'schit purusho vivaxitah \ kintu ' babara' iti sab- 
dam kurvan vayur abhidhlyate \ saeha pravahanili \ prakarshena 
vahana-silah \ Evam anyatrapy uhaniyam. " It is objected that 
the mantras are useless, because they are connected with tem- 
poral objects. Thus in the text, ' what are thy cows doing 
among the Klkatas V (see Part Second, p. 362), a country called 
Kikata is mentioned, as well as a city named Naichasakha, and 
a king called Pramaganda, all of them non-eternal objects. 
Such being the case, it is clear that this text did not exist before 
Pramaganda." The answer to this is given in p. 10. " To the 
further objection that the mantras cannot be eternal, because 
such temporal objects as Pramaganda, etc., are referred to in 
them, an answer is given in the following Sutra : — ' The connec- 
tion with non-eternal objects has been already explained.' In 
the last section of the first book, this very objection of the 
hymns being connected with non-eternal things has been stated 
and obviated (see above, Sutras 28-31). For in the statement 
of objections, after it has first been suggested as a proof of the 
human origin of the Vedas, that they bear names, Kathaka, 
Kalapaka, etc., denoting their relation to men, a further, diffi- 
culty is stated in a Sutra, viz., that ' it is noticed that non- 
eternal objects are mentioned in the Vedas ; ' as, for example, 



sect, til] OP THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 63 

where it is said that ' Babara Pravahani desired.' Now, as it 
specifies d on -eternal objects of this kind, the Veda, which could 
not have existed before those objects, must be of human origin. 
The answer to this is given in the aphorism, ' any further names 
are to be understood as common to other things.' The mean- 
ing is this : the names Kdthaka, etc., are given to the Vedas 
because they were expounded by Katha, etc. ; and the further 
difficulty arising from the names of Babara and other objects 
supposed to be non-eternal, is removed by such names being 
common to other objects [which are eternal in their nature]. 
No persons called Babara, etc., are intended by those names, for 
babara is an imitation of a sound. Hence it designates the 
wind, which makes the sound babara. And pravahani refers 
to the same object, as it means that which moves swiftly. The 
same method of explanation is to be applied in other similar 
cases." 

I proceed to the 32nd Sutra. It is asked how the Veda can 
constitute proof of duty when it contains such incoherent non- 
sense as the following : " Jaradgava, in blanket slippers, is stand- 
ing at the door and singing benedictions. A Brahman female, 
desirous of offspring, asks, 'Pray, sir, what is the meaning of 
intercourse on the day of the new moon?' or the following: 
' the cows attended this sacrifice.'" A reply is contained in 

Sutra 32. — Krite vd viniyogah syat karmanali sambandhdt. 
" The expressions to which objection is taken may be applicable 
to the duty to be performed, from the relation in which they 
stand to the ceremony." 

As a different reading and interpretation of this Sutra are 
given by Sayana in his Commentary, p. 20, I shall quote it, and 
the remarks with which he introduces and follows it. 

Nanu vede kvachid evam 'sruyate ' vanaspatayah satram asata 
sarpdk satram asata' iti \ tatra vanaspatinam achetanatvdt sar- 
pdndm chetanatve 'pi vidydrakitatvdd na tad-anus kthanam sam- 
bhavati \ Ato ' Jaradgavo gdyati madrakani' ityady-unmatta- 
bdla-vdkya-sadrisatvdt kenachit krito veda ity dsankya uttarani 



64 OPINIONS KEGARDING THE OBIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

sutrayati \ 'Krite cha aviniyogah sydt karmanah samatvat' \ 
Yadi jyotishtomddi-vdkyam kenachit purus/iena kriyeta taddnim 
krite tasmin vdkye svarga-sddhanatve jyotishtomasya viniyogdh 
na sydt \ sddhya-sadhana-bhavasya purushena jndtum asakyat- 
vdt | sruyate tu viniyogdh \ ' jyotishtomena svarga-kamo yajeta ' 
iti | na cha etat unmatta-vdkya-sadrisa-fn, laukika-vidhi-vakya- 
vad bhavya-karaneti-kart.avyata-rupais tribhir amsair upetaya 
bhavanaya avagamat \ loke hi ' brahmanan bhojayed' iti vidhau 
him kena katham ity akdnxaydfh triptim uddisya odanena drav- 
yena saka-supadi-pariveshana-prakarena iti yathochyate \ jyo- 
tishtoma-vidhav api svargam uddisya somena dravyena dxxaniya- 
dy-angopakara-prakarena ityukte katham unmatta-vakya-sadri- 
sam bhaved iti \ vanaspatyadi-satra-vakyam api na tat-sadrisam 
tasya satra-karmano jyotishtomddina samatvat \ yat-paro hi 
sabdah sa sabdartha iti nyaya-vida ahuh \jyotishtomadi-vakyasya 
vidhdyakatvad anushthane tatparyyam \ vanaspatyddi-satra- 
vdkyasya arthavddatvdd prasamsdyam tatparyam \ sd cha avidya- 
mdnendpi karttum sakyate \ achetand avidvdmso 'pi satram 
anushthitavantah him punas chetand vidndmso brdhmand iti 
satra-stutih. " But it will be objected that the Veda contains 
such sentences as this — ' trees and serpents attended at the sacri- 
fice.' Now, since trees are insensible, and serpents, though 
possessing sensibility, are destitute of knowledge, it is incon- 
ceivable that either the one or the other should assist at the 
ceremony. Hence, from its resembling the silly talk of mad- 
men and children, as where it says, 'Jaradgava sings songs 
fit only for the Madras' (see Part Second, pp. 481 ff.), the Veda 
must have been composed by some man. The answer to this 
doubt is contained in the following Sutra (which I can only 
render by a paraphrase) : — ■ ' If, prescribed by mere human 
authority, no rite can have any efficacy ; but such ceremonies 
as the jyotishtoma rest on the authority of the Veda ; and texts 
such as that regarding the trees and serpents have the same 
intention, i.e. to commend sacrifice.' If the sentence enjoining 
the jyotishtoma sacrifice had been composed by any man, that 



sect, vii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 65 

sacrifice, enjoined by such an authority, would not have been 
applicable as a means of attaining paradise ; for no man can 
know what is the means of accomplishing such an end. But 
the application in question is prescribed in the Veda by the 
words ' let him who seeks paradise, sacrifice with the jyotish- 
toma.' Now this injunction does not resemble the talk of 
a madman, since we recognize in it, as in injunctions of a 
secular kind, the conteiuplation of the three necessary modes 
of the action to be performed. For, as when a question is put 
in regard to the object for which, the instrument through which, 
and the manner in which the secular precept, ' to~ feed Brah- 
mans,' is to be fulfilled,— we are told that the object is to be 
their satisfaction, the instrumental substance boiled rice, and the 
manner that it is to be served up with vegetables and condiments; 
in the same way, in the Vedic injunction regarding the jyotish- 
toma, we are told that paradise is the object, that soma is the 
instrumental substance, and that the application of the intro- 
ductory and other portions of the ritual is the manner. And 
when this is so, how can this precept be compared to the talk of 
a madman ? Nor does the sentence regarding trees, etc., attend- 
ing at a sacrifice admit of such a comparison, since the sacrifice 
in question is similarly circumstanced with the jyotishtoma. 
For the logicians say that the meaning of a word is the sense 
which it is intended to intimate. The purport of the sentence 
regarding the jyotishtoma, which is of a preceptive character, is to 
command performance. The object of the sentence regarding 
trees, etc., attending at a sacrifice, which is of a narrative cha- 
racter, is eulogy ; and this can be offered even by an insensible [?] 
object. The sacrifice is eulogized by saying that it was cele- 
brated even by insensible trees and ignorant serpents : how much 
more, then, by Brahmans possessed both of sensation and know- 
ledge !" 

II.— The Vedanta.—l proceed to adduce the reasonings by 
which Badarayana, the author of the Brahma, Vedanta, or 
Safiraka Sutras, as expounded by Sankara Acharyya in his 



66 



OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. 



Sdrlraka-mlmdMsd-bkdshya, or commentary on those Sutras, 
corroborates the arguments of Jaimini in regard to the eternity 
and consequent authority of the Veda. After discussing the 
question whether any persons but Hindus of the three highest 
tribes are qualified for divine knowledge, the author of the 
Sutras comes to the conclusion that Sudras, or persons of the 
fourth tribe, are incompetent, while beings superior to man, the 
gods, are competent (Colebrooke's Misc. Ess. i. 348, or p. 223 
of W. and N.'s ed.) In Sutra i. 3, 26, the author determines 
that the gods have a desire for final emancipation, owing to 
the instability of their power, and a capacity for acquiring a 
knowledge of Brahma, because they are corporeal beings ; and 
that there is no obstacle which prevents their attaining such 
divine knowledge. A difficulty, however, having been raised 
that the gods cannot be corporeal, because, if they were so, it is 
necessary to conceive that they would be corporeally present at, 
and form (as priests actually do) a part of the ceremonial of, 
sacrifice, which would not consist with the usual course of such 
ceremonies, at which the gods are not seen to be •corporeally 
present, and would, in fact, involve an impossibility, since Indra, 
for example, being but one, could not be corporeally present at 
numerous sacrifices at once ; — this difficulty is solved (under 
Sutra i. 3, 27) in two ways, either by supposing (1) that the 
gods assume different forms, and are present at many sacrifices 
at once, though invisible to mortals ; or by considering (2) that, 
as a sacrifice is offered to a deity, many persons may present 
their oblations to that deity at once, just as one Brahman may 
be saluted by many different persons at the same time. It is, 
therefore, concluded that the corporeal nature of the gods is not 
inconsistent with the practice of sacrifice. Having settled these 
points, Sankara comes to Sutra i. 3, 28. 

' Sabda iti chet \ na \ atah prabhavdt \ pratyaxdnumdnd- 
bhydm.' 

Md ndma vigrahavattve devddindm abhyupagamyamdne kar- 
mani kaschid virodhali prasanji | sabde tu virodhah prasajyeta \ 



sect, vii.] OP THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 67 

katham \ ' Autpatdkam hisabdasya arthena sambandham' dsritya 
' anapexatvdd' iti vedasya pramanyaih sthdpitam \ Iddriintu 
vigrahavatl devatd 'bhyupagamyamdnd yadyapy aisvaryya-yogdd 
yugapad aneka-karma-sambandhlni havlmshi bhunjlta tathapi 
vigraha-yogdd asmadddi-vaj janana-maranavati sa iti nityasya 
sabdasya anityena arthena nitya-sambandhe prallyamdne yad 
vaidike sabde pramanyaih sthitam tasya virodhah syad iti chet \ 
na ay am apy asti virodhali \ kasmad ' atah prabhavat' \ Ata eva 
hi vaidikat sabddd devadikam jagat prabhavati \ Nanu ' jan- 
madi asyayatah' (Brahma Sutras i. 1, 2) iti brahma-prabhavat- 
vamjagato 'vadharitam katham iha sabda-prabhavatvam uchyate \ 
Apicha yadi nama vaidikat sabddd asya prabhavo 'bhyupagatah 
katham etavata virodhah sabde parihritah \ yavata Vasavo 
Rudrd Adityd Visvedevd Maruta ity ete 'rthd anityd eva utpatti- 
mattvdt | Tad-anityatve cha tad-vdchakanam vaidikdndm Vas- 
vddi-sabddnam anityatvam kena vdryyate \ Prasiddham hi loke 
Devadattasya putre utpanne Yajnadatta iti tasya nama kriyate 
iti | Tasmad virodha eva sabde iti chet \ na \ Gavddi-'sabddrtha- 
sambandha-nityatva-darsandt \ Na hi gavadi-vyaktlndm utpatti- 
mattve tad-dkritlndm apy utpattimattvam sydd dravya-guna-kar- 
mandfh hi vyaktaya eva utpadyante na akritayah \ Akritibhischa 
sabddnam sambandho na vyaktibhih \ vyaktindm anantyat sam- 
bandha-grahandnupapatteh \ Vyaktishu utpadyamdndsvapy dkri- 
tlnafh nityatvdd na gavddi-sabdeshu kaschid virodho drisyate \ 
Tatha devddi-vyakti-prabhavdbhyupagame 'pi akriti-nityatvdd na 
kaschid Vasv-adi-sabdeshu virodha iti drashtavyam \ Akriti- 
viseshas tu devddinam mantrarthavddadibhyo vigrahavattvddy- 
avagamdd avagantavyak \ Sthdna-visesha-sambandha-nimittdscha 
Indrddi-sabdah senapatyddi-sabda-vat \ Tatascha yo yas tat tat 
sthanam adhitishthati sa sa Indrddi-sabdair abhidhiyate iti na 
dosho bhava,ti | Na cha idan sabda-prabhavatvam Brahma-pra- 
bhavatva-vad updddna-kdranatvabhiprdyena uchyate \ katham 
tarhi sthiti-vdchakatmand nitye sabde nitydrtha-sambandhini 
sabda-vyavdhdra-yogydrtha-vyakti-nishpattir 'atah prabhava' 
ity uchyate \ katham punar avagamyate sabddt prabhavati jag ad 



68 



OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 



iti | ' pratyaxdnumdndbhydm' \ Pratyaxam srutih \ pramanyam 
prati anapexatvdt \ anumdnam smritih \ pramanyam prati sdpex- 
atvat | Te hi sabda-purvdm srishti-m darsayatah \ ' Eta' iti vaipra- 
japatir devan asrijata ' asrigram' iti manushyan ' indavd itipitnms 
' tirah pavitram' iti grahan ' asava' iti stotram ' vi'smni iti sastram 
abhi saubhagd ' ity any ah praja iti srutih \ Tatha 'nyatrapi sa 
manasa vacham mithunam samabhavad' ityddina tatra tatra 
sabda-purvika srishtih sravyate \ Smritir api ' anadi-nidkana 
nitya vag utsrishta svayambhuva \ adau vedamayl divya yatah 
sarvah pravrittayah ' ity utsargo 'py ayain vachah sampradaya- 
pravarttanatmako drashtavyak anadi-nidhanayah anyadrisasya 
utsargasya asambhamt \ Tatha ' nama-rupancha bhutanam kar- 
manancha pratarttanam \ Veda-sabdebhya evadau nirmame sa 
mahesvarah' iti | ' sarveshancha sa namani karmani cha prithak 
prithak \ Veda-sabdebhya evadau prithak samstha'scha nirmame ' 
iti cha | Apicha chikirshitam artham anutishthan tasya vach- 
akaih sabdam purvaih smritvd paschat tarn artham anutishthati 
iti sarveshaih nah pratyaxam etat \ Tatha prajapater api srash- 
tufi srishfeh purvaih vaidikah sabda manasi pradurbabhuvuh 
paschat tad-anugatan arthan sasarjja iti gamyate \ Tatha cha 
srutih ' sa bhur iti vyaharan bhumim asrijata ' ityevamddikd 
bhuradi-sabdebhya eva manasi pradurbhutebhyo bhur-adi-lokan 
pradurbhutan srishtan dar'sayati \ kimdtmakam punah sabdam 
abhipretya idam sabda-prabhavatvam uchyate \ sphotam ityaha \ 
. . . Tasmad nityat sabdat sphota-rupad abhidhayakdt kriyd- 
karaka-phala-laxanam jagad abhidheya-bhutam prabhavatiti \ 
. . . Tatascha nityebhyah sabdebhyo devadi-vyaktinam prabhava 
ity aviruddham. 

Sutra i. 3, 29. ' Ata eva cha nityatvam' \ svatantrasya kart- 
tuh smaranad eva hi sthite vedasya nityatve devadi-vyakti-pra- 
bhavabhyupagamena tasya virodham asankya ' atah prabhavad' 
iti parikritya idanlih tad eva veda-nityatvam sthitarTi dradka- 
yati 'ata eva cha nityatvam' iti \ ata eva cha niyatakriter 
devdder jagato veda-sabda-pirabhavatvdd eva veda-sabda-nityat- 
vam api pratyetavyam \ Tatha cha mantra- varnah ' yajnena 



sect, m] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 69 

vachah padaviyam ay an tarn amavindann rishishu pravishtam' 
iti sthitam eva vacham anuvinndm darsayati \ Vedavyasascha 
evam eva smarati \ ' yugante 'ntarhitan vedan setikasan mahar- 
shay ah \ lebhire tapasa purvam anujnatdh svayambhuva' iti. 

" Sutra i. 3, 28 : — ' But it is said that there will be a contra'- 
diction in respect of sound (or the word) ; but this is not so, 
because the gods are produced from it, as is proved by intuition 
and inference.' 

" Be it so, that though the corporeality of the gods, etc., be 
admitted, no contradiction will arise in respect of the ceremonial. 
Still [it will be said that] a contradiction will arise in regard to 
the word. How ? [In this way.] By founding upon the ' in- 
herent connection of a word with the thing signified,' the autho- 
rity of the Veda had been established by the aphorism ' anapex- 
atvat,' etc. (Mimansa Sutras i. 2, 21 ; see above, p. 58.) But 
now, since it has been asserted that the deities are corporeal, it 
will follow that (though from their possession of divine power 
they can at one and the same time partake of the oblations 
offered at numerous sacrifices), they will still, owing to their 
corporeality, be subject, like ourselves, to birth and death ; and 
hence, the eternal connection of the eternal word with an object 
which is non-eternal being lost, a contradiction will arise in regard 
to the authority proved to belong to the word of the Veda ; [for 
thus the word, not having any eternal connection with the non- 
eternal thing, could not be eternal, and not being eternal, could 
not be authoritative]. But this supposed contradiction has no 
existence. How ? ' Because they are produced from it.' Hence 
the world of gods, etc., is produced from the Vedic word. But 
according to the aphorism (Brahma Sutras i. 1, 2) 'from him 
the production, etc., of all this is derived,' it is established that 
the world has been produced from Brahma. How, then, is it said 
here that it is produced from the word ? And, moreover, if it be 
allowed that the world is produced from the Vedic word, how is 
the contradiction in regard to the word thereby removed, inasmuch 
as all the following classes of beings, viz., the Vasus, Kudras, 



70 



OPINIONS EEGAEDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 



Adityas, Visvedevas, Maruts, are non-eternal, because produeed ; 
and when they are non-eternal, what is there to bar the non-eternity 
of the Vedic words Vasu, etc., by which they are designated ? 
For it is a common saying, ' When a son is born to Devadatta, 
that son receives the name of Yajnadatta,' [i.e. no child receives 
a name before it exists]. Hence a contradiction does arise in 
regard to [the eternity of] the word. To this objection we reply 
with a negative ; for in the case of such words as con we discover 
an eternal connection between the word and the thing. For 
although individual cows, etc., come into existence, the species 
to which they belong does not begin to exist, as it is individual 
substances, qualities, and acts, which begin to exist, and not 
their species. Now it is with species that words are connected, 
and not with individuals, for as the latter are infinite, such a 
connection would in their case be impossible. But as species 
are eternal (though individuals begin to exist) no contradiction 
is discoverable in the case of such words as cow, etc. In the 
same way it is to be remarked that though we allow that the 
individual gods, etc., have commenced to exist, there is no con- 
tradiction [to the eternity of the Vedic word] in the [existence of 
the] words Vasu, etc. [which denote those individual gods], 
since species are eternal. And the fact that the gods, etc., 
belong to particular species may be learned from this, that 
we discover their corporeality and other attributes in the hymns 
and arthavadas (explanatory remarks in the Vedas), etc. The 
words Indra, etc., are derived from connection with some par- 
ticular post, like the words ' commander ' {senapdti), etc. Hence, 
whosoever occupies any particular post, is designated by the 
words Indra, and so forth ; and therefore Indra and the other 
gods belong to the species of occupants of particular posts. 
Thus there is no difficulty. And this derivation from the 
word is not, like production from Brahma, meant in the sense 
of evolution from a material cause. How, then (since lan- 
guage is eternal and connected with eternal objects), is it de- 
clared in the phrase 'produced from it' that the production of 



sect, vii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 71 

individual beings, in the ordinary sense of the expression, is 
effected by a thing (sound or language), the very nature of 
which it is to denote continuance [and not such change as is 
involved in the idea of production ? ] How, again, is it known 
that the world is produced from the word ? The answer is, [it 
is known] 'from intuition and inference.' 'Intuition' means 
the Veda, because it is independent of any (other) authority. 
'Inference' means the smriti, because it is dependent on another 
authority (the Veda). These two demonstrate that the creation 
was preceded by the word. Thus the Veda says, ' at (or with) 
the word ete {these) Prajapati created the gods ; at asrigram {they 
were 'poured out) he created men ; at indavah (drops of soma) he 
created the pitris ; at tirah pavitram (through the filter) he 
created the planets ; at asavah (swift) he created hymns ; at 
visvani (all) he created praise ; and at the words abhi saubhaga 
(for the sake of blessings) he created the other creatures.' 41 And 
in another place it is said ' with his mind he produced speech, 
[as] a mate.' (Vrih. Ar. Up. p. 50.) By these and other such 
texts the Veda declares that creation was preceded by the word. 
And when the Smriti says, ' At first a divine voice, eternal, 
without beginning or end, formed of the Vedas, was uttered by 
Svayambhu, from which all activities [proceeded]' (see above, 
p. 4, note 2), the expression utterance of the voice is to be 
regarded as employed out of deference to the customary 
phraseology, since it is inconceivable that a voice which was 
' without beginning or end,' could be uttered in the same sense 
as other sounds. Again, we have this other text, ' In the 
beginning Mahesvara created from the words of the Veda the 
names and forms of creatures, and their several modes of action ; ' 

41 I am unable to say whence this passage is derived ; but it seems to be a mystical 
exposition, from a Brahmana or Fpanishad, of the words from Eig-veda ix. 62, 1 
(= Sama-veda ii. 180), which are imbedded in it, viz., ete asrigram mdavas tirah 
pavitram asavah \ visvani abhi saubhaga. "These hurrying drops of soma have been 
poured through the filter, to procure all blessings." (See Benfey's translation.) 
It was by the help of Dr. Pertsch's alphabetical list of the initial words of the 
verses of the Eig-veda (in "Weber's Ind. Stud.) that I discovered the verse in question 
in the E. V. 



72 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

and again, ' He created in the beginning the several names, 
functions, and conditions of all creatures from the words of the 
Veda.' (See above, p. 4, note 2.) And it is a matter of com- 
mon observation to us all, that when any one is occupied with 
any end which he wishes to accomplish, he first calls to mind 
the word which expresses it, and then proceeds to effect his 
purpose. So, too, in the case of Prajapati the creator, we con- 
clude that before the creation the words of the Veda were mani- 
fested in his mind, and that afterwards he created the objects 
which resulted from thern. Thus the Vedic text which says, 
' uttering bhur, he created the earth (jbhurra), etc.,' intimates 
that the different worlds, earth and the rest, were manifested, i.e. 
created from the words bhur, etc., manifested in his mind. Of 
what sort, now, was this word which is intended, when it is said 
that the world was produced from the word? It was sphota 
{disclosure or expression), we are told." 

I shall not quote the long discussion (extending over two 
quarto pages) on which Sankara here enters, regarding this 
term. (See Colebrooke's Misc. Ess. i. 305, ff. ; Ballantyne's 
Christianity Contrasted with Hindu Philosophy, pp. 192 ff. ; the 
same author's translation of the commencement of the Maha- 
bhashya, p. 10 ; and Muller's article on the last-named work in 
the journal of the German Or. Soc. vii. 170). Sankara states his 
conclusion to be that " from the eternal word, in the form of 
sphota, which designates [all things], the object to be desig- 
nated, viz., the world, under the three characters of action, 
causer, and the results of action, is produced," and finishes his 
remarks on this Sutra (i. 3, 28) by observing : " Consequently 
there is no contradiction in saying that the individual gods, etc., 
are derived from eternal words." He then proceeds to Sutra i. 
3, 29 : — '" Hence results the eternity of the Vedas.'" On this 
he observes, " The eternity of the Veda had been established by 
the fact that it was remembered by its Self-dependent Maker. 
But a doubt had been suggested that this eternity is inconsistent 
with the admission that individual gods, etc., have commenced to 



sect, viii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 73 

exist. This doubt, however, having been set aside by the preced- 
ing aphorism, ' Since they are produced from it,' he now confirms 
the eternity of the Veda (which had been already proved) by the 
words of the Sutra before us, which mean, that as a result of 
this very fact that the world, consisting of gods and other beings 
belonging to fixed species, was produced from the words of the 
Vedas, the eternity of these Vedic words themselves also must be 
believed. Accordingly, the words of the hymn, ' by sacrifice they 
followed the path of Vach, and found her entered into the rishis' 
(R. V. x. 71, 3 ; see Part Second, p. 220) prove that Vach 
already existed when she' was discovered. And in the very 
same way Vedavyasa records that, ' formerly the great rishis, 
empowered by Svayambhu, obtained through devotion the 
Vedas and Itihasas, which had disappeared at the end of the 
preceding yuga.'" 

Sect. VIII. — Arguments of the followers of the Nyaya and Sanlchya 
Systems in support of the authority of the Vedas, hut against the 
eternity of sound. 

I. — The Nyaya. — The eternity of sound is, as we have already 
discovered from the allusions of the Mlmansaka commentator, 
(above p. 55), denied by the followers of the Nyaya school. 
The consideration of this subject is begun in the following way 
in the Nyaya aphorisms of Grotama, as explained by Visvanatha 
Bhattacharya in the Nyaya-sutra-vritti, ii. 81. 

Vedasya pramanyam apta-pramanydt siddham | na cha idam 
yujyate vedasya nityatvdd ity asankayafh, varnanam anityatvdt 
kathaM tatsamuddya-rupasya vedasya nityatvam ity asayena 
sabddnityatva-prakaranam arabhate \ tatra siddkanta-sutram \ 
' Adimattvad aindriyakatvat kritakatvad upacharachcha' \ 81 | 
sabdo 'nitya ityadih \ adimattvat sakaranakatvat \ nanu na 
sakaranakatvam kantha-talvady-abhighatader vyanjakatvenapy 
upapatter ata aha aindriyakatvdd iti samdnyavattve sati vahir- 
indriya-janya-laukika-pratyaxa-vishayatvad ity arthah \ 



74 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

Aprayojakatvam dsankya aha kritaketi | hritake ghatddau yathd 
upacharo jnanam tathaiva karyyatva-prakaraka-pratyaxa-visha- 
yatvad ityarthafi \ tatha cha karyatvena anaharyya-sarvalau- 
kika-pratyaxa-balad anityatvam eva siddhati. " It has been 
proved (in the 68th Sutra, see below) that ' the authority of the 
Veda follows from the authority of the wise person who made 
it.' But it may be objected that this is not a proper ground on 
which to base the authority of the Veda, since it is eternal. 
With the view of proving, in opposition to this, that since letters 
are not eternal, the Veda, which is a collection of letters, cannot 
be so either, the author of the Sutras commences the section on 
the non-eternity of sound. The Sutra laying down the esta- 
blished doctrine is as follows : — ' Sound cannot be eternal, as 
(1) it had an origin, as (2) it is cognizable by sense, and (3) it 
is spoken of as factitious.' Sound is non-eternal, etc., because 
(1) it had a beginning, i.e., because it had a cause. But it may 
be said that it had no cause, as, agreeably to the doctrine of the 
Mlmansakas (see above, p. 56), the action of the throat and 
palate in pronunciation may merely occasion a manifestation 
of sound without creating it. In reply to this, it is said (2) 
that sound is cognizable by sense, i.e., that though it belongs to 
a genus, it is an object of ordinary perception through an ex- 
ternal sense." [A different explanation given by other inter- 
preters is next quoted, which I omit. J " Then surmising that 
the preceding definition may be regarded as not to the point, 
the author adds the words ' as it is spoken of as factitious,' i.e., 
as jars and other such objects are spoken of as, — are known to 
be, — products, so, too, sound is distinguishable by sense as 
being in the nature of a product. And in consequence of this 
necessary [or incontrovertible ? ] and universal perception of its 
being' produced, it is proved that it cannot be eternal." [Two 
other explanations of this last clause of the Sutra are then 
added.] 

Leaving the reader to study the details of the discussion in 
Dr. Ballantyne's aphorisms of the Nyaya (Part Second, pp. 



sect, viii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 75 

77 ff.), I will pass over most of the Sutras, and merely quote 
the principal conclusions of the Nyaya aphorist. In Sutra 86 
he says, in opposition to the 13th Sutra of the Mimansa (above, 
p. 56) ; 

86. — ' Prag uchcharanad anupalambhad avaranady-anupa- 
labdheh' \ Sabdo yadi nityali syad uchcharanat prag apy upala- 
bhyeta srotra-sannikarsha-sattvat \ na cha atra pratibandhakam 
asti itydha avaraneti avaranddeh pratibandhakasya anupalab- 
dhya abhdva-nirnaydt \ desantara-gamanantu sabdasya amur- 
ttatvdd na sambhavyate \ atlndriydnanta-pratibandhakatva-kalpa- 
nam apexya sabdanityatva-kalpana eva laghiyasl iti bkavah. 
Sound is not eternal, because it is not perceived before it 
is uttered, and because we do not perceive anything which 
should intercept it.' If sound were eternal, it would be per- 
ceived even before it was uttered, from its being in contact with 
the ear. [Sound, as Dr. Ballantyne explains, is admitted to be 
a quality of the all-pervading ether.] And in the next words the 
aphorist says that there is no obstacle to its being so heard, 
since the non-existence of any hindrance, such as an intercept- 
ing medium, is ascertained by our not perceiving anything of 
that sort. And it is not conceivable that sound should have 
gone to another place [and for that reason be inaudible], since 
it has no defined form. The supposition that sound is non- 
eternal, is simpler than the supposition that there are an infinity 
of imperceptible obstacles to its perception." 

The 89th and 90th Sutras, with part of the comments on 
them, are as follows : — 89. ' Asparsatvat' \ sabdo nityah | aspar- 
satvad gagana-vad iti bhdvali \ 90. ' Na karmanityatmV \ as- 
far'svatva'fh na sabda-nityatva-sadkakain karmani vyabhicharat.. 
89. " It may be said that sound is eternal, from its being, like- 
the sky, intangible. 90. But this is no proof, for the intangi- 
bility of sound does not establish its eternity, since these two 
qualities do not always go together; for intangibility, though 
predicable, e.g., of action, fails to prove its eternity." 

The 100th and following Sutras are as follows :— 100. ' Vim- 



76 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., |c' H «. i. 

sa-karananupalabdheh' | 101. ' Asravana-karatidnupalabdheli 
satata-sravana-prasangah' \ Yady apratyaxad abhava-siddhis 
tada 'sravana-karanasya apratyaxatvad asravaiiam na sydd 
iti satata-sravana-prasanga iti bhavah || 102. ' Upalabhyamane 
cha anupalabdher asattvdd anapadesah ' || Anumanddina upala- 
bhyamane vindsa-hdrane anupalabdher abhavat tvadlyo hetur 
anapadesah asddhakah asiddhatvdt | janyabhavatvena vindsa- 
kalpanam iti bhavah. " It is said (100) that ' sound must 
be eternal, because we perceive no cause why it should cease.' 
The answer is (101), first, ' that if the non-existence of any- 
such, cause of cessation were established by the mere fact of 
its not being perceived, such non-perception would occasion our 
hearing continually, which is an absurdity.' And (102), secondly, 
' since such non-perception is not a fact, inasmuch as [a cause 
of the cessation of sound] is perceived, this argument falls 
to the ground.' Since a cause for the cessation of sound is 
discovered by inference, etc., and thus the non-perception of any 
cause is seen to be untrue, this argument of yours proves 
nothing, because its correctness is not established. The purport 
is that we suppose, from sound being produced, that it must 
also be liable to perish." 

Sutras 106—122 are occupied with a consideration of the 
question (above treated, pp. 56, 57, in Sutras 10 and 16 of the 
Mimansa) whether letters can change or not. The conclusion 
at which Gotama arrives is, that the substance of letters cannot 
undergo any alteration, though they may be said to change 
when they are modified in quality by being lengthened, short- 
ened, etc. 

In a preceding part of the Second Book (Sutras 57 — 68) 
Gotama treats of the Veda, and repels certain charges which are 
alleged against its authority. I shall quote most of these 
aphorisms, and cite the commentary more fully than Dr. Bal- 
lantyne has done. (See Ballantyne's Nyaya Aphorisms, Part ii. 
pp. 56 ff.) 

Sabdasya drishtadrishtarthakatvena dvaividhyam uktam tatra 



sect, viii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 77 

cha adrishtarthaka-sabdasya vedasya prdmdnyam parlxitum 
purva-paxayati || 57. ' Tad-apramdnyam anrita-vydghdta-pu- 
narukta-doshebhyah ' \\ Tasya drishtdrthaka-vyatirikta-sabdasya 
vedasya aprdmdnyam \ kutah \ anritatvddi-doskdt \ tatra cha 
putreskti-kdryddau kvachit pkaldnutpatti-darsandd anritatvam \ 
vyaghdtah purvdpara-virodhah \ yathd ' udite juhoti anudite 
jukoti samayadhyushite juhoti \ syavo 'sya ahutim abkyavaharati 
ya udite juhoti savalo 'sya ahutim abkyavaharati yo 'nudite juhoti 
sydva-savalav asya ahutim abhyavaharato yah samayadhyushite 
juhoti' atra cha uditadi-vakyandm ninddnumitanishta-sddha- 
nata-bodhaka-vdkya-virodhah \ paunaruktydd apramanyam \ 
Yatha trih prathamdm anvaha \ trir uttamdm anvaha \ ity atra 
uttamatvasya prathamatva-paryavasdndt trill kathanena cha 
paunaruktyam \ eteshdm aprdmanye tad-drishtdntena tad-eka- 
karttrikatvena tad-eka-jdtlyatvena va sarva-veddprdmdnyam 
sddkanlyam iti bhdvah \ siddhdnta-sutram || 58. Na karma- 
karttri-sddhana-vaigunydt ' || Na veddprdmanyam karma-harttri- 
sadhana-vaigunydt phalabhdvopapatteh \ karmanah kriydyd vai- 
gunyam ayathdvidhitvadi \ karttur vaigunyam avidvattvddi \ 
sddhanasya havir-dder vaigunyam dproxitatvddi \ Yathokta-kar- 
manah phaldbhave hy anritatvam \ na cha evam asti iti bhdvah \ 
vydghdtam pariharati || 59. ' Abhyupetya kala-bhede dosha-wcha- 
nat' || na vydghdta iti seshah \ Agnyddhana-kdle udita-homddi- 
kam abhyupetya svlkritya anudita-homddi-karanepurvokta-doska- 
kathanad na vydghdta ity arthah \ paunaruktyam pariharati || 
60. Anuvadopapattescha || chah punar-arthe \ anuvddopapatteh 
punar na paunaruktyam \ niskprayojanatve hi paunaruktyam 
doshah \ ukta-sthale tv anuvddasya upapatteh prayojanasya 
sambhavat \ ekddasa-sdmidhenlndm prathamottamayos trir abhi- 
dkane hi panchadasatvaih sambhavati \ tathacha panchadasatvam 
sruyate \ ' Imam aham bhrdtrivyam panchadasavarena vdg-vaj- 
rena cha bddhe yo 'smdn dveshti yaficha vayam dviskma' iti \ 
Anuvddasya sdrtkakatvam loka-prasiddham ity dka || 61. Vdkya- 
vibhdgasya cha artha-grakandt || Vdkya-vibhdgasya \ anuvdda- 
tvena vibhakta-vdkyasya artha-grahanat prayojana-svikdrdt \ 



78 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

sishtair iti seshah \ sishta hi vidhayakdnuvadakadi-bhedena vak- 
yam vibhajya anuvddakasyapi saprayojanatvam manyante \ Vede 
'py evam iti bhavah | . . . Evam apramanya-sddhakam nirasya 
pramanyam sadhayati || 68. Mantrayurveda-vachcha tat-prdman- 
yam dpta-prdmdnydt || Aptasya veda-karttuh prdmdnyat yathdr- 
thopadesakatvdd vedasya taduktatvam arthdl labdham \ tena 
hetund vedasya pramanyam anumeyam | tatra drishtdntam aha 
mantrayurveda-vad iti \ mantro vishadi-nasakah \ ayurveda- 
bhagascha veda-stha eva \ tatra samvadena pramanya-grahat 
tad-drishtantena vedatvavachhedena pramanyam anumeyam \ 
aptam grihltam pramanyam yatra sa vedas tadrisena wdatvena 
pramanyam anumeyam iti kechit. " It had been declared (Nyaya 
Sutras i. 8) that verbal evidence is of two kinds, (1) that of 
which the subject-matter is seen, and (2) that of which the sub- 
ject-matter is unseen. With the view, now, of testing the 
authority of that verbal evidence which refers to unseen things, 
"viz., the Veda, Gotama states the first side of the question. 
Sutra 57. ' The Veda has no authority, since it has the defects 
of falsehood, self-contradiction, and tautology.' That verbal 
evidence which is distinct from such as relates to visible objects, 
i.e., the Veda, has no authority. Why? Because it has the 
defects of falsehood, etc. Of these defects, that of 'falsehood' 
is exemplified in the fact that we sometimes observe that no 
fruit results from performing the sacrifice for a son, or the like. 
' Self-contradiction ' is a discrepancy between a former and a 
later declaration. Thus the Veda says, ' he sacrifices when the 
sun is risen ; he sacrifices when the sun is not yet risen ; he 
sacrifices in the morning twilight. A tawny [demon ?] carries 
away the oblation of him who sacrifices after the sun has risen ; 
a brindled [demon ?] carries off the oblation of him who sacrifices 
before the sun has risen ; and both of these two carry off the 
oblation of him who sacrifices in the morning twilight.' Now here 
there is a contradiction between the words which enjoin sacrifices 
and the words which intimate by censure that those sacrifices will 
occasion disastrous results. Again, the Veda has no authority, 



sect, viii.] OF THE YEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 79 

owing to its ' tautology,' as where it is said, ' he repeats the first 
thrice, he repeats the last thrice.' For as the lastness ultimately 
coincides with [?] the firstness, and as there is a triple repetition 
of the words, this sentence is tautological. Now since these 
particular sentences have no authority, the entire Veda will he 
proved by these specimens to stand in the same predicament, 
since all its other parts have the same author, or are of the 
same character, as these portions." 

Here follows the Sutra which conveys the established doc- 
trine. " 58. ' The Veda is not false ; it is owing to some fault in 
the ceremonial, or the performer, or the instrument he employs, 
that any sacrifice is ineffectual.' Faults in the ceremonial are 
such as its not being according to rule. Faults in the performer 
are such as ignorance. Faults in the instrument, i.e., in the 
clarified butter, etc., are such as its not being duly sprinkled, 
etc. For falsehood might be charged on the Veda, if no fruit 
resulted from a sacrifice when duly performed ; but such is not 
the case." 

Gotama next repels the charge of self-contradiction in the 
Vedas. "59. 'There is no self-contradiction, for the fault is 
only imputed in case the sacrifice should be performed at a 
different time from that at first intended.' The fault imputed to 
these sacrifices in the text in question would [only] be imputed 
if, after agreeing, at the time of placing the sacrificial fire, to 
perform the sacrifice after sunrise, one were to change it to a 
sacrifice before sunrise ; there is, therefore, no self-contradiction 
in the passage referred to." 

He next rebuts the charge of tautology. " 60. ' The Veda is 
not tautological, because repetition may be proper.' The par- 
ticle ' cha' means again. 'Again, since repetition may be 
proper, there is no tautology.' For repetition is only a fault 
when it is useless. But in the passage referred to, since repeti- 
tion is proper, its utility is apparent. For when the first and 
the last of the eleven samidkems (forms of prayer used on throw- 
ing fuel into the fire) are each repeated thrice, the whole number 



80 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

of verses will be made up to fifteen. 110 - Accordingly, this num- 
ber of fifteen is mentioned in these words of the Veda, ' I smite 
this enemy who hates us, and whom we hate, with the last of 
the fifteen verses, and with the thunderbolt of my words.' " 

He next observes that the advantage of repetition is commonly 
recognised. "61. 'And the Veda is not tautological, because 
the utility of this division of discourse is admitted, i.e., because 
the necessity for a division of language, that is, of a description 
of language characterized as reiterative, is acknowledged by the 
learned. For by dividing language into the different classes of 
injunctive, reiterative, etc., learned men recognise the uses of the 
reiterative also. And this applies to the Veda." 

The author of the aphorisms then proceeds to state and to 
define (in Sutras 62 — 67) the different sorts of discourse em- 
ployed in the Veda, and to defend the propriety of reiteration. 

Having thus refuted the arguments which aim at showing 
that the Veda is of no authority, he goes on to prove its autho- 
rity. 68. ' The authority of the Veda, like that of the spells and 
the medical treatise, follows from the authority of the wise 
[person who made it].' Since a wise [person], the maker of a 
Veda, possesses authority, i.e., is one who inculcates truth, it 
results from the force of the terms that the Veda was uttered by 
a person of this character ; and by this reasoning the authority 
of the Veda is to be inferred. He illustrates this by the case of 
the spells and medical treatise. By spells {mantra) are meant 
the formulae which neutralize poison, etc., and the section of the 
medical treatise (ayurveda) forms part of the Veda. Now as 
the authority of these two writings is admitted by general con- 
sent, the authority of everything which possesses the character- 
istics of the Veda must be inferred from this example. Some, 
however, explain the aphorism thus : a Veda is that in which 
authority is found or recognized. From such vedicity (or pos- 

42 If there are in all eleven formulae, and two of these are each repeated thrice, we 
have (2x3 = ) six to add to the nine (which remain of the original eleven), making 
(6 + 9 = ) fifteen. See Miiller's Anc. Sans. Lit. pp. 89 and 393. 



sect, viii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 81 

session of the character of a Veda), the authority of any work is 
to be inferred." 

It is not necessary to regard this 68th Sutra as expressing 
the ultimate grounds on which Gotama would have vindicated 
the authority of the Vedas against its gainsayers. It is suffi- 
cient to consider the aphorism as merely indicating the proper 
basis on which the great logician thought that the infallibility 
of the Vedas should be defended, in opposition to those who 
maintained that their authority was derived from their eternity. 
Gotama denied this eternity, and deduced the infallibility of the 
Vedas from the infallibility of their author. In arguing with a 
disbeliever in the Vedas, he would have had to prove that they 
had really proceeded from an infallible author. 

II. The Sankhya. — The opinions of the author of the Sankhya 
aphorisms in regard to the authority of the Veda and the prin- 
ciples on which that authority depends, are contained in the 45th 
to the 51st aphorisms of the Fifth Book, which I extract with 
the comments of Vijnana Bhikshu. 43 45. ' Na nityatvam Veda- 
ndm hdryatva-sruteh' || ' Sa tapo 'tapyata tasmat tapas tepdnat 
trayo vedd ajayanta' ity ddi-sruter vedandm na nityatvam ity 
arthah \ veda-nityatd-vdkydni cha sajatlydniipurvl-pramhanuch- 
chheda-parani \ Tarhi kirn paurusheyd veddh \ na itydha || 46. 
' Na paurusheyatvam tatkartuh purushasya abhdvdt' || isvara- 
pratisheddd iti seshah \ sugamam \ aparah karttd bhavatv ity 
dkanxdyarn aha || 47. ' Muktdmuktayor ayoyyatvat' \\ Jlvan- 
mukta-dhurino Yishnur visuddha-sattvatayd niratisaya-sarvajno 
'pi vitardgatvat sahasra-sdkha-veda-nirmdndyogyak \ amuktas 
tv asarvaj-Hatvdd eva ayogya ity arthah \ nanv evam apaurushe- 
yatvdd nityatvam eva agatam \ tatrdha || 48. ' Na apaurushc- 
yatvdd nityatvam ankurddi-vat' || Spashtam \ nanv ankurddishv 
api karyatvena ghatadi-vat paurusheyatvam anumeyam \ tatrd- 
ha || 49. ' Teshdm api tadyoge drishta-bddhddi-prasaktih' || Yat 
paurusheyam taeh chharlra-janyam iti vydptir loke drishtd tasyd 

43 Dr. Ballantyne's edition of the Sankhya Sutras doea not, I believe, as yet 
extend beyond the fourth book. 



82 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

badhddir evam sati syad iti arthah \ nanv Adi-purushochckari- 
tatvdd Veda api paurusheyd eva ity aha || 50. ' Yasmin adrishte 
'pi krita-buddhir upajdyate tat paurusheyam' || Drishte iva 
adrishte 'pi yasmin vastuni krita-buddhir buddhi-purvakatva- 
buddhir jdyate tad eva paurusheyam iti vyavahriyate ity arthali \ 
etad uktam bkavati \ na puruskochcharitatd-matrena paurushe- 
yatvajn 'svdsa-prasodsayoli sushupti-kdllnayoh paurusheyatva- 
vyavahdrdbhdvdt kintu buddhi-purvakatvena \ Yedastu niksvasa- 
vad eva adrishta-vasdd abuddhi-purvaka eva Svayambhuvo Sotta- 
s' at svayam bhavanti \ ato na te paurusheyah \ tatha cka srutih 
' tasyaitasya mahato bhutasya nisvasitam etad yad rigvedo ity 
adir' iti \ nanv evam yarthartha-vakydrtha-jnandpurvakatvdt 
suka-vakyasyeva vedanam api prdmanyam na sydt tatraha || 51 . 
' Nija-sakty-abhvyakteh svatah prdmanyam' \\ Vedanam nija svd- 
bhdvikl yd yathartha-jnana-janana-saktis tasyd mantrdyurveda- 
ddv abhivyakter upalambhdd akhila-vedandm eva svata eva pra- 
mdnyafn. siddhyati na vaktri-yatkartka-jn'ana-mulakatvddind ity 
arthah \ tatha cha Nydya-sutram \ ' mantrdyurveda-prdmdnya- 
vachcha tat-prdmdnyam' iti. 

" Sutra 45. ' Eternity cannot be predicated of the Vedas, 
since various texts in these books themselves declare them to 
have been produced.' The sense is this, that the Vedas are 
proved not to be eternal by such texts as the following : ' He 
performed austerity; from him, when he had thus performed 
austerity, the three Vedas were produced.' [See above, p. 3. J 
Those other texts which assert the eternity [or perpetuity] of the 
Vedas refer merely to the unbroken continuity of the stream of 
homogeneous succession [or tradition]. Are the Vedas, then, de- 
rived from any personal author? ' No,' he replies in Sutra 46. 
' The Vedas are not derived from any personal author (pauru- 
sheya), since there is no person (purusha) to make them.' We 
must supply the words, ' since an Isvara (God) is denied.' The' 
sense is easy. In answer to the supposition that there may be 
some other maker, he remarks, Sutra 47, ' No ; for there could be 
no fit maker, either liberated or unliberated.' Vishnu, the chief of 



Sect, viii.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 83 

all those beings who are liberated even while they live, 44 though, 
from the pure goodness of his nature, he is possessed of perfect 
omniscience, would, owing to his impassiveness, be unfit to com- 
pose the Veda consisting of a thousand s'akhas (branches), while 
any unliberated person would be unfit for the task from want of 
omniscience. (See Sankara's comment on Brahma Sutras i. 
1, 3 ; above, p. 52, note.) But does not, then, the eternity of the 
Vedas follow from their having no personal author? He replies 
(48), ' Their eternity does not result from their having no per- 
sonal author, since they resemble a bud, which sprouts from 
some root.' This is clear. But is it not to be inferred that 
buds, etc., since they are products, have, like jars, etc., some 
personal maker? He replies (49), ' If such a supposition were 
applied to the Vedas, it would there also be exposed to the 
objection that it is contrary to what we see, etc' Whatever is 
derived from a personal author is produced from a body ; this is 
a rule which is seen to hold invariably. But if we assert that 
the Vedas are derived from a personal author, we contradict the 
rule in question, [since the Vedas evidently did not spring from 
any one's body].' But are not the Vedas, too, derived from a 
person, seeing that they were uttered by the primeval Purusha ? 
He answers (50), ' That object only (even though it be an 
invisible one), which its maker is conscious of having made, can 
be said to be derived from [or made by] a person.' It is only 
those objects, be they seen or unseen, in regard to which a 
consciousness of design arises, that are ordinarily spoken of 
as made by a person. The sense is, that it is not mere utter- 
ance by a person which constitutes formation .by that person 
(since we do not ordinarily speak of the inspirations and expira- 
tions of any person during the time of sleep, as heing formed by 
that person), but only utterance with conscious design. But 
the Vedas proceed of their own accord from Svayambhu (the self- 
existent), like an expiration, by the force of adrishta (destiny), 
without any consciousness on his part. Hence they are not 
" See Colebroote's Essays, i. 369, or p. 241 of Williams and Nbrgate's ed. 



84 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

formed by any person. Thus the Veda says, ' This Kig-veda, 
etc., is the breath of this great Being, etc' [See above, p. 7.] 
But will not the Vedas, also, be in this way destitute of autho- 
rity, like the chatter of a parrot, since they did not result from 
any knowledge of the correct meaning of the words of which 
they are made up ? In reference to this, he says (51), ' The 
Vedas have a self-proving authority, since their inherent power 
is manifested.' The self-evidencing authority of the entire Vedas 
is established by the manifestation, or perception, in certain 
portions of them, viz., the ' spells ' and the ' medical treatise,' 
etc., of that inherent power which they (the Vedas) possess of 
generating correct knowledge, and does not depend on its being 
shown that they (the Vedas) are founded on correct knowledge 
in their utterer, or on any other ground of that sort. And to 
this effect is the Nyaya Sutra, that ' its authority is like the 
authority of the spells and the medical treatise.'" (See above, 
p. 80.) 

In the 57th and following Sutras of the same book, Kapila 
denies that sound has the character of sphota, or that it is 
eternal. 57. ' Pratityapratitibhydih na sphotdtmakah sabdah' '|| 
Pratyeka-varnebhyo 'tiriktam kalasa ityddi-rupam akhandam 
eka-padam sphota iti yogair abhyupagamyate \ kambu-grlvddy- 
avayavebhyo 'tirikto ghatddy-avayavwa \ sa cha sabda-visesho 
paddkhyo 'rtha-sphutlkarandt sphota ity uchyate \ sa sabdo 
'prdmanikah \ kutah \ pratltyapratitibhydm \ sa sabdah Mm 
pratiyate na va \ adye yena varna-samudayena anupurvl-visesha- 
visishtena so 'bkivyajyate tasya eva artha-pratyayakatvam astu \ 
Mm antargaduna tena \ antye tv ajfiata-spkotasga nasty artha- 
pratydyana-saktir iti vyartha sphota-kalpana ity arthah \ Pur- 
vam vedanam nityatvam pratisMddham \ idanlffi varna-nityat- 
vam api pratishedati || 58. Na sabda-nityatvaih karyata-pra- 
titeh' || Sa eva ayaih ga-kara ityddi-pratyabMj'hd-balad varna- 
nityatvaih na yuktam \ utpanno ga-kara ityadi-pratyayend anit- 
yatva-siddher ity arthah \ pratyabhijfia tajjatlyata-vis/iayim \ 
anyathd ghatdder api pratyabhijfiayd nityatdpatter iti \ sankate || 



sect, vni.] OP THE VEDAS'HELD BY INDIAN AUTHOHS. 85 

59. ' Purva-siddha-sattvasya abhivyaktir dipeneva ghatasya' || 
Nanu piirva-siddha-sattdkasyaiva sabdasya dhvanyddibhir yd 
'bkivyaktis tanmdtram utpattih pratlter vishayah \ abkivyaktau 
drishtanto dipeneva ghatasya iti \ Pariharati || 60. ' Satkdryya- 
siddhdntas chet siddha-sddhanam' [| Abhivyaktir yady andgatd- 
vasthd-tydgena varttamdndvasthd-ldbha ity uchyate tadd sat- 
kdryya-siddhdntah \ tadrisa-nityatvaTicka sarva-kdryanam eva 
iti siddha-sddhanam ity arthah \ yadi cha varttamanataya sata 
eva jRana-mdtra-rupiny abhivyaktir uchyate tadd ghatadlndm 
apt nityatvdpattir ityddi. " ' Sound has not the character of 
sphota, from the dilemma that it must be either apparent or not 
apparent.' A modification of sound called sphota, single, indi- 
visible, distinct from individual letters, existing in the form of 
words like kala'sa (jar), distinguished also from parts of words 
like kambu-griva (striped-neck), and forming a whole like the 
word ghata (jar), is assumed by the Yogas. And this species 
of sound called a word ipada) is designated sphota from its 
manifesting a meaning. But the existence of this form of sound 
is destitute of proof. Why ? ' From the dilemma that it must 
be either apparent or not apparent.' Does this form of sound 
appear or not ? If it appears, then let the power of disclosing 
a meaning [which is ascribed by our opponents to sphota'] be 
regarded as belonging to that collection of letters, arranged in a 
particular order, by which the supposed sphota is manifested. 
What necessity is there for that superfluous sphota ? If, on the 
contrary, it does not appear, then that unknown sphota can have 
no power of disclosing a meaning, and consequently it is useless 
to suppose that any such thing as sphota exists. 

" The eternity of the Vedas had been already denied. He 
now denies the eternity of letters also. 58. ' Sound is not 
eternal, since it is clear that it is a production.' The meaning 
is, that it is not reasonable to infer on the strength of the recog- 
nition of the letter G as the same that we knew before (see 
Mimansa Aphorisms i. 13 ; above, p. 56), that letters are 
eternal ; since it is clear that Gr and other letters are produced, 



86 



OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. 



and therefore cannot be eternal. The recognition of these letters 
has reference to their being of the same kind as we have per- 
ceived before ; since otherwise we are landed in the absurdity 
that, because we recognize a jar or any other such object to be 
the same, it must therefore be eternal. 

" He expresses a doubt : 59. ' What we hear may be merely 
the manifestation of a previously existing thing, as a jar is mani- 
fested (not created) by the light of a lamp.' (Bee Mlmansa 
Aphorisms, i. 12, 13 ; above, p. 56.) Is it not the fact that it 
is merely the manifestation of language by sounds, etc., which 
begins to exist as an object of perception? An illustration 
of such manifestation is that of a jar by means of a lamp. 

" He repels this doubt : 60. ' If the axiom that an effect 
exists in its cause be here intended, this is merely proving what 
is already admitted.' If by manifestation is meant the relin- 
quishment by any substance of its previous undeveloped state, 45 
and the attainment of its present developed state, then we have 
merely the recognized principle of an effect virtually existing 
in its cause (see Sankhya Karika Aph. ix.) ; and as such 
eternity is truly predicable of all effects whatever, it is proving 
a thing already proved to assert it here. If, on the other hand, 
by manifestation be merely meant the perception of a thing 
actually existing, then we shall be involved in the absurdity of 
admitting that jars, etc., also are eternal, etc." 

Sect. IX. — Some further reasonings in support of the supernatural origin 
of the Veda, and distinction in point of authority between it and 
the Smrilis or non- Vedic Sdstras as stated by the Commentators on 
the Taittiriya Yajur-veda, the Purva Mlmansa, Jfanu, and the 
Vedanta, etc. ; difference of opinion between Sanhara and Madhusu- 
iana regarding the orthodoxy of Kapila and Kan&da. 

I. — The Nyaya-mdla-vistara. — I shall begin this section with 
an extract on the supernatural origin of the Veda from the Nyaya- 
mala-vistara, a summary of the doctrines of the Purva Mlmansa of 

45 Literally, " the state of being not yet arrived at something" [?] 



sect, ix.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHOES. 87 

Jaiinini, by Madhava Achftryya, the brother of Sayana Acharyya 
(see above, p. 40). Nyaya-mala-vistara i. 1, 25, 26 : Paurushe- 
yafh na va veda-vdkyam syat paurusheyata \ Kathakddi-sama- 
Jchyanad vakyatvackchanya-vakya-vat \ Samakhya ' dhyapakat- 
vena vdkyatvantu parahatam \ Tatkartranupalambhena syat tato 
'paurusheyata || Kdthakam, Kauthumam 2'aittinyakam ityadi 
samakhya tattad-veda-vishaya loke drishta \ taddhita-pratyayas- 
cha tena proktam ity asminn arthe varttate \ tatha sati Yyasena 
proktam Vaiyasikam Bharatam ity addv iva paurusheyatvam pra- 
tlyate \ kificha \ vimatam, veda-vakyam paurusheyam \ vdkyatvat \ 
Kalidasadi-vakya-vaditiprapte brumah \ ad/iyayana-sampraddya- 
pravarttakatvena samakhya upapadyate \ Kalidasadi-grantheshu 
tat-sargavasane karttara upalabhyante \ tatha vedasyapi pau- 
rusheyatve tat-karttd upalabhyeta na cha upalabhyate \ ato vak- 
yatva-hetuh pratikula-tarka-parahatah \ tasmad apaurusheyo 
vedah \ tatha sati purusha-buddhi-kritasya apramanyasya ana- 
sankaniyatvad vidhivakyasya dharme pramanyam susthitam. iB 
" [Verses] ' Is the word of the Veda of human origin or 
not? It must be human, since (1) it bears the names of 
Kathaka, etc., and (2) has the characters of a sentence, like 
other sentences. No ; for (1) the names arose from parti- 
cular persons being teachers of the Vedas, and (2) the objec- 
tion that the Vedic precepts have the characters of common 
sentences is refuted by other considerations. For the Veda 
must be supernatural, since it has never been known to 
have had a maker.' [Comment] It is objected (1) that the 
names Kathaka, Kauthuma, Taittiriyaka, etc., are applied in 
common usage to the different Vedas ; and the taddhita affix 
by which these appellations are formed, denotes 'uttered by' 
[Katha, Kuthumi, and Tittiri] (comp. Panini iv. 3, 101). Such 
being the case, it is clear that these parts of the Vedas are of 
human origin [or derived from a person, purusha~], like the 

46 I have extracted this passage from Prof. Goldstucker's unpublished text of the 
Nyaya-mala-vistara ; and I am indebted to the same profound scholar for some 
assistance in mv translation of it. 



88 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

Mahabharata, which is styled Yaiydsika, because it was uttered 
by Vyasa, etc. And farther (2), the sentences of the Veda, 
being subject to different interpretations, are of human origin, 
because they have the properties of a sentence, like the sentences 
of Kalidasa, etc. To this we reply (1), the name applied to any 
Veda originates in the fact that the sage whose name it bears, 
was an agent in transmitting the study of that Veda. But (2) 
in the books of Kalidasa and others, the authors are discoverable 
[from the notices] at the end of each section. Now if the Veda 
also were of human composition, the author of it would, in like 
manner, be discoverable ; but such is not the case. Hence, the 
objection that the Veda partakes of the nature of common sen- 
tences is refuted by opposing considerations. Consequently the 
Veda is superhuman. And such being the case, as we cannot 
suspect in it any fallibility occasioned by the defects of human 
reason, the preceptive texts of the Veda are demonstrated to be 
authoritative in questions of duty." 

II. — Ycdarthaprakasa. — The verses just quoted are repeated 
in the Vedartha-prakasa of Madhava on the Taittiriya Sanhita 
(p. 26), with a various reading at the beginning of the third 
line, viz., ' samdkhyanam pravachanat' instead of ' samakhya 
' ' dhyapakatvena.' The comment by which the verses are ex- 
plained in the same work, is as follows : — Ydlmlklyani Vaiydsi- 
klyam ityadi-samakhyanad Ramayana-Bhdratddikani yatha 
paurusheyam tatha Kathakaih Kauthumam Taittirlyam ityadi- 
samakhyanad vedah paurusheyah \ kificha veda-vakyam pauru- 
sheyam vdkyatvat Kalidasadi-vakya-vad iti chet \ maivam \ sam- 
pradaya-pravrittya samakhyopapatteh \ Vahyatva-hetus tv anu- 
palabdhi-viruddha-kalatyayapadishtah \ Yatha Yyasa-Yal- 
mikl-prabhritayas tad-grantha-nirmanavasare kaischid upalab- 
dhah | anyair apy avichhinna-sampradayena upalabhyante \ na 
tatha veda-kartta purushah kasckid upalabdhah \ pratyuta ved- 
asya nityatvam sruti-smritibhyam purvam udahritam \ Para- 
matma tu veda-kartta 'pi na laukika-purushdh \ tasmat karttri- 
doshabhavdd nasty apramdnya-sanka. " It may be said (1) that 



sect, ix.] OP THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 89 

as the Kamayana, the Mahabharata, and other such books, are 
regarded as the works of men from the epithets Valmlkiya (com- 
posed by Valmiki), Vaiyasiklya (composed by Vyasa), etc., which 
they bear, so too the Veda must be of human origin, since it is 
called by the appellations of Kathaka, Kauthuma, and Taittirlya, 
etc. ; and further (2), that the word of the Veda must be human, 
because it possesses the properties of a common sentence. But 
these objections are unfounded, for (1) the appellation of any 
part of the Veda is derived from some sage who was an agent in 
transmitting the study of it; and (2) the objection about the 
Veda having the properties of a common sentence is opposed to 
the fact that no author was ever perceived, and is refuted by the 
length of time [during which the Veda has been received as 
superhuman]. For though Vyasa and Valmiki, etc., when em- 
ployed in the composition of their respective works, were per- 
ceived by some persons to be so engaged, and are known by 
others also [in after ages] to be the authors, from the existence 
of an unbroken tradition to that effect; — no human author of 
the Veda has ever been perceived. On the contrary, we have 
formerly shown that the eternity of the Veda is declared both 
by itself and by the Smriti. And even if the supreme Spirit 
be the maker of it ; still he is not a mundane person, and con- 
sequently, as no defect exists in the maker, there is no reason 
to suspect fallibility in his work." 

I do not know how it has happened that these commentators 
have taken no notice of an obvious objection which may be 
raised to the validity of this reasoning, viz., that the hymns of 
the Kile and other Vedas are all set down in the Anukramanis, 
or indices to those works, as being uttered by particular rishis ; 
the rishis being, in fact, there denned as those whose words the 
hymns were — yasya vakyaih sa riskih. (See Colebrooke's Misc. 
Ess. i. 26, or p. 12 of W. and N.'s ed.) Though, however, this 
objection has not been noticed in any of the preceding pas- 
sages, an answer has been provided to it in the well-known 
assertion of the orthodox Indian writers that the rishis did not 



90 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

compose, but only saw the hymns and other parts of the Vedas, 
which had in reality pre-existed from eternity. 

Thus, in the Vedartha-prakasa on the Taittirlya Sanhita, p. 11, 
it is said : Atlndriyartha-drashtara ris/iayah \ Tesham veda- 
drashtritvam smaryate \ Yugante 'ntarhitan" Vedan setihasan 
maharshayah \ Lebhire tapasa purvam anujftatah svayambkuva. 
(Mahabharata, Santiparva, verse 7,660. See above, p. 73.) 
' The rishis were seers of things beyond the reach of the bodily 
senses. The fact of their seeing the Vedas is recorded in the 
Smriti : ' The great rishis, empowered by Svayambbu, formerly 
obtained, through devotion, the Vedas and the Itihasas which had 
disappeared at the end of the [preceding] Yuga.'" 

So, too, Manu (as already quoted, Part First, p. 142) says, 
Prajapatir idam sastram tapasaivasrijat prabkuh \ Tathaiva 
vedan rishayas tapasa pratipedire. " Prajapati created this 
Sastra (the Institutes of Manu) by devotion ; and by devotion 
the rishis obtained the Vedas." 

See also the passages from the Nirukta in pp. 174 ff. and 205 
of the Second Part of this work. 

A distinct line of demarcation is generally drawn by the more 
critical Indian writers between the Vedas and all other classes of 
Indian Sastras, however designated. The former are considered 
to be infallible, and to possess an independent authority ; while 
the latter derive their authority from the Veda alone, and (in 
theory) are infallible guides only in so far as they coincide with 
the Veda. This will be clear from the following passages. 

I. — Nyaya-mala-vistara. — The first text which I will adduce 
has been already quoted in the Second Part of this work, but I 
shall repeat it here for facility of reference. It is from the 
Nyaya-mala-vistara i. 3, 24. Baudhayanapastambasvalayana- 
katyayanadi-namankitdh kalpasutradi-grantha mgama-nirukta- 
shadanga-grantha Manv-adi-smritayas cha apaurusheyah \ dhar- 
ma-buddhi-janakatvat \ veda-vat \ na cha mula-pramana-sapex- 

47 The text of the Biblioth. Ind. reads tarfii tan. I have followed the M. Bh., 
which evidently gives the true reading. 



sect, ix.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 91 

atvena veda-vaishamyam iti sankanlyam \ utpanndyd buddheh 
svatah-prdmdnydngikdrena nirapexatvdt || Maivam \ uktanu- 
mdnasya kdldtyaydpadishtatvdt \ Baudhdyana-sutram Apas- 
tamba-sutram ity evam purusha-namna te granthd uchyante \ na 
cha Kdthakadi-samdkhya-vat pravackana-nimittatvani yuktam | 
tad-grantha-nirmana-kale taddnintanaik kaischid upalabdhat- 
vdt | tachcha avichhinna-pdramparyena anuvarttate \ tatah Kdli- 
ddsddi-grantha-vat paurusheydli \ tathapi veda-mulatvdt pramd- 
nam || . . . kalpasya vedatvaln, nddydpi siddham | kintu prayat- 
nena sddhanlyam \ na cha tat sddhayitum sakyam [paurushe- 
yatvasya samdkhyaya tat-karttur upalambhena cha sddhitatvdt. 
" It may be said that the Kalpa Sutras and other works desig- 
nated by the names of Baudhayana, Apastamba, AsValayana, 
Katyayana, etc., and the Nigama, Nirukta, and six Vedangas, 
together with the Smritis of Manu and others, are superhuman, 
because they impart a knowledge of duty, as the Vedas do ; and 
that they should not be suspected of inferiority to the Vedas on 
the ground that they depend upon a primary authority, since 
the knowledge which they impart is independent, because it is 
admitted to be self-evidencing. But this view is incorrect, for 
the inference in question is refuted by the length of time [during 
which these works have been recognized as human composi- 
tions]. The books in question are called by the names of men, 
as ' the Sutras of Baudhayana,' ' the Sutras of Apastamba ; ' and 
these designations cannot correctly be said to originate in the 
oral transmission of the works by those teachers whose names' 
they bear (as is really the case in regard to the Kathaka and 
other parts of the Veda), for it was known to some of the contem- 
poraries of these men, at the time when they were composing 
these Sutras, Smritis, etc., that they were so engaged ; and this. 
knowledge has descended by unbroken tradition. Hence the 
books in question are, like the works of Kalidasa and others, of 
human origin. Nevertheless, they possess authority, as being 
founded on the Veda." . . . The following additional remarks 
represent the opinion of the Guru (Prabhakara) on the same' 



92 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

question : " It is not yet proved that the Kalpa Sutras possess 
the character of the Veda ; it would require great labour to 
prove it; and, in fact, it is impossible to prove it. For the * 
human origin of these books is established by the names which 
they bear, and by their being observed to have had authors." 

II. — Kulluka. — The same thing is admitted by Kulluka, the 
commentator on Manu, who (in his remarks on i. 1) thus defines 
the relation of his author to the Vedas : Paurusheyatve 'pi Manu- 
vakyanam avigita-mafiajana-parigrahat srutyupagrahdchcha 
veda-mulakataya pramanyam \ Tatha cha chhandogya-brahmane 
sruyate ' Manur vai yat kifichid avadat tad bheshajam bheshaja- 
tayah ' iti \ Vrihaspatir apy aha ' Vedarthopanibandhritvat pra- 
dhanyam hi Manoh smritam \ Manvartha-viparita tu ya smritili 
sa na sasyate \ Tavack chhastrani sobhante tarka-vyakarandni 
cha | Dharmarthar-moxopadeshta Manur yavanna drisyate' \ 
Mahabkarate py uktam ' Puranam Manavo dharmah sango 
vedas chikitsitam \ Ajfia-siddhani chatvari na hantavyani hetu- 
bhih' | virodki Bauddkadi-tarkair na hantavyani \ anukulastu 
mimamsadi-tarkah pravarttanlya eva \ ata eva vaxyati ' arsham 
dharmopadesaficha veda-sastravirodhina \ yas tarkenanusan- 
dhatte sa dharmaih veda netarah' iti. " Though the Institutes 
of Manu had a human author, still, as their reception by illus- 
trious men of unimpeached [orthodoxy], and their conformity to 
the Veda, prove that they are based upon the latter, they are 
authoritative. Accordingly it is recorded in the Ohhandogya 
Brahmana that, ' Whatever Manu said is a medicine of remedial 
efficacy.' And Vrihaspati says : ' As Manu expounds the sense of 
the Veda, he is traditionally celebrated as pre-eminent. But 
that smriti which is contrary to the sense of Manu, is not ap- 
proved. Books [on law ?], logic, and grammar are all eclipsed 
as soon as Manu, our instructor in duty, and in the means of 
attaining both earthly prosperity, and final liberation, is beheld.' 
And it is said in the Mahabharata : ' The Puranas, the institutes 
of Manu, the Veda with its appendages, and treatises on medi- 
cine, these four, which are established by [divine] command, 



sect, ix.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 93 

are not to be assailed by rationalistic arguments ; ' that is, they 
are not to be attacked by hostile reasonings, such as those of 
the Bauddhas. But friendly arguments, such as those of the 
Mimansakas, are to be employed. And accordingly, we shall 
find below (Manu xii. 106) that he says, ' the man who inves- 
tigates the injunctions of the rishis, and the rules of duty by 
reasoning which is agreeable to the Veda, he, and he only, is 
acquainted with duty.' " (See above, p. 13, note 10.) 

III. — Nyaya-mala-vistara. — But the precepts of the smriti are 
not considered useless or superfluous. On the contrary, an 
authority is attributed to them corresponding to the antiquity, 
elevated position, and sacred character of their authors. Thus 
the author of the Nyaya-mala-vistara says (i. 3, 3) : Vimata 
smritir veda-mula \ vaidika-manvadi-pranlta-smrititvat \ upana- 
yanddhyayanadi-smriti^oat \ na cka vaiyarthyam sankamyam \ 
asmad-adlnaih pratyaxesku paroxeshu nana vedeshu viprakvr- 
nasya anushtheyarthasya ekatra sanxipyamanatvat. "The 
variously understood smriti is founded on the Veda, because the 
traditions, such as those regarding investiture, study, etc., have 
been compiled by Vedic men, such as Manu and others. Nor is 
it to be surmised that the smriti is useless, since it throws 
together in a condensed form a variety of injunctions regarding 
matters to be observed, which are scattered through different 
Vedas, both such as are visible and such as are invisible to us." 
(This last expression appears to refer to the supposition that 
some parts of the Veda which Manu and others had before them 
when compiling their own works, have now been lost. See 
Midler's Anc. Sans. Lit. pp. 103-107.) 

Accordingly the smritis have an authority superior to that 
founded merely on the practice of learned men of modern date 
derived from their own private study of the Vedas. Thus the 
Nyaya-mala-vistara says (i. 3, 19) : Na hi idanlntanali sishtah 
Manv-adi-vad desa-kala-viprakrishta'fii vedam dwya-jfianena sax- 
atkarttum saknuvanti yena sishtacharo mula-vedam anumapayet. 
" For learned men of the present day do not possess the power, 



94 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. .. 

which Manu and others had, of placing before their minds, 
through divine knowledge, the Veda which was far removed 
from them both in place and time, so as to justify us in regard- 
ing the practice of these moderns as a sufficient ground for 
inferring the existence of a Veda as its foundation." 

But as learned men, in any particular country or at any par- 
ticular time, may be able to consult some smriti which authorizes 
their particular observances, " these observances may serve as 
ground for inferring the existence of some smriti on which they 
are founded, but not for inferring a Veda: (tasmach chhishta- 
chdrena smritir anumatum sakyate na tu srutik). But a smriti 
which is thus merely inferred to exist is set aside by any visibly 
existing smriti of contrary import : {anumitd cha smritir virud- 
dhayd pratyaxayd smrityd bddhyate)." 

IV. — Sankara. — The above passages, by assuming that Manu 
and other eminent sages had the power of consulting Vedic texts 
now no longer accessible, make them practically almost infal- 
lible. The same view is taken by Sankara Acharyya. (See, 
however, the passage quoted from him above, in note 31, p. 45.) 
In answer to the remark of a Mimansaka objector stated in the 
comment on the Brahma Sutras i. 3, 32, that the Itihasas and 
Puranas, being of human origin, have only a derived and 
secondary authority (' itihasa-puranam api pauruskeyatvdt 
pramdnantara-mulatdm akanxale'), Sankara argues in his 
explanation of the following Sutra (i. 3, 33) that they have an 
independent foundation : Itihasa-puranam api vyakhyatena mar- 
gena sarnbhavad mantrarthavada-mulatvat prabhavati devata- 
vigrahadi prapafickayitum | pratyaxa-mulam api sambhavati \ 
bhavati hi asmakam apratyaxam api chirantananam pratyaxam \ 
tathd cha Vyasadayo devatdbhih pratyaxam vyavaharantlti smar- 
yate \ yastu bruyad idanlntandnam iva purvesham api nasti 
deoadibhir vyavakarttum sdmarthyam iti sa jagad-vaichitryam 
pratishedet \ idanlm iva cha na anyada 'pi sarvabhaumali xatriyo 
'stiti bruydt \ tatascha rdjasuyddi-chodana uparundhyat \ ida- 
nlm ioa cha halwritare 'py avyavasthita-prayan varnasrama-dhar- 



sect, ix.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 95 

man pratijdnlta tatascha vyavasthd-vidhdyi sdstram anarthakam 
kurydt \ Tasmdd dharmotkarsha-vasdt chirantand devadibhili 
pratyaxafh vyajahrur iti slishyate \ api clia smaranti ' svadhya- 
yddishta-devatd-samprayoga' ityddi \yogo 'py animddy-aisvarya- 
prdpti-phalakah smaryamdno na sakyate sdhasa-mdtrena prat- 
yakhyatum \ srutischa yoga-mdkdtmyam pratydkhydpayati \ 
' prithvy-ap-tejo-'nila-khe samutthite panchdtmake yoga-gune 
pravritte \ net tasyo rogo na jara na mrityuh prdptasya yogdd 
nimiskaffi, sariram' iti \ rishlnam api mantra-brdhmana-darsi- 
ndfh samarthyam na asmadiyena sdmarthyena upamdtum yuk- 
tam | tasmat samulam itihdsa-purdnam. " The Itihasas and 
Puranas al30, having originated in the way which has been 
explained, have power, as being based on the hymns and artha^ 
vadas, to evince the corporeality, etc., of the gods. It is also 
reasonable to suppose that they are founded upon intuition. For 
there were things palpable through intuition to the ancients, 
though they are not thus palpable to us. 48 Accordingly it is 
recorded in the smriti that Vyasa and others associated face to 
face with the gods. 49 Any man who should maintain that the 
ancients, like his own contemporaries, were destitute of power 
thus to associate with superhuman beings like the gods, would 
be denying all variety in the history of the world. Such a person 
would in like manner affirm that as now there is do kshattriya 
possessed of universal sovereignty, so neither was there ever 
such a prince; and would thus impugn the scriptural injunc- 

48 See Part Second, p. 174; see also Prof. Mtiller's article on the Vais'eshika 
Philosophy in the Journal of the German Oriental Society, vol. vii. p. 311, where 
it is remarked that the Vais'esh'ikas, like Kapila, include the intuition of rishis 
under the category of pratyaxa (arsham jnanam sutra-krita prithale na laxitam yogi- 
pratyaxe 'ntarbhavat). 

49 Compare Hesiod, fragment 119 : ftival yvtp r6re Suites iaav, \vvaX tie 66aKOi 
ciBavdroiffi Qeoitrt KaraStrfrrois r'avflptSirois. 

" Immortal gods, not unfamiliar, then 
Their feasts and converse shared with mortal men." 
And Herodotus writes of the Egyptians, ii. 144 : Tb Se -Kpfaepov twv hv%pav 
roiraiv fleous iivai -robs eV 'AiyiTrrqi &px<">Ta.s, oiKeovras a/ia rolai avSpdmouri " And 
[the Egyptian priests said] that before these men the gods w-ere the rulers in Egypt, 
dwelling together with men." 



96 



OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 



tions regarding the rdjasuya sacrifice [which was only to be 
performed by a universal monarch]. He would also allege that 
in former times, as now, the duties of castes and of orders were 
scarcely at all in force, and would thus render fruitless the scrip- 
tures by which the rules relating to them are ordained. By 
these considerations it is intimated that the ancients, in conse- 
quence of their eminent holiness, were admitted to associate 
immediately with the gods, etc. And the smriti speaks of ' con- 
tact with the gods made known by sacred study,' etc. Again, 
when the smriti talks of devotion resulting in the acquisition of 
superhuman faculties such as minuteness, this assertion cannot 
have been made through mere audacity [i.e., it must have had 
some good foundation]. The Veda, too, declares the immense 
power of devotion in these words : ' When the fivefold influence 
of devotion, arising in the elements of earth, water, fire, air, and 
ether, has begun to act, and a man has attained an ethereal [?] 
body, he is no longer affected by disease, decay, or death.' And 
it is unreasonable to estimate by the analogy of our own power, 
the power of the rishis, the seers of the Vedic hymns and 
brahmanas. Wherefore the Itihasas and Puranas have a foun- 
dation.'" 

Sankara does not, however, treat all the ancients in this way. 
Like many other systematizers, he finds no difficulty in rejecting 
or explaining away any authorities which come into conflict with 
his views. It is thus that he deals with Kapila, the author of 
the Sankhya. That eminent sage is thus spoken of in the 
Svetasvatara Upanishad v. 2 : Yo yonim yonim adhitishthaty eko 
visvani rupani yonischa sarvah | risJiim prasutam Kapilam yas 
tarn agre jftanair bibhartti jayamaftcha pa'syet. " The god who 
alone superintends every source of production and all forms, 
who formerly nourished with various knowledge his son the 
rishi Kapila, and beheld him at his birth." 60 

60 See S'ankara's commentary on this passage in Bibl. Ind. vii. 351, and Dr. Roer's 
translation, p. 62, with the note ; also Dr. Hall's note in pp. 18 and 19 of the preface 
to his edition of the Sankhya Pravachana Bhashya, in the Bibl. Ind. 



sect, ix.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 97 

In Ms comment on the Brahma Sutras ii. 1, 1, Sankara 
remarks on this passage of the Upanishad as follows :— Yd tu 
srutih KapUasya jfidnatisayam darsayantl pradarsitd na tayd 
sruti-viruddham api Kapilam matafii sraddhatum sakyam Kapi- 
lam iti sruti-sdmdnya mdtratvdd anyasya cha KapUasya sagara- 
putrdndm prataptur Ydsiideva-namnah smaranat \ anydrtha- 
darsanasya cha prdpti-rahitasya asddhakatvdt \ Bhavati cha 
any a Manor mahatyam prakhydpayantl srutir ' yad vai kificha 
Manur avadat tad bheshajam' iti \ Manund cha ' sarva-bhuteshu 
chatmdnafii sarva-bhutdni chdtmani \ samam pasyann dtrna-yaji 
svdrdjyam adhigachchhati' iti sarxdtmatva-darsanam prasanisatd 
Kapilam mataffi nindyate iti gamyate \ Kapilo hi na sarvdtmatva- 
darsanam anumanyate dtma-bhedabhyupagamdt | . . . . atascha 
dtma-bheda-kalpanayd 'pi KapUasya tantrasya reda-riruddhat- 
va?n vedanusdri-Manu-vachana-virudhatvan'cha na kevalat/i sva- 
tantra-prakriti-parikalpanayd meti siddham \ " And the Vedic 
text which has heen pointed out, showing the pre-eminence of 
Kapila's knowledge, cannot be a warrant for believing the doc- 
trine of Kapila, though contrary to the Veda, since the word 
Kapila has, in this text, a general sense [applicable to others 
besides the author of the Sankhya], and another Kapila called 
Vasudeva, the consumer of Sagara's sons, also, is mentioned in 
the smriti ; and since a dars'ana of a different import, devoid of 
benefit [?], has no power of proving anything. There is, besides, 
another text of the Veda which sets forth the eminent dignity of 
Manu in these terms, ' Whatever Manu said is medicine.' And 
Manu, — when he employs the words, ' He who, with impartial 
eye, beholds himself in all beings, and all beings in himself, 
thus sacrificing his own personality, becomes identified with the 
self-refulgent Being;' and, by saying this, commends the tenet 
that everything is one with the supreme Spirit— must be under- 
stood as censuring Kapila's doctrine. For Kapila does not 
assent to the identity of Brahma and the universe, for we know 

that he holds a diversity of souls." (After quoting one 

passage from the Mahabharata, and another from the Veda, to 

7 



98 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

prove that Kapila is wrong, Sankara proceeds) : " Hence it is 
proved that Kapila's system is at variance with the Veda and 
with the words of Manu, who follows the Veda, not only in sup- 
posing an independent Prakriti (nature), but also in supposing a 
diversity of souls." 

IV.— See also Sankara' s commentary on the Taittirlya Upani- 
shad, Bib. Ind. vii. pp. 136, 137, where he says : Kdpila-kdndd- 
adi-tarka-sastra-virodha iti chet \ na \ teshdm muldbhdve veda- 
virodhe cha bhrdntyopapatteh \ " If it be objected that this is 
contrary to the rationalistic doctrines of Kapila and Kanada 
[and therefore wrong], I answer no, since these doctrines are 
proved to be erroneous, as having no foundation, and as being 
in opposition to the Veda." 

V. — His remarks on a passage of the Prasna Upanishad are as 
follows, and afford a curious specimen of the contemptuous man- 
ner in which this orthodox Vedantist treats the heretical Sankhyas, 
etc. (Pras'naUp. vi. 4 ; Bib. Ind. viii. 244) : — Sdnkhydstu avidyd- 
'dkydropitam eva purushe karttritvaM kriyd-Iidrakam pkalaticha 
iti kalpayitvd dgama-vdhyatvdt punas tatas trasyantah param- 
arthata eva bhoktritvam purushasya ichckhanti \ tattvantarancha 
pradhdnam purushat paramartha-vastu-bhutam eva kalpayanto 
'nya-tarkika-krita-budd/d-viskayah santo vikanyante | Tathd itare 
tarkikali sdnkhyair ity evam paraspara-viruddhartka-kalpanata 
amisharthina ivapranino 'nyonyam viruddhamana artha-darsit- 
vdt paramartka-tattvat tadduram eva apakrishyante \ atas tan- 
matam anadritya vedantartha-tattvam ekatva-darsanam prati 
adaravanto mumuxavah syur iti tdrldka-mate doska-darsanain 
kifichid uchyate 'smabhir na tu tarkika-tdtparyyena \ " The fol- 
lowers of the Sankhya maintain that the functions of action, 
causation, and the enjoyment of reward become erroneously 
attributed to the soul (purusha) in consequence of supervening 
ignorance ; but as this doctrine differs from that of Scripture, they 
become afraid of it, and seek to ascribe to the soul enjoyment in 
the proper sense. And imagining another principle distinct 
from soul, viz., Pradhana (or nature), which they regard as 



sect. ix.J OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 99 

substance in the proper sense, they become the objects of criti- 
cism by other rationalists, and are crushed. In consequence 
of these contradictory conceptions of the Sankhyasts, other free- 
thinkers again begin to quarrel with them like animals [dogs he 
would no doubt have liked to say] fighting for flesh ; and thus, 
from their having some selfish object [?] in view, they are all 
drawn away to a distance from the essential truth. Wherefore 
let men, disregarding their tenets, seek for final liberation by 
paying honour to the principles of the Vedantic doctrine, which 
maintains the unity of all being. We have thus pointed out 
something of the errors of the rationalists, but without any 
reference to the rationalists personally." 

VI. — In thus depreciating Kapila, Sankara is in direct opposi- 
tion to the Bhagavata Purana (which, however, is considered to 
be a work of later date 51 ), in which the author of the Sankhya is 
spoken of with the greatest reverence. Thus in Bhag. Pur. i. 
3, 10, he is described as the fifth incarnation of Vishnu. Pafi- 
chamah Kapilo nama siddhesah kala-viplutam \ provacMsuraye 
sankhyam tattva-grama-vinirnayam \ " In his fifth manifesta- 
tion, he [in the form of] Kapila, lord of saints, declared to Asuri 
the Sankhya which defines the collection of principles, and which 
had been lost through the lapse of time." 

VII. — And again, in Bhag. Pur. ix. 8, 12, 13, Kapila is made 
the subject of eulogy. A legend narrates that the sixty thousand 
sons of King Sagara, conceiving Kapila to be the robber of a 
horse which had been carried away from their sacrifice, advanced 
to slay him, when they were burnt up by fire issuing from his 
body. The author of the Purana, however, denies that this was 
in any degree owing to passion on the part of the sage : Na 
sadhu-vado muni-kopa-bharjita nripendra-putra iti sattva-dha- 
mani \ kathaM tamo rosha?nayam vibhwoyate jagat-pavitratmani 
Me rajo bhuvah \ yasyeritd sankhyamayl dridheha naur yaya 
mumuxus tarate duratyayam \ bhavarnavam mrityupatham vipas- 
chitah paratma-bhutasya katham prithangmatih \ " It is not an 

81 See Wilson's Vish, Pur. pref. pp. xxviii. ff. 



100 



OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 



assertion befitting' a good man to say that the king's sons were 
burnt up by the wrath of the sage : for how is it conceivable that 
the darkness {tamos) of anger should reside in the abode of good- 
ness (sattva) and sanctifier of the world ; or that the dust (rajas) 
of the earth should ascend into the sky ? How could that sage by 
whom the strong ship of the Sankhya was launched, on which 
the man seeking emancipation crosses the ocean of existence, 
hard to be traversed, and leading to death — how could he enter- 
tain the distinction of friend and foe [and so treat any one as 
an enemy] ? " 

It is not necessary for me to quote any further passages in 
praise of the author of the Sankhya. There is a great deal 
about this system in the Mahabharata, Santiparva, verses 11,037 ff. 
See Colebrooke's Essays i. 236 (p. 149 of W. and N.'s ed.) ; 
Wilson's Vishnu Purana, pref. pp. lix, lx, and text, pp. 9 ff. with 
notes; Bhagavata Purana iii. chapters 24-30; Weber's Ind. 
Stud, passim ; Dr. Koer's Introduction to Svetas'vatara Upani- 
shad, Bibl. Ind. xv. 35 ff. ; and Dr. Hall's Sankhya Pravachana 
Bhashya, Bibl. Ind. pref. pp. S, note, 18, note. 

We have thus seen that a distinct line of demarcation is drawn 
by the most accurate and critical of the Indian writers, between 
the sruti, which they define to be superhuman and independent, 
and the smriti, which they regard as of human origin, and 
dependent for its authority on its conformity with the sruti. 
Sankara, indeed, as we have also observed, goes very nearly so 
far as to assign an independent foundation to the smritis ; but 
he confines this distinction to such of these works as coincide 
in doctrine with the sruti or Veda, according to his own Vedantic 
interpretation of its principles, while all other speculators are 
denounced by him as heterodox. It is, however, clear from the 
Svetasvatara Upanishad, the Mahabharata, the Bhagavad Gita, 
the Vishnu, and the Bhagavata Puranas, etc., that the doctrines 
of the Sankhya must have been very prevalent in ancient times, 
and that Sankara, when he condemned them as erroneous, must 
have done so in the face of many powerful opponents. 



sect, ix.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 101 

It is not necessary for me here to inquire with any accuracy 
what the relation was in which the different philosophical sys- 
tems stood to each other in former ages. It may suffice to say 
that the more philosophical adherents of each — of the Vedanta, 
the Sankhya, the Nyaya, etc.— must, according to all appear- 
ance, have maintained their respective principles with the utmost 
earnestness and tenacity, and could not have admitted that any 
of the rival systems was superior to their own in any particular. " 
It is impossible to study the Sutras of the several schools, and 
come to any other conclusion. The more popular systems of 
the Puranas, on the other hand, blended various tenets of the 
different systems syncretically together. In modern times the 
superior orthodoxy of the Vedanta seems to be generally ad- 
mitted. But even those who hold this opinion refuse to follow 
the example of Sankara in denouncing the founders of the rival 
schools as heretical. On the contrary, they regard them all as 
inspired Munis, who, by adapting their doctrines to the capa- 
cities or tendencies of different students, have paved the way for 
the ultimate reception of the Vedantic system. Such is the 
view taken in the Prasthana-bheda of Madhusudana Sarasvatt, 
who thus writes (Weber's Indische Studien, i. 23) : SarveshMcha 
sanxepena trividha eva prasthana-bhedah \ tatra arambka-vada 
ekah | parinama-vado dvitlyah \ vivartta-vddas tritiyah \ parthi- 
vapya-taijasa-vdyaviyds chaturvidhah paramanavo dvyanukadi- 
kramena brahmanda-paryantam jagad arambhante \ asad eva 
karyyam karaka-vydparad utpadyate iti prathamas tarkikdndm 
mlmdmsakanattcha \ sattva-rajas-tamo-yunatmakam pradhanam 
eva mahad-ahankdradi-kramena jagad-dkdrena parinamate \ 
piirvam api suxma-rupena sad eva karyafii kara?ia-vydpdrena 
abhivyajyate iti dvitlyah paxah Sankhya- Yoga-Patafijala-Pd'su- 
patandm \ Brahmanah parinamo jagad iti Yaishnavdnam \ 
sva-prakasa-paramanandadvitiyam Brahma sva-mayd-vasad 
mithyaiva jagad-dkdrena kalpate iti tritiyah paxo Brahma- 
vddinam \ sarveshdm prasthdna-karttrlnam muninam vivartta- 
vada-paryavasdnena advitiyc Paramesvare eva pratipddy& 



102 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [oiiap. i. 

tatparyam \ na hi te munayo bhrantah sarvailiatvat tesham 
kintu vahir-vishaya-pravandnam dpatatah purusharthe praveso 
na sambhavati iti nastikya-varanaya taili prakara-bheddh pra- 
darsitah \ tatra tesham tatparyam abuddhvd veda-viruddhe py 
arthe tatparyam utprexamands tan-matam eva upddeyatvena 
grihiianto jana ndnd-patha-jusho bhavanti \ iti sarvam anavad- 
yam \ " The difference in principle between these various schools 
is, when briefly stated, three-fold. The first doctrine is that of 
a commencement of the world; the second is that of an evolu- 
tion ; the third is that of an illusion. The first theory, that of 
the logicians and Mimansakas, i3 this : atoms of four descrip- 
tions — earthy, aqueous, igneous, and atmospheric— beginning 
with compounds of two atoms, and ending in the egg of Brahma 
(the world), originate the universe : and effects previously non- 
existing, come into being from the action of a causer. The second 
theory, that of the Sankhyas, Yogas, Patanjalas, and Pasupatas, 
is that Pradhana (or Prakriti = nature), consisting of the three 
gimas (qualities), sattva, rajas, and tamos, is evolved, through the 
successive stages of ma/iat (intellect), and ahankara (conscious- 
ness), etc., in the form of the world; and that effects, which had 
previously existed in a subtile form, are [merely] manifested by 
the action of their cause. Another form of the theory of evolu- 
tion is that of the Vaishnavas [the Eamanujas], who hold the 
universe to be an evolution of Brahma. The third view, that of 
the Vedantists (Brahma-vadis) is, that Brahma, the self-resplen- 
dent, the supremely happy, and the one sole essence, assumes, un- 
really, the form of the world through the influence of his own 
illusion (Maya). 

The ultimate scope of all the Munis, authors of these different 
systems, is to support the theory of illusion, and their only de- 
sign is to establish the existence of one Supreme God, the sole 
essence; for these Munis could not be mistaken [as some of them 
must have been, if they were not all of one opinion, or, as those 
of them must have been who did not hold Vedantic principles], 
since they were omniscient. But as they saw that men, addicted 



sect, ix.] OP THE YEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 103 

to the pursuit of external objects, could not all at once penetrate 
into the highest truth, they held out to them a variety of theories, 
in order that they might not fall into atheism. Misunderstand- 
ing the object which the Munis thus had in view, and represent- 
ing that they even designed to propound doctrines contrary to 
the Vedas, men have come to regard the specific doctrines of these 
several schools with preference, and thus become adherents of a 
variety of systems. Thus all has been satisfactorily stated." 

The view here taken by Madhusudana of the ultimate coinci- 
dence in principle of all the different schools of Hindu philo- 
sophy, however mutually hostile in appearance, seems, as I have 
remarked, to be that which is commonly entertained by modern 
Pandits. (See Dr. Ballantyne's Synopsis of Science; advertise- 
ment, p. iv.) Thi3 system of compromise, however, is clearly a 
deviation from the older doctrine ; and it practically abolishes 
the distinction in point of authority between the Vedas and the 
smritis, Dars'anas, etc. For if the Munis, authors of the six 
Dars'anas, were omniscient and infallible, they must stand on 
the same level with the Vedas, which can be nothing more. 

To return, however, from this discussion regarding the hos- 
tility of Sankara to the adherents of the Sankhya and other 
rationalistic schools, and the opinions of later authors concern- 
ing the founders of those several systems. The distinction drawn 
by the Indian commentators quoted in this section between the 
superhuman Veda and its human appendages, the Kalpa- siltra3, 
ete., as well as the smritis, is not borne out by the texts which 
I have cited above (pp. 7, 18) from the Vrihad Aranyaka, and 
Mundaka Upanishads. By classing together the Vedic Sanhitas, 
and the other works enumerated in the same passages, the authors 
of the Upanishads seem to place them all upon an equal footing. 
If the one set of works are superhuman, it may fairly be argued 
that the others are so likewise. According to the Mundaka 
Upanishad, neither of them (if we except only the Vedantas or 
Upanishads) can be placed in the highest rank, as they equally 
inculcate a science which is only of secondary importance. 



104 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

As, however, Sankara, in his comment on the text from the 
Vrihad Aranyaka Upanishad, maintains that the whole of the 
works enumerated, excepting the Sanhita3 of the four Vedas, are 
in reality portions of the Brahmanas, it will be necessary to 
quote his remarks, which are as follows (Bibl. Ind. ii. 855 ff.) : 
. . . Nisvasitam iva nisvasitam | yatha aprayatnenaiva puru- 
ska-nisvdso bhavaty evam vd \ are kim tad nisvasitam tato jdtam 
ity uckyate \ Yad rigvedo yajurvedah sdmavedo 'tharvdngi rasas 
chaturvidham mantra-jdtam \ ilihasa ity Urvasl-Pururavasor 
samvadddir ' Urvasl ha apsara' ityddi brdhmanam eva \ purd- 
nam ' asad va idam agre dsid' ityddi | vidyd devajana-vidyd 
' vedah so 'yam ' ityddih \ upanishadah ' priyam ity etad updsita ' 
ityddydh \'slokd ' brdhmana-prabkava mantras tad ete slokd' ity 
ddayah \ sutrani vastu-sangraha-vdkydni vede yatha ' atmd ity 
eva updsita' ityddlni \ anuvyakhyandni mantra-vivarandni \ 
vydkhydndni arthavaddh | . . . evam asktavid/iam brdhmanam \ 
evam mantra-brdkmanayor eva grahanam \ niyata-rachanavato 
vidyamdnasyaiva vedasya abhivyaktih purusha-nisvdsa-vat \ 
nacha purusha-buddhi-prayatna-purvakah \ atah pramdnam 
nirapexa eva svdrthe | . . . tena vedasya apjrdmdnyam d'sanhate \ 
tad-dsankd-nivritty-artham idam uktam \ purusha-nisvdsa-vad 
aprayatnotthitatvdt pramdnam vedo na yatha 'nyo grantha iti \ 
" ' His breathing' means, as it were his breathing, or it denotes 
the absence of effort, as in the case of a man's breathing. We 
are now told what that breathing was which was produced from 
him. It was the four classes of mantras (hymns), those of the 
Kik, Yajush, Saman, and Atharvangirases (Atharvana) ; Itihasa 
(or narrative), such as the dialogue between Urvasl and Pururavas, 
viz., the passage in the Brahmana beginning ' Urvasl the Apsaras,' 
etc. [S. P. Br. p. 855]; Purana, such as 'this was originally 
non-existent,' etc. ; Vidya (knowledge), the knowledge of the 
gods, as ' this is the Veda,' etc. ; Upanishads, such as ' this is 
beloved, let him reverence it,' etc. ; Slokas, such as those here 
mentioned, 'the mantras are the sources of the Brahmanas, on 
which subject there are these slokas,' etc. ; Sutras (aphorisms) 



sect, ix.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 105 

occurring in the Veda which condense the substance of doctrines, 
as 'it is the soul, let him adore,' etc.; Anuvyakhyanas, or 
interpretations of the mantras ; Vyakhyanas, or explanatory 
remarks." The commentator adds alternative explanations of 
the two last terms, and then proceeds : " Here, therefore, eight 
sorts of texts occurring in the Brahmanas are referred to ; and 
consequently the passage before us embraces merely mantras and 
Brahmanas. The manifestation of the Veda, which already ex- 
isted in a fixed form of composition, is compared to the breathing 
of a person : the Veda was not the result of effort proceeding from 
the conscious intelligence of any individual. Consequently, as 
proof in respect of itself, it is independent of everything else." 

Sankara terminates his comment on this passage by intimat- 
ing that the author of the Upanishad means to remove a doubt 
regarding the authority of the Veda, arising apparently from its 
unreality, if it were regarded as created by a conscious effort of 
Brahma, and therefore as distinct from him, the only really 
existing being, and concludes that " the Veda, unlike all other 
books, is authoritative, because it was produced without any 
effort of will, like a man's breathing." (See Sankhya Sutras, 
v*50 ; above p. 83.) 

This attempt to explain the whole of the eight classes of 
works enumerated in the Upanishad as nothing else than parts 
of the Brahmanas, cannot be regarded as altogether satisfactory, 
since some of them, such as the Sutras, have always been 
referred to a distinct class of writings, which are regarded as 
uninspired (see Mutter's Anc. Ind. Lit. pp. 15, 86) ; and the 
Itihasas and Puranas had in all probability become a dis- 
tinct class of writings at the period when the Upanishad was 
composed. And Sankara's explanation is rendered more 
improbable if we compare with this passage the other from 
the Mundaka Upanishad, i. 1, 5, already quoted above 
(p. 18), where it is said, "the inferior science consists of the 
Eik, Yajush, Sanaa, and Atharva Vedas, accentuation (sixa), 
ritual prescriptions {kalpa), grammar, commentary (nirukta), 



106 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., L UHAP - *• 

prosody (chhandas), and astronomy." 62 Here various appendages 
of the Vedas, which later writers expressly distinguish from the 
Vedas themselves, and distinctly declare to have no superhuman 
authority, are yet mentioned in the same category with the four 
Sanhitas, or collections of the hymns, as constituting the inferior 
science (in opposition to the knowledge of the supreme Spirit). 
From this we may reasonably infer that the author of the Vrihad 
Aranyaka Upanishad also, when he specifies the Sutras and 
some of the other works which he enumerates, intended to speak 
of the Vedangas or appendages of the Vedas, and perhaps the 
smritis also, as being the breathing of Brahma. The works 
which in the passage from the Mundaka are called Kalpa, are 
also commonly designated as the Kalpa Sutras. 

This conclusion is in some degree confirmed by referring to 
the passage from the Mahabharata S. P. 7,660, which has been 
cited in p. 73, where it i3 said that the " great rishis obtained 
by devotion the Vedas, and the Itihasas, which had disappeared 
at the end of the preceding Yuga." Whatever may be the sense 
of the word Itihasa in a Vedic work, there can be no doubt 
that in the Mahabharata, which is itself an Itihasa, the word 
refers to that class of metrical histories. And in this text we 
see these Itihasas placed on a footing of equality with the Vedas, 
and regarded as having been, like them, pre-existent and super- 
natural. See also the passage from the Chhandogya Upanishad, 

62 I take the opportunity of introducing here Sayana's remarks on this passage in 
his Commentary on the Rig-veda, vol. i., p. 33. Atigambhirasya vedasya artham 
avabodhayitum sixadmi shad-angcini pravrittani \ ata eva tesham apara-vidya-rupat- 
vam Mundahopanishady Atharvanika amananti | ' dve vidye' ityadi | . . . sadhana- 
bhuta-dharnia-jnana-hetutvat shad-anga-sahitanam karma- kandanam apara-vidyat- 
vam | parama-purushartha-bhuta-brafima-Jnana-hetutvad upanishadam para-vidyat- 
vam. " The sixa and other six appendages are intended to promote the comprehen- 
sion of the sense of the very deep Veda. Hence, in the Mundaka Upanishad, the 
followers of the Atharva-veda declare that these works helong to the class of inferior 
sciences, thus : ' There are two sciences,' etc. [see the entire passage in p. 18.] 
Since the sections of the Veda which relate to ceremonies [including, of course, the 
hymns], as -well as the six appendages, lead to a knowledge of duty, which is an 
instrument [of something further], they are ranked as an inferior science. On 
the other hand the ITpanishads, which conduct to a knowledge of Brahma, the 
supreme object of man, constitute the highest science." 



sect, x.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 107 

vii. 1, 1 ff. (Bibl. Ind., vol. iii., pp. 473 ff.) which will be given 
in the Appendix, where the Itihasas and Puranas are spoken of 
as a fifth Veda. The same title is applied to them in the Bhag. 
Pur. iii. 12, 39 : Itihasa-puranani pa&chamam veclam Isvarah \ 
sarvebhya eva mukhebhyah sasrije sarva-darsanah \ " The om- 
niscient Is'vara (God) created from all his mouths the Itihasas 
and Puranas, as a fifth Veda." 



Sect. X. — Recapitulation of the Arguments urged in the Darsanas, and 
by Commentators in support of the Authority of the Vedas, with 



As in the preceding sections (vi.-ix.) I have entered at some 
length into the arguments urged by the authors of the philoso- 
phical systems and their commentators, in proof of the eternity 
and infallibility of the Vedas, it may be convenient to recapitulate 
these reasonings, and to add such observations as the considera- 
tion of them may suggest. 

The grounds on which the apologists of the Vedas rest their 
authority are briefly these : — First, it is urged that, like the 
sun, they shine by their own light, and evince an inherent 
power both of revealing their own perfection, and of elucidating 
all other things, past and future, great and small, near and 
remote (Sayana, as quoted above, p. 44 ; Sankara on Brahma 
Sutras i. 1, 3, above, p. 45, note 31 ; Sankhya Sutras, above, 
p. 84). Second, that they are not known to have had, and there- 
fore could not have had, any human author, as the rishis 
merely saw, and did not compose them ; while, if they had any 
author, it was the deity, and as he is faultless, they could not 
have contracted any imperfection from being his work (Nyfiya- 
mala-vistara and Vedartha-prakas'a, above, pp. 88 and 52) . Third, 
that the language of which they are composed is eternal, and 
therefore they are eternal, and consequently (I presume) perfect 



108 



OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. 



and infallible. 53 (Mimansa Sutras and commentary; Brahma 
Siitraa with Sankara's commentary; above, pp. 52-73.) 

These arguments suggest a few remarks. In regard to the 
first ground for maintaining the infallibility of the Veda, viz., 
the evidence which radiates from itself, or its internal evidence, 
I need only observe that this is a species of proof which must 
be judged by the reason and conscience of each individual 
student. This evidence may appear conclusive to men in a 
certain stage of their national and personal culture, and especi- 
ally to those who have been accustomed from their infancy to 
regard the Vedas with a hereditary veneration ; whilst to persons 
in a different state of mental progress, and living under different 
influences, it will appear perfectly futile. It is quite clear that, 
even in India itself, there existed in former ages multitudes of 
learned and virtuous men who were unable to see the force of 
this argument, and who consequently rejected the authority of 
the Vedas. I allude of course to Buddha and his followers. 
(See also Part Second, p. 180 ff., where the objections of the 
rationalist Kautsa are detailed.) 

In regard to the second argument, viz. that the Vedas must 
be of divine origin, as they are not known to have had any 
human author, I observe as follows. The Greek historian, 
Herodotus, remarks (ii. 23) of a geographer of his own day who 
explained the annual inundations of the river Nile by sup- 
posing its stream to be derived from an imaginary ocean 
flowing round the earth, which no one had ever seen, that his 
opinion did not admit of confutation, because he carried the 
discussion back into the region of the unapparent (e? atpave? tov 
fjbvOov aveveiicas ovk e%et eXey^oi/). The same might be said of 
the Indian speculators, who argue that the Veda must have 
had a supernatural origin, because it was never observed to have 
had a human author like other books ; — that by thus removing the 

53 In the Vrihad Aranyaka Upanishad (p. 688 of Dr. Roer's ed.) it is said : 
Vachaiva samrad Brahma jnayate vag vai samrat paramam Brahma. " By speech, 
o monarch, Brahma is known. Speech is the supreme Brahma." 



sect, x.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. 109 

negative grounds on which they rest their case into the unknown 
depths of antiquity, they do their utmost to place themselves be- 
yond the reach of direct refutation. But it is to be observed (1) 
that, even if it were to be admitted that no human authors of the 
Vedas were remembered in later ages, this would prove nothing 
more than their antiquity, and that it would still be incumbent 
on their apologists to show that this circumstance necessarily 
involved their supernatural character ; and (2) that, in point of 
fact, Indian tradition does point to certain rishis or bards as the 
authors of the Vedic hymns. It is true, indeed, as has been 
already noticed (p. 90), that these rishis are said to have only seen 
the hymns, which (it is alleged) were eternally pre-existent, and 
that they were not their authors. But as it appears to be shown 
by tradition that the hymns were uttered by such and such rishis, 
how is it proved that these rishis were not uttering the mere pro- 
ductions of their own minds ? The whole character of these com- 
positions, and the circumstances under" which they appear to 
have arisen, are in harmony with the supposition that they were 
nothing more than the natural expression of the personal hopes 
and feelings of those ancient bards from whom they proceeded. 
In these songs the Arian sages celebrated the praises of their 
ancestral gods (while at the same time they sought to conciliate 
their goodwill by a variety of acceptable oblations), and besought 
of them all the blessings which men in general desire — health, 
wealth, long life, cattle, offspring, victory over their enemies, 
and in some cases also, forgiveness of sin and celestial felicity. 

The scope of these hymns is well summed up in the passage 
which I have already quoted in Part Second, p. 206. "The 
rishis desiring [various] objects, hastened to the gods with metrical 
prayers." The Mrukta, quoted in the same place, says : " Each 
particular hymn has for its deity the god to whom the rishi, 
seeking to obtain any object of desire which he longs for, addresses 
his prayer." 

And in the continuation of the same passage from the Nirukta 
(vii. 3), the fact that the hymns express the different feelings or 



110 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

objects of the rishis is distinctly recognized -.—Paroxa-kritah 
pratyaxa-kritascha mantra bhuyishtha alpa'sa adhydtmikah \ 
athapi stutir eva bhavati na asirvada ' Indrasya nu vlryard 
pravocham' iti yathd etasmin sukte \ athapi dslr eva 'na stutili 
' suchaxd aham axlbhydm bhuyasam suvarcha mukhena susrut 
karndbhydm bhuyasam' iti \ tad etad bakulam ddhvaryave yaj- 
tieshu cha mantreshu \ athapi sapathdbhisdpau \ ' adya murlya ' 
ityadi . . . athapi kasyachid bhavasya achikhydsa \ ' na mrityur asid' 
ityadi . . . | athapi paridevana kasmachchid bhavat \ ' sudevo adya 
prapated anavrid' ityadi \ athapi ninda-prasainse \ ' kevalagho 
bhavati kevaladl ' ityadi \ evam axa-sukte dyuta-ninda cha krishi- 
prasamsa cha || evam uchchavachair abhiprayair rishlnam man- 
tra-drishtayo bhavanti \ " [Of the three kinds of verses specified 
in the preceding section] those which address a god as absent, 
and those which address him as present, are the most numerous, 
while those which are addressed to the speaker himself [or the 
soul] are rare. It happens also that a god is praised without 
any blessing being invoked, as in the hymn (R. V. i. 32). ' I 
declare the heroic deeds of Indra,' etc. Again, blessings are 
invoked without any praise being offered, as in the words, ' May 
I see well with my eyes, have a handsome face, and hear well 
with my ears.' This frequently occurs in the Adhvaryava 
(Yajur) Veda, and in the sacrificial formulae. Then again we 
find oaths and curses, as in the words, (R. V. vii. 104, 15), 
' May I die to-day, if I am a yatudhdna' etc. (See Part First, 
p. 132). Further, we observe the desire to describe some par- 
ticular state of things, as in the verse (R. V. x. 129, 2) ' Death 
was not then, nor immortality,' etc. Then there is lamentation, as 
in the verse (R. V. x. 95, 14), ' The beautiful god will disappear 
and never return,' etc. Again, we have blame and praise, as in 
the words (R. V. x. 117, 6), ' The man who eats alone, bears the 
blame alone,' etc. So too in the hymn to dice (R. V. x. 34, 13), 
there is a censure upon dice, and a commendation of agricul- 
ture. Thus the objects for which the hymns were "Seen by the 
rishis were very various." 



sect, x.] OF THE VEDAS, HELD BY INDIAN AUTHORS. Ill 

It is to be observed, however, that though in this passage 
the author, Yaska, speaks of the various desires which the rishis 
expressed in different hyrnns, he nevertheless adheres to the idea 
which was recognized in his age, and in which he doubtless par- 
ticipated, that the rishis saw the hymns. 

I may also refer to the passage quoted from the Nirukta x. 42, 
in Part Second, pp. 391, 392, note, where the form of the metre 
in particular hymns appears to be ascribed to the peculiar genius 
of the rishi Paruchhepa. 

In Nirukta iii. 11 a similar manner of regarding the rishi 
Kutsa is ascribed to the interpreter Aupamanyava: Rishih Kutso 
bhavati kartta stomanam ity AupamanyavaTi \ " ' Kutsa is the 
name of a rishi, a maker of hymns,' as Aupamanyava thinks." 

I do not, as I have already intimated, quote these passages of 
the Nirukta to show that the author regarded the hymns as the 
ordinary productions of the rishis' own minds, for this would be 
at variance with the expression " seeing," which he applies to the 
mental act by which they were created. It appears also from 
the terms in which he speaks of the rishis in the passage (Nirukta 
i. 20) quoted in p. 174 of the Second Part, where they are described 
as having an intuitive insight into duty, that he placed them on 
a far higher level than the inferior men of later ages. But it 
is clear that Yaska recognizes the hymns as being applicable to 
the particular circumstances in which the rishis were placed, and 
as being the bond fide expression of their individual emotions 
and desires. (See also Nirukta ii. 10 and 24, quoted in Part First, 
pp. 143, 144, and 124.) But if this be true, the supposition that 
these hymns, i.e., hymns suited to declare the different feelings 
and wishes of all the different rishis, were eternally pre-existent, 
and were perceived by them at the precise conjunctures when 
they were required to express their several aims, is perfectly 
gratuitous and unnecessary, (and involves what Indian logicians 
call a gaurava). 

In regard to the third argument for the authority of the 
Vedas, viz., that they are eternal, because the words of which 



112 OPINIONS REGARDING THE ORIGIN, ETC., [chap. i. 

they are composed are eternal, and because these words have an 
inherent and eternal (and not a merely conventional) connection 
with the significations or objects, or the species of objects, which 
they represent, it is to be observed that it is rejected both by the 
Nyaya and Sankhya schools. 54 And I am unable (if I rightly 
comprehend this orthodox reasoning) to see how it proves the 
authority of the Veda more than that of any other book. If tbe 
words of the Veda are eternal, so must those of the Bauddha 
books be eternal, and consequently the perfection and infalli- 
bility of these heretical works must be as much proved by this 
argument as the divine origin of the Vedas, whose pretensions 
they reject and oppose. 

Against the eternity of the Vedas an objection has been 
raised, which Jaimini considers it necessary to notice, viz., 
that various historical personages are named in their pages, 
and that as these works could not have existed before the per- 
sons whose doings they record, they must have commenced to 
exist in time. This difficulty Jaimini attempts, as we have seen 
above (pp. 61, 63), to meet by explaining away the names of the 
historical personages in question. Thus Babara Pravahini is 
said to be nothing else than an appellation of the wind, which 
is eternal. And this method, it is said, is to be applied in all 
similar cases. Another of the passages mentioned by an objector 
(see above, p. 62) as referring to non-eternal objects is B. V. iii. 
53, 14, "What are the cows doing among the Klkatas?" etc. 
The author of the Mimansa Sutras would perhaps attempt to 
show that by these Klkatas we are to understand some eternally 
pre-existing beings. But Yaska, the author of the Nirukta, 
who had not been instructed in any such subtleties, speaks of 
the Klkatas as a non-Aryan nation. (Part Second, p. 362.) 
It is difficult to suppose that Jaimini — unless he was an enthu- 
siast, and not the cool and acute reasoner he has commonly 
proved himself to be — could have seriously supposed that this 

54 See Dr. Ballantyne's remarks on this controversy, in pp. 186, 189, 191 and 192 
of his " Christianity contrasted with Hindu Philosophy." 



sect, x.] OP THE VEDAS, HELD Bf INDIAN AUTHORS. 113 

rule of interpretation could ever be generally received or 
carried out. The Brahmanas evidently intend to represent 
numerous occurrences which they narrate, as having actually 
taken place in time, and the actors in them as having been real 
historical personages. See, for instance, the two legends from 
the Satapatha Brahmana, quoted in the Second Part of this 
work, pp. 324 and 419. And it is impossible to peruse the 
Vedic hymns without coming to the conclusion that they also 
record a multitude of events, which the writers believed to have 
been transacted by men on earth in former ages. (See the 
passages quoted from the Kig-veda in the First and Second 
Parts of this work, passim ; those, for example, in Part Second, 
p. 208.) 

We shall, no doubt, be assisted in arriving at a correct con- 
clusion in regard to the real origin and character of the hymns 
of the Veda, if we enquire what opinion the rishis, by whom 
they were confessedly spoken, entertained of their own utter- 
ances ; and this I propose to investigate in the following chapter. 



114 



THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD 



CHAPTEE II. 

THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD TO THE ORIGIN 
OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 

I have already shewn, in the preceding pages, as well as in 
Part Second of this work, that the hymns of the Eig-veda them- 
selves supply us with numerous data hy which we can judge of 
the circumstances to which they owed their origin, and of the 
manner in which they were created. We have seen that they 
were the natural product and expression of the particular state 
of society, of the peculiar religious conceptions, and of all those 
other influences, physical and moral, which prevailed at the 
period when they were composed, and acted upon the minds of 
their authors. (Part Second, pp. 205 ff; and above, pp. 109 ff.) 
We find in them ideas, a language, a spirit, and a colouring 
totally different from those which characterize the religious 
writings of the Hindus of a later era. They frequently dis- 
cover to us the simple germs from which mythological legends 
current in subsequent ages were derived, — germs which in many 
cases were developed in so fanciful and extravagant a manner as 
to prove that the correct tradition had long before disappeared, 
and that the lost details have been replaced by pure fictions of 
the imagination. They afford us very distinct indications of the 
locality in which they were composed (Part Second, pp. 354-372) ; 
they shew us the Arian tribes living in a state of warfare with 
surrounding enemies (many of them, no doubt, alien in race and 
language), and gradually, as we may infer, forcing their way 
onward to the east and south (Part Second, pp. 374 ff., 384 ff., 
414 ff.) ; they supply us with numerous specimens of the par- 



TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 115 

ticular sorts of prayers, viz., for protection and victory, which 
men so circumstanced would naturally address to the gods whom 
they worshipped, as well as of those more common supplica- 
tions which men in general offer up for the various blessings 
which constitute the sum of human welfare ; and they bring 
before us as the objects of existing veneration a class of deities 
(principally, if not exclusively, personifications of the elements, 
and of the powers either of nature, or of reason) who gradually 
lost their importance in the estimation of the later Indians, and 
made way for gods of a different description, invested with new 
attributes, and in many cases bearing new appellations. 

These peculiarities of the hymns, combined with the archaic 
forms of the dialect in which they are composed, and the refer- 
ences which are made to them, as pre-existent, in the liturgical 
works by which they are expounded and applied, abundantly 
justify us in regarding them as the most ancient of all the 
Indian Scriptures, — as well as the natural product and, the spon- 
taneous representation of the ideas, feelings, and aspirations of 
the bards from whom they emanated. 

We can also, as I have shewn, discover from the Vedic hymns 
themselves, that some of them were newer and others older, that 
they were the works of many successive generations of poets, 
that their composition probably extended over several centuries, 
and that in some places their authors represent them as being 
the productions of their own minds, while in other passages 
they appear to ascribe to their own words a certain divine 
character, or attribute their composition to some supernatural 
assistance. (Part Second, pp. 206 ff., 219 ff.) 

I shall now proceed to adduce further proofs from the hymns 
of the Rig-veda in support of these last mentioned positions ; 
repeating, at the same time, for the sake of completeness, the 
texts which I have already cited in the Second Part. 



116 THE EISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. 11. 



Sect. I. — Passages from the Hymns of the Veda which distinguish 
between the Rishis as Ancient and Modern. 

The appellations or. epithets applied by the authors of the 
hymns to themselves, and to the sages who in former times had 
instituted, as well as to their contemporaries who continued to 
conduct, the different rites of divine worship, are the following : 
rishi, kavi, medhavin, vipra, vipaschit, vedhas, dlrgha'srut, muni, 
etc. The rishis are defined in Boehtlingk and Eoth's lexicon, 
to be persons " who, whether singly or in chorus, either on 
their own behalf or on behalf of others, invoked the gods in 
artificial language, and in song ; " and the word is said to denote 
especially " the priestly bards who made this art their profes- 
sion." The word kavi means "wise," or "a poet," and has ordi- 
narily the latter sense in modern Sanskrit. Vipra means " wise," 
and in later, Sanskrit a " Brahman." Medhavin means " intel- 
. ligent ; " vipasckit and vedhas, " wise " or " learned ; " and 
dirgha-srut, a " man who has heard much." Muni signifies in 
modern Sanskrit a "sage" or devotee." It is not much used 
in the Kig-veda, but occurs in viii. 17, 13 (Part Second, p. 397). 

The following passages from the Rig-veda either expressly 
distinguish between contemporary rishis and those of a more 
ancient date, or, at any rate, make reference to the one or the 
other class. This recognition of a succession of rishis consti- 
tutes one of the historical elements in the Veda. It is an 
acknowledgment on the part of the rishis themselves that 
numerous persons had existed, and events occurred, anterior 
to their own age, and, consequently, in time; and it therefore 
refutes, by the testimony of the Veda itself, the assertion of 
Jaimini (above, pp. 60-63, and 112) that none but eternally pre- 
existing objects are mentioned in that book. 

If, under this and other heads of my inquiry, I have cited 
a larger number of passages than might have appeared to be 
necessary, it has been done with the intention of showing that 



sect, i.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 117 

abundant evidence of my various positions can be adduced from 
all parts of the Hymn-collection. 

E. V. i. 1, 2. — Agnih purvebhir rishibhir idyo nutanair uta \ 
sa devan eha vaxati \ " Agni, who is worthy to be celebrated by 
former, as well as modern rishis, will bring the gods hither." 

The word piirvebhih is explained by Sayana thus : Purata- 
nair Bhrigv-angirah-prabhritibhir rishibhih \ " By the ancient 
rishis, Bhrigu, Angiras," etc. ; and niitanaih is interpreted by 
idanlntanair asmabhir api, " by us of the present day also." 

E. V. i. 48, 14.— Fe chid hi tvam rishayah purve utayejuhure 
ityadi \ " The former rishis who invoked thee for succour," etc. 

E. V. i. 80, 16. — Yam Atharva Manush pita Dadhyan dhiyam 
atnata \ tasmin brakmani purvatha Indre uktha samagmata 
ityadi \ "In the ceremony [or hymn] which Atharvan, or our 
father Manu, or Dadhyanch performed, the prayers and praises 
were, as of old, congregated in that Indra," etc. 

E. V. i. 118, 3 (repeated in E. V. iii. 58, 3).— . . . Ahur 
viprasah Asvina purajah \ " Asvins, the ancient sages say," etc. 

E. V. i. 131, 6. — . . . A me asya vedhaso namyaso manma 
srudhi navvy asali \ " Hear the hymn of me this modern sage, 
of this modern [sage]." 

E. V. i. 139, 9. — Dadhyan ha me janusham pUrvo Angirak 
Priyamedhah Kanvo Atrir Manur vidur ityadi \ " The ancient 
Dadhyanch, Angiras, Priyamedhas, Kanva, Atri, and Manu 
know my birth." 

E. V. i. 175, 6. — Yatha purvebhyo jaritribhya Indra maya 
iva apo na trishyate babhutha \ Tarn anu tva nividam johavimi 
ityadi \ " Indra, as thou hast been like a joy to former wor- 
shippers, like waters to the thirsty, I invoke thee again and 
again with this hymn," etc. 

E. V. iv. 20, 5. — Vi yo rarapke rishibhir navebhir vrixo na 
pakvah srinyo na jeta | . . . achha vivakmi puruhutam Indram \ 
" I call upon that Indra, invoked by many, who, like a ripe 
tree, like a conqueror expert in arms, has been celebrated by 
recent rishis," 



118 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

R. V. iv. 50, 1. — Tam pratnasa rishayo dldhyanah puro viprd 
dad/dre mandra-jihvam | "The ancient rishis, resplendent and 
sage, have placed in front of them Brihaspati with gladdening 
tongue." 

R. V. v. 42, 6. — ... Na te purve Maghavan na apardso 
na viryam niitanah kaschana dpa \ " Neither the ancients nor 
later men, nor any modern man, has attained to [conceived] 
thy heroism, o Maghavan." 

R. V. x. 54, 3. — Ke u nu te mahimanah samasya asmat purve 
rishayo antam apuh \ " Who among the rishis who were before 
us have attained to the end of all thy greatness ? " 

R. V. vi. 19, 4. — Yatha chit purve jaritara asur anedyd ana- 
vadya arishtdh \ "As [Indra's] former worshippers were, [may 
we be] blameless, irreproachable, and unharmed." 

R. V. vi. 21, 5. — Ida hi te vevishatah purajah pratnasa asuh 
purukrit sakhdyah \ Ye madhyamasa uta nutanasa utavamasya 
puruhuta bodhi \ " For here, o energetic god, the ancients born 
of old, have been the friends of thee, who didst often approach 
them ; and so too were the men of the middle and later ages. 
much-invoked, think of the most recent of all." ' 

R. V. vi. 21, 8. — Sa tu srudhi Indra nutanasya brahmanyato 
vlra kdrudhaydh \ "Heroic Indra, supporting the poet, listen 
to the modern [bard] who wishes to celebrate thee." 

R. V. vi. 22, 2. — Tam u nah purve pitaro navagvah sapta 
viprdsah abhi vdjayantah ityddi | " Him (Indra) our ancient 
fathers, the seven sages, desiring food, celebrated, performing 
the nine-months/ rite," etc. 

R. V. vi. 50, 15.— Eva napdto mama tasya dhlbhir Bharad- 
vdjd abhyarchanti arkaih \ " Thus do the Bharadvajas my 
grandsons adore thee with hymns and praises." 

R. V. vii. 18, 1. — Tve ha yat pitaras chid nah Indra visvd 
vamd jaritdro asanvann ityddi \ " Since, in thee, o Indra, our 
fathers, thy worshippers, attained all riches," etc. 

R. V. vii. 29, 4,— Uto gha te purushyd id dsan eshdm pur- 
1 This verse is translated in Benfey's Glossary to the Sama-veda, p. 76, col. i. 



sect. i.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 119 

veshdm asrinor rishlndm \ adhd aham tva Maghavan johavimi 
tvam nah Indra asi pramatih piteva | "They were men who 
understood thy prowess : thou didst hear those former rishis. 
I invoke thee again and again, o, Maghavan ; thou art to us wise 
as a father." (The word purushya does not occur in any dic- 
tionary to which I have access. I have followed M. Langlois 
in giving the sense as above.) 

R. V. vii. 53, 1. — ... Te chid hi purve kavayo grinantah 
puro mahi dadhire devaputre \ " The ancient poets, celebrating 
their praises, have placed before them these two great [beings, 
heaven and earth] of whom the gods are the children." 

R. V. vii. 76, 4. — Te id devandm sadhamddah dsann ritdvdnah 
kavayah purvyasah \ gulham jyotih pitaro anvavindan satya- 
mantrd ajanayann ushasam \ " They were the delight [?] of the 
gods, those ancient pious sages. Our fathers discovered the 
hidden light ; with true hymns they caused the dawn to arise." 

R. V. vii. 91, \.~Kuvid anga namasa ye vridhasali pura 
devasah anavadyasa asan \ te Yayave Manave bddhitdya avasa- 
yann % ushasafh suryena | "Those gods who formerly grew 
through reverence were altogether blameless. They caused the 
dawn to rise and the sun to shine for Vayu and the afflicted 
Manu." (Are we to understand rishis by the word devah (gods) 
which is employed here ?) 

R. V. viii. 36, 7. — Syavasvasya sunvatas tatha srinu yathfr 
asrinor, Atreh karmani kriiwatah | "'Listen to Syavasva 
pouring forth libations, in the same way as thou didst listen to 
AM when he celebrated sacred rites." 

R. V. ix. 96, 11. — Tvayd hi nah pitarah Soma purve karmani 
chakruh pavamdna dhlrah \ " For through thee, o pure Soma, 
our wise forefathers of old performed their sacred rites." 

R. V. ix. 110, 7. — Toe Soma prathamd vrikta-varhisho mahe 
vajdya sravase dhiyam dadhuh \ "The former [priests] having 
strewed the sacred grass, offered up. a hymn to thee, o Soma,for 
great strength and food." 

2 See Benfey's Glossary to Sama-veda, under the word vat 2. 



120 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. u. 

R. V. x. 14, 15 (= A. V. xviii. 2, 2).—Idam nama rishibhyah 
piirvajebhyah pUnebhyah pathikridbhyah \ " This reverence to 
the rishis, born of old, the ancients, who shewed us the road." 
(This verse may also be employed to prove that at the end of 
the Vedic period the rishis had become objects of veneration.) 

R. V. x. 56, 14. — Vasiskthasah pitrivad vacham akrata devan 
liana rishivad \ ityadi \ " The Vasishthas, like the forefathers, 
like the rishis, have uttered their voice, worshipping the gods." 

R. V. x. 96, 5. — Tvam aharyatha upastutah purvebhir Indra 
harikesa yajvabhlh \ " Indra, with golden hair, thou didst re- 
joice, when lauded by the ancient priests," 

R. V. x. 98, 9. — Tvam purve rishayo glrbkir ayan tvam 
adkvareshu puruhuta visve | "To thee the former rishis resorted 
with their hymns ; to thee, thou much invoked, all men [re- 
sorted] at the sacrifices." 

Vajasaneyi Samhita, xviii. 5, 2. — Imau te paxav ajarau pata- 
trinau yabhyam raxafhsi apahamsi Agne \ tabhyam patema 
sukritam u lokam yatra rishayo jagmuh pratkamajah puranah \ 
" But these undecaying, soaring pinions, with which, o Agni, 
thou slayest the Raxases, — with them let us ascend to the world 
of the righteous, whither the earliest-born ancient rishis have 
gone." (This verse is quoted in the Satapatha Brahmana, ix. 
4, 4, 4, p. 739.) 

The ancient rishis, as Sayana says in his note on R. V. i. 2, 
were Bhrigu, Angiras, and others whom he does not name. In 
another place we find Atharvan, Manu, Dadhyanch, and others 
mentioned. I will not attempt to give any critical account of 
these ancient sages. For some texts relating to Bhrigu, I may 
refer to the First Part of this work, p. 152 ff. ; and some pas- 
sages relating to Manu will be found in the Second Part, pp. 
324-332. In regard to Atharvan, as well as Angiras, Prof. 
Goldstucker's Sanskrit and English Dictionary, and in regard 
to the same personages and Dadhyanch, the Sanskrit and Ger- 
man Lexicon of Boehtlingk and Roth, may be consulted. 



sect, ii.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 121 



Sect. II. — Passages from the Veda in which a distinction is drawn 
between the older and the more recent hymns. 

From the passages which I propose to bring forward in the 
present section, it will be found that the hymns which the rishis 
addressed to the gods are frequently spoken of as new, while 
others of ancient date are also sometimes mentioned. The rishis 
no doubt entertained the idea that the gods would be more highly 
gratified if their praises were celebrated in new, and perhaps 
more elaborate and beautiful compositions, than if older and 
possibly ruder, prayers had been repeated. 

The fact that a hymn is called new by its author, does not, 
however, by any means enable us to determine its age relatively 
to that of other hymns in the collection, for this epithet of new 
is, as we shall see, applied to numerous compositions throughout 
the Veda ; and even when a hymn is not designated as new, it 
may, nevertheless, be in reality of recent date, compared with 
the others by which it is surrounded. When, however, any rishi 
characterizes his own effusion as new, we are of course neces- 
sarily led to conclude that he was acquainted with many older 
songs of the same kind. The relative ages of the different hymns 
can only be settled by means of the internal evidence furnished 
by their dialect, style, metre, ideas, and general contents ; and 
we may, no doubt, hope that much will by degrees be done by 
the researches of critical scholars towards such a chronological 
classification of the constituent portions of the Eig-veda. 

The hymns, praises, or prayers uttered by the rishis are 
called by a great variety of names, such as rich, sctman, yajush, 
brahman, arka, uktha, silkta, mantra, manman, matt, manlsha, 
sumati, dhl, dhiti, dhishand, stoma, stuti, sushtuti, prasasti, 
samsa, gir, vach, vachas, nltha, nivid, etc. 

R. V. i. 12, 11. — Sa nah stavana ctbhara gayatrena navlyasa \ 
rayim vlravatim isham | " Glorified by our newest hymn, do 
thou bring to us wealth and food with progeny." (Sayana 



122 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

explains navlyasa by purvakair apy asampaditena gayatrena \ 

A hymn not formed even by former rishis.") 

E. V. i. 27, 4. — Imam u shu tvam asmakam sanim gayatram 
navyamsam \ Ague deveshu pravochah \ " Agni, thou hast an- 
nounced [or do thou announce] among the gods this our offer- 
ing, our newest hymn." 

E. V. i. 60, 3.— Tarn navyasl hrida a jayamdnam asmat- 
suklrttir madhu-jihvam asyah \ yam ritvijo vrijane manushasali 
prayasvanta ayavo jljananta \ " May our newest laudation reach 
thee, the sweet tongued, who art produced from the heart, whom 
mortal priests the descendants of Manu, offering oblations, have 
generated in battle." 

E. V. i. 89, 3. — Tan purvaya nivida humahe vayam Bhagam 
Mitram Aditim Daxam Asridham ityadi | " We invoke with an 
ancient hymn Bhaga, Mitra, Aditi, Daxa, Asridh [or the friendly]," 
etc. (Purvakalinaya \ nityaya \ nivida \ vedatmikaya vacha \ 
" With an ancient — eternal, hymn — a Vedic text." Sayana.) 

E. V. i. 96, 2. — Sa purvaya nivida kavyata Ay or imah praja 
qjanayad manunam \ " Through the ancient laudatory hymn of 
Ayu he generated these children of the Manus." 

E. V. i. 130, 10. — Sa no navyebhir vrishakarmann ukthais 
pur am darttah payubhili pahi sagmaih \ " Through our new 
hymns, do thou, showerer of favours, destroyer of cities, sustain 
us with invigorating blessings." 

E. V. i. 143, 1. — Pra tavyaslm navyasim dhltim Agnaye vacho 
matim sahasah sunave bhare \ "I bring to Agni, the son of 
strength, a new and energetic hymn, a vocal celebration." 

E. V. ii. 17, 1. — Tad asmai navy am Angiras-vad arckata 
ityadi \ " Utter to him [Indra] that new [hymn] like the Angi- 
rases." (" New, i.e., never before seen among other people." 
anyeshv adrishta-purvam \ Sayana.) 

E. V. ii. 24, 1. — Sa imam aviddhi prabhritim ya isishe \ ay a 
vidhema navaya maha gira \ "Do thou who rulest receive this, 
our offering [of praise] : let us worship thee with this new and 
grand song." 



sect, ii.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 123 

R. V. iii. 1, 20. — Eta te Agne janima sanani pra purvyaya 
nutanani vocham \ "These ancient [and yet] new productions I 
have uttered to thee, Agni, who art ancient." (Comp. R. V. viii. 
84, 5, in the next section.) 

R. V. iii. 32, 13. — Yah stomebhir vavridke purvyebhir yo 
madhyamebkir uta nutanebhih \ " [Indra] who has grown 
through ancient, middle, and modern hymns." 

R. V. iii. 39, 1. — Indram matir hrida a vachyamand achha 
patiih stoma-tashta jigati \ a jagrivir vidathe sasyamana Indra 
yat tejayate viddhi tasya \ 2. divaschid a purvya jdyamdna vi 
jagrivir vidathe sasyamana \ bhadra vastrdni arjuna vasand s& 
iyam asme sanajd pitrya dhih \ " 1. The song, fabricated by the 
bard, and uttered from the heart, proceeds to Indra the lord ; it 
arouses him when chaunted at the sacrifice : be cognizant, Indra, 
of this [praise] which is produced for thee. 2. Produced before 
the dawn, arousing thee when cbaunted at the sacrifice, clothed 
in beautiful and radiant garments, — this is our ancient ancestral 
hymn." (Pitrya is rendered by Sayana as pitri-kramagata, 
" received by succession from our fathers.") 

R. V. iii. 62, 7. — Iyam te Pushann dghrine sushtutir deva 
navyasl \ asmabhis tubhyam sasyate \ " Divine and glowing 
Pushan, this new laudation is uttered by us to thee." 

R. V. v. 42, 13. — Pra sic make susaranaya medhdm giram 
bhare navyaslm jayamanam | "I present to the mighty pro- 
tector a mental production, a new utterance [now] springing up." 

R. V. v. 55, 8. — Yat puny am Maruto yachcha nutanamyad 
udyate Vasavo yachcha sasyate \ visvasya tasya bhavatha naveda- 
sah | " Be cognizant of all that is ancient, Maruts, and of all that 
is modern, of all that is spoken, Vasus, and of all that is sung." 

R. V. vi. 17, 13. — . . . Sumram tva svayudham suvajram a 
brahma navy am avase vavrityat \ " May the new prayer impel 
thee, the heroic, well-accoutred thunderer, to succour us." 
(" New, i.e., never made before by others : prayer, i.e., the 
hymn made by us." Nutanam anyair akrita-purvam [ brahma 
asmabhih kritam stotram \ Sayana.) 



124 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. it. 

R. V. vi 22, 7. — Tarn vo dhiyd naeyasyd savishtham pratnam 
pratnavat paritaifisayadhyai \ "I seek, like the ancients, to 
stimulate thee, the ancient, with a new hymn." 

R. V. vi. 34. 1, — Saficha tve jagmur giro, Indra purvir vi cha 
tvad yanti vibhvo manlshdh \ purd nunancha stutaya rishlnam 
paspridkre Indre adhi ukthdrkdh \ " Many prayers, Indra, are 
collected in thee ; numerous hymns issue forth from thee ; both 
before and now the praises, texts and hymns of rishis have 
hastened emulously to Indra." 

R. V. vi. 44, 13. — Yak purvydbhir uta nutandbhir girbhir 
vdvridhe grinatdm rishlnam | "He (Indra) who grew through 
the ancient and modem hymns of adoring rishis." (See R. V. 
iii. 32, 13, above p. 123.) 

R. V. vi. 48, 11. — A sakMyah subardugham dhenum ajadhvam 
upa navyasa vachah \ " Friends, bring hither the milch cow 
with a new hymn." 

R. V. vi. 49, 1. — Stuske janam suvratam navyasibhir gir- 
bhir Mitravaruna sumnayanta \ " With new praises I cele- 
brate the holy race, with Mitra and Varuna, the beneficent." 
("The holy race, i.e., the divine race, the company of the 
gods," sukarmdnam janam. daivyam- janafh deva-sangham \ 
Sayana.) 

R. V. vi. 50, 6. — Abhi tyam- vlraih girvanasam archa Indram 
brahmand jaritar navena \ " Invoke, o worshipper, with a new 
hymn, the heroic Indra, who delights in praise." 

R. V. vi. 62, 4. — Toi navyaso jaramanasya manma upa bhu- 
shato yuyujanasaptl ityddi \ 5. Ta valgu dasra purusakatamd 
pratnd navyasa vachasa vivase \ 4. " These (Asvins), with 
yoked horses, approach the hymn of their new worshipper.". . . 
5. I adore with a new hymn these brilliant, ancient, and most 
mighty deliverers." 

R. V. vii. 53, 2. — Pra purvaje pitara navyasibhir glrbhih 
krinudhvam sadane ritasya ityddi \ " In the place of sacrifice 
propitiate with new hymns the ancient, the parents," etc. 

R. V. vii. 56, 23. — Bhuri chakra Marutah pitryani ukthdni 



sect, ii.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 125 

ya vak sasyante pura chit \ " Ye have done great things, o 
Maruts, when our fathers' hymns were sung of old in your 
honour." 

E. V. vii. 59, 4. — . . . abhi va avartt sumatir navlyasi ityadi \ 
" The new hymn has been directed to you." 

R. V. vii. 61, 6. — . .j. Pra vam manmani richase navani kritani 
brahma jujushann imani \ " May the new hymns made in your 
honour, may these prayers gratify- you." 

R. V. vii. 93, 1. — Suchim nu stomal nava-jatam adya In- 
dragnl Vrittra-hana jushetham \ ubha hi vain suhava johavimi 
ityadi \ " Indra and Agni, slayers of Vrittra, receive with favour 
the pure hymn newly produced to-day. For again and again 
do I invoke you who lend a willing ear," etc. 

R. V. viii. 5, 24. — Tabhir ayatam utibhir navyaslbhih susasti- 
bhir yad vam vrishanvasu have | " Come with those same suc- 
cours, since I invoke you, bountiful [deities], with new praises." 
(The epithet navyaslbhiJi in this text' may possibly apply to the 
word utibhih, " aids.") 

R. V. viii. 6, 11. — Aham pratnena manmana girah sumbhami 
Kanva-vat yena Indrah sushmam id dadhe | "I decorate my 
praises with an ancient hymn, after the maimer of Kanva, 
whereby Indra put on strength." 

R. V. viii. 6, 43. — Imaffi su pilrvyam dhiyam madhor ghri- 
tasya pipyushlm Kanva ukthena vavridhuh \ " The Kanvas with 
their praises have augmented this ancient hymn, replenished 
with sweet butter." 

R. V. viii. 12, 10. — lyam te ritviyavati dhltir eti navlyasi 
saparyantl ityadi \ " This new and solemn hymn advances to 
honour thee," etc. 

R. V. viii. 20, 19. — Yunah u su navishthaya vrishnah pavakan 
abhi Sobhare gira \ gay a ityadi \ " Celebrate, Sobhari, with a 
new hymn these youthful [gods] who shower down benefits and 
purify us." 

R. V. viii. 23, 14. — Srushtt Agne navasya me stomasya vira 
vispate vi mayinas tapusha raxaso daha \ " Heroic Agni, lord 



126 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

of the people, listening [?] to my new hymn, burn up with thy 
heat the deluding Eaxases." 

E. V. viii. 25, 24. — Kasavanta vipra navishthaya mail rnaho 
vajinav arvanta, sacha asanam \ " I have celebrated at once with 
a new hymn, these sage and mighty [princes], strong, swift, and 
carrying whips." 

E. V. viii-. 39, 6. — ... Agnir veda marttanam aplchyam . . . 
Agnir dvara vyurnute svahuto navlyasa | "Agni knows the 
secrets of mortals . . . Agni, invoked by a new [hymn], opens 
the doors." 

E. V. viii. 40, 12. — Ema Indragnibhyam pilrivad navlyo Man- 
dhatrivad Angirasvad avachi ityadi | " Thus has a new [hymn] 
been uttered to Indra and Agni after the manner of our fathers, 
and of Mandhatri, and of Angiras." 

E. V. viii. 41, 2. — Tarn ii shu samana giro, pitrlnaMcha man- 
mabhir Nabhakasya prasastibhih \ yah sindhunam upa udaye 
sapta-svasa sa madhyamah \ " [Worship] him (Varuna) at once 
with a song, with the hymns of the fathers, and with the praises 
of Nabhaka. He who dwells at the birth-place of the streams, 
the lord of the seven sisters, abides in the centre." (This verse 
is quoted in the Nirukta x. 5. Nabhaka is said by Yaska.to 
have been a rishi (riskir Nabhako babhuva). A translation of 
the passage is given in Eoth's Illustrations of the Nir. p. 135, 
where reference is also made to two verses of the preceding 
hymn (viii. 40, 4, 5), in which Nabhaka (the ancestor of 
Nabhaka) is mentioned thus : (verse 4) Abhyarcha Ntibhaka-vad 
Indragnl yojasa giro, . . . (verse 5) Pra brahmani Nabkaka-vad 
Indragnibhyam irajyata \ " Worship Indra and Agni with sacri- 
fice and hymn, like Nabhaka . . . Like Nabhaka, direct your 
prayers to Indra and Agni." In explanation of the seven 
sisters, Eoth refers to Nir. v. 27 (E. V. viii. 58, 12) where the 
seven rivers are mentioned. See his Illustrations of Nir. pp. 
70, 71. 

E. V. viii. 44, 12. — Agnih pratnena manmana sumbhanas tan- 
vam svam kavih viprena vavridhe \ " The wise Agni, illuminating 



sect, ii.] 10 THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 127 

his own body at [the sound of] the sage and ancient hymn, has 
become augmented." 

R. V. viii. 55, 11. — Yaya-fii gha te apurvya Indra brahmani 
vrittrahan purutamasah puruhuta vajrivo bhritiih na pra bhara- 
masi | " Indra, slayer of Vrittra, thunderer, invoked of many, 
we [thy] numerous [worshippers] bring to thee, as thy hire, 
hymns which never before existed." 

R. V. viii. 63, 7, 8. — lyam te navyasl matir Agne adhdyi 
asmad a mandra sujdta sukrato amura dasma atithe \ sa te Agne 
santama chanishthd bkavatu priyd tayd vardhasva sushtutah \ 
" Agni, joyful, well-born, wise and wondrous guest, this new 
hymn has been offered to thee by us ; may it be dear; to thee, 
agreeable and pleasant : lauded fey it, do thou increase." 

R. V. viii. 65, 5,6. — . . . Indraih glrbhir havamahe \ Indram 
pratnena manmana marutvantam havamahe ityadi \ 12. (= S. V. 
ii. 340.) Vacham ashtapadxm aham navasraktim ritasprisam \ 
Indrat pari tanvam mame \ 5. "We invoke Indra with songs ; 
we invoke Indra, attended by the Maruts, with an ancient hymn. 
... 12. I twine round the body of Indra a verse of eight 
syllables and nine lines, abounding in sacred truth." (This 
verse is translated and explained by Professor Benfey, Sama- 
veda, p. 255.) 

R. V. ix. 9, 8. — Nu navyase navlyase suktaya sadhaya 
pathah | pratnavad rochaya ruchah \ " Prepare (o Soma) the 
paths for our newest, most recent, hymn ; and, as of old, cause- 
the lights to shine." 

R. V. ix. 42, 2. — Esha pratnena manmana devo devebhyah 
pari | dharaya [qu. dharaya1~\ pavate sutah \ "This god, 
poured forth to the gods, with an ancient hymn, purines with 
his stream." 

R. V. ix. 91, 5. — Sa pratnavad navyase visvavara suktaya 
pathah krinuhi prachah ityadi \ " god, who possessest all 
good, make, as of old, forward paths for this new hymn." 

R. V. ix. 99, 4 (= S. V. ii. 983). — Tain gathaya puranya 
punanam abhi anushata \ uto kripanta dhltayo devanam nama 



128 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

bibhratlJi \ " They praised the pure god with an ancient song ; 
and hymns embracing the names of the gods have supplicated 
him." (Benfey translates the last clause differently.) 

R. V. x. 4, 6. — ... Jyam te Agne navyasl manisha ityadi \ 
" This is for thee, Agni, a new hymn," etc. 

R. V. x. 89, 3. — Samanam asmay anapavrid archa xmaya 
divo asamam brahma navy am ityadi \ " Sing (to Indra) a new 
and unceasing hymn, worthy of him [?], and unequalled in earth 
or heaven [?]." 

R. V. x. 91, 13. — Imam pratnaya sushtutim namyaslm voche- 
yam asmay usate srinotu nah \ " I will address to this ancient 
[deity] my new praises, which he desires ; may he listen to us." 

"R. V. x. 96, 11. — . . . Navyam navyam haryasi manma nu 
priyam ityadi \ " Thou delightest in ever new hymns, which 
are dear to thee," etc. 

Sect. III. — Passages of the Rig-veda, in which the rishis describe 
themselves as the composers of the hymns. 

In this section, I propose to quote, first of all, those passages 
in which the rishis distinctly speak of themselves as the authors 
of the hymns, and express no consciousness whatever of deriving 
assistance or inspiration from any supernatural source. I 
shall then adduce some further texts in which, though nothing 
is directly stated regarding the composition of the hymns, there 
is at the same time nothing which would lead the reader to 
imagine that the rishis looked upon them as anything else than 
the offspring of their own minds. 

I shall arrange the quotations in which the rishis distinctly 
claim the authorship, according to the particular verb which 
is employed to express this idea. These verbs are (1) kri, " to 
make," (2) tax (= the Greek reKTalvofiai,), " to fabricate," and 
(3)jan, "to beget, generate, or produce," with others which are 
less explicit. 

I. — I proceed to adduce the passages in which (1) the verb 



sect, in.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VED1C HYMNS. 129 

kri, "to make," is applied to the composition of the hymns. 
(Compare R. V. vii. 66, 6, already quoted in the last section.) 

E. V. i. 20, 1. — Ay am deoaya janmane stomo viprebhir asaya \ 
akari ratna-dhatamah. \ " This hymn, conferring wealth, has 
been made to the divine race, by the sages, with their mouth 
[or in presence of the gods]." 

R. V. i. 31, 18. — Etena Ague brahmand vavridhasva saktl va 
yat te chakrima video va\ " Grow, o Agni, by this prayer which 
we have made to thee through [or according to] our power, or 
our knowledge." 

R. V. i. 61, 16. — Eva te hariyojana suvrikti Indra brahmani 
Gotamasah akran \ " Thus, o Indra, yoker of steeds, have the 
Gotamas made for thee pure [or beautiful] hymns." 

R. V. i. 117, 25. — Etani vam Asvina viryani pra purvyani 
ayavah avochan \ brakma krinvanto vrishana yuvabhyam suvi- 
raso vidatham a vadema \ "These, your ancient exploits, o 
As'vins, our fathers have declared. Let us, who are strong in 
bold men, making a hymn for you, o bountiful gods, utter our 
offering of praise." 

R. V. ii. 39, 8. — Etani vam.Asvina vardhanani brahma stomam 
Gritsamadasah akran \ "These magnifying prayers, [this] 
hymn, o Asvins, the Gritsamadas have made for you." 

R. V. iii. 30, 20. — Svaryavo matibhis tubhyafk vipra Indraya 
vahah Kusikasah akran \ " Seeking heaven, the sage Kus'ikas 
have made a hymn with praises to thee, o Indra." (The word 
vahah is stated by Sayana to be = stotra, " a hymn.") 

R. V. iv. 6, 11. — Akari brahma samidhana tubhyam ityadi \ 
" kindled [Agni], a prayer has been made to thee." 

R. V. iv. 16, 20.— jEfc&tf Indraya vrishabhaya vriskne brahma 
akarma Bhriyavo na ratkam | ... 21. Akari te harivo brahma 
navyam dhiya syama rathyah sadasah \ " Thus have we made 
a prayer for Indra, the productive, the vigorous, as the Bhrigus 
[fashioned] a car. ... 21. A new prayer has been made for thee, 
o lord of steeds. May we, through our hymn (or rite) become 
possessed of chariots and perpetual wealth." 



130 THE EISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

B. V. yii. 35, 14.— Aditya Rudra Vasavo jushanta (the 
Atharva-veda has jushantam) idam brahma kriyamanam navl- 
yah | srinvantu no divyah parthivaso gojata ityadi \ " May the 
Adityas, Budras, and Vasus receive with pleasure this new 
prayer which is being made. May the gods of the air, the 
earth, and the sky hear us." 

E. V. vii. 37, 4. — Vayam nu te dasvamsah syama brahma 
krinvantah ityadi \ " Let us offer oblations to thee, making 
prayers," etc. 

E. V. vii. 97, 9. — lyam nam Brahmanaspate suvriktir brahma 
Indraya vajrine akari \ " Brahmanaspati, this pure hymn, 
[this] prayer has been made for thee, and for Indra, the thun- 
derer." 

E. V. viii. 51, 4. — Aydhi krinavama te Indra brahmani vard- 
dhana ityadi \ " Come, Indra : let us make prayers, which mag- 
nify thee," etc. r 

E. V. x. 54, 6. — . . . Adha priyam bhusham Indraya manma 
brahmakrito Vrihadukthad avachi \ "... An acceptable and 
honorific hymn has been uttered to Indra by Vrihaduktha, maker 
of prayers." 

E. V. x. 101, 2.—Mandrd krinudhvam dhiya a tanudhvam 
navam aritra-paranlm krinudhvam \ " Make hymns, prepare 
prayers, make a ship propelled by oars." 

It is possible that in some of these passages the verb kri may 
have merely the signification which the word make has in Eng- 
lish when we speak of " making supplications," etc., in which 
case it of course means to offer up, rather than to compose. But 
this cannot be the case in such passages as E. V. iv. 16, 20 
(p. 129), where the rishi speaks of making the hymn as the 
Bhrigus made a chariot. And such an interpretation would be 
altogether inadmissible in the case of the texts which I next 
proceed to cite. 

II. — Passages in which the word tax, " to fashion, or fabri- 
cate," is applied to the composition of the hymns. 

E. V. i. 62, 13. — Sanayate Gotamah Indra navyam ataxad 



seot. m.] TO THE OEIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 131 

brahma hariyojandya ityddi \ " Nodhas, descendant of Gotama, 
fashioned this new hymn for [thee], Indra, who art of old, and 
who yokest thy steeds," etc. 

E. V. i. 130, 6. — Imam te vdcham vasilyantah Ayavo ratham 
na dhlrah svapa ataxishuh sumndya tvdm ataxishuh \ " Desir- 
ing wealth, men have fashioned for thee this hymn, as a 
skilful workman [fabricates] a car, and thus they have disposed 
{lit. fashioned) thee to (confer) happiness." 

R. V. i. 171, 2. — Esha vah stomo Maruto namasvdn hridd 
tashto manasd dhayi devdh \ " This reverential hymn, o divine 
Maruts, fashioned by the heart, has been presented by the 
mind [or, according to Sayana, ' let it be received by you with 
a favourable mind']." 

R. V. ii. 19, 8. — Eva te Gritsamadah sura manma avasyavo 
na vayunani taxuli \ "Thus, o hero, have the Gritsamadas, 
desiring succour, fashioned for thee a hymn, as men make 
roads." (Sayana explains vayuna by " road ; " but it generally 
means knowledge.) 

R. V. ii. 35, 2. — ImaM su asmai hridali a sutashtam mantram 
vochema kuvid asya vedat \ " Let us address to him from the 
heart this well-fashioned hymn ; may he be aware of it." 

R. V. v. 2, 11. — EtaHi te stomafh tuvi-jata vipro rathafii na 
dhlrah svapa ataxam \ " I, a sage, have fabricated this hymn 
for thee, o powerful [deity], as a skilful workman fashions a 
car." 

R. V. v. 29, 15. — Indra brahma kriyamand jushasva yd te 
savishtha navyd akarma | vastreva bhadrd sukritd vasuyuh 
rat ham na dhlrah svapd ataxam \ " mighty Indra, regard 
with favour the prayers which are made, the new [prayers] 
which we have made for thee. Desirous of wealth, I \&Ye fabri- 
cated them like beautiful well-fashioned garments, as a skilful 
workman [constructs] a car." (Compare R. V. iii. 39, 2; 
above, p. 123). 

R. V. v. 73, 10. — Imd brahmani vardhand Asvibhydm, santu 
santamd \ yd taxdma rathdn iva awchdma brihad namah \ 



132 THE EISHIS, AND THEIE OPINIONS IN EEGAED [ohai\ ii. 

" May these magnifying prayers which we have fashioned, like 
cars, be pleasing to the As'vins : we have uttered great adora- 
tion." 

R. V. vi. 32, 1 (= S. V. i. 322).— Apurvya purutamani asmai 
make viraya tavase turaya \ virapsine vqjrine santamani vachamsi 
asa sthaviraya taxam \ " To this great hero, vigorous, ener- 
getic, the adorable, unshaken thunderer, I have with my mouth 
fabricated copious and pleasing prayers, which had never before 
existed." 

R. V. vi. 16, 47. — A te Agne richa havir hrida tashtam 
bharamasi \ " In this verse, Agni, we bring to thee an oblation 
fabricated by the heart." (Comp. R. V. iii. 39, 1, in p. 123.) 

R. V. vii. 7, 6. — Ete dyumnebhir visvam atiranta mantram ye 
va aram narya ataxan \ " These men who have skilfully fabri- 
cated the hymn, have by their praises [?] augmented all [their 
possessions ?]." 

R. V. vii. 64, 4. — Yo vain, garttam manasa taxad etam 
urddhvaini dhitiim krinavad dharayachcka \ " May he who with 
his mind fashioned for you (Mitra and Varuna) this car, make 
and sustain the lofty hymn." (The same expression urddhva 
dhltih occurs in R. V. i. 119, 2.) 

R. V. viii. 6, 33. — Uta brahmanya vayaih tubhyam pravriddha 
vajrivo vipra ataxrnajwase \ " mighty thunderer, we, who are 
sage, have fabricated prayers [or ceremonies] for thee, that we 
may live." (I take brahmanya for the neuter plural, as it has 
no visarga in my copy of the R. V.) 

R. V. x. 39, 14. — Etam vam stomam Asvinav akarma ataxama 
Bhrigavo na ratham \ ni amrixama yoshanam na maryye nityam 
na sicnum tanayam dadhanah \ " This hymn, Asvins, we have 
made for you ; we have fabricated it as the Bhrigus [constructed] 
a car [or we have, like the Bhrigus, fabricated a car] ; we have 
decorated it, as a bride for her husband, continuing the series [of 
our praises] like an unbroken line of descendants." 

(The following is Sayana's comment on this passage, for a 
copy of which I am indebted to Professor Muller : He Asoinau 



sect, m.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 133 

vam yuvayor etam yathoktam stomam stotram akarma akurma \ 
Tad etad aha \ Bhrigavo na Bhrigava ina ratham ataxdma 
vayam stotram samskritavaniah \ karma-yogad Ribhavo Bhriga- 
vali uchyante \ athava rathakdrd Bhrigavdh \ hificha vayafh, 
nityafh sdsvatani tanayam ydgddindm karmandni tanitdrant 
sUnum na aurasam putram iva stotram dadhand dhdrayanto 
martye manitshye nyamrixdma yuvayoh stutim nitaram samskri- 
avantah \ " Asvins, we have made this preceding hymn or 
praise of you. He explains this. Like the Bhrigus, we have 
made a car, we have carefully constructed a hymn. The Eibhus 
are, from this work being ascribed to them [?], styled Bhrigus ; 
or bhrigus are chariot-makers. Moreover, maintaining this 
praise as a constant perpetuator (like a legitimate son) of sacri- 
fice and other rites, we have polished, i.e., carefully composed a 
celebration of you among men [?]". (In this comment the word 
yoshana is left unexplained. In verse 12 of this hymn the 
Asvins are supplicated to come in a car fleeter than thought, 
constructed for them by the Eibhus : — a tena yatam manaso 
jamyasa ratham yam vam Ribhavas chakrur Asvina \) 

R. V. x. 80, 7. — Agnaye brahma Ribhavas tataxuh \ " The 
Ribhus [or the wise] fabricated a hymn for Agni." 

III. — I next quote some texts in which the hymns are spoken of 
a&heing generated by therishis. (Comp.R.V. vii. 93, l,inp. 125.) 

R. V. iii. 2. 1. — Yaisvanaraya dhishanam ritavridhe ghritam 
na putam Agnaye janamasi \ " We generate a hymn, like pure 
butter, for Agni Vaisvanara, who promotes our sacred rites." 

R. V. vii. 15, 4. — Navam nu stomam Agnaye divah syendya 
jijanam \ vasvah kuvid vandti nah \ " I have generated a new 
hymn to Agni, the falcon of the sky ; who bestows on us wealth 
in abundance." 

R. V. vii. 22, 9. — Ye chapurve rishayo ye cha nutnah Indra 
brahmdni janayanta viprali \ " Indra, the wise rishis, both 
ancient and modern, have generated prayers." 

R. V. vii. 26, 1. — Na somah Indram asuto mamada na 
abrahmano maghavdnani sutasah I tasmdy uktham janaye yaj 



134 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

jujoshad nrivad navlyah srinavad yatha nah \ " The soma 
cheers not Indra unless it be poured out ; nor do libations 
[gratify] Maghavan when offered without a priest. To him I 
generate a hymn such as may please him, that, after the manner 
of men, he may hear our new [song]." 

R. V. vii. 31, 11. — . . . Suvriktim Indraya brahmajanayanta 
viprah \ " The sages generated a pure hymn and a prayer for 
Indra." 

R. V. vii. 94, 1, 2 (= 8. V. ii. 266). — Iyam vam asya man- 
manah Indragnl purvya-stutir abhrad vrishtir iva qjani \ 
srinutam jaritur haoam ityadi \ " Tbe excellent praise of this 
hymn [or the excellent hymn of this sage] has been generated 
[or, has sprung] for you, Indra and Agni, like rain from a cloud. 
Hear the invocation of your worshipper," etc. (Benfey thinks 
manman, " spirit," is to be understood of Soma, whose hymn, i.e., 
the sound of his dropping, resembles the falling of rain. The 
scholiast of the S. V. makes manman = stotri, " worshipper"). 

R. V. viii. 43, 2. — Asmai te pratiharyate Jatavedo vicharshane 
Agne janami sushtutim \ " Wise Agni Jatavedas, I generate a 
hymn for thee, who receivest it with favour." 

R. V. viii. 77, 4. — A tva ayam arka utaye vavarttati yant 
Gotama ajyanan \ " This hymn which the Gotamas have 
generated, incites thee to succour us." 

R. V. viii. 84, 4, 5. — Srudhi havam Tiraschyah Indra yas tva 
saparyali suvlryasya gomato rayah piirdhi mahan asi \ Indra 
yas te navvyasim g'vram mandram ajljanat ckikitvin-manasam 
dhiyam pratnam ritasya pipyushim \ "Hear, Indra, the invoca- 
tion of Tiraschi, thy worshipper ; replenish him with wealth in 
strong men and in cattle, for thou art great. Indra [do this for 
him] who has generated for thee a new and exhilarating hymn, 
springing from an intelligent mind, an ancient mental product, 
full of sacred truth." 

(These verses occur also in the Sama-veda ii. 233, 234, and 
are translated by Professor Benfey, at pp. 230, and 250, of his 
edition. The hymn referred to in this passage is apparently 



sect, m.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 135 

designated as both new and old. How can it be both ? It may- 
have been an old hymn re-written and embellished ; ancient in 
substance, though new in expression. Compare St. John's 
Gospel, xiii. 34, and the First Epistle of St. John, ii. 7, 8, and 
iii. 11.) 

E. V. ix. 73, 2. — . . . madhor dharabhir janayanto arkam 
it priyam Indrasya tanvam avlvridhan | "Together with the 
honied streams, generating the hymn, they have augmented the 
beloved body of Indra." 

E. V. ix. 95, 1 (= S. V. i. 530). — . . . ato matir janayata 
svadhdbhih \ "Wherefore generate hymns with the oblations." 
(Professor Benfey makes janayata the 3rd person singular of 
the imperfect middle, and applies it to Soma). 

E. V. x. 7, 2. — Ima Agne malayas tubhyam jdtdh gobhir 
asvair abhi grinanti radhah \ " These hymns, Agni, generated 
for thee, supplicate [?] wealth with [or celebrate thy wealth in] 
cows and horses." 

E. V. x. 23, 5, 6, 7. — Yo pacha vivacho mridhravachah puru 
sahasra asiva jaghana \ Tat tad id asya paumsyam grinlmasi 
pita iva yas tavishim vavridhe savah \ stomam te Indra Vimada 
ajljanann apurvyam purutamaM sudanave \ Vidma hi asya 
bhojanam inasya yad a pasuin na gopah karamahe \ ma kir nah 
end sakhyd viyaushus tava cha Indra Vimadasya cha risheh \ 
Vidma hi te pramatim devajami-vad asme te santu sakhyd sivani \ 
" Who (Indra) with his voice slew many thousand of the wicked 
uttering confused and hostile cries. We laud his several acts of 
valour, who, like a father, augmented [?] our vigour and our 
strength. For thee, o Indra, who art bountiful, the Vimadas 
have generated a copious hymn, which never before existed 
{apurvya) ; for we know what is gratifying to this our master ; 
and we collect it together, as a cowherd assembles his cattle. 
Indra, may that friendship of ours never be dissolved, which 
exists between thee and the rishi Vimada: for we know thy 
wisdom, o god; may thy friendship be favourable to us, like 
that of a kinsman." 



136 THE R1SHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

R. V. x. 67, 1. — Imaih dhiyam saptaslrshmm pita ndh rita- 
prajatam brihatlm avindat \ turiyam svij janayad visvajanyo 
Ayasya uktham Indraya sansan \ " Our father hath discovered 
[or invented] this great, seven-headed hymn, born of sacred 
truth ; Ayasya, friend of all men, celebrating Indra, has 
generated the fourth song of praise." (In his Lexicon, Eoth 
gives Ayasya as a proper name ; but says it may also be an 
adjective with the sense of " unwearied.") 

R. V. x. 91, 14. — Kllala-pe soma-prishtaya ved/iase hrida 
rnatvm janaye charum Agnaye \ " With my heart I generate a 
beautiful hymn for Agni, the drinker of nectar, the soma- 
sprinkled, the wise." (See also R. V. i. 109, 1, 2, which will be 
quoted below.) 

IV. — In the following texts the verbal root ri, "to move, 
send forth," etc., used with or without a preposition, is applied to 
the utterance or (it may even mean) the production of hymns. 

R. V. i. 116, 1. — Nasatyabhyam barhir iva pravriaje stoman 
iyarmi abhriya iva vatah \ yav arbhagaya Yimadaya jayam sena- 
juva ni ukatuh rathena \ "In like manner as I spread the sacri- 
ficial grass to the Nasatyas (Asvins), so do I send forth to them 
hymns, as the wind [drives] the clouds ; to them (I say), who 
bore off to the youthful Vimada his bride in a chariot which 
outstripped the enemy's host." 

R. V. vii. 61, 2. — Pra vain sa Mitra- Varunau ritava vipro 
manmani dirgha-srud iyartti \ Yasya brahmani sukratu avathah 
a yat kratva na saradah prinaithe [?] | " The devout sage, 
deeply versed in sacred lore, sends forth hi3 hymns to you, 
o Mitra and Varuna. You, mighty gods, receive his prayers 
with favour, since ye fill [prolong?], as it seems, his autumns 
by your power." 

R. V. viii. 12, 31. — Imaih te Indra sushtutiih viprah iyartti 
dkitibhih \jamim pada iva pipratlm pra adhvare \ "The sage, 
with praises, sends forth to thee this hymn, which like a sister 
follows [?] thy steps in the sacrifice." 

R. V. viii. 13, 26. — . . . Ritad iyarmi te dhiyam manoyujam \ 



seoi. iu.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMXS. 137 

"... From the sacred ceremony I send forth a prayer, issuing 
from my mind [or, which will reach thy heart ?] " 

R. V. x. 116, 9. — Pra Indragnibhydm suvachasydm iyarmi 
sindhdv iva prerayam navam arkaih \ " I send forth a [hymn] 
with beautiful words to Indra and Agni ; with my praises I have, 
as it were, launched a ship on the sea." 

(Compare R. V. ii. 42, 1, spoken of Indra in the form of the 
bird called kapinjala, a sort of partridge : Iyartti vdcham ariteva 
navam \ " It sends forth a voice, as a rower propels a boat." 
See also R. V. x. 101, 2, quoted above, p. 130.) 

V. — In the following passages, other verbs are employed to 
denote the composition or presentation of hymns. 

R. V. i. 61, 2. — Indraya hridd manasa manisha pratndya 
patye dhiyo marjayanta \ " To Indra, the ancient lord, they 
prepared [or polished] hymns [or ceremonies] with the heart, 
mind, and understanding." 

R. V. i. 61, 4. — Asmai id u stomam safhhinomi rathafh na 
tashtd iva tat-sindya ityddi | "To him (Indra) I send forth a 
hymn, as a carpenter a car, for his food," etc. 

R. V. i. 94, 1 (= S. V. i. 66). — Imam stomam arhate Jdtave- 
dase ratham iva sam mahemd mamshayd \ bhadrd hi nah prama- 
tir asya samsadi Ague sakhye ma rishamd vayam tava \ " Let 
us with our intellects decorate this hymn for the adorable Jata- 
vedas like a car, for his wisdom is favourable to us in the 
assembly. Agni, in thy friendship may we never suffer." (The 
root mah means to honour or worship. I have partly followed 
Benfey's translation.) 

There i3 to be found in the hymns a great multitude of pas- 
sages in which the rishi speaks of presenting his hymns and 
prayers to the various deities who are the objects of his worship, 
without directly claiming for himself the authorship of those 
compositions. The natural inference to be drawn from the 
expressions which we shall find to be employed in most of the 
cases to which I refer, would, I think, be that the personality of 
the rishi himself was uppermost in his mind, and that he was 



138 THE EISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN EEGARD [chap. ii. 

not conscious that the praises which he was uttering to the 
gods proceeded from any other source than his own unaided 
faculties. Of this description are the following texts, which 
represent a manner of thinking and speaking very prevalent in 
the hymns. 

R. V. i. 60, 5. — Tarn tva vayam patim Agne rayinam pra- 
samsamo matibhir Gotamdsah \ " We, the Gotamas, praise with 
hymns thee, Agni, the lord of riches." 

R. V. i. 77, 5. — Eva Agnir Gotamebhir ritava viprebkir as- 
toshta jdtavedah \ " Thus has the holy Agni Jatavedas been 
celebrated by the sage Gotamas." 

R. V. i. 78, 5. — Avochdma Rahugand Agnaye madkumad 
vachah \ dyumnair abhi pra nonumah \ " We, the Rahuganas, 
have uttered to Agni a honied speech; we laud him with 
eulogies." 

R. V. i. 91, 11. — Soma glrbhis tva vayam vardhayamo vacho- 
vidali | sumrillko na avisa \ " Soma, we who are skilled in speech 
magnify thee with praises ; do thou enter into us, bringing joy." 

R. V i. 102, 1. — Imam te dhiyam prabhare maho mahlm asya 
stotre dhishana yat te anqje | " I present to thee, the great 
(god) this great hymn, because thy understanding has taken 
pleasure in my praises." 

(Sayana renders prabhare by prakarshena sampadayami | " I 
carefully make or accomplish." Roth renders anaje " has been 
honoured." See his Lexicon, under the word a&j.) 

R. V. i. 183, 6. — Atarishma tamasas param asya prati vam 
stomo Asvinav adhayi \ " We have crossed over this darkness ; 
a hymn, o Asvins, has been addressed to you." 

R. V. iv. 3, 16. — Eta visoa vidushe tubhyafii vedho nithani 
Agne ninya vachamsi \ nivachana kavaye kavyani asaihsiskam 
matibhir viprah ukthaih \ " Prudent Agni, to thee, who art 
wise, [have I uttered] all these songs and mysterious words ; to 
thee, who art a bard, have I, a sage, uttered these hymns, these 
poems, with meditations and praises." 

R. V. iv. 32, 12.— Avivridhanta Gotama Indra tve stomavd- 



sect, in.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 139 

hasah | "The'Gotamas, Indra, bringing hymns to thee, have 
magnified thee." 

R. V. v. 11, 5. — Tubhya idam Agne madhumattamam vachas 
tubham manuka iyam astu sain, hride \ Tvdm girah sindhum iva 
avanir mahlr a prinanti savasa vardhayanti cha | " Agni, may 
this sweetest of prayers, may this hymn (mental production) be 
pleasant to thy heart. As great rivers fill the ocean, so do the 
words of praise fill thee, and augment thee with strength." 

R. V. v. 22, 4. — Agne chikiddhi asya nah idam vachah sahasya \ 
Tarn tva susipra dampate stomal?' vardhanti Atrayo glrbhih sum- 
bhanti Atrayali \ " Vigorous Agni, know these our words ; thee, 
with the beautiful nose, the lord of the house, the Atris magnify 
with praises, the Atris decorate with hymns." 

R. V. v. 45, 4. — Suktebhir vo vachobhir devajushtair Indra 
nu Agni avase huvadhyai \ ukthebhir hi sma kavayah suyajfia 
dvivasanto Maruto yajanti \ " Let me invoke you for help, o 
Indra and Agni, with well-spoken words, such as are acceptable 
to the gods ; for sages skilled in sacrifice, when performing 
sacred rites, quick as the Maruts [?], worship with hymns." 

R. V. vi. 38, 3. — Tam vo dhiya paramayd purajdm ajaram 
Indram abhi anushi arkaih ityadi \ " I adore thee, the ancient, 
imperishable Indra with an excellent hymn and with praises." 

R. V. vii. 67, 5. — Prdchlm u deva Asvina dhiyam me amri- 
dhrdtft sataye kritam vasilyum \ " divine Asvins, make my 
early and unwearied prayer which supplicates wealth, to be 
productive of blessings." 

R. V. vii. 85, 1. — Punlshe vam araxasam manlshdm somam 
Indraya Varunaya juhvat \ ghrita-pratikam Ushasam na devim 
ityadi \ " Offering soma to Indra and Varuna, I purify for you 
twain the sincere hymn, like the goddess Ushas, with glittering 
face." 

R. V. viii. 5, 18. — Asmakam adya vam ayam stomo vahishtho 
antamah \ yuvdbhyam bhulu Asvina \ " May this hymn of ours 
approach near to you, to-day, o As'vins, and be effectual in bear- 
ing you hither." 



140 



THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. n. 



R. V. viii. 8,8. — Kim anye paryasate asmat stomebhir Asvind \ 
putrah Kanvasya vam rishir girbhir Vatso avlvridhat \ " Asvins, 
do others than we [?] sit round you with songs? Vatsa, the son 
of Kanva, has magnified you by his hymns." 

E. V. viii. 27, 11. — Ida hi va upastutim ids, vamasya bhak- 
taye upa vo vi&vavedaso namasyur asrioti \ " For now, possessors 
of all riches, now, in order to obtain wealth, have I, full of devo- 
tion, sent forth to you a hymn." 

R. V. x. 42. 1. — Asta iva suprataram lay am asyan bhushann 
iva prabkara stomam asmai \ vacha viprds tarata vacham aryo 
niramaya jaritah some Indram \ " Like an archer discharging 
his far-shooting arrow, or as it were making decorations, present 
the hymn to Indra. Sages, by your song, overcome the song of 
the enemy ; worshipper, arrest Indra at the soma." 

R. V. x. 63, 17. — Eva Plateh sunur avivridhad vo visve Aditya 
Adite manishl \ isanaso naro amartyena a&tavi jano divyo 
Gayena \ " Thus, all ye Adityas, Aditi, and ye ruling powers, 
has the wise son of Plati magnified you. The celestial race has 
been lauded by the immortal Gaya." (I am unable to say in 
what sense the rishi here speaks of himself as immortal.) 

R. V. x. Ill, l.—^Mamskinah prabharadhvam mamsham yatha 
yatha matayah sanli nrinam \ Indraih satyair a vrayama krite- 
bhih sa hi vlro yirvanasyur vidanali \ " Sages, present the 
prayer, according as are the thoughts of men. Let us by our 
sincere rites stimulate [?] Indra, for he is a hero, he is wise, 
and loves our songs." 

In the following verse, from a hymn in praise of liberality, it 
is said, though no doubt only figuratively, that the true rishi is 
the prince who is bountiful to the priesthood. 

R. V. x. 107, 6.— Tarn eva rishim tarn u brahmanam ahur 
yajfianyam samagam ukthasasam \ sa sukrasya tanvo veda tisro 
yah prathamo daocinaya raradha \ " He it is whom they call a 
rishi, a priest, a pious sacrificer, a chaunter of prayers, a singer 
of hymns ; he it is who knows the three bodies of brilliant 
(Agni),— the man who is most prominent in bestowing gifts." 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 141 

Sect. IV .—Passages of the Rig-veda in which a supernatural character 
is ascribed to the rishis or the hymns. 

In the present section I propose to collect the most distinct 
indications which I have noticed in the vedic hymns of any 
supernatural attributes attaching, in the opinion of the authors, 
either to the rishis themselves, or to their compositions. We 
shall see in the course of this enquiry (I.), that a certain super- 
human character was ascribed by the later rishis, who composed 
the hymns, to some of their predecessors ; (II.) that expressions 
are occasionally employed by the rishis which appear to ascribe 
their compositions to a divine influence generally ; while there 
is a still more numerous set of texts in which the hymns are 
attributed in various forms of phraseology to the agency of one 
or more particular and specified deities ; and (III.) that there 
is a considerable number of passages in which a mysterious or 
magical power is ascribed to the hymns or metres. 

I proceed to furnish specimens of these several classes of 
quotations. 

I. — I adduce some passages which ascribe a superhuman 
character or supernatural faculties to the earlier rishis. These 
are the following : — 

E. V. i. 179, 2. — Ye chid hi purve ritasapah asan sakaih 
devebhir avadann ritani \ te chid avasur ityadi \ " The pious 
sages who lived of old, and who conversed about sacred truths 
with the gods, led a conjugal life," etc. 

The sixty-second hymn of the tenth Mandala contains the 
following passage regarding the Angirases (see above, p. 120) : — 

1. The Angirases. — R. V. x. 62, 1, 3. — Ye yajfiena daxinaya 
samaktah Indrasya sakhyam amritatvam anasa \ tebhyo bhadram 
Angiraso vah astu prati gribhnlta manavafh sumedhasah \ 3. 
Ye ritena suryam arohayan dim, aprathayan prithivlm mataram 
vi ityadi \ " Blessings be on the Angirases who, sanctified by 
sacrifice and liberality, attained the friendship of Indra and 
immortality. Do ye, o sage Angirases, graciously receive the 



142 THE EISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

race of Manu. 3. They who by sacrifice caused the sun to 
ascend the sky ; and spread out our mother earth," etc. (My 
copy of the E. V. reads in the first line anasa. Perhaps it 
should be anasufy, as in R. V. i. 164, 23.) 

This is succeeded by the following verses : — 

R. V. x. 62, 4, 5. — Ayaih ndbhd vadati valguvo grille deva- 
putrdh rishayas tat srinotana ... 1 virupdsah id rishayas te id 
gambhlra-vepasah \ Angirasah sunavas te Agneh parijajfiire | 
" This sage addresses you, brilliant beings, within [?] the house. 
Hear this, ye rishis, sons of the gods. The rishis are various in. 
character, profound in emotion ; they are the sons of Angiras ; 
they have been born from. Agni." 

(The last verse is quoted in the Nirukta, xi. 17. See Roth's 
illustrations of the passage.) 

2. Vasishtha. — A supernatural character is attributed to 
Vasishtha also in the following passage (portions of which have 
been already quoted and illustrated in Part First, pp. 75 ff. 
and 122.) 

R. V. vii. 33, 7 ff. — Trayah krinvanti bhwoanasya retas tisrah 
prajah drydh jyotir-agrah \ trayo gharmasah ushasam sachante 
sarvan it tan anuvidur Vasishthah \ 8. Suryasyeva vaxatho 
jyotir eskam samudrasyeva mahima gabhirdh \ vatasyeva prqjavo 
na anyena stomo Vasishtha anu etave vah \ 9. Te id ninyam 
hridayasya praketaih sakasra-valsam abhi saficharanti \ yamena 
tatam paridhitn vayantah apsarasah upa sedur Vasishthah \ 10. 
Vidyuto jyotih parisafijihanam Mitra - Varuna yad apasyatam 
tvd | tat te janma uta ekaih Vasishtha Agastyo yat tva visah 
ajabhara | 11. JJtasi Maitravaruno Vasishtha Urvasyah brahman 
manaso 'dhi jatah \ drapsam shannam brahmand daivyena visve 
devah pushkare tvd adadanta \ 12. Sah praketah ubhayasya 
pravidvdn sahasra-danah uta va saddnah \ yamena tatam pari- 
dhim vayishyan apsarasah parijajfie Vasishthah | 13. Satre ha 
jdtav ishitd namobhih kumbhe retah sisichituh samanam \ tato ha 
Mdnah udiydya madhydt tato jdtam rishim dhur Vasishtham \ 
14. Uktha-bhritam sdma-bhritam bibhartti grdvdnam bibhrad 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OP THE VEDIC HYMNS. 143 

pra vadati agre \ upa enam adhvaik sumanasyamanali a vo 
gachhati pratrido Vasishthali | "Three [gods] create the 
fecundating principle of the world ; [there exist] three ex- 
cellent productions of which light is the first : three fires attend 
upon the dawn : all these the Vasishthas know. The splendour 
of these [sages] is like the glory of the sun ; their grandeur is 
profound as that of the ocean ; their impetuosity is like that of 
the wind ; your hymns, o Vasishthas, cannot be rivalled by any 
other bard. Through the longings of their hearts they seek 
after the mysterious [tree ?] with a thousand branches ; weaving 
the veil extended by Yama [Agni ? see E. V. i. 66, 4.] the 
Vasishthas sat near the Apsaras. When Mitra and Varuna saw 
thee embracing the gleam of the lightning, that was thy birth, 
Vasishtha, and [thou hadst] one [other], when Agastya brought 
thee from the house. And, Vasishtha, thou art the son of Mitra 
and Varuna, born, o priest, from the mind of Urvasi; all the 
gods received thee— the drop fallen through divine energy, — 
in the vessel. He the wise, knowing both [worlds ?], lavishing 
a thousand gifts or all gifts, Vasishtha, seeking to weave the 
veil extended by Yama, was produced from the Apsaras. Born 
at the sacrifice, and impelled by adorations, they [Mitra and 
'Varuna] let the same procreative energy fall into the jar; from 
the midst of this Mana (Agastya) issued forth ; from this 
men say the rishi Vasishtha was produced. He directs [?] 
the singer of the uktha and the chaunter of the saman ; handling 
the soma stones, he leads the hymn ; wait on him with reverence 
and good-will ; Vasishtha comes to you." 

(Two of these verses are quoted in the Mrukta, verse 8, in xi. 
20, and verse 11, in v. 13, 14. See also Prof. Eoth's illustra- 
tions, p. 64, where he states his opinion that the foregoing 
verses which describe the miraculous birth of Vasishtha in the 
style of the epic mythology, are a later addition to an older 
hymn. I am unable to state the meaning of the word 
pratridah.) 

The two following passages also have reference to knowledge 



144 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

supernaturally communicated, or favours divinely conferred on 
Vasishtha. See Part First, p. 77. 

R. V. vii. 87, 4. — Uvacha me Yaruno medhirdya trill sapta 
nama aghnyd bibhartti \ vidvan padasya guhyd na vochad 
yugdya viprdh upardya sixan \ " Varuna said to me, the sage, 
' the cow has thrice seven names.' The wise and intelligent 
[god] instructing us, has declared the secrets of the celestial 
region [?] to this later generation." 

R. V. vii. 88, 4. — Yasishthafh ha Yaruno ndvi adhad rishim 
chakdra svapa mahobhih \ stofdram viprah sudinatve ahndm yad 
nu dyavas tatanan yad ushasali \ " Varuna has placed Vasish- 
tha in the ship ; the beneficent [deity] has, by his mighty deeds, 
made him a rishi, [and caused] his worshipper to enjoy a for- 
tunate existence, so that his days and dawns have been pro- 
longed." (See Part First, p. 77, note 32 ; and R. V. x. 101, 2, 
and x. 116, 9, in pp. 130 and 137, above.) 

3. Visvamitra. — In one or more of the texts which I shall 
next produce, a superhuman character is ascribed to Visvamitra 
and the Kusikas. 

R. V. iii. 29, 15. — Amitrayudho marutam iva prayak pratha- 
majah brahmano visvam id viduh \ dyumnavad brahma Ku'sika&a 
erire ekah eko dame Agnim samldhire \ " Combating their foes, 
like hosts of Maruts, the first-born of Brahma [or prayer ?] are 
masters of all knowledge; the Kusikas have uttered a prayer 
accompanied with oblations ; every one of them ha3 kindled 
Agni in his house." (See Part First, p. 125, note.) 

R. V. iii. 43, 5. — Kuvid ma gopaih karase janasya kuvid raja- 
nam Maghavann rijishan \ kuvid ma rishim papivamsafii sutasya 
kuvid me vasvah amritasya sixah \ " Thou assuredly makest me 
a shepherd of men ; thou assuredly makest me a king, o im- 
petuous Maghavan ; thou assuredly makest me a rishi, a drinker 
of the soma ; thou wilt assuredly bestow upon me imperishable 
wealth." (See First Part, p. 85.) 

R. V. iii. 53, Q.—Makan rishir deaajah devajutah astabhnat 
sindhum arnavaih, nrichaxah \ Yisadmitro yad avahat Sudasam 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 145 

apriyayata Kusikebhir Indrah | " The great rishi (Visvamitra), 
director of men, sprung from the gods, and god-impelled, 
stemmed the watery current. When Vis'vamitra guided Sudas, 
Indra was propitiated through the Kusikas." (See Part First, 
pp. 124, 125. Indra himself is called a Kaus'ika in R. V. i. 10, 
11. See Part First, p. 82.) 

According to R. V. k. 87, 3, certain mysterious knowledge is 
said to have been possessed by Us'anas : Rishir viprah pura-eta 
jananam ribhur dhira Usana kavyena \ sa chid viveda nihitam yad 
asam aplchyaih guhyafh nama gonam \ " A wise rishi, a leader of 
men, skilful, and prudent, is Us'anas, through his insight as a seer ; 
he has known the hidden mysterious name applied to these cows." 

In some hymns of the tenth Mandala, the rishis are spoken 
of as "seeing'' different objects of contemplation; thus in 
R. V. x. 72, 1, 2, it is said : Demnam nu vayaih jana praw- 
chama vipanyaya \ uktheshu sasyamaneshu yah pa'syad uttare 
yuge | Brahmanaspatir eta sam karmara iva adhamat devandm 
purvye yuge asatah sad ajayata | " Let us, from the love of 
praise, celebrate in chaunted songs the births of the gods — any 
of us who in this later generation may behold them. Brah- 
manaspati has kindled these births, as a blacksmith [blows a 
flame] : in the earliest age of the gods, the existent sprang from 
the non-existent." 

(The first of these verses is translated by Prof. Benfey in his 
Glossary to the Sama-veda, p. 154.) 

And in R. V. x. 79, 1, the rishi says : Apasyam asya mahato 
mahitvam amartyasya martya&u vixu \ "I beheld the greatness 
of this great immortal among the race of mortals." (Here, 
however, as Agni is the subject, the poet might easily enough 
see him, while his imagination would supply the figurative attri- 
butes which he goes on to describe.) 

A still more decided instance, however, of this use of the verb 
to see, in the sense of supernatural insight, may be found in 
the verse of the Valakhilya already quoted in Part Second, 
pp. 220, which will be repeated below. 

10 



146 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. n. 

The next two passages speak of the radiance of the rishis. 

E. V. viii. 3, 3 (= S. V. i. 250 and Vaj. S. 33, 81).— Ima u 
tvd puruvaso giro mrdhantu yd mama \ pavaka-varnak suchayo 
wpaschitali abhi stomair anUshata \ " Lord of abundant wealth, 
may these prayers of mine magnify thee ! Pure sages of fiery 
radiance have celebrated thee with hymns." 

E. V. viii. 6, 10. — Aham id hi pituh pari medhdm ritasya 
jagrabha \ aham surya iva ajani \ "I have acquired the wisdom 
of [my] righteous father ; I have become like the sun." 

The following texts, which occur in the last book of the Big- 
veda, speak of tapas ("devotion" or "austerity") being prac- 
tised by the rishis much in the same way a3 the later epic litera- 
ture does. This use of the word is not known in the earlier 
books of the E. V. (See Boehtlingk and Eoth's Lexicon, under 
the word tapas.) 

E. V. x. 109, 4. — Dead etasyam avadanta purve sapta rishayas 
tapase ye nisheduh \ " The ancient gods spoke of her, the seven 
rishis who sat down for devotion." 

E. V. x. 154, 2. — Tapasd ye anddhrisyds tapasd ye svar 
yayuh \ tapo ye chakrire mahas tdms chid eva api gachchatdt \ 
5. Sahasra-nithdh kavayo ye gopayanti suryam rishlms tapas- 
vato Yama tapojan api gachhatdt \ " Come to those who 
through devotion are invincible, who by devotion have gone to 
heaven, who have performed great austerity. 5. Come, Yama, 
to the sages of a thousand songs who guard the sun (see 
Wilson, Vish. Pur. pp. 234, 235), to the devout rishis, whose 
nature is devotion." 

E. V. x. 190, 1. — Ritaficha satyaficha abhlddhdt tapaso adh- 
yajdyata \ tato ratrl ajayata tatah samudrah arnavah \ " Eight 
and truth sprang from kindled devotion ; thence sprang night, 
thence the watery ocean." 

In E. V. x. 167, 1, it is even said that Indra attained heaven 
by austerity : Tvam tapah paritapya ajayah svah \ " By per- 
forming austerity thou didst conquer heaven." 

In some places the gods are said to possess in the most emi- 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 147 

nent degree the qualities of rishis, or kavis. This may imply, 
e converso, that the rishis were conscious of a certain affinity 
with the divine nature, and conceived themselves to participate 
in some degree in the superior wisdom and knowledge of the 
deities. 

E. V. i. 31, 1. — Tvam Ague prathamo Angira rishir devo 
devanam abhavah sivah sakha ityadi \ 2. Tvam Ague prathamo 
Angirastamah kavir devanam paribhiishasi vratam \ " Thou, 
Agni, the earliest rishi Angiras, a god, wast the auspicious friend 
of the gods. . . . Thou, Agni, the earliest and most Angiras-like 
sage, decoratest the ceremonial of the gods." 

E. V. i. 66, 2. — . . . Rishir na stubhva vixu prasastah ityadi \ 
" Like a rishi, who praises [the gods], he (Agni) is famous 
among the people," etc. 

E. V. iii. 21, 3. — . . . Rishih sreshthah samidhyase yajftasya 
pra avita bhava | "Thou, Agni, the most eminent rishi, art 
kindled; be the protector of the sacrifice." 

R. V. v. 29, 1. — . . . Archanti tva marutah puta-daxas tvam 
esham rishir Indra asi dhlrak \ " The Maruts, endowed with 
pure force, worship thee ; thou, Indra, art their rishi." (Sayana, 
however, here renders rishi by drashta, " beholder.") 

E. V. vi. 14, 2. — Agnir id hi prachetah Agnir vedhastamah 
rishih \ " Agni is wise ; Agni is a most sage rishi." 

E. V. viii. 6, 41. — Rishir hi purvaja asi ekah xsanah ojasa 
Indra choshkuyase vasu \ " Thou art an anciently-born rishi, 
who alone rulest by thy might ; Indra, thou lavishest riches." 

E. V. viii. 16, 7. — Indro brahma Indrah rishir Indrah puru- 
puru-hutah \ mahan mahibhih sacMbhih | " Indra is a priest, 
Indra is a rishi, Indra is much invoked ; he is great through his 
great exploits." 

E. V. ix. 96, 18 (= S. V. ii. 526). — Rishimana yah rishikrit 
svar shall sahasranlthah padavili kavinam \ " Soma, rishi-minded, 
rishi-maker, bestower of good, lord of a thousand songs, the 
path [leader ?] of sages," etc. , 

E. V. ix. 107, 7. — . . . Rishir vipro vichaxanas tvam kavir 



148 



THE RISHIS, AND THEIR" OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 



abkavo devavitamah ityadi | "A rishi, a sage, intelligent, thou 
(Soma) wast a poet, most devoted to the gods," etc. 

R. V. x. 27, 22. — . . . Indraya sunvad rishaye cha sixat \ 
"... Let [men] present libations to Indra, and offerings to the 
rishi." 

B,. V. x. 112, 9. — Ni shu slda ganapate ganeshu tvam akur 
mpratamafh, kavinam \ na rite tvat kriyate kifichana are maham 
arkam Maghavans chitram archa \ " Sit, lord of multitudes, 
among our multitudes ; they call thee the greatest of sages [or 
poets] ; nothing is done without, or apart from, thee ; receive, 
Maghavan, our great and beautiful hymn." 

E. V. x. 115, 5. — Agnih kanvatamali kanva-sakha ityadi \ 
" Agni is the greatest of the Kanvas, the friend of Kanva," etc. 

II.— The Vedic rishis, as we have seen, expected to receive from 
their gods every variety of temporal blessings, strength, long life, 
offspring, riches, cattle, rain, food, and victory, and they also 
looked for forgiveness of their offences, and exaltation to paradise, 
to the same benefactors. Hence it would be nothing more than 
we might have anticipated, if we should further find them asking 
their different deities to enlighten their minds, to direct their 
ceremonies, to stimulate their devotion, to augment their powers 
of poetical expression, and to inspire them with religious fervour 
for the composition of their hymns. I think the following pas- 
sages will justify this expectation by showing that the rishis 
(though, as we have seen, they frequently speak of the hymns 
as their own work) did also sometimes entertain the idea that 
their prayers, praises, and ceremonies generally, were super- 
naturally suggested and directed. One of the modes (if not the 
principal one) in which this idea is expressed is, as we shall dis- 
cover, the personification of speech under different appellations. 
The following are the passages to which I refer : they are — 

First, such as refer to the gods generally : 

R. V. i. 37, 4. — Pravah sardhaya ghrishvaye tvesha-dyumnaya 
suskmine i brahma ^devattafii gayata \ "To [that which is] 
your strength, the vigorous, overpowering, energetic, [host of 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 149* 

Maruts] sing the god-given prayer." (See, however, Part 
Second, p. 219, note 174.) 

S. V. i. 299. — Tvasktd no daivyam vachah Parjanyo Brah- 
manaspatih \ putrair bhratribhir Aditir nu patu no dushtaram 
tramanam vachah \ " May Tvastri, Parjanya, and Brahmanas- 
pati [prosper] our divine utterance : may Aditi with her [?] sons 
and brothers prosper our invincible and protective utterance." 

In the next passage, the hymn or prayer is spoken of as 
inconceivable. 

R. V. i. 152, 5. — Achittam brahma jujushur yuvanah pra 
Mitre dhama Varune grinantah | "The youths received with 
joy the incomprehensible prayer, celebrating the glorious abode 
in Mitra and Varuna [?]." 

(Though Sayana, in his comment on this passage, does not 
give to the word yuvanah the sense of youths, he interprets it 
so, and explains it of the Maruts, in his note on R. V. i. 165, 2.) 

In R. V. x. 20, 10, Vimada, a rishi, is connected with the 
immortals: — Agne Vimado manisham urjonapad amritebhih 
sajosha girah avaxat sumatir iyanah ityadi \ " Agni, son of 
strength, Vimada, united with the immortals, hastening, has 
brought to thee a product of thought, and beautiful hymns." 

In the two following texts the gods are said to have generated 
the hymn or prayer : 

R. V. viii. 88, 4. — Sukta-vakam prathamam ad id Agnim ad 
id havir ajanayanta devah | sa esham yajfio abhavat tanupah \ 
" The gods first generated the hymn, then Agni, then the obla- 
tion. This sacrifice was the protector of their life." 

R. V. x. 61, 7. — . . . Svadhyo ajanayan brahma deva Vas- 
toshpatim vratapdm nirataxan \ " The thoughtful gods have 
generated prayer : they have fashioned Vastoshpati the protector 
of sacred rites." 

(Who, however, are the " gods " here intended ? The word deva is 
sometimes understood by Sayana to denote the worshippers ; and 
it may mean no more in these two passages. See Sayana on R. V. 
iii.34, 7, where he makes devebhyah-devana-!tilebhyah8totici\ih.yah.) 



150 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. n. 

In the latter of the two following verses, Yach (speech) is 
said to be divine, and to have been generated by the gods. 
Though Speech is here spoken of generally, and nothiDg is said 
of the hymns, still these seem to have come to be connected 
with her in the minds of the Vedic bards, and to be regarded 
as her most solemn and important expression. 

It. V. viii. 89, 10. — Yad vag vadanti avichetanani rashtri 
devdn'am nishasdda mandrel \ chatasra urjam duduhe paydmsi 
kva svid asyah paramam jagama | 11. Deinm vdcham ajana- 
yanta devas tarn, visvarupali pa'savo vadanti \ sa no mandrel 
isham urjam duhana dhenur vag asman upa susktuta a etu \ 
" When Yach, speaking unintelligible things, queen of the gods, 
sat down, conferring delight, the four regions milked forth 
sustenance and waters : whither has her highest station de- 
parted ? The gods generated the divine Vach ; animals of all 
kinds utter her : may this cow Vach which brings us joy, and 
yields us nourishment and sustenance, — approach us, when we 
celebrate her praises." 

The last verse (as well as It. V. viii. 90, 16, which will be 
quoted below), derives some illustration from the following pas- 
sage of the Brihad Aranyaka Upanishad, p. 982 (p. 251 English 
trans.), in which also Vach is designated as a cow : — Vdcham 
dhenum upastta \ tasyds chatvdrah stanah svahd-karo vaskat- 
kdro kanta-karah svadhd-karah \ tasyd dvau stanau devd upajl- 
vanti svdha-kdran'cka vashat-karaficha kanta-kdram manushydh 
svadhd-kdram pitarah \ tasydh prdna rishabho mano vatsah \ 
" Let a man worship the cow Vach. She has four udders, the 
formulas svdlid, vashat, hanta, and svadha. The gods live upon 
her two udders, svakd and vashat ; men upon hanta ; and the 
patriarchs upon svadha. Breath is her bull ; the mind, her 
calf." 

(The two verses, R. V. viii. 89, 10 and 11, occur in the 
Nirukta, xi. 28, 29. Eoth (in his Illustrations), p. 152, says 
the unintelligible utterance of Vach in verse 10, means thunder. 
Though this be the case, the word appears to have a more 



seot. iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 151 

general signification in the next verse, and to refer to speech in 
general, personified as a divine being. The speech which all 
the animals utter cannot of course be thunder. 

In some of the preceding verses of this hymn there is 
a curious reference made to some sceptical doubts regarding 
the existence of Indra; which I quote here, though uncon- 
nected with the present subject. E. V. viii. 89, 3, 4. — Pra 
su stomam bharata vajayantam Indraya satyam yadi satyam 
asti | na Indro asti iti nema u tva aha ha Im dadarsa kam abhi 
stavama \ Ayam asmi jaritah pasya ma iha visva jatani abhi 
asmi mahna \ ritasya ma pradiso varddhayanti adardiro bhuvana 
dardarlmi | "Present to Indra a hymn soliciting food, a true 
[hymn] if he truly exists. ' Indra does not exist,' says some one : 
' who has seen him ? whom shall we praise ? ' 'I am here, 
worshipper' [answers Indra] ; ' behold me, I surpass all creatures 
in greatness ; the different points of the sacrifice augment me ; 
crushing, I destroy the worlds.'") 

Second : the next set of passages which I shall bring forward 
either refer to Sarasvatl, Vach, Dhishana, etc. (various names of 
the goddess of speech, or different personifications of speech, or 
of prayer), or at least speak of prayer as divine. 

E. V. i. 3, 11, 12. — Chodayitrl sunritanam, chetanti sumatl- 
ndm | yqjftam dadhe Sarasvatl \ . . . dhiyo visva virajati \ 
" Sarasvatl, who furthers the truthful [or our hymns], and who 
stimulates the wise [or our prayers], has sustained our sacrifice. 
. . . She enlightens all intellects." 

E. V. i. 22, 10. — A gnah Agne iha avase Hotram yavishtha 
Bharatlm \ Varutrim Dhishanam vaha \ " Bring here, youthful 
Agni, to our help, the wives- [of the gods], Hotra, Bharati, 
Varutri, and Dhishana." 

(Varutri, "the eligible," may be merely an epithet of 
Dhishana which, according to Sayana = vag-devl, " the goddess 
of speech." 

E. V. i. 31, 11. — Ham akrinvan manushasya sasanlm ityadi \ 
" The gods made Ha to be the instructress of men." (See Pro- 



152 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

fessor Wilson's note on this passage, p. 82 of his translation of 
the R. V. vol i.) 

R. V. i. 109, 1. — . . . Na anya yuvat pramatir asti mahyam 
sa vam dhiyam vajayantim ataxam | 2. ... Athd somasya pra- 
yatl yuvabhyam Indrdgnl stomaih janayami navy am | 4. Yu- 
vabhyam devil dhishafta madaya Indragnl somam usati sunoti \ 
1. " I have no other wisdom than [that which proceeds] from 
you (Indra and Agni), I who have fabricated for you a hymn 
supplicating food. 2. ... I then, together with a libation of 
soma, generate for you, Indra and Agni, a new hymn. 4. The 
divine hymn \_or rite'], longing, pours forth the soma for your 
exhilaration." 

(The wisdom to which the rishi refers at the beginning of this 
passage does not, however, necessarily, mean the power of com- 
posing hymns. In other clauses, this text contains the same 
words expressive of the fabrication and generation of the hymns 
by the rishi, which we have already met with in section 3, 
pp. 130-136). 

R. V. ii. 3, 8. — Sarasaatl sddkayanti dhiyam nak Ha devl 
Bharati visvaturttih \ Tisro devlh svadhaya barhir edam achhi- 
dram pantu saranam nishadya \ " May Sarasvati, perfecting 
our hymn [or rite], may the divine Ila, and the all-pervading 
Bharati ; may these three goddesses, seated on the place of 
sacrifice, prosper this faultless sacrifice with the oblation." 

R. V. iii. 18, 3. — . . . Yavad ise brahmana vandamdnah 
imam dhiyam sata-seyaya devlm \ " Worshipping thee with a 
prayer according to the best of my power, [I offer ?] this divine 
prayer to obtain unbounded wealth.'' 

R. V. iii. 32, 14. — Vivesha yad ma dhishand jajdna ityadi \ 
" When the thought [or voice] entered into me, I gave it birth," 
etc. (If dhishand here mean "thought," it need not refer to 
anything supernatural.) 

R. V. iv. 34, 1. — Ida hi vo dhishand devl ahndm adhdt pltim 
ityadi \ "For on these days the divine voice has ordained that 
you should drink soma," etc. 



sect. iv.] TO THE OEIGIN OP THE VEDIC HYMNS. 153 

R. V. iv. 43, 1, 2. — Ka u sravat katamo yajfdyanam vandaru 
devah katamo jushate \ kasya imam devim amriteshu preshtham 
hridi sreshyama sushtutim suhavyam | "Who will hear us? 
which of all the objects of adoration ? which of all the gods will 
receive our praises? In the heart of whom among the im- 
mortals can we infix this our divine and dearest hymn, accom- 
panied by excellent oblations ? " 

E. V. vii. 34, 1. — Pra sukra etu devi manisha asmat sutashto 
ratho na vaji \ " May prayer, brilliant and divine, proceed from 
us, like a well-fabricated chariot drawn by steeds." 

R. V. vii. 34, 9. — Abhi vo devim dhiyam dadidhvam pra vo 
devatra vacham krinudhvam | " Receive towards you the divine 
hymn ; proclaim the song for yourselves among the gods." 

R. V. vii. 90, 3. — . . . Raye devi dhishana dhati devam \ 
" The divine voice disposes [?] the god to bestow [?] wealth." 
(This verse is translated by Professor Benfey in his Glossary to 
•the Sama-veda under the root vid, p. 170.) 

R. V. vii. 96, 3. — Bhadram id bhadra krinavat Sarasvati 
akavari chetati vajinivati \ grinana Jamadagnivat stuvana cha 
Vasiskthavat \ " May the gracious Sarasvati bless us. The 
generous [goddess] rich in oblations, stimulates us, when praised 
after the manner of Jamadagni or lauded after the fashion of 
Vasishtha." 

R. V. viii. 90, 16. — Vachovidam vacham udirayantim visva- 
bhir dhibhir upatishthamanam \ devim devebhyah pari eyushim 
gam a, ma avrikta marttyo dabkrachetah \ " Let not any mortal 
of little intelligence do violence to the cow, the divine Vach, 
who is skilled in praise, who utters her voice aloud, who asso- 
ciates with all the gods, and arrives with all the hymns." 

R. V. ix. 33, 5. — Abhi brakmir anushata yahvir ritasya 
mataro marmrijyante divah sisum \ "The great devotional [?] 
mothers of the sacrifice have uttered praise : they decorate the 
child of the sky." 

R. V. x. 35, 6. — . . . Rayo janitrim dhishanam upa bruve \ 
" I address myself to Dhishana, the generatrix of wealth." 



154 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

E. V. x. 71, 1 ff. — Brihaspate prathamam vacho agram yat 
prairata namadheyam dadhanah \ yad esham sreshtham yad 
aripram asit prena tad esham nihitam guha avih \ 2. Saktum 
iva titduna punanto yatra dhira manasd vacham akrata \ atrd 
sakhdyah sakhyani janate bhadrd esham laxmir nihitd adhi 
vdchi | 3. Yajfiena vdchah padavlyam ayan tarn anvavindann 
rishishu pravisktam | tam abhritya vyadadkuh purutra tain 
sapta rebha abhi sannavante \ 4. Uta tvafi pasyan na dadarsa 
vacham uta tvah srinvan na srinoti enam \ uto tvasmai tanvam 
visasre jdyeva patye usatl suvasah \ 5. Uta tvam sakhye sthira- 
pitam ahur nainam himanty api vajinesku \ adhenva charati 
may ay a esha vacham susruvan aphalam apushpam \ 6. Yas 
tityaja sachividam sakhayam na tasya vachi api bhago asti \ yad 
im srinoti alakam sriftoti na hi praveda sukritasya pantham \ 
1. " Brihaspati, that first and principal name of speech (Vach), 
that which possessing, they uttered aloud [?], that which was to 
them the most excellent and spotless, that which they had kept 
secret has, through love, [been made] manifest. 2. Wherever 
the wise, — cleansing, as it were, meal with a sieve, — have uttered 
speech with intelligence, their friends recognize [their] friend- 
liness ; an auspicious fortune [or sign] is impressed upon their 
speech. 3. Through sacrifice they followed the track of Vach, 
and found her entered into the rishis : bearing her, they divided 
her into many portions : her the seven poets celebrate. 4. One 
man, seeing, sees not Vach ; hearing, he hears her not ; to 
another she reveals her form, as an elegantly attired and loving 
wife displays her person to her husband. 5. They say that one 
man has a sure defence in [her] friendship ; men cannot injure 
him even in battle ; but that man consorts with an unprofitable 
delusion who has [only] heard speech [Vach] which is [to him] 
without fruit or flower. 6. He who has abandoned his discern- 
ing friend, has do portion in Vach; whatever he hears he hears 
in vain ; he knows not the path of virtue." 

(The second, fourth, and fifth verses of this obscure hymn are 
quoted in the Nirukta, iv. 10 ; i. 19, and 20 ; and are explained 



sect. iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OP THE VEDIC HYMMS. 155 

in Professor Roth's Illustrations. Verses 2 and 4 are also quoted 
and interpreted in the Mahabhashya ; see pp. 30 and 31 of Dr. 
Ballantyne's edition. The verse which is of most importance 
for my present purpose, is, however, the third, which speaks of 
Vach having entered into the ris/tis. The idea of Vach being 
divided into many portions will be found again below in E. V. 
x. 125, 3.) 

R. V. x. 96, 10. — . . . Mahl chid hi dhishand aharyad ityddi \ 
" The great voice [or hymn] has desired thee." 

R. V. x. 110, 8 (= Vaj. S. 29, 33).— A no yajliam Bharatl 
tuyam etu lid manushzad iha chetayantl | tisro devir barhir a 
idam syonam Sarasvati svapasah sadantu \ " Let Bharati 
come quickly here to our sacrifice, with Ila, who instructs us 
like Manu [or like a man], and with Sarasvati : let these three 
goddesses, skilful in rites, sit down upon this beautiful sacrificial 
grass." 

R. V. x. 125, 3. — Ahaih rashtrl sangamanl vasundm ckikitushi 
prathamd yajfiiydnam \ tarn ma devd vyadadhuk purutra 
bhuristhdtram bhuri avesayantlm \ 4. Maya so annam atti yo 
vipasyati yah prdniti ya Wn, srinoti uktam \ amantavo mam 
te upaxiyanti srudhi sruta sraddhivam te vaddmi \ 5. Aham eva 
svayam idaffi, vaddmi jushtam devebhir uta mdnushebhih | yafh 
kdmaye tain, tarn ugrafh, krinomi tarn brahmdnaih tarn rishiih tain, 
sumedham \ 3. "I am the queen, the centre of riches, intelli- 
gent, the first of the objects of adoration : the gods have 
separated me into many portions, have assigned me many 
abodes, and made me widely pervading. 4. He who has 
insight, who lives, who hears [my] sayings, eats through me 
[the sacred] food. Those men who are foolish destroy me, 
[or, those who disregard me, perish]. Listen, thou who art 
learned, I declare to thee what is worthy of belief. 5. I myself 
make known this which is agreeable both to gods and men. 
Him whom I love I make terrible, [I make] him a priest, [I 
make] him a rishi, [I make] him intelligent." (This passage 
occurs also in the Atharva-veda, iv. 30, 2 ff., but with some 



156 



THE HISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 



various readings, as avesayantah for avesayantim, and sraddhe- 
yam for sraddhwam, etc. The hymn is translated by Mr. Cole- 
brooke, Ess. i. 32, or p. 16 of W. and N.'s ed.) 

R. V. x. 176, 2. — Pra'devafii devya dhiya bharata Jatavedasam 
havya no vaxad anushak | "By divine prayer produce Jatavedas : 
may he present our oblations in order." 

R. V. x. 177, 1. — Patangam aktam asurasya mayaya hrida 
pasyanti manasa vipaschitah \ samudre antah kavayo vichaxate 
marichlnam padam ichhanti vedhasah \ 2. Patango vdcham 
manasa bibhartti tarn Gandharvo avadad garbhe antah \ tarn 
dyotamanam svaryam manlskam ritasya pade kavayo nipanti \ 
" Sages behold with the heart and mind the Bird enveloped by 
the wisdom of the Asura : the wise perceive him in the sky : 
the prudent seek after the abode of his rays. 2. The Bird 
cherishes speech with his mind : the Gandharva hath uttered 
her in the womb : the bards preserve in the place of sacred rites 
this shining and celestial intellect." (See also R. V. x. 189, 3, 
vak patangaya dhiyate.) 

Third : I shall now adduce the passages in which other Vedic 
deities, whether singly or in concert, are spoken of as concerned 
in the production of the hymns. 

Aditi. — In R. V. vhi. 12, 14, Aditi is mentioned as fulfilling 
this function : Yad uta svaraje Aditih stomam Indraya jijanat 
puru-prasastam utaye ityadi \ " When Aditi generated for the 
self-resplendent Indra a hymn abounding in praises, to suppli- 
cate succour," etc. 

Agni. — R. V. i. 18, 6, 7. — Sadasaspatim abhutam priyam 
Indrasya kamyam \ sanim medham ayasisham \ yasmad rite na 
siddhyati yajfio vipaschitas chana \ sa dhinaM yogam invati \ 
6. " I have resorted, for wisdom, to Sadasaspati (Agni), the 
wonderful, the dear, the beloved of Indra, the beneficent; (7) 
without whom the sacrifice of the wise does not succeed : he 
promotes the course of our ceremonies." 

R. V. iv. 5, 3. — Sama dvibarha mahi tigma-bhrisktih sahasra- 
reta vrishabhas tuvishman \ padaih na gor apagulhaih xividvan 



shot, iv.] TO THE OKIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 157 

Agnirmahyam pra id u vochad mamsham | 6. Idam me Agne 
kiyate pdvaka aminate gurum bhdram na manma \ Vrihad 
dadhdtha dhrishata gabhlram yahvam prishtham prayasa sapta- 
dhdtu | " Agni occupying two positions, the fierce-flaming, the 
prolific, the showerer of benefits, the opulent, who knows the 
sacred hymn, mysterious as the track of a [missing cow], has 
declared to me the knowledge [of it]. 6. To me who am feeble, 
though innoxious, thou, o Agni, purifier, hast given, as a heavy 
load, this great, profound, and extensive hymn, of seven elements, 
with efficacious oblations." (I find a difficulty, even with the 
help of Sayana's Commentary, in translating the remaining 
word of this verse, prishtham. See Part Second, p. 489.) 

E. V. iv. 6, 1. — Team hi visvam abhi asi manma pra vedhasas 
chit tirasi mamsham | " Thou presidest over all thoughts [or 
prayers] ; thou promotest the praises of the sage." 

E. V. iv. 11, 3.-^ Tvad Agne kavya tvad manlshas toad nktha 
jay ante radhydni \ " From thee, Agni, proceed poetic thoughts ; 
from thee the products of the mind ; from thee effective hymns." 

E. V. x. 21, 5. — Agnir jato Atharvana vidad visvani kavya \ 
" Agni, generated by Atharvan, is acquainted with all wisdom." 

E. V. x. 91, 8. — . . . Medhakaram vidathasya prasddhanam 
Agnim ityddi | " Agni, the giver of understanding, the accom- 
plisher of sacrifice." 

E. V. x. 4, 5. — Yad vo vayam pramindmo vratdni mdushdm 
dead avidustarasah \ Agnis tad visvam dprindti vidvdn yebhir 
devan ritubkili kalpaydti \ Yat pdkatrd manasd- ddnadaxd na 
yajfiasya manvate martydsah \ Agnis tad hotd kratuvid vijdnan 
yajishtho devan ritu'so yajdti \ " When, o [ye] gods, we, the most 
unwise among the wise, undertake sacred rites in your honour, the 
wise Agni completes them all, at the stated seasons which he 
assigns to the gods. When men, devoted to sacrifice, do not, 
from their ignorance, rightly comprehend the mode of worship, 
Agni, the skilful sacrificer, and most eminent of priests, know- 
ing the ceremonial, worships the gods at the proper seasons." 

(As rites and hymns were closely united in the practice of the 



158 



THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 



early Indians, and are often expressed by the same words; if 
Agni was supposed to be the director of the one, viz., the obla- 
tions, he might easily come to be also regarded as aiding in the 
production of the other — the hymns. Verse 4, occurs also in the 
A. V. six. 59, 1, 2, where, however, aprinatu is read instead of 
aprinati, and in place of the words yebhir dentin, etc., at the 
close of the verse, we have, somascha yo brahmanan a vivesa \ 
" and Soma, who entered into the priests.") 

Brahmanaspati. — B. V. i. 40, 5, 6. — Pra nunam Brahman- 
aspatir mantram vadati ukthyam \ yasminn Indro Varuno 
Mitrak Aryama deva okdmsi chakrire \ Tarn id vochema vida- 
theskn sambkiwam mantrafh deva, anehasam ityadi \ " Brahman- 
aspati (abiding in the worshipper's mouth, according to the 
scholiast) utters the hymn accompanied with praise, in which 
the gods, Indra, Varuna, Mitra, and Aryaman, have made their 
abode. Let us utter, gods, at sacrifices, that spotless hymn, 
conferring felicity." (Eoth in his Lexicon considers okas to 
mean "good pleasure," "satisfaction." See also his Essay on 
Brahma and the BrahmanB, Jour, of the Germ. Or. Soc. i. 74.) 

Brihaspati. — B. V. ii. 23, 2. — Usrah iva suryo jyotisha maho 
nsvesham ij janita brahmanam asi \ "As the glorious sun by 
his lustre generates rays, so art thou (Brihaspati) the generator 
of all prayers." 

Gandharva. — According to Professor Both (see under the 
word in his Lexicon), the Gandharva is represented in the Veda 
as a deity who knows and reveals the secrets of heaven, and 
divine truths in general; in proof of which he quotes the 
following texts : — 

E. V. x. 139, 5. — Visvavasur abhi tad no grinatu divyo Gan- 
dharvo rajaso vimanah \ Tad va gha satyam uta yad na vidma 
dhiyo hinvano dhiyali id nali avydh \ " May the celestial Gan- 
dharva Visvavasu, who is the measurer of the atmosphere, de- 
clare to us that which is true, or which we know not. May he 
receive and delight in our hymns, [or, stimulating our interests, 
may he prosper our hymns]." 



sect. iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 159 

A. V. ii. 1, 2. — Pra tad voc/ied amritasya vidvan Gandharvo 
dhama paramam guha yat \ " May the Gandharva, who knows 
the world of the immortals, declare to us that supreme and 
mysterious abode." 

Indra. — E. V. iii. 54, 17. — Mahat tad vah kavayas charu 
nama yad ha deva bhavatha visve Indre \ sakha Ribhubhih puru- 
huta priyebhir imam dhiyam sataye taxata nah | " Great, o 
sage [As'vins], is that cherished name of yours, through which 
[or, that] ye all become gods with (in) Indra. Do thou, much 
invoked (Indra), our friend, with the beloved Eibhus, fabricate 
(or dispose) this hymn for our welfare." (This may merely 
mean that Indra was asked to give a favourable issue to the 
prayer of the worshipper, not to compose his hymn for him. 
See Eoth's Lexicon, under the word tax, 3.) 

R. V. vi. 26, 3. — Team kavim chodayah arkasatav ityadi \ 
" Thou (Indra) didst stimulate the poet in the composition of his 
hymns," etc. (Sayana renders arkasatau, "for the sake of 
finding food.") 

R. V. vi. 18, 15. — Krishva kritno akrita-m yat te asti ukthaih 
navvy o janayasva yajfiaili \ " Energetic (Indra), do what thou 
hast never yet done ; generate a new song with the sacrifices." 

R. V. vi. 34, 1. — SaM cha toe jagmur girah Indra purvir vi 
cha tvad yanti vibhvo manishah \ " Many hymns are congre- 
gated in thee, o Indra, and numerous products of the mind issue 
from thee." (This verse has been already quoted in p. 124.) 

R. V. vi. 47, 10. — Indra mrila mahyam jivatum ichcha cho- 
daya dhiyam ayaso na dhardm \ Yat kificha aham tvayur idam 
vadami taj jushasva kridhi ma devavantam \ " Indra, gladden 
me, decree life for me, sharpen my intellect like the edge of an 
iron instrument. Whatever I, longing for thee, now utter, do 
thou accept ; give me divine protection." (Compare with the 
word ckodaya the use of the word prachodayat in the Gayatri, 
R. V. iii. 62, 10, which will be given below.) 

R. V. vii. 97. 3. — Tarn u namasa havirbhih susevam Brah- 
manaspatim grinishe \ Indram sloko mahi daivyali sishaktu yo 



160 THE EISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

brahmano devakritasya raja \ 5. Tarn a no arkam amritdyajush- 
twm ime dhasur amritasah purajah ityadi | "3.1 invoke with 
reverence and with offerings the beneficent Brahmanaspati. Let 
a great and divine song celebrate Indra, who is king of the 
prayer made by the devas. 5. May these ancient immortals 
make this our hymn acceptable to the immortal," etc. (Are we 
to understand the word deva here of gods or priests ?) 

E. V. viii. 13, 7. — Pratnavaj janaya girah srinudhi jaritur 
havam \ " As of old, generate hymns; hear the invocation- of 
thy worshipper." 

E. V. x. 112, 9. — Ni shu slda ganapate ganeshu tvam ahur 
vipratamafh kavinam \ na rite tvat kriyate kifickana are maham 
arkam Maghavan chitram archa \ " Lord of assemblies, sit amid 
our multitudes ; they call thee the wisest of poets. Nothing is 
done without, or apart from thee; Maghavan, receive with favour' 
our great and beautiful hymn." (Already quoted in p. 148.) 

Indra and Vishnu. — E. V. vi. 69, 2. — Ya msvasam janitwra 
matinam Indra -Vishnu kalasa soma-dhana \ Pra varh girah 
sasyamanah avantu pra stomdso giyamdnasah arkaih \ " Indra 
and Vishnu, ye who are the generators of all hymns, who are 
the vessels into which soma i3 poured, may the praises which 
are now recited gratify you, and the songs which are chaunted 
with encomiums." 

Indra and Varuna. — The following passage is not, properly 
speaking, a portion of the Eig-veda, as it is part of one of the 
Valakhilyas or apocryphal additions (described in Part Second, 
p. 210), which are found inserted between the 48th and 49th 
hymns of the 8th Mandala. From its style, however, it appears 
to be nearly as old as some parts of the E. V. 

Indravaruna yad rishibhyo ?nanishdm vacho matim srutam 
adattam agre \ yani sthanany asrijanta dhlra yajfiam tanvanas 
tapasa 'bhyapasyam \ " Indra and Varuna, I have seen through 
devotion that which ye formerly gave to the rishis, wisdom, under- 
standing of speech, sacred lore, and all the places which the sages 
created, when performing sacrifice." (See Part Second, p. 220.) 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 161 

Ptishan. — K. V. x. 26, 4. — Mamslmahi tvd vayam a&mdkam 
deva Pushan matlndficha sadhanam viprdnMcka ddhavam \ 
" We adore thee, divine Pushan, the accomplisher of our hymns, 
and the stimulator of sages." 

Savitri.—B,. V. iii. 62 (= S. V. ii. 812, and Vaj. S. iii. 35).— 

Tat Savitur varenyam bhargo devasya dhlmahi \ dhiyo yo nah 

prachodayat \ " We meditate that excellent glory of the divine 

Savitri ; may he stimulate our understandings [or hymns, or 

rites]." 

(This is the celebrated Gayatri, the most sacred of all the 
texts in the Veda. See Colebrooke's Misc. Ess. i. pp. 29, 30, 
127, and 175 ; or pp. 14, 15, 78, and 109 of W. and N.'s ed. 
Benfey (S. V. p. 277) translates the Gayatri thus: "May we 
receive the glorious brightness of this, the generator, of the god 
who shall prosper our works." 

The Linga Purana (Part II. sec. 48, 5 ff., Bombay litho- 
graphed ed.) gives the following "varieties" of the Gayatri, 
adapted to modern Saiva worship : Gdyatrl-bhedah || Tatpuru- 
shaya vidmahe vag-visuddhaya dhlmahi \ Tan nah Sivah pracho- 
dayat || Ganambikayai vidmahe karmasiddhyai cha dhlmahi \ 
Tan no Gaurl prachodayat || Tatpurushaya vidmahe Mahade- 
vaya dhlmahi \ Tan no Rudrah prachodayat || Tatpurushaya 
vidmahe Vaktratundaya dhlmahi \ Tan no Dantih prachodayat || 
Mahasendya vidmahe vdgvi'suddhdya dhlmahi \ Tan nah Skan- 
dah prachodayat || Tlxna'sringdya vidmahe Vedapaddya dhl- 
mahi | Tan no Vrishah prachodayad ityddi \ " (1) We contem- 
plate That Purusha, we meditate him who is pure in word [or 
purified by the word] ; may That Siva stimulate us. (2) We 
contemplate Ganambika, and we meditate Karmasiddhi (the 
accomplishment of works) ; may That Gaurl stimulate us. (3) 
We contemplate That Purusha, and we meditate Mahadeva; may 
That Kudra stimulate us. (4) We contemplate That Purusha, 
and we meditate Vaktratunda (Ganes'a) ; may That Danti (the 
elephant) stimulate us. (5) We contemplate Mahasena (Karti- 
keya), and we meditate him who is pure in word; may That 

n 



162 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

Skanda stimulate us. (6) We contemplate Tixnasringa (the 
sharp-horned), and we meditate the Veda-footed; may Vrisha 
(the bull) stimulate us." 

Soma. — E. V. vi. 47, 3. — Ayam mepitah udiyartti vacham ay am 
manisham u'satim ajlgah \ " This [soma], when drunk, stimulates 
my speech [or hymn] ; this called forth the ardent thought." 

It may be said that this and the other following texts relating 
to soma, should not be quoted as proofs that any idea of 
divine inspiration was entertained by the ancient Indian bards, as 
they can mean nothing more than that the rishis were sensible 
of a stimulating effect on their thoughts and powers of expres- 
sion, produced by the exhilarating draughts of the juice of that 
plant in which they indulged. But the rishis had come to 
regard Soma as a god, and apparently to be passionately devoted 
to his worship. See Part Second, pp. 470 ff., and especially 
pp. 474, 475. 

A. V. viii. 48, 3. — Apama somam amrita abhuma aganma 
jyotir avidama deoan \ kim nunam asman krinavad aratih Mm u 
dhurttir amrita martyasya \ " We have drunk the soma, we 
have become immortal, we have entered into light, we have 
known the gods ; what can an enemy now do to us ? what can 
the malice of any mortal effect, o immortal god ? " 

(This passage is quoted in the commentary of Gaudapada on 
the Sankhya Karika, verse 2, and is translated (incorrectly as 
regards the last clause), by Prof. Wilson, in p. 13 of bis Eng- 
lish version.) 

A curious parallel to this last Vedic text is to be found in the 
satyrical drama of Euripides, the Cyclops, 578 ff. ; though here, 
of course, the object is merely to depict the drunken elevation 
of the monster Polyphemus : 

f O 8' bvpavSs fioL trvpne/juyfievos doiczt 
Tj? 7?? <j>ep^ff6ai t tov At6s re rbv 6p6vov 
Aedffffto rb iruv re Saifiopwv ayvbv trcjSas. 

" The sky, commingled with the earth, appears 
To whirl around ; I see the throne of Jove, 
And all the awful glory of the gods." 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIO HYMNS. 163 

R. V. ix. 25, 5. — Arusho janayan girah somah pavate ayu- 
shag Indrawn, gachchan kavikratuh | "The ruddy Soma, sage, 
united with men, purines us, generating hymns, resorting to 
Indra." 

R. V. ix. 76, 4. — . . . Pita matlnam asamashta-kavyah \ 
" [Soma] father of our hymns, of incomparable wisdom." 

R. V. ix. 95, 2. — Harih srijanah pathyam ritasya iyartti 
vacham ariteva navam \ devo devanam guhydni nama dvishkri- 
noti barhishi pravdche | " The golden [Soma] when poured out, 
sends forth the hymn, [or, his voice], the companion of the 
ceremony, as a rower propels a boat. A god, he reveals the 
mysterious names of the gods to the bard upon the sacred grass." 
(See R. V. ii. 42, 1, and x. 116, 9, quoted in p. 137). 

R. V. ix. 96, 5 (= S. V. ii. 293-5). — Somah pavate janita 
matlnam janita divo janita prithivyd janita Agner janita sur- 
yasya janita Indrasy a janita uta Vishnoh | 6. Brahma devanam 
padavlh kavlnam rishir vipranam mahisho mriganam syeno 
gridhrandm svadhitir vandnam somah. pavitram ati eti rebhan \ 
7. Pravivipad va'chah urmim na sindhur girah somah pavamano 
mamshdh ityadi \ " Soma purifies us, he who is the generator 
of hymns, of the sky, of the earth, of fire, of the sun, of Indra, 
and of Vishnu. 6. Soma, who is Brahma among the gods, a 
leader among the poets, a rishi among sages, a buffalo among 
wild beasts, a falcon among vultures, an axe amid the forests, 
advances to the filter with a sound. The purifying soma, like the 
sea rolling its waves, has poured forth songs, hymns, and 
thoughts," etc. (See Benfey's translation of this passage in his 
Sama-veda, pp. 238 and 253.) 

Varuna. — R. V. viii. 41, 5, 6. — Yo dhartta bhuvandndm ya 
usranam apichya veda namani guhya \ sa kavih kavya puru 
rupam dyaur iva pushyati . . . | Yasmin visvani kavya chakre 
nabhir iva srita ityadi \ " He who is the upholder of the worlds 
(Varuna), who knows the secret and mysterious names of the 
cows, he, a sage [or poet], cherishes sage [or poetical] works, 
as the sky does many forms In him all sage [or poetical] 



164 THE EISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

works abide, as the nave within a wheel," etc. (See R. V. vii. 
87, 4, in p. 144, and ix. 95, 2, above, p. 163.) , 

Varuna, Mitra, and Aryaman. — R. V. vii. 66, 11. — Vi ye 
dadhuh saradam masam ad ahar yajfiam aktum cha ad richam 
anapyam Varuno Mitrah Aryama ocatram rajanah a'sata \ " The 
kings, Varuna, Mitra, and Aryaman, who made the autumn, the 
month, the day, the sacrifice, night, and the Rik, possess an 
invincible power." 

The following passage of the Rig-veda has (as we have seen 
above, p. 51, note 37 ; and p. 58), been quoted by Indian 
commentators and aphorists to prove the eternity of the Veda, 
on its own authority : 

R. V. viii. 64, 6. — Tasmai nunam abhidyave vdcha Virupa 
nityaya vrishne chodasva sushtutim \ " Send forth praises, 
Virupa, to this heaven-aspiring and prolific Agni, with perpetual 
voice." 

There is, however, no reason whatever to suppose that the 
words nityaya vacha mean anything more than perpetual voice. 
There is no ground for imagining that the rishi entertained 
any such conception as became current among the systematic 
theologians of later times, that his words were eternal. The 
word nitya is used in the same sense "perpetual" in R. V. ix. 
12, 7 (= S. V. ii. 55, 2), where it is said of Soma, nityastotro 
vanaspatir dhinarn antar ityadi \ " The monarch of the woods, 
continually-praised, among the hymns," etc., as well as in the 
two following texts : 

R. V. ix. 92, 3. — Somali punanah sadah eti nityam ityadi | 
" The pure Soma comes to his perpetual abode [or to his abode 
continually]," etc. 

R. V. x. 39, 14 (quoted above, p. 132). — Nityam na sunwm 
tanayam dadhanah \ " Continuing the series like an unbroken 
line of descendants." 

The tenor of the numerous texts adduced in this Section seems 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HTMN8. 165 

clearly to establish the fact that some at least of the ancient Indian 
rishis conceived themselves to be prompted and directed, in the 
composition of their hymns and prayers, by supernatural aid, de- 
rived from various deities of their pantheon. It may add force to 
the proof derived from these texts, and show that I am the less 
likely to have misunderstood their purport and spirit, if I adduce 
some evidence that a similar conception was not unknown in 
another region of the ancient Indo-Germanic world, and that the 
expressions in which the early Grecian bards laid claim to an 
inspiration descending from the Muses, or from Apollo, were not 
mere figures of speech, but significant, originally, of a living 
belief. Most of the following passages, from Hesiod and Homer, 
in which this idea is enunciated, are referred to in Mr. Grote's 
History of Greece, i. 478. 
Hesiod, Theogonia, 22 : — 

"At vb Trotf 'HffioSov KaKfyv z5il>a£ap uoiSrjv 
'Api/as iroLfiahovS 1 ''EhiK&vos ftiro £a6eoio. 
TtfySe 5e /ie irp&Tiffra 9ea\ irpbs [xvQov eeiirav, 
Movffai 'QAv/jnrtd8es, Kovpai Aios aiytdxoio. 
Tlotfieves &ypav\oi, Kaic' zKeyx ea > yutrrepes Ziov, 
"IS/iev i//euoea iroWa \4yetif eTiijUOiffiV 6/j.oia, 
"iS/xzv 5', eur 1 £9eAw/iev, a\i]8ea fj.v6'f]a , atT6au 
*fls tttpatrav icovpai pzy&Kov Alos apri4iretai m 
Kai fxot (TKrJTTTpou %8ov, Sd(pvrjs epidTiKeos 8£oy, 
Aptyatrat 6r)i)r6v' tittirvevaav 5e fiot auSV 
&eiyjy, a>s KXzioifii rti t 3 efTtrojuepa, irp6 t' £6vra t 
Kaf /ie k£\oi>8' vfuveiv fi.uK6.pav yevos aiiv Uvtwv, 
~2,<pa.s t' avras irpuT6y re /cal ilffTepov aiev atiSeiv. 

" Hesiod erst was instructed in beautiful song by tbe Muses, 
Once as be tended his lambs under glorious Helicon's summit. 
Me tben the goddesses first, tbe Olympian Muses, accosted : 
This was tbe word which those daughters of Jupiter spake in my hearing : 
' Ye who abide in tbe fields, ye contemptible, gluttonous shepherds, 
' Pull many tales we can tell which are feigned, though tbey seem to be real ; 

But we are skilled, when we please, to relate the reality also.' 
Thus, very fluent in speech, mighty Jupiter's daughters addressed me. 
Straightway then plucking a branch of luxuriant laurel, the Muses 
Gave it to me for a staff, and inspired me with speech sttperhwnan, 
Fitting me thus to make known both the future and also the bygone. 
Next tbey enjoined me to hymn the immortals, unchangeably blessed, 
Chiefly, however, to sing their own praises, beginning and ending." 



166 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. n. 

Hesiod, Theogonia, 94 : — 

'E/c yap Movaawv Ka\ eK7iB6\ov 'Air6\\wvos 
''AvSpes aoiSol %aaiv iirl %66va koX icidaptfnai, 
'Ek 5e Albs /3acrtA?}es. 

" Minstrels who come to this earth, as well as all tuneful musicians, 
Spring from the heavenly Muses, and from the far-darting Apollo : 
Kings are from Jupiter sprung." 

The following are the words in which the author of the Iliad 
invokes the aid of the Muses, to qualify him for enumerating 
the generals of the Grecian host (Iliad, ii. 484) : — 

"E(T7reTe vvv jxot MoDtrai OKifiiria 8w/m£t' exovaat, 
'TjUeTs yap deal effre TrapeffTe re fore Te irdvra, 
'Hfieis Se kKgos Ziov anotiofiev ou8e ri iSfiey. 

" Tell to me now, o ye Muses, who dwell in Olympian mansions, 
Ye who are goddesses, present, and knowing all things which befall men, 
Things of which we may hear rumours, but never get accurate knowledge — 
Tell to me who were commanders and chiefs of the Grecian army." 

But the Muses could also take away, as well as impart, the 
gift, of song, as appears from Iliad, ii. 594 ff. 

"Evda re Movo-ai 
'Avr6fizvai ®6.p.vpiv rbv ©p^t/ca iravffav ao&TJs' 
StgSto yap ivx^psvos viKriirefieV) eiTrep av avra\ 
Movtrat aeidoiev, Kovpal Albs aiyi6xoto. 
'At Se x°^- toa '^f J '- evai Trypbv Gefrav, avrap aoidfyv 
&effireffi-r)v atp4\oi/TO, teal eV\€Aa(?oj/ KtQapiinbv. 

" That was the spot where the Muses 
Thracian Thamyris met, when they stopped his career as a minstrel. 
Boastingly he had affirmed that, if even the heavenly Muses, 
Daughters of Jove, should compete, he would bear off the laurels for singing. 
Hotly indignant, they smote him with blindness, and took away from him 
Minstrelsy, science divine, and his skill in melodious music." 

The following passages from the Odyssey refer to Demodocus, 
the bard who sang at the court of Alcinous, King of the Phse- 
acians (Odyssey, viii. 43 if.) : — 

KaKeffaaBe Se 6etov aot86v, 
ArjfldSoKOV t$ ydp 'pa 6tbs irepi SuKev aoiZfy, 
TepTTeLV, fairr} $v/ibs iirorpforitriv aei'Seii'. 

" And summon Demodocus hither, 
Minstrel divine, whom the god hath endowed with most exquisite science, 
Charming, whenever his spirit impels him to sing for our pleasure." 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 167 

Odyssey, viii. 62 ff. — 

Krjpv£ 8* 4yy6Qev %\0ev &yuv epnipov aoiBbv' 

Tbv irepi Movo* itplAytre, SlSov 5* hyaB6i> re ro,k6v re, 

'0<pOaKfiav pen &fiep(re SiSov 8*^5e?a*/ aoTS-fjy. 

" Afterward nigh came the herald, conducting the loveahle minstrel. 
Him the Muse tenderly loved, hut she dealt him good mingled with evil ; 
Eyesight she took from him, while she assigned him sweet song in requital." 

Odyssey, viii. 73 — 

MoOtr* &p' doi8<V avrJKev aeifieuevai Khea avSpcov k.t.X. 
"Next the Muse stirred up the hard to resound the achievements of heroes." 

A little further on, Ulysses says of Demodocus (Odyssey, 
viii. 479 ff.) u— 

Tlaffi yap av&p&iroiffiv hnxJUovioiaiv aoiSol 
TifjLTJs efi/Aopot eiffi Kal cuBovs. fWe/c' &pa o"<peas 
^Oijuos Mover 1 ^BiSa^e, tplhritre 8e <pv\ov ao&ihv. 

" All men who dwell upon earth stand in awe of, and honour, their minstrels, 
Since the Muse teaches them lays, and looks on the trihe with affection." 

And again he addresses him thus (Odyssey, viii. 487) : — 

Atip^Sok?, <i£oxa 8^ (re Pporup aivl&fi' airdvTwv, 
'H ere ye Mover' iStSa^e Aibs Trau, r) ere y' Air6\kuv. 
Aiijv yap Kara K.6<r\wv 'Axatiov Zltov aeideis, K.T.X. 

" Happy I deem thee, Demodocus, far ahove all other mortals. 
Either the Muse, Jove's daughter, hath taught thee, or Phoebus Apollo ; 
Such the exactness with which thou relatest the fate of the Argives." 3 

Phemius, the Ithacan minstrel, thus supplicates Ulysses to 
spare his life (Odyssey, xxii. 345 ff.) : — 

s AuT(p roi fier6Trto'8 > &x os effcrerat, iiKev aoidov 
U.4(pyy)s t '6s re Qeuiffi Kal avBpdmoio'iv aeiSat. 
'AvToSlSaKTOs 1? eijul, 6ebs fie \ioi ev (ppediv oifxas 
Ttavroias ivetpvtrey. 

" Afterward, thou thyself shalt lament if thou slayest the minstrel, — 
Me, who sing praise to the gods, and delight mankind with my legends. 
Self-instructed am I, but a god hath implanted within me 
All kinds of narrative lore." 

3 " That is," says Mr. Grote, " Demodocus has either been inspired as a poet by 
the muse, or as a prophet by Apollo, for the Homeric Apollo is not the god of song. 
Kalchas, the prophet, receives his inspiration from Apollo, who confers upon him the 
same knowledge, both of past and future, as the Muses give to Hesiod." But does 
not this passage itself (Odyssey viii. 488) show that the Homeric Apollo was the god 
of song, as well as the bestower of prophetic intuition ? and do we not learn the 
same from Iliad, i. 603 ? In any case, it is quite clear from Theog. 94, quoted above, 
that Hesiod regarded Apollo in this character. 



168 THE R1SHIS, AND THEIE OPINIONS IN REGAKD [chap. ii. 

The early Greeks believed • that the gift of prophecy also, 
as well as that of song, was imparted by the gods to mortals. 
This appears from the following passage of Homer (Iliad, 
i. 69) :- 

Kd\x&s 06(TTopfS7j5j oicavoTriKtav &x* fywros, 
*Os $&7j rd t 46vra id t s 4ffff6fj.ei/a, irp6 t' e<Wa, 
■ KaX vfaffo' Tiyfiffar' 'AxaicHy "l\iov %i<T(a, 
A Hv Sia fiavT0irvv7}j/ 7 t4\v 61 Trope *o7j8o5 'Air6\Kwi>. 

" Calchas, the great son of Thestor, all other diviners excelling, 
Skilled in the present, foreseeing the future, and knowing the hygone ; 
Guide of the Grecian gallies from Hellas to Ilion's roadstead, 
Thanks to that power of divining which Phcebus Apollo imparted." 

It is well argued by Mr. Grote that the early Greeks really 
believed in the inspiration of their bards by the Muses (History 
of Greece, i. 477 ft.) :— 

" His [the early Greek's] faith is ready, literal and unin- 
quiring, apart from all thought of discriminating fact from 
fiction, or of detecting hidden and symbolized meaning : it is 
enough that what he hears be intrinsically plausible and seduc- 
tive, and that there be no special cause to provoke doubt. And 
if indeed there were, the poet overrules such doubts by the holy 
and all-sufficient authority of the Muse, whose omniscience is 
the warrant for his recital, as her inspiration is the cause of his 
success. The state of mind, and the relation of speaker to 
hearers, thus depicted, stand clearly marked in the terms and 
tenor of the ancient epic, if we only put a plain meaning upon 
what we read. The poet — like the prophet, whom he so much 
resembles — sings under heavenly guidance, inspired by the 
goddess to whom he has prayed for her assisting impiilse. She 
puts the word into his mouth and the incidents into his mind; 
he is a privileged man, chosen as her organ, and speaking from 
her revelations. As the Muse grants the gift of song to whom 
she will, so she sometimes in her anger snatches it away, and 
the most consummate human genius is then left silent and help- 
less. It is true that these expressions, of the Muse inspiring, 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 169 

and the poet singing, a tale of past times, have passed from the 
ancient epic to compositions produced under very different cir- 
cumstances, and have now degenerated into unmeaning forms 
of speech ; but they gained currency originally in their genuine 
and literal acceptation. If poets had from the beginning written 
or recited, the predicate of singing would never have been 
ascribed to them ; nor would it ever have become customary to 
employ the name of the Muse as a die to be stamped on licensed 
fiction, unless the practice had begun when her agency was 
invoked and hailed in perfect good faith. Belief, the fruit of 
deliberate inquiry, and a rational scrutiny of evidence, is in such 
an age unknown ; the simple faith of the time slides in uncon- 
sciously, when the imagination and feeling are exalted; and in- 
spired authority is at once understood, easily admitted, and 
implicitly confided in." 

If we extend our researches over the pages of Homer, we 
shall speedily discover numerous other instances of divine 
interference in human affairs, not merely (1) in the general 
government of the world, in the distribution of good and 
evil, and the allotment of the diversified gifts, intellectual, 
moral, and physical, which constitute the innumerable varieties 
of human condition, but also (2) in the way of special sug- 
gestion, guidance, encouragement, and protection, afforded to 
individuals. 

Illustrations of the general control exercised by the gods over 
the fortunes of mankind may be found in the following passages 
of the Iliad, xiii. 730 ff., and of the Odyssey, i. 347 f. ; iv. 23(5 f- ; 
vi. 188 f. ; viii. 167-175 ; xvii. 218, 485 ff. 

The following are illustrations of the special interference of 
the gods in behalf of their favourites : — Iliad, i. 194 ff., 218 ; iii. 
380 ff. ; v. 1 ff. ; vii. 272 ; xiii. 60 f., 435 ; xvi. 788 ff. :-Odyssey, 
i. 319 ff. ; iii. 26 ff. ; xiv. 216 f., 227 ; xvi. 159 ff. 1 Of the latter 
class of passages, I quote two specimens. 

i Compare Prof. Blackie's dissertation on the theology of Homer in the " Classical 
Museum," vol. vii. pp. 414 ff. 



170 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

Odyssey, i. 319 ff.— 

f H fikv &p &s elirov&' Attc/Stj yXavKutrts *Afrf}vvji 
"Opvis 8' Sis avoiraia SieVraTO' t<$> 5* ivl Ovfiqi 
®TJKe fiivos ku\ Bipcros, {mcuvqtrh re I irarp6s 
MaWov gT* ty to TtapoiBsV 6 Se tppeffLv yfft vofoas 
&dfj.^ri(rei' Kara Bv/jdv, ottraro yap Bebi> eivai. 

" Thus having spoken, the goddess, the keen-eyed Athene departed, 
Flying aloft like a bird, unobserved : but to him she implanted 
Courage and strength in his soul, and reminded him then of his father 
Far more strongly than ever : he then, perceiving the marvel, 
"Wondered exceedingly, thinking a god must have been his adviser. 

When Telemachus urges his youth and inexperience as a 
reason for diffidence in approaching Nestor, Minerva says to 
him (Odyssey iii. 26) :— 

TijAe/iax', &K\a /AW avrbs eVl <ppeal (rrjtrt vo^ffas, 
y AX\o tie KaX SaifJ-wy virod'fjO'eTai' ov yap dtoi 
"Ov tre Qtwv ae/ojTi yev4ff8at re rpa<p4p.sv Te. 

" Some things thou thyself shalt perceive in thine own understanding; 
Others, again, some god will suggest to thy spirit, for never 
Hast thou been born, or bred up, except by celestial permission." 

These passages, however, afford only one exemplification of 
the idea which runs through, and in fact, created, the entire 
mythology of the Greeks, viz., that all the departments of life 
and of nature were animated, controlled, and governed by par- 
ticular deities, by whom they were represented, and in whom 
they were personified. 

The Indian mythology, — as is evident to every reader of the 
Vedas, as well a3 (to some extent) to the student of the 
Puranas, — is distinguished by the same tendency as the Grecian. 
Indra, Agni, Vayu, Varuna, Surya, and many other gods are 
nothing else than personifications of the elements, while Vach 
or Sarasvatl and some other deities, represent either the divine- 
reason by which the more gifted men were supposed to be 
inspired, or some mental function, or ceremonial abstraction. 

In the later religious history, however, of the two races, the 
Hellenic and the Indian, there is in one respect a remarkable 
divergence. Though the priestesses of the different oracles, 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OP THE VEDIC HYMNS. 171 

and perhaps some other pretenders to prophetical intuition, 
were popularly regarded as speaking by a divine impulse, 5 the 
idea of inspiration as attaching to poems or other compositions 
of a religious, didactic, or philosophical character, very soon 
became extinct. The Greeks had no sacred Scriptures. Their 
philosophers spoke and wrote in dependance on their own reason 
alone. They never professed to be guided by any supernatural 
assistance, nor claimed any divine authority for their dogmas. 
Nor was any such character of infallibility ever claimed for 
any of them by their successors. 

In India, on the other hand, the indistinct, and perhaps 
hesitating, belief which some of the ancient rishis seem to have 
entertained in their own inspiration was not suffered to die out 
in the minds of later generations. On the contrary this belief 
grew up by degrees into a fixed persuasion that all. the literary pro- 
ductions of those early sages had not only resulted from a super- 
nal impulse, but were infallible, divine, and even eternal. These 
works have become the sacred Scriptures of India. And in the 
popular opinion, if not in the estimation of the learned, most 
Indian works of any importance, of a religious, scientific, or 
philosophical kind, which were produced at a later period, have 
come to be regarded as inspired, as soon as the lapse of ages had 
removed the writers beyond familiar or traditional knowledge, 
and invested their names with a halo of reverence. 

To return from this digression to the inquiry which was being 
pursued regarding the opinions of the ancient Vedic rishis on 
the subject of their own inspiration : 

How, it will be asked, are we to reconcile this impression 
which the rishis manifest of being prompted by supernatural 
aid, with the circumstance, which seems to be no less distinctly 
proved by the citations made in the preceding section (pp. 128, 
136), that they frequently speak of themselves as having made, 
fabricated, or generated the hymns, without apparently betray- 

6 See Nagelsbach's Nachhomerische Theologie, pp. 173 ff. 



172 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

ing any consciousness that in this process they were inspired or 
guided by any extraneous assistance ? 

I am not in a position to attempt any very precise expla- 
nation of this discrepancy. I will only suggest (1) that 
possibly the idea of inspiration may not have been held by the 
earliest rishis, but may have grown up among their successors ; 
or (2) that it may have been entertained by some rishis, and not 
by others ; or again (3), if both ideas can be traced to the same 
author (as is possibly the case in R. V. i. 109, 1, 4), we may 
suppose that the one notion was uppermost in his mind at one 
moment, and the other at another ; or (4) that he had no very 
clearly defined ideas of inspiration, and might conceive that the 
divine assistance of which he was conscious, or which at least he 
implored, did not render his hymn the less truly the production 
of his own mind ; that, in short, the superhuman and human 
elements were not incompatible with one another. 

The first of these suppositions is, however, attended with this 
difficulty, that both conceptions, viz., that of independent unas- 
sisted composition, and that of inspiration, appear to be dis- 
coverable in all parts of the Rig-veda. As regards the second 
supposition, it might not be easy (in the uncertainty attaching to 
the Vedic tradition contained in the Anukramani or Vedic index) 
to show that such and such hymns were written by such and 
such rishis, rather than by any others. It may, however, be- 
come possible by continued and careful comparison of the Vedic 
hymns, to arrive at some probable conclusions in regard to their 
authorship, so far at least as to determine that particular hymns 
should probably be assigned to particular eras, or families, 
rather than to others. I must, however, leave such investiga- 
tions to be worked out, and the results applied to the present 
subject, by more competent scholars than myself. 

HI. — While in many passages of the Veda, an efficacy is 
ascribed to the hymns, which is perhaps nothing greater than 
natural religion teaches all men to attribute to their devotions, 
in other texts a mystical, magical, or supernatural power is 



sect, it.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 173 

represented as residing in the prayers and metres. (See Weber's 
Vajasaneyi-Sanhitee specimen, p. 61.) 

Thus in R. V. i. 67, 3, it is said : Ajo na xam dadhara 
pritkmm tastambha dyam mantrebhih satyaih \ " (Agni) who 
like the unborn, supported the broad earth, and upheld the sky 
by true prayers." The following is part of Sayana's annotation 
on this verse : Mantrair divo dhdranam Taittirlye samdmna- 
tam | ' deva va adityasya svarga-lokasya paracho 'tipdtdd abi- 
bhayuh \ tarn chhandobhir adrihan dhrityd " iti | yadva satyair 
mantraih stuyamano 'gnir dyam tastambha iti \ " The support- 
ing of the sky by mantras is thus recorded in the Taittirlya: 
' The gods feared lest the sun and the heaven should fall down ; 
they propped them up by metres.' Or the verse may mean 
that Agni, being lauded by true mantras, upheld the sky." 

E. V. i. 164, 25. — Jagata sindkum divi astabhayad rathantare 
suryam pari apasyat | gayatrasya samidhas tisra ahus tato 
mahna pra ririche mahatva \ "By the JagatI metre he fixed 
the waters in the sky; he beheld the sun in the Rathantara 
(a portion of the Sama-veda) : there are said to be three 
divisions of the Gayatrl; hence it surpasses [all others] in 
power and grandeur." 

R. V. iii. 53, 12. — Yi'svamitrasya raxati brahma idam Bhara- 
tamjanam \ " The prayer of Visvamitra protects this tribe of 
the Bharatas." 

R. V. v. 31, 4. — Brahmana Indram mahayanto arkair avar- 
dhayan Ahaye hantavai u \ " The priests magnifying Indra by 
their praises, have fortified him for slaying Agni." 

R. V. v. 40, 6. — . . . Gulham suryam tamasa apavratena 
turlyena brahmana avindad Atrih \ v. 8. . . . Atrih suryasya 
divi chaxur adhat svarbhanor apa maya aghuxat \ v. 9. TaM vai 
suryam svarbhanus tamasa avidhyad dsurah \ Atrayas tarn 
anvavindan na hi anye asaknuvan \ " Atri, by his fourth prayer, 
discovered the sun which had been concealed by an unholy 
darkness. 8. . . . Atri placed the eye of the sun in the sky, 
and hid the delusions of Svarbhanu. 9. The Atris discovered 



174 



THE EISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 



the sun, which Svarbhanu, of the Asura race, had pierced ; no 
other could [effect this]." 

E. V. vi. 75, 19. — . . . Bevds tarn sarve dhurvantu brahma 
varma mamdntaram \ " May all the gods destroy him ; the 
prayer is my protecting armour." 

R. V. vii. 19, 11. — Nu Indra sura stavamdnah utl brahma- 
jutas tanvd vavridhasva ityddi | "Heroic Indra, lauded with 
devotion, and impelled by our prayers, grow in body," etc. 

R. V. vii. 33, 3. — ■ . . . Even nu kaim ddsardjfie Suddsam 
prdvad Indro brahmand vo Vasishthdli \ 5. ... Vasishthasya 
stuvatah Indrali asrod urufii Tritsubhyah akrinod u hkam \ 
" Indra has delivered Sudas in the combat of the ten kings 
through your prayer, Vasishtha. 5. Indra heard Vasishtha 
when he praised, and opened a wide place for the Tritsus." 

R. V. viii. 15, 7 (= S. V. ii. 995). — Tava tyad indriyam 
brihat tava sushmam uta kratufh, vajraih sisdti dhishana varen- 
yam \ "The hymn sharpens thy great strength, thy vigour, 
thy force, [and thy] glorious thunderbolt." 

(This verse is translated by Benfey, S. V. p. 286, who, in a 
note, thus describes the doctrine of the hymns : " Prayer 
sharpens the thunderbolt, and consequently Indra's might; for 
the power, etc., of all the gods is derived from the sacrifices and 
prayers of men.") 

R. V. viii. 49, 9. — Pahi nah Ague ekaya pahi uta dvitlyaya, 
pahi glrbhis tisribhir urjampate pahi chatasribhir vaso \ "Pro- 
tect us, Agni, through the first, protect us through the second, 
protect us, lord of power, through three hymns, protect us 
through four, thou gracious one." 

The following passage celebrates the numbers of the metres : 

R. V. s. 114, 8, 9. — Sahasradha pafichadasani uktha ydvad 
dydvd-prithivi tavad it tat \ Sahasradha, mahimdnah sahasraih 
ydvad brahma tdvatl vdk \ has chhandasam yogam dveda dhirali 
ko dhishnydm prati vdcham papdda \ kam ritvijdm ashtamaM 
suram dhur harl Indrasya ni chikdya kah suit \ " There are a 
thousand times fifteen ukthas ; that extends [they extend ?] as 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 175 

far as heaven and earth. A thousand times a thousand are the 
glorifications ; speech is commensurate with devotion. What 
sage knows the [whole] series [or application] of the metres? 
Who has obtained all the forms of devotional speech ? Whom do 
they call the eighth hero among priests ? Who has perceived 
the two steeds of Indra ? " 

(The word dhishnya is said by Yaska, Nirukta, viii. 3, to be 
= to dhishanya, and that again to be = to dhishanabhava, 
" springing" from dhishana, " speech," or " sacred speech." 

I conclude the series of texts relating to the power of the 
mantras by quoting the whole of the 130th hymn of the 10th 
Mandala of the R. V. : Yo yajfio visvatas tantubhis tatah eka- 
sataih devakarmebhir ayatdh \ ime vayanti pitaro ye ayayuli pra 
vaya apa vaya asate tate | 2. Pitman enam tanute utkrinatti 
puman vi tatne adhi nake asmin \ ime mayukha upa shedur & 
sadah samani chakrus tasarani otave \ 3. Ka asit prama pratima 
kiih, nidanam ajyam kim asit paridhili ka asit \ ckhandali kim 
asit prdugaih, kim uktham yad deva devam ayajanta visve | 
4. Agner gayatri abhavat sayugva ushnihaya Savita sambabhuva \ 
anushtubha Somah ukthair mahasvan Brihaspater brikati vacham 
avat | 5. Viran Mitravarunayor abhisrir Indrasya trishtub iha 
bhagah ahnah \ Yi'svan devan jagati dvivesa tena chaklripre 
rishayo manushyah \ 6. Chaklripre tena rishayo manushya yajfie 
jate pitarah nah purane \ pa'syan manye manasa chaxasa tan ye 
imam yajfiam ayajante purve \ 7. Sakastomah sahachhandasali 
avritah sahapramah rishayali sapta daivyah \ purvesham pan- 
tham anudrisya dhira anvalebhire rathyo na r asmin \ " The 
[web of] sacrifice which is stretched on every side with threads, 
which is extended with one hundred [threads], the work of the 
gods, — these fathers who have arrived weave it ; they sit where 
it is extended, [saying?] 'weave forwards, weave backwards.' 
The Man stretches it out and spins it, the Man has extended it 
over this sky. These rays [rishis?] approached the place 
of sacrifice; they made the Sama verses the shuttles for the 
woof. What was the order [of the ceremonial], what the dispo- 



176 



THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 



sition, what the service, what the offering, what the enclosure, 
what the metre, what the preliminary chaunt, and what the 
hymn, when all the gods sacrificed to the god [or, offered up the 
god as a victim] ? The gayatrl was produced as the [metre] 
attendant upon Agni ; Savitri appeared with the ushnik ; and 
Soma, glorious through hymns (ukthas), with the anushtubh ; 
the brihatl preferred the voice of Brihaspati. The virat 
attached itself to Mitra and Varuna; the trishtubh, assigned 
to [?] the day, [accompanied] Indra. The jagatl entered into 
the Vis'vedevas. By this means men were made rishis, [or 
rishis and men were formed]. By this means our mortal fathers 
were made rishis, when this ancient sacrifice was celebrated. 
Beholding, I know [or I believe I behold] with my mind, [as] 
an eye, those ancients who performed this sacrifice. The seven 
divine rishis, with hymns, with metres, [with] ritual forms, 
and with the prescribed arrangements, steadily contemplating 
the path of the ancients, have, like charioteers, followed after 
the rays." 

(I shall not attempt to explain the meaning and purport of 
all the parts of this mystical hymn. The precise signification 
of some of the terms relating to the ceremonial of sacrifice in 
verse 3, is not supplied in any work to which I have access. 
In the rendering of those to which I refer, Mr. Colebrooke, who 
has translated the passage (Essays, i. 34, 35, or p. 18 of W. and 
N.'s ed.) differs from M. Langlois. My object in quoting the 
hymn is to show how the various metres are associated with the 
different deities, in this primeval and mysterious rite, and how a 
certain sanctity of character is thus imparted to them. The 
Atharva-veda (x. 7, 43, 44) gives the second verse somewhat 
differently from the R. V., as follows : Puman enad vayati 
udgrinatti puman enad vi jabhara adhi nake \ ime mayukha upa 
tastabhur divairii sammi chakrus tasarani vatave \ " The Man 
weaves and spins this : the Man has spread this over the sky. 
These rays have propped up the sky ; they have made the Sama 
verses shuttles for the woof.") 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 177 

IV. — But whatever may have been the nature or the source 
of the supernal illumination to which the rishis laid claim, it 
is quite clear that some among them at least made no pre- 
tensions to anything like a perfect knowledge of all subjects, 
human and divine, as they occasionally confess their ignorance 
of matters in which they felt a deep interest and curiosity. This 
is shown in the following texts : 

R. V. i. 164, 5. — Pakah prichchhami manasa avijdnan devd- 
ndm end nihitd paddni \ vatse bashkaye adhi sapta tantun vi 
tatnire kavayah otavai S | 6. Achikitvdn chikitasas chid atra 
kavln prichchhami vidmane na vidvdn \ vi yas tastambha shal 
imd rajaihsi ajasya rupe Mm api svid ekam \ 37. Na vi jandmi 
yad iva idam asmi ninyah sannaddho manasa charami \ yadd 
md dgan prathamajdli ritasya ad id vdchah asnuve bhagam 
asydh | " Immature, not knowing in my mind, I enquire ; 
these [are] the hidden or treasured truths [or abodes] of the 
gods; the sages have stretched out seven threads for a woof, 
over the yearling calf [or over the sun, the abode of all things]. 
Not comprehending, I ask those sages who comprehend this 
matter ; unknowing, [I ask] that I may know ; what is the one 
thing, in the form of the uncreated, who has upheld these six 
worlds ? 37. I do not recognize if I am like this ; I go on 
perplexed and bound in mind. When the first-born sons of 
sacrifice [or truth] come to me, then I enjoy a share of that 
word." 

(I do not attempt to explain the proper sense of these obscure 
and mystical verses. It is sufficient for my purpose that they 
clearly express ignorance on the part of the speaker. Prof. 
Wilson's translation of the passages may be compared. Prof. 
Muller, Anc. Ind. Lit., p. 567, renders verse 37 as follows : — 
" I know not what this is that I am like ; turned inward I walk, 
chained in my mind. When the first-born of time comes near 
me, then I obtain the portion of this speech.") 

E. V. x. 88, 18. — Kati agnayah kati surydsali kati ushasah 
kati u svid dpah \ na upaspijafii vah pitaro vaddmi prichchhami 

12 



178 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

vak kavayo vidmane kam | "How many fires are there? how 
many suns ? how many dawns ? how many waters ? I do not, 
fathers, say this to you in jest ; I really ask you, sages, in 
order that I may know." 

E. V. x. 129, 5. — Tira'schino vitato rasmir eskam adhdh svid 
asld upari svid dslt \ retodha asan mahimana asan svadha ava- 
statprayatih parastat | 6. Kah addha veda kah iha pravochat 
kutah ajata kutah iyaih visrishtih \ arvag deva asya visarjanena 
atha ko veda yatah ababhilva | 7. Iyaih visrishtir yatdh aba- 
bhuva yadi va dadhe yadi va na \ yali asya adhyaxali parame 
vyoman sa anga veda yadi va na veda \ " Their ray, obliquely 
extended, was it below, or was it above ? There were generative 
sources, and there were great powers, svadha (nature) below, 
and effort above. Who knows, who hath here declared whence 
this creation was produced, whence [it came] ? The gods were 
subsequent to the creation of this universe ; who then knows 
.whence it sprang? Whence this creation sprang, whether it 
was formed or not, — He who, in the highest heavens, is the 
overseer of this universe, — he indeed knows, or he does not 
know." 

(The last verse may also be rendered, " He from whom this 
creation sprang, — whether he made it or not, — he who is the 
overseer of this universe, he knows, or he does not know." 
See the translation of the whole hymn by Mr. Colebrooke in 
•his Essays, i. 33, 34, or p. 17 of W. and N.'s ed. See also 
Prof. Muller's translation and comment in pp. 559-564 of his 
History of Anc. Sanskrit Lit.) 

We have seen (above, p. 45) that a claim is set up (by some 
unknown writer quoted by Sayana) on behalf of the Veda that 
it can impart an understanding of all things, past and future, 
subtile, proximate, and remote ; and that according to Sankara 
Acharyya (on the Brahma sutras, i. 1, 3) as cited above, p. 52, 
note, the knowledge which it manifests, approaches to omnisci- 
ence. All such proud pretensions are, however, plainly enough 
disavowed by the rishis who uttered the complaints of ignorance 



sect, iv.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 179 

which I have just adduced. It is indeed urged by Sayana (see 
aboye, pp. 45, 46) in answer to the objection, that passages like 
It. V. x. 129, 5, 6, can possess no authority as sources of 
knowledge, since they express doubt, — that this is not their 
object, but that it rather is to intimate by a figure of speech the 
extreme profundity of the Divine essence, -and the great difficulty 
which any persons not well versed in the sacred writings must 
experience in comprehending it. There can, however, be little 
doubt that the authors of the passages I have cited did feel their 
own ignorance and intended to give utterance to this feeling. 
As, however, such confessions of ignorance on the part of the 
rishis, if admitted, would have been incompatible with the doctrine 
that the Veda was an infallible source of divine knowledge, it be- 
came necessary for the later theologians who held that doctrine to 
deny, or explain away, the plain sense of those expressions. 

It should be noticed that these confessions of ignorance and 
fallibility are by no means inconsistent with the supposition 
that the rishis may have conceived themselves to be animated 
and directed in the composition of their hymns by a divine 
impulse. Though the two rivals, Vasishtha and Visvamitra, to 
enhance their own importance, and recommend themselves to 
their royal patrons, talk proudly about the wide range of their 
knowledge (see above, pp. 142-144), it is not necessary to 
imagine that, either in their idea or in that of the other ancient 
Indian sages (any more than in that of the Grecian bards), 
inspiration and infallibility were convertible or co-extensive 
terms. Both the Greek minstrel and the Indian rishi may have 
believed that they received, indeed, such supernatural aid as 
enabled them to perform what they must otherwise have left 
unattempted, but which after all resulted in only a partial 
illumination, and left them still liable to mistake and doubt. 

I must also remark that this belief in their own inspiration 
which I imagine the rishis to have held, falls very far short of 
the conceptions which later writers, whether Naiyayika, Mlman- 
saka, or Vedantist, entertain in regard to the supernatural origin 



180 THE RISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

and authority of the Veda. The gods from whom the rishis 
supposed that they derived their illumination, at least Agni, 
Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Soma, Pushan, etc., would all fall under 
the category of productions, or divinities created in time. This 
is clearly shown by the comments of Sankara on the Brahma 
Sutras, i. 3, 28 (above, pp. 69, 70). But if these gods were 
themselves created, and even "(as we are told in the Eig-veda 
itself, x. 129, 6, cited in p. 178) produced subsequently to some 
other parts of the creation, the hymn3 with which they inspired 
the rishis, could not have been eternal. The only one of the deities 
referred to in the Eig-veda as sources of illumination, to whom 
this remark would perhaps not apply, is Vach or Sarasvatl, who 
is identified with the supreme Brahma in the passage of the 
Vrihad Aranyaka Upanishad quoted above (p. 108, note 53) ; 
though this idea probably originated subsequently to the era of 
the hymns. But it is not to created gods, like Agni, Indra, and 
others of the same class, that the origin of the Veda is referred 
by the Naiyayikas, Mimansakas, or Vedantists. The Naiya- 
yikas represent the eternal Is'vara as the author of the Veda ; at 
least, this is the opinion of Udayana Acharyya, the writer of the 
Kusumftnjali (in the passages which I shall quote in the Appen- 
dix in a note on p. 81). And the Mimansakas and Vedantists, 
as we have seen (pp. 52-73, and note 39, pp. 51, 52), either 
affirm that the Veda is uncreated, or derive it from the eternal 
Brahma. Their view, consequently (unless we admit an excep- 
tion in reference to Vach), differs from that of the Vedic rishis 
themselves, who do not seem to have had any idea, either of 
their hymns being uncreated, or of their being derived from the 
eternal Brahma. 

As regards the relation of the rishis to deities like Indra, it is 
also deserving of notice that later mythologists represent the 
former, not only as quite independent of the latter, and as gifted 
with an inherent capacity of raising themselves by their own 
austerities to the enjoyment of various superhuman faculties, 
but even as possessing the power of rivalling the gods them- 



sect, v.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 181 

selves, and taking possession of their thrones. See the stories 
of Nahusha and Visvamitra in the First Part of this work, par- 
ticularly pp. 68, 103, and 108. Compare also the passages from 
the Kig-veda, x. 154, 2, and x. 167, 1, quoted above, p. 146, where 
the rishis are said to have attained to heaven, and Indra to have 
conquered it, by devotion {tapas). 



Sect. V. — Texts from the Upanishads, showing the opinions of the authors 
regarding their own inspiration, or that of their predecessors. 

I shall now adduce some passages from the different Upani- 
shads, to show what opinions their authors entertained either in 
regard to their own inspiration, or that of the earlier sages, from 
whom they assert that their doctrine was derived by tradition. 

I. Svetas'vatara Up. v. 2 (already quoted above, p. 96). — 
Yo yonitn yonim adhitiskthaty eko visvani rupdni yonischa sarvah 
rishim prasutafh Kapilaffi yas tarn agre jfianair bibhartti jaya- 
manuficha pa'syet \ " He who alone presides over every place 
of production, over all forms, and all sources of birth, who 
formerly nourished with various knowledge that rishi Kapila, 
who had been born, and beheld him at his birth." 

II. Svetas'vatara Up. vi. 21. — Tapah-prabhavad veda-prasd- 
ddchcha Brahma ha Svetasvataro 'tha vidvan \ atyasramibhyah 
paramam pavitram provacha samyag rishi-sangha-jushtam | 
" By the power of austerity, and by the grace of the Veda, the 
wise Svetas'vatara declared perfectly to the men in the highest of 
the four orders, the supreme and holy Brahma, who is sought 
after by the company of rishis." (Dr. Roer's translation, p. 68, 
follows the commentator in rendering the first words of the 
verse thus : " By the power of his austerity, and the grace of 
God." This, however, is not the literal meaning of the words 
veda-prasaddchcha, a reading the correctness of which is not 
denied.) 

III. Mundaka Up. i. 1 ff. (quoted above, p. 18, more at 



182 THE EISHIS, AND THEIR OPINIONS IN REGARD [chap. ii. 

length). — Brahma devdnam prathamah sambabhuva visvasya 
karttd bhuvanasya goptd \ 8a brahma-vidydm sarva-vidyd-pra- 
tishthdm Atharvdya jyeshtha-putraya praha \ " Brahma was 
born the first of the gods, he who is the maker of the universe 
and the supporter of the world. He declared the science of 
Brahma, the foundation of all the sciences, to Atharva, his 
eldest son." 

IV. Chhandogya Up. p. 625 ff. — Tad ha etad Brahma Praja- 
pataye uvacka Prajdpatir Manave Manuhprajabhyah \ acharyya- 
kulad vedam adhltya yatha vidhanam guroh karmatiseshena 
abhisamavritya kutumbe suchau dese svadhyayam adhtyano 
dharmikan vidadhad atmani sarvendriydni sampratishthapya 
ahimsan sarva-bhutani anyatra tlrthebhyah sa khah evam vartta- 
yan yavadaynsham Brahma-lokam abhisampadyate na cha pwnar 
avarttate na cha punar avarttate I "This [doctrine] Brahma 
declared to Prajapati, Prajapati declared it to Manu, and Manu 
to his descendants. Having received instruction in the Veda from 
the family of his religious teacher in the prescribed manner, and 
in the time which remains after performing his 'duty to his pre- 
ceptor ; and when he has ceased from this, continuing his religious 
studies at home, in his family, in a pure spot, communicating a 
knowledge of duty [to young men], withdrawing all his senses 
into himself, doing injury to no living creature, away from holy 
places [?], thus passing all his days, a man attains to the world 
of Brahma, and does not return again, and does not return 
again, [i.e., is not subjected to any future births]." 

I quote the commencement of Sankara's comment on this 
passage : Tad ha etad atma-jfidnam sopakaranam om ity etad 
axaram ityddyaik saha upasanais tadvackakena granthena ash- 
tadhyaya-laxanena saha Brahma Hiranyagarbhah Parames- 
varo va taddvdrena Prajdpataye Kasyapaya uvacha \ asav api 
Manave svaputraya \ Manuh prajdbhyah \ ityevam sruty-artha- 
sampraddya-paramparayd dgatam upanishad-vijftanam adydpi 
vidvatsv avagamyate \ " This knowledge of soul, with its instru- 
ments, with the sacred monosyllable om and other formulae of 



sect, v.] TO THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC HYMNS. 183 

devotion, and with the book distinguished as containing eight 
chapters, which sets forth all these topics, [viz., the Chhandogya 
Upanishad itself] was declared by Brahma Hiranyagarbha, or 
by Paramesvara (the supreme God), through his agency, to 
the Prajapati Kas'yapa. The latter in his turn declared it to 
his son Manu, and Manu to his descendants. In this man- 
ner the sacred knowledge contained in the Upanishads, having 
been received through successive transmission of the sense of 
the Veda from generation to generation, is to this day under- 
stood among learned men." 



APPENDIX, 



Note I. on Page 19, Line 2. 

I adduce here some further passages from Indian authors in 
addition to those already cited in pp. 17-19, which depreciate the 
ceremonial, or exoteric parts of the Vedas, in comparison with 
the esoteric knowledge of Brahma. 

I. My attention has been drawn to the following passage of the 
Bhagavad Gita, ii. 42 ff., by its quotation in an (as yet) unpub- 
lished work on Hindu Philosophy by the Kev. Professor K. M. 
Banerjea, of Calcutta : Yam imam pushpitam vacham prava- 
danty avipaschitali \ veda-vada-ratdh partha ndnyad astiti vadi- 
nah | kamatmanah svarga-pardh janma-karma-phala-pradam \ 
kriya-visesha-bahulam bhogaisvarya-gatim prati | bhogaisvarya- 
prasaktanam taya 'pahrita-chetasdm \ vyavasayatmika buddhih 
samadkau na vidhiyate \ traigunya-vishaya veda nistraigunyo 
bkavarjuna | . . . yavan artha udapdne sarvatah samplutodake | 
tavan sarveshu vedeshu brahmanasya vijanatah \ "A. flowery 
doctrine (promising future births and the reward of works, pre- 
scribing numerous ceremonies, with a view to future gratifica- 
tion and glory) is preached by unlearned men, devoted to the 
injunctions of the Veda, assertors of its exclusive importance, 
sensual in disposition, and seekers after paradise. The restless 
minds of the men who, through this [flowery doctrine], have 
become bereft of wisdom, and are ardent in the pursuit of 
future enjoyment and glory, are not applied to contemplation. 
The Vedas have for their objects the three qualities (sattva, 



186 APPENDIX. 

rajas, tamas, or ' goodness,' 'passion,' and 'darkness'); but be 

thou, Arjuna, free from these three qualities As great a3 is the 

use of a well which is surrounded on every side by overflowing 
waters, so great [and no greater?] is the use of the Vedas to 
a Brahman endowed with true knowledge." 

II. Chhandogya Up. p. 473 (Colebrooke's Essays, i. 12).— 
Adhlhi bhagava iti ha upasasdda Sanatkumdram Naradah \ tain, 
ha uvacha yad vettha tena ma upaslda tatas te urddhvam 
vaxydmi iti \ sa har uvacha rigvedam bhagavo 'dhyemi yqjurvedam 
sdma-vedam dtharvanam chaturtham iiihasa-puranam paflcha- 
mam vedanam vedam pitryam rdsim daivam nidhim vdkovdk- 
yam ekdyanam deva-vidydm brahma-vidyam bhuta-vidydm xatra- 
vidydm naxatra-vidyafh sarpa-deva-jana-vidydm etad bhagavo 
'dhyemi \ so 'ham bhagavo mantra-rid evasmi na atma-vit \ 
srutaih hy eva me bhagavaddrisebhyas ' tarati soham atma-vid' 
iti so 'ham bhagavah sochdmi tarn ma bhagavan sokasya pdraifi 
tarayatv iti \ tarn ha~uvdcha yad vai kiftcha etad adhyaglshtha 
nama evaitat \ nama va rigvedo yajur-vedah samaveda athar- 
vanas ehaturtha itihdsa-puranali pafichamo vedanam vedah 
pitryo rasir daivo nidhir vakovdkyam ekdyanam deva-vidyd 
brahma-vidyd bhuta-vidyd xatra-vidyd naxatra-vidyd sarpa-deva- 
jana-vidyd nama evaitad nama updsva iti \ sa yo nama brahma 
ity updste ydvad ndmno gatam tatra asya yathd Jcdmachdro 
bhavati yo nama brahma ity updste \ asti bhagavo ndmno bhuya 
iti | ndmno vdva bhuyo 'sti iti \ tan me bhagavan bravltv iti \ 
" Narada approached Sanatkumara, saying, 'Instruct me, vener- 
able sage.' He received for answer, ' Approach me with [i.e., 
tell me] that which thou knowest; and I will declare to thee 
whatever more is to be learnt.' Narada replied, 'I am in- 
structed, venerable sage, in the Eig-veda, the Yajur-veda, the 
Sama-veda, the Atharvana, [which is] the fourth, the Itihasas 
and Puranas, [which are] the fifth "Veda of the Vedas, the rites 
of the pitris, arithmetic, the knowledge of portents, and of 
great periods, the art of reasoning, ethics, interpretation, the 
knowledge of Scripture, demonology, the science of war, the 



APPENDIX. 187 

knowledge of the stars, the sciences of serpents and deities ; 
this is what I have studied. I, venerable man, know only 
the hymns {mantras) ; while I am ignorant of soul. But 
I have heard from reverend sages like yourself that " the 
man who is acquainted with soul overpasses grief." Now I, 
venerable man, am afflicted ; but do thou conduct me across 
my grief.' Sanatkumara answered, 'That which thou hast 
studied is nothing but name. The Rig-veda is name ; and 
so are the Yajur-veda, the Sama-veda, the Atharvana, the fourth, 
and the Itihasas and Puranas, the fifth Veda of the Vedas, 
etc. [all the other branches of knowledge are here enumerated 
just as above], — all these are but name : worship the name. 
He who worships a name with the persuasion that it is Brahma, 
holds as it were a dominion at his will over all which that name 
comprehends ; — such is the prerogative of him who worships 
name with the persuasion that it is Brahma.' ' Is there any- 
thing, venerable man,' asked Narada, ' which is more than 
name?' 'There is,' he replied, ' something more than name?' 
' Tell it to me,' rejoined Narada." 

(Sankara interprets the words pafichamam vedanam vedam 
differently from what I have done. He separates the words 
vedanam vedam from pafichamam and makes them to mean the 
means of knowing the Vedas, i.e., grammar. See above, p. 107.) 

III. Brihadaranyaka Up. iv. 3, 22 (p. 792 ff., p. 228-9 of Dr. 
Boer's English). — Atra pita apita bhavati mata amata loka 
aloha deva adeva veda avedah \ atra steno 'steno bhavati bhruna- 
ha abhruna-ha chandalo 'chandalah paulkaso paulkasah sra- 
mano 'sramanas tdpaso 'tdpaso nanvagatam punyena ananvaga- 
tam papena tlrno hi tada sarvan sokan hridayasya bhavati \ 
" In that [condition of transcendental knowledge] a father is no 
father, a mother is no mother, the worlds are no worlds, the 
gods are no gods, and the Vedas are no Vedas. In that con- 
dition a thief is no thief, a murderer of embryos is no murderer 
of embryos, a Ohandala no Chandala, a Paulkasa no Paulkasa, 
a Sramana no Sramana, a devotee no devotee ; the saint has 



188 



APPENDIX. 



then no relation either to merit or sin ; for he then crosses over 
all griefs of the heart." 

(I quote Sankara's explanation of the unusual words nanva- 
gata and ananvagata : Nanvagatam na anvagatam ananvagatam 
asambaddham ity etat punyena sastra-vihitena karmana tatka 
pdpena vihitakarana-pratishiddkarkriya-laxanena \ " Nanvagata, 
i.e., na (not) anvagata, or ananvagata, i.e., asambaddha. This 
condition is unconnected either with merit, i.e., action enjoined 
by the sastra, or with sin, i.e., action distinguished as the neglect 
of what is enjoined, or the doing of what is forbidden.") 

IV. To the same effect the great sage Narada is made to 
speak in the Bhagavata Pur. iv. 29, 42 ff. : Prajapati-patih 
saxad bhagavan Giriso Manuli \ Daxadayah prajadkyaxa 
naishthikah Sanakadayah \ Marlchir Atryangirasau Pulastyah 
Pulahali KratuTi \ Bhrigur Vasishtka ity ete mad-anta brahma- 
vadinali \ adyapi vachaspatayas tapo-vidya-samadhibhih \ pas- 
yanto 'py na pasyanti pasyantam Parame'searam \ sabda-brah- 
mani dushpare charanta uruvistare \ mantra-ling air vyavach- 
chhinnam bhajanto na viduh param \ yada yasyanugrihnati 
bhagavan atma-bhavitah \ sa jahati matim loke vede cha pari- 
nishthitam \ tasmat karmasu varhishmann ajfianad, artha-kasi- 
shu | ma, 'rtha-drishtim krithah srotra-sparsishv asprishta-vas- 
tushu | sva-lokam na vidus te vai yatra devo Janardanah \ ahur 
dhumra-dhiyo vedam sakarmakam atad-vidah \ astlrya darbkaih 
prag-agraih kartsnyena xiti-mandalam \ stabdho vrihad-vadhad 
mam karma navaishi yat param \ tat karma Hari-tosham yat sa 
vidya tan-matir yaya \ " Brahma himself, the divine Girisa 
(Siva), Manu, Daxa and the other Prajapatis, Sanaka and 
other devotees, Marichi, Atri, Angiras, Pulastya, Pulaha, Kratu, 
Bhrigu, Vasishtha — all these assertors of Brahma (as the sole 
essence), and masters of speech, including myself (Narada) as 
the last, though seeing, are yet, to this day, unable, by austerity, 
by science, by contemplation, to see Parames'vara (the supreme 
God), who sees all things. Wandering in the vast field of the 
verbal Divinity (the Veda), which is difficult to traverse, men do 



APPENDIX. 189 

not recognise the supreme, while they worship him as he is 
circumscribed by the attributes specified in the hymns (mantras). 
When the Divine Being regards any man with favour, that man, 
3unk in the contemplation of soul, abandons all thoughts which are 
set upon the world and the Veda. Oease, therefore, Varhishmafc, 
through ignorance, to look upon works which merely seem to pro- 
mote the chief good, as if they truly effected that object, (works) 
which only touch the ear, but do not touch the reality. The 
misty-minded men, who, ignorant of the Veda, declare that 
works are its object, do not know [his ?] own world, where the 
divine Janardana abides. Thou who, obstinate man that thou 
art, strewest the whole earth with sacrificial grass, with its ends 
turned to the east, and art proud of thy numerous immolations, 
thou knowest not what is the highest work of all. That by 
which Hari (Vishnu) is pleased, is work; that by which the 
thoughts are fixed on him, is science." 

I copy the comment on a part of this passage, viz., on verses 
45 and 46 : Sabda-brahmani vede urur vistdro yasya arthato 'py 
pdra-sunye tasmin varttamand mantrdnam lingair vajra-hasta- 
tvddi-guna-yukta-vividka-devatd-'bhidkdna-samartkyaik parich- 
ckhinnam eva Indrddi-rupam tat-tat-karmdgrahena bhajantah 
param ParamesvaraM na viduk || Tarky anyah ko ndma \ kar- 
mddy-dgraham Mtvd paramesvaram eva bhajed ity ata aha 
' yada yam anugrihndti ' \ anugrahe hetuli \ atmani bhavitali san 
sa tada loke loka-vyavahare vede cha karma-marge parinishthi- 
tam matim tyajati \ " Men, conversant with the verbal Divinity, 
the Veda, of which the extent is vast, and which, as regards its 
meaning also, is shoreless, worshipping Parames'vara [the 
supreme God] under the forcn of Indra, etc., and circumscribed 
by the marks specified in the hymns, i.e., circumscribed by 
various particular energies denominated deities, who are charac- 
terised by such attributes as ' wielder of the thunderbolt,' etc. ; 
worshipping Him, I say, thus, with an addiction to particular 
rites, men do not know the supreme God. What other [god], 
then, [is there] ? He therefore says, in the words, ' When he 



190 



APPENDIX. 



regards any one with favour,' etc., let a man, abandoning all 
addiction to works, etc., worship the supreme God alone. The 
reason for this favour [is supplied in the following words] : 
' Sunk in the contemplation of soul, he then relinquishes his 
regard directed to the business of the world and to the Veda, 
i.e., to the method of works.' " 

Note II. on Page 22, Line 14. 

Mahidhara on the Vajasaneyi Sanhita (Weber's ed. p. 1) says, 
in regard to the division of the Vedas : Tatradau Brahma-param- 
paraya praptam Vedam Veddvyaso manda-matln manushyan 
vichintya tat-kripaya chaturdha vyasya Rig-yajuh-samatharva- 
khyams chaturo vedan Paila- Vaisampayana-Jaimini-Sumantu- 
bhyah kramad upadidesa te cha sva-sishyebhyali \ Evarn param- 
paraya sahasra-sakho Vedo jatah \ " Vedavyasa, having regard 
to men of dull understanding, in kindness to them, divided into 
four parts the Veda which had been originally handed down by 
tradition from Brahma, and taught the four Vedas, called Rik, 
Samau, Yajush, and Atharvan, in order, to Paila, Vaisampayana, 
Jaimini, and Sumantu; and they again to their disciples. 
In this way, by tradition, the Veda of a thousand sakhas was 
produced." 

Note III. on Page 65, 4th Line from the bottom. 

The following extract from the account of the Purva-mlmansa 
philosophy, given in the Sarva-dars'ana-sangraha of Madhava 
Acharyya (Bibliotheca Indica, pp. 127 ft.), contains a fuller 
summary of the controversy between the Mlmansakas and the 
Naiyayikas respecting the grounds on which the authority of 
the Veda should be regarded as resting, than is supplied in any 
of the passages which I have quoted in the body of the work. 
As I have not studied the works of Sahara, Kumarila, Prabha- 
kara, or the other commentators on the Mlmansa aphorisms, 
I am unable to say how far this ingenious and interesting 



APPENDIX. 191 

summary is borrowed from those authors. It is probably taken 
from them in great part, but the special references made, in the 
course of the discussion, to Udayana Acharyya, Vagis'vara, and 
the author of the Nyaya-bhushana, and the answers made to 
their objections, rather favour the supposition that the arguments 
urged by the author of the summary are in part original. 

Sydd etat \ vedasya katham apaurusheyatvam abhidhlyate \ 
tat-pratipddaka-pramdndbhdvdt katham manyethdh apauruskeyd 
veddh | sampraddydvichchhede saty asmaryyamana-karttrikatvdd 
dtma-vad iti \ tad etad mandam viseshandsiddheh \ paurusheya- 
veda-vddibhih pralaye sampradaya-vichchhedasya kaxlkarandt \ 
kificha kim idam asmaryyamdna-karttrikatvam ndma \ apratlya- 
mdna-karttrikatvam asmarana-gochara-karttrikatvam vd \ na 
prathamdh kalpah Paramesvarasya karttuJi pramiter abkyupa- 
gamdt \ na dvitlyo vikalpdsahatmt \ tathd hi \ kim ekena asma- 
ranam abhipreyate sarvair vd \ na ddyah \ ' yo dharma-silo jita- 
mdna-roshah' ityddishu muktakoktishu vyabhichdrdt \ na dvitl- 
ydh | sarvdsmaranasya asawajfia-durjn'dnatvdt \ 

Paurusheyatve pramdna-sambhavdchcha veda-vdkydni pauru- 
sheydni \ vdkyatvdt \ Kdliddsddi-takya-vat \ veda-vdkydni dpta- 
pranitdni \ pramdnatve sati vdkyatvdd Manv-ddi-vdkya-vad 
iti | 

Nanu | ' Vedasyddhyayanam sarvam gurv-adhyayana-purva- 
kam | vedddhyayana-sdmdnydd adhund 'dhyayanam yatkd' | 
ity anumdnam prati sddhanam pragalbhate iti chet \ tad api na 
pramdna-kotim praveshtum Ishte \ ' Bhdratddhyayanam sarvafii 
gurv-adhyayana-purvakam \ Bhdratadhyayanatvena sdmpratd- 
' dhyayanam yatkd' iti dbhdsa-samdna-yoga-xematvat \ nanu tatra 
Vydsah karttd iti smaryyate ' ko hy any ah Pundarlkdxdd Mahd- 
bhdrata-krid bhavet' ity dddv iti chet \ tad asdram | ' rickah 
sdmdni jajlwre \ chhanddmsi jajfiire tasmad yajus tasmdd ajd- 
yata' iti purusha-sukte vedasya sakartrikata-pratipddanat \ 

Kificha anityah sabdah sdmdnyavattve sati asmad-adi-vdhyen- 
driya-grdhyatvdd ghata-vat \ nanv idam anumdnam sa evdyani 
ga-kdra ity pratyabhijfid-pramdna-pratihatam iti chet \ tad ati 



192 APPENDIX. 

phalgu ' luna-pitnarjata-kesa-dalita-kund'-ddav iva pratyabki- 
jfidyd sdmanya-vishayatvena badhakatvdbhavat \ 

Nanv asarlrasya Paramesvarasya tdlv-adi-sthdnabhdvena var- 
nochcharanasambhavdt kathaih tat-pranltatvam vedasya syad 
iti chet | na tad bhadram svabhdvato' sarlrasydpi tasya bhaktd- 
nugrahdrtham lild-vigraha-grahana-sambhavdt \ tasmdd vedasya 
apaurusheyatva-vdcho yuktir na yuktd iti chet \ 

Tatra samad/ianam abhidhlyate \ Kim idam paurusheyatvam 
sisadkayiskitam \ purushad utpannatva-matram \ yathd asmad- 
ddibhir ahar ahar uchchdryyamanasya vedasya \ pramdndnta- 
rena artham upalabhya tat-prakdsandya rachitatvam vd \ yatfia 
asmad-adibhir eva nibadkyamdnasya prabandhasya \ prathame 
na vipratipattih \ charame him anumana-baldt tat-sadhanam 
dgama-balad vd \ na ddyah \ Malati-mddkavddi-vdkyesku savya- 
bhichdratvdt \ atha pramdnatve sati iti visishyate iti chet \ tad 
api na vipaschito manasi vaisadyam dpadyate | pramdndntard- 
gochardrtka-pratipddakam hi vdkyam Veda-vakyam \ tat pra- 
manantara-gochardrtha-pratipddakam iti sddhyamane 'mama 
mdtd bandhyd' iti vad vyaghdtdpdtat \ kificha Paramesvarasya 
llld-vigraha-parigrahdbhyupagame 'py atlndriydrtha-darsanam 
na safijdghdtiti desa-kdla-svabkdva-mprakrishtdrtha-grahanopd- 
ydbhdvdt \ na cha tachchaxur-ddikam eva tddrik-pratlti-janana- 
xamam iti mantavyam \ drishtdnusdrenaiva halpandyd dsrayanl- 
yatvdt | tad uktam Gurubhih sarvajfia-nirdkarana-veldydm 'ya- 
trapy atisayo drishtah sa svdrthdnatilanghandt \ dura-suxmddi- 
drishtau syad na rupe srotra-vrittitd' iti \ ata eva na dgama- 
baldt tat-sadhanam \ 

' Tena proktam' iti Pdniny-anusdsane jagraty api kdthaka- 
kaldpa-taittirlyam ityddi-samdkhyd adhyayana-sampraddya-pra- 
varttaka-vishayatvena upapadyate \ tad-vad atrapi sampraddya- 
pravarttaka-vishayatvendpy upapadyate \ na cha anumdna- 
balat sabdasya anityatva-siddhih \ pratyabhijM-virodhdt \ na 
cha asaty apy ekatve sdmdnya-nibandhanam tad iti sdmpratam \ 
sdmdnya-nibandhanatvam asya balavad-bddhakopanipdtdd dstki- 
yate kvachid vyabhichdra-darsandd vd \ tatra krachtd vyabhi- 



APPENDIX. 193 

chdra-darsane tad-utprexdydm uktaM svatah-prdmdnya-vddibhih \ 
' utprexeta hiyo mohdd ajfidtam api bddhanam \ sa sarva-vyava- 
hdreshu samsaydtmd vinasyati ' iti | 

Nanv idam pratyabhijfidnam gatvddi-jdti-vishayam na gddi- 
vyakti-vishayarh tasam prati-purusham bhedopalambhdd \ anya- 
thd ' Somasarmd 'dhlte' iti vibhago na syad iti diet \ tad api 
sobham na bibhartti gadi-vyaltti-bhede pramanabkavena gatvadi- 
jativishaya-kalpanaydm pramanabhavat \ Yathd gatvam qjdnata 
ekam eva bhinna-desa-parimana-sa'fristhana-vyakty-upadhana- 
vasad bhinna-desam iva alpam iva mahad iva dirgham iva 
vdmanam iva pratkate tatha ga-vyaktim ajanata ekd 'pi 
vyanjaka-bheddt tat-tad-dkarmanubandkbil pratibhasate \ etena 
viruddha-dharmddhydsdd bheda-pratibhasa iti pratyuktam | 
tatra kim soabhaviko viruddha-dharmadhyaso bheda-sadhakat- 
vena abhimatah prdtltiko va \ prathame asidd/iih \ aparathd 
SDdbhavika-bhedcibhyupagame da'sa ga- karan udacharayat Chai- 
tra iti prattipattih syad na tu dasakriivo ga-kara iti \ dcitlye 
tu na svabhavika-bheda-siddkih na hi paropddhi-bhedena sva- 
bhwoikam aikyaih, vikanyate \ ma bhud nabkaso 'pi kumbhddy- 
upadhi-bhedat svdbhaviko bhedas tatra vyavrita-vyavakaro ndda- 
nidanah \ tad uktam achdryyaih \ ' prayojanantu yaj jates tad 
varnad eva labhyate \ vyakti-labkyantu nadebhya iti gatvadi-d/nr 
vrithd ' iti \ tathd cha ' pratyabhijfid yadd sabde jdgartti nirava- 
graha \ anityatvdnumdndni saiva sarvdni bddhate ' \ Etena idam 
apastafii yad avadi Vdgisvarena Mdnamanohare ' anityah sabdah 
indriya-visesha-gunatvat chaxu-rupa-vad' iti \ sabda-dravydtva- 
vddindm pratyaxa-siddheh dhvanyamse siddka-sddhanatvdchcha \ 
asrdvanatvopddhi-bddhitatvdckcha \ Udayanas tu dsraydprat- 
yaxatve 'py abMvasya pratyaxatdm mahatd prabandhena prati- 
pddayan nivrittah koldhalah utpannah sabdah iti vyavahdrdcha- 
rane kdranam pratyaxam sabddnityatve pramdnayati sma \ so'pi 
viruddha-dharma-samsargasya aupddhikatvopapddana-nydyena 
datta-rakta-balind iva tdlah samdpohi \ nityatve sarvadopalabdhy- 
anupalabdhi-prasango yo Nydyabhushana-kdroktah so 'pi dhvani- 
samskritasya upalambhdbhyupagamdt pratixiptah \ yat hi 

13 



194 APPENDIX. 

yugapad indriya-sambandhitvena pratiniyata-samskaraka-sam- 
skdryya-bhdvdnumdnam tad atmany anaikdntikam asati kalakale \ 
tatascha vedasya apaurusheyataya nirasta-samasta-sankd-kalank- 
dnkuratvena svatah siddham dharme pramanyam iti susthitam \ 
Sydd etat \ ' pramdnatvapramdnatve svatah Sankhyah samasri- 
tah | Naiydyikds te paratah Saugatds charamam svatah \ pra- 
thamam paratah prahuh pramanyaih veda-vadinah \ pramanat- 
vam svatah prahuh parataschdpramdnatdm' | iti vadi-vivdda- 
darsandt kathamkdram svatah siddham dharma-pramdnyam iti 
siddhavatkritya svlkriyate \ kificha kim idam svatah pramanyaih 
ndma \ kim svata eva pramanyasya janma \ ahosvit svasraya- 
jfidna-janyatvam kim uta svasraya-jfiana-samagri-janyatvam 
utdho jndna-sdmagrl-janya-jndna-viseshd'sritatvam kithva jftdna- 
samagri-matra-janya-jnana-viseshasritatvam \ tatra adyah sdva- 
dyah \ karyya-karana-bhavasya bheda-samanadhikaranatvena 
ekasminn asambhavat \ ndpi dvitlyah \ gunasya sato jnanasya 
pramanyam prati samavdyi-karanataya dravyatvapatat \ napi 
tritlyali pramanyasya upadhitve jdtitve vajanmayogat \ smrititvd- 
nadhikaranasya jiidnasya badhatyantdbhavah pramanyopadhih \ 
na cha tasya utpatti-sambhavah atyantdbhavasya nityatvdbhyu- 
pagamdt \ ata eva najater api janir yujyate \ napi chaturthah \ 
jndna-visesho hy apramd \ visesha-sdmagrydncha sdmanya-sama- 
grl anupravisati \ simsapa-sdmagryam iva vrixa-samagri \ apa- 
rathd tasya akasmikatvam prasajet | tasmdt paratastvena svlkri- 
tdprdmdnyam vijndna-sdmagri-janyasritam ity ativyaptir dpad- 
yeta \ pafichama-vikalpam vikalpaydmah \ kim doshabhava-saha- 
krita-j'hdna-samagrl-janyatvam evajfidna-sdmagri-mdtra-janyat- 
vam kim doshabhavasahakrita-jnana-samagrl-janyatvam \ na 
adyah \ doshabhdva-sahakrita-jfidna-samagri-janyatvam eva para- 
tah pramanyam iti paratah pramanya-vadibhir urarlkarandt \ 
napi dvitlyah I doshdbh&va-sahakritatvena samagryam sahakri- 
tatve siddhe ananyathd-siddhdnvaya-vyatireka-siddhatayd doska- 
bkdvasya kdranatdya vajra-lepdyamanatvat \ abhdvah karanam 
eva na bhavati iti chet tada vaktavyam abhdvasya kdryyatvam 
asti na vd \ yadi nasti tadd pata-pradhvamsdnupapattyV 



APPENDIX. 195 

nityatd-prasangah \ at ha asti /dm apardddham kdranatvena 
iti sd ubhayatali-pasd rajjuh \ tad uditam Udayanena ' bhdvo 
yathd tathd 'bhdvah kdrandm karyya-vad matah' iti \ tatha 
cha prayogah \ vimata prama jndna-hetv-atirikta-hetv-adhlnd 
kdryatve sati tad-vises hatvdt aprama-vat | pramanyam parato 
jftayate anabhydsa-dasdydm sdmsayikatvdt aprdmdnya-vat \ 
tasmad utpattau jfiaptau cha paratastve pramd?ia-sambhavat 
svatah siddham pramanyam ity etat puti-kushmdnddyate iti 
chet | tad etad dkasa-mushti-hanandyate \ vijfidna-sdmagri-jan- 
yatve sati tad-atirihta-hetv-ajanyatoam pramdydk svatastvam iti 
nirukti-sambkavdt \ asti cha atra anumdnam \ vimata prama 
vijfidna-sdmagri-janyatve sati tad-atinkta-janyd na bhavati \ 
apramdtvdnadhikaranatvdt ghatadivat \ na cha audayanam 
anumdnam paratastva-sddhakam iti sanhanlyam \ pramd dosha- 
vyatirihta-jndna-hetv-atirihta-janyd na bhavati \ jftdnatvdd apra- 
mdvad | itipratisddhana-graha-grastatvdt \jfidna-sdmagri-matrad 
eva pramotpatti-sambhave tad-atiriktasya gunasya doshabha- 
vasya vd kdranatva-kalpandydm kalpand-gaurava-prasangdch- 
cha | nanu doshasya apramd-hetutvena tad-abhdvasya pramdm 
prati hetutvam durnivdram iti chet \ na doshdbhdvasya apramd- 
pratibandhakatvena anyatha[a?]siddhatvdt \ ' tasmad gunebhyo 
doshandm abhdvas tad-abhdvatak \ aprdmdnya-dvayasattvain 
tenotsargo nayoditah ' iti | tathd pramd-jflaptir apt jHdna-jiid- 
paka-samagrlta eva jdyate \ na cha samsaydnudaya-prasango 
bddhaka iti yuktam vaktum \ saty api pratibhdsa-pushkala- 
kdrane pratibandhaha-doshddi-samavadhdndt tad-upapatteh \ 
kiftcha tavakam anumdnam svatah-pramdnam na vd \ ddye 
anaikantikatd | dvitlye tasydpi paratah pramanyam evam tasya 
tasydpi ity anavasthd duravasthd syat \ yad atra Kusumdfijaldv 
Udayanena jhatiti prachura-pravritteh pramdnya-nischayddhln- 
atvabhdvam apadayatd pranyagddi pravrittir hi iehckhdm apex- 
ate tat-prdchuryye cha ichchhd-prdchuryyam ichchhd cheshta- 
sddhanatd-jfidnam tachcha ishta-jdtlyatva-lingdnubhavam so 'pi 
indriydrtha-sannikarsham pramanya-grahanantu na kvachid 
upayujyale iti tad api taskarasya purastdt kaxe suvarnam 



196 APPENDIX. 

upetya sarvdngodghdtanam iva pratibhdti \ atah samihita-sddh- 
ana-jnanam eva pramdnatayd avagamyamdnam ickckkdm jana- 
yati ity atraiva sphuta eva prdmdnya-grahanasya upayogali \ 
kificha kmchid apt ched nirvichikitsd pravrittik samsaydd upa- 
padyeta tarhi sarvatra tathd-bhava-sambhavdtprdmdnya-nischayo 
nirarthakali sydt anisckitasya sattvam eva durlabham iti prd- 
mdnyam datta-jalMjalikam bhavet ity alam ati-prapafic/iena \ 
yasmad uktam ' tasmad sad-bodhakatvena prapta buddheh pra- 
manata \ arthanyathatva-hetuttha-dosha-jfianad apodyate' iti \ 
tasmad dkarme svatah-siddka-pramana-bkave ' jyotishtomena 
svarga-kamo yajeta ' ityadi-vidhy-arthavada-mantra-namadkeyat- 
make vede yajeta ity atra ta-pratyayah prakrityarthoparaktam 
bhavandm abhidhatte iti siddhe vyutpattim abhyupagachchhatam 
abhikitanvaya-vddindm Bhattacharyydndm siddhdnto ydga- 
vishayo niyoga iti kdrye vyutpattim anusaratdm anvitdbhidhdna- 
vddindm Prabhdkara-gurundm siddhdnta iti sarvam avadatam \ 
" Be it so. But hpw [the Naiyayikas may ask] is the Veda 
alleged to be underived from any personal author ? How can 
you regard the Vedas as being thus underived, when there is 
no evidence by which this character can be substantiated ? The 
argument urged by you Mimansakas is, that while there is an 
unbroken tradition, still no author of the Veda is remembered, 
in the same way as [none is remembered] in the case of the 
soul (or self). But this argument is very weak, because the 
asserted characteristic [unbrokenness of tradition] is not proved; 
since those who maintain the personal origin [i.e., origin from 
a person] of the Veda, object that the tradition [regarding the 
Veda] was interrupted at the dissolution of the universe (pra^- 
lay a). 1 And further: what is meant by the assertion that no 
author of the Veda is remembered ? Is it (1) that no author 
is believed ? or (2) that no author is the object of recollection ? 
Thejirst alternative cannot be accepted, since it is acknowledged 
[by us] that God (Paramesvara) is proved to be the author. Nor 

1 This objection occurs in a passage of the Kusumanjali, which I shall quote 
further on. 



APPENDIX. 197 

can the second alternative be admitted, as it cannot stand the test 
of the following dilemma, viz., Is it meant (a) that no author 
of the Veda is recollected by some one person, or (b) by any 
person whatever? The former supposition breaks down, since 
it fails when tried by such stanzas as this, ' he who is religious, 
and has overcome pride and anger,' etc. 2 And the latter sup- 
position is inadmissible, since it would be impossible for any 
person who was not omniscient to know that no author of the 
Veda was recollected by any person whatever. 

" And moreover, [the Naiyayikas proceed], the sentences of 
the Veda must have originated with a personal author, as proof 
exists that they had such an origin, since they have the cha- 
racter of sentences, like those of Kalidasa and other writers. 
The sentences of the Veda have been composed by an authorita- 
tive person, since, while they possess authority, they have, at 
the same time, the character of sentences, like those of Manu 
and other sages. 

" But [ask the Mlmansakas] may it not be assumed that, 'All 
study of the Veda was preceded by an earlier study of it by 
the pupil's preceptor, since the study of the Veda must always 
have had one common character, which was the same in former 
times as now ; ' 3 and that this inference has force to prove 
[? that the Veda had no author or was eternal] ? Such reason- 
ing [the Naiyayikas answer] is of no avail as proof, [for it might 
be said in the same way that] ' All study of the Mahabharata 
was preceded by an earlier study of it by the pupil's preceptor, 
since the study of the Mahabharata, from the mere fact of its 
• being such, [must have had the same character in former times] 

2 I do not know from what work this verse is quoted, or what is its sequel. To 
prove anything in point, it must apparently go on to assert that such a saint as is 
here descrihed, remembers the author of the Veda, or at least has such superhuman 
faculties as would enable him to discover the author. 

3 The purport of this verse is, that as every generation of students of the Veda 
must have been preceded by an earlier generation of teachers, and as there is no 
reason to assume any variation in this process by supposing that there ever had been 
any student who taught himself; we have thus a recessus ad infinitum, and must of 
necessity conclude that the Vedas had no author, hut were eternal. 



198 APPENDIX. 

as it has now ; ' and this mere semblance of an argument would 
be of the same value in either case. But [the Mlmansakas 
will ask whether there is not a difference between these two 
cases of the Veda and the Mahabharata, since] the smriti de- 
clares that [Vishnu incarnate as] Vyasa was the author of the 
latter,— according to such texts as this, ' Who else than Pun- 
darikaxa (the lotus-eyed Vishnu) could be the maker of the 
Mahabharata?' (see above, p. 21),— [whilst nothing of this sort 
is recorded in any Sastra in regard to the Veda]. This argu- 
ment, however, is powerless, since it is proved by these words 
of the Purusha-stikta, ' From him sprang the rik and sama 
verses and the metres, and from him the yajush verses,' (above, 
p. 50) that the Veda had a maker. 

"Further, [proceed the Naiyayikas], we must suppose that 
sound [on the eternity of which the eternity and uncreatedness 
of the Veda depend] is not eternal, since, while it belongs to 
a genus, it can, like a jar, be perceived by the external organs 
of beings such as ourselves. But [rejoin the Mlmansakas], 
is not this inference of yours refuted by the proof arising from 
the fact that we recognize the letter G, for example, as the 
same we have heard before? This argument, [replies the 
Naiyayika], is extremely weak, for the recognition in question 
having reference to a community of species (as in the case of 
such words as 'a jasmine tree with sprouted tendrils [?] cut 
and grown again,' etc.) has no force to refute my assertion [that 
letters are not eternal]. 

" But, [asks the Mimansaka], how can the Vedas have been 
composed by the incorporeal Paramesvara (God), who has no 
palate or other organs of speech, and therefore cannot enunciate 
letters ? This objection, [answers the Naiyayika], is worthless, 
because, though Parames'vara is naturally incorporeal, he can 
yet, by way of sport, assume a body, in order to shew kindness 
to his devoted worshippers. Consequently, the arguments in 
favour of the doctrine that the Veda had no personal author 
are inconclusive. 



APPENDIX. 199 

" I shall now, [says the Mimansaka], clear up all these diffi- 
culties. What is meant by this paurusheyatva ('derivation 
from a personal author') which it is sought to prove? Is it 
(1) mere procession (utpannatva) from a person (purusha), like 
the procession of the Veda from persons such as ourselves, when 
we daily utter it? or (2) is it the arrangement, with a view to its 
manifestation, — of knowledge acquired through other channels 
of information, in the sense in which persons like ourselves 
compose a , treatise ? If the first meaning be intended, there 
will be no dispute. If the second sense be meant, I ask whether 
the Veda is proved [to be authoritative] in virtue (a) of its 
being founded on inference, or (b) of its being founded on 
supernatural information ? Reformer alternative (a) [i.e., that 
the Veda derives its authority from being founded on inference] 
cannot be correct, since this theory breaks down, if it be applied 
to the sentences of the Malati Mfidhava or any other secular poem, 
[which may contain inferences destitute of authority]. If, on 
the other hand, you say (b), that the contents of the Veda are 
distinguished from those of other books by having authority, 
this explanation also will fail to satisfy a philosopher. For the 
word of the Veda is [defined to be] a word which proves things 
that are not proveable by any other evidence. Now if it could 
be established that this vedic word did nothing more than prove 
things that are proveable by other evidence, we should be in- 
volved in the same sort of contradiction as if a man were to 
say that Ms mother was a barren woman. And even if we con- 
ceded that Paramesvara might in sport assume a body, it would 
not be conceivable that [in that case] he should perceive things 
beyond the reach of the senses, from the want of any means of 
apprehending objects removed from him in place, in time, and in 
nature. Nor is it to be thought that his eyes and other senses 
alone would have the power of producing such knowledge, since 
men can only attain to conceptions corresponding with what 
they have perceived. This is what has been said by the Guru 
(Prabhakara) when he refutes [the supposition of] an omniscient 



200 



APPENDIX. 



person : ' Whenever any object is perceived [by the organ of 
sight] in its most perfect exercise, such perception can only 
have reference to the vision of something very distant or very 
minute, since no organ can go beyond its own proper objects, 
as e.g., the ear can never become cognizant of form.' Hence 
the authority of the Veda does not arise in virtue of any super- 
natural information [acquired by the Deity in a corporeal shape, 
and embodied in the sacred text]. 

" In spite of the weight attaching [?] 4 to the rule of Panini 
(see above, p. 87) that the grammatical affix with which the 
words Kathaka, Kalapa, and Taittirlya are formed, imparts to 
those derivatives the sense of ' uttered by ' Katha, Kalapa, etc., 
it is established that the names first mentioned have reference 
[not to those parts of the Veda being 'uttered' by the sages 
in question, but] to the fact that these sages instituted the 
practice of studying those parts of the Veda. Here also these 
appellations ought to be understood in the same manner, as 
referring to the fact of those sages being the institutors of the 
study of the Veda ; and we are not to think that the eternity 
of sound [or of the words of the Veda] is disproved by the 
force of any inference [to be drawn from those names], since 
this would be at variance with the recognition [of letters as the 
same we knew before] (see above, Mimansa Sutra, i. 13, 
p. 56). Nor, even though [numerical] unity were not [pre- 
dicable of each particular letter] (see Mimansa Sutra, i. 20, 
above p. 58), is it proper to insist that each letter is a term 
expressive of a species. The supposition that it is a generic 
term is opposed [?] by the intervention of powerful contrary 
arguments ; or by our perceiving that sometimes this character 
would fail to be applicable. In respect to those who, while 
they observe that [a definition] is inapplicable in some cases, 
yet disregard this circumstance, the following remark has been 
made by those [the Mimansakas, etc.] who maintain the self- 

4 Literally, although the rule of Panini be awake. The sense given in the text 
is the only one I can think of. 



APPENDIX. 201 

proving power [of the Veda] : ' The man who through bewilder- 
ment disregards even an unknown refutation, being in all 
matters full of doubt, perishes.' 

' But [the Naiyayikas will ask], does not the recognition [of 
G and other letters as the same we knew before] refer to them 
as belonging to the [same] species, and not as being the [same] 
individual letters, since, in fact, they are perceived to be dif- 
ferent [as uttered by] each person, and since otherwise it would 
be impossible for us to make any distinction [between different 
readers, as when we say], ' Somasarman is reading?' This 
objection, however, has as little brilliancy as its predecessors, 
and has been answered in this way, viz., that as there is no 
proof of any distinction of individuality between G's, etc., there 
is no evidence that we ought to suppose any such thing as a 
species of G's, etc. [i.e., of G's and other letters each consti- 
tuting a species]. Just as to the man who is ignorant that G's 
constitute a species, [that letter], though one only, becomes 
(through distinction of place, magnitude, form [?], individuals, 
and position [?]) variously modified as distinct in place, as 
small, as great, as long, or as short, in the same way, to the 
man who is ignorant of an individuality of G's, [i.e., of G's 
being numerically different from each other], this letter, though 
only one, appears, from the distinction existing between the dif- 
ferent persons who utter it, to be connected with their respective 
peculiarities ; and as contrary characters are in this way erro- 
neously ascribed [to the letter G], there is a fallacious appear- 
ance of distinctness [between different G's]. But does this 
ascription of contrary characters which we thus regard as creat- 
ing a difference [between G's], result from (1) the nature of the 
thing, or (2) from mere appearance? There is no proof of 
the first alternative, as otherwise an inherent difference being 
admitted between different G's, it would be established that 
Ohaitra had uttered ten [different] G's, and not [the same] G 
tea times. But on the second supposition, there is no proof of 
any inherent distinction [between G's] ; for inherent oneness (or 



202 



APPENDIX. 



identity) is not destroyed by a difference of extrinsic disguises 
[or characteristics]. We must not conceive, from the merely 
apparent distinctness [occasioned by the separation of its parts] 
by jars, etc., that there is any inherent distinctness in the atmo- 
sphere itself. The fact is that when the action of sound is 
intercepted [by the atmosphere], it ceases to be audible. 6 It 
has been said by the Acharyya, ' The object which the Naiya- 
yikas seek, by supposing a species, is in fact gained from the 
letter itself; and the object at which they aim by supposing an 
individuality in letters, is attained from audible sounds {i.e., the 
separate utterances of the different letters), so that the hypo- 
thesis of species, etc., is useless.' And we thus reach the con- 
clusion that, ' since, in respect of sounds (letters), recognition 
has so irresistible a power, [literally, makes, unrestrained^, it 
alone repels all inferences against the eternity [of sound, or the 
Veda]. 

This refutes what has been said by Vagisvara in the Mana- 
manohara, that ' sound is not eternal, because it is the quality 
of a particular organ, as form is of the eye ; ' for it is to 
those who declare sound to be a substance, [and to them only?] 
that the perception [of sound in this manner] is established, 
while as regards audible sound, the assertion of this percepti- 
bility is merely a proving of what is admitted ; and because this 
theory of sound being the quality of a particular sense is dis- 
proved by the characteristic of not making itself [always?] audible. 

* I am by no means sure that this sentence is correctly rendered, but have no 
preferable translation to suggest. I owe the reader some apology for the imperfect 
and tentative character of my version in many parts of the remainder of this extract. 
But having begun the translation, I was naturally anxious to carry it on as far as I 
could. As this part of the Sarva-dars'ana-sangraha has not before been rendered into 
any European language, and we possess as yet no work which explains completely all 
the technical terms of Indian logic and philosophy, I am unfortunately in an opposite 
predicament to that on which Kalidasa congratulated himself at the commencement 
of his task of celebrating the race of the Eaghus, when he was able to say that he 
could enter upon his subject, which had been previously handled by earlier poets, 
with the same ease, as a thread penetrates into a gem which has been perforated by a 
diamond" (manau vajra-samutlctrne sutrasyevasti me gatiK). The reader must just 
take this part of my translation for so much as he finds it to be worth. But I think 
that, though I may have erred in details, I have not mistaken the general scope. 



APPENDIX. . 203 

And Udayana — maintaining by a long dissertation that, though 
the substratum be not perceptible by sense, still the non-exist- 
ence [of sound] is perceptible, and [observing it to be] a cus- 
tomary occurrence that when noise ceases, sound is produced — 
alleges that perception, which is the cause of that phenomenon, 
is a proof of the non-eternity of sound. He also is- refuted by 
showing the merely adventitious character of the [effect pro- 
duced on letters by the] influence of opposite qualities [in the 
speakers], just as a sacrificial knife is only stained superficially 
by a bloody oblation. And, again, the difficulty which has been 
raised to the eternity of sound by the author of the Nyaya- 
bhushana, on the ground that it is not observed to be constantly 
perceived, — this difficulty also is removed by the admitted fact 
that sound which has been articulated in utterance is perceived. 
Once more, the inference which is drawn in reference to there 
being a fixed relation between the articulator and the [sound] to 
be . articulated, from sound having reference to the organs [of 
.many persons ?] at one and the same time, this is inconclusive 
in itself [?], there being no confused noise. And hence, as every 
stain of doubt which . has come to light has been set aside by 
the underived character of the Veda, its authority as proof in 
matters of duty is clearly established. 

" Be it so. But [verse] 'the Sankhyas say that both authorita- 
tiveness and non-authoritativeness are self-derived ; the Naiya- 
yikas maintain that both are dependent on something external ; 
the Bauddhas assert that non-authoritativeness is self-derived, 
while authoritativeness depends on something extraneous to itself; 
and the upholders of the Veda declare that authoritativeness is 
self-derived, and the absence of it dependent on something exter- 
nal.' Now, when we observe the differences between the assertors 
of these several views, how can it be admitted as a settled point 
that there is such a thing as self-proved authority for duty? 
And what is this self-proved authority ? What is its source (lit. 
birth) ? Does it spring (1) from self-dependent knowledge ? or 
(2) from the constituents (or totality) of self-dependent know- 



204 • APPENDIX. 

ledge ? or (3) does it depend on some special knowledge spring- 
ing from the constituents (or totality) of knowledge? or (4) 
does it depend on some special knowledge springing from the 
mere constituents (or totality) of knowledge? The first sup- 
position is faulty, from the fact that cause and effect, which are 
categorically distinct, cannot properly be placed in the same 
class, or predicated of the same subject. The second supposi- 
tion is no better, owing to the objection that, whereas knowledge 
is a quality, the character of a substance is here ascribed to its 
self-evidencing authority, since the function of a material cause 
is assigned to it. Nor can the third supposition be allowed, 
for as self-evidencing power is either an attribute (upadki) or a 
species, production (i.e., the being produced) does not apply to 
it. The condition, of authoritativeness is the absolute absence of 
any defect in knowledge which has not recollection [?] for its 
basis. Now such authoritativeness cannot possibly be produced, 
as it is admitted that absolute non-existence is eternal; and con- 
sequently the production of species also is inadmissible. The 
fourth supposition is equally faulty, for special knowledge is 
something unauthoritative, and the constituents of the general [or 
genus] enter into the constituents of the special, as the substance 
of a tree in general enters into the substance of the [particular] 
tree, the sinsapa (sisu). Otherwise we should be involved in 
the absurdity that it had no cause. Hence that which depends 
on what is produced from the constituents of knowledge is con- 
fessedly unauthoritative, from its dependence on something ex- 
ternal, and thus your definition will fail by embracing too much 
(atim/apti). 

" We shall now (interposes the Mlmansaka) propose a fifth 
supposition. What do you mean by ' springing from the mere 
constituents, [or simple totality] of knowledge ? ' Does it 
mean (1) ' the springing from the constituents of a knowledge 
which is accompanied by the absence of defects {i.e., which is 
faultless ?),' or (2) ' the springing from the constituents of a 
knowledge which is ^accompanied by the absence of defects 



APPENDIX. 205 

{i.e., which is faulty)?' It cannot be the first, for 'a spring- 
ing from the constituents of knowledge which is accompanied 
by the absence of defects [i.e., which v is faultless] is simply 
authoritativeness derived from something external, as is allowed 
by those who maintain that authoritativeness is derived from 
something external. Nor can it be the second, for the character 
of accompaniedness being substantiated in regard to any object, 
by the circumstance of its being accompanied by the absence of 
defects, 6 ...... 



If you object that non-existence [as in this case of the non- 
existence of defects] cannot be a cause, then you must tell us 
whether it (non-existence) is an effect or not. If it be not, 
then from the [consequent] impossibility [of any substance], a 
piece of cloth [for instance], being destroyed, we are entangled 
in the absurdity of supposing that it must be eternal. But 
if non-existence be an effect, what error is there in asserting 
its causality also? thus this rope binds [you] at both ends. 
And Udayana says (Kusumanjali, i. 10), ' Just as existence, so 
also non-existence is regarded as a cause, as well as an effect.' 

And now we shall apply this : variously-understood truth 
(prama) is (our opponents say) dependent on a cause distinct 
from the cause of knowledge, from the fact of its being a pro- 
duction, and as such, possessing the particular character of a 
production, just as is the case with error [or the absence of 
truth, aprama]. And authoritativeness is regarded as being 
derived from something external, owing to the doubtfulness [of 
the student ?J before he has made the matter a subject of repeated 
study, just as is the case with unauthoritativeness. But to 
describe as self-proved authoritativeness that which, in its 
origin and in its [earliest] comprehension, thus derives its 
proof from an external source, is (they say) to make an asser- 

s I am unable to make out the meaning of the remainder of this sentence, and 
must therefore leave it untranslated. 



206 



APPENDIX. 



tion which is utterly worthless. 7 But this objection of theirs is as 
vain as beating the air with their fists. [Such a thing as] a pro- 
duction from the constituents of knowledge [being admitted], it 
is in not being produced from any cause distinct from that, that 
the self-derivation of truth [or knowledge] consists. This results 
from the explanation of the term itself. And here we have also 
an inference [to rely upon]. There being [such a thing as] a pro- 
duction from the constituents of knowledge, variously-understood 
truth [or knowledge] does not spring from anything distinct 
from this, since it has not erroneousness as its basis, as jars, etc., 
[have no unhomogeneous material as their basis (?)]. Nor is it 
to be surmised that Udayana's inference proves [authoritative- 
ness to have] an external source. Correct knowledge does not, 
like error, spring from anything distinct from the cause of a 
knowledge which is devoid of defects, because it is knowledge, 
so that [Udayana's objection] is carried away by the demon of 
adverse proof [?]. And since it appears that authoritativeness 
springs from the simple constituents of knowledge, if you suppose 
that any quality distinct from that, or that the absence of defect, 
is the cause [of authoritativeness], you will incur the charge of 
making more suppositions than are necessary to explain the 
facts. If it be objected to this, that since defect is the cause of 
unauthoritativeness, it cannot be denied that the absence of defect 
must be the cause of authoritativeness, we deny this, since the 
absence of defect (or faultlessness) is, on other grounds, not 
proved 8 to be that which prevents unauthoritativeness." 

I shall not attempt to carry farther my translation of this 
abstruse discussion, as the remainder contains several parts 
which I should find it difficulty to render. The real proof or 
disproof of the authority of the Veda must rest on grounds very 

1 I do not know the proper meaning of the word puti-kuslimandayate. Tuti 
means either "purification" or "stench;" and kushmandayale is a nominal verb 
formed from Icushmanda, a " gourd." The compound may therefore mean " it is like 
a gourd full of filth." 

8 I take the anyathasiddhatvat, which I find in the Calcutta text, to be for {cmyatha 
asiddhalvat). 



APPENDIX. 207 

much less abstract and metaphysical than such as are here 
argued with so much subtlety. 

The following passage from Sankara's commentary on the 
Brahma Sutras, iii. 2, 40, is partly quoted in Prof. Banerjea's 
forthcoming work on Hindu Philosophy. In the two preceding 
Sutras, as explained by Sankara, it had been asserted, both on 
grounds of reason and on the authority of the Veda, that God is 
the author of rewards. In the 40th Sutra a different doctrine is 
ascribed to Jaimini : v Dharmcm Jaiminir ata eva || Jaiminis to 
dchdryyo dharmam phalasya ddtaram manyate \ ata eva hetdh 
sruter upapattescha \ sruyate tdvad ayam arthah ' svarga-kdmo 
yajeta' ity evam ddishu vdkyeshu \ tatra cha vidhi-sruter vishaya- 
bhavopagamdd ydgah svargasya utpadakah- iti gamyate \ anya- 
tha hy ananushthdtriko yaga apadyeta tatra asya upadesasya 
vaiyarthyafh syat \ nanv anuxana-vinasinah karmanali phalaih, 
na upapadyate iti parity akto 'yam paxali \ na esha doshah sruti- 
pramanyat \ srutis chet pramanaih yatha 'yam karma-phala- 
sambandhali srutali upapadyate tatha kalpayitavyah \ na cha 
anutpadya kimapy apurvam karma vinasyat kalantaritam pha- 
laih datum saknoti ity atah karmano va suxma kachid uttara- 
vastha phalasya va purvavastha apurvam nama asti iti tarkyate \ 
upapadyate cha ayam arthah uktena prakarena \ Isvarastu pha- 
laih dadati ity anupapannam amchitrasya karanasya vichitra- 
karyyanupapatteh \ vaishamya-nairghrinya-prasangad anush- 
thdna-vaiyarthydpattes cha \ tasmdd dharmdd eva phalam iti | 
" 'Jaimini says that for this reason virtue [is the giver of re- 
ward].' The Acharyya Jaimini regards virtue [i.e., the per- 
formance of the prescribed rites and duties] as the bestower 
of reward. ' For Jhis reason,' and because it is proved by the 
Veda. This is the purport of the Vedic text, ' Let the man who 
seeks paradise, sacrifice,' and others of the same kind. As here, 
we learn the existence of the object [referred to] in the Vedic 
injunction in question, it is concluded that sacrifice has the 
effect of producing heaven ; for otherwise we should be involved 
in the absurdity of a sacrifice without a performer [since no one 



208 



APPENDIX. 



would care to sacrifice without an object?], and thus the injunc- 
tion would become fruitless. But may it not be said that it is not 
conceivable that any fruit should result from a ceremony which 
perishes every moment, so that this view must be abandoned? 
No, this defect does not attach to our Mlmansaka statement, since 
the Veda is authoritative. If the Veda be proof, this connection 
of the reward with the ceremony must be supposed to exist just 
as it is proved in the Veda. And from the fact that a ceremony 
which perishes without generating any unseen virtue, can yet 
produce a reward at a distant time, it must not be concluded 
that there is either a certain subtile ulterior form of the cere- 
mony, or a certain subtile anterior form of the reward, which is 
called ' unseen virtue.' And this result is established in the 
manner before mentioned. But it is not proved that God 
bestows rewards, because it is inconceivable that a uniform 
cause should produce various effects, and because the perform- 
ance of ceremonies would be useless, owing to the inequality 
and unmercifulness which would attach [to the supposed arbiter 
of men's deserts]. Hence it is from virtue that reward results." 

How far this passage may be sufficient to prove the atheism 
of the Mlmansa, I will not attempt to say. Before we could 
decide on such a question, the Sutras of that school which 
refer to this question (if there be any such) would have to be 
consulted. 

Professor Banerjea also quotes the following text from the 
popular work, the Vidvan-modatarangini, in which the Mlman- 
sakas are distinctly charged with atheism : Bevo na kaschid 
bhuvanasya kartta bhartta na hartta 'pi cha kaschid aste \ 
karmanurupani subhasubhani prapnoti sarvo hi janali pha- 
lanx || vedasya kartta na cha kaschid aste nitya hi sabdah 
rachana hi nitya \ pramanyam asmin svata eva siddham anadi- 
siddheh paratak kathatii tat | "There is no God, maker 
of the world; nor has it any sustainer or destroyer; for 
every man obtains a recompense in conformity with his works. 
Neither is there any maker of the Veda, for its words ^are 



APPENDIX. 209 

eternal, and their arrangement is eternal. Its authoritative- 
ness is self-demonstrated, for since this authoritativeness has 
been established from eternity, how can it be dependent upon 
anything beyond itself?" 

I am informed by Prof. Banerjea that the Mimansaka com- 
mentator Prabhakara and his school make out the Purva 
Mlmansa to be an atheistic system, while Kumarila treats it as 
theistic. The last named author makes the following complaint 
at the commencement of his Varttika, verse 10 : Prdyenaiva hi 
mimamsa loke lokdyatlkrita | tam astika-pathe karttum ayam 
yatnah krito maya \ " For in practice the Mlmansa has been for 
the most part converted into a Lokayata (atheistic) system 
(see Oolebrooke's Essays, i. 402 ff., or pp. 259 ff. of W. and 
N.'s ed.) ; but I have made this effort to bring it into a theistic 
path." See also the lines which are quoted from the Padma 
Purana by Vijnana Bhixu, commentator on the Sankhya 
aphorisms, in a passage which I shall adduce further on, in a 
note on p. 103. 

Note IV. on Page 80, Line 18. 

The Tarka-sangraha 9 says : Yakyarh dvividham vaidikam lauki- 
kaficha | vaidikam Isvaroktatvat sarvam eva pramanam \ lauki- 
kantu aptoktam pramanam anyad apramanam | " Sentences are 
of two kinds, Vedic and secular. Vedic sentences, from being 
uttered by Tsvara, are all proof [or authoritative]. Of secular 
sentences, those only which are uttered by a competent [or wise] 
person (apta) are proof; the rest are not proof." 

In this text, the authority of the Veda is founded on its being 
uttered by Is'vara ; and this characteristic is regarded as limited 
to the Veda. On the other hand, such secular works as proceed 
from a competent person (apta) are also declared to possess 
authority. Here, therefore, a distinction appears to be drawn 
between the authority of the Veda and that of all other writings, 

9 See p. 40 of Dr. Ballantyne's ed. with Hindi and English Versions, p. 40 of the 
Sanskrit. 

, 14 



210 APPENDIX. 

however authoritative, inasmuch as the former was uttered by 
lsvara, while the latter have only been uttered by some compe- 
tent person (apta). But in the Nyaya aphorism, ii. 68, quoted 
in p. 80, the authority of the Veda itself is made to rest on the 
authority of the wise, or competent person (apta), from whom 
it proceeded. In the aphorism, therefore, either the word apta 
must mean lsvara, or we must suppose a difference of view 
between the author of the aphorism and the writer of the Tarka- 
sangraha. We shall see in the next note that the author of the 
Kusumanjali coincides with the Tarka-sangraha. 

If the author of the Nyaya Sutras did not believe in an 
lsvara (see the conclusion of the next note), he could not of 
course derive the Veda from such a source. Prof. Banerjea, in 
his forthcoming work on Hindu Philosophy, quotes the follow- 
ing definition of the word apta from Vatsayana : Aptdh khalk 
saxat-krita-dharma \ yatha-drishtasya arthasya chikkyapayi- 
shaya prayuktah upadeshta \ saxat-karanam arthasya aptis \ 
taya varttate ity aptah \ " A competent person (apta) means 
one who has an intuitive perception of duty (the word saxat- 
hrita-dharman is used in the Nirukta, i. 20 ; see Part Second, 
pp. 174 and 176 ; and p. 95, note 48, above), — an instructor 
possessed by the desire of communicating some subject-matter, 
just as it was seen by him. This intuitive perception constitutes 
competence (apti). A person who has this competence is com- 
petent." Apta would thus be equivalent to rishi, and could not 
refer to lsvara. 

The following words are put by the author of the Vishnu 
Purana (iii. ch. 18 ; Wilson, p. 340) into the mouth of the 
deluder who promulgated the Bauddha and other heresies : Na 
hy apta-vadd nabhaso nipatanti mahasurali \ yuktimad rachanaih 
grahyam rnaya 'nyaischa bhavadmdhaili \ " Words of the com- 
petent do not, great Asuras, fall from the sky. It is only words 
supported by reasons that should be admitted by me and others 
like yourselves." 



APPENDIX. 211 

Note V. on Page 81, Line 13. 

I extract from the Kusumanjali of Udayana Acharya, and its 
commentary (published at the Sanskrit Press, Calcutta, in the 
Saka year, 1769), some fuller statements of the Naiyayika doc- 
trine regarding the origin and authority of the Veda. Mr. 
Oolebrooke (Ess. i. 263, or p. 166 of W. and N.'s ed.) speaks of- 
this treatise as being accompanied by a commentary of Nara- 
yana Tirtha ; but the one which is printed in the Calcutta 
edition, is said to be by Haridasa Bhattacharya. The object of 
the work appears to be to prove the existence of a personal god 
(Isvara), in opposition to various other antagonistic theories. 

I. Kusumanjali, 2nd Stavaka, at the commencement : Anya- 
tha 'pi paraloka-sddhandnushthana-sambhavad iti dvitiya-vipra- 
tipattili | Anyathd Tsvaram vina 'pi paraloka-sddhanaih yagady- 
anushthdnaM sambhavati yagadek svarga-sadhanatvasya veda- 
gamyatvat \ nitya-nirdoshataya cha vedasya pramanyam \ maha- 
jana-parigrahachcha pramanyasya graha iti veda-karanataya 
na Isvara-siddMh \ yogardhi-sampadita-sarvajfiya-kapiladi-pur- 
vaka eva va vedo 'stu ity atra aha \ " pramayali paratantratvat 
sarga-pralaya-sambkavat \ tad-anyasminn avisvasad na vidhan- 
tara-sambhavah " | Sabdi prama vaktri-yathartha-vakyartha-dhi- 
rupa-guna-janya iti gunddharataya Isvara-siddhih \ nanu sakar- 
trike 'stu yathartha-vakyartha-dhlr gunah \ akaHrike cha vede 
nirdoshatvam evapramanya-prayojakam astu \ mahajana-parigra- 
hena cha pramanya-graha ity ata aha \ " sarga-pralaya-sambha- 
vad" iti pralayottaram purva-veda-nasad utta,ra-vedasya katham 
pramanyam mahajana-parigrahasyapi tada abhavat \ sabdasya 
anityatvam utpanno ga-kara iti pratlti-siddham \ pravahavich- 
chheda-rupa-nityatvam api pralaya-sambhavad nasti iti bhavah \ 
Kapiladaya eva puwa^l-sargadau pilrva-sargabhyasta-yoga- 
janya-dkarmanubhavat saxat-krita-sakalarthah karttarah santu \ 
ity ata aha \ " tad-anyasminn " iti \ visva-nirmdna-samartha 
animadi-'sakti-sampanna yadi sarvajftas tada laghavad eka eva 
tddrisaTi svlkriyatdm |- sa eva bhagavan Isvarah \ anitydsarva- 



212 APPENDIX. 

vishayaka-jftanavati cha visvasa eva nasti \ iti vaidika-vyavahara- 
vilopah iti na vidhantarctrsambhavah Isvarananglkartri-naye iti 
seshah \ 

" The second objection is that [there is no proof of an Isvara], 
since the means of attaining paradise can be practised independently 
of any such Being. That is to say, the celebration of sacrifices, 
etc., which are the instruments of obtaining paradise, can take 
place otherwise, i.e., even without an Is'vara (God). For the fact 
that sacrifices, etc., are the instruments of obtaining paradise is 
to be learned from the Veda, while the authority of the Veda 
rests upon its eternal faultlessness ; and the [immemorial] 
admission of that authority results from its reception by illus- 
trious men. Now, as in this way the Veda is the cause [of final 
liberation], there is no proof of a God. Or let it be supposed 
that the Veda was preceded [composed] by Kapila and other 
sages, who by their wealth in devotion had acquired omni- 
science. 

" In answer to this, the author says : [verse] ' Since truth, 
[or authoritativeness] depends on an external source (see the 
passage from the Sarva-dars'ana-sangraha, above, p. 203), since 
creation and dissolution are probable, and since there is no 
confidence in any other than God, therefore no other manner 
can be conceived [in which the Veda originated, except from 
God (?) ].' [Comment] Scriptural truth [or authoritativeness] 
is derived from the attribute, possessed by its promulgator, of 
comprehending the true sense of words [i.e., in order to 
constitute the Veda an authoritative rule of duty, it must have 
proceeded from an intelligent being who understood the sense 
of what he uttered, and not, as some maintain (see above, 
pp. 83, 104, 105), from a being who unconsciously breathed it 
out] ; and since God is the substratum of this attribute [of 
intelligence], there is proof of his existence. 

" But it may be said, that this comprehension of the true sense 
of what is uttered may be a quality belonging to a created 
being ; and, again, it may be the faultlessness of the uncreated 



APPENDIX. 213 

Veda, which imparts to it its authority, while the [immemorial] 
admission of that authority results from its reception by illus- 
trious men. 

" In answer to this, the author says : ' Since creation and 
dissolution are probable.' Since the previous Veda (the one 
which existed during the former mundane period) perished after 
the dissolution of the universe, how can the subsequent Veda 
[i.e., the one supposed by our opponents to have existed during 
the dissolution] be authoritative, since there was not then even 
any reception of it by illustrious men [who also had all become 
extinct at the dissolution]. That is to say, the non-eternity of 
sound is proved by the conviction we have that letters such as Gl- 
are produced, [and not eternal] ; and even that eternity (or per- 
petuity) of the Veda which consists in unbroken continuity of 
tradition, does not exist, as there is probable proof of a dissolu- 
tion. 10 But, again, some one will say that Kapila and other 
saints — who, from their perception of duty, springing from the 
practice of devotion during the former mundane period, had 
acquired an intuitive knowledge of every subject — may at the 
creation have been the authors of the Veda. This is answered 
in the words, ' since there is no confidence in any other but 
God.' If persons capable of creating the universe and possess- 
ing the faculty of minuteness be omniscient, then, for the sake 
of simplicity, let one such person only be admitted, namely, the 
divine Isvara. And no confidence can be reposed in any person 
who is not eternal, or who is not possessed of a knowledge which 
extends to all objects. Thus the Vedic tradition [?] disappears. 
And so he concludes that no other manner [of the origination 
of the Veda ?] can be conceived [except from Is'vara ?] ; that 
is, in the system of those who deny an Isvara [no hypothesis 

10 The Mimansakas, or at least the Vedantists, seem to reply to this Naiyayika 
objection about the interruption of the tradition of the Veda through the dissolution 
of the universe, by saying that the Veda was retained in the memory of Brahma 
during the interval whilst the dissolution lasted. See Kulluka on Manu, i. 23, above, 
p. 5 ; and S'ankara on the Brahma Sutras, i. 3, 29, above, pp. 68 and 72 ; and compare 
the passages from the Mahabhashya, etc., in the concluding note of this Appendix. 



214 APPENDIX. 

can be framed which will account for the production of the 
Veda?]." 

II. Kusumanjali, iii. IQ.—Napramanam anaptoktir nadrishte 
kvachid aptata \ adri'sya-drishtau sanajfio na cha nityagamah 
xamah \ ay am hi sarva-kartritvabhavavedakah sabdah anaptoktas 
ched na pramanam \ aptoktas ched etad-artha-gockara-jn'anavato 
nitya-sarva-vishayaka-jn'anavattvam indriyady-abhdvat \ agamas- 
ya cha nityatvam dushitam evaprag iti veda-karo nityah sarvajfiah 
siddhyati | [Verse] " The word of an incompetent person is not 
authoritative ; nor can there be any competency in regard to a 
thing unseen. To perceive invisible things, a person must be 
omniscient ; and an eternal scripture is impossible. [Comment] 
This [supposed] scriptural testimony, denying the fact of any 
creation whatever, if uttered by an incompetent person, would 
be no proof. If it was uttered by a competent person, then the 
person who possessed an acquaintance with this circumstance 
[universal non-creation] would be master of a knowledge which 
was eternal, and universal in its range, from his not being 
limited by any bodily organs. And we have previously dis- 
proved the eternity of any scripture (see the first extract from 
the Kusumanjali, above). Consequently an omniscient and 
eternal author of the Veda is established." 

III. Kusumanjali, v. 1. — Karyyayojana-dhrityadeh paddt 
pratyayatah sruteh \ vakyat sankhya-viseshachcha sadhyo visva- 
vid avyayah | . . . Pratyayatah pramanyat \ veda-janya-jMnam 
karana-guna-janyam pramatvdt \ pratyaxadi-prama-vat \ sruter 
vedat | vedah paurusheyo vedatvdd ayurveda-vat \ ki&cha vedafy 
paurusheyo vakyatvad bharatadi-vat \ veda-vakyani paurusheyani 
vakyatvad asmad-adi-vakya-vat \ [Verse] "An omniscient and 
indestructible Being is to be proved from [the existence of] effects, 
from the junction of [atoms], from the support [of the earth in 
the sky], from action, from belief [in revelation], from the 
Veda, from sentences, and from particular numbers." 

The following is so much of the comment as refers to the words 
pratyaya, sruti, and vakya : " Prom belief, i.e., from authorita- 



APPENDIX. 215 

tiveness. The knowledge derived froin the Veda is derived from 
the attributes of its Cause ; since it is true knowledge, like the 
true knowledge derived from perception. From the s'ruti, i.e., 
the Veda. The Veda is [shewn to be] derived from a person, 
by its having the characters of a Veda, like the Ayur-veda. It 
is also [shewn to be] derived from a person, by having the 
character of sentences, like the Mahabharata. The words of the 
Veda are [shewn to be] derived from a person, by their having 
the character of sentences, like the sentences of persons such as 
ourselves." 

IV. Kusunianjali, v. 16. — ' Syam' ' abhuvam' ' bhavishyaml' 
'lyadau sankkya pravaktri-ga \ samakhya 'pi cka sakhanam 
nadya-pravachanad rite \ Vaidikottama-puruskena svatantroch- 
chdrayituh sankkya vachya \ ' sa aixata eko 'ham bahu syam 7 
ityadi bahulam uttama-purusha sruteh \ sankkya-paddrtkam 
any am aha 'samakhya' ityadi \ sarvasdm sakhanam hi Kathaka- 
Kalapakadydh sankhyah sankhya-viseskah sruyante \ te cka na 
adhyayana-matra-nibandkanah \ adhyetrlndm anantyat \ anadav 
anyair api tad-adhyayanat \ tasmad atindriyartka-darsi bhaga- 
van eva Isvarah karunikah sargaddv asmad-ddy-adrishtdkrishta 
[k ?~\ ll kathakddi-sarira-msesham adhishthaya yam yam sakkdm 
uktavams tasyah sakhayas tanndmnd vyapadesa iti siddham Isvara- 
mananam moxa-hetuh \ [Verse] "The phrases ' let me be,' ' I was,' 
' I shall be,' [which occur in the Veda] have reference to a speaker ; 
-and the designations of the sakhds could only have been derived 
from a primeval utterance. [Comment] The first person (I), when 
it occura in the Veda, must be employed to denote the words of 
a self-dependent utterer. Now there are many instances there 
of such a use of the first person, as in the words, ' He 
reflected, I am one, let me become many.' The author then 
specifies another signification of the term 'word,' or 'name,' 
{sankkya) in the clause, 'and the designations,' etc. For all 

11 I have translated as if there had been a visargA at the end of this word, though 
there is none in the Calcutta text. If the visarga be not allowed, we must translate, 
" the bodies of Katha, etc., which were drawn by the destiny," etc. 



216 APPENDIX. 

the sakhas bear in the Veda the names, the special names, of 
Kathaka, Kalapaka, etc. And these names cannot be connected 
with the mere study [of these sakhas by Katha, Kalapa, etc.] from 
the infinite multitude of students, since if the Veda had no 
beginning, it must have been studied by others besides the 
persons just mentioned. Wherefore the particular sakhas which 
Isvara, the seer of objects beyond the reach of the senses, the 
compassionate Lord himself uttered, — when at the beginning of 
the creation, drawn on by the destiny (adris/ita) of beings like 
ourselves, he assumed the bodies of Katha, etc.,— these sakhas, 
I say, were designated by the names of the particular sages 
[in whose persons they were promulgated]. And so it is 
proved that the contemplation of Is'vara is the cause of final 
liberation." 

I am unable to say if the ancient doctrine of the Nyaya was 
theistic, like that of the Kusumanjali, the Tarka-sangraha, 12 and 
the Siddhanta Muktavali (p. 6 of Dr. Ballantyne's ed., or p. 12 
of his " Christianity contrasted with Hindu Philosophy," and 
p. 3 of Dr. Boer's Bhasha-parichchheda, in Bibl. Ind.) The 
remarks of Dr. Boer on the subject, in pp. xv., xvi., of the 
introduction to the last named work, may be consulted. The 
subject is also discussed by Prof. Banerjea in his forthcoming 
work on Hindu philosophy. The solution of the question will 
depend much on the interpretation to be given to the aphorisms 
of Gotama, 19-21 of the fourth book. 

Note VI. on Page 89, Line 12. 

I find that the phrase kalatyayapadishta, which here (and in 
p. 91/ line 21) I have rendered " refuted by the length of time," 
is a technical term in the Nyaya philosophy, denoting one of 
the hetv-abhasas, or " mere semblances of reasons," and is thus 

13 Jnanadhikaraham atma | sa dvwidho jivatma paramatma clia \ tatra Iivarah 
sarvajnah paramatma eka eva \ jivatma prati sartram bhinno vibhur nityaieha \ "The 
substratum of knowledge is soul. It is of two kinds, the embodied 60ul, and the 
supreme soul. Of these the supreme soul is the omniscient Is'vara, one only. The 
embodied soul is distinct in each body, all-pervading, and eternal." 



APPENDIX. 217 

defined in the Nyaya Sutras, i. 49 : Kdldtyaydpadishtah kdld- 
tltah | which Dr. Ballantyne (Aph. of the Nyaya, p. 42) thus 
explains : " That [semblance of a reason] is Mistimed, which 
is adduced when the time is not [that when it might have 
availed]." 

"[For example, suppose one argues that] fire does not con- 
tain heat, because it is factitious, [his argument is mistimed, if 
we have already ascertained, by the superior evidence of the 
senses, that fire does contain heat]." 

Part of the comment of "Visvanatha on this sutra is as follows : 
Atlta-kdlasya samdndrthakatvdt kaldtlta-sabdena uktam kdlasya 
sddhana-kdlasya atyaye abhace apadishtah prayukto hetuh \ etena 
sddhydbhdva-pramd-laxaiidrtha iti suc/dtam \ sadhydbhdva-nir- 
naye sddhandsambhavdd ayam eva bddhita-sddhyaka iti giyate \ 

Note VII. on Page 90, Line 19. 

See also the passage from the Vrihad Aranyaka Upanishad 
(Bibl. Ind. pp. 215, 216), quoted in Part Second, pp. 376, 377, 
note 4. 

Note VIII. on Page 103, Line 9. 

I find that Vijnana Bhixu, the commentator on the Sankhya 
aphorisms, takes very nearly the same view as is here quoted 
from Madhusudana Sarasvati, in regard to the superiority of 
the Brahma Mlmansa or Vedanta over the other Dars'anas. 

In his Sankhya-pravachana'-bhashya (Bibliotheca Indica, pp. 
3 if.), he thus writes : Sydd etat \ Nyaya-vaiseJtikabhyam atra 
avirodho bhavatu \ brahma-mlma'ffisd-yogabhyam tu virodho 'sty 
eva | tabhywfh, nityesvara-sadhanat \ atra cha Isvarasya prati- 
shidhyamanatvat \ na cha atrapi vyavakarika-paramdrthika- 
bhedena sesvara-nirisvara-vadayor awrodho 'stu sesvara-vddasya 
updsand-paratva-sambhavdd iti vdchyam \ vinigamakdbMvdt | 
Isvaro hi durjUeya iti nirlsoaratvam apt loka-vyavahdra-siddham 
aisvaryya-vairagydya anuvaditaHi sakyate dtmanali sagunatvam 
iva | na tit kvdpi srutydddv isvarah sphutam pratishidhyate yena 



218 APPENDIX 

sesvara-vddasyaiva vydvakdrikatvam avadkaryeta iti \ atra uch- 
yate | atrdpi vydvakdrika-pdramdrthika-bhavo bhavati \ ' asat- 
yam apratishtham te jay ad d/acr anlsvaram' \ ityddi-sastrair 
nirisvara-vadasya ninditatvat \ asminn eva sdstre vydvahdrik- 
asyaiva pratishedhasya aisvaryya-vairdgyddy-artham anuvddatv- 
auchitydt \ yadi hi laukdyatika-matdnusdrena nityaisvaryyam 
na pratiskidkyeta tadd paripurna-nitya-nirdoshai'svaryya-dar'sa- 
nena tatra chittdvesato vivekdbkydsa-pratibandkah sydd iti sdn- 
kkydckdryydndm asayah \ sesvara-vddasya na hvdpi nindddikam 
asti yena updsanddi-paratayd tat sdstraih sankochyeta \ yat tu 
ndsti sdnkhya-samam jfidnam ndsti yoga-samam balam \ atra 
vah samsayo ma bhuj jfidnam sdnkkyam param smritam ' ityddi 
vdkyam tad-vivekdmse eva sdnkkya-jndnasya darsandntarebkya 
utkarsham pratipddayati na tv tsvara-pratishedwfnse 'pi \ tatkd 
Pardsarddy-akhila-sishta-samvdddd api sesvara-vadasyaiva para- 
mdrtkikatvam avadkdryate \ api cha ' Axapdda-pranlte cha 
kdndde sankkya-yogayoh \ tyajyali sruti-virudho 'msali srutyeka- 
saranair nribhih \ Jaiminiye cha Yaiydse virudhdmso na kas- 
chana \ srutyd veddrtka-vijfidne sruti-param gatau hi tau' \ iti 
Pardsaropapurdnddibkyo 'pi brahma-mimdmsdyd isvardmse 
balavattvam \ yathd \ ' nydya-tantrdiiy anekdni tais tair uktdni 
vddibkih \ hetv-dgama-saddekdrair yad yuktaffi tad updsyatdm' \ 
iti moxa-dharma-vdkydd api Parasarddy-akhila-sishta-vyavahd- 
rena brahma-mlmdmsd-nydya-vaiseshikddy-ukta isvara-sddkaka- 
nyaya eva grdhyo balavattvdt \ tatkd | ' Yam na pasyanti yogin- 
drdh sdnkhyd api mahesvaram \ anddi-nidkanam brahma tarn 
eva saranam vraja' | ityddi-kaurmddi-vdkyaili sdnkkydndm 
isvardjfbdnasyaiva ndrayanddind proktatvdehcha \ hificha brah- 
ma-mimdmsdyd isvarah eva mukhyo vishayah upakramddibhir 
avadkritah \ tatrdmse tasya bddhe sdstrasyaiva aprdmdnyam 
sydt | ' yat-parah sabdah sa sabddrthah' iti nydydt \ sdnkhya- 
sdstrasya tu purushdrtha-tat-sddhana-prakriti-puruska-vivekdv 
eva mukhyo vishayah \ iti isvara-pratishedhanisa-bddhe 'pi na 
aprdmdnyam \ ' Yat-parah sabdali sa sabddrthah' iti nydydt \ 
atali sdvakdsatayd sdnkkyam cm isvara-pratiskedkdmse durbalam 



APPENDIX., 219 

iti I na cha brahma-mlmamsdydm api Isvdra eva mukhyo vishayo 
na tu nityaisvaryam iti vaktuM sakyale \ ' smrily-anavakdsa- 
dosha-prasanga'-rupa-purva-paceasya anupapattyd nityaisvary- 
ya-visishtatvena eva brahma-mwidmsd-vishayatvdvadhdrandt \ 
brahma-sabdasya para-brahmany eva mukhyataya tu ' athatah 
para-braJima-jijna&a' iti na sutritam iti \ etena sankhya-virodhad 
brakma-yoga-darsanayoh karyyesvara-paratvam api na sankanl- 
yam \ prakriti-svatantrydpattya ' rachananupapattescha na 
anumanam' ityadi brahma-sutra-parampara-'nupapattescha \ 
tatha sa purveskdm api guruh kdlena anavachchhedad' iti 
yoga-sutra-tadiya-vyasa-bkdshyabhymn sphutami'sa-nityatavaga- 
machcha iti \ tasmdd abhyupagama-vdda-praudhi-vadadind eva 
sdnkhyasya vydvaharikesoara-pr'atishedha-paratayd brahna- 
mlmdinsa-yo'gdbhya'ffi saha na virodhah \ abhyupagama-vadascka 
sastre drishtah \ yathd Yishnu-purane (i. 17, 54) | ' Me bhinna- 
drisam, daitya vikalpah kathitd mayd \ kritvd ' bAyupagamaM 
tatra sanxepah sruyatam mama ' \ iti \ astn va papinarn jfiana- 
pratibandkartkam astika-darsaneshv apy ainsatah sruti-rvirud- 
dhdrtha-vyavastkapanam teshu teshv arnseshv aprdmanyancha \ 
sruti-smrity-aviruddkesha tu mukkya-vishayeshu prdmdnyam asty 
eva | ata eva Padma-purdne brahma-yoga-dar'sandtiriktandih 
darsandndm ninda 'py upapadyate \ Yathd tatra Pdrvatim 
prati Isvara-vdkyam | ' srinu devi pravaxydmi tdmasdni yathd- 
kramam \ yeskdih sravand-mdtrena pdtityam jfidnindm api \ pra- 
tkamam hi mayaioohtam saivam Pdsupatddikam \ machchhakty- 
dvesitair vipraih samproktdni tatah param \ Kanddena tu sam- 
proktam sastrain vaiseshikam mahat \ Gautamena tatha nyayam 
sdnkhyam tu Kapilena vai \ dvijanmana Jaiminind purvam veda- 
maydrthatah \ niriscarena vddena kritam sdstram mahattaram \ 
Dkishanena tathd proktam charvakam ati-garhitam \ daitydndm 
ndsandrthdya Vishnund Buddha-rupind \ bauddha-sdstram asat 
proktam nagna-nila-patddikam \ mayd-vddam asach-ckhdstram 
prachchhannam bauddham eva cha \ mayaiva kathitam devi kalau 
brahmana-rupiiid. \ apdrtkam sruti-vdkydndm darsayat loka- 
garhitam \ karma-svarUpa-tyajyatvam atra cha pratipddyate \ 



220 APPENDIX, 

sarva-harma-paribhram'sdd naishkarmyarn tatra chochyate \ pa- 
rdtma-jivayor aikyam maya 'tra pratipddyate \ brahmano 'sya 
paraffi rupam nirgunam darsitam maya \ sarvasya jagato py 
asya ndsandrtham kalau yuge \ veddrthavad mahdsdstram maya- 
vadam avaidikam \ mayaiva kathitam devi jagatd-m ndsa-kara- 
ndd' | iti | adhikam tu brahma-mimamsd-bhashye prapafichitam 
asmabhir iti \ tasmdd astika-sastrasya na kasyapy apramanyam 
virodho va sva-sva-vishayeshu sarvesham abadhad avirodhachcha 
iti | nanv eoam purusha-bahutvaffise 'py asya sdstrasya abhyu- 
pagama-vadatvam sydt \ na sydt \ avirodhdt \ brakma-mimain- 
sdydm apy ' aMso ndnd-vyapadesdd' ityddi sutra-jdtair jlvdtma- 
bahutvasyaiva nirnaydt \ sdnkhya-siddha-purushdndm atmatvam 
tu brakma-mlmdmsayd bddhyate eoa \ ' dtmd iti tupayanti ' iti tat- 
sutreiia paramdtmana eva paramdrtha-bhumdv dtmatvdvadhd- 
randt \ tathdpi cha sdnkhyasya na apramanyam \ vydvakdri- 
kdtmano jivasya itara-viveka-jfidnasya moxa-sddhanatve vivaxi- 
tdrthe bddkdbhdvdt \ etena sruti-smriti-prasiddkayor nandtmai- 
kdtmatvayor vydvahdrika-pdramdrthika-bhedena avirodkah \ 

" Be it so : let there be here no discrepancy with the Nyaya 
and Vaiseshika. But it will be said that the Sankhya is really 
opposed to the Brahma-mimansa (the Vedanta) and the Yoga 
[of Patanjali] ; since both of these systems assert an eternal 
Isvara (God), while the Sankhya denies such an Is'vara. And 
it must not be said (the same persons urge) that here also 
[as in the former case of the Nyaya and Vaiseshika], owing 
to the distinction between practical [or conventional, or regu- 
lative] and essential truths, there may be no [real] con- 
trariety between the theistic and the atheistic theories, in- 
asmuch as it appears that the theistic theory has a view 
to devotion [and may therefore have nothing more tban a 
practical end in view] ; — you are not, it will be said, to assert 
this, as there is nothing to lead to this conclusion [or, dis- 
tinction]. For as Is'vara is difficult to be known, the atheistic 
theory also, which is founded on popular opinion, may, indeed, 
be maintained for the purpose of inspiring indifference to 



APPENDIX. 221 

the divine majesty, (just as it is [erroneously] asserted that 
soul has [the three] qualities) ; but neither the Veda, nor any 
other sastra contains a distinct denial of an Isvara, by which 
the merely practical [or conventional] character of the theistic 
theory could be shewn. [Consequently the theistic theory is not 
a mere conventional one, but true, and the contradiction be- 
tween the atheistic Sankhya and the theistic systems is real 
and irreconcileable]. 

To this we reply : in this case also the distinction of prac- 
tical and essential truths holds. For the atheistic theory is 
censured by such texts as the following : ' They declare a 
world without an Isvara to be false and baseless.' Now it was 
proper that in this system (the Sankhya), the merely prac- 
tical [or conventional] denial [of Isvara] should be inculcated 
for the purpose of inspiring indifference to the divine majesty, 
and so forth. Because the idea of the author of the Sankhya 
was this, that if the existence of an eternal Isvara were not 
denied, in conformity with the doctrine of the Laukayatikas, 
men would be prevented by the contemplation of a perfect, 
eternal, and faultless godhead, and by fixing their hearts upon 
it, from studying to discriminate [between spirit and matter]. 
But no censure on the theistic theory is to be found in any 
religious work, whereby [the scope of] that system might be 
restricted, as having devotion, etc., in view, as its only end. And 
as regards such texts as the following : — ' There is no knowledge 
like the Sankhya, no power like the Yoga ; doubt not of this, 
the knowledge of the Sankhya is considered to be the highest,' 
they [are to be understood as] proving the superiority of the 
Sankhya doctrine over other systems, not in respect of its 
atheism, but only of its discrimination [between different prin- 
ciples]. In the same way it is established by the colloquy 
of Parasara, and all other well-instructed persons, that the 
theistic theory is that which represents the essential truth. 
Further, such texts as the following of the Paras'ara Upa- 
purana, and other works, shew the strength of the Brahma- 



222 



APPENDIX. 



mlmansa on the side of its theism, viz., ' In the systems of 
Axapada (Gotama) and Kanada, and in the Sankhya and Yoga, 
that part which is opposed to the Veda should be rejected by 
all persons who regard the Veda as the sole authority. In the 
systems of Jaimini and Vyasa (the Vedanta) there is no portion 
contrary to the Veda, since both these sages, by [adhering to] 
the Veda [itself], have obtained a perfect comprehension of 
its true meaning.' In the same way it results from this text 
of the Moxa-dharma (a part of the Santi-parva of the Maha- 
bharata), viz. : ' Many systems of reasoning have been pro- 
mulgated by different authors ; [in these] whatever is established 
on grounds of reason, of scripture, and of approved custom, 
is to be respected ; ' [from this text also, I say, it results] that 
the theory, — declared in the Brahma-mlmansa, the Nyaya, the 
Vaiseshika, etc., in consonance with the tradition of Parasara 
and all other well-instructed men, — which asserts an Isvara, is 
alone to be received, in consequence of its strength ; and [it is] 
also [to be received] because in such passages as this of the 
Kaurma-purana, viz,, — 'Take refuge with that Mahesvara, that 
Brahma without beginning or end, whom the most eminent 
Yogis, and the Sankhyas do not behold' — Narayana (Vishnu) 
asserts that the Sankhyas are ignorant of Isvara. 

Moreover, Isvara is determined to be the principal subject of 
the Brahma-mlmansa by the introductory statement, etc., of that 
system. If it were open to objection on that side [i.e., on the side 
of its principal subject], the entire system would be without 
authority. For it is a rule of logic that ' the sense of a word 
is that which it is intended to denote.' But the principal sub- 
jects of the Sankhya are — (1) the grand object of human pur- 
suit, and — (2) the distinction between nature (prakriti) and 
spirit (puruska), which is the instrument of attaining that 
grand object. Thus the Sankhya does not lose its authority, 
even though it be erroneous in so far as it denies an Isvara. 
For it is a rule of logic that 'the sense of a word is that 
which it is intended to denote.' Hence, from its being an 



APPENDIX. 223 

essential point, the Sankhya is weak in so far as it denies an 
Isvara. 

Nor can it be alleged that it is Is'vara only, and not the eternity 
of his existence, that is the principal subject of the Brahma- 
mimansa ; since, through the disproof of the objection (purva- 
paxa) that the theistic theory ' is chargeable with the defect 
of rendering the smriti inapplicable,' 13 it is ascertained that the 
assertion of an eternal Isvara is the main object of the Brahma- 
mimansa. But as the word Brahma is principally employed 
to denote the supreme Brahma, the first aphorism of the 
Brahma-mimansa does not run thus, ' Now follows the enquiry 
regarding the supreme Brahma ; ' but thus, ' Now follows the 
enquiry regarding Brahma.' Hence we are not to surmise 
that, from their [otherwise] contradicting the Sankhya, the 
Brahma-mimansa and Yoga systems must aim at establishing 
[not an eternal Deity] but a [secondary] Isvara, who is merely 
an effect. For this is disproved (1) by the Brahma Sutra (ii. 
2, 1) which (founding on the objection that exists to the inde- 
pendent action of Pradhana or nature) concludes that ' an 
unintelligent cause of the world cannot be inferred, as it is 
not conceivable that it should have been framed by such a 

13 I extract here the entire aphorism referred to (Brahma Sutras, ii. 1, 1), with a 
few lines of S'ankara's commentary : Smrity-anavahasa-dosha-prasanga iti chet \ na | 
anya-smrity-anavakasa-dosha-prasangat' j| . . . . tatra prathmnam tavat smriti-viro- 
dham itpanyasya pariharati \ yad ulctam Brahma eva sarvajnam. jagatah Jcaranatn iti 

tad ayuhtam \ Jcutah \ smrity-ancwalcasa-dosha-prasangat | tasya samadhih \ 

'na | anya-smrity-anamhasa-dosha-prasangad' iti \ yadi smrity-anavakasa-dosha- 
prasangena Isvara-Jcarana-vadah oxipyeta evam apy anya Isvara-harana-vadinyah 
smritayo ' 'navaMsa prasajyeran \ (Sutra) " ' If it be said that [this theory] is [wrong, 
as it is] chargeable with the defect of rendering the smriti inapplicable [or contradic- 
ting the smriti}, [I answer] No, for [the other theory] would be chargeable with the 
defect of rendering other texts of the smriti inapplicable.' (Comment) Here, he first 
of all proposes and removes the objection of contrariety to the smriti. ' It is wrong,' 
says the objector, 'to assert that Brahma is the omniscient cause of the world." 
Why ? ' Because the fault of making the smriti inapplicable attaches [to this theory]. 
.. . . The difficulty is removed in this way : ' No, for [the other theory] would be 
chargeable with the defect of rendering other texts of the smriti inapplicable.' 
Even if the theory of divine causality were rejected on the ground of rendering the 
smriti inapplicable, still [the antagonistic theory] would be open to the objection of 
rendering inapplicable those other texts of the smriti which assert a divine causality," 



224 



APPENDIX. 



cause,' and by the series of the following sutras ; and (2) by the 
fact that the eternity of God is clearly understood from the 
Yoga aphorism [i. 26], viz., ' He is also the instructor of the 
ancients, as he is not circumscribed by time,' as well as from 
the commentary of Vyasa thereon. 14 Thus [if we take into 
account the difference between] the exoteric and esoteric methods 
of discussion, 15 [we shall find that] as the Sankhya has in view 
a [merely] practical denial of an Is'vara, it does not con- 
tradict the Brahma-mimansa or the Yoga. The exoteric method 
[or method of approach, to which allusion has been made] is 
referred to in the Sastra. Thus it is said in the Vishnu Purana 
[i. 17, 54, Wilson, p. 132], ' These notions, Daityas, which I have 
described, are the mistakes of persons who look on the Deity 
as distinct from themselves. Hear now briefly from me [the 
views of those who] have made an approach [ ? to the truth].' 

" Or let it be [supposed] that even theistic systems, with the 
view of preventing sinners from attaining knowledge, lay down 
doctrines which are partially opposed to the Veda ; and that in 
those particular portions they are not authoritative. Still, in 
their principal contents, which are consonant to the sruti and 
the smriti, they possess authority. Accordingly, in the Padma 
Purana we find a censure passed even upon the several philoso- 
phical systems (darsanas), with the exception of the Brahma 
(the Vedanta) and the Yoga. For in that work Is'vara (Maha- 
deva) says to ParvatT, ' Listen, goddess, while I declare to you 
the tamasa works (the works characterised by tamos, or the 
quality of darkness) in order; works by the mere hearing of 

14 I quote the commentary of Bhoja-raja on this Sutra, as given by Dr. Ballantyne 
(Aphorisms of the Toga, part first, p. 32) : Purvesham | adyanam Srahmadinam apt 
sa gurur upadeshta yatah sa /catena anavachchhidyate anaditvat j tesham picnar 
adimattvad asti kalena avachchhedah | " Of the ancients, that is, of the earliest 
[beings], Brahma and the rest, he is the guru, i.e., the instructor, because He, as 
having no beginning, is not circumscribed by time ; while they, on the other hand, 
having had a beginning, are circumscribed by time." 

16 I suppose from the context that the expressions abhyupagama-vada, "the mode 
of discussion which approaches the truth," and praudhi-vada, " the mode of dis- 
cussion suited to advanced knowledge," answer in some measure to our idea of exoteric 
and esoteric systems respectively. 



APPENDIX. 225 

which even wise men become fallen. First of all, the Saiva 
systems, called Pas'upata, etc., were delivered by myself. Then 
the following were uttered by Brahmans penetrated by my 
power, viz. (2), the great Vaiseshika system of which Kanada 
was the author, and (3) the Nyaya and (4) Sankhya, which were 
promulgated by Gotama and Kapila respectively. Then (5) 
the great system, the Purva-[mimansa] was composed by the 
Brahman Jaimini from Vedic materials, but on atheistic prin- 
ciples. So too (6) the abominable Charvaka doctrine was 
declared by Dhishana, 16 while Vishnu, in the form of Buddha, 
with a view to the destruction of the Daityas, 16 promulgated (7) 
the false system of the Bauddhas, who go about naked, or wear 
blue garments. I myself, goddess, assuming the form of a 
Brahman, uttered in the Kali age, the untrue theory of maya, 
[illusion, the more modern form of the Vedanta], which is 
covert Buddhism, which imputes a perverted and generally cen- 
sured signification to the words of the Veda, and inculcates the 
abandonment of ceremonial works, and an inactivity consequent 
on such cessation. In that system I propound the identity of 
the supreme and the embodied soul, and show that the highest 
form of Brahma is that in which he is devoid of the [three] 
qualities. It was I myself, goddess, by whom this great sastra, 
which, composed of Vedic materials and inculcating the theory 
of illusion, is yet un-Vedic, was declared in the Eali age for the 
destruction of this entire universe.' We have entered into fuller 
explanations on this subject in the Brahma-mimansa-bhashya. 
There is, therefore, no want of' authority, nor any contradiction, 
in any theistic system, for they are all incapable of refutation in 
their own especial subjects, and are not mutually discrepant. 
Does, then, this system (the Sankhya) lay down a merely 
exoteric theory in respect of the multitude of souls also? It 
does not. For in the Brahma-mlmansa also it is determined 
by such kinds of texts as the following (Brahma Sutras, ii. 

15 A name of Vrihaspati, according to Wilson's dictionary. 

16 See Wilson's Vishnu Parana, pp. 334 ff. 

15 



226 



APPENDIX. 



3, 43), viz., 'the embodied spirit is a part of the supreme 
soul, from the variety of appellations,' that there iB a multi- 
tude of embodied spirits. But it is denied by the Brahma- 
mimansa that the spirits (purusha) asserted by the Sankhya 
have the character of Soul; for it is determined by the 
Brahma Sutra (iv. 1, 3), 'they approach Him as one with 
themselves,' 17 that on the ground of transcendental truth, the 
supreme Soul alone has the character of Soul. But, neverthe- 
less, the Sankhya is not unauthoritative ; for as the other 
discriminative knowledge possessed by the embodied spirit in 
its worldly condition is instrumental to final liberation, this 
system is not erroneous in the particular subject matter which it 
aims at propounding. In this-way it results from the distinction 
of practical and real which exists between the two theories (made 
known by the sruti (Veda) and smriti), of a multitude of souls, 
and the unity of all soul, that [the Sankhya] is not contrary 
[to the Vedanta]." 

Note IX. on Page 112, Line 22. 

Sayana's Introduction to" R. V. vol i. p. 23.— Manushya- 
vrittdnta-pratipadakd richo nardsamsyah \ " The ndrasansls are 
verses which set forth the histories of men." 

If these ndrasansls were richaTi, verses of the hymns, and 
if, according to Sayana's definition, their object was to record 
events in human history, it follows that these verses must have 
referred to non-eternal objects. Either therefore Sayana's 
definition must be wrong, or the author of the Mlmansa 
Suras must have made a mistake in asserting that the hymns 
contain no reference to events which have taken place in 
time. 

17 The original Sutra runs thus : Atma iti tu wpagachchhwnti grahaytmti cha \ 
" They approach Him as one with themselves, and [certain texts] cause them to 
receive Him as one with themselves." This refers to certain texts which S'ankara 
adduces from one of the Upanishads, apparently. 



APPENDIX. 227 



Note X. on Page 126, Line 15. 

The expression here employed, pitrina/ncha manmabhih, is 
repeated in R. V. x. 57, 3 (= Vaj. Sank 3, 53) : Mono nu a 
huvamahe ndrasamsena somena pitnnaficha manmabhili \ " We 
invoke his spirit with soma accompanied by human praises, and 
by the hymns [or prayers] of the fathers." 

The Vaj. San. Sanhita reads stomena, " hymn," instead of 
somena. The commentator there explains ndrasamsena stotrena 
as a " hymn in which men are praised," and pitrinaftcha man- 
mabhili as hymns " in which the fathers are reverenced" {pitaro 
yaih stotrair many ante te manmanas tair ityadi). 

Note XL on Page 148, ith Line from the bottom. 

I should have recalled attention here to the verse of the 
Purusha Sukta, E. V. x. 90, 9, quoted in p. 10, and also in 
Part First, pp. 7 and 8, in which the Rik and Sama verses, the 
metres, and the Yajush are said to have sprung from the great 
mystical victim Purusha. 

We have also seen that in the passage of the Atharva-veda 
cited at the top of p. 11, two of the Vedas are said to have 
sprung from Time. The same Veda, as quoted by Prof. Gold- 
stiicker in the Preface to his Manava-kalpa-sutra, p. 70, assigns 
yet another origin to the Vedas. Ath. V. xi. 7, 24 : Richah 
samani chhandamsi purafiam yajusha sahd \ uchchkishtaj jajfdre 
ityadi \ "The Rik and Sama verses, the metres, the Purana, 
with the Yajus, sprang from the remainder of the sacrifice!' 

Notb XII. on Page 149, 3rd Line from the foot. 

It appears from Prof. Benfey's note on S. V. ii. 294 (= R. V. 
ix. 96, 6, quoted in p. 163), that the scholiast on that passage 
also makes devandm = ritvijdm, " priests." 



228 



APPENDIX. 



Note XIII. on Page 176, Line 12. 

In E. V. x. 57, 2, we find the same word tantu occurring : 
Yo yqjfiasya prasadhanas tantur deveshu dtatas tarn dhutaih 
nakmahi \ " May we obtain [?] him [Agni ?] whom we have 
invoked, who is the fulfiller of sacrifice, who is the thread 
stretched to the gods." 

Prof. Eoth quotes under the word tantu the following text 
from the Taittiriya Brahmana, ii. 4, 2, 6 : A tantum Agnir 
divyatn, tatdna \ tvaih nas tantur uta setur Agne team panthd 
bhavasi deoa-ydnah | "Agni has stretched the divine thread. 
Thou, Agni, art our thread and bridge ; thou art the path lead- 
ing to the gods." 



Additional Note, on Page 5, Line 14, and Page 213, Line 1, 
of the Appendix. 

The following passages from Patanjali's Mahabhashya, and 
from the commentaries of Kaiyyata and Nagojibhatta, are ex- 
tracted from fuller quotations given by Prof. Goldstiicker in 
pp. 147, 148, of the very learned Preface to his Manava-kalpa- 
sutra. 

Patanjali. — Nanu cha uktafh ' na hi chhandamsi kriyante nit- 
yani chhandainsi' iti \ yadyapy artho nityah \ yd tv asau var- 
nanupurvi sa anityd tad-bheddch-cha etad bhavati Kdthakaih 
Kdldpakam Maudakam Paippalddakam itygidi . . . | Kaiyyata. — 
' Nitydni' iti \ karttur asmarandt teshdm iti bhdvah \ 'yd tv 
asdv' iti \ mahdpralayddishu varndnupurm-vind'se punar utpadya 
rishayah satikskdrdtisaydd veddrthatii, smritvd sabda-rachand 
vidadhati ity arthak \ ' tad-bheddd' iti \ dnupurvl-bheddd ity 
arthah \ tatascha Kathddayo veddnupurvydh harttdrah eva 
ityddi | Nagojibhatta. — Afhsena vedasya nityatvaffi, svikritya 
afksena anityatvam aha ' yadyapy arthah ' iti \ anena vedatvaM 



APPENDIX. 229 

sabddrthobhaya-vrittidhvanitvam \ nanu ' dhata yatha purvam 
akalpayad' ityddi-sruti-balena anupurvi api sa eva iti navya- 
purva-mimdinsd-siddhantdt sa nityd iti ayuktam ata aha ' mahd- 
pralayadishv' iti \ anupurvyas tat-tat-xana-ghatitatveqa anit- 
yatvam iti bhavah iti kechit \ tanna \ ' yadyapy artko nityah' 
ityddi-vdkya-'sesha-mrodhdt \ arthasydpi jyotishtomdder anityat- 
vat | pravahavichchhedena nityatva-fh tu ubhayor api tasmad 
manvantara-bhedena anupurvi bhinna eva ' prati-manvanta- 
raUckaisM srutir any a vidhlyate' ity ukter ity anye \pare tu \ 
artko nityah' ity atra kritakatva-virodhy-anityatvasya eva 
abhyupagamali purva-paxind tadrisa-nityatvasya eva chhandassu 
ukteli | evaficha artha-sabdena atra Isvarah \ mukhyataya tasya 
eva sarva-veda-tatparyya-vishayatvat \ ' vedaischa sarvair aham 
eva vedyah' iti Gltokter ity dhuh \ varndnupurvydh anityatve 
mdnain aha ' tad-bkeddchcha' iti \ anityatva-vyapya-bhedena 
tat-siddhili \ bhedo 'tra ndnatvam \ Isvare tu na ndndtvam \ 
bhede manaih vyavahdram aha \ ' Kdthaka ' ityddi \ arthaikye 
'py dnupurvl-bheddd eva Kdthaka-kdldpdkddi-vyavahdrah iti 
bhavah | atra anupurvi anityd ity ukteh paddni tany eva iti 
dhvanitvaih tad aha tatascha Kathddayali ityddi \ 

As Prof. Goldstiicker has only given (in p. 146 of his Preface) 
a translation of the above extract from Patanjali, and has left 
the passages from Kaiyyata and Nagojibhatta untranslated, I 
shall give his version of the first, and my own rendering of the 
two last. 

Patanjali. — " Is it not said, however, that ' the Vedas are not 
made, but that they are permanent {i.e., eternal) V (Quite so); 
yet, though their sense is permanent, the order of their letters 
has not always remained the same ; and it is through the dif- 
ference in this latter respect that we may speak of the versions 
of the Kathas, Kalapas, Mudakas, Pippaladakas, and so on." 
Kaiyyata on Patanjali. — " ' Eternal ; ' by this word he means 
that they are so, because no maker of them is remembered. By 
the words, ' the order of their letters,' etc., it is meant that, the 
order of the letters being destroyed in the great dissolutions of 



230 



APPENDIX. 



the universe, etc., the rishi3, when they are again produced, 
recollecting, through their eminent science, the sense of the 
Veda, arrange the order of the words. By the phrase, ' through 
the difference of this,' is meant the difference of order. Conse- 
quently, Katha and the other sages [to whom allusion was made] 
are the authors of the order of the Veda." Nagojibhatta on 
Patanjali and Kaiyyata. — " Admitting in part the eternity of the 
Veda, he declares in the words, ' though the sense is eternal,' etc., 
that it is also in part not eternal. By this clause, vedicity, or the 
essence of the Veda, is [declared to consist in] being sound com- 
posed of both its constituents, viz., words and their meanings. 
But is not the order eternal, since it is a settled doctrine, 
both of the new and the elder Mimansakas, 18 on the strength 
of such Vedic texts as this, ' the creator made them as before,' 
etc., that the order also is the very same 1 No ; this is incor- 
rect, and in consequence, he says, ' in the great dissolutions,' 
etc. Some say the meaning of this is, that the order is not 
eternal, inasmuch as it exists in particular [or successive] 
moments. But this is wrong, because it is opposed to the rest 
of the sentence, viz., the words, ' though their sense is eternal,' 
etc., and because the objects signified also, such as the jyotish- 
toma sacrifice, are not eternal. Others say that both the sense 
and the order of the words are eternal [or permanent], owing 
to the continuity of the tradition ; and that consequently it is 
in different manvantaras that the order of the words is diffe- 
rent, according to the text, 'in every manvantara this sruti 
(Veda) is made different.' Others again think that in the 
words, ' the sense is eternal,' etc., an assertion is made by 
an objector of a non-eternity opposed to [mere] production, 
since it is only such a [qualified] eternity [or permanence] 
that is mentioned in the Veda ; and that thus the word ' sense,' 
or ' object ' (arthali), here refers to Is'vara, because he is the 
principal object which is had in view in the whole of the 
Veda, according to the words of the Bhagavad-gita (xv. 15), 

18 This means, I suppose, Vedantins and Purva Mimansakas, 



APPENDIX. 231 

' It is I whom all the Vedas seek to know.' He next states 
the proof of the assertion that the order of the letters is not 
eternal, in the words, ' through the difference of this,' etc. 
The difference in the order is proved by the difference in the 
things included under the category of non-eternity. Difference 
here means variety. But in Is'vara (God), there is no variety. 
He declares ordinary practice to be the. proof of difference, in 
the words ' Kathaka,' etc., which mean that, though the sense 
is the same, we use the distinctions of Kathaka, Kalapaka, etc., 
in consequence of the difference of order. Here by saying that 
the order is not eternal, it is meant that the words are the same, 
and thus the [full] character [of the Veda], as sound [consisting 
both of words and their meanings, is preserved?]. And this is 
what is asserted in the words, 'consequently Katha and the 
other sages,' etc." 

After quoting these passages at greater length than I have 
given them, Prof. Goldstiicker goes on to remark in his note : 
" I have quoted the full gloss of the three principal commen- 
tators, on this important Sutra [of Panini] and its Varttikas, 
because it is of considerable interest in many respects. . . s . We 
see Kaiyyata and Nagojibhatta writhing under the difficulty of 
reconciling the eternity of the Veda with the differences of its 
various versions, which, nevertheless, maintain an equal claim 
to infallibility. Patanjali makes rather short work of this much 
vexed question ; and unless it be allowed here to render his 
expression varna (which means 'letter'), 'word,' it is barely 
possible even to understand how he can save consistently the 
eternity or permanence of the ' sense ' of the Veda. That the 
modern Mlmansists maintain not only the ' eternity of the 
sense,' but also the 'permanence of the text,' which is tanta- 
mount to the exclusive right of one single version, we learn, 
amongst others, from Nagojibatta. But as such a doctrine has 
its obvious dangers, it is not shared in by the old Mlmansists, 
nor by Nagoji, as he tells us himself. He and Kaiyyata inform 
us therefore that amongst other theories, there is one, according 



232 APPENDIX. 

to which the order of the letters (or rather words) in the Vaidik 
texts got lost in the several Pralayas or destructions of the 
worlds ; and since each Manwantara had its own revelation, 
which differed only in the expression, not in the sense of the 
Vaidik texts, the various versions known to these commentators 
represent these successive revelations, which were 'remem- 
bered,' through their ' excessive accomplishments,' by the Eishis, 
who in this manner produced, or rather reproduced, the texts cur- 
rent in their time, under the name of the versions of the Kathas, 
Kalapas, and so on. In this way each version had an equal 
claim to sanctity. There is a very interesting discussion on the 
same subject by Kumarila, in his Mlmansa-varttika (i. 3, 10)." 



INDEX. 



A. 

Abhyupagama-vada, 224 

Accentuation, 18 

Acharyya, 202 

Achvuta, 26 

Aditi, 122, 140, 156 

Adityas, 70, 130, 140 

Adhoxaja, 28 

Adhvaryu, 3, 35, 37 f. 

Adhvaryava (Yajur) Veda, 
110 

Adrishta, 83, 216 

Agastya, 143 

Agni, 18,28,61, 117,120, 
122, 123, 125, 126-129 
passim, 132-140 passim, 
144, 145, 147, 149, 152, 
164, 170, 173, 174, 176, 
180, 227 

Agni a source of inspira- 
tion, 156 ff. 

Agnihotra, 55 

Ahankara, 102 

Aila (Puriiravas), 29 

Air, 8 ff., 43 

Aitareya Br., 4 

Alcinous, 166 

Ancients, 95 

Anga, 35 

Angis, 18 

Angiras, 18, 117, 120, 126, 

142, 147, 188 
Angirases, 141 
Anukramanis, 89, 172 
Anushtubh, 7, 176 
Anuvyakhyanas, 105 
Apantaratamas, 23 
Apastamba, 44, 91 
Apaurusheyatva, 43 
Apollo, 165 ff. 
Apsaras, 104, 143 
Apta, 209 f. 
Aranyakas, 1, 15 



Argives, 167 

Arjuna, 186 

Arka, 120^- 

Arthavadas, 70, 95 

Aryaman, 164 

Asuri, 99 

As'maka, 35 

Asridh, 122 

Astronomy, 19 

Asura, 156 

Asuras, 31, 174 

As'valayana, 91 

Asfvattha, 28 

Asvins, 117, 124, 129, 

132 f., 138, 139, 140 
Atiratra, 7 
Ativyapti, 204 
Atharvan, priest, 37 
Atharvan, sage, 18, 117, 

120, 157, 182 
Atharvangirases, 8, 27, 104 
Atharva Paris'ishtas, 36 f. 
Atharvanas, 37 
Atharva-veda quoted, 10, 

120, 155, 158, 159, 176, 

227 
Atri, 117, 119, 173, 188 
Atris, 139, 173 
Auddalaki, 60 
Aufrecht, Cat. of Bodl. 

Sans. MSS., 17, 22, 33 
Aupamanyava, 111 
Axapada (Gotama), 222 
Ayasya, 136 
Ayatayama, 33 
Ayur-veda, 80, 215 

B. 

Babara, 60, 61, 63, 112 
Badarayana, 47, 50, 51, 65 
Bahvrichas, 27, 35, 37 
Ballantyne's Aphorisms of 
the Mimansa, 52 ff. 



Ballantyne's Aphorisms of 
theNyaya, 74 ff, 216 f. 

Aphorisms of 

the Sankhya, 81 

Aphorisms of 



the Vedanta, 50, 52 

Aphorisms of 



the Yoga, 223 

Christianity 



contrasted with Hindu 
Philosophy, 72,112,216 
- Mahabhashya, 



Siddhanta- 



72, 155 



muktavali, 216 

Synopsis of 

Science, 103 

— Tarka-sangra- 



ha, 209 
Banerjea, Bev. Prof. K. 

M., 185, 207, 208, 209, 

210, 216 
Bauddhas, 93, 203, 210, 

225 
Bandhayana, 91 
Benfey, Sama-veda, 71, 118, 

119, 127, 128, 134, 135, 

137, 145, 153, 161, 163, 

174, 227 
Bhaga, 122 
Bhagavad-gita, 100, 185, 

230 
Bhagavata-purana, 7, 24, 

27,99, 100, 107, 188 f. 
Bharadvaja, 18 
Bharadvajas, 118 
Bharatas, 173 
BharatI, 151, 152, 155 
Bhargava, 37 
Bhasha-parichcheda, 216 
Bhoja-raja, 224 
Bhur, 3, 4, 6, 10, 72 
Bhuvah, 3, 4, 6, 10 
Bhrigu, 26, 117, 120, 188 
Bhrigus,38,129, 130, 132f. 
Bird, 156 



234 



INDEX. 



Blackie, on the Theology 

of Homer, 169 
Boehtlingk and Roth, Sans- 
krit Dictionary, 49, 120, 

136, 138, 146, 158, 159, 

227 
Brahma, 13, 18, 25, 26, 

66, 97, 106, 180, 181, 

182, 187, 188, 223 
Brahma, 6, 8, 9, 16, 17, 

18, 22, 23, 31, 144, 162, 

182 f., 188, 213. 
Brahma - mimansa, 217, 

220 ff. 
Brahma-mTmansa-bhashya, 

225 
Brahman (prayer), 121, 

144 

(priest), 37 f. 

Brahmans, 23, 29, 65 
Brahmanas, 1, 2, 39, 43 ff., 

104 f., 113 
Brahmanaspati, 130, 145, 

149, 158, 160 
Brahmarata, 32, 34 
Brahmarshis, 26 
Brahma Sutras, 45, 50, 51, 

52, 65, 94 ff., 97, 180, 

207, 213, 223, 225 
Brahma-vadis, 102 
Brahma-veda, 37 
Brahma- vidya, 18 
Brahma - vaivartta - purana, 

17 
Brahmes'a, 27 
Brihaspati, see Vrihaspati 
Brihati metre, 176 
Buddha, 108, 225 



C. 

Calchas, 168 
Caste, 28, 29 
Chaitra, 200 
Chaitya, 12 
Chandala, 187 
CharanavyQha, 39 
Charana, 33, 35 
Charakas, 35 f. 
Charakacharyya, 35 f. 
Charakadhvaryus, 33, 35 f. 
Charvakas, 12, 45, 225 
Chhandas, 106 
Chhandoga, 17 
Chhandogas, 35, 37 f. 
Chhandogya Brahmana, 92 
Chhandogya Upanishad, 

3 ff., 106 f., 182 f., 

186f. 



Colebrooke, Miscellaneous 
Essays, 45, 47, 51, 62, 
57, 66, 72, 83, 89, 100, 
156, 161, 176, 178, 186, 
209, 211 

Commentary, 19 

Commentaries on the 
Vedas, 2 

on the Dar- 



s'anas, 2 
Commentators, 39 

D. 

Dadhyanch, 117, 120 
Daityas, 225 / 
Danti, 161 
Darsanas, 2, 103 
Daxa, 122, 188 
Demodocus, 166 f. 
Devas, 119, 149, 160, 227 
Devadatta, 70 
Dhi, 121 
Dhishana, 225 
Dhishana, 121, 151, 162, 

153, 175 
Dhiti, 121 
Dirghas'rut, 116 
Dissolution of the Universe, 

213 
Dushkrita, 35 
Dvaipayana, 24 
Dvapara age, 20, 21, 22, 26 

E. 

Egyptians, 96 

Ekavimsa, 7 

Elemental origin of the 

Vedas, 3 ff. 
Euripides, 162 

G. 

Ganambika, 161 
Gandharva, 156, 158 f. 
Gandharvas, 27 ff. 
Ganes'a, 161 
Gauri, 161 
Gaya, 140 
Gayatra, 7 

Gayatri, 6, 7, 8, 159, 161, 
173, 176 

, varieties of, 161 

-, mother of the 



Vedas, 9 
Giris'a, 188 
Gods, 66, 69 f. 
Gaurava, 111 



Gir, 121 

Goldstucker's Dictionary, 
120 

Manava- 



kalpa-sutra, 227, 228 ff. 
Gotama, author of Nyaya 

SutraB, 73 ff., 216, 222 
Gotama, rishi, 131 
Gotamas, 129, 134, 138, 

139 
Grammar, 19, 105 
Grecian bards, 165 ff. 
Gritsamadas, 129, 131 
Grote's History of Greece, 

165, 167, 168 f. 
Gunas, 102 
Guru, 91, 199 

H. 

Hall, Sankhya Prav. Bh., 

96, 100 
Hansa, 29 
Hanta, 150 
Hari, 28, 189 
Haridasa Bhattacharyya, 

211 
Harivans'a quoted, 8, 9, 10 
Helicon, 165 
Hellas, 168 
Herodotus, 95, 108 
Hesiod, 95, 165 ff. 
Hiranyagarbha, 9, 183 
Homer, 165 ff. 
HotrS, 151 
Hotri, 3 
Hymns, see Mantras 



I. 

Inferior science, 18 

Ila, 151, 152, 155 

Iiiad, 166, 168, 169 

Ilion, 168 

Indra, 29, 70, 117, 118, 
120, 123-131 passim, 
133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 
139, 140, 141, 147, 148, 
152, 156, 163, 170, 173, 
174, 180, 181, 189 
-, sceptical doubts re- 



garding, 151 

-, source of inspira- 



tion, 159 f. 
Is'vara, 43, 82, 107, 180, 
209 f., 211 ff., 220 ff., 
230 

Is'vara (Mahadeva), 224 



INDEX. 



235 



Itihasas, 2, 8, 17, 22, 24, 
73, 90, 94 ff., 104 f., 
106 f., 186 f. 



Jagati metre, 7, 173, 176 
Jaimini, 22, 24, 27, 66, 87, 

112, 116, 190, 207, 221, 

225 
Jalada, 37 
Jamadagni, 153 
Jan (to generate), 128, 

133 
Janaka, 38 
Janamejaya, 35 
Janardana, 189 
Jaradgava, 63, 64 
Jatavedas, 134, 137, 138, 

158 
John (St.), his First 

Epistle, 135 

his Gospel, 135 

Jupiter, 165 ff. 
Jyotishtoma, 49, 64, 66 



K. 

Eaiyyata, 228 ff. 

Ealauja, 49 

Ealapa, 200, 216 

Kalapas, 229 

Ealapa, 200 

Kalapaka, 62, 216, 230 

Ealatyayapadishta, 216 f. 

Ealchas, 167 

Eali-yuga, 225 

Ealidasa, 50, 51, 88, 91, 
197, 202 

Eanada, 98, 222, 225 

Eanva, 117, 125, 140, 148 

Eanvas, 148 

Ealpa or ceremonial Insti- 
tutes, 19, 91 f., 103, 
105f. 

Eapila, 20, 84, 95, 96 ff., 
181, 213, 225 

Eapinjala, 137 

Earmasiddhi, 161 

Earttikeya, 161 

Eas'yapa, 183 

Eatha (sage), 60, 61, 87, 
200, 215f. 

Eathas, 229 

Eatha Upanishad, 19 

Eathaka, 59ff., 87 ff., 200, 
216, 230 



Eatyayana, 91 
Eaurma-purana, 222 
Eausika, 145 
Eaushltaki Br., 4 
Eaushitakins, 39 
Eauthuma, 59 f., 87 ff. 
Eautsa, 108 
Eavi, 116, 147 
Ehila, 35 
Eikatas, 62, 112 
Eratu, 188 
Eri (to make), 128 
Erishna Dvaipayana, 21, 

22 
Krita yuga, 20, 23, 29, 30 
Kshattriya, 95 
Eulluka on Manu, 5, 11, 

12, 15, 92, 213 
Eumarila, 190, 209, 230 
Eus'ikas, 129, 144 f. 
Kusumanjali, 180, 196, 205, 

211 ff. 
Eusurubinda, 60 
Kuthumi, 60, 87 
Eutsa, 111 



L. 

Langlois, translation of the 

Rig-veda, 119, 176 
Lassen, Ind. Ant., 21 
Laukayatikas, 221 
Linga-purana, 161 
Lokayata, 209 



M. 

Madhava, author of Nyaya- 
mala-Vistara, 87 

author of the 



Sarva-darsana-sangraha, 
190 

author of the 



Vedartha-prakasa, on T. 

S., 5, 44, 47 ff, 88 
Madhu, 21 
Madhusudana Sarasvati, 

101 ff., 217 
Madras, 64 
Maghavan, 118, 119, 134, 

144, 148, 160 
Mahabharata, 22, 50, 60, 

88, 197 f., 215 

quoted, 5, 10, 



21, 23, 30, 31, 51, 90, 
92, 97, 100, 106 



Mahabhashya, 155 
Mahadeva, 5, 161 
Mahasena(Karttikeya), 161 
Mahat, 102 
Mahes'vara, 5, 71, 222 
Mahidhara on the Vaj. 

San., 189 
Maitreya, 20 
Malati Madhava, 199 
Man, 175 f. 
Mandhatri, 126 
Mana (Agastya), 143 
Manamanohara, 202 
Manava-kalpa-sutra, 228ff. 
Manisha, 121 
Manman, 121 
Mantras, 1, 26, 43 ff., 80, 

121, 187 
, magical power 

ascribed to, 172 ff. 
Manu, 22, 23, 92 ff., 97 

117, 119, 122, 142, 182f., 

188 
Manu's Institutes, 4, 6, 11, 

12, 13, 14, 15, 30, 43, 

90, 93 
Manvantaraa, 11, 21, 24 
Marichi, 188 
Maruts, 70, 123, 125, 127, 

131, 139, 144, 147, 149 
Mati, 121 
Matsya Parana, 35 
Mauda, 37 
Maya, 102 
Medhatithi, 5 
Medhavi, 116 
Meru, 32, 34 
Mitra, 122, 124, 132, 136, 

143, 149, 164, 176, 180 
Mimansa, see Purva-ml- 

mansa 
Mlmansakas, 56, 73ff.,93f., 

102, 179 f., 190 ff. 

-, their alleged 



atheism, 207 ff. 
Mimansa- varttika, 209, 230 
Moxa-dharma, 222 
Mudakas, 229 
Miiller, M., 43, 132 

Ancient San- 



krit Lit., 19, 35, 39, 80. 
93, 105, 177, 178 

- Oxford Essay, 



■ Jour, of Ger. 



26 



Or. Soc, 49, 72, 95 
Mundaka Up., 17, 103, 

105 f., 181 f. 
Munis, 101 f., 116 
Muses, 165 ff. 



236 



INDEX. 



N. 

Nabhaka, 126 
Nabhaka, 126 
. Nagelbach's Nachhomer- 

ische Theologie, 171 
Nagojibhatta, 228 ff. 
Nahusha, 181 
Naichas'akha, 62. 
Naiyayikas, 179 f., 190 ff., 

203 
Nasatyas (As'vins), 136 
Narada, 186 f., 188 f. 
Narayana, 22, 28, 29, 222 
Narayana-tirtba, 211 
Nigaaa, 27 
Nigama, 91 
Nirukta, 45f.,90, 91, 105, 

109 ff., 126, 142, 143, 

150, 154, 175, 210 
Nitha, 121 
Nivid, 121 
Nodhas, 131 
Nyaya, 101, 112, 220 
Sutras, 73 ff., 84, 

210, 216 
, are they 

theistic? 210,216 
Nyaya-bhushana, 191, 203 
Nyaya-mala-vistara, 86 ff., 

90ff., 93f. 
Nyaya-sQtra-vritti, 73 



O. 

Odyssey, 166 f., 169 f. 
Olympian Muses, 165 
Omkara, 25, 26, 29 
Oracles, 170 



P. 

Padma-purana, 209, 224 
Paila, 22, 24", 27, 190 
Paingius, 39 
Paippalada, 37 
Pancbadas'a-stoma, 7 
Pandits, 103 
Panini, 39, 87, 200 
Parames'vara, 43, 183, 

188 f., 196, 198 f. 
Parasara, 22, 24, 27, 221 f. 
Parasara Upapurana, 221 
Parjanya, 149 
Parvatl, 224 
Pasupata system, 225 
PSsupatas, 102 
Patanjalas, 102 



Patanjali, Mahabhashya, 
39, 228 ff. 

Yoga, 220 ff. 



Paulkasa, 187 
Paurusheya, 8, 50, 82 
Paurusheyatya, 199 
Pavana, 3 
Pertsob, alpbabetioal list of 

initial words of richas, 71 
Phemius, 167 
Phseacians, 166 
Philosophical systems, 1 OOff 
Pippaladakas, 229 
Plati, 140 
Polyphemus, 61 
Prabhakara, 91, 190, 199, 

209 
Pradhana, 98, 102, 223 
Prajapati, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 11, 

71, 73, 90, 182, 183 
Prakriti, 98, 102, 222 
Pramaganda, 62 
Prasna Upanishad, 98 
Prasthana-bheda, 101 ff. 
Pratridah, 143 
Praudhi-vada, 224 
Pravahani, 60, 61, 63, 

112 
Priyamedhas, 117 
Prosody, 19 
Pulastya, 188 
Pulaha, 188 
Pundarikaxa, 198 
Puranas 2, 8, 17, 22, 24, 

39, 40, 50, 94 ff., 101, 

104 f., 186 f. 
Pururavas, 27 ff., 104 
Purusha, 10, 43, 82, 83, 

87, 161, 199, 222, 226, 

227 
Purusha-medha, 35 
Purusha-sQkta (E. V. x. 

90, 1, 9) v 10, 43, 50, 

198, 227 
Purva - mimansa Sutras 

quoted, 52 ff., 69, 85 f., 

190 
Pflshan, 123, 161, 180 



E. 

Eagbus, 202 
Eaghuransa, 60 
Eahfiganas, 138 
EajSs, 29, 102 
Eajasflya sacrifice, 96 
Eamanujas, 102 
Eamayana, 60 
Eathantara, 173 



Eationalistic treatises, 13, 

103 
Eaxases, 38, 120 
Ri (to move, send forth), 
' 136 

Eibbus, 133, 159 
Rich, 121, 165 
Eik-verses, 7 

Eig-veda, quotations from, 
First Mandala — 

1, 2,-117 

3, 11, 12,-151 

12, 11,-121 

18, 6, 7,-156 
20, 1,-129 
22, 10,-151 
27, 4,-122 
31, 1, 2,-147 
31, 11,-151 
31, 18,-129 
37, 4,-148 
40, 5, 6,-158 
48, 14,-117 
60, 3,-122 

60, 5,-138 

61, 2,-137 
61, 4,-137 
61, 16,-129 

66, 2,-147 

67, 3,-173 

77, 5,-138 

78, 5,-138 
80, 16,-117 
89, 3,-122 
91, 11,-138 
94, 1,-137 
96, 2,-122 
102, 1,-138 
109, 1, 2, 4,-152 

116, 1,-136 

117, 25,-129 

118, 3,-117 
130, 6,-131 

130, 10,-122 

131, 6,-117 
139, 9,-117 
143, 1,-122 
152, 5,-149 
164, 5, 6,-177 
164, 25,-173 
164, 37,-177 
171, 2,-131 
175, 6,-117 
179, 2,-141 
183, 6,-138 

Second Mandala — 
1, 2,-169 
3, 8,-152 
17, 1,-122 

19, 8,-131 



INDEX. 



237 



Big-veda continued. 

Second Mandala — 
23, 2,-158 
24, 1,-122 
35, 2,-131 
39, 8,-129 

Third Mandala— 

1, 20,-123 

2, 1,-133 
18, 3,-152 

21, 3,-147 

29, 15,-144 

30, 20,-129 
32, 14,-152 

39, 1,-123 
43, 5,-144 
63, 9,-144 

53, 12,-173 

54, 17,-159 
58, 3,-117 
62, 7,-123 
62, 10,-6, 161 

Fourth Mandala — 

3, 16,-138 

5, 3,-156 

6, 6,-157 
6, 1—157 
6, 11,-129 
11, 3,-157 
16, 20,-129 

20, 5,-117 
32, 12,-138 

34, 1,-152 
43, 1, 2,-153 
50, 1,-118 

Fifth Mandala— 
2, 11,-131 
11, 5,-139 

22, 4,-139 
29, 1,-147 

35, 4,-173 

40, 6,-173 
42, 6,-118 
42, 13,-123 
45, 4,-139 

55, 8,-123 
Sixth Mandala — 

14, 2,-147 

16, 47—132 

17, 13,-123 

18, 15,-159 

19, 4,-118 

21, 5,-118 

21, 8,-118 

22, 2,-118 
22, 7—124 
26, 3,-159 
32, 1,-132 
34, 1,-124 
38, 3,-139 



Big-veda continued. 
Sixth Mandala — 
44, 13,-124 
47, 3,-162 

47, 10,-159 

48, 11,-124 

49, 1,-124 

50, 6, -124 

60, 15,-118 
62, 4,-124 

75, 19,-174 
Seventh Mandala — 

7, 6,-132 
15, 4,-133 

18, 1,-118 

19, 11,-174 
22, 9,-133 
26, 1,-133 
29, 4,-118 
31, 11,-134 
33, 3,-174 

33, 7-14,-142, 143 

34, 1,-153 
34, 9,-153 
53, 1,-119 
53, 2,-124 
56, 23,-124 
59, 4,-125 

61, 2,-136 
61, 6,-125 
64, 4,-132 

66, 11,-164 

67, 5,-139 

76, 4,-119 
85, 1,-139 

87, 4,-144 

88, 4,-144 

90, 3,-153 

91, 1,-119 

93, 1,-125 

94, 1, 2,-134 

96, 3,-153 

97, 3, 5,-159, 160 
97, 9,-130 

Eighth Mandala — 
3, 3,-146 
5, 18,-139 

5, 24,-125 

6, 10,-146 
6, 11,-125 
6, 33,-132 
6, 41,-147 
6, 43,-125 

8, 8,-140 
12, 10,-125 
12, 14,-156 

12, 31,-136 

13, 7,-160 
13, 26,-136 
15, 7,-174 



Rig-veda continued. 
Eighth Mandala — 
16, 7,-147 
20, 19,-125 
23, 14,-125 
25, 24,-126 
27, 11,-140 
36, 7,-119 ' 

39, 6,-126 

40, 12,-126 

41, 2,-126 

41, 5, 6,-163 
44, 12—126 

48, 3,-162 

49, 9,-174 
51, 4,-130 
65, 11,-127 

63, 7, 8,-127 

64, 6,-51, 58, 164 

65, 6, 6, 12,-127 
77, 4—134 

84, 4, 5,-134 

88, 4,-149 

89, 3, 4,-151 

89, 10, 11,-150 

90, 16,-150, 163 
Ninth Mandala — 

9, 8,-127 

25, 5,-163 
33, 5,-153 

42, 2,-127 
62, 1,-71 
73, 2,-135 
76, 4,-163 
87, 3,-145 

91, 6,-127 

92, 3,-164 
95, 1,-135 

95, 2,-163 

96, 11,-119 
96, 5-7,-163 
96, 18,-147 
99, 4,-127 
107, 7,-147 
110, 7,-119 

Tenth Mandala — 
4, 5,-157 
4, 6,-128 ' 
7, 2,-135 
14, 15,-120 

20, 10,-149 

21, 6,-157 
23, 5-7,-136 

26, 4,-161 

27, 22,-148 
35, 6,-153 , 
39, 14,-132, 164 
42, 1,-140 

64, 6,-130 
56, 14,-120 



238 



INDEX. 



Eig-veda continued. 
Tenth Mandala — 
67, 2,-227 
57, 3,-227 

61, 7,-149 

62, 1, 3,-141 

62, 4, 5,-142 

63, 17,-140 
67, 1,-136 
71, 1-6,-164 

71, 3,-73 

72, 1, 2,-146 

79, 1,-145 

80, 7,-133 

88, 18,-177 

89, 3,-128 

90, 1,-43 

90, 9,-10, 50, 
227 

91, 8,-157 
91, 13,-128 



198, 



91, 14 
96, 5,- 
96, 10 
96, 11 
98, 9,- 
101, 2 
107,6 
109,4 

110, 8 

111, 1 

112, 5 
112, 9, 

114, 8 

115, 5 
116,9 
125, 3 
129, 5 
129, 6 



■136 

■120 

-155 

-128 

120 

-130 

-140 

-146 

-155 

-140 

-148 
,—160 
',—174 
-148 
,—137 
-5,-155 
—45, 178 
,—46, 180 



129, 5-7,-178 

130, 1-7,-175 
139, 5,-158 
154, 2, 5,-146 
167, 1,-146 

176, 2,-156 

177, 1,-156 
190, 1,-146 

Bishis, 6, 89 f., 95, 107, 

109 ff. 
distinguished as 

new and old, 116 
speak of themselves 

as authors of hymns, 

128 ff. 

-, supernatural cha 



racter ascrihed to, 141 ff. 
• conscious of divine 



inspiration, 148 ff., 164f. 
- their opposite views 



how reconciteable, 171 f. 



Bishis, their confessions of 
ignorance, 177 f. 

■, their idea of inspi- 



ration different from that 

of later writers, 179 f. 

, rival the gods, 180f. 

Eitual, 18 

Boer, Bibliotheca Indica, 

7, 8, 19, 96, 100, 150, 

181, 187, 216 
Bomaharsharja, 22 
Both, Illustrations to Ni- 

rukta, see Nirukta. 
Both's Lexicon, see Boeht- 

lingk and Both. 
Eudra, 16, 46 f., 161 
Budras, 69, 130 



S'abara, 190 
Sadasaspati, 156 
Sagara, sons of, 97, 99 
S'akhas of the Veda, 11, 

20, 39, 60, 83, 215 
Sama-rathantara, 7 
Sama-veda, impurity of its 

sound, 15, 16 
Sama-veda quoted, 71, 132, 

134, 135, 137, 146, 147, 

149, 161, 163, 174 
Saman, 121, 143 
Sama verses, 7, 176 
S'ami wood, 28 
Samidhenis, 79 
S'amsa, 121 
Sanaka, 188 
Sanatkumara, 186 f. 
Sanhitas of the Veda, 19, 

27, 104, 106 
S'ankara Acharyya, 45, 52, 

65 ff., 83, 94 ff., 101, 

104 f., 178, 180, 182, 

187, 188, 207, 213, 223 
Sankhyas, 98 f., 102, 203 
Sankhya, 101, 112, 220 ff. 
Aphorisms, 8 1 ff., 

105 
Sankhya-karika, 86, 162 
Sankhya- pravachana - bha- 

shya, 217 ff. 
S'antanu, 26 
Saptadasa-stoma, 7 
Sarasvati, goddess, 10, 23, 

151, 152, 153, 165, 170, 

180 
, mother of the 

Vedas, 10 
S'ariraka Sutras, 65 



S'ariraka - mimansa - bha- 
shya, 66 

Sarva - dars'ana - sangraha, 
190 ff. 

S'atapatha Brahmana 
quoted, 3, 7, 29, 36, 113, 
120 

Sattva guna, 11, 102, 185 

Satyavaha, 18 

Satyavati, 27 

S'aunaka, 18 

S'aunakas, 37 

Savitri, 161, 176 

Savitri, 6 

Sayana, Vedarthaprakas'a, 
or commentary on B. V., 
40 ff., 51, 59, 61, 63, 
106, 117, 120, 121, 122, 
123,124, 129,131, 132 f., 
138, 147, 149, 151, 167, 
159, 173, 178, 179, 226 

Saxat-krita-dharman, 210 

Siddhanta-muktavali, 216 

S'iva, 35, 161, 188 

Sjiksha, 68, 105 

S'ins'apa (sisu), tree, 204 

S'lokas, 8, 104 

Smriti, 13, 43, 44 ff., 91, 
93, 95 f, 100, 198, 223 

Sobhari, 125 

Soma, god, 119, 127, 135, 
138, 147, 148, 164, 176, 
180 

, source of inspiration, 

162 f. 

Soma, juice, 152 

Somas'arman, 201 

Souls, diversity of, 98 

Sound, eternity of, 62 ff. 

Speech, 5, 108, 150 

Sphota, 25, 72, 84 f. 

Sramana, 187 

S'ruti, 1, 11, 13, 100 

Stoma, 121 

Stuti, 121 

Sudras, 50, 66 

Sukta, 121 

Sumati, 121 

Sumantu, 22, 24, 27, 190 

Sun, 3 ff., 43 

Superior science, 18 

Sushtuti, 121 

Surya, 170 

Sttta, 22, 24 

Sutras or Aphorisms, 8, 
39, 104 

Svadha, 150, 178 

Svaha, 150 

Svar, 3, 4, 6, 10 

Svarbhanu, 173 f. 



INDEX. 



239 



Svayambhu, 5, 71, 73, 83, 

90 
SvayambhuvU manvantara, 

22, 23 

S'vetas'vatara, sage, 181 

Ui 

96, 100, 181 
S'yavas'Ta, 119 



Taittiriyaa, 33 

Taittiriya Brahmana [?], 

173, 227 

Sanhita, 88 

Sakha 60, 87, 

200 



- Upanishad, 98 

Yajur-veda, 35 

Tamas, 102, 224 
Tamasa worts, 224 
Tapas, 146, 181 
Tarka-sangraha, 209 f., 216 
Tax (to fabricate), 128, 130 
Thamyris, 166 
Theogonia, 165 ff. 
Thestor, 168 
Threefold science, 28 
Tiras'chT, 134 
Tittiri, 33, 60, 87 
Tretayuga, 20, 27 ff. 
Trisarvl, 35 
Trishtubb, 7 
Tritsus, 174 
Trivrit, 7 
Tvashtri, 149 

U. 

Udayana, 180, 191, 203, 

204, 206, 211 ff. 
TTdgatri, 3 
Uktha, 7, 121, 143, 174, 

176 
Ulysses, 166 
Upanishads, 1, 2, 8, 17, 26, 

40, 103 ff, 106, 181,226 
TTpapuranas, 17 
Urvas'I, 27 ff., 104, 143 
Us"anas, 145 
Ushas, 139 
TTshmas, 26 
Ushnih metre, 7, 176 
Utpannatva, 199 

V. 

Vach, 73, 108, 121, 150, 
151, 153, 154, 155, 170, 
180 



Vachas, 121 
Vaglsvara, 191, 202 - 
Vajasaneyius, 36 
Vajasaneyi ritual, 35 
Sanhita, or 

■white Yajur-veda,quoted, 

35, 120, 146, 155, 161, 

227 
Vajins, 33, 35 
VairQpa, 7 
Vaisampayana, 22, 24, 27, 

32ff., 35, 190 
Vais'eshika, 95, 220, 225 
Vaishnavas, 102 
Vaisvanara (Agni), 133 
Vaivasvata Manvantara, 

21, 22, 27 
Vaktratunda (Ganes'a), 161 
Valakhilyas, 145, 160 
Valmiki, 60, 89 
Varuna, 124, 132, 136, 

139, 143, 144, 149, 170, 

176, 180 

source of inspira- 



tion, 160, 163 f. 
Varutrl, 151 
Vashat, 150 
Vashatkara', 10 
Vasishtha, 142 ff, 153, 

174,' 179 
Vasishthas, 120, 143 
Vastoshpati, 149 
Vasus, 69 f., 130 
Vatsa, 140 
Vatsayana, 210 
Vayu, 119, 170 
Vayu Purana, 17, 22, 33, 

35 
Vasudeva, 97 
Vedangas, 58, 91 
Ved'anta, 101 ff. 

Sutras, 65 ff. 



Vedantists, 102, 179 f. 
Vedartha-prakas'a on R.V., 

40 

on T. S., 

. 5,44, 47 ff, 88 f., 90 
Vedas, their elemental 

origin, 3ff. 
, world formed from, 

4, 5, 71 

- issued from Brahma's 



mouth, 6 f. 

-, breath of great 



Being, 7f., 83 f., 104 f., 
212 

identified with 



speech, mind, and life, 8 
• identified with Vish- 



Vedas sprung from the 

Gayatri, 9 
sprung from Saras- 

yati, 10 

sprung from Puru- 



sha, 10 

sprung from time, 11 

- sprung from remain- 



der of sacrifice, 227 
classed with other 

S'astras by the Upani- 
shads, 8, 105 ff. 
, power, dignity, etc., 

of, 12 ff. 

, division of, 11, 20 ff. 

, original extent of, 

21,22 
, mutual hostility of 

the different schools of, 

36 ff. 

arguments in sup- 



port of their authority, 
39 ff., 52 ff., 73 ff., 86 ff., 
196 ff, 212 ff. 

, eternity of, asserted, 

11, 52 ff, 69 ff, 107, 
164, 196 ff. 
-, eternity of, denied, 



73 ff, 81 ff., 211 ff. 

superior to other 

S'astras, 90 ff. 

self-proving power, 

107 f. 



seen by the rishis, 

107, 109 
-, remarks on the ar- 



guments in support of, 
108 ff. 

really composed by 

the rishis, 109ff., 114 
■ contrasted with later 



S'astras, 114 
, character and con- 
tents, 2, 109 ff., 114 f. 
distinction of new 



and old hymns in, 116 ff. 
-, see Rishis 



nu, 11, 16 



Vedic Sanhitas, 103 
Vedhas, 116 
Vedavyasa, see Vyasa. 
Verbal Divinity, 188 f. 
Videha, 38 
Vidvan - moda - tarangini, 

208 S - ' 

Vijfiana Bhikshu, 81, 209, 

217 ff. 
Vidya, 104 - 
Vimada, 135, 136, 149 
Vimadas, 135 
Vipascb.it, 116 



240 



INDEX. 



Vipra, 116 

Viraj metre, 7, 176 

Virflpa, 51, 58, 164 

Vishnu, 11 ff., 20, 24, 35, 
99, 160, 163, 189, 198 
225 ' 

Vishnu Purana quoted, or 
referred to, 4, 6, 11, 16, 
20 ff., 31, 100, '210; 

Vis'vamitra, 144 f., 173, 

179, 181 
Visvanatha Bhattacharyya, 

73, 217 " 
Vis'vavasu, 158 
Visvedevas, 70, 176 
Vrihad Arauyaka TTpani- 

shad, 7ff.,38,71, 103 ff., 

108, 150, 180, 187, 217 
Vrihaduktha, 130 
Vrihat-sama, 7 
Vrihaspati, god, 118, 154, 

158, 176 
-,heretical teacher, 

225 



Vrihaspati, author of a 

smriti, 92 
Vrittra, 125, 127 
Vyahritis, 26 
Vyakhyanas, 105 
Vyasa, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 

60, 73, 88, 190, 221, 

224 



W. 

Weber Ind. Lit., 35 

Iud. Stud. 4,36 ff., 



100, 101 
Vaj. Sanhita, 190 

Vaj. San. Spec., 

173 

Wilson, H. H., 2 

translation 

of Vishnu Purana, 4, 7, 
11, 16, 20, 24, 29, 31, 
35, 99, 100, 146, 210, 
224, 225 



Wilson, H. H., translation 
of Kig-veda, 162, 177 

Sankhya 

karika, 25, 162 



Vajnadatta, 70 
Tajna-paribhasha, 44 
Tajnavalkya, 32 ff, 38 
Yajur-veda, see Veda, and 

Taittirlya andVajasaneyi 

Sanhitas. 
Vajush, 121 
Yajush-Yerses, 7 
Tama (Agni?), 143 
Tama, 146 
Vaska, see Nirukta. 
Yatudhana, 110 
Yoga aphorisms, 224 

philosophy, 220 

Yogas, 85, 102 
Yogis, 222 
Yugas, 22, 106 



THE END. 



STEPHEN AUSTIN, PHINTEE, HEHTFORD. 



