CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 




Date 


Due 




BtfiDH 












h^kj'k 


n 




' ' -JJ 1 iv 


u 










BPPHbwi 


» 





































































































DS 404.5^K92" ""'"""'" '""'^ 
Ancient India / 




3 1924 022 968 840 



ANCIENT INDIA 



All Bights reserved 



ANCIENT INDIA 



BY 

S. KRISHNASWAMI AIYANGAE, M.A. 

Member of the Royal Asiatic Society of Oreal Britain and Ireland 
Fellow of the Roijal Bistorical Society, London. 

Member ol the Board of Studies, and Examiner in History and 
Economics. Vnirersity of Madras 

Mysore Education Serria: 



WITH AN INTRODUCTION 

BY 

VINCENT A. SMITH, M.A., I.C.S. (retired) 
Author of the ' Early History of India ' 



LONDON: LUZAC & Co., IC great kussell isteeet 

MADEAS: S.P.C.K. DEPOSITORY, VEPBEY 

1911 



1)5 
4-04- 



/\fl 



^,©XKg^ 



6 



PRINTED AT THE 
:. PKESS, VEPBKY, MADRAS 

1911 



"^QXYS^ 



INSCRIBED TO THE :ME:M0RY 
OP 

JOHN WEIE 

[Inspector-General op Education in JIybore] 
( November 1, 1909— July 31, 1911 ) 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924022968840 



PEEFACE 

The first chapter deals with the early portion of Indian 
History, and so the title ' Ancient India ' has been given 
to the book. The other chapters deal with a variety ot 
subjects, and are based on lectures given on different occa- 
sions. One was originally prepared as my thesis for the 
M.A. Degree Examination of the University of Madras. 

The favourable reception given to my early work by 
historical and oriental scholars encouraged me to put my 
researches into a more permanent form, which a liberal 
grant from the Madras School Book and Literature Society 
has enabled me to do. 

I have to thank the editors and publishers who have so 
kindly allowed me to reproduce articles which first appeared 
in their respective periodicals. Amongst these are Sir 
Eiehard Temple, Mr. G. A. Natesan, the Committee of the 
South Indian Association, Mylapore, and the Mythic Society, 
Bangalore. I also desire to acknowledge the assistance 
which has been given me in the publication of the work 
by the Eev. Canon Sell, and my obligation to Mr. Vincent 
A. Smith for his valuable Introduction. 

Chamaeajendbapet, i S. K. 

Ba.xgalobe City, 
A2ifn(st 1, 1911. ) 



CONTENTS 



INTRODUCTION- 
CHAPTER I 



A HISTORICAL SURVEY UP TO A. D. 
700 
II HISTORY OF SOUTH INDIA 

III STRUGGLE FOE EMPIRE IN SOUTH 

INDIA ... 

IV INDIA AT THE DAWN OF THE 

CHRISTIAN ERA 
V THE MYS(JEE STATE — A RETEO- 
SPECT ... 
VI THE CHOLA EMPIRE IN SOUTH 
INDIA ... 
VII SRI RAMANU.TACHARYA, HIS LIFE 
AND TIMES 
VIII THE MAKING OF MYSORE 
IX VISHNCVARDHANA 
X BI.T.IALA ... 
XI MYSORE UNDER THE WODEYABS... 

XII THE VALUE OP LITERATURE IN 
THE CONSTIiUCTION OF INDIAN 
HISTORY 
XIII THE THIRD TAMIL SANGAM 

XIV THE AUGUSTAN AGE OF TAMIL 

LITERATI 'RE 

XV SOME POINTS IN TAMIL LITERARY 

HISTORY 



PAGE 
IX 

1 

■29 

40 

54 

76 

90 

192 
±22 
•254 
261 
272 



814 
330 

836 

873 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 



CHAPTER XVI SELF-IMMOLATION WHICH IS NOT 

SAT! ... ... ... 385 

,, XVII agnikula: the fire-race ... B90 

„ XVIII THE AGE OF NAMMALVAE ... 896 

„ XIX TIRUMANGAI ALVAR AND HIS DATE. 402 

APPENDIX. — NOTES ... ... ... 415 

ERRATA ... ... ... ... 416 

INDEX ... ... ... ... 419 

MAPS 

SOUTH INDIA ABOUT A.D. 1100 FACING ... 140 

SOUTH INDIA AT THE SANGAM PERIOD FACING ... 369 



INTEODUCTION 

The request made to me by Mr. S. Krishnaswami 
Aiyangar that I should prefix to his volume of collected 
essays on the literarj' and political history of Southern 
India, a few words of introduction met with ready 
acceptance, because nothing gives me greater pleasure 
than to watch the steady progress made by Indian- 
born students in the investigation of the ancient 
history of their country. It would be easy to name 
many recent Indian authors who have made important 
and solid contributions to accurate knowledge of the 
early history of India. Among such writers, Mr. 
Krishnaswami Aiyangar holds an honourable place 
and if he had leisure greater than that which official 
duties permit, he might, perhaps, produce that Eatiif 
History of Southern India which is so much wanted 
and can be written only by a scholar familiar with 
the country and one or more of the Dravidian verna- 
culars. The collection of papers now offered to the 
public does not profess to be such a history. It is 
simply a reissue of essays printed on various occasions 
at different times, and in some cases now subjected to 
slight revision. A volume of the kind which is rather 
materials for history than history itself, necessarily 
suffers from unavoidable overlapping and repetition, 
and from a lack of unity. But notwithstanding the 
defects inherent in an assemblage of detached essays 



XU INTBODUCTION 

I can cordially recommend this book as being a reada- 
ble and generally sound introduction to the study in 
detail of the history of the South. 

The first chapter, ' A Historical Survey up to A. T>. 
700 ' is a well-written summary. The hypothesis 
(p. 17) that the Sakas of Seistan were disturbed and 
set in motion towards India by pressure from the 
Sassanian dynasty of Persia established in a.d. 226 
may yet be verified. The next three chapters give an 
excellent general review of the salient facts of early 
South Indian history so far as known. If the author 
(p. 67) is correct in saying that the Gurjjaras are 
mentioned in the Tamil epic poem called Manimehlialai, 
"the composition of that work cannot be much anterior 
to A. D. 500, inasmuch as the Gurjjaras do not seem 
to have entered India before the middle of the fifth 
century. He holds (p. 75) that the epic is earlier 
than the time of Varahamihira (A. D. 533), because the 
poet uses a reckoning of the asterisms which was 
superseded by the improved system of the Hellenizing 
astronomer. 

Many of the essays now collected, I may observe, 
make valuable contributions to the history and chro- 
nology of Indian, and especially of Tamil literature. 
The older histories of Indian literature were restricted 
to the discussion of works written in Sanskrit and 
Prakrit. The ideal history of the vast literature of 
India should give almost equal attention to the noble 
works in the Southern languages, among which Tamil 
is pre-eminent. The translations published by Mr. 
Gover, Dr. Pope, and a few other scholars suffice to 
prove the high ethical and artistic value of the Tamil 



INTRODTTCTION XIll 

compositions. So far as 1 can judge Mr. Krishnaswami 
Aiyangar is right in dating the best period of Tamil 
literature in the second and third centuries of the 
Christian era. 

The most important and generally interesting chapter 
in the hook is the sixth (pp. 90-191), which gives an 
admirable abstract of the political history of the 
Cholas, with a detailed account of their system of 
Government and village administration, well deserving 
of attentive study. The Chola dynasty was singularly 
prolific in kings of more than ordinary capacity, from 
the middle of the ninth century to the end of the 
reign of Kulottunga in a. d. 1118. It is clear from the 
details on record that the administration of the kingdom 
was ' highly systematized ' from an early date. For 
instance, there is abundant evidence that ' the lands 
under cultivation were carefully surveyed and holdings 
registered at least a century before the famous Dc-mes- 
day record of Wilham the Conqueror'. There-survey 
of 1086 was exactly contemporaneous with the English 
record. 

' The Cholas were great builders ; builders not only 
of cities and temples (sometimes for strategic purposes 
sometimes in obedience to the dictates of their vanity), 
but also of useful irrigation works '. It is lamentable 
to be obliged to record the disgraceful fact that ' when 
the lower Coleroon anient (dam) was built, the struc- 
ture (that is to say, the noble temple of Gangaikonda- 
puram),was dismantled of a large part of the splendid 
granite sculptures which adorned it, and the enclosing 
wall was almost wholly destroyed in order to obtain 
material for the work.' By the kindness of Mr. Eea, 



XIV INTBODTJCTION 

I have been supplied with photographs of some of the 
surviving figure sculptures, a few of which will be pub- 
lished in my forthcoming History of Fine Art in 
India and Ceylon. They may, perhaps, be considered 
"the finest known Hindu sculptures, and certainly take 
rank among the best. A fully illustrated monograph 
on Gangaikondapuram and Chola art generally would 
be of great interest. 

The discussion in Chapter VII of ' Sri Eamanuja- 
•charya, his Life and Times ', throws much light upon 
an important epoch in the story of Indian religious 
development. 

The origin and growth of the State of Mysore are 
treated at length in two chapters. But the identifica- 
tion of the ancient Mahisha Mandala with Mysore 
must, as Dr. Fleet has shown, be given up. Mahish- 
matl appears to have been the capital of the Mahishas, 
and Ij now represented by Mandhata on the Narbada. 

The later chapters dealing with certain special 
problems, chiefly concerned with Tamil religious and 
literary history, are of less general interest. 

Oxford, VINCENT A. SMITH. 

February 8, 1911. 



CHAPTER I 
A HISTORICAL SUBVEY UP TO A.D. 700 

In attempting to look back upon our own history, 
the first essential would appear to be the marking 
of a few of the more salient features, so that we 
may group round these a number of minor events 
and incidents. This will give us perspective ; and 
whatever imperfection there may be in detail it will 
make the whole presentable. If, at this distance, we 
take a retrospect, the history of India of the Aryan 
invasions would appear, like our own Himalayas at a 
great distance, all smooth but for a few peaks of 
commanding height. ' Happy is the nation w'hose 
annals are a blank,' said Carlyle, and if we can derive 
comfort from this seeming blankness, we shall perhaps 
be in a delusion. I shall attempt, therefore, to present 
in outline the outstanding features with a view to 
clothing these later on to make them as presentable 
looking as we may. 

We have to begin with the Aryans in their own 
homes wherever they might have been and move along 
with them. This will be extra-Indian in character and 
withal essential to the proper understanding of their 
doings in India. We shall name this the Pre-Indiau 
age of the Indo-Aryans circ. 3000 B. r. During this 
age the Aryans advance up to the Indian frontier. 
They are a nomadic-agricultural folk, already differen- 
iiiated from their Iranian brethren, developing some 
of the features peculiar to the Indo-Aryans of the 
Eig-Veda. 



^ ANCIENT INDIA 

The next step in advance takes them across the 
frontier into India. During this stage of their migra- 
tion we find them in occupation of the land of the five 
rivers. It is here for the first time that the Aryans 
come in contact v^ith the aboriginal inhabitants of 
India and the struggle for possession of the country 
hegins. The more rudimentary civilization, of course, 
gives way to the more advanced and vigorous. It is 
again in the land of the five rivers that the simple 
civilization and compact tribal organization take form 
and are pictured to us in the Eig-Veda. The rich 
soil and flourishing communities catch the eyes and 
attract the desires of the neighbouring, but still pri- 
mitive, cousins of these Indian Aryans. To make 
room for these new arrivals, not without a fight 
perhaps, the Indo-Aryans move forward across the 
rivers to the Doab of the Ganges and the Jumna. 
All this may be ascribed roughly to the half millennium 
2000-1500 B.C. 

As the Greek cousins of these Indo-Aryans did, so 
these latter underwent a similar course of development 
according to their own environment, geographical and 
political. In the Gangetic Doab, we find the Aryans 
developing more powerful communities, which, instead 
of becoming city-states as in Greece, led to strong 
monarchies ruling great tribes and vast kingdoms, par- 
ticularly as the country was more open. It was in 
these regions that the great inter-tribal wars typified 
in the Mahabhdrata must have taken place. At least, 
the incidents referred to in the great epic have their 
theatre here. Hence this period of history has come 
to be known that of the Mahdbharata. It is here for 
the first time that the Aryans get into touch, not only 
with the uncivilized aborigines who are the feature of 
the Punjab plains, as even the later Brihat Katlid 
makes it clear, but also with the civilized Dravidians 
of India. It is here, as with the Greeks in Attica and 



THE DEVELOPJIBNT OE- THE AltYANS 3 

Boeotia, that the Aryans change their policy of usur- 
pation to that of amalgamation, which alone was pos- 
sible under the circumstances. To these events is 
ascribed the period included in the centuries between 
1500-1000 B.C. 

From here the further expansion eastwards could not 
be in the wholesale fashion as heretofore, but had to 
be in driblets. This expansion takes the form of a few 
powerful kingdoms farther east than the Doab. What 
the Kurus (or Kam'avas) and the Pauchalas were to 
the Doab, the Kosalas and Yidehas were to the further 
east of those times. It is these regions that the Bcivid- 
yana describes. The period taken up in the expansion 
(or infiltration) into these regions may have been the 
quarter millennium 1000-7-50 b. c. 

During these periods the Indo-Aryans were rearing 
those great edifices of learning and religion, which 
have given this land of ours all its claims to greatness 
in the various departments of human activity. The 
jDre-Yedic Aryans brought in their traditions, which 
they could elaborate at leisure in the Punjab. These, 
in course of time, were put into shape in the hymns 
of the Veda, which, as time advanced, required to be 
explained by an elaborate commentary. These com- 
mentaries are the Brahman as. These in their turn led 
±0 the further disquisitions called the Aranyakas cul- 
minating in the philosophical flights of the Upanishads, 
This transformation, or rather elaboration, has been 
going on steadily up to the period we arrived at in 
the last section. This is not all. Certain scientific 
inquiries had to be made for the proper understanding 
of the Yedas and the Yedic ritual. Their need was 
met by the elaboration of the Vedangas namely, (1) 
Jvalpa which included geometry so far as it applied 
to the construction of sacrificial altars, (2) Siksha or 
phonetics, (3) Chandas or metre, (4) Myakarana or 
grammar, (-5) Xirukta or study of words, (6) Jyotisha 



4 ANCIENT INDIA 

or astronomy. These Vedangas find brief treatment in 
the Brahmanas or Upanishads and acquire the neces- 
sary scientific cast in the age we have come to just now. 

This development leads us on to the so-called Sutra 
period, because this growing mass of literature required 
to be put in a shape which could easily be mastered. 
The alphabet, no doubt, had been invented already (or 
adapted thoroughly to Indian requirements), though 
perhaps it was not brought quite into common usage. 
This period overlaps the next and may be taken to 
occupy the four centuries between 750 B.C. and say 
350 B.C. So far then we have to rely entirely upon 
such evidence as is available in our sacred literature, 
and scholars have allotted these to very varying periods. 

The Aryan home is placed within the Arctic Circle 
by Mr. Tilak, and he ascribes a very early period 
(7000 B.C.) indeed for the earliest hymns of the Big- 
Veda ; while European schola.rs would bring it to 
1500 B. c. Mr. Tilak rests his arguments upon certain 
solar and other astronomical phenomena referred to in 
the earlier hymns which upon his hypothesis find clear 
explanation. The late Mr. Shankar Ealakrishna Dikshit 
refers certain at least of the Brahmanas to 3800 b. c. ; 
there being a reference in the Satapada Brahmaria to 
the Pleiades being in the Equinox, which is verifiable 
astronomically. Dr. Thibaut considers that the verse 
referred to is a late interpolation. So our position 
here is not very secure, and therefore our chronology 
respecting this period cannot lay claim to much ac- 
curacy. The ultimate downward limit of our period 
may be taken to be accurate, as it brings in an tin- 
looked for synchronism. Pythagoras,^ the Greek philo-^ 
sopher, is believed to have learned in India not only 
his theory of transmigration, but also his theory of 
numbers from our Sankya system. Drs. Goldstiicker 

1 A. B. Keith disputes this. J.R.A.S., vol. 1909, pp. 569 et seq, 



ARYAN IMMIGRATION INTO THE SOUTH 5 

:and Bhandarkar refer the grammarian Panini to this 
period, and if this be correct it brings the history of 
South India into touch with that of the North. 

Taking a fresh starting point, therefore, somewhere 
in the sixth century B. c, we find ourselves upon some- 
what firmer ground as outside fight begins to beat in 
upon us. In the centuries on either side of 750 B. c. 
the Aryans begin penetrating into the Mahakantara 
round about the Vindhyas, the memory of which is 
preserved in the tradition regarding Agustia's advent 
into the south. If the Eamayana could be trusted to 
be correct regarding its geographical details, the great 
forest extends up to the Pampa Saras, which is on 
the north bank of the Tangabhadra near modern 
Hampe, though the Saras (or tank) must haVe been 
forgotten under the name, as the author of the Tamil 
Eamayana makes it, Pampanadi. The advent of Agustia 
introduces reclamation of the jungle into arable land, 
and he is the reputed author of the first Tamil gram- 
mar. Whoever this Agustia was, Eishi or some one 
else by that name, he does for Tamil what Panini did 
for Sanskrit. That he criticizes Panini appears to be 
in evidence in one of the very few quotations that 
have come down to us. It would thus appear that the 
Aryan migration into south India has to be referred 
to this period of the Sutras. 

When the whole of India, north and south, is getting 
organized, the overgrowth of ritualism, and perhaps of 
refigion becoming too much of a mystery, sets thought- 
ful people thinking about this very subject. There 
appear in the sixth century B.C. two great men who 
have contributed very much to bring about a mighty 
transformation. It is certainly in the fitness of things 
that these should have flourished in the spots favoured 
by nature, where before their time the daring flights 
of speculation into the mystery of the Unknown reached 
its grand climacteric under the Indian Pisistratus as he 



O ANCIENT INDIA 

is called, or Eajarishi Janaka. These two great sons 
of India are Maha Vira Vardhamana, the founder of the 
religion of the Jina, and Gautama Sakyamuni, the 
Buddha. The new teachings of the latter, and the 
appeal they made to the people have long been recog- 
nized as the potent cause of the development of the 
languages of the people. This influence from the 
distant north found ready response even in the distant 
south, with which communication appears to have been- 
maintained by way of the sea, while yet the Danda- 
karanya had not been penetrated by a great highway,, 
the Dakshinapatha. In another way the advent of 
the Buddha has also been of advantage to students 
of history. His religion it was that took India from 
her blissful isolation, and led her to take her place 
among the world Powers, but this was not as yet. 

With the advent of Buddhism comes into promi- 
nence the kingdom of Magadha, perhaps semi- Aryan, 
as it was in the borderland of Aryavarta. The capitals 
of this kingdom appear to have been Eajagriha, Kai- 
keyi's father's kingdom, and Vaisali, also spoken of in 
the Eamayana. Bimbisara of the Saisunaga dynasty 
and his patricide son Ajatasatru were contemporaries- 
of the Buddha. Before the Buddha attained nirvana. 
Buddhism had obtained a great hold upon the people- 
of India, and Buddhist monks and nuns had gone about 
carrying the Buddhist gospel. 

This age when two religious reformers flourished, and 
in which the foundation of the greatness of the kingdom 
of Magadha was laid is remarkable in many ways. 
This is the age in which an Indian contingent fought 
in the battles of Thermopylae and Plataea in Greece, 
'in cotton clothes, cane bows, and iron-tipped arrows'. 
This was possible because of the twentieth satrapy on 
the west bank of the Indus, formed by the adventurous 
skill of the Carian admiral of Darius Hystaspes, by 
name Skylax. The date of the navigation of the Indus 



KINGDOMS AND TRIBES 7 

by this admiral and the foundation of the satrapy are 
placed at about 510 B.C. Not far from this period 
India, then known to the Aryans, was divided into 
sixteen kingdoms and a number of autonomous tribes. 
For besides the accepted line of advance of the Aryans, 
there appear to have been two other streams of migra- 
tion — one skirting the lower Himalayas and the other 
moving down the valley of the Indus. The tribes are 
found along the mountain borders east of the Ganges, 
some of them also along the upper reaches of the 
Punjab rivers. Several of them were governed by their 
own tribal meetings, held in the hall of the tribe — 
Santhagara. 

I mention only one of them, because it was a king- 
dom previously. I mean the Videhas of modern Tirhut 
whose King Janaka has already been mentioned. These 
were a section of the great Vajjian clan and were during 
this period under the government of a republic, whose 
headman, as in the case of other republics as well, was 
called a Eajah, answering to the Roman consul or 
Athenian archon. It is from one of these clans of 
nortliern Bihar that the Buddha himself was born. 

The kingdoms were, proceeding from the west in 
geographical order, Kambhoja with capital Dvaraka, 
answering to modern Sindh and Gujarat ; Gandhara, 
eastern Afghanistan between the Afghan mountains and 
a little way to the east of the Indus with its capital 
Taxila (near Shah Deri) ; Avanti, the modern Malva 
with its capital Ujjain ; the Assaka (Asmaka or Asvaka) 
■SFith its capital P5tali or Potana on the banks of the 
Godavari (modern Paitan) ; the Surasenas with their 
capital Madhura, the modern Muttra ; the Matsyas 
west of the Jumna answering to the cis-Sutlej Sikh 
States or Phulkian States ; the two Panchalas round 
about Kanouj and Kampilla ; the Kurus occupying the 
country round about Delhi ; "Vamsa, the country of the 
Vatsas with its capital Fosambi ; Chedi, one at least 



8 ANCIENT INDIA 

of the tribes having had their local habitat in Bundle- 
khand, the other being located somewhere in Nepal ; 
the Mallas round about Kusinara along the Nepal Tarai ; 
the ■Vajjians, a confederation of eight clans of which 
the chief were the Licchavis of Vaisali and the Videhas 
of Mithila ; the Kosalas whose kingdom dm-ing this 
period included Sravasti in Nepal on the one side and 
Benares on the other with Saketa in the middle; the 
Kasis round modern Benares ; Maghada round Patna 
including in it southern Behar up to Bhagalpur on the 
Ganges ; and Anga with its capital Champa not far 
from Bhagalpur. 

It is clear from the above that so far the southern 
expansion had come up only to the Godavari. This 
is not inconsistent with the state of things portrayed 
in the Eamayana, which nowhere mentions an Aryan 
kingdom nor an Aryan settlement of any importance 
beyond Janasthana along the upper reaches of the 
Godavari. The political feature of this period is the 
struggle for supremacy between the neighbours, the 
Kosalas and the Magadhas. The Saisunagas parti- 
cularly under Bimbisara and his patricide son Ajata- 
satru were successful in expanding Magadha to include 
Vaisali and the Licchavi country and keeping Kosala 
well within bounds. It was during their rule that 
Eajagriha was fortified and the capital changed to 
Vaisali. It was a successor of Ajatasatru, by name 
Udayana, who enlarged his predecessor's fort of Patali- 
pura into the great capital of jNIagadha. The fall of 
this great dynasty was, however, at hand and was 
probably brought about by dissensions within and 
invasion from without. The invasion of Chanda 
Pajjota ^ (PradhySta) of Ujjain must have weakened 

1 This is the father of Vasavadatta, Queen of Udayana of Ko^ambhi. 
It was this Idng who is described in the Brihat KathS as Chanda 
jMahasena. That the two refer to the same king is clear from 
Priiiaiarsilca. 



poEus y 

the State much and a palace revolution did the rest. 
The Saisunagas were overthrown and the Nandas came 
to power. The ill-gotten power lasted for two gene- 
rations only, and the Nandas, in turn, were over- 
thrown by Chandragupta Maurya. 

It is while this revolution in politics was gradually' 
working out in the middle kingdoms that the western 
frontiers were thrown into confusion by the advent of 
•one of the world's conquering heroes. Starting from 
Macedonia, the young champion of Hellenism, Alex- 
ander the Great, marched eastwards combining with 
the warlike instincts of the general the insatiable 
■curiosity of the explorer. Meeting with feeble resist- 
ance on the way across the empire of Persia, he 
marched along the left banks of the Kophen (Cabul 
river) and crossed the Indus somewhere above Attock, 
with the friendly hospitahty of Omphes of Taxila, whose 
jealousy towards his powerful neighbour Porus threw 
him into the arms of Alexander. It cost Alexander 
a great effort of skill and daring before he could take 
the hill fort of Aornos (identified with Mahaban). This 
done he marched down the Peshawar plain to the 
banks of the Jhelum. Here at last he met his match. 
P5rus was after all worsted ; but so far compelled 
Alexander's admiration, as to get his kingdom restored 
to him. It was probably extended, under the viceroy 
Philip. Alexander's further advance upon the Magadha 
kingdom was prevented by a mutiny among his troops, 
and he had to turn back, never to return. Having 
been thus baulked in his attempt to bring about Alex- 
ander's intervention, Chandragupta was able to levy 
troops in the Punjab among the several war-like tribes, 
and brought about the revolution which, thanks to the 
exertions of the most astute diplomatist of the times 
Chanakya (or Kautilya or Vishnugupta), gave him the 
kingdom of Magadha. The accession of this iirst 
Maurya is placed in the year ■■V21 n. c. and provides 



10 ANCIENT INDIA 

ns with the first reliable date in the history of India. 
During the first decade of his reign, he was able so- 
far to organize his resources that he was master of 
Hindustan up to the frontiers. Porus was assassinated 
in the meanwhile. It was in 30.5 b. c. or a few years 
earlier that one of the most promising among Alex- 
ander's generals, who had made himself ruler of Asia 
after his master's death, attempted the conquest of 
the east. This time the east outmatched the west. 
Seleucus Nicator (the victorious) had to agree to a 
humiliating treaty, giving up to Chandragupta Alex- 
ander's eastern viceroyalty under Philip, i.e. the country 
of Afghanistan. 

After this, Chandragupta's empire stretched from the 
mountains running across Afghanistan to the Bay of 
Bengal, and from the Himalayas to the Vindhyas. 
This vast empire was organized on the time-honoured 
basis of local autonomy, with the condition attached 
of providing contingents to the imperial army and of 
acknowledging supremacy. No other closer arrange- 
ment could have been made on account of mere 
distance alone. The empire might have lasted on, if 
only the members of such a federated empire under- 
stood each other better and had acted up to the 
agreements entered into, or in the absence thereof, had 
consulted the common interests of all. This perhaps 
was too much in advance of the times to expect. 

Chandragupta's successor Bindusara followed in the 
wake of his predecessor and considerably added ta 
the empire. He entrusted the two important frontiers 
to his two sons, the eldest being viceroy of the north- 
west at Taxila, while the younger, the more famous 
As5ka, was the viceroy at Vidlsa (Bhilsa) of the- 
Dakshinapatha. 

From Bindusara we pass on with pleasure to his 
son Asoka, the Constantine of India. Asoka was- 
viceroy of the then most difficult frontier when his 



ASOKA 11 

father died. Asoka had to assert his claim as against 
an elder brother, the viceroy of Taxila, and overthrew 
him at last. Having thus got the throne, he began 
his reign in the manner of both of his predecessors. 
His only acquisition to the empire, however, is ex- 
plicitly stated to be Kalingam, the Mahanadi Delta, 
and Orissa. The rest of the Dakshinapatha must 
have been conquered and brought under, while yet 
his father was alive. Passing over the Buddhist 
delineation of the character of Asoka, almost as the 
evil principle incarnate, we find him accepting Bud- 
dhism, after his conquest of Kalingam, out of remorse 
for the bloodshed, on account of which he is said to 
have given up Brahmanism in which he was born. 
The merciful doctrines he taught, the hospitals he 
built both for man and animal, the interest he took 
to send the Gospel of the Enlightened far and wide, 
and the pains he bestowed upon the collecting and 
consolidating of the teaching of the Great One are 
matters of common knowledge. In spite of the great 
changes that had taken place, the administration of 
the empire went on in the time-honoured method, 
with little change of principle though the personnel 
changed. This empire now extended in the south 
into Mysore, and the southern frontier may be re- 
garded as about 12° N. lat. Along the frontiers of 
this vast empire and particular places within it, he 
cut on rocks and pillars his own instructions to his 
officials and people. Besides this, he erected innumer- 
able stupas or topes to hold the remains of the great 
Arhats. These are the material most reliable for his 
history. His missionary enterprise carried the teach- 
ings of the Buddha at least to as far as Syria. 
From his own edicts we learn that he negotiated 
with five kingdoms along the southern frontier. They 
were, Chola, Pandya, Kerala, and Satiyaputra in India 
and Cevlon close to it. At the westernmost extremity 



12 ANCIENT INDIA 

of Asia and eastern Europe his influence prevailed. 
He entered into diplomatic relations with Antiochus 
of Syria, Ptolemy II of Egypt, Magas of Gyrene, 
Antigonus Gonatas of Macedonia and Alexander of 
Epirus. According to Professor Mahaify, Buddhist 
monks preached in Palestine and Syria a couple of 
centuries before Christ. He is said to have sent 
84,000 missionaries to different parts of India and 
dominions beyond. Among them, his brother and 
sister (or son and daughter) he sent to Ceylon. 
Having done the best he could to further Buddhism 
and having ruled his vast empire in the most humane 
spirit possible, he resigned the responsibilities of this 
earthly existence to weakling successors. 

Asoka was followed by four successors and the 
dynasty came to an end by the accession to the 
empire of the Senapathi Pushyamitra, the founder of 
the so-called Sunga dynasty. He is believed to have 
assassinated the last Maurya Brihadratha on the occa- 
sion of a review of the army. There appears to have 
been a loyalist in the person of the minister, the 
Maurya Sachiva^ of the Mdlavikdgnimitra, which after 
all is better authority for the period, as Kalidasa 
claims to base his facts upon others' accounts which 
may have been contemporary, as we have reason to 
infer. This usurpation was not unchallenged from 
outside. Pushyamitra could hardly have secured his 
position when he was threatened by two great enemies 
from without — Menander (Milinda of Buddhistic tradi- 
tion) from across the north-western frontier and Kara- 
vela, the Kalingaraja from the south. Having laid 
waste the country as far east as even Saketa (possibly 
that in Oudh) and besieging Madhyamika (near Chitor 
in Eajaputana), Menander retired and no other Euro- 

1 This according to the drama was a brother-in-law of the king of 
Vidarbha, who demands his release of Agnimitra. The commentary 
makes Maurya Sachiva almost a proper name. 



PUSHTAMITBA 13 

pean attempted the conquest of India from the land 
side ever since; nor any at all up to the days of 
Vasco-de-Gama. It is a part of this army, according 
to Vincent Smith, that was defeated by Prince Vasu- 
mitra on the banks of the Sindhu between Eajaputana 
and central India and not on the banks of the Indus. 
This appears a needless limitation of authority for one, 
who thought of celebrating a Eajasuya and who had 
his son Agnimitra, viceroy of Malva. 

Pushyamitra got the upper hand of even the other 
enemy of Kalinga, which appears to have kept at 
peace with the empire since the conquest of Asoka. 
Pushyamitra's was the age of the grammarian Patan- 
jah, and from his time there was a revival of Brah- 
manism. There appears to be no foundation in fact 
for regarding him as a persecutor. Agnimitra, while 
yet his father's viceroy, had conquered Vidharba, the 
modern Central Provinces, and placed it under two 
kings of the same family subsidiary to himself. 

Brilliant as Pushyamitra's achievements were, they 
did not avail much to keep his dynasty long in 
power. The Punjab and the north-west frontier were 
in a state of flux, and those pulsating movements 
began among the great Mongol tribes on the Chinese 
frontier, which were soon felt on the banks of the 
Indus. A domestic revolution subverted the dynasty 
of the Sungas after three generations, and there was 
a line of rulers of the Kanvayana family for less than 
half a century. This in turn was overthrown by the 
Andhras, a purely South Indian dynasty of the Dravi- 
dians, whose territory occupied the region between 
Kalingam and the Krishna. 

The overthrow of the Brahman Kanvas and the 
accession of the Andhras in '27 B. c. mark an epoch in 
Indian history. It opens to our view India south of the 
Vindhyas which hitherto remained a terra incognita. 
We shall have to treat of Indian history hereafter 



14 ANCIENT INDIA 

in three compartments, namely, that of Hindustan up 
to the Vindhyas, that of the Dekhan between the 
Vindhyas and the Krishna, and that of India south 
of the river Krishna. 

The age of the Sungas and the Kanvas was to 
Hindustan the age of Sanskrit revival and there 
appears to be some historical foundation for the tradi- 
tion which places a Vikramaditya at the latter end of 
this age. It was at the same time an age of domestic 
■revolution. The ebb in the fortunes of the kingdom 
of Asia under the descendants of Seleucus was felt in 
Central Asia, and it was communicated thence to 
India. After the successful invasion of the east, 
Antiochus the Great fared badly in the contest he 
had brought on himself from the Bomans. Under his 
immediate successors, two kingdoms came into exist- 
ence, the Parthian under Arsakas and Bactria under 
its own Greek viceroy. This viceroy whose indepen- 
dence had been recognized tried to extend his territory 
eastwards and was himself overthrown by a usurper. 
This latter carried arms up to and perhaps even 
beyond the Indus and was assassinated by his own son. 
It was his successor Menander who invaded Pushya- 
mitra's dominions and had to draw back because of the 
movements among the Sakas who themselves moved 
because of the Yueh-chi beyond ousting them. It is 
these Sakas that marched into India and founded king- 
doms in the Punjab and the lower Indus, perhaps 
under the Parthian suzerainty of Mithridatis I. These 
^akas appear to have been finally beaten back and 
jgave their name to Sakastan (Seistan). In this enter- 
prise a ruler of Malva distinguished himself. He was 
the patron of Kalidasa and his name has been handed 
down to us by a grateful people as that of the saviour of 
India. There still were Sakas or Kshetrapas on the 
right bank of the Indus and of these we shall have to 
.speak in the section on the Dekhan. 



KANISHKA 15 

The Sakas of the Punjab were overthrown by a 
branch of Yueh-chi about a. d. 50, and with the first 
rulers of the dynasty this part of India came into touch 
with Eome on the one side and China on the other. 

Third in succession in this dynasty of Gandhara 
is Kanishka, famous in Buddhist history and one of the 
most powerful of Indian emperors. Scholars disagree 
regarding the actual date of the accession of Kanishka 
and his successors, but all agree as to his greatness. 
He was more successful in an invasion of the neigh- 
bouring parts of Chinese territory, where his prede- 
cessor failed and was able to hold his own against the 
Parthians. His fame rests, however, upon his accept- 
ance of Buddhism and his successful attempts to make 
the ' middle country ' of China accept it. After a 
successful reign, when his frontiers extended to Patall- 
pura on the one side and touched the Parthian and 
Chinese Empires in the west and north and the 
sea in the south, Kanishka died or was assassinated 
by a discontented army about tbe middle of the second 
century a. d. Two or three of his successors continued 
from Peshawar to rule this empire which, up to the 
very last, appears to have included the country from 
iluttra on the east to Cabul in the west. When 
the last of them, Vasudeva, passed away the empire 
broke up about the first quarter of the third century. 

To turn now to the Dekhan. Among the powers 
mentioned as under the empire of Asoka we find the 
Andhras, who appear to have been then along the 
east coast. They develop {gradually, expanding west- 
wards so as to occupy all the Dekhan from sea to sea. 
In the decadence that followed the death of Asoka, 
the Andhras seem to have had their own share, and 
they may possibly have helped Karavela of Kalinga, 
when he invaded Magadha in the middle of the second 
century B.C. When the Kanvas were overthrown the 
Andhras extend their power northwards and occupy 



16 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Magadha, having had their flank protected by the hills 
and rivers from the Yavana invasions of Menander. 
During all the transactions described in the last section, 
the Andhra power in the interior was unaffected ; and 
these had to be active only on the west where the 
Kshetrapas or the Saka Satraps of the Parthians were 
pushing their arms southwards. The Andhras had to 
counteract this and do so by making Paitan an alter- 
native capital to Dhanakataka in the east. 

The later rulers among them showed themselves quite 
successful against these Sakas, particularly Vilivayakura 
II ' (the Baleokuros of the Greeks) . He was able to 
beat off the Kshetrapas from the south, where their 
power went as far down as the Malaya country along 
the coast. His son followed in' the wake of the father, 
and after two more generations the dynasty came to 
an end, about the same time the Kushana rule died 
out in the north. 

On the south-eastern side of the Andhras we see 
a new power rising, namely, that of the Pallavas, 
regarded the same as Pahlava or Parthiva (Parthian). 
The earliest records of these come from places far 
north of Kanchi which, later on, became the capital of 
the Pallavas. The Pallavas have not yet come to be 
a political factor. 

South of this region we find a number of petty 
States, and farther south still the three kingdoms of 
Chola, Pandya and Kerala and beyond these Ceylon. 
These Powers appear to have actively helped the Andhras, 
as each of these States (at least certain rulers among 
them), claim to have defeated ' the Aryan forces '. A 
somewhat later Tamilian ruler of Kerala, with his capital 
at modern Kranganore, claims to have beaten some princes 
' on the banks of the Ganges.' These three States 
had their own local rivalries, and as history opens upon 

I Called Gotamlputra Satakarni by some historians, 



INTEEEEGNUM 17 

this part of the country, the Cholas are in the ascendant. 
This ascendancy passes to the Chera or Kerala ruler 
when we reach the end of this period, that is about 
the end of second century a. d. This period all known 
circumstances point to as the era of great Tamil 
literary activity and the development of the local 
prakrits — among the latter Paisachi. It is in this 
language and under the Andhras that Gunadya composed 
his Brihat Katha. 

It is an unfortunate coincidence that in Indian 
history the century following is enveloped in mist as 
regards all the three regions into which we have divided 
the country. When again the mist lifts, the Pallavas 
are found dominant in the south ; the Chalukyas occupy 
the Dekhan and the Guptas are prominent in the north. 
Thus there appears to have been a great interregnum 
in India, which may be accounted for somewhat as 
follows. The great Arsakian dynasty of Parthia was 
making way before the Sassanian Persians. The rise 
of this new power in Persia put pressure upon the 
Sakas of Seistan, who perhaps moved eastwards to 
join their cousins along the lower Indus and Guzerat. 
This must have thrown the whole western frontier in 
confusion. From this salient angle the Sakas, among 
whom there might have been some Parthians, pushed 
themselves eastward into Malva and southward into 
the Dekhan. This puts an end to the Dekhan power. 
A similar incursion into the Punjab would overthrow 
the Kushana dynasty there. When we come upon the 
Guptas, we find them just at the place where, under 
the circumstances, we ought to expect resistance to 
the advance of this aggressive power. The next Dekhan 
power is the Chalukya, in the south of the Bombay 
Presidency, about Bijapur. It is also perhaps out of 
this confusion there arises the ' foreign Pallava ' State 
in the Nellore District. This aggression provokes re- 
sistance and the organizer of the general resistance 
2 



18 ANCIENT INDIA 

rises up out of the struggle. With respect to South 
India, the Chera ascendancy is questioned by the united 
Chola and Pandya, and these wear out each other. 
This leads to the break-up of one empire into a number 
of petty principalities, which fall an easy prey to the 
rising PaJlavas. 

"When the light of day breaks in upon the theatre 
of our history at the beginning of the fourth century 
A. D., there is a wedge of the Sakas driven in between 
Jthe Dekhan and Hindustan. These Sakas, known in 
this region the Kshetrapas, had already overthrown the 
-Andhras of the Dekhan and were in secure occupation 
■of the land of Vikramaditya — Malva with its capital 
Ujjain. These had been continually here from the 
heginning of the Christian era and, getting eventually 
^the better of the Andhras, they had become a great 
Power under the greatest of their rulers Eudradaman. 
One of the records bearing upon the history of this 
ruler's reign throws a curious light upon the times. 
Armies passed and repassed and dynasties rose and fell, 
but the peaceful pursuits of the agriculturist and the 
artisan went on undisturbed. The grant has reference 
to the repairing of a tank, by name Sudarsana, con- 
structed in the reign of Asoka, but damaged owing to 
a breach. This was repaired under Eudradaman and 
adequate provision was made for its up-keep in the man- 
ner usual in the country, foreigner as he was in that 
region. But for this sensible continuity of administra- 
tive policy, the evil consequences of the rapid succes- 
sion of invasions would have been immensely more 
detrimental to the country. 

It was in the region set over against Malva that the 
next great Indian Power comes into being. A certain 
officer, possibly of the Andhras, by name or title, Gupta, 
had a petty province in and about Kosambi south-west 
of Allahabad. His son passed away unnoticed also. It 
was the grandson Chandragupta, who became the 



SAMUDEAGUPTA 19 

founder of a dynasty. His period of rule was certainly 
a golden age in Indian history. Chandragupta married 
a Licchavi princess of Vaisali, which gave him such 
influence and, what is more, such powerful aid that he 
was able easily to make himself the ruler of what was 
ancient Magadha. He not only beat back the advanc- 
ing tide of Kshetrapa aggression in central India, but 
also uprooted the power of these ^aka rulers. Having 
made himself so far successful, he founded an era in 
A. D. 319, known as the Gupta era. Chandragupta's 
reign was devoted to securing what under the Mauryas 
was Magadha. Having been happily so successful in 
this, he had also the discernment to join with him m 
this work of empire building his eldest son Samudra- 
gupta, the Napoleon of India. 

Samudragupta well deserves the comparison. He was 
not only a great conqueror but also a capable adminis- 
trator ; and both the father and son were skilled in the 
fine arts. Samudragupta is described as a ' riipakrit ' 
which scholars interpret as a dramatist. The word 
ordinarily means a sculptor. He seems to have early 
conceived the idea of uniting the whole of India into 
one empire, and this idea he began to put into practice 
with all the uncompromising zeal begotten of confi- 
dence in his capacity. Leaving in the extreme east, 
Kamarfipa (Assam), Davaka (middle) and Samatata (the 
Delta) independent allies upon his eastern frontier, he 
conquered the whole of Hindustan excepting the Punjab. 
(His father Chandragupta carried his conquests up to the 
Arabian sea). This done he started on a career of con- 
quest to the south. Starting from Patna, he passed 
rapidly through the Mahanadi valley down the east coast, 
coming up to Kanchi in the south where the Pallavas 
had already made themselves secure. Taking a turn 
to the north-west, he passed through the Maharashtra 
country and Khandesh and entered his territory again. 
From the eleven kingdoms he passed through, he 



20 ANCIENT INDIA 

exacted allegiance but otherwise left them autonomous. 
He then entered into satisfactory political engagements 
with the autonomous tribes of the Punjab, Eajputana 
and Malva ; and with Nepal and the tribes along its 
borders. Not content with this, he not only entered 
into diplomatic relations with the Kushana rulers of 
the Ghandhara and Kabul, but also with the chief 
Kushana ruler on the Oxus. In the south he received 
a mission from Meghavarna of Ceylon, who requested 
permission to build a Buddhistic monastery at Gaya. 
Having achieved so much, he got his exploits set in the 
best Sanskrit verse and inscribed it upon an Asoka pillar 
now at Allahabad. What was mere vanity in Samud- 
ragupta is comfort to the historian. He was succeeded 
by his son Chandragupta Vikramaditya who, through 
an equally long reign with his father and grandfather, 
preserved the grand fabric of empire handed down to 
him, and made his reign so glorious that scholars now 
find it the most suitable to ascribe to the traditional 
Vikramaditya. With the Guptas, Brahmanism and 
Sanskrit literature take a fresh start, though Buddhism 
was not persecuted as such. 

If the ambassadors of the Ceylonese king are to be 
trusted, Buddhism seems to have already decayed 
considerably. Somewhat later, however, the Chinese 
pilgrim Fa Hian visited the country, and passed across 
the whole of Hindustan from Taxila to the mouths of 
the Ganges. His observations are all the more valuable, 
as they were those of a man who notes them only by 
the way. If Fa Hian is to be believed Buddhism was 
not in such a bad way. The whole administration 
was very creditable and criminal law was mild, capital 
punishments having been few. There appears to have 
been nothing harassing in the Government. People 
enjoyed a large measure of freedom and considerable 
wealth. Private benefactions were large and the whole 
country wore a look of great prosperity. The roads 



THE GUPTA EMPIRE AND THE HUNS 2] 

were well looked after and kept clear of marauders ; and 
through all his long journey Fa Hian was not subjected 
to any molestation whatever, Buddhist though he was. 
The Guptas were Yaishuavas, but like Indian monarchs 
their benefactions were distributed alike among all reli- 
gions in the country. Tolerance may be a virtue or a 
weakness; but the most powerful Hindu dynasty was 
tolerant in the highest degree. Fa Hian spent a num- 
ber of years in learning Sanskrit and was rewarded 
by gaining valuable Buddhist works in that language. 
In the reign of Chandragupta Vikramaditya, that 
great scourge of the world, the Huns, broke in upon 
the Gupta Empire as they did upon the Eoman 
Empire. Skandagupta his grandson not only repaired 
the mischief done to the empire in the reign of his 
father Kumaragupta I, but also beat back the Huns. 
But a later invasion of these made him fall back, and 
the Huns under Toramana established themselves in 
Malva, and the country in the north-west, having 
overthrown the Saka rulers of Gandhara by the way. 
It was as a result of this mishap to the empire that 
Guzerat separated under Senapati Bhattaraka, who 
founded the Vallabhi dynasty which lasted on till they 
were overthrown by the Muhammadan invasions about 
A. D. 770. Although the empire was divided the ruler of 
Malva Yasodharman and the Emperor Baladitya, now 
confined to Magadha, both defeated Mihiragula, the 
fiendish son of Toramana. Mihiragula was taken 
prisoner, but was restored by the magnanimity of 
Baladitya. He lived to hand down his name to pos- 
terity, as an infamous tyrant of Kashmir, a despoiler of 
temples and monasteries ; as one who cultivated cruelty 
almost as a fine art. With the continued incursions of 
these Huns the Gupta Empire comes to an end. Before 
taking leave of this empire it is but doing justice to 
a great dynasty of emperors, who not only built an 
empire, but took great pains to administer it upon 



22 ANCIENT INDIA 

the most enlightened principles, despotic as their 
authority was, to quote a small passage from Fa Hian 
regarding free hospitals, which were due perhaps to 
the influence of that humane predecessor of the 
Guptas, Asoka. These hospitals were endowed by 
benevolent and educated citizens. ' Hither come all 
poor or helpless patients suffering from all kinds of 
infirmities. They are well taken care of and a doctor 
attends them, food and medicine being supplied accord- 
ing to their wants. Thus they are made quite com- 
fortable, and when they are well they may go away.' 
Comment would be superfluous. The overthrow of 
the Guptas brings Indian history to almost the end 
of the sixth century A. D. 

Turning to the Dekhan, during the period the dis- 
integration that came upon it in consequence of the 
successful wars of the Malva Kshetrapas continued, 
and the whole region was broken up into a number 
of petty principalities. "When Samudragupta undertook 
his great invasion of this region, it was composed 
of eleven kingdoms, possibly more. Even then the 
western half remained a little more compact having 
been divided between Daivarashtra and Erandapalla, 
corresponding respectively to the modern Maharashtra 
and Kandesh. It is from the former that the first 
powerful dynasty works its way up. During the period 
of the later Guptas, when they were engaged in that 
death grapple with the Huns, the Chalukyas gradually 
occupied the territory of their northern neighbour and 
pushed down the Krishna to occupy the country since 
known as Vengi. Here they come into touch with 
the Pallavas, with whom they had to maintain per- 
petual war along the borders. 

The farther south was also getting consolidated 
under the new rulers, the Pallavas of Kanchi. When 
Samudragupta came to the south, Vishnugopa was the 
ruler of Kanchi. His successors at Kanchi gradually 



THE THREE POWERS 23 

annexed other Pallava States in the neighbourhood, 
and expanded southwards, adding the smaller States 
between the dominions under Kanchi and the Chola 
and Kerala kingdoms. Along the banks of the Krishna 
then these rising Pallavas had to keep vigilant, as 
against the Chalukyas. The accession of the Pallavas 
marks the rise of Brahmanism in the south, and these 
Pallavas were great temple-builders and patrons of 
Tamil literature, for some of the earliest of the rock- 
cut temples dedicated to Siva and Vishnu belong to 
this period. 

When we emerge out of this formative period. States 
re-form in India, and the whole country falls into 
three well-marked divisions, namely, the empire of 
Hindustan under the supremacy of Thanesvara, the 
Dekhan under the Chalukyas, and the farther south 
under the Pallavas. These shall be taken in this 
order, as it was during this period that there were 
a few Chinese pilgrims, chief among whom was Hieun 
Thsang. Xot only this ; we have also more of indi- 
genous historical material to hand ; to mention only 
a few — Bana's Harshacharita, inscriptions of all the 
three, Xandikkalambakam, the Prabandhas of the 
Vaishnavas, the works of the Saiva Adiyars, etc. 

It will preserve chronological continuity to begin 
with South India first. The Pallava power from the 
northern frontier of this region proved a bulwark 
against the advancing Chalukya power. About A. d. 500, 
while the Gupta emperors were engaged in fighting 
the Huns, the Pallavas had become the chief southern 
power ; while the Dekhan also had been united under 
Kirtivarman and his brother Mangalisa. When 
Mahendra Pallava's death leaves the Pallava dominions 
to his son Narasimhavarman, one of the greatest 
among the dynasty, the Chalukya Power simultaneously 
passes to the greatest among them Pulikesin II. The 
accession of these princes to power took place about. 



24 ANCIENT INDIA 

the same time that a certain combination of circum- 
stances brought about the accession of Harshavardhana 
Siladitya of Thanesvar, later on of Kanouj. "We must 
now turn to this ruler. 

Out of the confusion caused by the incursions of 
Mihiragala, the Hun king of Sagala (the capital of 
ancient Madra Desa), there arose, in the line of march 
of the enemy and in the far-famed region of battles 
where more than once the fate of India was to be 
decided, a chieftain by name Prabhakaravardhana, who 
was connected by marriage with the imperial Guptas. 
Prabhakara beat back the Huns through his two 
valiant sons, the elder Eajyavardhana and the younger, 
a lad of fifteen, Harshavardhana. The latter com- 
manding the rear, while his brother marched ahead, 
was still in the region below the mountains on his way, 
when he heard his father was taken ill and returned. 
The elder soon followed, having crushed the enemy 
and placed the frontier in a condition of safety. 
Prabhakara died and was succeeded by his eldest son, 
who heard of a misfortune^[that befell his only sister 
Eajyasri married to Grahavarman of Magadha. The 
latter had been killed by the ruler of Malva and 
Bajyasri had been thrown into prison. Eajyavardhana 
marched upon Malva, and having defeated the king 
of that country, was on the march homeward when 
he was entrapped by Sasanka of Bengal. Eajyavar- 
dhana was assassinated by Sasanka and Eajyasr! ha.d 
to escape to the Vindhyan forests to save herself. 
Harshavardhana appears to have been unwilling to 
accept the responsibility of rule, but he had to do so 
all the same. 

His first task was to go in search of his sister, 
and find where she was, which he soon did and just 
saved her from death. He then turned to Sasanka 
and reduced him to subjection. This done, he set to 
himself the task of rebuilding the empire, as it was 



HAESHA 25 

under the Guptas. Throughout a comparatively long 
reign he was constantly engaged in war for about 
thirty years, and brought the whole of Hindustan under 
his sway, his authority having been acknowledged by 
the Brahminical ruler of Kamarupa (Assam) and the 
6aiva ruler of Bengal on the one side to the far off 
Vallabhi and Kashmir at the other extremity. In 
one direction a limit was set to his arms, and so his 
achievement fell far short of his ambition, which 
was probably that of Samudragupta. Harsha under- 
took an invasion of the Dekhan, but the Vindhyan 
passes were so well guarded by Pulikesin of the 
Dekhan that Harsha was actually defeated. Like 
many another great man he recognized the limitation 
to his own capacity and acquiesced in this defeat, 
as he never again made any other attempt on this 
side. Thus, having reconstructed an Empire of 
Hindustan, he turned his attention to maintaining this 
empire. 

It was during the later part of his reign that Hiuen 
Thsang, the great master of the Law from China, 
travelled in India. He found the administration of the 
empire as satisfactory as his predecessor of a couple 
of centuries ago had done, except that the land and water 
ways were not so secure as in the age of the Guptas. 
The emperor was constantly on the move and his 
camp was almost a moving city. Criminal justice 
appears to have been prompt, but somewhat severer 
than in the previous age. There was a regular 
system of official records, although none of these 
have come down to us. Harsha, a great scholar and 
poet himself, gave a stimulus to learning, and, ac- 
cording to the Chinese scholar, education appears to 
have been widespread. In his court, and under his 
direct patronage, poets flourished in such numbers 
that his name ranks among typical patrons of letters. 
By nature or by education, he appears to have been 



26 ANCIENT INDIA 

extremely tolerant.* His eclecticism was much like 
that of Akbar ; but latterly, and through the influence 
of Hiuen Thsang, he leant more and more to the 
Mahayana school of Buddhism. The great Buddhist 
festival he celebrated at Kanouj and the toleration 
feast he held at Allahabad show that he entertained 
very broad and enlightened views upon religion. 
Although he had to carry on wars incessantly for 
thirty years, he seems to have been led into war out 
of sheer necessity, rather than of a taste for it. The 
stories regarding his acts of persecution have to be 
considerably discounted. When he passed away in 
A. D. 648 he does not appear to have left a proper 
successor. A minister of his Arjuna usurped the empire. 
The usurpation proved a failure, through the inter- 
cession of a Chinese ambassador. Harsha sent a Brah- 
man as ambassador to China. When this ambassador 
returned, China sent a return embassy under Wang- 
Hiuen-t'se. When this latter arrived the usurpation 
had taken place. The usurper illtreated the ambassador 
who fled to Tibet for protection. Returning with 
Tibetan help, he overthrew the usurper, and thus came 
to an end the last Hindu empire, of Hindustan. 
During the centuries following A. d. 700 up to the 
Muhammadan conquest, there never was built up 
another empire of any duration and the want of a 
central power accounts for the conquest, with compa- 
rative ease, of India by the Muhammadans. 

At about the same time also came to an end the 
great Pallava Power in South India. Since adminis- 
tering the check to Harsha, Pulikesin had to grapple 
with the Pallava Narasimhavarman, the builder of the 
cave-temples at Mamallapuram, the seven pagodas. 
One of the Pallava generals, marched up to the capital 



1 This is the age and Benares the place where Sankaracharya is 
believed to have written his Bhashyam. 



EMPIRE-BUILDING 27 

of the Chalukyas at Badami and destroyed it so com- 
pletely that there was an interregnum of thirteen 
years after Puhkesin. His successors, however, often 
carried the war into the Pallava territory, the northern 
frontier having been undisturbed. It was to maintain 
peace on this Pallava frontier that Pulikesin organized 
a separate viceroyalty at Vengi under his brother, who 
in his turn became the founder of a dynasty. 

A sad calamity overtook the Chalukyas about the 
latter half of the seventh century a.d. This was the 
overthrow of their dynasty and the usurpation of the 
Chalukya Empire by the Eashtrakutas, with their 
capital farther, and therefore safer, from the Pallavas. 
This gave the Pallavas a little respite; but after the 
temporary occupation of Kanchi by the Eashtrakuta 
Vairamegha, the Pallava Empire breaks up into smaller 
States, from out of which the great Chola Empire 
is eventually to rise. 

Amidst all this ceaseless flux of the political units 
that constituted India through all these ages, there 
stands out one fact, namely, that whenever great 
empires were in existence, such as the Maurya or 
Gupta or even that of Harsha, India enjoyed not only 
internal tranquillity and the blessings of a good 
administration, but also security on the frontiers. 
Whenever this imperial unity was wanting, it follows 
as unmistakably that the anarchical elements inside 
asserted themselves. This state of division invited an 
invader, and he was readily forthcoming, so that if 
there is one feature which can be said to be the 
dominant feature of the history of India during the 
millenium ending A. D. 700, that feature is the attempt 
to build a permanent empire. In spite of all these 
disturbances there still was a good measure of peace and 
plenty in the country, and what follows, as a necessary 
consequence thereof, considerable success in making 
life not only tolerable but comfortable. The literary 



28 ANCIENT INDIA 

and artistic achievements of the period are things we 
may well be proud of; and this has been due entirely 
to a broad outlook into the future by our ancestors. 
It is only to be regretted that they did not discover 
a method of reconciling the opposing principle of local 
autonomy with imperial unity. This accounts for all 
the ills that followed. 

The history of Hindu India has a unity of its own, 
if only the material available be used constructively. 
This unity would become the clearer, if we could but 
bring together all the available information. It is every 
day becoming more and more possible, thanks to the 
exertions of orientalists, to write such a history. 



CHAPTER II 
HISTOBY OF SOUTH INDIA 

A GOOD map of India, will show very clearly that 
India, south of the Himalayas, falls naturally into 
three divisions, namely, the river plains of Hindustan in 
the north, the plateau of Malva Dekhan in the middle, 
and the plains below the Ghauts bounding the Dekhan 
plateau. Historically each of these natural divisions 
may be treated separately. Hindustan has a history 
of its own, coming into touch with that of the Dekhan 
only at particular epochs. The Dekhan has its periods 
of history quite distinct from that of Hindustan ; while 
the history of South India and that of the Dekhan 
come into contact much oftener, and the general move- 
ments of both regions show a great deal more of 
connexion and interaction. The reason for this state 
of things is not hard to understand. In the early 
dawn of history in India, between the first two divi- 
sions there was an impenetrable forest called Maha- 
kantara (or the great forest) flanking the Vindhyas, 
and proving with them a great barrier to the freedom 
of movements of the population. With respect to the 
Dekhan and the south there has never been any such 
barrier either of mountain or forest. Hence it is we 
are justified in treating of the history of this part of 
India — India south of the Vindhyas — as one whole, 
though it is possible and often necessary to treat it in 
compartments. 

The history of peninsular India begins, then, some- 
what later than that of Hindustan ; for the Dravidian 



30 ANCIENT INDIA 

civilization of the south, though much more ancient 
than its history, owes its history to Aryan immigration, 
as much as does north India. This immigration of 
the Aryans took place certainly much later than Vedic 
times. Of the period that intervened between this 
immigration and the beginning of historical times in 
south India, we have but few traces of evidence, and 
these are more often indirect than direct. 

The first definite mention of kingdoms in the south, 
which can be accepted as historical, undoubtedly is 
that in the thirteenth edict of Asoka. This we have 
to regard as the historical starting point, until the 
chronology of the Puranas and the Epics are settled 
beyond doubt. Even as such we have to come down 
to the Christian era for any detailed knowledge of 
South India. 

For this knowledge we are more dependent upon the 
so-called auxiliaries to history than any history we have, 
even of the chronicle kind. The evidence is to be found 
in the monuments of human industry and art, and the 
inscriptions that have come down to us on coins, metallic 
plates, or upon stones. The inscriptions do not take us 
very far, and the information contained in them, though 
reliable and often clear, is not quite so full as one 
would wish they were. The monuments have begun 
to be studied only recently, and, so far, the results 
they have yielded, though quite satisfactory, are not 
full enough. There is much to be done here before 
results can be achieved. The traditionary evidence 
is of a different character. It is far fuller, though very 
careful sifting is required before any reliance can be 
placed upon it. These traditions may be grouped into 
ethnography and folklore, and literature. The customs, 
habits, and the various and varying practices of the 
people tell their own tale, not only in regard to the 
movements of the people and their change of habitat, 
but also give us the clue to their history. 



PERIODS OF SOUTH INDIAN HISTORY 31 

The literary tradition is often more fixed and perhaps 
more reliable, though again considerable care has to be 
bestowed in the collection, classification and evaluation 
of the evidence. On a general consideration of these 
various items of information so far available, the history 
of South India would fall into six periods : — 

(1) Early period — to the fifth century a. d. 

(2) Pallava period — fifth to ninth century a. d. 

(3) The Chola ascendancy — ninth to fourteenth 

century a. d. 

(4) The ascendancy of Vijayanagar— fourteenth to 

sixteenth century a. d. 

(5) The Musalman-Maharatta period — sixteenth to 

eighteenth century a. d. 

(6) The British period — eighteenth and nineteenth 

century A. D. 
Corresponding to this there are for the Dekhan: — 

(1) Andhra period — to fifth century a.d. 

(2) Early Chalukya period — fifth to seventh, and 

Eashtrakuta — seventh to tenth century a.d. 

(3) The later Chalukya period — tenth to fourteenth 

century a. d. 

(4) Vijayanagar. 

(5) Musalman-Maharatta. 

(6) The British period. 

The earliest period of South Indian history, in con- 
tradistinction to that of the Dekhan, depends entirely 
upon literary evidence. In fact for the first period 
there is nothing else except for a few Asoka and 
Satavahana records. Even Satavahana history depends 
in great part upon the accounts given in the Puranas 
— chiefly the Matsya, Vishnu and the Vayu. So far, 
therefore, as the movement of political power is con- 
cerned, South India and the Dekhan were marked off 
respectively as the spheres of the Satavahanas and ' the 
three kings ' and several (seven according to Tamil 
literature) chieftains. The kings are respectively Chera, 



32 ANCIENT INDIA 

Chola, and Pandya ; and the chieftains have their strong- 
holds on hillocks, like the doorgs of the Palayagars of 
a later generation. The region specially remarkable 
for these chieftaincies was the hilly strip of country 
running through South Arcot, Salem, and Coimbatore 
districts, at the foot of the ghauts where they move 
out to meet each other. Kanchi was the head-quarters 
of one, Tirukoilur of another, Anji, Kari, and Ori belong 
to the Salem district ; Pehan, Evvi and a few others to 
Madura and Tinnevelly; while Amur (Ambur) and 
Vellore belonged to yet another chieftain of Mavilangai. 

There was some commercial activity during this time, 
although the period must have been full of wars as well. 
Happy confusion prevailed in matters religious, a single 
street often containing shrines sacred to the bright bene- 
ficent Vedic deities and the blood-thirsty and vengeful 
devil worship. Alongside both of these are the quiet 
abodes of the holy ones of the Jains and the Bud- 
dhists as well. There appear to have been the rudiments 
of good government, mostly in some sort of self govern- 
ment, and justice was administered with even-handed 
impartiality. The authorities present to us, no doubt, 
idealized picture of the state of society ; but behind 
the work of art it is easy to discover the bed-rock of 
fact. There seems to have been more unity in societj% 
and the hard hidebound exclusiveness (which is only too 
apparent now), does not find much vogue. Buddhist 
and Jain influences are at work ; but the worship of 
Siva and Vishnu seem to carry the largest clientele. 

This old order changeth yielding place to new, and 
we find instead a struggling body of warring political 
atoms. From out of this struggle arises the great 
Pallava power, and we pass into the second period. It 
often appears that the history of India, before the British 
supremacy was established, can be considered only as 
a perpetual struggle to found an empire. Eegarded 
in this manner, the establishment of that European 



A GEEAT LANDMAEK 33 

power would be the natural result of the political 
evolution of the country as a whole. This view seems 
to be clearly right with respect to South India in 
particular, and thus can be seen a parallelism in Indian 
history to that of Greece in pre-Macedonian times. 

At the commencement of the first of these periods the 
Cholas are in the ascendancy. They give place to the 
Cheras, who in turn make room for the Pandya. The 
Pandya supremacy passes away and the Pallavas rise 
into importance. The latest scientific estimate of the 
age of all these vicissitudes is the fifth century ; hut 
there is a volume of evidence in favour of pushing this 
period back a few centuries. Here the investigation 
will have to go hand in hand both in Sanskrit and 
Tamil. This is not the place nor the occasion for an 
elaborate exmination of the connexion between the two 
languages, but it must be remarked in passing that one 
of the earliest Tamil Kavyas is based on the BriJiat 
Kathd of Gunadya, who flourished in the court of a 
Satavahana at Paitan. This gives us the ultimate lower 
limit ; while the fifth century would be the ultimate 
upper limit for this period of efflorescence of Tamil. 

There is one great landmark between the first period 
and the second, and that is the invasion of the south 
by the great Samudragupta. He came south down to 
Kanchi and then turned north-west from it. The 
contemporary of this Gupta was VishnugSpa of Kanchi, 
which name figures among the early rulers of Kanchi 
in the Pallava records. With them we come upon 
firmer historical ground. Simultaneously with these 
rise into importance the early Chillukyas, in the region 
that had, in the earlier period, been in the possession 
of the Satavahanas. These latter had to maintain 
their possessions as against the Kshetrapas, first from 
Guzerat and then against them from Malva. In this 
struggle they were finally overthrown, and it is from 
amono the feudatories of these Satavahanas that the 
3 



34 ANCIENT INDIA 

Chalukyas rise. The Andhra or Satavahana rule is 
characterized by ahnost the same social features as the 
farther south ; but in point of religion they seem to 
have been great patrons of the Jains and Buddhists. 
Trade guilds and commercial corporations seem to have 
been in existence ; and a brisk commercial intercourse 
appears to have been maintained both with the interior 
by way of land, and with the outer world by way of 
water. The Prakrit dialects seem to have been culti- 
vated with care, and the Paisachi Briliat Eathd is 
evidence of this culture. Prathishtana (Paitan), Patri, 
Vallabhipatan, are said to have been great marts and 
ports of exit for commerce on the west coast ; 
while equally important in the east and south were 
places like Tamralipti, Kataka, Tondi, Puhar, Korkai, 
etc., on the Coromandel ; Cranganore, Tondi, Vaikkarai 
on the Arabian Sea Coast. Other places referred to 
are Kataha, Sambahava and some islands, and regions 
about the Persian Gulf. 

Through the centuries of its sway, the Satavahana 
dynasty had its power extending from sea to sea, 
and we are not quite sure how it actually passed out 
of existence. The usual break-up probably followed, 
a great external impact, and when again we gain a 
glimpse we see the Chalukyas well on their way to 
hegemony in the Dekhan. From a. d. 500 to 750 we 
find the Chalukyas and the Pallavas constantly at war. 
The Pallavas gain the upper hand and destroy the 
capital of the Chalukyas at Badami about a. d. 640. 
In consequence there is an interregnum for thirteen 
years. During the next two generations the Pallavas 
suffer similar disasters from the Chalukyas. Kanchi 
has often to stand siege and even suffer occupation by 
an enemy. The constant wars on the Pallava frontier 
wear them out, and an internal revolution does the 
rest. The Chalukyas fall and the Eashtraktitas rise in 
their place. The Pallavas attempt to assert their inde- 



PALLAVA ASCEMDANCY 35 

pendence ; but the attempt is frustrated by the energetic 
action of the Rashtrakuta Dantidurga Vairamegha. 
With this passes away Pallava greatness, and their 
territory becomes broken up into a number of chieftadn- 
cies, the first of these being overthrown by the Chola 
Aditya before a.d. 900. This same ruler of the Chola 
dynasty also overthrew the Kongu country, and thus 
began the Chola empire in the Dekhan. 

The period of Pallava ascendancy is remarkable in 
many ways. It was the period of great religious activity,, 
when Buddhism had to give way before the rising tide 
of Pauranic Hinduism, both ^aiva and Vaishnava. 
According to Mr. Venkayya the earliest Pallavas of 
the Prakrit records were Buddhists ; the next ones 
were Vaishnava and the last ones Saiva. This was 
also the period when cave-temples, and other temples, as 
well, came to be constructed in large numbers. There 
was also considerable activity in literature. Many of 
the Tamil classics that we have at present have to be 
ascribed to this period. In the Dekhan also there was 
similar activity, the Kailasanatha temple at Ellora 
having been built during the period. 

When the Pallava power broke about the end of 
the eighth century a.d., and the Cholas were beginning 
to rise, South India was divided in pohtical allegiance, 
the border line passing through the fringe of the 
plateau. Just in the region where we are, there was 
the dynasty of the Gangas ruling over the plain districts 
of Mysore, with their capitals at Kolar and Talakad at 
different times. The Pallavas and Pandyas seem to 
have been at war, which ended in the complete over- 
throw of the former. The Pandya activity in the 
north received a check from the Ganga feudatories of 
the Eashtrakutas in a battle fought so far out as 
Tirupparambiyam near Kumbhakonam. The Pandya 
Varaguna had to withdraw, and this was the time 
propitious to the rise of a new dynasty of enterprising 



36 



ANCIENT INDIA 



rulers, such as the Cholas were. They rise into pro- 
minence no doubf by the acquisition of the Pallava 
and the Kongu kingdoms. This latter acquisition brings 
the Cholas into touch with the Rashtrakntas through 
their southern feudatories the Gangas. The Eashtra- 
kutas and the rising Cholas go to war. Krishna III 
of the former dynasty is so far successful that he is 
in occupation of Kanchi. Later on Eajaditya, the son 
<of Parantaka I, falls in a battle fought in a. d. 949-50 
with a Ganga feudatory, Butuga ; and this for a time 
■checks the rising tide of Chola aggression. About a 
quarter of a century thence the Kashtrakutas fall a 
victim to a domestic revolution, and a scion of the 
western Chalukyas rises into importance. This revo- 
lution gives the Cholas the requisite leisure to organize 
their resources, and when they reappear under Eaja- 
raja they are already a great power. The Chalukyas 
similarly have a succession of able and energetic 
rulers. The plateau becomes the debatable frontier 
between the two powers, and this struggle conti- 
nues for six or seven generations, with varying suc- 
cess, until at last the Cholas and the Chalukyas mark 
off their spheres of influence as it were. The Cholas 
remain below the Ghats, and the territory in the 
plateau remains nominally under the Chalukyas. The 
end of this struggle — a battle royal between two 
equally matched powers — well organized and with great 
resources — brings into prominence a number of feuda- 
tory states, chief among which have to be mentioned 
the Yadavas of Devagiri, the Kakatiyas of ^^'arangal, 
and the Hoysalas of Dvarasamudra. In the south 
the chiefs of minor principalities rise into importance ; 
but the leading part is taken by a succession war for 
the Pandya throne, in which the Ceylonese on the 
one hand, and the Cholas and their feudatories on 
the other take part. This civil dissension contributes 
to weaken all parties, the Cholas fall, and the Pandyas 



AGE OP HINDU PEOGEESS 37 

and the Hoysalas fight for the quarry, as the Hoysalas 
and the Yadavas did before on the break up of the 
Chalukya Empire. At the time that Marco Polo was 
sailing along the Indian coast, Narasimha Hoysala and 
Sundara Pandya were ruling in the south ; the Yada- 
vas were under Eamadeva, and the Kakatiyas under 
Pratapa Eudra II. It was into this world of South 
India thus politically divided that Ala'u'd-din Khilji 
broke in. When next his general, Malik Kafur, under- 
took a more systematic raid into the south, the king- 
doms were ia a high state of decay. They were 
all crashed and the Musalman stood arbiter for a 
time. 

This is the period of high watermark of Hindu pro- 
gress all round. Modern Hinduism assumes the shape 
in which we find it to-day. The indigenous literature 
as well as the classical Sanskrit receive considerable 
patronage and blossom into full maturity to pass into 
artificiality. Religion has, been readjusted to the re- 
quirements of the masses, and administration had come 
to be highly organized upon surprisingly modern lines. 
Revivalism in religion and re-invigoration was the 
order of the day. It is upon a \^-orld so situated that 
the flood wave of Muslim incursion broke in, over- 
turning everything. As in natLire so in politics action 
provokes re-aclion against it. This incursion, and the 
consequent confusion and apprehension, provoked local 
re-action, wherever there were local ruling families. 
The Muslim outposts are beaten in and the empire 
is in no position to assert its authoiitv. The Idcal 
efforts are gathered up in the foundation of a large 
and united Hindu Empire known to history as that 
of Vijianagar. This empire lasts from the middle of 
the fourteenth century to the end of the sixteenth, 
when in its turn it falls before a coalition of the 
Musalman kingdoms of the Dekhan. The two chief 
Musalman States of Golkonda and Bijfipur divide the 



38 ANCIENT INDIA 

south between themselves, the Karnatic Balaghat going 
to the one, and the pa'in ghat to the other. In the 
former, arises the kingdom of Mysore, and in the 
latter the Nawabship of Arcot. Happily the first one 
remains to-day under its native ruler, though under 
the aegis of the British Empire ; while the other is 
represented by a titular scion of the family thus 
founded. It is this other that gave the occasion for the 
European merchant companies to drop their quills 
and try the sword. It is this pleasant diversion of 
some of the Company's clerks, be it by accident or 
by design, that was the small beginning of that great 
political phenomenon — the British empire in India 
as we see it to-day. It is these attempts, which have 
never ceased to be made from the beginning of history, 
that have culminated in the empire that for the first 
time holds sway from the ' Eoof of the World ' to 
Cape Oomorin and from the Mekran coast to the 
Mekong val!ey. 

No attempt has been made in this chapter to trace 
the history of South India on any large scale — a task 
of the greatest magnitude and difficulty. I have only 
attempted to indicate the many issues, both principal 
and subsidiary, that would require careful study and 
investigation. There is room for much good work on 
all these periods, the earlier more than the later 
generally. The first is a virgin field for any explorer, 
while much yet remains to be done in the second. 
The periods intervening the brighter epochs are so far 
a mere blank The history of these intervals of 
darkness could be worked out by a study of the places 
where local chieftains flourished ; while the Pallava 
period has to be worked up by a study of the Ganga 
and other dynasties coeval with the Pallava. There is 
much useful work to be done along the lines indicated, 
and work, too, that would be all the better for the 
co-operation and co-ordination of individual effort. 



THE MYTHIC SOCIETY 39 

The Mythic Society of Bangalore has been ushered 
into being and will provide the requisite common plat- 
form, and under its auspices I have every hope that 
individual workers will not be long in coming forward 
to lend their assistance. 



CHAPTER III 
STBUGGLE FOB EMPIRE IN SOUTH INDIA 

From the dawn of history, empire has been a problem 
of such importance that a talented historian, Maspero, 
has named his history of the Tigres and Euphrates 
valley, during the second and third millenniums b. c, 
The Passing Away of Empires. This has been the 
case with empires ever since Pericles played his noble 
role of empire-building on the stage of Athenian 
politics down to our own times, characterized by 
imperialism as represented by Chamberlain and Cecil 
Rhodes. So far as India is concerned this has been 
the problem from the days of Chandragupta — nay even 
from the days of the Mahdbhdrata — to the compara- 
tively late times of Mahadaji Scindia. It is a common 
complaint of historians that in Indian history there 
is no central argument round which to marshal facts 
so as to present a connected and consistent whole. 
This, no doubt, is true to a certain extent and the 
Hindu period of Indian history has, in consequence, 
been given the distinguishing epithet ' formative ', that 
is, the period when States were in process of formation. 
I would rather give this distinction to the earlier part 
of the Hindu period ; and characterize the later one 
'the struggle for Empire'. It was in this struggle 
that the States that had been formed were brought 
into a larger union with the inevitable tendency to 
break up. Empire is after all a compromise between 
the opposing principles of local autonomy and imperial 
unity. AVhile for a time one of the two rival principles 



THE THEEE DIVISIONS 41 

may be in the ascendant, the other is always in 
existence to take advantage o£ any weakening in it. 
This, in essence, has been the case with Indian 
empires, with the distinction that personahty played a 
far move prominent part than the principle underlying 
it. This latter peculiarity it is that makes the struggle 
assume in India the appearance of a rise and fall of 
dynasties, without much affecting the even tenor of 
life of the people, or their civilization. 

India has through historical times been divided into 
three distinguishable geographical parts despite much 
historical unity. These are Hindustan, the Dekhan 
and the farther south. Before the establishment of 
the British empire these parts had each a distinct 
history of its own and were never, more than tempo- 
rarily, united into a consistent whole. There occasion- 
ally arose great rulers like Asoka or Samudragupta, 
who made an attempt at welding them into one, but 
the attempt was practically successful only for their 
lifetime. Asoka's boundary in the south was a line 
drawn from Pondicherry to Cannanore and the parts 
outside it lay beyond his authority. With regard to 
Samudragupta it was even less — his claim to authority 
over the Dekhan States having been one of sufferance 
rather than of actual rule. He claims to have con- 
quered the States of the Dekhan and to have restored 
them to the defeated rulers. So it is possible to con- 
sider the history of any one of these three geographical 
parts by itself, and without reference to the other 
two. Thus I can now give a summary of the struggle 
for empire in the south between the rulers of the 
Dekhan and of South India. 

The earliest known historical reference to these is 
in the inscriptions of Asoka where he refers to the 
Chola, Pandya, Kerala, Satiyaputra and the ruler of 
Ceylon. But of the actual state of the country or of 
its rulers we know but little ; but from literatui'e 



42 ANCIENT INDIA 

(Tamil) of an ancient character we may gain a glimpse 
of the political condition of South India in the early 
centm-ies of the Christian Era. It is then that we 
see, as I have pointed out in the chapter on the The 
Augustan Age of Tmnil Literature, that States were 
formed by the amalgamation, mainly by conquest, of 
the smaller communities into the larger kingdoms, 
so that at the beginning of the Christian Era we 
find three well-defined and compact kingdoms of the 
Chera, Chola, and Pandya. These lay claim to having 
overcome the Aryan forces, and thus perhaps indicate 
their having played a not unimportant part in the 
wars of the Dekhan rulers against the northern inva- 
ders, the Kshetrapas of Guzerat and Malva. The 
Dekhan contemporaries of the three crowned kings of 
the south (Chera, Chola, Pandya) and the seven chiefs 
were the Andhrabbrityas. Of this dynasty the most 
distinguished rulers were Gotamiputra Satakarni and 
his successor Pulimayi or Pulomavit. These beat back 
the Kshetrapa Nahapana from the south and kept his 
successors confined to Guzerat and thus saved the 
south. The territories under their rule included the 
present Nizam's Dominions and the Maharashtra, with 
their capitals at Guntoor (Dharanik5t or Dhanakataka) 
and, at Paitan on the Godavari. The constant refer- 
ences in Tamil literature to Karikala Chola's erecting 
his tiger-emblem on the Himalayas, and the father of 
Senguttuvan's having had for his northern boundary 
the Himalayas, would warrant the inference that they 
carried their arms successfully towards the north. 
The more so as Karikala is said in the Silappadki- 
kdram, to have received presents (tributes as they are 
called) from the rulers of Malva (Avanti), Bundalkhand 
(Vajranadu) and Magadha. It would thus appear that 
the struggle for empire had already begun, and this 
probably continued for a couple of centuries, when we 
see the Andhrabbritj-a power going out of existence. 



SHIFTING OF POLITICAL POWER 43 

So also in the south \yg lose the thread, and we 
have barely any mention of a great ruler. There is 
thus a hiatus in the available records which would 
indicate an anarchy consequent on the fall of the 
greater Pov/ers that held sway. This anarchy was taken 
advantage of by the rising power of the Guptas, who, 
under Samudragupta and probably under his father, 
conquered the Dekhan States, and restored them to 
their former rulers, perhaps, as a matter of policy. 
This state of vassalage could not have lasted long, and 
from out of this anarchy there arose two great 
Powers, the Pallavas in the south and the Chalu- 
kyas in Maharashtra. These two dynasties, with their 
capitals respectively at Kanchi and at Badami (near 
Bijapur), continued the same struggle for empire and 
were seen fighting constantly on the Tungabhadra- 
Krishna frontier. As a consequence of this perpetual 
antagonism, we see the Chalukyns, following the ex- 
ample of the Andhrabbrityas, create a frontier province 
with head-quarters at Rajamahendri. This was done 
by the great Chalukya Emperor Pulikesin II, who made 
his younger brother the viceroy. That this was a wise 
measure and was called for by the necessity of the case 
is amply borne out by his great enemy Narasimhavar- 
man Pallavamalla's attacking Badami and burning it 
down, so as to cause an interregnum of thirteen years. 
These two great rulers were the imperial contemporaries 
of the Chinese traveller, Yuwan Chwang (Hieun Thsang), 
and of his host Horshavardhana Slladitya of Kanouj. 
This was about the middle of the seventh century 
after Christ. A little after the end of that century, 
both these powerful dynasties wore out each other so 
thoroughly that they went out of existence and gave 
way to others to take their place in the I)ekhan 
and in the south after the inevitable anarchy. We see 
about this time the political centre of gravity shifting. 
The rising ESshtrakiita power is on its trial and not 



44 ANCIENT INDIA 

merely has to make good its claim ; but it also has 
to contend against factions within the camp. Now it 
was the role of the Gangas of Mysore to extend their 
territory northward and southward. In this latter 
direction they received a check from the Pandyas under 
Varaguna, who turned back the Gangas after inflict- 
ing a defeat on them at Tirupparambian near Kumba- 
konam. The Pandya was too far off to defend the 
Mysore frontier against the Gangas and not long after 
this we find the Eashtrakutas tightening their grip 
upon the Mysore country, and putting their southern 
frontier in a state of defence, at a time when a new 
power comes into being immediately to the south of 
Mysore. 

This was no other than the great Chola dynasty, 
whose inscriptions in large numbers give us an insight 
into their greatness and the political condition of the 
times. Taking their origin somewhere in the Tanjore 
district (near Pudukotta) they mastered possession of 
the Chola country ; and when the third in succession, 
but the first great ruler, Parantaka came to the throne 
about A. D. 900, their authority extended over Chola, 
Tonda and Kongumandalam. It was he that fought 
against and beat back aggression on the Pandya, 
Kerala and Ganga frontiers. When he passed away 
in the middle of the century, he left to his sons the 
wars all along the northern frontier. It is now that 
the Chola fortunes fell so low that the Eashtrakuta 
ruler, Krishna III, was m occupation of Kanchi for a 
while, and that Eajaditya, the Chola ruler, for the 
time being, was slain in a battle at Takkolam about 
A. D. 950, chiefly through the exertions of Perumanadi 
Biltuga, the Ganga feudatory of the Dekhan rulers. 
About a twenty years after this, the Eashtrakutas were 
overthrown by a scion of the Chalukyas, and the 
confusion in the Dekhan was the opportunity for the 
Cholas of the south. While yet the Chalukyas were 



EAJAEAJA, THE GREAT 45 

struggling to make good their newly acquired position, 
the Cholas began to recover so well that, when the 
great Chola, Eajaraja the Great, ascended the throne 
in A. D. 985, he found himself in possession of the 
Chola, Tonda and Kongumandalams, and he had to 
iight the Keralas on the west coast and the Gangas 
in their own country. This latter power was over- 
thrown about the year A. d. 1000, tlianks to the exertions 
of this great Chola, ably seconded by those of his 
greater son Eajendra, the Gangaikonda Chola, so that 
the debatable frontier hereafter was Yedatorenad, 2000. 
"While the son was thus fighting to establish peace on 
this frontier, the father had vastly added to his empire 
by a stroke of policy in the north by the addition of 
the whole of the eastern Chalukya kingdom of Vengai- 
mandalam. 

This kingdom beginning as a viceroyalty under Kubja 
Vishnuvardhana, the younger brother of Pulikesin II, 
the Chalukya, continued to acknowledge allegiance to 
the Chalukyas, probably till these latter were over- 
thrown. Then the eastern kingdom continued in com- 
parative peace till the Cholas made their frontier 
contiguous to the eastern Chalukya frontier. Eajaraja 
now gave his daughter in marriage to Vimaladitya, 
and restored the conquered kingdom to his son-in-law, 
who was only too glad to have the powerful Chola 
to help him in case of attack either from the west 
or from the north. The eastern Chalukya territory, 
it must be said to the credit of the far-seeing policy 
of Eajaraja, remained ever after faithful fo the Cholas 
and continued an integral part of the empire. 

When Eajaraja died in A. D. 1013, he left behind 
him to his son, the Gangaikonda Chola, practically 
the whole of the Madras presidency except Madura 
and Tinnevelly. Only the Chalakya frontier was in 
dispute. The son had to fight on this frontier and if 
his inscriptions can be taken as unpimeachable evidence 



46 ANCIENT INDIA 

he secured it. He sighed for new worlds to conquer 
in his own small way, and carried his arms successfully 
across Kalingam (Ganjam), etc. He fought battles on 
the Ganges and in Burma, earning thus the high- 
sounding surname of the Gangaikonda Ohola, the magni- 
ficent ruins of whose capital at Gangaikonda-Solapuram 
(in the Wodlyarpalayam taluka) attest his greatness 
to this day. When in his turn the Gangaikonda Chola 
(the hero of the Kanarese Eajasekhara Vilasam), had to 
leave his earthly empire to his son Eajadhiraja in 
A. D. 1042, the frontiers were all aflame in revolt, and 
this condition of the Chola empire was made the worse 
by the Chalukya ruler of the time having been a 
great warrior. 

Three generations of rulers had lived and passed away 
in the seven and a half lakh country ^ of the Chalukyas 
and their exertions left the empire quiet in all other 
directions except that of the Chola frontier. On this 
frontier there was constant war even in the days of 
Eajaraja and his son, so that, when Somesvara Ahava- 
malla ascended the throne of his fathers A. d. 1044, 
he had to continue the work of his father and grand- 
father. Meanwhile Eajadhiraja had had time to intro- 
duce order into his own empire, and to bring the 
revolted frontiers back to their allegiance. "When the 
warrior-king Somesvara broke in upon him Eajadhiraja 
was ready to meet him. The wars were long and 
wearying and the results were often doubtful. They 
made at last a resolute attempt to decide once for all 
this debate of arms, and the result was the great battle 
fought in the year a.d. 105'2 at Koppam on the Tunga- 
bhadra. Eajadhiraja fell in it and, for the time, victory 
was with the Chalukyas ; but Eajendra, the younger 
brother of the Chola, brought up reinforcements and 
retrieved the fortunes of the Cholas and thus earned 

1 This refers either to the revenue, or to the number of villages. 



SOMESVAEA AND THE CHOLA BROTHERS 47 

his title to be crowned on the field of battle. Now 
began the battle royal between the contending rulers 
which was not to end for a couple of generations, 
and, when it did, it had worn out both parties so 
much that the empires were ripe for breaking up. 
Eajendra Chola II was able during his reign to 
invade the Chalukya dominions themselves, and lays 
claim to having erected a pillar of victory at Kollapuram 
(Kolhapur). One unlooked for consequence of these 
long and wearisome wars was the advent into promi- 
nence of a number of great chieftains, who begin- 
ning as pillars of empire eventually proved, in their 
successors, its destruction. Having had to fight over 
the wars of his elder brother again, and having to 
maintain the Chola arms and prestige strenuously during 
his time, as against the Chalukyas, Eajendra died in 
A. D. 1060 or 1061. His younger brother Virarajendra 
assumed the imperial purple and along with it the 
responsibilities. He was already a handy man for 
the heavy work. One of the Mysore Inscriptions thus 
speaks of him and his rule — ' a new ruler ! A kingdom 
fit for a hero ! Now is the occasion for us '. 

The Chalukyas were busy on the frontier. Between 
Virarajendra and Someswara several battles were fought 
in the Ceded districts. The Chalukyas regarded Kol- 
lippakkai somewhere in the Chitaldroog district as the 
door of the south and appointed the most trusted 
official to guard this region. At the accession of 
Virarajendra the whole of the Mysore country — the 
three divisions composing it, namely, Gangavadi, Nolam- 
bavadi and Banavase, all but the last only nominally, 
was under the second but the most capable of Sdmes- 
vara's sons. Another son was not far off and had a 
viceroyalty in the Ceded districts with head-quarters 
at Kampli, and bearing the title Vengaimandalesvara 
without the territory to give him the title. It would 
appear from the inscriptions that the Chalukyas 



48 ANCIENT INDIA. 

advanced up to the Palar, from which river Virarajendra 
had to chase them back. After this the normal condi- 
tion of affairs was restored, and the five Chola invasions 
had for their objective the territory at the angle be- 
tween the Tungabhadra and the Krishna. Viraraja 
once occupied Kampli and planted a ' Pillar of Victory 
there' . 

The Chola claims to have won three times in battles 
at Kndal Sangaman at the junction of the rivers. In 
most of these Vikramaditya, the second son of Somes- 
vara, played a distinguished part. On the last occasion 
when the Chola was there, having accepted the challenge 
of Somesvara I, he had to wait long and neither 
Somesvara nor his army appeared. While the Chola 
was about to break up camp and move on, Vikra- 
maditya appeared at the head of his army and 
showed a readier incliuation to treat than to fight. 
This parleying ended in a treaty between the Chola 
ruler and the Chalukya prince who set the seal by 
taking the Chola princess as his wife. 

This change of front on the part of Vikramaditya 
has to be explained. While the Chola was waiting, 
Somesvara Ahavamalla died by drowning himself in 
the Tungabhadra as a result of an attack of a malignant 
fever. There wtis a change of rulers at Eajamahendri. 
Eajaraja Chalukya, the nephew and son-in-law of the 
Gangaikonda chola, had died leaving a son and a 
daughter. This son does not appear in the transactions 
immediately following Eajaraja's death. The western 
Chalukyas moved east, but Virarajendra was too 
quick for them. He won a victory at Bezwada 
(Vijayavadi) and appointed a brother of the late King 
as Viceroy at Eajamahendri. Virarajendra thus se- 
cured himself on this side of his empire and 
returned, sending out an expedition across Kalingam to 
Central India. In this political condition of his 
frontiers Somesvara Ahavamalla died, and his eldest 



vikramaditya 49 

son Somesvara Bhiivanaikamalla succeeded. Vikra- 
maditya did not wish to play the role of a lieutenant 
to his less distinguished, though elder, brother, but 
could not strike single-handed. Hence the inclination 
to enter into an alliance with the powerful Chola on 
the frontier. 

This done, Vikramaditya moved through the southern 
part of his brothers dominions to feel the temper of 
the greater viceroys of the empire. Some time in 
the coarse of this progress, Virarajendra died at Gangai- 
konda Solapuram the capital. This unsettled the plans 
of Vikramaditya who hurried there, set his brother- 
in-law on the throne and returned to his more direct 
sphere of activity. Soon after the new Chola ruler 
fell a victim to a revolution, and another young ambi- 
tious man was upon the Chola throne. Vikramaditya 
had to bide his time, and waited six more years 
before he thought he could venture upon his danger- 
ous career towards empire. The young man who as- 
cended the Chola throne in A. d. 1070 was no other 
than Kulottunga, the son of the Chalukya Rajaraja 
and grandson, through his mother, of the Gangaikonda 
Chola. He appears to have been brought up in his 
grandfather's house and seems to have distinguished 
himself, while yet a prince, in distant expeditions in 
central India. As Yuvaraja, he is said, in his in- 
scriptions, to have captured a herd of elephants at 
Vairagaram and to have taken Chakragottam. This 
latter is in the territory of Dhara where the great 
Bhuja had recently ruled, and it might have been that 
Kulottunga had to play a leading part in the expedi- 
tion sent out by Virarajendra. Virarajendra is said 
also to have sent an expedition to the Talaing country. 
As Yuvaraja of the Chalukya Eajaraja, Kulottunga 
could not have gone there. This is further borne out 
by ' Kulottunga's having uplifted the lotus goddess 
in the direction of the rising sun.' This could, perhaps, 
4 



50 ANCIENT INDIA 

be made to mean the Telugu country, which is not 
quite to the east of the Chola country. 

It would thus be clear, bearing in mind that the 
name of Kulottunga does not figure in the trans- 
actions after the battle of Bezwada, that Kulottunga 
spent his youth in the immediate entourage of the 
great Cholas. He appears to have been quite content 
to accept a lieutenancy from his uncles, but not from 
any of his cousins. Further there is nothing to 
connect Kulottunga with the revolution after "Vira- 
rajendra's death. This may have been the natural 
consequence of the Chalukya intervention, and Kulot- 
tunga merely reaped the benefit arising therefrom, 
having had reason to believe, as some of his inscrip- 
tions and the Kalingattupparani show, that he was 
adopted by the Gangaikonda Chola, though this latter 
had three sons to succeed him and another older than 
these who preferred quiet life to sovereignty. It 
was this Kulottunga who upset the calculation of 
Vikramaditya, and, under the circumstances of his 
accession, fought against Vikramaditya in his schemes 
of self-aggrandizement. 

Kulottunga had his own frontiers to quiet before he 
could think of Vikramaditya, and this respite on this 
frontier was taken advantage of by Vikramaditya 
to gain greater hold upon the Mysore country. In 
this he was successful in the main. When he, there- 
fore, thought his time had come to put his plans into 
operation, Kulottunga was ready. Somesvara Bhuva- 
naikamalla had reasons to suspect Vikramaditya, and 
this latter deemed it unsafe to reside at court. Vikra- 
maditya made up his mind, and with his brother Jaya- 
simha got things ready in the south against his elder 
brother and sovereign. Somesvara asked for help and 
Kulottunga gladly agreed ; but before Kulottunga could 
arrive Vikramaditya had won, and Somesvara was 
thrown into prison. This was in A. D. 1076. After an 



THE IMPERIAL RIVALS 51 

invasion or two of the Mysore country to wrest the 
southern half of it from the Cholas, and another into 
the Telugu country, Vikramaditya allowed matters to 
settle themselves in the frontier between the Cholas 
and the Chalukyas. Each of these sovereigns ruled 
over his respective empire for half a century, generally 
in peace. Vikramaditya sent out two expeditions 
across the Narbudda, Central India, (Dharaand Dahala), 
having been distracted by wars, civil and external, in 
the earlier part of his reign. He dispatched contin- 
gents to help rulers at such a great distance as 
Kamarupa (Assam). Kulottunga conquered and even 
colonized the south and west up to Kottaru near 
Cape Comorin, and subjugated the Kalingams (Orissa) 
through his general Karunakara Tondaman. 

Affairs on the Mysore frontier were developing fast 
for a final issue, and chiefly through the strenuous 
exertions of a Mysore chief, Vishnuvardhana Hoysala, 
and the warlike instincts of his general Gangaraja, 
Gangavadi and Nolambavadi were lost to the Chola in 
A. D. 1116 and only nominally added to the Chalukyan 
empire. This marks the beginning of the disruption. 
The southern viceroys who stood firm by the side of 
Vikramaditya in his wars against the Chola, and even 
in his usurpation, naturally expected the reward of 
their services in nominal allegiance, if not actual 
independence. This had to be acquiesced in and the 
ambition of some of these redoubtable champions of 
the prince, the aspirant to the throne, proved the 
bane of the emperor and his empire. Vikramaditya 
was, however, saved the humiliation of a break-up of 
the empire by the exertions of the loyal Sinda chief- 
tain, Achugi II of Gulburga (in the Nizam's Dominions). 
He defeated in a night attack at Kannegala the 
Hoysala forces and chased them back to Belilr, their 
head-quarters. Their allies in the revolt, the Kadambas 
of Hangal and Goa had also to find shelter in their 



52 ANCIENT INDIA 

strongholds. So when Vikramaditya died in A. D. 1126, 
the empire was left intact no doubt, but without 
chances of continuing much longer, unless it found 
a succession of very capable rulers, which the empire 
was fated not to have. 

Kulottunga was more fortunate. Doubtless he had 
to acquiesce in the loss of southern Mysore, but he 
acquired a hold upon Kalingam. What was more he 
had capable sons, distinguished in war and trained in 
administration to succeed him, when he died A. D. 1118. 
There were three successor.s who maintained the 
empire intact and when the Chola Empire fell, it 
fell from the impact of simultaneous Pandya, Kerala 
and Kakatlya invasions from the south, west and 
north. Both these emperors were great administra- 
tors, each in his way. They had perfected the Govern- 
ment, as it had been handed down to them, and were 
•otherwise patrons of letters. They adopted a policy 
■of enlightened liberalism in religion. After a couple of 
generations of weak rulers, the Chalukya empire was 
subjected to the double misfortune of disorganization 
and dissensions within, and the onset of a powerful 
invader without. This double calamity was averted 
by a man of genius Bijjala, who usurped the empire 
and infused some fresh life into it for a quarter of 
a century. The new power of the Kakatiyas of 
WarBingal was emerging into a great career, and the 
process of disintegration was going on, though, in the 
meanwhile, unobserved only by those whom it con- 
cerned the most. The Hoysalas pressed from the 
south, Yadavas from the north-west and the Kakatiyas 
from the east. The empire was dead and these shared 
the quarry. Like the Chola empire somewhat later, 
this empire was parcelled out among numbers of 
petty chieftains, who claimed independence, and had to 
maintain it by perpetual readiness to fight. At the 
commencement of the thirteenth century there stood 



MUSLIM INCUESIONS 53 

out the Yadavas of Deogiri, the Kakatiyas of Warangal 
or Telingana, the Hoysalas of Dvarasamudra, and a 
number of small chiefs in lieu of the great Chola empire 
and the Pandyas and Kerala. At the end of the first 
decade there broke in into this world south of the 
Vindhyas the great Muslim wave of invasion under 
Malik Kafur. Overthrowing in succession the great 
feudatory principalities of Deogiri, Warangal and 
Dvarasamudra, Kafur Malik advanced south as far as 
Rameswaram. Leaving small garrisons behind, he 
went back to mature his own plans of king-making 
and becoming king. The general movement against 
this occupation of the country by the Muhammadans 
culminated in the great Hindu empire of Vijaya- 
naggar. The garrisons were driven out and the 
threads of these isolated risings were gathered together 
by the genius of one man, who placed the head- 
quarters of the rising empire in the frontier outpost 
of the south to guard at least this last citadel against 
the Muslim conquest. This story, however, belongs to 
another period. 



CHAPTEE IV 

INDIA AT THE DAWN OF THE 
CHRISTIAN ERA 

India the wonderland of the east, as it is even now 
called, was made known to the west, when the world- 
conqueror, Alexander the Great, forced open her gates 
on the north-west. Our knowledge of India at all of 
a definite character may be said to extend no farther 
than this period, as, according to the most recent 
authority, his connexion with India was not much 
more than a great raid. It is matter of common know- 
ledge that he had to give up his idea of carrying his 
conquests right up to the eastern limits of the land, 
(according to his own notion of the configuration of 
the earth), owing to a mutiny among his soldiers 
headed by his cavalry commander Koinos. Before 
leaving India, however, he divided his conquests on 
this side of the Indian Caucasus into three vice-royalties 
as follows : 

I. Paropanisadae, the country west of the Indus, 
with Oxyartes, the father of Roxana, for its viceroy. 

II. The Punjab including in it the kingdom of 
Taxila, and that of Porus, that of the Sophytes 
together with the territories of the Oxydrachoi and 
the Malloi, under the viceroy Philip, son of Machetas ; 
leaving the civil administration in the hands of the 
native princes. 

III. Sindh including the kingdom of Mousikanos, 
Oxykanos, Sambus and Maeris of Patalene under 
Peithon, the son of Agenor, for its viceroy. 



THE FIRST EMPIRE 55 

Philip was murdered in a mutiny, before the death 
of Alexander, and his place was taken by Eudamos 
who remained in India till called away in 317 B.C. 
to help Eumenes against Antigonus of Asia, the most 
powerful among the Diadochi. When the Macedonian 
Empire was partitioned a second time in H21 b. c. 
(consequent on the death of Perdiccas, the regent of 
the lirst partition), the Indian province, east of the 
Indus, was left out of account, as Peithon had to 
withdraw to the western bank of the great river. 
About 305 B. c. Seleucus Xikator made an attempt to 
revive the empire of Alexander in this region, but had 
to relinquish his hold upon the whole of Afghanistan, 
and enter into a humiliaiing treaty with Chandragupta, 
the Maurya emperor of India. This personage is 
believed to have been in the camp of Alexander in 
the Punjab, and, thrown upon his own resources as 
the great Macedonian turned away from the banks of 
the Eavi, he took advantage of the confusion resulting 
from the departure of Alexander to overthrow the 
ruling Nanda in Magadha, and set himself up as the 
first emperor of India known to history. In the course 
of fifteen years he was able to make himself so 
strong as to fight Seleucus, not only on equal terms 
but also to extort from him such a valuable cession 
of territory as Afghanistan up to the Hindu-Kush. 
For three generations this dynasty held its power 
undiminished. His grandson Asoka, the great Buddhist 
Emperor of India, was able to hold his own with the 
successors of Seleucus, and maintained with them the 
diplomatic relations thus begun by his grandfather. 
It seems to be well attested that both Seleucus Nikator 
and Ptolemy Philadelphus had sent ambassadors to 
the courts of Chandragupta and Bindusara, although 
scholars are not wanting yet who consider the parti- 
cular edict of Asoka a mere boast. "With the death 
of Asoka about 230 b.c. the Mauryan empire loses its 



56 ANCIENT INDIA 

hold upon the more powerful and distant of its vassals, 
and the days of the dynasty are numbered. 

From this event to the year A. d. 319 the date of 
the rise to power of the Imperial Guptas, the history 
of India is yet quite uncertain, although we are able 
to gain a few glimpses as to the general features 
of the history of that period. The Asiatic empire of 
the Seleucidae was attacked simultaneously by the 
Eomans and the Gauls from the west and north- 
west, and the Parthians from the east. About the 
beginning of the second century B. c, Parthia made 
good her independence under Arsakes Mithridates I 
and Baktria under Eukratides.* This was but the 
reflex action of the movements of the nomad tribes 
in the far-off plains of Mongolia. The great tribe of 
the Hiung-nu fell, with all the fervour of neighbourly 
love, upon the Yuet-chi, and dislodged them from 
their then habitat in the plains of Zungaria. These 
in their turn fell upon the Wu-sung, killed the Wu- 
sung chieftain in battle, and marched further upon 
the region then in the occupation of the Se, Suk or 
Sakas. JThese last had to make room for them along 
the right bank of the Oxus and occupy the country 
protected by the Indian Caucasus. The Yuet-chi were 
themselves defeated by the son of the late Wu-sung 
chieftain. When his father fell in battle he found 
a secure asylum with the Hiung-nu, who now helped 
him to regain his lost patrimony. It was in the 
course of these movements that the Sakas and possibly 
some of the Hiung-nu moved down the Kabul valley 
into India, and occupied the country on the right 
bank of the Indus, right down even to Gujarat. It 
is one of their out-settlements on the Jumna that the 
coins and other antiquities of Muttra would seem 
to warrant. 

1 V. A. Smith, Early History of India, p. 210 S. 



SHIFTINGS Of POLITICAL POWER 57 

A\hile all this was taking place across the borders 
of India, in India itself there was going forward a 
revolution of no less consequence. The Mauryan empire 
was overthrown by Pushyamitra Sunga, the Mauiya 
general, in spite of the loyalist minister, a brother-in- 
law of Yegnasena Satakarni of the Dekhan. The 
usurper's strength was tried by a triple war : — (1) 
against Menander, ruler of Kabul; (2) against Karavela, 
the Kalinga ruler of Orissa ; (3) against the loyalist 
Yegnasena and in behalf of a counter-claimant to the 
throne of the kingdom of Vidharba. Though for the 
time successful against all these, the empire had suffered 
vital injuries. The Dekhan kingdom or viceroyalty 
becomes so posverful that the Andhras establish an 
imperial position themselves, and render their quota 
of service by holding out against the Saka invaders 
from the north-west and west. It must have been in 
the course of these wars that the occasion should have 
arisen for the founding of the era which now goes 
by the name of Vikramaditya, and that under the 
name of Saka. As to both these eras and the circum- 
stances of their origin, there is very considerable 
difference of opinion among scholars. In the course 
of the political shiftings described above, a clan of 
the Yuehchi, by name Kushana, was able to push its 
way into India and establish a kingdom in the Punjab 
including Kasmir. The greatest ruler among them^ 
whose empire came into touch with the Chinese 
Empire on the one side and the Parthian on the 
other, is Kanishka, the Constantine of the Buddhism 
of the greater vehicle (Mahayanism). Learned scholars 
associate him with both the eras above referred to,, 
while there are yet others, who would dissociate him 
from either and refer him to a period later than both. 
None of them, however, take him beyond the period 
I have marked at the beginning. At the very beginning 
of the Christian era then the Punjab and the frontier 



58 ANCIENT INDIA 

province, including Kasmir, were under the Kushanas 
or their immediate predecessors or their successors. 
Gujarat and Malva, including northern Konkan, were 
Tinder the Sakas. 

During the period marked out above, we have been 
passing from the supremacy of Buddhism (if such 
an expression can be regarded as appropriate at all), 
through a reassertion of the Brahman ascendancy, on 
to a final compromise, ending on the one side in 
Mahayanist Buddhism, and on the other in the 
Hinduism of the Gita. For as Professor Kern main- 
tains, on the authority of the Tibetan historian Taranath 
and the Saddharma-pundarika, the founder of the 
Madhyamika school of Buddhism, Xagarjuna was a 
disciple of the Brahman Kahulabhadra who was much 
indebted to Sage Krishna. Paraphrased, this means no 
less than that these teachers drew a part of their 
inspiration from the Gita.* This is borne out by the 
importance that attaches to Bhakti (devotion) in 
Mahayanist Buddhism and later Hinduism. 

During all this period of active mutations both in 
religion and politics, South India would appear to have 
been out of this great vortex. This is a delusion due 
more to lack of information than to a lack of history. 
The edicts of Asoka mention the Chola, Pandya, 
Kerala, Satiyaputra, and Ceylon, among those with 
whom he entered into diplomatic relations. He thought 
it worth his while to send his son and daughter to 
Geylon as missionaries. These facts put it beyond a 
doubt that there was some communication between 
Magadha and Ceylon, generally by way of the sea. 
•It cannot be that the neighbouring coast was not 
also brought into touch with the riorth. The edicts 
•of Asoka, found in the Chitaldroog district, make it 
certain that there was some connexion, and in all 

i Manual of Indian Buddhism , p. 122. 



MARITIME ACTIVITY 59 

likelihood by way of land, and by the east coast. The 
Ceylonese tradition, as embodied in the Muhavamsa, 
is quite in support of this conclusion. Between the 
Maharashtra and Malva there was a great trunk road 
notwithstanding the great forest region between them. 
This road it is that has given us the name Dakshina- 
patha (Dekhan). Most likely this road wound its way 
over the hills by way of Burhanpur into western 
Malva. The middle region was the forest, which it 
continued to be even up to the days of Harsha. 

During this period, and for a long time after, 
Hindustan (the country north of the Yindhyas), kept 
touch with the outer world by way of land mainly; 
the south kept itself in contact with the rest of the 
world chiefly by way of the sea. That the Hindus 
did not always wait for others to come to them for 
goods is in evidence in a variety of ways. There is, 
first, the statement of Cornelius Isepos, who says that 
Q. Metellus Celer received from the king of the Suevi 
some Indians, who had been driven by storm into 
Germany in the course of a voyage of commerce.^ 
This is quite a precise fact, and is borne out by a 
number of tales of voyages with the horrors attending 
navigation depicted in the liveliest colours in certain 
classes of writings both in Sanskrit and Tamil. Among 
the places mentioned in the latter classes of sources 
are those in the East Indian Archipelago, such 
as Java (Savaham), Sambhava (Karpiirasambhavam), 
Kataha (Sumatra), and Kalaham (Burma) not to 
mention China. It would thus appear that there was 
some very considerable activity in maritime commerce. 
They used to have lighthouses to warn ships and one 
such is described at the great port at the mouth of 
the Kavery, a big palmyra trunk carrying on the top 
of it a huge oil lamp. 

1 Macrindle, Ancient India, p. 110. 



60 ANCIENT INDIA 

On either coast were towns of great commercial 
importance. Beginning with the coast of the Arabian 
Sea and passing over the ports beyond the region of 
South India, the first town of importance is what thel 
classical geographers call Tyndis (Tondi) where Quilandy 
now stands. Opposite to it lies what was called 
Liuke (White Island) now going under the name 
Sacrifice Eock or ' Velliyan Kallu ' among the people. 
The Ophir of these geographers is located by some at 
the site of modern Beypore. South from this was the 
great mart of Muziris (Muyirikkodu, Kodungalur or 
Cranganur) the port of Vanji or Karur, the capital of 
the Cheras, with the river-mouth Pseudostomos (A]i- 
mukham or false mouth). This is the port to which 
navigators turned their course when, through the 
enterprise of Harpalos, the south-west monsoon was 
discovered. Passing this port we come nest to Bakare 
(Vaikkarai) the port of Nyeacinda in the territory of 
the Pandion of Madura (Nirkkunram in the kingdom 
of the Pandyans at Madura). After this the classical 
geographers mention only Cape Comorin (Kumari). 
Passing Kumari they lead us into the Argalic (Argali 
in Tamil, Mahodadi in Sanskrit) gulf, and thence into 
the port of Kolkoi (Korkai). It is here that the 
island of Taprabane naturally finds mention. The 
origin of this name for Ceylon has been the cause 
of very ingenious speculation. It is regarded by some 
as the equivalent of Tamraparni (the Tambapanni of 
the Baddhists). There is another derivation more 
fanciful than this, namely, tap Ravana as a corruption 
of dlpa Ravana. The more likely and much less 
ingenious origin would be dip Ruan, Euan being one 
of the kingdoms in the Island of Ceylon, about the 
beginning of the Christian era, according to the Mahd- 
vamsa ; and that the kingdom to which sailors should 
inevitably go from the Argalic gulf. Proceeding still 
further through the gulf these sailors came to the 



POLITICAL GEOGRAPHY 61 

•eastern emporium of Tondi, the great mart for Chinese 
wares, and commodities from the Eastern Archipelago. 
Further north of this was Puhar at the mouth of 
the Kaverj- ; the next port of importance on this side 
was Maisolos as PHn}' calls it (Masulipatam).^ 

To take up the political geography of south India 
as a whole then, the country south of the Krishna 
was divided among ' the three crowned kings ' and 
seven chieftains, with an eighth coming somewhat 
later. It is the coast region and the more open 
country that belonged to the kings, while the middle 
regions of hills and forests belonged to the chieftains, 
and perhaps even a few tribes (Xagas and others). 
The east coast from near the mouth of the Krishna 
to the south of Tondi, in the Zamindari of Ramnad, 
belonged to the Chola, although midway between the 
kingdom proper and its northern viceroyalty of Kanchi 
lay the hill-country round Tirukoilur, in the posses- 
sion of a class of chieftains named Malayaman, very 
often lo3'al supporters of their suzerain, occasionally 
truculent and rebellious. South of the Chola king- 
dom lay that of the Pandya, which extended from 
coast to coast, and embraced within its borders the 
modern districts of Madura and Tinnevelli, and the 
State of Travancore, taking in also a part of Coimba- 
tore and Cochin. This included in it the chieftain- 
cies of Aay (the Aioi of Ptolemy) round the Podyil 
hill in the western ghats, and of Evvi round about 
the port of Korkai in Tinnevelli. There was besides 
the domains of Pehan round the Palnis, which comes 
under their sphere of influence as well. North of this 
and along the western ghats on the sea-side lay the 
territory of the Chera : a territory stretching right 
across the Palghat gap through Salem and Coimba- 

1 Kanakasabhai's Tamils, 1800 years ago, ch. iii and JIacrindle's 
Ancient India and Ptolemy. 



bli AXCIENT INDIA 

tore. South Mysore was parcelled out among a number 
of chieftains corresponding to the modern Palayagars, 
whose allegiance was at the disposal of either, but 
the more powerful, of their neighbour kings. Such 
were the Irungo of Arayam, Pari of Parambunad, 
Adiyaman of Tagadiir (Dharmapuri) and Ori of the 
Kollimalais. The first of these was within Mysore 
territory proper, and to the east of his domain lay the 
Gangas, and Kongu to the south. 

These chieftaincies were the bone of contention 
between the Cholas and the Cheras. When the period 
under treatment begins, the Cholas are supreme under 
Karikal, who ascended the throne, probably after 
defeating the Chera and Pandya in a battle at Vennil 
(Koilvenni as it is now called) in the Tanjore district. 
He was a remarkable sovereign who, in many ways, 
contributed to the permanent welfare of his subjects, 
and has consequently been handed down to posterity 
as a beneficent and wise monarch. He constructed 
the embankments for the Kavery, and his chief port 
Puhar was the great emporium of the east coast. 
His reign was long and, taken along with those of his 
two predecessors and the successor next following him, 
constitutes the period of the first Chola ascendancy 
in the south. In the reign of his successor a great 
catastrophe befell Puhar, and the city and port were 
both destroyed. This was a hard blow to the ascend- 
ancy of the Cholas. But Karikal had, after defeating 
his contemporary Chera, given one of his daughters 
in marriage to the son of his vanquished rival. This 
alliance stood the Cholas in good stead. Karikal's 
successor began his reign with a victory, which his 
heir-apparent won for him, against the Chera and 
Pandya combined, at Kariyar, probably in the Salem 
district. When Puhar was destroyed there was a civil 
war, owing perhaps to the untimely death of the young 
Chola prince ; and the Chera ruler for the time being, 



INDIA AKD CEYLON 6S 

advanced through the central region. He intervened 
in favour of his cousins with effect, as against the 
rival claimants of royal blood, and restored the Chola 
dynasty to some power ; but the ascendancy surely 
enough passed from them to the Chera. The Chera 
ascendancy under the Eed-Chera (^enguttuvan) lasted 
only one generation ; in the reign of his successor the 
Pandyas rose to greater importance and the Chera 
suffered defeat and imprisonment at his hands. This 
Pandya ascendancy probably lasted on somevs'hat 
longer till about the rise of the Pallavas in Kanchi. 
This course of the political centre of gravity of power 
in southern India is borne out in very important parti- 
culars by the Ceylon chronicle, called the Mahdvamsa. 
According to this work, the Cholas were naturally 
the greatest enemies of the Singalese rulers. There 
were usurpers from the Chola country in Ceylon in 
the first century B. c. ; and there were invasions and 
counter-invasions as well. On one occasion the Chola 
invaders carried away 12,000 inhabitants of Ceylon and 
set them to work at ' the Kavery ' as the Chronicle 
has it.' This looks very much like an exploit of 
Karikala, seeing that it was he who built the city 
of Puhar. King Gajabahu of Ceylon was present at 
the invitation of the Ked-Chera, to witness the celebra- 
tion of a sacrifice and the consecration of the teruple 
to the ' Chaste Lady ' (Pattiny Devi) at Vanji, on the 
west coast. 

The ascendancy of the Chera, however, passed away, 
as already mentioned, to the Pandyas in the course of 
one single generation. The Eed-Chera was succeeded 
by his son, 'the Chera of the elephant look', who was 
his father's viceroy at Tondi, and figured prominently 
in the wars of his predecessor in the middle region. 
He was defeated and taken prisoner in a battle, which 

1 Upham's Mahivamsa, vol. i, p. 228. 



64 ANCIENT INDIA 

he had to fight with the contemporary Pandyan, 
designated the victor, at Talaialanganam. With this 
mishap to the ruler the Chera ascendancy passes away. 
The Pandyans of Madura take their turn now, and 
continued to hold the position of hegemony up to the 
time that the Pallavas rise into importance. This, in 
brief and in very general terms, was the political 
history of South India at the beginning and during 
the early centuries of the Christian Era. 

Passing on from the political to the industrial con- 
dition of India, we have already described the principal 
sea-ports, both on the western and eastern seaboard. 
If, as has been pointed out, there were so many 
thriving ports and, if foreign merchants sought these 
for trade at considerable risk of pirates and, if there 
was so much enterprise in sea-going among the in- 
habitants of the country, the conclusion is irresistible 
that the country had a prosperous industry, and so, 
on examination, it appears certainly to have been. 
Apart from the complaints of Petronius that fashion- 
able Eoman ladies exposed their charms much too 
immodestly by clothing themselves in the ' webs of 
woven wind ', as he called the muslins imported from 
India, Pliny says that India drained the Eoman Empire 
annually to the extent of 55,000,000 sesterces, equal 
to £486,979' sending in return goods which sold at a 
hundred times their value in India. ^ He also remarks 
in another place, ' this is the price "v^ e pay for our 
luxuries and our women.' 

That the industrial arts had received attention and 
cultivation in early times in India is in evidence to 
the satisfaction of the most sceptical mind. The early 
Tamils divided arts into six groups : ploughing (mean- 



1 Mommen gives the total £11,000,000, £G,000,000 for Arabia, 
££,000,000 for India. 

' Malabar Manual, vol. i, pp. 250-1. 



SOUTH INDIAN COMMERCE 65 

ing therebj- agricultm-e), handicrafts, painting, cona- 
merce and trade, the learned arts, and lastly the fine 
arts. Of these agriculture and commerce were re- 
garded as of the first importance. Flourishing trade 
presupposes a Yolume of industry, the principal of 
which was weaving then, as it also has been until 
recently. Cotton, silk and wool seem to have been 
the materials that were wrought into cloths. Among 
the woollens we find mention of manufactures from 
the wool of rats, which was regarded as particularly 
warm. There are thirty varieties of silks mentioned, 
each with a distinctive appellation of its own, as distin- 
guished from the imported silks of China which had 
a separate name. The character of the cotton stuffs 
that were manufactured is indicated by the compari- 
sons instituted between them and, ' sloughs of serpents' 
or 'vapour from milk'; and the general description of 
these as ' those fine textures the thread of which 
could not be followed even by the eye.' 

The chief exports from the country, as the author of 
the Periplus says, were these : ' The produce of the soil 
like pepper, great quantities of best pearl are likewise 
purchased here, ivory, silk in the web, spikenard from 
the Ganges, betel from the countries further to the 
east, transparent stones of all sorts, diamonds, rabies 
and tortoise shell from the golden Chersonese or from 
the islands off the coast of Limurike.' This is all 
from the port of Muziris on the west coast. He goes 
on to say : ' There is a great resort of shipping to 
this port for pepper and betel ; the merchants bring 
out a large quantity of spice, and their other imports 
are topazes, stibium, coral, flint, glass, brass, and lead, 
a small quantity of wine as profitable as at Barugaza, 
cinnabar, fine cloth, arsenic and wheat, not for sale 
but for the use of the crew'. That Pliny's complaint 
about the drain was neither imaginary nor hypersensi- 
tive is in evidence in a passage descriptive of Muziris 
5 



66 ANCIENT INDIA 

in one of the ancient classics of Tamil literature* : 
' Musiri to which come the well-rigged ships of the 
Yavanas, bringing gold and taking away spices in 
exchange.' 

Eegarding the trade of the east coast, here follows 
a description of Puhar as a port ; ' Horses were brought 
from distant lands beyond the seas, pepper was brought 
in ships ; gold and precious stones came from the 
northern mountains ; sandal and aghil came from the 
mountains towards the west ; pearl from the southern 
seas and coral from the eastern seas. The produce of 
the region watered by the Ganges ; all that is grown 
on the banks of the Kavery ; articles of food from Ham 
(Ceylon) and the manufactures of Kalaham (Burma)' ^ 
were brought there for sale. The products of particular 
importance received in the port of Tondi are aghil 
(a kind of black aromatic wood), fine silk stuff (from 
China), candy, sandal, scents, and camphor. All of 
these articles and salt were carried into the interior 
by means of wagons drawn by teams of oxen, slowly 
trudging along through town and village, effecting ex- 
changes with commodities for export. Tolls were paid 
on the way, and the journey from the coast up the 
plateau and back again occupied many months. A 
brisk and thriving commerce with the corresponding 
volume of internal trade argues peace, and the period 
to which the above description will apply must have 
been a period of general peace in the Peninsula. 
They did not forget in those days to maintain a regular 
customs establishment, the officials of which piled up 
the grain and stored up the things that could not 
immediately be measured and appraised, leaving them 
in the dockyards carefully sealed with the tiger signet 
of the king.' 

1 Ahananuru, lit). 

2 Fattinappdlai, 127 fi. and The Tamils 1300 years ago, p. 27. 

3 Patiinajopalai, 134-6. 



SOCIAL CONDITION 67 

The Tamils built their own sliips ; and in the other 
crafts of the skilled artisan they seem tii have attained 
some proficiency, though they availeJ themselves of ex- 
perts from distant places. In the building of the royal 
palace at Puhar, skilled artisans from ^lagadha, mecha- 
nics from Maradam (Maharatta), smitlis from Avanti 
(Malva), carpenters from Yavana, worked* together with 
the artisans of the Tamil land. There is mention of 
a temple of the most beautiful workmanship, in the same 
city, built by the Gurjjaras.^ In the building of forts 
and in the providing of them with weapons and missiles, 
both for offence and defence, the Tamils had attained 
to something like perfection. Twenty-four such weapons 
are mentioned among the defences of I\Iadura. 

Passing on from the industrial to the literary, social 
and religious condition of the south, which we have 
so far been considering, we have again to do with 
the three kingdoms, each \\-ith a capital city and a 
premier port. The Cholas had their capital at Uraiyur, 
vyith Puhar for an alternative capital and chief port ; 
the Pandyas had their capital at Madura, with the 
port and premier viceroyalty at Korkai ; the Cheras 
had their capital at Vanji, with the principal port 
and viceroyalty at Tondi. The Cholas had their pre- 
mier viceroy, who was generally the heir apparent, 
or at least a prince of the blood, at Kanchi. These 
towns and ports, therefore, bulk very largely in the 
literature and literary traditions of the period. The 
road from Kanchi to Trichinopalli appears to have 
passed through Tirukkoilur. From Trichinopoly (i. e. 
Uraiyrir) to Madura it lay along the more arid parts 
of the Tanjore district to Kodumbai in the state of 
Pudukkritta, and thence to Xedungulam ; from which 
place the road broke into three, and led up to Afadura 

1 Manimekhalai, Canto xix, 11. 107 and ff. 

2 Ibid xviii. 1. 115. 



68 ANCIENT INDIA 

in three branches. From this last town a road kept- 
close to the banks of the river Vaigai up to the Palnis ;. 
and from there it went up the hills and down again 
along the banks of the Periyar to the town of Vanji,. 
situated near its mouth. There were also other roads 
besides ; one, at least, from Vanji to the modern Karoor,. 
and thence on to Tirukkoilur. These roads were not 
safe in all parts alike, there being certain portions of 
them that passed through desert regions, inhabited by 
wild tribes, who were a cause of terror to the way- 
farers, particularly those who had something to lose, 
notwithstanding the fact that robbery was punished 
with nothing short of impalement. Journeys were none 
the less frequent for purposes of pilgrimage, or in 
search of patronage for learning, or for the profits of 
commerce. 

The rulers in those days held before them high ideals 
of government. Their absolute authority was limited 
by the ' five great assemblies ', as they were called, of 
ministers, priests, generals, heralds (spies), and ambas- 
sadors. There appears to have been a general permit 
for a learned Brahmin to speak his mind in any durbar ; 
and these often gave out their opinions most fearlessly. 
This privilege was similarly accorded also to men of 
learning. I give a few instances in illustration : a 
Brahmin pilgrim from the Chola country happened 
to be present at the Chera court, when the Chera king 
gave orders to his ministers to set his army in motion 
to avenge an insult that some northern princes, he was 
told, had given him. The minister's remonstrance and 
the reluctance of the general were overruled. This 
Brahmin got up and pointed out, in a speech, that he 
had warred for the fifty years of his rule in order to safe- 
guard his earthly interests, but had done very little to 
provide for himself in the life to come. Of course 
the expedition was countermanded, and the king began 
to make provision for the future. A young Pandya 



EESPECT FOB LEARNING G9 

king of the next generation showed himself too enthusi- 
astic for war, and it fell to the lot of one of the poets 
at court to wean him of this war craze. In a poem of 
850 lines he conveyed the hint to the king ; if language 
can be conceived to be the art of concealing thought, 
here is an instance par excellence. The next instance 
takes us to the court of the Malayaman of Tirukkoilur, 
who neglected his wife. A number of poets of the 
first rank interceded and restored him to her. The 
next case that I will mention here is that of a poet, 
who enjoyed the patronage of successive Chola rulers. 
He found that at the end of a civil war the victorious 
Chola was about to put to death his vanquished cousin. 
The poet pointed out that the victory tarnished the 
good name of the Cholas, quite as much as a defeat ; 
and that he did not know whether to rejoice for the 
victorious Chola or weep for the vanquished one. 
The intercession was certainly effective. These illus- 
trations show in addition the respect that learning 
commanded. I shall permit myself one more illustra- 
tion to show this respect. The warlike Pandya referred 
to already, came to the throne young. He had imme- 
diately to go to war against a combination of his two 
neighbours, and his court was naturally anxious as to the 
result. The young prince in a poem, full of poetical 
grace, assured them that he would return victorious, 
and that, if he should fail, the poets of his court, 
including Mangudi Marudan, might cease to attend. 
The ideal of justice set before them in those days 
was something unattainable. They strove their utmost 
to attain to the sublimity of their ideal ; and a king 
was judged good or bad upon the degree of success 
he achieved in this particular branch of his duties. 
' Oh the king ! he is to blame if the rains fail ; he is 
to blame if women go astray. What is there in a 
king's estate, except perpetual anxiety, that people 
should envy the position of a king for ! ' Learning went 



70 ANCIENT INDIA 

in search of patronage. There must have been a very 
considerable output of literature. It was doubtless to 
check the growth of the weed of learning that a body 
of censors called the Sangam was instituted. It is a 
number of works, which received the imprimatur of 
this learned body, that has been the source of all this 
information regarding this period. This is not the 
place to enter into the question of the origin of Tamil 
literature ; or of its independence or otherwise ; or of 
its connexion with the literature of Sanskrit. But I 
may remark, in passing, that Tamil literature (as distinct 
from language,) cannot lay claim to that independence 
that its votaries demand for it with more zeal than 
argument. Learning was somewhat widespread and 
much sought after. AYomen had their share of learning, 
as the number of women poets indicates. Nor was 
this learning confined to the Brahmin ; although he was 
the sole custodian of the 'northern lore'. 

In matters religious there was a happj' confusion. 
Jains, Buddhists, Brahmins, Saivas, Vaishnavas, and 
people of other persuasions, both major and minor, all 
lived together and at peace with one another. ' There 
were splendid temples in the city dedicated to the 
worship of the celestial tree Kalpaka, the celestial ele- 
phant Airavata, Vajrayudha (the thunderbolt of Indra), 
Baladeva, Surya, Chandra, Siva, Subrahmaniya, Sata- 
vahana, of Nigrantha, Kama (god of love), and Yama 
(god of death). There were seven viharas reputed to 
have been built by Indra, the king of the gods in which 
dwelt no less than 300 monks (Buddhistic). The temple 
of Yama was outside the walls of the town, in the 
burial ground in the city of Puhar, the capital of the 
Cholas.' * The three rival systems of the Brahmins, 
and those of the Jains and the Buddhists flourished 
together, each with its own clientele unhampered by 

1 PatiinappdJai, etc. 



POSITION OP THE BRAHMAN 71 

the others in the prosecution of its own holy rights. 
The Brahmin was regarded as an inconvenience, by 
some, but the general feehng was that he was indis- 
pensable to the prosperity of the State. A devout 
Buddhist and an ascetic Jain prince both speak of 
him with great respect. He was the custodian of the 
hidden lore ; he was the guardian of the sacred fire, 
the source of material prosperity to the State ; he 
was the person who performed the sacrifices according 
to the difficult orthodox rites, and who brought timely 
rain. These are the terms in which these heterodox 
writers refer to him. He had a function in society 
and he discharged it faithfully. The whole attitude 
both of the orthodox and also of the heterodox in 
matters of religion was pity for the ignorance of the 
other ; but nothing more bitter, as Max Mnller has 
very well pointed out. 

Animism seems to have played an important part 
in the religious system of those days. There was a 
temple consecrated to the ' Chaste Lady ', as she was 
called, who died in consequence of the murder of her 
husband. Her images are preserved in temples up to 
the present times, for, according to Dr. A. K. Kuma- 
rasami,' some of the images depicted in illustration of 
the ancient art of Ceylon are of this deified woman. Sati 
was in vogue ; but under well recognized limitations. 
This was permitted only to women, who had neither na- 
tural guardians to fall back upon, nor children to bring 
up. That it was not uncommon for young women 
to return to their parents widowed, is vouched for by 
a comparison that a poet institutes between the ap- 
proach of darkness and the return of the widowed young 
woman, whose husband had lately fallen in war. An- 
nual festivals were celebrated with great eclat, and one 
of the grandest was that to Indra celebrated at Puhilr. 

1 J. R A. S., 1909, p. ■292. 



72 ANCIENT INDIA 

I have gathered my facts from a vast body of Tamil 
hterature only recently made available to the student. 
I now proceed to consider the sources of this infor- 
mation, which are the classical writers; Indian literature, 
Tamil and Sanskrit : and the Ceylonese chronicle. Of 
the first group, Strabo wrote in the reigns of Augustus 
and Tiberius, Pliny published his geography in a. d. 77 ; 
the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea was written in the 
first century a.d. ; Ptolemy wrote his geography about 
A.D. 160; the Peutingerian Tables were composed in 
A.D. 222. There were other writers who wrote later, 
but we are not concerned with them directly. I would 
draw attention to three points, taken from the works 
of classical writers. 

Pliny remarks : ' At the present day voyages are made 
to India every year, and companies of archers are 
carried on board, because the Indian seas are infested 
by pirates'. Later on he says : 'It (Muziris) is not a 
desirable place of call, pirates being in the neighbour- 
hood, who occupy a place called Nitrias; and besides, it 
is not well supplied with wares for traffic '. This 
was before a.d. 77. Ptolemy regarded this port Muziris 
as an emporium, and places the country of Aioi south 
of Bakarai. The Peutingerian Tables state clearly that 
two Eoman cohorts were maintained in the same town 
for the protection of Eoman commerce. 

Mr. Sewell, who has made an elaborate study of 
the Eoman coins found in India, considers that the 
coin finds lead to the following conclusions': 

1. There was hardly any commerce between Eome 
and India during the Consulate. 

2. With Augustus began an intercourse which, en- 
abling the Eomans to obtain oriental luxuries during 
the early days of the empire, culminated about the 
time of Nero, who died a. d. 68. 

1 J.R.A.S., 1904, p, 591. 



CONCLUSIONS 73 

3. From this time forward the trade declined till 
the date of Caracalla, a. d. '217. 

4. From the date of Caracalla it almost entirely 
ceased. 

5. It revived again, though slightly, under the 
Byzantine emperors. 

He also infers that the trade under the early em- 
perors was in luxuries; under the later ones in industrial 
products, and under the Byzantines the commerce was 
with the south-west coast only, and not with the inte- 
rior. He differs from those who find an explanation 
of this fluctuation in the political and social condition 
of India itself, and the facilities or their absence for 
navigating the seas; and considers that the cause is to 
be sought for in the political and social condition of 
liome. 

From an examination of the second class of my 
sources of information alone, we find that there was 
a period when South India was under great rulers, 
who gave the country peace and thus provided the 
indispensable security for commerce. This period can 
be shown to correspond to that of the Boman empire 
from Augustus to Caracalla. After this period, we 
find the country in a condition of political flux. These 
being so we may still find one, at least, of the most 
potent causes of this commercial decline in the 
internal condition of India itself. Pliny and Ptolemy 
do not naention the Roman cohorts at Muziris which 
the Feutingerian Tables do. The first exploit of the 
Eed Chera is the destruction of the Kadambu tree 
on the sea coast. Another compliment that the poets 
never miss an opportunity of bestowing upon this 
patron is that the Chera fleet sailed on the waters 
of that littoral with a sense of dominion and security. 
The Kadambu mentioned above is explained as a tree 
of extraordinary power which could not be cut down 
by ordinary man. I rather think from tbe context 



74 ANCIENT INDIA 

that it has reference to a piratical rendezvous. If this 
view be correct, the advent of the said Chera brought 
along with it security. This would be in conformity 
with Ptolemy's reference to Aay, who was one of the 
seven chieftains known to literature as ' the last seven 
patrons'. From the body of works known to Tamil 
scholars as Sangam works their contemporaneity 
could easily be established. I have examined this ques- 
tion elsewhere in the chapter on The Augustan Age 
of Tamil Literature and find the name Aay a distinctive 
name of an individual, and not that of a family. 
Then Aay must have been the contemporary of, or a 
little older than, Ptolemy, and the age of Ptolemy 
would practically be the age of the Bed Chera, and 
the Chera ascendancy. This conclusion only confirms 
what has been arrived at independentl}' of this class 
of evidence. Gajabaliu of Ceylon, who visited the Eed 
Chera almost at the end of his reign, ruled according 
to the Ceylonese chronicle from a. D. 113 to 135. 
Allowing for the difference between the Ceylonese 
date of the Nirvana of the Buddha and that arrived 
at by modern scholars, as Dr. Fleet, namely, sixty 
years, the date for Gajabahu would be a. d. 173 to 193. 
The Chera ascendancy then would cover the latter two- 
thirds of the second century A. D. Here has to be 
brought in the Paisachi work Brihat KatJid. Among the 
temples mentioned as having been found at Puhar 
was one dedicated to Satavahana. This personage was 
the ruler in whose court flourished the minister 
Gunadya, who was the author of this stupendous work 
which stands at the root of all romantic literature 
in India, whether in Sanskrit or any vernacular. It 
was a translation of this work that set the 'fashion in 
Tamil for the composition of the romantic epics. The 
age of the original is still matter under investigation. 
The latest authority on the question is the Dutch 
scholar Speyer, who would place it in the third century 



CONCLCSIONS 75 

A. D. at the earliest — a date clearly impossible according 
to our line of inquiry. I shall not say more about 
it here now ; but only remark that one of the works, 
clearly based upon this, has to be referred to a period 
anterior to the astronomer, Varahamihira a. d. 533. 
This work, Manimelchala refers to the asterism under 
which the Buddha was born as the fourteenth ; which, 
according to the modern computation, following 
Varahamihira, ought to be the seventeenth. The Ceylon 
Chronicle also deserves to be investigated more carefully. 
So far investigations from different points of view only 
appear to confirm its chronology, except for the cor- 
rection made above. 

The date of the death of Caracalla corresponds closely 
to the disappearance of the Satavahanas of the Dekhan. 
According to the latest opinion the power of the 
Knshanas also vanished about the same period. In 
South India likewise the Pandya ascendancy passes into 
darkness. The centurj' following is one of the dark 
spots in Indian history, until the rise of the G-uptas 
in the north, of the Chalukyas in the Dekhan, and of 
the Pallavas in the south. More research into Tamil 
literature and the Ceylon Mahavamsa would yield 
results worth the trouble, failing coins and other 
auxiliaries. There may be also something to be 
gained by a careful study of the traditions that grew 
up later on. 



CHAPTEE V 
THE MYSOBE STATE— A BETBOSPECT 

The State of Mysore over which His Highness Sri 
Krishna Kaj Wadeyar Bahadur, G.c.s.i., presides, lies 
between 11° 38' and 15° 2' north latitude and between 
74° 42' and 78° 36' east longitude. It occupies just 
the apex of the triangle which is known as the plateau 
of the Dekhan. Mysore itself is a somewhat irregular 
quadrilateral resting upon the shoulders of the eastern 
and the western ghats, where they make their junction 
in the cluster of hills round about the Nilgiris. 
Eaised from two to three thousand feet above the sea 
it has a salubrious climate, and falls into two divisions, 
each with distinctive physical features. The one is 
the Malnad (hill country) extending between the wes- 
tern ghats and a line drawn from Shikarpur to 
Periyapatna and onward even to Biligirirangan hills ; 
then the maidan (plain) all east of it up to the Madras 
frontier. The quadrilateral measures 290 miles east to 
west and 230 miles north to south, occupying an area 
of 29,445 square miles, of which an area of thirteen 
square miles has been assigned to form the Civil and 
Military Station of Bangalore, which is directly under 
the British administration. The population of the 
State, excluding that of the Civil and Military Station, 
was returned in the last census (1901) as 5,449,800 
(2,751,902 males and 2,697,898 females), averaging 185 
to the square mile. More than five miUions or 92'63 
per cent of the total are Hindus ; Musalmans number 
268,131 or 4-92 per cent; and Christians 32,933 or 



THE BEGINNING OF MYSORE HISTORY 77 

O'G per cent. As manj- as S(.l,021) are returned as 
• animistic ' and the Jains number 13,68-2. Of the 
total population only five per cent are literate. Of the 
males only nine per cent are literate. 

The State, as it is at present, has been in exist- 
ence as a single political entity only from a. d. 1800 
onwards ; but the territory comprised therein has had 
a history of its own long anterior to this period. 
There are traditions local and general, connecting this 
area with the great epics of the Bdnidtjaiia- and the 
Mahdbhdrata. As we come down the stream of time, 
Jain traditions record that the great IMauryan em- 
peror, Chandragupta, retired from the world and spent 
the evening of life in contemplation at Sravana Belgola. 
His more famous grandson, Asoka, if the Mahdvamsa 
is to be believed, sent missionaries to Mahishamandala. 
This name for the territory has not been found 
either in the inscriptions of Asoka or that of Samudra- 
gupta. There is no doubt that both Asoka, and after 
him the Satavahanas and finally Samudragupta, had 
all of them some historical connexion with the coun- 
try, but it is not referred to by the name Mahisha- 
mandala.* Be this as it may, we have certain reference.^ 
in Tamil literature to chiefs who have to be located 
in Mysore and it has to be assumed that, so far as 
can be known at present, the history of the ?iIysore 
countrv begins with the Christian era at least. 

At this period the Gangas occupy the southern por- 
tion of Mvsore with their capitals, first at Kolar and 
later on at Talakad. Among those who met the Chcra 
king, Senguttuvan, in his northern expedition were 
the Gangas, and they vi.Mted him when he was in 
camp at the foot of the Xilgiris. From this time 
onwards the province is divided into three distinct parts, 

' I am glad to find mysslf supported by Dr. Fleet in this position 
vide p. 425 et seq., I. R. A. S., p. 1910. 



78 ANCIENT INDIA 

each with a history of its own, roughly correspond- 
ing to the three British divisions of Ashtagram, 
Nandidroog and Nagar. These ancient divisions were 
Gangavadi 96,000, Nolambavadi 32,000 and Banavase 
12,000.1 Of these three, the first was under the 
Gangas up to the end of the first millennium after 
Christ ; the second was at first divided among the 
Banas or Mahavalis, the Vaidumbas, and part perhaps 
among the Cholas and the Pallavas, till at last the 
Pallavas conquered them and made the whole an 
annexe to their dominions. The territory of Banavase 
maintained itself from the beginning of the Christian 
era, possibly earlier, to its absorption by the early 
Chalukyas, about the time that Nolambavadi was con- 
quered by the Pallavas. 

Up to A. D. 600, then, the three parts of the 
Mysore province each had an independent history and 
was struggling to maintain its independence. Then 
two of them lost it, while the third was more fortu- 
nate than either of its neighbours. It is in the history 
of the third that we have to look for the early history 
of Mysore, though it w"as not known by that name. 
About A. D. 600, when the Chalukyas, north of the 
Krishna, who were in occupation practically of the whole 
of the Dekhan, and the Pallava masters of the south 
were fighting for ascendency in India south of the 
Vindhyas, the province of Mysore, situated at a con- 
venient angle between the two great powers, was 
allowed to develop on her own lines for a short time. 

The Pallavas and Chalukyas had to maintain an 
incessant struggle along the Tungabhadra-Krishna 

1 The figures attached to eacli name seem to indicate either the revenue 
paid or the value of the produce, as is customary even now in 
certain localities. Mr. Rice considers it to be the former. Dr. Fleet 
takes them to stand for the number of townships in the division, in. 
spite of apparent exaggeration. This does not find support in exist- 
ing practice, which clearly indicates that it is either revenue, or 
income, sometimes the quantity of seed required. 



GANGAS 79 

frontier. lu this struggle Banavase loses its individual 
existence and the Chalukyan frontier is advanced into 
the province of M_ysore in the west and the Circars 
in the east. In the latter region a new viceroj'alty is 
created with a brother of the king for its viceroy, 
and this latter becomes the founder of a separate 
dynasty, that of the eastern Chalukyas. The two great 
Powers, however, wear out each other in the struggle, 
and what follows, as a natural consequence, is the sub- 
version of both. The Chalukyas are overthrown by the 
Eashtrakutas and the Pallava empire breaks up into 
a number of petty principalities, owina perhaps to the 
temporary occupation of Kanchi by the Kashtrakuta 
Dantidurga Yairamegha. All these transactions take 
place about a. d. 7-54 ; and during this time eastern 
Mysore is closely associated with the fortunes of the 
Pallavas and southern ^Mysore or Gaugavadi is left for 
a while to herself. The ne.xt century is a period of 
steady advance of the Gangas. It is at the end of 
this period that the Gangas advance in the southern 
direction and fight a battle against Yaraguna Pandya 
at Tirupparambiyam, near Kumbakonam. Meantime 
the Eashtrakutas in the north have had time to con- 
solidate their newly-won empire, shifting their capital 
to an interior place from Bad ami once destroyed by 
the Pallavas. The Eashtrakuta capital was at Manya- 
keta. which is identified with ^lalkhed in the Xizam's 
dominions. Having set matters right at head-quarters, 
these Eashtrakutas were in a position to advance their 
arms southward and south-eastward, and the absence 
of a powerful State facilitated this movement. The 
Gangas became the feudatories of the Eashtrakutas, 
who even occupy Kanchi for a time, stopping for a 
while the growth of the Chola pjwer just rising above 
the horizon of South Indian politics. With the begin- 
ning of the tenth century after Christ the aspect of 
affairs in South India was somewhat as follows : the 



80 ANCIENT INDIA 

Eashtrakata, Krishna III, having been in temporary- 
occupation of Kanchi, completely shattered the 
remnant of the Pallavas, while before his time 
the Gangas had been reduced to subjection by his 
predecessors. South of the Mysore frontier there arose- 
a new Power which had been for some time forming 
a State of its own out of the disintegrating Pallava. 
dominions. The great Chola Parantaka overthrew the 
Ganga-Pallavas, then the Pandyas and the Keralas,. 
and made for himself, in touch with all three ahke, the 
Chola kingdom which was destined to a far greater 
future. The net result of all this activity was that 
the Eashtrakuta frontier was pushed back past the 
plateau of Mysore. It was time then for the rising 
Cholas to measure their strength with that of the 
EashtrakQtas, when these latter were overthrown by 
the Chalukyas in a. d. 972. This event facilitated 
matters considerably for the Cholas, as their previous 
attempts in this direction had been foiled by the suc- 
cessful resistance of the Ganga feudatories of the 
Eashtrakutas. Eajaditya, the heir-apparent to the Chola 
empire, fell at Takkolam about the middle of the 
century, and the Chola advance had been put back 
by this event for half a century. 

The overthrow of the Eashtrakutas in a. j\ 972 was 
followed by a cessation of activity on their southern 
frontier, and the Gangas were left to develop them- 
selves as best they might. This was the opportunity 
for the Cholas, who by now had occupied the Kongu, 
country beyond. "Before the Chalukyas could consider 
themselves secure in the north of Mysore, the Cholas 
pushed their arms northward over the passes and 
overthrew the Gangas, occupying Talakad in the west 
and Kolar in the east. Then began, between the two 
Powers, the Chola from the south and Chalukya from 
the north, one of the most persistent and well-matched 
struggles for the possession of what is now the State 



PIEST ilYSOBE DYNASTY 81 

of Mysore. During the first quarter of the tenth 
century, the southern Power under the great Kajaraja 
and his son Eajendva had occupied the country corre- 
sponding to the maidan part almost, and the Chalukj^as 
were left in possession only of what was Banavase 
1'2,000 and the extreme northern part of Xolambavadi 
32,000. Along a frontier stretching from Yedatore in 
the west to Henjeru and Chitaldroog in the east, the 
two Powers contended for mastery and the contest 
had become very earnest, when Ahavamalla yiancsvara 
ascended the throne of the Karnataka. Ahavamalla's 
reign and that of his son Yikramaditya occupied the 
rest of the century and the first quarter of the next. 
During this period the Chola empire enjoyed a suc- 
cession of great rulers ending with Kulottun^a Cholar 
' who abolished tolls '. It was in the course of this, 
struggle that this part of the table-land had the 
chance of being brought under one rule, and the first 
independent dynasty of Mysore came then into being. 
This was the dynasty of Hoysalas, sometimes wrongly 
designateil Bellalas, which having been chieftains of 
a petty distL'ict in Hassan, advanced to become one 
of the great South Indian Powers. The first rult-rs of 
this dynasty distinguished themselves against the 
Cholas on behalf of the Chalukyas, and obtained for 
this service a greatly extended viceroyalty which, 
while yet Vishnuvardhana was ruling, embraced the 
whole of the present province of ^lysore. Before he 
died, he left the Hoysala kingdom with it.s frontier 
advanced in the north up to the Krishna. His son 
and grandson were engaged in consolidating this king- 
dom and putting it upon a footing of peace and pros- 
perity. The next rulers were in a position to lead 
up their forces to bear their share in the break-up of 
the great Chola empire in the south. The C'halukya 
empire had gone past reclamation and the Kalachurya 
usurpers had had a bad time of it in maintaming 
6 



82 ANCIENT INDIA 

themselves against the Yadavas of Devagiri, the Kaka- 
tiyas of Warangal, and the Hoysalas thenaselves. 
When this great empire had been divided among the 
three, the turn for the Cholas came. The Kakatiyas 
occupied Kanchi for a while, the Pandyas marched 
upon Trichinopoly and were in occupation of Srirangam. 
In this condition, the Cholas found the Hoysalas 
ready enough friends. The Hoysala Narasimha and 
his son Srimesvara drove out the Pandyas indeed, but 
took their place and not only occupied Srirangam 
but divided themselves also into two branches, one 
ruling the empire above the Ghats and the other that 
below. 

It is now that the Hoysala empire reached the high 
water-mark of its prosperity. Then came the great 
invasion of the Dekhan under Malik Kafur, followed 
within a quarter of a century by a more systematic 
conquest by Muhammad bin Toghlak. First the 
Yadavas, then the Kakatiyas, and last of all the 
Hoysalas were overthrown by the former, who advanced 
farther south and occupied Madura and places round 
about. With the return of Malik Kafur, the Hindu 
powers had some respite which they made use of for 
reconstruction, perhaps not entirely successful, which 
a fresh advance of the Muhammadans under Muham- 
mad bin Toghlak for a time kept back. It required a 
man of genius to gather together the separate and 
isolated efforts of petty chieftains, and then arose the 
great Vijianagar empire, thanks to the guidance of 
Vidyaranya. 

The Hoysalas who had, since the burning down of 
their capital at Halebid by Malik Kafur, been at 
Tondanur, easily succumbed to the rising Power and 
the State of Mysore was among the earliest acquisi- 
tions of Vijayanagar. The varying fortunes of this 
empire, it will be out of place to trace here. During 
all the waxing and waning of this great Hindu State 



THE RISE OF THE \SOnEYAES 88 

on the Tungabhadra, Mysore enjoyed the geographical 
advantages of her situation and had been divided into 
three chief viceroyalties — that of Channapatna and 
Sriraagapatna in the south, and Bednur in the north. 
In the intrigues at the court of Vijayanaggar, some 
of the Mysore Xaiks played their inglorious parts, till 
the great catastrophe that overwhelmed the great 
empire threw them all into confusion for a while. 
When matters quieted down after the battle of Tali- 
kota, the whole empire was nominally under the 
ruler at Penukonda, but the viceroys at Madura and 
Srirangapatna regarded themselves as practically inde- 
pendent. Jagadevarvarayulu or Ranapeddajagadevara- 
yulu had been disgraced, and his possessions were 
falling into the hands of the viceroy at Sriranga- 
patna. 

In this state of affairs in South India generally, 
there arose among the number of chieftains, who were 
the actual rulers of the territory under the Seringa- 
patam viceroy, a Wodeyar of remarkable ability. This 
was Eaja Wodeyar of Mysore belonging, as he claimed, 
to the Yadava family of Guzerat. His first ancestor 
came into Mysore from the ' banks of the Godavari ' 
two centuries before a.d. 1600, and the family had 
since been in the enjoyment of a comparatively small 
bit of territory in and around the taluk of Mysore. 
It was given to Eaja Wodeyar to enlarge his petty 
principality into a compact kingdom, and this could be 
done only by occupying the viceroyalty of Tirumalaraya 
of Seringapatam. 

Eaja AA'odeyar took advantage of the differences 
between Venkatapari Eaya at head-quarters at I'enu- 
konda and his nephew Tirumalaraya of Seringapatam, 
and enlarged his territory by first attacking that of the 
Chennapatna viceroy and then of his suzerain, the 
viceroy at Seringapatam. When matters were ripe 
and he found himself strong enough, he brought on 



84 



ANCIENT INDIA 



a quarrel with the viceroy, which eventually was taken 
to be cause enough to go to war. He who had taken 
measures carefully for the forthcoming eventuality 
proved the stronger of the combatants. Tirumalaraya 
had to flee for life, and was eventually killed and 
Seringapatam fell to Eaja Wodeyar. He, however, 
deemed it prudent to get his possession ratified by 
an imperial grant in a.d. 1612. Thus came into being 
the State of Mysore properly so-called. 

Under Eaja Wodeyar and his immediate successors, 
the State occupied only the districts of the same 
name, and it was not till the throne passed into a 
collateral branch under a nephew, Kantiravanarasaraja 
Wodeyar, that anything like a systematic conquest of 
the Chennapatna viceroyalty was attempted ; and when 
he laid down the responsibility of royalty he bad 
extended the boundaries of the State very considerably. 
Next followed Dodda Deva Eaja Wodeyar, who pursued 
the policy of his predecessors and extended his territory 
through the Tumkur and Chitaldroog districts so that 
when his nephew, Chikkadeva Eaja Wodeyar, came to 
the throne in the middle of the seventeenth century, 
about the same time as the Emperor Aurangzeb ruled, 
he had only to purchase Bangalore from Ekojee in 
order to complete the state of Mysore, and to occupy 
the maidan part, leaving the Malnad still under the 
most able among the Xaiks of Ikkeri (near Bedniir). 
The making of Mysore was now complete, and Chikka- 
deva had to organize the territories. In this great 
work, he was ably supported, first by his Jain tutor, 
Vishalakshana Pundit of Yelandur, and then by Tirumala 
lyangar, a friend and fellow pupil. When he died in 
A. D. 1704, a few years before his imperial contem- 
porary, he left to his deaf-mute son a well-ordered 
State, including not only the maidan parts of Mysore, 
but also the bordering districts below the ghats, with 
a full treasury, and a capable and faithful minister- 



THE DALAVAYS 85 

regent in the person of his life-long friend Tirumala 
lyangar. 

This state of affairs gave an opportunity for the 
disorderly elements to assert themselves, which under 
the strong rule of Kantlrava Narasa, and before him 
of Eaja Wodeyar, had been kept vs^ell in hand. Through 
the great ability and management of the Brahmin 
minister, the so-called ' Mooka Arasu ' (the dumb-king) 
passed away after a peaceful reign leaving behind him 
a son. Under this son, the State was exposed to two 
great dangers from outside. The Ikkeri Naiks had been 
vpeakened, and eventually reduced to nullity, through 
the double attack from the Bijapur Sultans on the 
one side and the Mysore Wodeyars on the other. The 
removal of this barrier exposed the rising state of 
Mysore to the invasions of the Mnsalmans of the 
Dekhan and the Mahrattas. When Dodda Krishna 
Eaja was ruling ^lysore, the Dalavays came into 
notice as a distinct factor in politics. They rendered 
service to the State by first taking Devanahalli and 
Chikkaballapur and then Savandroog, near Bangalore, 
and by successfully withstanding the Mahrattas. When 
Krishna I passed away he left behind him no proper 
heir, and the usual struggles at king-making began. 
The first nominee did not prove a very apt tool, and 
the king-makers discovered that they had mistaken 
their man. He was sent away to Kabbaldroog to 
perish there, and in his stead a bab>-, Krishna Eaja, 
was placed upon the throne. The real power in the 
State actually passed out of the hands of the Maharaja 
into the hands of the three great functionaries of 
State — the Dalavay, the Pradhan and the Sarvadhikari. 
Two brothers of the famous Dalavay family and a 
cousin divided the three places among themselves, and 
the administration was carried on smoothly for some- 
time, when the Maharaja began to chafe under the 
yoke thus gradually made heavier as he felt. In this 



86 ANCIENT INDIA 

state of affairs in Mysore, there was coming into notice 
a young Musalman in the Mysore army, who had 
attracted his General's attention in the siege of Devan- 
halH by the Mysore forces under Nanjaraja, against 
the Nawab of Sira. The young man was soon advanced 
to the position of a squadron commander, and found 
scope for rendering more useful service to his master 
in the operations round Trichinopoly during the 
Karnatic wars of the eighteenth century. Dalavay 
Devaraja having grown too old, an exchange of offices 
took place between the brothers, and Nanjaraj assumed 
command at Trichinopoly, where for distinguished ser- 
vice Haidar had been rewarded with the Foujdari of 
DindigLil. When Nanjaraj returned to Mysore, matters 
were growing ripe for a revolution. Devaraj having 
retired from public life, the Maharaja was getting tired 
of the yoke of Nanjaraja who was becoming very high- 
handed, and an attempt was made by the palace party 
to get rid of the troublesome minister. Haidar's aid 
was called in and for the while Nanjaraja was com- 
pelled to retire on pension. All that he was doing, 
and more, was entrusted to Haidar, who got rid of 
Kande Eao, whom he had made use of as an apt tool 
in all his previous transactions. The power over the 
army and the financial control given to him to stop 
the inroads of troublesome foes like the Nawab of 
Sira and the Mahrattas, made him the arbiter of the 
situation, and he then became the ruler of the State, 
though he still preserved the monarchy of the 
Wodeyars by nominating one from among the young 
cousins of the Eoyal family, when Krishna Eaja II 
passed away. The circumstances of the selection are 
thus described by Wilks : ' He ordered all the children 
to be collected from the different branches of the 
house, who, according to ancient precedent, were 
entitled to furnish a successor to the throne. The 
ceremonial observed on this occasion, however childish, 



THE TJSTJRPATION 87 

was in perfect accordance with the feelings which he 
intended to delude, and sufficiently adapted to the 
superstition of the fatalist. The hall of audience was 
strewed round with fruits, sweetmeats and flowers, 
playthings of various descriptions, arms, books, male 
and female ornaments, bags of money, and every 
varied object of puerile or manly pursuit ; the children 
were introduced together and were all invited to help 
themselves to whatever they liked best ; the greater 
number were quickly engaged in a scramble for the 
fruits, sweetmeats and toys ; but one child was at- 
tracted by a brilliant little dagger, which he took up 
in his right hand, and soon afterwards a lime in his 
left. "That is the Eajah ", exclaimed Haidar. "His 
first care is military protection, his second to realize 
the produce of his dominion, bring him hither, and 
let me embrace him." The assembly was in a universal 
murmur of applause, and he ordered the child to be 
conducted to the Hindu palace and prepared for 
installation.' 

It was the role of Haidar to enlarge the boundaries 
of the ^Mysore kingdom beyond its former boundaries, 
so as to include within its dominions the countries 
right up to the Krishna in the north and as far as 
Dindigul in the south. He had to contend against 
the Nizam and the more powerful Mahrattas in the 
north and the English Company in the east and 
south. In spite of reverses he maintained the terri- 
tories of Mysore intact and left them all to his son, 
who for the first time did away with the fiction of 
a Maharaja. Tlpii Sultan followed in the wake of 
his father and cherished ambitions, which constantly 
led him to trample upon his neighbour's rights. This 
eventually led to a combination among them and 
TTpu had to accept the inevitable. He never gave up 
organizing himself for a final struggle, which led to the 
fall of Seringapatam, and the restoration of the Hindu 



OO ANCIENT INDIA 

dynasty of the Wodeyars under Krishna Eaja Wodeyar. 
All this brings us to the nineteenth century which 
begins with the Mysore State as it is at present. 
The young Maharaja's administration was to be con- 
ducted by the Eegent Purniah. Sir Barry Close was 
then British Eesident, with Sir Arthur Wellesley as 
Commander of the forces. Purniah carried on the ad- 
ministration till A. D. 1812, when the Maharaja assumed 
the responsibilities of his high office. Purniah then 
retired to Seringapatam, to bring a busy life to a close 
there, so long the scene of his activity. 

The young Maharaja, thus freed from the influence 
of the only man who was likely, during those troublous 
times, to steer into a safe harbour the ship of State, 
was, but with difficulty, able to hold his own against 
the disorderly elements then abounding in the country. 
His generosity was proverbial and is remembered even 
to this day. Disorders broke out simultaneously in 
several parts of the State and in the neighbouring 
British districts. It was thought that the Maharaja 
was too ready to listen to advisers who were by no 
means competent to give him wise counsel. His 
princely generosity was used as a handle to depose 
him. Some debts, which the Maharaja had contracted, 
were paid off by the British Government, and the 
Maharaja was told that, as this state of things could 
not proceed any further, he would have to lead a 
retired life with a pension suited to his rank and dignity. 
Needless to say the Maharaja protested. The Gover- 
nor-General was, however, determined to act upon the 
fourth and fifth articles of the subsidiary treaty, and 
accordingly formal notice was given to the Eajah. 
Thus commenced in A. d. 1831 the fifty years of 
British administration of Mysore. 



FAMILY TREES 

[N.B.' — Dotted lines indicate succession not in regular line.] 
Yadu (1399 to 1423). 

I 



Hiri Betad Chamaraj 1 (14'23 to 1458). 
I 
Timmaraja Wo.levar (145S to 147S). 

r ■ 

Hiri Chamarajarasa II (1478 to 1513). 

Betad Chamaraj III (1513 to 15:V2). 

\ 



Chs 



amaraja. 



I I I 

Timmaraj (1552 to 1571). Krishnaraj. Bole Cliamaraja IV (1571 to 1576). 



Betad Wodeyar | | 
(1576 to 157S). Rajadhi Raja. Betad Cliamaraja V. Muppin Devaraj. 
(1578 to 1617). 

I \ I I 1 
Narasa Raja. Betad Wodeyar. Nanjraj. Chamaraj. Im- 
[ madi Raja 
Chamaraja Wodeyar VI (1637-8). 
(1617 to 1678). 



Raja Wodey.ir 
(died young). 



Kanti rava Narasa 
(1638 to 105'J) . 



I I I Jr. 

Dod Devaraj. Chikka Devarajendra. Kempa Devavva. JIari Deva 

I (1659 to 1672). 



Chikka Devaraj (1672 to 1704), 
Kantlrava Narasa (1704 to 1713). 
Dod Krishna Raj (1713 to 1731). 



Kantlrava Narasa. 



Chamaraja VII 
(1731 to 1734). 



Chikka Krishnaraja 
(1734 to 1766). 



Nanjaraja (1767 to 1770). 



H. H. Sri Krishna Raja 
Wodeyar (1894— 

(The Present Ruler). 



Chamaraja VIII (1770 to 1775). 

Chamaraja IX (1775 to 1796). 

I 
Krishna Raja III (1800 to 1868). 

Cham'arajendra X (1868 to 1894). 



Prince, Kantlrava Narasa 
Raja Wodeyar 

(The Yuvaraj)- 



CHAPTER VI 
THE CHOLA EMPTBE IN SOUTH INDIA 

PART I— HISTORY 

1. The Ancient Cholas : The name Chola is given to a 
people, as well as to a dynasty of rulers, not only in 
ordinary parlance but also in literature, and reaches 
to the highest antiquity that literature or usage can 
take us. Who the people were, and where they came 
from, it seems well-nigh impossible to determine at 
present. That they were in the country that they 
occupied in historical times very much earlier than 
the beginning of history for South India, does not 
admit of any doubt whatsoever. The Cholas, as rulers, 
find mention in the Mahdbhdrata and the Epic and 
Puranic literature generally. The chronology of these, 
however, is yet matter for investigation. The first 
undoubted historical mention^ of these Cholas is in 
the second and thirteenth rock edicts of the great 
Mauryan emperor Asoka, who refers to these friendly 
Powers along with the great Potentates that made 
themselves heir to the empire of Alexander the Great. 
Passing down the stream of time, from the days of 
the great Maurya, whose fame spread through the whole 
of Asia, and even eastern Europe and Africa, the 
Cholas are spoken of as a source of trouble to the 
Ceylonese rulers set over against them in the neigh- 
bouring island. In the century immediately preceding 

' V. A. Smith's Asoka (2nd ed.), pp. 156 and 174. 



TAMIL LITERATUKE 91 

Christ there were six Tamil usurpers from the country 
of ' Soli ',^ according to the Malidvam.ia. In the centuries 
immediately following the advent of Christ, however, 
we seem to be at the gray dawn of South Indian 
history. The period between this and the rise of the 
Pallavas is the period of the high water-mark of Tamil 
literature; and our information, tliough not up to the 
requirements of modern historical criticism, is certainly 
more in volume and not altogether viilueless. It is 
most convincingly clear from this body of literature 
that there was a powerful dynasty of Chola rulers 
in the early centuries of the Christian Era. 

Before dealing with this dynasty of rulers there are 
a few names that find mention in this body of litera- 
ture which have to be considered. These are most 
of them Puranic names '' that have been adopted into- 
this body of literature by the genealogist. Genealogy 
making was regarded as a particular pastime of the 
eleventh century bards ; but these genealogists seem to- 
have had a much anterior vogue. Among the names 
mentioned in this manner are those of 'Sibi, who 
gave his life to save a dove; Kavera the father of 
the river Kavery ; Musugundan who helped Indra ; 
Manu who ran his car over his son in justice to a 
cow. Passing these over, there still is left a reference 
of a different character, when we come to a Chola 
called PerunjSrruchcholan. The first part of the word 
means ' the great food supplier ' ; and this is explained 
by reference to the Chola's having fed the armies of 
both the Pandava and Kaurava combatants on the 
occasion of the Great War. This, however, is a 
feature claimed alike by all the three — Chera, Chola 
and Pandya. One fact stands out clear from all this — 

1 Upham, Mahdvamsa, vol. i, p. 218. 

1' Silappadhikdram, Canto xxiii, 11. 58-9 and pp. 4S8-9 ; Mani- 
mekhalai, Canto 1, i. 5, note Pandit Swaminatba Iyer's edition. Also 
VA^iramx'solan uld. 



■■92 ANCIENT INDIA 

that when these rulers began to think of their pedigree 
they found that they could easily graft themselves 
•on the heroes of the Mahdbharata either directly or 
indirectly. Taking leave of these heroes as being 
beyond the pale of history, there come into view two 
■or three personages who must be regarded as quite 
historical. The first great Chola among them who 
demands our attention is the Chola Karikala. There 
are a number of his predecessors mentioned in the 
'Sangam works; but in our present state of knowledge 
of these it would be hazardous to attempt arranging 
them on any scheme, either genealogical or successional. 
Karikala's grandfather would appear to be Verpaha- 
radakkai Perunarkilli.* He was a contemporary of 
Kudakk5 Nedumseraladan, the Chera king, and they 
both fought and fell in battle on the same field. Poets 
who celebrated this sad catastrophe were contempora- 
ries of Karikala as well. Karikala's father is spoken 
of in these works as Uruvappaharer Ilayon or Ilanjet- 
-chenni. The latter part of this long name means a 
prince. It would appear therefrom that he never suc- 
ceeded to the throne. The father died a prince and 
the grandfather fell in battle, and so the grandson was 
left, when quite a young boy, heir to the throne of 
a kingdom not in the enjoyment of peace. Nor were 
causes wanting for civil dissensions. Young Karikala 
found himself a fugitive at Kariir after the disastrous 
battle in which his grandfather fell along with his 
■Chera enemy. It was from here that he was fetched 
to ascend the throne by the State elephant from Kalu- 
malam (Shiyali). He met with a serious fire accident 
from which he escaped with difficulty, though he was 
maimed for the rest of his life. It is from this early 
accident that he got the rather peculiar name of 

1 Purananarii. Reference in pp. S and 9. Pandit Swaminatha 
Iyer's edition. 



KAEIKALA 93 

' blackleg '. As a young man he had to sit as judge 
in a cause, the parties to which feared that the young 
man might miisjudge. He appeared as an old man to 
them, and the award he ga¥e was as sound, as that of 
a judge of the most mature experience. He had for 
his uncle a chief by name Pidarthalaiyan. He had 
married among the NangSr Vel family. He had to fight 
a great battle at Vennil (probably Koilvenni in the 
Tanjore district) ,i both the Chera and the Pandya 
having combined against him. His Pandya enemy is 
not specifically mentioned by name, though the Chera 
was almost certainly the ' 'Seraman Perumseraladhan'. 
This Chera felt the defeat so keenly that, like the Italian 
Charles Albert, he exiled himself and ended his days 
by starvation. Notwithstanding the sad fate of this 
great Chera, the war seems to have ended in a treaty 
which was sealed by a marriage. The heir presump- 
tive, or heir apparent, to the Chera throne married, 
either then or later, the Chola princess who is called 
Narchchonai.^ Peace had been secured on that side 
and along with it on the side of the Pandyas as well. 
He appears to have been among those that were a 
source of trouble to the Ceylonese ; for it was he that 
built the city of Kaverippattinam, to which he trans- 
ferred the head-quarters that had hitherto been at 
Uraivur near Trichinopoly. The construction of tbis^ 
city and the transference of the capital to it, perhaps 
after the definitive treaty with his immediate neigh- 
bours, would argue security on the one side and want 
of safety on the other. This is exactly what is re- 
flected in the Mnhavamsa. Gajabahu I of Ceylon heard 
from an old woman who was bewailing the loss of her 
only son, that twelve thousand Ceylonese were carried' 

1 Porunardrruppadai^ 11. 143-8 and other references under Karikfila. 
q, V. above, note (4). 

3 SilappadiJcaram, p. 10 and Canto xxix. 



"94 ANCIENT INDIA 

away by the Tamilians, in one of their recent inva- 
sions, to work in the ' town of Kavery ^' Having 
secured his frontier on the west and south, he trans- 
ferred his capital to the coast, both for purposes of 
•the flourishing commerce of those days and for the 
•defence of the sea frontier. He is given credit by 
the poets of the period with having carried his arms 
-^victoriously as far north as the Himalayas, on which 
he is said to have erected the tiger emblem of his 
family. His northern expedition is specifically mentioned 
in the Si^appadhikdram ; ^ and, what is even more, he 
is said by the same authority to have been on diplo- 
matic terms with the rulers of Magadha, Vajra (Bundal- 
khand) and Avanti, the second of these being a subdued 
enemy and the third a positive friend. These specific 
.assertions of a poet, only one generation removed from 
him, cannot be regarded as mere figments of the ima- 
.gination. Kaverippattinam in the days of Karikala 
seems to have been a great emporium of trade both 
inland and over sea. The poem Pattinappdlai is a mere 
■description of this city in the days of Karikala. He 
is besides uniformly credited with having made the 
■embankments for the Kavery.' The Chola kingdom 
(reached the height of its glory under him in the days 
anterior to Eajaraja the Great. He was none the less as 
a patron of letters. Pattmappdlai already referred to was 
composed in his honour for which the author received 
-the reward of a lakh and sixty thousand gold pieces. 
This lucky author lived on to celebrate another patron, 
Tondaman Ilandirayan * of Kanchi of a later generation. 
Other poets there were who flourished in his time 
and enjoyed his patronage as well. Among these must 

1 Upham's Mahdvamsa, vol. i, pp. 228-9, ch. 35. 

2 Page 139. 

3 EpigrapMst' s report, 190P, sec. 14. Large Leyden grant Arch. 
.Survey of S. I., vol. iv, etc. 

* Perumbanarrappadai. Pandit Swaminatha Iyer's Pattupattu. 



TONDAMAN ILANIRAYAN 95 

be mentioned Paranar, Kalathalaiyar, Vennikkuyathiyar, 
etc., all of Saugam fame. His reign must have been a 
long one, and when he passed away the succession fell 
to the lot of a son, or a grandson, by name Nedumu- 
dikkilli, also known with many another attribute. His 
reign also must have been a comparatively long one. 
He began with a victory over the Cheras and Pandyas 
at Kariyaru.' If this is to be connected with a river 
of the name in the Salem district, the allies must have 
advanced with a view to taking advantage of the new 
succession. The Chola was able to make his position 
good, with the aid of a valiant brother, who was 
probabh' the viceroy at Xanchi at the northern end of 
the Chola dominions. Killi's capital was also Kaverip- 
patnnam at the commencement c>f his reign. It was 
in his reign that Kaverippattinam was destroyed by 
the sea. He was the father of Tondaman Itandirayan, 
the ruler of Kanchi celebrated by Eudiranga:3nanar 
in his Perumhanarruppailai. This Tondaman was the 
offspring of a liaison between the Killi and a Naga 
princess who sent him to his father when the boy 
had grown old enough to leave the mother. A mishap 
to the ship brought about the neglect, on the part of 
the anxious father, to celebrate the annual festival 
to the patron goddess of the city.^ Hence the destruc- 
tion of the city. This great calamity struck a deadly 
blow at the prosperity of the city and its rulers ; and 
this misfortune may have been the occasion of a civil 
war among the several branches of the Chola family. 
It was in the course of this war that the Chera ruler 
Senguttuvan found occasion to intervene in behalf of 
his cousin, and defeating his enemies at Nerivayil,^ not 
far from Uraiyfir, restored somewhat the shattered 



1 Manimekhalai 1.XS. Vlij—Purananuiu 47. 

2 Manimekhali xiv, 11. 55-70 ; xxv, 11. 179-205. 

3 Silappadhikdram xxvii, II. 115-1-25 and PadirriippaUu, sec. 5, 



96 ANCIENT INDIA 

fortunes of the family. During the period of the Chera 
ascendencj' thus ushered in, the Cholas were able to 
maintain an independent existence, though with reduced 
territory and shorn of much of their glory. The rise 
of the Pandyas, almost simultaneously with the Pallavas, 
destroyed what was still left of their greatness and the 
Cholas of this period pass into darkness. During the 
period of decadence and decay of the Chola power 
and the advance of the Chera, the viceroyalty of Kanchi 
was cut off from the Chola kingdom by the wedge of 
a Chera viceroyalty in the Salem district.^ What had 
happened to the Tondaman of Kanchi, whether he 
founded a separate family of his own and whether 
that family had any connexion whatsoever with the 
Pallavas of history, are problems on which more light 
has to be thrown by further research before any answer 
can be ventured. During the three centuries of Pallava 
ascendency the Cholas are heard of only in a general 
way, and no particular details are forthcoming. But 
there is one Chola who may have to be referred to the 
early part of this, if not to a period somewhat anterior 
even. This Chola is known by the name Kuchchengau. 
He is credited with having defeated the Chera Kauaik- 
kalirumporai,^ whom he threw into prison. He is besides 
said to have won a bloody battle at Kalumalam (Shiyali), 
though his eaemies are not specifically mentioned. The 
Saivas claimed him among the Adiyars, while the 
Vaishriavas claim him equally among their benefactors. 
He was a great temple builder, and among these 
temples are mentioned both Siva and Vishnu shrines. 
He is definitely said to have built and dedicated 
seventy temples to Siva in a Vaishnava work. 

Passing on into the Age of the Pallavas, the 
Cholas find mention among those defeated both by 

1 Padir ruppattu, sec. 5. Silappadhikaram, Canto xxiv, last lines. 
^ Purandniiru 74, Kalavali 40, Periatirumoli 6. 



THE EARLIER CHOLAS 97 

the Pallavas themselves and their hereditary enetnies 
the Chalukyas. The wife of the Pandya king whom 
Tirugnanasambandar converted was a Chola princess. 
Beyond these few references Chola history during this 
period is an absolute blank. 

■i. The Earlier Cholas : The making of the empire 
now begins. All the time the Pallavas were in the as- 
cendent the Cholas had not passed out of existence, 
as has been pointed out already. They were a Power 
maintaining a precarious independence, hemmed in 
by the Pallavas on the one side and the Pandyas on 
the other. There appears to have been a branch of 
them ruling in the Ceded districts,^ in the days when 
the Chinese traveller Yuwan Chwang was in India. 
When the Pallavas began to decline in power in the 
south, the political condition of peninsular India was 
somewhat as follows. The Dekhan portion was divided 
into two parts, the western under the Rashtrakr;tas 
with their capital at Manyaketa ; the eastern under 
the Chalukyas with their capital at Eajamandri. The 
southern frontier of these was the Pennar, or perhaps 
a line somewhat farther south. The Pallava territory 
proper was divided among three connected branches 
of the Pallava family. The westernmost part of it 
was under the Gangas, who now begin to play 
a decisive part in the history of South India. Next 
last of tnem was the territory of the Banas called 
Ganga-Banas, and farther east near the coast was the 
dommion of the Pallavas themselves. It was the 
founder of the Eashtrakutas ^ that gave the coup de 
grace to the tottering Pallava Power ; but the new 
dvnasty had presently to turn its attention to the 
north, where the Giirjaras were rising fast to an 

1 Epigraphist's Report, 1906, sec. 5. 

2 Bombay Gazetteer, vol. i, pt. ii, pp. 389-90. 
Periyatirurtioli III, viii. 10. 

7 



98 ANCIENT INDIA 

imperial position. The Pallavas were, therefore, left 
unmolested for a time by them. It was under Govinda 
IV ' and his son Krishna III^ that the Bashtrakiitas 
were able to turn their attention to the south. The 
former was, however, kept fully engaged as a result 
of his intervention in a disputed succession to the 
Eastern Chalukya throne. The accession of his son 
to power was coeval with the rise of a usurper Peru- 
manadi Biituga in the Ganga kingdom. The Eashtra- 
kutas seem to have had a hand in this usurpation ^ 
as in the disputed succession in Vengi. Govinda's 
diplomatic efforts bore fruit in his son Krishna's reign. 
Krishna v/as able to advance southwards and was 
for some time in occupation of Kanchi and Tanjore. 
Simultaneously with this southward move of the 
Eashtrakutas was the march northwards of the Pandyas. 
A generation earlier than Krishna the Pandya Vara- 
guna^ advanced north to extend his power into Pallava 
territory, and was beaten back by a supreme effort 
on the part of the three connected dynasties, of the 
Ganga, Pallava, and Ban a. The battle at Tirup- 
parambium near Kumbhakonam sealed the doom of 
the Pandya against achieving an ascendency, and the 
occasion was taken advantage of by the Cholas. The 
latter then begin to carve out for themselves from 
their own patrimony as it were, a small kingdom 
which grew into a mighty empi)'e in the hands of 
their more powerful and enterprising successors. The 
Cholas beginning with Vijayalaya up to Eajaraja the 
Great, can therefore be called the makers of the Chola 
empire. 

Vijayalaya : The Pandya Varaguna already referred 
to in the previous paragraph came to the throne in 

1 Bombay Gazetteer I, pt. ii, p. 417. 

2 Epigraphia Indica vol. iii, 284-285. 

3 Epigraphia Indica vol. iv. 281. 

* Epigraphist's Report fo-r 1906, sees. 8-10. 



VIJAYALAYA 99 

A.D. 862-3. He invaded the Chola country and direct- 
ed his attack upon Idavai in the same country. It 
was in the same campaign that he stormed the fortress 
of Vembil.' He then marched as far north as Araisur 
on the Pennar in the southern Tondanadu from which 
he issued a grant. Against this aggressive Pandyan 
there was a combination brought about between the 
Gangas and the Ganga-Pallavas, before which he thought 
it prudent to retire. The allies were victorious at 
Tirupparambium near Kumbhakonam. In the battle 
the victorious Ganga Prithvlpati I fell, while the Ganga- 
Pallava Aparajita the overlord was rid of so trouble- 
some an enemy. He seems, however, not to have 
been able to recover much of the lost ground, perhaps 
owing to other movements in the north of his territory. 
The opportunity had now arrived for the Chola. Vija- 
yalaya was ready to take advantage • of the situation 
that was fast developing. He began extending his 
humble patrimony without awakening suspicion, and in 
the course of his long reign of thirty-four years at 
least, he was able to capture Tanjore and make it not 
only his capital, but also to leave records of his reign 
in such distant places as Ukkal, Conjeevaram, Tiruk- 
kovilur and Suchindram^ near Cape Comorin. Calcu- 
lating back from the known and verified date of 
Parantaka's initial year, Vijayalaya began his reign in 
about A. D. 846. 

Aditya : ^ The successor of Parakesarivarman Vijaya- 
laya, to whom are referable some at least of the 
records of a Parakesarivarman without any other 
distinctive appellation, was succeeded by his son 
Aditya I, Eajakesarivarman. Aditya I continued in 

1 Epigraphist's Beport for 1906, sec. 25. 
i Epigraphist's Report for 1909, sec. 35. : 

3 Ibid. 35 and references under Kielhorn's Southern List Epi. 
Ind., vol. vii, nos. 676-80. 



100 ANCIENT INDIA 

the forward policy of his father and conquered finally 
the Pallava Aparajita victor over the Pandya Vara- 
guna, and brought himself into touch with the 
Eashtrakutas on his northern frontier. If the Kongu- 
desardjakkal is worthy of any credit, he was also the 
conqueror of Kongu. The history of his successors 
seems only to confirm this so far. His was also a 
long reign of twenty-seven years and brings us to the 
reign of his son Parantaka I. 

Parantaka I, Parakesarivarman, Viranarayana, etc., 
A. D. (907-947). Parantaka succeeded to a kingdom of 
■considerable extent, and his frontiers touched the 
Pandya country in the south and south-west, Kerala 
in the west, the Bana and Vaidumba country in the 
north-west, and the eastern Chalukya and Rashtra- 
kuta countries in the north. He first attacked and 
overthrew the Pandya Pajasimha in battle before 
A. D. 910 having, perhaps previously, entered into 
a marriage alliance with the Keralas on his western 
flank. This secured him safety on the southern side. 
His next move appears to have been the subjugation 
of the Banas. He was enabled to follow in this 
policy unmolested, as the Rashtrakntas ^ were fully 
occupied with their own aggressions on their neigh- 
bours. Govinda IV of this dynasty was engaged on 
a fruitless, nay, suicidal intervention in a disputed 
succession to the eastern Chalukya throne. When 
Parantaka had repeatedly overthrown two Banas in 
succession he conferred their patrimony upon his ally 
the Ganga-Bana Prithvipati Hastimalla.^ His next 
conquest was that of the Vaidumbas, and the acqui- 
sition of their territory of the Vadugavali (the road 
to the Andhra or Telugu country). He ensured peace 
to his vast conquests in such a way that his reign 

1 Bombay Gazetteer, vol. i, pt. ii, pp. 416-7, 

2 South Iiid. Ins., vol. ii, no. 76. 



paeantaka 101 

marks the beginning of the reHgious activities of the 
period. The Kalamukha^ and Pasupata Saivas begin 
to find favour, and the earliest Vaishnava Acharyas^ 
commence their apostoKc work. Parantaka himself 
appears to have been a Saiva^ and did his pious duty 
to the great shrine at Chidambaram by renewing the 
gold plating of the great hall there. In his thirty- 
seventh* year or somewhat earlier he felt himself 
strong enough to venture on a successful invasion of 
Ceylon. After a long reign of at least forty years during 
which he extended and consolidated his patrimony, and 
secured his frontiers from hostile attack both by con- 
quest and diplomacy, Parantaka passed away. He left 
behind him five sons, among whom three appear to 
have ruled. His eldest son Eajakesarivarman Eajaditya 
succeeded Parantaka. The approach of the Cholas 
towards their southern frontier put the Eashtrakutas 
on the alert, and their hand is clearly discernible in 
the usurpation of the Ganga kingdom by Perumanadi 
Butuga,^ a son-in-law of Am5ghavarsha and a brother- 
in-law of Krishna HI. This threw that frontier into 
confusion and insecurity, and Eajaditya promptly 
marched forth to set matters right. A bloody battle 
at TakkSlam was the result. Eajaditya was killed on 
the field of battle by Biituga, who managed to mount 
the elephant of the Chola and kill him. This event 
took place in a.d. 949-50,* Krishna III took advantage 
of his victory to the full, marched into the Chola 
country and was in occupation of Kanchi for a while ; 
and, what was even more of a calamity to the Cholas, 



1 Epigraphist's Report for 1909, sec. 37. 

2 Vide the Chapters on Ramanuja and Tirumangai AlvSr. 

3 Leyden grant and KaUngattupparani. 
i Reference under note 2 above. 

!> Bombay Gazetteer, vol. i, pt. ii, pp. 304 and 418. 
6 J.R.A.S. for 1909, pp. 443-5. 



102 ANCIENT INDIA 

he laid siege to Tanjore.* Gandaradittan, the second 
son of Parantaka, succeeded his elder brother and did 
his best to beat back the enemy and prevent his 
getting a permanent hold upon the Chola kingdom, 
not altogether without success. The Eashtrakuta 
power had hardly twenty more years to run, and there 
were already the premonitory symptoms of the coming 
storm. Anyhow the Cholas had some little respite 
given them to recover lost ground. Gandaradittan 
has left behind him memorials of his rule in the 
town that bears his name, and the fifth ' Tiruvisaippa ' 
in which he calls himself ruler of Tanjore. His 
devoted and pious widow built a temple at Koneri- 
rajapnram,^ and erected a statue of her late husband 
which is to be seen in the temple even now. He 
left behind him a son, probably a baby, and was 
succeeded by his brother Aiinjaya, or as he is sometimes 
called, Arjuna. The other two sons of Parantaka were 
prince Uttamaslli and one Arikulakesarin, who held 
high command both under his father Parantaka I and 
under his elder brother Eajakesarivarman Arinjaya. ' 
This last may have been the person referred to by the 
name Madiraikonda Eajakesarivarman. The attribute 
Madiraikonda may be due to either a particular 
achievement of his own or borrowed from his father's. 
Arinjaya was succeeded by his son Parantaka II, 
Sundarachola. In this reign there appears to have 
been trouble on the Pandya side, and this ended un- 
favourably for the rebels through the exertions of 
the Chola, ably supported by the efforts of his general 
^iriyavelan. The Pandya king had to find ' shelter 
in the desert '. ■• This seems to be the achievement 



1 South Ind. Ins., vol. iii, 7. 

2 Kpigraphist's Report, 1909, sec. 41. 

3 EpigraphisV s Report, sees. 38-9. 
^Ibid. sec. 40. 



UTTAMA CHOLA 103 

that is reflected in the statement that Aditya II ' while 
a boy played sportively in battle with the head of 
Vira Pandya '. The yet unidentified battle of Chevur 
may also refer to the same achievement against the 
Pandya. Parantaka II was succeeded by his son 
Aditya II, Karikala, of whom but little is known be- 
yond the achievement against the Pandya, as a boy. 
He was followed on the throne by his first cousin 
Parakesarivarman Uttama Chola. His accession took 
place in a. d. 969-70. His succession does not appear 
to have been altogether beyond question. If the 
recently discovered Tiruvalangadu plates* are to be 
believed Eajaraja was probably the favourite. He, 
however, would seem to have declined to be the 
cause of a civil war. If Rajaraja really did this he ought 
in the circumstances, to be counted a genuine patriot. 
The accession of L'ttama Chola was coeval with the 
invasion of the Rashtrakuta dominions by the Paramaras 
of Malva under Harsha and his successor Munja, who 
carried their arms up to the capital Manyaketa itself- 
This catastrophe was taken advantage of by their 
enemy within, the Chalukyas, who under Taila II 
overthrew the EashtrakQtas and restored their fallen 
dynasty to power. The latter's relative r^Iarasimha, the 
son of the Ganga Biituga, was able to do nothing 
more than recognize one of his nephews as the 
paramount ruler.^ This naturally brought on a strug- 
gle between the Gangas and the Chalukyas, and gave 
the much-longed for occasion to the Cholas. At this 
critical moment in South Indian History appeared 
Bajaraja, the Great. 

3. The Great Cholas : Rajaraja was nominated suc- 
cessor when Madhurantaka Uttama Chola ascended the 
throne in A. d. 969-70; and became Sovereign in his 

1 EpigrapMst' s Report for 1906, sees. 11 and ff. 

2 Bombay Gazetteer, vol. i, pt. ii, pp. i22-4. 



104 ANCIENT INDIA 

own right in A. D. 985. Except for the Pandyas in 
the southern corner and the Keralas beyond the ghats, 
he was master of the Tamil country south of the 
Pennar. The Pandyas were likely to give trouble ; 
the Keralas might stir ; but the greatest vigilance 
was required on the north-west where the Chalukyas 
were fast setting their newly acquired territory m 
order to bring the loyal Ganga kingdom into allegiance 
to themselves. In the eastern Chalukya dominions 
matters were not more satisfactory either. There was 
about this time an interregnum, which may have 
been the result of a civil war. These two regions were 
ripe for intervention by a powerful ruler inclined to 
make his influence felt. No prudent ruler of any 
ideas of lasting ambition could think of advancing so 
far out without setting his flank and rear in safety. 
For the first ten years Eajaraja I seems to have 
devoted himself to this work entirely. It is to his 
twelfth year that we must refer for his first con- 
quest and that is a victory over the Chera fleet in 
the ' Eoads of Kandalur '. In the course of two years 
he had conquered Gangappadi, Nulambappadi, Tadigai- 
vali, and Vengainadu. Of these the first two con- 
stituted the bulk of Mysore which, for the next 
century and more, was the bone of contention be- 
tween the Cholas and the Chalakyas. The last was 
the territory of the Eastern Chalukyas and the inter- 
regnum was taken advantage of by the Chola to im- 
pose his dominion on them. This seems to have 
been successfully done by Eajaraja, who gave the 
second ruler after the interregnum by name Vima- 
laditya his daughter Kundavvai in marriage. The 
Eastern Chalukyas for the rest of the period of the 
Chola ascendency were loyal to the supremacy of the 
Cholas. Tadigai-vali was between the two former. 
He had also put down the rebel Pandyas by the 
fourteenth year. By the sixteenth year Eajaraja had 



EAJAKAJA 105 

added to his conquests Kollam (Quilon in Travancore) 
and Kalingam (Orissa). By the twentieth year he had 
asserted his authority over llam (or Ceylon). The 
conquest of the Ganga and Nolamba territories were 
not acquiesced in by the Chalukyas as was aUeady 
pointed out ; and now began that duel which lasted 
on to the year a.d. 1117. It was between the years 
twenty and twenty-four of Eajaraja that he is said to 
have invaded Eattappadi seven and a half lac country ; 
and he claims having defeated the Chalukya Satyas- 
raya. This twenty-sixth year is the year in which 
Eajaraja got the bulk of his inscriptions incised in 
the Tanjore Temple, a record of gifts and offerings 
made by himself, his queens, his sister the Pallava 
lady Kundavvaiyar, and others. His list of conquests 
comes to an end with the mention of his acquisition 
of ' the twelve thousand ancient islands of the sea ' 
in his twenty-ninth year. This year appears to have 
been his last and would take us on to the year A. d. 
1012. Eajaraja's conquests came to a close practically 
in A. D. 1005. He had settled the boundary of the 
Chola empire on the northern and north-western side. 
A somewhat irregular line drawn from Yedatore Xad 
2,000 to the Tungabhadra along the line of separation 
between the Malnad and Maidan districts of Mysore, 
and then continued along the river to where it meets 
the Krishna, and then on to the sea, this line would 
mark off the Chola country proper. Along the coast, 
however, the Chola power extended through the dis- 
tricts of the Madras Presidency to Vizagapatam, 
although Kalingam farther north is also among the 
conquests of Eajaraja. His son Eajendra was evi- 
dently crowned while yet the father was alive in a. d. 
1011-2. Eajaraja was known as Arumoli Deva when 
heirapparent under Madhurantaka. He assumed in the 
third year of his reign the title Mummudichola and 
towards the close of his reign, the title Jayairngonda, 



106 ANCIENT INDIA 

He is also known as Eajasraya. He was, all things 
•considered, the greatest of these great Cholas, not only 
because of his great conquests, but also in the more 
humane field of constructive administration. 

Bajendra, the Gangaigondachola, otherwise Mudi- 
gonda, Nigarili and Uttamachola, was quite a worthy 
son of a great father. As a prince he seconded with 
energy the efforts of his father, and that this was so 
is borne out by his early records, which state that he 
' conquered with his great and warlike army Idaitturai- 
nadu, Vanavasi whose warriors (were protected by) 
walls of continuous forests, Kollippakkai, whose walls 
were surrounded by sulli (trees), Mannaikkadagam (a 
town in the Nelamangala Taluk, of the Bangalore 
District, perhaps represented by Biidihalu), of un- 
approachable strength '. All these are places along 
the frontier between the Cholas and the Chalukyas 
and are situate along the boundary marked out above 
His next exploit was the conquest of I'am. He took 
from the king of this island ' the crown of the king, 
the exceedingly beautiful crown of the queen, the 
crown of Sundara and the pearl necklace of Indra, 
w'hich the king of the south (the Pandya) had previ- 
<3usly given up to that (king of Ilam) ; the whole of 
Ilamandalam '. This, together with the crown, ' the 
garland of the sun ', and the family treasures of the 
king of Kerala entitled him to the surname Mudi- 
gondachola which he assumed before the si.^th year 
of his reign. These records lay claim to the conquest 
of many ancient islands. This is probably a mere 
echo of his father's achievements. By his ninth year 
he added the ' impregnable Sandimattivu where Para- 
surama had lodged a gold crown worthy of Lakshmi 
the goddess ; defeated the Chalukya Jayasimha at 
Muyangi and conquered Eattappadi seven and a half 
lac country ; and the principal great mountains (which 
contained) the nine treasures (of Kubera).' Eecords of 



GANGAIKONDA CHOLA 107 

his twelfth year claim for him the following additions 
to his list of conquests : ' Sakkarakottam (Chakra- 
kota) belonging to Vikramavira ; Madura-mandalam 
with the fort of Mudiri-pada ; Namanaikkonam ; Pancha- 
ppalli of Yenjilaivira ; Masuni-desam ; the family and 
other treasures of Dhlraratha of the race of the 
Moon, after defeating him in the hall of Adinagar 
Oddavishaya whose waters are Jmrd to approach 
Kusalai-nadu where Brahmins assemble ; Dandabntti 
(Dandabhukti) after having destroyed Dharmapala in 
hot battle ; Dakkana Latam after having forcibly 
attacked Kanasura ; Vangaladesam from which Govinda- 
chandra fled, having lost his fortune ; elephants of 
rare strength after a hot battle with Mahlpala of 
Sangukkottam which touches the sea ; and Gangn, 
whose waters sprinkle tirthas on the burning sand .' 
Many of the details in this long list have to be left 
unexplained in our present state of historical know- 
ledge ; but it would be rash to dismiss these as mere 
figments of a diseased imagination in the face of the 
recently discovered Tiruvalangada plates which appar- 
ently confirm several of these details. These plates 
were composed in the sixteenth year of Rajendra, and 
contain what looks like a quite unvarnished tale of 
the contemporary political condition of India, although 
Rajendra may not be given credit for all that the re- 
cord may claim as his conquest. According to this 
record Rajendra first conquered the Pandya country 
and appointed his son Chola-Pandya as viceroy ; he 
then turned upon Kerala and added it on to his son's 
charge. He then started upon his more distant ex- 
peditions overcoming the Chalnkya Jayasimha. After 
this he sent his general to the banks of the Ganges. 
Indraratha of the lunar race was overcome, the 
wealth of Ranasilra was seized, and the country of 
Dharamapala was subdued. The Chola general got 
the vanquished kings — among whom was Mahipila 



108 ANCIENT INDIA 

(of Bengal) — to carry the water of the Ganges for his 
master. This is plainly an imitation of the supposed 
achievement of ^enguttuvan Sera of the ^ilappadhi- 
karam ; but none the less does it seem to be true 
that he brought the Ganges water to purify the great 
tank which he constructed at Gangaikondasolapuram, 
and which he named with pardonable egotism ' the 
pillar of Victory '. This again is an imitation of the 
deed ascribed to an ancient Chola who let the water 
of the Ganges into that of the Kavery. The Chola 
general then captured the king of Orissa with his 
younger brother, before Eajendra returned to his 
capital. On a subsequent occasion he crossed the sea 
and captured Kadaram, having taken on the way the 
Nicobars and other places. This oversea achievement 
of Eajendra is found graphically described in inscrip- 
tions of his nineteenth year, and is believed to be the 
source of the Kanarese drama Bajasekheravilasa. This 
nineteenth year is probably the last of his conquering 
years. Allowing the fullest for the possible exaggera- 
tion of the panegyrist, there is still enough left to 
regard Eajendra as one of the greatest of Indian 
conquerors. The remaining twelve years of his reign 
he must have devoted to improving the efficiency of 
the administration, which had been laid out and 
handed on by a line of rulers, who take high rank 
among the world's rulers. Devotee of the war-god as 
he seems to have been, he could not have neglected 
the arts of peace, if he applied the great accumu- 
lation of wealth, not only to outdo his father's mag- 
nificence in the building of a capital and temple at 
Gangaikondasolapuram ; but also in the building of a 
magnificent tank, the bund on one side of which ran 
sixteen miles in length, and which was intended to 
irrigate a half from each of two districts. It was an 
act of modern and civilized vandalism that pulled 
down the bund and temple walls to build the lower 



EAJADHIEAJA 109 

anicut on the Koleroon. Perhaps it was ah-eady 
falling, or had fallen into disrepair very badly ; all 
the same there is not much left, it is said, of this 
magnificent piece of work, as Pharaoh's Gazetteer 
of the early nineteenth century calls it. Eajendra's 
last known year is the thirty-first and this would 
take us to the year a. d. 104'2-3. He had, according 
to the custom of the family, associated with himself 
one of his sons from the year a. d. 1018. This son 
was Eajadhiraja though he was not the eldest, for 
among those honoured with titles by him on his 
accession were an uncle (paternal) and an elder 
brother by name Alavandan. 

Eajadhiraja, Jayarugondachola : Eajadhiraja ruled 
from 1012, the thirty-first year of Eajendra I to the 
year a. d. 1052, the year of the battle of Koppam 
where he fell. He and his brother Eajendra are 
regarded as brothers of Eajendra I by Mr. Eice, who 
does not assign, however, any reason in support of 
the view. From the statement made as to the break 
of succession by the death of Eajendra (by mistake 
for Eajadhiraja) in the battle of Koppam, it would 
appear that these two brothers were the sons of their 
predecessor, for otherwise the succession need not be 
considered as having ceased in the regular line. The 
two brothers succeeded Eajendra I one after the other. 
Eajadhiraja had an uncle (a younger brother of his 
father), and an elder brother as has been already stated. 
The fact that he was crowned by Eajendra I in lOlS, 
while yet the latter was alive, would confirm the view 
that he was the son of his predecessor. Of this ruler 
a western Chalukya inscription of a. d. 1071, at Anni- 
gere ^ in the Darwar district states that ' the wicked 
Chola who had abandoned the religious observances 
of his family, penetrated into the Beluvola country 

1 Bombay Gazetteer, vol. i, pt. ii, p. 441. 



110 ANCIENT INDIA 

and burnt the Jain temples which Ganga Perumanadi, 
the lord of Gangamandala, v/hile governing Beluvola, 
had built in Annigerenad ; ' and that ' the Chola 
eventually yielded his head tc Somesvara in battle, 
and thus losing his life broke the succession of his 
family.' This quotation shov7s that the Ghola con- 
quest of Gangavadi was no mere idle boast ; that 
the Gangas who had become the feudatories of the 
western Chalukyas did not acquiesce in the conquest ; 
and that at one time, at least, the Cholas carried fire 
and sword through the southern part of the Eatta 
country. Eajadhiraja wherever he was engaged before, 
had to concentrate all his energies in keeping the 
frontiers quiet as soon as he became independent ruler 
after a. d. 1042. There seems to have been a tendency 
to throw off the yoke on the part of all the subordinate 
allies of the Chola. He began by conferring upon 
his uncle, elder brother and four of his younger brothers 
the dignities of rulers over the Cheras, the Chalukyas, 
the Pallavas, the Gangas, the Pandyas and the people 
of Lankha. These were so many provinces which 
carried along with them the responsibilities of Lords 
or Wardens of the Marches. As to the ' Lord of 
Kanouj ' it is only a title, probably taken from the 
victory os'er a king of Ceylon who was reputed to 
have come from Kanouj. This done, he marched upon 
his enemies in succession taking the easiest first and 
meting out exemplary punishment to the traitors. He 
attacked the three allied Pandyas. The first of them, 
jNIanabharana, was decapitated; the second, Vira-Kerala, 
was trampled by an elephant ; and the third, Sundara 
Pandya, was expelled to MuUaiyur. He destroyed one 
of the kings of Venad (Travancore), and wearing the 
garland of vanji (symbolical of going to war with a 
play upon the word, the name of the old capital) put 
to flight a Chera king and won a naval victory in 
the ' Eoads of Kandalur.' 



KAJADHIEAJA 111 

He next turned his attention to the Chalukya 
frontier and this time acted through his i^eneral 
Kevadan. The Chalukyas had to retreat under the 
princes Vikramaditya, ^'ijayaditya and Jayasimha, leav- 
ing two generals Gandappaiyan and Gangadharan dead. 
The victorious Cholas took advantage of this success, 
pressed on the retreating force and set tire to KoHip- 
pakkai one of the Chalukya capitals. Having disposed 
of his other enemies, he could now turn to Ceylon 
where four successive rulers suffered disgrace and death 
at his hands. They were Yikramabahu, Vikrama 
Pandu, Virasalameghan and Srivallabha Madanarajan. 
Since the Mahdvainsa concedes these victories over 
the Ceylon kings, Rajadhiraja may be given credit for 
these achievements of his. On his return from Ceylon, 
he defeated in an expedition northward Gandardina- 
karan, Naranan, Ganapati and MadhusCidhanan, before 
entering the Chalukya dominions and destroying their 
gardens and palaces at Kampili. Collecting the tributes^ 
from one and all of these Powers without remission,. 
and collecting ' his sixth share ' of the produce he 
could well assume the title Jayanigondachola and 
enjoy a brief respite before he lost his life in the 
battle of Koppam on the Tungabhadra, which would 
better suit the circumstances of the case than Koppam 
on the Palar. This tale of conquests of Rajadhiraja 
shows that but for his energetic action the empire 
built by his two predecessors would have gone to pieces. 
He brought all the revolted provinces back to their alle- 
giance, and handed the empire down to his successors 
intact ; but it was even now that we find amono the 
feudatories of the Chalukya SOmesvara the name of the 
Hoysala Vinayaditya, in whose line was to be born Nara- 
simha and his son Yira Somesvani, who were to play 
the role of protectors of the Cholas when their empire 
was fast crumbling through internecine dissensions and 
the onsets of the P'andyas.. This is yet far ahead. 



112 ANCIENT INDIA 

Eajadhiraja was succeeded by his younger brother 
Eajendra, who was present at, and played a prominent 
part in, the battle of Koppam where his brother fell. 
The earliest of his inscriptions, that of his third 
year, mentions his achievement at the battle where 
he was ' crowned ', and so his reign could not have 
begun much earlier. This does not debar his having 
been associated with his brother in his career of 
conquest. An inscription at HeggadedevanakOte in the 
Mysore district couples Saka 984 with his twelfth 
year, and this would give Saka 972 or a. d. 1050 for 
the commencement of his reign, although the battle 
of Koppam has been calculated to have taken place 
on May 23, A. D. 1053. Eajendra then ruled from 
1050 to at least a. d. 1062. His chief achievement 
is the restoration of the fortunes of the Cholas in the 
battle of Koppam which proves to be the turn in 
the tide of the Chola conquest. Perhaps already 
trouble was brewing at home and there might have 
been others who would have contested the suc- 
cession. His other achievements are a reconquest 
of Ceylon, but certain discrepancies of the names 
of the conquered Ceylon rulers would lead one 
to suppose that the achievements of Eajendra might 
have been only what he had done on behalf of his 
brother. That he was in Ceylon is borne out by 
inscriptions of his reign being found there. Eajendra 
is credited with having erected a pillar of victory at 
Kollapui-am (Kolhapar). His daughter, Madhurantaki, 
was married to the eastern Chalukya Prince Eajendra, 
the son already of the daughter of the Gangaikonda 
Chola, by name Ammangadevi. This prince was to 
become later on the Chola emperor Kulottunga 
Eajendra was succeeded by his son Eajamahendra of 
whom nothing more is known than that he dispensed 
justice even better than Manu, the ancient Chola who 
rode his car over his own son, in justice to a cow 



SUCCESSION OR USURPATION 113 

■which lost its calf through the negligence of the prince. 
He is said to have made some benefactions to the 
temple at Srirangam. There is available an inscription 
of the second year of his reign. It was in succession 
to this ruler that we have another great Chola, whose 
connexion with his predecessors is not so clear and 
whose accession at the time seems to be regarded an 
act of usurpation. To understand the nature of the 
complications thus introduced, we have to go back 
upon a generation or two of South Indian history. 
Ahavamalla and his immediate predecessors have had 
one single object before them constantly ; namely, the 
keeping back of the advancing tide of Chola aggression. 
In this Ahavamalla was in the main successful. The 
title Ahavamalla, the great in war, was well-deserved 
by him and he carried on successfully the wars with 
the Cholas bequeathed to him by his predecessors.' 
It was also he who either founded (or enlarged) the 
Chalukya capital Kalyani in the Nizam's dominions, 
and he shifted to it the head-quarters of the empire 
from Yatagiri also in the Nizam's dominions (thirty 
miles, south of Malkhed'.^ In this attempt at holding 
the southern frontier against the Cholas, he was ably 
seconded by his sons, Sumesvara and Vikramaditya, 
the viceroys respectively of Banavase and Gangavadi. 
When Ahavamalla died in a. d. 1068.^ (March 29), he, 
was succeeded naturally enough by his eldest son, 
Somesvara Bhuvanaikamalla ; but unfortunately for 
the empire, his younger brother Vikramaditya was 
certainly the more capable of bearing the burdens of 

1 Sataya^rya and Jayasimha were respectively, rivals of Rijaraja 
and his son Eajendra. Bombay Gazeteer, vol. i, part ii, 433. 

2 Fleet 450. Ibid. Epi. Car. VII. Sh. 20 a. Jayasimha Devar 
Nija Vijaya Kataka Samanvitam Lila Vilasadind Etagirila Nelevldinol, 
etc' 

' Epi. Car. vol. vii, Sk. 136, Shimoga, pt. i. 



114 ANCIENT INDIA 

empire. The other sons of Ahavamalla, Jayasimha 
and Vishnuvardhana Vijayaditya, were more inclined 
to support Vikramaditya rather than Somesvara. 
Dm-ing Ahavamalla's lifetime these young princes were 
already given important viceroyalties and were made 
to regard themselves ' Pillars of Empire ' as their 
respective titles would show. Somesvara, Vikrama- 
ditya and Jayasimha appear to have been sons of the 
same mother, the Ganga princess ' as the Vikraman- 
tkadeva Charitam appears to warrant and as inscrip- 
tions ^ of Somesvara II himself would lead us to believe ; 
while Vijayaditya was possibly their half-brother. 
"While investing Lakshmana as governor of Banavase, 
in return for valuable services rendered to the empire, 
Somesvara says : ' junior to me is Vikrama, to him is 
'Singhi junior ; to me, Vikrama, and to Singhi you are 
junior and all the rest are junior to 5'ou'. 

But from the titles of each of these princes Mr. Eice 
would infer that Vikramaditya was the son of a 
Ganga princess, Jayasimha of a Pallava-Nolamba 
princess and Vijayaditya of an eastern Chalukya 
princess. This is not a necessary inference, the titles 
of these princes being explained by the mere facts 
of their conferment upon the princes by the ruling 
emperor. Such investitures have been the fashion 
among the Chola emperors, their contemporaries. 
Eajadhiraja, Eajendra Virarajendra in succession made 
it a point to hold investitures of the sort and a 
number of titles importing authority over foreign states 
has been bestowed on Chola princes of the blood.''' 

Ahavamalla Somesvara left behind him four sons, the 
eldest succeeding him, while the second had cherished 
imperial ambition for sometime at least. 



iDr. Fleet thinks she was a Pallava Princess, Iv. D. i40, note 3. 

3 Vol. vii, Sk. 136, Epi. Gar. 

3 Vide the inscriptions of these in vol. iii, pt. i, South Bid. Ins. 



RETROSPECT 115 

To understand the situation among the Cholas, we 
have similarl)' to go back upon the rise of their power. 
The Chola Power rose from the ashes of the Pallavas 
the earhest conquests of the Cholas having been the 
Tondamandalam, re-named Jayamgonda Cholamandalam 
and Kongu. One of the mightiest and the most states- 
man-like exploits of the si'eat Eajaraja (a.d. 985-1016^ 
was the conquest and the subsequent conciliation of 
the eastern Chalukya dominions of Vengi, i. e. the 
Telugu country. To attach this to him permanently 
he married one of his daughters Kundavvaiyar to the 
Chalukya Yimaladitya. This was followed in the next 
reign by a more important marriage — more fruitful of 
consequences to the Empire. Kajendra, the Gangai- 
konda Chola, had a daughter Ammanga Devi, who had 
been given in marriage to the eastern Chalukya Eaja- 
raja, probably her own C(iusin. The offspring of this 
happy union was a Eajendra Chola who was to become 
famous as Kulottunga, ' the upraiser of the fame of the 
two families . This grandson of Gangaikonda Chola 
had married the daughter of Bajendra, the victor over 
Ahavamalla at Koppam, and when this Eajendra died, 
the son-in-law aspired to the Chola empire, although 
there was a brother and at least a number of sons of 
Eajadhiraja. This ambition, unwarranted though it 
appears, seems to have had some support among the 
royal family. This in fact was the discordant element 
in the Chola Empire. About a. d. 1070, therefore, 
Somesvara Bhuvanaikamalia was the emperor of the 
Chalukya dominions, while his younger brother Yikra- 
maditya was an aspn-ant to the imperial position. In 
the Chola empire Eajendra was succeeded by his 
younger brother Virarajendra, while liajondra Chola of 
the eastern Chalukya dynasty was equally an aspirant 
to the empire, which brought him within an ace of 
losing his own patrimony of the Chalukya kingdom. 
These transactions, we shall now take up in some detail. 



116 ANCIENT INDIA 

The Choi a emperor Virarajendra had the following 
among his titles, which he probably assumed as a re- 
sult of his achievements against the western Cha- 
lukyas, namely, Sakalabhuvanasraya, Srlmedhinivallabha, 
and Maharajadhiraja. He assumed also another Eaja- 
sraya, which before him had been borne by Eajaraja, the 
Great. Two others, by the former of which alone he 
was spoken of by the western Chalukyas,^ were Vira 
ChoJa and Karikala. In one of Bajendra's inscriptions 
we find a brother of his, by name Vira Chola, on 
whom he conferred the title Karikala, and if these 
two persons, Virarajendra the emperor and Vira Chola 
the prince, could be identified as the Mysore inscrip- 
tion would justify, Virarajendra was a brother of the 
two brothers Eajadhiraja and Eajendra the heroes of 
Koppam. This along with ' the twenty-third year of 
(my) father (Suj/t), who was pleased to conquer the 
eastern country, the Granga and Kadaram ' of the 
Gangaikondasolapuram inscription of the fifth year of 
Virarajendra, would solve another puzzle of Chola 
genealogy. This quotation refers to the great con- 
queror Gangaikonda Chola, Eajendra the son and 
successor of Eajaraja the Great. His conquests of 
territories on the banks of the Ganges and the Ira- 
waddy have now happily been placed beyond a doubt, 
thanks to the researches of Messrs. Venkyya and 
Kanakasabhai Pillai,' by the identification of Nacca- 
varam with the Nicobars and Pappalam which accord- 
ing to the Mahdvamsa of Ceylon is a port of Ea- 
mahha, i. e. the Talaing country portion of Burma. 
Thus then the known facts so far clearly point to 
Virarajendra as the younger brother succeeding the 
elder, although according to the Kalingattuparani and 



1 E]ji. Car. vol. vii. Sk. ]36. 

2 Article in the iladras Beiieu; jSTovember, 1903. 



CHOLAS AND CHALUKYAS 117 

a few inscriptions ' we have to accoiumoilate a Raja- 
mahendra between the victor at Koppam and his 
successor brother Vlrarajendra. Either it is that Kaja- 
niahendra died a Yui'araja without independently 
reigning or he was set aside ; but the latter conclusion 
does not appear to be warranted, as this ^^Irara]- 
endra had an elder brother in the person of Alavaiulau 
alias Eajaraja. and, as will appear, ^'u•arajend^a him- 
self was associated -with liis brother Rajendra in his 
expeditions into the Chalukya territory. Rajamahendra, 
the son of Eajendra, then died soon after his father 
and A'lrarajendra ascended the throne. 

For three generations the Cholas and the Chalu- 
kyas were contending for ulaster^ in Peninsular India. 
The Rashtrakuta Krishna III ably seconded by his 
feudatories the Gangas had brought the rising Chola 
power low indeed. As these Eashtrakntas themselves 
were subverted, the opportunity for the Cholas arrived 
and the father and son, Rajaraja and Eajendra, took 
the tide at the flood. Wliile the father conquered 
and organized the younger, the son went on advanc- 
ing the Chola arms into the Mysore country, took pos- 
session of eastern and southern Mysore and advanced 
the Chola frontier to Yedatorenad '2,000 in the west 
and Kollippakkai on the Banavase frontier in the north- 
west. Lattalur, Kollippakkai and Henjeru (Penjeru) 
were the gates of the Chalukya empire from the 
south. This was regarded as of so much importance 
that the warden of this frontier was a marked official, 
often a relative of the Chalukya emperors. In a. d. 
1060 a Eatta, named Singana Ueva, was ruler of this 
part of the country. He has been described as 'a 
dweller at his lotus feet (of Trail^kyamalla), entitled 
to the five big drums, Mahamandalesvara, (lord of) 

1 Alangudi Ins. of Rajardja 11, page 191; South. Tnd. Ins., vol. 
iii, pt. ii. 



118 ANCIENT INDIA 

Lattalur, ornament of the Ya,duvamsa, chief of 
Kollippakkai, determined champion over the chief of 
Penjeru (Henjeru,) an elephant to the lotus-garden of 
the Chola and Lala feudatories, the door of the southern 
region,' the Kalakuta poison to hostile kings, his 
father-in-law's lion, the Meru of the Eattas — with 
these and all titles the Mahamandalesvara Singana 
Deva, was ruling the kingdom (composed of) the 
Qchchangi thirty, the Siilengal seventy, the Mandali 
thousand, the four Chola villages, with the stones 
and treasures, the thousand force and others, putting 
down the evil and upholding all.' 

Having done this great work Eajendra laid down 
this earthly authority and position, and then the 
troubles rose up all over again, as a succession is the 
occasion for enemies. The rulers who followed next 
had to fight the wars over again ; but then these were 
only in the farthest frontiers. Ceylon, Madura and 
Malabar were easily brought back to a sense of 
allegiance, but not so this Tungabhadra frontier, where 
it was not a question of allegiance but of mastery. 
The wars were, therefore, prolonged and continued 
almost from year to year. Invasions and counter inva- 
sions were the order of the day. The Cholas had taken 
occasion once to plant a pillar of Victory at Kolla- 
puram (Kolhapur). 

The great battle at Koppam in 10-53 did not settle the 
matter finally. Each party claimed the victory though 
the advantage certainly lay with the Cholas. The Chalu- 
kyas continued to appoint governors of Gangavadi 
(with head-quarters first at Balgamve and then at 
Halebidu), although the Cholas had the territory 
certainly under them. When, therefore, Virarajendra 
came to the throne about A. D. 1062-3 he had to be 



1 (See Shikarpur 32.3, Epi. Car. VII KoUippakke, the door of 
the south.) 



ViEARAJBNDBA 119 

very active on this side. From his inscriptions it 
appears that he five times fought the Chalukyas in 
the region of the Tungabhadra. In three of these he 
fought against SOmesvara Ahavamalla (a.d. 1044-68). 
Rajendra was crowned on the battle-field of Koppam 
in A. D. 10-53, and an inscription of the twelfth year of 
his reign is known, although this ought to be, accord- 
ing to Prof. Kielhorn's calculation, the eleventh year. 
This would take us on to a.d. 106'2, but this need not 
be the case, as with respect to the Cholas there was 
always an overlapping of reigns owing to the practice 
of Yuvaraja's being associated in the administration 
by the reigning monarch.'' The first achievement of 
Virarajendra was the beating back of prince Vikra- 
maditya from Gangavadi. ' (He) drove from the battle- 
field in Gangap-padi into the Tungabhadra the Maha- 
samantas, whose strong hands wielded cruel bows, 
along with Vikkalan who fought under a banner that 
inspired strength.' In a. d. 1050 Vikramaditya was 
ruler of Gangavadi 96,000, Banavase 12,000 with Hari- 
kesarin of the family of the Kadambas of Hangal, as 
his deputy in charge of the latter district.^ In a. d. 
1058 Kadambalige thousand is placed under Chalukya 
Ganga Perumanadi. Two years later, Trailr.kymalla, 
Chalukya, Ganga Perumanadi Vikramaditya Deva was 
ruhng the Gangavadi 96,000. These mscriptions at 
Davanigere' are borne out by the Shikarpur inscrip- 
tions.' According to these latter he was viceroy, 
with head quarters at Balligave (Balgame), of Ganga- 
vadi, with Banavdse, Santahge and Nolambavadi. 
During the fifties of the eleventh century a. d. Ahava- 

1 In this case, however, the Yuvaraja was Eajamohendra and 
not Virarajendra. 

'^ Fleet : Bomhty Gazetteer, vol. i, pt. ii, p. 440, note 4; also 
Ind. Antiquary (IV. 103). 

3 Nos. 153 and 140, Epi. Car. vol. xi. 

i Nos. 83 and 152, Epi. Car. vol. vii. 



120 ANCIENT INDIA 

malla had one of his sons Somesvara Bhuvanaika- 
malla, governing in the Bellary District and another 
governing practically the whole of the Mysore Pro- 
vince, with, of course, deputies to help him. Later 
on Vishnuvardhana Vijayaditya was governor of Nolam- 
bavadi 32,000 (eastern Mysore) with the title Vengi- 
mandalesvara ^ and head-quarters at Kampili (Kampli) 
and Jayasimha, ruler of Banavase alone. Thus it is 
clear that in a war with the Chola all these princes 
would figure, and so it is stated in the Chola inscription. 
Since the first achievement of Virarajendra is against 
prince Vikrama, it is clear that alter the battle of 
Koppam the Chalukyas were slowly working their 
way up to Gangavadi. Virarajendra naturally had 
to push back Vikramaditya during the years a. d. 
1055-1060. This achievement would fall within the 
period of the reign of Rajendra, as, according to Prof. 
Kielhorn's astronomical calculations, Virarajendra as- 
cended the throne in a. d. 1062-3. This, together 
with Eajamahendra's^ ^ son of Kajendra) having fought 
against the Chalukya Ahavamalla, would indicate that 
Virarajendra did not come to the throne by any act of 
usurpation on his part. 

Virarajendra apparently had two objects in view 
now : (1) the keeping back of this Chajukya aggression 
which was always possible, and which was quite a real 
danger at the time; and, (2) his active interference, 
with a view to achieve this, in the affairs of the Vengi 
kingdom of his brother-in-law, who died about this 
time. The Telugu country safe on his side, the Cha- 
lukya advance in the south would be impossible. These 
objects of the Chola naturally led to great activity on 

1 Not because he was son of an eastern Chalukya Princess but 
he had charge of the Vengi frontier ; and wars with Vengi were his 
province. 

2 South Ind. Ins., vol. iii, pt., ii, p. 191, Epi. Indica., vol. vi, 
pp. 20-4. 



KUDAL SAN GAM AM i'21 

these very frontiers. Hence the appointment of a 
frontier warden, a royal prince, with his head-quarters 
at Kaniph at the salient angle between the Chola and 
the Vengi country. The second exploit of Yirara- 
jendra, therefore, is a successful invasion of the Circars 
to prevent Vikramaditya gaining a hold upon the 
country. How Vikramaditya's intervention was brought 
about is not detailed in any of the inscriptions which 
state that : ' He (the Chola Emperor) attacked and 
destroyed the irresistible, great and powerful army 
which he (Vikkalan) had again dispatched into Vengai- 
nadu . ' This must have been brought about somewhat 
in this wise. The eastern Chalukya Eajaraja, the 
son-in-law of the Gangaikonda Chola, died and had at 
least a son Eajendra better known as Kulottunga and 
a dauuhter Kandavvai ; but we see that, the Yengi 
country passes into the possession of A'ijayaditya, an 
uncle of Kulottunga, through the good oftices of Yirara- 
jeudra. This disputed succession ought to have brought 
Yikramaditya upon the scene. But Yirarajendra \vas 
nevertheless victorious at last, and placed his nominee 
Vijayaditya of the eastern Chalukya family, (not of the 
western Chalukya family as was hitherto supposed), upon 
the throne, after a battle at A^ijayavadi (Bezwada). 

The next great achievement was his great victory 
at Kjdal Sangamam over the entire body of the Cha- 
lukya forces. This place is at the junction of the 
Krishna and the Tungabhadra, just the region where- 
frouj the Chalukyas would hope to bar the northward 
and north-eastward progress of the Chola. ' The enemy 
full of hatred, met and fought against (him) a third 
time, hoping that his (former) defeats would be revenged. 
(The King) defeated countless Samantas, together with 
these (two) sons of Ahavamalla, who were called 
Vikkalan and Singanan at Kudal Sangamam on the 
turbid river. Having sent the brave vanguard in 
advance, and having himself remained close behind 



122 



ANCIENT INDIA 



with the kings allied to him, (he) agitated by means 
of a single must elephant that army (of the enemy), 
which was arrayed (for battle), (and which) resembled 
the northern ocean. In front of the banner-top he cut 
to pieces Singanan, the King of warlike Kosalai, along 
with the furious elephants of (his) vanguard. While 
Kasavadanda-nayaka, Ketarasan, Marayan oi great 
strength, the strong Pottarayan (and) Irachchayan were 
fighting (he) started, saying: "Follow Muvendi, (who 
wears) a garland of gold! " and cut to pieces many Saman- 
tas, who were deprived of weapons of war. Then Madu- 
vanan who was in command fled ; Vikkalan fled with 
dishevelled hair ; Singanan fled, his pride and courage 
forsaking (him). Annalan and all others descended 
from the male elephants on which they were fighting in 
battle, and fled ; Ahavamalla too, to whom they were 
allied, fled before them. The king stopped his fast 
furious elephant, put on the garland of victory, seized 
his wives, his family treasures, conches, parasols, 
trumpets, drums, canopies, white chamaras, the boar 
banner, the ornamental arch, the female elephant (called 
Pushpaka and a herd of war-elephants, along with a 
troop of prancing horses, and amidst (general) applause 
put on the crown of victory, (set with) jewels of red 
splendour.' ' This was the battle of Kudal Sangamam 
and I have quoted the inscription in full to give an idea 
of how battles were fought in those times. While the 
Chalukya records mention in general the prowess 
of the Chalukyas, they do not give us circumstantial 
details of any particular battle against Virarajendra 
in person. Bilhana's Vikramankadeva Charitam no 
doubt depicts prince Vikramaditya as conducting expedi- 
tions towards the south and credits him with the 
occupation both of Kanchi and of Gangaikondasola- 
puram. This is not during the reign of Virarajendra 

iNo. 20, South Ind, Ins., vol. iii, pt. i. 



VIEAEAJENDEA AND AHAVAMALLA 123 

but after his death, as we shall have to relate. That 
he invaded Vengi is no doubt likely, but even here the 
result is entirely diiiferent from vyhat the panegyrist 
would have us believe. Before the close of his fourth 
year, i.e. prior to the death Somesvara I, Virarajendra 
had conquered other chiefs.^ 

But inscriptions of his fifth year, the year of the 
death of Somesvara Ahavamalla, state that the Chola 
emperor, having defeated the Keralas at Ulagai and 
defeated and imprisoned the Pandyas (Kanniyas) and 
Chalukyas, the king overthrev? several chiefs among 
vphom figure the Ganga and Nolamba chiefs. AVhen 
he retired to Gangaikondasolapuram he received an 
autograph letter from the Chalukya Somesvara chal- 
lenging the Chola king to meet him once more at 
Ktidal Sangamam. Vlrarajendra accepted this and 
marched to the appointed place Kandai. Not finding 
the Chalukya Somesvara there, he waited a month 
and then putting to flight such of the Chalukya army, 
as had been there to watch him and, having erected a 
pillar of victory on the Tungabhadra, inscribed upon 
it an account of his conquest of Eattappadi seven and 
a half lac country. 

Then he ' appointed the liar, who came on a sub- 
sequent day, as Vallabha (Chalukya king), and tied 
(round his neck) a beautiful necklace.' These transac- 
tions have to be accounted for in this wise : the fifth 
year of Virarajendra was the year of the death of 
Somesvara Ahavamalla, who passed away by drowning 
himself in the Tungabhadra, owing to an attack of 
malignant fever. This would account for his absence 
from Kudal Sangamam. His death brought matters to 
an issue between the two brothers Somesvara II and 



1 The chiefs of Pottappi (Kalahasti) ; Varan of Kerala, the younger 
brother of Jananatha of Uhara and the Pandya Prince probably one 
Virakesarin son of Srlvallabha, 



124 ANCIENT INDIA 

his younger brother Vikramaditya, of whom the latter 
was the more distinguished in the recent transactions. 
It was then that he appeared somewhat belated at 
the Chola camp, and negotiated successfully for Chola 
help in the event of his attempt to gain the throne 
as against Somesvara. The treaty was sealed, of 
course, by the marriage of the Chalukya prince with 
the daughter of the reigning Chola. Though some of 
the Chola inscriptions give a ludicrous character to 
this particular traasaction, that this was the real 
import is amply clear from these inscriptions them- 
selves, while the Vikramdnkadeva Charitam gives 
naturally enough a glossed version of it in favour of 
the hero prince Vikrama. This done Virarajendra 
marched into the Vengi country. Having moved (his 
camp) he declared : ' (We) shall not return without 
regaining the country of Vengai, which (we had 
formerly, subdued. You (who are) strong, come and 
defend (it) if (you) are able ! ' That army which was 
chosen for this expedition, drove into the jungle that 
big army, which resisted its enemy on the great river 
close to Visayavadi (Bezwada), and which had for its 
chiefs, Janaoathan, the Dandanayaka Rajamayyan, 
whose must elephants trumpeted in herds and Miip- 
parasan. ' His elephants drank the water of the Goda- 
veri. He crossed over Kalingan and beyond it dis- 
patched for battle his invincible army as far as the 
further end of Sakkaragottom (Chakra-kotta). He 
re-conquered Ihe good country of Vengai and be- 
stowed it on Vijayadittyan, whose broad hand held 
weapons of war and who had taken refuge at his 
lotus-feet.' 

This last affair, as has been explained already, 
is the outcome of a disputed succession in the Vengai 
country. After the death of the eastern Chalukya 
Eajaraja (a. d. 1060-1), Kulottunga (Rajendra) ought 
to have succeeded, but this succession appears to have 



VENGI SIICCESSION 125 

been disputed. The Kalinqattupparani records that the 
wife of Gangaikooda Chola took up the dear child 
when it was born, and from the signs upon its feet 
predicted his upUfting both the famihes in fame. 
This was nothing more, probably, than the pious 
grandmotherly wish for the advancement of her grand- 
son. It is very probable that the child was brought 
up in the grandfather's house, with all the paraphar- 
nalia of empire surrounding the young prince. Thus 
it was made possible for his uncle Vijayaditya to 
make a successful attempt to place himself on the 
throne of Vengai, as we find inscriptions of Kulot- 
tunga's early years only in the southern end of 
his paternal dominions, i. e. the territory round 
about Madras. In his difficulty Vijayaditya pro- 
bably sought the strong arm of Virarajendra, to 
whom a friendly Vengi was of paramount impor- 
tance. This would, inter se, be detrimental to the 
interests of the Chalukyas of Kalyani. Hence all the 
warlike transactions between the rival powers, in 
regard to Vengi in which neither was directly 
interested. Returning from this victorious expedition 
to Gangaikondasolapuram, Virarajendra assumed the 
paramount title of Eajadhiraja or, as other inscrip- 
tions say, Eajadhirajan Kajaraja, ' as was the custom cf 
the family.' 

Inscriptions of the sixth year of Virarajendra and 
also those of his seventh year, add another engage- 
ment between the contending powers at KiJdalsun- 
gamam, for the third time, when Virarajendra ' burnt 
Kampili before Somesvara could untie the necklace 
which he had put on, and set up a pillar of victory at 
Karadikkal.' This Somesvara is correctly identified by 
Dr. Hultzsch with Somesvara Bhuvanaikaiualla, the 
son of A-havamalla and the elder brother of Vikrama- 
ditya and Jayasimha, who was, accorJing to Dr. Fleet, 
sometime governor of the Beluvola, Purigere, etc. 



126 ANCIENT INDIA 

country earlier ; but on a third occasion, he burnt the 
city of Kampili, before ' Somesvara could untie the 
necklace which he had put on and set up a pillar 
of victory at Karadikkal.' ^ The untying of the neck- 
lace refers to the untying of the necklace of Yuvaraja 
to assume the higher one of the reigning sovereign, 
rather than, as Dr. Hultzsch considers, to the inci- 
dent having taken place in the lifetime of Somesvara 
I. In an inscription at Shikarpur,^ Somesvara II 
assumed the royal insignia on the fourteenth day 
after the death of his father, as is the Hindu custom 
even now ; and the inscription 83 of vol. Ill of 
South Indian Inscriptions implies that Virarajendra 
acted promptly after the death of Ahavamalla, for the 
Shikarpur inscription says that the Chola king thought 
of taking advantage of the change of rulers and ex- 
claiming ! 'A new reign ; a kingdom fit only for a 
hero ; now is the time to invade it ; I will surround 
Gutti and besiege it ' The inscription states further 
down that Vira Chola turned his back after a cavalry 
skirmish between the vanguards. If this interpretation 
is correct these events must have taken place in A. d. 
1068. Before the next year, Virarajendra added to his 
laurels by the over-sea conquest of Kadaram in the 
Talaing country of Burmah. 

All this time of active warfare, we have evidence 
of Virarajendra's transacting business of a civil char- 
acter. Whenever he was at Gangaikondasolapuram, 
his capital, his secretaries were busy bringing papers 
and dispatches which he disposed of promptly. It is 
a pity that there are no inscriptions to give us a hint 
as to how he arranged for this civil business while he 
was engaged in war. Prom the few inscriptions of 
his time, which we have, he shows himself to have been 



1 This refers to the promptness with which the victory was gained. 

2 Sk. 136, Epi. Car., vol. vii. 



ViRASoLlYAM 127 

an active monarch, who acted up to his responsibihties, 
and when he passed away about the year A. d. 1070, 
he left behind him a compact kingdom to his son 
Adhirajaraja, but the opportunity for Kulottunga now 
arrived after having waited for over eight years. 

One more point deserves mention here before we 
close the account of Yirarajendra. There is a Tamil 
grammar, by name Vira.^3lii/am, written by Buddhamitra, 
with a commentary by the author's disciple Perunde- 
vanar. It is called Vircc^oliyam from the patron of 
the author who was born at Ponparvi in Malaikurram. 
This Mr. Yenkayya would identify with Ponpetri in the 
Patuikottai Taluka, as this would bring him near 
Tondi, of which Buddhamitra is said by his pupil, the 
commentator, to have been lord. That the patron, 
whose name has been associated with the grammar, is 
none other than Virarajendra is borne out by refer- 
ences to and quotations of inscriptions of Eajendra 
Chola I and those referring to the battles of Koppam 
and Kudal Sangamam. No inscription of a later time 
is mentioned, and the name of A^irarajendra as the 
author's patron is found in the text of the grammar 
itself. This makes another landmark in Tamil literary 
history and gives the clue to many a knotty point in 
the literary chronology of Tamil. 

The death of Virarajendra in a. d. 1070, marks 
another staL;e in the struggle between the Chola and 
Chalukya Powers. It has already been pointed out 
that prince Vikramaditj'a had entered into an agree- 
ment with Virarajendra on the Tungabhadra ; but 
the death of his powerful ally and father-in-law made 
him halt in his course towards achieving the usurpa- 
tion that he must now have planned already. We 
have noticed before that the disputed succession at 
Vengi brought both the Chalukya and the Chola upon 
the scene, but the Chola had the best of it in tlie 
fight and Vengi was yet faithful to the Cholas 



128 ANCIENT INDIA 

under Vijayaditya. Kulottunga all this period had 
been governing, either in his own name or as it 
appears more likely, as a viceroy of the emperor, 
the territory in the middle, including in it the region 
embracing Tiruvorriyur, Tiruvalangadu in the Kar- 
vetinagar Zemindari and Kolar.^ Vikramaditya took 
a measure of the situation at a glance, and set about 
putting his neighbourhood in good attitude for his 
crowning act. Prince Eajendra Chola was likely to 
strike in for the Chola empire, and it was of immense 
importance to secure the Chola succession to his 
brother-in-law, who had already been associated with 
his father Virarajendra. This he did, and we have 
the ruler Adhirajarajendra in succession to his father. 
We have inscriptions of his third year, while Vira- 
rajendra's dates run into the year, A. D. 1070. So 
AdhirSjaraja would have ruled independently for only 
part of a year. According to the Vikramdnka Deva 
Charltam, Vikramaditya installed his brother-in-law, 
and the Kalingattupparani and Vikkirama Solanuld, 
mention a king between Virarajendra and Kulottunga. 
This apart, an inscription of the third year of Vira- 
rajendra mentions that the magistrate Eajarajamuvenda- 
velan and the Senapathi Rajaraja Paranriparakshasan 
alias Virasola Ilango, met at Kanchipuram and held an 
inquiry into the administration of a grant made in 
the eighth year of Virarajendrdeava. This same Sena- 
pathi Rajaraja Paranriparakshasan alias Virasola Ilango 
figures in the same capacity under Kulottunga in an 
inscription of his second year (i. e. 107'2) at Tiruvor- 
riyur. Thus then it is clear that Adhirajaraja suc- 
ceeded his father but had only a short reign, for in the 
same year Eajendra Chola alias Kulottunga also 



1 This I infer from the fact that the earliest inscriptions of Kulot- 
tunga are found in this region ; but this may not have been the 
case. 



kdlottunctA 129 

ascended the throne of the Chola empire. This 
unsettled the arrangements of Vikramaditya, who had 
to bide his time, and it is probable, as the Vihra- 
manhadeva Charitmn states, that he was on the best 
of terms, in the meanwhile, with his brother Somes- 
vara. 

Leaving A'lkramaditya aside, we have to consider 
the position of the other j'oung prince ^^'hose name 
bulks out so largely in the South Indian politics of 
the time, namely, Eajakesarivarman Rajendra Chola 
alias Kulottunga Chola. It has already been pointed out 
that he was the grandson of the Gangaikonda Chola, 
and that it was probable that he was brought up in 
his grandfather's house, whether he was actually 
adopted by him or not. There was, in fact, no reason 
for the adoption as the grandfather appears to have 
had a number of sons, who were (at least one of 
them was) associated as lieutenants of the great 
conquering Chola. One would naturally expect this 
Bajendra to succeed his father, when he died in 1061-'2 
or the next year. In all the transactions about the 
appointment of Yijayaditya YII as viceroy of Vengi, 
we do not hear of the name of Kulottunga, and this 
would suggest that this young ambitious prince did 
not regard it as a matter of much moment to him 
whether he was viceroy of Yengi or not. His 
ambition was imperial and not viceregal, in this 
resembling his great contemporary Vikramaditya, who 
for many years had practically the whole of the 
southern half of his father's and brother's empire 
under his control. There is yet another reason for 
this indifference, but this seems to be the nsain reason, 
though it appears to have escaped the notice of the 
expert editors of these inscriptions. Dr. Hultzsch and 
Mr. Venkayya. The earlier inscriptions of Kulottunga 
state that, as Yuvaraja, he accomplished two great 
feats: (1) the capture of elephants at Vairagaram 
9 



130 ANCIENT INDIA 

and (2) the capture of the fortress of Chakrakottam. 
His inscriptions take us on to his forty-ninth year as 
emperor, and so he must have ascended the throne, 
a comparatively young man. Then ho may have been 
Yuvaraja to his father, the eastern Chalukya Kajaraja I, 
or his grandfather and uncles. If he had been at 
Vengi all the while, Vijayaditya's succession could 
not have been possible, altogether setting aside his 
nephew ; but granting that he was at Vengi, where 
was this Vairagaram and what is the achievement of 
catching elephants ? If again he was even ousted by 
Vijayaditya his uncle, the fact of his accession to the 
eastern Chalukya dominions, specifically stated by the 
Pitapuram pillar inscriptions and the copper-plate 
grants, is not borne out by any of his inscriptions, 
all of which are dated as from a.d. 1070, the year of 
his accession to the Chola throne. There appears to 
be only one explanation for all this. Vairagaram is 
Wairagarh in the Central Provinces,^ north-east of 
Ajanta, and it is here that as the Chola Yuvaraja, 
on the occasion of the invasion of Vlrarajendra, or 
his grandfather, Eajendra I, he distinguished himself. 
His early inscriptions affirm that ' (He) gently raised 
without wearying (her) in the least the lotus-like goddess 
of the earth residing in the region of the rising sun.' 
(^^(r^is^lZBi^Lu^ firr^sas^iiSleS (T^i(^tl, SLDeoisiiesTuj S'HeoLD.ssir ^sstSebt" 
QpcsreisPiTS(^eifl^^eue!!r(SS)efr ^ ^Q^LDirsCiT^dQsjfisoirQ erQ^^ekssr inrr 

^^).^ This land of the rising sun cannot well be the 
country of Vengi, and if the conquest of part of 
Burmah by Bajendra I is accepted, as it must now 

1 1 am glad to find Pundit Hira Lai support me in this sugges- 
tion to which I was led by Mr. Veukayya's objection to my previous 
identification of Vairagaram with a place of similar name in Burmah 
vide Efigraphia Indica x. 26-7. 

2 Note also : •»w«i_/i)n9»r*4r^^li yu»«ir fihujO^Sfte »«ugO*iiJ)«a»^ Qf^ptSpu. 

South Ind. Ins., No. 76, vol. iii, pt. 2, p. 169, 1-4. 



KUL5TTUNGA AND CHAKRAKOTTAM 131 

be, this would only mean that Eajendra Kulottunga 
distinguished himself as a prince in the eastern 
exploits of' his grandfather, either during, Eajendra 
Chola's, or under Virarajendra when he reconquered 
Kadaram. This would also satisfactorily account for 
the idea of the Panditha Chola (Rajendra, the Gan- 
gaikonda Chola) having been his father according to 
the Kalingattupparaiii (XIII. 62). 

There is still the mention of his rule over Vengi 
to be explained. This is easily done by the mere 
fact that he was the legitimate heir whoever else had 
been viceroy (and Vijayaditya claimed to be nothing 
else), and when Kulottunga became emperor he did 
not wish to assert his claims to, or make a boast of 
what was certainly a much inferior position. 

If this view of Kulottunga's earlier position be 
correct, then his achievement against Chakraknttam, 
against the ruler of Dhara might have been accom- 
plished, when Virarajendra dispatched an army into- 
Kalingam and across into Dhara after his last expe- 
dition into Vengi. The Kalinga ruler at the time was 
Eajaraja whose wife Eajyasundari, daughter of the 
Dramila (Dravida) King Eajendra Chola, was the 
mother of the Kalinga ruler Anantavarman Choda 
Ganga.' This Eajendra Chola, Dr. Hultzsidi suspects, 
is identical with Virarajendra. Be tins as it may, it 
is probably in this invasion that Kulottunga found 
occasion to distinguish himelf against ChakrakoUam. 

This view of the early life of Kulottunga differs 
from that of Dr. Hultzsch and Mr. Venkayya, who infer 
it was only a question of usurpation on the part of 
Vijayaditya, assisted by A^irarajendra. This would 
accord very ill with Kulottunga's position in the 

1 It is quite possible tliat this Eajendra Chola was the Gangai- 
konda Chola, or Rajendra Kulottunga as Mr. Venkayya infers in 
his Report for 1905. 



132 ANCIENT INDIA 

interim. If he had remained anywhere in the Chola 
empire, Virarajendra would have taken steps to keep 
him out of ever-aspiring to the throne. Nor does he 
figure among the western Chalukya relations with 
Virarajendra. It appears, therefore, that he was 
biding his time as did Vikramaditya for nine years to 
work his way up to the empire. 

Inscriptions of the second year of Knlottunga lend 
support to this view, as No. 64. vol. iii of the South 
Indian Inscriptions implies ' that he felt himself 
already at that time as a member of the Chola family 
to which his mother and grandmother belonged, and 
not as an eastern Chalukya, because it mentions as 
his crest the tiger and not the boar.' In inscriptions 
of his first four years he styles himself Eajakesarivarman 
Eajendra Chola Deva, while that in his fifth year 
ascribes to him the title Kulottunga. In addition to 
the achievements already referred to while yet a prince 
only, the inscriptions of his fifth year add that he 
vanquished the king of Kuntala, that he crowned 
himself as king of the country on the banks of the 
Kavery, and that he decapitated an unnamed Pandya 
king. ' Having made the wheel of his (authority) to 
go as far as the Golden Circle (i.e. Mount Meru), on 
the earth, which was surrounded by the moat of the 
sea, that was (again) surrounded by (his) fame, (the 
king) newly wedded, in the time when (he was still) 
heir-apparent (ilango), the brilliant goddess of victory 
at Sakkarakkottam by deeds of valour, and seized a herd 
of elephants at Vayiragaram. (He) unsheathed (his) 
sword, showed the strength of (his) arm and spurred 
(his) war-steed, so that the King of Kondala (Kuntala), 
whose spear had a sharp point, lost his wealth. 
Having established his fame, having put on (a garland 
of victory over) the northern region, and having 
stopped the prostitution of the goddess with the sweet 
and excellent lotus-flower (i.e. Lakshmi), of the 



vikramaditta's usurpation 183 

southern region, and the loneliness of the goddess 
of the good country whose garment is the Ponni 
(Kavery), (he) put on by right (of inheritance) the pure 
royal crown of jewels, while the kings of the old 
earth' bore his two feet (on their heads) as a large 
crown.' This would be the year a. d. 1015 and the 
Kuntalas here referred to must be the generals of 
Somesvara II, particularly his brothers, Vikramaditya 
and Jayasimha, the latter having been at the time 
viceroy of Banavase. This merely refers to an attempt 
at intervention on the part of Vikramaditya, as a 
result of the misfortune to his brother-in-law and the 
consequent change of rule. But before the eleventh 
year of Kulottunga's reign, he had to intervene with 
greater vigour in the affairs of the Mysore countrj^ 
But how this was called for has to be explained before 
proceeding further. 

Somesvara Bhuvanaikamalla ruled over the Chalukya 
empire from a. D. 1068 to a.d. 1076 when his reign 
came to an end. The only epigraphical information 
available is that Somesvara, having got intoxicated 
with pride after a few years of rule, neglected the 
government badly, and bis virtuous brother Vikrama- 
ditya overthrew him in the interest of good govern- 
ment and established himself instead. Turning to the 
Vikramankadeva Charitam again for details, we have 
the following which I extract from Dr. Fleet.' 

' Bilhana tells us, that, for a time, the two brothers 
lived in friendly fashion at Kalyana ; the younger duly 
honouring the elder as the chief of his house and his 
king. Somesvara, however, fell into evil courses, and 
even tried to do harm to his brother. Thereupon A"ik- 
ramaditya left Kah'ana taking with him all his fol- 
lowers and also his younger brother, Jayasimha III, 



1 South Ind. Ins., p. 142, vol. iii, pt. ii. 

2 Bojnbay Gazetteer, pt. ii, vol. i, pp. •141-5. 



134 



ANCIENT INDIA 



who, he considered, could not be safely left with the 
king. Somesvara sent forces in pursuit, to bring the 
brothers back. But he was unsuccessful and at last 
desisted from the attempt. Vikramaditya went on to 
the Tungabhadra on the bank of which river he rested 
his army for sometime, with the intention of fighting 
the Chola king. It appears, however, that, for some 
unexplained reason, he deferred this project in favour 
of making a triumphal progress through the southern 
and western parts of the kingdom ; for, the narrative 
goes on to say, that having spent sometime in the 
Banavase province, he marched through the Malaya 
country, that Jayakesin the lord of Konkan, i.e. the 
first Jayakesin in the family of the Kadambas of Goa, 
came to him and brought presents, and that the lord 
of Alupa made submission and received favours in 
return. It also implies that he visited Kerala, and 
inflicted some reverses on the king of that country. 
He then seems to have taken some definite action 
against the Cholas. Bat it was stopped by the Chola 
king, Eajakesarivarman otherwise called Virarajendra 
Deva I, making overtures of friendship, and offering 
him a daughter in marriage, on the condition that he 
retired to the Tungabhadra. Vikramaditya accepted the 
proposals and the marriage was duly celebrated. 
Shortly afterwards, however, the news reached him 
that his father-in-law was dead, and that tbe Chola 
kingdom was in a state of anarchy. He then pro- 
ceeded at once to Kanchi the Ciiola capital ; put down 
the rebellion there, and going to Gangakunda, secured 
the throne for his brother-in-law, probably Parakesari- 
varman otherwise called Adhirajarajendra. He then 
marched back to tlie Tungabhadra. But he heard, 
almost immediately, that his brother-in-law had lost 
his life in a fresh rebellion, and that Eajiga the lord 
of Veiigi, — i.e. the eastern Chalukya king Kulrittunga 
Chola Deva I, whose original appellation was Rajendra 



BILHANAS ACCOUNT 135 

€hola — had seized the throne of Kanchi. He at 
once prepared to march against Kaj'iga. The latter 
induced Sumesvara II to enter into an alliance against 
their mutual enemy. When Vikramaditya at length 
reached Eajiga's forces, Somesvara's army was en- 
camped, with hostile intentions, not far off in his rear. 
And in the battle which ensued, and in which Vikra- 
maditya was victorious, Eajiga fled and Scmit'svara was 
taken prisoner. The narrative says that Vikramaditya 
at tirst intended to restore his brother to liberty and 
to the throne. But eventually he decided otherwise. 
He had himself proclaimed king, and then appointing 
Jayasimha III, viceroy at Banavase, proceeded to 
Kalyana and established himself there.' 

The above is the account of Vikramaditya's Vidya- 
pati (poet-laureate) ; and, apart from a little glozing in 
favour of his patron and a certain want of chronological 
sequence, the narration of events is in the main true. 
A part of this story has already been dealt with 
before — Vikramaditya's actual motive and how he 
entered into treaty with Virarajendra, what he did to 
his brother-in-law and how the affair ended. What 
has to be specially noted here is the last transaction 
of the narration : how S5mesvara was actually over- 
thrown. It is very likely this achievement of Kul5t- 
tunga, that is detailed in inscriptions of his fifth and 
sixth years, i. e. a. d. 1075-6. It is very probable that 
Vikrama's elder brother was an incapable ruler or 
even worse. There is no doubt that A^ikramaditya had 
distinguished himself even during his father's lifetime. 
Nevertheless, he had carefully prepared his scheme 
and put it into effect at the psychological moment, and 
thus showed clearly to the world that in diplomacy, 
he was not behind any body at the time. It was, 
however, not a cold-blooded deed of unscrupulous usur- 
pation, for it is quite possible that SOmesvara's regime 
might have brought the empire to the verge of ruin. 



136 .ANCIENT INDIA 

seeing they had to reckon with a neiglibour like 
Kulottunga. In this enterprise, Vikramaditya had the 
support of the viceroys of first rank among his 
brother's officers, and this could not have been ob- 
tained if there had been no counterbalancing virtues 
in him. Seuna Chandra II of the Yadava family, the 
premier viceroy of the north-west, Jayakesin Kadamba 
of Goa ; Achugi II of the Sinda family of Yelburga ; 
Ereyanga Hoysala of Gangavadi, the son of Vinayaditya 
the right trusty lieutenant of Snmesvara Ahavamalla ; 
and Irukkapala, the brother of the governor of Nolamba- 
vadi ; all these heartily helped Vikramaditya and were 
the main pillars of his empire for the following half 
century and more. Thus then Vikramaditya allowed 
Kulottunga to boast of a victory while he had to be 
busy at head-quarters to complete his usurpation. This 
done, there began the battle royal between the contend- 
ing nations or rather rulers. 

The next war, undertaken against the Chola, also 
appears to have gone against the Chalukyas. Inscrip- 
tions of the fourteenth and fifteenth years of Kulot- 
tunga lay claim to having turned back an invasion of 
Vikramaditya from Nangali (about six miles east of 
Mulbaga!) via Manalur (other inscriptions have it 
Alatti) to the Tungabhadra ; and to having captured 
Gangamandalam and Singanam. Having secured his 
frontier in the north he turned his attention to the 
south against the Pandyas, and subdued the south- 
western portion of the Peninsula including in his 
conquests the Gulf of Mannar, the Podiyil mountain 
(in the Tinnevelly district), Cape Comorin Kottaru, 
the Sahya (the western ghats) and Kudamalainadu 
(i. e. Malabar). About this time he appears to have 
effected conquests in the Malabar country, Viliiiam 
and Salai having been occupied according to the 
Kalingattuparani and the Vikkiramasolanula. That 
this is not a mere high-falutin assertion of a triumph 



THE FIRST WAE 137 

without success is amply borne out by the utter 
absence of purely Chalukya inscriptions beyond the 
Shimoga and the Chitaldroog districts, the capitals of 
the so-called viceroys of C-iangavadi having been beyond 
the Gangavadi itself (namely, Belagamve first and Belur 
next) ; and the appointment of particular governors 
to hold the soathern frontier against the Chola in 
northern Mysore. 

' Lakshmana becoming lord of the Great Banava- 
senad, Yikramanolamba becoming the lord of Xolamba- 
Sindavadi, Gangamandalika (probably Udayaditya) be- 
coming lord of the territory from Alampara, Bhuva- 
naikamalla, in view of their being as a long bar to the 
south, gave them these countries '} Although this 
arrangement was actually made in the reign of Som- 
esvara II, there was no material alteration of frontier 
till about the early decades of the following century. 
These achievements of Kulottunga must have taken 
place about A. d. 1085. 

It Vikramaditya moved south, about a. d. 1080, then 
the opportunity would have been taken advantage of 
by the Pandyas of the south, and Kulottunga had 
not only taken steps ' to fix the limits of the southern 
country,' but also had settled some of his officers on 
the roads through Kottaru to hold the country in 
check, ' while all the heroes in the western hill 
country (Kudamalainadu) ascended voluntarily to lieaven, 
(he) was pleased to bestow on the chiefs of his army, 
who were mounted on horses, settlcmenU on every road, 
including (that which passed) through Kottaru, in 
order that the enemies might be scattered, and took 
his seat on the throne acquired in warfare." 

This war must have taken place soon after Vikrama- 
ditya ascended the throne in a. d. 1076 and both the 

' Epi. Car., vol. vii, p. 202 of the translation. 

iVide Ko. 73, South hid. Ins.. vol. iii, pt. II; the officer in 
charge of Kottaru was a. man of the Chola country. 



138 ANCIENT INDIA 

emperors had learnt by a. d. 1080 (or thereabouts) that 
it was impossible to decide once for all on this frontier, 
and matters were left to settle themselves by efSux of 
time. During the rest of his reign the Chalukya 
emperor devoted himself to peace. His reign had a 
span of half a century and, during this long period, Bil- 
hana notices an invasion and even occupation of 
Kanchi and two invasions across the Narbudha. The 
occupation of Kanchi was nothing more than the at- 
tempted invasion of the Chola empire which ended in 
failure. The other two invasions were active inter- 
ventions in the affairs of Malva and Chedi or Dhara 
and Dahala, as, after the death of Bhoja of Dhara 
and Karna of Dahala, there was constant war. His 
invasion of Bengal and Kamarupa (or Assam) are not 
likely with the Cholas constantly on the alert, unless 
these happen to be mere contingents of armies sent to 
help a friendly Power. 

Jayasimha, who had acted with him and had been 
rewarded with the viceroyalty of Banavase, a position 
which Vikrama himself occupied under his father, 
revolted and evidently the revolt had been put down ; 
but nothing further was heard either of Jayasimha or 
of his other brother Vishnuvardhana Vijayaditya. With 
this change Vikramaditya effected an important modi- 
fication of domestic policy, which produced consequences 
that could hardly have been foreseen by him. He 
gave important vicerovalties to chieftains with great 
local influence ', sometimes scions of old families, and 
these became founders of the great feudatory dynasties 
that played such important parts later on. We see 
this change taking place during the peaceful regime of 
the great Chalukya Vikramaditya. His empire extended 
from the Narbudda southwards to the Tungabhadra ; 

1 His sons were given only vioeroyalties, etc., near headquarters, 
e.g. Jayakarna, Bombay Oazetteer, p. 455, vol. i, pt. ii. 



DIVISIONS OP THE CHALUKYA EMPIEE 139 

and from the junction of the latter with the Krishna, 
if a line be drawn northwards more or less in a 
straight line to where the Wardha meets the Godavari 
and continued \vp this affluent, we shall have marked 
the eastern boundary of the Chalukya Euipire. All the 
east of this from the southern portion of Ganjam was 
the Chela empire under his great contemporary Kulot- 
tunga, whose southern limit was Cape Comorin itself 
except for a small part — the Madura district — which 
was under the Pandj^a. The country beyond the western 
ghats to the sea was under the Chera or Kerala 
ruler in the same subordinate position as that of the 
Pandya, though unwilling. 

This extensive empire of the Chalukyas was divided 
into Eashtra, Vishaya and Grama, answering exactly 
to the Afandalam (province) Nadu (division) and \]r 
(township). Hitherto viceroys were appointed over 
the larger divisions, sometimes over more divisions than 
one ; but hereafter it is generally the rule that there 
is a viceroy over each of these larger divisions. Over 
the Vishaya, or the district, there was a governor who 
happened to be a local chief. AVe hear of Ganga 
chiefs with head-quarters at Yedehalli and at Asandi 
in Kadur district. Each village or township constituted 
the unit of administration, and had its own assembly 
or governor according to its history. Besides the vice- 
roys of provinces there were great generals, ministers 
for peace and war, commissioners of finance, and 
great noblemen in ^lahasenapalis or Daridanayakas, San- 
dhivigrahius (often there is a higher othcer the Heri 
Karnata-Lata-Sandhivigrahin, great minister for peace 
and war of the Karnataka and the Lata territories), 
controllers of the pannaya, perjjunka and other taxes 
and lastly the Mahasamantadhipatis — these last being 
kept at court, perhaps because they were dangerous 
elsewhere. The emperor had his capital at Kalyana ; 
but he bad also half a dozen other places in important 



140 ANCIENT INDIA 

positions, often referred to as Rajadhanis, or alter- 
native capitals which, to judge from their location, 
woiald be for administrative convenience, more than to 
satisfy the vanity of the ruler for the time being. These 
cities vs^ere Kalyana, the capital ; Banavase and Balagamve, 
the head-quarters of the southern viceroyalty ; Nadaviyap- 
paiyanabidu, in the north-east of Bijapur on the fron- 
tier of the Nizam's Dominions ; Etagiri, the modern 
Yetagiri, thirty miles south of Malkhed ; Vijayapura, 
the modern Bijapur ; Manneyakere, also in the Nizam's 
Dominions, and Vikramapura or Arasiabidu. Most of 
these were head-quarters of viceroyalties, while Etagiri 
was the old capital of the dynasty. Even Tiruvikra- 
mapura (named after either the emperor or Vishnu 
Kamalavilasin) was a capital under Somesvara, with 
the name Arasiabidu (the palace of the queen), be- 
cause one of a number of the lady viceroys \ during 
the rule of the Chalukyas, had her head-quarters there. 
Among the viceroys of Vikramaditya we find the 
names of a number of chiefs, who became later on the 
founders of the great feudatory families, though for the 
while their charges often changed. This has been 
stated already. Without following the details of the 
change of viceroys, the provinces were : (1) the Yadava 
territory of Devagiri or, as it was known before 
this, Seuna Desa with capitals at Siiinar and then at 
Devagiri, including in it all the territory in the north- 
west of the empire ; (2) the Silaharas of northern and 
southern Konkan, the country along the coast below 

1 Akkadevi the aunt of Somesvara I, was governing KiSukad seventy in 
A.D., 1022. 

The queens of Somesvara I, and some of his successors had small 
territories to administer, sometimes directly, often by Deputy. 

Vikramaditya had six queens. Of whom we have records of four 
at least, in government of small districts or administration of revenues. 
One of them was governing the capital Kalyapa and another had a 
district allotted to her for pin-money. (Angabopha). 

Fleet, Bombay Gazetteer, vol. i, pt. ii. 



KISE OF THE HOYSALAS 141 

Bombay ; (3) the Silaharas of Kolhapur ; (4) next 
come the Kadambas of Goa ; (5) to the east of these 
their cousins the Kadambas of Hangal in Dbarwar ; 
(6) east of these come the Sindas of Yelburga ; (7) 
then the Guttas of Guttal in Dharwar ; (S) next the 
Eattas of Saundatti ; (9) Banavase, often under the 
Kadambas of Hangal, after Jayasimha's rebelhon ; 
(10) Xolambavadi, under the Pandya chiefs of 
Uchchangidurg; (11) Gangavadi under the Hoysala Eie- 
yanga and his sons Bellala and A'ishnuvardhana ; (1'2) 
Tardawadi round Bijapur. Besides these, there were 
the viceroyalties in the head-quarters territory, namely, 
round Gobbur, Kammaravadi aad Sitabaldi in the 
iS'izam's Dominions and the neighbouring parts of the 
Central Provinces ; these three having been under 
Kashtrakuta (the first two) and the Haihaya chiefs, 
respectively. 

Except for the rebellion of prince Jayasimha, vice- 
roy of Banavase and the two invasions across the 
Xarbadlra before the years a.i>. 1088-9, and between that 
year and a.d. 1098, there was peace throughout the 
empire. But the monotony of it was broken by an 
invasion, probably of the eastern Chalukya dominions. 
There are inscriptions referring themselves to Yik- 
ramaditya's reign at Draksharama and at other places 
beyond his dominions, although Bilhana says that he 
was for sometime in occupation of Kanchi. Bat 
towards the end of his reign, the danger to the em- 
pire already showed itself in the advancing po\\er 
of a Mysore chief. It has more than ouce been noticed 
before that the southern provinces of the empire 
constituted the premier viceroyalty, and it is here that 
the greatest generalship was called forth. The Hoy- 
salas were making themselves masters in reality of the 
Gangavadi 96,000, of which they had been nominal 
viceroys for two generations. Yinayaditya first, then 
Ereyanga his son, and then the latter's son A^ishnu- 



142 ANCIENT INDIA 

vardhana, through the loyal exertions of Ganga Eaja, 
a dispossessed scion apparently of the Ganga family, 
now turned out the Cholas and took Talakad, the 
head-quarters of the Chola viceroyalty on or before 
A.D. 1117. This enhanced the reputation, and not less 
the resources of the Hoysala, who was advancing 
his power northwards by attacking Nolambavadi and 
Banavase. This movement appears to have been 
synchronous with that of the Kadambas of Goa and the 
Silaharas of Konkan. The empire was saved this 
dismemberment by the watchful activity and energy 
of the Sinda chieftain, Achugi II, who defeated the 
Hoysala forces under Ganga Eaja, (which had marched 
up to the Krishnaveni (the Krishna river), in a night 
attack at Kannegala and chased them to Beliir. He 
then turned in the other direction and chased the 
others across the western ghats and took Goa. 

Notwithstanding this, Vikramaditya continued to 
rule till the year a.d. 1126, or possibly a.d. 1127. 
He appears to have been a liberal patron of letters 
and religion. In his court flourished the Kasmirian 
poet Bilhana, who evidently wandered through the 
country in search of a patron, as did Vijiianesvara the 
author of the Mitdkshara system of Hindu Law. In 
religion he displayed the usual liberalism of Indian 
monarchs. From inscription 124 of Shikarpur, we find 
that as vicero}' he got a Jinalaya constructed at 
Balligave. His father, be it remembered, died a Saiva. 
From the founding of Tiruvikramapura and the con- 
struction of palaces, temples, etc., near the temple of 
Vishnu Kamalavilasin, as Bilhapa records, he probably 
was a Vaishnava. Nevertheless a Dombal inscription 
of A.D. 1095, records grants made to the Viharas of 
Buddha and Arya Taradevi at that town. That Bud- 
dhism had its following is borne out by inscription 
170 of Shikarpur/ that the great minister, the 
* Epi. Oar, yoI. vii. 



THE CHOLA EMPIRE 143 

Dandanayaka Eiipabhattayya, who was in charge of 
the (Vaddaravula) principal taxes and the eighteen 
Agraharas, established the Jayanti Bauddha Vihara 
in Balligave and made grants to it and for the worship 
of Tara BhagavatI, and of the gods Kesava, Lokcsvara 
and Bauddha with all their attendant gods, etc., in 
A. D. lOlin. Vikramaditya had at least six wives, 
all of whom probably were not alive at once ; but of his 
children we know of only three ; Jayakarna, viceroy 
of some territory in the Bijapur division which he 
ruled by deputy ; Somesvara III Bhulokamalla, who 
succeeded him ; and a daughter Mailala Devi, who 
married the Kadamba Jayakesin II of Goa. He 
started an era from A. u. 1076 known as the Chalu- 
kya Mkrama, which did not get into such general 
vogue as to supersede the Saka era. It went out of 
use in the course of a century. Usurping the empire, 
Vikramaditya perhaps rendered a service to it by 
preserving it from dismemberment for another half 
a century, and we might say that he added to it 
southern and eastern Mysore. It was this same addition 
that carried with it unmistakable germs of dismember- 
ment, and, as will be seen later on, the Hoysala 
benefactors of the empire were the chief instruments, 
which caused it to break up. 

Turning now from the Chalukya to the Chola 
empire, Kuluttunga had hy his fifteenth year intro- 
duced order into the revolted provinces, in the most 
persistent of which he even went the length of plant- 
ing military colonies not in the Eoman fashion, but 
by allotting territory to his ofhccrs, who would 
occupy the settlement at the head of the forces at 
their command.' The next year a. d. 1086, a year 

1 This is borne out by his insoriptions being found at Mavamanga- 
1am and Akka^alai on the site of tlie ancient Korkai, thus supporting 
Kulottunga's claim to have shut in the Pandya on the side of the Gulf 
of Mannar. Epigraphist' s Report foi li 04, p. 12. 



144 ANCIENT INDIA 

before the domesday survey, he seems to have under- 
taken a re-survey of some parts, at least, of his 
dominions. This fact is referred to in tv^o inscriptions 
in the Tanjore district, and the unit of measure was 
the Siipada (the royal foot) of Kulottunga. But that 
such surveys used to be, and had been, accurately 
carried out much earlier is attested by the references 
to the book {l^^^swi in the Tamil and Kaditha in the 
Kanarese countries.' 

One achievement of Kulottunga which deserved a 
whole work to celebrate it in the estimation of his 
contemporaries, and perhaps himself, is the conquest of 
Kalingam for him by his general Karunakara Tonda- 
man of Vandai, or Vandaliir. The work referred to 
is the Tamil poem known as the Kalingattupparani 
of Jayaipkondan, who was the Kavichakravarti at 
the court of Kulottunga as Bilhana was the Vidya- 
pati at Kalyana. This conquest of Kalingam is also 
among the achievements of Vikrama Chola. So far 
as Kulottunga is concerned there are clearly two 
invasions of Kalingam referred to. The Tiruvida- 
marudur inscription of his twenty-sixth year refers to an 
invasion of Kalingam, but strangely enough his later 
inscriptions, which narrate accurately his other achieve- 
ments, omit it. This would warrant the inference 
that it was not the achievement which invited the 
classic of Jayanikondan. The next reference to a 
conquest of Kalingam is in the inscriptions of his 
forty-second and forty-fifth years. This great conquest 
therefore ought to have taken place in or before A. D. 
1112, while the first one was before A. d. 1095-6. 
Kalingam figures among places conquered by Eajaraja 
the Great and his son Eajendra. After the death 
in A. D. 1078 of Eajaraja of Trikalinga, his son Ananta- 
varman Choda Ganga was on the throne till a. d. 1146. 

1 See Govt. Epigraphist's Report for 1900, sec. 25, p. 11. 



CONQUEST OP KALINGAM 145 

According to the Teki plates* of Rajaraja Choda 
Ganga, vcieroj' of Yengi and the eldest son of Kulot- 
tnnga, issued in A. d. 1084, the boundary of the Vengi 
was Manneru in the Nellore district in the south and 
Rlahendragiri in Ganjam in the north. This would 
show that south Kalingam was already under the Cholas. 
"While therefore the first invasion might possibly have 
been to drive out some intruder into this remote 
frontier which was easy of accomplishment, the next 
one must have been of a formidable character. This 
probably was the occasion when ^'ikramaditya pene- 
trated into Vengi (which would account for inscriptions 
of his reign at Draksharama), according to Bilhana, 
after long years of peace. He must have been com- 
pelled to retire. We have seen already that A'lrara- 
jendra marched into Kalingam, and if Mr. Venkyya's 
identification of the Rajendra Chola the father of 
Eajyasundari, wife of the Kalinga Eajaraja and mother 
of Anantavarman Choda Ganga, with Rajendra Chola 
II be correct, then it is possible that Kulottunga 
undertook the grand invasion of northern Kalingam 
or Sapta Kalingam, the king of which according to 
the Kalingattupparani failed to appear with his tribute. 
This appears to receive support from the fact that the 
Kalinga Choda Ganga's increase of power took place 
during the years a. d. 1087 to a. d. 1118-19. In the 
Vizagapatam plates of the latter year he assumes 
titles and a magnificent genealogy, which are not 
found in the plates of the earlier year. He further 
boasts in the latter of having restored ' the fallen 
lord of Utkala (Orissa) in the eastern region,' and 
the ' waning lord of Vengi ' in the western. ' 

> Epigraphia Indica, vol. vi, p. 334, et seq. 

2 Vide Gov. Epigraphist's Report for 1905, p. 53. It may be noticed 
here that there was some direct relation of a friendly character 
between the Cholas and the rulers at Kanouj at the time, Madana- 
pala and his son GSvindachandra. Vide Epigraphist's Report for 1908, 

10 



146 ANCIENT INDIA 

If this be the correct view of the event, then the 
composition of the Kaliiigattupparani will have to be 
brought down to somewhere near A. d. 1112, rather 
thaii to a period of about fifteen years earlier, a date 
hitherto fixed for it. The credit of this expedition, 
according to this work, is entirely due to Karunakara 
Tondaman of Vandai (Vandalur), but the inscriptions 
of Vikrama Chola lay claim to some very creditable 
performance on the part of the prince. It is very 
probable that the prince did bear his share in the 
glorious achievement of the conquest of northern 
JSalingam. 

Before bringing the j-eign of Kulottunga to a close, 
there is one more event of importance to be discussed 
"which took place during the last year of his reign. 
It is the conquest of Gangappadi, for the Chalukyas 
•ostensibly, by the Hoysala chief, Bitta Deva, helped by 
his general Ganga Eaja. This is recorded in detail 
only in inscriptions of a. d. 1116 and A. d. 1117, and the 
conquest could not have taken place very much earlier. 
Ganga Eaja claims to have driven the Chola army 
across the Kaveri, and having ousted Adiyaman and 
Narasimha Brahma. The general then occupied Talakad, 
the Chola capital on the Kaveri. This was the crowning 
achievement of a series of enterprises by the Mysore 
chiefs to shake off the yoke of the Choi as imposed 
upon them over a century since, by another Eajendra 
Chola. Thenceforward, the Chalukya boundary nomi- 
nally at least extended to Kongu, Nangali and Koyatiir 
in the south. So far as we know at present, Kulot- 
tunga's forty-ninth year is the latest, and this would 
bring his reign to an end in a. d. lllS, just six years 
before that of his rival contemporary which took place 
in A. D. 1126. 

sec. 58, Ins. at Gangaikonda Solapuram, containing the Gahadwal- 
genealogy. 



PERIOD OF CONSOLIDATION 147 

This half century was a period of consolidation for 
the Chola empire, as it also was for the Chalukya. 
The administration was carried on on the lines laid 
down, as in fact must have been the case even be- 
fore, to a great extent, by Eu jaraja the Great. It is the 
idea of permanent peace that led to Kulottunga's mili- 
tary outsettlements in the Pandya, and Kerala frontier, 
for we find a Tanjore general endowing a temple, 
with the emperor's sanction, at SOlapuram near Kot- 
taru which was not far off Cape Comorin, which is now 
in the Travancore country. Except the loss of southern 
and eastern Mysore the empire remained intact. When 
he died, it was at peace, surrounded by friendly powers 
all round, except on the Mysore frontier, where further 
aggression was very carefully checked. The danger 
when it befell the empire came from all quarters, but 
in the meanwhile, that the empire held together was 
due to the far-seeing arrangements of the great Chola 
monarchs of whom, we may say, this was the last. 
Kulottunga had three queens, namely, Dina Chintamani 
(probably Maduiantaki, daughter of Eajendra), Elisaival- 
labhi and Tyagavalli. This last was the queen entitled, 
according to the Kalingattupparani, to issue orders 
along with Senni (Kulottunga I). She became chief 
queen only in a. d. 1095. Hence the latter work must 
have been composed between a.d. 1095 and a. d. 1118. 

I shall show a little later on what the rural gov- 
ernment was, and describe in some detail the actual 
machinery of the Chola administration. That these 
were not the invention even of the great Eajaraja is 
borne out by the inscriptions at Tirupparkadal, near 
Kaverlppak (then known Kavidippakkam), of dates be- 
tween Parantaka I and Eajaraja. We find mention 
here of a number of village committees in addition to 
those detailed in the following part : — 

The tank committee, the garden-supervision commit- 
tee and the general committee of management. The 



148 ANCIENT INDIA 

new ones are : — (1) the great men for the supervisicn 
of wards (Kudumbu), (2) the great men for the super- 
vision of the fields ; (3) the great men numbering two 
hundred; (4) the great men for the supervision of the 
village ; (5) the great men for supervising Udaslnas 
(ascetics). These committees, together with the learned 
Brahmans (Bhattar) and other distinguished men of 
the village, constituted the village assembly. We some- 
times come across the Grama Kon (chief of the village) . 
There appear to have been individuals in charge of 
particular wards of the village. The following is an 
extract from an inscription at Perumbiir near Madu- 
rantakam of a. d. 1081. ' The above (grant) was ordered 
by Sattai Govindbhattar of Irayur (in charge of) Srima- 
dhurantakacheri, Kunrakuli Somayajiar of Uruppattur 
(in charge of Sri Parantakachcheri ; Kattugai Kara - 
yana-kramavittar of Nambur (in charge of) Sri Irumu- 
disolachcheri ; SrT Krishnabhattar of Aranlpuram (in 
charge of) Sri Simhlantakachcheri ; ISTarayanabhat- 
tar-Sarvakratuvajapeyayajiar of Pippirai (in charge of) 
Srlvirasrilachcheri, etc. 

With reference to the re-survey undertaken in a.d. 
1086, I have had to differ from the late Mr. Srinivasa 
Eaghava Aiyangar as to the interpretation of ' calcu- 
lated ' and 'settled produce' larrassflssi—sir and ^i<snp 
siLis/.'sm-^ 1 That these meant the tax as assessed and 
that as settled after experience, if not experiment, and 
that such revisions and reductions of land revenue 
were known in those days are in evidence in the fol- 
lowing extract. ' To (the god) Mahadeva of (the 
temple of) Eajendra Sulisvara, which Araiyan Madhu- 
rantakan alias Kulottunga-Sola-Keralarajan, the lord 

1 These were interpreted as gross produce and the government 
demand by the accomplished author of The Forty years' Progress^ 
but he was so good as to admit in a kind letter that it was possible 
'he was all wrong', as he too'k the information from Dr. Burnell's- 
Palmography and did not consult the inscriptions first hand. 



EESETTLEMENT 149 

of Mulanjur in Manuinada, a district of Solamandalam 
had caused to be built at Kottaru alias Muiuiuudi 
Solanalliir, in Nanjinadu (a sub-division) of Uttama 
Solavalanadu, a district of Rajaraja Pandinadu, shall 
be jjaid, for the expenses required by this god, from 
the thirtieth year (of my reign) forty-five and a half, 
three-twentieths, and one-fortieth, Madai, by the 
village of Andaykkudi in the same Nadu. According 
to (the settlement of) payments (that had taken place 
in the seventh year after the accession of Eajendra 
Sola Deva), (this) tax was paid instead of the (original) 
land tax of seventy-nine Kasu and three-hundred and 
twenty-four kalam of paddy. The previous name of 
this village having been cancelled and the name of 
Eajendra Solanallur (having been substituted), let it be 
entered in the revenue register (vari) as a tax free 
Devadana from the thirtieth year (of my reign) including 
rents, internal revenue, and small rights such as Urk- 
kalanju, Kumarakachanam, the fishing rent, the tax on 
looms, the rent on the goldsmiths, Madaikiili, Dasa- 
vandam, and Kalalavukrdi).' ^ The government shewed 
itself otherwise interested in rural prosperity by the 
establishment of an agricultural settlement of twenty- 
four families at Tiruvalangadu.^ The Tiruvanaikkaval 
inscription of the year a.d. 1117 states that ' as these 
four and three-quarters (veli) of land had been lying 
full of holes and sand as uncultivated dry land, until 
the forty-seventh year of this king, we (the assembly) 
agreed to sell the land to Muiiayan Arumolidevau alias 
Villavaraiyan for purchase money of 4, ^^, -^rj good kasu 
current at the time.' About this time land was selling 
in the Udaiyarpaliam Taluka, not very far off, at twenty 
kasu per veli ^ 'Having dug and reclaimed the four and 
three quarter (veli) of land, he has to supply for these four 

1 South Ind. Ins., vol. iii, pt. ii, p. IG'2. 

2 No. 65, vol. iii, pt. ii. South Ind. Ins. 

3 South Ind: Ins., vol. iii, pt. ii, p. 152. 



150 ANCIENT INDIA 

and three-quarters (veli) of land to the temple treasury 
twenty-three kalam, two tuni and one kuruni of paddy 
by the marakkal called after Eajakesari ; viz. five kalam for 
each veli at the rate of dry land, etc.'* . . . Such are the 
few glimpses we get into the revenue arrangements of 
those days. The standard coin now appears to be 
the madai, sometimes called madhurantakan madai. 
This was equal to two kasu and to five and a half 
kalams of paddy, the price of which varied sharply ac- 
cording to locality and to time. The tax madaikkuli, 
as a minor tax, perhaps refers to the seigniorage upon 
coining. The standard dry measure was the marakkal, 
either rajakesari as above or arumolidevan, both of 
the days of Eajaraja ; and the Ekanath measure for ghee 
or arumolidevanulakku. There is mention also of 
canals and roads, as in other Chola inscriptions, and 
of the use of the rod of sixteen spans for measuring 
land. More than all, this Kulottunga's fame stood 
high as the ' Sungandavirta Chola ' (the Chola who 
abolished tolls'*. That he was regarded with so much 
gratitude for this act shews that the tax was oppressive, 
and that the ruler wise and statesman-like. This one 
act gave him a place in the popular esteem along with 
the 'good Cholas of yore'. 

Kulottunga's age was also one of great religious 
and literary revival. In his reign flourished the 
Vaishnava reformer Eamanuja, who had to betake 
himself to Mysore to avoid the displeasure of Kulot- 
tunga. Jayarnkondan was his Kavichakravarti and 

possibly the commentator of the SilappadhiJcdram, 
Adiyarkkunallar did not live much later, as he quotes 
twice from Jayarnkondan, once acknowledging the 
authority by name and another time by the simple 
mention Kavichakravarti. This would have been far 
from clear, if made much after Jayairikondan's time as 

1 South Ind. Ins., vol. iii, pt. ii, p. 171. 



LITERARY ACTIVITY 151 

there were other Kavichakravartis in the interim. The 
Saiva writer Sekkilar, author of the Periijapumnam, 
also flourished in his court. While dealing with the lite- 
rary activity of Kulottunga's reign, we might mention 
that an inscription of his eighteenth year (a. d. 1088), 
at Srirangam settles a point or two much animadverted 
upon recently, consequent on the idea of Caldwell, who 
thought that before the twelfth or the thirteenth century 
A. D. there was not much Tamil literature worth 
the name, and that the Vaishnava Alvars lived about the 
same time. This inscription refers to the text ' Tettar- 
undiraL ' of Kulasekaralvar, one of the latest Alvars. 
If his text began to be chanted in presence of god 
Eanganatha on a festival day, he must have lived 
sometime before at least ; but prince Sola Kerala 
a little earlier than Kulottunga made provision for the 
recital of this and another set of Tirumangaialvar's 
verses also. All this was before Kamanuja had made 
himself the chief of the Vaishnavas at Srirangam. In 
spite of this, Mr. Gopinatha Eao* would have us believe 
that these were contemporaries of Alavandar, the great 
grandfather of Eamanuja, who died when Eamanuja 
had grown up to be a promising young man. It would 
appear too much of an idiosyncrasy on the part of the 
Srivaishnavas to regard Alavandar only as an Acharya 
and his Tamilian contemporaries Alvars. 

The second point raised by this inscription is about 
Nammalvar, the author of the Tiruvoymoli. Three 
Srivaishnava Brahmans are named, Shatagopadasar, 
Tiruvaludinadudasar and Kurugaikkavalan, all names 
and surnames of Nammalvar. An inscription at 
Ukkal of the time of Eajaraja I names the god 
himself Tirvoymolideva. These lead us to believe, with 
Dr. Hultzsch, that Nammalvar lived much anterior 
to the eleventh century a. d. 

1 Vide articles in the Madras Beview, for 1905, February and May. 



152 ANCIENT INDIA 

We now come to the depline of the Chola Power. 
With the death of Kulottunga the period of the 
great Cholas comes practically to a close. As already 
stated, he himself had to acquiesce in the loss of the 
Grangavadi country His successors, even the most 
capable of them, could barely maintan their position 
intact for just a century and no more. All the time 
the Chalukya empire was as much on the decline; and 
it is only when the new powers, that rose out of the 
ashes of this empire, began their aggressions that the 
position of the Cholas became seriously endangered. 

Vikramachola, Akalanka, Tyagasamudra : Kulottunga 
was succeeded by his fourth son A^'ikrama, who was 
viceroy at Vengi on behalf of his father. He seems to 
have been a warlike prince, and engaged early in 
the wars of this father. He distinguished himself first 
against ' Telunga Bhima ' of Kolanu (Bhima Nayaka 
of Ellore). He is also said to have burnt the country 
of Kalinga and this must have reference to some 
achievement of his during his father's invasions of 
Kalingam.^ He was then appointed viceroy of Vengi 
in succession to his two elder brothers who preceded 
him in the viceroyalty. It was from this high 
position that he proceeded to the empire almost at 
the end of his father's reign, in A. D. 1118. The 
latest known date of his reign so far is his seven- 
teenth year. His reign seems to have been otherwise 
uneventful. He continued the policy of his father 
and maintained court on the same enlightened lines. 
He is credited with having accepted the dedication 
of the KaUngattupparani^ by the author Jayrpgondan, 
who in the work celebrated the exploits of Karuna- 
kara Tondaman on the one side, and the greatness of 
his master on the other. He is believed to have 

1 Epigraphist's Report for 1906, sec. IS. 

2 Kulottunga Chglanuld. 



KTJLOTTUNGA. II 153 

been a Vaishnava, and it seems to be this monarch 
who is mentioned by Kamban as ' Tyagamavinodan.'' 
It was perhaps in his reign that Eamanuja, the 
Vaishnava apostle, returned to his native country, after 
having gone into a long period of exile. 

Kulottunga II Kajakesarivarman, Tribhavanachakra- 
vartin: Vikrama's son Kulottunga II succeeded his 
father. His initial date has not yet been ascertained with 
certainty, though his latest regnal year is the four- 
teenth year. He is the Kumara Kulottunga of 
literature. He has been celebrated by his tutor and 
court poet, Ottakkuttan, in more than one poem 
of his. It is in this author's Kuldttunijaclwlan Via 
and TaTihaijdga'i^parani that the fact is mentioned, with 
some little elation, that the Vishnu shrine at Chidam- 
baram was removed and the image thrown into the 
sea. It was this image that was taken over by Eama- 
nuja and established at Tirupati. After a reign of 
fourteen years he was succeeded by his son Eajaraja 
II. The latest known regnal year of his is fifteen. 
He was succeeded by Eajadhiraja II. Year thirteen is 
his latest known year. The period between a. d. 1118 
and 117.S is occupied by the reigns of these four rulers. 
Their period was one of considerable literary activity. 
Sekkilar, Kamban, Ottakkuttan, Pugalendi and possibly 
Adiyarkkunallar are names that any age might well 
be proud of. It was in the reign of the last of these 
that a civil war began in the Pandya dominions and 
involved in it the Cholas and the Ceylonese. There 
were two rivals for the crown of the Pandyas at 
Madura. Parakramabahu the Great, king of Ceylon, 
espoused the cause of Parakrama Pandya ; while his 
rival Kulasekhara had the sympathy of the Chola for 
the time being. Some, at least, of the Chola feuda- 
tories regarded the presence of the Ceylonese as a 

1 Kamba Bdntdyanam, Yuddliahhandam, Mamthuppadalam, 58. 



154 ANCIENT INDIA 

menace to be got rid of at any cost, and one of them, 
Pallavaraiyar son of Bdirili Sola Sambhuvarayar, dis- 
tinguished himself in this affair. Lankhapura Danda- 
natha, the Ceylonese general, captured and plundered 
Eamesvaram, and took Tondi and Pasa and marched 
upon Madura. Meanwhile their protege Parakrama 
Pandya was murdered by his rival, who drove his 
son a fugitive for shelter. The approach of the 
Ceylonese was opposed by Kulasekhara, who was 
defeated and driven into the Chola country for pro- 
tection. The Ceylon general having fetched Vira 
Pandya, the son of their ally, placed him on the 
throne, and advanced upon the Chola country itself. 
It was then that the Chola general, by a supreme 
effort, managed to compel the Ceylon army to retreat. 
This war was continued later on in the reign in behalf 
of Vikrama Pandya, the son of the former Chola ally 
Kulasekhara. The Chola army advanced this time 
right up to Madura, put Vira Pandya and his children 
to death, and took possession of Madura. Having 
erected a pillar of victory there, they gave the kingdom 
over to their ally and returned. It is this achieve- 
ment that was the cause of the assumption of the 
title ' the conqueror of Madura and Ilam ' by Eaja- 
dhiraja II and his son Kulottunga III later on.* 

Kulottungachola III, Parakesari, Tribhuvanachola 
Virarajendra, and K5nerinmaikondan, a. d. 1178 to 
1216 : Kulottunga III already distinguished himself in 
the war of the Pandya succession in the reign of his 
father ; but he had again to intervene in the affairs 
of the Pandya kingdom. Before the nineteenth year 
of his reign he had to overthrow the son of Vira 
Pandya who was able to restore himself by ousting the 
Chola protege Vikrama Pandya. This time the Chola 
not only defeated him at Nettur, but also put to death 

1 Epigraphist' s Report for 1899, sees. 23-39. 



FEUDATOEY FAMILIES 156 

the former's son and placed Vikrama PanJya on the 
throne. He then pardoned Yira Pandya and his ally Vira 
Kerala. He had, about the same time to march upon 
Kanchi and beat off an enemy, who may have been 
a Telugu Chola chief of the family that came to pro- 
minence in the next reign. Kulottunga III was a 
great builder and renovator of temples, particularly 
those of Siva. He appears to have been the original 
of the stories regarding some of the great Siva shrines 
in the Tanjore district'. 

It was in this reign that some of those feudatory 
families began to appear, who contributed eventually 
their share to the general break up of the Chola empire. 
We have already referred to the family of the Sambu- 
varayan near Kanchi. Another family that of the 
Adigaimans, descendants of Elini (Yavanika) appear at 
and about Tagadur (Dharmapuri). A third family of im- 
portance was that of the Telugu Cholas of Nellore 
(Trivikramapura). These were beginning to grow in 
influence and importance, perhaps owing to the 
fluctuating wars of the Pandya succession in which 
many of these had each its share. Kulottunga, how- 
ever, enjoyed peace during his reign, except for the 
disturbances in the southern frontier and in the north, 
already adverted to, which lasted for thirty-seven years. 
During this long period great changes had taken 
place in the politics of the Dekhan. The great 
Hoysala chieftains, who were such stout pillars of the 
empire under the Chalukya Vikramaditya, began their 
movements towards independence even while that em- 
peror was alive. Their northern neighbours, the 
Yadavas, had similarly laid their plans to detach the 
north-western parts of the empire. The Kakatiya 
chiefs in the eastern parts had their own ambitions 
as well. It is these three that stand out among 

1 Epigraphist' s Beport for 3908, sees. 63-8. 



156 ANCIENT INDIA 

a host of the feudatories of all degrees of Vikra- 
maditya. What was wanted for the actual dismem- 
berment of the empire was a civil war, or internal 
dissentions ending in a usurpation. This was just 
the course that events took in this part of India 
at the time. Muhammad of Ghazni had come and gone, 
and the Eajputs were giving the fullest play to their 
petty jealousies. Similar feelings actuated the princi- 
pal Sirdars of the empire in the Dekhan, except 
for a family or two of loyalists. The weakness and 
ineptitude of the successors of Vikramaditya led to 
the Kalachurya usurpation, and the contest later on 
between this dynasty and the loyalist general Bamma 
(Brahma). These changes relieved the Yadavas and 
Hoysalas of their feelings of loyalty, and they began 
to settle their frontiers by war. As the Hoysalas, under 
one of their great rulers, were thus fully occupied in 
carving out for themselves an empire of their own, the 
Chola frontier on its most vulnerable side was safe 
from aggressive movements till late in the reign of 
Kulottunga III. The death of Vira Bellala II took place 
just a few years earlier than that of his Chola con- 
temporary. His successor Narasimha II felt his Krishna 
frontier so safe that he could turn his attention to 
the south where matters were developing fast for his 
intervention. It was in the reign of Kulottunga III 
that the Tamil Grammar Nanniil was written by its 
Jain author Bhava Nandin.' 

Tribhuvanachchakravartin Eajaraja III, Rajakesari- 
varman, succeeded to the throne of the Cholas in the 
year a.d. 1216. His latest known year is the twenty- 
eighth year and in all probability his reign came to 
an end in A. d. 1'24:3-4. At the outset of his reign 
there seems to have been a contest, although there is 
nothing known as to its particular character. The fact, 

^Epigrapliia Indica, vol. vi, p. 281. South Ind. Ins., vol. iii, No. 62. 



HOYSALA INTERVENTION 157 

however, that Narasimha Hoysala felt it necessary to 
advance as far as Trichinopoly, and even further, and 
that he felt justified in assuming the title of benefac- 
tor of the Chola would warrant the inference that there 
was a civil disturbance of some sort. It would seem 
as though the Pandyas were moving into the Chola 
kingdom in revenge for the humiliation to which they 
had been subjected so lately by Kulottunga III. 
Narasimha II promptly marched forth in support of 
his ally, the more readily as the Pandyas, at least the 
section hostile to the Cholas, found ready support 
among the Kongus. He reached the heart of the 
Chola empire, compelled the Pandyas to retreat and 
even cowed the recalcitrant barons of the empire 
into submission, and then returned to his dominions. 
These transactions have to be ascribed to a period before 
A. D. 12'23-4. The next time he intervened was about 
the year A. D. 1232. This time he came having heard 
that Eajaraja was a prisoner in the hands of the 
Kadava chief KGpperunjingadeva, as he styled himself 
later on. This Pallava cliief came into prominence 
during the Pandya invasion and as was only too proba- 
ble, as a consequence thereof. His head-quarters were 
at Sendamangalam in the South Arcot district. ' 
Narasimha moved down as quickl\' as before and 
restored the Chola to his own. Two of his generals 
were ordered to continue operations till the disturb- 
ances in the country should be put an end to, and as 
was to be expected they carried out his orders so 
well that the restored Chola continued to rule un- 
disturbed till about the year A D. 1242-3. But the 
storm was gathering all the .same. The Tclugn Chola 
Tikka, otherwise Gandagopala, was inclined to move 
down from his capital at Nellore. Maravarinun Sun- 
dara Pandya was advancing from the south, and 

1 Epigraphd Indica. vol ii, p. 163. 



158 ANCIENT INDIA 

Kopperunjinga was ready to take advantage of it all 
in the interior. The confusion was worse confounded 
by a rival in the person of Eajendra Choladeva III. 
Kopperunjinga assumes royal titles, Sundara Pandya 
crowns himslf at Mudikondasolapuram, and Vira Somes- 
vara of Mysore prides himself upon having restored 
the Chola. The last of these, for sometime had a 
capital at Kannanur near Srirangam, and the Pand- 
yas and the Hoysalas fight in this vicinity. The 
feudatory Kopperunjinga beats back the northern 
invader, and establishes himself independently in the 
northern parts of the Chola empire. ' It were long 
to tell, and sad to trace each step from ruin to dis- 
grace.' The empire that the great Cholas built at 
so great an expense of labour and skill thus passed 
ingloriously out of existence through the ineptitude of 
a ruler or perhaps two, who while occupying the 
position could not command the resources, either of 
ability in themselves or the sagacity to find and use 
it in others. This is quite the way with earthly 
empires and the Chola empire could not be an ex- 
ception ; but thi^ must be said to the credit of its 
founders and maintainers that they did their work 
well and wisely so far as they could — nay so far as 
man could. 

PABT II — THE CHOLA ADMINISTEATION 
(A.D. 900 'to 1300) 

Having attempted, in the previous part to give a 
connected account of the Chola empire, let me now 
proceed to bring togetlier what little is known of 
their system of administration. 

To follow in the wake of Sir William Lee- Warner, 
I shall begin with the unit of administration of the 
Cholas, which was the village-community, composed 
either of a single village, or oftener of a group of 
villages. This union was called in Tamil ' kurram ' 



PEDIGREE OF THE CHOLAS 

1. Vijayalaya. (Parakesarivarman, thirty-four years.) 

2. Aditya I. 

3. Parantaka. (a. D. 907 to circa 947.) 

I 



4. Rajaditya 
d. A,D. 949-50. 



5, Gandaradittan 
956-7. 

9. Madurantaka 
Parakesari ; 
Uttamachola 
969-70 and 16 years. 



Prince Uttamalili. IMnoe 

Arikulakesari, 
6. Arinjaya. 

Madhuraikonda and Rajakesari. 

I 
7. Parantaka II 
Parakesari, Sundara Ohola 
and destroyer of Vira Pandya. 



_ I I I 

8. Aditya H Kundavvaiyar, 10. I4ajaraja I 

(Karikala) m. PaUavaraiyar (A. d. 985 to circa A. D. 1013). 

Kajakesari. Vandj^adevar. I 



11. Eajendra, the Gangaikonda Ghola 
(1011-2 to circa a.d. 1042-S). 



Kundavvaiyyar, m. East Chalukya 
Vimaladitya (a.d. 1011 to 1022). 



12. Eaiadhiraja, 
Jayamgonda Chola 
(A.D. 1018 'to 1052). 



I 

13. Bajendra 

(1050 to 1062-3). 



I 
15. VirarSjendra 

(1062-3 or 1063-4, 
to A. D. circa 1070) . 



I , . I 

Ammangadevi, m. Eajaraja I 
1022 to 1061-2 
or one year later. 



16, Adhirajarajendra. A daughter, m. 
Vikramaditya VI. 



I 
Tijayaditya VII, 
viceroy of Vengi 
(1062-3 to 1076). 



14. Rajamahendra. 



Madhurantaki, m. 17. Bajendra Chola, otherwise 
KulSttunga (a.d. 1070 to 1118). 



I 
Oho(j.aganga, 

viceroy of Vengi, 

A.D. 1084. 



Mummadi Ghola, 
viceroy of Vengi, 
A.D. 1077. 



Vlra Choda, 

viceroy of Vengi, 

1078 to 1088-9. 



Note. The dates of commencement of each ruler are those of the 

astronomically verified ones of Prof. "Kielhorn ; while 
the terminal dates are based upon the last regnal years 
as yet available from epigraphical sources. The names 
of the monarohs that ruled are numbered. 



18. Vikrama Ghola Three other 

(a..d. 1118 to circa 1136). sons. 

IS. Kulottunga Chola II 
(1123 circa to 1146). 

20. Rajaraja II 
(1146 circa to 1178). 

21. Rajadhiraja II 
(A.D. 1171 to 1186). 

I 
22. Kulottunga Chola II 
(a.d. 1178 to 1216). 

1 
28, Eajaraja III 
(1216 circa to 1248). 

24. Rajendra Chola III 
(a.d. 1245 to 1267). 

25. Tribhuvana Vlra Deva 
(A.D. 1831-2). 



EURAL ADMINISTRATION 159 

(or sub-division). Each one of these sub-divisions 
had an assembly of its own called the inahasabha. 
This assembly, though subject to supervision by the 
divisional officers or intendants (Adhikarins), exercised 
an almost sovereign authority in all the departments 
of rural administration. To illustrate this rural ad- 
ministration, I shall take as a specimen the village 
of Ukkal near Mamandur on the road between Conjee- 
veram and AVandiwash. The fourteen published in- 
scriptions from this place give us a better insight into 
the rural administration than any other equal number I 
could choose. I extract therefore, from the records 
the following account of the powers and duties of the 
assembly : — 

Ukkal ' was in Pagur nadu sub-division of the Kaliyur 
kottam in the Tonda — or the Jayarngonda Chola — manda- 
1am. According to other records Ukkal belonged to its 
own sub-division of the same kottam (Sans-koshtaka). 

No. 1. The assembly received 200 kalanju of gold 
from Tiravikrama Bhatta alias Brahmadhirajar, one 
among the commissioners of Uttarameruchaturvedi- 
mangalam (Uttaramallur) for feeding twelve Brahmans 
before t-he god of Puvanimanikkavinnagar received his 
noon-day offerings.' 

No. 2. States that the assembly received 550 kuli of 
land measured by ' the graduated rod ', made over to 
them by Narayana Eajasimha, a native of the Chola 
country, to supply the god with four nali of rice 
daily. 'Having received the revenue of this land and 
having exempted it from taxes for as long as the 
moon and sun exist, we, the assembly, engraved this 
on stone.' 

No. 3. Records that a certain Perran Adittan of 
the Chola country purchased two pieces of land, the 
first from a private person and the second from the 

i South Ind. In'i., vol. iii, pt. i. 



160 ANCIENT INDIA 

village assembly, and made over both pieces to the 
villagers for maintaining a flower-garden. ' The same 
person had purchased from ns, the assembly, for a 
flower-garden 501 kuli of land measured by the gra- 
duated rod to the west of the irrigation channel, etc' 
' Having received in full the purchase-money and the 
revenue of the land . . . and having exempted the 
flower-garden and (the land assigned") for the main- 
tenance of the garden from taxes for as long as the 
moon and the sun exist, we, the assembly, engraved 
this on stone.' ' Having been present in the assembly 
and having heard this order, I, the arbitrator, Ayir- 
attunurruvan alias Brahmagunakhara Vidhyasthana 
Mangaladitya Samanjasapriyan, the son of Nalayiravan 
wrote this.' 

No. 4. Kannan Aruran of the Chola country and 
a servant of Eajaraja, who got a well sunk and a 
cistern constructed by the roadside in the name of his 
royal master, made assignments of paddy for the up- 
keep of this charity. In order to supply this paddy, 
we, the assembly, of this village having received from 
him the revenue and the purchase-monej% and having 
exempted the land from taxes, etc. . . . 

No. 5. We have received, 1,000 kadi of paddy from 
Sadayan. We, the assembly, shall close (the sluice of) 
the tank (to collect water for irrigation) and shall 
cause 600 kadi of paddy to be supplied every year 
as interest on those 1,000 kadi of paddy. The great 
men elected for the year (the Perumakkal) shall cause 
the paddy to be supplied. 

No. 6. We, the great assembly of Sivachulamani- 
chaturvedimangalam, including the great men elected 
for (the management of) charities during this year 
... in our village and the commissioners (in charge 
of the temple) of Sattan in our village.' They make 
a grant to the temple of Mahasasta. ' The commis- 
sioners of the temple of Sattan shall protect this 



UKKAL EECOBDS 161 

charity.' ' The great men elected for the supervision 
of the tanks shall be entitled to levy a fine of one 
Kalanju of gold in favour of the tank-fund, from thosse 
betel-leaf sellers in this village, who sell (betel-leaf) 
elsewhere but at the temple of Pidari.' 

No. 7. The inhabitants of our village . . . the lands, 
everything else that is not the object of deeds of 
gift, in the environs of the village, the common 
property (madhyama) of the assembly. We shall sell 
this land v^hich has thus become common property 
(of the assembly) to those inhabitants who promise 
to pay taxes on each kuli. No person shall be allowed 
to produce deeds of gift or deeds of sale (avanam) in 
order to show that the land thus sold belongs to 
himself. We, the assembly, shall levy a fine. ' Those 
inhabitants who do not submit to this, shall be 
liable to pay into Court (Dharmasana) a fine of 108 
kanam . . . per day. If through indifference though 
. . . was thus given to those who pay the fine, and 
they themselves have fined them, they are not able 
to remove the obstacles to the possession, the great 
men elected for the year shall be liable to pay an 
additional fine of twenty-four kanam.' 

No. 8. The assembly received 400 kadi of paddy from 
Sadayan to feed two Brahmans from its interest of 
100 kadi. 

No. 9. The lord Sri Rajarajadeva, being graciously 
seated in the college (kallOri), on the south or the 
painted hall (chiirakiJta at the great hippodrome gate 
in Tanjore was pleased to order as follows: — 

'(The land of) those landholders in villages of 
Brahmans, in villages of Vaikanasas (a section of 
Vaishnavas), in villages of Pnimanas (Jains), in ^onadu, 
in Toiidanadn, and in Pandinadu alias Rajarajavala- 
nadu, who have not paid on the land owned l)y them, 
the taxes due from villages, along with the otiu r 
inhabitants of those villages, for three years of which 
11 



162 ANCIENT INDIA 

two are completed between the sixteenth and the 
twenty-third year of my reign, shall become the 
property of the villages and shall be liable to be sold 
by the inhabitants of those villages to the exclusion 
of the (defaulting) landholders. Also (the land of) 
those who have not paid the taxes due from villages 
for three years (of which), two are completed, from 
the twenty-fourth year of my reign shall be liable to 
be sold by the inhabitants of those villages to the 
exclusion of the (defaulting) landholders.' ' Accord- 
ingly, having been written by the royal secretary, 
Bajakesarinalliir Kilavan, and having been approved of 
by the chief secretary Mummudichola Brahmamarayan^ 
and Mummudichola Pfisan (Bhoja), this order was 
engrossed from dictation on the 143rd day of the 
twenty- fourth (year of my reign).' 

No. 10. "We have sold and executed a deed of sale 
for (i) 3,000 kuli measured by the rod of sixteen 
spans beginning (to measure from the west of the 
land which was the common property of the assembly 
. (ii) five levers to the east of this land, etc. Having 
received in full the purchase-money and the revenue of 
the land, we, the great assembly, sold it free of taxes 
and executed a deed of sale. Having been present 
in the assembly and having heard the order, I, the 
accountant and arbitrator of this village, Porl-ikuli 
Kalidevan alias Irancjayirattunurruvan wrote this. ' 

No. 11. We, the great assembly, including the men 
elected for the year, and the great men elected for 
the supervision of the tanks, assigned at the request 
of Chakrapani Nambi. ... ' Half a measure of 
land in the fresh clearing (Puduttirutta-m on the west 
of the village of Sodiambakkam.' 

No. 12. We, the assembly of Sivachulamanichatur- 
vedimangalam, (ordered as follows) : — ' To the god 
of Puvanimanikkavishnugriham in our village shall 
belong as a divine gift (devabhdga),. the village called 



POWEES OF THR ASSEMBLY 163 

Sodiambakkam, etc. We shall not be entitled to 
levy any kind of tax from this village. "We, (the great 
men) elected for the year, we, (the great men) elected 
for the supervision of the tanks, and we, (the great 
men) elected for the supervision of the gardens, shall 
not be entitled to claim at the order of the assembly, 
forced labour (vetti), vedili, valakkanam, from the in- 
habitants of this village. If a crime or sin becomes 
public, the god (temple authorities) alone shall punish 
this village.' 

No. 13. A cultivator named Senai granted one patti 
(Sans, nivartana 40,000 Sij. hastas or hands) from the 
proceeds of which water and tire-pans had to be sup- 
plied to a mantapa frequented by Brahmans. The 
great men who manage the att'airs of this village in 
each year shall supervise this charity. 

This series of extracts, from inscriptions ranging in 
time through three centuries, say from A. d. 800 to 
1100, shows clearly how rural tracts were governed 
during those centuries. The village assembly were the 
sole government of the village (or village-unions) in all 
its departments. They were the absolute proprietors of 
the village lands. When fresh clearings were made the 
assembly became proprietor of the newly acquired lands. 
When lands were thrown out of cultivation, the Sabha 
took over the lands to give them to others, who would 
pay the stipulated taxes per kuli. It was the business 
of the assembly to see that the actual cultivator was 
not molested in the possession of his holding. Failing 
in their duty, ' the ,yreat men of the year ' laid them- 
selves open to be fined by the general assembly. The 
assembly received deposits of money and grants of land 
for charitable purposes, and admmistered the trusts 
bv a board of commissioners, specially appointed for 
the purpose from year to year. They often sold 
common village lands for these purposes, and received 
in return the purchase-money and an additional sum, 



164 



ANCIENT INDIA 



from the interest of which the assembly had to pay 
the state dues upon the alienated lands, made tax- 
free by themselves. They received all the taxes, and 
made independent grants of villages tax-free for pur- 
poses of charity, and could waive all customary claims 
on landholders. They could take over the lands 
of villagers for default of payment of taxes, the col- 
lection of which, however, appears to have been made 
with great elasticity. This is not all ; they could even 
transfer jurisdiction over villages to other corporations, 
such as temple-authorities. Where they did not feel 
themselves competent to interfere they sought in- 
struction from head-quarters, as in No. 9 quoted above, 
■where the lands concerned were those made over to 
'Other proprietors. This record is a copy of a circular 
or-der issued by Eajaraja the Great. It was drafted 
iby the royal secretary on the verbal instructions of 
the emperor himself, and approved of by the chief 
secretary (Olainayakam), Srikishnarama alias Mum- 
mudichola Brahmamarayan, and Perundaram Irayiravan 
Pallavaiyan alias Mummudicohla POsau (Bhoja), and 
then despatched to the mahasabhas. These sabhas 
had treasuries of their own, as would appear from 
the inscriptions of Eajaraja at Tanjore which refer 
to up-country treasuries. 

The great assembly of the village, or kCirram was 
divided into several committees. There were certainly 
three — the great men elected for the year (a committee 
of the assembly for general management), the great 
men elected for the supervision of the tanks (another 
committee to administer the tank-fund and see them 
in good condition), and those elected for the supervi- 
sion of gardens. There were besides the great men 
in charge of the temples, charities, etc. The work 
of this assembly was subject to supervision by the 
imperial divisional ofhcers (adhikarins), often associ- 
ated with the divisional commanders of the forces 



SUPERVISION 165 

(senapafcis). These officers nmved through their divi- 
sions, asked for the accounts, examined them and made 
allotments out of the ro^al revenues, which had, how- 
ever, to be appropriated for the special purposes by 
the assemblies themselves. 

No. 49. at Tiruvallam ' records that a certain Madhu- 
rantakan Kandaradittan, Kandaradittan, son of Madhu- 
rantaka, ' while he stood in the temple observed that 
the offerings presented to the Alvar (god) were reduced 
to two nali of rice: the offerings of vegetables, ghee 
and curds had ceased and the perpetual lamps had 
been neglected.' He called the S'aiva Brahmans of 
the temple and the assembly of Tikkalivallam and 
said ; ' State the revenue and expenditure of the temple 
in accordance with the royal order and the royal 
letter.' The rest of the inscription is unfortunately 
built in. 

SUPEEVISION 

No. 57. at Tiruvallam^ records that two royal officers, 
the magistrate (adhikari) Puran A'dittadevanar alias 
Eajarajendra Muvendavelan, and the Senapati, Rajaraja, 
Paranriparakshasan alias Vira Sola Ilango (probably 
a prince of the blood) met at Gangaikondan Solan 
mantapa to the east of the temple of Tirumayanamu- 
dayar (the lord of the crematorium, another name of 
god 6iva) at Kanchipuram in Eyil nadu sub-division 
of Eyil kdttam and called for the accounts of the vil- 
lages which were the devadanas (divine gifts) of the 
temple of the lord of Tiruvallam (Tiruvallamudayar), 

' The magistrate Eajarajendra Muvendavelan ordered 
as follows : — (The incomes) from the villages which 
are the ' devadanas ' of this temple, viz. urkalanju, 
kumarakachchanam, the fishing rent, the rent of the 
goldsmiths and other minor taxes and rents, the cloth 

1 South Ind. Ins., vol. iii, pt. i. 

2 I bid, vol. iii, pt. i. 



166 ANCIENT INDIA 

on the loom, velikkasu, the tax on collecting rents 
(tandal), the sonship of the right-hand and the left- 
hand and the other internal revenue, which was being 
collected at the rate of twenty-five kasu per 1,000 
kalam (of paddy) had been entered in the register, 
and made over to this temple exclusively from the 
year which was opposite to (i.e. followed after) the 
seventh year of the reign of the Emperor Sri Vlra- 
rajendradeva. Accordingly KukkanSr a ' devdana ' of 
this god in Tuynadu sub-division of Perumbanappadi 
has to pay thirty-eight and a quarter kasu or at 
the rate of four kalam of paddy by the Standard- 
measure (Eajakesari) per kasu, 153 kalams of paddy ; 
and Mandiram in the same nadu has to pay twenty-six 
and a quarter kasu or 153 kalams of paddy ; altogether 
sixty-tive kasa or 260 kalams of paddy were allotted 
to this temple for expenses not previously provided for 
and should he given from the third year (of the king's 
reign). A large committee then assembled and made 
allotments from this revenue for various heads of 
temple expenditure. This is the kind of supervision 
to which the assembly of a subdivision was subject. 
Otherwise in all matters of fiscal administration the 
village assemblies were practically supreme. 

In a record of the time of Aditya II Karikala, it is 
stated that the village of Sirriyarrar had been granted 
as a devadhana and as a brahmadeya in the twenty-first 
year of Tondamanarrur-Tunjina-Udaiyar to the Sabha 
of Puduppakkam in the same nadu and kOttam, on 
condition that the donee made over a certain quantity 
of the produce of the village and a fixed sum of 
money in gold every year to the temple of Mahadeva 
at Tirnmalperu. The next year the boundaries of the 
village were fixed and a document was drawn up. 
But the village was not entered in the accounts as 
a devadhana and brahmadeya. The mistake was recti- 
fied in the fourth year of Parantaka the next ruler 



Justice 107 

and the sabha were maldng over the stipulated 
produce and gold to the temple. In the thirty-sixth 
year of the same ruler an additional item was made 
payable from the village to the temple ami entered 
in the accounts. The village assembly weve misap- 
jjropriating this item and the temple authorities made 
a complaint to the king while he was at Conjee- 
varam. The king sent for the parties and satisfying 
himself after inquiry, fined the assembly and restored 
the grant to the temple. 

Justice : In the administration of justice the village 
assembly exercised equal power, if not even more. 
"We have a few inscriptions in which such exercise of 
power is clearly on record. The normal punishment 
for causing death was, of course, death, as shown 
by some of the Chola inscriptions in Mysore terri- 
tory ; ' but the punishment depended usually upon the 
merits of the case. In three instances on record, 
death was caused without intention on the part of 
the culprit and owing to pure accident. The Governor 
and the assembly which he convened for the purpose, 
in one instance, and the latter alone in the others 
sat in judgement and passed sentence that as death 
was caused unintentionally, the extreme penalty of 
the law should not be meted out to the culprit ; 
all the same the accused should not go scot-free. 
He was, therefore, ordered to burn a perpetual lamp 
in the village temple for which he made over to the 
village assembly sixteen cows. This fine of sixteen 
cows, which would have been of the value of a quarter 
of a year's maintenance of an ordinary family, must 
have been rather heavy bat would certainly have 
acted as a powerful deterrent against crimes caused 
by negligence. In all three cases on record death 
was due to shooting accidents.^ A merchant had a 

1 Haggadedevanakote 18, Epigraphica CarndtaJca, vol. iv. 

2 Sec. 26, Govt. Epigraphist' s Report for 1900. 



168 ANCIENT INDIA 

concubine on whom another attempted an outrage. 
The latter was stabbed to death by the merchant. 
He could not be prosecuted for murder and paid a 
fine like the others against whom the charge was 
neglect.' It is not out of place here to remark 
that the jury system which is believed to be the special 
birthright of Englishmen and spoken of generally as 
unknown in India, is found to have been in full swing. 
In the first instance above given, the governor, it was, 
that took cognizance of the case first ; but he did not 
find himself competent to proceed without the assembly ; 
whereas in the latter cases the assembly proceeded 
without even a reference to the governor. 

Sach were the powers of the village assemblies in 
those days. Considering the extent of the country and 
the want of rapid communication, and considering that 
the assemblies took great interest in the discharge of 
their manifold functions, (as the many references to 
the assembly having ' met without a vacancy ' would 
show), there is no gainsaying the fact that the ad- 
ministration was efiScient and well-suited to the times. 
The Assembly for each raral unit was constituted as 
follows: — 

The constitution of the assembly : From certain 
inscriptions of the time of the Chola King Paran- 
taka^ we are enabled to form an idea of the rural ad- 
ministration in those days not only, but even of 
earlier times. The particular records referred to are of 
the nature of instructions laid down by Parantaka and 
explain bow the system that had come down from 
ancient times was worked. The object of these regula- 
tions being that the ' wicked men might perish, while 
good men might prosper', we have to take it that they 
are of the nature of supplementary regulations. 

1 Epigraphist's Report for 1907, Sec. 42, this also contains seven 
other instances of accidents. 

2 Epigraphist's Report for 1899, Sees. 68-73. 



CONSTITUTION OP THE ASSEJIBLY 169 

Every unit, sometimes a single village, oftener a union 
had a general assembly to look after the affairs of the 
village or the union as the case may be. Under this 
general body whose number varied, perhaps, even up to 
five hundred, there were smaller bodies whose business 
it was to look after particular sections of the adminis- 
tration. These were the committees for tanks, for 
gardens, for justice, for general supervision, for the 
wards (kudumbu), for the fields, for supervising Udasinas, 
etc. There are two others which are mentioned some- 
times: (1) for gold supervision, and (2) pancha vara- 
variyam. The latter probably refers to the committee 
of general management corresponding to the pancha 
pradhanas or aimberungulu. The former, of course, 
would refer to a currenc}' committee. 

Election Eule : Each union v^-as divided into hamlets 
and wards, the former appears to have been geographi- 
cal and the latter political. Uttaramallur the particular 
union under consideration, had twelve hamlets and 
thirty wards. First of all the names of men eligible in 
each ward were written on tickets and sent to the 
assembly with a covering ticket stating the number 
recommended. Secondly, these tickets were to be 
thrown into a pot and one chosen by lot. The fol- 
lowing were eligible for the pot ticket : — 

1. One with | veli of tax-paying land. 

2. One with a house built on his own site. 

3. Those who were below seventy-five and above 
thirty-five. 

4. Those that knew :MantrabrahmaDa and were able 
to teach it. 

5. ' Even if one owns only one-eighth veli of land, 
he shall have his name written on a pot-ticket and put 
into the pot in case he has learnt one Veda and one 
of the four Bhashyas and can explain it.' 

6. Among those possessing the foregoing qualifica- 
tions : — 



170 ANCIENT INDIA 

(1) Only such as are conversant with business 

and conduct themselves according to sacred 
rules shall be chosen ; 

(2) Those who have acquired their wealth by 

honest means, whose minds are pure and who 
have not been on any of these committees for 
the last three years shall also be chosen. 

DISQUALIFICATIONS. 

1. Those who have been on any of these commit- 
tees but have not submitted their accounts and their 
relations specified below. 

(1) The sons of the elder and younger sisters of 

mothers. 

(2) The sons of their paternal aunts and mater- 

nal uncles. 
(3j The brothers of their mothers. 

(4) The brothers of their fathers. 

(5) Their brothers. 

(6) Their fathers-in-law. 

(7) The brothers of their wives. 

(8) The husbands of their sisters. 

(9) The sons of their sisters. 

(10) The sons-in-law. 

(11) Their fathers. 

(12) Their sons. 

2. Those against whom illicit sexual intercourse or 
the first four of the five great sins are recorded, namely, 
killing a Brahman, drinking intoxicating liquors, theft, 
committing adultery with the wife of a spiritual teacher, 
and associating with any one guilty of those crimes. 

All the various relations of these as specified in 
section 1. 

3. Those that were excluded, perhaps personally : — 
(1) Those who have been outcast for association 

(with low people) till they should have per- 
formed the expiatory ceremonies. 



MODE OF ELECTION 171 

(2) Those who are foolhardy. 

(3) Those who had stolen or plundered the pro- 

perty of others. 
4. Those who were excluded for life: — 

(1) Those who had taken forbidden dishes and 

become pure by expiation. 
(i2) Those who had committed . . . sms and have 

become pure by expiation. 
(3) Those that had become village pests and 

similarly pure. 
(i) Those guilty of sexual intercourse and puri- 
fied likewise. 
All these were excluded in the election, and the 
other qualified candidates had their names entered in 
the pot-tickets sent with a covering ticket stating the 
actual number irom each ward. A full meeting of the 
village assembly, including the young and old, was then 
called for the purpose. All the temple priests, in the 
village on the day, were to attend without exception 
and be seated along with the assembly, in the village 
hall. In the midst of the temple priests one of them, 
the oldest, stood up and lifted an empty pot to be 
seen by all those present. Any young boy who knows 
nothing about the matter hands over one of the 
packets received from the wards. The contents of the 
packet are thrown into the empty pot and well shaken. 
From this packet one ticket is taken by the boy and 
handed over to the standing priest, the arbitrator. The 
latter receives it on the palm of his hand with his 
five fingers open. He then reads out the name on the 
ticket. This ticket is read again by all the priests in 
the hall. The name thus read is then put down and 
accepted. Similarly, one man was chosen for each of 
the wards. 

' Of the thirty persons thus chosen, those who had 
previously been on the garden supervision (committee), 
and those who are advanced in learning and those 



172 ANCIENT INDIA 

who are advanced in age shall be chosea for the com- 
mittee of annual supervision. Of the rest twelve shall 
be taken for the gaidea supervision and the remaining 
six shall form the tank supervision (committee). The 
last two committees shall be chosen after an oral 
expression of opinion. The great men who are mem- 
bers of these three committees shall hold office for full 
three hundred and sixty days and thea retire. If any 
one who is on the committees is found guilty of any 
offence, he shall be removed (at once). For appointing 
the committees after these have retired, the members 
of the committee for the " supervision of justice " in 
the twelve hamlets (of Uttaramallur) shall convene 
a meeting with the help of the arbitrator. The selec- 
tion shall be by drawing pot-tickets according to this 
order which lays down the rales (thereof).' 

' For the Pancha-vara-variyam and the (committee) 
for the "supervision of gold", names shall be written 
for the pot-tickets in the thirty wards, and thirty men 
shall be chosen as above. From these thirty tickets 
twelve men shall be chosen. Six out of these twelve 
(men) shall form the gold supervision (committee) and 
the remaining six constitute the pancha-vara-variyam. 
When drawing pot-tickets for the appointment of these 
two committees next year, the wards that had already 
been represented (during the year in question) or the 
committees shall be excluded and the appointments made 
from the remaining wards by an oral expression of 
opinion. Those "who have ridden on asses" and those 
who have committed forgery shall not have (their 
names) written on the pot-tickets and put in the pot.' 

' Arbitrators and those who have earned their wealth 
by honest means shall write the accounts (of the vil- 
lage). One who was writing the accounts shall not be 
appointed to that office again until he submits his 
accounts (for the period during which he was in office 
to the great men of the big committee (in charge) of 



ELECTION AND LOT 173 

the accounts, and is declared to have been honest. 
The accounts which one has been writing, he shall 
submit himself and other accountants shall not be 
brought to close his accounts.' 

These were the rules promulgated by Paiantaka I to 
make rural administration more efficient. The rules 
show considerable anxiety to keep the wicked ones 
among the villagers out ; but who the wicked ones 
were we are not informed. Failure to render accounts 
of the year appears to have been the chief trouble. It 
ii5 not clear whether the accountants were honorary or 
paid and how they were elected. Offices seem to have 
been strictly annual, though this strictness itself would 
imply that the tendencies were the other way at the 
time, perhaps abnormally so. Both election and lot 
were, on the Athenian model, made use of for appoint- 
ing the officials of the year. This strict rotation of 
offices would give every one of the villagers the chance 
of acquainting himself with the work of administration 
of the affairs of his village, and make the general 
committee of supervision very efficient in its control of 
the smaller committees. This and the committee for 
the supervision of justice appear to have been consti- 
tuted in a way to command respect, but how they 
were constituted and in what manner they differed from 
the others we are not informed. In this fashion was 
the machinery provided for carrying on the various 
functions which fell to the lot of a rural unit. 

That these rules were acted upon and enforced se- 
verely is in evidence in No. 583 of 1904 of date a. d. 
1234-5 which records the dismissal of a village ac- 
countant and the debarring of his relations from hold- 
ing the appointment for cheating. 

Divisions of the Empire; A number of these rural 
units constituted a district (or nadu) and a number 
of these again formed a knttam i Sans. kOshtaka,) else- 
where but a valanada (fertile country) in the Ghola 



174 ANCIENT INDIA 

country proper which, as far as could be made out,, 
was divided into eight such divisions, namely (1) Aru- 
molideva valanadu, (2) Kshatriyasikhamani valanadu, 
(3) Uyyakondan valanadu, (4) Eajendrasimha valanadu, 
(5) Keralantaka valanadu, (6) Rajasraya valanadu, (7) 
Pandyakulasani valanadu, (8) Nittavinodha valanadu. 
A number of these divisions went to make a province 
(mandalam) which had originally been an independent 
kingdom gradually absorbed into the rising Empire of 
the Cholas. Bach province was under a viceroy, who 
was either a scion of the dispossessed royal families or 
a prince of the blood. At any rate from the days of 
Eajadhiraja it became the fashion to confer vice- 
royalties upon near kinsraen such as uncles, brothers, 
sons, etc. This may have been on accoimt of the 
general revolt of the frontier provinces. We find, how- 
ever, several Pallavas in positions of influence and trust. 
The whole empire of the Cholas (except the Vengi 
country which occupied all along the position of a 
dependent ally was divided into six provinces, each 
of which had, at least, two alternative names: (1) its 
original name as an independent kingdom and (2) a new 
name derived generally from the titles of the emperor 
who conquered or from those of the viceroy whose 
rule over the province was specially distinguished. 
These provinces were : (1) the Tondamandalam or 
JayamgondachOlamandalam (the Pallava country, em- 
bracing the coast districts between the rivers, the 
Southern Pennar and the North Pennar, if not the 
Krishna. (2) the Cholamandalam itself (the Districts 
of Tanjore and Trichinopoly). {'r'l) Eajarajamandalam 
comprising a part at least of the Pandya and the 
Kerala country, (Parts of Madura and the Travancore 
country). (4) The Kongu country or Adhirajaraja- 
mandalam, earlier Sola-Keralamandalam (districts of 
Salem and Coimbatore). (5) Gangaikondacholamanda- 
1am (Districts of Mysore and Bangalore), — the western 



THE ADMINISTRATION 175 

part of the Ganga country of Mysore. (6) The Nikhari- 
licholamandalam embracing the eastern part of the 
Ganga country of Mysore, the Bana kingdom to the 
south-east and the Vaitumba country to the north-east 
(District of Kolar in Mysore, a part of North Arcot and 
Salem and the Maharajavady part of the Cuddapah 
district). 

Character of the Administration : That the adminis- 
tration of the Cholas was highly systematized early is 
amply proved by the fragments of their records that 
have come down to us on stones and copper. But the 
wonder is what could have happened to the records in 
the archives of the Government. Much earlier than 
the days of Eajaraja' or even Parantaka, the Chola 
administration had been reduced to some sort of system 
and the title of the Chief Secretary ' Olainayakam ' 
shows that there were royal records on palmyra leaves 
(of which the epigraphical records were mere copies) 
kept at head-quarters. Besides these, as the inscrip- 
tions at Karuvur and other places show, there were 
registers kept of the royal orders by each of the Maha- 
sabhas. Eegret as we may the disappearance of 
these records, we have, thanks to the untiring in- 
dustry of the epigraphical department, enough of mate- 
rial before us to gain an idea of the general character 
of the Chola administration. 

We learn that the lands under cultivation were 
carefully surveyed and holdings registered at least a 
century before the famous Domesday record of William 
the Conqueror. The inscriptions of Rrijaraja referring 
occasionally to ' the book' show that the survey was 

correct to 5TT28'Wooo "^ ^ ^^^'- °^ '^^'^ which would 

1 The machinery of the administration was the same even before. 
An inscription of the eighth year of Uttama Ohola gives details which 
would make it clear that the administrative machinery was as complete 
before Rajaraja, as after. Vide Epigraphist's Report for 1910, sec. 18. 



176 ANCIENT INDIA 

approximately be equivalent to gogoo of a square inch 

(a veli being six and two-third acres). The unit of 
linear measure was the ' royal foot ' Sripatha of Kulot- 
tunga), during the later period, from which was derived 
the unit measure of area. We find also graduated rods of 
sixteen and eighteen spans used in land measure earlier. 
Measured lands were entered either in kuli or in veli 
in the Chola country proper ; while the standard 
measure of other portions of the empire varied a little 
from that of this part. The royal dues, were taken 
either in kind or in gold or in both. These were fixed 
per kuli and the expressions 'calculated' (Kaaikkadan) 
and ' settled ' (Nichaiyitta) produce occur in some 
records which probably meant the revenue as entered 
against the particular holding by previous survey calcu- 
lation and that founded on actual yield (during revision).^ 

1 Here I beg leave most respectfully to difier from Dewan Bahadur 
Srinivasaragava Aiyangar, who surmises that these terms meant re- 
spectively the gross outturn and the Government share. He refers to an 
inscription of Kulottunga, and finds that in some cases the revenue 
exceeds the outturn and in others it comes up to near two-thirds of 
the outturn. The former ha. explains away as due to errors of writing. 
A glance down the list given on the next page of his work shows, as do 
a number of Rajaraja's inscriptions in the Tanjore temple, that the 
Government demand came up to 100 kalams of paddy a veli. Kulot- 
tunga made are-survey of the lands in A. D. 1086 lEpigraphist's report 
for 1900, section 25, page 10) and the record quoted is only a readjust- 
ment. Kulottunga had the reputation of having abolished the tolls (Sun- 
gandavirtachola). Many of the figures quoted in the passage, as calcu- 
lated produce, work up to a hundred kalams a veli and in several there 
had been brought about a reduction. In others there was an enhance- 
ment, which would naturally follow a re-survey which was, as seems 
probable, undertaken to bring about an adjustment, as some lands 
might possibly have b^en over-assessed in consequence of the village 
assemblies receiving often the cost as well as the capitalized value of 
the revenue of lands made tax-free by themselves. One result of this 
might have been to enhance unduly the revenue payable by the tax- 
paying lands as the assemblies would have had to pay the same amount 
to Government, as would api^ear from the large number of extracts 
quoted above {vid'. Progress of Madras Presidency, appendix, sec. I. D. 
and B., pp. 17 to 20) vide ante pait of this i. Chapter. 



EMPERORS AND THEIB WORK 177 

This latter mast have been quite feasible as the 
revenues were collected by the village assemblies which 
could find out the actual yield to a nicety. If the 
Government dues were not paid the penalty was. of 
course, the taking over of the land by the village as- 
sembly to be disposed of otherwise; and the liability 
of the landholder ceased there. The person and the 
personalities of the man were not touched, as they are 
in our more civilized times. A record of the time of 
A'ikraraa Chola shows that the land revenue was not 
paid owing to floods and the villagers put the land 
up to sale by public auction and sold 2,000 kuli of 
wet land for twenty-five kasu and another bit of 4,250 
kuli of dry land for twenty kasu. The same power 
was given to the sabhas over lands transferred to 
other proprietors by the circular order of Eajaraja 
above quoted. 

The emperors and their work : The emperors whetlier 
they were in their capitals or out in their progress 
through their dominions did transact office business. 
In a number of inscriptions we find it stated that 
the emperor was seated in a particular part of 
the palace and issued orders which were committed 
to writing by the Eoyal Secretary (corresponding 
to the Private Secretaries of our days).^ ^^'hat- 
ever was the order it had to be approved of by the 
Chief Secretary (Olainayakam) and by another high 
dignitary (Perundaram) Irayiravan Pallavaiyan in the 
days of Uajaraja and his son. Finally it was trans- 
mitted to the party concerned by the dispatching 
clerk (Vidaiyadhikhari) which again meeting with the 
approval of the viceroy or governor and the assem- 
blies concerned was registered and sent into the record 
office. In illustration of how this was done I quote 
the following from an inscription of Virarajfindra : 

I Vikrama Cholan VIS., verse 50. Indiiiii AiUiij^iiKi-y, vol. xxii, p. 145. 

12 



178 ANCIENT INDIA 

' Being graciously seated in the royal bathing hall 
within the palace at Gangaikonda Solapuram (the 
King) granted with libation of water, the village of 
Pakkur in Vengala nadu (a district) of Adhirajaraja 
mandalam, (and) was pleased to order that this village, 
excluding the tax-paying lands in the possession of 
the ryots, should become tax-free temple land from 
(the year) which was opposite to the third year (of 
his reign) including revenue, taxes, small tolls, eluvai, 
ugavai, the three fines called manrupadu, dandam, 
kurram, everywhere where the iguana runs, the tor- 
toise crawls, an ant-hill rises and sprouts grow, the 
grass for the calves and the lands enjoyed in full by 
the great village ; that (this village) should pay to 
(the God) Mahadeva of Tiruvanilai (temple) at Karu- 
vur in the same nadu, the revenue hitherto paid by 
this village, namely 308i kalanju and one and one- 
twentieths manjadi of gold ; and 3,531 kalam, 1 tuni 
of paddy and that this village should be entered in 
the revenue register (vari) as tax-free temple land from 
this year forward.' 

' Accordingly the Eoyal Secretary Vauavan Pallava- 
raiyan, the lord of TaU Tiruppanangadu and the lord 
of Nerivayil in Paniyiir nadu, a district of Kshatriya 
Sikhamani, valanadu, having written that the king had 
been pleased to order (thus), and the Chief Secre- 
tary Achchudan Rajarajan alias Ton daman, the citizen 
Uttamacholan alias Rajaraja Brahmadhirajan, Araiyan 
Rajarajan alias Virarajendra Jayamurinadalvan, and 
Virarajendra Mangalapperaraiyan having unanimously 
approved (of this document) Virabhadran Tillaividan- 
gan aliao. Villavan Rajarajan ordered: "Let it be 
entered in our register in accordance with intimation 
received." ' In accordance with this order there was 
a meeting of a number of members, but here the 
record of their deliberations is unfortunately obliterated. 
' Our revenue ofhcers having entered (this) in the 



RESOl'KCES OF THE EMPIRE 179 

leveniie register in accordance with the royal order, 
let it be engraved upon copper and ou stone i that 
this village was given) as lax-free temple land to 
the God Mahadeva of Tiruvanilai temple for the 
expenses of burnt-ofl'erings, oblations and worship.' 

Eesoiu'ces of the empire : This extract will give 
a far belter idea of the administrative machiner}' of the 
Cholas than pages of description. I shall now proceed 
to a consideration of the resources of the empire and 
how thej- were spent. Quoted under is a. part of an 
inscription of Tribhuvanachakravartin K'norinnjai- 
kondan, which enumerates in the fullest available 
detail the numerous tiscal items of the Chola rule. 
What detracts, however, from the full interest; of the 
inscription is that at this distance of time we cannot 
understand the exact nature of any; nor evtn the 
general character of a few of these. The record is 
a gift of land free of taxes } ' These seventy-seven, 
six-twentieths, and one hundred and sixtieths (veli) of 
land, which may be more or less, we gave; including 
the trees over ground, the wells under ground, in the 
land and all other benefits (praptis) of whatever kind, 
having first excluded the farmer owners and the here- 
ditary proprietors, and having purchased (it) as tax- 
free property (Kani) for the 106 Bhattas of this village 
and for the two shares (of the image) of Samanta- 
narayanavinnagar Emberuman, from the rainy season 
of the thirty-fifth (year of our reign) as a meritorious 
gift (dharmadhana) with libations of water, with the 
right to bestow mortgage or sell (it) as a tax-free 
grant of land to last as long as the moon and the 
sun. 

(This grant) includes all kinds (vargas) of taxes, 
(kadamai) and rights (kudiiiiai), namely, the right to 
cultivate kar (a kind of paddy), maruvu (a fragrant 

1 No. 22, \o]. ii, It. i, Soutli Ind. Inscri2^tions. 



180 AXCIENT INDIA 

plant, origanum majoranum), single flowers (oruppii) 
flowers for the market (kadaipii), lime trees, dry 
crops, red water-lilies, areca-palms, betel-vines, saffron, 
ginger, plantains, and all other crops (payir) ; all 
kinds of revenue (aya) including tax in money (kasuk- 
kadamai), odukkuppadi, urainali, the share of the village 
watchman who is placed over the vettis (paths), the 
share of the karnam who measures (paddy, etc.), the 
unripe fruit in kartigai (mouth), the tax on looms (tari 
irai), the tax on oil-mills (sekkirai), the tax on trade 
(settirai),' tattoli, the tax on goldsmiths (tattarpattam), 
the dues oii animals and tanks, the tax on water- 
courses (olukkunir pattam), tolls (vali ilyam), inavari 
(appears to be a tax on caste) ; the tax on weights 
(idaivari), the fine for rotten drugs (alugalsarakku), the 
tax on bazaars (angadipattam) and the salt tax (uppE- 
yam) ; [what follows is different from either of the 
above groups ; and the bearing of the items is not 
known ; I set them down here in the hope that some 
one who has the means may explain the terms cor- 
rectly : panjupili (u(g*L2s\S), Sandhivigrahapperu {&ui^ 
sSldSirsuQu^), ilanjinaiperu {^eofT(iT,&'iesruQu^), vasal- 
vinyugam (surrfeoisS^SiLiiTsix.^ padaiyilarmuraimai (ueaL. 
iiSe\)iTiT(ipsnpmLD\ kurrilakkai [sk_p;Seoi<gns), kadaikkuttilakki 
(«aBi_«as_(_t^s\)iani), tandalilakkai ^swi—siSsiJieros^^ vidaipper 
(fflSsB5L_u(?Lj/7- , madhappadi (wrrs^uuuf.), araikkalvasi {^eair 
ssfT&i<oU!j& , ijsivasi {^^9<suj9>, vilaittundam (aS?so^^OTi_(jb), 
nirani (iiriTemsfl),^ kaverikkulai (sireSifls^le^i), devakudimai 
{Q^eu(g^L<sin^), nattuppadi (isn-LLQuuirfi), anaikkiidam 
(^&w,s«i_<_ti)j kudiraippandi ((^^smffuu/F^).] Thus in ac- 
cordance with this order (olai) it shall be engraved on 
stone and copper.' 

This is a long list of taxes and would stand com- 
parison with the list of seigniorial dues of Europe 

1 Hither on profits. 

2 Probably corresponding' to the Nirganti, the official who controls 
tank sluices for irrigation. 



INCIDENCE OP TAXATION 181 

before the French Revolution ; but we are dealing 
with times about a thousand years ago. That there 
were so many imposts, and of such variety, points to 
the conclusion that these were so many devices for 
increasing the income of the Government. The chief 
source of this income was the land revenue ; and if this 
were capable of direct increase, the state revenue could 
be easily raised by taking a greater proportion of the 
gross outturn of produce, without having recourse to the 
vexatious and roundabout way of gaining the same 
end. If the customary proportion could not be altered, 
the only other course would be to devise a number of 
petty imposts which, though not the most economical, 
is still an indirect way of increasing the revenue and, 
as such, less seen or understood. We may then take 
what is actually stated in one of the inscriptions cf 
Rajadhiraja as (rue: that the portion of the produce 
demanded and taken by the Government was one- 
sixth of the gross outturn. He is said to have taken 
the sixth and assumed the title Jayamgondachola 
as though the sixth were the most usual proportion. 
The additional taxes (ayai-) were divided into two 
classes : the internal (antaraya) and external (other 
oyas). The latter must have been of the character of 
tolls and octroi generally. The incidence of the former 
was chiefly on land as even handicraftsmen were paid 
often in land for their customary work. This, we find, 
was commuted into one-tenth,^ in the inscription of 
Virarajendra at Tiruvallam quoted above. The total 
demand upon land, therefore, would have come up to 
four-fifteenths of the gross outturn. From a number 
of inscriptions we find that the total revenue, on an 
average, from lands in the most fertile portions of the 
Tanjore and Tricbinopoly districts was 100 kalams per 

1 Twenty-five Kaiu it is ; but commuted into 100 Kalams at four 
]\alams per 1,000 Kalair.s. In the days of RiijaiSja a K,'.su=two 
Kalam*. 



182 ANCIENT INDIA 

veli by the Adavallan measure (equal to the Eajakesari 
or Arumolidevan, the standard measure of the days of 
Eajaraja) kept in possession of the temple authorities 
for safe custody. Tlie Adavallan measure of paddy is 
found by the late Mr. Srinivasaraghava Aiyangar to 
have weighed 192 tolas while its modern coanterpart 
weighs 240 tolas. This wou'd give the revenue per veli 
of six acres and two-thirds (2,000 ku'i) at eighty modern 
kalams of paddy (a kalam is about three maunds) 
and the gro=s outturn at 300 kalams, a very high 
yield, perhaps not impossible as the lands in question 
are those that pay the highest revenue situate in the 
most fertile parts of the Tanjore and Trichinopoly 
distiicta. All lands liad not to pay the same revenue 
which varied from fifty to eighty modern kalams of 
paddy, or from four to nine kalanju of gold. The vil- 
lage assemblies * must have collected the royal dues with 
some elasticity as the order of Eajaraja quoted above 
would show. 

The unspent part of this revenu3 was kept ia up- 
country treasuries against demands from head-quar- 
ters. At a certain stage these revenue demands might 
have become so heavy that it must have been 
deemed necessary to abolish some at least of these 
due-. 

Oae such act of clear-sighted statesuianship, it is, 
that got Kulottungii., the first, the popular sobriquet 
of Suiigandavirtachrila (the Ghola who abolished the 
tolls), which is handed down to us in a suburb of 
that name in Tanjore town. In case of floods and 

1 The tillage assemb'ies often remitted taxes on certain pieces 
of laud receiving its cost and the capitalized value of the revenues 
due. How they spent this money is not on record so far; but that 
the veveijuos might have been spread over the other lauds is probable. 
Perhaps they applied the money for general improvements and making- 
fresh clearings. In the latter case they began with a nominal revenue 
upon the lands in question gradually raising it through a term of 
years to the normal proportion. South Ind. Ins., vol. i., 65. 



STANDABDS OF MEASURE 183 

other calamities remissions of taxes would appear to 
have been expected ; but in one instance on record 
in Vikrama Chola's reign remissions were not granted 
in case of floods, and some of the village lands had 
to be put up to public sale by the villagers, a fact refer- 
red to above. This would not seem to be enough to 
warrant the inference that ' remission^ were unknown ' 
in those days. 

Standards of measure, etc. : It has b:-en already stated 
that the royal dues were paid either in kind or 
in gold, or partly in the one and partly in the other. 
Some of the minor taxes were paid in lidsti. The 
unit of land was a veil of 2,000 kulis (six and two- 
thirds acres) ; of gi-ain a kalam (about three maunds) ; 
of gold a kalanju (abjut one-sixth ounce Troy). The 
unit of currency was the gold AyTsh (seven-twentieths 
of a kalanju or about twenty-eight grs. Troy). Thi.s 
coin appears to have passed for its metallic value, 
because the great Eajaraja got all gifts to the temple 
carefully weighed and appraised. All gold ornaments 
among these are entered with t'leir weights alone but 
no value is given, while jewels set with brilliants, etc., 
are entered with their weights (by the standard Advallan, 
kasukkallu) and their value in kasu. We can safely 
inter that the kasu passed for its weight in gold, 
although its value in grain and cattle might vary. 
Each kasLi was equivalent to two kalams of paddy in 
the days of Ivajaraja and his son, though it exchnuged 
for so much as four kalams about fifty years after ; 
One buffalo, two cows, and si.\ sheep exchanged for 
two kasu in the former period. The t(_ital amount of 
revenue realized by the temple authorities was probably 
turned into cash, although it is possible that they 
kept a portion in grain alone. Much of the cash in 
the treasury, however, was lent out to village assem- 
blies or even to individuals on the guaranice of 
the assemblies. Occa-^innally when thev lent out to 



184 ANCIENT INDIA 

to'wnbfolk, the loan was given on the joint responsi- 
bilitj' of the relatives of the person or even the whole 
trade concerned. An interest of twelve and a half per 
cent was uniformly charged whether in grain or in kasu. 
Several of these loans were given for providing the 
temple with the daily and periodical requirements; 
but often loans were made for purely agricultural 
purposes. In the former case the debtors had to pay 
interest in ghee, oil, camphor, or any other commodity 
agreed upon beforehand, while in the latter the inter- 
est was paid either in cash or in kind. 

Expenditure : The main heads of expenditure of 
the royal revenues were the civil administration, the 
maintenance of armies, the building and beautifying of 
temples and cities, and the carrying out of useful 
public works on a scale beyond the capabilities of 
local revenues and administrations. The cost of civil 
administration was met from the rural revenues, the 
higher officers as well as the lower ones being re- 
warded by gifts of land or by assignments of revenue. 
Deducting this cost from the total revenue, the re- 
sidue reached the royal treasury, to be spent on the 
other items. 

The Cholas appear to have liad a regular army, 
divided into sections according to tlie kind of arms 
they carried, and according as they were mounted 
or otherwise. We find reference to the 'chosen body 
of archers ', the ' chosen foot-soldiers of the body-guard ', 
the 'chosen', horsemen and the 'chosen' infantry of 
the ' right hand '.' I have not come across any 
reference to the infantry of the ' left hanA '.' Some 
of the princes are referred to as ' anaichevagan ' 
(perhaps commander of an elephant crops) ; ' Malai- 
yanai Orraichchevagan ' (the unequalled elephant man). 

1 Infantry lecvuited from the artisan class. 

2 The agricultural class is excluded from military sers'ice in the 
codes of law. 



PUBLIC WORKS 185 

That they maintained an efficient lieet is borne 'out 
by references to the destruction of tlie Chera fleet at 
Kandaliir, placed on the west coast by Dr. Hultzsch ; 
the capture of Kadaram by Eajendra after a sea-fight, 
and several invasions of Ceylon and Burmah. Besides 
this epigraphical evidence, ancient Tamil literature 
is full of details and descriptions of the sailing craft 
of those days. They also show abundant evidence of 
nautical experience by the figures and tropes made use 
of in the works. To give only one example in illus- 
tration; the author of the Epic of the Anldet refers 
to- beacon lights being placed on the tops of palmyra 
trunks in lamps made of fresh clay at Puhar or Kave- 
ryppiimbattinam on dark nights when the sea was 
rough. No clear reference is available as to the ad- 
ministration of the army. 

Public Works : the Cholas were great builders : 
builders not only of cities and temples (sometimes 
for strategic purposes, sometimes in obedience to the^- 
dictates of their vanity), but also of useful irrigation 
woi'ks. These may be divided into major works and 
minor works. These latter were probably constructed,. 
and certainly looked after, by the Public Works com- 
mittee of the sabhas. The former were made and 
perhaps maintained by the (Tovernmeiit. Passing < ver 
the ancient Chola Karikala/ and his more modern 
namesake, reputed by tradition to have built the 
embankments on the Kavery, and to have cut the- 
main channels for irrigation respectively, we find 
works of the kind undertaken by later rulers. The 

I '](Iidrn can claim to have inti'oduced, if not originatetl, a style- 
of consti'uetion, which has been widely adopted within and without 
the empire, and to have citablished a plan of dealing with deltaic 
lands which has not been improved upon. X prrtion of the credit for 
these achievements belongs to the nnti\e engineeis of the days preced- 
ing the British advent. They had conceived the idea of controlling 
a river at the head of its delta, and of thus securing the regular 
watering of their lanAa.' — Irrigalecl India bi/ Bon. Alfred Dealiin. 



186 ANCIENT INDIA 

names ^ of most of the main channels of irrigation 
at present watering the Kavery Delta occur in the 
inscriptions of this dynast}' of rulers. The following 
two instances should suffice to give us an idea of the 
importance attached to artificial irrigation works in 
those days. Driving across the town of Tanjore along 
the road to Trivadi, the first river we pass over is 
now know^n as Vadavaru (northern river). This river 
is called in the inscriptions Virachola Vadavaru. 
{There is another Viracholan river branching from 
the Kavery a few miles below the bridge at Kumbha- 
konam.) This was evidently cut out from the Verinar 
fcy Virach'jla to feed a big irrigation tank in the 
now postal towa of Vaduvar in the Mannargudi 
taluq, which has no other feeder channel and which 
waters a large area, else unfit for cultivation. The 
other instance is the large artificial reservoir at 
■Gangaikondasjlapuram in the Wodiarpaliam taluq of 
the Trichinopoly district. I take the following from 
Pharaohs Gazetteer of South India"-: 'It may also be 
mentioned that in Wodiarpalliam taluq there is an 
embankment sixteen miles long running north and 
south provided with several substantial sluices and 
■of great strength, which in former times must have 
formed one of the largest reservoirs in India. . . The 
tank has been ruined and useless for many years and its 
bed is now almost wholly overgrown with high and 
thick jungle. It is said traditionally that its ruin was 
wilful and the act of an invading army. Near the 
northern extremity of the bund there is a village now 

1 The Peruvalavoy Channel, in the district of Trichinopoly, The 
Arasalar, The Nattar, The Kaduvayaru and the Pandavaynru should 
suffice. Of the last two, the first is a branch of the Vettar and 
the next from the Vennar (vide any irrigation map of the Kavery 
Delta). 

■^ pp. 338-9 of Mr. Kanakasabbai Pillai's ' The conquest of Bengal 
and Burma by the Tamils ', Madras Review for August 1902, pp. 247, 
■et ser[. 



IlUaaATION TANK 187 

surrounded by a jungle, called Gaugaikondapuram ; 
immediatelj' in its vicinity is a pagoda of a very 
large size, and costly ■workmanship ; and close by 
surrounded and overgrown with jungle are some 
remains of ancient buildings now resembling; the 
mounds or " heaps " which indicated the site of 
ancient Babylon, but in which the village elders 
point out the various parts of an extensive and mag- 
nificent palace. When this palace was in fxistence 
Gangaikoudaparam was the wealthy and fluurishing 
capital of d small monarchy,' and the great tank spread 
fertility and industry over miles and miles of what is now 
trackless forest. . . . Speaking of the noble temple of 
Gaugaikondapuram it must not be omitted that when 
the lower Coleroon Anient was built, tlie structure 
\vas dismantled of a large part of the splendid granite 
sculptures which adorned it, and the enclosing ^vall 
was almost wholly destroyed in order to obtain 
material for the work.' This magnificent relic of lost 
greatness and a forgotien empire was the w'ork of the 
great son of a still greater father who built the 
temple at, and fortified the city of, Tanjore. The 
temple at Gaugaikondapuram measures 87'2 feet by 5s4 
feet. The lingam made of a single block of polished 
granite is thirty feet now unfortunately split in twain 
by a stroke of lightning. The main tower of the 
Tanjore temple is about -200 feet high and the single 
block of granite which forms the minaret is twenty- 
five and a half feet square,' calculated to weigh about 
eighty tons. It was raised to its present position 
by an incline, which rested on the ground four miles 
away from the temple. These structures are believed 
t) be the outcome of absolute power commanding 

- Yes! Small indeed as it did embrace what is now the Madras 
Presideacy and a part o£ Mysore. (Foi.- the extent of the L'hoLi empire 
^ee ante p. 105.) 

2 Sewell's List of A^itiqiiilies, vol. i. p. ■I'l'i . 



188 ANCIENT INDIA 

unlimited labour.' There is a tradition current, how- 
ever, of Karikalachola (it may be either the first or the 
second of the name, it does not matter for our purpose) 
that he paid the labourers on the Kavery embankment 
in depreciated coin (coins of leather it is said), incon- 
sequence of which there was a dust-storm which over- 
whelmed the capital and made him flee for his life. 
This story has its value alongside of the inference 
that, as these temples were years in building and of 
very great cost, they must have been the result of 
forced unpaid labour. The labour might have been 
forced or not, provided it had been paid. The builders 
of these stractures ruled over what is now the Madras 
Presidency and half of Mysore. Their administration 
was not very expensive, and as great conquerors they 
must have brought from their wars much of the 
accumulated treasure of other powerful and prosperous 
kingdoms.^ 

Whether the labour was paid for or not (there are 
instances of slavery in the thirteenth century when 
five men and women were sold for 100 Kasu'), we 
owe to these Cholas not only the grand structures, 
the temples, and palaces (indirectly useful, at least, 
as providing material for anicuts), but also the great 
part of the network of irrigation channels in the 
Tanjore district and a part of Trichinopoly. 

We have ample evidence of the country's having be?n 
traversed by grand trunk roals. That armies could 
march to Kottaru near Cape Comorin at the one eni^, 
and the banks of the Mahanadi, if not the Ganges, 
at the other of the peninsula, and that trade was 
carried on largely by means of ' vessels ' and ' vehicles' ' 

1 Progress of Madras Presidency, pp. 14 and 15. 

2 Rajaraja's inscriptions of gifts to the Tanjore temple refer to 
the captured Ghera Treasure. 

3 EpigrnvydWslieiJortior 1905, sec. '20; date of record, a. D. 1239-40. 
i Silappadhikaram and Paiiinappalai. 



STAN1>.\KD OF LIFE lt>',» 

are enough to prove their existence. If more pioul 
be needed we have it in the tact that Kulottunga 
planted agricultural colonies ' along the road to Kottaru "; 
and in the references in some of the inscriptions to 
r.iads of sixty-four spans, etc. There is besides men- 
tion of Yadugavali road goiug to the Telugu couatry, 
Tadigavali road leading through Tadigainadu, and what 
i-s more kllavali eastern road in inscriptions. There 
appears to have been a regular service of ferries across 
rivers maintained either at public expense or l.)\- private 
charity. 

Standard of Life : We can form an idea of the 
-tandard of life in those days from the following few 
facts gleaned from a number of inscriptions. Eaja- 
raja made allotments from the temple revenue for 
the several officials in temple service and their annual 
salaries were fixed as follows. The officer in chariie 
of the temple treasury is mentioned, but the figure 
opposite his name is obliterated. An accountant got 
•2iJ0 kalams of paddy by the Adavallan measure every 
vear : and an under accountant seveirty-fivc kalams. 
Bachelor Brahman servants of the temple got each 
sixry-oue kalams and four kasn, sixty-one kalams and 
tive ka<u. and niuety-nne kalams and fi'Ur kasu accord- 
ing to their WL>rk. These latter officials drew their pa>' 
ill the city-treasury and the other officials above men- 
tioned at up-c^iuatry treasuries. Each temple watchman 
was paid I'HJ kalams a year, and each temple wormn 
100 kalams. An allowance of 1"2U kalams was made 
for the annual enactmg of the Itajakesarinatakam. The 
offerings to a particular image, regulated probably b}- 
the requirements of a temple priest, are put down at 
130 kalams a year. These allowances were probably 
fixed with reference to the requirements of the family 
of the class from which the official came. If this were 
really the case, we may take the 200 kalams of the 
Brahman accountant as representing the requirements 



190 ANCIENT INDIA 

of an average Brahman family (a temple priest has 
several perquisites over and above his salary) ; and 
the 100 kalams of the watchman, those of the Sudra 
family. If, with Adam Smith, we can believe over 
a long period of time the value of corn does not vary 
however much its price may, and assume that these 
represent the value of an equal quantity of grain to- 
day, the average income of a family per month would 
have been sixteen rupees and two-thirds, and eight rupees 
and one-third for a Brahman and a Sudra, respectively, 
on ' the supposition of the average price of paddy at 
one rupee four annas per modern kalam. We cannot 
form any definite conclusion on the slender evidence 
we have ; but if this represents at all the standard of 
life of those days we have all that is possible for us to 
know at present. 

Religion : The Cholas were Saivas by religion ; 
but there is no evidence of the Vaishnavas or of the 
Jains'^ having been persecuted as such, before the 
days of Kulottunga, who appears to have driven out 
Kamanuja from Srirangam. Kajaraja and his son 
patronized th-^ Saivitic devotional works by providing 
for their recital in temples on stated occasions. We 
find references to gifts to Vaishnava temples, and to 
provision made for the recital of portions of the 
Nalaijiraprahhandam. The great temple builder, KOch- 
chengan, appears to have been a builder of both 
classes of temples.^ Appar, Sundarar, and Sambandar 

1 Mr. Srinivasaraghava Aiyangar's figures per head are Rs. 2-12-0 
and Rs. 1-12-0 per month. The Government of India's Rs. 20 a year 
per head. 

2 The Jains had to pay a ta.'c but the other Hindus also had to 
pay, such as the right-hand and left-hand castes. There is an ' inavari' 
which, it it means anything, ought to have been a tax on caste. 

3 Mv. Fergusson writes of the Tanjore temple : One of the pecu- 
liarities of the Tanjore temple is that all the sculptures iu the gopu- 
ras belong to the religion of Vishnu, while everything in the courtyard 
belongs to that of Siva, an instance of the extreme tolerance that 



RELIGION AND LITERATURE lijl 

are referred io in some of the inscriptions of Rajaraja, 
and somewhat later we find reference to tlie works of 
Kulasekhara and Tirumangaialvar, two of the twelve 
"S'aishnava Alvars. The god at the temple of Ukkal 
is referred to by the name Tiruvnymolideva. Dr. 
Hultzsch is of opinion that ISTammalvar, the author of 
the Tin(voij)noU, must have lived " centuries before 
A.u. 1000'. There is an inscription of Rajendra, of 
the battle of Koppaui fame, which makes provision 
for the enacting of the Rajakesarinatakam every year. 
Popular tradition makes Kulottunga and some at least 
of his successors great patrons of literature. This 
dynasty of the Cholas encouraged Tamil literature, but 
for the date of composition of the great body of extant 
works we have to look much earlier. 

prevailed in the ago at which it was erected before these religion." 
became antagonistic. 



CHAPTEE VII 

SBl BAMANUJACHARYA, HIS LIFE AND 
TIMES 

'To the religious history of India, the contributions 
that the soathern half has had to make have been 
many. The south generally enjoyed more peaceful 
development, and was long out of the convulsions that 
threw the nortla into confusion, and all the internal 
revolutions and external attacks sent out the pulse of 
the impact almost spent out to the south. This has 
been of great advantage, and it is precisely in the 
-dark ages of the north that often intercepted the 
brighter epochs, that the south sent out its light to 
relieve the darkness. 

This general character of the history of the north 
of India from the first centuries of the Christian era 
onwards makes a continuous history impossible on 
•certain lines ; while in the south, during this period, 
there has been a continuity of development amidst 
all the din and clang of war and dynastic revolutions. 
Our concern here is about the Vaishnava movement, 
and this has had a continuous history almost from 
the beginning of the Christian era. 

There has been considerable mis-impression that 
the Vaishnava movement originated in Eamanuja, and 
that all those who claim to be Vaishnavas (not includ- 
ing the disciples of Madhva who are Vaishnava in 
a narrower sense), both in the north and the south, can 
trace their particular form of Vedanta no earlier than 



MISIMPEF.SSIONS REGAKDINH BAMANU.IA 193 

Eamani^ja. On the basis of this misimpression, theories 
have been built up, time and again, that the charac- 
teristic features of the special teachings of Ramanuja 
have been borrowed from Christianity. The latest ex- 
ponent of this theory is Dr. Grieson, though he would 
make a considerable distinction between the Vaishnavas 
of modern times and those of the older, and, perhaps-, 
set those of the north against the south. This no doubt is 
an error, which arises from not giving due weight to the 
indebtedness of Eamanuja to those Tamil saints, who 
had gone before him long ere he came into the world. 
The hypothesis would be untenable, unless it could be 
proved that all these Tamil saints could be shown also 
to have visited the Christian shrine at Mylapore or 
elsewhere. Besides, even from the point of view of 
Sanskritic Vaishnavaism, it cannot be said to have been 
proven that the peculiar features of Ramanuja Vaishiia- 
vaism are not traceable to earlier works and teachers. 
Hence a life of Ramanuja based on historical material 
alone, and free from the legends that have gathered 
round it, as time wore on, would be of great advantage 
to clear away the wrong impressions that prevail regard- 
ing his life and teaching. 

That Ramanuja should have appeared in the eleventh 
century is quite as much of the mission's getting the 
man, as the advent of the Buddha in the sixth century 
before Christ. This century in the south of India 
was characterized by considerable religious ferment. 
It was then that each religious sect among the 
people felt the need for formulating a creed of its 
own, and for placing itself in a regularly organized 
religious body, so as to be able to hold its own in 
the midst of the disintegrating influences that gained 
dominance in society. That Eamanuja appeared and 
did what is ascribed to him is just in the fitness 
of things, having regard to the circumstances of the 
times. 

13 



194 ANCIENT INDIA 

There has been a succession of devotees called in 
Vaishnava parlance Alvars in contradistinction to a 
similar Saiva group called Adiyars. These two classes 
had considerable similarity with characteristic distinc- 
tions. They both laid stress on the doctrine of Bhakti 
as a means to the attainment of salvation, the one 
through Vishnu and the other through Siva. The 
Vaishnava tradition names twelve of the Alvars while 
the Saiva saints number sixty-three. The Tamil works 
of the former including a centum upon Ramanuja 
himself, constitute the Prabhandam 4,000, while those 
of the Saivas constitute a vaster collection of Teva- 
rams, etc. 

The twelve Alvars are in the traditional order . 
f (1) Poygai Alvar. 
I -\ (2) Bhutattu Alvar. 
I (3) Pey Alvar. 
II (4) Tirumalisai Alvar. 

j-j-y ( (5) Nammalvar. 

I (6) Madharakavi Alvar. 
IV (7) Kulasekharalvar. 

-rr ( (8) Periyalvar. 
1 (9) Andnl. 

r (10) Tondaradippodi Alvar. 
VI -j (11) Tiruppanalvar. 

1(12) Tirumangai Alvar. 
The actual dates ascribed by the hagiologists to 
these Alvars will not bear scrutiny, but the order in 
which they are mentioned is substantially correct. In 
order of importance, Xammalvar stands first, and it is 
his work that has the distinctive appellation TiruvGy- 
moli— ' the word of the mouth '. They were all regard- 
ed by the generations that succeeded them as mani- 
festations of divine wisdom to redeem the world from 
the perilous plights to which it had brought itself. 

The next group that followed, as the hagiologists 
would have us believe, in unbroken succession, is known 



TARENTAGE AND EAELY LIFE 195 

as Achaiyas (or preceptors) not so near to the divine, 
but still much raised above the ordinary man of the 
world. This orthodox succession of apostles include 
six names before Ramanuja, of which the two most 
important are Nathamuni and his grandson Alavandar. 
The great-grandson of this latter through one of his 
grand-daughters was Ivamanuja. 

AYhile Alavandar was still in occupation of the 
apostolic seat of the Yaishnavas at Srirangam, one of 
his grandsons requested permission of him to go and 
devote himself to the service of God on the Tirupati 
Hill. The permission was graciously accorded, and the 
young man went and settled there with his venerable 
father and two younger sisters. While there, two 
young men wishing to enter life as house-holders hap- 
pened to go to the holy place and sought each the 
hand of one of the sisters. Of these two Asuri Kesava 
Bhattar of Sri Perumbudiir wedded the elder, while 
Kamalanayana Bhattar of Malalaimangalam accepted 
the younger of the girls. Of the first pair m course 
of time was born a boy (in a.d. 101'/), whom the 
maternal uncle named Lakshmana (otherwise Rama- 
nuja or in Tamil, Ilaya Perumal). 

Of the childhood of Ramanuja, as of others in simi- 
lar positions of life, very little is known. There 
appears to have been nothing extraordinary in his 
career, except that he appears to have lost his father 
while young. He received the kind of education ordi- 
narily given to boys of his class and age along \\ilh 
his cousin (mother's sister's son), Govinda Bhattar, as 
he was called. The two young men had advanced 
sufficiently to seek a teacher in the Vedanta to instruct 
them. They went to a teacher of reputation holding 
his classes in Conjeevaram, and this change marks 
the turning point in the career of the young men. 

Under Yadavaprakasa, then, the two cousins Ramanuja 
and Govinda Bhattar were both studying the Vedanta 



196 ANCIENT INDIA 

assiduously. The former made such progress, and his 
great-grandfather at Srirangam heard such good re- 
ports of his remarkable advance, that he travelled 
all the way incognito to see the young man. This he 
did in the Deva Eaja shrine at Conjeevaram. Grati- 
fied with the look of the young man, he went back 
hoping that he might soon transfer the mantle of office 
to the youth of great promise that he had just seen. He 
did not wish to speak to Eamanuja lest it should at- 
tract attention and disturb Eamanuja's studies in any 
way. Eamanuja went on with his studies yet a while, 
when he began to feel that at times Yadavaprakasa's 
interpretations of Vedic passages were not quite up to 
his satisfaction. Oq one occasion, he even went the 
length of offering an explanation of his own, which 
struck those present, as more satisfactory than that of his 
master. This led to grave differences between master 
and disciple. Matters advanced a step further when, 
at the invitation of the ruler of the place, Yadavaprakasa 
failed in an attempt at exorcising. The prince was 
possessed and the spirit declined to move at Yadava's 
bidding. It would, however, go away if it were 
Eamanuja's pleasure that it should. Eamanuja was 
pleased to give the order and the ghost was raised. 
This made Yadava more jealous of his pupil and the 
crisis was reached when interpreting another Upani- 
shad. Yadava again rendered the passage in a some- 
what absurdly disrespectful manner. Eamanuja showed 
positive disapproval of what he considered a purposeful 
distortion of the texts. Yadavaprakasa asked Eama- 
nuja to leave his academy. Indeed he was advised to 
get rid of Eamanuja altogether. 

At the instigation of some of his disciples Yadava 
organized a pilgrimage to Benares, and Eamanuja and 
his cousin were among the party. The latter, having 
been more docile, stood in high favour with the master 
and was in the secrets of the plot to assassinate 



FIRST JOUENEY TO SRIEANGAM 197 

Eamanuja. It was arranged to kill him in the depths 
the forests, perhaps not very far from Kanchi. Infor- 
mation of this was given to Ramanuja in time. He 
escaped at dead of night, and journeyed back to 
Kanchi under the guidance of a kind hunter and 
huntress. At daybreak the latter asked for a httle 
water and, when Eamanuja got down a well to fetch 
her some, the pair disappeared. Eamanuja had not 
to travel much farther before he came in sight of the 
spires of the great temple at Kanchi. 

Having reached Kanchi and intimated to his mother 
what had happened and how he escaped death by 
divine intervention, he settled down as a householder 
at the instance of his mother, and devoted himself to 
the service of the god Devaraja at Kanchi. Alavandar 
was drawing near his end in the meanwhile, and 
those about him despatched the eldest among his dis- 
ciples to go and bring Eamanuja to Srlrangam. Periya- 
nambi, as this emissary was called, arrived at Kanchi 
and stood reciting one of the beautiful verses in praise 
of G-od (the Stotraratna) composed by his master 
Alavandar. Eamanuja's attention was drawn to the 
sl5kas (verses) in spite of his single-minded devotion 
to his preparation for the morning service. Turning 
round he asked the stranger who the composer of the 
piece was. Periyanambi answered it was his great 
master Alavandar. The next question was necessarily, 
whether he could see him. 'If you would go with 
me now ', said Periyanambi, ' I will take you to him ' 
Eamanuja hurried through his morning service and 
started with Periyanambi, having obtained permission 
of Devaraja for the journey. 

They journeyed along till they reached the northern 
side of Srirangam, when at a distance Ramanuja descried 
a group of men on the south bank of the Koleroon 
River. Approaching closer Periyanambi and his younger 
companion discovered that Alavandar was no more, and 



198 ANCIENT INDIA 

the group, consisting of his disciples, came there with 
the remains of the departed great one for its final 
disposal. Eamanuja was taken close to the bod}' to 
take a first and final look at the great master, when 
lo ! he saw three out of the five fingers of the right 
hand folded. Struck with this, he inquired whether 
the defect was noticed in life and the answer came that 
the defect was not physical and was not noticed in life. 
On further inquiry Eamanuja was told that the master 
had three of his cherished objects unfulfilled, namely, 
an easily read and understood commentary upon the 
Brahmasutra ; the giving of the names of Parasara and 
ShadagOpa to suitable persons who would make these 
names live among the people. Eamanuja promised 
to see these fulfilled and the fingers straightened. 
Eamanuja waited for the funeral ceremonies to be 
completed and returned to Kanchi to resume his 
duties of devotion to God. 

ilaving passed days in his usual round of service, 
Eamanuja felt that time was passing without any 
attempt on his part to perform what he had promised 
to do. Not knowing exactly what to do, he appealed 
to the elderly priest of the god Devaraja and wished 
him to ascertain the divine will regarding his own 
future. Tirukkachchinambi, as the priest was called, 
gave out the will of God, in the matter, in the following 
sloka : — 

' Sriman param-tatvam aham, matam me bhedah 
prapattirnirapaya hetuhu, 

NavasyakTcha smriti hiantyakale mokshaha, maha- 
pHrnaba iha aryavaryaha. ' 

' I am the supreme, my conviction is distinction, 
devotion is the unfailing cause of salvation, conscious 
volition not essential, release in the end ; at present 
Periyanambi is the venerable preceptor. ' 

In these six phrases Eamanuja was given the direc- 
tion for his future work, whether the actual direction 



hamanuja's initiation 199 

came from witliin himself or from without, or from 
those about him. He was to pin his faith to God and 
work out the qualified monistic system of Indian philo- 
sophy, accepting Periyanambi for his initiaton. He was 
to teach the doctrines of devotion to God, whose sell-im- 
posed duty it is to give salvation even without the con- 
scious volition of the person wishing it. Eamanuja felt 
the call and, with the permission of Devaraja, accorded 
through his priest, he started towards Srirangam. 

He halted at iMadhurantakam to pay his homage of 
worship to the god Eama in the temple there, situated 
on the tank bund. While in the act, he saw Periya- 
nambi, who was on his way to Kanchi. They both 
inquired of each other the purpose of his journey, and 
found that each had in a way come to the end of it. 
Eamanuja found the guru (preceptor) he sought, while 
Periyanambi's object was to take Eimanuja to Sriran- 
gam. In fact he liad been sent on that special mi^son 
by the disciples of tir^t degree of the late master A^a- 
vandar. At Eamanuja"s importunate entreaty Xambi 
initiated him into the mysteries of the hidden lore of 
the Vedanta of those times, in presence of the god Eama 
in the temple. Both Xambi and Eamanuja returned 
to Kanchi ; master and disciple together hved there 
for sometime. But their separation came soon and 
gave a quicker turn to the whole career of Eamanuja, 

Xambi and Eamanuja took up lodgings together 
and the two families lived amicably together for 
some time. Eamanuja, however, does not appear to 
have been very happy in the choice of his wife. He did 
not find in her that ready sympathy and compliance 
to his own wishes he expected of her. On one occasion 
he had invited Tirukachchinambi to his house. The 
two sat down, and conversed together for a while. 
When the former went away Eamanuja's wife quickly 
washed the seat occupied by him, the temple priest 
having been of a slightly inferior status in point of 



200 ANCIENT INDIA 

caste. Eamanuja felt aggrieved and overlooked this 
offence with an admonition. Again one morning while 
he was still by the accustomed well preparing for the 
morning service at the temple, a poor man asked him 
for food. He directed him home with instructions to 
demand food of Eamanuja's wife with the husband's per- 
mission. She said there was none available. The man 
returned telling Eamanuja how he fared. Eamanuja's 
inquiry on returning home proved that there was some 
food which might have been given to the person. 
Again he excused her. But the third offence proved 
to be the last straw, and was the most serious of 
all in Eamanuja's estimation. Eamanuja's wife and 
Periyanambi's both of them went to the same well 
to fetch water. It would appear that through the 
latter's carelessness some water from her vessel dropped 
into that of the other. This naturally led to some 
altercation in which the relative claims of the two 
families were rather too freely discussed by Eamanuja's 
wife. The other lady reported the matter to her hus- 
band, who rather than offend the good man quietly 
broke up his establishment and returned to Srirangam. 
Eamanuja soon found out the cause of Nambi's 
unceremonious departure, and resolved that the time 
had come for separating from his wife. He took 
advantage of an invitation from his father-in-law to 
send his wife away, and without further delay assumed 
the brown robes of a sannyasi (he who has renounced 
the world). This step at once added to the rising 
reputation of Eamanuja, and disciples began to gather 
round him. It was now that disciples first appear 
round Yatiraja (king of hermits) as he came to be 
called. It was probably now also that the question 
assumed importance whether a sannyasi should be of 
the Ekadandi or Tridandi (single rod or triple rod, as 
the symbol of office). The Vaisbnava version says 
that Yadavaprakasa, his late master, became a convert 



FUIITHEE INITIATION '201 

to Ramaniija under the name of CTOvindayogi and wrote 
the work Yatidharyna Samuchchaijam. (The inquiry 
into the rules of conduct of a hermit). 

While Ramanuja was making progress in this man- 
ner, the disciples of Alavandar at Srirangam wished to 
get him to live in their midst, and to occupy the seat 
of their late master which had remained unoccupied 
for lack of a suitable successor. This time they sent 
another of Alavandar's immediate disciples, his own 
son, by name Tiruvarangapperumal Araiyar. Eamanuja 
followed the Araiyar and settled down at Srirangam. 
It was now that he set about seriously to acquire the- 
qualifications, which alone would justify his accession 
to the high position to which he was looked upon by 
the public as the most worthy candidate. He had, 
therefore, to get himself initiated into every depart- 
ment of learning and philosophy, which then con- 
stituted the Vaishnava lore. Periyanambi having be- 
come his gtirii (preceptor) in one part, he had to seek- 
initiation of TirukkOttiytirnambi for another (mantrar- 
tham). He -.vent six times in succession and on all 
these occasions the master was not satisfied with the 
earnestness of the disciple and declined to open his 
mind. Eamanuja in despondency thought of giving 
up the business when he was asked to try another 
time. He succeeded in inducing the great one to un- 
lock his secrets ; after the customary promise not to 
publish except to a worthy disciple previously tried. 
Eamanuja agreed and found the secrets of such 
efficacy for salvation that he taught all who were 
about him what he learnt. The guru summoned the 
disciple to his presence and asked him how it was that 
he had so flagrantly transgressed the injimctions of 
his master. Eamanuja begged to be prescribed the 
punishment. The guru replied that the punishment 
would be 'eternal hell' hereafter, but nothing here.- 
Eamanuja replied with characteristic beneficence that 



■202 ANCIENT INDIA 

he would gladly suffer hell himself, if by so doing 
he was instrumental in ministering to the attainment 
•of salvation to the suffering millions of humanity. 
The master appreciated the spirit of the disciple's 
transgression, and said that the particular darsana 
(section of Vedanta) might hereafter be known as 
Bdmdnuja darsana. 

At this period Eamanuja had to intervene in the 
affairs of his cousin and companion at school, Govinda 
Bhattar. This young man had continued his journey 
.along with Yadavaprakasa to the Ganges. It would 
appear that while he bathed in the holy waters of 
the river, a phallic emblem struck to the palm of 
his hand. Hence the name Ullangai Gonarndanaya- 
nar. From that time forward he became a stauncli 
Saiva and resided at Kalahasti not far from his 
maternal uncle at Tirupati. At Eamanuja's request 
the uncle met the nephew, and brought him back to 
allegiance to the Vaisbnava persuasion under the new 
sacerdotal designation of Embar. Eamanuja's name 
had begun to attract attention, and be felt that he 
should still acquire other qualifications before be- 
coming ever}' way the head of a darrana. 

He began his studies in Tiruvoymoli first under 
Tiruvarangapperumal Araiyar and then under Tiru- 
malaiyandan. While with the latter, he bad occasion 
to show his special acuteness of intellect in suggest- 
ing special interpretations of important texts, which 
■on further discussion were found to have been in full 
agreement with the views of Alavandar. This new 
acquisition completed his round of qualifications and 
he became in fact a successor of Alavandar in every 
sense of the term. 

Eamanuja's fame had spread so wide and he came 
to be known so well that his little cousin at Tirupati 
(son of bis maternal uncle) evinced a precocious desire 
io attach himself to Eamanuja. The father sent 



RAMANUJA S FIRST DISPUTATION 203 

the Ijoy ia charge of a nephew of his own, and 
the two arrived at Srirangani, where Ramanuja's life 
had been saved by the unlooked for intervention of 
a good woman. Eamanuja, as a sannjasi had to 
go round at mid-day from house to house for food. 
One of the house-holders had instructed his wife to 
poison the food and serve it to him. The woman 
felt compelled to obey the husband, but, on giving the 
handful to Eamanuja, could not bear the feeling that 
the good man would die of the food. She, therefore, 
prostrated herself before him while getting back into 
the house. It is recognized as a rule of practice that 
whf-'n a sannyasi goes out tor alms (biksha), that no one 
should make the usual salutation. This strange con- 
duct on the part of the lady struck Ramanuja and he 
■suspected foul play. On exaruaiation the ptiisdn was 
discovered, and ever after it was arranged that the 
•elder of the two new arrivals should undertake the 
food supply of Eamanuja. In spite of this attempt 
at assassination, all had so far gone smoothly ; but 
the life of Eamanuja becomes stormy hereafter. Hio 
fame had spread far and the few prominent conver- 
sions attracted attention. Whether he wished it or 
no, he had to make liis position good again--t all 
comers and had to assume the role of a controversialist. 
At this time there arrived at Srirangam an Advaita 
sannyasi, by name Yegiiamurti, in the course of a 
controversial tour through India. Then there began be- 
tween the two a great disputation regarding the rela- 
tive superioritj' of their respective creeds. For sixteen 
days they went on with no decisive result either \\ay, 
and Eamanuja was somewhat anxious about his own 
position, when it struck him that he might derive 
some help from Alavandar's works. He referred to 
the latter's jNIayavadakandanam (a refutation of the 
idealistic theory). Thus armed he overcame his ad- 
versary on the seventeenth day and, as a result, 



204 ANCIENT INDIA 

enlisted his rival among his followers under the 
Vaishnava designation of Arulalapperumal Emberu- 
manar. 

Sometime after Eamanuja felt that he might con- 
veniently pay the long-wished-for visit to his uncle, 
who sent word through his nephew that he very 
much wished to see him. Eamanuja then set forward 
for Tirupati, one of the three ' holy of holies ' of the 
Sri Vaishnava?. He stayed a year receiving instruc- 
tion in the Ramayana from his maternal uncle there, 
who at the end of the period made over to him his 
two sons. His preparations were now complete and 
as he was growing old, he set about fulfilling his 
undertaking to Alavandar. The first of his three 
promises was the writing out of such a commentary 
for the Bralimasutra as would embody the views of 
the qualified monistic school of thought. It was 
absolutely essential for a due performance of this 
work that he should acquaint himself with the previ- 
ous commentators, particularly of the Bodhdyana- 
vritti. This naturally was not easy of acquisition for 
one of his intentions explicit and implied. He had 
to go about much before he found access to a library 
in the north, containing the work, where he was 
allowed just to read it through. He felt that it was 
not enough when a quick disciple among his followers 
came to his rescue by saying that he had completely 
mastered the work and could give references when- 
ever wanted. This was one among his first disciples, 
who lived to render yet greater services to his master. 
"With the help of Kiirattalvan — for such was the 
name of this stout-hearted and quick-minded disciple — 
Ramfmnja wrote out the three works, the essence of 
the Vedanta (Veddiitasdram), a resume of the Vedan- 
ta {Veddnta Sangraliam), the light of the Vedanta 
(Veddntadvpam) . He also wrote, or rather gave out, the 
commentaries on the Brdhmdsutra and Bhagavafqita. 



EAMANUJA S JOUEKEY TO THE KORTH 205 

This list of ^YO^ks redeemed Eamanuja from his first 
promise. 

But these must be accepted before Kamanuja could 
feel he had done his dutj^ to his master. He had, 
therefore, to start on a tour to ditfereiit places to 
secure the approval of the learned. This tour natur- 
ally took him to the great seat of learning, Kasmir. 
There at SarasvatlpTta (the seat of learning) he read 
through the work in an assembly of philosopher.-, 
and obtained from them the approval of no less an 
authority than ' Sarasvati ' herself. As a token of 
her approval she presented Eamanuja with the image 
of Hayagrlva (horse-necked, an aspect of Vishnu) and 
said that his commentary might thereafter be known 
Sn Bhdshya (the commentary). It is because of this 
distinction that among his disciples Ramanuja is 
known Bhashyakarar (maker of tJic Bhashya). The 
image of Hayagrlva has come do^-n to the present 
generation and is believed to be that which is the 
object of worship at the Parakalamutt at Mysore. 

Keturning from the north he had tt) pass by way 
of Tirupati where matters had assumed a serious 
aspect on a dispute as to the nature of the deity 
there. The Saivas claimed the shrine to be that 
of god Siva while the Yaishnavas claimed it as 
that of Vishnu. The matter had, therefore, to be 
settled one way or the other, and they agreed to leave 
the decision to the god himself. It was arranged 
that one evening both parties should assemble and 
lock up the ' sanctum sanctorum ' having placed the 
weapons peculiar to each deity. The shrine was to 
be that of Vishnu or Siva according as the one set 
or the other was assumed by god. It was found the 
next morning that the image had assumed the disc 
and conch characteristic of Vishnu, and ever after 
the shrine appears to have been taken to be that 
of Vishnu. Having settled this dispute RamanuJLi 



206 ANCIENT INDIA 

returned to Srirangam and set about arranging matters 
for getting through the remaining items of work he 
had undertaken. 

Eamanuja's foremost disciple Kurattalvan was for 
long childless. One night he had to go to bed with- 
out food, having had to fast the whole day for lack 
of provisions. The bell in the great temple pealed,, 
indicating that the night-worship was going on. The 
devoted wife thought to herself that it was hardly 
fair that god Ranganatha should accept regular worship 
when the staunchest of his devotees lay starving.. 
Soon after the temple priests brought a supply of food 
from the temple and knocked at the door of Kurat- 
talvan. The wife opened the door and delighted with 
the arrival of food, woke up the restless husband and 
fed him. As the direct outcome of this divine favour,, 
she soon became mother of two sons to one of whom 
at the instance of Kamanuja, the name Parasara was- 
given. This boy had grown up to man's state when 
Ramanuja was looking out for some one through whom 
he might fulfil the second object. This young man 
Parasara Bhatta was commissioned to write a com- 
mentary on the Sahasrandma (the thousand names 
of Vishnu). This work of Parasara Bhatta fulfilled 
the second of the desiderata of Alavandar. 

There then reniaiaed the means of perpetuating the 
name of Nammalvar, the author of the TiruvOymoli. 
Ramanuja was perhaps thinking of a commentary 
himself. It would appear he was contemplating within 
a closed room a particular verse of the work attempt- 
ing to realize its full significance when his cousin 
looked through a chink in the door. The young man, 
Pillan by name, forthwith put the question whether 
the master was pondering the verse referring to the 
god at Tirumalirunjolai. Ramanuja was struck with 
the acuteness of the young man, and commissioned 
him to write out the 6000 commentary on the 



RAIIANUJA AND BITTI DEVA '207' 

Tiravoymoli, giving him the name Tirukkuruhaippiran 
Pillan, the first part of which being one of the many 
surnames of Nammalvar. This brought the third of 
Ajavandar's desiderata to fulfilment. Eama.nuja could 
now feel his mission at an end and settle down to 
a life of quiet teaching. This way \ears rolled by. 

He was not, however, altogether unmolested. A 
change of ruler, or a change in his surroundings 
brought about a change in the spirit of complete 
tolerance that as a rale characterised the adminis- 
tration. Be the cause what it may, the Chola ruler, 
for the time being, often given the name Kulottunga, 
took it into his head to demand assent to the doc- 
trine, ' Sivat parataram nasti'. 'There is no Being 
superior to Siva ' This seems to have been aimed 
particularly against the Eamanuja propagandists, per- 
haps because of a few prominent conversions. This 
challenge was openly thrown out, and naturally enough 
everybody pointed to Eamanuja as the person whose 
assent ought to be obtained. Eamanuja was summoned 
to appear in the royal presence. 

Eamanuja's friends feared danger, and to avuid it 
Kurattalvan undertook to personate Eamanuja. Assum- 
ing the robes of the sannyasi, Kurattalvan went along 
with the venerable Periyanamhi to the Chola Court, 
while Eamanuja assuming the dress of a house-holder 
and at the head of a small body of adherents betook 
himself to the kingdom of the Hoysaia Bitti ]3eva, 
Travelling along the hanks of tlie Kaveri, Eamanuja 
settled down at Saligram where he lived for a period 
of twelve years, while Bitti Dfwa was just carving 
out for himself a kingdom here, along the southern 
marches of the Chalakya kingdom of Vikiamaditya 
and the Chola frontier in the north-west. 

A daughter of the king was possessed and after 
failing in all other attempts at exorcism Eruuanuja's 
aid was called in. Sure enough the ghost was raised. 



'208 ANCIENT INDIA 

-and Bitti Deva agreed to become the disciple of 
Bamanuja. This could not, however, be without over- 
-coming the Jains in controversy, as the king was reputed 
to have been a Jain. Eamanuja had the best of it 
in the disputation and the bulk of the Jains either 
embraced the Bamanuja darsana or were ordered to 
he ground down in oil mills. This latter threat, how- 
-ever, was not carried into effect through the intervention 
of Ramanuja. Eamanuja returned to Saligram. 

It was while here that Eamanuja's stock of namam 
-{the white earth which serves for the Vaishnava caste 
mark on the forehead) ran out of stock and Eamanuja 
was much concerned. He dreamt overnight that there 
was a hill of that material, not far from Tondanur, 
-where he made the acquaintance with Bitti Deva. 
Following the clue he obtained, in his dream, and 
through the good offices of Vitala Deva (Bitti Deva) 
Eamanuja got the spot marked or t in his dreim dug 
up ; when lo ! there appeared beneath a small shrine. 
He then got it consecrated as Tirunarayanapuram 
(Melukote of the maps). Thinking of a suitable 
image for this shrine, he dreamt of the image of 
Eamaprya, which was at Delhi in possession of the 
daughter of the ruler at the time. He had to under- 
take a journey to northern India again. Having got 
possession of the image semewhat miraculously, he 
returned with it. As the princess proved inconsolable 
without her pet image, the king (whoever he was) 
sent a party of men to bring back Eamanuja who 
found shelter in a Panchama village. It is out of 
gratitude for this protection that he ordained the ad- 
mission of the latter into the temple on the car festi- 
val. The consecration of the image and the completion 
-of the temple are placed in 1021 Saka or a.d., 1099 
which appears to antedate the event much. He had to 
make good his position here again as against every- 
body else, and held a successful disputation against 



bamanuja's return '209 

the Bauddhas of Padmagiri (Sravana Belgola). He 
then resided at Tirunarayanapuram expecting news 
from the south. 

While Eamanuja was busy doing the important 
things detailed above, Kurattalvan and Periyanambi 
went to the Chola Court in obedience to the royal 
summons. There the question was put to them 
whether they subscribed to the statement ' ^ivat para- 
taram nasti ' ! Kiirattalvan subscribed with a reserva- 
tion 'Dr5namasti tatahparam '. ' There is Drona above 
Siva'!, taking Siva in the sense of a measure, Drona 
being a bigger measure. For this impertinence the 
angry king ordered the putting out of the eyes 
of the two Vaishnavas. Periyanambi, a venerable old 
ruan, died on the way ; but the sturdier Kurattalvan, 
nothing daunted, returned and lived at Srirangam. 
After a time the Chola ruler died of a carbuncle, 
which the Vaishnavas put down to be the result of 
the ruler's cruelty to the devoted adherents of Eama- 
nuja. News of the death of the Chola was taken to 
Eamanuja by the messenger whom he had sent to 
condole with Kurattalvan in his misfortune. On 
receipt of this somewhat re-assuring news, Eamanuja 
made up his mind to return. 

Consoling his beneficent disciple as best he could, 
Eamanuja had to set about arranging matters for the 
Adhyayan5tsava, an annual festival for the recitation 
of the works of the Tamil saints, for which it was 
the practice to fetch the image of Nammalvar from 
Alvar Tirunagari in the Tinnevelli District. This having 
been a year of heavy rainfall it was found impossible 
to bring the image of the Alvar all the way. Eama- 
nuja in consequence consecrated a shrine, and restored 
the image of the Alvar in Srirangam itself, so that no 
similar difficulty might be experienced for the future. 
It was on the occasion of this festive celebration 
that one of the disciples of Kurattalvan dedicated 
14 



■210 ANCIENT INDIA 

the centum in honour of Eamanuja on the model of 
the decade of Madhurakavi on Nammalvar. Amudan 
of Arangam, the author of the centum, it would 
appear, was the Smarta manager of the temple at 
■Srirangam, and had been not over accommodating to 
the Vaishnava apostle or his disciples. When his 
old mother was drawing near her end, the son duti- 
fully inquired if she desired anything he might do 
for her. She wished that either Eamanuja himself, 
or one of his nominees, might be invited to accept 
food from him on the occasion of her funeral cere- 
monies. Amudan had no alternative but to make the 
request of Eamanuja, who advised that his indomita- 
ble disciple Kurattalvan might be asked. The latter 
accepted the invitation and denaanded for satisfaction 
the keys of the temple, which Amudan surrendered 
and became henceforward the disciple of Kurattalvan. 
This Amudan in his new-born zeal composed the 
centum, and begged hard that it might be accepted. 
Ertmanuja accepted the dedication, and permitted its 
inclusion in the prabandha 4000 at the earnest plead- 
ings of his first disciples. Having made provision for 
the regular annual recital of this 4000, Eamanuja got 
images of the Alvars and Andal set u.p in Srirangam 
and other important places, where also similar annual 
celebrations were ordained. 

He then paid a visit to Alvar Tirunagari and, on 
his return, heard that his maternal uncle at Tirupati 
was no more. He then repaired thither and got the 
funeral ceremonies duly performed by the elder of 
the two cousins of his, the younger of whom he had 
long regarded as his son in apostolic succession. It 
was while he was yet here that he heard that the 
Govindaraja temple at Chidambaram had been over- 
thrown and the image cast into the sea. He caused 
the image to be brought over, and housed it in the 
temple at the foot of the sacred hill where again he 



MISSION AT AN END 211 

caused to be set up the images of the Alvars and 
Andal as elsewhere. He then returned to Srirangam 
by way of Kanchi and Madhurantakam. After this 
he went to Tirumalirunjolai and Srlvilliputtur to 
complete his round of pilgrimaye to the sacred 
shrines of Vishnu in the south. Having thus estab- 
lished his influence throughout South India, and 
having organized and popularized the teachings of 
Visishtadvaita-vedanta he could now think that his 
mission was at an end. He arranged for the con- 
tinuance of his teaching by nominating seventy-four 
from among the worthiest of his followers. Of this 
number four had special custody of the Bhdshya, 
one among whom had the Pvahhanda teaching also. 
This one was no other than his cousin-son Pillan, 
who became the actual successor of Ramanuja. 

"While he was preparing to depart from this world, 
he found the most indomitable among his compan- 
ions anticipate him in this as well. Having got his 
funeral rites duly performed, Eamanuja felt that he 
had arrived at the end of his mission, when again, at 
the importunate entreaty of his disciples, he had to 
permit three of his own images to be consecrated and 
set up in Srirangam, Sriperumbilthilr, and Tirunara- 
yanapuram. This example has been followed later on, 
and now every Vishnu temple in the south has, as a 
necessary adjunct to it, a little shrine for Ramanuja 
Consoling his sorrowing disciples and companions, 
Ramanuja felt the call and so passed away quietly, 
having completed the one hundred and twentieth 
year of his age. 

The above, in brief, is an outliue of the life of Rama- 
nuja, according to the most authoritative tradition. This 
tradition has a tendency to gather volume, as time 
passes, and there have been as many varieties of this 
biography as there have been those interested in hagi- 
ologists. But this account relies particularly on two 



212 ANCIENT INDIA 

contemporary works, which have special claims for our 
acceptance Neither of them is a professed biography, 
and both of them were written for the acceptance of 
contemporaries. One of them had been read before 
Eamanuja and obtained his imprimatur. This is the 
work of Amudan of Arangam. It consists of one 
hundred stanzas in Tamil, included in the Frabandha 
of the Tamil part of the Vaishnava lore. The other is 
the work of a disciple also, by name Vaduhanambi (or 
in Sanskrit Andhraptirna), probably because he was a 
Telugu man. This is called Yatiraja Vaibhavam and 
consists of 114 slokas. This work describes in a way 
quite free from exaggeration all that Eamanuja did. It 
strikes one as being particularly reliable. The name 
of the author occurs among the seventy-four succes- 
sors of first degree of Bamanuja, and his obligation 
to the master is indicated in the sloka which is now 
quoted : — • 

' Kamschid Kasminschid arthe pratiniyatataya san- 
niyojyantarangan, tatra kshirartha kritye pratiniyata- 
maho dasamapyatyanarham, Kurvan sriman yatindras- 
svapatavinata tatdasanudasam mamapyatyantabhaktam 
svahitamiva sada gopayan sopi jiyat.' 

Having ordered his most trusted disciples to accept 
particular offices, Ramanuja ' who protected his worth- 
less servant, servant of his servants, entrusted with 
the service of providing milk, may he prosper.' 

It now remains to examine from available histori- 
cal material what truth there is in the above account, 
and how far certain impressions that prevail regard- 
ing Eamanuja and his teachings find justification 
from his life and times. Having already recounted 
the incidents in the life of Eamanuja, we shall 
now proceed to examine critically, whether the main 
incidents of his life are what his disciples claim them 
to have been, and whether recent research, so far as 
it bears upon these, lends any support to these as a 



CBITICISM OF THE LIFE 213 

whole. The following incidents will be examined 
seriatim, as they appear to be arranged in chronological 
order : — 

1. Ramanuja's conversion of Yadavaprakasa, his 
preceptor. 

2. His conversion of Yeguamurti, an advaita san- 
nyasin. 

3. Settlement of the Saiva Yaishnava dispute about 
the god at Tirupati. 

4. The Chola persecution of Eamanuja. 

0. The Hoysala Yishnuvardhana's conversion. 

6. Foundation of the temple at Tirunarayanapuram 
(Melukote). 

7. The conversion of Amudan of Arangam, the 
author of Sdmanuja Nufrandliadhi. 

5. The consecration of the Govinda temple at- the 
foot of the Tirupati Hill. 

For the purposes of this again we shall, as far 
as possible, have recourse to such works of reliable 
authority, as those of Eamanuja's contemporaries and 
immediate successors only. 

1. Y^adavaprakasa was an advaitic teacher of repu- 
tation at Conjeevaram. He was also a writer of 
authority in his philosophy ; and in his days, and after, 
he was a leader of a school of thought ; that Ve- 
danta Desika quotes him, as the best representative of 
advaitic exposition, and disputes his position. He is 
the reputed author of Yatidharma Samuclicliayam and 
of the Yddava Nikandu. According to others the two 
works are from separate persons. At any rate the 
Y'^adava of the former work is in all probability, the 
philosophical expounder of the advaitic system. In 
the face of these facts, it would appear impossible 
that he should have been the first convert to the 
teachings of his ex-disciple Eamanuja, whom he did 
not love overmuch as a disciple. I have long thought 
that the story was a pious fabrication. There is no 



214 ANCIENT INDIA 

reference at all in the Yatidharma Samuchchayam to 
his conversion. This is a work which undertakes to 
examine what the duties of a sannyasi are according 
to the best authority ; and the author seems to hold 
that there is good authority for both classes of san- 
nyasins — those with the sacred thread and tuft of hair 
on the head (the Vaishnava), and those without these 
adjuncts (the Saiva). Except a reference to the ' Pra- 
bhandas in the invocatory verse and to the invocation 
itself being addressed to Vishnu as Dattatreya, the work 
is non-committing in this particular. But the work, 
Bdmdnuja Narrandhddhi of Amudan of Arangam, one 
of his own converts, refers often to success in disputation 
against great controversialists ; but does not mention 
names though the references are such, as would warrant 
the inference that they were in particular Yadavaprakasa 
and the sannyasin Yegnamurti (stanzas 58, 64, and 88). 
But in two works of Vedanta Desika coming just three 
generations after, or say about a century, we have direct 
references to the purpose. The first half of verse thir- 
teen of Yatirdja Saptati refers to ' ' Svabhalat uddhrita 
Yadavaprakasa', or he that had up-rooted with his own 
strength Yadavaprakasa. This need not necessarily 
mean conversion, but that such was actually the case is 
clearly stated in one of his other works, Satadhiishani} 

1 I am obliged for this reference to the late lamented Tarkatlrtha 
Punditaratnam Kasturirangachar of Mysore. 



TIBUPATI CONTROVERSY 215 

Vedanta Desika followed Kamanuja at an interval 
of three generations only, and we may take him as 
sufficient authority for the fact, as he takes Yadava's 
opinions and seriously controverts them in other parts 
of his works. 

2. As to YegiJamtirti's conversion we are not in a 
position to say anything, as nothing more is known of 
him than the fact of his having been a sannyasin 
Ekadandi). 

3. The question about Tirupati is of far greater im- 
portance, the more so as there has recently been 
a lively controversy about the same subject in the 
columns of the journals and papers, consequent on Mr. 
Venkyya's reference in his official report to the temple 
being a §aiva one. It will be seen that the Vaishnava 
account says that the god on the hill had just lent 
his characteristic weapons, the disc and the conch, 
to the Tondaman Chakravarti. This evidently refers 
to the conquest of Kalingam by Karunakara Tondaman 
about A.D. 1111. Messrs. M. Narayanasami Iyer, b.a., 
B.L. and T. A. Gopinatha Rau, m.a., have both written 
concerning this in the Sen Tamil. The former inclines 
to the Vaishuava view and the latter to the Saiva. The 
question, therefore, needs to be examined with care. 
The following facts concerning the point appear to be 
agreed upon. The authors of the Tevdiam have not at 
all celebrated the shrine ; the Vaishnava Alvars have. 
The Tamil epic Silappadhikdram has explicitly given 
the temple a Vaishnava character, and there is no 
possibility of mistake here. On this account, thetefore, 

cTcT^ q%TTf;qf>q^firf5:^^ (j^^^foi^tErfq - 3i?f[fq 



216 ANCIENT INDIA 

Mr. Gopinatha Bau would place the Silappadhikaram 
after Poygai Aivar. Whether he puts it also after Eama- 
nuja is not quite clear, though he shows a wish to 
bring it to the middle of the twelfth century. This gen- 
tleman holds that the original god was Subrahmanya 
as the place is called Ijangoil, and the god is referred 
to once or twice as Kumara, though not without other 
adjuncts. The latter is quite decisive according to him. 
So it would be, if the premises were quite as they 
are represented to be. One fundamental defect here 
is the taking out of words without reference to their 
context. Mr. Gropinatha Rau refers to the god being 
known as Balajee among the northerners. This may 
be so, but Balajee is not exclusively applied to Subrah- 
manya, if applied to him at all. There are numbers 
of persons known as Balajee, but the word stands for 
Balakrishna. This is equally sound. There is some- 
thing more. The early Alvilrs, Poygai Alvar, Bhutat- 
tar and Pey Alyar delight in referring to God in one of 
his aspects as a child, either as Rama or Krishna, 
preferably the latter. One has only to look through 
the writings of these to be convinced of this. Why 
they do so is beside the point. It is this Bala- 
krishna — he is not so named in the work — that has 
given rise to the name Balajee*, since Krishna, as 
Vitpba, is very popular in the Mahrata country. Any- 
how this interpretation of Balajee is in keeping with 
the writings of those Alvars who had bestowed their 
best thoughts upon God's manifestation at Tirupati. 
Pey Alvar lends the greatest support to this conten- 
tion as to the nature of the deity. He refers to the 
God as @jrr/BQL0T3"sBr iOessTMsmessT'ST (61); eQsir.w<a;eiifls; 

1 One at least of the explanations for this designation is that, when the 
northerners first had a look of the image, they were so struck with the 
softly beautiful look that they exclaimed in surprise Bala (Damsel). 
This was the account given by the people in the locality. 



CHARACTER OF THE DEITY 217 

■sjr/L.LD C^S) mirsk (ipa^Q^Test ns sir (mpiEiSi^, (njfnuii^ 
(^LpuQiumu (11). It will thus be seen that he refers 
to the same deity in four different ways as above. 
They are, of course, to be taken synonymously. Eefer- 
ences one and three may be doubtful, but the other two 
must be used to help us in the interpretation. Re- 
ference two clearly indicates one of the acts of young 
Krishna, and reference four, though not equally clearly, 
to an achievement of Vishnu, when Brahma was 
about to grant the boons sought of him by Eavana. 
If a more direct indication be needed, the stanza 
sixty-two makes it clear to any unprejudiced mind. 
There are a number of places sacred to Yishnu and 
the names given are Vaishnava names, e.g. Tiruva- 
rangam and Tirukudandhai (Kumbhakonam). There is 
thus nothing to bear out the contention that the god 
there was ever meant to be Subrahmanya. Stanza sixty- 
three of the same third Tiruvandadi states clearly that 
the manifestation of God there is in the united form 
of Siva and Yishnu. This is borne out by the stanzas 
five and ninety-eight of the first Tiruvandadi. This 
would, therefore, make it clear that the god was of 
the ' harihara ' type. Then the question arises why it is 
that Ilango speaks of it as a Vishnu temple in such clear 
terms. The explanation, perhaps, would be that the 
temple had been known only as a Vishnu temple, though 
there was the duplex character in the idol. This 
would be noticed only by a devotee, who was in 
close touch with the temple, and this Ilango could not 
pretend to have been. It is not strange if most people 
in these days do not know this. Its established reputa- 
tion as a A'^ishnu temple accounts for the omission 
of Tirupati by the Nayanmars of the Saivas. How then 
was it that the Saivas laid claim to it in the days of 
Bamanuja? Raman uja's tinie was remarkable for the re- 
vival of the Prahhandam, which was being taught much 
more widely than before. Besides this Eamanuja's 



218 



ANCIENT INDIA 



cousin's conversion must have made the Saivas alive 
to the danger of this Vaishnava neighbourhood. So 
on the old grounds of the dual form of the image 
they revived their claims, particularly as the ruling 
sovereign was likely to lean to the Saiva side. Naturally 
enough Eamanaja appealed to a trial by ordeal of some 
sort. Ever after, there appears to have been no dispute 
as to the character of the deity. This must have taken 
place sometime after A. d. 1111-2, the probable date 
of the conquest of Kalingam. 

4. The next item of importance in the life of Eama- 
nuja is the Chola persecution. The Chola ruler at the 
time was Kulottunga, the Chalukya-Chola (A. d. 1070 
to 1118). Most of the Cholas were Saivas, but they 
were tolerant of other religions as well, while some 
of them even went the length of endowing Vishnu 
temples. This Kulottunga was not particularly narrow- 
minded, as he made a grant even to the Bauddha 
settlement at Negapatam. But as the Vaishnava 
account itself states he was persuaded by others into 
compelling all to assent to the doctrine of the suprem- 
acy of Siva. This is not at all improbable, consid- 
ering that this was the period of great Saiva activity 
and the ruler was the special patron of Sekkilar. 
The general body of Vaishnavas were not ill-treated, 
but Eamanuja's active work at Srirangam attracted 
attention and ended in the blinding of Kurattalvar and 
the old preceptor of Kamanuja himself. This must 
have taken place about the nineties of the eleventh 
century. Eamanuja was compelled to leave the country. 
His immigration into the Mysore country brings us to 
the next important incident in his life. 

5 and 6. He moved up the Kavery and settled at 
Saligram, from which place he was invited to the head- 
quarters of Vitala Deva Ea^^a or Bitti Deva. This latter 
could not have been the ruling sovereign at the time, as 
his brother lived to the end of the century and a few 



EAMANUJA IN MYSOEE 219' 

years later. During the last years of the century he was 
still active in the Gangavadi frontier, and it was while 
here that he must have met Eamanuja. His elder 
brother ' had for his god Isa ', which probably meant 
that he was a Saiva. Bitti Deva was converted and 
helped Eamanuja in the restoration of the temple of 
Narayana at Melukote. I have elsewhere^ shown that 
the persecution of the Jains ascribed to Vishnuvar- 
dhana is hardly supported by facts. The consecration of 
the temple at Melukote is placed in the year a.d. 1099, 
twelve years after Eamanuja's arrival at Saligram. This 
may have been the case, as Eamanuja would have taken 
care not to provoke the hostility of the ruler of his new 
domicile. Vishnuvardhana thenceforward supported the 
cause of Eamanuja and encouraged Vishnavaism. He 
went on building temples and endowing them, not 
without supporting the other temples and creeds as well, 
though not perhaps to the same extent. This activity 
culminated in the building and consecration of the 
temple at Belur in (or about) a.d. 1117.' There is 
nothing improbable in the date, as it was in this year 
that he could claim to have become master of the 
Gangavadi. So Eamanuja must have lived in Mysore 
for nearly a quarter of a century. It was the death of 
the Chola Kulottunga in a.d. 1118 that enabled him 
to return. But then there is an inconsistency with 
respect to dates. As the Guruparamparai states, it 
appears that the Chola died soon after the blinding of 
the two friends of Eamanuja ; but in actual fact the 
death of the persecuting Chola came many years after, 
if the date a.d. 1099 be taken as correct for the 
Melukote incident, which appears too early to be true. 
It would be too much to expect this kind of accuracy in 
such an account and in one of its professed character. 



1 Chapter IX. Vishnuvardhana, following. 

2 Hassan volume of the Bpigraphia Carndlaka Ins. Belur 68 and 71. 



220 ANCIENT INDIA 

7. The next incident of importance is the conversion 
of Amudan of Arangam, the manager of the temple at 
Srirangam, a non- Vaishnava. For this we have evidence 
of the convert himself. He is the author of the 
Bamdnuja Nurrandddi and in verses three, four and 
seven of the work he makes it clear that he was a convert 
by favour of Eamanuja and Kurattalvar. In verses 
eight and twenty-one, he clearly describes Eamanuja's 
relation to the Alvars and Nadhamuni and Alavandar 
(Yamunaitturaivar), in spite of opinions to the contrary 
by scholars who implicitly believe in the opinion of 
Dr. Caldwell. Not only this. The centum (in fact 108) 
of his stanzas gives in a small span, mostly allusively but 
none the less clearly, the main achievements of Eama- 
nuja, and thus becomes the contemporary authority 
for most of the facts of Eamanuja's life as detailed above. 
The moderation of tone and sobriety of language 
-commend its authority the more, for otherwise Eama- 
nuja would not have been persuaded to include it 
among the Prahliandam 4000. 

8. Lastly comes the construction and consecration 
of the Govinda shrine at the foot of the Tirupati hill. 
This affords the best clue to the date of Eamanuja. The 
Guruparaiiiparai gives this as the last act of a busy life 
under circumstances which, thanks to the researches of 
Brahma Sri E. Eaghava Iyengar, Court Pandit of 
Ramnad and Editor of the Sen Tamil, the organ of the 
Madura Tamil Sangam, prove to be quite historical. 
The story, it will be remembered, is that the Govinda 
Eaja temple at Chidambaram having been removed from 
the premises of the great Siva temple, Eamanuja and 
his disciples got the idol enshrined in a new temple 
:at Tirupati. In a number of historical works relating 
to the period, particularly in the Kulottunga Cholati 
Via of Ottakiittan,^ this achievement is ascribed to Kulot- 

1 Sen Tamil, vol. Ill, part, v, pp. 166-7. 



GOVINDA SHRINE 221 

tunga II, the son and successor of Viia-ama Chola and 
one of the patrons of Kuttan himself. There it is 
said that he renovated the Saiva temple and plated 
the roofing with gold — incidentally mentioning that the 
' God Vishnu had heen sent back to his original shrine 
— the sea.'^ This would mean not only the removal 
but the throwing of the image into the sea. In another, 
there is a reference to Kulottunga's having rooted out 
the minor gods from the great shrine. This must 
have taken place in the reign of Kulottunga II 
{circa 1123 to 1146). That the Vaishriavas were enabled 
to enshrine the god at Tirupati shows the limitation 
of the Chola authority at the time, or their indiffer- 
ence to the fact, provided the obnoxious god had been 
removed from the hallowed presence of their ' Holy of 
Holies ', a place full of the most narrow-minded of the 
Saivas. That the Vishnu shrine was previously in the 
temple at Chidambaram is borne out by a reference 
in the works of Manikka Vasagar {Tiruchchirrambalak- 
kovai, 86). There is absolutely no reason to doubt the 
authority of these works about this particular, and 
this gives us the ultimate limit of Eamanuja's active 
life. According to the traditional account, Eamanuja 
lived for 120 years from A. d. 1017 to 1137. Some 
object to this length, and regard it as a fabrication 
just to give the reformer the Mahadasa as it is called. 
It is a matter of very small consequence to us whether 
he lived the 120 years or not. What is more important 
for our purposes is that his was a long and active life, 
and covered three reigns of the Cholas : Kulottunga I 
(a.d. 1070 to 1118), Vikramachola (a.d. 1118 to 1135), 
Kulottunga II (a. d. 1123 to 1146). Eamanuja's active 
life may, therefore, be safely referred to the last quar- 
ter of the eleventh and the first half of the twelfth 
century a.d. 

1 Sen Tamil, vol. Ill, part viii, pp. 301-2. 



CHAPTER VIII 

THE MAKING OF MYSORE 

Mysore, the modern State, is a product of the nine- 
teenth century. The country actually included in the 
term got united under one ruler, only under the vigorous 
rule of the Musalman usurper, Haidar 'Ali. Through 
much of its history before, the State was parcelled out 
into a number of States of varying extent and im- 
portance. It will, therefore, be profitable to inquire 
whether, at any time before the last quarter of the 
■ eighteenth century, the whole State was brought under 
one rule. 

Adjusting our time-telescope, if we look through it, as 
far as we can see at all, into the dim vistas of the early 
centuries of the Christian era, we are able to see but 
little. The sources of information available are the 
most meagre of hints from early Tamil literature. We 
have references leading to the location in Mysore terri- 
tory of some petty chieftains, among whom may be 
mentioned one whom the Tamilians call ' Erumaiyuran ' 
(the chief of the Buffalo country) among the seven petty 
chiefs. Passing from this time, we come unto the 
period of the Gangas, a race of rulers whose domain in 
the south of Mysore embraced the southern portions of 
the modern Ashtagram and Nandidrug divisions. This 
dynasty was at times powerful enough to make its influ- 
ence felt in South Indian politics, but at no time of its 
history did it make good its claim to having passed 
beyond the lead of another power, generally the sover- 
eigns of the Dekhan. Before passing on further, it will 



THE ANDHHAS OF THE DEKHAN 223 

be well to look back upon the disposition of the Powers 
north and south in order to better understand the role 
that Mysore played in the history of South India. 

To begin again at the beginning of history so far as is 
known at present, we find that India throughout histori- 
cal times is divisible for purposes of history into three 
geographical parts: Hindustan, the Dekhan and the 
Farther South. When the Andhra successors of the 
Mauryan dynasty were overthrown, a dynasty of rulers, 
the Andhrabhrityas of the Puranas, fastened themselves 
upon the Dekhan. It is this dynasty (100 b.c.-a.d. 300) 
that, from the second line of defence of peninsular India, 
withstood successfully and beat back the incursions of 
the foreigners — the Scythians of Central Asia, who had 
established themselves in the north-west of India. The 
territories of these Siltavahanas (vulgo Salivahana), or 
Andhrabhrityas, embraced the whole of the Dekhan ex- 
tending from coast to coast. They had to maintain 
two capitals, one in the south-east and another in 
the north-west, and occasionally two rulers, the father 
and son, or brother and brother, holding each his Court. 
This division of authority betrays the need for pro- 
tection against two powerful neighbours, always on the 
alert to take advantage of any opportunity that might 
offer itself for cutting off' a slice of territory. The 
north-west capital was at Paitan (Plithana of the 
■Greeks) on the upper waters of the Godavery, and 
the south-east one at Dhanakataka (Dharnikrit) in the 
Guntur taluq, the Amaravati of Buddhist fame. This 
must have been the period when the three crowned 
rulers of the Farther South laid claim to having de- 
feated 'the Aryan Army', and to having planted their 
respective, emblemson the Himalayas (which may be an 
eastern figure of speech for extensive conquests in the 
northern Dekhan). There is a hiatus now and we lose 
the thread. The Andhrabhritya Power breaks up, per- 
haps because of the simultaneous attacks of the Guzerat 



224 ANCIENT INDIA 

and Malva Kshetrapas, after about three centuries of 
existence, and then other Powers are forming. The 
Guptas assume imperial responsibilities, and from the 
central Indian bastion beat back the Kshetrapas on the 
one side and the Hunas on the other, thus giving time 
to the Dekhan States to settle down to the normal 
condition from the amorphous state to which they had 
been reduced after the fall of the Satavahanas. The Pal- 
lavas are erecting themselves in the north of the Tamil 
country, with their head-quarters moving south till they 
reach the ancient Ghola town of Kanchi, the head-quar- 
ters of the Tondaman Rajas. Before this, we hear of 
them at Amaravati, Palakka and other places further 
north. Perhaps these Pallavas were feudatory wardens 
of the marches of the Satavahanas in the south, and 
when the latter Power broke up the Pallavas made them- 
selves, as was often the case, paramount. When, there- 
fore, we come to the period of Samudragupta {circa 
A. D. 400) the great Gupta Emperor of the north, we 
find Vishnugopa of Kanchi, already an important ruler, 
whose dominion lay beyond the sphere of influence of 
the Gupta emperor. Simultaneously with this Power 
rises that of the Chalukyas of Vatapi (Badami in the 
Bijapur taluq). These were, or must have been again, 
the wardens of the marches in the south-west under 
the Andhrabhrityas. So that when Yuwan Chwang 
(Hiuen Thsang) travelled through the country in a.d. 
640, we find India marked out into three clearly defined 
political divisions. Siladitya or Harshavardhana of 
Kanouj was, in succession to the Guptas, ruling over 
Hindustan to the frontiers of Assam; Pulikesin II of 
the Maharashtra at Badami, with his younger brother 
Kubja Vishnuvardhana at Eajamahendri (Jananatha- 
pura) ; and Narasimhavarman Pallava or Mahamalla at 
Kanchi. This division continues under all the vicis- 
situdes of families and dynasties till the overthrow of 
Vijayanagar. The Chalukyas were succeeded by the 



POSITION OF POWERS A. D. 1000 225 

Bashtrakutas of Manyakheta (Malkhed in the Nizam's 
Dominions) and by the later Chalukyas of Kalyani 
(near Bidar) ; while the country north of the Vindhyas 
had passed on to the Griirjaras and then to the Eajaput 
dynasties. The Pallavas had been succeeded by the 
Cholas, so that about A. D. 1000 the following were the 
positions of the Powers, drawing in their breath for a 
grand struggle for supremacy which, with varying suc- 
cess, had been going on all the time. 

The western Chalukyas of Kalyani were ruling over 
Eattappadi seven and a half lac country (the Bombay 
Presidency south of the Vindhyas), and more than 
half of the Nizam's dominions with portions of the 
Central Provinces. Their cousins of the east at Raja- 
mahendri held sway over the Madras Presidency as 
far as Nellore, and were already getting under the 
influence of the powerful Chola Eajaraja. These two 
occupy the Dekhan. Houth of the Krishna in its lower 
course and the Tungabhadra from its confluence to 
its source was the territory either directly under the 
Chola, or just falling into his power. It will be seen 
at once that Mysore occupies a convenient angk be- 
tween the two Powers, and this position proved of 
advantage sometimes. 

Early in the century ending A. d. 1000 the Gangas 
were playing an important part under their rulers, 
Perumanadi Butuga and Marasimha. The Cholas, 
having already conquered the Pallava territories and 
the Kongu country, were advancing upon the Gangas, 
who were feudatory to Krishna III of the Eashtrakutas 
and his successors. About the middle of the century 
the Ganga on behalf of his suzerain defeated the 
Chola ruler Eajaditya at Takknlam. This set back 
the tide of Chola aggression for a while ; but his more 
indomitable successors, Eajaraja and his son, effected 
the conquest of Gangavadi. Before this event hap- 
pened, and while the Eashtrakiitas were busy fighting 
15 



226 ANCIENT INDIA 

against the later Chalukyas in a vain attempt at hold- 
ing out for a while longer, the Gangas absorbed the 
Nolambavadi 32,000, the modern Tumkur and Chital- 
drug districts, under their ruler Marasimha II. The 
Eashtrakutas were overthrown in A. d. 972, and the 
Chalukyas had to establish themselves in their stead, 
when the southern Chola took his opportunity to push 
his arms northwards. By A. D. 1000 the Chola had 
gained a footing in Mysore, and the Gangavadi had 
been made Chola. Since this conquest Mysore had 
become the battle ground of the contending nations, 
the Kannada Chalukyas and the Tamil Cholas. The 
wars were long and tiresome and the results changing 
and doubtful. At one time we hear of the Cholas 
being beaten back to the Palar ; again they press back 
the enemy. In A. d. 1052, an epoch-making battle was 
fought at Koppam on the Perar (Tungabhadra) . The 
elder Chola brother Rajadhiraja loses his head ; but 
his younger brother Eajendra retrieves the honour of 
the Cholas and victory rests with them. Ahavamalla 
Somesvara of the Chalukyas has to content himself 
with the Tungabhadra for the frontier. With the 
death of these mighty rulers, the affairs of their 
empires get into confusion and the opportunity for 
Mysore arrives. Here begins, then, the carving out of 
a kingdom of Mysore and the carvers were skilful 
artists indeed. Ahavamalla. died leaving behind a 
number of sons.. The eldest son Somesvara succeeded, 
as was natural, but the second Vikramaditya found 
it convenient to rebel, after having carefully gauged 
the temper of the Mahamandalesvaras (or viceroys of 
provinces). Vikramaditya, the hero of Bilhana's Vikra- 
mankadeva Charitam, started on a progress through 
his brother's dominions, under the pretext of going to 
stop the advance of the then Chola ruler Virarajendra, 
a brother of the two who distinguished themselves in, the 
battle of Koppam, and he himself was victor over the 



FIEST POUNDER OF MYSORE KINGDOM 227 

Kuntalas (western Chalukyas) at Kiidal Sangamam. 
Somehow or other, these two enemies enter into an 
agreement, the terms of which are not forthcoming, 
which was sealed by the marriage of prince Chalukya 
with the daughter of the reigning Chola. This must 
have been brought about in the interests of both. 
Vikramaditya found a valuable ally for his project, 
which now definitely had formed itself in his mind, 
of overthrowing his brother SOmesvara. Virarajendra 
found that Vikrama's alliance would be of great value 
to him, as his position was threatened by his sister's 
son KulOttunga Chola, who was certainly heir to, at 
least, his paternal dominions of the Vengi country 
(eastern Chalukya dominions). After the treaty on 
the banks of the Tungabhadra, VTrarajendra marches 
into the eastern Chalukya dominions, and one of his 
inscriptions claims that he appointed Vijayaditya, the 
paternal uncle of KulOttunga, as the Chola viceroy 
of the newly conquered territories. KulOttunga Chola 
and Somesvara naturally combined against the allies, 
but the result proves favourable ultimately to Vikra- 
maditya and his father-in-law. But Virarajendra dies 
and his son is installed by Vikramaditya, only to lose 
his head along with the crown. KulOttunga instals 
himself ruler of the eastern Chalukya and the Chola 
dominions. Kulottunga's reign lasts very nearly half 
a century (a. D. 1070 to 1118), while his rival contem- 
porary comes to the throne a few years later. He 
also has as long a reign (a. d. 1076 to 1128). Among 
the ^lahamaBdalesvaras of this Vikramaditya, we see 
one name, Vishnuvardhana Hoysala, and the sequel 
will clefirly show to us that he laid the foundations 
of the kingdom of Mysore for the first time in 
history. 

In the far off recesses of the western ghats, there 
is a place called Angadi (mart) in the Mudegere taluq 
of the Kadur district. Its situation, where the road 



228 ANCIENT INDIA 

over the ghats from Mangalore meets two others 
leading to Saklespur in the south-west and Belur in 
the south-east, must have been the cause of the name. 
This place has the honour of having been the cradle of 
this dynasty of rulers of Mysore. The name Angadi 
was given to it under the rule of Vijayanagar, the earliest 
epigraphical use of this name being in an inscription 
of Achyuta Eaya. Before this time, the place bore 
the name Sasakapura, or Soseviir (rabbit town), and the 
inscriptions in the village temple call the goddess 
Vasantika Devi, the Vasantamma of modern times. 
It was here that the Hoysalas had their origin, and 
several inscriptions account for the name by an achieve- 
ment of Sala, the eponymous ancestor of the Hoysalas. 
^Once upon a time there happened to be a Jain Muni 
(ascetic) in the Vasantika temple absorbed in contem- 
plation. A tiger sprang upon the saint, who noticed 
it too late to save himself. In sheer helplessness he 
cried out : ' strike Sala ' (Poy Sala), addressing the 
humble but valiant lay-worshipper who was at the time 
before the goddess. With no more formidable weapon 
than a stick, Sala killed the tiger and got the name 
Hoysala for himself and his posterity. This, with the 
usual variation of detail, is the origin of the dynasty as 
given by the inscriptions. But one point in connexion 
with this deserves to be noticed. This legend, which 
may be based on some actual feat of one of the dynasty, 
appears in the records of the later Hoysalas only, 
while those of the earlier ones show them to have been 
quite commonplace mortals struggling out of obscurity 
in the most ordinary way. This view is borne out by 
the story recorded in one of the Mackenzie manuscripts, 
which says that an actual tiger was committing ravages 
in that part of the country. One of the ancestors of the 
Hoysalas having killed it, was voted a ' pana ' per head 
of population, which provided the sinews of war, for 
organizing a small force and forming a small State for 



HOYSALA ORIGINS ■2'29 

himself by conquering the neighbouring chiefs. (Vide 
Rice's Gazetteer, vol. i. p. 385.) 

There is a similar tradition connected with another 
Malayaman chief of some repute in Tamil literature, 
Irungovel of Arayam. He is described as the forty-ninth 
in descent from a king of Dvaraka, who appeared from 
the sacrificial fire of a Eishi. His head-quarters was 
Arayam, composed of the small and the big cities, 
which, according to Kapilar the poet, was burnt on ac- 
count of the insult an ancestor of the chief offered to an 
older poet Kalathalaiyar. This Irungovel is addressed 
by Kapilar, ' Puli Kadimal ', the slayer of the tiger ; 
and the localities would agree fairly : but there is such 
a great distance of time between the two, that it 
would perhaps be too much to filiate the one upon the 
other. 

Be this as it may, the Hoysalas were a number of 
petty hill chiefs whose domain lay along the western 
ghats. That this was actually the case, and that they 
had no higher origin, is shown by the sign manual of 
these ' Royalties', ^Nlalaparol Ganda (the man among 
the Malapas or hill-chiefs), which figures even in the 
grants of the Hoysala ' emperors of the south '. The 
earliest epigraphical mention of them is found in a 
Chola inscription of a.d. 1007. The Chola viceroy 
Apprameya claims to have killed a number of chiefs 
in the battle of Kalavflr ; the Hoysalas jNJanjiga, 
Kaliga, Xagavaramma and others falling in the battle. 
Apprameya, the lord of Kottamandala, in consequence, 
styles himself 'Death to the family of the hill-chiefs' 
(Malapa kula kala). 

The next record referring to them is dated a.d. 
1022 and shows the Hoysalas, now under Nripa- 
kama, fighting against the Tamil Kongalva chiefs 
of Coorg and of the adjoining parts of Mysore. In 
one of the records of Nripakama's time he is called 
the base (munda) Hoysala; but no reason for this is 



230 ANCIENT INDIA 

given. Another record of his shows him as help- 
ing the ruler of Banavasi (Nagar division), against his 
enemies whoever they were. Here, then, is the first 
historical Hoysala struggling out of obscurity, but 
his achievements are against chiefs of his own level. 
His resources could not have been very great, if he 
was in danger of losing his life, as he is said to 
have been, in his wars against the petty chief Ea- 
jendra Chela Prithvi Kongalva, who claims a victory 
over him at Manne in the record of A. D. 1026. 
Curiously enough an inscription (Mg. 19) of the 
seventh year of this very Kama Hoysala at Uggihalli, 
a place situated near Angadi, refers to him as ' Kama 
Hoysala called Eajamalla Perumanadi ' (Eajamalla 
Perumanadi Yenipa Kama Hoysala). This Mr. Eice 
considers a clearly Ganga title and so it is ; but he 
thinks that this could not be given to the Hoysala 
unless he were the son of a Ganga prince. Could it 
not be that he was a Ganga feudatory and bore his 
over-lord's title, just as the Kongalvas about the same 
region gave themselves Chola titles ? (e. g, Eajendra 
Chola Prithvi Kongalva). The successor of Nripa- 
kama is his son Vinayaditya; but strange to say 
the former's name is omitted in inscriptions of later 
years, which give elaborate genealogies. This omission 
was perhaps due to the agnomen ' base ' having had 
some historical basis. Whether this was so or not, 
it is Tribhuvana Hoysala Vinayaditya who brought 
the dynasty into some prominence. He had his head- 
quarters at Sasakapura, but his successor, his grandson 
Bellala, rules from Belur as his capital. Vinayaditya's 
time is coeval with the death grapple between the 
Cholas and the Chalukyas. Among the Mahamandales- 
varSs of Somesvara Ahavamalla, the name Vinayaditya 
is associated with the Gangavadi 96000 ; but this 
very province was divided by the Cholas into three 
governorship?, under a viceroy at Talakad, Mudikonda 



RETROSPECT 231 

Cholamandalam, Vikrama Cholamandalam and Nik- 
harili Cholamandalam running from west to north- 
east along southern Mysore. Thas it is clear that 
the Cholas were in actual possession of the territory, 
while the Chalukya asserted his right to the same by 
the appointment of a viceroy, with head-quarters far 
beyond the province itself. It is from this struggle 
that the Hoysalas emerge more important than ever 
before, but what part the Hoysala actually played is 
not clear from the inscriptions, though there is no 
room for doubt that they rendered yeoman's service 
to their liege lords, the Chalukyas. 

To go back to general South Indian history for a 
while, Rajendra, the Gangaikonda Chola, died in 
A. D. lOi'I, and was succeeded by his son Eajadhi- 
raja (a. d. 1018 to 1052) already associated with him 
from A. D. 1018. Natural and undisputed though the 
succession was, there was a general attempt, in the 
frontier provinces, to throw off the yoke so recently 
imposed upon them. Rajadhiraja had to strike first 
at Ceylon, then at Travancore and again at Mysore, 
in order to bring these new provinces back into 
allegiance. This he did with great success, ably 
seconded as he was by his younger brother Eajen- 
dra. About the middle of his reign, the Chalukya 
dominions passed on to Ahavamalla Somesvara (a. d. 
1044 to 1068). Rajadhiraja's inscriptions claim several 
victories for him in the Mysore country and the 
claim seems to be based on fact. At last the time 
had come for a decisive battle to settle once for all, 
who was to be the master of the province under 
dispute. At Koppam on the Perar (Tungabhadra) 
the battle was fought in A. d. 1052. Rajadhiraja 
was defeated and fell fighting. His younger brother 
Rajendra came up with reinforcements, and, having 
retrieved the honour of the Cholas and the fortunes 
of the day, was then crowned on the field of battle. 



232 ANCIBNT INDIA 

One of Ahavamalla's inscriptions states that the Chola 
lost his head, having sacrilegiously burnt the Jain 
temples, which the Perumanadi (a Ganga chief or 
perhaps the Chalukya) had built in the Beluvola 
300, situated in the Bellary district. In the course 
of the series of wars, which culminated in the epoch- 
making battle of Koppam, the Hoysala must have had 
opportunities of making himself more powerful than 
his father ; nay, even of creating himself one of those 
wardens of the marches, who have at all times proved 
king-makers. Vinayaditya is credited by the inscrip- 
tions of his successors with having ruled over the 
country bounded by Konkana, Alvakheda, Bayalunadu, 
Talakad, and Bavimale. This would mean the country 
enclosed by the Kanaras, Talakad on the Cauvery in 
the south of Mysore, and the regions about the river 
Krishna or Tuogabhadra. This must be_the extent of 
territory under his successor Vishnuvardhana, which 
has been given to him, as Dr. Fleet thinks. All through 
his time and almost to the end of the century, he is 
associated with his son Ereyanga (the red-bodied), as 
Yuva Eaja or heir apparent. 

Before taking up the successor of Vinayaditya in the 
Hoysala lineage, it is necessary again to consider their 
surroundings. In A. D. 1062 or 1063 Eajendra Chola, 
the second of the name, died and was succeeded by his 
younger brother Virarajendra, while at the same time 
Eajaraja the eastern Chalukya also died. His son, 
Eajendra Chola, better known by his later title Kulot- 
tunga Chola, succeeded though not at Eajamahendri. 
This latter prince was the son of Ammangadevi, sister 
of the three Chola emperors ending with Virarajendra 
and daughter of the Gangaikonda Chola. Kulottunga 
appears to have aspired to the throne of the Cholas, 
and this fact introduced a disturbing element in what 
would otherwise have been a quiet succession. While 
Virarajendra was doing all he could to make his position 



THE TWO EMPEKOKS 233 

secure, Ahavamalla Somesvara of the westerii Chalukyas 
died in a. d. 1069 and was succeeded by his eldest son 
Somesvara (II) Bhuvanaikamalla. Unfortunately for the 
history of South India, he had a talented brother Vikra- 
maditya. This latter was waiting for an opportunity 
to overthrow his elder brother and occupy the throne 
himself. Yikramaditya appears to have had a better 
hold upon the affections of the Mahamandalesvaras 
than Somesvara. This posture of affairs led to much 
diplomatic activity and military demonstration, which 
culminated in the alliance between Prince Vikiauiaditya 
and the emperor Yirarajendra, after the latter had 
defeated the Kannada armies in the battles of Kudal 
Sangaman, at the junction of the Tungabhadra and the 
Krishna. This treaty was sealed by the marriage of 
the designing prince with the daughter of the Chola. 
Somesvara appears so far to have relied entirely upon 
his younger brother's loyalty, and all the campaigns 
against the indomitable Cholas were conducted by 
him. When Somesvara discovered later on the designs 
of his brother and the success the latter had ob- 
tained with the Chola, he entered as a counter-move 
into a treaty with Kulottunga, who was now ruling, 
at least, the southern part of his ancestral dominions 
(i. e. the districts round Madras), Yirarajendra proved 
too strong even for this combination. He invaded the 
eastern Chalukya dominions and appointed Kulot- 
tunga's uncle A'ijayaditya. viceroy of the eastern 
Chalukya territories. Yirarajendra died soon after in 
A.D. 1070. Yikramaditya installed bis brother-in-law 
Adhirajaraja ; but Kulottunga found his opportunity 
now and occupied the Chola throne, Adhirajaraja falling 
a victim to this usurpation. Hemmed in by this 
powerful Chola, the Chalukya usurper. Yikramaditya, 
had to bide his time and completed (a.d, 1070) his 
project of overthrowing his brother and making himself 
emperor. 



234 ANCIENT INDIA 

During all these transactions, both diplomatic and 
warlike, between the Cholas and the Chalukyas, the 
Mahamandalesvaras of Gangavadi and Nolambavadi 
must have had their share. While, on the one hand, 
the inscriptions of Virarajendra claim for him the credit 
of having granted to Vikramaditya, the ' Youvvarajya ' 
or the position of heir apparent, Hoysala inscriptions of 
about A.D. 1100 claim for Breyanga and his father-in- 
law, the Nolamba Chief's brother, the credit of having 
rendered valuable service in the same cause. Ere- 
yanga caused Thribhuvanamalla's (Vikramaditya's) elder 
brother to sheathe his sword, while his father-in-law, 
Irukkapala, defeated Bhuvanaikamalla and gave the 
kingdom to Vikramaditya, whose right hand Ereyanga 
is described to have been. This makes it clear that, 
in spite of Bilhana's Vikramankadeva Charitam, Vikra- 
maditya was helped in his machinations against his 
brother by the Mysore chiefs. While these chiefs 
proved his strength then, they were later on to contri- 
bute mightily also to the overthrow of his empire. 
Ereyanga was ruling the Gangavadi 96,000, that is 
the little of it that was not under the Cholas. As 
a trusty lieutenant of the Chalukya, he took part in 
the distant expeditions to the north ; for Ereyanga 
lays claim to a victory at Dhara in Malva, the king- 
dom of the Pramaras. He must have died before his 
father, leaving behind three sons by his wife Echaladevi 
who might, or might not, have been the Mahadevi, the 
daughter of the Nolamba above referred to. 

Vinayaditya was succeeded by his eldest grandson 
Bellala I in a.d. 1101. This ruler had his capital 
at Belur with which the Hoysalas were associated, 
though Dvarasamudra was an alternative capital. His 
province is given the same boundaries as that of his 
grandfather, and he is said to have paid a visit to 
Sosevur. In A. D. 1103 he made a regrant of Sinda- 
gere to Mariane Dhandanayaka as the wages for the 



BITTI DEVA 235 

'wet nursing' of his three daughters, whom Bellala 
married in the same pavilion at Belur. In a.d. 1104, 
he led an expedition against the Ghangalvas, whose 
domain lay in the Hole Narasipur taluq. In the same 
year, with his younger brother Vishnu, he conducted 
a successful expedition into the neighbouring Pandya 
dominions of Nolambavadi, and had to repulse an 
invader Jagaddeva, probably the Santara prince of 
Humcha in Nagar taluq, who had penetrated as far as 
Dvarasamudra (Halebid^. It is a significant fact that 
an inscription of Bellala's time is dated in Chalukya 
Vikramakala (Kp. 55). 

Bellala I was succeeded by his younger brother 
Bitti Deva, better known by his later title A'ishnu- 
vardhana. He is the real founder of Hoysala greatness, 
and many even of the titles of his successors and 
predecessors (in inscriptions) are borrowed from his. 
The first mention of his name is found in a record of 
A. D. 1100 associated with his brother Bellala. The 
records of the latter do not go further than the year 
A. T>. 1106, at which date or soon after Bitti Deva must 
have ascended the throne. But all inscriptions agree 
in ascribing his real exploits to, at least, ten years 
later. Hence it is possible that Bellala continued to 
rule even after a. d. 1106. Despite all the claims put 
forward by his predecessors, he has to undertake the 
conquests on the one side of Nolambavadi and on 
the other of Gangavadi, which two conquests con- 
stitute his claims to the title of one of the greatest 
of Yikramaditya's Mahamandalesvaras. The elaborate 
accounts of the conquest of Gangavadi, and the great 
credit claimed for it show the firmness of the hold 
the Cholas had upon the country. The conquest is 
claimed separately by a number of Vishnuvardhana's 
generals among whom prominence must be given to 
Gangaraja a dispossessed scion of the Ganga dynasty. 
Other generals who distinguished themselves in the 



236 ANCIENT INDIA 

taking of Talakad were Ketayya Dandanayaka and 
Punisa. After this conquest, Bitti Deva assumes the 
titles Vira Ganga and Talakadugonda. Kulottunga 
Chela seems to have acquiesced in the conquest, after 
his generals Adiyama, Damodara and Narasimhavarma 
were overthrown ; for we see Vishnuvardhana making 
a progress through Gangavadi, in the course of which, 
at Vijayadityamangala (the modern Betmangala), his 
niece, the daughter of his younger brothei' Udayaditya, 
died. About the same time, or soon after, he invaded 
Nolambavadi, and at Dumme on the border between 
Shimoga and Chitaldroog won a victory over the 
Pandya ruler of the country, who had his capital 
at Uchchaagidoorga. This conquest was only tempo- 
rary, and his grandson had to do it over again. 

The year a.d. 1117 marks an epoch in the advance 
of the Hoysala power. Vishnuvardhana by this year 
had become master of Gangavadi 96,000 and had made 
himself felt in Nolambavadi. I now give the history 
of his conquests, as they are recorded in many of his 
inscriptions, chiefly the one at Belur, which was in- 
scribed on the occasion of the dedication of the temple, 
after he had adopted the teachings of Eamanuja, the 
Vaishnava reformer, and assumed the Vaishnava title 
of Vishnuvardhana. 'First taking into his arms the 
fortune of the Poysala kingdom, which he had in- 
herited, he brought all points of the compass under 
his command, and was capturing Talakad, became the 
first ruler to the Ganga kingdom. . . . He made the 
earth tremble with the tramp of his Kamboja horse, 
was lord of Gandagiri, split the great rock Pandya, 
burst the hearts of the Tulu kings, destroyed the 
army of Jagaddeva, devoured the fierce elephant 
Somesvara, displayed his valour before Manikyadevi of 
the Chakrakuta throne, brought down the pride of 
Adiyama, overthrew the tree Narasimha Varma, split 
the skull of king Kala, destroyed the serpent Cheugiri, 



CONQUESTS OF VISHNUVABDHANA 237 

broke down the plantain stems the spears of the 
Irungolas, shook the mountain Cheugiri Perumala, 
set up Patti Perumala, made Talakad his own, took 
the Kongu country, protected Xolambavadi, expanded 
Nilaparvata, extended Kolalapura, uprooted Kovatiir, 
shook Tere^yilr, crossed over Valliir, unchained Nang- 
alipura, pulled up the door of the Ghats, and made 
Kanchipura tremble.' The boundaries of his kingdom 
at the time were — east, the lower ghat of Xangali ; 
south, Kongu, Cheram and Anamalai ; west, Barakanur 
and other ghats of the Konkana ; north, Savimale. 

This list of conquests has to be carefully considered 
in order to ascertain what measure of truth there is in it, 
and how much of it has to be put down to the panegyrist. 
Bitti Deva succeeded to his ancestral dominions, which 
clearly did not include Gangavadi, the claims to the 
province of his father and grandfather notwithstand- 
ing. His capture of Talakad is the crucial achieve- 
ment which entitles him to the rule of Gangavadi 
96,000. This achievement takes away the province 
from the Tamilians once for all, and Eajendra Kulot- 
tunga evidently acquiesced in the conquest. Ganda- 
giri has not yet been identified. He is said to iiave 
split the rock Pandya. This perhaps means no more 
than the Pandya defeat at Dumme (on the frontier 
between Shimoga and Chitaldroog districts). The 
achievement against Jagaddeva may be the same as 
that of his brother Bellala against the Santara prince 
of Humcha (Patti Pombuchapura). The achievement 
against Somesvara is put down against the Chalukya 
king by Mr. Eice. The ChaUikya king at the time 
was Vikramaditya, who had a son Somesvara who may 
have acted in the name of his father, as was often 
the case, as the governor of Banavase, a province, 
which was regarded of sufficient importance to require 
a prince of the blood often for its viceroy. No infor- 
mation is forthcoming about the Manikyadevi of the 



238 ANCIENT INDIA 

Chakrakiita throne. Adiyama and Narasimha Yarma 
were Chola feudatories in the south of Mysore. ]^ala 
was a ruler of the Nllagiris ; Chengiri might have 
been Tiruchengode in the Salem district (rather than 
Gingee as Mr. Eice surmises), formerly part of the 
Kongu kingdom. Irungola was a Tamil chief of 
Nidugal in the Pavagada taluq, and Tereyur was again 
a place of some consequence in the north-east of 
Tumkur. Nangali is the frontier town between Mysore 
and North Arcot in the Mulbagal taluq. Thus this 
narration would entitle Bitti Deva to the conquest of 
southern and south-eastern Mysore. That he effected 
the conquest of Gangavadi finally is borne out by 
the specific mention of his rule over the two capitals, 
Talakad and Kolar. In a.d. 1118, he is said to have 
been in residence at Talakad. This completes his 
conquests. The boundaries given to his dominions in 
the north appear to be more questionable. Savimale, 
somewhere in the upper reaches of the Krishna, is 
too near his liege lord's head-quarters, and he had 
to effect the conquests of other chiefs before he could 
extend his dominions so far. This no doubt he did, 
but not as yet. 

The year 1121 finds him again at his head-quarters 
at Dvarasamudra, and it was in this year that a certain 
Ketamalla, probably a merchant, built a temple, dedi- 
cated to Siva under the name Vishnuvardhana-Hoyasa- 
lesvara, the great temple at Halebid. A record at Viru- 
pakshapura in the Channarayapatna taluq of a.d. 1121 
shows that ' Maleparol Ganda-Srimat Tribhuvanamalla, 
Talakad-Kongu-Nangali-Nolambavadi, Uchchangi-Bana- 
vase-Hanungalam Gonda Bhujabala Yira Ganga Hoysala 
Deva ' made a grant with his Patta Mahadgvi (queen- 
consort) and the Pancha Pradhanas (five ministers) to 
the god Jayangondesvara. These titles of Bitti Deva 
would show clearly his object, but several of these 
were mere attempts at acquisition as yet. The five 



vishntjvabdhana's tolbbancb 239 

ministers ought to have been, although Mr. Eice passes 
over them vs^ith a ' v^hoever they were', the heir-apparent, 
the commander-in-chief, the priest, the senior Sandhi 
Vigrahim (minister for foreign affairs) and the chief 
secretary. Santala Devi was the queen-consort. It 
is remarkable that with these, most of whom were 
Jains, the king made a grant for a Siva temple 
Jayangondesvara, the name of which indicates that 
it was of Chola foundation, Jayamkonda having been 
one of the titles of Eajadhiraja. 

In A.D. 1123, he is again on the banks of the Kavery, 
while his northern boundary is described as the Perddore 
or Krishna. Here he hears of the death of his younger 
brother Udayaditya and makes a grant. It was in the 
same year that he made a grant of the village Grama 
to the east of Hassan to his JSiina wife who divided 
it among 220 Brahmins. It is even now one of the 
most flourishing of Brahmin villages. The same year 
Santala Devi built the Gandhavarana Basti in Sravana 
Belugoal. In a.d. 1125, he is again at Talakad and 
makes a grant to the great Jain teacher and controver- 
sialist Sri Pala, who claimed the titles ' Shad Tarka 
Shanmukha ', ' Vadhiba Simha' and ' Tarkika Chakra- 
varti'. The king is at Yadhavapura ^ Melukote) in 
A.D. 1128, and from his royal residence there he 
makes a grant to Marbala irtha, apparently a part 
of the Saiva shrine on the Chamundi hill. By this 
time the emperor Vikramaditya had died and was suc- 
ceeded by his son Somesvara Bhulokamalla. Kulot- 
tunga Chola had died a few years earlier, but was 
succeeded by his son Vikrama Chola. The Hoysala 
aggression southwards appears to have been checked so 
carefully, that Vishnuvardhana's attention was entirely 
devoted to conquest in the north. In a record of 
A.D. 1129, the boundaries of the Hoysala territories 
are thus defined— east, Nangali ghat ; south, Kongu, 
Cheram and Anamale ; west, Barakanur ghat (north- 



240 ANCIENT INDIA 

west of Shimoga) ; and north, Savimale. He is said 
to have terrified Somesvara. Long before this, Vishnu- 
vardhana's activity, after the conquest of Gangavadi 
and the attack on Nolanibavadi, seems to have attract- 
ed the attention of the emperor Vikramaditya. He, 
therefore, sent a number of Mahamandalesvaras, among 
whom figure the Kadambas of Goa. But the most 
trusted chiefs appear to have been of the Sinda 
chieftains of Yelburga, one of whom, Achugi H, 
claimed like Ereyanga to have rendered great services to 
Vikramaditya in his usurpation. Though Bitti Deva's 
general Ganga Raja claims to have defeated these loyal- 
ists, the fact that the former still recognized, even 
nominally, the liege lordship of the emperor, would 
warrant the conclusion that he received a check in 
his onward career towards independence. On Vikra- 
maditya' s death, however, he resumes his activity 
in the north and this is what terrified Somesvara. At 
this time he was helped by his son Kumara Bellala, 
and had a number of daughters, the eldest of whom 
was Hariyale. The fact that she was Jain would lead 
one to regard her and her brother and sisters as the 
children of Santala Devi ; but this is not a necessary 
inference, considering the religious condition of the 
Hoysalas and of these times. 

In A. D. 1130, then, we find the Hoysala power practi- 
cally supreme over Kongu, Nangali, Talakad, Gangavadi, 
(though very much less so here) Banavase, Hanungal 
and Huligere. Of these provinces and cities, except 
the two last, the rest comprise the modern Mysore 
province. Hanungal is the modern Hangal in Dharwar, 
and Puligere is Lakshmeswar about the same locality. 
But that among his enemies are still found the Kongalva 
and Chengalva petty chiefs is significant of the fact 
that he had not as yet attained to unquestioning 
obedience to his authority within the province. This 
explains why he is found constantly moving about in his 



BIRTH OF NAEASIMHA 241 

province. It is in this year that he assumes the titles 
Nolambavadi Gonda which appears on some of his coins. 

An inscription in the Siva temple at INEaddur of the 
year A. r. 1131 (Saka 1053) presents Bitti Deva thus: 
' The Mahamandalesvara the capturer of Talakad, Kongu, 
Xangali, Banavase, Uchchangi, the strong armed Vira 
Ganga, Vishnuvardhana Hoj-sala Deva, was ruling the 
kingdom of the world, in his residence in the royal city 
of Dvarasamudra, punishing the evil and protecting the 
good in Gangavadi 96,000, the Nolambavadi 32,000, the 
Banavase 12,000, and the Hanungal 500.' The record 
mentions a grant made by the king to Swayambhu 
Vaijyanatha of the Sivapura of Maddur alias Narasimha 
Chaturvedimangalam. What is most interesting in this 
record is, that Pillayanda claimed certain lands, as 
having been granted by the Ganga king Sivam?.ra and 
showed a copper plate grant. His claim was allowed 
after the plates had been examined. 

It was in this year that his queen-consort Santala 
Devi died. A cotiple of years later another great cham- 
pion of the Jainas died, and one who had contributed 
largely to the greatness of his master. This was Ganga 
Kaja, the capturer of Talakad and the restorer of the 
Jain temples destroyed by the Cholas. By this latter 
act he is said to have made Mysore shine like Kopana 
(Koppal in the Nizam's Dominions). On his death 
Ganga Raja's son Boppa built a Jlnalaya in memory 
of his father at Halebid, called Drohagharatta Jlnalaya. 
Having it consecrated by Nayakirti, the sacred food 
was sent to the king who was then at Bankapura, the 
northern frontier of the Hoysala kingdom. This 
reached Vishnuvardhana just as he was returning vic- 
torious from an expedition against Masana, and while 
his queen Lakshmi Devi had just borne him a son and 
heir. The Jain priests were, therefore, received with 
favour, and the king pleased with the auspicious arrival 
of the priests named his son Vijaya Narasimha, and 
16 



242 ANCIENT INDIA 

wished that the Jina in the new temple should be called 
Vijaya Parsvanatha. It is this Jain Basadi that is still 
an object of sight to travellers. It is situated a couple 
of furlongs from the great Hoysalesvara temple. From 
this period onward, Vishnuvardhana was chiefly engag- 
ed in the north against the chiefs on the frontier for 
the acquisition of Banavase and Nolambavadi for him- 
self; for in spite of the Mysore records the inscriptions of 
Somesvara III show a series of Mandalesvaras in charge 
of Banavase, and a certain Vira Pandya is said to have 
been ruling from Uchchangidurga over the Nolambavadi 
32,000. It is only in the year A. D. 1137 that Vishnu- 
vardhana is shown by those records to be the Mahaman- 
dalesvara in charge of Gangavadi, Nolambavadi, and 
Banavase (i. e. the modern State of Mysore). All the 
interim must have been a period of struggle. Ever 
since he was beaten back by the loyal Sinda chief- 
tain, Achugi II, on behalf of Vikramaditya, he must 
have acquiesced in the merely subordinate role of the 
Mahamandalesvara of Gangavadi, which may actually 
have been more than the province itself. At no time, 
however, could he have extended his boundaries 
permanently further north than Bankapur in Dharwar, 
for he was hemmed in by the powerful and loyal 
Sindas on the east and the Kadambas on the west. 
Thus Krishnaveni for the northern boundary of 
Vishnuvardhana must have been about as real as 
Eameswaram in the south. This year a.d. 1137, or the 
year after, marks another stage in the advance of the 
Hoysala power. Here is a record of the year 1137, 
which sets down his conquests, while another Jain 
record of the same date recognizes clearly the sub- 
ordinate position of "Vishnuvardhana as a feudatory, 
however powerful he be, of Somesvara III, Bhiiloka- 
malla. The first part of the record is gone and the 
meaning of the first few sentences is not clear. It 
reads : ' On his deserting his queens, forsaking his king- 



vishnxjvaedhana's conquests 243 

dom, and dying in the country near Clieiigiri, he took 
possession of the company of Narasinga's wives, put 
down Angara, trampled on Singahka and, turning in the 
direction of the Ganges, slew the kings of the northern 
countries — the son of King Ereyanga. Having succeeded 
in this expedition to the north, his elephant trampled 
down the army of the Pandya king, ashamed of so 
easy a victory, having defeated Chola and Gaula in 
terrible great wars. And pursuing Pandya he seized 
Nolambavadi, capturing Uchchangi in a moment, and 
tossing it up as if playing at ball — Kanchi-Gonda. 
Vikrama-Ganga. After that, marching to the Telinga 
country, he captured Indra . . . together with his 
elephants, the wealth gained by his victories and the 
inherited wealth of his family. After that, destroying- 
root and branch Masana, who was a torment to the 
country, he wrote down the Banavase 12,000 in his 
Kaditha (account-book). "When the King Vishnu was 
playing as if at tirikal, a kind of pitch and toss, with 
the great Sahya mountains, Nllagiri and . . of what 
account are the others ; and what wonder is it that 
he took Panungal in half a second with the flip of his 
finger . . killing only with a glance . . another who 
was taking Kisukad, he pursued after Jayakesi and 
gained possession of the Palasige 12,000 and the . . . 
500. Turning and turning he entered hill-forts going 
farther and farther away as far as the iicean . . . attack- 
ing them again and again, he sought out the bravest 
in the north and slew them — Vishnuvardhana Deva. 
Whatever countries are considered famous, whatever 
hill-fotts are specially desciibed, whatever kings are 
worthy of being reckoned, he subdued and added to 
his fame throughout the world as far as the limits of 
the four oceans— the glory of the Kshatriya race, the 
brave king Vishnu. 

When that great Kshatriya, entitled to the five 
great drums, Mahamandalesvara (with numerous other 



244 ANCIENT INDIA 

titles), a Bhairava of the last delage to the Chola race, 
a royal lion to the elephant Chera, a submarine fire 
to the ocean the Pandya race, a wild tire to the sprouts 
of the creeper the fame of the Pallava, a sardula to the 
lion Narasimhavarma, his unshaken fame a lamp into 
which Kalapala and other kings fall like winged white 
ants, the twang of whose bow, putting to flight the 
Anga, Vanga, Kalinga and Simhala Kings, Kanchipura, 
resounding with his orders as with the sharp sounds 
of drums (named), the wives of hostile kings employed 
in his house as female servants, squeezing in his 
hands the southern Madhurapura, having destroyed 
Jananathapura by his General, Kanchi-Gonda-Vikrama- 
jGanga, Vira Vishnu-vardhana Deva, protecting under 
his sole umbrella the Gangavadi 96,000, Nolambavadi 
-32,000, and Banavase 12,000, was ruling the Kingdom 
dn peace and wisdom.' 

This long recital of his deeds shows where Vishnuvard- 
hana had to be most active, and what a long struggle 
it must have cost him before he could have uaited the 
three separate provinces into one united whole. The 
first portion of this quotation appears quite historical, 
while by the time the composer of the record reached 
the second portion he seems to have worked himself up 
to a high pitch of hyperbole. His activities were all 
required in the north against the more powerful Maha- 
mandalesvaras Jayakesi II, the Kadamba ruler of 
Goa and Hangal, against the Nolambas of Uchchangi, 
as Vira Pandya is said to be ruling from the same 
hill-fort his hereditary province of Nolambavadi thirty- 
two thousand in a.d. 1139, and the Sinda chieftains 
of Yelburga, particularly Achugi II. Thus it would 
appear impossible that he ever reached, much less 
conquered, either Kanchi, or Madhura, or Jananathapura 
(Eajamahendri not Mahabalipuram, or Malingi near 
Talakad). The conquests of Anga, Vanga, and Kalinga 
are much more remote from the actual. By the year 



UNITED MYSORE 245 

1137, then, Vishnuvardhana had so far succeeded in 
uniting, not beyond dispute as yet, though recognized 
at head-quarters, the whole of the modern Mysore State 
under his rule. But he did not feel his position sure 
enough to assume the royal dignity. The remaining 
six or seven years of his life he devotes himself to 
securing himself in the northern frontier, where things 
were moving fast towards disruption. 

In the year a.d. 1137 Vishnuvardhana's capitals 
were respectively Talakad in the south, and Bankapur 
in Dharwar in the north — two fortified places on 
either frontier against the two emperors, one on either 
side. This same year he performed the royal act of 
tulapurusha, i.e. he weighed himself against gold and 
distributed it among Brahmins and other deserving 
recipients of gifts of charity. About the end of the 
year 1138, he crossed the Tungabhadra and laid siege 
to Hangal, notwithstanding so many previous statements 
as to the conquest of it. This and the fight next year 
at Dvarasamudra with Jagaddeva indicates that his 
advance in the north was not acquiesced in. 

It must be remembered here that in the year 1138 
Somesvara Bhulokamalla died, and was succeeded by 
Jagadekamalla in the Chalukya empire. Vishnuvar- 
dhana must have repeated his attempt to profit by 
a succession. This time again he was foiled Ijy the 
loyal Mahamandalesvaras, helped by the Santara prince 
Jagaddeva. In 1140 Bitti Deva is again at Bankapura 
ruling the following provinces : Gangavadi 9G,000, 
Banavase 12,000, Santhalige 1,000, Hanungal 500. 
Halasige 12,000, Mogelle 300, and the Halve 12. 
Having given away his own country to Brahmins and 
temples and ruling only the foreign countries he had 
won, he was in residence at Bankapura with the 
Krishna and the three oceans as the boundaries of 
his dominions. Here he died in the year a.d. 1141, 
having fallen short of his ambition only in not having 



246 ANCIENT INDIA 

been able to assume the titles of royalty, though he 
was in undoubted enjoyment of the substance of it. 
Vishnuvardhana was succeeded by his son Vijaya Nara- 
simha, who was born in the year 1133, and crowned at 
his birth, probably because his father lost all his other 
sons, or, at any rate, the son who was already old 
enough to help him in the great work of building up 
a kingdom. 

While through the constant endeavours, often suc- 
cessful though occasionally foiled, of Vishnuvardhana, 
Mysore was rising into a kingdom, the empire of 
which it formed an integral part for centuries was 
fast moving towards disintegration. It is, therefore, 
necessary, before taking up the tale of Narasimha's 
conquests, of his attempts at the conservation of his 
inheritance, to glance at the history of the Chalukya 
empire and the causes which led to its disintegration. 
Vikramaditya's long reign of fifty-two years was one of 
peace essentially, except for an invasion of the Chola 
dominions and tor the check he had to administer to 
the rising ambition of his Hoysala feudatory, about 
the end of his reign. Like his predecessors, the early 
Chalukya Pulikesin II and the Satvahana Gotamlputra 
Satakarni, he had often to carry on war across the 
Narbudda, but even this he does not appear to have 
had to do very often. His empire extended in diagonal 
lines from Broach to Erode and from Mangalore to 
Sitabaldi. This vast territory was parcelled out into 
a number of viceroyalties ; among the viceroys may 
be mentioned in order from the north-west — The 
Seunas or Yadavas with capitals at Sinnar (near 
Nasik) and later at Deogiri ; the Silaharas of Northern 
and Southern Konkan and of Kolhapur ; next come 
the Kndambas of Goa and Hangal ; east of these are 
the Sindas of Yelburga, the Guttas of Guttal in 
Dharwar and Eattas of Saundatti in Belgaum ; then 
come the dominions under the head-quarters, namely, 



BIJ.TALA 247 

all the Nizam's Dominions except the most easterly- 
part, the Khamamet division ; and lasily the viceroyalty 
with head-quarters at Sitabaidi. This leaves out Bane- 
vase, Nolambavadi and Gangavadi more or less under 
the Hoysalas, although to the end of Vishnuvardhana's 
life other viceroys continued to be appointed for the 
two former. This vast empire passed on to his son 
Somesvara Bhulokamalla in a. d. 1128, thanks to the 
loyal exertions of the Sinda chieftains against the 
southern viceroys. Somesvara died in 1138 and the 
empire passed again to his son, Perma Jagadekamalla, 
who ruled till a.d. 1150. In this reign comes into notice 
a young man of promise, whose father was governor of 
Tardawadi 1,000, the district round Bijapur, an alter- 
native capital of the Chalukyas. This was Bijjala. 
He was governor of the same province as his father, 
but later on he becomes sufficiently important to be 
appointed viceroy of Nolambavadi and Banavase, gov- 
erning these provinces by deputies, himself keeping at 
head-quarters, like the Saiyid brothers under the Moghul 
emperor Muhammad Shah. This change in the posi- 
tion of Bijjala is noticeable under Jagadekamalla, but 
when the latter was succeeded by his brother Taila III, 
he keeps growing in power, till in 11.56 he becomes 
virtually ruler, though Taila continues nominally emperor 
till A. D. 1163. There is only one explanation for this. 
He is seen named in grants as the commander-in-chief 
of all the forces, an officer never heard of before. 
There was probably a rising of all the more powerful 
viceroys or an anticipation of such a rising, which would 
naturally require a masterhand to deal with the situation. 
That masterhand not being found on the throne, a wire- 
puller would naturally enough come in. If Bijjala did 
this, nothing else is needed to explain his own appoint- 
ment to the provinces most under dispute. 

About this time on the eastern frontier another enter- 
prising ruler was rising on the horizon of history. Since 



248 ANCIENT INDIA 

the accession of Vikrama Chela, the eastern Chalukya 
dominions happened to be neglected somehow, and an 
enterprising chief between the two Chalukya empires had 
his opportunity. Just within the frontier is the hamlet 
of Anamkonda, the ancestral capital of Beta, the founder 
of the family of the Kakatiyas, who was to become 
famous as the Kakatiyas of Warangal, which his son 
Prola founded and whither he had shifted the capital. 
This Prola claims to have defeated Tailappa sometime 
in his reign, and it is very likely that this event 
occurred about a.d. 1155. This external shock, com- 
bined with the internal loss of hold on the Mahamanda- 
lesvaras, must have thrown Tailappa into the arms 
of Bijjala, who for the while proved the saviour. This 
saviour usurped first the power and then the position 
and paraphernalia of the empire. Bijjala, however, 
was not allowed to effect his usurpation undisputed. 
The Sindas were loyal as usual in spite of a close 
family alliance with Bijjala, and the Pandyas were 
equally so. Bijjala and his sons continued in the 
empire from ll(i3 to 1183, when a general of Bijjala, 
by name Kama Deva or Kavana, had a son Bomma or 
Brahma. This latter restored the son of Taila III 
under the imperial title of Somesvara IV in 1183, using 
for the purpose the army under his father, who appears 
to have been to the Kalachvirya ruler much what Bijjala 
himself was to Tailappa. Somesvara ruled till a. d. 
1189, and his rule was confined to the southern and 
south-western part of his dominions. A combination of 
some of his chiefs against him and his loyal feudatories 
the Sindas made him retire to the north-west frontier 
of his dominions, and nothing more was heard of him. 
In the scramble for territory that followed, not in an 
orderly Congress of Vienna but by appeal to arms, two 
Powers stood out heirs to the empire, the Yadavas of 
Deogiri and the Hoysalas of Dvarasamudra, the Kaka- 
Tyas of Warangal taking their humble share of the 



NAEASIMHA 249 

spoil, and the history of the latter will now be 
resumed. 

Narasimha, a tender boy of eight years, supported 
by the remnant of his father's veteran generals and 
ministers, succeeded to the difficult position of his 
father. He ruled from a.d. 1141 to 1173, a period 
of thirty-two years during which all his exertions were 
required to conserve the dominions bequeathed to him. 
His reign is coeval with those of Jagadekamalla and 
Taila III, and runs into a part of even the Kalachfirya 
usurper, Bijjala's reign. It has been already remarked 
that, although Vishnuvardhana's title to Banavase and 
No|ambavadi had been recognized in 1137 to 1138 under 
Sdmesvara III, other imperial officers continued to be 
appointed for the viceroyalty of each of these provinces. 
That the hold of the Hoysalas over these provinces 
was of the slightest is proved by the fact that in these 
localities the earliest Hoysala inscriptions are those 
of Narasimha's son Yira Bellala. Nolambavadi under 
two powerful brothers, Vira Pandya and Yijaya Pandya, 
after its recovery, and Banavase under a series of 
viceroys, first of the Kadamba family and then of 
others, the last of whom was Bijjala, continued their 
allegiance to the empire. Except an invasion or two 
into these provinces, Narasimha was able to do but 
little ; but in one direction his arms were victorious. 
His general Bokkimayya, or Bokana (the Garuda of 
Vishnu), brought under subjection to him the Tulu, 
the Changalva, the Kongalva, and Bayalnadu in 1155. 
In 1161, he marched upon Bankapura, which was 
occupied by the Kadambas, and defeated them. It 
was between these dates that Bijjala was carrying 
through his scheme of usurpation, and in consequence 
there was a struggle among the southern Powers. Xt 
first Narasimha seems to have had the better of 
it against the other viceroys, and then against 
Bijjala himself. It is this opposition to Bijjala on 



250 ANCIKNT INDIA 

the part of the Sindas and the Pandyas of Nolamba- 
vadi that led to the final conquest and absorption 
by Bellala of Nolambavadi and Banavase. By the 
year 1165, he had a son Kumara Bellala and con- 
tinued to rule till 1173, when he is described as 
' a royal swan sporting in the lake of the Andhra 
women, a sun to the lotus faces of the Simhala (Cey- 
lonese) women, a golden zone to the waist of the 
Karnataka women, an ornament stamped with musk 
of the Lata (Gujarati) women, the saffron paste on the 
goblets (the breasts) of the Chola women, a moon to 
the water lilies (the eyes) of Gaula women (a part of 
Bengal), the wave on the ... of the beauty of the 
Bengala women, a bee to the lotuses, the faces of the 
Malavas.' In addition to the queens Chengala Devi, 
Echala Devi (mother of Bellala) and Gujjala Devi, 
he is described as maintaining a harem of 384 
women of good birth. It is no wonder then that he 
died at the early age of forty in the year 1173 unlike 
his father and others of his family, who had been 
trained in a hardier school of discipline than the 
inner apartments of a royal palace. 

Narasimha was succeeded by his son Vira Bellala, 
whose reign was a comparatively long and vigorous 
one of forty-seven years, a.d. 1173 to 1220. Vira Bellala 
II is the actual maker of Mysore, although his grand- 
father deserves credit not only for having laid the 
foundation but also for having carried his project much 
farther than that. Circumstances, however, combined 
to put off the realization of his ideas to the time of his 
grandson, who was quite worthy of such a noble mission. 
Bijjala in the full flush of his power had created oppo- 
sition to himself in the south, which was the opportunity 
for the Hoysala. Bijjala continued to rule till 1167, when 
he abdicated in favour of his eldest son, who and his 
three brothers ruled the empire till 1183, in succession, 
when Bam ma restored the Chalukya, Somesvara IV. 



VIEA BELLALA 251 

Vira Bellala is found associated with his father's 
general Tantrapala Hemmadi in the conquest of 
the male chiefs, Kongalva, Changalva and others, who 
were brought into subjection in a.d. 1168. With the 
year 1174 tbe references to Chalukya supremacy com- 
pletely disappear, probably, because it then appeared 
to the Hoysalas that there was no chance of the 
Chalukyas regaining their power, as they well might 
have done, under the Kalachiirya Bijjala and his sons. 
This fact notwithstanding, it is remarkable that Vira 
Bellala did not assume the titles and designations of 
royalty. He even recognized the over-lordship (in 
A.D. 1178) of Sankama, the third son of Bijjala. It 
was either in this year, or a little before it, that he 
besieged and took possession of Uchchangi Droog, the 
capital of the Pandyas. He appears, however, to have 
restored Vijaya Pandya on his submission to the 
Hoysala authority. This event must have happened 
when the loyal Sindas and the Pandyas were hard 
pressed in the north. Against these the Kalachurya 
usurpers and the powerful southern feudatory Hoysala 
must have come to an understanding as between 
themselves. This would account for the invasions of 
the Hoysala dominions by Bamma or Brahma, who 
restored Somesvara IV, the last Chalukya, to his an- 
cestral throne in a.d. 1183. This last Chalukya had 
to betake himself to the south-west of his dominions 
under the increasing pressure put upon him by the 
powerful Yadavas under Billama his own feudatory 
on the north-west, and the rising power of Warangal 
under Prola and his son Pratapa Rudra Deva I. The 
Yadava extension from the north-west and the Hoysala 
extension from the south bring them face to face on 
the banks of the Malprabha and the Krishna. In this 
neighbourhood a battle was fouj^ht at Soratur near 
Gadag, where Bhillama Yadhava was finally defeated, 
and the fort of Lokkundi in Dharwar occupied by 



252 ANCIENT INDIA 

Vira Bellala in a.d. 1190. The fortified places he 
rapidly took this year or before it were — Virata's 
city (Hangalj, Kurugodu, the Matanga Hill, Dora- 
vadi, Gutti, Guttavolalu, Uddare, Haladi, Bandanike, 
Ballare, Soratiir, Bremberege (Yelburga), Halawe. 
Manuve, and Lokkigundi itself (all in the region be- 
tween the present Mysore frontier and the Krishna). 
Before this in 1189 Somesvara IV was defeated pro- 
bably by the Yadavas and no more is heard of him. 
The time was now ripe for Bellala to assume formal 
independence of any suzerain, for there was none, except 
the Yadava Jaitugi who had been defeated with his 
father. The Sindas having been overcome already there 
was no one between the two. Hence, the Malprabha, 
and after its junction the Krishna, became the parting 
line between the Hoysalas in the south and the Yadavas 
of Deogiri in the north, and this division continued 
till both were overthrown in succession by Malik Kafur 
in A. D. 1310. Vira Bellala in A. d. 1191-2, assumed the 
following paramount epithets and titles — ' Samasta 
Bhuvanasraya, Sri Prithvivallabha, Maharajadhiraja, 
Paramesvara and Parama Bhattaraka', and the style 
of ' Pratapachakravartin Bhujabala Pratapa Chakra- 
vartin, Hoysala Chakravartin, Bhujabala Pratapa Cha- 
kravartin, and Yadava Chakravartin, and started an era 
in his name. This completes the independence of the 
Hoysalas, although the claim to the whole of Kuntala 
appears mere extravagance. By A. D. 1191-2 Mysore 
as an independent State had been made, and the rest 
of the Hoysala story belongs to another chapter of South 
Indian history. 

We have thus seen the stages by which a petty 
chief and his descendants in the south-west corner of 
the Kadiir district worked their way up to the estab- 
lishment of a powerful State, which made its influence 
felt in the history of South India. In this work the 
chiefs displayed not only military ability, but also great 



LATER HOYSALAS 253 

diplomatic shrewdness bj' which, without in the least 
giving cause for the suspicion of disloyalty, they turned 
every circumstance to their advantage and waited till 
they could, without fear of being charged with treachery 
and disloyalty, assume the regal position. In this work, 
political circumstances of the times combined with per- 
sonal skill, and this happy conjunction it was that made 
their course uniformly successful ; for otherwise they 
would have been overthrown beyond recovery by Yikra- 
maditya. Yinayaditya was perhaps a more active chief- 
tain than his peers, but it was the valuable services of 
his son to the rising sun of the Chalukyas that established 
his claim to the emperor s gratitude. His son Yishnu 
rendered an even more valuable service to the empire — 
not emperor only — by stopping the advancing tide of 
the Chola conquest. Through a long period of activity 
he was able to gain imperial recognition to the rule 
of modern Mysore. This, however, had to be made 
good as against other ambitious but lo5'al chieftains, 
who were overthrown daring the usurpation in the em- 
pire. This was taken advantage of by A'lra Bellala, as 
has been pointed out already, who gave the coup de grace 
and stood in the plenitude of power as the ' Emperor 
of the south ' — merely the south of the western Cha- 
lukya empire and nothing more as yet. There is 
still the expansion of the Hoy sal a empire, which goes 
so far as to establish an alternative capital near 
Srirangam, and then comes the fall, not in the usual 
course, but through the intervention of a disturbing 
element, the Muhammadan invasion of the Dekhan. 
That is a century hence and falls in the reign of an 
ill-fated Vira Bellala. 



CHAPTER IX 

VISHNUVABDHANA 

In the ' Making of Mysore ' I have dwelt somewhat 
fully upon the aspect of this great ruler of Mysore 
as an empire-builder. I have, however, hardly touched 
upon the great change that came over him in the course 
of his royal career, which led to his conversion from 
Jainism to Vaishnavaism. I propose m this chapter to 
deal with this side of his character, and thus describe 
the religious condition of Mysore in his days. 

Before proceeding to deal with this question, one or 
two common heresies regarding the particular form of 
worship followed by the disciples of Ramanuja have to 
be disposed of. It was Bishop Caldwell who gave 
currency to the idea that Ramanuja was the founder 
of Vishnu worship and that the Alvars were his dis- 
ciples. Caldwell could be pardoned readily, if the late 
professoL' Seshagiri Sastriar of the Presidency college, 
with much of the results of research that Caldwell 
had not before him, could hold the same opinion and 
identify the Yallabha Dfiva of the days of Periyalvar 
with Ati Vira Rama Pandyan, a. d. 1563, and bring 
other Alvars later in point of time. Professor Julien 
Vinson of Paris, following in the wake of these, with 
much more reasonable excuse in his favour than the late 
Professor, believes that Vaishnavism began about the fif- 
teenth or the sixteenth centuries. The Chola inscrip- 
tions published by Dr. Hultzsch in his latest volume 
(Vol. III. P II.,) effectively dispose of Caldwell's 



EVIDENCES OF VISHNU WORSHIP 265 

contention and a fortiori of those that follow in his foot- 
steps. Mr. A'enkayya, in his report to the Government 
last year (1904), refers to one inscription in the Tripli- 
cane temple of the time of the Pallavas, thereby proving 
the existence of the temple in Pallava times. If further 
proofs were wanted in this matter one has but to look 
for them. The Silappadhikaram, a Tamil Kavya of 
the second century of the Christian Era (the most 
unfavourable estimate of its antiquity placing it in 
the seventh century .\.d.), refers to the Vishnu tem- 
ples at Srirangam, Triuppati and Tirumalirunajolai. 
Coming up from them, Paramesvara Varman Pallava 
(regarded by Dr. Hultzsch as the second of the name) 
built the temple Paramesvara Vinnagaram (Ulagalan- 
dha Permal Koil) in Conjevaram. The period of the 
Pallava ascendency in Southern India must have been 
the period of great Hindu activity in religion, as 
against the rival faiths of the Jina and the Buddha. 
This was exactly the period of the great temple 
builders, and several temples dedicated alike to Siva and 
Vishnu in South India owe their existence to this 
dynasty. Simha A'ishnu or Xarasimba Varman, other- 
wise Mahamalla, was the builder of the rock-cut temples 
at Mahabalipuram (the Seveu Pagodas) and he was the 
rival contemporary of Pulikesin II, whose court Ywan 
Chwang (Hiuen Thsang) visited in his travels through 
India. Kochengan, a Chola who must have preceded 
the Pallava^. built temples to Vishim and Siva in close 
proximity often, sn that from the seventh century onward 
Saivaism and Vaishnavaism developed side by side 
and were alike patronized by the royalties of those 
days. 

Through all this time, however, Mysore remained 
generally Jain. The lianga rulers appear to have been 
Jains, although the Kongu chronicle states that the 
great Ranganatba temple at Srirangapatam was built 
in the days of the later Ganga rulers. There are records. 



256 ANCIENT INDIA 

however, of the existence of Siva and Vishnu temples, 
endowed by individual sovereigns of the Ganga dynasty. 
In the days of Vishnu vardhana a temple manager of 
the Siva temple at Maddur {alias Sivapura) claimed 
a plot of land on the strength of a copper-plate grant of 
^iva Mara II. {Girc. a. D. 750). There are similar 
references to Vishnu temples. This Sivamara's father, 
Sri Purusha Muttarasa, is referred to as a worshipper 
at the feet of Narayana. Thus then we see Vaishna- 
vaism as a religion was in existence long before the days 
of Eamanuja, however much he may have reformed, 
altered or added to it. 

The advance of the Chola Power in South India 
marks the advance also of the Saiva religion, as most of 
the sovereigns were of the Saiva persuasion and richly 
endowed the temples, which either they themselves built 
or which were already in existence, although occasional 
grants were made and existing grants confirmed to the 
Vaishnava temples. About a. d, 1000, therefore, there 
was fresh vigour in religious development, partly because 
the struggle against the Jains had become somewhat 
keener, and partly because the work of the saints, 
Saiva and Vaishnava, had borne fruit in the increased 
attention to religion. It was while this religious 
ferment was beginning to operate that the Chola 
conquest of Mysore began. This conquest, which 
gradually gave the Gangavadi 96,000 and the great 
part of Nolambavadi 32,000 to the Cholas, brought 
the Saivism of the Cholas and the Jainism of the 
Chalukyas face to face in the Mysore country. Nol- 
ambavadi had been lost practically to the Chalukyas 
before the days of Ahavamalla Somesvara, so that 
the continual wars in this part of the frontier had 
also a religious element in it. When Vishunvardhana, 
therefore, came to take part in the politics of Mysore, 
the country was in the unsettled state of religious 
debate. Jainism was generally in the ascendant, while 



vishnuvardhana's conversion 257 

there was a considerable following for the Saivas and 
Vaishnavas as well. 

It was while matters were in this state that the 
Brahman youth of Conjevaram succeeded to the 
Vaishnava apostolic seat at Srirangam of his great 
grand-father Alavandar. This j'oung man was Eama- 
nuja, who, born in the year 987 Saka, was to become 
the great reformer of India, and whose disciples hold 
much of the country south and north. Having put 
away his wife and assumed the robes of an ascetic^ 
he spent the best part of his days in teaching the- 
Vaishnavas of Srirangam. In his vedantic teachings 
he had often to criticize other schools of thought in 
religion which naturally made him a few enemies, 
though, if we can judge of the man by his works, he 
must have been far from a militant preacher. An 
impertinent and half-blasphemous remark of one of 
his disciples in reply to a challenge sent out by a 
doughty Saiva champion jeopardized Eamiinuja's posi- 
tion in Srirangam. The erring disciple placed himself 
in the position of the inoii'ensive preceptor and sent 
the latter for asylum into the Mysore country — the 
land of toleration. Here Ramanuja spent, according 
to the Guruparampara i , twelve years before he was. 
brought to the notice of Bitti Deva, then gradually 
becoming master of the Gangavadi DCi.OOO. The sincere 
piety and the persuasive eloquence of Ramanuja's 
teaching must have prevailed with the king, for he 
became a convert to the Vaishnava faith about a. d. 
1116. Bitti Deva thenceforward continued in the same 
persuasion under the title Vishnuvardhana. 

The account of this apparently simple incident has 
come down to us in a variety of ways. The Vaishnava 
accounts say that while at Saligram Eamanuja's stock 
of Namam (the kaolin-clay used as the face mark by 
the Vaishnavas) was spent, and that he was in diffi- 
culties as to what to do, when he dreamt of a hill 
17 



258 



ANCIENT INDIA 



of that earth near Melukote. Thither he went and 
on his way he found Bitti Deva (Vitala Devaraya) in 
camp at Tondanilr. This latter had a daughter, who 
was possessed by evil spirits, and all Jain incantations 
having failed to lay the ghost, Eamanuja brought 
about a successful exorcism, which convinced Bitti 
Deva of his superiority. He became a Vaishnava and 
after successful disputation in Bitti Deva's presence 
Eamanuja had a whole body of Jain ascetics and 
laymen ground in an oil mill, which is even now 
pointed out at Moti Talab (Tondanur). 

The Jain account states that the king was influ- 
enced by Eamanuja through one of his queens to 
become a Vaishnava. He resisted the temptation for 
a long time ; but when, owing to the loss of a finger 
,of his right hand in war, the Jain ascetics declined 
do dine with him, he forthwith became a Vaishnava. 

Of these two versions the latter must be stamped 
'as false entirely, because Vishnuvardhana was an 
eminently sensible man, treated his Jain wife, minis- 
ters and subjects with great consideration. His wife, 
the first at least, who after his conversion was a Jain 
to the day of her death, and her Basadi, the 
Savati Ghandavarana Basti at Sravana Belgola, is 
evidence of her religion. His daughter Hariale was 
a Jain. More than this, his right-hand man in the 
work of founding a kingdom, the great General 
Gangaraja in whose memory was built the Droha- 
gharatta Jinalaya at Halebid, was also a Jain of 
eminence ; for the inscriptions say that, by restoring 
Jain temples in the kingdom, he made it resemble 
Kopana or Koppal in the Nizam's Dominions. It could 
not, therefore, be that he became a Vaishnava by any 
underhand dealing, nor could he have had any parti- 
cular dislike of Jainism as such. 

The other version simply brings in a miracle to 
explain an ordinary event in the life of a great man. 



THE OIL MILL INCIDENT 259 

In those days it was the custom for eminent divines, 
Jain, Hindu or Buddhist, to discourse upon rehgious 
topics under the presidency of the great laymen — 
kings or rulers of provinces. We have numbers of 
references to it in the Shimoga inscriptions. Very 
probably Ramanuja held such a discourse, and ground 
down in the mill of his logic the arguments of his 
rivals. The oil mill affair could have been no more 
than this, for even if Raman uj a should have been so 
minded, Bitti Deva could hardly have permitted it, 
if not out of clemency, at least out of policy. With 
his wife, and his generals, and councillors all Jains, it 
would have been the height of folly in him to have 
done so. It is, therefore, nothing more nor less than 
a boastful assertion of triumphant success on the part 
of the Vaishnavas of a succeeding generation. Nor 
were they — the only sinners in this particular. 

We read in an inscription of about a. d. 1128 at Sra- 
vana Belgola that the Jain Akalanka achieved a similar 
feat. The Bauddhs of Kanchi to get rid of the Jains, 
challenged their great teacher Akalanka, from Sudha- 
pura or Sode in North Kanara, to a disputation under 
Himasltala A. d. 855. Having once before defeated 
the Buddhists on behalf of the Vira Saivas, he went 
forth confidently and having, after days of argu- 
mentation had the better of the debate, Himasitala 
ordered them to be ground in oil mills. Akalanka, 
true to his character, as the preceptor of the Ajivakas 
interceded, and got them banished to Ceylon and other 
distant islands. Strangely enough after this general 
destruction of the Buddhists by the Jains, we hear of 
Buddhists as governors of provinces even ; to wit 
Buddhamitra, governor of Ponparri near Ramanad in 
the reign of Kulottunga II. 

The oil mill incident was an accepted embellishment 
in handing down the accounts of these disputations, of 
which there must have been a number going on at 



260 ANCIENT INDIA 

different places simultaneously. That it is impossible 
that either Vishnuvardhana or his successors could 
have sanctioned any such thing, is borne out by a 
number of incidents in their history. It was from 
the royal residence at Melkote that Vishnuvardhana 
makes a grant to the ^aiva temple, at Chamund 
Hill. He does receive the 'holy food' presented by 
the Jains after the consecration of the Jinalaya at 
Halebid, and directs the image to be named Vijaya 
Parsvanatha in honour of his victory. He honours 
Sri Pala Trividya Deva (the Jain controversialist) and 
even appoints him tutor to his children. It vs^as 
about this time that the Vira ^aiva (the so-called 
Lingayat) sect comes into prominence, so that in the 
course of the century Jainism was subjected to the 
simultaneous attacks of the Vaishnavas from the south 
and the Vira Saivas from the north. The manner in 
which the Hoyasals — rulers and ministers alike — dealt 
with these rival sects is a supreme instance of their 
religious policy from which more modern rulers might 
learn lessons of wisdom. Here is the historical ac- 
count of the foundation of the temple at Harihar ; 
' The great minister, the setter up of the Chola, Vira 
Narasimha Deva Polalvadandanatha caused to be made 
a temple for the god Harihara, shining with one 
hundred and fifteen golden Kalasas.' The object of 
building the shrine was to reconcile the opposing sects 
of the Saivas and the Vaishnavas. ' Some saying that 
beside Hari there is no god on earth, and some 
saying that besides Hara there is no god in the 
earth, in order to remove the doubts of mankind, was 
assumed with glory in Kudalur the one form of Hari- 
hara. May he with affection preserve us. The cele- 
brated Siva acquired the form of Vishnu, Vishnu 
acquired the great and famous form of Siva, in order 
that this saying of the Veda might be fully estab- 
lished, in Kudal there stood forth in a single form» 



RELIGIOUS TOLERATION 261 

praised by the world Harihara — may he protect the 
earth' 'The renowned Vaishnava Chakravarti, this cele- 
brated Polalvadandadeva, is the only one who obtained 
success with the collyrium of merit ; if not how 
could he successfully acquire the treasure to create 
the lofty mansion of Harihara, shining with a hundred 
golden Kalasas ? Formerly Hermmadi Eaja wanted 
to make a temple for Harihara, but stopping him 
in a dream, saying : " A faithful one will be born 
hereafter who will make my abode, you stop," and 
Harihara having with affection said : " you only make 
my temple in a suitable manner, Polalva," he made 
it.' This achievement of a Vaishnava minister in re- 
conciling the two opposing sects is a unique instance 
of a breadth of view in religion, which is hard to find 
elsewhere at the time. 

This was the feat of one of a class of persons, 
rulers and ministers, who have been devoted Vaish- 
navas. Vishnuvardhana after his conversion, perhaps 
through the course of his career, built temples 
dedicated to Narayana — at any rate endowed them 
richly — such as Vira Narayana at Talakad, Vljaya 
Narayana at Belur, Kirti Narayana at Bannvir. In 
his progress through his dominions he had taken 
pains to inquire into the condition of these and other 
foundations, and saw that they were restored to their 
former position of eminence as places of worship. 
He did not in this show any partiality to one sect or 
the other. His general Gangaraja endowed Jain 
temples equally with the sanction of his master, as the 
several donations to Jain temples by this general and 
other Jain devotees would show. This example was 
followed by his successors, equally well whether they 
were Vaishnava or Saiva for some of them were of 
the latter persuasion also. 

Thus then it is clear that in the matter of religion, 
this Vaishnava Constantine, Vishnuvardhana, as the 



262 . ANCIENT INDIA 

disciples of Ramanuja took delight in calling him, 
was far from being a sectarian. No attempt was 
made at any uniformity of religious belief, and the 
policy of the rulers was the most liberal that could be 
imagined. If other states and rulers had maintained 
this neutrality in religion the world over, the world 
would have been saved many bloody wars. Had 
Vishnuvardhana and his successors adopted any other 
policy in religion, they would have shown a fatuity 
which might have ruined them. That they deliber- 
ately adopted this policy of religious neutrality speaks 
much for their statesmanship. 



CHAPTEE X 

BIJJALA 

It has been pointed out- in the chapter on the making 
of Mysore that the kingdom could be regarded as 
such only after a.d. 1193. ahnost in the middle of 
the reign of Vira-Bellala. Vishnuvardhana had made 
it in a way ; but it required the energy and enterprise 
of his grandson before his rule could be regarded as 
complete. The credit of consolidation belongs to Vlra- 
Bellala, who succeeded his father on the twenty-second 
July A.D. 1173. 

The Karnataka, or the Chalukya Empire, stretched 
out southwards from the Satpura mountains to the 
end of the Dekhan plateau, and had been divided into 
a number of governorships, each under a Mahaman- 
dalesvara, with more or less of other authority vested 
in him, according to the character of the official and 
the degree of favour enjoyed by him at court. Of 
these potentates those round about the head-quarters 
of the emperor were more under imperial authority, 
and were usually loyal, as a virtue, perhaps, of neces- 
sity. "Whether this was actually so or not, we have 
references to a southern treasury of the empire and 
by inference other treasuries likewise. Each of these 
larger divisions appears to have had a common fisc and 
included a number of provinces. An attempt had 
evidently been made to bring the frontier viceroys 
under the direct control of the head-quarters officers 
by the appointment of a board of control, whose chief 
functions appear to have been financial, thus bringing 



264 ANCIENT INDIA 

the sinews of war beyond the absolute disposal of the 
viceroys. This, we see, was the practice under the 
usurper Bijjala, and it lets us thus into the secret of 
his elevation to the empire. 

Bijjala's father, Permmadi, was governor of Tarda- 
vadi 1,000 district round Bijapur under Somesvara III 
Bhulokamalla (a. d. 1128). His son was Bijjala, who 
may have succeeded to his father's estate of gov- 
ernor of the Tardavadi 1,000. Whether he did so or 
not, he is heard of about the end of the reign of 
the emperor Jagadekamalla II (1138-49) with no 
official titles ; but ' his servant ' Vijaya Pandya was 
ruling the Nolambavadi 32,000. As inscriptions of 
Yira Pandya are met with up to a. d. 1148, the 
inscriptions referred to above must be about the 
end of Jagadekamalla's reign. It is in his reign that 
Bijjala rises into importance, and what is more he is 
found busy on the very frontier which was fast pass- 
ing out of the emperor's hands. The Hoysalas had 
made themselves masters of the Gangavadi (which is 
not included in the ' Southern Treasury,') for some 
time ; but their claims to the provinces of Banavase 
and Nolambavadi were very strongly contested by the 
Muhamandalesvaras themselves and by the emperor. 
It was against these two sets of rivals that Vira 
Bellala had to make good his claim. 

Of these NoJambavadi had surely fallen under the 
Chola power. The fact that Chalukya inscriptions of 
an earlier period are absent, and the Chola inscriptions 
are found in the province shows the Chola hold upon 
the province. The Pandyas of Nolambavadi were as 
forward as the Hoysalas to render service against the 
Cholas and had earned the gratitude of Vikrama- 
ditya — no less than their compeers and relatives, the 
Hoysalas. Thenceforward the dynasty of viceroys, the 
Pandyas of Uchchangi ruled from their hill-fort the 
province so recently recovered from the Cholas. When 



bijjala's rise to power 265 

we come to the reign of Vira Bellala, two generations 
of Pandyas had ruled after the brother of Irukkapala 
the father-in-law of Vishnuvardhana's father Erej'anga. 
When Bijjala appears on the scene, Vira-Pandya, one 
of the roost powerful of the dynasty, was in power, 
which was about to pass to his younger brother Vijaya 
Pandya. 

The neighbouring province of Banavase had long 
been under the empire. Vikramaditya had himself 
been viceroy under his father, and when he became 
emperor, his younger brother Jayasimha was viceroy. 
So that this had come to be regarded as the premier 
province of his empire. Whatever was the reason for 
it, upon the loyalty of the viceroy of this province 
depended the imperial authority over the provinces 
belonging to the southern treasury. When Bijjala 
emerges into the full light of history, we hear of him 
as the viceroy of the two provinces, ruling by deputies. 
This must have come about somewhat in this wise : 
Bijjala must have shown great administrative capacity 
which included in it great military ability, as governor 
of his hereditary province of Tardawadi, which must 
have been too narrow a sphere for the full display of 
his faculties. Either to put them to the best use or 
to get rid of them, he was entrusted with the duty 
first of all of watching and counteracting the machi- 
nations of the southern viceroys — perhaps as the fiscal 
officer sent out by the emperor. This would explain 
why, while claiming the Pandya for his servant, he 
appears without official titles of his own. This supe- 
rior position he was able to turn to account, when 
later on Jagadekamalla was succeeded in the empire 
by his brother Taila III. Under the latter he grew 
to be so useful and loyal that he was called to the 
head-quarters to help the emperor, governing Banavase 
and Nolambavadi by deputies. These deputies, what- 
ever their loyalty, he subordinates and keeps under 



266 ANCIENT INDIA 

the eyes of the emperor, and that is himself by send- 
ing out five commissioners to control ostensibly the 
finances of the southern treasury. By so doing he 
keeps the most turbalent of these viceroys well in hand. 
Unfortunately for the empire there arises the new 
power of the Kakatiyas of Warangal, and Bijjala's 
activity, so successful in the south, is wanted in the 
north-east, the more so, as the new power under Prola 
inflicted a defeat upon the empire in a. d. 1155. 
Bijjala's name has been handed down to us with the 
stigma of cruelty and persecution attached to it; first, 
because of his usurpation, and next because of his per- 
secution of the so-called Lingayets and their founders. 
Both these charges against him have to be carefully 
examined in the dry-light of history before the verdict 
is pronounced by the historian. Bijjala does not 
appear to have used any cruelty in his ascent to 
power, though no doubt he made a very skilful use of 
the advantage of his position and the adverse circum- 
stances of the empire. He was not alone in this. 
Every viceroy tried to take advantage of the troubles 
into which the empire was thrown, while Bijjala 
ought to be given credit for having early observed the 
trend of affairs and for having made a successful attempt 
to stop the flowing tide of disruption. Exposed as 
it was to simultaneous attacks of the powerful Cholas 
in the south and the Chalukyas in the east, the 
empire was preserved from dismemberment through 
the genius of Vikramaditya. If it did not break up 
immediately after his death, it was because the enemy's 
powers were otherwise engaged, and the Mahaman- 
dalesvaras of Vikramaditya remembered with gratitude 
his services to them. Nevertheless, the tendencies were 
there and, with each advance of the viceroys, other 
powers were rising on the horizon. The Hoysala 
activity in the south and the Kakatiya exertions in 
the east were kept under control by Bijjala taking 



bijjala's character 267 

advantage of the counteracting forces. This naturally 
led him on to the pinnacle of power, and it was only 
when he found that there was no possibility of keeping 
up the phantom of an emperor that he assumed 
imperial state. In one sense, therefore, he might be 
regarded as the benefactor of the empire, not emperor 
of course, in keeping it half a century longer than its 
appointed time. To him also probably belongs the 
credit of organizing the imperial resources and of 
bringing the viceroys under control by placing them 
under financial control from head-quarters. For it is 
in his reign that we see the five Karariams being 
sent out to keep a watch over the doings of the 
viceroys of Banavase and probably of other trouble- 
some provinces as well. 

In the religious aspect of the question again Bijjala 
had been brought to the notice of posterity only by 
the religious literature of the Vira-Saivas, mostly 
composed centuries after the time they treat of. In 
these he is held up naturally enough to execration. 
But inscriptions of his time in the Shimoga district — ■ 
particularly at Balagamve — throw a curious light upon 
the much-abused man and the ruler. On the one 
hand the inscriptions point to a far greater control 
over the viceroys, as grants have to be made with 
permission from head-quarters or at least obtain sanc- 
tion when made. On the other hand, the lands and 
other grants made to Saiva, Vaishnava and Jain 
shrines are all placed under the control of the leading 
men of all persuasions. The place was sacred alike 
to all three of these. In a. d. 11()'2, while Bijjala 
had made himself supreme, his viceroy was Kasyapa, 
with whom no one can be compared ' in taking sole 
charge of a country ruined by the administration of 
others and bringing it into prosperity'. ' With the per- 
mission of that great one, Barmmarasa was governing 
the Banavasenad.' 



^68 ANCIENT INDIA 

' The royal inspectors were the five Karanams— 
Sridhara Nayaka, Achana Nayaka, Chattimayya Na- 
yaka, Malliyana Nayaka and Tikkamayya Nayaka : — 
these shone like the five senses to king Bijjala 
Deva '—all ' benevolent to others, powerful as the ocean, 
in ministerial skill unmatched, bold as fierce lions, 
able in detecting frauds, superior to all opposition, 
their great fame like the sound of the tHrya (a 
musical instrument), strengthened with all manner of 
self-acquired merit, devoted to the faith of the 
Isvara, — these Karanams were great.' Barmmarasa's 
great minister was Eavideva. 

' While all these, united in the enjoyment of 
peace and wisdom, were one day discoursing on 
Dharmma, Bijjala Maharaja having come there, in 
order to subdue the southern region, encamped 
in Balagamve, Kasappya Nayaka rising and stand- 
ing in front of his Maharaja, folding his lotus hands 
said, " Deva, a petition ", and spoke as follows : 
" The southern Kedara is the means of the abso- 
lution of sin, the very presence of Siva manifested 
to all the citizens, visibly displaying all the glory 
of the Krita Yuga. Besides this, its matha is like 
the ancient Kamatha (tortoise) a support of all the 
world." 

' Descended in the line of the gurus of that Matha, 
the disciple of Gautamacharya, is Vama Sakti Munls- 
varacharya.' ' Therefore were the Deva to perform in 
that Matha some work of merit, it will endure as 
long as the sun and moon.' 

' On his saying thus, the King Bijjala taking it to 
mind — for the decoration of the God Dakshina Keda- 
resvara, for gifts of food to the ascetics, for gifts of 
learning, for repairs to the temple, and for satisfying 
the good and the beloved, — in his sixth year, etc., at 
the time of the sun's eclipse, washing the feet of 
Gautamacharya's disciple Vama Sakti Pandita Deva, 



PERSECUTION IMPOSSIBLE 269 

made a grant.'* On the same day as this he made 
grants to other Siva temples as well. 

Several others of his viceroys and governors were 
staunch Saivas and Vaishnavas who built and en- 
dowed Siva and Vishnu temples, the greatest among 
the latter having been Kesava Dandanayaka. A ruler 
who could not merely tolerate, but also actively parti- 
cipate in benefactions to the religious institutions of 
the rival sects could not be charged with persecution 
without ample evidence. It does not matter for the 
question, whether this was out of sincere toleration or 
as a matter of policy to keep the viceroys well dis- 
posed towards him. This would appear the more re- 
markable in Bijjala, when it is remembered that the 
time was one of great religious activity. The Vaish- 
navaism of Ramanuja was gaining strength in the south 
and on the border of Mysore some of the sects, 
the Pasupata, Kapalika, Kalamukha, etc., of the Saivas 
were strong. What was more, Vamadeva Pandita, 
the disciple of Gautamacharya, was the most impor- 
tant figure, often called in inscriptions the Eajaguru, 
and in the inscriptions at Balligamve, he is shown up 
as a prominent teacher in whom is placed so much 
faith by Government and people alike, that the endow- 
ments to temples, Saiva, Vaishnava, Jaina, etc., are 
placed in his charge. While Bijjala was strengthen- 
ing the imperial hold upon the viceroys, local govern- 
ments appear to have been working with great vigour 
as well — the pattanaswamis or town mayors playing 
a verv impoi'tant part at the head of their town 
councils. The fact which Mr. Rice notices of Jina 
images having been pared down into Ijingams must 
have been of a later time when the so-called Lingayets 
or Yira Saivas, got the upper hand in those regions ; 
for we see that in the next generation the struggle on 

1 102 of Shikarpur, Epigraphia Carndiaka, vol. vii. 



270 ANCIENT INDIA 

the border land is not between the Jains and the 
Saivas but between the Vaishnavas and the latter. 
In this struggle again the rulers showed a commend- 
able spirit not merely of toleration, but also of an 
attempt at reconciliation, the direct outcome of which 
policy is the Harihara temple at Harihar. 

Thus in religion and equally so in administration, 
Bijjala and his sons, who followed in succession, pursued 
a conciliatory policy which kept the turbulent viceroys 
under control and their administration, strong and 
popular. Ahavamalla, the last of them, charged his 
viceroys of treasuries thus : ' Govern the country 
which is the treasury of the south like a father.' One 
Kesava Nayaka ruled so well under his Government, 
that none was conceited, none conspicuous in splendour, 
none in opposition, none clamouring for influence, 
none creating a disturbance, none who was in suffer- 
ing, no enemies filled with anger, and none who re- 
ceiving titles had his head turned by the songs of 
poets ! Though a usurper Bijjala was able to retire 
in favour of his sons and let them succeed peacefully, 
a contingency very often not met with in rulers even 
of the most undoubted succession. His assassination 
which appears to have been a fact must have been 
brought about by some private misunderstanding and, 
if such scandal could be believed in, had been brought 
about by a liason with the minister Basava's sister 
who is credited with an immaculate conception, by 
the Basava and Channa Basava Puranas, the outcome 
of which was the Younger Basava or Channa Basava. 
This would also account for the main plank of reform 
of the Lingayats — the re-marriage of widows. 

During all this period of usurpation in the empire, 
the Hoysala activity appears to have been carefully 
checked ; and through much of this period, Narasimha, 
ably seconded as he was by his father's viceroys and 
his son Kumara Bellala, had to be content with the 



BELLALA Il'S ACCESSION 271 

Gangavadi 96,000. Any activity, noticeable at all, was 
against the petty chiefs, the Kongalvas and other 
hill-chiefs of the western frontier. When Vira-Bellala 
came to the throne in a. d. 1173, he had to begin 
to work on the lines of his grandfather Vishnuvard- 
hana, while the empire had passed to Rayamurari 
Sovi-Deva. 



CHAPTEE XI 

MYSORE UNDER THE WODEYABS 

This chapter is an historical outline of the origin and 
growth of the State of Mysore under the present 
dynasty up to the time of Haidar 'All. This period of 
the history ' of Mysore is hardly touched at all in 
any history except in that by Colonel Wilks, who 
was not in possession of the historical material now 
available to the student of history. The errors he 
has fallen into are rather serious but quite excusable 
in one who wrote so early in the century as he did, 
and who obtained all the information then possible. 
The publication of the volumes of inscriptions in 
Mysore by Mr. Eice is likely to throw a flood of 
light upon Mysore history and that of some other 
contemporary kingdoms. This and the lately publish- 
ed works of Minister Tirumala Iyengar are the main 
authorities on which this paper rests for its informa- 
tion. The history of Mysore in Kannada prose com- 
piled at the direction of his late Highness, though 
not of much value as an historical composition, is 
still of use as supplying fuller information on what 
is otherwise found to be the truth. It is not as an 



1 1 refer to two works— The Palace History and Wilks' History. 

The Palace History is a, Ciiaarese compilation from the Vamsdvali 
and other MS records in the palace. It was compiled at the instance 
of His late lamented Highness Sri Channarajendra Wodeyar. It is 
based on traditions of a more or less reliable character. 

The Historical Sketches of South India by Wilks is referred to in 
the chapter as Wilks' History. 



VIJAYANAGAR AFTER A. D. 1565 273 

authoritative composition that I write this chapter on 
Mysore. It is only a small contribution, which may 
eventually lead to the writing of a good history of 
Mysore, of which this is but an imperfect sketch of 
a period covering nearly two centuries. 

In the epoch making battle of Talikota, in which 
the Musalmans and the Hindus contended for supre- 
macy in southern India, and which ended in the 
complete victory of the Muhammadan coalition, the 
emperor Rama Eaja, the last real one, fell. His 
only surviving brother Hiri Timmaraja fled with the 
wreck of the army to Vijayanagar, and finding it 
impossible to sustain himself any longer there against 
the conquerors, he shifted his capital to Ghanagiri 
(Penukonda). Here he died leaving three sons, Sriranga 
Rayal, Rama Raja, and Venkatapati Raya. The divi- 
sion of the empire was made during the father's 
lifetime in accordance with which, Sriranga Rayal 
ruled from Penukonda, nominally at least, the whole 
of the Telugu country ; Rama Raja had for his share 
the Kannada country with his capital at Srirangapatna ; 
Venkatapati Raya ruled from Chandragiri ^ over the 
largest portion as would appear, namely, over the Tonda, 
Chola, and Pandya Mandalams. But that this rule 
was anything more than nominal is matter for doubt 
as will appear from the sequel. As it was, however, 
the Vijayanagar empire extended from the banks of 
the northern Pennar, if not the Tungabhadra to Cape 
Comorin, and was divided in 1597 into the viceroyal- 
ties of Penukonda, Ginjee, Tanjore, INIadura, Channa- 
patna, and Srirangapatna, the first one and perhaps 
nominally the whole under Sriranga Rayal, the next 
three under Venkatapati Raya, and the last two under 
Rama Raja.' 

1 Chikha Deva Baja Vamsdvali, pp. 1-16. 
3 Wilks' History, vol. i, p. 59. 
18 



274 ANCIENT INDIA 

About this time, Sriranga Eayal died without issue, 
and Eama Eaja also followed leaving Tirumal Eaya, his 
son, a minor ; so that the whole empire devolved upon 
Venkatapati Eaya. Tirumal Eaya lived with his uncle, 
leaving at Srirangapatna as vice-regent Eemati Eevati, 
or Timati Venkata the general of Eama Eaja. The 
viceroys, aware of the weakness of the central author- 
ity, bore the yoke rather lightly and waited for 
an opportunity to shake it off, when an incident hap- 
pened to accelerate the natural tendencies to disrup- 
tion. This incident is reported by |Tirumala Aiyan- 
gar, who lived in the latter half of the seventeenth 
and the earlier half of the eighteenth centuries, 
occupying all along a commanding position in the 
courts of successive rulers of Mysore as follows : ' The 
Madura Naik revolted and Venkatapati Eaya sent 
his nephew (probably now a major) to put down the 
revolt. Instead of doing this, his plain duty, Tirumala 
Eaya received bribes from the rebellious satrap and 
marched with all his army to Srirangapatna, thereby 
bringing on himself a deserved retribution and show- 
ing to onlookers the hoUowness of the empire.' ' 
It was under these circumstances that there arose a 
particularly clever ruler in Mysore, who turned them 
all to his advantage and laid the foundation of the 
present Mysore State. 

We shall now proceed to inquire who this person- 
age was and what his position. There seems to have 
been in use in the territory of Mysore (and even out- 
side it) ever since the dawn of history the designation 
of Wodeyars signifying a certain feudal status. What 
the amount of the land was, the possession of which 
gave this honorific title to the possessor, is very hard 
to determine now. There have been Wodeyars whose 
possessions varied from a village or two to thirty 

J Chikka Leva Baja Vijayam, 2nd Canto ; Chikla Deia Baja Vamad' 
vali, pp. 1-16. 



ORIGIN OF THE FAMILY 275 

or forty. The Wodeyar of Karoogahally * owns himself 
master of only one village; and Eaja Wodeyar of 
Mysore about the same time was lord of twenty-three 
villages.' But the term Wodeyar is also largely used 
in another sense being merely equivalent to ' lord '. 
This is the term used in addressing priests among 
the Lingayets. It may be a combination of both 
vphen applied to the members of the ruling family. 
But Yadu Eaya is said to have been requested by 
his wife to assume this title as a mark of gratitude 
to a Lingayet priest who helped him in taking posses- 
sion of Mysore from the usurper Dalaway Maranayaka.* 
Whatever may be the value of this story, the title 
seems to have retained both the above meanings as 
applied to the Mysore family. 

This family traces its descent from a certain Yadu 
Raya who is believed to have reigned from 1399 to 
1423. He is said to have come to this province from 
Dwaraka. The object of his journey to Mysore with 
his brother Krishna is differently given by different 
authorities ; some giving the worship of god Nara- 
yana of Melukote as the object, and others that of 
the goddesp Chamundi of the Mysore Hill. Whatever 
the motive of these brothers, they appear to have 
been fugitive princes of the lately overthrown Hoysala 
family which had its capital at Dwaravati vthe modern 
Halebid), or of that of the Kakatiyas of Warangal which 
claimed to belong to the Chandra A'amsa as well.* 
But Wilks mentions them as Yadava fugitives from 
the court of Vijayanagar, which seems very likely. 
They came to Mysore where circumstances favoured 

1 Chikka Deva Raja Vamsivali, p. 16. 

* Thirty-three villages according to Wilks {vide vol. i, p. 21, footnote). 
s Palace History, p. 16. 

t This view seems to receive support from the author of copper plate 
No. 64 of Srirangapatna. 
Vide page 23 translation. 
Epigraphia Camitaka, vol. i, part 1. 



276 ANCIENT INDIA 

their founding a family. Here again accounts differ, 
but the one given in the Palace History looks more 
probable than that of Wilks. A certain Chama Eaja 
Wodeyar of Mysore died leaving behind him his 
widow and an only daughter. The Dalaway Marana- 
yaka assumed the regency which he tried eventually 
to convert into royalty. The widow and her daughter 
seem to have been helpless in his hands. ^ Perhaps, 
he would have married the daughter and thus given 
an appearance of legality to his usurpation ; but his 
unpopularity and the discontent among his officers 
came to a head in a conspiracy against him. The 
palace party seems to have had the sympathy of the 
people and the conspiracy against the usurper had 
gained in strength, when Yadu Eaya was ready to play 
his part by heading the conspiracy. Success attending 
the conspiracy, Yadu won the hand of the Wodeyar's 
daughter, and he succeeded to her father's estate as 
was agreed to before. It was a ' jungam ' priest that 
negotiated the treaty, and hence the title Wodeyar 
attached to the princes of the family as mentioned 
above. 

This is the historical founder of the family, and he 
ruled over Mysore town and a few villages about it. 
What the actual extent of this small State was we 
have no means of ascertaining now. He settled upon 
his brothei- an estate, which he took from one of his 
father-in-law's relatives, and died in 1423. 

His son Hiri Betad Chama Eaja Wodeyar succeeded 
him in 1423. Nothing is known of this personage 
except his name. He was in turn succeeded by his 
son Timma Eaja Wodeyar in the year 1458. His son 
Hiri Chama Eaja Wodeyar ascended the throne of 
the little kingdom, if we may call it a kingdom at all, 
in the year 1478. This ruler's son was Betad Chama 

1 Palace History, p. 9, et seq. 



BETAD CHAM A RAJA '277 

Baja^ whose reign began in the year 1513, and it is 
this person ^YllO has the honour of being mentioned 
in the inscriptions and copper plates next to Yadu, 
the intervening names being omitted. Betad Chama 
Eaja is credited by the Palace Hi.'^torij with having 
constructed a big tank in Mysore, and by Wilks 
with having repaired the fort of Mysore ' till then 
known as Puragery.' He is also said by the same 
authority to have removed the capital to Mysore, 
probably from Hadana, the place conquered by Yadu. 
This account, of course, differs from what is stated 
above. All the authorities referred to agree in giving 
this person three sons, Timma Eaja, Krishna Eaja, 
and Chama Eaja ' the bald '. During his lifetime, he 
arranged, according to custom, to settle Hemanalli 
upon Timma Eaja, and Kembala upon Krishna Eaja. 
Timma Eaja was, however, to succeed his father,* 
Chama Eaja ' the bald ', ruling after him. This is 
probably what is referred to by Wilks as the partition 
of the estate. But it is better to regard it as a settle- 
ment only, since all the other parties appear to have 
been subject to the ruler at Mysore. This is borne 
out by the settlement made at his death by Eaja 
Wodeyar. Before leaving Betad Chama Eaja,* it 
ought to be mentioned that this was the person who 
is regarded as having, by his prowess, earned the 
title of ' Birudantembara Ganda ' (the man of those 
that say they are so and so) mentioned in the in- 
scriptions. 

This ruler was succeeded in 1.5r)'2 by his son Timma 
Eaja according to the testament of his father. Timma 
Eaja IS reputed to have acquired the undoubted and 
sole right to the title of ' Birudantembara Ganda * 

' Vide Srirangapatna, 64, 100 -^nd others {Epi. Car.). 
■' Wilks' Bistory, vol. i, p. 22. 

3 Palace History, pp. 18, 99. 

4 Chikka Deva Raja Vamidvnli, p. 5(1, et scq. 



278 ANCIENT INDIA 

by defeating other Wodeyars who laid claim to it 
likewise during a visit to Nanjanagudu. He followed 
up this victory by the conquest of Ummatur and 
Sinduvalli.* During his time, Mysore territory must 
have been very small in extent, as he had to get 
permission from other independent Wodeyars to pass 
through their territory to Nanjanagiidu. 

This ruler was succeeded by his youngest brother 
Bole'^ Chama Raja or Chama Raja 'the bald'. This was 
no doubt the wish of the father, but why his elder 
brother Krishna Raja was passed over is not quite 
clear. Can it be that he died before 1571? This 
Chama Raja then ruled for five years 1571-6, and is 
credited by Wilks with having evaded the tribute due 
to the viceroy at Srirangapatna.^ It is now not ten 
years after the battle of Talikota which took place in 
1565. The viceroy is said to have besieged the fort 
of Mysore, and it is recorded that his Dalaway * Revati 
Remati, or Timati Venkata, was defeated and forced 
to cede Kottagala. This shows the want of efficiency 
in the viceregal government. 

About this time, also, Akbar had made himself 
almost master of Hindustan, and was turning his 
attention to the southern side of the Vindhyas. This 
new element of disturbance, and the resistance which 
it provoked in the Musalman Powers of the Dekhan, 
gave to the further south comparative peace, even the 
Bijapur and Grolconda priuces having had to divide 
their attention. It was only the imbecility of the Vijaya- 
nagar rulers that gave these petty Wode^'ars an 
opportunity for rising to greatness. Rama Raja, the 

1 Wilks' History, vol. i, p. 22 ; Palace History, p. 19. 
3 Hiri Chama Raja of Wilks and Dod Chama Raja of Sriraugapatua, 
157. Page 36, translation {Epi. Car.). 
3 Vol. i, pp. 12-13. 

< ChikJea Deva Raja Vamsdvali, p. 45, et seq. Srirangapatna 64 and 
others. 



BETAD ■WODKYAR '279 

viceroy, wa=; dead leaving behind hina the minor 
Tirumal Eaya mentioned above, whose treason cost 
him his vieerox^all y. 

Bole Chama Eaja left at his death four sons, 
Eajadhi Raja, Betad Chama Raja, Muppim Deva Raja 
and Chama Raja.' Here there is a disagreement 
among the authorities which appea.rs hard to reconcile. 
There is a confusion in NYilks" HL^tory between Betad 
Wodeyar, Timma Raja's son, and Betad Chama Raja 
Wodeyar, Bole Chama Raja's son. Wilks makes Raja 
Wodeyar, the son of Timma Raja, in opposition to all 
the other authorities. He is evidently wrong, as there 
is an inscription,' dated 1614 (Raja Wodeyar died in 
1617), which represents him as the son of Dodda 
Chama Raja ^Vodeyar of Mysore. But before going to 
Raja Wodeyar, we have to dispose of a Betad Chama 
Raja Wodeyar, who ruled for two years (1576-8). 
The Palace History makes him the eldest son of 
Chama Raja 'the bald'. But the inscriptions and 
other works referred to, make him the younger brother 
of Raja Wodeyar. Wilks,' on the other hand, makes 
the successor of Bole Chama Raja, a Betad Wodeyar, 
his nephew. He seems to be in the right, because the 
inscriptions and the works of Tirumala Aiyangar, above 
referred to, make no mention of this ruler. Besides, 
since both the cousins bore nearly the same name 
there is room for confusion, and the short duration 
of the rule of Betad Wodeyar has a suspicious air of 
forced abdication rather than of voluntary retirement. 
The idea of a younger brother superseding the elder 
to get over financial embarrassment, or of the compul- 
sory retirement of the latter by the elders of the land, 
seems not to be very common in the traditions of 
Indian rulers. The father Timma Raja having ruled, 

1 Vide Genealogical table No. 8. 

2 Srirangapatna, p. 36. Translation (Epi. Car.). 

3 Wilks' History, vol. i, p. '21. 



280 ANCIENT INDIA 

Betad Wodeyar naturally wished to succeed him, but 
his uncle came in the way with the authority of the 
testament above mentioned. At his uncle's death, 
he succeeded in the absence of a previous arrange- 
ment, and was probably persuaded to retire in favour 
of his cousin Eaja Wodeyar on the ground of the 
settlement of HemanaUi upon his father, Mysore 
falling to the lot of Chama Eaja ' the bald.'' Accord- 
ing to Wilks, there is nothing strange in Betad 
Wodeyar's quiet retirement, or in his accepting the 
office of Dalaway under Raja Wodeyar. There is 
nothing worthy of mention in this reign of two 
years.' 

In 1578, there came to the throne of Mysore a 
ruler, at once capable and politic, who laid the foun- 
dations of its greatness and consolidated, to a certain 
extent, the disintegrating viceroyalty of Srirangapatna ; 
this was Raja Wodeyar who, for reasons given above, 
may be considered the eldest son of Bole Chama 
Eaja of Mysore. The minority of Tirumal Eaya of 
Srirangapatna gave ample scope to the aggrandize- 
ment of the Wodeyars generally,' and Raja Wodeyar 
benefited most of all. A glance at the lists of his 
conquests shows that there were many powerful 
Wodeyars along with him under the nominal suzerainty 
of the viceroy at Srirangapatna. These Wodeyars 
can be roughly divided into two classes with respect 
to Eaja Wodeyar. Many of them were connected 
with him by marriages or otherwise; while there" were 
others who, having suffered at his hands, kept aloof 
from him and intrigued at the viceroy's court. To 
the former class belonged the Wodeyars of Kalale, 
Bilugula, Bilikere, Hura, Hullanahalli, Mugur, etc. 
To the latter class belonged the Wodeyars of Amma- 

1 Vide Genealogical tables i and iv. 

2 Palace History, pp. 474-8. 

3 Ibid., pp.22-3. Wilks' History, p. 28. 



RAJA WOPEYAR 281 

chavadi, Kanniambadi, Talakad, Karoogahalli, etc' 
Each member of these two classes seems to have 
been independent and did not always look up to the 
viceroy for help, as is evidenced by the alliances and 
treaties entered into independently. Each one seems 
to have thought only of making what use the name 
and prestige of the viceroy could afford him. At the 
commencement of his reign, Raja Wodeyar is said 
to have been master of twenty-three and a half 
' townships ' ^ with a revenue of three thousand bonnus 
la honnu is a rupee and a half). This territory was 
divided among 300 jagirdars, each with a head-quarter 
town of his own. The principal sources of revenue 
were taxes derived from this estate, plunder got from 
war, and tributes paid by other Wodeyars. With 
these means at his disposal, he seems to have been 
a troublesome neighbour, first attacking the Wodeyars 
of the Channapatna viceroyalty, and latterly under 
some pretext or other those of Srirangapatna itself. 
For all the conquests thus made, he appears to have 
sought the authority, at least after conquest, of his 
suzerain. But the suzerainty was at this time divided 
between the traitorous Tirumal Eaya and his uncle 
Venkatapati Eaya. Eaja Wodeyar, in his aggressive 
conduct against the viceroy of Srirangapatna, received 
the moral support of Venkatapati Eaya, the nominal 
ruler of the Vijayanagar empire. A^enkatapati Eaya, 
about this time, made a number of grants to Raja 
Wodeyar which appear to have been conquests rather 
than grants.' This growth of power and territory 
of the Wodeyar naturally alarmed the viceroy at 

I Chikka, Deva Baja Vamsdvnli. pp. 15-26. 

' Ibid., p. 26, et seq. 

3 Srirangapatna 157. Tirumakudlu Narsipur 116. Compare C'likka 
Deva Raja 7a7nidvaU, pp. 17-20. 

Chikha Deva Raja Vamiavali, pp. 17 and 20 ; Wilks' History, vol. i, 
p. 25. 



282 ANCIENT INDIA 

Srirangapatna, who tried to bring about the death of 
Raja Wodeyar. War was thought of, but stratagems 
were voted better by his vassal councillors. A general 
muster of the viceregal army was ordered under pre- 
tence of a review for the Dussarah, and Eaja Wodeyar 
was invited to pay a friendly visit. Raja Wodeyar, 
in his turn, and on the advice of his brothers, Betad 
Chama Raja and Deva Eaja, assembled his army, 
having been previously informed by his spies of the 
real state of feeling at Srirangapatna. He thought 
it better, however, to leave the army under Betad 
Chama Raja and paid his visit to the viceroy with 
his brother Deva Raja and a faithful body of followers.^ 
The viceroy received him with apparent cordiality, 
having previously arranged an ambuscade to take Eaja 
Wodeyar prisoner while going out for a ride. But, 
luckily for Raja Wodeyar, a petty incident thwarted 
the project. As soon as Tirumal Raya turned his 
back on Raja Wodeyar's quarters after his visit, the 
Wodeyar's attendants began, as usual on all public 
occasions, to repeat his titles, among them ' Birudan- 
tembara Ganda' so fruitful of quarrels in Mysore history. 
Tirumal Eaya sent word that this one of all the 
titles might be given up by both parties, as neither 
of them could lay claim to it as a hereditary title. 
This was resented. Eaja Wodeyar with his faithful 
retainers marched through the army of the viceroy 
which was described as follows: ' The contingents of 
Ballapur, Kolatala, Bangalore, Magadi, Punganoor and 
other Morasa countries were twenty elephants, two 
thousand horse, twenty thousand foot ; of Talakad, 
Yelandur, Ammachavadi, Tirukanambi and other in- 
terior nads (states), ten elephants, five hundred horse, 
ten thousand foot ; of Kalale, Belur, Keladi, and other 
Malnarts (hill-states), twenty elephants, two thousand 

I Chikka Deva Raja Vamidvali, p. 33, et seq. 



SEIEANGAPATNA ACQUIRED 283 

horse, twenty thousand foot; of Chintanakal, Chikka- 
nayakanahalli, Banavara, Basavapatna, Sira and other 
Bedar nads (hunter states), five elephants, five hun- 
dred horse, ten thousand foot.' Eana Jaga Deva Eayal, 
Kereyoor Timma Naika and other ' Eavuta Payakas ' 
(cavalry and infantry officers) supplied contingent of 
fifteen elephants, four thousand horse, twenty-four 
thousand foot. "\A'ith the reserve force of thirty ele- 
phants, three thousand horse, thirty thousand foot, the 
total runs up to a hundred elephants, twelve thousand 
horse and one hundred and fourteen thousand foot.' 
This is really Xapoleonic indeed for an army that 
was defeated by Eaja Wodeyar ! It is not probable 
that these were the actual numbers in the field ; 
but the above computation shows the miscellaneous 
composition of the army, and what little common 
interest they could have had in fighting for the 
viceroy. The viceroy resolved after due deliberation 
to lay siege to the fort of Kesaregonte and not, as 
originally proposed, to JVIysore. The first seems to have 
been, at the time, unfit for standing a siege. It 
was situated between Srirangapatna and Mysore. 
Betad Chama Eaja Wodeyar held out till a relieving 
force approached from Mysore, and the miscellaneous 
viceregal army was then put to flight easily. Tirumal 
Eaya, the viceroy, was already meditating flight from 
Srirangapatna, when some of the Wodeyars who had 
formerly counselled the advance of the army, now 
persuaded him to stand a siege, and encamped with 
their forces on the northern side of the fort. These 
were again defeated by Narasa Eaja, the eldest son of 
Eaja Wodeyar, and Tirumal Eaya now fled to Talakad 



1 Chikka Deva Baja Vamsdvali, pp. 26-33. 
In the States depending on Bijapur and Golconda were maintained 
200,000 horse. 

Footnote 2 at p. 58, vol. i of Wilks' History, 



284 ANCIENT INDIA 

leaving his family behind.' This event is generally 
regarded as having taken place in 1610. But it is 
recorded that Eaja Wodeyar received Srirangapatna 
as a grant from Venkatapati Eaya in 1612.' It 
v?ould thus appear that Raja Wodeyar obtained the 
sanction of Venkatapati Eaya for keeping possession 
of vs'hat he actually conquered. On the flight of 
Tirumal Eaya, the treatment accorded by Eaja Wode- 
yar to the wife of the ex-viceroy is variously related. 
According to Tirumala ' Aiyangar, Eaja Wodeyar point- 
ed out to her the desirability of accompanying her 
husband and provided her with an escort to go to 
Talakad, and this authority calls her Sriranganayaki. 
But the Palace History (pp. 31-2), gives a different 
version which appears to be nearer to the truth. 
The lady is named Alamelumanga, and she went to 
Malangi after her husband. Eaja Wodeyar, at the 
instance of the priest of Eanganayaki, the goddess, 
sent for some jewels belonging to the goddess in the 
possession of the viceroy's wife at the time, with a 
threat that the jewels would be taken from her by 
force if she did not surrender them at once. She 
refused to surrender them all on the score that they 
were her own, though she very often lent them for 
the decoration of the goddess. Having said this, and 
being afraid of her own safety, she drowned herself 
in a well at Malangi. But the popular tradition is 
that Eaja Wodeyar hounded her to death for the 
sake of her jewels and perhaps of her person too. 
She is said to have pronounced a curse at her death 
which may be rendered as follows : ' May Malangi be 
no more than a tank; may Talakad be buried under 
sand ; may the Eaja of Mysore have no issue left.' 

1 Wilks' History, vol. i, p. 26. 

2 Tiruraakudlu Narasipura 62 (a.d. 1622, actual date Saka year 1534, 
the year of cycle paridhSvi). 

' Chikka Deva Baja Vamsavali, pp. 31-2. 



VENKATAPATI KAYA CONFIEliS 285 

And Eaja Wodeyar is believed to have lost all his 
four grown-up sons on account of this. It is custom- 
ary even now in the royal family to perform an 
expiatory ceremony on the ninth day of the Dussarah 
to appease the angry spirit of this injured lady. 
From this custom it would appear that, whatever may 
have been the cause of her death, Raja Wodeyar, 
in having arranged for this ceremony, thought 
himself responsible for her tragic end. Thus was Sri- 
rangapatna mastered once and for all ; but Raja 
Wodeyar, in spite of the grant of Venkatapati Eaya 
in 1612, did not assume full sovereignty. In all the 
inscriptions* of his and of his grandson's reigns, the 
Vijayanagar emperor is introduced as the ruling sov- 
ereign, the grants being made in his time. The first 
inscription, in which this kind of introduction is 
dispensed with, is one dated 1646, during the reign 
of Kantirava Xarasa Eaja Wodeyar, ^ while another 
of the first year of this ruler duly acknowledges the 
suzerainty of the Vijayanagar ruler. 

On the overthrow of the viceroy at Srirangapatna 
Raja Wodeyar received an ambassador,^ named Gam- 
bhlra Eaja Virupanna, from Venkatapati Raya, who 
conveyed his master's congratulations to the Eaja 
Wodeyar on his victory over the viceroy. Raja Wodeyar 
was probably then appointed by the emperor to suc- 
ceed Tirumal Raya, thus making the appointment 
a virtue of necessity. Raja Wodeyar then ruled for 
a period of five or six years, nominally as viceroy, but 
actually as sovereign in his territory, which, with the 
additions he made to it, embraced nearly the whole of 
the present Mysore district and a part of Hassan. 

But before closing his history, a word must be 
said as to his administration. He appears to have 

> Srirangapatna 103, pp. 29-30, Translation {Epi. Car.). 

2 Nanjanagudu 198, pp. 115-6, Translation (Epi. Car.). 

3 Chikka Deva Raja Vamiavali, pp. 55-6. 



286 ANCIENT INDIA 

been careful to take the actual administration of the 
conquered territories into his own hands and to appoint 
his own officers. He is also reputed to have cele- 
brated the Dussarah festival on a grand scale and 
made the rule that, in future, the death even of the 
closest relatives of the royal family should not inter- 
fere with the festivities. This question had to be 
discussed by experts in his reign on account of the 
death of his eldest son Narasa Eaja. The appoint- 
ment of a Dalaway, discontinued ever since the usur- 
pation of Maranayaka, was now revived owing, as 
Eaja Wodeyar is made to say, to the vast additions 
to his estates. The first appointment was unsatisfac- 
tory, as indeed many of them were throughout. The 
first Dalaway under the present dynasty was Raja 
Wodeyar's nephew, Karikala Mallarajayya of Kalale, 
of the same family as the Dalaway brothers, who 
brought about the downfall of the ruling dynasty 
and the rise of Haidar 'AH. Mallarajayya resigned 
shortly after his appointment and was succeeded by 
Betad Wodeyar.* This Betad Wodeyar must have 
been the same as Raja Wodeyar's cousin who was 
superseded by him. This act of trust on the part of 
the latter flattered the feelings of the former who 
had quietly abdicated the royal position. Previous to 
the appointment of a Dalaway, Raja Wodeyar's army 
appears to have been uniformly led by his brother 
Betad Chama Eaja Wodeyar ; and, therefore, he could 
not have been the new Dalaway. Raja Wodeyar, 
by this time, had lost all the four of his grown- 
up sons and his youngest brother Chama Raja. 
He settled the succession, therefore, in consultation 
with his two surviving younger brothers, Betad 
Chama Raja and Deva Raja, on Chama Raja Wodeyar, 
his grandson by Narasa Raja. He is said by some 

1 Palace History, p. 4§. 



OHAMA EAJA WODBYAR 287 

authorities to have left to the infant Immadi Eaja the 
Jagir of West Dannayakanakote,' but Immadi Eaja is 
generally regarded a posthumous son. The sons of 
Betad Chama Eaja and Deva Eaja received the Jagirs, 
Eangasamudra and Nullur Vijayapura and Arikere and 
Yelandurumangala respectively ^ Having made these 
settlements, he retired with his brothers to Melkote 
where he died in 1617. 

Eaja Wodeyar accordingly was succeeded by his grand- 
son, Chama Eaja Wodeyar, who ruled from 1617 to 1637. 
It has been mentioned that, under Eaja Wodeyar, the 
office of Dalaway was revived to meet the exigencies 
of increased territory and administration. This ofSce 
combined in itself the offices of Prime Minister and 
Commander-in-Chief. At the accession of Chama 
Eaja Wodeyar, Betad Wodeyar held this important 
office and exercised his authority not so much as the 
Dalaway, but as guardian to the young Eaja. The 
Eaja and the Dalaway very soon fell out on a small 
matter, the one having been as tenacious of his 
authority as the other of his dignity. Betad AVodeyar, 
it would appear, dismissed a few servants near the 
person of the Eaja who were found to be abusing the 
trust. This was resented and consequently an attempt 
was made by Betad, Wodeyar's son, to poison the Eaja. 
Betad Wodeyar fled for his life which was granted him 
at the cost of his eyes. The office of Dalaway always 
appears to have been unfortunate in Mysore, for the 
officers were ready to misbehave, whenever the ruler was 
not strong enough to keep them under control. There 
were four Dalaways in this reign, the last of whom was 
Vikrama Eaya, the natural son of Betad Chama Eaja, 
brother of Eaja Wodeyar. Chama Eaja Wodeyar 



' Chikka Deva Raja Vamadvali, p. 57, et seq. 

2 Wilts' History, vol. i, p. 29. Palace History, p. 49, makes Raja 
Wodeyar prophesy the birth of a male child to his pregnant wife. 



288 ■ ANCIENT INDIA 

entrusted the whole administration to the Dalaways in 
order to have time enough to discharge his domestic 
duties.* So long as the Dalaways were men unconnected 
with the ruling family, they valued their position too 
much to intrigue, as was the case with the second 
and the third Dalaways of this reign.^ These Dala- 
ways, however, made a number of conquests and 
annexations and extended Chama Raja's inheritance 
in all directions. It is during this reign that the 
viceroyalty of Jagadeva Rayal was reduced to noth- 
ing by the capture of Channapatna and Nagamangala, 
and by the siege of Hoskote.' It is evident that 
Chama Raja persevered in carrying on the adminis- 
tration according to the lines laid down by his grand- 
father by keeping down the Wodeyars, by conciliating 
the ryots and by not increasing the rents.* He is said 
to have collected a great deal of war material and to 
have established a d6p6t at Srirangapatna.' He is 
also credited with having written a commentary on 
the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. He died with- 
out issue in 1637, and was succeeded by his boy uncle, 
Immadi Raja Wodeyar. Dalaway Vikrama Ray a lorded 
it over the new ruler, whom he found to be not the 
nominal one that he would have him, and so he had 
him poisoned in the year 1638. 

Who was to be the next ruler ? At the time of Raja 
Wodeyar's death his brother's children were provided 
with jagirs as became their dignity. Though nothing 
is recorded about Deva Raja, Betad Chama Raja is said 
to have been living in retirement at Rangasamudra not 
without exercising a wholesome influence at court. Now 

1 In one of the inscriptions Vikrama Raya is referred as the natural 
son of Eaja Wodeyar. 
'' Nanjangadu 9, p. 96, Translation Epi. Car. 
3 Palace History, p. 51. Wilks' History, vol. i, p. 29, 
< Chikka Deva Raja Vamidvali, p. 60, et seq. 
5 Palace History, p. 61. 



KANTIRAVA NARASA I 289 

that Raja Wodeyar's line failed of male issue, people 
naturally looked up to tho children of his next younger 
brother Betad Chama Eaja. From the palace genea- 
logical * tree, it appears that Betad Chama Raja had 
only one son living at the time and that was Kantirava 
Narasa Eaja Wodeyar. This person cannot have been 
the mere nominee of ^'ikrama Bay a, who was the 
natural son of l'>etad Chama Kaja, as Betad Chama 
Raja was himself living, nnd as Kantirava Narasa wnuld 
have suited ill the ambitions schemes of the Dalaw ay. 
The Palace Histurij (p. (15) besides makes Kantirava 
Narasa the adopted son of Raja \V. deyar, and, as such, 
he was invited and crowned by one of his widows. The 
adoption seems likely enough, as Raja ^Ycdeyar must 
have had reasons to fear that the direct line would fail. 
It must also have been the interest of the palace party 
not to have a nominee of the Dalaway for the ruler. 
The subsequent insolent behaviour of the Pajaway 
would also support this view. However nominated, 
Kantirava Narasa began his rule in a.d. 1638. It is 
this personage that first made grants in his own name,'' 
even his predecessor Chama Raja having owned the 
nominal suzerainty of the phantom ruler at Ghanagiri. 
The first inscri[)tion in which an elaborate genealogy 
of the Mysore rulers alone is given, without reference to 
the ruler at Penukonda, is dated A. D. 1046, and is a 
grant by Kantirava Narasa. 

The reign of Kantuava Narasa commences the glorious 
period of the present dynasty, and the three successive 
rulers, himself and his two successors, may be called the 
makers of modern l^f^•sore. The first act of this reisn 
is the dismissal from service of Dalaway ^''ikrama Ra\a', 
and the infliction on him of the condign punishment 



I Vide (leiiealogioal table No. 4. 

■■i Srirangapatna 108, pp. 2;l-:W {Epi. Cnr.). 

3 Palace Ilintory, p. liT. 

19 



290 ANCIENT INDIA 

for his treason against the former ruler. The Palace 
History states that the Dalaway was punished after 
due inquiry and confession by himself ; but Wilks ap- 
pears to be right in saying that he was despatched by 
the hand of the assassin.' For the Dalaway was not 
only a natural son of Betad Chama Raja,^ but also the 
first officer in the State. As such, he must have been 
too powerful and perhaps too popular to be punished 
like an ordinary servant. This seems to have taught 
Kantirava Narasa a good lesson, and we see him through- 
out his reign making vigorous and rather successful 
attempts to curb the power of the Dalaways, so that we 
see the office changing hands a little too often. This 
Tuler is credited by Wilks with having celebrated the 
Dussarah festival on a grand scale and for the first 
time. Whatever the scale of the celebration, he was 
not the first to celebrate the festival, Eaja Wodeyar 
having done it many times during his life.' Kantirava 
Narasa, finding it inconvenient to have a number of 
different coins in circulation, asserted his sovereignty 
over other Wodeyars by establishing a mint and coining 
in his own name.'' This is the first step at unifying 
the loose conglomerate of the petty chieftaincies he 
inherited, and his coins seem to have had currency in 
other parts of South India as well. He is also given 
credit for having made an elaborate survey of the lands 
under the Wodeyars, and, having found the purse-proud 
ryots too troublesome, he took away all that they had 
over and above what was necessary for their bare 
living and occupation.^ This had the desired effect, 
and not only cowed the refractory Wodeyars and 

1 Wilks' History, vol. i, p. 31. 

•i Palace History, p. 59. Niinjaagiid 9, dated 164-3, makes him the son 
of Rija Wodeyar. 
Vide ante p. 286. 
^Palace History, p. 34 ; Wilks' History, vol. i, p. 32, 
!> Wilks' History, vol. i, p. 32 ; Palace History, p. 80. 



KANTIEAVA AND HIS DALAWAYS 291 

other landlords, but enriched Kantirava Narasa beyond 
all expectation. This act of public plunder was not 
questioned in those days, as the people had no other 
means of asserting their rights than that of taking arms 
against the ruler. This latter measure must clearly 
have been to their own ruin, for, in the place of one 
strong master, however unjustifiable his measures, they 
would have had many move plunderers without the 
advantage of protection which the former offered. 
The next step Kantirava Narasa took was to keep the 
Dalaways in check. There were in all ten Dalaways 
in this reign, all of whom, excepting one, held the 
oftice but for a brief space of time. Under a strong 
ruler, the Dalaways had only to play a subordinate 
part, and, -n-henever they attempted to make themselves 
something more, they earned their dismissal. This 
office, the first in importance in the State, had always 
been given to a person intimately connected with the 
ruler either in blood or by association. "Whenever 
the choice fell on relatives, the appointment did not 
prove happy, as they attempted to assume all power 
and to turn the attention of the sovereign solely to 
the enjoyment of home life. AA'henever the appoint- 
ment fell to the lot of some one outside the circle of 
relations, the choice proved happier, because they had 
not the same influence in the palace as the others 
had, and so could be easily dealt with by the ruler. 
Kantirava Naiasa appears to have made a discovery 
of this fact, and, therefore, deviated from the principle 
of choice inaugurated by liaja Wodeyar whose Dala- 
^^a.ys were near connexions in blood. Perhaps Eaja 
Wodeyar could not as yet have trusted others outside 
his family, but Kantirava was much too strong for 
fear of that kind. So, after the fall of his half-brother, 
Dalaway Vikrama Kaya, he appointed Thimmappa 
Nayaka and six others in succession who were, if 
at all connected, very distant relatives. Thus we see 



292 ANCIENT INDIA 

that Kantlrava Narasa always kept all real power in 
his own hands, and so did his two successors. Hence 
the vigour of the administration during the three 
reigns. 

This ruler seems besides to have paid much atten- 
tion to public works. He rebuilt the forts of Sri- 
rangapatna and Mj'sore when they got damaged 
during the siege by Eanadhoola Khan. The details 
given of these forts are not of much importance. 
With the money he obtained, as above mentioned, he 
provided the forts with all that was needful to protect 
them from assault, and appears to have mounted a 
large number of guns over the ramparts. He is 
said to have constructed several tanks, and also the 
canal which runs over the bridge on the southern 
arm of the Kavery bringing fresh water into the fort. 
He also made rich endown^ents to the teruples in 
the province, particularly to those of Sriranganatha 
and of god Narasimha at Srirangapatna. He seems 
to have commanded armies in person, rather than 
trust them into the hands of the Dalaways. He is 
known to have been very remarkable for his strength 
and courage, and his first exploit was the defeat 
of a remarkable prize-fighter at Trichinopoly. Hav- 
ing gone there incognito, he returned, after killing 
the man, without waiting to receive the prize. This 
gave rise to one or two unsuccessful conspiracies 
against his life which may be passed over here. But 
the most important military act of the reign was the 
defence of Srirangapatna against Eanadhoola Khan, 
the general of Bijapur.^ The siege was brought about 
as follows : Kantirava Narasa incited Kenge Hanuma 
of Basavapatna and other Wodeyars of Ikkeri against 
their liege lord, Veerabhadra Na\aka. The disturb- 
ance was promptly quelled by the Ikkeri Nayaka. 

1 Wilks' History, vol. i, p. 31. 



BIJAPUE INVASION 293 

Kenge Hanuma went to Bijapur to solicit the aid 
of the Padisha there.* At this time, there was also 
another fugitive Wodeyar, Channiah of Nagamangala, 
lately conquered by Chama Raja W'odeyar. The 
Padisha sent his most reputed general, Eanadhoola 
Khan, at the head of an army of forty thousand men 
to reinstate Keuge Hanuma and to take Srirangapatna 
if possible. The general having easily succeeded in 
doing the first, was very near accomplishing the 
second as well. Having taken possession of Ikkeri, 
Sira, and Bangalore on his way, he laid siege to 
^Mysore and Srirangapatna simultaneously. Besiegers 
and defenders seem to have fought well, but the loss 
of the former must have been immense, considering 
that, even after having effected a breach, they were 
not able to effect an entry into the fort of Sriranga- 
patna. They were not more successful in Mysore 
either : and the double victory is ascribed to divine 
intervention on behalf of the defenders, thus indicat- 
ing that the Mysoreans were hopeless of victory in 
spite of their stubborn defence. Despite this failure 
to take the forts, Kantirava Xarasa found it impos- 
sible, either to stand another siege or to fight his 
enemy in the open held. So, through the mediation 
of Kenge Hanuma, a peace was concluded which 
left to the jNIysoreans all the country ^ south of 
the Kavery, that on the north of the river being 
made over to Bijapur. But the administration of the 
Bijapur portion was still left in the hands of Kanti- 
rava Xarasa himself, on condition of paying over to 
Bijapur all the surplus revenue after meeting the cost 
of administration. This took place in the year of his 

1 Chikka Deva Raja \'-ivi<drnli. pp. r,?-'-:, et seq. 
Chikka Deva Raja Tijaiiain, inA Canto. 

2 Chikka Deva Raja ratnsavali, pp. 67-S, et scq. 
Chikka Deva Raja Vijayam, 2nd Canto. 
Palace Histcn'y, p. 75. 



294 ANCIENT INDIA 

accession 1638-9. Though Kantlrava Narasa agreed 
to this treaty in his helplessness, he does not seem 
to have thought seriously of fulfilling his promise. 
Eanadhoola Khan, on the other hand, leaving Kenge 
Hanuma as the Bijapur agent, returned to Bijapur, 
his head-quarters. Veerabhadra Nayaka of Ikkeri 
availed himself of this opportunity to avenge his 
wrongs on Eanadhoola Khan, and sent an embassy to 
Bijapur to expose to the Padishah the hollowness of 
the agreement, and the unreliable character of the 
agent. Eanadhoola Khan was suspected, and a royal 
commission was sent to inquire into the affairs of 
Kenge Hanuma, of which Nagamangla Channiah was 
a member. Kenge Hanuma faltered and Kantirava 
Narasa grew defiant. To add to this, Channiah was 
murdered by Kenge Hanuma, as he was the only 
member of the commission conversant with the details 
of the administration.^ Eanadhoola Khan was, in 
consequence, superseded by Khan Khan. This general 
and his successor, Mustafa Khan, were sent in succes- 
sion to take possession of Srirangapatna, the fort of 
which had been completely rebuilt since the first inva- 
sion, but they fared no better than their predecessor. 
A plundering raid undertaken by Hemaji Pundit of 
Bijapur and 'Abdu'Ilah Khan, a general, effected nothing 
of importance except the temporary occupation of 
Turuvekere. Having thus far been on the defensive, 
Kantlrava Narasa could now take the offensive. In 
his aggressive march eastward, he defeated the Bijapur 
forces and took possession of its late conquests. 
Having defeated the Vanangamudi Mudaliar of Kongu, 
he took Samballi, Bomballi, and Satyamangala, having 
previously worsted the Madura Nayaka, his liege lord. 
On the west, he defeated Nanja Eaja Wodeyar of 
Coorg, and after hunting him from place to place, 

1 Palace History, pp. 77. 70. 



DODDA DEVA EAJA 295 

took possession of Periapatam, his capital, and six 
other districts (Ghadis).^ In the north, he extended 
his conquests to the frontiers of Ikkeri, Chitaldroog 
and Sira. After such an eventful reign he died in 1659 
leaving no male issue to succeed him. 

The descendants of Muppin Deva Raja, the third 
brother of Eaja Wodeyar, came in for their share of 
rule now. This Deva Raja had four children, one of 
whom succeeded Kantirava Narasa. But, as to which 
of these four sons succeeded, there is considerable 
difference of opinion among the authorities. The 
Palace Hi.'^tory (p. 91) makes the successor the third 
son, Wilks' the fourth, and Tirumala Aiyangar, a con- 
temporary, the first. In all the inscriptions of this 
ruler's and his successor's time, the latter is recorded 
as the nephew of the former. Tirumala Aiyangar him- 
self makes Dod Deva Raja succeed nominally only, 
while Kempa Deviah, his third brother, was carrying 
on the administration in fact.' The truth appears to 
be, that Kempa Deviah, the third son, was the suc- 
cessor ruling for a short time in the name of his 
eldest brother who must have been old, and then in 
his own name, on condition that the said brother's 
son should succeed him. AVilks and the Palace His- 
tory alike seem to have gone wrong in certain par- 
ticulars about this ruler, and the mistake is accounted 
for by all the four brothers bearing the same name, 
Deva Raja, with a qualifying epithet. Besides the 
fact that Chikka Deva Raja and his father were in 
prison at Tirukanamby is not borne out by any other 
authority. It is, however, mentioned tlaat Chikka 



J Chilika Deva Baja VamsarnU, pp. GS, ct seq. ; Wilks' History, vol. i, 
pp. 33-5 : Palace HUtory, pp. 67, 69. 

■•^ Wilks' Historii, vol. i, pp. 35-6. 

3 Chikka Deva Baja Vamsdvaji, pp. IS, et seq., and Chikka Deva Raja 
Vijayam, iv Canto, Stanzas 170, ct seq. Sriran'^apatna 14, 64 and 
others. Tide Genealogical table Ko. iii. 



296 ANCIENT INDIA 

Deva Eaja was sent away as a youth with his two 
wives to Gundlu, remote from Court, to keep him 
from profligate ways into which he was falling.* His 
father, on the other hand, lived with his younger 
brother at Srirangapatna and then retired to a village 
where he died soon after. Besides, Chikka Deva Eaja 
is recorded to have offered his services against the 
confederacy of rulers besieging Erode, and was well 
nigh entrusted with the command of the army. Be- 
sides this, Chikka Deva Eaja was a mere youth, being 
only twelve years old, when his uncle, a grown-up 
man, succeeded to the throne.^ Thus, then, Kantirava 
Narasa was succeeded by his cousin Kempa Deviah, 
who became Dod Deva Eaja Wodeyar of Mysore. At 
the accession of this ruler to full sovereignty, he was 
the legal successor, his next elder brother having 
died. Chikka Deva Eaja, then a youth, ^Yas recog- 
nized heir-apparent and each of them, the ruler and 
the heir, was guardian to his younger brother. 

The two remarkable, events of this reign were, the 
invasion of the country by Chokkalinga Nayaka of 
Madura, and the siege of Srirangapatna by Sivappa 
Nayaka of Ikkeri, who had but lately overthrown his 
master and established himself in his place. In both 
these events Sriranga Eayal, the fugitive ruler of 
Vijayanagar, was put forth as the leader. Chokkalinga 
Nayaka, having made himself independent ruler of 
Madura, wanted to make the most of the imperial 
fugitive then with him, and advanced in the latter's 
name to Erode, on the south-east frontier of Mysore, 
assisted by Anantoji of Taiijore, Vedoji of Bijapur, 
Golconda, Gingee, and lyyyppah Nayaka (a jagirdar). 
Perplexed by the magnilude of the invading army, 
Dod da Deva Eaja wished to ti-y diplomacy, when 
Chikka Deva Eaja offered liis services to lead the 

1 Chikka Deva Baja Vijayam, Canto v. 

2 Palace History, p. 100. 



INVASIONS UNDER SEIEANGA RATAL 297 

Mysore forces to victory over the disunited mass of 
the invading army. Chokkalinga Nayaka, however, 
on the advice of his ambassador at Srirangapatna re- 
tired to Trichinopoly, leaving his allies to take care 
of themselves. It was, perhaps, true, as Chikka Deva 
Kaja is made to say, that the allied army, though 
large in number, was wanting in discipline ; but one 
cannot but suspect that the ambassador was bribed 
into effectually detaching his master from the coali- 
tion. Chokkalinga Nayaka apart, the others were 
easily defeated by the Dalaways, the superior general- 
ship of Chikka Deva Kaja having been found unne- 
cessary, lyyappa Nayaka was slain, and among those 
defeated was the Brahmin Nayaka of Ginjee.^ The 
^lysore general took the elephant Ivulasekhara and 
its mate as spoils of war, and made the permanent 
conquests of Omalfiru, Erode and Darapuram. Thus 
ended the formidable coalition in the name of the 
last Scion of tbe Vijayanagar family, ^^■ho now betook 
himself to Bednore. 

Sivappah Xayaka, immediately after his accession to 
power, sent an embassy to Mysore pinfessing friend- 
ship to the ruler. This seems to have been refused 
acceptance as beneath the ruler's dignity, coming as it 
did from a usurper. This gave offence, and Sivappah 
Nayaka prepared to lay siege to Srirangapatna. Sri- 
ranga Rayal was now with Sivappah Nayaka, who 
extended his frontiers in the name of the fugitive. 
This invasion was successfully repelled, the Bednore 
Xayaka having been compelled to cede the fortresses 
of Hassan and Sakkarr-patna. Nothing uiore was heard 
of Sriranga Eayal, an.l thus came to an end the once 
glorious dynasty of Vijayanagar. 

Dodda Deva Raja never appears to have led an army 
in person. He was generally pt'acefnlly inclined. He 

1 Srirangapatnii 14, p. 10, Translation (£'pi. Car.). 



298 ANCIENT INDIA 

devoted a great deal of attention to works of charity. 
He is said to have established a number of agraharas 
(villages for Brahmins) and built way-side choultries, 
at short intervals of distance throughout his dominions. 
He constructed several tanks, one of those at Mysore 
among them. His devotion to the goddess Chamundi led 
to the construction of the steps up the hill, and to the 
Basavanandi (a gigantic bull in stone) half way up.* 

His principal items of expenditure of the money 
gained in wars are naively said by the historian ^ 
to have been three : providing (1) ornaments to his 
queens ; (2) endowments to his Brahmin friends ; and 
(•S) rewards to servants for meritorious services. 

After a reign of thirteen years, he died in 1672 in 
a progress through his dominions at Chikkanaikanahalli. 
He was succeeded by his nephew, Chikka Deva Eaja 
Wodeyar, as had been previously agreed upon. The 
reigns of Dodda Deva Eaja an 5 his successor are coeval 
with that of Aurangzeb in Hindustan, and when it is 
borne in mind that Chikka Deva's reign coincided in 
time with the rise of Sivaji and the difficulties of the 
Moghul emperor in the south, it will not be difficult 
to understand how this ruler consolidated his State in 
comparative peace. The Musalman power of Bijapur 
was the most aggressive and troublesome neighbour 
of Mysore. Bijapur expeditions into Mysore have 
been for one reason or other frequent, and this Power 
very often interfered in the affairs of the Wodeyars. 
But now, this and the other Musalman Powers of 
South India had to turn their attention, and to devote 
it all against the advance of Moghul arms in the south, 
and the rise of a more dangerous enemy from amongst 
their own servants, the Maharattas.' Even the line 

1 Palace History, pp. 94, et seq. 
Wilks' History, vol. i, pp. 35-6. 

2 Chikka Deva Raja Vijayavi, end ot the v canto. 

3 Wilks' History, vol., p. 56. 



CHIKKA DEVA RAJA 299 

of conquests of Shaji and his son Sivaji went round 
the Mysore territory and did not go past Bangalore, 
thus leaving Mysore at the angle between their 
northern and southern possessions. At this time it 
was that Chikka Deva Eaja came to the throne of 
Srirangapatna, and worked unostentatiously and cleverly 
at the unification of the petty States which he had 
inherited. 

During the first twenty years of his reign, he 
gradually consolidated the conquests of his predecessors 
and, after reconquering those places which had been 
taken back, he extended his conquests principally in 
two directions. To the south-east he extended his 
conquests as far as Trichinopoly, while to the north- 
west he pushed his frontiers far into the territories 
of his neighbours. Thus he added a large part of 
Tumkur and Kadur districts and a portion of Chital- 
droog to his own dominions. The powerful gaud of 
Magadi was gradually giving way before the onsets 
of more powerful neighbours, and by the acquisition 
of Bangalore in 1687-8, by purchase from Ekoji, the 
half brother of Sivaji, Chikka Deva Kaja Wodeyar 
reduced him to an insignificant position, till later on 
he was completely overthrown during Dodda Krishna 
Raja Wodeyar's reign. His conquests before 1679 
are detailed as follows ' : ' In the east, having conquered 
the Pandya king Chokka in battle, he captured Tripura 
(Trichinopoly) and the wealthy Anandhapuri. In the 
west he subdued the Keladi kings, who came against 
him with the Yavanas, and gained Sakalespura and 
Arakalgudu. In the north, having conquered Eana- 
dhoola Khan, he took Ketasamudra together with 
Kanhikere, Handalageri, Gulur, Tumkur and Hon- 
navalli. Victorious in battle over Mushtika who came 
with Morasas and Kiratas, he seized Jatakanadurga 

1 Srirangapatna 157, p. 35, Translation {Epi. Car.). 



300 ANCINET INDIA 

and changed its name to Chikka Deva Eaya Durga.^ 
The Varaha at Srimushna, which had been broken 
in the Yavana invasion, he brought to Srirangapatna 
out of devotion to Vishnu. He took Maddagiri, Mida- 
gesi, Bijjavara and Chennarayadurga, having conquered 
Thimmappa Ganda and Eamappa Gauda.' By 1686 ' 
Vishnu, incarnate as Chikka Deva, did subdue in 
Panchavati, Dadoji, Jaitaji and others in the form of 
Maharattas. Sambhu lost his valour, Kuttib Shah failed 
in his purpose, Ikkeri Basava was disgraced, Ekoji 
was deserted by all when the mighty Chikka Deva 
Eaja, having cut off all the limbs and slit the noses 
of Jaitaji and Jesvata, set forth for war.' Chikka 
Deva Eaja, however, is more remembered for the ad- 
ministrative reforms he introduced into the government 
of his State. His first minister was the Jain Visha 
Lakshana Pandit of Yelandur, who exercised great 
influence over the Eaja. He was his companion, or 
his tutor, when, as a prince, he was sent to Gundlu 
near Tuukanambi in order to keep the Eaja from 
evil ways. AVhen the prince succeeded his uncle, he 
appointed the Pundit to be his chief minister and, 
under his guidance, he began to reform every depart- 
ment of the administration. It has been already 
mentioned that, in Kantirava's reign, there was a great 
variety in the currency of the realm, and that this 
was put an end to by the introduction of the Kantirava 
coins as the sole currency. There was also a great 
deal of variety in the details of all the departments 
of the administration. This was all done away with, 
and uniformity was introduced by Chikka Deva Eaja. 
The first reform was a revision of taxes which cost 
the life of the Jain Pundit, the responsible author of 
the revision. This affront to the dignity of the ruler 



1 Vide map at the commencement of Wilks' History, vol. i, map. 

2 Srirangapatna 14, p. 11, Translation {Epi. Car.). 



chikkA deva's administration 301 

was more than avenged by a wholesale massacre of 
the fanatical Jungam priests, who were suspected of 
being the authors, or the instigators of the murder. 

From time immemorial the rent of land remained 
fixed, and whatever extra revenue was needed was 
raised by means of taxes. In the reign of Eaja 
AVodeyar, the only sources of revenue, as mentioned 
above, were rents of land, plunder from enemies, and 
tribute from other Wodeyars. Kantirava Narasa is 
said to have taken an extraordinary contribution of 
almost all the movaliles under some pretext or other. 
Thus we see that, though extraordinary contributions 
were demanded, there was nothing like a regular 
system of taxation. In the absence of any precedent 
for enhancing the rent of laud, Chikka Deva Eaja 
Wodeyar deemed it necessary to legalize and systema- 
tize the extra demands by instituting a numbei- of 
taxes. These taxes were none of them the creation 
of Chikka Deva, but old ones which had fallen out of 
use during the disturbed times that intervened. In one 
of the inscriptions, dated a. d. 1:290, we find incidenlally 
a list of taxes collected under Peruniala Danda Nayaka, 
the prime minister of Xarasimha Deva of the Hoysala 
dynasty. On a comparison of this list with those 
given in Wilks' History of Mysore and in the 
Palace History, it will be found that there is a close 
agreement, thus showing that they were only old 
taxes revived. 

When all this was done, Chikka Deva Eaja ^^'ode- 
yar turned his attention to the administrative divisions 
of his territory, and divided tlie whole State, as it 
then existed, into eighty-four ^hadis (divisions) each 
under a subahdar. Some such division appears to 
have already existed, but Chikka Deva Eaja equalized 
their extent. The central administration was divided 
into eighteen departments on the model of the Moghul 
administration. This must have been the result of 



302 ANCIENT INDIA 

the embassy to the imperial Court during the closing 
years of the century, when the Great Moghul, in his 
difficulties, condescended to receive ' a Vakil from the 
Zemindar of Mysore '. This arrangement still sur- 
vives in the public offices, which are popularly known 
as the ' Eighteen Cutcheries '. Chikka Deva Eaja 
Wodeyar kept down the Wodeyars with an iron hand, 
and reduced them to complete dependence on the 
central authority. This was done by means of one 
of his departments, which combined the postal and 
the spy system, and which informed him of all that 
took place even at great distances from Court.^ He 
is said to have introduced a kind of militia police 
system, each hobli, or sub-division of a ghadi, main- 
taining a certain number of men in its service, who 
were to be policemen in ordinary times and soldiers 
in times of war.' In one word, then, Chikka Deva 
introduced order and system where confusion had 
reigned. One other matter should be mentioned here. 
Having introduced uniformity in measures, weights, 
etc., he next introduced the system of paying his 
officials half their salary in money and the other 
half in kind. The convenience of this arrange- 
ment in those days was beyond a doubt. After all 
these reforms, the total revenue derived by Chikka 
Deva Eaja Wodeyar from his territories is said to 
have been seven hundred and twenty thousand pago- 
das. The method of the collection of this amount was 
somewhat peculiar. It was arranged to bring in two 
thousand pagodas every day to the royal treasury at 
Srirangapatna, and unless this daily instalment came 
in Chikka Deva Eaja refused to take breakfast. Thus 
he ensured the collection of the revenue, but how this 
daily amount was raised and what was the actual 



• Wilks' History, vol. i, p. 31. 
3 Palace History, pp. 134-7. 



DOMESTIC ARRANGEMENTS 303 

amount paid by the ryots, it is not possible now to 
determine. This revenue, at three rupees a pagoda, 
would amount to twenty-one lakhs and sixty thou- 
sand rupees, the present revenue of the State (in 1898) 
being one crore and seventy lakhs approximately.^ 
There are not data enough available to institute any 
real comparison between the revenues of the State 
now and those of two centuries ago. 

Chikka Deva Eaja divided the whole class of 
Wodej'ars into two sections of thirteen and eighteen 
families. The first of these sections included the 
royal family itself, which was known to have preserved 
its, blood free from any admixture. This class was 
prohibited from giving a\va>- their girls to members 
of the other class, though permitted to take the girls 
of the latter for junior wives. The second section 
was charged with having contracted marriage alliances 
with people of lower classes, and thus they were 
treated as being inferior to the other.' This classiii- 
cation was reallj' due to the fact that the second class 
of ^^'odeyars comprised the recently conquered 
AVodeyars. Their poverty and caste distinctions may 
also have called for this classification. Nowadays, how- 
ever, no such distinction is kept up, and all classes of 
arasus are regarded as one. 

During the reign of Chikka Deva Eaja, the Dala- 
ways do not seem to have made themselves prominent. 
He was guided by the counsels of a few friends, who 
were unconnected with the royal family, although 
they held high offices. These ministers sometimes 
advised conjointly but very often singly. The chief 
of these, after the murder of the Jain pundit A'isha 
Lakshana of Yelandur, was Tirumala Aiyangar, the 
companion of the Eaja from his boyhood. He is 

1 Falace History, pp, 124-5. 

Wilka" History, vol. i, p. 63. 
3 Palace History, p. 127, 



304 ANCIENT INDIA 

the author of the Kannada works ah-eady, referred to 
but he unfortunately breaks off his narrative when he 
comes to the reign of Chikka Deva Eaja, thus leaving 
his works incomplete. 

Chikka Deva Eaja Wodeyar, in his later days, was 
a staunch follower of the principles of Eamanuja. 
The Yijayanagar viceroys of Srirangapatna were all 
of them Yaishnavas, and Raja Wodeyar seems to have 
been of the same creed, either out of policy or of 
faith, but it cannot, also, be said that all his succes- 
sors were consistently such. Chama Eaja and Dodda 
Deva Eaja do not appear to have been very zealous 
about the sect. Kantirava Narasa devoted himself 
heart and soul to Vishnu. Chikka Deva Eaja, probably 
through the influence of Tirumal Aiyangar, became 
a Vaishnava, perhaps after adopting the principles 
of his first minister the Jain Pundit * for some time. 
In his zeal for the Vaishnavas, he is said to have 
commanded all the Wodeyars to become . Vaishnavas 
too. This order was withdrawn on the strong repre- 
sentation of a nnmber of Wodeyars ^ His devotion to 
Vishnu led to the construction of a temple at Mysore, 
dedicated to the god Sweta Varaha (white boar) of 
iSrimushna. The idol seems to have been roughly 
handled by the Muhammadans in one of their incur- 
sions into the far south, and was in consequence 
brought by Chikka Deva to Mysore .^ 

Thus having consolidated his dominions and intro- 
duced a settled form of administration, he bequeathed 
his kingdom to his dumb son, Kantirava Narasa, in 
1704, just three years before the death of the great 
Moghul Aurangzeb. From the death of Chikka Deva 
Eaja dates the decline of prosperity of the Wodeyars, 



' Wilks' History, vol. i, p. 124. 

2 Palace History, p. 132. 

3 Tide ante p. .300 (quotation). 



THE RISE AT THE DALAWaYS 305 

just as that of his imperial contemporary marks the 
turning point in the history of the Moghuls. 

The succession of a dumb ruler, impossible under a 
less settled government, was brought about to suit the 
father's wish by his friend Tirumala Aiyangar under 
the pretence of a supernatural intervention.' The 
ruler could not have done anything, and thus in this 
reign alone, the reins of government slipped perceptibly 
out of the hands of the sovereign into the hands of 
the Dalaways. These latter officers gradually usurped 
the real power in the State. The Dalaways of this 
reign are Kanthia and his son Nanjaraja ; his son 
Basavaraj and his son Nanja Baja. The last was 
succeeded by the Kalale Veerajiah, the son of Dodda 
Eaja, and the father of the brothers Dalaway Deva 
Raja and Nanja Raja of the later reigns. Under the 
first Dalaway and his son and grandson, the Mysore 
people conquered the two Ballapurs, Midigesi, and 
Sira. It is also during this reign that the Nawab of 
Arcot makes his appearance in Mysore, levying the 
' contribution war '.' Thus having reigned, rather than 
ruled, for nine years he passed away, leaving the suc- 
cession to Dodda Krishna Raja Wodeyar, who was 
more remarkable for reckless charity than for any 
administrative qualities. 

This Krishna Eaja Wodeyar is, in contradistinction 
to one of his successors of the same name, known as 
Dodda Krishna Eaja. He is celebrated in some of 
the inscriptions of his times for large and numerous 
gifts to Sri Vaishriava Brahmans in particular. This 
reign is remarkable for giving the best of opportuni- 
ties to the Dalaway brothers for their ascent to power. 
They eventually became the king-makers of the pro- 
vince. It is, however, worth noting here that the 

1 Palace History, pp. 145-6. 
s Wilts' History, vol. i, p. 140. 

20 



306 ANCIENT INDIA 

time itself was rich in producing usurpers and king- 
makers. This is seen in Delhi, Poona and Mysore. 
The last Dalaway of Kantlrava Narasa was Veerajiah 
of Kalale. The elder of the two sons of this Dalaway 
was Deva Eaja who, in his turn, became Dalaway and 
retained the office almost till the usurpation of Haidar 
'AH. This Dalaway, whose sister was one of the 
wives of the Eaja, soon contrived to fill up important 
offices with his own people, and, by pampering the 
king with all conceivable luxuries, managed to con- 
centrate all real power in the State in his own hands. 
The rise of this person into prominence ultimately 
brought about the downfall of the dynasty, though 
for the time being it made the administration some- 
what vigorous. The most important events of this 
reign, other than the above, are two invasions of the 
province ending in the siege of Srirangapatna and the 
final overthrow of the Gaud of Magadi. The first of 
these two invasions was undertaken by a confederacy 
of newly created Nawabs. The Mysore territory was 
surrounded by the dominions of Nawab Sa'adatu'llah 
of the Karnatic Paenghat and Ameenkhan of the 
Karanatic Balaghat. Besides these, there were the 
Nawabs of Kurpa, Kurnool, and Savandi. There was 
also a Maharatta neighbour Siddoji Ghorepara of 
Gooti. Srirangapatna was laid siege to by all these 
six together, and Krishna Eaja bought them all off 
by the payment of seventy-two lakhs of rupees to 
be equally divided among them, and twenty-eight 
lakhs in addition given to the negotiator of the peace,^ 
Sa'adatu'llah Khan, though the Palace History claims 
a victory to Mysore in this case as in the next. 
But the elaborate copperplate grants ^Yhich dwell at 
great length on the other virtues of Krishna Eaja 
make no mention of any such victory, and a victory 

1 Wilks' History, vol. i, pp. 141-2. 



DODDA. KRISHNA BA.TA 307 

is the last thing to be silently passed over by the pane- 
gyrist.^ Besides this, the victories of the other sov- 
ereigns are carefully mentioned in the same grants, one 
of which makes mention of the victories of Dalavs'ay Deva 
Raja.^ The author of one of the grants referred to 
is Tirumala Aiyangar, v7ho must, at least, have lived 
up to 1729, whereas the dates of these tvfo invasions, 
as given by the Palace History, are 1725 for the 
confederate invasion, and 17'27 for the Maharatta 
invasion. So in both these the Mysoreans must have 
had the worst of it.^ The second expedition was 
undertaken by Baji Eao at the head of the Maha- 
rattas, and the Peshwa was likewise bought off by 
Krishna Eaja. To redeem these failures Dalaway 
Deva Eaja succeeded in taking possession of the 
impregnable rock of Savandroog, the stronghold of 
the Gaud of Magadi. The Gaud himself was taken 
prisoner and allowed to die in the state prison of 
Srirangapatna.^ In spite of this, however, the weak- 
ness of the Mysore State to defend itself against 
foreign invaders was proved beyond a doubt by the 
two invasions mentioned above, and this discovery 
led to a great deal of foreign complications, which 
facilitated the upward course, first of the Dalaway 
brothers and secondly of Haidar 'Ali. Having reigned 
for eighteen years Dodda Krishna Eaja died without 
an heir in 1731. Dalaway Deva Eaja, with the con- 
sent of the widow of Krishna Eaja, who, however, was 
not his sister, placed a certain Chama Eaja, connected 
but remotely with the ruling family, on the throne- 
The legitimate line of rulers thus came to an end here, 
and Chama Eaja had no more claim to the throne 
than what he derived from the nomination of the 

1 Srirangapatna 64 and 100. 

2 Tirutnakudlu Narasipur 63, pp. 79-80 (Translation). 

3 Srirangapatna 64, p. 24 (Translation Epi. Car.). 
« Wilks' History, vol. i., pp. 140-3. 



308 ANCIENT INDIA 

widow and the Dalaway. This personage was not 
long in showing himself to be very far from being the 
docile instrument of the Dalaway that he had agreed 
to- become, when he was nominated ruler. He was, 
herefore, made the victim of an intrigue and sent to 
Kabbaladroog with his family. This time the Dalaway 
was careful to place an infant three years old on the 
throne to avoid the recurrence of the difficulties. This 
nomination was in perfect keeping with the projects 
of king-makers generally, the real rulers of Mysore 
now being Dalaway Deva Eaja and Sarvadhikari, 
Nanja Eaja, the Dalaway's uncle. On the retirement 
of this latter officer, the appointment was conferred 
upon Kara Chnri Nanja Eajiah (the brother of the 
Dalaway), who, later on, became the father-in-law of 
the infant ruler Immadi Krishna Eaja Wodeyar. The 
administration was carried on by these two brothers 
with the nominal Pradhan Venkatapati of Canniam- 
badi, with considerable vigour till, owing to the ad- 
vanced age of Deva Eaja, the brothers exchanged 
offices. This change led to a misunderstanding be- 
tween the brothers, which eventually proved fatal to 
their power, and thus paved the way for the rise of 
Haidar 'AH, who became the de facto ruler in a. D. 
1761. Thus was brought to an end the rule of the 
Wodeyars in Mysore, till it was revived under the 
aegis of the British power after the fall of Sriranga- 
patna in a. d. 1799. The power of the Wodeyars thus 
passed through all the stages of decay that the Moghul 
rule underwent, but it had the good fortune to be 
revived which was denied to the other. 

We have now traced the gradual growth of the 
small principality of Eaja Wodeyar until it became a 
compact and powerful State under Chikka Deva Eaja. 
We have also made a rapid survey of the decline of 
fortune of the ruling family, until the State passed 
out of its hands into those of a foreigner. 



GENEALOGICAL TABLE 309 

I. WILKS' GENEALOGICAL TABLE. 

Vijaya., (Hadana and Ivfirugahalli.) 

Chama Raja. (Arberal = SLx-fingered.) 

Betad Chama Raja. ,, ,, (1507.) 

I 1 I 

Appan Timmaraj Krishna Bole Ohamaraj 

Hemanhalli. (ICembala). (llvsore.) 

i ' 1 

I I 

^ f ^ 

: I. II 

Betad Raja Muppiu Devaraj. Here Ohamaraj. 

Wodevar Wodeyar I 

(1576 to 1578). (1578 to 1617). | 

Kantirava f ^ (^ I I ' 

Narasa | j I I I I 

(1638 to 1659). Narasa. Immadi Dod 2nd 3rd Kempa 

I Raja Devayya. Devayya 

I (Posthumous) ' 

Chamaraja (1637-8). 
(1617 to 1687). 



Cbikka 

Dovaraj 

(1672 to 1674). 



(1659 to 1672). 
Dod Devayya. 



Kantlravaraj (1704 to 1714). 
Dod Krishnaraj (1714 to 1731). 

1 

Two usurpers Ohamaraj (1731 to 1734). 
Chikka Krishnaraj (1734 to 176(1). 



ANCIENT INDIA. 



-DALAWAY GRANT No. 63, TIEUMAKUDLU NAKSIPUE 

{Epi-Karnd taka.) 

Chamaraja. 



r \ 1 

I I I 

Timmaraja. Krishnaraja. Betad Chamaraja. 



(' 

I 
Kantlrava Narasa 

I 

I 



r — 

Immadi Raja. 

'1 
J 



1 
I 
Devarajendra. 

I 

f ' 

I 



Chikka Devaraj. 

Kantlrava Narasa. 

I 
Krishna Raja Nripathi. 

Krishna Raja. 



Raja Wodeyar. 
Narasa Raja. 
Chamaraja. 



GENEALOGICAL TABLE 311 

III. — Srirangapatam, Nos. 64 and 100 op Epigraphia 
Karnataka. 

(Gopjnr plate (H and luscription 100 of Srirangapatam.) 

Yadu. 
Betad Chamaraj (Anthcnibara Ganda). 



Timmaraj. Krishna Bhupati. Chama Nripati, 

(Victor over Revati Venkata). 



{' 



I I I I 

RSjadhi Eaja. Betad Chamaraja. Devarajendra. Chamaraja. 



Amrithamba= Dod Chikka Devaraj. Marl Deva. 

Dc\araj. Devarajendra. 



I 1 

Devamamba= Chikka Kantlrava Mahlpati. 

Devendra. 



Kantlrava Narasa = Oheluvaiaraamba. 



Kiishnaraj = Drviijammah and eight others (Hence the eight names of 
eight tanks at Melukoto). 



312 



ANCIENT INDIA 



IV.— PALACE HISTORY. 
Yadu Raja (1399 to 1423). 



Here Betad Ghamaraja Wodeyar (1423 to 1458). Ghamaraja Wodeyar. 

1 
Timmaraja Wodeyar (1458 to 1478). 

Here Ghamaraja Wodeyar (1478 to 1518). 

Betad Ghamaraja (1513 to 1552). 



I i I 

Timmaraja (1552 to 1571). Krishna Raja. Bole Ghamaraja 

(1571 to 1576). 



1 



Betad Raja Muppin Devaraj. Chamaraj. 

Ghamaraja Wodeyar. I 

(1576 to 1578). (1578 to 1617). | 







laja Wodeyar. 


1 

1 

Kantira"a 

Narasa 

(1688 to 1659). 


( 





1st. 2nd. Dodda Devaraja 

(1659 to 1672). 



I 

Ghikka Kantlraya 

Narasa Betad Nanjraja Ghama Imrnadi Devarnja Narasa 

Raja. Wodeyar Raja. Raja (1672 to 1704). 



(1617 to 1638). 



Kantirava Narasa (r.704to 1713). 



Chama Raja Dod Krishna Raja (1713 to 1731). 

(1617 to 1637). Both of these adopted f Ghama Raja (1731 to 1734). 

by < 

the widow of Dod Krishna Raja. (Ghikka Krishna Raja (1734 to 1761). 



GENEALOGICAL TABLE 



313 



V. — THE GENEALOGICAL TEEE ADOPTED IN THIS CHAPTEB. 



Yadu (1399 to 1423). 



r 

Here Betad Chamaraj (1423 to 1458). 

Timmaraja Wodeyar (1458 to 1478). 

I 

Here Chamarajarasa (1478 to 1513). 

I 

Betad Chamaraj (1513 to 1552). 

I 
f \ 



Chamaraja. 



Timmaraj (1552 to 1571). 



Krishnaraj 



Bole Chamaraja 
(1571 to 1576). 



Betad Wodeyar 
(1576 to 1578). 



RSjadhi Raja 
(1;)7>'^ to 1617). 



I 

Betad 

Chamaraja. 

I 



Muppin 
Devaraj. 



r 1 \ I 1 

Narasa Raja. Betad Nanjraj. Chamaraj. Immadi Raja 
I Wodeyar. (1637-8). 

Chamaraja Wodeyar 

(1617 to 1678). 



Raja Wodeyar 
(died youDg). 



Kantirava Narasa 
(1638 to 1659). 



f T \ 1 

Dod Devaraj. Chikka Devarajendra. Kempa Devayya Mari Deva 
I (1651.) to 1672). 



Chikka Devaraj (1G72 to 1704). 

Kantirava Narasa (1704 to 1713). 

I 
Dod Krishna Raj (1713 to 17:U). 



"1 



Kantirava Narasa. 



Chamaraja 
<1731 to 1734). 



Chikka Krishnaraja 
(1734 to 1761). 



CHAPTEE XII 

THE VALVE OF LITEBATUEE IN THE 
CONSTRUCTION OF INDIAN HISTOBY 

It is a notorious fact that Indian literature has few 
professed histories, and the inference seems warranted 
that the historical faculty received no development in 
the country. History, as we understand it, is entirely 
a product of the nineteenth century even in Europe. 
Works which constitute good material for history have 
been many, whatever their shortcomings from the 
point of view of the modern historian. It is in the 
sense of professed histories, which may be subjected 
to criticism and used as material, that histories are 
wanting- in India. 

So the problem of constructing the history of India, 
as a whole, or of any part of it, is subject to this 
additional defect. Defective it may be and much 
more so than in European countries. Still there is 
ample material yet left, despite much vandalism which 
may yield good results if exploited systematically. His- 
torical material in India as elsewhere, may be grouped 
into three classes : — 

1. ArchsBological (including architecture). 

2. Epigraphical (including numismatics). 

3. Literature. 

Of these the first goes back to the earliest times 
reached in this country by historical research. What 
can be gathered from this source is, however, scanty, 
though reaching to the earliest antiquity. The second 



SOUTH INDIAN LITEBATUEB 315 

does not go beyond the period of the Asoka Inscrip- 
tions. For periods anterior to this, we are thrown 
upon literature only, both Vedic and Buddhistic. 
With respect to South India also archa?ological evi- 
dence may take us farther back, but the epigraphical 
does not go back beyond the beginning of the Christian 
Era except for a few Asoka and Satavahana records. 
Whether literature \\ill take us beyond this limit 
may well be regarded doubtful as we are at present, 
but careful research in this direction may take us 
past this limit and may yield us results beyond our 
expectations. I have not set myself to inquire here 
whether it is so, nor whether all literary evidence has 
been brought to bear on historical research. I shall 
only try to show that the inquiry will not be in 
vain if it is made. 

This inquiry necessarily leads us to the question 
of languages. Por any work of research concerning 
India, Sanskrit is indispensable. This is clear from 
what we know of the pre-Buddhistic period of Indian 
history. When we come to deal with South India, 
Tamil becomes equally essential. Of the other Dra- 
vidian languages, Telugu does not take its available 
literature much anterior to the eleventh century a. d., 
and this literature seems to be modelled upon San- 
skrit entirely. Kanarese has certainly a more ancient 
literature. A work of the ninth century undoubtedly 
is the Kavirajamarga of Nripatunga. If a work of 
poetry like this had been written in the ninth 
centm-y, we might presume that there was an amount 
of anterior literature to require this. Malayalam 
seems to have grown out of Tamil in the early 
centuries of the Christian Era. But Tamil which, 
according to some, is the mother of these three, goes 
back to a far greater antiquity. It has -a wealth of 
literature for particular periods which is worth study 
on scientific lines. This body of literature, independent 



316 ANCIENT INDIA 

of Sanskrit and yet so closely interwoven with it, 
deserves well of those who wish to be among the 
educated of their country's sons. It may not be all 
who can afford to study it, but those who can ought 
not to neglect to do so. How is this vast literature, 
both Sanskrit and Dravidian, to be exploited to any 
purpose, and what is likely to be the utility of such 
exploitation for history ? 

I began with the statement that history depends 
upon archaeology, epigraphy and literature for its ma- 
terials. The work on the first two has been considered 
to belong to the province of Government, for it is 
beyond the resources of private work, though private 
agency may do much if facilities are provided. Work 
upon the third is so far left entirely to the patriotic 
lovers of literature. It is not literature as literature 
that is my concern here, but literature so far as it 
can be of use for the making of history. 

That literature can provide for history needs no proof 
now. The study of the literature of Pali, the verna- 
cular of Northern India in the centuries before Christ, 
opened to us a fresh vista into the domain of the his- 
tory of ancient India. Will the Dravidian languages 
similarly open another vista ? It is this question I 
shall attempt to answer here, confining my observa- 
tions to Tamil literature, the oldest and the most volu- 
minous of these southern tongues, as they are at 
present. That a systematic study of this literature 
will yield results of great value even where one least 
expects it, I can illustrate from the following incident 
in the life of Eamanuja, the Vaishnava apostle. 

Tradition states, and the Guruparamparais record, 
that Eamanuja constructed the temple at the town of 
Tirupati, and enshrined the image of Govindaraja there. 
This image was believed to have been the image of 
Govindaraja at Chidambaram, pulled out of the temple 
and cast into the sea by a certain Chola king, called 



CtOVINDABAJA temple at CHIDAMIiAKAM 317 

Krimikanta Ly the Yaisbnavas, a persecuting Chola. 
So far as I know at present, there seems to be no 
inscription bearing upon tbi,^ question, and the matter 
was believed to be traditional and nothing more. It 
was asserted in a court of law that the existence of 
the Vishnu shrine at Chidambaram was due to the 
pious fraud of a Vaishnava Brahman, who planted the 
image of A'ishnu overniglit, and duped the people, who 
woke up one morning to find the image of Vishnu 
in the Saiva Holy of Holies. If the witness himself 
believed in it, as in honesty we are bound to grant 
he did, he must have been a credulous person indeed. 
We are not concerned with his credulity or otherwise, 
but we are with the credibility of the tale. Stanza 
86 of the Tiruchchirrambalal-Ji-orai of Manikkavasagar 
runs as follows : — 

Lfjii-'Si—ii ^rrsarisf- siremuirenr LfeSeSesarQ Ljds/Stuir 
^ iTikiSQ i—ssr ^Gd-ssr rStauu^^m esraiSj-a, Qaasresfiirem® 
SffEsi—i fiirQ^&!TSO SIT I— I— wpguiks^m aiTLLuf-Qt^eir^ 
enjriiiQi—ii ^irssrrSso'ieti luijoueo QpmrSedLD LDinuisiQ<sx!T. 

The above stanza states in the words of the devotee 
that Vishnu was lying in the court yard of the temple 
at Chidambaram supplicating Siva, when, in response to 
^'ishnu's prayer, after fruitlessly penetrating the earth 
to discover the feet of Siva, he displayed one foot, that he 
might show the other as well. This is a clever descrip- 
tion of the relative positions and postures of the two 
deities in the temple. Natesa is in his self-forgetful 
dance with his right foot lifted up. Govindaraja is in 
his bhogasayana (reclining posture). 

Kulasekhara Alvar states regai-ding the same Govin- 
daraja as follows : — 

Q^ii^eifliTajiTuj LneoinBansQfcr QfQgi^em Q,fiT'Se\i^ 

efrij^esmirs Qefrir^QpiSjir uSireu Qu^^ 
wssSiLBsSimr fsara^ioiriB^ euisiLDirsBr (rrfQesr. 



•318 ANCIENT INDIA 

The statement here is that Vishnu was recumbent on 
a throne, with the three thousand Brahmans chanting 
his praise in the Chitrakuta of Thillai city, surrounded 
by cool and shady gardens, smiling with flowers and 
tender shoots. 

Next comes what Tirumangai Alvar says about the 
same : — 

BSUthQuirek^ Qp^glio LDensfliLjm QsireswiTii^ 

uemi—LDekssreuir ue\]e\>sniT Qsnasru sssfti^ 
QfiiQuTeirLDessfl LDiri—iEJsar (^ipii^ fie\j'?eo^ 
^0f&^ir s^i—(i^.3=ms)i Q-s=^uSa!rsQetr. 
e^(TKmir si—^lL Qt—ik^ir ^eui^ 



QpsmpujiTGO ensssriEiseii euemiEJaiTUJ Qfir^^ 

The first extract simply indicates that a Pallava king 
made some costly dedications to the temple. The 
second that Vishnu was in a lying posture on his ser- 
pent couch. The third that the three thousand of 
Thillai worshipped according to orthodox rights the 
God of Gods. 

Thus, then, in the days of the two Alvars and Manik- 
kavasagar, the Vishnu shrine occupied the position that 
it does now. Let us proceed then to a later period, 
the period of the later Cholas. The Chola decline may 
be dated as commencing with the death of Kulottunga 
Chola I. He was succeeded by his son Vikramachola ; 
and he by his son Kulottunga II, who was succeeded 
by Eaja Eaja II. The poet called Ottakkuttan, there 
are reasons for believing, was a contemporary of all the 
three. Among the works ascribed to him are three 
ulas, as they are called, pieces of conventional compo- 



KULOTTUNGA II, UPROOTS GOVINDA IMAGE 319 

sition celebrating a patron as he passes in triumph 
through the streets of his capital, appealing to his vanity 
by elaborate descriptions of the eii'ects produced upon 
the lady folk of the city. I take the following extracts 
from the Kulottungachdlaiiuld and Bajardjamda regard- 
ing the Vishnu shrine at Chidambaram : — 

^QjesB 3nrlr»(T^^ mirfruu — iseuS^Q^iTiui 
Qfi^fip SQfmjsi—sii Qsfr&)'ie\>iiSs\)ir enrii^s 
s;,-^es>^s seifls^irs (^uilSlLQu — QuirprSl^syQiLp 

Quirasrsisflp (^uSpfSu qpwiSIp (gg)ii-Du'2e!!T^^ 
ipesraifii) aLsodEffiPso ipjIigaS'^^ — Ccffdrcaf 

These two passages indicate in no uncertain terms that, 
in carrying out the renovation of the temple, Kulottunga 
found the opportunity to get rid of the Vishnu image 
which was obnoxious to his piety. That the Vishnu 
shrine was what was particularly offensive to this 
pious devotee is clear from the expression Qpsaasflp 
si—eSIsi) Qpifi(^eS^fi, which means ' submerging in the 
sea, the former house". This very idea of the author 
and the same act of his zealous patron find expres- 
sion in another work, the Takka ydgapparani : — 
QpesrrSlp Qi—ik^ S(T^wsi—eo Quiriu (Lpasr'^esTS si—io 

LDOsrgui Qi—skissmi— Qsrremi—ei) Qupp wss^ 

QLDQKsaea cuni^^^euQesT — 

It is clear then that Kulottunga II, the grandson of 
the first of that name, perpetrated this act of pious 
hostility to the Govindai-aja shrine, which led to the 
establishment by Eamanuja of the sb]-ine at Tirupati 
town. 



320 ANCIENT INDIA 

Last of all is a Sanskrit extract which lets us know 
how the Govindaraja temple came to be again where 
it is at present. It is a quotation from the Prapannam- 
ritram of a certain Anantarj'a, a descendant of Andra- 
purna who was a contemporary of Eamanuja. It is a 
life of Eamanuja at the end of which the author of 
the life gives his own genealogy. In the course of 
this pedigree occurs the following passage : — 

Freely rendered, it means that Eamaraya, who came 
after Krishnaraya, once went to Chandragiri taking 
with him his Guru Tatarya. Mahacharya (Dodda- 
yacharya as he is popularly called) of the Vadulagotra 
at the height of fame for learning, was then in resid- 
ence at Ghatikachallam (Sholingar). He wished to 
restore the temple of Govindaraja at Chidambaram 
(Chitrakuta), which had been uprooted by the Chola 
Krimikanta. Overcoming in argument the invincible 



RAMARAYA RESTORES GOVINDA TEMPLE 321 

Saivas, this great one in learning restored the Govin- 
daraja temple at Chitrakiita with the assistance of 
Eamaraya. This Govindaraja thus established by 
Mahacharya is even yet to be seen at Chidambaram. 
These are isolated facts gathered from a number of 
works, showing no obvious connexion with each other. 
How are they to be brought together and used to 
serve the purposes of history '? 

The first essential to history is chronology. If the 
facts are not placed in the order in which I have 
placed them, they will be unintelligible ; and to place 
them in this order more is required than mere 
individual ingenuity. If the last fact of the above 
series could only be placed before its predecessor, the 
contention of the recent litigants would find some 
justification. "Unfortunately, however, for them I am 
not marshalling here facts in law for a judge and 
jury, but facts of history for a critical student. The 
investigation of the historian ought first of all to be 
chronological. 

The date of Manikkavasagar cannot yet be regarded 
as a settled fact of history. Varying dates are as- 
cribed to him, as often with as without evidence. 
Some refer him to the fifth century a.d. ; others to 
the ninth century ; others again to an antiquity not 
definitely ascertainable. That Sundaramurtinayanar 
does not include him among the Tiruttondar is one 
fact all are agreed upon ; and that he was a con- 
temporary of a Varagunapandyan is also tradition 
accepted on all hands. The epigraphist would keep 
him to the Varaguna of the eighth century after Christ. 
The literary critic sees quotations and adaptation from 
Manikkavasagar in the works of the earlier adiyars of 
the Saiva hagiology. That his works were well known 
in the thirteenth century, and the work that readily 
challenged comparison with those of Manikkavasagar 
was the Tiruvbymoli of Nammalvar are in evidence in 
■21 



322 ANCIENT INDIA 

the following lines of the Satagoparandadi, ascribed 
to Kamban, who, there are good reasons for believing, 
lived in the twelfth century A. D. 

SIpwiT isSsaojuSEi QsirrriTiiSirw Sjhaeuis Q^a&&)iTQu!rtjj 
wpeurr ^tuirQs^rrsarenr sullffffi ld(ild60i1 LneaisuuL/^/wa 
■speurrs Sl^uuitej QsmQup Qsuir^ikiseir easeueiluQiU — 
In this, as is evident, Kamban compares the thou- 
sand of Nammalvar to a thousand milch-cows, both to 
the renounced and the worldly ; and the Tiruvasagam 
to cows which give no milk. We are not concerned 
with the judgement here, but only with the fact of 
the case, although it must be said in passing that 
this prince of poets in Tamil is far from being a 
fanatical sectarian; for he says in the Bamayana: — 
^irear^s ^eossirii^ euifluj^sesr sisarQ/srazrag 

uns^Qs^ek rosai—euifliu uiflCoS^Quireo 
As it is impossible to attain salvation for those who 
dispute in ignorance that Hara is the greater or the 
world measuring Hari, etc' 

Regarding the two Alvars the dates are no more 
fixed than for Mauikkavasagar. They are both of them 
anterior to the middle of the eleventh century a.d.i 
inscriptions of which date refer to the works of these 
Alvars as having been held in high esteem. One of 
the decades of Tirumangaialvar refers to the occupation 
of Kanchi by a king called Vairameghan : — 
LDebresrsueir Q(r>/'emes>L^LuiTQsrresr eijemiEi(gi§e<r 

lOfii^LDirleo euuSjrQwasir 
^smsnsilsisir Ljaifi(^ifiifi sffSiujiLi— i^ujsir^firr^ — 
The first being, that is in Attabhuyagaram in Kanchi 
that was surrounded by the forces and fame of 
Vairameghan of long garland and high crown, entitled 
to the respectful submission of the Pallava, the ruler 
oi the Tondas (people of Tondamandalam). 



DATES OF THE' REFERENCES 323 

The only date so far known for Vairamegha Dantidurga 
of the Eashtrakuta dynasty is A. D. 754. The latter 
half of the eighth century a.d, may, therefore, be taken 
as the age of Tirumangaialvar.' The earlier quotations 
would then refer us to the eighth and ninth centuries 
A.D. at the latest for the existence of the Govindaraja 
temple at Chidambaram. 

The next batch of references leads to the inference 
that it was Kulottunga II, the son of Vikramachola 
and the father of Eajaraja II a.d. [circa) 1133 to 1150, 
who uprooted the shrine in his pious work of renova- 
tion of the great Saiva temple. This is clear from the 
quotations themselves which are from the works of 
a contemporary author. 

Lastly, the Sanskrit quotation refers the reconstruc- 
tion to Doddayacharya through the good offices of a 
Eamaraja who ruled after Krishnaraya. It was in 
this connexion that this acharya came in contact 
with Appaiya Dikshita, the great South Indian scholar 
and philosopher. In his commentary on Vedanta 
Desika's Yddavabhyitdaya, this scholar says that he 
took up the work of a commentary on this kavya at 
the instance of Pinna Thimma, grandson of Eamaraja. 
The Eamaraja referred to is clearly the one that fell 
at Talikota. There is nothing very improbable in 
Appaiya Dikshita's having been contemporaneous with 
Doddayacharya or Eamaraja on the one hand, and 
with Pinna Timmaraya on the other. Besides the 
•writer of the Prapannamritam itself was a disciple of 
Kumaratatarya, popularly Kotikanyakadanam Tata- 
char, whose patron was Vankatapatiraya, who ruled 
till A. D. 1614. It must therefore be sometime before 
A. D. 1565 that the temple was restored. 

We are thus able to obtain an account of the vicis- 
situdes of this temple for about five centuries at least. 

1 Vide Chapter XIX. 



324 ANCIENT INDIA 

I have taken this as a simple illustration of what his- 
torical information can be gained even from apparently 
unconnebted literature. The facts here are all the 
more reliable, even including the last, as they are mere 
incidental references. It will now appear that there 
can be no history without chronology, and the at- 
tempts to fix the dates of works and authors, which- 
to many appear absurd, is of the essence of historical, 
research. 

What is wanted, therefore, now for historical research. 
is a systematic and organized study of literature, both: 
vernacular and Sanskrit, in a way that will facilitate 
work both literary and historical. This work cannot 
be done by one man all through for his own require- 
ments. He will require the collaboration of a number 
of others. A student engaged in historical research 
has to keep himself in close touch with the archaeolo- 
gical, epigraphical and literary work that may be 
going on, and must be something of an archaeologist 
and epigraphist himself ; but that any one should be 
all the three by himself is beyond human possibility in 
most cases. This is very often recognized, and the two 
branches are held to be distinct. In point of litera- 
ture also — I am concerned with literature only as an 
auxiliary to history — the collection of manuscripts and 
documents, and the bringing out of good and critical 
editions of works ought to be regarded as quite a dis- 
tinct branch. Most editions of the classics published 
in India till quite recently, both in Sanskrit and 
the vernaculars, were uncritical editions. It is the 
Bombay Sanskrit Series, that set the fashion for Sanskrit. 
Our esteemed countryman, Mahamahopadyaya Swami- 
nathaiyar, has given us a number of remarkably well- 
edited texts of important Tamil works. The advan- 
tage of this kind of editing is quite apparent. The 
various readings are given for the reader to choose 
from ; the variety of comments are also noted. When 



CRITICALLY EDITED TEXTS 325 

this is well and accurately done the text editor has 
■rendered good service to the historian. What then is 
the utility of such editions '? To give only an example 
or two. The learned editor of the Silappadhikaram, 
Pundit Swaminathaiyer, has taken care to give in a 
footnote thirteen lines at the beginning of the second 
canto, found only in one manuscript among those he 
consulted. He remarks in another place that manu- 
scripts found in the same quarter have been the most 
reliable in many particulars. These thirteen lines 
refer to Karikala as the ruler at the time, and state 
that the PatHnappdlai had been dedicated to him by 
the author. There are references to the same incident 
in other vyorks but far later in point of time. 

Similarly in stanza fourteen of Kalidasa's MegJiadrda, 
where there is the reference to Diunaga, it struck me 
that the interpretation of the whole, as applied to 
Dinnagacharya, was forced, for in the alternative inter- 
pretation the commentator Mallinatha has to omit a 
part of a compound word. The pundits whom I con- 
sulted consider that that is no bar to the slesha. I 
understand now from a Bombay edition of the text 
and commentary that Hemadri does not countenance 
the interpretation. The result is that the estimate of 
Kalidasa's age, based on his contemporaneity with 
Dinnaga, falls to the ground so far. Hemadri may 
be right or Mallinatha ; but those who read with a 
view to building up a hypothesis in history ought 
to have an opportunity of knowing both the com- 
mentaries. Then he formulates his hypothesis at his 
own risk. 

Further down Mallinatha lays down that the three 
•slokas which he comments on are interpolations. He 
■does not choose to tell us why he thinks so, though 
his reasons would have been valuable. There is a 
great and important amount of work to be done, in 
the way of examining critically the texts with a view 



326 ANCIENT INDIA 

to distinguish the genuine from the spurious part of 
it. Associations and private organizations may well 
pay some attention to this line of work. The Govern- 
ment have organized their archaeological department 
for work in archaeology and epigraphy. They are 
also devoting some attention to the collection and 
cataloguing of manuscripts. Associations, like the 
South Indian, may well supplement the work of 
Government by directing some of its energies both 
material and mental to critical work upon these ma- 
terials. The initiative may be taken by the Associa- 
tion ; but the result depends entirely upon the support 
and encouragement it receives at the hands of the 
more intelligent and enlightened of our countrymen. 
The South Indian Association at Madras ought to 
take in this particular the place of the Asiatic Socie- 
ties elsewhere ; and if those of us who are in a posi- 
tion to do something for our country make up our 
minds to contribute towards the fulfilment of this 
laudable ambition, it will not be long before the 
South Indian Association will achieve it. 

It is alleged, often with truth, that the historian 
reads his thoughts and feelings into the waitings of the 
past. This no doubt is a defect that he has to guard 
himself against. If the record of the past is placed 
in his hands in an accurate form he ought to have 
no excuse for making such mistakes. The defect arises 
from an insufficiency of information which would enable- 
him to form a complete idea of the men and of 
the period he is dealing with. This is a point that 
the late Professor Maitland seems to have laid great 
stress on in the course of his lectures. It is in regard 
to oaths and the influence that they exercised on 
truthfulness that the Professor took occasion to make 
the remark. This defective appreciation is consider- 
ably in evidence among a class of scholars engaged 
in research work. It is traceable to the importing of 



ILLUSTRATION PROM THE BHIHATKATHA 327 

our own ideas and the circumstances about us to 
periods of which we have either no, or have no means 
of having, full information. To illustrate the position 
I go back to the Brihatkathd. The work was written 
in Paisachi and appears to have been held in high esteem 
by successive writers of note in Sanskrit literature, 
at least from the days of Dandi to the age of the 
Kasmiriaa Somadeva. We have four different versions 
of it as our only source of knowledge of the work. 
The Kathdsarithsdgam of Somadeva, is professedly a 
translation ; Brihatkathdmanjari is a collection of stories 
from the Brihatkathd; a third version or collection 
was obtained from Nepal ; and lastly a Tamil trans- 
lation of it, which is of an antiquity prior to that of 
the now known Saiigam works. Professor Speyer, a 
Dutch scholar, who has made a critical study of the 
Eathdsarithsdgara has, on the strength of the superna- 
tural powers ascribed to Nagarjuna in the work, referred 
the Briliatkathd to a period between the third and 
the fifth century a. d. This is because the Professor 
thinks that people woald hardly have believed in 
supernatural power unless a considerable interval had 
elapsed. The inference would certainly be warranted, 
if all people were rational and sceptical to an equal 
degree at all periods of history. All the world over, 
and in regard to all religions, miracles play an im- 
portant part at a particular stage of development ; and 
people are not wanting in the enlightened twentieth 
century who have full faith in occultism and spiritual- 
ism. This it is that makes several Indian works seem 
ridiculously absurd to European scholars. If they could 
appreciate the influence a belief in transmigration 
exerts upon the minds of simple people, and how 
closely interwoven it is in all the varying belief of the 
people in India, they would see that what strikes 
them as absurd is quite obviously believable even by 
contemporaries. That this has, as a matter of course. 



328 ANCIENT INDIA 

been the case could be proved, if Tamil literature 
and literary tradition were called into requisition. 

There are several works in Tamil called mahakavj-as. 
The translation of the Brihatkathd, a sirukappyam or a 
minor kavya called Udayanan kadai or Pentngadai or 
even simply kadai, is believed to be the work which 
gave the authority for the use of the word kavya. 
This work is ascribed to the period of the middle 
6ai)gam, that is, anterior to the third Safigam, the 
works of which we have in some number. I have 
put forward my arguments for referring the third 
Saigam to the earlier centuries of the Christian era ; 
hence this work ought to be referable to a period 
coeval with the beginning of the era of Christ. If 
only this could be established beyond a doubt, the 
history of Vikramaditya and Kanishka, about which 
there is yet considerable divergence of scholarly opinion, 
w*ould become settled to a degree not dreamt of by 
any yet ; because, Somadeva, the translator of the 
Brihatkatha, says in so many clear words that he 
makes no change in the matter of the original beyond 
the mere change of language and the necessary abbre- 
viation. It" would be hyper-criticism to dispute the 
assertion of the author without establishing a clear 
motive as an essential prerequisite. This has not 
always been conceded to him. 

There is work to be done, therefore, in the co-ordi- 
nation of the study of the two languages, Sanskrit and 
Tamil, in the interest of both. In the absence of the 
original, if the Sanskrit translation could be collated 
and compared with the Tamil, the result would go far 
towards solving one of the most important problems 
of ancient Indian History ; namely, the origin of the 
Samvat era which has had to be accounted for in so 
many fanciful ways by great scholars. There are re- 
ferences in both the Kathdsarithsdgara and the Bri- 
hatkathdmanjari, to a Vikramaditya- Yishamasila, who 



COKCLUSION 329 

got rid of the MIecha trouble, and carue to be regarded 
an incarnation of the divine energy of Vishnu or ^iva, 
it does not matter which to us. This question is too 
long for discussion here. 

My object is not to settle disputed questions or to for- 
mulate a new historical hypothesis. Now that archaeo- 
logical and epigraphical work have made some ad- 
vance, I appeal for a better, more rational, and syste- 
matic study of the literature of the country, with a view 
to making them yield the results that they are capable 
of. Inscriptions and archaeological research can after 
all provide the dry bones only. All else will have to 
be got from liteiatare. Besides, there is a period to 
which inscriptions do not lead us. For such periods 
we have to depend upon literary evidence alone, if this 
is available, either from Sanskrit or the vernaculars. 
It is a duty that every one owes to his country to do 
all in his power to advance the study of this literature. 
In addition to the discharging of a duty, this study 
of literature will be a source of pleasure even to 
busy people. Here individual eti'ort can take us only 
a small way. But if these efforts were made to flow 
into one channel, the volume would be the greater and 
the work turned out the larger. 



CHAPTEK XIII 
THE THIBD TAMIL SANGAM 

In a learned article on the age of Manikkavasagar in 
the Asiatic Quarterly Beview for April, 1902, Mr. 
L. C. Innes arrives at the conclusion that, if the 
Saiigam existed at all, it must have come into existence 
about A. D. 1100 ' just prior to or coincident with the 
time of Kambar ' , the author of the Tamil Bamayanam. 
The Epic of the Anklet or SilappadiJcdram, an admit- 
tedly Saiigam work, was written by IlangovadigaJ, a 
younger brother of ^enguttuvan Sera, at whose court 
resided also another Saiigam Poet Sittalai Sattanar, 
otherwise Kulavanihan Rattan, the author of the 
companion work the Jewel Belt or Manimekalai. 
Tiruvalluvar's Kural again is quoted by these two 
authors and acknowledged to be a Saiigam work also. 
There is another group of San gam poets, the authors 
of the Ten Poems or the Pattuppattu, of which two by 
Eudirangannanar celebrate respectively Chola Karikala 
and Tondaiman Ilandiraiyan. From the Silappadi- 
kdram we learn that the Chola king at the time of its 
composition was Karikala, with his capital at Puhar, Koli 
or Uraiyur being also an important city ; the Pandya 
king Nedumseliyan with his capital Madura and the 
Ceylon king Gajabahu. There were according to the 
same work two northern kings at the Court of Sen- 
guttuvan. Kanaka and Vijaya. Of these personages 
the Mahdvamsa of Ceylon mentions two Gajabahus, 
one about l_33,^^c_^ and the other about A. D. 1142. 
One of these two kings is said to have invaded the 



GAJABAHU'S INVASION 331 

Chola countrj' in revenge for a past conquest or 
occupation of Ceylon by the Cholas. This conquest 
Mr. Innes thinks impossible for the Cholas, so long 
as the Pandyas were powerful, for strategic and 
geographical reasons. He thinks it would have been 
imprudent on the part of the Cholas, and, therefore, 
unlikely that they should expose their flank unde- 
fended against their sworn enemies. The invasion of 
Ceylon by the Cholas cannot have taken place before 
the reign of Kulottunga Chola I, who ascended the 
throne in A. D. 1070 and in whose reign the Pandyas 
were overthrown. Even a part of the Pandya country 
was colonized along the road to Kottaru near Cape 
Comorin. Had it not been so they would have had 
to pass through the Pandya country. These two reasons 
cannot stand, as we know in fact that Ceylon was 
invaded many times before the time of Kulottunga, 
whose father-in-law Rajendra's inscriptions are found 
in the country. Eajendra Chola, who ruled from A. D. 
1001 to 1042, captured after a sea-fight Kadaram and 
other places in the Eamnad Zemindari,' and even his 
father Eajaraja (a. D. 984 to lOlG) had a fleet with 
which he defeated the Seras at KandulCir. An inva- 
sion of Ceylon would have been a naval invasion and 
the Pandyas would have been always on the flank. 
The Cholas were engaged in wars in the distant 
Kalingam, on the banks of the Tungabhadra and 
even on the Malabar Coast, before the Pandyas were 
subjugated by Kulottunga I. So there is no difiiculty 
in the way of our accepting the account of the 
Mahavamsa about the occupation of Ceylon in the first 
century b. c. or so. If the chronicle cannot be relied 
on for the period earlier than the middle of the fifth 
century a. d. it may be sound to infer that the 
earlier Gajabahu's date may be somewhat later than 

1 Now proved to be in Burma. 



332 ANCIENT INDIA 

it actually is stated to be, and that the Tamil 
occupation of Ceylon may have taken place later than 
the first century b. c, say about the first century 
A. D. It thus appears quite possible that the first 
Gajabahu might as well have invaded the Chola 
country as the second. About the year A. D. 1142 
the Chola ruler must have been Eajaraja II, and 
from the published inscriptions of him and of his 
predecessor nothing can be traced as to an invasion of 
the Chola country by the Ceylonese. Eajaraja II's 
successor Kulottunga III claims to have conquered 
the Ceylonese, Madura, etc.; but Kulottunga III ruled 
from A.D. 1178 to probably A. D. 1216. 

The next personage of importance who figures in 
the Silappadiharam is a Karikala Chola. Mr. Innes 
is of opinion that this need not be the earliest Chola 
of the name that we know of. This is very true. 
Whether we have to take him to be the earliest or 
the latest must be settled on good grounds. So far 
as we know the history of the Cholas, we know four 
Cholas of this name. The first is Karikala of the poems 
Silappadikaram, Pattinappdlai and Porunarcirrup- 
padai ; the next in chronological order is Aditya 
II, Karikala, the elder brother of Eajaraja the Great, 
(a.d. 984 to 1016); the third is not a Chola sovereign, 
but only a viceroy and younger brother of Eajendra, 
who is the father-in-law of Kulottunga I ; and lastly 
Kulottunga I himself. Karikala, the contemporary of 
Senguttuvan, of the Sangam fame, must be one of 
these four. As I understand the article, Mr. Innes 
consider him to be the last. The Srivaishnava saint 
Eamanuja at Srirangam gave offence to a Saiva ruler 
J^arikala and in consequence had to flee the country. 
He went into the Mysore country and converted the 
the Jain king Bitti Deva alias Vishnuvardhana of Dvara- 
samudra to the Vaishnava faith. Subsequent to this, 
he founded the temple at Melukote, which event is 



THE KAKIKALA EEFERBED TO THE EAELIEST 333 

placed by the Guruparamparai in ^aka A.X). 1021 or 1099. 
In this work it is not stated that the Karikala was the 
Chola sovereign himself and Eamanuja is stated to have 
stayed a number of years at Saligrama in Mysore before 
meeting Vishnuvardhana. It would stand more to 
reason to identify his enemy Karikala with the younger 
brother of Eajendra, as he is definitely stated to be the 
viceroy of Koli or Uraiyur. Bat it matters Httle to our 
present purpose even if he be KuJottunga I himself, but 
it is unlikely, as the latter's capital was either Gangai- 
konda Cholapuram or Kanchi. Again the same Guru- 
paramparai makes mention of a Tondaiman Chakravarti, 
who could be no other than Karunakara Tondaiman, 
the general of Kulottunga I, and the real hero of 
Jayamkondan's Kalingaftupparaiii. These two were 
undoubtedly contemporaneous with Eamanuja. Mr. 
Innes would identify these worthies with the heroes 
of Eudirangannanar's Pattinnppalai and Permabandr- 
ruppadai. This cannot possibly be. Jayamkondan above 
mentioned is professedly a contemporary of Kulottunga 
Chola I, and celebrates in his poem, the Kalingattuppa- 
rani, the conquest of Kalingam by Karunakara Tondai- 
man of Yandai (Vandalur) for his master Kulottunga 
I. In the canto of the poem dealing with the royal 
genealogy he states explicitly that the two poems in 
praise of Karikala were sung in praise of the earliest 
of the name. The Peruinhamrruppadai of Eudiran- 
gannanar celebrates a Tondaiman indeed ; but a Tondai- 
man Ilandirayan, the son of the ancient Chola king Kokilli 
by the Naga Princess of Negapatam, as expressly stated 
in the poem itself. In the face of this, it is a feat of 
boldness to identify the two groups of personages. This 
is not all. Karikala of these poems is closely associated 
with Puhar or Kaverippambattinam as his capital with 
a possible alternative of Koli or Uraiyur or Urandai. 
But in all the published inscriptions of the later Gholas 
I have not come across any reference to Puhar at all, 



334 ANCIENT INDIA 

The Pandya kiag at the time of the events narrated 
in the Silappadikciram is Neduipseliyan who was 
succeeded by Ilamseliyan, the viceroy, probably, of Korkai, 
another Pandya capital. At about A. D. 1175 we come 
upon a line of Pandya rulers with the alternating titles 
of Kulasekhara and Sundara. With the rise of these 
rulers the Pandyas also rise into prominence, but till 
then the Pandyas were in no condition for an ' academy ' 
at Madura. Ever since the days of Eajaraja I the 
Pandya country had been so much harassed by the 
Cholas that they had to maintain a perpetual struggle. 
This culminated in the complete subjugation of the 
country by Kulottunga, who marched through the 
Pandya country and planted colonies in agricultural 
parts along the road to Kottaru in the Travancore 
country near Cape Comorin. This would hardly be 
the time for the Saiigam which admittedly flourished 
in the Pandya country. 

The Saiigam, therefore, ought to have existed at a 
time when the Chola country was ruled by Karikala 
and his successor Perunarkilli at Puhar and Uraiyur; 
when the Pandya country was ruled by Nedunseliyan 
of Muduraikkdnji and Nedtmalvddai fame at Madura 
and Korkai ; when Senguttuvan Sera was ruling at 
Vanji ; when Gajabahu was ruling in Ceylon. As far 
as is known at present the earlier Gajabahu's time 
would answer better than the reign of Gajabahu II. 
If it could be proved beyond doubt that the alphabet 
was not known in South India before the third century 
A. D., we may have to bring Gajabahu I up to within 
living memory of the time of the author of the Mahd- 
vamsa written about the middle of the fifth century A. D. 

Kambar might not have lived even so early as A. D. 
886. It is clear from his reference to Eamanuja that 
be must have followed the latter. The popular account 
which would bring together Kambar, Ottakkuttar, Pu- 
galendi, etc., and place them in the court of Kulottunga 



KAMBAR NOT KNOWN TO THE SANGAM 335 

may be correct in so far as these authors are concerned, 
but none of these had anythuig to do with the ^aigam. 
Kambar, we are told, went from place to place to gain 
the approval of the learned for his Bamaijanam, but 
he is not said, like Tiruvalluvar, to have gone to the 
Saiigam, whose imprimatur would at once have stamped 
his work with authority. Kambar therefore could not 
have been a contemporary of the Saigam, and there 
is nothing against his having been to the Saiigam 
proximus sed longo intcrvallo (next but at -a long 
interval). 



CHAPTER XIV 

THE AUGUSTAN AGE OF TAMIL 
LITEBATUBE 

Deeary as the prospect may well appear to the earn- 
est student of Tamil literary history, as in fact does 
early Soath Indian history in general, there has, of 
late, been brought to light a considerable body of 
Tamil literature which throws a flood of light upon 
the much-doubted, though often debated, period when 
literary activity in Tamil reached its high watermark. 
Scholars are much divided in opinion as to the Saigam 
having ever existed at all, except in the active imagi- 
nation of later poets and the idle tongue of tradition. 
This is not strange, considering how much truth is 
generally overgrown and interwoven with fable and 
legend. Whether wantonly or otherwise, the truth 
is very often hidden almost beyond recognition in 
later literature ; and early scholars in modern Indian 
research have unwittingly contributed their own quota 
to the very same end. Much has, therefore, even 
to be unlearnt before making an attempt to learn 
something about this distant past of the oldest of the 
Dravidian languages of South India. Even in the 
traditions handed down to us, much distorted though 
they are, there are certain cardinal facts and charac- 
ters standing clearly marked out from the rubbish 
outgrowths. It will not, therefore, be without interest 
to attempt to place these facts in the light in which 
they appear on an unbiased and impartial inquiry. 



THIKD SANGAM AND UGEA-PANDYAN 337 

An attempt' therefore will be made in this chapter to 
set forth the available evidence, literary and historical, 
which tendsj towards the following conclusions : — 

(1) That there was an age of great literary activity 
in Tamil to warrant the existence of a body like the 
traditional ^aiigam. 

(2) That the period of the greatest Sangam activity 
was the age when Seiguttuvan Sera was a prominent 
character in politics. 

(3) That this age of ^eiiguttuvan was the second 
century of the Christian era. 

(4) That these conclusions are in accordance with 
what is known of the later history of South India. 

There are a number of works in Tamil literature 
of a semi-historical character of a later and of an 
earlier age. These alone will be relied upon here, 
without altogether eschewing tradition of a reliable 
character. So far as tradition is concerned, there 
were three Tamil ^angams ' that flourished at or 
about Madura, and of these, the third is all that we 
can presume to speak about. This Sangam had, for 
its members, forty-nine critics and poets who con- 
stituted a board of censors. There were forty-nine 
Pandya rulers, among whom were Mudattirumaran 
and Ugra-Peruvaludhi, who actively patronized the 
Sangam. This last personage is the sovereign before 
whom the Rural of Tiruvalluvar received the Sangam 
imprimatur. It is not out of place to remark here 
that the author of the Kural was not among the 
Sangam members, and there were a large number like 
him at different places, as will appear in the sequel. 

Taking this Ugra-Pandyan for reference, a number 
of poets and kings can be grouped around him from 
internal evidence of contemporaneity without having 
recourse to any legends concerning them. But it 

I The poem quoted in the note at page 2. Silappadhikdram. 

22 



338 ANCIENT INDIA 

is first of all necessary to show that it is probable 
that Tiruvalluvar was a contenaporary of Ugra- 
Pandyan. Apart from the verse in praise of the 
Kural ascribed to him, it is a well-known fact that 
Tiruvalluvar had a sister by name, or rather title, 
Avvaiyar. This poetess sings of this same Pandyan 
and his two friends the Chola Killi, who performed 
the Bdjasuya, and the Cheraman Mavanko, although 
the names of these personages are not mentioned as 
such in the poem 367 of the Purandnuru. But poem 
twenty-one of the same collection by lyur Mulangilar 
specifies his victory over Vengaimarban and the 
taking of the ' great fortress of the forest (Kanap- 
pereyil).' It also refers to the fame of this Pandyan 
as transcending the skill of poets. This Ugra- 
Pandyan is credited with having caused the collection 
Ahananuru to be made. Certain mythical achieve- 
ments are ascribed to one Ugravarma Pandyan in 
the Madura Sthalapurana and the Hdldsya or Tiru- 
vilayddal, which achievements are alluded to in the 
Epic of the Anklet} 

Leaving aside Ugra-Pandyan for a while, the 
greatest of Avvaiyar's patrons — in fact, almost the 
patrons — were Adiyaman Neduman Anji and his son, 
Pohuttelini. Their territories were in the modern 
Mysore province and in the Salem district, with the 
capital at Tagadiir,^ identified with Dharmapuri in 
the latter district, though there was another Tagadur 
of some consequence in later history in the Mysore 
district, not far from NanjanagiJdu near Mysore town. 
There was an Adiyaman about the same region who, 

1 Silappadhikaram, Canto xi, 11. 26-31. 

2 Mr. Kanakasabhai Pillai identifies this place with Dharmapuri, 
Salem district. Vide Epigraphia Indica, VI, No. 34, and ante, XXII, 
pp. 66 and 148. Mr. P. J. Richards, M.A., I.G.S., informs me that a 
hill overhanging the town Atur goes by the name Awaimalai, the 
hill of Avvai. 



AVVAI, ANJI, PABANAR 339 

as the Chola viceroy, was driven across the Kaveri 
when Talakadu was captured by the famous 
Ganga Eaja, the general of Vishriuvardhana Hoysala 
before A. d. 1117. Of the many poems in the Purana- 
nuru collection ascribed to Avvaiyar, the great 
majority celebrate Anji, one of the last ' seven 
patrons of letters ', as patronage went in those days. 
Several of these mention the hero and his son by 
name. Poem ninety-one gives the liero's name and 
refers to the gift to Avvaiyar of the black gooseberry 
supposed to confer immortality on the lucky eater 
thereof. The same incident is referred to, with the 
name of Avvaiyar put in it, in the poem Siru- 
pandrriippadai ^ of Nalliir Nattattanar included in the 
Ten Tamil Idylls, another Satigam collection. The 
poem has for its special object the celebration of 
Erumanattu Nalliyakkon, a petty chief over Vellore 
Amur and other places near about, as the most 
liberal among the liberal patrons of those days, 
namely, the Chera, the Chola, and the Pandya, and 
the seven last patrons. Poem ninety-nine of the 
Purandnuru is of importance, as giving us another 
clue to a different synchronism of the utmost con- 
sequence. This poem celebrates Anji's conquest of 
Tirukkovilur, and states that the hero's fame tran- 
scended the capacity of the poets of an older generation, 
and yet the poet Paranar ' sings to-day of the glory 
■of your conquest of Tirukkovilur '. 

This mention of Paranar is of very great im- 
portance to literary history. He was a poet among 
the Sarigam members and is credited with a large 
number of the Purandnuru collection. But Paranar's 
fame should have been greater, had he really en- 
joyed the patronage of Senguttuvan Sera, whom he 
celebrated in the fifth division of another Saugam 

1 11. pp. 99-103. 



340 ANCIENT INDIA , 

collection, the Ten Tens (Padirruppattu) . The parentage 
ascribed to Sefiguttuvan there agrees word for word 
almost with that given by the author of the Epic 
of the Anklet, a brother of the king, and is even 
fuller of particulars. The last verse,^ the Padigam, 
written either by a friendly- contemporary or disciple 
or some one else in a similar position, explicitly 
gives us the names of the hero and the author, and 
thus leaves us in little doubt as to the correctness 
of the connexion. It is on these two accounts that 
the commentator of the latter work relies for his 
fuller account of the Chera's history. From the refer- 
ence to the Sirupdn made above, it is clear that 
Avvaiyar enjoyed the patronage of Adiyaman Nedu- 
man Anji. Poem ninety-nine of Purandnuru refers to 
Paranar as having celebrated the same patron. The 
last verse of the fifth division of the Ten Tens connects 
unmistakably Senguttuvan with Paranar. Thus then 
it is clear that Senguttuvan Sera, Adiyaman Anji, 
Awaiyar and Paranar must have lived, if not ac- 
tually at the same time, at least in the same genera- 
tion. Senguttuvan was a remarkably great ruler, and 
thanks to the efforts of our modern ' Nachchinarkiniyar', 
Mahamahopadhyaya Pandit Saminatha Iyer of the 
Madras Presidency College, we have two great works 
composed at his court and in his time, which shed 
a flood of light on contemporary history and which 
would go a long way in settling many a knotty point 
in the literary history of South India. These are the 
Epic of the Anklet ( Silappadhikdram) and the Jewel- 
Belt (Manimekhalai). The first is the work of Ilango, 
the younger brother of Senguttuvan, who, after 
renouncing civil life, resided at Kunavayil near Kariir 



1 Vide p. 10, footnote on p. 11, and canto xxix. Pandit Saminatha 
Iyer's edition recently published, pp. 78-6. Silappadkikdravt. 
^ Silafpadhiharam, canto xi, 11. 20-31. 



PAEANAR AND KAPILAR 341 

(Vanji), the ancient capital of the Chera ; and the 
second, the companion and supplement, though the 
earlier composed, from the pen of (rather the style of) 
Madurai Kulavanigan Sattan, otherwise known as 
Sitthalaichchattanar, the corn merchant of Madura. 
<His head was believed to have been exuding matter on 
account of the blows dealt by himself whenever he 
detected errors in other's composition, considering it 
a misfortune to have to read or listen to such blunders ; 
so uncompromising was he as a critic.) Before pro- 
ceeding to a consideration of these great works, it is 
better to dispose of a few other important characters. 

Of the last seven patrons celebrated in the 
Sirupdnarruppadai of Nallur Nattattanar (believed to 
be one of the Saiigam forty-nine), there is one Pehan 
(otherwise Vaiyavikkon Perumbehan) who was so 
liberal (inconsiderately so) as to give a warm covering 
to a peacock. This same incident is referred to in 
poem 14.5 of the Furananuru ascribed to Paranar. 
This personage sometime in his life transferred his 
affections from his wife Kannahi (to be carefully 
distinguished from the heroine of the epic) and several 
poets, among whom Paranar, made poetical appeals 
on her behalf. The others were Kapilar, Arisil Kilar 
and Perumkunrur Kilar (poems 43-7 both inclusive 
of the Purandnuru) . There is considerable similarity 
of sentiment in these. Poem 343 of the same work is 
also ascribed to Paranar, and it refers to a Kuttuvan 
very liberal in the donation of wealth ' brought 
down hill-country and from oversea '. 

Passing on to Kapilar, another Sangam celebrity 
reputed by tradition' to be the younger brother of 
Tiruvalluvar, it is found that he had for his patron 
and friend a chieftain, Vel Pari, whose demesne Param- 
bunadu comprised 300 villages and who was master 

1 The actual story connecting these is regarded as a fabiioation by 
■some scholars. 



342" ANCIENT INDIA 

of Parambu Hill. Kapilar is credited with having 
composed the- kurinji section of the Aingnrunuru, the 
seventh of the Ten Tens, the Kurinjippatiu of the Ten 
Idylls (all ^angam works) and the Inna (that which is 
bad and therefore to be avoided), Forty. When Pari fell 
a victim to the treachery of the three Powers, who made 
a futile attack on him jointly, Kapilar as his chief 
friend took his two girls with him to be given away 
in marriage to some person worthy of them, and thus- 
do his last duty to his departed friend. Poems 200, 201 
and 202 of the Purandnuru refer to the incident* of 
Pari's giving a car to the creeper mullai and to 
Kapilar's offering the girls to Vichchikkon and Pulikadi- 
maP Irungovel of Malainadu. Both of them refused 
to marry the girls, and some insult offered as to the 
social standing of his patron's family the poet resents 
in poem 202. Poem 201 refers to Irungovel, said to 
have been a descendant in the forty-ninth generation 
from the ruler of ' Tuvarai '^ who was born from ^ 
sacrificial fire. The title Pulikadimal has considerable 
similarity in its origin to a story which is given as 
explaining the origin of the Hoysalas in inscriptions 
of a later time. The following poem resents Irungo- 
vel's refusal to marry the girls, and refers to the destruc- 
tion of Arayam city, the head-quarters of this family, in 
consequence of an insult offered to the poet Kalatha- 
laiyar * by an ancestor of Irungovel's. The poet further 
begs, with biting sarcasm, to be pardoned for having 
introduced the girls as the daughters of Pari, instead 
of as the descendants of Evvi, a chief in the Pandya 
country. 



1 Vide Sirupdn. 

^ He that killed a tiger. 

3 Tuvarai may be either Dwaraka ia Guzerat or Dwaravati of 
Dwaraaamudra of the Hoysalas. 

* Another poet who celebrates Karikala, and his Chera con- 
temporary, Perumseraladhan. (Poem 65, Purandnuru.) 



kapilab's contemporaries 343 

Kapilar himself is connected with the Chera Mantha- 
ram Serai Irumporai and is spoken of with great regard 
as a poet by another poet, Porundhil Ilanglranar. Poem 
126 by Marokkattu Nappasalaiyar refers to his praise 
of Malaiyaman Tirumudikkari, who was in possession 
of MuUfir Hill. It incidentally refers to the naval 
strength of the Sera, likening the futility of the 
author's attempt at celebrating Kari, after Kapilar had 
done so, to the endeavour to sail a ship in the face 
of the Chera fleet. Poem 174 by the same author 
refers incidentally to MuUur Hill, celebrated by Kapilar, 
and directly to Soliyavenadbi Tirukkannan (otherwise 
Tirukkilli), who rendered yeoman's service to Peruvirar- 
killi while in hiding at Mullur. The poem further 
credits the Malayaman Soliyavenadbi Tirukkannan 
with having restored the Chola to his position. Another 
person that Kapilar celebrates is Tirumudikkari, ruler 
of Malainadu, with his capital at Tirukk5vilur and 
with the hill Mullur. Poems 1'22 and 123 refer to his 
having been sought in alliance by the three powers. 

Beginning with a consideration of what little is 
known of these three personages, Avvaiyar, Paranar 
and Kapilar, we have been introduced to a number 
of poets and potentates living within a generation of 
one another. Before proceeding to a consideration 
of the chief rulers of the age and their geographical 
location, let us turn aside to glean what we can of 
contemporary history from the two epics of the age 
of Senguttuvan, who was by far the most impor- 
tant character of the period and about whom we 
could gather an amount of information from the above 
works. 

The Epic of the Anklet is the story of Kovalan ' 
(Gopala, and his wife Kannahi), both of the mercantile 
community of Puhar (Kaverippumbattinam), and has, 
for its moral, the triunjph of the wife's chastity and 
the vindication of the husband's innocence. The story 



344 ANCIENT INDIA 

is as follows in brief outline : Kovalan, the son of 
Masattuvan of Puhar, was early married to Kannahi, 
the beautiful daughter of Manaygan of the same place 
and community. The marriage was celebrated with 
great pomp and becoming circumstance, as the two 
parties were of high social standing. After a while, the 
mother-in-law set her daughter-in-law up independently 
in a different house in the same city, provided with all 
that the young couple might need for conducting a 
successful and virtuous life, as householder and house- 
wife. Sometime after, Kovalan took a fancy for a 
highly accomplished and exceedingly lovable profes- 
sional dancing-woman, whose skill in her art was 
unsurpassed, nay even unsurpassable. The lover and 
mistress led a happy life and had a daughter, the 
only offspring of their affection. Disconsolate as 
Kannahi was, she never lost her affection for the 
husband who had thus given her up, and was quite 
as faithful to him as she would have been under 
ordinary circumstances. At the conclusion of the 
annual festival to the god Indra, the usual bathing 
in the sea brought the festivities to a close. This was 
a day of enjoyment for all and the whole elegant 
society of Puhar turned out to the beach to spend 
the day in music, dancing, and other such amuse- 
ments. The happy lovers singing to the accompani- 
ment of the yal, a Tamil musical instrument now 
gone out of use, by turns, suspected, from the tenor 
of the songs, each the other of having changed his 
or- her affection. Stung by this imagined bad faith 
on the part of his sweetheart Madhavi, Kovalan went 
home to his house, instead of to hers as usual, and 
felt quite ashamed of himself for his treatment of 
the wife, who redoubled her attentions to him since 
she had seen that something ailed her lord. Overcome 
with remorse, Kovalan confessed to his wife his 
position with respect to Madhavi and communicated to 



THE EPIC OF THE ANKLET 345 

her his resolution to make arc ends for his past 
misconduct by entering into business in Madura on his 
own account, asking her if she would follow him, should 
he act upon his resolution. Kannahi signified a ready 
assent and gave her husband the pair of anklets 
(Silambu), the only thing valuable he had not as yet 
given away to MadhavT, for providing the capital neces- 
sary for him to become a merchant in Madura. That 
very night the repentant and admiring husband with his 
faithful spouse unknown to anyone, started away 
before dawn and took his way along the northern 
bank of the Kaveri. Picking up the nun Devandhi, 
a few miles above Puhar, they continued their 
journey to Srirangam and Uraiyur. Thence taking 
one of the three roads indicated by the Malainadu 
Brahman from Mangadu (Alavay in Travancore), 
who was returning from Madura on a pilgrimage to 
the shrines of Vishnu, they reached the outskirt of 
the capital city of the Pandyans. Leaving his tender 
wife in charge of a hospitable shepherdess and her 
daughter, he entered Madura city the next day to 
sell one of the pair of anklets. Not finding a ready 
sale, as the jewel was of very high value, he 
wandered long before he was accosted by a goldsmith, 
who was going towards the palace at the head of 
a number of his apprentices. On Kovalan's offering 
the jewel for sale, the wily smith promised to get it 
sold, with a request that he would keep the jewel 
with him and wait there till he should send for him 
from the palace whither he was then going. Proceed- 
ing gleefully to the royal residence, he reported to 
the king that the thief who had stolen the 
queen's anklet had been caught with the jewel in 
his possession and had been kept waiting under 
promise of purchase. The king who was much 
distressed at the loss of the jewel and the pain it 
caused the queen, said that the jewel should be 



346 ANCIENT INDIA 

brought, having kiUed the thief. He actually meant 
that he required the man and the jewel to be brought, 
in order to kill the man, if guilty. The plot of the 
goldsmith, the real culprit, succeeded so well that 
the king was deluded and the innocent hero was 
murdered, after transacting a pathetic scene much 
like the one in Shakespeare's Eichard III. News of 
this calamity reached Kannahi who, in great anger, 
forgot her usual modesty, and bent upon establish- 
ing her husband's innocence and the power of her 
chastity, walked boldly forth, quite, unHke her 
ordinary self, with the other anklet in her hand 
and rang the bell of justice in the great gate of the 
palace. This alarm, quite unheard of in the reign of 
the then Pandyan ruler, made the hall-porter suspect 
that something seriously wrong had taken place. 
The unusual apparition of a young injured woman 
with an anklet in one of her hands, with anger and 
grief on her countenance, was immediately announced 
to the king. Admitted without delay into the royal 
presence, Kannahi proved that the anklet for which 
her husband suffered death was hers and not the 
queen's, demonstrating that the jewel in dispute was 
filled with rubies. The queen af&rmed hers was filled 
with pearls. Kannahi invoked a curse that Madura 
should be consumed by fire for this remissness of 
her king, who, rather than survive the disgrace he 
had brought upon a line of illustrious rulers, died 
immediately. The queen followed her consort, and 
Kannahi left the city by the western gate towards 
the hill-country, where she was to join her husband 
in a fortnight, as promised by the goddess of 
Madura. This union of the wife and the husband 
was seen by the hill-tribes, who duly reported the 
matter to their king, then in camp on the hills with 
his queen and retinue. At the request of the good 
queeb, the king built a temple and consecrated it to 



MANIMBKHALAI 347 

the chaste lady (Pattini Devi) who had undergone so 
recent an apotheosis. 

This is, in the merest outline, the story of the first 
epic, and the second is a sequel to this. Information 
of all the proceedings at Madura was given at Puhar 
by a Brahman friend of Kovalan, who, having bathed 
at Kumari (Cape Comorin, near which was once a 
river), was baiting at Madura on his homeward 
journey. The mother and mother-in-law of Kannahi 
died of grief. The father and father-in-law renounced 
life and became Buddhistic monks. Madhavl, disconso- 
late at Kovalan's sudden disappearance, sent him an 
importunate appeal to return, while he was yet on 
his outward journey to Madura. Finding it of no 
avail, she had been overcome with grief, and when 
news of Kovalan's death reached her, she gave up life 
and all its pleasures to become a lay disciple of a 
Buddhistic monk ; while her daughter just blooming 
into a woman of rare beauty and womanly grace, 
entered the Buddhistic cloister. Jeioel-Belt [Manivie- 
khalai) was her name. Her renunciation forms the 
subject of the epic called by her name. The heir- 
apparent of Puhar is very deeply in love with her, 
but she is taken care of by a goddess, who plays 
the guardian angel, much like the Ariel of Shakes- 
peare. To save her from the loving prince's ardour, 
she is removed to an island by the goddess while 
asleep ; and there she is initiated into the Buddhist 
mysteries. Having understood her past life, she 
returns to Puhar with a begging-bowl of extraordinary 
virtue. The prince still prosecuting his hopeless love, 
falls a victim to the jealousy of an angel, whose 
wife's disguise the heroine assumed to keep out her 
importunate lover, her own husband in a previous 
life. Consoling the queen and the king in their 
sorrow for the loss of their son, she leaves Puhar (at 
the mouth of the Kaveri) and proceeds to Vanji (not 



348 ANCIENT INDIA 

far from Kranganur at the mouth of the Periyar), 
where she learns all that the teachers of different 
religious sj'stems have to teach her. Not satisfied 
with their philosophy of religion, she is directed to 
KanchI by her grandfather, who had betaken himself 
to Vanji in anticipation of Puhar being overwhelmed 
by the sea. Manimekhalai proceeds to Kancbi and 
relieves the place from famine by the use of her 
begging-bowl. Learning the true philosophy of the 
Buddha from a saintly monk, she stopped there. 
This is the merest outline of the two poems, forming a 
single epic, which is of a dramatic-epic character 
with something of the narrative in it. Containing, 
as they do, a great deal of the supernatural, there 
is yet much that must be regarded as historical. 
In one word, the setting is poetical, but the back- 
ground is historical. 

The Epic of the Anklet has much to say about 
the ' three great kings of the south ' and its com- 
panion concerns itself with three likewise ; but the 
place of the Pandyan is taken by the ruler of 
Kanchi. To begin with the Chola kings celebrated 
by the poets, two names stand out ; those of Kari- 
kala and Killi, called indifferently Nedumudikkilli, 
Velverkilli, Mavankilli, etc. Of these two. Dr. 
Hultzsch has the following in his South Indian 
Inscriptions ^ : 'It will be observed that each of the 
four documents, which record the names and 
achievements of these ancient Chola kings, enumerates 
them in a different order. One of the four kings, 
Kokkilli can hardly be considered a historical person, 
SiB lie is credited with having entered a subterraneous 
cave and there to have contracted a marriage with a 
serpent princess, and as the Vihkirama Solan UlS, 
places him before the two mythical kings, Sibi and 

1 Vol. ii, part iii, pp. 377-8, 



KAEIKALA 349 

Kavera.' ... Of Karikala and Ko-chchengan here 
follows what the same authority has to say : ' A 
comparison of these conflicting statements shows that 
at the time of the composition of the three documents 
referred to, no tradition remained regarding the 
order in which K5-chchengan and Karikala succeeded 
each other. Probably their names were only known 
from ancient Tamil panegyrics of the same type as 
Kalavali and Pattinappalai. It would be a mistake 
to treat them as actual ancestors of that Chola dynasty, 
whose epigraphical records have come down to us. 
They miist rather be considered as representatives of 
extinct dynasties of the Chola country, whose names 
had survived in Tamil literature either by chance or 
by specially-marked achievements. 

' To Karikala the Leyden grant attributes the 
building of embankments along the Kaveri river. 
The same act is alluded to in the Ealing atttcpparani 
and VHihirama Solan Uld. The Kalingattupparani 
adds that he paid 1,600,000 gold pieces to the author 
of the Pattinappalai. According to Porunardrnippafjai 
of Mudathama Kanniyar the name of the king's father 
was Ilanjetchenni. The king himself is there called 
Karigal or blackleg or the elephant-leg ; while the 
Sanskritized form of his name Karikala would mean 
" death to elephants ". He is said to have defeated 
the Chera and Pandya kings in battle fought at 
Vennil. According to the Silappadhihdram his capital 
was Kaverippumbattinam. In one of his interesting 
contributions to[the history of ancient Tamil literature, 
the Hon'ble P. Coomarasami allots Karikala to the 
first century A. D. This opinion is based on the fact 
that the commentaries on the Silappadhikdram rep- 
resent Karikala as the maternal grandfather of the 
Chera king, Seiiguttuvan, a contemporary of Gajabahu 
of Ceylon. Mr. Coomarasami identifies the latter with 
Gajabahu I, who, according to the Maliavamsa, reigned 



350 ANCIENT INDIA 

from A. D. 135, With due respect to Mr. Coomarasami's 
sagacity, I am not prepared to accept this view, 
unless the identity of the two Gajabahus is not 
only supported by the mere identity of name but 
proved by internal reasons, and until the chronology 
of the early history of Ceylon has been subjected 
to a critical examination.' 

A careful examination of the first book of the Epic 
of the Anklet shows that during the early part of the 
life of the hero, the king of Puhar was Karikala 
Ghola. Apart from the fact that the commentator 
invariably interprets all references to the ruling king 
as applying to Karikala (and this in itself is much, 
as the commentator was one who was thoroughly 
qualified for the task and can, as such, be expected 
to embody nothing but correct tradition in his com- 
mentaries), there are a number of direct references 
to him, either by name or by the fact that the 
erection oE the tiger-emblem on the Himalayas was 
attributed to him. The last four lines of canto i blesses 
the ruler ' who erected the tiger-emblem on the crest 
of the Himalayas.' There is direct mention of Kari- 
kala's name and of his rewarding the poet of the Pdlai 
[Patf/inappalaiy in one of the manuscripts consulted 
by the editor ; further down, lines 158-60 of canto 
vi, mention as clearly as one could wish Karikala as 
ruling at the time, and the commentator explains it 
as such by giving the passage the necessary expansion, 
not to mention the allusive but undoubted reference 
to the same personage in lines 95-8 of canto v. Of 
the three kings praised in canto xvii, there is reference 
to Karikala's Himalayan exploit in the last stanza 
in page 400, and this is the last Chola ruler 
referred to. Canto xxi, lines 11 et seq., clearly state 

' Pages 44-5^Pandit Saminatha Iyer's edition of Silappadhilcdram. 
There is nothing in the lines to lead one to regard thorn as later 
interpolations. 



karikala's early history 351 

that Karikala's daughter had married the then Chera 
king, whom she joined when he lost' his life in the 
sea. These would undoubtedly point to Karikala as 
having ruled at Kaverippumbattinam till Kovalan's 
departure for Madura. The hupernatual achievements 
are clearly nothing more than the fanciful way in 
which these Buddhistic authors attempt to explain 
even the most ordinary occurrences. The most cursory 
examination will discover that it is so, and the faith 
of these authors in the doctrine of harma comes in 
for much that would otherwise be inexplicable in the 
story. 

To return to Karikala. He was the son of Uruvap- 
paharer-Ilanjetchenni and had married among the 
Nangur Vel class. It is said that he assumed the 
form of an old judge in order to satisfy the scruples 
of the parties, who were afraid that, being a youth, 
he could not bring mature experience to bear upon 
the question coming up for decision. His name is 
actually accounte'l for as having been due to an accident 
by fire^ while yet a baby. He is the hero of the 
two poems in the Ten Tamil Idylls, 'ForunarSrrup- 
padai of Mudathama Kanniyar and the Pattinappalai 
of Eudirangannanar, for which latter the author 
received the sixteen lakhs of gold pieces mentioned 
above. He defeated the Chera by name Perumseral- 
adhan and a Pandyan whose name is not men- 
tioned, in the battle of Vennil.^ This Chera wounded 
in the back in battle died of disgrace.^ Eudiran- 
gannanar celebrates another hero, the Tondaman 

1 The text has it that when he was drowned she called out for 
him. The waves showed him to hec when she joined him and both 
disappeared, much like Kannahi's union with her husband. 

2 The 3rd stanza from the Palavwli quoted at the end of the 
Porunardrruppadai. 

3 Lines. 143-8. Porunararruppadai. Vennil is Kovil Venni in the 
Tanjore district. 

^ Purandnuru, poems C5-6, 



352 ANCIENT INDIA 

Ilandirayan of Kanchi whom tradition traces to the 
Chola Killi by a Naga princess, as stated by Dr, 
Hultzsch, in the quotation above. This Killi, other- 
wise Nedumudi Killi, is the ill-fated successor of 
Karikala, in whose reign a catastrophe befell Puhar 
and brought the Chola fortunes very low indeed. 
While luckily there are but a few Karikalas among 
South Indian rulers, there are a number of Killis,' 
among whom it is a matter of great difficulty indeed 
to fasten upon the individual here mentioned. Fortu- 
nately for us, there are certain distinguishing features 
which give us the clue. One of the exploits of 
Seiiguttuvan Sera is the victory at Nerivayil, a village 
near Uraiyur (Trichinopoly), where he defeated the 
nine Killis of the Chola family and thus restored 
his cousin (brother-in-law) to power. From the 
Epic of the Anklet and the Jewel-Belt we learn he 
was the last ruler in Puhar and it was in his reign 
that the ancient Chola capital was overwhelmed by 
the sea. It is this Killi, whatever his distinguishing 
epithet, that is the father of the Tondaman referred 
to by Dr. Hultzsch. While in the Perumbdndrruppadai, 
the commentator Nachchinarkiniyar (who must have 
lived in the thirteenth century a. d. or thereabouts)^ 
makes the Tondaman the son of a Naga princess 
with whom the Chola lived in a cave, which is generally, 
taken to mea.n the nether-world. The Jewel-Belt 
gives the following much less romantic version of 
the story, which agrees in all details except the 
cave, so far as it goes, while accounting for the 
destruction of Puhar. Without relegating them 
actually to Hades, we find reference to Naga rulers in 
India and Ceylon, between whom a war once took 
place for the possession of some Budha-relic, according, 

1 Twelve in Purananuru, and nine in Silappadhikdram, 

2 Mr. Anavaradha Vinayagam Pillai allots him to the ninth 
century a.d. {Christian College Magazine xvii), 1900. 



KILLI, SUCCESSOR OF KARIKALA 353' 

to the Jeicel-BsU} The same also refers to another 
race of the Nagas as naked cannibals. The story goes 
on to state that Killi fell in love with a Naga princess, 
who appeared before him all alone like a damsel from 
the fairy-land, in what is called the ' Kali Kanal ' ' 
(the grove by the back-water) at Puhar. After a 
month of happy life, she left him (and this is 
explained away by preordination), when she had 
taken her residence in an island near the coast,' 300 
miles away from Puhar. Sometime after she had 
become the mother of a beautiful son, she sent the 
child to the father through a merchant, whose ship 
called at the island on its homeward journey. While 
nearing Puhar, the ship got wrecked off the coast and 
the baby's fate was not known for certain. On 
hearing of this disaster, the king ordered a thorough 
search to be made, and in his paternal anxiety forgot 
his duty to the god Indra, whose annual festival had 
been forgotten. The wrath of the god showed itself, 
very likely, in a storm-wave which destroyed Puhar 
completely.^ This account taken from the Jciuel-Belt 
of the birth of the Tondaman makes Dr. Hultzsch's 
objection as to the myth, lose edge, and therefore it 
is quite possible — nay even historical — that there was 
a human ruler by name Killi, who ruled at Puhar 
after Karikala.* The destruction of Puhar accounts 

1 We find reference] to such wars in the Mahdvamia, in the earlier 
chapters of the work. 

2 This Kali Kanal is referred to in canto vii as the place of resort of 
pleasure-seekers — nay, a veritable ' lover's arbour' in Puhar. 

3 Vide Ulanimekhalai note, pp. 97-8. The island of Ceylon, in which 
is Adam's Peak, is sacred to the Buddhists. This hill is now known 
as Samantakfitam and Samanelai, but referred to in the work as 
Samantam and Samanoli. 

♦ There is a story of similar import with respect to a Ceyloncsc king, 
whose wife was abducted by a Chola king under similar circumstances. 
There are no grounds to connect the two at present, at any rate. 

5 The descent into Hades, therefore, will have to be regarded as an 
eastern figure of speech and nothing more. There are other incidents. 
23 



354 ANCIENT INDIA 

for the association of Killi with Uraiyur at the end 
of the Epic of the Anklet, in the course of which 
the catastrophe to Puhar must have happened. The 
ruler at KanchI during the period, according to the 
Jewel-Belt, was an Ilam Killi, the brother of Kalar 
Killi. 

This last ruler of Puhar is referred to in the Jewel- 
Belt with the following adjuncts indifferently, namely, 
Vadiverkilli, Velverkilli, Mavankilli, and Nedumudikilli. 
With the help of his younger brother, Ilango (perhaps 
Ilamkilli of Kanchi), who was probably the heir-ap- 
parent as the term would indicate, he defeated the 
Cheras and the Pandyas on the banks of the river 
Kari.* The three poems concerning this personage in 
the Purandnuru refer to his having been besieged at 
Uraiyur and Amiir by Nalamkilli. After the destruc- 
tion of Puhar he must have been reduced to the woeful 
plight from which Seriguttuvan Sera, it is clear, re- 
lieved him by his victory at Nerivayil ^ over the nine 
Chola princes who forgot their allegiance to the Killi. 
This is borne out by the enmity between Nedumudi- 
killi and Nalamkilli indicated in poems 44, 45, and 47 
of Purandnuru. There are besides a number more of 



throughout these epics, which interpreted literally would be quite 
as absurd ; and these are easily accounted for by the author's' belief 
in the doctrines of Karma and re-births, the main pillars of the 
Buddhistic faith, as also to a modified extent of the Brahmanic. It 
is this that makes them attempt to account for actual phenomena 
by causes supernatural. This, modern European critics fail to bear 
in mind, and hence all appears grotesquely legendary and absurdly 
fabulous. These remarks find their full application in the Jewel-Belt, 
though there is hardly any Indian work of a quasi-religious or ethical 
character in criticising which one could afford to forget them. 

1 Pandit Saminatha Iyer's edition of Manimeklialai, page 741, canto 
xix, lines 124, 130. 

3 Nerivayil in later history belonged to the Kshatriya Sikhamani 
Valanildu, i.e., the region round Uraiyar, and the royal secretary of 
Virarajendra as the owner of this village as also of Tali Tiruppan- 
angadu. South Indian Inscriptions, vol iii. 



SENGUTTUVAN SERA 355 

Killis, each with a distinguishing epithet which would 
support the existence of the nine KilHs (Killi being a 
generic name of the Cholas like Senni, etc.) The author 
of these poems, Kovil Kilar, celebrates another Killi 
who died at Kulamurram. None of these Killis is 
associated with Puhar^ In fact neither in the Pura- 
ndniiru nor in the Sinipdndrruppadai do we find the 
city of Puhar associated with these Cholas. 

Leaving aside the Cholas, we find the whole time, 
■during which the incidents narrated in the two epics, 
took place, taken up by Sefiguttuvan Sera, whose capi- 
tal was at Vanji (Karur) at the mouth of the Periyar 
on the west coast. His exploits are recorded in some 
detail in these works and the others referred to alreadyi 
His father and uncle are celebrated in the two preced- 
ing sections of the Ten Tens. His chief achievements 
were a naval victory over the ' Kadambu,' two inva- 
sions of the north with victories on the banks of the 
Ganges over Kanaka and Vijaya, sons of Balakumara 
and the victories at Nerivayil and Viyalilr (there is 
a Viyalur connected with Nannan, an ancestor of 
Yichchikkon, whom Kapilar celebrates in poem 200 
of the Purandnuru). Like his father, Sefiguttuvan 
also claims to have cut out the bow-emblem on the 
Himalayas. 

Coming to the Pandyas of Madura, we have two 
names in the Epic of the Anklet, namely, Nedum Che- 
liyan, victor over the Aryan army ; and Ilam Cheliyan, 
who was viceroy at Korkai when Nedum Cheliyan 
died at Madura. Before discussing these names we have 
to dispose of one other Pandyan of importance in liter- 
ary history. AYhen Tiruvalluvar submitted the Rural 
to the Saiigam critics, the king was Ugra-Pandyan, 
victor over the ' big forest fort (Kanappereyil) under 
the chief Vengaimarban.' The Tiruvilaiijddal Purdnam 
ascribes to him some achievements which are of a 
legendary chaiTacter, though some might have been 



356 



ANCIENT INDIA 



possible. These are the very achievements ^ ascribedi 
to a Pandya ruler by the Malainadu (hill-country) Brah- 
man from Mangadu (Alangadu or Alavay), then af 
Uraiyiir in the course of a pilgrimage to the shrines of 
Vishnu, who directed Kovalan to Madura from Uraiyiir. 
This praise would lose all point unless it referred to the 
ruling Pandyan when the Brahman pilgrim sojourned at 
Madura, on his visit to Tirumalirunjolai. The author 
of the epic clearly designates him the Pandyan Nedum 
Cheliyan ' victor over the Aryan forces ', whatever these 
forces might have been. There are a number of refer- 
ences throughout the work to the erecting of the fish- 
emblem on the Himalayas. It is the boast of Karikala 
Chola, Ugra-Pandyan, and Nedumseraladhan (father of 
Seiiguttuvan) that they cut out their respective emblems. 
on the Himalayas. These achievements are clearly 
ascribed to the reigning Pandyan in the commencing 
and the concluding lines of canto xvii. Thus then the 
Ugra-Pandyan ' of the Puranas and tradition could not 
have been any other than the ill-starred Pandyan Ne- 
dum Cheliyan of the Epic of the AnMet. Avvaiyar's 
reference to Paranar referred to above would agree 
quite well with this identification, as in accordance 
with that reference, Paranar should have been the 
earlier of the two. 

The successor of the Pandyan, apparently his son, 
Pandyan Ilam Cheliyan, otherwise Verriver-Cheliyan^ 
was in Korkai when his father died, and succeeded to 
his father's estate in the course of the story. We are 

1 Canto xi, lines 23-31. There are besides references to his achieve- 
ments in connexion with the ruling Pandyan in many places through- 
out the work. 

s Stanza 4, bottom of page 400. Mr. Kanakasabhai Pillai in hia- 
interesting papers on The Tamils 1800 Years Ago, makes Ugra-Pandyan 
the contemporary of the successor of the Killi, the grandson of Karikila. 
This would bring Tiruvallnvar's Kural too late for quotation by the 
friendly authors of the two epics, as the Kural received the Sangant, 
approval under Ugra-Pandyan. [ Madras Beview, vol, ii, No, 6,] 



PANDYAN NEDUM CHBLIYAN II 357 

vouchsafed no other mformation, except that he pro- 
pitiated the manes of the injured lady, Kannahi, by the 
sacrifice of one-hundred goldsmiths. This may have 
been a massacre of that class of artisans. Probably, 
his reign was short and uneventful. He must have 
been succeeded by Pandyan Nedum Cheliyan, victor 
at Talayalaiiganam^ over the two other kings and seven 
chiefs. Kapilar is connected with prince Mantharam 
-Seralirumporai of the ' Elephant-look ' by Porundhil 
Ilam Kiranar in poem fifty-three of Purandnuru. This 
Chera was ruling over Tondi (Quilandy, and not the 
Solan Tondi, on the east coast now in the Eamanad 
zamlndari), and was the master of Kolli Malai,^ 
which is a hill in the Salem district quite on the 
border of Trichinopoly. His position in this region 
Tvould have been possible only in the light of Sefi- 
guttuvan's victories over the Kongus at Seiigalam 
(red-field), at Viyalur, about the same region, and over 
"the nine Cholas at Nerivayil, near Trichinopoly. This 
personage was taken prisoner by the Pandyan Nedum 
"Cheliyan ^ of Talayalariganam fame. At this latter place, 
the young Pandyan overthrew the ' Tamil army ' under 
the two kings and ' seven chiefs '. This Pandyan was 
a great celebrity in literature and in his reign flourished 
a number of poets of the Safigam fame. He is the hero 
of Mangudi Marudanar's Maduraikkdnji and Narkirar's 
Nedunalvddai among the Ten Tamil Idylls. He was 
himself, like several other rulers of those days includ- 
ing his grandfather, a poet. There are a number 
• of poems relating to him in the Purandntlru collection. 

1 He must have been particularly young when he came to the 
throne, Puram, 7. 

i The last lines of canto xiv, the Epic of the Anklet, refer to the 
reigning Chera as the ruler over the country between the Himalayas 
■with the bow-emblem and Kolli INIalai. 

3 S. A., canto xxvlii, lines 115-25. Seliyau is again a generic name 
ililje Pandyan, and the father or the son have the adjunct ' big ', ' young ', 
much as ' Smith, senior or junior.' 



358 ANCIENT INDIA 

Thus we see that during the course of the story, 
the rulers of Puhar were Karikala and his grandson 
Kokkilli^ of Madura Nedum Cheliyan, identified 
with Ugra-Pandyan, and Ilam Cheliyan followed later 
by Nedum Cheliyan, victor over the Tamil army at 
Talayalanganam ; the Chera ruler all the time at Karur 
(Vanji) was ^enguttuvan Sera, the brother of the author 
of the epic and the patron of the author of the Jewel- 
Belt, the father and the uncle of this personage having 
been the heroes of the second and third sections of the 
Ten Tens. Chera (prince) of the ' elephant-look ' must 
have been his son and viceroy of the newly-conquered 
territories. 

These were the sovereigns of the three kingdoms 
who flourished in the generation of the literary cele- 
brities headed by the names chosen at the commence- 
ment, namely, Avvaiyar, Paranar and Kapilar. These 
were the three stars of the first magnitude in the 
literary firmament, as those in the pohtical, of South 
India. Other poets there were and patrons likewise. 
Of the latter, mention has already been made of Pari 
of Parambunadu and Parambu Hill ; Kari of Tiruk- 
kovilSr in Malainadu and Mullur Hill ; Irungovel of 
Arayam in the western hill-country of the Tuvarai^ 
family with the special distinction of having killed a 
tiger to save a saint absorbed in contemplation ; 
Pehan of Nallur in Malainadu (hill-country) ; and Adi- 
yaman Anji of Tagadur and Horse-hill, overthrown 
according to the eighth section of the Ten Tens by 
the Perum Serai who overthrew Tagadur. These are 
all mentioned by name as well as by distinguishing 
achievements, most of them in a somewhat fabulous 

1 Mr. Kanakasabhai Pillai places a Nalamkilli between these two. 
[Madras Review, vol. ii, No. 7.] 

Tuvarai might have been either Dvaraka in Guzerat or Dvaravati 
orHalebid in Mysore; but the latter does not appear till much later, 
and the name Tuvarai in classical works is always taken to mean 
Dvaraka. 



THE AGE OF THE SANGAM 359 

garb in the Sirupdndrruppadai of Nallur Nattattanar. 
Besides these, we have already mentioned the prince 
Chera of the ' elephant look ', ruler of Tondi and master 
of Kolli Hill. To come to the poets, in addition, to 
the three already referred to, we must mention here 
only a few of the more important, such as Tiruvalluvar, 
Ilangovadigal, Siththalai Sattanar, Eudirangannanar 
Mudathamakkanniyar, Mangudi Marudanar, Narklrar 
and others, whose works are held even to-day in high 
esteem by the Tamil world as masterpieces in their 
respective departments. Some of the rulers were 
themselves poets of some merit, and Avvaiyar was not 
the only poetess. The two young daughters of Pari 
could compose verses and the elegiacs ascribed to 
them is proof of their ability in this direction. There 
is besides a poem in Purananiirit ascribed to the wife 
of Bhilta Pandyan, who performed sati on the faneral 
pyre of her husband. These names raise a strong pre- 
sumption in favour of the view that, as the age of 
Seiiguttuvan, including in it a generation either way, 
was one of great literary activity, it might have been 
the time when the Sarigam activity was at its height.* 
This was the age when the creed of the Buddha was- 
in the ascendant, which, like all other reform move- 
ments of a later time, gave a powerful impetus to 
the development of the vernaculars of the country. 
Although the Saiigam is not mentioned as such in 
these early works, we find the cultivation of Tamil 
specially associated with Madura, which is often re- 
ferred to as ' Tamil Kudal ',' despite the fact that a 

1 It will be oleir from the above that tho author of the Kural 
could not have been much earlier than the friendly authors of the 
epics. Still they quote with great respect from the Kural. This 
could only be if the Kural were authoritatively approved of after 
being read out before the Sangam, Siththalai Sattan being one of the^ 
august body. Ilango, however, \v?.s not among this body, although 
he quotes from the Kural likewise. 

2 Siriipin and Pii randiiUru, and Kalingattupparani, of a later age. 



360 ANCIENT INDIA 

large number of poets mentioned above flourished in 
other courts. In the traditional lists of Saiigam cele- 
brities we find mention of the names of most of the 
authors referred to above. It is not improbable, 
therefore, that a board of censors like the Saugam 
existed about this age at Madura. 

Without pausing to examine what other literary men 
can be grouped along with those spoken of already, 
we may pass on to the consideration of the more 
important question of the probable age of this great 
literary activity in South India. The two chief epics, 
the Epic of the Anklet and the Jewel-Belt, were 
Buddhistic, the latter more so than the former ; and 
the other works of the age show considerable Buddhis- 
tic influence and follow in this order with regard to 
•dates of composition. The Rural is the earliest of 
the major works, as there are quotations from this 
work in the companion epics, which even acknowledge 
the quotations. The two epics must have been com- 
posed about the same period. The Jewel-Belt precedes 
the Epic. The Ahandnuru miscellany is ascribed to 
Ugra-Pandyan, before whom the Kural received the 
Saiigam imprimatur. The Kundalakesi is another 
Buddhistic work and, so far as we know it at present 
■of a controversial character, much like the Jewel-Belt 
in plan. This was followed by the Nllakesitteruttu, 
which attempts a refutation of the Kundalakesi and 
naust, therefore, be of a later age. If this general 
■course of literary activity is correctly indicated by 
the editor of the Sen Tamil, whose account is relied 
-on here, and if we can fix the probable period of this 
literary activity, this will prove the sheet anchor in 
the literary chronology of South India. 

la the midst of the confused tangle of mere names and 
names of similar sound and meaning, we have, fortu- 
nately just a few distinct characters and characteristics 
that make the attempt not altogether hopeless, provided 



THE AGE OF KABIKALA 361 

the question be approached in the spirit of unbiassed 
inquiry. Although Killi is quite a common name 
among the Chola rulers, Karikala is somewhat un- 
common. Seiiguttuvan is definite enough and his 
Ceylon contemporary Gajabahu's name occurs, luckily 
for students of Tamil history, but twice among 174 
names unlike Vikramabahu for instance. The Kalin- 
gattupparani, a work composed between A. d. 1111^ 
35 refers to Karikala and Ko-killi in the reverse 
order, Killi being followed by Kochengaii, Karikala fol- 
lowing both. There appears, from the Purandnuru, 
to have been a Killi in the third generation before 
Karikala ; but the Chola succession is fixed as follows : 
with respect to this — taking only such names as are 
specificallj' mentioned in the following order — Ilan- 
jetchenni, his son Karikala, his grandson Nedumudi- 
kijli. The Kallngattupparani, like the great commen- 
tator who must have lived after Jayamkondan, the 
author of this work, ascribes to Killi the descent into 
Hades. It is just possible that there was a mistake 
made, as to the particular Killi whose union with the 
Naga princess was thus described by later writers. 
If this were so, the Karikala of the Himalayan fame 
could not have been Kullottunga I A. D. 1070 to 1118 
certainly, nor the viceroy of Koli (Uraiyur) in the 
reign of his father-in-law Eajendra A. D. 1053-60. 
There is one other Karikala of the later dynasty^ 
whose epigraphical records are available to us — Aditya 
Karikala, circa A. D. 950-85 who killed Vira Pan- 
■dyan in battle, as if in sport. But the author of the 
Kalingattupparani places Karikala three names before 
Viranarayana or Parantaka I, while Aditya was the 
eldest son of Parantaka, a grandson of the first of 

1 For a list of this dynasty of kings, see the table prefixed to 
my article, ' The Chola Ascendency in South India' (Madras 
Review) for November, 1902, or the South Indian Inseriplion, vol. 
iii, part II, recently published. Chap. vi. Pt. I, supra. 



362 ANCIENT INDIA 

that name. So then, we are driven to the necessity 
of looking for this Karikala far earlier than A. D. 900. 
It has been shown above that the works themselves 
point to an age when the religion of the Buddha was 
in the ascendant as the probable period when the 
works under consideration at least the greatest of 
them were composed. Buddhism was overthrown 
about the seventh century A. d. when Hiuen Thsang 
was travelling through India, and when Tirujnanasam- 
bhanda flourished. About a.d. 862, a battle was fought 
between Varaguna Pandyan ^ and the western Ganga 
king Sivamara, at Sri Parambi (Tirupparambiyam 
near Kumbhakonam) . This would not have been 
possible had the Cholas been at all powerful. Nor 
do the works of the age under review mention the 
Gangas as so powerful. We are at this period (a. d. 
750 to 850) passing out of the Pallava ascendency in 
South India which must have begun about A. D. 500, if 
not earlier with Vishnugopa of KanchI, the contem- 
porary of Samudragupta. There is no reference in the 
works under notice to such premier position of the Palla- 
vas or even the Tondaman rajas — the only Tondaman of 
the period figuring as a minor chief, and KanchT was 
a Chola viceroyalty. In the Eayakotta* plates, a 
Pallava king, by name Skandasishya, who must have 
been earlier than Vishnugopa claims descent from 
Asvattaman through a Naga princess. Perhaps by this 
time the origin of Ilandirayan had been so far forgotten 
as to make this credible. These considerations 
lead us to assume an earlier period for Karikala. 
This personage is associated with Puhar even in 
tradition, and the Jeioel-Belt tells us in unmistakable 
language that Puhar was submerged in Killi's reign. 
All the poems in the Purandnuni about Killi, a number 

1 Annual Beport for Epigraphy, 1905-06, part II, p. 25, ani 
JEpigraphia Indica, vol. viii, pp. 295 and 319. 
9 No. 8, Epigraphia Indica, vol. v. 



THE GAJABAHU UNDER BEPEEENCE 363 

of them with distinguishing epithets, connect them 
with Uraiyiir, and none of them is connected with 
Puhar. Uraiyur figures as a considerable town in the 
Epic of the Anhlet. Even the ^irupanarruppadai 
does not mention Puhar. This is a very important 
circumstance as will appear presently. 

AVhen Seiiguttuvan performed an elaborate sacrifice 
on the occasion of the consecration of the temple 
to Pattini Devi, the heroine of the An.Jclet, there 
was present, among others, Gajabahu of Lanka 
surrounded by sea [as opposed to Mavilangai of 
Erumanattu Nalliyakkon.j This Gajabahu of Ceylon, 
Ilam Cheliyan of Madura, and Killi of Uraiyur, built 
temples to the same deity, following the lead of the 
Chera. The question now is whether this Gajabahu is 
the first or the second of the name. The first Gajabahu 
ruled as monarch of all Ceylon from a. d. 113-35 ; 
the second as one of three from a. d. 1142-64 as in 
the list appended to Miss Duff's Chronology of India. 
Dr. Hultzsch's challenge to the Hon'ble Mr. Coomara- 
samy is to establish by internal evidence that the 
Gajabahu mentioned was the first and not the second 
of the name. As to the other part of his objection, 
it must have become clear from the above that for the 
myth about Killi, later writers alone are responsible ; 
and enough direct evidence has been adduced to show 
that Karikala was ruling at Puhar when Kovalan began 
life as a married man, and that his daughter was the 
wife of the Chera king then reigning. To return to 
Gajabahu ; let us for the sake of argument take him 
to be the second of the name. We know something 
of the history of South India in the middle of the 
twelfth century and the geographical distribution of the 
Powers. The Chola rulers ought to have been either 
Vikrama or Kulottunga ; the rulers of Madura either 
Vira Pandyan or Vikrama Pandyan ; the sovereigns 
of the Chera country were Vira Kerala Varman and 



364 ANCIENT INDIA 

Vira Eavi Varman ; of the Mysore country, Vishnu- 
vardhana and his son, Narasimha. There were no 
separate rulers at Kanchi, except in the sense that it 
was an alternative capital of the Cholas. There was 
an Adiyaman, no doubt, about this period (somewhat 
earlier), but he was the Chola viceroy at Talakad (not 
connected with Tagadur), who was driven across the 
Kaveri by Ganga Eaja, the famous general of Vishnu- 
'vardhana. There were no Kongu rulers such as are 
mentioned in the Epic of the Anklet. Gajabahu 
himself was in no plight to come to Vanji ' (Karur) 
at the mouth of the Perar, not far from the modern 
Kranganur (KodungalSr). Gajabahu was fighting his 
own battles nearer home with his two neighbours, 
Manabharana and Parakramabahu, and it was all he 
could do to keep himself from being permanently 
■overwhelmed. 

The first Gajabahu invaded the Chola country to 
bring back the inhabitants of Ceylon, carried off by 
the Chola army on a previous invasion of the island 
during his father's reign ; they were then in bondage 
at ' the city of Kaveri in the country of Soli '. He 
brought back besides the relics and the begging-bowl 
of the Buddha, ' which aforetime had been carried 
away by the Dhamilas '. The Bdjaratndhari while 
ascribing the same achievements to him, states that 
the Ceylonese went of their own accord ' to serve at 
the river Kaveri.' ^ He is there said to have brought 
a number of the Tamils and settled them in Ceylon. 
In the BajdvaU, however, there is an even more 
elaborate version. The ruler is there called Eajabahu, 

1 Vanji itself was not the capital of the Chera at the time. 
■ The capital of Kerala was then Quilon, and during the period of 
the Chola ascendency (a. d. 900-1300). 

s Vol. II, pages 57-8. This mention of the river instead of 
the town would show that when the Bajaratndkari was compiled the 
•existence of the town was passing into oblivion. 



GAJABAHU I 365 

which may be due to a miselection. He was ac- 
customed to make soHtary night-rounds ; when he 
heard the wailings of a widow in her house, for 
her two sons had been taken captive by the king 
of ' Soli Katta'. The Adigars (officers) failing to 
discover anything wrong, the king sent for the 
woman and learnt from her that 12,000 families 
had been carried away, ' when the king of Soli 
Eatta made his descent upon the island '. The same 
achievements as in the previous account are recorded, 
with the addition ' that the king of Ceylon also, 
upon that occasion, brought away the foot ornaments 
of Pattini DevI^ and also the four arms of the gods.' 
This Pattini Devi could have been no other than the 
heroine of the epic, who was known as Pattini Devi 
or Pattini Kadavul. This must have been regarded 
as a valuable relic in those days, when relics played 
such a prominent part in religion. As to the begging- 
bowl of the Buddha, a bowl of extraordinary virtue 
had been brought by Manimekhala from an island 
south of Puhar, where there was a Buddha-seat as 
well, which had the divine quality of letting people 
into the secrets of their former existence, a belief 
in which was one of the cardinal doctrines of 
Buddhism. The Jewel-Belt also states that two 
Naga kings fought for the possession of this Buddha- 
seat. These then are the native accounts of the 
Ceylonese chronicles with respect to Gajabahu I ; but, 
unfortunately, the reference to Pattini Devi does not 
occur in the earlier compilations. This is matter for 
great regret. It must, however, be noticed that all 
these works were compiled from earlier writings 
and living tradition. Here follows what the learned 

1 The distinction between the Chola country and other parts o{ 
South India is not carefully made in the Mahdvamia. Sometimes 
they specially talk o£ Soli Ratta, at others of Blalabar generally, 
meaning not the Malabar Coast necessarily, but India generally. 



366 ANCIENT INDIA 

translator of the works has to say about them : ' so care- 
fully has the text been handed down that the discre- 
pancies found to exist between the more ancient and 
modern copies are very slight indeed. The Bdjdvali 
is a work of different hands and compiled from local 
histories; it is used as a corollary or addition to the 
two preceding works, continuing the narrative through 
the struggles between the Portuguese and their rivals, 
the Dutch. ' 

All tradition, therefore, and the historical circum- 
stances attending the stories of these epics point to 
the first Gajabahu, as the Ceylon ruler who was 
present at the celebration of the sacrifice by Seiigut- 
tuvan Sera and if the Bdjdvali could be relied on, 
the conclusion would be forced upon us. As it is, 
however, there is but little ground to connect these 
events with the second G-ajabahu, as some scholars 
would have it. 

As to the date of the first Gajabahu, the chronicle 
gives A.D. 113-35 as the period of his reign. What- 
ever be the real worth of this actual date, we have 
little reason to regard that of his successor namesake 
as inaccurate. It has been pointed out that the 
middle of the twelfth century could not possibly be 
the time when the poets flourished. There is the 
Ealingattupparani, the date of composition of which 
could not have been much later than A. d. 1111, cer- 
tainly not later than a. d, 1118. Sundaramurti Nayanar, 
whom the late Mr. Sundaram Pillai placed in the eighth 
century A.D. refers to Pari,' the patron of Kapilar, 
and the general tenor of the epic points to Buddhistic 
times, which the twelfth century was not. Taking 

1 The reference is to the complaint which the devotee makes 
in respect to the lack of liberality in people in his days, although 
one should choose to describe a miser as a patron liberal as ' Pari', 
much as Bacon complains of learned men turning Faustina into 
Lucretia, 



AUGUSTAK AGE, SECOND AND THIBD CENTURY A. D. 367 

lihe Buddha Nirvana, at 487 b. c, instead of 543 B. c, 
as accepted by most authorities now, the dates for 
Gajabahu I go up to a. d. 162-91. Until it is proved 
that the earher dates of the Mahdvamsa are unreli- 
able^ (except for this error), these dates will have to 
stand, and the period of the greatest literary activity 
in Tamil must thus be put down as the second and 
third centuries of the Christian era at the latest. This 
would be quite consistent with the power of the Tamils 
in the centuries preceding the Christian era, when they 
several times invaded Ceylon and imposed themselves on 
the Ceylonese as usurpers, about the middle of the first 
century B. c. These facts coupled with the emperor 
Asoka's reference to these Tamil powers, along with 
the five Hellenistic potentates, warrants great pro- 
bability with respect to the high state of civilization 
of the Tamils. 

Besides the mention of Gajabahu, we find mention 
of a number of other rulers in the course of the 
Epic of the Anklet, who were some of them friendly 
and others hostile. The friendly kings were the 
' hundred karnas ', who provided Seiiguttuvan with 
a fleet of ships with which to cross the Ganges, when 
he invaded the northern country to punish Kanaka 
and Vijaya, sons of Balakumara who spoke dispara- 
gingly of the Tamil rulers. These brothers were 
helped by Uttara, Vichitra, Rudra, Bhairava, 
Chitra, Singa, Dhanuttara and Sveta.^ Mr. Kana- 
kasabhai takes the ' hundred karnas ' as equal to Sata- 
karnin of the Matsyapurana. But against this, there 
is the objection that the Tamil poet mentions ' the 
hundred persons, the karnas ' ; ' and in one place the 

1 Prof. Rhys Davids finds the chronicle borne out in important 
details by the inscriptions among the finds of the Sanchi Tope, etc. 
(Buddhist India, pp. 299-300) ; page 1 et seq., J. R. A. S., 1908 ; India7i 
JReview, May, 1908 : the Date of tlie Buddha by Jlr. Gopala Iyer. 

2 S. A., canto xxvi, 11. 180-5. 

3 S. A., canto xxvi, 1. 149. 



368 ANCIENT INDIA 

author even speaks of ' the karaas ' without the 
hundred.' 

Besides, as would appear from Dr. Bhandarkar's 
DeJchan, the name Satakarnin was that of a dynasty 
and not of only one ruler. The name Satakarni alone 
appears in the early part of the list and the date is 
40 B.C. to A.D. 16 (see 166, Bombay Gazetteer, vol. 
i, part II). The word itself could be taken to mean 
'keen-eared' (rather than hundred-eared), figuratively. 
It is hard to understand how a contemporary could 
have rendered it with the number attached not to the 
ears but to men. Besides, these were ruling in 
southern India, although Magadha was included in- 
their dominions. So then, even if the ' hundred karnas ' 
meant Satakarnin, the particular sovereign might have 
been Yajna Sri who ruled from A. d. 154-74 in the 
Maharashtra, and A. d. 172 to 202 in Telingana. If this 
be so, we have also a Vijaya, mentioned in all the 
puranas, who was in Telingana from A. D. 202-8 
but as against this, there is the objection that ^efi- 
guttuvan crossed the Ganges and fought with Vijaya 
and his brother on the northern bank of the Ganges. 
This, notwithstanding, that ^eiiguttuvan must have 
flourished about this time, could be inferred from the 
fact that Seiiguttuvan's father, Pandyan Nedum Chel- 
iyan and Karikala all claim victory over the Aryan 
forces. It is very likely that the Tamil forces helped 
in the overthrow of the foreigners by Gotamiputra 
Satakarni^ and the direct mention of gifts to Karikala 

1 S. A.., canto xxvii, p. 177. 

2 This is the more likely, as the Saka Nahapana and his successor, 
Rishabadata, ruled over the Maharashtra, with Junnar for their capital, 
and their territory extended up to Malabar. This dynasty, together with 
that of Chashtana in Milva, was overthrown by GBtamiputra Satakarni 
and his son, Pulimayi, among whose possessions we find ' the regions 
of the Malaya and the Sahya.' These Andhrabhrityas came from Dha- 
nakataka near Guntur, and driving back the usurpers, recovered their 
ancestral dominions. (Introduction to Literary Remains of Dr. Bhau 
Dhaji, page 25, and Dr. Bhandarkar'a Dekhan, sees, iv, v, vi.) 



POLITICAL DIVISIONS 369 

by the Eajas of Bundelkhand (Vajranadu), Magadha 
and Malava (Avanti) could not be altogether a figment 
of the imagination, since it is so very definite. All 
circumstances attending point to the second century 
A.D. as the era of Seiiguttuvan ; and the era of the 
greatest literary activity may be taken to be the second 
and third centuries after Christ. 

Buddhism was introduced into South India during 
the last quarter of the third century B. c. It must 
have taken some time to strike root, and in those days 
must have been somewhat slow in spreading. Judging 
from the exposition of it, as shown in the Jeioel-Belt, 
we might take it that it was as yet so free from any 
element of corruption as to evoke the admiration of 
even Christian scholars, like the learned translator 
of the Ceylonese chronicles. The early centuries after 
Christ may, therefore, be regarded as the age of 
Buddhistic ascendency in South India. When Fa 
Hian was travelling in India, there were already the 
early signs of revulsion, and Brahmanism returned 
to the fray. In the next two or three centuries Bud- 
dhism was swept off the country and the restoration 
of Brahmanism was completed when Hiuen Thsang 
came to India, chiefly through the agency in the Tamil 
country of the earlier Saiva devotees and some among 
the Vaishnava. From this time the struggle is not 
so much between Buddhism and Brahmanism, as 
between the latter and Jainism. 

In the first centuries of the Christian era, then, we 
find India south of the Tungabhadra thus politically 
divided. If we start at the source of the Kaveri and 
follow its course till it meets the Amaravati near 
Karur, and then go up the latter river continuing 
our journey till we reach the Palnis and the Western 
Ghauts, we shall have marked the land-boundary of 
the Chera sphere of influence. If we take a straight 
south-easterly line from Earur till we reach the sea, 
24 



370 ANCIENT INDIA 

east of the Zamindari of Sivaganga and south of the 
old Chola town of Tondi, the south of this line would 
be the Pandya, and north of it the Chola sphere of 
influence. It must not be understood that the terri- 
tory allotted to each power was always directly under 
it. The frontier regions were always of doubtful alle- 
giance, as could be seen from the care with which 
rulers in those days fortified and strengthened frontier 
towns. So far as the Cholas were concerned, they 
had always prominently before them the strategical 
advantages of Uraiyur on the west and KanchI on the 
north, although their chief city was Puhar on the sea- 
coast. Karur was the meeting place of the three 
powers and its neighbourhood was the scene of many 
a hard-fought battle. This central region, particularly 
the hilly portion, was therefore filled with petty chief- 
taincies owning allegiance, so long as it could be en- 
forced, to one or other of these powers, and constituting 
a group of frontier 'buffer-states'. Thus there was 
Irungovel north of the Mysore district and on the 
frontiers of Coorg. Next to him was the Adiyaman 
in the southern-half of the Mysore district and part 
of Salem with his head-quarters at Tagadur. He be- 
longed to the Chera family. South of this must have 
been the territory of Pehan with Nallar for his head- 
quarters, the country round the Palnis ; between the 
two last was probably Parambunadu of Pari. Next 
follows the Kongu country, which we might put down 
as including a part of the Coimbatore and Salem dis- 
tricts. In a line east of this is the hill-country of 
Kari with its head-quraters, Tirukkovilur. South of 
this is the Chola country proper, and north the pro- 
vince or kingdom, according to circumstances, of 
Kanchi. South of the Palghat gap and in the Pandya 
country was the chieftaincy of A'ay round Podiyil 
Hill in the Western Ghauts. On the opposite side 
round Korkai were the territories of Evvi. During 



SOUTH INDIA AGAINST THE DEKHAN 371 

the latter part of the reign of Senguttuvan there 
was a Chera, probably only a viceroy holding a tract 
of country extending from the KoUi MaFais^ to Tondi 
on the coast, with the Chola and the Pandya countries 
on either side. This was the prince Chera of the 'ele- 
phant-look ' (probably he had small deep-set eyes). 
The above appears to have been the geographical 
division of the country. This kaleidoscopic arrange- 
ment vanished and another pattern presented itself 
with every turn that affairs took. 

If we call the age under consideration the age of 
ihe Chera ascendency, as Senguttuvan Sera appears 
to have been at one time in his life the arbiter of 
the destinies of this part of the country, we pass on 
gradually from this into a struggle, the Chera supre- 
macy being shaken by the Pandyan. Here we lose 
the thread till we come to about a.d. 400, when the 
Pallavas rise into importance. The Pallava ascendency 
begins with Vishnugopa of Kanchl, the contemporary 
•of Samudragupta, and reaches its grand climacteric under 
Narasimhavarman, the destroyer of Badami (Vatapi), 
the Chalukya capital about a. d. 640. Over a century 
hence we find the Gangas and Pandyas fighting near 
Kumbhakonam. This role the Pandyas play several 
times in history. Their position at the farthest end 
of the peninsula gives them safety. It is only when the 
frontier powers fall, that we see the Pandyas asserting 
themselves. Throughout history the South Indian 
powers had to oppose the incursion of the Dekhan 
powers, and from the period of the rise of the Pallavas 
we can have a clear idea of the general position of the 
South Indian powers. Vargui:a Pandyan succeeded in 
chasing the Gangas back into their territory. In 
another century a new dynasty of the Cholas rise into 

1 This was the tract taken from O'ri by his enemy Kari and given 
to the Chera. 



372 ANCIENT INDIA 

eminence and achieve an ascendency, matched only by^ 
that of the later empire of Vijayanagar in its best days. 
The decline of the Cholas again brings into pro- 
minence, the Pandya in the south and the Hoysalas in 
the north. Both alike of these powers are overwhelmed 
in that great wave of Muslim invasion under Malik 
KafHr. The Muhammadan is beaten back by the heroic 
efforts of a number of chiefs and this movement cul- 
minates in the establishment of the Vijayanagar empire 
in the middle of the fourteenth century. The fall of 
this empire brings the history of Hindu rule in South 
India practically to a close, and the Mahratta Empire 
belongs to a different chapter of Indian history. 



CHAPTEE XV 

SOME POINTS IN TAMIL LITEBARY HISTORY 

In the Malabar Quarterly for March 1904, Mr. K. B. 
Eamanatha Iyer draws attention to a work of the 
French savant, Professor Julien Vinson, who offers 
some remarks on the history of Tamil literature. 
Mr. Iyer has thus rendered valuable service to the 
Tamil public, the majority of whom cannot have 
read the French original. The Professor divides Tamil 
literary history into three periods : The Jain period 
the Buddhistic period and the Brahmanic revival in, 
chronological order. The first period falls between 
the ninth and the twelfth or the thirteenth centuries; 
"the second between the twelfth and the sixteenth 
<;enturies ; the third, the period contemporaneous with 
Vallabha Deva, alias Ati Vira Rama Pandyan of 
Madura, and his followers. He ascribes the Kamba 
Ramayanam, Villiputiirar's Bhdratam and the Sthala 
Purdnas to the third period, namely, that of the 
6aiva ascendency. The grammarian Pavanandi and 
the lexicographers, Senden and Mandalapurusha, are 
given a later date. The most important of all his 
conclusions in this line is the period ascribed to the 
Mahdkdvyas of Tamil, namely, Ghintdmani, Silappadhi- 
Mram and Manimekhalai. He is of opinion that the 
second of these is the earliest in point of time. The 
first comes next in order ; no dates or periods are 
ascribed to these, and the third is placed later than 
Virasoliyam of Buddhamitra (end of the eleventh and 



374 ANCIENT INDIA 

beginning of the twelfth centuries) because ' Mani- 
7nekJialai is not referred to in the work '. 

Before proceeding to examine these conclusions in 
the light of recent research, we might draw attention 
to another authority in the same line whose con- 
clusions are no less important. Dr. Eeinhold Eost's 
article in the Encyclopmdia Britannica ^ though seven- 
teen years old now, was not deemed worthy of 
revision in issuing the supplementary volumes to the 
same monumental work. It is, therefore, to be pre- 
sumed that those concerned are of opinion that the 
conclusions arrived at in the article still hold good. 
These are its main conclusions in the department of 
literary history : — 

' But practically the earliest extant records of the 
Tamil language do not ascend higher than the 
middle of the eighth century of the Christian era, 
the grants in possession of the Israelites at Cochin 
being assigned by the late Dr. Burnell to about 
A. D. 750, a period when Malayalam did not exist yet 
as a separate language. There is every probability 
that about the same time a number of Tamil works 
sprang up, which are mentioned by a writer of the 
eleventh century as representing old literature.' The 
article further mentions that the earlier of these 
might have been Saiva books, the more important of 
the others being ' decidedly Jain '. Admitting traces 
of northern influence, Tamil works are believed ta 
show a spirit of independence of Sanskrit influence. 
The TolMppiyam, the oldest Tamil grammar, is 
ascribed on the authority of Dr. Burnell to the 
eighth centary, the VlrasoUyam to the eleventh, and 
the Nannul which superseded both, to the fifteenth 
century. ' The period of prevalence of the Jainas in 
the Pandya kingdom, from the ninth or tenth to the- 

1 Vol. XXV. 



CUEEBNT NOTIONS ON TAMIL LITEEATITRE 375 

thirteenth century, is justly termed the Augustan Age 
of Tamil literature. To its early doings is ascribed 
the Naladiydr, which is supposed to have preceded 
the Kural.' . . Chintdmani and the Divdharam are also 
both ascribed to this early Jain period. Kamban's 
Bdmdyanam (about A. d. 1100) is the only other Tamil 
epic which comes up to the Chinfdviani in poetical 
beauty. The most brilliant of the poetical productions 
which appeared in the period of the Saiva revival 
(thirteenth and fourteenth centuries) are two collec- 
tions of hymns addressed to Siva, the one called 
Tiruvdsakam by Manikkavasagar, and a later and 
larger work called Tevdram by Sambandar, and two 
other devotees Sundarar and Appar. ' The Ndldijira- 
prabandham is a collection of Vaishnava hymns 
contemporaneous with the former. After a period of 
literary torpor, w"hich lasted nearly two centuries, 
king Vallabha Deva, better known by his assumed 
name of At! Vira Eama Pandyan (second half of 
the sixteenth century) , endeavoured to revive the love 
of poetry, by compositions of his own, the most 
celebrated of which is Naidadam. Ati Vira Eaman 
was followed by a number of imitators, etc. . .' 

This, in brief, is the substance of the part of Dr. 
Eeinhold Eost's article dealing with the history of 
Tamil literature. AVe shall now proceed to examine the 
conclusions of these savants, with due deference to the 
high positions of the authors and with all gratitude 
for their having led the way in this line of inquiry. 

The researches and astronomical calculations of 
Professor Kielhorn' have assigned a. D. 16G2-3 as 
the date of the accession of Ati Vira Eama Pan- 
dyan. If then he marks an era in Tamil literature 
(he does maik the end of the period of decadence, 
and the revival under him and his followers may 

1 EingrapMa Indica, vol. vii, p. 17. 



376 ANCIENT INDIA 

be called the classical period — a period when poetical 
compositions were made by rule of thumb), it must 
have begun at the earliest about A. D. 1600. In this 
there is no cause for dissent. Going back from this 
date through the two centuries of decadence or liter- 
ary torpor, we arrive at A. D. 1300. This torpor is 
to be accounted for by the disturbed state of the 
country owing to the overthrow of Hindu kingdoms 
by two waves of Mussalman invasion. According to 
Dr. Eost then, A. d. 1300 would mark the latter end 
of the Saiva revival. And to this period, extending 
over perhaps a century or more, are ascribed the 
works of the Tevaram hymners, the Alvars and even 
Manikkavasagar. Professor Vinson would place the 
Manimehlialai also in this period. Manimekhalai, as 
admitted by the Professor himself, is a Buddhistic 
work, and we should rather feel inclined not to include 
it in the Saiva revival, if there had been such at the 
period. But of Manimekhalai later on. With respect 
to the others, Manikkavasagar has not yet lent himself 
to any definite period. Mr. L. C. Innes^ placed him 
in the ninth century. Pundit Vedanayagam Pillai ^ in 
the third century, and Mr. Tirumalaikkolundu to a 
period different from either. But of the Tevaram 
hymners, Sam bandar and Appar were contemporaries; 
and Sambandar paid a visit to Siruttondar, another 
of the sixty-three Saiva saints. This latter played an 
important part in the burning of Vatapi by the Pallavas, 
which event has been ascribed to Narasimhavarman 
Pallava in the middle of the seventh century a. d. ' 
Therefore it is as good as certain now that Sambandar 
and Appar lived in the seventh century a. d. As to 
Sundarar, he was a contemporary of Cheraman, the 

1 Imperial and Asiatic Quarterly Review, April, 1902. 
' Christian College Magazine, 1904. 

3 Bpigraphia Indica, vol iii, pp. 277 et seq., atid other references in 
page 52, of Hiss Duff's Chronology of India. 



THEORY OF SAIVA REVIVAL ,^77 

last Peruroal, the end of whose reign marks, according 
to some, at least, the beginning of the Kollam Era, 
A. D. 825. Whether this date be correct or not, he 
was certainly prior to Nambi Andar Nambi, a contem- 
porary of Eajaraja Abhaya Kulasekhara, alias Eaja 
Kesarivarman Eaja Eaja A. D. 985-1013.' As to the 
Alvar's, all of them were anterior to Eamanuja, in 
spite of Dr. Caldwell's statement to the contrary. A 
glance down the first twenty stanzas of the Bdmanuja 
Nurrandddi (included in the 4000 Prahandhams) will 
show the relation between Eamanuja and the Alvars. 
Eamanuja's date is A. d. 1017-1137 and no grounds have 
been as yet shown anywhere that I know of, to regard 
this period as at all improbable, while the evidence 
in its favour is accumulating. Not only were they 
merely anterior, but some of them had also been deified 
generations before him. Nathamuni, in the fifth 
generation before him, revived the chanting of Nammal- 
var's Tiruv'ymoli already practised and forgotten.^ In 
addition to these considerations, there is forthcoming 
•epigraphical evidence of an unimpeachable character 
to place the Vaishnava Alvars and the Saiva Adiyars 
much anterior to A. d. 1000. Eajaraja made provision 
for the recital of the Tevdram in the Tanjore temple.^ 
His grandson — a viceroy, of Konga, made provision 
for the recital of the works of two of the latest Alvars.* 
About A. D. 1000 images of gods in temples were named 
after Tiruv~>ymoli,^ the work of Nammalvar. The 
theory of a Saiva revival from the tenth to the thir- 
teenth centuries will definitely have to be given up. 

1 The late Professor Sundaram Pillai's article in the Christian College 
Magazine for 1891. 

2 Srivaishnava Guruparamparai (a chronicle of Vaishnava high 
priests). 

3 Inscriptions of Rajarija. Dr. Hultzsch's South Indian Inscrip- 
iions. 

i Government Epigrj,phist's Report for 1900. Sec. 21. 
5 Vol. iii, p. 1, South Indian Inscriptions. 



378 ANCIENT INDIA 

This is the period of commentaries and commentators 
rather than of writers. The revival which these works 
and their authors mark is a Hindu as opposed a 
Saiva revival. And its period is the seventh to the 
tenth century. It is in the following centuries — under 
the great Chola ascendency — that the antagonism be- 
tween the two sects (Saivas and Vaishnavas) was getting 
pronounced. There were even in this period Jains 
and Buddhists, the former more than the latter, and 
these were not prevented from composing or writing 
works. This literary period is, therefore, coeval with 
the period of the Pallava supremacy in South India, 
and there is ample internal evidence in the works in 
support of this conclusion. 

As to the date of Kamban's Bdmdyanam being A. D. 
1100, this conclusion appears to be based on the old 
belief that it was published while a Eajendra Chola 
was ruling. This ruler was identified with Kulottunga 
Chola I (A.D. 1063-1118). For this statement of 
contemporaneity there is no authority, and so far 
as the known circumstances of the author's history go, 
the date 807 Saka (or a. d. 885) does not appear to 
be far beside the mark. Here, it may be observed in 
passing, that in regard to such inquiries it has hithertO' 
been the fashion to discard all local and traditional 
evidence and accept nothing that has no epigraphical 
basis. It ought to be remembered in this connexion, 
that all tradition is not necessarily false. If tradition 
is interpreted with care and other evidence duly 
brought to bear upon it, the result will be far from 
disappointing, and so it is with respect to Kamban. 
This is not to be understood to mean that all tradi- 
tion is of equal value and is quite credible. Kamban, 
I have pointed out elsewhere,^ could have had no royal 

1 Christian College Magmine, 1902. This line of argument for Kamban 
is not warranted by later research. His date is probably the middle of 
the twelfth century a. d. 



AUGUSTAN AGE BEFORE SEVENTH CENTUKT A. D. 37& 

patron, for he celebrates none, while he had a patron 
in a lesser mortal Sadaiappa Mudaliar. He was a 
contemporary of Nathamuni who lived five generations 
before Eamanuja in point of lineage. The time occu- 
pied by these five generations, if we accept the year A. D. 
885, would be one hundred and twenty years and this 
is not improbable. Therefore Kamban may safely be 
referred to the ninth century A. d. One characteristic 
feature of this period deserves to be noticed here. It 
is that the metre adopted by poets during this- period 
is what is called Viruttam (Sans-Vritta). All the 
accepted Saiigam or earlier works are either in Ahaval 
or Venba metre. This would lead us to place the 
Ghintamani at the commencement of this period, 
because it is a masterpiece in this line of composition 
and was, by tradition, the model for Kamban's Bdmdya- 
nam. We have also reason to regard this as the 
period of great activity among the Jains. One reason 
chiefly insisted on by Pandit Vedanayagam for placing 
Manikkavasagar in the third century is the transition 
we could notice in his works from the earlier metre 
to the later, as stated above.* 

Before the seventh century A. c, then, we shall have 
to look for the early period of Tamil literature — to be 
called appropriately the Augustan Age — the age, that 
is, of great patrons. This is also the period of Saiigam 
activity. This is the period which has given us alL 
the most important works extant in Tamil — Silappa- 
dhikdram, Manimekhalai, Pattuppnttu, Padirruppattu 
and a number of others. The Tolhappiijam is generally 
the grammar on which these works are based. I 
have set forth in full (in chapter xiv), the argu- 
ments in favour of regarding the early centuries 
of the Christian era — or more precisely the second and 
the first half of the third centuries — as the Augustan 

1 An Article in the Christian College Magazine, 1904. 



380 ANCIENT INDIA 

Age. There is internal and external evidence in sup- 
port of this conclusion in the works mentioned above 
and others of the time. Whether this actual conclu- 
sion, which I have arrived at (which is more or less 
in agreement with those of Mr. Kanakasabhai Pillai 
.and the Hon'ble Mr. Kumaraswami of Ceylon), be 
the correct one or not, the day is long past when the 
works — the Silappadhiharam, Manimehhalai and the 
Rural, can be ascribed to the period between the 
ninth and twelfth centuries A. d. Silappadhil'dram was 
composed by Ilango, the Chera ascetic prince the 
younger brother of Senguttuvan, the reigning king ; 
Manimekhoblai by his friend the corn-merchant Sattan 
of Madura held in high esteem at the court of Seri- 
guttuvan at Vanji or Karur (known at different times 
and circumstances, Kodungalur, Mahaudiyarpattanam, 
Vanjikulam, etc.) ; the Kural of Tiruvalluvar is 
quoted by the two authors, and as such, it must have 
beeti well known at the time. This king ^enguttuvan 
had a contemporary ruler, by name Gajabahu, of 
■Ceylon, who was an honoured guest at his court. 
Which of the Gajabahus of the Ceylonese Chronicle 
is this personage to be identified with ? That the 
■Chronicle is not a history in the modern sense of the 
term does not admit of doubt. Dr. Fleet ^ is of opinion 
that the very names in the Chronicle are not correct 
a-nd much less, therefore, the dates. Professor Rhys 
Davids, on the contrary, finds the Chronicle borne out 
in important details by inscriptions in the Sanchi 
Tope.' For our present purpose, we find, in the whole 
list of kings in the Mahavamsa, only two rulers of 
the name of Gajabahu, one in the eleventh century 
A. D., and the earlier in the second century a. d. The 
reasons for identifying this Gajabahu, the friend of 



1 Footnote, p. 16, Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, 1904. 

2 Bicddhistic India, pp. 299, 300 et seq. 



STATEMENT OP ARGUMENTS 381 

Seiguttuvan, with the first of the name, have been set 
forth in full in chapter xiv. It will be enough to state 
them briefly here : (1) The state of things as gathered 
from the works themselves shows that Tamil was the 
language of Chera at the time. Mr. Logan has pointed 
out in the Manual of Malabar that in the latter half 
of the eighth and the earlier half of the ninth centuries 
Malayalam was in the makmg.^ The work, therefore, 
must have been composed much anterior to the elev- 
enth century a. d., the date of Gajabahu II. (2) These 
works must have been much anterior to the Ealin- 
gattuparani celebrating the conquest (rather the re- 
conquest) of Kalingam by the Pallava General Karu- 
nakara Tondaman of Vandalur for the Chola Kulot- 
tunga. This event is placed by the late Professor Sun- 
daram Pillai at about a. d. 1080.^ In the genealogy 
of the Cholas given by the author, the Karikala of the 
Pattinappalai is placed much anterior to the ninth 
century a. d., and Dr. Hultzsch admits that he must 
have belonged to a dynasty anterior to that whose 
epigraphical records have come down to us.^ (3) Sunda- 
ramurti Nayanar refers to Pari of Parambunadu (one 
of the last seven patrons celebrated in the Sirupanarrup- 
padai) whose name had, by the time the Nayanar flour- 
ished, become proverbial for liberality. (4) The Sangam 
is said by tradition to have passed out of existence in 
the reign of Kiin Pandya, alias Ninra Sir Nedumaran, 
the contemporary and convert of Guana Sambanda (in 
the seventh century) who was one of the Saiva leaders 
of the Hindu revival. The works under consideration 
are Saiigam works — in the sense that they were either 
accepted by the Sangam or were composed at the time 
as could be clearly made out. (5) Mahanaman, the 



t By comparing the language of the three Syrian Christian Grants. 
* Christian College Magazine, for 1891. Actual date about A. D. 1111^ 
3 South Indian Inscriptions, vol. ii. 



382 ANCIENT INDIA 

author of the Mahdvamsa, be he Sthavira Mahanaman 
the first of the name (a.d. 538), or the second (A. d. 
588),^ mentions a Gajabahu anterior to him. Whatever 
may be the actual date of Gajabahu he must have 
flourished before the sixth century and perhaps much 
•earlier. This is borne out by the fact that the Pallavas 
were gaining the ascendency in Southern India about 
this time and the Sangam works do not show any trace 
of this ascendency. (6) The Chola capital was Kaveri- 
pambattinam, with the alternative Uraiyur, and there 
is nothing of Tanjore or Gangaikonda Solapuram, the 
capitals during the Chola Ascendency Period (A. D. 900- 
1300 nearly). (7) There are abundant allusions and 
references, which can be explained only on the assump- 
tion of the Satavahana rulers of the Dekhan and their 
wars with the Kshetrapas. The Satavahana power 
came to an end about the middle of the third cen- 
tury A. D. ' These would warrant our regarding the 
Augustan Age — an age of great Buddhistic influence — 
to be coeval with the early centuries of the Christian 
Era, that is, a. d. 100-300 at the latest. 

One word more about Maiiimekhalai. Professor Vin- 
son opines that this work must have been of a later 
period than Virasoliyam, because the latter work makes 
no mention of it. It would be equally sound to say 
that the Bilappadhikdram must have been composed 
after the days of Nachchinarkiniyar, as the great com- 
mentator has not commented on the work. This 
•opinion of the learned Professor would have been 
received with respect had it not been that there is 
ample evidence of the two — 8ilappadhikaram and 
Manimekhalai — being companion works. The commen- 
tator of the former explains the connexion between 
the two and gives all the references in page ten of 

1 Footnote, p. 16, Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, 1904 

2 Dr. Bhandarkar's Early History of the DeJihan. 



SILAPPADHIKARAM AND MANIMEKHaLAI 383 

Pundit Swaminatha Ij'er's edition. Further, the intro- 
ductory passage to the work states clearly that the 
corn merchant Sattan it was, that induced the ascetic 
to take up the work, and the closing passage refers 
to its having been read out to him. All this apart, 
Silappadhiharam alone would be a defective composi- 
tion according to the rules of epic composition but 
for the supplementary Maiiimekhalai. The first has 
reference only to the first three of the four objects 
of life, and the second deals with the fourth. If these 
were not enough, the same Chera and the Chola 
rulers figure in both the works, and all traditional 
and other accounts agree in ascribing the latter to 
Sattan, the corn-merchant of Madura, who, as the 
critic par excellence of the Saiigam used to plant his 
stile into his head every time he had ' the misfortune ' 
to detect an error in works submitted to the Saiigam. 
The fact that one author of the eleventh or twelfth 
century does not mention a work of a number of 
centuries earlier is, at the best, very unreliable as 
evidence of relative chronology. There is a verse in 
praise of Manimekhalai, ascribed to Ambikhapathi the 
son of poet Kamban ; and Sivaprakasa Swami, a Saiva 
of much later times, refers to the same work in glowing 
terms. Buddhamitra might not have known the work, 
or much rather, might not have seen occasion to 
mention it or refer to it. 

It is high time that these time-honoured theories 
were given up and the question be approached with the 
disengagement demanded by historical research. The 
fact that we have not as yet come across inscriptions 
of a period earlier than the fifth century of the 
Christian era, leads to the inference in certain 
quarters, that the alphabets were not known in South 
India before the third century A. D. Most of the in- 
scriptions we know of, are inscriptions found in temples, 
and the great majority of temples were built and old 



384 ANCIENT INDIA 

I ones were endowed after the overthrow of the Bud- 
I dhistic ascendency in the South. Literature till recentlj', 
' was handed down mostly by word of mouth, though 
the stile and the palmyra leaf were often called into 
requisition as a valuable auxiliary. It will be some 
time before the literary history of the Tamil language 
attains definiteness but there is good reason to hope- 
that the trend of it will be along the lines indicated 
above. 



CHAPTER XYI 
SELF-IMMOLATION WHICH IS NOT SATI 

It is an undoubted fact in India, that self-immolation 
was practised from time immemorial, in one shape or 
another, the motive having been sometimes spiritual, 
but often entirely personal. The universally known 
practice called sati, where a woman burnt herself on 
the pyre of her husband, was only one form of it. 
AYhether the practice was Dravidian or Aryan in origin, 
we have instances of it occurring pretty frequently 
in South India. The earliest known, of an historical 
character, is the death of the wife of Bhiita Pandya, 
an early celebrity in Tamil Literature. One poem 
ascribed to her is to be found in the collection known 
as the Puraiidnuru. That self-immolation was not 
confined to women who had become widowed, but 
was common even among men, sometimes great warriors 
or learned Brahmans, is amply borne out by the great 
epics of India and the lesser ones alike. Arjuna was 
about to slay himself more than once, but the supreme 
example is that of Bharata, the younger brother of 
Eama, who was saved by the arrival of Hanuman with 
the happy message of Eama, just at the moment of 
entering the sacrificial-fire. It is of self-immolation 
within historical times that I shall concern myself here. 
There is a numerous class of archseological monu- 
ments in South India, known as Virakkal and Mas- 
tikkal. The latter term represents Mahdsati-kal, i.e. 
a stone erected in memory of one who performed a 
mahdsati, or act of self-immolation by a woman on 
25 



386 ANCIENT INDIA 

the pyre of her husband. The former is a stone erected 
in memory of a man who displayed valour, either on 
the field of battle or by some other act of personal 
courage. The erection of memorial stones in honour 
of a fallen hero is as old as the days of the Rural, i. e. 
at least as early as the initial centuries of the Christian 
era, and there are innumerable examples scattered 
through the Mysore Province. There are, nevertheless, 
others recording cases of self-immolation, which were 
the result of a vow, and in the volumes of the Epi- 
graphia Carnata'ka brought out by Mr. Rice, a number 
of inscriptions on these memorial stones have been 
brought to light. Most of them record acts performed 
in pursuance of vows rather of a civil than of a religious 
nature. 

That religion did indeed sanction self-immolation 
is borne out by the belief that such acts always forced 
open the gates of heaven to receive the performers, 
in spite of the cynical proverb that ' no one ought 
to pull out his tongue to die on an ekadasi day,' ^ and 
of the popular notion that the suicide cannot go to 
heaven, except by spending the rest of his allotted 
earthly span as a wandering devil, hovering about his 
usual habitat. Notwithstanding these beliefs, we have 
numerous instances of Jains performing the act of 
sallekhana, i. e. death brought on by starvation. The 
Chalukya emperor Ahavamalla Somesvara, when attack- 
ed with a malignant fever, ' went to Svarga (heaven) ' by 
plunging into the Tungabhadra after a regular con- 
fession of faith in Siva. In the sallekhana ceremony, 
men and women alike took part and devoted themselves 
to contemplation of the divinity for days without food 
or water, and we have numbers of instances in the 
6ravana Belagola Eecords. I now give a number of 



1 The eleventh day after full or new moon, regarded as a particularly 
good day on which to die. 



EXAMPLES OF MEN 387 

instances of men putting an end to themselves without 
any direct motive of religion, although faith, such as 
it was, did underlie most of the acts. 

Two inscriptions found in the Arkalgud Taluq in 
the Hassan district record instances of friends having 
thrown themselves into the fire out of sorrow for their 
late masters, the Ganga kings Nitimargga and Satya 
Vakya, respectively. A third case to the point is given 
in an inscription in Kadur, dated about a. d. 1180. The 
governor of Asandinad died, or, as the inscription has 
it, ' laid siege to Indra's AmaravatI '. On this Bam- 
mayya Nayaka, the slave of Sankamale, ' showed the 
way to Svarga'. The next instance, Masanayya's 
younger brother Boppanna, ' making good his word 
for the occasion ', went to heaven on the death of 
Tailappa, the ruler of Banavase, etc., in A. D. 1030. 
What the occasion was and why he took this vow is 
not vouchsafed to us to know. Perhaps, it was a vow 
that the minister's brother took to show his attachment 
to his sovereign. Such vows, once made, were ap- 
parently not merely expected to be carried out ; but 
sometimes the votary was asked to make good his 
word, as in the following instance. In the fifth year 
of Tribhuvanamalla Vira Somesvara, i. e. A. D. 1185 
his senior queen Lachchala Devi went to heaven. 
Boka, an officer of the king, had previously taken a 
vow: 'I will die with the Devi.' 'On his master 
calling him, saying, " you are the brave man who with 
resolution have spoken of taking off your head," with 
no light courage, Boka gave his head, while the world 
applauded, saying " He did so at the very instant". The 
word spoken with full resolve is not to be broken.' 

The aext instance I have to exhibit, records a vow 
"taken even without a personal motive, as in the 
preceding cases. A certain Tuluva, Chandiya, took a 
vow ' not to let his finger-nails grow ', if the Bana- 
vase Fort should be disposed of in a manner he did 



388 ANCIENT INDIA 

not approve of. It so happened that Ballavarasa 
and Satyasraya Deva jointly made a grant of the fort 
and a tetnple endowment in the twelve-thousand 
country. Upon this the Tuluva, Chandiya, ' cutting 
off the finger which he had given at the Permalu 
temple and climbing the Bherundesvara Pillar leaped 
upon the point of a spear and gained the world of 
gods.' 

Here is another vow made from an entirely different 
motive. Votive offerings of the nature of that following 
are made nowadays also, but by the person who is 
the direct recipient of the favour sought. This case 
is, however, peculiar from the fact that the vow was 
taken, not by the party directly concerned, but by a 
friend. In a. d. 1123 while Vikramaditya VI was 
emperor, and his governor of Banavase was Eamayya, 
the Mahasamanta (great lord) Bopparasa and his wife 
Siriya Devi, surrounded by all the subjects, were in 
the temple at the rice-fields, the cowherd, Marana's 
son Deki Nayaka, made a vow, saying : ' If the king 
obtain a son, I will give my head to swing on the 

pole for the God of Kondasabhavi ' This is 

nothing more, so far as the details of the deed are 
concerned, than the hook-swinging of modern times, 
but, as has been pointed out above, the vow is taken 
by an attendant and not by the principal party. 

All these instances show clearly that, when there 
was enough attachment to persons, or even to ideas, 
the people of India did not display much respect for 
life, but showed themselves ready to offer ' even the 
most precious thing on earth, as though it were a 
careless trifle.' The supreme instance of such throwing 
away of the most precious thing was the suicide,. purely 
from personal affection, of the general of Vira Bellala, 
Kuvara Lakshmana (or Kumara Lakshma) with his 
wife Suggala Devi and the army which was attached 
to him (at least of a select part of it). Kuvara Lakshma 



KUMARA IiAKSHMANA OB LAKSHMA 389 

was both minister and general of Vira Bellala and 
cherished by him as his son. ' Between servant and 
king there was no difference ; the glory and marks of 
royalty were equal in both.' ' His wealth and his 
life Kuvara Lakshma devoted for the gifts and victories 
of Vira Bellala Deva, and conquered the world for him 
as far as the southern ocean.' His wife was Suggala 
Devi, who also wore a todar (a hollow anklet, with 
pebbles or precious stones inside) like the husband, 
as a mark of her unswerving devotion to her lord. He 
had a compan)- of a thousand warriors, vowed to live 
and die with him. He set up a vira sasana (which is 
recorded on a pillar near the Hoysalesvara temple at 
Halebid), on which are placed images of himself and 
Garuda, indicating the latter alone as his equal in 
devotion to his master. ' \Yhile all the world was 
praising him as the founder of the greatness and in- 
crease of king Bellala and the cause of his prosperity, 
the Dandesa Lakshma, together with his wife, mounted 
upon the splendid stone pillar, covered ■« ith the poetical 
vira sasana, proclaiming his devotion to his master : 
and on the pillar they became united with Lakshmi 
and with Garuda.' The inscription is left incomplete, 
but the sculptures on the pillar, being all figures of 
men with swords, cutting off their own arms and 
legs, and even their own heads, indicate unmistakably 
what had been done. This example was followed by 
others, and acts of such wholesale immolation are on 
record on the occasion of the death of each of the 
warlike successors of Vira Bellala. 

Useless waste of life as this appears to us, and entirely 
needless to demonstrate faithful attachment, it still 
shows a depth of devotion and a sacrifice of that 
most precious legacy, life in this world, which ought 
to evoke the admiration of all, however misguided 
was the zeal in a cause hardly calling for the sacrifice. 



CHAPTEE XVII 
THE AGNIKULA : THE FIBE-BACE 

In one of his interesting contributions entitled Some 
Problems of Ancie^it Indian History, published in the 
Journal of the Boyal Asiatic Society, 1905, p. 1 ff., 
Dr. Hoernle regards the Paramara Eajputs as the only 
family that laid claim to belong to the Agnikula or 
Fire-race before the time of the poet Chand (loc. cit., 
p. 20), and, so far, the evidence all seems to point to 
any such claim not being found earlier than the middle 
of the eleventh century. That, however, does not 
preclude an earlier existence of the legend. It v?ould 
be interesting, therefore, if the legend could be traced 
to an earlier period than that of the Paramaras of 
Malva. In the early classical literature of the Tamils, 
there is a reference to this same legend, and there 
appears to have been in that part of India a family 
of ancient chiefs who claimed descent from the sacri- 
ficial fire. 

There have been in the Tamil land a certain number 
of chiefs, whose names have been handed down to 
posterity as the Last Seven Patrons of Letters, the 
patron par excellence among them having been Pari 
of Parambanadu. This chief had a life-long friend 
in the person of a highly esteemed Brahman, Kapilar, 
who was a poet sui generis in a particular department 
of the poetical art. ' The three crowned kings of the 
south,' — the Chera, the Chola, and the Pandya, — growing 
jealous of the power and prosperity of Pari as a patron 
of poets, laid siege conjointly to his hill-fort, Mullur. 
Pari having fallen a victim to this combination, it fell 



IRUNGOVBL OP ABA YAM 391 

to the lot of his Brahman friend to get his daughters 
suitably married, to bring about acceptable marriages 
being one of the six special duties of Brahmans in 
the social system. He, therefore, took the girls over 
successively to two chiefs, Yichchikkon and Pah Kadi 
Mai Irungovel of Arayaui. This latter chief is addressed 
by the poet in these terms : ' Having come out of the 
sacrificial fire-pit of the Eishi— having ruled over the 
camp of Dvarapati, whose high walls lonked as though 
they were built of copper — having come after forty-nine 
generations of patrons never disgusted with giving — 
thou art the patron among patrons.' ^ The allusion 
to the coming out of the sacrificial fire of the sage 
cannot but refer to the same incident as the other 
versions discussed by Dr. Hoernle. The chief thus 
addressed was a petty chief of a place called Arayam, 
composed of the smaller and the larger cities of thiit 
name, in the western hill-country, somewhere in the 
regions of the "Western Ghats in jNIysore. 

The more important question, exactly relevant to 
the discussion, is : What is the time of this author 
and his hero ? This has, so far, reference to times 
anterior to epigraphical records, and has therefore to 
be considered on literary data alone. This poet, 
Kapilar, is connected with a number of chiefs and kings, 
and is one of a galaxy of poets of high fame in classical 
Tamil literature. According to the Tirtivilaiyddal 
Puranavi, Kapilar was born in Tiruvadaviir, and was 
a Brahman by birth. The tradition that he was one 
of the seven children of the Brahman Bhagavan, 
through the non-caste woman Adi, is not well supported 
by reliable literary evidence. lint if this tradition 
be true (there are some inconsistent elements in it), 
he must have been the brother of Tiruvalluvar, the 
author of the Ein-al, ;ind of the poetess Avvaiyar. This 

1 Purandnurii, 200, 201. Pandit Swaminatha Iyer's Edition. 



392 ANCIENT IKDIA 

relationship, however, is nowhere in evidence in contem- 
porary literature. 

So far as they are available at present, his works, 
all of them being a ' Paradise of Dainty Devices ' in 
Tamil literature, are : — 

1. The seventh of the Padirruppattu, the Ten-Tens, 
in praise of the Cheraman Selvakkadutigovaliyadan. 

2. Kuri'ijippdttu of Pattuppattu, the Ten-Idylls, to 
teach Brahasta, the Aryan king, Tamil. 

3. Aingurunuru, Kurinji Section, the whole anthology 
having been collected and brought out by Kiidalur 
Kilar for the Chera ' Prince of the Elephant-eye ' 
(Yanaikkatchey) . 

4. Inna, ' that which is evil and as such to be 
avoided,' 40. 

5. Twenty stanzas in Narrinai, 29 in Eurunthogai, 
16 in Ahananuru, and 31 in Purancinuru. 

Kapilar appears, from his works, and from the high 
esteem in which he was held by his contemporaries, 
poets and potentates, and from the great approval 
with which he is quoted by grammarians and commen- 
tators alike, to have been a specialist in composing 
poems relating to Kurinji, i. e. the hill-country, this 
being the scene of the inward feelings evoked, such 
as love, and the outward action induced by inward 
feelings. As to details of his life, we have but little 
information. Of course, he sang in praise of the 
Cheraman Selvakkadungo, and received a large 
reward. Otherwise, he appears to have been the 
life-long guest and intimate friend of his patron. Pari 
of Parambunadu. It was after the death of this 
chief that the poet went about with his daughters to 
obtain for them eligible husbands, and that the allu- 
sive reference to the Agnikula descent was made for 
Irungovel. 

This Pari of Parambunadu was one of the Seven 
Patrons, besides the Three Kings, who flourished about 



THE SEVEN PATRONS 393 

"the same generation in South India.* All these are 
celebrated in the poem called Sirupanarruppadai of 
Nalliir Nattattanar, who sang in praise of Brumanattu 
Nalliyakkodan, as a more liberal patron than the Three 
Kings and the Seven Patrons. These poems are rhap- 
sodies of a Homeric character, sung on occasions by 
wandering minstrels, who received sumptuous rewards 
for their labour. The plan of the Sirupan is that a 
wandering minstrel is at a loss to know where he could 
find a patron ; and another, returning from the court 
of the patron, solves the puzzle by pointing to the 
particular personage who is the object of praise. As 
3) rule, therefore, these poems are directly addressed 
to the patron by the poet. And this circumstance makes 
them of great importance for purposes of the history 
and social condition of those times. Unfortunately, 
however, the author does not mention the Three Kings 
by any specific names — a matter of indifference to 
them, as they could not have had any idea of the rise 
of laborious students of history among their posterity. 
But the Seven Patrons are referred to specifically 
enough. And certain of the details relating to the 
kings themselves give important clues. The Seven 
Patrons are, in the order given by the poet : Pehan, 
round about the Palnis ; Pari, along the Western Ghats 
further north ; Kari, round about Tirukkovalur in 
South Arcot ; Aay, round about Padiyil Hill in the west 
of Tinnevelly ; Adiyaman of Tagadur, either the place 
of that name in the Mysore country or Dharmapuri 
preferably ' ; Nalli, of Malanadu (there is nothing else 
by which to fix his exact locality) ; and Ori, with his 
territory round about Kolli Malai in Salem. The 
■Chola is associated with Uraiyilr, and the Chera with 
Vanji, specifically, and not in the general terras in 

1 Patiupattu, Pandit Swaminatha Iyer's Edition, 3rd Poem. 

2 See Indian Antiquary, vol. xxii, pp. 66 and 143, and Epigrapjtia 
Indica, vol. vi, p. 331. 



394 ANCIENT INDIA 

which the Maharajas of Travancore are nowadays 
styled. 

Kapilar is generally associated with Paranar ; and 
the two together are usually spoken of by the elder 
commentators Kapila-Paranar. That this is due to 
contemporaneousness, is proved by the fact that Kapilar 
was an elder contemporary of ' the Chera of the 
Elephant-look' in whose i-eign the A inguru7iuru collec- 
tion, of which Kapilar composed the third part, was- 
made by Kudalur Kilar, a Sangam celebrity. Further^ 
both these poets, Kapilar and Paranar, interceded 
with Pehan on behalf of his wife when he deserted 
her in favour of a sweetheart. Thus, then, Kapilar and 
Paranar were contemporaries, and the latter celebrated 
SerigQttuvan Sera in the third section of the Ten-Tens. 
This, therefore, takes the Agnikula tradition to the- 
age of Seiiguttuvan, who was the grandson of Kari- 
kala-Chola. This Karikala is placed in the Leyden 
Grant and in the Kalingattupparani far anterior to 
Parantaka I; and the 8 ilappadhikdram itself makes 
Senguttuvan the contemporary of a Gajabahu of 
Ceylon, whose date is held to be A. d. 113-135. 

The name of Pari had become proverbial for liber- 
ality in the days of Sundaramurti-Nayanar. This latter 
must have lived centuries before Rajaraja the Great, 
as some of his grants make donations to the image of 
the Nayanar. It was Ra.jaraja's contemporary, Nambi 
Andar Nambi, who elaborated the Tiruttondattogai 
of Sundara. On these and other considerations, Sundara- 
murti has been allotted to the eighth century of the 
Christian era, and therefore Kapilar and others have- 
to be looked for at a respectable distance anterior to 
this. For, between the date of Sundara and the fifth 
century A. c, the Pallavas of Kanchi occupied the- 
premier position in South India, and there is absolutely 
no reference to this in the body of the literature ta 
which the works under consideration belong. 



TRADITION TRACEABLE TO FIRST CENTURY A. D. 395 

The Cher.i capital, as given in all these works, is 
Vanji, on the west coast, at the mouth of the Periyar ; 
while the Chola capital was Uraiyfir. In the later 
period, from the days of Kulasokharalvar, the Chera 
capital certainly was Quilon, This change is said to 
have taken place, according to tradition, after the 
days of Cheraman-Perumal, who was a contemporary 
of Snndara. Besides this, the language of the whole 
of the south was Tamil ; Malayalam had not yet 
become differentiated from it. These considerations, 
again, would lead us to refer Kapilar and the galaxy 
to a period anterior to the seventh century, according 
to even the most unfavourable estimate. But, in 
point of fact, the time referred to is much earlier 
than this. The contemporaneousness of Gajabahu 
refers the period of Kapilar to the second century a. d. ; 
and this, so far, has not been shown to be incorrect. 
There was at any rate a king Gajabahu previous to 
the days of Mahanaman, the author of the earlier 
part of the Mahdvanisa. 

Thus, then, the tradition of a race of rulers whose 
eponymous ancestor was born from the sacrificial fire 
of a Eishi is far older than the period for which Dr. 
Hoernle has found authority. This does not necessitate 
the affiliation of the one dynasty to the other. It 
only shows that the legend is very much older, and 
might have been laid hold of by ruling families at 
great distances, and otherwise unconnected, for the 
embelhshment of their genealogies, just as in the 
case of the heroic Greeks of yore. 



CHAPTEE XVIII 
THE AGE OF NAMMlLVAB 

Under the unpretentious heading Some Points in 
the ArchcBological Report for 1902-3, Mr. Pichaimuttu, 
B. A., L.T., discusses in the pages of the Christian 
College Magazine for February, 1904, the date of 
Nammalvar, one of the twelve Vaishnava saints of 
Southern India and arrives at the conclusion that ' it 
is likely he lived in the ninth century A. n.' Mr. 
Gopiaatha Eao, m.a., arrives at the same conclusion 
by another line of argument. This conclusion, if 
-correct, would be another mile-stone in Tamil literary 
history, and it will be excused if I venture in the 
same field and offer a few of my own observations on 
the same subject, having had occasion to study some 
parts at least of the literature bearing on this question. 
Before, however, proceeding to state my own views 
on the question, it will be well to pass in review the 
arguments adduced in favour of the conclusions already 
arrived at by those that have preceded me in this 
•question. 

Mr. Pichaimuttu arrives at his conclusion from the 
following considerations ; - 

' The works of Nammalvar are called Dravida Veda. 
Madurakavi had them published and established their 
sacredness before a council of 300 men under the 
presidency of the royal poet, Kamba Nattalvar, during 
the ^anga days of the Pandya kings.' ' It is popularly 
supposed that Kambanadan visited the Pandya capital 
of Madura. It is likely that, in one of his visits, he 



REVIEW OP ARGUMENTS 39T 

approved of the works of Kammalvar, a descendant of 
the Pandya kings.' Mr. Pichaimuttu further observes 
that there was a Vaishnava revival between the eighth 
and the eleventh centuries A. d. ' Before that the 
prevailing religion of South India was the Saivitic 
religion. Before the days of Manikkavasagar, the 
Pandya and Ila kings were Buddhists.' 

Mr. Gopinatha Rao whose article appeared in a 
recent number of Sen Tamil, the organ of the 
Madura Tamil Saiigam, argued that, as Nathamuni 
learnt the TiruvTnjmoU from Madurakavi, the disciple 
of Nammalvar, this last and Nathamuni must have 
been contemporaneous, and inferred the ninth century 
A.D. from the recognized contemporaneity of Kamban 
and Nathamuni. 

Pending a fuller examination of the history of the 
Alvars, which I hope to find time to make at an 
early date, I may here examine these considerations 
adduced as making for the ninth century a.d., as the 
epoch of this Alvar, one of the oldest and, in fact, the 
greatest among the Alvars, and suggest what appears 
to me the more probable age of Nammalvar. 

To take up Mr. Gopinatha Rao's case first, it is no 
doubt true according to the Guriqmramparai (the 
traditional chronicle of successive gurus of the Vaish- 
navas) that Nathamuni the first of the Acharyas 
(preceptors as opposed to the Alvars or saints) went to 
Alvar Tirunagari to gain a knowledge of the Tiruvoymoli 
(the sacred word of Nammalvar) not from the Alvar 
or his disciple but to learn it from any one that 
knew it, having failed to obtain knowledge of it from 
every other probable source of the knowledge. This 
had been published and learnt up largely for a time ; 
but had fallen into desuetude. Nathamuni attempted 
a revival. No doubt the story has it that he got it 
at last from Nammalvar and Madurakavi both appearing 
to him for this special purpose. Long before the days 



398 ANCIENT INDIA 

of Nathamuni, the latest of the Alvars, Tiruman- 
gaimaanan had built a shrine and arranged for the 
recital of the TiruvoymoU in Srirangam. This arrange- 
ment having been allowed to fall into desuetude, 
Nathamuni had to revive it and for this very purpose 
he had to make the pilgrimage to Alvar Tirunagari. 
I shall show other reasons for regarding the view as 
being untenable and will take up the other case for 
consideration. 

Nammalvar's works are not merely called, by the 
courtesy of posterity, the Drdvida Veda, but are 
professedly the rendering of the Vedas in Tamil. 
The Tiruv'iymoli 1,000 being the substance of the 
Sama Veda, the Tiruviruttam 100, the Tiruvasiriyam 
7 and Periyatiruvandadi 100 are respectively the 
rendering, in brief, of the Eig, Yajus and Atharva 
Veda. 

According to tradition no doubt Madurakavi published 
the TiruvoymoU and may have got its sacredness 
acknowledged in the Saiigam Assembly — but certainly 
not under the presidency of Kamban, for Kamban 
never did preside, nor ever could have, over the 
Saiigam, as will presently be shown. 

Kamban, the author of the Bdmdyanam, often refers 
in the course of his work to a patron, not a royal 
sovereign, but a plain Mudaliar by name Sadayappah 
of Vennainalliir. It is highly improbable that, if ever 
he had a royal patron, he would not have mentioned 
his name, while he systematically refers to Sadayappah 
at regular intervals. Again so far as I know the story, 
he is said to have betaken himself to the Chera court 
and not to the Pandya, but the details of the story 
stamp it as untrue in the main. Even according to 
tradition the ^angam is said to have gone out of 
existence with Kun Pandya or Sundara Pandya or 
Nedumaran the contemporary and disciple of Tirugnana 
Sambanda (seventh century a. D.). 



VAISHNAVA REVIVAL 399 

If Kamban was ever in a position to preside over 
the Sangam, how was it that he had to wander from 
place to place seeking approval for his Bamdyunam ? 
He had to get the approval of the 3,000 Brahmans of 
Chidambaram and of the assembly of divines at Sri- 
rangam. Over this assembly presided Nathamuni, and 
it was to please him and his confreres that he had 
to compose and recite the Shacjagoparandadi 100 in 
praise of Nammalvar. In the face of this work, it is 
passing strange that the two gentlemen should have 
so thoroughly mistaken the relation of Kamban to 
Nammalvar. 

Further Mr. Pichaimuttu states that there was a 
Vaishnava revival between the eighth and the eleventh 
centuries A. D. It may be so, but what is there to 
connect the Alvars with this revival ? It is, to say the 
least, misleading to state that the prevailing religion 
before that time was Saiva. If it does nothing else, 
this begs the question. We have abundant reference to 
Vaishnavas and their temples much anterior to this, 
not only in literature but also in inscriptions. Not to 
mention others Kochengaii Chola built temples to 
Vishnu and Siva alike ; and this could not have been 
merely for theoretical impartiality without a practical 
demand. Paramesvara Varman Pallava and his grand- 
father built temples to Vishnu at Kanchi and Maha- 
balipuram. That the Pandya and Ila kings were 
Buddhist before the days of Manikkavasagar proves 
nothing in this connexion, as in fact Kun Pandya was 
a Buddhist. The fact is that from very early times 
the votaries of these different religions lived together, 
and it did not make much difference generally what 
the particular persuasion of the ruler for the time 
being was. 

To return to Nammalvar. I have already pointed 
out that Nammalvar's works had long been published 
and had acquired wide celebrity, but could not be 



400 ANCIENT INDIA 

obtained in the days of Nathamuni except at the A.lvar's 
birthplace. In those days this celebrity could not have 
been attained in a short period of time. Nathamuni 
was, according to tradition, the contemporary of 
Kamban whose work Shadag'parandddi deifies the 
Alvar. This circumstance again suggests considerable 
lapse of time. Eamanuja, the famous reformer of the 
Vaishnavas, came in the fifth generation from Natha- 
muni, not in official succession only but also in actual 
descent ; and Eamanuja's life, A. d. 1017-1137, is coeval 
with the Chola ascendency in Southern India. There- 
fore, we must assign Nathamuni at least to a century 
earlier, and this brings us quite close to the traditional 
Saka 807 (A. d. 885) for Kamban's Bdvidyanam. No 
sound argument against this date for Kamban has, 
so far as I know, been brought forward except the 
statement that the Chola ruler at the time was a 
Eajendra (identified with Kulottunga I).* The name 
Eajendra is so common among the rulers of the Chola 
dynasty that we cannot at all be positive as to which 
personage it actually refers to without extraneous sup- 
port. Even for this mere statement there is no very 
good authority. If then Nathamuni lived about A. d. 
900 we must go back for Tirumangai Alvar a century or 
two, so as to allow time for his arrangements at Srl- 
rangam for the worship of Nammalvar to fall into 
desuetude. We must go back again from this time for 
Nammalvar, if already he had become a saint worthy 
of being worshipped in a public place of worship of the 
dignity of ' The Temple ' of the Vaishnavas (Sriran- 
^am). 

Eeserving a fuller examination of Tirumangai Alvar's 
history for a future occasion, it is quite in place to re- 
mark here that his and Kulasekharalvar's works were 
considered of sufficient sanctity to warrant provision 

1 Vide ante note on p. 378. 



CONCLUSION 401 

being made lor their recital by Prince Chola Kerala, 
vicero)' of Kongu about a. d. 1050. This apart, one of 
the most unfamiliar of the birudas or titles of Tiru- 
mangai Alvar had already become a name assumed by 
Yaishnavas, as we have Arattamukkidasan among 
the inscriptions of Eajaraja II about a. d. 1150. To 
crown all, there are inscriptions in the temple at 
Ukkal near Mamandur dated about a. d. 1000, which 
gives the name of the G-od as Tiruv5ymoli Deva. Tiru- 
voymoli is the work sui generis of Nammalvar, and that 
a god should be named after it speaks for considerable 
antiquity. Dr. Hultzsch is of opinion that 'Nammalvar 
must have lived centuries before a.d. 1000.' 

Coupled with these considerations, there is the fact 
that Nammalvar deliberately worked at popularizing 
the ' hidden lore' the Vedas. This could have been 
only when the Dravidian Hindus were preparing for 
the supersession of Buddhism by Brahmanism, no more 
to be the recondite lore of the learned Brahmans only. 
This theory finds powerful support in the fact that the 
works of Nammalvar, in comparison with those of later 
Alvars, are peculiarly free from any caustic reflections 
on the Saivas. Under the circumstances, I am inclined 
to think that we shall have to look for the age of 
Nammalvar in the period of struggle between Buddhism 
and Brahmanism for mastery in South India, and that 
period is between A. D. 500 and 700. 



•JG 



CHAPTER XIX 

TIBUMANGAI ALVAB AND HIS DATE 

Paradoxical as it may seem, it is nevertheless the 
fact that, although a great deal has been written 
concerning the Vaishnava saints and devotees, their 
history has yet to be vyritteu. There has, unfortunately, 
been too great a tendency in the writers, great and 
small, to refer them to periods, more as it suited 
their preconceived notions as to the recent origin of 
Vaishnavaism in general, than on any dispassionate 
examination of such evidence, imperfect in its nature 
of course, as is available. It would not be going over 
quite a beaten track to bring together here such 
historical information as has been brought to light, 
setting aside the extreme Saiva arguments of Tiru- 
malaikkolundu Pillai and his school on the one side, 
and the ardent Vaishnava view of A. Govinda Charlu 
and his school on the other. This is not because I 
do not appreciate their learning, but because the one 
school would deem nothing impossible of belief, while 
the other would see nothing that could not be made 
to lend itself to giving the most ancient of these 
saints a date somewhere about the end of the first 
millennium after Christ. Gopinatha Eao belongs to a 
different school, and in his recent ambitious attempt 
<in the Madras Beview for 190-5) at a history of 
Vaishnavaism in South India, he has come to certain 
conclusions, which would certainly have commanded 



ALVAES AND ACHARYAS 403 

.assent, but for a too transparent tendency to establish 
certain conclusions. 

Without pretending to say the last word on the 
subject, I shall merely put forward certain facts and 
arguments I have been able to gather in my studies, 
and the notes that I have made from the writings of 
some of my friends, who have been pursuing similar 
research, and leave it to my readers to draw their 
own conclusions, while not depriving myself of the 
pleasure of making such inferences as appear to me 
warranted. I may at the outset acknowledge my 
obligations to my friend, Pandit Eaghavaiyangar, 
Assistant Editor of the Sen Tamil, who has with 
remarkable courtesy placed some of his notes at my 
disposal, and has been of great help to me in looking 
up references to literature. 

The Vaishnavas, like their confrh-es of other sects, 
^;race their hierarchj' of gurus (preceptors in religion) 
from God himself. Putting the translunary part on 
one side, and coming down to terra firma, their list 
consists of names divided into two broad classes, entitled, 
in Vaishnava parlance, the Alvars and Acharyas. There 
are twelve among the former, and a large number 
among the latter, which is being added to by each 
separate sect or unit at the decease of the existing 
guru for the time being. Without going into the 
details of the hagiology of these saints and preceptors, 
we are enabled to collect the Alvars, from the tradi- 
tional accounts alone, into three groups — the ancient, 
the middle, and the last. 

The list of the twelve Alvars, with their traditional 
dates of birth, is as follows : — 

^Poygai Alvar ... ... 4203 B.C. 

Bhutattar ... ... 4203 „ 

Pey Alvar ... ... 4203 „ 

VTirumalisai Alvar,.. ... 4203 „ 



404 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Last.. 



/■Nammalvar ... ... 3102 b. c 

Madhurakavi ... ... 3102 „ 

ikfidi^e.-j Kulasgkhara ... ... 3075 „ 

jPeriy aivar ... ... 3056 „ 

'Andal ... ... 3005 „ 

Tondaradippodi ... ... 2814 „ 

Tiruppan Alvar ... 2760 „ 

Tirumangai Alvar ... 2706 „ 

Disregarding these apparently definite dates, in 
•which, however, most Tamil works, particularly those 
of a religious character, are peculiarly weak, it is still 
possible to regard this traditional order as fairly in 
chronological sequence. Even the Vaishnava hagiologists 
have very little to say about the first group. Their 
information about the second is meagre, while of the 
third they have something to say that may be historical. 
The name at the head of the paper is the very last, 
and there are certain facts concerning him, which 
cannot lightly be passed over by any one who tries to 
examine the chronology of the Alvars. 

Tirumangai Alvar is the author of the largest 
number (1,361 stanzas, of the 4,000 verses of the 
Vaishnava Prahhandam) , Nammalvar coming next 
with a number almost as great. He belonged to the 
Kallar caste and was born at Kurayalur in Ali Nadu in 
the Shiyali taluk of the Tanjore district. There he 
pursued, when he grew up to man's estate, the 
profession of his father, which was of a duplex 
character — the government of a small district under 
the reigning Chola and the playing the knight of the 
highway, in both of which capacities he appears to 
have achieved great distinction. The critical stage of 
his life was reached when he fell in love with the 
foundling daughter of a Vaishnava physician, who would 
not marry him unless he reformed and became a 
Vaishnava, He went to Tirunaraiyur, near Kumbha- 



LIFE STORY 405 

tonam, and there received the sacrament. He was 
not yet to gain the object of his desire, as the young 
lady insisted upon his feeding 1,008 Vaishnavas a day 
for a whole year. This he could do only by plundering 
wayfarers, which he did, consoling himself with the 
idea that he was doing it in the name of God. A 
second transformation was yet in store for him. One 
night he waylaid a Brahman bridal party, and was 
probably stcicken with remorse for the very enormity 
of this deed. He there received from the Brahman, 
who was no other than God himself come in human 
shape to fulfil his ends on earth, that mysterious 
" mantra ' the name Xarayana. On being thus blessed, 
he broke out into verse and his first decad of verse 
makes this confession. Thereafter be began visiting 
all the shrines sacred to Vishnu, and at last settled in 
Srirangam, to spend the rest of his days in the service 
of God, and to rebuild some parts and remodel others 
of the great shrine, the funds for which he had to 
find by demolishing the great Buddhist shrine at 
Negapatam. Having done this to his satisfaction and 
provided for the recital of Nammalvar's TiruvuymoU 
annually at Srirangam he passed away. This, without 
any of the embellishments of the hagiologists, is the 
life-story of the man but not of the saint, for which 
the curious may read A. Govinda Charlu's Holy Lives 
of the Alvdrs. 

Let us now proceed to examine what historical reliance 
can be placed upon this story. The materials for 
the history of these sainted personages are entirely 
traditional, and we can attach to the details only as 
much value as can safely be attached to mere traditions. 
The general tenor of the life may be correct, while we 
ought not to insist on details with too much certainty. 
Even in this modified sense the story does not 
enlio'hten us as to the age of the Alvar and his actual 
doings. But there are the monuments of the labours 



406 ANCIENT INDIA 

of Tirumangaimannan, namely, his works in the 
Prahhanda and the buildings he undertook in the 
temple at Srirangam. It is certainly very unfortunate 
that tradition has not preserved the name of the Chola 
ruler whose vassal the Alvar was. This omission is 
significant of the fact that he was not contemporaneous 
with any great Chola ruler, although even these latter 
are never named specifically enough under similar 
circumstances. That he was the latest of the saints is 
amply borne out by the fact that he celebrates most, 
if not all, of the now well-known temples to Vishnu in 
India, while others celebrate only a few. The destruc- 
tion of the rich Buddhist sanctuary at Negapatam 
and the frequent references he makes to the Buddhists 
themselves in his works refer us to times anterior to 
the centuries of Chola ascendency, which is again 
indirectly borne out by the robber chieftain having 
been successful in his defiance of his Chola suzerain. 
That Negapatam was the head-quarters of a Buddhist 
sect is borne out by the references to the place in 
such Tamil classics as the Permumhandrruppaiai. 
This fact is attested even to-day by a place not far 
off being known as Buddankottam, although it is now 
a Brahman village. These facts, in conjunction with 
references to the Pallavas in the Periyatirumoli, would 
refer the Alvar to the age of the Pallava ascendency 
previous to the rise of that Chola power which 
wielded imperial sway over South India from the 
tenth to the fourteenth century after Christ. 

The Pallava ascendency was coeval with that of the 
early Western Chalukya period and vanished not long 
after the rise of the Rashtrakutas, who overthrew 
their enemies, the Western Chalukyas. Before adducing 
positive evidence that tends towards this conclusion, 
we have to examine critically the opinions offered by 
others as to the age of the Alvar. Bishop Caldwell 
and those that followed him could be excused, if 



REVIEW OP EVIDENCE 407 

they held that these were disciples of Eamanuja, 
as nowadaj-s Gopinatha Eao is willing to believe 
that Tirumangai Alvar and other later Alvars were 
contemporaries, if not actiiallj' disciples, of Alavandar, 
Kamanuja's great-grandfather. In support of this 
view he quotes a stanza from a work called Koiloluhu, 
which is a history of the Srirangam temple. In the 
stanza a street, called after Tirumangai Alvar, comes 
nest to a street called after a Eajamahendra. This 
latter is identified with the son and successor of the 
Eajendra who fought the battle of Koppam in a. d. 1053. 
Hence he infers that Tirumangai Alvar must have 
lived in the latter half of the eleventh century.^ 

That Eamanuja had read and had derived much 
wisdom from the works of this last of the Alvars is 
in evidence, so as to satisfy the most fastidious student 
of history, in the centum known as the Rdmdnuja- 
nUrrandhddhi, a work composed during the lifetime 
of Eamanuja by a convert and pupil of his own disciple 
Kurattalvar. This connexion between Amudan, the 
author of the centum, and Kurattalvar is borne out 
by stanza seven of the centum and the old Guruparam- 
parai of Pinbalagya Jiyar, stanzas 8-21. The former 
acknowledges R<lmanuja's indebtedness to all the twelve 
Alvars and the two early Acharyas, Nathamuni and 
his grandson Alavandar. This inconvenient piece of 
evidence has been accorded no place in the array of 
evidence and aathorities passed in review by Gopi- 
natha Eao. 

To pass on to the positive evidence available, the 
Vaishnavas always regarded the Alvars higher in 
spiritual estate than the Acharyas, not merely as 
such, but also as being more ancient, and they must 
have had some reason for making this distinction. If 
Tirumangai Alvar and others of that class had been 

1 Madras Review, February and Jlay, 1905. — History of the Srivaish- 
nava movement. 



408 ANCIENT INDIA 

disciples of Alavandar, why call this latter only an 
Acharya and his disciples Alvars, the idols of the 
Alvars being placed in temples and worshipped, while 
those of most of the Acharyas are not. Leaving this 
aside as the outcome of a most unreasonable partiality 
' on the part of the Vaishiiavas, we have other evidence 
to fall back upon. Inscriptions of Eajaraja II, about 
the middle of the twelfth century, contain the unusual 
name Arattamukkidasan — the first part of which is 
a special title of Tirumangai Alvar. Next, prince 
Chola Kerala, about the middle of the eleventh century, 
made provision for the recital of Tii-unedunddndaham,^ 
one of the works of Tirumangai Alvar, which would 
be extraordinary if he had been living at the time 
and working to accumulate merit and earn his title 
to saintliness, especially as his life was, during the 
greater part of it, far from saintly. 

That Tirumangai Alvar was not a disciple of Ala- 
vandar is also made probable by a stanza in praise of 
his work by Tirukkottiyur Nambi, from whom Eama- 
nuja had to learn, which goes to show that this 
Alvar's works had been regularly studied and handed 
down from preceptor to disciple for some time at 
least. Again, the conquering Chola brothers, Rajadhi- 
raja who fell at the battle of Koppam, and his younger 
brother Rajendra who succeeded him, had an elder 
brother by name Alavandan. If this name was given 
to him because of the Acharya, the latter must have 
been aaterior to him by a considerable interval, as even 
now the name is specially Vaishnava. 

This would make Alavandar's grandfather iSTatha- 
muni much prior to the age ascribed to him by 
Gopinatha Rao. He lays much stress upon the fact 
that Nathamuni was accustomed to going to Gangai- 
konda Cholapuram, founded by Gangaikonda Chola, 

1 Epigraphist' s Report for 1900, p. 10. 



NATHA-MUNI, EiKLY TENTH CBNTDET 40^ 

in A. D. 1024. This is a detail which cannot be looked 
upon as a crucial piece of evidence, as it is possible 
that the hagiolo^^ists alone are responsible for it. 
When the earliest among them wrote the lives of 
their saints, they were so accustomed to Gangaikonda 
Cholapuram as the Choi a capital, that when they heard 
that Xathamuni visited the Chola ruler, they naturally 
put down Gangaikonda Cholapuram as the Chola 
capital. It certainly would not be unreasonable to 
ascribe Nathamuni to a period in the earlier half of 
the tenth century a. d. This is exactly the conclusion 
warranted by the proper understanding of the tradi- 
tional account, which is that Nathamuni was born 
in A.D. 382 and that lie was in wjiat is called Yoga 
Samddhl for 340 years. This would give the date A. d. 
9-2'2 for the death of Xathamuni, which is not at all 
improbable, taking all circumstances into consideration. 
But why did the hagioloi;ists then ascribe this long 
life or long death in life to Nathamuni? The expla- 
nation is not far to seek. They believed, and the 
Vaishnavas do believe even now, that there was an 
unbroken succession of these saints, and unfortunately 
they found a gap between Nathamuni and the last 
Alvar. This they bridged over in this clumsy fashion.'- 
If the above view of the connexion between the 
Alvars and the Acharyas is correct, then we shall have 
to look for Tirumangai Alvar two or three centuries 
earlier than Nathamuni, and this takes us to the 
seventh or the eighth century of the Christian era. 
This is certainly warranted by the frequent references 
to the Pallavas * and by none at all to the modern 
Cholas, even to the Chola Rajamahendra, who did so 

1 If Kalhana, the professed historian of Kasmir, did the same with 
respect to the early ru)jrs of Kasmir in the first centuries A. D., is it 
wonderful thab these h i;,'iologists fell into such a trap? 

2 See p. 4SG, vol. in, Sen Tamil, Pandit M. Raghavaiyangar's 
article. 



410 ANCIENT INDIA 

.much for the Srirangam temple. Even according to 
Gopinatha Eao, the only Chola that is referred to 
elaborately by the Alvar is the ancient Chola Koch- 
chengan in the decad regarding Tirunaraiyiir. This, in 
combination with references to the Sarigam in the body 
of the work, brings him later than the age of either. 
But another decad in praise of the Paramesvara 
Vinnagar at KanchI gives in great detail the achieve- 
ments of a Pallava ruler, whom Dr. Hultzsch considers 
to be identical with Paramesvaravarman II from the 
name of the shrine. This is not a necessary infer- 
ence, as any other Pallava paramount sovereign might 
have had the title Pallava Paramesvara, and the 
foundation, when contracted, might have become Para- 
mesvara Vinnagaram, e. g. Vidya Vinita Pallava Para- 
mesvaram. And notwithstanding the details given in 
the decad, it does not find support from what is known 
of Paramesvaravarman II. This Pallava sovereign, 
whatever his name, won victories over his enemies at 
Mannai, Nenmeli, and Karur. At Karur he fought 
against the.Pandya and at Nenmeli against the Villavan 
(Chera), but the enemy at Mannai is not specified. 
If these names could be identified with places where 
Udaya Chandra won victories for his master Nandi- 
varman Pallavamalla or Nandipottaraja, then the Alvar 
must have lived after Nandivarman, or, at the earliest, 
during his reign. 

Among these victories we find mention of a defeat 
of the Pandyas at Mannaikkudi and the taking of 
Kalidurga.' Mannaikkudi inay be the Alvar's Mannai, 
and Kalidurga the Alvar's 'Kunrail'. Karur as such 
does not find mention in the inscriptions. It may be 
that this name refers to an incident in which Udaya 
Chandra played no part. Then comes Nelveli, where 



1 Vide S.Ind. Ins., vol. ii, pt. iii, No. 74. Fleet, Bombay Oazetteer, 
vol. i, pt. ii, pp. 326-7. 



VAIEAMEGHA, OVERLOED 411 

Udaya Chandra won a victory ; but the Alvar speaks of 
Nenmeli, and the war was between the Pallava and 
the Chera (Villavan). It is probable that these separate 
incidents refer to different Pallava princes who wor- 
shipped Vishnu at the Paramesvara Vinnagaram shrine. 
Whatever be the real nature of these references, 
whether they refer to one Pallava Nandivarman or to 
several, such as Simha Vishnu, Paramesvaravarman and 
Nandivarman (in fact, all the Vaishnava Pallavas), it is 
clear that we have to look for the date of the Alvar 
while the Pallavas were still in power and the Cholas 
had not come into prominence. 

There is one reference, however, which should give 
us a narrow enough limit for his time. In the 
last stanza of the decad, immediately preceding that 
just considered in celebrating the shrine of Ashtabhuj- 
karam in Kancbl, he makes what, in his case, appears 
as a somewhat peculiar reference to a certain Vaira- 
meghan, ' bowed down to by the ruler of the people 
of the Tonda country whose army (or strength) 
surrounded Kanchi ' In all references made to rulers, 
he has specified people who had made special donations 
to Vishnu, whether with respect to Chidambaram, 
Triplicane or Tirunaraiyur. In this case alone is the 
reference made in a secular fashion. Besides this, 
the language indicating the connexion warrants the 
inference that the reference is made to a living 
person. In the commentary of Periya Achan Pillai, 
Vairameghan is explained by the term chakravarti 
(emperor). Thus it is clear that, at the time referred 
to, there was a Pallava ruler who was under the 
protection of an imperial personage, whose name (or 
rather title) was Vairameghan. This again warrants 
the inference of the decline of the Pallava power. 

Among the inscriptions so far brought out, we 
have not often come across the name, but to the Eash- 
trakuta Dantidurga II of the genealogical table of the 



412 ANCIENT INDIA 

family, in Fleet's Kannada Dynasties, is ascribed this 
title m the Kadaba Plates published by Mr. Eice.^ 
This was the personage who overthrew the natural 
enemies of the Pallavas, namely, the Western Chalukyas 
of Badami, and in their stead established the Eash- 
trakuta power. According to the EUora inscription 
referred to by Dr. Fleet,^ Dantidurga completed the 
acquisition of sovereignty by subjugating the ruler 
of Sandhubhiipa, the lord of Kanchi, the rulers of 
Kalinga and Kosala, the lord of the Srisaila country 
(Karnul country), the Seshas. This Dantidurga was 
deposed by his uncle Krishna I, about A. d. 755. 
The king of Kanchi (during the period including 
A.D. 754, the only known date for Dantidurga Vaira- 
megha) was Nandivarman who ruled for fifty years 
from about A. d. 710.^ He is regarded as a usurper 
and is so far the last great Pallava ruler known in 
South Indian history. It is highly probable that when 
at last the Chalukya power was overthrown, the Pallavas 
advanced in the direction of Karnul. The Eashtrakiita 
records, therefore, together with the statement of the 
Alvar, would lead us to believe that Dantidurga beat 
back the enemy and was in occupation of Kanchi. 
Nandivarman was a Vaishnava, and Tirumangai Alvar's 
praise of him is admissible as that of a brother devotee, 
but any reference by him to an enemy would be far 
from complimentary. Hence, it can only have been 
made in the manner in which it is, and under circum- 
stances when he could not get out of an unpleasant 
reminiscence such as the above. The inference, there- 
fore, seems to be warranted that the Alvar flourished 
in this period exactly, and it would certainly be in 
keeping with the most cherished tradition of the Vaish- 

1 EpigrapJiia Garnataka, Gb. 61, vol. xi, Tumkur. 

2 Bombay Qazetteer, vol. i, pt. ii, p. 389, and No. 4, vol. ix, Epigraphia 
Indica. 

3 Sen Tamils vol. i, p. 80. 



TIRUMANGAI ALVAE AND SAMBANDAB 413' 

navas that the arrangement made by the Alvar for the 
recital of the Tiruvoymoli of Nammalvar had fallen 
into desuetude in the days of Nathamuni and that 
he had to revive it at Srirangam after much ado. The 
date of Tirumangai Alvar then has to be allotted to the 
earlier half of the eighth century of the Christian era. 
We have now to dispose of another Vaishnava tra- 
dition, which has often led astray many a Saiva scholar 
of repute, and has made him lose his balance of mind. 
It is the story that Tirumangai Alvar held a successful 
disputiition with the Saiva sage Tirugiiana Sambanda. 
It does not concern us here to examine whether the 
disputation was successful to the Vaishnava or the 
Saiva. Our only business is to examine whether the 
two could have been contemporaries. A late revered 
Saiva scholar, in a letter to a friend of mine, who in- 
quired if there was anything to warrant this, promptly 
wrote back to say that it was ' as false as any Vaish- 
nava tradition '. If Sambanda paid a visit to the man 
who destroyed Badami in a. d. 642, it may have taken 
place about the end of the seventh century, and so, 
if Tirumangai Alvar was at the height of his rehgious 
devotion about the middle of the eighth century, it is 
possible they were contemporary. Besides, they were 
both natives of the same place nearly. The Saiva 
was born at Shiyali, and the Vaishnava at a vil- 
lage not far off. The dispute is said to have 
taken a curious form. It was not a religious ques- 
tion, but was only one of title to ability in com- 
posing poetry. The Alvar's disciples went about shout- 
ing ' here comes Ndluhavipperumal (he that excels 
in composing the four kinds of poetry).' The Adiyar's 
disciples objected and ushered the Alvar into their 
preceptor's presence. The Alvar was asked to compose 
a kural, and burst out with a decad in praise of ^ri 
Eama of Shiyali, beginning with Oruhural (unparal- 
leled dwarf), a sense entirely different from that which 



414 ANCIENT INDIA 

the Adiyar would have given to the word. The story 
further goes on to state that Bambanda was satisfied 
and not only acquiesced in the titles of the Alvar, but 
■even made him a present of the trident he used to 
carry. It is of no use to enter into the details of the 
story, ap, so far, it has merely led to annoyance, but 
one particular, however, cannot be passed over here ; 
and that is, that the Alvar, who generally gives him- 
self one of the titles in the concluding stanza of each 
decad, breaks out at the end of this one into a rather 
provoking and assertive enumeration of all of them. 

It would appear, therefore, after all has been said, 
that tradition combined with the results of historical 
research, so far as it bears upon the subject, would 
allot Tirumangai Alvar to the earlier half of the eighth 
century after Christ ; and thus possibly he was a 
younger contemporary of TirugSana Sambanda, and 
iperhaps an elder of Sundaramurti Nayanar. 



NOTES 

Page 18. — Kosimbi : 'Sir. Vincent A. Smith writes in regard 
to the connexion between the Guptas and Kosambi. 
' I do not ]<now of any reason for connecting the 
Guptas with Kosambi. Chandragupta I, who established 
the Gupta Era, reigned from a. d. 319-20 to about 336 
(not 326 as in the Early History of India), and his 
dominions do not extend beyond Allahabad. It was 
his grandson Chandragupta II (388 or 390) who annexed 
Surashtra.' 

Pages 49 and 131. — Chakraljottam and Euler of Dhara. Cha- 
kragottam or Chakrakottam was hitherto regarded as 
a fortress of strength in the territory of Dhara : but 
Bai Bahadur Hira Lai holds that the former is in the 
Bastar State and its connexion with Dharavarasa is 
accounted for as referring to Dharavarsha of the Naga- 
vamsi family (vide Epigraphia Indica, Vol. IX, pp. 178-9 
and Vol. X, iii, pp. 25-7). 

Page 245. — Vishnuvardhana's death is put down to the year 
A. D. 1141 on the authority of Mr. Bice, but there are 
inscriptions which imply that he lived about ten to fifteen 
years later. Pending a fuller examination of the ques- 
tion this date is given tentatively (vide Quarterly 
Journal of the Mythic Society, Vol. II, ii, p. 64). 

Pages 153, 378 and 400. — Kamban had been regarded as a 
poet of the tenth century a. d. on the strength of 
certain stories connected with his life. It is mora 
likely that he belonged to the thirteenth century for 
the following reasons among others : — (1) He refers 
to a Chola King Tyagamavinodhan (who seems to be 
Vikrama Chola). (2) His contemporaneity and hostility 
to Ottakkiittan seems provable. (3) There is one story 
which connects him with Pratapa Eudra of Warangal. 



EEEATA 

Pflge, line 

8 1.— For ' Buudlekhand ' read ' Bundalkhand '. 

9 26.— Omit ' It was probably extended ' and read with the previous 
19 29.— /?or ' His father ' read ' his son '. [sentence. 
23 19.— ^or ' Hiean Thsang ' read ' Hiuen Thsang (Yuwan Ohwang )'. 
29 4. — ffor ' Malva Dekhan ' read ' Malva-Dekhan '. 

32 23. — For ' idealized picture ' read ' an idealized picture '- 
34 18. — For ' Sambahava ' read ' Sambhava '. 

43 l.^For',' and probably under his father ' read ' and under his son ' 

44 Si.— Omit ' a . 

4G 21. — For ' fathers A. D. 1044,' read ' fathers, a. d. 1044 ' 

33.~For ' A. D. 1052 ' read ' a. l>. 1053 ' 
54 19. — -Omit ' the ' before Sophytes. 

56 17 and 24. — For ' Yuet-chi ' read ' Yueh-chi'. 

57 head-line. — For ' PolitioAl ' read ' Political '. 
CO 4. — For ' that ' read ' the ' 

C'.l 3. — For ';war.craze ' read ' war-craze ' 

95 head-line. — For '.Ilanirayan ' read ' Ilaudirayan '. 

109 IC.—For ' A. D. 1052 ' read ' a. d. 1053 ' 

114 26. — For ' Rajendra Virarajendra ' read ' Eajendra and Virara- 

122 7. — For ' Ka^avadanda ' mad ' Kesavadanda '. [jendra ' 

128 27. — i''o»" '.Virarajendradeava ' read ' VIraraJendradeva '- 

130 26. — For ' iittg\naasi7 ' read ' ^e^s^u \ 

152 16. — For ' this father ' read ' his father '. 

177 8. — E^or personalities ' reatZ ' personalties'. 

179 11. — For ' Konorinmaikondau ' read.' Konerinmaikondan ' 

182 16.^i''or ' kalanju ' read ' kalanju'. 

211 36. — Omit the words ' those ' and ' in '. 

216 32 ) 

[ For '®CT-E!®!£i'?ir.n; ' read ' Jg-sre^wriw '. 
oo..~^ ) 

223 38.— For ':respective,.emhlemson'.7-(!nd 'respective emblems on '. 
226 16 — ^o»-'A.D. 1052' read'A.D. 1053'. 
2:i4 26. — For ' Pramaras ' read ' Paramaras '- 

36. — For ' regrant ' read ' re-grant '- 
2^9 4. — For ' Yigvahim ' .read ' Vigrahin '. 

20.— jS'or 'JBelugoal ' read • Belugola '. 

26. —For Marbala Irtha ' read ' Marbala Tlrtha '. 



EKEATA 4 

Pfli;ci line 

247 3. — For ' Banevase ' read ' Baiiavase'. 

248 6. — For ' who was to become ' read ' who were to become '. 
36. — For ' Kakaiyas ' read ' Kakatiyas '. 

253 25. — For ' Ywan Chwang ' read ' Yuwan Chwang '. 

266 30. — For ' enemy's ' read ' enemy '. 

270 17. — For ' his late Highness ' read ' His late Highness '- 

374 5. — For ' Remati Revati ' read ' Remati, Revati '. 

285 '2i.~0mit • Raja ' 

i287 25. — For ' Betad, Wodeyai-'s ' read ' Betad Wodeyar's ' 

302 28. — For ' method of the collectioa ' read ' method of collection '. 

306 Si. — For ' victory to Slysore ' read ' \ictory for Mysore ' 

308 5. — For ' herefore ' read ' therefore ' 

314 15. — For ' bandalism ' read ' vandalism '. 

315 29. — For ' poetry ' read ' poetics '. 

333 l.—For ' Saka a. D. 1021 or 1093 ' read ' Saka 1021 or A. d. 1099 ' 

334 23. — For ' Muduraikkanji ' read ' JIaduraikkanji '. 

354 Note 2, line 'i.—For ' as the owner ' read ' was the owner '. 

358 Notes. — Before Tuvarai insert ' (2) ' 

364 25. — For ' Dhamilas ' read ' Damilas ' 

365 1. — For ' miselection ' read ' mislection '. 



INDEX 



(Kefebbncbs to pages) 



Aay, 61 ; contemporary of Ptole- 
my, 14 ; one of the seven pa- 
trons, 370, 393. 
Abdullah Khan, 294, 
Agnikula (the Pire-Raoe), rise of 

the, 390. 
Achanna Ndyaka, Earanam, 268. 
Achdryas, the Vaiahnava, 195 (see 

also Alvars), 
Achugi II of Gulburga, 51 ; Vice- 
roy of Vikramaditya, 136; op- 
poses Ganga Raja, 142, 240, 242, 
244. 
Achyuta Baya, 228. 
Adavallin, a measure, 182. 
Adhirdjardja, installed, 233. 
Adhirdjardja, Maudalam, 174. 
Adhirdjardjendra Olwla, accession 

of, 128. 
Adhirdjardjendra Parahesarivar- 

man, enthronement of, 184. 
Adhyayanotsavam, 209. 
Adi, kapilar not a son of, 391. 
Adigaimdns, family of, 155. 
Adinagar, battle of, 107. 
Adittadevandr , Puran, alias Eaja- 

rajendra iluvendavelan, 165. 
Aditya Gholal, Bdjakesarivarman, 
99 ; overthrows a Pallava Chief- 
tain and the Kongu country, 35. 
Aditya Chola U, Karikdla, 103, 166, 
332, 361. 

27 



Adiyama, 236, 238. 
Adiyavtdn, Chola Viceroy at Tala- 
kad, 360 ; ousted by Ganga Eaja, 
146. 
Adiyamdn Nedumdn Anji of Taga- 
diir, a patron, 62, 388, 358, 370, 
393. 
Adiydrkkunalldr, 150. 
Adiydrs or Saiva devotees, 194 ; 

date of the, 377. 
Agnimitra, release demanded of 
Maurya Sachiva, 12 (note) ; 
Viceroy at Malva, 13. 
Agustia, advent of, into the 

south, 5. 
AhandnUru collection, 338, 392 ; 

ascribed to Ugra Pandyan, 3U0. 
Ahavamalla Somesvara, see Somes- 

vara I. 
Aingufunuru, 342, 392, 394. 
Aioi, situation of, 72. 
Ajdtasatru, 6, 8. 
Ajivakas, 259. 
Akalanka, 259. 
Akbar the Great, 273. 
Akkddevi, Governess of Kisukad, 

140 (note). 
Alamelumanga, 284. 
Alduddin Khilji, invasion of, 37. 
Alavanddn, brother of Kajadhiraja, 

109, 408. 
Alavanddr, great-grandfather of 
Bamanuja, 195, 257 ; his time, 
151 ; visits Bamanuja, 196 ; 



420 



ANCIENT INDIA 



death of, 197 ; the three-folded 
fingers, 198 ; succeeded by Rama- 
nuja, 201 ; fulfilment of the 
objects of, 204, 206-7 ; called 
also Yamunaitturaivar, 220 ; not 
contemporary with Tirumangai 
Manuan, 407. 

Alexander of Epirus, 12. 

Alexander the Great, 9 ; invasion 
of, 54. 

Alupa, ruler of, submits to Vikra- 
maditya, 134. 

Aiwors (or Vaishnava Saints), the 
twelve, 194 ; installation of their 
images in temples, 210 ; refer- 
ences to God in the aspect of 
a child, 216 ; their time and rela- 
tion to Ramanuja, 220, 377 ; Dr 
Rost's dates, 376 ; distinctions 
between, and Acharyas, 397, 403, 
407. 

Alvar Tirunagari, birth-place of 
Nammalvar, 397. 

Ambhikapathi, in praise of Mani- 
mekhalai, 383. 

Ameen Khan, 306. 

Ammangadevi, daughter of Gangai- 
konda Chola, 112, 115, 232. 

Amoghavarsha, 101. 

Amudan of Arangam, Smartha 
convert to Vaishnavaism, 210, 
407 ; author of Bamdnuja- 
nUrrandddi, 212, 220. 

Amur, 32 ; siege by Nalam Killi, 
354. 

Anamkonda, 248. 

Anandhdpuri, 299. 

Anaiitarya, 320. 

Anantavarman Choda Oanga, 131, 
144. 

Ananioji of Tanjore, 296. 

Andal, worship of, 210-11. 

Anddr Nambi, 394. 

Aiidhrabhrityas, 42-3, 368 (see also 
Sdtdvdhanas) . 

Andhrapurmx, 820. 



Andhras, accession of the, to power, 

13 ; decadence of the, 15-16 ; 

counteract the advance of the 

Sakas, 16, 57 ; composition of 

the Brihatkatha under the, 17 ; 

overthrown by the Sakas, 18 ; 

their period, 31 ; social features 

of the rule of the, 34 ; of the 

Dekhan, 223. 
Anga, 8. 
Angadi, the cradle of the Mysore 

dynasty, 228. / 
Angara, subjugation of, 243. 
Anji, 32 ; celebrated in the Purand- 

nuru, 339. 
Aniialan, 122. 
Antigonus of Asia, 55. 
Antigonus Gonatas of Macedonia, 

12. 
AnUochus of Syria, 12 ; the Great, 

14. 
Aornos, fort of, 9. 
Apardjita, Ganga-Pallava, 99-100. 
Appaiya Dikshita, commentator 

on Vedanta Desika, 323. 
Appar, 190, 375-6. 
Apprameya, a Chola Viceroy, 

229. 
Araiyan Madurantakan, 148. 
Arakalgadu, gain of, 299. 
Aranyakas, 3. 
Arattamukki Ddsan, name of Tiru- 

mangaialvar, 401, 408. 
Archcaology, Indian, 314. 
Arcot, Nawabship of, 37 . 
Arctic Circle, the original home 

of the Aryans, 4. 
Argalic, 60. 
Arhats, 11. 
Arikere, 287. 
AriJtulakesarin, 102. 
Arinjaya, or Arjuna Chola, Raja- 

kesarivarman, 102. 
Ariiil Kildr, an advocate of Kan- 

ijahi, 341. 
Arjuna, minister of Harsha, 26. 



INDEX 



421 



Arjuna, (of the Mahabharata) 
attempts atself-mamolation, 385. 

Arsakes, 14, 17. 

Arulalapperunial Emberumdndr, 
Vaishuava name of Yagnamurti, 
204. 

Arumoli Deva, surname of Raja- 
raja, 105. 

ArumoU Devan Measure, 182. 

Arumoli Dcvan Munayan, 149. 

Aryans, Pre-Indian age of the, 1 ; 
cross the frontier, 2; policy, 
religion, learning and traditions, 
3 ; home in the arctic circle, 
4 ; immigration into the south, 
5, 30. 

Asandinad, Governor of, 387. 

Ashtabhujakaram, 411. 

Asiatic Quarterly Review, 830. 

Asmalea (Assaka or Asvaka), 7. 

Asoka, Viceroy at Vidlsa, 10; reign 
of, 11 ; Buddhism under, 12 ; 
successors of, 12 ; construction 
of the Sudarsana tank, 18 ; free 
hospitals due to, 22 ; edicts of 
30, 58 ; records, 31 ; boundary of, 
's territory, 41 ; versus the succes- 
sors of Seleucus, 55 ; and Mahi- 
shamandala, 77 ; first mention 
of cholas in the edicts of, 90. 

Aivattaman, ancestor of Skanda- 
sishya, 362. 

Ati Vira Rama Pdndyan, 254, 373 ; 
author of Naidadam , 375 ; revi- 
vor of the classical period of 
Tamil, 376. 

Attabhuyagaram, 822. 

Augustanage of Tamil, 336, 379, 382. 

Aurangzeb, 298. 

AvanU (Malva), 7, 42, 67. 

Avvaiyar, the poetess, sister of 
Tiruvalluvar, 338 ; lucky eater 
of the black gooseberry, 339; 
enjoyed the patronage of Adiya- 
man Anji, 340 ; later than 
Paranar, 356 ; star of the first 



magnitude in the literary firma- 
ment, 358, 391. 
Ayirattunurruvan, 160. 



Bactria, kingdom of, 14 ; indepen- 
dence of, 56. 
Badduii, Chalukya capital, 27, 43 ; 

destroyed by the Pallavas, 34 ; 

new capital of the Rashtrakotas, 

79. 
Baji Rao, expedition of, 307. 
Bakari, 72. 
Bakare, 60. 

Bdldditya, Emperor, 21. 
Balagdnive, head-quarters of Gan- 

gavadi, 118 ; a Ohalukya Raja- 

dhani, 140. 
Baldjee, name of the Tirupati 

God, 216. 
Bdlakumara, father of Kanaka and 

Vijaya, 855, 367. 
Ballare, 252. 
Ballavarasa, 388. 
Balligdve (Balagamve), erection of 

a Jinalaya at, 142. 
Bamma, General, 156, 248, 250-1. 
Bammarasa, Governor of Bana- 

vasenad, 267-8. 
Bammayya Ndyaka, slave of San- 

kamale, 387. 
Bana, author of Harsha Charita, 

23. 
Banas, masters of Nolambavadi, 

78 ; overthrown by Parantaka, 

100. 
Banavdse Viceroyalty, 47, 78-9, 

140-1, 240 ; absorbed by Belala, 

250. 
Banavdsendd , 137. 
Bandanike, 252. 
Bangalore, capture of, 298. 
BanTcdpur, capital of Vishnuvar- 

dhana, 245, 249. 
Basava, minister of Bijjala, 270. 



422 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Basavaraja, Dalavoy, 305. 

Bayalimddu, 249. 

Bednur, Viceroyalty of, 83 ; Na- 

yaka, 297. 
Bell of Justice, 346. 
Bellala, Viceroy of Gaugavldi, 141. 
Bellala I Vira, 230, 234, 237, 

388-9. 
Bellala II, Vira, successor of 

Narasimha Hoysala, 249-50 ; 

conquests of, 251 ; titles of, 252 ; 

consolidation of Mysore by, 263 ; 

rivals of, 264 ; death of, 156. 
Bellalas sometimes wrongly ap- 
plied to Hoysalas, 81. 
Beluvola, 109, 232. 
Bengal, invasion of, by "Vikrama- 

ditya, 138. 
Beta, founder of the Kakatlyas, 

248. 
Betad Ohamaraja, son of Bole 

Chamaraja, 279, 282, 286, 289; 

his rule, 277 ; siege of Kesare- 

gonte, 283. 
Betad Ghdmaraja Wodeydr, Iliri, 

276. 
Betad Wodeydr, successor of Bole 

Chamaraja, 279-80 ; successor of 

Mallarajayya, 286-7. 
Bezwada, Battle of, 50. 
Bhagavan, Brahman, 391. 
Bhagavat Gita and the revival of 

Brahmanism, 58 ; commented 

upon by Ramanuja, 204. 
Bhairava, ally of Kanaka and 

Vijaya, 367. 
Bhalcti, the doctrine of, in Mahaya- 

nism and Hinduism, 58 ; taught 

by the Alvars and Adiyars, 194. 
Bhandarlcar, Dr., on Panini, 5 ; 

on Satakarni, 368. 
Bhoja, 49, 138. 
Bharata (of the Ramayana) in 

illustration of Sati, 385. 
Bharatam of Villiputtflrar's, Prof. 

Vinson's date for the, 373. 



Bhdshyam,, Sankara, written at 
Benares, 26 (note). 

Bhattaraka, founder of the Val- 
labhi dynasty, 21. 

Bhava Nandin, the Grammarian, 
156. 

Bherundesvan Pillar, 388. 

Bhujabala, 252. 

Bhuta Pandyan's wife, a writer in 
the Purananurii, 359 ; and an 
instance of Sati, 385. 

Bijapar, kingdom of, 37. 

Bijjala, usurper of the Chalukya 
empire, 52, 247, 249-51 ; rise 
of, 264 ; persecution of the Lin- 
gayets, 266, 269 ; character, 267 ; 
at Belagamve, 268 ; administra- 
tion and end of, 270. 

Bilhana, author of VikramS/nka- 
devaCharitam, 122, 133 ; Vidya- 
pati of Vikrama, 142. 

Billama, 251. 

Bimbisara, 6, 8. 

Bindusara, 10, 55. 

Birudantembara Qanda, 277, 282. 

Bitta Deva Hoysala, conquest of 
Gangavadi, 146. 

Bil^ti Deva, see Vishnuvardhana. 

Bodhdyana, 204. 

Bolea, an officer of Vira Somesvara, 
387. 

Bokkimayya, 249. 

Bole Chdma Raja, son of Betad 
Chamaraja, 277 ; succeeds Tim- 
ma Raja, 278 ; sons of, 279. 

Bomballi, capture of, 294. 

Boppa, Gangaraja's son, 241. 

Boppanna, brother of MaSanayya, 
387. 

Bopparasa, Mahasamanta, 388. 

Brihasta, 392. 

Brahmddhirdja, 159. 

Brahmanas, commentaries on the 
Veda, 3 ; their date, 4. 

Brahmanism, given up by Asoka, 
11, revival of, under Pushya- 



INDEX 



423 



mitra, 13 ; revival of, under 

Samudragupta, 20 ; under the 

Pallavas, 23. 
Brahmans, position of the, in 

Ancient India, 71. 
Brahmasutras commented upon by 

Kamanuja, 198, 204-5. 
Brihadratha, last of the Mauryans, 

12. 
Brihatkathd of Gucadya, 2, 8 

(note), 17, 38, 327. Paisachi, 

34, 74. 
BrihaUtathimanjari, 327-8. 
British India, 31; foundation of, 38. 
Buddhan Kotiam, 406. 
Buddha, the, and Buddhism, 6 ; 

birth, 7. 
Buddhamitra, author of Vira 

Soliyam, 127, 259, 373 ; and 

Manimekhalai, 383. 
Buddhism, founded by the Buddha, 

6 ; under Asoka, 10-11 ; accepted 

by Kanishka, 15 ; under the 

Guptas, 20 ; accepted by Harsha, 

26; under the Pallavas, 35; 

supremacy of, (Mahayanist 

school), 58; under Vikrama- 

ditya, 142 ; in South India, 369 ; 

overthrow of, 862, 384. 
Buddhists, deities of the, 82; 

patronized by the Andhras, 34. 
Burtnah, conquest in, by Eajendra 

I, 130. 
Bumell, Dr., on the earliest date 

of the Tamil language, 374. 
Batuga Perumdnadi, a Ganga 

feudatory, 36, 44. 

c 

Caldwell, Bishop, on Tamil Litera- 
ture before the twelfth century, 
151 ; on Eamanuja's relation to 
the Alvars, 220, 254, 377; on 
Eamanuja's following, 406 ; his 
date. 



Garacalla, trade under, 73 ; date 
of death of, 75. 

Ceylon Chronicle, 75, 380. 

Ceylonese and the war for the 
Pandyan throne, 36. 

ChaTcragotiam, 49, (see also Sah- 
karagottam). 

Chakrapani Nambi, 162. 

Chakravarti Tondaman, 215, 333. 

Chakravarii Vaishnava, 261. 

Chdlukyan Empire, divisions of 
the, 139 ; extent of the, 146 ; 
additions to the, 51 ; disorganiza- 
tion and decline of the, 52, 
81, 152; Heujeru, a gate of, 
117. 

Chdlukya period of South Indian 
History, 31. 

Chdlukyas, the, rise of, 33 ; occu- 
pation of the Dekhan, 17, 23 ; 
occupation of Vengi, 22 ; and 
the Pallavas, 23, 34, 43 ; at war 
with the Cholas, 36, 46, 80, 111 ; 
absorption of Banavase, 78 ; at 
war with the Rashtrakutas, 44, 
79, 103 ; own part of the Dek- 
han, 97 ; defeated by Vrrara- 
jendra, 123 ; overthrow of the 
dynasty of, 27 ; of Vatapi, 224 ; 
of Kalyani, 225. 

Chdmaraja, son of Bole Chamaraja; 
279, 286 ; the nominee of Dala- 
voy Devaraja, 307. 

Chdmaraja Wodeydr, 276 ; son of 
Narasa Baja, 286 ; succeeds Baja 
Wodeyar, 287 ; rule of, 288 ; 
religion of, 304. 

Chdmaraja Dodda, 279. 

Chdmaraja Hiri, 276. 

Chamberlain, 40. 

Champa, 8. 

Chdnakya, the diplomatist, 9. 

Clmnd, 390. 

Chanda Mahasena, 8 (note). 

Chanda Pajjota of Ujjain, 8. 

Chandaiya Tuluva, 387. 



424 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Chandragupta Maurya and the 
Nandas, 9 ; treaty with Seleuoua 
Nicator, 10 ; marriage and the 
founding of the Gupta era, 19 ; 
problem of empire, 40 ; empire 
under, 55 ; at Sravana Belagola, 
77. 

Chandragupta Vihramiditya, 20-1. 

Changajvas, the, 235, 249, 251. 

Channa Basava, birth of, 270. 

Channapatna, Viceroyalty of, 83 ; 
capture of, 288. 

Ghanniah of Nagamangala, 293-4. 

Chashtana, the dynasty of, 868 
(note). 

Chattimayya Ndyaka, 268. 

Chedi, 7. 

Chengilvas, 240. 

Chengiri, 286, 238. 

Chera, 31, 33, 42 ; extent of the 
territory, 61 ; ascendancy under 
Senguttuvan, 63, 371 ; ascend- 
ancy questioned, 18. 

Cheramin Perumil, 376, 395. 

Chersonese, 65. 

CheviLr, battle of, 103. 

Chidambaram , Govindaraja temple 
at, 153, 210, 220. 

Chikkadevaraja Wodeyar, 84, 295- 
6 ; reign of, 299 ; reforms of, 
300 ; domestic arrangements of. 
303 ; religion and death of, 304 

Chintamani, one of the five ilaha- 
kavyas, date of the, 373, 375 
model for Kamban's Bdmd- 
yanain, 379 . 

Chitra, ally of Kanaka and Vijaya, 
367. 

Chokka, a Pandyan king, 299, 

Chokkalinga Ndyaka of Madura, 
invasion of Mysore by, 296. 

Chola empire, rise of the, 27, 33, 
85, 44 ; extent of the, 61 ; as- 
cendancy of the, under Karikala, 
62 ; makers of the, 98 ; admin- 
istration and consolidation of 



the, 147; the settlement of the^ 
149 ; system of administration 
and its character, 158, 175 ; 
divisions of the, 173 ; resources 
of the, 179; coins in the, 183; 
decline of the, 52, 152, 158,372. 

Chola-Kerala, Viceroy of Kongu, 
151, 401, 408. 

Cholamandalam, 174. 

Chola period, the, of South Indian 
History, 31. 

Cholas, the, at war with Eashtra- 
kutas, 36, 80 ; at war with the 
Chalukyas, 46, 48 ; conquest of 
Nolambavadi, 78 ; alliance with 
the Hoysalas, 82 ; and Ganga- 
vadi, 152, 225 ; retreat of the, 
226. 

Chronology of India, 363. 

Close, Sir Barry, resident in 
Mysore, 88. 

Coins under the Cholas, 183. 

Commerce of South India, 65 ; 
with Rome, 72. 

Conjeevaram records of Vijaya- 
laya's reign, 99. 

Coomaraswami, the Hon'ble Mr. 
P., on the date of Karikala, 349 ; 
versus Dr. Hultzsch, 863. 

Cornelius Nepos on the external 
relations of Hindustan, 59. 

D 

Dadoji, 300. 

Dahala, 51. 

Daivardshtra (or Maharashtra), 
22. 

Dakkana Latam, conquest of, 107. 

Dakshindpatha, 6, 10-11, 59. 

Dalavoys come into notice, 85 ; 
revival of the appointment of, 
286 ; powers of the, curbed by 
Kantlrava, 291 ; rise of the, 
805. 

Damodara, 236. 



INDEX 



42^ 



Dandabutti (Dandabhukti), o o n - 
quest of, 107. 

Dandakdra nya, 6. 

Dandaiidtha, Lankhdpura, of 
Ceylon, 164. 

Dandi, 327. 

Dannayakana Kote, 287. 

Dantidurga Bdshtrakatd,, 411. 

Darapwaiii, conquest of, 297. 

Darius Hystdspas, 6. 

JOavaka, 19. 

Davids, Prof. Uhys, on the Ceylon 
Chronicle, 380. 

Dekhan, the, during Asoka's time, 
16 ; occupied by the Chalukyas, 
17, 23 ; disintegration and inva- 
sion by Samudragupta, 22, 43 ; 
united under Klrtivarman, 28 ; 
invasion by Harsha, 25 ; pla- 
teau and Malva, 29, 41. 

Dekhan, Dr. Bhandarkar's, 368. 

Deki Ndyaka, 388. 

Deogari, overthrow of, 53. 

Devandhi, the nun of the Silap- 
■padhikdram, 345. 

Devaraja of the Kanohi temple, 
197. 

Devaraja Dalavoy, 86, 305-6 ; 
victories of, 307. 

Devaraja, Muppin, 279, 282, 286, 
295. 

Da7nilas, the, 364. 

Dhanakataka (or Dhara^ikot), 16, 
42, 223. 

Dhanuttara, ally of Kanaka, 367. 

Dhdra, 49, 51 ; battle of, 234. 

Dharmapdla, defeat of, 107. 

DMraratha, defeat of, 107. 

Diadochi, 55. 

Dikshit, Mr. Sankara Balakrishna, 
on the Brahmanas, 4. 

Dina Chintdmani, a queen of 
Kulottunga, 147. 

Dinndgdcharya, 325. 

Divikaram, Dr. Eost's date for 
the, 375. 



Dodda Devardja Wodeydr, 295 ; 

rule of, 296 ; administration of, 

298 ; religion, 304. 
Dodda Raja, 305. 
Doddayyachdrya, see Mahdchdrya. 
Doravddi, 252. 
Drdvida Veda, works of Nammal- 

var, 396 ; why so called, 398. 
Dravidian Civilisation, 30. 
Dravidians in contact with the 

Aryans, 2. 
Duff, Miss, author of the Chrono- 
logy of India, 363 . 
Dumme, battle of, 236-7. 
Dusserah, institution of the, 

285-6, 290. 
Dvdrdpati, 391. 
Dvdrasamudra, capital of the 

Hoysalas, 234, 245 ; overthrow 

of, 53. 
Dwaraka, 7. 
Dwdrdvati (Halebid), 275. 

JE 

Echald Devi, 234, 250. 

Edirili Chola Sambhuvardyan, 

154-5. 
Ekandth measure, 150. 
Ekoji, 299. 
EUni (Yavanika), descendants of, 

155. 
"Elisaivallabhi, a queen of Kulot- 
tunga, 147. 
Embdr, second Vaishnava name of 

Govindabhattar, 202. 
Empire building in South India, 

27 ; the passing away of, s, 40. 
Encyclopixdia Britannica on the 

Tamil language and literature, 

374. 
Epics of the Anklet, see Silappa- 

dhikdram. 
Epics, Hie, chronology of, 30. 
Epigraphia CarnaUca, 386. 
Epigraphy, Indian, 316. 



426 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Erindapalla (or Kandesh), 22. 
Eremberege (or Yelburga), 252. 
Ereyanga Moysala, 136, 141, 232, 

23i, 2i0, 243, 265. 
Erode, conquest of, 297. 
ErumaiyHrdn, 222. 
Brumdnattu Nalliyakkon, hero 

of Sirupanarruppadai, 339 ; ruler 
_ of Mavilaugai, 363, 393. 
Etagiri, a Ohalukya Eajadhani, 

140. 
Eudamos succeeds Philip to the 

Viceioyalty of the Punjab, 55. 
Eukratides, 56. 
EumeTies, 55. 
Evvi, Chieftaincy of, 32, 61, 342, 

370. 

ffa Hian, the Chinese traveller, 

20 ; on free hospitals, 22. 
Festivals, in ancient South India, 

71. 
Pish emblem, erection of the, on 

the Himalayas, 356. 
Fleet, Dr., on Somesvara II, 125 ; 

's quotation from Vikraman- 

kadeva Gharitam, 133, 232 ; 

on the authenticity of the Ceylon 

Chronicle, 380, 412. 

G- 

Gajabahu I, King of Ceylon, 63, 
74, 93, 380-2, 334, 364, 394; 
present at the consecration of 
Pattini Devi's temple, 363 ; con- 
temporai;y of Senguttuvan, 349, 
380 ; arguments re identification 
of, 381; accounts and date of, 
365-6, 382. 

Gajabihu II, date of, 381. 

Oambhira Baja Yirupanna, ambas- 
sador, 285. 

Oanapati, defeat of, by Rajadhi- 
raja. 111. 



Oandagiri, 286. 

Gandagopala, 157. 

Oandappaiyan, death of, 111. 

Oandarddittan Chola, 102. 

Qandardinakaran, defeated by 
Eajadhiraja, 111. 

Gdndhara, 7, 15, 20. 

Oangadharan, death of. 111. 

Gangaikonda Chola, 45-6, 49, 50. 

Gangaikonda Cholamandalam, 174. 

Gangai Kondapuram, ruins of, 
187. 

Gangaikonda Solapuram, i9 ; occu- 
pation of, 122 ; purification of 
the tank and construction of a 
temple at, 108, 408. 

Gangamandalam, capture of, 136. 

Gangama ndalika (Udaya d i t y a ) 
lord of Alampara, 137. 

Ganga Pallavas, overthrow of, by 
Parantaka, 80. 

Gangappddi, conquest of, 104, 110. 

Gangardja, 51, helps the Hoysalas, 
142 ; General of Bitta Deva, 146, 
241 ; and Jain temples, 261 ; 
capture of Talakad, 339. 

Gangas, the, the dynasty of, 35, 
44-5 ; in Mysore, 77 ; own part 
of the Pallava territory, 97, 225. 

Ganyavddi (or Ashtagram), 47, 51, 
78-9 ; the, Viceroyalty, 141 ; 
conquest of, by Bitta Deva, 146 : 
lost to the Oholas, 152 ; con- 
quest of, by iiajaraja, 225 ; 
divisions of, 230 ; Hoysala con- 
quest of, 235. 

Gaud of Magadi, overthrow of, 
306-7. 

Gautamdchdrya, 268-9. 

Gautama Sakya Muni, 6. 

Glianagin, 273. 

Ghatikdchalam, 320. 

GoldstUcker, Dr., on Panini, 4. 

Golkonda, kingdom of, 37. 

Gopinatha Eao, Mr. T. A., on the 
contemporaries of Alava a d a r i 



INDEX 



42^ 



151 ; on the Tirupati temple, 
215 ; on the chronology of Silap- 
padhikdram, 216 ; on the date 
of Nammilivar, 396 ; on the con- 
temporaneity of certain Alvars, 
407 ; conclusions of, not accept- 
able, 403. 
Gotamiputra Sdtakarni, 246, 368. 
Govinda IP, 97, 100. 
Govinda Bhatiar, Sattai, of Irai- 

yiir, 148. 
Govinda Bhattar, cousin and class- 
mate of Ramanuja, 195, conver- 
sion to Saivism and reclamatioo, 
202. 
Govinda Chandra, retreat of, 107. 
Govindacharlu, Mr. A., on the 

date of Alvars, etc., 402. 
Govindaraja, restoration of the 

shrine of, 210, 220, 316. 
Govinda Yogi, the Sannyasin name 

of Yadavaprakasa, 201. 
Grahavarman of Maghada, 24. 
Grama (or township), 139. 
Greece, comparison between Indian 

History and that of, 33. 
Grierson, Dr., the exponent of the 
' Christian ' Ramanuja theory, 
193. 
Gujjala Devi, 250. 
Gulur, 299. 

Guptas, the, prominent in the 
north, 17 ; dynasty of, and era, 
19 ; Brahmanism and Buddhism 
under, 20 ; religion of, 21 ; 
empire of, attacked by the 
Huns, 23 ; free hospitals under, 
22 ; conquest of the Dekhan 
by, 43 ; rise of, 56, 224. 
Gwjaras, the, 67, 97. 
Guruparamparai, the, of the 
Vaishnavas, 219-20, 257, 316, 
332, 397. 
Guitas, the, of Guttal, 141, 246. 
Guttavolalu, 252. 
Oulti, Biege of, 126, 252. 

28 



H 

Hadana, old capital of Mysore, 277 
Haidar Ali, rise of, 86, 286, 30G 
308 ; formation of Mysore under 
222. 
Baladi, 252. 
Salawe, 252. 
Halebid, capital of the Hoysalas 

82. 
Handalageri, 299, 
Hangal, siege of, 245. 
Hanuman, messenger of Rama, 

385. 
Sdnungal, 240. 
Haridle, daughter of Vishnu- 

vardhana, 240, 258. 
Harihar, origin of the temple at, 

260. 
Harpalos, 60. 
Harsha, 103. 

Harsha Charita of Bana, 123. 
Harshavardhana, Slladitya, 24, 
43 ; son of Prabhakara, 24 ; 
empire building by, 25 ; religion, 
death and succession, 26 ; of 
Kanouj, 224. 
Hassan, cession of, 297. 
Hastimalla, Ganga Bana Prithvi- 

pati, 100. 
Hayagriva, image of, presented to 

Ramanuja, 205. 
Hemddri, commentator, 325. 
Hemaji Pandit, 294. 
Bemmadi Raja, 261. 
Senjeru (or Penjeru), a gate of 

the Chalukya empire, 117-8. 
HimdsUala versus Akalanka, 259. 
Hinduism, Pauriinic, 35 ; modern 

37. 
Hindustan, one of the divisions of 
India, 23, 29 ; brought under 
the rule of Harshavardhana, 25 ; 
overthrow of, 26. 
Hira Lai Pundit, 130, 



428 



AiSICl3Biit,T iKbIA 



History of India, materials for the 
study of the, 314 ; languages 
needed therefor, 315 ; defects to 
be guarded against, 326. 

Hiuen-Thsang, Chinese traveller, 
23, 43; administration of the 
empire in the time of, 25 ; in- 
fluence of, on Harsha, 26 ; 
ceded districts under the earlier 
Cholas in the time of, 97 ; 
political divisions of India in 
the time of, 224 ; visited the 
Court of Pulikesin II, 255; 
Buddhism overthrown when, 
visited, 362. 

Siung-nu, fall on the Yueh-ohi. 

Hoernle, Dr., on the Agnikulas, 
390, 395. 

Sonnavalli, 299. 

Hoskote, siege of, 288. 

Hoysala ChaJcravartin, 252 (see 

Bella}"' II)- 

Eoysalas, the, 36-7, 51-3 ; rise, 
81 ; versus the Kalaohurya, 82 ; 
empire of, 62 ; masters of 
Gangavadi, 141 ; advance north- 
ward, 142 ; attempt at independ- 
ence, 155 ; versus the Pandyas, 
157 ; origin of, 228. 

Huligere, 240. 

Bult^sch, Dr., on Somesvara II, 
125-6 ; on the earlier inscrip- 
tions of Kulottunga, 129; on 
the identification of a Uajendra 
Ohola, 131 ; on the date of 
Nammalvar, 151, 191, 401 ; on 
the situation of Kandalur, 185 ; 
versus Caldwell, 254; on the 
identification of a Gajabahu, 
363 ; on the Karikala of Pattin- 
appalai, 381 ; on the Killi of 
Silappadhikdram, 348 ; on Para- 
mesvaravarman , 410. 

Buns, the, and the Gupta empire, 
21, 23 ; beaten back, 24. 

SunOS, the, 224, 



Idaitturainddu, conquest of, 106. 

Idavai, attacked by Varaguna, 99. 

IhJceri, capture of, 293. 

Ikkeri Basava, 300. 

Ikkeri Nailes, 84-5. 

Ikkeri Nayaka, 294. 

lla Kings, religion of the, 397, 399. 

llam (Ceylon), 66 ; subjugation 

and conquest, 106. 
llam Cheliyan, ruler of Madura, 

358. 
llam Cheliyan, successor of Ugra 

Pandyan, 355-6. 
llam Cheliyan, Viceroy of Korkai, 

334. 
llam Killi, ruler at Kanohi, 354. 
llam Kiranar, Porundhil, 343, 

357. 
Ilandiraiyan, Tondamdn, of Kan- 
chi, 94-6; 330, 383; celebrated 
by Rudiranganijanar, 352 ; origin 
forgotten, 362. 
Tlango (or Ilangovadigal), a Sangam 
poet and author of Silappadhi- 
Jtdram, 217, 330, 340, 359, 380. 
Ilanjetchenni (or Uruvappaharer 
Ilayon), father of Karikala, 92, 
349, 351. 
Immadi Krishna Raja Wodeydr, 

308. 
Immadi Raja, 287-8. 
India, of the Aryan invasions, 1 ; 
political divisions in the sixth 
century a. c, 7 ; first reliable 
date in the history of, 10 ; forma- 
tion of States, 23 ; natural divi- 
sions, 29 ; a contingent of, in 
Greece, 6. 
Indo-iryans, see Aryans. 
Indraratha, defeat of, 107. 
Innd forty, of Kapilar, 342, 392. 
Innes, Mr. L. C, on the date of 
the third Sangam, 380-2 ; on 



INDEX 



429 



the date of Manikkavasagar, 
376. 
Inscriptions, antiquity of, 383 ; 
auxiliary to history, 30 ; Akkd- 
salai, 143 ; Arkalgud, 387 ; Bala- 
giimeva, 267, 269 ; Davanigere, 
119; Dombal, li2; DrSksha- 
rama, 141 ; Kadur, 387 ; Karu- 
vur, 175 ; EUora, 412 ; Mara- 
mangalam, 143 ; Perumbudur, 
148 ; Pitfipuram, 130 ; of Raja- 
raja II, 401, 408 ; of Rajendra 
Chola, 331 ; of Samudragupta, 
77 ; Sanchi tope, 380 ; Shikarpur, 
142, 149; South Indian, 126, 
132 ; Srlrangam, 151 ; Tiruppar- 
kadal, 147 ; Tiruvanaikkaval, 
149; TiruvidamarudOr, 144; of 
Vlrarajendra, 177, 181 ; Uggi- 
halli, 230 ; Ukkal, 401. 

Iraehchayyan, 122. 

Iranddyirattunurruvan, 162. 

Irrigation under the Cholas, 187. 

Irukkapdla, a Viceroy under Vik- 
ramaditya, 136 ; defeats Somes- 
vara II, 234, 

Irungolas, 237-8. 

Irungovel of Arayam, a patron, 
62, 229, 358 ; descent of, 391-2. 

Irungovel PuUkadinidl oflered 
Pari's daughters, 342, 370. 

lyiir MulangilAr, 338. 

lyyappa Ndyaka, 296. 



Jaitugi Yddava, 252. 
Janaka, Bajarishi, called Indian 
PisistratuB, 6 ; king of the 

Videha, 7. 
Janandthan, 124. 
Janandthapura, 244. 
JanasthSna on the Godaveri, 8. 
Jatakana Durg (Devarayadurga), 

capture of and change of name 

of the, 299. 
Jayakarna, son and viceroy of 

Vikramaditya, 138 (note), 143. 
Jayakesin I, 134, 136. 
JayakSsin II, 143, 243-4. 
Jayamgonda Chola, title of Rilja- 

dhiraja. 111 ; title of Rajariija, 

105, 181. 
Jayamgonda Cholamandalavi, 174. 
Jayam Kondan, Kaviohakravarti 

of kulottonga, 144, 150, 152, 

333, 361. 
Jayasimlia Prince, brother of Vikra- 
maditya, 50 ; supports him, 114 ; 

defeated by Rajadhiraja, 111,205. 
Jayasimha III, defeated by Rajen- 
dra, 106 ; ruler of Banavasi, 135 ; 

revolt of, 138, 141. 
Jewel Belt, see Manimekhalai, 
Jina, other name of Mahavira 

Vardhamana, 6. 
Justice, administration of under 

the Cholas, 167. 
Justice, Bell of— see.BeZZ, 



JagaddSva, 235-6, 245. 

Jagadeka Malta II, 245, 247, 249, 

264-5. 
Jagadeva Bayalu, 80, 288. 
Jainism versus Vaishij avism, 260. 
Jains, the, abode of the deities of, 

32 ; patronized by the Andhras, 

84 ; in Mysore, 77 ; persecution 

of, 208, 219. 
Jaitdji, 300. 



Kadaba plate, 412. 
Kadaivallaldr, 341, 390, 393. 
Kadambas of Ona, 51 ; viceroyalty 

of the, 141, 246 ,- movement of 

the, 142. 
Kadambas of Hangal, 141. 
Kadambu, Victory of Senguttuvan 

over, 355. 
Kadambu tree. The, destniction of, 

73. 



430 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Kadaram, capture of, 107, 126, 
185 ; re-oonquest of, 131 ; battle 
of, 331. 

Kaildsandtha temple of EUora, 35. 

Kakatiya, The, 36-7, 52-3, 82 ; at- 
tempt at independence, 155 ; 
founder of the dynasty of, 248. 

Kdla, 236, 238. 

Kalachurya usurpation, 81, 156. 

Kdlaham (Burma), 66. 

Kdldmukha, a sect of the Saivas, 
269. 

Kdlapdla, 244. 

KalarkiUi, brother of Ilamkilli, 
354. 

Ealdthalaiydr, 95, 229, 342. 

Kalavur, battle of, 229. 

Kalhana, historian of Kasmir, 409. 

Kdliddsa, 12, 14; age of, 325. 

Kalidevan Porrikuli, 162. 

Kdlidurga, capture of, 410. 

Kdliga Hoysala, 229. 

Kalikdnal, 353. 

Kalinga Choda Ganga, 145. 

Kalmgain added to the empire, 11 ; 
enemy of Pushyamitra, 13 ; sub- 
jugation of, 51 ; acquired by 
Kulottunga, 62 ; conquest of, 
105, 144, 381 ; burning of, by 
Vikrama Chola, 152. 

Ralingattupparani, 50, 116, 125, 
128, 131, 136, 144-5, 152, 349, 
381, 394 ; date of, 146, 366 ; on 
Killi and Karikala, 361. 

Ealumalam, battle of, 96. 

EajavU, 349. 

Kalydna (Kalyani), Chalukya 

capital, 113, 139-40. 
Kimadeva, 248. 
Edma Hoysala, 280. 
Eamalanayana Bhatta, 195. 
EdmarUpa (Assam), 19, 25, 51 ; 

invaded by Vikramaditya, 138. 
Eamban, author of the Tamil 
Bamayana, 153, 322 ; date of, 
330, 334, 878 ; patron of, 379 ; 



contemporary with Nftthamuni, 
857, 400; not the President of 
the Council that approved 
Madurakavi's publication, 898 ; 
gets his Eamayana approved, 
399. 
Eambandtidlvdr, 396. 
Eambhoja, 7. 
Eambhoja (horses), 236. : 
Kampli (Kampili), 47 ; head-quar- 
ters of Vijayaditya, 120 ; burnt 
by Virarajendra, 125. 
Eanaikkdlirumporai Chera, 96. 
Eanaka and Senguttuvan, 830, 355 , 

367. 
Kanahasabhai Pillai, Mr., 116; 
identifies Tagadur with Dhar- 
mapuri, 367, 880. 
K narese, value of, for research 

work, 315. 
KancM, Pallava capital, 16, 19, 
22-3, 83 ; occupation of, by Vik- 
ramaditya, 122. 
Edndalur, Boads of, victory of 
Rajaraja I at, 104, 110 ; destruc- 
tion of the Chera fleet at, 185. 
EanddrddUtan Madhurdniaka, 

165. 
Eande Boo, tool of Haidar, 86. 
EanhiTcere, 299. 

Eanishka, 15; the constantine of 
Mahayanism, 57 ; history of, 
828. 
Earna of Dahala, 138. 
Earoogahally Wodeydr, 275. 
Earundkara Tondamdn, 51, 144, 

146, 152, 215, 333, 381. 
Earur, Pallava victories at, 410. 
Easis, 8. 

Eaiyapa, viceroy of Bijjala, 267-8. 
Eataka, 34. 
Eathdsaritsdgara of Somadeva, 

327-8. 
Eautilya (Chanakya), 9. 
Edvana, see Edmadeva. 
Eavera, 91,349. 



INDEX 



431 



Kaverippattinam, construction of, 
93 ; an emporium, 94 ; destruc- 
tion of, 95. 

Kavirajamdrga, 315. 

Eeladi, subjugation of the, kings, 
299. 

Kempa Deviah, 295-6. 

Eenge Hamima seeks the aid of 
the Padisha of Bijapur, 292 ; ex- 
posure of, 294. 

Keralds, The, and Parantaka, 30, 
100 ; defeat of, at Ulagai, 11, 16, 
23, 41, 45, 52, 123. 

Kern, Prof., on Nagarjuna, 58. 

Kesaregonte, siege of, 283. 

Kesava Bhatiar, father of Rama- 
nuja, 195. 

Ketamalla, 238. 

Ketarasan, 122. 

Eetasamudra, 299. 

Ketayya Dandandyaka, 236. 

Kevudan, general of Rajadhiraja, 
111. 

KhdiMidn, supersedes Ranadhoo- 
lakhan, 294. 

Kielhorn, Prof., 119 ; 's date for 
the accession of Ativira Rama 
Pandyan, 375. 

KiUr, Eudalur, 392, 394. 

Kannada Dynasties of. Dr. Fleet, 
412. 

Kannahi, wife of Pehan, 341 ; 
heroine of Silappadiledram, 
344 ; propitiation by Ilam 
Cheliyan of the manes of, 357. 

Kannaii Arurdn, 160. 

Kannegdla, battle of, 51, 142. 

Kanthia Dalavdy, 305.. 

Eaniirava Narasa II, successor of 
Chikka Deva Raja, 304-5. 

Kaniirava Narasa Raja Wodeydr, 
84, 285; begins his rule, 289; 
introduces his own coinage, 290 ; 
keeps the Dalavays in check, 
291 ; defends Mysore and Serin- 
gapatam, 298 ; invades Bijapur, 



294 ; death of, 295 ; Revenue 
under, 301 ; religion of, 304. 

Kdiivdyana, family of rulers, 18, 
15 ; their age, 14. 

Kdpdlilca, a Saiva sect, 269. 

Kapilar, a Sangam celebrity, 229 ; 
an advocate of Kannahi, 341 ; 
works of, 342, 392 ; contempo- 
raries of, 343 ; connected with 
Mantharam Seralirumporai, 357 ; 
a star of the first magnitude in 
the literary firmament, 358, 390. 

Karadikkal, a pillar of victory at, 
125. 

Edravela, the Kalinga ruler of 
Orissa, 12, 57 ; invasion of Maga- 
dha, 15. 

Edri of Tirukkovilur, 32, 313, 
358, 370. 

Earikdla, a title of Virarajendra, 
116 ; sung by Kalattalaiyar, 
342 ; of the Le}'den Grant, 394 ; 
of the Silappadiledram, 348-75, 
of Pattinappalai, 381 ; date and 
identification of the, of the 
epics, 362. 

Earikdla Chola, 42 ; Chola supre- 
macy under, 62 ; ruler of Puhar, 
63, 358; the first great Chola, 
92, 185, 188, 325, 330, 332; 
erects the tiger emblem, 356; 
relation to Kokkilli, 361. 

Earikdla Mallarajayya, 286. 

Edriydr, battle of, 62, 95. 

KilU Chola, sung by Avvaiyftr, 338 ; 
sung in the Silappadhikdrain , 
848 ; Ilandirayan traced to, 352 ; 
marriage of — with a Naga prin- 
cess, 353. 

Kirdtas, 299. 

Eirtivarman, 23. 

Eiiukad, 243. 

Eochchengan Chola, 96, 255, 399, 
410. 

Eodumbai, 67. 

Eoilolugu, 407. 



432 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Koinos, mutiny under, 54. 
KokkilU, 333 ; of the Silappadhi- 
kdram, 358 ; relation to Kari- 
kala, 361. 
Koldlapura, 237. 
Kolli, 333. 

Kolkoi (Korljai), 34, 60, 67. 
Kollam (Quilon), conquest of, 105 ; 

era, 376. 
Eolldpuram (Kolliapur), a pillar of 

victory at, 47; 112, 116. 
KoUipdkkai, 47, conquest of, 106 ; 
advance of the Chola frontier to, 
117. 
Kongalvas, 229, 240, 249, 251. 
Kongu, earliest conquest of the 

Cholas, 115, 240. 
KongudiarajdkJsal, 100. 
Kongumandalam, 44-5, 
Kongunddu, 870. 
Koneriiimaikondan, Tribhuvana- 

chakravarti, 179. 
Kopana, 241. 
Kophen, The, river, 9. 
Koppam, battle of, 46, 109, 111-2, 

118-9, 127, 226,231. 
Kopperunjinga, 157-8. 
Kosalanddu, conquest of, 107. 
Kosalas, 8, 8. 
Kosambi, 7, 18. 

Eottdru (Cape Comorin), 51, 136. 
Kovalan^ hero of SilappadMIedram, 

344. 
Eovalur, 287. 
KSvil Kilar, author of a poem in 

Purandnuru, 355. 
Kranganore, a Kerala capital, 16, 

84. 
Krimikanta Chola_ 817, 820. 
Krishna, brother of Yadu Saya, 

275. 
Krishna I, Mysore after, 85 ; Rash- 
trakuta, deposes Dantidurga, 
412. 
Krishna III, 36, 44, 80, 97, 101, 
117, 225. 



Krishna Bhatta Sri, of Aranl- 
puram, 148. 

Krishna Raja, son of Betad Chama 
Raja, 277 ; passed over, 278. 

Krishna Raja. Dodda, 85. 

Krishna Raja II, 86. 

Krishna Raja Wodeydr, Dodda, 
299, 305, 307. 

Krishna Raja Wodeydr III, res- 
toration of Mysore to, 88. 

Krishna Raya, 320, 323. 

Kshetrapas, The, 14, 16, 18, 22, 33, 
42, 224, 382. 

Kudal Sangamam, battles of, 48, 
121, 123, 127, 227, 233. 

Kudamalainddu, subjugation of, 
186. 

Kukkanur, 166. 

Kulasekhara, the elephant, 297. 

Kiilasekhardlvdr , 151, 191, 317, 
395 ; recital of the works of, 
401. 

Kulasekhara Pandya, rival of 
Parakrama Pandya, 153-4, 834. 

Kulavdnigan Sdttan, see Sittalai 
Sdttanar. 

KuloUunga Chola, 49-50, 52, 81, 
227, 233, 236-7, 239. 

KuloUunga Chola I, an eastern 
Chalukya prince, 112, 115 ; suc- 
cession of, disputed, 121, 124; 
governor of the middle country, 
128 ; colonization under, 148, 
189 ; conquest of Kalingam, 
144-5 ; queens of and military 
settlements under, 147 ; age of, 
a period of literary revival, 150 ; 
called the Sungaudavirta Chola, 
182 ; persecutor of the Vaish- 
navas, 190, 207, 218, 221 ; patron 
of Tamil literature, 191 ; time 
of, 221, 318, 331-2 ; not Karikala 
of the Himalayan fame, 361 ; 
Rajendra Chola identified with, 
378 ; alias Rajakesarivarman Ra- 
jendra Chola Yuvaraja, 129-80 ; 



litDEX 



433 



legitimate heir to the rule 
of Vengi, 131 ; versus Vlrarajen- 
dra, 132 ; defeated by Vikrama- 
ditya, 135 ; achievements of, 136 ; 
Ghola empire under, 139. 

Kulottunga II, rule of, 153, 259, 
318, 323 ; a ruler of the middle 
of the twelfth century, 363. 

Kulottunga Chola III, 154, 156-7, 
332. 

Kulottunga Cholan TJlcL, 153, 220, 
319. 

Kulottunga SolaKerala Bajan, 148, 

Kumara Bellala, 240, 250, 270. 

Kumara Oupta I, 21. 

Kumara Tdtirya, see Tdtachar. 

Kundalakesi, a Buddhistic work, 
360. 

Kundavvaiydr, 104, 115. 

Kun Pandya (or Sundara Pandya), 
a convert of Guana Sambanda, 
381, 398. 

Kuntala, King of, vanquished by 
Kulottunga, 132. 

Kuntalds, The, 227. 

Kural, the earliest of the Sangam 
works, 330, 337, 355, 360, 385, 
391 ; Dr. Rost's date for the, 
375, 380. 

Kurattdlvdr , first disciple of 
Ramanuja, 200 ; blessed with 
children, 206 ; in the Court of 
Kulottunga, 207, 209, 218; con- 
verts Amudan, 210, 407. 

Kurugaikkdvalan or Nammalvar, 
151. 

Kurugodu, 252. 

Kurunthogai, 392. 

Kurus, The, or Kauravas, 3, 7. 

Kushanas, The, ruler of Gandhara, 
20 ; establishment of a kingdom 
in the Punjab, 57 ; end of the 
rule of, 16. 

Kusindra, 8. 

Kuttuvan,3i3 ; of Purandnuru, 341. 

Kutui Shdh, 300. 



Lachehala Devi, queen of Tribhu- 
vanamalla Somesvara, 387. 

Lalcshmana, governor of Banavase, 
114, 137. 

LaJcshmana, Kuvara, general of 
Vira Bellala, 388-9. 

Lakshmi Devi, 241. 

Lattalur, a gate of the Chalukyan 
empire, 117, 118. 

Learning in Ancient India, 69, 

Leyden Grant, authors of, on 
Karikala, 349, 394. 

TAchavvis, The, of Vaisali, 8. 

LimuriJte, 65. 

Literature, Indian, 315. 

Liuke (or Velliyan Kallu), 60. 

Logan, Mr., on the Malayalam 
language, 381. 

Lokkigundi, occupied by Vira 
BeUala, 252. 

Lokkundi, occupied by Vira Bella- 
la, 251. 

m: 

Macedonian empire, partition .of 

the, 55. 
Machetas, 54. 

Mackenzie manuscripts, 228. 
MddaikkUli or Seigniorage on 

coinage, 150. 
Mddhavi, mistress of Kovalan, 344. 
Madhura (Muttra), 7. 
Madhurdntakan Mddai, coin of, 

150. 
Madhurdntaki, marriage of, with 

a Chalukyan Prince, 112. 
Madhurdpura, 244. 
Madhua&dhanan, defeat of, 111. 
Mddhyamika, 12. 
Madirai Konda Bajakesari Var- 

man, 102. 
Madura, Pandya capital, 67 ; cap- 
ture of, and erection of a pillar 

of victory at, 154. 



484 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Maduraikkdnji, 357. 

Madhura Kavi, 210, 220 ; disciple 

of Nammalvar, 396 ; teacher of 

Nathamuni, 397. 
Maduramandalam, conquest of, 

107. 
Madura NdyaJca, revolt of, 274, 294, 
Madura Stlialapurdnam, 338. 
Maduvanan, 122. 
Maeris of Patalene, 54. 
Magadha, kingdom of, and its ca- 
pital, 6, 8 ; Alexander's invasion 

of, 9 ; Karavela's invasion of, 15 ; 

occupied by the Andhras, 16 ; 

secured by Ghandragupta, 19. 
Magas of Gyrene, 12. 
Mahiban, fort of, 9. 
Mahd,bha,rata, the, period, 2. 
Mahdcharya, 320, 323. 
Mahadevi, 234. 
Mahaffy, Prof., 12. 
Mahdkdntard, 5, 29. 
Mahdkavyas, Prof. Vinson's period 

for the, 373. 
Mahamad Bin Taglak, invasion of, 

82. 
Mahamad Ghazni, India after, 156. 
Mahdmalla, see Marasmiha Var- 

man. 
Mahdnadi Delta, an acquisition of 

Asoka, 11. 
Malidndman, author of Maha- 

yamsa, 381, 395. 
Mahdrdjddhirdja, title of VirarS- 

jendra Ohola, 116 ; title of Bel- 

lala II, 252. 
Mahdvamia of Geylon, 59-60, 63, 

75, 116, 330-1, 349, 367, 380, 

382, 395. 
Mahdvira Vardhamdna, founder of 

the Jina religion, 6. 
Mahdydnism, a school of B u d- 

dhism, 26, 58. 
Mahendra Pallava, 23. 
Mahlpdla (of SangukksUana), at- 
tack on, by Kajendra, 107. 



Mahishamandala or Mysore, 77. 
Maildla Devi, daughter of Vikra- 

maditya, 143. 
Maitland, Prof., on the defective 

appreciation of the historian, 

326. 
Malapakula Edla, 229. 
MdlaviJcdgnimitra, a drama, 12. 
Malaydlam language, value of the, 

for research work, 315 ; making 

of the, 381. 
Malayamdn of Tirukkoilur, 61, 

69. 
Malik Eafur, invasion of, 37, 53, 

82, 252, 372. 
Malta, 8. 

Mallindtha, commentator, 325. 
Malliyana Ndyaka, 268. 
Malloi, the, 54. 
Mdlva, 13, 14. 
Mdmallapuram, cave temples at, 

26. 
Mdndbharana decapitated by 

Rajadhiraja, 110; and Gaja- 

bahu, 364. 
Mdndygan, father of Kannahi, 344. 
Mandalam ( = province), 139. 
Mandalapurusha, Prof. Vinson's 

date for, 373. 
Mandali, territory of Singana Deva, 

118. 
Mandiram in Tuynadu, 166. 
Mangalisa, 23. 
Mdngudi Manidan, a Sangam poet, 

69, 357, 359. 
Mdnihkavdiagar , 221 ; age of, 317, 

321, 330; date of, according to 

Dr. Eost, Mr. Innes, etc., 376, 

379, 397. 
Mdnikyadevi, 236, 238. 
Manimekhalai, oi Sittalai Sattanarj 

330, 340 ; story of the, 347 ; date 

of, 360, 380; Prof. Vinson's 

period for, 373, 382 ; a necessary 

sequel to Silappadhikdram, 383. 
Manjiga Hoysala, 229. 



INDEX 



485 



Maifnai (or Mannaikudi), Pallava 
victories and Pandya defeat at, 
410. 
Mannaikkadagam, conquest of, 

106. 
Manne, battle of, 230. 
Manneyakere, a Rajadhani (capi- 
tal), 140. 
Mdntharam Seralinintporai, 343, 

357. 
Manit, the ancient Cliola who 
passed his oar over his son, 91, 
112. 
Manuve, 2b'2. 

Manyaketa, old capital of the 
RashtrakQtas, 79, 97 ; attacked, 
103. 
Maradam (JIahratta). 07. 
Marana, father of Dekinayaka, 

388. 
Miraniyaka Dalavdy, the usurper, 

275-6. 
Marasimha, 103, 225-6. 
Mar ay an, li'i. 

Marians Dandanayaka, 234. 
Masarta, expedition against, 241, 

243. 
Mdsanayya, 387. 
Mdsittuvan , father of Kuvalan, 

344. 
Maspero, 40. 

Mastikkal (^lahasatikal), 385. 
Matanga hill, 262. 
Matsyapurdna, 367. 
MaUya, the, 7. 
Maury a dynasty, 9-12. 
Mauryan empire (or the first 

empire), rise, 55 ; fall, 57. 
Mdvanko, Cheramdn, celebrated 

by Avvaiyar, 333. 
Mdvilangai, country of Eruma- 
nattu NalliyakkOn, 32, 363. _ 
Mdyavdda Kandanam of Alavan- 

dar, 203. 
Meghaduta of Kalidftsa, 325. 
Meghavarna of Ceylon, 20. 
■29 



Menander (Milinda), ruler of Kabul, 

12, 14, 16, 57. 
Metdlu.f, Celer and the Indians, 

59. 
Mihiragula, the Hun king of 
Sagala, 21, 24. 

Military system, the Chola, 184. 

ilithila, 8. 

Uithridates I, 14, 56. 

Mommsen on Indian trade, 64. 

Monuments auxiliary to history, 
30. 

Mooka Arasu, the deaf-mute son 
of Chikka Deva, 85. 

ilo, asas, 299. 

MouHkanos, 54. 

Mudathdma Kanniydr, 349, 351, 
359. 

Mudattirumdran Pandya, 337. 

Mudigondd Chola, Bdjendra, 106. 

Mudigonda Chola Mandalam, 230. 

Mudikonda Solapuram, 158. 

Mdduraikkdnji, 334. 

Mulanjur, 149. 

MuUur, siege of, 390. 

Mummudi Chola, title of Bajaraja, 
105. 

Mummudi Chola Brahmardyan, 
162, 164. 

Mummudi Cliola NallUr, 149. 

Munja. 103. 

Mupparasan, 124. 

Musldika, 299. 

Mussalmdn incursions, 37. 

Mussalmdn-Mahratta period, 31. 

Mustaphakhan, 294. 

Muiugundan, 91. 

Muve.ndi, 122. 

Muyangi, battle of, 106. 

Muziris (Muyirikkudu), 60, 65-6. 

Mysore, 11, 35, 37 ; divisions of, 
47, 78 ; inva.sion of, by Vikrami- 
ditya, 50 ; lost to Kulottunga, 
52 ; retrospect of, 76 ; making of, 
84 ; viceroyalties of, 83 ; Chola 
conquest of, 250 ; siege of, by 



436 



ANCIElsT INDIA 



Ranadhoolakhan, 292 ; invasion 
of, by Ohokkalinga Na5'aka, 296. 
Mythic Society of Bangalore, 39. 

Naehchinirkiniyar, commentator, 

352, .382 ; Pandit Swaminatha- 

iyar called modern, 340. 
Nadaviyappaiyanavidu, a Chalu- 

kya Rajadhani, 140. 
Nadu = division, 139. 
Nagamangala, 288. 
Nagdrjuna, 58, 327. 
Ndgavaramma Hoysala, 229. 
Nahapana Kshetrapa, 42, 368 

(note). 
Naidadam of Vallabha Deva, 375. 
NaJclcavaram or Nioobars, 116. 
Niladiyar, Dr. Host's date for the, 

375. ' 
Nalam Killi, siege of Uraiyur by, 

354. 
Niliyira Prabandham, arrange- 
ment for the recital of, in 

temples, 190, 194, 211 ; Dr. 

Host's date for the composition 

of, 375. 
Naldyiravan, 160, 
Nalli, one of the seven patrons, 

393. 
Ndlukaviperumdl, 413. 
NdmanailtJeSnam, conquest of, 107 . 
Nainmdlvdr, time and surnames 

of, 151, 191, 321 ; date of, 396. 
Nambidnddr Nambi, 377. 
Nanda, overthrown by Chandra- 

gupta, 55. 
Nandas, the, 9. 
NandiJcJtalimbaleam, 23. 
Nandivarman Pallavanialla (Nan- 

dipottaraja), 410-12. 
Nangalipura, 237-8, 240. 
Nanja Rajah Dalavdy, 86, 305. 
Nanja Bajah SarvddhiJcari, 308. 
Nanja Bajiah, Kara Ghuri, 308. 



Nanja Raja Wodeydr, defeat of, 
of Coorg, 294. 

Nannan, an ancestor of Vichchikon, 
355. 

Nannul, date of (Tamil Gram- 
mar), 156, 374. 

Nappasalaiydr, Mdrokkattu, 343. 

Xdranan, defeat of. 111. 

NaraaaBaja, 283, 286. 

Narasimha Brahma, ousted by 
Ganga Raja, 146. 

Narasimha Chattirvedimangalam , 
241. 

Narasimha Deva, 301. 

Narasimha Hoysala I, 37, 82, 111^ 
249, 270, 364. 

Narasimha Hoysala II, successor 
of Vira Bellala II, 156-7. 

Narasimha Varma Pallava comes 
to power, 23 ; builds the cave 
temple at MamallSpuram, 26, 
255 ; attacks and destroys Bftda- 
mi, 43, 224, 236, 238, 244, 376 ; 
rival of Pulikesin II, 255 ; Pal- 
lava ascendancy under, 371. 

Narasimha, Vijaya, birth of, 241. 

Narasinga, 242. 

Ndrdyanabhattar, Sarvakratu 
Vajapeyayajlyar, 148. 

Ndrdyana-Krama Vittar, Kattugai, 
148. 

Ndrdyana Baja Simha, 159. 

Narayanaswami Aiyar, Mr., on the 
Tirupati temple, 215. 

Ndrehehonai, a Cho)a princess 
who married a Ohera Prince, 93. 

Narkirar, a Sangam poet, 357, 
359. 

Ndthamuni, 195 ; revives Tiruvoy- 
moli recital, 377 ; a contempo- 
rary of Kamban, 379 ; learning of 
the TiruvoymoU, 397 ; approves 
of Kamba Bamdyanam, 399 ; 
date of, 400, 408-9. 
NattattanSr, Nallur, 339, 359, 393. 
Navy, the Chola, 185. 



INDEX 



43'/ 



Nayakirti, 241. 

Nedmndran, 398. 

Medumseliyan Pandya, 330, 334, 
355 ; successor of Ilam Choliyan, 
357 ; victor at Talaiyalanganam, 
358. 

Xediimseralddhan, 92 ; erects the 
fish-emblem, 35G. 

Xedumu-dikiUi, successor of Kari- 
k&la, 95. 

Xedimal Vadai, 334, 357. 

Xedungulam, 67. 

Menmeli, Pallava victory at, 410. 

Xerivayil, battle of, 95, 352, 355, 
357. 

Xetiar, battle of, 154. 

XigariU or Rajendra Chola, 106. 

Xikharili Cholamandalam, 175, 
231. 

XilaJte sitter iittu, a refutation of 
Kundalakesi, 360. 

Xilaparvata, 237. 

Ninra Sir Nedumdran or Kan 
Pandya, 381. 

XUimarga Ganga, 387. 

Kitrias, 72. 

Xolambavddi, 47, 51; or Nandi- 
droog, 78, 81 ; lorded by Vikra- 
manolamba, 137 ; viceroyalty of, 
141 ; Ganga conquest of, 226 ; 
Hoysala invasions of, 235 ; ab- 
sorption of, by Bellala, 250. 

Xolambavddi Oonda or Vishnu- 
vardhana HoySala, 241. 

Nripakdma, 229-30. 

Nripatunga, 315. 

Xulambappddi (or Nolambavadi), 
104. 

Nyoacinda (Nlrkunram), 60. 

o 

Oddavishaya, conquest of, 107. 
Olaindyaham or Chief Secretary, 

175, 177. 
Omaluru, conquest of, 297. 



Omphes of Taxila, 9. 

Ori of KoUimalai, 32, 62 ; one of 

the seven patrons, 393. 
Oiissa, one of the acquisitions of 

Asoka, 11. 
Orukural, 413. 
Ottahhattan, Court poet of KuIOt- 

tunga II, 153, 318, 334. 
Oxyartes, viceroy of Paropani- 

sadae, 54. 
Oxydrachoi, the, 54. 
Oxykanos, the, 54. 



Fadigam, 340. 

Padirruppattu, 340, 342, 351, 392. 

Paitan, capital of the Andhras, 
16, 42, 223. 

I'aldsige, 243. 

Pdlayagars, 32, 61. 

Pdli, value of the study of the, 
language, 816. 

Pallavaiyan, Perundaram Irdyi- 
ravan, 164, 177. 

Pallavaraiyan, 154, 178. 

Pallaras, the, 16, 23, 26, 31, 34 ; 
rise of, 32 ; ascendancy of, begin- 
ning under Vishuugopa, 35, 371 ; 
at war with the Paudyas, 35 ; 
at war with the Chalukyas, 43 ; 
own Nolambavadi, 78 ; break 
up of the empire of, 27, 79 ; 
routed by Krishna III, 80 ; and 
Toncjaman Ilandirayan, 96. 

Pampdsaras, 5. 

Panchalas, the, 3, 7. 

Panchavdra Vdriyam, 172. 

Pandyas, the, 11, 10, 18, 32, 41, 
52 ; versus Pallavas, 35 ; versus 
Gangas, 44 ; extent of the king- 
dom of, 61 ; ascendancy, 63 ; 
overthrow, 75, 80; religion of, 
307, 399. 

Pdi},ini, date of, 5. 

Panjappalli, conquest of, 107. 

Pappdlam, a port of Bamafina, lip 



438 



ANCIBJIT INDIA 



Pardhramahdhu, the Great, of 
Ceylon, 153 ; and Gajabahu, 364. 
Pardkrama Pandya, 153-4. 
Parama Bhalidraka, title of Bel- 

lala 11, 262. 
Paramdras, the, 103, 234, 890. 
Paramesvara, title of Bellala II, 

252. 
Paramesvaravarman Pallava, 255, 

399, 410-11. 
Paranar, 95 ; on the conquest of 
Tirukkoilur, 849; and Adiyaman 
Anji, 340 ; an advocate for 
Kannahi, 341 ; time of — relative 
to Avvaiyar, 356 ; a star of the 
first magnitude, 858 ; an asso- 
ciate of Kapilar, 394. 

Pardntaka Chola I, 36, 44 ; vic- 
tories of, 80 ; date of, a guide 
to that of Vijayalaya, 99 ; Para- 
kesarivarman , etc., 100, 147 ; 
rural administration under, 166, 
168,178, 175,861, 894. 

Pardntaka Cliola 11, Sundara 
Ghola, 102. 

Pardsara, Ramanuja asked to per- 
petuate the name of, 198 ; name 
of, perpetuated, 206. 

Parasurima, 106. 

Pari of Parambanadu, 62 ; patron 
of Kapilar, 841, 366 ; one of the 
last seven patrons, 358, 370, 381, 
390, 393. 

Paropanisadae, 54. 

Parthians, the, 14-7, 51. 

Pdsa, capture of, 154. 

Pdsupata, a sect of Saivas, 269. 

Pdtaliputra, 8, 15. 

Patanjali, age of, the Gramma- 
rian, 13. 

Patna, 8. 

Patri, 34. 

Patrons of Literature, the last 
seven — . See Kadaivajlaldr. 

Pattinappdlai, 94, 326, 332, 349, 
850, 881. 



Pattini Devi, consecration of a 
temple to, 63, 71, 347, 363, 865. 
Patti P erumdla, 237. 
Pattuppdttu, 330, 392. 
Pavanandi, Prof. Vinson's date for, 

378. 
Pehan of Nallur, one of the pa- 
trons, 32, 61, 341, 358, 370, 393. 
Peithon, Viceroy of Sindh, 54-5. 
Perdiccas, 55. 
Peridlpdr, 254. 

Feriapatna, capture of, 151, 295. 
Pericles and empire-building, 40. 
Periplus, 65, 72. 
Periya Achdn Pillai, 411. 
Periyanambi, a disciple of Alavan- 
dar and emissary to BamAnuja, 
197 ; chosen preceptor of Kama- 
nuja, 199 ; separation from the 
disciple, 200 ; in the court of 
Kulottunga, 207 ; death, 209, 218. 
! eriya Tirumoli, 406. 
Periyatiruvandddi, 898. 
Permmadi, Governor of Tardavadi, 

264. 
Ferrdnddittan, 159. 
Perumdnadi Butuga, 44, 98, 101, 

225, 232, 801. 
Perumdnadi Oanga, 110, 119. 
Perumbdndrruppadai, 95, 333, 

406. 
Perumkunfur Kildr, an advocat 

of Kanijahi's cause, 341 . 
Perumseral, 358. 

Perumieralddhan, Oh era enemy of 
Karikala, 93, 351 ; sung by Kala- 
thalaiySr, 342. 
Perunarkilli, Verpaharadakkai — 
grandfather of Karikala, 92, 
334. 
PerunclioYYuchcholan, 91. 
Perundevandr , commentator o 

VirasoUyam, 127. 
I'erungadai, see Vdayanankadai. 
Petronius, on the Roman dress, 64, 
Peutingerian Tables, 72-3. 



INDEX 



439 



Pey Alvdr on the aspect of the 

Tirupati deity, 216. 
Philip, viceroy o£ the Punjab, 9, 

54. 
Pichainiuttu, Mr., on the date of 

Nammalvar, 396. 
PidartUalaiyan, uncle of Karikala, 

93. 
Pilldn, see Tirukkurahaippird h . 
Pillaydiida, 241. 
Pinbalagya Jiyar, author of Qaru. 

parampdrai, 407. 
Pinna Timma, 323. 
Pisistratus, Indian, 516. 
Plataea, Indian contingent at, 6. 
Pliny on the trade of India with 

Borne, 04, 72. 
Pohuttelini. patron of Avvai, 338. 
Ponparri iPonpefti), 127, 259. 
Ports of India, 60-1. 
Porunardrruppadai, 349, 351. 
jPorMS and Alexander, 'J ; assassina- 
tion of, 10, 54. 
Poaan, Mummudi Chola, 162. 
Potali, Potana, 7. 
Pottarayan, 122. 
Prabhdkara Vardhana, 24. 
Prabandham, 23 (see Xdldyira- 

prabaiidham). 
Pradhan, an office, 85, 86. 
Prairit dialects, 34. 
Prapanndmritam, 320, 323. 
Pratdpa Chakravartin, title of 

Bellala 11, 252. 
Prdtapa Rudra Deva I, 251. 
Pratapa Budra, II. 
Prdtishtdna (Paitan), 34. 
Prithvipati I Oanga, fall of, 

99. 
Prithvi Vallabha, Sri, title of 

Bellala II, 252. 
Prola, founder of Warangal, 248, 

261, 266. 
Pseudostomos (alimukham), 60. 
Plolemey II of Egypt, 12. 
Ptolemey Philadelphus, 65. 



Public works under the Cholas, 

185. 
PugaUndi, 153, 334. 
Pulidr (Kaverippiimbattinam), 34, 

(il-3, 66-7, 70, 333, 344, 352 

362. 
PulikaiJimdl, 229. 
L'ulikesin II, 23, 25-7, 43, 224, 

246, 255. 
Pulimdyi (PulOmavit), 42, 368 

(note). 
Pundita Chola, 131. 
Punisa, 236. 

Puragery or Port of Mysore, 277. 
Purandnuru, 338-9, 342, 359, 3«5, 

392. 
Purdnas, chronology of the, 300 ; 

Matsya, Vishnu £ Ydyu, 31. 
Purniah, Regent of Mysore, 88. 
Pushpaka, a female elephant, 122. 
Pushyainitra, SenSpathi, 12, 13, 

14. 
Pushyamitra Sunga, the IMauryau 
general who overthrew the 
empire, 57. 
Pythagoras in India, 4. 

R 

liaghavaiengar, Brahma Sri, on 

the shrine at lower Tirapati, 22U, 

403. 
Bdhulabhadra, 58. 
Bdjabdhu, 364. 
Bajadhdnis ( = alternative capitals), 

140. 
Bajddhiraja Jayamgonda Chola, 

son of Bajeudra Gangaikonda 

Chola, 46, 109-10, 114, 174, 181, 

239, 408. 
Bajddhiraja, successor of Eajaraja 

II, 153. 
Bajddhirdja, son of BOle Chama- 

raja, 279. 
Bajddhirdjan Bdjardja, title of 

VIrarajeudra, 125, 



440 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Bdjaditya Chola Rajakesarivar- 
man, 36, 44, 80, 101, 225. 

Majagriha, capital of Magadha, 6 ; 
fortified, 8. 

Rajah, headman of the Vijjian 
clan, 7. 

RajaJeesari, a measure, 150, 182. 

RajahSsari Nallur Kilavan, 162. 

Rdjakesari Ndtakam, 189, 191. 

Rdjakesarivarman Rdjardia, 377. 

Rdjakesarivartnan Rdjendra Cho- 
la, 129, 182. 

Rdjamahendry, capital of the 
Ghalukyas, 97. 

Rajamdhendra Chola, successor of 
Rajendra II, 112, 117 ; a street 
called after him, 407, 409. 

Rdjamalla Perumdnadi, 230. 

Rdjamayya Dandandyaha, 124. 

Rdjaraja Abhaya Kulasekhara 
and Saiva revival, 377. 

Rdjardja Brahmddhirdjan, 178. 

Raja raja Chdlukya, 43, 121, 124, 
180, 232. 

Rdjardja Choda Qanga, 145. 

Rdjardja the Great, 36, 45, 46 ; 
occupation of Mysore, 81 ; a 
maker of the Chola empire, 94, 
98, 103 ; conquests of, 104, 115, 
117, 144, title of, 105 ; admin- 
istrations, 147, 164, 175,;i77, 183, 
190, 331-2, 384, 394. 

Rdiaraja 11, successor of Kulot- 
tunga II, 153-4, 318, 323, 332. 

Rdjardja III, Rajakeaarivarman, 
156. 

Rdjardja, ruler of Kalinga, 131 ; 
ruler of Trikalinga, 144. 

Bdjarajadeva, Sri, 161. 

Rdjai djamandalam, 174, 

Rdiardjainuvenda Veldn, 128, 165. 

Bdjardjan Achohudan, Chief Sec- 
retary, 178. 

Bdjardjan Araiyan, 178. 

Rdjardjan Uli, 319, 

Bdjardjan Villavan, 178. 



Rdjardja Pandinddu, 149. 

Rdjardja Paranripard ksTiasan, 
128, 165. 

Rdjaratndkari, 364. 

Rdjasekharavildsa, 46, 108. 

Rdjasimha Pandya, o.erthrow of, 
100. 

Rdjasraya, title of Bajaraja, 106. 

Rdjasuya, a, sacrifice, 18. 

Rdjdvali, 864, 366. 

Rdja Wodeydr, 83-4, 85, 276, 277 ; 
parentage, 279; rule, 283, 280; 
invited by the Viceroy of Sriran- 
gapatna, 284 ; grant of Sriran- 
gapatna, 284 ; cursed by Tiru- 
malaraya's wife, 285 ; administra 
tion, 286 ; adoption of Kantlrava- 
narasaraja, 239 ; and the Dala- 
vays, 291 ; revenue, 801 ; religion, 
304. 

Rdjendra father-in-law of Kulot- 
tuuga I, 332, 361. 

Rdjendra Chdlukya, marriage of, 
v?ith Madhurantaki, 112, 115. 

Rdjendra Chola, father-in-law of 
the Kalinga ruler. Rajaraja, 131. 

Rdjendra Chola and the publica- 
tion of Kamba Ramdyanam, 878. 

Rdjendra Chola I, occupation of a 
part of Mysore, 81 ; distinction 
of Kulottmiga under, 130-1 ; con- 
quest of Kalingam, 144 ; subju- 
gation of the Mysore Chiefs, 146 ; 
capture of Kacjftram, 185. 

Rdjendra Clwla II, the Gangai- 
kon4a Chola, 45-7; accession 
of, 105 ; conquests of, 106, 116 ; 
chief achievements of, 112 ; in- 
vestitures under, 114 ; alliance 
with the Ghalukyas, 115 ; ad- 
vance upon the Mysore country, 
117 ; successors of, 118 ; inscrip- 
tions of, 127 ; identified with 
the father-in-law of Kalinga 
Rajaraja, 146 ; death of, 231, 
408. 



INI»EX 



441 



Bdjendra Ghola Deva III, 158. 

Bdjendra Chola Prithvi Kongdlva, 
victor at Manne over Nripakama, 
230. 

Udjendra SoUsvara, 148. 

Rdjya Sri, daughter of Prabhakara, 
■li. 

Rdjyasundari, Queen of Kalinga, 
131. 

Edjyavardhana, son of Prabhakara, 
■24. 

Bdma, 385. 

Bdviadeva, 37. 

Bamanathaixjer, Mr. K. B., ser- 
vice of, to the Tamil Public, 
878. 

Bdmdyiuja, the Vaishnava re- 
former ; misapprehensions re- 
garding, 193 ; parentage and 
early life, 195 ; differences with 
the preceptor, 196 ; plotted 
against, 197; at the funeral of 
AlavandSr, 198 : initiated by 
Periyanambi, 199 ; enters the 
Sanyasiasrama, 200 ; succeeds 
Alavandar, 201 ; studies Tiru- 
voymoU, 202 ; conversion of 
Yagfiamurti, 203 ; studies in 
Ramayana, '204 ; fulfilment of 
the first object of Alavandar, 
205 ; the second object, 206 : 
and the third, 207 ; persecution 
by Kulottonga and conversion of 
Bittideva, ICO, 218, 257, 882; 
oil-mill incident, 258 ; erection 
of the temple at Melkote, 208, 
219 ; return from exile, 153, 
209 ; restoration of the Govin- 
daraja Temple, 210, 316 ; prepa- 
rations to depart, 211 ; accounts 
of -and criticism thereon, 212, 
13 ; age of, 150, 221 ; relation 
to vaishnavaism, 254 ; relation to 
the Alvars, 377 ; Pallava Vaish- 
navas of, 409. 

Bdrndnvja Dariana, 202. 



Bamanuja Xurrandddi, 210, 212, 

220, 377, 407. 
EamrtppaGaMnrfa,overthrow of ,300. 

Bamaraja, ruler of the Kannuda 
country, 273 ; fall, 274, 27S ; 
succeeds Krishnaraja, 320, 323. 

Bdmdyanam, 3 ; on MahakSntara, 
5 ; on the Aryan expansion, 8. 

Bdmdyanam, Eamba, 322, 330; 
Prof. Viuson's date for the, 373, 
378 ; approval to the — (how got), 
399 ; date of the, 400. 

Bamayya, Governor of Bauavase, 
388. 

Bdviesvaram, capture and plunder 
of, 154. 

Banadhoolakhan, general of the 
Bijapur Padisha, 293 ; lays siege 
to Seringapatam, 292 ; super- 
seded by Khan Khan, 294 ; con- 
quered by Chikka Devaraja, 299. 

Banasura, defeat of, 107. 

Bangasamudra, 287. 

Bdshtrakutds, the, usurp the Chii- 
lukyan empire, 27, 34 ; check the 
Pandya activity, 35 ; at war with 
the Cholas, 36, 80 ; at war with 
the Chalukyas, 79, 103 ; over- 
throw of, 44, 80 ; own a portion 
of the Dekhan , 97 ; under Go- 
viuda IV and Krishna III, 98 ; 
of Mauyakheta, 225. 

Bdshtram = Province, 139. 

BaHappddi, invasion of, 105-6 ; 
conquest of, 123 ; 225. 

Battas of Saundatti ; 141, 246. 

Bavideva, minister of Bammarasa, 
268. 

Bayaleotia plates, 362. 

Bed-chera, Ghera ascendancy under, 
63 , destruction of the Kadambu- 
tree, 73 ; age of, 74. 

Remati-Bevati, Venkata Regent of 
Tirumal Raya, 274 ; defeat of, 278. 

Revenue, collection of, under the 
Cholas, 176, 



442 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Rhodes, Mr. Cecil, 40. 

Rice, Mr. L., on Rajadhiraja, and 

his brother Rajeudra, 109; on 

the sons of Ahavamalla, 114 ; 

aSO, 239 ; on Jaina images, 269 ; 

author of the volumes of inscrip- 
tions in Mysore, 272. 
Richards, Mr. F. J., on the Avvai- 

malai, 338. 
Rishabadata, .368 (note). 
Romans, the, 14. 
Eost, Dr. Reinold, 374. 
Roxana, 54. 
Royal Asiatic Society, Journal of 

the, 390. 
Rudirdngannandr, a Sangam poet, 

95, 330, 333, 351, 359. 
Eudra, ally of Kanaka and Vijaya, 

.367. 
Rudraddman, greatest of the Saka 

rules, 18. 
Rupabhatiayya Dandandyaka, 143. 
RUpahrit alias Samudragupta, 

19. 

S 

SdadatuUah Nawab, 306. 

Saohiva, Maurya, 12. 

Sadagopaddsar, surname of Nam- 
malvar, 151 ; perpetuation of the 
name of, ordered by Alavandar, 
198. 

Sadagoparandddi, composition of, 
322, 399, 400. 

Sadayappa Mudaliar, the patron 
of Kamban, 379, 398. 

Saddharma-pundarika, founder of 
the Madhyamika School, 58. 

Sagala, the ancient capital of Jla- 
dra-desa, 24. 

Sahasrandmain, commented upon 
by Parasara Bhatta, 206. 

Sahya (Western Ghats), subjuga- 
tion of, 136. 

Saiiundgas, 6, 8, 9. 



Saiva BeUgion, Dr. Rest's date for 

the revival of the, 376. 
Salea era, not superseded by the 

Chalukya Vikrama era, 148. 
Sakalabhuvandiraya, title of Vira- 

rajendra Ohola, 116. 
SakJespura, gain of, 299. 
Sakas, the, of Sakastan, 14, 17 ; on 

the right bank of the Indus, 16 ; 

of the Punjab, 15 ; overthrow 

the Andhras, 18 ; overthrovfn bj' 

Chandragupta, 19 ; of the Gan- 

dhara, 21 ; driven out by the 

Yueh-chi, 56-8. 
Sdketd, 8, 12. 
Sakkrakottam, Capture of, 107, 

124, 130, 131; Kulottunga's 

victory at, 132 ; cession of, 

297. 
Sala, 228. 

Sdlai, occupation of, 136. 
Saligram, 207. 

SallSkhana, of the Jains, 386. 
Samanjasapriyan Br ah magund- 

k ar a Vidhydsthdna Mangald- 

ditya, 160. 
Samantakutam, 353. 
Sdmantas, the, defeat of, 121. 
Samasta Bhuvandsraya, alias Yira 

Bellala, 252. 
Samatata (the Delta), 19. 
Saniballi, capture of, 294. 
Sambandar, author of the Tevd- 

ram, 190, 375 ; visits Sirutton- 

dan, 376. 
Saynbhava, 34. 
Sambhu, 300. 
Sambus, kingdom of, 54. 
Samudragupta, the Napolean of 

India, 19, 23 ; invades the Dek- 

han, 22-3 ; dominions under, 41, 

234 ; contemporary of Vishnu- 

gopa, 362, 371. 
Sandhubhupa, subjugation of the 

ruler of, 412. 
Sdndimattiva, conquest; of, 106. 



INDEX 



443 



Sangam, the Tamil, institution 
of, 70 ; date o£ the third, 328, 
330 ; existence of, discussed, 
337 ; poets, 359 ; age of, out of 
existence, 381. 
Saniama, 251. 
Sanhamale, 389. 
Sankardcharya, Sri, age, 26. 
Sdnkhya Systems, learned by Py- 

thgoras. i. 
Santald Devi, 239-41. 
Santdgdra, 6. 

Sanskrit, revival of, 14, 20 ; classic 
period of, 37 ; usefulness of re- 
search worli in, 315. 
Sarvddhikdri, office of, 85-6. 
Sasakdpura, 228. 
Sasdnka of Bengal and Rajyavar- 

dhana, 24. 
Sassanian Persians, 17. 
Sdtakarni Gutaviijiutra, i'2, 367- 

8. 
Sdtavdhanas, the, 223-4. 
Sdtavdhana versus Kshetrapas. 
Sdtavahanas, tlie, 31, 3.3-4 ; con- 
nexions -svith Jlysore, 77 ; temple 
of, 74 ; of the Dekhan, 75. 
Sai-i in South India, 71 ; origin 

and instances of, 385. 
Satiyajmtra, 11, 41. 
Satyatnangala, capture of, 294. 
Satydsraya Chdlukya defeated by 

Eajaraja, 105. 
Satydiraya Deva, 388. 
Satyavdkya Oanga, 387. 
Savandroog, capture of, 307. 
Seindia Mahaddji, 40. 
Sebkildr, author of Periyapura- 

nam, 151, 153, 218. 
Seleucidan, empire of the, attack 

ed, 56. 
Seleueus Nikator, treaty of, with 
Chandragupta, 10, 55 ; descend- 
ants of, 14, 
Selvakkadungovdliyddan Chera- 
mdn, 392. 

30 



Senai = a cultivator, 163. 
Sendpathi Bhattdraka, see Bhatta- 

raka. 
Sendpathi Pushyamitra, see Push- 

yamiira. 
Sendamangalam, 157. 
Sendan, Prof. Vinson's date for, 
_ 373. 
Sengalam, Senguttuvan's victory 

at, 357. 
Senguttuvan Sera, 42 ; Chera 
ascendancy under, 63-4, 95 ; and 
the Gangas, 77 ; achievements 
of, 108, 330, 332, 334; grand- 
son of Karikala, 349 ; age of, the 
period of Sangam activity, 337 ; 
and Paranar, 839; victories of, 
354-5 ; Chera ruler of the Silap- 
padhikdram, 358 ; consecration 
of Pattini Devi's temple by, 363 ; 
Gajabahu I, the contemporary 
of, 366 ; and the Satakarnas, 367 ; 
divisions and chieftaincies in the 
_ time of, 369. 

Senni or Kulottunga I, 147. 
Sen Tamil, 397. 
Seshagiri Sastriar, Prof., 254. 
Seuna Chandra II, 136. 
Seuna Deia vioeroyalty, 140, 246. 
Shad Tarka Shanmukha, 239. 
Shaji, 299. 

Sibi, a mythical king, 91, 348. 
Siddoji Ohorepara, 306. 
Sildidtya of Kanouj, 224. 
Sildharas, the, of the northern and 
southern lConkan,140, 142 ; move- 
ments of, 142 ; of Kolhapur, 141. 
Silappadhikdram, Epic of the Ank- 
let, 42, 94, 150, 255, 325, 330, 
332, 834, 340, 394 ; a light house, 
185 ; on the Tirupati Temple, 
215; and Ugravarma Pandyan, 
338 ; on the parentage of Sen- 
guttuvan, 340 ; plot of the, 343 ; 
date of the, 360, 380 ; Prof. Vin- 
son's period for the, 318 ; not 



444 



ANCIENT INDIA 



commented upon Nachchinar- 
kiniyar, 382 ; incomplete with- 
out Manimekhalai, 383. 
Simha Vishifu, 255, 411. 
Sindagere, 234. 

Sindas, the, of Yellurga, 141, 146. 
Smdhu, battle of the, 13. 

SmduvajU, conquest of, by Tim- 
maraja, 278. 

Singa, ally of Kanaka, 367. 

Singalika trampled, 243. 

Singana Deva, Mahamandalesvara 
of Lattalflr, 117. 

Singanam, capture of, 121-2, 
136. 

Sira, capture of, 293. 

Siriya Devi, wife of Bopparasa, 
388. 

Siriya 7 elan, 102. 

Sirupandffuppadai, 839, 341, 555, 
^ 359, 863, 393. 

Siruttondar visited by Sambanda, 
376. 

Sitabaldi, head-quarters of a vice- 
royalty of Vikramaditya, 247. 

SWhalaichdttandr , author of Mani- 
mekhalai, 330, 341, 359, 380; 
and the composition of Silappa- 
dhikdram, 383. 

Siva, temples dedicated to, 23 ; 
worship of, 32. 

SivoBhUldma'ij.iehaturvedi manga- 
lam, 160, 162. 

Sivaji, 298. 

Sivamdra, 241 ; II, 256 ; versus 
Varaguna Pandyan, 362. 

Sivappa Ndyaka of Ikkeri, 296- 
7. 

Sivaprahd^swami in praise of 
Manimikhalai, 383. 

Shandagupta, 21. 

Skandaiishya Pallava, 862. 

Skylax, admiral of Darius Hys- 
taspes, 6. 

Smith Vincent, 13. 

Sola-Keralamandajam, 174. 



Solamandalam, 149. 

Solapuram, endowment of a tem- 
ple at, 147. 

Soli country, 91. 

Soli Batta, 365. 

Soliyavenddhi Tirukkannan, 343. 

Somadeva, 327-8. 

Somayajiar Kunrahuli, 148. 

Somesvara I, Ahavamalla, 46-8 ; 
ascends the throne of the 
Karnatic, 81 ; victor over Raja- 
dhiraja, 110 ; feudatories of, 111 ; 
the one object of, 113 ; versus 
Virarajendra, 119, 121 ; death of, 
113, 226, 230-1, 233, 256, 270 ; an 
example of Sati, 386. 

Somesvara, II, Bhuvanaikamalla, 
47-50; viceroy at Banavase, 
113, 115 ; governor in the 
Bellary district, 120, 123, 125 ; 
accession of, 126 ; overthrow of, 
133, 135 ; cession by, of countries 
to Lakshmana, 137, 226, 233 ; de- 
feated by Irukkapala, 234. 

Somesvara III, BhUlokamalla, suc- 
cessor of Jayakarna, 143, 239, 
240 ; suzerain of Vishnuvardh- 
ana, 242, 245, 249, 264, 267. 

Somesvara IV, the last Chalukya, 
248, 250-2. 

Somesvara Hoysala, 82. 

Somesvara Tribhuvanamalla, 387. 

Sophytes, 54. 

Soratar, 251-2. 

Soievur, 234. 

South India, History of, 29 ; period 
in the history of, 31 ; history of, 
capable of further working into, 
38. 

South Indian Association, 326. 

Speyer, Prof., on the date of Brihat 
Kathd, 74. 

Sravana Belgola, 77 ; records, 386. 

Srdvasti, 8. 

Sri B?iashj/a,Ramanuia's comment- 
ary on the Brahmasutra, 206. 



iNbfix 



445 



Sridhara Nay oka, karanam, 268. 
Srikrishnardma, 164. 

Srimedhinivallahha alias Virara- 
jendra, 116. 

Sri Purusha Muttarasa, father of 
Sivamara, 256. 

Srinivasaraghavaiengar , Dewan 
Bahadur Mr., on the resurvey of 
the Ohola country, 148 ; on the 
Chola Revenue system and 
standards of measure, 176, 182 ; 
on the standard of life in India, 
190. 

SriP»(ia = aroyal fort, 144, 176. 

Sri Pdla, the great Jain teacher, 
239. 

Sri Pdla Trividya Deva, 260. 

Sri Parambi, see Tirupparam- 
biyam. 

Srirangandyaki, 284. 

Srirangapatna, viceroyalty of, 83 ; 
acquisition of, 283 ; siege of, by 
Ranadhoolakhan, 292; siege of, 
by Sivappanayaka, 296 ; siege of, 
in the reign of Doddakrishna- 
raja Wo4eyar, 306. 

Sriranga Rayal, the fugitive ruler 
of Vijayanagar, 273, 296 ; death 
of, 274. 

Srivallabkamadanarajan of Cey- 
lon, 111. 

States, formation of, 23. 

Sthalapurdnas, Prof. Vinson's date 
for the, 373, 

Stotra-ratnam of Alavandilr, 197. 

Stupas, 11. 

Suchindram records of Vijayalaya's 
reign, 99. 

Svdariana, repairs to the, tank, 18. 

Suevi, king of the, and Q. Metellus 
Celer, 59. 

Suggald Devi, 388. 

Su}en,gal, terntory of SinganaDeva, 
118. 

Sundaram Pillai, Mr., on the date 
of SuudramQiti Nayanar, 866 ; 



on the date of the oonquest of 

Kalingam, 381. 
Sundramurti Ndyandr, 321, 366, 

381, 394. 
Sundara Pandya, 37 ; expulsion of, 

110 ; Maravarman, 157,334, 398. 
Sundarar, 190, 375 ; contemporary 

of Cheraman, 876. 
Sunga dynasty founded, 12 ; over- 
_ thrown, 13 ; age, 14. 
Sungandavirla Chola, see Kulot- 

tunga I. 
Siirasenas, 7. 
Sutra period, Aryan migration 

in the, 416. 
Sveta, ally of Kanaka, 367. 
Swaminathaiyer , Mahdmahopddy- 

dya Pundit, service of, to Tamil 

literature, 324-5, 340. 
Swdyambhu Vaijyandtha, 241. 

T 

Tadigaivali, 104. 

TagadUr, capital of the patrons of 

Avvai, 338 ; fall of, 358. 
Taila II, 103. 
Taila III, 247, 249, 265. 
Tailappa, ruler of Banavase, 387, 
Takkaydgapparani, 153, 319. 
Takkolam, battle of, 44, 80, 101, 

225. 
Talaidlangdnam, battle of, 64, 

357. 
Talahdd, capital of the Gangas, 77, 

80 ; capture of, 237, 240 ; capital 

of Vishnuvardhana, 245. 
Talakddugonda alias Vishnu- Var- 

dhana, 236. 
Talikota, battle of, 273, 278. 
Tamil, value of, for research work, 

315 ; the language of the Chera, 

etc., 381. 
Tamil Literature under the Palla- 

vas, 23 ; Augustan age of, 836 ; 

period in the history of 378. 



446 



ANCIENT INDIA 



Tdmralipti, 34. 
Tantrwpala Hemmddi, 251. 
Taprabane, island of, 60. 
Tdrdndth, the Tibetan Historian, 

58. 
Tardawddi, viceroyalty, 141. 
Tdrhiha Chakravarti, 239. 
Tdtd Char, Kotikanyakftdhanam, 

323. 
Tdtdrya Guru, 320. 
TaxaUon under the Cholas, 180. 
Taxila, 7, 10. 
Telci plate, 145. 
Teliigu, value of, for research work, 

315. 
Telugu Bhima defeated by Vikrama 

Chola, 152. 
Ten^ylls, see Pattuppdtlu. 
Ten-tens, see Padiffuppattu. 
Tereyur, 237-8. 
Tettarundiral of Kulasekharalvar, 

151. 
Tevdram, 194, 215, 375 ; Dr. Host's 
date for the, 376 ; of the recital 
of, 377. 
Thanesvara, supremacy of, 23. 
Thibaut, Dr., 4. 
Thimmappa Gauda defeated by 

Chikka Deva, 300. 
Thimmappa Ndyalea, successor of 

Vikrama Raya, 291. 
Tribhuvanamalla Vikramdditya, 

see Vikramdditya. 
Tripura, capture of, 299. 
Tikha, the Telugu chief. 
Tikkdlivallam assembly, 165. 
Tikkamayya Mdyaka, 268. 
Tilak, Mr. B. O , on the Aryan 

home, 4. 
Timati Venkata, see Bemati, 

Bevati. 
Timma Ndyaka, Kereyoor, 283. 
Timmatdja Hiri, flight of, 273. 
Timmaraja Wodeyar, son of 
Hiri Befad Ohamaraja, 276-Y, 
279. 



Tipu Sultan, son and successor of 

Haider, 87. 
Tiruchchirfambala Kovai, 221, 

317. 
Tirugndna Sambandar, 97 ; date 
of, 362, 381 ; contemporary of 
Sundara Paudya, 398; disputation 
with Tirumangaialvar, 413. 
Tirukkachchinambi and Rama- 

nuja, 198-9. 
Tirukkilli celebrated by NappS^al- 

aiyar, 343. 
TirukkoUyiir Nambi, preceptor of 
Ramauuja in Mantrartham, 201, 
408. 
Tirukkovilur, 32, 67, 69, 99, 339. 
Tirukkurukaippirdm Pilldn, com- 
mentator of Tir^ivoyvwU , 207 ; 
successor of Ramanuja, 211. 
Tirmndlaiydnddn, teacher of Ti- 

ruvoyinoli to RamSnuja, 202. 
Tirumaliyangar, fellow-pupil of 
Chikka Deva, 84, 272, 274, 279, 
284, 295, 303, 305, 307. 
Tirumalaikkolundu Pillai, Mr., on 
the date of ManikkavftSagar, 376 ; 
on the date of the Vaishnava 
saints, 402. 
Tirumala Rdya of Seringapatam, 
83 ; killed by Raja Wodeyar, 84 ; 
son of Ramaraja, 274, 279 ; con- 
sequence of the minority of, 280 ; 
rival of his uncle Venkatapa- 
tiraya, 281; plots against Raja 
Wo4eyar, 282 ; at the siege of 
Kesaregonte, 283 ; flight of, 284 ; 
succeeded by Raja Wo4eyar, 285. 
Tirumangaidlvdr, 151, 191, 318 ; 
age of, 322, 400, 413 ; institutes 
the recital of Tiruvoymoli, 398 ; 
life story of, 404 ; works of, 406 ; 
not a contemporary of Alavan- 
dar, 408 ; disputation with Tiru- 
gSana Sambandar, 413 ; relation 
to Sundaramurti Nftyanar, 414. 
Tirumudi Kdri, Malayaman, 343. 



INDEX 



447 



Tirunaraiyar, 404. 

Tirundrd yanapuram, erection of a 

temple at, 208, 219. 
Tirunedunddndaham, 408. 
Tirupati, temple at, Vaishnava 

or Saiva, 205, 215 ; consecra- 
tion of a Govinda temple at, 

153, 210, 220. 
Tirupparambiyam, battle of, 35, 

a, 79, 99, 362. 
Tirutiondar, 312. 
Tiruttondaitogai, 394. 
Tiruvdlangddu, agricultural settle- 
ment at, 149 ; plates, 103, 107. 
Tiruvallam records, 165. 
Tiruvalluvar, 380, 351, 355, 359, 

380, 391. 
Tiruvaludinduddsar or Nammal- 

var, 151. 
Tiruvandddi, 217. 
Tiruvarangapperumdl Ar ay ar , 

201-2. 
TiruvdSagam of JIanikkavasagar, 

322, 375. 
Tiruvdsiriyam, 398. 
Tiruvikrayna Bhatta, 159. 
Tiruvikramdpura, 140, 142. 
Tiruvilayddalpurdnavi, 338, 355, 

391. 
'"iruviruttam, 398. 
Tiruviaaippa, 102. 
Tiruvoymoli, 151, 191, 321 ; recitals 

of, 377, 405 ; learning of, by 

Nathamuni, 397. 
Tiruvoymoli Deva from a name of 

Nammalvar, 151, 191, 401. 
Tolkdppiyan, Dr. Burnell's date for 

the, 374. 
Tonda, 44-5. 

Tondamdn, chief Secretary, 178. 
Tondamdn, Karundkara, 51 (see 

also Karnasikara). 
Tondamdndfj'ur Tunjina Udai- 

ydr, 166. 
Tondamandalam, earliest conquest 
o£ the OholaB, 115, 174. 



TondanUr, 82. 

Tondi, capture of, 34, 154. 

Toramana, 21. 

Tradition, relation of, to history, 

30. 
Tulu, 249. 

Tumkur, capture of, 299. 
Turuvekere, occupation of, 294. 
Tuvarai, 342 (note). 
Tydgamdvinodan, 153. 
TydgavalH, Queen of KuJottunga, 

147. 
Tyndis (or Tondi), 60, 67. 

u 

Uchchangi, territory of Singana 

Deva, 118. 
XJchehangidrug, 236 ; siege of, 251. 
TJdayachandra, victories of, 410 ; 

General of Nandipottaraja, 410. 
Udaydditya, 236, 239. 
l/doi/araa, successor of AJatasatru,8. 
Udayanankadai, tran s 1 a t i o n of 

Brihatkathd, 328. 
Uddare, 252. 
Vgra Peruvaludi, Pandya, patron 

of the Sangam, 337 ; causes the 

collection of Ahandnaru, 338. 
Ugra Pandyan, 365 ; erects the 

fish-emblem, 356 ; Ahandnuru 

ascribed to, 360.' 
Ugra Varma Pandya, 338. 
Ujjain, 7. 
likkal records of Vijayalaya's 

reign, 99 ; of Chola administra- 
tion, J59. 
TJlagai, defeat of the Keralas at, 

123. 
Tjllangai Qonarndandyandr , S a i- 

va name of Govinda Bhattar, 

202. 
Vmmattur, conquest of, by Tim- 

maraja, 278. 
Upanishads, 8. 
Or = Township, 139. 



448 



ANCIENT INDIA 



UraiyHr, capital of the Oholas, 67, 

333 ; siege of, by Nalamkilli, 

884. 
Uruvappaharer Ilanjetchenni, 851 . 
Vttama Chola, Parakesarivarman. 

108 ; Rajendra, 106. 
Vttamasili, 102. 
Ottara, ally of Kanaka and Vijaya, 

367. 
Uttarameruchaturvedimangalam 

( = Uttarainallur), 159. 

VddMba Simha or Sri Pala, 239. 

Vachi^avali acquired by Paran- 
taka,100. 

Vaduhanambi, author of Yatitaja- 
vaibhavam, 212. 

Vaidumbas, the, own Nolambava4i, 
78 ; overthrow of, by Paran- 
taka, 100. 

VaiJekarai, 34. 

Vairdgaram, 49 ; capture of the 
elephants at, 129, 132. 

VairamegJM, BdshtrakUta Danti- 
durga, occupation of Kanchi by, 
27, 79, 322 ; break-up of the 
Pallava power after, 35, 411. 

Vaisali, capital of Magadha, 6 ; the 
Licchavvis of, 8. 

Vaishnavaism, origin of, 192 ; pre- 
valence of, before Eamanuja, 
254 ; verses Jainism, 260 ; ver3et 
Saivism, 399. 

Vajjian clan, the, 7, 8. 

Vajranddu (Bundalkhand), 42. 

Vallabhadeva 254 (see Alivira 
Bama Pandia also). 

Vallabhi dynasty, 21. 

VaUabhipatan, 34. 

Vdma Sakti Munisvardeharya, 268. 

Vamsa, the country of theVatsaB,7. 

Vanangdmudi Mudaliar, 294. 

Vanavasi, conquest of, 106. 

Vangdladiaam, conquest of, 107. 



Vanji, the Chera capital, 68. 

Varaguna Pandya, 35, 44 ; verses 
the Gangaa, 79, 98, 371 ; defeated 
by Aparajlta, 100, 321 ; verses 
Sivamara, 362. 

Vai dlmmihira, 75. 

Vdsavadatta, 8 (note). 

Vdsudeva, last of the Kushauas, 15. 

Vasumitra Prince, 13. 

Vdtdpi (Badami), burning of, 376. 

Veda, composition of the hymns of 
the, 3. 

Vedandyagam Pillai, Pundit, on 
the date of Manikkavasagar, 
326. 

Vedingas, sixfold classification of 
the, 3 ; treated of, in the Brah- 
manas and Upanlshads, 4. 

Vedinta Desika, 213, 323. 

Vedanta Dipam, 204. 

Veddnta Sdram, 204. 

Vedanta Sangraham, 204. 

Vedoji of Bijapur, 296. 

Veerabhadra Mayaka, 294. 

Veerajiah Dalaviy of K a 1 a 1 e , 
305-6. 

Vellore, an ancient chieftaincy, 32. 

Vel Pari, see Pari. 

Vembil, stormed by Varaguna, 99. 

Vendd, 110. 

Vengai (or Vengi), conquest of, by 
Vlrarajendra, 124, 

Vengaimandalam, 45. 

Vengaimandalesvara, 47. 

Vengaimarban, defeat of, by Ugra 
Pandyan, 338. 

Vengainadu, conquest of, by Raja- 
raja, 104. 

Vengi occupied by the Ohalukyas, 
22 ; boundary of, in 1084, 145. 

Vengimandalesvara, a title of 
Vijayaditya, 120. 

VenkatapaU, Pradhan, 308. 

VenkatapaU Raya of Penukon4a, 
88 ; viceroy of Tanjore, 273 ; 
practically the ruler of the Em- 



INDEX 



449 



pire 274 ; alliance of, with Baja 
Wo4eyar, 280, 284, 285 ; patron 
of Tataoharya, 323 

Venkayya, Mr., on the Pallavas, 
35; 116; on Ponparri, 127; 
identifies Rajyasundarl's father 
with ESjendra II, 145 ; on the 
identification of Vairagaram, 180 ; 
on the early life and inscriptions 
of Kulottunga, 129, 131 ; on the 
Tirupati temple, 215; on an in- 
scription in a Madras temple, 255. 

Vennkkuyattiyar, 95. 

Vennil, battle of, 62, 93, 349. 

Verfiver Cheliyan, see Ilam 
Oheliyan, 

Vichchikon, Paris' daughters 
offered to, 342, 391 ; celebrated 
by Kapilar, 355. 

Viehitra, ally of Kanaka and 
Vijaya, 367. 

Yidaiyadhikhari, despatcher, 177. 

Videhas, 3, 7-8. 

Tidharba, 12 (note) ; conquered by 
Agnimitra, 18. 

Vidisa, 10. 

Vidyaranya, 82. 

Vigndnesvara, author of the 
Mitdkshara System, 143. 

Vijaya and.Senguttavan, 380, 355j 
367-8. 

Vijayaditya, retreat of the Ohalu- 
kyas under. 111 ; succeeds 
Rajaraja, 121 ; viceroy of Vengi, 
134-5, 129, 131, 227, 333. 

Vijayaditya Mangalam, 236. 

Vijayilaya, a maker of the Chola 
empire, 98-99. 

Viyalur, 355. 

Vijaywnagar Empire, ascendancy 
of, 31, 82 ; establishment of, 
37, 63, 872 ; extent of, 273. 

Vijaya Na/rasimha, see Narasimha. 

Vijaya Pandya, 249, 251, 264. 

Vijayipura NalfUr, a Eajadhani, 
140, 287. 



Vijayavddi (Bezvvada), battle of 
121, 124. 

Vikkalan, 119, 121. 

Vikramabdlm of Ceylon, 111. 

Vikrama Chalukya, era of, 143. 

Vikrama Chola, 239 ; rise of, 248 
succeeds Kulottunga I, 152, 318 
conqueror of Kalingam, 144 
time of, 221, 363 ; land revenue 
under, 177, 183 ; is succeeded by 
Kulottunga II, 323. 

Vikrama Cholamandalam, 231. 

Vikrama Cholam Vld, 128, 130, 
348-9. 

Vikramaditya, the age of Sanskrit 
revival under, 14; Sakas occupy 
the land of, 18 ; era of, 57. 

Vikramdditya Chandragupta, 20-1. 

Vikramaditya, part played by, in 
the wars between Cholas and 
Chalukyas, 48, 81 ; retreat of, 
the Chalukyas under. 111 ; 
viceroy at Gangavadi, 113 ; 
beaten back by VIrarajendra, 
119, 253, 265; attempts of, to 
instal his brother-in-law, 128 ; 
overthrows his brothers, 138 ; 
exploits of, according to the 
Vikramankadeva Charitam, 131 ; 
treaty with Virarajendra, 135, 
233 ; viceroys of, 136, 140 ; first 
wars of, 187 ; invasions of Ben- 
gal and Assam, 138 ; wives of, 
140, 143 ; as patron of letters, 
142 ; era of, 143 ; extent of terri- 
tory of, 188 ; retires from Vengi, 
145 ; successors of, 156 ; versus 
Somesvara II, 226 ; given the 
Yanarajya, 234 ; versus 
Vishnuvardhana, 242 ; death of, 
289 ; history of, 328. 

Vikrainddilya Vishamaiila, 328. 

Vikramdditya VI, 388. 

Vikrama Ganga, Kdnchigonda 
243. 

Vikama Kdla, Chalukya, 235. 



450 



AKCIBKT INDIA 



Vikramdnlcadeva Charitam, 114, 
122, 124, 128, 133, 226, 234. 

Vikramanolamba, lord of Nolam- 
bavadi, 137. 

Vikrama Pandu of Ceylon, 111. 

Vikrama Fandya, 154, 363. 

Vikramdpuram (or Araslabldu), a 
Rajadhani, 140. 

ViJtrama Baya, DalavSy, 287-9. 

Vilinam, occupation of, by Vikra- 
maditya, 136. 

Vilivdyakura II, or Gotamlputra 
Satakarni, 16. 

Village assembly under the Cholas, 
148 ; powers and duties of the, 
159; constitution, 168; elec- 
tion of members to the, 169. 

VUlavaraiyan alias Munayan Aru- 
molidevan, 149. 

Vimaldditya, son-in-law of Raja- 
raja, 45 ; married to Kundav- 
vaiyar, 104, 115. 

yinaydditya, lieutenant of Ahava- 
malla, 136, 141, 253. 

Yinaydditya Soysala, Thribhu- 
vanamalla, 111, 230, 232. 

Vinson, Prof. Julien, on Vaishna- 
vaism, 254 ; on the history of 
Tamil literature, 373. 

Vira Belldla, see Belldla. 

Virabhadran Tillaividangan , 178. 

Vira Ghola, a title of Virarajendra, 
116, 126. 

Vira Ganga Vishnuvardhana, 236. 

Vira Kerala, 110, 155. 

Virakerala Varman, 363. 

Virakkal, 385. 

Vira Narasimhadeva Polafvadan 
dandiha, 260. 

Vira Pandya, 103, 154, 242, 244, 
249, 264, 361, 863. 

Virarajendra versus Vikramaditya 
in the war between the Cholas 
and the Chalukyas, 47 ; investi- 
tures under, 114 ; conquests and 
titles of, 116 ; beats back Vikra- 



maditya, 119 ; not a usurper, 
120; northern invasion of, 121, 
242, 245 ; at Kadal Sangamam, 
123 ; conquest of Vengi by, 
124 ; burning of Kampili, 125 ; 
Civil Administration and con- 
quest of Kadaram, 125 ; patron 
of Virasoliyam, 127 ; assists 
Vijayaditya in usurping, 131 ; 
treaty with Vikramaditya, 135, 
226, 233 ; invasion of Kalingam, 
145 ; accession to power, 232 ; 
grants Yauarajyam to Vikrama- 
ditya, 234. 

Virarajendra Deva Bdjakesari- 
varman, 134, 166. 

Virarajendra Jayamurinaddlvdn , 
178. 

Virarajendra Mangal apperar- 
aiyan, 178. 

Vira Bavi Varman, Chera, rules in 
the middle of the 12th century, 
.364. 

Virasdlameghan of Ceylon, 111. 

Viraiola llango, 128, 165. 

Virasoliyam of Buddhamitra, Pro- 
fessor Vinsons' date for, 37, 127 ; 
Dr Burnell's date for, 374, 382. 

Virasomesvara, HI, 158. 

Viirdta, 252. 

Virupdkshapura record, 238. 

Vishalakshana, Pundit, Jain tutor 
of Chikkadeva, 84, 300, 303. 

Vishaya = division, 139. 

Vishnu, temples to, 23 ; worship 
of, 32. 

Vishwigopa of Kanchi, 22-3, 224; 
contemporary of Samudragupta, 
362 ; Pallava ascendancy dates 
from, 871. 

Vishnugupta, 4. 

Vishnukamaldvildsin, 140, 142. 

Vishnuvardhana Hoysala, 45, 51, 
81, 141, 224 ; persecution of the 
Jains under, 219, 227, 232 ; ex- 
pedition against Nolambavadi, 



INEDX 



451 



235 ; conquests of, 236 ; titles of, 
238; conversion to Vaishnavaism, 
title of, 207, 219, 257, '332; to 
Banavasi, 249 ; Mysore at the 
time of, 250 ; erection of temple 
by, 261 ; not a sectarian, 262 ; 
begins the consolidation of 
Mysore, 263, 364 ; death of, 245. 

Yishnuvardhana Vijayadiiya, 114, 
120, 188. 

Vitala Deva, see Bitti Deva. 

Yiyalur, 357. 

Visagapatam Plates, 145. 

Wang-Biuen-t'se, a Chinese am- 
bassador, 26. 

Warangal, overthrow of, 53. 

Wellesley, Sir Arthur, Commander 
of the British forces in Mysore, 
88. 

TVilks, Col., on the selection of a 
monarch by Haidar for Mysore, 
86 ; historical sketches of, 272 ; 
on Yadu Raja, 275 ; on the parti- 
tion of the estate, 277 ; on Betad 
Wodeyar, 279 ; on the death of 
Vikrama Eaya, 290 ; on the 
successor of Kantlrava, 295. 

Wodeyars, rise of the, 83, 275 ; 
significance of the term, 274 ; 
decline of the prosperity of the, 
304. 

Wusung, the, defeat of, by Yueh- 
chi, 56. 

Y 

Yddavabhyudayam, 323. 

Yidavachakravarti, a title of Vira 
Bellala, 252. 

Yddcxa Nikandu, 213. 

Yadavaprakdsa, the advaita guru 
of KamSnuja, 195 ; differences of, 
with the disciple, 196 ; plots of, 

31 



against the disciple, 197 ; conver- 
sion of, by the disciple, 201 ; 
examination into the truth of 
the story, 213. 

Tddavdpura, 239. 

Yadavas, the, 36, 52, 82, 155. 

Yadu JRdya, founder of the Wode- 
yar family, 275-6. 

Tagfia Sri, 368. 

Yagnamurti, the first disputant 
with Ramanuja, 203 ; the truth 
of hia conversion examined, 215. 

Yagnasena Sdtakarni, 57. 

Ydnaikkatchey , 392, 394. 

Yasddharman, ruler of Malva, 21. 

Yatidharma Samuchchayam, work 
of Goviuda Yogi, 201, 213. 

Yatirdja, Surname of Ramanuja, 
200. 

Yatirdja Vaibhavam, 212. 

Yavana, the, invasion, 16, 6-67. 

Yedaiorendd, a Chola frontier, 45, 
117. 

Yelandurumangala, 287. 

Yueh-chi, the, 15, 56. 

Yuw an -chioang, see Hiuen- 
thsang. 



FINIS 

Note. — I am obliged to my friend 
Mr. V. Gopalasami Iyengar, e.a., 
of the Mysore Government General 
and Revenue Secretariat for this 
index in the preparation of which 
he bestowed considerable time and 
labour. 



eX5~?CKeK» 



PBINTED AT THE 
E. PBESS, VEPEBY, MADEAS 

1911 



sQX'KS^ 



OPINIONS ON 'ANCIENT INDIA' 

Basingstoke, 
November 26, 1911. 
EAEL CUBZON. 

Pray accept my thanks for sending me a copy of 
your interesting work. I am indeed glad that you 
have turned your attention to such topics. 



OXFOED, 

December 7, 1911. 
Db. a. F. E. HOEENLE, M.A., PH.D., CLE. (Oxford) 
Author of 'History of hidia.' 
It is a very creditable performance, and I promise 
to myself much pleasure and no less profit from the 
reading of it. 

Let me express the hope that this may be the 
beginning of much more useful and successful work 
by you in the sphere of Indian Historical Eesearch. 



EOBHAMPTON, 

December 3, 1911. 
E. SEWELL, Esq., i.c.s. (retired) 

Author of a ' Forgotten Empire of Vijayatiagar.' 
I cannot express to you the pleasure I feel that 
a gentleman like yourself should take up so seriously 
and carefully and dispassionately the study of the His- 
tory of South India. I have been hoping for many 
years that such a work should be attempted by a 
South Indian Brahman for many reasons ; and I send 
you my warm congratulations on the happy climax of 
your labours. 



Oxford, 
December 4, 1911. 

VINCENT A. SMITH, Esq., m.a., i.c.s., etc., {retired) 

Author of ' Early History of India.' 

Your volume looks well and will be useful to me 
if I live to bring out a new edition of the Early 
History, as I hope to do. 



Camberly, 
December 4, 1911. 

Dr. G. a. GEIBESON, ph.d., c.i.e., i.c.s. {retired) 

of the Linguistic Survey of India. 

I can see clearly that Ancient India is a most 
interesting book, and that I shall profit much from 
its perusal. I trust that it is only a preliminary to 
other works on a larger scale, such as the Early His- 
tory of Southern India which as Mr. Vincent Smith 
says, is so much wanted by all students of the subject. 



Madras, 
October 27, 1911. 

J. H. STONE, Esq., m.a., f.r.hist.s., 

Madras. 

It was an excellent idea to collect your essays in 
the handsome volume which contains much of great 
interest. 



Madras, 
September 29, 1911. 

Sib S. SUBEAMANYA IYEE, k.c.i.e., ll.d., d.c.l., 

Madras, 

It is scarcely necessary for me to add that your 
literary work will bring honour to your Alma Mater. 



Mylaporb, 
November 10, 1911. 
HoN'BLE Mb. V. KEISHNASWAMI lYEE, c.s.i. 

I congratulate you on the volume of historical essays 
you have issued. 

Mallbsvakam, 
November 1, 1911. 
E. NAEASIMHACHAE, Esq., m.a., m.r.a.s. 

' Stuffed vs'ith useful and suggestive information 
elucidating several important points in South Indian 
History.' 

Halle, Germany, 
December 13, 1911. 
From Dr. E. HULTZSCH, ph.d.. 

Late Epigraphist to Madras Government. 
Many thanks for the copy of your interesting volume 
on Ancient India in ^Yhich you have treated in a 
masterly manner several problems of South Indian 
History which have interested me for many years. Let 
me congratulate you on the vivid manner in which 
you have arranged and represented the disjecta membra 
of historical information. It is no small gratification 
to me to observe that you have so carefully exami- 
ned and utilized every item which is brought to notice 
in my epigraphical publications. I shall often consult 
your volume, the value of which is enhanced by the 
full index. 



India Office, Whitehall, S.W. 
December 20, 1911. 
From Sir AV. LEB-WAENEE, k.c.s.i. 

I have to thank you for Ancient India into which I 
have dipped but which I hope to study more carefully. 
It is kind of you to remember me and I am always glad 
to see Mysore well represented in the field of letters as 
in other fields of knowledge and enterprise. Wishing 
you all the best compliments of the season etc. 



THE TIMES OF INDIA ILLUSTEATED WEEKLY. 

January 24, 1911. 

***** 

This is a noteworthy book in many respects. It is a 
proof that the historical spirit is beginning to take hold 
of English-educated Indians, who can do invaluable 
work in throwing light on the obscure chapters of Ancient 
Indian History. 



