


CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 




\) 



Cornell University Library 
BL 1410.M68 



The Sanskrit Buddhist literature of Nepa 




3 1924 007 399 342 



ip»&'d'^'^^ ^^^E 



tu '^ 





Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924007399342 



THE 



SANSKRIT BUDDHIST LITERATURE 



]sr E P A. L. 



BT 

RAJENDRAlAlA MITRA, LL. D., C. I. E. 



CALCUTTA : 

PRINTED BT J. W. THOMAS, BAPTIST MISSION PRESS. 

AND PUBLISHED BY 

THE ASIATIC SOCIETI OP BENGAL, 57, PAEK STEEET. 
1882. 



cornel!^ 
university 



^^ 



LIBRARY 



PREFACE. 



About sixty years ago a young EngKshman, placed 
by tbe exigencies of public service amidst strangers in an 
inhospitable and till tben little-known clime, occupied him- 
self in collecting materials, wbicli have since afforded tbe 
key to tbe religion of one-flftb of tbe buman race. That 
Englishman was Brian Hougbton Hodgson, and a brief 
notice of bis career in India may not be out of place bere. 

Born at tbe close of tbe last century, be entered 
tbe Bengal Civil Service as a writer on April 30, 1818. 
According to tbe rules of tbe Service at tbe time, be 
bad, on bis arrival at Calcutta, on August following, 
to attend for a year tbe College of Eort Wilbam, and pass 
tbrougb tbe usual course of training tbere. His career at tbe 
College was a bigbly satisfactory one, and be distinguished 
himself greatly by his zeal, assiduity and successful study of 
tbe Persian language. On August 20, 1819, he was appointed 
Assistant to the Commissioner of Kumaon, which office be 
exchanged, on the following year, for that of Assistant to 
tbe Resident of Kathmandu. His services in these two 
offices were weU-spoken of, and in two years (November 23, 
1822) be was promoted to tbe I^oreign Office, as Officiating 
Deputy Secretary in tbe Persian Department. At tbe be- 
ginning of 1824 he returned to Kathmandu to assume charge 
of tbe Post Office there ; but he did not bold it long. In 
March 1825, be reverted to bis former office of Assistant 
to tbe Eesident, which be held till be was himself appointed 
Resident in January 1833. His career as a Resident ex- 
tended from that time to the close of 1843, when be retired 



IV 

from the Service. His sojourn in Nepal thus extended over 
a period of twenty^one years* In I8483 he returned to India, 
and lived for nine years at Darjiling as a private resident, 
engaged in literary and scientific pursuits. 

Gifted with intellectual powers of the highest order, 
thoroughly well educated, and possessing indomitable energy, 
Mr. Hodgson was always most laudably employed, and the 
result of his labours placed him in the foremost rank as 
an accomplished man of letters and a highly successful 
cultivator of science in India. 

Of his services to Grovernment no notice need be taken 
here. Suffice it to say that he repeatedly received cordial 
thanks for them, and all along enjoyed the fullest confidence 
of his employers. To him is especially due the credit of 
frustrating, at a Very critical period, the intrigues which 
were being carried on for the overthrow of English supre- 
macy in India by the Sikhs, the Sindhians, and the Mar- 
hattas during the first Afghan war when the country 
was denuded of British troops. During the years 1838 to 
1842 he was instrumental in intercepting twenty-three 
missions from Kathmandu to the plains, and in holding back 
the Nepal Durbar from avenging the defeat it had sustained 
in 1816. His wisdom, tact, influence, and judicious manage- 
ment also contributed largely to secure for the British 
Government the cooperation of Nepalese soldiers during the 
Mutiny of 1857-58. 

His literary labours may be noticed under two heads : first, 
what were undertaken for Government ; second, what were 
rendered to the republic of letters. Under the first head come 
the various memoirs and reports which he submitted to Govern- 
ment in his official capacity. The ordinary round of duties 
devolving on an Assistant in an Indian embassy is limited 
enough ; but an officer in a foreign Court has many opportu- 
nities of collecting and digesting valuable information, and 



Mr. Hodgson utilised them to the utmost. While working 
as Assistant to the Resident, his attention was first directed 
to the military organisation of Nepal, and his studies resulted 
in two memoirs giving details regarding the then existing 
force of the Nepal Durhar, the mihtary trihes and races 
from which it was drawn, their trihal names and classifica- 
tion, their physical and moral qualities as soldiers, their pay 
and discipline, as also the manufacture of their arms and 
ammunitions. He closed his memoirs with the suggestion 
that the British Government should obtain through the 
Durbar the services of a large body of the Gurkha soldiery, 
so as, on the one hand, to reduce the chances of collision 
with Nepal, and, on the other, to remove the homogeniety of 
the Bengal army. The memoirs were very favourably 
received, and elicited the hearty thanks of Government ; but 
the suggestion was not acted upon until many years after. 

Mr. Hodgson next turned his attention to the com- 
merce of Nepal with the people of the plains on this side, 
and with those of Central Asia and China on the other. 
Por some time before the first Nepal war this commerce 
was extensive, and Mr. Hodgson's object, in the papers he 
wrote on the subject, was to furnish practical directions, 
routes and details about travelling, and custom house charges, 
with a view to revive that commerce, and divert the people 
from their warlike propensities. The topographical and 
statistical information compiled in those papers was of 
high importance, comprising as they did translations of 
some old itineraries from Kathmandu to Darjiling, and 
of all principal military routes in the valley of Nepal. 

The legal administration of the country also found in 
him an able and most faithful historiographer. The 
administration was purely Hindu, absolutely untouched by 
foreign influence for several centuries, and in it he very 
justly recognised the outcome of ancient Indian Brahmanic 



VI 



laws developed by Indian administrators. His essay on 
this subject appeared in tbe Researches of tbe Asiatic 
Society of Bengal, and for the first time gave to Europeans 
a faithful and complete picture of the social condition of the 
people of Nepal. The opinion of the Bengal Government on 
this report was thus expressed — " This subject is one which 
possesses much interest, whether for the legislator, the his- 
torian, or the philosopher. In Hindustan we look in vain 
for any traces of Hindu legislation or government. The 
Moslem conquerors have everywhere swept them away. 
And if we wish to enquire what are the features of the 
Hindu system of Jurisprudence and Judicature it is in 
Nepal we must seek for the answer. Mr. Hodgson is the 
first who has .enabled us to obtain a precise and definative 
view of the subject. His information was transmitted to 
the Grovernor- General, and the Governor- General deemed it 
of sufficient importance to authorise its publication." 

During his sojourn in Nepal Mr. Hodgson was greatly 
impressed by the evils which resulted from the borders of 
the Nepal territory, serving as an Alsatia to the criminal 
classes of India. The weakly governed dominion of the 
king of Oudh was a rich field of adventure for men of this 
class, and when hard-pressed they always found a secure 
asylum in those borders. Nor were their operations confined 
to Oudh. Well-organised parties sallied forth from the 
Terai every year, and committed depredations over the whole 
of India, as far as Dakkhan, returning from their expeditions, 
heavily laden with booty, during the rains when Thuggi and 
highway robbery were the least productive. Before devising 
means for the suppression of the evil, Mr. Hodgson deemed it 
expedient to collect information from the robbers themselves 
and others famiUar with the subject, and compiled a large 
mass of authentic depositions and facts for which he received 
the most cordial acknowledgments of Government. They 



Vll 



ultimately, but after some delay, led to the estabHshment 
of the Thuggi Department, which has completely broken up 
the organized bands of robbers which had been for a long 
time the opprobrium of eyery civilized Government in India. 
The next subject to which reference should be made 
is Indian Education. The battle fought between the 
Anglicists and the Orientalists during the administration 
of Lord William Bentinck, was of too stirring a character 
to escape the notice of Mr. Hodgson. Remarkable alike 
for the force and massiveness of his intellect and for his 
disinterestedness and devotion to the weU-being of the 
people of this country, he plunged into it with characteristic 
intrepidity. But he joined neither the Anglicists led 
by Lord WilHam Bentinck, Mr. Macaulay, Mr. Trevelyan 
and Dr. Duft", nor the Orientalists who were represented by 
Dr. Wilson, Dr. Tytler, Mr. Thoby Prinsep and Mr. John 
Oolvin. He could not for a moment believe that the English 
language could under any circumstance be made the 
vernacular of the two hundred and forty millions of India, 
and he cherished equal doubts about the fitness of the 
Sanskrit and the Arabic languages for the every-day use of 
the various nationalities and races who inhabit this vast 
country. He adopted, therefore, a middle course. Without 
detracting from the merits of the English language and 
of the ancient classics as instruments of intellectual culture 
for the select few, he held that education to be effectual 
for the masses must be imparted through the medium of 
the current vernaculars. In Europe vernacular languages 
had achieved wonderful success. They had dispelled the 
impervious gloom of the Middle Ages, and inaugurated 
an era of widespread intellectual enlightenment, the like of 
which the world had never before seen ; and he urged that, 
under similar circumstances, the vernaculars of India were 
well able to accomplish the same object. This via media, 



VUl 

however, did not commend itself to men's minds at the time. 
People in power then were so wedded to their extreme 
opinions that they could not listen to what appeared to 
them to be a mere compromise, and the admirable letters in 
which Mr. Hodgson put forth his views in the columns of 
the local newspapers and afterwards published in book-form 
were to a great extent neglected by them. But the letters 
did not fail to attract the attention of persons who had not 
fallen in with the theories of the two contending parties, 
and the testimony borne by these regarding the soundness 
of his arguments, must have been a source of great satisfac- 
tion to the learned author. In a letter to the Political 
Agent at Bhopal, in 1838, the late Dr. John Wilson, of 
Bombay, than whom few could speak with greater emphasis 
on questions relating to Indian education, remarked — " Mr. 
Hodgson's advocacy of the vernaculars is most powerful and 
convincing. They must be the medium of the regeneration 
of India, as they have been such of every country on the 
face of the globe." In the same year the official Report on 
Education in Bengal (p. 200) contained the following : 
" No one has more earnestly urged the duty of communica- 
ting European knowledge to the natives than Mr. Hodgson ; 
no one has more powerfully shown the importance of 
employing the vernacular languages for accomplishing that 
object ; no one has more eloquently illustrated the necessity 
of conciliating the learned and making them our coadjutors 
in the great work of a nation's regeneration." Eive years 
after, in his address to the Medical OoUege of Calcutta, 
Professor Sir William O'Shaughnessy said — " The progress of 
the principles of Normal and Vernacular Education cannot 
now be checked. These facts (see his address to the Medical 
College students) have deprived the anti- vernacular party 
of even a pretext for advocating the exclusive use either of 
English or of the learned native tongues. Let those who 



ix 

wish well to India, and. desire to see its inhabitants flourish 
in knowledge, visit the secondary schools of the new Medi- 
cal College, and they will see the first fruits of the Normal 
system. I have felt it an imperative duty to publish these 
important facts. It is the only contribution I can offer to 
the measures of the eminent and wise philanthropist under 
whose auspices normal instruction is now claiming public 
support." Truth once put forth can never be lost, and it is 
gratifying to notice that for the last thirty years Mr. Hodg- 
son's opinion has been very widely accepted, and much 
has already been done in India to accord to the vernaculars 
their right place in the curriculum of education. 

The next question of local value to which Mr. Hodgson 
addressed himself was the fitness of the Himalaya mountains 
for the settlement of Europeans. He had watched with lively 
interest the introduction of tea-planting at Darjiling, and 
knowing how intimately that industry was connected with 
that of European colonization in this country, he came to the 
conclusion that, though the plains would not, and could not, 
be inhabited permanently by Englishmen, no objection would 
apply to the hills, and if adequate and remunerative occupa- 
tions could be found for them there, the problem would 
at once be solved. The then Lieutenant-Governor of Bengal 
was struck by this opinion, and desired Mr. Hodgson to 
furnish him with a memorandum thereon. The report 
furnished pleased him much, and " he ordered its publica- 
tion along with some of the author's previous Essays to 
make up an entire number of the ' Selections from the 
Records.' No. XXVII was the result, whereby most of 
the aforementioned papers, though in themselves hardly 
official, became so by adoption." 

The papers above noticed form but a small fraction 
of the writings of Mr. Hodgson. A keen observer, master 
of a facile pen, and enthusiastically devoted to study, he neg- 



lected no opportunity of taking notes of all that appeared 
before him, 'whether performed by man or produced by 
nature ;' and his writings are as varied as they are roluminousj 
bearing the most satisfactory evidence of his ardent zeal, 
unremitting industry, and profound learning. Man formed 
the central figure of his study, and he devoted a great part 
of his time to researches into the elucidation of the ethnic 
relations, the languages, the ancient history, the literatures, 
and the handicrafts of the different tribes of men who fell 
under his observation. His ethnologicial papers* include 

* The following is a list of the papers : — 

1. On the Languages, Literature, and Religion of the Bauddhas of 
Nepal and Bhot. As. Res. vol. XV L 

2. On the Aborigines of the Sub-Himalayas. Jour. A. S. B. vols. XVI. 

3. Etlmography and Geography of the Sub-Himalayas, ih., vol. XVII, p. I. 

4. On the Chepang and Kusunda Tribes of Nepal, ib., vol. XVII. 

5. Comparative Vocabulary of the Languages of the broken tribes of 
Nepal, ih., vols. XXVI and XXVII. 

6. On the several Dialects of the Kiranti language, ih., vol. XXVI. 

7. Vayu Vocabulary, ib., vol. XXVI. 

8. Vayu Grammar, ib., vol. XXVL 

9. Bahing Vocabulary, ib., vol. XXVI. 

10. Grammar of the Bahing dialect, ib., vol. XXVII. 

11. Origin and Classification of the Military Tribes of Nepal, ih., vol. II, 

12. Classification of the Newars ; or People of Nepal Proper, ib, 
vol. III. 

13. Sifan and Horsok Vocabularies. On the Trans-himalayan Tribes of 
Hor-Yeul, Sog-Yeul, and Sifan, ib., vol. XXII. 

14. On the Tibetan Type of Mankind, ih , vol. XVII, p. II. 

15. Caucasian and Mongolian Affinities, ib., vol. XXII. 

16. Comparative Vocabulary of the several Languages and Dialects of 
the Eastern Sub-Himalayas from the Kali or Ghogra to Dhansri, ih. vol. XVI. 

17. 18. On the Aborigines of the North East Frontier (Assam and 
south of it), ib., vols. XVIII and XIX. 

19. Indo-Chinese borderers and their connection with the Himalayan 
and Tibetan tribes, ib., vol. XXII. 

20. On the Aborigines of the South of India ; cultivated and unculti- 
vated, ib., vols. XVIII, XIX. 



all the different and till then almost unknown tribes of the 
Eastern Himalayas to the Indo-Chinese borders, and several 
of Central and Southern India as far as Ceylon, and the 
information collected have been pronounced by competent 
judges to be of high scientific value. Speaking of one of 
them — the litttle volume on the Kooch, Bodo and Dhimal 
tribes, — Dr. Latham writes : " The Kooch, Bodo and Dhimal, 
is the title of one of Mr. Hodgson's works, and it is a model 
of an ethnological monograph." Speaking more generally, 
he says, " Next come in brilliant succession the labours of 
Botta, Layard, and Eawlinson, to which may be added the 
bold yet cautious criticism and varied observations of 
Hodgson, illustrating the obscure Ethnology of the Hima- 
layan Indians." Chevalier Bunsen, in his ' Philosophy of 
Universal History,' is equally emphatic in his estimate of 
Mr. Hodgson's works. According to him, " our highest 
living authority and best informant on the Ethnology of 
the native races of India is Mr. B. H. Hodgson, who uses 
Tamilian as the general name of the Non- Aryan races." 

Dr. Hooker dedicated his " Rhododendrons of Himalaya" 
to Mr. Hodgson, " whose researches into the physical geogra- 
phy and especially the ethnology of the people of the Eastern 
Himalaya," he said, " are beyond all praise." Professor Owen, 
in his report to the British Association, May 1863, bore the 
following testimony on the subject : " Mr. Hodgson, my 
accomplished and scientific friend, has contributed an 
important element to the Ancient History of India, by his 
Buddhist researches, and he has now established an addi- 
tional claim to the gratitude of the Ethnologist, by the 
collection he has made of the skulls of various tribes." Dr. 

21, 22. On the Aborigines of the Nilgii-is, two papers, ii., vol. XXV. 

23. On the Aborigines of the Eastern Ghats. 

24. On the Aborigities of Ceylon. 

25. On the Aborigines of Central India, J A. S. B., vol. XVII. 

26. On the Kooch, Bodo and Dhimal Tribes, ib., vol. XVIII. 



Xll 

Barnard Davis, on the same occasion, said : " Mr. Hodgson 
early and constantly felt that the most interesting object of 
natural history is man himself, and he devoted his unremit- 
ting attention to the study of the many curious tribes with 
whom his long residence in India brought him in contact. 
He studied the physical and philological aspects of the 
subject, and was at infinite pains to gain a knowledge of 
the ideas as well as languages of these races. One of 
the most complete Ethnological Essays ever written, is Mr. 
Hodgson's book on Kooch, Bodo, and Dhimal Tribes." 
Other authorities, equally distinguished, have spoken in 
similar terms of Mr. Hodgson's ethnological works, but I 
shall forbear to quote them. 

Mr. Hodgson's researches into religion are limited to 
that form of it which prevails in Nepal — the Buddhism of 
S'akya Sihha as it manifested itself in that Alpine region on 
its expulsion from Hindustan, — but he has done more on 
that subject than any other European writer.* Before his 

* The following are the titles of his essays on this subject : 

1. Sketch of Buddhism, derived from the Bauddha Scriptures of Nepal. 
Trans. R. A. S., vol. ii. 

2. Quotations in proof of the above. Jour. R. A. 8., vol. V. 

3. On Buddhist Symbols, ib., vol XVIII. 

4. 5. On the Eesemblance of the Symbols of Buddhism and Sinaism. 
Quart. Ori. Mag., vol. VII, two papers. 

6. On the Bauddha Literature and Religion of Nepal. As. Res., vol. 
XVI. 

7. Sketch of Buddhism. Jour. As. Soc, vol. V. 

8. On Bauddha Inscriptions, ii., vol. III. 

9. On Ancient Inscriptions, ih., vol. III. 

10. On Sarnath Inscriptions, ih., vol. IV. 

11. On the Ruins of Samaran (Simroun), ih., vol, IV. 

12. Remarks on an Inscription in the Runga and Tibetan characters 
from Nepal, ih., vol. IV. 

13. On the Relics of the Catholic Mission in Tibet and Nepal, ih. 
vol XVII, p. II. 

14. A Bauddha Disputation on Caste, Trans. R. A. S., vol. III. 



XUl 



time all that was known of Buddhism was crude, vague and 
shadowy, derived from secondary and by no means reliable 
sources. He it was who established the subject on a sound 
philosophic basis. To quote the language of M. Osoma de 
Koros, than whom no European had studied the literature of 
Tibetan Buddhism with greater success, " Mr. Hodgson's 
illustrations of the literature and religion of the Buddhists 
form a wonderful combination of knowledge on a new subject 
with the deepest philosophical speculations." The opinion of 
the illustrious savant, Eugene Burnouf, in regard to one of 
Mr. Hodgson's papers is equally emphatic. In his Intro- 
duction to the History of Buddhism, he says, " In the Asiatic 
Researches for the year 1828 was contained a dissertation 
by Mr. Hodgson, full of ideas entirely new regarding the 
languages, literature, and religion of Nepal and of Tibet ; 
and this first essay contained also an account of the different 
philosophical schools of Buddhism, which has never since 
been surpassed or equalled. This first memoir yet further 
teemed with value as bringing to Hght, among other impor- 
tant discoveries, the grand and theretofore wholly unknown 
fact that in Nepal there existed numerous Buddhist works 
composed in Sanskrit, the original language of Buddhism." 
Altogether he has written 18 papers on the subject, and they 
are replete with most varied and instructive information. 
Much has been done since, but no one can even now write 
on Buddhism with any accuracy who has not thoroughly 
studied Mr. Hodgson's essays. 

Reference has already been made to Mr. Hodgson's 
Memoirs on Law, Legal Practice, Police and Administration 
of Justice in Nepal. On economic subjects there are extant 

15. On the Primary Language of the Buddhist Writings. Jour. As. 
Soc, vol. VI. 

16. European Speculations on Buddhism, ib., vol. III. 

17. Eemarks on M. Eemusat's Review of Buddhism, ih., vol. III. 

18. Translation of the Napalia Devata Kalyana, ih., vol. XII. 



XIV 

papers by Hm on the Wool of Tibet, on the Cultivation of 
Hemp in Nepal, on the Paper of Nepal, and on the Silk- 
worms of India.* 

No one can live on the Himalayas without being deeply 
impressed by the subKme scenery around him, and to 
students of science it affords the richest field for enquiry 
and research. The lofty snow-capped peaks, the wonderful 
glaciers, the intricate river systems, the high tablelands, 
the fertile valleys, the flora and the fauna, so peculiar, so 
characteristic, so distinct from everything of the kind seen 
in other parts of the globe, are all fraught with instruction 
of the deepest interest to science, and Mr. Hodgson devoted 
himself to their study with the greatest ardour. Eew were 
at the time better qualified by previous training, habit of 
research, and scientific acumen to do them adequate justice, 
and the various essays and notes he has published on the 
Physical Geography, Topographyt and Pauna prove the suc- 

* The titles of the papers are : 

1. On the Law and Legal Practice of Nepal, Jour .E. A S., vol. 1. 

2. Some Account of the Systems of Law and Police in Nepal, ib. 

3. On the Administration of Justice in Nepal, As. Res., vol. XX. 

4. On the Wool of Tihet, Trans. Agri. Soc. of India, vol. VIII. 
E. On the Cultivation of Hemp in Nepal, ib. vol. V. 

6. On the Paper of Nepal. Jour. A S. B.vol. I. 

7. On the Silk-worms of India, Jour. Agri. Soc. of India, vol. II 

t The following are the titles of the papers on Physical Geography and 
Topography : 

1. On the Physical Geography of the Himalayas, ib., vol. XVIII, p. II. 

2. On the snow line in the Himalayas, ib., vol. XVIII. 

3. Memorandum on the seven Kasis of Nepal, ib., vol. XVII, p. II. 

4. Eoute from Kathmandu to Tazedo on the Chinese frontier. As. Res., 

vol. XVII. 

5. Eoute of two Nepalese embassies to Pekin, with remarks on the 

watersheds and plateaus of Tibet, J. A. S. B., vol. XXV. 

6. Eoute from Kathmandu to Darjiling, ib. vol. XVII, p. II. 

7. Measurement (official) of the great Military Eoad throughout Nepal, 

from Kumaon to Sikim, ib. 18 (?) 

8. A cursory Notice of Nayakote, ib., vol. IX. 



XV 

cess with which he prosecuted his researches. Adverting 
to the essay on the Physical Geography of the Himalaya 
Mountains and Tibet, Baron Humboldt remarked, " La 
chaine de 1' Himalaya *a eu dans ces derniers temps des 
savants observateurs, M. Hodgson et le Oapt, Strachey, 
que r^unit une grande vari6t6 connaissances sohdes." 
Studying Mr. Hodgson's statements and map, proving the 
identity of the Sampu and the Brahmaputra rivers, the 
great Indian geographer, Pemberton, remarked, " I consider 
this so satisfactory that nothing but ocular demonstration 
to the contrary could now shake off my conviction." 

The fruits of his zoological researches are contained in a 
series of one hundred and twenty-three papers,* alike remark- 

* Their titles are : 

1. On the Mammalia of Nepal, Jour. As. Soc, vol. I. 

2. On the same continued up to 1841, ib. vol. X. 

3. On the Mammalia of Tibet, ib. vol. V. 

4. On the same up to 1842, ib. vol. XI. 

5. Catalogue of the Mammals of Nepal and of Tibet brought down 

to 1843, M'Clelland's Journal, 1843. 

6. On the Eats, Mice, and Shrews of Nepal (to complete the Mammal 

Catalogue up to 1843) Ann. and Mag. of Nat. History, 1845. 

7. On the Geographical Distribution of the Mammals of Nepal, Proc. 

Zool. Soc. 1847. 
[See XXVII of Selections, Art. Phy. Geog. of Nepal, J. A. S.] 

8. Characters and Descriptions of the New Mammals from Nepal, ib. 

vol. I. 

9. Description of the Chiru Antelope, ib. vol. I, 

10. Further account of ditto ib. vol III. 

11. Description and Characters of the Wild Dog of Nepal, ib. 1833. 

12. On various Zoological subjects, ib. vol. III. 

13. Synopsis of the Ghoral and the Thar, ib. vol, IV. 

14 to 17. Wild Goat and Wild Sheep of the Himalaya with remarks 
on the Genera Capra and Ovis, ib. vols. IV, V, XII and XVI. 

15. On the Lachrymal Sinus in Antelope, Thar and Cervus Aristotelis, 

ib. vol. III. 

16. On a new form of the Hog kind or Porcula Salvania, ib. XVI, p. I. 



XVI 

able for great originality, mimite observation, keen acu- 
men, high critical skill, and thorough knowledge of the 
requirements of scientific classification. Most of the species 
of mammals and birds were, when described by him, new to 
science and typical, and the light thrown by them on 
the fauna of the Himalayan and trans-Himalayan regions 
is immense. To show this I cannot do better than 
quote, as I have so often done above, the opinions of 
those who are best able to speak authoritatively on the 
subject. " Mr. Hodgson's labours," says Dr. Hooker in his 

17. On a new species of Badger from Tibet, J. A. S., vol. XVI, p. II. 

18. On the Wild Goat and Wild Sheep of Nepal, As Ees., vol. XVIII. 

19. On the Eatwa Deer, ih. vol. XVIII, p. II. 

20. On Cuon Priraoevus, J. A. S. B., vol. I. 

21. On Ursitaxus Inauritus, ih. vol. V. 

22. On three new species of Paradoxurus, with remarks on the structure, 

and habits of the genera, ib. vol. III. 

23 On Antelope Hodgsoni, ib., vol. I. 

24. On the Black Antelope, Gleanings in Science, vol. II. 

25. On a new species of Felis, ib. vol. III. 

26. On the Musk Deer, ih. vol. III. 

27. On the Gervus Jarai, ib. vol. III. 

28. On the Jharal Goat, ib. vol. III. 

29. On the Chiru Antelope, ib. vol. III. 
80. On Nepal Zoology, J. A. S. B., vol. I. 

31. On a new Lagomys and a new Mustela, inhabiting the northern 

region of Sikim and the proximate parts of Tibet, ib. vol. XXVI. 

32. Specific description of a new species of Cervus, ib. vol. IV. 

33. On the Wild Goat of Nepal, ib. vol. V. 

34. On Zool. Nomenclature, ib. vol. V. 

35. On the new genus Ursitaxus, As. Kes. vol. XIX. 

36. On the Gauri Gau, ib. vol. VI. 

37. On a new genus of the Plantigrades, ib, vol. VI. 

38. On Bibos, a new Bovine genera typed by the Gauri Gau, ih. vol. VI. 

39. On the Hare of the Gangetic Provinces, the Himalaya and Tibet, 

ib. vol. IX. 

40. On the genera Semno-pithecus et Macacus with description of 

three new species, ib. vol. IX. 



XVIX 

Himalayan Journal, "have extended over twenty -five years 
during all which time he has seldom had a staff of less than 

41. On Cervus Elaphus of the Saul Forest of Nepal, As. Res. vol. X. 

42. On the Marmots of Himalaya and Tibet, ib. vol. X. 

43. Illustrations of the genera of the Bovinse, part 1. Skeletons of Bos, 

Bibos and Bison, the individuals examined being the common Bull 
of Kepal, the Gowri Gao of Nepal, and the Yak, ib. vol. X. 

44. Of a new species of Lagomys, inhabiting Nepal, ib. vol. X. 

45. On a new organ in the genus Moschus, ib. vol. X. 

46. Classical Terminology of Natural History, ib. vol. X. 

47. Second Paper on the Marmots of Himalaya and Tibet, and on a 

new species of Ehinolophus, ib. vol. XII. 

48. On a new species of Cervus Dimorphe, ib. vol. XII. 

49. On the structure and habits of Prionodon Pardicolor. 

50. On the Hispid Hare of the Saul Forest, J. A. S. B. vol. XVI. 

51. On the Genera of the Ruminants, ib. vol. XVI. 

52. Summary of the Vespertilionidse of Nepal, ib. vol. IV. 

53. Summary description of two new species and Flying Squirrel ib. 

vol. XIII. 

54. On three new species of Musk inhabiting the Himalayan districts, 

ib. vol. VIII. 

55. Summary description of four new species of otter, ib vol. VIII. 

56. On the Anatomy of Ailurus, Porcula, and Stylocerus, with 

corrections of the paper on Ruminants, ib. vol. XVII. 

57. Addendum to the Anatomy of Ailurus, ib. vol XVII p. II. 

58. On the Cat-toed Plantigrades of the Himalaya, ib. vol. XVII. 

59. On the Polecat of Tibet, ib. vol. XVIII. 

60. On a new species of Himalayan Mole, ib. 1849. 

61. On the domesticated Goats and Sheep of the sub-Himalayas and 

Tibet, ib. V. XVI, p. II. 

62. On Budoreas Taxicolor, a new genus of Bovine Antelopes, ib. vol. XIX. 

63. .Description of a new species of Himalayan Mole, ib. XXVII. 

64. On a second new species of Himalayan Lagomys, ib. XXVI. 

65. On the Shou or Tibetan Stag, ib. vol. XIX. 

66. Further Account of the Shou, ib. vol. XX. 

67. On the Ponies of Tibet and Himalaya, Ben. Sport, Mag., 1840 (?) 

68. The Jharal Hunter's Song, ib. 1840. 

69. On two species of Wild Sheep inhabiting the Himalaya, with remarks 

on the craniological characters of the Ovis and its allies, Jour. 
As. Soc, vol, X. 



XVUl 

two to twenty persons of various tongues and races employed 
as translators, collectors, artists, shooters, and stuff ers. By 

70. On the Wild Ass and Wolf of Tibet, McClelland's Jour. Nat. 

History, 1847. 

71. On the Pigmy Hog of the Saul Forest, J. A. S. B., vol. XVI. 

72. Postscript to ditto, ih. vol, XVI. 

73. On a new species of Porcupine, ib. vol. XVI. 

74. Definitions and descriptions of new genera and species of Nepal 

Birds, not heretofore published in India, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1845. 

75. Catalogue of Nepal Birds collected between 1824 and 1844, Zool. 

Misc. 1844. 

76. Reprint of the above Catalogue in India for reasons assigned, 

Jour. As. Soc, vol. XXIV. 

77. Additions to the Bird Catalogue of 1844, bringing it down to 1854, 

Cur^ Moore, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1854. 

78. On Ninox, a new piscatory genus of the Strigine family, ih. vol. V. 

79. On the structure and habits of Elanus Melanopterus, ib. vol. VI, 

75, 18 (?) 

80. On sundry new species of Nepalese Cinnyris, Ind. Eev., 1, 272. 

18(?) 

81. On new Nepalese species of Edolian and Ceblepyrine Shrikes, ib. 

324, 18 (?) 

82. On new species of the more typical Laniidse, ib. 445, 18 (?) 

83. On the new genus Niltava, ib. 18 (?) 

84. On the new forms of the Parianee and Leiotrichanae, ib. 18 (?) 

85. On a new species of Partridge, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1833. 

86. On the Scolopacidae of Nepal, ih. 1834. 

87. On Nepalese Birds, ib. 1845. 

88. Description the Aquila Nepalensis, As. Res. vol. XVIII. 

89. On the Migration of the Grallatores and Natatores. Gleanings in 

Science, vol. II. 

90. On the Homrai Bueeras, ib. vol. II. 

91. Notes on the Ornithology of Nepal, A. R. vol. XIX. 

92. On a new species of Bucerine Bird (Aceros Nepalensis), G. in S. 

vol. I, 1829. 

93. On the Scolopacidae, ib. vol. II. 

94. On the new species of Buceros, J. A. S. B., vol, II. 

95. On Aquila Nepalensis, ib. vol. II. 

96. On Circoectus Nepalensis, ib. 1833. 

97. On Nepal Zoology, ib, vol. II. 



XIX 

unceasing exertions and. princely liberality he has unveiled 
the mysteries of Buddhism, chronicled the affinities, lan- 

98. On the Bearded Vulture of the Himalaya, J, A. S. B., vol. IV. 

99. On the Eed-billed Erolia, ib. vol IV. 

100. Summary description of some new species of Falconidffi, ih. vol. V. 

101. Addition to the Ornithology of Nepal, ih vol. V. 

102. Notes on Zoological Nomenclature, ib. vol. V. 

103. On new species of Columba, ih. vol. V. 

104. On new Incessores, ib. vol. V. 

105. On Charadriadse, ih. vol. V. 

106. On Falconidse, ih. vol. V. 

107. • On Yunxinse, ib. vol. V. 

108. On Certhiadffi, ih. vol. V. 

109. New species of Hirundinidse, ib. vol. V. 

110. On Indian Thrushes, ib. vol. VI. 

111. Indication of a new genus of Incessorial Bird, ib. vol. VI. 

112. Description of three new species of Wood-peckers, ib. vol. VI. 

113. On a new genus of the Sylviadse, ib. vol. VI. 

114. On some new genera of the Eaptores, ib. vol. VI. 

115. New species of Scolopacidae, ib. vol. VI. 

116. On a new genus of the Pheasant group {Orossopticon Tibetanum) , 

ib. vol. VII. 

117. On Cuculus, ib. vol. VIII. 

118. Notice of a new form of the Glaucopinse or rasorial crows, inhabit- 

ing the northern region of Nepal, ib. vol. X. 

119. On Conostoma iEmodium, ib. 1841. 

120. Description of a new genus of the Falconidse, ib. vol. XII. 

121. Catalogue of Nepalese Birds presented to the Asiatic Society, ib, 

vol. XII. 

122. Additions to the above Catalogue, ib. vol, XII. 

123. On a new species of Partridge from Tibet. (P. HbdgsorKs), ib. 

vol. XXV 

124. On the new genus Merva, ib. vol. XII. 

125. Ott the Charj or Otis Bengalensis, ib. vol. XVI. 

126. On a New Genus of the Meropidse, J. A. S. B , vol. V. 

127. A new Genus of the Picadae, also two new species of the Genus 

Sitta, ib. vol. V. 

128. Two new species of Meruline Birds from Catamandu, ih. vol. VIII. 

129. On a a new species of Plecotus, ib. vol. XVI. 

130. On a new genus of the Fissirostrial Tribe at Catimandu, ih. vol. VIII. 



XX 



guages, customs and faiths of the Himalayan Tribes, and 
completed a natural history of the quadrupeds and birds of 
these regions. Throughout the Bird and Quadruped depart- 
ments of our national Museum, Mr. Hodgson's name stands 
prominent." Dr. Jerdon says, " Mr. Hodgson, for many 
years our accomplished Minister at the Court of Nepal, has 
added largely to our knowledge of the birds of the Himalaya, 
few of which escaped his notice. His papers are distin- 
guished by deep research and great acumen, and are very 
full of details of structure." 

The following extract from the Natural History Review 
for April 1865, p. 156, is also worthy of notice : 

"About the year 1832, Mr. B. H. Hodgson, for many years British resi- 
dent at the Court of Nepal, began his labours. This gentleman, it may be fairly 
said, has distinguished himself far beyond all his fellow-workers, by the great 
extent of his collections, and the numerous observations he has given to the 
public on almost every branch of Natural Science. Before Mr. Hodgson com- 
menced his residence in Nepal, the Zoology of that country and of the high ranges 
of the great adjacent mountain-chain was almost unknown in Europe, and the 
novelties, which it fell to his lot to discover and describe, were consequently both 
striking and numerous. With the utmost liberality Mr. Hodgson has from 
time to time presented the whole of his enormous collections to the British 
Museum, and to other scientific institutions in this country, and though it is 
much to be regretted that he has never collected the whole of his scattered 
•writings into one connected series, this deficiency has been to some extent sup- 
plied by two catalogues of Mr. Hodgson's collections, published by the Trustees 
of the British Museum in 1846 and 1863 Referring to the list of Birds in 
the second edition of this catalogue (prepared, we believe, by Mr. G. E. Gray,) 
it will be seen that the species of' this class of Vertebrates obtained by 
Mr. Hodgson, in Nepal, Sikim, and Tibet number no less than 168. Nearly the 
whole of these are represented in our National Collection, through Mr. Hodg- 
son's munificence, by several specimens in skins as well as by drawings 
made from life, and in many instances by skeletons or portions of skeletons." 

The time, trouble, and expense incurred in collecting 
materials for the above contributions were immense. 
Hunters, taxidermists, collectors, draftsmen, copyists, and 
translators had to be organised and trained, their works 



XXI 



constantly watched and directed, and their charges all de- 
frayed from a private purse ; and, amidst his onerous official 
duties and private literary occupation, Mr. Hodgson cheer- 
fully did all that was necessary or desirahle. Of the work 
done by his staff of hunters and taxidermists, some idea 
may be formed from the fact that no less than a total of 
10,499 specimens, including 9,512 birds, 903 mammals, and 
84 reptiles &c., all their handiwork, were presented to the 
British Museum, besides several thousands more to the 
Asiatic Society of Bengal and other scientific bodies. Du- 
plicates from these collections have been distributed to the 
chief European and American Societies. 

The draftsmen were employed in drawing natural 
history specimens and ethnological, architectural and anti- 
quarian subjects, as also maps, plans, routes &c. The 
drawings were made of one uniform size, folio, each con- 
taining one or more subjects. There is no record to show the 
total number of drawings prepared under the superin- 
tendance and at the expense of Mr , Hodgson ; but he 
presented 1,241 sheets containing drawings of birds and 567 
sheets of mammals to the Zoological Society of London; 
55 sheets of reptiles &c. to the British Museum ; 46 sheets 
of ethnological illustrations to the Christie Collection ; 61 
sheets of ditto to the Anthropological Society of London ; 
66 sheets of architectural drawings to the India Office 
Library ; and 24 sheets of architectural and 258 sheets of 
archselogical drawings to the Institute of France. The last 
were accompanied by a large mass of MSS., mostly in 
Sanskrit, explanatory of the Buddhist drawings. It is to 
these that M. Bumouf repeatedly refers in his great work 
on the History of Indian Buddhism. 

Mr. Hodgson's collection comprised a great number of 
ethnographical specimens, mostly crania, which haye been 
given to the British Museum. It included, moreover, three 



xxu 

trunks full of MSS. of various kinds, in Sanskrit, Newari, 
Persian, and English (mostly unpublished essays, papers and 
notes by Mr. Hodgson, and translations from old Indian 
records), which had been amassed for the full exposition of 
the history, institutions, races and tongues, revenue and 
commerce of Nepal and other Indian places. The whole of 
this collection was presented to the India Office, in August 
1864, along with a detailed catalogue of its contents. The 
catalogue is too long to be copied here, but the following 
extract from the report of the Librarian of the India Office 
will give an idea of the value attached to the collection by a 
competent judge. 

" Mr. Hodgson's present to our Library is indeed one of eminent im- 
portance, if only embracing materials from which, for the first time, the 
history, political, religious and linguistic, of Nepal might be digested by a 
competent scholar. That a person duly qualified to undertake such a 
compilation be found is highly desirable ; though no one in any wise so ably 
as the learned donor himself could execute an account of a people, among 
whom, in the advantageous and responsible position of British Eesident at 
the Court of Kathmandu, Mr. Hodgson passed nearly a quarter of a century. 
At least it is earnestly to be hoped that Mr Hodgson's health will still 
render it practicable for him to contribute a single chapter, and that a most 
valuable one, to the history of Nepal, in a narrative of the measures by 
which he succeeded, on more than one critical occasion, in restraining the 
Nepalese from disastrous irruption into the plains of India. The influence 
that effectuated this check, was wholly personal to Mr Hodgson, and yet 
the service here referred to, though of momentous import, has never, it occurs 
to me, been recognised. 

" The Sanskrit and other oriental MSS. sent by Mr. Hodgson are a priceless 
addition to our collection. Of most of these there are no other copies in 
Europe." 

Among the papers contained in this collection was a 
number of vocabularies of the non- Aryan vernaculars of 
India and its frontiers, and these have been most satisfactorily 
utilised in Dr. W. W. Hunter's Non- Aryan Dictionary. 

There are yet two other contributions made by Mr. Hodg- 
son to the cause of knowledge which require to be noticed 



XXIU 

here. Tlie first is a collection of zylographs, comprising 
two complete sets of the great cyclopedias of Tibet, the 
Kahgyur and the Stangyur. Each set is made up of 334 
bulky volumes, printed with wooden blocks on Tibetan paper, 
in the Indian puthi form, and comprises the whole circle 
of the sacred literature of the Tibetans. Analyses of these 
grand compilations have been published by M. Csoma 
de Koros in the last volume of the Asiatic Researches and 
in the Journal of the Asiatic Socity of Bengal, and they 
show the high value of the works for a correct understand- 
ing of the religion of Buddha as current beyond the Hima- 
layan range. The number of copies extant of these grand 
com.pilations is exceedingly limited. The Kahgyur alias 
Kangyur includes no less than a hundred volumes, arranged 
under the three grand divisions of Dulva, Do, and Sherchin, 
whence their common name De-not-sum, Sanskrit, Tripithaka, 
" The three Repositories." This is obviously of the same 
character as the Buddhist Tripithaka as now known in China 
and Japan, of which E-ev. S. Beal has lately published a useful 
catalogue, though the order of arrangement and the con- 
tents are not the same. The whole of the works in either 
case is strictly sacred or religious. The name Kahgyur 
means " translations of commandments," and the works are 
avowed to be translations of texts existing between the 7th 
and the 13th centuries, mostly in the 9th, in the language 
of Magadha. 

" The Stangyur is a compilation in Tibetan of all sorts 
of literary works, written, mostly by ancient Indian Pandits, 
and some learned Tibetans, in the first centuries after the 
introduction of Buddhism into Tibet, commencing with the 
seventh century of our era. The whole makes two hundred 
and twenty-five volumes. It is divided into two classes -the 
Is and ^Bgyud and Mdo, (Tantra and Sutra classes in 
Sanskrit). The ' Egyud,' mostly on Tantrika rituals and 



XXIV 

ceremonies, makes eighty-seyen volumes. The ' Mdo,' on 
science and literature, occupies one hundred and thirty-six 
volumes. One separate volume contains hymns or praises of 
several deities or saints. And one volume is the Index of the 
whole." {Asiatic Researches, XXI, 653.) Only a few of 
the richer monasteries of Tihet possess these zylographs : 
beyond Tihet they were unknown. The works were first 
printed in 1731, from blocks which are still in use in a monas- 
tery near TestrUhua-po. Mr. Hodgson obtained two sets, the 
second set, now in the India Office, from the Grand Lama of 
Thibet. The first set is now preserved in the Library of the 
Asiatic Society of Bengal. 

The second contribution refers to Sanskrit-Buddhist 
works, of which Mr. Hodgson discovered a great number in 
Nepal. The existence of these was before his time per- 
fectly unknown, and his discovery has entirely revolutionized 
the history of Buddhism as it was known to Europeans in 
the early part of this century. The total number of works 
discovered is not known, but it is believed that the works 
when carefully arranged and indexed will amount to about 
two hundred. Copies of these works to the total number of 381 
bundles have been distributed so as to render them accessible 
to European scholars. Of these eighty-five bundles com- 
prising 144 separate works were presented to the Asiatic 
Society of Bengal; 85 to the Royal Asiatic Society of 
London ; 30 to the India Office Library ; 7 to the Bodleian 
Library, Oxford ; 174 to the Societe Asiatique, and M. 
Burnouf . The last two collections have since been deposited 
in the Bibliotheque Nationale of Erance. 

The character of these works was first noticed by 
Mr. Hodgson in his Essays. He was thus not only the dis- 
coverer of these most ancient and authentic records, but also 
the first intelligent exponent of their nature and value, both 
in their ritualistic and in their philosophical aspect, and 



XXV 



very appropriately did Burnouf address him, in the dedica- 
tion of his Saddharma-pundarika, " comme fondateur de la 
veritable etude de Buddhisme." Elsewhere he added, " Qiiand 
aux dogmas generaux de Buddhisme il n'y a rien dans 
le Saddharma-pundarika que ne se trouve dans vos excellents 
m.emoires. Vous avez trac6 d'une maniere complete et har- 
die le plan de 1' edifice de Buddhisme." It should be added, 
however, that the plan adopted by Mr. Hodgson was to 
give the result of his researches, and not to describe at 
length the contents of the works found by him, and his 
notices, therefore, served more to excite than to allay 
curiosity in regard to those texts. 

M. Burnouf, working on the codices that were sent to 
Prance, produced, in 1844!, his 'Introduction a I'Histoire du 
Buddhisme indien.' None can speak too highly of the 
industry, the ability, and the critical acumen displayed in this 
learned essay ; but in it the nature of the materials was subor- 
dinated to the historical facts deducible from them, and 
the MSS. therefore remained comparatively unknown. His 
next venture was a translation of one of the works, the 
Saddharma-pundarika — " le Lotus de la bonne Loi," — and it 
affords an excellent specimen of the nature, character, style, 
and subject of the Nepalese collection. 

The MSS. presented to the Royal Asiatic Society of 
Great Britain have the benefit of a nominal catalogue pre- 
pared by Professors Cowell and Eggling, but no analysis 
of any of them has yet been published. Mr. Bendall has, I 
hear, in hand an edition of the Vinaya-Sutra, and M. E. 
Senart promises a recension of the Mahdvastu Avaddna, 
taken probably from the Paris collection. 

Of the Calcutta collection one work, the Lalita-Vistara, 
■was published by me several years ago, and brief notices 
were added of seven others in its Introduction ; but the 
rest, until lately, had never been touched. Even the list 



preserved of it was corrupt, sometimes describing the same 
work under two or three names as different works, at others 
giving one name for four or five or more works. These 
mistakes arose chiefly from the fact of two or more different 
works having been written continuously in a single volume 
without any break in the pagination, and in cursory exami- 
nation, only the first and the last page of each codex having 
been read to make out the name of the volume. 

In order to bring to a focus all the information avail- 
able regarding the MSS. brought away from Nepal by Mr, 
Hodgson, Dr. W. W. Hunter published, last year, a cata- 
logue, giving the names of all the works comprised in the 
several collections ; but the list given in it of the Calcutta 
collection, compiled by me from the records of the Asiatic 
Society's office, is, I am sorry to observe, for the reasons 
aforesaid, not correct. "Whether similar errors, owing to 
similar causes, exist in the European lists or not, I cannot 
make out ; but on the whole the Catalogue is a useful compila- 
tion, and the thanks of oriental scholars are due to its learned 
author for the service he has done them by its publication. 

When the MSS. were discovered, opinion was divided as 
to their age and authenticity. While men like Burnouf, 
Prinsep, Wilson and others accepted them to represent the 
oldest records of Buddhism, those who had directed their 
attention to the Pali texts of Southern Buddhism thought 
otherwise; and the discovery and decipherment of the 
As'oka edicts strengthened their position a great deal. It 
was urged that since the Pali of the edicts was the oldest 
type of that language, and it was unquestionably the ver- 
nacular of India within 250 years of Buddha's ministry, 
and since it was equally unquestionable that Buddha sought 
proselytes among the unlettered classes of society, he must 
have addressed them in the vernacular dialect of the time, 
and the most authentic and ancient record of his religion 



XXVll 



necessarily must be found in the Pali language. This, how- 
ever, is a non sequitor. Admitting, for the sake of argument 
and not as facts, that the premises are correct, it does not follow 
that the religion of S'akya Sidha must exist in the Pali lan- 
guage. The language used in preaching to the masses is not 
the language that is ordinarily used, nor is it fit, for the develop- 
ment of abstruse philosophical ideas ; and the southern Pali 
texts do not pretend that they are verbatim reports of S'akya's 
preachings. It would be absurd to suppose that in the 6th 
century before Christ there was any organisation for 
verbatim reports, and that such organisation was brought 
into operation to take down the sermons and lectures of 
an itinerant hermit addressed to the lower orders of the 
people. It must follow that the teachings of the saint 
were recorded by his followers, long after date, when the 
effect of those teachings had been thoroughly established, 
and there was a desire created to know what he had taught ; 
and that the records contained the substance of the teachings 
as remembered by those who reduced them to writing. 
In such a case it is by no means necessary that even the 
language should be the same which was used at the time of 
preaching. To quote the opinion of Mr. Hodgson {JEssays, 
p. 121) — " The preaching and the spreading of the religion 
is a very different thing from the elaboration of those 
speculative principles from which the religion was deduced. 
In the one case, the appeal would be to the many ; in the 
other to the few. And whilst I am satisfied that the 
Buddhists as practical reformers addressed themselves to 
the people, and as propagandists used the vulgar tongue, 
I think those philosophical dogmata which formed the basis 
of the popular creed, were enounced, defended, and sys- 
tematised in Sanskrit. I never alleged that the Buddhists 
had eschewed the Prakrits, I only denied the allegation 
that they had eschewed the Sanskrit ; and I endeavoured 



XXVlll 



at the same time, to reconcile their use of both, by drawing 
a distinction between the means employed by their philo- 
sophers to establish the principles of their religion, and the 
means employed by their missionaries to propagate the 
religion itself." History fully supports the validity of this 
position ; but not to travel out of India I may appeal 
to a parallel case of recent date and unquestionable 
authenticity — that of Chaitanya of the 15th century — to 
prove the fact. The lectures of that saint were delivered 
in three languages : Bengali in Bengal, Uriah in Orissa, and 
Hindi in the North Western Provinces, but they have been 
all reduced to Bengali in the CJiaitanya-charitdmrita, while 
his philosophical doctrines occur in Sanskrit. So strong was 
the influence of Sanskrit in this case that the followers of the 
saint have thought fit even to annex to the Bengali text a 
Sanskrit commentary. In the 6th century before Christ, this 
influence of the Br4hmanic language must have been infinitely 
more powerful, and it is difficult to suppose that its use 
was then avoided even in philosophical disquisitions. Were 
it otherwise, still the fact is patent that the Buddhists them- 
selves, both Northern and Southern, admit in the most un- 
qualified terms that their scriptures, including the teachings 
of the founder, were compiled, not during the lifetime of the 
teacher, but at three convocations held from time to tim.e 
during 250 years after his death. This admission is a settler. 
To contradict it would be to attach to a priori arguments an 
importance which logically they cannot claim. 

Nor are the premises on which the theory is based 
at all tenable. The Pali of the Edicts- was, doubtless, the 
language of record and the Court language of As'oka; it 
was probably also, with more or less local variations, the 
vernacular of the Indo- Aryan races ; but it is far from being 
a proved fact, that it was the common vernacular of all the 
different races, Aryan and non- Aryan, who peopled India 



XXIX 



in former times. Nay, the presumption is strong that the 
case was quite the contrary. Unity of language implies or 
presupposes not only unity of race, unity of religion, and 
unity of political condition, but also unity of climatic 
influences. Sounds are the outcome of the vocal organs ; 
but those organs, though formed on the same model and 
structurally are identically the same, are not in the same state 
of development and tension under all circumstances. The 
gutturals of northern climes, which we have to " hiss, spit and 
sputter all," cannot be naturalised in the tropics. The 
guttural K of the Persians is entirely lost by their descen- 
dants in India, even in the second generation. The early 
Indo- Aryans had the same K, as we find in the Pratis'akhyas, 
but it has long since been lost. The Bengali organs of 
speech in the Gangetic delta cannot control the sounds 
which are natural to the people of Central and North 
"West India. Hence it is that among the descendants of the 
Aryan immigrants one single language, the original Sanskrit, 
got converted into the different vernaculars that are now 
current. The process of change was even more powerfully 
in operation at the time of As'oka, when social intercourse 
among the different tribes was more limited than it is now. 
Then, at that time, the non- Aryan races were more powerful 
and better organized than now, and they spoke in very 
different dialects. And under the circumstances it was 
impossible for the Pah to have been the common vernacular 
of all at the time of As'oka. It might have been the lingua 
franca, but certainly not the vernacular or the household 
language of all classes. 

Three hundred years before the time of As'oka the case 
was even stronger. Society was much more divided, the 
different tribes were more isolated, and the influences 
which regulate the decay and regeneration of languages 
much more actively in operation ; and it was impossible for 



XXX 

S'akya Budclha to make himself intelligible to his mixed 
Aryan and non- Aryan audiences in one common language. 
He must have adapted his language to the capacity of his 
hearers, and if we had verbatim rej)orts of his lectures, they 
would have shown that he did not speak in the same dialect 
at Magadha and at Sravasti. There is then the evidence of 
the GathA, which has been so largely quoted in Buddhist 
works to prove the authenticity of the Sanskrit narratives, to 
show that the popular language of the Aryans at the time of 
As'oka's death and for some time before it, was the G-athA and 
not the Pali. {Gf. Introduction to my edition of the Lalita- 
Vistara.) And this suggests the question — was it the Gatha, 
or some now unknown archaic form of Pali, or the Gathd, 
in varying forms to suit local circumstances, that S'akya 
used in his preachings ? There is nothing reliable to answer 
this question ; but whatever it was, it was not pure Sanskrit, 
nor was it the same everywhere. A preacher anxious to win 
the heart of his hearers and secure proselytes could not 
adopt any language but that which would appeal directly 
and tellingly upon the hearers. The Sanskrit could not do 
so in the time of S'dkya Siaha, ergo the language of S'akya 
was not Sanskrit, but one or more vernaculars, and the same 
must have been the case with his successors. Anyhow with 
the unquestionable and living proof of the Gdtha, we cannot 
unhesitatingly accept the Pali. 

Professor Lassen, following Turnour and the Oeylonese 
accounts, is of opinion that Mahendra arrived in Ceylon 
in 245 B. 0., and he or his successors taught the religion 
of S'Akya orally, without any text, for one hundred and 
fifty years, until between 102 and 75 B. C. the Pita- 
kataya was committed to wi'iting in Pali and its com- 
mentaries in Cingalese {Mahavanso, Ch. 33), and five 
hundred years after that Buddha Ghosa translated the 
latter into Pali. (Idem, Ch. 37.) Dr. John Muir does 



XXXI 



not subscribe to this opinion. He says, " It is also 
difficult to concur in Lassen's opinion as to the period 
at which the Pali or Magadhi was introduced into Ceylon. 
Mahendra and his followers, who were no doubt numerous, 
must necessarily have carried with them the language of 
their native country ; and not only so, but they may have 
been the bearers of numerous works written in that language. 
For it is not easy to receive literally the account given by 
the Ceylonese writers of the time, at which their religious 
works were first committed to writing, or to suppose that 
the foreign propagators of Buddhism, who would at first be 
ignorant of Cingalese, should, at the period of their arrival, 
have had no records in their own language of the new religion 
which they were introducing, or that these records should 
not have been safely handed down to their successors." 
While fully subscribing to Dr. Muir's argument, I cannot 
help thinking that the expressions, " the language of their 
native country" and " records in their own language," are 
calculated to mislead. The language of the records must 
have been that in which they were preserved in their native 
country, and not necessarily their native vernacular. In case 
of the Jesuit Missionaries in Southern India, the language of 
the Bible they introduced was not the vernacular of their 
native country ; and what was true of the Missionaries was 
equally so of the Buddhist propagandists. At the time of 
Mahendra (245 B. C.) two, if not three, convocations of the 
Buddhist clergy had already been held and their scriptures 
finally settled, and the books carried must have been what 
were so settled at the convocations, and these were certainly 
not written in Pali or Magadhi ; for the PAli of the Pitaka- 
taya is not the Pdli of As 'oka's edicts, and the Magadhi, as 
we know it, could not have been in existence when the Pali 
was current, for it is unquestionably a later evolution of the 
Sanskrit than the Pdli. To say the Mdgadhi of the original 



xxxu 



texts must have been different from the dramatic Maga- 
dhi, is to give up the contention altogther, for we then come 
to something unknown and non-existent. It follows conse- 
quently, that the premises with which the advocates of the 
Pali theory start must fall to the ground, and with them the 
conclusion about the claim of the Pali to be the language of 
the original texts. 

The discovery of the Chinese translations of original 
Buddhist records has placed in the hands of scholars a new 
mass of evidence which goes a great way to solve this vexed 
question. These records are avowed to be translations, not 
from Tibetan or Pali texts, but from the Fan, the language 
of the Brahmans, i. e., the Sanskrit. Some of these trans- 
lations date from the 1st century of the Christian era, 
and most of them were prepared between the 3rd and the 9th 
centuries. These facts incontestably prove the existence of 
some Sanskrit originals at a time long anterior to the date of 
the Pali translations of Ceylon. 

The question then arises, are the MSS. discovered by 
Mr. Hodgson the representatives of those originals ? That 
some of them are not so, and of comparatively recent date, is 
fully admitted ; but there are others whose claims to authen- 
ticity and antiquity cannot be questioned. Their names are 
given in the Chinese versions, and that circumstance alone is 
sufficient to vindicate the justice of their claim. It is to be 
regretted that the public has not before it translations of 
all these Chinese versions to compare with Mr. Hodgson's 
Sanskrit texts, but from what little it has, ample evidence 
is found in favour of the Nepalese texts. The Ceylonese, the 
Burmese and the Siamese versions of the life of S'akya as 
preserved in Pali are deeply tinctured with local colouring. 
They give us pictures of the places where they were 
produced, and not of India, and the languages in which they 
are preserved are of a much later date than even the monu- 



XXXUl 



mental PAli of As'oka,* whereas tlie diinese version, as seen 
in Mr. Beal's ' E,omantic Legend of Sdkya Buddha,' is 
purely Indian, perfectly devoid of local colouring, and it 
is impossible to believe that it had been taken from any Pdli 
original. 

Mr. Beal's work is a mutilated version of the original 
Chinese, many descriptive portions being omitted ; but such 
as it is, it " is a translation of the Chinese version of the 
^ Abhinishkramana Sutra' done into that language by 
Djnanakuta, a Buddhist priest from North India, who 
resided in China during the Tsui dynasty, i. e., about the end 
of the sixth century A. D. It would seem from a consi- 
deration of the title of the seventeenth chapter, ' Leaving 
the palace for religious life,' that originally the story of the 
' Abhinishkramana' was simply that of Buddha's flight from 
his palace to become an ascetic. Afterwards, the same 
title was applied to the complete legend (as in the present 
work), which includes his previous and subsequent history. 
A very valuable date, later than which we cannot place the 
origin of the story, may be derived from the colophon at the 
end of the last chapter of the book. It is there stated that 
the ' Abhinishkramana Siitra' is called by the school of 
Dharmaguptas Fo-pen-hing-king ; by the Sarvdstivddas it 
is called Ta-chwang-yen (great magnificence, *. e., ' Lalita- 
Vistara') ; by the Mahasanghikas it is called Ta-sse, i. e., 
Mah^vastu." (Beal's Introduction, p. v.) This description 
shows that it is made up of three distinct Sanskrit works, 
the Abhiniskra/tnana Sutra, the JLalita- Vistara, and the 
Mahdvastu, — all relating to the Hfe of Buddha, and it is 
hopeless to expect that it should closely represent any one of 

* Westergaard and Kuhn take the Ceylonese Pali to be the language of 
Ujjaini, a local Prakrit, and Oldenberg places its original home in Southern 
India (Andhara and Kalinga) ; neither place connected with the original nidus 
of Buddhism. 



XXXIV 

the tliree originals. It is observable, too, tbat Asiatic 
translators have never observed the rigid scrupulousness of 
the modern European rules about faithful translation, where 
the ipsissima verba of the original is carefully preserved, and 
even the turn of the style, language and idiom is attempted 
to be reproduced. Ordinarily a general concordance in 
feature is all that Asiatics think necessary, and much lati- 
tude is allowed in ornamentation. It is, nevertheless, not 
difficult to show which parts of the Chinese version have been 
taken from which work, for the correspondence in language 
even in the purely descriptive portions, which refer not to the 
speeches of the principal actors, is as close as can reasonably 
be expected, if we bear in mind the peculiarities of the 
Sanskrit and the Chinese idioms. To give an instance : 
chapter. VII of the Chinese version (page 35), giving an 
account of the descent of the Bodhisattva, opens with the 
following : 

"At this time Prabhapala Bodhisattva, the "Winter being now passed, 
and the opening month of Spring arrived, when all the flowers and the trees 
put out their scents, the vernal air, soft and serene, neither too cold nor hot, 
the young grass and other verdure freshly come forth, brightly shining on 
every side, at the time of the junction of the constellation Kwei (with 
the sun)" &c. 

This subject is treated of in the 6th chapter of the 
Lalita-Vistara, and in my translation (p. 94) it commences 
with the words : 

" Thus, Bhikshus, the Winter having passed away, in the fullness of the 
Spring season, in the month of Vaisakha, when the sun was in the constella- 
tion Vi^akhd, the trees were covered with leaves, and loaded with exquisite 
flowers and blossoms. The earth was covered with a carpet of green. The 
evils of great heat or cold were then absent, and everywhere there was calm 
and quietness. At such a time the Bodhisattva &c. &c." 

It is obvious that the translators have arranged their 
words and sentences with a keen eye to the English idiom, 
and the Chinese translation has judiciously omitted the name 



XXXV 

of the Hindu month, which would have been useless and 
puzzling to Chinese readers, the name of the constella- 
tion being quite sufficient for them. These divergences 
apart, it is undeniable that this portion of the Chinese 
version is a counterpart of the Sanskrit Lalita-Vistara as 
we have in Mr. Hodgson's collection. Other instances of 
such close correspondence in language may be multiplied 
ad libitum, and the portions taken from the Mahdvastu also 
affords similar correspondence ; but we look in vain for such 
coincidences in the Southern versions. There even the 
speeches of the saint and his divine mother, which from 
their sanctity should have been most faithfully preserved, 
appear to be quite distorted. The details, too, of the 
narrative have been very materially altered, so as to show 
that we have in them an imperfect outline of the story 
and its substance. To give an instance. The Lalita-Vistara 
gives the dream of Maya in these words : 

" A noble elephant, white as silver or snow, having six tusks, well- 
proportioned trunk and i'eet, blood-red veins, adamantine firmness of joints, 
and easy pace, has entered my belly." (p, 94}. 

The Tibetan version has : — 

" Un elephant blanc comme la neige et I'argent, a six defenses, aux pieds, 
a la trompe superbes, a la tete rouge, k la d-marche agreable, aux membres 
forts comme le diamant, le plus beau des ^l^phants entrait en elle, et jamais 
elle n'avait vu, ni entendu (dire) qu'on eprouvat un pareil bien-etre." 
(Foucaux, p. 61). 

The Chinese text has — ^ 

" Bodhisatwa having then descended into the womb of Maya the Queen, 
she in the midst of her sleep had a dream to this effect, ' she thought she saw 
a six-tusked white elephant, his head coloured like a ruby (or red pearl) &o. 
descend thro' space and enter her right side.' " (Beal, p. 37.) 

All these three Northern versions it wiU be seen, are 
closely similar, and unquestionably produced from one 
source. But we fail to perceive anything like this simili- 
tude in the Southern narratives. The Burmese version of 
Bishop Bigandet (p. 29,) says : 



XXXVl 

" Opposite this mount and facing the cave where Maia sat surrounded 
by her attendants, rose another mount, where Phralaong, under the shape of a 
young white elephant, was roaming over its sides in various directions. 
He was soon seen coming down that hill, and ascending the one where the 
princess lay on her bed, directed his course towards the cave. On the 
extremity of his trunk, lifted up like a beautiful string of flowers, he carried 
a white lily. His voice, occasionally resounding through the air, could be 
heard distinctly by the inmates of the grotto, and indicated his approach. 
He soon entered the cave, turned three times round the couch whereupon 
sat the princess, then, standing for a while, he came nearer, opened her 
right side, and appeared to conceal himself in her womb." 

The Siamese version follows this account pretty closely, 
but not quite faithfully. It says — 

" Then they led her to a golden palace, standing on a silver mountain, 
and prayed her to rest on a couch with her face turned to the west. Then 
she saw a golden mountain, whereon the Royal Being that should be Buddha 
marched in the form of a white elephant. The most admirable of white 
elephants, leaving the mountain of gold, came to the foot of the mountain 
of silver, and passed round to its northern side. In his beautiful trunk 
he held a newly expanded white lotus flower. He ascended the mountain, 
and having trumpeted loudly, entered the golden palace. Thrice he marched 
around the couch, and at the end of the third circuit, he appeared to enter 
her right side, and pass into her womb." (Alabaster's Wheel of the Law, p. 98). 

None, I venture to think, will be disposed to accept 
these Pali versions to be the archetypes of the Chinese 
text, or to doubt for a moment that the Sanskrit original 
as we have it in Mr. Hodgson's collection supplied the 
model for it. If so, the fact being admitted that the 
first Chinese version of the Lalita-Vistara was prepared 
in the first century of the Christian era, the inference 
is unavoidable that the Sanskrit original had existed for 
at least two to three centuries before that time to have ac- 
quired the necessary antiquity and religious authority to 
be fit for acceptance as the scriptures of the Buddhists, and 
worthy of translation by the people of China. This brings 
us to the Convocation held under the auspices of As'oka ; but 
for the reasons assigned in the Introduction to my edition of 



xxxvu 

the Lalita-Vistara, it is impossible to believe tbat that work 
was prodaced on that occasion {of. pp. 66-7), and we must go 
back to the synod of KdMs'oka. Now, the Lalita-Vistara as 
we have it at present is a compound of two different works — a 
prose version in pure Sanskrit, which substantiates its state- 
ments by quotations from a metrical and simpler version in 
the Grdthd dialect. I pointed out this fact twenty-seven years 
ago (Journal, As. Soc. for 1856), and it has since been general- 
ly accepted. At the last Oriental Congress, held at St. Peters- 
burg, it was announced as a new fact, but in no way contro- 
verted. The interval between the synod of Kalas'oka and the 
Nirvana cannot be extended to much more than a hundred 
to a hundred and forty years. If we admit the originality 
of the Pali we have to believe that within that period, the 
original life of the saint in PdH was first rendered into 
Gatha and then into Sanskrit, and that the most ancient and 
authentic Pdli having been lost, the author of the Sanskrit 
text was obliged to quote the Gatha for his authority. This 
would be absurd, and the Pali theory must, therefore, be 
abandoned. 

It is to be regretted that evidence is wanting to prove 
in the above way the authenticity of the other works of the 
collection under notice ; but the evidence available in favour 
of the assumption that the more revered portions of the scrip- 
tures were compiled at the same, or about the same, time at 
which the Lalita-Vistara was got up is by no means stinted. 
It would be unreasonable and opposed to every law of in- 
ference to suppose that the Lalita-Vistara was the only work 
got up at the time ; and if any faith is to be placed in the 
accounts of the convocations, held avowedly to preserve the 
scriptures from corruption and interpolation, and to settle 
disputed points of doctrine and of disci2)line, the conclusion 
is forced on us that several works, besides the Lalita-Vistara, 
were compiled on those occasions. And as a number of Mr. 



XXXVlll 

Hodgson's texts are written in the same style as that of 
the Lahta-Vistara, and quote the Gathas in support of their 
statements, it would he perfectly reasonable to accept them 
to be of the same age. Moreorer, as the Gathi was not 
adequate for the precision necessary for abstruse philoso- 
phical discussions, and no language existed in India in former 
times which was so well fitted for the definition of various 
shades of philosophical thought as the Sanskrit, it would be 
by no means unreasonable to suppose that Sanskrit alone, 
without the Gatha, was used for philosophical works, and as 
the philosophy of Buddhism form the corner-stone of the 
doctrine of Buddha, some works on the subject must have 
existed from the earliest date. At any rate, the Pdli originals 
of the present Sanskrit works must first be found before the 
argument above set forth can be fairly traversed. This argu- 
ment is the same which Pali scholars used before the dis- 
covery of the Sanskrit texts, and it is perfectly legitimate. 

There was a time when it was urged that the rational 
character of the Pali narrative was of itself proof sufiicient 
for their antiquity and originality, and James Prinsep went 
the length of admitting that " if the rationality of a story 
be a fair test of its genuineness, which few will deny, the 
Pali record will here bear away the palm." The publica- 
tion of some of the original Pali texts has since completely 
set this argument at rest. The quotations given above leave 
us little room for choice on the score of rationality. They 
are alike legendary, and full of romantic fables. "Were they 
otherwise, still the question at issue would not be influenced 
one way or other by it. Plausibility is no proof in law, nor 
can it be in history. If we admit the reverse of the position, 
we have to accept all the society novels and stories of 
the day as history. The argument is that the Chinese texts 
were taken from Sanskrit originals, and that those originals 
are now before us in the MSS. discovered by Mr. Hodgson ; 



XXXIX 

and tMs is borne out by their close correspondence in name, 
language and matter. If this be admitted, as it must be, 
tbe high value of the discovery cannot be gainsaid. 

This question, however, of the antiquity of the MSS. 
apart, the services rendered by Mr. Hodgson to the cause of 
literature and science generally have called forth the warmest 
acknowledgments from all who are able to appreciate them. 
The quotations given above, express the opinion of some of 
the ablest critics on the subject, and associated bodies have 
not been slow in bearing their testimony to their value. 
The Asiatic Society of Bengal, whose transactions have been 
so greatly enriched by the contributions of Mr. Hodgson, 
presented him, on the occasion of his retirement from India, 
an address, elected him an Honorary member, and voted 
a marble bust which now adorns its meeting-room. The 
Royal Society of London, the highest scientific association 
on the face of the earth, elected him a Fellow ; and another 
body no less distinguished and more exclusive, the French 
Academy, elected him a Foreign Member. The dignity of 
the Knighthood of the Legion of Honor, was bestowed on 
him by the French Grovernment. He has now retired from 
the field of active labour, carrying with him the respect and 
esteem of all cultivators of science, and the warmest wishes 
of his friends and admirers for his long Hfe and prosperity 
in his happy home in Gloucestershire. 

To turn now to the immediate object of this Preface. 
The total number of MSS. presented by Mr. Hodgson to the 
Asiatic Society of Bengal was 86 bundles, including 170 
separate works on various subjects. They vary in extent 
from a few slokas to a hundred and twenty thousand stanzas. 
The great bulk of the works refers to the history, philosophy, 
morality, and rituals of the religion of Buddha; a few 
are devoted to miscellaneous subjects. To classify them 
according to the scheme of the Nepalese Buddhists as de- 



xl 

scribed by Mr. Hodgson in bis essays, (pp. 11 f.), I find, is 
impracticable. The codices do not in their colophons always 
give the names of the classes to which they belong, and the 
definitions of the classes as supplied to Mr. Hodgson by his 
informants are obviously arbitrary, and do not suffice to help 
me. An old classified catalogue would have been of much 
use ; but such a record does not exist. Taking no note of a 
primer on grammar,* another on versification,! a collection 
of moral maxims, | obviously Hindu, a commentary an a Jain 
astronomical work,§ a treatise on precious stones, || and a 
few rituals, the whole of the works are narrative, in each 
case the author relating what he had heard himself or from 
some one of what Buddha said on particular occasions about 
particular subjects, and in so far the form of the works 
supply no clue to their classification. The subjects, too, are 
not unoften so varied in each work that they afford no help. 
The threefold division of the Southern Buddhists — the Sdtra, 
the Vinaya, and the Abhidharma — is nowhere prominently 
marked in the Nepalese texts. Judging by the nature of the 
works, the Siitras may be said to be represented by the 
*'nine dharmas" of the Nepalese. Some of them are called 
Mahayana, others Mahavaipulya, but none Siitra only. 
M. Burnouf takes the simple Sutras to be the most ancient, 
but on insufficient grounds, for he had only one work of 
the kind before him, and it was by no means a satisfactory 
one. I have none to refer to. 

The Vinaya by name is represented by a single com- 
mentary on a work which is not included in the collection 
before me, and, to judge from the character of the commen- 

* Prayoga-mukba. 
f Chhandomrita-lata. 
J Chanakya-^arasangraha. 
§ Surya-prajnapti-^ika. 
II Mani-pai'iksbd. 



xli 

tary, I have in it a treatise on philosophy, and not on moral 
discipline as the class is said to include. M. Burnouf 
noticed this absence in the collection which he examined. 
He says, (p. 33,) " la collection de M. Hodgson n'ofEre 
pas d'ouvrages qui se placent dans la classe du Vinaya, 
comme elle en possdde qui appartiennent a celle des Sutras. 
Dans les deux listes que j'ai citees plus haut, le nom de 
Vinaya ne se pr^sente qu'une seule fois, et encore n'est-il 
pas employe avec ce caract^re de generalite qu'il a dans 
I'expression de Vinaya pitaka ' le Recueil de la discipline.' 
II figure seulement sur le titre d'un traite philosophique, le 
Vinaya sutra, dont j'ai indique I'existence tout a I'heure, 
et duquel il me suffit de dire en ce moment qu'il n'est pas 
attribu^ a Qakyamuni." It is obvious, however, that the 
moral stories which figure so prominently in the collection 
under the name of Avadana, are the representatives of 
Vinaya works. The stories are intended to illustrate the 
deserts of virtue and vice, and pro tanto they are lessons on 
morality. In Ceylon there is a large class of works under 
the name of Jatakas. These narrate the prominent incidents 
in the former Kves of S'akya Buddha. Many stories in 
the Nepalese collection also bear the same common name, 
but they occur in compilations which have the generic title 
of Avadanas. In fact, the Avad&na of the Nepalese is the 
class of which the Jdtaka is an order. The former treats 
of the anterior lives of S'akya Buddha as well as of other 
persons, whereas the latter is confined to S'akya only. 

The Abhidharma of the Ceylonese includes philoso- 
phical works ; and the Prajnaparamitas and their commen- 
taries take its place in the Nepalese collection. 

Apart from the above, there is a large number of works 
in the Nepalese collection which bear the name of Dharani. 
They begin in the usual style of Sutra works, with the set 
form, " thus has it been heard by me, that when Bhagavan 



xlii 

sojourned in such a place," &c., &c., and, like the Sutras, 
bear no author's name, and in this respect they may be 
called simple Sutras, but they supply, each one or more, 
charms to be worn as amulets, and must be of a much later 
date than that of S'akya Buddha and his earlier disciples. 
The atheistic and the later theistic Bauddhas could not 
have invoked the name, as the Dharanis do, of Tara, or 
Vajrasattva, or Avalokites'vara to preserve them from snake- 
bites, malarial fevers, and demons. They are obviously 
imitations of the Hindu Kavachas from the Tantras, of 
which a great many were translated into Tibetan between 
the 7th and 13th centuries of the Christian era. 

Believing in the authenticity and great historical value 
of the MSS. presented to the Asiatic Society by Mr. Hodgson, 
Mr. Arthur Grote, when President of the Asiatic Society 
of Bengal, often urged me to examine them and prepare an 
analysis of their contents ; but the magnitude of the task 
deterred me. The total number of MSS. was 86 bundles 
representing, according to the Indian mode of reckoning, 
nearly a million and a half of verses, written in the, to me, 
very unfamilar Newari character, bristling with errors, full 
of uncouth and unknown technical terms, and abounding in 
quotations in a dialect which was but imperfectly intelligiljle 
to me. To master them thoroughly was the task of a life- 
time, and, having regard to my official and other pressing 
works, I could not take it up. Mr. Grote, however, did not 
like to see his project dropped altogether, and, after his 
retirement from India, suggested the plan of dividing the 
task among two or more persons, and the Council of the 
Asiatic Society having accepted it, and agreed to defray 
the cost of preparing and printing an analysis. Pandit 
Harinath Vidyaratna was employed to read the texts and 
prepare, under my direction and supervision, abstracts of 
their content^ in Sanskrit. The Pandit read about two- 



xliii 

thirds of tlie total number of the texts. Pandit Rama- 
nath Tarkaratna read the large Prajndpdramild, and Pandit 
Kamakhyanath Tarkayagis'a three of the smaller works. 
The rest fell to my lot. I had also frequently to compare 
the Pandits' abstracts with the originals, and this involved 
the necessity of a great deal of very hard and tedious 
reading. It was originally intended that I should trans- 
late all the abstracts into English, but during a protracted 
attack of illness, I felt the want of help, and a friend 
of mine, Babu Haraprasdd S'astrf, M. A., offered me his 
co-operation, and translated the abstracts of 16 of the larger 
works. His initials have been attached to the names of 
those works in the table of contents. I feel deeply obliged 
to him for the timely aid he rendered me, and tender 
him my cordial acknowledgments for it. His thorough 
mastery of the Sanskrit language and knowledge of Euro- 
pean literature fully qualified him for the task ; and he did 
his work to my entire satisfaction. I must add, however, 
that I did not deem it necessary, nor had I the opportunity, 
to compare all his renderings with the originals. In preparing 
the abstracts it was found that my Pandits could not always 
master the true import of the philosophical terminology of the 
Buddhists, nor could they condense with sufficient clearness 
the diffuse disquisitions about obscure dogmas to make them 
fit for presentation to the public. The attempt, therefore, to 
review the dogmas was abandoned, and attention was directed 
mainly to the narratives and the stories about the previous 
births of Buddha, which have been so largely illustrated 
in the ancient sculptures of India. Even in this respect, 
however, some limit had to be put to the length of the 
stories. Some of the stories are very long, extending over 
a hundred to two hundred pages, and all are decked out 
with a good deal of descriptive ornaments and tedious 
details. To reproduce them in their entirety would require 



xliv 

not one, but many, volumes, and I had, therefore, to satisfy 
myself with their bare outlines — their skeletons — omitting all 
flesh and blood which give them their vividness and interest 
for the faithful. But reduced and attenuated as they are 
in the following pages, they will, I believe, prove useful 
in elucidating Buddhist traditions and sculpture, and in 
conveying a fair idea of the nature and contents of the 
newly discovered literature. 

8 Maniktollah, 

July 21, 1882. 



CONTENTS. 



N. B. — The MSS. as now arranged in the Asiatic Society's Library 
bear the Nos. shown here. 







No. 


Page 


1. 


Abhidh anottara, 


... B. 26, 


1 


2. 


Abhidharmakos'a-vyakhya, 


... A. 13, 


3 


3. 


As'oka Avadana, 


... A. 14, 


6 


4. 


Avadana S'ataka^ 


... B. 6, (H. P. S.) 


17 


6. 


Aparimitayur-dharani, ... 


... B. 48, 


41 


6. 


Bhadrakalpa Avadana, 


... B. 40, (H. P. S.) 


42 


7. 


Bodhi-charyavatcira, 


... B. 43, 


47 


8. 


Bodhisattva Avadana, 


.. B. 13, (H. P. S.) 


49 


9. 


Bodhisattvavadana-kalpalata, 


... B. 15, 


57 


10. 


Buddha-charitra, 


... 823, 


78 


11. 


Chhandomritalata, 


... B. 8, 


79 


12. 


Chaitya-pungava, 


... B. 43, 


280 


13. 


Chdnakya-sarasangraha, • 


... B. 56, 


282 


14. 


Dharani-mantra-sangraha, 


... B. 5, 


80 


15. 


Dharanis, 


... B. 5, andB. 65, 


291 


16. 


Dhvajagrakeyuri Dharani, 


... B. 51, 


283 


17. 


Das'abhumis'vara, 


... B. 45, (H. P. S.) 


81 


18. 


Divyavadana-maldj 


... A 8, 


304 


19. 


D urgati-paris'odhana, 


... B. 30, 


84 


20. 


Dvavins'a Avadana, 


... B. 41, (H, P. S.) 


85 


21. 


Ganapati-hridaya, 


... B. 51, 


89 


22. 


Ganda-vyuha, 


... A. 9, (H. P. S) 


90 


23. 


Gitapustaka, 


... 


284 


24. 


Grahamatrika Dharani, 


... B. 49, 


93 


25. 


Gunakarnda-vyuha, 


... B. 27, (H. P. S.) 


95 


26. 


Kalyana-panchavins'atika, 


... B. 36, 


99 


27. 


KalpaJiama i^vadana, ... 


... B. 55, 


292 



xlvi 







No. 


Z8. 


Kapis'a Avadana, ... 


B. 25, 


29. 


Kavanda-vyuhaj 


A. 19, 


30. 


Kathina Avadana, 


B. 62, 


31. 


Kavikumara-katlia, 


B. 47, 


32. 


Karun^ pundarika, 


A. 16, 


33. 


Kviyasangralia-panjika, ... No. B. 10, 


B. 23, 


34. 


Kus'a Jataka, 


B. 32, 


35. 


Lokes'vara S'ataka, 


B. 46, 


36. 


Lalita-Vistara, 


B. 14, 


37. 


Lankavatai-a, 


B. 12, 


88. 


Madliyamaka-vritti, 


B. 2, 


39. 


Mahavastu Avadana, 


A. 11, 


40. 


Maha-sitavati, 


B. 4, 


41. 


Maha-i-aksha-mantranusarini, 


B. 4, 


42. 


Maba-sahasra-pramardiui, 


B. 4, 


43. 


Mali a - pratisara - k alpa, 


B. 4, 


44. 


Mahakala Tantra, 


B. 52, 


45. 


Mabamayurf, ... 


B. 4, 


46. 


Manicliuda Avadana, 


B. 28, 


47. 


Marichi-nama dharani, ... 


B. 49, 


48. 


Paramartha-nama-sangiti, 


B. 59, 


49. 


Parnas'avarinama dhariini, 


B. 49, 


50. 


Prajna-paramita, S'atasaliasvika, Nos, A. 1 to A 


51. 


Prajna-paramita, Ashtasaliasiika, 


A. 15, 


52, 


Prajna-paramita, Pancbavifii'ati- 






sahasrika. 


A. 10, 


53. 


Prajna-paramita-tika, 


A. 17, 


54. 


Pmdapatravadana, ... 


B. 53, 


55. 


Pujapaddliati 


A. 12, 


56. 


Prayoga-mukha, 


B. 54, 


57. 


Ratnamala Avadana, 


B. 11, 


58. 


Ratna-pariksha, 


B, 50, 


59. 


S'addharnaa-pnndarika, ... 


B. 7, 


60. 


Samadbiraja, 


B. 3, 


61. 


Saptakuraarika Avadana alias Abo- 






ratravratanus'ansa. 


B. 24, 


62. 


Sardulakarna Avadana, ... 


B. 17, 



(H. P. S.) 



(H. P. S.) 
(H P. S.) 



B. 61, 



(H. P, S.) 



(H. P. S.) 



(H. P. S.) 



Page 
100 
101 
284 
102 
285 
105 
110 
112 
113 
113 
169 
115 
164 
165 
166 
168 
172 
173 
162 
174 
175 
176 
177 
188 

193 
194 
195 
196 
197 
197 
291 
203 
207 

221 
223 



xlvii 



No. 



Page 



63. 

6-1. 

65. 

66. 

67. 

68. 

69. 

70. 

71. 

72. 

73. 

74. 

75. 

76 

77. 

78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 



83. 

84. 
85. 



Sarvatathagatoslmisha-sitatapatra 

alias Pratyangira-kalpa, 
Sragdliara stotra, 
Sragdharatika, 
S'ringabhei'i, 
S'ringabherl vratavadana, 
Sucbandra Avadana, 
Sugata Avadana, 
Sukbavati-vyulia, 
Samagadba Avadana, 
Suprabhata-stava, 
S'uryaprajnapti-tika, 
Suvarnaprabbasa, 
Svayambbu puraija, 
Taraslitottaras'ata-nama-stotra, 
Tatliagata-gubyaka alias Gubya-sama- 

gha, 
Uposhadba Avadana, 
Usbnishavijaya Dharaai, 
Vajras'uebi, 
Vajravidaraya-nama-dharani-liridayopa- 

hridaya, 
Vasundh ara- vratotpattya vada na, 
Vasundbarasbtottra-s ataiiama, 
Viraknsa Avadana, 
Vratavadauamala, 



B. 46, 




227 


B. 63, 




228 


B. 64, 




229 


B. 88, 




229 


B. 29, 




231 


B. 21, 




232 


B. 31, 




233 


B. 20, 




236 


B. 57, 




237 


B. 39, 




239 


B. 58, 




240 


B. 9, 


(H. P S ) 


241 


B. 19, 


(H. P. S.) 


249 


B. 33, 




259 


B. 22, 




261 


B. 37, 




265 


B. 49, 




267 


B. 34, 




268 


B. 49, 




269 


B 44, 




269 


B. 49, 




274 


B. 16, 




274 


A. 18, 




275 



THE 

SANSKRIT BUDDHIST LITERATURE OF NEPAL. 



No. B. 26. 
ABHIDHANOTTAEA alias AVADA'NA-STOTRA TANTRA. 

^if»?%iT^TTrr I 

Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 12 X 3. Folia 205. Lines on a page, 
6. Extent in s'lokas, 3100. Character, Newari. Date, Nemari Samvat 
805 = A. c. 1685. Appearance, old. Prose and verse. Very incorrect. 

A treatise of the Tantra class, containing mystic mantras and 
directions for the worship of demigods and good and evil spirits of 
various kinds. Anonymous. The scene is laid in the abode of a Guhya- 
ka of the name of Yajrakrodha Dakini, (" the imp of lightning pas- 
sion,") where the great Tath^gata Vajrasattva once sojourned. There 
certain other Tathagatas solicit him to impart to them a knowledge 
of the secret science of destroying the net of the imp of lightning 
passion (Vajrakrodha-ddkim-jdla-samvarabhinottarottara-hridaya, — the 
full name of the work); and the knowledge is imparted in a series 
of sixty- five lectures. After defining the time, the place, and the per- 
sons fit for the worship of various kinds of imps, the spirit of Vajrasatt- 
va is directed to be meditated upon in the essence of certain letters of 
the alphabet, which constitute the vijamantra& la his heart the wor- 
shipper should reflect upon a central point, and over it the syllable yam 
forming a blue atmosphere, thereupon a brilliant red triangular halo 
formed by the syllable ram, thereupon a frost-like watery glow formed 
by the syllable vam, and thereupon a four-cornered yellow-coloured 
terrene globe formed by the syllable lam. He must then meditate on 
the wheel diagram, which he should imagine to consist of eight red- 
1 



coloured spokes placed on the globe aforesaid. The form of the demi- 
goddess is fierce, four-mouthed, twelve-armed, &c., and the vijamantra 
for her is Om hum ah makdsukham. In this way the rituals for the 
performance of the rites and the worship of certain other divinities 
named are given at length. The divinities, imps, and rites are : Samva- 
ravajra, Pithaparva, Vajrasattva, Pithadevat^,, Bheruka, Yogavira, 
Pithamala, Matrikabheda, Adikarmika-yoga, Vajravira, Sadyoga-sam- 
vara, Amrita-sanjivani, (raising the dead), Togini, Kuladaka, Togini- 
yoga-hridaya, Buddha-kdpalika Toga, Yajrasattva, Manjuvajra, Na- 
vaksharalidaka, Vajradaka, Varshayana, Kavachadvaya Chomaka, 
Pdkinl Chomaka, consecration of pictures, daily service for Toginis, 
meditation on the seven-syllabic mantra, Yajra-yoga-sddhana, Gardhava- 
kdra-yoga, the five cries, the fourfold goddess, Vajrabhairava-krodha- 
dhipati yoga, meditation on Vajrakrodha, Janmapas'ubhavand, and At- 
mabhava. The Toginis, whose worship is particularly enjoined, are 
described as women fair as the pith of the lotus stalk, with lotus-like 
pink eyes, fond of white garments, odorous as fresh sandal paste, 
and devoted to the adoration of Sugata and his" successors. There arS 
several kinds of these ; some are called Kulajas, others Brahmis, others 
Budras. The Dakinis are women of a bright red complexion, having 
the aroma of the lotus, benign countenances, red eyes and nails, and 
fondness for decorating their rooms with pictures of lotus flowers. They 
belonging to the race of Padmanetra. In course of the work several 
charms and amulets are given to protect persons from the attacks of 
evil spirits, diseases and other evils. 
Beginning. ■>§> irw •^ft'^t^rerj^^T^ i 

ig^Tsrf^«i\T^r«i ^\mv ^m\ sffl: ii 

^■S^^Tfw«rT#tTi^TTit 1^'^ I 
End. ^niiMT»I«J^RSt ««I^T=gTWT^^T I 



Colophon. T?fif*isn^m^ ^r3r'TRT3jT<?3«i: iwff^rr^i ii 



e\ 



No. A. 13. 
ABHIDHAEMAKOS'A-VYA'KHTA. 

Subtance, Nepalese paper of a yellow colour, 18 X. 6. Folia, 338. Lines 
on a page, 12 to 13. Extent in s'lokas, 19,266. Character, Newari. Date, 
? Prose. Generally correct. 

A series of Aphorisms on the principles of Buddhist philosophy. 
By Vasubandhu. With an elaborate commentary, by Tasomitra Acha- 
rya. The aphorisms are brief and terse, and so constructed as to express 
their meaning by their case-marks, without the aid of verbs, as is the ease 
with the Sutras of Brahmanical writers, and totally unlike the Sutras 
of the Buddhists, which are generally loose, verbose and prolix. The 
commentary also follows the style of the Hindu philosophers, and dis- 
cusses the questions raised, with reference to their philosophical bearings, 
but supplies no vritti or literal meaning. The logical precision of the 
Hindu writers is, however, to some extent wanting, both in the text and 
the commentary : the categories are also different. The work is divided 
into eight chapters, each called a Kos'asthdna or ' receptacle.' The first 
chapter opens with a discussion about dharma or religious duty, which is 
said to be of two kinds,' — one Sds'rava leading to transmigration, and 
the other Ands'rma, or that which effects emancipation from the bond 
of mundane existence. Then follow descriptions of the twelve sentient 
organs which constitute corporeality ; these include the five sensory or- 
gans, eyes, ears, &c., and seven desires, collectively called the adhydtmika 
dhatus. The second treats of organic and mental functions {indriya),. 
■which are reckoned at twenty-two. They comprise vision, audition, 
smelling, taste, touch, living, thinking (manas), feminity, masculinity, 
sensation of pleasure, ditto of pain, ditto of ease, ditto of uneasiness, ditto 
of indifference, ditto of earnestness, ditto of vigour, the sense of memory, 
ditto of meditation, ditto of knowledge, the desire of command over un- 
known persons {andjndtamajndsydmmdriyd) that of command {djnendriya), 
the sense of being commanded, ipjnatendriya) . The third treats of the dif- 



ferent order of beings (Mmadhahi) resulting from our carnal desires, kdma. 
The subject of the fourth chapter is the relation which our actions bear 
to our future life, or the manifestation of the soul in different forms of 
animal life in accordance with actions performed in previous lives. The 
fifth describes the pain and suffering resulting from transmigration. 
The sixth refers to meditation on the attributes of the Deity {I's'mra). 
The seventh treats of knowledge, which is of two kinds, carnal {LauUka) 
and transcendental or that which results from Toga meditation. The 
eighth explains Samddhi or concentration of the mind on the Divinity — 
the only means of salvation open to man. 

The work is of great importance as a repository of the various me- 
taphysical theories of the early Buddhists. It takes up, one after 
another, all the various topics which engaged their attention ; points out 
their character ; notices their authors ; decides upon their merits with 
great tact and learning ; and forms altogether a valuable work of refer- 
ence on the subject. M. Burnouf, in his Introduction a I'Histoire du Biid- 
dhisme Indien (p. 563), has the following appreciative remarks on this 
work : Les observations les plus generales entre celles que m'a sugg^r^es 
I'examen de ce volumineux traits, embrassent trois points principaux. 
Le premier concerne la rMaetion et le systeme du commentateur ; le 
second, les indications qu'il donne sur d'autre ouvrages, independamment 
du sujet qu'il traite ; le troisieme porte sur le sujet lui-meme. En ce 
qui touche la redaction et le systeme du commentateur, il faut recon- 
naitre qu'il appartiant ^ la bonne ecole des glossateurs indiens. Ta- 
comitra possedait certainement toutes les ressources de la langue 
eanskrite, et il en a fait une excellent usage pour explication du 
texte primitif. 8a glose est a la fois grammaticale et philosophique. 
II suit, pour la grammaire, I'ecole de Panini ; et quant au systeme phi- 
losophique, il d^veloppe les opinions expos^es ou seulment indiqu^es, 
dans ceux des livres cannoniques qu'on nomme Sutras. De la vient la 
quality de Sautrantxka ou philosophe de I'ecole des SAtras, qu'il prend dans 
un grand nombre de passages. Sous ce rapport, les indications que 
renferme ce commentaire sent aussi nombreuses que varices, et on y 
rencontre presque 'eichaque page des fragments plus ou moins ^tendus 
de ces trait^s, dont plusieurs se retrouvent dans les volumes que nous 
possedons k Paris. L'examen d'un tell livre met eI mes yeux I'authen- 
ticite des Sutras k I'abri de toute contestation ; et il rend h. la litt^ra- 
ture sacree des Buddhistes un service du mfeme genre que celui que les 



commentaires philosophiques des Brahmanes rendent aux Vedas, qu'ils 

citent a tout instant." 

Beginning, ^'wi^^r WTT^nrfV^^T ^: w'f sj^h^ f^^r^ I 

■^ ^f^flrfm^ f^il'^gfTI^ ^^fflSir^ II 
^HT^fH II ^. R^ II 

^w'jj^T^ I ^^iW^f^fsimtrfr II s'O To H 

n x^^ Ro II 

»i"^T<is!ir9 Tf<T ^■'^=^ ^wsffir II '^i.e qo ii 

g^H(rffl?qTr^ II i^Sit T» 11 

^r^»fl II '3rwTl% ^f'T f^^K:: ii ^^if ^ i» ii 

Twnr T^^K- II ^\^ T" II 
End. ^^^K<!irfr ^^ VTrj^T ^qr^^^'^s^wmgsi^w^i^jjjfflftr fg^" ii 

II 8'S> T' II 

II ^^^ i» 11 

T«)m f? ^T%T wqrami qf^^TOrfaPcffT ii ^'a«> T" ii 
^^mT^re^ftT«iT^T^rsisif<Tg^Tf^tT^Hriwifs«K TfflT II wtycw 
^f^ qfxr^f^^f^^^ I w ^^ ■^Jiw T^ fft^T ^5i^#f»r II "^seqoii 
?r^5q ^Tsr^flTWT^: ^JiT^ s)5i^Trr!fiT fw^ II ^in, tr» ii 

^^T^T^f SffB^JT ^m ^«rf ^TfsW^TTlftlfir II ^\^ tT» 1) 
^ TTf SfRPT 3jT^f aiT^rr^''7r^^^«: II 

Colophon, ^mi^^^rffl'^sifrT^Tflfww^TJiwriiTsiTJJSii f m^r^f ^mi ii 
II w^ qo II 



No. B. 3. 
AS'OKA AYADA'NA. 



Substance, Nepalese paper of a yellow colour, 16 X 5°. Folia, 276. Lines 
on a page, 8. Extent in s'lokas, 9,660. Character, Newari. Appearance, old. 
Verse. Incorrect. 

An aocount of the early life of As'oka, and of his conversion to Bud- 
dhism, and tales and anecdotes related to him by a Yati named Upa 
Gupta, with a view to illustrate the morality of the Bauddha religion. 
The name of the author is not given, but the work professes to be a record 
of the history of As'oka which a sage, named Jayas'ri, related to his 
audience at the Kukkuta Yihara, situated in a garden called Upakan- 
thikarSma, on the bank of the Ganges at Pataliputra. There is a 
Kukkuta Vihcira in Behar, but that is not on the bank of the Ganges ; 
this must therefore be different. 

Mr. Hodgson says the class of works called Avaddna includes trea- 
tises on " the fruits of actions or moral law of mundane existence."* 
According to Burnouf : " lis s'oocupent, en effet, comme le dit la liste 
nepalaise, du fruit des ceuvres ; qui signifie ligende, ricit Ugendaire, 
ainsi que I'entend Osoma de Coros, d'apr^s les interpretes tibetains du 
Kahgyur. Ces l^gendes roulent d'ordinaire sur ces deux sujets, I'expli- 
cation des actions pr^sentes par les actions pass^es, et I'annonce des 
recompenses ou des peines r^serv^es pour I'avenir aux actions prdsentes. 
Ce double objet est, on le voit, nettement r4sum6 dans la definition de 
la listes n^pdlaise, k laquelle 11 ne manque que la traduction litterale 
du mot san8krite."t 

The conclusions arrived at by Burnouf are — 1st, that the Avaddnas 
of the Nepalese represent the second division of the Buddhist scriptures 
or that which includes the Vinaya or discipline. 2nd, That this discipline 
is not taught dogmatically as in the Siitras, but illustrated by examples 
anecdotes and stories. 3rd, That they refer to all matters relating to 
Buddhist rules of conduct, both for householders and for the clergy, and 
monks, as well as to forms of rituals, and mode of life under all 

* Illustrations of the Literature and Eeligion of the Buddhists p. 23. 
t Introduction a I'histoire du Buddhisme, p. 64. 



circumstances. 4th, That we have in them the history of Buddhism 
both of the time of S'akya, and of his successors for a long period.* 
These facts will be illustrated at length in the analyses which will fol- 
low of the several Avadanas which occur in the collection now under 
notice. 

The genealogy of As'oka begins with Bimbisara, king of Haja- 
griha, who was a contemporary of S'akya. His lineal descendants suc- 
cessively were — 

2. Mahipdla. 7. Turakuri. 

3. TJdayis'a. 8. Mahamandala. 

4. Munda. 9. Prasenajit. 
6. KSkavarni. 10. Nanda. 

6. Sahali. 11. Yindus^ra. 

These names occur in the life of As'oka given in the Divya Ava- 
dana, except the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 7th which have been differently 
given, Ajatasatru appearing for Mahipala, Udayin for TJdayis'a, Muyin 
or Udayibhava, for Munda and Tulakuchi for Turakuri or Turakuvi. 
In the absence of necessary MSS. it is impossible to ascertain how 
far these differences are due to copyist's errors. Apparently they are. 
The lists given in the Pdli annals and in the Vishnu Purana are more 
seriously discrepant. They stand thus : — 



Vishnu Purana, Vol. 


lY, 






Mahdwanso, pp. 15 — 20. 


pp. 180—186. 










1. S'is'unaga. 






1. 


Ajatasattu. 


2. Kakavarna. 






2. 


XJddyibhaddhako. 


3. Kshemadharman. 






3. 


Anuruddhako. 


4. Kshattraujas. 






4. 


Mundo. 


5. Vidmisara, or Bimbisara. 




5. 


Nagadasako. 


6. Ajatas'atru. 






6. 


Susunago. 


7. Darbhaka. 






7. 


Kalds'oko. 


8. TJdayds'va. 






8. 


Ten sons of the last, no name 


9. Nandivardhana. 








given. 


10. Mahanandi. 






9. 


Chandagutto. 


11. Sumalya &o., the nine Nandas. 


10. 


Bindusaro. 


12. Chandragupta. 










13. Vindusara. 










The other Puranas 


give 


many different versions of the names 


above noted, (see Mr. 


Hall's 


Notes in loco cit.). The Pali names are 




# 


Ibid 


1,P- 


47. 



8 

obviously not so authentic as the Buddhist ones from Nepal. The latter 
were very early translated into the Chinese and have therefore better 
claim to confidence. At the same time it should be observed that the 
omission of the name of Chandragupta from the latter is significant. 
Coupled with the fact mentioned by the Nepalese writer that Vindusara 
came to Magadha from Eajagriha, it suggests the idea that Chandra- 
gupta was the sole king of his race, and that the Mauriya line com- 
menced and ended with him. The Pali annals make Vindusara the son of 
Chandragupta. If so he could not have come from Eajagriha to take 
possession of his ancestral kingdom of Magadha. This is, however, not 
the place to enter into a discussion on the subject. 

According to the work under notice Yindusara of Eajagriha became 
the king of Pataliputra, and his eldest son was Susima. When 
Vindusara was reigning at Pataliputra, a Brahman of Champapuri 
presented to him a daughter named Subhadraiigi. The damsel was 
extraordinarily beautiful, and a soothsayer having foretold that she 
would be the wife of a great king and mother of a universal monarch, 
the father made the present with a view to help the prophecy. The 
immediate fruit of this presentation did not, however, prove satisfactory 
to Subhadrangi. Immured in the palace she was, through the jealousy 
of the princesses of the zenana, doomed to menial service. Among 
other low occupations she was ordered to acquire the art of a barber, 
whereby, she was told, she would gain the goodwill of the king. When 
well proficient in the art she was ordered by the princesses to go and 
shave the king. She did so, and acquitted herself so well that the king 
offered to grant her any boon she wished. She prayed for his society ; 
but the king denounced her on account of her being of the low caste of a 
barber. She explained that she was only acting the part of a barber 
by order of the princesses of the palace, but that she was a Brahmani 
by birth, and had been presented to the king expressly with a view to his 
marrying her. The king, thus reminded of her history, granted her 
wish, and made her the chief queen of the palace. As'oka was the first 
fruit of this union. He was so named because the mother emancipated 
herself from her sufferings by his birth, the word meaning " griefless." 
The lady had a second son named Vigatas'oka, which word has a simi- 
lar meaning. As'oka was very unruly and troublesome, and his father 
made him over for training to an astrologer, named Pingalavatsa, who 
foretold that the boy would succeed his father on the throne of 
Pataliputra. 



9 

When the prince had attained his majority, his character did not 
mend ; he was found so troublesome, that it was deemed advisable tp 
get rid of him by deputing him to quell a mutiny which had broken out 
at Takshas'iM, at a great distance from the seat of the empire. His 
efforts proved successful, and he was well received by the people of that 
place. In the meantime his elder brother Susima created disturbances 
at PStaliputra, and offended the chief minister, through whose intrigue 
he too was sent to Takshas'il^, and As'oka was recalled therefrom. 

Soon after, the king fell ill, appointed As'oka his successor through 
the instigation of the minister, but, much against his own will, and died. 
Susima, disappointed of his patrimony, rose against his younger brother, 
and attacked Pataliputra ; but As'oka, through his able minister Eadha 
Gupta, soon overpowered him, and, to prevent future disturbances, 
ordered his ministers " to lop off the heads of all the trees in the royal 
garden with their flowers and fruits," in the same sense in which 
Tarquin the Proud lopped off the heads of the "tallest poppies" in his 
garden to instruct his son as to what he should do. The ministers 
demurred, and so he himself struck off their heads, and, retiring to a 
garden with the ladies of the palace, enjoyed the pleasures of life to the 
utmost. 

Noticing one day that some of the ladies had broken the branches 
of an As'oka tree, he was very much annoyed, and directed a wicked man 
named Ohandagirika, " the fierce mountaineer", to burn them to ashes on 
a large fire, and this was immediately done. The mountaineer, however, 
soon after met his deserts. Sarthavaha, a rich merchant, had proceeded to 
sea in the company of a hundred other merchants, and there had a son 
born unto him, who was named Samudra. On his way home, after 
twelve years, falling into the hands of pirates, he was deprived of all his 
effects, and murdered along with all his companions. His son Samudra 
alone escaped, and led the life of a beggar. Once he came to the house 
of the mountaineer to beg alms, and was set upon, but could not by any 
means be murdered. Surprised at it, the mountaineer reported the cir- 
cumstance to As'oka. The king came to see the strange beggar, heard 
everything from him, and then cut off the head of the mountaineer. 

The miracle wrought by the beggar worked on the mind of the king; 
and he became attached to the religion of Buddha. He caused a chaitya 
to be erected at the Kukkuta garden, and deposited in it some relioa 
of Buddha. He then caused a chaitya and other religious edifices to be 
erected at Edmagrama. Coming thence to the river Granges, he was 
2 



10 

requested by the Nagas to go to their country, and there h& caused 
religious edifices to he erected. At the request of the people of 
Takshas'ila, he caused 3,510,000,000 stupas to be erected for the deposit 
of relics. By his order the Takshas erected, on the shores of the sea, 
ten million stupas for the same purpose. 

After this a son was born unto him named Kun£a, who soon dis- 
tinguished himself in all that was taught him. 

Subsequently, on one occasion As'oka went to a Yati, at the Kuk- 
kuta garden, to study the true religion, and, at the suggestion of that 
recluse, sent for, from the IJrumunda Hill, a Yati named Upa Grupta, 
to whom he assigned the monastery of Venuvana, or the " Bamboo 
Grove." This saint was the son of Gupta, a rich man of Mathura, who 
had been converted by one Sonavasi, a mendicant who resided on 
the Urumunda Hill, and presented his three sons As'va Gupta, Dhana 
Gupta and TJpa Gupta to his tutor. A prophecy of Buddha is quoted, 
according to which the birth of IJpa Gupta was to take place a hundred 
years after his demise (mama nirvritimarabhya s'atavarshagate upa' 
guptammabhikshurutpatsyati.) (Fol. 23-2-1.) This chronology, how- 
ever, does not accord with the statement that As'oka was the thirteenth 
from Bimbisara, a contemporary of the great teacher. A contemporary 
of As'oka could scarcely be born within a hundred years of the reformer's 
death. Such a prophecy, however, was needed to exalt the rank of the 
great teacher who became the spiritual guide of so mighty a sovereign as 
As'oka. Having studied Buddhism under this tutor, As'oka caused, at 
every Buddhist resort, a Matha to be established for the adoration of the 
" Three Jewels." 

When the teacher retired to his own hermitage, As'oka caused a 
proclamation to be issued declaring Buddhism to be the religion of his 
country. His chief queen Pavishyarakshita was, however, annoyed at 
his forsaking the old family religion, and, through a secret agent, got 
the sacred tree where adoration was paid, to be cut down. As'oka was 
much grieved at this ; but, through the miraculous power of his religion, 
he restored it to life. He deputed Supindola Bharadvdja, a Yati, from 
the Mandar Hill, to preach the true religion everywhere over his empire, 
and celebrated with great pomp the quinquennial humiliation and con- 
ference, giving a great profusion of wealth, raiment and food to the clergy. 
About this time he also celebrated the marriage of his son Kunala 
with a maiden named Kanchanamala, and soon after deputed the son 
to quell an insurrection in Takshas'ila, a distant province, which seems 



11 

to have been ill at ease under the house of Bimhis&a. Kunjarakarna, the 
chief of the rebels, succumbed to the powerful army which follow- 
ed the prince, and peace was soon restored. The insurrection, however, 
would appear to be a feint, and the real reason, as in the case of Susima 
and As'oka himself, was the removal of a troublesome prince from near 
the throne ; for it is stated, apparently by way of euphemism, that soon 
after the deputation, the king saw in a dream the prince's face all pale, 
haggard, and dried up, and, being informed by astrologers that that por- 
tended one of three things, mz. loss of life, retirement from the world as a 
hermit, or loss of sight, wrote a letter to Kunjarakarna to deprive the 
prince of his eyesight, as the least of the three evils. The mandate was 
duly carried out through the instrumentality of a Chandala — the task hav- 
ing been held as too cruel to be executed by any person of a higher caste. 
It is not a noteworthy fact that after this Vitas 'oka, the younger brother 
of the king, should retire to the hermitage of TJpa Gupta, and afterwards 
accept from Gunakara, a disciple of that teacher, consecration as a 
houseless hermit. This renunciation of the world did not, however, 
enable him to escape with his life. It so happened that at this time a 
professor of the Nirgrantha school, who reviled the religion of Buddha, 
had got a picture painted, representing himself with the likeness of 
Buddha lying at his feet, and this he had circulated widely in the 
province of Pundravardhana, and As'oka, hearing of it, had proclaimed 
a price (some dinars) on his head. A cow-herd (Abhira) had heard of 
this, and one night taking Vitas 'oka, with his long beard, matted un- 
kempt hair, and uncut nails, to be the Nirgrantha, cut off his head, and 
presented it to the king with a view to obtain the promised reward. 
The sight of the head deeply grieved the king ; and he sought from 
tlpa Gupta, his spiritual guide, religious consolation for his many acts 

of cruelty. 

A hundred folia of the text are devoted to the life of As'oka as 
given above. The incidents narrated are the same as those given in 
the Divya Avadana, translated by Burnouf ;* but the language is 
different the one being a prose work, and the other a poetical version- 
The rest of the work is made up of lectures delivered by the teacher for 
the consolation of his royal pupil. 

The first lecture is devoted to the celebration of a fast in honor of 
a chaitya {chaitya-vrata}, and the religious merit derivable therefrom. 

* Introduction a rHistoire du Buddhisms indien, pp. 358, 435. 



12 

The second expatiates on the merits of devotion to Buddha, and on 
the propriety of confessing to him one's sins, praying for redemption. 
The third is on desire to be useful to mankind. The next five 
lectures have for their themes, contentment (samprasdda) ; the sup- 
pression of the passions and indifi'erence to carnal suffering (kshanti- 
pdramitdj ; relinquishment of works tending to birth, death and hell, 
and devotion to Buddha (virya pdramitd) ; the abstraction of the mind 
from worldly affairs, to be centred in meditation (Bhyana-paramita) ; and 
the conviction that all things are illusory, and Buddha alone is true 
(Pajna. pdramitd). These are followed by a story in which seven 
maidens obtained preeminence by devotion to Buddha. It forms the 
subject of a distinct work, (Sapta-humarikd Avaddnd) , and will be noticed 
under that head. The means of salvation and the evils of mundane 
existence are then descanted upon, and they are followed by a long 
string of stories in illustration of various duties incumbent on house- 
holders and hermits, and of proper and improper conduct. 

Prasenajit and Ajatas'atru were rival kings who long fought with 
each other for supremacy. Thrice had the former been defeated, but, 
a rich banker helping him with a thousand pieces of gold, on the fourth 
occasion he became successful. To evince his gratitude he placed the 
banker on the throne for seven days, during which the latter did a great 
deal to promote the spread of Baudha religion. 

A householder was a great reviler of the Baudha religion, but was 
converted by the sight of some miracles performed by Maudgalyayana. 
He then worshipped S'akya with great devotion, and beheld the miracle 
of lights of various colours issuing from the mouth of the great Saint. 

The person of a Brahman's wife, when enciente, smelt most offensively. 
Astrologers declared the cause to be the presence of a Preta (an evil 
spirit) in her womb. She brought forth an ugly brat whose body smelt 
like a putrid substance, and who was fond of feasting'on aquatic weeds 
unfit for human food, whence his name Durgandha Jambala. After 
roaming about in many places, Jambala sought the shelter of Bhaga- 
van when he sojourned at Kut^gara near the Karkata tank, in the sub- 
urbs of Vais'ali. The Lord converted him, and, when asked by his 
followers the cause of the foetid odour, said, that it was due to his having, 
in a former life, abused a Tati. 

Once when Presanajit, king of S'ravasti, was retiring from Jetavana, 
after adoring Bhagavdn, five hundred geese came to him, and announced 



13 

that the king of Panohala had heen greatly pleased to notice Prasenajit'a 
devotion, and was coming to congratulate him on his conversion to the 
true faith. Prasenajit let loose the geese in the tank near the monas- 
tery, and retired. The geese, hearing the discourses of Bhagavan, were 
released from their anserine form, whereupon they repaired to the 
highest heaven. BhagavSn explains that the geese were Brahman 
Buddhists who, hearing the evil teaching of some Tirthikas, had 
wavered in their belief, and were therefore punished by being doomed 
to be born as geese. From the genealogical table above given it will be 
seen that Prasenajit was the 9th from Bimbisara, a contemporary of 
S'dkya, and could not have been a contemporary of the great teacher ; 
but such anachronisms are frequent in the Avaddnas. The Tir- 
thikas appear to have been Jains ; some say they are Brahmanas. 

A youth of the name of Viditajasaof the S'akya race, solicited Bha- 
gavan, when he was at Kapila A's'rama, to make him a monk. The lord 
declined, because he was a youth, and had not obtained his father's 
sanction. Sanction was, after some difficulty, obtained and he was or- 
dained. His claim to the distinction was, that he had, in a former life, 
replaced a flag which had been knocked down by some wrestlers whom he 
overcame in fight. 

King Prasenajit had a very ugly daughter, by name Kutsitd, whom 
he gave away to one Gafiga. The husband, ashamed of his bargain, 
and apprehensive of ridicule from his relations, kept her confined in a 
room. The relatives wished much to see her, and once proposed that 
at a festive assembly whoever would come without his wife would be 
fined five hundred pieces of coin. Every one came to the assembly 
with his wife, except G-anga, who paid the fine. Kutsita heard of this, 
and, to relieve her husband of the trouble she caused him, repaired to 
a jungle to commit suicide. Just, after applying the noose round her 
neck she prayed to Buddha. Kays of light from the person of the Lord, 
came to her rescue, and by their touch converted her into a handsome 
woman. Thus metamorphosed she returned home. In the mean time 
the relatives had plied Ganga with so much wine that he became 
insensible, and lay on the ground. Seizing this opportunity they went 
to the house of Gaiiga, and were surprised to behold the most handsome 
woman they had ever cast their eyes on. Eeturning to the place of 
feasting they congratulated Ganga on the possession of such a beauty. 
He took the remarks of his relatives to be mere banter, but, on return 



14 

home, was himself surprised to behold the change. The lady soon after 
obtained her husband's permission to become a mendicant, and was duly 
ordained by the Lord. The cause of her ugliness is related to be her 
fault, committed during a former life, in having expelled from her home 
a Pratyeka Buddha named Virupa, after insulting him for his ugliness. 

A king of the Kaurava race, while reigning at Kashthanagara, 
■wished to be a hermit. The Lord refused to ordain him until he had 
obtained the permission of his wife and relatives. He did so, and was 
ordained. His good fortune was due to various acts of piety performed 
in former lives, which are detailed at length. 

When sojourning at Jetavana near S'ravasti, S'dkya Sifiha once 
dwelt on the importance of giving presents to worthy persons, and, in 
illustration of this subject, said, that when, after many successful ven- 
tures and loaded with valuable commodities including sandal -wood of 
the kind called Gos'irsha, a number of merchants were returning home 
from Eakshasa-dvipa (island of genii), a violent hurricane arose, and 
every moment threatened them with destruction. Beholding this, some 
offered their prayers to Tirthikas, some to Chandra, some to S'akra, 
some to Agni, some to Varuna, and so on, but to no avail. One of them, 
named Punyasena, prayed Hetuttama, a Bodhisattva who dwelt near his 
abode. Immediately the vessel was cast on shore, and the merchants 
returned home. Just at the time Hetuttama happened to be laid up 
with a burning fever, and his medical advisers recommended an un- 
guent of Gros'irsha to be smeared on his person. Knowing that the drug 
was to be had only from Punyasena, king Chandraloka offered four lacs 
of coins for a supply of it. Punyasena declined the offer, but, carried 
the drug to the hermit, and cured his suffering with it. The result of 
this act of beneficence was, that the person of the merchant became 
most beautiful and redolent with exquisite aroma, and all the wealth he 
had lost at sea was found in the bottom of the well behind his house. 

Bhava S'arma, a Brahman of S'ravasti, was one night about to go to 
his lady love, when his old mother stood in the way, and prevented him. 
He felt vexed and killed her ; but when he came to his mistress and told 
her of what he had done for her love, she was annoyed, and sent him away 
from her house, as she would not associate with a matricide. Deeply mor- 
tified, he consulted certain Brahmanas, and through their advice, per- 
formed all the expiatory ceremonies enjoined in the Yedas, but they failed 
to afford him consolation. At last he retired to the wilderness, and, by the. 
advice of a Bhikshu, performed the rite called ashtdnga upamdha, (the 



15 

cleansing of the eight members of the body,) and, then going to the Lord 
at Jetavana, got himself ordained a hermit, and obtained peace of mind. 

Madhurasvara, a householder, had left some wealth with misers. 
The wealth, so deposited, was all destroyed -by fire. The householder 
^taught the misers the true religion, and they got their wealth back. 
Some robbers next attempted to rob them, and he saved them. He 
then became a prisoner in lieu of some mendicants, and remained 
tied hand and foot in a field. Some robbers came to kill him ; but 
Bhairavi Devi, with a retinue of five hundred imps, came to his rescue ; 
his bonds fell ofi", and he rose high up in the sky like a flamingo, where- 
upon the robbers fled, and he became a devoted hermit. 

Qne Padmaka, beholding, in his youth, a dead body, felt disgusted 
with the world, and, obtaining the permission of his parents, became a 
hermit. When at Mathura, he entered the house of a prostitute for alms. 
The frail one was charmed with the beauty of his person, and sought 
his love. He was disgusted, and immediately left her house. To over- 
come him she employed a Ohandali, who lighted a fire and by the force 
of her enchantments brought him thither ; but, rather than yield to the 
wishes of the two wicked women, he offered to jump into the blazing fire, 
and kill himself. His enticers were terrified, and at last took his advice, 
and became mendicants. 

The Lord Jina was once in the Nandana garden of Indra, and there, 
amidst the gods, performed many miracles for their edification. He 
performed the meditation (samadhi) called Durgati-sodhana, and instant- 
ly millions of rays of diverse colours issued from his body, and blessed 
the gods. He then performed the Bajddhishthdna meditation, and 
similar rays issued from his turban, purified all classes of beings, and 
returned back to their place. Then issued from his person the Srit 
mantra, and the sound of it at once translated the dwellers of hell to 
heaven. Then from his turban issued the sound of Guhya mantra, and 
it excited in all created beings a desire to adore the three Eatnas. 
Similarly the Munindrahrit mantra issued therefrom and excited in all 
creation a desire to adopt the Bodhi religion. Then the Sarvajinopahrit 
mantra issued forth in great effulgence, and wrought salvation for 
all the greatest sinners ; thereupon bright lights issued from the head 
of all the saints, and the Lord closed his instruction by explaining 
the secret knowledge of the great Dhdrani. 

In Mr. Beal's Tripithaka three works are mentioned as bearing 
on the life of As 'oka ; the first is A-yu-wang-pi-u-hing, which is the 



16 

same with the As'oka Avadana. The name of its translator is lost. 
The second is A-yu-wang-chun or a history of As'oka rdjS ; it was 
" translated by Ngan-fa-kin of the Western Tsin dynasty (oiro. 265- 
313), belonging to the Ngan-sih (Assika Parthian country). The third 
is named A-yu-wang-wan-muh-yun-in, and refers to the circumstances 
which induced As'oka to put out the eyes of his son. 
Beginning. ■^ ■^w. ^^^t^ tTf«rerjgB^«r: I 

vJ ^i \i 

sfWT ft -^^ -!fm fi'^sii. f{^\'^ I 

^ fl^T ^^ V,A fmi ^ JT^HTftif I 

■ti^vi ^^^'^Tft? ?i^M ^HrfVri II 

?|JIS(*IS|^WS^ JTS-Trit^ ?f^f^^ II 

%'w^ ^w^mr^ ^^g»^^^f^«f II 

^4^ ^■?i=#T<lT'f Si'^'fRrfWirf'^ef II 

«J^TT^ft5«T^t f^5Il5l^K^fet I 
Siq^'^^Ti? ^sim ^Tftr^^T ^^T^ts'^: || 

K^T ^TS'^qr^ifw^: g^^^rsr^TijijT ii 

H^ Til'JJT^ff VtStT "1^ ^t^t: si^TT^rrr: II 

TT^T K f^^^: ^^ ^%t ■ff oigf^^ II 
S)<TTSi%Y^T ffW SIT^^I^^flT^^TcT I 
«^=Tl ^rg-ffl^T^T WJl^wITfT^fT^^^: || 
^fgtT -^^ ^l^HJ^I ^tN SIT'Jl fsWTSW^rT I 



17 

sjiDsg firg?: ^^ -sj^wT^ war ii 

3r^<!rT ^ ^I'^rf^S WIT tl ^'^W TRT II 

End. 1?^ ^^"5ftHfiii:TaigR«q! ^■^f^'^igrafNirsi^WT: i 

Colophon. Tftr ^'^^^T^r^^tsmi^raf ^ffffrqtx:w;r«rsrvT<'!rtH'!i^<if'C^flT tht 



No Bi 6. 
AVADA'NA SATAKA. 



Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 15 X 4|- inches. Folia, 176. Lines 
on each page, 9. Extent in s'lokas, 6248. Character, Nagara. Date, ? 
Appearance, old. Verse and prose. Incorrect. 

A collection of stories in illustration of miracles performed by 
Buddha. Compiled bj Nandis'vara Acharya. According to the name 
of the work, there should be a hundred tales ; but the codex under 
notice contains only ninety. The stories are puerile and of little 
interest. They open and conclude in very much the same way in 
every case, and repetitions are frequent. The language is simple, 
and of the peculiar verbose style common in Nepalese Sanskrit works. 
Nothing is known of the author ; but the work is of considerable 
antiquity. It appears to be the same with the Pih-u-ldng of the 
Chinese, which was translated from the Sanskrit by one Grunabhadra. 
The Sanskrit name of the Chinese work as given by Mr. Beal is S'ata- 
vaddna Sutra, (Catalogue of the Buddhist Tripithaka, p. 88). The 
following are brief abstracts of the stories. 

Story I. — Once upon a time, the great Buddha lodged in the Bam- 
boo grove ( Venu-vana) on the side of the Kalandaka tank at Rajagriha. 
There, he initiated Eaja Bimbisara into his doctrines, and, by preaching, 
converted thousands to his faith. There lived, at this time, in a retired 
village named Dakshinagiri, one Sampurga, a Brahman as rich as Ku- 
vera. Some of his relatives embraced the Buddhist religion, and spoke 
3 



18 

highly of it before him. One day he fell on his knees and adored 
Buddha. The Lord appeared before his votary attended by Ananda. 
Samptirna received him with every manifestation of reverence due to a 
god, and waited the pleasure of the Lord. Of him the Lord sought food 
and drink, both for self and his retinue of Bhikshus. When a thousand 
begging vessels were filled with all the dainties of the time, a voice 
from heaven declared " the vessels of a thousand Bhikshus are full," 

At the manifestation of this miraculous voice, Sampurna fell, like 
a felled tree, at the feet of the Lord, and importuned him for instruction 
in Bodhi knowledge. The Lord lent a willing ear to his importuni- 
ties, and, calling to mind the doings and sufferings of his votaries 
in his former existences, smiled. Eays, blue, red, yellow and white, 
shot forth from his smiling lips. Some of these proceeded upwards 
and some downwards; the latter cooled the fiery regions of hell and 
warmed the chill blush of Stygian wind, liberating multitudes of suffering 
sinners, who repaired to the regions of the gods and of men, and there 
took new births. Those rays which preceded upwards, reached the re- 
gions of Brahma and others, and there recited the two following 
Gathds :— 

" Commence the good work, give up the world, and be obedient to 
the command of Buddha." 

These rays afterwards turned thrice round Buddha, and disappeared 
in his head-dress. When Buddha had a mind to reveal the past, these 
rays, issuing from his teeth, disappeared in his back ; when he wished 
to speak of the future they vanished in his front ; when he thought to 
speak of hell they fell at his feet ; and when of perfect knowledge they 
lost themselves in his head-dress. 

After the disappearance of these rays the Lord addressed Ananda, 
saying, " this Brahman is sure to become a great Buddha, endowed with 
mercy, memory, the three qualities, and the ten powers, observant of 
the six articles of our faith and adorned by universal benevolence." 
The Lord then taught Sampurna the perfect knowledge. 

11. — When dwelling in a lofty tower on the lake Markala, in the 
vicinity of Vaishali, the Lord, while on a begging excursion, entered 
the house of one Sifiha, a general of the royal army, who offered him 
welcome. The brilliancy of the Lord's person attracted tke notice of 
Tasomati, daughter-in-law of Sinha.' She enquired of her father-in- 
law how she could be as brilliant. He replied, by becoming a votary 
of the Lord. 



19 

Thereupon she invited Buddha and his companions, satisfied them 
with various dainty dishes, and adored the Lord by throwing flowers 
at his feet. These flowers forthwith went to the lofty tower and form- 
ed a gemmed parasol of such exquisite beauty as even the most skilled 
artist would fail to imitate. She fell at the feet of the Lord, and 
prayed for admission to the ranks of his followers. The Lord addressed 
A'nanda, saying, " This Tasomati is destined to become a great Buddha, 
Eatnamati by name." 

III. — When the Lord sojourned in the garden of Anathapindada in 
the Jeta grove at S'ravasti, there lived at S'rdsvasti a rich usurer who had 
obtained a son by worshipping Indra and other gods. The son, named 
A'nanda, grew up under the care of his parents. But he was weak in 
the loins, and even at the age of six years could not walk, though by his 
sharpness and intelligence he readily, at the time, mastered all the 
sciences of his day. The usurer was very sorry at the ailment of his 
son, and wept bitterly for his sad lot. 

The omniscient Lord, knowing all this, presented himself one day 
at the usurer's house. The boy, seeing him marked with all the 32 signs 
of greatness, suddenly rose up from his seat, received him with great 
reverence, and enquired about his health. The parents of the child 
wondered at this miraculous cure. 

The Lord smiled and said, " This boy will become a great Buddha." 

IV. — A merchant at S'ravasti carried his mercantile transactions 
beyond the sea. In two successive voyages his vessels were wrecked. 
He escaped with his life with great difficulty, his splendid fortune 
being drowned in the sea. 

He started on a third expedition with the firm conviction that the 
Lord Buddha was the greatest and most merciful of gods. This time 
fortune smiled on him ; after a prosperous voyage he returned laden 
with riches from the Jewel Island. After his return he bought two 
Karshapana worth of incense, and at the Jeta grove burnt it before the 
Lord. The smoke rose up in clouds and covered the sun. The asto- 
nished merchant invited Buddha and all his Bhikshus, feasted them 
to their fill, and showered precious stones with a lavish hand among 
them. These stones rose up in the air, and there formed a splendid 
tower and a brilliant gemmed umbrella over the Lord's head. The 
merchant fell on his knees and asked instruction in supreme knowledge. 
* The Lord said to Ananda, " This man will become a perfect Buddha, 
Eatnottama by name." 



20 

v.— In S'ravasti there was a patriarch as rich as Kuvera. When 
Devaputra fell from heaven he, under the name of Ohaodika, became 
the son of that patriarch. Ohandika for a long time suffered from a 
burning sensation throughout his body. Obtaining no relief from 
medicines, he meditated on Buddha. The Lord kindly presented him- 
self before Ohandika, and granted him a medicine obtained from Indra. 
It effected an instant cure. Ohandika feasted Buddha to his entire 
satisfaction and asked instruction in supreme knowledge. 

The Lord said to Ananda &c. 

VI.— Before the advent of Buddha Raja Prasenajit used to worship 
the Tirthikas, but, after the appearance of that great preacher, he bowed 
to none but the great Lord. "W hen the Lord was dwelling in the 
Jeta grove, a gardener of S'ravasti brought a big lotus flower as a 
present for the king. 

A worshipper of the Tirthikas asked its price. At this time Anatha- 
pindada came and doubled its value. They bade against each othei? 
with emulous pride till the price rose to a hundred-fold; Thereupon 
the gardener enquired about the whereabouts of Buddha, and, hear- 
ing of his great power from An^thapindada, presented the flower 
to the Lord. Instantly the lotus swelled out to the size of a carriage 
wheel, and stood over Buddha's head. The gardener, astonished at this, 
asked instruction in supreme knowledge. The Lord said to A'nanda, 
" This man is to become a great Buddha, Padmodbhava by name." 

VII. — When the Lord was dwelling in the Jeta grove, the kings 
of North and South Kos'hala made war upon each other. Raja 
Prasenajit came with a sorrowful countenance to the Lord, and begged 
him to bring about a peace. Whereupon the Lord proceeded to Benares 
where the king of North Kos'hala paid him a visit. Buddha preach- 
ed before him the blessings of peace. His lecture had the desired 
effect. The king repented, and went to a monastery where he rose to 
the rank of an Arhat. 

At the request of the Southern king Buddha lived for three months 
in his capital. The king bestowed on him the gift of a thousand 
pieces of cloth, and asked instruction in perfect knowledge. 

The Lord said to A'nanda, " The king will become a perfect Buddha 
under the name Vijais for this good work." 

VIII. — When the Lord resided in the Jeta grove, two bankers of 
S'ravasti quarrelled with each other. One was a Buddhist, the other a 



21 

follower of a Tirthika named Purana. Each held hia object of worship 
to be the most powerful. The king Prasenajit convened a large 
assembly to settle their quarrel, and requested the disputants to worship 
each his own god. The flowers offered to Purana fell to the ground, 
while those offered to Buddha flew like so many flamingoes (hansa) to- 
wards the Jota grove. The worshipper of Pdrana, astonished at his 
great mistake, deserted the altar of his god and falling on his knees, 
asked &c. 

IX. — The ninth miracle is wanting. 

X. — Once upon a time Ajatas'atru defeated Kaja Prasenajit in a 
great battle. The vanquished monarch, overwhelmed with grief at 
this sad reverse of his fortune, shut himself up in one of the innermost 
apartments of his seraglio. On this, a rich banker of S'ravasti incited 
the king to go again to war by offering him a large heap of gold. In 
this second battle Ajatas'atru was made a captive. Prasenajit went in 
triumph to the Jeta grove where the Lord was residing, carrying the 
captive in his train. There, before the Lord, he generously set the 
vanquished king at liberty. 

Prasenajit did not forget the banker. He offered the man his 
throne for a week. During this week the banker-king had no other 
occupation but honoring the Lord and feasting his Bhikshus. At the 
expiration of his short reign, he fell at the feet of the Lord, and asked 
for supreme felicity. 

The Lord addressed to A'nanda, saying, " This man will obtain his 
desired object. He will become a Buddha, Avayaprada by name." 

XL — The Lord was residing in a hamlet down the stream Ajera- 
vati, in S'rdvasti. Theinhabitantsof that place were all boatmen. They 
cheerfully entertained the Lord with a share of their frugal fare, and 
sat round him in a retired spot, listening to him with great attention. 
From him the boatmen obtained each his desire. 

The Lord revealed the secret of his great miraculous power to 
those Bhikshus who were desirous of knowing it in the following 
words : — 

" Once on a time a Buddha, Bhagiratha by name, reached the 
banks of the Ganges with two thousand Bhikshus, on a travel round the 
country. A merchant, who was ferrying his goods over the stream with 
a number of his dependents, approached the Lord respectfully, helped 
him in crossing over the stream, and feasted him to his entire satisfac- 



22 

tion. I am that merchant. I enjoy the supreme felicity by the virtue 
of my good works in my former existences." 

XII. — Perambulating in the Kaurava country, the Lord one day 
reached its capital. There he summoned Indra and bestowed on him 
a quantity of sandal-wood from Gos'irsha. A few days later Indra, 
expecting favours from the Lord, anointed him with the sandal, and feast- 
ed him with rich viands. Wondering at the submission of the gods, 
thousands of the Kaurava race flocked round him to receive his blessing. 
By his precepts every one obtained what he desired. 

The Lord addressed the Bikshus who desired to know the secret of 
his power, saying : — 

" A great Buddha, Brahma by name, entered once the capital of a 
Eshatriya king, who prayed the Lord for staying there for a period of 
three months. During this short time, the king honored the Lord in 
every possible way. He offered him flowers, aromatios, incense, rich 
food, splendid robes and the sandal from Gos'irsha. 

" Bhikshus ! I am that king ; by virtue of my former good works 
I obtain this puja from the gods." 

XIII. — While the Lord was living in the Jeta grove a caravan 
of five hundred merchants missed their way in a sandy desert, and 
Bufi'ered greatly from the scorching heat of the meridian sun. Every 
moment their sufferings grew more and more intense. They prayed 
Varuna and others, but from none did they receive the least help. 
They then sought protection from Buddha. The Lord Buddha left 
the Jeta grove, and appeared before them. They welcomed him with 
ardent manifestations of respect. ■ By the command of Buddha, Indra 
sent refreshing showers down, and fresh and delightful breezes blew from 
the south. The merchants, relieved of their sufferings, went to S'ravasti. 
There they obtained all they desired through the blessing of the 
Lord. 

The Lord addressed the Bhikshus, saying ; "In ancient days Ohan- 
dana, a great Buddha, went to the capital of a king. The king prevailed 
upon the Lord by his entreaty to honor his capital with a temporary re- 
sidence for three months. There was no rain for several years in the 
kingdom ; the ministers advised the king to bathe the Lord with per- 
fumed water. The Lord was delighted, and forthwith heavy showers 
of rain fell from the clouds. I made one of those that poured the per- 
fumed water over the Lord's head." 



23 

XIV. — Once on a time the city of Nathakantha was desolated 
by a destructive epidemic. The suffering multitude prayed Indra and 
other gods for help, but to no effect. They then sought protection 
from Buddha. He appeared among them from his then residence in 
the Bamboo grove (Venu-vana) in Edjagriha, and granted them 
relief. The Brahmanas of the place, grateful for the kindness of the 
Lord, listened to his preaching with great attention. They obtained 
all their desires through his lectures. 

The Lord revealed to the Bhikshus the real cause of his great 
power. He said, " Chandana, a great Buddha, entered of yore the 
capital of a Kshatriya king. The king honored him greatly. I was 
that king ; my great power resulted from that great man's blessing." 

XT. — The Lord lodged in the Bamboo grove on the side of the 
tank Kalandaka. Ajdtas'atru, the king of that place, was a great 
hater of the Buddhists. He made preparations for an extensive sa- 
crifice. Brahmans came to the sacrifice by thousands, but none to the 
Bamboo grove. 

When the priests offered the oblation to Indra, the Lord, disguised 
in the form of that god, accepted it from them. People wondered at 
the visible appearance of the god, and came flocking to the sacred spot. 
To the great astonishment of the assembled multitude the Lord assum- 
ed his own form. Many turned Buddhist at this miracle and obtained 
•whatever they desired from the great Lord. 

The Lord revealed to the Bhikhus the following ancient story. 
" A Kshatriya king founded a splendid Vihara at the desire of Indra- 
dyumna, a great Buddha. I was that Kshatriya king who was blessed 
by Indradyumna." 

XVI.— Ajatas'atru and Devadatta, two great enemies of the Buddhist 
faith, published a hostile criticism on the sacred books of that religion. 
Thereupon Indra visited the Lord, and himself superintended the deco- 
ration of the Bamboo grove, which rivalled Vaijayanta. At this the 
people went in crowds to receive blessings from the Lord, in spite of 
royal prohibition. The king was at last obliged to revoke his decree 
against the Lord's worship. 

XVII. — There were five hundred musicians at S'ravasti. The 
king had a great taste for music. Supriya, a master musician, applied 
one day for permission to play on the Vina before him. The king 
took Supriya to Jetavana. Supriya's performance was quite charming. 



24 

But the Lord had, before this, from prescience of Supriya's design, in- 
vited Panchas'ikha, the prince of heavenly choristers. Panchas'ikha now 
played on a Yfna the staff of which was set with gems and rubies. Every 
one was ravished. Supriya and hia tuneful band, knowing the eva- 
nescent character of all worldly excellence, invited the Lord to a sump- 
tuous feast, and solicited Bodhi knowledge. The Lord smiled, and said to 
Ananda; " These musicians will become BuddhasYarnas'varas by name." 
Then he addressed the Bhikshus, saying, " This my great power is owing 
to my merit in feasting and delighting Prabodha, a great Buddha." 

XVIII. — When the Lord was at S'ravasti an adulterer was led to 
the place of execution by an order from the king. Having fortunately 
met the Lord on the way, the convict prayed him for his own life. The 
Lord sent i[nanda to procure a reprieve from the king on the score of 
the convict's betaking himself to a monastery. As a monk the adul- 
terer soon became celebrated for his piety and devotion. 

The Lord said to the Bhikshus : — " In one of my former existences 
I was a Brahmana, Padas'ata by name. I gave Lord Indradhvaja an 
excellent dinner at that time. From him I got this my present power." 

XIX. — When the Lord sojourned in the Bamboo grove, Bimbisara, 
the king of Magadha, approached him reverentially with drums beating 
and cymbals sounding, led him in a pompous procession to the capital, 
and feasted him magnificently. 

The Lord said to the Bhikshus that in one of his former exis- 
tences he, as a king, had honored Buddha Kshemankara in a similar way. 

XX. — A rich banker in S'ravasti was converted to Buddhism by 
Maudgalyayana. He gratified the Lord by inviting him to a dinner of a 
hundred dishes of delicious viands, and prayed for Bodhi knowledge. 
The Lord smiled, variously coloured rays of light issued from his teeth 
as described in miracle I. The Lord said to Ananda, " This banker will 
become a great Buddda, Divyananda by name." 

XXI. — Travelling in Magadha the Lord stood one day on the 
banks of the Ganges. The Bhikshus beheld a large stupa at a little 
distance, and enquired to whose honor it had been raised. The Lord re- 
|)lied ; "Brahmadatta was the king of Benares in ancient times. 
Being childless he worshipped many gods. Once he found in his gar- 
den tank a boy marked with all the 32 signs of greatness, born in a lotus, 
and seated on its seed vessel. He picked the boy up, and had him edu- 
cated as his own son. At every step the boy took, lotus flowers issued 



25 

from his feet and instantly withered and decayed. Kas'yapa instruc- 
ted him in divine knowledge. He left the world, and, becoming a her- 
mit, obtained supreme felicity. 

XXII. — As the Lord was passing one day through a street of 
S'r^vasti,- a boy fetched a full-blown lotus from a gardener in the bazar, 
and threw it upon the Lord's head. The Lord smiled and said, "For this 
deed of merit this boy will become a great Buddha, Padmottara by 
name." 

XXIII. — The wife of a sea -faring merchant vowed that she would, 
on the safe and speedy return of her husband, present to the shrine of 
Vishnu, a golden wheel. On his arrival, true to her vow, she proceeded 
straight to the temple, but met the Lord Buddha in the midway. 
Observing him marked with all the 32 signs of greatness, she offered 
the wheel to him. The Lord smiled and said, On her attainment to the 
Bodhi knowledge, she will become a great Buddha, named Ohakrantara. 

XXIV. — On arriving before a large stupa, the Bhikshus in his re- 
tinue enquired of the Lord, to whom was the old stiipa dedicated ? The 
Lord replied, to Das'as'iras. The gardener of a king named Brahmadatta 
found a little urchin one day on a lotus flower, and presented it to the 
king. The king named him Das'as'iras. On arriving to majority, he 
left the king, and became a hermit. As fire expires when fuel is con- 
sumed, so he obtained utter annihilation. 

The Bhikshus enquired about the merits of Das'as'iras. The Lord 
replied that in one of his former existences Das'as'iras threw a lotus 
flower on Buddha Vipas'chit. From that Lord he obtained a boon, 
dissevering the bond of transmigration. 

XXV. — A rich merchant of S'ravasti, considering the evanescent 
character of all worldly happiness, determined to buy the goodwill of 
the Lord at the sacrifice of everything else. The Lord prophesied that 
the merchant would become a great Buddha, Sukshmatvak by name. 

XXVI. — The next merchant who obtained the Lord's favor was 
prophesied to obtain the name of Sitaprabha on his attaining nirvana. 

XXVII. — The boatman who ferried the Lord across the Ganges in 
one of his numerous travels in Magadha was blessed to have the name 
Samsarottarana when he should attain supreme felicity by the teach- 
ing of the Lord. 

XXVIII. — A girl one day decked the Lord's feet with red sandal- 
wood paste. When he went on his begging tour, the whole city o£ 
4 



26 

S'ravasti was reddened with the paste. At this marvellous display of 
the Lord's power, the girl, on her knees, prayed for Bodhi knowledge, 
which the Lord granted her. She became a great lord, named Dharma- 
dana. 

XXIX.— A gardener presented the Lord at S'rSvastI with a pil- 
grim's staff. The Lord took it, and planted it in the earth. Forth- 
with it swelled to the size of a big banian tree, covered all over with 
beautiful green foliage. At this miraculous power of the Lord, the 
gardener, &c. &c. His name was to be Nirmala. 

XXX.— A band of intoxicated revellers was dancing and singing 
in a street of S'ravasti. The Lord presented himself among them. 
Their riotous indecent songs changed at once into hymns in praise of 
the Lord, They threw blue lotuses on his head. These flowers rose 
up in the air and there formed a rich parasol. At this marvellous display 
&o. They were each to be named Balgusvana on attaining Bodhi 
knowledge. 

XXXI. — At one time the Bhikshus suffered greatly from an 
epidemic of jaundice. They enquired of the Lord the cause of such 
suffering. The Lord said : — " The people of Benares laboured under 
this very same disease in the reign of Padmaka. The physicians, unable 
to relieve the jaundiced by the medicines they had, advised them to bring, 
a Eohita fish of a particularly large size. But this fish was nowhere to 
be found. The king, who loved his subjects greatly, unable to behold 
their sufferings, vowed to give up his life. He abdicated the throne in 
favour of his son, leaped from the terrace of his palace, and died. On 
his death he became a big Rohita fish. By the use of its flesh, every one 
obtained a thorough cure. After this the Eohita fish addressed his 
subjects in the following way : ' Come, my people, I will teach you 
the excellent Bodhi knowledge, by which you will obtain nirvana.' 
They said ' You took for us so much pains, therefore when you become 
a Buddha we will become your disciples.' "i 

XXXII. — The Lord taught the doctrine that merit results from 
giving alms, and that a meritorious man can work miracles. He gave 
the following as an instance : 

Once upon a time, the kingdom of one Brahmadatta being stricken 
by a severe famine, he numbered his people, weighed the grains in the 
country, and made it a rule that every one should get only one mouthful 
of food a day, only the king getting two. A Brah'man, who was not 



27 

included in the census, demanded his portion. The king gave up half his 
share. Then Indra in the disguise of a Brahman came to demand 
his share. The king, even at the risk of his life, gladly offered 
it to him. Indra greatly delighted, sent down a heavy shower of 
rain. 

XXXIII.— Devadatta sent assassins to the Jetavana grove to kill 
the Lord. The Lord received the murderers very hospitably. The 
Bhikshus wondering at this, the Lord said :— " Bramhadatta, king of 
Benares, had by his queen Durmati an only son Dharmpala by 
name. Durmati, full of anger, envy and malice vowed one day, 
'If I take anything in the king's household I shall drink my 
son's blood by cutting his throat.' At the nonfulfilment of the vow, 
the king in wrath commanded her to keep her word. The child 
cried pitiously in the agony of death. But the cruel mother would not 
relent. I am that Dharmapala, and this Devadatta is that Durmati." 

XXXIV. — ABhikshu, who wanted to mend his nether garment, wept 
bitterly, not being able to thread the needle. He cried : " Who is there 
desirousof merit ?" The Lord said he wanted merit. The Bhikshu, won- 
dering, said, " wonderful! wonderful ! the Lord, who is a great Buddha 
himself, still thirsts after merit." The Lord replied, there was a king, 
Sibi by name, who gave different parts of his body for the benefit of 
small animals. To Indra he gave his eyes. At this, Indra granted 
him the Bodhi knowledge. 

XXXY. — A king of Benares had a Taksha for his spiritual guide. 
The Taksha demanded for his food the flesh of the king's son. After 
much lamentation the king submitted to his demand. The cruel 
Taksha then wanted to devour the queen. She'too was sacrificed for the 
gratification of the spiritual guide. Then the king had to offer his ownself 
a victim to the unappeasable appetite of the Taksha. When the king 
had already promised his own body, the Taksha taught him the follow- 
ing verse — " Gf-rief is always caused by our dear ones ; we fear for their 
mishap. He who has none to love has none to fear or to grieve for." 
The king, in meek submission, said, " Do, Oh lord, as you like with my 
body." But he was agreeably surprised to find the Taksha transformed 
into Indra, who held the prince in one, and the queen in the other, hand, 
and restored them to the king. 

Bhikshus ! I am that king, Auanda is the son, and Tas'odhara 
is the queen. 



28 

XXXVI.— Buddha, when preaching the doctrine of filial love and 
ohedience, narrated the following story by way of illustration : 

" When Maitrakanyaka was a mere child, his father, a rich mer- 
chant of S'ravasti, went to sea and died by shipwreck. On arriving at 
majority Maitrakanyaka enquired of his mother about the profession 
of his father in order that he may betake to it. His mother, unwilling 
to tell the truth, lest she should lose her son too in the sea, deceived 
him by saying his father was a menial servant. 

" Maitrakanyaka took to that profession, and earned four karshapa- 
nas. Next he turned a dealer in spices, and gained eight kSrshapanas. 
On the first day of his career as a gold merchant he obtained 16 k^rshapa- 
nas, on the second 32. All these earnings he made over to his mother. 
But on being apprised of the true profession of his father, he determined 
to start on a nautical expedition, and when his mother, with tears in her 
eyes, came to dissuade him from his purpose, he kicked her, and bid her 
be gone. At sea, a sea-monster (Makara) broke his vessel to pieces. He 
saved himself on a plank, and wandered in a state of utter destitution 
in the city of Ramanaka. He was, however, taken up and hospitably 
entertained by four Apsarasas, with whom he remained for several years. 
Then travelling southward he was met by a company of eight 
Apsarasas. By them he was whirled in a giddy round of pleasures for 
years together. Travelling again in the same direction he fell in with a 
band of sixteen Apsarasas, who also tried their best to make him happy. 
On the fourth time he was welcomed by a troop of thirty-two Apsarasas, 
who too spared no pains to make him joyous. These enjoyments he 
derived as a reward for having made over his earnings to his mother. 
But on the fifth time he happened to find himself in a city of iron. 
On entering it, a big burning iron wheel began to revolve over his 
head, from that time blood and pus became his only food. In this man- 
ner he remained there for sixty-nine thousand years. These pains were 
owing to his kicking and disobeying his mother. Then he determined 
to hold that iron wheel on his head for ever, that others may not suffer 
the same pains. Just at this charitable thought the wheel went up seven 
times the distance of the nether region and left him free. 
"I am, Bhikshus! that Maitrakanyaka." 

XXXVII. — The Lord persuaded by his lectures the son of a rich 
banker to go to a hermitage, and lead a solitary life, unknown to the 
public. The Bhikshus enquired of the Lord the reason for this. The 
Lord said : — 



29 

In day8 of yore, . there lived in a mountain-cave a sage with no 
other companion than a hare. The hare, coming to know, one day, that 
the sage was about to leave the place on account of a draught, 
requested him to postpone his departure till the next morning. The 
sage consented. The hare kindled a fire and was on the point of jump- 
ing into it, when he, out of love to the poor creature, promised 
to stay there even at the risk of his life. The hare, well pleased, turned 
his eyes towards heaven, and prayed Indra for rain. Forthwith there 
was a heavy shower of rain. The sage asked the favor of becoming 
the hare's disciple, when it should attain the rank of a Buddha. 

The Lord said, " I am that hare, and the banker's son is that sage." 

XXXYIII.-^The Lord made no distinction as to proper and impro- 
per times in preaching the truths of religion. One day he preached while 
cleansing the Jetavana with a broom in hand. The Bhikshus admired 
his unwearied labour in the cause of truth. The Lord said :^ 

" Subhashitagaveshi, the son of Brahmadatta, ascended the throne 
of Benares, and ordered his ministers to search for good news [subha- 
shita or gospel]. Indra, in the disguise of a Taksha, brought him one. 
On the king's asking for a second, the false Yaksha made the king's 
falling or jumping into a fiery ditch heated by burning fire for seven 
days and nights, a condition of telling it. The king abdicated his 
throne in favour of his son, and, coming to the brink of the fiery lake, 
jumped into it. Forthwith it was filled with cold limpid water. 
Indra throwing ofi his disguise, taught him the following Gatha : 

" ' Walk in the path of duty ; do good to your brethren ; and work 
no evil unto them. He, who confers a benefit upon a man, is lodged 
comfortably both here and in the next world.' 

" Bhikshus, I am that Subhashitagaveshi." 

XXXIX. — One day the Lord entered the city of S'ravasti with his 
alms-dish in hand. A Brahman, approaching him, drew a circle round 
where he stood, and cried, " Gautama, you should not cross this line 
until you have counted down five hundred karshapanas to me." The 
Lord, seizing this opportunity to point out that good and evil deeds never 
go unrequited, obeyed the Brahman. The news of this event went round 
the city. Many, even gods, offered their purses to the Lord's service ; 
but he accepted none. At last when Anathapindada paid his ransom, he 
made no objection. The Bhikshus asked, if Anathapindada owed the 
Brahman the money just paid. The Lord said, " The eldest son of 



30 

Brahmadatta went to his villa in the spring. There the minister's son 
played at dice with another, betting five hundred karshapanas. He lost 
the wager ; but did not pay the man as he ought to have done. I am 
the king's son, Anathapindada, the minister's son, and this Brahman 
is the winner at the play." 

XL. — The Lord, while residing in the Gymnasium of Kus'i, ordered 
Ananda to raise a platform commencing from the north, saying, that was 
the day for his nirvana. Subhadra, a traveller of Kus'i^ had obtained 
supreme felicity from the Lord's teaching. From Subhadra the athletes 
of the place obtained the religion of Buddha. While lying on that plat- 
form the Lord revealed to the Bhikshus the following story, showing his 
relation with Subhadra and the athletes of the place. 

" A certain king tracked a herd of deer in a cave, and aimed at 
them. The lord of the herd jumped into an impetuous stream and 
ferried over on his back one by one the deer. He did not rest un- 
til all were on the other side, although in so doing he was scratched all 
over by the hoofs of his burden, and blood flowed copiously from his 
back. I am that lord of the herd, Subhadra one of the herd, and the 
athletes are the other members of the flock." 

The Bhikshus then enquired about the merits of Subhadra which 
raised him to such an eminence. While Lord Kas'yapa was on his way 
to nirvana, his nephew As'oka was living at a great distance. Unable 
to see his dear uncle in his last moments, As'oka gave vent to loud 
lamentation. A silvan deity, taking compassion on the boy, carried 
him to Kas'yapa by his power as a god. There both of them obtained 
valuable lectures from the Lord. The sylvan deity became an Arhat. 
Now he personates Subhadra. 

XLI. — When the Lord was in the bamboo grove, Maudgalyayana 
and S'ariputra, moved by the sight of the dreadful sufferings of a ghost, 
enquired its cause from the Lord. The Lord said : " A consumptive 
Buddha was advised by his physicians to use sugarcane juice. He 
entered the house of a rich banker of S'rdvasti, and begged of him for 
some of the juice. The banker ordered his servant to see the Lord sup- 
plied. The wicked servant half filled a vessel with urine, then poured 
a quantity of sugarcane juice into it, and presented it to the Lord. 
For that one misdeed, the servant suffers this torture." 

XLII.— .Maudgalyayana enquired the cause of the terrible torture 
of a ghost, whom he saw convulsed with pain at the cremation ghat. The 



31 

Lord said: "When the Lord Kas'yapa was at Benares, the wife of a 
house-holder was very ill-natured. A beggar one day asked alms of her. 
She bound him hand and foot to a prop, and gave him a good thrashing. 
She now suffers for her sins." 

SLIII. — On another occasion the Lord gave the following account 
of the sufferings of a ghost. 

When the Lord Kas'yapa was at Benares, a Bhikshu asked a palm- 
ful of water from a girl who was carrying a pitcher of water. She re- 
plied " Even if you die, Bhikshu, I won't grant you a drop." It is she 
who now suffers. 

XLIV. — The history of another ghost who was at Grridhrakuta as 
given by the Lord is this — 

Advised by physicians to take sweetmeats, a Buddha entered the 
house of a rich Brahman. The Brahman charged his wife with the 
entertainment of the lord, ^he gave him a dish of night-soil co- 
vered over with rice. She now feels the consequences of her wicked 
act. 

XLV. — While the Lord was residing at Eajagriha, there were five 
hundred who hovered over the city in whirls. They fell in with Maud- 
galyayana on his way to the city, and addressed him thus : — 

" Know, holy man, we were five hundred bankers of Eajagriha. 
We gave no alms, we threw impediments in the ways of other's charity, 
and we accused innocent persons of holding communion with evil 
spirits. The result is, that we suffer infernal torture. We have our 
relatives in the city. Will you, holy man, request them to feed the lord 
Buddha for our sake. Thereby alone can we escape these torments." 
The relatives complied with their request. The Lord preached the trans- 
cendental doctrines of his faith, and the ghosts were ghosts no more. 

XLVI. — The mother of Uttara, a shopkeeper of S'ravasti, was very 
miserly and ill-natured. After her death Uttara turned a hermit. The 
spectre of his mother appeared before him, and revealed to him her 
terrible sufferings. Uttara wept bitterly, for he loved his mother tender- 
ly, feasted the Lord with rich viands and rescued his suffering mother. 

XL VII. — Ananda enquired one day the reason why a goblin, 
which he had seen, suffered so tremendously. The Lord said, " Lord 
Kas'yapa preached at Benares. Induced by his lecture a banker's daugh- 
ter forsook the pleasures of the world. But her education was defective. 
She became conceited, she contemned the learned, and shut her eyes from 



32 

the wise. For these three reasons, she became a hobgoblin ; bad smell 
issued from her body, and she lost the use of her eyes.'' 

XL VIII.— A banker of S'ravasti, though a follower of the Lord, died 
very conceited owing to the defect of his training. When the Bhikshus 
disposed of his dead body, they found him transformed into a 'goblin. 
They requested the Lord to preach for the benefit of the conceited ghost. 
The banker ghost, by training his mind, rose to the chiefship of the 
spirits. In this form he still used to come to listen to the Lord's edify- 
ing speeches. He obtained great power ; the odour of his body rose su- 
perior to that of all flowers. 

XLIX. — Here is the reason of another ghost's terrible suffering as 
given by the Lord. 

A banker had two wives. They were jealous of each other. One of 
them was in the family-way, the other contrived to mix a quantity 
of noxious drugs with the food of her rival. The miscarriage, as de- 
signed, took place. The guilty wife then swore before her relatives, " If 
I have had any hand in this foul deed, let god turn me to a ghost that 
eats her own son." She has now been turned to a suffering spirit. 

L. — The miracle of Jambala, vide p. 12. 

LI. — A rich banker of S'ravasti was very miserly. He heaped his 
gold in his garden where he lived. After his death, a black serpent, at 
whose very sight men lost their lives, took possession of the heap. 
Bimbisara, the king, knowing this, solicited the Lord for the discipline 
of the serpent. The Lord preached before the serpent and converted 
him. He became a Devaputra. 

LII. — A Brahman's son, Chandra by name, lived close to the 
premises of Anathpindada, with whom he often went to hear the Lord 
preach. Dying a premature death, he became a Devaputra. One day 
the Devaputra found a Brahman in the cremation ghat bewailing the 
Joss of an only child who still lay lifeless in his lap. In the disguise 
of a Eishi the Devaputra consoled the mourning father, and induced him 
fco receive the lessons of fortitude from Buddha. By him he was 
initiated to the true faith. This Brahman was the adulterer of Benares 
(p. 14). Chandra was his son. The adulterer's son saved his father's 
life when he was sentenced to death as a thief by sacrificing his own 
life. 

LIII. — A banker's daughter covered the Lord, when entering the 
city to receive alms, with three s^l flowers. Then she climbed up a tree 



33 

for more of them. She fell dowa dead, and was instantly transformed 
into a Devaputri. She listened to the Lord's preachings and, " tearing 
the mountain of this existing body with the adamantine weapon of 
knowledge, obtained the fruit of being furnished with ears." 

LIV. — Eaja Bimbisara, receiving the knowledge of truth from the 
Lord, h,ad built a big stupa over the Lord's nails and hairs in his 
zenana, and his maids cleansed the place every day. When Ajata- 
s'atru obtained the throne by parricide, he prohibited the females to 
sweep the stupa on pain of death. S'rfmati, a female slave, caring not 
at all for her life, washed it neatly and lighted it with a row of lamps. 
The king, in great rage, ordered her to the place of execution. After her 
death, she, as a Devaputri, appeared before the Lord in the Bamboo 
Grove, and, " cleaving the mountain of human misery by the thunder- 
bolt of knowledge," obtained all that is desirable. 

LV. — Anathapindada obtained permission from the king to solicit 
alms for the Lord, for the benefit of the whole population of the city. 
On an elephant rode the patriarch, receiving metallic vessels, bracelets 
and other ornaments as alms from his neighbours. A poor woman, who 
had an only cloth, threw it over the elephant from behind a hedge. 
The beggar knew instantly what the matter was, and bestowed on her 
rich presents. She went to the Lord and received the knowledge of 
truth from him. 

LVI. — When Buddha was putting up at S'rdvasti, RSja Bimbisara 
of Rajagriha grew impatient at his absence. The omniscient Lord, per- 
ceiving this, started for Rajagriha at once. But he was detained for one 
night by the entreaties of a parrot in a forest. Apprized of the Lord's 
residence in the wood by the intelligence furnished by the parrot, Bim- 
bisara, followed by the whole court, came out to receive him. Every one 
was highly delighted by the Lord's lectures. The parrot, fixing his 
mind on the Lord, died and turned a Devaputra. From heaven he 
regularly attended the Lord's teaching, and thus " cleaving the bond 
of human misery by the sharp knife of knowledge," obtained the highest 
bliss. 

LVII. — While the Lord was at Rajagriha, Andthapindada reques- 
ted the king Bimbisara to send an ambassador to the Lord, inviting him 
to S'ravasti. He preached at that city. The messenger fixing his 
mind &c. 
5 



34 

LVIII. — Journeying through different countries, the Lord entered 
a piece of forest where dwelt five hundred herds of buffaloes. A wicked 
animal ran at the Lord. To avoid the danger he created five lions. The 
buffalo fell submissively at the Lord's feet. The Lord took pity on the 
poor creature, taught him the sublime truths of the Buddhist faith. All 
impressions, he said, are transient, the soul has no attributes, the peace 
is nirvana. The buffalo became a Devaputra, &e. 

LIX. — Devaputra Upanshada obtained the fruit of being fur- 
nished with ears by constantly attending the Lord in the Jetavana grove 
with five hundred of his men. 

The Lord gave the following story to his Bhikshus, pointing out 
the merits of the fortunate god. In this very Kalpa Kas'yapa Buddha 
lived at Benares. Eaja Krika, in a splendid procession, proceeded 
to pay a visit to the Lord. The Brahmans, burning with the ambi- 
tion of becoming as great as Krika, asked the Lord to point out to 
them a way by which they could obtain all they desired. The Lord 
said, " By the holy fast called Ashtanga." They kept the fast. One 
was successful, he was born the son of Krika. Another, failing, became 
a serpent. Hot sand fell incessantly on his body and tortured him 
greatly. He again kept the fast, and was this time more happy in 
the result. His next existence was as the son of. a god. This Upan- 
shada was the serpent. 

LX. — Haiisajdtaka miracle, given in the Bodhisattva Avadana. 

LXI. — Suvarnabha, or the golden-coloured, the son of a rich S'akya, 
frequented the pipul-tree grove. In pursuance of the Lord's teaching 
he betook himself to a hermitage and attained the rank of an Arhat. 
The Lord said, in the ninety-first mundane period a Buddha, Vihas'yi by 
name, lodged in the capital of Baudhumat. After he attained nirvana 
the ESja raised a stupa to his honor. A householder, finding a golden 
coloured image in the stupa, ornamented it with earrings, and prayed for 
having a Buddha for his preceptor, and becoming as beautiful as the 
golden image itself has that householder been born as Suvarndbha. 

LXII to LXXI. — All relate to men who attained Arhatships for 
their merit in ornamenting, clearing, and repairing the stupa dedicated 
to the sage Vipasyi at the city of Bandhumati. 

LXXII. — A citizen of S'rdvasti had a daughter, Supriydby name; 
she was Jatismara, or one who remembered the history of her past exis- 
tences. She chanted gathas as soon as she was bom. In her time the 



36 

country was stricken by a famine, but she feasted the Lord and the 
legion of his Bhikshus with food procured by the power of working 
miracles. By the persuasion of the Lord she turned a hermit, and be- 
came an Arhat. 

The Lord said, " In this very Bhadraku Kalpa she was the maid- 
servant of a rich banker. Lord Kas'yapa was then at Benares. The 
banker, her master, went with a full supply of provision to his country- 
seat ; from his store she bestowed a large quantity on the Lord and 
was approved by the banker. Her fortune in this existence she owes to 
her good deeds in her past." 

LXXIII. — S'ukla was the only daughter of a rich S'akya at Kapi- 
lavastu. Many a prince sought the hand of the rich and beautiful 
heiress. Unwilling to marry she obtained her father's permission to 
betake herself to a hermit's life. She gradually rose to be an Arhat. 

The Lord said, S'ukla in her former existence in this very Kalpa, 
entered Pravrajya at the instance of Kas'yapa. 

LXXIY. — Soma, the daughter of a rich Brahman at S'ravasti 
could remember all she heard. Having become a hermit, she rose to 
be an Arhat. Her history was that in her former existence she forsook 
the world at the command of Kas'yapa. 

LXXV. — On the day of Girivalgu-Saiigama, a festival held at 
S'ravasti, people crowded from all quarters to the city. Among others 
came KubalayS, a natch girl, from the Dakshin^patha. She asked if 
there was any in the city that could surpass her in beauty. Being re- 
plied " Grautama, a S'ramana," she instantly repaired to the Jetavana, 
and there displayed her charms before the Lord. But by a miracle the 
Lord destroyed all her beauty, and turned her into a hideous old hag. 
She fell at the Lord's feet, and he gave her true knowledge. 

The Lord said, Kas'isundara, the son of a Benares king, practised 
austerities in a secluded grove on the Himalaya. A Kumar girl fell 
in love with him, and endeavoured to seduce him by her charms. 
Finding him proof against her fascination, and mortified at the neglect 
of one she loved, she became a disciple of the great Kas'yapa. That 
Kumar girl is this Kubalaya. 

LXXVI. — The daughter of Brahmadatta, king of Benares, refused 
to give her hand to any in the crowd of princes that paid their court to 
her. At last when Lord Kas'yapa came to live in the Eishipajjtana, 
she sought and obtained instruotion in the Bodhi knowledge from him- 



36 

Some of her lovers wanted to carry her off by force. But she rose to the 
sky, and there displayed such miraculous power, that they all despaired 
of her hand, and went away. 

The Lord said, Kas'isundari ohtained her powers by an intimate 
attachment with Kanaka who flourished in this very Kalpa, 

LXXVII.— Muktamala of S'ravasti was so named from the row of 
pearls with which she was born. She attained Arhatship by attending 
the Lord in company with a daughter-in-law of Anathapindada. 

The Lord said, a banker presented his wife with a pearl necklace. 
The wife gave it to Kas'yapa, who was sojourning in Mrigadava at 
Eishipattana in Benares. Por that merit she was born with a row of 
pearls on her neck. 

LXXVIII.— The Lord was at Eachangala. An old woman, 
hearing from Ananda that the Lord was thirsty, approached him with 
a pitcher full of water. At the sight of the Lord her breast heaved and 
gushed and she felt the affections of a mother. The Lord said, " This 
kind woman was his mother in five hundred of his former existences. 
In one of her former existences she mastered all the mysteries of 
dhyana, acquired the knowledge of proper and improper application 
thereof, and rose to the rank of a female Arhat." 

LXXIX. — While the Lord was at S'ravasti, Prasenajit and Brah- 
madatta quarrelled with each other. During the progress of the war, 
Prasenajit begat a daughter, and Brahmadatta a son. They adjusted 
their differences on condition of their children's marriage with each other. 
Arriving at age KshemS, the girl, expressed her desire of remaining a 
virgin and devoted to the Lord. Her father, alarmed, wrote to 
Brahmadatta to hasten the marriage. But Kshema fled to the Lord for 
protection. He examined her carefully, and, instilling into her the 
knowledge of truth, raised her above the influence of vile passions. 
When the priest was just going to unite the young couple, Kshema rose 
up to the sky where she displayed miracles. She came down thence, 
and with the permission of her father betook to hermitage. The Lord 
said, Kshema in this very Bhadraka Kalpa delighted Lord Kas'yapa and 
obtained the boon of becoming the first among female disciples. 

LXXX. — Yirupdvadanam. Given in the Bodhisattva Avadana. 

LXXXI. — Samudravadanam. Ditto, 

LXXXII. — A householder of S'ravasti had the mortification of 
finding all his children die as soon as they were born. He feasted the 



37 

Lord one day, and promised if his next child lived to devote him to the 
Lord's service. His next born was a long-lived one. The householder 
kept his word. Sumana, the boy, soon attained Arhatship under the 
edifying lectures of the benign Buddha. 

The Lord said, the high position of Sumana is due to his merit 
in feasting the Lord Vipas'yi, and in decorating the stupa raised over his 
tooth and nails. 

LXXXIII, — For granting two dinars at the stupa of Vipas'yi the 
donor, Hiranypani a gambler, was born at S'ravasti, with two dinars 
always in hand; when the coins were removed they were instantly 
replaced by others. He frequented the Lord's dwelling, and easily 
attained the high position of an Arhat. 

LXXXIV. — When the Lord was at S'ravasti the queen of Prase- 
najit gave birth to a son clad in the ochre vestment of an Arhat. No sooner 
was he born than he enquired whether the Lord was in that city. At 
the tender age of seven he was raised to the dignity of an Arhat. 

The Lord said. When the son of Krika (vide supra LIX) wanted 
the permission of his parents to enter a hermitage, they made him 
promise his return after he had finished the study of the ' three recep- 
tacles.' He came back and taught his parents. He obtained Arhatship 
which he so richly merited. 

LXXXV. — ^A pair of Tas'omitra's teeth oozed out continuous streams 
of water. By frequenting the Jetavana he obtained Arhatship. 

The Lord said, in one of his former existences Yas'omitra, after 
entering the hermitage, supplied an old Bhikshu and his followers with 
water for a thousand years. The boon which he secured made him what 
he was now. 

LXXXVI. — Just as the Lord landed at S'ankas'ya, Upapldika, a 
Bhikshu, received him with great honor. The Bhikshu was admitted 
into the rank of Arhats. 

The Lord gave the following account of his merits — Five Bhik- 
shus obtained true knowledge from Vipas'yi. One of them is this 
Upapadika. 

LXXXVII. — Sobhita, the son of a rich S'akya at Kapilavastu, be- 
taking himself to the hermitage, obtained Arhatship. 

The Lord said, " In Bhadraka Kalpa, Raj a Sobhita erected a 
stupa over the hair and nails of Krakachehhanda in his own capital, 
Sobhavati. On a festive occasion a brotherhood of friends proceeded 



38 

to strew flowers on the stupa. Sobhita, refusing to take part with 
them, was expelled from the company. Deeply mortified, he afterwards 
made sufficient amends for his misconduct. In another existence he 
obtained the favor of Kas'yapa, and, entering a mountain cave, cleansed 
the courtyard of a Buddhist stupa. 

LXXXVIII. — Kapphina, the young king of Dakshinapatha, had 
18,000 young courtiers. Proud of this strong body of supporters, he 
insolently commanded the lords of six cities, S'ravasti, &c., to appear 
before him. They, in alarm, took refuge with the Lord. The Lord, in the 
following terms, challenged Kapphina to come and fight : " If you are 
standing do not sit, come with as much speed as you can." By wafting 
his magic wand aloft, he suddenly brought into existence an innumer- 
able array of veterans of which he took the lead in royal robes. But 
"when Kapphina was about to engage, a voice from heaven declared 
" Obey the command of Buddha," and he changed his mind. The Lord 
instructed him in the Bodhi knowledge, and raised him to the rank ot 
an Arhat when he departed this world. 

The Lord said, " A merchant of Bandhumati feasted Lord Vipas'yi 
and founded a Vih^ra for him in the 71st mundane period. This very 
man in his other existence as Brahmadatta, king of Benares, gave 
wholesome diet to a Pratyaka Buddha who was ill, and raised a stupa 
to his honor. For these merits he obtained Arhatship when living as 
Kapphina, king of Dakshinapatha. 

LXXXIX. — A warder of a fort at Benares once snatched a quantity 
of food from a girl, and subsequently, putting himself to much suffering 
from want of food, gave it all to a Pratyeka Buddha. The Buddha 
showed him miracles. The man on his knees begged instruction in 
true knowledge, which was granted him. Born at S'ravasti, this man 
was named Bhadrika. He obtained Arhatship from S'akyamuni. 

XC. — When the Lord sojourned in a grove in the country of Sthula 
Koshtaka, that country was under the rule of a king named Koravya. 
His brother's son, Bashtrapala, was a handsome youth, endowed with 
perfection in every limb and feature. While roaming about in the grove 
one morning he beheld the Lord proceeding with his followers to the 
city to collect alms. The signs of greatness on the person of the Lord 
made a strong impression on the susceptible mind of the youth, who 
fell at his feet, and solicited conversion. The Lord, however, declined 
to comply with the request until the youth should obtain the permission 



39 

o£ his parents. This was, however, not easy of attainment, as his parents 
and their relatives and friends did not approve of the plan of the youth. 
The youth, however, was resolute, and his importunity prevailed. He got 
the permission, was duly ordained, and raised to the rank of an Arhat. The 
congregation was surprised at this, and begged of the Lord to explain 
how it was that Rashtrapala, a youth born in a royal family and possess- 
ing no preliminary training, should at once become an Arhat. The 
Lord replied that this was due to the accumulated deserts of good works 
done by him in former lives. Once on a time the king of Videha, defeated 
by his enemy, repaired to the wilderness, and, roaming about in great 
distress from thirst, met a Buddha, and sought his protection. This 
protection was duly accorded, and the king regained his metropolis and 
worshipped the Lord for three months, after which he begged that he may 
be able to acquire true knowledge. That king is now Rashtrapala and 
earns the fruit of his good work. This explanation, however, did not 
suffice to satisfy the audience. The feeling seemed to be that the work 
was not enough for so high a reward as Arhatship. The Lord, therefore, 
continued. Again in the kalpa when human life extended to twenty- 
thousand years the Lord Kas'yapa sojourned in the Deer Park near Benares. 
At that time Benares was under the rule of Krika, a pious king, under 
whose just administration the country prospered in every way, abounding 
in men, animals, good crops, and flourishing commerce. The youngest 
son of this king paid a visit to the Deer Park at Rishipatana, and beheld 
the Lord impressed with 32 great signs and 80 minor indications of 
greatness, and resplendent with glory more brilliant than a thousand 
suns put together. Deeply impressed by the sight, he fell at the feet of 
the Lord, and, sitting aside, listened respectfully to the religious dis- 
course which the Lord delivered. He then sought conversion, and Lord 
Kas'yapa was satisfied, and when the prince and his relatives sought his 
protection he had them duly converted. The prince planted an umbrella 
in honour of the Lord. That prince has now been born as Rdshtrapala. 
" Again, Bhikshus, there lived in former times in the city of Benares a 
poor Brahman, who lived on tubers (MuliJca Brdhmana) . In order to 
collect tubers he used to repair to the top of a hill. On one occasion he 
there met a Pratyeka Buddha in distress, and did everything he could to 
relieve the distress by offering him all such refreshments as he could 
command. The Pratyeka Buddha benefitted greatly by his attention, 
and offered him a boon for his good deeds. The Brahman begged that 



40 

he may be devoid of all human passions, and his prayer was immediately 
granted. And the person who then was a poor Brahman living on 
roots is now horn as prince Rashtrapala. In his former existences he 
had undergone many trials and sufferings in the cause of true religion, 
to which he was always attached, and in return for it he is now born in a 
royal family and is endowed with so much personal beauty. And the 
ultimate reward of his devotion is that he is now come face to face with 
Arhatship, and acquired perfection in it. This shows that you should 
always avoid black acts, and betake to white ones which are sure at one 
time or other to bestow on you their much prized reward." The Bhik- 
shus were greatly delighted by this narration. 

This is substantially the same with the story of the king of the 
Kaurava race which occurs in the As'oka Avadana {ante page 14) . 

Beginning. sisiq^^Jflt^it "TO*t? ^h ^^\ W[^\■^f ^?§itT fllfsifr: ^f's^i xj^f» 

End. ^iJi^TiiTfiflirg^ ftr^ti w^i^rrr wrficrnsisrs^jj i 

Colophon. T«'i^^rsr3i»r% ^^^ 's^isfjir^r ^witit i ^M\i ^T^TsiTnirqi i fj^ 

TTan«f iiPa« ^m ^JTT "w^ ^vT^J(•. a 



41 

No. B. 38. 
APARIMITATTJE-DHA'RANP. 

Substance, Nepalese paper of a yellow colour, 7x3 inches. Folia, 22. 
Lines on each page, 5. Extent in s'lokas, 190. Character, Newari. Appear- 
ance, old. Prose. Generally correct. 

A mystic mantra and the praise thereof as a means of promoting 
longevity. The work professes to have heen related hy Buddha him- 
self, when sojourning at the Jeta Grove near S'ravasti, to Manjusri. 
The mantra consists of the following words : 

" Om, salutation to the Bhagavat ; to the sovereign of endless life, 
wisdom and unfailing glory ; to the Tathagata ; to the Arhat ; to the 
perfect Buddha ; thus, Om, to the soul of the virtue of virtues, the 
great virtue, the measureless virtue, the knowledge of measureless load 
of virtue ; and Om, to the possessor of all purified and pure duty ; to 
him who can rise to the sky ; to the scion of the naturally pure and 
righteous race, may this be propitious." 

This sentence is repeated a hundred times, and he who recites it, 
or writes it, or causes it to be written, or keeps it written in his house, 
or hears it recited, or promulgates it, or worships it with offerings of 
flowers, incense, aromatics, garlands, unguents, clothes, parasols, flags, 
bells, standards ; or wears it on his person, is said to receive the full 
measure of human life. The work is reckoned among the simple 
Sutras ; but it is obviously a charm intended to be worn as an amulet, 
and must be of a comparatively recent date, — an imitation of the Hindu 
charms of Tantric origin. 
Beginning. \^ siii: ^^J^T^ I ^^^^^^^ ^w^^f^T.^fl^ ^jri^^it?^ ft'fTfw ^ 

!w«i^ m I ^% i^=5fti ^qfT^T^ ^qfcftwjir^^'^T sire t^t^i^i-^- 

6 



42 

^T^TT. q^qraifTJlfd asiT U^ ^Kf^^ffT ^r^P^^ffT ipq^T'T^jfiT 

^ffi ii sa^ «^^! ^=5?r^^T'^qprfflrrr?mTTgfgfsif'gfi%wn;T5f^ 

iTWJIH^ vrTflTSTTT^Slrr ^TWf^ '^Kf^^Pfl ^T^f^I^TfT rf^l'JiraT^- 

End. f^fl^i-^^ ^ji^ttttwtt^ fw^^^ f Tf«ig^r ^i^TW^^r: gi '^ g^^rwfil 

Colophon. ^IJqTTftf'IrrT'^^TTI^I^'sfi ^TfTHT I 



No. B. 40. 
BHADEAKALPA AVADANA. 



Substance, Nppalese paper, 15f X 5 inches. Folia, 23. Lines on a 
page, 8. Exbent in s'lokas, 7,110. Character, Newari. Appearance, old. 
Verse. Incorrect. 

Thirty-four legends on moral subjects, related by Jayas'ri in reply 
to a query of Jinas'ri who wished to know some of the anecdotes related 
by TJpa Gupta, to his royal pupil As'oka. The scene of the second 
narrative was the Bodhimanda of Buddha Graya, and that of the first 
the Kukkuta Garden referred to in the As'oka Avadana. 

Upagupta opens his narrative thus : — " When the Lord, after 
having obtained what he desired, thought of returning home, all the 
gods began to sing hymns in his praise. He taught them the sublime 
truths of his religion." 

I. The first story is that of Tas'odhar^, the forsaken wife of 
Buddha. Suddhodana's nephew, Devadatta, having been repulsed in 
his advances for her love, became her deadly enemy, and plotted several 
times to take her life. He accused her before his uncle, alleging that, 
unless she lives in guilt, how is it that when others become mothers in 
ten months from their first conception, she should remain big for eighteen. 
The king did not give credit to these allegations. Then he induced the 



43 

king to abdicate in his favour for twenty-one days, promising at the 
end of that period to fetch his son Buddha back to him. During these 
twenty-one days he tried every means in his power to put an end to 
Tasodhara's life. He threw her into a tank ; but she was protected and 
sent to her father by the king of serpents who happened to be there at 
the time. This tank was long celebrated as Gopatirtha from another 
name of Tasodhara. Thrown into a blazing fire she was miraculously 
protected by the coldness which the fire suddenly assumed. Precipi- 
tated from a high hill, she was saved by the kindness of a big monkey. 
At the expiration of the appointed time Devadatta, unable to fulfil his 
promise, was imprisoned by the king ; but he was soon after released 
on the intercession of Tasodhara. 

At the end of six years Tasodhara gave birth to a child as ugly as 
ugly could be. He was named Vir^pa. Envious Devadatta taunted 
Virupa, by saying, " "Virupa, do you know your father's name ? 
Buddha is gone these twelve years and you are at the age of six." Ta- 
sodhara consoled her son by saying, " Tour father is gone in the search 
of a desire-fulfilling elixir. He will soon return, and change your ugli- 
ness into beauty. Do not believe in what envious Devadatta says to 

you." 

II. After a stay of six years at Dharmadvipa, Lord Buddha 
presented himself at Benares with five of his followers. His residence 
was at Mrigadava in Eishipatana. There was at this time a band of 
thirty " sons of Belial" who revelled in all manner of licentiousness. 
One of them lost his mother Bhadrangi who, in company with gods, 
came one day from the regions of bliss to hear the Lord's lecture. Bha- 
drangi found.these wicked people following two women of bad character ; 
she found one of them, Kas'ikA going away, and took this opportunity of 
correcting the gay lotharios. She presented herself before them in the 
guise of KSs'ika, and gradually and artfully led them to the Mrigadava. 
There she prayed the Lord to bring these wicked young men to the right 
path. Immediately after she rose to the sky, and thence said : " If 
you are to come to me worship Tattagata, and renounce the path of 
evil." Following Bhadr^ngi's advice, they proceeded to the Lord, who 
instructed them in his faith, and touched them with his right hand. 
Forthwith, their heads were miraculously shaved, and their garments 
miraculously changed into yellow rags. They were then sent by the 
Lord as apostles of his faith. They travelled from place to place in the 
guise of students (Brahmacharis), preaching the Buddhist gospel. 



44 

III. A company of professional saorificers of Benares, who were 
absent on a sacrifice at Yrinda, returned and found thirty old vaga- 
bonds reclaimed. They immediately placed themselves under the 
Lord's tuition. The chief of the company was Luchira. 

IV. There lived at Kus'alagram, inhabited by the Dronas, one 
Purna, a Brahman, who, induced by a celestial voice, proceeded to the 
Himalaya, and there practised austerities to obtain favours from the 
Lord. He made thirty-four disciples. With these he proceeded to 
the Mrigadava. The Lord touched them with his right hand. Forth- 
with they were transformed into so many Bhikshus. 

Y. TJttara and Nalaka were the two sons of one Jayi, the family 
priest of a king of Tvarkata in the vicinity of Avanti. TJttara was 
versed in all the Yedas. Nalaka was a kind-hearted man ; he wandered 
here and there as a hermit, unmindful of his study. They were both 
sent for their education to their uncle Driti, whose hermitage lay on the 
Yindhya Eange. Driti advised them to proceed to the Lord at Mri- 
gadava, where they were initiated in the duties of silent hermits. 

YI. Sabhika was a great controversialist. His mother was a per- 
fect mistress of the art of disputation. She was educated by a Bhik- 
shuni. She obtained the name of Mahadhi or great intelligence. By the 
merit of her good works she was cured of her bodily deformities for 
which she was exposed on her birth. She married one Yidyakara, only 
because she was defeated in a controversy with him. The fruit of this 
marriage was the great controversialist Sabhika. Sabhika, after having 
silenced all his antagonists, proceeded to Mrigadava to measure his 
powers of ratiocination with the Lord. But on the first sight of that 
great man Sabhika fell on his knees, and begged him for instruction. 
By the Lord's command TJttara gave him the definitions of Sambuddha, 
Arhat, S'ramana, Brahmana, Snataka, Dvija, Yaidika, Vipra, S'rotriya 
Brahmachari, Rishi, Parivrajaka, Muni, Tapasvi, Yati and Yogi. Within 
a short time Sabhika entered the hermitage. 

YII. The story of Jas'odevi. 

YIII. The story of Grihapati Svastika. 

IX. After causing, on his way to Gana, a thousand boatmen to 
renounce the world, the Lord presented himself one day at the hermi- 
tage of the Kas'yapas. There he converted Fulvavilva Kas'yapa, 
Buddha Kas'yapa, Sarit Kas'yapa* and their nephew TJpasena with 

* The names are differently given in other works, UrnTilva occurs for the first, Nadi 
for the second, and Gaya for the third. 



45 

their numerous followers to his own faith. He gave the following 
story of their former lives : 

" Three royal brothers, Indraraja, Sinharaja and Bhadraraja, pro- 
ceeded once upon a time from Kaluga to Hastina, where a Tathagata 
made his appearance, in order to worship him and receive his blessing. 
They invited him to their own kingdom, and on his death raised a Stupa 
to his honour. They begged of him the boon of ever remaining the 
servants of Sugata. They are now born as the Kas'yapas." 

X. Once on a time, on the Lord's entrance into the Dharmaranya, 
seven hundred Eishis explained to him as many different modes of 
worship. The Lord pronounced them all, without exception, to be false. 
He explained to them the sublime truths of his own religion. They 
all obtained Nirvana by accepting his creed. 

XI. Eaja Bimbisara heard one day his family priest teach the 
Dvatrinsat lakshanas, or the 32 signs of Buddhahood. From that 
time he became disgusted with the world, and panted for the knowledge 
of the true faith. Just at this time, the rumour of the Lord's appea- 
rance in the Jatavana grove reached his ears. He resolved on an 
interview with him. Great was his surprise when he found the great 
Eishi K^s'yapa sitting before the Lord, a convert to the Buddhist 
faith. By the Lord's instructions the Raja regained the ease of his 
mind, and entered on a course of virtuous administration of his 
kingdom. 

XII. Sariputra and Maudgalyayana were two foremost teachers 
among the early Buddhists. They were friends from their early boy- 
hood. They were both proficient in all the sciences of their day. The 
real name of Sariputra was Upatishya. He was the last of the seven 
sons of a Brahman, Dharmapati of Naradagrama, near Rajagriha, by his 
only wife Sari. Maudgalayana was the son of Dhanyayana of Kelika, 
a village not far from Naradagrama. He was called Maudgaldyana 
because he was born in the Gotra or clan of the Maudgalayanas. 
They both were converted by the Lord himself, and both soon rose to 
high rank among his followers. Dirghanakha, the maternal uncle of 
Sariputra, envying the Lord's great fame, came boastfully forward to 
silence the Lord by arguments ; but remained one of his most zealous 
partizans to the end of his life. Jeta, a Rishi, and A'nanda his friend 
were at this time made converts. Jeta presented the Lord a Vihara 
which still goes by his name, 

XIII to XXXII. Short stories relating to the conversion of 



46 

various persons to the Buddhist faith by Buddha himself during his 
sojourn in the Jetavana grove. The converts were Kas'yapa, a rioh 
Brahmana, Naradatta the nephew of Asita a Eishi, S'aktf a Brah- 
mani, Padma her friend, seven hundred disciples of Kudraka, 
Rebata a Muni, An^thapindada, Purna and other inhabitants of 
S'ravasti. When going to his hermitage in the Venuvana at Rajagriha, 
he appointed Purna at the head of the Sangha or Charch of S'ravasti. 
While journeying through a forest, Buddha found a gang of robbers 
dividing their booty. The Lord, giving them an equivalent in gold, 
restored the stolen property to its owners. The robbers became his fol- 
lowers, and honoured him greatly when he lived at Rajagriha. 

XXXII. The Bhikshus enquired of the Lord how was it that his 
mother (aunt) Grautami, though blind, was called Sulochana or per- 
fect-eyed ? The Lord gave the following explanation : A big white ele- 
phant was very fond of his mother. He migrated with bis old mother 
from the Himalaya to the Yindhyan forest where provender was easily 
procurable. Finding one day a travelling merchant in great distress, 
the kind animal took compassion upon him, and extricated him from his 
difficulties. That ungrateful wretch informed the king of Benares, who 
was in search of a white elephant, of such an animal being available in the 
Vindhyan forest, a circumstance which led to the poor elephant's being 
tracked and caught. He was conducted to the Royal Menagerie at 
Benares. For weeks together the elephant did not take any food, but 
shed profusion of tears. On being asked the cause he gave vent to his 
filial apprehensions. The king granted him release. He hastened to 
find his old mother, with his heart beating with apprehensions. He 
found her in the forest, blind with tears. On his arrival her eyes 
cleared up, and she got back her sight. I am that elephant, and 
Gautami is the old mother. 

XXXIII. The story of Nalini ; told in the Avadana-kalpalata. 

XXXIV. Invited by his father. Lord Buddha proceeded from Ve- 
nuvana to his capital. The king paid a return visit to bis son at Ve- 
nuvana where he heard many edifying lectures. One of them contain- 
ed the following story : Raja Sudasa of Benares had by a lioness a son 
named Sutasoma. When that son came to the throne he was in the habit 
of eating privately raw human flesh in the prison house. He was expelled 
by the nobles from the throne on account of this habit. Wandering in the 
forests, unattended and alone, he was met by his mother, the lioness, who 
carried him to celebrate a sacrifice of a hundred royal youths. After 



47 

ninety-nine piinces had been secured already, the ex-king went in 
search of Sutasoma whose adventures form the subject of another book, 
viz., Sutasomaj^taka. The Lord said, I am that Sutasoma. 
Beginning. ^ sr^T ^^^?ira i 

End. ■^TOTT g=nf«iT! ^m'sr i»mrwTr*i^r satj: i 

Colophon. TfH 'ii^rsFqr^r^^Tws;^!^ ma^T^^ tr^T^i^^^^ SfT^msjiw srr« 



Old No. 815.— New No. B. 42. 
BODHI-CHAKTAVATARA. 

Substance, palm-leaves, 11 X 2|. Folia 48. Lines on a page, 6. 
Extent in slokas, 1,100. Character, Newari. Date ? Appearance, old and 
smudgy. Verse. Generally correct. 

A philosophical disquisition on the duties appropriate to Buddhist 
monks. The work is in ten chapters. Its author's name is not 
given. It opens with a dissertation on Buddhist disposition {Bodhi- 
chitta). This disposition is of two kinds, one called Bodhi-pranidhi' 
chitta, or desire to acquire the true knowledge, and the other Bodhi- 
prasthdna-chitta, or that disposition of the mind which obtains 
when that knowledge has been acquired. The second chapter treats 
of Ishtopadeshand or devotion to good work. This devotion is described 
to manifest itself in a desire to devote every thing good in this 
world to the worship of Tathagata and his sons. The third dwells on 
three topics, respectively called Punydniimoda, Adhyesand and Ydchand. 
T\x& first is the disposition to virtue, wishing all creation to be free from 
pain and the troubles incident to existence ; the second, supplication to 
all the Buddhas of every quarter for the enlightenment of the minds 



48 

of those who are immersed iu pain ; the third, prayer to Jinas for the 
suppression of all sensuous desires — to wrest the soul from the bondage 
of the flesh. These lead to active benevolence, to the administration of 
medicines to the sick, food to the starving, relief to the poor, and the 
like, — all which promote the disposition to acquire the true knowledge. 
The fourth chapter enjoins the devotion of the mind to the mandates 
of the Buddhas and their sons, whereby alone can liberation from the 
bonds of transmigration be acquired. The fifth is devoted to the means of 
overcoming all sensuous desires. The sixth to perturbations of the mind 
and the propriety of suppressing them, as also the cultivation of for- 
bearance (kshanti-pdramitd) ; and the seventh to active penance ( Virya- 
pdramitd) or the subjugation of the passions by active exertion. The 
longings of the organs of sense and desires having thus been overcome, 
the eighth chapter, enters upon the subject of cogitation {Bhydna-pdra- 
mitd) as to what is good and what is evil. Virtuous actions resulting 
from a desire to benefit one's own self, are described to be vicious, as 
they are prompted by a longing for rewards ; this should be suppressed, 
and good should be done for the sake alone of doing it. Never should 
one proclaim his own merits, nor the demerits of others. Such cogitations 
settle the mind to meditation of that which alone is true. The ninth 
chapter is called Prajnd-pdramitd. It describes the nature of the true 
knowledge, and in doing so, two doctrines are discussed : 1st, Mdydvdda, 
or that which ascribes every thing mundane to Maya or illusion ; and the 
2nd, Sunyatd/vada, or pure nihilism. The last chapter expresses a desire 
that whatever fruits may arise from the discussion and practice of the 
rules set forth in the work, may be to the glory of Buddhist devotion. 

Beginning \^' •m %xm^x^\^^ \ 

^w ^^ sf^sTTnirf'^fiT ^^% WT^f%)^- lirr'B^^ ii 

^r^ «n^ f^r=^^% f%rr Y«r^^ ^^\J^^'. fin: n 
^gti^w^l^fl^ fTai ^Tifi 'U'rej fl'^H ^gn: i 



49 

'rarni^s'^-^ ^w^ %sr 's^ftf f^-ri 5ff^ stttt ^r ^r^ ii 

End. ^^il^^ ft B^mfcr v^ mfri: ^^ \ 



No. B. 15. 
BODHISATTVA AVADi^NA. 



Substance, paper, 15 X 4f . Folia 205. Lines on a page, 9. Extent 
in slokas, 4,784. Character Newari. Date, unknown. Appearance, old. 
Prose and verse. Very incorrect. 

A collection of legends regarding the former lives of the Bodhi- 
sattva. They were related at S'ravasti by the side of the tank Anava- 
tapta, by the Lord Buddha himself, in a series of lectures to his disciples 
■who composed the audience, the subject of the lectures being stories 
illustrating the means of obtaining moksha. After an eulogy on the 
extraordinary powers of Sariputra (Mudgalayana), the Lord gave an 
account of his ten suiferings, (See Bodhisattvavadana-kalpalata,) and 
then recounted a series of stories each of which is called a Jataka. The 
stories relate chiefly to meritorious acts performed by Buddha in his 
previous existences. 

Suhhasa Jataka. In one of his former existences the Lord was a 
king, Suprabhasa by name. He was very irascible, and, in an angry 
moment, severely scolded an elephant driver, who in return spoke to him 
at length on the merits of charity, mercy, forgiveness, &o. This reacted 
on the mind of the king, who gradually began to long for Bodhi know- 
ledge. 

Vydghri Jataka. In one of his numerous existences the Lord re- 
sided on the mount Kulaohala as a hermit. There he found a 'hungry 
tigress looking with a wistful eye at her newborn cubs. To relieve 
the poor creatures from being devoured by their hungry parent, the 



50 

Lord determined to offer his own body to her. He let himself fall 
from a high precipice, to the valley where the tigress was, and expired, 
thereby saving the cubs. 

Sin Jataka. As king of the Sivis the Lord, after bestowing the 
whole of his wealth on the poor, bestowed even his eyes to Indra, who 
begged them of him. Indra, pleased with his munificence, granted him 
heavenly eyes. 

Kulmasapindi Jalaka. Kulmaspindi, king of Kos'ala, was none 
else than the Lord himself. His maxim was that well-timed and well- 
placed charity is always laudable. A gift is never too small. 

8'reslithi Jataka. The Lord was a banker. A Pratyeka Buddha 
came to his door to beg. The wicked Mara prepared a hell ^at the 
door, but the virtuous banker fearlessly passed through the hell, and 
gave his alms. 

Avisahyd s'reshthi Jataka. In the course of an infinite number of 
transmigrations the Lord was once born a rich and munificent banker. 
Indra stole all his property except a scythe for cutting grass and a bit 
of string for tying bundles of grass. The kind man used to gather 
grass, and sell it to relieve his poor neighbours. 

S'as'a Jataka. Once on a time the Lord transmigrated into the 
brute world, and became a hare. He used to lecture on moral subjects 
to two of his friends, one a jackal, the other an ape- Indra demanded 
food of him. Having nothing else to give he jumped into a blazing 
fire, and requested Indra to eat bis roasted flesh. 

Agastya Jataka. The Lord was once born a rich Brahman of the 
name of Agastya. He practised austerities in an island in the Southern 
sea, where Indra used to come and beg the Rishi's food and thereby 
deprive him of the means of sustenance. After four days the Eishi 
died of hunger. 

Maitrihala Jataka. The Lord was once born, a most charitable 
king of the name of Maitribala. He gave away whatever was asked of 
him ; once he gave five portions of his flesh to five Takshas who longed 
for human flesh, and asked it of him. 

Visvambhara Jataka. Yisambhara was the prince of the Sivis. 
He gave away an elephant much esteemed by the Sivis to a Brahman. 
The Sivis complained of this before their king, the Prince's father 
who banished Yisambhara from his kingdom. Yisambhara went to 



51 

the forest with his wife and children. A Brdhman hegged as giffc the 
boys. He was instantly complied with. Indra then demanded 
Visambhara's wife. Her too Visambhara gave away. Afterwards he 
was known as S'^kyamuni. 

Yajna Jdtaka. King Tajna, or Buddha in a former birth, finding 
his kingdom afllicted by a drought, consulted the Brahmans as to the 
remedies for the 'evil. They advised him to perform a sacrifice. The 
king did not relish the idea, because it involved the slaughter of a 
large number of animals. He established alms-houses in every city, in 
every village, and in every street. 

S'aJcra Jdtaka. In one of his previous existences the Lord was 
born as Indra, and when the Devas had to fight with the Asuras his 
prowess alone was sufficient to overpower the enemy. 

Brdhmana Jdtalta. The Lord was born in the family of a Brah- 
man. He went to a Guru who taught him many S'astras. The Guru 
ordered all his disciples to procure the Dakshina — the fees due to a 
guru — by theft. All consented, except that boy. 

Unmadayantf Jataka. The Lord was the king of the Sivis. The 
maddening fairy-like beauty of Unmadayanti, wife of one of his minis- 
ters, captivated his heart. Some of his counsellors advised him to 
possess her by force. But the wicked advice was spurned by the 
king. 

Supdraga Jdtaka. The Lord was named Suparaga. He was a 
clever merchant, and expert man of business. In his old age he, along 
with a number of other merchants, undertook a voyage to trade with the 
inhabitants of a coast named Bharu Kachchha. He, with his whole 
fleet, was one night overtaken by a terrible storm. Suparaga fell on his 
knees and prayed and worshipped Sugata. Instantly the storm blew 
over, the wind was hushed, the sea was calm. The fleet reached safe 
its place of destination, and the merchants enriched themselves by very 
profitable trade. 

Matsya Jdtaka. Buddha was in the course of his transmigrations 
born a fish. He was the lord of all the fishes. He lived in a large an- 
cient pond. He instructed his fellow-creatures by his edifying lectures 
on charity, righteousness, &c. Suddenly one summer the water of 
the tank was on the point of drying out. The fish-king looked to- 
ward the sky, and made a vow, saying, " I will never see the destruction 



52 

of so many of my friends." On this Indra sent a heavy shower of 
rain, and filled the tank with water. 

Vartakapota Jdtcika. Once upon a time a forest was on fire. The 
animals of the forest fled towards every quarter. One crippled, weak, 
wingless bird, unable to fly, solicited Agni to desist from burning. In- 
stantly the fire was quenched. The wingless bird was the Lord himself. 

Kumbha Jataka. In one of his existences the Lord was, under the 
name of Kumbha, king over the Devas. Finding his allies and his 
subjects much addicted to drinking, he rose up to heaven, and thence 
harangued them with the voice of thunder. The subject of course was 
Temperance. 

Aputraha Jdtaha. In another existence, the Lord renouncing the 
vrorld delivered a grand lecture on the transitory character of every- 
thing worldly, in order to rebuke those who re-entered the world after 
adopting the ascetic state. He said — the trouble of maintaining a 
family is a positive hindrance to Mukti. 

Visa Jataka. The Lord was born in the family of a Brahman. 
He had six brothers and a sister. All of them practised austerities. 
They were attended by only one servant girl. She gathered fruits, and 
divided them for the brothers and sister. Indra, for five successive days, 
stole the eldest brother's share, in order to examine the imperturbability 
of his temper. He was a little moved on the first day ; on the second 
he suppressed his hunger ; from the third he had no desire for eating. 

S'reshthi jdtaha. Born in the family of a Brahman, the Lord was 
named S'reshthi. He went to a hermitage. He baffled all the endeavours 
of his friends to bring him back to his home, by showing them by the 
clearest arguments that the highest pleasures are to be had only in a 
hermit's life. 

Buddhahodhi Jataka. The Lord was born in the family of a 
Brahmay. He and his wife renounced the world together. They lived 
in the same forest. One day as the Lord, at the end of his austerities, 
was gathering dust at a beautiful spot, and his wife was repeating the 
meditative formula, in came a young king, who, captivated by the 
beauty of her person, at once ordered his servants to take her into his 
carriage. She cried loudly for help. Then coming to the hermit the 
king found him not the least agitated by the loss of his wife. He 
admired hia firmness, begged his pardon, and restored him his wife. 



53 

Haiina Jdfaka. In the series of existences from the lowest form 
of animalculas to man, the soul of the Lord once entered the external 
cover of a king of the flamingoes who lived at Mansarovar. He had 
a general as generous as himself. Brahmadatta, King of Benares, 
longing to have a sight of this, virtuous pair, caused a splendid tank to 
be dug in the suburbs of his metropolis, which he had beautified at an 
immense cost. He issued a proclamation to the purpose that any bird 
coming to the tank would be perfectly safe. Some of the flamingoes 
■who went to Mansarovar were loud in the praise of the tank at 
Benares, The King of the flamingoes, with his faithful general, resolv- 
ed to pay a visit to the famous tank. But when floating on its waters 
the king bird was caught by men who were kept on purpose by 
Brahmadatta. All his followers fled away at the time of his danger ; 
but his general followed him wherever they led him. Brahmadatta 
seated them on a splendid throne, welcomed them, feasted them, and 
granted them liberty. The flamingo discoursed long on the advantages 
of virtue, and then took his departure. 

Mahdbodhi Jdtaka. Again in another existence the Lord, under 
the name of Mahabodhi, delighted his large audience with religious 
discourses flowing smoothly from his lips. He travelled from country 
to country, visiting many kings, and captivated men's hearts by his 
eloquence, at once soothing and persuasive. He was a hermit of the 
rank of an Acharya. Men flocked to him by thousands. Some of the 
ministers of a King whom he visited warned him to keep a watchful 
eye upon the man. " He is a spy," they said, " come to deceive us by 
the power of his speech." 

The King, thus advised, doubted the honesty of the sage. One 
day when the hermit came to his presence, the King did not salute him. 
The hermit, perceiving this change in the King's conduct, attempted to 
go away. The King said " Where do you go from us. Sir ?" " Tou are 
unfit for religious discourse," was the reply, " I shall go to the forest." 
The King found it was no time then for detecting his knavery. He 
therefore allowed him to go, but requested him to come back after a 
while. The sage assented to this request. After practising in a forest 
four dhyanas and soon obtaining " five experiences," he returned to 
the King's court. 

Many of the ministers came forward to refute the arguments of the 



54 

pious hermit. One of them said : " Who can be the author of the 
color and fragrance of the lotus and the like ? This earth is the result 
of nature (svabhdva) ." Another said — " It is impossible that this 
earth should be the result of an accident, and therefore have the wise 
concluded that it must have proceeded from one who is absolute mind 
and felicity." A third remarked, that the assumption of a single 
cause for objects of various nature resulting from diverse causes, is 
inconsistent. They must proceed from acts performed in previous 
lives, or attempts to do good would never be followed by pain. Another 
was of opinion that " woods of various shapes, colors and qualities could 
not result from the fruits of works performed in former existences ; 
were it so, still woods destroyed do not again become woods, so the dead 
do not come to life again. Therefore we should seek happiness while 
we live." The hermit, perceiving that the King was fond of illustra- 
tions, retired to his hermitage. There, by a miracle, he created a 
large monkey, took out its skin, and made of it a covering for his own 
body, and repaired to the royal presence. Every one accused him 
of killing a monkey, and laughed at his conduct. " Why," asked the 
hermit, " if all this be either natural or brought about by previous 
work, I have done no wrong in killing a monkey." 

After this argument, the King cared very little for the sophisms 
of the philosophers, but placed himself entirely under the guidance 
of the pious hermit. 

Mahdkajn Jataha. The Lord was once born a monkey, dwelling 
in a woody spot by the side of the Himalaya. A man, who had lost 
his way in the forest, while gathering fruits, fell from a lofty tree into 
a deep lake. The monkey, who was close by, rescued him by carrying 
him on its back over the steep precipice. At last weary with toil the 
poor creature fell fast asleep, appointing the man to watch him. The 
man wanted to kill the animal for its meat, and threw a stone at it, in 
order to effect his purpose. The sound of the stone broke the monkey's 
sleep. It found from what quarter it had come. It rebuked the 
man gently, and showed him his way out of the forest. In a short 
time the man died of a loathsome disease. 

Sarahha Jdtaka. A Sarabha was chased by a king on horse- 
back. While crossing a deep ravine the king fell into it. The Sarabha, 
seeing the horse without its rider, immediately perceived what had 



55 

happened, and proceeded directly to rescue the king. This Sarabha 
was Buddha in one of his transmigrations. 

■Ruru Jatalca. A man was carried down by an impetuous stream. 
He cried piteously for help. A golden-colored stag {Ruru) rescued 
him from danger. He made the man promise on no account to dis- 
cover the place of the stag's residence and let him go. 

Meanwhile the queen of the place had dreamt of receiving lectures 
from a stag as brilliant as gold. On receiving the promise of a large 
reward, that very man now betrayed his trust, and showed the king 
where the stag dwelt. 

The king aimed his shaft at the stag. But the animal neared the 
king of his own accord, and asked him who had shewed him the place. 
On finding the man to be no other than he whom he had once rescued, 
the stag told the king of the man's faithlessness. The king wanted to 
kill him, but the stag interposed. The king was highly pleased with 
him, took him home, honored him, feasted him, and received lectures from 
him. He taught the royal family lessons of high importance in the 
true faith. 

The stag was none else than the Lord himself. 

Ka2n Jataka. While bathing in a river a certain king found a 
very delicious fig {Ficus religiosa) floating down the stream. The 
king took it up and wanted to have more. He went high up the stream 
and found a big fig-tree inhabited by monkeys who lived solely on its 
fruits. One of them was seen sending the monkeys off from the sight 
of the royal army. The king, thinking him to be the chief, cut with 
an arrow the branch on which he stood. He declared himself to be the 
king of the monkeys, and discoursed long with the king on man's 
destiny and on virtue, charity, patience, penitence and so on. 

This monkey chief was Buddha himself. 

Kshdnti Jatalca. A hermit practised austerities in a wilderness. 
A king came into that forest with the ladies of his house. One day 
while he slept, the ladies, in the course of their walk, came to the hermit's 
grove. The hermit welcomed them, and extolled the powers of 
righteousness before them. The king, seeing a hermit amidst the royal 
dames, flew at him in \ rage, and cut two of his fingers. Instantly 
he felt a burning fever. The hermit was the Lord Buddha. 



56 

Brahma Jdtaha. Once on a time the Lord, born in the regions of 
Brahma, came down to earth and brought the king of Videha, who 
was ruining himself by associating with low companions, to the path 
of justice and virtue. 

Hasti Jdtaka. An elephant supplied with his own flesh, the food 
to a hundred men who were banished from their houses, and were 
almost dying of hunger. This elephant was the Lord in one of his 
former existences. 

Sutasoma JdfaJca. Subhcishita, a Brahman, was soliciting alms 
from Sutasoma, when suddenly there was a great uproar' in the female 
apartment. Sutasoma, asking Subhashita to wait a little, went into 
the seraglio. King Saudasa {vide Avadana-s'ataka, story 89) got hold of 
him, and carried him away. Sutasoma remembered the promise he had 
made to Subhashita, solicited Saudasa to grant him a moment's leave 
that he may grant some money to the Brahman. After long entreaty 
Saudasa permitted him to go. Sutasoma, after redeeming his promise, 
returned as he had engaged. Saudasa, highly pleased to find the 
prince a man of his word, permitted him to ask four boons. The boons 
Sutasoma asked were the following : — 

That Saudasa should always speak the truth, leave the slaughter 
of animals, liberate all captive princes, and give up eating raw flesh. 

Though reluctant, Saudasa nevertheless granted these boons. 

This prince Sutasoma of the Kaurava dynasty was none else than 
lord Buddha in one of his previous existences. 

Ai/o Jdtaha. A royal youth once obtained permission from his 
parents to proceed to an hermitage. This prince was the Lord. 

Mahisa Jdtaha. A buffalo, though constantly harassed by a wicked 
monkey, did not try to injure him. This buffalo was the Lord. 

S'atapatra Jdtaha. A lion, that had a bone stuck into his throat, 
went to a S'atapatra, who, pitying the sufferings of the lion, took the 
bone out of his throat. The same lion, while devouring a large quan- 
tity of venison, was asked for a bit by the S'atapatra, who was at that 
time very hungry. But the lion gave him nothing. The S'atapatra 
was not the least moved by it. This S'atapatra was the Lord himself. 

After this story follows a few verses enumerating the different 
merits of offering various things to Buddha, as also of reading and 
of hearing read works on the Buddhist religion. 



57 

Beginning, ^f si^s ^'^gsl^^tTfVH'^Mi; i 

End. sjifl ^^ ^^TT f^w^5r*rfflrf ^ft«i ft"^ ^^wi 

'^^^ fg^ft^m^'f ^^^srr m^.m ■«)^^^t 



No. B. 15. 
BODHISA-TTYi^VADi^NA-KALPALATA. 

Substance, yellow paper, lOi X 4^ inches. Folia, 152. Lines on a 
page, 10. Extent in slokas, 3,705. Character, Devanagari. Appearance, 
old. Verse, Very incorrect. 

A Btore-house of legends regarding Buddha's former existences. 
It seems to be partly a sequel to, and partly a poetical amplification 
of, the work noticed under the last preceding No. It is called a ' tree 
yielding whatever is wanted of it,' (kalpalata) and the metaphor is kept 
up in the generic name of its suhdi visions, which are called pallava or 
" leaves," and not adhyayas or " chapters." The codex under notice is 
obviously incomplete, as it commences from the 51st chapter or pallava. 
It appears, however, from the presence of an invocatory verse at the be- 
ginning of the chapter, and the absence of all such invocations at the 
beginnings of subsequent chapters, that the work was divided into two 
parts, of which the first included 50 chapters, and the second 58. Each 
chapter contains a distinct story, illustrating a particular moral maxim, or 
an incidence in the life of the saint. The author of the work was 
Kshemendra, who had the title of Mahdkavi or " the great poet." He 
was probably the same with the author of the Kathd-sarit-sagara, the 
archetype of Somadeva Bhatta's Vrihatkathd. If this identification 
be tenable, the date of the work would be the 5th century of the 
Christian era. 

LI. — Ten Sufferings. Lord Buddha, during his sojourn by the side 
of the tank Anavatapta, while giving an account of the former lives of 
8 



58 

S'ariputra and' Maudgalydyana, illustrated the maxim that " every 
creature must suffer from the effects of his works" bj adverting to the 
ten mundane pains which he suffered. He said : 

(1). " In one of my previous existences, when I had the name 
of Kharvota, I killed my half-brother at the instigation of my wife, 
Kalika : I have an ulcer on the top of my right toe as a consequence. 

(2). " As Arthadatta, a merchant, I killed one of my own calling, 
who was much opposed to my interests. The consequence is, that I 
have suffered from a sore caused by the prick of a catechu thorn. 

(3). "In another existence, as Chapala I threw away, with my 
own hand, the contents of Uparishya's alms-bowl. This Updrishya was 
a Pratyeka Buddha. I have my alms-bowl always empty for that 
outrageous conduct. 

(4). " As Bharadvdja, I falsely charged my elder brother Yas'ishtha 
with holding criminal intercourse with a maid-servant, who was an 
anchorite ; and that is why Sundari has published a similar scandal 
against me in my present existence. 

(5). " As a Yaisya, Mrinala by name, I wanted to live with Bha- 
drd, a public prostitute, on the condition that she should not allow any 
body else to have connection with her. Finding her one day in 
the company of another, in a fit of anger, I killed her. Consequently a 
Bhikshuni has brought a false charge against me in this life. 

(6). " As Manthara, a Brahmana, finding one day my neighbours 
giving a splendid feast to Yipashyi, I railed at them, saying, ' these 
stupid bald-heads should be fed with barley and weavelled kodra ; they 
do not deserve rich viands.' I have now to live upon kodra and 
barley in consequence of these irreverent words. 

(7). " Born in ancient days as Uttara, I spoke ill of one Pudgala. 
I have suffered greatly for it, and had to lead a vicious life for six years 
in the present existence. 

(8). " There was a rich patriarch, Dhanavan by name, in the 
country called Karpata. He had a son named S'riman. Tiktamukha, 
' bitter-faced,' a medical practitioner of the place, cured S'riman of 
various diseases, but obtained nothing for his remuneration. When 
S'riman fell ill again, Tiktamukha put a period to his life by adminis- 
tering a strong poison to him. I was that medical man, and for my 
treacherous conduct to S'riman, I suffer from spermatorrhcea in this life. 



59 

(9). " In another existence, as a fisherman, I took great delight at 
the sight of a large fish under convulsions of death from repeated strokes 
of the axe. I suffer from cephalgia in consequence of that demoniac 
conduct. 

(10). " Born as an athlete, I treacherously put one of my antago- 
nists to death. I suffer from rheumatism for that deadly sin." 

Bukmavati Avaddna. The saint then related the following story : 
S'achipati, or Indra, once came to pay his respects to the saint, and, find- 
ing him smile, enquired after its reason. The Lord, recalling to his 
memory some ancient events, said : " There was one Eukmavati in the 
city of Utpalavati ; she found a young woman, ravenously hungry after 
delivery, just on the point of eating up her new-born baby ; immediately 
Eukmavati cut her breast with a sharp knife, and offered it to the hungry 
mother. When news of this event reached the heavens, Indra presented 
himself before that wonderful woman, and asked her if she had any 
agitation in her mind at the time of performing that superhuman deed ? 
She replied in the negative, which was of course true. Indra granted 
her a boon by which she wag transformed into a man. Soon after, the 
king of the city breathed his last, and the crown was offered to Eukma- 
vati, the newly made man. His reign was the happiest ever recorded 
in the annals of Utpalavati. 

" In her next life Eukmavati was born in the family of a rich 
banker. The banker's son always thought deeply of the miserable con- 
dition of birds. Finding no other way of relieving them, he proceeded 
to a cremation ground, cut his own flesh into minute pieces, and 
distributed them to the winged animals. A big bird plucked out his 
eyes. The pain was excruciating, but Sattvavara, the banker's son, was 
all firmness. He discoursed with perfect composure on the evanescent 
character of everything human, and on the great merit of charity. 

" He was again born as a great Brdhmana. In a short time ha 
got the reputation of a wise man. Finding a tigress on the point of 
devouring her new-born whelp, he offered his own body, which saved 
the young tiger's life." 

LII. — The story of Adinapunya ; to be found in the Avadana of 
that name. 

LIII. — The story of SubhdshUagaveshi ; to be found in the Ava- 
ddna S'ataka, S. 38, p. 29. 



60 

LIV. — Sattvaitshadha Amddna. When the Lord converted Push- 
yila, a female ogre, a smile was seen on his lips. Indra, who was near, 
enquired after the cause of his smile. The Lord said he was thinking 
of some ancient events. In the days of yore, there was a king named 
Mahendra Sena in the city of Mahendravati. He had a son Sattva- 
ushadha by name. Diseased people from different quarters of the globe 
used to come to him. They were invariably cured by his touch. After 
his death, wise people in the neighbourhood kept his corpse exposed near 
the border of a forest, where it was miraculously preserved from rotting. 
People still recovered their health by touching his corpse. 

The Lord said to Indra, " a future king As'oka will erect a chaitya 
at the spot .where Sattvaushadha's body was preserved. I am that 
Sattvaushadha." 

LV. — The story of Sarmndada ; to be found in the As'oka Avadana. 

LYI. — Pdshana-sarpa Avadana. The Lord was living at Hingu- 
mardana, the king of which place had a great veneration for him. One 
day the ministers of the king complained of a terrible snake, which lived 
on mount Pashana, and destroyed a large number of people every day. 
The Lord undertook to quiet the serpent. He was perfectly success- 
ful. The serpent became a rigid Buddhist from that time. 

LVII. — Bdlokshi Avadana. There were four stiipas at Pashana. 
The Lord erected a fifth one himself. At Balokshi he induced a rich 
banker to erect a stupa, celebrated afterwards as Balokshiya stupa. 
The Lord converted Dambara, a Taksha of the village Dambara, and 
Mallika, a Chandali of Bhandalagrama. At Patala he made Potala, a 
follower of his creed, to erect a splendid stupa on his hair and nails. 
The Lord said to Indra a king Millinda will erect a stiipa at Patala. 

LVIII. — Punyabala Avadana. The Lord was seen smiling at 
Pushkalavati. Indra asked the reason of his smiling. The Lord said 
there was a king, Punyabala by name, at Punyavat. One day when 
going to his villa he found by the road-side a miserable diseased old man, 
suffering greatly. Touched with pity the king established a hospital in 
his city. He used to inspect the cures effected by the physicians in 
his service- One day, on coming to superintend the hospital he found 
a blind old man complaining the loss of his sight. On being apprised 
of the King's presence, the old man approached him and said, " king, 
if you could grant me your right eye I would recover my sight." 



61 

Instantly the king plucked out his eye. This old man was Indra. He 
threw off his disguise, replaced the king's eye, and granted him several 
boons. 

LIX. — Kiinala Avaddna. King As'oka of Pataliputra had many 
wives. His son Kunala, by Padmavati, had peculiarly graceful eyes. 
His eyes attracted the attention of Tishyaraksha, one of his numerous 
step-mothers : she became enamoured of him. But Kunala was true 
to his wife Kdnchanamala. He rejected with scorn the offers of a 
vicious step-mother's love. Tishyaraksha determined to destroy his 
eyes, the causes of her shame. Kunala proceeded by order of his 
father to Takshas'ila to war against its rebellious governor. Anxiety 
on account of the absence of a dear son produced serious illness in the 
king. B[e suffered greatly, and it was only Tishyaraksha's care that 
cured him. As a reward she was allowed to reign supreme for seven 
days. During these seven days, she wrote to the Governor of Taksha- 
s'ila to pull out the eyes of Kunala. That letter was intercepted. It 
fell into the hands of Kunala, who, honoring the command of the reign- 
ing empress, caused his own eyes to be destroyed. K^nchanamala, his 
wife, brought him back to the capital, As'oka, who knew nothing of 
what had transpired, was all in tears at the piteous condition of his son. 
People asked Kunala if he bore any grudge against her who was the 
cause of his misfortune. He said " No. I am quite satisfied with my 
step-mother's conduct." His professions were all true, and because 
they were true, he got his eyes back, and they were even more charming 
than before.* 

LX. — The story of NdgaJcumdra ; see Avadana S'ataka, S. 59, 
p'. 34. 

LXI. — The story of Karshaka, vide As'oka Avadana. 

LXII. — The story of Yas'odhara, see Bhadrakalpa Avadana, S. 1, 
p. 42. 

LXIII. — Pippaldyana Avadana. In the town of Magadha there 
lived a Brahman named Nyagrodhakalpa. His wife Surupa gave birth to 
a beautiful son under a pippala tree. This son was named Pippalayana, 
or the son of a pippala tree. Averse to the pleasures of the world, 
the sen refused to marry. But on the urgent solicitations of his father, 

* This version of the story is, in several respects, different from what has been given 
in the As'oka Avadana (vide ante, p. 11). 



62 

he produced a golden image, saying, if any one could procure him a girl 
as fair as the image, he would marry, well knowing no terrestrial being 
could equal the image in beauty. After a long search, a friend of his 
father found Bhadra, the daughter of Kapila, possessed of the necessary 
qualification. Her colour was as bright as that of gold ; but she too 
was much against marriage, a circumstance which led Pippaldyana to 
accept her as his bride, because he knew full well that the duties of 
married life will never have to be endured by him. Pippalayana 
obtained Bodhi knowledge from the instructions of Kas'yapa, then dwell- 
ing under the shade of a sacred tree, Bahupatra by name. Pippalayana 
was afterwards celebrated under his patronymic as Maha Kas'yapa. 
Bhadra too obtained the highest bliss by renouncing the world. 

On being asked the reasons of their rapid advancement, the lord 
said, Pippalayana, in one of his former existences, was a poor man ; he 
nevertheless feasted S'ikhi, a Buddha, when he was almost dying from 
want of food. In another existence, he endowed a splendid stupa, 
erected by his father King of Kriki, with a rich golden parasol. 

LXIV. — Kinnari Avaddna. Vidyadhara, a serpent-catcher, at- 
tempted to capture the king of serpents, and drag him out from his abode 
by means of drugs and mystic incantations. The king, greatly terrified, 
took shelter with a hunter, named Padmaka. This man killed Vidya- 
dhara with poisoned arrows, and obtained from his protege a charmed 
noose of wonderful power. On his death he bequeathed the noose to his 
son TJtpala, who dwelt at Hastinapura in the vicinity of Valkalayana's 
hermitage- Once upon a time TJtpala heard a charming song resound- 
ing in the air. Learning it was being sung by an exceedingly beautiful 
Kinnari,* he captured her by means of his noose. The Kinnari, to regain 
her liberty, offered to give him her crown-jewel, which could lend the 
power of traversing the universe at pleasure. When the two were 
settling their bargain, in came Sudhana, a young prince of Hastina, on a 
hunting excursion. TJtpala gave him the crown-jewel, and the Kinnari 
married him, and the married couple proceeded to the palace. 

At this time, there lived in the royal household two Brahmanas., 
Kapila and Pushkara, the former serving as priest to the king, and the 

* The Kinnaras are a fabled race of demi-gods with iuman bodies and equine 
heads. They were noted for their musical accomplishments, and held the rank of 
heavenly choristers and followers of Kuvera, the gpd of wealth. 



63 

latter, in the same capacity to the prince. They were vain of their 
learning, and always quarrelled with each other. One of the fuditories 
of the king rebelling, the king directed his son to lead an army against 
the rebellious vassal. Sudhana left his wife with her crown-jewel under 
the care of his mother. The king, after his son's departure, dreamt an 
inauspicious dream, and Kapila his priest advised him to offer a Kin- 
nari as a burnt -offering to propitiate the enraged divinity who had 
caused the dream. Kapila was a shrewd man who took this oppor- 
tunity of humbling his rival, for he knew full well that the prince was 
sure to die if the Kinnari were killed in a sacrifice. But he was dis* 
appointed. The queen privately warned her daughter-in-law, and sent 
her away with the crown-jewel, to Kinnarapura. 

The Kinnari left a ring and some charmed butter with Yalkala- 
yana, requesting him to hand the two things over to Sudhana. 

Sudhana returned victorious from the war. But his joy was 
damped by the loss of his wife. He determined to proceed to Kinnara- 
pura, and immediately set forth in a northerly direction. On his way 
he obtained the ring and the butter from Valkalayana which helped 
him immensely in overcoming the fatigues of his journey. He crossed 
the mountains Himalaya, Kuladu, Ajapatha, Kamartipa, Ekadhara, Vaj- 
raka, and Khadira, one after another, and encountered many adventures. 
Beyond mount Khadira he found two great mountains turning on 
a wheel which made that road impassable. He destroyed the axle of 
the wheel, and fixed the mountains in their proper places. After this 
adventure, he had to ford the Guha, Patanga, Eodini, Hasini and 
several other furious mountain streams before he reached Kinnarapura. 
There he met his wife,' and the two wept tears of joy. 

The Lord said " I am that Kinnari and I am that Sudhana." 

UKSr .^Nalini Avaddna. Asked by his audience to give an 
account of the preceding existence of his parents, the Lord said : 
King Kas'yapa had a daughter named Nalini. When she was of a 
marriageable age, she was placed by her father near the hermitage of 
a sage named Kas'yapa, who had a youthful son of great beauty, begot 
by a deer. The youth was named Ekas'ringi, because he had a short 
horn on his head. Nalini met the youth, brought him to her father's 
house, and was married to him. Ekas'ringi afterwards took other wives, 
and had by them a thousand sons. The sage Kds'yapa afterwards 



64 

became Suddhodana ; the deer, Gautami ; King Kas'yapa, Dandapani ; 
Ekas'ringi, myself; Nalini, Tasodhara ; and the thousand sons, my 
S'ravakas and followers. 

LXVI. — The story of Kavikumara ; vide Avadana of that name. 

LXVII. — Sangharakshita Avadana. Sangharakshita, the son of 
Buddha-rakshita, was intended, from his conception, by his father 
to be a disciple of S'ariputra. Acting according to the instructions 
of that great teacher, Sangharakshita renounced the world. A few 
of his friends invited him to accompany them on a voyage. He 
accepted their invitation. When their ship was far away from land, 
it was overtaken by a sudden storm. Every one feared that his 
end was come. But a voice from heaven quieted their mind. It 
said, " Cast Sangharakshita overboard and save yourselves." They 
threw him overboard, and he was carried to the Nagaloka. The 
Nagas, unable to bear the pure refulgence of his person, managed to 
throw him into the ship again. But the unfortunate Bhikshu, while 
sleeping, was again cast overboard, and left alone on a desert shore by 
his inhuman companions. Unmoved by sufferings, Sangharakshita 
resolved to travel through the whole length and breadth of the earth. 
He passed through many viharas, witnessing various extraordinary scenes, 
each testifying to the truth of the great principle that the merits of a 
work are never destroyed. Once he lodged at a vihara where he 
found the Bhikshus to be very simple and well-behaved people. They 
collected their vegetables, dressed their curries, and prepared their 
food. But as soon as the viands were placed on the plates, each grain 
of rice became transformed into a large wooden club. The Bhikshus took 
the clubs up, and began to strike at one another. They continued fight- 
ing in this way till the ground was all covered over with blood. At 
the end of the fight, they quietly sat down, talking as old friends. On 
enquiry, Sangharakshita came to learn that in a previous existence they 
had fought at a vihara where the Bhikshus were eating, and this was a 
daily punishment for that great misconduct. 

At another vihara Sangharakshita obtained, with much difficulty, an 
empty room on condition that he was to keep strict silence. But there, 
the presiding divinity of the place appeared before him, complained of 
the criminal and unnatured conduct of the Bhikshus, and requested him 
to reform them. He instantly began to preach, and was in a short time 



65 

master of the place. The five hundred Bhikshus who dwelt there were all 
corrected, and converted. With these he proceeded through the sky- 
to the place where the Lord Buddha was then residing. Buddha preached 
to the new converts, and they returned home well pleased. Finding the 
Lord alone Sangharakshita said, " Lord, on my way back I have 
seen animals of the shape of pillars, walls &c. What are they ? In 
consequence of what sin have they got such unnatural shapes ?" The 
Lord said, " they were all S'ravakas to the Lord Kas'yapa. They had 
spat on the walls of the monastery or Sanghagriha, and therefore they 
now suffer." 

Sangharakshita easily obtained Arhatship. The Lord said the 
reason of his high and rapid advancement was that in one of his previous 
existences, he had made a samadhi under the instruction of Lord 
Kas'yapa. 

LXVIII. — Padmavati Avaddna. The Bhikshus asked the Lord 
why and for what sin, on the part of Tas'odhara was she, on her first deli- 
very, ordered by Suddhodana to be put to death. The Lord said, there 
was a king Brahmadatta by name, at Kampilla. He picked up in the 
forest a destitute girl, Padmavati, who scattered lotuses at every step she 
moved, and made her his favorite queen. This girl was born of a hind, 
who had drunk of a portion of S'andilya's seed. She was very simple- 
minded. Other queens, envious of her position, used to play tricks upon 
her, and at the time of her first delivery cheated her most shamefully. 
These wicked ladies, on the occasion, told her, " Dear Padma, you are 
a rustic girl, you do not know how to give birth to a royal child. Let 
us help you." She yielded. They covered her eyes, threw into the 
river the twin boys she brought forth, and decked her face with gore. 
They deceived her by telling that it was only a lump of flesh that she 
had given birth to, and it had been thrown into the river. At the same 
time they informed her husband that Padma had eaten up her two 
new-born sons. The king, enraged at her inhuman conduct, ordered 
her to instant execution. But there were shrewd men in the court, who 
privately saved her life. 

The divinity presiding over S'andilya's hermitage appeared to the 
king in a dream, and revealed the whole truth to him. The king made 
a strict investigation in the harem, and found that Padmavati had 
been perfectly innocent. He became disconsolate, and gave vent to 
loud lamentations. 
9 



66 

Soon after some fishermen appeared at the court, and presented the 
king with two infants who betrayed their royal lineage by the resem- 
blance of their features with those of the king. They were reported to 
have been found in a vessel floating on the river. The courtier who 
saved Padma's life now wished to produce her before the king. But she 
refused to return, and proceeded to her father's hermitage. After the 
death of her father, she travelled through various places in the habit of a 
Parivrajika. In the course of her peregrinations she stopped at Benares. 
Brahmadatta conducted her with great honour to his capital from that 
place. 

" In a previous existence Padmavati, while yet a girl, had given a 
lotus with which she was playing to a Pratyeka Buddha, but wantonly 
had taken it back. Because she had given a lotus, therefore at every 
step she produced a lotus ; because she had taken it back, therefore she 
was ordered to execution. This Padmavati is Tas'odhara." 

LXIX. — Buddha-prasddim Amdana. King As'oka lived at Patali- 
putra. He erected chaityas and raised stupas over Sugata's relics col- 
lected from various quarters, even from Nagaloka, and always feasted the 
Buddhist Sangha. The stupas raised by him numbered eighty- four 
thousand. He used to feast the Sangha every day. One day a vain 
Bhikshu, told an illiterate old man : " Do you, old man, know why the 
king feeds you ? He will ask you some questions on the mysteries of 
our religion." The old man felt very much distressed, for he was per- 
fectly innocent of all learning, and greatly disliked being exposed. 
But the goddess Buddha-prasadhini appeared before him, encouraged 
him, and instructed him by saying " Tell the king in reply, ' hear O 
King, the sum and substance of all religion. The deposits in a treasury 
are but fuels to the fire of greed. The meritorious works performed 
with wealth, spread all over the earth. Bating and sleeping are for 
the satisfaction of those only that are blinded by ignorance.' " 

As'oka presented the old man a common piece of cloth interwoven 
with golden threads. This old man obtained Arhatship after perform- 
ing a samadhi, under the instruction of the gods. On another occasion 
king As'oka, finding the vestment of a Bhikshu highly perfumed, asked 
him the reason. The Bhikshu said, " I lived a month in heaven under 
a Parij^ta tree ; and thence the odour." Erom the time of this conversa- 
tion As'oka undertook to dedicate holy gardens to the three Eatnas. 



67 

LXX, — Ilddhyantika Avaddna. Madhyantika,aBhiksliu, was sent 
to Kashmir as a missionary by his spiritual guide A'nanda. Kashmir 
was at that time peopled solely by the N^gas. The Nagas poured a 
ehower of arrows upon him. But these weapons formed a splendid 
parasol over his head. The Nagas, wondering at this miraculous result, 
granted him an uninhabited site, and he very soon converted that place 
into a Vihara. 

LXXI. — S'onavdsi Avaddna. S'onavasi was a propagator of the 
Buddhist faith at Mathurd. He was asked by two athletes the meaning 
of the term S'onavasi. He said : " Finding an old man not willing to 
exchange his s'ona or ochre-colored vestment even for a royal robe, I 
panted for a similar ochre-colored cloth, hence I am called Sonavdsi." 

At Urumunda a hill in Mathura he converted Nata and Bhata, two 
Nagas, and erected two Viharas of the same name in commemoration of 
their conversion. 

LXXII. — TTpagupta Amdana. Upagupta was intended by his 
father, Gupta of Mathura. to be a disciple of S'onavasi. Upagupta had 
deep reverence for S'onavasi. Vasavadatta, a prostitute, finding Upa- 
gupta very handsome, desired him to call it hers. Upagupta said, " This 
is not the proper time for going to a prostitute ; I shall call at the 
proper time." Some time after this, Vasavadatta poisoned one of her 
paramours at the instigation oi another. She was sentenced to be killed 
with torture. The executioner cut her aose, her ears, her hair, and 
took away her clothes. Upagupta, thinking that to be a proper time 
for seeing a prostitute, appeared before Vasavadatta, and instructed 
her in his faith, which gave her great consolation. Upagupta became 
an Arhat ; he conquered Kama and commanded him to exhibit Sugata's 
beauty. Kama transformed himself into Sugata, assuming a brilliant 
form, with large eyes shut in meditation, and still eye-brows. Upagupta 
converted eighteen lacs of the people of Mathura. 

LXXIII. — Ndgadosha Amdana. See As'okavadana. 

LXXIV. — Sampddi Avaddna. As'oka was a Kalpavriksha to all 
beggars. He gave away ninety-six lacs of gold pieces in thirty-six years. 
At the time of his death his grand-nephew Sampadi prevented his treasur- 
ers from obeying the orders of .the old king. As'oka, having nothing 
else at hand, gave away one-half of the pill he was desired to use, and 
at last, by the advice of Radhagupta his minister, granted the whole 



68 

kingdom to tie Sangha. Sampadi bought it back at the cost of four 
erores of golden dinars. 

LXXV. — Svastimdn Avaddna. Svastiman, a Jina, who lived at 
S'ravasti, told the Bhikshus, that ignorance is at the root of all the vices 
of the world. 

LXXVI. — Vidura Avaddna. Jina found a large animal suffering 
excruciating torture from the bite of innumerable worms subsisting on its 
ulcers. Jina said, " This animal was in the course of the transmigration of 
his soul, a king, named Vidura ; and he beat a Pratyeka Buddha who had 
entered his seraglio, though the person had entered it only to teach his 
wives the true religion. He will have to suffer the tortures of hell-fire, to 
be born in the Ohandala caste, to kill a holy man, and again to suffer in 
hell. Born a man he will have to take ordination as a monk from the 
teacher TJttara, and to be punished by Kas'iraja for being honored by his 
wives." 

LXXVII. — Alpasvdsa-Mithdsmsa Avadana. Four serpents, Dhri- 
tar^shtra, Viriirha, Yirupaksha, DhanAdhipa, and two men, Kainakeya and 
his nephew S.'aila, all obtained the highest bliss from Jina's instructions. 
They all lived in or about the forest Adumaya. The Lord Jina said, they 
all had been attentive to the lectures of Kcis'yapa Buddha in their pre- 
vious existences, under the names of Alpasvasa and Mahisvdsa. 

LXXYIH. — Sakra chyavana Avaddna. See As'oka Avadana, ante, 
p. 15. 

LXXIX. — Jivas'armd Avadana. Jivasarma was a learned Brah- 
mana of S'ravasti ; he married at an advanced age at the request of his 
friends. His young wife thought the old man intolerable. To satisfy 
her wicked cravings, she wanted to have him away from home, and 
induced him to travel from court to court in quest of alms. The Brah- 
mana collected a large amount of money ; but he was robbed of all he 
had got by a gang of thieves on his way home. He was lamenting 
over his loss when Lord Bhtitabhdvana gave him a treasure with which 
he returned to his wife. Finding her not satisfied still, he renounced 
the world, and soon obtained the rank of an Arhat. The Lord related 
the story of Mahendra Sena to explain the merits of Jivasarma. 

LXXX. — Supriya and Subhadra. Lord Buddha, while lying on his 
death-bed at Kus'i, remembered two persons who were greatly puffed up 
with vanity. He resolved on humbling them. One was Supriya, a king 



69 

of the Grandharvas, who, being requested by Indra to accompany him on 
a philanthropic journey, told him, " I cannot go because I have to play on ' 
my flute." To humble him Buddha employed a master musician created 
by himself. Unable to surpass this man, Supriya humbly prayed the 
Lord, and obtained the highest bliss from the Lord's instruction. 

The Lord said, " this Supriya was a worshipper of Kas'yapa who 
performed a Samadhi with a view to be the king of the Gandharvaa. 
The other supremely vain man was Subhadra, a Yati, who, seeing "a 
fig tree covered with blossoms, thought the blossoms proceeded from the 
merits of his good works. When the blossoms withered, he thought it was 
from his own sinfulness. But the nymph who dwelt on the fig tree said, 
* It is neither from your merit nor from your sin that the blossoms have 
grown and withered, but for the birth and death of a Buddha in the 
vicinity.' " Subhadra, humbled in his pride, proceeded to the dying 
Buddha, became his disciple, and died before him. 

The Lord said, Subhadra had been in his previous existence As'oka, 
a disciple of Kas'yapa, who prayed for dying before the eyes of his 
spiritual guide. 

The Lord said, " We never feel any pain in doing things liked by 
others. There was in days of yore a king named Yijayanta in the city 
of Ajitodaya. His subjects were all virtuous men. They filled the 
heaven by proceeding thither in cro'vyds after death. Indra, to test the 
virtue of the king sent a cruel beggar to him. This relentless man 
asked bits of flesh from the king's body. The king granting, he went 
on asking continually till the king was literally reduced to a skeleton." 
LXXXI. — Hetupama Amddna. See As'oka Avadana, ante, p. 14. 
LXXXII. — Bhavasarmd Avadana. See As'oka Avadana, ante, 
p. 14. 

LXXXIII. — Chandra Siinja Avadana. Suddhodana once asked 
Buddha why was it, that Eahula remained for six years in the womb ; and 
why was Tas'odhara so long oppressed with the heavy load ? The Lord 
replied, " a king of Mithili had two sons, Chandra and Siirya. Surya, the 
eldest, renounced the world. One day he drank water from a rishi's 
water-pot without his permission. But immediately after he repented of 
his using the property of another person without his consent, and went di- 
rectly to- king Chandra to obtain instruction as to the proper course of ex- 
piation. Chandra made him tarry at his capital for six days and then 



70 

gave the proper instructions, after consulting with the Brahmans of his 
'court. I was that Surya, and my son Rahula was the king Chandra. A 
milkmaid went to sell hutter-milk in company with her young daughter. 
The daughter gave the heavier vessel to her own mother, and took the 
light one herself. The daughter is now Tas'odhara who feels the conse- 
quence of her selfishness."* 

LXXXIV. — Madhurasvard Avaddna. See As'oka Avadana, ante, 
p. 15. 

LXXXV. — Upananda and Kuliana. The Bhikshus asked the 
Lord why was the Lord so fond of the diseased. The Lord said, there 
were no pains more unbearable than those that affect the body. 

Sivi, king of S'ikhi-ghosha, had a charitable dispensary. A patient 
sought relief thereat. The physicians in the king's employ advised him 
to use the blood of one who had never been angry since his birth. The 
king, considering himself to be such a one, gave his own blood, and the 
patient recovered in six months. Once on a time, the king's son felt 
unwell. The physicians prescribed for him a butter named sarvas^ra, 
the ingredients of which should be the extracts from every drug known, 
and especially from the nerves of a bird called Jivanjiva. It had to be 
prepared in twelve years, and by boiling the ingredients four thousand 
times. The drug was prepared, but no sooner had the king's son 
raised the cup of butter to his mouth, than a Pratyeka Buddha, who 
had been suffering from the same disease, demanded it of him. The 
king's son immediately relinquished the cup ; but he was cured by the 
healing power of the holy man. 

The Lord said, " That king's son was myself." The Bikshus asked, 
why did those two suffer from the same disease ? The Lord replied, 
" Upananda the younger son of Brahmadatta of Benares conspired with 
Kuhana, the younger brother of the royal priest, to deprive the heir- 
apparent Nanda of a limb. He succeeded, but afterwards repenting 
restored the kingdom to his brother. Upananda and Kuhana raised 
several Viharas before their death. Upananda was Sivi's son, and 
Kuhana was the Pratyeka Buddha." 

LXXXVI. — Kalinja-s'as'aJca Avaddna. Some Bhikshus asked the 
Lord what claims an elder person had to the veneration of a younger. 

* The story has been given at length in the Rev. S. Beal's translation of the oldest 
Chiuese version of the Legend of S'aUya Buddha, pp. 361 e( seq. 



71 

The Lord said during the reign of Brahmadatta there lived at Benares 
foUr animals : a francoline partridge, a hare, a monkey and an elephant, 
who all honoured an elderly banyan tree. On account of the merits of 
this good work there was always abundance of rain and plenty of every 
thing. "I am, oh Bhikshus, that partridge, Sariputra is the hare, 
MaudgaMyana is that monkey, and Ananda is the elephant." 

LXXXVII. — PadmaJea Avadana. See As'oka Avadcina, {ante, 
p. 15). 

LXXXYIII. — Cliitra Araddna. Chitra, the son of Bimbisara, 
king of Kajagriha, became a Bhikshu at an early age. But his wife 
managed to bring him back to his house. When Lord Buddha came to 
hear of this, he appeared before Ohitra and dispelled the darkness from 
his mind. In a short time Chitra became an Arhat. The Lord said, 
" Chitra in one of his previous existences was similarly deceived by hig 
wife ; he was in that existence Haris'ikha, the son of a priest to the king 
Brahmadatta. Haris'ikha entered a monastery in company with his elder 
brother Harihayana. He subsequently fell in love with Lavanyavati, 
the daughter of a king. The lady spared no pains to ingratiate herself 
in Haris'ikha's favor, and was successful. Harihayana, deeply mortified 
at this sudden change in his brother, came to him and led him back 
to the monastery. I am that Harihayana, and Chitra is Haris'ikha." 

LXXXIX. — Bharmariichi or Timingila Avaddna. Some merchants 
of S'ravasti were returning from a prosperous voyage, when they fell 
within the tremendous jaws of a whale (timingila) of huge bulk. In 
utter helplessness they cried, ' ' salutation to B uddha, salutation to B addha, 
salutation to Buddha," and they were saved. They obtained Arhatship 
by worshipping Lord Buddha who then resided at S'ravasti. Beholding 
the miraculous deliverance of the merchants' ship, the whale ceased to 
be a carnivorous animal, and died from want of proper food. The 
Nagas, unable to bear the putrid smell of the whale's carcass, threw it 
upon the sea-shore, where the bones formed a hill of no small height. 

After the death of the whale its soul was born in the family of a 
Brahman, and was named Dharmaruchi. The new-born babe was so 
voracious that his hunger could not be appeased with the milk of a 
hundred women. When grown up, he became a Bhikshu with the sole 
object of getting plenty of food. But his appetite was nowhere satisfied. 
One day he ate up alone a feast prepared for a whole Buddhist congrega- 
tion (sangha). The host, alarmed at his voraciousness, fled with his 



72 

family to where lord Buddha dwelt. The Lord said, " fear not ; he 
is neither a Taksha, nor a Rakshasa; he is Dharmauchi, a Bhikshu 
destined one day to obtain Arhatship." The Lord then took Dharma- 
ruchi to the above-mentioned bone -hill, and reminded him of his 
doings iu his previous existence, which excited in his mind a feeling of 
resignation. He obtained Arhatship from the Lord Buddha. 

The Bhikshus asked the Lord what were the merits that raised 
Dharmaruchi to such an eminence. The Lord said, " in a previous 
kalpa, there was a patriarch, Dhamas'ila by name. He raised a stupa in 
honor of Khemaiikara, a Buddha, in spite of strong opposition from an 
anti-buddhist party. He had for his ally only one man, named, Sahas- 
rayodhi. I am that patriarch Dharmasila, and Sahasrayodhi is Dharma- 
ruchi. In another kalpa two Brahmana brothers, Mati and Sumati, 
appeared at the sacrifice of Vasava, king of Benares. They obtained 
whatever they sought from the king. The king's daughter, named 
Sundari became enamoured of Sumati ; but her suit was rejected by the 
stern Brahmana. Thus deeply mortified, she resigned the world, and 
became a Bhikshuni. Sumati dreamt a strange dream, for the explana- 
tion of which he . repaired, by the advice of rishi Parnada, to Lord 
Dvipankara, who lived at Dvipavati. There he met Sundari, and asked 
flowers from her. When offering him the flowers Sundari prayed that 
he be her husband in the next existence. Sumati fell prostrate before 
the lord with his clotted hair scattered all over the ground. Lord 
Dvipankara trod them down, exclaiming, ' you shall become a great 
Buddha, S'akyamuoi by name.' Mati, who was standing by, felt his 
Brahmanic pride scandalized by the unbrahmanly conduct of his bro- 
ther ; but Sumati induced him to revere the Lord. I am that Sumati, 
Yas'odhara is Sundari, and Mati is Dharmaruchi." 

In another kalpa, during the advent of Krakuchchanda, a great 
Buddha, there lived, at Ujjayini, a merchant's wife, named Eamabala. 
During her husband's absence she accepted her son As'vadatta for her 
paramour, and poisoned her husband on his return home. To evade 
punishment she fled with her son to some foreign country, where 
As'vadatta finding her in the embrace of another, put a period to her 
guilty existence. As'vadatta afterwards became a Buddhist, and was 
fond of repeating the formula ' namo buddhaya, namo buddhaya.' 
As'vadatta is the same person as Dharmaruchi. 

SO. — Dhanilsa Amddna. The Brahmans of Yais'ali passed a 



73 

decree, banishing from the town every one who invited Buddha to his 
house. The householder Dhanika, unmindful of the decree, invited Bud- 
dha who had been dwelling at Kltagara by the side of lake Markata. 
Dhanika, his wife, his son, and his daughter-in-law were all staunch 
Buddhists. They feasted him for four days. When the Brahmans 
tried to enforce their decree, Dhanika succeeded in appeasing them. 

The Lord said-^" During a terrible famine, Dhanika, in his previous 
existence, had granted the only piece of cloth his family had to a Pratyeka 
Buddha, and hence his prosperity and influence." 

XCI. — Suhhdshita Avaddna. The great city of Kiis'i was cele- 
brated for its Grymnasium. The athletes of the place had all been con- 
verted and raised to the rank of Arhats by Lord Buddha. They were 
very fond of religious talk. The Lord was one day greatly delighted by 
their conversation. He said, he was, in all his previous existences fond 
of religious discourse. In course of one of these, he gave his own flesh 
to a Eakshasa for a moral saying. The monster at last proved to be 
•Indra in disguise, come to test his character. The purport of the 
saying was, that all the impressions of the human mind are momentary 
like the flash of lightning. 

XCII. — Maitrakanyaka Amddna, vide Avadana S'ataka. 

XCIII. — Sumdgadhd Avaddna. Sumagadha, daughter of Anar 
thapindada, was married to a person at Paundravardhana. Her father- 
in-law, on one occasion, invited some Jinas to his house. They were 
all naked, and without the least sense of propriety. Shocked at their 
complete nudity and their want of good breeding, Sumagadha. exclaimed, 
" Oh how infinitely superior is our Lord to these boorish wretches." 
On her mother-in-law expressing a desire to see the Lord. Sumagadha, 
ascending the highest roof of the house, worshipped Buddha with 
flowers and incense. The flowers fell at the Lord's feet at the Jetavana 
grove; Through his omniscience the Lord knew from what direction 
the flowers had come. Instantly he presented himself at Paundra- 
vardhana, where he was received with the highest honor. 

" Sumagadha once was," said the Lord, " Kanchanamala, the 
daughter of Kriki; she had accepted the ascetic condition with five 
hundred handmaids under the instructions of Kas'yapa." 

In another existence she honored a st\ipa with a garland of 
orange flowers. 
10 



74 

XGIY. —Yas'omih'a or Stmdara Avaddm. Tas'omitra, son of 
Punyamitra, had a fountain of pure limpid water at the root of each 
of his incisor teeth, so he was perfectly ignorant of what thirst 
was. 

The Bhikshus enquiring after the origin of this strange pheno- 
menon, the Lord replied : " Sundara, son of a banker of Benares, acting 
under the instruction of Lord Kas'yapa, became a hermit. Suffering 
intensely from thirst he could not anywhere find water ; wells, tanks 
and even rivers dried up at his sight. When he was on the point of 
death for want of water, Lord Kas'yapa compassionately filled his 
vessel up, and made its contents inexhaustible. The Lord took a 
palmful of water from the waterpot, which conferred so great a 
merit on Sundara that he never lost his supply of water." 

XCV. — Sanku-Sandhidatta Avaddna. Sanku and Sandhidatta, two 
brothers, lost their father Arthadatta, a merchant of Eajagriha, when 
they were very young. Their mother brought them up with great 
difficulty, and, when they grew up, employed them in pilfering. Tha 
thieves were detected by the vigilant police of Ajatasatru, and sentenced 
capitally. At the place of their execution Buddha interposed in their 
favor, rescued them from the gallows, and carried them to his hermit- 
age, where they soon rose to the exalted rank of Arhats. 

The Lord said, " In one of their former existences, they were 
the cubs of a hungry tigress from whose jaws I preserved their lives 
by offering my own." 

XCVI. — Kunjara Avaddna. King TJdayana of Avanti was taking 
a walk in one of his gardens with five hundred of his wives, when five 
hundred holy men entered the garden to gather fl.owers. Some of them 
cast sidelong glances at the royal wives. The king took umbrage at 
their conduct, and ordered their hands and legs to be cut off. The 
order was instantly executed. The holy men screamed loudly from 
excruciating pain. Buddha, who was near, heard their groans with 
compassion, and looked at them with an eye of grace. They got their 
legs and hands back by a miracle. 

The Lord said " Five hundred ministers of Brahmadatta, king 
of Benares, afraid of the effects of the king's anger at their neglect 
of duty, fled through the desert. They were entertained with water and 
fruits by an elephant which lived there. They settled in the neighbour- 



75 

liood of the elephant's dwelling, and, when it died, gave it a grand 
funeral, I am that elephant." 

XOTII. — Kachchhapa Amdina. When the Lord lived at the Venu- 
vana grove at Eajagriha, the envious Devadatta sent five hundred well- 
armed hermits to put an end to Buddha's existence. They all made the 
Lord their aim at one and the same time. Thousands of weapons were 
simultaneously poured on him from all quarters. But in passing through 
space these were transformed into so many garlands of sweet- 
scented flowers. The hermits on their knees begged his pardon, which 
was instantly granted. They gradually rose to the rank of Arhats. 

The Lord said, " These hermits had been, in one of their previous 
existences, merchants at Benares. On a sea voyage their ships had 
all wrecked. But they were all saved by myself in the shape of a 
tortoise. But when I was fast asleep they wanted to eat my flesh. 
I awaked, and, having found them extremely hungry, offered them 
my own body and obtained the highest merit." 

XCVIII. — Kus'alas'ild Avaddna, The Lord entertained a large 
number of famine-stricken hungry athletes, converted them to his own 
faith, and raised them to the rank of Arhats. 

He said " The athletes of Kota obtained the highest knowledge 
from the preaching of Kus'alas'ila, a hermit. I am that holy hermit." 

XOIX. — Pddmaka Awaddna. To be found in the As'oka Avadana, 
ante, p. 15. 

G. — Prabhasa Avaddna. Prasenajit, king of Kos'ala, asked the 
Lord, saying, " Lord, tell me truly in what existence did the desire 
for Sambodhi first arise in your mind ?" 

The Lord replied, " When I was Prabhasa, king of Prabhavati, 
I had an elephant who went to the forest out of his love to a female 
consort, and returned to my stable again. My elephaut-driver, who 
was very proud of his skill in training elephants, boasted before me, 
saying, ' Sire, you see my skill, the elephant comes to the stable again.' 
I asked him, ' Was there any man who was superior to all tempta- 
tions ?' He said, ' Yes, there are Tathagatas. It is by their glory that 
the earth is enlightened.' Erom that day I felt a craving for Bodhi 
knowledge." 

01. — Sydmdka Avaddna. 

Oil. — Sinha-hmjara Avaddna, One evening the Lord was con- 



76 

versing familiarly with all his Bhikshus at the Jetavana grove. The 
conversation turned on an inquiry about the origin of philanthropy. Is 
it a natural propensity, the result of accumulated deeds of merit, or of 
constant practice ? The Lord said, " even ferocious animals, like lions, 
are susceptible to that feeling. For instance, a company of mer- 
chants were on the point of being devoured by a large venomous 
serpent, on the seashore. They screamed aloud at the prospect of 
instant death ; their screams were heard by a lion and an elephant. 
They fell from a high hill on the serpent and crushed him to death. 
But they themselves lost their lives from the poisonous breath of the 
dying reptile. I am that lion, Sariputra is the elephant, and Devadatta 
is the reptile." 

cm. — Priyapinda Avaddna. Priyapinda, son of Vajrapinda, king 
of Vajravati, by Eohini, daughter of Meru, king of Gangadhipatya, 
was born with a grand jewelled parasol over his head. On his coming 
to the throne he gave away his whole property for the good of the 
animal creation. Durmati, his minister, to get the throne for himself, 
instigated Meru, maternal grandfather to the king, to war. Always 
averse to bloodshed, Priyapinda proceeded to his grandfather's capital 
to appease him. There by his own fiat he created a rich banquet 
for all his men. At this the grandfather thought him to be a god, and 
honored him as such. 

The Lord said " Priyapiiida had been in a former life, Mulika, a 
physician practising at Benares ; he had cured a Pratyeka Buddha 
of a mortal disease, and given him a painted umbrella. I am that 
Priyapinda, and Devadatta is that wicked Durmati." 

CIV. — S'as'aha Avaddna. See p. 50. 

CV. — Raivataka Avaddna. Raivataka, a bhikshu of S'aila Yihdra 
at Kfe'mfra, was boiling water in Order to dye his cloth at a retired spot, 
when there came in a Brahmana who had lost his cow. He asked the 
Bhikshu what was he about. On receiving the Bhikshu's reply the 
Brahmana came to the boiling vessel, and to the utter ruin of the 
Bhikshu found it full of blood and beef. The BrShmana brought a 
criminal suit againsl the Bhikshu, who was sentenced to 12 years' 
imprisonment for theft. On his release, at the expiration of the term, he 
gave the following explanation of his suffering. He was, in a previous 
existence, a cattle-lifter ; once on a time having stolen and killed a cow, 



77 

h« had pointed to a Pratyeka Buddha as the real culprit ; he suffered 
imprisonment for that sin. 

CVI. — Kanakavarnd Avaddna. Kanaka was king of the city of Ka- 
nakavati. A minister's son was found guilty of carrying on an intrigue 
with the king's daughter, Kanakavarna. They were both ordered by the 
king to the place of execution. But the king's son, Kanakavarma, who 
was very fond of his sister, exerted in their favour, and succeeded in sen- 
ding them away from Kanakavati. The king enraged at the disobedience 
of his son, banished him from the city. The banished prince travelled 
through various cities, and arrived at last at the deserted city where his 
sister dwelt. Being apprised that the city was depopulated by the de- 
structive ravages of 60,000 Yakshas, he destroyed them all single-handed 
(except one that sought his protection), took the administration of the 
city in his own hands, and appointed the minister's banished son as his 
prime-minister. The Lord said, " I am that Prince." 

CYII. — Suddhodana Avaddna. Suddhodana, a merchant of Be- 
nares, received the benefit of hearing a good saying at the sacrifice of all 
his wealth which he bestowed on Balasarasvati, the daughter of Brah- 
madatta. The Lord was that Suddhodana, who was the speaker of it. 

CYIII. — JimMamhana Avaddna. Jimiitaketu, the king of Kan- 
chanapura, according to the custom of ancient Hindu Eajas, abdicated 
the throne in favor of his son Jimiitavahana, and . proceeded to the 
mount Malaya to seek salvation. His son used to go there to pay 
his respect to his old father. One day he found on the mount a 
beautiful girl, whom he married. She was the daughter of Vis'vavasu, 
king of the Siddhas. The married couple took a long walk in the hills, 
when they suddenly met a female Naga sobbing aloud. According 
to an agreement with Garuda, her son was that day to offer himself 
up as food to that bird-king. Jimiitavahana offered to go in his 
stead, and soothed the weeping mother's mind. He sat at the place 
agreed upon, when Garuda in a long swoop struck his monstrous bill on 
the crown of the prince's head. His wife, supposing him dead, kindled 
a funeral pyre, and exclaimed when on the point of ascending it, 
" Haravallabha, (the favorite of Hara) you promised me a bride- 
groom wlio was to have empire over the Vidyadharas. But you see my 
widowhood commences before a week is past, after our happy union. 
How can the words of a chaste one like thee be false?" Instantly 



78 

Haravallabba sent a nectareous shower and resuscitated Jimutavahana. 
This story has been dramatised in the Nagdnandai of S'riharsha. 
Beginning, siat kw^^t^ I ^ 't#T^f%fiWT^^^^Wm^w%'?^: 

End. ^T ^ w wfx:w's?ii?cref^^^^'iirf^raiT ^^w'!^ 

Colophon. 'TOTTiT tif^^'^^^rT^^q^m i arftrfx^ »i'?m; ^^^?fm I 



BUDDHA-CHAEITRA. 

Substance, paper, 10 y. 6J inches, rolia, 81. Lines on a page, 23. 
Extent in s'lokas, 2445. Character, Newari. Samvat 1878. Prose and verse. 
Incorrect. 

An episode in the story of the wars between the gods and the de- 
mons, in which a girl named Ananda, deputed by the Lord Buddha, over- 
came many she-demons. By Nathamala alias Nathurama Brahma- 
chari. In the portion of the earth called Ilavrata-khanda there reigned 
a powerful king of the demons, Buddha by name. He had eleven great 
marshals. The gods trembled at his name. Once on a time, the gods 
and the demons had an encounter in the way leading to the southern 
country. After the slaughter of many thousand demons, Brahma 
ordered Vis'vakarma to prepare a battle-field at the foot of the Hima- 
laya, and requested Siirasena, king of TJdyota, to come to his aid. 
Surasena came with a well-appointed army led by his sons Jayasena and 
Ealasena. There were several battles fought, in many of which the 
female demons took part. Lord Buddha sent a girl, named Ananda, 
who vanquished the heroines on the side of the Daityas. The book 
ends with the description of the heroic achievements of Ganga on the 
Buddhist, and Eaktabhaksha OQ the enemy's side. 



79 

This codex contains a dictionary of the Mdtiikiis, or such mystic 
terms as Om, An, &c. 

Beginning. \^ ^^r Ji'^wra i ^k: ^x si^^tR? ^^it ^i =? '^^itx «T't^^«lf^- 

End. «'?m^ 'I'^T^lx: ^TJIBT trStm ^V ^cil?T ^KT ^^^T ?IfI^»5rT^ 

Colophon. ■?;frf ^^^^^qf^t ^'^'afl^^^'^Tfrf^f^^ fWT'^^T^'^^^^^'sf I 



CHHANDOMRITALATA. 

Substance, paper, 10| % 4s inches. Tolia, 47, Lines on a page, 8. 
Extent in s'lokas, 758. Character, Nagara. Prose and verse. Old. Incorrect. 

This work is divided into six Manjaris, and lays down rules regard- 
ing Sanskrit metres. The metres noticed are what are used in ordinary 
Sanskrit compositions. None of the Vedio metres has been noticed. 
By Amritananda. 

Beginning. ># tat ks^wt^j i ^# WRf thj^H m'fmw\^v^^'- I 



80 

End. aj^i'^iKif^fr 5iT^T ^^T w^s^ ^ti^ i 

Colophon. ?;f?r '§?%s^crg<Ti^f ji?isiw^t wt ^W^ ^atht i 



DHARANl-MANTEA-SANGEAHA. 

Substance, paper, lOi X 3f inolies. Folia, 171. Lines on a page, &. 
Extent in s'lokas, 2180. Character, Newari. Prose and verse. Incorrect. 
Old. 

This work treats of the Aryahardhara, Aryabhayakari and other 
DharanJ mantras, and gives the rules for the meditation of those mantras. 

Beginning. \^ st'ht ^^g=^ra i ^ sr^T j'^ra vxyi i v^ f fl; ^^r^ a^tiwt^ i 
V ^^t: ^PtT ^kt ^K^sr^u^ mf^x ^ WSI^T- 
^ ^TWf K«w ^fii^'c^'w^ ^rg-w^iffi ^ II 



81 

End. ^OaTT 'gfl?ril?% ^^T ^^i^M ^I^'^T^TTT^IT^^ fSK^T ^^J^ 

Colophon. \ft( ?lt^§^TX:T^fr'T4flr?fl13^JIrtq>?jr ^^THT I 



No. B. 42. 
DAS'ABHU'MI'S'VAEA. 



Substance, paper lOJ X 3|-. Folia, 221. Lines on a page, 6. Extent 
in s'lokas, 3,397. Prose and verse. Old. • Incorrect. 

A treatise on the ten different stages which a person must pass 
through, before he can .attain Buddhahood. These stages are tech- 
nically called Bhiimis, and thence the codex derives its specific 
name. It forms one of the nine Dharmas or sacred scriptures of the 
Nepalese Buddhists, and is held in high esteem. It must also be of 
considerable antiquity as it was carried to China at an early age. It 
was translated into Chinese under the name of Shi-chu-king, by 
Kumarajiva and another. 

Like most of the Mahayana Sutras, it is narrative in form, and 
professes to have been related by Buddha himself. The scene is laid 
in the heaven of Indra, where the Lord was residing amidst the 
gods, who were very obedient to him in the expectation of obtaining the 
highest bliss through his favour. During the second week of his 
residence in the celestial palace, in company of the recently converted 
Devaraja and a large company of Bodhisattvas, one of the latter, 
Vajragarbha by name, performed, by his permission, the meditation 
named Mahaydnaprahhdva, or ' the glory of the great Translation.' 
Ten Buddhas, resplendent in brilliant beams of light, manifested their 
divine presence on all sides of Vajragarbha by their superhuman power. 
They touched Tajragarbha with their hands without stirring from 
their seats. This touch interrupted the meditations of the Bodliisattva. 
On awaking he enumerated the names of the ten Bhumis or progressive 
conditions of Bodhisattvas. Viz., Pramudita, Yimala, Prabhakari, Arch- 
ishmati, Sudurjaya, Abhimukhi, Durangama, Achala, Sadhumati and 
Dharmamedhya. He then addressed the Buddhas, saying, "0 sons of Jin as, 
U 



82 

you know all the stages of knowledge of the Buddhas, past, present and 
future." At the mention of the ten hhumis the curiosity of the other 
Bodhisattvas was awakened, and they solicited, through Muktichandra 
as their mouthpiece, an account of what those Bhumis were. Yajragar- 
bha replied, " a person of honest resolution should expel from his mind 
all doubts and disbelief by his unswerving devotion to hundreds o'^ 
thousands and millions of Buddhas." He was proceeding further, 
when rays of light issued forth from the pores of Buddha's body, brightly 
illuminating the persons and seats of the Devas, Buddhas and others. 
Yajragarbha then continued ; " the condition in which a person meditates 
upon the Lord of religion, the immeasurable Buddha pervading all space, 
formed of the essence of Dharma, introducer of all knowledge and wis- 
dom, is called Pramuditd. He who enters this stage rises superior to all 
the rules that bind the Bodhisattvas, and elevates himself far above ordi- 
nary men. He is taken in the family of Tathagatas, and is not conta- 
minated by his intercourse with people of any low caste." The mental 
tendencies which are characteristic of this Bhumi are — disinterested mercy, 
disinterested love for created beings, charity, resignation, knowledge of 
the S'astras, knowledge of the world, suppression of fear, patience, wor- 
ship of Buddha and devotion to him. These are the ten Dharmas or 
qualities attainable in this stage. 

He who has acquired all these qualities becomes desirous of rising up 
to the stage called Vimala. ■ The characteristics of this stage are, — desire 
for simplicity, for tender-heartedness, for activity, for consulting others* 
for equality, for doing good, for purity, for impartiality, for large-hearted- 
ness and for magnanimity. These are generically called the ten Asayas 
or ' desires,' and they tend to show him the way to good works. 

When these desires are well established and purified, men rise to the 
third stage called Prabhakari. The mental condition of the person who 
has attained this stage is characterised by ten tendencies or chittdsaya-namas- 
hdrdh. These are — 1, purity of mind ; 2, trainquillity of mind ; 3, faith ; 
4, immovableness of mind ; 5, firmness ; 6, ardency of mind ; 7, reten- 
tiveness of mind ; 8, frankness of mind ; 9, magnanimity of mind 
(the tenth is omitted). In this stage men have their essence purified and 
their heart freed from grief. 

In the next, the 4th stage, or that oiArcMshmaii, the aspirant to per- 
fection is enlightened by ten different sorts of religious lights, viz., (1), the 
light that shows the movements or workings of existence ; (2) , that which 



83 

bIiows the movements of regions ; (3) , that which shows the movements 
or workings of qualities ; (4), that which shows the working of Akas'a or 
space ; (5) , that which shows the movements of cognition ; (6) , that which 
shows the movements of desire ; (7) , that which shows the movements of 
form ; (8) , that which shows the movements of formlessness ; (9) , that which 
shows the movements which lead to separation from all ambition ; (10), 
that which shows the movements that lead to separation from magnani- 
mity. When he has acquired these lights, he acquires ten different 
powers which are calculated to fit him for the reception of true know- 
ledge. These are : (1), the desire of remaining undistinguishable ; (2), 
the vision of the three jewels and their equal favor ; (3) , the thought of 
the rise and cessation of the impressions ; (4), the thought of the non- 
creation of nature ; (5) , the thought of men's inclinations ; (6) , the thought 
of the performance of work ; (7), the thought of the annihilation of the 
world ; (8) , the thought of works under all circumstances ; (9) , the thought 
of the beginning and the end ; (10) , the thought of non-existence. 

From this stage the devotee passes to the fifth or Burjayd stage. 
In this he acquires the ten-fold purifications of his mind. (Chittmaya- 
vissuddhimatd.) These are : (1) , the purity of the past of Buddhadharma ; 
(2) , that of the future of the same ; (3) , that of the present of the same ; 
(4) , that of the discipline ; (5) , that of the mind ; (6) , that of sight ; (7) , 
that of means proper and improper ; (8) , that of imagination ; (9) , that 
of reflection of the future of true knowledge; (10), that of capacity for 
assimilating the truth. In this stage a Bodhisattva obtains a variety of 
transcendental powers, and his memory, his judgment, his modesty and 
his patience all become strengthened. 

T he sixth stage is called AbhimtilcM. In this stage the devotee 
acquires the idea of ten religious equalities, namely : (1) , equality in 
the causes of all Dharmas ; (2), equality in the definition of all 
Dharmas ; (3) , equality of the non-origin of all Dharmas ; (4) , equality 
in all Dharmas; (5), equality in the diversion of all Dharmas; 
(6), equality in the purity of all Dharmas ; (7), equality in the absolute- 
ness of all Dharmas ; (8) , that of Niryuha ; (9) , equality in the reflection 
of these Dharmas in one another, like the reflection of the moon in trans- 
parent water ; (10), equality in the lustre of two different Dharmas. In 
this stage man acquires the power of discrimination, or the power of 
judging things aright, understands the world to be mere delusion, and 
alleviates the mundane pains of himself and others. 



84 

Durangamd is the seventh stage. In this stage the man acquires the 
power of chalking out a way for acquiring Bodhi knowledge by wisdom 
and other means. Under no circumstance does his mind go astray 
from the right path. He devotes his whole soul to Tathagata. 

The eighth stage is Achald. One well established in this stage, 
understands all truth about physical organization. 

In the ninth or BddJiumati stage a man can look through the minds 
of others. He always has goodness in a bodily form by him, and Lord 
Buddha presents himself before the vision of his mental eye. 

A Bodhisattva, having received the full development attainable 
in the ninth stage, invades the tenth or Dharmamedhya bhumi. 
When he has performed, to his complete satisfaction, all the duties 
of this stage, he becomes endowed with manifold attributes of wonderful 
power. These ten stages of perfection are similar to the four stages of 
the Yaishnavas and the Sufis. 

Beginning, v^ sr«: =!i'^^^fl=^«f i y§> sr: ^^j^trftre^Kis i 

End. gs^T^ i^«l *nn^WT ^^ji«^ «iPr<T«Hl!i'^'^ i 

Colophon. TffT ^'!^Tft^'^'^55TS(^!rr%T Tm ir?T?iR^^^^TT^: ^uto i 



No. B. 30. 
DUEGATI-PAEIS'ODHANA. 

Substance, paper, 14 x 4 inches. Folia, 22. Lines on a page, 10. 
Extent in s'lokas, 1,196. Date, Samvat 734. Character, Newari. Appear- 
ance, old. Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

Descriptions of certain forms of meditations inculcated by the Lord 
Vajrapani during his sojourn in the Nandana grove of Indra, the audi- 
ence being composed of Devas. The yogas taught were Durgati-parisho- 
dhana-raja, Adiyoga, Karma-raj as'ri, Akalamrityuharana, and so on. 
The work extends to eleven chapters. 



85 
Beginning. \^ inf. '^^Umwmi^ \ ^ a^t ^fr^^f%rsr g^-^ wir^i^ ^o^f tTritT 

^rfww ^^^W^W^I;^ TTSfT^lfTKWft^ Tl'nqpgJIWffaj^ TJig- 

End. T^fltrg^^HTTiflSTT: spR^f^tf^e^^&ff ^^^rfli^'siT^JW^'g- 

Colophon. ?j% ^^•^JifiitrPc^niisra^'CT^^ fT^iiTJifr^TT^cT: ^Ri^f^-^'sr?? ^^wr- 



No. B. 41. 
DVAYIJJS'A AVADANA. 

Substance, paper, 15 X 4i inches. Folia, 94. Lines on a page, G. 
Extent in s'lokas, 2,500. Date, ? Character, Newari. Appearance, 

new. Verse. Incorrect. 

A collection of twenty-two stories illustrating the merits of devo- 
tion to Buddhism and to the duties enjoined by it. The author's 
name is not given ; but from the form of salutation at the beginning of 
the work, it is evident that the work is accepted by the Buddhists to be 
due to a private person. The codex professes to be complete ; but 
owing to errors in numbering the stories, or some other cause, only 
nineteen stories have been found in it- The scene is laid at the Kukkuta 
Vihara near Rajagriha, where As'oka expressed a wish to hear the 
stories, and his spiritual instructor, TJpa Gupta, narrated them, alleging 
them to have been originally related at that place by Buddha himself 
to his disciples. 

I. — Batnavyuha Amdana. The first story is intended to illustrate 
the merit of devoting money for the repairs of Buddhist monuments. 



86 

While the Lord was lecturing his disciples on the merits of alms- 
giving, in came a prince named Katnavyuha, dazzling the eyes of the 
beholders by the splendour of his jewels. After paying his respects to 
the Lord, he departed. The Bhikshus enquired what were the high merits 
which had raised the visitor to such a dizzy eminence ? 

The Lord said in one of his previous existences the Eaja was a 
boatman. But he repaired a broken dilapidated stupa situated at the 
village of Kus'i in the country of Malla, and from the merit thereof had 
been born a prince and owner of profuse wealth. 

Il.-^8'dntamaU Avaddna. The second story (numbered IV in the 
codex) illustrates the merits of charity. 

To show a miracle, Buddha produced a heavenly light from his 
woollen garment. The light delighted a banker so much that he 
immediately gathered some flowers, and threw them over the Lord's 
head. These formed a splendid parasol. The S'reshthi, dying in a short 
time, was born in the heaven of Indra. There he remembered what had 
made him a Devaputra ; he descended on earth, worshipped Buddha, 
heard his discourses, acquired the Bodhi knowledge, and obtained nirvana. 
The Bhikshus asked what was the cause of this banker's speedy elevation. 
The Lord said, " Santamati, a poor banker of Kus'i, always attended the 
lectures of the Buddhist preachers. One day he gave his own food 
(having nothing else to spare) to a Bhikshu, The Bhikshu's benediction 
was, that he should be a rich man and a sincere Buddhist. In a month, 
while pouring water on a neighbouring sttipa, he found that he 
was pouring hot water and rubies and diamonds ; he went to the gh4t 
whence he had drawn the water, and found there a heap of jewels. He 
took them up, but instead of enjoying them, devoted them to charity, 
and always prayed for nirvana. This Santamati," added the Lord, 
" was the present banker who obtained the summum bonum of Buddhist 
faith." 

III. — UtUrm Amdana. A merchant, named Uttirna died in a ship- 
wreck. He went to heaven, and there became a Devaputra. His young, 
wife prayed the Lord to show her in a dream where her husband then was. 
In a dream her husband appeared before her, and informed her what had 
happened. She kept a fast for eight days in a " love-circle" (a'srejJ?"!!^), 
and, after death, was transformed into a Devakanya. She lived iu 
peace with her husband. 

The Bhikshus enquired what had raised the couple so high ? 



87 

The Lord gave the following history of their previous existence : 
"King Prades'ika-mandalina was taught in the doctrine of Ahins'a, 
or non-injury to created beings, by Dharmaruchi, a Eishi, but, forget- 
ting his precepts, Prades'ika killed a hind. The animal cursed him say- 
ing that he should die in a shipwreck. TJttirna is that cursed king." 

IV. — Kshatriyaraja Avaddna. One day while Buddha was preach- 
ing, Indra came down to worship him. The Bhikshus asked why should 
the king of the Devas honor a mortal? Buddha replied, "In one of 
my transmigrations I was a Kshatriya king ; I honored Kshemankara 
in every way, and erected a large stiipa to his honor, and hence my 
greatness." 

V. — Bhdtustejd Avaddna. Dhatusteja, son of Dharmakalpa, a king 
of Dakshinapatha, came to visit the Lord, and was immediately sanc- 
tified. The Bhikshus enquired what the youth had done to deserve 
such honor. The Lord said : " In the 91st kalpa. Lord Yipas'yi lived 
in the metropolis of king Bandhumati. When the lord departed from 
this world, the king caused to be erected on his remains a stupa, a mile 
high, and a merchant's son decorated it with jewels. That king is now 
Dharmakalpa, and the merchant's son is the prince. 

VI. — Chandraprabha Avaddna. Chandraprabha,eoming by the aerial 
way, asked the Lord how the series of transmigrations can be put a stop 
to. Eeceiving the proper answer from Buddha, he returned home. 
The resplendent brightness of Ohandraprabha's person struck the be- 
holders with wonder ; they became inquisitive about the cause of his 
good fortune. His merit consisted in bestowing a golden circle in the 
Great Vihara of Vlpas'yi, who flourished in the 91st kalpa in the 
metropolis of king Bandhumati. That grantor of the golden circle was 
subsequently born in the Kuru family and named Chandraprabha. 

VIL — Divyananda Avaddna. While Buddha was residing at Eaja- 
griha, a householder invited him, feasted him, honored him, and desired 
Buddhahood from him. Buddha complied with his request., " I was 
that householder." 

VIII. — Furm Avaddna. The Bhikshus asked "0 Lord, in what 
way did you get this power of working miracles ?" Lord said, " as a 
Kshatriya king I feasted Buddha Purna for three months. That piece 
of good work has made me great." 

IX. — Dvdrikd Avaddna. While Kas'yapa preached at Benares, a 
girl, being asked for pure water, gave to eight Bhikshus a quantity of 



88 

delicious sherbet. She was borne to heaven, where she never feels 
thirsty. 

X. — S'ukla Avadana. 

XI. — 8'reshthikanyd Amdana. 

XII. — Mdtsaryayukta Avadana. A troop of Brahmans, having 
made their obeisance to Buddha, expressed their desire to enter Pra- 
vrajya or itinerancy. Instantly all were, by a miracle, shaved, and their 
clothes transformed into rags, except one who remained as he was. The 
Lord said, the cause of this exception was, that the person was full of 
Brdhmanie pride. On his solicitations, the Lord changed his clothes 
into rags, but these rags were all dirty. Being asked the cause of 
this, the Lord said, " that Brahman, in one of his former existences, did 
not make his obeisance to Buddha Padmottara, disdaining to bow to a 
S'ramana," 

XIII. — Vihara Avadana. During Buddha's lifetime, the inhabi- 
tants of the city of Vihara were noted for their profligacy. Buddha 
sent some of his Bhikshus to chant a gatha there. This simple expe- 
dient cured the citizens of their shameful immorality. 

XIV. — KushtM Avadana. A leper, without hands and without feet, 
circumambulated the famous stupa of Vipas'yi several times. He was 
restored to his former health and vigour. A voice from heaven then 
recited the following : — 

" He sat before the stdpa of Vipas'yi, covered his body with a heap 
of white cloth, plastered his body with all sorts of perfumes, and then 
set the whole on fire ; the merit of his great deed raised him to the rank 
of a Pratyeka Buddha in one existence; in another he obtained nirvana." 

XV. — Surendradamana Avadana. 

XVI. — Suvarnabha Avadana. 

XVII. — Vapusmaiah Avadana. 

XVIII. — Chandana Avadana. 

XIX. — Surupa Avadana. 

Beginning. >^ I^T *tJi^^ ^'^nnrgrJi^?? I 

srai ^Isn^tg ^tJi'JF^f^w ^^^rftf^ 



89 

'a5!JZ% »?%r5T% 3Z^S l^T^^ I 

End. ?;?qTf^a ^W^%r gs^r ^^sfV f«^^: i 

Wfl%f5f siTWW ^ry.(^?r sitTfi?«lT: ii 

»r^ sif?mfN<^ sisH^^ sitifeirrr: ii 
Colophon. ^ ^J\f^'^!fyvm^^%^^^}^^^ ^v\-i i 



No. 816 A. 
GANAPATI-HRIDATA. 



Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 7i X 3. Folia, 2. Lines on a page, 5. 
Extent in slokas, 30. Character, Newari. Date, ? Prose. Incorrect. 

Mantras for an amulet in praise of Ganapati. The mantras are al- 
leged to have been disclosed to Ananda by Buddha himself when sojourn- 
ing at Kajagriha. Whoever wears or recites them, or hears them recited, 
attains whatever he wishes. The mantras are of the usual mystic charac- 
ter common in Tantric works. They include such phrases as Om namastu 
te Ganapataye svdhdh, Om Oanapataye svdhdh 8fc, The most remarkable 
fact in connexion with this little work is the proof it affords of the Bud- 
dhists having adopted the adoration of Ganes'a, a purely Hindu deity. 

Beginning. \^ srer *ni^^ ^T^qJF'srqffri^^T^ I v^ T^r K^^^ra I ^ ir^T 

Ji<iFif»Tf ^^ifT vKf?i'sif«i ^T^f«?^ffr i^sRi^Nr n MTpf^j^Ffr wm 
12 



90 
^■mifk ^Tjgrftr f%^rftr wf^eif^ i ri^^r, # ^ts^ % Jim^^ 

End. ?;^«tT'^^ WRTSTIflflsn: W ^ ^Tftj^TST!^ ^s^T^fl^ tlW.^^^flT^- 

Colophon. ^n^'inriTfeT'f ^^ifT'B^T'qt 'Bflrai I 



No. A. 9. 
GANDA-VYU'HA. 



1W^. I 

Substance, paper, 17 X 6t. Folia, 232. Lines on a page, 12. Extent 
in s'lokas, 13,929. Character, Newari. Appearance, old. Prose and verse. 
Incorrect. 

The history of Sudhana in search of the perfect knowledge. The 
work is reckoned as one of the nine principal scriptures of the Buddhists, 
and held in high esteem. It was taken to China in the 7th century, and 
was translated into the Chinese language by Amoghavajra during the 
reign of the Tang dynasty. Its Chinese name is Ta-shing-mi-yen- 
king. 

Once upon a time, while residing with Samantabhadra, Manjus'ri 
and others, lord Buddha showed them the marvellous workings of a 
certain mystic position called Sinha-vijrimbhita. As soon as the lord 
assumed that meditative position, the interior of the room expanded to 
an indefinite extent, the floor became thickly studded with sapphires 
and other precious stones, and gigantic pillars of solid emeralds sup- 
ported the roof. A Bodhisattva, named Ras'miprabha, decorated the 
sky with clouds of various kinds, some showing heavenly flora, some 
raining neetarous perfumes. 

Then S^riputra, approaching Manjus'ri, made him acquainted with 
the presence of a host of holy Bhikshus. With them Manjus'ri started on a 
journey to the southern regions, and settled himself in a grove where stood 
the Yih£ra of Maladhvajavyuha, where he had formerly held his medita- 
tions. On this the people of the neighbouring town of Danyakara came 
in crowds to receive his instruction and his benediction. The lord taught 
them, and singled out one young man to be the object of his special favour. 



91 

This joung man was named Sndhana from the fact that immediately after 
his birth his father had suddenly become very rich. Manjus'ri narrated 
to him the marvellous deeds of Lord Buddha. Sudhana chanted the 
praise of Manjus'ri in sweet and melodious verses, and declared himself a 
candidate for Bodhi knowledge. 

Manjus'ri advised him to have the benefit of instruction from Me^ 
ghas'ri, who resided at Mount Sugriva in the country called Eamavarta. 
Meghas'ri shifted the burden of instructing Sudhana to Sagaramegha of 
Sagaramukha, who on his turn advised Sudhana to repair to Supratisthita 
of S%ara on the way to Lanka. Sudhana was again disappointed. Ha 
was directed to proceed to Vajapura, a city of Dravida, to receive instruc- 
tions from a Dravidian named Megha. Megha professed his ignorance 
of Bodhi knowledge. 

By his advice Sudhana repaired to Saradhvaja at Milanapurana, 
the land's end of Jambudvipa ; thence to the Bhikshuni As'd, the wife of 
Suprabha of Samudravelati to the east of Mahaprabhu; thence to 
Bhishmottarasanghesha of Nalapura ; thence to Jayashinayatana in the 
country of Is'asha ; thence to Maitrayani, the daughter of Sinhaketu, at 
the city of Sinhavijrimbhita ; thence to Sudars'ana of Trinanjana ; thence 
to a boy named Indriyas'vara of the city of Sumukha in the country 
called S'ramana Mandala ; thence to the TJpasika Prabhuta of Samu- 
draprasthana : thence to the patriarch Vidvan of Mah^sambhava . 
thence to the banker Eatnachuda of Sinhapoti; thence to Samantanetra, 
a manufacturer of perfumery, at the city of Samantamukha in Miilaka ; 
thence to Nala of Naladhvaja ; thence to the king Mahdprabha of Supra- 
bha ; thence to the Upas'ika Achalasthira ; thence to Sarvagrama of 
Toshala in Mitatoshala ; thence to Utpalabhuti in Prithurashtra ; thence 
to the slave Paisa of Kulagara ; thence to the banker Jayottama of 
Ndnuhara ; thence to the Bhikshuni Sinhavyasambhita of Kalingavana 
in S'ronapasanta ; thence to Bhagavati Sumitra of Eatnabhijjiha in 
Durga ; thence to the patriarch Yes^hila of Subhaparangama ; thence 
to the Bodhisattva Avalokites'vara of Potalaka ; thence to Ananyagamf 
of Pashatmandala, and finally to Mahadeva of Dvaravati. All the 
places mentioned above belong to the region called Dakshindpatha or 
southern India. 

Leaving Dekkan in the south, Sudhana directed his steps by the 
advice of Mahadeva towards Magadha. In that country he paid his 
devotion to eight Eatridevatas, or goddesses of night. These had 



92 

different names, and dwelt in different localities, two of which Kapila- 
vastu and Bidhimanda are well known in the history of the Buddhist 
religion. 

But none could afford full satisfaction to Sudhana, and he re- 
mained unpossessed of perfect knowledge. He then entreated Gopa, the 
wife, and Maya the mother, of the great Buddha for instruction, and 
here he was partially successful. They recommended him to Suren- 
drabha at the house of Indra, and she, to a young teacher Vis'vamitra 
of Kapilavastu. At every change of teacher, the amount of his know- 
ledge increased, and with redoutled zeal he applied himself to the 
acquisition and perfection of knowledge. He received several valuable 
lectures from the patriarch Surendra and the goldsmith Muktasara of 
Varukutcha,from a Brahman Siviratra of Dharmagrama in Dekkan, from 
a boy S'risambhava, and a girl S'rimati of Sumukha. From Sumukha 
he travelled to Samudrakatiha where Maitreya told him plainly that 
none but Manjus'ri himself would be able to make his knowledge perfect. 
Thus after passing through a hundred austerities he went back to Man- 
jus'ri, who was living in the vicinity of Sumana. Sudhana, by the favor 
of Manjus'ri at last obtained full and perfect knowledge from the holy 
Samantabhadra.* 
Beginning. >^ 5r: '^T^^^^TfVg^Ki: I Ji'S^'^fl'^i'^WT^firsrrf^ ^r fsjsr^WHi I 

a^rifr5^^^«wft(^rJi^qTwi'ai'HTlwiiftd4jflif5WT'ncM<*ii<i'yr^ji-ri- 
^ lurrxrr^^^TrT ^f^^ftr ^ttopji^ Ti-^reTSTT firft^^raft^lft^- 

* Vide passim the Introduction to my edition of the Lalita Vistara, pp. 8 f. 



93 

J si \J 

i7r^i'g*jfl'Ti«?r^' I {V^^«r ^=^^^^7^ ?i(^T^i'fiJrrr: ^flrfti?^! i 

^Ji^i^ ■^■^mi fir^'cffT ^ I ^rr^sin'jftr'ss^^r'riTf v^\^ fsi- 

End. ■Si^fl^TW^ wii^sfTfl^^T: ^^^: ^fe^K^ '^ tlf^g'WT ^T?§fl^- 

Colophon. ^T^^T fl^^^jgram ^^r ^a?: s'^^'r^^T'irf'H'^'TJg^f^'i^^^- 



No. 816 B. 
GRAHAMATRIKA DHARANI. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 6t X 2 J, Folia, 1 7. Lines on a page, 5, 
Character, New^ri, Date, ? Appearance, old. Prose. Incorrect. 

Mystic mantras for the adoration of the nine planets. The man- 
tras were disclosed to a congregation of gods by Buddha himself when 
residing in the Alakavati mansion of Indra. The mantras are of the 
Tantric type, full of mystic particles. It is enjoined that, after wor- 
shipping the planets in certain mystic diagrams drawn on the floor of a 
room, the mantras should be recited seven times daily, from the 7th to 
the 14th of the waxing moon in Kartika, and the rite should be concluded 
on the 15th at midnight. The rite insures longevity to ninety-nine 
years, prevents all evils resulting from adverse planets, and makes the 
adorer capable of remembering the history of his former existences. 
This Hindu ritual must be of a comparatively modern date. 



94 
Beginning. ^ ^rw wira^ ^Tigins95ra I l^ «^t ^fT^^ffwr ^v^ wi^sr 

5JTf^q#!i ^ IT?? ^ifsig^iT Ti'^r^f I iniig[TT '^ ire trf^^sr 
Tr?w=#sf I ^^wraw^T^ "^ Sim ^rf^'B^wT ^i^r^sr i ^wfwtiir 

s?iiT ?Tf«TO=^T ii'^T^'^sr 1 f^^fsRci^^w '^ srra ^rf^^if w^ig- 
pqrsffr«f<!rfl'^T3i^T^^-m tta ^'flTsti^ i^^f^frr ^ i '^^ i§^ ^^- 

^J^ WJI^fffi^«SI«T^^^ S[^i%V!a>t'? swag TKltT f^^?} 1 '5)iwV 

fww siTtiiiiq^xrfsfi I ^mf^fr^ ^T'tRi'SKf'n I ^iif^li^i^T'irf I 
^Ji^'T fn??i v^qsffT-^ I ^-sf gslg'^isrr ^Tqi??j§T ':'gr wf^isifn i 



95 
End. ^^ ■a' g^ ^"^T ^Tf^fSiT^: vr^ ^T'^ wn^fgRr ^m ^^jm^H^n 

Colophon. ^T^^rmrs^RTTT'R^K'^t ^nm i 



No. B. 27, 
GUNAK A R ANDA-Y YITH A. 

Substance, paper, 17| X 5i. Folia, 120. Lines on a page, 8. Extent 
in s'lokas, 4,740. Character, Newai-i. Appearance, old. Incorrect. 

An account of tlie character, religious teachings, and miracles of Arya 
Avalokites'vara, a Eedhisattva. Avalokites'vara refused to enter Bud- 
dhahood until all living creatures would be in possession of the Bodhi 
knowledge. He had a long life. He had seen three or four Buddhas 
pass through their mundane career during his lifetime. He had been a 
friend to Yipas'yi, to S'ikhi, to Jina, and to Sakya Muni who had 
held him in high esteem. His principal occupation was to provide sal- 
vation to sufferers in hell ; but he felt equally for all. In one of his 
philanthropic tours he passed through Ceylon or Sinhala, Benares, and 
Magadha, granting salvation, and preaching the gospel of Buddha's reli- 
gion even to worms and insects. Even the gods of heaven were not be- 
yond the range of his benevolence. He granted one Sukundala, a poor 
god, immense wealth, and above all showed him the way to nirvana by 
sending him to the Jetavana grove. Eeclaiming the wicked, relieving 
sufferers, providing food for the famine-stricken, curing the diseased, 
were the daily routine of his duties. He attained to such high distinc- 
tion by his noble deeds that he was called the Sangha-ratna or the 
"jewel of the Buddhist Church." 

The work opens with a request from Jinas'ri to Jayas'ri, the great 
preacher of Bodhimanda at Buddha Gaya, to give an account of 
the origin of the " three jewels." This most secret and most myste- 
rious subject was first divulged by Upa Gupta to As'oka at the Kukku- 
tar^ma Yihara in Pataliputra. According to Upa Gupta, Lord Jina, 



96 

the destroyer of Mara's pride, is the Buddha-ratna or " Buddha jewel." 
Others who will hereafter rise to Buddhahood by Bodhi knowledge will 
likewise be Buddha-ratnas. The all-powerful intelligence that impels 
men towards Bodhi knowledge is Dharma-ratna or " the jewel of reli- 
gion." Arya Avalokites'vara, the son of Jina, resplendent in his know- 
ledge of Buddhism, and firm in his faith, is the Sangha-ratna or " jewel ■ 
of the Church." Other Bodhisattvas, and Arhats who revel in the four 
Brahmas, and have a thorough command over their ownselves, are, also 
jewels of the Church. 

Having thus explained the mystic trinity of Buddha, Dharma and 
Sangha, Upa Gupta, at the request of As' oka, instructed him in the 
practice of Poshadhavrata, and gave an account of the Sangha-ratna in 
the following manner : — 

Once on a time Lord Buddha performed an ecstatic meditation 
named sarvasans'odhana or " the purifier of every thing." No sooner he 
sat in that posture, than golden rays illuminating the whole province 
were seen proceeding from some unknown region to that place. Su- 
varnavarana Vishkambhi a saint, struck with wonder at this miracle, 
asked the Lord whence did the rays proceed ? The Lord said " from 
Arya Avalokites'vara who, by the command of Jina, is now preaching 
the doctrine of Nirvana at Aviehi, the stygian lake of fire. These rays, 
after having purified the wretched people of that hell, are come "here to 
enlighten the ignorant and the sinful." At the request of "Vishkambhi, 
the Lord gave several stories illustrating the power and the goodness 
of Avalokites'vara. 

The Lord said, once on a time when Vipas'yi was preaching on 
earth, Avalokites'vara shot forth his holy light for the spiritual benefit 
of the residents of hell. Vipas'yi gave an account of the importance of 
Buddha-ratna. Before the creation of the world, the first Buddha, 
vsrho was pure effulgence of light without a speck, held a samadhi named 
Lokasanjanana or " creation." Forthwith S'iva, Brahma, Vishnu, Siirya, 
Chandra &o. were generated. The first Buddha allotted distinct works 
of creation to these. 

Vishkambhi solicited the Lord to tell him by what samddhi 
Avalokites'vara had acquired the power of saving the souls of the sinful. 
The Lord said " by thousands of samadhis." He said, even he himself 
was once benefitted by Avalo kites' vara's power of saving men. 

The Lord said, " in one of my previous existences, I was Siilhala, 



97 

son of Sinha, a merchant of the capital of Siiihakalpa. Sinhala led a 
nautical expedition. His vesBels were overtaken hy a storm, and wrecked 
of£ the island called Tamradvipa or copper island ; but fortunately no 
life was lost. By the grace of the Lord to whom Sinhala was very much 
devoted, the passengers safely reached the shores of Tamradvipa. 
That island was inhabited by Eakshasis, who could assume any form 
they wished. On seeing the ship-wrecked people, they assumed the 
charming forms of celestial nymphs, expressed their concern at their 
distress, accepted them as husbands, and led them home. One night 
when all were asleep, Sinhala saw the lamp in his room laugh. Sinhala 
asked the lamp the reason for its laughter. The lamp said, " the 
nymphs with whom you live here are Eakshasis in disguise. You are 
in imminent danger for your lives. If you want to save yourselves, 
there stands a horse named Balaha on the sea-shore ready at your 
service. Mount on his back, but do not open your eyes until you 
land safely on the other side of the ocean." Siiihala assembled all his 
companions, and induced them to follow the lamp's advice. They all 
mounted the horse. The horse rose to the sky. The Eakshasis, seeing 
their prey, which they had thought was most secure in their grasp, 
flying away, raised loud lamentations. Their husbands were touched 
with pity, opened their eyes contrary to their promise, and dropped 
down into the ocean, where they were devoured by their wives. 
Sinhala alone escaped safe. The Eakshasi who had fallen to his lot, 
came to Sinhala's father in all her bewitching beauty, and complained 
that she had been forsaken by Sinhala who had married her. But Siii- 
hala was successful in making his father understand what she really 
was. The female ogre then proceeded to the king of the country to 
proffer a complaint against Sinhala. The king was convinced by her 
that her story was true, and, on Sinhala's refusal to take her back, 
accepted her aS his own queen. In a short time, however, he with all his 
family was devoured by her. Sinhala was, by the unanimous consent of 
the citizens, raised to the throne. He expelled the Eakshasis from 
Tamradvipa, and named it Sinhala after himself. 

"I am, Vishkambhi, that Siiihala; Avalokites'vara is the horse 
Balaha, Mahallaka the Bodhisattva is the king, and Anupansa is that 
Edkshasi. The merits of Avalokites'vara may be counted by myriads. 
In one of the pores of his body there are thousands of heavenly choris- 
ters, iu another millions of Eishis," 
13 



98 

Vishkamthi then heard from the Lord the benefits of repeating 
the formula of six letters or Shadakshari Mantra, and obtained that 
mantra at Benares. 

The work was translated into Chinese, according to the Eev. 
S. Seal's Tripithaka, (p. 35) under the name of Mau-chu-pa'o-ts'ang- 
to-lo-ni-king, its Sanskrit equivalent being Eatna-karandaka-vyilha- 
siitra. It is reckoned among the Mahdyana Sutras. 

Beginning. >^ «rw ^^rsw^rr^ i sm: ^^^'i^rftw^Kr: i 

<f fi^" »pw i^r ^^ %ra?i ^mnf II 

w^T ^rraswr^'sr q'^rfi? trftrePTsf ii 

?r^ ^rt^^^T'?* -^^ vAimi^-^ II 

ft^rssj;^ jwr ^fir';'?'r %^T(JI5t: ii 

v^f^fr m{^ %Ts^sr %f^j?»^ fgisri^^ I 

^rfii^rarf ¥m siirf^^ ^wr^rr ii 

^^^ ?rw irerfir^r siq^it^fii^Taif^tT i 
^^^' wiT^t ^w«srTr«ir^^cr ii 

JTW ^^f'WI'^ TTgw^riJ g^qT^?pr II 

g*rrftfrr^»f ^^:^ ?r<5wt ^^itt^i^tt^ii 

^^ItrET! ^fsf: ^T^r: 'JT^^T^r fl'^ra^IT: II 
ffHJ ajTsrq^ ttthtt: TT^fjf^T^ ^jjw: i 



99 
n^ %Ts4'r iT^rewi trffif^'^T farsntjiai: i 

(Tg^rrsr ^xrrf^^ g^rsnjg m ^xr ii 
End. i;fa oRjpsigr^Tci ^r ^^sPt w%^r! i 

Colophon. ^ fai^^iarqf^?a3i?f'!i^gwfttcT^^T5^rwrf*fl^xir'!!^TK"^ai^- 



No. B. 36. 
KALT^NA-PANCHAVINS ATIKA. 

SubstaHce, yellow paper. Folia, 14. Lines on each page, 6. Extent in 
slokas, 250. Character, Newari. Appearance, old. Verse. Incorrect. 

A hymn in praise of Buddha in twenty-five sragdhara verses. 
Each verse ensures a particular blessing, and so the twenty-five are 
called ' twenty-five blessings.' By Amritananda. 

Beginning. ^Wtt^: ^«Wf^f««i^f^^w^rF«% ++^' 

^sswim ^.- fiirmw g uf^^fq ^x-f(\ firsfrt ^raf t ii 
End. « ^ftflnsramrf^: ^ srzsK'^qTitwiTwistJi: 

^^iii ^: f^rw 9 u Pg^Pi '9^'rr f^^fii Trfl% ff i 
Colophon, x.^ ^qifsr^^r ^^ri!TTwN»iffr^r ^^.rni'^f^'cf^Trr '9«rar i 



100 

No. 
KAPIS'A AVADANAM. 

Substance, paper, lOJ X 3. Folia, 35. Lines on each page, 6. Extait 
in slokas, 590. Character, Newari. Appearance, old. Incorrect. Prose 
and verse. 

A story in illustration of Beneficence. Lord Buddha held a large 
assembly of his followers. S'aripatra requested the Lord to pronounce 
an eulogium on charity. The Lord gave them the following story, 
said to have been first told by Vipas'yi long before the lord's advent. 

Once on a time Tatavisuta was born a monkey, Jnanakara by name. 
In consequence of his sinful character the whole forest was beset with 
darkness at the time of his birth, and famine raged on all sides. Some 
time after, Dipankara's presence in the forest restored it to light, and 
there was plenty of everything. Jndndkara, wondering at this sudden 
change, gave a jack-fruit to the worker of the miracle. Dipankara gave 
him instruction in the philosophy of Buddhism, and promised him 
transformation into a man. He learned the character of man from a 
friend, and, dying, was born a merchant's son at Kamarthi. He was 
named Dharmas'ri. When Dharmas'ri was very young, Dipankara, 
who was passing by, asked him to give the applicant anything that he 
could afford with good will. Dharmas'ri gave a handful of dust, which 
was instantly changed into gold. He gave another handful of dust, 
which was changed into dainties for the Sangha. Dipankara granted 
him a boon, saying, " for this good conduct, you are to become Sarva- 
nanda, the king of Dipavati. Sarvananda always used to please 
Dipankara with food, and raiment." 

Then the Lord gave the assembled multitude a lecture on morals, 
diversifying it with a description of the Satya Tuga and the duties which 
appertained to that Yuga. 

Beginning. ^ ^tts^^T^ sre: ( 

'Bsllfq ffHlf^ ^^f»il fl^ ^^T^wirg ^vjTSigws II 



101 

»ra^ 'TO »T^rftf5T WTWTH ^T^TT^ JIIW^ ^^T ff^^ I 

«rw ^reTff ^Tw^ ^^f%s ^WT f% W^^wi'g '^sr: II 

End 51% ^% ir«iT ^-^ ^'tsK^ JZ'^rsiw i 

■^f^ftf^ fl-^rsim! Slim «%'B'frg<: I 
Tiff 1^ SJlfKI^T f^^: ^^W. ^"5 II 

Colophon. ?;fir ^t ^MiHN<i ? '^w^fsi^^r «rra T^^rs'aira: i Tf^ ^f<f jir- 
^r^f ^iira i 



No. 815. 
KAEANDAVTU'HA. 



Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 13 X 3. Folia, 82. Lines on a 
page, 5. Extent in s'lokas, 1600. Character, Newari. Date, ? Prose. 
Incorrect. 

A highly amplied version of the work noticed under the name of 
Gunakarandavyuha. The work is in prose, but it has obviously been 
amplified from the poetical version abovenamed. The names and in- 
cidents have been in some cases modified or changed, and many new 
incidents and stories have been worked in. But the purport remains the 
same — the glorification of the great Bodhisattva Arya Avalokites'vara. 
The difi'erenceB are not of such a character as to need detailed speoifica- 



102 

tion. The •work belongs to the class Mahaydna Siitra, and, as usual irii 
that class of writings, does not bear the name of its author. Its name- 
does not occur in the Rev. S. Beal's Tripithaka. 

Beginning, v^ sr^T wi^^ ^Tigni%fqf?^?;i«l I ^ vm'^ t^f^fr gjj^ «ji 
End. ^^ ^^r^wn^'^T *ffl^?r: "ji^T Tvxm n^^m\ sisRifr: i ^^ «t- 

fl^T?ira^T: ^^^5 ^^^^5 SI^flT: I ^ ^^RF^'gil'^^T^^^r^T 

f%g^«'tT<JW ^ ty I « •! ty t: ^rh'tit: i ?;«^«^T'?^Jmr«r ^ta^hiw ^ 
Colophon. ^ ^iaf^T<^^ 'fro fl^T^TJisestw^r^ g»ji^ i 



No. 816 0. 
EAYIKUMAKA KATHA'. 

Substance, yellow paper, 10 >C 4. Folia, 18. Lines on a page, S-. 
Character, Newari. Appearance, old. Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

A story of one of Buddha's former existences. It was related by 
Upa Gupta to As'oka as a narrative which had been originally told by 
Buddha himself to his followers at Gridhrakuta to account for an in- 
curable sore on his toe. The occasion for the recital was offered by a 
S'akya youth having at early dawn pelted a large stone at Buddha to kill 
him, and the stone falling on his toe caused a deep wound. The follow- 
ers enquired why such an accident had happened, and Buddha in reply 
gave the story. Formerly there lived in the city of Kampilya a king 
named Satyarata. His chief queen Lakshmana was for a time childless, 
but on the king's taking a second wife named Sudharma, the former bore 
a son, who was named Lolamantra. On the death of the king, Lolaman- 
tra succeeded to the kingdom, but soon after Sadharma bore a posthu- 
mous child who, at the time of birth, had a jewelled coronet on his head. 
The boy was named Kavikumara. When the news of his birth was 
brought to the king, astrologers informed him that the boy would for 



103 

certain set him aside. The king thereupon deputed a person to kill the 
child, but the news of this had already been communicated to Sudharma 
by Oovishdna, a favourite of the king, and so she deposited her child 
■with a fisherman (Kaivarta), and, taking his new-born daughter, sent 
her to the king as the child she had borne. A few years after, the 
king's astrologer, seeing the boy playing at king in a field, knew that 
it was the son of Sudharma, and informed the king of the imposition 
that had been practised on him. The king was greatly incensed, and de- 
puted a large army to kill the boy ; but the boy had timely information, 
and, taking the jewelled coronet from his mother, ran away, and, hiding 
first in the house of a potter, then in that of a hatter, then in a forest, 
at last fell into a river. The king's messenger, thinking that would put 
an end to the life of the boy, came back, and reported the circumstance 
to the king. The boy, however, was saved from death by a Taksha. 
From the Taksha he repaired to a forest where he was attacked by a 
hunter, but a Vidyadhara interposed, and cut off the head of the assail- 
ant, and taught the youth the science of magic. By the power of this 
magic the youth assumed the form of a beautiful damsel, and returned 
to the dominion of his brother. The king Lolamantra was enchanted 
by the beauty and the musical accomplishments of the damsel, and 
invited her to his bed-chamber, but, when he attempted to embrace her, 
Kavikumara assumed his masculine form, and killed him. Buddha 
said, " I am that Kavikumara, and because I had killed my brother, I 
was doomed to hell for many thousand years, and now a small remnant 
of my sin has given me this sore." 

The work professes to form a part of a large work named Vratdva- 
ddna-m&ld. 

Beginning. ^^ sj^t ^ww?rra i 

If^^^^^^'^T ^^^■^'^ra: gflW^^Wrr^^ g5|#r% ff tlT^: II \ II 
^ ^T: ^if^ %TT ^K*«)"(m^ 'i^^ ^ '? ^ms 

€ flrg^niwr ^fsi^K^'^'f ^rg-«T«iTffr ^^ ii ^ ii 



104 

ti^^^: srsjiitiT^Fsrffl'smrrflWff 5t^Tf«5rRfj'^ ^^"srra vm ii ^ n 

End. 'gJi'^Tf^ff fl%f^ ^j^s^mre?rg<:; ^^ ^wqm ^^f^^: siaingrx:*? i 

J "^ " J 

Colophon. \Tfi ^nj^Kf^hvm^T ^f^fwr^^um ^wtTiT i 



105 

No. B. 23. 
KRIYASANGRAHA-PANJIKA. 

Substance, palm-leaf, 12^ X 2. Folia, 166. Lines on a page, 7. Ex- 
tent in s'lokas, 4,285. Character, Newari. Appearance, old. Prose and 
verse. Incorrect. 

No. B 10. Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 12 >< 3. Folia, 220. Lines 
on a page, 7. Extent in s'lokas, 4,285, Character, Newari. Appearance, 
fresh. Date, Samvat 1859. Incorrect. 

A collection of rituals. By Kuladatta. In its general character 
the work bears a close relation to the Hindu Tantric digests. The co- 
dex begins with the definitions of a spiritual guide and his disciple. Then 
comes the ceremony for erecting and consecrating a Vihara. One de- 
sirous of erecting a Vihara should proceed to his spiritual guide on an 
auspicious day and under an auspicious asterism, and, after paying some- 
thing in the shape of Dakshin^, thrice ask his permission to erect a 
Vih&ra. The request should be made in the following terms : " I am, 
Sir, an Upasaka. I am desirous of building a Vihara ; I solicit your 
permission." From the time of serving this notice, the spiritual guide 
should employ himself in such ceremonies as are required previous to 
the erection, particularly relating to those for producing materials and 
for removing obstructions, and he should count his beads one hundred 
thousand times, repeating the mystic formula of Chakres'a, or of the 
divinity he usually worships. When the number of repetitions is 
complete, he should proceed to the examination of a site for the 
building. A piece of land covered by inauspicious trees is unsuitable 
for a Vihara. Land with pippala trees on the east, pentaptera Arjuna on 
the south-east, Butea frondosa on the south, fig trees on the south-west, 
silk-cotton trees on the west, Vakula (Mimosops elengi) on the north- 
west, glomorous fig trees on the north, and thorny trees on the north- 
east, is pronounced inauspicious. A triangular piece of ground, or one 
with uneven surface and full of pits is to be avoided. Land situated 
on the south-east, the south, the south-west, the west, and the north- 
west sides of a town or corner is unsuitable. Soil mixed with broken pots, 
grease, oil or milk, and sacrificial grounds, and cremation ghauts, 
are impure. But hills, and places where there are Ohaityas, As'ramas, 
penance groves and temples are pure. Viharas should be erected 
14 



106 

on these. A square plot of ground stretching towards the east, or the 
north, is the most auspicious. The site for a Vihara should have 
tanks full of white, red or blue lotuses on the north; mango, jdma 
and kadamba groves interspersed with large flowering trees on the 
east ; punnaga, p^rijata, and other trees with sweet-scented flowers, 
and with the underground covered with jasmines &c. on the south ; 
and shady trees like pippala, jack &o. and juicy plants, on the west. 
The sound of Bina, flute,, tom-tom &c. are auspicious. For Brah- 
manas earth of a white colour, and having the smell of curdled milk, 
ghi &c. and a sweet taste is auspicious ; for Eshatriyas, that of a red 
colour, having the scent of lotus, champaka &c., and astringent taste ; 
for Vais'yas, that of yellow colour, and having the flavour of wine 
and of the exudation from the temples of elephants, and sour taste ; 
for S'lidras, that of a black colour, no smell and bitter and pungent 
taste is preferable. 

There are several different modes for finding out what land is suit- 
able for what caste, and also what land is suitable for a Vihara. Dig a 
pit one or two cubits square, place white flowers on the east, red on the 
west, yellow on the north, and blue on the south sides of the pit. The 
colour of the flower that withers the latest will indicate the caste for 
which the land is fitted for a Vihara. Again, pour a quantity of wates 
into the selfsame pit, light a lamp on an earthen pot. If it produces 
a white flame on the east, it is fit for Brahmanas, if a red flame on the 
west, it is for the warrior caste, and so forth. There are other modes 
for finding the same thing out. Some say the city in which a Vihara 
is to be erected should be situated on the northern, some say on the 
southern bank of a river. 

When the Vihara is to be consecrated by sacrifice, the Aoharya, 
thoroughly versed in the three samddhis, should sit in the evening 
on a square diagram well cleansed with cow-dung ; he should first worship 
the three jewels and praise the ten Dikpalas by chanting gAthas, and 
then, with the left knee touching the ground, and the hands folded, ask 
them for land by uttering certain gSthas. 

Then turning towards the south and plaeiiig before him an earthen 
pot shaped like a crescent, he should scatter over it charcoal dust from 
a cremation ground, and also blue fliowers. The next ceremony is that 
of lighting the Kopagni^-a fire taken from the hearth of the Chandala 
who guards the cremation ground. In this fire, burning with full 



107 

blaze, the A'oharya should pour forth libations with the sound of hum 
bursting from his throat and with the chant of the awful formula " Nila- 
varnam Nilambharana bhushitam" &c. Then he should employ himself 
in removing * salyas' or suoh evil working bones as may be underground. 
Then follow the ceremonies of Vastu worship, worship of Viharadevata, 
measurement of the ground with a string, observation of omens, exami- 
nation of the Vastu serpent, laying of the foundation stone, division of 
the Vihara into rooms, felling of trees for the Vihara, different measures 
of these trees according to the difference of caste, &c. 

The work then lays down rules for building a dwelling-house. 
The table of measurement is as follows : — 

7 atoms make 1 anda (egg). 

7 an das „ 1 sukshmaraja or 

minute powder. 

7 sukshmarajas „ 1 s'as'araja. 

7 s'as'arajas „ 1 ekadharaja. 

7 ekadharajas „ 1 saraja. 

7 sarajas „ 1 yuka. 

7 yukas , 1 yava or barley. 

6 yavas „ 1 kaniyas'anguli. 

7 yavas „ 1 madhyamcinguli. 

8 yavas „ , , 1 jyeshthanguli. 

11 angulis „ 1 vitasti. 

1 vitasti „ 1 cubit. 



» 



The room of a Vihara in which the Lord's image is to be placed 
should be painted with the representations of Tathdgatas, Bodhisattvas, 
the goddess of knowledge and Vidyadharas. A pair of eyes and a 
pair of water-pots are to be painted on every door, on the outer face of 
the door the ten figures of a water-pot, an ear &o. ; at the top of the win- 
dows Tathagatas, chosen Bodhisattvas, and various decorations. In the 
interior of the room, just against the image, should the Bodhi tree be 
painted, with Varuna and Lokadhipas on the right and left of the 
image. Varuna should be painted white, with two hands holding a 
terrible noose. On the right side of the door, should be painted the 
two fierce images of Mahabala, and Mahakala, — Mahabala black with 
two hands, one face, and three eyes at once red and circular, his hairs 
brown and raised upwards, his face fierce with protuberant teeth, with 



108 

tiger skin for clothes and eight serpents for ornaments, touching the right 
shoulders with the four fingers of the left, and the left shoulder with 
those of the right hand. 

The figure of Mahakala is nearly the same but made fiercer by a 
garland of skulls. 

On the left side of the door should be painted the king and the 
queen of Hareta birds facing each other, the queen seated on an eme- 
rald throne, white, exceedingly beautiful, with jewelled staff in hand, and 
ever engaged in one of her five hundred frolics. The king should be 
represented as sitting on a throne of rubies. The painted figures are 
to be consecrated by ceremonies peculiar to each. 

The work then enters upon the subject of ordination, A disciple 
desirous of renouncing the world should take a solemn vow, with folded 
hands, before his spiritual guide, in the following words : 

" I such and such a person, take shelter with Dharma, take shelter 
with Buddha, take shelter with the Sangha for ever." The spiritual 
guide should then communicate to him the five S'ikshapadas or Primary 
Lessons. The disciple should promise to take nothing not given to 
him, to renounce double-dealing, falsehood, and the use of wine, during 
the course of his whole life, and solicit his spiritual guide to grant him 
the light of the Five Lessons in the following words : — " Grant me, O 
Lord, the protection of the three, grant all that an TJpasaka wants, such 
as the Five Lessons &c. ; my name is such and such, I solicit the favour 
of my Acharya in investing me as a Bhikshu." After this, his head 
should be shaved, leaving only the coronal hair. Then the Guru should 
try the firmness of his disciple's determination by questions, and, hav- 
ing satisfied himself of his sincerity, should anoint him with waters 
brought from the four oceans, and make him put on a piece of ochre- 
colored cloth. The Neophite should announce his entrance into the 
order by repeating the following word three times : " I, of such and such a 
name, throw away the signs of a householder's state for ever, and receive 
those of a hermit." Then he should place himself entirely under the 
protection of the ' three jewels' by reciting the formula — " I take re- 
fuge with Dharma, I take refuge with Buddha, I take refuge with 
Sangha." After having received the ten commandments from the 
Guru, he should have recourse to the following formula — "As my 
Lord never neglects the duties of life, so I too promise never to deviate 
from the path of duty in my life." Then he should request his guru 



109 

to favour him with an alms-bowl and a piece of ochre- colored cloth. 
He should call the whole congregation around hinij place his right knee 
on the ground, and with folded hands, say, " I am named such and such, 
bring that piece of cloth to me, let it remain here that the congregation 
may have confidence in me, and delight to see me. Bring that 
piece of cloth, UpSdhydya, I request you, let it remain here for the 
satisfaction of the congregation. Bring that piece of cloth, Lord, 
that I may inspire confidence." On the Achdrya's handing him over 
the consecrated cloth, he should wear it, and thenceforth be one of the 
Bhikshus. 

The text is full of technical terms, and not always intelligible. 

Beginning. \^ "^w ^^^g'^T^ I 

End. f^<l^rnTi(?) firfii^ vm ^¥?rr '^^»Kr ft^j^T I 

^^g'^TS^ %f%TS'«i ^ 'ftq^(.P) WIT ^v II 

Colophon. ?;fir »]'^PTfefiftr:^siTqwsftf^^'Tif^^f'^«rfifi«rre^^Trflifi5Rrew- 



no 

No. B. 32. 
KUS'A JATAKA. 

I 

Substance, paper, 161 X 4f. Folia, 73. Lines on a page, 8. Extent 
in s'lokas, 2,153. Character, Newari. Date, ? Appearance, old. Verse. 
Incorrect. 

Au account of a fast called Poshadhavrata, illustrated by a tale 
regarding the origin of the Ikslidku race, and the miraculous trans- 
formation of one of the descendants of Ikshaku. This descendant, 
named Kus'a, was no other than Buddha himself in a former life. The 
work professes to be a part of a large collection of tales, which bears 
the title of ' Mahavasvavadana-Eatha.' The story in question is said to 
have been first related to Eaja As'oka by XJpa Gupta who had heard 
it from Buddha himself. The occasion for it was given by the story of 
Bodhisattva's destroying the wicked Mara by the sound of a hiccough. 
The Bhikshus all expressed their wonder at the tale of so great a 
miracle, and Sakya Muni related to them a story of which the following 
is an abstract : 

Subandhu of Benares was the lord of sixty thousand cities. In the 
bed-chamber of the royal palace, there sprang up, all of a sudden, a 
large number of sugarcane trees. From one of these, a boy was pro- 
duced, who was named Ikshvaku after his birth-place. On the demise 
of Subandhu, Iks'hvaku ascended the throne. He had five hundred 
wives of whom Avuda was the chief. Avuda obtained from Indra a, 
pill which promoted pregnancy. This she dissolved in water, and took 
a small quantity of the mixture, distributing the rest of it to her rivals. 
Every one of them gave birth to a son of whom Avuda's child was the 
most ugly ; but it had on its person all the signs of a royal personage. 
All the children had the cognomen of Kus'a, such as, Indrakus'a, 
Devakus'a &c., after the kus'a grass at the extremity of which their 
mothers had partaken of the medicinal water. Kus'a, the son of Avuda, 
was, as the eldest and born of the chief queen, raised to the throne, and 
he married Sudars'and, the daughter 6i the king of Kanyakubja in 
Siirasena. Sudars'and finding her husband very ugly, left his house, 
and went over to her father's. Kus'a too proceeded to Kanyakubja, 



Ill 

and there displayed Ms skill in various arts to win the heart of hia 
consort. By the advice of his father-in-law, he placed a valuable jewel 
(Jyotirasa) on his head. Instantly his ugliness was changed into the 
most charming beauty, and his wife had no more objection in accepting 
him. 

Beginning. ^§> sn?: 'B^J'^^Tfew^Kr: I 

^i;-s «ffff Tar sir^?i^^«ic^<i« u 

•J 

WMmftlSIT^T ^^TJW gf^W II 

^T 'cft^r ^TfK:?j ^iTm^Mct «rw fl-qr ii 
^g^jfiir^sira J ^W ^ *raT^?:TH ii 

^^^3 si^T t ^:5I^'?^ v^n: II 
KiT^mr^T fl'^TfrrsiT' ^ar H^sjcais^T i 
m «i ^'^ -tk;^ ^m fsfJ^siTsrt stjiistt ii 

la^wrt Jzf W^< ^ ^TfrN^ it 
^TTTH^w: sir? x\^pi g'HiJT^ ii 

f^m^spt ^^^x ^w^^f^^T^f^^ II 



112 

•ff^^n^Y SR'^fn fsT'Cttf^^ HWajr i 

End. ^TrT 11^ Y^fw^%sgrra%^flgrTi[5!j: ^ ■fff ^t^ wq b«^t ^P^fw- 

Colophon. \Tt( ?ftflira^jr^R*^i«rt frs^siTfr^ ^m^ i 



No. B. 14. 
LOKES'YARA S'ATAKA. 

Substance, yellow paper. Folia, 30. Lines on a page, 5. Extent in 
s'lokas, 250. Character, Newari. Appearance, old. Verse. Incorrect. 

A hymn in praise of Lokes'vara in a hundred stanzas. By Vajra- 
datta. 
Beginning. \^ t^v ^i^rai'JT^ i 

^r^ ^TW^ltrT^TWsi •I'iiWiU'S'^r'fi^j: ^ «tT''TO ii 
End. ^f^^ftf sj'Jirir 5}^r*r *f^^<:^s^^T^w^ i 

Colophon. ^ T(%rm^^^'^m^'n^M^'n^ ^ir^^^s^cr^ wifltTf i 



113 

No. 785. 
LALITA VISTAEA. 

Substance, yellow paper. Folia, 246. Lines on a page, 7 to 9. 
Character, Newari. Appearance, old. Prose and verse. Correct. 

The early life of Buddha. See Introduction to my edition of the 
Lalita Vistara, ' Asiatic Researches', XX, and Fouoaux's ' Egya-cher- 
rol-pa.' 



No. B. 12. 
LANKAVATARA. 



Substance, paper, 14^ X 4. Eolia, 198. Lines on a page, 7. Extent in 
slokas, 3,000. Character, Newari. Date, ? Prose and verse. Appear- 

ance old. Very incorrect. 

An account of a visit paid by S'dkya to the king of Lanka 
(Ceylon), and of bis preachings in that island. It is reckoned 
as one of the nine principal texts of Nepalese Buddhism, and held in 
high esteem. In common with the other eight works, it is called a 
"Mahavaipulya Mahaydna Sutra." Three different translations of it 
exist in the Chinese, one under the name of Tarshing-jih-Hng-hia-king, 
another under Lang-kia-o-po- ta-lo-pao-king, and the third under Jih-leng- 
kia-king, the last by Bodhiruchi of the Wei Dynasty (circa 168 — 190.) 

Abstract. Buddha had been on a visit to the capital of the serpents 
(Nagaloka) in the ocean, but returned thence ia a week, and settled on 
the mount Malaya in Lanka. Edvana came to pay his respects to the 
great personage, and prayed him to give the definitions of virtue 
and vice. When Eavana was satisfied, a Bodhisattva, Mahamati by 
name, asked Buddha several questions, and received satisfactory an- 
swers. The questions were 1st, From what principle of human 
nature ratiocination has its origin ? 2ad, How an argument can be 
made pure, i. e., how to detect fallacies ? What is the nature of falla- 
cies ? From what principle in human nature do fallacies proceed ? Where 
do the emancipated go ? How could one in bondage be emancipated P 
5 



114 

What object do holy men meditate upon ? What effect is produced 
by belief ? What is a cause ? What an effect ? What are the hundred 
and eight padas or select sentences ? What are the different ways in 
which Yijndnas or ideas are generated ? In how many ways are they 
retained, and how are they lost ? What are the grounds of a belief in 
the fact of universal causation ? What is ambiguity in speech ? How 
and from what source is it produced ? What is Nirvana ? How do 
Arhats and Tathagatas hold the meditation of Bodhisattvas ? What 
are the different definitions of obtaining attention and of moving 
it ? What are fixed as the five in succession ? What are the defini- 
tions of entity and non-entity ? What are the definitions of teach- 
ing, doctrine, and regulation or rule ? What are the eight different 
sorts of transitoriness ? What are Bodhisattvas, S'r^vakas, Pratyeka 
Buddhas, Nirodbakramas and Amesandhis ? Whether Tatbagata is 
eternal ? When all these questions were answered, the Lord delivered 
a lecture on the Saugata philosophy, and explained the nature of 
a mystic formula which wards Eakshasas off. 

Beginning. -^ srw: ^Tsq^sl'^i?? i ^wht ^^^^m'^ iwr« s-^iC?) viwjk- 

End. sw^TWif%3^ ^^T^ ^il^g^ i 

^^T f% ■??% Jii'-iT ^#r "sifii^TqT «riV II 

"^^^^ ^fl^fir ^ft^ref ^T^r^^ffT I 
Colophon, ^jTJ^^W^fT^frm Tm ?i'?rsriT^ g>ii«i^ ^wiS I 



115 

No A. 11. 
MAHAVASTTJ-AVADA'NA. 

Substance, paper 18f X SJ. Folia, 334. Lines on a page, 11. Extent 
in s'lokas, 18,370. Character, Newari. Date, Newari Samvat 822. Appear- 
ance, old. Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

A cyclopsedia of Buddhist legends and doctrines. It gives an ela- 
borate history of Buddha's life and preachings, explaining every incident 
of his life by references to his past existences. It also gives a simple 
and popular exposition of many abstruse doctrines of the Buddhist 
faith. 

When Lord Buddha was at the Jetavana grove, Maudgalayana visi- 
ted eight principal places of torture in hell. They were — (1) Saujiva, (2) 
Ealasiitra, (3) Saughata, (4) 1st Eaurava, (5) 2nd Eaurava, (6) Maha- 
vichi, (7) Tapana, (8) Pratapana. On his return from the infernal re- 
gions, he delivered four different speeches before four different assemblies, 
painting in glowing colours, the tortures, the convulsions, the insuffer- 
able pain of the nether world. After the conclusion of each lecture, he 
enjoined, in forcible language, the necessity of Brahmacharya and of 
abstinence. 

When the Lord lived at Gridhrakuta in Edjagriha, Maudgala- 
yana chanced to meet a Suddhavdsa Devaputra. From him he 
learned of the great merits of one Uttiya, a banker, the disciple of 
Sarvavibhu. Maudgalayana immediately changed his destination, and 
directed his steps towards Yasumati, where Uttiya lived. On his way 
he happened to meet Abhaya and Nanda, two Bhikshus. He cultivated 
Abhaya's friendship, but tried to annoy Nanda by calling him a Brah- 
mach^ri, but in vain. They all proceeded to Sarvavibhu before whom 
Maudgalayana made a confession of his wicked design of annoying 
Nanda. He feasted the Lord with rich viands obtained from Uttiya 
and some perftxmers. The Lord said to Abhaya^ who had betaken him- 
self to meditation, " Tou are to become a Buddha in future, in the 
hundred thousandth Kalpa — your name will be S'akya Muni, and these 
perfumers with Maudgalayana will be your first S'ravakas." Lord 
Sarvavibhu then taught them the four Oharyas or practices. The first 
refers to the conduct of those who love their parents, live in .their families, 



116 

revere BrShmaiias, beg in their own quarters, never neglect the ten 
duties, instruct others, relieve the poor, perform good works, worship the 
lord, and train the mind for the reception of the highest Samhodhi know- 
ledge : this Chary^ is called Prakriti. 2nd, The conduct of those who 
hope for Buddhahood in one of the innumerable Kalpas to come, who 
want to be perfect in knowledge and in good conduct, to be the lord and 
governor of gods and men : it is called Pranidhana Charya. 3rd, Those 
who hopefor Bodhi knowledge by gradation, are said to be in Anuloma 
Charya. 4th, The endeavours of men to put a period to future trans- 
migration are included in the last or Vivarttana Charyd. 

At the request of Maudgalayana, Kas'yapa gave him a description 
of the ten Bhlimis or stages, they are : (1) Duraroha, (2) Barddhamana, 
(3) Pushpamandita, (4) Ruchira, (5) Ohittavichitra, (6) Eupavati, (7) 
Durjaya, (8) Janmanudes a, (9) Jauvara, (10) Abhisheka. A Bbumi 
means the ground-work of Bodhisattva knowledge. The names, 
however, here given do not correspond with what occur in the Das'a- 
bhiimis'vara, ante, p. 86. The characteristics of the first Bhumi are 
alms-giving, mercy, indefatigableness, want of arrogance, knowledge 
of the S'as'tras, progress, the power of pleasing men, and patience. 

The characteristics of the 2nd stage are twenty Adhyds'ayas or 
intentions. They are, (1) intention for doing good, called Kalyand- 
dhyds'aya ; (2) Snigdhadhyas'aya, or that state of mind in which the man 
is never moved by anger ; (3) Madhuridhyas'aya, or that state of the 
mind in which people are disposed to please women by service ; (4) Tiksh- 
nadhyas'aya, or the knowledge of this world and the world to come ; (5) 
Vipuladhy^s'aya, or the desire resulting in the active exertion for doing 
good to all creatures ; (6) Vichitradhyds'aya, or charity without pride ; 
(7) Aparyydd^nadhyas'aya, open-handedness ; (8) Anupahatadhyas'aya, 
or the power of resisting the temptations of the wicked ; (9) Asadhd- 
ranadhyas'aya, or uncommon diligence for the happiness of the whole 
animal creation ; (10) TJnnatadhyas'aya, or contempt for the doctrines of 
Tirthikas ; (11) Ahripanadhyas'aya, or pursuit of virtue for other than 
enjoyment ; (12) Anivartyadhy^s'aya, or firmness in the belief in Buddha 
in spite of strong temptations; (13) Akritrimadhyas'aya, or aversion to 
the state of merchants, Pratyeka Buddbas,and others; (14) S'uddhas'aya, 
or desire for supreme good and contempt for all gains ; (15) Dridh4dhyd- 
saya, or determination in spite of opposition ; (16) Svabhdvadhyas'ya, or 
contempt for gifts not given with a good will ; (17)- Triptddhyas'aya^ 



117 

contentment or aversion to earthly enjoyment ; (18) PungaMdliySs'aya, 
ambition for omniscience ; (19) Anantadhyas'aya, or charity without the 
expectation of celestial enjoyments in return. The 20th is not given. 

The principal characteristic of the third stage is the passion for 
alms-giving. The following is a list of the duties to be performed in 
gradually passing from the fourth to the eighth stage. Reverence to 
parents ; firm belief in the identity of the Stupa with the Sangha or Bud- 
dhist congregation ; aversion to all hostile criticism against Tathagata's 
character ; aversion to sin ; accumulation of meritorious deeds ; exertion 
for virtue ; aversion to slaughter ; dislike of grievous hurts in a burst of 
passion ; close adherence to the ten ways to virtue ; unwillingness to 
mix in counsels for murder ; performance of good work without vulgar 
curiosity ; cheerfulness in times of danger ; absence of a sense of exalta- 
tion in times of prosperity ; purity of heart; holiness of desires, and pious 
works. In the eighth stage the mind becomes all-mercy. The Bodhi- 
sattvas, who passing the ninth enter the tenth stage, become the means 
of doing an immense amount of good to others. On receiving the full 
development of the tenth stage the Bodhisattva, who pants for human 
abode and longs to receive an earthly form, is a.^ambuddha. He enters 
the womb, remains in the womb, obtains his caste, renounces the 
world : heroism and knowledge become his characteristic virtues. 

The last is explained by references to the history of S'akya 
Muni. He entered Mayd's womb, that is, his Grarbhakranti. His 
son remained for years in Yas'odhara's womb. He renounced the 
world and so forth. The Sannibaddha, who dwells at the root of the 
Bodhi tree and obtains omniscience, gets five eyes, viz., the animal eye, 
the celestial eye, the eye of knowledge, that of religion, and that of Bud- 
dha. The animal eye sees by the help of light. It sees real objects and 
minute objects. The celestial eye is superior to the eyes of Devas and 
"Yakshas — larger, brighter and more powerful. The eye of Dharma pro- 
duces ten different powers ; 1st the power of appreciating ; 2nd, that of 
appreciating the merits of men of different kinds ; 3rd, that of knowing 
the different essences which lead to mukti ; 4th, that of knowing the 
characters of other people ; 5th, that of knowing the consequences of good 
or bad actions ; 6th, that of evading mundane pains ; 7th, the know- 
ledge of the importance of meditation ; 8th, the power of recalling to 
mind the events of former existences ; 9th, the purity of the celestial eye ; 
10th, the destruction of aU mundane paina 



118 

The Buddha's eye sees eighteen things : It gives unrestricted view 
of the present; (2) the remembrance of the past; (3) prescience of 
the future; (4) perfect knowledge following delusions i. e., false know- 
ledge, false work &c. ; (5) of all previous perfect knowledge following the 
delusions of mind, karma &c. ; (6) of all perfect knowledge consequent 
on delusions produced by words ; (7) the belief that ideas or opinions 
cannot be destroyed ; (8) strength ; (9) memory ; (10) deep medita- 
tion ; (11) perfect knowledge ; (12) the knowledge that emancipation 
can be injured; (13) there is no falling off; (14) no creation; (15) 
permanence of devotion to memory ; (16) permanence of the faculties 
of the mind ; (17) fearlessness ; (18) unity of determination. 

Lord Buddha delivered a long discourse on the greatness of the Jinas, 
and on their duties and excellences. They give instruction to the 
congregation ; and, though possessing superhuman powers and abilities, 
still conform to the ways of man. They wash their faces, though these 
smell sweetly. They take baths, though ever so pure. They take meal, 
though they never feel hungry. The voice of a Sugata sounds like 
music, and is as delightful as the distant rolling of clouds. 

Bipafikara. — Kas'yapa gave the following account of Dipankara to 
MaudgaMyana. In one of the innumerable past kalpas there was a king 
named Archchishta in the royal city of Dipavati. Dipavati was a large . 
city, extending over an area of 84 square Yojanas. Bodhisattva Dipan- 
kara, while descending from the Tushita heaven, thought Archchishta to 
be a suitable father for him, and accordingly entered the womb of his 
queen, the virtuous Sus'ila. This was done on the occasion when the full- 
moon was in conjunction with the auspicious asterism Pushya. The 
mother was in a state of sound health, neither affected by bilious nor by 
phlegmatic humour. She saw the Bodhisattva in her womb, and the 
Bodhisattva saw her from it- When in the throes of childbirth, she re- 
quested the king to send her to a tank where lotus grows. When she 
arrived at the side of the tank, lo ! an island sprang up in the midst of 
it. The Bodhisattva was born on that island. At the moment of his 
birth there was a miraculous manifestation of a large number of bright 
lamps, hence his name Dipankara. On the second day of his birth 
Dipankara commenced his philanthropic tour round the earth, equally 
useful to gods and men. For the benefit of his relations he returned to 
Dipavati with eighty thousand Bhikshus in his company. The king, his 



119 

father, accorded him a magnificent reception. He employed five hundred 
Brahmans to recite Vedic hymns. Megha, one of these, offered five 
lotus flowers to Dfpafikara, and asked a boon to the effect that he might 
become in one of his future existences equal to Dipankara in power, 
in knowledge, and in every good quality. His request was granted. 
It was foretold on the occasion that Megha would become Buddha 
S'akya Muni of Kapilavastu. 

Mangala Vasiit. — The Lord said toMaudgaldyana that he obtained a 
similar boon from Mangala the next Buddha after Dipankara. Mangala 
had three several congregations consisting of a hundred thousand, ninety 
thousand and eighty thousand S'ravakas respectively. His two favourite 
disciples were Sudeva and Dharraadeva and two principal Bhikshunis, 
S'iva and Eochana. Sudeva and S'iva were celebrated for their know- 
ledge, and the other two for their power of working miracles (riddhi). 
Mangala's father was Sundara, and his mother S'ri. The future S'akya 
Muni was then an elephant, Atula by name, a resident of the city of 
IJttara. He gave Mangala a hearty welcome and got his bene- 
diction. 

Chhattra Vastu. — In the Sub-Himalayan regions there lived a 
female Taksha, named Kandala, who had one thousand sons, some 
being twins. They proceeded to Vais'ali and stole the vital power of 
the inhabitants. Labouring under various diseases, people forgot to pro- 
pagate their species. The Lichchhavas, the royal Kshatriyas of Vais'ali, 
were then the most influential men. To remedy this evil Tomala, their 
headman, undertook a journey to Eajagriha where Lord Buddha had 
been dwelling for some time. 

On the solicitation of Tomala, Buddha consented to grace the 
city with his presence. YimbisSra the king of Eajagriha begged 
permission to follow him, and it was easily granted. The Lichchhavas 
came a long way to receive the Lord. 

When they reached the banks of the Ganges, a parrot, a messen- 
ger from G-osr'inga came, humbly bowed to the Ijord, invited him in 
human voice to Q-osr'inga, and went away. Every one wondered at 
the human voice of the bird ; but the Lord said, that was nothing new ; 
Brahmadatta king of Benares had three sons, the first an owl, the second 
a starling, the third a parrot. Up to an advanced age he had no sons. 
He went to the Himalayas to receive the blessings of the ^^ishis. They 



120 

advised him to pick up three eggs which he had seen on the way, and to 
nurse the young ones as his sons. He placed those eggs in vessels filled 
with honey and clarified hutter. The eggs produced young ones in due 
time. The young chicks were equally intelligent, each had a strong re- 
tentive memory, and each spoke just as men do. They were all trained 
in state-craft. When asked by the king, they gave very intelligent 
answers with regard to the first principles in politics. The owl 
said, " Strong passions are unworthy of a king, for when he restrains 
his passions, his wealth increases, his virtues and his intelligence have 
free scope for development." The starling (s'alika) said, " There are 
three cardinal points in political economy, acquisition of wealth, accu- 
mulation of wealth, and proper investment of the accumulated hoards." 
The parrot said, "There are five sources of a king's strength, 1st 
prowess, (2) children, (3) relatives, (4) army consisting of elephants, 
horse, foot and chariots, (5) prudence, the most important of all." 

As soon as the Lord touched the boundary of the city all the inha- 
bitants regained their health. Every one was astonished at this mira- 
cle. The Lord said, " Do not wonder, this is not the first time that 
epidemic diseases have been cured by my presence. In one of my former 
existences, I was Rakshita, the son of Brahmadatta's priest ; this Brah- 
madatta was the king of Kampillya in Panohala. Eakshita, deeply 
sensible of the miseries of the worldly life, betook himself to the forest 
at the foot of the Himalayas, and there practised austerities. In a short 
time he acquired considerable power of working miracles. He could 
touch the sun and the moon with his hands. At this time the people 
of Kampillya contracted a contagious disease which defied the skill of 
experienced physicians. But as soon as Rakshita entered the outskirts 
of the city at the request of the king, all the sufferers were reported to 
be convalescent. 

" Similarly, when I had been born as Mahes'a, the renowned 
elephant of the king of Benares, I was invited by the people of Mithila 
to cure them of an epidemic (Am^nusha-vyadhi) : my presence was 
enough for the attainment of their end. 

" In the same manner, I saved the citizens of R^jagriha by my 
presence, when I had been Rishava, a bull, in the kingdom of Anga." 

Thus saying, and taking a meal, the Lord directed his steps towards 
the lake Markata. 



121 

Story of Mdlini. — A Pratyeka Buddha entered the city of V^ranasi 
for alms, but got nothing. A girl, finding his alms-bowl empty, brought 
him home, and gave him a hearty meal. When he died a stupa was erec- 
ted on his remains, and the girl decorated the stupa every day with 
flowers and aromatics. She desired that she may be born with a garland 
of flowers in every one of her future existences ; her desire was fulfilled. 
In her next existence she was born a Devakanya with a garland of flowers 
round her neck. From heaven she descended on earth, and was born in 
the same way as M^lini, the daughter of Kriki, king of Varanasi. Malini 
invited lord Kas'yapa and his retinue, and entertained them with a 
sumptuous meal. The Brahmans, numerous and influential at the court 
of her father, taking umbrage at her conduct, induced the king to order 
her banishment. Malini humbly begged for a week's respite, which was 
granted. During those seven days, five hundred of her brothers, the 
ministers and officers of the Bhatta army, and the citizens were all con- 
verted to the A'rya Dharma, The converts regarded Malini as the saviour 
of their souls. Angry at the wicked machinations of the Brahmans, they 
proceeded in a body to remonstrate with them. The Brd,hmans took 
refuge with the king. They revoked the sentence of Malini's banish- 
ment ; but induced the king to send ten armed men to kill Kas'yapa, 
the root of all their woes. These armed men were easily converted by 
the great Sage. They next deputed a larger number of men, but with 
the same result. They saw that by sending armed men they only added 
to the already overwhelming number of the perverts. They, therefore, 
determined to despatch the business themselves. Armed with clubs, 
maces and other weapons they marched in martial array to the hermitage 
of Kas'yapa. Kas'yapa invoked the goddess Prithvi, and desired her 
to show her powers against these Brahmans. She rooted up a stout 
palm tree, hurled it at the Brahmans, and crushed them to death. 

Story of Jyotipdla. — Marakaranda was a place in the kingdom of 
Kos'ala. Buddha dwelt there for some time with all his congregation. 
One day, just on the breaking up of his meditation, his eyes fell on a 
piece of grassy plain of wide extent. He smiled. A'nanda, who stood 
near, asked " Lord, why do you smile ?" The Lord said, " This plain 
bad been the dwelling place of Kas'yapa. He had his hut here. Kra- 
kaohchhanda. Kanaka and Kas'yapa all sat at this spot." He added, 
" This Marakaranda had been at one time Verudinga, a village prinoi- 
16 



122 

pally inhabited by Brdhmans. Kas'yapa had here only one disciple, 
named Ghatikara, a maker of earthenwares. JyotipS,la was one of the 
young sons of Ghatikara. The disciple heard one day that his Lord was 
dwelling in a forest close to Verudiiiga. With great difficulty he 
dragged his unwilling son, fond of idle play, to the presence of 
the sage, who gave the youth " the five lessons." In a short time 
Jyotipala entered a hermitage. When Kas'yapa, in the course of 
his perambulations, returned to Ghatikara from Varanasi, for to him 
Ghatikara was dearer than the king of that place, Jyotipala asked 
him for a boon, praying to be raised to the list of Buddhas in a future 
existence. This boon was granted, and it was also foretold that Jyotipala 
would practise Brahmacharya in the Bhadrakalpa at Kapilavastu, 
and, then rising to the Tushita heaven, should become a Devaputra 
named Svetaketu, and afterwards S'akya Sinha. 

Origin of the Kaidiya tribe. — Kalydna was the son of the king Maha- 
sammata, KalySna begat Eava. Eava begat TJposhadha. Uposhadha 
begat Mandhata. The descendants of Mdndhata were all kings for se- 
veral generations. One of them, Sujata, became king of the IkshSku in 
the great city of Saketa. He had six children. The five legitimate 
children were, Upura, Nipura, Kalakandaka, TJlkamukha, and Hasti- 
kas'irsha. The illegitimate son was Jeta, the son of a concubine named 
Jeti. The king was so very fond of her that, in compliance with her 
wishes, he disinherited his legitimate sons, and nominated Jeta to the 
throne. The disinherited sons proceeded towards the north, followed by 
a large retinue of loyal citizens and soldiers. They were at first hos- 
pitably entertained by the king of Kos'ala. But their popularity with 
his own subjects displeased the king. He dismissed them from his pre- 
sence, and ordered them to quit his city. They entered a forest at 
the foot of the Him^aya, where Rishi Kapila had his dwelling- 
place. They built a city there, the city was named Kapilavastu from 
the vicinity of the Rishi. TJpura, the eldest of the brothers, was 
elected king. He was succeeded by Nipura. Karakanda succeeded 
Nipura, and was himself succeeded by TJlkamukha. Ulkimukha had 
Hastinikas'irsha for his son, and Sinhatanu for his grandson. Sinha- 
tanu had four 'Sons and one daughter; The sons were S'uddhodana, 
Dhautodana, S'uklodana, Amritodana, and the daughter was AmitS, 
Amitd was a leper. All the skill of the royal physicians was 



123 

employed in vain to cure her. The loathsome disease made her 
an object of general hatred. Her brothers carried her to a hill 
named TJtsaiiga-parvata, where they placed her in a subterranean 
room stored with provisions which would last for years. The entrance 
to the room was closed for ever. The only door by which the interior 
could be approached was covered with planks ; and a heap of earth, 
placed on those planks, concealed everything. The new mode of living 
had its effects on Amita's constitution. She, in a short time, recovered 
from the dreadful disease. A tiger caught the scent of a human being, 
and scratching the earth away laid the planks bare. Kola, a Rishi, who 
lived close by, happened to come near the planks. He removed them, 
and discovered Amit^ blooming with all the freshness of youth. 
The charming maid made an impression on his mind. He married her. 
The marriage was blessed with an issue of 32 children. These were sent 
to Kapilavastu, where they were received with open arms, because Kola 
was no unworthy relation to the S'dkyas, having himself reigned for a 
long time as the king of Varanasi. Amitd,'s sons were known either by 
their patronymic Kauliya, or .by the name of Vyaghrapady^, from the 
circumstance of their mother having been discovered by a tiger. The 
S'akyas and Kauliyas were afterwards connected by innumerable matri- 
monial ties. 

Birth and Marriage of Maya Devi. — There was in the country of 
Devaiiha a great S'akya named Subhuti. He married in the family 
of the Kauliyas, and had seven daughters, via., (1) Maya ; (2) Maha- 
mija. ; (3) Atimayd ; (4) Anantamaya ; (5) Chiilimaya, (6) Koh'sabd 
and (7) Mahaprajavati. Maya was the most lovely, the most beautiful 
and the most accomplished of them all. When Sinhahanu died, and 
was succeeded by his son S'uddhodana, the first measure of the new king 
was the celebration of his own marriage with Maya and Mahaprajavati, 
and that of his brothers with the other daughters of Subhuti. All 
the Pratyeka Buddhas were delighted in giving their respective fore- 
casts (Vyakaran^ni) to the effect that the Bodhisattva would descend 
from the Tushita heaven in the twelfth year after this marriage. 

Siorp of the Deer Kings. — There were five hundred Pratyeka Bud- 
dhas at Eishipattana in Vardnasi. They too gave their own Vy^karan- 
anis. At that time there were two lords of the deer at Varanasi ; they 
were named Nyagrodha and Vis'akha, sons of Rahaka. Each of them 



124 

had a flock of 500 deer under him. Brahmadatta, king of Vardnaei, was 
in the habit of hunting and killing the deer. The deer kings, unable 
to stop this slaughter of their subjects, made a treaty with the king 
on the condition of sending one deer every day to the royal kitchen. 
Tears rolled on. No party had any reason for complaint. The 
king, secure in the enjoyment of the tribute of venison, discontinued 
his hunting excursions. The deer, too, after having spared one of 
themselves for the king every day, jumped, frisked and ran about just 
as they liked. At last an event occurred which put a stop to the tribute 
altogether. It was on the occasion when a doe was in her turn 
to be sent to the king. She was enceinte. She applied to the deer- 
king Yis'akha under whom she lived, for a change of her turn on the 
score of her being big with two fawns. Her death, so pleaded she, 
would cause the death of three animals. But none of the flock volun- 
teered to go in her stead, ^'hen the deer kings found their efforts to 
be of no avail, Nyagrodha, one of them, nobly resolved to sacrifice 
himself at the altar of charity. He proceeded forthwith to the royal 
presence, and explained to him the circumstances under which he had 
taken the resolution. The king was struck with wonder at the genero- 
sity of the poor animal, and immediately issued a proclamation freeing 
the deer-kings from their contract. 

Exactly at the time of this proclamation Bodhisattva was de- 
scending from the Tushita heaven. He was thinking of a family which 
he could grace with his birth. Vimbisara and Udayana requested the 
Lord to honor Eajagriha or Kaus'dmbi by making it his birth-place. 
But he preferred S'uddhodana, because Maya, his would-be mother, was 
virtuous, kind-hearted, and honorable, and she had only seven days to 
live after the birth of her son. 

Sirth of Buddha. — Actuated by a divine impulse Maya requested 
her husband to send her alone to the Dhritarashtra palace. There she 
intended to practise the eleven virtues of Ahins'a, Brahmacharyya &c. 
S'uddhodana complied with her request. On the night of the full 
moon, when the moon was in the Pushya constellation, the Bodhisattva 
entered the left side of his mother while she was reclining after 
sunset on a milk-white sofa. When in labours Maya remained leaning 
on the branch of a tree in the Lumbim garden. In that posture 
she gave birth to Sarvarthas'iddha. On that day the S'akyas had 



125 

born unto them five hundred sons, including Sundarananda and others, 
five hundred daughters including Tas'odhari &o., five hundred horses, the 
same number of slaves and elephants ; they also obtained the same num- 
ber of diamonds and hoards. S'uddhodana sent a palankin made by the 
hands of Yis'vakarma to bring the mother and the son to the 
palace. 

When Buddha was born, all creatures obtained what they wanted, 
from which circumstance he was called Sarvarthas'iddha " the gratifier 
of every wish." No sooner was the prince brought to the palace, than 
the king sent for learned astrologers to cast his nativity. They 
unanimously declared the child would be a ' great man,' a Mahapurusha, 
He, they declared, had all the thirty-two signs of greatness, such as 
Sama or symmetry, Hrishta or stoutness, Dirgha, tallness, A'yata or 
broad-chestedness, Upasakha &c. The astrologers assured the king 
that at the time of the prince's birth the diadems of the gods had 
fallen from their heads. 

Asita, a Brahman of Ujjayini in Dakshinapatha, who was well 
versed in the mysteries of the Vedas, who had renounced the world, 
who had lived long on the Vindhya mountain, practising austerities as a 
hermit, came from the Himalaya, his recent lodge, to see the Bodhi- 
sattva. He descended before the boy from the aerial regions, and began 
to weep, " 0, what a wretch am I," cried the old man, " I shall not 
be able to avail myself of the sublime teaching of this boy ! So old am 
I, that I am sure to perish before he commences preaching the doctrine 
of Nirvana. I am sure he will become a great Buddha. The signs 
are clear and distinct; the marks deep and indubitable. There are 
eighty characteristics which indicate a future Buddha, and I discern 
them all on this little boy. Unfortunate that I am, I shall not see 
the miracles wrought, the austerities practised, and the difficulties 
surmounted by him on his way to Nirvana !" 

First Meditation of Sarvdrthas'tddha. — Once on a time king S'uddho- 
dana went to one of his parka with his family. The prince took a walk 
beyond the park, and entered a village inhabited by husbandmen. He 
saw a serpent and a frog. He startled the serpent, and it devoured the 
frog. This convinced the prince of the evanescent character of every- 
thing mundane. Under the shadow of a rose-apple tree he fell into a 
deep meditation. Five ?.ishis, who were passing through the air, were 



126 

suddenly stopped in their course as soon as they came over his head. 
They could not proceed further in spite of all their endeavours. 
They were quite at a loss as to the reason of this strange phenomenon. 
But they soon came to learn that a Bodhisattva was in meditation 
below. They chanted a gatha, turned round, and went another way. 

The king at his meal enquired after Sarvarthas'iddha. He was no 
where to be found. The chamberlain searched after him from grove to 
grove, but to no purpose. At last he was discovered holding a meditation 
uuder the rose-apple tree, and the most strange sight was, that the sha- 
dow of the tree had not forsaken him though the sun had gone from the 
east to the west. The king, when this was reported to him, ran to the 
spot, fell on his knees, and praised his son in hymns. 

Yas'odhard's Blushing. — But he entertained an apprehension that 
his son would take thq first opportunity to renounce the world. The 
best means to provide against that contingency would be, he thought, 
to marry him as soon as possible. From this motive, he invited all 
the S'akya girls to his park. Among the rest came Yas'odhara, the 
accomplished daughter of Mahanama alias Subhiiti. The king ap- 
pointed his son to receive these girls, and to offer them presents of 
rich dresses. Yas'odhara, when the prince came to him, blushed. 
Her blushing was explained in the following way : 

There lived in former times Narada, a Br^hmana of the family of 
Kaus'ika, at V^ranasi. Having found by bitter experience that the thirst 
for temporal enjoyment would never come to an end, he entered the 
monastic life, and practised Yogas at the foot of the Himalaya. He 
succeeded so far as to work miracles, and to learn the " five experiences." 
But he was still found deficient in " the art of apportioning" (Sanvi- 
bhaja). To teach him this, Indra came from heaven, with the sun, the 
moon and Matuli in his company. They demanded victuals from Kau- 
s'ika Narada, telling at the same time that heaven is gained by 
alms, and hell by withholding the same. Kaus'ika promised to set 
every day, without fail, a portion of his food for the needy. Hiri, the 
daughter of Indra, fell in love with Narada, and her cheeks reddened 
at the sight of the Rishi. Hiri was Yas'odhara and Ndrada, Buddha. 

Yas'odhard's Revenge. — At the grand party aforesaid, prince 
Sarvarthas'iddha presented rich clothes to all the assembled girls. He 
gave a ring and many valuables to Yas'odharS, but still she was not 



127 

satisfied. Why ? Because ia one of their former existences, he and 
she were the banished prince and princess of Kas'i. The prince caught 
a guana, and asked his wife to cook it. She declined. The prince was 
obliged to dress it for himself. But when it was ready, the princess 
expressed her desire to partake of the dish, and her husband managed 
to deprive her of her share by swallowing it while she had been away 
to fetch some water. The princess, in her subsequent existence, as 
Tas'odhara, avenged her wrong. 

Yas'odhara's Choice. — Though she was certain that the prince would 
renounce the world, yet Tas'odhara rejected the hands of Sundara- 
nanda and Devadatta. The reason is, that once on a time the beasts, 
in a large assembly at the foot of the snowy range, wanted to elect 
a king to govern them. It was settled that, whoever should reach 
the mountain in seven days should be their king. All ran towards 
the mountain. But a tigress won the prize. A female on the 
throne was an idea repugnant to the beasts, and so they requested 
her to choose a husband who should rule them. A bull wooed her in 
vain ; an elephant courted her with no better success ; but a lion 
married her. The tigress was Tas'odhara, the bull Sundarananda, 
the elephant Devadatta, and the lion Buddha. 

Trial of Strength. — When the girls had been dismissed, S'ud- 
dhodana learned from his ministers that Tas'odhara had made a deep 
impression on the prince's mind. A negotiation for marriage was 
immediately set on foot with Tas'odhara's father. But Mahanama 
declined their offer on the score of Sarvarthas'iddha's ignorance of the 
science of war, and also on the score of his want of artistic skill. S'uddho- 
dana was greatly mortified at this repulse. The prince, being apprised 
of the reason of the king's distress, caused a proclamation to be made 
throughout the city inviting youths to show their excellence in feats of 
strength. There was a large gathering on the day appointed. A furious 
elephant entered that day one of the gates of Kapilavastu. Devadatta 
killed it by a slap with his open hand ; but, unable to remove the 
carcass, he had to double it. Sundarananda could only drag it a few 
paces to clear the way. But Sarvarthas'iddha threw it beyond the seven 
walls of Kapilavastu. In another trial Devadatta's arrow pierced two 
palm trees, and reached the third. Sundarananda 's arrow pierced three 
trees and reached the fourth, while the prince's arrow not only pierced 



128 

through seven trunks, but passed on to the nether world. Moreover he 
made use of a certain Sinhadhanu's bow, which none of his contem- 
poraries could string. 

Story of Dharmapala. — Certain Bhikshus requested the Lord to 
kindly explain to them how he came to recognize the long lost 
descendants of the Sakyas, or S'akiyamushtis. The Lord said there 
was nothing new in it to wonder at. Brahmayuh was a priest to the 
king of Varanasi, and Dharmapala was his son. He placed his son 
under the tuition of an AchSrya on the Himalaya. At a short distance 
from the school there was a large tank inhabited by a dragon. 
When Dharmapala plunged into the tank for bathing, the monster 
dragged him in. Dharmapala cultivated the friendship of a serpent 
prince who dwelt at the bottom of the tank, and instructed his subjects 
in the ten Karmapathas. The monster, when dragging in Dhar- 
mapala, had killed another boy whose remains lay floating upon the 
water. The tutor, supposing the remains to be those of Dharmapala, 
carefully collected them, and forthwith proceeded to Varanasi to inform 
Dharmapdla's father of the sad accident. Brahmayuh assured the 
tutor that Dharmapala was alive, and that the remains were those of 
another. He feasted the tutor with every care, and sent him back to 
the Himalaya, where, to his great surprise, the tutor saw Dharmapala 
sitting in his hermitage. " I am that priest, and Rahula was Dharma- 
pala," said the Lord. 

Proficiency in Archery. — The Bhikshus enquired how the lord could 
shoot his arrow to so great distance, as adverted to above. The 
Lord said ' This is not the first time I have done so. I had been, in one 
of my previous existences, a king of Varanasi. My empire extended 
to Takshas'ila. Once on a time I appointed my brother as my lieute- 
nant at Varanasi, and marched to Takshas'ila to suppress a revolt there. 
While absent from my capital it was besieged by a neighbouring 
prince. Instead of hastening to the relief of the capital, I aimed an 
arrow at my enemy who had his left foot pierced by it. I also con- 
trived to attach a letter to the arrow threatening his life unless he in- 
stantly quitted my territories. He did not stop a moment after the 
perusal of my letter, but immediately broke up his encampment. It 
is not, therefore, at all extraordinary that I should be able to send an 
arrow to the nether region in my present existence." 



129 

Proficiency in Art. Story of Mahaushadha and Amard. — In 
reply to the query why Tas'odhara was gained by a display of 
skill in manual arts, the Lord remarked that he had done so be- 
fore, and illustrated the fact by the following story. Two miles 
from Mithila, there was a village named Javakachchha, where 
Mahaushadha, a Brihman, had his residence. He wanted to 
obtain the hand of a blacksmith's daughter, named Amard. But 
the blacksmith would not consent to marry his daughter to one 
not acquainted with any manual art. The Brahman, thereupon, tried 
hard to acquire an art, and subsequently exhibited so much dexterity in 
needle-work that the blacksmith was glad to give his daughter in 
marriage to him. That Brahman was Sarvarthas'iddha, and Amard, 
his wife Tas'odhara in a former life. 

Proficiency in Prowess. Story of a Vedic Student andS'iri. — To the 
question why Tas'odhara had to be gained by prowess, the following 
stpry was related to furnish a reply. A learned Brdhman of Varavari 
got an invitation from Samudrapattana. After the perusal of the letter he 
toM his five hundred disciples that any one of them who oould go to 
Samadrapattana would be rewarded with the hand of S'iri, his daughter. 
One of the students, who was in love with S'iri, determined not to lose this 
golden opportunity. He volunteered to go, reached Samudrapattana, 
obtained valuable presents ; but on his voyage back to Varavari, his 
travelling bag, containing the presents, fell into the ocean. Unable to 
bear the idea of losing such a magnificent prize as S'iri, he determined 
to recover his bag by draining the sea, and set with all his might and 
main to the work. This induced the Devas, the Nagas, the Yakshas 
and the Eakshasas of the ocean to restore him his bag. Buddha was 
that bold and persevering student, and S'iri Tas'odhara. 

Story of Siichandrima and a Kinnari. — In illustration of the fact that 
Sarvarthas'iddha had always to submit to great difficulty in obtaining the 
hands of Tas'odhara, he related the following story. Once on a time, Su- 
chandrima, a king of Sinhapura, undertook, by the advice of a Brahman, 
the celebration of a grand sacrifice, in which he intended to immolate one 
of every species of animal. Several hundreds of huntsmen were employed 
to catch wild beasts. When everything was ready, he invited learned 
Rishis, who travelled by the aerial way, to superintend the arrangement 
of the materials. They unanimously declared that a Kinnari was 
17 



130 

wanting. The hunters were ordered to fetch a Kinnari. One of them 
went to the Himalaya in search, and lodged in the hermitage of the 
Rishi Kas'yapa. 

All of a sudden he heard a tiny note of celestial music. He 
enquired of the Rishi whence it came. Being told that a Kinnara 
Princess, named Manohara, came every day to a lotus tank close 
by, and being advised that she could be caught only by means of 
truth, the wily hunter proceeded to the tank, and, by telling a truth, man- 
aged to capture the maiden. Raja Suchandrima, now furnished with 
the full complement of animals, invited his friend Subdhu, the Lord of 
Hastina, to the sacrifice. Subdhu deputed his youthful son Sudhanusha 
to the sacrifice. The young prince, at the very first sight, fell in love 
with the Kinnari, and found to his great satisfaction that his feelings 
were reciprocated. He repaired to the king Suchandrima, and represen- 
ted to him the sin and impiety of slaughtering so many thousands of 
innocent animals. He discoursed long on the merits of Ahins'4, and, at 
last, succeeded in inducing the king to set the animals at liberty, and to 
put an end to the sacrifice. The king dismissed the assembled Brah- 
mans with valuable presents. The prince returned in company of 
Manohara, the Kinnari, to Hastin^pura, where he had long been associated 
by his father in the government of the kingdom. But the prince, in the 
company of the beautiful lady, neglected his official duties. This being 
reported to the aged king, he quietly dismissed the Kinnari from the pa- 
lace. She directed her steps towards the Himalaya. On the banks of the 
S'atadrti she cultivated the friendship of Utpalaka and Manavaka, two 
hunter boys, put in their hands a precious ring and a garland with 
fragrant earth as tokens, and requested them, if the prince ever came 
after her, to tell him the way she had taken. 

In the absence of his beloved one, the prince languished, and pined 
away. The palace, the city, the harem, pleased him not. The king tried 
to aS'ord consolation, but failed. One night the prince stole away from 
the royal residence, and, attended only by one servant, directed his course 
to Kinnarapura. He met the hunter boys on the S'atadrd ; and they 
handed over to him the Kinnari's mementos. Unmindful of their 
remonstrance he proceeded through the hills and forests, his guide on 
the way being the tokens which had been left here and thereby 
Manohara for the purpose. After much difficulty he safely reached 



131 

Kas'yapa's As'rama. Kas'yapa ordered a huge monkey to convey 
liina to Nirati, the capital of Manohara's father. The monkey placed 
him on its shoulders, and, jumping from peak to peak, from mountain 
to mountain, carried him safe to the capital. There the prince contrived 
to put his ring into the water-pot of one of Manohara's handmaids. 
The ring happened to fall before Monohara's eyes. She instantly con- 
cluded the prince's appearance in the city, and apprised her father of it. 
The king gave a hearty welcome to the prince, his son-in-law. After 
some time, the prince expressed his desire of returning to his own coun- 
try. On awaking one morning he found himself in Hastinapura with 
his wife. Yambhaka, one of his father-in-law's messengers, had con- 
veyed them while asleep through the region of air. There were no 
bounds to the joys of the people of Hastina at the reappearance of their 
lost prince. Subahu was Suddhodana, ; his wife, Maya ; Utpala, the 
hunter boy ; Eahula, Manavaka the other hunter ; Ananda, the mon- 
key As'varaja ; Druma, Manohara's father Mahanam^ ; Manohar£, 
TSsodhar^ ; and Sudhanusha, Sarvarthasiddha himself.* 

S'd^ya's Early Life — During his residence in S'rdvasti the Lord, one 
day, recalled to his mind what his mission on earth was, and addressed 
his Bhikshus on the subject of his early life. 

When he was young his father erected for him three buildings, and 
supplied them with the richest furniture. They were suited to the 
three seasons of the year — places for wantonness, pastime and pleasure. 
But Sarvdrthasiddha's firm conviction was that the householder's state 
was a state of sinfulness, without a break. He who would prepare himself 
for hermitage or pravrajya should not stay in his family ; knowing this he 
renounced the world, severing all ties of relationship, and leaving be- 
hind him the inheritance of a mighty empire. His parents wept, but 
could not make any impression on a mind bent on religious excellence, 
or the attainment of Bodhi knowledge. From Kapilavastu he proceeded 
to Vais'ali. There lived a Jina, named Aradhakalama, who had three 
hundred S'r^vakas. His doctrine was " abandon whatever you see" [lit. 
" see, see, and abandon, abandon"] . Sarvarthasiddha conceived a high 
opinion of the doctrine, and applied to the teacher for admission as a 
pupil. But his pupilage was short. The Jina said " my religion is such 

* This version of the story differs in many material points from the one given 
ou p, 62. 



132 

that a faithful, noble-hearted man might practice Brahmacharya, and at 
the same time learn to honor the holy ways to bliss." This did not satisfy 
the inward cravings of the prince for a complete and absolute destruction 
of all mundane pains. He left Vais'ali for Eajagriha, where Eudraka, 
son of Eama, dwelt. He had seven hundred S'ravakas under him. His 
doctrines too did not please the prince, who next went to the mount 
Gayas'irsha. There three ideas struck him, ©is., 1st, that a Brahman, or 
a S'ramana, who wants to attain the Bodhi knowledge by the exertion of 
his body and mind, both impure, is like one who wants to produce fire 
by the rubbing of two bits of wood immersed in water : both are equally 
doomed to experience the acute pangs of disappointment. 2nd, As a 
man cannot produce fire by rubbing a dry piece of wood against a wet 
piece, so a Brahman cannot attain the highest knowledge by purifying 
his body, when his heart remains impure. 3rd, Even as fire can be pro- 
duced by rubbing two dry pieces of wood, so is the Bodhi knowledge 
attainable by the union of the body and the mind, both equally stainless. 
Contemplating over these analogies he reached the village of TJruvilva. 
There in solitude flowed the pure and limpid stream of Nairanjand. 
The scenery delighted the hermit greatly. He determined to make 
that place his abode, and the scene of his salvation. 

Having taken this resolution he attempted to restrain his k&ya^ 
or sensations, and also his chitta or mind, by means of meditation. Then 
he commenced the most difficult meditation called Asphanaka-dhy ana, 2. «., 
meditation by restraining his breath from escaping through the nostrils 
and the mouth. Having no other outlet his breath passed through the 
ears, making a sound like that of bellows. When he restrained his breath 
through those passages also, it rushed upwards, and, breaking open his 
scalp, escaped. Some advised him to live on one plum a day. It weak- 
ened him greatly. Some advised him to live on a single grain of rice a day, 
some on a grain of sesamum, some advised him absolute fast, and so on. 
He found that by these austerities he was getting emaciated ; that his 
strength was departing ; his beauty fading ; his complexion growing pale 
and haggard. He concluded, that was not the right way to gain the 
Bodhi knowledge. He had felt, he thought, far greater delight at home 
when he fell into a deep meditation under the rose-apple tree. That, he 
believed, was the right method of obtaining the highest bliss. So he took 
a bath in the pure and cooling stream of the Nairanjand ; regained hia 



133 

health by wholesome diet ; obtained, by begging, a handful of hay from a 
dealer in corn ; scattered it round the Bodhi Tree ; turned thrice round 
the Tree from the right ; and sat below it, recalling to mind every thing 
in the world. 

On that very day, in the still awful moments of midnight, S'ud- 
dhodana saw, in a dream, his darling son in the form of an elephant, 
riding on a brilliant fig tree resplendent with jewels. Pearls, 
rubies and precious stones covered him from head to foot. He 
stood in the middle of a broad street of the city, where people flocked 
from all quarters, even at that dead of night, to anoint him. 

Yas'odharS dreamt of a bright piece of cloud, glowing like lightning 
with tremulous light, pouring a refreshing shower over the three 
regions, and delighting the whole animal creation with the music of itis 
roar. She dreamt also that Brahma was explaining the dream to her. 

Bodhisattva himself saw five vision3 : in one of them he saw that the 
whole earth was his couch'; Sumeru, red like the Yimba fruit, his pillow; 
his right hand resting on the eastern, his left on the western, and his 
legs on the southern, ocean. In a second he saw S'thirikas, a kind of 
grass, shooting from his navel, covered the whole face of the heavens. 

Suddenly the events of his hSuseholder life recurred to his 
memory. He remembered his asking the permission of his father 
to enter the hermitage, and the affectionate tears of that aged 
father, imploring him to stay at home, at least, to the end of hia 
own life. He remembered, also, that at the time of this conver- 
sation S'uddhodana thought of placing him in a magnificent palace 
in the midst of bewitching beauties, fascinating girls, charming celes- 
tial damsels. S'uddhodhana actually performed what he thought. But 
nothing could tempt the virtuous soul, bent only upon the final and com- 
plete deliverenceof himself. The prince only longed for that sort of delight 
which he had experienced under the rose-apple tree. Neither music, nor 
dance, nor the beauty of youth could, in his estimation, produce such 
a thrilling delight as that deep meditation afforded. The deity presiding 
over the Lumbini forest, in an invisible shape, gave the first intima- 
tion to the king of the mental distress of his beloved son. The heart 
of the aged monarch melted away at the sight of the lifeless emaciated 
complexion of Sarvarthasiddha. With tears at the sight of the lack- 
lustre countenance, the aged man asked him, if there was anything wrong 



134 

with him, if he entertained any fear of the loss of his wealth, or of an 
invasion from an enemy. The prince replied, he saw everything w;rong 
with him ; " because", said he, " I constantly find that disease creeps 
upon health, and death steals away life. Life passes away, and death 
comes nearer every year. There is loss of wealth, because all the 
religions of the world are false, foolish, contradictory. They are a, 
stumbling-block to the accumulation of our wealth, viz., spiritual wealth. 
There is fear of the enemy, for false reformation in religion produces 
misery, and that reformation is our enemy. I can stay at home if you can 
guarantee that youth should not be followed by imbecility, health ruined 
by disease, life destroyed by death." 

S'uddhodana again thought of quieting his son's mind by agreeable 
female company. But the prince expressed his desire to proceed to a park. 
Immediately the streets wejre strewn with flowers, and the prince, in a 
gorgeous procession, proceeded to the park. Every care was taken to 
keep away the blind, the maimed, the lame, the old, and the dead, from 
his sight ; but a potter, the son of Ghatikara, a Suddhabdsa Devaputtra, 
placed in the way an extremely old man, weak, pale, and tottering 
leaning for support upon a crutch. 

At the sight of this miserable* creature, Sarvarthasiddha fell into a 
melancholy vein of thought. Old age and misery, thought he, are in- 
separable from the state of man. The sufferings of the old man made 
so deep an impression on his mind that he could not proceed on his 
journey; he ordered his charioteer to drive homewards. On ano- 
ther occasion, the sight of a man labouring under various diseases made 
him stop his journey to another park, and return home. The sight of 
a dead body was enough, on another day, to send him back from his 
way to a third park. On the fourth time, when he attempted to go to a 
fourth park, he fell in with a Bhikshu. The prince asked him the reason 
of his renouncing the world. The reply was " for the restraint, quietude, 
and annihilation of the soul." The prince was greatly delighted at the 
answer. Just at this moment a Chakravaka cried aloud — " blessed is your 
father, blessed your mother, and blessed the girl whom you have mar- 
ried." This Chakravaka afterwards became Mrigi, the mother of Ananda. 

The king prepared for anointing his son as second king, under the 
auspicious star Pushya; but the prince thought that was the most auspicious 
moment for entering the hermitage. The gods and the Devaputras en- 



135 

oouraged him in his purpose. At the moment of midnight, when Edhula 
descended from his mother's womb, the prince surveyed his seraglio, got 
disgusted at the indecent picture it presented, and finally took leave of 
the world. At a retired place (Andseyasthana) , 96 miles from Kapila- 
vastu, in the kingdom of the Mallas, in the vicinity of the As'rama of 
Yas'ishtha, the prince dismissed his servant Chandaka with Kantaka, 
hifi horse. He exchanged his silken robe for an ochre-colored vest- 
ment, and cut off his crown-lock (ehuda) , 

Story of Sydmd and Vajrasena. — The reason why Buddha abandoned 
his faithful wife Tas'odhara is given in the following story. 

There was in times of yore a horse-dealer at Taks'hasiM, named 
Vajrasena ; on his way to the fair at Varanasi, his horses were stolen, 
and he was severely wounded. As he slept in a deserted house in the 
suburbs of Varanasi, he was caught by policemen as a thief. He was 
ordered to the place of execution. But his manly beauty attracted the 
attention of Syamcl, the first public woman in Yardnasi. She grew 
enamoured of the man, and requested one of her handmaids to rescue 
the criminal at any hazard. By offering large sums of money, she 
succeeded in inducing the executioners to set Vajrasena free, and execute 
the orders of the king on another, a banker's son, who was an admirer 
of Syama. The latter, not knowing his fate, approached the place of 
execution with victuals for the criminal, and was severed in two by the 
executioners. 

The woman was devotedly .attached to Vajrasena. But her in- 
human conduct to the banker's son made a deep impression on his mind. 
He could not reconcile himself to the idea of being in love with the perpe- 
trator of such a crime. On an occasion when they both set on a pluvial 
excursion, Vajrasena plied her with wine, and, when she was almost 
senseless, smothered and drowned her. When he thought she was quite 
dead, he dragged her to the steps of the ghat and fled, leaving her in 
that helpless condition. Her mother, who was at hand, came to her 
rescue and by great assiduity resuscitated her. Syama's first measure, 
after recovery, was to find out a Bhikshuni of Takshas'ila, and to send 
through her a message to Vajrasena, inviting him to her loving 
embrace. Buddha was that Vajrasena, and Syam^, Tas'odhara. 

Story of a Serpent-catcher. — The Lord said he was at another time 
saved by Yas'odhara. He was then a king of the serpents, living at 



136 

Varanasi. On the eighth, the fourteenth and the fifteenth day of the 
moon, he used to fast and remain motionless at a place where four roads 
met. On one of these occasions he was caught by a serpent-catcher. 
He had many wives, but none succeeded in rescuing him. The chief of 
them proceeded boldly to the king of Vardnasi. Her pathetic appeals 
and eloquent description of her husband's virtues moved the king, who 
immediately ordered the serpent-catcher, on pain of death, to set 
the serpent-king free ; that chief queen was Tas'odhara. 

Sequel to the visions.— After the vision Buddha went to beg his 
food in Uruvilvcl, where Sujata, who was his mother in five hundred 
previous existences, feasted him with milk and honey. Eaja S'uddho- 
dana, after the vision of the elephant, sent a man to the TJruvilv^ 
grove to enquire after his son's health. The man saw him motionless in 
a trance, with his breath stopped, and concluded that he was dead. 
But the Eaja did not believe his report. The messenger, being sent 
again to the grove, found Buddha in perfect repose. 

Story of Sydmaka. — It struck some of the audience as strange 
that the king should, from so great a distance, know better about 
his son's health than those who were around him. But this was 
explained by a reference to his previous history. He was, once 
on a time, a Brahman who entered the third stage with his wife in 
company. At his hermitage on the banks of the Subhanjani, in the neigh- 
bourhood of Gotama's hermitage, he had a child born unto him. The 
boy, named SySmaka, was always dutiful to his parents. In fact he was 
the principal support in their old age. His filial love was so great that 
he could never take rest until after his parents had been properly served. 
The king of Varanasi was very fond of hunting in Gotama's forest. In 
one of his hunting excursions he aimed an arrow at what appeared to 
him to be a stag, drinking in a river, but when it was too late he found 
out his error. It was the Brahman's son, who had come to fetch water for 
his blind parents, that fell pierced by his weapon. The king hastened to 
his rescue. But the young man was on the point of death. He had time 
only to acquaint the king with the precarious position in which this 
unforeseen circumstance would reduce his beloved parents. In com- 
pliance with his dying request, the king carried his parents to his 
corpse, laid it before them, confessed his crime, and tried in various ways 



137 

to afford them consolation. They wept bitterly for their affectionate 
child. At last the old Brdhman said he would revivify his son by 
telling the truth. His action was as good as his word. In a short time 
S'yamaka revived. S'uddhodana was formerly the father of Syamaka.* 

Story of 8'iriprahJM. — Buddha practised austerities at Uruvilva ; 
his ardour was so great that he lived eighteen months on one plum a 
day, eighteen on one sessamum seed a day, eighteen on one grain of rice 
a day, and for eighteen months he took no food at all. His eyes sunk in 
their sockets, the sound of his breath was like that of bellows, his head 
became bare and white like an autumnal bottlegourd. Every member of 
his family, grew anxious for his life. Tas'odhara, though at home, 
made it a point to lead an ascetic life. Henceforth she lived on 
simple food, and slept on the bare ground. Nor did she do this, said the 
Lord, in this life alone, but also in a previous existence. Tas'odhara 
always followed in the wake of her husband. She was then the fond 
hind to a loving stag who was named S'iriprabha. Her husband fell into 
the snare of one Lubdhaka, a hunter. The hind placed herself before the 
hunter, and requested him to kill her before killing her husband. Her 
fidelity saved her husband, for the hunter was too chivalrous to turn a 
deaf ear to the request of a chaste wife. 

Story of 8'akuntika, the fowler. — When holding deep meditation 
with austere fervour for final emancipation, Buddha had to resist strong 
temptations thrown in his way by Mara to seduce him. But the 
resolute devotee did not swerve in the least from the path he had selected. 
The love of emancipation was almost a part of his existence. Nor was 
this remarkable, said the Lord to his audience, for in his previous exis- 
tences too he had hated bondage as he hated the devil. In one of these 
he was a fowl, and Mara a fowler. The fowler used carefully to rear his 
fowls, and, as soon as they grew fat, to kill them, and sell their flesh. 
Buddha, as the fowl, having observed this, carefully avoided eating any- 
thing, so he waxed weaker and weaker every day, so much so, that 
he could well slip down through the interstices of the cage in which he 
was confined. The fowler did not notice this incidence. In a short time, 
the fowl gained his master's confidence by appearing very tame and attach- 
ed to him, and, when wholesome food restored him to strength, fled away. 

* This story forms a part of the Bas'aratha Jataka of Ceylon, and is there called 
Sjama J6.taka. The names and details are slightly diiferent. The story is also told of 
the Hindu king Das'aratha in the Eamayana, Antiqnities of Orissa, I. p. 90, 

18 



138 

Story of a Tortoise. — In another existence Buddha was a tortoise 
and Mara a florist. When gathering flowers, Mara espied the tortoise, 
and succeeded in catching it. The tortoise, with unusual presence of 
mind, turned the florist's flower-basket upside down, and as soon as the 
florist hastened to collect his flowers, jumped into the water and escaped. 

Story of a Porpoise. — Mara, in a third existence, was a porpoise 
in the sea, and Buddha a lord of monkeys living in a forest close to 
the sea-shore. Whenever the porpoise came on the shore the monkey- 
king kindly supplied him with fresh fruits from a glomorous fig 
tree. Thus close intimacy was formed between them. But their 
intimacy was an eyesore to the wife of the porpoise. She, on 
one occasion, feigned illness, and demanded from her husband, the 
heart of a monkey, alleging that a monkey's heart alone could cure 
her of her illness. The porpoise urged, how could an aquatic animal get 
the heart of a beast ? She then pointed to his friend the monkey- 
king. The porpoise induced his friend, by telling stories of rich gard- 
ens on the other side of the sea, to cross it on his back. But in 
the midway he plunged into the water, dragging the monkey with him. 
The monkey, in alarm, asked his friend " what are you about ?" The 
porpoise replied " my wife demands a monkey's heart." " You are mis- 
taken, friend," said the monkey with the presence of mind characteristic 
of his species, " I have left my heart hanging on the figtree on the 
sea-shore." The foolish porpoise believed what he said, and carried 
the monkey back to the forest, where he easily escaped from the murder- 
ous hand of his friend. 

Story of a fowler and his prey. — Mara watched Buddha very closely 
for years, but could not discover a single flaw in his conduct. At 
last, to his great mortification, the wicked one had to desist from his 
attempts of tempting the staunch ascetic. In a former existence too 
Buddha, as a learned king of the fowls, frustrated, by his prudence, all 
the attempts to catch the birds living under his authority, which the 
fowler Mara made by scattering grains and by spreading his net. 

Story ofSurhpa, the deer king. — The Bhikshus asked the Lord why 
did he offer his flesh and blood for a Subhashita, or good saying ? 
The Lord replied, once on a time he lived, under the name of Surupa, 
in a forest beyond the Himalaya, as the leader of a herd of wild 
deer. Indra, to try him, approached him in the guise of a hunter, and 



139 

pffered to recite a good saying if he could offer his life for it. He con- 
sented. The Subhashita was — 

VK MTM ^'^r sf Imr ^^ti- 1 
" The dust of a good man's feet is preferable to a mountain of gold." 
The former destroys while the latter increases our grief. Buddha kept 
his promise, and gave his body to the disguised hunter. 

Character of Avohlcita Vydharana. — The Lord, while sojourning on 
the Gridharakuta hill near Edjagriha, was requested by Nanda, a Deva- 
putra, to recount what becomes manifest at the time when is attained 
true knowledge, technically the Avalokita Vyakarana. Nanda was se- 
conded by Sunanda, Snmata, Is'vara, Mahes'vara and other Devaputras 
of pure inclinations and holy abode. 

The purport of what Buddha said on this occasion is this : — 
When a Bodhisattva sees the finite from the shore of infinity, 
the Devaputras of pure abode acquire eighteen pleasing qualities, 
such as association of the past, reproduction of the past, pro- 
duction of the Tuga, production of the auspicious, production 
of the excellent, production of the ancient, production of the com- 
mendable, &c. The piece of ground whereon sitting a Bodhisattva 
kills great Takshas, defeats large armies, saves the souls af multi- 
tudes of men, governs the hearts of men as a charioteer does his horses, 
should possess sixteen qualities. It should be purified by burning, 
provided with a seat at the centre. It should be situated far away 
from the haunts of men, in a country not governed by Mlechchas, and 
■within the limits of Aryavartta. It should be level, dry, full of flower- 
ing plants, well known, well protected, unconquered^ no birth-place for 
an avatara, unfrequented by Mara, like a throne in the earth, hard as 
adamant four fingers deep, a place where soft grass, green as a pigeon's 
neck, grows in circles. 

. Story of Jyotishpala* — Jyotishpala of Jyotishpa was Ananga, son 
of Baudhuma, who reigned at Baudhumati in the 91st Kalpa. Baudhu- 
ma, son of Vipas'yi, became a great Buddha. Once on a time the king 
invited his enlightened son to his capital to receive Buddha. But 
Ananga advanced several miles in a different direction to wel- 

• This story seems to be out of place, for it breaks the narrative of the Avalokita 
baowledge. 



140 

come the Lord, fell prostrate at his feet, and requested him 
to dine at his house for three months. The Lord signified his 
consent hy his silence. The king was greatly annoyed by Ananga's 
taking advantage of him. He remonstrated with him, but in vain. At 
last it was settled that they should feed the Lord with his whole congre- 
gation on alternate days for three months. When only two days of the 
fixed period remained, the king prohibited his subjects to sell anything to 
Ananga, on pain of death. Ananga had still one day to feed the Lord. 
He grew very anxious. But his anxiety was soon removed by Indra, who 
came in person to him, and offered to supply him with everything. 
Then he miraculously brought into existence wells of ghi and curds, he 
created a golden palm tree with silver leaves by the aid of Yisvakarma. 
The boon Ananga obtained for thus entertaining the Lord was pro- 
ficiency in the knowledge of Buddha. 

Amlokiia Vydkarana, continued. — Bodhisattva made use of thirty- 
two different standards of morality, and manifested five different smiles. 
He looked like a lion in five sorts of frowns. He gaped in five 
different ways ; coughed in five different styles. Then he held the 
first meditation, greatly delightful on account of the dispassion it 
produced. In this meditation he had doubts. In the second, he had no 
doubt. It was delightful to him through samddlii, or because it made 
his mind intent on his own emancipation. The third meditation 
afforded him great delight by recalling to his mind the contempt with 
which he had renounced the world The fourth destroyed both pleasure 
and pain. It gave him equanimity of mind by doing away with 
mirth and melancholy consequent on pleasure and pain. 

In the first prahara or watch of the night he concentrated his mind 
for the conception of knowledge with the aid of the celestial eye. He 
saw all, high caste or low caste people, the rich and the poor, in short he 
saw men of all denominations. In the second watch, he directed his 
thoughts to recal to mind his ancient abodes ; and in the last watch 
he reached his goal. He obtained perfect sanibodhi, to which there is 
nothing superior in the world. It showed him what is misery, how it 
is produced, and in what way we can get rid of it. It pointed out to 
him what are the mundane pains, how produced, and how healed. It 
produced in his mind the impression that those who blindly believe 
that existence is only an evolution of the existent, suffer from misery and 
mundane pains. It held out before his mind's eye, as it were in a 



141 

mirror, the process how these are produced and repressed. The delusion 
that existence is an evolution of the existent produces false intuitionsi 
or those which give the conceptions of hunger, sleep &c. False intui- 
tions are the causes of perceptions. From perceptions we arrive at the 
ideas of name and form, whence the sins of the senses have their rise. 
From these we have the sensation of touch (all other sensations heing 
subordinate to touch). From sensation are produced the feelings of pain, 
and from these desire and will. From will proceeds materials. From 
these results the connection of the soul with body, birth, imbecility, 
death, grief, lamentation, misery and melancholy. Thus the long cate- 
gory of pains has its rise.* But he, who has faith in the doctrine of 
non-existence, i. e., existence is evolved from non-existence, from what 
the Naiyayikas call Abhaba, has no delusion, and consequently no false 
intuition. The extensive fabric of misery, thus having its foundation 
undermined, falls to the ground. Bodhisattva remained for a week under 
the Bodhi tree during which millions of gods came to honor him. 

Sfori/ of Bodhisattva^ s descent as a Ndga. — The Lord lived for 
a long time with a large congregation at the park AmrapaK in 
Vais'ali. There Yis'uddhamati, a Bhikshu, requested him to explain 
the Nagavalokita. The Lord said a Jina, named Himas'asi, descended 
from the Tushita heaven in the form of a Naga, and was born heir to 
the king Shadvashana. In the 29 th year of his age, he renounced the 
•world. After 12 years of asceticism he entered the kingdom of Magadha 
where the daughter of a general honored him. He soon after became 
Buddha. After obtaining the Bodhi knowledge, he went to the banks 
of the Nairafijana. The whole earth trembled under his steps. Then 
he returned to the Bodhi tree. The gods, who came to pay their 
respects to the Lord, saw the Bodhi tree. Some conceived it was 16 
miles high, some thought it was thousands of miles high. Some thought 
it was decorated with pearls, some with rubies. Some saw a sinhasana 
upon it, others saw the sinhasana two hundred yojanas high. 

After this follows a panegyric on virtuous conduct and then the 
story is continued thus : 

When the serpent Kala visited Buddha on the banks of the 
Nairanjana, the lord exhibited his skill in working marvels for the deity 
Amrit^s'ana. When he assumed the form of a lion rampant, five 

* The arguments are given at length in the Lalita Vistara, see my Buddha Gava, 
pp. 41ff. 



U2 

hundred lions turned round him in reverence. lu this way he suc- 
cessively assumed the forms of a serpent, an ox, and a cuckoo. The ser- 
pent praised the Lord in loud hymns. The Lord coughed. The 
sound killed Mara with all his attendants. He penetrated into the 
depth of Eodhi knowledge, and set the august wheel of virtue ia 
motion. 

Stori/ of Kus'a. — When he appeared at E^jagriha, the Bhikshus. 
asked him why the wicked Mdra was destroyed by the coughing of the 
Lord. The following story of Kus'a was related in reply.* 

Once on a time, there reigned at Yaranasi, a king named Suban- 
dhu. All of a sudden his bed- chamber miraculously turned into a 
sugarcane plantation. One cane among the rest was so refreshing to 
the eye that the king called some astrologer in, to ascertain what 
was in it. They predicted that a son was to be born to the king from 
the cane. In time the cane swelled to the size of a bamboo. One morn- 
ing a boy issued, forth from the sugarcane tree, and he was named 
Ikshaku, or the sugarcane-born. The boy was nourished by the chief 
lady of the royal seraglio. On the death of S'ubandu, Ikshaku became 
king. He had many queens, of whom Alinda was the chief. Even to an 
advanced age the king was childless. He consulted holy men for getting 
a child. Their advice was to open the seraglio thrice every fortnight 
to the public use. All, except Alinda, took advantage of this liberty, 
and, leaving the palace at night, went wherever they liked. One of 
Subandhu's near relations held the post of Indra in the thirty-third 
heaven. Indignant at the unworthy and shameful conduct of Ikshaku, 
he transformed himself into an old decrepit dirty Brahman suffering 
from a loathsome cough. He managed to throw himself at the royal 
presence, and begged to have a queen for dalliance. The king gave him 
the choice of his seraglio, and he selected Alinda. The Brahman dragged 
the chief Queen of the palace, in spite of her stubborn opposition, to an 
old dilapidated building in the suburb. Alinda had to wash his feet, and 
to stand before him in complete nudity. But she would never consent 
to prostitute her body. In the morning Indra threw off his disguise, 
expressed his satisfaction at her conduct, and rewarded her firmness 
by placing some drugs in her hands. " This will," said he, " remove your 
barrenness. I grant this boon in accordance with your own desire. 

• The substance of tlie story ia tlie same as given ia the Kus'a Jataka, (anie, p. 100). 



143 

Dissolve this powder into water, and take the solution. Tour son 

will be active and energetic, but since you did not respond to my 

loving call, he will be like ugliness personified." Alinda gave a full 

account of this incident to her husband, and he made the whole 

seraglio use the medicine. The quantity of solution was so small and 

the number of ladies so great that they had to take it in homoeopathic 

doses by using the sharp end of a kus ''a blade for their measure-glass. 

Five hundred children were born to the king. He named them 

after the kus'a grass Indrakus'a, Devakus'a &c. The ugly child of Alindd 

was named simply Kus'a or, as some say, S'uddhakus'a. He was 

no favourite with the king, who made several attempts to disinherit him. 

All the king's endeavours were defeated by the activity and energy of 

•Kus'a. On one occasion, the king concealed a small ball of sweetmeat 

under a big heap of large ones, and declared that any one of his sons who 

could discover the small ball would be made king. Kus'a was given 

the last chance, but that only served to make the work easier to him. 

On another occasion the king promised to nominate him his successor 

who could eat the fastest. All waited for dishes to be brought to them, 

but Kus'a took his meal on the bare ground, and was, in spite of the 

king's reluctance, nominated his successor. Finding that Kus'a had on 

him the signs of royalty, the king determined to frustrate his hopes of 

ascending the throne by concealing his wealth, and by declaring in 

enigmatic terms at the time of his death where he had concealed them. 

The king thought Kus'a would not be able to solve the enigmas, and 

that any other son who could get the wealth would get the kingdom 

also. On his accession Kus'a collected all the wealth by solving the 

enigmas. One of these enigmas, for instance, was Tojananidhior 

eight-mile hoard. But Kus'a dug a portion of the stable where 

horses were harnessed, guessing from the word Tuj " to yoke" that 

the stables were meant, and got the wealth. 

Mahendraka, the tribal king of Bhadrakasat in Kanyakubja, had 
a very beautiful daughter. Alinda immediately after Kus'a's accession, 
set a negotiation on foot for her son's marriage to that princess. The 
match was soon settled. The nuptials were celebrated with great pomp 
by proxy at Kanyakubja. But Alinda was apprehensive lest her fair 
daughter-in-law would commit suicide at the sight of so deformed a hus- 
band. She, therefore, prepared rooms underground where, under the plea 



144 

of family customs, she placed the young couple. No light was admitted 
into the rooms. The couple enjoyed their honey-moon in the ■ dark. 
But Sudars'ana, the princess, grew impatient to see her beloved husband, 
and urged her mother-in-law to bring about an interview in the light. 
Alinda, to avoid Sudars'ana's seeing the ugly husband, made one of 
her step-sons personate Kus'a on the throne, while the real Kus'a with 
his thick lips, corpulent belly, deformed head, held the royal umbrella. 
Sudars'ana was well pleased with her supposed husband, but she express- 
ed her indignation at so black and ugly a person being allowed to hold 
the parasol. On one occasion when walking in the royal park she 
fled from him as from a monster. 

But in a short time, her mistake was corrected. At a great 
conflagration of the city the elephant park was saved, simply by the 
activity of the king. He was for some time in every body's mouth. 
They described him as very black, with large red eyes, &c. Sudars'ana 
then found out her error. She learned, to her great surprise and 
grief, that the monster at the park was her real husband. She in- 
stantly begged the permission of her mother-in-law to proceed to Kanya- 
kubja. The permission was granted, and she set out for Kanyakubja 
to hide her shame. 

The king, unable to bear the separation, appointed one of his half- 
brothers as regent, and proceeded himself to the north with a 
Vina in his hand. On his arrival at Kanykubja bis first measure was 
to apprise Sudars'ana of his presence in the city. By his skill in the 
culinary art, he soon got himself appointed at the royal kitchen. There 
in private he tried to persuade his refractory wife, but to ho purpose. 
She was inexorable. 

In the meanwhile, the scandal of Sudars'ana's leaving, and in 
a way divorcing, her husband spread far and wide. Seven feudatories 
of the king of Kanykubja offered to marry her. But their offers were 
indignantly rejected by the king. They made a common cause with one 
another, and advanced to seize the capital. The king, in wrath scolded 
his refractory daughter, and threatened to cut her into seven pieces for 
these seven rebels, if he got worsted in the coming conflict. Sudars'ana, 
trembling with fear at so terrible a threat, had now recourse to her 
almost divorced husband at the kitchen. He promised to save her, and 
to fight her father's cause. The king was now told of his soa-in-law's 



145 

appointment as a cook. He hastened to receive him, and, heaping 
honors upon honors on him, made up for all his former neglect. The 
hero advanced on an elephant towards his enemies, and by a shout at the 
onset so quailed their spirit that they surrendered themselves his 
captives. The king gave them each a daughter at the request of Kus'a. 
After enjoying his triumph for a fevir days at Kanyakubja, Kus'a set out 
in the company of his humbled wife for his own kingdom. On his 
way, he looked at his own image reflected in a glassy brook, and was 
so much disgusted at his deformity that he wanted to drown himself. 
But just at that time Indra manifested himself before him, and presen- 
ted him a garland set with the rare jewel called Jyotirasa. " Put this 
on, and it will make you," said Indra, " the most beautiful man on earth. 
When you wish to assume your own form, cover this with your clothes 
and your beauty will be hidden." Kus'a put on the jewel, and 8u- 
darsana was transported with delight, when she found her husband 
blessed with a celestial form. 

Buddha was Kus'a ; Mahendraka, the king of Kanyakubja, was 
Mahandma ; Maya was Alinda ; Sudars'ana was Tas'odhara ; Mara 
and his companions were the seven rebel kings. 

At the request of the Bhikshus the Lord explained to them why Kus'a 
was born so ugly. He said, in one of his previous existences, he was 
Sudars'ana, and had a very loving wife. In his absence, she enter- 
tained a Pratyeka Buddha with dainty food. Vexed at the sight of a 
young man in his wife's company, he railed at them. His wife told 
him to put a stop to his railleries, adverting to the holy character of 
the guest, and called heaven to witness that there was nothing wrong 
in her. The Pratyeka Buddha, too, to convince the householder 
of his sacred character, fled like a flamingo through the sky. This 
set at rest the suspicions of Sudars'ana ; he begged his wife's pardon, 
fell into a profound meditation, and wished to have the faithful lady for 
his wife in the next existence. Sudars'ana was that faithful wife. Her 
husband was ugly, because he had entertained unbecoming suspicions 
against a Pratyeka Buddha. 

Stories of Harass attempts to seduce Buddha. — The question was 

asked. Why could not Mara find a single flaw in the Lord's conduct, 

though he watched carefully for several years ? The Lord said, this 

was not the only time he had so failed ; once on a time the leader qf 

\d 



146 

a wild herd of cattle was followed long by a wily jackal who wanted 
to have the ox's flesh, but the ox proved more cunning than the jackal, 
and escaped. The ox was Buddha and the jackal Mara. This 
story is called Vrishabha Jataka. 

Buddha was at another time a leader of a troop of monkeys and 
Mdra a marine monster who devoured every one of the monkey troop 
which happened to come to the water side. The gradual decrease of the 
number of his troop attracted the attention of the leader. After a 
careful investigation he found the footprints of monkeys leading 
to the water side were far greater than those returning from it. 
He immediately published a mandate prohibiting his troop from going 
to the water side, and thus saved all further destruction. This story is 
called Vdnara Jataka. 

In another existence the Lord escaped from the snares of Mara, 
and made him experience a sad disappointment in the following 
manner. Mara was a serpent, and Buddha a leader of monkeys. 
The monkey-chief fell once into the lake where the serpent dwelt. The 
serpent, to devour him, raised his head high above the water. The subtle 
monkey instantly addressed the serpent, saying, " I would be no adequate 
food for you, but see yonder there is a large troop of monkeys." As soon 
as the stupid serpent turned his head to see the troop, the monkey put 
one of his legs on his head and at one leap reached the shore. This 
story is also called Vdnara Jdtaha. 

Story of Punyavanta and his friends. — For several successive exist- 
ences the Lord was a lover of virtue. In one of these he was Punyavanta, 
son of Anjana, a king of Yaranasi. He had four friends, all sons of high 
officials. They were Yiryyavanta, S'ilpavanta, Eupavanta, and Prajna- 
vanta ; their names showing their peculiar excellences. The five friends 
set out on a journey to Kampilya in order to test the usefulness of their 
respective excellences. They found a block of timber floating on the river. 
Viryyavanta, or he who was possessed of great strength, volunteered 
to bring it to the bankT. He succeeded. The timber, to his great ad- 
vantage, proved to be sandal-wood. The proceeds from its sale, 
a hundred thousand pieces of gold, were distributed among the friends. 
They were very glad, and they loudly praised the advantages of strength. 
S'ilpavanta, or he who was skilled in the fine arts, then took up 
a Vina or harp, and sitting in a corner of the city, began to play 



147 

upon it. The charm of his performaaee drew crowds around him. 
It was soon found that he had no match in the city. The Vina had 
seven cords, but such was the dexterity of S'ilpavanta that when 
one of these was broken, the same melting music proceeded from the 
remaining six cords. He managed to perform the same tune even 
when there was only one cord left in the instrument. He obtained large 
rewards for his skill. These he shared with his friends, who were all 
loud in the praise of artistic skill. 

The charm of Eiipavanta's beauty captivated the heart of the 
first public woman at Kampilya. At the bidding of her fascinating 
paramour, the woman gave large sums of money to his friends, and 
they all acknowledged the excellence of beauty. 

It was now the turn for Prajnavanta, or wise man, to show his 
worth. He went to a market place where he found a banker's son 
quarrelling with a public woman for a sum of money, a hundred thousand 
karandas. The banker's son had called in the woman the night before^ 
and had offered her the sum of money in question as her fee for the 
night. But she had other engagements, and therefore had to decline 
the offer, promising to come in the morning. In the morning she was 
told that the banker's son was in no want of her company as he had 
enjoyed it in a dream. The woman then laid her claim to the money 
on the ground that it was with her that he had passed the night. 
The quarrel grew, and there was none who could bring it to an 
amicable conclusion. Prajfidvanta offered his mediation. He ordered 
the money . to be brought in, placed a mirror before it, and com- 
manded the public woman to take the money from within the mirror. 
" It is your shadow" said the subtle arbitrator, " that he enjoyed in a 
dream, and you are entitled to a shadow ; how can you expect real and 
tangible money in return. Take the money reflected in the mirror." The 
woman was put out of countenance, and the banker's son, flushed with 
success, gave a heap of gold to Prajnavanta, who called in his friends 
to partake of his gains. 

The meek and virtuous Punyavanta planted himself before the 
royal palace. A minister's son, charmed with his simplicity, sought his 
friendship. Punyavanta was lodged in a part of the king's residence. 
When he slept there, he was waited upon by the king's daughter, who 
felt an affection for him. The royal officers, having discovered the 



148 

princess iu the company of a stranger brought the stracger to the king. 
On irivestigation Punyavanta proved innocent. His high lineage too 
remained no longer concealed. He was married to the Princess of 
Kampilya, and was appointed heir to the kingdom. 

Sbnaka was Viryyavanta in his previous existence. Eashtrapala 
was S'ilpavanta. Surendra was Rupavanta. S ariputra was Prajnavanta. 

Story of Vijitdri. — In another existence the Lord suffered greatly for 
his love of virtue. He was then the open-handed munificent king Vijitari 
of Mithila. His ministers and friends combined to banish him from the 
kingdom in order to prevent the drain on the royal treasury on account of 
his reckless donations. He lived in the midst of aforest in the Himalaya, 
where Indra came to try his sincerity. In a long speech, Indra pointed 
out to the ex-king the disadvantages of reckless munificence. He 
produced a hell before the king where all the sufferers were ex- 
travagant donors. But all these could not produce the least change in 
the king's mind, and he declared that it was better to suffer in hell than 
to see people suffering in the world. Well pleased at the declaration, 
Indra went to heaven, where he commanded the clouds never to let a 
drop of water fall on Mithila. The famine-stricken Maithilese restored 
their banished king to the throne, and the drought was at an end. 

Story of Kds'yapa's retirement from home. — When the lord was 
living on the bank of the tank Karandaka, Mahakas'yapa gave a 
complete history of the state of his mind before taking the Pra- 
vrajya. The state of a householder appeared to him to be a state 
of sinfulness and bondage, Brahmacharya appeared to be pure and 
stainless. He renounced the world, and an accident brought him 
in contact with Buddha, who gave him instruction. Buddha taught 
him to carefully guard his mind from the allurements of the senses. He 
told him to see with his eyes, to smell with his nose, to taste with his 
tongue, to touch with his skin, but never to consider the objects of the 
senses to be realities, for belief in the reality of sensuous objects brought 
forth misery, pain and melancholy. 

Story of Sdriputra. — Four miles from Eajagrih^ there was a 
small hamlet named Alanda. A rich Brahman of that village had 
seven sons by his wife Sari. One of them only survived. His name 
was Upatishya alias Sariputra. He had a friend, named Kolita, of 
the Mudgala clan j he was named MaudgalSyaaa after the name of his 



149 

clan. They studied together under the same preceptor. Once on a time 
on mounting the Agrasamaja hill, they fell in with five hundred 
Yatis resident there. The state of perfect contentment in which 
they lived, the consideration they enjoyed, the music and dance 
of their establishment, stimulated the young friends to enter the 
hermitage. They were admitted into the fraternity by Sanjayi, 
son of Eaivati. Upatishya, known in history as Sariputra, learned 
all the scriptures relating to asceticism in a week, and his com- 
panion did the same in two weeks. By chance they met TJpasena, 
a disciple of Buddha. TJpasena was on his usual begging excur- 
sion. They asked him in private what sort of lessons did he receive 
from his preceptor ? TJpasena replied that the cardinal doctrine of their 
faith was that the world is a creation of pratyaya or false notion. 
The subtle and penetrating intellect of Sariputra could not fail to 
perceive the fundamental difference and vast superiority of this doctrine. 
He resolved to throw himself, a humble student, at the feet of the Lord, 
and persuaded Maudgalyayana and the five hundred Tatis to adopt the 
same resolution. The Lord was then living in the same city. In the 
first conference with the Lord, S'ariputra enquired of him as to who was 
subject to birth and death, to life and bondage, and what were the causes 
of these four phenomena ? The Lord replied, " a union of the four sub- 
stances lead to all these. The causes of birth are ignorance, insatiable 
desire for enjoyment and work. The causes of death are the loss of 
longevity, loss of work and want of appetite. The causes of life are 
longevity, work and form. The cause of bondage is one, viz. work ; 
and work cannot be destroyed until ignorance is dispelled, and thirst 
after enjoyment is quenched." By lessons and precepts like these, the 
Lord emancipated S^ariputra and others from birth, death and 
bondage. 

The Lord said, this was not the first time that he had saved Sari- 
putra and five hundred of his companions. In one of his former exist- 
ences he was K^s'i, a powerful horse who crossed over the sea with five 
hundred merchants on his back, and thereby saved their lives from the 
snares of the female ogres of the Eakshashidvipa. Excepting the 
incident of the laughing lamp, the present story is substantially the 
same as that given in the (Bhadrakalpavadana) . 

Story of TJcUyi, or Kdka Jdtaha, — When the fame of Buddha for 



150 

his sanctity spread far and wide, the inhabitants of both sexes 
of Kapilavastu clamorously demanded that he should be invited from 
Eajagriha to their city. S^uddhodana, to please them, sent a deputation 
to invite him. The deputation consisted of Buddha's youthful com- 
panion Udayi and his favourite groom Chhandaka. They were, 
on their arrival at Eajagriha, converted to the new faith by the 
Lord- The S^akyas who had been raised to divine rank by their merits, 
descended from heaven and urged the Lord to bless their relatives by 
his lectures. 

Following the example of S^ikhi, an elder Buddha, the Lord under- 
took the journey to Kapilavastu on foot. Blessed were the lands 
through which he passed. Health and plenty followed in his train. 
Nature wore a smiling appearance wherever he presented himself. 
Barren fields became fertile, and ruined cities rose into sudden pros- 
perity. Celestial music filled the air. Heavenly flowers were showered 
on the road. Gods smeared the roads with unearthly sandal paste. 
His journey resembled a royal progress. It took him fifteen days to 
reach the environs of Kapilavastu. The grove, called Nyagrodharama, 
was fitted out for his reception. He was attended by eighteen hundred 
Bhikshus. In the morning this whole army of beggars entered 
the city to collect alms. Raja S^uddhodana, while on his way to Nya- 
grodharama, happened to fall in with some of these bald-headed, half- 
starved, emaciated men. He immediately fell into a melancholy vein of 
thought. " what a change ! What a great misfortune. My imperial 
son is reduced to the most degraded condition of human life !" These 
thoughts were too much for him. Tears trickled down his aged cheeks. 
He ordered bis coachman to turn back, and determined never to see 
his wayward boy. The news of the king's strange conduct reached 
Nyagrodhardma in a short time. Udayi, at the Lord's bidding, 
passed to the royal presence through the air, showed some miracles, 
praised Buddha in hymns, convinced the king of his son's great power, 
and induced him to give up his former resolution. 

When the king came to Buddha's residence, Buddha showed him 
many miracles. S^uddhodana fell on his knees before his son. Buddha 
delighted him with an affectionate and interesting conversation. 

" How was it" asked the Bhikshus " that S^uddhodana was pur- 
suaded by Udayi P" The Lord's reply was that in times of yore there 



151 

was a king, named Brahmadatta, at Varanasi, and a chief of the crows, 
named Supatra, was his neighbour. Supars'v5,.the wife of the crow-king, 
was big with child. She longed for princely food. The minister of the 
crow-king was immediately ordered to supply royal dishes. None 
of the eighty, thousand of the king's subjects volunteered to steal 
viands from Brahmadatta's kitchen. The minister set himself resolutely 
to meet the queen's wishes. On the first day he succeeded very 
easily. On the second day, the men employed in the kitchen spread 
a net all round the cook-sheds ; but the cunning crow snatched 
a portion of the food from the cook's hand as he was carrying it 
to the dining-room. The food also was, on the third day, covered 
with a net. The crow struck at the cook's nose with his beak ; 
but the man dexterously managed to catch hold of him. He com- 
plained to the king of the injury done by the wretched crow to 
his nose. The crow too gave a true history of his mission. The 
history surprised the king. He admired the zeal and fidelity of the 
crow, and ordered a portion of the royal food to be set apart for the 
crow-queen every day. Buddha was the crow-king ; Yasodhara, the 
queen ; Brahmadatta, S'uddhodana ; and the minister, XJdayi. 

The story of Hastim Jdtaka was told in answer to the query why 
Mahaprajavati was blind with tears in his absence, {vide Bhadrakalpa 
Avadana, Story XXXII), 

Story of three Asuras.—The Lord trained many thousands of 
creatures in his faith, by preaching, by precept, and also by working 
miracles. Eahulu, Muchalinda and Sambara, three royal Asuras, 
honoured the Lord with fiowers and salutations. They were, they 
said, candidates for the ranks of Arhat. They fell into a deep 
meditation. The Lord smiled at their over anxiety. Beautiful rays of 
variegated colours proceeded from his teeth. These turned round 
him and then disappeared. As'vaki asked the reason of his smiling, 
for he knew Buddha never smiled in vain. ' These Asuras' said 
the Lord, ' are sure to be in heaven. They will descend from that 
place and worship Jina, and, after some hundred thousands of years, 
become Jinas.' 

Story of Yos'odhara's blandishments. — S'uddhodana invited the Lord 
with his whole congregation, and gave him a splendid treat. He 
was followed by Gautami, Mahaprajavati. Xas'odhara too gave him 



152 

an entertainment. She approached her long-lost husband in a most 
bewitching trim. She herself served him with dishes, and displayed 
all those female arts which delude and enslave the sterner sex. But 
her empire over the preacher's heart had been lost for ever. She sent 
some choice sweetmeats through her darling child Eahula, who asked for 
his paternal estates. Buddha said that he could give him an immense 
amount of wealth if he would only enter the Pravrajya. Buddha 
returned to Nyagrodharama after delivering a long lecture on virtue. 

Why did Tasodhard try to tempt Buddha ? In reply to this 
interesting question, the story of Ekas'ringa was by the Lord narrated 
as related in a preceding page. 

Padmdvati Jdtaka follows next (see page 65). And after that 
Chandra Surya Jataka [see page 69J. 

Story of TTpyaka called Gangapdla Jdtaka. — S^uddhodana issued a 
proclamation commanding all the S'akyas who had more sons thaa 
one to send one son each to the hermitage for the service of the Lord. 
Five hundred S'akya boys left their homes, resolved to enter the pra- 
vrajya. A barber boy, who went to shave the Lord, obtained two 
DhySnas from him. The razor was, at the command of the Lord, 
then taken away from his hand, and he obtained two others. The 
S'akyas gave all their rich dresses to the barber boy. But the 
boy, Upali, was then in a different mood. Disclaiming the rich 
gifts, he presented himself before the Lord as a candidate for pra- 
vrajyd. The S'akyas and Upali were made to accept pravrajya on 
the same day. At the conclusion of the ceremony, the Lord said, 
that Upali should be the chief of the S'akya Bhikshua. The S'akyas 
honored Upali by falling prostrate at his feet. 

The Bhikshus thought it strange that the proud S^atyas should 
bring their heads low before a lowborn barber. " But" said the Lord, 
" this is not the first time that they have prostrated themselves before 
a lowborn man." He gave the following story in illustration : — 

Two poor boys of Benares gave a few beans enclosed in leaf-pac- 
kets to a Pratyeka Buddha. One of them desired to become a Brah- 
man in his next existence, and the other a Kshatriya. For that act 
of charity, they had what they wished. One was born, Brahmadatta, 
king of Benares ; the other, Upyaka, a Brahman. Upyaka lived 



153 

for a time ia intimate terms with a girl with whom he had fallen 
in love. She desired to have perfumery and flower wreaths. TJpyaka 
proceeded to the banks of the Ganges to get alms wherewith to buy 
the needful. He got a masha (a bean). When he was bringing it it 
slipped from his hand, and was lost. He set to find it out. Brahmadatta, 
finding a Brahman intent on the diligent search of something in the 
scorching meridian sun, sent for him, and asked him what he was about. 
On being told of the loss of the masha the king offered to give him one. 
" But," said TJpyaka, " that would make two if I could successfully find 
out my lost bean." The King ofi'ered him a couple of m^shas, but still the 
Brahman would not give up his painful search. He only said 
if he could find his one out, that would certainly add one to all that 
the king could give. The king at last consented to give him half 
his possessions, when TJpyaka gave up his search. The king sacrificed 
so much, only because he was 'disposed to love the Brahman. On one 
occasion, putting his head on the lap of TJpyaka, he fell into a sound sleep. 
TJpyaka, who already possessed half the kingdom through the king's 
benevolence, now formed a project of obtaining the other half by put- 
ting him to death. But his conscience stung him, and he gave up the foul 
intent. When the king awoke, TJpyaka plainly confessed his treason- 
able purposes, and asked his permission to renounce the world, saying, 
that ambition can never be satisfied. On the departure of TJpyaka, the 
king composed a verse in which he denounced ambition, and quoted 
TJpyaka's conduct in illustration. Gangapala, the king's barber, hearing 
the gatha, went over to TJpyaka and became a Bhikshu. He soon 
attained the five experiences. [Panchabhijna.] 

The success and good fortune of Gangapala induced the king to 
throw himself with his whole court at TJpyaka's feet. This Gangapala 
was TJpali, and the S^akyas were Brahmadatta's followers. 

Story of Makdgovinda.— The Bhikshus asked the Lord why so 
many renounced the world when the Lord himself entered the her- 
mitage ? The Lord gave them a legend of Vipas'yi. Panchas'ikha, 
the son of a heavenly chorister, illuminating the four quarters of the 
globe with the lustre of his brilliant person, descended to where 
the Lord was, and begged him to explain the legend of Mahdbrahma. 
The Lord said, king Dis'ampati had a son named Renu. His family- 
priest had a son named Jyotihpala who, having silenced all his 
20 



154 

opponents in a controversy, obtained the title of Malidgovinda. By 
the instigation of Mahagovinda six nohle Kshatriyas demanded 
from Eenu a share of his father's territories. Eenu was compelled 
to dismember his father's empire, and cede the six provinces of Kalinga, 
Pattana, Mahes'avati, Varanasi, Eoruka, and Mithila to the refractory 
nobles. 

Successful in their ambitious projects, the nobles proceeded to Maha- 
govinda to ask him what to do next. Govinda turned his face to the 
north, and fell into a deep meditation. Mahabrahma appeared be- 
fore him in the fulness of his glory, and stood over his head. The saintly 
priest, awed by the divine presence, chanted solemn hymns, and offered 
flowers and incense. The boon that he prayed to obtain was instruo' 
tion how to obtain immortality and perfect beatitude. The great 
truth was revealed. Mahabrahm4 uttered the following words and 
disappeared : 

" Have affection for none ; be merciful to all ; seek solitude ; dis- 
criminate truth from falsehood ; have no amagandha (raw smell) ; forsake 
the company of women ; and you will obtain immortality." The 
amagandhas are : anger, untruth, talkativeness, egotism, envy, cruelty, 
speaking ill of others, and wrath. 

Mahagovinda, having the great truth revealed to him, continued 
no longer in the wicked course of the world, but with Benu, the six 
Kshatriya chiefs, and thousands of others, entered the blissful state of 
Pravrajya. Buddha was that Mahdgovinda. 

Siory of Bahubuddha. — The Lord . said to Ananda there lived 
in a certain Kalpa, Indradhvaja, a Tathagata and Arhat, in the 
beautiful city of Indratapana. He explained the Maha Buddha to 
Mabadhvaja ; Hahadhvaja did so to Dhvajottama, Dhvajottama to 
Dhvajaruchira, and so on, till it was imparted to Bahubuddha. Then 
come some verses in praise of Samyak Samddhi. 

■ Bahula^s conversion. — S^uddhodana requested the Lord to take his 
meal at his palace as long as he would be at Eapilavastu. The lord was 
eilen t. Edhula obtained the five lessons from his father, and renounced the 
world in spite of his mother's remonstrances. The five lessons are these : 
(1) " I take refuge with Buddha, I take refuge with Dharma, I take refuge 
with Sangha ; Buddha is my only protector ; I have none else to look 
after me ; Dharma is my only protector, I have none else to look after me ; 



155 

Sangha is my only protector, I have none else to look after me. (2) I 
solemnly take a vow of seclusion for life. (3) I will not take anything not 
given me. (4) I will never tread the paths of a wrong-doer. (5) I will 
never tell an untruth. I will fly away from the haunts of pleasure.-" 

Sfor^ of Dlarmalabdha. — When the wicked Mara, discomfited 
and put to route by the Lord, was lamenting over his sad lot, his 
daughters, Tantra, Rati and others, tried their wily arts to seduce the 
great ascetic from the path of virtue. But they too shared their 
father's fate. After this, the Lord set the wheel of his religion in 
motion, and became the great founder of a new creed. The Bhikshus, 
always bent on enquiring after the causes of their Lord's actions, 
asked him the reason of the discomfiture of the daughters of Mara. 
They were told that there was in the city of Benares a good man 
named Dharmalabdha, who grew rich by enterprising voyages by 
sea. A company of five hundred enterprising youths waited in a de- 
putation on him to request him to show them the way to wealth. He 
received them graciously, but at the same time gave them fully to under- 
stand the dangers and difliculties of sea voyages. He told them that 
he traded with the people of the Rakshasidvipa. The Rakshasis of the 
place were adepts in all sorts of fascinations. Unless one was con- 
fident of rising superior to their temptation, it was not safe to transact 
business with them. One who fell into their snare had no hope of 
seeing the Jambuivipa any more. But still these worshippers of 
mammon persisted. Dharmalabdha set sail with these five hundred mer- 
chants in his company, and a few men-of-war to protect them. But the five 
hundred young men, unable to resist the temptation of sensual enjoyment 
placed before them by the Rakshasis, fell into their snare, and were lost. 
In a few days after their landing at the cannibal island the gross and 
material part of their body formed delicious dishes for the delecta- 
tion of the female ogres. Dharmalabdha alone came back, laden with 
riches. Repeatedly baffled in their attempt to tempt Dharmalabdha, 
the wicked gang of demons held a solemn council. It was determined 
at that meeting that one of their number should go to tempt and 
ruin the innocent man. The chief of the mischievous crew— an incarna- 
tion of deception— undertook to proceed to Benares. Concealed in the 
form of a celestial damsel, and accompanied by an amiable and handsome 
child, she presented herself at the door of Dharmalabdha, demanding 



156 

admission into his seraglio as his married wife. She was denied access 
by that firm and experienced merchant. But Brahmadatta, the king 
of Benares, ignorant of her wiles and impelled by a chivalric feeling, 
not only gave her protection, but took her as his wife. At the dead of 
night the Rakshasi left the royal bed, made a feast of the king, and then 
gorged her appetite with all that fell in her way. She did not even 
Spare the elephants. Anarchy prevailed over the whole country. Next 
morning, at d great council, Dharmalabdha was elected king. The 
Kakshasis were the daughters of Mai'aj and Dharmalabdha was the Lord 
himself.* 

Story of a Goatherd,. — When the Lord was practising austerities at 
Nairanjana in the burning heat of the meridian sun, a goatherd planted 
a prpal tree by his side to relieve him. In a short time it grew into a 
gigantic size, overshadowing an extensive tract of land. The goatherd 
saw with delight the sudden growth of his tree. Eor the cheerfulness of 
his heart, the source of all human bliss, the goatherd was, after his death, 
tfauslatfed to the region of the gods of the class thirty-three. He came 
down from that high position to dedicate the tree to the Lord, who 
with silence accepted the offering. 

Story of the Lord's Progress from Uruvilvd. — From Nairanjana the 
Lord went to Kshirika, and thence proceeded to a small hamlet named 
Ujjvala. There he remained for 49 days without touching human food. 
On the fiftieth day a small quantity of ghi and honey was offered to him 
by a merchant named Trapushabhallika.f The Lord gave a few of his 
hairs, the pairings of his nails, and a few pieces of stones brought from a 
great distance by his miraculous power, to the merchant and his com- 
panions. The merchant established a stupa over these nails at a place 
named Baluka, over the hairs at Keshasthali, and over the stones at S'ilu. 
Indra gave the Lord a myrobalan. After eating the kernel, the Lord 
threw the stone on the ground. Instantly from that stone grew forth a 
tree of gigantic dimensions. This is the first time that the Lord's 
Riddhi or miraculous power was displayed. Then for six long years 

• This is the third version of the story told on page 97. The second version appears 
on p. 149. 

t In the Zahta- Vistara, chapter XXIV, there are two merchants named Trapmha 
and Bhallika. 



157 

the Lord practised severe penances at TJruvilv^. At this time a pious 
man brought a S'onapanshukula* before the Lord, and offered it to him 
on the express condition that he should not eat it until he brought his 
austerities to a successful termination. The offerer was translated 
to the region of the thirty-three gods. When the lord wanted to 
partake of the fruit, he needed water to wash his hands and feet. Indra 
excavated a river with his nails. The river is still called Panikhata. 
When the lord wanted a vessel to wash the fruit, four great celestial 
kings offered him four stone vases. In one he washed the S'onapansukula ; 
in the second he purified it; the third he miraculously threw at 
Trapushbhallika's dwelling in the Gandhara country. In the fourth he 
ate. These four stone vases were afterwards consecrated by men. 
The Lord then bathed in the stream of PfinikhSta. He then wished to 
cross it. The Devaputra Kakubha, who lived in a large shady tree 
named Kakubha, ferried him over to the other side of the river. There 
he sat under the pipal tree planted by the goatherd. There for the. 
first time did the thought of preaching the true religion cross his mind. 
He should not, he thought, keep to himself, the truth, so subtle, so 
brilliant, so grand, and calculated to improve the condition of mankind 
so greatly. Mahabrahma and other gods at the same time came down 
from the regions celestial, to confirm him in his resolution. He felt in 
him a strength produced by previous meditation and by an irreproachable 
character. He thought there were only five men of respectable antece- 
dents who may receive the doctrines to be preached by him. They 
were at Benares. He directed his steps, accordingly, towards that holy 
city. His route lay through Gaya, Nahal, Bundadvira, Lohitavastuka, 
Gandhapura and Sdrathipura. The last place was situated on the 
banks of the Ganges. In the form of a goose the Lord flew over 
the river, and reached the deer park at YSrinasi. On his way from 
Gaya to Varanasi, he was entertained by Sudarsana and Kamandalu, 
two Nagarajas, and Gaudha and Bundha, two Takshas. He had much 
talk with Nadi and Upaka. In these conversations he declared in 
unmistakable terms his own prophetship, and spoke in high terms 
of his great mission on. earth. He claimed honors, superior to those 
of Brahmachdris, Jinas and Arhats, and gave out that he derived every 
doctrine of his creed by inspiration. f 

* A kind of plum.. 

t This story of the Lord's last days at Urnvilva and his progress to Benares differs 



158 

At Benares, the five youths of respectable antecedents, who were 
his first companions, were converted. They became Bhikshus. There 
were, they were told, two ends which a Bhikshu should always 
keep in view. There should be no ignorant hankering after external 
enjoyments which were mere delusions, and also there should be 
no blind faith in the existence of a soul as the source of suffer- 
ing and distress. To attain these two ends it is necessary to meditate 
on the four Aryasatyas ' or noble truths.' These were that there were 
suffering, combination of sufferings, an annihilation of suffering, and a 
Pratipat or belief which leads to the end of all sufferings. Union with 
enemies and separation from friends &c., are sufferings. Social instincts, 
ambition, love, &c., are the combinations of different sufferings. The 
annihilation of these feelings constitutes the annihilation of suffering. 
The belief or Pratipat has eight subordinate parts : 1, true insight, 2, true 
resolve, 3, true speech, 4, true end of Karma, 5, pure living, 6, true 
exercise, 7, true recollection, and 8, true meditation. The sufferings and 
their combinations are to be shuned by all possible means, while their 
annihilation is to be sought with eagerness. These noble truths were 
twelve times thought over and mastered by the Lord. 

External qualities, feelings of consciousness, beliefs and impres- 
sions. — Are these Atma ? The external qualities are not Atma, for they 
produce misery, and do not tend towards the attainments of the highest 
bliss, the goal of human desires. For the same considerations neither 
feeling, nor consciousness, nor the others can be regarded as Atma. 
Candidates for Pravrajya should learn very carefully that the external 
qualities, feelings, consciousness, beliefs or impressions, either external or 
internal, subtle or gross, good or bad, past, present or future — these 
are neither one's own self, nor are belonging to him. Misery and 
melancholy have their root in these, therefore men should try to disdain 
them. They are transitory, subject to birth and death, therefore the 
sooner these are discarded the better it is for the hermit. 

Story of Ajfidtakaundilya. — Ajnatakaundilya thought over these 

noble truths for three times, and his eyes were opened. He was in 

one of hia former existences a potter who cured a Pratyeka Buddha 

from a bilious disorder, and obtained from him the boon that he should 

be the first man to receive the religion of Sugata. 

in many respects from what ooonrs in the Lalita Vislara, and seems to be a very corrupt 
version. See my Buddha Gayd, pp. 45 f. 



159 

Ajnatakaundilya was, in another existence, a merchant relieved by 
the amiable and virtuous king of Kos'ala, who, to avoid bloodshed in 
a war with the king of Kds'i, had abdicated his kingdom, and gone into a 
voluntary exile. While roaming in the Dakshinapatha, he happened 
to see a shipwrecked merchant who was on his way to the king of Kos'ala, 
on whose munificence he counted for repairing his fallen fortunes. 
Little did the poor man know that he was addressing the very king of 
Kos'ala whose fortunes were now no better than his own. The king 
instantly disabused him, gave him an account of his own misfortunes, and 
expressed his sorrow that he could no longer be useful to a man in distress. 
The poor merchant, disappointed at the last resort which hope had point- 
ed out to him, fell into a swoon, and remained insensible for a long time. 
But a glimpse of hope now shot through the heart of the good 
king. He remembered that a price had been set on his head ; so 
he persuaded the distressed gentleman, now recovering from the effect 
of the swoon, to take him alive to the king of Benares. This spirit of 
self-sacrifice surprised the king of Kas'i, who now repented of what he 
had done, and not only gave the merchant a large sum of money, but 
reinstated the king on his throne. 

8tory of Five Disciples. Bhadravargiya Jataka. — The Bhikshus 
enquired how it was that the five men of respectable antecedents, who 
were the followers of Tirthikas, and were therefore ill-disposed to the 
Lord's creed, were so easily converted ? It was an indication of very 
great sagacity in the Lord that he made them his staunchest adherents 
first of all. In one of their previous existences they were cast into the 
sea together with the Lord, who was the captain of the merchantman. 
They were all floating on the raging surge without the faintest hope 
of being wafted to firm land. On a sudden they found the captain 
whom they all implored to save them. Equally distressed with the 
rest, the captain happened to remember an old saying, that the sea 
never drowns a corpse. He instantly commanded them to lay fast 
hold of him, which they did. He drew out a knife and plunged it in 
bis breast. With his dead body they all were thrown upon the shore. 

' Stories of wicked kings.— Theie was, once on a time, a king 
named Kalabha, reigning at Benares. Walking about in his pleasure- 
garden in the company of the ladies of his zenana, he fell into a pro- 
found sleep under a tree. In the meanwhile a Rishi from the Uttara- 



160 

kuru came to the garden, and began to deliver a lecture to the ladies. 
The king, when he left his bed, was greatly enraged at the conduct 
of the uncouth stranger who had violated the sanctity of his female 
quarters. He asked the Rishi who he was. The Rishi declared 
himself to be a Kshantivadi, one who pardons all injuries, where- 
upon the king drew his sword and cut off one of the Rishi's fingers. 
The Rishi remained unmoved ; the king cut a second finger, and then 
a third. Gradually his body was cut to pieces ; but he could not be 
made to show any signs of distress. Milk only issued forth from the 
wounds and no blood. The Rishi was Buddha in a former life. 

King Arjuna of Hastinapura was in the habit of killing those 
holy men who were unable to satisfy him by answers to the questions 
put to them by him. He put to death Gautama, a most amiable old 
Rishi, only for failing to answer one of his questions. 

Nalikela was the king of Dantapura in Kalinga, who offered to some 
Rishis for their repast a basketful of wild thorny berries called s'vanakha 
(Flacourtea cotaphracta) , and forbad them to laugh on pain of death. 

Dandaki was another of the wicked kings. He reigned at Gobar- 
dhana in the DakshinSpatha. Vatsa, a disciple of Kas'yapa, who came 
for a change from the Himalayan regions (for he was suffering from 
consumption) to Dandaki's city, was buried under a heap of dust by that 
wicked monarch. He was, however, rescued by a virtuous minister of 
the king. On the seventh day after his rescue Vatsa died, and im- 
mediately after his death, there was a great conflagration which 
converted the whole city into a heap of ruins. The king perished with 
all his wicked followers, the rescuer of Vatsa alone escaping for the 
timely information afforded to him by the Rishi. 

Another disciple of Kds'yapa, Sarabhanga by name, obtained great 
merit by his austerities and his prowess. He was present at a great 
sacrifice held at a place between the Ganges and the Yamuna. Ninety- 
eight thousands of Rishis, three kings of Hastina and Dantapura {uiz. 
TJdyaka, Ashtamaka, Bhinsaratha), and Indra, along with many gods, 
honored the sacrifice by their presence. Before this assembled multitude 
of gods and men Sarabhanga revealed the terrible fate that had befallen 
these four wicked kings who dishonored the venerable sages. Dandaki, 
he said, was hurled headlong into the abyss of a hell named Kukkura ; 
Arjjuna, with head downwards, was placed upon the stake, NSlikela lived 
on all that was loathsome ; and Kdlabha was drowned in the hell Abichi. 



161 

Buddha in one of his previous existences was Svarabhanga, there- 
fore he preached to all. 

Notable conversions. — During his short sojourn in the Mrigadava, 
the great preacher converted 30 kings and Piirna, a young Brahman 
of Dronavastu in the Kos'ala country. Oa his way from Uruvilva he 
also converted 700 Eishis with matted hairs. 

When he was at Uruvilva, Raj^ Vimbisdra desired to see him, and 
instantly heard of the saint's sadden appearance in the Shashtivana of his 
own capital Eajagriha. The Lolxi preached the truth to him, and showed 
him the way to Nirvana. The reason of showing this extraordinary 
favour to the king was, that in one of his pievious existences he was the 
Lord's playmate. His name then was Arindama, and that of the Lord 
S'renya. He was king while S'renya was a hermit. In that existence 
too the Lord, after 84,000 years of separation, had remembered his old 
friend, and brought him to a hermit's life. 

M. Em. Senart has an edition of this work now in the press. 

Beginning, v^ srir: ''ift^i^T^^Tg i ^a^fsri)i<Tsi'g'^i«i: ^^jiwi! i w^rw^'ir- 
siafri^jgT, siftr^T^i^T, ^^m'^jgr, ^f^r^r'n^'^sgr i f «•• ^^'^- 

^!rm I ^PjIsfr^fiSH^^Tf T S(fT!n?T5r'W5iT«)t sraflW^sfl^, yr^'iwsrTii^- 

End. t^titT'^^^rsr '^Txiwr^ ^ ^^t srunwrr n^^^^tr v^\xjiv. n\ 

Colophon. \fn ^%\-^^^'^-^ Wf^l « 
21 



162 

No. B. 28. 

MANICHl/DA AVADANA. 

Substance, paper, 12 x 36. Folia, 50. Lines on a page, 6. Extent 
in s'lokaS, 1800. Character, Nevvari, Date, ? Appearance, old. Prose 
and verse. Incorrect. 

Story of Maniehiida, a pious king of Suketa, who had given his 
own body to a demon. It was related by the Lord himself when dwell- 
ing in the Jeta Grove of S'rcivasti. The lord having exhibited some 
miracles, the audience greatly wondered, and enquired how he had 
acquired the power of working miracles. Thereupon he narrated many 
stories of miracles effected in his former existences, and then said : 
Brahmadatta, king of Suketa, had a son bora unto him, who had on his 
head at the time of birth a crown more refulgent than the sun, and 
drops of moisture falling from it converted a mass of iron into gold. 
On account of these miraculous events the child was named Manichuda, 
alias Ratnachuda. When Maniehiida succeeded his father, he caused 
many alms-houses to be established, and ruled the country with great 
energy and justice. He had an elepha;iit named Bhadragrivi and a horse 
named Ajuneya, each of which could travel 400 miles a day. At the 
time there lived, in a cave in the Himalaya, a sage named Bhavabhuti. 
The sage once found a beautiful damsel seated on a lotus in a tank. He 
named her Padmavati, and brought her up in his hermitage. When she 
was grown up, he made her over to Manichuda, who married her, and had 
by her a son named Padmottara. The king once celebrated the great rite 
of Nigada Mahayajna, and in course of it was asked by a fierce demon to 
give him some human blood for food. Rather than disappoint a beggar 
on such an occasion, and at the same time unwilling to shed human 
blood, he ripped open his own neck, and gave the blood flowing there- 
from. The demon next asked for some meat, and the king gave 
his own body. Greatly pleased by this extraordinary munificence, 
the demon, who was no other than Indra in that shape, assumed his own 
shape, and offered him universal sovereignty, long life, or whatever else 
he wanted. Manichuda wished to be a Buddha, so that he may be able to 
effect the salvation of mankind. The boon was granted. On the 
conclusion of the rite, the king gave away to the Brahmans by way 
of alms his precious horse and elephant, as well as his wife and son. 



163 

A neighbouring king, named Dusprasava, demanded the elephant, 
and threatened war unless his request was complied with. Eather 
than fight and bring on carnage, the king bought back the elephant, 
and gave it to Dusprasava. At this moment four Pratyeka Buddhas 
seized Manichuda, and carried him away to the top of the Himalaya, 
where they left him. The minister of Manichuda ransomed the prince, 
and placed him on the throne. The queen was ransomed, and brought 
back home, and the Dusprasava was overpowered in battle. Thereupon 
Dusprasava sent five Brahmans to buy of Manichiicla the crown which 
was on his head. The king immediately split open his head, and gave 
the jewel ; but by a miracle his head was reunited, and a new jewel of 
even greater magnificence sprung on it. " This Manichuda" said the 
Lord, " was myself in a former birth, and on account of my munificence 
I am now able to work miracles." Asked what had Manichuda done 
to attain the jewel, the Lord said, in a preceding birth Manichuda was 
the son of Aruna, a king who had erected a jewelled stdpa on the 
remains of Buddha S'ikhi, and the son had placed on it his own crown, 
and decorated it with a jewelled parasol. 

Beginning. -^ .rnr Tst^t'J fls^i»^Tfti^=^Hi: i ^f^ ^jm ifrw^%5L ^vv wJt- 

^■^^^T SfTW ^I5fT 1:1351 qi^TfeT I 

End. iftf f^ f*'^^ ir^TfraasiTr^^rfiaiiwr f^'^i^if: <?^r=fri3wrTf Wirr- 

Colophon. Tfti ^flf'JS'^^i^^i'f qf^^flT^ i 



164 



No. B 4. 

MAHA-STTAVATI. 

Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 12-6 X 3-6. Folia, 186 to 192. Lines 
on a page, 5. Extent in s'lokas, 42. Character, Newari. Date, 941, Newari. 
Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

A charm for warding ofif evils liliely to result from adverse planets, 
ferocious animals, and venomous insects. 

It is said that on one occasion when Buddha was sojourning on the 
bank of a tank near a cremation ground at Biajdgriha, his son Rahula 
appeared before him, and complained of the sufferings to which he was 
subjected by adverse planets, ferocious animals, venomous insects, and 
diseases, and prayed for relief. Thereupon the Lord imparted to him a 
charm which, when heard, or recited, or borne on the person as an amulet, 
was calculated to keep such evils a hundred thousand miles away from 
one so protected. The charm begins with the words " angd kalingd bhang& 
varangd sansdra'tarangd," &c. This work", along with four others, 
m., Maha-pratisara, Maha-sahasra-pramardini, Maha-mayuri, and Maha- 
raksha-mantranusarini, bears the common name of Paneharalishd, or 
the " five protectors." 

The first page of each of the five works has on its middle a mgnette ; 
that on the Maha-s'itavati, represents a green-coloured goddess with 
three heads and six hands, seated on two Garudas. Of the heads one 
is yellow, one red, and one of the colour of the body. 

Beginning, n^ ^ht wji^^ ^Tsgfl'^rsvlrr^fj) i ^^ w^ir ^ «Tfl ^f^'sr 'ew^ ^TJi^rT^ 
iiT^T ftK^T ^f*^^ wn^'ri f^: s(^f%i!fta?s} wmfx ircar ^^:5^i% 



165 



End. 



Colophon. ^TJg^r?rv(fff^wl srm ^'^if^'gi kt^ ^r^i^sjgT r^r^-^ gniTi i 



No. B 4. 
MAHA-EAKSHA-MANTEANUSA'RINE. 

Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 12-6 x 3'6. Folia, 169 to 1185. Lines 
on a page, 5. Extent in s'lokas, 108. Character, Newari. Date, 944, Newari. 
Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

A charm for keeping off diseases. It was imparted by the Lord 
when he was dwelling in the Bamboo grove near the town of Vais'ali. 
A'nanda, who was in his "company, was directed to go and recite it in 
the city of Vais'ali, and it brought untold blessings on that city. The 
charm begins with the words, visarata (5 times repeated) Buddha 
hkanukampaka ajnapayati, sarmhuddhdnumatina sarva-pratyeka-hud- 
dhanumatina" &o. 

The goddess represented in this codex is four-headed and ten- 
handed, and seated on two peacocks. The colour of the goddess is red, 
but her heads are successively white, red, blue and yellow. 
Beginning. \^ sf^r wai^e^ ^TJg^^wsT^HTf?:"® I 'w; ^w^^^hi: i ^ flm- 
^cra^f^T «H^ vrji^i'T KisTiz't ft^^ftr m i tw^'^ ^^=^^fsr?T? 

End. ^f^ ^^ 3^T^rt^ t^i'rt ^^Jii^^ntT w'SfliU^'T^tT'flrcr i 

Colophon. ^ijg^^TT^T^'^^P:^^ Tr« M^inx^^ ^m^M^ i 



166 



No. B. 4. 
MAHA-SAHASEA-PEAMAEDINP. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 12i x 3^. Folia, 43 to 93. Lines on a 
page, 5. Extent in s'lokas, 718. Character, Newari. Date 944, Newari. 
Prose and verse. Appearance, old. Incorrect. 

A collection of mantras and rituals for overcoming the evils which 
wicked spirits cause to mankind. 

The work opens, in common with the other four works with 
which it is associated, in the usual style of the Mahay ana Sutras, 
with the words " thus has it been heard by me," and claims to 
be a work of that class. It is said that when the Lord was 
dwelling in the grove of Prabhasavana, on the Gridhrakuta hill, 
in Eajagriha, in the company of thirteen hundred and fifty fol- 
lowers, he perceived, by his transcendental knowledge, that the town of 
Vais'ali was then under great tribulation. Earthquakes, cyclones, pro- 
longed cloudiness emersing everything into impermiable gloom, and 
the evil eye of Saturn were rendering everything desolate there. At 
this juncture all the principal gods, headed by Brahma and Indra, 
appeared before the Lord, and prayed that the knowledge of the Maha- 
sahasra-pramardini mantra may be revealed to them. Thereupon the 
Lord enquired what mantras they knew to overcome supernatural evils ? 
The great king Vais'ravana said, " when men are afflicted by Takshas, 
they laugh, run about, talk wildly, get angry, tremble, knock about, 
8fC., and for it this is my mantra." The words of the mantra are siddhe 
susiddhe sattve ave arane bale tamhhe stamhhejatile akhane sukhane kha- 
Ichane kharate kharange Tialipingale timingale timingilini mangale siddhyan- 
tu mantra padd svaha, mama saparivarasya sattvandncha svastyastu, 
vais'ravanasya maharajasya ndmnd balenais'varyddhipatyena cha svaha. 
It means " may such and such (evils, naming them) be overcome by the 
the name, might, majesty and supremacy of the great king Vais'ra- 
vana." Similarly the great king Dhritarashtra gave his mantra for 
overcoming Gandharvas, the great king Virudhaka his charm for over- 
coming Kusmanda Preta, and the great king Virupaksha his charm for 
overcoming Nagagrihas. Thereupon the Lord, with th,e voice of a lion, 
declared before the audience : " I am possessed of the ten great powers ; 
I possess the four great secrets. By me alone was Mara overcome with 
his mighty army." He then recited the great mantra, " the secret for over- 



167 



coming endless thousands of evils" : — Mahdndhasra-pramardini-sandhi. 
It runs thus: asanga-khadgavate halanirghoshe sicre suravate vajrasame 
vajrdgame vajradhare sushtfie jambhe dridhasaraviraje vighare vairagra- 
prdpte arafie aranodharmayuJcte dis'i vighushte svdhd, smstyastu mama 
sarvasattvdnancha tathdgatasya namnd balenais'varyddhipatehs'cha svdha. 

On hearing this all the wicked spirits of the earth dispersed far and 
wide ; and the lord appointed some of the leading gods guardians of the 
diflferent quarters of the universe, each of the guardians undertaking to 
keep the peace by an appropriate mantra which he recited. After this the 
Lord, out of mercy for the Liohchhavis of Vais'ali repaired to them, 
and blessed them, removing all their troubles by the great mantra 
which he had recited. 

The remainder of the work describes the different symptoms 
which manifest themselves when a person is afflicted by particular 
wicked spirits, and the rituals which should be observed when the 
great mantra is to be recited, or worn on the person ; the details 
varying under different circumstances. The Eev. S. Beal, in his Bud- 
. dhist Tripithaka, notices a Chinese work named Sheou-hu-ta-tsien-kwo- 
t'u-king or the Mahasahasra Mandala Siitra, which, 1 believe, is the 
same with the work here described. It was translated by Shi-hu 
during the Sung dynasty (Circa 960 to 1278), and is said to contain 

Dharanis. 

The mgnette in this case represents a fierce goddess with exposed 

teeth and blue colour, seated on two crouching men of a yellow colour. 

The heads are successively white, blue, red and yellow. 

Beginning. s# t^t *fi^^ ^i^gflf rereggwf^sg i \^ wur ^ff^^T%vr gn^ 
wji^i'T xi^Tzi f^f ^m m I -sz^^^^^ ^^qrw(?) ^^jri^K«:wg^'' 
si«T# ^sf^'S vrim fVi^ef^ gr^fl4^^K5if«fwf 3j;^: i 

End. ?;^fl^T'^^ «3i^i'r ^T^nnJiTi ^ f»mtT wh^ht Hrftrr^w^'^raffr 1 

Colophon. '^TJ5'>'5Tgr'?^si«^sft f w fl'sr^Tii^^" ^«ra il 



168 



No. B. 4. 

MAHA-PRATISARA-KALPA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 12^ X 3| inches. Folia, 1 to 42. Lines on a 
page, 5. Extent in s'lokas, 588. Character, Newari. Date, 944, Newari. 
Appearance, old. IncoiTeet. 

A charm for destroying sin, disease, and all difficulties. 

It was revealed by the Lord when he was dwelling under a kalpa tree 
near a tank on the crest of the Mahavajra Meru mountain. It runs thus : 
Omvipula-garhhe vipula-vimile vimala-garhhe vipula-vimala-vimala-garhhe 
vimale jaya-garbhe vajrajvala-garbhe gatigahane gagana-ns'odhane sana- 
papa-vis'O'dhane. Om gunavati gagana-viharini gagana-viliarini gaga- 
rini gagarini girini girini gubhari gardhabhari gamari gahari gaha gaha 
gargari gargari gagari gagari gabhari gabhari gabhi gabhi gahi gahi 
gamani gamani gara gara guha guha guru guru guruvichale muchale sumu- 
chale svdhd. The meaning of most of these words is unintellegible, but 
the sentences formed by them are said to he most effectual in overcoming 
evils of every kind. In illustration of their supreme power, several stories 
are recited. In one case a person, bitten by a cobra, was saved from im- 
pending death by reciting it. Brahmadatta, after bathing in the Ganges, 
put the charm on his head, and thereby overcame a powerful king with 
whom he was engaged in war. A Brahman, suffering from leprosy, put it 
on his neck and was immediately cured. On his death he was carried 
away by the messengers of Yama to the dreadful hell called Abiohi. 
On his appearance there all the instruments of torture lost their power, 
and the dwellers of hell were restored to felicity. Tama was there- 
upon obliged to remove him from this place of confinement. A ship was 
once assailed by sea-monsters, fearful storms, thunder and light- 
ning, and was on the point of being engulphed into the sea, when one of 
the passengers wrote the mantra on a piece of paper, and stuck the paper 
on the top of the mast. Thereupon all commotions subsided, and the 
ship safely reached its destination. A malefactor was sent to the 
place of execution ; he put the charm on his head, and the instruments 
of the executioners could no longer hurt him ; and he was allowed to 
go away. After these illustrations come the rituals for consecrating the 
charm for putting it on, and then the praises thereof. The name of 
this work does not occur in the Rev. S. Beal's Catalogue of the Chinese 
Tripithaka. 



169 

The vignette on the first page of this codex represents a goddess with 
four heads and eight handsj and seated on two lions. The body of the 
goddess and that of the lions are white, but the heads of the goddess are 
successively green, white, red and yellow. 

Beginning. \^ sffli HJi^^ ^T^fl'^rsiffr^Tir*) i v^ fl^T ^fr^^fgj't '^^^ wji^^ 
f^<fiHJ*ad«TT>f fl'^T^^rfiJ^I'^ H^I^^JJ'Si^R'q »(fff^ ^^Tflffl- 

End. ^^fltm^ wjrar'TifmirT ^^rar^i'^: ^ 'w w^rwr^"!?^ ^ fww^€ 

apjolrq %^t nn^tr Mrf'sifmHisi'^fVfrr i 
Colophon. •^mir^^ffi^KT w^rf^^T ttsV Trgift^fra^ f^'gm^^T^ ^^ra; i 



No. B 2. 
MADHYAMAKA-VRITTI. 

Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 16 x 4 inches. roHa, 201. Lines, 7 
on a page. Extent in slokas, 3,200. Character, Newari. Date, ? Prose 
and verse. Old. Correct. 

A commentary on a work called Vinaya Sutra. By Chandrakirti 
A'charya. The text is not forthcoming, nor has it been noticed by M. 
Burnouf, nor in the Chinise Tripithaka; but initial words and sometimes 
entire stanzas occur in the commentary. Though the name of the text is 
rinaya, or "discipline," to judge from the commentary, the work is 
throughout metaphysical, and describes the rationale or philosophy 
of mental phenomena. The commentary is divided, probably in ac- 
cordance with the text, into 27 chapters. Contents: I. On 
coo-nition of external objects. II. Perception of motion. III. The 
nature of the organs of sense. IV. Shape and colour. V. Animated 
beings VI. Attraction and the attracted. VII. Consciousness. VIII. 
Cause* of consciousness. IX. Conditions precedent of consciousness. 
X. Relation between cause and effect, or of fire and fuel. XI 
Existence, or of those who suffer birth, pain, pleasure and death XII. 
Pain, what is it? XIII. Residual impressions. XIV. Relation be- 
22 



170 

tween agents, organs and objects, as the seer, the seeing and the object 
seen j the hearer, the hearing and the object heard, &c. XV. Nature o£ 
disposition. XVI. The free and the bound. XVII. Deserts, their 
cause and effect. XVIII. Enquiry into what is self. XIX. Times past, 
present and future, their relations. XX. Subsidiary causes of fruition. 
XXI. Thought, its origin and cessation. XXII. Existence of Tathagata. 
XXIII. Origin of love, enmity and delusion in relation to good and 
evil. XXIV. A'ryasatya or afflictions. XXV. Final emancipation. 
XXVI. Five instruments of knowledge, consciousness. XXVII. Right 
and wrong consciousness. 

The author of the work is a Sunyavadi or Nihilist, who does not 
admit the material existence of anything, and the object of the work is 
to prove that nothing exists. The way in which he works out his theory 
will be illustrated by the following extract. The subject being vision, an 
antagonist is supposed to remark : (Text) " vision, audition, smell, taste, 
touch and mind are the organs, and the objects of these six are what are to be 
seen &c." (Commentary.) " Hence it follows that vision &c., are natural 
powers. But vision cannot be a power. If you say to see is vision and 
it is the eye, and colour may be described as its objeet.^^ (It is not so.) 
(Text) " The eye does not perceive the truth of its own self ; and how can 
that which cannot see its own self perceive others ?" (Commentary.) 
" Thus the eye does not see its own self, for to do so would be an impossible 
function. (If you say) Though the eye does not perceive itself, still it 
beholds others like fire, i. e., even as fire burns the substance of others and 
yet not its own, so the eye sees others though not itself ; it would not be 
consistent." (Text) " Because the example of fire is insufficient to establish 
vision." (Commentary.) " The example of fire which you have adduced 
is not ' sufficient' i. e., it is not apposite and not applicable, because" 
(Text) " the eye-possessing (is applicable to) what has been said about 
going, gone, and not-gone." (Commentary.) " That which exists with an 
eye is eye-possessing. The example of fire which you have adduced 
to establish the eye, has been condemned along with the possessor of 
the eye. How so ? By the words ' going, gone and not gone.' Thus, 
that which is gone cannot go, the not-going cannot go, nor can the 
going go, and so the fire does not burn the burnt, nor does it burn the 
unburnt, and these are parallel passages. Thus, as the gone, the not-gone 
or the going, does not go, so the seen does not see, nor the unseen see, 



171 

and the seeing, which is neither seen nor not-seen, does not see. This is 
What is said. Even as the gone does not go, so, it is said, the burnt 
dees not burn, and this is what is meant. And since the example of the 
fire is condemned by the example of going, gone and not-gone, the 
example of fire cannot be of avail to establish the position about the 
eye ; and hence the conclusion is that the eye does not see others as it 
does not see itself." 

sr qisffT v^miM ^ if^f^r njq'cr'r ii 

Jr^^^ ^w?f ^T(»Tif si xfw^ ■^Tsifsj fjR^rf^trsrr^ i ff^r^ ^mr- 

^wsn^ ^mrflj^^if^^ sr qjafcr i ^rer^f^ ^^sf i ^^f«r 

^IWTSl'S? ^'^fJT T ^liSTsf 1^ ^Ksf 'T'CH'^r sf^frr Sf ^Tiirrsf ^fir I 
^^sr^ srfg;?^ «^%Ttr'5I^: ^ Sf ^JjgTHT SfT^ ^fT^l Sf ^sg^r ^75^: I 

^i^sr 5iw#T i"rtfi.- 1 %sr 'itftRfT'? I JiRrflTsrnfTTit: i nir f^ i^ 

T<^Tfi[srT gsi ^T^ I ■?!«?[ '^ sr ir?r sriJiw sr JiRfflrsf >iRrt i i^ sr 5^ 
?jg^ »rr^^5^ ^^ ?sg% sirssF^fsr^w ^imrsf sr sagt x.mH 

^(■^ I ^# ^^^ T33^ HT^f^Rjrf^sfT ^fysar'H'r ^^ aiRfrisfwrnJiir- 
■^grnj ^h ^iw ^%Tsftr^^w'rf«f5f';f*r sr ^sqt 1 ?r«i^ f9^^»r^ 
^TW^^^ Tcrsrfq sr qajrWIffr 11 
Beginning. # sf»r: ^t^^^'^rq 1 ■^ srtx ^^^^t^ i 



172 
^'^■ng^fq ^-Rf^ ^ra^tfiT ffFtfg '^ n i? II 

^TRTWSIR srfririr!? ?I^ ?fr^T+ +Tt f^sfrf ^ft^ I 

End. %tf 'a^T'B^rst.'JlTf^'j^T ^^?l^ tifs(9=3^ ii'^T^'g^ wift?rflf«sT- 

Coloplion. ?;<?jT^i!q'^^^f^qT^n?x:f^«iT^t si^q?[i?it fl^«^¥flT ?fBq<\^T 

^T%TfjT:s(^<qsr^frH^T«i5n^Tsr^q'!iifV»iTK'< ^T^^q!^^^^iT'*iKgRi^ 



No. B 4. 
MAHi^KA'LA TANTEA. 



Substance, paper, 10" x 21." Folia, 74. Lines, 5 on a page. Extent 
in slokas, 400. Character, Newaii. Appearance, old. Date, Newari Sam vat, 
923. Prose. Incorrect. 

A treatise on mystic rites. Anonymous. Contents : Origin of the word 
Mahakala. Fire altars. Mantras for two-handed divinities. Mantras for 
killing, dementing, stupifying, and subjugating persons. Rules for the 
lustration called Vajrabhisheka. Ditto for bathing images of gods. 
Praise of the Mantra of Devi. Rules for worshipping Mahakala. Ado- 
ration of particular Devis for the attainment of special objects. Persons 
who have attained perfection in the above forms of worship. Attainment 
of transcendental powers by rites performed on corpses. Rites for win- 
ning others' affection. Ditto for causing obstruction in others' affairs. 
Ditto for causing stupefaction. Ditto for causing death. Ditto for 



173 

preventing rain. Ditto for pacifying Saturn when irate. Ditto for 
removing all disturbances. Ditto for managing kingdoms. 

There is a Hindu Tantra of this name, and the contents are closely 
similar, but it is a distinct work. 
Beginning. # ■ifw- ^'t^^«'^r^T^T^ I f^ ii^T jcT^^fgr^, ^fl^ wimr^^ ^A^x 

End. tRt 'sft^T^T^T^rPW^T^ ^'^^r^^^if^ *w'5r|5ir ^if^?rfl«jvt=^fgni I 

Colophon. •3:c^-^ fl'^T^T^W'W^I^ ^'^^^[Vrf^^ fl'^T^raJT'W'CTW ^flljj I 



No. B 4. 
MARKMAYtfUt. 



Substance, Nepalese paper, 12| X 3| inches. Folia, 74. Lines on a page, 
5. Extent in slokas, 1036. Character, Newari. Date, 944 Newari. Appearance, 
old. Incorrect. 

A collection of mantras for neutralising the efEect of snake-poison. 

When the Lord was in the Jeta grove at S^i'avastl, A'nanda reported 
that a Bhikshu had been bitten by a black serpent, and was on the point 
of dying, and thereupon the Lord revealed the mantras. They are all 
of the same character, full of repetitions, and unintelligeble words. One 
of them runs thus : — I4i vidi kidi hidi pidini mede do deinhd dde udde 
ffkade durghade hirini chatudi hurivegddl vegddi pasupisdcliini aponini 
svdha. — Another begins with the word hu repeated 36 times, then putu 9 
times, then, nagaleleke &c. The mantras are said to have been originally 
known to a king of peacocks who dwelt on the southern scarp of the 
Himalaya, and thence their name ' Mayurf or relating to a peacock. 
Peacocks are well-known to destroy small snakes, but I have never heard 
of their attacking cobras. In the Rev. Mr. Seal's Catalogue of the 
Chinese Tripithaka, this work occurs under two names, vw., Fo-mon-ta- 
kong tsio-ming-wong king, and Suk-tung-Fo-muk-to-kon-tsio-ming- 
wang-king, with the Sanskrit name ' Maha Mdyuri-vidya-radjni-dharani.' 

Beginning. ^ Twr «Jr^rg ^rajfl^wr^^r II 



174 

lEnd. x^wtr^^ «riWT5r ^ttTastt ^rg^RT?'^! ^ '^ «T^t q^f«f ^- 

Colophon. ^T^fl'^TflT^iSr^^ T:Tift g4r^?Tf«rW^ w^ikt i i 



No. B 4. 

MARICHl NA'MA DHi*^RANl. 

Substance, paper, 71 x 3 inches, rdia, 2. Lines on a page, 5. Extent 
in £okas, 50. Appearance, old. Character, Newari. Prose. Incorrect. 

A charm for self-preservation. It was imparted when the Lord was 
at the Jeta grove in S^ravasti. In the course of one of his lectures he 
said, " There is a goddess who travels before the sun and the moon j she 
is invisible, indestructiblej incomprehensible, intraetible, unblamable, 
and unassailable by weapons. Her name is Marichi (darkness-destroyer) . 
Whoever hears her name becomes possessed of her qualities, and this is 
her mantra.^' The mantra begins with the words. — " Om prahramasi, 
prakramasi, udayamasi, vairamasi," &c. The Chinese verson of this work 
bears the name of Fo-shwo-Ma-li-chi-tiea-to-lo-li-catan-king, which means 
' Buddha recites the Dharani of Marichi Devi, and extends to two pages- 
In this work we find an attempt made to render iJsha or the Dawn of 
the Hindus subservient to Buddhist worship. 

Beginning. \^ im wmTi ^Wfl'^rnTfr^r^: I ^ ^m ^fTfl^f^f'T ^M% WJtwrt^ 

End. •# ^^^ift'T^T^^'i't ^5|^S5i^^i>r(tg w't ^5»?^ wi-^r I 

Colophon. ^T^gmf'C'^m^^K^t 'swra: I 



175 



No. B 39. 
PARAMARTHANAMA-SAf^GlTI. 
Substance, Nepalese paper, 7^ X 3 inches. Folia, 72. Lines, 6 on a 
page. Extent in ^lokas, 100. Character, Newari. Appearance, fresh. 
Date, ? Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

A hymn in praise of Buddha, each letter o£ the alphabet forming 
a distinct epithet, and implying an attribute of the sage. It is said to 
have been imparted by Buddha himself at the request of certain Bodhi- 
sattvas headed by Vajradhara. This style of stringing together epithets 
to form names is common both to the Hindus and the Buddhists, and is 
not unknown to the Arabs, who have similar works. One of their works 
is named the " Handsome names of God.^^ 

Annexed to the codex there are eight other hymns; (1) to Manjusri, 
in eight stanzas j (2) to Vagisvara; (3) to Buddha as Dasabala; (4) 
to Avalokitesvara by Chandrakanta, a Bhikshuni; (5) to S'akya by 
Yasodhard ; (6) in praise of the personal beauty of Avalokitesvara ; (7) 
to Avalokitesvara, by Charapati; and (8) in praise of Sangha. 
Beginning. ■^ ^^r ^^T^ ifct i 'itr vnra hk^ I 'r^: ^^(^ I ^J'^fft ^r^j: I 
^ ^^t: gf^ Att ^^^si^fl^ 'i'^t ^ '^ ^^t: 

-J 

atsT^^'T nm^t ^^xw ^s^si II ^ II 

»Jf3'iH'Cl'5(^^^^^^'?TF<!!fH: I 

^ifT^flf ^t^^T ^^'\«<5^F<iFwi I! ^ II 
a^rqjrnf ?r^'5i^^^'«i^^! ^K' ii a ii 



176 

5(i!TRl sfm ^^ ^Ji^'fi rr^rrJi^ i 

»?f%fn^ ^5n«Ti^ ^TSRTOT?? ^ f^^r I 
End. Ji'w'ftr^Ktq^fl^r^i oUi^'^fiwi 

Colophon. ^r^qfli^rajMrfT ^re »iwr'?F^^rrr fl'?rar>icT'^rirfg<i^HTr<^3ir5i<Tz^r?i^ 



No. B 4. 

PARNAS'AVARINAMA-DHA'RANl. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 7x3 inches. Folia, 2. Lines, 5 on a page. 
Extent in slokas, 12. Character, Newari. Date, ? Appearance, old. 

Prose. Incorrect. 

A charm bearing the name of Arya Parnasavari, a demi-goddess or 
she-demon who is said to dress herself in leaves. It is full of mystic and 
cabalistic terms, and is believed, if worn on the person, to protect 
one from all evils and accidents. If begins with the words Om amrita 
amrita amrita-hhava amrita-hhava amrita-samhJiava, and ends with Om 
Pisachi parnasavari kriii hah, Mm phat pisachi svdha. 

Beginning. ^ ^tr wjiwit ^i^TWJi^^'^rfr^T^ i sitrT^^^r«j i tw ^fflfrrwr^ 
wji^rft f^m^ ^^^«:^-^ ^\■^(.^^x.lz^\^ \ ^rfsi ^rf'^f^^^T5g<T<T^'n i 

End. ^ filJof^ 'I'Jsi^fK ^x ^: w <ii^^ ft^Tlf^ ^rer i 

Colophon, ^isqq'q^x^'^ sfrfl ^T^i/t g^rar i 



177 



Nos. A 1 to A 4. 
PRAJNA-Pi^RAMITA, S'ATASAHASRIKA. 

No. A ]. (volume I.) Substance, Nepalese paper of a yellow colour, 
pasted double, 9^ x 6 inches. Folia, 467. Lines on a page, 11. Extent in 
slokas, 26,968. Character, Newari. Date, N. E. 923. Appearance, old. 
Prose. Generally correct. 

No A 2. (volume II.) Substance, Nepalese paper of a yellow colour, 
pasted double, 20i x 6 inches. Folia, 511. Lines on a page, 10—12. Extent 
in Slokas, 35,259. Character, Newari. Date, N. E. 924. Appearance, old. 
Prose. Generally correct. 

A 3. (volume III.) Substance, Nepalese paper of a yellow colour, pasted 
double, 21 X 6 inches. Folia, 499. Lines on a page, 10. Extent in slokas, 
24,800. Character, Newari. Date, N. E. 924. Appearance, old. Prose. 
Incorrect. 

No. A 3|. (a second copy of volume III.) Substance, Nepalese paper 
of a yellow colour, 14^ x 4. Folia, 623. Lines on a page, 9 to 11. 
Extent, 24,800. Character, Newari. Date, N. E. 871. Appearance, old. 
Prose. Generally correct. 

No. A 4. (volume IV.) Substance, country-made yellow paper, 21 x 6 
inches. Folia, 534. Lines on a page, 10. Extent in Slokas, 26,650. Character, 
Newari. Date, 920. Appearance, old. Prose. Incorrect. 

The generic name Prajnd-paramUd or " transcendental knowledge" 
includes five different works. The first of which is said to comprise matter 
sufficient to make up one hundred and twenty-five thousand octosyllabic 
verses. The second contains one hundred thousand similar verses ; the 
third, twenty-five thousand verses ; the fourth, ten thousand verses ; and 
the fifth, eight thousand verses. Of these, the Asiatic Society's Library 
contains the 2nd, the 3rd, and the 5th. All these are in prose, and, roughly 
speaking, the extents traditionally assigned to them are nearly correct. 
The work under notice is the second ; it is generally known under the 
name of S'atasdhasrika, or the recension of a hundred thousand verses. 
By my calculation of 13^ letters to the sloka, the actual extent is 113,677 
slokas. The specific name of the work is Raksha-bJiagavati. It comprises 
72 chapters or Parivartas, divided into four parts or khandas. It 
is preeminently a work of the Mahayana class, and its main topic 
23 



178 



is the doctrine of Sunyavdda or the evolution of the universe from 
vacuity or nihility. This topic is developed in the form of discourses 
in which Buddha himself is the chief expounder ; but some of his 
principle disciples also appear as teachers. In the course of the discus- 
sions, all topics of metaphysics which had engaged the attention of the 
Buddhists and the Hindus are expounded at length, adverse systems are 
refuted, and everything is made to accord with the doctrine of nihility. 
The system of Hinayana is especially noticed, and refuted repeatedly. 
True Buddhism is declared to be founded on the theory of nihility, and 
the attainment of the highest perfection is made to depend on the perfor- 
mance of meditations of which the object should be sunyata or nihility. 
The meditations enjoined are the same which are described in the SlMthya 
Sutra of Kapila, and in the Yoga SuLra of Patanjali, and most of the 
technical terms used are evidently borrowed from the Hindu systems. All 
the duties enjoined in the Vinaya are repeatedly advocated, and their philo- 
sophical bearing to the vacuous doctrine is expounded. With so unreal an 
ultimatum, the force and persistency with which are enjoined the duties of 
benevolence, charity, good conduct, and abstinence from evil, each called 
a pdramitd, are remarkable. 

The work opens with the description of a scene on the Gridhrakuta 
hill, near Rajagriha, where the Lord performed a Samadhi, whereupon 
flames issued forth from his body, and illumined the ten quarters of the 
globe. He then opened wide his mouth, wherein were seen thousands of 
thousand-petalled golden lotuses, amidst which his image was seen seated. 
The light from his body relieved mankind from all pains and troubles. 
The dwellers in hell were ransomed ; the deaf regained their power of 
hearing ; the blind were restored to sight. Gods and aerial spirits all 
came to the place to worship the sage. Thereupon a Bodhisattva, named 
Samantarasmi, asked the cause of this light. This led to the sao-e's 
imparting to his audience the Prajna-paramiia. The different pdramitds 
were then successively expounded ; these include the hundred and eight 
pdramiids noticed in chapter IV of the Lalita-Vistara and a great 
many others ; the advantages of following these pdramitds are also detailed. 
The subject of vacuity or nothingness, sunyatd, is next expounded. Then 
tollow instructions on five kinds of instruction {s'ihshd}, eight kinds of 
disposition of the body [angaramaUva), four kinds of meditation («?,4_yaMa), 
four kinds of proofs (pramdna) , four kinds of bodilessness {arupya- 
samfipaiti), five kinds of consciousness {abhijni), six kinds of memory 



179 



(anusmriti), which result from a knowledge of the true import of vacuity. 
Varieties of vacuity. Contrarities. Exercise of six of the paramitas. 
Purification of the senses. 

Chapter II. The second chapter is devoted to the exposition of 
the true character of the soul (atmd), and its relation to form, colour and 
other qualities, and to vacuity (sunyata). 

Chapter III. Chapter third treats of the necessity of Bodhisattvas 
abstaining from passion, envy and other mental perturbations, and the 
relation of those perturbations to calm contemplation of the truth, and to 
vacuity. 

Chapter IV. Relation of form to reality, and the propriety of 
ascertaining its bearing to vacuity. 

Chapter V. The ascertainment of the notion of greatness, agitation, 
pain, pleasure, dispassion &c. through knowledge. Various forms of 
Samadhi calculated to afford that knowledge. 

Chapter VI. All qualities are illusive {mayamayd). How they are 
to be overcome. Yoga is pointed out as the means for it. The influence 
of Marasatan in frustrating the fruits of Yoga, how to be controlled ? 

Chapter VII. Bodhisattva defined, his supernatural powers how 
derived ? Humanity and its characteristics, how they are to be overcome 
by a Bodhisattva ? Purport of various epithets used to indicate a Bodhi- 
sattva. How a Bodhisattva merges all natural attributes into vacuity ? 
The six paramitas. 

Chapter VIII. Characteristics of various kinds of Samadhi, such as 
Surangama, Ratnamudra, Sinhavikridita, Suchandra, Chandradhvaja, 
Sarva-dharmasangata, Vilokitamurdha, Dharmadhatu-niyata, Niyata- 
dhvajaketu, Savvadharma-praves'a-mudra, Samadhiraja-supratishthita, 
Rasmipramukta, Chalavyuha-samudgata, &c. 

Chapter IX. Definitions and expositions of the Bodhisattva attri- 
butes noticed in chapter I, m%., 4 Samyak-prahanas ; 4 Riddhipadas ; 5 
Indriyas; 5 Balas ; 7 Sambaudhyaiigas ; 8 Aiigamargas; 3 Samadhis; 
11 Jnanas, or perceptions ; 3 Indriyas; 10 Anusmritis; 4Dhyanas; 3 
Pramanas; 4 Arupya-samapatti ; 10 Tathagata-bala ; 4 Vaisaradyaj 
i Pritisammrit ; 18 Avesika-bandha-dharma. Nature of Dharanis, 
relation of letters of the alphabet to them. 

Chapter X. Duties of the 1st stage—Ten Parikarmas. Ditto of 
the 2nd stage— 8 Dharma-abhikshras. Ditto of the 3rd stage. Elaboration 
of the duties of these stages. 



180 



Chapter XI. The doctrine of Mahayana and its advantages derived, 
principally if not entirely, from its recognition of the greatness of Sunya- 
vada. 

Chapter XII. The Prajna-paramita includes descriptions of all 
qualities, and their nature and effects. The subject only begins and is 
carried over to the next volume. 

Volume II. 

Chapter XII (continued) . On vacuity in relation to matter. The 
ether {okas' a), the best illustration of vacuity. Vacuity not subject to 
destruction. 

Chapter XIII. All qualities are unreal as a dream, an illusion, or a 
mirage. Knowing this, Bodhisattva never fears anything. Qualities do 
not affect him. To him there is nothing eternal, nothing transient, 
nothing painful, nothing pleasant. Transcendental powers derivable from 
the PrajnS-paramita. Paramitas of two kinds, worldly and transcendental. 
Their descriptions. 

Chapters XIV — XVI. The principles of Prajna-paramita as im- 
parted by the Lord to Indra. The end sought is the attainment of vacuity. 

Chapters XVII — XX. A summary method of attaining the end by 
practising the six paramitas, and by worshipping the relics of Buddha 
in chaityas. 

Chapters XXI — XXV. Instructions of Subhuti to Ananda, showing 
how all the paramitas are included in the Prajna-paramita, and how the 
attainment of the latter accomplishes the attainment of everything. 

Volume III. 

Chapter XXVI. Bhagavan's instruction to the son of Saradvati, 
to the purport that Bhagavan is the thorough master of the Prajna- 
pdramita, and that those who, knowing the nature of duty, do not accept 
the paramitas, and revile Bhagavan are doomed to endless pain and 
suffering in hell, and are subjected to other punishments. 

Chapter XXVII. On purification and purified knowledge. 

Chapter XXVII. The mode of acquiring the Prajna-paramitS, and 
the advantages thereof. The fruits of reciting it on particular days in 
the presence of (an image of ?) Bhagavan. 



181 



Chapter XXIX. On the vacuity of all qualities explained in detail. 

Chapter XXX. On the attainment of Yoga by a Bodhisattva. 

Chapter XXXI. On the Sutranta doctrine, its utter worthlessness 
compared to the vacuous doctrine. No Bodhisattva should accept it. 

Chapter XXXII. Defects of the Sutranta doctrine ; the influence 
of Mara, how to overcome the same. 

Chapter XXXIII. The whole of the Prajna-paramita was disclosed 
by the Lord himself, for the good of creation. No Deva, nor spirit, nor 
human being can teach it. True knowledge can be acquired solely 
through the Prajna-paramita. 

Chapter XXXIV. The falsity of all doctrines not founded on the 
Prajna-paramita and their unfitness for the ultimate end of man. They 
should not therefore he accepted. 

Chapter XXXV. All objects attainable by the study of the doctrine 
of Nihilism. 

Chapter XXXVI. Training fit for the attainment of the doctrine 
of Nihilism. 

Chapter XXXVII. Training for the purpose. Suppression of all 
worldly desires. Ascent from the first or S'ravaka stage to that of 
Pratyeka-buddha stage. Longings and ideas. Power of assuming any 
form at will. 

Volume IV. 

Chapter XXXVIII. Omniformity of shape. Pain and other acci- 
dents. They should all be associated with vacuity. The relation of shape, 
pain &c. to vacuity is efferent not afferent. Derivation of Tathagata 
implying this efferent action. Tathagata knows the ultimate vacuity of 
all things. Nihilism should therefore be studied through the Prajna- 
paramita. 

Chapter XXXIX. Purification of the body, mind, speech ; avoidance 

of false notions. 

Chapter XL. All qualities mutable. The Lord alone immutable. 

Chapter XLI. Praise of the Prajna-paramita. 

Chapter XLII. Purification of Buddhism by the suppression of 
sensuous wants and feelings. 

Chapter XLIII. Visit of the River Ganges to the Lord. Mira- 
cles worked at the time. 



182 



Chapter XLIV. Attainment of the doctrine o£ Nihilism through 
Prajna-paramita. 

Chapter XLV. All qualities compared to dreams. 

Chapter XLVI. Doubts and disbelief characterstise sinful men. 

Chapter XLVII. The necessity of studying the Prajna-paramita for 
the suppression of all qualities, thoughts and ideas through dispassion. 

Chapter XLVIII. The way of making the mind immense in 
meditation. 

Chapter XLIX. All qualities being vain, the necessity of the re- 
ligion of Buddha established. 

Chapter L. Through the Prajna-paramita all qualities cease to be 
perceptible. 

Chapter LI. Through it Mdra becomes speared through, and 
friendliness for creation is promoted. 

Chapter LII. The mode and advantage of practising the sis 
paramitds. 

Chapter LIII. The practice of S'lla-paramita (good conduct) . 

Chapter LIV. Vacuity in relation to qualities explained. 

Chapter LV. Vacuity defined. 

Chapter LVI. Preliminary study of the elementary principles of 
good. 

Chapter LVII. The necessity of constant attention to S'lla- 
pdramita. 

Chapter LVIII Kshanti-paramita explained. 

Chapter LIX. Dhydna-paramita, contemplation and its modi- 
fications. 

Chapter LX. Vacuous nature of all qualities. 

Chapter LXI. Detailed account of the six Paramitas. 

Chapter LXII. Destruction of illusion though the Prajna-paramita. 

Chapter LXIII. The practice of the six Paramitas, and the ad- 
vantages thereby derived by Bodhisattva. 

Chapter LXIV. Samadhi and its varieties, how produced. 

Chapter LXV. Falsehood, incoherence, wickedness explained. 

Chapter LXVI. Fruits of knowledge, friendliness, benevolence and 
other good qualities. 

Chapter LXVII. Essential unreality of all qualities. 

Chapter LXVIII. The six Paramitas whereby Bodhisattvas rescue 
creation from pain and suffering. 



183 



Chapter LXIX. How Bodhisattvas attain the position of Tatha- 
gatas. 

Chapter LXX. How and why Bodhisattvas act in accordance with 
the belief of the unreal being real. 

Chapter LXXI. Unreality of qualities again explained. 

Chapter LXXII. All qualities being unreal or vacuouSj the con- 
clusion follows that the world is essentially unreal. 

The Dasas£hasrika is .included in the Japanese Tripithaka, and occurs 
under the nome of " Mo-no-pan-jo-po-lo-mi-king." It was translated into 
the Chinese by Chu-Fo-nien and others^ of the Tsin dynasty, {Circa, 
265-313) . The Tripithaka includes two other works, both very short, one 
entitled " Po-moo-par-tih-tsong-pan-jo-po-lo-mi-king" or " the Prajna- 
paramitd sutra of the mother of Buddha," and the other " Fo-show-ti- 
shi-pau-jo-po-lo-mi-to-sin king," or " Buddha recites the sutra called the 
heart of the Prajna-paramita of S'akraraja." Of these I have met with 
no Sanskrit exemplar. 

At the end of the first khanda there are some verses which give 
the names of the copyists and the dates when the four volumes were 
completed. According to these verses, the first volume was completed 
at the monastery of Chakravihara, in the town of Lalitdpuri, in Nepal, 
by Dhanadatta Vajrivira, on Thursday, the 10th of the waxing moon 
during the ascendancy of Ristaka constellation in the month of Ashadha, 
in the year 923. The second volume was completed on Friday, the 11th 
of the waxing moon, in the month of Chaitra, of the Nepalese year 924, 
by Viradatta Vajraeharya. The third volume was completed on the day 
dedicated to the worship of Lakshmi in the year 924, by Sinhadatta 
Vajradhrik. The fourth volume was completed on Friday, the 9th of the 
moon, in the month of Agrahayana, in the year 920, by Vidyadatta Vajri. 
The Panchavimsati Sahasri was completed on Thursday, the 4't\x of the 
waxing moon in the month of Phalguna of the year 926, by Dhanadatta 
and Viradatta. The dates being Nepalese must correspond with A. D. 
1803 1804, 1804 and 1801. The dates are repeated at the end of each 
volume. 

There is in the Asiatic Society's Library a Nepalese version of 
this work in four volumes, but I have not been able to read it. It is 
numbered A 5 to A 8. 



184 



Beginning of volume I. ■^ -iv. '■!\^^^^^^'^JV ^r^^si(§*^t«li I 
VJ ^4^rr^T iT^FSlTJUJ w^f'i'?! ^T^^rsr 

anwt^^ sr '^Trq'a ^^wi ^t«:fq i 

^l^ I fsrcr^ii^T: ^5^«=3,5Frr fsi^^'H^ tr^s ^'H^f^r, f^^T+nm 

sii^wii^ frsi[jrrrT«i ^^^t ^ri^ ^^^^ra i "^wiv ■sto+ +^ffr i 
f# i?^r ^iH^^fgi^ ^n^ wn^r^ xmn'^ f^'?<;f?r ^ i jz^s z^"4w 

End. -5?^ trf^ig'^T ^•g v^\^j ^^i^tkt^t ^^ h^ g4w»r^'?rqflt«iWrt 

Colophon. ^JJgJlrrgTf ^K WJr^RJT: Sf'^nH^ffffTT^T: a«HHI|<!i gfltaf»ff<T I 

n ^'flT "tgaw?! '?g€'^t ffaiJitr u^^^ i 



185 



^^ ft.t ^^'V ^tt; ^*T^?gf fl'^rffTTqt ii 
^^r^n^^^^^Tif^fjafi TOrrTWJiTcr i 

^■gft^oTTf^ ^ t^rfgTwgf^ II 

rr^T mf^?TJi ar^^rgt i^wf^JlTf^^ rrrr g^giij'^^ ii 

Beginning of volume II. sfw 'es^^'s^rrst^TiHi; i 5rsi^vr39"ff^T ^^r^r 
mT^:?fft'T^ tro4r*fitT #Tf«i^=^T tmfff i sfsi^T'«irgT5;'Ji»r5iT i^TSritr 
iTr^^% %^% I sftiW^^rgf^f^'SitT^T ^4rfi^T tlf^^^^i trefrr i 

^RscTftr ttfv^^T ^T'lfir I sF«}i3'^vrg5s;^fr^T ^TK-ifi^r SirV^'^r 
%qf»r I sr«j^'^i:(Tg'W^^fi^T ^q^Tfi^r trf^^'^T ^Tnfir i sftiWt- 

End. ^T«^^^(?) Wfl^TimW^T SI'^rqiTPHfT ^^T ^I?^T>I»?rIT 7S5IT I Sli^^- 

^ifV^^t ^W^Rfl«T5)T gWrtfTKf«fIT gW^TJIWrlT llZm I flljf^K- 

24 



186 



^^^rifq wii^q^S<ir »?'^iqKf«t^ trf«ig=^T5rt w^re^^Tft '^i^'i 
Colophon, viffgi^^jr: ^'aiTrxii^rn^T: "^^f^stfwrrw: ^iPc^'S! t f^?i^«i^>a: 
Beginning of volume III. ■S' sr: ?ftw>i^% ^K^^3»?si5ira I ^^Ti'^WT 

End. t*t^r ffaifTT ^?r^ ^t^l^I":! IT ^I tflRiJ^^m rrfJrTT ^T ^ 

Colophon. ^irr^T'^^Ji: srgmr^fHJJTSlT: Tfc^fl: ^af^^'^m: I ^flTTi^R Sfft^^'!?: 
§ ■^'Hi f gg«^ %^^f rrsiTitr "U^^^ I 

Beginning of volume IV. a'gmr^fiTww grat a'Sr^^i'^'sit i 
si'STsnirTfr^'^tffl «it g^T g'?!Trnj)'^ ii 

HWsiTHT'ififs&T'n 5rnTr« ^'innsi^ II 

^r ^^"Sif^T sr^jfiiTsj^ WTsraftw: ii^^tt 

■J 

End. T ^flitr sr ^t^wi^: f 5|fr 1?^ ^^n^j!!!??! vf^qfn i ^t if^siTsfHiif^ii 



187 



Colophon. -JifrgT^^jT: st^grTTitf^fTTsn ^roVBflTfsr^Ji: ^TgnfffrTH; vf<;^fl: I 

^^fltl"^^ WJI^TTTBTflirr^ ^Slf^JTHi: fifl?ffrrrr! tTfs^g=3I^ -^ H'?!- 

^r^^Ti ^^^flT'jmiKJi^^i^i flJi^'flT vifeiffirerii'^fgfrr i ^wift 

I'a^^^tif^^'ersi^sif^^rjg^r^^rsr ^fft?rT5riJifT^??i<jqgT'rt 'RVfiT 
oiiffti^T- vB^^if^ v^if^r ^^flsfifw'^^'flfirvT^r '^%r'stTw^^r ^'sSr- 

^I^T^f?^f^t^: 5wi% (fe) m tfwv vj ^'^Wt 
^«TT (sir) BT ^JitinjiWT^sisrsft ■ i 

w^H fflft^r f^wT^T ^wft^r f^^g^'mf'CiTT 

fft ^m ?f%< sisnsp'f ^^-qiisa ^^^ (?) ^^ 
^T fJrcqr ^JifTiw^^ ?s*iT t^ st^'^TjrwT (?) n 
^rm^Twi f^w<5^r ft^f^i tr^jfa^iTit fw^ (?) 



188 



PRAJN/iPARAMITA, ASHTASAHASRIKA'. 
No. A, 15. 

Substance, Palm-leaf, 23 X 2| inches. Folia, 182. Lines on a page, 6. 
Extent in slokas, 8,190. Character, Nepalese. Date, Nepalese Era, 191. 
= A. D. 1231. Appearance old. Prose. Correct. 

Very old, very carefully and well written, and profusely illustrated. The 
boards were richly painted, but the paint on the outer side has blistered, 
cracked, and have been smeared over with dabs of sandal paste, the work having 
been worshipped for generations past. On the inside, each board shows four 
figures of Buddha in a seated position, in the attitude of lecturing, with a 
devotee, on each side. The first leaf has a vignette showing a Buddhist figure, 
as above, surrounded by a group of seven disciples. This vignette, slightly 
differing in detail, is repeated on the second leaf. On the 12th leaf, at the end 
of chapter 1st, there is a vignette showing a flesh-coloured female squatting on a 
white carpet, and expounding something to a group of four disciples, two of 
white and two of yellow complexion. On the 18th leaf, at the end of chapter 
2nd, there is a red coloured female standing amidst lotuses, and four devotees 
white, yellow, green and red, kneeling before her. On the 34th leaf there is a 
flesh-coloured standing female, dressed in the Bengali style in a red sari, and 
has on the left a yellow boat with a bull's head for a prow, and in it a white 
female holding an oar and a jar for load, and below the boat a blue female seated 
amidst lotuses. On the right there is a temple having in it a white male figure. 
Above the temple there are two fishes revolving about each other. On the 37th 
leaf there are figures of Buddha with two devotees with a red screen and two 
chowries hanging behind. On leaf 49th is depicted Padmapani, with 4 devotees 
of 4 different colours. On leaf 62nd, there are a yellow female standing in a 
plantain grove, and celestial beings flying in the air. Some of the vignettes 
show monsters of different kinds. One is a white coloured ten-handed female, 
having over her head a second head of a blue colour. Others have four or six 
arms. Some are attended by hideous monsters. In one, Buddha is attended by 
two white elephants, each having eight heads. On the last page, there is a white 
female with six hands, dressed in a tiger skin, and having a two-handed female 
child on her lap. In two separate vignettes on this page there are two chaityas. 
This is the shortest abridgment of the work noticed under the 
last preceding' number. Its specific name is Ashtasahasrikd, or "the 
work of 8,C00 verses." As the handiest of the five redactions, it is held 



189 



in the highest appreciation, and is included in the nine canonical 
works, or " Dharmas," of the Nepalese Buddhists. It is divided into 32 
chapters or Parivarf,as. The salutation at its beginning is somewhat 
peculiar. Instead of the usual formula of salutation to the three Ratnas, 
or to Buddha, or to Bodhisattvas, adoration is paid to the subject of 
the work, i. e., the work itself, the renowned Prajnd-pdramitd, as "the 
source of knowledge of Tathagatas.^^ The name being in the feminine 
gender, the work is addressed throughout as a female. The scene is laid 
on the Vulture Peak, [Gridhrahuta), near Rajagriha. When Bhagavan 
S'akya was once sojourning there in the company of a large number of 
disciples and followers, Sariputra opened a discourse by asking Subhiiti 
information on the principles of the Prajna-pdramita, and the replies 
and discussions which followed form the subject of the work. 

Contents. I. On the knowledge of all forms or archetypes. 

II. The conversion of S akra, the lord of the Devas, by the Bodhi- 
sattva through instruction in the Prajna-pdramitd. 

Ill — IV. On the merits of the Prajna-paramita, as the means of 
salvation, and how the same should be appreciated, 

V. The advantages of reciting, bearing, writing, wearing on one's 
person, or giving away the work to fit persons. 

VI. On the modifications of impetus, or the advantages of virtu- 
ous actions as means of Bodhi knowledge, or the modifications of those 
actions ultimately resulting in knowledge. 

VII. On retributions for worldly actions, and salvation therefrom 
through the Prajna-paramita. 

VIII. On the gradation of modifications, or progressive changes 
for the better, leading ultimately to perfection. 

IX — X. Praise of Prajnd-pdraniitd, and the advantages of hearing 
it, &c., as in chapter IV, but more detailed. 

XI. The works of Mara which obstruct the light of the Prajna- 
paramita in Bodhisattvas. 

XII. Creation, welfare of created beings due to Prajna-paramita. 

XIII. On the inconceivable, showing that all qualities are in- 
conceivable. 

XIV. Those who have faith in Sambodhi can acquire the Prajna- 
paramita, proved by examples. 

XV. Instructions in the Prajna-paramita, by proficient teachers. 



190 



XVI. On the origia and purport of the phrase anuttaroM-samyah 
samhodhimahhisambuti-dhi/astatJiagata. 

XVII. On the immutability of the form of the Bodhisattva. 

XVIII. Nihilism [sunyata) defined. 

XIX. In the field of Buddhism there are no roads infested by 
villains, or thieves, or drink, or disease, or famine. 

XX. On the accessibility of the Prajna-paramita by an easy 
means. 

XXI. On the mischievous works of Mara, obstructing progress of 
Bodhi knowledge and corrupting devout persons. 

XXII. For the attainment of Samyak-sambodhi, virtuous actions 
are indispensable, and they are best attained through the Prajna-para- 
mita. 

XXIII. On the merit of hearing &c. the Prajna-paramita, and the 
invincibility thereby acquired against enemies, &c. 

XXIV. On vanity or vain-gloriousness. 

XXV. On instruction in Bodhi knowledge. 

XXVI. The lord instructs Subhuti how the illusive unsteady mind 
can acquire Bodhi knowledge. 

XXVII. Description of Mara and of his attempts to corrupt earnest 
enquirers. 

XXVIII. On the merit of strewing flowers on Chaityas, &c. 

XXIX. On following the doctrine of the Prajna-paramita. 

XXX — XXXI. Questions and answers on following the Bodhi- 
sattva and his instructions. 

XXXII. On the merits of instruction in the Prajna-paramita. 
Wherever it is learnt and encouraged, there the Bodhisattva imparts 
religious instruction. 

Beginning. ftr4^ siw^w a'aTqitfttsftt i 

ST — W^:^^ 1^31=5^ (?) II 



191 

^t^r^Tf'a liT'^Tijrj^Tg^ ^f^^<5t ii 

t^rfif f■^■(^■^ f^fe siTOt w^-^+^ II 
^^^traPr ^^'CT'nt giTr«rftr^rn(Jr5ft i 

?Tft^T(?) sr^rfq^'t "^ WfTT ^Pnfg ^(5^T II 

tif T^Hf% ^i^Tr<iT g^g^fqwwft- II 

«?f 's^r^ si^^ ^ifsfi tT^Tf ^T^T^ ^TK^rf II 
«?«^ '^t^^tWI ^rwiT»wt>i^^«TT (?) I 

^T^TB^STift '^Tfg ft^^rt ^Ht^WIT (?) II 

7f ax-j^ ^rsiflsqw tTJif ^ wf^sjer: ii 
^T^^fq '^:^^'si f^3;ff[WfTi^Hit II 

gj-^^I^ TK^?iJ ^fW^IST SJiTjIf'CWt 11 



192 



v3 J ^ 

End. r^jTtT'war *tii^Tiriww'i#T ^^^si^i^gr trf^^'^ ^rfT^T?! ^^^i^ 

^ ^ ij 

Colophon. ^«lTS^'ff«^^t si'gmTcfflrrmt iK^^^Trqf^^^'T ITW ^F^s^Tin: ii 



193 



No. A, 10. 
PRAJN.^-PA'RAM1TA', PANCHAVINS'ATI-SA'HASRIKA'. 

Substance, country-made yellow paper, 18 x 6 inches. Folia, 409. 
Lines on a page, 12. Extent in slokas, 20,045. Character, Newari. Date, 
N. S. 926. Appearance, old. Prose. Incorrect. 

A digest of the large work on metaphysics described under the 
Nos. A I to A 4. Like it^ it is in prose. Its extent is usually reckoned 
at 25j000 slokas, but the codex under examination does not come up 
to that extent. Roughly calculated it is limited to 20,045 s'lokas, and 
this would suggest the idea that it is defective ; but from its beginning 
and colophon it would seem that it is complete. It is divided into 
eight chapterSj each called & parivarta, as in the larger work. Though 
professedly a digest^ the arrangement o£ the work is not founded on the 
plan of the S atasahasrika, and the treatment of the subjects is generally 
different. In fact the work is an independent one on the subject of 
Nihilism bearing on the attributes of Buddha. 

The first chapter is devoted to sarvdJcarajnata,, or the knowledge of all 
forms and qualities by the Bodhisattva through the medium of the Prajnd- 
paramitd. The second is entitled mdrgajnatd, or the knowledge of all 
modes of salvation ; it is based on various purifications of the intellect, 
mind, body, &c. The third is sarvajnatd, or " omniscience," which is 
attainable by thoroughly understanding the nature of Nihilism in relation 
to charity, good conduct, and the other four paramitas. The fourth is 
sarvdk'trdljJiisambodha, ov cognizance of all forms whereby the Bodhi- 
sattva acquires a right understanding of the various phases of the mind 
under different circumstances. The fifth is murdliapmptana-purvabodha, 
or the way in which tlie Bodhisattva stores every form of understanding and 
all knowledge in his head, so that he can know all and everything 
superhuman even in his dream without any actual perception. The 
sixth is ekahshiidvisambodha, or knowledge of all times present, past and 
future. In treating of it the succession of the six pdramitds, including 
charity, good conduct, mercy, vigour, meditation, and true knowledge, 
have been described at length. The 7th is dharmakdija, or qualities as 
affectino- the conduct of the Bodhisattva. The 8th is Traofc^/^a, or lessons 
on the means of attaining Nirvana. 
25 



194 

The codex was copied as stated elsewhere, p. 183 in the Nepalese year 
= A. D. 1806. 

Beginning, ^t ^'grr^T ^^r^vsiTf vri-JRiftw: iit^^t't 

^^T^1^TT«^"^TifT ^iaisTTq^: (?) I 

End. T^tT=^^3i^rsr n sa'^i^t ^^^si^iar wTf6jfl=#T fl'?Tg=a ^I'^^i^ 

Colophon. ^TJzfif^f^siffr^T^f^^rat wJigRjf g'sTixTt^fwrfT'-Tfrfw^Tr^T^lfr^TT- 

f^i??); I V Wt 'tg'SlH^T 'tg^^t rl'SJUI^T IJ^^rr I 

^trw %fsf^m ^++^'^ n'^i'Jiflm; 11 



No. A 17. 
PRA JN A-PARAMITA-TrK A. 

JT^TqT^fTIrrT-zT:^T I 



Substance, Nepalese paper, 10 x 4 inches. Folia, 230. Lines on a page, 
9. Extent in slokas, 9,200. Character, Newari. Date, ? Appearance, 
fresh. Prose. Incorrect. 



195 

A commentary on the Ashtasdhasrika recension of the PrajnS- 
paramita noticed under No. A 15. By Maitreya. 
Beginning. ??t ^s^rf^JT sT^?qT»l^ wi^F^^: =^1^^^ 

^^T^T^fsR^ ^^pfr ^^T fV^ ^^r ^Tff 
?r^ '5rig^tif«['3'BrJrfTBtr ^^^ ^t^ tw: ii 

Ti^^ ^^RWT wJi^m ^g ^^ ^^m 
» 

Colophon. ^fM'j'*Rir^i=r':i#T^T«ji 5i'3:tirx:fHrrr5ir<^rqi 'K^'^sruTfT^^T srm 



No. B 53. 
PINDAPA'TRA'VADANA. 

Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 13 X 4 inches. Folia, 5, first seven 
leaves wanting. Extent, 100 slokas. Character, Newari. Date, ? New. 

Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

An Avadana in praise of privin^ alms-bowls to Buddhist mendi- 
cants. The story runs that Sarvananda, king of the great city of 
Dipavati, once visited the great Vihara of Prasannas'ila, and thence 
brought the Buddha Dipailkara to his metropolis, and presented him 
an afms-bowl full of rice, and thereupon the Buddha expatiated on the 
merits of giving alms. The first seven folia of the work being mis- 
sino- the history of the work cannot be ascertained. 
Beginning. ( ^^^ ^-^^^ ^ ^f'f ) ^^- 'H: I sfWT ^'hl=Ti?J II 

End. '^^ ^^ ^1^' ^^'^Psisrr «3i5'fi»ri^tT'«r^ i 

^^a g^f^ 511 ft (?) ^^Y^Tsfgi ^I'JTTt II 
Colophon. Tfft^'^^^T^^T'f ^^^ " 



196 

No. A, 1-Z. 
PTJJA'PADDHATI. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 13 x 5i inches. Folia, 584. Lines on a 
page, 9. Extent, in slokas, 5,800. Character, Newari. Date, ? Prose. 
Incorrect, and incomplete — wanting both at the beginning and at the end. 

This is a collection of manuals for the performance of Puja to 
different divinities. The first folium and several folia at the end being 
lost, neither the name of the author, nor the history of the work, can 
be ascertained from the codex. 

In the portion which has come under my examination I find rituals 
for the worship of the following divinities, viz., (1), Kubjikaguhyes'vari, 
(the secret hunchbacked goddess); (2), Harabhairava; (3), Hara- 
siddhidevi ; (4), Chandes'vari ; (5), Naradurga, (offering her oleander 
flowers — haravirajapa) ; (6), presiding divinity of houses (on occupying 
a new house) ; (7), the discus of Pas 'chimes 'vara ; (8), Nasika, the 
presiding divinity of the nostrils ; (9), Ganes'a; (10), Brahmani ; (11), 
Mahes'vari; (12, Kaumari ; (13), Vaishnavi ; (14), Varahij (15) 
Indrani; (16), Chamunda ; (17), Mahalakshmi, (Nos. 10 to 17 re- 
present the Ashtamatrikas of the Tantras (see my ' Antiquities of Orissa,' 
II p. 140); (18), Kulachakres'vari ; (19), Revanta Mahabhairava ; (20), 
Mahalakshmi; (21), Jayavatsala ; {I'l), Piirnavati Brahm^ni; (23), 
S'ikasachchhanda Mahabhairava; (24), Kaumari and Chamunda to- 
gether; (25), Nrityes'vara Mahabhairava; (26), Bhimasena Maha- 
bhairava; (27), Ugrachanda; (28), Martyesvari; (29), Jhaiikes'vari ; 
(30), minor divinities. The divinities noticed are all more or less known 
in the Hindu Tantras, and the work is more of a Tantric ritualistic cha- 
racter than that of a Buddhist manual. 

The codex being defective both at the beginning and at the end 
the initial and the concluding words are not given here. 



197 



No. B, 51. 
PRAYOGA-MUKHA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 10 x SJ inches. Folia, 28. Lines on a 
page, 11. Extent in slokas, 740. Character, Newari. Date, N. 903. 
Appearance, old. Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

A book of exercises in Sanskrit grammar. It is divided into five 
sections or jsa^a^ffl*, and treats successively of the eases, (karaha) com- 
pound words {samdsa), derivative words [taddhita) conjugations, {tip) 
and participal and verbal affixes {Icrityd). 

Beginning. ^ »m; ^s|=gf?} I 

End. ^T-cqsqzf : WfiTgi?^^: crf^rnTS^: fH^^fiqS^: a?ijq3^ Tf«T R^TTa«ir 

Colophon. s;fcr siSiJrn'3 gflTTJ I 



No. B, 11. 
RATNAMA'LA' AVADA'NA. 



Substance, Nepalese paper, \%\ X 3i inches. Folia, 110. Lines on a 
page, 7. Extent in slokas, 2,600. Character, Newari. Date, ? Ap- 

pearance, old. Verse. Incorrect. 

A collection of stories regarding persons who in former times became 
Buddhas. The stories are said to have been related by a saint named 
Upagupta to the emperor Asoka. As'oka, surrounded by a large assem- 
bly of pious citizens of Pataliputra, was eagerly awaiting to hear some 
religious discourse when Upugupta presented himself before him, and 



198 

narrated the following stories to satisfy his intense thirst for religious 
knowledge. 

1. 8tory of Kausigha — Kausighavwyyasahandvadana. Once on a 
time Lord Buddha was delivering a lecture on religion to a crowded 
congregation in the garden of Anathapindada at S'ravasti. Gods, demons, 
and men, eager to receive his instructions, assembled round him in great 
numbers. 

He discoursed on the religion which showers its blessings in all its 
stages, — at the beginning, in the middle, and at the end. All came except 
Putraka, — a man of consequence (Mahajana), proud of his wealth, — 
who was a disciple of a Tirthika, named Piirana. By worshipping 
Brahmanic gods, Putraka had obtained a son named Nanda, who at 
the age of six fell ill of anaemia, which prostrated him so much 
that he could not rise from his bed. Though in such a pitiable state of 
health, he mastered all the sciences of his day, and became devoutly religi- 
ous. Putraka, anxious to relieve the sufferings of his son, implored 
his preceptor for help. Purana assured him that Nanda would miraculously 
recover his strength and rise up when six sages, Purana included, would 
make their appearance before him. But his assurance proved false. 
Instead of rising up at their appearance, Nanda could not make up his 
mind to see them. The wise men were put out of countenance. The 
omniscient Lord, observing their confusion and the helplessness of the 
dejected family, desired to bless it with his presence. Golden rays 
issuing from his glorious person proceeded to Nanda, as the harbinger 
of the Lord, raised up his drooping spirit, and dispersed the gloom of his 
mind. At the most blessed appearance of the Lord, Nanda recovered 
his strength, got up from his bed, fell at the feet of the Lord, and 
welcomed him. The Lord gave him a sandal-wood stick and told him 
that whenever he would strike that stick he would get a profusion 
of wealth. He went once for commerce in a foreign country, gained much, 
wealth, and, returning home, invited the Lord to a sumptuous repast. 
The Lord accepted the invitation, and, after the repast, smiled, whereupon 
A'nanda asked the Lord ; " why do you smile ?" 

The Lord replied, Nanda is sure to become a great Sugata, Kaus'igha 

by name. 

2. Story of Chandana — Sndtavadana. When the lord was residing 

in the Jetavana grove, five hundred merchants, on their way back from 

the island of Batnakara, lost their way in a desert. Wandering in the 

immeasurable waste of sand, scorched by the burning rays of the meridian 



199 

sun, they were in great need of water, to allay their intense thirst. They 
prayed S'iva, Varuna and the whole host of Brahmanic gods, but in vain. 
But no sooner they prayed to Buddha than he (Buddha) desired in his 
mind " let Indra send them a shower," and Indra, without the least 
delay, sent them a refreshing shower, which relieved them from their 
sufferings. All of them became great Bodhisattvas afterwards. The 
Bhikshus asked the Lord why should Indra send a shower at the desire 
of the Lord. The Lord said : — " Once on a time a great Buddha, named 
Chandana, preached all over the world. On one occasion he resided for 
three months at the capital of a king who was one of his ardent 
disciples. During the period of the Lord's residence in the capital 
there was a great draught. The king ordered a great tank to be dug, 
poured all sorts of perfumes and flowers into it, and compelled all his 
subjects to pour the perfumed water, lifted in golden vases, over the Lord's 
head. Indra was so well pleased with the honour done to Sugata that he 
poured immediately a heavy shower of rain. The king raised perfumed 
stupas over the nails and hairs of the Lord, and prayed that he may 
become a Buddha. I am, O bhikshus, that king." 

3. 8tory of the Discus — Chakravaddna. When the lord was 
residing in the Bamboo grove at Rajgriha, there was a merchant in that 
city who had a wife devotedly attached to him. His income always fell 
short of his expenditure; so his hordes were on the point of being 
exhausted. On one occasion his wife gave him a lecture on the advan- 
tages of affluence, which induced him to undertake a distant expedition. 
In the absence of her dearly loved husband, the merchant's wife began 
to worship Vishnu for his prosperity and safe return. She vowed to 
offer a golden discus to Vishnu on the event of her husband's safe 
return. Her husband came back a rich man. True to her vow, she 
proceeded to the temple of Vishnu to offer that god the promised discus. 
The Lord made his appearance before the devout lady in her way to the 
shrine. Finding the Lord S'righana with all the thirty -two signs of 
greatness and eighty minor indications on his person, she offered him the 
discus heedless of all the remonstrances of her companions. Not content 
with offering the discus, she worshipped the Lord, fell into a profound 
meditation, and prayed from the inmost core of her heart that she may be- 
come a Buddha Sugata, free from all pains, and having complete control 
over the senses. The Lord blessed her saying, " she shall become Chakran- 
tara, a great Patyeka Buddha." The discus remained for a time over the 
head of Buddha, and then, by his permission, adorned the heads of Hari and 



200 

Hara. The mercliant, too, at the instance of his wife, became a worship- 
per of the " three jewels." 

4. 8tory of a gliost — Pretdvaddna. When the lord was in the 
Bamboo grove, Maudgalayana, one of his disciples, went to a cremation 
ground, and there saw a ghost covered over with coarse hair, with 
a belly swelling to a mountain's height, with a conical mouth tapering to 
a point, suffering intensely from excruciating pains and a thirst which 
could not be alleviated, and repeatedly falling insensible into hysteric fits. 
On his return he enquired of the Lord the cause of the ghost''s suffering. 
The Lord said the ghost was that of a woman who, in one of her previous 
existences, had refused to give the Lord Ktis'yapa a palmful of water when 
he was very thirsty, and had haughtily insulted her husband when he 
upbraided her for the refusal. The Lord added she was to be rescued 
from her pains by Lokes'vara, son of Jina. 

5. Story of a blossom — S' alipushpdvadana, vide Avadanasataka, 
story No. 53. 

6. Story of the handsome body — YapusTimadaviaddna, vide the same, 
story No. 63. 

7. Story of a Bevaputra who had been cursed to become a hog — 
S'ukardvnddna. Once on a time a Devaputra came to know that he 
would fall from heaven and become a hog in his next existence. The 
idea of degradation proved too much for him ; he fell insensible. Indra, 
by pouring on him a shower of nectar, restored him to his senses, 
and advised him to worship the three jewels whereby he may escape 
the dreaded fate. On account of his devotion to Buddha, Dharma, and 
Sangha he was born in the region of Tushita. Indra knew from the Lord 
that his advice was the best that could have been given to the Devaputra. 

8. Story about questions asked by certain, gods — P rasnottardvadana. 
Once on a time the Lord, after imparting religious instructions to his 
hearers, retired to his chamber and, sitting on a sofa, fell into a vein of 
intense devotional feeling. Gods came down from- heaven to receive 
his answers to the following recondite questions : 

Question. Who attain a good hereafter ? 

Answer. Those who lay out gardens, span rivers with bridges, 
build reservoirs under water-falls ; who are faithful, well-behaved, vera- 
cious, merciful and free from vanity. 

Q. Who goes to hell ? 

A. The blasphemer. 

Q. Who multiplies his sins ? 

A. The blasphemer. 



201 

Q. Who is strong among donors ? 

A. One who distributes rice ip charity. 

Q. Who shines most ? 

A. One who distributes clothes to the poor. 

Q. Who is happy ? 

A. One who gives water to the thirsty. 

Q. Who has the finest person ? 

A. One who gives lamps. 

Q. Which is the keenest dart ? 

A. Malicious words. 

Q. Which is the most fatal poison ? 

A. Anger. 

Q. Which is the most consuming fire ? 

A. Envy. 

Q. Which is the most impenetrable darkness ? 

A. Ignorance. (Avidia.) 

Q. What is to be accepted ? 

A. That which you want. 

Q. What is to be rejected ? 

A. That which you have. 

Q. What is the best armour ? 

A. Forgiveness. 

Q.. What is the sharpest weapon ? 

A. A penetrating intellect. 

Q.. Who is the worst thief ? 

A. One who is clever in sophistry. 

Q. What is wealth to a good man ? 

A. His character. 

The gods returned to heaven well pleased with these answers. 

9. Siori/ of S'uhla — S'ulddvadana, vide Avadanas'ataha, story 
No. 73. 

10. Story of the golden-handed — Hiranyapani, vide thesamCj story 
No 83. 

11. Story of Hastaka — Hastahdvadana. There lived in the city 
of S'ravasti a householder as rich as Kuvera. He had a child who 
remembered the events of his previous existences. The moment he was 
born he kissed his hands, saying " O my hands, I get thee back after 
a long time.'' He was named Hastaka, because he kissed his hands. 
When grown up, Hastaka became a disciple of the Lord, renounced 

26 



202 

the world, and was raised to the rank of an Arhat. Lord Buddha 
narrated the following story to explain the strange circumstance at the 
birth of Hastaka. Lord Kas'yapa preached his religion at Benares. 
He had two Bhikshus under him. One learned and pious, the other 
ignorant. The learned Bhikshu used to take the ignorant one with 
him whenever he was invited to a feast. On a certain occasion Maha- 
punya, the learned Bhikshu, did not find his companion, and was obliged 
to take another with him. To his great surprise he found his old com- 
panion at the feast, and taunted him for coming to a feast without an 
invitation. The taunts enraged the ignorant Bhikshu, who cursed Maha- 
punya to be born without hands, so that we may not again enjoy a 
feast. On return home, Mahapunya engaged himself in a samadhi 
to wipe away the evil of the curse. The ignorant Bhikshu, seeing him 
so engaged and repenting of his hasty conduct, fell at his feet, and 
prayed forgiveness. Mahapunya readily granted this; and said, 
" Listen, my boy, I forgive you the offence you have committed through 
gross ignorance, but you must act according to the directions I give 
you. Injure no animated being ; take nothing that is not given you ; 
abstain from female society ; tell no untruth j indulge not in wicked 
and scurrilous speech,^' He did so, but for the sin of cursing an innocent 
person he was doomed to be born without hands for five hundred births. 
Now through the merit of following Mahapunya's advice he re-got 
his hands. 

12, Story of Sarthavaha — Batnottamavadana. Sarthavaha, a rich 
merchant of S'ravarti, had twice gone to foreign countries on commercial 
speculations, and had twice been shipwrecked. Before proceeding a third 
time he invited a large number of Brahmans, whom he fed sumptuously, 
and promised rich rewards should he return safely from his venture. He 
joined a party of merchants and was so far successful that his 
transactions proved highly profitable ; but in his way home his ship 
was overtaken by a storm and drowned in the middle of the sea. 
He escaped with his life by sticking to a plank. This unnerved him 
quite, and he was very desponding. His wife, a pious woman, thereupon 
advised him to seek the asylum of Buddha. He did so, and promised 
many gifts to Tathagatas in the event of his next venture proving 
successful. The blessings of the Lord had their fruit. Sarthavaha 
returned from his next voyage a very rich man. He redeemed his 
promise to the Lord, and gave the Lord a profusion of jewels which 
changed into a parasol and stood high over the Lord. The Lord was 



203 

greatly pleased aad said, Sarthavaha would, in a future, life be a Buddha 
under the name of Ratnottama. 

From the colophon it is obvious that the codex is incomplete. 
Beginning. ^ sth: ^'^^^^T«JTiq^=^Kl! i 

"«8lft^r ^'KT^*!f f<S^st?^! sift: U 

-J ^ 
^i^HT^f ^wri\7fi fg^rg^ gwT^t i 

qsiTfw: ^igifii^«f ^Tuafl^'^fr ii 
End. ^«I^ g^'nTfT'T: ^«tt} + ^«II«^T I 

vi 

trtiPqsiT sisr^Pi ^I'ft'ji! v^'%^ I 
jc4 "t# H^i'^ stsiT'^'r 5itifs[<rri ii 
Colophon. TffT 't^HT^r^^T'T ?T^w i 



No. B, 7. 
SADDHAUMA-PUNpARrKA. 



Substance, yellow-coloured Nepalese paper, 15 X 5i inches. Folia, 131. 
Lines on a page, 10. Extent in ^lokas, 2,800. Character, Nenrdri. Appear- 
ance, old. Date, ? Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

An exposition of the leading topics of the Buddhist religion, forming 
one of the nine works constituting the scriptures of the Nepalese 
Buddhists. Mr. Hodgson describes it as " a Vyakara^a of the sort called 



204 

gatha. It contains an account of the Mali a and otter Dlpa Danas, or 
of the lights in honour of the Buddhas, and Bodhisattvas ; with narrations 
of the lives of several former Buddhas^ by S'akya, as well as prophetic 
indications of the future eminence of some of his disciples. Speakers 
and hearers S^akya, Maitreya, Manjusri ; &c." The work was translated 
into Chinese by Che-yen of the Sung dynasty (960 — ^1278), and issued 
under the name of Fa-hwa-sun-mui-hing. An epitome of it appears 
among the books of the Western Tsin catalogue^ and a commentary of 
it in select explanations under the name 6f Fa-hwa-in-kia (Beal, pp. 14, 
104). M. Burnouf's translation of the work into French was published 
in 1852, under the name of Le Lotus de la Bonne Loi. The scene is 
laid on the Vulture Peak {Grirdhrakuta) in Behar, and the work is divided 
into 27 chapters. 

Contents : I. On one occasion when the Lord was sojourning on the 
Vulture Peak near Rajagriha with a retinue of twelve hundred Bhikshus, 
he felt a desire to expound the principles of Mahanirdes'a, or the great 
identification of all things. Thereupon he performed the Samadhi 
called antarnirddesa, or " intellectual ascertainment." While he was 
so engaged, showers of flowers fell on the place, and all Buddhist sacred 
places quaked. The Devas, impelled by wonder, came to the place. 
They found rays of light issuing from between the eyebrows of the 
saint, and cast a blaze of light on all sacred places. Maitreya, behold- 
ing this, asked of Manjusri the cause thereof, and was informed in 
reply that the miracle indicated that the Lord was about to expound the 
work under notice on the great religion, and a summary is given of the 
entire work. 

II. The Lord explains to S'ariputra how former Buddhas had 
come to know all that nobody else knew, a.nd how they expounded the 
great religion. 

III. S'ariputra enquires why had so many Buddhas expounded 
the same religion ? The Lord assures S'ariputra that he would be in a 
distant future time a Buddha under the name of Padmaprabha, and 
that his place of enlightenment will be Viraja. Adverting to the three 
Ydnas, he says they are but different methods of attaining the same end. 
This is illustrated by a parable. When a house is on fire, the father, to 
save his children from being burnt, says, " boys, there are in the field horses, 
elephants, goats, pigs and sheep ; go there and I shall give them to you 
to play with ;" they go out and are then carried away to the same haven 
of security. So do Buddhas provide the three Ydnas to save mankind 



205 

from the burning world. Nor do they thereby commit a falsehood, for 
whatever the Yana adopted, the end is the same. 

IV. The parable is elaborated by Subhuti, Katyayana, Mahakdsyapa, 
and Mahamaudgalyayana, who illustrate the subject by adverting to the 
sons of rich and poor men, the sons of rich men gain wealth by inheri- 
tance, poor men become rich by commerce in foreign countries, and 
when all become rich, the result becomes the same. 

V. The Lord illustrates the subject by adverting to the same rain 
promoting the growth of different kinds of plants, and the same sua 
and moon enlightening all objects, concluding by saying that though 
the Yanas were different, the religion taught was the same. The 
question is then asked by Mahakasyapa as to whether Nirvana was 
the same, or were there different kinds of it? The Lord declares it to be 
one and the same, and illustrates it by the parable of the born blind, who 
does not admit that there are different forms and colours and such objects 
as the sun, the moon, and the stars, but, on being cured of his blindness by 
proper drugs administered by competent physicians, becomes conscious 
of the truth, so the blinded by ignorance have occasion for various 
remedies according to the nature of their ailments, and ultimately come 
to the same knowledge. 

VI. The Lord predicts how and when and where the four questioners 
will become Buddhas in remote future times. 

VII. Account of an ancient Buddha named Mahabhijnajnana- 
bhibhu who bad sixteen sons, and who first inculcated the three Yanas. 
His doctrines are also ex])lained. 

VIII. The Lord predicts how, when, and where Purna and four 
others of his disciples would become Buddhas in future times. 

IX. Similar predictions regarding Ananda, Rahula and others. 

X. The Lord declares that whoever will listen with becoming faith 
and devotion to even one verse of the law as explained by him in the 
Yana-sutra will attain the perfect Buddha knowledge. 

XI. An apparition of a Stupa appears in the sky over the Lord, 
and heavenly voices proclaim the merits of the Lord of the Saddharma- 
pundariifa. The Lord explains the meaning of the stupa, and then 
enters it. Thence he expounds the law. 

XII. In a large assembly of Bhikshus, the Lord predicts when 
and where Gautami and Yasodhara would become Buddhas. 

XIII. Directions regarding the expounding of ' the Saddharma- 
pundarika, after the Nirvana of the Lord. Improper places and 
immoral persons denied the benefit of the Lord. 



206 

XIV. Permission granted to eight foreign Bodhisattvas to ex- 
pound the Saddharma-pundarikaj and prediction as to what would be the 
result thereof. Numerous Bodhisattvas spring up from under the earth, 
and this miracle is expounded. Maitreya asks how should these have ex- 
pounded the perfect Bodhi when the same was first obtained by the Lord 
under the Bodhi tree. 

XV. The Lord explains this paradox. He says that the fact of 
his acquiring the Bodhi knowledge under the fig-tree should not be borne 
in mind ; the knowledge he acquired had existed from long before, and it 
should be looked upon as of remote antiquity. 

XVI — XVIII. On the merits of the work and the advantages of 
hearing it read and expounded. 

XIX. Story of Sadaparibhuta, a Bhikshu, who used to recite 
twenty Gathas and thereby obtain alms. The merits of those gathas. 
This Sadaparibhuta was no other than the Lord himself in a former 
birth. 

XX. Directions to those who came from under the earth to preach 
the Saddharma-pundarika. A miracle produced by the Lord putting 
forth his tongue which touched the region of Brahma. 

XXI. Advantages of putting on the work and magic formulae 
as charms. 

XXII. Story of Sarvasattvapriyadarsana, a Bodhisattva, who 
wrapped his body in cloth steeped in aromatic oils, and set fire to it to 
worship a Buddha, named Chandra-vimala-suryaprabhasasri, for twelve 
hundred years, and, on the Nirvana of that Tathagata, caused to be 
erected 84,000 chaityas, which he worshipped for 72,000 years. The 
Lord was that Bodhisattva. 

XXIII. Story of Gadgadas'vara, who worshipped stupas with 
many precious offerings. He was the same with the Lord. 

XXIV. Account of Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara. 

XXV. Story of Subhanyaha, who with his two sons Vimala- 
garbha and Vimala-netra and his wife Vimala-datta, worshipped a 
TathagatanamedJaladharagarjita-ghosha-susvara-nakshatra-sankusumita, 
and studied the Saddharma-pundarika. In the time of S'akya these 
were born as Bodhisattvas of the names of Padmasri, Bhaisajya-raya, 
Bhaishajya-samudyata, and Vairochana, respectively. 

XXVI. Samantabhadra Bodhisattva promises that he will not 
only not subject to retributive punishment those who will wear the Sad- 
dharma-pundarika, but reward them. 



207 

XXVII. The Lord enjoins that his followers should teach, expound 
and promote the spread of the religion of the Saddharma-pundarika. 

Beginning. ^ sffl: g4^^[ft«=^Hr: I t<?^ ^^TTsf q'WT^T'Cfir^^t ^^^^- 

i3i?t^ ^'ara v%rit ^^ I T^ *T«ni<ifl^rgi'T ^h^ wn^r'r j:m- 

End. T^fltT^^>RRr"n»tsr9% ^^"'^^T^imm ^"ifi: ^Rj^^^^^r ^^- 

Colophon. g^T?t ^rr'Hj^^^ ^'»'?W^ ^^t^b fl'^tj^ trfx^TsiR^T^ ^4- 

\j ^ -J Cn, vj \l 'J 



No. B, 3. 
SAMADHIRAJA. 

Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 14^ x 3J inches. Folia, 226. Lines 
on a page, 6. Extent in ^lokas, 5,339. Character, Newari. Appearance, old. 
Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

A work of the class called Vyakarana, or narrative, in which various 
forms of meditations are described at length, pre-eminence being given to 
a meditation or Samddhi called ' the king of Samadhis.' Its object is to 
show the process by which a votary of Buddha may rise to the highest 
eminence, each chapter showing a step in the gradual progress of the 
human mind in its moral condition, and reciting one or more stories on 
moral excellence in illustration of the different stages of that progress. 
The principal interlocutors are Buddha and Chandraprabha, and the 



208 

scene is laid on the Gridhrakuta hill wtere Buddha expounded the 
principles of a rehgion which showers its blessings at all its stages^ at the 
beginning, at the middle, and at the end. 

Contents: Chapter I. Chandraprabha asked the Lord how can 
the Buddha be known? How can a man become veracious ? How can he 
become an object of reverence even to the gods ? And how can he 
obtain intuitive perception of things ? 

The Lord replied, that a Bodhisattva can easily attain all these, by- 
practising the king of Samadhis named Sarvadharmasvabhavasamatavipas- 
chita Samadhi. ITirst of all a Bodhisattva should be even-tempered, 
indifferent to the pleasures and pains of the world. Then, he should try 
to shower benefits on others in spite of all the obstacles that may be 
thrown in his way. When he becomes thoroughly even-tempered, bene- 
volent and persevering, he is fit to attain those conditions which prepare 
the mind for the great Samadhi. These conditions are Karya-samvara, 
Vak-samvara &c.* 

II. The lord said " When I was a Chakravarti, I placed myself 
under the guidance of many Arhats and young Tathagatas on this very 
hill Gridhrakuta. The last of my spiritual guides was S'alendra, a king, 
who lived for six hundred and seventy millions of years. I worshipped 
him for full one hundred thousand millions of years, and he blessed me 
with the knowledge of the great Samadhi. The worship of Tathagatas 
is one of the principal conditions of the Samadhi. 

III. He only is fit to receive the knowledge of the SamSdhi who is 
prepared to proclaim the merits of the Tathagatas who have preceded him. 
The merits of a Tathagata are, that he is perfectly enlightened, learned, 
well-conducted, well-bestowed ; that he is perfectly conversant with the 
ways of men ; he is without a superior ; he has a complete control 
over the senses. 

IV. The real nature of the Samadhi is that the mind, unclouded 
by ignorance, should be fixed on one point. The knowledge of restraint 
put upon by ignorance, removal of the burdens of the world, the control 
of passions, and the correction of faults; — these also are essential to the 
Samddhi. 

V. In ancient times the Jambudvipa was divided between two 
kings named Dridhabala and Mahabala. Ghoshadatta, one of the most 
ancient Tathagatas, made his appearance in the kingdom of Mahabala, 
induced him to enter the hermitage, and taught him the great Samadhi. 

* For explanations of these terms, vide chapter, 38. 



209 

Mahabala imparted the knowledge of the Samadhi to innumerahle creatures 
for a hundred million kalpas, and afterwards at the end of a hundred thou- 
sand full kalpas attained nirvana. The myriadsj who had been present at 
the time the king received instruction from Ghoshadatta also, after a long 
time, attained the highest object of their wishes. " So" said the Lord 
" he who wants to receive the knowledge of the Samadhi must renounce 
the world, and rise superior to all terrestrial attractions." 

VI. One of the principal conditions of receiving the knowledge 
of the Samadhi is, that the receiver should be always ready and eagar 
to honour all Tathagatas, whether " in flesh" or in the nirvana state, 
with offerings of cloth, alms-bowls, flowers, stupas, &c. 

VII. Three kskdntis are indispensable to the Samadhi. The first 
kshanti is that one should not quarrel with another, and should not 
speak unnecessarily. He should be intent on the acquirement of merit, 
and should consider all phenomena as illusions. The second is that the 
mind should be full of goodness (Satvaguna) ; it should be persevering in 
doing good to others, and should consider all creatures as equal. The 
third is that the devotee should perceive the Lokanatha in all the quarters 
of the universe. 

VIII. The Bodhisattva who seeks to attain the knowledge of the 
Samadhi learns to regard all phenomena as abJiava or unsubstantial. For 
instance, the phenomena of colour, sound, smell, &c. are not produced by 
causes, nay they are not produced at all. They cannot be defined, 
cannot be restrained. They are transient, because they cannot be always 
found in the same substance. They are void. They were inert before 
their manifestation. A Bodhisattva should be thoroughly conversant with 
the abhavasvabhdva or nihilistic character of all phenomena. 

There lived, innumerable kalpas ago, a Tathagata, who, the moment 
he was born, rose to the height of seven palm trees placed one upon 
another in the sky, and proclaimed that all things are produced from 
nothing. His awful words were echoed from all mountain peaks, from 
all trees and leaves, and from all herbs and bushes. He taught a prince, 
named Mahakarunachitti, the great Samadhi. The prince became a 
Tathagata, Suvichintitartha by name. 

IX. One who seeks to attain the highest bliss, one who wishes to 
ferry all creatures over the troublesome sea of the world {bhavdrnava), 
should be practised in, and proclaim, the great Samadhi taught by 
all Buddhas, for it is the way to bliss for all of them, and explains the 
true idea of the quality of all creatures. One who seeks to attain the 

27 



210 

Samadhi should regard every substance as an illusion, a dream, a mirage. 
One who is convinced of the illusive character of things, i. e., one who 
is gambhiradhamahsJiantihusala, can never be led astray by temptations, 
by sins, and by fascinating charms of the external world, because he never 
regards them as entities. He is honest, unerring, unmoved by passions, 
and becomes indifferent to pleasure. He is said to be capable of intent 
attention to one object, to be free from illusions, clever, prosperous, 
blessed, of irreproachable character, and possessed of wisdom. 

X. " Be wise," said the Lord to Chandraprabha, " for even the 
Sambodhi is not beyond the reach of a wise man, much less so is your 
Samadhi.^' 

" I shall become wise," replied Chandraprabha, " I shaU be regard- 
less of life and health ; I shall learn from the Tathagatas. I am deter- 
mined to attain Bodhi knowledge, to destroy the evil genius Mara, to 
rescue millions from all suffering. Place, O Lord, your right hand 
on my head." 

No sooner was the holy hand, impressed with all the signs of great- 
ness, placed on Chandraphrabha's head than all the hundreds and thousands 
and millions of Samadhis known presented themselves before him. 
Chandraprabha invited the Lord to his own house at Rajagriha, and 
gave him a grand entertainment. 

XL After the entertainment Chandraprabha presented the Lord 
with a rich robe valued at 990,000,000,000,000 pieces of gold, and distri- 
buted raiments to all the Bhikshus. All this timfi Chandraprabha was 
pondering over the most abstruse points of the Buddhist creed. He 
could not understand how the Bodhisattva could be non-cognisant of the 
phenomena of nature, &c. 

The omniscient, aware of Chandraprabha's doubts from the very 
beginning, took this opportunity of explaining them, so that in a short 
time Chandraprabha was convinced. 

XII. The Bodhisattva, who knows the nature of all phenomena, 
i. e., that they are only illusions, becomes an adept in recollecting past 
events, rises superior to the temptations of the senses, and becomes proof 
against the fascinations of Mara and his daughters. 

XIII. The Bodhisattva who seeks for the relief of creatures from 
their pains should hear, receive, teach, promulgate, deliberate over, and 
spread the knowledge of the Samadhi, because it cures all maladies. 
Such a Bodhisattva is sure to attain the Sambodhi knowledge. 

XIV. Prom the house of Chandraprabha the Lord returned to Gri- 



211 

dhrakiita, and there graced a ttroue prepared for him by Maitreya, who, 
with his permission, had returned a little earlier. Chandraprabha came to 
honour the Lord with a train of 8,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 persons. 
He sat down, and in a bumble manner asked the Lord, what were 
the necessary qualifications for receiving the Samadhi ? The Lord said, 
" they are four in number. The Bodbisattva who is learned and has such 
a complete control over his passion as never to resent a wrong has the 
first qualification. One who is upright, modest, retiring, noted for the 
unswerving integrity of his character, and is lauded by Aryyas and wise 
men, has the second qualification. One who is contented, free from 
avarice, humble, fond of the three dhatus (jewels), who relieves the 
distressed, and eagarly thirsts for Sambodhi, has the third qualification. 
One who is satisfied with his own condition, who has heard the 
scriptures, who is experienced in religious duties, to whom Dharma is 
the only guide, and who gladly imparts his knowledge to others, has the 
fourth qualification." 

The Lord continued, " listen to me, Chandraprabha, long, long ago, 
there was a Tathagata, Svaraiigaghosha by name. In the same kalpa he 
was preceded by Jnanasvara, Tejassvara, and Matisvara, all of whom had 
practised this Samadhi. Long, long before the earliest of these, the world 
was blessed with the advent of Nareudraghosha. Standing in the sky 
he lectured on the great Samadhi. The earth shook under his awful voice. 
The king S'iribala renounced the world at the bidding of that lord, and 
he was followed by all his friends, relatives, ministers and subjects. 

"After his death S iribala was again born in the same family. His 
name then was Dridhabala. He still exists and knows my mission. He 
has published millions and tens of millions of aphorisms on the illusive 
character of substances. All Bodhisattvas still believe in those apho- 
risms. Now-a-days he sometimes lectures on that Samadhi which leads 
to the purity of speech, body, mind and sight, and which destroys the 
effects of human work. Sometimes he speaks of the Samadhi which leads 
to salvation, lit. the reflection of the eight membered passage ^STfif*»?Hi- 
HTWsiT, to the meditation of the subordinate parts of the communion with 
Tathagatas, to truth, which produces keenness of intelligence, restoration 
of sight to the blind, to independence, to the knowledge of the evancescent 
character of the world" [lit. the interview or knowledge of illusion which 
has no beginning). 

The Lord added that he had in one of his previous existences obtain- 
ed the knowledge of the Samadhi from Buddha Dridhabala, and the events 
of bis former existence he still remembered. 



212 

XV. Not to be puffed up with pride for one's own good works, to 
be indefatigable in the service of others^ to have a large stock of 
knowledge, and to have unfailing presence of mind, are the qualities 
indispensable to one who aspires to the great Samadhi. One who has 
a mind to attain the knowledge can hear it at any time from any one. 

XVI. A Bodhisattva who is not frightened at the hard conditions 
of the great Samddhi, becomes expert in eoquiring into, in investigating 
and in ascertaining, the laws and religion of Buddha. He also receives 
ismancipation according to the laws of that religion. On hearing these 
laudations, Chandraprabha became very anxious to practice the Samadhi, 
and obtained the permission of the Lord to do so. While he was engaged 
in deep meditation, the prince of the celestial choristers came down with 
five hundred musicians to sing hymns of praise in honour of the Lord. At 
the will of the Lord these gave out only Gathas. In causing the pro- 
duction of these Gathas the Lord had two objects in view, 1st, teaching 
the Gandharvas the proper notes of solemn music, and confirming by 
charming music Chandraprabha's noble resolution to practise the Samadhi. 
And the Lord succeeded in accomplishing both these objects. The Gathas 
chanted on this occasion are named Aclihitya-huddha-darma-nidhyapti- 
gaiha or that which confirms the mind in the doctrines of the Buddhist 
religion, which is hard to comprehend. 

XVII. In times long since past, king Indraketudvaja proclaimed 
the doctrines of a religion which trains the mind in benevolence, and in 
doing good to all creatures. One who prepares himself to accept the 
doctrines of that religion must be of spotless character, a friend to goodness, 
and an enquirer after truth. He should never be tired in honouring, 
serving, and doing good to Buddhas. If he fulfils all these conditions, he 
can easily obtain Sambodhi knowledge. 

XVIII. A Bodhisattva aspiring after the highest bliss should have 
a thorough grasp of the doctrines and teachings of the religion which 
showers its blessings on all. His character too should be irreproachable. 

Two sons of a banker were induced to renounce the world by a Sugata. 
They lived in a lonely forest. The king of Jambudvipa, when out on a 
hunting excursion, entered the forest, and became their disciple. Many 
thousands of his followers embraced the religion of their king. The 
king's brother, enraged at the defection from the good old religion of the 
Tirthikas, ordered the hermits to be killed. In the next existence one of 
these hermits became Dipankara, and the Lord was the other brother. The 
king is Maitreya, and Devadatta the king's brother. 



213 

XIX. A Eodhisattva desirous o£ attaining the great SamadKl 
should be regardless of his life and health. Any attention paid to life is 
injurious to his spiritual welfare, for it breeds work. 

In meditating on the form, of a Tathagata, he should not think of 
a material form, because a Tathagata is composed purely of religion. 
The form of a Tathagata is not produced ; it is an effect without a cause, 
solemn, of immeasurable virtue, the cause of all things, immovable, base- 
less, resembling the sky, invisible, the eye of the universe, without 
a beginning, beyond the reach of thought, pertaining to the nature of 
the mind, unmoved by pleasure or pain, beyond the universe, without 
abode, full of love, self -controlled, impenetrable, infallible, and properly 
characterised by the word nihility. There is no other way of compre- 
hending the form of a Tathagata than the practice of the Samadhi. 

XX. All the senses and their objects are tbe attributes of Tathagata, 
i. e., they are the different manifestations of his qualities. Since the 
senses and their objects are infinite and inconceivable, the attributes of 
Tathagata are also infinite and inconceivable. 

All the feelings are the attributes of Tathagata. Since these are 
infinite and incomprehensible, the attributes also are infinite and in- 
comprehensible. 

Similarly all the infinite perceptions, passions and impressions are 
the attributes of the lord. 

The knowledge of the identity of all substances, qualities and 
actions with Tathagata is called the knowledge of Dharma, or Dkarma- 
samvit. 

The earnest desire produced for the knowledge of Dharma is called 
the NiruMi-samvit. 

The precepts taught by one who has the knowledge of Dharma 
are called the Pratibhana-samiiit. There is another called Artha-samvit. 
One who is desirous of acquiring the four Samvits given above, 
should practise the great Samadhi. 

XXI. AH Bodhisattvas should consider Tathagata as nothing but an 
embodiment, Rupa, (senses and their objects). He should consider Tatha- 
gata as identical with the imperishable state of Riipa, and he should believe 
in the thorough and complete identity of these two, Rupa and Tathagata. 
Similarly he should believe firmly in the identity of the Tathagata 
with feelings, perception, passions and impressions. So that he should 
belieye that pentaform matter is nothing but the Tathagata. 

XXII. A Bodhisattva should preach before all creatures the know- 



214 

ledge of salvation, and should point out to them that merit, the root of 
all prosperity is the only means for the attainment of salvation. He 
should also explain to them what that merit consisted of. After doing 
these things, he becomes expert in the ways and means, and in a short 
time successfully accomplishes the Samadhi to which there is nothing 
superior. 

XXIII. A Bodhisattva should learn to be vigilant, and to conduct 
himself so as to acquire watchfulness. One who is thoroughly well-versed 
in the six Paramitds acquires these qualifications. The following ten 
qualifications are acquired by those who acquire the Paramita of Dana or 
charity. (1) He subdues malice j (2) acquires a self-sacrificing spirit ; 
(3) affords enjoyments to all; (4) is born in a rich family ; (5) becomes 
large-hearted ; (6) an object of affection to men ; (7) the leader of 
the four assemblies ; (8) enjoys pleasure without being addicted to it ; 

(9) his hand and feet become soft; (10) the sole of his feet becomes 
smooth. 

XXIV. Following are the ten quahfications acquired by a Bodhi- 
sattva who has acquired the second Paramita or S'ila, i. e., good conduct. 
(1) He completes his education ; (2) shapes his conduct according to the 
precepts of Buddha; (3) is not an object of censure to the wise; (4) 
never breaks his promise ; (5) cultivates knowledge ; (6) renounces the 
world; (7) endeavours to attain nirvana, 8 (?) (9) acquires Samadhi; 

(10) is never poor. 

XXV. Following are the ten qualifications acquired by one who 
is well established in Kshanti. (1) He is not burnt by fire; (2) not 
wounded by weapons ; (3) never drowned in water ; (4) not affected by 
poison; (5) is protected by gods; (6) obtains the thirty-two signs of 
greatness;* (7) is never overtaken by misfortune ; (8) has an easy access 
to Brahmaloka; (9) leads a happy life ; (10) is always cheerful. 

Then follow enumerations of the qualifications of Bodhisattvas 
who have acquired the Paramitas of Virya, Dhyana, Prajnd, &c., strength, 
meditation, spiritual knowledge, scholarship, habit of teaching, the 
doctrine of S'unyata or emptiness of the world, Samadhi, and the habit 
of living in forests. 

The Bodhisattva who has acquired true knowledge and has shaken 
off all connection with mundane qualities acquires the five experiences in 
addition to the tenfold qualifications aforesaid. 

The five experiences are called nidhanas or treasures : (1) of Buddha ; 
* See my translation of the Lalita-Vistara, p. 142. 



215 

(2) of Dliarma; (3) of Jnana; (4) of purvantaparanta pratyutpanna-jnana ; 
the fifth is wanting. Seeing innumerable Buddhas in all directions is called 
the treasure of Buddha. Hearing the preaching of these Buddhas is 
called the treasure of Dharma. The acquirement of that knowledge is 
called the treasury of Jnana by the virtue of which a Bodhisattva retains 
all moral precepts, teaches them to all creatures, and knows their real 
import. That experience by which thinkers obtain insight into the events, 
past present and future, is called punantaparointa-pratyutpanna-jna- 
nidhana, {lit) treasure of present, past and future. 

XXVI. The Lord said, " Chandraprabha, you should learn to long 
for entering the hermitage, leaving your empire and all your wealth behind. 
Then you should learn to shake off all connection with the gunas, to 
acquire Viveka and Kshanti, i. e., true knowledge and the mercies. You 
should hear of the great Samadhi, and sacrifice yourself for the benefit of 
others.'' 

Some hundreds of kalpas ago, Dridhadanta, a king of Jambu- 
dvipa, heard the great Samadhi from Tejoganaraja, a Buddha. He 
renounced the world and gave all that he had to the Sugata and to 
beggars. 

XXVII. In this chapter are enumerated the fruits of hearing 
and of practising the great Samadhi. 

XXVIII. In order that he may learn the nature of Dharma 
a Bodhisattva should listen to, practise, accept, teach and inculcate 
the great Samadhi. One who is convinced of the nihility of all qualities 
becomes the object of Sugata's affection. 

XXIX. Not to perceive the purity of character, not to practice the 
Samadhi, not to inculcate knowledge, to scrutinize the doctrine of mukti, 
and to know as it is the doctrine of the soul's salvation is called Apari- 
graha or non-acceptance of all qualities. 

The experience by which a Bodhisattva, after displaying the power 
of working miracles, inculcates all the moral precepts to all creatures is 
called Parikarma or decoration of the great experience. One who 
desires the acquirement of the Parikarma and the Aparigraha should 
listen to &c. the great Samadhi. 

He only is Buddha who finds unity in the diversity of Dharma, 
inasmuch as in their character they are all Sunya or empty. 

XXX. A Bodhisattva, eagarly longing for the great Samadhi and 
for Bodhi knowledge, should believe in the doctrine of S linyata or 



216 

nihility, and should be careful in the worship of living or dead Tatha- 
gatas. A Bodhisattva longing for mukti should worship the Tathagatas. 
He should with a sonorous voice and with a heart melting at the suffering 
of others, proclaim the great Samadhi, for it alone can fix the mind in 
the S'unj'a, the cause of all qualities. When the Bodhisattva does this 
he is happy in salvation. In such an enviable position he perceives nothing. 
Deeply engaged in Pranidhanas and in the Anupalambha Samadhi, he 
delights himself and others with meditations. 

Innumerable kalpas ago, Ghoshadatta, saving the souls of millions, 
obtained the highest object of his wishes, viz., nirvana. When king of 
Jambudvipa he determined to worship the great Sugata in a manner 
worthy of such a great potentate. Kshemadatta, a Bodhisattva, in the 
presence of the multitude assembled at the royal palace, thrust his right 
hand into a blazing fire, first wrapping the hand with cloth saturated 
with oil. Unmoved by the excruciating pain the Bodhisattva began 
eloquently to preach the Samddhi. 

XXXI. One who aspires after the great Samadhi and the Bodhi 
knowledge should act according to the following four moral injunctions. 
(1) He should distribute alms for acquiring the knowledge of " easy 
means" from Tathagatas who know it. (2) He should try to learn it 
from those that have the Bodhi knowledge. (3) He should be ready to 
sacrifice his own self for the good of those that love worldly enjoyments. 
(4) He should teach the knowledge of self to those that long for it. 

Achintya-pranidhana-visesha-samudgataraja, a Tathagata, was the 
teacher of a religion which prevailed for millions of years. At last, the 
Bhikshus, the guardians of his faith, became hopelessly corrupt. With 
one noble exception, all of them cared only for their own worldly interests. 
They all died of loathsome diseases. But that honest Bhikshu became 
the preceptor of Jnanabala, king of Jambudvipa. In the course of 
time, an abscess formed on the Bhikshu's thigh. The disease was 
pronounced bej'ond the skill of medical men. Every one was sorry for 
the honest and faithful Bhikshu. The king and his family were in 
great distress at the prospect of losing their preceptor. It was then 
announced to the king in a dream that the only medicine which could 
cure the Bhikshu was human flesh and blood ; the blood to be used as 
an ointment, and the flesh as diet. This the king caused to be proclaimed 
all over his wide empire. But no one could be found willing to offer his 
own flesh and blood to the holy man. At length Jn^navati, the king's 



217 

daughter, came forward, and cut out a portion of flesh from her own 
thigh for the use of the royal preceptor. But there was still a diffi- 
culty. The Bhikshu had scruples to take human flesh. So it was 
dressed privately, and served to him. He ate it unwittingly, and was 
cured. 

XXXII. A'nanda asked the Lord why Bodhisattvas feel no pain 
even when their limbs are torn asunder. The Lord replied, as a 
worldly-minded man, every part of whose body is burning under the 
fire of sin, can feel pleasure without the fire being extinguished, he has 
no pleasure but in the pursuit of gain ; so does a Bodhisattva, who is 
desirous of escaping from the burning fires of grief, birth and decrepitude, 
and longs to obtain nirvana, feel no pain from such trifliug matters as 
the amputation of a hand, or a foot. 

The following story was cited in illustration of the preceding. At 
the time when Hatnapadma-chandra-vis'uddhabhyudgataraja obtained 
nirvana, there lived a king named Suradatta, who reigned over the 
whole of Jambudvipa. His capital was at Ratnavati. He had eighty 
thousand wives, a thousand sons, and five hundred daughters. At that 
time, the false faith in mantras and sacrifices of the Tirthikas prevailed. 
The Bodhisattvas, under the leadership of their great preacher Pushpa- 
chandra, withdrew to a forest named Samanta-khanda. (A leaf here is 
lost in the MS.) 

Pushpachandra, by observing a fast of three days, converted 
millions to his faith. On the fourth day of his fasting he imparted 
Bodhi knowledge to millions at Ratnavati. On the fifth day he brought 
the queens to his faith. On the sixth the princes were converted. On 
the seventh day he presented himself before the king, who was surrounded 
by his servants and the immates of his seraglio. At the appearance of 
the Bodhisattva the king^s followers fell prostrate at his feet. But other 
feelings were working in the king's mind. He was surprised to find a 
stranger honoured so much in his presence. The Bhikshu's comely 
person his bewitching beauty, and his appearance before the inmates 
of the harem roused deep suspicion in the king, who, without any enquiry, 
ordered the Bhikshu to be killed by mutilation. His hands and feet were 
separated from his body, and his eyes were plucked out. A week later, the 
king happened to pass by the way where the murder had been committed. 
He found that putrefaction had not yet set in in the Bhikshu's corpse : it 
looked as fresh as ever. The king then became aware of his own folly. 
28 



218 

He recognized in the Bhikshu some Tathagata, and became the prey of 
remorse. 

" One who desires the great Samadhi, Ananda," added the Lord, 
" should preach the rehgion of Tathagata even at the risk of his life." 

XXXIII. When a Bodhisattva wishes to attain the excellent Bodhi 
knowledge he should listen to, practise, and preach, the great Samadhi. 

XXXIV. In order to obtain the knowledge of Bodhi, a Bodhi- 
sattva should sow the seeds of prosperity. 

Unnumbered ages ago Ganes'vara was a great Jina, and Varapushpa 
a great king. The latter consecrated innumerable gardens to the honour 
of the Sugata. He used to distribute food to the followers of Ganes'vara. 
He fell in, one day, with the Tathagata, and learned from him the great 
Samadhi. With five hundred of his sons he renounced the world, and 
practised the religion of Tathagata. After the nirvana of Ganes'varaj 
people returned to their old superstition ; but they were brought back to 
Buddha^s religion by Yas'ahprabha. 

XXXV. " You should," said the Lord, " learn to restrain your body. 
By so doing a Bodhisattva learns to be indifferent to all doctrines, is 
endowed with the thirty -two great signs and eighty subsidiary indications 
of greatness,* aquires the ten supernatural powers of a Tathagata, the four 
vpisdoms, the eighteen Vainikas, the doctrine of Buddha, the three delights 
of the Moksha, the four Viharas of Brahma, the four Pratisanvids, the 
thirty-seven inferences of Bodhi, forgiveness, doubt and discrimination. By 
restraining the body, a Bodhisattva shrinks with horror from slaughter, 
theft, incontinence, falsehood, malicious speech, harsh words, contradic- 
tions, incoherent speech, robbery, murder, false notions, error, vanity, 
drugging, confining, obstructing, beating, threatening, piercing, anger, 
and covetousness. His hands and feet cannot be separated from his body, 
and if they be separated, he never feels weakened thereby. 

The three delights of Moksha are — the delight afforded by the 
knowledge of Nihility, the delight afforded by the knowledge that 
things are produced without a cause, and the delight that he has to per- 
form no samadhis any more. 

The four amusements (Viharas), or those of friendliness {Maitri) 
of sympathy, [Karund) of delight, and of indifference. 

For the four Pratisafivits, vide chapter XX, p. 213. 

The thirty-seven inferences are the four associations (causes of 
memory), four destructions, four powers of working miracles, five senses, 
five powers, seven subordinates of Bodhi, and the eight ways to these. 
• Vide my translation of the Lalita Vistara, p. 142. 



219 

Vis'eshachaili, a king, obtained the knowledge of Kayasafivara or 
tbe restraint of the body^ from Jnanaprabha, a Tathagata. Kayasafivara is 
only the entrance to better and nobler conditions. Tbe disciple must try 
to think that bis body is as pure and brilliant as the sky, and then he 
should try to identify these two things, the sky and his body. 

XXXVI. The next step to be taken by a Bodhisattva is to aim at 
the purity of physical actions, and at the restraint of speech ( Vaksanvara) . 
The latter shows the inactivity of existence in Nihility, tbe illusive nature 
of all things created, and that annihilation is the only truth. 

XXXVII. The restraint of mind, Manah-sanvara, shows that the 
mind is unreal like a dream, an illusion, a mirage. From it men become 
fearless, worship Buddha, and learn a samadhi named Jvalantarabha. 

XXXVIII. Explanations of tbe following technical terms : 

Tbe purity of action is aversion to the world which is merely an 
illusion. 

Aramhhanasamatilcrama, or abandoning of works; it is the giving up 
of all actions from the knowledge that they are unreal. 

Skandliaparijna, or indifference to the Skandhas, is related to the 
Skandhas produced by the knowledge of their unreality. 

Ayatanapakarslia, or low estimate of the senses, is abandoning them 
from the conviction of their shadowy nature. 

Trislina-prahana, or want of ambition, is the refraining from all 

Dharmas. 

AnutpadasdJcshatkriya, or sight of things unborn, is tbe non-perception 
of the Dharmas. 

Kriyoivatara is not attempting the destruction of mundane pains 
arising from Virya. 

Hetudipand is the non-cessation of the Skandhas. 

Karmaphalabhiprande/a is the destruction of the consequences of 
■works which are illusive like dreams. 

Mdrgabhdvana is the perception of the way to salvation. 

Tathagata-samabodhana is tbe knowledge of the teaching of all the 

Buddbas. 

XXIX to XLI wanting. 

XLII. The Lord having discoursed upon the innumerable benefits to 
be derived by the practice of tbe Great Samadhi, many millions of his hearers 
obtained the Bodhi knowledge, many resolved to obtain it, many longed to 
become Pratyeka Buddbas, and a change for the better was produced in all. 



220 

Beginning. <*■ siftr Ks^^ra i ta^'ssiwt^ ^r^TtTp^^^^^ i 

^Tm4 trf^^Ttrn^ ^xi'siTTfl'^ ^«t: ii 
jr»)l<;i<,KF^<jQi ^^t v^ surrsit i 
«rCtF«iw3^^^ flf miW ^*nRi'^ ii 
viT^tr^^^f^fm"^ fr^^^^fwfff i 
^T^cnawrqi (?) iTSri ^^^ ^^^PS? n 
^3<i^fii<r<si*itTf«ig=^^«^ff I 

^^'sg stf^^ ft^if^: Uf(^ g'T fl"??^fsr^-^ i 

^f €f 5J5?: si^ig ^q^ ^'^rT'JJ ^Rlf^iT 

fsf4m f^K5JT: 'iKifni^ atr ^mr ^slfei ii 

J ^ 

?r *r3!ii ^'UKTSii f^frif^rf^frfsiKT: g^'^T^ ^mrfw i) 



221 

1'sa m wir ^ff f^iTJuisr^A'^ir ^t^^^^? 

^ vvj ^(i^^fgj'r ^w^ wr?T^ ^srizt f^'ftirr w 1 33^?if sq^^ 
Colophon. ^Taj^^w^wT^ gi?rriftiTf^«fMg«T^^«iT^^^''ifc?^r5nw ifTWt^r- 



No. B, 24. 

SAPTAKUMA'RIKA' AVADA'NA alias AHORATRAVRATA- 

NUS'ANSA. 

Substance, very inferior Nepalese paper, 10 x 4 inches. Folia, 34. Lines 
on a page, 10. Extent in slokas, 850. Character, Nagari. Date, Sm. 1885.= 
S^aka, 1750.= Nepalese Era, 949. Appearance, fresh. Verse. Generally correct. 

Description of a fast called Ahoratravrata^ in praise of which a 
story is told of seven Naga damsels who had been cursed to be born as 
univalve shells, s'amhuha. The description was given to Asoka by Upa 
Gupta, who said it had been before related by S'akya himself, who attri- 
buted it to Vasubandhu, a Jina, who had heard it from the ancient 
Buddha Vipasyi. Vasubandhu taught the rite to Indraprishtha, a king 
of Gandhavati, in the Purvavideha country. Although called alioratra, 
or ephemeral, the fast extended actually to two days and two nights. 
The proper place for performing it is the neighbourhood of a sacred pool, 
a river, an ocean, a chaitya, or a temple. On the 13th of the waxing 
moon a temporary room or dharmds' ala has to be erected, duly plastered 
with cow-dung, and decorated with four flags and an awning. On the 



222 

flour of the room three diagrams of Dharmadhatu are to be traced with 
rice-meal of different colours^ and the night is to be passed in a fast. On 
the 14th, at midday, the three jewels are to be worshipped with fivefold 
offerings and appropriate mantras ; the worshipper to break his fast by- 
partaking of simple food in the afternoon. At dusk the place and the 
Chaitya are to be illuminated, and the worship repeated. On the 15th, or 
the fullmoon day, the worship is to be again repeated and the day passed 
in rejoicings with music and singing. 

King Indraprashtha was the first to perform the fast. Having 
observed it, he had the good fortune to rule his kingdom with great ease 
and splendour, and then to enter the house of Jina. On this, Indra and 
other deities came to observe the ceremony of Ahoratravrata. In illustra- 
tion of the merits of the fast, Upagupta relates the following story : 

There was a large tank, named Chaitragarbha, in Magadha, where 
Gandharvas and Rishis used to perform the ceremony of Ahordtravrata. 
Eight* Naga damsels went to them to see the performance. The Rishis 
fell down insensible by inhaling their poisonous breath. After a while, 
however, they regained their senses, and cursed the damsels by saying : 
" Ye shall be born as shells, {sambukas) since you made us senseless by 
your poisonous breath." On hearing the imprecation, the damsels pro- 
pitiated the Rishis, who became sad at heart. 

The curse, however, was irrevocable, and the damsels, turned into 
shells, lived in a pond. After a long while, a fisherman visited the pond, 
and cast his net into the water to catch fish, but instead of fish he got 
only eight univalve shells. He brought the shells home, and gave them 
to his wife. The fisherman, having consumed all the eatables he had in his 
home, went out of the house. His wife, not having any other article of 
food at hand, had to live on these eight shells, which she got boiled. The 
shells were all vivified in her womb. She became pregnant, and brought 
forth eight daughters in due time. When they grew up she sent them 
to market to sell fish. 

One day, on the way, the eldest told to her sisters, " Sisters, on 
account of the great sin we committed in our former life, we have been 
born in a low family ; if we commit the crime of killing animals, 
we shall have again to suffer." On this, they threw all the live 

• The text has the word ashta " eight," and gives the names of the eight in detail, hut 
the name of the work is sapta/eumdri or seven damsels. In the ahseuce of a second MS. to 
compare I cannot reconcile the inconsistency. 



228 

fishes into the water, and purchased some dead fishes instead o£ them, 
and, having sold the latter, gave the price to their mother. On 
another occasion, the fisherman^s wife, having killed some live fishes 
sent her daughters to sell them. On the way, the sisters were surprised 
to see the dead fishes become alive, and threw them into the water. They 
then began to offer up their devotions to Buddha, whose temple was on 
the bank of the pond. Buddha, being propitiated, appeared before them, 
and through his grace they died on the seventh day after his appearance, 
and took their birth as daughters to king Krika, of Benares. Their names 
then were : — The first, Vrati ; the second Dharmavati ■ the third, 
Shubhamanjari ; the fourth, Dhimati ; the fifth Netramanjarf ; the sixth, 
S'rimati; the seventh, Madanajaha ; and the eighth, Vratamfila. Vrati, 
married to king Dharmadaksha, performed, in company of her husband, 
the ceremony of Ahoratravrata, and at last retired to the house of Jina. 

Beginning. ^ f^r km^^t^ i ?fl»i?fa^^ i^i ft^Tgw^srrpii'i i 

End. ^ vwif\ii-*i^4 ^m^jT^mt.iMyi'^^r- ^^Mv. 

Colophon. xT'f ^f iKf^^fTTV^grai ^FfWTf<^T^^t'f ^mi' ii 



No. B, 17. 
S'A'RDU'LAKAENA AVADANA. 

Substance, paper, 10 X 4. Folia, 87. Lines on a page, 10. Character, 
Nagara. Extent in ^^lokas, 1800. Date, Sm. 1886. Appearance, decayed. 
Prose. Incorrect. 

Story of S'ardulakarna, in narrating which opportunity is taken 
to point out in detail the utter fatuity of relying on caste distinctions. 

The scene of the story is laid at Sravasti. When the Lord was once 
sojourning there, in th^garden of Anathapindada, A'nanda, his favourite 
disciple, used daily to go to the city to collect alms. One day, after 



224 

partaking of a repast in the residence of a householder^ when he was 
returning to the hermitage, he felt thirsty. Seeing a girl, named Prakriti, 
the daughter of a Chandali, raising water from a well, he asked her for 
a drink, and was duly served. The girl was smitten by the appearance of 
the hermit, and as he could not be otherwise influenced, she besought 
her mother, who was proficient in charms and incantations, to bewitch 
him by her art. The mother prepared with cowdung, in the middle of 
the courtyard of her house, an altar, lighted a fire therein, and threw into 
it, one by one, 108 arka flowers {Calotropis gigantea), repeating a mantra 
each time. Ananda could not resist the force of this charm, and in the 
evening came to her house, and took his seat on the altar, while Prakriti, 
in delight, was engaged in preparing a bed for him. The conscience of 
Ananda now smote him, and he began to cry, praying that the Lord may 
rescue him from his dangerous position. The Lord, perceiving by his 
miraculous power how his disciple was situated, recited a Buddha mantra, 
which immediately overpowered the incantations of the Chandali, and 
Ananda returned to the hermitage. The Lord, thereupon, taught him the 
potent mantra whereby he could always overcome such evils. 

Matters, however, did not progress so satisfactorily as could be wished. 
The girl, disappointed at night, rose early the next morning, put on her 
finest apparel, and stood on the road by which A'nanda daily went to the 
city for alms. A'nanda came, and she followed him to every house he 
went for alms. This caused a great scandal, and Ananda, followed by the 
girl, ran back to the hermitage, and reported the occurrence to the 
Lord. The Lord was then called upon to exercise diplomacy to save the 
character of his disciple. He said to Prakriti, " you want to marry 
Ananda. Have you got the permission of your parents ? Go, and get 
their permission." This afforded but slight respite, for Prakriti soon 
returned from the city with her parents'" permission. The Lord then said, 
" Should you wish to marry Ananda, you must put on the same kind of 
ochre-coloured vestment which he uses." She agreed, and thereupon her 
head was shaved, she was made to put on ochre -coloured cloth, divested of 
her vicious motives, and had all her former sins removed by the mantra 
called sarvadurgati-sodhana-dharani, the destroyer of all evils. Thus 
did the Lord convert her into a Bhikshuni. 

This conversion created a serious commotion. Raja Prasenajit and 
the Brahmans and Kshatriyas of S'rSvasti were greatly scandalised by 
it, and came to remonstrate with the Lord on his highly improper con- 
duct. The Lord knew their object, and explained the former history of 
Prakyiti by reciting the following story : 



225 

In a forest on the banks of the Ganges there dwelt Trisanku, a Chan- 
dala, who was the chief of ten thousands of his caste men. He had, in 
a former term of existencCj studied the Vedas, the Itihasas, the S^astras 
and other branches of knowledge, and remembered them in his present 
life. He had a son named Sardulakarna, and to him he taught all that he 
remembered of his previous learning. The youth thereby became proficient 
in every accomplishment. Trisaiiku thought of a Brahman, named 
Pushkarasari, who had an only daughter, thoroughly accomplished, and 
in every way worthy of his son. Next morning, followed by a large re- 
tinue, he proceeded to the abode of this Brahman, and was well received; 
but when he made his request his host upbraided him for his presumption 
in asking the hand of a Brahman, girl for a Chandala youth, and this led 
to a long discussion on caste distinctions. 

Trisanku said : " There is a marked distinction between ashes 
and gold, but there is nothing of the kind between a Brahman and a 
person of another caste. A Brahman is not produced like fire by the 
friction of dry wood ; he descends not from the sky, nor from the wind, 
nor does he arise, piercing the earth. The Brahman is brought forth 
from the womb exactly in the same way as a Chandala. When he dies 
he causes impurity exactly as other castes do : there is not the least 
difference in the case. Brahmans, longing for flesh-meat, commit most 
cruel sacrifices. They say that goats and the like, by being sanctifeed by 
mantras, go to heaven after slaughter. If this be the way to heaven, 
why don't they send their fathers, mothers, sisters, and the rest to heaven 
by the same expeditious way ? Brahman, Kshatriya, Vaisya and S^udra are 
mere names, and imply no specific distinctions. All human beings have 
feet, thighs, nails, flesh, sides, and back exactly alike ; there is not the 
slightest difference in any respect, and therefore there cannot be four 
different species. Even as boys, playing on the highway, take a quantity 
of dust, and, dividing it into different parts, call one part water, another 
milk, another curds, another flesh-meat, another ghi, and so on, but the 
dust does not thereby become any of those articles, so Brdhman &c., 
are mere names, and do not imply four distinct species. In animals, like 
the cow, the horse, and the like, there are marked differences in shape, and 
thereby the cow, the horse and the rest constitute distinct species. In the 
same way mangoes, hog-plums (Spondias magnifera), rose-apples, dates 
and the rest belong to different species; but there being no difference of 
shape in Brahmans, Kshatriyas, &c., there can be no difference of 
species. Devas become Brahma;is, Kshatriyas Yakshas, Vaisyas Nagas, 
29 



226 

S'lidras Asuras. Had there been any truth in the doctrine of the o rati 
that Brahmans produce Brahmans, and Vais'yas Vaisyas, there would 
certainly have been some specific marks. Moreover, every member of 
the four castes can attain heaven by the merit of his own actions, and 
there is no let or hindrance with reference to particular castes ; surely 
therefore there are no specific distinctions of castes. Among men those 
who plough paddy-fields, sow seeds, and raise crops are called Kshatriyas. 
Those who, giving up marriage, retire to the wilderness, build huts of 
leaves, and there pass their days in contemplation, are called Brahmans. 
Among Brahmans, those who go to the village and teach mantras are 
called Adhyapakas. Those men who, calculating upon profit, undertake 
commercial transactions, are called Vais'yas. Those who earn their 
livelihood by petty works are called S'udras. Those who feel disposed to 
conduct the work of chariots and of elephants get the name of Matangas. 
Those who plough are called Karshakas. Those who trade are named 
Vaniks. Those who retire from home and accept asceticism are named 
Pravrajitas. Those who by their good conduct gratify people are called 
kings (Raja). In none of these is there any specific organic distinction." 
By these and other arguments he silenced the Brahman, who, thereupon, 
asked him, "Do you know the Savitri (Gayatri)" ? 

Trisanku said, " Yes I do, and also the origin of it. A long time 
ago, a Rishi, named Vasu, married Kapila, the daughter of a Nakshatra. 
By devotion to her he lost his vigour, and to regain it he repeated the 
Savitri: " Bkur ITiuvar yat mvitur na hapilaya ihargo devasya dMmahi." 
The Savitri of the Kshatriyas is : " Om ! jatilastapaso-bJiuta gahanam 
vanamdsritd, 8fc." That of the Vais'ya is " Om cTiittamahi saTiite vaisya 
Jcanyakd, 8fc." That of the S'lidra is " Om ! atapak sutapak jivedaham 
varshasatam pasyedaham s'araddm s'atam." 

The Brahman questioned Tris'anku about the Nakshatras, their 
positions, stars, &c., about the planets, and many recondite questions 
about astrology and interpretations of omens ; to all which the interrogat- 
ed gave very satisfactory replies. The Brahman, thus overcome in every 
way, at last gave away, notwithstanding the opposition of his disciples 
and pupils, his daughter to S'ardulakarna. 

" Now Bhikshus" said the Lord, " he who was Trisa6ku then is 
myself now. My son is S'ardulakarna. This A'nanda, son of Saradvati, 
is the Brahman Pushkarasari, and the daughter of that Brahman is 
Prakriti, the Bhikshuni.'"' 



227 

The work professes to be a part of the Divya Avadana. It was 
translated into Chinese by Tchu-ja-hu, of the Western Tsin dynasty in 265 
A. D. Its Chinese name is She-tau-Jceen-king . M. Burnoaf has givin an 
abstract of the story in his Introduction to Indian Buddhism, pp. 205/. 

Beginning -^ ^at Ks^^r^ 1 1^ ^«iT'!fri'^«%'^ ww^ wjt^ih ■^\^m[ fa^Rr m I 

End. ^^^T'^^I^T'T ^rafl^fT^'^ f«^tT WJt^tT WlfqrlWMffl'^F^Fff I 

Colophon. ■?:fft s[T?Tr*'?T^^T^ f^giT^^rtr^ rf ^fli 1 1 



No. B, 46. 

SAEVATATHAG-ATOSHNESHA-SITATAPATEA, 

ALIAS PE,ATYA:SrGIRA-KALPA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 7i x 3. Folia, 18. Lines on a page, 5. 
Extent in slokas, 200. Character, Newari. Date, N. S. 886. Appearance, 
old. Prose. Incorrect. 

A collection of mantras said to have issued forth from between the 
eyebrows of the Lord when he was sojourning in the heaven of Indra, and 
was beino" worshipped by a large host of Devas, and the merit of wearing 
them, reciting them, or hearing them recited. The mantras ai-e of the 
type of the mystic Vija mantras of the Hindus. 
Beginning. >^ f ^T wJt^t ^rilifl'3Tsi?5ff <T^ I x^ h^jf ^rrw^fgi^ h«^ «Jiwr^ 

^^ifsr ^^fir "31 I T^T «Ji^% ^qF<;fiifiJrnT5if«T*iraai^ifftfrar^r?? 

End. T^fl^T^^ Wi^rTTTWifr^ "g trfsr^'^T: ^i ^ ^^^^rit '?^<J ^f ^iii^- 

Colophon. ^T^QHssw'JTJiti^t^ftfiTfTq'^T srreTqTrfsjffT iTfTJTcEjf^^ fl^if^qr 



228 

No. 
SRAGDHARii-STOTRA. 

Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 8x3 inches. Folia, 12. Lines on 
a page, 8. Extent in ^lokas, 120. Character, Nagara. Date, Sm. 1881. 
Appearance, decayed. Verse. Generally correct. 

A hymn in praise of Arya Tara. By Sarvajna Mitra. The goddess 
appears to hold the same position among the Buddhists as she does 
among the Hindus. The name of the work is due to that of the measure 
in which it is written ; the measure comprises twenty-one syllables to the 
foot, broken into three equal parts by two jaesuras. The author was a 
Buddhist monk of Kashmir. He was renowned for his unbounded charity. 
Having given away everything he possessed, he proceeded to king Vajra- 
mukuta. In the way he met a poor Brahman, who enquired of him the 
way to the home of Sarvajna Mitra. He said, " Have you not heard that 
he haes given away everything he possessed, and is now gone to the king V 
The Brahman, thereupon, heaved deep sighs in utter despair, and shed 
tears. Sarvajna Mitra consoled him, by saying, " Never mind, come along 
with me, and I shall help you." Subsequently he sold his own person for 
its weight in gold to the king, and gave the proceeds to the Brahman. 

Beginning, s^ sr^T wjmsj ^isqftKT^ i 

w'^T qrf T T^^\^ ^tj^^f ^i^tt «-ifrTi«Tif- 

End. 'j^ri? «^^ir^i'Err^'«?^flfsr^% wn^\i -a^j ?l^ 

Colophon. T<5iWffT^T«lT: gJ^TT%^ ift^flTH I 



229 



No. 
SRAGDHARiL-TI'KA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 8 X 3 inches. Folia, 59. Lines on a page, 
5. Extent in ^lokas, 580. Character, Nagara. Date, Sm. 1881. Appearance, 
decayed. Prose. Generally correct. 

A commentary on the hymn noticed under the next preceding No. 
By Jinarakshita, a Bhikshu of the Maha Vihara of Vikramas'ila Deva 
and spiritual guide of the king. 

Beginning, sramm^f sjir^tqgn;! wT^^^inrm ^wrei^ j 

End. f^m^ z^^f ^^^1^ si%fflrt>lBl7m«^1fltTH I 

Colophon. ^1flffJR*i»it^t^jj'^r^^K'k-T:T3iif^iTfi5»rfww i'\faii'cf^?i5fm v- 



No. B, 38. 
S'Rli^GABHERI. 

Substance, KTepalese yellow paper, 14 x 4 inches. Telia, 18. Lines on 
a page, 6. Extent in ^lokas, 540. Character, Newari. Date, ? Appear- 
ance, old. Verse. Incorrect. 

Descriptions of the CJiaityasanvara and of the S'riilgalheri rites. The 
descriptions were given to As'oka by Upagupta, who said they had 
been first narrated by the Lord himself at the request of Sariputra. 
The first rite consists in dedicating one or more model chaityas daily, till 
the number comes up to a hundred thousand. The models may be of cow- 
dung, clay, sandstone, or metal according to the means of the dedicator. 
The direction for this rite had been originally given by Vipas'yi to a 



230 

prince named Pradipaketu. When the above rite is performed for a month 
from the 1st of S'ravana (July- August) ^ with the accompaniment of 
the music from a golden horn and other musical instruments it is called 
S'riftgabheri. 

The origin of the rite is thus described : — In the town of S'asiprabha 
there reigned a king named Sinhaketu. His wife^ Sulakshana, was 
greatly devoted to him, and frequently begged and prayed that he 
should abstain from hunting. The king did not listen to her advice, and 
on his death, was born a buffalo. His wife was born in a Brahman 
family, and, through her previous virtuous deeds, remembered the history 
of her former life. Knowing the buffalo to be her husband, she followed 
him everywhere. Once she prayed to the Lord to retrieve her husband from 
his brutal condition, and the Lord advised, her what to do. One day the 
buffalo was destroyed and eaten up by some wild beasts, and a few bones 
and the horns were all that were left behind. The faithful wife cast the 
bones into the river, brougbt water in the horns to wash the spot where 
the buffalo had fallen, and, washing the spot, buried whatever fragments 
she found and the horns, and erected a chaitya over them with river sand. 
For thirty days successively she worshipped this chaitya with the utmost 
reverence and devotion. On the twenty-first day a crystal chaitya came 
down from heaven, and entered the sandy one. The place became surround- 
ed by a moat and seven successive lines of ramparts. The horns were 
changed into gold. Within this crystal chaitya a chamber became 
manifest, and from the golden horns within it came out a handsome 
young man, Dharmas'ila, who took the woman by the hand, and claimed 
her as his wife. He was subsequently elected by the people king of the 
country, when he assumed the name Bhadras'ringi, and his devoted wife 
was known by the name of Rupavati. 

The work professes to be a chapter of a work named Chitravifis'ati 
Avadana. 
Beginning. -#• sm: =!ft'g5|^^trfi?g=i«l! I >^ ^v. ^JT^Tj^ig i 

^CTJTTi 11^ ^ST W«i: SIT^ SfflTlf^! II 



231 

End. Wfrvmn^r^ ^ c^f^ ^m^f^fr ^ i 

rr^TfiT g^^t ^>^T: «^^T: g^T I 

atnsajT ^wr^i^ f sift w?mH^' II 
Colophon, ^fci ^f^^ft'?!:?qq^K ^^^cqWfiSjT*!^^^^ ^tttht II 



No. B, 29. 
S 'Rli^G ABHEKrVR ATAVADA'NA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 10 x 4| inches. Folia, 19. Lines on a 
page, 10. Extent in slokas, 450. Character, Newari. Date, N. S. 848. 
Ajppearanee, old. Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

An amplified version of the story given in the last preceding 
notice. The work professes to be a part of the Vratavaddna-mala. 

Beginning. # vtw ^a^?iT«f I ^T^rsrftffl^wtr fsr^i^"^ fsnii'iig; i 

M f 

End. ^^T^ ^T^^f% gflfsETTflsig: ^rrq^T*:f^'flir5T! fi4ffi ^qf^'^i^V- 

^ ' -J vJ sj ^ 

Colophon. xTtf gflT^^ifWi^rarn^T^q^aflristirrat 5? ff^^t^sf l^'^T^f gflTs" I 



232 

No. B, 21. 
SUCHANDRA AVADANA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 11^^ x 4 inches. Folia, 15. Lines on a 
page, 7. Extent in slokas, 300. Character, Newari. Date, N. S. 245. 
Appearance, old. Verse. Incorrect. 

A story in praise of the Vasudhara rite. Suchandra, a man of great 
wealth and numerous progeny, was engaged in commerce, and some of his 
children held high offices under government. His youngest son was very 
vicious ; he lost his share of the patrimony by bad speculations in loans, 
and by the advice of a wicked man stole two bricks from a ehaitya, and 
placed them at the entrance of his room. This was followed by fraternal 
feuds, loss of wealth, and total dispersion of the family. Suchandra wished 
to go and see the Lord, but he had nothing at home wherewith to buy fit 
offerings for him. His wife found a bit of iron chain at the mouth of 
a rat-hole. With this he bought a few flowers, and repaired to the Lord. 
The Lord, gratified by his devotion, directed him to perform the Vasu- 
dhara rite, whereby he regained his former wealth and influence, and 
prospered in every way. The rite should be undertaken on the 3rd of 
the wane in the month of Bhadra, or of Magha, and repeated every month 
for a year. The rite consists in bathing in a river, putting on clean 
clothes, filling a pitcher with pure water over which the mantra of Vasu- 
dhara has been repeated, placing the pitcher on hus'a grass spread on a 
pure spot, and then worshipping in the pot the goddess VasudhSra. At 
the same time the mantra of Vasudhara should be worn as an amulet on 
the person, and reverentially repeated many times and duly worshipped 
every morning, noon and evening. The charm begins with the words 
Om ! namo bhagavate vajradkare sagaranirghosha tathdgate, Sfc. 
Beginning. # sffl: ^'^w^tin'ci'si I ^rsti^^^fff '^ f^ifi rrr v^ Mre'i^^i^r I 

H^if^f %^tr siJAqrir fl'^'^qfir: i 

■J 

fl^T^^T fl^i^Rjt fl'?T«TJrT fl'f mr»r! 1 



233 

'^g^mre^^'n ^<mm'. g g^mf?r: ii 

End. S'^T 72=^1%: trf^S^Rffq^Isp^^^Tt^l ^4«jsi^i^f^^nBggq|^5r- 

fsr^isrfwrafiT ^it;^ i 
Colophon. Tfir w^% JZ'^qfrr: ?^% Wt^^rtiWcreslf^gi^f H)ra»rr ^a^iwIW 



No. B, 31. 
SUGATA AVADA'NA. 



Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 13 x 3|- inches. Folia, 54. Lines 
on a page, 6. Extent in ^lokas, 550. Character, Newari. Appearance, old. 
Verse. Incorrect. 

Stories relating to an ancient Buddha named Vasubandhu. 

Contents : (I.) When Lord S'akja SiAha sojourned on the crest of 
a hill named Kanakagiri, he was, one day, seen engaged in the per- 
formance of the Samddhi called Iiohasandarsana or survey of the uni- 
verse, and in course of it a flame issued forth from between his eye- 
brows. This flame enlightened twenty-eight thousand Buddhist sacred 
places, and the inhabitants of hell all came up to behold the wonder. 
Greatly surprised at this, Maitreya enquired of Manjus'ri the cause of it. 
SO 



234 

Manjus'rl replied that in former times there lived a Tathagata, named 
Varaprabha, who first performed this Samddhi, and after it he bestowed 
the perfect Bodhi knowledge to millions, and converted king Ajita and 
his eight sons, and seeing that S'akya now performed the same Samadhi, 
he too will expound the same religion. (II.) After performing the 
Samadhi, S^akya invited Maitreya and related to him the story a king 
named Indraprishtha, who reigned at Gandhavati, in the Uttara Videha 
country. This king once dreamed that Vasiibandhu, a Bodhisattva, was 
seated on a throne in his court, and expounded the Buddha religion. 
Thereupon he invited that saint from the town of Vikrama, in the 
Vihara country. (III.) On the arrival of the saint, the king solicited 
■of him the true means of salvation. The instruction given by the 
saint comprised mercy to creation, abstinence from theft, cruelty, con- 
cupiscence, &c. (IV.) The king then enquired how it was that some 
people .became rich, others poor; some learned, others stupid; some 
healthy, others diseased ; some went to heaven, others to hell ; and so 
forth. The saint replied that these were the results of former works. 
It was through the deserts of former works that beings were born as 
gods, mammals, birds and insects, and experienced the fruits of their 
own actions. Those who, through ignorance, fear, cupidity, or enmity, 
kill animals go to the hell called sanjiva, while those who kill wild 
animals by setting fire to forests repair to the burning hell called Tajpana. 
(V.) On the other hand those who, keeping the three jewels foremost 
before them, sow the seeds of virtue, never sufPer from disease, decay, 
distress, and grief. The three jewels are the ever-felicitous, the unde- 
caying, the all-pervading spiritual home of Jina. On the king enquiring 
how the three jewels could be kept foremost, the saint dilated on the merits 
of establishing Viharas and Chaityas, and consecrating therein the em- 
blems of the jewels. (VI.) He then dwelt upon the characteristics of 
the SaAgha, and on the merit of employing well-born, well-behaved, well- 
disposed, intelligent youths to the service of the Sangha. (VII.) The 
saint then repaired, along with the king, to Benares to establish Vihdi-as 
there. (VIII.) The king invited Bodhisattvas and other saintly person- 
ages to be present at Benares on the occasion of his establishing Viharas. 
(IX.) The reception of the guests at Benares. (X.) The feast given 
to them. (XI.) On the merits of presenting particular articles to Tatha- 
gatas. (XII.) On prayers addressed by the king to the guests, and hia 
return home. 



235 

Beginning-. spFT: 'si^jn^FSf^ i 

ftf ^f«T ^^^5t wssf^r frif\'^- 

fV%T^^ 9«^t^ ti'^s^fi^g »TTg«lT I 

«T«g^^'f STTH ^fllfy ft^'VSlI 9! II 
End. t^T ITimni'^: f%aTi^ fl'tl'CilT: I 

3ia*5§T ir^f %w ^^W^ ^«T3[?IT: II 



236 

No. B, 20. 
SUKHAVATl-VYtHA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 13 x 4 inches. Folia, 37. Lines on a page, 
7. Extent in ^lokas, 500. Character, Newari. Date, ? Appearance, 
old. Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

Description of a transcendentally pure and auspicious region called 
Sukhavati. When the lord was at Gridharakuta hill, near the town of 
Rajagriha, Luanda asked the Lord for an account of the great Tatha" 
gatas who had, in former ages, acquired the most perfect organs. The 
Lord in reply said, one of the earliest was Dipankara, next to him Pra- 
tapavan, next Gandha, and next Lokes'vara. During the ministry of 
the last a Bhikshu, named Dharmakara, expressed a desire that of 
should be a Tathagata in a region where life was long, where there was 
no hell, no suffering, no disease, no ignorance, and no evil of any kind. 
This prayer was fulfilled, he attained perfection, and lived in the region 
of Sukhavatij where the presiding Buddha was Amitabha, so named 
because there was no limit to his effulgence. The region is full of 
gardens, flowers, singing birds, lakes and everything that could make 
up the beau-ideal of perfection in the estimation of the Buddhists. 

This work was translated into Chinese by Hiouen Thsang of tbe 
Tang dynasty ; its Chinese name is Tching-tsan-seng-t'o-fo-shih-shau- 
king. Beal^s Catalogue, p. 24. 

Beginning. ^ srn: ^l^t^l^^timg'WKf! i 



237 
End. ?;^i?ti'^3i^T^TTW5iT ^laitr tTfv^=#r fl'?i^w ^i^^TRT*!'?: ^r "^ 

■3 



No. B, . 
SUMAQADHA AVADANA. 

Substance, palm leaves, 12 x If inclies. Folia, 22, Lines on a page, 6. 
Extent in slokas, 350. Character, Newari. Date, ? Appearance, old. 
Prose. Incorrect. 

Story of SumSgadhdj daughter o£ Anathapindada, a rich banker 
of S'ravasti. The young lady had been given in marriage to Vrisha- 
bhadatta, son of Sus'ila, a banker and rich householder of Pundra- 
vardhana. When dwelling with her husband^ she was once asked if she 
knew of any very great teacher in existence. She said, " Yes, T know 
the Lord Buddha, bright as the champaka flower, and of profound 
learning ; he is now dwelling in my father's garden, and is the greatest on 
earth." She then spoke in high praise of the saint. Vrishabhadatta asked 
her, " Can you show him to me ?" Sumdgadha replied, " Collect, sir, the 
materials for a good feast, and I shall show him to you.''^ 

She then repaired to the top of the house, drew a circle on the 
roof towards the side where the Lord was, and, respectfully offering a 
handful of flowers and a little water, said, " thou most merciful, deign 
to favour me with thy presence \" 

Through the miraculous influence of the Lord, the flowers and the 
water rose high in mid-air, and like a flight of geese passed on west- 
wards for six hundred and forty miles and fell at the feet of the Lord 
at the Jetavana garden. The Lord received them very graciously. On the 
following morning, along with Ajnatakaundinya, S'ariputra, Maugha, 
Mahdkas'yapa and others among his chief disciples, the Lord miraculously 



238 

passed on through the sky^ and appeared at midday before his devotee. 
Sumagadha worshipped him with every mark of respect and veneration, 
and entertained his retinue with lavish hospitality. The people of Pundra- 
vardhana crowded round the Lord, and received benedictions and advice. 
One of the congregation asked how it was that the Lord was so merciful 
to Sumagadha ? and in reply the Lord said, this is not the only occasion 
when he had been so, he had been so before. In the 20th Kalpa, when men 
lived for a thousand years, Kas'yapa was the Buddha. He dwelt in the 
Deer Park at Benares. At that time Kriki was the reigning king, whose 
daughter was named Kanchanamala. The king dreamt some unpleasant 
dreams, and the expounders of dreams in his court recommended that the 
flesh of the most prized being on the earth should be given away in a feast 
to avert the consequences of the evil dreams. This implied Kanchana- 
mala, who was the most beloved being in the kingdom, and the king 
could not listen to such a proposition. " Rather" said he, " that I 
should die immediately, or lose all my kingdom, than allow any evil to 
befal my dearest daughter." The king's grief brought the daughter 
to the place, and she advised that her father should abide by the advice 
of the Lord Kas'yapa. The king did so, taking Kanchanamala with him. 
Kas'yapa expounded the dreams, and assured him and his daughter that 
no evil would befal them. 

Tho Bhikshus then enquired what was the cause of Kanchanamala's 
having been born with a chaplet of jewels on her head ? Thereupon 
the Lord said in a former life the lady, born as a poor woman, had 
respectfully offered an iron garland to the Chaitya of a Pratyeka 
Buddha, and through the merit thereof had been blessed to be born with 
a chaplet, and she who was the poor woman, was born as Kanchanamala, 
and was now born as Sumagadha. 

A different version of this story occurs in the Avadana-sataka, 
ante, p. 73. 

Beginning. # it^t ^^m I ^^l flJT^Tsr ^mm ^ifsTrrs ifsi^T KT3I»fl-^«iTnT§i%- 
■^ + + + + 'S^i^^i'^=^f^3'<:n'tT'C>riJ?[f^aT ^tt hji^t^ vit^t 

End. T^iT^fjiRTsiT'fiTrsrt^ '^ ffl'gtr jtiftrgf^r: gi ^ g^t^irt t^ ^t^- 



239 

No. B, . 
SUPRABHATA STAVA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 10 x 4 inches. Folia, 88. Lines on a pagg, 
7. Extent in ^lokas, 700. Date, N. S. 932. Appearance, old. Verae. In- 
correct. 

A collection of 49 tymns by different authors in praise of Sakya 
and other Buddhas and saints. The hymns are addressed to — 1, Das'abala ; 
2, S'akya as bhattaraka, by Yasodhara ; 3, the mercy of Aralokitesvara ; 
4<, Dharmadhatu ; 5, Mahabuddha ; 6, on the feet of Aralokitesvara ; 7, 
Dharmadhatu, in another measure; 8, Vagis'vara; 9 Buddha; 10, the 
ten guardians of quarters; 11 Buddha, in another measure; 12, Aralo- 
kites'vara, by Raja Pratapamalla ; 13, Chaitya of Dharmadhatu; 14, 
Sarada; 1 5, Tor redemption from hell ; 16, Vajramahakala; 17, Devas' 
100 names; 18, Five Tathagatas; 19, Vajrayogini ; 20, Vani; 21, 
Avalokites'vara's rosary; 22, Prayer to Avalokites'vara ; 23, Ananta, 
the Naga king; 24, Lokes'vara; 25, Avalokites'vara, by Chandradanta ; 
26, Ditto, by Chandrika Bhikshuni ; 27, Mahabuddha, in another mea- 
sure; 28, Dharmadhatu; 29, Mangala; 30, Vasuki, the Naga king; 
31, Lokes'vara; 32, Ditto for redemption from hell; 33, Ditto; 34, 
Avalokitesvara as the dweller of Patala; 35, Buddha on the discom- 
fiture of Mara; 36, Names of the Nakshatras; 37, Ditto of the signs 
of the Zodiac; 38, Ditto of the Yatras; 39, Ditto of Yogas; 40, 
Ditto of the six Paramitas; 41, Sixteen stanzas on Adhyesvara; 42, 
14 stanzas on the diagram called Vajradhatu ; 43, 25 ditto on Dharma- 
dhatu ; 44, 10 ditto on the knowledge of the original ; 45, 44 ditto 
on perception ; 49, 34 ditto on affection ; 47, 25 ditto on gratitude ; 48, 
5 ditto on the 5 Tathdgatas ; 49, Verses addressed by S'akya to Man- 
jus 'ri. 
Beginning. •§• ifli ^^'Sf I •i' iwt^^btsj i ^ fS'i ^niv I 

End. ^fs.'^^ iRfsisi S5«m siwicr ii ^ ii 



240 

No. B, . 
StRYAPRAJNAPTl-TlKA'. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 10 X 4 inches. Folia, 223. Lines on a 
page, 15. Extent in ^lokas, 5,000. Character, Nagara. Date, ? Appear- 
ance, old. Prose. Generally correct. 

A commentary on a work on the motions of the sun and the 
moon, on the increase and decrease of the durations of days and nights, 
and on other astronomical phenomena. By Malayagiri. 

Beginning. ^ «Th: gs^^n? I 

^^\ jKT ftwiffigr «si%<TT •?:^cftf^^r: ii >? ii 
5f^f?r fspr^i'^JrflTiiflfl'gTTrfiw ^^^fWf% i 
fsi^S'^Tf^ ^«^ri^ ^«n(Rr^«-g= ^ws^ ii ^ ii 

End. xTn ^^^^■^TJ\fk^^x.^rt\v^ ^i,^mT^<^^m f^'Jlffnf^ siraH gwTTi I 

f^I^lf^rf flfllW^ tt f%^T«fIHl^t 11 », II 

«i?'^sripn^s«fq#*5r T + + f^r: ii i; n 
^jga-afa fimj ^fkiw^':! f^?=«ifrT fi?i^i 



241 

No. B. 9. 
SUVAENA-PRABHASA. 

Substance, paper, 15^ x 3^ inches. Tolia, 84. Lines in each page, 6. 
Date, ? Extent in ^lokas, 1,845. Character, Newari. Appearance, old. 
Incorrect. Prose and verse. 

The philosophy of Nihilism developed in the course of describing 
the merits of a certain mystic formula named Suvarna-prabhasottama. The 
codex is incomplete, and comprises only the first twenty chapters, each of 
which is called a parivarta. The work was translated into the Chinese 
language by Dharmatatsin of the northern Liang dynasty (circa, 502 — - 
565 A. D.), and published under the name of Kin-kwong-ming-king. 
The Chinese have also an abstract of this work in two volumes under the 
name of Kin-kwong-ming-wan-ku. (Beal's TripithaJca, pp. 15 at 99.) 

Contents, I. — Once on a time the Lord was residing on the Gridhra- 
kuta hill, when Lakshmi, Sarasvati and other goddesses sat around him. 
Many Devas, Nagas, Yakshas, and Rakshasas were also present. The Lord 
was contemplating on the essence of religion (^'H'^lTg'), which is perceptible 
only to the profoundest of Buddhas. Ananda asked him as to what were 
the religious duties of Bodhisattva congregations. The Lord said, " whoever 
hears, preaches, sympathises with, or honours the great sutra Suvarnapra- 
bhasottama, obtains the substance of all Samadhi residing in the breasts 
of the purest of Bodhisattvas, and is followed and protected by the gods 
with great attention." He then, by way of enumerating the benefits to 
be derived from the mantra, gave a summary of the work under notice. 

II. — When the Lord was on the aforesaid hill, Ruchiraketu, a Bodhi- 
sattva, was at Rajgriha. He had worshipped millions over millions of 
Buddhas. The germ of everything good was ingrained in his soul, and 
he had a thorough knowledge of all the doings of ancient Buddhas. 
All of a sudden a strange thought crossed his mind—" How is it," 
thought he, " that S akya Muni should live for eighty years only 7" 
Thus musing he was startled at the sudden transformation of his cell 
into a splendid drawing-room studded with gorgeous gems of different 
colours. Four jewelled thrones were seen on the four sides of the room, 
with four great Buddhas seated on them. High on the eastern throne 
sat Akshobhya; on the southern Ratnaketu ; on the western Amitayuh ; 
and on the northern Dundubhis'vara. Other Tathagatas, too, were there. 
31 



242 

The brilliancy of tteir persons illaminated the whole city of Rajagriha, 
and extended even to the loftiest of the three thousand great regions. 
Now the sight of the blind was restored ; the deaf gained the power of 
hearing ; memory was restored to those that had lost the balance of 
their mind. Astonished at this transformation, Ruchiraketu, saluated 
his celestial guests, but still remained musing on the short span of S'akya 
Muni^s life. The Buddhas, perceiving his anxiety, addressed him in the 
following manner, : " O thou of noble birth, do not think that there is 
any one under the sun, who can measure the length of S'akya Muni's life. 
We know of no such person. It is easier to count the individual 
drops which fill the ocean, than to measure the long period of his 
existence. No one can form an idea of the period of a Jina's life." 

Then Devaputras of all conceivable forms, Yakshas, Nagas, Gan- 
■dharbas, and Brahmanas, such as Kaundilya and others, made their 
appearance in the assembly. They had heard the sound of S^akya 
Muni's great Nirvana, Kaundilya fell at the Lord's feet, and asked of 
him a boon. The Lord remained silent. Then a scion of the race of 
Litsa, Sarvasattvapriyadarshana by name, with a presence of mind mira- 
oulously obtained, answered for the Lord. He told Kaundilya that he 
was authorised by the Lord to grant him any boon that may be asked. 
Kaundilya asked for a very small fraction of the elements of which the 
Lord's body was composed, to the extent even of a mustard seed, in order 
that he might worship it when the Lord would be away, and, thereby 
obtain the lordship of heaven. He said he knew that the Suvarna-prabhasa 
Sutra would ensure that ; but it was extremely diificult even for the 
S'ravakas and Pratyeka Buddhas to learn it, and so there was no easy 
method of obtaining the sovereignty of heaven, except the worship of the 
lord's elements. The Litsakumara replied to him in the following terms : 
*' The smallest fraction of the Lord's elements, even to the extent of a 
mustard seed, would be recreated at a time when flowers of their own 
accord would cross the stream of the Ganges, when crows would grow 
red and cuckoos white, when the blackberry would grow to the size of 
a palm fruit, and date trees would bear the blossoms of mangoes." 
Ruchiraketu and the congregation were glad to perceive from this 
that the duration of S'dkya Munis' life was immeasurable. 

III. — Ruchiraketu dreamt a dream. He saw a kettle-drum made of 
gold, and bright as the sun, and assemblages of numberless Tathagatas 
and a Brahmana sounding it. He heard the gath^ they were chanting 



243 

in harmony with the sound o£ the drum. Awakening from his sleep 
Ruchiraketu proceeded to the lord at the Vulture peak and prayed. 

IV. — The prayer of Ruehiraketu was as follows : 

" Let the drum of Suvarna-prabhasa scare away the mundane pains 
of all sorts from the three thousand regions ! May the people of this 
world be relieved from pains arising from vice, as well as those who- 
dwell in the region of Yama ! May they also be relieved from penury !" 

V. — The Lord related an anecdote to the family divinity (Kuladevata), 
of Bodhisattvas. He said, there lived in former days a king named 
Bhujendra, who prayed all the Tathagatas present, past and future, in the 
following manner : " I salute the Jinas ; I shall worship the Jiua-sangha ; 
I shall worship the tranquil, the pacified, the pure^ the great Muni, radiant 
with the lustre of gold." 

VI. — The Lord continued, " The principles of the absolute negation 
of existence have been explained at length in various Sutras. They are, 
as a matter of policy, now published in an abridged form, so that all 
creatures may learn how the body is nothing more than a deserted village. 
I now instruct you in the means of acquiring the knowledge of Nihility. 
The senses are like theivesin a battle-field. They know not each other, 
though they are in the same village. The sense of vision is running 
after form alone, that of audition after sound, that of smell after smell, of 
taste after taste, and of touch after touch. The fickle mind busies itself 
only with enjoyable objects. The mind, dwelling on the senses which are 
like theives in a battle-field, is never after the deserted village. The 
human body to which the senses adhere is insentient — unsubstantial. It 
owes its origin to the residua of former perceptions. This material 
frame which creatures obtain in consequence of their doings in former 
existences is full of sputum, urine, fseces and worms. It is thrown away 
as a piece of wood at the end of life. Nonentity is the origin of every- 
thing. All animals and all the attributes of things have their origin 
in perception, through Avidya or false notions. These attributes are 
sometimes existent, and sometimes non-existent. Therefore it is my 
opinion that these attributes are founded on deceptive perception. Eend 
asunder, O Bhikshus, with the sword of true knowledge, the feeling, the 
six senses, the form, the name, the knowledge and notion, and hold 
fast the attribute of Bodhi which is grand non-existence." 

YII, The Lord explained in the course of his conversation with 

Vais'rava^a, Dhfitarashtra, Virudhaka, and Virupaksha, the four great 



244 

Maharajas, the merits of hearing, reading, and bearing on the person the 
great Sutra Suvarna-prabhasa. 

VIII. — The goddess Sarasvati, covering one of her shoulders with 
her outer garment, and placing her right knee on the ground, with folded 
hands asked the Lord^s permission to wind up the net of illusions, spread 
round the chanter of the sutra (Dharmmabhanaka), to grant him the 
Dharani, and to show him the light of true knowledge. " I shall," said 
she, "restore the words or consonants that may have dropped from the 
great Sutra. I shall grant him the Dharani that his memory may not fail. 
I shall teach him the mode of holy bathing which will enable the great 
Sutra to endure for a long time on earth, sowing the seeds of immense 
good, which will enable numberless creatures to cultivate their intellect, to 
learn various S'astras, and to acquire immense merit." The ritual of the 
bathing is thus given. Orris root, yellow orpiment, Trigonella corniculata, 
Sirisha, and Accacia suma should be pounded when the Pushya asterism is 
on the ascendant, and a mystic formula is to be repeated a hundred times 
during the operation. Then a circle is to be drawn with cowdung, and 
the powder above described, with pearls, flowers and honey, is to be placed 
in it in a golden vessel. Pour righteous men and girls with suitable 
decorations are to be employed on the spot. The fume of fragrant 
resins and the consort of five musical instruments are indispensable 
to the ceremony. The golden vessel is to be decorated with parasols, 
standards and flags. Its boundaries are to be set by the recitation of 
the mantra Alee nayane hili Mli gile kkile svdha. Then the votary is 
to bathe, believing in the Lord, and chanting the following mantra : 
Sugate bigate Vigatavati, &c. " When a reciter, or hearer, or a writer of 
the Suvarna-prabhasa will have bathed in the aforesaid manner, I shall," 
said the goddess, " for his good remain with the Devas in the sky, and 
sweep away all sorts of diseases and distempers from his neighbourhood." 
So saying the goddess sat aside. The Lord praised her determination, 
and Kaundilya extolled her good intentions. 

IX. — Mahadevi saluted the lord, and said, " I shall also, my Lord, 
serve such a Bhikshu. He shall be supplied with beds, cushions, vest- 
ments and alms-bowls. Those who will listen to the great Sutra will 
rjmain in the enjoyment of terrestrial and celestial happiness for millions 
and millions of kalpas. Wherever Ratna-kusumagunasdgara-vaiddryya- 
kanaka giri-suvarna-kanchana-prabhasa-s'ri, a Tathagata, went, and 
wherever he cast his eyes, there all creatures obtained affluence at my- 



245 

hands. He shall he worshipped. I shall, by the power of the great 
mantra Suvarna-prabhdsa, increase the wealth of those that read it. 
Therefore those who desire wealth, should remember the following 
mantra — Pratipurnavare samantagate, &c. ; and prosperity wiU certainly 
present herself at the instant when in a vihara, or a forest, cushions, 
aromaties, flowers, &c., are placed iu the midst of a circle made of cow- 
dung to his honour. 

X. — Mantras for the adoration of Tathagatas. 
XI. — Dridha, the presiding goddess of the earth, then offered to 
make the country prosperous in which the great mantra would be either 
known or preached. The Lord was very glad. He said " Any creature 
who would hear a line, nay a word, of the great mantra shall, after death, 
he born in the Trayastrifis'a and other celestial regions. 

XII. — Sanjaya, the commander-in-chief of the Yakshas, who had 
twenty-eight great leaders under him, then offered to protect any one 
who would learn, or even hear one verse, nay one hemistich, of the great 
mantra Suvarna-prabhasa. He offered not only to protect him, but also 
to make him prosperous. 

XIII. — When the Lord was on the Gridhrakuta hill, Baladaketu 
asked his son Ruchiraketu, after he was anointed king, " do you know 
tbe science of government known as Devendrasamaya 7" Then, without 
waiting for a reply, he proceeded, saying, " I learnt it from my father 
Varendra. Brahmendra first promulgated it on the mount Vajraprakara. 
Those kings are partial incarnations of the thirty-three Devarajas who 
protect the good and punish the vicious, and thereby establish virtue 
and destroy sin. No king should overlook crime, as such conduct is 
certain to increase vice, produce fraud and dissension, and court invasions 
from foreign powers. No king should displease the gods, for when the 
wods are angry, epidemics, bereavements, and invasions are sure to 
follow. Kings should be impartial, for if they have a predilection for 
sin, many will follow their example, cheating and fraud will increase, 
and the kings will be doomed to perdition. Therefore, my son, govern 
the kingdom according to the rules of the Devendra-samayaraja 
Dharma." The principles of good government are detailed at consider- 
able length. 

XIV. Susambhava was a king when Ratnas'ikha was the Lord of 

the earth. His capital was Jinendraghosha. Once he saw in a dream 
Eatnochchaya, a reciter of religion, reciting the great Sdtra, He awoke, 



b 



246 

went in searcli of him, and found him repeating the great mantra in 
his house. The king heard it, and was purified. 

XV. — Whenever a householder, or a woman of family, may be 
desirous of obtaining the knowledge of Buddhas, past, present and future, 
and of worshipping the Lord, he or she should hear and preach the 
great mantra Suvarna-prabhasa. 

XVI. — Bodhisattva-samuchehaya, a Kuladevata, asked the Lord why 
the ten thousand Devaputras headed by Jvalanananta were instructed by 
the Lord in the Bodhi knowledge immediately on their arrival at the 
monastery from the Trayastrinsa heaven ? Three of these obtained the 
knowledge of perfect Bodhi. In one of the innumerable past kalpas, a good 
man named Euchiraketu flourished in the region named Suvarnaprabhasita, 
and there obtained perfect knowledge. Suvarnaratnakarachhatrakuta and 
Suvariiajambudhvaja-kanchanabha flourished in succession in the region 
called Virajadhvaja. They preached and established the good religion in 
that region. After the demise of the last, a young man, named Rupyaketu, 
obtained the knowledge. But none of these Devaputras ever renounced 
the world, nor were they proficient in the six paramitas, how was it then 
that they were able to acquire the knowledge ? The Lord said they were 
votaries of Suvarna-prabhasa, and that was the secret of their success. 

XVII. — In one of the innumerable past kalpas a Tathagata, named 
Ratnas'ikha, was born. After his demise, when the good religion was 
renounced by men, there was born a king, named Sures'varaprabha. He 
had a banker named Jatindhara, a man well versed in the knowledge of 
the pulse and of all the branches of the science of medicine. He had 
a son named Jalavahana, who was very handsome and accomplished. 
During the reign of the irreligious king Sures'varaprabha his subjects 
were afilicted with various diseases. The only medical assistance pro- 
curable was from Jatindhara, who was extremely old, blind, and unable 
to move a step without support. Jalavahana was deeply afilicted by 
the sufferings of these men. He learned the science of medicine from his 
father, and then cured his neighbours of their disorders. 

XVIII. — Jalavdhana had two sons, JalSmbara and Jalagarbha, 
by his only wife Jalambugarbha. When he was passing in company 
with his sons by a tank inhabited by ten thousand fishes, it was on the 
point of being dried up. The presiding deity of the tank half dis- 
covering herself before the physician, implored his assistance to protect 
the lives of the fishes. Jalavahana, finding no water in the vicinity, 



247 

plucked leaves and brancheSj and threw them on the water, so that 
the small quantity of water in it may be protected from the scorching 
heat of the sun. He found at a great distance a river named Jalagama ; 
but he was sorely distressed for want of means to convey the water. 
At last he succeeded in procuring twenty elephants from the king 
Sures'varaprabha. By the help of these elephants he filled the tank 
with water, and supplied the fishes with plenty of food. When the fishes 
were made all comfortable, Jalavahana, standing knee deep in the water, 
offered a prayer to the Lord, and begged that whoever hears the Lord's 
name at the time of death may be born in the Trayastrinsa heaven. 
With this prayer he repeated the mantra — Namastasmai bhagavate 
ratna-sikhine, &c. He then taught the fishes some of the most abstruse 
doctrines of the Buddhist religion, and returned home. The fishes died 
that very night, and were born in the aforesaid heaven. Sures'varaprabha, 
in one of his subsequent existences was Dandapani, Jatindhara was S'uddho- 
dana, Jalambugarbha was Gopa, Jalavahana was the Lord himself, 
Jaldmbara and Jalagarbha were Rahula and Ananda. The ten thousand 
Devaputras with Jvalanananta for their chief, who were blessed with the 
Sambodhi knowledge, were the fishes that had heard the name of the 
Lord Ratnas'lkhi from the Lord, and the divinity of the waters was the 
goddess Bodhisattva Samuchchaya, at whose request the Lord gave the 
above explanations. 

XIX. — A Bodhisattva should sacrifice his own body for the good 
of others. The Lord in the course of his perambulation through the 
country of the Panchalas, entered a forest. He sat upon a grass plot, 
and struck the earth with the palms of his hands and the soles of his feet. 
Thereupon a great stupa made of gold, rubies, sapphires and precious 
stones rose like an aparition. The Lord ordered Ananda to open the 
doors of the stupa. Ananda opened them, and found bones covered over 
with jems. The Bhikshus honoured them with salutation at the command 
of the Lord, and then the Lord, at the request of Ananda, gave the 
following history of the holy bones. "There lived formerly a king 
named Maharatha. He had three sons, Mahapranada, Mahadeva and 
Mahasattvavan. The king went to the forest. Rambling about his sons 
chanced to come to a secluded part of the forest. There they found a 
tigress who had by her side good looking cubs about seven or eight days 
old, but she looked sorely distressed for want of food, for she seemed to 
have had none since their birth. Mahadeva asked, " who is there that 



248 

can sacrifice his ownself for this poor tigress, so famished, and in so much 
distress." 

Mahasattvaran replied, " It is indeed difficult for us, self-seeking, 
narrow-minded mortals, to sacrifice ourselves for the good of others ; 
but to great minds who are bent upon doing good to others at any risk, 
it is a task of no great difficulty." So saying he thought within himself 
that a better opportunity for offering his body, so full of impurities, in the 
cause of others, might not arrive in the course of his life. So musing 
he bade adieu to his brothers, and offered his body to the tigress. His 
mind was full of hope. He thought he would obtain Bodhi knowledge, 
have sympathy for all, and prove the means of saving millions from 
dangers of the mundane life. The tigress recognised a great Bodhi- 
sattva in him, and did not touch his body. The Bodhisatva thought 
the tigress was too weak to kill him, and so, cutting his own throat 
with a piece of bamboo, fell before her. She despatched his flesh and 
blood almost in no time. The princes were surprised at the spirit of 
self-sacrifice that actuated their brother, and went admiring home to tell 
the mournful news to their father. The whole royal family was in mourn- 
ing, and came to the spot where lay the earthly remains of the magnani- 
mous soul. After loud lamentations, the king caused the bones to be buried 
in golden boxes, and raised a stiipa upon them. 

" I am, Ananda, the prince Mahasattvavan. I obtained by means 
of these bones the great Bodhi knowledge which nothing can equal.^' 

XX. — Then a large number of Bodhisattvas, with folded hands, 
praised Suvarna-ratnakara-chhatraketu in the following words : " Thou 
hast, O Lord, sacrificed thy body which was more brilliant than gold. 
Thy limbs are shining gold. Thou art as it were a golden mountain." 
Then Eruchiraketu praised the Lord in the following terms : " Thou art 
the true one, great Muni. Thou hast on thee the signs of a hundred 
merits. Thou hast a thousand beauties. Thou art adorned with various 
accomplishments, &c., &c. 

XXI. — This chapter opens with an address by a Kuladevata, but 
the concluding part of it is wanting. 

Beginning. \^ sw: ^sl^^trfWH^w I sth: ^ftwu^rsj ^^^g^TqiKf^rTT^ I »t^«it, 
^fir ^f<r JifJT f^oHi ^T'^r i ^ »Ti,qffgi5r gnq ti^^ ff^urar 



249 

End. ^«r wJi^isTT^Ti^r^f ^u^tntr^fT I wi^ m's f ^^^^ fimj ^^rft? 



No. B. 19. 
SVAYAMBHTJ-PURANA. 



Substance, paper, 17 X 4| inches. Folia, 163. Lines on each page, 8. 
Extent in ^lokas, 5,055. Character, Newari. Date, ? Apparently old. 
Verse. Incorrect. 

A poetical account of the manifestation of Svayambhu or Adi 
Buddha in Nepal, and of the origin of that country. The work belongs 
to the class called Vyakarana or descriptive, and is written principally in 
the Anushtup metre, as Puranas usually are. There seem to exist, or to 
have existed, two recensions of the work, one an abridgment {laghu), and 
the other the full or elaborated one {vrihat) . The codex under notice 
contains the latter. It is divided into eight chapters, and extends to five 
thousand s'lokas. Its author is Manjus'ri, who lived in the early part 
of the 10th century. In every detail the work is a counterpart of the 
Hindu Mahatmyas, of which so many are affiliated to the Hindu Puranas, 
and, like them, is strictly local in character, being unknown beyond the 
limits of Nepal. According to Hodgson the work has the alternative 
name of Sambhu Purana. It appears not to have been translated into 
the Chinese language. 

Contents : Chapter I. — The scene is laid in the Bodhimandapa at 
Buddha Gaya, and the principal interlocutors are the Bodhisattvas Jayas'rl 
and Jines'vari. The latter, desirous of attaining the Bodhisamvara (a 
religious observance leading to Bodhi knowledge), asks the former as to the 
best means for its attainment. The former advises him to have recourse 
32 



250 

to the Poshadha ceremony,* which should be performed in a place of pil- 
grimage, in a Vihara, in the temple of Sugata, in a chaitya, or in any 
place honoured with the image of a Buddha. " But the best place for its 
performance/' says he, " is Svayambhu-kshetra, where its performance is 
invariably attended with the best results." Questioned about the origin 
of the place Jayas'ri relates what, he said, he had heard on the subject as 
related by Upagupta to As'oka. According to this account this sacred 
place is situated on the crest of a hill called Gosringa. In the Satya 
Yuga it was called Padmagiri, on account of its have borne five lotuses 
made of jewels. In the Treta age it was called Vajrakuta, because it was 
the abode of holiness. In the Dvapara epoch it was called Gos'ringa, 
because it had the appearance of a bulFs horn. In the present Kali age 
it is called Gopuchchha, because it is long like a cow's tail. Svayambhu 
is kept concealed under stones, in order that bad men in this sinful 
age may not destroy the pure element of religion. A chaitya has been 
raised over the place where he lies hidden. 

Once on a time S'akya Muni, after showing various miracles to all 
creatures at Jetavana, went to the mountain of Svayambhu. Devas, Gand- 
Larvas, Yakshas, etc. came to welcome him. They honoured him with 
profuse worship. He saw Svayambhu and the chaitya over it studded with 
gems, and having a golden wheel attached. Maitreya questioned him about 
the origin of Svayambhu. In reply, the Lord told him that he was, in 
the Bhadra Kalpa, when the life of men lasted for eighty thousand years, 
born as Satyadharma, the son of Bandhumi,n, the king of Bandhumati, 
His mother obtained Buddhahood. He became a disciple of Vipas'yi. 
who used to live under a Patala tree. There was at that time a large 
square lake measuring 7 croshas, and named Kalihrada. The author 
then gives a long account of the merits of this lake. 

Chaptbe II. — After the emancipation of Lord Vipas'yi there was 
a king named Aruna, in the city of the same name. His son S'ikhi ob- 
tained Buddhahood, and the Lord was his disciple under the name of 
Kshemaraja. It was at that time that a lotus was found to spring up 
in the Kalihrada. It was as large as the wheel of a chariot. It had 
ten thousand golden petals. It had diamonds above, pearls below, and 
rubies in the middle- Its pollen consisted of jewels. Its seed-lobes 
were gold, and stalks lapis-lazuli. In its centre sat a crystal figure, one 
cubit high. That figure was Svayambhu. 

* Cf. ante, p. 111. 



251 

III. — In answer to the question of Maitreya as to the period when 
Kallhrada dried up and became dry land, the Lord said, " After the 
Nirvana of Lord S'ikhi, when man^s Ufe extended to sixty thousand years, 
there was a celebrated king. His son Vis'vabhu performed a great Samadhi 
under a S'ala tree. He obtained Bodhi knowledge. He had a disciple in 
Parvata, a celebrated king. Lord Vis'vabhu, in company with Parvata and 
all his disciples, came to visit the shrine of Svayambhu. At this time there 
arrived Manjudeva, the king of the mount Manjus'ri in China, with two of 
his wives, Varada and Mokshada. The mount Manjus'ri was anciently 
known as Panchas'irsha, from its having had five peaks made of diamonds, 
sapphires, emeralds, rubies and lapis-lazuli respectively. Manj udeva, finding 
the tank full of monstrous aquatic animals, and the temple of Svayambhu 
almost inaccessible, opened with his sword many of the valleys on the 
southern side of the lake. He opened the valleys of Kapotala, Gandhavati, 
Mrigasthali, Gokarna, Varaya, and Indravati in succession. The waters 
of the lake rushed through these openings, leaving dry land at the 
bottom. Manjus'ri excavated a lake at the south of Gandhavati, and 
the side of Kalihrada was made into a mountain by throwing mud 
on it. He then excavated on the top of the mountain a lake named 
Padmagiri. Its site is called Upaehhanda, which is one of the ten 
most sacred Pithas. It has a temple of the goddess Khaganana. 

IV. — In the next kalpa, when man's life extended to four thousand 
years, after the Nirvana of Lord Vis'vabhu, a Brahmana, named Kra- 
kuchchhanda, was born in the city of Kshemavati. He performed 
austerities on a grass plot under a s'irfsha tree [Acacia sirisa), and ob- 
tained Bodhi knowledge. The Lord was one of his disciples under the 
name of Jyotihpala. Krakuchchhanda preached the good religion to all 
creatures. He remained for some time in Padmagiri, in Nepal, and 
then proceeded with all his disciples to the inaccessible peak of the 
S'ankhagiri. In one of the largest of its caves he preached the good 
rehgion. He found that a number of Brahmanas, with Gunadhvaja for 
their chief, a number of Kshatriyas with Abhayandada for their chief, 
and many Vais'yas and S'udras, eager to obtain the Bodhi knowledge. 
After their heads had been shaved and nails pared, he made them enter 
the Pravraya. To them the Lord pointed out the rules of Poshadha- 
vrata. The votary should every day implore the protection of the three 
jewels Buddhamandala, Dharmamandala, and Sanghamandala. He 
should salute his spiritual guide, and honour the Buddhas in aU the ten 



252 

quarters. The acceptance of anything not g'lwen, conduct contrary to 
the rules of Brahmdcharya, drinking, dancing, singing, flower wreaths, 
perfume, unguents, ornaments of gold and silver, high bedsteads, and 
untimely meals are forbidden to a Bhikshu when engaged in this rite. 
Incontinence is specially reprehensible. A Bhikshu who fails in the 
observance of these rules is doomed to perdition. If he succeeds in their 
observance, he obtains the five experiences, viz., divine vision, divine 
audition, the knowledge of other's thoughts, remembrance of previous 
existences^ and the power of working miracles. Then he preached the 
thirty- seven virtues. These are, four causes of memory, four Samprahan- 
kas, four points of miracle, five senses, five strengths, seven accessories 
to Bodhi, and eight secondary means. 

The Lord then expounded the 27 virtues relating to Pukodhi. 
These are : 1st, The four causes of memory including the causes of 
the memory of matter, of feeling, of mind, and religion. 2nd, The four 
Samprahanakas, including the protection of merit already produced, pro- 
duction of new merits, destruction of prosperity, and the production of 
prosperity. 3rd, The four miraculous powers, including the superhuman 
power in meditation, in cogitation, in the settlement of points in dispute, 
and in strenuous exertion. 4th, The five senses including reverence, wisdom, 
concentration of mind, memory, and strenuous exertion. 5th, The five 
strengths including the power to emancipate, to protect, to meditate, to 
pardon, and to know. 6th, The seven accessories to Bodhi, including 
memory, accumulation of merit, love, exertion, purity, concentration, and 
resignation. 7th, The eight secondary means including perfect vision, 
perfect resolution, perfect speech, perfect work, perfect living, perfect 
exercise, perfect memory, and perfect concentration. A Bhikshu should 
abstain from the following ten vicious acts; viz., killing animals, 
accepting things not given, deception, wilful misrepresentation, wicked- 
ness, cruelty, prevarication, spiritual ignorance, mischievous intention, and 
false vision. 

The Lord Erakuchchbanda spoke in high terms of the river Vao-- 
mati which is as holy as the Gaiiga, and which was produced from certain, 
drops of waters which fell from the fingers of Tathagatas by the 
superhuman power of Vajrasattva, Then Vajrasattva, by the order 
of the Lord, threw half the quantity of the hair and parings of nails 
of the Bhikshus who had been ordained there, on the top of the mountaia 
S'ankba, and lo, there came into existence a river named Kes'dvati, emer- 



253 

sion in the water of which washes away all sorts of sins arising out of 
anger, envy and folly. The other half of the hair and parings of nails 
were thrown on the top of the mount S'ankha, and it remained there, 
and looked like a large number of chaityas. 

After the departure of the Lord Krakuchchhanda from Nepal, Svayam- 
bhu produced eight Vitaragas, or holy men who had mastered their passions. 
They exist there, and grant happiness and prosperity to all creatures. These 
are, (1) Maiiilinges'vara, who grants increase of longevity to men. He 
lives in the vicinity of the valley on the river Maniehiida. This river was 
anciently Rohinf. It derives its present name from Lord Maniehuda's 
granting the jewel from his head to his suitors, on its banks. (2) Go- 
karnes'vara, in Gokarna on the Vagmati, where it falls from the moun- 
tain ; he grants increase of fame. (3) Kites'vara, on the crest of the 
mountain Charu in the vicinity of Svelahrada ; he grants increase of merit. 

(4) Kumbhes'vara, in Kumbhatirtha ; he grants increase of knowledge. 

(5) Phanigarttesvara, in Phanigartta on the Godavari ; he grants increase 
of happiness. (6) Phanilinges'vara, in Joytirlinga; he grants increase 
of fame in the valley of Phanis'ita. (7) Gaudhes'vara, on the peak of 
Gandhavatij he grants increase of wealth. (8) Vikrames'vara, near the 
river Vikramasthala ; he grants increase of progeny. Thus, by the power 
of Svayambhu and Manjudeva, villages, cities and capitals were founded 
from the crest of the mount S'ankha down to the Chintamanitirtha. The 
country has a rectangular shape. It is bounded on the north, by the 
Vdgmati, on the east by the Kes'avati, on the south by the mountain 
S'aiikha, and on the west by Ragumaiijari. Dharmakara, a king of 
China, was anointed its king, and he governed it wisely as his own 
kingdom. 

Y. The Lord gave the following enumeration of the holy places 

for ablution in, or near, the Vagmati river, detailing the meritorious conse- 
quences of bathing in them. (1) In the Vagmati there is a serpent named 
Eaktanga. (2) At the confluence of the Vagmati with the Maradaraka 
is S'anta-tirtha, which cures diseases. (3) At its confluence with the 
Manirohini is S'aAkara-tirtha, emersion in which brings health and peace. 
(4) At its confluence with the Rajamanjari is Rdja-tirtha, emersion 
in which gives health and regal power. (5) At the confluence of the 
Kes'vati with the Vimalavati is Manorama-tirtha ; and the serpent Kar- 
burakulis'a of that place grants clothes, &c. (6) At the confluence of the 
Kes'avati with Bhadra is Nirmala-tirtha, and the serpent Upanalaka of 



254 

the place is the destroyer of sin. (7) At the confluence of the Kes'avati 
with the Svarnavati is NidhSnaka ; the serpents Nanda and Upananda 
of which place grants wealth and corn. (8) At the confluence of Kes'a- 
vati with Papanasini is Jnana-tirtha ; the serpent S'vetasubhranaga of 
that place is the giver of happiness. (9) The confluence of the Kes'avati 
and the Vagmati is known as the Uhintamani-tirtha, and the serpent 
Varuna of that place fulfils all human desires. (10) The confluence of 
the Vagmati with the Ratnavati is known as the Ramodaka-tirtha. The 
serpent Padma of that place grants love and enjoyment. (11) The 
confluence of the Vagmati with the Charumati is known as Sulakshana- 
tirtha. The serpent Padma of this place is the grantor of fortune. 
The confluence of the Vagmati with the Prabhavati is known as Jaya- 
tirtha, which grants wealth and beauty and destroys enemies. 

Then the Lord proceeded to give the names of twelve other places 
of pilgrimage of a secondary character. They are resorted to on parti- 
cular conjunctions (yogas.) These are, (1) Analinga; (2) Manis'ila; 
(3) Gotravali; (4) Nadikrikantha ; (5) Mata; (6) Machchhamukhaj (7) 
Hlati; (8)Navalinga; (9)Kakes'vara; (lO)Techapa; (11) Vagis'vara; 
(12) — The merits of bathing in these tirthas are the same as those of the 
pools mentioned before. There are other holy bathing places. For instance 
the cataract of the Vagmati named Dari. There is a she- serpent named 
Snndari at Dari who fulfils all desires. On particular conjunctions the 
worship of Agastya, after bathing in the lake of the same name, conduces 
to the welfare of men. The worship of Ananta, on certain conjunctions 
like the Kumbha Sankranti, after the emersion in the lake Ananta, adds to 
wealth. The worship of Tara, after bathing in the lake Tara on the day 
of Vrisha Sankranti, fulfils human desires. The worship of Avaloki- 
tes'vara after emersion in the river Kapotara, which takes its rise from the 
opening of Kalihrada, saves human souls from perdition. The ten lords 
of the ten quarters, Brahma, Krishna with Radhika and other milkmaids 
went on pilgrimage to these tirthas. 

VI. — Maitreya asked the Lord why was Svayambhu called Vagi- 
s'vara, and how the place became the abode of Devas and holy places ? The 
Lord said, " In ancient times in the Bhadra Kalpa, when man^s life extended 
to thirty thousand years, Kanaka, the son of the priest of the king of 
Sobhavati, obtained Buddhahood under a Dumbilya tree, under the name 
of Sudharmaraja. I was then a disciple of Kanaka. Lord Kanaka 
went with all his disciples to Nepal on pilgrimage to Svayambh\i. Just 



255 

at this time, a Bhikshu, named Dharmas'rimitraj came to Nepal with a 
view to proceed to China to learn from Manjudeva the explanation of the 
Namasangiti and the meaning of the twelve letters. In his northward 
journey from the temple of Svayambhu he chanced to meet a cultivator 
driving his plough drawn by a tiger and a lion. The farmer welcomed 
him, requested him to halt with him for a night, and then to proceed to 
China which was, he said, a year's journey from the place. Then he 
caused the tiger and the lion to disappear in order to produce in the 
stranger's mind the impression that the land was ploughed by gods. 
This piece of ground so ploughed is called Jnanabhiimi, Dharmasrimitra 
had come to the mount Manjus'ri, the Nepalese residence of Manjudeva, 
where in the morning he discovered his host to be no less a person 
than Manjudeva himself. The wonder of the Bhikshu knew no 
bounds. Manjudeva, as a preliminary to his obtaining the explanations, 
made him perform the ceremony of Abhisheka in the following manner : 
The essence of Svayambhu was a circle. A circle was drawn with a 
radius of either one or ten or a thousand cubits measuring two spans 
each. It was decorated with eight squares of various colours. It had 
many openings. The Bhikhsu sat at the centre of the circle, and per- 
formed worship, contemplating in his mind the picture of Manjudeva with 
his wives. After the ceremony was over, Manjudeva instructed him in the 
explanation of the NamasaAgiti, and initiated him in the mysteries of 
the twelve letters. The twelve letters are compounds of ^, a and x i. 
By means of these letters all languages, all s'astras, and even the Vedas 
are produced." 

VII. Why was Svayambhu concealed under stones, and who 

raised the chaitya for Svyambhii? In answer to these questions the 
Lord gave the following explanation : " In that very Bhadra Kalpa when 
man's life extended to twenty thousand years, Kas'yapa, the son of a 
learned Brahmana of Varanasi, obtained Buddhahood under a pipal 
(Nyagrodha) tree. From Lord Kas'yapa the city of Varanasi is called 
Kas'i I was then, under the name of Jyotiraja, a disciple of Kas'yapa. 
Lord Kas'yapa went to Nepal to worship Svayambhii. Thence he 
went to Sumeru, where he was greatly honoured by Indra and other 
gods and goddesses. From Sumeru his journey was extended to Trayas- 
trins'a where he preached the good religion to his mother, and he 
ultimately chose it for his residence. Manjudeva, in company with his 
wives who may be compaired to Kes'ini and Upakes'ini, desirous of 



256 

keeping constant company witk the Lord, left his material frame behind, 
and in a celestial form proceeded to Trayastrins'a. The place where his 
ashes fell is known as Pataehchaitya or the Falling Temple. Devas and 
Asuras, who were on the mount Puchchhagra, called it Puchchhagra 
ehaitya. 

In the walled city of Gauda which had only one gate, Viravati was 
the presiding diety. Prachandadeva, the king of Gauda, having 
abdicated his throne in favour of his son S'aktideva, devoted himself 
for a long time to the service of the goddess Viravati. The fame 
of Svayambhu Kshretra as a holy place reached him there. He at 
once directed his steps towards the place. He renounced the world, 
and became a Bhikshu, under the name of S'antikara. A short time be- 
fore this, Vajrasattva, fearing that wicked men in the Kaliyuga, would 
steal away the jewels of Svayambhu and destroy his image, concealed him 
under a slab of stone. S'antikara saw Svayambhu lying concealed. He 
placed a large piece of precious stone upon it, which Vajrasattva per- 
forated in thirteen different places, so that any offerings in gold and 
silver may fall on Svayambhu's head, like so many flowers. Vis'vakarma, 
at the request of the S'antikara, built a ehaitya upon it. A ehaitya was 
also raised on the remains of Manjudeva on the mount PuchchhSgra. 
The residence of Manjudeva was also honoured with a similar ehaitya. 
S'antikara consecrated all these chaityas. He also built five temples. 
(1) In the first of these he placed the image of Mahavira, the giver of 
peace and final beatitude. This temple, facing the east, and extending 
from north to south, had only one entrance, and was divided into five 
apartments. (2) The second temple was situate to the south-east of 
the temple of Svayambhu. It was called Vasupurf, and was dedicated 
to Vasundhara, the giver of plenty. (3) To the south-west of Svayam- 
bhu was the temple of Vayupuri, dedicated to Vayu, animal sacrifice to 
whom frees one from transmigration into a bird's life. (4) The fourth was 
the temple of Agnipuri, sacred to Agni, by offering flesh and wine to 
whom one escapes from fire. The fifth temple was Nagapuri, consecrated 
to Varuna and other Nagas, by offering the five productions of a cow 
(Panchagavya) to whom a man attains peace and health, and gets copious 
rain. S'antikara placed the images of the following gods all round the 
place. On the south of S'd,ntipura he placed Prithubhairava ; to the east of 
Svayambhu Abhairavabali ; a short way down the hill to the east, Tejobhai- 
rava; to the south-west of the mountain, Vayubhairava ; to the west of the 



257 

mountain, Kbabhairava ; to the east, S'unyabhairava ; to the west of 
Svayambhu, Haritidevi facing the east ; to the east of the mountain 
Ekanaga, in the centre Kalinaga. Two Ganes'as were placed in the 
forest region on the mountain, one facing the south, the other facing the 
west. Beyond these, at the foot of the mountain, were placed four circles 
(Mandalas — Buddhist railings?) 

VIII. — There was a continuous drought for seven years in Nepal. 
The drought brought on a famine. The people were dying of starvation. 
At the request of the king Gruiiakama, S antikara undertook to allay 
the famine. He drew the figure of a lotus with eight petals, and invoked 
the Nagas. They came. In the centre of the lotus sat Varuna, of a white 
colour, with two hands and seven hoods. On the eastern petal came the 
blue coloured Ananta ; on the southern petal, Padmaka of the colour of 
a lotus stalk, with five hoods; on the western petal, the saffron coloured^ 
Takshaka, with nine hoods; on the northern Vasuki, green, with seven 
hoods ; on the south-west S'ankha, green ; on the north-west Kullka, white, 
with thirty hoods ; on the north-east the gold-coloured Mahapadma with 
as many hoods. But the blue coloured Karkata, who was to have sat on 
the south-eastern petal, did not come. At the command of S antikara 
king Gunakama brought him, against his will, from his retreat in the 
Lake A'dhara to the south of the Gandhavati, by main force. S antikara 
worshipped these Nagas, and they sent a copious shower. S'antikara, 
with the blood extracted from the bodies of serpents, painted the 
figures of these Nagas as seated on a lotus, and placed the picture in a 
city, named Nagapura, founded on the occasion, and consecrated it. 
The worship of the Nagas in this form was declared to be an antidote 
to famines and droughts. The Nagas were then dismissed, and Nepal 
was blessed with copious rain and plenty. Gunakama, in his old age, 
abdicated his throne in favour of his son Narendra, and renounced the 
world. By constantly worshipping Svayambhu and S'antikara he ob- 
tained, after death, the blessed region named Sukhavati. S'antikara 
performed a meritorious Samadhi named Asphalana, and, excavating a 
large cave, a Yojana in extent, to the east of S'antipura, remained there, 
like Gayas'Irsha, having in his left hand the jewel named Chintamani, 
the o-iver of food and clothing at the holder's desire, and in his right hand 
the waterpot named Chintamani, having a tree of the same name behind 
him. The cave was known as Gunagartta. It is a holy place ; it grants 
wealth and prosperity; and one is sure to obtain success and attain final 
33 



258 

beatitude by repeating sacred mantras here. It is still the belief in the 
neighbourhood that S'antikara rose again from his meditation as Vajra- 
sattva, and preached the relig'on which alone can grant final beatitude. 

The Lord gave the following account of the future condition of 
Nepal : " There will arise in the east, on the north-east of Kales'vara, 
on the trunk of a Champaka tree, a golden Lokes'vara, named Harivahana, 
facing the west. Brahmaiias and others will worship him under the 
name of Narayana. Long after this, there will arise on the Vagmati, 
in the valley of Mugasthata, a Lokes'vara, the subduer of the three 
regions, facing the south surrounded by Hari Hara, Hiranya- 
garblia and others. Him the people will worship under the name of 
Pas'upati. Long after that, during the reign of Yakshamalla, there will 
arise a Lokanatha in the place of Yamales'vara. For in the future there 
will arise on the Gandhavati, to the south of Gandhes'vara, a red coloured 
Lokes'vara, named Khasarpa, facing the north. Later than that, during 
the reign of Narendradeva, there will be a continuous drought extending 
over a period of twelve years. Narendradeva will worship the Lokes'- 
varas by the advice of Bandhudatta. He will bring Lokes'vara from the 
mount Kapota, and perform the ceremony of drawing the car. When 
the S aiva religion will be introduced in Nepal there will be a famine. 
The names here given clearly show that the Purana is not more than 
four or five hundred years old. 

Mr. Hodgson has given a connected and interesting narrative 
taken from the Svayambhu Purana, of the origin of Nepal in his ' Essays,' 
pp. 115. But the standpoint from which he surveyed his subject was 
different from mine, and his version contains several short extracts which 
I have omitted. 

Beginning, ^i" iw sinit %frH^T«l 

J 

* 

^jsq^q^^'n?? TTsrr^Tir^ ^ !r«: ii 



259 

ilT^WTi; ^TiTC: ^}^^JT^ ^^ ^K II 
^^Wf ^IKW vmi <?'fl«lTg5?W5^: I 

End. «JcTiSi«f?f^T^s^ ^isioji ^^^r ^f^ i 

5if?rfg[ii sifirflT? ^fk^A w^t ^^ i 
^ ^ \» *\ 

Colophon. ^ ^^^■«ini^Hi*Tif ^%7tw fl'^rsiwra^'fr srrflreflTs^qr?!: qf^gflTH: i 



No. B. 33. 
TA'RASHTOTTARAS'ATA-NAMA-STOTRA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 7| X 22 inches. Folia, 7. Lines on a page, 
5. Extent in slokas, 70. Date, ? Appearance, old. Verse. Incorrect. 

One hundred and eight epithets strung together in the form of a 
hymn in praise of a goddess named Ekajata A'rya Tara or simply Tara, 
who is the counterpart of the Hindu goddess of the same name. The hymn 
is alleged to have been imparted by Avalokita Bodhisattva to Vajrapani 
Bodhisattva and is intended to be worn as an amulet to avert evils 
proceeding from thieves, war, fire, lions, water, elephants, tigers, noxious 
animals o-enerally, and other causes. Bhikshus were much exposed to these 
in their peregrinations, and Vajrapani wanted a ready means of overcom- 
ine them. It is obviously an imitation of Hindu hymns of the kind, of 
which there are a great many extant. The Hindus usually prefer 108 
to 100 epithets. The Muhammadans have also several hymns of the 
same kind. They call them in Arabic ^>-^1 *J **«. if or " the most 



260 

comely names of God." The number of epithets employed by them 
is 33, 99, or 990, according to the number of beads in their rosary. 
The usual number is 99. 
Beginning. # »ffl: 'si't^^raiaT ^T?5[ffKr^ I 

=sft«frTT7<T+H-+ ^jg 5rr*rr^Tg-ft?;ifait i 

fif rf ^oiTFfrfw: ^flfiT^fsigTfgn II 

^fiffW? rrr^^^ ^rTf} Sfsfi^fl II 

^TJgfri^rf^f?;§m'gT<T*^^^si: ii 
^sire=gif5aT •^'st *ui^tg^^fti?r: ii 

fr^Tqf^HTJn? ^^qifw^'^Rr: ii 

End. 5f[frr«Tr,g fl'^r^Twt w^liiraf^sjTT^; i 

^sji'siffl^! '9%^^ %Fsiftrfifq«jf«i«i« I 

^T f^'cf^T ^t-^ «j^iqq?i^ II 
Colophon. ?;frr ^T35«n<iw5Tf<?5T^T HTflre"t=nt:st<T^ ^^Hififf qft^wrfi ii 



261 



No. B. 22. 
TATHAGATA-GUHYAKA alias GUHYA-SAMAGHA. 

Substance, paper, 12 X 3 inches. Folia, 118. Lines on each page, 5. 



Extent in ^lokas, 1,100. Character, Newari. Date, N. S. 919. Appearance, 
old. Prose. Corrupt. 

A ritualistic work belonging to the class Tantra, and treating of 
various esoteric rites and mantras, dwelling largely on the peculiar marks 
that are characteristic of the body of a Tathagata, and on various forms 
of meditation. It is written partly in Gatha verse, and partly in Sanskrit 
prose, and is divided into eighteen chapters. 

As a Tantric composition of the esoteric kind, it has all the charac- 
teristics of the worst specimens of S'akta works of that type. The 
professed object, in either case, is devotion of the highest kind — absolute 
and unconditional — at the sacrifice of all worldly attachments, wishes 
and aspirations ; but in working it out theories are indulged in and 
practices enjoined which are at once the most revolting and horrible that 
human depravity could think of, and compared to which the worst 
specimens of Holiwell Street literature of the last century would appear 
absolutely pure. A shroud of mystery alone serves to prevent their true 
characters being seen, but divested of it works of the description would 
deserve to be burnt by the common hangman. Looking at them philo- 
sophically the great wonder is that even a system of religion so pure 
and so lofty in its aspirations as Buddhism could be made to ally itself 
with such pestilent dogmas and practices. The chapters of the work are, 
as is usually the case with the Tantras, called Patalas, and the similitude 
is carried out in every respect. The first chapter opens with details 
about various kinds of Samadhi or meditation appropriate for the higher 
order of the Buddhist clergy. The second gives directions as to the 
mode in which Buddha is to be reflected upon. The third and the fourth 
describe various kinds of diagrams and mystical figures necessary to be 
drawn when engaged in the worship of Buddha. In the fifth are 
detailed the characteristics and qualifications necessary for a neophyte 
to undertake certain forms of secret worship, and among the practices 
enjoined which promote the attainment of perfection, debauchery of the 
most bestial character, not even excepting mothers, sisters and daughters. 



262 

is reckoned as most essential.* These are followed by an account o£ 
how, during the height of meditation in the case of perfect devotees, 
the crown of their head bursts open, and rays of light issue therefrom. 
Certain prayers to be addressed by Bodhisattvas to Bhagavan are also 
given. 

The sixth is devoted to secret mantras, like the Vija mantras of 
the Tantras, to meditation of mystic diagrams, and to training necessary 
for such meditation. The most appropriate food for devotees while 
engaged in this worship is said to be the flesh of elephants, horses and 
dogs,t to the exclusion of rice. The means of attaining perfection, 
described in the next chapter, are not to be austerity, privations and 
painful rigorous observances, but the enjoyment of all the pleasures of 
the world,J and the way in which some of the pleasures are described 
is simply revolting. § 

The eighth opens with a hymn, by Ratnaketu, in praise of Bhaga- 
van, and then gives the ritual of the worship aforesaid. The ninth is 
devoted to the ritual of the worship of Vajradhara, the diagrams, the 
forms of meditation, and the secret mantras required for the same. The 
tenth is a dialogue between Tathagata and Vajradhara, in course of 
which the latter explains the details of adoration with a secret mantra 
called Maha-siidhi-praday aka-mantra, or that which grants the highest 
transcendental powers. In the next, Tathagata explains the mystery of 
the sacred syllables om, dk, hum, and the uses thereof. This is followed, 
in the next chapter, by instructions as to the rituals to be observed in 
performing particular kinds of meditations and the rewards derivable 
therefrom. All castes and classes are declared to be fit for the per- 
formance of such meditations, provided they follow the rules. The 
subject is continued in the next in which japa or silent recitations of 
mantras of various kinds are enjoined. These recitations may be accomi- 

^ f%f^ f^<j^f Jt'^ii'^sjTSTr^^^'si II fol. 15. 

Tf^^j^Ka????^^ =^Ta=Ti f^H^^fi II fol. ao. 

^^^iflmrnw t^^'griB f^sifrr ii fol. 21. 
§ «? f^T- sifir^T'Zl 5^f^=9 f^KH^tl I fol. 23. 



263 

plisbed by the body (kai/ajdpa), by speech {vdgjApa), by the mind 
(chiitajdpa), by the passions (ragajapa), and by other means. 

The fifteenth section is particularly disgusting in its details, as it 
describes the adoration of Buddha through damsels of twelve years of 
age, daughters of Chandalas, dancing women, and other low castes, and 
by observances of rituals of the most revolting kind. Daily intercourse 
with daughters of the Charidala caste in out of the way places is deemed 
an essential of the highest importance,* and particular stress is laid on 
their personal cbarms.t A variety of mantras are given for the purpose 
of these adorations, and also incantations and charms for curing diseases, 
for causing hallucination or death, for acquiring superhuman powers, and 
for other purposes. The mantras are of the usual type, formed of the 
mystic syllables, om, hum, hah, ah, &e. One of these include twenty- 
three such syllables. 

The sixteenth is exclusively ritualistic, giving directions for various 
kinds of secret worship, and the most appropriate diagrams, mantras, 
homas, and offerings of various kinds required for them. The oblations 
to be offered on the homa fire include, among other things, ordure, flesh, 
oil, &c4 The ceremonials described are throughout in the highest 
degree mystical. 

The next two sections are quite as mystical and revolting as the last, 
but they are not so entirely ritualistic. They are made up of a great 
number of dialogues between Bhagavan, Vajradhara, Vajrapani, and 
other Bodhisattvas, in which the esoteric doctrines of the faith are 
discussed at length, and various duties, discipline, forms, observances, 
rituals and practices are inculcated. All the ritualistic forms of dhydna, 
dharand, mudra, nydsa, sddhana, &c., of reflection, meditation, gesticula- 
tion, regulation of breath, and other manifestations of mummery which 
characterize the Tantric cult of the Hindus are all faithfully reproduced, 
and interspersed with hymns, prayers, hallelujahs, &c. Some of these 
are in themselves of perfectly unexceptionable character. Others, absurd, 
unmeaning, or stupid as they are, are not in themselves such as to be 
particularly objectionable. But they are sometimes disfigured by in- 

t^^ti ^T^%T fsr»q U-^^^ \^^^w^ ii fol. 73. 
f '^T^^irt f^siT^T^ nsl^saPR ^iwsrt I fol. 73. 
t r^^Wg^'^l^T^rJi Slfrl'TT^^^ I fol. 78, 



264 

junctions which are highly repulsive. Not satisfied with the order given 
in the last chapter to make offerings o£ excrementitious matter on the 
homa fire, the author goes to the length of recommending such substance 
as human food,* denouncing all repugnance to such articles as sinful,t 
and enjoining that no food or drink should be taken by a worshipper, 
which has not been mixed with ordure, or urine, or flesh-meat of some 
kind. J Such injunctions would, doubtless, be best treated as the ravings 
of madmen. Seeing, however, that the work in which they occur is 
reckoned to be the sacred scripture of millions of intelligent human 
beings, and their counterparts exist in almost the same words in Tan- 
tras which are held equally sacred by men who are by no means 
wanting in intellectual faculties of a high order, we can only deplore the 
weakness of human understanding which yields to such delusion' in the 
name of religion, and the villainy of the priesthood which so successfully 
inculcates them. No wonder the work was long kept away from Mr. 
Hodgson on the allegation that it was not available in Nepal, though he 
at last got it. {Essays, p. 49.) 

Beginning. ■^ -sm: ^n^-^'^m i x4 w^T^«ift^f«'r ^*?§ war^T'r ^sler^lTJirr^ij- 
^rsirr^Ti^^«?^^9Tf«^5i^ f^si'^r^ i ^iif^^ra ^srfn^TC ^^^^^^^s 

End. T^^ui ^ g4rr^T>i»fi^i '^ tifv^^r fl'^re^r: ^^?t ^r^ f^'i? ^■^^ 

Colophon. TfH ^I'^sift^'UTfr^T'^^T^f^fi^'^^T^ nijgfl^ ^4jt=uf^^t ^^^T- 



f^^^" 59^ IT^ffl^ Jjlj fl'f i^ff II fol. 85. 

w^^f^f^iTr fsfSfffl^ vii f^^^anj ii fol. 91. 

ft^^flf^^TJi^f ftftl^W qf^^^trl II fol. 93. 



265 

No. B. 37. 
UPOSHADHA AVADANA. 

'gq^q^T^^RiT 1 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 12 x 3^ inches. Folia, 37. Lines on a 
page, 5. Extent in ^lokas, 400. Character, Newari. Bate, ? Appearance, 
old. Prose and verse. Very incorrect. 

An account of an optional fast called Uposhadha or Poshadhaj 
(ante, ^.111). It is said to have been imparted by S'akya himself. The 
work is divided into three chapters. The 1st treats of the history of 
the fast; the 2nd, its details ; and the 3rd, its obligations. 

When S'akya was one day seated under a tree in the Nyagrodha 

Garden near the city of Kapilavastu, Vas'ishtha, a Brahman of the 

Vas'ishtha gotra, came to see him. The Brahmanhad long nails and 

unkempt beard, and was very much emaciated and weak. Being asked 

by the Lord why he was so, he replied by saying that he had adopted the 

mensial fast (masavraia) for the attainment of the fourfold blessing, 

fasting at a time for a month, and that having observed it for a hundred 

years he had been reduced to his present condition. The Lord said, " your 

nails and your beard and your abstinence from food for so long a time 

have not brought you at all near your object. Do you observe the fast 

of Uposhadha in honour of A'rya Avalokites'vara, and you will at once 

attain your end." In course of further discussion on the subject, 

the Lord said that he had acquired adamantine hardness of body by 

observing the fast. He also narrated a story about two Brahmaus in 

connection with it. He said in the time of Kas'yapa, when Kriki was 

king of Benares, Patuvarmma and Hadivarmma, two Brahman youths, 

saw a procession in the street, and on enquiry learnt that Kriki was 

going to the lord Kas'yapa to hear the merits of the Uposhadha fast. 

The youths followed, and, having heard the Lord's sermon about it, 

perfomed the ceremony. By virtue of this fast the elder youth was born 

under the name of Sujata, a son of Kriki. The other, whose fast was 

vitiated by neglect in the observance of all the necessary details was born 

as a Nao-a. He remembered, however, the circumstances of his former life, 

and besought Sujata for help. The king issued a proclamation offering a 

golden throne to whoever would furnish him with the ritual of the fast. 

An old woman came forward and said, " break that column before me and 

34 



266 

you will get the ritual." The column was broken, and at the foot of it 
was found the ritual, inscribed on a golden tablet. The Naga, having 
got the ritual performed the ceremony, and was translated to the heaven 
of Indra, where he was born a god, under the name of Uposhadha. 

The proper time for the rite is the 8th of every waxing moon, whence 
the name Ashtamivrata. A hut having been erected with five kinds of 
sacred wood, Lokes'vara should be worshipped in it with proper offerings 
and mantra, the performer observing the purification of the eight members 
of his body before and after it for a week. Especial merit is attained if 
particular kinds of articles be presented and particular musical instruments 
be sounded. The details about these extend to several pages. 

The most important abstinence during the performance of the rite 
is from cruelty to animals, and this is illustrated by a story. A king of 
Vais'ali and his queen, having performed the rite and thereby obtained 
a precious jewel, was engaged in giving alms when Indra, having assumed 
the shape of a Brahman, came forward and asked alms. The king said, 
" Let me know what you want, and it will be given.^'' The Brahman 
named the jewel. The king was greatly distressed at this ; but not to 
break his promise to a Brahman he was about to give it, when Indra, 
assuming the shape of a hawk, darted at the jewel and carried it away. Then 
in the shape of the Brahman, he threw his sword at the bird and killed it 
The king finding that his jewel was about to be restored to him became 
glad, but Indra longing to have the jewel and frustrate the king's good 
word disappeared with it. The king and his country suffered long and 
grievously for the destruction of the hawk, and the evil was not re- 
moved until the king, under the advice of Krakuchchhanda, performed 
the rite once again. 
Beginning. •$• M^\ Ta^^re i "^w ^^^^T^T^^f^^^i;!^ 1 ^t^ w«it ^fr^*%^ 

J * • 



267 
End. stfrr^rii g gf»i^ *iJra^ g-g^ it?[t i 

9^^ WT^T^T^ ^ft'^r^ fl^IT^ II 

Colophon. i;f!T ^ff^rsgi^wf^^g^^ ^fTwifj^WfT^ qi^flTj5i^r«ifHl^fTW(- 



No. B. 51. 
USHNlSHAVIJAYA DHA'RANL 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 7x3 inches. Folia, 4. Lines on a page, 
6. Extent in ^lokas, 50. Character, Newari. Date, ? Prose. Incorrect. 

A mystic mantra bearing the name of Ushnlshavijaya, a Bodhi- 
sattva. It begins with the words Om /crum hrum krum sodliaya, Sfc. Ifc 
was, imparted by Buddha Amitayuh to Avalokites'vara. It is specially 
efficatious in curing diseases and prolonging life. 

Beginning, -a*' ST^T W^^ ^m'^^^^fk^VTV I xi VVl iH^^fgiT ^Hg Wji^t^t 
sifrrf^^T wJi^T'f ^^rir'sj^sini^r ^iJ!ii^^ri%^^tT tif^^'sr^'^i^'^r- 

si *# " 



268 
End. tnt ^^IjTiTJi^i^ftiftsRr tw v\v^'\ m'^f^m '^^^=r 'aw^ '#<q- 

Colophon. ^-[-^ ^aift^f^oi^T srm vr^Vt ^fliar i 



No. B. 34. 

vajrastJchl 



I 

Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 10 X 3 inches, Folia, 9. Lines on a 
page, 6. Extent in ^lokas, 140. Character, Newari. Date, ? Appearance, 
old. Prose. Correct. 

A disputation about caste. By As'vaghosha. The work has been 
translated, in a very spirited style, ' into English by Mr. B. H. Hodgson, 
and published in the' Transactions of the Hoyal Asiatic Society of Great 
Britain/ and also in his 'Essays/ (pp. 126f.). Mr. Hodgson writes 
the name of the author Ashughosha, but the MS. gives it as 1 have put 
it above. The meaning of the name is " he who has the voice" {G/iosAa) 
"of a horse" {as'va). The first word (As'va) is put in contradistinction to 
the name of the tutor Manjughosha, "he of the sweet voice." Ashu is 
meaningless. The arguments used are very much of the same class with 
what is given on p. 225. 

Beginning. ■^ srw fl^^Tm^ I 

^g^m '^'mw^ ^^^tffl ^siTHff II 

t<T: 9Wm ^fl^: Sffllii «(»Bra^# ^"^^ STOT1T | 

^W ^WSf T Wtjj SUTT'Sr ^^51 f ^Tf'^'f STKT'lf II 

mmm ilil I f^ ait?: ftfi 5ITr<T: f« ?t^H- f¥ WT'f f%»Jl"^(^: f^ ^«n 

End. ^giTr«^3T ^f^^ f^^iHt w'i ^r^^' '^rr«ff?^5rt i 

Colophon. lifJTM F^^r'^WT'^gi'^TKTSflfilfiT I 



269 

No. B. . 

VAJRA'VIDiLRANA NAMA-DHARANI-HRIDAYO- 
PA-HRIDAYA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 7^ X 3 inches. Folia, 3. Lines on a page, 
5. Extent in ^lokas, 25. Character, Newari. Date, ? Appearance, old. 
Prose. Incorrect. 

A charm whichj on being worn in an amulet, or frequently recited, 
insures robust health. It was imparted by the Lord when he was dwell- 
ing in a thunderbolt. It begins with the words Om tata tata totaya 
totaya spJiata spliata sphotaya sphotaya ghuna ghuna ghunapaya ghuna- 
piaya svarvasattvdni, 8fc^ 

Beginning. ^ sfflT wi^^ ^T^^'i'^T^^ft'^TT'sg I si^T ^'^T'f i X^ fl'qT ^iTif ^*%^ 
^^TVflTt*T ■^^HnT'v^n?^; i rr^i^'^TTTPcr ^;5PrvT^ir ^^^«(TmBT- 
End. l^^fl^si ■^ TflT K^'W^im sfii^'U^^RT'q^ ^M\ Tn'^X ^^X 

Colophon. ^ss^^f^^TKi^r 'fifl -^kV^i^^iti^?): ^wia: I 



No. B. . 
VASUNDHARA-VRATOTPATTI AVADA'NA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 11 X 2f inches. Folia, 23. Lines on a 
5. Extent in ^lokas, 350. Character, Newari. Date, N. S. 923. 
Ap^pearance, old. Verse. Incorrect. 

On the origin of a fast in honour of a goddess named Vasundhard,. 
The account is said to have been imparted to Ananda by S'akya himself 
during his sojourn in the monastery of Ghoshira, in the suburbs of 
Kauslmbi; but the work is palpably a modern one. The goddess claims 
the threefold form of Vasundhara or the earth, Maha Lakshmi or great 
prosperity, and Kumari or the virgin. 



270 

The story runs that in a remote period of antiquity, during 
the reign of a king named Suryodaya, the inhabitants of the earth 
were very viciously disposed^ and suffered much from famine and 
disease. Once, when a famine was at its height, some maids of 
honour of the great goddess Vasundhara happened, in course of their 
rambles, to pass over the earth, and to behold the distress men 
were immersed in. Touched by sympathy they solicited their mis- 
tress at Tushita to afford them some relief. Thereupon the goddess 
sent for her stewards, Nandimukha and As'vaghosha, and thus ex- 
pressed her behest : — " In the absence of a Tathagata mankind have 
run into vice, and it is my wish to reclaim them by giving currency 
to my worship. Do you, therefore, descend on the earth, and by some 
contrivance or other win over king Suryodaya, through whom my 
worship may be proclaimed ?" 

The stewards assumed the forms of bewitchingly beautiful damsels, 
and tried to win the king by sweet songs; but failed. Then assuming 
the forms of fierce boars they commenced to destroy the king's favourite 
garden. The king, hearing that two boars were destroying his garden, 
came forward with his men, who surrounded the place, and raised a dreadful 
uproar all round. The boars, thereupon, raised a hurricane, laid every- 
thing prostrate, enveloping the place in impenetrable darkness, and rush- 
ing past the king so as to strike against him, escaped. The contact 
knocked down the king, and made him insensible ; but he soon regained 
his senses, and, mounting his horse, chased after them. The boars 
then gave up their swinish form, entered the body of the king's 
horse, and gallopped on across rivers and marshes till they reached a 
forest, when the horse stumbled and knocked down the king insensible 
on the ground. Of the king's retinue only one trooper was able to 
follow him in his wild run. He came to his help, and, when the 
king regained his seoses and asked for a drink of water, ran to the 
nearest river for a supply. 

When Senagupta, for that was the name of the soldier, had re- 
freshed himself with a drink and was filling his can for his master, he 
beheld, on an island on the other side of the river, some Apsaras damsels 
engaged in frolic. The sight enchanted him, and he stood bewitched. 
When beckoned to approach near, he crossed the stream, and narrated 
to the damsels the history of his adventure. He then asked them what 
had brought them there. The Apsarases said they had come to perform 



271 

the rite of Vasundharavrata. He then said, " if you will please instruct 
me in the details of the rite, I too would perform it." The damsels replied 
by saying that at early dawn on the second day of the moon in the month 
of Bhadra, or any other month, the performer should bathe himself, put 
on clean clothes, construct on a pure spot smeared with cowdung a 
diagram with metals, jewels, flowers, paddy or powdej-ed stone, and place 
therein the emblems of the seven gods, and surround them with a line 
formed of paddy or any other of the articles aforenamed. The place should 
also be decorated with flags of yellow cloth, umbrellas and garlands of 
leaves and flowers, and the gods be there invited, and due offerings 
made to them. On the following morning the performer should bathe 
in a river, or a sacred pool, put on yellow cloth, and purify himself with 
the five products of the cow. Then facing the east contemplate and men- 
tally worship the three jewels, and then worship the goddess Vasundhara 
with the usual mantras and offerings. After this worship he should tie 
round his wrist a protecting cord [rahsha) formed of sixteen threads 
and having sixteen knots in it, and then pray for whatever he wishes. At 
night he should partake of barley-meal, and keep awake the whole night. 
Next morning he should again worship the goddess, and then bidding her 
adieu, worship a human virgin, and then give a feast to his spiritual guide 
and others. 

After hearing this account of the fast, Senagupta brought water to 
the king, and explained to him the reason of his delay. On his return 
home the king appointed Senagupta his priest, and celebrated the fast 
with great pomp. It was, however, not accomplished in due order. 
The queen Chutadevi, who accepted the protecting cord at the time of 
celebrating the rite, afterwards thought it very offensive placed besides 
her jewelled bracelets, and tore and threw it out through a window. At 
this time a maid-servant of another queen who was residing in a Nimba 
Park was passing by the window, and the cord fell on her head. She 
took it respectfully, accepted the hospitality of the king, and, returning 
to her mistress, told the story of the cord and the merits of the fast. There- 
upon both of them mentally performed the fast. 

A short time after the goddess Vasundhara assumed the form of an 
old woman, and, coming to the gate of the king, sent a message to the 
queen through one of her maids, saying, that the queen's grandmother 
had come, and wanted to see her. The maid duly carried the message to 
her royal mistress, but the queen felt annoyed at it, and exclaimed, 



272 

" my grandmother ! why she is long since dead ; this is an imposter ; go, 
and drive her away." 

Thus repulsed, the old woman repaired bo the Nimba forest, and was 
there most respectuUy and hospitably entertained. This pleased her 
much, and she made herself manifest in her own real form. This is 
described as a handsome female of yellow complexion, having one head 
but six arms, holding in the right hands the emblems of blessing and of 
salutation to Buddha, and a handful of jewels, and in the left an auspi- 
cious jar {hJiadragliata), a volume of the Prajna, and a sheaf of corn. 
Through her blessings everything prospered in the home of the Nimba 
queen, and the king, forsaking his senior wife, lived with her, 

Chiitadevi was greatly incensed by the conduct of the king, and in 
a furious passion ran to the Nimba Park. There, however, she heedlessly 
trod upon some flowers which had been offered to the goddess, and from 
the sin proceeding therefrom her head was immediately metamorphosed 
into that of a fierce sow. Looking at this the people of the neighbour- 
hood raised an uproar, and out of shame she ran into a forest to hide 
herself. There she saw successively two birds quarrelling with each 
other, a large boar, a fox, a sow, and a big serpent. She repen- 
ted of her sins, and, wishing to see the goddess herself, proceeded 
further, and, coming by a river, saw some damsels carrying golden pitchers 
on their hips. She asked them, " who are you ? and where are you going 
to ?" The damsels replied : " We are the maids of Vasundhara, come to 
fetch water from this river for her bath. This river flows only for her 
bath ; wash your eyes with its waters and you will see what you desire." 

She did so, and, immediately regaining her former shape, beheld the 
goddess before her. Saluting her most reverently she said, " Divine 
being, I have sinned most grievously. Do thou remit my sins; I shall 
now perform the fast most reverently." 

The goddess was pleased with her repentance. She remitted her sins, 
and directed her to return home and perform the fast. In reply to further 
requests she explained the history of the sights Cliutudevi had seen in the 
forest. " The two birds," said the goddess, " were formerly two sisters who 
quarrelled at meal, and therefore they have now become, two birds. 
The boar was formerly a housekeeper, and in that capacity he doled out 
half rations to the guests of his master, and purloined the other half, 
and this is his desert. The fox was formerly a learned Brahman, and he 
dissuaded people by his sophistry from giving alms to Bauddhas, and 



273 

therefore has he become a fox." Chutadevi explained to them their sins 
and ransomed them, and, returning home, performed the rite of Vas'undhara 
with her husband, and lived in peace and plenty. 

Beginning. -^ sr: ^5|^^tifi*g'W«I! I 

^ 'Hi: ^wiT3T?iT ^W^JT 'ST^fiS^ I 

^gfw^ ^"wro^KR'cioumg^: ii 
nsr^w^^^g TT5riflT??fjriF^«ir ii 

ft^re^ gWBlT^ qnjs^fi^ WTg'EJ'r II 

jr^Tsira«T^ifw: ^'Ta^r «Tf*i^rsf%<T: ii 

wg^'Hwti'^f^ ^g ^^ ^^ftftt II 
End. ?r^i wf% ^IT ^^jt ^^ 5?f si-gif^^ I 

^Wci^fsffw: B^^T>sm ^=5r%«it II 

Colophon. ^^s^^xDfwtTiq^si^^T^ ^ra I 



35 



274 

No. B. 49. 
VASUNDHAllASHTOTTARA.-S'ATANiiMA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 7i X 3 inches. Folia, 3. Lines on a page, 
5. Extent in slokas, 30. Character, Newari. Date, ? Appearance, fresh. 
Verse. Incorrect. 

One hundred and eight epithets forming a hymn in praise of 
Vasundhara, apparently meant for the presiding divinity of the earth or 
Prithvi Devi, but her abode is said to be in the Tushita heaven as describ- 
ed in the next preceding work. 

Beginning, n^ st^t wji^^ ^T^ll^'^'il^?:!^ I 

End. ^^^T ^'t^^»qggTR3irf?r«?:r'?-^ i 

fgg'gf'fi f ^^ ^ ^r^q^qsTTt (?) i 
Colophon. '3iTEq^V«^'';isn»natTR:?i?r ^i^swrf^^ ^^iTt i 



No. B. 16. 
Vl'RAKUS'A AVADANA. 

Substance, Nepalese paper, 12 x 4 inches. Folia, 96. Lines on a page, 
8. Extent in £okas, 640. Character, Newari. Date, N. S. 947 = A. D. 
Appearance, old. Prose and verse. 

This codex contains two works, both in ttie Newdri language, one a 
translation of the story of Kusa of the Virakusa Avadana and the other 
Ashtamivrata-katha, or story in praise of the Ashtami fast. Both are 
said to be extracts from the Divya Avadana, translated into the 
Nepalese language by Amritananda. The Ashtamivrata ia the same 
with the UposkadAa or Pos/iadka rite described on page 265. The name 
here given refers to the age of the moon when it should be performed 



275 

The story given is in substance the same with what occurs in the Kus'a- 
Jatakaj {ante, p. 110), but some of the names and details are changed. 
The jewel referred to in the Kus'a Jataka is here said to have been 
obtained as a reward for performing the Ashtamivrata. The name of 
KusVs mother here is Alinda, Kus'a has aliases in Virtipa and Upavasa 
Kus'a, and he obtains in this story a handsome shape by observing the 
fast under notice. 

Beginning. ^ sr^T xrs^^Tq i ^w. '^ff^m^kf^^'^xj^ I ^«r55lT?l ^r^g^ai^ 

^^^ ^aWktr^T^sit^^ ■sun i ^T%r ft^ti^iajr ^^rcarfrT ^an^- 
3rr5?raf%m*^ I ^i^rsf^'^^ri^T w-^wjulg s^asitTfl imiot^it i ^^- 



No. A. 18. 
VRATAVADA'NAMA'LA. 



Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 16 x 8 inches. Folia, 70. Lines on 
a page, 6. Extent in biotas, 2,109. Character, Newari. Date, ? Ap- 
pearance, old. Prose. Incorrect. 

The work in its entirety comprises a number of stories in praise 
of various optional fasts or Vratas, but the codex under notice is a mere 
fragment, containing only the story of Suvarnavarna, in three chapters, 
in praise of a rite called Lahsha-chaiti/avrata. From the name of the 
hero of the story the fragment is named Suvarnavarnavadana. 

The principal interlocutors in this work are Jayas'ri and Jinas'ri, 
who quote the authority of Upagupta, who is said to have recounted the 
merits of the work to As'oka. Upagupta says that on the Nirvana of 
the Lord when Mahakas'yapa was at the head of the Church at Raja- 
griba, one Divakara, son of Ratuakara, a merchant of Ilajagriha had 



276 

reduced himself to great distress by excessive dissipation. Impelled by 
want and hunger and stung with the reproaches of his wife, he one day 
presented himself before Mahakasyapa, and sought his advice. 

Mahakashyapa advised Divakara to perform the ceremony of 
Lakshackaitya. " Once on a time", said he, " Lord Buddha discoursed on 
the importance and the merits of the ceremony. He was then residing 
in the Champaka grove belonging to Vis'vabhadra,' a citizen of 
Padmapuri. While seated on a stone under the shade of a palm tree he, 
at the request of his followers, exhibited in the sky the model of a 
crystal chaitya surrounded by a hundred thousand other chaityas. 

He brought them on the earth. He told them how Lord Vipas'yi 
showed the same thing to prince Pushpaketu, of Bandhumati, to Chandra- 
ketu, to Stiryyaketu, and to prince Svarnaketu, of Svarnavati. He advised 
them to erect chaityas and worship them. Those that bathe the model 
chaityas with the perfumed waters of the Mandakini river go to the 
residence of Sugata. One who desires to perform the ceremony of the 
Lakshachaitya should decorate the Dharmasala of a Vihara by raising the 
flags of Dharma, Ratna, Padma, and Vajra at the four corners. On the 
day previous to the ceremony, he should worship the image of the 
three jewels, and fast during the night. On the day of the ceremony, 
he should take an early bath, gather from the field different kinds of 
clay, temper them with milk, curd, ghi, cowdung and cow's urine. 
The clay then should be purified by the repetition, twenty-one times, 
over it of the mantra called Virochanadharani. Then it should be shaped 
into a solid sphere with a tapering spire. The sphere should be opened in 
the middle and grass, rice, and five jewels placed into it. Such models 
should be worshipped to the extent of one hundred thousand, or any less 
number that may be convenient. 

Vis'vabhadra, on hearing this, entered the ascetic state, and became 
an Arhat. In one of his previous existences he had worshipped model 
chaityas, in consequence of which he obtained great excellence in this 
existence. He had then been a proud Brahmana, but was so humbled 
by poverty that he worshipped the models and obtained blessings from 
Vipas'yi. 

II. The second chapter gives the story of Suvarnavarna. The 
story runs that on hearing the merits of this fast from Kas'yapa, Diva- 
kara repaired to his home, and by the performance of the above ceremony 
obtained large profits in his own trade. Devendra advised him to worship 



277 

the " three jewels," by virtue of which Divakara was blessed with a 
son named Suvarnavarna. In his previous existence Suvarnavarna was 
Punyamahes'a, a Devaputra of the thirty -third heaven. 

A short time after the birth of his son, Divakara undertook a distant 
maritime expedition. While he was away on his voyage, his son, Suvar- 
navarna resorted one day to the Venuvana grove, and there happened to 
hear gathas chanted by a Bhikshu in praise of high moral sentiments. He at 
once sought conversion to the true faith J but the Bhikshu objected. He 
said he could not convert a youth who had not obtained the permission of 
his parents. After many attempts to obtain the permission of his mother, 
the youth was obliged to wait till the return of his father. In the mean- 
while he began to mix with Panditas, S'ramanas and Brahmanas. What- 
ever good sayings he heard he noted down in a book, which he used to read 
in his father^s garden outside the city. Close by this garden there was a 
villa belonging to one Prachanda, a minister of Ajatas'atru, and the minister 
there enjoyed the society of a courtesan named Kas'isundari. This woman 
was over head and ears in love with Suvarnavarna, but Suvarnavarna 
contemptuously rejected all her advances. Desperate in her amour, she 
broke an engagement with Prachanda, and entered Suvarnavarna^s garden 
with a view to charm him with all her blandishments. Prachanda, 
impatient to have her society, sent messenger after messenger after her, 
and at last traced her where she was. He went to her, beat her, tore her 
hair, and, furious with rage, ordered an orderly immediately to put her to 
death. But the man charged with this infernal commission was moved by 
her piteous entreaties, and fled away. He was pursued to a long distance by 
Prachanda who, when he found the chase hopeless, returned with a view to 
destroy Kas'isundari with his own hands. During this interval Kas'i- 
sundari ran to the nearest wall of the garden in order to scale over it and 
escape, but failed in the attempt on account of the great height of the wall. 
No sooner Prachanda found her near the wall than he gave her a violent 
kick. Stunned by the blow she fell insensible, and was bitten by a black 
snake on whose body she fell. Prachanda, finding her dead, returned home, 
and sent oflicers to search the garden of Suvarnavarna for the dead body, 
and to charge the owner of the garden with the murder. The king made 
over the investigation of the case to Prachanda, who, with only the show 
of a trial, ordered Suvarnavarna to the stake. Just at this moment 
Divakara returned from his distant voyage, and Lord Kds'yapa, 
obtained Nirvana, leaving A'nanda at the head of his congregation. 



278 

A'nanda lived at Vaisali. Divakara prayed for his intervention. 
A'nanda, by virtue of his power of working miracles^ presented himself 
before the king, persuaded him to reverse the order of punishment ; but, 
at the instigation of Prachandaj the executioner hurried on his business. 
Suvarnavarna was already placed on the stake when the royal messengers 
reached the place of execution. But the stake had been already deprived 
of its sting. A'nanda had miraculously produced a lotus on the top 
of the stake whereon Suvarnavarna felt himself very comfortable. 
By the instructions received from A'nanda, Suvarnavarna obtained true 
knowledge. Kas'isundari was resuscitated by a charm. She felt a 
dislike for womanhood on account of the manifold dangers by which 
it is surrounded. She prayed A'nanda to turn her into a man. Her 
feminity disappeared, she renounced the world, and was soon enobled 
as an Arhat. There was no bound to Divakara's delight when he 
heard of the sudden change of his son's fortune. Suvarnavarna, 
renounced the world, and became an Arhat. The king no longer counte- 
nanced Prachanda. He withdrew his protection from him, and proclaimed 
him an outlaw. He was kicked, insulted, and severely beaten by those 
whom in his prosperity he had injured. In his distress Prachanda, too, 
sought the protection of A'nanda. He entered the Pravrajya, and be- 
come an virhat. 

The king then enquired from A'nanda the reasons why Suvarna- 
varna, Kas'isundari,^and Prachanda, though so different in their dis- 
positions, should come to the same end. The reply is grain in the next 
chapter. 

III. — When Lord Vipasyi was at Bandhumati, there lived a merchant 
named Karna in that city. His wife was enciente when he went 
on a distant voyage. During his absence his house was destroyed by 
fire, his lands inundated, and his wealth stolen. The son that was born 
unto him was extremely ugly, full of a putrid smell in his body, and uni- 
versally disliked. His wife lived in a wretched hovel, and maintained 
herself by menial service. All her servants left her, except one faithful 
maid, who was personally attached to her. The son was named Virupa 
on account of his ugliness. His mother maintained him by serving as a 
maidservant. But in a short time she could not even find menial employ- 
ment. Virupa was obliged to beg from door to door ; but the offensive 
smell issuing from his body disgusted every one. People hooted him, 
and pelted stones at him. He had to pass days together without even 



279 

a morsel of food. Mortified at this, Virupa went to his father's garden, 
determined to put a period to his existence. 

Karna, the merchant, returned home at this time, having lost all hiss 
wealth by a shipwreck. But there he found no relief. He found his house, 
his wealth, his land, everything gone. His wife was in a most wretched 
state, lean, lank and cheerless. These sudden and rapid reverses of fortune, 
induced him to worship the Lord. He went to Vipas'yl, and surrendered 
himself at his feet. By this piece of good work he obtained a boon never 
after to become poor even for a day. Virupa was at this time lying almost 
dead in his father's garden ; Lord Vipas'pi revivified him ; removed the 
offensive smell from his person ; and turned his ugliness into beauty. 
His skin became of a golden colour. That maidservant of Karna, who 
had not deserted his wife in her distress, also obtained Arhatship from 
Yipas'yi. 

Karna invited the Lord to his house, and entertained him with his 
whole congregation. He also performed the ceremony of Chaityavrata. 

When the king Bandhuman expired he was succeeded by his son 
S^riman. S riman, dying without an heir, was succeeded by Virupa, now 
called Surupa on account of the transformation. Surupa lived long and 
made his kingdom prosperous and happy. 

Surupa was Suvarnavarna ; Karna, Divakara ; Karna's wife, Diva- 
kara's wife ; her faithful maid was Kas'isundari ; and the maid servant 
of Karna was Prachanda. 

Ajatas'atru then asked A'nanda the reason why should Suvarna- 
varna be placed on the stake though he was guiltless ? 
A'nandu replied : — 

Chandra was a great Buddha. At the time of his advent there was 
in a Vihara a Bhikshu, who preached to Brahmanas and others. Once 
on a time another Bhikshu, named Ajita, came to that Vihara. He was 
very eloquent, and a perfect master of the art of oratory. He soon eclipsed 
the fame of the Bhikshu of the Vihara. He wanted to ruin Ajita. He 
caused a calumny to be spread by a Brahman girl that Ajita had unlawful 
connection with her. When Ajita complained that such ugly things should 
be whispered against his stainless character, he was told that he deserved 
to be placed on the stake for his crime. Ajita, disgusted at the conduct 
Of the Bhikshu of the Vihdra, left the place. Now the ey6s of the new 
Bhikshu was opened. He found that he had done wrong. He pursued 
Ajita to a great distance, fell at his feet, and obtained his pardon. Su- 
varnavarna was that Bhikshu. Because he had uttered the harsh words 



280 

" you deserve the stake for your crime" he was placed on the stake. 
He was rich, because he performed the Chaityavrata. 

After the relation of these stories both Ajatas'atru and Divakara 
performed the Chaityavrata. 

Beginning, v^ »r^T 'Cw^'sir^ l %*Tsft i^flT'T'^WTSTs^flTsi^TS^I'^ I 

Jl^ft ^«i^ VJI^frf 'l^frr fif^'ffi JTffWfJT ^'^T^TJg^r fw^'cr^^iiT 

End. ^ra^ flf reM; v^: '^'T^TT^iiWfn'rwT^rar tj^^T^^^TW^i^ ^l=«:«t- 

Colophon. ^f?r ^<TR?T^*ii^i^t «^^WT^«ti^ '$f!iwrsr?t«T«)t srit^n^^'f 1 



No. B, 43. 
CHAITYA-PUl^GAVA. 

Substance, Nepalese yellow paper, 13 x 3 inches. Folia, 38. Lines on 
each page, 5. Extent in ^lokas, 1,700. Character, Newari. Date, N. S. 
905. Appearance, old. Prose. Incorrect. 

On a rite called Chaitya-pu'ilgava or the adoration of Chaityas, and 
the rituals and merits thereof. 



281 

When the Lord was seated under a palm tree in a grove of Cham- 
paka trees in the hermitage of Vis'vaehandraka, near the town of 
Padmapuri, he noticed that his followers were thinking of what he had 
said regarding the rite of Chaityas. Thereupon he caused the apparition 
of a jewelled Chaitya to appear in the sky, and then, at the request of a Bo - 
dhisattva, Suchetana by name, caused a tumulus {chaitya) of crystals to rise 
on the earth, and gave directions for the performance of the rite in question. 
The chaitya is to be made of pure clay mixed with the five products of 
the cow, the five nectars, the five jewels and the five aromatics. The 
mixture is then to be kneaded seven times while repeating the Samanta- 
bhadra mantra. The shape is to be a rounded one with a tapering top. The 
figure, being then anointed with oil, is to be placed in the centre of an 
altar, duly worshipped, and then cut across in a slanting direction. 
From the womb of the bisected figure the light of chaitya, {chaitya, 
vimha — what this is I know not) is to be extracted, and placed 
on a jewelled throne, and there worshipped according to the ritual 
given in the text. The six Paramitas are to be duly observed during 
the time the worship is made. This leads to questions from Suche- 
tana as to — how men descend from the region of the Devas ? how 
they become Devas ? and how they pass from one mortal shape to 
another ? The Lord replies that those who follow the practice of 
the Yoga, are merciful, attached to truth, devoid of anger, malice, 
and delusion, engaged in beneficent works, and follow the right 
path, repair to the region of the Devas. Those who are virtuous, 
obedient to their tutors, and respectful to good people, pass from one 
human body to another. Those who are otherwise become after 
death devils, Asuras and inferior animals, according to their deserts. 
Thereupon Vis'vabhadra, a person of noted charity, who was present in 
the assembly, immediately obtained conversion, and attained Arhat- 
hood. Requested to explain the cause of this sudden translation, the 
Lord said Vis'vabhadra was, in a former existence, a Brahman of great 
learning, master of the four Vedas and of all the Sastras. Finding 
them to be false, he betook to the constant worship of Chaityas and to 
the dissemination of the true religion whereby many persons obtained 
the highest reward, and through the merit of those works he now 
attained Arhatship. 

The rite here described is obviously the same with the Chaitya- 
vrata noticed in the next preceding work. 
36 



282 
Beginning. <#■ stb: 'si'^^^'? i 

^c^'HrlT^Tfl-^ ^^^^-^ iT%rTl« gsf^'sJ 5T<T^ ^r^' I 

l^f^ rf^if^^ TfTsrarirf ^^tr)'^ ^'sl^'TTf stt^ n 

End. ^riiT^ V^mii ^^: ^fg-^r^ ^^T Hri: I 

)w4t Jii^^w? «^^t sifg^rfr; 11 



No. B, 56. 
CHANA.KYA-SARASAi^GRAHA. 

■1 

Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 10 x 4i inches. Folia, 58. Lines 
on a page, 7. Extent in slokas, 830. Character, Newari. Date, ? 
Appearance, old. Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

An amplified version o£ Chanakya's collection o£ moral maximg. 
The recension current in Bengal contains only 108 stanzas. The quota- 
tions are mostly from the Mahabharata and other Hindu works, and the 
collection professes to be a Hindu work. It has got currency among the 
Buddhists from the circumstance of the maxims inculcated being o-ood 
and not very sectarial. 

Beginning, ^tnii^i^ ^w- I ^'^sfTKT^'nT^ iK: i 



283 

ff^'i ^sjci'^rftr sTtmrt f%rrqiTjJi?)T I 
End. iTTfwf^l^ tf ^ ^fflfw: ^Rj^Tf^fn: i 

^TJgf gi^; ^frf g-^r Jrwr'fl: sCH^-^ ii i« • 



No. B, 51. 
DHVAJAGRAKEYtJEI' DHA'RANI'. 

*\ 
Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 7 X 2| inches. Folia, 7. Lines on a 
page, 5. Extent in slokas, 80. Ctaraeter, Newari. Date, ? Appearance, 
old. Prose. Incorrect. 

A charm for ensuring success in warfare. Indra, having been over- 
powered by other gods, sought the protection of the Lord, and the Lord, 
out of his overflowing kindness, taught him this charm which, he said, he 
had obtained from a Tathagata of the name of Dhvaja. The charm 
begins with the words Jaya jaya vijaya vijaya jayanakini saAkari 
prasaitkari jprafafthari Ihanjani prahhanjani, &c. 

Beginning. «* srWT »iJr^?§ ^n5s^5>T^%^':r^ I t^ ii«JT^fr^*%^^ ^ii% hjrtt 
End. T^^r^l'HT'n'nflsiTflflSfr^ ■% fww^# '^ trfV^m: «r "^ ^sli^n't 



284 

No. B, 
GI TAPUSTAKA. 

Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 10 x 3| inches. Folia, 50. Lines 
on a page, 5. Extent in slokas, 600. Character, Newari. Date, N. S. 230. 
Appearance, old. Verse. Generally correct. 

A collection of Newarl hymns adapted for singing, the tune and 
the music being regularly noted against each hymn. 

Beginning. KJV, Jta^nii 1 «Tr^U'fiT<smiy | f^^KT'i'? f^'s^f^^i f^^f^-J^i^r^iK 

Tfllfi? 'IflTft? stfllffl ^l^^X ^qt^fsff ^'SJT ^ufrgt ^titflfsif^qi 
ft^T^i^ f SUITK fl^T^ ^<?^f ^^r II i? II 

End. ^ra^^ST^ ^ «^ ^3^^^^^H13 ^''3^ n^^^rfsr ^ ^ni^JtT^f%- 

Tirrf -^mm ^ ^*rai iajari'^ ^j^'^Krafsn ii s ii 
^gW«fHx;'tt=w^ st'^'^isqif^ifT ftw^uRffwici ^^rwf^Jii =? 5^9- 



No. B, 62. 
KATHINA AVADANA. 

Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 13 x 4 inches. Folia, 7. Lines on 
a page, 7. Extent in ^okas, 200. Character, Newari. Date, ? Appear- 
ance, old. Prose. Incorrect. 

On the merits of charity, abstinence, fee, during the period of the 
Buddhist lent called Kathina. This period extends to thirty days 
from the 1st of the new moon in the month of A's'vina. Gifts to 
Bbikshus and recital of stories in praise of charity are the principal 
observances. The rules were expounded by the Lord himself at the request 
of Kas'yapa. The Lord thereafter repaired to the Gandhamadana mountain 
along with a following of 500 ascetics. Arriving at the Anavatapta 
Lake, the Lord and his following sat each on a jewelled lotus as large as 
a cart wheel, and then Nagira, a Bhikshu, said that having cheerfully givea 



285 

alms during the period of lent he had never suffered from any misfortune 
for thirty great kalpas, and for eighteen kalpas had enjoyed the pleasures 
of heaven ; on sixty-four occasions he had become Indra, eighty times a 
Chakravarti monarch, &c., &c. Kas'yapa, Sumana, Mangalyayana and 
others made similar confessions. The object of the work seems to be to 
enjoin confession during the lent. 

Beginning. «^ srwr ^s^^T'? I vt "ii^JiTsr ggxTTgrKft^ff^T^TTf^^Tf^fr: ^I'gi^ 
End. f^wfa^fT^l?:! iwft ^T^ang'i: sj5jTSff3^ir<@^T "^ft^^i^l^fr- 



No. A, 16. 
KARUNA'-PUNDARIKA. 



Substance yellow Nepalese paper, 13 X 5| inches. Folia, 126. Lines 
on each page, 11. Extent in slokas, 4,500. Character, Newari. Date, ? 
Appearance, old. Prose. Incorrect. 

Account of a continent called Padmadhatu, of its king Aranemi, of his 
priest and 500 sons, and of its Tathagata Eatnagarbha, interspersed with 
many anecdotes and stories, concluding with directions for the dissemination 
of the true religion on the Nirvana of the Lord. The work is divided into 
five chapters fparivartasj, and its leading expounder is Sakya him- 
self, speaking in response to queries of Maitreya and others. The work 
was translated into the Chinese under the name of Pei-hwa-king by 
Dharmaraksha, of the northern Liang dinasty (Circa 502—555.) 

Contents, I. — Description of the continent of Padma. The scene 
opens with an account of an assembly held on the Vulture Peak near 
Eajagriha. The Lord commenced a discourse on the great secret 
Sdtra entitled mar^dvaisdrad2/a,wihens\xiienly rays of light of various 



286 

colours issued forth and illumined all the three thousand regionsj evea 
to the depth of the darkest hell, where the light of the sun and the mooa 
had never reached before j Buddhist sacred places became specially resplen- 
dent thereby ; the earth shook in six different rays ; heavenly flowers fell 
in showers ; and celestial music resounded everywhere. Beholding these 
prodigies Batnavairochana uncovered one of his shoulders and, kneeling 
on his right knee, addressed the Lord in order to know whence these 
wonders came forth. The Lord thereupon gave an account of a region 
named Padma. It was situated to the south-east of Jambudvipa. It 
contained Buddhist sacred places, innumberable as the grains of sand on 
the banks of the river Ganges. The Bodhi tree there was named Indra, 
and under it, there was a lotus 500 yojanas in circumference, seated 
on a stalk made of lapis-lazuli ; the leaves of this plant were of gold, each 
leaf being 15 yojanas in circumference. On this lotus sat the Tathagata 
Padmottara, and around him were Bodhisattvas innumerable, each 
seated on a lotus. At the last watch of the night Padmottara attained 
Buddhahood, and at early dawn set the avaivartika wheel in motion, 
and thereupon millions over millions of rays of light issued forth, and 
these were the causes of the prodigies. 

II. — In reply to the questions of Batnavairochana the Lord gave 
further descriptions of the continent of Padma and of Padmottara. The 
size of the continent of Padma was such that were one by a miracle 
to pound down the great Sumeru mountain to grains each not bigger 
than a mustard seed, multiply those grains four times, and spread 
them smoothly side by side, the area covered would represent the extent of 
that continent. Padmottara had 30 kalpas for the duration of his life. 
After his Nirvana the true religion lasted for ten kalpas, aud then 
Bodhisattvas who had been born there lived for 40 kalpas. Formerly 
this continent was named Chandanalokadhatu, and it had been minis- 
tered by the Tathagata named Chandrottama for 20 kalpas. At the 
request of Gaganamudra, a Bodhisattva, that saint had prophesied that 
ten kalpas after his Nirvana Padmottara would be born. He also taught 
that Bodhisattva certain Dharanis of great potency. 

III. — On the miraculous powers of Padmottara. Santimati, a Bodhi- 
sattva, enquired of the Lord how it was that while other Tathagatas 
acquired perfection by overcoming the five attachments, Padmottara 
attained Buddhahood while retaining them. The five attachments are — 
the attachment for existence {A'yuh hasMi/a) ; that of fancy {Kalpa 
lashaya) ; that of beings {Sattiia kashaya)^ that of sight {Drish^i 



287 

Tcashaya) ; and that of pain. He then related the story of Aranemi^ 

This king lived in a very remote kalpa named Dharma. His household 

priest was Samudrarenu, whose son Samudragarbha, relinquishing his 

homej attained the perfect Bodhi knowledge, and assumed the name of 

Ratnagarbha. Attended by a numerous retinue of Bhikshus, he travelled 

from country to country, and at last arrived at a Jambu grove near 

the metropolis of Aranemi. The news of this arrival reaching Aranemi, 

the king immediately came to him, and solicited his abidance at the place 

as his guest for three months. On the expiry of this period one 

thousand sons of Aranemi, one after another, made a similar request, and 

the saint granted it in every instance. When thrice one thousand months 

had expired Samudrarenu invited and entertained his son for seven years _ 

Once this Brahmana speculated on what could be the object of Aranemi in 

entertaining the saint. Does he aspire to the position of a Deva ? or of an 

Indra ? or of the possession of illimitable wealth and power ? or of the 

perfect Bodhi knowledge ? That night he dreamt a dream. He saw that 

Buddhas from innumerable sacred places had sent him presents of lotuses 

having leaves of gold, stalks of silver, and pericarps of lapislazuli. On 

each lotus was seen a sun, with a jewelled umbrella over it, and six billions 

of rays issued from each sun, and fell on his face. He, moreover, saw 

his own self clear as a mirror of the expanse of a thousand yojanas, 

and in it he beheld sixty billions of Bodbisattvas seated on lotuses, and 

celestial music resounding therein. He saw, too, the king Aranemi seated, 

with the. face of a hog and his body bespattered with blood, under a 

castor plant after devouring various animals there. Other animals 

feasted on the bones that were left after the meal of their king. The 

Brahman then saw some of the princes, with faces of jackals, wolves, 

boars, lions and dogs and bespattered with blood, chasing other animals, 

and after feasting on their bodies seating themselves under castor trees. 

Other animals feasted on the remains of the animals destroyed. He saw 

ether princes richly dressed and ornamented, mounted on chariots drawn 

by buffaloes, addressing him thus: "Divide these lotuses among the 

kino- and the princes." He did so, and then, waking up, went to the 

saint and asked the meaning of the dream. The saint did so, and also 

expounded the meaning of the details of the dream ; adding — " Since you 

have for the good of creation entertained us for seven years, you will acquire 

the perfect knowledge." The Brahman then learnt the true knowledge, 

and advised the king and fhe princes to retire from worldly affairs, and 

to devote themselves to the contemplation of true knowledge for seven 



288 

years. They confined themselves in their chambers, and did so. After 
a time Samudrarenu requested his son to invite them to his presence. 
The saint performed a Samadhi from which issued forth various lights ; 
he then called the parties to his presence, and blessed them. 

IV. — Lord Padmaprabha, having performed the Samadhi named 
BodhisaUvachiUdpromosha, gently smiled, whereupon a brilliant light 
spread all over the universe, and made all Buddhist sacred places manifest 
to the king and the rest of the congregation. The king then prayed the 
Lord to be translated to a world where there was no hell, no avarice, no 
region of Yama ; where all beings were brilliant as gold and endowed 
with the memory of their former existence, and with such transcendental 
sight that they could behold all Buddhist sacred places, and be ever 
devoted to the true religion. The Lord directed him towards the west, 
to a world which was named Sudrasuvirajita, and which tallied in every 
respect with the description. The Tathagata of this world was Indra- 
ghoshas'vararaja. After many ages this Tathagata would be followed 
by Achintamatigururaja who would be followed by Maraprabha. The 
true religion would last for 16 kalpas and then disappear. It would 
be revived by Rashmi a thousand kalpas afterwards. Then will come 
Ravores'vara who will be followed by Aparameya, after whom you will 
be a Tathagata under the name of Amitayuh, when that world would be 
called Sukhavati. The king's sons then, one after another, came forward, 
and prayed for the perfect knowledge, and each of them was assured 
that he would become a Buddha at some time or other. The five sons of 
the Brdhman and a number of others obtained the blessing of salvation. 
The Brahman appeared last, and he was told that in the Kali age, he would 
appear as S'akya Siiiha, and that a thousand years after his ministry the 
religion would disappear, (a prophecy which has not been verified, unless 
we take it to mean India only). 

V. — At the request of the Brahman, Padmaprabha then gave 
descriptions, among many others of the following Samadhis, viii., Suraii- 
gamd, Eatnamudra, Sinha-vikridita, and Suchandra. He gave in detail 
also the merits of these Samadhis. Thereupon the king with his one 
thousand sons and numerous followers and officers retired from the world, 
and accepted the initiatory rite of asceticism. On the Nirvana of Ratnagar- 
bha seven jewelled Chaityas were erected on his remains, and the Brahmaii 
Samudrarenu became the teacher, and spread wide the knowledge of the 
great truth for many kalpas, after which he was born in the family of a 
Chandala in Sankarakana, a Buddhist region of great sanctity. His 



289 

teachings there were highly appreciated, and they served to raise the 
duration of human life to five hundred years from eighty years, which 
was the duration before his birth. He was, moreover, on the death of the 
king, appointed king, under the name of Punyabala. By his might 
and valour he brought the whole of Jambudvipa under his sway. Once 
he proclaimed that he would give any gift that his people sought of 
him. Thousands over thousands came and got what they wanted, but at 
last came one Pansughosha, a Jivaka, who said he wished to become a 
Vidyadhara in his present existence, and for that purpose required the 
skin and eyes of a living man to be given him by that person cheerfully 
and without any scruple. This was a hard prayer to grant, but the king 
was not unequal to it. He plucked out his eyes from their sockets, and 
gave them away, and told the beggar to skin the body as he listed. After 
death, he was again born in the family of a Chandala, raised to the rank 
of a king, and ultimately brought to his end by giving away his tongue 
and ears to beggars. He was then born as king Indradhvaja. He had a 
thousand sons, all of whom, except six, retired from the world, and became 
hermits. He divided Jambudvipa into six parts, gave the parts to his 
householding sons, and himself retired to a hermitage. In his next 
birth he was king Pradipapradyota. On one occasion, having seen a man 
tied to a post, be asked why was the man so treated ? His minister reported 
that the person had failed to pay the king's dues. The king ordered 
him to let the man loose at once. 

The minister hesitated, adding if the man were let loose he would 
set a bad example, and no one would pay any government revenue. 

The king enquired, " Do all people require pressure to pay revenue?^' 
He answered, " Yes, Sire, no one pays any revenue of his own 

accord." 

Disgusted with the world, the king made over his kingdom to his 
five hundred sons, and retired to a hermitage. While there, he perceived, 
by his miraculous power, that five hundred merchants had lost their way 
on the ocean in darkness, and were in imminent danger of being lost. He 
then tied some cloth on his forearm, steeped it in oil, set fire to it, and held 
it up as a beacon for the merchants to find their way. In his next birth 
he was king Ambara alias Sarvandada. A Vedic student, named Jyotlrasa, 
begged of him the kingdom of tlie earth, and it was forthwith given. 
Next came Rocha, a Brahman, who asked and obtained the two legs of 
the king. Next came DishtSrava, another Brdhman, who wanted the 
king's eyes. The king immediately plucked them out, and gave them 
37 



290 

away. Then came yet another Brahman, who wanted the king's ears. 
Others came forward, all Brahmans, and begged suceessively for the 
remaining members of the king's person, and they were all readily 
satisfied. In his next birth he became a Naga king, Nidhisandarsana 
by name, and in this state he gave away a profusion of rare jewels, and 
this is the person who after a few other births has become S'akya 
Siiiha. The chapter concludes with an eulogium on the merits of hearing, 
reading, knowing, bearing on the person this auspicious Mahayana 
sutra. 
Beginning. >^ ^w: w^l^^tifsi^^wrSfftcnsnirrrstfJJHj^Hi: i 

-^ srflTJT^wfTflT'rfl: i 

t# TT^IT ^ff^^fgpr ^W^ «JI^I^ ^^I^t f^'?^flT ^ I 32^1^ l4^ 

aurcfltnKfffHTgmfHWTTTrwgra^^T^rr^t: x.r^]T^ i ft^ m^ jf: 
^fijpf wi^i^ff^fV: ^^%l ^fKstI■. ^vmtn ^■m^rt^^n: ^ifsr^T- 

End. ^^3zw^«^^T« "SPHIJ^T^ ^T^qf^*fr«iT q^rosjf t "T'A'Cikt- 

Colophon. ^^iiii'^iS^ siTfl fl'^r^TT^^ ^vrn II 



291 

No. B, 50. 
EATNA-PARIKSHi^. 

Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 9x3 inches. Folia, 45. Lines on 
a page, 7. Extent in £okas, 650. Character, Newari. Date, N. S. 934. 
Prose and verse. Incorrect. 

Oa the merits and defects of precious stones and jewels. By 
Buddha Bhattacb^rya. The articles noticed are diamond, pearl, eme- 
rald, carbuncle, ruby, sapphire, lapislazuli, bhishma (?) , crystal, and coral. 
The work is in Sanskrit verse, and its meaning is explained in Newdri 
prose. As usual in Sanskrit works of this class, great importance is 
attached to good and ill luck, the jewels are calculated to bring on under 
particular astrological and other circumstances. 
Beginning. -# sf^TK^^'sim I sm: ^^qr^^^Hi: | i;bi'^-51T^ W^SRiq^f^frT^ 

End. 5TrJi%T»i^i?««niri^T^sf^^T^ U^tv^ ^srsfsff^^^^m *iijg^?jqiK 

Colophon, t^ti ^t^^^TfT'^nQawT kwit^i ^war i 



Nos. B 5, and B 65. 
DHARANIS. 



No. B 5 has already been noticed, (p. 80) but the description given 
does not convey a full idea of its contents. It comprises 39 Dharanis 
designed for averting various evils, or securing certain desiderated 
blessings. B 65 contains 12, some of which are included in B 5. Prom 
the illustrations given of Dhdranis in the preceding pages, the nature of 
Dharanis and the unintelligible jargon in which they have been written 
have already been made clear, and nothing further need be said of them 
here All of them have been attributed to S'akya Sinha himself, who 



292 

declares that he had got them from previous Buddhas, or designed them 
himself by his miraculous power. Each Dharani is preceded by a 
brief account of' the circumstances which led to its being promulgated, 
and followed by an enumeration of the benefits to be derived by 
wearing them enclosed in amulets, or hearing them frequently repeated. 
No. B 5 comprises the following Dharanis, viz. : — 
1, Harahara-hridaya ; Z, AbhayaAkari ; 3, Sahasravarta ; 4, Siiiha- 
nada; 5, Shadaksharita-mahavidya; 6, Avalokitesvara-siddhinika ; 7, 
Do. S'ilakantha ; 8, Amoghapas'a ; 9, Tara; 10, Chan da; 11, Moksha- 
padcl; IS, Chandabhattarikaraksha; 13, Sarvalokes'vara; 14, Manjusri- 
pratijnaj 15, Do. sadhana; 16, Maitreya; 17, SaddharmapStha ; 18, 
Vajratara; 19, Paramitayur ; 20, Sarvadurgati ; 31, Vasundhara ; 23, 
Vajravidarana ; 23, Ganapatihridaya ; 24, Ushnisavijaya ; 25, Marichi ; 
26, Parnasavari ; 27, Grihamatrika; 28, Dhvajagrakeyuri ; 29-30, Prati- 
sara, 1st and 2ndj 31 and Mahasahasrapramardini ; 33, Mahamayuri ; 
2t3, Sitavatimahavidya ; 34, MabarakshamantraBusarini ; 35, Panohavin- 
satika-prajnaparamitahridaya ; 36, Hemagatha ; 37, Mahamayavijaya- 
Tahini-narayana-prichchha ; 38, LaiikavatSra ; 39, Vasundharavrata- 
purvamtirtya-mandala. 

No. B 65 contains — 1, Pitavarna-prajnaparamita; 3, Vajracharchika ; 
3, TJshnishavijaya-sadhana ; 4, Mahanama-sadhana;^ 5, Parnasavari; 
6, Vajragandha; 7, Vajravarahi ; 8, Vajragandhari ; 2, Bhadrachari ; 
10, Prajnaparamita-hridaya ; 1], VasundharS; 13. Tardbhattarikaya- 
n^mSshtottara-s'ata — the hundred and eight names of Tara. 



No. B 55. 
KALPADRUM A- AV AD ANA. 



Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 14 x 34 inches. Folia, 305. Lines 
on a page, 8. Extent in ilokas, 9,760. Character, Newari. Date, Sm. 
884. Appearance, fresh. Versa. Generally correct. 



293 

A collection of stories alleged to have been related to As'oka by 
Upagupta in illustration of the merits of various acts of virtue. 

Contents, I. 8tory of Sundara. When As'oka held his court at 
Pataliputra, some merchants came to his presence, and offered him many- 
valuable presents. The king was greatly pleased, and, proud of the 
personal beauty of his son Kunala, showed him to them, and asked them if 
they had, in course of their peregrinations on the face of the earth, ever seen 
a more handsome boy. They replied in the affirmative, and said that the 
name of the youth they had seen was Sundara, and that on his birth a 
beautiful tank and a fine garden were produced, which were greatly attached 
to him, and followed him wherever he went. He was immediately sent for, 
and the king was greatly surprised at the unrivalled beauty of the boy, 
and his wonderful attendants. To solve the mystery, he repaired to his 
religious tutor, Upagupta, at the monastery of Kukkutarama. He was 
followed by the youth who, listening to the teachings of the saint, begged 
to be ordained, and was immediately assigned the rank of an Arhat. 
Even more surprised than before, the king begged for explanation. 
Upagupta replied — on the nirvana of the Lord S'dkya Buddha his principal 
disciple Kas'yapa roamed about in great distress of mind. A farmer of 
the Magadha country, seeing him and his five hundred followers in their 
distress, received them kindly, offered them fresh clear water for bathing, 
and entertained them with food with every mark of devotion. Kas'yapa 
was much pleased with this hospitality, and at the request of the farmer, 
said that he would in a future life become, as he desired, an Arhat. " That 
farmer is born as Sundara, and his former good deeds have now fructified 

in Arhatship." 

II. Story of Furmlhadra alias Samjaurria, Given in the Avadana- 

s'ataka, ante, p. 17. 

III. Story of Sdrihavala. Ditto ditto, ante, p. 31. 

IV. Btory of Chandana. When the lord was travelling in the 
Magadha country, his followers noticed an old, weather-worn, dilapidated 
chaitya, and enquired to whose honour it had been erected. The Lord 
said it had been erected by the disciples of a former Buddha, named 
Chandana, and, in reply to further enquiries gave an account of the 
Buddha in question. In former times Brahmadatta, king of Benares, 
worshipped many gods in the hope of getting a son ; but to no avail. 
Once he noticed with surprise an infant in the cup of a lotus. The child 
was very beautiful, and had the aroma of sandal wood on his body. 



294 

for which reason he was named Chaudana. When the boy grew up and 
walked about, at every step he movedj a lotus was produced. This lotus 
sparkled for a short time and then withered away. The youth, studying 
this fact, thought that since the produce of his body was evanescent, his 
body must likewise be so. Thinking so he lost all attachment for worldly 
objects, and devoted himself to religion. Through the effect of his former 
good deeds and his devotion he became, under the direction of Lord 
Kas'yapa, a Pratyak Buddha, and on his nirvana his disciples erected the 
stupa. He was very assiduous in offering sandal-paste and lotus flowers 
to the ehaitya of Kas'yapa, and thence resulted the peculiar aroma of 
his body and the production of lotus flowers from his feet. This story 
occurs also in the Dvavinsa Avadana, ante, p. 88. Anecdotes regarding 
Chandana occur on pp. 22, 23 and 198. 

V. Story of Prityapreta. Given in the Avadana-s'ataka, ante, p. SO. 

VI. Story of Krishnasarpa. A householder of great wealth but 
of an excessively miserly disposition, dying in the town of Rajagriha, 
became a black serpent in a garden of king Vimbisara, and killed by his 
very sight whoever came near him. The king, not knowing how to destroy 
this dreadful reptile, went to the Lord, who was then sojourning in the 
Bamboo Grove, and sought his assistance. Thereupon the Lord repaired 
to the garden, and cast a benign look on the serpent. The serpent was 
charmed by the sight, and mentally abjured all wicked thoughts. The 
Lord brought him to his monastery, and instructed him in the principles 
of religion. So instructed, the serpent killed himself by continuous 
fasting, and repaired to the Trayasinha heaven. There, however, he did 
not feel satisfied. He longed to serve the Lord, and therefore came back 
to the earth, and became a disciple of the Lord, who taught him all the 
rules, principles, and precepts of religion, and made him an adept. Tho- 
roughly enlightened by this teaching, the serpent, now a Deva, pointed out 
to the king Vimbisara the spot where he had kept his wealth concealed in 
the garden, and, requesting him to devote it to religious purposes, returned 
to heaven. 

VII. Story of Suvarmhha, Given in the Avadana-s ataka, ante, 
p. 84. 

VIII. Story of Prahhava- She was the maiden daughter of 
a rich merchant of S'ravasti. Courted by princes and other great people 
of the town, she rejected their addresses, and betook to the Lord, who 
ordained her an Arhat. The good deed which secured her this high 



295 

honour was her devotion, in a former life, when she was the chief queen 
of king Bandhumat, to the Lord Vipas'yi, to whom she gave all her 
valuable ornaments. This story forms the 71st Avadana of the Avadana- 
s'ataka, but the name given her there is S'ukla, ef. p. 35. 

IX. Story of Samudra. Samudra was the son of a rich merchant 
of S'rSvasti. He was born on board of a ship when his father was 
returning from a voyage to the island of Ratnakara, and thereby got 
his name of Samudra or the ocean. When he attained his majority, his 
father sent him to Ratnakara on a commercial mission, in the company 
of a large body of experienced merchants. Out in the sea, his vessel was 
overtaken by a hurricane, and was in imminent risk of being lost. His 
companions, finding all other resources vain, began to pray, invoking 
S'iva, Rudra, Ganesa, Narayana, Indra, Yama, &c., each according to his 
fancy, but the gods granted them no help. At last an old Buddhist 
advised them to pray to Buddha, who alone could help them. They did 
so, and the Lord, knowing of it, created a golden coloured blaze of light 
the sight of which frightened the storm, which at once subsided. The 
voyage subsequently proved prosperous, and the merchants returned home, 
laden with wealth. Nor were they unmindful of the divinity who had 
helped them. They repaired to the Jetavana grove where the Lord was 
then sojourning, and offered rich presents. Listening to his religious 
discourses, they were induced to pray for initiation, and were accordingly 
ordained Arhats. In explanation of the merits which ensured them this 
blessing the Lord said, in former times there lived on the sea-shore a 
kind-hearted Buddhist hermit, learned in the Vedas, cherishing the sacred 
fire, dressed in a blanket, having matted locks on his head, and support- 
ing himself on roots and fruits. A body of five hundred traders came 
to him from Benares, worshipped him, attained his blessings, and then 
proceeded to the island of Ratnakara for commerce. In the way, on their 
return voyage, their ship was overtaken by a fearful storm, and was on 
the point of foundering. They called to mind the hermit on the shore, 
and prayed for his help. They were saved, and they made their acknow- 
ledgments to the saint for his miraculous interposition, and prayed for 
spiritual blessing. The hermit said, " When I shall become a Buddha, 
the leader of men, I shall place you in the asylum of Buddhism. I am 
that hermit, and these merchants headed by Samudra, are the traders of 

old." 

X. Story of Suhhuti. During the ministry of the Lord S'akya 



296 

Sinha a large number o£ his disciples were deputed to different parts of 
of the earth to disseminate his doctrines. Some of the disciples had taken 
their way to the top of the Himalaya mountain. When they were 
engaged in their meditation there, a Garuda perched on a peak, 
holding a serpent in its beak. The serpent, seeing the pious men, resolved 
to become one like them in his next birth. He was born as the son of 
a Brahman householder of S'ravasti, and was named Subhuti, after his 
mother Bbiiti. When grown up, he became passionate in his disposition, 
and the least annoyance would put him into violent fits of anger. His 
father sent him to school, and had him instructed in all the learning of 
the Brahmans, including the Vedas, but the education did not suffice to 
improve his disposition. His tutor, failing in his other endeavours, at 
last directed him to betake to a hermit's life, and pass his time in medita- 
tion in a forest. He did so, and while he was so engaged, a sylvan goddess 
appeared before him and said, " Why are you, good man, passing your 
time in meditation in this solitary place, converting yourself into a log of 
wood, or a block of stone ? If you long for religion, betake to the doctrine 
of Buddha." She then exhibited a miraculous temple in the air, and 
disappeared. The sight of the temple purified the mind of the youth, 
and he sought the asylum of the Lord, and was duly ordained a Sravaka 
of the highest rank. In reply to a question of his audience the Lord said, 
" in a former existence, when the span of human life extended to twenty 
thousand years, this man had performed Brahmacharya for a thousand 
years at Benares under the tuition of the Lord Kas'yapa, and obtained a 
boon that during my ministry he>would become a S'ravaka of the highest 
rank. In a subsequent existence he was rough of speech and quarrel- 
some in the monastery where he lived, and that led to his being born a 
poison- mouthed serpent for five hundred generations." 

XI. Story of Tasovaii. When Lord S'akya Sinha was sojourning 
in a palace on the bank of the Markata tank, in Vais all, he thought of 
Tasovati, the daughter in-law of Sinha Senapati, as a person who had 
been destined to become a Buddhist, and went to pay her a visit. He and 
his followers were received with great respect by the lady, and most sump- 
tuously treated. Afterwards when he was seated at ease and discoursing 
on religion, the lady offered him a profusion of gold jewels and rich 
dresses. Through the miraculous power of the Lord these flew up in 
the air and formed a canopy over the head of the Lord. The Lord then 
smiled, and out from his mouth issued a flame of light which irradiated 



297 

and filled the universe with joy, and, releasing the dwellers o£ hell from 
their bondage, disappeared in the matted locks of the Lord. The Lord 
then said, " three Kalpas hence this lady will acquire the highest perfection 
in true knowledge, and become a Buddha under the name of Ratnamati." 

XII. Story of the Kauravj/as. In course of his travels the 
Lord once came to the suburbs of the city of Kaurava, and the people 
of that place, hearing of his advent, felt great delight, and prepared 
to go and welcome him. The Tirthikas of the place, however, did not 
like this excitement, and went from door to door to dissuade the people 
from seeing the Lord. They spread evil reports of him, and reviled him 
in every way. Those among the people who were wicked listened to 
their advice, and refrained from visiting him ; but a few good persons 
among them came. The Tirthikas, having prevented ttie people, them- 
selves came to see him. The Lord felt that it was necessary to show some 
miracles, and accordingly willed. Thereupon Indra came down from 
heaven with heavy loads of Gos'irsha sandal-wood, and employed Vis'va- 
karma to erect a palace. The palace was forthwith completed, and, when 
the Lord had entered it, the Devas worshipped him, and revelled in music, 
song and rejoicings. The news of the festival spread wide, and the people 
of Kaurava, thereby excited, rejected the advice of the Tirthikas, and, 
taking their seats before the Lord, listened to his lecture. The Tirthikas 
remained outside, admiring the sculptured ornaments and the beauty of 
the palace. The Lord perceiving this, suddenly suppressed the palace, and 
appeared seated in an open field. The Tirthikas could no longer resist 
the influence of the Lord ; they fell at his feet, listened to his discourse, 
and got themselves converted. Some became S ravakas, some Pratyak- 
bodhis, some Anuttarabodhis, and some Arhats. Thereupon the Lord 
made the palace manifest again, and dwelt therein for three months. 
" Formerly," said the Lord, " there lived a Buddha named Brahma, and a 
Kshatriya king erected for him a palace of Gos'irsha sandal wood and 
worshipped him there for three months. I am that Kshatriya king." 

XIII. Story of Padmottara. When the Lord was passing through 
the highway of S'ravasti a young lady with her little boy stood 
on the roadside to behold him. When he came near her, the little boy 
threw a lotus to him, and the lotus immediately assumed the size of a cart- 
wheel, and, rising in the air, formed an umbrella over the head of the 
Lord. " This lad," said the Lord to Ananda, " will enjoy all the pleasures 

38 



298 

of the world for a thousand kalpas^ and then become a Pratyak Buddha 
under the name of Padmottara." 

XIV. Story of Chandra. This story occurs in the A.vadana- 
s'ataka (story LII), but the substance of it as given on p. 32, is in- 
correct in some important particulars. The youth went to the Lord with 
Anathapindada only oncCj and, on return home, fell ill of fever, and died. 
On his death he repaired to heaven, but, longing to visit the Lord again, 
came down, and saw his father crying with his corpse on his lap. Appear- 
ing before his father in the garb of a rishi, he asked him why he held 
the corpse in his lap instead of cremating it? The Brahman said, " this is 
the body of my only son, and I want it to be revived." Chandra replied, 
" Were you to cry continuously for a thousand years, it still cannot revive. 
Were the sun to rise towards the West, were fire to be as cold as 
ice, were fishes to dwell on the crests of mountains, still the corpse will 
not regain its life. If you wish for your song's welfare, go and burn his 
bjdy, and throw his bones into the river Ganges." The Brahman could 
not, however, be induced to do as he was told. Chandra, thereupon, 
assumed the shape of a Deva, and gave an account of what had hap- 
pened to him, and advised his father to dispose of the corpse, and betake 
to the asylum of the Three Jewels whereby he would be translated to 
heaven, and there enjoy the society of his son. The Chandra of the 
story was afterwards born as S'dkya. Anecdotes of this person occur 
on pp. 14, 96 and 279. 

XV. Story of Sugandhi. Sugandhi, son of a merchant of Kapila- 
vastu, and noted for having the aroma of the lotus and sandal-wood on 
his body, came to the Lord in the Nyagrodha monastery, and was ordained 
an Arhat. On being asked the reason of this sudden exaltation, the 
Lord said, " this youth had, in a former life, worshipped the chaitya of 
Vipas'yi, and anointed it with aromatic oil, and through the merit thereof 
he has the aroma on his body, and has been so exalted." 

XVI. Story of Supriya. Anathapindada had a daughter, named 
Supriya. Immediately after her birth she looked up towards her mother, 
and recited a gatha to the effect that gifts should be given in profusion to 
Buddhists and Champaka flowers should be strewed on sacred places. Her 
father did as she wished. Afterwards, the instructions of a saint who came 
for alms to her father^s house, made a deep impression on her mind in her 
early girlhood. She had, moreover, the faculty of recalling to mind the 
events of her former existences. On her 7th year she obtained the permission 



299 

of her parents to become a nun, and Gautami, by order of the Lord, ordained 
her. Soon after, a famine breaking out, the Lord directed his followers 
to seek the charity of Supriya. She herself begged alms from poor 
householders, and relieved the distress of all sufBering people. Tliree 
months after, when the Lord was proceeding from S'ravasti to Eaja- 
griha, he arrived at the middle of a forest where no food of any kind 
could be had. Supriyd, seeing that the followers of the Lord would be 
put to great distress, held forth her alms-bowl, and prayed that if she 
had any stock of former good deeds it should help her by filling her 
bowl with food. A forest divinity heard her prayer, and filled her bowl 
with nectar, with which she entertained the Lord and his followers. 
Her good deeds now sufficed to raise her to the rank of an Arhat, the 
adorer of gods. In explaining why he raised her to the rank of an 
Arhat, the Lord said, " formerly in the time of the Lord Kas'yapa, a maid- 
servant, in the city of Benares, was carrying some cakes for her master, 
but, meeting Kas'yapa on the way on his begging excursion, gave him the 
cakes intended for her master. The Lord converted her, and for ten 
thousand years afterwards she had bestowed alms to Buddhists. That 
maid-servant has now been born as Supriya." 

XVII. &tory of Sumana. There lived at S'ravasti a merchant, 
who had successively lost three sons immediately after their birth. He 
once invited a S raniana of the name of Aniruddha, and, after entertain- 
ing him with every mark of respect, prayed that he may have a son wiio 
should not die so early, promising that if the boy lived up to the 
7th year he would present him to his guest. The blessing of the 
saint fulfilled the prayer, and the new-born boy was named Sumana, and 
on his 7th year he was given away to Aniruddha, who made him a 
Bhiks^kand ultimately an Arhat. One day Aniruddha asked the youth 
to brino- same water for his drink. Sumana went to the river, filled 
his pitcher and, rising aloft, came by an aerial passage to serve the water, 
then, carrying the pitcher in his hand, he flew high in the air and, follow- 
ing his aerial course, came to the Jetavana grove where the Lord then 
sojourned. The Bhikshus were struck with wonder at the sight, and 
enquired about the history of this remarkable personage. The Lord said, 
" when the Lord Vipas'yi dwelt at Bandhumati, there lived a rich merchant 
who in his old age, seeing death imminent, worshipped the Lord, and 
prayed that he may be blessed with the absolute knowledge. That merchant 
is now bom as Sumana." 



300 

XVIII. story of Sthaviraka. There lived at R^jdgriha a rich 
householder^ whose wife did not, on the tenth month of her pregnancyj 
bring forth a child. She conceived ten times afterwards, and brought 
forth ten sons, but her first conception remained in her womb. On 
her death, long after, her relatives proposed to open her belly to see 
what had become of her first conception. The Lord, with his followers, 
came to see the wonder, and lo ! when the womb was opened, there 
appeared an emaciated little dwarf, with his body covered with grey 
hairs, ensconced in the womb. The dwarf saluted the Lord and said, 
" None of you should use harsh words against your parents and teachers ; 
I did so, and have suffered for sixty years, confined in a noisome place." 
The Lord named him Sthaviraka " the old one." His father took him home 
and nursed him, and in a short time he grew up to a handsome man. On 
his 70th year he got himself ordained by the Lord, and became an Arhat. 
In explanation of the question why Sthaviraka had remained so long in 
the womb, the Lord said, " in the time of Jinendra Kas'yapa, a disciple 
of one Sthavira asked his tutor to go with him to Benares to behold a 
festival ; the tutor declined, whereupon the pupil said, ' well, then, I 
must go alone, and you may remain here like an embryo in the womb.' 
That reproachful speech brought this punishment, for that pupil of 
yore, is the Sthaviraka before us." 

XIX. Story of S rimati. King Vimbisara had once given a hand- 
some palace, named Jyotishka, to one of his sons, whereupon another, 
named Ajatas'atru, felt very much aggrieved, and, through the instiga- 
tion of his friend Devadatta, killed his father, and himself became king. 
Subsequently, when out on a hunting expedition in a forest, he received 
salutary instruction from a S'ramana, and touched thereby, repairing to 
the Lord S'akya Siiiha, repented of his sins, performed the purifying fast 
of Poshadha, and became a follower of Buddha. In explanation of the 
reason why Vimbisara fell under the hands of his own son, the Lord said, 
Vimbisara in a former life was a banker of Benares. Seeing a Pratyak 
Buddha in the way he had said, " these bald-pated vagabonds should have 
their feet decorticated with a razor," and that sin led to his feet being 
amputated by his son. He further stated that this Ajatas'atru was at first 
a great enemy of Buddhism. He did everything to thwart the true religion. 
Through the instigation of his friend Devadatta, he issued a proclamation 
that he would behead every person and escheat his property who 
evinced any regard for Buddhism or Buddhists. Once a lady, seeing 



301 

a stupa covered with dust, had it swept, and the news o£ this act 
being brought to Ajatas'atru he ordered her immediate decapitation, and 
the order was carried out. The spirit of the lady was transferred to 
heaven and, in her divine form, she came and worshipped the Lord. 

XX. Story of Ajatas'atru's conversion. The subjects of Ajata- 
s'atru rose against him for his opposition to Buddhism, and, other means 
failing, he felt obliged to betake to the asylum of the Lord to save his 
kingdom. Avadana-sataka, story XVI. 

XXI. Story of Dhanapala. Given in Avadana-s'ataka, story 

XXXIII, p. a7. 

XXII. story of Sha^adanta. Brahmadatta, anxious to destroy 
the credit of the Lord, consulted some wicked people, and induced them 
to depute to the Lord a young handsome woman, who should tell him 
that the embryo in her womb was due to him, and he should provide for the 
maintenance of herself and for the child about to be born. They soon 
found a woman ready to undertake this mission, tied a wooden bowl on her 
belly, dressed her up, and sent her to the Lord. She appeared before the 
Lord when he was seated amidst his followers, and made her request. 
At this juncture Indra, perceiving the mischief in contemplation, sent two 
mice to get within her dress, and to cut the fastenings of the wooden 
bowl. When the woman stood up to give emphasis to her claims, 
down dropped the unfastened bowl, and she was put to great shame. 
She cried loud, and begged that she may be at once burnt on a pyre. 
The Lord said, " this woman was inimical to me in a former life. There 
lived on the southern scarp of the Himalayas a six-tusked king elephant 
who had two wives, Bhadra and Subhadrd; Bhadra once saw her rival 
decorated with golden lotuses by her lord, and resolved to avenge herself. 
She repaired to a forest, worshipped an old saint, and prayed that she 
may, in her next birth, have the faculty of recalling to her mind the events 
of her former lives, and, becoming a queen, may enjoy life seated on a 
throne made of ivory from the tusks of a six-tusked elephant. Her prayer 
was granted, and she cast herself headlong from the edge of a precipice, 
and killed herself. She was then born as the daughter of Khanalita, and 
married to Brahmadatta. When she had won the affection of her lord, 
she desired that a throne may be made for her of the ivory of a six-tusked 
elephant that lived on the Himalaya. The king deputed a hunter to bring 
the ivory, and the hunter, assuming the garb of a Bhikshu, appeared before 
the king 'elephant, which lived amidst 500 other elephants. The elephant, 



302 

seeing that he was a Bhikshuj received him with respect, and enquired the 
object of his mission. The hunter confessed what he wanted, and pleaded 
his poverty for the repulsive work he had undertaken. The elephant, 
pitied his poverty, and, knocking his tusks against a rock, broke them, 
and gave them to him. Thus was the vow realized. I am that king 
elephant, and this woman, the daughter of a Tirthika, was that Bhadra." 

XXIII. Story of Kavikumara. See page 102. 

XXIV. Story of Kritajna. When the Lord was once dwelling in 
the Jetavana grove at S'ravasti, Devadatta, intent on destroying the 
Lord, repaired to that place, and, standing before him, prepared to carry 
out his intention, when the fire of the Lord's benevolence enveloped him, 
and burnt him down to ashes. The Lord, beholding him in hell-fire, 
related the following story : " There lived in the town of Ratighosha two 
brothers, one grateful, the other ungrateful. The former gave away 
a deal of his self -acquired wealth in charity, and started on a commercial 
voyage. His brother followed him. Their speculations proved highly 
successful, but, on the return voyage, the vessel of the two brothers 
encountered a hurricane, and was lost. Kritajna, the grateful, seeing his 
brother drowning, dragged him out, aad, taking him on his back, swam 
to the shore with the help of a plank. He was greatly exhausted. His 
brother now revived, and, seeing that he had some precious jewels tied 
in his cloth, blinded him, and carried away the jewels. A kind merchant 
helped the now blinded man to come to the suburbs of Ratighosha, where 
he left him in the hut of a cow-keeper, and departed. The poor blind man 
had no wish to go home, so he lived on the charity of the cowherd. One 
day, the king's daughter, Janakalyani by name, saw him, and fell in love 
with him. She married him, and nursed him, and brought him round. 
One day she was late in bringing him food, whereupon he accused her 
of inconstancy. She protested and said, " I know none but you, and 
should I be truthful and chaste, the merit thereof should restore one of 
your eyes." No sooner was this said, then one of his eyes opened, radiant 
like a lotus. The man was gratified, and said, " though my ungrateful 
brother deprived me of my eyesight, I bear no ill-will against him, and 
if this be true, that truth should restore me my second eye." The second 
eye immediately opened as the first, and the happy couple returned to the 
palace, and the youth was anointed vice-king. The ungrateful brother, 
hearing of this, came to conciliate his brother, but, no sooner he stood 
before the gratefnl one, than he felt a fire burning within him. He cried 



303 

out ' I am burnt, I am burnt/ and fell into hell-fire. " That grateful 
one" said the Lord, " is myself, and the ungrateful one Devadatta." 

XXV. Story of Aj atas' atru' s conversion. (Another version.) In 
course of time Ajatas'atru was afflicted with leprosy. His body was full 
of rotting sores, covered with noisome matter, and horribly stinking; his 
friends forsook him, and even his wife and children could not approach him . 
He groaned much, and, repenting of his sins, sought the asylum of the 
Lord. The Lord pitied him, and deputed Lokes'vara Bodhisattva for his 
conversion. Lokes'vara recommenced the Uposhadha fast, and dilated on 
its merits. Ajatas'atru faithfully performed the fast, took the shelter 
of the Three Jewels, and, becoming a Buddhist, disseminated that religion 
of the Lord in his kingdom. 

XXVI. Praise of the Uposhadha fast. See ante, p. 265. 

Beginning. ^ ^M K'^'^'^T^ I 

ajiifsfi ^reiri^^r^ ttIt ^^ ^^r 5r<i: ii 

End. ^1 ^ 'B'aRT m'^'' 'i^T <T5'lit?i'rt i 

Colophon. ?;75imtiTM5?W^T^$ ^wsfll^^wi^T ^maT i 



304 



No. A, 8. 
DTVYt^VADANA-MALA'. 

Substance, yellow Nepalese paper, 17 x 5^ inches. Folia, 235. Lines 
on a page, 9. Extent in ^lokas, 9,400. Character, Newari. Appearance, 
old. Date, ? Prose. Incorrect. 

A collection o£ Avadana stories, related when the Lord sojourned 
at S'ravasti in the garden of Anathapindada. There are in it many 
stories, but most of them occur, in some form or other, in other 
Avadana works. The name of the work does not occur in the Chinese 
Tripithaka, 

Contents. I. Story of SronaJcotiharna. There lived in the village 
of Vas'ava a rich householder who had born unto him a son with a 
jewelled ring in his ear. The boy was named S'ronakotikarna. On the 
day in which this boy was born Balasena a neighbour, got two sons, 
Dasaka and Palaka. When S'ronakotikarna had grown up, he obtained 
the permission of his parents to proceed on a commercial tour in company 
with five hundred other commercial travellers. When returning home 
after a successful mission, he missed the company of his fellow travellers, 
and lost his way in the midst of an awful forest. Oppressed by thirst, 
he roamed about in quest of water, and at last came to a village inhabi- 
ted by hobgoblins. These beings had enormous bellies, mouths not 
bigger than pin-holes, and bodies covered with hair. On being asked 
the cause of their misfortune, they said, " For twelve long years we have 
searched for water and have not yet got it. We were once men of Jambu- 
dvipa, but, never having given any alms from our birth to our last day, 
we are doomed to this condition." Leaving their place, S ronakotikarna 
proceeded further, and at vesper came to a spot where he saw a man seated 
in a pavilion, and surrounded by four Apsaras maidens. This man 
received him kindly, entertained him hospitably, and allowed him to 
remain there for the night. Rising from his bed early in the morning 
S'ronakotikarna found that the pavilion had vanished, and the man was 
being torn to pieces by the four Apsarases who had assumed the form 
of brindled dogs. At nightfall the scene changed again ; the pavilion 
re-appeared, and the man was seen dallying with the celestial maidens. 



305 

On enquiring into the cause of these sudden transformations, the man 
said, " In my last existence I was a butcher, and would daily slaughter 
sheep and sell the meat, but at night I used to go to the saint Maha- 
katydyana, and listen to his discourses and act according to his instruction ; 
hence it is that I ani mangled during the daytime, and allowed to enjoy 
at night. My son is. now carrying on our family profession in the 
village of Vasava. Pray, tell him what you have seen, and try to 
restrain him from his profession ; induce him to go to Mahakatyayana 
and offer him an alms-bowl for my redemption." S'ronakotikarna 
promised to do as desired, and then retired. 

Next morning became to a place where be saw a pavilion in which a 
man was enjoying the company of celestial damsels. At nightfall the 
pavilion disappeared, and the damsels assumed the shape of a monster 
centipede, which held the man in its embrace and stung him continuously. 
When the sun rose the scene changed as before, and the man explained 
the occurrence by saying that in his preceding life he was a dissolute 
Brahman at Vasava ; he used to spend his nights with prostitutes, and 
devote the daytime to the service of Mahakatyayana, and hence his diurnal 
enjoyment, and nocturnal suffering. He added, " Pray, tell my son that 
you have seen his father in his suffering, and that his father's earnest 
request is, that he should abstain from prostitution. Should he listen 
to you, pray, tell him to dig out from under our Agnishtoma altar 
a pitcher full of gold, and always offer alms to Mahakatyayana." 

Proceeding on, S'ronakotikarna saw a lady seated on a bedstead in a 
pavilion, and four hobgoblins tied to the foot of the bedstead. When the 
hobgoblins were let loose to feed, one of them began to chew iron 
bullets, the second eat chaff, the third began to munch her own flesh, and 
the last appeared engaged on feasting on blood and pus. On enquiring of 
the cause, the lady said, " the one who is eating chaff is my daughter-in- 
law; the next who is eating iron bullets is my husband ; the third who is 
eating her own flesh is my maid-servant, and the fourth who is eating 
blood and pus is my daughter. At a festival I prepared rich viands, 
and gave them first to Katyayana and S'ramanas and then to Devas 
and Brahmanas. Coming to know this, my husband, in great wrath, 
said, ' Why don't these bald-pated wretches eat iron bullets T and this 
is his punishment. Once, a relative of mine sent me some cakes ; 
my daughter-in-law eat them, and showed me only the vessel 
which they had been sent, therefore is she made to feed on chaff, 
39 



in 



806 

Again, once I prepared some cakes, and sent them through my daughter 
to a relative ; she eat the cakes in the way, and gave the vessel to my 
relative, and when my relative sent me word, how it was that I had 
sent her only a pot ? my daughter said, ' You then must have eaten 
the cakes and sent the pot/ Hence is she doomed to live on pus and 
blood. (The offence o£ the maid-servant is not related in the MS.) 
At the time when these offences were committed I expressed a wish 
that I may be permitted to see their retribution, and hence I see it 
now. You are going to Vasava, pray, tell my only wilful daughter 
living there that you have seen her parents, and the punishment, they 
were under ; advise her in my name that she should abstain from sin. 
There are buried in my father's room four iron chests full of golden 
ornaments. Let her take them out, enjoy them, and offer proper 
presents to Katyayana on behalf of me." S'ronakotikarna lived at her 
place for twelve years, and was at last sent to Vasava by the lady in her 
own vehicle. 

Arriving at his native village, S'roiiakotikarna first repaired to the 
hermitage of Mahakatyayana, and paid him his respects. Then he 
went to execute the commissions he had received in the wilderness, 
and at last returned home to the great joy of his sorrowing family. His 
narrative of what he had seen in his travels wrought a change in the 
mind of his son, who, no longer willing to remain at home, became a 
Bhikshu, and prevailed on his father to betake to the hermitage. The 
father was ordained an Arhat. In accounting for the conversions, the 
Lord said that in former times there lived at Benares the great saint 
Kas'yapa to whose memory king Kriki had erected a chaitya. This 
chaitya was neglected and allowed to go to ruin during the reign of that 
king's son, but repaired by a merchant named Vanijyakara, and that 
merchant was now born as S'ronakotikarna. 

II. Story of Purna. There lived at the village of SurpSraka a 
merchant named Bhava who had three sons, Bhavila, Bhavatrata, and 
Bhavanandi. When Bhava, was very ill, his wife and children neglected 
him on account of his habitual roughness of speech, but a slave-girl 
tended him, obtained medical aid, and restored him to his wonted health. 
Bhava was greatly overcome by her kindness, and got by her a child named 
Purna. When Bhava died, Bhavatrata and Bhavanandi proposed that 
all the family estate on land and at home should make one share, all that 
was on water or in foreign countries another, and Purna the third. 



307 

Bhavila remonstrated against this scheme of partition, urging that 
Puma was a son of their father, and should have a share. The other 
brothers, however, would not assent to this, as Piirna was slave-born 
and, being himself property, could not claim a share of the patrimony. 
The law being on their side, the original scheme had to be accepted, and 
Bhavila took Purna for his share. The two younger brothers then 
expelled from the paternal homestead the eldest and his family, who had 
to seek shelter in the house of a relation. 

Driven away from home, Bhavila and his family were in great 
distress, and one morning, the children crying for breakfast, Pdrna took 
a masha of gold and went to the market to procure some. On the sea- 
shore he met a man trembling from a drowning he had had in the sea and 
watching a raft of logs. Knowing the logs to be of Gosirsha sandal- 
wood, he purchased the lot from the stranger for five hundred Karsha- 
panas, and immediately after sold one of the logs for a thousand. With 
the money so obtained he placed his master's family in comfort. Soon 
after, physicians having recommended an emolient of Gosirsha sandal- 
wood to the king of the place to relieve him of the burning he was 
suffering from a high fever, Purna sold another log for a like sum. 
Cured of his fever, tlie king, thinking that it was unbecoming that the 
royal stores should not possess so valuable a remedy and it should be 
obtainable in the house of a poor man, ordered the whole lot to be 
purchased. This was done at a cost of three hundred thousand gold 
pieces. Thus enriched, Piirha continued to trade, travelling from place to 
place, and amassed great wealth. At last he surrendered the whole of his 
property to his master, and, having repaired to the Lord, got himself 
ordained. Subsequently he retired to a place called S'ronapurantaka, to 
abide there. The people of that place were very rude and vain, but Purna, 
by his mildness, wisdom and assiduity, soon overcame them, made them 
resign Indra and the other Hindu gods to which they were attached, 
and betake to the fold of the Lord. About this time, Bhavila had 
gone in quest of Gos'irsha sandal -wood, and had employed five hundred 
labourers to fell the wood. A Yaksha who dwelt in that forest 
was offended at this, and created a hurricane to drown the ship in 
which Bhavila had come there. Bhavila cried in great distress for 
the succour of Piii'na, and Purna, coming to know of it through 
the medium of a god, flew to the place through the air, got the 
storm pacified, and obtained the permission of the Yaksha to carry 
away the wood. Returning with bis brother to Surparaka he caused a 



308 

pavilion to be erected of that wood, and prayed tliat the Lord may come 
and occupy it. The message reached the Lord through the air^ and the 
Lord at once came to the spot, and gratified the wish of his devotee. He 
tarried there for some time, and by his preachings and discourses converted 
many. In reply to the question why so pious a man as Piirna should 
have been born of a slave-girl, the Lord said that in the time of Kasyapa 
he hadj iu a former life, once said of a Bhikshu " what slave girl's son is 
this man V and for that fault he was doomed to be born of a slave-girl 
for five hundred births. 

III. Story of Maitreya. When proceeding to the kingdom of 
Maha the Lord related the following account. On the death of his 
father, Pranada, Mahapranada ruled his country with great severity and 
injustice. Thereupon Indra, who was a friend of his father, came to 
him, and advised him to abstain from vice. Mahapranada said, " put up 
some sign in my palace to remind me of virtue, and I shall follow it." 
Indra, thereupon, set up in the palace a golden staff, a thousand fathoms 
high and 16 fathoms in girth. In connexion with this, the king 
announced a grand festival, and his uncle As'oka became the adminis- 
trator of charities. People from all parts of the earth assembled to enjoy 
the festival and behold the wonderful staff, neglecting their agricultural 
works. The result was a famine in the country. Disgusted at this, the 
king caused the staff to be cast into the river Ganges. " He who was 
As'oka before," said the Lord, " is now Bhangali, the Bhikshu.''^ 

The Bhikshus asked, " when will this staff be rescued V The Lord 
said, " when the duration of human life will be eighty thousand years, 
a king will be born of the name of S'aiikha, and his wife, Brahmavati, 
will bear him a son of the name of Maitreya. This Maitreya will be a 
pupil of Brahmayuh and will himself have eighty hundred pupils. Four 
great kings will recover this staff and present it to S'ankha, who will 
give it to Brahmayuh. Brahmdyuh will give it to Maitreya, and Maitreya 
will present it to his pupils, who will divide it among themselves. When 
Maitreya will behold this partition, be will retire from the world and, 
attaining the perfect knowledge, become a Buddha. Him will follow 
S'ankha, his family and eighteen hundred chiefs, as also the family of 
Maitreya. Maitreya, followed by this retinue, will repair to the Guru- 
padaka hill, and there, taking up a bow of Kasyapa with his right hand 
and placing it in the left, impart instruction in the true religion. '^ 

In reply to the query, through what merit will Maitreya be- 



309 

come a Buddha, the Lord said, that in the middle coiintry there lived 
a king of the name of Vasava. He was strictly just and religious, and 
his country prospered. A king of the north country, Dhanasammata, 
envied this prosperity, and came down with a large army to plunder 
the wealth of the people. Vasava went forth to meet him, and the op- 
posing armies were encamped on the opposites sides of the river Ganges. 
At this juncture the great Buddha Ratnas'ikhi came to the place, and 
took his station on the bank of the river, and Indra and other gods 
came to worship him. Seeing this, Dhanasammata made peace with 
Vasava and retired to his country. Vasava worshipped the Lord, and 
prayed that he may become an imperial sovereign. The blessing was 
granted, but it was to be effectual when human life would extend 
to eighty thousand years. Dhanasammata also worshipped the Lord, 
and prayed that he may become a moral ruler of mankind, and this too 
was granted on a similar condition. " This Vasava", said the Lord, 
" will be S'ankha, and Dhanasammata, Maitreya." 

IV. Story of Svdgata. There lived on the S'is'umara hill a rich 
householder, named Buddha. He gave his daughter Riipini to the son of 
Anathapindada. His wife then bore him a son named Svagata. From 
the day the son was conceived, he suffered grievous misfortunes. 
When his son grew up he died ; his house and his trading vessels and his 
corn stores were destroyed by fire. Svagata tried to obtain his sustenance 
by begging, but none would give him alms. So at last, he sought the 
protection of his sister^s husband. He reached his destination on the 
very day on which Anathapindada had invited the Lord and his retinue. 
Eating of the remnant of food on the Lord's plate his mind was purified, 
and he was soon after ordained an Arhat. He then retired to his native 
place, and converted thousands. 

To satisfy the curiosity of his audience the Lord said that 
formerly there lived a rich householder named Karvataka. He was 
once in his garden with his family, relatives, and friends when a 
lean, weak, emaciated Pratyak Buddha entered the place in quest of alms. 
Karvataka ordered his men to expel the intruder, but none obeyed his 
orders. He then himself seized the saint by the neck, and shoved him 
out. The poor beggar, weak as he was, sat down, and began to pray 
for the welfare of Karvataka. This surprised the householder, and he 
prayed for pardon. It was immediately granted, and a blessing was 
also added that in a future life he would become a saint. That man 
is now born Svagata. 



310 

V. Story of Bharmaruchi. Given in the Bodhisattvavadana- 
kalpalatij p. 71. 

VI. Story of SailgJiarakshita. Ditto^ p. 64. 

VII. Story of Kanahavariia. The text is here defective and the 
story breaks off after a few lines. The opening lines refer to a famine. 

VIII. Story of Chanclraprabha Bodhisattoa. When the Lord was 
on the Gridhrakuta hill, Maudgalyayaua, son of Sari, vanished like a 
fire when the fuel had been burnt out. The Bhikshus asked the Lord 
if this was his final deliverance, or the lot which his forefathers had been 
destined to ? The Lord said, Maudgalyayana had obtained final deliver- 
ance and not the lot of his forefathers, and then recounted the former 
history of the departed hermit. At a remote period there lived in the 
city of Bhadras'ila a king named Chandraprabha He had established an 
alms-house at each of the four principal gates, of the city, and proclaimed 
that he would give whatever was asked of him. Thousands over thousands 
flocked at the gates, and got what they wanted, when at last a wicked 
Brahman, named Rudraksha, came and asked the king's head. Offers were 
made to him of untold wealth, but he would have nothing but the head. 
The king said, " take then the best member of my body," and removed 
his crown for the beggar. The sight was horrifying to the two principal 
ministers, Mahachandra and Mahidhara, who fell down in a fit and 
died immediately. The beggar, seeing the company before him, and the 
feeling of rage and despair they displayed at his request, discreetly said 
that the king should retire alone to a private garden where he could be 
decapitated, but no witness should be present. The king assented, retired 
to his garden, closed its doors, and then recited a mantra, saying, "it is 
not for a kingdom, or for an empire, or for heaven, or for enjoyment, or 
for Brahmahood that I give away my head to a Brahman ; I do so for the 
absolute Bodhi knowledge, acquiring which I may control the uncontrolla- 
ble, restrain the unrestrainable, redeem the condemned, and quench the 
unquenchable. May my remains be preserved in a chaitya \" He then 
tied himself to a champaka tree, and ordered the beggar to do as he 
listed. The Brahmaii decapitated him, took the head, and ran away. 
The Lord said, " the town which formerly was Bhadras'ila is now 
called Takshasila. He who was king Chandraprabha is now myself ; 
the two ministers are now Sariputra and Maudgalyayana ;* and 
Rudraksha, the beggar Brahman, is Devadatta." 

* iSari had seven aona of whom Upatishya alias Maudgalyayana was a favourite disciple 
of Buddha. I cannot make out the proper name of the second, Sariputra is obviously 
an epithet meaning, son of Sari. Cf, pp. 45 and 148, 



311 

IX. Story of TanchhaJca. A Brahman was one day seated in a 
very sorrowful mood, with one of his cheeks resting on his palm. An 
old woman asked him the cause. The Brahman told her his wife was 
enciente, and expected to be delivered soon, and as all his former 
sons had died immediately after birth, he expected the same calamity 
soon. The woman said, "send for me when she is about to be confined, 
and I will help you." On the day of delivery the old woman came, 
helped the patient, took the male child in her arms, filled his mouth 
with butter, covered it with a white cloth, and, handing him to a maid- 
servant, said, " take this child to the market place, and, standing on the 
crossing, say to every Brahman or S'ramana you meet, ' this child 
salutes you/ When the sun sets bring him back." This was done, and 
the child lived. He was named Mahapanchhaka. A second son was 
born, and he was saved in the same way. His name was Panchbaka. 
After the death of the Brahman, Mahapanchhaka became a hermit, and 
was soon raised to the rank of an Arhat. Panchbaka was a stupid 
youth and could learn nothing, so his brother expelled him from the 
monastery, and he sat crying on the roadside. The Lord met him in 
this condition, directed a hermit to instruct him, and soon after ordained 
him an Arhat. 

To explain the reason for this sudden transformation, the Lord 
related the following stories. There lived in a market town a rich merchant 
who had an only infant son. Being required to proceed to a distant 
country on business, he deposited the bulk of his property in the custody 
of a friend, and, leaving only a small sum of money with his wife to 
meet household expenses during his absence, went away. He died 
out at sea, and his wife had great diiEculty in bringing up her child. 
When the child had grown up to man^s age, he went to his father^s 
friend to beg -assistance. The friend said, "he who has manly deter- 
mination can help himself with that dead mouse ; he begs no one's 
help." The young man, being high-spirited, felt deeply the force of the 
rebuke, and, taking up the dead mouse which was lying there and to 
which reference had been made, went away. While standing at the 
market-place with the dead mouse in his hand, a cat belonging to a shop- 
keeper pounced on the mouse, and carried it away. The shopkeeper gave 
him a quantity of kidney beans {masJia) as the price of the mouse. 
The youth parched the beans on a fire, took a pitcher of cool, clear water, 
and placed himself in the way by which some wood -cutters returned 



312 

from tbelr daily work in a forest. The wood-cutters were greatly pleased 
with the refreshment at hand. Each took a handful of the parched beans 
and a draught of cold water, and gave the youth a piece of wood in return. 
A part of the wood so acquired was sold, and with the proceeds fresh beans 
were purchased, and parched, and the refreshment was taken to the wood- 
cutters as on the preceding day. In a short time the youth acquired 
enough wood to set up a fuel shop, and that proving lucrative, he had soon 
the means of trading on more precious articles. Prospering daily, he at 
last became a rich merchant ; but the humble means of his first venture 
was known to his neighbours, and they always called him Mushiha-liai- 
ranyaha, or " mouse gold/' and he wanted one day to pay off his debt 
regarding the mouse. He got four golden mice to be made, filled them 
with jewels, and, appearing before bis father's friend, said " here is the 
equivalent of the dead mouse you had lent, together with interest for the 
use of your capital." The friend, not to be outdone in generosity by the 
youth, said, " here is the wealth that your father had deposited with me. 
Take it, and, as a reward for your manly determination and perseverance, 
I bestow on you my only daughter." The friend was the Lord in a for- 
mer birth, and Panchhaka the youth. 

In another birth Panchhaka was, under the name of Tripita, a pupil 
of Kas'yapa. He was proud and did not recite the Gathas. In another 
existence he was a seller of hog's flesh. One day when ferrying across a 
river to a market, his boat was swamped, and he was carried away by 
the stream to a hermitage where five hundred Pratyak Buddhas resided. 
One of the saints rescued him from the river and revived him. He 
lived long with the saints and became a hermit. 

On one occasion a Jivaka invited the Lord and his retinue to a 
sumptuous repast, but did not include Panchhaka in his list of guests. 
The Lord pointed out the omission, and it was rectified. When the 
guests arrived, the Jivaka did not offer welcome to Panchhaka, nor did 
he assign him a seat at the repast. The Lord noticed this and, instead of 
giving his plate to A'nanda, as usual, offered it to Panchhaka. Panchhaka 
prepared a miraculous seat on the air, and seated thereon, stretched out his 
hand like the trunk of an elephant to receive the plate. Surprised at 
this miracle the Jivaka fell at his feet, and begged to be pardoned. The 
Lord said, this is not the first time that this Jivaka has begged pardon of 
Panchhaka. In times of yore a horse dealer was passing by a village when 
one of bis mares delivered a foal, the sight of which made his horses 



313 

neigh loudly. This he took to be an inauspicious omen, and gave away 
the foal to a potter. He then went to king Brahmadatta, and offered 
him his horses for sale. Tlie king wanted a horse with particular 
marks on it, and this could not be found. The dealer then said, " the 
foal I have given to the potter has such marks." The potter sold tlie 
foal for a hundred thousand pieces of gold. One day the king rode this 
foal and went out of the city to his garden, where he was soon after 
surrounded by a band of rebels. The king mounted the foal and wanted 
to escape, but the road was besieged by enemies, and he could not go ; 
the foal, thereupon, swam across a river and saved him. The dealer, 
coming to know of this, fell at the feet of the foal and begged his pardon. 
That foal was Panchhaka, and the dealer the Jivaka. 

. X. Story of Sydmdvati. When the Lord was at Kulmashadamya, 
a hermit of the name of Makandika offered him his daughter Anupama 
to marry, but the Lord declined. An old man then advanced and offered 
to take the girl, but the father declined. The Lord said, " this is not 
the first time I have declined to take her," and related the following 
story. Formerly a blacksmith had resolved to give his daughter to the 
most proficient in his art, when a youth came to him and became his 
apprentice, and soon excelled him in art, but declined to receive the 
daughter when offered. The Lord was the youth and the blacksmith 
Makandika. 

To explain why the offer of the old man was declined, the Lord 
related with slight variations the story of Sinhala as given on 
pp. 96, 97. The story then runs that after the refusal, Makandika 
went to Kaus'ambi, and gave his daughter to king Udayana, and 
himself became the king's chief minister. When the king had 
once gone out on an expedition against an enemy, Annpama set 
fire to the inner apartments, which destroyed her five hundred rivals 
including the chief queen Sydmavati. On TJdayana asking the Lord 
the history of these five hundred wives, the lord said, formerly 
king Brahmadatta, of Benares, had five hundred wives. One day 
these ladies had gone to a garden for recreation. Bathing in an adjoin- 
ing river they felt cold, and the chief queen, seeing a hut on the bank, 
ordered her maid to set fire to it, so that she may have a good blazing 
fire to warm herself. The maid reported that the hut belonged to a 
hermit. But the queen did not care for this, and insisted upon her order 
being carried out, and her companions supported her. Tbe hut was 
accordingly burnt. The hermit escaped from the hut, and, rising high 
40 



314 

in the air blessed her, whereupon they all begged that they ffiay be duly 
punished for their sins, but after that they may obtain the absolute 
knowledge. SyamavatI and her companions were those ladies of yore. 

XL Story of Nanda or Kaus'tclya-viryotsaha Avaddna. Nanda, 
the son of a rich merchant, became a cripple in his youth. His 
family priest, Piirana, tried his utmost to cure him, but failed. 
At last the Lord, hearing of his utter inability to rise from 
his bed, came to see him, when lo ! the youth jumped out of 
his bed to offer him welcome. The visit cured him completely, and he 
started for Ceylon on a mercantile mission. On his return after a 
successful voyage, he inviled the Lord, and offered him and his followers 
rich presents, praying at the same time that he may in a future life 
become a Buddha. The prayer was granted. 

XII. Ifadhipa Avaddna. This is a new name for the story of 
Chandana given on pp. 198-9. 

XIII. Story of the merchant's wfe or Chahra Avaddna. Given 
in the Avadana-s'ataka. Story XXIII, ante, p. 25. 

XIV. Story of Vitas''oha or Visoka Avaddna. Given in the As'oka 
Avadana, ante, p. 6. 

XV. Story of As'oka or As'oka Avaddna. Given in the As'oka 
Avadana, ante, p.- 6. 

XVI. Story of ManicMda or Manickuddvaddna. Given on p. 16^, 

XVII. Story of Sudkanaliumara, Given in the Bodhisattvavadaua- 
kalpalata, cf. p. 626. 

XVIII. Story of a poor Brekliman or Chhinna-lkaMa-hrdhmana 
Avaddna. When the Lord was proceeding on foot to S'ravasti, he met 
a poor Brahman returning from his field with a plough on bis shoulders. 
Perceiving that the traveller bore on his person the thirty-two auspicious' 
marks, but was oppressed with fatigue, the Brahman brought out from his' 
hut a cupful of pure cool water, and offered it to the Lord. The Lord 
ordered it to be east into an adjoining dried-up, old, neglected well ; and as 
soon as the Brahman did so, the well filled up to the brim with the clearest^ 
sweetest cold water. The Lord and his followers refreshed themselves with 
this water, and then, preaching the true religion to the Brahmait, retired. 
The next morning when the Brahmari went to his field, he found it covered 
with waving corn with ears loaded with grains of gold. Wonder- 
struck at the sight of the barley which he had sown the day before 
growing up so rapidly and bearing grains of gold, the poor man went 
to the king, and reported the occurrence. The king caused the crop to 



315 

be harvested and divided into two equal shares, one for himself and the 
other for the cultivator. When the division was made and the shares duly 
made over to their respective owners, the grains which fell to the lot of 
the king changed to ordinary grains of barley. The division was 
repeated again and again for seven times, and every time the king's 
share underwent the wonderful change, and thereupon he ordered the 
whole crop to be given to the cultivatorj who spent it in alms and other 
benevolent work. 

XIX. Story of five hundred cultivators or Panchhas' ataltriskaka- 
vaddna. Proceeding from the hut of the poor Brahman, the Lord met 
in the way five hundred cultivators, who prayed that they may be at 
once ordained and were made Arhats. These men in a former lite had 
been ordained Bhikshus by Kas'yapa, but they had relapsed into evil 
ways, and therefore had been punished for a long series of generations by 
being made cultivators. 

XX. Story of an agricultural Brahman or Krishaka-brahman- 
dvadana. This is the story of Obandra as given on p. 298. 

XXI. Story of Rlipavati or Rupavatyavaddna. Once when the 
Lord was at the Jetavana monastery his disciples remarked, how 
wonderful it was that beggars should be the most favoured of all persons 
to the Lord. The Lord replied, it was even so in his former existences, 
and then recited the following story in illustration. At Utpalavati in 
the northern country {Uttardpatha) , theve YwsA. at one time a lady of 
great beauty and highly virtuous disposition, whose name was Rlipavati. 
Once when in a monastery she saw a famished woman confined there and 
that person, under the pangs of hunger, was about to eat her own infant 
son. Having nothing at hand to give, she cut off her breasts and gave 
them to the famished woman. On return home she related the circum- 
stance to her husband, who declared that such incomparable virtue 
deserved to be rewarded with the restoration of the busts, and the breasts 
immediately grew up to their natural size. Thereupon S'akra, assuming 
the form of a Brahman, appeared before her and asked, " did you feel 
no hesitation in giving away your busts V 

" No," replied she. 

" Why did you do so ?" " To save the life of the child. I long not 
for kingdom, or wealth, or supremacy; I yearn for the absolute knowledge, 
which would enable me to rescue the fallen, redeem the lost, and restore 
mankind to eternal beatitude. I wish therefore to become a man.'' 

The wish was immediately gratified by the blessing of S'akra, and 



316 

the name of the metamorphosed lady became Rdpdvata, and she was 
elected king of Utpalavati. On her death after a reign of 60 years, 
she was born as the son of a merchant, and was named Chandraprabha, 
because his beauty outshone that of the moon. When he was eight 
years old, he went one day to a cremation ground and, cutting his flesh 
bit by bit, gave it to vultures to feed upon. When he lay helpless, the 
birds plucked out his eyes from their socket, and he died. He was next 
born in that town as the son of a Brahman, named Brahmaprabha on 
account of the unrivalled effulgence of his body. When he attained the 
age of sixteen years, he retired to a forest and, making a hut there, 
passed his time in the exercise of the most rigorous asceticism. In the 
neighbourhood of his hut he one day saw a famished tigress which had 
lately brought forth two cubs and was about to eat them. He immediate- 
ly gave his own body to the tigress, and saved the cubs. " The town,'' 
said the Lord, " which was Utpalavati before is now Pushkalavata. She 
who was Rupavati before, is now myself. The woman who was confined in 
the monastery, next became the tigress. Those who were the parents of 
Brahmaprabha next became S^uddhodana and Maya, and the two cubs are 
now A'nanda and Rahula." 

XXII. Story of Kus'a or Kus'a Jdtaha. See ante, p. 110. An 
English translation of the Pali version of this story has been lately 
published. 



INDEX. 



Abhaya, 

Abhayandada, ... 
Abhayankari, ... 
Abbayaprada, ... ... 

Abhidhanottra, 

Abhidharmakos'a-vyakhya, 

Abhimukhi, ... 

Abbisbeka, 

Abicbi, ... 160, 

Acbala, ... ... 

Aebalasthiva, ... 
Acharya, Chandrakirti, 
ALcharya, Nandis'vara, 
Acharya, Yasomitra, 
Acbintamati-gururaja, 
Aebintya-pranidhana-visesba- 

samudgataraja, 
Adhara lake, ... 
A'd'iikarmika-yoga, 
Adhyas'ayas, ... 
Adbyesana, 
Adbyes'vara, ... 
Adi Buddba, ... 
Adinapunya, tbe story of, ... 
Adiyoga, 
Adumaya, forest, 
Agastya, ... 50, 

Agastya Jataka, 
Agni, ... 14, 52, 

Agnisbtoma altar, 
Agnipuri, the temple of, 
Agrasamaja bill, tbe 
Abifis'a, 

Aboratravrata,... 221, 222, 
Aboratravratauns'ansa, ... 
Ahripanadhy^s'aya, 
Ajapatba, the mountain, 
Ajatas'atru, 7, 12, 21, 23, 33, 
74, 277, 279, 280, 301, 

's conversion, story 

of ... 301, 



Page 

115 

251 

292 

21 

1 

3 

83 

116 

168 

84 

91 

169 

17 

3 

288 

216 

257 

2 

116 

47 
239 
249 

59 

84 

68 
254 

50 
256 
305 
256 
149 

87 
223 
221 
116 

63 

303 
303 



Ajatasattu, 

Ajeravati, 

Ajjta, ... ." 

Ajitodaya, 

Ajnatakaundilya, 158, 159, 

Ajuneya, 

Akalamrityuharana, 

Akritrimadhyas'aya, 

Akshobhya, 

Alanda, 

Alinda,^ 142, 143, 144, 145, 

Alpas'vasa, 

Alpas'vasa-mahas'vasa Ava- 
dana, 

Amara, 

Ambara, 

Amesandbis, ... 

Amita, ... 122, 

Amitabha, 

Amitayiib, ... 241, 

Amoghapasa, ... 

Amoghavajra, ... 

Amrapali, 

Amritananda, ... 79, 99, 

Amritas'ana, ... 

Amrita-sanjivani, 

Amritayuh, 

Amritodana, 

Analinga, 

Ananda, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 
27, 30, 36, 45, 67, 78, 89, 
121, 131, 134, 154, 165, 
173, 180, 198, 205, 217, 
218, 223, 224, 226, 277, 
278, 279, 297, 
AnaAga, ... 139, 

Ananta, ... /i54, 

Anantadhyas'aya, 
Anantamaya, ... 
Ananyagami, ... 
Auas rava, ,,, 



Page 
7 

21 
279 

69 
237 
162 

84 
116 
241 
148 
275 

68 

68 
129 
289 
114 
123 
236 
288 
292 

90 
141 
274 
141 
2 
267 
122 
254 



312 
I'.O 
257 
117 
123 
91 
3 



318 



Anathapindada, 19, 20, 20, 

30, 32, S3, 36, 46,73, 198, 

223, 237, 298, 

Anavatapta, ... 49, 57, 

Aiiga, ... 

Aniruddha, 

Anivartyadhyas'aya, 

Anjana, 

Anuloma-cliarya, 

Anupahatadhyas'aya, 

Anupansa, 

Anuruddhako, ... 

Anuttarabodhis, 

Aparameya, 

Aparimitayurdharani, 

Aparyyadanadhyasaya, 

Aputraka Jataka, 

Arabs, the handsome names, 

Aradbakalama, 

Aranemi, . . . 285, 

Arehchishta, 

Arehishmati, ... ... 

Arindama, ... 

Arjuria, 

Arthadatta, ... 58, 

Artba-samvit, ... 

Aruna, ... 163, 

A'ryabhayakdri, 

Asadharanadhyasaya, 

Ashtamaka, ... 

Ash tarn ivrata, ... 274, 

Ash tami vrata-katha, 

Ashtanga, ... ... 

AshtasahasrikS, 

Ashughosha, ... 268, 

Asiatic Researches, XX, 

Asita, ... 26, 

As oka, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 

16, 30, 42, 60, 61, 66, 67, 

69, 85, 95, 96, 102, 110, 

197, 221, 229, 250, 375, 

293, 

As'oka Avadana, 6, 16, 40, 

42, 60, 61, 67, 68, 69, 70, 

71, 75, 

A'sphalana, 

Assika, 

Asuras, the 



Fa^e 



309 
284 
120 
299 
116 
146 
116 
116 

97 

7 

207 

288 

41 
116 

52 
175 
131 
287 
118 

82 
161 
160 

74 
213 
250 

80 
116 
160 
275 
274 

34 
188 
270 
113 
125 



308 



314 

256 

16 

51 



AsVadatta, 
As'vaghosha, ... 
As'varaja, 
Atimaya, ... 

Atmabhava, 

Avadana, As'oka, 6, 16, 40, 
42,60,61,67,68,69,70,71, 

Balokshi, 

Bhadraka]pa,42, 61, 

Bhavas'arma, 

Bodhisattva, 34, 36, 

Buddha-prasadini, 

Chakra, 25, 

Chandana, 88, 198, 

■ Chandraprabha, 87, 

Chandra, 

^^—^^— Chandra-surya, . . . 

Chhinnabhakta, ... 

Chitra, 

■ Chitravinsatij 

' Dadhipa, ... 

Dhanapala, 

Dhanika, 

— ^^— Dharmariichi 
Timingila, 

Dhatusteja, 

Divya, 7, 11, 227, 

Divyananda, 

Dvarika, 

Dvavins'a, 

Hetupama, 

Jimutavahana, ... 

JIvas arma, 

Kaehchhapa, 

Kalinga-s'as'aka, . . . 

Kalpadruma, 

Kalpalatd, 

Kanakavarna, 77, 

Kathina, 

Kauravyas, 

Kausidya-viryotsha- 

aha, 

Kavikumara, 

Kinnari, 

Krishna-sarpa, ... 

Krishaka-brahmana, 

Kritajna, 

Ksbatriyaraja, ... 



or 
71, 



85, 



Fage 

72 

268 

131 

123 

2 

75 

60 

151 

69 

49 

66 

314 

314 

310 

298 

69 

314 

71 

230 

314 

801 

72 

310 

87 

274 

87 

87 

294 

69 

77 

68 

75 

70 

292 

46 

310 

284 

279 

300 

62 
294 
316 
302 

80 



319 



Avadanaj Kunala, 

Kunjara, 

Kus'a, 110, 274, 

Kus'alas'ila, 

Kushthi, 

Madhuras'vara, ... 

Madhyantika, 

1 MahSvastu, 

Maitrakanyaka, . . . 

• Maitreyaka, 

■ Manichuda, 162, 

Matsaryayukta, ... 

« Nagadosha, 

Nalini, 

Padmaka, 71, 

Padmavati, 

• Padmottara, 

■ Panchas'ata-krisha- 

ka, 

■ Panchbaka, 

Pashana-sarpa, . . . 

Pippalayana, 

■ Prabhasa, 

• ' Prabbava, 

. Pritya-preta, 

. Priyapinda, 

• Punyabala, 

Purna, 87, 

Raivataka, ... 

. Ratnamala, 

Ratnavyuba, 

■ Rukmavati 

i Rupavati, ... 

S'akra-ebyavana,... 

Sampadi, 

Sampurna, ... 

■ Samudra, 

. Saiigbaraksbita, 64, 

— - Sanku-sandbidatta, 

. Santamati, 

. Sapta-kumarika, 13, 

S ardula-karna, ... 

Sartbavaba, 

. S asaka, 

S'ataka, 17, 56, 59, 

61, 73, 200, '201, 238, 298, 
294, 295, 29a, 



Page 
61 
74 

316 
75 
88 
70 
67 

115 
73 

308 

314 
88 
67 
63 
75 
65 

278 

308 

311 

60 

61 

76 

294 

294 

76 

60 

306 

76 

197 

85 

59 

309 

68 

67 

293 

295 

310 

74 

86 

221 

223 

293 

76 



301 



Avadana, Sattvausbadba, ... 

Sbadadanta, 

Sinba-kunjara, ... 

S'onv4si, 

S'resbtbikanya, ... 

Sronakotikarna, 

Avadana-stotra Tautra, 

Stbaviraka, 

Subbasbita, 

Subbuti, 

Sucbandra, 

Suddbodana, 

Sudbana-kumara, 

Sugandbi, 

Sugata, 

S'ukla, 

■ — SumagadbS, 73, 

Sumana, 

Sundara, ... 

Supriya, 

Surendradamana, 

Surupa, 

• Suvarnabba, 88, 

Svagata, 

Svastiman, 

Syamaka, 

Upagupta, 

Uposbadba, 265, 

Uttirna, 

' — Vapusmatab, 

Vasundbara-vratot- 

patti, 

Vidura, 

Vihara, 

Virakus'a, 

— Vitas'oka, 

Yas'omltra or Sun- 
dara, 

. ■ Yasovatf, 

Avalokita, 

Avalokita Vyakarana, 139, 

Avalokites'vara, 95, 96, 97, 
101, 175, 239, 254, 265, 
Siddbinika, 
S'ilakantba, 
of Potalaka, 



tbe Bodbisattva, 



Page 

60 

301 

75 

67 

88 

304 

1 

305 

73 

295 

232 

77 

306 

298 

233 

88 

237 

299 

293 

298 

88 

88 

294 

309 

68 

75 

67 

303 

86 

88 

269 

68 

88 

274 

314 

74 
269 
259 
140 

267 
292 
292 

91 



320 



Avada, 

Avanti, ... 44, 

Avisahyas'reshthi Jataka, ... 

Aviclii, 

Ayo Jataka, 

A-yu-wang-chun, 

A-yu-wang-pi-u-king;, 

A-yu-wang-wau-muli-yuii in, 

Bahubuddha, ... 

Bahuputra, 

BaladaketUj 

Balaha, 

Ba 1 as a ras vati, ... 

Balgusvana, 

Balokshi, 

Balokshi Avadana, 

Baluka, 

Bamboo grove, tbe 33, 165, 
199, 200, 

Bandbudatta, ... 

Bandhuma, 

Bandhuman, ... 250, 

Bandhumati, 34, 38, 87, 139, 
250, 276, 278, 

Beal, Eev. S., 17, 167, 204, 

236, 15, 17, 98, 102, 167, 

168, 173, 

Bebar, ... 6, 

Benares, 20, 24, 26, 27, 29, 
31, 34, 35, 36, 38, 39, 43, 
44, 46, 53, 66, 70, 71, 74, 
75, 76, 77, 87, 95, 98, 155, 
156, 157, 158, 159, 223, 
23*, 238, 293, 295, 296, 
— r^Bhadra, 68, 62, 253, 301, 

Bhadragriv'i, ... 

Bhadrakalpa, ... 294, 

Bhadrakalpa Avadana, 42, 61, 
149, 

Bbadrakasat, ... 

Bbadraiigi, 

Bhadrara ja, 

Bhadras'ringi, ... 

Bhadravargiya Jataka, 

Bliadrika, 

Bbagiratha, 

Bhaishajya raya, 



Page 






Page 


110 


Bbaisbajya-samudyata, 


. • . 


206 


74 


Bhallika, 


• ■ ■ 


156 


50 


Bhandalagrama, 


. . . 


60 


96 


Bbangali, 


• • t 


308 


56 


Bharadvaja, 


... 


58 


16 


Bharadvaja, Supindola, 




10 


15 


Bharu-kacbcbha, 




51 


16 


Bbata, 


... 


67 


154 


Bbatta Somadeva, 


... 


57 


62 


Bbava, 


... 


306 


245 


Bbavabhiitij 


• > • 


162 


97 


Bbavanandi, 


... 


306 


77 


Bbavasarma Avadana, 




69 


26 


Bbavatrata, 


... 


306 


60 


Bhavila, 


306^ 


307 


60 


Bheruka, 


■ • • 


2 


156 


Bbimasena Mababbairava, ... 


196 




Bbinsaratha, . . . 




160 


294 


Bhishmottarasangbesha, 




91 


258 


Bbujendra, 




243 


139 


Bbumis, 




116 


279 


Bhutabhavana, . . . 




68 




Bbuti, 




296 


299 


Bidhiaaanda, 




92 




Bimbisara' 7, 10, 11, 17 


32; 






33 


,45, 


71 


241 


Bindusaro, 




7 


204 


Bod bicbaryavatara. 


• ■ • 


47 




Bodbirucbi, 


. 


113 




Bodbisattva Avadana, 34 


,36, 


49 




Bodhisattvavadana-kalpalata, 






49, 57, 


310, 


3,000 




Bodhi, tbe thirty-seven infer- 




300 


ences of. 


• •• 


218 


303 


Brabmd, 18, 56, 78, 96, 


133, 




162 


166, 206, 218, 


254, 


297 


255 


Brabmadatta, 24, 25, 26 


29, 






30, 35, 36, 38, 53, 65 


,66, 




151 


70, 71, 74, 77, 119, 


120, 




143 


124, 151, 152, 153, 


156, 




43 


162, 168, 


293, 


301 


45 


Brahma Jataka, 


• • ■ 


56 


230 


Brabmana Jataka, 




51 


159 


Brabmaprabha, 


• ■• 


300 


38 


Brabmavati, 


• • . 


308 


21 


Brabmayuh, 


• • I 


128 


206 


B rah mend ra. 




245 



321 



Tage 
Buddha Bhattach^rya, ... 291 
Buddhabodhi Jataka^ ... 52 

Buddha- charitra, ... 78 

Buddha-Gaya, 42, 95, 141, 249 
Buddha, householder, ... 309 

Buddha-kapalika Yoga, ... 2 
Buddha-prasadhini, a goddess, 66 
Buddha-prasadini Avaddna, 66 
Buddha- rakshita, ... 64 

Bundadvira, ... ... 157 

Bundha, ... ... ih. 

Burnouf, M. E,, 4, 6, 11 
119, 204 
Ceylon, ... 95 

Chaitragarbha, 
Chaityapungava, 
Chaityavrata, . . . 279,280 
Chakrantara, ... 25 

Chakravadana, 199 

Chakravihara, ... 
Chakres'a, ... . . 

Chalavyuha-samudgata, . . 
Champapuri, ... 
Chamunda, ... 
Ghanakya-sarasangraha, .. 
Chauda, 

Chanda-bhattarika-raksha, 
Chandagirika,... 
Chandagutto, ... 
Chandana, 22, 23, 293; 

Chandana-lokadhatu, 
Chandana, story o£,'l98, 293 
Chandanavadana, 
Chandes'vari, ... 
Chandika, 

Chandra, 14, 32, 69, 70, 96 
k79 
Chandradanta, 
Chandradhvaja, 
Chandragupta, 7 

Chandrakanfca, 
Chandraketu, ... 
Chandraloka, ... 
Chandraprabha, 87, 207, 208 
210,211,215 
Chandraprabha Avadana, 
Chandra, story of, 
Chandra-surya Avadana, 

41 



227 

312 
222 
280 
281 
199 
3,000 
183 
105 
179 
8 
196 
182 
292 

ih. 

9 

7 

294 

286 

314 

88 
196 

20 

298 
239 
179 
8 
175 
276 
14 

310 

87 

298 

69 



Chandra-surya Jataka, 


... 


152 


Chandra- vimala-siirya-pra- 




bhasas'ri, . . . 




206 


Chandrikd Bhikshu]cil, 




239 


Chandrottama, 


... 


286 


Chapalaj 


, . , 


58 


Charapatl, 


> • • 


175 


Charu, 


• • • 


253 


Charyas, 


115, 


116 


Cheyen, 


. .. 


204 


Chhandaka, . . . 




150 


Chhandomritalata, 


... 


79 


Chhattra-vastu, 




119 


Chhinnabhakta - brahmana 




Avadana, 




314 


China, ... 90, 


251^ 


255 


Chinese language, 8, 81 


,90, 




183, 204, 227, 2:56, 


241, 






249, 


r.85 


Chinese Triplthaka, 




169 


Chintamanitirtha, 


253, 


254 


Chitra Avadana, 


... 


71 


Chitravins'ati Avadana, 


... 


230 


Chittavichitra, 


... 


116 


Chomaka, 


... 


2 


Chulimaya, 


• . * 


123 


Chiitadevf, ... 271, 


272, 


273 


Csoma de Koros, 


• « • 


6 


Dadhipa Avadana, 


• • • 


314 


BSkini Chomaka, 


• < • 


2 


Dakshinagiri,... 


• ■ • 


17 


Dakshinapatha, 


87, 


125 


Dambara, 




60 


Dandaki, 




160 


Dandapani, ... 


64J 


247 


Dantapura, 


• . . 


160 


Danyakara, 


■ *. 


90 


Darbhaka, 


1 ■• 


7 


Das'abala, 


175, 


239 


Das abhumis'vara, 


81, 


116 


Das'aratha, 


• • > 


137 


Das'aratha Jataka, 


• • • 


ib. 


Das'asahasrika, 


t • . 


183 


Das'asiras, 




25 


Dekkan, 


9i^ 


92 


Devadaha, 


• • » 


123 


Devadatta,23,27,42,43,75, 




76,127,212,300,302,303, 


310 



322 







Tage 






Page 


Devakus'a, 


110, 


14.:i 


Dhvajarucbira 


*• ■ 


154 


Devaputra, 




20 


Dhvajottama, ... 


« . . 


ih. 


Devardja, 




81 


Dhyana-paramita, 


. ■ . 


182 


Deva, Vikramas'ila 


9 ... 


222 


Dipafikara, 72, 100,118, 


119, 


236 


Devendra, 




276 


Dipavati, the city of, 


118, 


195 


Devi, Bhairavij 




15 


the king of. 


■ ■ ■ 


100 


Dhanadatta, ... 




183 


Dirghanakha, ... 


... 


45 


Dhanadatta Vajravira, 


ih. 


Dis'ampati, 


• . . 


153 


Dhanadhipa, ... 




68 


Dishtarava, ... 


.. . 


289 


Dhanapala, 




301 


Divakara, 275, 276, 277, 


278, 




Dhana-sammata 




309 




279, 


280 


Dhanavaiij 




58 


Divya Avadana, 7, 11, 


227, 


274 


Dhanika, 




73 


Divyananda, . . . 


• •• 


24 


Dhanika Avadana, 




72 


Divyananda Avadana, 


■ •• 


87 


Dhanyayana, ... 




45 


Dravida, 


. . i 


91 


Dharani-mantra sangraha,... 


80 


Dridhi, 


. . . 


245 


Dharanis, 


15, 291, 


292 


Dridbabala, ... 


208, 


211 


Dharmadaksha, 


■ •• 


223 


Dridhadanta, ... 


... 


215 


■T'Dharmadanaj ... 




26 


Dridbddhyas aya. 


» • . 


116 


Dharmadeva, ... 


■ •• 


119 


Driti 




44 


Dharmadhatu, . . . 


222, 


239 


Dronas, 




ih. 


Dharmadhatu-niyataj 


179 


Dronavastu, . . . 




161 


Dharmadvipa, . . . 


• *• 


43 


Druma, 




131 


Dharmakalpa, . . . 


. . > 


87 


Dundubhis'vara, 




241 


Dharmakara, . . . 


236, 


253 


Duraiigama, . . . 


• ■• 


84 


Dharmalabdha, 


155, 


156 


Duraroha, 




116 


Dharmamandala, 


• • • 


251 


Durga, ... 83 


, 9i; 


116 


Dharmapala, . . . 


27, 


128 


Durgandha Jambala 




12 


Dharmapati, . . . 


• •• 


45 


D urgati-paris odhana. 


, , 


84 


Dharmai-aksha, 


. . • 


285 


Durgati-paris'odhana-raja, 


ih. 


Dharmaranya, .. 


* . . 


45 


Durgati-s'odhana, 




15 


Dharmaruchi, ... 


71, 72, 87, 


310 


Durmati, 


27J 


76 


Dharmaruchi or 


Timingila 




Dusprasava, . . . 




16i 


Avadana, 


< . . 


71 


Dvarika Avaddna, 




87 


Dharmasanvit, 


... 


213 


Dvavins'a Avadana, 


85', 


294 


Dharmasila, . . . 


72, 


230 


Dvipavati 


1 . • 


ib. 


Dharmas'ri, 


• • • 


100 


Ekadhara, 


• •• 


•63 


Dharmas'rimitra, 




255 


Ekajata-Arya TarS, 




259 


Dharmatatsin, . . . 


* *. 


241 


Ekanaga, . . , 


• . • 


257 


Dharmavati, ... 


• I ■ 


223 


Ekas'rangi, 


63, 


64 


Dhatusteja, 


. ■ * 


87 


Fa-hwa-ia-kia, 




204 


Dhatusteja Avadana, 


ib. 


Fa-hwa-sun-mui-king 




ih. 


Dhautodana, ... 


. • 1 


122 


Fo-mon-ta-kong-tsio-ming- 




Dhimatij 




223 


wong-king, . . . 


. . . 


173 


Dhritarashtra, . . . 


68, 166, 


243 


Fo-moo-par-tih-tsong-pan- 




Dhvaja, 




283 


jo-po-lo-mi-king. 


. . r 


183 


Dhvajagrakeyuii 


Dh^ranf, 




Fo-show-ti-shi-pau-jo-po-lo- 






283 


292 


mi-to-siu-king. 


ff »f 


ih. 



323 



Fo-shwo-Ma-li-chi-tiea-to-lo 

li-catan-king, 
Foucaux, M. E., 
Gadgadas'vara, story of, 
Gaganamudra, 
Gana, 

Ganapatih ridayaj 
Ganda-vydha, . . . 
Gandes'vara, ... 
Gandhamadana mountain, 
Gandhapura, . . . 
Gandhavati, 221, 234, 251 
253, 257 
Gandhes'vai:a, ... 
Ganes'a, ... 89,196 

Ganes'vara, 

Ganga, ... 13 

Gangadhipatya, 
Gangapala, 
Gaiigapala Jataka, 
Gaiigapati, 
Gafigapati-hridaya, 
Ganges, the,' 6, 9, 21, 24, 25, 

119, 157, 160, 168, 181, 
224, 225, 286, 298, 308, 
Gardhavakara-yoga, 
Garuda, ... 77, 

Gauda, 
Gaudha, 

Gautama, ... 29, 35, 
Gautami, ... 46, 

Gaya, ... 44, 

Gayas'irsha, ... 132, 

Ghatikara, 

Ghoshadatta, ... 208, 

Girivalgu-sargama, 
Gitapustaka, ... 
Godavari 

Gokarna, . . . 251 

Gokarnes'vara, 
Gopa," ... 92 

Gopatirtha, 
Gopuchchha, . , . 
Gos'hira, 
Gos'irsha, ... 22, 

Gos'irsha sandal wood 
Gos'riAga, ... 119, 

=^Gotama's hermitage, 



Page 

174 
113 
206 
286 

44 
292 

90 
258 
284 
157 

258 

253 

295 

218 

78 

76 

153 

152 

89 

ib. 



309 
2 
296 
256 
157 
160 
205 
157 
257 
122 
216 

35 
284 
256 
253 
253 
247 

43 
250 
269 
297 
307 
250 
136 



Gotravali, 

Govardhana, . . . 

Govishana, 

Grahamatrika Dharani, 

Gridhrakuta, 83, 117, 
115, 139, 166, 189, 
208, 210, 211, 236, 

Grihamatrika, 

Guhya-mantra, 

Guhya-samagha, 

Gunabhadra, . . . 

Gunadhvaja, . . , 

Ganagartta, . . . 

Gunakama, 

Gunakara, 

Gunakaranda-vyiiha, 

Gupta, 

As'va,... 

■ Dhana, 

Radha, 

TJpa, 6, 10, 11 

85, 95, 96, 102, 110, 
GurnpMuka hill 
Hadivarmma, ... 
Hansa-jataka, . . . 
Hara, 

Harabhairava, . . . 
Harahara-hridaya, 
Harasiddhidevi, 
Haravallabha, . . . 
Hareta, 

Hari, . . . 

Harihayana, . . . 
Haris'ikha, 
Haritidevi, 
Harivdhana, . . . 
Hasini, 

Hastaka, story of, 
Hastakavadana, 
Hasti Jataka, ... 
Hastikas'irsha, 
Hastina, . . . 

Hastinapura, 62, 130, 
Hastinikas'irsha, 
Hells, names of 
H emagatha, 
Hetupama Avadaaa, 



102, 
204, 
241, 
245, 



Page 

2b4: 

160 
103 
93 



95, 



,42, 
197, 



34, 
77, 



77, 



131, 



310 
292 

15 
261 

17 
251 
257 

ib. 

II 
101 

67 

10 

ib. 
9 

221 

308 
265 

53 
200 
196 
292 
196 

78 
108 
199 

71 

ib. 
257 
258 

63 
201 

ib. 

56 
122 

45 
160 
122 
115 
292 

69 



324 



Hetuttama, 

HimalayaSj the 36, 44, 46, 
54, 63, 78, 119, 120, 122, 

125, 126, 128, 130, 138, 
148, 162, 163, 173, 296, 

Himas'as'i, 

Hinayana, the system of, ... 

Hindus, the 174, 175, 178, 
227, 228, 259, 

HiAgumardana, 

Hiouen Thsaug-, 

Hiranyagarbha, 

Hiranyapani, ... 

Hiri," ■ ... 

Hlati, 

Hodgson, B. H. 6, 203, 254, 
264, 

Hritmantra, 

Iksbaku, 110, 122, 

Ikshaku race, the origin of the 

Ilavrata-khan da, 

Indra, 19, 26,'22, 23, 27, 29, 
45, 50, 51, 52, 59, 60, 61, 
69, 73, 81, 86, 92, 110, 

126, 138, 142, 145, 148, 
156, 160, 166, 180, 199, 
200, 222, 227, 255, 266, 
283, 285, 288, 287, 295, 
297,307,308, 

ludradbvaja, ... 24, 154, 
Indradyumna, ... . . . 

Indragbosbas'varar^ja, 
Indraketudvaja, 
Indrakus'a, ... 110, 

Indrani, ... 

Indraprishtba,... 221, 222, 
Tndraraja, • . 

Indra's Alakdvati mansion, ... 
ladra's Nandaua Garden, 15, 
Indratapaua, ... 
Indra vati, 
Indriyas'vara, ... 
Is asha, ... 

Is'vara, . . . 

Jains, 

Jaladharagarjita-gbosha- 
. sus'vara-nakshj,tra-sanku 
sumita; .,• 



Page 
14 



301 
141 

178 

263 
60 
236 
258 
201 
126 
254 

268 

15 

142 

110 

7S 



309 

289 

23 

288 

212 

143 

196 

234 

45 

93 

84 

154 

251 

91 

ib. 

139 

13 



206 



Jalagama, ... 
Jalagarbba, ... 246, 

Jalambara, . . . ib. 

Jalambugarbha, ib. 

Jalavahana, . . . ib. 

Jambala, 

Jambala, Durgandha, 
Jambudvipa, 91, 155, 208, 
216, 217, 
Janakachehha, 
Janakalyani, ... 
Janmanudes'a, ■ • . ... 
Janmapas'ubhavana, . . . 
Jas'odevi, 
Jataka, Agastya, 
Aputraka, . . . 

Avisahya-s'reshthi, 

Ayo, ... 

Bhadravargiya, 

Brahma, 
Brahmana, 

Buddhabodhi, ... 

' ■ Oandra-surya, 

Das'aratha, ... 

' Gangapala, 

Hansa, ... 

Hasti, ... ... 

.Kaka, ... 

— Kapi, ... ... 

Ksh^nti, 

Kulmasapin^i, 

Kumbha, 

— Kus'a, 110, 

Mahabodhi, ... 

Mahakapi, . . . 

Mahisha, 

Maitribala, ... 

Matsya, 

' Padmavati, 

Ruru, ... 

S'akra, 

Sarabha, 

■ S'as'a, .., 

S'atapatra, 

Sivi, ... 

S'reshthi, 50, 



— Subhasa, 

— Suparaga, 



Page 
247 
247 

ib. 

ib. 

ib. 

82 

12 

289 

129 

302 

116 

2 

44 

50 

52 

50 

56 

159 

56 

51 

52 

152 

137 

152 

E3 

56 

149 

55 

55 

50 

52 

142 

53 

54 

56 

50 

51 

152 

55 

51 

54 

50 

56 

50 

52 

49 

51 



325 



Jatakaj Sutasoma, 

— Syama, 

• Unmadayanti, 

■ Vanara, 

— ^— Vartakapota, 

Visa, . . . 

Vis'vambhara, 

— — Vrishabha, 

Vyaghri, 

-' Yajna, . . . 

Jatindhara, ... 2i6 

Jatismara, 

Jauvara, 

Jayasena, 

Jayashi nay atana, 

Jayasri, 6, 42, 95, 249, 250 

Jaya-tirtha, 



Tage 
56 
137 
51 
146 
52 
il. 
50 
146 
49 
51 
247 
34 
116 
78 
91 
275 
254 
196 
Jayi, ... ... 44 

Jayottama ... ... 91 

Jeta, ... 45, 122 

grove, 19, 20, 21, 22, 

162, 173, 174 
Jetavana, 12, 13, 15, 23, 27, 
29,34, 35,37,45, 46, 76, 
95, 115, 198, 250, 295, 

299, 302, 315 
Jeti, ^ ... ... 122 

Jhankes'vari, ... ... 196 

Jih-leng-kia-king, ... 113 

JimiJtaketu, ... ... 77 

Jimutavahana, ... 77, 78 

Avadana, ... 77 

Jina, 15, 48, 68, 95, 96, 118, 

151, 200, 222, 223, 234 
Jinarakshita, ... ••■ 229 

Jinasrf, ... 42,95, 275 

Jinendraghoslia, . . . 245 

Jinendra Kas'yapa, ... 300 

Jines'vara, ... •■• 249 

Jivanjiva, ... ■•• 70 

Jivas'arma, ... ••• 68 

Jivas'arma Avadana, ... 68 

Jndnabala, ... •■. 216 

Jnanakara, ... ... 100 

Jnanaprabha, ... ... 219 

Jn^nas'vara, ... ... ^H 

Jnana-tirtba, ,,. ... 264 



Jnanavati, 

Jvalanananta, ... 

Jvalantarabha, 

Jyotihpala, 122, 139, 163 

story of, 

Jyotiraja, 

Jyotirasa, 

Jyotirlinga, . . . 

Jyotishka, 

Kachchhapa Avadana, 

Kainakeya, ... 

Kaka Jataka, ... 

Kakavarna, ... 

Kakavarni, 

Kakes'vara, ... 

Kakubha, 

Kalabba, ... 159 

Kalakandaka, ... 

Kalandaka tank, the 17 

Kalasena, ... 

Kalas'oko, ... . . 

Kalasiitra, 

K^les'vara, 

Kalihrada, ... 250, 251 

Kalika, 

Kaliiiaga, ... 

Kalinga, ... 154 

Kalinga-s'as'aka Avadana, 

Kali age, ... 250, 256 

Kalpa, ... 34 

Kalpa, Bhadraka, 35, 36 

Kalpadruma Avadana, 

Kalpavriksha, ... 

Kaluga, 

Kalyana, 

Kalyanadhyas'aya, 

Kalyana-panchavins'atika, .. 

Kama, 

Kamabala, ... .. 

Kamandalu, 

Kamarthi, 

Kamarupa, a mountain, 

Kampilya, 65, 102, 146, 147 

I '-, the king of, . . 

Kanaka, 36, 77, 121 

Kanakagiri, ... 

Kanakavarma,... .. 

Kanakavarna Avadana, 



826 



Tage 

Kanalsavatl, ... ... ih. 

KanchagaM, ... ... 36 

Kanchanamala, 10, 61, 73 238 

Kanehanapura, ••• 77 

Kandala, ... ... 119 

Kanyakubja, ... 110,143, 144 

, the king of, ... 110 

Kapi Jataka, ... ... 55 

Kapila, ...62,63,122 226 

Kapila A's'rama, ... 13 

Kapila's Sankhya Sutra, ... 178 
Kapilavastu, 35, 37, 92, 119, 
122, 123, 127, 131, 135, 

150, 154, 265 

Kapis'a Avadana, ... 100 

Kapota, ... ... 258 

Kapotala, ... ... 251 

Kapotara, ... ... 254 

Kapphina, ... ... 38 

Karakanda, ... 122, 148 

Karandavyuha, . . . lOl 

Karburakulis a, ... 253 

Karkata,^_ ... 12, 257 

Karma-rajas'ri, ... 84 

Kama, ... 278, 279 

Karpata, ... ... 58 

Karshaka, the story of, ... 61 

Karuna-pundarika, ... 285 

Karvartika, ... ... 309 

Kashmir, ... 67,76, 228 

Kashthanagara, ... 14 

Kas'ika, ... ... 43 

Kds'irdja, ... ... 68 

Kas'isundara, ... ... 35 

-Kas'isundari, 36, 277, 278, 279 
Kas'yapa, 25, 30, 31, 34, 35, 
86, 38, 39, 44, 45, 46, 62, 
63, 64, 65, 69, 73, 74, 87, 
116, 118, 121, 122, 131, 
160, 200, 202, 238, 265, 
276, 277, 284, 286, 293, 

294, 296, 299, 306, 308, 812 

—' — ■ Fulvavilva, ... 44 

■ Sarit, ... ih. 

Katha-saritsdgara, ... 57 

Kathina, ... ... 284 

- Avadana, . . . ib. 

Katyayana, ... 205,305, 306 



Page 

Kauliyas, ... ... 123 

Kauliya tribe, orgin of the 122 

Kaumari, ... ... 196 

Kauiidilya, ... 242, 244 

Kaurava, the city of, ... 297 

Kauravyas, story of the, . . . ib. 

Kaus'ambi, ... 124, 269 

Kausigha, story of, ... 198 
Kaus'igha-viryya-sahanava- 

d^na, ... ... ib 

Kaus'ika, ... ... 126 

Kaus'ikya-viryotsaha-avadana, 314 

Kavachadvaya Chomaka, ... 2 

Kavikumara, ... 102, 103 

Kavikum^ra-katha, ... 102 

story of, ... 302 

Kayasaiivara, ... ... 219 

Kelika, ... ... 45 

Kes'avati, . . . 252, 253, 264 

Keshasthali, ... ... 156 

Kesini, ... ... 255 

Kes'vati, ... ... 253 

Khabhairava, ... ... 257 

Khaganana, ... ... 261 

Khanalita, ... ... 801 

Kharvota, ... ... 58 

Khasarpa, ... ... 268 

Khemaiikara, ... • ... 72 

Kin-kwong-ming-king, . . . 241 

Kin-kwong-ming-wan-ku, . . . _ ib. 

Kinnarapura, ... ... 130 

Kinnari Avadana, ... 62 

Kites'vara, ... ... 253 

Kola, ... ... 123 

KoHsaba, ... ... ib. 

Kolita, ... ... 148 

Koravya, ... ... 88 

Kos'ala, 50, 76, 121, 122, 159 

Kota, ... ... 75 

Krakuchehanda, 37, 72, 121, 

261, 252, 263, 266 
Kriki, Raja, ... 34, 62, 39, 

73, 223, 238, 265, 806 

the daughter of, ... 121 

Krishaka-brahmana-avadana, 315 

Krishna, ... • ... 264 

Krishnasarpa, story of, ... 294 

Kntajna, story of, ... 302 



327 



Kriyasangralia- panjika, 

Kshanti, . . . 214, 

Kshanti Jataka, 

Kshanti-paramita, 

Kshati'iyaraja Avadana, 

Kshatriyasj the, 8, 25, 106, 
J 154, 224, 225, 

-■ifCsVieina, 

Kshemadatta, ... 

Kshemadharman, 

ICshemankara, . . . 24, 

Kshemaraja, ... 

Kshemavati, ... 

Kshemendra, ... 

Ksliirika, 
•—Kubalaya, 

Kubjikaguhyes'vari, 

Kuhana, 

Kukkura, 

Kukkuta garden, 



9, 10, 42, 

95, 285, 



Kukkutarama, . 

Kulaehakres'vari, 

Kulaohala, 

Kuladaka, 

Kuladatta, 

Kuladu, 

Kulagara, 

KuUka, _ ... 

Kulmasapindi, 

Kulmasapindi Jataka, 

Kumarajiva, . . . 

Kumbha, 

. Jataka, 

Kumbha tirtha, 
Kumbhes'vara, 
Kunala, ... 10,61, 

Kunala Avadana, 
Kunjara Avadana, 
Kanjarakarna,... 
Kus'a, 110,143.144,145, 
2r4, 275, 

. Jataka, HO, 142, 

Kus'alagram, ... 

Kus'aldsila, ... 

_^— — — Avadana, 

Kushthi Avadana, 

Kus'i, .,, 30,68,73, 



Page 






Paffe 


105 


Kus'i, the Gymnasium of, ... 


30 


215 


Kusmanda Preta, 


. 


166 


55 


Kiitagdra, 


12^ 


73 


182 


Kutsita, 




13 


177 


Kuvera, ... 17, 2C 


,62^ 


201 




Laksha-chaitya, the 


cere- 




226 


mony of. 


275, 


276 


36 


Lakshmana, . . . 




102 


216 


Lakshmi, 


183^ 


241 


7 


Lalitapuri, 




183 


87 


Lalita-Vistara, 113, 141, 


166^ 




250 




158, 


178 


251 


Lafika, 


91, 


113 


57 


the king of. 




ib. 


156 


LankSvatara, 


113', 


292 


35 


Ling - kia-o - pa - ta - lo ■ 


pao- 




196 


king, 


• t « 


113 


70 


Lohitavastuka, 




157 


160 


Lokadhipas, ... 




107 




Lokes'vara, 112, 200, 


239^ 




293 


258, 


266, 


303 




Lokes'vara-s'ataka, 




112 


196 


Lolamantra, . . . 


102^ 


103 


49 


Lotus de la Bonne Loi, 




204 


2 


Lubdhaka, 




137 


105 


Luchiia, 




44 


63 


Lumbini 


133^ 


124 


91 


Maehch h amukha. 




254 


257 


Madanajaha, . . . 




223 


60 


Madhuradhyas'aya, 




116 


i5. 


Madhuras'vara, 




15 


81 


Avadanaj 




70 


52 


Madhyamaka-vritti, 




169 


id. 


Madhyantika, . . . 




67 


253 


Avadana 


J ... 


ib. 


id. 


Magadha, 8, 24, 25, 61 


, 91, 




293 


95, 141, 


222, 


293 


61 


Magasthata, . . . 




258 


74 


Maha, 




308 


10 


Mahabala, ... 107, 


208^ 


209 




Mahabharata, ... 




282 


316 


Mahabhijnajnanabhibhu^ 




205 


id. 


Mahabodhi, 


1 • I- 


63 


44 


Jataka, 




ib. 


75 


Mahabrahma, . . . 


154^ 


157 


ib. 


Mahabuddha, , . . 


• . . 


239 


88 


Mahachandra, ... 


4* • 


310 


86 


Mahadeva, 


91, 


247 



328 





Tage 






Page 


Maliadevi, 


244 


Mahavicbi, 


, , , 


115 


Mahadlij, 


44 


Mahavira, 




256 


Mabadhvaja, ... 


154 


Mabawanso, . . . 




7 


Mahagovindaj story of, 153, 


154 


Mahayana Sutras, the 


• > • 


98 


Mahakala, ,.. 107,108, 


172 


Mahendraka, ... 


143, 


145 


Mahakala Tantra, 


ih. 


Mahendravati,... 




60 


Mahakapi Jafcaka, 


64 


Mahes'a, 




120 


Mab Skaranachitti, 


209 


Mahes'avati, . . . 


... 


154 


Mahakas'y'apa, 148, 205, 237, 




Mahes'vara, . . . 


... 


139 


275, 


276 


Mahes'vari, 




196 


Mabakatyayana, 805, 


806 


Mahidhara, 


2l6i 


310 


Mahalakshrai, ... 196, 


269 


Mahipala, 




7 


Mahallaka, 


97 


Mahisha Jataka, 


1 • • 


56 


Mahdmandala, 


7 


Maitrakanyaka, 




28 


Mahamati, 


113 


Maitrakanyaka Avadana, , . . 


73 


Mabamaudgalyayana, 


205 


Maitrayani, . . . 




91 


Mabamaya, 


123 


Maitreya, 92, 195, 204, 


206, 




Maba-mayavijaya-vabini- 




211, 212, 231, 234, 


250, 




naray an a-prichchb a. 


292 


251, 254, 285, 292, 


308, 


309 


Maba-mayuri,' 164, 173, 


ib. 




1 . • 


ib. 




Maba - mayuri - vidya - rajni- 




Maitribala, 


• • • 


60 


dharini. 


173 


Jataka, 


... 


60 


Mabanamd, 126, 127, 131, 


147 


Mdladvajavyuha, 


• •• 


90 


Mahanamasadhana, 


29^ 


Malayagiri, 


• • • 


240 


Mabanandi, 


7 


Malaya, the mount. 


77, 


ILS 


Mabanirdesa, ... 


204 


Malini, 


... 


121 


Mahapadma, ... 


257 


Mall a, a country. 


< • ■ 


86 


Mahapanchbaka, 


311 


Mallika, 


• • ■ 


60 


Mahaprabhu, ... 


91 


MSnavaka, 


180, 


131 


Mabaprajapati, 


151 


Man-chu-pa'o-ts'ang-to-lo- 




Mabaprajavati, 


123 


ni-king. 


• . • 


98 


Mahapranada,... 247,211, 


308 


Mandakini, 


t . • 


276 


Maba-pratisara, 


164 


MandarHill, ... 


t . • 


10 


Maba-pratisara-kalpa, 


168 


Mandbata, 




122 


Mabapnnya, ... 


202 


MaAgala, 


119, 


239 


Maba-raksba-mantranus'aii- 




Maiigalavastu,... 


... 


119 


Di, ... 164,165, 


192 


MaAgalyayana, 




285 


Maharatba, 


247 


Manicbuda, 




314 


Maba-sahasra-pramardini, . . . 




Avadana, 


162^ 


ib. 


164, 166, 


292 


Manichuda, ... 162, 


163, 


253 


MahSsammata, 


122 


Manilifiges'vara, 




253 


Mabasattvavan, 247, 


248 


Manlrohini, ... 




ib. 


Maba-s itavati. 


164 


Maiiis'ila, 




254 


Mahas'vasa, 


68 


Manjudeva, ... 253, 


255,' 


256 


Mahausbadba,... 


129 


Manjughosha, . . . 


... 


268 


Mabavajra-meru mountain. 


168 


Manjus'ri, 90, 91, 92, 


vi'i, 




Mabavastu Avadana, 


114 


204, 232, 234, 239, 


249, 


251 


Mahavas'vavadana-kathS, . . . 


110 


Manjus'ri -pratijna, 


1*. 


292 



329 



Manasarovara, . . . 

Manjus'ri-sadhana, 

Manjuvajra, ... 

Manohara, ... 130, 

Manorama-tirtha, 

Manthara, 

Mara,50, 110, 137, 138,139, 

142, 145, 146, 155, 156, 

166, 181, 182, 189, 190, 

210, 

Maradaraka, ... 

Marakaranda, ... ... 

Maraprabha, ... 

Marasatan, 

Marichi, ... 174, 

Marichinama dharini, 

Markata, a lake, 18, 73, 

Martyes'vari, ... 

Mata, ... 

Mathur^, ... 10,15, 

Mati, 

Matis'vara, ... ... 

Matrikabheda,... 

Matsaryayukta Avadana, ... 

Matsya Jataka, 

Matuli, 

Maudgalyayana, 12, 24, 30, 

31,49,58,71,115,116,118, 

119, 148, 149, 200, 301, 

Maugba, 

Maya, 92, 123, 124, 131, 145, 

Mayadevi, Birtb aud mar- 
riage of 

Mayavada, 

Megba, ... 91, 

Megbas'n, 

Merchant's wife, story of the 

Meru, 

Milan apurana,... •■• 

Milinda, 

Mitatoshala, ... 

Mithila, 69, 120, 129, 148, 

Mitra's Antiquities of Orissa, 

Yol. I, Dr. Raiendralala, 

137, 

Buddha Gaya, Dr. R., 

. Lalita-Yistara, Dr. 

R,, ... 92, 214, 

42 



Page 








Page- 


53 


Moksha, 






218 


ib. 


Mokshada, 






251 


2 


Mokshapada, . . . 




... 


292 


131 


Mo-no-pan-jo-po 


lo-mi 


-king, 


183' 


253 


Mrigadava, 


36, 43, 44. 


16 L 


58 


Mrigasthali, . . . 
Mrigi, 




... 


251 
134 




Mrinala, 




... 


58- 




Muchalinda, „. 






151 


239 


Muhammadans, 




• . . 


259- 


263 


Muktamala, ... 




a . . 


36' 


121 


Muktasara 






92 


288 


Muktiehandra,... 






82 


178 


Mulaka, 






9t 


292 


Miilika, 




. * . 


76 


174 


Munda, 






r 


120 


Munindrahrit mantra, 




15 


196 


Muyin, 




. . . 


T 


254 


Nadi, 




44, 


J57 


67 


Nadikrikantha, 






254- 


72 


Nagadasako, . . . 




• • • 


7 


211 


Nagadosha Avadana, 




Q7 


2 


Nagakumira, the 


story 


of,... 


61 


88 


Nagapura, 






267 


51 


Nagapuri, 




• • • 


256^ 


126 


Nagira, 
Nahal, 






284- 
157 




Nairanjana, ... 


132, 


i4i; 


156 


310 


Nala,' 




• • • 


91 


237 


Naladhvaja, ... 




• • • 


ik. 


316 


Nalaka, 
Nalapura, 




... 


44 
91 


123 


Nalikela, 




. . < 


160- 


48 


Nalini, 


46. 63, 


64 


119 


Avadana, 






63 


91 


Nanda, 7, 70, 115, 


139, 


198^ 


254 


314 






• • • 


314< 




tlXTJ 


76 


Nandas, the nine. 






7 


91 


Nandimukha, ... 






270 


60 


Nandivardhana, 




... 


7 


91 


Nanuhura, 




. . . 


91 


154 


Narada, 

Naradagrama,... 

Naradatta, 




.. . 


126. 

45 
46- 


196 


Naradurga, 




... 


196. 


158 
218 


NSrayana, 

Narendra, 

Narendradeva, 




258> 


295 
257 
258 



330 





Paffe 1 




Page 


Narendragbosha, 


... 


211 


Pancbala, 


120 


TSIas'ikd, 


. . . 


196 


tbe king of. 


13 


Nata, 


. • . 


67 


Pancbaraksba, ... 


164 


Nathakantha, ... 


... 


23 


Pancba-s'ata-krisbakavadana, 


315 


Nathamala, 


... 


78 


Pancbas'ikba, ... 24, 


163 


Ndthurama Bratmacliar 


L, ... 


ib. 


Pancbas'irsba, ... 


251 


Navaksharalidaka, 




2 


Pancbavins'atika-prajnapara- 




Nava-liiiga, ... 


• • ■ 


254 


mitabridaya, 


292 


Nepal, 8, 188, 249, 251, 


253, 




Pancbavins'ati-sabasri, 


183 


254, 256, 257, 


268, 


264 


Pancbavifis'ati-sahasrikS, ... 


193 


language. 




274 


Panchbaka, story of 311, 


312 


Netramanjari,... 




223 


Panikhata, 


167 


Ngan-fa-kin, ... 


... 


16 


Panini, 


4 


Ngan-sih, 


... 


id. 


Papanasini, 


264 


Nidhauaka, 


... 


254 


Paramartbanama-sangiti, . . . 


175 


Nidbisandarsana,, 


* . . 


290 


Paramitayus, ... 


292 


Nimba forest, . . . 


. • 1 


272 


Paris, 


4 


Nipura, 


... 


122 


Parnada, 


72 


Nirgrantha Sebool, tbe. 


• * I 


11 


Parnas'avari, ... 176, 


292 


Nii-mala, 


, . , 


26 


Parnas'avarinama-dharini, . . . 


176 


Nirmala tii'tba, 


... 


253 


Parvata, 


251 


Nirodbakramas, 


... 


114 


P ascbi mesVara, 


196 


Nirukti sanvit. 


... 


213 


Pasbana, 


60 


Niyata-dbvajaketu, 




179 


Pasbana-sarpa Avadana, ... 


ib. 


Nrityes'vara Mababbairava. . 


196 


Pasbat-mandala, 


91 


Nyagrodba, 


123, 


124 


Pas'upati, 


258 


Ny agrodb a-kal pa. 




61 


Patala, 


60 


Nyagrodba monastery. 




298 


Pataliputra, 6, 8, 9, 61, 66, 




Nyagrodbarama, 


150, 


152 


96, 197, 


293 


Padas'ata, 


. . ■ 


24 


PataAga, 


63 


Padma, 46, 65, 264, 


276, 




Patanjali's Yoga sutra. 


178 




285, 


286 


Pattana, 


154 


PadmadbStu, ... 




286 


Patuvarmma, ... 


265 


Padmagiri, 


250' 


261 


Paundravardbana, 


73 


Padmaka, ... 16, 26, 62, 


257 


Pavishyaraksbita, 


10 




71, 


75 


Pei-bwa-king,... 


285 


Padmanetra, ... 


. • * 


2 


Phanigartta, ... 


253 


Padmaprabba, ... 


204, 


288 


Phanigarttes'vara, 


ib. 


Padmapuri, 


276, 


281 


Pbanilinges'vara, 


ib. 


Padmas'ri, 




206 


Phanisita, ... ... 


ib. 


Padma vati, ...61,65,66, 


162 


Pih-u-king, 


17 






65 


Pindapitrdvadana, 


195 


————— Jataka, 


i . . 


152 


Pingalavatsa, ... 


8 


Padmodbhava, Buddha, 


t . . 


20 


Pippalayana, ... 61, 


62 


Padmottara, 25, 162 


,286, 


298 


Avadana, 


61 






88 


Pitavarna-prajnaparamita,. . . 


114 




. . . 


297 


Pithadevata, ... 


2 




Paisa, of Kulagara, 


... 


91 


Pitbamala, 


ib. 



331 



Pithaparva, 

Poshadha, ... 265, 

Poshadhavrata, 96, 

Potala, 

Prabhakari, 

Prabhasa, 

' Avadana, 

Prabbasavana, the grove of, 
Prabbava, story of, 
Prabhavati, ... 75, 

Prabodha, ... 
Prachanda, ... 277, 278, 
Praebandadeva, 
Prades ika mandab'ua, 
Pradipaketu, ... 
Pradipapradyota, 
Prajna-paramita, 177, 178, 
180, 181, 182, 188, 189, 
190, 193, 

■ hridaya, ... 

Prajna-parimita-tika, 
Prajnavanta, 146, 147, 

Prakriti, ... 224, 

Pranada, ... 

Prasannas'ila, . . 
Prasenajit, 7, 12, 13, 20, 21, 
36, 37, 75, 
Prasnottaravadana, 
Pratapamalla, ... 
Pratapana, ... 
Pratapavan, 

Pratyeka Buddha, alias Pra- 
tyaka Buddha 114, 294, 
298, 
Pratisanvlts, ... 
Pratisara, 
Pratyakbodbis, 
Pratyangira-kalpa, 
Pravrajya, 36, 148, 152, 154, 
Prayoga-mukha, 
Pretavadana, ... 
Prithubbairava, 
Pritburashtra, ... 
Prithvi, the goddess, 121, 
Prityapreta, story of, 
Priyapinda, 

. Avadana, 

Pucbchbagra, ... 



Page 

2 

300 

100 

60 

82 

75 

ib. 

166 

294 

254 

24 

729 

256 

87 

230 

289 



195 
292 
194 
148 
226 
308 
195 

224 
200 
239 
115 
236 



300 
218 
292 
297 
227 
278 
197 
200 
256 
91 
274 
294 
76 
ib. 
256 



Pudgala, 

Pujapaddhati, ... 

Pukodbi, 

Pundravardhana, 11, 237, 

Pungaladhyas'aya, 

Punyabala, ... 60, 

Avadana, 

Punyamitra, ... 

Punyanumoda,... 

Punyasena, 

Punyavanta, ... 146, 147, 

Punyavat, 

Purana, 21, 198, 258, 

Piirna, 44, 46, 206, 307, 

■ Avadana, 

Purnabbadra, story of, 
Purnamahes'a, ... 
Purnavati Brabmani, 
Pushkalavati, ... 
Pushkara, 

Pushkarasari, ... 225, 

Pusbpaehandra, 
Pushpaketu, ... 
Pushpaman d itS, 
Pushyila, 
Putraka, 
Radhagupta, ... 
Radhika, 
Bahaka, 

Rahula, 70, 128, 131, 151, 
152, 164, 205, 
Rahula's conversion, 
Raivataka, 

Avadana, 

Raivati, 

Rajadbisb^hana, 
Rajagriba, 7, 8, 17, 23, 31, 
S3, 45, 46, 71, 74, 75, 85, 
87,89,115,119,120,124, 
132, 139, 142, 148, 150, 
161, 164, 166, 178, 189, 
199, 204, 210, 236, 241, 
242, 275, 285, 294, 299, 
Rajamanjari, ... 
Raja-tirtha, 
Raksha-bbagavati, 
Raksbasidvipa, 14, 

Rakshita, ... 



Page 
58 
196 
252 
238 
117 
289 
60 
74 
47 
14 
148 
60 
314 
308 
87 
293 
277 
196 
60 
62 
226 
217 
276 
116 
60 
198 
67 
254 
123 

316 
154 

76 

ib. 
149 

15 



300 
253 
ib. 
177 
155 
120 



332 







Vage 






Tagt 


Rattabbatsba, 




78 


Rodini, 


. t • 


63 


Raktanga, 




253 


Robini, 


76, 


253 


Rama, 




132 


Roruka, 




154 


Ramagrama, . . . 




9 


Royal Asiatic Society of 




Ramanaka, 




28 


Great Britain, 




268 


Ramayana, 




137 


Rucbira, 




116 


Ramodaka-tirthaj 




S54 


Eiicbiraketu, 241, 242, 


243^ 




Rashtrapala, 38, 39, 40, 


148 


246, 


246, 


248 


Ras'miprabha, . . . 




90 


Rudra, 




295 


Ras'mipramukta, 




179 


Rudraka, 


46; 


132 


Rasbtrapala, ... 35 


5, 39^ 


40 


Rudraksha, 




310 


Rati, • ■ 


• . • 


155 


Avadana, 


... 


ib. 


Ratigbosba, 


• • ■ 


302 


Rukmavati, 


... 


59 


Ratna, 




276 


Riipa, 


> • > 


213 


Ratnaehuda, . . . 




162 


Rupavanta, 


146, 


148 




ti,... 


91 


Rdpavata, 




316 




Ratnagarbba, ... 285, 


287, 


288 


Rupavati, 116, 230, 


315; 


316 


Ratnakara, 


275, 


295 


Rupavatyavadana, 


• ■ ■ 


315 


-' island of, 


198, 


295 


Rtipini, 




309 


Ratna- karandaka-vjtiba 


■ 




Rupyaketu, 


t • * 


246 


siitra, 




98 


Rura Jataka, ... 


... 


65 


Ratnaketu, 


241^ 


262 


Sabbika, 




44 


Ratnamala Avaddna, 




197 


S'acbipati, 




59 


Ratnamati, 


19^ 


297 


Sadaparibhuta, story of. 


t . . 


206 


Ratnamudra, . . . 


179, 


288 


Saddbarmapatba, 


. . • 


292 


Ratnapadma-cbandra-vis'ud- 




Saddbarma-pundarika, 


20% 




dbabhyudgataraja. 




217 


205, 


206, 


207 


Ratnapariksha, 




291 


Sadbumati, 


• • 1 


84 


Ratnas'ikba, ... 


245, 


246 


Sady oga-saii vara. 


■ ■ ■ 


2 


Ratnas'ikhi, . . . 


. • . 


309 


Sagaramegha, . . . 


1 • • 


91 


Ratnavairoehana, 




286 


Sagaramukba, . . . 




ih. 


Ratnavati, 


217, 


254 


Sahali, 




7 


Ratnav/uba, . . . 




86 


Sabasravarti, . . . 




292 


Avaddna, 




85 


Sabasrayodhi, ... 


■ « . 


72 


Ratnocbebaya,... 




245 


S'aila, 


■ < ■ 


68 


Ratnottama, . . . 


19; 


203 


Vihara, . . . 


• ■ • 


76 


Ratnottamavadana, 




202 


S'aiva religion. 




268 


Rava, 




122 


Saketa, 


• • • 


122 


Ravana, 




113 


S'akra, ... 14, 


189, 


315 


Rebata, 




46 


S'akra-ehyavana Avaddna,... 


68 


Rgyaeb^rolpa, 




113 


S'akra Jataka,... 


» * • 


51 


Renu, 


153^ 


154 


Sakraraja, 


• • • 


183 


Revanta Mababbairava, 




196 


S'akti, 


... 


46 


Risbabba, 




120 


S'aktideva, 


... 


256 


Rishipatana, ... • 




39 


S'akya,.?, 12. 13, 70, 


113, 




Risbipa^tana, ... 35, 36 


,48; 


123 


175, 204, 221, 239, 


265, 




Roeba, 




289 


269, 286, 


293, 


298 


Rocban-a, 


... 


119 


S'akya.Sinba, 14, 38, 57 


;72, 





333 



95, 110, 115, 117, 119, 

122, 131, 233, 234, 241, 

242, 250, 288, 290, 292, 

296, 

S'alendra, 

S'alipushpavadana, 

Sam^dhiraja, ... 

Samddhiraja-supratishthita, 



Samantabhadra 
Samauta-khanda, 
Samantanetra, . . . 
Samantarasmi, 
Sambara, 
Sambbu Purana, 
Sambodhi, 
Sampadi, 

-.- Avadana, 



90, 92, 



Samptirna, 



story of, 



67, 



Samsarottarana, 
Samuehebaya, ... 
Samudra, 
Samudragarbba, 
Samudrakatiha, . . . 

Samudrapattana, 
Samudraprastbana, 
Samudrareau, ... 287, 

Samudra, story of, 
Samudravadana, ... 

Samud ravelati, 
Samvaravajra,... 
Samyak Samadbi, ... 

Sandbidatta, ... 
Sangba, 96, 108, 154, 155, 
175, 
SaAgbamandala, 
Sangbaraksbita, 64, 

: Avadana, . . . 

Safigbarratna, 

Sangbata, 

San jay a, ... ... 

Sai.ijayi, 

Sanjiva, ... 

S'ankarakana, ... 

S'ankara-tirtba, 

S'ankas'ya, 

S'aftkba, 252, 253, 257, 308, 



Page 



295 

300 

208 

200 

207 

179 

206 

217 

91 

178 

151 

249 

75 

68 

67 

18 

293 

25 

247 

9 

287 

92 

129 

91 

288 

295 

36 

91 

2 

154 

74 

200 

251 

65 

64 

96 

115 

245 

249 

115 

288 

253 

37 

309 



Avadana, 



180, 
'24i", 



S'ankbagirij 

S'afiku, 

Sanku-sandbidatta Avadana, 

Sannibaddba, 

S'antamati, 

Avadana, 

S'anta-tirtha, ... 

S'antikara, ... 256, 257^ 

S'antimati, 

S'antipura, 

Sanvits 

Sapta-kumarika Avadana, 12, 

Sarabba Jataka, 

Sarabb anga, ... 160, 

Sarada, 

Saradbvaja, 

Sdradvati, 

Sarasvati, 

Sarathipura, 

S'ardulkarna, ... 225, 

Sari, ■ ... 45, 148, 

Sariputra, 30, 45, 49, 58, 64, 

71, 90, 100, 148, 149, 189, 
204, 229, 237, 
S'armd, Bbava, 
Sartbavaha, ... 91, 202, 

story of, 

Sarvadbarma-praves'a-mudra, 
Sarvardbarmasangata, 
Sarvad h armasvabb a vasamata - 

vipas'cbita, ... 
Sarvad urgati, ... 
Sarvagrama, ... 
Sarvojnamitra 
Sarvajinopabrit mantra, 
Sarvalokes'vara, 
Sarvananda, ... 60, 100, 195, 
Sarvartbasiddha, 124, 125, 
126, 129, 131, 133, 
Sarvasatt vapriyadarsan a, ... 
■ ■ story 

Sarvatatbagatosnisba sita- 

tapatra, 
Sarvavibbu, ... 
S'as'a Jataka, ... 



Page 
251 

74 

74 
117 

86 

ib. 
253 
258 

28 
256 

21 
221 

54 
161 
239 

91 
226 
223 
244 
157 

ib. 
310 



810 
14 

203 
293 
179 



208 
292 

91 
2:28 

15 
292 
289 

134 

242 

206 

227 

115 

50 



334 







Vage 






Page 


S'as'aka Avadana, 


• . • 


76 


Sinbavyasambbita 




91 


Sasrava, 


• • ■ 


3 


S'lri, 




129 


S'atadru, 


t • . 


130 


S'lriprabba, story of, 




137 


S'atapatra Jataka, 


. . • 


56 


S is'unaga. 




7 


S'atasahasrika, 


• ■■ 


177 


Sis'unago, 




ih. 


Sattvaushadha, 




60 


Sis'umara hill ... 




309 


Avadana 


J 


ih. 


S'itaprabha, 




25 


Sattvavara, 


• •• 


59 


S'itavatimabdvidya, 




292 


Saturn, , . , 


■ t ■ 


173 


Siva, 96, 119, 


199^ 


295 


Satvaguna, 


... 


209 


S'ivf, 


... 


70 


Satyarata, 


... 


102 


S'iviratra of Dbarmagama, 


92 


Satya Yuga, 


lOOJ 


250 


Snatavadana, ... 




198 


Saudasa, 




66 


Snigdhadhyas'aya, 




116 


Saugata ptilosopby, 


..• 


114 


Sobba, Raja, ... 




37 


Senagupta, 


270, 


271 


Sobhati, 


37' 


254 


Sena, Mahendra, 


60, 


68 


Sobbita, 


37, 


38 


Senart, M. Em.^ 




161 


Soma, 




354 


Shadadanta, story o£. 




301 


Somadeva 


... 


57 


Shadaksharita-mahavidya,. . . 


292 


Sonaka, 


* * • 


148 


Shadvashana, ... 


t 1 ■ 


141 


S'onapansbukula, 


< , a 


157 


Sheon-pu-ta-tsien-kwo-tu- 




S'onavasi, 


10, 


67 


king. 




167 


— Avadana, 




ih. 


She-tau-keen-king, 




227 


Sragdbara-stotra, 


... 


228 


Shi-chu-king, . . . 




81 


Sragdbara-tikS, 


... 


229 


Shi-hu, _ ... 




167 


S'ramana Mandala, 


... 


91 


Sbubhamanjari, 




223 


S'ravakas, 


114, 


297 


S'ibi, 




27 


S'ravastl, 12, 13, 14, 19 


,20, 




S'ikds'aehchbanda Maba- 




21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 


28, 




bhairava. 




196 


29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 


35, 




S'lkbi, 95, 150, 163, 


250^ 


251 


36, 37, 38, 46, 49, 68 


,71, 




S'lkbi-gbosa, ... 




70 


131, 162, 173, 174, 


198, 




S'ilu, 




156 


201, 202, 223, 224, 


237, 




S'ilpavanta, ... 146, 


147) 


148 


294, 295, 296, 297, 


299, 


302 


Sinha, 


18, 


97 


S'renya, 


. . • 


161 


Sifigbaketu, 




230 


S'resbthi, 


, , , 


52 


Siiibadatta Vajradbrik, 


* • * 


183 


'■' Jataka, 


50, 


ih. 


Sinbabanu, 


. . . 


123 


S'resbtblkanya Avadana 




88 


Sinbakalpa, 




97 


S'ri, 




119 


Sinhaketu, 




91 


S'n'bala, 


• • • 


211 


Sinba-kunjara Avadana, 




75 


Srigbana. 


. . t 


199 


Sinhala, 


96^ 


97 


S'ribarsba^s Nagananda, 


. . • 


78 


Sinhanada, 




292 


S'riman, 


58, 


279 


Sinbapura, t.. 


■ • • 


129 


S'rimatl, 


83, 


223 


Sinharaja, 
Sinba Senapati, 




45 
296 






92 




story of, 


".'.. 


300 


Sinbatanu, 


... 


122 


S'riiigabheri ... 


229, 


230 


Sinbavijrimbbita, 




91 


S ringabherivratavadana, 


• ' • 


231 


Sinhavikriditd, 


179^ 


288 


S'risambhava, ... 


1 1 1 


92 



335 



Page 
S'ronakatlkarna, 304; 305, 306 
S'ronapasaata, ... ... 91 

S'ronapurantaka, ... 307 

Stha'vira, ... ... 300 

Sthaviraka, ... ... ib. 

— — — - story of, ... ih. 

Sthula Koshtaka, ... 38 

Stories of Mara's attempts to 

seduce Buddha, ... 145 

wicked kings, ... 159 

Story of a blossom, ... il. 

- a Devaputra who had 
been cursed to be- 
come a hog, 
— — — Adinapunya, the ... 

a fowler and his prey, 

a ghost, 

' r-. a goatherd, 

— — > Ajatas'atru's conver- 
sion, 301, 

— — Ajiiatakaundilya., . . . 

an agricultural Brah- 
man 
. a poor Bahman, ... 
. a porpoise, 

■ Aranemi, 

a serpent-catcher, . . . 

■ — As'oka, 6, 



a tortoise, 

a Vedic student and 

S'ivi, . 

Bahubuddha, 

Bodhisattva's des- 
cent as a Nago, . . . 

certain gods, 

Chandana, 198, 

Chandra, 

Chandraprabha, ... 

Dhanapala, — 

Dharmalabdha, ... 

Dharmapala, 

Dharmaruchi, 

Five disciples, 

Five hundred cul- 

tivators,- 

Gadgadas'vara, . . . 

Hastaka, 

Hastini 



Story of Jyotihpala, 

by Kanakavarna 

Karshaka. 



Page 

121, 139 

... 310 

... 61 



ih. 

59 
138 
200 
156 

303 
158 

315 
314 

138 
287 
135 
304 
138 

129 
154 

141 
200 
293 
298 
310 
301 
155 
128 
310 
159 

314 
206 
201 
151 



Kas'yapa's retirement 

from home, 
^- Kauravyas, 
— Kausigha, 
— Kavikumara, 



64, 
162, 



Manichuda, 

Krishnasarpa, 

Kritajna, 

Kus'a,' 142, 274 

Mahagovinda, 

-^- Mahaushadha and 

Amara, 

Mahendrasena, 

Malini, 

Merchant's wife 25, 

Nagakumara, 

Nandana 

Padmottara, 

Panchhaka, ... 

Prabhava, 

Prityapreta, 

Punyavanta and his 

friends, 

Purna 

Piirnabhadra, 

Rupdvati, ... 

Sada-paribhiita, 

S'akuntika, 

Samudra, 

Sarigharakshita ... 

Sariputra, 

Sarthavaha, 202, 

Sarvandada, 

Sarvasattvapriya- 

darsana, 

Shadadanta, 

S'rimati, 

S'riprabha, 

— Sthaviraka, 



Subhanyaha, 

. Subhashitagaveshi, 

Subhuti, 

Suchandrima and a 

Kinnari> 
Sudhanakumdra;226, 



148 
297 
198 
302 
314- 
294 
302 
315 
153 

129 

68 
121 
314 

61 
3 14 
297 
311 
294 

ib; 

146 

305 
293 
315 

206 
l.'i7 
295 
310 
148 
293 
60 

206 
301 
300 
137 
300 
206 
59 
295 

129 

314 



336 



Story of Sugandhi, 

• S'ukla, 

S'ukla, 

Sumana, 

Sundara, 

Supriya, 

Surupa, 

'- Suvarnabha, 
Suvarnavarna, 



36, 
35. 



- Svagata, 

- Syama and Vajra 

sena, 

- Syamaka, 

- the Deer Kings, 

- the Discus, 

- the golden-handed, 

- the Lord's Progress 

from Uruvilva, .. 

• three Asuras, 

• Udayi, 
Upyaka, 

■ Vijitari, 

Vitas'oka 6 

Yas'odhara, 

■ Yasodhara's blandish' 

ments, 

• Yas'ovatij 
130 



Subahu, 
Subandhu, 

of Benares, 

Subhadra. ... 30, 68, 6& 
Subbadrangi, ... 
SubhaAgani, 
Subhanyaha, story of, 
Subhashita, 

Avadana, 

Subhashitagaveshi, 

Subhasa Jataka, 

Subhuti, 123, 126, 180, 190, 

205 

story of, 

Suehandra, ... 179,282 

Avadana, 

Suehandrima, ... 129 

Suchetana, 

Sudars'anS, 91, 110, 144, 145 

Sadasa, Raja, ... 

S'uddhMhyds'aya-, 



Paqe 
298 
2'a 
200 
299 
293 
298 
138 
294 
275 
309 

135 
136 
123 
199 

201 

156 
151 

149 
162 
148 
314 
61 

151 

296 

131 

142 

110 

301 

8 

136 

206 

66 

73 

29 

49 

296 
296 
288 
232 
130 
281 
157 
46 
116 



S'uddhodana. 64, 65, 69, 77, 

122, 123, 124, 125, 127, 

131, 133, 134, 136, 137, 

150, 151, 162, 154, 247, 

S'uddhodana Avadana, 

Sudeva, 

Sudhana, 62, 63, 90, 91, 

Sudhanusha, ... 130, 

Sudharma, ... 102, 

Sudharmaraja,... 

Sudras, ... 106, 

Sudrasuvirajita, 

Sugandhi, 
story of, 

Sugata, 2, 45. 61, 67, 122, 
136, 158, 250, 

Avadana, 

Siijata, 

Sukaravadana, 

Suketa, 

Sukhavati, . . . 236, 257, 

Sukhavati-vytiha, 

S'ukla, ... 85,201, 

Avadana, 88, 

S'uklodana, 

S'ukshmatvak, 

Suk-tung-Fo-muk-to-kow- 
tsio-ming-wang-king, 

Sukundala, 

Sulakshana, ... 

Sulochana, 

Sum^gadha, ... 78,237, 

Avadana, 78, 

Sumalya, 

Sumana, ...87,92,285, 

story of, 

Sumata, 

Sumati, 

Sumeru, . . 265 

Sumitrd of Ratnabhijjiha, .. 



Page 



Sumukha, 

Sunanda, 

Sundara, 

story of, 

Sundari, 
Sundrananda, ... 
S'unyabhairava, 
S'unyata, 



91, 

74, 119i 

58, 72, 
126, 



316 
77 
119 
92. 
131 
103 
254 
251 
288 
298 



276 
233 
265 
200 
162 
288 
23& 
296^ 
201 
122 
25 

173 

95 

230 

46 
238 
237 
7 
299"^ 
299 
139 

72 
286 

91 

92 
139 
293 

ih. 
254-^ 
127 
267 
215 



337 



S'unyatavada, . . 

S'unyavdda, 

Suparaga, 

Jataka, 

Supars'va, 
Supatra, 
Supindola, 
Suprabha, .. 
Suprabhasa, 
Suprabhata-stava, 
Supratistbita, . . 
Supriya,'23, 24,34,68, 69, 
298, 

story of, 

Suradatta, 

Suraiigama, .. 179, 

Surasena, ... 78, 

Surendra, . . 92, 

Surendrabba . . 
Surendradamana Avadana,. . . 



246, 

61, 

303, 



118, 

8,9, 

46, 47, 

47, 



Sures'varaprabba, 

Surupa, 

Surparaka, 

Avadana, 

Siirya, 

Suryaketu, 

Suryapraj napti-tika, 

Siiryodaya, 

Susambhava, . . . 

Sus'ila, 

Susima, 

Sutasoma, 

Sutasoma Jataka, 

Suvarnabba, story of, 

Suvarna-prabhasa, 

Suvarnabba, ... 

■ I . — Avaddna, 

Suvarnajambudbvaja-kancba- 

nabba, ... • • • 

Suvarna-prabbasa, 241, 

Suvarna-prabbasita, 
Suvarnaratnakara-cbh'atra- 

kiita,, ... 246, 

Suvarnavarna, 275, 376, 377, 
278, 
Suvarnavarnavadana, 
Suvichintitartba, 
Svabhavadbyas'aya, 



Page 
48 

178 
51 
ib. 

151 
ib. 
10 
91 
49 

239 
91 

299 
298 
217 
288 
110 
148 
92 
88 
247 
279 
307 
88 



69, 70, 96 

... 276 

... 240 

... 270 

245 

237 

11 

56 

56 

294 

243 

34 

88 



246 
244 
246 

248 

279 
275 
209 
116 



Svagata story o£ . . 

Svarangagbosba, . 

Svarnaketu, 

Svarnavati, . . . 254, 

Svastika Gribapati, 

Svastiman, 

Avadana,. 

Svayambbu, 249, 250, 251, 
253, 254, 256, 257, 

• — • Abbairavabali, 

Ksbetra, 

Parana, 



Page 
309 
211 
276 
276 
44 
68 



249, 



Svelabrada, 

S 'vetasubbranaga, 

Svetaketu, 

Syam^, 

Jataka, 



Syamaka, 



Taksbaka, 
Taksbas'ila, 



Avadana, 
story of, 



9, 10, 61. 



128, 
135, 



Tamradvipa, ... 

Tantra, 

Tapana, ... 

Tara, _ 228, 254, 259, 

Tarabbattarlkayaaamasbtot- 

tara-s'ata, 
Tarashtottara-s'ata-nama- 

stotra 
Tarquin tbe proud, . . . 

Tarsbing-jih-ling-kia-king, 
Ta sbing-mi-yen-king, 
Tatavisuta, ... 
Tatbagata, 43, 47, 84, 107, 

114, 181, 208, 216, 218, 
243, 236, 245, 
Tath agata-gubyaka, 
Tcbing-tsan- seng-t^o -f o-sbib- 

sban-king 

Tcbu-ja-bu, 
Techapa, ,., , 
Tej ass 'vara, 
Tejobbairava, ... 
Tejoganaraja, ... 
Tiksh n ddbyas'aya, 
Tiktamukba, ... 



288 
256 
256 
258 
253 
254 
122 
135 
137 

ib. 

75 
136 
257 

310 

97 
155 
115 
292 

ib. 

259 

g 

113 

90 

100 



286 
261 

236 
227 
254 
211 
256 
215 
116 
58 



838 







Pa^e 




fage 


Timlftgila, 


. • • 


77 


Upasika Achalasthira, 


91 


Tirthika, ^ ... 


14, 


20 


Upatishya, not an alias of 




Tishyaraksha, ,., 




61 


Maudgalyayana as stated 




Tomala, 


. . 1 


119 


on page 310 but a brother. 




Tosala, 


• • « 


91 


Both are sons of Sari, 45, 




Trapusha, 




156 


148, 149, 


310 


Trinanjana, 


. • t 


91 


Upavasa kusa, ... 


275 


Tripita 


* • • 


312 


Upayaka, ... 152, 


1.53 


Tripithaka, Japanese, 




183 


Uposhadha, 122, 265, 266, 


303 


Triptadhyas'aya, 


. . • 


116 


Avadana, 


265 


Tris'anku, 


225, 


226 


Upura, 


122 


Tulakuchi, 


. . . 


7 


Upyaka, story of. 


152 


Turakuri, 


. .. 


id. 


Urumunda Hill, 10, 


67 


Turakuvi, 


... 


id. 


IJruvilv'a,' 44, 132, 136, 137, 




Tushita, heaven, 122. 


123, 




157, 


161 


141, 


200, 


274 


Usha, 


174 


Tvarkata, 


• ■ • 


44 


Ushnishavijaya, 267, 


292 


Udapas'va, 


. , 


7 


Sadhana, - . . , 


292 


Udayana, 


74, 


124 


Utpala, ... 62, 


131 


Udayi, 


150, 


151 


Utpalaka, 


130 


Udayibhaddhako, 


. • * 


7 


Utpalavati ... 59, 91, 


310 


Udayibhava, . . . 


. . . 


ib. 


Utsanga parvata. 


123 


Udayin, 


• ■• 


ib. 


Uttara, ... 31,44,58, 


119.y ■ 


XJdayis'a, 


. . . 


ib. 


Uttarapatha, ... 


309 i' 


Udyota, 


• •• 


78 


Uttirna, . . . 86, 


87 


Udyaka, 


I • • 


160 


Avadana, 


86 


Ugrachanda, . . . 


■ > • 


196 


Uttiya, 


115 


Ujjayini,' ■ ... 


72, 


125 


Vagis'vara, ... 175,239, 


254 


Ujjvala, 


. . . 


166 


VSgmatI, ... 252,253, 


ib. 


TJlkamukha, . . . 


• • • 


122 


Vaijayanta, 


23 


Unmadayanti, 


• . • 


51 


Vairochana, ... - 


206 


— — Jataka, 


. . . 


ib. 


Vais'ali, 18,12,72,119,131, 




Unnatadhyas'aya, 




116 


132, 141, 165, 166, 167, 




Upachhanda, ... 




251 


266, 


278 


Upadika, 


, , , 


37 


Vaishnavi, 


196 


Upagupta, 67, 222, 229 


250, 




Vais'ishtha, 


135 




275, 


293 


Vais'ravaiia, ... 166, 


2i3 


— ^ Avadana, 


. . • 


67 


Vaisyas, ... 68, 106, 


251 


Upaka, 




157 


Vajapura, 


91 


UpakanthikarSma, 


< • • 


6 


Vajra, 


276 


Upakes'ini, 


. . . * 


255 


Vaj rabhairava-krodh adhipati 




Upali, 


152, 


153 


yoga, ■ ... 


2 


Upanalaka, 




253 


Vajracharchika, 


292 


Upananda, 


70, 


254 


Vajradlaka, 


2 


^ and Kuhana, 




70 


Vajradatta, 


112 


Upanshada, . . , 


• . • 


34 


Vajradhara, ,,.. 175,262, 


263 


Uparishya, 




58 


Vajragandba, ... 


292 


XJpasena, 


44, 


149 


Vajragdndhari, 


ih 



339 







Vage 




Page 


Vajragartha, ... 


81, " 


82 


Vasu, 


226 


Vajrakrodha, ... 




2 


Vasuhandhu, 3, 221, 233, 


234 


Vajraka, the mountain, 




63 


Vasudhara, 


232 


Vajrakrodha Dakini, 




1 


Vasuki, ... 239, 


257 


Vajrakuta, 


... 


250 


Vasumati, 


115 


Vajramahakdla, 


... 


239 


Vasundhara, 269, 270, 271, 




Vajramukuta, . . , 




228 


272, 273, 274, 


292 


Vajrapani, ... 84, 


259J 


263 


Vasundharastottara, 


274 


Vajrapinda, , . . 


... 


76 


Vasundhardvrata, 


271 


Vajraprakara mount, 


• • • 


245 


Vasundhara-vratotpatti Ava- 




Vajrasattva, 1, 2, 252, 


256, 


258 


dana, 


269 


Vajrasena, 




135 


Vasundharavrata-purvamur- 




Vajras'iichi, . . . 




268 


tya mandala. 


292 


Vajratara, 




292 


Vasupuri, ... , ■ , 


256 


Vajravarahi, . . . 




292 


Vatsa, 


160 


Vajravati, 


t • • 


76 


Vayu, _ ;.. 


256 


Vajravidarana, 




292 


V^yubhairava, 


ib. 


- nama-dharani- 




Vayupuri, tbe temple of, . . 


ib. 


hridayopahridaja. 




269 


Vedas, the, 14, 44, 125, 225, 




Vajravira, 




2 


295, 


296 


Vajra-yoga-s'adhana, 




il. 


Venuvana, 10, 46, 75, 


277 


Vajrayogini, . . . 




289 


Verudinga, ... 121, 


122 


Valkalayana, . . , 




63 


Vesthila, 


91 


Vanara Jdtaka, 




146 


Viehitradhyas'aya, 


116 


Va^i, 




239 


Videha, . . 39, 


56 


Vapushmadavadana, 


88^ 


200 


Viditajasa, 


13 


Vanijyakara . . . 


306, 


309 


Vidmisara, ... 7, 


8 


Varada, 


... 


251 


Vidura, 


68 


Varahi, 


... 


196 


Avadana, 


ib. 


Varanas'i, 121, 122, 123, 124, 




Vidvan, 


91 


126, 128, 135, 136, 


142, 




Vidyadatta, ... 


183 


146, 151, 154, 


157, 


255 


Vidyadhara, ... 


62 


Varaprabha, . . . 




234 


Vidyaharas, ... 


107 


Varapushpa, . . . 




218 


Vigatas'oka, ... 


8 


Varavari, 




129 


Vihara, 


88 


Varaya, 




251 


Avadana, ... 


ib. 


Varddhamana,... 




116 


Vijals, ... • • . 


20 


Varendra, 




245 


Vijayanta, ... ... 


69 


Varnas'varas, ... 




24 


Vijitari, 


148 


Varukachha, . . . 




92 


Vikrama, ... 


234 


Varshayana, ... 




2 


Vikramasthala, 


253 


Vartakapota Jataka, 




52 


Vikramas'ila, ... 


222 


Varuna, 14, 22, 107, 199, 254 


J 


Vikrames'vara, 


ib. 




256, 


257 


Vilokitamurdhd, 


179 


Vasava, 


305, 


306 


Vimald, ... ••• 


82 


Vasavadatta, . . . 


... 


67 


Vimaladatta, ... 


206 


Vas'ishtha, 


58, 


265 


Vimalagarbha, • • . 


ib. 



340 



Page 
Vimalanetra, ... ••• 206 

Vimaldvati, ... ... 253 

Vimbisara, 24,119,124,161, 

294, 300 
Vinaya Sutra, .. . ... 169 

Vindhya, ... 44,46, 125 

Vindusara, ... ... 7 

Vipas'cbit, ... ... 25 

Vipas'yi, 34, 37, 38, 58, 87, 

88, 95, 96, 100, 139, 153, 

229, 250, 276, 278, 279, 

295, 298, 

Vipas'yi, the stupa of, ... 

Vipuladhyas'aya, . . . 

Viradatta, 

"Viraja, 

Virajadhvaja, ... 
Virakus'a Avadana, 
Viravati, ... ... 

Virocbanadharini, 

Viriidhaka, ..", 243, 

Virupa, 14, 43, 275, 278, 

Viriipaksha, ... 68, 166, 

Viriipavadana, 

Virurha, ... ... 

Viryyavanta, ... 146, 

Vis'a Jataka, ... 
i'-Vis'akha, ... 123, 

Vis'esliachaili, 
Vishkambhi, 



Vishnu, 



Purina, 



96, 97, 

Suvarnavarana, 

25, 96, 



276, 



Vis'uddhamati, 

Vis'vabbadra, 

Vis'vabhu, ... ... 

Vis'vachandraka, ... 
Yis'vakarma, 78, 125, 140, 



299 
88 
116 
183 
204 
246 
274 
256 
276 
166 
279 
243 
36 
68 
148 
52 
124 
219 
98 
96 
199 
7 
141 
281 
251 
281 
256 



Vis'vambhara, ... 50, 

, Jataka, 

Vis'vavasu, ... • • • 

Vitas'oka, ... • • • 

Viv arttanacharya, • • • 
Vratamala, 

Vratavadana-inala,103, 231, 

Vrati, ... ••• 

Vrinda, ... • • • 
Vrishabhadatta, 
Vrishabb a Jatak a, 

Vulture peak, the 243, 
Vyaghrapadya, 

Yachana, ... ••• 

Yajna, ... ••• 

Ya jna Jataka, ... • • • 
Yakshamalla, ... 

Yakshas, ... 10, 
Yama, ... 168,288, 

Yamales'vara, . . ... 
Yamuna, 
Yana-siitra, 

Yas'odbara, 27, 42, 43, 61, 

64, 65, 66, 69, 70, 125, 

126, 127, 129, 131, 133, 

135, 136, 137, 145, 151, 

152, 175, 205, 218, 

Yas'odhara's blushing, 

■ — choice, 

revenge, 

Yasomati, ... 18, 
Yas'omitra, ... 37, 
~- or Sundara Ava- 



ddna, 
Yasovati, story of, 
Yogavira, 
Yogini, 
Yogini -yoga-hridaya. 



Page 

51 

50 

77 

11 

116 

223 

275 

223 

44 

237 

146 

285 

123 

47 

51 

ib. 

258 

157 

295 

258 

160 

205 



239 
126 
127 
126 
19 
74 

a. 

296 

2 

ib. 

lb. 



