n\  1 


€mm\\  ^nivmii^  | 

lilxmn 

FROM  THB  INCOME  OF  THE 

FISKE    ENDOWMENT    FUND 

THE  BEQUEST  OF 

Millard  m»kt^ 

Librarian  of  the  University  1868- 1883 

fl^7ivn ''"' j4^il 

Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  this  book  is  in 
the  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31 9240229861 1 5 


Cornell  University  Library 
PK  3798.S945E5   1911 


The  enchanted  parrot  ibeina  a  selection 


3   1924  022  986   115 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 


THE   ENCHANTED 
PARROT 

Being  a  Selection  from  the  "  Suka  Saptati," 

or,  The  Seventy  Tales  of  a  Parrot, 

Translated  from  the  Sanskrit 

Text  by  the  Reverend 

B.  HALE  \yORTHAM,  B.A 

TRINITY    COLLEGE,     OXFORD  ;     RECTOR 
OF    DUNTON    WAYLETT 

Translator  of  "  The  Satahas  of  Bhartrihari,  The 

Hitopadeia  "  in  the  Universal  Library, 

etc.,  etc 


LONDON 

LUZAC    &    CO 

46  GREAT  RUSSELL  STREET,  W.C 

1911 


A.^:n«^|^«^ 


BuTLBR  &  Tanner 

The  Selwood  Pkinting  Wosks 

Fkome  and  London 


Contents 


STORY  PAGE 

Translator's,  Introduction        ....  7 

Introduction  to  the  Stories     ....  9 

1.  Mohana  and  Lakshmt    .  .  .  .  -15 

2.  Yaiodevl  and  her  Transmigrations  .          .          ■  17 

3.  Prince  Sudarsana  and  Vimala.          ...  20 

4.  The  Stupid  Brahman  who  married  a  Witch       .  22 

5.  The  Queen  and  the  Laughing  Fish           .          .  27 

6.  Sumata,  Jayanti,  and  Ganesa          ...  32 

7.  The  Brahman  smd  the  Magic  Cloak         .          .  37 

8.  The  Merchant  who  lost  his  House  and  Property  40 


9.  The  Queen  and  the  Laughing  Fish  concluded 

10.  Devasa  and  his  Two  Wives    . 

11.  RambhikS,  and  her  BrUhman  Lover 

12.  SobhiM.  and  the  Vakula  Tree 

13.  The  Wily  Rajika  .... 

14.  The  Ingenious  Dhanasri 

15.  What  Srldevya  did  when  she  lost  her  Anklet 

16.  Mugdika  who  got  the  better  of  her  Husband 

17.  Gunadhya,  the  Brahman  of  ready  wit 

19.  The  prudent  Santika  who  saved  her  Husband's 

Credit 

20.  Kelika  who  deceived  her  Husband  by  pretended 

afEection  . 

22.  MEldhaka  and  the  Camel 


23.    The  Son  of  the  Promise  who  lost  all  his  Money      61 


25.  The  Buddhist  Mendicant 

26.  Ratnidevl  and  her  Two  Lovers 

28.  What  Devika  did  when  she  was  caught  with  her 

Lover      ..... 

29.  The  Clever  Sundari 

30.  Muladeva,  who  saved  himself  by  his  tact 

31.  Sasaka  the  Hare,  and  the  Lion 

32.  Rajanl  and  the  Bundle  of  Wheat  . 


42 

44 
46 
48 
49 
50 
52 
55 
56 

58 

59 

60 


69 
71 

72 
73 
74 
75 
76 


6  CONTENTS 

STORY  PAGE 

33.  Rambhikd.  and  her  Four  Lovers     ...       77 

34.  The  Brahman,  the  Girl,  and  the  Five  Ears  of 

Corn 80 

35.  Sambhaka,  the  Seed  Merchant        .         .         .81 

36.  Nayint  and  the  SUk  Dress      ....       82 

37.  P<irnap41a   the   Ploughman   and   his   Master's 

Daughter 83 

39.  The  Iron  Weights  and  Scales  which  were  eaten 

by  Mice 84 

40.  Subuddhi  and  Kubuddhi         ....       86 

42.  The  Lady  Tiger  Slayer  ....       88 

43.  The  Lady  Tiger  Slayer,  continued.  .  .       89 

44.  The  Lady  Tiger  Slayer,  continued  .  .  .91, 

46.  The  Goblin  and  the  Brahman's  Wife      .  .       92 

47.  The  GobUn  and  the  Brahman's  Wife,  continued     94 

48.  Sakatala,  the  Wise  Minister   ....       95 

50.  Dharmabuddhi  and  Dushtabuddhi  ...       97 

51.  The  Brahman  who  put  the  Thieves  to  flight     .       99 

52.  The  Adventures  of  Durdamana  and  his  three 

Companions      ......     100 

54.  Dharmadatta  and  his  Minister  Vishnu    .  .104 

55.  The  Cheating  Brethman  and  the  Cobbler  .     106 
57.    Chandralekh&  who  fell  in  love  with  one  of  the 

King's  Wise  Men      .....     106 

59.  The  Stupid  and  Ill-tempered  Rajaputra  .     109 

60.  Haridatta  and  the  Jewelled  Hall    .  .  .112 

61.  Tejuka.  and  the  Pretended  Doctor  -113 

65.  The  Disciple  of  the  Ascetic  and  the  Meat         .     115 

66.  The  Fowler  and  the  Pigeons  .  .  .116 

67.  The  Monkey  and  the  Crocodile       .  .  -117 

68.  The  Brd.hman  and  the  Merchant's  Daughter   .     120 

69.  Vajik4,  who  pretended  to  fall  into  the  Tank  .     121 

70.  The  Gandharva's  Daughter  who  was  cursed  by 

Narada   .......     123 


Introduction 

The  Suka  Saptati,  seventy  tales  of  a  parrot,  are  quite 
characteristic  of  Eastern  story.  The  peg  on  which 
they  hang  is  a  certain  Prabhavatt.  This  lady's 
husband,  whose  name  is  Madana,  has  gone  on  a 
long  journey.  He  has,  however,  left  her  his  parrot, 
a  bird  which  appears  to  be  under  a  charm.  Prab- 
havati,  after  her  husband  has  been  absent  some 
little  time,  begins  to  feel  rather  dull,  and  her  attend- 
ants, or  friends,  suggest  that  she  had  better  look 
out  for  some  admirer  to  console  her  during  his 
absence.  She  accordingly  is  preparing  to  start 
on  this  errand,  when  the  parrot  suddenly  finds  his 
voice,  and  remarks  very  strongly  on  Prabhavati's 
disreputable  intentions.  Prabhavati  makes  up  her 
mind  to  have  the  parrot's  neck  wrung,  but  before 
actually  departing,  and  ordering  the  bloodthirsty 
deed  to  be  carried  out,  she  reflects  that  after  all  it 
is  only  a  bird  speaking,  and  tells  him  that  she  means 
to  go  in  spite  of  his  well-meant  advice.  This  starts 
the  parrot  off,  and  he  bids  her  go  by  all  means,  if 
she  is  as  clever  as  some  one  whom  he  knows.    Prab- 

7 


8  INTRODUCTION 

hivati  asks  him  who  this  person  may  be,  and 
wherein  their  cleyemess  consists.  This  leads  to 
Story  I,  and  just  when  the  climax  arrives  the  parrot 
stops,  and  asks  Prabhavati  and  her  friends  how 
they  think  the  story  ends.  Of  course  they  don't 
know,  and  the  parrot  keeps  them  on  tenterhooks 
for  a  bit,  and  finally  tells  them.  By  this  time  the 
evening  is  tolerably  far  advanced,  so  that  it  is  of 
no  use  for  Prabhavati  to  set  out  on  her  love-making 
expeditions,  and  she  goes  to  bed  with  her  attend- 
ants. This  process  is  repeated  for  sixty-nine  even- 
ings, and  finally  Prabhelvati's  husband  returns. 
From  what  he  gathers,  he  does  not  altogether 
approve  of  his  wife's  goings  on  in  his  absence  }  and 
seems  as  if  he  meant  to  proceed  to  extremities, 
when  the  eloquent  parrot  calms  him  down  with  the 
seventieth  story,  after  which  Madana's  father  ob- 
serves a  great  festival  in  honour  of  his  son  and 
daughter-in-law,  and  the  parrot,  having  worked 
out  the  charm  (or  the  curse),  ascends  to  heaven  in 
a  rain  of  flowers. 

Note. 

The  tales  all  begin  and  end  in  a  similar  manner.  I  have 
given  the  introduction  and  conclusion  to  the  first  two  as 
examples,  but  it  does  not  seem  necessary  to  go  through 
all  the  stories  in  the  same  way.  Some  of  the  Tales  have 
been  omitted  as  unsuitable  for  translation  into  English. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

SUKA  SAPTATI 

Homage  to  Sarada,  the  abode  of  Divine 

Wisdom 

There  is  a  city  called  Chandrapura,  whose  king 
was  Vikramasena.  A  man  of  noble  family  called 
Haridatta  lived  there  too.  He  had  a  wife  named 
Sringarasundart,  and  a  son — Madana.  Madana's 
wife's  name  was  Prabh3,vati,  the  daughter  of  Soma- 
datta,  a  man  of  importance  in  the  town.  Now 
Madana  was  a  bad  son.  He  was  entirely  given  up 
to  the  pleasures  of  sense,  and  cared  for  nothing 
but  gambling,  drink,  and  women.  His  father  and 
mother  were  filled  with  grief  and  anxiety  at  their 
son's  evil  courses.  One  day  a  certain  Trivikrama, 
a  Brahman,  who  had  observed  Haridatta's  afflic- 
tion, went  to  his  house  to  see  him,  and  took  with 
him  a  confidential  friend  in  the  shape  of  a  parrot. 
"  My  dear  Haridatta,"  said  the  Brahman,  "  take 


10  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

care  of  this  parrot,  and  treat  it  as  though  it  were 
your  own  son  j  I  think  very  likely  your  grief  will 
be  alleviated  by  its  knowledge  and  wisdom."  So 
Haridatta  took  the  parrot  and  handed  it  over 
to  his  son,  who  put  it  into  a  golden  cage  and 
kept  it  in  his  sleeping-chamber.  One  day  the 
parrot  was  in  a  reflective  mood  and  said — 

"  My  son  !  tears  shed  from  your  father's  eyes 
for  your  wickedness  bedew  the  ground.  These 
evil  courses  will  ruin  you,  as  they  ruined  Deva- 
§arma." 

"  And  pray  who  was  Devasarma  ?  "  replied 
Madana.    The  parrot  said — 

"  There  is  a  city  called  Panchapura,  and  in  it 
lived  a  Brahman  called  Satyasarma.  His  wife  was 
Dharmaiala,  and  his  son  Devaiarma.  Devasarma 
was  so  intent  on  the  pursuit  of  sacred  wisdom,  that 
he  forgot  all  about  the  duty  he  owed  to  his  parents, 
and  started  for  a  distant  country,  where  he  per- 
formed penances  on  the  banks  of  the  Bhagirathi. 
One  day  when  he  was  on  his  pilgrimage,  it  so  hap- 
pened that  a  crane  flying  overhead  dropped  some 
excrement  on  him.  The  ascetic  looked  up  with 
eyes  of  fury,  and  the  unfortunate  bird  immediately 
fell  to  earth  scorched  to  ashes  at  his  glance. 

"  Devaiarma  continued  his  journey,  and  pre- 
sently  reached   the   house   of   a    Brahman.    The 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  ii 

Brahman's  wife  was  sent  by  her  husband  to  meet 
him,  and  by  his  orders  reproved  Devaiarma  for 
having  destroyed  so  excellent  a  bird  as  the  crane, 
finally  telling  him  to  go  elsewhere  and  look  for  a 
lodging.  So  Devaiarma  put  up  with  the  repulse 
and  continued  his  journey,  for  the  fact  that  his 
breach  of  temper  was  known  made  him  feel  very 
uncomfortable. 

"  At  last  he  reached  Varanasi,  and  went  to  the 
dwelling  of  Dharma  VyMha,  a  learned  Brahman, 
who  had  been  changed,  in  consequence  of  a  curse, 
into  a  butcher.  He  found  the  butcher  at  home — 
a  rough,  savage-looking  man,  his  hands  all  covered 
with  blood,  the  very  image  of  the  demon  of  de- 
struction. Devaiarma  stood  still  horrified  at  such 
a  spectacle ;  but  the  butcher  bid  him  good-day, 
and  inviting  him  into  the  house,  gave  him  food 
and  lodging.  When  he  had  been  refreshed  and 
rested,  he  said  to  the  butcher :  '  Tell  me,  where 
did  you  and  your  good  wife  learn  your  wisdom  ? 
Whence  did  you  gain  this  divine  knowledge  that 
you  have  ?  ' 

"  The  butcher  said — 

"  '  He  who  observes  rightly  the  duties  that  belong 
to  his  own  condition; 

He  whose  mind  is  not  distracted  by  outward 
objects,  be  they  great  or  small  j 


13  THE  ENCHANTED   PARROT 

He  who  obeys  his  father,  who  is  temperate  in  all 
things  ;■ 

He  is  the  true  devotee,  he  has  the  true  wisdom, 
he  has  attained  to  virtue  and  righteousness. 

"  '  Such  am  I  and  my  wife  ;  but  as  for  you,  you 
have  abandoned  your  father,  you  are  a  wanderer 
from  your  home,  you  are  not  worthy  of  being  even 
spoken  to  by  one  of  my  position.  I  respect  the 
duties  of  hospitality,  therefore  I  have  answered 
your  question.' 

"  Devaiarma  said  :  '  And  wherein  does  perfect 
discipline  consist  ?  ' 

"  The  butcher  replied — 

"  '  Those  who  fail  to  honour  those  worthy  of 
honour ; 

Those  who  do  not  respect  persons  worthy  of 
respect ; 

Those  who  despise  others. 

Such  as  these  do  not  enter  paradise." 

"  On  receiving  this  advice  Devaiarma  retraced 
his  steps  and  went  home  again.  He  performed  his 
duties,  and  so  became  famous  in  this  world,  and 
in  the  next  attained  to  happiness. 

"  This  is  what  you  must  do,"  continued  the 
parrot.  "  You  must  do  yottr  duty  in  the  sphere  in 
which  you  have  been  placed,  and  you  must  respect 
your  parents'  wishes." 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  13 

At  these  words  Madana  repented  of  his  conduct, 
returned  home  and  behaved  with  due  regard  to 
his  father  and  mother.  Soon  after,  with  their 
permission,  he  left  them,  took  leave  of  his  wife 
Prabhavati,  and  started  for  a  far  country.  His 
wife  dutifully  mourned  his  absence  for  some 
days,  when  at  last  her  friends  advised  her  to 
stop  her  lamentations,  and  try  and  find  some 
one  to  console  her  solitude.  What  they  said 
was  this :  "A  father,  a  husband,  are  all  very 
well  as  long  as  they  are  aUve,  but  when  they  are 
both  dead,  or  as  good  as  dead,  it  is  a  great  mistake 
to  waste  one's  life  and  youth  in  tears  and  lamenta- 
tions. So  though  you  have  lost  your  husband 
you  have  not  lost  your  youth  and  vigour,  and  you 
should  make  the  best  of  both." 

Prabhavati  thought  there  was  something  in  this 
advice,  and  proceeded  to  carry  it  out  without  delay, 
by  falling  in  love  with  a  certain  Ganachandra.  In 
fact,  she  went  on  in  such  a  way  that  the  parrot  was 
moved  to  rebuke  her  severely  and  said  :  "  Really  ! 
such  behaviour  is  too  bad !"  and  a  good  deal  more 
to  the  same  effect. 

Prabhavati  was  so  angry  at  the  parrot's  presum- 
ing to  advise  her,  that  she  intended  to  tell  her 
servants  to  wring  the  parrot's  neck  as  soon  as  she 
was  gone ;    before  starting,  however,  she  waited  a 


14  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

moment  to  offer  some  betel  at  the  shrine  of  her 
protectmg  divinity. 

While  she  was  engaged  upon  this,  the  parrot 
said  :  "  Well,  good  luck  to  you  !  Where  are  you 
going  ?  " 

She  thought  to  herself,  "  After  all,  it  is  only  a 
bird,"  and  said  laughing,  "  If  you  want  to  know,  I 
am  going  to  meet  a  lover." 

"  Shocking  !  "  exclaimed  the  parrot ;  "  I  never 
heard  of  any  woman  of  decent  character  doing 
such  a  thing  !  However,  if  your  mind  is  made  up, 
right  or  wrong,  I  suppose  you  must  go.    For — 

"  People  of  low  character,  when  they  are  de- 
pressed, always  try  to  get  some  kind  of  diversion  ; 
like  the  woman  of  light  character  who  dragged  the 
merchant's  son  about  by  his  hair." 

"  And  what  was  that  ?  "  said  PrabhEivati,  making 
the  parrot  a  respectful  bow. 

"  If  you  will  make  love,"  answered  the  parrot, 
"  by  all  means  make  love  ;  but  before  you  go,  hear 
the  tale  I  have  to  tell  you." 

Prabhavati  assented,  and  the  parrot  said — 


THE  ENCHANTED   PARROT  15 

Story   I 

In  a  town  called  Chandrdvati  there  lived  a  certain 
Rslja.  His  name  was  BhJma.  A  man  called 
Mohana  was  also  an  itihabitant  of  the  same  town. 
He  was  the  son  of  a  prominent  townsman,  and  was 
very  rich.  One  day  he  fell  in  love  with  the  wife  of 
a  fellow-citizen  whose  name  was  Lakshmi.  So  he 
got  hold  of  a  woman  called  Puma  who  was  a  sort 
of  go-between  in  these  matters,  and  commissioned 
her  to  take  a  message  for  him  to  Lakshmi  when  her 
husband  was  away  from  home.  PumS,,  who  had 
been  handsomely  feed,  did  as  she  was  asked.  She 
went  to  the  house  and  said  to  Lakshmi,  "  There  is 
a  man  here,  in  this  town,  who  has  fallen  a  victim 
to  your  attractions ;  I  wish  you  would  invite  him 
to  your  house."  "  Well !  "  replied  Lakshmi,  "  this 
seems  to  me  hardly  the  sort  of  thing  that  a  woman 
of  respectable  character  ought  to  do,  but  as  you 
seem  to  have  made  the  bargain  with  him,  I  will  do 
as  you  wish.    For,  as  the  sajdng  is — 

"  '  Hari  cannot  avoid  the  deadly  poison ; 

The  tortoise  bears  up  the  world  on  his  back ; 

The  ocean  endures  the  submarine  fire  in  its 
depths  5 

Honest  people  always  carry  out  their  engage- 
ments.' " 


i6  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

When  she  heard  this  Puma  was  charmed,  and  so 
in  the  evening  she  brought  Lakshmi  to  her  own 
house  as  the  meeting  place  with  Mohana.  When 
it  came  to  the  point,  Mohana  was  prevented  from 
coming  by  an  accident,  and  Lakshmi,  who  was 
anticipating  some  amusement,  said  :  "  Well !  if 
Mohana  can't  come,  you  had  better  invite  some  one 
else."  So  Purni  did  as  she  was  asked,  and  by 
some  blunder  or  other  brought  Lakshmi  her  own 
husband  as  a  visitor."  The  parrot  continued : 
"  Here  was  a  pretty  state  of  things  ;  what  do  you 
suppose  her  husband  did,  and  what  do  you  suppose 
she  did  ?  " 

Prabhavati  and  her  friends  replied  :  "  We  haven't 
the  slightest  idea ;    pray  tell  us  what  happened." 

"  Certainly,"  answered  the  paxrot,  "  I  shall  be 
delighted  to  tell  you,  if  you  will  wait  here  for  a 
while." 

They  gladly  assented,  and  after  some  time  had 
passed,  the  parrot  finished  the  story :  "  Lakshmi 
at  once  recognized  her  husband,  and  saying, '  Hullo  ! 
so  it  is  you,  is  it  ?  You  have  come  back  imex- 
pectedly,  have  you  ? '  seized  him  by  his  hair,  and 
dragged  him  about  saying,  '  You  scoundrel !  You 
are  always  telUng  me  that  the  only  woman  in  the 
world  you  care  for  is  your  wife.  Now  I  have  found 
you  out,  and  I  will  make  you  sorry  for  it.'    Well, 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  17 

the  end  of  it  all  was  that  Haridatta  pacified  his 
wife  with  some  difficulty,  and  at  last  persuaded 
her  to  go  home  with  him." 

Prabh^vati  and  her  friends  were  enchanted  with 
the  story,  and  as  night  was  now  tolerably  far 
advanced  they  all  went  to  bed. 


Story  II 

The  next  evening  PrabhElvatt  began  to  think  over 
her  pursuit  of  a  lover,  and  asked  the  parrot  for  his 
advice.  The  parrot  said :  "  Go,  by  all  means,  if 
you  desire  to  go  !  That  is  to  say,  if  you  are  as  clever 
in  getting  out  of  difiiculties  as  Yasodevi  was." 

"  And  pray  who  was  Yasodevi  ?  "  rejoined 
Prabhdvati. 

"  If  I  tell  you,"  replied  the  parrot,  "  and  keep 
you  here,  perhaps  you  will  carry  out  your  intention 
of  wringing  my  neck." 

"  Never  mind,"  answered  Prabhivati,  "  be  the 
result  what  it  may,  I  must  hear  the  story  of  Ya§o- 
devi." 

So  the  parrot  began — 

"  There  is  a  town  called  Nandana,  whose  prince 
bore  the  same  name.    He  had  a  son,  Rdjasekhara, 

B 


i8  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

and  Rajasekhara's  wife  was  called  SaiiprabM. 
Now  a  certain  Dhanasena  came  across  her,  and  fell 
violently  in  love  with  her.  He  was  absolutely  con- 
sumed with  the  flame  of  his  passion,  and  at  last  his 
mother,  Yasodevi,  asked  him  what  was  the  matter. 
With  many  sighs  and  tears  he  told  her.  He  must 
have  the  prince's  wife.  She  was  very  difficult  to 
get  hold  of,  but  he  could  not  live  without  her.  On 
hearing  this,  Yaiodevi  bid  him  be  of  good  cheer, 
and  said  she  would  see  what  could  be  done.  So  she 
abstained  from  all  food,  and  putting  on  her  best 
clothes  went  to  Saliprabha,  taking  with  her  a  bitch. 
She  assumed  an  appearance  of  grief,  and  taking 
Saliprabha  aside,  said  to  her  :  '  You  see  this  bitch ; 
well,  you  and  I  and  this  bitch  were  sisters  in  a 
former  existence.  As  for  me,  I  had  no  compunction 
in  accepting  the  advances  of  my  lovers ;  you  re- 
ceived their  addresses,  but  with  some  hesitation. 
But  this  was  not  the  case  with  our  sister.  She 
would  not  have  anything  to  do  with  men  at  any 
price  ;•  she  kept  them  at  a  distance,  and  now  you 
see  to  what  a  condition  she  is  reduced.  She  has  to 
live  as  a  bitch,  all  the  time  recollecting  what  she 
was.  You,  through  your  reluctance,  may  or  may 
not  remember  your  former  state ;  but  as  far  as  I 
am  concerned,  I  have  no  recollection  of  it  whatever, 
for  I  thoroughly  enjoyed  myself.    And  so  I  am 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  19 

sorry  for  you,  and  I  am  come  to  warn  you  by  showing 
you  this  bitch,  and  telling  you  her  story.  If  you 
have  got  a  lover  1  advise  you  to  give  him  all  he 
wants,  and  save  yourself  from  the  disagreeables 
of  a  future  state  hke  this.  For  the  person  who 
gives  liberally  will  himself  be  the  recipient  of  end- 
less favours.  It  is  said :  "  Those  who  beg  from 
house  to  house,  merely  let  you  know  that  they  are 
there  ;  they  do  not  ask  for  anything,  for  the  liberal 
always  give  alms  freely  according  to  their  condition, 
to  those  in  need  of  assistance."  ' 

"  Sasiprabha  was  quite  overcome  by  this  address, 
and  embracing  Yasodevi  wept  over  her  and  en- 
treated her  assistance  in  escaping  from  the  fate 
which  seemed  to  impend.  So  Yasodevi  introduced 
Sasiprabha  to  her  own  son,  and  Rajasekhara,  who 
had  been  bribed  with  magnificent  presents  of  gold 
and  jewels,  was  quite  willing  to  let  her  go,  and 
thought  that  a  great  piece  of  good  luck  had  befallen 
him. 

"  So  Yaiodevi  by  her  skill  and  cleverness  cheated 
the  prince  of  the  princess,  and  gained  her  own  ends. 
If  you  are  as  clever  as  she  was,  go  ■;  if  not,  stay  at 
home — go  to  bed,  and  don't  make  a  fool  of  yourself." 


20  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

Story  III 

In  a  town  called  Viial4,  the  ruler  of  which  was 
Sudariana,  lived  a  merchant  whose  name  was 
Vimala.  Now  Vimala  was  the  possessor  of  two 
very  beautiful  and  charming  wives,  and  these 
ladies  had  attracted  the  attention  of  a  rascal 
named  Kuntala.  He  set  his  mind  on  getting 
hold  of  them  somehow  or  other,  and  eventu.ally 
went  to  the  shrine  of  Durgi,  and,  making  a  costly 
offering  to  the  goddess,  prayed  her  to  make  him 
exactly  like  Vimala.  Durgi  granted  him  his 
petition,  and  he  accordingly  went  straight  to 
Vimala's  house  and  took  possession  of  it  in  the 
owner's  absence.  He  speedily  won  all  the  ser- 
vants over  by  handsome  presents,  and  made  him- 
self so  extremely  agreeable  to  Vimala's  wives  that 
they  gave  him  everything  he  asked  for.  The  ser- 
vants could  not  quite  make  out  what  it  all  mccint, 
but  they  supposed  that  Vimala  had  at  last  learnt 
the  fleeting  and  transitory  nature  of  wealth,  and 
had  determined  hereafter  to  be  liberal.  In  due 
course  of  time  the  genuine  Vimala  returned  home, 
and  found  the  door  locked  against  him.  He  was 
in  a  terrible  state,  and  uttered  curses  and  lamen- 
tations without  end.  While  he  was  thus  engaged 
some  of  his  relations  came  by  and  he  appealed  in 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  21 

vain  to  them  :  "  Come  and  help  me  !  I  have 
been  cheated  by  the  prince  of  scoundrels  !  " 

Presently  a  party  of  merchants  came  by  who 
viewed  the  spectacle  with  astonishment.  They  too 
declined  to  give  any  assistance,  so  iinally  he  went 
to  the  chief  of  the  police  and  laid  a  complaint. 
"  Sir  !  "  he  exclaimed,  "  I  have  been  done  by  the 
biggest  blackguard  in  the  whole  town."  So  the 
poUce  took  the  matter  up,  and  went  to  Vimala's 
house  to  set  things  straight. 

Vimala  did  not  accompany  them,  but  he  had 
taken  care  to  rouse  their  interest  in  his  case 
by  a  liberal  expenditure  of  money.  When  they 
reached  the  house  they  saw  Vimala  (as  they 
thought)  indoors.  So  they  said,  "  It  is  all  right, 
there  is  Vimala  inside ! "  Presently  the  real 
Vimala,  who  had  followed  them,  appeared.  They 
were  rather  at  a  loss  to  know  which  was  which, 
and  the  end  of  it  was  that  a  disturbance  arose,  and 
a  good  deal  of  damage  was  done. 

The  Prince  Sudarsana  got  all  the  blame  for  this  ; 
as  it  is  said — 

"  The  fire  of  revolt  breaks  out,  produced  by 
tyranny  and  oppression.  It  becomes  unquench- 
able, and  the  majesty  and  the  dignity  of  the 
prince  is  injured  by  it." 

The  whole  matter  then  came  before  the  prince. 


22  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

and  after  some  reflection  he  hit  upon  the  following 
expedient.  He  took  Vimala's  wives  apart  and 
said  :  "  Pray  tell  me  !  What  presents  did  Vimala 
give  you  when  he  married  you  ?  How  much 
money  did  he  give  you  ?  What  business  does  he 
carry  on  ?  What  were  his  father  and  mother, 
and  what  is  the  position  of  his  family  ?  " 

They  answered  his  questions  quite  frankly,  and 
he  soon  found  out  all  he  wanted  to  know.  Then 
he  put  the  same  questions  in  their  equivalent  form 
to  the  two  men.  Their  answers,  of  course,  were 
quite  different.  So  he  decided  that  the  true  Vimala 
was  the  man  whose  answers  corresponded  with 
what  the  ladies  had  told  him,  and  to  him  he  re- 
stored his  wives,  while  the  other — the  scoundrel — 
was  turned  out  of  the  town. 


Story  IV 

There  is  a  Brahman  settlement  called  Soma- 
prabha,  and  in  it  lived  a  Brdhman,  famous  for 
his  wisdom  and  righteousness,  named  Somasama. 
His  daughter  was  remarkable  for  her  beauty  and 
grace,  but  she  had  the  reputation  of  being  a  witch. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  23 

The  consequence  of  this  was,  that  in  spite  of  her 
charms,  no  one  could  be  found  bold  enough 
to  marry  her.  Somasama  therefore  travelled 
about  to  try  and  find  a  husband  for  his  daughter, 
and  in  the  course  of  his  wanderings  reached  Janas- 
thina — a  Brahman  town.  There  he  came  across 
a  Brdhman  named  Govinda,  as  stupid  as  he  was 
poor,  and  he  prevailed  on  him  to  take  his  daughter 
off  his  hands.  So  Govinda  married  the  dangerous 
damsel,  infatuated  by  her  good  looks,  and  that 
in  spite  of  the  advice  of  all  his  friends,  who  did 
their  best  to  persuade  him  to  have  nothing  to  do 
with  her.  The  union  did  not  turn  out  a  success, 
for  the  bride  was  active  and  lively,  while  Govinda 
was  a  dull,  heavy  sort  of  person  ;  so  she  never 
ceased  to  lament  the  fact  that  she  was  quite 
thrown  away  on  him.  As  the  sa3dng  is :  "A 
lord  full  of  all  the  virtues  is  no  good  for  a  woman 
of  life  and  energy  :  such  energy  as  the  virtuous 
and  the  ascetic  possess  is  worthless  j  or  only  a 
source  of  evil." 

One  day  she  said  to  Govinda  :  "  It  is  a  long  time 
since  I  left  my  parents ;  I  wish  you  would  take 
me  to  see  them."  Govinda  willingly  assented,  and 
cleaned  up  his  cart,  preparatory  to  starting  with 
his  wife. 

On  the  road  they  fell  in  with  a  young  Brahman 


24  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

named  Vishnu,  a  remarkably  smart  and  attrac- 
tive young  fellow.  He  at  once  took  the  fancy 
of  Govinda's  wife,  and  an  attachment  sprang  up 
between  them  at  first  sight.    For,  as  has  been  said — 

"  Love  takes  its  origin  from  mutual  glances : 
then  the  feelings  are  roused  and  it  comes  into 
existence.  Then  follows  loss  of  sleep,  emaciation, 
distraction,  loss  of  self-control,  madness,  folly, 
death.  Wise  men  tell  us  that  these , ten  conditions 
are  brought  about  in  men  by  means  of  love." 

So  the  traveller  wrote  to  Govinda,  saying  that 
he  was  a  Br§,hman  named  Vishnu,  an  inhabitant 
of  the  neighbouring  town,  that  he  was  on  a  jour- 
ney but  afraid  to  travel  alone,  so  might  he  go 
with  them. 

The  stupid  Govinda  consented  without  any 
misgivings,  and  the  end  of  it  was  that  one  day 
when  his  back  was  turned,  his  fellow-traveller 
made  such  an  inroad  into  the  lady's  affections 
that  she  fell  a  victim  to  his  attractions,  and  told 
him  her  whole  history,  her  name,  and  her  family. 
Presently  Govinda  came  back,  and  when  he  wanted 
to  get  into  his  cart  they  called  him  a  thief  and 
declined  to  let  him  come  in,  and  after  some  dis- 
puting, Vishnu  committed  a  violent  assault  on 
him  and  beat  him  severely,  assisted  by  the  damsel's 
magical  powers. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  25 

Govinda  then  went  into  the  village  close  by, 
threw  himself  on  his  back  and  uttered  piercing 
cries  and  lamentations.  The  villagers  came  and 
asked  him  what  was  the  matter.  "  My  good 
people,"  he  exclaimed,  "  I  have  been  assaulted 
and  robbed  of  my  wife  by  a  scoundrel ;  come  and 
help  me  !  "  At  last  the  matter  came  to  the  ears 
of  the  chief  of  the  police,  and  he  ordered  Vishnu 
and  the  witch-like  damsel  to  be  brought  before 
him.  He  asked  the  pair  what  answer  they  had 
to  make  to  this  charge.  Vishnu  replied  :  "  This 
is  my  wife ;  we  were  travelling  quietly  along  the 
road  when  we  met  this  man,  who  all  of  a  sudden 
went  out  of  his  senses  and  attacked  us."  Govinda 
was  then  asked  what  he  had  to  say  ;  and  he  made 
as  nearly  as  possible  the  same  answer  as  Vishnu. 

A  soothsayer  happened  to  be  present,  but  to 
find  out  the  truth  was  quite  beyond  his  powers. 
The  question  therefore  arose  how  was  the  magis- 
trate to  come  to  a  decision.  The  soothsayer  then 
asked  them  some  further  questions,  and  said  : 
"  Would  you  tell  me  at  what  time  you  met  on  the 
road  ?  "  They  both  said,  "  After  dinner."  The 
soothsayer  then  took  the  two  Brahmans  aside, 
and  asked  them  separately,  "  What  did  the  lady 
eat  for  dinner  ?  "  Govinda  of  course  knew,  and 
was  able  to  answer  the  question  without  any  diffi- 


26  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

culty,  but  Vishnu  was  quite  at  a  loss,  and  did  not 
know  what  to  say  ;  so  he  lost  his  case  and  became 
an  object  of  ridicule  to  every  one,  while  they 
advised  Govinda  to  let  the  lady  go  to  the  infernal 
regions  and  be  rid  of  a  nuisance.  For  it  has  been 
said — 

"  A  learned  man  given  to  love  and  wine ;  a 
dancer  who  dances  badly ; 

A  devotee  who  is  stupid  and  foolish  ;  a  parasite 
who  is  old  and  worn-out  ;• 

A  BraJiman  who  is  ignorant  of  the  Scriptures ; 
a  kingdom  whose  ruler  is  a  child  j 

A  friend  who  cannot  give  advice,  and  who  is 
deceitful ;  a  wife  who,  rejoicing  in  her  youth  and 
beauty,  makes  love  to  other  men ) 

A  wise  man  keeps  clear  of  all  these." 

A  man  too  whose  faculties  are  obscured  by  love, 
and  who,  despising  common-sense  advice,  travels 
with  his  sweetheart  along  the  highway,  will  cer- 
tainly be  attacked  and  robbed  as  Govinda  was, 
who  got  into  trouble  because  he  would  not  Usten 
to  the  advice  of  his  friends. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  27 

Story  V 

There  is  a  city   called   UjjayinJ,  and  the  king's 
name  is    VikramMitya.     His    queen    was  KsLma- 
lina.     She  was  a  lady  of   very  noble  family,  and 
was  the  king's  favourite  wife.    One  day  the  king 
was  dining,  with  her  and  he  gave  her  some  roast 
fish.    She   looked   at   them   and   said :     "  Sir  I    I 
cannot  bear  to  look  at  these  men,  much  less  to 
touch  them  ] "    On    these    words    the  fish  burst 
into  a  loud  laugh,  so   loud  that  it  was  heard  by 
all  the  people  in  the  town.    The  king  could  not 
understand  this,  so  he  asked  the  astrologers,  who 
were  acquainted  with  the  language  of  birds,  what 
the  fish  meant  by  their  laughter.     None  of  them 
could  tell  him  ;  so  he  sent  for  his  private  chaplain, 
who  was  the  head  of  the  Brahmans  in  the  town,  and 
said  :    "If  you  don't  tell  me  what  those  fish  meant 
by  laughing  at  what  the  queen  said,  I  shall  send 
you  and  all  the  Brahmans  into  exile."    The  chap- 
lain, on  hearing  this,  was  a  good  deal  upset,  and 
asking  for  a  few  days'    grace,    went    home.    He 
was  quite  sure  that  he  and  the  rest  of  the  reverend 
gentlemen  would   have   to   go,  for  it  seemed  im- 
possible to  find  any  answer  to  the  question.    His 
daughter    observed    his    depressed  condition  and 
said  :    "  Father !   what's    the  matter  ?    Why  do 


28  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

you  look  so  dismal  ?  Tell  me  the  cause  of  the 
trouble.  You  ^know  people  possessed  of  wisdom 
should  not  lose  their  self-possession  even  if  diffi- 
culties arise.    For  it  has  been  said — 

"  '  The  man  who  is  not  overjoyed  hi  prosperity, 
who  is  not  cast  down  in  adversity,  who  is  stedfast 
in  difficulties,  such  a  man  as  this  has  been  bom  for 
an  everlasting  ornament  and  protection  to  the 
world.' " 

So  the  Brahman  told  his  daughter  the  whole 
story,  and  how  the  king  had  threatened  to  banish 
him ;    since — 

"  There  is  not  a  single  person  in  this  world  on 
whose  friendship  or  affection  one  can  rely :  how 
much  less  on  that  of  a  king  who  walks  in  the  way? 
of  treachery. 

"  For  it  has  been  said — 

"  '  Cleanliness  in  a  crow ;  honesty  in  a  gam- 
bler J  mildness  in  a  serpent ;  women  satisfied 
with  love  ;■  vigour  in  a  eunuch ;  truth  in  a  drunk- 
ard ;  friendship  in  a  king — ^who  ever  heard  of 
these  things  ?  ' 

"  Moreover — 

"  '  Put  not  your  trust  in  rivers,  in  savage  beasts, 
in  homed  cattle,  in  armed  men,  in  women,  in 
princes.  Kings  are  hke  soldiers  clad  in  mail, 
savage,  crooked  in  their  ways  as  serpents  that 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  29 

creep  on  you  for  evil.  A  king  slays  with  his 
smile  J  he  may  pay  honour,  but  he  is  dangerous  ; 
the  elephant  kills  with  a  touch,  the  serpent  with  a 
caress.' 

*'  I  have  served  the  king,"  continued  the  Brah- 
man, "  faithfully  all  these  years,  yet  he  has  become 
my  enemy,  and  will  send  me  and  my  fellow  Brih- 
mans  into  exile.    It  has  been  said — 

"  '  A  man  may  give  up  something  for  the  sake  of 
his  family ; 

He  may  give  up  his  family  for  the  sake  of  his 
village  5 

He  may  give  up  his  village  for  the  sake  of  his 
country ; 

But  he  will  give  up  the  whole  world  to  save  his 
life.' " 

When  the  Brahman's  daughter  heard  that  she 
said  :  "  This,  father,  is  all  very  true,  but  no  respect 
will  be  paid  to  a  servant  that  has  been  sent  adrift 
by  his  master. 

"  For  it  has  been  said — 

"  •  A  man  may  be  of  the  highest  character,  or 
very  commonplace.  If  he  devotes  himself  to  the 
service  of  the  ruler,  whichever  he  may  be,  he  will 
get  nothing  out  of  it.  The  king  will  take  the  first 
man  he  comes  across,  be  he  ignorant,  or  learned, 
honourable  or  dishonourable,  into  his  service ;  for 


30  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

kings,  women,  and  creepers  generally  lay  hold  of 
what  is  nearest  to  them.* 

"  Besides  this^ 

" '  A  man  may  be  learned,  energetic,  skilful, 
ambitious,  well  versed  in  all  his  duties,  but  he'  is 
nothing  without  the  prince's  favour.  A  man 
may  be  nobly  born,  possessed  of  abiUty,  but  if  he 
does  not  pay  court  to  the  prince  he  may  just  as 
well  spend  his  life  in  begging  or  perpetual  penance. 
One  who  falls  into  the  power  of  diseases,  crocodiles 
or  kings,  and  the  stupid  man  who  does  not  know  how 
to  get  out  of  a  difficulty,  will  never  keep  his  position 
in  Ufe.' 

"  For  it  has  been  said — 

"  '  Kings  are  as  nothing  to  those  wise  and  skilful 
persons  who  by  their  power  bring  lions,  tigers, 
serpents  and  elephants  into  subjection.  But — 
men  who  are  wise  rely  on  the  king's  favour,  and  so 
attain  to  eminence.  The  sandal  grove  can  only 
flourish  on  Mount  Malaya.' 

"All  the  insignia  of  rank, — ^parasols,  elephants, 
horses,  are  given  by  the  king  to  those  whom  he 
delights  to  honour.  You  are  the  object  of  the 
king's  affection  and  honour,  therefore,  my  dear 
father,  do  not  be  downcast.  The  chief  minister's 
duty  is  to  clear  up,  from  time  to  time,  all  the  doubts 
which    beset  the  king's    mind,    Therefore  cheer 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  31 

up !  I  will  find  out  for  you  what  the  fish  meant 
by  their  laughter." 

The  Brdhman  at  this  advice  felt  somewhat  com- 
forted, and  went  and  told  the  king  what  his  daughter 
had  said.  The  king  was  delighted,  and  immediately 
sent  for  the  damsel.  She  came  and  made  an 
elaborate  obeisance  to  his  majesty  and  said,  "  Sir  ! 
pray  do  not  treat  these  Brahmans  so  ill :  it  is  not 
their  fault.  Pray  tell  me  what  kind  of  a  laugh 
was  it  that  you  heard  from  the  fish  ?  Still,  I  am 
only  a  woman,  and  I  wonder  you  are  not  ashamed 
to  ask  me  to  clear  the  matter  up.    For — 

"  A  king  may  be  vile,  yet  he  is  even  then  not 
as  other  men,  but  bears  a  divine  form.  You, 
Vikramjlditya,  as  your  name  tells  us,  are  the  bearer 
of  divine  power.    For  it  has  been  said — 

" '  From  Indra  comes  might ;  from  Fire  comes  heat ; 
from  Yamajwrath  }  from  Kuvera  riches  ;  but  a  king 
is  formed  from  Kama  and  Vishnu  combined.' 

"  The  person  you  ought  to  blame  is  yourself, 
for  it  is  your  business  to  remove  doubts  and  diffi- 
culties. 

"  Hear,  then,  what  I  have  to  tell  you : — 

"  The  fish  I   The  fish  1  they  laid  upon  the  dish. 
And  they  laughed  when  the  queen  called  them  men  1 
Would  your  Majesty  know  what  these  verses  mean^ — 
Think  over  them  again  and  again. 


32  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

"  And  if  you  can't  find  out  the  answer  send  for 
me.  At  any  rate  you  cannot  possibly  doubt  the 
queen's  fidelity,  seeing  that  she  never  goes  out  of 
doors." 

Neither  the  king  nor  his  wise  men  had  the  slightest 
idea  what  these  verses  meant,  and  so  the  Brahman's 
clever  daughter  went  away,  and  left  them  in  their 
bewilderment. 


Story  VI 

The  king  spent  a  sleepless  night  trying  to  puzzle 
out  the  meaning  of  the  verses.  For,  as  it  has  been 
said — 

"  How  should  one  sleep  who  is  overwhelmed 
with  debt,  who  has  a  disagreeable  wife,  who  is 
surrounded  by  enemies  ?  " 

So  after  a  miserable  night  the  king  sent  again 
for  the  wise  maiden  and  said :  "  I  caimot  make 
out  what  the  fish  meant  by  their  laughter." 

"  Your  majesty  had  better  not  ask  me,"  she 
replied,  "  or  perhaps  you  may  repent  of  it  as  the 
merchant's  wife  did  when  she  was  determined  to 
find  out  where  the  cakes  came  from."    The  king 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  33 

said,  "  And  what  was  that  ?  "  She  told  him  the 
following  story : — 

"  There  is  a  town  called  Jayanti,  and  a  merchant 
whose  name  was  Sumata  lived  in  it.  His  wife 
was  Padmini.  He  was  unlucky  enough  to  lose 
all  his  money  ;•  in  consequence  his  family  would 
have  nothing  more  to  do  with  him,  for  it  is  well 
known  that  wealth  and  friendship  go  together — 

"  '  He  who  has  money  has  friends  ;  he  who  has 
money  has  relations ; 

He  who  has  money  has  wisdom :  in  fact,  he  is 
a  man  of  importance.' 

"  It  is  said  in  the  Mahabhirata — 

" '  There  are  five  conditions  in  which  a  man 
though  living  may  be  regarded  as  dead :  poverty, 
disease,  stupidity,  exile,  hopeless  slavery.'    Also — 

"  '  A  stranger,  if  he  is  a  rich  man,  is  a  rela- 
tion ;  but  a  kinsman,  if  he  be  poor,  is  an  out- 
cast.' 

"  So  this  merchant  used  to  take  straw  and  wood 
into  the  market  for  sale.  One  day  he  could  not 
find  either,  but  he  came  across  an  image  of  Ganesa, 
made  of  wood.  He  thought  to  himself,  '  This  will 
suit  my  purpose  very  well.'  For  it  has  been 
said — 

"  '  There  is  nothing  that  a  hungry  man  will  not 
do  for  bread  :  and  a  man  who  is  ruined  has  no  con- 

C 


34  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

science.  Such  people  will  be  guilty  of  any  crime ; 
what  a  respectable  man  would  not  dream  of-  doing, 
comes  natural  to  them." 

"  So  he  made  up  his  mind  to  break  the  image 
up  for  the  sake  of  the  wood,  when  Ganesa  said  to 
him  :  '  If  you  will  leave  my  image  alone  I  will  give 
you  every  day  five  cakes  made  of  sugar  and  butter  ; 
you  can  come  here  for  them,  only  you  must  not 
tell  any  one  how  you  come  by  them.  If  you 
let  the  secret  out,  I  shall  be  clear  of  my  pro- 
mise.' 

"  He  gladly  consented,  and  Ganesa  gave  him 
the  five  cakes  which  he  took  home  and  gave  to  his 
wife.  With  some  of  them  she  supplied  the  wants 
of  her  own  house,  and  gave  what  was  over  to  a 
friend.  The  friend  asked  her  one  day  where  the 
cakes  came  from ;  Padmini  could  not  answer  the 
question,  and  the  friend  said,  '  If  you  don't  tell 
me,  then  there  is  an  end  of  our  friendship.  For, 
as  the  saying  is — 

"  *  Giving  ;  receiving ;  imparting  secrets  ;  asking 
questions  ;  eating  in  company ;  these  are  the  five 
proofs  of  friendship.' 

"  Padmini  rephed  :  '  My  husband  knows,  but  he 
says  it  is  a  secret  and  will  not  tell  me ;  even  if  I 
were  to  ask  him  a  hundred  times  I  should  get 
nothing  out  of  him,'    The  friend  replied :    '  Then 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  35 

all  I  have  to  say  is,  that  you  must  make  a  very 
bad  use  of  your  youth  and  beauty,  if  you  can't 
find  this  out.' 

"  So  Padmini  asked  her  husband  again,  '  Where 
do  those  cakes  come  from  ?  '  'By  the  favour  of 
destiny,'  he  replied  ;  '  for  it  has  been  said,  "  Fate, 
if  it  is  on  your  side  will  accomplish  your  wishes. 
She  will  bring  you  what  you  want,  even  from  a 
distant  island,  from  the  ends  of  the  world,  from  the 
bottom  of  the  sea.  Once  upon  a  time  a  mouse, 
making  a  hole  for  itself,  fell  into  the  jaws  of  a  ser- 
pent. The  serpent  could  not  find  anything  to  eat 
and  was  in  the  last  stage  of  starvation,  but  re- 
freshed by  the  lucky  meal  he  went  on  his  way 
rejoicing.  So  fate  is  the  cause  of  man's  rise  or 
fall."  ' 

"  Padmini,  when  she  found  her  husband  would 
not  tell  her,  refused  to  eat.  He  was  put  in  a  diffi- 
culty and  said :  '  If  I  fell  you  what  you  want  to 
know  disaster  will  follow,  and  you  will  be  sorry 
for  it.'  Padmini,  however,  took  no  heed  of  warn- 
ings, but  continued  obstinate,  and  at  last  her 
husband  was  obliged  to  tell  her  ;  for  it  is  said, 
'  When  the  gods  want  to  ruin  a  man,  they  first 
take  away  his  senses,  so  that  he  does  not  know  evil 
from  good.' 

"  Then,  your  majesty,"  continued  the  Brahman's 


36  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

daughter,  "  Sumati  was  prevailed  on  by  his  foolish 
wife  to  tell  her  the  secret.    For — 

" '  Even  Rama  failed  to  recognize  the  golden 
deer; 

Nahusha  harnessed  the  Brahmans  to  his  chariot ; 

Arjuna  carried  off  both  cow  and  calf ; 

Yudhisthira  gambled  away  his  wife  and  his  four 
brothers. 

So  often  even  a  good  man,  in  a  crisis,  becomes  the 
victim  of  folly.' 

"  Well !  Padmini  got  the  secret  out  of  her  husband, 
and  went  and  told  her  friend,  and  the  result  was 
that  the  friend  sent  her  own  husband  to  Ganesa, 
who  gave  him  the  cakes.  Next  day  Padmini  went 
with  Sumata  to  Ganesa  for  the  daily  present,  and 
he  told  them  plainly  that  it  was  no  use  their  coming 
any  more  to  him,  for  the  bargain  had  been  broken 
and  the  cakes  had  been  given  to  some  one  else. 
So  Padmini's  husband  gave  her  a  good  scolding, 
and  they  went  home  very  sorry  for  what  they  had 
done.  In  the  same  way  your  majesty  should  not 
ask  me  to  explain  the  meaning  of  the  verses  to  you 
lest  you  repent  of  your  knowledge.  You  had 
better  make  them  out  by  yourself,  without  my 
help ;  "  and  so  saying,  she  got  up  and  went  home. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  37 

Story  VII 

After  another  sleepless  night  the  king  not  being 
able  to  find  out  the  meaning  of  the  verses,  sent 
for  the  Brahman's  daughter  again,  and  said,  "  Pray 
tell  me  the  meaning  of  the  verses  without  any- 
more delay." 

She  answered  :  "  You  must  not  importune  the 
gods  with  entreaties  or  repentance  will  follow,  as 
was  the  case  with  the  Brdhman  who  fell  in  love  with 
Sthagika.  There  is  a  town  somewhere  or  other — 
it  matters  not  where — whose  king  is  Virabhya, 
and  in  it  lived  a  Brihman  called  Kesava.  One 
day  the  thought  occurred  to  him  :  '  Why  should  I 
not  increase  the  wealth  my  father  has  left  me  ?  for  it 
has  been  said — 

"  '  The  glory  that  you  gain  from  your  own  virtues 
is  the  truest ;  next  best  is  that  which  you  gain 
from  your  father ;  but  that  which  comes  to  you 
from  a  remoter  source  is  worth  nothing.' 

"  So  he  started  with  a  view  of  getting  more 
money,  and  in  the  course  of  his  wandering  passed 
through  several  towns,  and  places  of  sacred  pilgrim- 
age. At  last  he  reached  an  out-of-the-way  place 
where  he  saw  an  ascetic  sitting  cross-legged  in 
meditation. 

"  The  Brahman  came  up  to  him,  and  made  a 


38  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

respectful  obeisance.  The  ascetic  ceased  meditating 
for  a  moment,  and  seeing  the  Brahman  said  :  '  To 
whom  in  this  world  should  liberality  be  shown  ? 
who  should  be  protected  ?  to  whom  should  be 
granted  what  seems  almost  impossible  of  acquire- 
ment ? ' 

"  The  Brahman  rose  up  from  his  humble  posture 
and  said  :  '  Sir  !  To  me.  I  am  in  the  pursuit  of 
wealth.' 

"  The  ascetic  knew  that  his  visitor  was  a  Brahman 
and  was  quite  shocked  to  hear  him  utter  such  an 
unworthy  sentiment,  for  it  has  been  said — 

" '  To  see  a  distinguished  person  begging,  in  a 
state  of  poverty,  asking  for  what  he  ought  not  to 
want,  troubles  the  mind,  though  one  is  prepared 
to  give.  For  a  good  man,  though  he  may  be  him- 
self in  trouble,  performs  his  duty  to  another.  The 
sandal  tree  may  be  broken  in  a  thousand  pieces, 
but  it  still  keeps  its  cooling  power.' 

"  The  ascetic  therefore  gave  his  visitor  a  magic 
cloak,  and  said :  '  Whenever  you  shake  this,  500 
gold  pieces  will  fall  from  it ;  but  you  must  not 
give  it  to  any  one,  or  say  where  the  money  comes 
from.' 

"  The  BrShman  thanked  the  ascetic  and  departed 
with  his  cloak.  Next  morning  he  shook  it,  and 
immediately  became  the  possessor  of  500  gold  pieces. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  39 

He  then  proceeded  on  his  travels  and  reached  a 
town  called  Ratuavati,  where  he  fell  violently  in 
love  with  a  young  lady  called  Sthagik^.  She 
could  not  make  out  where  all  the  money  came  from, 
and  her  mother  to  whom  she  confided  her  doubts 
said  :  '  Well,  what  is  this  Brahman's  business,  for 
he  seems  to  have  plenty  of  money.  How  does  he 
come  by  it  ?  '  So  she  asked  her  admirer  but  he 
would  not  tell  her.  By  dint  of  worrying,  however, 
she  got  it  out  of  him,  and  he  let  out  all  about  the 
magic  cloak.  The  consequence  was  that  she  waited 
till  he  was  asleep  and  then  stole  the  cloak,  and  as 
now  he  had  lost  all  his  money,  the  girl's  mother 
showed  him  the  door.    It  has  been  said — 

" '  There  is  not  much  cleverness  required  to 
deceive  one  who  has  confidence  in  us. 

Nor  is  much  courage  required  to  kill  one  who  is 
asleep.' 

"  The  Breihman,  when  he  woke  up  could  not  find 
his  cloak,  and  went  and  laid  a  complaint  before  the 
magistrates,  asserting  with  great  vehemence  that 
he  had  been  robbed.  The  case  was  therefore  tried, 
and  the  mother  and  daughter  were  charged  with 
the  theft.  The  mother  said :  '  This  good-for- 
nothing  fellow  made  love  to  my  daughter.  He 
has  invented  this  story  about  his  cloak — ^no  sensible 
person  could  believe  such  nonsense.    The  whole 


40  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

thing  is  a  fabrication  from  beginning  to  end. 
He  came  to  my  house,  and  my  servants  finding 
that  he  was  a  foreigner  turned  him  out  of  doors, 
and  we  sent  the  cloak  back  to  the  holy  man  who 
gave  it  him.'  This  decided  the  case  against  the 
Brahman,  and  he  lost  both  Sthagika  and  his  cloak 
all  through  letting  out  the  secret,  and  this  may  be 
your  majesty's  fate  too,  if  you  persist  in  your 
curiosity."  With  these  words  the  damsel  got  up 
and  went  home. 


Story  VIII 

The  Idng  was  still  unable  to  fathom  the  meaning 
of  the  verses,  so  the  next  day  he  sent  for  the  Brah- 
man's daughter.  She  said  :  "  Your  majesty  !  You 
should  not  be  so  importunate.  A  king  should  not 
be  so  pertinacious,  whether  the  objects  at  which 
he  aims  be  good  or  bad.  Kings  are  as  the  body, 
and  their  subjects  are  only  their  limbs.  Still  if 
I  obey  your  commands  evil  will  befall  you  as  it  befel 
the  merchant  who  lost  his  home  and  all  that  he 
had."  "  How  was  that  ?  "  said  the  king.  The 
Brahman's  daughter  answered  :  "  There  is  a  place 
called  Tripura,  and  in  it  lived  Prince  Vikrama. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  41 

A  merchant  inhabited  that  city  whose  wife's  name 
was  Subhag^.  She  was  a  person  of  very  light, 
frivolous  disposition,  and  do  what  he  would  he 
could  not  keep  her  within  bounds.  One  day  when 
she  was  wandering  about  the  town  and  getting  into 
mischief,  she  came  across  a  merchant  who  lived  in 
the  house  of  a  Yaksha.  She  "promptly  fell  in  love 
with  him,  and  as  he  very  willingly  responded  to 
her  advances,  she  made  up  her  mind  to  run  away 
with  him.  Before  going  she  called  a  confidential 
maid-servant  and  said  :  '  I  am  going  away  for  a 
bit :  directly  after  I  have  started  do  you  set  the 
house  on  fire,  and  my  husband  will  be  so  taken 
up  in  trying  to  put  it  out  that  he  will  not  find  out 
I  am  gone.  I  shall  be  back  again  before  long.' 
So  no  sooner  had  Subhag^  started,  than  her  con- 
fidant set  the  place  on  fire,  and  her  husband  who 
had  had  his  suspicions  of  the  merchant,  left  keeping 
guard  over  the  Yaksha's  house  and  came  home  to 
try  and  put  the  fire  out.  Meanwhile  her  plan 
succeeded  perfectly,  while  the  house  was  burnt 
down. 

"  Thus  the  merchant  lost  house  and  everything, 
and  that  will  be  your  majesty's  fate  if  you  are  so 
determined.  If,  however,  you  permit  I  will  tell 
you  what  you  want  to  know,  myself."  So  sa3ang 
she  departed. 


42  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

Story  IX 

Next  morning  the  king,  who  was  still  quite  unable 
to  find  the  answer,  sent  for  the  Br^man's  daughter 
and  said  :  "  You  promised  to  tell  me  the  meaning 
of  those  verses ;  for  I  cannot  make  out  what  they 
mean  myself."  The  girl  replied  :  "  If  you  cannot 
find  out  the  meaning,  then  listen  to  me.  You  have 
among  your  soothsayers  and  wise  men,  one  called 
Pushpakara.  He  is  their  head.  I  believe  he  is  a 
very  prudent  discreet  person.  Tell  me — ^why  is 
he  called  Pushpakara."  The  king  replied :  "He 
is  rightly  called  Pushpakira,  because  when  he 
smiles  it  seems  as  if  a  shower  of  blossoms  fell  from 
his  countenance.  This  was  reported  to  be  his  char- 
acteristic, and  so  messengers  were  sent  to  fetch 
him  to  prove  the  truth  of  this  report  about  him. 
When  he  came  he  neither  laughed  nor  was  there 
any  shower  of  blossoms  that  fell  from  him,  and 
for  that  reason  they  call  him '  The  bond  of  secrecy.'  " 
The  BrSJiman's  daughter  said  :  "  And  why  did  not 
Pushpakara  laugh  ?  Do  you  know  the  reason  ?  " 
"  I  haven't  the  least  idea,"  replied  the  king.  "  Then 
you  should  make  him  tell  you,"  rejoined  the  Brdh- 
man's  daughter,  "  for,  it  has  been  said — 

" '  A  king  should  gain  a  kingdom  by  righteous- 
ness ; 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  43 

In  righteousness  he  should  rule  it ; 

By  righteousness  the  king  guards  his  subjects 
from  harm  and  becomes  their  refuge.' 

"  You  have  asked  me  what  the  fish  meant  by 
laughing.  You  ask  him  the  same  question.  Per- 
haps he  will  answer  it  and  tell  you  at  the  same  time 
why  he  did  not  laugh  himself." 
■  So  the  king  sent  for  Pushpakara,  and  as  he  was 
a  wise  man,  and  of  some  importance,  he  made  him 
valuable  presents  and  asked  him  why  he  did  not 
laugh,  and  why  the  fish  did.  He  rephed  :  "  Family 
scandals  should  not  be  talked  about.  Loss  of 
money,  sorrow  of  mind,  difficulties  at  home,  fraud, 
contempt — ^these  are  things  which  no  wise  man 
ever  publishes.  Still  the  command  of  the  king 
must  be  obeyed ;  for  the  glory  of  a  king,  equal  to 
that  of  Sudra,  has  surpassing  power  on  the  earth ; 
the  very  name  of  a  righteous,  energetic  king, 
surpasses  the  sun  in  magnificence.  Therefore  I 
will  answer  your  majesty's  question.  I  found  out 
that  my  wife  was  in  love  with  some  one  else,  and 
therefore  grief  stopped  my  laughter." 

Then  the  king  put  his  own  difficulty  before  the 
wise  man,  and  the  latter  gave  no  answer  but  struck 
the  queen  full  in  the  face.  The  queen  pretended 
to  faint,  and  Pushpakslra  burst  into  a  fit  of  laughter. 
The  king  was  extremely  angry  and  looking  at  the 


44  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

magician  and  the  Brahman's  daughter,  said,  "  What 
is  there  to  laugh  at  ?  What  do  you  mean  by  this  ?  " 
"  Sir,"  replied  the  magician  making  a  profound 
bow,  "  the  queen  did  not  faint  the  other  night  when 
she  was  struck  by  the  young  men  in  whose  com- 
pany she  was.  Now  when  I  strike  her  she  faints, 
or  pretends  to  faint."  The  king  grew  still  more 
angry  and  said,  "  What  is  this  ?  do  you  know  it 
of  your  own  knowledge  ?  "  The  magician  an- 
swered, "  I  saw  it  with  my  own  eyes,  and  if  your 
majesty  is  not  convinced  I  will  prove  it  to  you." 
The  king  went  into  the  matter  and  found  out  every- 
thing. The  magician  said,  "  I  suppose  your  majesty 
sees  now  why  the  Brahman's  daughter  would  not 
tell  you  the  reason  why  the  fish  laughed."  The 
end  of  it  was  that  Pushpakdra  and  the  Brahman's 
daughter  were  sent  home  in  a  considerable  state  of 
trepidation,  while  the  queen  and  her  lovers  were 
sewn  up  in  a  sack,  and  thrown  into  the  river. 


Story  X 

In  a  town  called  R§,japura  lived  a  paterfamilias 
whose  name   was   Devasa.    He   had   two   wives, 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  45 

Sringaravati  and  Subhagd.  They  were  both  ladies 
of  a  very  amorous  disposition,  and  were  continually 
engaged  in  flirtations  with  one  admirer  or  another, 
which  they  were  mutually  careful  to  conceal  from 
their  husband.  One  day  Subhagi  was  entertaining 
a  lover  in  the  house  when  her  husband  appeared 
outside,  carrying  a  shrub  in  his  hand  which  he  had 
dug  up.  Here  was  a  pretty  state  of  things  ;  what 
was  to  be  done  !  Sring3,ravati's  readiness,  however, 
did  not  fail  her,  and  after  having  stripped  off  most 
of  Subhaga's  clothes,  turned  her  out  of  doors. 
Her  husband  came  up  and  seeing  SubhagS,  in  this 
condition  said  :  "  And  pray,  what  is  the  meaning 
of  this."  "  The  truth  is,"  answered  Sringaravati, 
"  Subhaga  saw  you  coming  in  carrying  that  shrub 
in  your  hand,  and  directly  she  saw  it  she  went 
mad,  tore  off  her  clothes,  and  ran  out  of  doors. 
Do  go  and  put  it  back  again  in  the  place  from  which 
you  took  it.  Perhaps  if  you  do  she  may  recover 
her  wits."  The  stupid  man  did  as  he  was  asked, 
and  directly  his  back  was  turned  they  let  the  lover 
out  of  the  house. 


46  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

Story  XI 

In  a  village  called  Dabhila  lived  a  rustic  whose"name 
was  Vilochana.  His  wife  was  called  RambhikS, ; 
she  was  a  frivolous,  ill-conducted  person,  but  no 
one  ventured  to  take  advantage  of  her,  because  her 
husband  was  very  stern  and  disagreeable.  One 
day  she  went  to  the  well  to  draw  some  water  and 
saw  a  very  good-looking  young  man — the  son  of  a 
Brahman — the  other  side  of  the  road.  She  greeted 
him  with  a  glance,  and  he,  being  well  versed  in  the 
language  of  the  eyes,  readily  responded.  For  it  is 
said : — 

"  Even  an  animal  knows  what  you  mean  if  you 
speak  out  j 

Elephants  and  horses  go  forward  at  the  word  of 
command ; 

But  a  man  of  wisdom  can  divine  the  unspoken 
word ; 

For  him  a  hint  is  sufficient." 

So  he  went  up  to  the  lady  and  said :  "  Well, 
what  do  you  want  with  me  ?  "  "  Follow  me," 
she  replied.  "  Come  to  our  house  and  pay  your 
respects  to  my  husband  :  I  will  manage  all  the  rest. 
Mind  you  are  very  polite  !  " 

So  saying,  she  started  off  with  the  young  Brah- 
man behind  her.    Her  husband  was  a  little  aston- 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  47 

ished  when  he  saw  her  returning  home  with  a 
strange  young  man,  but  she  came  up  to  him  and 
said,  "  Let  me  introduce  this  gentleman  to  you." 

"  And  pray,"  said  he,  "  who  may  he  be  ?  " 

"  He  is  my  brother,"  she  answered,  "  I  have 
not  seen  him  since  we  were  quite  children ;  he  has 
come  here  to  pay  me  a  visit  and  I  want  to  hear 
how  all  my  relations  are  getting  on."  The  young 
man  took  care  to  tell  exactly  the  same  story  as 
Rambhika,  and  Vilochana,  who  was  charmed  with 
his  manners  and  politeness,  begged  him  to  make 
himself  quite  at  home.  So  Rambhika  entertained 
him  to  the  best  of  her  ability.  Presently  her  hus- 
band went  off  to  bed.  Rambhika  thereupon  began 
to  redouble  her  attentions  to  her  visitor,  but  he 
remonstrated,  saying,  "  Oh  1  this  won't  do  at  all ! 
Did  you  not  say  that  I  was  your  brother  ?  If  so 
you  are  my  sister,  and  you  have  got  all  you  want." 
"  Don't  talk  such  nonsense,"  she  replied ;  '•'  has  it 
not  been  said — 

"  '  He  who  rejects  the  advances  of  a  beautiful 
damsel,  and  despises  her  sighs,  is  fit  only  for  the 
infernal  regions '  ?  " 

With  these  words  she  uttered  a  piercing  shriek, 
and  woke  up  her  husband. 

The  young  man,  terrified  at  what  was  going  to 
happen,  fell  at  her  feet,  and  promised  her  that  if 


48  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

she  would  spare  his  life  he  would  do  anything  she 
wanted.  So  she  took  some  meal  and  milk  that 
was  standing  near,  lighted  a  candle,  and  was  stirring 
them  up  when  her  husband  came  in.  She  said, 
"  Don't  disturb  yourself !  My  brother  has  a  fit  of 
the  colic,  and  I  was  so  frightened  that  I  screamed 
out,  and  I  am  making  this  mixture  to  try  and  ease 
him."  Her  fool  of  a  husband  saw  what  she  was 
doing,  and  believing  her  story  went  back  to  bed. 
The  young  Brahman,  under  pretence  of  illness, 
remained  a  whole  month  in  the  house,  greatly  to 
his  own  and  Rambhiki's  satisfaction. 


Story  XII     - 

There  is  a  village  called  Naluda,  and  in  it  lived 
a  very  rich  potter.  His  wife  Sobhika  was  a  person 
of  very  indifferent  reputation,  and  fond  of  attract- 
ing notice.  One  day  when  her  husband  was 
away  from  home  she  was  entertaining  one  of  her 
lovers,  when  the  master  of  the  house  returned 
unexpectedly.  She  was  put  into  a  considerable 
difficulty,  but  retaining  her  presence  of  mind,  she 
took  her  lover  to  a  vakula  tree,  which  grew  just 
outside  the  house,  and  said,  "  CUmb  up  at  once 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  49 

into  that  tree  and  hide  yourself ; "  which  he  did, 
leaving  his  coat  on  the  ground  at  the  foot  of  the 
tree.  Presently  her  husband  came  up,  and  seeing 
the  coat  said  :  "  Hullo  !  what  is  this  ?  "  "  Oh  1 
nothing,"  replied  his  wife ;  "  it  is  only  the  coat 
of  a  man  who  is  escaping  from  his  creditors,  and  he 
climbed  up  into  this  tree  in  such  a  hurry  to  get  out 
of  their  way  that  he  left  his  coat  behind  him." 
When  the  potter  heard  this  he  called  to  the  man 
who  was  up  the  tree  and  bid  him  come  down. 
Accordingly  the  quasi-fugitive  came  down  with 
some  misgivings,  but  they  were  quickly  dispelled, 
for  the  lady's  husband  invited  him  into  the  house 
and  entertained  him  hospitably,  while  Sobhikci 
was  delighted  at  the  success  of  her  stratagem. 


Story  XIII 

In  a  town  called  Nagapura  there  lived  a  merchant 
whose  wife  was  RajikaL.  She  was  a  good-looking 
but  a  frivolous  person,  though  her  husband  knew 
nothing  about  the  way  in  which  she  used  to  go  on. 
One  day  he  had  gone  to  dinner,  when  she  saw 
one  of  her  admirers  coming,  whom  she  had  invited 
to  come  and  see  her.    So  she  went  to  her  husband 


50  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

and  said,  "  There  is  no  butter  in  the  house  j  I 
must  go  and  buy  some."  He  gave  her  the  money 
and  off  she  started  under  the  pretence  of  bu5nng 
the  butter,  and  went  for  a  walk  with  her  lover. 
Meanwhile  her  husband  waited  for  her  return,  every 
moment  getting  more  hungry  and  more  angry.  At 
last  she  was  obliged  to  return,  so  she  covered  her 
head  and  hands,  and  the  small  coin  her  husband 
had  given  her  with  which  to  buy  the  butter,  with 
dust.  When  she  appeared  her  husband  met  her, 
and  being  by  this  time  boiling  over  with  wrath, 
he  exclaimed :  "  What  have  you  been  about  ? 
What  is  the  meaning  of  this  delay  ?  "  With  tears 
and  sobs  she  pointed  to  the  dust  with  which  she 
was  covered  and  said,  "  Pray,  don't  be  angry !  I 
dropped  the  money  in  the  dust,  and  I  have  been 
all  this  time  looking  for  it :  please  brush  the  dust 
off  me."  Her  husband,  moved  by  her  lamenta- 
tions, was  ashamed  of  his  anger,  and  brushed  oft 
the  dust  with  all  kinds  of  endearing  expressions. 


Story  XIV 

There  is  a  city  called  Padmavati:    a  merchant 
lived  there  whose  name  was  Dhanapala,  and  he 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  51 

had  a  wife — Dhana^ri — of  whom  he  was  extremely 
fond.  One  day  this  merchant  went  away  on 
business  to  a  distant  country,  taking  with  him  a 
large  sum  of  money. 

After  his  departure  his  wife  remained  indoors 
in  a  state  of  grief  :  she  neither  ate,  nor  bathed,  nor 
spoke  to  her  friends.  She  neglected  herself,  and 
took  no  trouble  about  her  personal  appearance. 

The  soft  note  of  the  cuckoo  borne  on  the  breeze 
from  Malaya  :  the  soothing  hum  of  the  bees  :  the 
scent  of  the  jasmine :  these  fall  upon  our  senses. 
If  Spring  moves  us  not  with  such  scents  and  sounds 
then  her  coming  is  only  as  the  coming  of  the  king 
of  death.  At  such  a  time  as  this  even  the  mind 
of  the  temperate  undergoes  a  change.  One  of 
Dhana^ri's  friends  said  to  her  :  "  My  love  !  don't 
waste  your  youth  and  beauty !  Listen  to  me  ! 
The  cuckoo,  the  lord  of  love,  is  speaking  to  you  in 
his  sweet  low  note.  The  Spring  covers  the  face 
of  the  earth.  Put  all  pride  away.  Women  should 
accept  the  honour  due  to  them.  Youth  passes. 
Life  is  uncertain.  Enjoy  yourself  while  you  may." 
At  these  words  she  exclaimed,  "  I  can  no  longer 
delay !  tell  me  !  what  shall  I  do  ?  "  A  lover 
came  by  and  she  followed  him.  While  she  was  in 
his  company  he  cut  off  her  lock  of  hair,  and  just  at 
that  moment  her  husband  returned.    Reflecting 


52  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

for  a  moment,  she  said  to  him,  "Wait  a  minute 
or  two  outside,  till  I  have  got  the  house  into  order  !  " 
and  running  to  the  shrine  of  her  protecting  deity, 
she  laid  the  lock  of  hair  at  the  foot  of  the  image. 
Then  she  brought  her  husband  into  the  house, 
and  with  slow,  deliberate  steps,  led  him  to  the 
shrine,  and  said  :  "  My  husband  1  offer  your  thanks- 
giving to  the  goddess  !  "  He  did  so  j  meanwhile 
he  saw  the  lock  of  hair  and  said  to  his  wife,  "  What 
is  this  ?  "  "  This,"  she  repUed,  "  is  the  fulfilment 
of  my  vow.  I  promised  the  goddess  that  I  would 
offer  her  a  lock  of  my  hair,  if  she  would  bring  you 
back  safe  and  sound.  You  have  returned,  and 
I  have  kept  my  promise."  On  this  her  stupid 
husband  worshipped  the  goddess  with  great  venera- 
tion, and  lavished  more  affection  than  ever  on  his 
wife. 


Story  XV 

There  is  a  city  called  Salipura  and  in  it  dwelt  a 
merchant  who  had  a  son  named  Gunakara.  The 
son's  wife's  name  was  Sridevya  and  she  had  a 
hankering    after    a   man    called    Subuddhi.    Her 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  53 

flirtations  were  the  talk  of  the  whole  place,  but  her 
husband  was  so  devoted  to  her  that  he  would  not 
listen  to  a  word  against  her.  For  it  has  been 
said — 

"  Friends  can  see  only  virtues  :  enemies  only 
vices." 

One  day  her  father-in-law  found  her  asleep  with 
one  of  her  admirers,  and  without  waking  her  he 
took  off  one  of  her  anklets.  Soon  after  this  she 
woke  up  and  found  the  anklet  was  gone,  so  she  said 
nothing  about  it,  but  went  straight  off  and  joined 
her  husband  who  was  in  bed.  In  the  middle  of 
the  night  she  woke  him  up  and  said :  "  Your  father, 
thinking  I  was  asleep,  came  in  and  stole  one  of  the 
anklets  off  my  feet.  This  is  most  insulting  !  who 
ever  heard  of  a  father-in-law  stealing  his  daughter- 
in-law's  anklets  ?  "  So  Gunakara  got  up  in  a 
great  rage  and  fell  foul  of  his  father  for  having 
stolen  his  wife's  anklet.  "  Well,"  replied  the 
father,  "  the  truth  is,  that  I  found  your  wife  asleep 
with  some  one  else,  and  I  took  the  anklet  off  her 
foot."  Sridevya  answered,  "This  is  absolutely 
untrue,  for  at  this  particular  time  I  was  with  my 
husband.  I  am  perfectly  willing  to  prove  the 
truth  of  what  I  say  by  the  ordeal."  Now  this 
was  the  ordeal.  In  a  village  a  short  distance  off, 
lived  a  famous  Yaksha :    suspected  persons  were 


54  THE  ENCHANTED   PARROT 

taken  before  the  Yaksha,  who  seized  hold  of  them.and 
if  they  were  innocent  of  the  charge  brought  against 
them  they  escaped  out  of  his  clutches  safe  and  sound. 
So  the  good-for-nothing  woman  being  run  to  earth 
by  her  father-in-law,  went  to  her  lover  and  said, 
"  To-morrow  morning  I  have  to  go  through  the 
ordeal  before  the  Yaksha.  Mind  you  are  there, 
and  just  before  I  go  up  to  the  Yaksha,  seize  me 
round  the  neck."  He  didn't  quite  see  the  point 
of  it,  but  agreed  to  do  as  he  was  told.  Next  day 
Sridevya,  accompanied  by  a  great  crowd  of  people, 
having  bathed  took  some  fresh  flowers,  and  went 
before  the  Yaksha.  As  she  was  coming  up  to  him 
her  lover  came  forward  and  according  to  the  arrange- 
ment seized  her  round  the  neck  with  both  arms. 
She  uttered  a  loud  shriek  and  rushed  off  to  go 
through  some  rites  of  purification,  while  her  assailant 
was  driven  off  by  the  bystanders.  After  com- 
pleting her  purification  she  came  back,  and  offering 
the  flowers  respectfully  to  the  Yaksha  said :  "  Sir ! 
your  reverence  !  With  the  exception  of  my  hus- 
band, and  that  man  who  just  now  seized  me  by  the 
neck,  no  man  has  ever  come  near  me.  If  I  do 
not  speak  the  truth  may  I  suffer  the  just  penalty." 
So  sa5dng  she  submitted  to  the  ordeal  and  escaped 
without  injury.  The  Yaksha,  who  saw  through 
the   whole   business,    said   nothing,    but   silently 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  55 

applauded  her  cleverness,  and  she  returned  home 
with  her  reputation  fully  established. 


Story  XVI 

There  is  a  certain  town  in  which  lived  a 
merchant  who  had  a  wife  called  MugdhikS..  She 
was  a  flighty  and  self-willed  kind  of  person.  Her 
husband  was  very  much  dissatisfied  with  her 
behaviour,  and  called  together  a  family  council 
complaining  that  she  was  always  going  out  at 
night.  They  charged  her  with  this  and  she  retorted 
that  they  had  made  a  great  mistake,  for  it  was  her 
husband  who  was  always  out  at  night.  So  after 
some  discussion  they  came  to  the  following  con- 
clusion :  "  Whichever  of  you,"  they  said,  "  after 
this  is  first  out  at  night  is  to  be  considered  the 
guilty  party."  Mugdhika,  in  spite  of  this  decision, 
took  the  first  opportunity  of  going  out,  and  her 
husband  finding  that  she  was  not  in  the  house 
locked  the  door  and  went  to  bed.  Presently  she 
came  home  and  knocked,  but  her  husband  refused 
to  let  her  in,  so  she  took  a  large  stone  and  threw 
it  with  a  splash  into  the  tank,  and  then  went  and 
waited  behind  the  door.    Her  husband  heard  the 


56  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

splash,  and  thinking  she  had  tumbled  into  the 
tank  went  out  to  see  what  had  happened.  Mug- 
dhika  immediately  slipped  into  the  house  and 
bolted  the  door.  Her  husband  then  finding  himself 
locked  out,  began  to  expostulate  loudly,  exclaiming, 
"  My  dear  wife  !  Pray  let  me  in  ! "  He  made 
such  a  noise  that  she  was  afraid  he  would  bring 
the  police  to  the  house,  so  she  opened  the  door 
and  let  him  in,  at  .the  same  time  saying :  "  In 
future,  my  dear,  let  us  cease  to  find  fault  with  one 
another." 


Story  XVH 

In  a  city  called  Visal^  lived  a  devout  Brdhman, 
and  he  had  a  son  to  whom  he  taught  all  the  wisdom 
of  the  sacred  scriptures.  Now  one  day  the  son, 
whose  name  was  Gunadhya,(took  leave  of  his  parents 
and  went  into  a  distant  country,  where  his  wisdom 
gained  him  a  great  reputation,  and  where  he  medi- 
tated long  and  earnestly,  how  he  might  gain  some 
profit  from  his  learning.  At  last  he  bought  an  ox, 
and  with  it  he  started  on  a  journey.  As  he  was 
leading  it  along  the  road,  he  caught  sight  of  a  very 
attractive  damsel,  so  finding  a  person  who  was 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  57 

willing  to  let  him  tie  up  the  ox  in  his  stable,  he 
asked  her  to  recommend  him  a  lodging.  So 
Gunadhya  having  settled  himself  and  the  ox 
started  off  to  visit  the  object  of  his  affections. 
He  found  her  at  home,  and  having  spent  the 
night  at  her  house  got  up  very  early  the  next 
morning  and  carried  off  her  anklet.  Meanwhile 
a  servant  came  by  and  seeing  the  ox  tied  up 
asked  to  whom  it  belonged.  The  woman  who 
had  lent  Gunadhya  the  stable,  knowing  where 
the  owner  was  gone  maintained  a  discreet  silence : 
for,  it  has  been  said — 

"  Loss  of  money ;  sorrow  of  mind  ;  domestic 
scandals ;  fraud ;  contempt ;  these  are  things 
that  a  wise  man  never  talks  about." 

In  the  course  of  the  day,  Gunadhya,  who  had 
been  gambling,  and  who  had  had  exceedingly  bad 
luck,  met  the  damsel  whose  anklet  he  had  stolen,  as 
he  was  coming  out  of  the  gambling-house.  She 
immediately  seized  hold  of  him,  and  being  in  her 
clutches,  he  shouted  out,  "Help — police — I  am 
caught  by  a  disreputable  woman,"  and  he  made 
such  a  noise  that  she  was  forced  to  let  him  go. 
He  then  walked  behind  her  calling  her  by  all  sorts 
of  uncomplimentary  epithets,  until  she  was  glad  to 
take  him  down  a  back  street,  and  give  him  her 
bracelet  to  keep  him  quiet.    So — 


58  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

"  He  who  can  put  up  with  disasters,  or  take  no 
heed  of  them,  and  who  never  loses  his  head  in  difficul- 
ties,— such  a  man  is  worthy  of  all  commendation." 


Story  XIX 

In  a  city  called  Karala  lived  a  certain  SodhEika, 
a  man  of  great  importance  in  the  town.  His  wife 
Santika  was  very  much  devoted  to  him.  There 
was  also  a  merchant  in  the  same  town  whose  wife 
Svachchhanda  was  frivolous  and  ill-conducted.  She 
was  always  trying  to  attract  Sodhaka's  atten- 
tion, but  he  never  took  the  slightest  notice  of  her. 
One  day  he  went  to  pay  his  respects  to  a  holy 
man  called  Manoratha  and  Svachchhandci  followed 
him  into  the  house. 

It  has  been  well  said — 

"  A  man  has  power  over  himself  only  so  long 
as  he  continues  in  the  path  of  virtue ;  so  long 
as  he  keeps  his  senses  in  subjection ;  so  long 
as  he  behaves  discreetly.  So  long,  the  glances 
of  lovely  damsels  shot  forth  from  the  bows 
of  their  arching  eyebrows,  may  fall  on  him,  but 
they  will  not  destroy  his  peace  of  mind." 

The   police   seeing   Svachchhanda's  manoeuvres 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  59 

surrounded  Manoratha's  house  and  Santika  hearing 
of  it  went  to  the  house  with  sound  of  music,  and 
said  to  the  guards,  "  I  have  made  a  vow  after  I 
have  seen  the  holy  man,  to  return  into  a  soUtary 
place.  Will  you  therefore  accept  this  trifle  of  money 
and  let  me  go  into  the  house  ?  "  They  gladly  allowed 
her  to  enter  ;■  so  she  went  and  changed  clothes 
with  SvachchhandS.,  remaining  inside  herself  while 
Svachchhandd  went  away  disguised  in  her  clothes. 
Next  morning  the  police  saw  Sodhaka  leaving  the 
house  accompanied  by  his  own  wife.  They  did 
not  know  what  to  make  of  it,  but  saw  plainly  that 
they  had  been  done  in  some  way  or  other. 


Story  XX 

On  the  banks  of  the  Sibhramati  is  a  town  called 
Sankhapura,  and  in  it  lived  a  certain  Sura,  a  rich 
farmer.  His  wife's  name  was  Kelika.  She  was  a 
flighty,  ill-conducted  person,  and  violently  attached 
to  a  Brahman  who  lived  on  the  other  side  of  the 
river.  So  being  over  head  and  ears  in  love  with 
this  BrzLhman,  she  used  to  cross  the  river  with  a 
friend  at  night,  and  pay  him  sundry  visits.  Her 
husband  eventually  discovered  that  his  wife  was 


6o  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

alwa}^  going  over  to  the  other  side  of  the  river, 
and  followed  her  one  night  to  try  and  find  out 
what  she  was  about.  She  was  returning  from  one 
of  these  expeditions  and  caught  sight  of  him;  so 
she  filled  a  pot  with  water,  and  went  with  her  friend 
into  a  small  shrine  which  stood  on  the  river  bank, 
in  which  was  an  image  of  one  of  the  deities.  After 
crowning  the  image  with  flowers,  and  washing  it, 
she  tipped  a  wink  to  her  friend,  and  said, "  Divine 
lady !  some  time  ago  you  told  me  that  if  I  did 
not  wash  and  adorn  your  image,  my  husband  would 
die  within  a  few  days.  Now  I  have  acted  in  obe- 
dience to  your  command,  I  pray  you  therefore 
that  his  life  may  be  prolonged ! ' '  Her  friend  uttered 
a  fervent  "  amen "  to  this  petition,  and  the 
lady's  husband  who  had  followed  her  close  by 
heard  all  this.  So  he  went  away,  not  knowing 
that  he  had  been  seen,  delighted  with  his  wife's 
fidelity  and  affection. 


Story  XXII 

In  a  certain  village  there  lived  a  farmer  called 
SodMka.  His  wife's  name  was  Mddhaka.  One 
day  she  was  going  along  the  road  carrying  some 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  6i 

meal,  when  she  met  a  man  called  Suripila,  and 
she  put  the  meal  down  by  the  roadside  and  went 
and  sat  down  and  had  a  talk  with  him.  Mean- 
while a  rascal  called  Miladeva  came  by,  and  he 
mixed  the  meal  up  into  the  shape  of  a  camel. 
When  Madhaka  came  back  and  saw  what  had 
been  done  she  picked  up  the  camel  very  carefully, 
so  as  not  to  break  it  and  went  home.  On  reaching 
home  her  husband  met  her,  and  seeing  the  camel 
made  out  of  meal  exclaimed  :  "  What  in  the  world 
is  this  ?  "  His  wife  replied,  "  Well !  you  must 
know  that  a  few  nights  ago  I  dreamt  that  you  had 
been  eaten  by  a  camel.  Now  set  to  work  and  eat 
the  camel  up  that  the  camel  may  not  eat  you ! " 
When  he  heard  this  he  was  delighted  at  his  wife's 
thoughtful  affection  and  ate  up  the  camel  without 
any  further  delay. 


Story  XXHI 

Next  day  Prabhivati's  friends  addressed  her  and 
said :  "  Go  where  the  sandalwood  ointment  is 
rubbed  off  by  the  sweat  which  falls  :  Go  !  where 
the  sounds  of  love  are  manifold :  where  the  tinkle 


62  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

of  the  anklets  is  silent :  where  everything  incites 
to  love.  Go !  where  the  universal  law  of  love 
prevails.    For — 

"  '  Health  ;   pleasure  ;    peace ;  power ;   lordship  ; 

These  are  as  nothing  without  love.' 

"  It  has  been  said — 

" '  The  women  with  long  half-closing  eyes  :  looking 
at  their  own  forms  resplendent  with  beauty  in  the 
curving  mirrors,  wait  with  longing  for  the  lover's 
approach.  It  is  through  their  attractiveness  that 
women  gain  the  fruit  of  love.'  " 

The  parrot  answered : 

"  Men  are  easily  won  over :  they  always  speak 
fair :  It  is  the  speaker  of  unpleasant  though 
wholesome  truths  who  cannot  find  a  listener.  But 
why  say  more  ?  You  and  your  friends  are  deter- 
mined on  evil  deeds." 

The  parrot  continued  : — 

There  is  a  town  called  Padmavati :  where  the  rays 
of  the  sun  shine  on  streets  paved  with  jewels,  as 
though  the  glow  of  the  gems  on  the  hood  of  the 
serpent  king  had  come  down  to  earth. 

The  king's  name  was  Sudarlana. 

What  praise  can  be  too  great  for  such  a  king  as 
this,  devoted  to  the  guardianship  of  his  subjects, 
the  prince  of  a  city  where  the  sun  looks  down  upon 
no  evil? 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  63 

His  wife  was  called  Sringdrasundart,  and  in  her 
companionship  he  spent  the  hot  season. 

When  the  sun  scorches  :  when  the  long  days 
are  unbearable  :  when  the  wind  is  the  breath  of 
a  furnace  :  when  everything  is  dried  up  or  perishes 
through  the  heat.  Sandalwood  ointment :  light 
clothing  :  refreshing  drink  :  these  things  bringing 
coolness  and  delight  conquer  the  heat.  The  heat 
is  but  a  slave  to  those  who  at  midday  anoint  them- 
selves with  the  sandal,  who  bathe  at  evening, 
whose  nights  are  tempered  by  the  wind  of  the  fans. 

There  was  a  merchant  in  the  town  called  Chandana, 
and  he  and  his  wife  Prabhavati,  passed  the  hot 
season  on  the  roof  of  their  house. 

Even  the  sun  supported  in  the  heaven  by  his 
rays,  descends  into  the  ocean  when  his  day  is  done. 
For  it  has  been  said — 

"  When  fate  is  hostile  it  is  useless  to  try  and 
reach  greatness ! " 

Even  the  thousand  rays  cannot  support  the 
sun  when  his  time  for  setting  is  come.  Then  the 
sun,  sunk  low  in  the  heaven,  his  brilliancy  departed, 
shines  like  a  piece  of  coral :  and  presently  the  wide- 
eyed  moon  comes  forward  and  takes  up  his  place, 
rising  over  the  Eastern  mountain,  accompanied 
by  the  myriads  of  stars,  to  kill  the  darkness.  The 
moon  standing  with  her  head  above  the  Eastern 


64  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

mountain  in  the  beginning  of  night,  shines  forth — 
a  torch  to  the  world  overwhelmed  by  the  gloom. 
The  moon  rising  from  behind  the  Eastern  mountain 
shines  resplendent  as  she  lies  in  the  lap  of  her 
beloved  night,  or  as  she  stands  gleaming  on  Krishna's 
head. 

Such  were  the  days  and  nights  when  Chandana 
and  his  wife  passed  their  time  together.  They  had 
a  son  whose  name  was  Rama,  and  to  him  his  father 
taught  the  mysteries  of  the  divine  wisdom. 

His  mother  prayed  to  Chandra  and  said :  "  I 
have  but  one  only  son  :  I  am  therefore  exceedingly 
pained  with  anxiety."  Chandra  replied :  "  It  is 
best  for  you,  that  you  should  have  but  one  son : 
for  a  son  that  is  clever,  gentle,  self-den5dng, 
discreet,  the  abode  of  the  arts,  the  dwelling-place 
of  virtue  :  one  only  son  such  as  this  is  all  sufficient. 
Besides :  what  is  the  good  of  more  sons :  they 
may  produce  grief  and  care.  It  is  better  to  be 
satisfied  with  one  whose  nature,  whose  disposition 
is  noble."  But  Prabhdvatt  was  not  satisfied ;  so 
she  took  a  woman  called  DhiirtamELyEl  into  her 
confidence,  and  said  :  "  If  you  will  procure  a  son 
for  me,  able  to  resist  all  the  deceitful  arts  of  women, 
I  will  give  you  lOO  pieces  of  gold."  "  I  will  give 
you  a  son,"  replied  DhMamayi,  "  and  if  he  falls 
a  victim  to  female  seduction,  I  will  forfeit  to  you 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  65 

twice  as  many  pieces  of  money."  So  the  bargain 
was  concluded  and  signed  and  the  son  was  placed 
in  the  merchant's  house,  where  he  became  the 
object  of  all  the  wiles  that  women  could  devise. 

The  arts  of  women  are  these  :  deceitful  speech  ; 
craft ;  oaths ;  pretended  emotions ;  pretended 
weeping  ;  pretended  laughter  5  meaningless  expres- 
sions of  pleasure  and  pain  ;  asking  questions  with  a 
deferential  air ;  indifference ;  equanimity,  in  pros- 
perity, or  adversity  ;  making  no  difference  between 
good  and  evil ;  sidelong  glances  directed  towards 
lovers  :  that  is  the  list  of  the  accomplishments 
practised  by  the  ladies  of  the  town. 

So  the  son  handed  over  according  to  the  agreement 
by  Dhfirtamayd,  was  sent  by  his  father  to  the 
island  of  Suvarna  to  acquire  wealth.  In  that 
island  lived  a  lady  called  Kalavati,  and  with  her 
he  spent  a  whole  year.  One  day  he  said  to  Kalel- 
vati :  "  Pray  tell  me  !  my  youngest  sister  has 
often  said,  that  although  she  was  skilled  in  all  the 
arts  of  attracting  men,  she  never  could  succeed 
in  getting  anything  out  of  her  admirers.  How  is  this 
to  be  accomplished  ?  "  Kalavati  repeated  this  to 
her  mother  :  "  My  dear  !  "  replied  the  old  lady, 
"  it  is  quite  clear  that  this  admirer  of  yours  is  well 
up  in  the  ways  of  women  :  you  can't  catch  him 
like  this ;  perhaps  flattery  might  succeed.    When 


66  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

he  is  thinking  of  going  back  home,  you  say  that 
yon  want  to  go  with  him,  and  that  if  he  leaves 
you,  you  will  drown  yourself — and  so  on.  I  daresay 
he  would  give  you  anything  you  liked  to  ask  for." 
Kalivati  answered,  "  My  dear  mother  !  don't  put 
it  in  that  way  :  I  care  nothing  for  his  money  without 
him,  and  it  has  been  said — 

" '  Do  not  set  your  heart  on  riches  gained  by 
wickedness,  or  from  an  enemy  whom  you  have 
humiUafed.'  " 

Her  mother  answered  :  "  Not  at  all,  my  daughter ; 
riches  are  the  cause  of  death  or  life.  It  has  been 
said — 

"  '  A  man  who  acts  with  energy  is  sure  to  pros- 
per; for  energy  in  all  matters  is  the  road  to  for- 
tune. 

Those  who  have  not  revealed  secrets  j  who  have 
done  no  evil ;  who  have  not  slain  without  cause ; 
they  attain  glory. 

Fate  is  the  cause  of  justice  and  injustice :  the 
cause  of  honour  and  of  dishonour.  Fate  makes  a 
man  both  a  giver  and  an  asker.' 

"  You  do  as  I  have  told  you,"  continued  her 
mother,  "  I  will  manage  all  the  rest."  So  she  listened 
to  the  advice  her  mother  had  given,  and  the  end 
of  it  was,  that  the  merchant's  son  gave  her  all  his 
money,  and  aiter  she  had  got  hold  gf  severc^l  million? 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  67 

which  had  belonged  to  him,  he  was  turned  out  of 
doors  and  sent  adrift. 

So  Kalavatl's  admirer  returned  home  having 
lost  both  money  and  credit.  His  father,  seeing 
him  in  this  condition,  was  much  distressed,  and 
asked  how  it  had  all  come  about.  He  did  not  like 
to  tell  him,  but  told  his  spiritual  father,  who  said  : 
"  My  son,  do  not  be  cast  down  !  Good  luck  and 
bad  luck  are  equally  the  lot  of  man.  Why  should 
wise  men  think  so  much  of  money  ?  If  it  goes, 
grieve  not  after  it :  if  it  comes  back,  care  not  for 
it." 

When  his  father  heard  all  that  had  happened 
he  went  to  Dhiirtamaya  and  said  :  "I  have  come 
to  tell  you  that  a  great  misfortune  has  happened. 
My  son  has  fallen  a  victim  to  the  treachery  of  a 
woman."  "  Who  has  not  been  ruined  by  women  ?  " 
replied  Dhurtam^yS, :  "for  it  has  been  said  :  '  A 
man  who  gains  wealth  becomes  proud :  he  who 
falls  into  calamities  loses  his  senses :  whose  will  is 
not  shaken  by  women  ?  Who  can  be  the  friend  of 
a  king  ?  Who  has  not  come  info  the  power  of 
death  ?  Who  does  not  respect  a  rich  man  ?  Who 
that  falls  into  the  net  of  the  evil  escapes  without 
loss  ?  '  Therefore  if  you  will  take  a  passage  for 
me  in  a  ship,  I  will  go  back  with  your  son.  It  has 
been  said  :  '  Damage  may  be  repaid  with  damage  : 


68  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

injury  with  injury :  if  you  pull  out  my  feathers, 
I  will  pull  out  your  hair.' 

"  I  agreed  that  if  your  son  were  cheated  by  a 
woman  I  would  be  responsible.  For :  '  Though 
the  earth,  supported  by  the  serpent  king,  the 
mighty  mountain,  the  tortoise,  the  elephant,  may 
move,  that  which  has  been  determined  by  the  Avise 
and  thoughtful  is  never  moved,  even  in  the  course 
of  ages.'  " 

So  DhArtam^ya  and  Chandana's  son  went  back 
to  Suvama.  All  the  inhabitants  including  Kalavati 
welcomed  him,  but  he  did  not  recover  his  money. 
The  question  was  therefore — What  could  Dhurta- 
maya  do  ?  Well !  as  the  money  was  not  forth- 
coming, she  put  on  the  disguise  of  a  Chandalsl, 
and  went  about  trying  to  find  an  opportunity  of 
getting  it  back.  In  the  course  of  her  wanderings 
she  came  across  Chandana's  son  in  the  company 
of  Kalavati.  He  saw  her  at  the  same  time,  and 
rushed  to  meet  her,  a  line  of  action  which  had  been 
already  agreed  upon  between  them.  Kalavati 
followed  him,  and  exclaimed,  "  Pray  who  is  this  ?  " 
He  replied :  "  This  is  my  mother ;  I  have  not 
seen  her  since  I  lost  all  my  money  !  "  Dh^tamiya 
seizing  hold  of  his  hand  greeted  him  affectionately, 
and  said :  "  My  son  !  you  went  to  this  lady's 
house !    You  fell  a  victim  to  her  wiles  but  after  a 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  69 

time  you  escaped.  You  know  all  the  money  you 
took  away  belonged  to  me." 

This  she  kept  on  asserting  with  oaths  and  impre- 
cations, until  Kaiavati  and  her  mother  took  the 
woman  disguised  as  a  Chandali  into  the  house  and 
said  :  "  Madam  !  tell  us  :  Where  do  you  come 
from  ?  What  is  your  name  ?  In  short  who  are 
you  ?  "  "  I,"  she  replied,  "  am  one  of  SudarSana's 
minstrels,  the  king  of  Padmavati :  this  son  of  mine 
took  aWay  all  my  money,  and  you  stole  it  from 
him."  Kalavati  and  her  mother  were  thoroughly 
frightened  and  said  :  "  Here  is  the  money  !  pray 
take  it ! "  "  No,"  answered  Dhurtamaya,  not 
imless  the  king  of  this  country  gives  me  permission." 

Then  they  fell  down  at  her  feet  and  said  :  "  We 
pray  you  accept  it  and  have  mercy  on  us  !  "  So 
she  took  it,  and  having  been  treated  with  the 
greatest  respect  by  Kalavati  and  her  mother,  went 
back  with  Rama  rejoicing  to  their  own  country. 


Story  XXV 

There  is  a  town  called  Chandrapura,  and  in  it 
lived  a  Buddhist  mendicant.  His  name  was 
Siddhasena,  and  he  had  a  high  reputation  among 


70  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

the  townspeople.  One  day  a  white-robed  ascetic 
arrived  there,  a  man  of  the  most  exalted  virtue. 
He  became  a  great  attraction  to  every  one,  so  much 
so  that  the  Buddhist  devotee  was  quite  thrown 
into  the  shade.  The  Buddhist  was  very  much  put 
out  at  all  the  veneration  being  transferred  from 
himself  to  the  newcomer,  and  so  he  dispatched  a 
damsel  of  fascinating  exterior  to  try  and  lure  away 
his  rival  from  the  strict  path  of  virtue.  The  pro- 
fessor of  exalted  virtue  was  a  somewhat  impression- 
able person,  and  the  damsel  succeeded  perfectly; 
the  result  was  that  there  was  a  good  deal  of  talk  in 
the  town.  The  Buddhist  took  care  to  make  the 
scandal  as  public  as  possible,  and  the  townspeople 
said  that  the  Buddhist  was  evidently  a  very  religious 
person,  but  the  virtuous  ascetic,  in  spite  of  his  white 
robes,  was  no  better  than  he  should  be.  The  end 
of  it  was  that  the  ascetic  lighted  a  fire  and  burnt 
his  white  clothes,  after  which  he  bid  farewell  to 
the  young  lady  who  had  been  the  cause  of  all  the 
trouble,  and  started  off  very  early  the  next  morning 
as  a  half-naked  mendicant.  So  the  gossip  came  to 
an  end,  and  the  people  said.  After  all,  our  Buddhist 
devotee  is  not  equal  to  the  holy  man  who  wore  the 
white  garments. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  71 

Story  XXVI 

In  a  village  called  Jalaudha  lived  a  certain  Rdjaputra, 
a  very  brave  man.  His  wife's  name  was  Ratnidevl. 
A  man  called  Devasa  and  his  son  Dhavala  were 
inhabitants  of  the  same  village.  Both  of  these 
two  were  in  love  with  Ratneldev!,  but  they  kept  it 
a  secret  from  each  other.  One  day  the  father  and 
the  son  were  both  in  the  Rajaputra's  house  when 
unexpectedly  the  master  of  the  house  returned. 
Ratnadevi  was  in  a  difficulty,  but  she  made  signs 
to  the  son,  who  saw  what  had  happened,  and 
went  out  at  once  in  a  great  state  of  trepidation. 
On  the  doorstep  he  ran  up  against  the  returning 
Rajaputra,  who  exclaimed  :  "  Hullo  !  what  is  the 
meaning  of  this  ?  "  She  replied : "  This  unfortunate 
person  has  been  ill-treated  by  his  father  and  came 
here  to  ask  you  for  protection.  His  father  followed 
him  here,  and  I  did  not  dare  to  ask  the  son  in. 
Still  as  it  has  been  said  :  '  A  true  Kshatrya  is  one 
who  is  able  to  protect  the  good,  and  whose  bow  is 
all  powerful  when  an  emergency  arises.  But  he 
who  has  both  the  power  and  the  means,  and  who 
does  nothing,  is  as  a  man  who  promises  without 
performing.' " 

The  Rjljaputra  exclaimed  with  indignation,  "Go 
and  call  the  son  in  !  "  and  he  very  willingly  accepted 
the  invitation. 


72  THE  ENCHANTED   PARROT 

Story  XXVIII 

There  is  a  large  village  called  Kukhadd  3  in  it 
dwelt  a  certain  Jarasa,  who  was  a  great  fool.  His 
wife's  name  was  DeviM :  she  was  a  flighty,  ill- 
conducted  person,  and  had  a  lover — a  Brahman — 
whom  she  used  to  meet  under  a  Vibhitaka  tree,  some 
way  from  the  village.  These  meetings  were  a  great 
subject  of  gossip  in  the  place,  and  in  course  of  time 
her  husband  heard  of  them.  So  he  made  up  his 
mind  to  see  into  the  matter  himself  and  went  and 
climbed  into  the  tree.  What  he  saw  from  his 
hiding-place  fully  justified  all  the  gossip  and  he 
called  out  to  his  wife :  "  You  good-for-nothing 
hussy  1  You  have  been  up  to  this  game  for  some 
time  past."  She  was  put  into  somewhat  of  a 
difficulty  and  said :  "I  don't  know  what  you 
mean  !  "  "I  will  let  you  know  what  I  mean,"  he 
answered,  "  if  you  will  just  wait  till  I  come  down." 
So  she  promised  to  wait  till  he  came  down  from  the 
tree,  and  meanwhile  sent  her  lover  away.  At  last 
her  husband  reached  the  ground  :  "  It  is  of  no  use 
your  making  excuses,"  he  said,  "  you  have  been 
caught  in  flagranti  delicto."  "  My  dear  hus- 
band !  "  she  replied,  "  You  must  know  that  this 
tree  has  very  peculiar  properties :  any  one  who 
climbs  up  into  it  can  see  at  once  whether  their 
husband  or  wife  has  attractions  away  from  home." 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  73 

Her  husband  replied,  "  Well,  you  climb  up  andsee 
if  it  is  so."  Which  she  did,  and  cried  out :  "  You 
good-for-nothing  wretch  !  you  have  been  running 
after  other  women  for  days  and  days."  As  this 
was  perfectly  true  the  fool  had  nothing  to  say,  and 
so  he  made  it  up  with  his  wife  and  they  went  home 
together. 


Story   XXIX   ^^ 

In  a  village  called  Sikuli,  there  was  a  very  rich 
merchant.  He  had  a  wife  whose  name  was  Sundarl, 
and  she  was  always  carrjdng  on  flirtations  with  a 
certain  Mohana.  One  day  she  was  entertaining 
her  lover  in  the  house  when  she  saw  her  husband 
approaching.  This  was  a  pretty  fix,  so  getting 
together  all  her  ingenuity  she  made  her  lover — 
who  had  not  a  rag  on,  get  into  a  hammock,  and 
rushed  out  herself  to  meet  her  husband.  Standing 
at  a  distance  she  cried  out :  "Be  quick  !  go  and 
call  the  sorcerers  to  come  here  !  there  is  a  naked 
ghost  in  the  house  and  it  has  got  into  the  hammock." 
So  her  husband,  who  was  a  great  blockhead,  started 
off  at  full  speed  to  fetch  the  magicians  to  lay  the 
ghost,  and  she  ran  back  into  the  house  and  turned 


74  THE   ENCHANTED  PARROT 

her  lover  out.  When  her  husband  came  back,  she 
met  him  with  a  firebrand  in  her  hand  and  said  : 
"  My  dear  !  it  is  all  right !  I  have  killed  the  ghost 
with  this  firebrand." 


Story   XXX 

Somewhere  or  other — it  matters  not  where,  there 
is  a  cemetery  called  BhAtavana,  and  in  it  dwelt  two 
demons  whose  names  were  Kurala,  and  Uttala. 
They  each  had  a  wife  and  a  dispute  arose  between 
them,  whose  wife  was  the  best-looking.  They  were 
out  for  a  walk  with  their  wives  one  day,  when  they 
came  across  a  certain  Mfiladeva.  They  promptly 
seized  him  by  the  arms,  and  said  that  unless  he 
told  them  at  once  which  of  the  two  ladies  was  the 
more  beautiful,  they  would  certainly  kill  him.  Now 
the  two  ladies  in  question  were  both  of  them  very 
old  and  absolutely  hideous  :  so  it  was  qmfe  evident 
that  if  Miiladeva  told  the  truth  he  could  not  possibly 
escape  destruction.  So  he  reflected  a  minute,  and 
then  he  said :  "He  who  has  a  charming  wife,  to 
him  she  is  the  most  beautiful  thing  in  the  world." 
At  these  words  the  two  demons  were  delighted  and 
immediately  let  the  tactful  Miiladeva  go  free. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  75 

Story   XXXI 

In  a  forest  called  Madhara  lived  a  lion  whose  name 
was  Pingala.  He  was  the  terror  of  all  the  beasts 
in  the  forest,  for  he  used  to  wander  about  and  kill 
one  after  another.  So  they  met  together  and  made 
a  bargain  with  him,  that  if  he  would  leave  them 
alone,  they  would  supply  him  every  day  with  one 
beast  for  his  dinner. 

At  last  a  hare's  turn  came  to  satisfy  the  lion's 
hunger  and  he  declined  to  carry  out  the  agreement. 
The  other  animals  remonstrated  with  him  and  said  : 
"  You  must  go,  or  we  shall  have  the  lion  eating  up 
all  the  beasts  as  he  used  to  do."  The  hare  replied  : 
"  Don't  trouble  yourselves  !  he  won't  eat  up  many 
more."  So  at  about  midday  he  appeared  before 
the  lion,  going  very  slowly,  and  said  :  "  Sir !  I 
was  travelling  along  the  road  to  come  to  you,  when 
I  was  seized  and  kept  a  prisoner  by  one  of  your 
enemies  ;  so  I  am  afraid  I  am  a  little  late  !  "  "  One 
of  my  enemies  !  "  exclaimed  the  lion,  "  and  pray 
where  is  he  ?  Let  me  see  him  at  once."  The 
cunning  hare  led  the  lion  into  an  enclosure  where 
there  was  a  well,  and  looking  down  into  the  water 
the  lion  saw  his  own  reflection.  The  foolish  lion 
thereupon  in  a  great  rage  jumped  down  into  the 
water  and  was  drowned.     For  it  has  been  said — 


76  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

"  Wisdom,  not  force,  is  the  support  of  a  people 
in  fear : 

Just  as  a  mighty  lion  was  killed  by  an  insignificant 
hare. 

The  arrow  shot  by  a  mighty  archer  may  or  may 
not  kill : 

But  the  deUberations  of  a  crafty  minister  will 
overturn  both  kingdom  and  people." 


Story   XXXII 

In  Santipura  lived  a  person  of  some  importance 
whose  name  was  Madhava,  and  he  had  a  daughter- 
in-law  called  Rajani.  She  was  beautiful  and  clever, 
but  at  the  same  time  light  and  frivolous  in  her 
behaviour.  One  day  her  mother-in-law  sent  her 
to  the  market  to  buy  some  wheat.  So  she  started 
on  her  errand,  and  having  brought  what  was 
required,  she  tied  up  the  wheat  in  a  bundle  and  was 
returning  home.  Presently  she  met  one  of  her 
admirers,  so  she  put  down  her  bundle  in  a  comer 
of  the  market,  and  went  off  to  amuse  herself  with 
him.  Meanwhile  a  man  happened  to  come  by, 
and  seeing  the  bundle,  took  out  the  wheat  and  filled 
it  up  with  sand.    Rajani  stayed  longer  than  she  had 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  ^^ 

intended,  and  eventually  came  back  in  a  great 
hurry,  and  without  looking  into  the  bundle  to  see 
if  the  wheat  was  safe  inside,  picked  it  up  and  went 
home.  On  arriving  home  her  mother-in-law  took 
the  bundle  and  opened  it,  when  to  her  astonish- 
ment she  found  nothing  but  sand.  So  she  said  to 
Rajani,  "  What  is  the  meaning  of  this  ?  "  "My 
dear  mother,"  replied  Rajani,  "  Unfortunately  I 
dropped  the  money  you  gave  me  in  the  middle  of 
the  market  place,  and  so  it  came  about  that  all 
this  sand  must  have  got  into  the  bundle  along  with 
the  money  when  I  picked  it  up."  Then  her  mother- 
in-law  hunted  about  in  the  sand  to  try  and  find 
the  money,  of  course  unsuccessfully ;  so  not  being 
able  to  make  out  what  it  all  meant,  she  held  her 
tongue  and  said  nothing  more  on  the  matter. 


Story  XXXHI 

In  a  town  called  Sankhapura  hved  a  gardener 
called  Sankara  who  was  very  rich.  His  wife's 
name  was  Rambhik^  and  he  was  absolutely  devoted 
to  her.  One  day  Sankara  had  arranged  to  hold  a 
feast  at  his  house  in  honour  of  his  ancestors,  and 
it  so  happened  that  Rambhika  had  on  the  same 


78  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

day  invited  four  of  her  admirers  to  come  to  see  her. 
She  had  been  out  selling  flowers  at  a  stall  in  the 
market,  in  the  morning,  and  had  come  across  them, 
one  after  another — a  barber,  a  shopkeeper's  son, 
an  officer,  and  a  musician.  She  had  asked  each 
of  them  separately,  and  they  had  all  accepted  her 
invitation.  So  next  day  when  the  gardener  had 
gone  into  his  garden,  the  shopkeeper's  son  arrived 
first  to  pay  his  addresses  to  the  gardener's  wife. 
He  was  shown  into  the  bathroom,  and  had  hardly 
begun  his  bathing  operations,  when  the  barber  was 
seen  running  up  to  the  house.  So  he  was  turned 
out  of  the  bathroom,  exactly  as  he  was,  and  pushed 
into  a  little  outhouse  of  wattle  and  daub  where 
the  gardener  kept  his  pots.  The  barber  then  went 
into  the  bathroom,  and  was  not  half  through  his 
bath,  when  the  musician  appeared.  So  he  in  turn 
was  shoved  into  the  outhouse,  and  told  to  be  careful, 
for  there  was  a  serpent  somewhere  about  in  it, 
with  a  brood  of  young  ones.  The  barber  thought 
to  himself,  "  Well !  I  must  keep  quiet  for  a  bit !  " 
and  just  at  that  moment,  up  came  the  officer.  The 
musician  who  was  in  the  bathroom  was  hurriedly 
got  out  and  hidden  in  the  outhouse  behind  some  pots. 
The  gardener  was  then  seen  coming  home,  so  the 
officer  was  concealed  in  the  same  place  as  the  others. 
Then  the  festival  began,  and  the  gardener  and  his 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  79 

friends  proceeded  to  carry  out  all  the  ceremonies  in 
due  form.  Presently  some  food  was  taken  to  the 
four  suitors,  who  were  ignorant  of  each  other's  pres- 
ence. No  sooner  had  the  shopkeeper's  son  taken 
the  food  than  he  spit  it  out  in  disgust.  The  barber, 
who  recollected  the  warning  about  the  serpent, 
hearing  the  sound  became  so  frightened  that  his  feel- 
ings got  the  better  of  him.  The  shopkeeper's  son  who 
had  heard  the  warning  given  to  the  barber  was  in 
such  a  state  of  alarm  that  he  upset  some  of  the 
pots,  and  one  of  them  fell  on  the  barber  who  was  a 
little  below  him.  This  completed  the  barber's  ter- 
ror, who  rushed  out  of  the  house  shouting  "  Murder." 
The  rest  hearing  the  noise  and  the  shouting  were 
all  equally  terrified,  so  they  too  ran  out  of  the  house, 
and  hurried  away  down  the  road,  while  the  gardener 
and  his  friends  looked  on  with  astonishment.  He 
could  not  make  out  what  it  all  meant,  and  he  asked 
his  wife  for  an  explanation.  "  My  dear ! "  she 
replied,  "it  is  quite  clear  that  the  ceremonies  in 
honour  of  your  ancestors  were  not  performed  with  a 
devout  mind  :  therefore  these  forefathers  of  yours, 
though  they  are  all  famishing,  will  not  eat,  and 
have  run  away  in  disgust."  So  by  her  advice  he 
repeated  the  ceremonies,  but  his  forefathers  never 
returned  to  take  part  in  them. 


8o  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

Story  XXXIV 

In  a  certain  town  lived  a  BrShman  called  Sambha. 
He  was  a  regular  gambler,  and  was  always  travelling 
about  from  one  place  to  another.  One  day  he  was 
making  his  way  along  the  road,  when  he  saw  a  very 
good-looking  girl  minding  a  field.  He  addressed 
her  in  a  famihar  tone,  and  asked  her  to  come  for 
a  walk,  at  the  same  time  promising  to  give  her  a 
piece  of  money.  So  she  agreed  and  went  along 
with  him.  After  a  time,  he  turned  to  her  and  said  : 
"  What  shall  I  give  you  ?  "  "  What  you  offered," 
she  rephed.  Well !  while  they  were  arguing  the 
point,  they  came  close  to  the  village  where  the  girl 
lived.  The  Brahman  picked  five  ears  of  com  and 
followed  close  behind  her  j  when  they  reached  the 
village,  he  made  signs  of  contempt,  and  cried  out : 
"  See  here  !  all  you  inhabitants  of  this  place  who 
are  good  for  an5rthing !  Here  is  a  girl  who  has 
sold  herself  to  me  for  these  five  ears  of  com.  The 
girl  was  dumbfounded  and  did  not  know  what 
answer  to  make,  while  the  villagers  of  course  believed 
what  the  Brahman  said. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  8i 

Story  XXXV  v 

Once  upon  a  time  there  was  a  com  merchant  whose 
name  was  Sambhaka.  It '  so  happened  that  he  was 
obliged  to  go  to  a  place  called  Saragr^ma  on  busi- 
ness, and  he  called  at  a  storekeeper's  house.  The 
storekeeper  was  not  at  home,  but  his  wife  was,  and 
she  was  not  at  all  disinclined  to  carry  on  a  flirtation 
with  any  man  she  chanced  to  meet.  Before  long 
the  pair  were  on  the  best  of  terms,  to  such  an  extent, 
indeed,  that  the  visitor  gave  her  a  ring,  as  a  small 
acknowledgment  of  her  kindness  to  him.  The  time 
came  for  him  to  leave,  and  then  he  asked  the  lady 
to  return  him  the  ring.  She  looked  on  the  ring  as, 
in  fact,  a  pa3anent  for  services  rendered,  and  de- 
clined to  hand  it  over,  so  how  was  he  to  get  it  back  ? 
Well,  this  was  the  way  he  went  to  work.  The  corn 
merchant — since  he  could  not  get  hold  of  the  ring — 
went  to  the  storekeeper  who  was  in  the  shop  and 
said  :  "  Give  me  the  lOO  measures  of  seed  you  owe 
me."  The  storekeeper  said,  "  A  hundred  measures 
of  seed  !  what  are  you  talking  about  ?  I  don't  owe 
you  anything  !  "  "  Oh,  yes,  you  do  !  "  replied  the 
other,  "  for  when  you  were  away  from  home,  I 
bought  a  hundred  measures  of  seed  from  your  wife, 
and  I  paid  her  with  a  ring  which  is  worth  double  the 
amount  of  seed  that  I  bought."    The  storekeeper  was 


82  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

very  angry,  and  said  to  his  wife  :  "  Our  shop  will  get 
a  nice  reputation  if  you  are  going  on  in  this  sort  of 
way  :  hand  over  the  ring  at  once."  Which  she  did, 
and  so  the  com  merchant  departed,  no  worse  off 
than  he  had  come,  for  he  not  only  got  back  his  ring, 
but  a  hundred  measures  of  seed  for  nothing. 


Story  XXXVI 

Once  upon  a  time  there  was  a  farmer  called  Slira- 
pala,  whose  wife  Nayini  was  always  worr5dng  him 
to  give  her  a  silk  dress.  "  My  dear,"  he  invariably 
replied,  "  we  are  farmers  ;  who  ever  heard  of  one 
of  our  family  wearing  a  silk  dress?  cotton  is  the 
proper  stuff  for  us."  So  one  day  Nayini  met  one 
of  the  village  officials,  and  gave  him  an  invitation 
to  dinner.  Her  husband  heard  of  this,  and  when 
he  came  home  he  said,  "  This  invitation  to  one  of 
the  officials  of  the  village  is  most  improper :  be- 
sides, the  man  is  not  a  friend  of  mine."  "  Why, 
then,"  she  replied,  "  do  you  not  grant  me  the  favour 
I  ask  of  you  ?  Give  me  the  silk  dress."  The  far- 
mer said  :  "  Well !  I  will  give  you  the  silk  dress, 
if  you  will  cancel  this  invitation."  "  Give  me  the 
dress,"  she  answered,  "  and  I  will  do  as  you  wish." 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  83 

So  he  gave  her  the  dress.  Now  the  question  was, 
how  was  this  intended  guest  to  be  put  off  ?  Well ! 
this  was  how  it  was  done.  Nayini  said  to  the 
official  she  had  invited :  "  When  you  come  to 
dinner,  mind  and  bring  all  the  rest  of  the  village 
functionaries  with  you.  I  will  take  care  and  give 
you  a  good  dinner."  So  they  all  came  in  a  body, 
and  had  an  excellent  entertainment ;  and  they  one 
and  all  said  :  "  Well,  this  SArapdla  is  a  lucky  fellow  : 
no  one  could  be  nicer  or  kinder  than  his  wife  is." 
And  that  was  the  way  she  kept  her  promise  and 
cancelled  the  invitation. 


Story  XXXVII 

In  a  village  called  Sangrama  there  once  lived  a 
farmer.  A  man  of  the  name  of  Purnapala  was  a 
ploughman  on  the  farm,  and  when  the  weather  was 
too  bad  for  work  in  the  fields,  he  used  to  work  in 
his  master's  house.  Now  S<irapala  had  a  daughter 
named  Subhaga,  and  she  took  a  violent  fancy  to 
this  ploughman,  and  used  to  go  and  meet  him  in  a 
copse  on  the  farm  some  way  from  the  house.  At 
last  some  of  the  labourers  were  rather  scandalized 
at  these  goings  on,  so  they  went  and  told  Stirapala. 


84  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

He  made  up  his  mind  to  go  and  see  for  himself  the 
truth  of  these  stories,  so  one  day  he  went  and  hid 
himself  in  a  place  where  he  could  see  ever5rthing, 
without  being  seen  himself.  What  he  found  out 
led  him  to  think  that  there  must  be  some  founda- 
tion for  the  stories  which  had  been  told  him.  The 
ploughman,  however,  had  discovered  somehow  or 
other  that  his  master  had  been  looking  on,  so  he 
said  with  a  sigh  :  "  What  a  Hfe  mine  is  !  Here 
I  have  to  plough,  to  get  out  the  weeds,  to  work 
from  morning  to  night.  I  might  as  well  be  in  the 
infernal  regions.  However,  my  master  is  a  good 
man,  and  I  must  do  the  best  I  can  for  him ;  so 
here  I  am  off  to  work."  Siirapala  heard  what  the 
ploughman  said,  and  so  far  from  beheving  the 
scandalous  stories  that  had  been  told  him,  thought 
the  man  absolute  perfection. 


Story  XXXIX 

There  was  a  merchant  of  the  name  of  Bhudhara 
who  lived  in  a  town  called  Kundina.  Unfor- 
tunately he  lost  all  his  money,  and  though  it  was 
not  through  any  fault  of  his  own,  he  was  cut  by 
all  his  family  and  relations.    As  it  has  been  said — 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  85 

"  A  rich  man  is  wise ;   a  rich  man  is  generous  ;  ^ 
a  rich  man  is  the  incarnation  of  virtue  ;    a  rich 
man  is  thought  much  of,  and  has  no  end  of  friends. 
But  if  his  money  go,  everything  else  goes  with 
it." 

So  this  BhMhara  having  lost  everything  that 
he  possessed  except  som6  weights  and  scales, 
went  away  to  another  country,  leaving  the  relics 
of  this  property  in  the  care  of  a  friend,  who  was 
also  a  merchant.  After  a  time  he  made  another 
fortune  and  returned  to  his  own  country.  The 
first  thing  he  did  was  to  go  to  his  friend  and  ask 
for  the  weights  and  scales.  The  merchant  did  not 
want  to  give  them  up,  and  after  some  demur  he 
said  :  "  Really  I  am  very  sorry,  but  they  have 
been  eaten  by  the  mice."  Bhiidhara  said  nothing 
but  bided  his  time,  and  one  day  soon  after  this 
he  was  walking  by  the  merchant's  house,  and 
saw  his  boy  playing  outside.  Bhudhara  promptly 
kidnapped  the  boy.  The  merchant  was  in  a 
terrible  state  at  the  loss  of  his  son,  and  started 
off  with  his  whole  family  to  try  and  find  him.  One 
of  the  neighbours  met  the  party,  who  were  full  of 
weeping  and  lamentations,  and  said  (hearing  the 
cause  of  all  this  grief)  :  "  Oh  !  I  know  where  the 
boy  is ;  I  saw  him  with  Bhudhara."  So  they 
went  to  Bhudhara's  house,  and  the  father  asked 


86  THE  ENCHANTED   PARROT 

BhMhara  to  give  him  up  his  son.  "  My  dear 
friend,"  repUed  Bhfidhara,  "  I  am  really  very  sorry, 
but  I  cannot !  Your  boy  was  with  me,  we  were 
walking  along  the  bank  of  the  river,  when  an  eagle 
came  and  carried  him  off."  On  this  the  father 
grew  very  angry  and  had  BhMhara  up  before  the 
magistrates,  on  the  charge  of  having  made  away 
with  his  son.  Bhudhara  appeared  to  answer  the 
charge,  and  when  the  judge  asked  him  what  he 
had  to  say,  he  replied :  "  My  lord !  in  a  place 
where  the  mice  can  eat  up  weights  and  scales  of 
iron,  an  eagle  might  easily  carry  off  an  elephant — 
much  more  a  boy." 

The  magistrate  who  heard  the  case  decided 
that  when  the  merchant  returned  the  weights  and 
scales  his  boy  should  be  restored  to  him,  and  so 
the  end  of  it  was  that  Bhudhara  got  back  his 
weights  and  scales,  and  the  merchant,  though  he 
recovered  his  boy,  was  punished  for  the  theft. 


Story  XL 

There  were  two  men,  one  called  Subuddhi,  the 
other  Kubuddhi,  between  whom  a  mutual  friend- 
ship had  arisen.    One  day  Subuddhi  was  obliged 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  87 

to  leave  home  on  a  long  journey,  and  Kubuddhi 
took  advantage  of  his  absence  to  make  love  to 
his  wife.  After  a  time  Subuddhi  completed  his 
business  and  returned  home,  when  Kubuddhi 
showed  how  unreal  and  deceitful  his  friendship 
was.  Approaching  Subuddhi  with  a  great  show 
of  affection,  he  said  :  "My  dear  friend,  tell  me 
if  in  the  course  of  your  travels  you  have  seen 
anything  curious  or  remarkable  ?  "  "  Yes,  I 
have,"  replied  Subuddhi,  "  for  on  the  banks  of  a 
certain  river,  near  a  town  called  Manoratha,  I 
saw  a  mango  tree  bearing  fruit  out  of  season." 
"  Is  that  really  so  ?  "  asked  Kubuddhi.  "  Yes. 
it  is,"  rejoined  the  other.  "  I  am  telling  you  the 
exact  truth."  "  Well,"  said  Kubuddhi,  "  if  this 
turns  out  to  be  the  exact  truth,  as  you  say  it  is, 
then  you  shall  take  away  from  my  house  whatever 
you  can  carry  in  your  two  hands ;  if  not,  then 
I  will  do  the  same  by  you."  The  bargain  was 
agreed  upon,  and  Kubuddhi  the  very  same  night 
went  and  picked  the  fruit  off  the  tree  on  which 
it  was  growing.  So  when  the  matter  came  to  be 
tested,  and  the  fruit  could  not  be  found,  Subuddhi 
seemed  to  have  got  the  worst  of  it,  and  as  Kubuddhi 
was  very  anxious  to  get  possession  of  his  friend's 
wife,  he  demanded  that  the  bargain  should  be 
carried  out.    Subuddhi,  somehow  or  other,  had 


88  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

become  perfectly  acquainted  with  his  friend's 
intention,  and  what  he  did  was  this.  He  put 
his  wife  on  the  top  of  the  house  and  pulled  down 
the  staircase.  Kubuddhi  soon  appeared  on  the 
scene,  and  Subuddhi  said  to  him  :  "  I  am  very 
glad  to  see  you  ;  pray  take  out  of  my  house  what- 
ever you  like."  So  Kubuddhi,  who  could  not 
reach  the  lady  on  the  housetop,  went  off  to  get 
a  ladder.  "Stop!"  said  Subuddhi;  "  this  will 
never  do  !  The  bargain  is,  that  you  may  take 
what  you  like  out  of  my  house  with  your  two 
hands ;  there  is  nothing  about  ladders  in  the 
agreement."  Se  Kubuddhi  got  the  worst  of  it 
and  had  to  go  home  again  without  having  gained 
his  object,  besides  which  he  became  the  laughing- 
stock of  the  whole  town. 


Story  XLII 

In  a  village  called  Devalakhya  lived  a  prince 
whose  name  was  Rajasinha.  His  wife  was  a 
person  of  irreproachable  reputation,  but  very  ill- 
tempered  and  quarrelsome.  One  day  she  had  a 
violent  altercation  with  her  husband,  and  in  con- 
sequence left  home  and  started  off  with  her  two 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  89 

softs  to  her  father's  house.  She  travelled  through 
several  towns  and  villages,  and  at  last  reached  a 
large  wood  near  Malaya,  where  she  saw  a  tiger. 
The  tiger  saw  her  too,  and  came  towards  her  lash- 
ing his  tail  with  rage.  She  felt  somewhat  alarmed, 
but  put  on  a  bold  front,  and  administering  a  smart 
slap  to  her  sons  she  said  :  "  What  do  you  mean  by 
quarrelling  over  who  is  to  have  a  tiger  to  eat  ? 
Can't  you  see  one  here  close  by  ?  Eat  him  first 
and  then  we  will  go  and  find  another."  The  tiger 
heard  all  this,  and  thinking  to  himself,  "  Surely 
this  lady  must  be  indeed  a  formidable  person," 
took  to  his  heels  and  ran  away  in  terror. 


Story  XLIII 

Presently  a  jackal  met  him.  He  burst  into  a 
fit  of  laughter  and  said  :  "  Hullo  !  here  is  a  tiger 
running  away  from  something  in  a  fright."  "  Friend 
jackal,"  replied  the  tiger,  "  the  sooner  you  go  off 
to  some  far  distant  country  the  better,  for  there  is 
a  most  terrible  person  hereabouts — a  regular  tiger- 
eater  !  such  as  one  only  hears  of  in  fables.  She 
has  almost  been  the  death  of  me  ;  as  soon  as  I  saw 
her,  I  ran  away  as  fast  as  I  could."     "  Well,  I  am 


90  THE  ENCHANTED    PARROT 

surprised,"  said  the  jackal.  "  Do  you  mean  tliat 
you  are  afraid  of  what  after  all  is  only  a  piece  of 
human  flesh  ?  "  "I  was  close  to  her,"  answered 
the  tiger,  "  and  what  she  did  and  said  was  enough 
to  frighten  any  one."  The  jackal  answered: 
"  Well,  I  think  I  shall  go  by  myself  and  see  if  I  can 
find  this  tiger-eating  lady.  You  had  perhaps 
better  not  come,  as  she  might  recognize  you  again." 
"  Whether  you  go  with  me  or  without  me,"  replied 
the  tiger,  "  it  will  make  no  difference ;  you  are 
certain  to  be  destroyed." 

"  Well,  then,"  said  the  jackal,  "  let  me  mount 
on  your  back,  and  we  will  go  together."  So  the 
jackal  was  tied  on  the  tiger's  back  and  off  they 
started,  and  very  soon  found  the  tiger-eater  with 
her  two  sons.  She  felt  a  little  nervous  at  first, 
seeing  the  tiger  had  come  back  accompanied  by  a 
jackal,  but  reflecting  a  minute  she  cried  out :  "  You 
rascally  jackal !  once  upon  a  time  you  used  to 
bring  me  three  tigers  at  once  ;  what  do  you  mean  by 
coming  here  with  only  one  ?  "  The  tiger  heard 
this,  and  was  so  frightened  that  he  turned  and  fled 
with  the  jackal  on  his  back. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  91 


Story  XLIV 

The  tiger  continued  his  headlong  course,  while  the 
jackal,  tied  on  the  tiger's  back,  suffered  the  greatest 
discomfort  and  inconvenience.  The  question  for 
him  was,  how  to  get  out  of  this  unfortunate  posi- 
tion, for  the  tiger  in  deadly  fear  tore  through  rivers, 
over  mountains,  through  forests.  Suddenly  he 
burst  into  a  loud  fit  of  laughter.  The  tiger  ex- 
claimed :  "  Well !  I  can't  see  what  there  is  to  laugh 
at !  "  "A  great  deal,  I  think,"  replied  the  jackal. 
"  It  has  just  occurred  to  me  how  cleverly  we  have 
cheated  that  scoundrelly  tiger-eater.  Here  I  am 
safe  and  sound  with  your  help,  and  she  has  been 
left  behind,  no  one  knows  where.  That  was  why 
I  laughed.  So,  my  dear  tiger,  do  let  me  get  down 
and  see  where  we  are."  The  tiger  felt  flattered 
and  willingly  loosed  the  jackal  off  his  back.  No 
sooner  had  he  done  so  than  he  suddenly  fell  down 
dead,  and  the  jackal  went  off  rejoicing.  For  it  has 
been  said — 

"  Wisdom  is  better  than  pomp  and  display,  for 
by  it  men  may  gain  place,  riches,  and  honour  :  but 
he  who  is  devoid  of  wisdom  falls  into  dire  misfor- 
tune. The  strength  of  the  ignorant  is  used  to 
carry  out  the  business  of  another,  even  as  the 


92  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

surpassing  might  of  an  elephant  is  made  subject  to 
man." 


Story  XLVI 

In  a  town  called  Vatsoma  lived  a  BrElhman  as  poor 
as  he  was  wise.  His  wife's  name  was  Karagara 
(the  poisoner)  and  it  fitted  her  to  a  nicety.  All  the 
animals  for  miles  round  were  terrified  at  her,  and  a 
certain  goblin  who  lived  in  a  tree  near  the  house 
was  so  much  afraid  of  her  that  he  ran  away  into  the 
forest.  Soon  after  the  Brahman  followed  their 
example  for  the  same  reason,  and  left  his  home. 
In  the  course  of  his  journey  he  met  this  goblin ; 
and  the  goblin  said  to  him,  "  You  seem  to  have  had 
a  long  journey.  You  must  be  tired  and  hungry, 
come  with  me  and  I  will  give  you  something  to 
eat." 

The  Brihman,  who  recognized  the  quaUty  of  his 
would-be  host,  felt  a  little  nervous  and  said  :  "  With 
pleasure,  but  if  I  accept  your  hospitaUty  will  you 
let  me  go  again  ?  "  "  Certainly  I  will,"  replied  the 
goblin,  "  you  need  not  be  the  least  afraid.  The 
fact  is  this.  I  know  who  you  are,  for  you  were 
once  my  master.    I  used  to  live  in  a  tree  just  out- 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  93 

side  your  house,  and  I  ran  away  because  I  was 
afraid  of  your  wife  Karagara.  You  may  depend 
upon  my  behaving  towards  you  as  I  ought.  We 
will  go  now  to  Mrigavati.  The  king's  daughter, 
Sulochana,  is  very  ill,  and  the  physicians  have 
given  her  up.  You  will  very  hkely  with  your 
knowledge  and  wisdom  be  able  to  do  what  the 
doctors  cannot.  When  we  have  reached  Mrigavati 
I  will  leave  you." 

Before  long  they  arrived  at  Mrigavati,  where 
they  heard  a  proclamation  inviting  any  person 
who  was  able  and  willing,  to  come  forward  and  cure 
the  king's  daughter.  So  the  Brahman  on  the 
strength  of  this  proclamation  went  to  the  king's 
Court  and  performed  the  required  cure.  After  this 
the  goblin  declined  to  leave  him,  as  he  had  pro- 
mised.   So  the  Brahman  said :    It  is  written — 

"  Men  of  good  family,  students  of  the  sacred 
Scriptures  may  not  break  their  promises :  how 
much  less  one  who  is  of  immortal  race." 

On  this  the  goblin  was  ashamed  and  went  away, 
and  the  Brahman  received  the  king's  daughter, 
and  half  the  kingdom,  a  reward  far  beyond  anything 
he  had  hoped  or  expected. 


94  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

Story  XLVH 

So  the  BrELhman  and  the  princess  enjoyed  the 
delights  of  sovereignty.  Not  long  afterwards, 
however,  the  gobHn  came  and  carried  off  Sulochana. 
The  family  were  distracted,  and  sent  to  ask  a  famous 
magician  to  come  and  help  them.  He  declined  to 
have  anything  to  do  with  the  business  on  any  terms, 
so  the  Brdhman  started  off  on  his  own  account  to 
try  and  get  SulochanS  out  of  the  goblin's  clutches. 

When  he  reached  the  place,  the  goblin  jeered  at 
him,  making  use  of  all  kinds  of  insulting  expres- 
sions. "  I  have  carried  out  my  part  of  the  busi- 
ness," he  said.  "  Now,  my  reverend  friend,  look  out 
for  yourself." 

The  Brihman  said  nothing,  but  waited  a  minute, 
and  then  went  up  to  the  goblin  and  whispered : 
"  Listen !  Karagara  is  coming,  she  is  just  behind 
me.  I  came  on  in  advance  to  tell  you."  This  was 
enough  for  the  goblin,  and  hearing  Karagara's 
name  he  dropped  Sulochana,  took  to  his  heels,  and 
gave  the  Brahman  no  more  trouble. 
.  So  the  Brahman  having  accomplished  his  mission 
returned  with  high  honour  to  Mrigavati. 


THE  ENCHANTED   PARROT  95 

Story  XLVIII 

There  was  a  king  called  Narada,  in  Patalipura. 
He  was  the  sovereign  of  the  whole  world,  for  by 
his  wisdom  and  the  wisdom  of  his  ministers  all 
kings  and  princes  were  made  subject  to  him.  Now 
King  Narada  lost  all  his  sense  of  duty,  and  was  on 
the  point  of  gambhng  away  both  money  and  king- 
dom when  he  was  prevented  from  doing  so  by 
his  prime  minister.  The  stupid  king  was  very 
angry  at  his  will  being  opposed  and  put  his  prime 
minister,  whose  name  was  Sakatala,  in  prison. 
Sakatala  remained  so  long  in  the  prison  that  people 
began  to  think  that  he  must  be  dead.  Just  about 
this  time  the  king  of  a  neighbouring  country  sent 
some  messengers  to  Narada  with  a  couple  of  mares 
to  test  his  abilities.  The  point  put  before  the  king 
was  this.  Of  the  two  mares  which  is  the  dam, 
and  which  is  the  filly.  The  mares  were  exactly 
alike  in  all  points,  and  persons,  skilled  in  horse- 
flesh, were  summoned  from  all  parts  of  the  king- 
dom to  give  their  opinion.  No  one,  however,  could 
be  found  to  find  an  answer  to  the  question ;  so 
Sakatala,  the  late  minister,  occurred  to  Narada, 
for  it  was  quite  clear  that  without  him  neither  king 
nor  country  were  of  much  account.  It  is  said — 
"  Tlie  overthrow  of  an  honest  and  virtuous 
minister  endowed  with  wisdom  means  the  over- 


96  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

throw  of  the  realm  and  the  sovereign.  When  the 
kingdom  has  been  ruined  it  is  of  no  use  to  try  Eind 
find  the  minister." 

Reflecting  on  such  maxims,  the  king  sent  for  the 
chief  of  his  police,  and  asked  them  whether  any- 
thing were  known  of  Sakatala.  "  Something  may 
possibly  be  known,"  answered  the  chief ;  "  but 
nothing  accurately :  for  it  was  forbidden  under 
the  severest  penalties  to  have  anything  to  do  with 
Sakatala."  However,  the  poUce  went  to  the  prison 
where  Sakatala  had  been  confined,  found  him,  and 
brought  him  out,  paying  him  the  utmost  respect, 
telling  him  that  he  was  worthy  of  all  honour,  that 
he  was  a  friend,  a  spiritual  father,  a  prince,  one  to 
whom  all  looked  for  refuge. 

A  prince  is  a  protector  in  adversity ; 

A  spiritual  superior  is  an  instructor  in  the  sacred 
Scriptures ; 

A  friend  shows  sympathy  to  those  in  trouble ; 

A  ruler  is  a  refuge  in  time  of  fear. 

So  the  minister  said  to  the  king  :  "  Sir  !  what 
is  it  that  you  want  to  know  ?  "  The  king  put  the 
problem  before  Sakatala,  and  asked  him  to  solve 
it.  So  Sakatala  had  the  two  mares  saddled  and 
bridled,  and  took  them  on  to  the  neighbouring  race 
course.  After  having  galloped  them  up  and  down 
for  some  time,  he  had  the  saddles  and  bridles  taken 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  97 

off,  and  turned  them  loose  in  a  paddock.  He  very 
soon  found  out  which  was  which,  for  the  dam 
licked  the  filly  all  over,  and  the  filly  showed  every 
sign  of  affection.  So  having  found  out  the  answer, 
Sakatala  went  and  told  the  king,  and  not  only 
received  his  former  position,  but  gained  great  credit 
and  riches  for  himself. 


Story  L 

In  a  certain  town  in  a  remote  quarter  of  the  world 
lived  two  friends ;  the  name  of  one  was  Dharma- 
buddhi,  of  the  other  Dushtabuddhi.  One  day  they 
started  on  an  expedition  to  try  and  make  some 
money,  and  having  been  very  successful,  they 
determined  to  return  to  their  native  town.  Before 
starting  they  decided  to  take  some  part  of  their 
money  home  with  them,  and  to  bury  the  remainder, 
and  far  the  larger  part,  under  a  pipal  tree,  with  the 
idea  of  returning  eventually  and  dividing  it  between 
them.  This  having  been  done  they  went  to  their 
respective  homes,  well  pleased,  and  prepared  to 
thoroughly  enjoy  themselves.  Well  now !  just 
hear  what  Dushtabuddhi  did — ^indeed,  I  am  ashamed 
to  say  what  he  did ;  for — 

G 


98  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

"  It  is  not  fitting  to  relate  what  is  base  and  wicked ; 
Evil  deeds  should  not  even  be  spoken  of." 
For  Dushtabuddhi  went  and  dug  up  all  the 
money  and  carried  it  off  to  his  own  house.  When 
the  time  came  for  dividing  the  money,  the  two 
friends  went  together  to  the  tree  under  which  it 
had  been  buried,  but,  of  course,  it  was  not  to  be 
found.  So  Dharmabuddhi  went  before  the  magis- 
trate, told  him  what  had  happened,  and  charged 
Dushtabuddhi  with  having  stolen  the  money. 
Dushtabuddhi  was  called  upon  to  answer  this  accu- 
sation, and  he  offered  security  for  £i,ooo  to  clear 
himself  by  oath.  The  magistrate  agreed  to  this 
course,  and  having  taken  security  of  Dushtabuddhi 
the  parties  went  home.  Dushtabuddhi  then  told 
his  father  what  had  happened,  and  having  told  him 
what  to  do,  hid  him  in  the  hollow  of  the  pipal  tree. 
Next  morning,  the  magistrate,  the  plaintiff,  the 
defendant,  and  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  town,  went 
to  the  tree  in  great  expectation.  Dushtabuddhi 
went  through  a  regular  course  of  purification,  and 
then'  making  a  profound  obeisance  to  the  tree,  said 
that  the  truth  would  soon  be  known.  "  Most  noble 
tree  !  "  he  exclaimed,  "  I  pray  you  speak  the  truth  ! 
Did  I  take  the  money  or  did  I  not  ?  "  His  father 
hidden  in  the  ptpal  tree  answered,  "  Certainly  not !  " 
and  as  every  one  present  heard  the  answer,  it  seemed 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  99 

pretty  clear  that  Dushtabuddhi  was  innocent  of 
the  theft.  But  Dharmabuddhi  was  not  to  be  taken 
in,  for  he  had  recognized  the  voice  of  Dushta- 
buddhi's  father.  So  he  went  and  set  fire  to  the 
tree.  Presently  the  old  gentleman  was  seen  scramb- 
ling out  of  the  hollow,  scorched  with  the  fire,  and 
almost  suffocated.  On  this  the  magistrate  had 
Dushtabuddhi  arrested,  punished  him,  and  ordered 
him  to  restore  Dharmabuddhi  the  money  which  he 
had  stolen. 


Story  LI 

There  is  a  town  called  Chamatkarapura,  and  it  was 
inhabited  by  a  pious  and  wealthy  people.  One 
day  some  Brahmans  living  there  made  up  their 
minds  to  go  on  a  pilgrimage  to  the  Lord  of  Vallabhi, 
and  they  started  with  a  goodly  company  of  horses 
and  chariots,  together  with  their  wives  and  children, 
taking  with  them  plentiful  supplies  for  the  journey. 
On  the  road  they  were  attacked  by  a  band  of 
thieves,  and  they  fled  in  all  directions.  One  of  the 
reverend  gentlemen  whose  name  was  Gangila  hap- 
pened to  be  lame,  consequently  he  was  unable  to 
run  away  with  the  rest  of  the  party.     So  he  re- 


100         THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

mained  in  the  carriage  which  conveyed  him,  and 
preten,ding  not  to  be  the  least  alarmed,  called  out 
to  his  brother  who  was  with  him,  and  said  :  "  Tell 
me !  How  many  elephants  and  horses  have  you 
got !  Be  quick  and  bring  me  my  magic  bow  and  I 
will  very  speedily  put  an  end  to  these  rascals." 
The  thieves  hearing  this  took  themselves  oft  at 
once.     For — 

If  a  man  speaks  wisely  and  suitably — and  does 
not  lose  his  head, 

No  one  can  possibly  get  the  better  of  him. 


Story  LII 

In  a  remote  part  of  the  world  lies  a  town  called 
Pratishth^na.  The  name  of  the  king's  son  was 
Durdamana,  and  he  began  to  think  that  he  ought 
to  be  making  a  position  for  himself  and  not  to  rely 
on  his  father.  So  he  started  off  with  three  friends 
like  minded  with  himself,  one  the  son  of  a  Br4hman^ 
another  the  son  of  a  merchant,  the  third  a  young 
carpenter.  They  held  a  consultation  as  to  the 
best  way  to  begin  their  expedition,  and  finally 
decided  to  pay  their  respects  to  the  ocean,  the 
abode  of  hidden  treasures.    For  it  is  said — 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  loi 

"The  house  of  the  wise,  the  well-born,  those 
endowed  with  constancy  and  good  fortune,  is  as 
the  king's  palace. 

"  Good  men  always  help  the  good,  even  as  an 
elephant  in  the  mire  is  drawn  out  by  an  ele- 
phant. " 

So  with  these  maxims  in  mind,  after  having 
fasted,  and  offered  the  due  number  of  sacrifices, 
they  approached  the  ocean  with  their  entreaties, 
and  the  ocean  was  so  pleased  with  them  that  he 
gave  them  each  a  magic  jewel. 

They  seemed  to  have  made  a  good  start,  so  they 
each  handed  their  jewel  over  to  the  keeping  of  the 
merchant,  who  promised  to  take  care  of  it  for  them. 
The  merchant,  however,  was  a  rogue,  and  he  took 
the  jewels  and  sewed  them  upon  the  band  of  his 
trousers  with  the  idea  of  keeping  them  himself. 
Soon  after  this  they  were  travelling  along  the  road, 
when  the  merchant,  who  was  a  little  behind  the  rest, 
suddenly  cried  out  loudly  :  "  Help  !  stop  thief ! 
I  have  been  robbed."  The  others  came  running 
up  to  see  what  was  the  matter  and  he  said,  "  I  just 
turned  aside  off  the  road  for  a  moment,  and  I  was 
set  on  by  some  thieves,  and  I  have  lost  everything, 
your  jewels  included."  His  companions  heard  what 
he  said,  and  commented  upon  it  among  themselves. 
Their  opinion  was  that  the  man  was  a  scoundrel, 


102  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

and  that  he  had  made  away  with  their  property. 
A  day  or  two  after  they  reached  a  city  called  Air- 
arati,  where  a  certain  Buddhisara  hved.  He  was 
the  king's  chief  minister,  and  his  fame  reached  over 
the  whole  world.  When  disputants  came  before 
him,  they  had  only  to  state  their  case  and  without 
the  smallest  delay  he  gave  his  decision,  and  the 
decision  was  always  right.  So  the  son  of  the 
prince  with  his  other  two  friends  went  and  laid  the 
whole  matter  before  him.  They  said :  "  If  you 
will  only  examine  into  the  matter,  and  question  us 
separately,  you  are  certain  to  find  out  all  the  truth, 
your  penetration  cannot  fail  to  get  to  the  bottom 
of  the  mystery."  When  Buddhisara  heard  this 
he  was  somewhat  perplexed.  He  tried  his  best 
but  he  could  not  come  to  any  conclusion  as  to  the 
thief,  or  the  whereabout  of  the  jewels,  and  went 
home  in  a  very  dejected  state.  His  daughter 
observed  that  he  seemed  very  much  out  of  sorts, 
and  asked  him  what  was  the  matter.  The  minister 
told  her  the  story  and  she  said,  "  My  dear  father  ! 
don't  put  yourself  out !  I  will  find  out  where  the 
jewels  are."  "  A  Ukely  thing  indeed,"  replied 
the  minister.  "  If  I  cannot  find  it  out,  I  don't 
know  how  you  possibly  can."    She  answered — 

"  No  one  in  this  world  ought  to  say,   '  My  skill 
has  forsaken  me  '  : 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  103 

For  who  can  know  more  than  very  little  of 
anything  ? 

Difficulties  are  removed  by  the  eyes  which  beam 
with  knowledge, 

Just  as  darkness  is  dispelled  by  a  lantern  carried 
in  the  hand." 

So  in  obedience  to  his  daughter's  wish,  the 
minister  invited  the  whole  party  to  his  house. 
They  bathed  and  dined  sumptuously  and  then  were 
shown  to  their  beds  each  in  separate  rooms.  Then 
the  minister's  daughter  went  to  the  prince  first  and 
made  overtures  of  love  to  him,  at  the  same  time 
asking  him  for  £100.  He  replied,  "  I  have  no 
money  with  me  but,  if  you  will  let  me  go  home  and 
fetch  some,  I  will  return  and  give  it  to  you."  She 
said,  "  Oh,  no  !  that  will  not  do  for  me,  I  must  have 
it  now,"  and  went  on  to  the  Brahman  who  made 
pretty  much  the  same  answer.  So  she  next  tried 
the  carpenter.  He  said,  "  I  have  not  got  the 
money  with  me,  but  if  you  will  wait  I  will  gladly 
let  you  have  £100."  Declining  to  let  the  carpenter 
have  credit  she  finally  went  to  the  merchant,  and 
addressed  herself  to  him.  He  replied,  "  I  have 
not  got  any  money,  but  here  are  four  valuable  jewels 
which  you  can  have  if  you  hke,"  and  he  took  them 
out  of  his  trousers  where  they  had  been  sewn  up. 
She  took  them  and  saying,  "  Well !   I  must  just  go 


104  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

and  have  them  tested  to  see  if  they  are  genuine," 
handed  them  over  to  her  father,  who  restored  to 
each  man  the  property  that  belonged  to  him. 


Story  LIV 

Once  upon  a  time  there  was  a  king  called  Dharma- 
datta,  who  ruled  over  Sakravati.  He  was  endued 
with  righteousness — the  essence  of  all  virtues. 
Suiila  was  his  chief  minister,  and  beside  him  was 
another  man  living  in  the  place,  whose  name  was 
Vishnu.  This  Vishnu  had  been  a  minister,  but 
somehow  or  other  he  had  lost  his  money  as  well  as 
the  position  which  he  formerly  used  to  hold.  The 
consequence  was  that  he  grew  morose  and  disagree- 
able— quite  wrapped  up  in  himself,  and  the  con- 
templation of  his  misfortunes.  Moreover,  the  king 
took  a  disHke  to  him — entirely  ignored  his  exist- 
ence. One  day  Suiila  asked  the  king  how  it  was 
that  Vishnu  had  grown  so  dull  and  dejected :  but 
the  king  took  no  notice  of  Sulila's  remark.  SuSila 
therefore  continued  :  "  Sir  !  Vishnu  is  honourable 
and  charming  :  he  is  excellent  at  diplomacy ;  you 
ought  to  send  him  upon  a  mission  somewhere  or 
other."    The  king  hearing  what  Suiila    said,  did 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  105 

not  feel  any  more  amiably  disposed  towards  Vishnu ; 
so  he  sealed  up  some  ashes  in  a  parcel  and  told 
Vishnu  to  take  them  to  Saturdamana,  the  King  of 
Vidisa.  Vishnu  immediately  started  on  his  mission 
and  gave  the  parcel  to  King  Saturdamana,  with- 
out knowing  what  it  contained.  The  king  opened 
the  parcel,  and  when  he  found  what  was  inside  it, 
he  was  exceedingly  angry.  So  it  seemed  as  if 
Vishnu  were  placed  in  a  somewhat  critical  position, 
but  he  was  a  very  prudent  man,  and  seeing  how 
angry  the  King  of  Vidisa  was,  he  said : — 

"  Sir !  My  lord  has  been  offering  the  Aiva- 
medha  sacrifice,  and  to  do  your  majesty  honour,  he 
has  sent  you  some  of  the  ashes  from  the  sacrificial 
mound.  They  spring  from  the  union  of  the  three 
fires :  they  bring  purification,  prosperity,  pro- 
tection from  evil.     It  has  been  said — 

"  '  Elephants  are  a  noble  offering  ;"^horses  are  a 
noble  offering ; 

But  in  what  kingdom  will  you  find  a  nobler  offer- 
ing than  the  ashes  of  the  holy  sacrifice  ?  '  " 

So  saying  he  took  the  ashes  up  in  his  hand  and  pre- 
sented them  to  the  King  of  Vidisa.  His  majesty 
was  so  pleased  with  the  offering,  and  the  speech, 
that  he  loaded  Vishnu  with  riches  and  honour,  and 
sent  him  back  to  his  own  country. 


io6  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

Story  LV 

In  the  village  of  Charmakuta  lived  a  Brahman  called 
Srtdhara.  In  the  same  place  there  was  a  cobbler 
who  had  made  a  pair  of  shoes  for  Sridhara,  and 
though  he  was  always  asking  him  to  pay  for  the 
shoes,  he  never  could  get  the  money :  all  that  Srid- 
hara said  was,  "  Some  day  or  other  you  shall  be 
satisfied  !  "  So  time  went  by,  and  at  last  the  cobbler 
seized  hold  of  the  Brahman  and  demanded  payment. 
This  was  very  awkward  for  the  Brahman,  for  he  had 
no  money  whatever.  So  being  a  man  of  expedients 
he  said  :  "  My  worthy  cobbler  !  I  told  you  that 
you  should  be  satisfied  before  long.  Now  a  son  hcis 
been  born  to  the  lord  of  the  village  :  are  you  satis- 
fied or  not  ?  "  The  cobbler  was  in  a  dilemma,  for 
he  knew  that  if  he  said  "  No  !  "  he  would  fall  under 
the  lord's  displeasure  ;  if  "  Yes  !  "  he  would  lose 
the  money  owing  to  him.  So  of  the  two  evils  he 
chose  the  least,  and  let  the  Brahman  off  without 
paying. 


Story  LVII 

There  was  a  king  called  VikramElrka,  and  his  wife's 
name  was  Chandralekha.    She  took  a  violent  fancy 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  107 

to  one  of  the  king's  wise  men,  a  certain  Subhakara, 
and  used  to  correspond  with  him  frequently.  Be- 
sides this  she  was  always  making  assignations  with 
him  and  going  to  his  house.  One  night  in  the  rainy 
season  the  queen  started  to  visit  Subhakara.  "  The 
king  of  the  rains  was  come  ;  the  noise  of  thunder 
the  drums  that  heralded  his  approach  ;  the  roaring 
of  the  clouds  the  chorus  of  singers  that  went  before 
him  ;  the  flashes  of  lightning  his  victorious  ban- 
ners. The  dark  days,  the  floods  of  rain,  the 
oceans  of  mud,  the  flashing  of  the  lightning.  These 
things  stand  in  the  way  and  prevent  women  meeting 
their  lovers." 

The  king  discovered  that  Chandralekha  had 
started  for  Subhakara's  house,  so  he  put  on  dark 
clothes,  took  a  sword  in  his  hand,  and  followed  her 
without  her  knowing  it. 

Subhakara  met  the  queen  at  the  door  of  the  house, 
and  repeated  these  verses — 

"  When  the  sky  is  all  in  confusion  ;  when  blinding 
darkness  is  over  the  whole  earth ;  when  the  night 
watches  are  stunned  with  the  noise  ;  in  such  a  con- 
dition of  things  as  this,  why  do  you  come  from  the 
innermost  apartments  of  the  sovereign  who  burns 
up  his  enemies  as  the  fire  which  lies  within  the 
ocean?  Surely  it  is  a  mere  pretence  that  women 
cannot  endure  even  the  eye  of  the  lotus." 


io8  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

The  king  heard  Subhakara's  words,  and  felt  flat- 
tered ;  meanwhile  the  wise  man  comforted  the 
queen  with  delicate  attentions  and  pleasant 
speeches. 

Next  morning  the  king  sent  for  the  queen,  and 
summoned  the  Pandit  to  meet  her.  Turning  to 
Subhakara,  he  said  :  "  Surely  it  is  a  mere  pretence 
that  women  cannot  endure  even  the  eye  of  the 
lotus."  Subhakara,  hearing  this,  gave  himself  up 
for  lost,  for  he  thought  that  everything  had  been 
found  out,  for — 

"  Even  in  a  humble  dwelling,  punishment  follows 
evil  doing ; 

How  much  more  in  the  king's  palace." 

So  he  reflected  for  a  moment,  and  then  he  said — 

"  Thy  glory,  most  noble  lord,  rules  the  waters  of 
the  ocean  filled  with  terrible  monsters,  penetrates 
even  to  the  heaven,  climbs  the  inaccessible  moun- 
tain ;  is  powerful  even  in  hell  filled  with  poison- 
breathing  monsters.  O  love  incarnate  !  Surely  the 
fear  of  women  that  can  face  this  must  be  feigned." 

The  king  heard  what  the  Pandit  said,  and  looked 
at  him  and  the  queen.  He  thought  to  himself : 
Here  is  a  wise  and  prudent  man,  he  is  not  easy  to 
catch  out,  but  as  for  women  there  is  no  difficulty 
with  them.  So  he  took  the  queen  by  the  hand, 
and  said  to  the  wise  man :    "  Here  is  the  queen, 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  109 

take  her  !  "  The  Pandit  was  delighted,  but  as  a 
discreet  man  should,  he  concealed  his  feelings,  and 
he  said  :  "  How  can  a  man  who  knows  not  the 
Scriptures  distinguish  between  good  and  evil  ? 
How  can  a  man  who  is  blind  distinguish  between 
beauty  and  ugliness  ?  " 

And  so  the  end  of  it  was  that  the  Pandit,  as  a 
reward  for  his  discretion,  fully  enjoyed  the  queen's 
company  by  the  permission  of  the  king. 


Story  LIX 

In  a  village  called  Sangama  lived  a  Rajaputra,  who 
was  as  stupid  as  he  was  ill-tempered.  His  wife's 
name  was  Rukmini.  One  day  they  started  off 
together  on  a  pilgrimage  to  a  shrine,  and  on  the 
road  he  caught  Rukmini  making  sheep's  eyes  at  a 
passer  by.  The  Rajaputra  very  naturally  con- 
cluded that  she  wanted  to  attract  attention,  so  he 
turned  back  at  once,  and  went  home.  When  he 
reached  his  house  he  expressed  himself  pretty 
strongly,  and  locked  his  wife  up.  She  thought  to 
herself,  "  Well !  so  much  for  this !  Before  I  am 
many  hours  older  I  will  bring  some  one  into  the 
house,  and  make  love  to  him  right  under  my  stupid 


no  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

husband's  nose."  After  a  time  her  husband  let 
her  out  again,  and  the  first  person  she  chanced  to 
meet  was  the  admirer  whom  she  had  lately  met 
when  she  was  travelling  with  her  husband.  So 
she  called  out  to  him  and  said :  "  Come  and  see 
me  this  evening,  and  we  will  sit  under  the  tamarind 
tree  in  the  courtyard."  He  was  very  glad  to  come, 
and  in  due  course  put  in  an  appearance,  and  found 
rest  and  refreshment  provided  for  him  under  the 
tamarind  tree.  As  soon  as  he  was  comfortably 
settled  she  sent  for  her  husband,  and  he  came 
with  his  bow  and  arrows.  "  You,  my  dear  hus- 
band," she  said,  "  are  a  famous  shot !  You  are  a 
mighty  hero !  Your  skill  and  prowess  is  the 
common  talk  of  the  whole  earth !  I  wish  you 
would  just  lop  a  bit  off  the  moonlight  for  me." 

The  Rajaputra,  who  really  was  a  great  fool,  took 
his  bow  and  aimed  at  a  streak  of  moonlight,  and 
missed  his  mark ;  at  this  she  clapped  her  hands 
and  laughed.  When  he  heard  her  jeers  at  his  clum- 
siness he  tried  to  find  another  arrow  but  failed,  and 
while  he  was  fumbling  in  the  dark  she  cried  out  and 
said :  "  You  fool !  I  have  carried  out  my  inten- 
tion, and  I  have  brought  my  admirer  right  into  the 
middle  of  your  house.  You  are  a  good  shot,  but 
this  time  you  are  unlucky.  Now  I  am  off,  so  good- 
bye to  you."    So  saying  she  mounted  a  horse  and 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  iii 

went  with  her  lover ;  and  the  Rajaputra,  too  much 
ashamed  of  his  failure  to  say  anything,  let  her  go 
without  a  word.  Indeed,  who  that  has  given  his 
affection  to  women  has  not  suffered  for  it  ?  For  it 
has  been  said — 

"  Even  Brahma  himself  fell  into  the  snare  ;  who 
can  be  a  match  for  women  ?  Women  are  the  root 
of  the  tree  of  painful  existence,  the  ground  in  which 
grows  the  tree  of  wickedness,  the  flower  from  which 
comes  the  fruit  of  penitence.  How  can  women  bring 
peace  ?  From  women  spring  confusion  ;  confusion 
overtakes  those  who  have  to  do  with  women.  Cast- 
ing them  off,  then  we  may  perhaps  attain  to  happi- 
ness." 

Prabh3,vati  answered  the  Parrot  and  said — 

"  But  women  are  the  cause  of  existence  ;  women 
are  the  cause  of  growth  j 

Women  are  the  cause  of  pleasure.  How  can  they 
be  evil  ? 

Without  them  there  can  be  no  enjoyment ;  with- 
out them  no  pleasure. 

Without  them  a  man  is  of  no  account." 

Also — 

"  Women  have  been  created  as  a  jar  of  ambrosia  ; 
a  mine  of  pleasure  ;  the  abode  of  love.  What  can 
bring  peace  and  happiness  more  than  the  society  of 
a  lovely  woman  ?  " 


112  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

The  Parrot  heard  what  she  had  to  say,  and  re- 
pUed  :  "  There  is  a  good  deal  of  difference  between 
coats  of  mail,  elephants,  and  horses — between  wool, 
wood,  and  stone — between  water,  women  and  men." 


Story  LX 

A  CERTAIN  king  built  a  magnificent  hall,  and  adorned 
it  lavishly  with  gold  and  jewels.  A  neighbouring 
sovereign,  hearing  of  its  splendour,  sent  an  envoy 
called  Haridatta,  with  a  present  of  elephants,  horses 
and  jewels,  to  find  out  whether  the  hall  were  as  mag- 
nificent as  it  was  reported  to  be.  When  he  arrived 
he  interviewed  the  king,  and  said  :  "  Sir  !  Your 
Majesty  !  May  I  be  allowed  to  see  the  famous  hall 
that  you  have  built  ?  "  The  king  willingly  assented 
and  told  Haridatta  that  he  should  see  it  on  the 
following  morning.  Next  day  the  envoy  was  con- 
ducted to  the  hall,  and  he  was  so  dazzled  with  its 
magnificence,  that  he  could  not  make  up  his  mind 
whether  it  was  real,  or  whether  he  was  dreaming. 
So  he  took  a  nut  out  of  his  pocket  and  threw  it  on 
the  floor,  which  convinced  him  of  the  reality  of  all 
that  he  saw,  and  he  returned  home  filled  with  aston- 
ishment and  admiration. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  113 

Story  LXI 

There  was  a  certain  merchant  who  lived  in  a  village 
called  Khorasama.  His  wife's  name  was  Tejuka, 
very  good-looking,  but  frivolous  and  light-minded. 
One  day  she  went  with  some  of  her  friends  to  see  a 
religious  procession,  and  she  came  across  a  very 
handsome  man,  for  whom  she  immediately  con- 
ceived a  violent  attachment.    For — 

"At  a  wedding,  in  the  king's  palace,  in  the  house 
of  another,  a  woman  is  sure  to  get  into  mischief." 

Again,  it  has  been  said — 

"  At  home  ;  in  the  desert ;  at  a  sacrifice  ;  in  a 
pilgrimage  ;  at  a  festival ;  in  a  crowd  ;  in  a  desert  J 
in  a  town  ;  in  a  village  ;  free  to  roam  about  j  shut 
up  at  home  ;  in  the  field  ;  in  the  threshingfloor  ; 
coming  in,  going  out ;  by  day  or  by  night ;  it  mat- 
ters not  where,  a  woman  is  certain  to  go  wrong." 

So  Tejukat,  seeing  this  man,  made  signs  and  called 
him  to  her,  and  said  :  "  I  am  a  good  deal  taken  with 
you  y  but  my  husband  is  a  very  disagreeable,  ill- 
tempered  man,  and  he  won't  let  me  go  out  of  doors. 
You  come  outside  the  house,  and  throw  in  a  pot 
with  a  serpent  in  it.  The  serpent  will  escape,  and 
I  shall  cry  out  that  I  have  been  bitten.  TTien  you 
must  come  by  disguised  as  a  doctor,  and  my  hus- 
band will  call  you  in."  So  he  did  exactly  as  had 
been  arranged,  came  to  the  house  and  threw  the 

H 


114  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

pot  in.  Tejuka  cried  out  immediately  :  "  Help  !  I 
have  been  bitten  by  a  serpent  that  was  in  this 
pot."  She  made  a  great  noise  over  it,  and  her 
husband  was  very  much  alarmed.  Just  at  that 
moment  the  man  disguised  as  a  doctor  passed  by 
the  house.  TejukeL  cried  :  "  Go  and  get  the  doctor 
to  ease  my  pain  !  Go  and  get  the  wood  for  my 
funeral  pile,  for  I  shall  certainly  die."  So  her  hus- 
band, seeing  this  man  who  he  thought  was  a  doctor 
standing  at  the  door  of  the  house,  went  and  called 
him  in.  The  pretended  doctor  looked  at  the  lady's 
wound,  and  said  to  her  husband  :  "  This  is  a  very 
dangerous  bite  ;  but  you  are  fortunate  in  having 
come  across  me,  for  I  can  certainly  cure  her."  The 
merchant  implored  the  doctor  to  save  the  life  of  his 
wife.  Then  the  doctor  put  some  very  pungent 
ointment  on  Tejuka,  and  said  to  her  husband  : 
"  Don't  be  alarmed  !  the  drug  that  I  have  is  strong 
enough  to  counteract  any  poison ;  perhaps  you 
would  like  to  apply  it  yourself."  The  merchant 
proceeded  to  do  as  he  was  asked,  but  the  ointment 
made  his  eyes  water  to  such  an  extent  that  he  was 
obliged  to  give  it  up,  and  saying  to  the  doctor,  "  I 
think  you  had  better  put  this  stuff  on  yourself,"  he 
went  out  of  the  room. 

In  the  merchant's  absence  the  doctor  and  his 
sweetheart  thoroughly  enjoyed  themselves,  and  the 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  115 

crafty  Tejuka  was  soon  cured  of  the  serpent's  bite. 
The  merchant  was  quite  delighted  at  the  cure,  and 
placed  himself  and  his  house  quite  at  the  doctor's 
service.  So  the  doctor  after  this  paid  the  merchant's 
house  a  good  many  visits,  to  the  great  satisfaction 
of  the  merchant's  wife. 


Story  LXV 

In  a  town  called  Ganasthana  hved  a  devotee.  His 
name  was  Srivatsa,  and  he  was  a  follower  of  Mahes- 
vara.  One  day  he  started  for  Varanasi  with  one 
of  his  disciples,  and  on  the  road  this  disciple  saw  a 
piece  of  meat,  and  stopped  to  pick  it  up. 

He  was  seen  to  do  this  by  a  number  of  ascetics 
who  were  close  by,  so  Srivatsa  was  put  in  some- 
what of  a  difficulty.  For  they  all  came  in  a  body 
and  jeered  at  this  devotee  and  his  disciple  who  had 
made  such  a  blunder.  To  their  remarks  he  said  : 
"  Yes  !  this  is  a  disciple  of  mine,  and  it  is  quite 
true  that  he  picked  up  a  piece  of  meat ;  but 
the  truth  is,  that  he  didn't  know  it  was  a  piece  of 
meat,  or  he  would  not  have  made  this  mistake." 


ii6  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

Story  LXVI 

In  a  far  away  country  there  is  a  delightful  forest, 
remote  from  the  dwellings  of  men.  It  stretches 
far  and  wide  over  the  land,  and  the  birds  love  it. 
And  in  that  forest  there  is  a  cool  sheltered  pasture, 
through  which  a  river  flows,  and  on  its  bank  a  fig 
tree  throws  its  shade.  There  the  king  of  the  geese 
used  to  rest  with  his  flock,  wearied  with  their  day's 
wandering. 

One  day  when  the  geese  had  gone  away,  a  fowler 
came  and  spread  a  net  about  the  tree.  In  the 
evening  they  returned  in  their  wonted  fashion,  and 
were  all  caught  in  the  net.  Their  king  then,  seeing 
that  they  had  all  been  taken  prisoners,  set  his  wits 
to  work  to  dehver  them  from  the  toils.  After 
reflecting  on  the  case,  he  said — 

"  My  children  !  when  the  fowler  comes  back  in 
the  morning,  lie  perfectly  ,quiet,  and  pretend  to 
be  dead.  Then  he  will  think  you  are  really  dead, 
and  will  take  you  out  of  the  net  and  throw  you 
aside ;  after  which  jump  up,  and  fly  away  as  fast 
as  you  can." 

So  it  turned  out.  In  the  morning  the  fowler  came 
back  to  see  if  he  had  caught  the  geese.  They  all 
lay  perfectly  still,  and  he  thought  they  were  dead ; 
so  he  took  them  out  of  the  net  and  threw  them  on 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  117 

the  ground.  No  sooner  had  he  done  this  than  they 
flew  off  back  to  their  homes,  and  so  escaped  his 
clutches. 


Story  LXVII 

In  a  forest  called  Pushpakara,  lived  a  small  monkey 
whose  name  was  Vanapriya.  One  day  he  was 
walking  close  to  the  river  bank,  when  he  saw  a 
crocodile  basking  in  the  sun.  "  Friend  Crocodile," 
said  he,  "  are  you  tired  of  life  that  you  have  come 
so  close  into  land  ?  "  The  crocodile  heard  what 
the  monkey  said  and  replied :  "He  who  has  a 
situation  that  suits  him,  he  who  receives  due  wages 
for  his  services,  is  perfectly  content  with  the  place 
in  which  he  happens  to  be.    For  it  has  been  said — 

"  '  Lanka  is  altogether  made  of  gold,  yet  I  care 
nothing  for  it :  Ayodhya,  the  home  of  my  fathers, 
is  but  poor,  yet  I  delight  in  it.'  But  there  is  some- 
thing more  than  that,  for  your  acquaintance  has 
added  additional  pleasure  to  my  existence.  For 
it  is  written — 

" '  A  sacred  bathing-place  is  only  profitable 
sometimes.  But  the  mere  sight  of  a  good  man  is 
always  a  source  of  purification.*    So  now  a  piece  of 


ii8  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

luck  has  happened  to  me,  in  that  I  have  come 
across  one  who  speaks  such  kindly  words  as  you." 

"  My  dear  Crocodile,"  answered  the  monkey, 
"  from  this  day  forward  I  shall  be  entirely  devoted 
to  you,  for  your  words  are  indeed  the  words  of 
friendship.    As  it  has  been  said — 

"  '  Friendship,  in  the  opinion  of  wise  men,  is  the 
society  of  the  good.'  Therefore,"  continued  the 
monkey,  "  let  me  offer  you  such  hospitaUty  as  I 
am  capable  of."  So  saying  he  brought  the  crocodile 
some  ripe  fruit  as  sweet  as  nectar. 

So  after  this  every  day  the  monkey  used  to  bring 
his  friend  the  crocodile  plaintain  fruit,  and  the 
crocodile  took  it  home  to  his  wife.  One  day  she 
asked  him  where  this  fruit  came  from,  and  he  told 
her  the  whole  story,  exactly  as  it  all  happened.  She 
thought  to  herself,  "  This  monkey  seems  to  enjoy 
excellent  fruit,  I  wonder  what  his  ordinary  food 
is  like,"  and  so,  being  in  a  condition  which  gave  her 
a  craving  for  all  sorts  of  strange  out-of-the-way 
things,  she  said  to  her  husband :  "  I  must  have 
some  of  that  fruit  which  the  monkey  is  always 
eating :  if  you  don't  get  it  for  me  I  shall  certainly 
die."  So  off  the  crocodile  started  on  his  errand, 
and  soon  arrived  at  the  river  bank  where  he  had 
met  the  monkey  the  first  time.  The  monkey  was 
there,  and  the  crocodile  said  to  him,  "  My   dear 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  119 

friend !  Your  brother's  wife  is  very  anxious  to 
see  you ;  will  you  come  with  me  to  our  house  ?  " 
The  monkey  accepted  the  invitation,  and  without 
any  hesitation  mounted  the  crocodile's  back,  and 
they  started  on  their  journey.  On  the  way  the 
monkey  became  a  little  anxious,  and  said :  "  It 
has  occurred  to  me  how  am  I  to  find  my  way  back  ?  " 
The  crocodile  recognized  the  monkey's  difficulty, 
and  explained  carefully  to  him  the  way  home. 
The  monkey  replied,  '  My  good  crocodile  !  It  is 
of  no  use  your  telling  me  all  this,  I  am  sure  I  should 
not  recollect  it.  Besides,  I  think  my  affection  for 
you  has  something  lessened,  so  it  is  of  no  use  my 
going  home  with  you."  The  crocodile  rejoined, 
"  Well :  where  shall  I  put  you  down  ?"  "  My  dear 
friend  !  "  answered  the  monkey,  "  haven't  you 
heard  the  sa3nng :  "  My  heart  is  always  in  the  fig 
tree :  my  desire  always  for  the  sacred  fig '  ?  If 
you  know  what  that  means  you  will  take  me  back 
at  once." 

The  stupid  crocodile  at  these  words  turned  round 
and  took  the  monkey  back  to  the  river  bank,  and 
as  soon  as  they  had  got  there,  the  monkey  jumped 
off  the  crocodile's  back,  and  scrambled  up  into  the 
tree.  When  he  was  well  out  of  reach,  he  turned 
round  and  said  with  a  jeer,  "  Go  along  with  you ! 
as  long  as  I  am  up  here  I  am  out  of  your  clutches. 


120  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

Wise  men  say,  '  There  can  be  no  friendship  between 
creatures  that  live  on  land  and  those  that  live  in 
the  water.'  "  So  the  crocodile  turned  back  and 
went  sadly  home,  and  the  moral  is :  That  he  who 
has  wit  enough,  can  get  out  of  difi&culties,  whatever 
they  may  be. 


Story  LXVIII 

In  Vidyasthana,  a  Brahman  village,  lived  a  certain 
Brahman  called  Kesava.  One  day  he  was  going 
to  bathe  in  the  lake,  when  he  met  the  charming 
daughter  of  a  merchant.  He  immediately  fell  in 
love  with  her.  Soon  after  this  he  was  coming 
back  from  his  bath,  and  he  met  her  again.  She 
had  a  pitcher  of  water,  and  she  asked  him  if  he  would 
kindly  help  her  to  put  it  on  her  head.  He  gladly 
assented  and  as  he  was  helping  her  up  with  the  jug, 
he  kissed  her.  Her  father  happened  to  be  close 
by,  and  saw  this,  so  he  summoned  Kesava  for 
assaulting  his  daughter.  The  Brihman  was  placed 
in  a  diificulty,  but  he  had  a  friend  whose  name 
was  Vitarka,  and  he  hearing  what  had  happened 
went  to  the  Brahman  and  said  :  "  My  dear  fellow  ! 
Listen-  to  me;  when  you  come  before  the  court. 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  121 

mind  you  speak  very  indistinctly,' so' that  no  one 
can  understand  you."  Well,  Kesava  followed  his 
advice  and  the  judge  who  could  not  make  out  a 
word  he  said,  exclaimed :  "  I  cannot  see  that  this 
man  is  guilty  of  anything.  Indeed,  I  should  say 
he  was  a  most  respectable  person."  And  so  by 
the  help  of  Vitarka's  wit  and  friendship  he  not  only 
escaped  condemnation,  but  acquired  a  very  good 
character. 


Story  LXIX 

There  was  once  a  merchant,  whose  wife  was  named 
Vagika,  and  he  was  extremely  fond  of  her.  It  so 
happened  one  day  that  her  husband  wanted  a 
bath.  She  was  getting  it  ready  for  him,  when  all 
of  a  sudden  she  saw  one  of  her  admirers  going 
along  the  road.  So,  sa5dng  that  she  had  not  enough 
water,  she  ran  out  of  the  house,  pretending  that 
she  was  going  to  get  some  more,  and  stayed  out  a 
considerable  time  with  her  friend.  All  this  time 
her  husband  was  waiting  for  his  bath,  and  so  the 
question  for  her  was  this,  what  excuse  to  make  for 
her  lengthened  absence.  She  reflected  for  a  moment, 
and  then  with  a  great  splash  jumped  into  the  tank 


122  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

just  outside  the  house — at  the  same  time  shouting, 
"  Help !  I  am  drowning."  Her  husband  heard 
the  noise  and  the  splash,  and  thinking  to  himself, 
"  Hullo  !  that  wife  of  mine  has  tumbled  into  the 
tank,"  went  and  pulled  her  out,  and  brought  her 
into  the  house,  without  making  any  remark,  or 
asking  her  any  questions. 

At  the  conclusion  of  these  stories,  Madana  returned 
from  his  expedition,  and  was  received  by  Prabhavati 
with  every  demonstration  of  affection. 

The  Parrot  said,  very  slowly  and  solemnly — 

"  Affection  in  women  means  nothing ;  pride  in 
women  means  nothing : 

All  the  time  that  you  have  been  absent,  she  has 
been  my  friend,  and  has  been  devoted  to  me." 

Madana  heard  what  the  Parrot  said,  but  he  did 
not  pay  much  attention  to  it.  The  Parrot  smiled 
and  continued  :  "  He  who  hears  good  advice  and 
follows  it,  is  blessed  both  in  this  world  and  in  the 
next."  Madana  therefore  was  induced  to  ask  the 
Parrot  what  he  meant.  Prabhavati  at  this  felt  a 
httle  bit  anxious  as  to  what  might  come  out,  for 
it  has  been  said — 

"  The  good  are  always  bold  sustained  by  con- 
sciousness of  good. 

The  wicked  are  always  afraid,  for  their  evil  con- 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  123 

sciences  make  cowards  of  them."  So  Prabhavati 
said  to  her  husband — 

"  Sir !  your  place  has  been  well  supplied,  for 
in  this  house  dwells  a  Parrot,  who  seems  to  have 
come  direct  from  the  abode  of  the  gods,  and  who 
speaks  words  of  wisdom.  He  has  been  even  as  a 
husband  and  son  to  me." 

The  Parrot  at  these  words  felt  a  little  ashamed 
of  himself,  for  it  did  not  seem  to  him  that  he  had 
merited  such  compHments.  So  Madana  turned 
to  Prabhivati  and  said :  "  Pray,  what  were  the 
words  of  wisdom  with  which  the  Parrot  consoled 
you  ?  " 

She  replied :  "  My  lord !  a  speaker  of  truth 
may  be  found,  but  it  is  not  so  easy  to  find  a  listener, 
for  it  has  been  said — 

"  '  Men  who  say  what  is  pleasant  are  always 
welcome : 

But  those  who  tell  unpalatable  truths,  will  not 
find  an  audience. 

Women  are  unstable  5  they  have  little  or 
no  affection  for  their  husbands  ;  they  think  much 
of  themselves ;  they  are  ignorant ;  weak ;  care- 
less in  the  performance  of  their  duties.  Women 
exercise  their  powers  of  attraction,  and  then 
when  they  have  caught  a  man  they  draw  him 
out  like  a  j&sh  in  a  net.    They  are  as  changeable 


124  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

as  the  waves  of  the  sea,  continually  shifting  like 
the  evening  clouds ;  when  they  have  gained  their 
object  they  cast  a  man  aside  as  a  squeezed  out  rag. 
They  enter  a  man's  heart,  and  fill  him  with  con- 
fusion, rage,  deceit.  What  will  not  women  accom- 
plish ?  ' 

"  Now,  my  husband  !  hear  me.  After  your  depar- 
ture, for  a  time  I  kept  you  in  remembrance,  though 
there  was  separation  between  us.  Then  evil  friends 
came  by,  and  tried  to  lead  me  astray.  This  bird 
prevented  my  following  after  them,  and  held  me 
back  for  seventy  nights,  by  means  of  the  stories 
which  he  told  me.  So  I  was  prevented  from  follow- 
ing ray  desires,  and  my  designs  of  evil  were  not 
fulfilled.  From  to-day — whether  in  life  or  in  death 
— ^you,  my  husband,  shall  be  my  chief  object." 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  harangue,  Madana 
turned  to  the  Parrot  and  asked  what  in  the  world 
it  all  meant. 

The  Parrot  answered :  "  Speech  must  not  be 
uttered  hastily  by  the  wise ;  those  who  know  what 
is  right  and  proper,  must  act  accordingly.  Sir ! 
I  say  nothing  of  the  foolish,  drunkards,  women, 
persons  afflicted  with  disease,  those  in  love,  the 
weak,  the  wrathful.  The  mad,  the  careless,  the 
timid,  the  starving,  such  as  these  have  but  few 
virtues.    There  are  ten  who  know  not  the  way  of 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  125 

righteousness — the  mad,  the  careless,  the  drunkard, 
the  feeble,  the  wrathful,  the  glutton,  the  hasty, 
the  coward,  the  covetous,  the  lustful." 

"Pray  grant  Prabhivatt  pardon  for  her  short- 
comings ;  indeed  they  were  not  her  fault,  but  the 
fault  of  her  evil  companions.    For  it  is  said — 

" '  The  virtuous  fall  into  evil  ways  through 
contact  with  the  depraved. 

Even  Bhishma  stole  a  cow  under  the  influence 
of  Daryodhana. 

The  king's  daughter  was  led  astray  by  a  Vidyi- 
dhara :  but,  though  her  fault  was  plain,  she  was 
forgiven  by  her  father.'  " 

The  Parrot  then  told  Madana  the  following 
story — 

"  There  is  a  mountain  called  Malaya,  and  on  the 
top  of  it  is  Manohara,  a  city  of  the  Gandharvas. 
In  it  hved  a  certain  Madana,  a  Gandharva,  and  he 
had  a  wife  whose  name  was  Ratnivali.  Their 
daughter  was  Madanamanjari.  She  was  extremely 
beautiful  and  fascinating  and  every  one  who  saw 
her  absolutely  lost  his  senses,  whether  god  or  hero. 
It  was  quite  impossible  to  find  a  husband  for  her 
sufficiently  good-looking.  It  so  happened  one  day 
that  a  certain  Narada  came  by ;  when  he  saw  her  he 
was  so  fascinated  by  her  charms  that  he  went  off 
his  head.    After  a  time,  however,  Narada,  who  was 


126  THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT 

a  Rishi,  came  to  himself,  and  he  solemnly  cursed  her, 
in  these  words  :  '  Since  the  fire  of  passion  has  been 
kindled  in  me  at  the  sight  of  your  beauty,  you  shall 
be  the  victim  of  deceit.'  Then  her  father,  hearing 
the  curse,  bowed  to  the  ground  before  the  Rishi,  and 
said  :  '  Sir  !  show  compassion  on  my  daughter,  and 
grant  her  forgiveness  ! '  Narada  replied  :  '  She 
shall  indeed  be  deceived,  but  she  shall  not  suffer 
loss,  nor  shall  she  fail  in  gaining  a  husband.  On  the 
top  of  Mount  Meru  is  a  city  called  Vipula,  and  in  it 
dwells  the  Gandharva,  Kanaprabha.  He  shall  be 
your  daughter's  husband.'  With  these  words 
Narada  departed,  and  according  to  his  promise 
Madanamanjari  was  given  in  marriage  to  the  Gan- 
dharva. Soon  after  this  her  husband  left  her,  and 
went  on  a  journey  to  Kailasa.  She  was  inconsolable 
at  his  departure,  and  lay  full  length  on  a  stone  slab 
in  the  courtyard  of  her  home.  Here  she  was  seen 
by  a  Vidyadhara,  who  made  advances  of  love  to  her. 
She  declined  them  without  hesitation,  but  he  even- 
tually, putting  on  the  form  of  her  husband,  accom- 
plished his  object.  Before  long  her  husband 
returned,  but  it  appeared  to  him  that  she  was  not 
particularly  glad  to  see  him.  He  thought  that  there 
must  be  some  counter-attraction,  and  eventually  he 
worked  himself  up  to  such  a  state  of  jealousy,  that 
he  contemplated  putting  an  end  to  his  wife's  exist- 


THE  ENCHANTED  PARROT  127 

ence.  So  Madanamanjari,  seeing  her  end  in  view, 
went  to  the  shrine  of  the  goddess  DurgS,,  and  made 
loud  lamentation.  The  goddess  heard  her  complaints 
and  said  to  her  husband,  '  Noble  Gandharva ! 
your  wife  is  guiltless :  she  was  deceived  by  a 
Vidyadhara,  who  put  on  your  form.  Since  she 
was  ignorant  of  the  real  state  of  things,  how  could 
she  be  to  blame  ?  Besides  the  cause  of  all  this  is 
the  curse  pronounced  on  her  by  the  Rishi  Narada. 
Now  the  curse  is  worked  out,  and  since  she  is  free 
from  guilt  you  must  take  her  back.'  Hearing  the 
words  of  the  goddess,  Kanaprabha  took  his  wife 
home,  and  they  lived  happily  together. 

"  So,  Madana,"  continued  the  Parrot,  "  if  you 
have  any  confidence  in  my  words,  receive  your 
wife  kindly,  for  there  is  no  evil  in  her." 

Then  Madana,  obedient  to  the  Parrot's  wish, 
took  Prabhavatt  home,  and  his  father  Haridatta, 
rejoicing  at  his  son's  return,  made  a  great  feast. 
While  the  festival  was  proceeding,  a  rain  of  flowers 
fell  from  heaven,  and  the  Parrot — the  adviser  and 
confidant  of  Prabhavati — ^freed  from  the  curse 
which  had  compelled  him  to  wear  a  parrot's  form, 
ascended  to  the  abode  of  the  gods,  and  Madana 
and  Prabhavati  passed  the  remainder  of  their  lives 
in  peace  and  happiness. 

Butler  &  Tanner  The  Selwood  Priming  Works  Frome  and  London 


