\M3 



CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 




BOUGHT WITH THE INCOME 
OF THE SAGE ENDOWMENT 
FUND GIVEN IN 1891 BY 

HENRY WILLIAMS SAGE 



Date Due 



■MY-S- 



fr ttffi J- 



IWtM&MRAl 






<*s7> 



El 



q(fe^49gsiiy 



trtrt* 



ffi 



#UT 



rz^ngb/M 1 ^ 



JUI 




PRINTED IN U. 5. A 



CAT. NO. 23233 



OF 234.6WI13 lSr 3 rs ' ,y Ub ~» 





Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924028252546 



OTHER WORKS BY Mr. M'CRINDLE. 



ANCIENT INDIA 

As described by the Classical Authors, being a series of 
copiously annotated translations of all the Greek 
and Roman texts which relate to India. 

I. Ancient India as described by Megasthenes and Arrian. 
With an Introduction, Notes, and a Map of Ancient 
India. Bombay, 1877. 8vo . . .5s. nett. 

II. The commerce and navigation of the Erythraean Sea, being 
a translation of the Periplus Maris Erythmi, and of 
Arrian's account of the voyage of Nearkhos. Bombay, 
1879. 8vo 5s. nett. 

III. Ancient India as described by KtSsias the Knidian. Bom- 

bay, 1882. 8vo 4s. 6d. nett. 

IV. Ancient India as described by Ptolemy. With an Intro- 

duction, Map of India according to Ptolemy, and a very 
copious Index. Bombay, 1885. 8vo . . 5s. nett 



Of the above books few copies remain for sale. 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 



■ * * * In rendering the results of Dr. Schwanbeck's industry 
accessible to English readers by this translation of the collected frag- 
ments of the lost Mdika of Megasthenes, perhaps the most trustworthy 
of the Greek writers on India, Mr. M'Crindle would have performed 
a most valuable service even had he not enriched the original^ by the 
addition of copious critical notes, and a translation of Arrian s work 
on the same subject. — The Calcutta Review. 

* * * Mr. M'Crindle's translations of the accounts of Ancient India 
by Megasthenes and Arrian, is a most valuable contribution to our 
knowledge of the subject in the days when Greeks and Romans were 
ruling the world. — The Pioneer. 

* * * Mr. M'Crindle deserves the thanks of all who take an interest 
in Ancient India, and, should he be able to fulfil his promise to translate 
"the entire series of classical works relating to India," he will give an 
impetus to the study of the early civilisation of this country among 
native as well as European scholars. — The Madras Times. 

* * * He is to be congratulated on having made a very useful con- 
tribution to the popular study of Indian antiquities. — The Westminster 
Review. 

* * * To those students who have neither the learned work of Dr. 
Vincent, nor the Geographi Grceci Minores of C. Muller within reach, 
this handy volume (Megasthenes) will prove very serviceable. — The 
Academy. 

* * * The fragments of the Indika of Megasthenes, collected by 
Dr. Schwanbeck, with the first part of the Indika of Arrian, the 
Periplus Maris Erythnei, and Arrian's account of the voyage of 
Nearkhos, have been translated, in two most useful volumes, by Mr. 
J. W. M'Crindle, M.A. The Indika of Ktesias with the fifteenth 
book of Strabo is also promised, and the sections referring to India 
in Ptolemy's Geography would complete a collection of the highest 
value to Indian history. — Note, under the article India, in the new 
edition of " The Encyclopaidia Britannica." 

* The amount of patient and scholarly work which they indicate 
is of the kind that we are rather accustomed to look for from a German 
savant, and can hardly be properly appreciated by one who does not 
know by experience the difficulties of such investigations. — The Scottish 
Geographical Magazine. 

* * * What he has proposed to do has been very carefully worked 
out. His notes are of special interest. — The Jour. R. .4s. Soc. 

* * * Mr. M'Crindle has earned a solid reputation by his learned 
research on subjects connected with Ancient India, and his latest pro- 
duction, Ancient India as described by Ptolemy, will be appreciated by 
scholars and geographers. — The Scotsman, 

* * * Mr. M'Crindle, who has translated divers of the old accounts 
of Arrian, Megasthenes, and others, now comes forward to give us a 
" succinct account of Ptolemy's geographical system," to show us how 
the disguise of places named by that writer can be pierced, and to 
push etymological inquiry to somewhat dim and distant limits. He is 
entitled to credit for research, diligence, and knowledge of his subject. 
— The Saturday Review. 



ANCIENT INDIA 

ITS INVASION BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 










.-♦•♦ ****** .!T*>vili 



CE 
o 

o 

*a 

o 
yo 

O 



* I 

C o 



cr 



8 3 

5 ® 



o 



©■ 



IS 
o 



A L E X a N D E R THE G R E A T 
.[OUR N I N .; T H E D E A F H OK M O U K E P H A L O S 



THE 

INVASION OF INDIA 

BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



AS DESCRIBED BY 



ARRIAN Q • CURTIUS DIODOROS PLUTARCH 
AND JUSTIN 



BEING TRANSLATIONS OF SUCH PORTIONS OF THE WORKS OF THESE 

AND OTHER CLASSICAL AUTHORS AS DESCRIBE ALEXANDER'S 

CAMPAIGNS IN AFGHANISTAN THE PANJ.&B SINDH 

GEDROSIA AND KARMANIA 

WITH AN INTRODUCTION CONTAINING A LIFE OF ALEXANDER 

COPIOUS NOTES ILLUSTRATIONS MAPS AND INDICES 



J W M'CRINDLE M-A M-RA-S F-R-S-G-S 

LATE PRINCIPAL OF THE GOVERNMENT COLLEGE PATNA AND FELLOW OF 

THE CALCUTTA UNIVERSITY 
MEMBER OF THE GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH 



Q8tetm.ineUt 

ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE AND COMPANY 
14 PARLIAMENT STREET S-W 

MDCCCXCIII 

All rights reserzied 



A.yf3e>i 






DF 

Ms 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAGE 

List of Illustrations . . ix 

Preface . xi 

Introduction, containing a Life of Alexander . 3 

Arrian . ... 57 

Q. Curtius Rufus . . . . ,183 

Diod6ros . . 269 

Plutarch . 305 

Justin ... .321 
Appendices — 

Notes A-L/ . . 331 

Biographical Appendix . 375 

General Index . . 4 X 7 

Index of Authorities quoted or referred to 430 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



Alexander the Great Mourning for Boukeehalos 



Frontispiece 



By the Autotype Company from a French MS. in the British Museum of the 
Life of Alexander the Great, written in the fifteenth century. 



FIG. 
i. LYSI MACHOS 



2. Aristotle 

3. Seal of Darius . 

4. Alexander the Great 

5. Diodotos . 

6. Antiochos the Great 

7. euthydemos 

8. The Tyrian Herakles 

9. Eumenes . 

10. Ptolemy Soter 

11. Indian Bowman 

12. Sothytes . 



Gold coin of Lysimachos (B.C. 306- 
281), struck at Lysimachia, in the 
British Museum . .16 

From an intaglio gem, engraved on 
sard, in the British Museum . 16 

From a cylinder of chalcedony, in- 
scribed " I am Darius the great 
king," in Persian, Median, and 
Babylonian, in the Brit. Museum 29 

On a silver coin struck in Thrace by 
Lysimachos, in the Brit. Museum . 48 

On a gold stater struck in Baktria, in 
the British Museum . . 52 

On a gold coin (B.C. 222-187), m tne 
British Museum . . . -52 

On a silver Baktrian coin, in the 
British Museum . • • S3 

On a silver coin struck at Tyre (B.C. 
125), in the British Museum . 71 

Silver coin of Eumenes I. (b.c. 263- 
241), struck at Pergamos, in the 
British Museum ... 120 

On a silver coin (B.C. 306-284), in the 
British Museum . . .151 

From a coin of Chandragupta II. 
(a.d. 395-415), in the Brit. Mus . 210 

From a silver coin, in the Brit. Mus. 280 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



FIG. 

13. Greek Warship 

14. Seleucus Nicator 

15. eukratides 

16. Antimachos 

17. Agathokles 

18. Heliokles 

19. Apollodotos 

20. As'oka Inscription . 

21. Antigonos Gonatas . 

22. Antigonos Doson 

23. Antiochos II. . 

24. Demetrios Poliorketes . 

25. Ptolemy III. 



From a silver coin of Sidon, in the 
British Museum . . . 3 ! ° 

Obverse of a silver coin struck in 
Pergamos, in the British Museum 327 

On a silver Baktrian coin, in the 
British Museum .... 344 

On a silver Baktrian coin, in the 
British Museum .... 370 

Silver coin of Agathokles, in the 
British Museum . . 371 

On a silver Baktrian coin, in the 

British Museum . . . -371 

On a silver Baktrian coin, in the 

British Museum 372 

Reduced from an impression of the 
Kalsi Edict by Dr. James Burgess, 
CLE 373 

Silver coin of Antigonos Gonatas 

(B.C. 277-239), in the Brit. Mus. . 376 
Silver coin of Antigonos Doson (B.C. 

229-220), in the British Museum . 377 
On a silver coin (B.C. 261-246), in the 

British Museum . . . 377 

Silver coin of Demetrios Poliorketes 

(B.C. 294-288), in the Brit. Mus. . 383 
On a gold coin (B.C. 247-222), in the 

British Museum . . . 403 



MAPS 



Map of Alexander's Route in the Panjab . . F,vht~~ s~ 

Map of the Route taken by Alexander in his Asiatic Expedition 43:: 



PREFACE 

En inventant l'histoire, la Grece inventa le jugement 
du monde, et, dans ce jugement, l'arrft de la Grece fut 
sans appel. A celui dont la Grece n'a pas parle, l'oubli, 
c'est-a-dire le neant. A celui dont la Grece se souvient, 
la gloire, c'est-a-dire la vie. — Discours de M. Ernest 
Renan du J Mai 1892. 

This work is the fifth of a series which may be entitled 
Ancient India as described by the Classical Writers, since 
it was projected to supply annotated translations of all 
the accounts of India which have descended to us from 
classical antiquity. The volumes which have already 
appeared contain the fragments of the Indika of Ktesias 
the Knidian, and of the Indika of Megasthenes, the Indika 
of Arrian, the Periplous of the Erythraian Sea by an un- 
known author, and- Ptolemy's Geography of India and the 
other countries of Eastern Asia. A sixth work containing 
translations of the chapters in Strabo's Geography which 
describe India and Ariana, is in preparation, and will 
complete the series. I cannot at present say whether 
this work will appear as a separate publication, or is to be 
included in a volume containing new and revised editions 
of the three Indikas mentioned above, which are now 
nearly out of print as are also the other two works of the 
series. 



xii PREFACE 

In the present work I have translated and annotated 
all the earliest and most authentic records which have 
been preserved of the Macedonian invasion of India under 
Alexander the Great. The notes do not touch on points 
either of grammar or of textual criticism, but are mainly 
designed to illustrate the statements advanced in the 
narratives. When short, they accompany the text as 
footnotes, and when of such a length as would too much 
encumber the pages, they have been placed together in 
an appendix by themselves. Such notes again as refer to 
persons have been placed, whether short or long, in a second 
appendix, which I have designated a Biographical Appendix. 

In preparing the translations and notes I have consulted 
a great many works, of which the following may be 
specified as those which I found most useful : — 

Droysen's GescJiichte Alexanders des grossen. 

Williams's Life of Alexander. 

Sainte- Croix's Examen Critique des Anciens Historiens 

dAlexandre le Grand. 
C. Muller's collection of the remaining fragments of the 

Historians of Alexander the Great. 
Thirlwall's History of Greece, vols. vi. and vii. 
Grote's History of Greece, vol. xii. 
Duncker's History of Antiquity, vol. iv., which treats of 

India exclusively. 
Talboys Wheeler's History of India. 
Le Clerc's Criticism upon Curtius, prefixed to Rooke's 

Translation of Arrian's Anabasis. 
Lassen's Indischc Alterthumskiindc. 

General Sir A. Cunningham's Geography of Ancient India. 
V. de Saint-Martin's Etude sin- la Geographic Grccque et 

Latiuc dc Fliide, and his Ah'moirc Analytique sur la 

carte de I' Ask Ccntralc et dc I'Inde. 



PREFACE xiii 

Rennell's Memoir of a Map of Hindoostan. 

Bunbury's History of Ancient Geography. 

Abbott's Gradus ad Aornon. 

Journal Asiatique. Serie VIII. 

Journal of t/ie Royal Asiatic Society. New series. 

Mahaffy's Alexander's Empire and his Greek Life and 

Thought from the Age of Alexander to the Roman 

Conquest. 
Professor Freeman's Essay on Alexander the Great. 
General Chesney's Lecture on the Indian Campaign of 

A lexander. 
Wesseling's Latin Translation of Dioddros. 
Translations of Curtius by Digby, Pratt, and Vaugelas 

respectively. 
The Notes to the Elzevir edition of Curtius. 
Chinnock's Translation of Arrian's Anabasis of Alexander 

and Notes thereto. 
Chaussard's Translation of Arrian into French. 
Moberly's Alexander the Great i?i the Punjaub, from 

Arrian. Book V. 
Burton's Sindh. 

Weber's Die Griechen in Indien. 
Dr. Bellew's Ethnography of Afghanistan. 
Sir W. W. Hunter's and Professor Max Miiller's Works 

on India. 

The translations are strictly literal, but though such 
will, I trust, be found to give, without crudeness of diction, 
a faithful reflex not only of the sense, but also of the 
spirit, force, fluency, and perspicuity of the original com- 
positions. I have at all events spared no pains to 
combine in the translations the two merits of being at 
once literal and idiomatic in expression. 

In translating Arrian I adopted the text of Sintenis 



xiv PREFACE 

(2nd edition, Berlin, 1863); and with regard to Curtius, 
I found the work entitled Alexander in India, edited by 
Heitland and Raven, very serviceable, containing, as it 
does, exactly that portion of Curtius which it was my 
purpose to translate. Both the works referred to contain 
valuable prolegomena and notes, to which I must here 
acknowledge my obligations. 

The Introduction consists of two parts. In the first, 
I have pointed out the sources whence our knowledge 
of the history of Alexander has been derived, and dis- 
cussed their title to credibility ; while in the second, I 
have sketched Alexander's career, and added a very brief 
summary of the events that followed his death till the 
wars for the division of his empire were finally composed. 

In the transcription of Greek proper names I have 
followed as hitherto the method introduced by Grote, 
which scholars have now generally adopted. A vindica- 
tion of the method which, to my thinking, is unanswerable, 
has appeared in the preface to Professor Freeman's History 
of Sicily, a work which the author unfortunately has not 
lived to complete. 

The most noticeable change resulting from this method 
is-the substitution of K for C in the spelling of Greek 
names. This should be borne in mind by those who may 
have occasion to consult either the Biographical Appendix 
or the General Index. I may further note that in tran- 
scribing Sanskrit or other Indian names I have in all 
cases used the circumflex to distinguish the long a, which 
is sounded as a in fall, from the short a, which is sounded 
as u in dumb. In Sanskrit and its derivative dialects this 
short vowel ( ^ ) is never written unless it begin a word, 
for it is supposed to be inherent in every consonant. The 
letter s' with the acute accent represents the palatal 
sibilant ( ST ) which is sounded like sh. 



PREFACE xv 

Two maps accompany the work, the larger of which 
shows the entire line of the route which Alexander 
followed in the course of his Asiatic expedition, while the 
smaller shows more distinctly that part of his route which 
lay through the northern parts of Afghanistan and the 
Country of the Five Rivers. For both I consulted the 
latest and most authoritative maps, both British and 
German, in which these routes have been laid down, and 
I found them in pretty close agreement, except with 
regard to that part of the route which is traced in the 
smaller map. Here I have generally followed the 
sketch map of the Panjab which is given in General 
Cunningham's Ancient Geography of India, but have 
ventured to differ from him with regard to the position 
of the Rock Aornos, of Alexander's bridge over the Indus, 
of Sangala, and of the Oxydrakai, whom I have placed, 
as in Sir E. H. Bunbury's map, to the south of the Malloi. 

The frontispiece to the volume, reproduced from a 
fifteenth-century French MS. of the Life of Alexander, 
may, it is hoped, appeal to many as a quaint rendering of 
a widely " popular " incident. 

I cannot conclude without expressing my great 
obligations to Mr. Archibald Constable, by whose firm 
this work is published, for all the trouble he has taken 
in connection with its passage through the press, and 
especially with the preparation of the illustrations. I 
have also to thank Dr. Burgess for supplying the photo- 
graph from which the As'oka inscription on page 373 
has been reproduced, and for sundry valuable suggestions 
besides. J. W. M'C. 



9 Westhall Gardens, 
Edinburgh, 1892. 



INTRODUCTION 



"Of the life of Alexander we have five consecutive narratives, besides 
numerous allusions and fragments scattered up and down various Greek and 
Latin writers. . . . Unluckily, among all the five there is not a single con- 
temporary chronicler. . . . The value of all, it is clear, must depend upon 
the faithfulness with which they represent the earlier writings which they 
had before them, and upon the amount of critical power which they may have 
brought to bear upon their examination. Unluckily again, among all the five, 
one only has any claim to the name of a critic. Arrian alone seems to have 
had at once the will and the power to exercise a discreet judgment upon the 
statements of those who went before him. Diodoros we believe to be per- 
fectly honest, but he is, at the same time, impenetrably stupid. Plutarch, 
as he himself tells us, does not write history, but lives ; his object is rather 
to gather anecdotes, to point a moral, than to give a formal narrative of 
political and military events. Justin is a feeble and careless epitomizer. 
Quintus Curtius is, in our eyes, little better than a romance writer ; he is the 
only one of the five whom we should suspect of any wilful departure from the 
truth." — From Historical Essays, by Professor Freeman, 2d series, third 
edition, pp. 183, 184. 



INTRODUCTION 

The invasion of India by Alexander the Great, like the 
first voyage of Columbus to America, was the means of 
opening up a new world to the knowledge of mankind. 
Before the great conqueror visited that remote and 
sequestered country, which was then thought to lie at 
the utmost ends of the earth, nothing was known regard- 
ing it beyond a few vague particulars mentioned by 
Herodotos, and such grains of truth as could be sifted 
from the mass of fictions which formed the staple of the 
treatise on India written by Ktesias of Knidos. A com- 
parison of this work with the Indika of Megasthenes, 
which was written after the invasion, will show how 
entirely all real knowledge of the country was due to that 
event. It may even, we think, be asserted that had that 
invasion not taken place, the knowledge of India among 
the nations of the West would not have advanced much 
beyond where Ktesias left it, until the maritime passage 
to the East by the Cape of Good Hope had been dis- 
covered. 

It was early in the year 326 B.C. that Alexander, fresh 
from the conquest of the fierce tribes of northern Afghan- 
istan, led his army over into the plains of India by a 
bridge 6f boats, with which he had spanned the Indus a 
little below its junction with the Kabul river. 1 He remained 
in the country not more than twenty months all told, yet 

1 With the exception of Alexander, have sprung from provinces towards 
all the great conquerors who have Tartary and Northern Persia, 
crossed the Indus to invade India 



4 INTRODUCTION 

in that brief space he reduced the Panjab as far as the 
Satlej, and the whole of the spacious valley of the lower 
Indus, downwards to the ocean itself. He would even 
have penetrated to the Ganges had his army consented to 
follow him, and, in the opinion of Sandrokottos, would 
have succeeded in adding to his empire the vast regions 
through which that river flows. The rapidity with which 
he achieved his actual conquests in the country appears 
all the more surprising when we take into account that 
at every stage of his advance he encountered a most 
determined resistance. The people were not only of a 
most martial temperament, but were at the same time 
inured to arms ; and had they but been united and led 
by such a capable commander as Pdros, the Macedonian 
army was doomed to utter destruction. Alexander, with 
all his matchless strategy, could not have averted such a 
catastrophe ; for what is the record of his Indian campaigns ? 
We find that the toughest of all his battles was that which 
he fought on the banks of the Hydaspes against Poros ; 
that he had hot work in overcoming the resistance of the 
Kathaians before the walls of Sangala ; that he was 
wounded near to death in his assault upon the Mallian 
stronghold ; and that in the valley of the Indus he could 
only overpower the opposition instigated by the Brahmans 
by means of wholesale massacres and executions. It may 
hence be safely inferred that if Alexander had found India 
united in arms to withstand his aggression, the star of his 
good fortune would have culminated with his passage of 
the Indus. But he found, on the contrary, the politicar c on- 
dition of the country when he entered it eminently favour- 
able to his designs. The regions of the Indus and its 
great tributary streams were then divided into separate 
states— some under kingly and others under republican 
governments, but all alike prevented by their mutual 
jealousies and feuds from acting in concert against a 
common enemy, and therefore all the more easy to over- 
come. Alexander, in pursuance of his usual policy, sought 
to secure the permanence of his Indian conquests 



INTRODUCTION 5 

by founding cities, 1 which he strongly fortified and 
garrisoned with large bodies of troops to overawe and 
hold in subjection the tribes in their neighbourhood. 
The system of government also which he established was 
the same as that which he had provided for his other 
subject provinces, the civil administration being entrusted 
to native chiefs, while the executive and military authority 
was wielded by Macedonian officers. 

The Asiatic nations in general submissively acquiesced 
in the new order of things, and after a time found no 
reason to regret the old order which it had superseded. 
Under their Hellenic masters they enjoyed a greater 
measure of freedom than they had ever before known ; 
commerce was promoted, wealth increased, the administra- 
tion of justice improved, and altogether they reached a 
higher level of culture, both intellectual and moral, than 
they could possibly have attained under a continuance of 
Persian supremacy. 

India did not participate to any great extent in these 
advantages. Her people were too proud and warlike to 
brook long the burden and reproach of foreign thraldom, 
and within a few years after the Conqueror's death they 
completely freed themselves from the yoke he imposed, 
and were thereafter ruled by their native princes. The 
Greek occupation having thus proved so transient, had 
little more effect in shaping the future course of the 
national destinies than a casual raid of Scottish borderers 
into Cumberland in the old days could have had in shaping 
the general course of English history. 2 

1 According to Plutarch, seventy happened had his invasion been as 

Asiatic cities at the least owed their mythical as the Indian expeditions of 

origin to Alexander. Of those, forty Dionysos and Herakles. Nor do I 

can still be traced. Grote thinks the by any means overlook the effects 

number is probably exaggerated, and produced by Greek ideas on the Indian 

disparages their importance. mind — effects which can be traced in 

* In saying this, I do not forget a variety of spheres, such as religion, 

that the Grasco-Baktrian kings at one poetry, philosophy, science, architec- 

time extended their sway in India ture, and the plastic arts. On this 

even far beyond the parts conquered subject Professor A. Weber read a 

by Alexander ; but this cannot be very learned paper, entitled "Die 

regarded as having resulted from Griechen in Indien," before the 

his invasion. It might have equally Prussian Academy of Sciences in July 



6 INTRODUCTION 

By this disruption of her relations with the rest of 
Alexander's empire, India fell back into her former isola- 
tion from all the outside world, and for more than fifteen 
or sixteen centuries afterwards the western nations knew 
as little of her internal condition as they knew till lately 
of the interior of the Dark Continent. The invasion was, 
however, by no means fruitless of some good results. As 
has been already indicated, it drew aside the veil which 
had till then shrouded India from the observation of the 
rest of the world, and it thus widened the horizon of 
knowledge. It is fortunate that what then became known 
of India was not left for its preservation at the mercy of 
mere oral tradition, but was committed to the safer custody 
of writing. Not a few of Alexander's officers and com- 
panions were men of high attainments in literature and 
science, and some of their number composed memoirs of 
his wars, in the course of which they recorded their im- 
pressions of India and the races by which they found it 
inhabited. 1 These reports, even in the fragmentary state 
in which they have come down to us, have proved of inestim- 
able value to scholars engaged in the investigation of Indian 
antiquity — a task which the sad deficiency of Sanskrit 
literature in history and chronology has rendered one of 
no ordinary difficulty. Strabo, we must however note, 
stigmatized the authors referred to as being in general a 
set of liars, of whom only a few managed now and then 
to stammer out some words of truth. This sweeping 
censure is, however, a most egregious calumny. It may 
indeed be admitted that their descriptions are not uni- 

1890. It is a paper which well deserves included a description of India, that 

to be translated into our language. while the army of Alexander took 

Scholars now rather incline to believe but a very hasty view of everything 

that, whatever may be the exact de- (in India), Alexander himself took a 

gree of the indebtedness of India to more exact one, causing the whole 

Greece, the ancient civilization of country to be described by men well 

India was much less original and self- acquainted with it. This description, 

contained than it was at one time Patrokles says, was put into his 

supposed o be. hands by Xenoklfis the Treasurer. 

m if, ok les /, wh ° held on important On this subject Humboldt thus 

command m the East under Seleukos writes : " The Macedonian campaign, 

^ in 1 T A " tl0c ' 10S , . L > «'hich opened so large and beautiful 

stated, in a work (now lost) which a portion of the earth to the influence 



INTRODUCTION 7 

formly free from error or exaggeration, and may even be 
tainted by some intermixture of fiction, but on the whole 
they wrote in good faith — a fact which even Strabo him- 
self practically admits by frequently citing their authority 
for his statements. If one or two of them are to some 
extent liable to the censure, it must be remembered that 
Ptolemy, Aristoboulos, Nearchos, Megasthenes, and others 
of them, are writers of unimpeachable veracity. 

It is to be regretted that the works in which these 
writers recorded their Indian experiences have all, without 
exception, perished. We know, however, the main sub- 
stance of their contents from the histories of Alexander, 
written several centuries after his death by the authors 
we have here translated, as well as from Strabo, Pliny, 
Ailianos, Athenaios, Orosius, and others. 

The following is a list of the writers on India who 
visited the country either with Alexander, or not many 
years after his death, or who were at least his con- 
temporaries : — 

1. Ptolemy, the son of Lagos, who became king of 

Egypt. 

2. Aristoboulos of Potidaia, or, as it was called after- 

wards, Kassandreia. 

3. Nearchos, a Kretan by birth, but settled at Amphi- 

polis, admiral of the fleet. 

4. Onesikritos of Astypalaia, or, as some say, of 

Aegina, pilot of the fleet. 

5. Eumenes of Kardia, Alexander's secretary, who kept 

the Ephemerides or Court Journal. His country- 
man, Hieronymos, in his work on Alexander's 
successors, made a few references to the campaigns 
of the Conqueror. 

6. Chares of Mitylene, wrote anecdotes of Alexander's 

private life. 

of one sole highly -gifted race, may rounded himself with men learned in 
therefore certainly be regarded in the all departments of science, as natural- 
strictest sense of the word as a scien- ists, geometricians, historians, philo- 
tific expedition, and, moreover, as the sophers, and artists." 
first in which a conqueror had sur- 



8 INTRODUCTION 

7. Kallisthenes of Olynthos, Aristotle's kinsman, author 

of an account of Alexander's Asiatic expedition. 

8. Kleitarchos (Clitarchus), son of Deindn of Rhodes, 

author of a life of Alexander. 

9. Androsthenes of Thasos, a naval officer, author of 

a Paraplous. 

10. Polykleitos of Larissa, author of a history of 

Alexander, full of geographical details. 

1 1 . Kyrsilos of Pharsalos, who wrote of the exploits of 

Alexander. 

12. Anaximenes of Lampsakos, author of a history of 

Alexander. 

13. Diognetos, who, with Baiton, measured and recorded 

the distances of Alexander's marches. 

14. Archelaos, a geographer, supposed to have accom- 

panied Alexander's expedition. 

1 5 . Amyntas, author of a work on Alexander's Stathmoi, 

i.e. stages or halting-places. 

16. Patrokles, a writer on geography. 

17. Megasthen£s, friend of Seleukos Nikator, and his 

ambassador at the Court of Sandrokottos, king 
of Palibothra, composed an Indika. 

18. Delmachos, ambassador at the same court in the 

days of the son and successor of Sandrokottos, 
author of a work on India in two books. 

19. Diodotos of Erythrai, who, like Eumenes, kept 

Alexander's Court Journal, and may possibly 
have been in India. 

Five consecutive narratives of Alexander's Indian 
campaigns, compiled several centuries after his death from 
the works of the writers enumerated, who were either 
witnesses of the events they described, or living at the 
time of their occurrence, have descended to our times, and 
are respectively contained in the following productions : — 

1. The Anabasis of Alexander, by Arrian of Niko- 
medeia. 



INTRODUCTION 9 

2. The History of Alexander the Great, by Quintus 

Curtius Rufus. 

3. The Life of Alexander, in Plutarch's Parallel Lives. 

4. The History of Diodoros the Sicilian. 

5. The Book of Macedonian History, compiled from 

the Universal History of Trogus Pompeius, by 
Justinus Frontinus. 

Arrian 

Arrian, who is universally allowed to be by far the best 
of all Alexander's historians, was at once a philosopher, 
a statesman, a military commander, an expert in the 
tactics of war, and an accomplished writer. He was 
born towards the end of the first century of our aera at 
Nikomedeia (now Ismiknid or Ismid), the capital of 
Bithynia, situated near the head of a deep bay at the 
south-eastern end of the Propontis or Sea of Marmora. 
He became a disciple of the Stoic philosopher Epiktetos 
(much in the same way as Xenophon attached himself to 
Sokrates), and gave to the world an abstract of his 
master's lectures, together with an Encheiridion or manual 
of his philosophy — a work which was long and widely 
popular. Under the Emperor Hadrian he was appointed 
in A.D. 132 prefect of Kappadokia. He had not long 
filled this office when a large body of wild Alan horsemen 
made one of their formidable raids into his province. 
They had hitherto proved irresistible, but on this occasion 
they were completely foiled by the skilful strategy and 
tactics of Arrian, who expelled them from his borders before 
they had secured any plunder. In Rome he was preferred 
to various high offices, and under Antoninus Pius was raised 
tcrthe consulship. In his later years he retired to his 
native city, where he occupied himself in composing 
treatises on a considerable variety of subjects, but chiefly 
on history and geography. He died at an advanced age 
in the reign of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius. 

His account of Alexander's Asiatic expedition was 



io INTRODUCTION 

followed by a treatise on India called the Indika. The 
first part of this work, which gives a description of India 
and its people, was based chiefly on the Indika of Megas- 
thenes ; and the second part, which narrates the famous 
voyage of Nearchos from the mouth of the Indus to the 
head of the Persian Gulf, was based on a journal kept by 
Nearchos himself. The work is but a supplement to his 
history. He speaks himself with noble pride of this great 
work. " This I do assert," he says, " that this historical 
record of Alexander's deeds is, and has been from my 
youth up, in place to me of native land, family, and 
honours of state ; and so I do not regard myself as un- 
worthy to take rank among the foremost writers in the 
Greek language, if Alexander be forsooth among the fore- 
most in arms." " Quel delire de l'amour propre ! " here 
exclaims Sainte-Croix. His merits as an author are thus 
well stated by a writer in Smith's Classical Dictionary: 
" This great work (the A nabasis) reminds the reader of 
Xenophon's Anabasis, not only by its title, but also by the 
ease and clearness of its style. . . . Great as his merits 
thus are as an historian, they are yet surpassed by his 
excellences as an historical critic. His Anabasis is based 
upon the most trustworthy historians among the contem- 
poraries of Alexander. . . . One of the great merits of 
the work is the clearness and distinctness with which he 
describes all military movements and operations, the 
drawing up of the armies for battle, and the conduct of 
battles and sieges." 



Q. Curtius Rufus 

Nothing is known with any certainty respecting either 
the life of this historian or the time at which he lived. 
Niebuhr makes him contemporary with Septimius Severus, 
but most critics with Vespasian. Zumpt again, who, like 
some other eminent scholars, identifies him with the 
rhetorician Q. Curtius Rufus, of whom Suetonius wrote a 



INTRODUCTION u 

life now lost, places him as early as Augustus. 1 The 
style in which his history is written certainly shows 
him to have been a consummate master of rhetoric. He 
was particularly given to adorning his narrative with 
speeches and public harangues, and these, as Zumpt 
observes, are marked with a degree of power and effec- 
tiveness which scarcely anything in that species of writing 
can surpass. It may also be said that his style for 
elegance does not fall much short of the perfection of 
Cicero himself. It has of course its faults, and in these 
can be traced the incipient degeneracy of the Latin 
language, such as the introduction of poetical diction into 
prose, the ambition of expressing everything pointedly 
and strikingly, not to mention certain deviations from 
strict grammatical propriety. 

The materials of his narrative were drawn chiefly from 
Ptolemy, who accompanied Alexander into India, from 
Kleitarchos their contemporary, and from Timagenes, who 
flourished in the reign of Augustus, and wrote an excel- 
lent history of Alexander and his successors. While the 
sources whence he derived his information were thus good 
on the whole, he was himself deficient in the knowledge 
of military tactics, geography, chronology, astronomy, and 
especially in historical criticism, and he is therefore as an 
historical authority far inferior to Arrian. But in perus- 
ing his " pictured pages " the reader takes but little note 
of his errors and inconsistencies, being fascinated with his 
graceful and glowing narrative, interspersed as it is with 
brilliant orations, sage maxims, sound moral reflections, 
vivid descriptions of life and manners, and beautiful 
estimates of character. It is not surprising that with 
such merits Curtius has been one of the most popular of 
the classical authors. In spite of all his sins, for which 
he has so often been pilloried by the censors of literary 
morals, his history of Alexander has been the delight and 

1 The editors of Alexander in to 54. They add that the Latin of 

India, however, say that this rheto- Curtius agrees well with this view, 

rician must have flourished early under which would place him between Vel- 

Claudius, who reigned from a.d. 41 leius and Petronius. 



I2 INTRODUCTION 

admiration of not a few of the greatest of European 
scholars. He seems to have taken Livy as his model, as 
Arrian took Xenophon for his. His work consisted 
originally of ten books, but the first two are lost, and in 
some of the others considerable gaps occur. The French 
translation of Curtius by Vaugelas, who devoted thirty 
years of his life to the task, is so remarkable for its 
elegance that it has been pronounced to be as inimitable 
as Alexander himself was invincible. It is not, however, 
a very close version. 

Plutarch 

There are but few works in the wide circle of literature 
which have afforded so much instruction and entertain- 
ment to the world as Plutarch's Parallel Lives of tlie 
Famous Men of Greece and Rome. These Lives, which 
are forty-six in number, are arranged in pairs, and each 
pair contains the life of a Greek and a Roman, followed, 
though not always, by a comparison drawn between the 
two. Alexander the Great and Caesar are ranked to- 
gether, but no comparison follows. In his introduction to 
the life of the former, Plutarch explains his method as a 
biographer. " We do not," he says, " give the actions in 
full detail and with a scrupulous exactness, but rather in a 
short summary, since we are not writing histories, but 
lives. It is not always in the most distinguished achieve- 
ments that men's vices or virtues may be best discerned, 
but often an action of but little note — a short saying or a 
jest — may mark a person's real character more than the 
greatest sieges or the most important battles." His Lives, 
therefore, while useful to the writer of history, must be 
used with care, since they are not intended as materials 
for history. His narrative of Alexander's progress through 
India has one or two passages which show this indifference 
to historical accuracy, as when, for instance, he states that 
the soldiers of Alexander refused to pass the Ganges when 
they saw the opposite bank covered with the army of the 



INTRODUCTION 13 

King of the Praisians. 1 His account of the battle with 
P6ros is, however, excellent, and all the more interesting, 
because, as he tells us, he obtained the particulars from 
Alexander's own letters. 2 

Plutarch was a native of Chairdneia, a town in Boiotia. 
The date of his birth is unknown, but may be fixed 
towards the middle of the first century of our aera. He 
visited Italy, and lectured on philosophy in some of its 
cities. For some time he lived in Rome, where, it is said, 
but on doubtful authority, that he was promoted to high 
offices of state, and became tutor to the Emperor Trajan. 
The later years of his life he spent at Chaironeia, where 
he discharged various magisterial offices and held a priest- 
hood. The date of his death, like that of his birth, is 
unknown, but it is clear that he lived to an advanced age. 
Besides the Lives, he published other writings, mostly 
essays, having some resemblance to those of Bacon. 
They are sixty in number, and are called collectively 
Moralia, though some of them are of an historical char- 
acter. Two of them are orations About the Fortune or 
Virtue of Alexander. His style is somewhat difficult, at 
times cumbrous and involved, and somewhat deficient in 
that grace and perspicuity for which the works of the 
Attic writers are noted. His writings are all the more 
valuable from their supplying a deficiency of the Greek 
historians, whose works are filled with the records of war 
and politics, while giving us but little insight into men's 
private lives and their social surroundings. 



DlODOROS THE SICILIAN 

Diodoros was born at Agyrium, a city in the interior 
of Sicily, and was a contemporary of Julius Caesar and 
the Emperor Augustus. It was the great ambition of his 

1 The author of the Periplous of 2 Sainte-Croix and Professor Free- 

the Erythraian Sea also conducts man both express strong doubts of 

Alexander to the Ganges. So too the authenticity of Alexander's letters 

does Lucan — Pharsalia, x. 33. quoted by several writers. 



i 4 INTRODUCTION 

life to write an universal history, and having this in view 
he travelled over a great part of Europe and Asia in 
order to acquire a more accurate knowledge of countries 
and nations than could be obtained from merely reading 
books. In Rome, where a far greater number of the 
ancient documents which he required to consult had been 
collected than were to be found elsewhere, he resided for 
a considerable time. He spent thirty years in the com- 
position of his work, to which he gave the name of 
BibliotMke, which indicated that it formed quite a library 
in itself, embracing, as it did, the history of all ages and 
all countries. It consisted of forty books, which he 
divided into three great sections : ist, the mythical 
period previous to the Trojan war ; 2d, the period thence 
to the death of Alexander the Great ; 3d, the period from 
Alexander to the beginning of Caesar's Gallic wars. 
Considerable portions of the BibliotMke are lost, but all 
the books relating to the period with which we are 
concerned are still extant. 

Diodoros constructed his narrative upon the plan of 
annals, placing the events of each year side by side with- 
out regard to their intrinsic connection. The value of 
the work is greatly impaired by the author's evident want 
of critical discernment ; he mixes up history with fiction, 
shows frequently that he has misunderstood his authorities, 
and advances statements which are mutually contra- 
dictory. His style is, however, pleasing, having the 
merits of simplicity and clearness. In his second book 
he gives' a description of India epitomized from Megas- 
thenes. His account of Alexander's career in India 
records some interesting particulars of which we should 
otherwise have remained ignorant. He seems to have 
drawn largely from the same sources as Curtius. 

JUSTINUS FRONTINUS 

Justin, in the preface to his work entitled Be Historiis 
Philippicis, informs us that it was " a kind of anthology " 



INTRODUCTION 15 

— velutiflorum corpusculum — extracted from the forty-four 
volumes published by Pompeius Trogus on Philippic {i.e. 
Macedonian) history. As these volumes included histories 
of nearly all the countries with which the Macedonian 
sovereigns had transactions, they embraced such a very 
wide field that they were regarded as a cyclopaedia of 
general history. Justin remarks that while many authors 
regard it as an arduous task to write no more than the 
history of one king or one state, we cannot but think 
that Pompeius had the daring of Hercules in attacking 
the whole world, seeing that in his books are contained 
the res gestae of all ages, kings, nations, and peoples. 
He then states that he had occupied his leisure while in 
Rome by selecting those passages of Trogus which seemed 
most worthy of being generally known, and passing over 
such as he took to be neither particularly interesting nor 
instructive. He has been much, but unjustly, blamed for 
his omissions, seeing that his only object in writing was 
to compile a work of elegant historical extracts. By so 
doing he has rescued from oblivion many facts not else- 
where recorded. From the extracts relating to India we 
gather more information about Sandrokottos (Chandra- 
gupta) than from any other classical source. Trogus Pom- 
peius belonged, we know, to the age of Augustus, but it is 
uncertain when Justin lived. As the earliest writer by 
whom he is mentioned is St. Jerome, his date cannot be 
later than the beginning of the fifth century of our aera. 



The Life of Alexander the Great 

Alexander III., King of Macedonia, surnamed the 
Great, was born at Pella in the year 356 B.C. He was 
the son of Philip II. and Olympias, who belonged to 
the royal race of Epeiros, which claimed to be descended 
from Achilles, the hero of the Iliad. The education of 
the prince was in the outset entrusted to Lysimachos, 
an Akarnanian, and to his mother's kinsman Leonidas, 



i6 



INTRODUCTION 



a man of an austere character, who inured his pupil to 
Spartan -like habits of hard exercise and simple fare. 
In his thirteenth year he was placed under the immediate 
tuition of Aristotle, who acquired a life -long influence 
over the mind and character of his pupil. It may 




Fig. i. — Lysimachos. 



Fig. i:. — Aristotle. 



be supposed that the eager love of discovery which 
conspicuously distinguished Alexander from ordinary 
conquerors was in a great measure inspired and stimulated 
by the precepts of his master. In his sixteenth year he 
was entrusted, during his father's absence on a foreign 
expedition, with the regency of Macedonia ; and two 
years later, at the battle of Chaironeia, which was won 
chiefly through his impetuous valour, he displayed for 
the first time his incomparable genius for war. This 
victory made the Macedonian King supreme in Greece, 
and at a convention which met soon afterwards at his 
summons, and which was attended by deputies from all 
the Grecian states except Sparta, he was appointed to 
command the national forces and to conduct an expedition 
against Persia to avenge the invasions of Mardonios and 
Xerxes. He was actively engaged in preparing for this 
great contest when he fell by the hand of an assassin. 
Alexander succeeded (336 B.C.) not only to his sovereignty, 
but also to his supremacy in the affairs of Greece. He 
found himself, immediately on his accession, beset on all 
sides with most formidable opponents. Attalos, who 
was in Asia with a considerable force under his command, 
aspired to the throne ; the Greeks, instigated by the 
passionate eloquence of Demosthenes, attempted to liberate 



INTRODUCTION , 17 

themselves from Macedonian dictation, and the barbarians 
of the north threatened his hereditary dominions with 
invasion. The youthful monarch was equal to the emerg- 
ency. He at once seized Attalos and put him to death. 
Then suddenly marching southwards, he suppressed by 
skilful diplomacy the incipient rebellion of the Greek 
states. In the next place he turned his arms northwards, 
and, after much severe fighting, subjugated the barbarous 
tribes which lay between the frontiers of his kingdom 
and the Danube. Finally, he quelled in blood and 
desolation the revolt of Thebes, which had been prompted 
by a false rumour of his death. Having thus in a single 
year made himself a more powerful monarch than his 
father had ever been, he directed all his energies to 
complete the arrangements for the Persian expedition. 
The whole force which he collected for this purpose 
amounted to little more than 30,000 foot and 4500 
horse. 

The empire which this comparatively insignificant 
force was destined to attack and overthrow was the 
greatest which the world had as yet seen, and had already 
subsisted for two hundred years. It had been founded 
by Cyrus the Great, and extended by his successors till 
it embraced all Asia from the shores of the Aegean and 
the Levant to the regions of the Jaxartes and the Indus. 
It was divided by the great belt of desert, which stretches 
almost continuously from the Persian Gulf to the Sea 
of Aral, into two great sections which differed widely 
both in their physical aspect and the character of their 
inhabitants. The eastern tribes living amid mountains 
and deserts were rude, but distinguished for their hardi- 
hood, their love of independence, and their martial prowess. 
The western Asiatics, on the other hand, who inhabited 
those fair and fertile countries which had been the earliest 
seats of civilisation, were singularly deficient in these 
qualities. Enervated by ease and the affluence of luxuries, 
they offered but a feeble resistance to Alexander, and 
bent their necks submissively to his yoke. He had quite 

C 



18 INTRODUCTION 

a different experience when he came into conflict with 
the tribes of the Oxus, Jaxartes, and Indus. They 
resisted him with the utmost spirit and determination, 
rose against him even after defeat, and succeeded in 
inflicting a signal disaster on his arms. 

The system by which the vast empire was governed 
may be described as a rigid monarchy. It was divided 
by Darius Hystaspes into twenty provinces, a number 
which was afterwards much augmented probably by 
the subdivision of the larger ones. The government of 
each was committed to a satrap 1 whose powers were 
almost despotic. He collected the revenues, from which, 
besides defraying the expenses of his own administration, 
he was obliged to remit a fixed amount of annual tribute 
to the royal treasury. The Indian satrapy, which probably 
included Baktria and was limited to the regions west 
of the Indus, paid the largest tribute, which, as we learn 
from Herodotos, amounted to the immense sum of 360 
talents of gold dust. 

The king who filled the throne at the time of the 
invasion was Darius Kodomannfcs, who had some reputa- 
tion for personal courage and some other virtues which 
might have adorned his reign had it been fated to be 
peaceful. He was, however, like Louis XVI. of France, 
quite destitute of the skill and nerve required for piloting 
the vessel of the state in stormy times. The empire 
long before his accession had been falling into decay. 
Insurrections were for ever breaking out. Some of the 
provinces, though nominally subject, were practically 
independent, while in others the satraps both claimed 
and exercised the right of transmitting their authority 
by hereditary succession. What saved it from dissolution 
was, not so much the strength of the government, as 
the reluctance of the leading men, through their distrust 
of each other's good faith, to enter into combinations 
against it. It was another symptom of its weakness, 
that the king in his wars trusted far more to the Greek 

1 In Persian, Kshatrapa. 



INTRODUCTION 19 

troops in his pay than to his native levies and their 
leaders. Neither the Greeks nor the Persians had lost 
sight of the fact that at Kounaxa the victory had been 
won for Cyrus by the Greek mercenaries. 

Alexander having completed his preparations, and 
appointed Antipater to act as regent of Macedonia 
during his absence, crossed over the Hellespont into 
Asia in the spring of 334 B.C. His army, though 
numerically insignificant when compared with the magni- 
tude of the enterprise which lay before it, proved never- 
theless, from the physical superiority, courage, and daring 
of the men, combined with the perfection of their organisa- 
tion and discipline, and the consummate skill of their 
leader, more than a match for any force, however numerous, 
which was brought into the field against it. We may 
here quote a passage from Thirlwall, in which he describes 
the composition, organisation, and equipment of this heroic 
little army which performed the greatest deeds recorded 
in military annals : 

"The main body, the phalanx — or quadruple phalanx, as it 
was sometimes called, to mark that it was formed of four divi- 
sions, each bearing the same name — presented a mass of 18,000 
men, which was distributed, at least by Alexander, into six 
brigades of 3000 each, formidable in its aspect, and on ground 
suited to its operations, irresistible in its attacks. The phalangite 
soldier wore the usual defensive armour of the Greek heavy 
infantry — helmet, breast-plate, and greaves : and almost the whole 
front of his person was covered with the long shield called the 
aspis. His weapons were a sword long enough to enable a man 
in the second rank to reach an enemy who had come to close 
quarters with the comrade who stood before him, and the cele- 
brated spear, known by the Macedonian name, sarissa, four-and- 
twenty feet long. The sarissa, when couched, projected eighteen 
feet in front of the soldier : and the space between the ranks was 
such that those of the second rank were fifteen, those of the 
third twelve, those of the fourth nine, those of the fifth six, and 
those of the sixth three feet in advance of the first line : so that 
the man at the head of the file was guarded on each side by the 
points of six spears. The ordinary depth of the phalanx was of 
sixteen ranks. The men who stood too far behind to use their 



20 INTRODUCTION 

sarissas, and who therefore kept them raised until they advanced 
to fill a vacant place, still added to the pressure of the mass. As 
the efficacy of the phalanx depended on its compactness, and 
this again on the uniformity of its movements, the greatest care 
was taken to select the best soldiers for the foremost and hind- 
most ranks — the frames, as it were, of the engine. The bulk 
and core of the phalanx consisted of Macedonians ; but it was 
composed in part of foreign troops. These were no doubt 
Greeks. But the northern Illyrians, Paeonians, Agrianians, and 
Thracians, who were skilled in the use of missiles, furnished bow- 
men, dartsmen, and slingers : probably according to the propor- 
tion which the master of tactics deemed the most eligible, about 
half the number of the phalanx. To these was added another 
class of infantry, peculiar in some respects to the Macedonian 
army, though the invention belonged to Iphicrates. They were 
called Hypaspists, because, like the phalangites, they carried the 
long shield : but their spears were shorter, their swords longer, 
their armour lighter. They were thus prepared for more rapid 
movements, and did not so much depend on the nature of the 
ground. They formed a corps of about 6000 men. The cavalry 
was similarly distinguished into three classes by its arms, ac- 
coutrements, and mode of warfare. Its main strength consisted in 
1500 Macedonian and as many Thessalian horse. But the rider 
and his horse were cased in armour, and his weapons seem to 
have corresponded to those of the heavy infantry. The light 
cavalry, chiefly used for skirmishing and pursuit, and in part 
armed with the sarissa, was drawn from the Thracians and 
Paeonians, and was about the third of the number of the heavy 
horse. A smaller body of Greek cavalry probably stood in 
nearly the same relation to the other two divisions, as the 
Hypaspists to the heavy and light infantry. To the Hypaspists 
belonged the royal foot bodyguard, the Agema, or royal escort, 
and the Argyraspides, so called from the silver ornaments with 
which their long shields were enriched. But the precise relation 
in which these bodies stood to each other does not appear very 
distinctly from the descriptions of the ancients. The royal horse- 
guard was composed of eight Macedonian squadrons, filled with 
the sons of the best families. The numbers of each are not 
ascertained, but they seem in all not much to have exceeded or 
fallen short of a thousand." 

From this description of the Macedonian army, it may 
easily be imagined what a formidable aspect its main arm 
— the phalanx of panoplied infantry — would present to 



INTRODUCTION 21 

the enemy. Polybios informs us that the Roman officers 
who were present in the battle of Kynoskephalai, and 
then saw the phalanx for the first time, told him that in 
all their experience of war they had never seen anything 
so terrible. The phalanx, however, as that historian 
points out, could only operate effectively on level and 
open ground — was quite unfit for rapid advance and 
rough terrain, and useless if its ranks were broken. It 
was thus helpless in face of an active enemy unless well 
supported by cavalry and light troops. This explains 
why Alexander attached so much importance to his 
cavalry. In point of fact he owed none of his victories 
to the phalanx ; his cavalry, rapid in its evolutions and 
charging with resistless impetuosity, gained them all. In 
addition to the troops which have been particularised in 
the extract, there was one kind organised by Alexander 
called dimachai, intermediate between cavalry and infantry, 
being designed to fight on horseback or on foot as circum- 
stances required. His artillery formed a very useful part 
of his equipment. The balistai and katapeltai of which it 
consisted threw stones and darts to the distance of 300 
yards, and was frequently employed with great effect. 

As he foresaw that in the course of his expedition he 
was likely to penetrate to regions either imperfectly or 
altogether unknown, he entertained on his staff men of 
literary and scientific requirements to write his deeds, and 
describe those countries and nations to which he might 
carry his arms. 

He first came into conflict with the Persians on the 
banks of the Granikos, a small river, which, flowing from 
Mount Ida through the Trojan plain, enters the Propontis 
to the west of Kyzikos. Their army, which consisted of 
20,000 horse, and an equal number of Greek mercenaries, 
was commanded by several satraps who were assisted by 
the counsels of Memnon the Rhodian, the ablest general 
in the service of Darius. The Persians were drawn up in 
line along the right bank of the stream, while their 
mercenaries were posted on a range of heights that rose 



22 INTRODUCTION 

in the rear. Alexander drew up his forces on the opposite 
bank in the order which he adopted in all his great 
battles. Thus the phalanx formed his centre ; he 
commanded himself the extreme right, and the officer 
in whom he had most confidence the extreme left. To 
either wing were attached such brigades of the phalanx 
as circumstances seemed to require. The Persians having 
observed where Alexander was posted, strengthened their 
left wing with dense squadrons of their best cavalry, 
anticipating that this part of their line would be exposed 
to the first fury of the onset led by himself in person. 
They judged aright. Alexander having sent a detach- 
ment of cavalry across the stream, followed with other 
cavalry and a portion of the phalanx. The Persians 
made a gallant resistance, but were soon beaten. Their 
darts and scimitars were no match for the tough cornel 
of the Macedonian spears. Their ranks first broke where 
Alexander himself in the hottest of the fight was dealing 
death and wounds around him. A blow which was 
descending on his own head, and which if delivered would 
have proved fatal, was intercepted by Kleitos, who cut off 
the arm of the assailant, scimitar and all. The field was 
won before either the phalanx on the one side, or the 
Greek mercenaries on the other, could come into action. 
The Macedonians, after returning from a short pursuit, 
closed around the mercenaries and cut them down, all but 
2000 who were made prisoners and sent in chains to 
Macedonia. The number of the Persians slain was about 
i ooo against only 1 1 5 on the other side. 

Alexander did not, like most other conquerors after a 
victory, plunder the surrounding country, but regarding 
Asia as already his own, treated the inhabitants as subjects 
whose interests he was bound to protect and promote. 
Neither did he at once advance into the interior, but, 
acting by a rule of strategy which he was always careful 
to observe, resolved to make his rear secure. He there- 
fore first reduced all the western provinces of the empire 
which Darius after the defeat of his satraps had placed 



INTRODUCTION 23 

under the supreme authority of Memnon the Rhodian. 
Memnon was a formidable antagonist, both from his skill 
in war, and from his having a powerful fleet at his 
command, which gave him the dominion of the sea, and 
enabled him to threaten at will the shores of Greece and 
Macedonia. 

Alexander marched from the battle-field to Ilion, and 
advanced thence southward through the beautiful regions 
of Ionia and the other maritime states, which, in striking 
contrast to their present blighted condition, were then at 
the height of prosperity — adorned with numerous rich 
and splendid cities, which vied with each other in all the 
arts of refinement. The terror of his name preceded him, 
and these cities one after another, including even Sardis, 
the western capital, which was strongly fortified, threw 
open their gates to admit him. Miletos, however, and 
Halikarnassos, being supported by the Persian fleet, 
refused to surrender, and did not fall into his hands until 
each had been for some time besieged. After the fall of 
Halikarnassos, the rest of Karia, of which it was the 
capital, submitted, and then the operations of the first 
year of the war were brought to a close by the reduction 
of all Lykia. In this province he gave his army some 
rest. 

The next campaign opened with the conquest of 
Pamphylia, after which Alexander turned his march away 
from the coast with a view to invade Phrygia, which lay 
to the north beyond the lofty range of Tauros. It was 
now the depth of winter, but Alexander in defiance of all 
obstacles — frost and snow, torrents and precipices, and the 
resistance of the fierce Pisidian mountaineers — forced his 
way into the Phrygian plains. This passage of the Tauros 
at such a season was an achievement not unworthy to 
rank with the more celebrated passage of the Alps made 
by Hannibal about a century later. After he had cleared 
the defiles, a march of five days brought him to Kelainai, 
the capital of the greater Phrygia, which was pleasantly 
situated where the river Marsyas joins the Maeander, and 



2 4 INTRODUCTION 

was embellished with a palace and a royal park. Alex- 
ander, deeming its acropolis to be impregnable, made 
terms with the inhabitants, and then advanced to the 
ancient capital called Gordion, after Gordios, the father 
of the celebrated Midas, the first king of the country. 
Here was the complicated knot to which the prophecy 
was attached that whoever untied it should be Lord of 
Asia. It was tied on a rope of bark which fastened the 
yoke to the pole of the wagon on which Midas had been 
carried into the city on the day when the people chose 
him as their king. Alexander either undid the knot or 
cut it through with his sword. 

On the return of spring he moved forward to Ankyra 
(now Angora), and there had the satisfaction to receive 
the submission of the Paphlagonians, who at that time 
were a very powerful nation. Being thus free to move 
southwards without leaving an enemy in his rear, he 
entered Kappadokia, and having overrun it without 
encountering any serious opposition, he recrossed the 
Tauros by a pass that admitted him into the fertile plains 
of Eastern Kilikia. The capital of this province was 
Tarsos, a flourishing seat of commerce, art, and learning, 
built on both banks of the river Kydnos, which was 
navigable to the sea. This important city fell without 
resistance into Alexander's hands, the satrap having fled 
at the tidings of his approach. Here, however, he nearly 
lost his life, having caught a violent fever by throwing 
himself when heated into the waters of the Kydnos, 
which ran cold with the snows of Mount Tauros. After 
his recovery he sent Parmeni6n eastward to occupy the 
passes leading into Syria, called the Syrian Gates, and 
marched himself in the opposite direction to reduce the 
hill-tribes of Western Kilikia. In the meantime Darius, 
advancing from the East, had crossed the Euphrates and the 
Syrian desert at the head of an army not less numerous 
than that with which Napoleon invaded Russia, and was 
lying encamped on a wide plain suitable for his cavalry 
within a two days' march of the Syrian Gates. Here he 



INTRODUCTION 25 

waited for some time ready to fall upon the Macedonian 
troops and crush them with the overwhelming superiority 
of his numbers when they debouched from the defile. 
When he despaired of their coming, he marched into 
Kilikia through a pass known as the Amanian Gates and 
encamped on the banks of the Pinaros which flows 
through the plain of Issos to the sea. He thus placed 
himself in a trap where he was hemmed in by the moun- 
tains and the sea in a narrow plain not more than a mile 
and a half in width. Alexander meanwhile had passed 
through the other gates into the Syrian plain when he 
learned to his astonishment that Darius was now in his 
rear. He at once retraced his steps, and by midnight 
regained the pass, where from one of its summits he 
beheld the Persian watchfires gleaming far and wide over 
the plain of Issos. At daybreak he marched down the 
pass, and on reaching the open part of the plain made the 
usual disposition of his forces, Parmenidn commanding the 
left, and himself the right wing. Darius had drawn up 
his line, which extended from the mountains to the sea, 
along the northern bank of the river Pinaros. In the 
centre, which confronted the dreaded Macedonian phalanx, 
he had posted a body of 30,000 heavy -armed Greek 
mercenaries. 

Alexander began the action by dislodging a detach- 
ment of the enemy which had been posted at the base of 
the mountains and threatened his rear. Finding the 
Persians did not advance, he crossed the river and charged 
their left wing with such impetuosity that he broke their 
ranks and swept them from the field irretrievably dis- 
comfited. He then wheeled round and brought timely 
succour to his phalanx, which the Greek mercenaries of 
Darius were driving back with disordered ranks to the 
river. The struggle now became desperate, for these 
mercenaries, bitterly resenting the state of political degra- 
dation to which the Macedonians had reduced their 
compatriots in southern Greece, now fought against them 
with all the fury that the passions of hate and rivalry 



26 INTRODUCTION 

could inspire. They were nevertheless driven back, and 
the tide of battle surged up towards the state chariot 
itself, on which Darius was mounted in the centre of his 
line. The pusillanimous monarch no sooner perceived 
that his person was in danger than he ordered his 
charioteer to turn the heads of his horses for flight. 
This decided the fortunes of the day ; it was the signal 
of his defeat, and his troops, on seeing it, at once broke 
from their ranks and fled from the field. The cavalry 
even, which on the extreme right had victory almost 
within their grasp, yielded to the general panic, and 
helped to swell the crowd of fugitives. As the narrow- 
ness of the plain allowed but very little room for escape, 
the vanquished were massacred in myriads. Darius 
escaped across the Euphrates, but his treasures and his 
family, consisting of his mother, wife, and children, fell 
into Alexander's hands, who treated these illustrious 
captives with all the kindness and courtesy which were 
due alike to their misfortunes and their exalted rank. 

He did not pursue Darius, and about two years passed 
away before he again met him in battle. His victory had 
left Syria and Egypt open to his arms, and these countries 
had to be reduced and the power of Persia effectually 
crushed at sea before he could advance with safety into 
the heart of the empire. He therefore marched southward 
to Phoenicia, the seaports of which supplied the Persians 
with most of their war-galleys. Parmeni6n he sent forward 
with a small detachment to seize Damascus, where Darius, 
before his defeat, had deposited his treasures. The city 
surrendered without resistance, and a vast and varied 
spoil fell into the hands of the Macedonians. The cities 
along the Syrian coast submitted in like manner to Alex- 
ander himself, all but Tyre, which sent him a golden 
crown, but refused to admit him within her gates. For 
this temerity the city of merchant princes paid a dreadful 
penalty. Alexander, having captured it after a seven 
months' siege, burned it to the ground, and most of the 
inhabitants he either slew or sold into slavery. This is 



INTRODUCTION 27 

considered to have been the greatest of all Alexander's 
military achievements. Tyre had hitherto been deemed 
impregnable. It was built on an island separated from 
the mainland by a channel of the sea half a mile in width ; 
its walls, which were of great solidity, rose to an immense 
height, and its navy gave it the command of the sea. 
The inhabitants, moreover, were expert in arms, and 
defended themselves with such spirit and obstinacy that 
Alexander found himself unable to overcome their resist- 
ance, until he obtained from Cyprus and Sidon a fleet 
superior to their own. He had also to construct a cause- 
way through the channel to enable him to bring his 
engines close up to the walls, and this was a work of 
vast labour and difficulty. His merciless treatment of 
the vanquished darkly overshadows the glory of this 
memorable exploit. 

Palestine, with the adjoining districts, next submitted 
to the Conqueror. Gaza alone, like Tyre, closed its gates 
against him. This city, which stood not far from the sea, 
towards the edge of the desert which separates Syria from 
Egypt, was strongly fortified, and held out for two months. 
Alexander took it by storm, slaughtered the garrison, and 
then set out for Egypt. A seven days' march through 
the desert brought him to Pelusium. The Egyptians, 
who smarted under the bondage of Persia, like the 
Israelites of old under their own, hailed his advent as 
that of a deliverer, and gladly submitted to his rule. 

Alexander proceeded as far southward as Memphis 
and the Pyramids, and then embarking on the western or 
Kanopic branch of the Nile, sailed down to Lake Maredtis, 
and landed on the narrow sandy isthmus by which that 
lake is separated from the sea. This neck of land was 
faced on the north by the island of Pharos, a long ridge 
of rock which sheltered it from all the violence of the 
ocean. Alexander, discerning with his keen eye all the 
advantages of such a position for commerce, at once 
founded on the isthmus the city of Alexandria, which, 
as he anticipated, soon became the great centre of trade 



2 8 INTRODUCTION 

between the eastern and western worlds. His next object 
was to consult the oracle of Jupiter Ammon, which was 
said to have been visited by Herakles and Perseus, from 
both of whom he claimed to be descended. He therefore 
marched along the coast for about 200 miles to Paraitonion, 
which lay at the western extremity of Egypt. On the 
way he was met by deputies from Kyrene, who brought 
him valuable presents, and invited him to visit their city. 
From Paraitonion he marched southward through the 
Libyan desert, and, after some days, reached the large 
and beautiful oasis where, embosomed amid thick woods, 
rose the temple of Ammon and the palace of his priests. 
On consulting the oracle he obtained answers, about the 
nature of which he stated nothing further than that they 
were satisfactory. He then returned across the desert to 
Memphis, where he settled the future government of Egypt, 
and ordered justice to be dispensed according to the ancient 
laws of the country. From Memphis he directed his 
march to Syria, and on reaching Tyre, remained there for 
some time. While he was in Egypt he had been visited 
by Hegelochos, his admiral, who reported that the Persians 
had been dispossessed of the islands which they had ac- 
quired in the Aegean ; that their fleet had been dissipated, 
and that all their leaders were prisoners except Pharna- 
bazos, the successor of Memnon, who had died somewhat 
suddenly while Alexander was in Phrygia. 

Alexander was now, therefore, the undisputed master 
of all the countries west of the Euphrates, and could with 
complete security turn his arms eastward to bring his contest 
with Persia to a final issue. Darius, on the other hand, 
who, in the interval between his defeat and the fall of Tyre, 
had twice sent an embassy to the Conqueror to sue for 
peace and the ransom of his family, on terms which, 
though most tempting, had been haughtily refused, was 
mustering all his forces to encounter the storm of war 
which would sooner or later burst from the clouds that 
hung ominously on his western horizon. The army he 
now raised was far stronger numerically than that with 



INTRODUCTION 29 

which he had fought at Issos, and, as it was drawn chiefly 
from the east, consisted of the best troops in his empire. 



1 :: 


' ""«. ■ -' 


y< ~ — < ■ 


^ - "C ^ - '"'■- ; "~ 


1" "" 5 


\~.*~ \^"^^^.v. 1"^-- -~T; "" 


i — - \ ' — 


- "~\ V**''^ - . V N - '""'- <" 






[=*— -' 


. -I ^"■.^Cy*^ -~ -""- i 










f : 


| ^J^5^; , *? ,.:" 


f" - ~ 






;• , X^™"^^-,,-" „-- •'■"•~ V **'\-~ V 


* '■' ~' 


"-' "^s, * t— -\ "T^"" ' a--., " 1 ■■ ' ' '"' 


!— ~ -^ 


I - — *v. — ' ' r '"V'»«aw— ^^^^- v '- . "' 


r - - 






^XJ.J>" .■■■-' 3^ \ :■;:;■ ■ ) i ^ - ■ 


i ^ 




••■-'■ 



Fig. 3. — Seal of Darius. 

He led it from Babylon across the Tigris, and marching 
northward along the eastern bank of that river, reached 
the plains of northern Assyria, which afforded ample 
space for the evolutions of his numerous cavalry. Here 
he encamped on a wide plain between the Tigris and the 
mountains of Kurdistan, near a village called Gaugamela. 

Alexander, having remained at Tyre until his prepara- 
tions were completed, started from that city after midsummer 
in the year 331 B.C. On crossing the Euphrates at the 
fords of Thapsakos, he learned where Darius was, and at 
once accelerated his march to find him. He passed the 
Tigris, which had been left unguarded, and advancing 
southward for a few days, came in sight of the Persian 
host, which he found already drawn up in line prepared 
for action. It is said that Parmenidn, alarmed by the 
immense array of the hostile ranks, came at a late hour 
to the king's tent and proposed a night attack, and that 
Alexander's answer was that it would be a base thing 
to steal a victory. His forces amounted only to 40,000 
infantry and 7000 horse, yet he was so confident of 
success that on the morning of the decisive day his sleep 
was deeper and longer than usual. 

In its main features, the battle that followed was 
but a repetition of the day of Issos. Alexander again 



30 INTRODUCTION 

commanded the right wing and Parmenidn the left. Again 
Darius posted himself in the centre of his line, and again 
the Greek mercenaries confronted the Macedonian phalanx. 
Again Alexander, at the head of the Companion cavalry, 
made havoc of the troops which guarded the royal standard ; 
and again Darius, terror-struck at his near approach, 
ignominiously fled from the field. His flight gave once 
more the signal of defeat, and that too, as at Issos, just 
at the time when his cavalry on the right had made the 
position of Parmenidn most critical. 1 Alexander was re- 
called from the pursuit of Darius, whom he was eagerly 
bent on capturing, by a messenger sent by Parmenidn 
pressing for instant aid. He at once turned back. On 
his way he met the Persian and Parthian cavalry and the 
Indian troops now in full retreat. A combat close and 
hot followed. The fugitives were for the most part 
killed, but sold their lives dearly. On returning to the 
field Alexander found that his left wing was no longer 
in distress, but putting the enemy to rout, and he there- 
fore started once more in pursuit of Darius. The fugitive 
escaped, however, to Ekbatana, the capital in former 
days of the Median kings. 

Accounts differ as to the numbers that were killed in 
this battle. Arrian says, absurdly enough, that 300,000 
of the Persians were slain, and a greater number taken 
prisoners. Dioddros reduces the amount to 90,000, and 
Curtius to 40,000. The loss again on Alexander's side 
is reckoned by Arrian at 100, by Curtius at 300, and by 
Dioddros at 500. 2 

1 The Macedonian line in this part the battles of old times fought at close 

of the field being broken, some of the quarters." "The biographers of Sir 

Indians and of the Persian cavalry Charles Napier," he continues, "have 

burst through the gap and fought made a great point of the circum- 

their way to the enemy's baggage, stance that at the battle of Meani the 

where a desperate conaict ensued.— British force of less than 3000 men 

.4 man, 111. 14. was opposed by 40,000 of the enemy 

- General Chesney, commenting who fought desperately for several 

lately on these numbers, remarks hours. Now, the whole British loss 

that " numbers without discipline are, in killed and wounded was under 300, 

after a certain point, worse than use- so that, assuming every wound to 

less, the men only get in each others' have been inflicted by a separate 

way. This was especially the case in sword or bullet, it follows that out of 



INTRODUCTION 3' 

Alexander pursued the fugitive troops as far as Arbela 
— the place which has given its name to the battle, though 
it was sixty miles distant from the field whereon it was 
fought. Here he found the baggage of Darius, and having 
enriched himself with its spoils, he advanced southward to 
Babylon. This great capital, which once gave law to all 
the nations of the East, had under the rule of the Achai- 
menids gradually declined both in wealth and importance. 
Its inhabitants, like the Egyptians, detested their Persian 
masters, who oppressed them and persecuted their religion. 
They issued therefore from their gates in a joyful proces- 
sion to welcome the victor and present him with gifts. His 
first acts on entering the city were well calculated to make 
a favourable impression on their minds. He ordered the 
temple of Belus to be rebuilt, honoured that deity with a 
public sacrifice according to the Chaldaean ritual, and re- 
stored to his priests the immense revenues with which 
they had been endowed by the Assyrian kings. 1 

Alexander thus found himself the master of a more 
spacious empire than any the world had yet seen. No 
king or conqueror had ever before stood on such a giddy 

the 40,000 desperate fighters, 39,700 a good deal of time would be taken 
contributed nothing to the fighting." up, the business must have been de- 
In another passage he points out that cided in a very few minutes when 
an ancient battle was in some respects once the infantry actually engaged, 
a much more formidable thing than a The fact is that when two bodies of 
modern one. In the battle of old men meet with sword or spear, a 
days the absence of noise, except the prolonged contest is from the nature 
words of command, the tramp of men, of the case impossible. In modern 
and the clashing of armour, above all warfare when a battle is lost, a large 
the closeness of one's adversary, must part of the defeated army is already 
have been of a kind to try the nerves at a distance and gets off unharmed, 
much more than the rattle of musketry, But there was no escape for the man 
the crashing of shells, and the thunder in armour, and when he turned his 
of the artillery in a modern battle. back his shield was no defence. 
What we shall never get back to is 1 "Against Phoenicians, Egyptians, 
hand-to-hand fighting at close quarters. Babylonians, Alexander had no mis- 
It was this that made a battle so de- sion of vengeance ; he might rather 
cisive in olden days, and caused the call on them to help him against the 
tremendous slaughter that used to common foe. ... If the gods of 
be the fate of the beaten side. An Attica had been wronged and insulted 
ancient battle was really a very short (by the Persians) so had the gods of 
affair. After the marshalling of the Memphis and Babylon". — Prof. Free- 
troops and the preliminary skirmish- man, Historical Essays, ii. pp. 202, 
ing of the cavalry and the archery 203. 
practice of the light troops, in which 



32 INTRODUCTION 

pinnacle of power. As he had made his way to this 
supreme height before he had yet reached those years 
or experienced those vicissitudes of fortune which have a 
sobering effect on the mind, it is not surprising that, as in 
the case of Napoleon, whose genius was at many points in 
close touch with his own, and who, at a like early age, had 
amazed the world with his deeds of arms, unbounded 
success tended to deteriorate his character. He is found 
henceforth becoming more arrogant and despotic, more 
suspicious, and avid of flattery, while less tolerant of advice 
or remonstrance, and less capable of controlling the 
violence of his passions. The simple style of living in 
which he had been brought up seemed no longer to 
please him, and he began to assume all the pomp and 
splendour with which an oriental despot loves to sur- 
round himself, 1 an innovation in his habits which deeply 
mortified the pride of the Macedonians. It may be urged 
in his defence that he may have made the change less 
from any real inclination than from the politic motive 
of conciliating his new subjects by conforming to their 
tastes and habits. 

Before leaving Babylon he settled the affairs of Assyria 
and its dependencies in accordance with a principle on 
which he generally acted, committing the civil administra- 
tion to a native ruler, but leaving the command of the 
forces and the collection of the revenue in the hands 
of Macedonian officers. He then marched eastward, 
and in twenty days reached Sousa, the favourite capital 
of the Persian kings. Rich as Babylon was, its treasures 
were as nothing compared with those which had been 
here accumulated. The sums contained in the treasury 
amounted to 40,000 talents of uncoined gold and silver, 
and 9000 talents of coined gold, and there was other 
booty besides of immense value, including the spoils 
which Xerxes had carried off from Greece — the recovery 

1 " From this unhappy time all the upon him till he could bear neither 
worst failings of Alexander become restraint nor opposition.''— Prof. Free- 
more strongly developed. . . . Im- man, Historical Essavs, ii. p. 206. 
petuosity and self-exaltation now grew 



INTRODUCTION 33 

of which gratified beyond measure the patriotic feelings 
of the army. 

From Sousa Alexander took the road to Persepolis, 
the ancient capital of the Persians, a rich and splendid 
city lying to the south-east of Sousa, in the beautiful vale 
of Persis which was fertilised by the streams descending 
from Mount Zagros, the Medos, and the Araxes. 1 On his 
route he passed through the hill-country of the Ouxians, 
which like that of the Pisidians, was occupied by warlike 
and predatory tribes. These mountaineers were nominally 
subject to Persia, but they nevertheless at one of their 
defiles exacted toll even from the Great King himself 
whenever he passed through their country in going 
between his two capitals. They beset this defile with 
the whole of their effective force to levy the customary 
tribute from Alexander, who payed them what he called 
their dues in the form of a crushing defeat. 2 He then 
plundered their villages, and, having received their sub- 
mission, pressed forward by way of the formidable pass 
called the Persian Gates. 3 Here the satrap Ariobarzanes, 
at the head of more than 40,000 men, tried but in vain 
to arrest his progress. Alexander, with his usual skill 
and courage forced the position, and meeting with no 
further resistance reached Persepolis, where no defence 
was attempted. He not only permitted his soldiers to 
plunder this ancient capital, but, if we may believe 
the story, with which Dryden's Ode has made us familiar, 
set fire with his own hands in a drunken revel to the 
royal palace, a structure of supreme magnificence, as 
its ruins, which are still to be seen, attest. It is more 
probable, however, that he burned it from motives of 
policy, partly to show the Persians how absolutely he 
was now their master, and partly to avenge Greece for 
the destruction of her temples by Xerxes. In the 
royal treasury he found the vast sum of 1 20,000 talents, 

1 The Medos is now the Polvar 8 The narrow defile near Kahh 
and the Araxes the Bund-Amir. Safed (the white fort), some fifty 

2 Kinneir places the Ouxian passes miles to the north-west of Shiraz. 
to the north-west of Bebehan. 



34 INTRODUCTION 

which falls little short of thirty million pounds of our 
money. As it was now mid-winter he here gave his 
army some respite from their toils. He gave himself, 
however, no rest, but led a detachment to Pasargadai, 
the primitive seat of the Achaimenids, which contained an 
august monument, the tomb of Cyrus, which still exists, 
and a rich treasury which he plundered. 1 He next 
assailed the Mardians, and marching over ice and snow, 
reduced their mountain fastnesses and compelled their 
submission. 

In the spring of 330 B.C. he resumed the pursuit of 
Darius, who was still at Ekbatana making vain efforts 
to raise another army. The fallen monarch, on hearing 
that the enemy was again moving against him and had 
reached Media, fled eastward hoping to find protection 
and safety in the far remote province of Baktria, of 
which his kinsman Bessos was the satrap. The capital 
which he had left was the summer residence of the 
Persian kings, and was noted for the enormous strength 
of its citadel. Alexander therefore ordered Parmenion 
to transport thither, as to a place of peculiar security, 
the treasures which had been seized at the other capitals, 
and to confide their custody to a strong guard of Mace- 
donian soldiers. 2 This done, he set out with a light 
detachment of troops in the hope of overtaking the 
fugitive king before he passed through the Kaspian 
Gates. At Rhagai, which was a day's rapid march from 
that pass, he learned that Darius had escaped beyond it, 
and he therefore halted for five days to recruit his 
troops. On renewing the pursuit and reaching the open 
country beyond the gates, he learned that the Persian 
officers who were escorting their sovereign had conspired 

1 Curzon thinks that Pasargadai lay treasure-hoards produced such effects 
to the north-east of Persepolis at a as resulted in recent times from the 
distance of some thirty miles. For a discoveries of gold in California and 
discussion regarding their ruins and Australia. The prices of all commo- 
the tomb of Cyrus see his great work dities were greatly enhanced, and 
on Persia just published, vol. ii. pp. prosperity advanced by leaps and 
70;92- bounds. 

2 The release of these enormous 



INTRODUCTION 35 

against him and deprived him of his liberty. Greatly 
fearing now lest the traitors had some deadlier purpose 
in view, he made incredible exertions to overtake them, 
and he came up with them on the fourth day — but all 
too late. The conspirators, among whom was Bessos, 
finding that the pursuit was gaining upon them, mortally 
wounded the hapless king, who breathed his last before 
Alexander reached him. " Such," says Arrian, " was the 
end of Darius, who as a warrior was singularly remiss and 
injudicious. In other respects his character is blameless, 
either because he was just by nature, or because he had 
no opportunity of displaying the contrary, as his accession 
and the Macedonian invasion were simultaneous. It was 
not in his power, therefore, to oppress his subjects, as his 
danger was greater than theirs. His reign was one un- 
broken series of disasters, and he was at last treacherously 
assassinated by his most intimate connections. At his death 
he was about fifty years old." Alexander sent his body 
into Persia with orders that it should be buried with all 
due honours in the royal sepulchre. Bessos escaped into 
his own satrapy where he assumed the upright tiara, the 
distinguishing emblem of Persian royalty, and took the 
name of Artaxerxes. 

Alexander now halted at Hekatompylos, 1 a place 
which received this Greek name from its being the centre 
where many roads met, and which became in after times 
the capital of the Parthian kings. Being joined here by 
the rest of his army, he prepared to invade Hyrkania, from 
which he was separated by the chain of mountains now 
called the Elburz. As the passes were beset by robber- 
tribes, he divided his army into three bodies. The most 
numerous division crossed the mountains under his own 
command by the shortest and most difficult roads. 
Krateros made a circuit to the left through the country 
of the Tapeirians (Taburistan), while the third division 

, * Perhaps Damaghan, but its posi- yond the Kaspian Gates, but accord- 
tion is very uncertain. According to ing to Pliny only 133 miles. See 
Apollodoros it was 1260 stadia be- Curzon's Persia, i. p. 287. 



36 INTRODUCTION 

under Erigyios took the royal road which led westward 
from Hekatompylos to Zadrakarta. 1 The divisions on 
emerging from the denies united, and encamped near 
the last named place, which was the Hyrkanian capital. 
Hither came to Alexander with three of his sons the 
aged Artabazos, accompanied by the Tapeirian satrap 
and by deputies from the Greek mercenaries of Darius. 
Artabazos was received with distinguished honour, both 
because of his high rank and the fidelity he had shown 
to Darius, whom he had accompanied in his flight. The 
satrap was confirmed in his government, but the deputies 
were sternly told that as the mercenaries had violated the 
duty which they owed to their country, they must submit 
themselves unreservedly to the judgment of the king. 
Alexander then attacked the Mardians who inhabited the 
lofty mountains to the north-west of the Kaspian Gates. 
They submitted after a slight resistance, and were ordered 
to obey the Tapeirian satrap. 

Alexander's next object was to crush Bessos and 
possess himself of all the eastern provinces as far as the 
borders of India. He therefore marched eastward towards 
Baktria, and having traversed the northern part of Parthia, 
reached Sousia, a city of Areia (now Sous, near Meshed, 
the present capital of Khorasan). Satibarzanes, the satrap 
of that province, and one of the conspirators against 
Darius, met him here, and having tendered his submission, 
was confirmed in his government, and dismissed with an 
escort of Macedonian horsemen to his capital, Artakoana. 
Alexander then resumed his march towards Baktria, but 
was arrested on the way by receiving word that Satibar- 
zanes had revolted in favour of Bessos, armed the Areians, 
and slain his Macedonian escort. He therefore at once 
altered his route, and by the promptitude of his appear- 
ance confounded the plans of the satrap, who fled and was, 
deserted by most of his troops. Artakoana was captured 
by Krateros after a short siege. This city stood in a 
plain of exceptional fertility at a point where all the roads 

1 Sari, according to Droysen. 



INTRODUCTION 37 

from the north to the south, and from the west to the 
east, united, and Alexander, discerning the incomparable 
advantages of its position, whether for war or commerce, 
founded in its neighbourhood a new city in which he 
planted a Macedonian colony. He called it Alexandreia, 
and as it still exists as Herat, it will be seen how well 
grounded was its founder's belief in the strategetical and 
commercial importance of its site. 

Alexander, after suppressing this revolt, instead of 
resuming his march to Baktria, moved forward to Proph- 
thasia (now Furrah), the capital of Drangiana (Seistan), of 
which Barsaentes, another of the accomplices in the murder 
of Darius, was satrap. This traitor was seized and exe- 
cuted. Here an event occurred which has left a dark 
stain on the character of Alexander. He was led to 
suspect that a conspiracy had been formed against his life 
by some of his principal officers, and among others by 
the son of Parmenidn, Philotas, who held the most coveted 
post in the army, that of commander of the Companion 
Cavalry. It is certain that he was not an accomplice in 
the plot ; but as he had been informed of its existence, 
and failed to give the king any warning of his danger, he 
was accused before the Macedonian army and condemned 
to death. He confessed under torture that his father, 
Parmenidn, had formed a design against the king's life, and 
that he had himself joined the recent plot, lest his father, 
who was now an old man, might, before the plot was ripe, 
be snatched away by death from his command at Ekba- 
tana, which placed the vast treasures deposited there at 
his disposal. This confession, wrung by torture when its 
agonies became insupportable, and obviously framed to 
meet the wishes of the questioners, was no proof of the 
guilt either of the father or the son. Parmenion was, never- 
theless, on this worthless evidence condemned to death, 
and Alexander, whom he had so faithfully served, took 
care that the sentence should be executed before the news 
of his son's death, which he might seek to avenge, could 
reach his ears. Many other Macedonians were also at 



3 8 INTRODUCTION 

this time tried and put to death. Alexander's confidence 
in his friends was thus much shaken ; and instead of 
entrusting as formerly the command of the Companion 
Cavalry to one individual, he divided that body into two 
regiments, giving the command of one to Kleitos, and of 
the other to Hephaistion. 

From Prophthasia he proceeded southwards into the 
fertile plains along the Etymander (R. Helmund), then 
inhabited by a peaceful tribe called the Ariaspians, who 
had received from Cyrus the title of Euergetai — that is, 
benefactors, because they had assisted him at a time when 
he had been reduced to great straits. Alexander spent 
two months in their dominions, probably awaiting the 
arrival of reinforcements from Ekbatana. During this 
interval Demetrios, a member of the king's bodyguard, 
was arrested on suspicion of his having been implicated 
with Phil6tas in the recent plot, and his office was bestowed 
on Ptolemy, the son of Lagos, for whom this promotion 
opened the way to a royal destiny. Alexander before 
resuming his march appointed a governor over the Euer- 
getai, but rewarded their hospitality by augmenting their 
territory and confirming them in the enjoyment of their 
political privileges. 

He left this country about mid-winter, and ascending 
the valley of the Etymander penetrated into Arachosia, a 
province which stretched eastward to the Indus. As he 
advanced northward by Kandahar the snow la}- deep on 
the ground, and the soldiers suffered severely both from 
hunger and cold. About this time he heard that the 
Areians had again revolted at the instigation of Satibar- 
zanes, who had entered their province at the head of 2000 
horse, and he immediately sent a detachment under Eri- 
gyios to quell the insurgents. Continuing meanwhile his 
own advance, he arrived at the foot of the colossal 
mountain-barrier, the chain of Paropanisos, which separates 
Kabul from Baktria. Here in a commanding position, 
near the village of Charikar, which stands in the rich and 
beautiful valley of Koh-Daman, he founded yet another 



INTRODUCTION 39 

Alexandreia (called by way of distinction Alexandreia of 
the Paropamisadai, or Alexandria apud Caucasum), and 
planted it with Macedonian colonists. According to 
Strabo he wintered in this neighbourhood, but Arrian leads 
us to suppose that he departed as soon as he had founded 
the city. He crossed the mountains, as some think, by 
the Bamian Pass, the most western of the four routes 
which give access from the Koh-Daman to the regions of 
the Upper Oxus. It is likelier, however, that he ascended 
by the more direct route along the course of the Panjshir 
river. The army again suffered on the way from the 
severity of the cold, and still more from the scarcity of 
provisions. According to Aristoboulos nothing grew on 
these hills but terebinth trees and the herb called silphium, 
on which the flocks and herds of the mountaineers pastured. 
This march, which terminated at Adrapsa, occupied fifteen 
days. 

The Macedonians had now reached a fertile country ; 
but as Bessos had ordered it to be ravaged, they found a 
wide barrier of desolation opposed to their further advance. 
The barrier was interposed in vain. Alexander resolutely 
pressed forward, and Bessos and his associates fled at his 
approach, and, crossing, the Oxus, retired into Sogdiana. 
Aornos and Baktra, the two principal cities of the Baktrian 
satrapy, surrendered without resistance, and the satrapy 
itself was soon afterwards reduced. At Baktra Erigyios, 
who had succeeded in quelling the Areian revolt, rejoined 
the army. Alexander having appointed Artabazos satrap 
of his new conquest, marched to the Oxus in pursuit of 
Bessos, and came upon that river at the point where Kijil 
now stands. There it was about three-quarters of a mile 
in breadth, and the current was found to be both deep 
and rapid. The passage, which occupied five days, was 
made on floats, supported by skins stuffed with straw, and 
rendered watertight. The army had no sooner gained 
the right bank than messengers arrived from two of the 
leading adherents of Bessos — Spitamenes, the satrap 
of Sogdiana, and Dataphernes — promising to surrender 



4 o INTRODUCTION 

Bessos, who was already their prisoner, if Alexander 
would send a small force to their support. The king 
assented, and sent Ptolemy forward to receive the traitor 
from their hands. They gave him up, and he was 
conducted with a rope round his neck into the presence 
of the king, who ordered him to be scourged and then 
conveyed to Zariaspa (which some identify with Baktra), 
there to await his final doom. 

The army next marched forward to Marakanda, now 
Samarkand, then merely the capital of the Sogdian 
satrapy, but destined to be in aftertimes the capital 
of the vast empire founded by Timour. It stood in the 
valley of the Polytimetos (R. Kohik), a region of such 
exuberant fertility and beauty that it figures in Persian 
poetry as one of the four paradises of the world. Alex-, 
ander remained for some time in this pleasant neighbour- 
hood to remount his cavalry and otherwise recruit his 
forces. He then advanced to the river Jaxartes, which 
formed the boundary between the Persian empire and 
the barbarous Skythian tribes, and which the Greeks 
confounded with the Tanais or Don. The country was 
protected against the inroads of these warlike tribes by a 
line of fortified towns, of which the largest and strongest, 
Cyropolis, had been founded, as its name imports, by 
Cyrus. Alexander captured all these fortresses and 
manned them with small Macedonian garrisons ; and to 
curb the Skythians still more effectually, founded on the 
banks of the Jaxartes, near where Khojent now stands, 
still another Alexandreia, which the Greeks for distinction's 
sake called Eschate, or " the Extreme." In the midst of 
this undertaking, he was interrupted by the sudden out- 
break of a widespread rebellion instigated by Spitamenes 
and his confederates. Taking immediate and energetic 
steps for its suppression, he in a few days recovered the 
seven towns ; and then crossing the Jaxartes, defeated the 
Skythians, who with a view to aid the insurgents had mus- 
tered in great force on its right bank. After this victory 
he received tidings of the first serious disaster that had 



INTRODUCTION 41 

befallen his arms. He had sent a large force to operate 
against Spitamenes, who was at the time besieging the 
Macedonian garrison which held Marakanda. On learning 
that this force was approaching, the rebel chief retired 
down the Polytimetos to Bokhara, and thence to the vast 
desert which stretches from Sogd to the Sea of Aral. 
Here he was joined by a large body of Skythian horse- 
men, and thus reinforced turned upon his pursuers, drove 
them back from the edge of the desert, which they had 
just entered, into the valley whence they had emerged, 
and there, amid the woody ravines of the Polytimetos, cut 
them to pieces almost to a man. Encouraged by this 
success, he returned to Marakanda and renewed the siege 
of its citadel, but on learning that Alexander was rapidly 
returning from the Jaxartes, he retraced his steps towards 
the desert, and reached it before the enemy overtook him. 
The course of the pursuit led Alexander to the scene of 
the late disaster. His first care was to bury the slain, 
and he then avenged their death by ravaging with fire 
and sword, in all its length and breadth, the lovely valley 
of the Polytimetos. He showed no mercy, but slaughtered 
all who fell into his hands, soldier and citizen alike. This 
is certainly, as Thirlwall remarks, one of the acts of his 
life for which it is most difficult to find an excuse. 

As the year (329 B.C.) was now drawing to a close, he 
recrossed the Oxus and returned to Zariaspa (Baktra ?), 
where he spent the winter. Sentence was here pro- 
nounced upon Bessos, who was mutilated and then sent 
to Ekbatana for execution. Alexander's European forces, 
as the narrative has shown, were constantly undergoing 
diminution, not only by losses in the field, but also by his 
leaving Macedonian veterans to garrison important strong- 
holds, or to form the nucleus of the population . of the 
cities he founded. He therefore from time to time sent 
requisitions for recruits to Macedonia and Greece, and as 
these were adequately met the fighting quality of his 
troops was always maintained at the same high level. 
During his stay at Baktra a great number of such recruits 



42 INTRODUCTION 

arrived, and rilled up the large gap which the late disaster 
had made in his ranks. There came thither also ambas- 
sadors from the King of the Skythians, bringing presents 
and the offer of a marriage alliance, which was declined. 
The King of the Khorasmians, moreover, whose dominions, 
according to his own account, bordered on the land of the 
Kolchians and the Amazons, came in person and offered 
his services to Alexander should he wish to subdue the 
nations to the north and west of the Kaspian Sea. 
Alexander, however, being now anxious to enter India, 
declined his offers for the present. 

The accounts of his next two campaigns are con- 
fused, and not always mutually consistent. According to 
Curtius, when he moved from Zariaspa, he crossed the 
river Ochos (now the Aksou), and came to a city called 
Marginia, probably the Marginan of our times. Arrian, 
however, makes no mention of this expedition. The 
Baktrians were still imperfectly subjugated, and the 
Sogdians, notwithstanding the severe chastisement they 
had received, were again up in arms against his authority. 
He therefore left Krateros to deal with the former, while 
he marched in person against Marakanda. On his way 
thither he performed another of his marvellous achieve- 
ments, the capture of a fortress perched on the summit of 
a steep, lofty, and strongly fortified rock, held by a power- 
ful garrison, and deemed to be impregnable. He captured 
it, nevertheless. Within this stronghold Oxyartes, a 
Baktrian chief, had for safety deposited his wife and 
daughters. Roxana, the eldest daughter, was, next to 
the wife of Darius, the most beautiful of all Asiatic 
women, and Alexander was so captivated with her charms 
that he did not hesitate to make her his wife. 

Spi.tamenes, meanwhile, assisted by the Massagetai, 
one of the Skythian tribes that ranged ' over the Khoras- 
mian desert, made a devastating irruption into Baktria, 
and though he was in the end repulsed by Krateros, 
escaped into the desert beyond the reach of pursuit. 
Fearing he might renew his attack in some other quarter, 



INTRODUCTION 43 

Alexander hastened to Marakanda to settle the province 
and provide for its security against future hostile incur- 
sions. To this end he directed a number of new towns 
to be founded and planted with Macedonian, Greek, and 
native colonists. In the course of this expedition he 
came to the Royal Park at Bazaria (perhaps Bokhara), 
and while hunting within its precincts killed a lion of 
extraordinary size with his own hand. 

On his return to Marakanda a tragic incident occurred 
— his murder of Kleitos, from whom he had received 
some provocation in the course of a drunken revel. As 
he was tenderly attached to Kleitos, who was the brother 
of his nurse, and had saved his life at the Granikos, his 
remorse for this frenzied deed knew no bounds at the 
time, and gave him many bitter moments in his after life. 

His next expedition led him towards the western 
frontier of the province, where he reduced the district 
called Xenippa, which lay on the skirts of the Noura 
mountains — a range that runs from east to west about 
ten miles north of Bokhara. As Spitamenes was sup- 
posed to be in the desert not far off, he left Koinos in 
that part of the country with orders to capture that 
audacious rebel, while he himself withdrew to Nautaka, 
where he intended to pass the winter. This place was 
situated in a fertile oasis between Samarkand and the 
Oxus, and must have occupied the site of Kurshee or 
Kesh, noted afterwards as the birthplace of Timour. 
Spitamenes, meanwhile, attacked Koinos, but was de- 
feated after a severe struggle, and driven back into the 
desert. His Skythian confederates, fearing their own 
country might be invaded, cut off his head and sent it to 
Alexander ; and so perished the most active, bold, and 
persevering antagonist that he had as yet encountered in 
Asia, one of the few who resolutely and to the last scorned 
to bend his neck to a foreign yoke. 

With the first return of spring (B.C. 327) he moved 
from his winter quarters to invade the Paraitakai, who, as 
their name indicates, inhabited a mountainous district, and 



44 INTRODUCTION 

were, some think, a branch of the widespread Takka tribe, 
the name of which appears in Taxila, which designated a 
great capital it possessed in India. In the country of the 
Paraitakai, which lay to the east of Baktria and Sogdiana, 
there was another great rock fortress, which, like the 
Sogdian, was deemed impregnable. It was the main 
stronghold of a chief called Khorienes, who, after holding 
out for some time, was persuaded by Oxyartes to cast 
himself on the generosity of the great conqueror, a quality 
of which he had himself a very satisfactory experience. 
Khorienes therefore surrendered, and was rewarded by 
being confirmed in his government. Alexander after this 
success proceeded to Baktra in order to make preparation 
for his expedition into India, but left Krateros to reduce 
such of the tribes as still held out for independence. At 
Baktra another tragedy was enacted. The court pages, at 
the instigation of one of their number, called Hermolaos, 
who had been subjected to some degrading punishment, 
conspired against the king, who narrowly escaped assassi- 
nation. The pages, who all belonged to families of high 
rank, were tortured to extract confessions of their guilt, 
and were then stoned to death by the Macedonians. The 
confessions indicated, it is said, that Kallisthenes, a literary 
man attached to the court who had been permitted, on the 
recommendation of his kinsman Aristotle, to accompany 
the expedition, not only knew of the existence of the 
plot, but had encouraged the pages to persist in their 
design. He had rendered himself obnoxious to the king 
by the freedom with which he expressed his opinions and 
by his opposition to the Persian fashions introduced into 
the court, and his doom was sealed. Accounts differ as 
to the time and mode of his death. According to Ptolemy 
he was tortured and then crucified, but Aristoboulos and 
Chares agree in stating that he was carried about in chains 
and died at last of disease in India. 

The summer had set in when Alexander set out from 
Baktra on his Indian expedition. He crossed the chain 
of Paropamisos in ten days, and halted at the Alexandreia 



INTRODUCTION 45 

which he had founded at their base to settle the affairs of 
that city and the surrounding district. The narrative of 
his campaigns, from the time he left this place till he led 
his army into Karmania, after its disastrous march through 
the burning sands of the Gedrosian desert, is given in full 
detail in the translations which form the body of this 
work. His march, which on his emerging from the desert 
lay through the beautiful and fertile province of Karmania, 
resembled a festive procession, and the licence in which 
he permitted his soldiers to indulge was meant no less to 
obliterate the memory of their terrible sufferings in the 
desert than to celebrate according to Bacchic fashion and 
example the conquest of India. 

In Karmania, Alexander received intelligence that 
Philip, who had been left in command of all the country 
west of the Indus had been slain in a mutiny by the Greek 
mercenaries under his command, but that the Macedonian 
troops had quelled the mutiny and put the assassins to 
death. He did not at the time appoint any successor to 
Philip, but empowered Eudemos and Taxiles to take 
temporary charge of the affairs of the satrapy. Before 
he left Karmania he was rejoined by Krateros who brought 
in safety the division of the army which he had led from 
the Indus by way of Arachosia, Drangiana, and the 
Karmanian desert. Nearchos also visited his camp, which 
at the time was a five days' journey distant from the sea, 
and communicated the welcome news that the fleet had 
arrived in safety at the mouth of the Persian Gulf. The 
admiral was instructed to continue the voyage by sailing 
up the Gulf to the mouth of the Tigris, while Hephaistidn 
was put in command of the main army with orders to 
proceed to Sousa along the maritime parts of Persis and 
Sousiana. The king himself with a small division took 
the upper road which led to that capital through Pasar- 
gadai and Persepolis. In Persis things had not gone well 
in his absence. The satrap whom he had appointed was 
dead, and his office had been usurped by Orxines, a Persian 
of great wealth and high rank, against whom many acts of 



4 6 INTRODUCTION 

violence and oppression were charged. He found also 
that the tomb of Cyrus had been desecrated and plundered, 
and this outrage excited his violent indignation, since he 
looked upon that conqueror as the founder of the vast 
empire which was now his own. He could not discover 
the perpetrators, but had to content himself with ordering 
the violated sepulchre to be properly restored. On reaching 
Persepolis he investigated the charges against Orxines, 
and finding them proved, put him to death, and gave his 
satrapy to Peukestas, one of the commanders of his 
bodyguard. 

In Persis the health of Kalanos, the Indian gymno- 
sophist, who, at Alexander's request, had abjured the 
ascetic life and followed him from India, began to fail, 
and, as he chose rather to die than suffer the infirmities 
of age, he announced that it was his intention to burn him- 
self. The king attempted to dissuade him, but finding 
that he was inexorably bent on self-destruction, ordered a 
funeral pyre to be prepared for him, and all the arrange- 
ments connected with his cremation to be superintended 
by Ptolemy. On the day appointed the devotee ascended 
the pyre and perished in its flames, exhibiting throughout 
a serene fortitude and self-possession which greatly 
astonished the Macedonians who attended in throngs to 
witness this strange spectacle. Strabo makes Pasargadai 
to be the scene of this incident, but Diodoros, Sousa, and 
with more probability, since we know that Xearchos was 
an eye-witness of the burning. 

Alexander reached Sousa in the beginning of the year 
324 B.C., and remained there for a considerable time, 
regulating the affairs of his new dominions. One of his 
great objects was to fuse together as far as was practicable 
his European with his Asiatic subjects ; and to this end 
he assigned to some eighty of his generals Asiatic wives, 
giving with each an ample down-. He took himself a 
second wife, Barsin£, called sometimes Stateira, the eldest 
daughter of Darius, and, it is said, also a third, Parysatis, 
the daughter of Ochos, one of the predecessors of Darius. 



INTRODUCTION 47 

About 10,000 Macedonians followed the example of their 
superiors, and all who did so received presents from their 
royal master. Carrying out this object in another form, 
he enrolled a large number of Asiatics among his European 
troops. These new schemes were so bitterly resented by 
the better class of his Macedonian veterans that they rose 
against him in a mutiny which he had no little difficulty 
in quelling. About 10,000 of these veterans were dis- 
missed, and they returned to Europe under the command 
of Krateros. Towards the close of the year he went to 
Ekbatana, and there he lost his chief favourite Hephaistion, 
who succumbed to an attack of fever. His grief at this 
bereavement knew no bounds, and showed itself in acts 
which seem copied from those wherewith Achilles demon- 
strated his passionate sense of the loss of his beloved 
Patroklos. From Ekbatana he marched back towards 
Babylon, and was met on the way by ambassadors from 
all parts of the known world, who came to do homage to 
the greatest of all kings and conquerors, and also by a 
deputation of Chaldaean priests who warned him of danger 
if at that time he should enter Babylon. He entered it 
nevertheless, though with gloomy forebodings, early in the 
spring of 323 B.C. As this city was the best point of 
communication between the eastern and western parts of 
his dominions, he had selected it to be the capital of his 
vast empire, and accordingly took measures immediately 
on his return for the improvement of its internal condition, 
for the drainage of the swampy lands in its neighbour- 
hood which rendered its climate unhealthy, and also for 
removing obstacles to the safe and easy navigation of the 
great river by which it communicated with the sea. 

His ambition being still, however, unsated, he meditated 
fresh conquests, which, if effected, would have made him 
master of the world from the shores of the Atlantic to 
the Eastern Ocean. But his end was now drawing near. 
The climate of Babylon was malarious, and as his spirits 
were depressed both by his loss of Hephaistidn and 
by superstitious fears, he was less able to withstand its 



4 8 INTRODUCTION 

malignant influences. He caught a fever, and having 
aggravated its virulence by indulging in convivial excesses, 
was cut off in June 323 B.C. at the age of thirty-three, 
and after he had reigned for nearly thirteen years. 
" So passed from the earth," says Bishop Thirlwall, " one 
of the greatest of her sons : great above most for what 
he was in himself, and not, as many who have borne the 
title, for what was given him to effect. Great, not merely 
in the vast compass and the persevering ardour of his 
ambition . . . but in the course which his ambition 
took, in the collateral aims which ennobled and purified 
it, so that it almost grew into one with the highest of 
which man is capable, the desire of knowledge and the 
love of good. In a word, great as one of the benefactors 
of his kind. ... It may be truly asserted that his was 
the first of the great monarchies founded in Asia that 
opened a prospect of progressive improvement, and not 
of continual degradation, to its subjects : it was the first 
that contained any element of moral and intellectual 
progress." This estimate, high as it is, appears to be just 
and sober, and to hold a due balance between the ex- 
travagant eulogiums and the damnatory criticisms of other 
writers such as Mitford, Williams, and Droysen on the 
one hand, and Niebuhr, Sainte-Croix, and Grote on the 
other, who all alike allowed their ethical and political 
proclivities to bias their judgment. 

Alexander was dignified both in 

■ - • , his appearance and in his demeanour. 

\,^ r t --' - He was not above the ordinary height, 

/ iojjj^lf '•»'" but his frame was well built and ex- 

\v ^©vi T tremely muscular. " He was very 

\VVt handsome in person," says Arrian, 

^V " "' devoted to exertion, of an active 

„,„ . , mind and a most heroic courage, tena- 

Fig. 4. — Alexander . & ' 

the gkeat. cious of honour, ever ready to meet 

dangers, indifferent to the pleasures 

of the body, and strictly observant of his religious 

duties." Plutarch tells us that the statues of Alexander 



INTRODUCTION 49 

which most resembled him were those of Lysippos, 
who alone had his permission to represent him in 
marble, and who best hit off the turn of his head, 
which leaned a little to one side. 1 He adds that he was 
of a fair complexion, with a tinge of red in his face and 
upon his breast, and that his breath and whole person 
were so fragrant that they perfumed his under garments. 
In another passage, describing Alexander's habits, the 
same author says that he was very temperate in eating, 
and that he was not so much addicted to wine as he 
was thought to be. What gave rise to this opinion was 
his practice of spending a great deal of time at table. 
The time, however, was passed rather in talking than 
drinking, every cup introducing some long discussion. 
Besides, he never sat long at table except when he had 
abundance of leisure. There was always a magnificence 
at his table, and the expense rose with his fortune till 
it came to the fixed sum of 10,000 drachms for each 
entertainment. As in his dying moments he had given 
orders that his body should be conveyed to Amm6n in 
the Libyan oasis, it was embalmed, and after more than 
two years had been spent in making preparations for its 
removal, it was conveyed with vast pomp in a car of 
wondrous magnificence to Egypt, where it was entombed 
first at Memphis, and afterwards, by the authority of 
Ptolemy, 2 at Alexandreia, the greatest of all the cities 
which he had founded and called after his name. 

Alexander was so prematurely cut off, and was besides 
so much occupied before his death with organising fresh 
expeditions, both maritime and military, that he had no 
time to improve or complete the measures which he had 
initiated for promoting the fusion and securing the per- 
manent unification of the multifarious races comprised 
in his empire. Had he been vouchsafed a longer term 
of life, it seems probable that he would have succeeded 

1 " Edicto vetuit ne quis se praeter a Pausanias, however, says that it 

Apellem Pingeret, aut alius Lysippo was Philadelphos who brought the 

duceret aera Fortis Alexandri vultum body to Alexandreia. 
simulantia. " — Horace. 



5 o INTRODUCTION 

in welding so firmly together all the parts of his dominions 
that centuries might have elapsed before they became 
again disintegrated ; but the dissensions which speedily 
broke out between his great captains, originating in their 
ambition to rule with independent authority, shattered 
his empire and embroiled it in wars which lasted for 
nearly half a century. 

Soon after his death Perdikkas, to whom in his last 
moments he had given his signet-ring, was appointed to 
conduct the government on behalf of the royal family, 
which was held to consist of Arrhidaios, the king's half- 
brother, a man of weak intellect and character, and Queen 
Roxana, who a few months after her husband's death 
gave birth to a son who received the name of Alexander 
Aigos. The satrapies were then divided among the lead- 
ing generals. Perdikkas soon began to use his position 
for the furtherance of his own selfish designs, and having 
secured the support of Eumenes, attempted to crush his 
colleagues and assume all power to himself. He marched 
first into Egypt against Ptolemy, but on the banks of 
the Nile he was defeated and slain in a mutiny of his 
own men 321 B.C. Tidings soon afterwards reached the 
army that Krateros had been defeated and slain in fight- 
ing against Eumenes while marching to assist Ptolemy. 
The office of regent was upon this offered to Ptolemy, 
who declined its acceptance, as he held that the satrapies 
should become independent kingdoms. The army then 
conferred that office, along with the tutelage of the royal 
family, on Antipater of Macedonia, who had crossed over 
into Asia to oppose Perdikkas. A new partition of the 
provinces, which did not differ much from the former, 
was then made at a place in Upper Syria called Tripara- 
deisos. Under this arrangement Ptolemy held Egypt; 
Lysimachos, Thrace ; Antigonos, Phrygia or Central Asia 
Minor ; Seleukos, Babylon ; Antigenes, Sousiana ; Peu- 
kestas, Persia ; Peithon, son of Krateros, Media; Nearchos, 
Pamphylia and Lycia; Arrhidaios, Hellespontine Phrygia; 
Antipater and Polysperchon, Macedonia and Greece. 



INTRODUCTION 51 

Eumenes still held the satrapy at first assigned to him — that 
of Kappadokia, Paphlagonia, and Pontos — and was now the 
leader of those who had been the adherents of Perdikkas. 
He was supported by Alketas, the brother of Perdikkas, 
Peukestas, Attalos, Antigenes, and by the influence of 
Olympias, the mother of Alexander. Besides Perdikkas 
and Krateros, two other great generals had by this time 
disappeared from the scene — Meleager, who had been cut 
off by Perdikkas, and Leonnatos, who had been slain in 
the Lamian war. 

Antigonos was appointed by Antipater to conduct the 
war against Eumenes, and after many fluctuations of 
fortune at last captured him and put him to death. 
This happened early in the year 316 B.C. The fortunes 
of Alexander's empire were then left at the disposal of 
five men — Antigonos, Lysimachos, Ptolemy, Seleukos, 
and Kassander, the son of Antipater, who had died in 
the year 319 B.C. The ambition and ever -increasing 
power of Antigonos soon led his colleagues to form a 
coalition against him, and a long series of hostilities 
followed. In the end Antigonos and his son Demetrios, 
surnamed Poliorketes, were defeated by the confederates 
in the battle of Ipsos in 301 B.C. Antigonos fell on the 
field of battle, and the greater part of his dominions fell 
to the share of Seleukos, whose cavalry and elephants had 
been chiefly instrumental in winning the victory. He 
received as his reward a great part of Asia Minor as well 
as the whole of Syria from the Euphrates to the Mediter- 
ranean. Ptolemy obtained Phoenicia and Hollow Syria, 
but these provinces afterwards gave rise to frequent wars 
between succeeding kings of Egypt and Syria. A war 
in later times broke out between Seleukos and Lysimachos, 
in which the latter was slain in 281 B.C. His kingdom 
of Thrace was afterwards merged in that of Macedonia. 
Thus the empire of Alexander, after a period of incessant 
wars continued for upwards of forty years, was divided 
between the powerful monarchs of Macedonia, Egypt, 
and Syria. 



5 2 INTRODUCTION 

The successors of Seleukos were unable to retain hold 
of their remote eastern dependencies. About the middle 
of the third century B.C. Theodotos or Diodotos, the 




Fig. 5. — Diodotos. 

governor of Baktra, revolted from his grandson Antiochos 
II. and made Baktra an independent kingom. Not long 
afterwards As'6ka, the grandson of Chandragupta, as we 
learn from one of his own inscriptions, 1 sent missionaries 
to the kings of the West to proclaim to them and to their 
subjects the doctrines of Buddhism. The kings named 
in the inscription are Antiyoka (Antiochos II., king of 
Syria), Turamaya (Ptolemy III., Euergetes, king of Egypt), 
Antigona (Antigonas Gonatas, king of Macedonia), Maga 
(Magas, king of Kyrene). About the year 2 1 2 B.C. 
Antiochos III., surnamed the Great, marched eastward to 




Fig. 6. — Antiochos the Great. 

recover Parthia and Baktria which had both revolted from 
the second Antiochos. He was, however, unable, even after 
a war which lasted for some years, to effect the subju- 
gation of these kingdoms, and according!}' concluded a 
treaty with them in which he recognised their independence. 

1 See Note L/ in Appendix. 



INTRODUCTION 53 

With the assistance of the Baktrian sovereign Euthydemos, 
who founded the greatness of the Baktrian monarchy, he 
made an expedition into India, where he renewed the 
alliance with that country which had been formed in the 




!> IK'* 



^s. 



Fig. 7. — Euthydemos. 






days of Sandrokottos. From Sophagasenos, 1 the chief of 
the Indian kings, he obtained a large supply of elephants, 
and then returned to Syria by the route through Arachdsia 
in the year 205 B.C. 

1 This name, transliterates the a personal name but an official title. 
Sanskrit Subhagasena, which was not See Lassen, Ind. Alt. II. p. 273. 



ARRIAN 



tf 



S O U A g/r ENE ($ 



a fr 



4Pa/as 



Qho^€- 



ftmar JV 



-* -*(M 



c5 i Massaga 



/ 






P^ 



^SK^ fOUARSW 

Ejnbtylirna, 



I Bazdna 

VPeutMiiotlP W 

_ Abisanes 

K &ttocjt 

TAX I LA? 



/•; 






p opiniiiiai 



ManikycJa^ 



Edwarde a abud 
(BaimuJ 



Ghakwal 

Bukel 

^ Oronenut Soft Mi/tes 




JMLam.9 



'/ftyaoriO 



mber 



yj^—^Bh^a POPOS 



. %$$& oGnjT-aly 



•.w 



A R /rt\ S H 






/oJla 



^y 



■a 



M 



0""-^ /for 

TTulawba / 

'AJVIl' L QS""\ Ajudh»n 

^01* J ! ...-' I'M nMn't 



„i.;]i;ii,.1 



' MottELn 



fi s-4 



+Aa&! 



\f" ' 



T R) A 



' KroTpjr 



0/^'Y D R\A/k A I 

BaimwoJlp-ur 
Alexandria 

lUclih) 

S A B a'g R f 



Milium km 



ALEXANDER'S ROUTE 

IN 

THE PAJSTJAB 

Scale h +.+35.200. 



Note-.- Lints of /tout/ shewn tjius 



.. : ." 



ARRIAN'S ANABASIS 
Fourth Book 

Chapter XXII. — Alexander crosses the Indian Kaukasos to 
invade India and advances to the river Kophen 

After capturing the Rock of Chorienes, Alexander 
went himself to Baktra, but despatched Krateros with 
600 of the Companion Cavalry J and a force of infantry, 
consisting of his own brigade with that of Polysperchon 
and Attalos and that of Alketas, against Katanes and 
Austanes the only chiefs now left in the country of the 
Paraitakenai 2 who still held out against him. In the 
battle which ensued Krateros after a severe struggle proved 
victorious. Katanes fell in the action, while Austanes 
was made prisoner and brought to Alexander. Of the 
barbarians who had followed them to the field, there were 
slain 120 horsemen and about 1500 foot. Krateros after 

1 The Companiqn Cavalry, called Taxila (i.e. Takkasila, the Rock of 
sometimes simply the Companions, the Takkas), situated between the 
were the Royal Horse Guards, a body Indus and Upper Hydaspes. The 
which at the beginningoffhecampaign first part of their name Parai repre- 
consisted of 1500 men, all scions of sents perhaps the Sanskrit parvata, a 
the noblest families of Macedonia and hill, or pah&r (a hill) of the common 
Thessaly. In the course of the war dialect. A tribe of the same name 
their numbers were augmented per- occupied a mountainous part of Media 
haps to 5000, as Mutzell conjectures. (Herod, i. 161), and another is located 

2 The Parai-tak-enai possessed part by Isidoros of Charax between Dran- 
of the mountainous country between giana and Arachosia. Another form 
the upper courses of the Oxus and the of the name is Paraitakai (Arrian, iii. 
Jaxartes. They were perhaps one in 19 ; Strabo, xvi. 736 ; Stephanos 
race with the Takkas of India, who Byz.) 

had a great and flourishing capital, 



5S 



THE INVASION OF INDIA 



the victory led his troops also to Baktra. While Alex- 
ander was here the tragic incident in his history, the 
affair of Kallisthenes and the pages, occurred. 

When spring was now past, 1 he led his army from 
Baktra to invade the Indians, leaving Amyntas in the land 
of the Baktrians with 3500 horse and 10,000 foot. In 
ten days he crossed the Kaukasos 2 and arrived at the city 
of Alexandreia 3 which he had founded in the land of the 
Parapamisadai 4 when he first marched to Baktra. The 
ruler whom he had then set over the city he dismissed 
from his office because he thought he had not discharged 
its duties well. He recruited the population of Alex- 
andreia with fresh settlers from the surrounding district, 
and also with such of his soldiers as were unfit for further 
service. 6 He then ordered Nikanor, one of the Companions, 
to take charge of the city itself and regulate its affairs, 
but he appointed Tyriaspes satrap of the land of the 



1 The spring of 327 B.C. 

2 Kaukasos here denotes the lofty 
mountain range, now called the 
Central Hindu Kush, which forms 
the northern frontier of Kabul. Its 
native designation was Parapamisos, 
or, as Ptolemy more correctly trans- 
literates it, Paropanisos. Till Alex- 
ander's time these mountains were 
altogether unknown to the Greeks. 
The officers of his army who wrote 
accounts of his Asiatic expedition 
sometimes considered them to be a 
continuation of the Tauros, and some- 
times of the Kaukasos. Arrian, who 
regarded them as an extension of the 
former range, says that the Mace- 
donian soldiers called them Kaukasos 
to flatter Alexander, as if, when he 
had crossed them to enter Baktria, he 
had carried his victorious arms beyond 
Kaukasos. The Greeks of those days, 
it must be observed, had no definite 
knowledge of the mountains to which 
that name was properly applicable, 
but vaguely conceived them to be the 
loftiest and the remotest to be found 
in the eastern parts of the world. The 
pass by which Alexander recrossed 
the Paropanisos was most probably 
the Kushan or Ghorbund Tass. 



3 See Note' A, Alexandreia under 
Kaukasos. 

4 The tribes collectively designated 
Parapamisadai were, according to 
Ptolemy (who calls them Paropan- 
isadai), the five following : — The 
Bolitai, Aristophyloi, Parsioi, Pars- 
yetai, and Ambautai. They lived 
along the spurs of the Hindu Kush, 
chiefly along its southern and eastern 
sides. They thus occupied the whole 
of Kabulistan , and part of Afghanistan. 
The Bolitai were probably the people 
of Kabul, a city which, no doubt, 
represents that which Ptolemy calls 
Karoura (Kaboura?) or Ortospana. 

6 The colonies which Alexander 
planted in the countries he overran 
were of a military character, designed 
to secure the permanence, cohesion, 
and ultimate unification of his con- 
quests. The war-worn soldiers whom 
he made colonists were condemned to 
perpetual exile, as may be gathered 
from the fate which overtook the 
colonists who of their own accord left 
liaktra and attempted to return to 
Greece. The)' were treated as de- 
serters, and were all put to death. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



59 



Parapamisadai and the rest of the country as far as the 
river Kophen. 1 Having reached the city of Nikaia 2 and 
sacrificed to the goddess Athena, he despatched a herald 
to Taxil£s 3 and the chiefs on this side of the river Indus, 
directing them to meet him where it was most convenient 
for each. Taxiles accordingly and the other chiefs did 
meet him and brought him such presents as are most 
esteemed by the Indians. They offered also to give him 
the elephants which they had with them amounting in 
number to five-and -twenty. 

Having here divided his army, he despatched Hephais- 
ti6n and Perdikkas with the brigades of Gorgias, Kleitos, 4 
and Meleager, half of the companion cavalry, and the 
whole of the mercenary cavalry, to the land of Peukela6tis 6 
and the river Indus. 6 He ordered them either to seize 
by force whatever places lay on their route or to accept 
their submission if they capitulated, and when they came 
to the Indus to make whatever preparations were neces- 
sary for the transport of the army across that river. 



1 This is the Kabul river, called 
otherwise by the classical writers the 
Kdphes, except by Ptolemy, who calls 
it the KSa. Its name in Sanskrit is 
the KubhA. 

2 See Note B. 

3 Taxiles. His distinctive name, 
as we learn from Curtius (viii. 14), was 
Omphis. Diodoros (xvii. 86) less 
accurately calls him Mophis, and says 
that Alexander changed his name to 
Taxiles. This is, however, a mistake, 
for Taxiles was a territorial title which 
each sovereign of Taxila assumed on 
his accession to power. Indian princes 
are generally designated in the classics 
by their territorial or dynastic titles. 
The father of Omphis died about the 
time Alexander was making his pre- 
parations to invade India. 

4 Kleitos had been killed before 
the army left Baktra, but his brigade 
continued to bear his name even after 
his death. 

6 Peukelaotis designated both a dis- 
trict and its capital city. The name is 
a transliteration of Pukkalaoti, which 
is the Pali form of the Sanskrit Push- 
kalavati.the name by which the ancient 



capital of Gandhara was known. 
General Cunningham has fixed its 
position at the two large towns of 
Parang and Charsada, which form part 
of Hashtnagar, or eight cities, that are 
seated close together on the eastern 
bank of the Landa'i or lower Swat 
river. The position thus indicated is 
nearly seventeen miles to the north- 
west of Peshawar. The city was in 
early times a great emporium of com- 
merce. Ptolemy, who with the author 
of the Periplus of the Erythraian sea, 
calls it Proklai's, has correctly located 
it on the eastern bank of the river of 
Souaste"ne, i.e. the river of Swat. 
Wilson, however, and Abbott take 
Pekhely (or Pakholi) in the neigh- 
bourhood of Peshawar to be the 
modern representative of the old 
Gandharian capital {v. Cunningham's 
Anc. Geog. of India, pp. 49-51). 

6 The route assigned to this division 
lay along the course of the Kabul 
river and through the Khaiber Pass to 
Peukelaotis, which was situated where, 
or near where, Hasht-nagar on the 
river Landai now stands. 



60 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

They were accompanied on their march by TaxilSs and 
the other chiefs. On reaching the river Indus they began 
to carry out the instructions which they had received 
from Alexander. One of the chiefs, however, Astes, a 
prince of the land of Peukeladtis, revolted, but perished 
in the attempt, besides involving in ruin the city to which 
he had fled for refuge, which the troops under H£phaisti6n 
captured in thirty days. Astes himself fell, and Sang- 
gaios, 1 who had some time before fled from Astes and 
deserted to Taxiles, a circumstance which guaranteed his 
fidelity to Alexander, was appointed governor of the 
city. 



Chapter XXIII. — Alexander wars against the Aspasians 

Alexander took command in person of the other 
division of the army, consisting of the hypaspists, 2 all 
the companion cavalry except what was with Hephaisti6n, 
the brigades of infantry called the foot-companions, the 
archers, the Agrianians, and the horse lancers, and 
advanced into the country of the Aspasians and Gour- 
aians and Assakenians. 3 The route which he followed 4 

1 This name is perhaps a trans- 3 Aspasioi and Assakenoi. See 
literation of the Sanskrit Sanjaya, Note C. 

which means victor. A Shinwari 4 Strabo (xv. 697) states the reasons 

tribe called Sangu is found inhabiting which led Alexander to select the 

a part of the Nangrihar district west northern route to the Indus in prefer- 

of the Khaiber Pass. ence to the southern. "Alexander 

2 The hypaspists, so called because was informed," he says, "that the 
they carried the round shield called mountainous and northern parts were 
aspis, while the hoplites carried the the most habitable and fertile, but 
oblong shield called hoplon, formed a that the southern part was either 
body of about 3000 men at the outset without water or liable to be over- 
of the war, but were perhaps aug- flowed by rivers at one time, or entirely 
mented to double that number during burnt up at another, more fit to be the 
its progress. They were not so haunts of wild beasts than the dwell- 
heavily armed as the hoplites, and ings of men. He resolved therefore 
were therefore more rapid in their to master first that part of India which 
movements. The foot companions had been well spoken of, considering 
were another distinguished corps of at the same time that the rivers 
guards. The Agrianians, who made which it was necessary to pass, and 
excellent light-armed troops, were a which flowed transversely through the 
Paioman people whose country ad- country which he proposed to attack, 
joined the sources of the river Strym6n. would be crossed with more facility 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 61 

was hilly and rugged, and lay along the course of the 
river called the Khdes, 1 which he had difficulty in cross- 
ing. This done he ordered the mass of the infantry to 
follow leisurely, while he rode rapidly forward, taking 
with him the whole of his cavalry, besides 800 Mace- 
donian foot soldiers, whom he mounted on horseback 
with their infantry shields ; for he had been informed 
that the barbarians inhabiting those parts had fled for 
refuge to their native mountains, and to such of their 
cities as were strongly fortified. When he proceeded to 
attack the first city of this kind that came in his way, he 
found men drawn up before it in battle order, and on 
these he fell at once, just as he was, put them to rout, 
and shut them up within the gates. He was wounded, 
however, in the shoulder by a dart which penetrated 
through his breast-plate, but not severely, for the breast- 
plate prevented the weapon from going right through his 
shoulder. Ptolemy, the son of Lagos, and Leonnatos were 
also wounded. 

He then encamped near the city on the side where he 
thought the wall was weakest. Next day, as soon as 

towards their sources. " The districts ' Kh6es. This is the first river 

through which he passed are now Alexander would reach after he had 

called Kafiristan, Chittral, Swat, and left his encampment near the junction 

the Yusufzai country. It is more of the Panjshir with the Kophen, 

difficult to trace in this than in any which appears to have been the place 

other of his campaigns the course of where he divided his army. It cannot 

his movements, and to identify with have been, as Lassen thought, the 

certainty the various strongholds which Kamah or Kunar, but is rather the 

he attacked. The country through stream formed by the junction of the 

which he passed is but little known Alishang and the Alinghar, which 

even at the present day, and, as Bun- joins the Kophen on the left in the 

bury remarks, a glance at the labyrinth neighbourhood of Mandrour above 

of mountains and valleys, which occupy Jalalabad. The Alinghar river, as 

the whole space in question in the we learn from Masson, is called also 

best modern maps, will sufficiently the Kow. The Koa of Ptolemy 

show how utterly bewildering they must not be confounded with the 

must have been to the officers of Khoes of the text, for that author 

Alexander, who neither used maps in describing the Koa says that it 

nor the compass, and were incapable receives a tributary from the Paro- 

of the simplest geographical observa- panisadai, and that after being joined 

tions. The time occupied by Alex- by the Souastos (the river of Swat) 

ander in marching from the foot of it falls into the Indus. The Koa is 

Kaukasos to the Indus was about a therefore probably the Kophen after 

year. Like Napoleon, he kept the its reception of the Kamah or Kunar 

field even in winter, though in these river, 
parts the cold at that season is intense. 



62 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

there was light, the Macedonians attacked the outer of 
the two walls by which the city was encompassed, and as 
it was but rudely constructed they captured it without 
difficulty. At the inner wall, however, the barbarians 
made some resistance ; but when the ladders were ap- 
plied, and the defenders were galled with darts wherever 
they turned, they no longer stood their ground, but 
issued from the city through the gates and made for the 
hills. Some of them perished in the flight, while such 
as were taken alive were to a man put to death by the 
Macedonians, who were enraged against them for having 
wounded Alexander. Most of them, however, made good 
their escape to the mountains, which lay at no great 
distance from the city. Alexander razed it to the 
ground, and then marched forward to another city called 
Andaka, which surrendered on capitulation. When the 
place had thus fallen into his hands he left Krateros in 
these parts, with the other infantry officers, to take by 
force whatever other cities refused voluntary submission, 
and to settle the affairs of the surrounding district in the 
best way existing circumstances would permit, while he 
himself advanced to the river Euaspla, 1 where the chief 
of the Aspasians was. 



Chapter XXIV. — Operations against the Aspasians 

In this expedition Alexander took with him the 
hypaspists, the archers, the Agrianians, the brigade of 
Koinos and Attalos, the cavalry guard, about four squadrons 
of the other companion cavalry, and one half of the 
mounted archers. After a long march he reached, on 

1 Euaspla R. This name, which, so waters and the length of its course, 

far as I know, occurs only in Arrian, It rises at the foot of the plateau of 

has not been satisfactorily explained. Pamtr, not far from the sources of the 

It designated, no doubt, the river Oxus, and joins the Kophen at some 

which Aristotle, Strabo, and Curtius distance below TaUlabad. Strabo 

call the Choaspes, ami which the best says that the Choaspes traverses 

authorities identify with the Kamah Bandobcne (Badakshan) and Gand- 

?L V'™-' a nVcr whlch rivals the arttis aftel " having passed near the 
Kophen itself in the volume of its towns of l'legerion and Gorydale. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 63 

the second day, the city of the Aspasian chief. 1 The 
barbarians on hearing of his approach set fire to their 
city and fled to the mountains. But Alexander's men 
followed close at the heels of the fugitives, as far as 
the mountains, and made a great slaughter^ of the bar- 
barians before they could escape to rough and difficult 
ground. 

During the pursuit Ptolemy, the son of Lagos, descried 
the chief of the Indians of that country standing at the 
time on a small eminence, with some of his shield-bearing 
guards around him, and, although his own following was 
much smaller, he nevertheless continued the chase, being 
still on horseback. When the ascent, however, became 
so difficult that his charger could no longer mount it at a 
good pace, he left him there, and handing him over to 
one of the hypaspists to lead, he proceeded on foot, 
just as he was, to come up with the Indian. The latter 
on seeing that Ptolemy was now near at hand, turned 
round to face him, as did also his shield-bearing guards. 
The Indian, closing with his adversary, struck him on the 
breast with a long spear which pierced his cuirass, but 
the cuirass broke all the force of the blow. Ptolemy, on 
the other hand, smote the Indian right through the thigh, 
laid him prone at his feet, and stripped him of his arms. 
When his men saw their leader lying dead they left the 
place, but the other Indians, when they saw on looking 
from the mountains that the dead body of their chief was 
being carried off by the enemy, were filled with grief and 
rage, and rushing down to the small eminence fought for 
the recovery of the corpse with the utmost determination ; 
for by this time Alexander also was on the eminence, and 
had brought with him the infantry soldiers, who had now 
alighted from their horses. This reinforcement falling 
upon the Indians succeeded after a hard struggle in 
driving them off to the mountains and securing the 
possession of the dead body. 

Alexander then crossed the mountains, and came to a 

1 The capital of this chief was probably Gorys on the Choaspes. 



64 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

city at their base, named Arigaion. 1 He found that the 
inhabitants had burned the place and taken to flight. 
Here Krateros, with his staff and the troops under his 
command, rejoined him, after having fully carried out all the 
orders given by the king. As the city seemed to occupy 
a very advantageous site, he commanded Krateros to 
fortify it strongly, and people it with as many natives of 
the neighbourhood as should consent to make it their 
home, together with any soldiers found unfit for further 
service. He then marched to a place where, as he had 
ascertained, most of the barbarians of that part of the 
country had taken refuge, and on reaching a certain 
mountain encamped at its base. 

Meanwhile Ptolemy, the son of Lagos, who had been 
sent out by Alexander to procure forage, and had gone 
with a few followers a considerable distance in advance 
to reconnoitre the enemy, came back to Alexander to 
report that he had seen more fires where the barbarians 
were posted than in Alexander's camp. Alexander, without 
believing that the fires were so numerous, was still con- 
vinced that a host of barbarians had mustered together 
from the surrounding country, and therefore leaving a 
part of his army where it was encamped in proximity to 
the mountain, he took with him such a force as the 
reports led him to think would be adequate, and when 
the fires were near in view, he divided it into three parts. 
The command of one part he gave to Leonnatos, an 
officer of the bodyguard, placing under him the brigade 
of Attalos, along with that of Balakros. The command 
of the second division he gave to Ptolemy, the son of 
Lagos. It consisted of a third of the royal hypaspists, 

1 Arigaion. This place, which calls Daedali, whereto he says Alex- 
was situated to the east of the ander led his troops after the Bac- 
Choaspes, is perhaps now represented chanalian revelry with which they had 
by Naoghi, a village in the province been indulged at Nysa. There is no 
of Bajore. Ritter identified it with mention elsewhere of Arigaion, unless 
Bajore or Bagawar, the capital of this it be the ." Argacum urbem" of the 
province. _ The mountains to which Itin.r. Alex. 105. It is taken by 
the inhabitants fled for refuge may Schneider to be the Acadira of 
perhaps, as V. de Saint-Martin sug- Curlius. 
gests, be those which Justin (xii. 7) 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 65 

together with the brigade of Philippos and Phil6tas, two 
companies of archers, each a thousand strong, the Agri- 
anians, and half of the horsemen. The third division 
Alexander led in person against the position occupied by 
the main body of the barbarians. 



Chapter XXV. — Defeat of the Aspasians — The 
Assakenians and Gouraians attacked 

When they saw the Macedonians advancing against 
them they came down from the high ground which they 
had occupied into the plain below, confident in their 
numbers, and despising the Macedonians for the small- 
ness of theirs. A sharp conflict followed, but Alexander 
without much trouble gained the victory. Ptolemy did 
not draw up his men in line upon the plain, but since 
the barbarians were posted on a small hill, he formed his 
battalions into column, and led them up the hill on the 
side where it was most assailable. He did not surround 
the entire circuit of the hill, but left an opening for the 
barbarians by which to escape if they meant flight. 
With these men also the conflict was sharp, not only 
from the difficult nature of the ground, but also because 
the Indians were of a different mettle from the other 
barbarians there, and were by far the stoutest warriors 
in that neighbourhood ; but brave as they were they 
were driven from the hill by the Macedonians. The 
men of the third division under Leonnatos were equally 
successful, as they also routed those with whom they 
engaged. Ptolemy states that the men taken prisoners 
were in all above 40,000, and that there were also cap- 
tured more than 230,000 oxen, from which Alexander 
chose out the best — those which he thought superior to 
the others both for beauty and size — with a view to send 
them to Macedonia to be employed in agriculture. 

He marched thence to invade the country of the 
Assakenians, for they were reported to have under arms 

F 



66 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

and ready for battle an army of 20,000 cavalry and 
more than 30,000 infantry, besides 30 elephants. 
Krateros had now completed the work of fortifying the 
city which he had been left to plant with colonists, and 
rejoined Alexander with the heavy armed troops and 
the engines which it might be necessary to employ in 
besieging towns. Alexander himself then proceeded to 
attack the Assakenians, taking with him the companion 
cavalry, the horse archers, the brigade of Koinos and 
Polysperchon, and the thousand Agrianians and the 
archers. He passed through the country of the Gour- 
aians, where he had to cross the Gouraios, 1 the river 
named after that country. The passage was difficult 
on account of the depth and swiftness of the stream, 
and also because the stones at the bottom were so 
smooth and round that the men on stepping on them 
were apt to stumble. When the barbarians saw Alex- 
ander approaching they had not the courage to encounter 
him in the open field with their collective forces, but 
dispersed to their several cities, which they resolved to 
defend to the last extremity. 



Chapter XXVI. — Siege of Massaga 

Alexander marched first to attack Massaga, 2 which was 
the greatest city in those parts. When he was now 
approaching the walls, the barbarians, supported by a body 
of Indian mercenaries brought from a distance, and no less 
than 7000 strong, sallied out with a run against the 
Macedonians when they observed them preparing to en- 
camp. Alexander thus saw that the battle would be 

1 The Gouraios is the river Panj- and wide-spread tribe, branches of 
kora, which unites with the river of which are still to be found on the 
Swat to form the Landai, a large Panjlcora, and also on both sides of 
affluent of the Kabul river. It appears the K&bul River where it is joined by 
under the name of the GauH in the the Landa'i. It formed the boundary 
sixth book of the MalMhArata, where between the Gouraians and the Assa- 
il is mentioned along with the Suvastu kcnians. 
(the Swat river) and the Kampanl 2 Mazaga. See Note D. 
It owes its name to the Gliori, a great 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 67 

fought close to the city, whereas he wished the enemy to 
be drawn away to a distance from the walls, so that, if 
they were defeated, as he was certain they would be, they 
might have less chance of escaping with their lives by a 
short flight into the city. Alexander therefore ordered 
the Macedonians to fall back to a little hill which was 
about seven stadia distant from the place where he had 
meant to encamp. This gave the enemy fresh courage 
as they thought the Macedonians had already given way 
before them, and so they charged them at a running 
pace and without any observance of order. But when 
once their arrows began to reach his men, Alexander 
immediately wheeled round at a signal agreed on and led 
the phalanx at a running pace to fall upon them. But his 
horse-lancers and the Agrianians and the archers darted 
forward, and were the first to come into conflict with the 
barbarians, while he was leading the phalanx in regular 
order into action. The Indians were confounded by this 
unexpected attack, and no sooner found themselves in- 
volved in a hand-to-hand encounter than they gave way 
and fled back to the city. About 200 of them were killed, 
and the rest were shut up within the walls. Alexander 
brought up the phalanx against the fortifications, but was 
wounded in the ankle, though not severely, by an arrow 
shot from the battlements. The next day he brought up 
the military engines, and without much difficulty battered 
down a part of the wall. But when the Macedonians 
attempted to force their way through the breach which had 
been made, the Indians repelled all their attacks with so 
much spirit that Alexander was obliged for that day to draw 
off his forces. On the morrow the Macedonians renewed 
their assault with even greater vigour, and a wooden tower 
was brought up against the wall from which the archers 
shot at the Indians, while missiles were discharged against 
them from engines. They were thus driven back to a 
good distance, but still their assailants were after all unable 
to force their way within the walls. 

On the third day Alexander led the phalanx once more 



68 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

to the assault, and causing a bridge to be thrown from an 
engine over to that part of the wall which had been 
battered down, by that gangway he led the hypaspists over 
to the breach — the same men who by a similar expedient 
had enabled him to capture Tyre. The bridge, however, 
broke down under the great throng which was pushing 
forward with eager haste, and the Macedonians fell with 
it. The barbarians on the walls, seeing what had happened, 
began amid loud cheering to ply the Macedonians with 
stones and arrows and whatever missiles they had ready 
at hand or could at the moment snatch up, while others 
sallying out from posterns in the wall between the towers, 
struck them at close quarters before they could extricate 
themselves from the confusion caused by the accident. 



Chapter XXVII. — Massaga taken by storm — Ora-and 
Bazira besieged 

Alexander then sent Alketas with his brigade to take 
up the wounded and recall to the camp the active com- 
batants. On the fourth day another gangway on a 
different engine was despatched by him against the wall. 

Now the Indians, as long as the chief of that place was 
still living, continued with great vigour to maintain the 
defence, but when he was struck by a missile from an 
engine and was killed by the blow, while some of them- 
selves had fallen in the uninterrupted siege, and most of 
them were wounded and disabled for fighting, they sent 
a herald to treat with Alexander. To him it was 
always a pleasure to save the lives of brave men, and he 
came to an agreement with the Indian mercenaries to 
the effect that they should change their side and take 
service in his ranks. Upon this they left the city, arms 
in hand, and encamped by themselves on a small hill 
which faced the camp of the Macedonians. But as they 
had no wish to take up arms against their own countrymen, 
they resolved to arise by night and make off with all 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 69 

speed to their homes. When Alexander was informed of 
this he surrounded the hill that same night with all his 
troops, and having thus intercepted the Indians in the 
midst of their flight, cut them to pieces. The city now 
stripped of its defenders he took by storm, and captured 
the mother and daughter of Assakenos. 1 Alexander lost 
in the siege from first to last five-and-twenty of his men 
in all. 

He then despatched Koinos to Bazira, 2 convinced that 
the inhabitants would capitulate on learning that Massaga 
had been captured. He, moreover, sent Attalos, Alketas, 
and D£metrios, the captain of cavalry, to another city, 
Ora, instructing them to draw a rampart round it, and to 
invest it until his own arrival. The inhabitants of this 
place sallied out against the troops under Alketas, but the 
Macedonians had no great difficulty in routing them, and 
driving them back within the walls of the city. As regards 
Koinos, matters did not go well with him at Bazira, for as 
it stood on a very lofty eminence, and was strongly fortified 
in every quarter, the people trusted to the strength of their 
position and made no proposals about surrendering. 

Alexander, on learning this, set out for Bazira, but as 
he knew that some of the barbarians of the neighbouring 
country were going to steal unobserved into the city of 
Ora, having been sent by Abisares 3 for this very purpose, 
he directed his march first to that city. He then sent 
orders to Koinos to fortify some strong position as a basis 
of operations against the city of the Bazirians, and to leave 
in it a sufficient garrison to prevent the inhabitants from 

1 Alexander seems to have treated that region of mountain-girt valleys, 
these mercenaries with less than his now called Hazara, which lies between 
usual generosity towards brave ene- the Indus and the upper Hydaspes. 
mies. Plutarch reprobates his slaugh- In Hazdra the ancient name of the 
ter of them as a foul blot on his country seems to be preserved. It 
military fame. The attack upon the has been supposed, but less reason- 
city after it had capitulated on terms ably, that the district was so called 
admits of no justification. from the great number of its petty 

2 See Note E. chiefs, hazdra being the numeral for 

3 Abisares. Arrian in a subsequent a thousand (in Persian). Abisares 
passage calls this chief King of the was a very powerful prince, and it is 
Mountaineer Indians. His name supposed with reason that Kashmir 
shows that he ruled over Abhisara, was subject to his sway. 



70 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

going into the country around for provisions without 
fear of danger. He was then to join Alexander with the 
remainder of his troops. When the men of Bazira saw 
Koinos departing with the bulk of his troops they regarded 
the Macedonians who remained, as contemptible antago- 
nists, and sallied out into the plain to attack them. A 
sharp conflict ensued in which 5 00 of the barbarians were 
slain, and upwards of 70 taken prisoners. The rest fled 
together into the city and were more rigorously than ever 
debarred all access to the country by the garrison of the 
fort. The siege of Ora did not cost Alexander much 
labour, for he captured the place at the first assault, and 
got possession of all the elephants which had been left 
therein. 



Chapter XX VIII. — Bazira captured — Alexander marches 
to the rock Aornos 

When the inhabitants of Bazira heard that Ora had 
fallen, they regarded their case as desperate, and at the 
dead of night fled from their city to the Rock, as all the 
other barbarians were doing, for, having left their cities, 
they were fleeing to the rock in that land called Aornos; 1 
for this is a mighty mass of rock in that part of the 
country, and a report is current concerning it that even 
Herakles, the son of Zeus, had found it to be impregnable 
Now whether the Theban, or the Tyrian, or the Egyptian 
Herakles penetrated so far as to the Indians 2 I can neither 

2 ^u n ° S ; r S ?, e Note TI F - , dedicated to Herakles." The name 

„» ,.\«-' ?T H< ? odotos (»• °f the Egyptian Herakles was Dsona 

the" FWio „° ne °^ fu° lent S °, ds ° f or Ch6n ' or ' ^cording to Pausanias, 

elves^fwn, U^' aS they , S % y th£ f ■ Makeris > and thilt ° f *e Tyrian was 

etn ' a! ?7 'T ye £* bef °r the MclkBrt - Th «e were more ancient 

[hel Lt w ' W ll \ e ™»*er of than the Theban Herakles, the son of 

o twflv Zf '.""^ffro" eight Zeus and Alkmene. The Indian 

accoZL'on A") , • lalc, , CS ■ was ""raW**, called Dorsanes, who, ac- 

ofobta nirT, , — ^ . de81 , rous COldin g t0 A "' ian > W the father of 

whoever £'"7 lnf ™°!| *°» ^™> has been identified with 

TvreTn PWnV ^ '' * ^ t0 S ' iva - bl,t nls ° with Balarama, the 

bin infnn,? ? ?' ***"■'• " S * lmd ci B ,rth avatar of Vishnu. Diodte 

been informed, there was a temple (ii. J9 ) ascribes to him the building of 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



71 



positively affirm nor deny, but I incline to think that he 
did not penetrate so far ; for we know how common it 
is for men when speaking of things that are difficult 
to magnify the difficulty by declaring that it would 




Fig. 8. — The Tyeian Herakles. 

baffle even Herakles himself. And in the case of this 
rock my own conviction is that Herakles was mentioned 
to make the story of its capture all the more wonderful. 
The rock is said to have had a circuit of about 200 stadia, 
and at its lowest elevation a height of eleven stadia. 1 It was 
ascended by a single path cut by the hand of man, yet 
difficult. On the summit of the rock there was, it is also 
said, plenty of pure water which gushed out from a copious 
spring. There was timber besides, and as much good 
arable land as required for its cultivation the labour of a 
thousand men. 

Alexander on learning these particulars was seized 
with an ardent desire to capture this mountain also, the 
story current about Herakles not being the least of the 
incentives. I With this in view he made Ora and Massaga 
strongholds for bridling the districts around them, and at 
the same time strengthened the defences of Bazira. The 
division under Hephaistion and Perdikkas fortified for him 



the walls and of the palace of Pali- 
bothra (now Patna). Arrian in the 
second book of this work (c. 16) 
distinguishes the Tyrian Herakles 
from the Egyptian and Argive or 
Theban. The latter, he says, lived 
about the time of Oidipous, son of 
Laios. 



1 The Olympic stadium, which was 
the chief Greek measure for itinerary 
distances, was equal to 600 Greek 
feet, 625 Roman feet, and 606 feet 9 
inches English. The stadium of this 
length was the only one in use before 
the third century of our aera. 



72 



THE INVASION OF INDIA 



another city called Orobatis 1 in which they left a garrison 
and then marched on to the river Indus. On reaching it 
they began preparing a bridge to span the Indus in 
accordance with Alexander's orders. 

Alexander now appointed Nikanor, one of the com- 
panions, satrap of the country on this side of the Indus, 2 
and then first marched himself towards that river and 
received the submission of the city of Peukelaotis which 
lay not far from the Indus. He placed in it a garrison of 
Macedonian soldiers under the command of Philippos, and 
then occupied himself in reducing other towns — some 
small ones — situated near the river Indus. 3 He was 
accompanied on this occasion by Kdphaios and Assager.es 
the local chiefs. 4 On reaching Embolima, 6 a city close 



1 The site of Orobatis must be 
sought for in the district west of Peu- 
kelaotis, through which Hephaistion 
advanced on his way to the Indus. 
The position and name of Arabutt, a 
village in this locality where ruins 
exist, plainly show its identity with 
the Orobatis of the text. It is situ- 
ated on the left bank of the Landa'i, 
and is near Naoshera. It is probably 
the Oroppa of the Ravenna geo- 
grapher. 

* Nikanor was succeeded in this 
office by Philippos, who was placed 
in command of the garrison of Peu- 
kelaotis. 

s Peukelaotis, as has been stated, 
stood on the Landa'i at a distance of 
seventeen miles north-west from Pesha- 
war. Alexander after the fall of Bazira 
moved westwards toward that river, 
judging it expedient before attacking 
the Rock to reduce all the yet un- 
conquered region west of the Indus. 
He took Peukelaotis, and then directed 
his march eastward till he approached 
the -embouchure of the K6phen, 
whence turning northwards he ad- 
vanced up the right bank of the Indus 
till he reached Embolima, about eight 
miles distant from Aornos, and as 
high up the river as an army could go. 

4 Kophaios, to judge from his name 
and from what is here stated, must 
have been the ruler of the valley of 
the lower Kophen or Kabul river. 



Hence it is unlikely, as some have 
supposed, that the dominions of 
Taxilfe lay partly in the country west 
of the Indus. I find nothing any- 
where in the classical writers lending 
countenance to such a supposition. 
The name of Assagetes is probably a 
transliteration into Greek of the Sans- 
krit As'vajit, ' ' gaining horses by 
conquest. " 

6 Ritter taking Embolima to be a 
word of Greek origin, equivalent in 
meaning to <?kj3o\t7, " the mouth of a 
river," thought that this place lay 
opposite to Attak, in the angle of land 
where the Kophen discharges into the 
Indus, and was thus led to identify 
Aornos with the hill in that locality 
on which the fort of Raja Hodi 
stands. Embolima appears, however, 
to be rather a combination of two 
native names, Amb and Balimah. 
Amb is the name of a fort, now in 
ruins, from which runs the ordinary 
path up to the summit of Mahaban. 
It crowns a position of remarkable 
strength, which faces Derbend, a small 
town on the opposite side of the Indus. 
Not far westward from this fort, and 
on the same spur of the Mahaban, 
there is another fort also in ruins, 
which preserves to this day in the 
tradition of the inhabitants the name 
of Balimah. It is in accordance with 
Indian custom thus tocombineintoone 
the names of two neighbouring places. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 73 

adjoining the rock of Aornos, 1 he there left Krateros with 
a part of the army to gather into the city as much corn as 
possible and all other requisites for a long stay, that the 
Macedonians having this place as the basis of their 
operations might, during a protracted siege, wear out the 
defenders of the rock by famine, should it fail to be 
captured at the first assault. He himself then advanced 
to the rock, taking with him the archers, the Agrianians, 
the brigade of Koinos, the lightest and best-armed men 
selected from the remainder of the phalanx, 200 of the 
companion cavalry, and 100 horse-archers. At the end 
of the day's march he encamped on what he took to be a 
convenient site. The next day he advanced a little nearer 
to the Rock, and again encamped. 



Chapter XXIX. — Siege of Aornos 

Some men thereupon who belonged to the neighbour- 
hood came to him, and after proffering their submission 
undertook to guide him to the most assailable part of the 
rock, that from which it would not be difficult to capture 
the place. With these men he sent Ptolemy, the son of 
Lagos, a member of the bodyguard, leading the Agrianians 
and the other light-armed troops and the selected hypaspists, 
and directed him, on securing the position, to hold it with 
a strong guard and to signal to him when he had occupied 
it. Ptolemy, who followed a route which proved rough 
and otherwise difficult to traverse, succeeded in occupying 
the position without being perceived by the barbarians. 2 

1 See Note F, Aornos. not probably be contested by the 

2 "All this account," says Abbott, natives, who would concentrate their 
who takes Aornos to be Mount Maha- power to oppose the Macedonians as 
ban, " will answer well for the Maha- they climbed the precipitous fall of 
ban, which is a mountain-table about the main summit. The great extent 
five miles in length at summit, scarped of the mountain, covered as it is with 
on the east by tremendous precipices pine forest, would enable Ptolemy, 
from which descends one large spur under the guidance of natives, to gain 
down upon the Indus between Sitana any distant point of the summit with- 
and Amb. The mountain spur being out observation." 

comparatively easy of ascent would 



74 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

The whole circuit of this he fortified with a palisade 
and a trench, and then raised a beacon on the moun- 
tain from which the flame was likely to be seen by 
Alexander. Alexander did see it, and next day moved 
forward with his army, but as the barbarians obstructed 
his progress he could do nothing more on account of the 
difficult nature of the ground. When the barbarians 
perceived that Alexander had found an attack to be 
impracticable, they turned round, and in full force fell 
upon Ptolemy's men. Between these and the Macedonians 
hard fighting ensued, the Indians making strenuous efforts 
to destroy the palisade by tearing up the stakes, and 
Ptolemy to guard and maintain his position. The bar- 
barians were worsted in the skirmish and when night 
began to fall withdrew. 

From the Indian deserters Alexander selected one 
who knew the country and could otherwise be trusted, 
and sent him by night to Ptolemy with a letter importing 
that when he himself assailed the rock, Ptolemy should 
no longer content himself with defending his position but 
should fall upon the barbarians on the mountain, so that 
the Indians, being attacked in front and rear, might be 
perplexed how to act. Alexander, starting at daybreak 
from his camp, led his army by the route followed by 
Ptolemy when he went up unobserved, being convinced 
that if he forced a passage that way, and effected a 
junction with Ptolemy's men, the work still before him 
would not then be difficult ; and so it turned out ; for up 
to mid-day there continued to be hard fighting between 
the Indians and the Macedonians — the latter forcing their 
way up the ascent, while the former plied them with 
missiles as they ascended. But as the Macedonians did 
not slacken their efforts, ascending the one after the other, 
while those in advance paused to rest, they gained with 
much pain and toil the summit of the pass early in the 
afternoon, and joined Ptolemy's men. His troops being 
now all united, Alexander put them again in motion and 
led them against the rock itself; but to get close up 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 75 

to it was not yet practicable. So came this day to 
its end. 

Next day at dawn he ordered the soldiers to cut a 
hundred stakes per man. When the stakes had been cut 
he began piling them up towards the rock (beginning 
from the crown of the hill on which the camp had been 
pitched) to form a great mound, whence he thought it would 
be possible for arrows and for missiles shot from engines 
to reach the defenders. Every one took part in the work 
helping to advance the mound. Alexander himself was 
present to superintend, commending those that were intent 
on getting the work done, and chastising any one that at 
the moment was idling. 



Chapter XXX. — Capture of Aornos — Advance to 
the Indus 

The army by the first day's work extended the mound 
the length of a stadium, and on the following day the 
slingers by slinging stones at the Indians from the mound 
just constructed, and the bolts shot at them from the 
engines, drove them back whenever they sallied out to 
attack the men engaged upon the mound. The work of 
piling it up thus went on for three days, without inter- 
mission, when on the fourth day a few Macedonians forced 
their way to a small hill which was on a level with the 
rock, and occupied its crest. Alexander without ever 
resting drove the mound towards the hill which the handful 
of men had occupied, his object being to join the two 
together. 

But the Indians terror-struck both by the unheard-of 
audacity of the Macedonians in forcing their way to the 
hill, and also by seeing that this position was now con- 
nected with the mound, abstained from further resistance, 
and, sending their herald to Alexander, professed they 
were willing to surrender the rock if he granted them 
terms of capitulation. But the purpose they had in view 



7 6 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

was to consume the day in spinning out negotiations, and 
to disperse by night to their several homes. When Alex- 
ander saw this he allowed them to start off as well as to 
withdraw the sentinels from the whole circle of outposts. 
He did not himself stir until they began their retreat, but, 
when they did so, he took with him 700 of the body- 
guards and the hypaspists and scaled the rock at the 
point abandoned by the enemy. He was himself the first 
to reach the top, the Macedonians ascending after him 
pulling one another up, some at one place and some at 
another. Then at a preconcerted signal they turned upon 
the retreating barbarians and slew many of them in the 
flight, besides so terrifying some others that in retreating 
they flung themselves down the precipices, and were in con- 
sequence dashed to death. Alexander thus became master 
of the rock which had baffled Herakles himself. He sacri- 
ficed upon it and built a fort, giving the command of its 
garrison to Sisikottos, 1 who long before had in Baktra 
deserted from the Indians to Bessos, but after Alexander 
had conquered the Baktrian land served in his army, and 
showed himself a man worthy of all confidence. 

He then set out from the rock and invaded the land 
of the Assakenians, 2 for he had been apprised that the 
brother of Assakenos, with the elephants and a host of the 
barbarians from the adjoining country, had fled for refuge 
to the mountains of that land. On reaching Dyrta 3 he 
found there were no inhabitants either in the city itself 
or the surrounding district. So next day he sent out 
Nearchos and Antiochos, commanders of the hypaspists, 
the former with the light-armed Agrianians, and the latter 

1 His name seems a transliteration valleys or the mountains by which 

of S'as'igupta, " protected by the they were enclosed. Dyrta probably 

moon." , lay to the north of Mahaban, near 

3 That is the eastern part of their the point where the Indus issues from 

country. He had already reduced the the mountains. Court's opinion that 

western and the capital Massaga. Dyrta was a place so far remote from 

3 On descending the Mahaban by the rock as Pir, which lies beyond 
its northern or western spurs, Alex- the TanjUora river, seems altogether 
ander would have found himself in improbable. Vet it is adopted by 
the valleys of Chumla and Buncr. Lassen, though the regions in which 
The fugitives from the rock would Dir is situated had already been sub- 
no doubt flee for shelter to these dued. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 77 

with his own regiment and other two regiments besides. 
They were despatched to examine the nature of the 
localities, and to capture, if possible, some of the bar- 
barians who might give information about the state of 
matters in the country, and particularly about the 
elephants, as he was very anxious to know where 
they were. 

He himself now marched towards the river Indus, and 
the army going on before made a road for him, without 
which there would have been no means of passing through 
that part of the country. 1 He there captured a few of 
the barbarians, from whom he learned that the Indians of 
the country had fled away for refuge to Abisares, 2 but had 
left their elephants there at pasture near the river Indus. 
He ordered these men to show him the way to the 
elephants. Now many of the Indians are elephant 
hunters, 3 and men of this class found favour with him 
and were kept in his retinue, and on this occasion he 
went with them in pursuit of the elephants. Two of 
these animals were killed in the chase by throwing them- 
selves down a steep place, but the others on being caught 
suffered drivers to mount them, and were added to the 
army. He was further fortunate in finding serviceable 
timber 4 along the river, and this was cut for him by the 
army and employed in building boats. These were 
taken down the river Indus to the bridge which a 

1 " This road," says Abbott, "was to cross over to the left bank of the 
probably the path leading amongst Indus. 

precipices above and along the torrent 3 Arrian in his Indika (c. 14) has 
of the Burindu, a river which, after described the mode of elephant hunt- 
watering the valleys of Buner and ing practised by the Indians. It is 
Chumla, flows into the Indus above still in vogue. 

Amb. The path even now is very i Abbott points out that at Amb 

difficult. This would have brought large quantities of drift timber are 

Alexander back to Amb." On this yearly arrested at an eddy near Der- 

route probably lay the pass which bend. It is probable, he thinks, that 

the chief called Eryx by Curtius the pine forest in those days descended 

and Aphrikes by Diodoros attempted, lower down the river than it does at 

but unsuccessfully, to defend against present. At one time forests of fine 

Alexander. The river Burindu above sisoo, mulberry, and willow timber 

mentioned may be identified with the grew along both banks of the Indus 

Parenos of the Greek writers. at that part of its course. 

2 In doing so they had of course 



78 



THE INVASION OF INDIA 



good while before this Hephaistion and Perdikkas had 
constructed. 1 



1 The bridge in all probability 
spanned the Indus near Attak, which 
stands on a steep and lofty part of 
the left bank about two miles below 
the junction of the Kabul and Indus. 
The width of the latter river at the 
fortress of Attak is, according to 
Lieutenant Wood who measured it, 
286 yards. A little lower down 
where the channel is usually spanned 
by a bridge of boats it varies, as 
stated by Vigne, from 80 to 120 yards. 
According to Cunningham, the bridge 
was made higher up the river, at 
Ohind. From Alexander's campaign 
north of the Kabul river, General 



Chesney (in a lecture at Simla) hints 
that a moral may be drawn : — "We 
have been accustomed," he says, "to 
consider the country north of the Kabul 
river as virtually impregnable. The 
march of Alexander's army is a practi- 
cal proof to the contrary, and although 
he was not burdened with artillery, 
and had apparently only mule trans- 
port, yet the Greek soldiers all 
marched in heavy armour, which 
must have added greatly to the 
difficulties of warfare among those 
mountains. There is an obvious 
moral to be drawn by us from these 
incidents." 



Fifth Book 

Chapter I. — Alexander at Nysa 

In the country traversed by Alexander between the 
Kophen and the river Indus, they say that besides the 
cities already mentioned, there stood also the city of 
Nysa, 1 which owed its foundation to Dionysos, and that 
Dionysos founded it when he conquered the Indians, 
whoever this Dionysos in reality was, and when or 
whencesoever he made his expedition against the Indians; 
for I have no means of deciding whether the Theban 
Dionysos setting out either from Thebes or the Lydian 
Tm61os 2 marched with an army against the Indians, 
passing through a great many warlike nations unknown 
to the Greeks of those days, but without subjugating 
any of them by force of arms except only the Indian 
nations ; all I know is, that one is not called on to sift 
minutely the legends of antiquity concerning the gods ; 
for things that are not credible, if one reasons as to their 
consistency with the course of nature, do not seem to be 
incredible altogether if one takes the divine agency into 
account. 

When Alexander came to Nysa, the Nysaians sent out 
to him their president, whose name was Akouphis, 3 and 
along with him thirty deputies of their most eminent 
citizens, to entreat him to spare the city for the sake of 

1 See Note G, Nysa. considered to be a favourite haunt of 

2 Mount TmSlos, as we learn the wine-god. 

from Virgil, Ovid, and Pliny, was 3 As the Greek represents the bk 

famous for its vines. It was therefore of Sanskrit, his name would hzAkubhi. 



8o THE INVASION OF INDIA 

the god. The deputies, it is said, on entering Alexander's 
tent found him sitting in his armour, covered with dust 
from his journey, wearing his helmet and grasping his 
spear. They fell to the ground in amazement at the sight, 
and remained for a long time silent. But when Alexander 
had bidden them rise and to be of good courage, then 
Akouphis taking up speech thus addressed him. 

" The Nysaians entreat you, O King ! to permit them 
to be still free and to be governed by their own laws 
from reverence towards Dionysos ; for when Dionysos 
after conquering the Indian nation was returning to the 
shores of Greece he founded with his war-worn soldiers, 
who were also his bacchanals, this very city to be a 
memorial to posterity of his wanderings and his victory, 
just as you have founded yourself an Alexandreia near 
Kaukasos, and another Alexandreia in the land of the 
Egyptians, not to speak of many others, some of which 
you have already founded, while others will follow in 
the course of time, just as your achievements exceed in 
number those displayed by Dionysos. Now Dionysos 
called our city Nysa, and our land the Nysaian, after 
the name of his nurse Nysa ; and he besides gave 
to the mountain which lies near the city the name of 
Meros, because according to the legend he grew, before 
his birth, in the thigh of Zeus. And from his time forth 
we inhabit Nysa as a free city, and are governed by our 
own laws, and are a well-ordered community. But that 
Dionysos was our founder, take this as a proof, that ivy 
which grows nowhere else in the land of the Indians, 
grows with us." 1 



Chapter II. — Alexander permits the Nysaians to retain their 
Autonomy — Visits Mount MCtos 

It gratified Alexander to hear all this, for he was 
desirous that the legends concerning the wanderings of 
1 Ivy abounds, however, in Ilazilra as well as in some other parts of India. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 81 

Dionysos should be believed, as well as that Nysa owed 
its foundation to Dionysos, since he had himself reached 
the place to which that deity had come, and meant to 
penetrate farther than he ; for the Macedonians, he 
thought, would not refuse to share his toils if he advanced 
with an ambition to rival the exploits of Dionysos. He 
therefore confirmed the inhabitants of Nysa in the enjoy- 
ment of their freedom and their own laws ; and when he 
enquired about their laws, he praised them because the 
government of their state was in the hands of the 
aristocracy. He moreover requested them to send with 
him 300 of their horsemen, together with 100 of their 
best men selected from the governing body, which con- 
sisted of 300 members. He then asked Akouphis, whom 
he appointed governor of the Nysaian land, to make the 
selection. When Akouphis heard this, he is said to have 
smiled at the request, and when Alexander asked him 
why he laughed, to have replied, " How, O King ! can a 
single city if deprived of a hundred of its best men con- 
tinue to be well-governed ? But if you have the welfare 
of the Nysaians at heart, take with you the 3 00 horsemen, 
or, if you wish, even more ; but instead of the hundred of 
our best men you have asked me to select, take with you 
twice that number of our worst men, so that on your 
returning hither you may find the city as well governed 
as it is now.'' By these words he persuaded Alexander, 
who thought he spoke sensibly, and who ordered him to 
send the horsemen without again asking for the hundred 
men who were to have been selected, or even for others 
to supply their place. He requested Akouphis, however, 
to send him his son and his daughter's son to attend him 
on his expedition. 

Alexander felt a strong desire to see the place where 
the Nysaians boasted to have certain memorials of Diony- 
sos. So he went, it is said, to Mount Meros with the 
companion cavalry and the body of foot -guards, and 
found that the mountain abounded with ivy and laurel 
and umbrageous groves of all manner of trees, and that 

G 



82 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

it had also chases supplied with game of every description. 
The Macedonians, to whom the sight of the ivy was par- 
ticularly welcome, as it was the first they had seen for 
a long time (there being no ivy in the land of the Indians, 
even where they have the vine), are said to have set them- 
selves at once to weave ivy chaplets, and, accoutred as they 
were, to have crowned themselves with these, chanting 
the while hymns to Dionysos and invoking the god by 
his different names. 1 Alexander, they say, offered while 
there sacrifice to Dionysos and feasted with his friends. 
Some even go so far as to allege, if any one cares to 
believe such things, that many of his courtiers, Mace- 
donians of no mean rank, while invoking Dionysos, 
and wreathed with ivy crowns, were seized with the 
inspiration of the god, raised in his honour shouts of 
Evoi, and revelled like Bacchanals celebrating the orgies. 



Chapter III. — How Eratosthenes views the legends con- 
cerning Herakles and Dionysos — Alexander crosses 
the Indus 

Any one who hears these stories is free to believe them 
or disbelieve them as he chooses. For my own part, I 
do not altogether agree with Eratosthenes the Kyrenian, 
who says that all these references to the deity were 
circulated by the Macedonians in connection with the 
deeds of Alexander, to gratify his pride by grossly 
exaggerating their importance. For, to take an instance, 
he says that the Macedonians, on seeing a cavern among 
the Paropamisadai, and either hearing some local legend 
about it, or inventing one themselves, spread a report 
that this was beyond doubt the cave in which Prometheus 
had been bound, and to which the eagle resorted to prey 
upon his vitals, until Herakles, coming that way, slew the 

T„,\ HiS ' her . name T s A w «e Bacchos, Bromios, and among the Romans 
Iacchos, Lyaios, Lcnaios, Evios, Liber also. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 83 

eagle and freed Prometheus from his bonds. 1 And again, 
he says that the Macedonians transferred the name of 
Mount Kaukasos from Pontos to the eastern parts of the 
world and the land of the Paropamisadai adjacent to 
India (for they called Mount Paropamisos, Kaukasos), to 
enhance the glory of Alexander as if he had passed over 
Kaukasos. And again, he says that when the Mace- 
donians saw in India itself oxen marked with a brand in 
the form of a club, they took this as a proof that Herakles 
had gone as far as the Indians. Eratosthenes has like- 
wise no belief in similar stories about the wanderings of 
Dionysos. Whether or not the accounts about them are 
true, I cannot decide, and so leave them. 

When Alexander arrived at the river Indus he found 
a bridge already made over it by Hephaistion, and two 
thirty-oared galleys, besides a great many small boats. 
He found also a present which had been sent by Taxiles 
the Indian, consisting of 200 talents of silver, 3000 oxen 
fattened for the shambles, 10,000 sheep or more, and 30 
elephants. |The same prince had also sent to his assist- 
ance a force of 700 horsemen, and these brought word 
that Taxiles surrendered into his hands his capital Taxila, 
the greatest of all the cities between the river Indus and 
the Hydaspes. Alexander there offered sacrifices to the 
gods to whom it was his custom to sacrifice, and enter- 
tained his army with gymnastic and equestrian contests 

1 Arrian writes to the same effect the eagle which preyed upon the 

in his Indika, c. 5: "When the vitals of Promgtheus the Titan. At 

Greeks noticed a cave in the domin- Bamian, which lies on one of the 

ions of the Paropamisadai, they routes from Kabul to Baktria, there 

asserted that it was the cave of Pro- are some very notable caves, one of 

metheus the Titan, in which he had which", some think, must have been 

been suspended for stealing the fire." that which the Greeks took to be the 

At the distance of thirty-four miles cave of Prometheus. But Alexander 

from Birikot, a place near the river does not appear to have selected the 

Swat, is Daityapur, now called Daiti- Bamian route either in crossing or 

Kalli, said to have been built by one recrossing the Kaukasos. Themoun- 

of the Daityas, i.e. enemies of the gods, tains of the real Kaukasos were the 

such as were the Titans of the Greeks. loftiest known to the Greeks before 

In the hill adjacent is a vast cavern Alexander's time, and hence to have 

which, as Abbott has suggested, the crossed them was regarded as a tran- 

companions of Alexander may have scendent achievement, 
taken to be the cave frequented by 



g 4 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

on the banks of the river. The sacrifices proved to be 
favourable for his undertaking the passage. 



Chapter IV. — General description of the Indus 
and of the people of India 

That the Indus is the greatest of all the rivers of 
Asia, except the Ganges, which is itself an Indian river; 
that its sources lie on this side of the Paropamisos or 
Kaukasos ; 1 that it falls into the great sea which washes 
the shores of India towards the south wind ; that it has 
two mouths, both of which outlets abound with shallows, 
like the five mouths of the Ister ; and that it forms a 
delta in the land of the Indians closely resembling the 
Egyptian Delta, and that this is called in the Indian tongue 
Patala, 2 let this be my description of the Indus, setting 
forth those facts which can least be disputed, since the 
Hydaspes and the Akesines and the Hydraotes and the 
Hyphasis, which are also Indian rivers, are considerably 
larger than any other rivers in Asia, but are smaller, I 
may even say much smaller, than the Indus, just as also 
the Indus itself is smaller than the Ganges. Indeed, 
Ktesias (if any one thinks him a proper authority) states 

1 Arrian, like other ancient writers, mans to all the provinces in India 
supposed that the Indus had its sources that lay towards sunset. Cunning- 
in those mountains from which it ham, however, suggests that PataB, 
emerges into the plains some sixtymiles a Sanskrit word meaning tie trumpet- 
above Attak. It is now known that jlower (bignouia siiai'eoUns) may have 
it rises in Tibet on a lofty Himalayan given its name to the Delta " in allu- 
peak, Mount Kailasa, famous in sion," he says, "to the 'trumpet' 
Hindu fable as the residence of S'iva shape of the province included be- 
and the Paradise of Kuvera, and tween the cast em and western branches 
that before it issues into the plains it of the mouth of the Indus, as the two 
has nearly run the half of its course branches as they approach the sea 
of about 1S00 miles. The number of curve outwards like the mouth of a 
its mouths has varied from time to trumpet." But could the idea of 
time. Ptolemy, the geographer, gives such a resemblance have occurred to 
it seven. ^ the minds of the Indians unless maps 

2 Patala in Sanskrit mythology were in use among them? For a 
denotes the intdci world — the abode better etymology see Note U. It has 
of snakes and demons— to which the beenconclusivelyprovedthat Haidara- 
sun at the close of day seems to bad is the modern representative of 
descend. It was, therefore, Ritter the ancient Patala. 

says, the name applied by the Brah- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 85 

that where the Indus is narrowest its banks are 40 stadia 
apart, and where broadest 100 stadia, while its ordinary 
breadth is the mean between these two distances. 1 

This river Indus Alexander began to cross at day- 
break with his army to enter the country of the Indians. 
Concerning this people I have, in this present work, 
described neither under what laws they live, nor what 
strange animals their country produces, nor in what 
number and variety fish and water -monsters are bred 
in the Indus, the Hydaspes, the Ganges, and other Indian 
rivers. Nor have I described the ants which dig up gold 
for them, nor its guardians the griffins, 2 nor other stories 
invented rather to amuse than to convey a knowledge of 
facts, since there was no one to expose the falsehood of 
any absurd stories told about the Indians. However, 
Alexander and those who served in his army did expose 
the falsehood of most of them, although some even of these 
very men invented lies of their own. They proved also, 
in contradiction of the common belief, that the Indians were 
goldless, those tribes at least, and they were many, which 
Alexander visited with his army ; and that they were not 
at all luxurious in their style of living, while they were 
of so great a stature 3 that they were amongst the tallest 
men in Asia, being five cubits in height, or nearly so. They 
were blacker than any other men except the Aethiopians, 4 
while in the art of war they were far superior to the other 
nations by which Asia was at that time inhabited. For 

1 The Indus after receiving the the Aethiopic language is, however, 
united streams of the great Panjab purely Semitic, the name, if indi- 
rivers is increased in breadth from genous, must also be Semitic, since, 
600 to 2000 feet. Its breadth is as Salt states, the Abyssinians to 
therefore grossly exaggerated here this day call themselves Itiopjawan. 
unless the extent to which its inunda- Herodotus (vii. 70) speaks of Asiatic 
tions spread beyond its banks enters Aethiopians. These served in the 
into the account. army which Darius led into Greece, 

2 See Note H. and were marshalled with the Indians, 

3 The Afghans and Rajputs are and did not at all differ from the 
still noted for their great stature. others in appearance, but only in 

4 The Greek geographers derived their language and in their hair, 
the name of the Aethiopians from atSio, which was straight, while that of the 
I burn, and Si\j/, the visage, and applied Aethiopians of Libya (Africa) was 
it to all the sun-burnt, dark-corn- woolly. 

plexioned races south of Egypt. As 



86 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

I cannot make any proper comparison between the Indians 
and the race of ancient Persians, who, under the command 
of Cyrus, the son of Kambyses, wrested the supremacy of 
Asia from the Medes, and added to their empire other 
nations, some by conquest and others by voluntary sub- 
mission ; for the Persians of those days were but a poor 
people, inhabiting a rugged country and approximating 
closely in the austerity of their laws and usages to the 
Spartan discipline. 1 Then with regard to the discomfiture 
of the Persians in the Skythian land, I cannot with 
certainty conjecture to what cause it was attributable, 
whether to the difficult nature of the country into which 
they were led, or to some other mistake made by Cyrus, 
or whether it was that the Persians were inferior in the 
art of war to those Skythians whose territories they 
invaded. 2 

Chapter V. — The rivers and mountains of Asia 

However, I shall treat of the Indians in a separate 
work, 3 in which I shall set down whatever seems to be 
most credible in the reports supplied by those who 
accompanied Alexander in his expedition, and by 
Nearchos who made a voyage round the Great Sea which 
adjoins the Indians. I shall then add the accounts of the 
country which were compiled by Megasthenes and 
Eratosthenes, who are both writers of standard authority. 

1 The Persians were originally the - Cyrus is said to have perished in 

inhabitants of that poor and insignifi- this expedition against the Skythians, 

cant province called Persis, which who lived beyond the Jaxartes, and 

was included between the Persian were led by Queen Tomyris. The 

Gulf in the south and Media in the account of this expedition, given by 

north, and which stretched eastward Herodotos in the closing chapters of 



J ■'-- ~.-— - v ....w u ^.»*wt , . m *.» *i^_J. ^J\.V\J\.\JJ 111 Lilt*. W1VJ1IIC \#ll» 

from Susiana (Elam) to the deserts his first book, is examined at ~. 

of Karmania. The great empire by Duncker in the sixth volume of his 

won by their arms, extended from History of Antiquity, pp. 112-124. 

the Mediterranean to the Jaxartes Xenophon represents Cyrus as dying 

and Indus. Xenophon says that the in peace at an advanced age. 
Persians in early times led a life of :; Called the Indika, written in the 

penury and hard toil, as they in- Ionic dialect, and based chiefly on the 

habited a rugged country which they works (now lost) of Megasthenes and 

cultivated with their own hands Nearchos. 
{h'yrop. vii. 5, 67). 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 87 

I shall describe the customs of the Indians and the 
remarkable animals which their country is said to produce, 
and also the voyage which was made by Nearchos in the 
outer sea. 1 In the meantime it will suffice if I content 
myself with describing only what seems requisite to make 
the account of Alexander's operations clearly intelligible. 
Mount Tauros divides Asia, beginning from Mykale, the 
mountain which lies opposite to the island of Samos ; 
then forming the boundary of the country of the Pam- 
phylians and Kilikians, it stretches onwards to Armenia. 
From the Armenians it passes into MSdia, and runs 
through the country of the Parthians and the Khorasmians. 
Reaching Baktria it there unites with Mount Parapamisos, 
which the Macedonians of Alexander's army called the 
Kaukasos, for the purpose, it is said, of magnifying the 
deeds of Alexander, for it could thus be said that he had 
carried his victorious arms even beyond the Kaukasos. 
It is possible, however, that this mountain range may be 
a continuation of that other Kaukasos which is in Skythia, 
in the same way as it is a continuation of the Tauric 
range. For this reason I have before this occasionally 
called this range Kaukasos, and in future I mean to call 
it so. This Kaukasos extends as far as the great Indian 
Ocean in the direction of the east. 2 All the important 
rivers of Asia accordingly rise either in Mount Tauros or 
Mount Kaukasos, and shape their courses some to the 
north, and others to the south. Those which run north- 
ward discharge their waters either into the Maiotic Lake, 
or into the Hyrkanian Sea, which is in reality a gulf of 
the Great Sea. 3 The rivers which run southward are the 

1 The Indian Ocean and Persian 3 Regarding the Mai6tic Lake, 
Gulf, in contrast to the interior sea now generally called the Sea of Azof, 
or Mediterranean. the ancients entertained very hazy 

2 By the Indian Ocean (called and inaccurate notions. They sup- 
immediately afterwards the Great posed it to be situated in the remotest 
Sea) is meant here the Bay of Bengal regions of the earth (Aisch. Prom. 
and the ocean beyond, then unknown, 427), and to be almost equal in size 
which extended to the shores of to the Euxine (Herod, iv. 86). 
China. By the Kaukasos, which ex- Arrian, who might have known better, 
tended to this eastern ocean, is meant seems here to have adopted the crude 
the vast Himalayan range. notion current in Alexander's time 



88 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Euphrates, Tigris, Indus, Hydaspes, Akesines, Hydra6r.es, 
and Hyphasis, together with the rivers between these and 
the Ganges. All these either enter the sea, or, like the 
Euphrates, disappear among the swamps which receive 
their waters. 

Chapter VI. — Position and boundaries of India and how 
its plains may have been formed 

If anyone takes this view of Asia, that it is divided 
by the Tauros and the Kaukasos from west to east, 
then he finds that it is formed by the Tauros itself into 
two great sections, one of which lies towards the south 
and the south wind, and the other towards the north and 
the north wind. The southern section is divided into 
four parts, of which, according to Eratosthenes, India is 
the largest, this being also the opinion of Megasthenes 
who resided with Siburtios the satrap of Arakhdsia, and 
who tells us that he frequently visited Sandrakottos the 
king of the Indians. 1 They say that the smallest part is 
that which is bounded by the river Euphrates, and which 
extends to our own inland sea, while the other two parts 
which lie between the river Euphrates and the Indus will 
scarcely bear comparison with India even if both were 
taken together. They also say that India is bounded 
towards the east and the east wind as far as the south 
by the Great Sea, and towards the north by Mount 
Kaukasos, as far as its junction with the Tauros, while 
the river Indus cuts it off from other countries towards 
the west and the north-west wind as far as the Great Sea. 
The larger portion of India is a plain, and this, as they 
conjecture, has been formed from the alluvial deposits of 

that the Jaxartes (which they con- 1 This does not mean that Megas- 
founded with the Tanais or Don) thenes was sent on frequent em- 
entered by one arm the Hyrknnian or bossies to Sandrakottos, but that 
Kaspian Sea, and by another the during his embassy he had frequent 
Maiotic Lake. The Kaspian itself interviews with him. The former 
was taken to be a gulf of the Great interpretation, however, finds its ad- 
Eastern Ocean, Hcrodotos, however, vocates. 
is guiltless of this geographical heresy. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 89 

the rivers, just as in other countries plains which are not 
far off from the sea are generally formations of their 
respective rivers, a fact which explains why the names of 
such countries were applied of old to their rivers. There 
is, for instance, in the country of Asia the plain of the 
Hermos, a river which rises in the mountain of Mother 
Dindymene, and on its way to the sea flows past the 
Aiolian city of Smyrna. There is again another Lydian 
plain, called that of the Kaystros, which is a Lydian 
river, and another plain in Mysia, that of the Kai'kos, 
and another in Karia, that of the Maiandros, which extends 
as far as the Ionian city of Miletos. In the case of Egypt 
again, the two historians, Herodotos, and Hekataios (or 
at any rate the author of the work on Egypt, if he was 
other than Hekataios) agree in declaring that in the same 
way Egypt was the gift of its river, 1 and clear proofs 
have been adduced by Herodotos in support of this view, 
so that even the country itself got perhaps its name from 
the river, for that in early times Aigyptos was the name 
of the river which the Egyptians and other nations now 
call the Nile the words of Homer sufficiently prove, since 
he says 2 that Menelaos anchored his ships at the mouth 
of the river Aigyptos. Now if the rivers we have men- 
tioned, which are of no great size, can each of them 
separately form in its course to the sea a large tract of 
new country, by carrying down silt and slime from the 
upland districts in which they have their sources, there 
can be no good reason for doubting that India is mostly 
a plain which has been formed by the alluvial deposits of 
its rivers. 3 For if the Hermos and the Kaystros and 
the Kai'kos and the Maiandros and the other rivers of 



1 See Herodotos, ii. 5. Diodoros Indian plains we must have a clear 
applies to Lower Egypt the epithet idea of the part played by these great 
iroraiM>x<>!<;Tos, i. e. deposited by the rivers ; for the rivers first create the 
river. land, then fertilize it, and finally dis- 

2 See Odyssey, iv. 477, 581. tribute its produce. The plains were 
s Modern science confirms this in many parts upheaved by volcanic 

theory. Thus Sir W. Hunter in his action, or deposited in an aqueous 

Brief History of the Indian People, aera long before man appeared on 

says: "In order to understand the the earth. " 



90 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Asia which fall into the inland sea were united, they 
could not be compared in volume of water with one of 
the Indian rivers, and much less with the Ganges, which 
is the greatest of them all, and with which neither the 
volume of the Egyptian Nile, nor the Istros (Danube) 
which flows through Europe, can be for a moment com- 
pared. Nay, the whole of those rivers if combined into 
one would not be equal to the Indus, which is already 
a large river where it' issues from its springs, and which 
after receiving as tributaries fifteen rivers, 1 all greater than 
those of Asia, enters the sea still retaining its own name. 
Let these remarks which I have made about the country 
of the Indians suffice for the present, while I reserve all 
other particulars for my description of India. 



Chapter VII. — The bridging of rivers 

In what manner Alexander made his bridge over the 
Indus neither Aristoboulos nor Ptolemy, the authorities 
whom I chiefly follow, have given any account ; nor can 
I decide for certain whether the passage was bridged with 
boats, as was the Hellespont by Xerxes and as were the 
Bosporos and the Istros by Darius, 2 or whether the bridge 
he made over the river was one continuous piece of work. 
I incline, however, to think that the bridge must have 
been made of boats, 3 for neither would the depth of the 
river have admitted the construction of an ordinary kind 
of bridge, nor could a work so vast and difficult have been 
executed in so short a time. But if the passage was 
bridged with boats I cannot decide whether the vessels 
being fastened together with cables and anchored in a 
row sufficed to form a bridge as did those by which, as 
Herodotos the Halikarnassian says, the Hellespont was 
joined, or whether the method was that which is used by 
the Romans in bridging the Istros and the Keltic Rhine, 4 

1 Arrian has named these in his 3 Diodoros says the passage was 
Indika, c. 4. made by a bridge of boats. 

2 See Herod, vii. 33-36 ; iv. S3, 97, i There is a Rhenos in Italy— the 
1 33' 1 ^- Reno, a tributary of the Po, from 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 91 

and by which they bridged the Euphrates and the Tigris 
as often as necessity required. Since, however, the 
Romans, as far as my knowledge goes, have found that 
the bridging of rivers by boats is the most expeditious 
method of crossing them, I think it worth a description 
here. The vessels at a preconcerted signal are let go 
from their moorings and rowed down stream not prow but 
stern foremost. The current of course carries them down- 
ward, but a small pinnace furnished with oars holds 
them back till they settle into their appointed place. 
Then baskets of wicker work, pyramid-shaped and filled 
with rough stones, are lowered into the river from the 
prow of each vessel to make it hold fast against the force 
of the current. As soon as one of those vessels has been 
held fast another is in the same way anchored with its 
prow against the stream as far from the first as is com- 
mensurate with their bearing the strain of what is put 
upon them. On both of them beams of wood are rapidly 
laid lengthwise, and on these again planks are placed 
crosswise to bind them together. In this manner the 
work proceeds through all the vessels which are required 
for bridging the passage. At each end of the structure 
firmly fixed railed gangways are thrown forward to the 
shore so that horses and beasts of burden may with the 
greater safety enter upon it. These gangways serve at 
the same time to bind the bridge to the shore. In a 
short time the whole is completed amid great noise and 
bustle, though discipline is by no means lost sight of as 
the work proceeds. In each vessel the occasional exhorta- 
tions of the overseers and their rebukes of negligence 
neither prevent orders from being heard nor the work 
from being quickly executed. 

which the great Rhine is distinguished described in his De Bello Gallico, 
as the Keltic. The famous bridge iv. 17. 
made by Caesar over the latter river is 



g 2 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Chapter VIII. — Alexander arrives at Taxila — Receives an 
embassy from Abisarcs and advances to the Hydaspfe 

This method has been practised by the Romans from 
of old, but how Alexander bridged the river Indus I 
cannot say, for even those who served in his army are 
silent on the matter. But the bridge was made, I should 
think, as nearly as possible in the way described, or if it 
was otherwise contrived let it be so. 

When Alexander had crossed to the other side of the 
Indus he again offered sacrifice according to his custom. 
Then marching away from the Indus he arrived at Taxila, 1 
a great and flourishing city, the greatest indeed of all the 
cities which lay between the river Indus and the Hydas- 
pes. Taxiles, the governor of the city, and the Indians 
who belonged to it received him in a friendly manner, 
and he therefore added as much of the adjacent country 
to their territory as they requested. While he was there 
Abisares, the king of the Indians of the hill-country, sent 
him an embassy which included his own brother and other 
grandees of his court. Envoys came also from Doxares, 
the chief of the province, and those like the others brought 
presents. Here again in Taxila Alexander offered his 
customary sacrifices and celebrated a gymnastic and 
equestrian contest. Having appointed Philip, the son of 
Makhatas, satrap of the Indians of that district, he left a 
garrison in Taxila and those soldiers who were invalided, 
and then moved on towards the river Hydaspes — for he 
had learned that P6ros with the whole of his army lay on 
the other side of that river resolved either to prevent him 
from making the passage or to attack him when crossing. 2 

2 ?i? e N ° te l ' Taxila - that in compliance with the second 
We learn from Curtius that request he would meet Alexander at 
Alexander, before taking hostile the place appointed, but would attend 
action against Puros, demanded from in arms. Alexander was perhaps 
him through an envoy called Cleo- justified by the laws of war in exact- 
chares that he should pay tribute and ing submission from the tribes west 
come to meet him on the frontiers of of the Indus, since these had been 
his dominions. To this Puros replied subject to Darius, whom he had over- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



93 



Upon learning this Alexander sent back Koinos, the son 
of Polemokrat£s, to the river Indus with orders to cut in 
pieces all the boats that had been constructed for the 
passage of the Indus and to bring them to the river 
Hydaspes. In accordance with these orders the smaller 
boats were cut each into two sections and the thirty-oared 
galleys into three, and the sections were then transported 
on waggons to the banks of the Hydaspes. There the 
boats were reconstructed, and appeared as a flotilla upon 
that river. Alexander then taking the forces which he 
had with him when he arrived at Taxila and 5000 of the 
Indians commanded by Taxiles and the chiefs of that 
country advanced towards the Hydaspes. 1 



thrown, and to whose rights he had 
succeeded, but the tribes of the Panjab, 
those at least that lay to the east of 
the Hydaspes, had never, so far as is 
known, been under Persian domina- 
tion, and hence his invasion, accord- 
ing to modern ideas, was altogether 
indefensible. He could, however, 
justify himself on the ground of the 
principles held by the Greeks of his 
day, who considered that their superi- 
ority in wisdom and virtue to the rest 
of mankind gave them a natural right 
to attack, plunder, and enslave all 
barbarians except such only as were 
protected by a special treaty. Such 
a view, repugnant as it seems to every 
principle of justice, was held never- 
theless by Aristotle, who no doubt 
impressed it on the mind of his illus- 
trious pupil. Hence Alexander, in 
attacking Poros, was not conscious, 
like Caesar, when he invaded Britain, 
of perpetrating an unwarrantable 
aggression for which some kind of an 
excuse had to be trumped up. 

1 The Hydaspes, now the Jhilam, 
is called by the natives of Kas'mlr, 
where it rises, the Bedasta, which is 
but a slightly altered form of its 
Sanskrit name, the Vitasta, which 
means ' ' wide-spread. " In Ptolemy's 
geography it appears as the Bidaspes 
— a form nearer the original than 
Hydasph. It is mentioned in one of 
the hymns of the Rig - Veda, along 
with other great Indian rivers : 



" Receive favourably this my hymn, 
O Ganga, Yamuna, Sara'svati, S'utudrl, 
Parashni ; hear O Marudvridha, with 
the Asikni and Vitastd, and thou 
Arjiklya with the Sushoma." In 
advancing from the Indus at Attak to 
the Hydaspes, Alexander followed 
the Rajapatha, that is, the king's 
highway, called by Megasthenes the 
bhbs $a,(rihi)i% It is the route which 
has been taken by all foreign con- 
querors who have penetrated into 
India by the valley of the Kophes. 
Elphinstone, who followed this route 
in returning from Kfibul, describes it 
thus: "The whole of our journey 
across the track between the Indus 
and Hydaspes was about 160 miles ; 
for which space the country is among 
the strongest I have ever seen. The 
difficulty of our passage across it was 
increased by heavy rain. "While in 
the hilly country our road sometimes 
lay through the beds of torrents " 
{Mission to Kdbul, p. 78). In another 
passage (p. 80) he says : "I was 
greatly struck with the difference 
between the banks of this river ; the 
left bank had all the characteristics of 
the plains of India. The right bank, 
on the contrary, was formed by the 
end of the range of the Salt Hills, 
and had an air of extreme ruggedness 
and wildness that must inspire a 
fearful presentiment of the country 
he was entering into the mind of 
a traveller from the East." General 



94 THE INVASION OF INDIA 



Chapter IX. — Alexander on reaching the Hydaspis finds 
Pdros prepared to dispute its passage 

Alexander encamped on the banks of the river, 1 and 
Pdros was seen on the opposite side, with all his army 
and his array of elephants around him. 2 Against the 
place where he saw Alexander had encamped, he 
remained himself to guard the passage, but he sent 
detachments of his men, each commanded by a captain, 
to guard all parts of the river where it could be easily 
forded, as he was resolved to prevent the Macedonians 
from effecting a landing. When Alexander saw this, he 
thought it expedient to move his army from place to 
place, so that Pdros might be at a loss to discover his real 
intentions. For this purpose he divided his army into 
many parts, and some of the troops he led himself in 
different directions, sometimes to ravage the enemy's 
country, and sometimes to find out where he could most 
easily ford the river. He placed various commanders at 
various times over different divisions of his army, and 
despatched them also in different directions. At the 
same time he caused provisions to be conveyed to the 
camp from all parts of the country on this side of the 
river, to impress P6ros with the conviction that he 
intended to remain where he was near the bank, till 
the waters of the river subsided in winter, and afforded 
him a large choice of passages. As the boats were 
constantly plying up and down the stream, and the 

Chesney, in the lecture already cited, cate ravines of the upper part of the 

thus remarks on the advance of Alex- Salt range, and leaving Tilla and 

ander to the Hydaspes: "What is Rhotas on his left, penetrated that 

remarkable about this part of the range by the gorge through which 

advance is that it was not made direct runs the Bhundar river, and struck 

on Jhelum, as would appear natural. the river Jhelum at Jalalpfir, about 

True, that line is over what would be thirty miles below Jhelum. ' 
a very difficult country, as any traveller ' See Note I, Site of Alexander's 

by the existing road knows. Still it camp on the Hydaspes. 
would be the easiest line ; neverlhe- a The Greeks, for the first time, 

less it appears certain that Alexander saw elephants used in war at the 

took a more southerly line, and battle of Arbela. 
threading his way through the intri- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 95 

skins were being filled with hay, while all the bank was 
lined, here with horse and there with foot, all this 
prevented P6ros from resting and concentrating his 
preparations at any one point selected in preference to 
any other as the best for defending the passage. At 
this time of the year besides, all the Indian rivers were 
swollen and flowing with turbid and rapid currents, for 
the sun is then wont to turn towards the summer tropic. 1 
At this season incessant rains deluge the soil of India, 
and the snows of the Kaukasos then melting flood the 
numerous rivers to which they give birth. In winter 
they again subside and become small and clear, and 
in many places fordable, with the exception of the 
Indus and the Ganges, and perhaps some one or two 
others. The Hydaspes at all events does become 
fordable. 

Chapter X. — Alexanders devices to deceive Poros and 
steal the passage of the river 

Alexander therefore publicly announced that he 
would remain where he was throughout that season of 
the year if his passage was for the present to be 
obstructed, but he continued as before waiting in ambush 
to see whether he could anywhere rapidly steal a passage 
to the other side without being observed. He clearly 
saw that it was impossible for him to cross where P6ros 
himself had encamped near the bank of the HydaspSs, 
not only because he had so many elephants, but also 
because his large army arrayed for battle, and splendidly 
accoutred, was ready to attack his troops the moment they 

1 Arrian, in the nineteenth chapter solstice of June 21st, nera rpoircis. 

of this book, states that the battle Editors remove the difficulty by sub- 

with Poros was fought in the Archon- stituting ko.t& for nerd, and I have 

ship of Hegemon at Athens, in the translated accordingly. As the rainy 

month of Mounychion, i.e. between season, however, does not set in till 

the 1 8th of April and 18th of May, near the end of June, and it had set 

326 B.C. Here, however, according in, as Strabo informs us, during the 

to the reading of all the MSS., he march to the Hydaspes, the later date 

makes the battle take place after the has probability in its favour. 



9 6 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

landed. He foresaw besides that his horses would refuse 
to mount the opposite bank, where the elephants would 
at once encounter them, and by their very aspect and 
their roaring would terrify them outright ; nor did he 
think that even before they gained the shore they would 
remain upon the inflated hides during the passage ; but 
that on seeing the elephants even at a distance off, they 
would become frantic and leap into the water. He 
resolved therefore to steal the passage, and to do this in 
the following way. Leading out by night the greater 
part of his cavalry along the river bank in different 
directions, he ordered them to set up a loud clamour, 
raise the war-shout, 1 and fill the shores with every kind 
of noise, as if they were really preparing to attempt the 
passage. P6ros marched meanwhile along the opposite 
bank, in the direction of the noise, having his elephants 
with him, and Alexander gradually accustomed him to 
lead out his men in this way in opposition. When this 
had been done repeatedly, and the men did nothing more 
than make a great noise and shout the war-cry, Poros no 
longer made any counter-movement when the cavalry 
issued out from the camp, but remained within his own 
lines, his spies being, however, posted at numerous points 
along the bank. When Alexander had thus quieted the 
suspicions of Poros about his nocturnal attempts, he 
devised the following stratagem. 



Chapter XI — Arrangements made by Alexander for 
crossing the Hydaspes unobserved 

There was a bluff ascending from the bank of the 
Hydaspes at a point where the river made a remarkable 
bend, and this was densely covered with all sorts of trees. 
Over against it lay an island in the river overspread with 
jungle, an untrodden and solitary place. Perceiving that 
this island directly faced the bluff, and that both places 

1 Enyalios, an epithet of the war-god. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 97 

were wooded and adapted to screen his attempt to cross 
the river, he decided to take his army over this way. 
Now the bluff and the island were 150 stadia distant 
from the great camp. 1 But along the whole of the bank 
he had posted running sentries 2 at a proper distance for 
keeping each other in sight, and readily transmitting 
along the line any orders that might be received from 
any quarter. In every direction, moreover, shouts were 
raised by night, and fires were burnt for many nights 
together. But when he had made up his mind to attempt 
the passage, the preparations for crossing were made in 
the camp without any concealment. In the camp 
Krateros had been left with his own division of the 
cavalry, and the Arakhosian and Parapamisadan horse- 
men, together with the brigades of the Macedonian 
phalanx commanded by Alketas and Polysperchon and 
the contingent of 5000 men under the chiefs of the 
hither Indians. He had ordered Krateros not to attempt 
to cross the river before P6ros moved off against them, or 
before learning that he was flying from the field, and 
that they were victorious. " If, however,'' said he, " P6ros 
with one part of his army advances against me while he 

1 Curtius mentions that near the seventeen miles." These seventeen 

bluff there was a deep hollow or miles are about the equivalent of the 

ravine which sufficed to screen both 150 stadia given by Arrian as the 

the infantry and the cavalry, and on this distance from the great camp to the 

Cunningham remarks: "There is a bluff. 

ravine to the north of Jalalpur which 2 "Arrian," says Cunningham, 
exactly suits the descriptions of the " records that Alexander placed run- 
historians. This ravine is the bed of ning sentries along the bank of the 
the Kandar Nala, which has a course river at such distances that they could 
of six miles from its source down to see each other and communicate his 
Jalalpur, where it is lost in a waste orders. Now, I believe that this opera- 
of sand. Up this ravine there has tion could not be carried out in the 
always been a passable, but difficult face of an observant enemy along any 
road towards Jhelum. From the part of the river bank, excepting only 
head of the Kandar this road proceeds that one part which lies between 
for three miles in a northerly direc- Jalalpur and Dilawar. In all other 
tion down another ravine called the parts the west bank is open and ex- 
Kasi, which then turns suddenly to posed, but in this part alone the 
the east for six and a half miles, and wooded and rocky hills slope down 
then again one and a half mile to the to the river and offer sufficient cover 
south, where it joins the river Jhelum for the concealment of single sentries." 
immediately below Dilawar, the whole — Geog. of Anc. India, pp. 170, 171. 
distance from Jalalpur being exactly 

H 



98 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

leaves the other part and his elephants in his camp, then 
please to remain where you are ; but if P6ros takes all 
his elephants with him, and a portion of the rest of his 
army is left behind in the camp, then do you cross the 
river with all possible speed ; for," added he, " it is the 
elephants only which make it impossible for the horses to 
land on the other bank. The rest of the army can cross 
over without difficulty." 



Chapter XII — Alexander crosses the Hydaspes 

Such were the instructions given to Krateros ; but 
half-way between the island and the main camp in which 
he had been left, there were posted Meleager, Attalos and 
Gorgias, with the mercenary cavalry and infantry, who 
had received orders to cross to the other side in detach- 
ments, into which their ranks were to be separated as soon 
as they saw the Indians fairly engaged in battle. He 
then selected to be taken under his own command the 
corps of body-guards called Companions, the regiments of 
cavalry under Hephaistion, Perdikkas and Demetrios, also 
the Baktrian, Sogdian, and Skythian cavalry, and the 
Daan horse-archers, and from the phalanx of infantry the 
hypaspists, the brigade of Kleitos and Koinos, and the 
archers and the Agrianians, and with these troops he 
marched with secrecy, keeping at a considerable distance 
from the bank that he might not be seen to be moving 
towards the island and the bluff, from which he intended 
to cross over to the other side. There in the night the 
skins, which had long before been provided for the purpose, 
were stuffed with hay, and securely stitched up. During 
the night a violent storm of rain came on, whereby his 
preparations and the attempt at crossing were not betrayed 
to the enemy by the rattle of arms and the shouting of 
orders, since the thunder and rain drowned all other sounds. 
Most of the boats which he had ordered to be cut into 
sections had been conveyed to this place, and when secretly 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 99 

pieced together again were hidden away in the woods 
along with the thirty-oared galleys. Towards daybreak the 
wind had died down and the rain ceased. The rest of 
the army then crossed over in the direction of the island, 
the cavalry mounted on the skin pontoon rafts, and as 
many of the foot-soldiers as the boats could hold em- 
barked in them. They so proceeded, that they were not 
seen by the sentries posted by Pdros till they had 
passed beyond the island, and were not far from the 
bank. 

Chapter XIII. — Incidents of the passage of the river 

Alexander himself embarked on a thirty-oared galley, 
and went over accompanied by Ptolemy, Perdikkas, and 
Lysimachos, his body-guards, and by Seleukos, one of 
the companions, who was afterwards king, and by one 
half of the hypaspists, the other half being on board of 
the other galleys of like size. As soon as the soldiers 
had passed beyond the island, they steered for the bank, 
being now full in view of the enemy, whose sentinels on 
seeing their approach galloped off at the utmost speed of 
each man's horse to carry the tidings to P6ros. Mean- 
while Alexander was himself the first to disembark, and 
taking the horsemen who had been conveyed over in his 
own and the other thirty-oared galleys, he at once formed 
them into line as they kept landing, for the cavalry had 
orders to be the first to disembark. At the head of these 
duly marshalled he moved forward. Owing, however, to 
his ignorance of the locality he had unawares landed not 
on the mainland, but upon an island, the great size of 
which prevented it all the more from being recognised 
as an island. It was separated from the mainland by a 
branch of the river in which the water was shallow ; but 
the violent storm of rain which had lasted the most of 
the night had so swollen the stream that the horsemen 
could not find the ford, and he feared that the latter part 
of the passage would be as laborious as the first. When 



ioo THE INVASION OF INDIA 

at last the ford was found he led his men through it with 
difficulty ; for the water where deepest reached higher 
than the breasts of the foot soldiers, and as for the horses 
their heads only were above the river. When he had 
crossed this piece of water also, he selected the mounted 
corps of body-guards, and the best men from the other 
squadrons of cavalry, and brought them from column 
into line upon the right wing. 1 Then in front of all the 
cavalry he posted the horse archers, and next in line to 
the cavalry and in front of all the infantry the royal 
hypaspists commanded by Seleukos. Next to these 
again he placed the royal foot guards, and then the 
other hypaspists, each in what happened to be the order 
of his precedence for the time being. At each extremity 
of the phalanx were posted the archers and the Agrianians 
and the javelin men. 



Chapter XIV. — Skirmish with the son of Poros at the 
landing-place 

Alexander having made these dispositions, ordered the 
infantry, which numbered nearly 6000 men, to follow 
him at the ordinary marching pace and in regular order, 
for when he saw that he was superior in cavalry, he took 
with himself only the horsemen, about 5000 in number, 
and led them forward at a rapid pace. Taur6n, the 
captain of the archers, he ordered to hasten forward 
with his men to give support to the cavalry. He 
had come to the conclusion that if P6ros engaged him 
with all his troops he would either, without difficulty, 
overpower him by charging with his cavalry, or would 
remain on the defensive till the infantry came up during 

1 With Alexander's passage of the no doubt familiar with the history of 

Hydaspes may be compared Hanni- Alexander's wars, and from knowing 

bal s passage of the Rhone made how the Hydasp&s was crossed may 

upwards of a century later. The have laid his plans for crossing the 

Carthaginian general, whose education Rhone, v. Livy, xxi. 26-28 ; Polyb. 

included a knowledge of Greek, was iii. 45, 46. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT iol 

the action, or that if the Indians, terrified by the mar- 
vellous audacity of his passage of the river, should take 
to flight, he would be able to pursue them closely, and 
the slaughter being thus all the greater there would not 
be left much more work for him to do. 

Aristoboulos says that the son of P6ros arrived with 
about 60 chariots before Alexander made the final pas- 
sage from the large island, and that he could have 
hindered Alexander from landing (for he made the 
passage with difficulty even when no one opposed him), 
if the Indians had but leaped' down from their chariots 
and fallen upon those who first stepped on shore. The 
prince, however, passed by with his chariots, and allowed 
Alexander to accomplish the passage in complete safety. 
Against these Indians Alexander, he says, despatched 
his horse archers, who easily put them to a rout which 
was by no means bloodless. Other writers say that 
while the troops were landing an encounter took place 
between the Indians who had come with the son of 
P6ros and Alexander at the head of his cavalry, and 
that as the son of P6ros had come with a superior force 
Alexander himself was wounded by the Indian prince, 
and that his favourite horse Boukephalas was killed, 
having been wounded, like his master, by the son of 
Pdros. But Ptolemy, the son of Lagos, with whom I 
agree, gives a different account, for he states, like the 
others, that Poros sent off his son, but not in command 
of merely 60 chariots ; and indeed it is not at all likely 
that Poros, on learning from the scouts that either Alex- 
ander himself, or, at all events, a part of his army, had 
made the passage of the Hydaspes, would have sent his 
own son with no more than 60 chariots, which, con- 
sidered as a reconnoitring party, would have been too 
numerous, and not rapid in retreat, but considered as 
meant to repel such of the enemy as had not yet crossed 
the river, and to attack those who had already landed, an 
altogether inadequate force. He says that the son of 
P6ros arrived at the head of 2000 men and 120 chariots, 



102 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

and that Alexander had made even the final passage 
from the island before the prince appeared upon the 



scene. 



Chapter XV. — The arrangements made by Poros for the 
conflict 

Ptolemy states further that Alexander at first de- 
spatched against the prince the horse archers, and led 
the cavalry himself, under the belief that Poros was 
advancing against him with the whole of his army, and 
that this was a body of advanced cavalry thrown for- 
ward by P6ros. But when he discovered what the real 
strength of the Indians was he then briskly charged 
them with what cavalry he had with him. When they 
noticed that Alexander himself and his body of cavalry 
did not charge them in an extended line, but by squad- 
rons, their ranks gave way, and 400 of their horsemen 
fell, and among them the son of P6ros. Their chariots, 
moreover, were captured, horses and all, for they proved 
heavy in the retreat and useless in the action itself, by 
having stuck fast in the clay. When the horsemen who 
had escaped from this rout reported one after another to 
Poros that Alexander himself had crossed the river with 
the strongest division of his army, and that his son had 
been slain in the fight, he was still at a loss what to 
determine, for the division which had been left with 
Krateros in the great camp right opposite to his own 
position appeared to be undertaking the passage, but he 
at last decided to march with all his forces against Alex- 
ander and fight it out with the strongest division of the 
Macedonians led by the king in person. He nevertheless 
left there in his camp a few of the elephants and a small 
force to deter the cavalry under the command of Krateros 
from landing. He then took all his cavalry, 4000 strong, 
all his chariots, 300 in number, 200 of his elephants, 
and 30,000 efficient infantry, and marched against Alex- 
ander. When he found a place where he saw there was 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 103 

no clay, but that the ground from its sandy nature was 
all flat and firm, and suited for the movements of cavalry 
whether charging or falling back, he then drew up his 
army in order of battle, 1 posting his elephants in the 
front line at intervals of at least 100 feet, so as to have 
his elephants ranged in front before the whole body of 
his infantry, and so to spread . terror at all points among 
Alexander's cavalry. He took it for certain besides that 
none of the enemy would have the audacity to push in 
at the intervals between the elephants — not the cavalry, 
since their horses would be terrified by these animals, and 
much less the infantry, since they would be checked in 
front by his heavy-armed foot soldiers falling upon them, 
and trampled down when the elephants wheeled round 
upon them. Behind these he drew up his infantry, 
which did not close up in one line with the elephants, 
but formed a second line in their rear, so that the 
regiments were only partly pushed forward into the 
intervals. He had also troops of infantry posted on the 
wings beyond the elephants, and on both sides of the 
infantry the cavalry had been drawn up, and in front of 
it the chariots. 



Chapter XVI. — The plan of attack adopted by Alexander 

In this manner had P6ros arranged his troops. As 
soon as Alexander perceived that the Indians had been 
drawn up in battle order he made his cavalry halt, that 
he might get in hand each regiment of the infantry as it 
came up ; and even when the phalanx by a rapid march 
had effected a junction with the cavalry he still did not 
at once marshal its ranks and lead it into action, and 
thus expose the men, while tired and out of breath, to 
the barbarians, who were quite fresh, but he gave them 
time, while he rode round their ranks, to rest until they 

1 Here, or in the immediate neigh- sion the inferiority of the British com- 
bourhood, was fought, in 1849, tne mander as a strategist to Alexander 
battle of Chilianwala. On this occa- was signally manifested. 



i 04 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

could recover themselves. When he had observed how 
the Indians were arranged he made up his mind not to 
advance against the centre, in front of which the elephants 
had been posted, while the intervals between them had 
been filled with compact masses of infantry, for he feared 
lest P6ros should reap the advantage which he had cal- 
culated on deriving from that arrangement. But as he 
was superior in cavalry he took the greater part of that 
force, and marched along towards the left wing of the 
enemy to make his attack in this quarter. 1 Koinos he 
sent at the head of his own regiment of horse and that 
of D£metrios to the right, and ordered him, when the 
barbarians on seeing what a dense mass of cavalry was 
opposed to them, should be riding along to encounter it, 
to hang close upon their rear. 2 The command of the 
phalanx of infantry he committed to Seleukos, Antigenes, 
and Taurdn, who received orders not to take part in the 
action till they saw that the phalanx of infantry and the 
cavalry of the enemy were thrown into disorder by the 
cavalry under his own command. 

When the Indians were now within reach of his 
missiles he despatched against their left wing the horse 
archers, who were iooo strong, to throw the enemy in 
that part of the field into confusion with storms of arrows 
and charges of their horses. He marched rapidly for- 

1 The left wing of the Indian army the rear as soon as, in advancing to 
was flanked by the river. meet Alexander, they had got some 

2 This passage, as interpreted by little distance from their supports. 
Droysen, Thirlwall, and indeed as ... Distance can be got over quickly 
generally understood, intimates that by cavalry." Kochly and Riistow, 
Alexander ordered Koinos to station however, in their History of the Greek 
himself opposite the enemy's right, Military System, advocate a different 
and not on the Macedonian extreme view. " Alexander, " they say, "must 
right. Thus Moberly, who holds the have sent Koinos to the extreme right 
general view, remarks {Alexander in wing with the order, that if the cavalry 
the Punjaub, -p. 61) : — "Coenus was broke from the line against himself 
ordered to station himself opposite the (Alexander) he was to fall upon their 
enemy's right ; then, in case of Porus rear. Had he been detached to oppose 
withdrawing all his cavalry from the the right wing of Foros he would have 
right, in order to meet Alexander's been too far off to support Alexander's 
attack on the left, Coenus was to pass front attack by an attack on the 
from one wing to the other, appar- enemy's rear." This seems the pre- 
ently in front of the Macedonian line, ferable view. 

and to attack the Indian cavalry in 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 105 

ward himself with the companion cavalry against the left 
wing of the barbarians, making haste to attack their 
cavalry in a state of disorder while they were still in 
column, and before they could deploy into line. 



Chapter X VII. — Description of the battle of the 
Hydaspes — Defeat of Pdros 

The Indians meanwhile had collected their horsemen 
from every quarter, and were riding forward to repulse 
Alexander's onset, when Koinos, in accordance with his 
orders, appeared with his cavalry upon their rear. See- 
ing this the Indians had to make their cavalry face both 
to front and rear — the largest and best part to oppose 
Alexander, and the remainder to wheel round against 
Koinos and his squadrons. This therefore at once threw 
their ranks into confusion, and disconcerted their plan 
of operations ; and Alexander, seeing that now was his 
opportunity while their cavalry was in the very act of 
forming to front and rear, fell upon those opposed to him 
with such vigour that the Indians, unable to withstand 
the charge of his cavalry, broke from their ranks, and fled 
for shelter to the elephants as to a friendly wall. 1 Upon 
this the drivers of the elephants urged these animals for- 
ward against the cavalry ; but the Macedonian phalanx 
itself now met them face to face, and threw darts at the 
men on the elephants, and from one side and the other 
struck the elephants themselves as they stood around 

1 " To meet the double assault (of phants, and (as it would seem in the 

Alexander and Coenus) they resorted absence, from Arrian's account, of the 

to one of those changes of front in full details) passed as soon as possible 

which Indian cavalry are often so through the intervals of the foot 

surprisingly rapid — facing partly to regiments, so as to be for the moment 

the front and partly to the rear. Yet quite outside the battle. As soon as 

Alexander was beforehand with them ; they were out of the way the Indian 

and his renewed charge threw them elephants were sent on, supported by 

into utter confusion before they could the infantry, but were at once met 

fully assume their new formation. face to face by the Macedonian 

Flying along the front of their own phalanx." — -v. Moberly's Alexander 

infantry, they took refuge in the in the Punjaub, Introd. p. 12. 
spaces left between every two ele- 



106 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

them. This kind of warfare was different from any of* 
which they had experience in former contests, for the 
huge beasts charged the ranks of the infantry, and wher- 
ever they turned went crushing through the Macedonian 
phalanx though in close formation ; while the horsemen 
of the Indians, on seeing that the infantry was now 
engaged in the action, again wheeled round and charged 
the cavalry. But Alexander's men, being far superior 
in personal strength and military discipline, again routed 
them, and again drove them back upon the elephants, and 
cooped them up among them. Meanwhile the whole of 
Alexander's cavalry had now been gathered into one 
battalion, not in consequence of an order, but from being 
thrown together in the course of the struggle, and wher- 
ever they fell upon the ranks of the Indians they made 
great carnage before parting from them. The elephants 
being now cooped up within a narrow space, did no less 
damage to their friends than to their foes, trampling them 
under their hoofs as they wheeled and pushed about 
There resulted in consequence a great slaughter of the 
cavalry, cooped up as it was in a narrow space around 
the elephants. Many of the elephant drivers, moreover, 
had been shot down, and of the elephants themselves 
some had been wounded, while others, both from ex- 
haustion and the loss of their mahouts, no longer kept to 
their own side in the conflict, but, as if driven frantic by 
their sufferings, attacked friend and foe quite indiscrim- 
inately, pushed them, trampled them down, and killed 
them in all manner of ways. But the Macedonians, who 
had a wide and open field, and could therefore operate as 
they thought best, gave way when the elephants charged, 
and when they retreated followed at their heels and plied 
them with darts ; whereas the Indians, who were in the 
midst of the animals, suffered far more the effects of their 
rage. When the elephants, however, became quite ex- 
hausted, and their attacks were no longer made with 
vigour, they fell back like ships backing water, and merely 
kept trumpeting as they retreated with their faces to the 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 107 

enemy. Then did Alexander surround with his cavalry 
the whole of the enemy's line, and signal that the infantry, 
with their shields linked together so as to give the utmost 
compactness to their ranks, should advance in phalanx. 
By this means the cavalry of the Indians was, with a few 
exceptions, cut to pieces in the action. Such also was 
the fate of the infantry, since the Macedonians were now 
pressing upon them from every side. Upon this all 
turned to flight wherever a gap could be found in the 
cordon of Alexander's cavalry. 



Chapter X VIII. — Sequel of the battle and surrender 
■ of Poros 

Meanwhile Krateros and all the other officers of Alex- 
ander's army, who had been left behind on the opposite 
bank of the Hydaspeis, crossed the river when they per- 
ceived that Alexander was winning a splendid victory. 
These men, being fresh, were employed in the pursuit, 
instead of Alexander's exhausted troops, and they made 
no less a slaughter of the Indians in the retreat than had 
been made in the engagement. 

The loss of the Indians in killed fell little short of 
20,000 infantry and 3000 cavalry, and all their chariots 
were broken to pieces. 1 Two sons of P6ros fell in the 
battle, and also Spitakes, 2 the chief of the Indians of that 
district. The drivers of the elephants and of the chariots 
were also slain and the cavalry officers and the generals 
in the army of Poros all . . . 3 The elephants, moreover, 
that escaped destruction in the field were all captured. 
On Alexander's side there fell about 80 of the 6000 in- 
fantry who had taken part in the first attack, 1 o of the 

1 Diodoros gives the number of Alexander during the march of the 
Indians killed at upwards of 12,000, latter from Taxila to the Hydaspes, 
and of the captured at more than as Droysen and Thirlwall agree in 
9000, besides 80 elephants. thinking. 

2 The Spitakes here mentioned as 3 The hiatus is supposed to have 
one of the slain is probably the same contained the number of officers 
as Pittacus, who is recorded by Poly- killed. 

ainos to have had an encounter with 



io 8 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

horse archers who first began the action, 20 of the com- 
panion cavalry, and 200 of the other cavalry. 1 

When Pdros, who had nobly discharged his duties 
throughout the battle, performing the part not only of a 
general, but also that of a gallant soldier, saw the slaughter 
of his cavalry and some of his elephants lying dead, and 
others wandering about sad and sullen without their 
drivers, while the greater part of his infantry had been 
killed, he did not, after the manner of Darius, the great 
king, abandon the field and show his men the first ex- 
ample of flight, but, on the contrary, fought on as long as 
he saw any Indians maintaining the contest in a united 
body ; but he wheeled round on being wounded in the 
right shoulder, where only he was unprotected by armour 
in the battle. All the rest of his person was rendered 
shot-proof by his coat of mail, which was remarkable for 
its strength and the closeness with which it fitted his 
person, as could afterwards be observed by those who saw 
him. When he found himself wounded he turned his 
elephant round and began to retire. Alexander, perceiv- 
ing that he was a great man and valiant in fight, was 
anxious to save his life, and for this purpose sent to him 
first of all Taxiles the Indian. Taxiles, who was on 
horseback, approached as near the elephant which carried 
P6ros as seemed safe, and entreated him, since it was no 
longer possible for him to flee, to stop his elephant and 
listen to the message he brought from Alexander. But 
P6ros, on finding that the speaker was his old enemy 
Taxiles, turned round and prepared to smite him with 
his javelin ; and he would probably have killed him 
had not Taxiles instantly put his horse to the gallop 
and got beyond the reach of P6ros. But not even for 
this act did Alexander feel any resentment against P6ros, 
but sent to him messenger after messenger, and last of all 
Mero£s, an Indian, as he had learned that P6ros and this 

1 This death-roll evidently greatly the Macedonians 280 cavalry and more 
under-estimatesthelossonAlexander's than 700 infantry, 
side. Diodoros says that there fell of 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 109 

Meroes were old friends. As soon as P6ros heard the 
message which Meroes now brought just at a time when 
he was overpowered by thirst, he made his elephant halt 
and dismounted. Then, when he had taken a draught of 
water and felt revived, he requested Meroes to conduct 
him without delay to Alexander. 1 



Chapter XIX. — Alexander makes Poros his firm friend 
and ally — Founds two cities — Death of his famous 
horse Boukephalas 

He was then conducted to Alexander, who, on learn- 
ing that Meroes was approaching with him, rode forward 
in front of his line with a few of the Companions to meet 
him. Then reining in his horse he beheld with admira- 
tion the handsome person and majestic stature of Pqjros, 
which somewhat exceeded five cubits. He saw, too, 
with wonder that he did not seem to be broken and 
abased in spirit, but that he advanced to meet him as a 
brave man would meet another brave man after gallantly 
contending with another king in defence of his kingdom. 
Then Alexander, who was the first to speak, requested 
P6ros to say how he wished to be treated. The report 
goes that P6ros said in reply, " Treat me, O Alexander ! 
as befits a king ; '' and that Alexander, being pleased with 
his answer, replied, " For mine own sake, O Poros ! thou 
shalt be so treated, but do thou, in thine own behalf, ask 
for whatever boon thou pleasest," to which P6ros replied 
that in what he had asked everything was included. 
Alexander was more delighted than ever with this re- 
joinder, and not only appointed Pdros to govern his own 
Indians, but added to his original territory another of still 
greater extent. Alexander thus treated this brave man 

1 Poros was the first sovereign that the story of his capture, representing 

Alexander had captured on the field him to have been protected to the last 

of battle. Curtius and Diod6ros re- by his faithful elephant, 
late somewhat differently from Arrian 



no THE INVASION OF INDIA 

as befitted a king, and he consequently found him in all 
respects faithful and devoted to his interests. Such, then, 
was the result of the battle in which Alexander fought 
against Poros 1 and the Indians of the other side of the 
Hydaspes in the month of Mounychion of the year when 
Hegemdn was archon in Athens. 2 

Alexander founded two cities, one on the battlefield, 
and the other at the point whence he had started to cross 
the river Hydaspes. The former he called Nikaia in 
honour of his victory over the Indians, and the other 
Boukephala 3 in memory of his horse Boukephalas, which 
died there, not from being wounded by any one, but from 
toil and old age, for he was about thirty years old, 4 and 
had heretofore undergone many toils and dangers along 
with Alexander. This Boukephalas was never mounted 
by any one except Alexander only, for he disdained all 
other riders. He was of an uncommon size and of 
generous mettle. He had by way of a distinguishing 
mark the head of an ox impressed upon him, and some 
say that from this circumstance he got his name. But 
others say that though he was black, he had on his fore- 
head a white mark which bore a close resemblance to the 
brow of an ox. In the country of the Ouxians this horse 
disappeared from Alexander, who sent a proclamation 
through the land that he would kill all the Ouxians if 

1 See Note R, Battle with Poros. the great camp at JalalpGr. It be- 

5 Diodoros says the battle occurred came a great emporium of commerce, 

while Chremes was archon at Athens. as we find from the Periplih of the 

3 Nikaia most probably occupied the Erythraian Sea, c 47. In the Peii- 

site of the modern town of Mong, near tinger Tables it is called Alexandria 

the left bank. Nothing is known of Btccefalos. 

its history. With respect to its sister 4 " Schmieder says that Alexander 
city Boukephala, the ancient writers could not have broken in the horse 
are not in agreement. Plutarch before he was sixteen years old. But 
places it on the left or eastern bank since at this time he was in his twenty- 
of the Hydaspes, for he says that ninth year he would have had him 
Boukephalas was killed in the battle, thirteen years. Consequently the 
and that the city was built where he horse must have been at least seven- 
fell and was buried. According, how- teen years old when he acquired 
ever, to Strabo, Arrian, and Diodoros, him. Can any ope believe this? Yet 
it stood on the west bank ; but while Tlutarch also states that trie horse 
Strabo places it at the point where was thirty years old at his death."— 
the troops embarked, Arrian places it Chinnock's Anabasis of Alexander, 
farther down the stream on the site of p. 296, note 4. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT in 

they did not bring him his horse, and brought back he 
was immediately after the proclamation had been issued * — 
so great was Alexander's attachment to his favourite, and 
so great was the fear of Alexander which prevailed among 
the barbarians. Let so much honour be paid by me to 
this Boukephalas for Alexander's sake. 



Chapter XX. — Alexander conquers the Glausai, receives 
embassies from A bisares and other chiefs, and crosses 
the Akesines 

When Alexander had duly honoured with splendid 
obsequies those who had been slain in the battle, he 
offered to the gods in acknowledgment of his victory the 
customary sacrifices, and celebrated athletic and equestrian 
contests on the bank of the river Hydaspes, at the place 
where he first crossed with his army. He then left 
Krateros behind with a part of the army to build and 
fortify the cities which he was founding there, while he 
advanced himself against the Indians whose country lay 
next to the dominions of Pdros. Aristoboulos says that 
the name of the nation was the Glaukanikoi, but Ptolemy 
calls them the Glausai. 2 By which of the names it was 
called I take to be a matter of no consequence. Alex- 
ander invaded their country with the half of the companion 
cavalry, picked men from each phalanx of the infantry, 
all the horse-archers, the Agrianians, and the other archers. 
The people everywhere surrendered on terms of capitula- 

1 This incident is referred by Plu- Chenab. The name of the inhabit- 
tarch to Hyrkania, and by Curtius to ants, Glausai or Glaukantkoi, has 
the land of the Mardians. The been identified by V. de Saint-Martin 
Ouxioi lived on the borders of Persis, with that of the Kalaka, a tribe men- 
between that province and Sousiana. tioned in the Vardha Sanhita, a work 

2 Alexander, according to Dio- of the sixth century of our aera. In 
dfiros, halted to recruit his army for the Mahdbhdrata the name is written 
thirty days in the dominions of Poros. Kalaja, and in the Rajput Chronicles 
He then advanced northwards with a Kalacha, a form which justifies the 
part of his army to the fertile and Greek Glausai. The second part of 
populous regions that lay in the south the longer name, anika, means a 
of Kas'mir (the Bhimber and Bajaur troop or army in Sanskrit. — v. Saint- 
districts) between the upper courses Martin's Etude, pp. 102, 103. 

of the Hydaspes and the Akesines and 



i,2 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

tion. In this manner he took seven-and-thirty cities, the 
smallest of which contained not fewer than 5000 in- 
habitants, while many contained upwards of io,ooo. He 
took also a great many villages which were not less 
populous than the towns ; and this country he gave to 
Poros to rule, 1 and between him and Taxiles he effected a 
reconciliation. He then sent Taxiles home to his capital. 

At this time envoys came from Abisares to say that 
their king surrendered himself and his whole realm to 
Alexander. 2 Yet before the battle in which Alexander 
had defeated P6ros, Abisares was ready with his army to 
fight on the side of P6ros. But he now sent his brother 
along with the other envoys to Alexander, taking with 
them money and forty elephants as a present. Envoys 
also arrived from the independent Indians, and from 
another Indian ruler called Poros. 3 Alexander ordered 
Abisares to come to him as quickly as possible, threaten- 
ing that if he did not come he would see him and his 
army arriving where he would not rejoice to see them. 

At this time Phratophernes, the satrap of Parthia and 
Hyrkania, at the head of the Thracians who had been 
left with him came to Alexander. There came also 
envoys from Sisikottos, the satrap of the Assakenians, 
reporting that these people had slain their governor and 
revolted from Alexander. Against these he sent Philip- 
pos and Tyriaspes to quell the insurrection and restore 
tranquillity and order to the province. 

Alexander himself advanced towards the river Ake- 
sines. 4 This is the only Indian river of which Ptolemy, 

1 Conf. Strabo, XV. i. 3. " Other 3 Strabo (XV. i. p. 699) says this 

writers affirm that the Macedonians Toros was a nephew of the Poros 

conquered nine nations situated be- whom Alexander had defeated, and 

tween the Hydaspes and the Hypanis that his country was called Gandaris. 

(Beas), and obtained possession of The Gandarai were a widely extended 

500 cities, not one of which was less people, occupying a district stretching 

than Kos Meropis, and that Alex- from theupperpartofthePanjabtothe 

ander, after having conquered all west of the Indus as far as Qandahar. 

this country, delivered it up to Thev are the Gandhara of Sanskrit. 
Kirns." 4" The Akesines, now the ChenSb, 

- This was a second embassy. An is called in the Yedic Hymns the 

earlier is mentioned in Chapter VIII. Mihii, i.e. "dark-coloured." It was 

of this book. called also, and more commonly, 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 113 

the son of Lagos, has mentioned the size. He states that 
where Alexander crossed it with his army in boats and 
on inflated hides the current was so rapid that the waters 
dashed with foam and fury against the large and jagged 
rocks with which the channel was bestrewn. He informs 
us also that it was 1 5 stadia in breadth ; and while the 
passage was easy for those who crossed upon inflated 
hides, not a few of those who were carried in boats per- 
ished in the waters, as many of the boats were dashed to 
pieces by striking against the rocks. From this descrip- 
tion we may fairly conclude, if we institute a comparison, 
that the size of the river Indus has been pretty correctly 
stated by those who take it to have an average breadth of 
40 stadia, while, where narrowest and of course deepest, 
it contracts to a breadth of 1 5 stadia, which I take to be 
its actual breadth in many parts of its course, for I con- 
clude that Alexander selected a part of the Akesines 
where the passage was widest, and where the current 
would consequently be slower than elsewhere. 



Chapter XXI. — Pursuit after PSros, nephew of the great 
PSros — Conquest of the country between the Akesines 
and the Hydrastis — Passage of the latter river 

After crossing the river he left Koinos there upon the 
bank with his own brigade, and ordered him to superin- 
tend the passage of the river by those troops which had 
been left behind to collect corn and other supplies from 
the part of India which was now under his authority. 
P6ros he sent home to his capital with orders to select 
the best fighting men of the Indians, and to muster all 

Chandrabhag&, which, being trans- the Macedonian fleet at the turbulent 

literated into Greek, becomes Sandro- junction of this river with the Hydas- 

phagos. This word suggested to the pes. In Ptolemy's Geography it is 

soldiers of Alexander another of bad called Sandabala by an obvious error 

omen, Ale-xandrophagos, which means for Sandabaga. The Akesines, though 

devourer of Alexander, and hence joined by the other great Panjab 

they adopted its other name, perhaps rivers, retained its name until it fell 

on account of the disaster which befell into the Indus. 



„ 4 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

the elephants he possessed, and to rejoin him with these. 
He resolved to pursue in person the other P6ros — the 
bad one — with the lightest troops in his army, for word 
had been brought that he had fled from the country of 
which he was the ruler ; for, while hostilities still sub- 
sisted between Alexander and the other Poros, this P6ros 
had sent envoys to Alexander offering to surrender into 
his hands both his person and the country over which he 
ruled, but this more from enmity to Poros than friend- 
liness to Alexander. On learning therefore that Poros had 
not only been set at liberty, but had his kingdom restored 
to him, and that too with a large accession of territory, he 
was overcome with fear, not so much of Alexander as of 
his namesake P6ros, and fled from his country, taking 
with him as many fighting men as he could persuade to 
accompany him in his flight. 

Alexander, while marching to overtake him, arrived at 
the Hydra6tes— another Indian river, not less in breadth 
than the Akesines, but not so rapid. 1 Over all the 
country which he overran he planted garrisons in the most 
suitable places, so that the troops under Krateros and 
Koinos might, while scouring it far and near for forage, 
traverse it in safety to join him. He then despatched 
Hephaistidn with a force comprising two divisions of 
infantry, his own regiment of cavalry and that of Demetrios, 
and one -half of the archers, into the country of that 
P6ros who had revolted. He received orders to hand over 
the country to the other P6ros, and when he had reduced 
all the independent Indian tribes bordering on the banks 

1 The Hydraotes is called by Strabo pes, or, as Ptolemy calls it, the 

■(XV. i. 21) the Hyarotis, and in Bidaspes. Arrian in his Indika (c. 

Ptolemy's Geography the Adds or 4) describes the Hydraotes as rising 

Rhouadis. It is now the R&vf, which in the country of the Kambistholoi, 

is an abridged form of its Sanskrit and after receiving the Hyphasis 

name, the Airavatf. It passes the among the Astrybai, and the Saranges 

city of Lahore, and joins the Chenab from the Kekeans (the Sekaya of 

about 30 miles above Mult.ln. In Sanskrit), and the Neudros from the 

former times, however, the junction Attakenoi, falling into the Akesines. 

occurred 15 miles below that city. In The Hyphasis does not, however, join 

Ptolemy's Geography the Rhouadis is the Hydraotes. 
-erroneously made to join the Ilydas- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 115 

of the Hydraotes, to place these also under the rule of 
P6ros. He himself then crossed the river Hydra6t£s, 
where he met with none of the difficulties which had 
attended the passage of the Akesines. When he was 
advancing into the country beyond the Hydradtes he 
found most of the natives willing to surrender on capitu- 
lation, while some met him in arms, and others were 
captured when attempting to escape and reduced to 
submission. 



Chapter XXII. — Alexander marches against the Kathaians 
— Takes Pimprama, and lays siege to Sangala 

Alexander meanwhile had learned that the Kathaians 1 
and other tribes of independent Indians 2 were preparing to 
meet him in battle if he invaded their country, and were 
inviting the neighbouring tribes, which were independent 
like themselves, to cooperate with them. He learned also 
that the city near which they meant to engage him was 
strongly fortified, and was called Sangala. 3 The Kathaians 
themselves enjoyed the highest reputation for courage 
and skill in the art of war, and the same warlike spirit 
characterised the Oxydrakai, another Indian race, and 
the Malloi, who were also an Indian race, for when 
shortly before this time Poros and Abisares had marched 
against them with their armies, and had besides stirred 
up many of the independent Indians against them, they 
were obliged, as it turned out, to retreat without accom- 
plishing anything at all adequate to the scale of their 
preparations. 

Alexander, on receiving this intelligence, marched 
rapidly against the Kathaians, and on the second day 
after he had left the river Hydradtes arrived at a city 

1 v. Note L, Kathaians. rural units they took to be an inde- 

2 The expression independent shows pendent republic. 

that the Greeks were cognisant of the 3 v. Note M, Sangala. 

Indian village system. Each of its 



n6 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

named Pimprama, belonging to an Indian race called the 
Adraistai, 1 which surrendered on terms of capitulation. 
Alexander gave his troops rest the next day, and on the 
third day advanced to Sangala, where the Kathaians and 
the neighbouring tribes that had joined them were mus- 
tered before the city, and drawn up in battle-order on a 
low hill, which was not on all sides precipitous. They 
lay encamped behind their waggons, which, by encircling 
the hill in three rows, protected the camp with a triple 
barricade. Alexander, on perceiving the great number of 
the barbarians, and the nature of the position they occu- 
pied, drew up his army in the order which seemed best 
suited to the circumstances, and at once despatched 
against them the horse-archers just as they were, with 
orders to ride along and shoot at the Indians from a dis- 
tance, so as not only to prevent them from making a 
sortie before his own dispositions should be completed, 
but to wound them within their stronghold even before 
the battle began. Upon his right wing he posted 
the corps of horseguards and the cavalry regiment of 
Kleitos, next to these the hypaspists, and then the 
Agrianians. The left wing he assigned to Perdikkas, 
who commanded his own cavalry regiment and the bat- 
talions of the footguards. The archers he formed into 
two bodies, and placed them upon each wing. While he 
was making these dispositions the infantry and cavalry 
which formed the rearguard arrived upon the field. This 
cavalry he divided in two parts, and led one to each wing, 
and with the infantry that had arrived he closed up the 
ranks of the phalanx more densely. Then he took the 
cavalry which had been drawn up on the right and 
advanced against the waggons ranged on the left wing 

1 The Adraistai appear to be the fied with certainty, but V. de Saint- 
people called in the Poiflfts of the Martin suggests that it may be repre- 
Erythraean Sea, the Aratrioi. Lassen sented by Bhh-anah, a place eight 
identifies them with the Aratta of the leagues distant from Lahore towards 
MalMh&rata. Diod6ros calls them the south-east. The same author 
theAdr2stai,andOrosiusinhisM'.r/»r)' thinks that the Adrastae are very 
(iii. 19) the Adrestae. Their capital, probably the A'irdvatd or Raivdtakt 
Pimprama, has not as yet been idonti- of Sanskrit. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 117 

of the Indians, where the position seemed easier to 
assault, and where the waggons were not so closely- 
packed together. 



Chapter XXIII. — Alexander drives the Kathaians into 
Sangala, which he invests on every side'} k 

But when the Indians, instead of sallying out from 
behind their waggons to attack the cavalry as it advanced, 
mounted upon them, and began to shoot from the top of 
them, Alexander saw that this was not work for cavalry, 
and so, having dismounted, he led on foot the phalanx 
of infantry against them. The Macedonians found no 
difficulty in driving the Indians from the first row of 
waggons, but on the other hand the Indians, having 
formed in line in front of the second row, were able to 
force back their assailants with greater ease, standing as 
they did more compactly together, and in a narrower 
circle, while the Macedonians had less room in which to 
operate against them. At this time they quietly drew 
back the waggons of the first row, and through the gaps 
each man, as he found an opportunity, assailed the enemy 
in an irregular way. 1 Yet even from these waggons they 
were forcibly driven by the phalanx of infantry, and even 
at the third row they no longer held ground, but fled 
with all the haste they could into the city and shut them- 
selves up within its gates. Alexander that same day 
encamped with his infantry around the city, as far at least 
as the phalanx enabled him to surround it, for the wall 
was of such great extent that his camp did not com- 
pletely environ it. Opposite the part where the gap was 
left, and where also was a lake not far from the walls, he 
posted the cavalry all round the lake, as he knew it not 
to be deep, and at the same time anticipated that the 
Indians, terrified by their previous defeat, would abandon 

1 Chinnock notes that Caesar's manner by the Helvetians. — v. 
troops were assailed in a similar Caesar's De Bella Gallico, i. 26. 



n8 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

the city during the night. The event showed he had con- 
jectured aright, for about the second watch the most of 
them dropped down from the wall and came upon the 
outposts of the cavalry. The foremost of them were cut 
to pieces by the sentinels, but those in the rear, perceiving 
that the lake was guarded all round, withdrew into the 
city. Alexander now encompassed the city with a double 
stockade, except where the lake shut it in, and around 
the lake he posted guards to keep still stricter watch. He 
resolved also to bring up the military engines against the 
place for battering down the walls. Some deserters, how- 
ever, came to him from the city and informed him that 
the Indians intended that very night to escape from the 
city by way of the lake where the gap occurred in the 
stockade. So at that point he stationed Ptolemy, the 
son of Lagos, with three divisions of the hypaspists, each 
iooo strong, all the Agrianians, and a single line of 
archers, and pointed out to him the particular spot where 
the barbarians, as he conjectured, were likeliest to attempt 
forcing their passage. " And now," said he, " when thou 
perceivest the barbarians forcing their way at this point, 
do thou with the army arrest their advance, and order the 
trumpets to sound the signal ; and do you, sirs," he added, 
turning to the officers, " as soon as the signal is given, 
each of you with your men in battle-order, hasten towards 
the noise wherever the trumpet summons you. I shall 
not myself stand idly by away from the broil." 



Chapter XXIV. — Alexander captures S angola, razes it to 
the ground, and advances to the river Hyphasis 

Such were the directions he gave, and Ptolemy in that 
place collected as many as he could of the waggons which 
the enemy had left behind in their first flight, and placed 
them athwart so that the fugitives might imagine there 
were many obstacles to their escaping by night. He 
ordered the stakes, which had been cut but not fixed in 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 119 

the ground, to be formed into stockades at different points 
between the lake and the wall. All this was done by 
the soldiers during the night. But when it was now 
about the fourth watch the barbarians, in accordance with 
the information Alexander had received, opened the gates 
which fronted the lake and rushed towards it at full 
speed. They did not, however, escape the vigilance either 
of the picquets posted there, or of Ptolemy who lay behind 
ready to support them ; and just then the trumpeters 
gave him the signal, and he advanced against the barbarians 
with his troops which were under arms and drawn up 
ready for action. The waggons, moreover, as well as the 
stockade, which had been constructed between the wall 
and the lake, impeded the fugitives ; and as soon as the 
trumpet sounded the alarm Ptolemy with his men fell 
upon them and killed them, one after another, as they 
slunk out from the waggons. Upon this the Indians fled 
back once more to the city for refuge, and as many as 
500 of them were slain in the retreat. 

Meanwhile P6ros also arrived, bringing with him the 
remainder of his elephants and a force of 5000 Indians, 
and the military engines which had been constructed by 
Alexander were now being brought up to the wall. But 
the Macedonians, before any part of it was battered down, 
took the city by storm, having undermined the wall, 
which was of brick, and planted ladders against it all 
round. In the capture 17,000 of the Indians were 
slaughtered, and more than 70,000 were captured, together 
with 300 waggons and 500 horsemen. 1 The loss in 
Alexander's army during all the siege was somewhat 
under 100 killed, but the proportion of the wounded to 
the number killed was higher than usual, for there were 
1200 wounded, including some officers, and among these 
Lysimachos, a member of the body-guard. 

Alexander having buried the dead according to 
custom, sent Eumen6s, his secretary, in command of 300 

1 Curtius gives the loss of the numbers here seem to be greatly 
Kathaians at 8000 killed. Arrian's exaggerated. 



120 



THE INVASION OF INDIA 



horsemen to the two cities which had revolted along with 
Sangala, to tell those who held them that Sangala had been 
captured, and that Alexander would not at all deal hardly 
with them if they remained where they were and received 




Fig. 9. — Eumenes. 



him in a friendly way, for that none of the independent 
Indians who had voluntarily surrendered themselves had 
received any ill-treatment at his hands. But they had 
already learned that Sangala had been stormed by Alex- 
ander, and being terrified by the news had left the cities 
and were in flight. When Alexander was informed of 
their flight he hastened after them, but as they had a long 
start of him most of them baffled his efforts to overtake 
them. Those, however, who were left behind in the 
retreat when their strength failed were taken by the troops 
and slaughtered to the number of about 500. As he 
gave up the design of pursuing the fugitives any farther, 
he drew back to Sangala and razed the city to the ground. 
The land belonging to it he made over to those Indians 
who had formerly been independent, but who had volun- 
tarily submitted to him. He then sent P6ros with his 
' own forces to the cities which had submitted to introduce 
garrisons within them, but he himself with his army 
advanced to the river Hyphasis * to conquer the Indians 



1 The Hyphasis, now the Betis or 
Beias, is variously called by the 
classical writers the Bibasis, the 
Hypasis, and the Hypanis. Its Sans- 
krit name is the (">>lW, which means 
"uncorded," and it is said to have 
been so called because it destroyed the 
cord with which one of the Indian 



sages intended to hang himself. It 
joins the Satlej (not the Hydra6tes, as 
Anian says in his Indika), and the 
united stream is called in Sanskrit the 
S'atadru, i.e. " flowing in a hundred 
channels." It marked the limit of 
Alexander's advance eastward. In 
his time it flowed in a different 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 121 

who dwelt beyond it. Nor did there appear to him any 
end of the war as long as an enemy remained to be 
encountered. 



Chapter XXV. — Alexander finding the army unwilling to 
advance beyond the Hyphasis, convokes his officers and 
addresses them on the subject 

It was reported that the country beyond the Hyphasis 
was exceedingly fertile, and that the inhabitants were 
good agriculturists, brave in war, and living under an 
excellent system of internal government ; for the multitude 
was governed by the aristocracy, who exercised their 
authority with justice and moderation. It was also 
reported that the people there had a greater number of 
elephants than the other Indians, and that those were 
of superior size and courage. This information only 
whetted Alexander's eagerness to advance farther, but 
the Macedonians now began to lose heart when they 
saw the king raising up without end toils upon toils and 
dangers upon dangers. The army, therefore, began to 
hold conferences at which the more moderate men be- 
wailed their condition, while others positively asserted 
that they would follow no farther though Alexander him- 
self should lead the way. When this came to Alexander's 
knowledge he convoked the officers in command of 
brigades, before the disorder and despondency should 

channel, one by which it reached the elsewhere, and he then proceeded to 

Chenab about 40 miles above Uchh. the bank of the river. The country ) 

Curtius and Diodoros inform us that beyond it Arrian represents as exceed- 

Alexander before reaching this river ingly fertile, whereas in Curtius and 

had entered the dominions of King Diodoros we read how Alexander was 

Sophites, who submitted without re- informed that a desert lay beyond it 

sistance, and was therefore left in which would occupy a journey of 

possession of his sovereignty. Another eleven days. Arrian's statement holds 

chief (called Phegeus by Diodoros, true of the northern districts beyond 

but more correctly Phegelas by Cur- the river, and the other statement of 

tius), whose dominions adjoined the the southern districts. Thirlwall, 

Hyphasis, entertained Alexander and following the latter statement, takes 

his army for two days. By this time it that Alexander reached the Satlej 

he had been rejoined by Hephaistion, after it had received the Hyphasis, 

who had been conducting operations but this is a very questionable view. 



122 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

be further developed among the soldiers, and he thus 
addressed them : 

" On seeing that you, O Macedonians and allies ! no 
longer follow me into dangers with your wonted alacrity, 
I have summoned you to this assembly that I may either 
persuade you to go farther, or be persuaded by you to 
turn back. If you have reason to complain of past 
labours, and of me your leader, I need say no more. But 
if by those labours you have acquired Ionia, 1 and the 
Hellespont with the two Phrygias, Kappadokia, Paphla- 
gonia, Lydia, Karia, Lykia, and Pamphylia, as well as 
Phoenikia and Egypt, together with Hellenic Lybia, part 
of Arabia, Hollow Syria, Mesopotamia, Babylon, Sousiana, 
Persis, and Media, and all the provinces governed by the 
Medes and Persians, not to mention other states which 
were never subject to them ; if in addition we have 
conquered the regions beyond the Kaspian Gates, those 
beyond Kaukasos, the Tanais 2 also, and the country 
beyond, Baktria, Hyrkania, and the Hyrkanian Sea ; if 
we have driven the Skythians back into their deserts, and 
if besides, the Indus, Hydaspes, Akesines, and Hydra6tes 
flow through territories that are ours, why should you 
hesitate to pass the Hyphasis also and add the tribes 
beyond it to your Macedonian conquests ? Are you 
afraid there are other barbarians who may jet successfully 
resist you, although of those we have already met some 
have willingly submitted, others have been captured in 
flight, while others have left us their deserted country to 
be distributed either to our allies or to those who have 
voluntarily submitted to us." 

1 The name of Ion, the eponymous - The Tanais is properly the Don, 

ancestor of the Ionians, had origin- but Alexander meant by it the Jax- 

ally the digamma, and hence was artes, which formed the eastern 

written as Ivon. The Hebrew trans- boundary of the Persian empire, and 

caption of this digammated form is which he had crossed to attack the 

favan, the name by which Greece is nomadic Skythians, who had made 

designated in the Bible. The Sans- threatening demonstrations against 

knt transcription is Yavana, the name him on the right or northern bank [v. 

applied in Indian works to Ionians or the 16th and 17th chapters of the 

Greeks and foreigners generally. fourth book). 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 123 



Chapter XXVI. — Continuation of Alexanders Speech 

" For my part, I think that to a man of spirit there 
is no other aim and end of his labours except the labours 
themselves, provided they be such as lead him to the 
performance of glorious deeds. But if any one wishes 
to know the limits of the present warfare, let him under- 
stand that the river Ganges and the Eastern Sea are now 
at no great distance off. This sea, I am confident, is 
connected with the Hyrkanian Sea, because the Great Ocean 
flows round the whole earth. 1 I shall besides prove to 
the Macedonians and their allies that the Indian Gulf 
is connected with the Persian, and the Hyrkanian Sea 
with the Indian Gulf. From the Persian Gulf our fleet 
will sail round to Lybia as far as the Pillars of Herakles. 2 
From these pillars all the interior of Lybia becomes ours, 
and thus all Asia shall belong to us, 8 and the boundaries 
of our empire in that direction will coincide with those 
which the deity has made the boundaries of the earth. 

1 It was a prevalent belief in ranean by the Pillars of Hercules." 
antiquity that the Kaspian or Hyr- Herodotos (iv. 42) says that Neko, 
kanian Sea was a gulf of the great king of the Egyptians, sent certain 
ocean which encircles the earth, and Phoenicians in ships with orders to 
not an inland sea. sail back through the Pillars of 

2 Arrian (vii. 1) says: "When Hercules into the Northern Sea (the 
Alexander reached Pasargadai and Mediterranean that is), and so to 
Persepolis he conceived an ardent return to Egypt. The pillars de- 
desire to sail down the Euphrates and signated the twin rocks which guard 
Tigres to "the Persian sea, and survey the entrance to the Mediterranean at 
their mouths. . . . Some writers have the eastern extremity of the Straits of 
stated that he had in contemplation a Gibraltar, the one on the European 
voyage round the greater portion of side being called Kalpe, and that on 
Arabia, the land of the Aethiopians, the African side, where now stands 
Lybia, and Numidia beyond Mount the citadel of Ceuta, Abila or Abyla. 
Atlas to Gadeira (Cadiz) inward into u. Pliny (iii. prooem.) : " Proximis 
the Mediterranean." One of the autem faucibus utrimque impositi 
writers referred to is Plutarch, who montes coercent claustra, Abyla 
says {Alexander, c. 68) : " Nearchos Africae, Europae Calpe, laborum 
joined him (Alexander) here (at the Herculis metae, quam ob causam in- 
capital of Gedrosia), and he was so digenae columnas ejus dei vocant." 
much delighted with the account of 3 Arrian (iii. 30) informs us that 
his voyage that he formed a design to in the opinion of some the Nile formed 
sail in person from the Euphrates with the boundary of Asia, but he writes 
a great fleet, circle the coast of Arabia here as if Lybia or Northern Africa 
and Africa, and enter the Mediter- were part of Asia. 



124 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

But, if we now turn back, many warlike nations extending 
beyond the Hyphasis to the Eastern Sea, and many others 
lying northwards between these and Hyrkania, to say 
nothing of their neighbours the Skythian tribes, will be 
left behind us unconquered, so that if we turn back 
there is cause to fear lest the conquered nations, as 
yet wavering in their fidelity, may be instigated to revolt 
by those who are still independent. Our many labours 
will in that case be all completely thrown away, or we 
must enter on a new round of toils and dangers. But 
persevere, O Macedonians and allies! glory crowns the 
deeds of those who expose themselves to toils and 
dangers. Life, signalised by deeds of valour, is delight- 
ful, and so is death, if we leave behind us an immortal 
name. Know ye not that it was not by staying at home 
in Tiryns 1 or Argos, or even in Peloponnesos or Thebes, 
that our ancestor was exalted to such glory, that from 
being a man he became, or was thought to be, a god. 
Nor were the labours few even of Dionysos, who ranks 
as a god far above Herakles. But we have advanced 
beyond Nysa, and the rock Aornos, which proved impreg- 
nable to Herakles, is in our possession. Add, then, the 
rest of Asia to our present acquisitions — the smaller part 
of it to the greater. Could we ourselves, think you, have 
achieved any great and memorable deeds if, sitting down 
at home in Macedonia, we had been content without 
exertion merely to preserve our own country, by repelling 
the attacks of the neighbouring Thracians, Illyrians, and 
Triballians, or those Greeks whose disposition to us is 
unfriendly ? 

" If, indeed, while leading you, I had myself shrunk from 
the toils and dangers to which you were exposed, you 
would not without good reason be dispirited in prospect 
of undertaking fresh enterprises, seeing that while you 
alone shared the toils, it was for . others you procured 

1 The Macedonian Icings claimed of the most ancient cities in Greece, 
to be descended from 1 Uialdes, who situated near Argos, and, like Argos, 
resided for some time at Tiryns, one famous for its Cyclopean walls. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 125 

the rewards. But our labours are in common ; I, equally 
with you, share in the dangers, and the rewards become 
the public property. For the land is yours, and you 
are its satraps ; and among you the greater part of its 
treasures has already been distributed. And when all 
Asia is subdued then, by heaven, I will not merely satisfy, 
but exceed every man's hopes and wishes. Such of you 
as wish to return home I shall send back to your own 
country, or even myself will lead you back. But those 
who remain here I will make objects of envy to those 
who go back." 



Chapter XXVII. — Koinos, replying to Alexander, states 
the grievances of the army 

When Alexander had spoken to this and the like 
effect, a long silence followed, because those present neither 
dared to speak freely in opposition to the king, nor yet 
wished to assent to what he proposed. Alexander again 
and again requested that any one who wished should 
speak, even if his views differed from those which he 
had himself expressed. But the silence was unbroken 
for a long time, till at last Koinos, the son of Polemokrates, 
summoned up courage and spoke to this effect : 

" Forasmuch as you do not wish, O king ! to rule 
Macedonians by constraint, but say that you will lead 
them by persuasion, or suffering yourself to be persuaded 
by them, will not have recourse to compulsion, I intend 
to speak, not on behalf of myself and fellow-officers who 
have been honoured above the other soldiers, and have 
most of us received splendid rewards of our labours, 
and from having been highly exalted above others are 
more zealous than others to serve you in all things, but 
in behalf of the great body of the army. Yet on behalf 
of this army I intend not to say what may be agreeable 
to the men, but what I think will be conducive to your 
present interests and safest for the future. I feel bound 



I2 6 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

by my age not to conceal what appears to be the best 
course to follow ; bound by the high authority conferred 
on me by yourself, and bound also by the unhesitating 
boldness which I have hitherto exhibited in all enterprises 
of danger. The more I look to the number and magni- 
tude of the exploits performed under your command by 
us who set out with you from home, the more does it 
seem to me expedient to place some limit to our toils 
and dangers. For you see yourself how many Macedonians 
and Greeks started with you, and how few of us are left. 
From our ranks you sent away home from Baktra the 
Thessalians 1 as soon as you saw they had no stomach 
for further toils, and in this you acted wisely. Of the 
other Greeks, some have been settled in the cities founded 
by you, where all of them are not willing residents; 
others still share our toils and dangers. They and the 
Macedonian army have lost some of their numbers in 
the fields of battle ; others have been disabled by wounds ; 
others have been left behind in different parts of Asia, 
but the majority have perished by disease. A few only 
out of many survive, and these few possessed no longer 
of the same bodily strength as before, while their spirits 
are still more depressed. 2 All those, whose parents are 
still living, have a yearning to see them — a yearning 
to see their wives and children — a yearning to see were 
it but their native land itself — a desire pardonable in 
men who would return home in great splendour derived 
from your munificence, and raised from humble to high 
rank, and from indigence to wealth. Seek not, therefore, 
to lead them against their inclinations, for you will not 
find them the same men in the face of dangers, if they 
enter without heart into their contests with the enemy. 

1 " Alexander," says Arrian (iii. - The drenching rains to which 
19), "on reaching Ekbatana, sent the Macedonian soldiers were con- 
back to the sea the Thessalian cavalry tinually exposed during their march 
and the other Grecian allies, paying from Taxila to the Hyphasis must 
them the full amount of the stipulated have had a considerable effect in ex- 
hire, and giving them besides a dona- hausting their strength and depressing 
tive of 2000 talents." Was Baktra a their spirits, 
slip of memory on the part of Koinos ? 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 127 

But do you also, if it agree with your wishes, return 
home with us, see your mother once more, settle the 
affairs of the Greeks, and carry to the house of your 
fathers those your great and numerous victories. Then 
having so done, form, if you so wish, a fresh expedition 
against these same tribes of eastern Indians, or, if you 
prefer, against the shores of the Euxine Sea, or against 
Karchedon, 1 and the parts of Lybia beyond the Karche- 
donians. It will then be your part to unfold your 
purpose, and then other Macedonians and other Greeks 
will follow you — young men full of vigour instead of old 
men worn out with toils — men for whom war, through 
their inexperience of it, has no immediate terrors, and 
eager to set out from the hope of future rewards. They 
will also naturally follow you with the greater alacrity, 
from seeing that the companions of your former toils 
and dangers have returned home wealthy instead of 
poor, and raised to high distinction from their original 
obscurity. Moderation, in the midst of success, is, O 
king ! the noblest of virtues, for though, at the head of 
so brave an army, you have nothing to dread from mortal 
foes, yet the visitations of the deity cannot be foreseen, 
and man cannot, therefore, guard against them." 



Chapter XX VIII. — Alexander mortified by the refusal of his 
army to advance, secludes himself in his tent, but in 
the end resolves to return 

When Koinos had concluded his address, those present 
are said to have signified their approval of what he said 
by loud applause, while many by their streaming tears 
showed still more expressively their aversion to encounter 
further dangers, and how welcome to them was the idea 
of returning. But Alexander, who resented the freedom 

1 Karchedon is Carthage. The to Utica, which either signifies in 

name is said to be a corruption of Phoenician " old city," or is derived, 

Kereth-Hadeshoth or Carth-hadtha, as Olshausen, thinks, from a root 

i.e. "new city," in contra-distinction signifying "a colony." 



128 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

with which Koinos had spoken, and the hesitation displayed 
by the other generals, broke up the conference ; but next 
day while his wrath was still hot he summoned the same 
men again, and told them that he was going forward him- 
self, but would not force any of the Macedonians to 
accompany him against their wishes, for he would find 
men ready to follow their king of their own free will. 
But those who wished to go away were free to go home, 
and might tell their friends there that they had returned, 
and left their king in the midst of his enemies. It is said 
that with these words he withdrew into his tent, and did 
not admit any of his companions to see him on that day, 
nor even till the third day after, waiting to see whether a 
change of mood, such as often takes place in an assemblage 
of soldiers, would manifest itself among the Macedonians 
and the allies, and make them readier to yield to his 
persuasions. But when a deep silence again reigned 
throughout the camp, and the soldiers were evidently 
offended by his wrath without their minds being changed 
by it, he began none the less, as Ptolemy, the son of Lagos, 
states, to offer there sacrifice for the passage of the river; 
but when on sacrificing he found the omens were against 
him, he then assembled the oldest of the Companions, and 
especially his intimate friends among them, and as every- 
thing indicated that to return was his most expedient 
course he intimated to the army that he had resolved to 
march back. 



Chapter XXIX. — Alexander erects altars on tlie banks oft/ie 
Hyphasis to mark the limits of his advance, recrosses 
the Hydraoth and Akesines and regains the Hydasph 

Then they shouted, as a mixed multitude would shout 
when rejoicing, and many of them shed tears. Some of 
them even approached the royal pavilion, and invoked 
many blessings on Alexander, because by them and them 
only did he permit himself to be vanquished. He then 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 129 

divided the army into brigades, which he ordered to 
prepare twelve altars 1 to equal in height the highest 
military towers, and to exceed them in point of breadth, to 
serve as thankofferings to the gods who had led him so 
far as a conqueror, and also as a memorial of his own 
labours. When the altars had been constructed, he offered 
sacrifice upon them with the customary rites, and cele- 
brated a gymnastic and equestrian contest. Having 
thereafter committed all the country west of the river 
Hyphasis to the government of Pdros, he marched back 
to the Hydradtes. After crossing this river, he retraced 
his steps to the Akesinels, and on arriving there found 
the city which he had ordered Hephaisti6n to fortify 
completely built. 2 Herein he settled as many of the in- 
habitants of the neighbourhood as were willing to make 
it their domicile, and such also of the mercenary soldiers 
as were now unfit for further service. He then began 
to make preparations for the downward voyage to the 
Great Sea. 

At this time Arsak6s, 3 ruler of the country adjoining 
the dominions of Abisares, together with the brother of 
Abisares and his other relatives, came to him, bringing 
presents such as the Indians consider the most valuable, 
and some thirty elephants sent by Abisares. They re- 
presented that Abisares was prevented from coming in 
person by illness — a statement which the ambassadors 
sent by Alexander to Abisares corroborated. Alexander, 
readily believing that such was the case, made Abisares 
satrap of his own dominions, and moreover placed Arsakels 
under his jurisdiction. Having then fixed the amount which 
was to be paid as tribute, he again offered sacrifice near 

1 See Note N, Alexander's altars here has a width of about a mile and 
on the Hyphasis. a half. 

2 "This city," says Lassen, "lay 3 Arsakes, to judge from his name 
probably where Wazirabad now and what is here said of him, was 
stands. Here the great road to the probably the king of Uras'a. This 
Hydaspes parts into two, one leading district, the Arsa of Ptolemy, the 
to Jalalpur, and the other to Jhelam. W-la-shi of Hwen Thsiang, and now 
It is the sixth of the Alexandreias Rash in Dantawar, included all the 
mentioned in Stephanos Byz." v. hill country between the Indus and 
Ind. Alt. ii. 165, u. The Chenab Kas'mir as far south as Attak. 



i 3 o THE INVASION OF INDIA 

the river Akesin£s. He then recrossed that river, and 
reached the Hydasp&s where he employed his army in 
repairing the damage caused by the rains to the cities of 
Nikaia and Boukephala, and set the other affairs of the 
country in order. 



Sixth Book / 

Chapter I. — Alexander mistakes the Indus for the upper 
Nile — Prepares to sail down stream, to the sea 

WHEN Alexander had got ready upon the banks of the 
Hydaspes a large number of thirty-oared galleys, and 
others of one bank and a half of oars, besides numerous 
horse transports and every other requisite for the easy 
conveyance of an army by river, he resolved to sail down 
the Hydaspes 1 to the Great Sea. As he had before this 
seen crocodiles in the river Indus, and in no other river 
but the Nile only, and had besides seen beans of the same 
species as those which Egypt produces 2 growing near the 
banks of the Akesines, and as he had heard that this river 
falls into the Indus, he was led to think that he had dis- 
covered the sources of the Nile. His idea was that this 
river rose somewhere among the Indians and pursued its 
course through a vast tract of desert country, where it lost 

1 v. Strabo (XV. i. 29). Between the Indian Caucasus, which most 

the Hydaspes and Akesines ... is satisfactorily explains the selection of 

the forest in the neighbourhood of the its banks by Alexander in preference 

Emodoi mountains, in which Alex- to the other rivers. " Bunbury, citing 

ander cut down a large quantity of this passage, adds: " The navigation 

fir, pine, cedar, and a variety of other of the Indus itself for a considerable 

trees fit for shipbuilding, and brought part of its course below Attock is so 

the timber down the Hydaspes. With dangerous on account of rapids as to 

this he constructed a fleet on the render it wholly unsuitable for the 

Hydaspes near the cities which he descent of a flotilla such as that of 

built on each side of the river where Alexander." 

he had crossed it and conquered 2 This is the nelumbum speciosum, 

Poros. "The timber," says Sir A. or Cyathus Smithii, the sacred 

Burnes, "of which the boats of the Egyptian or Pythagorean bean. The 

Panjab are constructed is chiefly use of its fruit was forbidden to the 

floated down by the Hydaspes from Egyptian priests {v. Herod, ii. 37). 



, 32 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

the name of the Indus, and that from the time when it 
began to flow through the inhabited parts of the world it 
was called the Nile both by the Aithiopians, who lived 
there and by the Egyptians, just as Homer also changed 
its name, calling it the river Egypt after Egypt, the 
country where at last it discharges itself into the Inner 
Sea. 1 Accordingly when he was writing to his mother 
Olympias about the country of the Indians, he mentioned, 
it is said, among other things that he thought he had dis- 
covered the sources of the Nile, actually basing on such 
slight and comtemptible evidence his judgements respect- 
ing questions of so much importance. When, however, 
he investigated with special care the facts relating to the 
river Indus, he ascertained from the natives that the 
Hydaspes unites with the Akesines, and the Akesines with 
the Indus, to which the other two rivers lose both their 
waters and their names. He learned further that the 
Indus discharges itself into the Great Sea by two mouths, 
and that it has no connection with the Egyptian country. 
He is said to have then deleted what he had written 
about the Nile in the letter to his mother, and as he had 
set his mind on sailing down the rivers to the Great Sea 
he ordered a fleet for this purpose to be prepared for him. 
Adequate crews for the vessels were supplied by the 
Phoenicians, Cyprians, Karians, and Egyptians who ac- 
companied the army. 

1 " It is remarkable to see how in of the Indus from the time it has 

this respect the geographical informa- received the waters of the Panjab 

tion of the Greeks seems to have with Egypt is dwelt upon by modem 

retrograded since the time of Hero- travellers. One description (says 

dotus. No allusion is found to the Mr. Elphinstone) might serve for 

voyage of Scylax related by that both. A smooth and fertile plain is 

historian, while the just conclusions bounded on one side by mountains, 

derived from it by Herodotus had and on the other by a desert. It is 

fallen into the same oblivion. But divided by a large river, which forms 

absurd as was this identification (of a Delta as it approaches the sea, and 

the Indus with the Nile), the general annually inundates and enriches the 

resemblance between these rivers, country near its banks. The climate 

which are constantly brought into of both is hot and dry, and rain is of 

comparison by the Greek geographers rare occurrence in either country. — 

(Strabo, XV. p. 692, etc.), is certainly v. Bunbury's Hist, of Anc. Geo. V- 

such as to justify their observations. 510. 
The resemblance of the lower valley 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 133 



Chapter II. — Description of the voyage down the Hydaspis 

At this time Koinos, who was one of Alexander's most 
faithful companions, took ill and died, and his master buried 
him with all the magnificence circumstances allowed. He 
then assembled the Companions and all the ambassadors 
of the Indians who had come to him, and in their presence 
appointed Poros king of all the Indian territories already 
subjugated — seven nations in all, containing more than 
2000 cities. He then made the following distribution of 
his army. He took in the ships along with himself all 
the hypaspists, and the archers, and the Agrianians, and 
the corps of horse-guards. 1 Krateros commanding a 
division of the infantry and cavalry, conducted it along 
the right bank of the Hydaspes, while Hephaistidn on the 
opposite bank advanced in command of the largest and 
best division of the army, to which the elephants, now 
about 200 in number, were attached. These generals 
were instructed to march with all possible speed to where 
the palace of Sopeithes 2 was situated. Philippos, the 

1 Arrian in the 19th chapter of was unable to decide where they lay. 
the Indika states that the number of ' ' Some writers (he says) place Kathaia 
men conveyed in the fleet was 8000, and the country of Sopeithes, one of 
and that the whole strength of his the monarchs, in the tract between 
army was 120,000 soldiers, including the rivers (Hydaspes and Akesines) ; 
those whom he brought from the some on the other side of the Akes- 
shores of the Mediterranean, as well ines and of the Hyarotis, on the con- 
as recruits drawn from various bar- fines of the territory of the other 
barous tribes armed in their own P6ros, the nephew of P6ros who was 
fashion. In the preceding chapter taken prisoner by Alexander, and 
he gives a list of the great officers call the country subject to him Gan- 
whom Alexander appointed to be daris. ... It is said that in the 
in temporary command of the triremes. territory of Sopeithes there is a moun- 
Of these, thirty-three in number, tain composed of fossil salt sufficient 
twenty-four were Macedonians, eight for the whole of India. Valuable 
were Greeks, and one a Persian. mines, also, both of gold and silver, 
Seleukos is the only officer of note are situated, it is said, not far off 
whose name does not appear in this among other mountains, according to 
list. the testimony of Gorgos the miner." 

2 Diodoros and Curtius, as has Strabo then describes (as do also 
been pointed out (in Note M), place DiodSros and Curtius) the fight be- 
the dominions of Sopeithes between tween a lion and four dogs which 
theupperHydraotesandtheHyphasis, Sopeithes exhibited to Alexander, 
but here we find them transferred To account for the discrepancy in 
to a more western position. Strabo these statements one is almost tempted 



i 3 4 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

satrap of the province lying west of the Indus in the 
direction of the Baktrians, received orders to follow them 
with his troops after an interval of three days, but the 
cavalry of the Nysaians he now sent back to Nysa. The 
command of the whole naval squadron was entrusted to 
Nearchos, while the pilot of Alexander's own ship was 
Onesikritos, who, in the narrative which he composed 
about the wars of Alexander, among his other lies, 
described himself as the commander of the fleet, although 
he was in reality only a pilot. According to Ptolemy, the 
son of Lagos, whose authority I principally follow, the 
ships numbered collectively eighty thirty-oared galleys, 
but the whole fleet, including the horse-transports and 
the small craft and other river boats consisting of those 
that formerly plied on the rivers and those recently built 
for the present service, did not fall much short of 2000. 1 



Chapter III. — Description of tJie voyage down the Hydasph 

continued 

When all the preparations had been completed, the 

army at break of day began to embark. Alexander him- 

to believe that as there were two 1 Arrian in his Indika, where he 

princes of the name of Poros, each apparently follows Nearchos instead 

ruling dominions of his own, so there of Ptolemy as here, gives the whole 

were also two chiefs of the name of number of ships at only 800, includ- 

Sopeithes or (as Curtius more correctly ing both ships of war and transports, 

transcribes it) Sophytes. General Schmieder and some other editors 

Cunningham would identify Gandaris would correct this to 1800, but it 

with the present district of Gundul- seems more probable, Bunbury thinks, 

b&r or Gundurb&r, and fixes the that the basis of the two calculations 

capital of Sophytes on the western was different. Ptolemy, he says, dis- 

bank of the Hydaspes at Old Bhira, tinctly includes the ordinary river 

a place near Ahmedabad, with a very boats which would doubtless have 

extensive mound of ruins, and distant been collected in large numbers to 

from Nikaia (now Mong) three days assist in transporting so great an army 

by water. His rule must have ex- and its supplies ; while the terms of 

tended westward to the Indus, since Nearchos would seem to imply only 

the mountain of rock-saltwhichStrabo ships of war or regular transports, 

includes in his territory can only refer Krilger would correct the 2000 of 

to the salt range (the Mount Oromenus the text to loco, whichis the number 

or Pliny, xxxi. 39) which extends of the vessels as given by Diodoros 

from the Indus to the Hydaspes. and Curtius. The fleet began the 

1 he transcription of the name Sdphyth downward voyage at the end of 

will be found discussed elsewhere. October 326 B.C. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 135 

self sacrificed according to custom both to the gods and 
to the river Akesines as the seers directed. After he had 
embarked he poured a libation into the river, from his 
station on the prow, out of a golden bowl, and invoked 
not only the Hydaspes, but also the Akesines, as he had 
learned that the Akesines was the greatest of all the 
confluents of the Hydaspes, and that their point of junction 
was not far off. He invoked likewise the Indus, into 
which the Akesines falls after receiving the Hydaspes. 
He further poured out libations to his ancestor Herakles, 
and to Ammon 1 and every other god to whom it was his 
custom to sacrifice, and then he ordered the signal for 
starting on the voyage to be given by sound of trumpet. 
The fleet as soon as the signal sounded began the voyage 
in due order, for directions had been given at what dis- 
tances the luggage-boats, the horse-transports, and the 
war-galleys should keep apart from each other to prevent 
collisions which would be inevitable if the ships sailed at 
random down the channel. Even the fast sailers were 
not allowed to break rank by out-distancing the others. 
The noise caused by the rowing was great beyond all 
precedent, proceeding as it did from a vast number of 
boats being rowed simultaneously, and swelled by the 
shouts of the officers directing the rowing to begin or to 
stop, commingled with the shouts of the rowers, which rung 
like the war-cry when they joined together in keeping 
time to the dashing of the oars. The banks, moreover, 
being in many places higher than the ships, and compres- 
sing the sound within a narrow compass, sent the echoes, 
greatly increased by the compression itself, flying to and 
fro between them. The ravines also which occasionally 
opened on the river on either of its shores served further 
to swell the din by reverberating amid their solitudes the 

1 Alexander deduced his pedigree oracle for the purpose of more certainly 

from Amm6n, just as the legend learning his origin. His mother, 

traced the pedigree of Herakles and Olympias, according to Plutarch, 

Perseus to Zeus. He accordingly used to complain that Alexander was 

made an expedition to the oasis in the for ever embroiling her with Juno. 
Libyan desert where Amm6n had his 



136 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

thuds of the oars. The appearance of the war-horses on 
the decks of the transports struck the barbarians, who saw 
them through the lattice work, with such wonder and 
astonishment, that the throng which lined the shores to 
witness the departure of the fleet accompanied it to a 
great distance, for in the country of the Indians horses 
had never before been seen on shipboard, nor was there 
any tradition to the effect that the Indian expedition of 
Dionysos was of a naval character. Those Indians also 
who had already submitted to Alexander, as soon as they 
heard the shouts of the rowers and the dashing of the 
oars, ran down to the edge of the river and followed the 
fleet, singing their wild native chaunts, for the Indians have 
been peculiarly distinguished among the nations as lovers 
of dance and song, ever since Dionysos and his attendant 
Bacchanals made their festive progress through the realms 
of India. 1 



Chapter I V. — Alexander accelerates Jus voyage to frustrate 
the plans of the Malloi and Oxydrakai, and reaches 
the turbulent confluence of the Hydaspes and Akesines 

Alexander sailing thus, 2 halted on the third day at the 
place where he had ordered Hephaistion and Krateros to 
pitch their camps right opposite each other, each on his 
own side of the river. 8 Having waited here for two days 
until Philippos arrived with the rest of the army, he sent 
that general forward with the detachment he had brought 
with him to the river Akesines, with orders to continue 
his march along the banks of that river. He also sent 
Krateros and Hephaistidn off again with instructions how 
they were to conduct the march. He himself continued 

1 '"The Indians (says Arrian in ' J See Note O, Voyage down the 

his Indika, c. 7) worship the other Hydaspes and Akesines to the Indus, 

gods, and especially Dionysos, with s This halting-place was at Bhira 

cymbals and drums, which he had or Bheda, if Cunningham is right in 

taught them to use. He taught them fixing the capital of Sophytes in its 

also the Satyric dance, called by the neighbourhood. 
Greeks Kordax. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 137 

his voyage down the river Hydaspes, which was found 
throughout the passage to be nowhere less than twenty 
stadia in breadth. Mooring his boats wherever he could 
on the banks, he subjected the Indians who lived near 
the Hydaspes to his authority, some having surrendered 
on terms of capitulation, and such as resorted to arms, 
having been subdued by force. He then sailed rapidly 
to the country of the Malloi and Oxydrakai, because 
he had ascertained that they were the most numerous and 
warlike of all the Indian tribes in those parts, and news 
had reached him that they had conveyed their children, 
and their wives for safety into their strongest cities, 
and that they meant themselves to give him a hostile 
reception. He in consequence prosecuted the voyage 
with still greater speed, so that he might attack them 
before they had settled their plans, and while their pre- 
parations were still incomplete and they were in a state 
of confusion and alarm. On the fifth day after he had 
started from the place where he had halted, and been 
joined by Krateros and H£phaisti6n, he reached the junc- 
tion of the Hydaspes and Akesines. Where these rivers 
unite the one river formed from them is very narrow, and 
not only is the current swift from the narrowness of the 
channel, but the waters whirl round in monstrous eddies, 
curl up in great billows, and dash so violently that the 
roar of the surge is distinctly heard by those who are 
still a great distance off. All this had been previously 
reported by the natives to Alexander, and he had repeated 
the information to the soldiers ; but, notwithstanding, when 
the army in approaching the confluence caught the roar 
of the stream, the sailors simultaneously suspended the 
action of the oars, not at any order from the boatswains, 
who had become mute from astonishment, but because 
they were stunned with terror by the thundering noise. 1 

1 Diodoros carelessly represents by the ancient writers, though their 
these rapids as occurring at the con- accounts have some foundation in 
fluence of the two rivers with the fact. Sir A. Burnes, the first Euro- 
Indus. The dangers of their naviga- pean known to have visited the spot, 
tion seem to have been exaggerated says there are no eddies and no rocks, 



1 38 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Chapter V. — Dangers encountered by the fleet at the con- 
fluence — Plan of the operations which followed^- 
Voyage down the Akesines 

When they were not far from the meeting of the rivers, 
the pilots enjoined the rowers to put all their strength to 
the oars to clear the rapids, so that the vessels might not 
be caught and capsized in the eddies, but by the exertions 
of the rowers might overcome the whirling of the waters. 
The merchant vessels accordingly, if they happened to be 
whirled round by the current, suffered no damage from 
the eddy, beyond the alarm caused to the men on board, 
for these vessels, being of a round form, were kept upright 
by the current itself, and settled into the proper course. 
But the ships of war did not escape so unscathed from the 
eddying stream, for, owing to their length, they were not 
upheaved in the same way as the others on the seething 
surges, and if they had two banks of oars, the lower oars 
were not raised much above the level of the water. When 
the broad sides, therefore, of these vessels were exposed 
to the eddying current, their oars, if not lifted in proper 
time, were caught by the water and the blades snapped 
asunder. Many of the ships were thus damaged, and two 
which fell foul of each other sunk with the greater part of 
their crews. But when the river began to widen out, the 
current was no longer so rapid and dangerous, and the 
impetuosity of the eddies diminished. Alexander there- 
fore brought his fleet to moorings on the right bank where 
there was a protection from the strength of the current 
and a roadstead for the ships. Here was also a headland 
projecting into the river which afforded facilities for col- 
lecting the wrecks and whatever living freight they brought. 

nor is the channel confined, while season when the river is swollen (v. 

the ancient character is only sup- Travels, i. p. 109). Thirlwall thinks 

ported by the noise of the confluence, the principal obstructions have been 

which is greater than that of any of worn away. According to Curtius, 

the other rivers. The boatmen of Alexander's own ship was here in 

the locality, however, still regard the imminent danger of being wrecked, 
passage as a perilous one during the 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 139 

He saved the survivors ; and when he had repaired the 
damaged craft, ordered Nearchos to sail downward till he 
reached the confines of the nation called the Malloi. He 
made himself an inroad into the territories of the bar- 
barians who refused their submission, 1 and prevented them 
sending succours to the Malloi. He then rejoined the 
fleet. 

Hephaistion, Krateros, and Philippos had there already 
united their forces. He then transported to the other side 
of the river Hydaspes the elephants, the brigade of Poly- 
sperchon, the archers, and Philippos with the troops under 
his command, and appointed Krateros to conduct this 
expedition. Nearchos he despatched in command of the 
fleet, and instructed him to start on the voyage three days 
before the departure of the army. The rest of his forces 
he divided into three parts. Hephaistidn was directed to 
set out five days in advance, so that if any of the enemy 
fled forward before the division commanded by the king 
in person they might be captured, when endeavouring to 
escape in that direction, by falling into Hephaistion's 
hands. He gave also a part of the army to Ptolemy, the 
son of Lagos, with orders to follow him three days later, 
so that such of the enemy as fled backward from his own 
troops might fall into the hands of those under Ptolemy. 2 
The detachment that marched in advance he ordered to 
wait until he himself should come up at the confluence of 
the Akesines and Hydraotes, 3 where Krateros and Ptolemy 
had orders to join him with their divisions. 

1 These barbarians were probably 3 The Hydaspes loses its name as 
the Sibi {v. Diodoros, xvii. 96). well as its waters to the Akesines. 

2 Hephaistion by this arrangement The junction of the latter with the 
would beset the banks of the Hydra- Hydraotes (Ravi) occurs at present 
otes, Ptolemy those of the Akesines. at a. point more than thirty miles 
The former probably marched to the above Multan, but in Alexander's 
Hydraotes by way of Shorkote, time it occurred some miles below 
which Cunningham thinks may be that city. 

the Soriane of Stephanos Byz. 



i 4 o THE INVASION OF INDIA 



Chapter VI. — Alexander invades the territories of the 
Malloi 

Alexander selected for his own division the hypaspists, 
the archers, the Agrianians, the corps of foot-guards under 
Peith6n, all the horse-archers, and the half of the com- 
panion cavalry, and led them through a waterless tract of 
country against the Malloi, 1 a race of independent Indians. 
On the first day he encamped near a small stream which 
was twenty stadia distant from the river Akesines. 
Having dined there and allowed the army a short time 
for repose, he ordered every man to fill whatever vessel he 
had with water. He then marched during the remainder 
of the day and all night a distance of about 400 stadia, 
and with the dawn arrived before a city to which many of 
the Malloi had fled for refuge. As they never imagined 
that Alexander would come to attack them through the 
waterless desert, most of them were abroad in the fields, 
and without their arms ; and just as it was manifest that 
he led his forces by this route because of the difficulties 
it presented, so did it appear to the enemy past belief 
that he would conduct an army by a way so perilous. 
He thus fell upon them unexpectedly, and slew most of 
them without their even turning to offer resistance, since 
they were unarmed. The rest he shut up within the city, 
and as the phalanx of infantry had not yet arrived, he 
posted the cavalry in a cordon round the wall, thus 
making it serve for a stockade. No sooner, however, did 
the infantry come up than he despatched Perdikkas with 
his own cavalry regiment and that of Kleitos, together 
with the Agrianians, to another city of the Malloi, into 
which many of the Indians of that district had fled 
for refuge. He was enjoined to blockade the men in the 
city, but not to attempt to storm the place until his own 
arrival, so that no one might escape and carry the news of 
Alexander's approach to the other barbarians. He then 

1 See Note P, The Malloi and Oxydrakai. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



141 



made an assault upon the wall, which the barbarians 
abandoned on seeing it could no longer hold out, since 
many had been killed during the siege, and others dis- 
abled for fighting by reason of their wounds. They fled 
into the citadel, which, being seated on a commanding 
height and difficult of access, they continued to defend 
for some time. As the Macedonians, however, vigorously 
pressed the attack at all points, while Alexander himself 
was seen everywhere urging forward the work, the citadel 
was stormed, and all the men who had fled to it for 
refuge were put to the sword to the number of 2000. 1 

Perdikkas meanwhile reached the city whither he had 
been sent, but on learning that the inhabitants had not 
long before fled from it, he rode away at full gallop on the 
track of the fugitives, while the light troops followed him 
on foot as fast as they could. Some of the fugitives he 
overtook and killed, but such as had been too quick for 
him made their escape to the river marshes. 2 



1 General Cunningham has identi- 
fied this place with Kot-Kamalia, u 
small but ancient town situated on 
an isolated mound on the right or 
northern bank of the Ravi, marking 
the extreme limit of the river's fluctua- 
tions on that side. The small rivulet 
on which Alexander encamped at the 
end of his first march he believes to 
be the lower course of the Ayek river 
which rises in the outer range of hills 
and flows past Syalkot towards 
Sakala, below which the bed is still 
traceable for some distance. It 
appears again, he says, eighteen miles 
to the east of Jhang, and is finally 
lost about two miles to the east of 
Shorkot. Now somewhere between 
these two points Alexander must 
have crossed the Ayek, as the desert 
country which he afterwards traversed 
lies immediately beyond it. If he 
had marched to the south he would 
have arrived at Shorkot, but he would 
not have encountered any desert, as 
his route would have been over the 
Khadar, or low-lying lands in the 
valley of the Chenab. A march of 
forty-six miles in a southerly direction 
would have carried him also right up 



to the bank of the Hydraot£s or 
Ravi, a point which Alexander only 
reached after another night's march. 
As this march lasted from the first 
watch until daylight, it cannot have 
been less than eighteen or twenty 
miles, which agrees exactly with the 
distance of the Ravi opposite Tulamba 
from Kot-Kamalia. The direction of 
Alexander's march must therefore 
have been to the south-east ; first to 
the Ayek river, and thence across the 
hard, clayey, and waterless tract 
called Sandar-bar, that is the bar, a 
desert of the Sandar or Chandra river. 
Thus the position of the rivulet, the 
description of the desolate country, 
and the distance of the city from the 
confluence of the rivers, all agree in 
fixing the site of the fortress assaulted 
by Alexander with Kot-Kamalia. — 
Anc. Geog. of India, pp. 208-210. 

2 The city to which Perdikkas 
was sent in advance of Alexander, 
Cunningham has identified with 
Harapa. " The mention of marshes 
(he says) shows that it must have 
been near the Ravi, and, as Perdikkas 
was sent in advance of Alexander, it 
must also have been beyond Kot- 



I42 THE INVASION OF INDIA 



Chapter VII — Siege and capture of several Mallian 
strongholds 

Alexander having dined and allowed his troops to rest 
till the first watch of the night, began to march forward, 
and having travelled a great distance in the night, arrived 
at the river Hydraotes at daybreak. There he learned 
that many of the Malloi had already crossed to the other 
bank, but he fell upon others who were in the act of 
crossing and slew many of them during the passage. He 
crossed the river along with them, just as he was, and by 
the same ford. He then closely pursued the fugitives who 
had outstripped him in their retreat. Many of these he 
slew and he captured others, but most of them escaped to 
a position of great natural strength which was also strongly 
fortified. 1 But when the infantry came up with him, 
Alexander sent Peithon with his own brigade and two 
squadrons of cavalry against the fugitives. This detach- 
ment attacked the stronghold, captured it at the first 
assault, and made slaves of all who had fled into it, 
except, of course, those' who had fallen in the attack. 

Kamalia, that is to the east or south- narrative leads us to suppose that 

east of it. Now this is exactly the they both lay to the west of that river, 

position of Harapa, which is situated No mention is made of Perdikkas 

sixteen miles to the east-south-east of crossing it, and had the fortress he 

Kot - Kamalia, and on the opposite attacked lain beyond it, he could 

high bank of the Ravi. There are easily have intercepted the inhabi- 

also several marshes in the low ground tants in their flight to the marshes of 

in its immediate vicinity." Cunning- the river. 

ham then gives a description of 1 Cunningham identifies this well- 

Harapa as it now exists. He had fortified position with Tulamba. "A 

encamped at the place on three whole night's march (he says) of eight 

different occasions. It had been or nine hours could not have been 

visited previously and described both less than twenty-five miles, which is 

by Burnes and Masson. Its ruined the exact distance of the Ravi oppo- 

mound forms an irregular square of site Tulamba from Kot - Kamalia." 

half a mile on each side, or two miles It was defended by brick walls and 

in circuit (Anc. Gcog. of India, pp. enormous mounds of earthen ram- 

210,211). It seems to me a serious parts. Tulamba lies on the high 

objection to this identification that road to Multan, to which, as the 

Kol-Kamalia and Harapa (Harup, in capital of the Malloi, Alexander was 

Ainsworth's large map) lie on opposite marching, 
sides of the Ravi, while Arrian's 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 143 

Then Peithdn -and his men, their task fulfilled, returned 
to the camp. 

Alexander himself next led his army against a certain 
city of the Brachmans, 1 because he had learned that many 
of the Malloi had fled thither for refuge. On reaching it 
he led the phalanx in compact ranks against all parts of 
the wall. The inhabitants, on finding the walls under- 
mined, and that they were themselves obliged to retire 
before the storm of missiles, left the walls and fled to the 
citadel, and began to defend themselves from thence. But 
as a few Macedonians had rushed in along with them, 
they rallied, and turning round in a body upon the pur- 
suers, drove some from the citadel and killed twenty-five 
of them in their retreat. Upon this Alexander ordered 
his men to apply the scaling ladders to the citadel on all 
its sides, and to undermine its walls ; and when an under- 
mined tower had fallen and a breach had been made in 
the wall between two towers, thus exposing the citadel to 
attack in that quarter, Alexander was seen to be the first 
man to scale and lay hold of the wall. Upon seeing this, 
the rest of the Macedonians for very shame ascended the 
wall at various points, and quickly had the citadel in their 
hands. Some of the Indians set fire to their houses, in 
which they were caught and killed, but most part fell 

1 The Brachmans, as is well known, Curtius states that Alexander went 

formed a religious caste, and were not completely round the citadel in a 

a distinct race or tribe. Their city boat, and Cunningham thinks this is 

Cunningham has identified with the probable enough, as its ditch could 

old ruined town and fort of Atari, be filled at pleasure with water from 

which is situated twenty miles to the the Ravi. Curtius must, however, 

west-south-west of Tulamba and on be romancing when he says that the 

the high road to Multan, from which three greatest rivers in India except 

it is thirty-four miles distant. The the Ganges (Indus, Hydaspes, and 

remains consist of a strong citadel Akesines) joined their waters to form 

75° feet square and 35 feet a ditch round the castle (v. Atic. 

high. On two of its sides are to be Geog. of India, pp. 228-230). The 

found the remains of the old town. mention of a special city of the 

Of its history there is not even a Brachmans, Lassen observes, shows 

tradition, but the large size of its that but few priests lived in this part 

bricks shows that it must be a place of the country, and that they had 

of considerable antiquity. The name established themselves in particular 

of^the old city is quite unknown, cities to protect themselves against 

Atari being merely that of the adja- those people by whom they were held 

cent village, which is of recent origin. in but small esteem. 



i 4 4 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

fighting. About 5000 in all were killed, and, as they 
were men of spirit, a few only were taken prisoners. 



Chapter VIII. — Alexander defeats the Malloi at the 
Hydradtes 

He remained there one day to give his army rest, and 
next day he moved forward to attack the rest of the 
Malloi. He found their cities abandoned, and ascer- 
tained that the inhabitants had fled into the desert 
There he again allowed the army a day's rest, and next 
day sent Peithon and Demetrios, the cavalry commander, 
back to the river with their own troops, and as many 
battalions of light -armed infantry as the nature of the 
work required. He directed them to march along the 
edge of the river, and if they came upon any of those who 
had fled for refuge to the jungle, of which there were 
numerous patches along the river-bank, to put them all to 
death unless they voluntarily surrendered. The troops 
under these two officers captured many of the fugitives in 
these jungles and killed them. 

He marched himself against the largest city of the 
Malloi, to which he was informed many men from their 
other cities had fled for safety. The Indians, however, 
abandoned this place also when they heard that Alex- 
ander was approaching. They then crossed the Hydra6tes, 
and with a view to obstruct Alexander's passage, remained 
drawn up in order of battle upon the banks, because they 
were very steep. On learning this, he took all the cavalry 
which he had with him, and marched to that part of the 
Hydradtes where he had been told the Malloi were 
posted ; and the infantry were directed to follow after 
him. When he came to the river and descried the enemy 
drawn up on the opposite bank, he plunged at once, just 
as he was after the march, into the ford, with the cavalry 
only. When the enemy saw Alexander now in the 
middle of the stream they withdrew in haste, but yet in 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 145 

good order, from the bank, and Alexander pursued them 
with the cavalry only. But when the Indians perceived 
he had nothing but a party of horse with him, they faced 
round and fought stoutly, being about 50,000 in number. 
Alexander, perceiving that their phalanx was very com- 
pact, and his own infantry not on the ground, rode along 
all round them, and sometimes charged their ranks, but 
not at close quarters. Meanwhile the Agrianians and 
other battalions of light-armed infantry, which consisted 
of picked men, arrived on the field along with the archers, 
while the phalanx of infantry was showing in sight at no 
great distance off. As they were threatened at once with 
so many dangers, the Indians wheeled round, and with 
headlong speed fled to the strongest of all the cities that 
lay near. 1 Alexander killed many of them in the pursuit, 
while those who escaped to the city were shut up within 
its walls. At first, therefore, he surrounded the place with 
his horsemen as soon as they came up from the march. 
But when the infantry arrived he encamped around the 
wall on every side for the remainder of this day — a time 
too short for making an assault, to say nothing of the 
great fatigue his army had undergone, the infantry from 
their long march, and the cavalry by the continuous pur- 
suit, and especially by the passage of the river. 



Chapter IX. — Alexander assails the chief stronghold of the 
Malloi, scales the wall of the citadel, into which he 
leaps down tJiough alone 

On the following day, dividing his army into two 
parts, he himself assaulted the wall at the head of one 
division, while Perdikkas led forward the other. Upon 
this the Indians, without waiting to receive the attack of 
the Macedonians, abandoned the walls and fled for refuge 
to the citadel. Alexander and his troops therefore burst 
open a small gate, and entered the city long before the 

1 See Note Q, The capital of the Malloi. 
L 



146 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

others. But Perdikkas and the troops under his com- 
mand entered it much later, having found it no easy work 
to surmount the walls. The most of them, in fact, had 
neglected to bring scaling ladders, for when they saw 
the wall left without defenders they took it for granted 
that the city had actually been captured. But when it 
became clear that the enemy was still in possession of the 
citadel, and that many of them were drawn up in front of 
it to repel attack, the Macedonians endeavoured to force 
their way into it, some by sapping the walls, and others 
by applying the scaling ladders wherever that was practic- 
able. Alexander, thinking that the Macedonians who 
carried the ladders were loitering too much, snatched one 
from the man who carried it, placed it against the wall, 
and began to ascend, cowering the while under his shield. 
The next to follow was Peukestas, who carried the sacred 
shield which Alexander had taken from the temple of the 
Ilian Athena, and which he used to keep with him and 
have carried before him in all his battles. 1 Next to him 
Leonnatos, an officer of the bodyguard, ascended by the 
same ladder ; and by a different ladder Abreas, one of 
those soldiers who for superior merit drew double pay 2 
and allowances. The king was now near the coping of 
the wall, and resting his shield against it, was pushing 
some of the Indians within the fort, and had cleared the 
parapet by killing others with his sword. The hypaspists, 
now alarmed beyond measure for the king's safety, pushed 
each other in their haste up the same ladder and broke it, 
so that those who were already mounting it fell down and 
made the ascent impracticable for others. 

Alexander, while standing on the wall, was then 
assailed on every side from the adjacent towers, for none 
of the Indians had the courage to come near him. He 

1 Arrian (i. n) relates that Alex- exchange some of the consecrated 

ander, after crossing the Hellespont, arms which had been preserved from 

proceeded to llion, where, after sacri- the time of the Trojan war. 
fiang to the Trojan Athene, he a Called in Greek a dimoirith in 

placed his own armour in the temple Latin a duplicarius. 
of that goddess, and took away in 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 147 

was assailed also by men in the city, who threw darts at 
him from no great distance off, for it so happened that a 
mound of earth had been thrown up in that quarter close 
to the wall. Alexander was, moreover, a conspicuous 
object both by the splendour of his arms 1 and the aston- 
ishing audacity he displayed. He then perceived that if 
he remained where he was, he would be exposed to 
danger without being able to achieve anything noteworthy, 
but if he leaped down into the citadel he might perhaps 
by this very act paralyse the Indians with terror, and if 
he did not, but necessarily incurred danger, he would in 
that case not die ignobly, but after performing great deeds 
worth being remembered by the men of after times. 
Having so resolved, he leaped down from the wall into 
the citadel. Then, supporting himself against the wall, 
he slew with his sword some who assailed him at close 
quartefs, and in particular the governor of the Indians, 
who had rushed upon him too boldly. Against another 
Indian whom he saw approaching, he hurled a stone to 
check his advance, and another he similarly repelled. If 
any one came within nearer reach, he again used his 
sword. The barbarians had then no further wish to 
approach him, but standing around assailed him from all 
quarters with whatever missiles they carried or could lay 
their hands on. 

Chapter X. — Alexander is dangerously wounded within the 

citadel 

At this crisis Peukestas, and Abreas the dimoirite, and 
after them Leonnatos, the only men who succeeded in 

1 Alexander's dress and arms on present from a Cyprian king, and not 

the day of Arbela are thus described to be excelled for lightness or temper ; 

by Plutarch : ' ' He wore a short tunic but his belt, deeply embossed with 

of the Sicilian fashion, girt close massive figures, was the most superb 

round him, over a linen breastplate part of his armour ; it was a gift from 

strongly quilted ; his helmet, sur- the Rhodians, on which old HelikSn 

mounted by the white plume, was of had exerted all his skill. If we add 

polished steel, the work of Theophilos; to these the shield, lance, and light 

the gorget was of the same metal, and greaves, we may form a fair idea of 

set with precious stones ; the sword, his appearance in battle." 
his favourite weapon in battle, was a 



I4 8 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

reaching the top of the wall before the ladder broke, 
leaped down and began fighting in front of the king. 
But there Abreas fell, pierced in the forehead by an 
arrow. Alexander himself was also struck by one which 
pierced through his cuirass into his chest above the pap, 
so that, as Ptolemy says, air gurgled from the wound 
along with the blood. But sorely wounded as he was, he 
continued to defend himself as long as his blood was still 
warm. Since much blood, however, kept gushing out 
with every breath he drew, a dizziness and faintness seized 
him, and he fell where he stood in a collapse upon his 
shield. Peukestas then bestrode him where he fell, hold- 
ing up in front of him the sacred shield which had been 
taken from Ilion, while Leonnatos protected him from 
side attacks. But both these men were severely wounded, 
and Alexander was now on the point of swooning away 
from the loss of blood. As for the Macedonians, they 
were at a loss how to make their way into the citadel, 
because those who had seen Alexander shot at upon the 
wall and then leap down inside it had broken down the 
ladders up which they were rushing in all haste, dreading 
lest their king, in recklessly exposing himself to danger, 
should come by some hurt. In their perplexity they 
devised various plans for ascending the wall. It was 
made of earth, and so some drove pegs into it, and swing- 
ing themselves up by means of these, scrambled with 
difficulty to the top. Others ascended by mounting one 
upon the other. The man who first reached the top 
flung himself headlong from the wall into the city, and 
was followed by the others. There, when they saw the 
king fallen prostrate, they all raised loud lamentations 
and outcries of grief. And now around his fallen form a 
desperate struggle ensued, one Macedonian after another 
holding his shield in front of him. In the meantime, 
some of the soldiers having shattered the bar by which 
the gate in the wall between the towers was secured, made 
their way into the city a few at a time, and others, when 
they saw that a rift was made in the gate, put their 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 149 

shoulders under it, and having then pushed it into the 
space within the wall, opened an entrance into the citadel 
in that quarter. 



Chapter XL — Dangerous nature of Alexander's wound — 
Arrian refutes some current fictions relating to this 
accidetit 

Upon this some began to kill the Indians, and in the 
massacre spared none, neither man, woman, nor child. 
Others bore off the king upon his shield. His condition 
was very low, and they could not yet tell whether he was 
likely to survive. Some writers have asserted that 
Kritodemos, a physician of Kos, an Asklepiad by birth, 1 
extracted the weapon from the wound by making an 
incision where the blow had struck. Other writers, how- 
ever, say that as no surgeon was present at this terrible 
crisis, Perdikkas, an officer of the bodyguard, at Alexander's 
own desire, made an incision into the wound with his sword 
and removed the weapon. Its removal was followed by 
such a copious effusion of blood that Alexander again 
swooned, and the swoon had the effect of staunching the 
flux. Many fictions also have been recorded by historians 
concerning this accident, and Fame, receiving them from 
the original inventors, has preserved them to our own day, 
nor will she cease to transmit the falsehoods to one 
generation after another except they be finally suppressed 
by this history. 

The common account, for example, is that this accident 
befell Alexander among the Oxydrakai, but in fact it 
occurred among the Malloi an independent Indian nation. 
The city belonged to the Malloi, and the men who 
wounded Alexander were Malloi. They had certainly 

1 The descendants of Asklepios others as a caste of priests who prac- 

(Aesculapius) were called by the tised the art of medicine, combined 

patronymic name AsklGpiadai. They with religion. Their principal seats 

were regarded by some as the real were Kos and Knidos. 
descendants of Asklepios, but by 



150 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

agreed to combine with the Oxydrakai and give battle to 
the common enemy, but Alexander had thwarted this 
design by his sudden and rapid march through the water- 
less country, whereby these tribes were prevented from 
giving each other mutual help. To take another instance, 
according to the common account, the last battle fought 
with Darius (that at which he fled, nor paused in his flight 
till he was seized by the soldiers of Bessos and murdered 
at Alexander's approach) took place at Arbela, just as the 
previous battle came off at Issos, and the first cavalry 
action at the Granikos. Now this cavalry action was 
really fought at the Granikos, and the next battle with 
Darius at Issos. But Arbela is distant from the field 
where Darius and Alexander had their last battle 600 
stadia according to those authors who make the distance 
greatest, and 500 stadia according to those who make it 
least. But Ptolemy and Aristoboulos say that the battle 
took place at Gaugamela near the river Boumodos. Gauga- 
mela, however, was not a city, but merely a good-sized village, 
a place of no distinction, and bearing a name which offends 
the ear. This seems to me the reason why Arbela, which 
was a city, has carried off the glory of the great battle. 1 But 
if we must perforce consider that this battle took place near 
Arbela, though fought at so great a distance off, then we 
may as well say that the sea fight at Salamis came oft 
near the Isthmus of Corinth, and the sea-fight at Arte- 
mision in Euboia, near Aigina or Sunium. 

With regard again to those who protected Alexander 
with their shields in his peril, all agree that Peukestas was 
of the number, but with respect to Leonnatos and Abreas 
the dimoirite, they are no longer in harmony. Some say 
that Alexander received a blow on his helmet from a 
bludgeon and fell down in an access of dizziness, and that 

1 Plutarch writes to the same effect : because one of the ancient kings, 

"The great battle with Darius was having escaped his enemies by the 

not fought at Arbela, as most historians swiftness of his camel, placed her 

will have it, but at GaugamSla, which, there, and appointed the revenues of 

in the Persian tongue, is said to certain villages for her maintenance." 

signify the house of the camel, so called — Life of Alexander, c. 31. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



151 



on regaining his feet he was hit by a dart which pierced 
through his breastplate into his chest. But Ptolemy, the 
son of Lagos, says that this wound in his chest was the 
only one he received. I take, however, the following to 
be the greatest error into which the historians of Alexander 
have fallen. Some have written that Ptolemy, the son of 
Lagos, along with Peukestas mounted the ladder together 
with Alexander ; that Ptolemy held his shield over him 
when he was lying on the ground, 
and that he thence received the sur- 
name of Sdter. 1 And yet Ptolemy 
himself has recorded that he was not 
present at this conflict, but was fight- 
ing elsewhere against other bar- 
barians, in command of a different 
division of the army. Let me 
mention these facts in digressing 
from my narrative that the men of 
after times may not regard it as a matter of indifference 
how these great deeds and great sufferings are reported. 




Fig. 10. — Ptolemy 
Soter. 



Chapter XII. — Distress and anxiety of the army at the 
prospect of Alexander's death 

While Alexander remained at this place to be cured of 
his wound, the first news which reached the camp whence 
he had started to attack the Malloi was that he had died 
of his wound. Then there arose at first a loud lamenta- 
tion from the whole army, as the mournful tidings spread 
from man to man. But when their lamentation was ended, 
they gave way to despondency and anxious doubts about 
the appointment of a commander to the army, for among 



1 Kleitarchos, who accompanied 
Alexander to Asia, and wrote a 
history of the expedition, and Tima- 
genes, an historian in the reign of 
Augustus, gave currency to this fiction, 
which Curtius is at one with Arrian 



in rejecting. Ptolemy received his 
title of Soter (saviour) from the 
Rhodians, whom he had relieved 
from the attacks of Demetrios Polior- 
ketes {v. Pausanias, I. viii. 6). 



i 5 2 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

the officers many could advance claims to that dignity 
which both to Alexander and the Macedonians seemed of 
equal weight. They were also in fear and doubt how 
they could be conducted home in safety, surrounded as 
they were on all hands by warlike nations, some not yet 
reduced, but likely to fight resolutely for their freedom, 
while others would to a certainty revolt when relieved from 
their fear of Alexander. They seemed besides to be just 
then among impassable rivers, while the whole outlook 
presented nothing but inextricable difficulties when they 
wanted their king. But on receiving word that he was 
still alive, they could hardly think it true, or persuade 
themselves that he was likely to recover. Even when a 
letter came from the king himself intimating that he would 
soon come down to the camp, most of them from the 
excess of fear which possessed them distrusted the news, 
for they fancied that the letter was a forgery concocted by 
his body-guards and generals. 



Chapter XIII. — Joy oj the army on seeing Alexander after 
his recovery — His officers rebuke him for his rashness 

On coming to know this, Alexander, anxious to prevent 
any commotions arising in the army, as soon as he could 
bear the fatigue, had himself conveyed to the banks of the 
river Hydraotes, and embarking there, he sailed down the 
river to reach the camp, at the junction of the Hydra6t& 
and the Akesines, where Hephaisti6n commanded the 
land forces and Nearchos the fleet. When the vessel 
which carried the king was now approaching the camp, he 
ordered the awning to be removed from the poop that he 
might be visible to all. They were, however, even yet 
incredulous, supposing that the freight of the vessel was 
Alexander's dead body, until he neared the bank, when he 
raised his arm and stretched out his hand to the multitude. 
Then the men raised a loud cheer, and lifted up their 
hands, some towards heaven and some towards Alexander 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 153 

himself. Tears even started involuntarily to the eyes of 
not a few at the unexpected sight. Some of the hypaspists 
brought him a litter where he was carried ashore from the 
vessel, but he called for his horse. When he was seen 
once more on horseback, the whole army greeted him with 
loud acclamations, which filled with their echoes the shores 
and all the surrounding hills and dales. On approaching 
his tent he dismounted that he might be seen walking. 
Then the soldiers crowded round him, touching some his 
hands, others his knees, and others nothing but his raiment. 
Some, satisfied with nothing more than a near view, went 
away with expressions of admiration. Others again 
covered him with garlands, and others with the flowers of 
the clime and the season. 

Nearchos says that he was offended with certain of his 
friends who reproached him for exposing himself to danger 
when leading the army, for this, they said, was not the 
duty of a commander, but of a common soldier, and it 
seems to me that Alexander resented these remarks 
because he felt their truth, and knew he had laid himself 
open to censure. Owing, however, to his prowess in 
fighting and his love of glory, he, like other men who are 
swayed by some predominant pleasure, yielded to tempta- 
tion, lacking sufficient force of will to hold aloof from 
dangers. Nearchos also says that a certain elderly Boi6tian 
(whose name he does not give) observing that Alexander 
resented the censures of his friends, and was giving them 
sour looks, approached him, and in the Boidtian tongue 
thus addressed him : " O Alexander, it is for heroes to do 
great deeds/' and then he subjoined an Iambic verse, the 
purport of which was that he who did any great deed was 
bound also to suffer. 1 The man, it is said, not only found 
favour with Alexander, but was admitted afterwards to 
closer intimacy. 

1 Thirlwall has noted that this line Aeschylus, SpAaavn ydp ti ko\ iratieiv 
is found in Stobaeus. It is a fragment 6<pd\eTtu. 
from one of the lost tragedies of 



i 5 4 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Chapter XIV. — Submission of the Malloi, Oxydrakai, am 
others — Voyage down the Hydraotes and Akesinis to 
the Indus 

At this time envoys came to Alexander from the 
Malloi who still survived, tendering the submission of the 
nation ; and from the Oxydrakai came the leading men of 
their cities and their provincial governors, besides 150 of 
their most eminent men, entrusted with full powers to con- 
clude a treaty. They brought with them those presents 
which the Indians consider the choicest, and, like the 
Malloi, tendered the submission of their nation. Their 
error in so long delaying to send an embassy was, they 
said, pardonable, for they were attached more than others 
to freedom and autonomy, and their freedom they had 
preserved intact from the time Dionysos came to India 
until Alexander's arrival. Since, however, Alexander was 
also, according to current report, of the race of the gods, 
they were willing, if he so pleased, to receive whatever 
satrap Alexander might appoint, pay the tribute he chose 
to impose, and give as many hostages as he required. 
Upon this he asked for a 1000 men, the flower of the 
nation, to be retained, if he thought good, as hostages, 
but, if not, to be employed as auxiliaries until he had 
finished the war against the other Indians. They selected 
accordingly 1000 men, their best and tallest, and sent 
them to him, together with 500 chariots and their 
charioteers, though these were not demanded. Alexander 
appointed Philippos as satrap over that nation and over 
the Malloi who still survived. The hostages he sent back, 
but he kept the chariots. 

When these arrangements had been completed, and 
many vessels had been built in the interval while his 
wound was healing, he put on board the fleet 1700 of the 
cavalry companions, the same number of light-armed troops 
as before, and about 1 0,000 infantry, and sailed a short 
distance down the river Hydradtes. But when the 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 155 

Hydra6t£s fell into the Akesines he continued the voyage 
down the latter river (which in preference to the Hydra6tes 
gives its name to the united stream) until he reached the 
junction of the Akesines with the Indus. For these four 
vast rivers which are all navigable yield up their waters to 
the river Indus, but not each of them under its own special 
name. For the Hydaspes discharges into the Akesines, 
and the single stream then forms what is called the 
Akesines. But this Akesines again unites with the 
Hydraotis, and after absorbing this river is still the 
Akesines. The Akesines after this receives the Hyphasis, 1 
and still keeping its own name falls into the Indus, but 
after the junction it resigns its name to that river. Hence 
I am ready to believe that the Indus from this point to 
where it bifurcates to form the Delta expands to a breadth 
of 100 stadia or even more in places where it spreads out 
more like a lake than a river. 



Chapter X V. — Appointment of Satraps — Voyage down 
the Indus to the dominions of Mousikanos, who tenders 
his submission 

There at the confluence of the Akesines and Indus 
he waited until Perdikkas arrived with his forces. This 
general in the course of his march had subjugated the 
Abastanoi, 2 one of the independent tribes. Meanwhile 

1 The Hyphasis is here probably yards only above the confluence, 

the Satlej, though the application of From the present confluence to the 

the name so far down as is here indi- sea the distance is 490 miles, 
cated is contrary to Sanskrit usage. 2 The Abastanoi are more correctly 

Several arms of the Hyphasis may designated by Diodoros (xvii. 102) 

have anciently existed which went to the Sambastai, under which form of 

join the Hydraotes or perhaps the the name the Ambashtha, who are 

lower Akesines. Megasthenes was mentioned as a people of the Panjab 

the first who made the existence of in the Mahdbhdrata and elsewhere in 

the Satlej known. Pliny calls it the Sanskrit literature, can be recognised. 

Hesydrus, and Ptolemy the Zaradros. It is evident from the text that they 

The united stream which joins the were settled on the lower Akesines. 

Indus, called the Panjnad, has before They appear to be the people called 

the confluence a width of 1076 yards. by Curtius the Sabarcae, and by 

The Indus after the confluence is Orosius Sabagrae. 
augmented to 2000 yards from 600 



1 56 



THE INVASION OF INDIA 



there arrived at the camp other thirty-oared galleys and 
transport vessels which had been built for him among the 
Xathroi, 1 another independent tribe of Indians whose 
submission he had received. From the Ossadioi 2 also, 
another independent tribe, came envoys offering the sub- 
mission of their nation. Alexander then fixed the con- 
fluence of the Akesin£s and Indus as the boundary of the 
satrapy of Philippos, and left with him all the Thracians 
and as many foot- soldiers as seemed sufficient for the 
defence of his province. Then he ordered a city to be 
founded there at the very confluence of the rivers, 3 hoping 
it would become a great city and make a name for itself 
in the world. He ordered also the construction of dock- 
yards. At this time the Baktrian Oxyartes, the father 
of Alexander's wife Roxana, arrived, and on him he be- 
stowed the satrapy of the Parapamisadai after dismissing 



1 The Xathroi are the Kshatri of 
Sanskrit mentioned in the Laws of 
Manu as an impure tribe, being of 
mixed origin. In Williams's Sanskrit 
Dictionary a Ksh&tri is defined as " a 
man of the second {i.e. military) caste 
(by a woman of another caste?)." 

2 V. de Saint-Martin suggests that 
in the Ossadioi we have the Vas&ti or 
Basati of the Mah&bh&rata, a people 
whom Hematchandra in his Geo- 
graphical Dictionary places between 
the Hydaspes and the Indus, on the 
plateau of which the Salt Mountains 
form the southern escarpment. If the 
Vasati were really so placed, it can 
scarcely be supposed that they would 
have sent offers of submission to 
Alexander, who had already passed 
through their part of the country, and 
was now marching homeward, leaving 
them far in his rear. Cunningham 
prefers to identify them with the 
Yaudheya or Ajudhiya, now the 

Johiyas, who are settled as for- 
merly along the banks of the lower 
Satlej. Assodioi or Ossadioi seems a 
pretty close transcription of Ajudhiya. 

3 The name of this city is not given 
by any of the historians, but in all 
probability it bore the name of its 
founder. Its site has generally been 
referred to the neighbourhood of 



Mithankot, a town situated on the 
western bank of the Indus a little 
below the junction of that river with 
the united streams of the Panjab. V. 
de Saint -Martin identifies it more 
precisely with Chuchpur or Chuchur, 
an ancient fort standing on the eastern 
bank of the Indus right opposite Mifh- 
Snk&t. This fort bore formerly the 
names of Askalanda, Askelend, and 
Sikander, which are but variant forms 
of Alexandreia. The great confluence, 
however, did not anciently take place 
at Mithankot, but at Uchh, an old city 
lying forty miles to the north-east of 
the confluence at MithankSt. The 
place is called by Rashed-ud-din 
Asia/and - usah, which, as Cunning- 
ham points out, would be an easy 
corruption of Alexandria Uchha or 
Ussa, as the Greeks must have written 
it. The word uchha means "high" 
both in Sanskrit and in Hindi, and 
Uchh seems to owe its name to the 
fact that it stands on a mound. 
"Uchh is chiefly distinguished (says 
Masson) by the ruins of the former 
towns, which are very extensive, and 
attest the pristine prosperity of the 
locality." v. V. de Saint - Martin, 
Etude, pp. 124, 125; Cunningham's 
Anc, Geog. of India, pp. 242-245. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



157 



the previous satrap Tyriaspes, who had been reported 
guilty of irregularities in the exercise of his authority. 

Then he transported Krateros, with the bulk of the 
army and the elephants, to the left side of the river 
Indus, because the route along that bank of the river 
seemed easier for an army heavily accoutred, and because 
the tribes inhabiting those parts were not quite friendly. 
He sailed himself down to the capital of the S6gdoi, where 
he fortified another city, constructed other dockyards, and 
repaired his damaged vessels. He then appointed Oxy- 
artes and Peithon satraps of the country which extended 
from the confluence of the Indus and Akesines to the sea. 
together with the whole sea-board of India. 1 

Krateros he again despatched with the army [through 
the country of the Arachotians and Drangians] ; while he 
sailed down himself to the realm of Mousikanos, 2 which 
was reported to be the most opulent in India, because 
that sovereign had neither come to surrender himself and 
his country, nor sent envoys to seek his friendship. He 
had not even sent presents to show the respect due to a 



1 v. Note R, Alexander in Sindh. 

2 In Strabo (XV. i. ) we find several 
references to the co.untry of Mousi- 
kanos. These were based on infor- 
mation supplied by Onesikritos, who 
expatiates in praise of its fertility, on 
the virtues of its people, and the good- 
ness of the laws and government 
under which they lived. It seems 
now generally agreed that Alor, which 
was anciently and for many ages the 
metropolis of the rich and powerful 
kingdom of Upper Sindh, was the 
capital of Mousikanos. Its ruins were 
visited by M'Murdo and Lieutenant 
Wood, and afterwards by General 
Cunningham, who thus describes 
their site: "The ruins of Alor are 
situated to the south of a gap in the 
low range of sandstone hills which 
stretches from Bhakar towards the 
south for about twenty miles until it 
is lost in a broad belt of sandhills 
which bound the Nara, or old bed of 
the Indus, on the west. Through 
this gap a branch of the Indus once 



flowed, which protected the city on 
the north-west. To the north-east it 
was covered by a second branch of 
the river, which flowed nearly at right 
angles to the other at a distance of 
three miles. . . In a.d. 680 the 
latter was probably the main stream 
of the Indus, which had gradually 
been working to the westward from 
its original bed in the old Nara." 
With regard to the name of the king 
it appears to be a territorial title, 
since Curtius designates the people 
Musicani. Lassen (Ind. Alt. ii. 176) 
takes this to represent the Sanskrit 
Mushika (which means a mouse or a 
thief), and points out that a part of 
the Malabar coast was also called the 
Mushika kingdom. Saint - Martin 
thinks that the Mushika still exist in 
the great tribe of the Moghsis, which 
forms the most numerous part of the 
population of Kach Gand&ra, a region 
bordering on the territories of the 
ancient Musikani (Etude, p. 162). 



158 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

mighty king, nor had he asked any favour from Alexander. 
He therefore made the voyage down the river so rapidly 
that he reached the frontiers of the country of Mousikanos 
before that prince had even heard that Alexander had 
started to attack him. Mousikanos, dismayed by his 
sudden arrival, hastened to meet him, taking the choicest 
presents India could offer and all his elephants with him. 
He offered to surrender both his nation and himself, and 
acknowledged his error, which was the most effective way 
with Alexander to obtain from him whatever one wanted. 
Alexander therefore granted Mousikanos a full pardon on 
account of his submission and penitence, expressed much 
admiration of his capital and his realm, and confirmed 
him in his sovereignty. Krateros was then ordered to 
fortify the citadel which protected the capital, and this 
work was executed while Alexander was still on the spot. 
A garrison was placed in the fortress, which he thought 
suitable for keeping the surrounding tribes in subjection. 



Chapter XVI. — Campaign against Oxykanos and Sambos 

Then he took the archers and the Agrianians and the 
cavalry which was sailing with him, and marched against 
the governor of a district in that part of the country whose 
name was Oxykanos, because he neither came himself 
nor sent envoys to offer the surrender of himself and his 
country. 1 At the first assault he took by storm the two 

1 Curtius calls the subjects of Oxy- the Indus, for Alexander left that 
kanos the Praesti, a name which would river to attack them. Cunningham 
indicate that they inhabited a level places them to the west of the Indus 
country, since the Sanskrit word of in the level country around Larkhana, 
which their name is a transcript— which, though now close to the Indus, 
prastha— denotes a tableland or a level was in Alexander's time about forty 
expanse. The name, Saint - Martin miles distant from it. Their capital he 
thinks, is in Justin altered to Prae- identifies with Mahorta, a place about 
statu ; but Justin, it appears to me, ten miles north-west from Larkhana, 
means the Praisioi thereby. Oxykanos where there are the remains of an 
is called both by Strabo and Diod6ros ancient fortress on a huge mound, 
Port, kanos, representing perhaps the whence perhaps its name Miha- 
Sanskrit Pdrtha, "a prince." It is unldha, "very high." Lassen, on 
riot easy to determine where his the other hand, followed by Saint- 
dominions lay. They were not on Martin, places the country of Oxy- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 159 

largest cities under the rule of Oxykanos, in the second 
of which that chief himself was taken prisoner. The 
booty he gave to the army, but the elephants he led away 
and reserved for himself. The other cities in the same 
country surrendered without attempting resistance wher- 
ever he advanced ; so much were the minds of all the 
Indians paralysed with abject terror by Alexander and 
the success of his arms. 

He then advanced against Sambos, whom he had 
appointed satrap of the Indian mountaineers, and who 
was reported to have fled on hearing that Mousikanos 
had been pardoned by Alexander, and was ruling his own 
land, for he and Mousikanos were on hostile terms. But 
when Alexander approached the city called Sindimana, 1 
which formed the metropolis of the country of Sambos, 
the gates were thrown open on his arrival, and the mem- 
bers of the household of Sambos with his treasure (of 
which they had reckoned up the amount) and his elephants 
went forth to meet him. Sambos, these men informed 
him, had fled, not from hostility to Alexander, but from 
fears to which the pardon of Mousikanos had given rise. 
He captured besides another city, 2 which had at this time 
revolted, and he put to death all those Brachmans who 
had instigated the revolt. These Brachmans are the 
philosophers of the Indians, and of their philosophy, if so 
it may be called, I shall give an account in my work 
which describes India. 

Chapter XVII. — Mousikanos is captured by PeithSn and 
executed — Alexander reaches Patala at the apex of the 
Indus Delta 

Meantime he received word that Mousikanos had 
revolted. Thereupon he despatched the satrap Peithon, 

kanos to the east of the river, and Martin, Etude, p. 165 ; Cunningham, 

therefore in the vast Mesopotamia Anc. Geog. of India, pp. 259-262). 
(the Prasiane of Pliny) comprised 1 See note S, Sindimana. 

between the old or eastern arm of 2 See Note T, City of the Brach- 

the Indus and the present channel mans, Harmatelia ; also Note HA, 

{v. Lassen, Ind. Alt. ii. 177 ; Saint- Indian Philosophers. 



160 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

the son of Agenor, against him with an adequate force, 
while he marched himself against the cities which had 
been placed under the rule of Mousikanos. Some of 
these he razed to the ground after reducing the inhabit- 
ants to slavery ; into others he introduced garrisons and 
fortified their citadels. When these operations were 
finished he returned to the camp and the fleet — whither 
Mousikanos was conducted, who had been taken prisoner 
by Peithon. Alexander ordered the rebel to be taken 
to his own country and hanged there, together with all 
those Brachmans who had instigated him to revolt Then 
there came to him the ruler of the country of the Patalians, 
which, as I have stated, consists of the Delta formed by 
the river Indus, and is larger than the Egyptian Delta. 
This chief surrendered to him the whole of his land, and 
entrusted both himself and all his possessions to him. 
Alexander sent him back to his government with orders 
to make all due preparations for the reception of his 
expedition. He then sent away Krateros into Karmania 
by the route through the Arachdtians and the Sarangians, 1 
leading the brigades of Attalos, Meleager, and Antigenes, 
along with some of the archers and such of the com- 

1 In the 15th chapter of this book India), to which there was access 

Arrian states that Alexander had sent from India through the Bolan Pass. 

Krateros away by this route after he Before rejoining Alexander he must 

had left the Sogdian capital (near have encountered formidable diffi- 

Bhakar). From this we may infer culties in traversing the great desert 

that Krateros, soon after he set out of Karman, which occupies the 

on his homeward march, had been northern part of Karmania, and ex- 

temporarily recalled by Alexander, tends from thence to the confines of 

who may have found the resistance to Yezd, Khorasin, and Sei'stan. "This 

his arms more formidable than he had desert (says Bunbury) is a vast track 

anticipated. Strabo states in one of the most unmitigated barrenness, 

place (XV. ii. 5) that Krateros set out and a considerable portion of this 

on his march from the Hydaspes and interposed between the fertile districts 

proceeded through the country of the of Murmansheer in Northern Car- 

Arachotoi and the Drangai into Kar- mania, and the Lake Zarrah in Sei'stan 

mania, and in another (XV. ii. n) must of necessity have been traversed 

that he traversed Choarene and en- bv Craterus with his army. An Afghan 

tered Karmania simultaneously with army which invaded Persia in 1719 

Alexander. Now the former of these suffered the most dreadful hardships 

routes would have been so needlessly in this waste " (v. his Hist, of A»c. 

circuitous that it cannot be supposed Gcos;. p. 522, also Droysen's Geschichtt 

it was that which Krateros selected. AkxauJas, p. 454, and Lassen,/*/. 

He no doubt marched through Choa- Alt. ii. 180). 
rene (the district of Ariana nearest 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 161 

panions and other Macedonians as he was sending home 
to Macedonia as unfit for further service. He also sent 
away the elephants with him. The rest of the army, 
except that portion which with himself was sailing down 
to the sea, was placed under the command of Hephaistidn. 
Peithdn, who led the horse-lancers and the Agrianians, he 
transported to the opposite bank so that he might not be 
on that side of the river by which Hephaisti6n was to 
advance. Peithon was instructed to put colonists into 
the cities which had just been fortified, to suppress any 
insurrection which the Indians might attempt, to introduce 
settled order among them, and then to join him at Patala. 
On the third day after Alexander had started on the 
voyage, he was informed that the Prince of Patala was 
fleeing from that city, taking with him most of its in- 
habitants, and leaving the country deserted. He accord- 
ingly accelerated his voyage down the river, and on 
reaching Patala found that both the city itself and the 
cultivated lands which lay around it had been deserted 
by the inhabitants. But he despatched his lightest troops 
in pursuit of the fugitives, and when some of these had 
been captured sent them on to their countrymen to bid 
them take courage and return, for they were free to in- 
habit their city and cultivate their lands as formerly ; and 
so most of them did return. 1 

1 According to Aristoboulos, as at Patalene about the rising of the 

cited by Strabo (XV. i. 17), the dog-star (towards the end of summer 

voyage down stream from Nikaia on B.C. 325). The passage down the 

the Hydaspes to Patala occupied ten river lasted ten months. " According 

months. " The Greeks (he says) to Plutarch, Alexander spent seven 

remained at the Hydaspes while the months in falling down the rivers to 

ships were constructing, and began the ocean. Sir A. Burnes ascended 

their voyage not many days before the Indus up to Lahore in sixty days, 

the setting of the Pleiades (late in the a distance of about 1000 miles. He 

autumn of B.C. 326), and were occu- estimated that a boat could drop down 

pied during the whole autumn, winter, from Lahore to the sea in fifteen days, 

and the ensuing spring and summer and from Multan in nine days, 
in sailing down the river, and arrived 



M 



162 THE INVASION OF INDIA 



Chapter X VIII. — Alexander orders wells to be dug in the 
district round Patala, and sails down the western arm 
of the Indus 

After directing Hephaistidn to construct a citadel in 
Patala, he sent out men into the adjacent country, which 
was waterless, to dig wells l and make it habitable. Some 
of the barbarians in the neighbourhood attacked them, 
and, as they fell upon them quite unexpectedly, killed 
several of their number, but as the assailants lost many 
on their own side, they fled to the desert. The men were 
thus able to complete the work they were sent to execute, 
especially as Alexander, on learning that they had been 
attacked by the barbarians, had sent additional troops to 
take part in the work. 

Near Patala the stream of the Indus is divided into 
two large rivers, 2 both of which retain the name of the 
Indus till they enter the sea. Here Alexander set about 
the construction of a roadstead and dock, and when some 
satisfactory progress had been made with these undertak- 
ings, he resolved to sail down to the mouth of the right 
arm of the river. 3 To Leonnatos he gave the command 
of about iooo cavalry and 8000 heavy and light infantry, 
and despatched him to move down the island of Patala, 
holding along the shore in a line with the squadron of 
ships. He set out himself on a voyage down the right 
arm of the river, taking with him the fastest vessels with 
one and a half bank of oars, all the thirty-oared galleys, 
and several of the smaller craft. As the Indians of that 
region had fled, he had no pilot to direct his course, and 
this made the navigation all the more difficult. Then on 

1 In the 41st chapter of the Peri- - 7: Note U, Patala. 

pllis of the Erythraian Sea it is said s This was the northern channel 

that in the regions adjoining the Indus of the Ghara, the waters of which, 

mouths " there are preserved even to some centuries after Alexander, found 

this very day memorials of the e.\- another channel more to the south, 

pedition of Alexander, old temples, in the southern Ghara which joins the 

foundations of camps, and large main stream below Lari Bandar. 
wells. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 163 

the second day after he had started a storm arose, and 
the gale blowing against the current made deep furrows 
in the river, and battered the hulls of the vessels so 
violently that most of his ships were damaged, while some 
of the thirty-oared galleys were completely wrecked, though 
the sailors managed to run them on shore before they 
went all to pieces in the water. Other vessels were there- 
fore constructed ; and Alexander, having despatched the 
quickest of the light-armed troops some distance into the 
interior, captured some Indians, whom he employed in 
piloting his fleet for the rest of the voyage. But when 
they found themselves where the river expands to the 
vast breadth of 200 stadia the wind blew strong from 
the outer sea, and the oars could scarcely be raised in the 
swell. They therefore again drew toward the shore for 
refuge, and the fleet was steered by the pilots into the 
mouth of a canal. 



Chapter XIX. — The fleet is damaged by the tide, halts at an 
island in the Indus, and thence reaches the open sea 

While the fleet was at anchor here, a vicissitude to 
which the Great Sea is subject occurred, for the tide ebbed, 
and their ships were left on dry ground. This pheno- 
menon, of which Alexander and his followers had no 
.previous experience, caused them no little alarm, and 
greater still was their dismay, when in due course of time 
:he tide advanced, and the hulls of the vessels were 
/loated aloft. Those vessels which it found settled in 
':he soft mud were uplifted without damage, and floated 
igain, nothing the worse for the strain ; but as for those 
Vessels which had been left on a drier part of the beach, 
jnd were not firmly embedded, some on the advance 
;>f a massive wave fell foul of each other, while others 
jere dashed upon the strand and shattered in pieces. 1 

' 1 Caesar's fleet, it is well known, Indus are not felt more than sixty 
>iffered a similar disaster on the miles from the sea, whence Cunning- 
iiores of Britain. The tides in the ham concludes that Alexander must 



1 64 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Alexander caused these vessels to be repaired as well as 
circumstances allowed, and despatched men in advance 
down the river in two boats to explore an island at 
which the natives informed him he must anchor on his way 
to the sea. They said that the name of the island was 
Killouta. 1 When he learned that the island had harbours, 
was of great extent, and yielded water, he ordered the 
rest of the fleet to make its way thither, but he himself 
with the fastest sailing ships advanced beyond the island 
to see the mouth of the river, and ascertain whether it 
offered a safe and easy passage out into the open main. 
When they had proceeded about 200 stadia beyond the 
island, they descried another which lay out in the sea. 
Then they returned to the island in the river, and 
Alexander, having anchored his ships near its extremity, 
offered sacrifice to those gods to whom, he said, Ammfin 
had enjoined him to sacrifice. On the following day he 
sailed down to the other island which la}' in the ocean, 
and approaching close to it also, offered other sacrifices to 
other gods and in another manner. These sacrifices, like 
the others, he offered under sanction of an oracle given 
by Amnion. He then advanced beyond the mouths of 
the river Indus, and sailed out into the great main to 
discover, as he declared, whether any land lay anywhere 
near in the sea, but, in my opinion, chiefly that it might 
be said that he had navigated the great outer sea of 
India. He then sacrificed bulls to the god P6seid6n, 
which he threw into the sea ; and following up the 
sacrifice with a libation, he threw the goblet and 
bowls of gold into the bosom of the deep as thanks- 
offerings, beseeching the god to conduct in safety the 

then have reached as far as Bambhra others Tsiltoukis. It was from this 

on the Ghara, which is about fifty island Nearchos started on his manor- 

miles by water from the sea. The able voyage early in October, before 

breaking up of the monsoon, which the monsoon had subsided. On his 

occurs in October, is attended with reaching the port now called Karachi, 

high wind'., intervals of calm, and the great emporium of the trade of the 

violent hurricanes. Indus, he remained therefor twenty- 

1 Plutarch says that Alexander four days, and renewed the voyage as 

called this island Skillouslis, but soon as the weather permitted. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 165 

naval expedition which he intended to despatch under 
Nearchos to the Persian Gulf and the mouths of the 
Euphrates and Tigris. 



Chapter XX. — Alexander after returning to Patala sails 
down the eastern arm of the Indus 

On his return to Patala, he found the citadel fortified, 

and Peithon arrived with his troops after completing the 

objects of his expedition. Hephaistidn was then ordered 

to prepare what was requisite for the fortification of the 

'" harbour, and the construction of a dockyard, for here at 

: the city of Patala, which stands where the river Indus 

: bifurcates, he meant to leave behind him a very consider- 

- able naval squadron. 

He himself sailed down again to the Great Sea by the 
: other mouth of the Indus, 1 to ascertain by which of the 
- mouths it was easier to reach the ocean. The mouths of 
: - the river Indus are about 1 800 stadia distant from each 
'■-'- other. 2 When he was approaching the mouth, he came 

- to a large lake formed by the river in widening out, 
::- unless, indeed, this watery expanse be due to rivers which 
::-" discharge their streams into it from the surrounding 
'-."- districts, and give it the appearance of a gulf of the sea ; 3 

1 The eastern branch of the Indus distance was 1000 stadia. The truth 

is that now called the Phuleli. It is here pretty accurately hit. 

■.."- separates from the main channel at 3 " This great lake (says Saint- 

Muttari, twelve miles above Haidara- Martin) might have been the western 

- bad, and enters the sea by the Kori extremity of the Ran of Kachh, a 
■j estuary, named by Ptolemy the Loni- vast depression which abuts on the 
_ ' bari mouth. Its bed is now almost point where the estuary begins, and 
"■■■ - dry except at the time of the inunda- which for some months of the year 

tions, when it assumes the appear- (from July to October) is inundated 

ance of a great river. At the lower by the waters of several rivers. By 

> part of its course it is known as the a singular coincidence the terrible 

; - Guni. On its east side it receives the earthquake of 1819 has formed a large 

j'- branch of the Indus, which in ancient hollow and created a spacious lake 

; > times passed Aror, and is now called traversed by the Kori, and occupying 

:•'. '-' the Purana darya or Old river. probably the same site as the lake 

;' 2 This exaggerated estimate Arrian mentioned by Arrian. Brahmanic 

; p has taken from the Journal of Near- tradition, moreover, preserves the 

• S'chos. Aristoboulos said that the memory of a lake formerly existing 



166 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

for salt-water fish were now seen in it of larger size 
than the fish in our sea. Having anchored in the lake, 
at a place selected by the pilots, he left there most of 
the soldiers under the command of Leonnatos and all 
the boats, while he himself with the thirty-oared galleys, 
and the vessels with one and a half bank of oars passed 
beyond the mouth of the Indus, and sailing out into the 
sea by this other route, satisfied himself that the mouth 
of the Indus on this side was easier to navigate than the 
other. He then anchored his fleet near the beach, and 
taking with him some of the cavalry, proceeded along the 
shore a three days' journey, examining what sort of a 
country it was for a coasting voyage, and ordering wells 
to be sunk for supplying sea-farers with water. He then 
returned to the fleet, and sailed back to Patala. He sent, 
however, a part of the army to complete the work 
of digging wells along the shore, with instructions to 
return to Patala on their completing this service. Sailing 
down again to the lake, he constructed there another 
harbour and other docks, and, having left a garrison in 
the place, he collected sufficient food to supply the army 
for four months, and made all other necessary prepara- 
tions for the voyage along the coast. 



Chapter XXL — Alexander crosses the river Arabios and 
invades the Orcitai 

The season of the year was impracticable for naviga- 
tion from the prevalence of the Etesian winds, which 
do not blow there as with us from the north, but come 
as a south wind from the Great Ocean. It was ascertained 
that from the beginning of winter, that is from the 

near the Kort, not far from its em- ... A local tradition picked up by 

bouchure. In the Bhagavata Pimina M'Murdo refers to the disappear- 

translated by Bournouf, we read that ance of this lake of old times, and 

' in the west at the confluence of the explains the event by a conflagration 

Sindhu and the ocean is the vast tank of the country " (v. Etude, pp. I? 8 . 

of Nfuayana Saras, which is frequented 179). 
by the Recluses and the Siddhas.' 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 167 

setting of the Pleiades, 1 till the winter solstice, the 
weather was suitable for making voyages, because the 
mild breezes which then blow steadily seaward from the 
land, which is drenched by this time with heavy rains, 
favour coasting voyages, whether made by oar or by 
sail. Nearchos, who had been appointed to the command 
of the fleet, was waiting for the season for coasting, but 
Alexander set out from Patala, and advanced with the 
whole of his army to the river Arabios. 2 He then took 
half of the hypaspists and archers, the infantry brigades 
called foot companions, the corps of companion cavalry, 
and a squadron from each division of the other cavalry, 
and all the horse archers, and turned towards the sea, 
which lay on the left, not only to dig as many wells as 
possible for the use of the expedition while coasting 
those shores, but also to fall suddenly upon the Oreitai 
(an Indian tribe in those parts which had long been 
independent), because they had rendered no friendly 
service either to himself or the army. The command of 
the troops which he did not take with him was entrusted 
to Hephaistion. There was settled near the river Arabios 
another 3 independent tribe called the Arabitai, and, as 

1 In Italy the Pleiades set in the in nine days from Patala, and their 
beginning of November. The south- western boundary formed by the 
west monsoon prevails from April to Arabius in five days more. The dis- 
October. It sets in on the Sindh tance from Haidarabad to Karachi is 
coast with strong west-south-westerly 1 14 miles, and from Karachi to Son- 
winds, which cause a heavy swell on miyani fifty miles. The average of 
the sea. The north-east monsoon, a day's march' was therefore about 
which is favourable for navigation, twelve miles, the same as now in 
begins in the Arabian Sea about the these parts. 

middle of October. 3 The Arabitai are called in the 

2 The name of this river has various Indika, Arabics ; in Strabo, Arbies ; 
forms, Arabis, Arbis, Artabis, and in Diodoros, Ambritai; in Marcian 
Artabius. It is now called the Purali the geographer, Arbitoi; and in Dion, 
and is the river which, rising in the Perieg. Aribes. Their territories ex- 
mountain range called by Ptolemy tended from the western mouth of the 
the Baitian, flows through the present Indus to the river Purali. This people 
district of Las into the Bay of Sonmi- and their neighbours, the Orttai, 
yani. It gave its name to the Arabioi, Cunningham would include within 
whose territory it divided from that the geographical limits of India, 
of the Oritai, who were farther west. although they have always been be- 
Curtius states that Alexander reached yond its political boundaries during 
the eastern boundary of the Arabioi the historical period. They were 
(which may be placed about Karachi) tributary to Darius Hystaspes, and 



168 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

these neither thought themselves a match for Alex- 
ander, nor yet wished to submit to him, they fled into 
the desert when they learned that he was marching 
against them. But Alexander having crossed the Arabios, 
which was neither broad nor deep, traversed the most of 
the desert, and found himself by daybreak near the 
inhabited country. Then leaving orders with the infantry 
to follow him in regular line, he set forward with the 
cavalry, which he divided into squadrons, to be spread 
over a wide extent of the plain, and it was thus he 
marched into the country of the Oreitai. 1 All who turned 
to offer resistance were cut down by the cavalry, but 
many were taken prisoners. He then encamped near a 
small sheet of water, and on being joined by the troops 
under Hephaistion still continued his progress, and arrived 
at the village called Rambakia, 2 which was the largest in 
the dominions of the Oreitai. He was pleased with the 
situation, and thought that if he colonised it, it would 
become a great and prosperous city. He therefore 
left Hephaisti6n behind him to carry this scheme into 
effect. 

were still subject to the Persians poisoned arrows Ptolemy was all but 

when the Chinese pilgrim Hwen mortally wounded. 
Thsiang visited their country in the - This name is probably a trail- 

seventh century of our aera. scription of the Indian 



In the country of the Oreitai is a which designated the place where 
river called the Aghor, from which, it pilgrims assemble before starting for 
has been supposed, the people take the Aghor Valley, in which the prin- 
their name, as thus : Aghoritai, cipal sacred places are connected 
Aoritai, Oritai, or Horatae, as they with the history of Rama, the great 
are called by Curtius. They are the hero of the Rarnayana. Cunningham 
Neoritai of Diodoros. The length of accordingly identifies Rambagh with 
their coast Arrian gives in his Indika Arrian's Rambakia, and remarks that 
at 1600 stadia, while Strabo extends the occurrence of the name of Ram- 
it to 1800. The actual length is 100 high at so great a distance to the 
English miles, somewhere about half west of the Indus, and at so early a 
of Arrian's estimate taken from Near- period as the time of Alexander, shows 
chos. The western boundary of the not only the wide extension of Hindu 
Oritai was marked by Cape Malan influence in ancient times, but also 
(the Malana of Arrian), which is the groat antiquity of the story of 
twenty miles distant from the river Rama (v. his Anc. Geog. of India, 
Aghor. According to Strabo the pp. 307-310). 
Oritai were the people by whose 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 169 



Chapter XXII. — Submission of the Oreitai — Description of 
the Gadrosian desert 

He then took again the half of the hypaspists and 
Agrianians, and the corps of cavalry and the horse-archers, 
and marched forward to the frontiers of the Gadrdsoi and 
the Oreitai, where he was informed his way would lie 
through a narrow defile before which the combined forces 
of the Oreitai and the Gadrdsoi were lying encamped, 
resolved to prevent his passage. They were in fact 
drawn up there, but when they were apprised of Alex- 
ander's approach most of them deserted the posts they 
were guarding and fled from the pass. Then the leaders 
of the Oreitai came to him to surrender themselves and 
their nation. He ordered them to collect the multitude 
of the Oreitai, and send them away to their homes, since 
they were not to be subjected to any bad treatment. 
Over these people he placed Apollophanes as satrap. 
Along with him he left Leonnatos, an officer of the body- 
guard in Ora, 1 in command of all the Agrianians, some of 
the archers and cavalry, and the rest of the Grecian 
mercenary infantry and cavalry, and instructed him to 
remain in the country till the fleet sailed past its shores, 
to settle a colony in the city, and establish order among 
the Oreitai, so that they might be readier to pay respect 
and obedience to the satrap. He himself with the great 
bulk of the army (for Hdphaistion had now rejoined him 
with his detachment) advanced to the country of the 
Gadrdsoi 2 by a route mostly desert. 

1 D'Anville and Vincent have as- coast, probably near Cape Katchari, to 

sumed that Ora is the Haur mentioned the east of the Hingul river, where the 

by Edrisi as lying on the route from fleet was supplied with a fresh stock 

Dibal, near the mouth of the Indus, of provisions. Perhaps it may have 

to FiruzaMd in Mekran. Its situa- here denoted the country of the 

tion is uncertain, however, as its name Oreitai. 

does not occur in any recently pub- 2 Gadrosia in Arrian denotes the 

lished account of the country. Ora inland region which extends from the 

may perhaps have been in the neigh- Oreitai to Karmania. The maritime 

bourhood of K6kala, mentioned in region between the same limits he 

the Indika as situated on the Oreitian calls the country of the Ichthyophagoi. 



I7 o THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Aristoboulos says that myrrh -trees larger than the 
common kind grow plentifully in this desert, and that the 
Phoenicians who followed the army as suttlers collected 
the drops of myrrh which oozed out in great abundance 
from the trees (their stems being large and hitherto un- 
cropped), and conveyed away the produce loaded on their 
beasts of burden. He says also that this desert yields an 
abundance of odoriferous roots of nard, which the Phoeni- 
cians likewise collected ; but much of it was trodden down 
by the army, and the sweet perfume thus crushed out of 
it was from its great abundance diffused far and wide 
over the country. 1 Other kinds of trees are found in the 
desert, one in particular which had a foliage like that of 
the laurel, and grew in places washed by the waves of the 
sea. These trees when the tide ebbed were left in dry 
ground, but when it returned they looked as if they grew 
in the sea. The roots of some were always washed by 
the sea, since they grew in hollows from which the water 
never receded, and yet trees of this kind were not destroyed 
by the brine. Some of these trees attained here the great 
height of 30 cubits. They happened to be at that 
season in bloom, and their flower closely resembled the 
white violet, 2 which, however, it far surpassed in the 
sweetness of its perfume. Another kind of thorny stalk 
is mentioned, which grew on dry land, and was armed 
with a thorn so strong that when it got entangled in the 
dress of some who were riding past, it rather pulled the 
rider down from his horse than was itself torn away from 

The Gedrosian desert since the days at 7000 only. The actual length is 

of Alexander has protected Lower 4S0 English miles, and the time taken 

Sindh from any attack by the mari- by Nearchos in its navigation was 

time route. The Persian invader has twenty days. 

preferred to encounter the dangers l A description of this unguent is 

and difficulties of the mountain passes given by Pliny (JV. H. xii. c. 26). 

of Afghanistan rather than to expose He there mentions that a special kind 

himself to such horrible sufferings in of it was produced in the Gangetic 

the burning desert as were experienced regions. In the 33d chapter of the 

by the soldiers of Semiramis, Cyrus, same book will be found a description 

and Alexander. The length of the of the myrrh-tree and its produce. 

MakrSn or Beluchistan coast between '- 1 Chinnock notes that this was 

the Oreitai and Karmania is given by probably the snow-flake. 
Arrian at 10,000 stadia and by Strabo 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 171 

its stalk. When hares are running past these bushes 
the thorns are said to fasten themselves in the fur so 
that the hares are caught like birds with bird-lime or fish 
with hooks. These thorns were, however, easily cut 
through with steel, and when severed the stalk yielded 
juice even more abundant and more acid than what flows 
from fig-trees in springtime. 1 



Chapter XXIII. — Alexander marching through GadrSsia 
endeavours to collect supplies for the fleet 

Thence he marched through the country of the 
Gadrosoi by a difficult route, on which it was scarcely 
possible to procure the necessaries of life, and which often 
failed to yield water for the army. They were besides 
compelled to march most of the way by night, and at too 
great a distance from the sea ; for Alexander wished to 
go along the sea-coast, both to see what harbours it had, 
and to make in the course of his march whatever pre- 
parations were possible for the benefit of the fleet, either 
by making his men dig wells or seek out markets and 
anchorages. The maritime parts of Gadrosia were, how- 
ever, entirely desert. Nevertheless he sent Thoas, the son 
of Mandraddros, down to the sea with a few horsemen to 
see if there happened to be any anchorage or water not 
far from the sea, or anything else that could supply the 
wants of the fleet. This man on returning reported that 
he found some fishermen upon the beach living in stifling 
huts, which had been constructed by heaping up mussel 
shells, while the roofs were formed of the backbones of 
fish. He also reported that these fishermen had only 
scanty supplies of water, obtained with difficulty by their 

1 This, says Sintenis, can be nothing Bombay and Bengal presidencies, pro- 
else than a kind of acacia. He points ducing a gum employed both as a 
out that Dioscorides (i. 33) applies to colouring matter and a medicinal 
this thorn the expression &Ka.da, which astringent, and known in commerce 
Willdenow identifies with the acacia by the name of cutch. 
catechu. It grows abundantly in the 



172 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

digging through the shingle, and that what they got was 
far from sweet. 1 

When Alexander came to a district of the Gadr6sian 
country where corn was more abundant, he seized it, 
placed it upon the beasts of burden, and having marked 
it with his own seal ordered it to be conveyed to the sea. 
But when he was coming to the halting station nearest 
the sea, the soldiers paid but little regard to the seal, and 
even the guards themselves made use of the corn and 
gave a share of it to such as were most pinched with 
hunger. Indeed, they were so overcome by their sufferings, 
that, as reason dictated, they took more account of the 
impending danger with which they now stood face to face 
than of the unseen and remote danger of the king's resent- 
ment. Alexander, however, forgave the offenders when 
made aware of the necessity which had prompted their 
act. He himself scoured the country in search of pro- 
visions, and sent Kretheus the Kallatian 2 with all the 
supplies he could collect for the use of the army which 
was sailing round with the fleet. He also ordered the 
natives to grind all the corn they could collect in the 
interior districts, and convey it, for sale to the army, 
along with dates and sheep. He besides sent Telephos, 
one of the companions, to another locality with a small 
supply of ground corn. 



Chapter XXIV. — Difficulties encountered on tlie march 
through Gadrdsia 

He then advanced towards the capital of the Gadr6soi, 
called Poura, 3 and arrived there in sixty days after he had 

1 These people were the Ichthy- "- Kallatis or Kallatia was a large 

ophagoi of whom Arrian makes city of Thrace on the coast of tie 

frequent mention in his Indika when Euxine, colonised from Miletos. 

describing the voyage of Nearchos Tliny says its former name was 

along their coast. His description of Cerbatis. 

their appearance and habits closely s v. Note V, Alexander's march 

agrees with that given by Strabo in through Gediosia, Poura. 
his chapter on Ariana. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 173 

started from Ora. Most of Alexander's historians admit 
that all the hardships which his army suffered in Asia are 
not to be compared with the miseries which it here ex- 
perienced. Nearchos is the only author who says that 
Alexander did not take that route in ignorance of its diffi- 
culty, but that he chose it on learning that no one had as 
yet traversed it with an army except Semiramis when she 
fled from India. The natives of the country say that she 
escaped with only twenty men of all her army, while even 
Cyrus, the son of Kambyses, escaped with only seven. For 
Cyrus, they say, did in truth enter this region to invade 
India, but lost, before reaching it, the greater part of his 
army from the difficulties which beset his march through 
the desert. When Alexander heard these accounts he was 
seized, it is said, with an ambition to outrival both Cyrus 
and Semiramis. Nearchos says that this motive, added to 
his desire to be near the coast in order to keep the fleet 
supplied with provisions, induced him to march by this 
route ; but that the blazing heat and want of water de- 
stroyed a great part of the army, and especially the beasts 
of burden, which perished from the great depth of the sand, 
and the heat which scorched like fire, while a great many 
died of thirst. For they met, he says, with lofty ridges of 
deep sand not hard and compact, but so loose that those 
who -stepped on it sunk down as into mud or rather into 
untrodden snow. The horses and mules besides suffered 
still more severely both in ascending and descending the 
ridges, because the road was not only uneven, but wanted 
firmness. The great distances also between the stages 
were most distressing to the army, compelled as it was at 
times from want of water to make marches above the 
ordinary length. When they traversed by night all the 
stage they had to complete and came to water in the 
morning, their distress was all but entirely relieved. But 
if as the day advanced they were caught still marching 
owing to the great length of the stage, then suffer 
they did, tortured alike by raging heat and thirst 
unquenchable. 



i 74 THE INVASION OF INDIA 



Chapter XX V. — Sufferings of the army in the Gadr&sian 

desert 

The soldiers destroyed many of the beasts of burden 
of their own accord. For when their provisions ran short 
they came together and killed most of the horses and mules. 
They ate the flesh of these animals, which they professed 
had died of thirst and perished from the heat. No one 
cared to look very narrowly into the exact nature of what 
was doing, both because of the prevailing distress and 
also because all were alike implicated in the same offence. 
Alexander himself was not unaware of what was going 
on, but he saw that the remedy for the existing state of 
things was to pretend ignorance of it rather than permit 
it as a matter that lay within his cognisance. It was 
therefore no longer easy to convey the soldiers labouring 
under sickness, nor others who had fallen behind on the 
march from exhaustion. This arose not only from the 
want of beasts of burden, but also because the men them- 
selves took to destroying the waggons when they could no 
longer drag them forward owing to the deepness of the 
sand. They had done this even in the early stages of 
the march, because for the sake of the waggons they had 
to go not by the shortest roads, but those easiest for 
carriages. Thus some were left behind on the road from 
sickness, others from fatigue or the effects of the heat or 
intolerable thirst, while there were none who could take 
them forward or remain to tend them in their sickness. 
For the army marched on apace, and in the anxiety for 
its safety as a whole the care of individuals was of 
necessity disregarded. As they generally made their 
marches by night, some of the men were overcome by 
sleep on the way, but on awaking afterwards those who 
still had some strength left followed close on the track of 
the army, and a few out of many saved their lives by 
overtaking it. The majority perished in the sand like 
shipwrecked men at sea. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 175 

Another disaster also befell the army which seriously 
affected the men themselves as well as the horses and the 
beasts of burden. For the country of the Gadrdsians, like 
that of the Indians, is supplied with rains by the Etesian 
winds ; but these rains do not fall on the Gadrosian 
plains, but on the mountains to which the clouds are 
carried by the wind, where they dissolve in rain with- 
out passing over the crests of the mountains. When 
the army on one occasion lay encamped for the night 
near a small winter torrent for the sake of its water, the 
torrent which passes that way about the second watch 
of the night became swollen by rains which had fallen 
unperceived by the army, and came rushing down with so 
great a deluge that it destroyed most of the women and 
children of the camp-followers, and swept away all the 
royal baggage and whatever beasts of burden were still 
left. The soldiers themselves, after a hard struggle, barely 
escaped with their lives, and a portion only of their 
weapons. Many of them besides came by their death 
through drinking, for if when jaded by the broiling heat 
and thirst they fell in with abundance of water, they 
quaffed it with insatiable avidity till they killed themselves. 
For this reason Alexander generally pitched his camp not 
in the immediate vicinity of the watering-places, but some 
twenty stadia off to prevent the men and beasts from 
rushing in crowds into the water to the danger of their 
lives, as well as to prohibit those who had no self-control 
from polluting the water for the rest of the troops by 
their stepping into the springs or streams. 



Chapter XX VI. — Incidents of the march through Gadrosia 

Here I feel myself bound not to pass over in silence a 
noble act performed by Alexander, perhaps the noblest 
in his record, which occurred either in this country or, 
as some other authors have asserted, still earlier, among 
the Parapamisadai. The story is this. The army was 



i 7 6 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

prosecuting its march through the sand under a sun already 
blazing high because a halt could not be made till water, 
which lay on the way farther on was reached, and 
Alexander himself, though distressed with thirst, was 
nevertheless with pain and difficulty marching on foot at 
the head of his army, that the soldiers might, as they 
usually do in a case of the kind, more cheerfully bear their 
hardships when they saw the misery equalised. But in 
the meantime some of the light-armed soldiers, starting off 
from the army, found water collected in the shallow bed 
of a torrent in a small and impure spring. Having, 
with difficulty, collected this water they hastened off to 
Alexander as if they were the bearers of some great boon. 
As soon as they came near the king they poured the 
water into a helmet, and offered it to him. He took it 
and thanked the men who brought it, but at once poured 
it upon the ground in the sight of all. By this deed the 
whole army was inspired with fresh vigour to such a 
degree that one would have imagined that the water 
poured out by Alexander had supplied a draught to the 
men all round. This deed I commend above all others, 
as it exhibits Alexander's power of endurance as well as 
his wonderful tact in the management of an army. 

The army met also with the following adventure in 
this country. The guides, becoming uncertain of the 
way, at last declared that they could no longer recognise 
it, because all its tracks had been obliterated by the sands 
which the wind blew over them. Amid the deep sands, 
moreover, which had been everywhere heaped up to a 
uniform level, nothing rose up from which the)' could 
conjecture their path, not even the usual fringe of trees, 
nor so much as the sure landmark of a hill-crest. Nor 
had they practised the art of finding their way by obser- 
vation of the stars by night or of the sun by day, as 
sailors do by watching one or other of the Bears — the 
Phoenicians the Lesser Bear, and all other nations the 
Greater. Alexander, at last perceiving that he should 
direct his march to the left, rode away forward, taking a 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 177 

small party of horsemen with him. But when their horses 
were tired out by the heat, he left most of his escort 
behind, and rode on with only five men and found the sea. 
Having scraped away the shingle on the beach, he found 
water, both fresh and pure, and then went back and 
brought his whole army to this place. And for seven 
days they marched along the sea-coast, and procured 
water from the beach. As the guides by this time knew 
the way, he led his expedition thence into the interior 
parts. 



Chapter XXVII. — Appointment of satraps — Alexander 
learns that the satrap Philippos had been murdered 
in India — Punishes satraps who had misgovernea 

When he arrived at the capital of the Gadrosians he 
then gave his army a rest. Apollophanes he deposed 
from his satrapy because he found out that he had utterly 
disregarded his instructions. He appointed Thoas to be 
satrap over the people of this district, but, as he took ill 
and died, Siburtios received the vacant office. The same 
man had also recently been appointed by Alexander 
satrap of Karmania, but now the government of the 
Arachotians and Gadrdsians was committed to him, and 
Tlepolemos, the son of Pythophanes, got Karmania. The 
king was already advancing into Karmania when tidings 
reached him that Philippos, the satrap of the Indian 
country, had been plotted against by the mercenaries and 
treacherously murdered ; but that the Macedonian body- 
guards of Philippos had put to death his murderers whom 
they had caught in the very act, and others whom they 
had afterwards seized. On learning what had occurred 
he sent a letter to India addressed to Eud£mos and 
Taxiles directing them to assume the administration of 
the province previously governed by Philippos until he 
could send a satrap to govern it. 

When he arrived in Karmania, Krateros joined him, 

N 



i 7 8 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

bringing the rest of the army and the elephants. He 
brought also Ordanes, whom he had made prisoner for 
revolting and attempting to make a revolution. Thither 
came also Stasan6r, the satrap of the Areians and 
Zarangians, accompanied by Pharismanes, the son of 
Phrataphernes, the satrap of the Parthyaians and Hyr- 
kanians. There came besides the generals who had been 
left with Parmenion over the army in Media, Kleander and 
Sitalkes and Herakon, who brought with them the greater 
part of their army. Against Kleander and Sitalkes both 
the natives and the soldiers themselves brought many 
accusations, as that they had pillaged temples, despoiled 
ancient tombs, and perpetrated other outrageous acts of 
injustice and tyranny against their subjects. When these 
charges were proved against them, he put them to death, 
to make others who might be left as satraps, or governors, 
or chiefs of districts, stand in fear of suffering a like 
punishment if they violated their duty. This was the 
means which above all others served to keep in due order 
and obedience the nations which Alexander had conquered 
in war or which had voluntarily submitted to him, nume- 
rous as they were, and so far remote from each other, 
because under his sceptre the ruled were not allowed to 
be unjustly treated by their rulers. Herakon on this 
occasion was acquitted of the charge, but was soon after- 
wards punished, because he was convicted by the men 
of Sousa of having plundered the temple of their 
city. Stasanor and Phrataphernes in setting out to join 
Alexander, took with them a multitude of beasts of 
burden and many camels, because the}- learned that he 
was taking the route through the Gadrdsians, and con- 
jectured that his army would suffer, as it actually did. 
These men arrived therefore very opportunely, as did also 
their camels and their beasts of burden. For Alexander 
distributed all these animals to the officers one by one, to 
the squadrons and centuries of the cavalry, and to the 
companies of the infantry as far as their number 
sufficed. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 179 

Chapter XX VIII. — Alexander holds rejoicings in Karmania 
on account of his Indian victories — list of his body- 
guards — Nearchos reports to him the safety of the 
fleet 

Some authors have recorded, though I cannot believe 
what they state, that he made his progress through 
Karmania stretched at length with his companions on 
two covered waggons joined together, enjoying the while 
the music of the flute, and followed by the soldiers 
crowned with garlands and making holiday. They say 
also that food and all kinds of good cheer were provided 
for them along the roads by the Karmanians, and that 
these things were done by Alexander in imitation of the 
Bacchic revelry of Dionysos, because it was said of that 
deity that, after conquering the Indians, he traversed, 
in this manner, a great part of Asia, and received the 
name of Thriambos in addition to that of Dionysos, and 
that for this very reason the splendid processions in 
honour of victories in war were called Thriamboi} But 
neither Ptolemy, the son of Lagos, nor Aristoboulos has 
mentioned these doings in their narratives, nor any other 
writer whose testimony on such subjects it would be safe 
to trust, and as for myself I have done enough in recording 
them as unworthy of belief. But in the account I now 
proceed to offer I follow Aristoboulos. In Karmania 
Alexander offered sacrifice in thanksgiving to the gods 
for his victory over the Indians, and the preservation of 
his army during its march through Gadrosia. He cele- 
brated also a musical and a gymnastic contest. He then 
appointed Peukestas to be one of his body-guards, having 
already resolved to make him the satrap of Persis. He 
wished him, before his promotion to the satrapy, to 
experience this honour and mark of confidence for 
the service he rendered among the Malloi. Up to this 
time the number of his body-guards was seven — Leonnatos, 

1 In Latin triumphi. 



180 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

the son of Anteas ; H£phasti6n, the son of Amynt6r ; 
Lysimachos, the son of Agathokles ; Aristonous, the son 
of Peisaios, who were all Pellaians ; Perdikkas, the son of 
Orontes from Orestis ; Ptolemy, the son of Lagos, and 
Peithdn, the son of Krateuas, who were both Heordaians 
— Peukestas, who had held the shield over Alexander, 
was added to them as an eighth. 

At this time Nearchos, having sailed round the coast 
of Ora and Gadrdsia, and that of the Ichthyophagoi, put 
into port in the inhabited parts of the Karmanian coast, 
and going up thence into the interior with a few followers 
related to Alexander the incidents of the voyage which 
he had made for him in the outer sea. He was sent 
down again to sea, to sail round to the land of the 
Sousians and the outlets of the river Tigris. How he 
sailed from the river Indus to the Persian Sea and the 
mouth of the Tigris, I shall describe in a separate work, 
wherein I shall follow Nearchos himself, as the history 
which he composed in the Greek language had Alexander 
for its subject. Perhaps at some future time I shall 
produce this work if my own inclination and the deity 
prompt me to the task. 



Q. CURTIUS RUFUS 



HISTORY OF ALEXANDER THE GREAT, BY 
Q. CURTIUS RUFUS 

Eighth Book 

Chapter IX. — Description of India 

Alexander, not to foster repose which naturally sets 
rumours in circulation, advanced towards India, always 
adding more to his glory by warfare than by his acts 
after victory. 

India lies almost entirely towards the east, 1 and it is 
of less extent in breadth than in length. 2 The southern 
parts rise in hills of considerable elevation. 3 The country is 
elsewhere level, and hence many famous rivers which rise 
in Mount Caucasus traverse the plains with languid 
currents. The Indus is colder than the other rivers, and 
its waters differ but little in colour from those of the sea. 
The Ganges, which is the greatest of all rivers in the east, 
flows down to the south country, and running in a straight 
bed washes great mountain-chains until a barrier of rocks 
diverts its course towards the east. Both rivers enter the 
Red Sea. 4 The Indus wears away its banks, absorbing 

1 That is, to one who, like Alex- 3 These are the mountains of the 
ander, approached it from Central peninsular part of India. 

Asia. 4 By the Red or Erythraean Sea is 

2 Eratosthenes and other ancient meant the Indian Ocean, which in- 
writers describe India as of a rhom- eluded both the Red Sea proper and 
boidal figure with the Indus on the the Persian Gulf. Curtius here makes 
west, the mountains on the north, and the two great Indian rivers flow into 
the sea on the east and the south. the same sea. His conception of the 
Curtius follows them here in reckon- configuration of India perhaps re- 
ing its length from west to east. sembled that of Ptolemy, in whose 



1 84 



THE INVASION OF INDIA 



into its waters great numbers of trees and much of 
the soil. It is besides obstructed with rocks by which it 
is frequently beaten back. Where it finds the soil soft 
and yielding it spreads out into pools and forms islands. 
The Acesines increases its volume. The Ganges, in run- 
ning downward to the sea, intercepts the Iomanes, 1 and 
the two streams dash against each other with great 
violence. The Ganges in fact presents a rough face to 
the entrance of its affluent, the waters of which though 
beaten back in eddies, hold their own. 

The Dyardanes is less frequently mentioned, as it 
flows through the remotest parts of India. But it breeds 
not only crocodiles, like the Nile, but dolphins also, and 
various aquatic monsters unknown to other nations. 2 The 
Ethimanthus, which curves time after time in frequent 
maeanders, is used up for irrigation by the people on its 
banks. Hence it contributes to the sea but a small and 
nameless residue of its waters. 3 The country is every- 



map India is so misrepresented that 
it appears without its peninsula, but 
with a point (a little below the latitude 
of Bombay) whence the coast bends 
at once sharply to the east instead of 
pursuing its actual course southward 
to Cape Comorin. 

1 " Iomanes, a clever conjectural 
insertion due to Hedike. Foss had 
suspected some such omission, as the 
old attempt to make the Acesines run 
into the Ganges by finding some other 
modern name for it was preposterous " 
(Alexander in India, by Heitland and 
Raven, p. 90). The Iomanes appears 
in Ptolemy's Geography as the Dia- 
mouna — that is the Yamuna or 
Jamna, the great river which, after 
passing Delhi, Mathura, Agra, and 
■other places, joins the Ganges at 
Allahiibid. It rises from hot springs 
not far westward from the sources 
of the Ganges. Arrian, who in his 
Indika calls it the Jobares, says that it 
flows through the country of the Sour- 
asenoi, who possess two great cities, 
Methora (Mathura) and Kleisobara 
(Krishnapura ?). Pliny (vi. 19) slates 
that it passes through the Palibothri 
to join the Ganges. At its junction 



with the Jamna, and a third, but 
imaginary river, the Sarasvatl, tie 
Ganges is called the Trivin", ie. 
" triple plait," from the intermingling 
of the three streams. 

2 This river is most probably that 
which is called the Doanas in 
Ptolemy's Geography, where it de- 
signates the Brahmaputra. The 
Doanas was probably also the Oidanes 
of Artemidoros, who, according to 
Strabo (XI. i. 72), described it as a 
river that bred crocodiles and dolphins, 
and that flowed into the Ganges. If 
the first two letters in Doanas be 
transposed, we get almost letter for 
letter the Oidanes of Artemidoros, 
and we get it again, though not so 
closely, if we discard r from the 
Dyardanes of Curtius. That these 
I wo writers had the same river in 
view is confirmed by their mentioning 
the very same animals as bred in its 
waters. 

3 No satisfactory identification of 
this river has as yet, so far as I am 
aware, been proposed. The river 
called by Arrian (iv. 6) the Etymon- 
divs, and by Polybios the Etymon- 
thus, and now known as the Helmund, 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



185 



where intersected with many rivers besides these, but 
they are obscure, their course being too short to bring 
them into prominent notice. The maritime tracts, how- 
ever, are most parched up by the north wind. This wind 
is prevented by the mountain-summits from penetrating 
to the interior parts, which for this reason are mild and 
nourish the crops. 1 But so completely has nature altered 
the regular changes of the season in these regions that, when 
other countries are basking under the hot rays of the sun, 
India is covered with snow ; and on the other hand, when 
the world elsewhere is frost-bound, India is oppressed with 
intolerable heat. The reason why nature has thus in- 
verted her order is not apparent ; the sea, at anyrate, by 
which India is washed does not differ in colour from 
other seas. It takes its name from King Erythrus, 
and hence ignorant people believe that its waters are 
red. 2 

The soil produces flax from which the dress ordinarily 



has a name pretty similar, but it does 
not discharge into the sea. It enters 
the inland lake called Zarah, in the 
province of Seistan in Afghanistan. 
According to Arrian it disappears in 
the sands. 

1 These statements about the north 
wind as it affects India have no basis 
in fact, and those that immediately 
follow reach the very acme of ab- 
surdity. The cold season occurs in 
India as in Europe during winter, but 
snow never falls on the plains. During 
the hot season, however, hailstorms 
occasionally occur and inflict more or 
less damage on the crops. I have 
myself witnessed in Calcutta a 
thunderstorm accompanied with a 
descent of hail, commingled with large 
pieces of ice, and this in one of the 
hottest months of the year, June or 
July, I forget which. 

2 Agatharchides, a writer of the 
second century B.C., begins his work 
on the Erythraean Sea by inquiring 
into the origin of its name. On this 
point four different opinions were 
held, and of these he adopted that 
which fathered the name on King 
Erythrus. He then tells the story of 



this king (who was a Persian) as he 
had learned it from a Persian called 
Boxos who had settled in Athens. 
Strabo (xvi. 20) gives a brief sum- 
mary of this passage, and Pliny (JV. H. 
vi. 28) a still briefer. Nearchos, as 
we learn from Arrian's Indika (c. 37), 
in the course of his memorable voyage 
put into an island called Oarakta (now 
Kishm), where the natives showed 
him the tomb of the first king of the 
island. They said that his name was 
Erythres, and that the sea in those 
parts was called after him the Ery- 
thraean. Opinions still differ as to 
the origin of the name. According 
to some it was given from the red and 
purple colouring of the rocks which 
in some parts border the sea, accord- 
ing to others from the red colour 
sometimes given to the waters by the 
sea-weed called Suph. Fresnel, how- 
ever, rejecting such views, interprets 
the name as meaning the sea of the 
Homeritai, i.e. Himyar or Hhoviayr, 
or red men, whose name and the 
Arabic word ahhmar (red) have the 
same root. The people here indicated 
occupied Yemen, and were called red 
men in contrast to the black men of 



1 86 



THE INVASION OF INDIA 



worn by the natives is made. 1 The tender side of the 
barks of trees receives written characters like paper. 2 
The birds can be readily trained to imitate the sounds of 
human speech. 3 The animals except those imported are 
unknown among other nations. The same country yields 
fit food for the rhinoceros, but this animal is not 
indigenous. 4 The elephants are more powerful than those 



the opposite coast. Others again 
attribute the name to Edom (Idumea), 
which bordered the Gulf of Akaba, 
the eastern arm of the Red Sea, at its 
northern extremity. Edom signifies 
red. Further references to this sub- 
ject will be found in Mela (III. viii. 
I), Solinus (c. 36), Dio Cassius (lxvili. 
28), and Stephanos Byz. s.v. 'EpvSpa. 

1 As the dress of the natives was 
made in ancient times as at present, 
chiefly from cotton, this perhaps may 
be the substance meant here by flax. 
The valuable properties of the wool- 
like product of the cotton plant (Gossy- 
pium herbaceum, the Karp&sa of 
Sanskrit) were early known, as in one 
of the hymns of the Rig-veda mention 
is made of female weavers intertwining 
the extended thread. "The dress 
worn by the Indians (says Arrian, 
citing Nearchos) is made of cotton, a 
material produced from trees. They 
wear an under - garment of cotton 
which reaches below the knee half- 
way down to the ankles, and also an 
upper garment which they throw partly 
over their shoulders, and partly twist 
in folds round their head " (Indika, 
c. 16). This costume is mentioned 
in old Sanskrit literature, and is care- 
fully represented in the frescoes on 
the caves of Ajanta. We learn from 
the Peripl&s of the Erythraean Sea 
that muslin (othonion) was imported 
into the marts of India from China, 
and exported thence along with Indian 
muslin and coarser cotton fabrics to 
Egypt. 

2 Strabo (XV. i. 67) states on the 
authority of Nearchos that the In- 
dians wrote letters upon cloth, which 
was well pressed to make it smooth, 
but adds that other writers affirmed 
that the Indians had no knowledge 
of writing. They were, however, 
acquainted with writing for some cen- 



turies before Alexander's time, but 
whence they got their alphabet is a 
question not yet quite settled, though 
the weight of opinion inclines to 
assign it a Himyaritic origin. We 
learn from Pliny (xiii. 21) that papa 
made from the papyrus plant did not 
come into common use out of Egypt 
till the time of Alexander the Great. 
He then goes on to say that for writing 
on, the leaves of palm-trees were first 
used, and then the barks (libri) of 
certain trees. Some of the Egyptian 
papyrus-rolls are as old as the sixth 
dynasty. 

s Nearchos, as we learn from 
Arrian's Indika, u. 15, was taken 
with surprise when he heard in India 
parrots talking like human beings. 
Pliny says (x. 5S) that India produces 
this bird, which is called the Septa- 
gen, and that it salutes its masters, 
and pronounces the words it hears. 
If it fails to do so it is beaten on the 
head, which is as hard as its bill, 
with an iron rod, until it repeats the 
words properly. Ovid {Amores, ii. 
6) calls the parrot the imitative bird 
from the Indians of the East. An- 
other Indian bird, the Maina, which 
in size and appearance somewhat 
resembles the thrush, can be taught 
to speak with great distinctness. It 
is probably the bird which Aelian 
{Hist. Anim. xvi. 3) describes under 
the name of the KerkiSn. 

1 Here Curtius makes a mistake, 
for not only is the rhinoceros bred in 
India, but the Indian species is the 
largest known, and its flesh was, by 
the" Brahmans, allowed to be eaten, 
though most other kinds of animal 
food were interdicted. Kt6sias de- 
scribes it, but very incorrectly, under 
the name of the one-horned ass. It 
is described also in Aelian's History 
of Animals (xvi. 20) in a passage sup- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



187 



tamed in Africa, and their size corresponds to their 
strength. 1 Gold is carried down by several rivers, whose 
loitering waters glide with slow and gentle currents. 2 
The sea casts upon the shores precious stones and pearls, 
nor has anything contributed more to the opulence of the 
natives, especially since they spread the community of 
evil to foreign nations ; for these offscourings of the 



posed to have been copied from the 
lost Indika of Megasthenes. It is 
there called the Kartazon. The 
fables about the unicorn had their 
source most probably in the fanciful 
account Ktesias has given of the 
Indian wild ass. Aristotle, referring 
to it, says briefly: "We have never 
seen a solid-hoofed animal with two 
horns, and there are only a few of 
them that have one horn, as the 
Indian ass and the oryx." Kosmas 
Indikopleustes, who, as his surname 
shows, had visited India, gives in 
the eleventh book of his Christian- 
Topography a description of the 
rhinoceros, illustrated with a picture 
of the animal which represents it as 
somewhat like a horse, with its nose 
surmounted by a pair of horns slightly 
curved. We know that the picture 
is meant to be that of the rhinoceros 
from the name being attached. Kos- 
mas says that he had only seen the 
animal from a distance. He has 
also given a description and picture 
of the unicorn, an animal which he 
had never seen, but had delineated 
from four brazen statues of it which 
adorned a palace in Aethiopia. A 
single straight horn of great length 
is represented as springing up from 
the top of its head. 

1 Pliny (Nat. Hist. viii. 11) notes, 
like Curtius here, that India produced 
the largest elephants. He had, how- 
ever, stated previously (vi. 22) that, 
according to Onesikritos, the ele- 
phants of Taprobane (Ceylon) were 
larger and more warlike than those 
of India. Many references to the 
Indian elphants occur in the classics. 
Arrian, in the thirteenth and four- 
teenth chapters of his Indika, de- 
scribes the mode in which they were 
hunted, and other particulars regard- 
ing them. Polybios (v. 84) says that 



the African elephants could neither 
endure the smell nor the trumpeting 
of their Indian congeners. 

2 Herodotos (iii. 106) says that 
gold was produced in great abund- 
ance in India, some of it washed 
down by the streams, and some dug 
out of the earth, but the greater part 
of it being the ant-gold surrepti- 
tiously procured. The heavy tribute 
levied by Darius on the Indian pro- 
vinces (chiefly west of the Indus) was 
paid in gold-dust. We learn, not- 
withstanding, from Arrian that the 
companions of Alexander found that 
the Indian tribes they met with, which 
were numerous, were destitute of gold. 
The ant-gold produced in Dardistan 
seems therefore to have found its way 
rather to the provinces west of the 
Indus than to the Panjab. Strabo 
(XV. i. 57), quoting Megasthenes, says 
that the rivers in India bring down 
gold-dust, a part of which is paid as 
a tax to the king. By the king is 
here meant Chandragupta (Sandro- 
kottos), at whose court Megasthenes 
for some years resided. As the river 
S6n, which in his time entered the 
Ganges at Palibothra (now Patna), 
was called poetically the Hi?'anya- 
vdha — i.e. " bearing gold, " — we may 
assume that gold was found in the 
sands of that river. The grandson 
of Chandragupta, As'oka, as is stated 
in the Mahavansd, sent missionaries 
to preach Buddhism into the gold 
district of Suvarnabhiimi, a region 
which Tumour identified with Burma, 
but which Lassen took to be a mari- 
time district situated somewhere in 
the west (v. his Ind. Alt. ii. pp. 236, 
237 ; also i. 237, 238). Strabo (XV. i. 
30) says that in the country of So- 
peithis there were valuable mines 
both of gold and silver among the 
mountains. 



1 88 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

boiling sea are valued at the price which fashion sets on 
coveted luxuries. 1 

The character of the people is here, as elsewhere, 
formed by the position of their country and its climate, 
They cover their persons down to the feet with fine 
muslin, are shod with sandals, 2 and coil round their 
heads cloths of linen (cotton). They hang precious 
stones as pendants from their ears, and persons of high 
social rank, or of great wealth, deck their wrist and upper 
arm with bracelets of gold. They frequently comb, but 
seldom cut, the hair of their head. The beard of the 
chin they never cut at all, but they shave off the hair 
from the rest of the face, so that it looks polished. 3 The 
luxury of their kings, or as they call it, their magnifi- 
cence, is carried to a vicious excess without a parallel in 
the world. 

When the king condescends to show himself in public 
his attendants carry in their hands silver censers, and 
perfume with incense all the road by which it is his 
pleasure to be conveyed. He lolls in a golden palanquin, 
garnished with pearls, which dangle all round it, and he 
is robed in fine muslin embroidered with purple and gold. 

1 Pliny, in the latter part of his sapphire as precious stones of India. 

37th book, treats of the various kinds They mention also various pearl 

of precious stones found in India, fisheries existing in and near India, 

and of the uses to which they are Arrian states in his Indika (c. 8) that 

there applied. In some of the other the pearl in India is worth thrice its 

books incidental notices of them are weight in refined gold, and that it 

also to be met with, while his 9th was called in the Indian tongue 

book is full of details about the pearl. Margarita. This, which is also its 

From Strabo (II. iii. 4) we learn that classical name, may represent either 

an adventurer, Eudoxos of Kyzikos, the Sanskrit manjari, or the Persian 

who had been sent by Ptolemy Phys- manoartd. 

kon, king of Egypt, to India, re- - Arrian, on the authority of Xear- 

turned thence, bringing back with chos, states in his Indika (c. 16) that 

him precious stones, some of which the Indianswearshoesofwhiteleather 

the Indians collect from among the elaborately trimmed, and having thick 

pebbles of the river, and others of soles (or heels) to make them look 

which they dig out of the earth. In taller. 

his 15th book he stales that India s Strabo notes from Kleitarchos 
produces precious stones, as crystals, similar statements regarding the treat- 
carbuncles of all kinds, and pearls. ment of their hair by the Indians (XV 
In Ptolemy's Geography of India, i. 71), and Arrian has noted the 
and in the Prriphh of the Eythracan Indian practice (which is still in 
Sea mention is made of the diamond, vogue) of dying the beard of a variety 
beryl, onyx, cornelian, hyacinth, and of colours. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 189 

Behind his palanquin follow men-at-arms and his body- 
guards, of whom some carry boughs of trees, on which 
birds are perched trained to interrupt business with their 
cries. 1 The palace is adorned with gilded pillars clasped 
all round by a vine embossed in gold, while silver images 
of those birds which most charm the eye diversify the 
workmanship. The palace is open to all comers even 
when the king is having his hair combed and dressed. 
It is then that he gives audience to ambassadors, and 
administers justice to his subjects. His slippers being after 
this taken off, his feet are rubbed with scented ointments. 
His principal exercise is hunting ; amid the vows and 
songs of his courtesans he shoots the game enclosed 
within the royal park. The arrows, which are two cubits 
long, are discharged with more effort than effect, for 
though the force of these missiles depends on their light- 
ness they are loaded with an obnoxious weight. He rides 
on horseback when making short journeys, but when 
bound on a distant expedition he rides in a chariot 
(howdah) mounted on elephants, and, huge as these 
animals are, their bodies are covered completely over 
with trappings of gold. That no form of shameless 
profligacy may be wanting, he is accompanied by a 
long train of courtesans carried in golden palanquins, 
and this troop holds a separate place in the procession 
from the queen's retinue, and is as sumptuously ap- 
pointed. His food is prepared by women, who also 
serve him with wine, which is much used by all the 
Indians. When the king falls into a drunken sleep his 

1 "In the processions at Indian the splendour of its plumage. The 

festivals (says Strabo, XV. i. 69) are luxurious mode of life in which the 

to be seen wild beasts, as buffaloes, Indian king (Chandragupta) indulged 

panthers, tame lions, and a multitude is described by Strabo (XV. i. 55) 

of birds of variegated plumage and of much in the same terms as by Curtius 

fine song." Aelian, in a passage copied here. The native writings called 

most probably from Megasthenes, says sutras describe in like manner how 

that the favourite bird of the king of the kings at festivals march out on 

the Indians (Chandragupta no doubt) elephants to the sound of all kinds 

was the hoopoe. He carried it on of instruments, amid the scent of 

his wrist, and amused himself with perfumes and clouds of frankin- 

lt, and never tired gazing with ad- cense, 
miration on its exquisite beauty, and 



1 9 o THE INVASION OF INDIA 

courtesans carry him away to his bedchamber, invoking 
the gods of the night in their native hymns. 1 

Amid this corruption of morals who would expect to 
find the culture of philosophy ? Notwithstanding, they 
have men whom they call philosophers, of whom one 
class lives in the woods and fields, and is extremely 
uncouth. These think it glorious to anticipate the hour 
of destiny, and arrange to have themselves burned alive 
when age has destroyed their activity, or the failure of 
health has made life burdensome. They regard death if 
waited for as a disgrace to their life, and when dissolution 
is simply the effect of old age funeral honours are denied 
to the dead body. They think that the fire is polluted 
unless the pyre receives the body before the breath has 
yet left it. 2 Those philosophers again who lead a civilised 
life in cities are said to observe the motions of the 
heavenly bodies, and to predict future events on scien- 
tific principles. These believe that no one accelerates 
the day of his death who can without fear await its 
coming.® 

1 Strabo adds the significant state- sions, and a final rupture between 

ment that the king at night is obliged them and their brethren of Iran, 

from time to time to change his couch The wine used at sacrifices was the 

from dread of treachery. The fre- fermented juice of the plant called 

quency of changes in the succession soma. When required for drinking 

shows that such a precaution was not it was mixed with milk. 

unnecessary. If a woman put to = The diversity of views which pre- 

death a king when he was drunk, vailed in India regarding suicide was 

she was rewarded by becoming the noticed by Megasthenes. The book 

wife of his successor. From Athen- of the law, in case of incapacity, 

aios we learn that among the Indians regards it as meritorious, but the 

the king might not get drunk. The Buddhists altogether condemned it. 

assertion made by Curtius that the Pliny (vi. 19) says that the Indian 

Indians all use much wine is contrary sages always ended their life by a 

to the testimony of Megasthenes, who voluntary death on the funeral pile, 

said that they use it only on sacrificial a This is a very vague and meagre 

occasions. Wine was no doubt im- account of the opinions and practices 

ported into the marts of the Malabar of the Indian philosophers and asce- 

coast, but the quantity must have tics. Other writers are more copious 

been limited, and could onlv have on the subject, as Strabo (XV.), Arrian 

been purchased by the rich. The {Anak vii. 2, ?; Ituiita, 11), DiodSros 

Brahmans of the Ganges, from whom (ii. 40I, Plutarch {Life of Alexander, 

Megasthenes obtained much infor- 64,65). References are made to it by 

mation, punished indulgence in in- Mela, Suidas, Orosius, Philo, Am- 

toxicating drinks with groat severity. brosius, Aelian, Porphyrius, and 

The Aryans of the Panjab were less others (;'. Notes W and Uh). 
abstemious, and this led to dissen- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 191 

They regard as gods whatever objects they value, 
especially trees, to violate which is a capital offence. 1 
Their months they make to consist each of fifteen days, 
but they nevertheless assign to the year its full duration. 
They mark the divisions of time by the course of the 
moon, not like most nations when that planet shows a 
full face, but when she begins to appear horned, and 
hence, by fixing the duration of a month to correspond 
with this phase of the moon, they have their months one- 
half shorter than the months of other people. 2 Many 
other things have been related of them, but to interrupt 
with them the progress of the narrative I consider quite 
out of place. 



Chapter X. — Campaign in the regions west of the Indus — 
Alexander captures Nysa, and visits Mount Merus 
— Siege of Mazaga, and its surrender 

Alexander had no sooner entered India than the chiefs 
of various tribes came to meet him with proffers of ser- 
vice. He was, they said, the third descendant of Jupiter 
who had visited their country, and that while Father 
Bacchus and Hercules were known to them merely by 
tradition, him they saw present before their eyes. To 
these he accorded a gracious reception, and intending to 
employ them as his guides, he bade them to accompany 
him. But when no more chiefs came to surrender, he 
despatched Hephaestion and Perdiccas in advance with a 
part of his army to reduce whatever tribes declined his 
authority. He ordered them to proceed to the Indus 
and build boats for transporting the army to the other 
side of that river. Since many rivers would have to be 
crossed, they so constructed the vessels that, after being 
taken to pieces, the sections could be conveyed in wag- 
gons, and be again pieced together. He himself, leaving 
Craterus to follow with the infantry, pressed forward with 

1 Certain trees are still held sacred thought to be frequented by bhuts, 
in India. The pipal, for instance, is i.e. demons. 2 See Note X. 



193 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

the cavalry and light troops, and falling in with the 
enemy easily routed them, and chased them into the 
nearest city. Craterus had now rejoined him, and the 
king, wishing to strike terror into this people, who had 
not yet proved the Macedonian arms, gave previous orders 
that when the fortifications of the city under siege had 
been burned, not a soul was to be left alive. Now, in 
riding up to the walls he was wounded by an arrow, but 
he captured the place, and having massacred all the 
inhabitants, vented his rage even upon the buildings. 1 

Having conquered this obscure tribe, he moved thence 
towards the city of Nysa. The camp, it so happened, 
was pitched under the walls on woody ground, and as the 
cold at night was more piercing than had ever before 
been felt, it made the soldiers shiver. But they were 
fortunate enough to have at hand the means of making 
a fire, for felling the copses they kindled a flame, and fed 
it with faggots, so that it seized the tombs of the citizens, 
which, being made of old cedar wood, spread the fire they 
had caught in all directions till every tomb was burned 
down. The barking of dogs was now heard from the 
town, followed by the clamour of human voices from tk 
camp. Thus the citizens discovered that the enemy had 
arrived, and the Macedonians that they were close to the 
city. 

The king had now drawn out his forces and was 
assaulting the walls, when some of the defenders risked 
an engagement. These were, however, overpowered with 
darts, so that dissensions broke out among the Nysaeans, 
some advising submission, but others the trial of a battle. 
Alexander, on discovering that their opinions were divided, 
instituted a close blockade, but forbade further bloodshed. 
After a while they surrendered, unable to endure longer 
the miseries of a blockade. Their city, so they asserted, 
was founded by Father Bacchus, and this was in fact its 

1 Arrian says, however, that most fortified by a double wall, escaped to 
of the inhabitants of this city, which the mountains, 
belonged to the Aspasians, and was 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 193 

origin. It was situated at the foot of a mountain which 
the inhabitants call Meros, whence the Greeks took the 
license of coining the fable that Father Bacchus had been 
concealed in the thigh of Jupiter. The king learned from 
the inhabitants where the mountain lay, and sending 
provisions on before, climbed to its summit with his whole 
army. 1 There they saw the ivy-plant and the vine 
growing in great luxuriance all over the mountain, and 
perennial waters gushing from its slopes. The juices of 
the fruits were various and wholesome since the soil 
favoured the growth of chance-sown seeds, and even the 
crags were frequently overhung with thickets of laurel 
and spikenard. I attribute it not to any divine impulse, 
but to wanton folly, that they wreathed their brows with 
chaplets of gathered ivy and vine-leaves, and roved at 
large through the woods like bacchanals ; so that, when 
the folly initiated by a few had, as usually happens, 
suddenly infected the whole multitude, 2 the slopes and 
peaks of the mountain rang with the shouts of thousands 
paying their homage to the guardian divinity of the grove. 
Nay, they even flung themselves down full length on the 
greensward, or on heaps of leaves as if peace reigned all 
around. The king himself, so far from looking askance at 
this extemporaneous revel, supplied with a liberal hand all 
kinds of viands for feasting, and kept the army engaged for 
ten days in celebrating the orgies of Father Bacchus. Who 
then can deny that even distinguished glory is a boon for 
which mortals are oftener indebted to fortune than to 
merit, seeing that when they had abandoned themselves 
to feasting and were drowsed with wine the enemy had 
not even the courage to fall upon them, being terrified no 
less by the uproar and howling made by the revellers 
than if the shouts of warriors rushing to battle had rung 

1 Philostratos (ii. 4) says that and have their love of wine revived 

Alexander did not ascend the moun- after being accustomed to do without 

tain, but, though anxious to do so, con- it. 

tented himself with offering prayers 2 The Elzevir editor aptly quotes 

and sacrifices at its base. He was here Tacit. H. i. 55 : Insita mortali- 

afraid that the Macedonians on seeing bus natura, propere sequi, quae piget 

the vines would be reminded of home, inchoare. 



1 94 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

in their ears. The like good fortune afterwards protected 
them in the presence of their enemies when on returning 
from the ocean they gave themselves up to drunken 
festivity. 

From Nysa they came to a region called Daedala. 1 
The inhabitants had deserted their habitations and fled 
for safety to the trackless recesses of their mountain 
forests. He therefore passed on to Acadira, which he 
found burned, and like Daedala deserted by the flight of 
the inhabitants. Necessity made him therefore change 
his plan of operations. For having divided his forces 
he showed his arms at many points at once, and the 
inhabitants taken by surprise were overwhelmed with 
calamities of every kind. Ptolemy took a greater number 
of cities, and Alexander himself those that were more 
important. This done, he again drew together his 
scattered forces. Having next crossed the river Choaspes, 2 
he left Coenus to besiege an opulent city — the inhabitants 
called it Beira 3 — while he himself went on to Mazaga. 

Assacanus, its previous sovereign, had lately died, and 
his mother Cleophis now ruled the city and the realm. 
An army of 38,000 infantry defended the city which was 
strongly fortified both by nature and art. For on the 

1 Justin (xii. 7) speaks of mountains mirians), who in Ptolemy's days had 

which he calls Daedali, and these extended their rule as far eastward as 

Cunningham (p. 52) takes to be the regions of the Jamna. Abbot in 

Mount Dantalok, which is about three his Grains adAorrwn seems to identify 

miles distant from Palo-dheri (or Daedala with Doodial, and Acadira, 

Pelley, as General Court calls it), a which is mentioned immediately after, 

place forty miles distant from Pash- with Kaldura. 
kalavati (Hasht - nagar). In the 2 Arrian calls this river IheEuaspla. 



spoken dialect, he adds, Dantalok 
becomes Dattalok, which the Greel< 
Daidalos may fairly be taken to re 
present. I think, however, Alex 
ander had not penetrated so far east 
ward as this identification implies 



It is most probably the Kamah or 
Kunar river. Its name, Cho-asp-ts, 
has one of the elements of the name 
of the people in its neighbourhood, 
the Asp-asioi. The prefix eio may, 
like cu or ,r», mean river, and Aspa 



It has been taken by Miiller to be means a horse, in Zend. 
Arrian's Andaka or AndCIa, which ■' Beira, it has been supposed, is 

he would therefore alter to Daidala. the Bazira of Arrian ; but as this has 

An Indian city called Daidala is been on adequate grounds identified 

mentioned by Stephanos Byz., ami in with Bazar of the present day, the 

Ptolemy's Geography another city of supposition is untenable. Bazar lies 

the same name is mentioned as be- too far east to suit the requirements, 
longing to the Kaspeiraioi (or Kash- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT i 95 

east, an impetuous mountain-stream with steep banks on 
both sides barred approach to the city, while to south and 
west nature, as if designing to form a rampart, had piled 
up gigantic rocks, at the base of which lay sloughs and 
yawning chasms hollowed in the course of ages to vast 
depths, while a ditch of mighty labour drawn from their 
extremity continued the line of defence. The city was 
besides surrounded with a wall 3 5 stadia in circumference 
which had a basis of stonework supporting a super- 
structure of unburnt, sun-dried bricks. The brick-work 
was bound into a solid fabric by means of stones so 
interposed that the more brittle material rested upon the 
harder, while moist clay had been used for mortar. Lest, 
however, the structure should all at once sink, strong 
beams had been laid upon these, supporting wooden floors 
which covered the walls and afforded a passage along 
them. 1 

Alexander while reconnoitring the fortifications, and 
unable to fix on a plan of attack, since nothing less than 
a vast mole, necessary for bringing up his engines to the 
walls, would suffice to fill up the chasms, was wounded 
from the ramparts by an arrow which chanced to hit him 
in the calf of the leg. When the barb was extracted, he 
called for his horse, and without having his wound so 
much as bandaged, continued with unabated energy to pro- 
secute the work on hand. But when the injured limb was 
hanging without support, and the gradual cooling, as the 
blood dried, aggravated the pain, he is reported to have 
said that though he was called, as all knew, the son of 
Jupiter, he felt notwithstanding all the defects of the weak 
body. 2 He did not, however, return to the camp till he 

1 " How this arrangement was to 2 Seneca {Epistle 59) puts almost 

prevent the upper part of the wall the same words into his mouth : "All 

from settling down is a mystery as the swear that I am the son of Jupiter, 

text stands ; and we can only suppose but this wound proclaims me to be a 

that (a) Curtius has not understood man. " This is perhaps the occasion 

his authorities, or (b) has left out some to which Plutarch refers when he 

important steps in the description, or states (Alex. 28) that Alexander when 

(c) that the text is mutilated so as to shot with an arrow turned in his pain 

conceal his real meaning." — Alex, in to his attendants, and said: "This 

India, p. 107. blood, my friends, is not the ichor 



196 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

had viewed every thing and ordered what he wanted to 
be done. Accordingly some of the soldiers began, as 
directed, to destroy the houses outside the city and to 
take from the ruins much material for raising a mole, 
while others cast into the hollows large trunks of trees, 
branches and all, together with great masses of rock, 
When the mole had now been raised to a level with the 
surface of the ground, they proceeded to erect towers ; and 
so zealously did the soldiers prosecute the works, that 
they finished them completely within nine days. These 
the king, before his wound had as yet closed, proceeded 
to inspect. He commended the troops, and then from 
the engines which he had ordered to be propelled a great 
storm of missiles was discharged against the defenders on 
the ramparts. What had most effect in intimidating the 
barbarians was the spectacle of the movable towers, for to 
works of that description they were utter strangers, 
Those vast fabrics moving without visible aid, they 
believed to be propelled by the agency of the gods. 1 It 
was impossible, they said, that those javelins for attacking 
walls — those ponderous darts hurled from engines could 
be within the compass of mortal power. Giving up there- 
fore the defence as hopeless, they withdrew into the 
citadel, whence, as nothing but to surrender was open to 
the besieged, they sent down envoys to the king to sue 
for pardon. 2 This being granted, the queen came with a 
great train of noble ladies who poured out libations of 
wine from golden bowls. The queen herself, having 
placed her son, still a child, at Alexander's knees, obtained 
not only pardon, but permission to retain her former 
dignity, for she was styled queen, and some have believed 

which _ blest immortals shed " — a mander killed. We read in Caesai 

quotation from Homer. that his engines produced a similar 

1 Pratt (ii. 276, n.) notices from effect on the minds of the Gauls. 

Athenaios that these movable towers They said that they could not believe 

were invented by Dyadcs, pupil of the Romans were warring without the 

1'olyeldes, who accompanied Alex- help of the gods since they were able 

ander. to move forward engines of so great a 

» According to Arrian, the besieged height and with such celerity [Dt Bill. 

lost heart not from terror of the Gall. ii. 31). 
engines, but on seeing their com- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 197 

that this indulgent treatment was accorded rather to the 
charms of her person than to pity for her misfortunes. 
At all events she afterwards gave birth to a son who 
received the name of Alexander, whoever his father may 
have been. 

Chapter XL — Siege and capture of the Rock Aornis 

Polypercon being despatched hence with an army to 
the city of Nora, defeated the undisciplined multitude 
which he encountered, and pursuing them within their 
fortifications compelled them to surrender the place. 
Into the king's own hands there fell many inconsiderable 
towns, deserted by their inhabitants who had escaped in 
time with their arms and seized a rock called Aornis. A 
report was current that this stronghold had been in vain 
assaulted by Hercules, who had been compelled by an 
earthquake to raise the siege. The rock being on all 
sides steep and rugged, Alexander was at a loss how to 
proceed, when there came to him an elderly man familiar 
with the locality accompanied by two sons, offering, if 
Alexander would make it worth his while, to show him a 
way of access to the summit. Alexander agreed to give 
him eighty talents, and, keeping one of his sons as a 
hostage, sent him to make good his offer. Mullinus 
(Eumenes ?), the king's secretary, was put in command of 
the light-armed men, for these, as had been decided, were 
to climb to the summit by a detour, to prevent their being 
seen by the enemy. 

This rock does not, like most eminences, grow up to 
its towering top by gradual and easy acclivities, but rises 
up straight just like the meta, which from a wide base 
tapers off in ascending till it terminates in a sharp 
pinnacle. 1 The river Indus, here very deep and enclosed 

1 Curtius had no doubt here in centre of the Roman circus ran length- 

his eye a passage from Livy, whose ways down the course a low wall, at 

picturesque style was his exemplar : each extremity of which were placed, 

"Ipse collis est in modum metae in upon a base, three wooden cylinders 

acutum cacumen a fundo satis lato of a conical shape which were called 

fastigatus " (B. xxxvii. 27). In the metae — the goals. 



198 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

between rugged banks, washes its roots. In another 
quarter are swamps and craggy ravines ; and only by 
filling up these could an assault upon the stronghold be 
rendered practicable. A wood which was contiguous the 
king directed to be cut down. The trees where they fell 
were stripped of their leaves and branches which would 
otherwise have proved an impediment to their transport. 
He himself threw in the first trunk, whereupon followed a 
loud cheer from the army, a token of its alacrity, no one 
refusing a labour to which the king was the first to put 
his hand. Within the seventh day they had filled up the 
hollows, and then the king directed the archers and the 
Agrianians to struggle up the steep ascent. He selected 
besides from his personal staff 1 thirty of the most active 
among the young men, whom he placed under the 
command of Charus and Alexander. The latter he 
reminded of the name which he bore in common with 
himself. 

And at first, because the peril was so palpable, a 
resolution was passed that the king should not hazard his 
safety by taking part in the assault. 2 But when the 
trumpet sounded the signal, the audacious prince at once 
turned to his body-guards, and bidding them to follow 
was the first to assail the rock. None of the Macedonians 
then held back, but all spontaneously left their posts and 
followed the king. Many perished by a dismal fate, for 
they fell from the shelving crags and were engulfed in the 
river which flowed underneath — a piteous sight even for 
those who were not themselves in dansrer. But when 
reminded by the destruction of their comrades what they 
had to dread for themselves, their pity changed to fear, 
and they began to lament not for the dead but for 
themselves. 



Ex sua cohorts— that is, from the 2 Perhaps passed by a countil of 
retinue of pages in immediate attend- war or a general assembly of the 
ance on the king. From this body troops. Philotas, the son of Par- 
officers were selected to fill the highest memon, was condemned to death by 
civil and military posts in the Mace- the Macedonian army, 
donian state. , J 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 199 

And now they had attained a point whence they could 
not return without disaster unless victorious, for as the 
barbarians rolled down massive stones upon them while 
they climbed, such as were struck fell headlong from their 
insecure and slippery positions. Alexander and Charus, 
however, whom the king had sent in advance with the 
thirty chosen men, reached the summit, and had by this 
time engaged in a hand-to-hand fight ; but since the 
barbarians discharged their darts from higher ground, the 
assailants received more wounds than they inflicted. So 
then Alexander, mindful alike of his name and his pro- 
mise, in fighting with more spirit than judgment, fell 
pierced with many darts. Charus, seeing him lying dead, 
made a rush upon the enemy, caring for nothing but 
revenge. Many received their death from his spear and 
others from his sword. But as he was single-handed 
against overwhelming odds, he sank lifeless on the body 
of his friend. 1 

The king, duly affected by the death of these heroic 
youths and the other soldiers, gave the signal for retiring. 
It conduced to the safety of the troops that tbey retreated 
leisurely, preserving their coolness, and that the bar- 
barians, satisfied with having driven them down hill, did 
not close on them when they withdrew. But, though 
Alexander had resolved to abandon the enterprise, deem- 
ing the capture of the rock hopeless, he still made 
demonstrations of persevering with the siege, for by his 
orders the avenues were blocked, the towers advanced, 
and the working parties relieved when tired. The Indians, 
on seeing his pertinacity, by way of demonstrating not 
only their confidence but their triumph, devoted two days 
and nights to festivity and beating their national music 
out of their drums. But on the third night the rattle 
of the drums ceased to be heard. Torches, however, 
which, as the night was dark, the barbarians had lighted 

1 The readers of Virgil will be account of the death-scene from that 

reminded by this episode of that of poet rather than from any historical 

Euryalus and Nisus. Curtius indeed authority, 
seems to me to have borrowed his 



200 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

to make their flight safer down the precipitous crags, shed 
their glare over every part of the rocks. 

The king learned from Balacrus, who had been sent 
forward to reconnoitre, that the Indians had fled and 
abandoned the rock. He thereupon gave a signal that 
his men should raise a general shout, and he thus struck 
terror into the fugitives as they were making off in dis- 
order. Then many, as if the enemy were already upon 
them, flung themselves headlong over the slippery rocks 
and precipices and perished, while a still greater number, 
who were hurt, were left to their fate by those who had 
descended without accident. Although it was the position 
rather than the enemy he had conquered, the king gave to 
this success the appearance of a great victory by offering 
sacrifices and worship to the gods. Upon the rock he erected 
altars dedicated to Minerva and Victory. To the guides 
who had shown the way to the light-armed detachment 
which had been sent to scale the rock he honourably paid 
the stipulated recompense, even although their perform- 
ance had fallen short of their promises. The defence of 
the rock and the country surrounding was entrusted to 
Sisocostus. 



Chapter XII. — Alexander marches to tlie Indus, crosses it, 
and is hospitably received by Omphis, King of Taxila 

Thence he marched towards Embolima, but on learning 
that the pass which led thereto was occupied by 20,000 
men in arms under Erix, 1 he hurried forward himself with 
the archers and slingers, leaving the heavy-armed troops 
under the command of Coenus to advance leisurely. 
Having dislodged those men who beset the defile, he 
cleared the passage for the army which followed. The 
Indians, either from disaffection to their chief or to court 
the favour of the conqueror, set upon Erix during his 
flight and killed him. They brought his head and his 

1 lie is called Aphrikes by Diodoros. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 201 

armour to Alexander, who did not punish them for their 
crime, but to condemn their example gave them no 
reward. Having left this pass, he arrived after the six- 
teenth encampment at the river Indus, where he found 
that Hephaestion, agreeably to his orders, had made all 
the necessary preparations for the passage across it. 

The sovereign of the territories on the other side was 
Omphis, 1 who had urged his father to surrender his king- 
dom to Alexander, and had moreover at his father's 
death sent envoys to enquire whether it was Alexander's 
pleasure that he should meanwhile exercise authority or 
remain in a private capacity till his arrival. He was per- 
mitted to assume the sovereignty, but modestly forbore to 
exercise its functions. He had extended to Hephaestion 
marks of civility, and given corn gratuitously to his 
soldiers, but he had not gone to join him, from a reluct- 
ance to make trial of the good faith of any but Alexander. 
Accordingly, on Alexander's approach, he went to meet 
him at the head of an army equipped for the field. He 
had even brought his elephants with him, which, posted 
at short intervals amidst the ranks of the soldiery, 
appeared to the distant spectator like towers. 

Alexander at first thought it was not a friendly but a 
hostile army that approached, and had already ordered 
the soldiers to arm themselves, and the cavalry to divide 
to the wings, and was ready for action. But the Indian 
prince, on seeing the mistake of the Macedonians, put his 
horse to the gallop, leaving orders that no one else was to 
stir from his place. Alexander likewise galloped forward, 
not knowing whether it was an enemy or a friend he had 
to encounter, but trusting for safety perhaps to his valour, 
perhaps to the other's good faith. They met in a friendly 
spirit, as far as could be gathered from the expression of 
each one's face, but from the want of an interpreter to 
converse was impossible. An interpreter was therefore 

Diodoros less accurately calls mar (v. Journal Asiatique, Series 

him Mophis. His name Ambhi (in VIII. tome xv. p. 235). For remarks 

Sanskrit) is found in the Gana-patha, on the coined money which he gave to 

a genuine appendix to Pacini's Gram- Alexander, see Note Ki. 



2 02 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

procured, and then the barbarian prince explained that he 
had come with his army to meet Alexander that he 
might at once place at his disposal all the forces of his 
empire, without waiting to tender his allegiance through 
deputies. He surrendered, he said, his person and his 
kingdom to a man who, as he knew, was fighting not more 
for fame than fearing to incur the reproach of perfidy. 

The king, pleased with the simple honesty of the 
barbarian, gave him his right hand as a pledge of his own 
good faith, and confirmed him in his sovereignty. The 
prince had brought with him six-and-fifty elephants, and 
these he gave to Alexander, with a great many sheep of 
an extraordinary size, and 3000 bulls of a valuable breed, 
highly prized by the rulers of the country. When Alex- 
ander asked him whether he had more husbandmen or 
soldiers, he replied that as he was at war with two kings 
he required more soldiers than field labourers. These 
kings were Abisares and Porus, but Porus was superior in 
power and influence. Both of them held sway beyond 
the river Hydaspes, and had resolved to try the fortune of 
war whatever invader might come. 

Omphis, under Alexander's permission, and according 
to the usage of the realm, assumed the ensigns of royalty 
along with the name which his father had borne. His 
people called him Taxiles, for such was the name which 
accompanied the sovereignty, on whomsoever it devolved. 
When, therefore, he had entertained Alexander for three 
days with lavish hospitality, he showed him on the fourth 
day what quantity of corn he had supplied to Hephaes- 
tion's troops, and then presented him and all his friends 
with golden crowns, and eighty talents besides of coined 
silver. Alexander was so exceedingly gratified with this 
profuse generosity that he not only sent back to Omphis the 
presents he had given, but added a thousand talents from 
the spoils which he carried, along with many banqueting 
vessels of gold and silver, a vast quantity of Persian 
drapery, and thirty chargers from his own stalls, capari- 
soned as when ridden by himself. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 203 

This liberality, while it bound the barbarian to his 
interests, gave at the same time the deepest offence to his 
own friends. One of them, Meleager, who had taken too 
much wine at supper, said that he congratulated Alex- 
ander on having found in India, if nowhere else, some one 
worthy of a thousand talents. The king, who had not 
forgotten what remorse he had suffered when he killed 
Clitus for audacity of speech, controlled his temper, but 
remarked that envious persons were nothing but their 
own tormentors. 



Chapter XIII. — Alexander and Porus confront each other on 
opposite banks of the Hydaspes 

On the following day envoys from Abisares reached 
the king, and, as they had been instructed, surrendered to 
him all that their master possessed. After pledges of 
good faith had been interchanged, they were sent back to 
their sovereign. Alexander, thinking that by the mere 
prestige of his name Porus also would be induced to 
surrender, sent Cleochares to tell him in peremptory 
terms that he must pay tribute and come to meet his 
sovereign at the very frontiers of his own dominions. 
Porus answered that he would comply with the second of 
these demands, and when Alexander entered his realm he 
would meet him, but come armed for battle. Alexander 
had now resolved to cross the Hydaspes, when Barzaentes, 
who had instigated the Arachosians to revolt, was brought 
to him in chains, along with thirty captured elephants, an 
opportune reinforcement against the Indians, since these 
huge beasts more than the soldiery constituted the hope 
and main strength of an Indian army. 

Samaxus was also brought in chains, the king of a 
small Indian state, who had espoused the cause of 
Barzaentes. Alexander having then put the traitor and 
his accomplice under custody, and consigned the elephants 
to the care of Taxiles, advanced till he reached the river 



204 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Hydaspes, where on the further bank Poms had encamped 
to prevent the enemy from landing. In the van of his 
army he had posted 8 5 elephants of the greatest size and 
strength, and behind these 300 chariots and somewhere 
about 30,000 infantry, among whom were the archers, 
whose arrows, as already stated, were too ponderous to 
be readily discharged. He was himself mounted on an 
elephant which towered above all its fellows, while his 
armour, embellished with gold and silver, set off his 
supremely majestic person to great advantage. His 
courage matched his bodily vigour, and his wisdom was 
the utmost attainable in a rude community. 

The Macedonians were intimidated not only by the 
appearance of the enemy, but by the magnitude of the 
river to be crossed, which, spreading out to a width of no 
less than four stadia in a deep channel which nowhere 
opened a passage by fords, presented the aspect of a 
vast sea. Yet its rapidity did not diminish in proportion 
to its wider diffusion, but it rushed impetuously like a 
seething torrent compressed into a narrow bed by the 
closing in of its banks. Besides, at many points the 
presence of sunken rocks was revealed where the waves 
were driven back in eddies. The bank presented a still 
more formidable aspect, for, as far as the eye could see, 
it was covered with cavalry and infantry, in the midst of 
which, like so many massive structures, stood the huge 
elephants, which, being of set purpose provoked by their 
drivers, distressed the ear with their frightful roars. The 
enemy and the river both in their front, struck with 
sudden dismay the hearts of the Macedonians, disposed 
though they were to entertain good hopes, and knowing 
from experience against what fearful odds they had ere now 
contended. They could not believe that boats so unhandy 
could be steered to the bank or gain it in safety. In the 
middle of the river were numerous islands to which both 
the Indians and Macedonians began to swim over, hold- 
ing their weapons above their heads. Here they would 
engage in skirmishes, while each king endeavoured from 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 205 

the result of these minor conflicts to gauge the issue of 
the final struggle. In the Macedonian army were 
Symmachus and Nicanor, both young men of noble 
lineage, distinguished for their hardihood and enterprise, 
and from the uniform success of their side in whatever 
they assayed, inspired with a contempt for every kind of 
danger. Led by these, a party of the boldest youths, 
equipped with nothing but lances, swam over to the island 
when it was occupied by crowds of the enemy. 

Armed with audacious courage, the best of all weapons, 
they slew many of the Indians, and might have retired 
with glory if temerity when successful could ever keep 
within bounds. But while with contempt and pride they 
waited till succours reached the enemy, they were sur- 
rounded by men who had unperceived swum over to the 
island, and were overthrown by discharges of missiles. 
Such as escaped the enemy were either swept away by 
the force of the current or swallowed up in its eddies. 
This fight exalted the confidence of Porus, who had 
witnessed from the bank all its vicissitudes. 

Alexander, perplexed how to cross the river, at last 
devised a plan for duping the enemy. In the river lay 
an island larger than the rest, wooded and suitable for 
concealing an ambuscade. A deep hollow, moreover, 
which lay not far from the bank in his own occupation, 
was capable of hiding not only foot-soldiers but mounted 
cavalry. To divert, therefore, the attention of the enemy 
from a place possessing such advantages, he ordered 
Ptolemy with all his squadrons of horse to ride up and 
down at a distance from the island in view of the enemy, 
and now and then to alarm the Indians by shouting, as if 
he meant to make the passage of the river. 1 For several 
days Ptolemy repeated this feint, and thus obliged Porus 
to concentrate his troops at the point which he pretended 
to threaten. 



1 It was Krateros, however, and faced the camp of Pdros. Curtius 
not Ptolemy, who was left in charge has therefore here made a mistake, 
of the division of the army which 



20 6 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

The island was now beyond view of the enemy. 1 
Alexander then gave orders that his own tent should be 
pitched on a part of the bank looking the other way, 
that the guard of honour which usually attended him 
should be posted before it, and that all the pageantry of 
royal state should be paraded before the eyes of the 
enemy on purpose to deceive them. He besides re- 
quested Attalus, who was about his own age, and not 
unlike him in form and feature, especially when seen 
from a distance, to wear the royal mantle, and so make 
it appear as if the king in person was guarding that 
part of the bank without any intention of crossing the 
river. The state of the weather at first hindered, but 
afterwards favoured, the execution of this design, fortune 
making even untoward circumstances turn out to his 
ultimate advantage. For when the enemy was busy 
watching the troops under Ptolemy which occupied the 
bank lower down, and Alexander with the rest of his 
forces was making ready to cross the river and reach 
the land over against the island already mentioned, a 
storm poured down torrents of rain, against which even 
those under cover could scarcely protect themselves. 
The soldiers, overcome by the fury of the elements, 
deserted the boats and ships, and fled back for safety to 
land, but the din occasioned by their hurry and confusion 
could not be heard by the enemy amid the roar of the 
tempest. All of a sudden the rain then ceased, but 
clouds so dense overspread the sky that they hid the 
light, and made it scarcely possible for men conversing 
together to see each other's faces. 

Any other leader but Alexander would have been 
appalled by the darkness drawn over the face of heaven 
just when he was starting on a voyage across an unknown 
river, with the enemy perhaps guarding the very bank to 

1 That is, Turos had been enticed other island on which the Mace- 
down the bank so far that the island donians landed under the erroneous 
which lay where the passage was impression that they had gained the 
really to be made was no longer bank of the river, and Diodoros is 
visible. Curtius says nothing of the equally silent. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 207 

which his men were blindly and imprudently directing 
their course. But the king deriving glory from danger 
and regarding the darkness which terrified others as his 
opportunity, gave the signal that all should embark in 
silence, and ordered that the galley which carried himself 
should be the first to be run aground on the other side. 
The bank, however, towards which they steered was not 
occupied by the enemy, for Porus was in fact still intently 
watching Ptolemy only. Hence all the ships made the 
passage in safety except just one, which stuck on a rock 
whither it had been driven by the wind. Alexander 
then ordered the soldiers to take their arms and to fall 
into their ranks. 



Chapter XIV. — Battle with Porus on the left bank of the 
Hydaspes — Porus being defeated surrenders 

He was already in full march at the head of his army, 
which he had divided into two columns, when the tidings 
reached Porus that the bank was occupied by a military 
force, and that the crisis of his fortunes was now imminent. 
In keeping with the infirmity of our nature, which makes 
us ever hope the best, he at first indulged the belief that 
this was his ally Abisares come to help him in the war as 
had been agreed upon. But soon after, when the sky 
had become clearer, and showed the ranks to be those of 
the enemy, he sent 100 chariots and 4000 horse to 
obstruct their advance. The command of this detach- 
ment he gave to his brother Hages. 1 Its main strength 
lay in the chariots, each of which was drawn by four 
horses and carried six men, of whom two were shield- 
bearers, two, archers posted on each side of the chariot, 
and the other two, charioteers, as well as men-at-arms, 
for when the fighting was at close-quarters they dropped 
the reins and hurled dart after dart against the enemy. 

But on this particular day these chariots proved to be 

1 According to Arrian this force was commanded by the son of Poros. 



2 o8 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

scarcely of any service, for the storm of rain, which, as 
already said, was of extraordinary violence, had made 
the ground slippery, and unfit for horses to ride over, 
while the chariots kept sticking in the muddy sloughs 
formed by the rain, and proved almost immovable from 
their great weight. Alexander, on the other hand, charged 
with the utmost vigour, because his troops were lightly 
armed and unencumbered. The Scythians and Dahae 
first of all attacked the Indians, and then the king 
launched Perdiccas with his horse upon their right wing. 
The fighting had now become hot everywhere, when the 
drivers of the chariots rode at full speed into the midst of 
the battle, thinking they could thus most effectively 
succour their friends. It would be hard to say which 
side suffered most from this charge, for the Macedonian 
foot-soldiers, who were exposed to the first shock of the 
onset, were trampled down, while the charioteers were 
hurled from their seats, when the chariots in rushing into 
action jolted over broken and slippery ground. Some 
again of the horses took fright and precipitated the 
carriages not only into the sloughs and pools of water, 
but even into the river itself. 

A few which were driven off the field by the darts of 
the enemy made their way to Poms, who was making 
most energetic preparations for the contest. As soon as 
he saw his chariots scattered amid his ranks, and wan- 
dering about without their drivers, he distributed his 
elephants to his friends who were nearest him. Behind 
them he had posted the infantry and the archers and the 
men who beat the drums, the instruments which the 
Indians use instead of trumpets to produce their war 
music. The rattle of these instruments does not in the 
least alarm the elephants, their ears, through long famili- 
arity, being deadened to the sound. An image of 
Hercules was borne in front of the line of infantry, and 
this acted as the strongest of all incentives to make the 
soldiers fight well. To desert the bearers of this image 
was reckoned a disgraceful military offence, and they had 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 209 

even ordained death as a penalty for those who failed to 
bring it back from the battlefield, for the dread which the 
Indians had conceived for the god when he was their 
enemy had been toned down to a feeling of religious awe 
and veneration. 

The sight not only of the huge beasts, but even of 
Porus himself, made the Macedonians pause for a time, 
for the beasts, which had been placed at intervals between 
the armed ranks, presented, when seen from a distance, 
the appearance of towers, and Porus himself not only sur- 
passed the standard of height to which we conceive the 
human figure to be limited, but, besides this, the elephant 
on which he was mounted seemed to add to his propor- 
tions, for it towered over all the other elephants even as 
Porus himself stood taller than other men. Hence Alex- 
ander, after attentively viewing the king and the army of 
the Indians, remarked to those near him, " I see at last a 
danger that matches my courage. It is at once with 
wild beasts and men of uncommon mettle that the con- 
test now lies." Then turning to Coenus, " When I," he 
said, "along with Ptolemy, Perdiccas, and Hephaestion, 
have fallen upon the enemy's left wing, and you see me 
in the heat of the conflict, do you then advance the right 
wing, 1 and charge the enemy when their ranks begin to 
waver. And you, sirs," he added, turning to Antigenes, 
Leonnatus, and Tauron, " must bear down upon their 
centre, and press them hard in front. The formidable 
length and strength of our pikes will never be so useful 
as when they are directed against these huge beasts and 
their drivers. Hurl, then, their riders to the ground, and 
stab the beasts themselves. Their assistance is not of a kind 
to be depended on, and they may do their own side more 
damage than ours, for they are driven against the enemy by 
constraint, while terror turns them against their own ranks." 

Having spoken thus he was the first to put spurs to 
his horse. And now, as had been arranged, Coenus, 
upon seeing that Alexander was at close-quarters with 

1 See Note Y, Battle with Poros. 
P 



2io THE INVASION OF INDIA 

the enemy, threw his cavalry with great fury upon their 
left wing. The phalanx besides, at the first onset, broke 
through the centre of the Indians. But Porus ordered his 
elephants to be driven into action where he had seen 
cavalry charging his ranks. The slow-footed unwieldy 
animals, however, were unfitted to cope with the rapid 
movements of horses, and the barbarians were besides 
unable to use even their arrows. These weapons were 
really so long and heavy that the archers could not 
readily adjust them on the string unless by first resting 
their bow upon the ground. Then, as the ground was 
slippery and hindered their efforts, the enemy had time 
to charge them before they could deliver their blows. 




Fig. ii. — Indian Bowman. 

The king's authority was in these circumstances un- 
heeded, and, as usually happens when the ranks are 
broken, and fear begins to dictate orders more peremp- 
torily than the general himself, as many took the com- 
mand upon themselves as there were scattered bodies of 
troops. Some proposed that these bodies should unite, 
others that they should form separate detachments, some 
that they should wait to be attacked, others that they 
should wheel round and charge the enemy in the rear. 
No common plan of action was after all concerted. 
Porus, however, with a few friends in whom the sense of 
honour was stronger than fear, rallied his scattered forces, 
and marching in front of his line advanced against the 
enemy with the elephants. These animals inspired 
great terror, and their strange dissonant cries frightened 
not only the horses, which shy at everything, but the men 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 211 

also, and disordered the ranks, so that those who just 
before were victorious began now to look round them for 
a place to which they could flee. Alexander thereupon 
despatched against the elephants the lightly-armed Agri- 
anians and the Thracians, troops more serviceable in 
skirmishing than in close combat. They assailed the 
elephants and their drivers with a furious storm of mis- 
siles, and the phalanx, on seeing the resulting terror and 
confusion, steadily pressed forward. 

Some, however, by pursuing too eagerly, so irritated 
the animals with wounds that they turned their rage upon 
them, and they were in consequence trampled to death 
under their feet, thus warning others to attack them with 
greater caution. The most dismal of all sights was when 
the elephants would, with their trunks, grasp the men, 
arms and all, and hoisting them above their heads, 
deliver them over into the hands of their drivers. Thus 
the battle was doubtful, the Macedonians sometimes pur- 
suing and sometimes fleeing from the elephants, so that 
the struggle was prolonged till the day was far spent. 
Then they began to hack the feet of the beasts with axes 
which they had prepared for the purpose, having besides 
a kind of sword somewhat curved like a scythe, and called 
a chopper, wherewith they aimed at their trunks. In 
fact, their fear of the animals led them not only to leave 
no means untried for killing them, but even for killing 
them with unheard-of forms of cruelty. 

Hence the elephants, being at last spent with wounds, 
spread havoc among their own ranks, and threw their 
drivers to the ground, who were then trampled to death 
by their own beasts. They were therefore driven from 
the field of battle like a flock of sheep, as they were mad- 
dened with terror rather than vicious. Porus, meanwhile, 
being left in the lurch by the majority of his men, began 
to hurl from his elephant the darts with which he had 
beforehand provided himself, and while many were 
wounded from afar by his shot he was himself exposed 
as a butt for blows from every quarter. He had already 



2i2 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

received nine wounds before and behind, and became so 
faint from the great loss of blood that the darts were 
dropped rather than flung from his feeble hands. But his 
elephant, waxing furious though not yet wounded, kept 
charging the ranks of the enemy until the driver, per- 
ceiving the king's condition — his limbs failing him, his 
weapons dropping from his grasp, and his consciousness 
almost gone — turned the beast round and fled. 

Alexander pursued, but his horse being pierced with 
many wounds fainted under him, and sank to the ground, 
laying the king down gently rather than throwing him 
from his seat. 1 The necessity of changing his horse 
retarded of course his pursuit. In the meantime the 
brother of Taxiles, the Indian King whom Alexander 
had sent on before, advised Porus not to persist in hold- 
ing out to the last extremity, but to surrender himself to 
the conqueror. 2 Porus, however, though his strength was 
exhausted, and his blood nearly spent, yet roused himself 
at the well-known voice, and said, " I recognise the brother 
of Taxiles, who gave up his throne and kingdom." 
Therewith he flung at him the one dart that had not 
slipped from his grasp, and flung it too with such force 
that it pierced right through his back to his chest. 8 

1 Boukephalos was no doubt the himself amid a battalion of the enemy, 

horse to which Curtius here refers, where he was on all sides assailed 

but according to some accounts that with darts, his horse was stabbed with 

famous steed was not in the battle. deep wounds in the neck and sides. 

Curtius here follows Chares, as the Ready to expire, and drained of nearly 

following passage quoted from this all his blood, he nevertheless bore 

writer by Aulus Gellius (A'oct. Attic. back the king from the midst of his 

v. 2) will show : " The horse of King foes at a most rapid pace ; and when 

Alexander was both by his head and he had conveyed him beyond reach of 

by his name Bucephalus {i.e. ox-head). spears, he straightway dropped down, 

Cares has stated that he was bought and having no further fear for his 

for thirteen talents, and presented to master's safety, he breathed his last 

King Philip. . . . Regarding this as if w ith the consolation of human 

horse it seems worth recording that sensibility. Then King Alexander 

when caparisoned and armed for battle having gained the victory in this war, 

he would not suffer himself to be built a town on this spot, and in 

mounted by any one but the king. honour of his horse called it Buce- 

It is also told of this horse that in phalon." 

the Indian war when Alexander, - Arrian says that the first messen- 

mounted upon him, and performing ger sent was Taxiles himself. > 

noble deeds of bravery, had with too 3 According to Arrian, Taxiles 

little heed for his own safety entangled escaped by a hasty flight. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 213 

Having roused himself to this last effort of valour, he 
began to flee faster than before, but his elephant, which 
had by this time received many wounds, was now, like 
himself, quite exhausted, so that he stopped the flight, 
and made head against the pursuers with his remaining 
infantry. 

Alexander had now come up, and knowing how 
obstinate Porus was, forbade quarter to be given to those 
who resisted. 1 The infantry therefore, and Porus himself, 
were assailed with darts from all points, and as he could 
no longer bear up against them he began to slip from his 
elephant. The Indian driver, thinking the king wished 
to alight, made the elephant kneel down in the usual 
manner. On seeing this the other elephants also knelt 
down, for they had been trained to lower themselves 
when the royal elephant did so. Porus and his men were 
thus placed entirely at the mercy of the conqueror. Alex- 
ander, supposing that he was dead, ordered his body to 
be stripped, 2 and men then ran forward to take off his 
breastplate and robes, when the elephant turned upon 
them in defence of its master, and lifting him up placed 
him once more on its back. 

Upon this the animal was on all sides overwhelmed 
with darts, and when it was stabbed to death, Porus was 
placed upon a waggon. But the king perceiving him to 
lift up his eyes, forgot all animosity, and being deeply 
moved with pity, said to him, " What the plague ! what 
madness induced you to try the fortune of war with me, 
of whose exploits you have heard the fame, especially 
when in Taxiles you had a near example of my clemency 
to those who submit to me ? " He answered thus : 
" Since you propose a question, I shall answer with the 
freedom which you grant by asking it. I used to think 
there was no one braver than myself, for I knew my own 
strength, but had not yet experienced thine. The result 

1 Diodfiros states, on the con- 2 This is scarcely probable. The 

trary, that Alexander checked the incident is mentioned by no other 
slaughter. writer. 



2i 4 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

of the war has taught me that you are the braver man, 
but even in ranking next to you, I consider myself to be 
highly fortunate." Being asked again how he thought the 
victor should treat him, " in accordance," he replied, " with 
the lesson which this day teaches — a day in which you 
have witnessed how readily prosperity can be blasted." 

By giving this admonition he gained more than if he 
had resorted to entreaty, for Alexander, in consideration 
of the greatness of his courage which scorned all fear, 
and which adversity could not break down, extended pity 
to his misfortunes and honour to his merits. 1 He 
ordered his wounds to be as carefully attended to as if he 
had fought in his service, and when he had recovered 
strength, he admitted him into the number of his friends, 
and soon after presented him with a larger kingdom 
than that which he had. 2 And in truth his nature had 
no more essential or more permanent quality than a high 
respect for true merit and renown ; but he estimated 
more candidly and impartially glory in an enemy than 
in a subject. In fact, he thought that the fabric of his 
fame might be pulled down by his own people, while it 
could but receive enhanced lustre the greater those were 
whom he vanquished. 

1 Curtius has here marred with his both in his Life of Alexander and in 

rhetoric and moral reflections the his De Ira Cohibeiida (c 9)1 nas 

simple and dignified answer of Poros, stated the reply of Poros in the same 

that he wished to be treated like a terms as Arrian. 

king. Lucan similarly has dilated - Cicero (fro Marcello) extols 

into some twenty lines of rhetoric Alexander in the highest terms for 

Caesar's famous words to the boatmen acting thus towards his vanquished 

in the storm : ' ' Fear not, you carry enemy ; and Seneca in his De Clt- 

Caesar and his fortunes." Plutarch, mcntia follows in a similar strain. 



Ninth Book 

Chapter I. — Alexander s speech to his soldiers after the 
victory — Abisares sends him an embassy 

ALEXANDER rejoicing in a victory so memorable, which 
led him to believe that the East to its utmost limits had 
been opened up to his arms, sacrificed to the sun, 1 and 
having also summoned the soldiers to a general meeting, 
he praised them for their services, that they might with 
the greater alacrity undertake the wars that yet remained. 
He pointed out to them that all power of opposition on 
the part of the Indians had been quite overthrown in the 
battle just fought. What now remained for them was a 
noble spoil. The much -rumoured riches of the East 
abounded in those very regions, to which their steps 
were now bent. The spoils accordingly which they had 
taken from the Persians had now become cheap and 
common. They were going to fill with pearls, precious 
stones, gold, and ivory, not only their private abodes, but 
all Macedonia and Greece. The soldiers who coveted 
money as well as glory, and who had never known his 
promises to fail, on hearing all this, readily placed their 
services at his command. He sent them away full of good 
hope, and ordered ships to be built in order that when he 

1 Philostratos, in his life of Apol- altars which he reared on the banks 

lonios of Tyana, states that Alexander of the Hyphasis to mark the limits of 

dedicated likewise to the sun one of his advance. As the same author 

the elephants of Poros, the first of states that Apollonios saw Ajax still 

them that deserted to his side, and alive at Taxila some 370 years later, 

which he called Ajax, and also the his veracity may be suspected. 



216 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

had overrun all Asia, he might be able to visit the sea 
which formed the boundary of the world. 

In the neighbouring mountains was abundance of 
timber fit for building ships, and the men in hewing 
down the trees came upon serpents of most extraordinary 
size. 1 There they also found the rhinoceros, an animal 
rarely met with elsewhere. This is not the name it bears 
among the Indians, but one given it by the Greeks, who 
were ignorant of the speech of the country. 2 The king 
having built two cities, one on each side of the river 
which he had lately crossed, presented each of the 
generals with a crown, in addition to a thousand pieces 
of gold. Others also received rewards in accordance 
either with the place which they held in his friendship, 
or the value of the services which they had rendered. 
Abisares, who had sent envoys to Alexander before the 
battle with Porus had come off, now sent others to assure 
him that he was ready to do whatever he commanded, 
provided only he was not obliged to surrender his 
person ; for he could neither live, he said, without 
having the power of a king, nor have that power if he 
were to be kept in captivity. Alexander bade them tell 
their master that if he grudged to come to Alexander, 
Alexander would go to him. 



Chapter I. Continued. — Alexander advancing farther into the 
interior of India, passes through forests and deserts- 
Crosses the Hydraotes — Besieges and captures Sangcda, 
and enters the kingdom of Sopithes, who receives him 
with great hospitality and shozes him a dog ami Hon 
fight 

After crossing a river some distance farther on, he 
advanced into the interior parts of India. The forests 
there extended over an almost boundless tract of country, 

1 See Note Z, Indian Serpents. occros is Ganda, also Gandaka and 

• The Sanskrit name of the rhin- Gana'din-a. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 217 

and abounded with umbrageous trees of stateliest growth, 
that rose to an extraordinary height. Numerous branches, 
which for size equalled the trunk of ordinary trees, would 
bend down to the earth, and then shoot straight up again 
at the point where they bent upward, so that they had 
more the appearance of a tree growing from its own root 
than of a bough branching out from its stem. 1 The climate 
is salubrious, for the dense shade mitigates the violence of 
the heat, and copious springs supply the land with abund- 
ance of water. But here, also, were multitudes of serpents, 
the scales of which glittered like gold. The poison of 
these is deadlier than any other, since their bite was wont 
to prove instantly fatal, until a proper antidote was 
pointed out by the natives. 2 From thence they passed 
through deserts to the river Hyardtis, the banks of which 
were covered with a dense forest, abounding with trees not 
elsewhere seen, and filled with wild peacocks. 3 Decamp- 
ing hence, he came to a town that lay not far off. This 
he captured by a general attack all round the walls, and 
having received hostages, imposed a tribute upon the 
inhabitants. 4 He came next to a great city — great at 
least for that region — and found it not only encompassed 
with a wall, but further defended by a morass. 5 

The barbarians nevertheless sallied out to give battle, 

1 This is the funs Indica, commonly " Where as to shame the temples decked 

called the banyan-tree, because of the ?/ skm ° f «"'¥? architect, _ 

r „ , J , I . t , w . Nature herself, it seems, would raise 

frequent use made of its shelter by A minster t0 her Maker's praise." 

traders who dealt in grain, called in 

India Banyans. Strabo (XV. i. 21) 2 Ailianos (H. A. xii. 32) says that 

describes this tree from Onesikritos, while the Indians knew the proper 

who saw it growing in the country of antidote against the bites of each kind 

Mousikanos. Pliny also (N. H. xii. of serpent, none of the Greek physi- 

11) describes the tree and its fruit, cians had discovered any such anti- 

adding that it grows chiefly in dote. See Note Z, Indian Serpents, 
the neighbourhood of the Acesines 3 See Note Aa, Indian Peacocks. 

(Chendb); see also Theophrastos, De " This must be the town which 

Plantis, iv. 5, and Arrian's Indika, Arrian calls Pimprama, distant a 

c 11. Several English poets have day's march from Sangala. The 

made it the subject of their verse — accounts of the two historians are at 

Ben Jonson, Milton, Tickell, and variance, however, since Arrian says 

Southey. Its stately stems rise in that the place surrendered without 

solemn grandeur like the basaltic resistance. 

pillars of Fingal's Cave, and with the 5 This place was Sangala, for 

over-arching boughs form a vast and which see Note M. 
wondrous dome — 



2I 8 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

taking their waggons with them, which they fastened 
together each to each. For weapons of offence some had 
pikes and others axes, and they were in the habit of 
leaping nimbly from waggon to waggon if they saw their 
friends hard pressed and wished to help them. This mode 
of fighting being quite new to the Macedonians, at first 
alarmed them, 1 since they were wounded by enemies 
beyond their reach, but coming afterwards to look with 
contempt upon a force so undisciplined, they completely 
surrounded the waggons and began stabbing all the men 
that offered resistance. The king then commanded the 
cords which fastened the waggons together to be cut 2 that 
it might be easier for the soldiers to beset each waggon 
separately. The enemy after a loss of 8000 men withdrew 
into the town. 3 Next day the walls were escaladed all 
round and captured. A few were indebted for their safety 
to their swiftness of foot. Those who swam across the 
sheet of water when they saw the city was sacked, carried 
great consternation to the neighbouring towns, where they 
reported that an invincible army, one of gods assuredly, 
had arrived in the country. 

Alexander having sent Perdiccas with a body of light 
troops to ravage the country, and given another detach- 
ment to Eumenes to be employed in bringing the barbarians 
to submission, marched himself with the rest of the army 
against a strong city within which the inhabitants of some 
other cities had taken refuge. The citizens sent deputies 
to appease the king's anger, but continued all the same to 
make warlike preparations. A dissension, it seems, had 
arisen among them and divided their counsels, some pre- 

1 Caesar's men were similarly ring in the fashion of a camp, and thus 
alarmed on seeing for the first time keep themselves safe from surprise 
the war chariots of the Britons : per- during the night." 

turbatis nostris novitate pugnae {Bell. 3 " It is impossible to compare the 

Gall. iv. 34). See also Livy, a. 2S. numbers given by Curtius and Arrian, 

2 Arrian mentions gaps between as neither gives the total of killed, 
the waggons, but does not state that and the details of the numbers who 
they were fastened together. Vege- fell in the separate operations of the 
tius (De re Militari, iii. 10), how- siege are not so stated as to admit 
ever, observes : " All barbarians of comparison " {Alex, in India, p. 
fasten their chariots together in a 130). 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 219 

ferring to submit to the last extremities rather than sur- 
render, others thinking that resistance on their part would 
be altogether futile. But as no consultation was held in 
common, those who were bent on surrendering threw open 
the gates and admitted the enemy. Alexander would 
have been justified in making the advocates of resistance 
feel his displeasure, but he nevertheless pardoned them all 
without exception, and after taking hostages marched 
forward to the next city. As the hostages were led in 
the van of the army, the defenders on the wall recognised 
them to be their own countrymen, and invited them to a 
conference. Here they were prevailed on to surrender, 
when they were informed of the king's clemency to the 
submissive, and his severity if opposed. In a similar way 
he gained over other towns, and placed them under his 
protection. 

They entered next the dominions of King Sopithes, 1 
whose nation in the opinion of the barbarians excels 
in wisdom, and lives under good laws and customs. 
Here they do not acknowledge and rear children 
according to the will of the parents, but as the officers 
entrusted with the medical inspection of infants may 
direct, for if they have remarked anything deformed or 
defective in the limbs of a child they order it to be 
killed. 2 In contracting marriages they do not seek an 
alliance with high birth, but make their choice by the 
looks, for beauty in the children is a quality highly 
appreciated. 

Alexander had brought up his army before the capital 
of this nation where Sopithes was himself resident. The 
gates were shut, but as no men-at-arms showed themselves 
either on the walls or towers, the Macedonians were in 
doubt whether the inhabitants had deserted the city, or 
were hiding themselves to fall upon the enemy by surprise. 

a 1 The better form of the name is 2 According to Strabo the inspec- 

SSphytes, which properly transliter- tion was made when the child was two 

ates the Sanskrit original Saubhutu, months old. He notices that the prac- 

but see Biographical Appendix, s.v. tice of widow-burning was known here. 
Sophytes. 



220 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

The gate, however, was on a sudden thrown open, and the 
Indian king with two grown-up sons issued from it to meet 
Alexander. He was distinguished above all the other 
barbarians by his tall and handsome figure. His royal 
robe, which flowed down to his very feet, was all inwrought 
with gold and purple. His sandals were of gold and 
studded with precious stones, and even his arms and 
wrists were curiously adorned with pearls. At his ears 
he wore pendants of precious stones which from their 
lustre and magnitude were of an inestimable value. His 
sceptre too was made of gold and set with beryls, 1 and 
this he delivered up to Alexander with an expression of 
his wish that it might bring him good luck, and be accepted 
as a token that he surrendered into his hands his children 
and his kingdom. 

His country possesses a noble breed of dogs, used for 
hunting, and said to refrain from barking when they sight 
their game which is chiefly the lion. 2 Sopithes wishing to 
show Alexander the strength and mettle of these dogs, 
caused a very large lion to be placed within an enclosure 
where four dogs in all were let loose upon him. The dogs 
at once fastened upon the wild beast, when one of the 
huntsmen who was accustomed to work of this kind tried 
to pull away by the leg one of the dogs which with the 
others had seized the lion, and when the limb would not 
come away, cut it off with a knife. The dog could not 
even by this means be forced to let go his hold, and so 
the man proceeded to cut him in another place, and finding 
him still clutching the lion as tenaciously as before, he con- 
tinued cutting away with his knife one part of him after 
another. The brave dog, however, even in dying kept his 
fangs fixed in the lion's flesh ; so great is the eagerness for 

1 "The Indians," says Solinus tion, slates (xxxvii. 5) that beryls 
(c- 55)> "rub down the beryl into wore seldom found elsewhere than in 
hexagonal forms in order to impart India, and that the Indians had dis- 
vigour to the dull tameness of the covered how to make counterfeit 
colour by the reflection from the «nns and especially beryls by stain- 
angles. Of the beryl the varieties ing crystal, 
arc manifold." Pliny, from whom '■> See Note B*, Indian Dogs. 
Solinus no doubt drew this informa- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 221 

hunting which nature has implanted in these animals, as 
testified by the accounts transmitted to us. 

I must observe, however, that I copy from preceding 
writers more than I myself believe, for I neither wish to 
guarantee statements of the truth of which I am doubtful, 
nor yet to suppress what I find recorded. Alexander 
therefore leaving Sopithes in possession of his kingdom, 
advanced to the river Hyphasis, where he was rejoined by 
Hephaestion who had subdued a district situated in a 
different direction. Phegeus, 1 who was king of the nearest 
nation, having beforehand ordered his subjects to attend 
to the cultivation of their fields according to their wont, 
went forth to meet Alexander with presents and assurances 
that whatever he commanded he would not fail to perform. 



Chapter II. — Alexander obtains information about the 
Ganges and the strength of the army kept by Agrammes, 
king of the Prasians — His speech to the soldiers to 
induce them to advance to the Ganges 

The king made a halt of two days with this prince, 
designing on the third day to cross the river, the passage 
of which was difficult, not only from its great breadth, 
but also because its channel was obstructed with rocks. 
Having therefore requested Phegeus to tell him what he 
wanted to know, he learned the following particulars : 
Beyond the river lay extensive deserts which it would 
take eleven days to traverse. 2 Next came the Ganges, 
the largest river in all India, the farther bank of which 
was inhabited by two nations, the Gangaridae and the 
Prasii, 3 whose king Agrammes * kept in the field for 

1 The ordinary and correct read- places it is altogether uninhabited ; 
ing is not Phegeus, as in the text from in others villages and patches of culti- 
which I translate, but Phegelas, which vation are found thinly scattered, 
transliterates the Sanskrit Bhagala. On the east it gradually gives way to 
See Biog. Appendix, s.v. Phegelas. the fertile parts of India. 

2 A sandy desert stretches from 3 For Gangaridae see Note Cc, 
the southern borders of the Panjab and for Prasii, Note T>d. The 
almost to the Gulf of Kachh. The common reading of this name in the 
breadth of this desert from east to editions of Curtius is Pharasii. 

west is about 400 miles. In some 4 The name as given here seems 



222 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

guarding the approaches to his country 20,000 cavalry 
and 200,000 infantry, besides 2000 four-horsed chariots, 
and, what was the most formidable force of all, a troop of 
elephants which he said ran up to the number of 3000. 

All this seemed to the king to be incredible, and he 
therefore asked Porus, who happened to be in attendance, 
whether the account was true. He assured Alexander in 
reply that, as far as the strength of the nation and 
kingdom was concerned, there was no exaggeration in the 
reports, but that the present king was not merely a man 
originally of no distinction, but even of the very meanest 
condition. His father was in fact a barber, scarcely 
staving off hunger by his daily earnings, but who, from 
his being not uncomely in person, had gained the affections 
of the queen, and was by her influence advanced to too 
near a place in the confidence of the reigning monarch. 
Afterwards, however, he treacherously murdered his sover- 
eign ; and then, under the pretence of acting as guardian 
to the royal children, usurped the supreme authority, 
and having put the young princes to death begot the 
present king, who was detested and held cheap by his 
subjects, as he rather took after his father than conducted 
himself as the occupant of a throne. 

The attestation of Porus to the truth of what he had 
heard made the king anxious on manifold grounds ; for 
while he thought contemptuously of the men and elephants 
that would oppose him, he dreaded the difficult nature of 
the country that lay before him, and in particular, the 
impetuous rapidity of the rivers. The task seemed 
hard indeed, to follow up and unearth men removed 
almost to the uttermost bounds of the world. On the 
other hand, his avidity of glory and his insatiable ambition 
forbade him to think that any place was so far distant or 
inaccessible as to be beyond his reach. He did indeed 
sometimes doubt whether the Macedonians who had 

less correct than the form in Diod. ing «<w-.W. See Biog. Appendix, 
Kami mines, which can be referred to s.vv. Xandrames and Sandrokottos. 
the Indian word Chan, /ramus, mean- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 223 

traversed all those broad lands and grown old in battle- 
fields and camps, would be willing to follow him through 
obstructing rivers and the many other difficulties which 
nature would oppose to their advance. Overflowing and 
laden with booty, they would rather, he judged, enjoy 
what they had won than wear themselves out in getting 
more. They could not of course be of the same mind as 
himself, for while he had grasped the conception of a 
world-wide empire, and stood as yet but on the threshold 
of his labours, they were now worn out with toil, and 
longed for the time when, all their dangers being at length 
ended, they might enjoy their latest winnings. In the 
end ambition carried the day against reason ; and, having 
summoned a meeting of the soldiers, he addressed them 
very much to this effect : 

" I am not ignorant, soldiers, that during these last 
days the natives of this country have been spreading all 
sorts of rumours designed expressly to work upon your 
fears ; but the falsehood of those who invent such lies is 
nothing new in your experience. The Persians in this 
sort of way sought to terrify you with the gates of Cilicia, 
with the plains of Mesopotamia, with the Tigris and 
Euphrates, and yet this river you crossed by a ford, and 
that by means of a bridge. Fame is never brought to a 
clearness in which facts can be seen as they are. They 
are all magnified when she transmits them. Even our 
own glory, though resting on a solid basis, is more in- 
debted for its greatness to rumour than to reality. Who 
but till the other day believed that it was possible for us 
to bear the shock of those monstrous beasts that looked 
like so many ramparts, or that we could have passed the 
Hydaspes, or conquered other difficulties which after all 
were more formidable to hear of than they proved 
to be in actual experience. By my troth we had long 
ago fled from Asia could fables have been able to 
scare us. 

"Can you suppose that the herds of elephants are 
greater than of other cattle when the animal is known to 



224 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

be rare, hard to be caught, and harder still to tame? 1 It 
is the same spirit of falsehood which magnifies the number 
of horse and foot possessed by the enemy; and with respect 
to the river, why, the wider it spreads the liker it becomes 
to a placid pool. Rivers, as you know, that are confined 
between narrow banks and choked by narrow channels 
flow with torrent speed, while on the other hand the 
current slackens as the channel widens out. Besides, all 
the danger is at the bank where the enemy waits to 
receive us as we disembark ; so that, be the breadth of 
the river what it may, the danger is all the same when we 
are in the act of landing. But let us suppose that these 
stories are all true, is it then, I ask, the monstrous size of 
the elephants or the number of the enemy that you dread ? 
As for the elephants, we had an example of them before 
our eyes in the late battle when they charged more 
furiously upon their own ranks than upon ours, and when 
their vast bodies were cut and mangled by our bills and 
axes. What matters it then whether they be the same 
number as Porus had, or be 3000, when we see that if 
one or two of them be wounded, the rest swerve aside 
and take to flight. Then again, if it be no easy task 
to manage but a few of them, surely when so many 
thousands of them are crowded together, they cannot 
but hamper each other when their huge unwieldy bodies 
want room either to stand or run. For myself, I have 
such a poor opinion of the animals that, though I had 
them, I did not bring them into the field, being fully con- 
vinced they occasion more danger to their own side than 
to the enemy. 

"But it is the number, perhaps, of the horse and 
foot that excites your fears ! for you have been wont, you 
know, to fight only against small numbers, and will now 
for the first time have to withstand undisciplined multi- 

1 On the contrary, elephants are with only slight variations. See also 

easy to tame. Arrian in his Indica Pliny, viii, 8-10; Diod6ros, iii. 26; 

(c. 13, 14) has described the manner Ailinnos, viii. 10 and 15, and x. 10; 

both of trapping and taming them. and Tzetzes, Chiliad, iv. 122. 
The same methods are still employed, 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 225 

tudes ! The river Granicus is a witness of the courage of 
the Macedonians unconquered in fighting against odds j 1 
so too is Cilicia deluged with the blood of the Persians, 
and Arbela, where the plains are strewn with the bones of 
your vanquished foes. It is too late, now that you have 
depopulated Asia by your victories, to begin counting the 
enemy's legions. When we were crossing the Hellespont, 
it was then we should have thought about the smallness of 
our numbers, for now Scythians follow us, Bactrian troops 
are here to assist us, Dahans and Sogdians are serving in 
our ranks. But it is not in such a throng I put my trust. 
It is to your hands, Macedonians, I look. It is your 
valour I take as the gage and surety of the deeds I mean 
to perform. 

" As long as it is with you I shall stand in battle, I 
count not the number either of my own or the enemy's 
army. Do ye only, I entreat, keep your minds full of 
alacrity and confidence. We are not standing on the 
threshold of our enterprise and our labours, but at their 
very close. We have already reached the sunrise and 
the ocean, and unless your sloth and cowardice prevent, 
we shall thence return in triumph to our native land, 
having conquered the earth to its remotest bounds. Act 
not then like foolish husbandmen who, when their crops 
are ripe, loose them out of hand from sheer indolence to 
gather them. The prizes before you are greater than the 
risks, for the country to be invaded not only teems with 
wealth, but is at the same time feebly defended. So 
then I lead you not so much to glory as to plunder. 
You have earned the right to carry back to your own 
country the riches which that sea casts upon its shores ; 
and it would ill become you if through fear you should 
leave anything unattempted or unperformed. I conjure 
you then by that glory of yours whereby ye soar above 
the topmost pinnacle of human greatness — I beseech you 

1 There was no great disparity of 35,000 on Alexander's side and 40,000 
numbers in the battle of the Granikos on the other, 
between the Greeks and Persians, 



226 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

by my services unto you, and yours unto me (a strife in 
which we still contend unconquered), that ye desert not 
your foster-son, your fellow-soldier, not to say your king, 
just at the moment when he is approaching the limits of 
the inhabited world. 

" All things else you have done at my orders — for this 
one thing I shall hold myself to be your debtor. I, who 
never ordered you upon any service in which I did not 
place myself in the fore-front of the danger, I who have 
often with mine own buckler covered you in battle, now 
entreat you not to shatter the palm which is already 
in my grasp, and by which, if I may so speak without 
incurring the ill-will of heaven, I shall become the equal 
of Hercules and Father Bacchus. Grant this to my 
entreaties, and break at last your obstinate silence. 
Where is that familiar shout, the wonted token of your 
alacrity ? Where are the cheerful looks of my Mace- 
donians ? I do not recognise you, soldiers, and, methinks, 
I seem not to be recognised by you. I have all along 
been knocking at deaf ears. I am trying to rouse hearts 
that are disloyal and crushed with craven fears." 

When the soldiers, with their heads bent earthwards, 
still suppressed what they felt, " I must," he said, " have 
inadvertently given you some offence that you will not 
even look at me. Methinks I am in a solitude. No one 
answers me ; no one so much as says me nay. Is it 
to strangers I am speaking? Am I claiming anything 
unreasonable ? Why, it is your glory and your greatness 
we are asserting. Where are those whom but the other 
day I saw eagerly striving which should have the pre- 
rogative of receiving the person of their wounded king? 
I am deserted, forsaken, surrendered into the hands of the 
enemy. But I shall still persist in going forward, even 
though I should march alone. Expose me then to the 
dangers of rivers, to the rage of elephants, and to those 
nations whose very names fill you with terror. I shall 
find men that will follow me though I be deserted by 
you. The Scythians and Bactrians, once our foemen, 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 227 

but now our soldiers — these will still be with me. 1 Let 
me tell you, I had die rather than be a commander on 
sufferance. Begone then to your homes, and go triumph- 
ing because ye have forsaken your king ! 2 For my part, 
I shall here find a place, either for the victory of which 
you despair, or for an honourable death." 



Chapter III. — Speech of Coenus on behalf of the army — 
Alexander's displeasure at the refusal of the soldiers 
to advance — He resolves to return — Raises altars as 
memorials of his presence — Reaches the Acesines, 
where Coenus dies — Reconciles Taxiles and Porus, and 
then sails down stream 

But not even by this appeal could a single word be 
elicited from any of the soldiers. They waited for the 
generals and chief captains to report to the king that the 
men, exhausted with their wounds and incessant labours 
in the field, did not refuse the duties of war, but were 
simply unable to discharge them. The officers, however, 
paralysed with terror, kept their eyes steadfastly fixed on 
the ground, and remained silent. Then there arose, no 
one knew how, first a sighing and then a sobbing, until, 
little by little, their grief began to vent itself more freely 
in streaming tears, so that even the king, whose anger 
had been turned into pity, could not himself refrain from 
tears, anxious though he was to suppress them. At last, 
when the whole assembly had abandoned itself to an 
unrestrained passion of weeping, Coenus, on finding that 
the others were reluctant to open their lips, made bold to 

1 So Caesar, when his soldiers, expedition with them alone, most 

terrified by the accounts they had likely misrepresents the tone which 

heard of the Germans, refused to he assumed. 

advance against them, said, that if 2 Cerealis addressed his men in 

nobody else would go with him he similar terms: "Go, tell Vespasian, 

would set out with the Tenth Legion or Civilis and Classicus who are 

alone {Bell. Gall. i. 40). Thirlwall nearer at hand, that you deserted 

is of opinion that Alexander's threat your leader on the field of battle " 

to throw himself on his Baktrian and (Tacitus, H. iv. 77). 
Skythian auxiliaries, and make the 



228 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

step forward to the tribunal where the king stood, and 
signified that he had somewhat to say. When the soldiers 
saw him removing his helmet from his head — a custom 
observed in addressing the king — they earnestly besought 
him that he would plead the cause of the army. 

" May the gods,' ; he then said, " defend us from all 
disloyal thoughts ; and assuredly they do thus defend us. 
Your soldiers are now of the same mind towards you as 
they ever were in times past, being ready to go wherever 
you order them, ready to fight your battles, to risk their 
lives, and to give your name in keeping to after ages. 
So then, if you still persist in your purpose, all unarmed, 
naked and bloodless though we be, we either follow you, 
or go on before you, according to your pleasure. But if 
you desire to hear the complaints of your soldiers, which 
are not feigned, but wrung from them by the sorest 
necessity, vouchsafe, I entreat you, a favourable hearing 
to men who have most devotedly followed your authority 
and your fortunes, and are ready to follow you wherever 
you may go. Oh, sir ! you have conquered, by the great- 
ness of your deeds, not your enemies alone, but your own 
soldiers as well. 

" We again have done and suffered up to the full 
measure of the capacity of mortal nature. We have 
traversed seas and lands, and know them better than do 
the inhabitants themselves. We are standing now almost 
on the earth's utmost verge, and yet you are preparing to 
go to a sphere altogether new — to go in quest of an 
India unknown even to the Indians themselves. You 
would fain root out from their hidden recesses and dens 
a race of men that herd with snakes and wild beasts, so 
that you may traverse as a conqueror more regions than 
the sun surveys. The thought is altogether worthy of a 
soul so lofty as thine, but it is above ours ; for while thy 
courage will be ever growing, our vigour is fast waning to 
its end. 

" See how bloodless be our bodies, pierced with how 
many wounds, and gashed with how many scars ! Our 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 229 

weapons are now blunt, our armour quite worn out. We 
have been driven to assume the Persian garb since that 
of our own country cannot be brought up to supply us. 
We have degenerated so far as to adopt a foreign costume. 
Among how many of us is there to be found a single coat 
of mail ? Which of us has a horse ? Cause it to be 
inquired how many have servants to follow them, how 
much of his booty each one has now left. We have 
conquered all the world, but are ourselves destitute of all 
things. Can you think of exposing such a noble army 
as this, all naked and defenceless, to the mercy of savage 
beasts, whose numbers, though purposely exaggerated by 
the barbarians, must yet, as I can gather from the lying 
report itself, be very considerable. If, however, you are 
bent on penetrating still farther into India, that part of it 
which lies towards the south is not so vast, and were this 
subdued you could then quickly find your way to that 
sea which nature has ordained to be the boundary of the 
inhabited world. Why do you make a long circuit in 
pursuit of glory when it is placed immediately within 
your reach, for even here the ocean is to be found. 
Unless, then, you wish to go wandering about, we have 
already reached the goal unto which your fortune leads 
you. I have preferred to speak on these matters in your 
presence, O King ! rather than to discuss them with the 
soldiers in your absence, not that I have in view to gain 
thereby for myself the good graces of the army here 
assembled, but that you might learn their sentiments from 
my lips rather than be obliged to hear their murmurs and 
their groans." 1 

1 " This speech, put into the mouth compose to suit the situation. The 

of Coenus, has a peculiar literary remarkable parallels found in this 

interest beyond the ordinary run of collection to the present speech of 

orations written for their leading Curtius illustrates in a very striking 

characters by the rhetorical historians way the artificial nature of these 

of antiquity. In the remaining works harangues, and show what a vast 

of the elder Seneca we have a suasoria amount of labour this spirited and 

or hortatory oration (see Mayor on polished specimen probably took to 

Juvenal, i. 16) on this very subject, produce. The corresponding speech 

in which are arranged all the telling in Arrian, v. 27, though less pointed 

sentences that some of the most than that in Curtius, is more natural 

famous Roman rhetoricians could and easy, and certainly far superior 



230 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

When Coenus had made an end of speaking there 
arose from all parts of the audience assenting shouts, 
mingled with lamentations and confused voices, calling 
Alexander king, father, lord, and master. And now also 
the other officers, especially the seniors, who from their 
age possessed all the greater authority, and could with a 
better grace beg to be excused from any more service, 
united in making the same request. Alexander therefore 
found himself unable either to rebuke them for their stub- 
bornness or to appease their angry mood. Being thus 
quite at a loss what to do, he leaped down from the 
tribunal and shut himself up in the royal pavilion, into 
which he forbade any one to be admitted except his 
ordinary attendants. For two days he indulged his anger, 
but on the third day he emerged from his seclusion, and 
ordered twelve altars of square stone to be erected as a 
monument of his expedition. He ordered also the forti- 
fications around the camp to be drawn out wide, and 
couches of a larger size than was required for men of 
ordinary stature to be left, so that by making things 
appear in magnificent proportions he might astonish 
posterity by deceptive wonders. 1 

From this place he marched back the way he had 
come, and encamped near the river Acesines. There 
Coenus caught an illness, which carried him off. 2 The 
king was doubtless deeply grieved by his death, but yet 
he could not forbear remarking that it was but for the 
sake of a few days he had opened a long-winded speech 
as though he alone were destined to see Macedonia again. 
The fleet which he had ordered to be built was now rid- 
ing in the stream ready for service. Memnon also had 
meanwhile brought from Thrace a reinforcement of 5000 
cavalry, together with 7000 infantry sent by Harpalus. 

to that put into the mouth of Alex- llydaspOs, as will be seen by a refer- 

ander" (Alexander in India, p. 140, ence to Arrian, vi. 2. He is further 

n - 5)- in error, like Diod&ros, in making the 

See Note N, Alexander's Altars fleet start on its voyage from the 

on the Ilyphasis. Akesines instead of from the Hy- 

Curtius is here in error as to the daspes. 
place of his death, for he died at the 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



231 



He also brought 25,000 suits of armour inlaid with silver 
and gold, and these Alexander distributed to the troops, 
commanding the old suits to be burned. 1 Designing now 
to make for the ocean with a thousand ships, he left Porus 
and Taxiles, the Indian kings who had been disagreeing 
and raking up old feuds, in friendly relations with each 
other, strengthened by a marriage alliance ; and as they 
had done their utmost to help him forward with the build- 
ing of his fleet, he confirmed each in his sovereignty. He 
built also two towns, one of which he called Nicaea, and 
the other Bucephala, dedicating the latter to the memory 
of the horse which he had lost. Then leaving orders for 
the elephants and baggage to follow him by land, he 
sailed down the river, proceeding every day about 40 
stadia, to allow the troops to land from time to time where 
they could conveniently be put ashore. 2 



1 "It is recorded," said Colonel 
Chesney in his Simla lecture on 
Alexander, "that he sent to Greece 
for 20,000 fresh suits of armour. A 
suit of armour and arms probably 
weighed three - fourths of a maund 
(60 lbs.), and we may assume that 
with the arms a good many other 
articles were indented for at the same 
time. Altogether we may take it 
that the requisition was for not less 
than from 20,000 to 30,000 mule 
loads — 30,000 laden mules to be 
despatched from Macedonia to the 
Satlej ! A large order. And this 
suggests another consideration. Alex- 
ander's army on the Satlej was 50,000 
strong ; how about his lines of com- 
munication ? During the late Afghan 
war over 50,000 men crossed the 
frontier, yet I believe the general had 
never at any time more than 10,000 
men in hand at the front ; the rest 
were swallowed up in holding obliga- 
tory posts and keeping up the line of 
communication. Now if 40,000 men 
are needed for this purpose to keep 
10,000 effective in the front, when 
the distance to be covered was only 
200 miles, what would be the force 
required to secure the line of com- 
munication between Macedonia and 



the army halted on the banks of the 
Satlej ? The answer is to be found 
in the system of war pursued by 
Alexander's Greek generals, and 
garrisons were left at certain points 
on the road ; and where complete 
submission was made, the enemy was 
left in possession of his country and 
converted into an ally. But when 
the resistance was obstinate Alex- 
ander left no enemies behind." As 
Alexander led into India 120,000 
men, Colonel Chesney's estimate that 
he had only 50,000 at the Hyphasis 
(which he calls the Satlej) must surely 
be far below the mark. 

2 Yet Pliny (vi. 17) says that 
though Alexander sailed on the Indus 
never less than 600 stadia per day, 
he took more than five months to 
complete the navigation of it ! This 
would give the Indus a length of 
12,000 miles ! Aristoboulos said the 
navigation occupied ten months, but 
we may strike off a month from this 
estimate. The voyage began near 
the end of October 326 B.C. The 
distance from the starting-point to 
the sea by the course of the river is 
between eight and nine hundred 
British miles. 



232 THE INVASION OF INDIA 



Chapter IV. — Alexander subdues various tribes on his way 
to the Indus — Disasters to his fleet at the meeting of 
the rivers — His campaign against the Sudracae and 
Malli — Assails their chief stronghold and is left 
standing alone on the wall 

Thus he came at length into the country where the 
river Hydaspes falls into the Acesines, and thence flows 
down to the territories of the Sibi. 1 These people allege 
that their ancestors belonged to the army of Hercules, 
and that being left behind on account of sickness had 
possessed themselves of the seats which their posterity 
now occupied. They dressed themselves with the skins 
of wild beasts, and had clubs for their weapons. They 
showed besides many other traces of their origin, though 
in the course of time Greek manners and institutions had 
grown obsolete. He landed among them, and marching 
a distance of 250 stadia into the country beyond their 
borders, laid it waste, and took its capital town by an 
assault made against the walls all round. The nation, 
consisting of 40,000 foot-soldiers, had been drawn up 
along the bank of the river to oppose his landing, but he 
nevertheless crossed the stream, put the enemy to flight, 
and, having stormed the town, compelled all who were 
shut up within its walls to surrender. Those who were 
of military age were put to the sword, and the rest were 
sold as slaves. 

He then laid siege to another town, but the defenders 
made so gallant a resistance that he was repulsed with 
the loss of many of his Macedonians. 2 He persevered, 
however, with the siege till the inhabitants, despairing of 
their safety, set fire to their houses, and cast themselves 
along with their wives and children into the flames. 
War then showed itself in a new form, for while the 
inhabitants were destroying their city by spreading the 
flames, the enemy were striving to save it by quenching 
1 Sec Note Ec, The Sibi. ' See Note F/, The Agalassians. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 233 

them, so completely does war invert natural relations. 
The citadel of the town had escaped damage, and Alex- 
ander accordingly left a garrison behind in it. He was 
himself conveyed by means of boats around the fortress, 
for the three largest rivers in India (if we except the 
Ganges) washed the line of its fortifications. The Indus 
on the north flows close up to it, and on the south the 
Acesines unites with the Hydaspes. 1 

But the meeting of the rivers makes the waters swell 
in great billows like those of the ocean, and the navigable 
way is compressed into a narrow channel by extensive 
mud-banks kept continually shifting by the force of the 
confluent waters. When the waves, therefore, in thick 
succession dashed against the vessels, beating both on 
their prows and sides, the sailors were obliged to take in 
sail ; but partly from their own flurry, and partly from 
the force of the currents, they were unable to execute 
their orders in time, and before the eyes of all two of the 
large ships were engulphed in the stream. The smaller 
craft, however, though they also were unmanageable, 
were driven on shore without sustaining injury. The 
ship which had the king himself on board was caught in 
eddies of the greatest violence, and by their force was 
irresistibly driven athwart and whirled onward without 
answering the helm. 

He had already stripped off his clothes preparatory to 
throwing himself into the river, while his friends were 
swimming about not far off ready to pick him up, but as 
it was evident that the danger was about equal whether 
he threw himself into the water or remained on board, 
the boatmen vied with each other in stretching to their 
oars, and made every exertion possible for human beings 
to force their vessel through the raging surges. It then 
seemed as though the waves were being cloven asunder, 

1 Cnrtius has here confounded the explicable. Arrian has given a vivid 

junction of the Hydaspes and Akesines description of the confluence, but 

with that of the Indus and the com- does not indicate that Alexander's 

bined stream of the Panjab rivers. life was in danger from its perilous 

The geography of the passage is in- navigation. 



234 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

and as though the whirling eddies were retreating, and the 
ship was thus at length rescued from their grasp. It did 
not, however, gain the shore in safety, but was stranded on 
the nearest shallows. One would suppose that a war 
had been waged against the river. Alexander there 
erected as many altars as there were rivers, and having 
offered sacrifices upon them marched onward, accomplish- 
ing a distance of thirty stadia. 

Thence he came into the dominions of the Sudracae 
and the Malli, who hitherto had usually been at war with 
each other, but now drew together in presence of the 
common danger. Their army consisted of 90,000 foot- 
soldiers, all fit for active service, together with 10,000 
cavalry and 900 war chariots. But when the Mace- 
donians, who believed that they had by this time got 
past all their dangers, found that they had still on hand 
a fresh war, in which the most warlike nations in all 
India would be their antagonists, they were struck with 
an unexpected terror, and began again to upbraid the 
king in the language of sedition. " Though he had been 
driven," they said, " to give up the river Ganges and 
regions beyond it, he had not ended the war, but only 
shifted it. They were now exposed to fierce nations 
that with their blood they might open for him a way to 
the ocean. They were dragged onward outside the range 
of the constellations and the sun of their own zone, and 
forced to go to places which nature meant to be hidden 
from mortal eyes. 1 New enemies were for ever spring- 
ing up with arms ever new, and though they put them 
all to rout and flight, what reward awaited them ? What 
but mists and darkness and unbroken night hovering 
over the abyss of ocean ? What but a sea teeming with 

1 This rhetorical passage will re- wrapped in her pall of gloom, sits 

mind the readers of Virgil of his brooding in unending silence." The 

description of the zones (Georg. i. passage was probably, however, 

231-251): " Five zones comprise the suggested by the lines of the sixth 

heaven . . . of which two, the frozen book of the Acm-id, 794-796= "He 

homes of green ice and black storms, (Augustus Caesar) will stretch his 

stretch far away. . . . One pole is sway beyond Garamantian and Indian, 

thrust down beneath the feet of murky See, the land is lying outside the 

atyx . . . where eternal night, stars, outside the sun's yearly path." 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 235 

multitudes of frightful monsters — stagnating waters in 
which expiring nature has given way in despair ? " 1 

The king, troubled not by any fears for himself, but 
by the anxiety of the soldiers about their safety, called 
them together, and pointed out to them that those of 
whom they were afraid were weak and unwarlike ; that 
after the conquest of these tribes there was nothing in 
their way, once they had traversed the distance now 
between them and the ocean, to prevent their coming to 
the end of the world, which would be also the end of 
their labours ; that he had given way to their fears of 
the Ganges and of the numerous tribes beyond that 
river, and turned his arms to a quarter where the glory 
would be equal but the hazard less ; that they were 
already in sight of the ocean, and were already fanned 
by breezes from the sea. 2 They should not then grudge 
him the glory to which he aspired. They would over- 
pass the limits reached by Hercules and Father Bacchus, 
and thus at a small cost bestow upon their king an 
immortality of fame. They should permit him to return 
from India with honour, and not to escape from it like a 
fugitive. 

Every assemblage, and especially one of soldiers, is 
readily carried away by any chance impulse, and hence 
the measures for quelling a mutiny are less important 
than the circumstances in which it originates. Never 
before did so eager and joyous a shout ring out as was 
now sent forth by the army asking him to lead them 
forward, and expressing the hope that the gods would 
prosper his arms and make him equal in glory to those 
whom he was emulating. Alexander, elated by these 
acclamations, at once broke up his camp and advanced 
against the enemy, which was the strongest in point of 
numbers of all the Indian tribes. They were making 
active preparations for war, and had selected as their 

1 "Racine (Alex. v. i.), imitating nature semble elle-meme expirer" 
the present passage, says : des diserts (Alex, in Ind. p. 148). 
que le del refuse cCeclairer, oh la 2 From which they were yet some 

600 miles distant ! 



236 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

head a brave warrior of the nation of the Sudracae. 1 
This experienced general had encamped at the foot of a 
mountain, and had ordered fires to be kindled over a 
wide circuit to make his army appear so much the more 
numerous. He endeavoured also at times, but in vain, 
to alarm the Macedonians when at rest by making his 
men shout and howl in their own barbarous manner. 

As soon as day dawned, the king, full of hope and 
confidence, ordered his soldiers, who were eager for action, 
to take their arms and march to battle. The barbarians, 
however, fled all of a sudden, but whether through fear 
or dissensions that had arisen among them, there is no 
record to show. At any rate, they escaped timeously to 
their mountain recesses, which were difficult of approach. 
The king pursued the fugitives, but to no purpose ; how- 
ever, he took their baggage. 

Thence he came into the city of the Sudracae, into 
which most of the enemy had fled, 2 trusting for safety as 
much to their arms as to the strength of the fortifications. 
The king was now advancing to attack the place, when 
a soothsayer warned him not to undertake the siege, or 
at all events to postpone it, since the omens indicated 
that his life would be in danger. The king fixing his 
eyes upon Demophon (for this was the name of the 
soothsayer), said : " If any one should in this manner 
interrupt thyself, while busied with thine art and inspect- 
ing entrails, wouldst thou not regard him as impertinent 
and troublesome ? " "I certainly would so regard him," 
said Demophon. Then rejoined Alexander, " Dost thou 
not think then that when I am occupied with such import- 
ant matters, and not with the inspection of the entrails of 

1 Called the Oxydrakai byArrian. Ilydaspes and the Akesines to the 

See Note P. Curtius here differs from capital of the Malloi situated above 

Diodoros, who says that the Syra- the old junction of the united stream 

kousai (Oxydrakai) and Malloi could of these two rivers with the Hydra- 

not agree as to the choice of a leader, 6tes. 

and ceased in consequence to keep 2 But according to Arrian, Strabo, 

the field together. Both these his- and Plutarch, the city where Alex- 

tonans are silent as to the operations andor was nearly wounded to death 

conducted by Alexander during his belonged to the Malloi. 
march from the junction of the 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 237 

cattle, there can be any interruption more unseasonable 
to me than a soothsayer enslaved by superstition ? " x 
Without more loss of time than was required for return- 
ing the answer, he ordered the scaling-ladders to be 
applied to the wall, and while the others were hesitating 
to mount them, he himself scaled the ramparts. 2 

The parapet which ran round the rampart was narrow, 
and was not marked out along the coping with battle- 
ments and embrasures, but was built in an unbroken line 
of breastwork, which obstructed assailants in attempting 
to get over. The king then was clinging to the edge of 
the parapet, rather than standing upon it, warding off 
with his shield the darts that fell upon him from every 
side, for he was assailed by missiles from all the surround- 
ing towers. Nor were the soldiers able to mount the 
wall under the storm of arrows discharged against them 
from above. 3 Still at last a sense of shame overcame their 
fear of the greatness of the danger, for they saw that by 
their hesitation the king would fall into the hands of 
his enemies. But their help was delayed by their hurry, 
for while every one strove to get soonest to the top of the 
wall, they were precipitated from the ladders which they 
overloaded till they broke, thus balking the king of his 
only hope. He was in consequence left standing in sight 
of his numerous army, like a man in a solitude, whom all 
the world has forsaken. 

1 Thirlwall, with good reason, Hector (Iliad, xii. 237-243), where he 

regards this incident as a mere em- expresses his contempt for omens 

bellishment of the story. "It is drawn from the flight of birds. Hanni- 

certain," he says, "that even if bal had a similar contempt, as appears 

Alexander believed in such things from Cicero, de Div. ii. 
less than he appears to have done, he 2 Curtius, like Plutarch, represents 

was too prudent to disclose his in- Alexander to have been wounded 

credulity, and so throw away an after he had scaled the city wall, and 

instrument which a Greek general thence leaped down into the city. 

might so often find useful" (Hist. But this is a mistake. Itwas thewallof 

of Greece, vii. c. 54). The story is the citadel he scaled, and it was within 

found in Diodfiros also. If a fiction, the citadel he was wounded, as we 

it may have been suggested by the learn both from Arrian and Diodoros. 
fact that Alexander on approaching 3 " Probably a piece of gratuitous 

Babylon, where he died, was warned padding put in by Curtius to heighten 

by Chaldaean soothsayers not to enter the effect of his picture. Nothing of 

that city. If true, Alexander had the kind is found in Arrian or Dio- 

doubtless in his mind the words of doros " (Alex, in India, p. 151). 



238 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Chapter V. — Alexander is severely wounded by an arrow 
within the stronghold of the Sudracae — The arrow is 
extracted by Critobulus 

By this time his left hand, with which he was shifting 
his buckler about, became tired with parrying the blows 
directed against him from all round, and his friends cried 
out to him that he should leap down, and were standing 
ready to catch him when he fell. But instead of taking 
this course, he did an act of daring past all belief and 
unheard of — an act notable as adding far more to his 
reputation for rashness than to his true glory. For with 
a headlong spring he flung himself into the city filled 
with his enemies, even though he could scarcely expect to 
die fighting, since before he could rise from the ground 
he was likely to be overpowered and taken prisoner. 
But, as luck would have it, he had flung his body with 
such nice poise that he alighted on his feet, which gave 
him the advantage of an erect attitude when he began 
fighting. Fortune had also so provided that he could 
not possibly be surrounded, for an aged tree which grew 
not far from the wall, had thrown out branches thickly 
covered with leaves, as if for the very purpose of shelter- 
ing the king. Against the huge bole of this tree he so 
planted himself that he could not be surrounded, and as 
he was thus protected in rear, he received on his buckler 
the darts with which he was assailed in front ; for single- 
handed though he was, not one of the many who set 
upon him ventured to come to close-quarters with him, 
and their missiles lodged more frequently in the branches 
of the tree than in his buckler. 

What served him well at this juncture was the far- 
spread renown of his name, and next to that despair, 
which above everything nerves men to die gloriously. 
But as the numbers of the enemy were constantly 
increasing, his buckler was by this time loaded with 
darts, and his helmet shattered by stones, while his knees 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 239 

sank under him from the fatigue of his protracted 
exertions. On seeing this, they who stood nearest 
incautiously rushed upon hfrn in contempt of the danger. 
Two of these he smote with his sword, and laid them 
dead at his feet, and after that no one could muster up 
courage enough to go near him. They only plied him 
with darts and arrows from a distance off. 

But though thus exposed as a mark for every shot, he 
had no great difficulty in protecting himself while crouch- 
ing on his knees, until an Indian let fly an arrow two 
cubits long (for the Indians, as remarked already, use 
arrows of this length), and pierced him through his 
armour a little above his right side. Struck down by 
this wound, from which the blood spirted in great jets, 
he let his weapon drop as if he were dying without 
strength enough left to let his right hand extract the 
arrow. The archer, accordingly, who had wounded him, 
exulting in his success, ran forward with eager haste to 
strip his body. But Alexander no sooner felt him lay 
hands on his person, than he became so exasperated by 
the supreme indignity, I imagine, of the outrage, that he 
recalled his swooning spirit, and with an upward thrust 
of his sword pierced the exposed side of his antagonist. 
Thus there lay dead around the king three of his assail- 
ants, while the others stood off like men stupefied. 

Meanwhile he endeavoured to raise himself up with 
his buckler, that he might die sword in hand, before his 
last breath left him, but finding he had not strength 
enough for the effort, he grasped with his right hand some 
of the defending boughs, and tried to rise with their help. 
His strength was, however, inadequate even to support 
his body, and he fell down again upon his knees, waving 
his hand as a challenge to the enemy to meet him in close 
combat if any of them dared. At length Peucestas in a 
different quarter of the town beat off the men who were 
defending the wall, and following the king's traces came 
to where he was. Alexander on seeing him thought that 
he had come not to succour him in life, but to comfort him 



240 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

in his death, and giving way through sheer exhaustion, 
fell over on his shield. 

Then came up Timaeus', and a little afterwards 
Leonnatus followed by Aristonus. 1 The Indians, on 
discovering that the king was within their walls, abandoned 
all other places and ran in crowds to where he was, and 
pressed hard upon those who defended him. Timaeus, 
one of such, after receiving many wounds and making a 
gallant struggle, fell. Peucestas again, though pierced 
with three javelin wounds, held up his buckler not for 
his own, but the king's protection. Leonnatus, while 
endeavouring to drive back the barbarians who were 
eagerly pressing forward, was severely wounded in the 
neck, and fell down in a swoon at the king's feet. 
Peucestas was also now quite exhausted with the loss of 
blood from his wounds and could no longer hold up his 
buckler. Thus all the hope now lay in Aristonus, but he 
also was desperately wounded, and could no longer sustain 
the onset of so many assailants. In the meantime the 
rumour that the king had fallen reached the Macedonians. 

What would have terrified others only served to 
stimulate their ardour, for, heedless of every danger, they 
broke down the wall with their pickaxes, and where they 
had made an entrance burst into the city and massacred 
great numbers of the Indians, chiefly in the pursuit, no 
resistance being offered except by a mere handful. They 
spared neither old men, women, nor children, but held 
whomsoever they met to have been the person by whom 
the king had been wounded, and in this way they at 
length satiated their righteous indignation. 

Clitarchus and Timagenes state that Ptolemy, who 
afterwards became a king, was present at this fighting, but 
Ptolemy himself, who would not of course gainsay his 
own glory, has recorded in his memoirs that he was away 
at the time, as the king had sent him on an expedition 

_ 1 Timaeus and Aristonus are men- rescue. It is supposed that the Tim- 
tioned only by Curtius as among aeus of Curtius is the same person as 
those who came first to Alexander's the Limnaios of Plutarch. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 241 

elsewhere. This instance shows how great was the 
carelessness of the authors who composed these old books 
of history, or, it may be, their credulity, which is just as 
great a dereliction of their duty. The king was carried 
into a tent, where the surgeons cut off the wooden shaft of 
the arrow which had pierced him, taking care not to stir 
its point. When his armour was taken off they discovered 
that the weapon was barbed, and that it could not be 
extracted without danger except by making an incision to 
open the wound. But here again they were afraid lest in 
operating they should be unable to staunch the flow of 
blood, for the weapon was large and had been driven 
home with such force that it had evidently pierced to the 
inwards. 

Critobulus, who was famous for his surgical skill, 1 was 
nevertheless swayed by fear in a case so precarious, and 
dreaded to put his hand to the work lest his failure to 
effect a cure should recoil on his own head. The king 
observing him to weep, and to be showing signs of fear, and 
looking ghastly pale, said to him : " For what and how 
long are you waiting that you do not set to work as quickly 
as possible ? If die I must, free me at least from the pain 
I suffer. Are you afraid lest you should be held to account 
because I have received an incurable wound ?" Then Crito- 
bulus, at last overcoming, or perhaps dissembling his fear, 
begged Alexander to suffer himself to be held while he 
was extracting the point, since even a slight motion of his 
body would be of dangerous consequence. To this the 
king replied that there was no need of men to hold him, 
and then, agreeably to what had been enjoined him, he 
did not wince the least during the operation. 2 

When the wound had then been laid wide open and 
the point extracted, there followed such a copious discharge 

1 Pliny (vii. 37) mentions a Crito- ander's case to Kritodemos, a physi- 

bulus who acquired great celebrity by cian of Kos, but others to Perdikkas. 
extracting an arrow from the eye of 2 So Marius in like circumstances 

Philip, Alexander's father. Arrian forbade himself to be bound (Cicero, 

again says that some authors assigned Tusc. Disput. ii. 22). 
the credit of the operation in Alex- 

R 



24 2 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

of blood that the king began to swoon, while a dark mist 
came over his eyes, and he lay extended as if he were 
dying. Every remedy was applied to staunch the blood, 
but all to no purpose, so that the king's friends, believing 
him to be dead, broke out into cries and lamentations. 
The bleeding did, however, at last stop, and the patient 
gradually recovered consciousness and began to recognise 
those who stood around him. All that day and the night 
which followed the army lay under arms around the royal 
tent. All of them confessed that their life depended on 
his single breath, and they could not be prevailed on to 
withdraw until they had ascertained that he had fallen 
into a quiet sleep. Thereupon they returned to the camp 
entertaining more assured hopes of his recovery. 



Chapter VI. — Alexander recovers and shows himself to the 
army — His officers remonstrate with him for his 
recklessness in exposing his life to danger — His reply 
to their appeal 

The king, who had now been kept for the space of 
seven days under treatment for his wound without its 
being as yet cicatrised, on hearing that a report of his 
death had gained a wide currency among the barbarians, 
caused two ships to be lashed together and his tent to be 
set up in the centre where it would be conspicuous to 
every one, so that he might therefrom show himself to 
those who believed him to be dead. By thus exposing 
himself to the view of the inhabitants he crushed the hope 
with which the false report had inspired his enemies. He 
then sailed down the river, 1 starting a good while before 
the rest of the fleet, lest the repose which his weak bodily 
condition still required should be disturbed by the noise 
of rowing. On the fourth day after he had embarked he 
reached a country deserted by its inhabitants, but fruitful 

1 The HydrnotOs or R&vi, which in those days joined the Akesine's below MultSn. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 243 

in corn and well stocked with cattle. Here along with 
his soldiers he enjoyed a welcome season of rest. 

Now it was a custom among the Macedonians that the 
king's especial friends and those who had the guard of his 
person watched before his tent during any occasional 
illness. This custom being now observed as usual, 
they all entered his chamber in a body. Alexander 
fearing they might be the bearers of some bad news, since 
they had all come together, enquired whether they had 
come to inform him that the enemy had that moment 
arrived. Then Craterus, who had been chosen by the 
others as their medium to let the king know the entreaties 
of his friends, addressed him in these terms : " Can you 
imagine,'' he began, " that we could be more alarmed by 
the enemy's approach, even if they were already within our 
lines, than we are concerned for your personal safety, by 
which, it seems, you set but little store ? Were the 
united powers of the whole world to conspire against us, 
were they to cover the land all over with arms and men, 
to cover the seas with fleets, and lead ferocious wild 
beasts against us, we shall prove invincible to every foe 
when we have you to lead us. But which of the gods 
can ensure that this the stay and star of Macedonia will 
be long preserved to us when you are so forward to 
expose your person Ho manifest dangers, forgetting that 
you draw into peril the lives of so many of your country- 
men ? For which of us wishes to survive you, or even has 
it within his power ? Under your conduct and command 
we have advanced so far that there is no one but yourself 
who can lead us back to our hearths and homes. 

" No doubt while you were still contending with 
Darius for the sovereignty of Persia, one could not even 
think it strange (though no one wished it) that you were 
ever ready and eager to rush boldly into danger, for 
where the risk and the reward are fairly balanced, the 
gain is not only more ample in case of success, but the 
solace is greater in case of defeat. But that your very 
life should be paid as the price of an obscure village, 



244 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

which of your soldiers, nay, what inhabitant of any 
barbarous country that has heard of your greatness can 
tolerate such an idea? My soul is struck with horror 
when I think of the scene which was lately presented to 
our eyes. 

" I cannot but tremble to relate that the hands of the 
greatest dastards would have polluted the spoils stripped 
from the invincible Alexander, had not fortune, looking 
with pity on us, interfered for your deliverance. We are 
no better than traitors, no better than deserters, all of us 
who were unable to keep up with you when you ran into 
danger ; and should you therefore brand us all with 
dishonour, none of us will refuse to give satisfaction for 
that from the guilt of which he could not secure him- 
self. Show us, we beseech you then, in some other 
way, how cheap you hold us. We are ready to go 
wherever you order. We solicit that for us you reserve 
obscure dangers and inglorious battles, while you save 
yourself for those occasions which give scope for your 
greatness. Glory won in a contest with inferior opponents 
soon becomes stale, and nothing can be more absurd than 
to let your valour be wasted where it cannot be displayed 
to view." 

Ptolemy and others who were present addressed him 
in the same or similar terms, and all of them, as one man, 
besought him with tears that, sated as he was with glory, 
he would at last set some limits to that passion and 
have more regard for his own safety, on which that of the 
public depended. The affection and loyalty of his friends 
were so gratifying to the king that he embraced them one 
by one with more than his usual warmth, and requested 
them all to be seated. 1 

Then, in addressing them, he went far back in a review 
of his career and said : " I return you, most faithful and 
most dutiful subjects and friends, my most heartfelt thanks, 
not only because you at this time prefer my safety to 

1 Arrian, on the contrary, states, Alexander was annoyed by the re- 
on the authority of Ncarchos, that monstrances of his friends. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 245 

your own, but also because from the very outset of the 
war you have lost no opportunity of showing by every 
pledge and token your kindly feelings towards myself, so 
that I must confess my life has never been so dear to me 
as it is at present, and chiefly so, that I may long enjoy 
your companionship. At the same time, I must point 
out that those who are willing to lay down their lives for 
me do not look at the matter from my point of view, 
inasmuch as I judge myself to have deserved by my 
bravery your favourable inclinations towards me, for you 
may possibly be coveting to reap the fruit of my favour 
for a great length of time, perhaps even in perpetuity, but 
I measure myself not by the span of age, but by that of 
glory. 

" Had I been contented with my paternal heritage, 
I might have spent my days within the bounds of 
Macedonia, in slothful ease, to an obscure and inglorious 
old age ; although even those who remain indolently at 
home are not masters of their own destiny, for while they 
consider a long life to be the supreme good, an untimely 
death often takes them by surprise. I, however, who do 
not count my years but by my victories, have already had 
a long career of life, if I reckon aright the gifts of fortune. 
Having begun to reign in Macedonia, I now hold the 
supremacy of Greece. I have subdued Thrace and the 
people of Illyria ; I give laws to the Triballi and the 
Maedi, 1 and am master of Asia from the shores of Helles- 
pont as far south as the shores of the Indian Ocean. 
And now I am not far from the very ends of the earth, 
which when I have passed I purpose to open up to 
myself a new realm of nature — a new world. In the 
turning-point of a single hour I crossed over from Asia 
into the borders of Europe. 2 Having conquered both 
these continents in the ninth year of my reign, and in my 
twenty-eighth year, do you think I can pause in the task 

1 A Thracian tribe whose country 2 That is when he crossed the 
is mentioned in Ptolemy's Geography Tanai's (Jaxartes) to attack the Sky- 
as a strategic — that is, a province thians. " Unus Pellaeo juveni non 
governed by a general of the army. sufficit orbis. " 



246 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

of completing my glory, to which, and to which only, I 
have entirely devoted myself? No, I shall not fail in my 
duty to her, and wheresoever I shall be fighting I shall 
imagine myself on the world's theatre, with all mankind 
for spectators. I shall give celebrity to places before 
unnoted. I shall open up for all nations a way to regions 
which nature has hitherto kept far distant. 

" If fortune shall so direct that in the midst of these 
enterprises my life be cut short, that would only add to 
my renown. I am sprung from such a stock that I am 
bound to prefer living much to living long. 1 Reflect, I 
pray you, that we have come to lands in the eyes of 
which the name of a woman is the most famed for valour. 
What cities did Semiramis build ! What nations did she 
bring to subjection! What mighty works did she plan! 
We have not yet equalled the glorious achievements of a 
woman, and have we already had our fill of glory ? No, 
I say. Let the gods, however, but favour us, and things 
still greater remain for us yet to do. But the countries 
we have not yet reached shall only become ours on condi- 
tion that we consider nothing little in which there is room 
for great glory to be won. Do you but defend me 
against domestic treason and the plots of my own house- 
hold, 2 and I will fearlessly face the dangers of battle and 
war. 

" Philip was safer in the field of fight than in the 
theatre. He often escaped the hands of his enemies — he 
could not elude those of his subjects. 3 And if you 
examine how other kings also came by their end, you can 
count more that were slain by their own people than by 
their enemies. But now lastly, since an opportunity has 
presented itself to me of disclosing a matter which I have 

1 Referring to his descent from theatre. The Elzevir editor aptly 

Achilleus, whose career was short but quotes an epigram on Henry IV. of 

glorious. Fiance, to whom a saying was attri- 

" Alexander here refers to the plot bvtteil Pno protegit units: 
of Ilermolaos and the pages arainst 

his life. " O.allorum Rex regna, inquis, duo protegit 

3 Philip was assassinated by I\lll- Piol "xeVe tuum nee duo regna caput.' 1 

sanias while entering the door of a 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 247 

for a long time been turning over and over in my mind, I 
give you to understand that to me the greatest rewards of 
all my toils and achievements will be this, that my mother 
Olympias shall be deified as soon as she departs this life. 
If I be spared, I shall myself discharge that duty, but if 
death anticipate me, bear in memory that I have entrusted 
this office to you." With these words he dismissed his 
friends ; but for a good many days he remained in the 
same encampment. 



Chapter VII — The affair of Biton and Boxits at Baktra — 
Embassy from the Sudracae and Malli proffering sub- 
mission — Alexander entertains his army and the 
embassy at a sumptuous banquet — Single combat 
between a Macedonian and an Athenian champion 

While these things were doing in India, the Greek 
soldiers who had been recently drafted by the king into 
settlements around Bactra disagreed among themselves 
and revolted, for the stronger faction, having killed some 
of their countrymen who remained loyal, had recourse to 
arms, and making themselves masters of the citadel of 
Bactra, which happened to be carelessly guarded, forced 
even the barbarians to join their party. Their leader was 
Athenodorus, who had also assumed the title of king, not 
so much from an ambition to reign as from a wish to 
return to his native country along with those who acknow- 
ledged his authority. Against his life one Biton, a citizen 
of the same Greek state as- himself, but who hated him 
from envy, laid a plot, and having invited him to a 
banquet, had him assassinated during the festivities by 
the hands of a native of Margiana called Boxus. The 
day following Biton, in a general meeting which had been 
convoked, persuaded the majority that Athenodorus had 
without any provocation formed a plot to take away his 
life. Others, however, suspected there had been foul play 
on Biton's part, and by degrees this suspicion spread itself 



248 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

about among the rest. The Greek soldiers, therefore, 
took up arms to put Biton to death should an opportunity 
present itself. 

But the leading men appeased the anger of the multi- 
tude, and Biton being thus freed from his imminent 
danger, contrary to what he had anticipated, soon after- 
wards conspired against the very man to whom he owed 
his safety. But when his treachery came to their knowledge 
they seized both Biton himself and Boxus. The latter 
they ordered to be at once put to death, but Biton not till 
after he had undergone torture. The instruments for this 
purpose were already being applied to his limbs when the 
soldiers, it is not known why, ran to their arms like so 
many madmen. On hearing the uproar they made, the 
men who had orders to torture Biton desisted from their 
office, thinking that the object of the rioters, whom they 
had heard shouting, was to prevent them going on with 
their work. Biton, stripped as he was, ran for protection 
to the Greeks, and the sight of the wretched man sen- 
tenced to death caused such a revulsion of their feelings 
that they ordered him to be set at liberty. Having twice 
escaped punishment, he returned to his native country 
with the rest of those who left the colonies which the king 
had assigned to them. 1 These things were done about 
Bactra and the borders of Scythia. 

In the meantime a hundred ambassadors came to the 
king from the two nations we have before mentioned. 2 
They all rode in chariots and were men of uncommon 
stature and of a very dignified bearing. Their robes 
were of linen and embroidered with inwrought gold and 
purple. They informed him that they surrendered into 
his hands themselves, their cities, and their territories, 
and that he was the first to whose authority and protection 

1 The incident is menl ioned briefly " The Sudracae and the Malli. 

by Diodoros (xvii. 99). The 3000 They arrived while Alexander was 

Greeks who left their colonies to still in camp near the confluence of 

return home suffered great hardships the Hydraotes with the Akesines, 

on the way, and were slain by the where he had joined Hephaisti&n and 

Macedonians after Alexander's death. Nearchos. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 249 

they had intrusted their liberty which for so many ages 
they had preserved inviolate. The gods, they said, were 
the authors of their submission and not fear, seeing that 
they had submitted to his yoke while their strength was 
quite unbroken. The king at a meeting of his council 
accepted their proffer of submission and allegiance, and 
imposed on them the tribute which the two nations paid 
in instalments to the Arachosians. 1 He further ordered 
them to furnish him with 2500 horsemen, all which com- 
mands were faithfully carried out by the barbarians. 
After this he gave orders for the preparation of a splendid 
banquet to which he invited the ambassadors and the petty 
kings of the neighbouring tribes. Here a hundred couches 
of gold had been placed at a small distance from each other, 
and these were hung round with tapestry curtains which 
glittered with gold and purple. In a word he displayed 
at this entertainment all that was corrupt in the ancient 
luxury of the Persians as well as in the new-fangled fashions 
which had been adopted by the Macedonians, thus inter- 
mixing the vices of both nations. 

At this banquet there was present Dioxippus the 
Athenian, a famous boxer, 2 who on account of his surprising 
strength was already well known to the king, and one even 
of his favourites. Some there were who from envy and 
malice used to carp at him between jest and earnest, 
remarking they had a full-fed good-for-nothing beast in 
their company, who when others went forth to fight would 
rub himself with oil and take exercise to get up his 
appetite. Now at the banquet a Macedonian called 
Horratus, who was by this time " flown with wine," began 
to taunt him in the usual style, and challenged him, if he 

1 A statement, as Thirlwall ob- on a certain occasion was wounded, 
serves, hardly consistent either with and the blood flowing, exclaimed : 
the boasts of independence made by ' ' This is ichor such as flows in the 
the two nations, or with their recorded veins of the blessed gods. " Ailianos 
actions. in his Hist. Var. (x. 22) describes his 

2 Athenaios (vi. 13) relates, on the combat with the Macedonian. Pliny 
authority of Aristoboulos, that this (xxxv. 1 1 ) informs us that Dioxippos 
Dioxippos, the Athenian, whom he was painted as a victor in the Olympic 
calls a pankratiast, when Alexander pancratium by Aleimachus. 



250 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

were a man, to fight him next day with his sword, after 
which the king would judge of his temerity or of the 
cowardice of Dioxippus. The terms of the challenge 
were accepted by Dioxippus, who treated with contempt 
the bravado of the insolent soldier. The king finding 
next day that the two men were more than ever bent on 
fighting, and that he could not dissuade them, allowed 
them to do as they pleased. The soldiers came in crowds 
to witness the affair, and among others Greeks who backed 
up Dioxippus. 1 

The Macedonian came with the proper arms, carrying 
in his left hand a brazen shield and the long spear called 
the sarissa, and in his right a javelin. He wore also a 
sword by his side as if he meant to fight with several 
opponents at once. Dioxippus again entered the ring 
shining with oil, wearing a garland about his brows, 
having a scarlet cloak wrapped about his left arm, and 
carrying in his right hand a stout knotty club. This 
singular mode of equipment kept all the spectators for a 
time in suspense, because it seemed not temerity but 
downright madness for a naked man to engage with one 
armed to the teeth. The Macedonian accordingly, not 
doubting for a moment but that he could kill his adversary 
from a distance, cast his javelin at him, but this Dioxippus 
avoided by a slight bending of his bod}', and before the 
other could shift the long pike to his right hand, sprang 
upon him and broke the weapon in two by a stroke of 
his club. The Macedonian, having thus lost two of his 
weapons, prepared to draw his sword, but Dioxippus closed 
with him before he was read}- to wield it, and suddenly 
tripping up his heels, knocked him down as with a blow 
from a battering-ram. He then wrested his sword from 
his grasp, planted his foot on his neck as he lay prostrate, 

1 It is uncertain whether the Mace- sidered him little better than a bar- 

donians were of the same blood as the barian, "who had at most put on 

Greeks. Their kings undoubtedly some superficial varnish of Hellenic 

were, but Grote, influenced by his culture.' See on this point Freeman's 

antipathy to Alexander, who had Historical Essays, vol. ii. pp. 192-201, 

crushed the liberties of Greece, con- 3rd ed. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 251 

and brandishing his club would have brained him with it, 
had he not been prevented by the king. 

The result of the match was mortifying not only to the 
Macedonians, but even to Alexander himself, for he saw 
with vexation that the vaunted bravery of the Mace- 
donians had fallen into contempt with the barbarians who 
attended the spectacle. This made the king lend his ear 
all too readily to the accusations of those who owed 
Dioxippus a grudge. So at a feast which he attended a few 
days afterwards a golden bowl was by a private arrange- 
ment secretly taken off the table, and the attendants went 
to the king to complain of the loss of the article which 
they themselves had hidden. It often enough happens 
that one who blushes at a false insinuation has less con- 
trol of his countenance than one who is really guilty. 
Dioxippus could not bear the glances which were turned 
upon him as if he were the thief, and so when he had left 
the banquet he wrote a letter which he addressed to the 
king, and then killed himself with his sword. The king 
took his death much to heart, judging that the man had 
killed himself from sheer indignation, and not from remorse 
of conscience, especially since the intemperate joy of his 
enemies made it clear that he had been falsely accused. 



Chapter VIII. — Alexander receives the submission of the 
Malli — Invades the Musicani and the Praesti, whose 
kingPorticanusis slain — Henext attacks King Sambus, 
many of whose cities surrendered — Musicanus having 
revolted is captured and executed — Ptolemy is wounded 
by a poisoned arrow in the kingdom of Sambus, but 
recovers — Alexander reaches Patala and sails down 
the Indus 

The Indian ambassadors were dismissed to their several 
homes, but in a few^ days they returned with presents for 
Alexander which consisted of 300 horsemen, 1030 chariots 
each drawn by four horses, 1000 Indian bucklers, a great 



252 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

quantity of linen-cloth, ioo talents of steel, 1 some tame 
lions and tigers of extraordinary size, the skins also of 
very large lizards, and a quantity of tortoise shells. 2 The 
king commanding Craterus to move forward in advance 
with his troops and to keep always near the river, down 
which he intended himself to sail, took ship along with his 
usual retinue, and dropping down stream came to the 
territories of the Malli. 3 Thence he marched towards the 
Sabarcae,* a powerful Indian tribe where the form of 
government was democratic and not regal. Their army 
consisted of 60,000 foot and 6000 cavalry attended by 
SOO chariots. 

They had elected three generals renowned for their 
valour and military skill ; but when those who lived near 
the river, the banks of which were most thickly studded 
with their villages, 5 saw the whole river as far as the eye 
could reach covered with ships, and saw besides the many 
thousands of men and their gleaming arms, they took 
fright at the strange spectacle and imagined that an army 
of the gods and a second Father Bacchus, a name famous 
in that country, were coming into their midst The 
shouts of the soldiers and the noise of the oars, together 
with the confused voices of the sailors encouraging each 

1 ' ' The sword blades of India had India of the Edinburgh Cabinet 

a great fame over the East, and Indian Library, III. c. v. pp. 136-144. 
steel, according to esteemed authori- 3 Alexander had, however, by this 

ties, continued to be imported into time taken their capital. We learn 

Persia till days quite recent. Its fame from Arrian (Indika, c 4) that their 

goes back to very old times. Ktesias dominions extended to the junction of 

mentions two wonderful swords of the Akesines with the Indus, 
such material that he got from the 4 Lassen identifies this people with 

King of Persia and his mother. It is the SamiasJai of Diodoros. Orosius 

perhaps the ferrum candidum of which calls them the Safagrat: In Arrian 

the Malli and Oxydracae sent ioo the Samiastai appear as the A bastamiy 

talents' weight as a present to Alex- a name which transliterates the Sans- 

ander. Indian iron and steel are krit word avasthSna, which means, 

mentioned in the rcriplus as im- however, "a dwelling-place," and 

ports into the Abyssinian ports." See does not denote a people. See note 

Yule's Marco Polo, i. p. 94. on Arrian, \\ 155. 

a We learn from the Pm'plus of 6 Two other tribes are mentioned 

the Erythraean Sea that tortoise and by Arrian as having sent deputies to 

other shells formed an important Alexander while in camp near the 

element in the ancient commerce of confluence, the Xathroi and the Ossa- 

the East with the West. For an dioi, concerning whom see notes on 

account of Indian shells see British Arrian, p. 156. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 253 

other, so filled their alarmed ears that they all ran off to 
the army and cried out to the soldiers that they would be 
mad to offer battle to the gods, that the number of ships 
carrying these invincible warriors was past all counting. 1 
By these reports they created such a terror in the ranks 
of their own army that they sent ambassadors com- 
missioned to surrender their whole nation to Alexander. 

Having received their submission, he came on the fourth 
day after to other tribes which had as little inclination for 
fighting as their neighbours. Here therefore he built a 
town, which by his orders was called Alexandrea, 2 and 
then he entered the country of the people known as the 
Musicani. 3 While he was here he held an enquiry into 
the complaints advanced by the Parapamisadae against 
Terioltes, 4 whom he had made their satrap, and, finding 
many charges of extortion and tyranny proved against 
him, he sentenced him to death. On the other hand 
Oxyartes, the governor of the Bactriani, was not only 
acquitted, but, as he had claims upon Alexander's affec- 
tions, was rewarded with an extension of the territory 
under his jurisdiction. Having thereafter reduced the 
Musicani, Alexander put a garrison into their capital, and 
marched thence into the country of the Praesti, another 
Indian tribe. 6 Their king was Porticanus, and he with a 
great body of his countrymen had shut himself up within 
a strongly-fortified city. Alexander, however, took it after 
a three days' siege. Porticanus, who had taken refuge 
within the citadel after the capture of the city, sent 

1 Their alarm would no doubt be colours. It was with a purple sail 

increased by the sight of the many Cleopatra came with Antony to 

coloured flags of the vessels, as we Actium, and fled therefrom. This 

may infer from the words of Pliny was the colour of the admiral's 

(xix. 1) : " The first attempt at dyeing ensign." 

canvas with the costliest hues for 2 Chachar opposite Mithankot, a 

dyeing wearing apparel was made in little below the great confluence. See 

the fleets of Alexander the Great when Note on Arrian. . 
he was navigating the river Indus, for 3 See Note on Arrian, p. 1 56. 

then his generals and prefects had 4 Called Tyriaspes by Arrian. 

distinguished by differences of colour Oxyartes was Alexander's fatber-in- 

the^ ensigns of their vessels, and the law. 

natives along the shore were lost in 5 For the Praesti and Porticanus 

amazement at the variety of their see Note to Arrian, p. 158. 



254 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

deputies to the king to arrange about terms of capitula- 
tion. Before they reached him, however, two towers had 
fallen down with a dreadful crash, and the Macedonians 
having made their way through the ruins into the citadel, 
captured it and slew Porticanus, who with a few others 
had offered resistance. 

Having demolished the citadel and sold all the 
prisoners, he marched into the territories of King Sambus, 
where he received the submission of numerous towns. 1 
The strongest, however, of all the cities which belonged to 
this people, he took by making a passage into it under- 
ground. To the barbarians, who had no previous know- 
ledge of this device for entering fortified places, it seemed 
as if a miracle had been wrought when they saw armed 
men rise out of the ground in the middle of their city 
almost without any trace of the mine by which they 
had entered being visible. 2 Clitarchus says that 80,000 
Indians were slain in that part of the country, and that 
numerous prisoners were sold as slaves. The Musicani 
again rebelled, and Pithon being sent to crush them, 
brought the chief of the tribe, who was also the author of 
the insurrection, to the king, who ordered him to be cruci- 
fied, and then returned to the river, where the fleet was 
waiting for him. 

The fourth day thereafter he sailed down the river to a 
town that lay at the very extremity of the kingdom of 
Sambus. That prince had but lately surrendered himself 
to Alexander, but the people of the city refused to obey 
him, and had even closed their gates against him. The 
king, however, despising the paucity of their numbers, 
ordered 500 Agrianians to go close up to the walls and 
then to retire by little, in order to entice the enemy 
from the town, who would in that case certainly pursue 
under the belief that they were retreating. The Agrianians, 
after some skirmishing, suddenly showed their backs to 
the enemy as they had been ordered, and were hotly pur- 

1 See Note S. similar device, and to the great as- 

Aurengzeb captured Surat by ,1 tonishment of the inhabitants. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 255 

sued by the barbarians, who fell in with other troops led 
by the king in person. The fighting was therefore 
renewed, with the result that out of the 3000 barbarians 
who were in the action, 600 were killed, 1000 taken 
prisoners, and the rest driven back into the city. But 
this victory did not end so happily as at first sight it 
promised to do, for the barbarians had used poisoned 
swords, and the wounded soon afterwards died ; while the 
surgeons were at a loss to discover why a slight wound 
should be incurable, and followed by so violent a death. 
The barbarians had been in hopes that the king, who 
was known to be rash and reckless of his safety, might be 
in this way cut off, and in fact it was only by sheer good 
luck that he escaped untouched, fighting as he did among 
the very foremost. 

Ptolemy was wounded in the left shoulder, slightly 
indeed, but yet dangerously on account of the poison, and 
his case caused the king especial anxiety. He was his 
own kinsman ; some even believed that Philip was his 
father, and it is at all events certain that he was the son 
of one of that king's mistresses. He was a member of 
the royal body-guard, and the bravest of soldiers. At the 
same time, he was even greater and more illustrious in 
civil pursuits than in war itself. He lived in a plain style 
like men of common rank, was liberal in the extreme, easy 
too of access, and a man who gave himself none of the 
high airs so often assumed by courtiers. These qualities 
made it doubtful whether he was more loved by the king 
or by his countrymen. At all events, now that his life 
was in danger, he was for the first time made aware of the 
great affection entertained for him by the Macedonians, 
who by this time seem to have presaged the greatness to 
which he afterwards rose, for they showed as much solicitude 
for him as they did for Alexander himself. Alexander, 
again, though fatigued with fighting and anxiety, sat 
watching over Ptolemy, and when he wished to take some 
rest, did not leave the sick-room, but had his bed brought 
into it. 



256 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

He had no sooner laid himself down than he fell into 
a profound sleep, from which, when he awoke, he told his 
attendants that in a vision he had seen a creature in the 
form of a serpent carrying in its mouth a plant, which it 
offered him as an antidote to the poison. He gave 
besides such a description of the colour of the plant as 
he was sure would enable any one falling in with it to 
recognise it. The plant was found soon afterwards, as 
many had gone to search for it, and was laid upon the 
wound by Alexander himself. The application at once 
removed the pain and speedily cicatrised the wound. 1 
The barbarians finding themselves disappointed of their 
first hopes, surrendered themselves and their city. 

Alexander marched thence into the Patalian territory. 
Its king was Moeres, 2 but he had abandoned the town 
and fled for safety to the mountains. Alexander then 
took possession of the place, and ravaged the surrounding 
country, from which he carried off a great booty of sheep 
and cattle, besides a great quantity of corn. After this, 
taking some natives acquainted with the river to pilot his 
way, he sailed down the stream to an island which had 
sprung up almost in the middle of the channel. 3 



Chapter IX. — Perils encountered on tlie voyage down the 
western arm of the Indus to t/ie sea — Alexander 
returns from the mouth of tlie river to Patala 

Here he was obliged to make a longer stay than he 
had anticipated, because the pilots, finding they were not 
strictly guarded, had absconded. He then sent out a 
party of his men to search for others. They returned 
without finding any, but his unquenchable ambition to 

1 According to Diodoros this hap- may be constructed from Mahar&jah, 

pened in the neighbourhood of Har- "grc.it king." For identification of 

matelia, for conjectures as to the Patala see Note U. 
position of which see Note T. Strabo 3 This island is called by Arrian 

says it happened in the country of Killouta, and by Plutarch Skilloustis. 

the Oreilai. See Note on Arrian, p. 164. 

- It has been thought this name 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 257 

see the ocean and reach the boundaries of the world, made 
him entrust his own life and the safety of so many gallant 
men to an unknown river without any guides possessed of 
the requisite local knowledge. They thus sailed on ignorant 
of everything on the way they had to pass. It was entirely 
left to haphazard and baseless conjecture how far off they 
were from the sea, what tribes dwelt along the banks, 
whether the river was placid at its mouth, and whether 
it was thereabouts of a depth sufficient for their war-ships. 
The only comfort in this rash adventure was a confident 
reliance on Alexander's uniform good fortune. The ex- 
pedition had in this manner now proceeded a distance of 
400 stadia, when the pilots brought to his notice that 
they began to feel sea -air, and that they believed the 
ocean was not now far off. 

The king, elated by the news, exhorted the sailors to 
bend to their oars. The end of their labours, he said, for 
which they had always been hoping and praying, was 
close at hand; nothing was now wanting to complete 
their glory ; nothing left to withstand their valour. They 
could now, without the hazard of fighting, without any 
bloodshed, make the whole world their own. Even nature 
herself could advance no farther, and within a short time 
they would see what was known to none but the immortal 
gods. He nevertheless sent a small party ashore in a 
boat in order to take some of the natives straggling about, 
from whom he hoped some correct information might be 
obtained. After all the huts near the shore had been 
searched, some natives at last were found hidden away in 
them. These, on being asked how far off the sea was, 
answered that they had never so much as heard of such a 
thing as the sea, but that on the third day they might 
come to water of a bitter taste which corrupted the fresh 
water. From this it was understood they meant the sea, 
whose nature they did not understand. The mariners 
therefore plied their oars with increased alacrity, and still 
more strenuously on the following day as they drew 
nearer to the fulfilment of their hopes. 

S 



2 5 8 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

On the third day they observed that the sea, coming 
up with a tide as yet gentle, began to mingle its brine 
with the fresh water of the river. Then they rowed out 
to another island that lay in the middle of the river, 
making, however, slower progress in rowing since the 
stream of the river was now beaten back by the force of 
the tide. They put in to the shore of the island, and 
such as landed ran hither and thither in quest of provi- 
sions, never dreaming of the mishap which was to over- 
take them from their ignorance of tides. It was now 
about the third hour of the day when the ocean, under- 
going its periodic change, rose in flood-tide, and began to 
burst upon them and force back the current of the river, 
which being at first retarded, and then more violently 
repelled, was driven upward contrary to its natural direc- 
tion with more than the impetuosity of rivers in flood 
rushing down precipitous beds. The men in general 
were ignorant of the nature of the sea, and so, when they 
saw it continually swelling higher, and overflowing the 
beach which before was dry, they looked upon this as 
something supernatural by which the gods signified their 
wrath against their rash presumption. 

When the vessels were now fairly floated, and the 
whole squadron scattered in different directions, the men 
who had gone on shore ran back in consternation to the 
ships, confounded beyond measure by a calamity of a 
nature so unexpected. But amid the tumult their haste 
served only to mar their speed. Some were to be seen 
pushing the vessels with poles ; others had taken their 
seats to row, but in doing so had meanwhile been pre- 
venting the proper adjustment of the oars. Others again, 
in hastening to sail out into the clear channel, without 
waiting for the requisite number of sailors and pilots, 
worked the vessels to little effect, crippled as these were 
and otherwise difficult to handle. At the same time 
several other vessels drifted away with the stream before 
those who were pell-mell crowding into them could all 
get on board, and in this case the crowding caused as 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 259 

much delay in hurrying off as did the scarcity of hands 
in the other vessels. From one side were shouted orders 
to stay, from another to put off, so that amid this con- 
fusion of contradictory orders nothing that was of any 
service could be seen or even heard. In such an emer- 
gency the pilots themselves were useless, since their 
commands could neither be heard for the uproar, nor 
executed by men so distracted with terror. 

The ships accordingly ran foul of each other, broke 
away each other's oars, and bumped each other's sterns. 
A spectator could not have supposed that what he saw 
was the fleet of one and the same army, but rather two 
hostile fleets engaged in a sea-fight. Prows were dashed 
against poops, and vessels that damaged other vessels in 
front of them were themselves damaged in turn by vessels 
at their stern. The men, as was but natural, lost their 
temper, and from high words fell to blows. By this time 
the tide had overflowed all the level lands near the river's 
edge, leaving only sandheaps visible above the water 
like so many islands. To these numbers of the men 
swam for safety, neglecting through fear the safety of the 
vessels they quitted, some of which were riding in very 
deep water where depressions existed in the ground, while 
others were stranded on shoals where the waves had covered 
the more or less elevated parts of the channel. But now 
they were suddenly surprised with a new danger, still greater 
than the first, for the sea, which had begun to ebb, was 
rushing back whence it came with a strong current, and 
was rendering back the lands which just before had been 
deeply submerged. This pitched some of the stranded 
vessels upon their sterns, and caused others to fall upon 
their sides, and that too with such violence that the fields 
around them were strewn with baggage, arms, broken oars, 
and wreckage. 

The soldiers, meanwhile, neither dared to trust them- 
selves to the land nor to leave their ships, as they dreaded 
that some calamity, worse than before, might at any 
moment befall them. They could scarcely indeed believe 



2 6o THE INVASION OF INDIA 

what they saw and experienced, these shipwrecks upon 
dry land, and the presence of the sea in the river. Nor 
did their misfortunes end here, for as they did not know 
that the tide would soon afterwards bring back the sea 
and float their ships, they anticipated that they would be 
reduced by famine to the most dismal extremities. To 
add to their terror monstrous creatures of frightful aspect, 
which the sea had left behind it, were seen wandering 
about. 

As night drew on the hopelessness of the situation 
oppressed even the king himself with harassing anxieties. 
But no care could ever daunt his indomitable spirit, and 
great as was his anxiety it did not prevent him from 
remaining all night on the watch and giving out his 
orders. He even sent some horsemen to the mouth 
of the river with instructions that when they saw the tide 
returning they should go before it and announce its 
approach. Meanwhile he caused the shattered vessels 
to be repaired, and those that were overturned to be set 
upright, at the same time ordering the men to be ready 
and on the alert when the land would be inundated by 
the return of the tide. The whole of that night had 
been spent by the king in watching and addressing words 
of encouragement to his men, when the horsemen came 
back at full gallop, with the tide following at their heels. 
It came at first with a gentle current which sufficed to set 
the ships afloat, but it soon gathered strength enough to 
set the whole fleet in motion. Then the soldiers and 
sailors, giving vent to their irrepressible joy at their 
unexpected deliverance, made the shores and banks re- 
sound with their exulting cheers. They asked each 
other wonderingly wherefrom so vast a sea had suddenly 
returned, whereto it had retired the day before, what was 
the nature of this strange element, which at one time was 
out of harmony with the natural laws of space, but at 
another was obedient to some fixed laws in respect of 
time ? l The king conjecturing from what had happened 

1 Sec Note Cg, Tides in Indian Rivers. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 261 

that the tide would return after sunrise, took advantage 
of it, and starting at midnight sailed down the river 
attended by a few ships, and having passed its mouth, 
advanced into the sea a distance of 400 stadia, and thus 
at last accomplished the object he had so much at heart. 
Having then sacrificed to the tutelary gods of the sea and 
of the places adjacent, he took the way back to his fleet. 



Chapter X. — Alexander goes Jwmeward by land, leaving 
Nearchus to folloiv by sea and conduct the fleet to the 
head of the Persian Gulf- — Disastrous march through 
Gedrosia — Alexander arrives in Carmania, where he 
holds Bacchic revels to celebrate his conquests 

He sailed thence up the river, and next day reached 
a place of anchorage not far from a salt lake, 1 the peculiar 
properties of which being unknown to his men, deceived 
those who thoughtlessly bathed in its waters. For scabs 
broke out over their bodies, and the disease being con- 
tagious, infected even others who had not bathed. The 
application of oil, however, cured the sores. Then as the 
country through which the army was to pass was dry and 
waterless, Alexander sent on Leonnatus in advance to 
dig wells, while he remained himself with the troops 
where he was, waiting for the arrival of spring. In the 
meantime he built a good many cities, 2 and ordered 
Nearchus and Onesicritus, who were experienced navi- 
gators, to sail with the stoutest ships down to the ocean, 
and proceeding as far as they could with safety to make 
themselves acquainted with the nature of the sea. 

1 This lake, however, was dis- the circumference of the pettah or 
covered neither on this voyage nor on town is all that falls to the share of 
this arm of the Indus, but during =1 the founder. The habitations are 
subsequent voyage which Alexander raised in u few days or hours. . . 
made down the eastern arm. The Soldan of Egypt insults Timour 

2 "No magnificent idea," says by telling him: 'The cities of the 
Vincent, " is requisite to conceive the East are built of mud, and ephemeral ; 
building of cities in the East. A fort ours in Syria and Egypt are of stone, 
or citadel with a mud wall to mark and eternal.' " 



262 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Having done this, they might return to join him by 
sailing up either the same river or the Euphrates. 1 

The winter being now wellnigh over, he burned the 
useless ships, and marched homeward with his army by 
land. In the course of nine encampments he reached 
the land of the Arabites, and in nine more the land of 
the Cedrosii — a free people, who agreed to surrender 
after holding a council to consider the subject. As they 
surrendered voluntarily, nothing was exacted from them 
except a supply of provisions. On the fifth day there- 
after he came to a river, which the natives called the 
Arabus, and beyond it he found the country barren and 
waterless. This he traversed, and so entered the 
dominions of the Oritae. Here he gave Hephaestion 
the great bulk of the army, and divided the rest of it, 
consisting of light-armed troops, between Ptolemy, Leon- 
natus, and himself. These three divisions plundered the 
Indians simultaneously, and carried off a large booty. 
Ptolemy devastated the maritime country, while the king 
himself and Leonnatus between them ravaged all the 
interior. Here too he built a city, which he peopled 
with Arachosians. 2 Thence he came to those Indians 
who inhabit the sea-coast, possessing a great extent of 
country, and holding no manner of intercourse even with 
their next neighbours. 

This isolation from the rest of the world has brutalised 
their character, which even by nature is far from humane. 
They have long claw-like nails and long shaggy hair, for 
they cut the growth of neither. They live in huts con- 
structed of shells and other offscourings of the sea. 
Their clothing consists of the skins of wild beasts, and 

1 Nearchos with the fleet rejoined was built by Leonnatos by Alexander's 

the army at a point on the river, orders on the confines of the Arian 

Pasitigris or Karun, near the modern nation. It may also be the fifteenth 

village of Ahwaz, where was a bridge of the Alexandreias of Stephanos Byz., 

by which Alexander led his army which he places in the country of the 

from Persis to Sousa, where he arrived Arachosians next to India. It was 

February 324 B.C. perhaps, however, the Portits Alex- 

The Alexandria of Diodoros, aiidri, now Karachi, where Nearchos 

and probably also the Alexandria was detained by the prevalence of the 

which, as we learn from Pliny (vi. 25), monsoon for twenty-four days. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 263 

they feed on fish dried in the sun, and on the flesh of 
sea monsters cast on the shore during stormy weather. 1 
The Macedonians having by this time consumed all their 
provisions, suffered first from scarcity and at last from 
hunger, so that they were driven to search everywhere for 
the roots of the palm, which is the only tree that country 
produces. When even this kind of food failed them, they 
began to kill their beasts of burden, and did not spare 
even their horses. They were thus deprived of the 
means of carrying their baggage, and had to burn the 
rich spoils taken from their enemies, for the sake of 
which they had marched to the utmost extremities of the 
East. 

A pestilence succeeded the famine, for the new juices 
of the unwholesome esculents on which they fed, super- 
added to the fatigue of marching and the strain of their 
mental anxiety, had spread various distempers among 
them, so that they were threatened with destruction 
whether they remained where they were or resumed 
their march. If they stayed famine would assail them, 
and if they advanced a still deadlier enemy, pestilence, 
would have them in its grasp. The plains were in 
consequence bestrewn with almost more bodies of the 
dying than of the dead. Even those who suffered least 
from the distemper could not keep pace with the main 
army, because every one believed that the faster he travelled 
he advanced the more surely to health and safety. The 
men, therefore, whose strength failed craved help from 
all and sundry, whether known to them or unknown. 
But there were no beasts of burden now by which they 
could be taken on, and the soldiers had enough to do to 
carry their arms, whilst at the same time the dreadful 
figure of the calamity impending over themselves was 
ever before their eyes. Being thus repeatedly appealed 

1 Hence their name Ichthyopkagoi. scarcity of provisions. See Arrian's 

They inhabited the maritime parts of Indika, 24-31. Much may also be 

the Oreitai and Gedrosians. In sail- read of this people in Strabo, Pliny, 

ing along their coast Nearchos and Ailianos, and Agatharchides. 
his men suffered great hardships from 



264 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

to, they could not so much as bear to cast back a look 
at their comrades, their pity for others being lost in their 
fears for themselves. 

Those, on the other hand, who were thus forsaken, 
implored the king, in the name of the gods and by the 
rites of their common religion, to help them in their sore 
need, and when they found that they vainly importuned 
deaf ears, their despair turned to frantic rage, so that 
they fell to imprecations, wishing for those who refused 
to help them a similar death and similar friends. The 
king, feeling himself to be the cause of so great a 
calamity, was oppressed with grief and shame, and sent 
orders to Phrataphernes, the satrap of the Parthyaeans, 1 to 
forward him upon camels provisions ready cooked, and 
he also notified his wants to the governors of the adjacent 
provinces. In obedience to his orders the supplies were 
at once forwarded, and the army being thus rescued, 
from famine at least, reached eventually the frontiers of 
Cedrosia, a region which alone of all these parts produces 
everything in great abundance. Here, therefore, he 
halted for some time to refresh his harassed troops by 
an interval of repose. 

Meanwhile he received a letter from Leonnatus report- 
ing that he had defeated the Oritae, who had brought 
against him a force of 8000 foot and 300 horse. Word 
came also from Craterus that he had crushed an incipient 
rebellion, instigated by two Persian nobles, Ozines and 
Zariaspes, whom he had seized and placed under custody. 
On leaving this place Alexander appointed Sibyrtius to 
be governor of that province in succession to Memnon, 
who had lately been cut off by some malady, and he 
then marched into Carmania, which was governed by the 
satrap Aspastes, whom he suspected of having designed 
to make himself independent while he was a great 
distance off in India. Aspastes came to meet Alex- 
ander, who, dissembling his resentment, received him 

Arrian (vi. 27) says, however, visions spontaneously. Diodoros is 
that Phrataphernes brought the pro- at one with Curtius on the point. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 265 

graciously, and let him remain in office till he could 
inquire into the charges preferred against him. Then 
as the different governors, in compliance with his de- 
mands, had sent him a large supply of horses and draught 
cattle from their respective provinces, he accommodated 
all his men who wanted them with horses and waggons. 
He restored also their arms to their former splendour, 
for they were now not far from Persia, which was a rich 
country and in the enjoyment of profound peace. 

So then Alexander, whose soul aspired to more than 
human greatness, since he had rivalled, as we said before, 
the glory which Father Bacchus had achieved by his 
conquest of India, resolved also to match his reputation 
by imitating the Bacchanalian procession which that 
divinity first invented, whether that was a triumph or 
merely some kind of frolic with which his Bacchanals 
amused themselves. To this end he ordered the streets 
through which he was to pass to be strewn with flowers 
and chaplets, and beakers and other capacious vessels 
brimming with wine to be placed at all the house doors. 
Then he ordered waggons to be made, each capable of 
holding many soldiers, and these to be decorated like 
tents, some with white canvas and others with costly 
tapestry. 

The king headed the procession with his friends and 
the members of his select body-guard, wearing on their 
heads chaplets made of a variety of flowers. The strains 
of music were to be heard in every part of the procession, 
here the breathings of the flute, and there the warblings 
of the lyre. All the army followed, feasting and carous- 
ing as they rode in the waggons, which they had 
decorated as gaily as they possibly could, and had hung 
round with their choicest and showiest weapons. The 
king himself and the companions of his revelry rode in a 
chariot, which groaned under the weight of goblets of 
gold and large drinking cups made of the same precious 
metal. The army for seven days advanced in this 
bacchanalian fashion, so that it might have fallen an 



266 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

easy prey to the vanquished if they had but had a spark 
of spirit to attack it when in this drunken condition. 
Why, a thousand men only, if with some mettle in them 
and sober, could have captured the whole army in the 
midst of its triumph, besotted as it was with its seven 
days' drunken debauch. 

But fortune, which assigns to every thing its fame and 
value in the world's estimation, turned into glory this 
gross military scandal; and the contemporaries of Alexander, 
as well as those who came after his time, regarded it as a 
wonderful achievement, that his soldiers, though drunk, 
passed in safety through nations hardly as yet sufficiently 
subdued, the barbarians taking, what was in reality a 
piece of great temerity, to be a display of well-grounded 
confidence. 1 All this grand exhibition, however, had the 
executioner in its wake, for the satrap Aspastes, of whom 
we before made mention, was ordered to be put to death. 2 
So true is it that cruelty is no obstacle to the indulgence 
of luxury, nor luxury to the indulgence of cruelty. 

1 This description is much over- example of their chiefs and of Alex- 
drawn. Thirlwall thus remarks upon ander himself; " and this was probably 
it : " We cannot wonder that, in the the main ground of fact for the esag- 
enjoyment of pleasures, from which geration of later writers, 
they had been so long debarred, they 2 Arrian alludes to his execution in 
abandoned themselves to some ex- his Indika, u. 36. 
cesses, perhaps only following the 



DIODOROS SICULUS 



BIBLIOTHECA HISTORICA OF DIODOROS 
SICULUS 

Seventeenth Book 

Chapter LXXXIV. — Alexander at Mas saga — His 
treachery towards the Indian mercenaries who had 
capitulated 

When the capitulation on those terms had been 
ratified by oaths, the Queen [of Massaga], to show her 
admiration of Alexander's magnanimity, sent out to him 
most valuable presents, with an intimation that she would 
fulfil all the stipulations. Then the mercenaries at 
once, in accordance with the terms of the agreement, 
evacuated the city, and after retiring to a distance of 
eighty stadia, pitched their camp unmolested without 
thought of what was to happen. But Alexander, who 
was actuated by an implacable enmity against the 
mercenaries, and had kept his troops under arms ready 
for action, pursued the barbarians, and falling suddenly 
upon them, made a great slaughter of their ranks. The 
barbarians at first loudly protested that they were 
attacked in violation of sworn obligations, and invoked 
the gods whom he had desecrated by taking false oaths 
in their name. But Alexander with loud voice retorted 
that his covenant merely bound him to let them depart 
from the city, and was by no means a league of perpetual 
amity between them and the Macedonians. The mercen- 
aries, undismayed by the greatness of their danger, drew 



2 7 o THE INVASION OF INDIA 

their ranks together in form of a ring, within which they 
placed the women and children to guard them on all 
sides against their assailants. As they were now 
desperate, and by their audacity and feats of valour, 
made the conflict in which they closed hot work for the 
enemy, while the Macedonians held it a point of honour 
not to be outdone in courage by a horde of barbarians, 
great was the astonishment and alarm which the peril of 
the crisis created. For as the combatants were locked 
together fighting hand to hand, death and wounds were 
dealt round in every variety of form. Thus the Mace- 
donians, when once their long spikes had shattered the 
shields of the barbarians, pierced their vitals with the 
steel points of these weapons, and on the other hand the 
mercenaries never hurled their javelins without deadly 
effect against the near mark presented by the dense ranks 
of the enemy. When many were thus wounded and not 
a few killed, the women, taking the arms of the fallen, 
fought side by side with the men, for the imminence of 
the danger and the great interests at stake forced them 
to do violence to their nature, and to take an active part 
in the defence. Accordingly some of them who had 
supplied themselves with arms, did their best to cover 
their husbands with their shields, while others who were 
without arms did much to impede the enemy by flinging 
themselves upon them and catching hold of their shields. 
The defenders, however, after fighting desperately along 
with their wives, were at last overpowered by superior 
numbers, and met a glorious death which they would 
have disdained to exchange for a life with dishonour. 1 
Alexander spared the unwarlike and unarmed multitude, 
as well as the women that still survived, but took them 
away under charge of the cavalry. 

1 This happened at Mazaga, the ander for this gross violation of the 
capital of Assakenos. Plutarch, it compact into which he had entered 
will be seen, justly condemns Alex- with the Indian mercenaries. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 271 



Chapter LXXXV. — Alexander captures the rock Aornos 

He took many other cities, and put to death all who 
offered resistance to his arms. He then advanced to the 
rock called Aornos, unto which such of the inhabitants as 
survived had fled for refuge, because it was a stronghold 
of incomparable security. 1 Herakles, it is said, had in 
the days of old assaulted this rock, but had abandoned 
the siege on the occurrence of violent earthquakes and 
signs from heaven. Now, when this story came to Alex- 
ander's ears, it only whetted his eagerness to attack the 
stronghold, and match himself against the god in a con- 
test for glory. The rock was 100 stadia in circuit, 16 
stadia in height, and had a level surface, forming a com- 
plete circle. On its southern side it was washed by the 
Indus, the greatest of Indian rivers, but elsewhere it was 
all environed with deep ravines and inaccessible cliffs. 
When Alexander, who perceived the difficult nature of the 
ground, had given up all hope of taking the place by 
assault, there came to him an old man accompanied by 
his two sons. He was miserably poor, this man, and had 
lived a long time in that neighbourhood, inhabiting a cave 
with three lairs cut into the rock, which served as night- 
quarters for himself and his sons. He had thus a familiar 
knowledge of all that locality. This old man then, com- 
ing to the king, explained to him what his circumstances 
were, and undertook to guide his army up the difficult 
ascent, and take him to a position which commanded the 
barbarians in occupation of the rock. Alexander pro- 
mised the man an ample recompense for this service, and 
in following his guidance seized in the first place the 
narrow pass which alone gave access to the rock, and, as 
there was no exit from it elsewhere, he so closely blocked 
up the enemy that no assistance could possibly reach 
them from any quarter. In the next place he set all his 
men to work to fill up with a mound the ravine which 

1 For its identification see Note F, Aornos. 



272 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

lay at the root of the rock. Having thus got nearer the 
place, he pushed the siege with all possible vigour, making 
assaults for seven days and as many nights without inter- 
mission, the troops taking duty by turns. The advantage, 
however, lay at first with the barbarians, who fought from 
a higher position, and killed many who pressed the attack 
too recklessly. But when the mound had been completed, 
and catapults which shot bolts to a great distance and 
other engines of war had been brought to bear against 
them, and when it became manifest besides that the king 
would by no means abandon the siege, the Indians were 
struck with despair. Alexander, whose sagacity foresaw 
what would occur, withdrew the guard which he had left 
at the pass, thus giving the men on the rock, if they 
wished to retire, a free passage out. So then the bar- 
barians, dismayed alike by the valour of the Macedonians 
and the king's fixed ambition to be master of the place, 
evacuated the rock by night. 

Chapter LXXXVI. — Alexander crosses the Indus, and is 
hospitably received by Taxiles 

Alexander having thus outwitted the Indians by these 
feints, obtained possession of the rock without risk being 
incurred. He then gave his guide the stipulated reward, 
and moved off with his army at the very time when 
Aphrikes, an Indian who had 20,000 soldiers and 15 
elephants, was hovering about in that locality. 1 This 
man certain of his followers put to death, and, having 
brought his head to Alexander, procured for this service 
their own safety. The king took them into his own ranks, 
and got possession of the elephants, which were wandering 
at large about the country. 

He then came to the river Indus, and, finding that the 

thirty-oared galleys which he ordered had been prepared, 

and the passage bridged, he gave his army a rest of thirty 

days to recruit their strength. Having then offered to 

1 Aphrikgs is called Eryx by Curtius. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 273 

the gods sacrifices on a magnificent scale, he led his army- 
over to the other side, where he met with an incident 
which took a strange and unexpected turn. For Taxiles 
being by this time dead, his son M6phis * had succeeded to 
the government. Now M6phis had before this not only 
sent word to Alexander, then in Sogdiana, that he would 
fight on his side against any Indians who might appear 
in arms against him, but at this juncture had also sent 
ambassadors to say that he surrendered his kingdom into 
his hands. So when Alexander was at a distance of forty 
stadia he set forth to meet him, attended by his friends, 
and his army drawn up in battle order and his elephants 
ranged in line. Alexander, seeing a great host advancing 
towards him drawn up as if for action, thought that the 
Indian had treacherously offered to surrender that he 
might thus fall upon the Macedonians before they could 
prepare for battle. He therefore ordered the trumpeters 
to sound to arms, and, having marshalled his troops, 
advanced to give the Indians battle. But M6phis, on 
seeing the commotion in the Macedonian ranks, and com- 
prehending its cause, left his army, and riding forward 
with a few of his friends, corrected the mistake into which 
the Macedonians had fallen, and surrendered himself and 
his army to the king. Alexander, to mark his approba- 
tion of this conduct, gave back his kingdom to Mophis, 
and ever afterwards treated him as a friend and ally. 
He also changed his name to Taxiles. 2 

Chapter LXXXVII. — Alexander marches against Poros 
— The appearance presented by the Indian army with 
its elephants 

Such were the transactions of this year — that in which 
Chremes was archon at Athens, and in which the Romans 

1 More correctly Omphis as given his decease, but waited till Alexander 

by Curtius. See Biog. Appendix, s.v. sanctioned his doing so. He then, 

Omphis. as a matter of course, along with the 

The father of Omphis had quite sovereignty assumed also the dynastic 

recently died, and Omphis did not title Taxilh. 
assume the sovereignty at once on 



2 74 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

appointed Publius Cornelius and Aulus Postumius consuls. 1 
Thereafter Alexander, who had recruited his army by an 
interval of rest in the country of Taxiles, took the field 
against P6ros, the king of the neighbouring Indians, who 
had an army of more than 50,000 foot, about 3000 horse, 
above IOOO chariots, and 130 elephants. This king had 
made an alliance with another prince called Embisaros, 2 
the ruler of an adjacent tribe, and who possessed an army 
which was but little inferior to his own. Alexander, on 
learning that this king was 400 stadia distant, resolved to 
attack Poros before his ally could reach him. P6ros, being 
warned of the near approach of the enemy, at once drew 
up his troops in order of battle. His cavalry he distributed 
on the wings, and his elephants he placed in his front 
line at equi-distances, and so arranged as to strike the 
enemy with terror. In the intervals between the animals 
he stationed the rest of his soldiers, instructing them to 
succour the elephants and protect them from being assailed 
in flank by the enemy's missiles. The whole disposition 

1 Alexander's campaign, in which the following year Spurius Postumius 
he conquered the country extending Albinus was master of the horse to 
from the Hindu Kush to the Indus, the Dictator Claudius Marcellus, but 
took place in the year 327 B.C. In I can find nowhere in the lists the 
the year following he marched east- name of Aulus Postumius as holding 
ward through the Panjab as far as the any office about that time. In Smith's 
Hyphasis, conquering on his way Classical Dictionary the year 327 B.C. 
P6ros and the Kathaians, and from appears as the annus mirabilis of 
the Hyphasis he retraced his way to Alexander's life, for early in the 
the Hydaspes. He then sailed down spring he completes the conquest 
that river, and then down the Ake- of Sogdiana and marries Roxana. 
sines into which it falls, until about Thereafter he returns to Baktra, then 
the end of the year he reached the marches to invade India, and cross- 
Indus. It will be seen from Arrian, ing the Hydaspes defeats Poros. He 
v. 19, that the battle with Poros was then marches to the Hyphasis, and 
fought in the archonship of Hegemon thence returns to the Hydaspes. In 
at Athens, whose year of office, it is the autumn he sails down the 
otherwise known, extended from the Hydaspes to the Indus ! See vol. 
28th of June 327 to the 17th of July iii. p. 1346 and vol. i. s.v. Alexander 
326 B.C. Hegemon was succeeded III. The events of two years are 
by Chremes, so that Diod6ros ante- thus compressed into the space of a 
•dates his archonship. He was archon single year. Clinton's chronology, 
after the defeat of Poros and not which is very confused for the period 
before. With regard to the two from 327 to 323, seems to have been 
consuls named, it does not appear that followed. 

they ever held the consulship simul- - His name appears in Arnan 

taneously. Publius Cornelius (Scipio more correctly as Abisares. He may 

Barbatus) was consul in 328 B.C. be described as the King of Kash- 

along with C. Plautius Decianus. In mlr. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 275 

of his army gave it very much the appearance of a city — 
the elephants as they stood resembling its towers, and the 
men-at-arms placed between them resembling the lines of 
wall intervening between tower and tower. But Alexander, 
having observed how the forces of the enemy had been 
disposed, regulated thereby the formation of his own line. 



Chapter LX XX VIII. — The defeat of Pdros 

The Macedonian cavalry began the action, and 
destroyed nearly all the chariots of the Indians. Upon 
this the elephants, applying to good use their prodigious 
size and strength, killed some of the enemy by trampling 
them under their feet, and crushing their armour and 
their bones, while upon others they inflicted a terrible 
death, for they first lifted them aloft with their trunks, 
which they had twined round their bodies, and then 
dashed them down with great violence to the ground. 
Many others they deprived in a moment of life by goring 
them through and through with their tusks. But the 
Macedonians heroically bore the brunt of this dreadful 
onslaught, and having killed with their long pikes the 
men stationed between the elephants, made the poise of 
the battle equal. They next assailed the animals them- 
selves with a storm of javelins, thus piercing them with 
numerous wounds, which so tortured them that the Indians 
mounted on their backs lacked sufficient strength to 
control their movements, for the animals on heading to 
their own ranks bore against them with an impetuosity 
not to be repressed, and trampled their own friends under 
their feet. Then ensued a great confusion, but Pdros, 
who was mounted on the most powerful of all his 
elephants, on seeing what had happened, gathered around 
him forty of the animals that were still under control, 
and falling upon the enemy with all the weight of the 
elephants, made a great slaughter with his own hand, for 
he far surpassed in bodily strength any soldier of his 



276 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

army. In stature he measured five cubits, while his girth 
was such that his breastplate was twice the size required 
for a man of ordinary bulk. For this reason the javelins 
he flung from his hand flew with all but the impetus of 
shots from a catapult. The Macedonians who stood 
opposed to him being terror-struck at his astonishing 
prowess, Alexander sent to their assistance the archers 
and the divisional light troops, with orders that every 
man should make Poros the object of his aim. The 
soldiers lost no time in carrying out these orders. Their 
bolts flew thick and fast, and as the Indian king at whom 
they were all aimed presented a broad mark, none of 
them failed to carry home. P6ros fought on with heroic 
courage, but being drained of blood by the number of his 
wounds, he fainted away, and leaning on his elephant for 
support, was borne to the ground. A report having 
spread that their king was dead, the remnant of the 
Indian host fled from the field, but many of them were 
slain in the flight. 



Chapter LXXXIX. — Losses sustained by each side in tie 
battle of tlie Hydaspes — Alexander orders a fleet to be 
built on the Hydaspes. 

Alexander having gained this splendid victory, recalled 
his soldiers from the field by sound of trumpet. In this 
engagement more than 1 2,000 of the Indians fell, among 
whom were two of the sons of Poros, and his generals, and 
the most distinguished of his other officers. More than 
9000 men were taken prisoners, and eighty elephants 
were captured. Pdros himself, who was still alive, was 
given into the hands of the Indians to be cured of his 
wounds. Of the Macedonians, there fell 2 So horsemen and 
more than 700 foot-soldiers. The king buried the dead, 
and in proportion to their merits rewarded those who had 
signalised themselves by their bravery in the action. He 
then sacrificed to the Sun, as the deity who had given 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 277 

him the conquest of the eastern parts of the world. As 
the mountainous country adjacent produced much well- 
grown fir, and not a little cedar and pine, besides an 
unlimited quantity of other kinds of timber fit for build- 
ing ships, he prepared what ships he required. For he 
intended, after he had reached the limits of India and 
subdued all its inhabitants, to sail down stream to the 
ocean. He founded two cities, one beyond the river at 
the place where he crossed, and the other on the field 
where he had defeated Pdros. 1 The work of building the 
ships was quickly finished, owing to the great number of 
hands employed on it ; and he then appointed Poros, who 
had recovered from his wounds, in consideration of the 
valour he had displayed, to be king of the country over 
which he had formerly ruled. He then gave his army 
thirty days to recruit in this region, which yielded an 
unstinted supply of all the necessaries of life. 



Chapter XC. — Some account of tlie serpents, apes, and trees 
seen by the Macedonians in India 

In the mountainous country which adjoined the scene 
of action there were found other peculiar products besides 
timber for shipbuilding, for it abounded with snakes of an 
extraordinary size, being sixteen cubits in length, 2 and 
with many kinds of apes, which also were remarkable for 
their size. The apes of themselves suggested what 
stratagem should be employed in hunting them, for they 
are prone to imitate whatever they see men doing, but 
yet are not easily overpowered by mere force, since they 
are possessed both of great strength of body and sharp- 
ness of wit. Some members, therefore, of the hunting 
party smear their eyes with honey, others in full view of 
their game put on their shoes, while others hang mirrors 
around their necks. Then, having affixed nooses to their 

1 Boukephala and Nikaia, for 2 See Note Z, Indian Serpents, 

which see Note on Arrian, p. 1 10. 



278 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

shoes, they leave these behind them, and in place of the 
honey they substitute gum, and at the same time attach 
hauling-ropes to the mirrors. So when the apes try to do 
all that they had seen done by the men they find them- 
selves powerless to do so, for their eyelids are glued 
together, their feet entangled in the nooses, and their 
bodies held fast by the ropes. In these circumstances 
they fall an easy prey to the hunters. 

Alexander having struck terror into the king called 
Embisaros, who had come too late to the assistance of 
Poros, compelled him to do what he commanded. Having 
then crossed the river with his army, he advanced through 
a country of surpassing fertility, for it had various kinds 
of trees which rose to a height of seventy cubits, and had 
such a girth that it took fully four men to clasp them 
round, while their shadow projected to a distance of 
300 feet. This region also was much infested with 
snakes. These were small in size, and marked with 
diverse colours, for while some were like bronze-coloured 
wands, others had a thick hair-like mane, and with their 
sting inflicted a death of acute pain, for the sufferings of 
any one they bit were dreadful, and were accompanied 
with a flux of sweat which looked like blood. On this 
account the Macedonians, being terribly plagued by their 
stings, suspended their couches from the trees, and kept 
awake the greater part of the night ; but when they had 
learned from the natives that a certain root was an anti- 
dote, its application relieved them from their sufferings. 1 

1 This is the whip-snake which is hour, foaming at the mouth. The 
thus described in British India of habit of the reptile is truly singular, 
the Edinburgh Cabinet Library, vol. for it seems to proceed neither from 
iii. pp. 121, 122 : " The whip snake resentment nor from fear, nor yet 
is common to the Concan, where it from the impulse of appetite; but 
conceals itself among the foliage of seems, ' more than any other known 
trees, and darts at the cattle grazing fact in natural history, to partake of 
below, generally aiming at the eye. that frightful and mysterious principle 
A bull, which was thus wounded at of evili which tempts our species so 
Dazagon, tore up the ground with often to tyrannize for mere wanton- 
extreme fury, and died in half an ness of power.'" 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 279 



Chapter X CI. — Alexander pursues PSros, nephew of the great 
PSros — Subdues the Adrestai and Kathaians and 
enters the kingdom of Sopeithes — Peculiar customs of 
the natives of these parts 

When he moved forward with his forces certain men 
came to inform him that Pdros, the king of the country, 
who was the nephew of that Pdros whom he had defeated, 
had quitted his kingdom and fled to the nation of the 
Gandaridai. Alexander, irritated at the news, despatched 
Hephaisti6n into his country with a body of troops and 
ordered him to hand over the kingdom to the other P6ros 
who was on his side. He then marched in person against 
the Adrestai, 1 and having reduced some of their cities 
which offered resistance, and persuaded others to surrender, 
he invaded the country of the Kathaians, a people among 
whom the custom prevailed that widows should be burned 
along with their husbands, the barbarians having put in 
force a decree to this effect because an instance had 
occurred of a wife procuring her husband's death by 
poison. 2 The king laid siege to their greatest and 
strongest city and burned it to the ground, in revenge for 
the many dangers incurred in capturing it. While he was 
besieging another considerable city the Indians in a sup- 
pliant manner entreated his mercy and he spared them 
accordingly. 

He next warred against the cities that were subject to 
the sway of Sdpeithes. 3 These were governed by laws in 
the highest degree salutary, for while in other respects 
their political system was one to admire, beauty was held 
among them in the highest estimation. For this reason a 
discrimination between the children born to them is made 
at the stage of infancy, when those that are perfect in 
their limbs and features, and have constitutions which 

1 The Adraistai of Arrian. See 2 More correctly S6phytes. See 
Note on that author, p. 116. Biog. Appendix, s.v. 

2 See Note It, Suttee. 




280 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

promise a combination of strength and beauty, are allowed 
to be reared, while those that have any bodily defect are 
condemned to be destroyed as not worth the rearing, 1 
They make their marriages also in accordance with this 
principle, for in selecting a bride they care nothing whether 
she has a dowry and a handsome fortune besides, but look 
only to her beauty and other advantages of the outward 
person. It follows that the inhabitants of these cities are 
generally held in higher estimation than the rest of their 
countrymen. Their king Sopeithes, 
who was admired by all for his beauty 
and his stature, which exceeded four 
cubits, came forth from the city where 
his palace was, and on surrendering 
Fig. i2.— s6phyt6s. himself and his kingdom to Alexander 
was reinstated in his authority by the 
clemency of the conqueror. Sopeithes with the utmost 
cordiality feasted the whole army in splendid style for 
several days. 

Chapter XCII. — Courage and ferocity of tlie dogs in 
the dominions of Sopeithes 

Among the many valuable presents which he bestowed 
on Alexander were 150 dogs remarkable for their size and 
strength, and superior also in other points, and said to 
have been bred from tigresses. 2 Being desirous that 
Alexander should have proof of their mettle by seeing 
them at work, he placed a full-grown lion within an 
enclosure, and selecting two of the least valuable of the 
dogs included in the present, cast them to the lion. When 
these were likely to be vanquished by the wild beast he let 
loose other two dogs. Then when the four dogs together 
proved more than a match for the lion, a man who was 
sent into the ring with a knife cut away the right leg of 
one of the dogs. When the king loudly remonstrated, 
and his body-guards rushed forward and arrested the hand 

1 This was also a Spartan institution. - See Note Bi. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 281 

of the Indian, S6peith£s announced that he would give 
three dogs instead of the one which was mutilated. Then 
the huntsman, taking hold of the leg, cut it away quietly 
bit by bit. The dog, without uttering so much as a yell 
or a moan of pain, kept his fangs fixed in the bite, until 
all his blood being drained he drew his last breath on the 
body of the lion. 



Chapter XCIII. — Submission of Phegeus — Advance to the 
Hypanis — Description given by Phegeus of tlie country 
beyond the Hypanis — Of the Praisians and their king 
Xandrames 

During these transactions Hephaistion, who had made 
large conquests of Indian territory with the expedition 
under his command, rejoined Alexander, who, after having 
praised that general for his valour and devotion to 
his service, then led his army into the dominions of 
Phegeus. 1 Here, as the natives welcomed the presence 
of the Macedonians, and Phegeus came out with many 
gifts to meet them, Alexander consented to let him retain 
his kingdom. Then having for two days enjoyed along 
with his army the noble hospitality of this prince, he 
advanced toward the Hypanis, 2 a river with a width of 
seven stadia, a depth of six fathoms, and a violent 
current which made its passage difficult. He had obtained 
from Phegeus a description of the country beyond the 
Indus : First came a desert which it would take twelve 
days to traverse ; beyond this was the river called the 
Ganges which had a width of thirty-two stadia, and a 
greater depth than any other Indian river ; beyond this 
again were situated the dominions of the nation of the 
Praisioi and the Gandaridai, 3 whose king, Xandrames, had 

1 More correctly Phegelas as given was sometimes, however, applied to 

by Arrian. See Biog. Appendix, s.v. the united stream, but this is con- 

' Usually called the Hyphasis. trary to Sanskrit usage. 

It is now the Beas which joins the 3 See Notes Cc and T>d. 
Satlej. The name of the Hyphasis 



282 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

an army of 20,000 horse, 200,000 infantry, 2000 chariots, 
and 4000 elephants trained and equipped for war. 
Alexander, distrusting these statements, sent for P6ros 
and questioned him as to their accuracy. P6ros assured 
him of the correctness of the information, but added that 
the king of the Gandaridai was a man of quite worthless 
character, and held in no respect, as he was thought to be 
the son of a barber. 1 This man — the king's father — was 
of a comely person, and of him the queen had become 
deeply enamoured. The old king having been treacher- 
ously murdered by his wife, the succession had devolved 
on him who now reigned. Alexander, though sensible of 
the difficulties which would attend an expedition against 
the Gandaridai, had nevertheless no thought of swerving 
from the path of his ambition, but having in his favour 
the courage of the Macedonians and the responses of the 
oracles, he was buoyed up with the hope that he would 
conquer the barbarians, for had not the Pythian priestess 
pronounced him invincible, and had not Ammon promised 
him the dominion of the whole world ? 2 



Chapter XCIV. — Miserable condition of the Macedonian 
army — Its refusal to advance beyond the Hypanis 

He saw, however, that his soldiers were dispirited by 
interminable campaigns, and by their exposure for nearly 
eight years to toils and dangers reduced to a condition 
of the utmost misery, and he therefore conceived it was 

1 The Indian barber {n&pit) be- (who espoused the party of the 
longed to the Sudra or servile caste. Persians in the time of Xerxes), and 
Besides the duties proper to his call- the spring had failed, it then re- 
ing, he has other avocations, his appeared on the arrizal of Alexander ; 
services being often required for the that the ambassadors also of the 
performance of certain domestic cere- Milesians carried back to Memphis 
monies such as those connected with numerous answers of the oracle 
marriage, etc. respecting the descent of Alexander 

2 " Kallisthenes adds (after the from Jupiter, and the future victory 
exaggerating style of tragedy) that which he should obtain at Arbela, the 
when Apollo had deserted the oracle death of Darius, and the political 
among the Hranchidai, on the temple changes at Lacedaemon " (Strabo, 
being plundered by the Branchidai XVII. i. 43). See also Introd. p. 28. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 283 

necessary for him to animate his troops for the expedition 
against the Gandaridai 1 by plying them with suitable 
arguments. For death had made severe ravages in his 
ranks, and all hope was gone that his wars would ever 
come to an end. Then their horses' hoofs had been worn 
off by ceaseless marches, and their weapons worn out by 
use. The Hellenic costumes again were by this time 
threadbare and could not be replaced, and hence the men 
were obliged to use cloth woven in barbaric looms where- 
with to cut out such dresses for themselves as were worn 
by Indians. It also so happened that violent storms of 
rain burst from the clouds for the space of seventy days, 
accompanied with continual outbreaks of thunder and 
lightning. Alexander, considering this state of things an 
obstacle to his designs, placed all his hopes of gaining his 
ends on winning by benefactions the hearty support of his 
soldiers. Accordingly he allowed them to plunder the 
enemy's country where supplies of all sorts abounded, and 
on those days when the army was busily engaged in 
foraging he called together the soldiers' wives and children, 
and then promised to give the women an allowance of 
food month by month, and the children a donative accord- 
ing to the calculations of what their fathers received as 
the pay of their military rank. When the soldiers who 
had found a rich and ample booty returned to the camp, 
he gathered them all together, and in a well-weighed 
speech addressed the assembly on the subject of the 
expedition against the Gandaridai ; but when the Mace- 
donians would by no means assent to his proposals he 
renounced his contemplated enterprise. 



Chapter XCV. — Alexander erects altars and other memorials 
near the Hypanis, and returns to the Akesines 

He then resolved to set up marks to indicate the 
limits to which he had advanced ; so first of all he built 

1 Properly the Gangaridai. 



284 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

altars to the twelve gods of 50 cubits in height. Having 
next enclosed an encampment thrice the size of the one he 
occupied, he dug round it a trench 50 feet broad and 40 
feet deep, and with the earth cast up from this trench 
he erected a rampart of extraordinary dimensions. He 
further ordered quarters to be constructed as for foot- 
soldiers, each containing two beds 5 cubits in length for 
each man, and besides this accommodation, two stalls of 
twice the ordinary size for each horseman. Whatever 
else was to be left behind was directed to be likewise 
proportionately increased in size. His object in all this 
was not merely to make a camp as for heroes, but at the 
same time to leave among the people of the country- 
tokens of mighty men to show with what enormous 
bodily strength they were endowed. When these works 
were finished he retraced his steps with all his army to 
the river Akesines. 1 On reaching it he found that the 
boats had been built, and when he had rigged these out, 
he ordered an additional number to be constructed. At 
this time there arrived from Greece allies and mercenaries 
led by the generals in command of the allies, amounting 
to more than 30,000 foot and not much less than 6000 
cavalry. Splendid full suits of armour besides were 
brought for the infantry to the number of 2 5,ooo, 2 and 
100 talents of medicinal drugs, all which he distributed 
among the soldiers. When the equipment of the fleet 
was finished, and 200 boats without hatches and 800 
tenders had been got ready, he proceeded to give names 
to the cities which had been founded on the banks of the 
river, calling one Nikaia in commemoration of his victory, 
and the other Boukephala after his horse that perished 
in the battle with P6ros. 

1 DiodSros should have said the Hydasph. 2 See Note on Curtius, p. 231. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 285 



Chapter XCVI. — Voyage to the Southern Ocean begun — 
Submission of the Siboi — The Agalassians attacked 
and conquered 

Alexander now embarked with his friends, and started 
on the voyage to the Southern Ocean. The bulk of the 
army simultaneously marched along the banks of the 
river under the command of Krateros and Hephaistidn. 
On coming to the place where the Akesin£s and Hydaspes 
join each other the king landed his troops, and led them 
against a people called the Siboi. These, it is said, were 
descended from the soldiers who, under Herakles, attacked 
the rock Aornos, and after failing to capture it were 
settled by him in this part of the country. Alexander 
encamped near their capital, and thereupon the citizens 
who filled the highest offices came forth to meet him, 
and reminded him how they were connected by the ties 
of a common origin. They avowed themselves to be, in 
virtue of their kinship, ready and willing to do whatever 
he might require, and presented him also with magnificent 
gifts. Alexander was so gratified by their professions of 
goodwill that he permitted their cities to remain in the 
enjoyment of their freedom. 1 He then advanced his 
arms against their next neighbours ; and finding that the 
people called Agalassians 2 had mustered an army of 
40,000 foot and 3000 horse, he gave them battle, and 
proving victorious put the greater number of them to the 
sword. The rest, who had fled for safety to the adjacent 
towns, which were soon captured, he condemned to 
slavery. The remainder of the inhabitants had been 
collected into one place, and he seized 20,000 of them, 
who had taken refuge in a large city, which he stormed. 
The Indians, however, having barricaded the narrow 
streets, fought with great vigour from the houses, so that 
Alexander in pressing the attack lost not a few Mace- 
donians. This enraged him, and he set fire to the city, 

1 See Note E«, The Sibi. 2 See Note ¥/, The Agalassians. 



286 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

burning with it most of its defenders. 1 He gave quarter, 
however, to 3000 of the survivors, who had fled for 
refuge to the citadel and sued for mercy. 



Chapter XCVII. — Disaster to the fleet at the confluence of 

the rivers 

He again embarked with his friends, and sailed down 
stream as far as the confluence of the Indus with the two 
rivers already mentioned. These mighty streams met 
with tumultuous roar, and formed at their junction many- 
formidable eddies, which destroyed whatever sailing craft 
were sucked into their vortex. The current besides was 
so swift and strong that it baffled all the skill of the 
pilots. Two ships of war foundered in consequence, and 
of the other vessels not a few were stranded. A furious 
surge broke over the admiral's ship itself — a mishap 
which nearly proved fatal to the king. Wherefore, as 
death itself stared him in the face, he stripped off his 
clothes, and in his naked condition clung to anything 
that offered a chance of safety. His friends were at 
the same time swimming alongside the ship, every one 
eager to receive the king in the event of its capsizing. 
The utmost confusion prevailed on board, the men con- 
tending with the force of the current, and the river 
baffling all human skill and endeavour, so that it was 
with the greatest difficulty Alexander made the shore, on 
which he was cast along with the vessels. For this un- 
expected deliverance he offered sacrifice to the gods for 
his escape from extreme peril after contending, like 
Achilles, with a river. 



2 



See Curtms, ix. 4. sented. For the contest of Achilles 

This happened at the junction with the Simoeis and Skamander, see 

of the Akesines with the HyJasfh the twenty-first book of the Iliad. 

and not with the Indus, as here repre- 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 287 



Chapter XCVIII. — Combination of the Syrakousai and 
Malloi — Alexander, neglecting the warning of a sooth- 
sayer, attacks their stronghold, and scales the walls of 
its citadel 

He undertook next an expedition against the Syra- 
kousai 1 and the people called the Malloi, two populous 
and warlike nations. The inhabitants, he found, had 
mustered a force of 80,000 foot, 10,000 horse, and 700 
chariots. Before Alexander's coming they had been at 
feud with each other, but on his approach had settled 
their differences, and cemented an alliance by inter- 
marriage, each nation taking and giving in exchange 
10,000 of their young women for wives. 2 They did not, 
however, combine their forces and take the field, for as a 
dispute had arisen about the leadership, they had drawn 
off into the adjoining towns. Alexander, while approach- 
ing the city that first came in his way, was pondering 
how he could lay siege to it and capture it at the very 
first assault, when one of the soothsayers, named 
D£moph6n, came to him and said that he had been 
forewarned by certain omens that the king in besieging 
the place would be very dangerously wounded, and he 
therefore advised Alexander to let that city alone for the 
present, and meanwhile turn his attention to other enter- 
prises. But the king sharply rebuked him for hampering 
the valour of men in the heat of action. He then made 
arrangements for the conduct of the siege, and he led 
himself the way to the city, which he was ambitious to 
reduce at once by a vigorous assault. The battering 
train was, however, late in coming up, and he was him- 

1 The Oxydrakai. easily understand why they did not 

2 "The two races (Oxydrakai and intermarry, and were seldom at peace 
Malloi) were composed of widely with each other, and that their mutual 
different elements, for the name of hostility was only suspended by the 
one appears to have been derived common danger which now threat- 
from that of the Sudra caste ; and it ened their independence."' — Thirlwall's 
is certain that the Brahmins were Hist, of Greece, vii. c. 54. 
predominant in the other. We can 



288 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

self the first to burst open a postern, and by this side 
entrance get into the city. He then cut down many of 
the defenders, put the rest to flight, and pursued them 
into the citadel. As the Macedonians were meanwhile 
detained fighting at the wall, he seized a ladder, and 
applying it to the rampart of the fortress, began to mount 
it, holding the while his shield above his head. He 
climbed up with such activity that he quickly reached 
the top, and surprised the barbarians who were stationed 
there on guard. The Indians did not venture to close 
with him, but assailed him from a distance off with darts 
and arrows, so that the king was sorely galled with the 
pelting storm of missiles. By this time the Macedonians 
had applied to the walls two scaling ladders, up which 
they were mounting, when both of them from being 
overcrowded broke down, precipitating every one to the 
ground. 



Chapter XCIX. — Alexander left alone leaps down from the 
walls into the citadel, bravely defends himself but is 
dangerously wounded — He is rescued by his friends^ 
who capture the stronghold — The Greek colonists in 
Bactria revolt 

The king being thus isolated from all help, performed 
a feat of marvellous audacity, which well deserves to be 
put on record. For, thinking it would be unworthy of 
his characteristic good fortune if he retired from the walls 
to his men leaving his purpose unaccomplished, he leaped 
down, arms and all, alone as he was, into the citadel. 
The Indians hastened up to assail him, but with un- 
daunted courage he sustained the brunt of their onslaught. 
Protecting himself on his right hand by the shelter of a 
tree rooted by the wall, and on the left by the wall itself, 
he thus kept the Indians at bay, firmly fixed in his pur- 
pose to bear himself right gallantly like a king by whom 
such great things had been achieved, and ambitious to 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 289 

make the close of his life the most glorious of his whole 
career, for numerous were the blows which he received on 
his helmet, nor few were those which he caught on his 
shield. At last, however, being hit by an arrow under 
the pap, he sank on his knee, overcome by the force 
of the blow. The Indian who had shot the arrow 
immediately sprang forward, thinking lightly of the danger, 
but while he was fetching down a blow, Alexander smote 
him with his sword under the ribs, and, as the wound was 
mortal, the barbarian fell. Then the king, grasping a 
branch within reach of his hand, and raising himself up 
with it, challenged any of the Indians who so wished to 
come forward and fight him. Just at this crisis Peukestas, 
one of the hypaspists, who had mounted by a different 
ladder, was the first who succeeded in covering the king 
with his shield. After him many others appeared on the 
scene, who terrified the barbarians and saved Alexander. 
The city was then stormed, and the Macedonians, in their 
rage for what the king had suffered, slew all whom they 
could anywhere find, and filled the city with dead bodies. 
While the king's attention was for many days absorbed 
with the curing of his wound, the Greek colonists of 
Bactria and Sogdiana, who had long felt it a great 
grievance to be settled among barbarians, when they 
heard at that time that the king had died of a wound, 
revolted from the Macedonians, and, having mustered to 
the number of 3000, set out on their return home. They 
had many sufferings to endure on the way, and they were 
subsequently put to death by the Macedonians after Alex- 
ander's death. 



Chapter C. — Alexander recovers from his wound — Combat 
between Koragos and Dioxippos — Dioxippos becomes 
victor 

Alexander, on being cured of his wound, gave thank- 
offerings to the gods for his recovery, and entertained his 

U 



2 go THE INVASION OF INDIA 

friends with great banquets. During the revels a note- 
worthy incident occurred. Among the invited guests was 
a Macedonian called Koragos, 1 who was remarkable for 
his great bodily strength and the number of his brave 
exploits in war. This man, in an access of drunken 
bravado, challenged to single combat the Athenian 
Dioxippos, a prize - fighter, who had been crowned at 
the public games for victories of the highest distinction. 
The guests present at the carousal naturally were in- 
terested in the match, and Dioxippos having accepted 
the challenge, the king fixed the day on which the 
combat should come off. At the time appointed for the 
match the people thronged in tens of thousands to witness 
the spectacle. The Macedonians, who were of the same 
race with Koragos, and the king himself joined in show- 
ing their eagerness for the success of their compatriot, 
while the Greeks were unanimous in backing up Dioxippos. 
The champions advanced into the lists, the Macedonian 
arrayed in costly armour, the Athenian naked, rubbed 
over with oil, and wearing a close-fitting skull-cap made 
of felt. As both men excited the wonder and admiration 
of the spectators by the massive strength of their limbs 
and their superlative prowess, the contest, it was antici- 
pated, would be of the nature of a fight between two 
gods ; for the Macedonian, with his stalwart form and 
the dazzling splendour of his arms, which filled the 
beholders with amazement, was taken to be like Mars, 
while Dioxippos, by his prodigious strength, his practice 
in wrestling and carrying the characteristic club, showed 
like Herakles. When they advanced to the attack the 
Macedonian from the proper distance discharged his 
javelin, but his antagonist, swerving a little aside, eluded 
the coming blow. Then the former again advanced with 
his long Macedonian pike levelled for the charge, but the 
other on seeing him approach sufficiently near, struck the 
pike with his club and shattered it to pieces. The Mace- 
donian, after being thus twice baffled, came on to the 

1 Called Horrtitas by Curtius. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 291 

next round intending now to use his sword, but when he 
was just on the point of drawing it, Dioxippos unex- 
pectedly sprang forward, and with his left hand seized the 
hand that was drawing the sword, while with his right 
hand he pushed Koragos from where he stood, tripped up 
his legs, and hurled him to the ground. Then Dioxippos, 
planting his foot on his foeman's neck and lifting up his 
club, directed his eyes towards the spectators. 



Chapter CI. — Tlie Macedonians plot against Dioxippos, who 
in consequence takes away his own life — Alexander 's 
regret for his loss 

The multitude having loudly applauded the victor for 
the supreme courage whereby, contrary to all expectation, 
he had won the day, the king ordered him to let his 
antagonist go, and then, dismissing the assembly, withdrew 
to his tent deeply mortified by the discomfiture of the 
Macedonian. Then Dioxippos, letting the fallen man go, 
quitted the field with a famous victory and wearing fillets 
with which his countrymen had adorned his brows in 
gratitude for the honour which he had conferred on all 
Greeks in common. Fortune, however, did not allow the 
victor any long time to enjoy his triumph, for the king 
became more and more alienated from him, and all Alex- 
ander's friends and all the Macedonians about the court 
were so envious of his worth and fame, that they laid a 
plot against him, and persuaded the chief steward of the 
royal household to hide away one of the golden wine-cups 
under his pillow. So at their next banquet when the wine 
was served, they charged Dioxippos with theft on the pre- 
tence that the cup had been found in his possession, thus 
subjecting him to shame and disgrace. From this he saw 
clearly that the Macedonians with one consent had set 
themselves against him, and he then rose from the banquet, 
and soon afterwards, when within his own chamber, wrote 
a letter to Alexander regarding the machinations which had 



292 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

been formed against him. This letter he entrusted to his 
own servants to deliver into the king's own hands. He 
then put an end to his life, and thus, by having incon- 
siderately accepted a challenge, terminated his career by 
an act of still greater folly. Many of those accordingly 
who blamed him for a want of sense, sarcastically remarked 
it was a misfortune to have great strength of body and but 
a modicum of brain. The king on perusal of the letter 
took the man's end much to heart, and in after times often 
regretted the loss of a man of his noble qualities. As he 
made no use of him in his lifetime, but felt the want of 
him when he was gone, and when regret was unavailing, 
he came to know the nobility of the man's nature from its 
contrast to the baseness of his calumniators. 1 



Chapter CI I. — The Sambastai, Sodrai, and Massanoi 
submit to Alexander, who founds near the banks of 
the river a city called Alexandreia — He conquers tlie 
kingdoms of Mousikanos, Portikanos, and Sambos — 
The last effects his escape 

Alexander having given orders to his army to march 
along the river in a line parallel with the course of the 
navigation, proceeded on his voyage down stream towards 
the ocean, and on reaching the dominions of the Sam- 
bastai, 2 landed to invade their country. They were a 
people inferior to none in India either for numbers or for 
bravery. They dwelt in cities in which the democratic 
form of government prevailed, and on hearing that the 
Macedonians were coming to attack them collected 60,000 
foot soldiers, 6000 horse, and 500 chariots. But when 
the fleet bore in sight they were thrown into great alarm 
by the novelty of the appearance it presented and the 
unexpectedness of its presence, and, as they were at the 
same time disheartened by the reports which circulated 

1 For a notice of Pioxippos, see a For their identification, see Note 

Note on Curtius, p. 249. on Curtius, p. 252. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 293 

about the Macedonians, they adopted the advice of their 
elders not to fight, and therefore sent on an embassy con- 
sisting of fifty of their foremost citizens, under the belief 
that they would be treated with all proper courtesy. The 
king having commended them for coming and expressed 
his readiness to make peace with them, was presented by 
the inhabitants with gifts of great magnificence, and was 
besides accorded heroic honours. He then moved on 
towards the tribes called Sodrai * and Massanoi, 2 who 
occupied the country on both sides of the river, and in 
these parts he founded near the river the city of Alex- 
andreia, 3 in which he planted a colony of 10,000 men. 
He next reached the dominions of King Mousikanos, 
seized that potentate, and, having put him to death, sub- 
jugated his people. 4 He next invaded the territories 
under the sway of Portikanos, and took two cities at the 
first assault, which he permitted the soldiers to sack and 
then burned. Portikanos himself fled into a part of the 
country which offered means of defence, but in a battle 
he was defeated and slain. All the cities subject to his 
sceptre Alexander captured and razed to the ground, and 
by these severe measures spread consternation among the 
surrounding tribes. 5 He next plundered the kingdom of 
Sambos, and having enslaved and destroyed most of his 
cities, put upwards of 80,000 of the barbarians to the 
sword. 6 The nation called the Brahmanoi were involved 
in like calamities, but, as the rest sued for mercy, Alex- 
ander punished the most guilty and acquitted the rest of 
the offences charged against them. King Sambos escaped 
the danger with which he was menaced by taking flight 
with thirty elephants into the country beyond the Indus. 

1 See Note R for their identifica- 3 For its identification see Note R 
tion. and Note on Arrian, p. 156. 

2 Cunningham inclines to believe 4 See Note on Arrian, p. 157, re- 
that the Massanoi of Diodoros are garding the position of this country, 
the Musarnoi of Ptolemy, whose 5 Porticanos is called Oxykanos by 
name, he says, still exists in the dis- Arrian. See Note on that author, 
trict of Muzarka to the west of the p. 158. 

Indus below Mithankot. See his 6 For the kingdom of Sambos see 

Anc. Geog. of Ind. p. 254. Note S. 



294 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Chapter CHI. — Harmatelia holds out against Alexander — 
In a battle with its inhabitants Ptolemy is wounded by 
a poisoned arrow, but is cured by an antidote revealed 
to Alexander in a dream 

At the extremity of the country of the Brachmans 
there lay in the midst of difficult ground the city called 
Harmatelia, 1 and as the inhabitants presumed alike on 
their valour and the security of their position, Alexander 
despatched against them a few light -armed troops, who 
were directed to hang on the rear of the enemy, and to 
take to flight in case they were attacked. These men 
proceeded to attack the ramparts, but being only 500 
strong were regarded with contempt. A body therefore of 
3000 men under arms sallied out from the city against 
these troops, which pretending to be panic-struck, took 
to a precipitate flight. But the king with a few followers 
stood his ground against the barbarians who gave pursuit, 
and after a severe conflict slew some and took others 
prisoners. On the king's side, however, not a few received 
wounds which all but proved fatal, since the barbarians 
had anointed their steels with a deadly tincture, and had 
taken the field to bring the war to an issue in full reliance 
on its efficacy. This virulent tincture was prepared from 
snakes of a certain kind which were hunted by the natives, 
who on killing them exposed their carcases to the sun in 
order that the flesh might be decomposed by the burning 
heat of his rays. As this process went on the juices fell 
out in drops, and by this liquid the poison was secreted 
from the carcases of the snakes. Accordingly, when any 
one was wounded, his body at once became numb, and 
sharp pains soon succeeded, while the whole frame was 
shaken with tremblings and convulsions. The skin 
became cold and livid, and the stomach discharged bile. 
A foam, moreover, of a black colour issued from the 
wound and putrefied. At this stage the poison quickly 
1 See Note T. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 



295 



spread to the vital parts of the body, and caused a death 
of fearful agony. Those, therefore, who had been severely 
wounded and those who had received nothing more than 
an accidental scratch suffered equally. While the 
wounded were perishing by such a horrible death, the 
king was not so much grieved for the others, but was in 
the deepest distress of mind on account of Ptolemy, who 
afterwards became a king, and for whom he had at that 
time a warm affection. Now at this crisis an incident 
occurred of a strange and marvellous nature, which con- 
cerned Ptolemy, and which some ascribed to the provident 
care of the gods for his safety. For as he was loved by 
all the soldiers for his bravery and his unbounded 
generosity, so in his hour of need he obtained the kindly 
help he required. For the king in his sleep saw a vision 
in which he appeared to see a serpent holding a plant in 
its mouth, and showing its nature and its powers, and the 
place where it grew. Then Alexander, when he awoke, 
had search made for the plant and discovered it. This 
he ground into a powder, which he not only laid as a 
plaster on Ptolemy's body, but also administered to him 
as a potion, and by this means restored him to health. 
When the valuable properties of the plant became known, 
the other patients to whom the remedy was applied re- 
covered in like manner. 1 He then laid siege to the 
capital of the Harmatelioi, a city both of great size and 
strength. As the inhabitants, however, came to meet 
him with the symbols of suppliants, and tendered their 
submission, he dismissed them without enacting any 
retributive penalty. 

1 See Note on Curtius, p. 256. 



296 THE INVASION OF INDIA 



Chapter CIV. — Alexander sails down to the mouth of the 
Indus — Sails back to Tauala (Patala ?) — Starts on 
his march homewards, instructing Nearchos to explore 
the way with his fleet to the head of the Persian Gulf 
— Ravages the land of the Oritians and founds another 
A lexandreia 

He then sailed down the stream with his friends to 
the ocean, and when he had there seen two islands he 
forthwith offered a sacrifice of great splendour to the gods, 
casting at the same time many large drinking- cups of 
gold, along with the libations they held, into the bosom 
of the deep. Having next erected altars to Tethys and 
Okeanos, he assumed that he had finished the expedition 
which he had undertaken. He then started on the return 
voyage, and in sailing up the river came to Tauala, 1 a city 
of great note, with a political constitution drawn on the 
same lines as the Spartan ; for in this community the 
command in war was vested in two hereditary kings of 
two different houses, while a council of elders ruled the 
whole state with paramount authority. Alexander now 
burned all the vessels that were worn out, and gave the 
command of the rest that were still serviceable to 
Nearchos and some others of his friends, whom he 
instructed to coast along the shores of the ocean, and 
after having carefully explored whatever lay on their 
route, to rejoin him at the mouth of the river Euphrates. 
He himself with his army traversed a great extent of 
country, overcoming those who opposed him, and treating 
humanely those who offered their submission. He thus 
gained over without any danger being incurred the people 
called the Arbitai and the inhabitants of Kedrdsia. Then, 
after passing through an extensive waterless tract, of 
which no inconsiderable part was desert, he reached the 
borders of Oritis. Here he divided his army into three 
parts, giving Ptolemy the command of the first division, 

1 Evidently an error for Patala, for the identification of which see Note U. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 297 

and Leonnatos of the second, Ptolemy being commis- 
sioned to ravage and plunder the seaboard, and Leonnatos 
the interior, while the third division, under his own 
command, devastated the plains towards the hills and the 
hill country itself. While the fury of war was thus at one 
and the same time let loose over the whole land, con- 
flagration, pillage, and massacre ran riot in every special 
locality. The soldiers accordingly soon appropriated a 
vast amount of booty, while the number of the inhabitants 
cut off by the sword amounted to many myriads. All 
the neighbours of these unfortunate tribes, appalled by the 
destruction which had overtaken them, submitted to the 
king. But Alexander, who was ambitious to found a city 
by the seaside, discovered a harbour sheltered from the 
violence of the waves, and which had a convenient site 
near it, and he built thereon the city of Alexandreia. 1 



Chapter CV. — How the Oritians bury their dead — The 
Ichthyopliagoi described — Sufferings and losses of the 
army in the Gedrosian desert — Relief sent by various 
satraps — Leonnatos is attacked by the Oritians 

Alexander having stolen into the country of the Oritai 
by the passes, quickly reduced the whole of it to sub- 
mission. The Oritai, while in other respects closely 
resembling the Indians, have one custom which is different, 
and altogether staggers belief. It has reference to their 
treatment of the dead. For when a man dies his relatives, 
naked 'and holding spears, carry away his body to the 
oak-coppices which grow in their country, and having 
there deposited it, and stripped it of the apparel and 
ornaments with which it is arrayed, they leave it to 
be devoured by wild beasts. When they have divided 
the garments which were worn by the deceased, they 
sacrifice to the heroes now in the under world, and give 
an entertainment to the members of his household. 
1 See Note on Curtius, p. 262. 



298 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Alexander next advanced towards Kedrdsia, following 
the route along the sea-coast. He encountered on the 
way an inhospitable and utterly savage tribe, for there 
the natives let their nails grow without ever cutting them 
from the day they are born to old age, allow their growth 
of hair to become matted, have complexions scorched with 
the heat of the sun, and are dressed with the skins of wild 
beasts. They subsist on the flesh of whales stranded on 
their shores. Their habitations they prepare by running 
up walls, and forming the roofs of the ribs of the whale, 
these supplying beams of a length of 18 cubits. For 
covering over the roofs they use instead of tiles the scales 
of fish. 1 Alexander, in passing through the country of 
these savages, was much distressed by the scarcity of 
provisions ; but in the next country he entered he fared 
still worse, for it was desert and bare of everything useful 
to support life. As many perished from sheer want, 
the stout hearts of the Macedonians yielded to despond- 
ency, and Alexander was overwhelmed with no ordinary 
grief and anxiety ; for it seemed a terrible thing that his 
men, who surpassed all mankind in bravery and in arms, 
should perish ingloriously in a desert land and in utter 
destitution. He therefore despatched messengers post- 
haste into Parthyaia, 2 and Drangiane, 3 and Areia, 4 and the 
other states bordering on the desert, enjoining them to 
send quickly to the passes of Karmania dromedaries and 
other beasts of burden laden with food and other neces- 
saries. These messengers having rapidly performed the 
journey to the satraps of these provinces, caused ample 
supplies of provisions to be conveyed to the appointed 
place. Alexander had, however, before their arrival lost 

1 All these particulars are recorded Baitian mountains, now called the 

at length in the Indika of Arrian, Washati. 

from c. 24 to c. 31. J Areia was a small province in- 

" Generally called Parthia, then a eluded in Ariana which embraced 

small state. ^ nearly the whole of ancient Persia. 

s Drangiane, now the province of The name is connected with the 

Seistan. The inhabitants Drangoi, Indian word Arya, "noble" or 

and also Zavangoi. Drangiane was "excellent." It occupied the tract 

separated from Gcdrosia by the from Meshed to Herat. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 299 

many of his soldiers from his inability to relieve their 
wants ; and afterwards, when he was on the march, some 
of the Oritai, having attacked the troops commanded by 
Leonnatos and slain a good many men, escaped scatheless 
into their own country. 1 



Chapter CVI. — Revels of Alexander and the army after 
escaping from the desert — Officials who had abused 
their authority called to account — Nearchos visits 
Alexander at Salmous, and recounts the incidents of 
his voyage 

When the desert had been crossed with all these pain- 
ful experiences, he came to an inhabited region which 
abounded with all things useful. He here allowed his 
army to recruit its exhausted powers, and then marched 
forward for seven days with his soldiers splendidly dressed 
as at a public assembly, while he celebrated a festival to 
Dionysos, heading himself the procession of the revellers, 
and, as he led the way, quaffing intoxicating draughts of 
wine. At the end of all this having come to learn that 
many high -placed officials had transgressed all bounds 
of law by an arbitrary and outrageous exercise of their 
authority, he decided that not a few of his satraps and 
generals stood in need of punishment. As the odium in 
which these leading men were held on account of their 
scandalous disregard of the law was a matter of public 
notoriety, many of them who held high posts of command 
in the army, and whose conscience accused them of out- 
rages and other violations of their duty, became seriously 
alarmed. Some whose troops consisted of mercenaries 
revolted from the king, and others who had amassed 
riches took to flight. The king on hearing this wrote to 
all the commanders and satraps throughout Asia that 

1 Arrian, however, relates in his a great battle in which all the leaders 
lndika (c. 23), that Leonnatos de- and 6000 men were slain, while his 
feated the Oreitai and their allies in own loss was very trifling. 



3 oo THE INVASION OF INDIA 

immediately after they had read his letter they should 
dismiss all the mercenaries. 

When the king was just at this time staying in a 
sea-coast town called Salmous, and holding a dramatic 
exhibition, the officers of the expedition which had been 
directed to navigate the ocean along its shores put into 
harbour, and, proceeding straightway to the theatre, saluted 
Alexander, and gave him an account of their adventures. 
The Macedonians, delighted to see their old comrades 
once more among them, marked the event with loud and 
prolonged cheering, and all the theatre was in a transport 
of joy that could not be exceeded. 1 The voyagers de- 
scribed how the ocean was subject to the strange vicissitude 
of the ebbing and flowing of its waters, and that when it 
ebbed numerous islands were unexpectedly revealed to 
view at the projections of land along the coast, while at 
flood-tide all these lands just mentioned were again sub- 
merged, a full gale blowing meanwhile towards shore, and 
whitening with foam all the surface of the water. But the 
strangest part of their story was that they had encountered 
a great many whales, and these of an incredible size. 
They were in great dread of these monsters, and at first 
gave up all hopes of . life, thinking they might at any 
moment be consigned, boats and all, to destruction ; but 
when, on recovering from their panic, they raised a simul- 
taneous shout, which they increased by rattling their arms 
and sounding the trumpets, the creatures took alarm at 
the strange noise, and sank to the depths below. 

1 Arrian gives in his Indika (c. plicitly trusted, as it was based on 

33-35) full details of the journey of [he Journal of Nearchos, whose ver- 

Nearchos from the coast to Alex- achy is unimpeachable. The admiral 

ander's camp, which lay a five days' did not appear in the theatre until his 

march inland, and of the affecting interview with Alexander had been 

interview between the king and his concluded. Diodoros is clearly in 

admiral, whom he had given up for error in placing Salmous on the 

lost. Arrian's narrative may be im- coast. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 301 

Chapter C VII. — Kalanos, the Indian philosopher, immolates 
himself — Alexander marries the daughter of Darius 

When the king had heard their story to the end, he 
ordered the leaders of the expedition to sail up to the 
mouth of the Euphrates. At the head of his army he 
traversed himself a great stretch of country, and arrived 
on the borders of Sousiana. About that time Kalanos, 
the Indian who had made great progress in philosophy, 
and was held in honour and esteem by Alexander, brought 
his life to an end in a most singular manner ; for when 
he was three years over three score and ten, and up till 
then had never known what illness was, he resolved to 
depart this life as one who had received the full measure 
of happiness alike from nature and from fortune. He was 
now, however, afflicted with a malady which became daily 
more and more burdensome, and he therefore requested 
the king to prepare for him a great funeral pyre, and to 
order his servants to set fire to it as soon as he should 
ascend it. Alexander at first tried to divert him from his 
purpose, but when he found that all his remonstrances 
were unavailing, he consented to do him the service asked. 
Orders were accordingly given for doing the work, and 
when the pyre was ready the whole army attended to 
witness the extraordinary spectacle. Then Kalanos, fol- 
lowing the rules prescribed by his philosophy, stepped 
with unflinching courage on to the summit of the pyre, 
and perished in the flames which consumed it. Some of 
the spectators condemned the man for his madness, others 
for the vanity shown in his act of hardihood, while some 
admired his high spirit and contempt of death. The king 
honoured him with a sumptuous funeral, and then pro- 
ceeded to Sousa, where he married Stateira, the elder of 
the two daughters of Darius. 



PLUTARCH 



PLUTARCH'S LIFE OF ALEXANDER 

Chapter L VIII. — Alexander at Nysa 

. . . When the Macedonians were hesitating to attack 
the city called Nysa, because the river which ran past it was 
deep, " Unlucky man that I am," Alexander exclaimed, 
" why did I not learn to swim ? " and so saying he pre- 
pared to ford the stream. After he had withdrawn from 
the assault, envoys arrived from the besieged with an offer 
to surrender. They were at first surprised to find him clad 
in his armour, and still stained with the dust and blood of 
battle. A cushion was then brought to him, which he 
requested the eldest of the envoys to take and be seated. 
This man was called Akouphis, and he was so much struck 
with the splendour and courtesy with which he was re- 
ceived that he asked what his countrymen must do to 
make him their friend. Alexander replied : " They must 
make you their governor, and send me a hundred of their 
best men." At this Akouphis laughed, and said : " Me- 
thinks, King ! I should rule better if, instead of the 
best, you took the worst." 



Chapter LIX. — Interchange of civilities between Alexander 
and Taxiles — Alexander breaks his faith with Indian 
mercenaries, and hangs some Indian philosophers 

Taxiles, it is said, ruled over a part of India which was 
as large as Egypt, afforded good pasturage, and had a 

X 



3 o6 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

very fertile soil. He was a shrewd man, and after he 
had embraced Alexander, said to him : " Why should we 
two, Alexander, fight with one another if you have come 
to take away from us neither our water nor our necessary 
food — the only things about which sensible men ever care 
to quarrel and fight. As for anything else, call it money 
or call it property, if I am richer than you, what I have 
is at your service ; but if I have less than you, I would 
not object to stand debtor to your bounty." Alexander 
was delighted with what he said, and, giving him his right 
hand in token of his friendship, exclaimed : " Perhaps you 
think from the friendly greetings we have exchanged our 
intercourse will be continued without a contest There 
you are mistaken, for I will war to the knife with you in 
good offices, and will see to it that you do not overcome 
me in generosity." Alexander therefore, after having 
received many presents from Taxiles, and given him more 
in return, at last drank to his health, and accompanied 
the toast with the present of a thousand talents of coined 
money. This act of his greatly vexed his friends, but 
made him stand higher in favour with many of the bar- 
barians. As the Indian mercenary troops, consisting, as 
they did, of the best soldiers to be found in the country, 
flocked to the cities which he attacked, and defended 
them with the greatest vigour, he thus incurred serious 
losses, and accordingly concluded a treaty of peace with 
them ; but afterwards, as they were going away, set upon 
them while they were on the road, and killed them all. 
This rests as a foul blot on his martial fame, for on all 
other occasions he observed the rules of civilised warfare 
as became a king. 1 The philosophers gave him no less 
trouble than the mercenaries, because they reviled the 
princes who declared for him and encouraged the free 
states to revolt from his authority. On this account he 
hanged many of them. 2 

1 This incident occurred at Ma- 2 The Brahmans of Sindh are here 

zaga, the capital of Assakenos. referred to. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 307 



Chapter LX. — The account of the battle with Poros, as 
given by Alexander himself — Alexander s noble treat- 
ment of Poros 

How the war against Poros was conducted he has 
described in his own letters. He tells us that the river 
Hydaspes ran between the two camps, and that P6ros 
with his elephants which he had posted with their heads 
towards the stream, constantly guarded the passage. 
Alexander himself, day after day, caused a great noise 
and disturbance to be made in his camp, in order that 
the barbarians might be gradually led to view his move- 
ments without alarm. At last, upon a dark and stormy 
night, he took a part of the infantry and a choice body of 
cavalry, marched to a considerable distance from the enemy, 
and crossed over to an island of no great size. Here he 
was exposed with his army to the rage of a violent 
thunderstorm, amid which rain fell down in torrents, and 
though he saw some of his men struck dead with the 
lightning, he nevertheless advanced from the island and 
reached the furthermost bank of the river. The Hydaspes 
was now flooded by the rains, and its raging current 
had chosen a new channel of great width, down which 
a great body of water was carried. In fording this new 
bed, he could with difficulty keep his footing, as the 
bottom was very slippery and uneven. It was here that 
Alexander is said to have exclaimed, " O Athenians ! can 
you believe what dangers I undergo to earn your 
applause?" This particular rests on the authority of 
Onesikritos, for Alexander himself merely says that he 
and his men left their rafts, and under arms waded 
through the second torrent with the water up to their 
breasts. After crossing, he himself rode forward about 
twenty stadia in advance of the infantry, concluding that if 
the enemy attacked him with their cavalry only, he could 
easily rout them ; but if they moved forward their entire 
force, he could bring his infantry into the field before 



3 o8 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

fighting began. He was right in both conclusions, for 
he fell in with iooo horse and 60 war-chariots of the 
enemy, and these he routed, capturing every chariot, 
and slaying 400 of the horsemen. Poros thus perceived 
that Alexander himself had crossed the river, and he 
therefore advanced against him with all his army, except 
some troops which he left to guard his camp, in case the 
Macedonians should cross from the opposite bank to 
attack it. Alexander, dreading the elephants and the 
great numbers of the enemy, did not engage with them in 
front, but attacked them himself on the left wing, order- 
ing Koinos to fall upon them on the right. Both wings 
were broken, and the enemy, driven from their position, 
thronged always towards the centre where the elephants 
were posted. The contest, which began early in the 
morning, was so obstinately maintained that it was fully 
the eighth hour of the day before the Indians renounced 
all attempts at further resistance. This description of the 
battle is given by the chief actor in it himself in his 
letters. Most historians are agreed that P6ros stood four 
cubits and a span high, and that his gigantic form was 
not less proportioned to the elephant which carried him, 
and which was his biggest, than was a rider of an 
ordinary size to his horse. This elephant showed 
wonderful sagacity and care for its royal master, for while 
it was still vigorous it defended him against his assailants 
and repulsed them, but when it perceived that he was 
ready to sink from the number of his wounds and bruises, 
fearing that he might fall off its back, it gently lowered 
itself to the ground, and as it knelt quietly extracted the 
darts from his body with its trunk. When Poros was 
taken prisoner, Alexander asked him how he wished to 
be treated. " Like a king," answered Pdros. When 
Alexander further asked if he had anything else to 
request, " Every thing," rejoined Poros, " is comprised in 
the words, like a king." Alexander then not only 
reinstated Pdros in his kingdom with the title of satrap, 
but added a large province to it, subduing the inhabitants 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 309 

whose form of government was the republican. This 
country, it is said, contained 15 tribes, 5000 consider- 
able cities, and villages without number. 1 He subdued 
besides another district three times as large, over which 
he appointed Philippos, one of his friends, to be satrap. 



Chapter LXI. — Death of Boukepkalas, and Alexander 's 
regret at his loss 

After the battle with P6ros, Boukephalas died, not 
immediately, but some time afterwards, from wounds which 
he received in the engagement. This is the account 
which most historians give, but Onesikritos says that he 
died of old age and overwork, for he had reached his 
thirtieth year. 2 Alexander deeply regretted his loss, 
taking it as much to heart as if it had been that of a 
faithful friend and companion. He founded a city in his 
honour on the banks of the Hydasp£s, and named it 
Boukephalia. It is also recorded that when he lost a pet 
dog called Peritas, which he had brought up, and of which 
he was very fond, he founded a city and called it by the 
name of this dog. Sotion tells us that he had heard this 
from Potam6n of Lesbos. 

1 "When the Greek writers tell us evident that the Greeks were misled 

that the district between the Hydas- by the exaggerated reports so com- 

pes and the Hyphasis alone contained mon with all Orientals, and which 

5000 cities (!), none of which was less were greedily swallowed by the his- 

than that of Cos (Strabo, xv. p. 686), torians of Alexander with a view of 

and that the dominions of Poros, magnifying the exploits of the great 

which were confined between the conqueror." — Bunbury, Hist, of Anc. 

Hydaspes and the Acesines — a tract Geog. I. p. 453. 

not more than 40 miles in width — 2 See Note to Arrian, p. 112, and 

contained 300 cities (id. p. 698), it is to Curtius, p. 212. 



3 io THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Chapter LXII. — The army refuses to advance to the Ganges 
— Alexander, preparing to retreat, erects altars which 
were afterwards held in veneration by the Praisian 
kings — The opinion of Androkottos 

The battle with Poros depressed the spirits of the 
Macedonians, and made them very unwilling to advance 
farther into India. For as it was with the utmost diffi- 
culty they had beaten him when the army he led amounted 
only to 20,000 infantry and 2000 cavalry, they now 
most resolutely opposed Alexander when he insisted that 
they should cross the Ganges. 1 This river, they heard, 
had a breadth of two-and-thirty stadia, and a depth of 
100 fathoms, while its farther banks were covered all 
over with armed men, horses, and elephants. For the 
kings of the Gandaritai and the Praisiai 2 were reported 
to be waiting for him with an army of 80,000 horse, 
200,000 foot, 8000 war chariots, and 6000 fighting 
elephants. Nor was this any exaggeration, for not 
long afterwards Androkottos, 3 who had by that time 
mounted the throne, presented Seleukos with 500 
elephants, and overran and subdued the whole of India 
with an army of 600,000 men. Alexander at first in 
vexation and rage withdrew to his tent, and shutting 
himself up lay there feeling no gratitude towards those 
who had thwarted his purpose of crossing the Ganges ; 
but regarding a retreat as tantamount to a confession of 
defeat. But being swayed by the persuasions of his 
friends, and the entreaties of his soldiers who stood weep- 
ing and lamenting at the door of his tent, he at last 
relented, and prepared to retreat. He first, however, con- 

1 This seems an almost inexcusable ■ he wrote so carelessly that he did not 

mistake on Plutarch's part — his con- mean what his words seem to imply, 
ducting Alexander as far as the 2 See Notes C<- and T>d for these 

Ganges ! The author of the raiphh people. 

made the same egregious blunder. 3 More correctly Sandrakyptos, or 

It is possible, however, to put a dif- Chandragupta. See Biog. Appendix, 

ferent construction on the expressions s.r. Sandrokottos. 
used by Plutarch, and to suppose that 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 311 

trived many unfair devices to exalt his fame among the 
natives, as, for instance, causing arms for men and stalls 
and bridles for horses to be made much beyond the usual 
size, and these he left scattered about. He also erected 
altars for the gods which the kings of the Praisiai even to the 
present day hold in veneration, crossing the river to offer 
sacrifices upon them in the Hellenic fashion. 1 Androkottos 
himself, who was then but a youth, saw Alexander him- 
self, and afterwards used to declare that Alexander could 
easily have taken possession of the whole country since 
the king was hated and despised by his subjects for the 
wickedness of his disposition and the meanness of his 
origin. 2 



Chapter LXIII. — Alexander starts on a voyage down stream, 
reducing tribes by the way — He is dangerously 
wounded in the capital of the Malloi — Extraction of 
the arrow from his wound — His recovery 

After marching thence Alexander, who wished to see 
the outer ocean, ordered many rafts and vessels managed 
with oars to be built, and he then fell down the rivers in 
a leisurely manner. But the voyage was neither an idle 
one nor unattended with warlike operations, for at times 
he disembarked, and attacking the cities which adjoined 
the banks succeeded in subduing them all. But he very 
nearly lost his life when he was amongst the people called 
the Malloi, who were said to be the most warlike of all 
the Indians. For in besieging their city, after he had 
driven the defenders from the walls by volleys of missiles, 
he was the first man to ascend a scaling ladder and reach 
the summit of the wall. 3 Just then the ladder broke, so 
that he was left almost alone, and as the barbarians who 
were standing at the foot of the wall inside shot at him 

1 See^ Note N, Altars at the 3 This was the wall of the citadel, 

Hyphasis. not of the city, as Plutarch repre- 

See Biog. Appendix, s.v. Sandro- sents. 
kottos. 



3 i2 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

from below, he was repeatedly hit with their missiles. He 
therefore poised himself and leaped down into the midst 
of his enemies, alighting by good chance on his feet. The 
flashing of his arms as he brandished them made the 
barbarians think that lightning or some supernatural 
splendour played round his person, and they therefore 
drew back and dispersed. But when they saw that he 
was attended by two followers only, some of them 
attacked him at close-quarters with swords and spears, 
while one man, who stood a little farther off, shot an 
arrow from his bow at full bent, and with such force that 
it pierced through his corselet and lodged itself in the 
bones of his breast. 1 As he staggered under the blow 
and sank upon his knees, the barbarian ran up with his 
drawn scimitar to despatch him. Peukestas and Limnaios? 
placed themselves before Alexander to protect him ; both 
of them were wounded, one of them mortally ; but 
Peukestas, who survived, continued to make some resist- 
ance, while the king slew the Indian with his own hand. 
Alexander was wounded in many places ; and at last 
received a blow on his neck from a club, which forced 
him to lean for support against the wall with his face 
turned towards the enemy. The Macedonians, who by 
this time had come up, crowded round him, and snatching 
him up, now insensible to all around him, carried him off 
to his tent. A rumour immediately ran through the 
camp that he was dead, and his attendants having with 
great difficulty sawed through the arrow, which had a 
wooden shaft, were thus able after much trouble to take 
off his corselet. They had next to extract the barbed 
head of the arrow which was firmly fixed in one of his 
ribs. This arrow-head is said to have measured three 
fingers' breadths in width and four in length. Accord- 
ingly, when it was pulled out, he swooned away and was 
brought very near the gates of death, but he at length 

1 This fact, attested by all the his- reports as to the great skill of the 
tinians, confirms the truth of the Indians in archery. 

a Called Timaeus by Curtius, p. 240. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 313 

revived. When he was out of danger, but still very 
weak, having for a long time to follow the mode of life 
most conducive to the restoration of his health, he heard 
a disturbance outside his tent, and learning that the 
Macedonians were longing to see him he put on his cloak 
and went out to them. After sacrificing to the gods, he 
again moved forward and subdued a great extent of 
country and many considerable cities that lay on his 
route. 



Chapter LXIV. — Alexander's interview with tlie 
Indian gymnosophists 

He captured ten of the gymnosophists who had been 
principally concerned in persuading Sabbas x to revolt, 
and had done much harm otherwise to the Macedonians. 
These men are thought to be great adepts in the art of 
returning brief and pithy answers, and Alexander proposed 
for their solution some hard questions, declaring that he 
would put to death first the one who did not answer 
correctly and then the others in order. 2 

He demanded of the first " Which he took to be the 
more numerous, the living or the dead ? " He answered, 
"The living, for the dead are not." 

The second was asked, " Which breeds the largest 
animals, the sea or the land ? " He answered, " The land, 
for the sea is only a part of it." 

1 He is called Sambos by Arrian, worst would be hanged the first, after 
and was the ruler of the mountainous which the others would follow in their 
region west of the Indus, having order. This is like Nabuchodonosor, 
Sindimana for his capital, the city who absolutely wished to slay the 
now called Sehwan. See Biog. Magians if they did not divine one of 
Appendix, s.v. Sambos. his dreams which he had forgotten, 

2 "He (Alexander) caused ten or the Calif of The Thousand and One 
Indian philosophers, whom the Nights who was to strangle his wife 
Greeks called gymnosophists, and when she came to the end of her 
who were naked as apes, to be seized. stories. But it is Plutarch who tells 
He proposes to them questions this silly story ; we must respect it ; 
worthy of the gallant Mercury of he was a. Greek" (Voltaire, Diet. 
Vise, promising them with all serious- Phil. s.v. Alexandre). See also Note 
ness that the one who answered Hh, Indian Gymnosophists. 



3 i4 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

The third was asked, " Which is the cleverest of 
beasts ? " He answered, " That with which man is not 
yet acquainted." 

The fourth was asked, " For what reason he induced 
Sabbas to revolt ? " He answered, " Because I wished 
him to live with honour or die with honour." 

The fifth was asked, " Which he thought existed first, 
the day or the night ? " He answered, " The day was 
first by one day." As the king appeared surprised at 
this solution, he added, " Impossible questions require 
impossible answers." 

Alexander then turning to the sixth asked him " How 
a man could best make himself beloved ? " He answered, 
" If a man being possessed of great power did not make 
himself to be feared." 

Of the remaining three, one being asked " How a man 
could become a god ? " replied, " By doing that which is 
impossible for a man to do." 

The next being asked, " Which of the two was stronger, 
life or death ? " he replied, " Life, because it bears so 
many evils." 

The last being asked, " How long it was honourable 
for a man to live ? " answered, " As long as he does not 
think it better to die than to live." 

Upon this Alexander, turning to the judge, requested 
him to give his decision. He said they had answered 
each one worse than the other. " Since such is your 
judgment," Alexander then said, " you shall be your- 
self the first to be put to death." " Not so," said he, 
" O king, unless you are false to your word, for you said 
that he who gave the worst answer should be the first 
to die." 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 315 

Chapter LX V. — Onesikritos confers ivitli the Indian gym- 
nosophists Kalanos and Dandamis — Kalanos visits 
Alexander and shozvs him a symbol of his empire 

The king then gave them presents and dismissed them 
to their homes. He also sent Onesikritos to the most 
renowned of these sages, who lived by themselves in 
tranquil seclusion, to request that they would come to 
him. 1 This Onesikritos was a philosopher who belonged 
to the school of Diogenes the Cynic. He tells us that 
one of these men called Kalanos ordered him with the 
most overbearing insolence and rudeness to take off his 
clothes, and listen naked to his discourse — otherwise he 
would not enter into conversation with him even if he 
came from Zeus himself. Dandamis, however, was of a 
milder temper, and when he had been told about Sokrates, 
Pythagoras and Diogenes, he said they appeared to him 
to have been men of genius, but from an excessive defer- 
ence to the laws had subjected their lives too much to 
their requirements. But other writers tell us that he said 
nothing more than this, " For what purpose has Alexander 
come all the way hither ? " Taxil£s, however, persuaded 
Kalanos to visit Alexander. His real name was Sphines, 
but as he saluted those whom he met with " Kale," which 
is the Indian equivalent of " Chairein " (that is, " All 
hail"), he was called by the Greeks Kalanos. This 
philosopher, we are told, showed Alexander a symbol of 
his empire. He threw down on the ground a dry and 
shrivelled hide and planted his foot on the edge of it. 
But when it was trodden down in one place, it started up 
everywhere else. He then walked all round it and showed 
that the same thing took place wherever he trod, until at 
length he stepped into the middle, and by doing so made 
it all lie flat. This symbol was intended to show 
Alexander that he should control his empire from its 
centre, and not wander away to its distant extremities. 

The interviews of Onesikritos place earlier than is here stated — 
with the Indian philosophers took when Alexander was at Taxila. 



316 



THE INVASION OF INDIA 



Chapter LXVI. — Alexander visits the island Skilloustis, 
and sailing tlience explores the sea — Sufferings of his 
army on the march homeward, and extent of its losses 
— Relief sent by the satraps 

Alexander's voyage down the rivers to the sea occu- 
pied seven months. On reaching the ocean he sailed to 
an island which he himself has called Skilloustis, but 
which is generally known as Psiltoukis. 1 On landing 
there he sacrificed to the gods, exploring afterwards the 
nature of the sea and the coast as far as he could 
penetrate. This done, he turned back, after praying to 
the gods that no man might ever overpass the limits 
which his expedition had reached. He ordered his fleet 
to sail along the coast, keeping India 
on the right hand ; and he appointed 
Nearchos to the chief command, with 
Onesikritos as the master pilot. He 
himself, returning by land with the 
army, marched through the country 
of the Oreitai, where he was reduced 
to the sorest straits from the scarcity 
of provisions, and lost such num- 
bers of men that he hardly brought 
back from India the fourth part of his military force, though 
he entered it with 120,000 foot and 15,000 horse. Many 
perished from malignant distempers, wretched food, and 
scorching heat, but most from sheer hunger, for their 
march lay through an uncultivated region, inhabited only 
by some miserable savages, the owners of a small and 
inferior breed of sheep, accustomed to feed on sea-fish, 
which gave to their flesh a rank and disagreeable flavour. 

1 Called Killouta by Arrian. The his voyage. The name means "city 

native name has not otherwise been of wood. " 

preserved. The city which Tliny 2 Arrian relates in his Indika (c. 

calls Xylenopolis was probably situ- 26) that Nearchos in the course of 

ated in Killouta, and was the naval his voyage, having landed at a place 

station whence Nearchos started on on the Gedrosian coast called Kalama, 




Fig. 13. — Greek 
Warship. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 317 

With great difficulty, therefore, he traversed this desert 
region in sixty days, and reached Gedr6sia, where all the 
men were at once supplied with abundance of pro- 
visions, furnished by the satraps and kings of the nearest 
provinces. 



Chapter LXVII. — Alexander and the army indulge in wild 
revelry o>i emerging from the desert 

After he had given his forces some time to recruit, he 
led them in a joyous revel for seven days through Kar- 
mania. He himself sat at table with his companions 
mounted on a lofty oblong platform drawn by eight 
horses, and in that conspicuous position feasted continu- 
ally both by day and by night. This carriage was followed 
by numberless others, some with purple hangings and 
embroidered canopies, and others screened with over- 
arching green boughs always fresh gathered, conveying 
the rest of Alexander's friends and officers crowned with 
garlands and drinking wine. There was not a helmet, a 
shield, or a pike to be seen, but all along the road the 
soldiers were dipping cups, horns, and earthen vessels 
into great jars and flagons of wine, and drinking one 
another's healths, some as they went marching forward, 
and others as they sat by the way. Wherever they 
passed might be heard the music of the pipe and the 
flute and the voices of women singing and dancing and 
making merry. During this disorderly and dissolute 
march the soldiers after their cups indulged in ribald 
jests, as if the god Dionysos himself were present among 
them and accompanying their joyous procession. 1 Alex- 
ander, on reaching the capital of Gedrosia, again halted 
to refresh his army, and entertained it with feasting and 
revelry. 

received from the natives a present of the flesh of sea-birds, because for want 
sheep and fish. The admiral recorded of grass the sheep were fed on fish, 
that the mutton had a fishy taste like 1 See Note on Curtius, p. 266. 



JUSTIN 



HISTORIAE PHILIPPICAE OF JUSTINUS 

Twelfth Book 

Cltapter VII. — Alexander visits Nysa and Mount Merits 
— Receives the submission of Queen Cleophis and 
captures the Rock {Aornos) 

. . . After this he advanced towards India that he 
might make the ocean and the remotest East the limits 
of his empire. In order that the decorations of his army 
might be in keeping with this grandeur, he overlaid the 
trappings of the horses and the arms of his soldiers with 
silver. He then called the army his argyraspids, because 
the shields they carried were inwrought with silver. 
When he had reached the city of Nysa, and found that 
the inhabitants offered no resistance, he ordered their 
lives to be spared, from a sentiment of reverence towards 
Father Bacchus, by whom the city had been founded ; at 
the same time congratulating himself that he had not 
only undertaken a military expedition like that god, but 
had even followed his very footsteps. He then led his 
army to view the sacred mountain, which the genial 
climate had mantled over with vine and ivy, just as if 
husbandmen had with industrious hands laboured to make 
it the perfection of beauty. Now the army on reaching 
the mountain, in a sudden access of devout emotion, 
began to howl in honour of the god, and to the amaze- 
ment of the king ran unmolested all about the place, so 
that he perceived that by sparing the citizens he had not 

Y 



322 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

so much served their interests as those of his own army. 
Thence he marched to the Daedali mountains 1 and the 
dominions of Queen Cieophis, 2 who, after surrendering her 
kingdom, purchased its restoration by permitting the 
conqueror to share her bed, thus gaining by her fascina- 
tions what she had not gained by her valour. The off- 
spring of this intercourse was a son, whom she called 
Alexander, the same who afterwards reigned as an Indian 
king. Queen Cieophis, because she had prostituted her 
chastity, was thereafter called by the Indians the royal 
harlot. When Alexander after traversing India had 
come to a rock of a wonderful size and ruggedness, unto 
which many of the people had fled for refuge, 3 he came 
to know that Hercules had been prevented from captur- 
ing that very rock by an earthquake. Being seized, 
therefore, with an ambitious desire of surpassing the 
deeds of Hercules, he made himself master of the rock 
with infinite toil and danger, and then received the sub- 
mission of all the tribes in that part of the country. 



Chapter VIII. — Alexander conquers Porus — Builds Nicaea 
and Bouccphala, and reduces the Adrestae, Gesteani, 
Praesidae, and Gangaridae — Advances to t/ie Cuphites 
(Beds), beyond wliich the army refuses to follow him 
— He agrees to return, and leaves memorials of Ids 
progress 

One of the Indian kings called Porus, a man remark- 
able alike for his personal strength and noble courage, on 
hearing the report about Alexander, began to prepare 
war against his coming. Accordingly, when hostilities 
broke out, he ordered his army to attack the Macedonians, 
from whom he demanded their king, as if he was his 
private enemy. Alexander lost no time in joining battle, 

1 Sec Note on Curlius, p. 194. s The rock Aornos, identified with 

- The Queen of Mazaya, capital of Mount Mahaban. See Note F. 
the Assakeninns. See Note P. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 323 

but his horse being wounded at the first charge, he fell 
. headlong to the ground, and was saved by his attendants 
who hastened up to his assistance. Porus again, when 
fainting from the number of his wounds, was taken 
prisoner. His defeat he took so much to heart that 
when he had received quarter from the victor, he neither 
wished to take food nor would allow his wounds to be 
. attended to, and indeed could scarcely be induced to 
wish for life. Alexander, out of respect for his valour, 
restored him in safety to his sovereignty. There he 
built two cities, one which he called Nicaea, and the other 
Boucephala, after the name of his horse. Moving thence 
he conquered the Adrestae, the Gesteani, the Praesidae, 
and the Gangaridae, 1 after defeating their armies with 
; great slaughter. When he reached the Cuphites, 2 where 
the enemy awaited him with 200,000 cavalry, his soldiers, 
worn out not less by the number of their victories than 
by their incessant toils, all besought him with tears to 
bring at last the war to a close — besought him to have 
some remembrance of his native country and the duty of 
returning to it — to have some consideration for the years 
of his soldiers, to whom scarcely so much of life now 
remained as would suffice them for returning home. 
Some pointed to their hoary hair, others to their wounds, 
others to their bodies withered with age or seamed with 
scars. None, they said, except themselves had brooked 
a continuous service under two kings, Philip and Alex- 
ander ; and now at last they entreated he would send 
them home where their bodies, wasted as they were to 
skeletons, might be buried in the tombs of their fathers, 

The Adrestae are the Adra'istai Can he have had in his recollection 
of Arrian. See Note on that author, the Kabul river, called sometimes by 
p. 116. The Gesteani seem to be the the classical writers the Kuphes, with 
Kathaians. The Praesidae must be Kuphet as the stem for the oblique 
the Prasians (though Saint-Martin cases, and mistaken it for the river 
would identify them with the Praesti which arrested Alexander's progress ? 
of Curtius), and the Gangaridae the Like Plutarch, he erroneously sup- 
people of Lower Bengal. poses that the Macedonian army was 
_ The river reached was the Hypha- confronted with a great host encamped 
sis. How Justin came to call it the on the opposite bank of the river. 
Cuphites it is difficult to understand. 



324 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

seeing it was from no want of will they failed to second 
his wishes, but from the incapacity of age. If, however, 
he would not spare his soldiers, he should at all events 
spare himself, and not wear out his good fortune by 
subjecting it to too severe a strain. Alexander was 
moved by these well-grounded entreaties, and, as if he 
had now reached the goal of victory, ordered a camp to 
be made of an unusual size and splendour, in order that 
the work, while calculated to terrify the enemy by its 
vastness, might be left to render himself an object of 
admiration to future ages. Never did the soldiers apply 
themselves with such alacrity to any work as they did to 
this ; and when it was finished they retraced their way to 
the parts whence they had come as joyfully as if they 
were returning from a field of victory. 



Chapter IX. — Alexander sailing down the Panjdb rivers to 
the ocean, reduces the Hiacensanae, Silei, Ambri, and 
Sigambri — He is dangerously wounded in attacking 
one of tlieir strongholds 

From thence Alexander proceeded to the river Acesines 1 
and sailed down stream towards the ocean. On his way 
he received the submission of the Hiacensanae 2 and the 
Silei 3 whom Hercules had founded. Sailing onward, he 
came to the Ambri and the Sigambri, 4 who opposed him 
with an army of 80,000 foot and 60,000 cavalry. Having 
defeated them, he led his army to their capital. On his 
observing from the wall, which he was himself the first to 
mount, that the city was left without defenders, he leaped 
down without any attendant into the level space at the 
foot of the wall. Then the enemy, noticing that he was 
alone, rushed together with loud shouts from all quarters 

* Hydaspcs he should have said. 4 By the Ambri must be meant 

• For the identification of this the Afalli, and by the Sigambri 
people, see Note K/. the Oxydrakai. The text must be 

3 The Silei are probably the Sibi. corrupt. 
See Note lit'. 



BY ALEXANDER THE GREAT 325 

of the city to finish, if possible, the wars that embroiled 
the world, by one man's death, and give the many nations 
he had attacked their revenge. Alexander made an 
obstinate resistance, and single - handed fought against 
thousands. It surpasses belief to tell how neither the 
multitude of his assailants, nor the ceaseless storm of their 
missiles, nor their savage yells made him quail, and how, 
alone as he was, he slew and put thousands to flight. 
When at last he saw that he was being overpowered by 
numbers, he placed his back against the stem of a tree 
which grew near the wall, and by this means protected 
himself till, after he had for a long time stood at bay, his 
danger became at length known to his friends, who forth- 
with leaped down from the wall to his assistance. Of 
these many were slain in the act of defending him, and 
the issue of the conflict remained doubtful till the walls 
were thrown down and the whole army came to his 
rescue. In this battle Alexander was pierced by an arrow 
under the pap, but even while he was fainting from the 
loss of blood he sank on his knee, and continued fighting 
till he slew the man by whom he had been wounded. The 
operation required for curing his wound threw him into 
a deadlier swoon than the wound itself had produced. 



Qiapter X. — Alexander reaches the city of King Ambigerus 
{Sambos ?) — Ptolemy is there wounded by a poisoned 
arrow — An antidote to the poison is revealed to 
Alexander in a dream — He sails down to the mouth 
of the Indus — Founds Barce — Leaves India and 
returns to Babylon 

His safety was for a time despaired of, but having at 
last recovered he sent Polyperchon with part of the army 
to Babylon. Having himself embarked with a very select 
company of his friends, he made a voyage along the 
shores of the ocean. On his reaching the city of King 



3 z6 ' THE INVASION OF INDIA 

Ambigerus 1 the inhabitants who had heard that he was in- 
vulnerable by steel, armed their arrows with poison, which 
thus inflicted a double wound. With this deadly weapon 
they killed great numbers of the enemy and repulsed them 
from the walls. Among many others that were wounded 
was Ptolemy, but he was rescued from danger just when 
he appeared to be dying, as soon as he had swallowed a 
potion prepared from a particular herb which had been 
revealed to the king in a vision as being an antidote to 
the poison. The greater part of the army was saved by 
the same remedy. Alexander having taken the city by 
storm poured out a libation to the ocean, praying at the 
same time for a prosperous return to his own country. 
He was then carried down with the tide in his favour to 
the mouth of the river Indus. And then like a victor who 
had triumphantly driven his chariot round the goal, he 
fixed the frontiers of his empire, having advanced till the 
deserts at the world's end barred his farther progress by 
land, and till seas were no longer navigable. As a monu- 
ment of his achievements he founded in those parts the 
city of Barce. 2 He erected altars also, and on departing 
left one of his friends to be governor of the maritime 
Indians. As he intended to march homewards by land, 
and had learned that his route would lie through arid 
wastes, he ordered wells to be dug at convenient places. 
Since these were found to yield a copious supply of water 
he effected his return to Babylon. 

1 This is supposed to be a corrupt " Nothing is known of this city, 

reading for Ambiregis, in which case unless it be, as Cunningham thinks, 

Ambi is a mistake for Sambi. We the Barbari of Ptolemy, and the 

know that the incident referred to Barbarike Emporium of the author 

happened in the dominions of this of the Periplils. See his Anc. Gtog. 

king. In Orosius (iii. 19) the name p. 295. 
is transcribed as Ambirarcn. 



Fifteenth Book 

Chapter IV. — Seleucits Nicator subjugates the Bactrians 
and enters India — The history of Saitdrocottus zvho 
was then King of India — Seleucus makes a treaty of 
peace with him and returns to the West 

. Seleucus Nicator waged many wars in the east 
after the partition of Alexander's empire among his 
generals. He first took Babylon, and then with his forces 
augmented by victory subjugated the Bactrians. He then 
passed over into India, which after Alexander's death, as 
if the yoke of servitude had been shaken off from its neck, 
had put his prefects to death. Sandrocottus was the 
leader who achieved their freedom, but after his victory 
he forfeited by his tyranny all title 
to the name of liberator, for he 
oppressed with servitude the very 
people whom he had emancipated 
from foreign thraldom. He was born 
in humble life, but was prompted to 
aspire to royalty by an omen signifi- 
cant of an august destiny. For when 
by his insolent behaviour he had IG ' nicator EUCUS 

offended Nandrus, 1 and was ordered 
by that king to be put to death, he sought safety by 
a speedy flight. When he lay down overcome with 

1 Nandrum has been here substi- Mas. 12, 261) has shown to be an 
tuted for the common reading Alex- error. 
andrum, which Gutschmid (Rhein. 




328 THE INVASION OF INDIA 

fatigue and had fallen into a deep sleep, a lion of 
enormous size approaching the slumberer licked with its 
tongue the sweat which oozed profusely from his body, 
and when he awoke, quietly took its departure. It was 
this prodigy which first inspired him with the hope of 
winning the throne, and so having collected a band of 
robbers, he instigated the Indians to overthrow the exist- 
ing government. When he was thereafter preparing to 
attack Alexander's prefects, a wild elephant of monstrous 
size approached him, and kneeling submissively like a 
tame elephant received him on to its back and fought 
vigorously in front of the army. Sandrocottus having 
thus won the throne was reigning over India when 
Seleucus was laying the foundations of his future great- 
ness. Seleucus having made a treaty with him and 
otherwise settled his affairs in the east, returned home 
to prosecute the war with Antigonus. 



APPENDICES 



NOTES A-L/ 



Note A. — Alexandreia under Kaukasos 

Alexander had founded this city at the foot of Paropanisos in 
the spring of 329 B.C., before he crossed into Baktria. For 
distinction's sake it was called Alexandreia "under Kaukasos," 
or " of the Paropamisadai." Its position has been a subject 
much discussed. Sir A. Burnes and Lassen fixed it at Bamian, but 
to this there is the objection that Bamian is situated in the midst 
of the mountains, and is reached from Kabul after the main 
ridge of the Hindu-Kush has been crossed. A position which 
would suit better for the foundation of a permanent settlement is 
to be found in the rich and beautiful valley of the Koh-Daman, 
which, as its name implies, extends up to the very foot of the 
great mountain rampart. Towards the northern edge of this 
valley lies the village of Charikar, whence the three roads that 
lead into Baktria diverge. In the neighbourhood of this com- 
manding position is a place called Opian or Houpian, where vast 
ruins, first discovered by Masson, indicate the former presence of 
an important town. A link to connect this place with Alexan- 
dreia is supplied by Stephanos of Byzantium, who describes 
Alexandreia as "a city in Opiane, near India." From this we 
may infer that Opian or Houpian was the capital of a country of 
the same name, and that it formed the site of the city which 
Alexander founded under Kaukasos. This view has been advo- 
cated by Dr. H. Wilson and V. de Saint-Martin, and also by 
General Cunningham, who supports it by a reference to the 
famous itinerary preserved in Pliny (N. H. VI. xvii. 21), from 
Diognetos and Baiton, who recorded the distances of Alexander's 
marches. Alexandreia, it is there stated, was 50 miles distant 
from Ortospanum, and 237 from Peukolatis. As Ortospanum 
has been on sufficient grounds identified with Kabul, and Peuko- 
latis with Hashtnagar on the river Landai, the question arises 



332 APPENDICES 

whether Houpian is at the required distance from each of these 
places, and General Cunningham shows that such is the case, 
allowance being made for the rough methods employed in 
calculating such distances in ancient times. Bunbury inclines 
to accept this identification, but thinks that as Opiane is in 
Stephanos the name of a country, the evidence of the modern 
appellation (Houpian) is of little weight in determining the 
position of the city. No mention of this Alexandreia occurs 
either in Ptolemy or the Periplus of the Erythraian Sea, but it is 
mentioned in the Mahdvanso under the form Alasadda, or 
Alasanda, as Hardy writes it. About the 7th century again 
of our aera, the Chinese pilgrim Hiouen Thsiang speaks of 
Houpian (Hou-pi-na in Chinese transcription) as a large city in 
which the chief of the Vardaks resided. Its ruin may be dated 
from the aera of the Mohammedan conquest, for Baber in his 
Memoirs speaks of Houpian as if it were merely the name of the 
Pass which opens on the valley of the Ghorbund. According to 
Hardy, Alasanda was the birthplace of Menander (the Milinda of 
Sanskrit), the Graeco-Baktrian king. See Wilson's Ar. Antiq. 
pp. 179-182; V. de Saint-Martin, Etude, 21-26; Cunningham's 
Anc. Geog. of India, pp. 19-26; Bunbury's Hist, of Anc. Geog. 
i. 490-492 ; Weber's Die Griechen in Indien ■ and Hardy's Manual 
of Buddhism, p. 516. 

Note B. — Nikaia 

This is a Greek word meaning victorious, and may possibly 
be a translation of the indigenous name of the place. Wilson 
(Ar. Antiq. p. 183) takes this view, and fixes the site of Nikaia 
on the plain of Begram at a spot with ruins about some eighteen 
miles distant from Houpian. The original name of the place 
may have been Jayapura, which means tfie city of victory. 
According to others, Nikaia is a transliteration of Xichaia-gram, 
a place said to be in Kafiristan — that is, in the upper part of the 
valleys which slope away from the Hindu-Kush and carry their 
waters to the Kabul river on its left. A belief was at one time 
current that the Kafirs of Bajour were descended from the 
Macedonians whom Alexander had left there when he passed 
through the country on his way to India. They had, it was said, 
many points of character in common with the Greeks. They 
were celebrated for their beauty and their European complexions. 
They worshipped idols, drank wine in silver cups or vases, used 
chairs and tables, and spoke a language unknown to their neigh- 
bours. Elphinstone during his Kabul mission (in 1808) caused 



APPENDICES 333 

inquiries to be made as to the truth of these reports, which had 
greatly excited his curiosity. It was found that though they 
were in the main correct, yet the fact that the people had no 
certain traditions of their own as to their origin, while the 
languages spoken by the different tribes were all of them closely 
allied to Sanskrit, showed the theory of their Greek origin to be 
untenable. In the list which was furnished to the envoy of the 
names of their tribes and villages, Nisa is the only one in which 
any similarity to Nikaia can be traced. In Lassen's opinion, 
Nikaia was not built on the site of any previously existing town, 
but was first founded by Alexander, who named it the victorious 
in anticipation of the triumphs which awaited him in India. 
General Abbott identified it with Nangnihar, a place about four 
or five miles west of Jalalabad, which he thought Curtius took to 
be the point where Alexander first entered Indian territory. 
General Cunningham again, like Ritter and Droysen, thinks that 
Nikaia must have been Kabul, otherwise that important town, 
through which Alexander must have marched, would be passed 
over by his historians without mention. He cites in proof a 
passage from the DionysiaM of Nonnus, in which Nikaia is 
described as a stone city situated near a lake. The lake, he 
says, is a remarkable feature which is peculiar in Northern India 
to Kabul and Kashmir. The authority of Nonnus, however, on 
such a point is of no worth whatever. Wilson's view that Nikaia 
occupied the site of Bagram seems preferable to any other. It 
is the view also which Bunbury favours. (See his History of 
Ancient Geography, p. 439 u.) 

Note C. — Aspasioi Assakenoi 

The Aspasioi are the people called by Strabo, in his list of the 
tribes which occupied the country between the Kophes and the 
Indus, the Hippasioi. They are easily to be recognised under 
either of these names as the As'vaka who are mentioned in the 
Mahabharata along with the Gandhara as the barbarous in- 
habitants of far distant regions in the north. The name of the 
As'vaka, derived from as'va, " a horse," means cavaliers, and 
indicates that their country was renowned in primitive times, as 
it is at the present day, for its superior breed of horses. The 
fact that the Greeks translated their name into Hippasioi (from 
iWos, a horse) shows that they must have been aware of its 
etymological signification. V. de Saint-Martin inclines to think 
that the name of the Hippasioi is partly preserved in that of the 
Pacha'i, a considerable tribe located in the upper regions of the 



334 APPENDICES 

Kophes basin. It is more distinctly preserved in Asip or Isap, 
the Pukhto name of this tribe, called by Mohammedans the 
Yusufzai. The name of the Assakenoi, like that of the Aspasioi, 
represents the Sanskrit As'vaka, which in the popular dialect is 
changed into Assaka, and by the addition of the Persian plural 
termination into Assakan, a form which Arrian has all but exactly 
transcribed, and which appears without any change in the Assa- 
kanoi of Strabo and the Assacani of Curtius. They are now 
represented by the Aspin of Chitral and the Yashkun of Gilgit. 
Some writers think, however, that the name of the Assakans or 
Asvakans is still extant in that of the Afghans, for the change of 
the sibilant into the rough aspirate is quite normal, and also that 
of k into g, a mute of its own order. Dr. Bellew, however, in his 
Inquiry into the Ethnography of Afghanistan, finds the source of 
the name in the Armenian Aghvan, and says it seems clear from 
what he has explained that the name Afghan merely means 
"mountaineer," and is neither an ethnic term of distinct race 
nationality nor of earlier origin than the period of the Roman 
dominion in Asia Minor. See the Inquiry, pp. 196-208. 

Note D. — Mazaga 

The name of this place, which in Sanskrit would appear as 
Mas'aka, has various forms in the classics — Massaga as in 
our author here, Massaka in his Indika, Mazaga in Curtius, 
and Masoga in Strabo, who says it was the capital of King 
Assakanos. The exact position of this important place has not 
yet been ascertained, but its name as that of an ancient site still 
remains in the country. The Emperor Baber states in his 
Memoirs that at the distance of two rapid marches from the town 
of Bajore (the capital of the province of the same name), lying to 
the west of the river Pafijkore', there was a town called Masha- 
nagar on the river of Sevad (Swat). Rennell identified this name 
with the Massaga of Alexander's historians, and no doubt 
correctly. M. Court, who has given interesting information 
about the country of the Yuzafzais, which he collected among the 
inhabitants of the plains, learned from them that at twenty-four 
miles from Bajore there exists a ruined site known under the 
double name of Maskhine and Massangar (Massanagar). In the 
grammar again of Panini, who was a native of Gandhara, in 
which the Assakan territory was comprised, the word Mas'akavati 
occurs, given as the name both of a river and a district. It may 
then fairly be presumed that Massaga was the capital of the 
Mas'akavati district, and that the impetuous stream which, as we 



APPENDICES 335 

learn from Curtius, ran between steep banks and made access to 
Massaga difficult on the east side, was the Mas'akavati of Panini 
(v. Lassen, Ind. Alt. II. pp. 136-138; V. de Saint-Martin, jttude, 
pp. 35, 36 ; and Abbott, Gradus ad Aornori). Curtius (viii. 37, 38) 
describes with more minuteness than Arrian the nature of the 
engineering operations designed to make the attack against the 
walls practicable. He states that Assacanus, the king of the 
place, died before Alexander's arrival, and not after the siege had 
begun, as Arrian relates. He adds that Assacanus was succeeded 
by his mother (wife?), whose name was Cleophis, and who, 
according to Justin, bore a son whose paternity was ascribed to 
Alexander. In reference to this statement Dr. Bellew remarks 
that at the present day several of the chiefs and ruling families 
in the neighbouring states of Chitral and Badakhshan boast a 
lineal descent from Alexander the Great. 



Note E. — Bazira 

Some writers have taken Bazira to be Bajore, which lies mid- 
way between the river of Kunar and the Landai', but there is 
nothing beyond the similarity of the two names to recommend 
this view. As the Bazirians fled for refuge to the rock Aornos, 
which overhung the Indus, it is evident they could not have 
inhabited a place so remote from the rock as Bajore. Cun- 
ningham finds a more likely position for Bazira at Bazar, " a large 
village situated on the Kalpan, or Kali-pani river, and quite close 
to the town of Rustam, which is built on a very extensive old 
mound. . . According to tradition this was the site of the 
original town of Bazar. The position is an important one, as it 
stands just midway between the Swat and the Indus rivers, and 
has therefore been from time immemorial the entrepot of trade 
between the rich valley of Swat and the large towns on the Indus 
and Kabul rivers. . . . This identification is much strengthened 
by the proximity of Mount Dantalok, which is most probably the 
same range of hills as the Monies Daedali of the Greeks." See 
his Anc. Geog. of India, pp. 65, 66. 



Note F. — Aornos 

The identification of this celebrated rock has been one of the 
most perplexing problems of Indian archaeology. The descrip- 
tions given of it by the classical writers are more or less discrepant, 
and their indications as to its position very vague and obscure. 



336 APPENDICES 

It has thus been identified with various positions, against each of 
which objections of more or less weight may be urged, but the 
view of General Abbott, who has identified it with Mount Maha- 
ban, has the balance of argument in its favour, and is now 
generally adopted. The rock, to judge from Arrian's description 
of it, must have been in reality a mountain of very considerable 
height, with a summit of tableland crowned here and there with 
steep precipices. Curtius, on the other hand, says that the rock, 
which was on all sides steep and rugged, did not rise to its 
pinnacle in slopes of ordinary height and of easy ascent, but that 
in shape it resembled the conical pillar of the racecourse, called 
the meta, which springs from a broad basis and gradually tapers 
till it terminates in a sharp point. Here Arrian, who drew his 
facts from Ptolemy, a prominent actor in capturing Aornos, is, as 
usual, a safer guide than Curtius, who wrote for effect, and often 
dealt unscrupulously with the facts of history. Arrian, again, is 
at variance with Diodoros in his estimate both of the circuit and 
of the height of the rock, for while with him it has a circuit of 
200 stadia (about 23 miles) and a height of 11, Diodoros 
reduces the circuit by one-half and increases the height to 16 
stadia. Curtius is silent on these points, but he mentions a 
circumstance of great importance which Arrian has failed to note, 
namely, that the roots of the rock were washed by the river 
Indus. That he is right here cannot be questioned, for the 
statement is corroborated both by Diodoros and by Strabo (xv. 
687), while Arrian, who says nothing that can lead us to think 
that his view was different, supplies us with a proof that Aornos 
was close to the Indus, for he says of the city of Embolima, which 
we now know to have been on the Indus, that it was situated close 
to Aornos. The position thus indicated is about sixty miles 
above Attak, where the Indus escapes into the plains from a long 
and narrow mountain gorge which the ancients mistook for its 
source. Colonel Abbott in 1854 explored this neighbourhood, 
and came to the conclusion that Mount Mahaban, a hill which 
abuts precipitously on the western bank of the Indus about eight 
miles west from the site of Embolima, was Aornos. His argu- 
ments in support of this identification are given in his Gradus ad 
Aornon. His description of Mount Mahaban agrees in the main 
with that which Arrian has given of Aornos. "The rock 
Aornos," he says, "was the most remarkable feature of the 
country, as is the Mahaban. It was the refuge of all the neigh- 
bouring tribes. It was covered with forests. It had good soil 
sufficient for a thousand ploughs, and pure springs of water every- 
where abounded. It was 4125 feet above the plain, and 14 



APPENDICES 337 

miles in circuit. It was precipitous on the side of Embolima, yet 
not so steep but that 220 horse and the war-engines were taken 
to the summit. The summit was a plain where cavalry could act. 
It would be difficult to offer a more faithful description of the 
mount." "Why the historians," he adds, "should all call it the 
rock Aornos, it would be difficult to say. The side on which 
Alexander scaled the main summit had certainly the character of 
a rock, but the whole description of Arrian indicates a table 
mountain." Cunningham, in his Ancient Geography of India, 
advances some arguments against this identification, but they 
cannot be considered sufficiently cogent to warrant its rejection 
unless a better could be substituted. That which he proposes, 
however, is altogether untenable. What he suggests is that the 
hill-fortress of Rani-gat, situated immediately above the small 
village of Nogram, about sixteen miles north by west from Ohind, 
which he takes to be the site of Embolima, corresponds in all 
essential particulars, except in its elevation (under 1200 feet), 
with the description of Aornos as given by Arrian, Strabo, and 
Diodoros. Now if the elevation stated, which is some 6000 feet 
under what Arrian assigns to Aornos, was really the height of the 
rock, then the details of the operations by which it was captured 
are rendered partly unintelligible. Thus, why should Ptolemy, 
after ascending the rock to a certain distance, have kindled a fire 
to let Alexander, who remained at the base, know where he was ? 
Can we not easily see with the naked eye from the foot to the 
top of a small hill only ten or eleven hundred feet high ?• More- 
over, we are informed that it took Alexander from daybreak till 
noon to reach the position occupied by Ptolemy. Can it be 
supposed that all that space of time was required for the ascent 
of a hill not much higher than Arthur's Seat, near Edinburgh ? 
The highest mountain in Great Britain could be climbed in half 
the time. Another equally fatal objection to this theory is the 
distance of Rani-gat from the Indus. The roots of the rock were 
indubitably washed by that river, but Rani-gat is no less than 
sixteen miles distant from it. At the same time, if Rani-gat were 
Aornos, then Ohind cannot be Embolima, for Arrian says that 
Embolima was close to (£vveyyvs) Aornos. The identification of 
the rock with Raja Hodi's fort opposite Attak, first suggested by 
General Court and afterwards supported by the learned missionary 
Loewenthal, has in its favour the fact that the position is on the 
Indus, but it is otherwise untenable. It is uncertain whether the 
name Aornos is purely Greek or an attempt at the transliteration 
of the indigenous name. If purely Greek, then Dionysios Perieg. 
(1. 1 1 50) is right in saying that men called the rock Aornis 

z 



338 APPENDICES 

because even swift-winged birds had difficulty in flying over it. 
If indigenous, the name may be referred to Aranai, which, as Dr. 
Bellew states, is a common Hindi name for hill ridges in these 
parts. He identifies the rock as Shcth Dum or Malka, on the 
heights of Mahaban, the stronghold of the Wahabi fanatics, at the 
destruction of which he was present in 1864. See his Inquiry, 
p. 68. 

Note G. — Nysa 

Arrian's narrative indicates neither in what part of the Kophen 
and Indus Doab Nysa was situated, nor at what time Alexander 
made his expedition to the place. But we learn from Curtius 
(viii. 10), Strabo (xv. 697), and Justin (xii. 7) that he was there 
before he had as yet crossed the Choaspes and taken Massaga, 
and Arrian says nothing from which it can be inferred that his 
opinion was different. Nysa was therefore most probably the 
city which Ptolemy calls Nagara or Dionysopolis, and which has 
been identified with Nanghenhar (the Nagarahara of Sanskrit), an 
ancient capital, the ruins of which have been traced at a distance 
of four or five miles west from Jalalabad. This place was called 
also Udyanapura, i.e. " the city of gardens," which the Greeks from 
some resemblance in the sound translated into Dionysopolis, a 
compound meaning " the city of Dionysos." At some distance 
eastward from this site, but on the opposite bank of the river, 
there is a mountain called Mar - Koh (i.e. snake-hill) which, if 
Nysa be Nagara, may be regarded as the Mount Meros which 
lay near it, and was ascended by Alexander. It has, however, 
been assumed that, in Arrian's opinion, the expedition to Nysa 
was not an early incident of the campaign in the Doab, but the 
last of any importance after the capture of Aornos. The only 
ground for this assumption is that his account of the expedition 
to Nysa follows that of all the other transactions recorded to 
have occurred west of the Indus. But the reason of this is not 
far to seek. Arrian, on examining the accounts given by different 
writers of the visit to Nysa and Meros, concluded that they were 
for the most part apocryphal, and as he did not wish to mix up 
romance with history, reserved the subject for separate treatment. 
Abbott, who took it for granted that Arrian wished it to be 
understood that Alexander visited Nysa after the capture of the 
rock, looked for the site of that city nearer the Indus than the 
plain of Jalalabad ; and found one to suit the requirements in the 
neighbourhood of Mount Elum, called otherwise Ram Takht or 
"the throne of Ram." This remarkable mountain, he says, rises 
like some mighty pagoda to the height of nine or ten thousand 



APPENDICES 339 

feet, and answers in many points to the descriptions given of 
Meros, being densely covered with forests, full of wild beasts 
and of a height at which, in that part of India, ivy, box, etc., 
flourish. At its roots are the following old towns with names all 
derivable from Bacchos : Lusa (Nysa), Lyocah (Lyaeus), Elye, 
Awan, Bimeeter (Bimeter), Bokra (Bou-Kera), and Kerauna 
(Keraunos). Beneath the town of Lusa flows the river Burindu, 
which is occasionally unfordable during the spring. Abbott 
makes this remark about the river with reference to the statement 
in Plutarch that when Alexander sat down before Nysa, the 
Macedonians had some difficulty of advancing to the attack on 
account of the depth of the river that washed its walls. V. de 
Saint-Martin and Dr. Bellew identify Nysa with Nysatta, a village 
near the northern bank of the Kabul river about six miles below 
Hashtnagar, but except some correspondence between the names, 
there seems little to recommend this view. Strabo has one or 
two passages concerning Nysa. " In Sophocles," he says, " a 
person is introduced speaking the praises of Nysa, as a mountain 
sacred to Bacchos : ' Whence I beheld the famed Nysa, the 
resort of the Bacchanalian bands, which the horned Iacchos 
makes his most pleasant and beloved retreat, where no bird's 
clang is heard.' From such stories they gave the name Nysaians 
to some imaginary nation, and called their city Nysa, founded by 
Bacchos ; a mountain above the city they called Meros, alleging 
as a reason for imposing these names that the ivy and vine grow 
there, although the latter does not perfect its fruit, for the bunches 
of grapes drop off before maturity in consequence of excessive 
rains" (xv. 687). In a subsequent passage (697) he says : "After 
the river Kophes follows the Indus. The country lying between 
these two rivers is occupied by the Astakenoi, Masianoi, Nysaioi, 
and the Hippasioi. Next is the territory of Assakanos, where is 
the city Masoga." Pliny also has one or two notices of Nysa. 
"Most writers," he says (H. N. vi. 21), "assume that the city 
Nysa and also the mountain Merus, consecrated to the god 
Bacchus, belong to India. This is the mountain whence arose 
the fable that Bacchus issued from the thigh (/wypds) of Jupiter. 
They also assign to India the country of the Aspagani so plentiful 
in vines, laurel, and box, and all kinds of fruitful trees that grow 
in Greece." In Book viii. 141, he says "that on Nysa, a 
mountain in India, there are lizards 24 feet in length, and in 
colour yellow or purple or blue." 

The legend that Dionysos was bred in the thigh of Zeus owes 
its origin to a figurative mode of expression, common among the 
Phoenicians and Hebrews, which was taken by the Greeks in a 



34o 



APPENDICES 



literal sense. See the Epistle to the Hebrews, vii. 10. The 
Kafirs who now occupy the country through which Alexander 
first marched on his way from the Kaukasos to the Indus, are 
said by Elphinstone to drink wine to great excess, men and 
women alike. " They dance," he adds, " with great vehemence, 
using many gesticulations, and beating the ground with great 
force, to a music which is generally quick, but varied and wild. 
Such usages would certainly have struck the Macedonians as 
Bacchanalian." So certainly would such a spectacle as the 
following, described by Bishop Heber in his Indian Journal: 
"The two brothers Rama and Luchman, in a splendid palkee, 
were conducting the retreat of their army. The divine Huniman, 
as naked and almost as hairy as the animal he represented, was 
gamboling before them, with a long tail tied round his waist, a 
mask to represent the head of a baboon, and two great pointed 
clubs in his hands. His army followed, a number of men with 
similar tails and masks, their bodies dyed with indigo, and also 
armed with clubs. I was never so forcibly struck with the 
identity of Rama and Bacchus. Here were before me Bacchus, 
his brother Ampelus, the Satyrs, smeared with wine-lees, and the 
great Pan commanding them." I may, in conclusion, subjoin a 
notice of Bacchos in India from Polyainos : " Dionysos marching 
against the Indians in order that the Indians might receive him 
did not equip his troops with armour that could be seen, but 
with soft raiment and fawn skins. The spears were wrapped 
round with ivy, and the thyrsus had a sharp point. In making 
signals he used cymbals and drums instead of the trumpet, and, 
by warming the enemy with wine, he turned them (from war) to 
dancing. These and all other Bacchic orgies were the stratagems 
of war by which Bacchos subjugated the Indians and all the rest 
of Asia. Dionysos, when in India, seeing that his army could 
not endure the burning heat, seized the three-peaked mountain of 
India. Of its peaks one is called Korasibie, another Kondaske, 
but the third he himself named Meros in commemoration of his 
birth. Upon it were many fountains of water sweet of taste, 
abundance of game and fruit, and snows, which gave new vigour 
to the frame. The troops quartered there would take the bar- 
barians of the plains by surprise, and put them to an easy rout 
by attacking them with missiles from their commanding position 
on the heights above. Dionysos having conquered the Indians, 
invaded Baktria, taking with him as auxiliaries the Indians them- 
selves and the Amazons." 



APPENDICES 341 

Note H. — Gold-digging Ants 

Herodotos was the first writer who communicated to the 
Western nations the story of these ants. He relates it thus 
(iii. 102): "There are other Indians bordering on the city of 
Kaspatyros and the country of Paktyike (Afghanistan) settled 
northward of the other Indians, who resemble the Baktrians in 
the way they live. They are the most warlike of the Indians, 
and are the men whom they send to procure the gold (paid in 
tribute to the King of Persia), for their country adjoins the desert 
of sand. In this desert then and in the sand there are ants, in 
size not quite so big as dogs, but larger than foxes. Some that 
were captured were taken thence, and are with the King of the 
Persians. These ants, forming their dwelling underground, heap 
up the sand as the ants in Greece do, and in the same manner ; 
and are very like them in shape. The sand which they cast up 
is mixed with gold. The Indians therefore go to the desert to 
get this sand, each man having three camels . . . (c. 105). 
When the Indians arrive at the spot they fill their sacks with the 
sand, and return home with all possible speed. For the ants, as 
the Persians say, having readily discovered them by the smell, 
pursue them, and, as they are the swiftest of all animals, not one 
of the Indians could escape except by getting the start while the 
ants were assembling." 

Nearchos (quoted by Strabo, xv. 705) says that he saw skins 
of the ants which dig up gold as large as the skins of leopards. 
Megasthenes also (as quoted in the same passage) says that 
among the Dardai, a populous nation of the Indians living 
towards the east and among the mountains, there was a mountain 
plain of about 3000 stadia in circumference, below which were 
mines containing gold, which ants not less in size than foxes dig 
up. In winter they dig holes and pile up the earth in heaps, like 
moles, at the pit-mouths. Pliny (xi. 31) repeats the story in these 
terms : " The horns of the Indian ant fixed up in the temple of 
Hercules at Erythrae were objects of great wonderment. These 
ants excavate gold from mines found in the country of those 
Northern Indians who are called the Dardae. They are of the 
colour of cats and of the size of Egyptian wolves. The Indians 
steal the gold which they dig up in winter during the hot season 
when the ants keep within their burrows to escape the stifling 
sultriness of the weather. The ants, however, aroused by the 
smell, sally out and frequently overtake and mangle the robbers, 
though they have the swiftest of camels to aid their flight." It is 
now understood that the gold-digging ants were neither, as the 



342 



APPENDICES 



ancients supposed, an extraordinary kind of real ants, nor, as 
many learned men have since supposed, larger animals mistaken 
for ants, but Tibetan miners who, like their descendants of the 
present day, preferred working their mines in winter when the 
frozen soil stands well and is not likely to trouble them by falling 
in. The Sanskrit word pipilika denotes both an ant and a 
particular kind of gold. 

The Dards consist now of several wild and predatory tribes 
which are settled on the north-west frontier of Kashmir and by 
the banks of the Indus. The gryphons who guarded the gold 
were Tibetan mastiffs, a breed of unmatched ferocity. Gold is 
still found in these regions. 

Note I. — Taxila 

Pliny, in his Natural History (vi. 21), gives sixty miles as the 
distance from Peukolatis (Hashtnagar) to Taxila. This would fix 
its site somewhere on the Haro river to the west of Hasan Abdal, 
or just two days' march from the Indus. But according to the 
itineraries of the Chinese pilgrims, Fa-Hian and Hwen Thsiang, 
Taxila lay at three days' journey to the east of the Indus, and as 
they made that journey, their authority on the point cannot be 
questioned. Taxila, it may be therefore concluded-, must have 
been situated in the immediate neighbourhood of Kala-ka-Sarai. 
Now at the distance of just one mile from this place, near the 
rock-seated village of Shah-Dheri, Cunningham discovered the 
ruins of a fortified city scattered over a wide space, extending 
about three miles from north to south, and two miles from east 
to west, and these ruins he took to be those of Taxila. They 
lie about eight miles south-east of Hasan Abdal, thirty-four miles 
west from the famous tope of Manikyala, and twenty-four miles 
north-west from Rawal Pindi. The most ancient part of 
these ruins, according to the belief of the natives, is a great 
mound rising to a height of sixty-eight feet above the bed of 
the stream, called the Tabra Nala, which flows past its east 
side. Cunningham's identification has now been accepted by 
all archaeologists, and a Greek text hitherto neglected strik- 
ingly confirms its correctness. This text is to be found in 
the Pseudo-Kallisthenes, and I here translate the remarks made 
upon it by Sylvain Levi in a paper which he submitted last 
year to the Socie'te Asiatique, and which will be found printed 
at pp. 236, 237 in the 15th volume of the 8th series of 
the Journal of that society : " The Pseudo-Kallisthenes dwells 
complacently on the sojourn of Alexander at Taxila and his 



APPENDICES 343 

conversations with the Brahmans. The Brahmans (III. xii. 
9, 10) blame the conduct of Kalanos, who, in violation of the 
duties of his caste, went to live with the Macedonians. ' It has 
not pleased him,' say they, ' to drink the water of wisdom at the 
river Tiberoboam.' And further on (III. xiii. 12) they ask, 
' How could Alexander be the master of all the world when he 
has not yet gone beyond the river Tiberoboam ? ' The Latin of 
Julius Valerius gives, in the first case, Tiberunco fiuvio ; in the 
second, Tyberoboam. The various readings of the Greek manu- 
scripts, indicated by C. Miiller in his edition (Didot, 1846), give 
Boroam, Baroam, Tiberio-potamos, and lastly (MS. A.) Tiber- 
nabon. The site fixed by Cunningham for the city of Taxila is 
distinctly traversed by a river called Tabra Nala, which divides 
into two the ancient city, and washes the foot of the citadel. 
The ease of confounding the € with A in the manuscripts per- 
mits the correction of Tibernabon into Tibernalon. The essen- 
tial part of the name is, moreover, Tabra, nala being a designation 
common to small affluents. The resemblance of the two words 
Tabranala and Tibernalos is at once apparent ; the persistence 
of geographical names has nothing surprising in it, especially in 
India. The city of Takshas'ila ought then to be placed definitely 
on the banks of the Tabranala (a small affluent of the Haro, 
which bends its course to the Indus, into which it falls twelve miles 
below Attock) in the position proposed by General Cunning- 
ham." 

Taxila, as Alexander found it, was very populous, and pos- 
sessed of almost incredible wealth. Pliny states that it was 
situated on a level where the hills sink down into the plain, 
while Strabo praises the soil as extremely fertile from the 
number of its springs and water - courses. The Chinese pil- 
grim, Hwen Thsiang, by whom it was visited in 630 a.d., 
and afterwards in 643, confirms what Strabo has reported. 
Taxila, which in Ptolemy's Geography appears as Taxiala, 
represents either the Sanskrit Takshas'ila, i.e. "hewn stone," 
or, more probably, Takshakas'ila, i.e. "Rock of Takshaka," 
the great Naga King. Others, however, take it to represent 
the Pali Takkas'ila, i.e. the rock of the Takkas, a powerful tribe 
which anciently occupied the regions between the Indus and the 
Chenab (v. Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, vol. xx. p. 343). 
The famous As'oka, the grandson of Chandragupta (Sandro- 
kottos), resided in Taxila during the lifetime of his father, 
Vindusara, as viceroy of the Panjab. About the beginning of 
the second century B.C. Taxila appears to have formed part of 
the dominions of the Graeco-Baktrian king, Eukratides. In 



344 



APPENDICES 



126 B.C. it was wrested from the Greeks by the Sus or Abars, with 
whom it remained for about three-quarters of a century, when it 
was conquered by the Kushan tribe under the great Kanishka. 
In the year 42 a.d. it is said to have been visited by Apollonios 
of Tyana and his companion, the Assyrian Damis, who wrote a 

J. &g*jMe£ 

1/ ■-.-. :-■. J 'b, 




^#5" 






Fig. 15. — Eukratides. 

narrative of the journey, which Philostratos professes to have 
followed in his life of Apollonios. In 400 a.d. it was visited by 
Fa-Hian, who calls it Chu-sha-shi-lo, i.e. "the severed head," 
the usual name by which Taxila was known to the Buddhists of 
India (v. Cunningham's Anc. Geog. of India, pp. 104-121). 

Note J.— Site of Alexander's Camp on the Hydasp£s 

It is a point of great importance to determine where the camp 
was situated which Alexander formed on reaching the Hydaspes, 
and which he made his headquarters till he effected the passage 
of the river. Without knowing this it cannot with certainty be 
decided at what point he made the passage or where he defeated 
Poros, or where he founded the two cities, Nikaia and Boukephala, 
which he built after his victory. Such high authorities as Sir A. 
Burnes, General Court, and General Abbott have placed the 
camp at Jhilam, but Lord Elphinstone and General Cunningham 
prefer Jalalpur, a place some thirty miles lower down the stream. 
These writers all drew their conclusions from personal knowledge 
of the localities concerned. Cunningham, who wrote later than 
the others, visited the Hydaspes in 1863, and in his Geography 
of A?iciait India (pp. 157-179) gives an account of the scope 
and results of his investigations. He points out that Alexander 
in advancing from Taxila to the Hydaspes had two roads — one 
called the upper, which proceeded through a rich and fertile 
country, past Rawal Pindi, Manikyala, and Rohtas to Jhilam, 
and ■ another called the lower, which proceeded, with an inclina- 



APPENDICES 345 

tion to southward, to Dudhial, and thence by Asanot and Vang 
to Jalalpur. He then shows from Strabo and Pliny that Alex- 
ander must have advanced by the lower road. According to 
Strabo (XV. i. 32), "the direction of Alexander's march, as far 
as the Hydaspgs, was, for the most part, towards the south ; 
after that, to the Hypanis, it was more towards the east." Now, 
if Alexander had taken the route by Jhilam he would have 
advanced in one continuous straight line, which is in direct 
opposition to the explicit statement of Strabo, which makes him 
deviate towards the south. Pliny again (vi. 21), quoting from 
Diognetos and Baiton, the mensores of Alexander, gives the 
distance from Taxila to the Hydaspes as 120 (Roman) miles. 
In comparing this distance with that from Shah-Dheri to Jhilam 
and Jalalpur respectively, we must reject Jhilam, which is no less 
than sixteen miles short of the recorded distance, while Jalalpur 
differs from it by less than two miles. The same author thinks 
that the camp probably extended for about six miles along the 
bank of the river from Shah Kabir, two miles to the north-east of 
Jalalpur, down to Syadpur, four miles to the west-south-west. In 
this position the left flank of the camp would have been only 
six miles from the wooded promontory of Kotera, where he in- 
tended to steal his passage across the river. The breadth of the 
Hydaspes at Jalalpur is about a mile and a quarter. 

Note K. — Battle with P6ros 

To the accounts of this memorable battle given by Arrian 
and the four other writers translated in this volume, I here add 
the account of it given by Polyainos in his work On the 
Stratagems of War (II. ix. 22) : 

"Alexander, in his Indian expedition, advanced to the 
Hydaspes with intention to cross it, when Porus appeared with 
his army on the other side determined to dispute his passage. 
Alexander then marched towards the head of the river, and 
attempted to cross it there. Thither also Porus marched, and 
drew up his army on the opposite side. He then made the 
same effort lower down ; there, too, Porus opposed him. Those 
frequent appearances of intention to cross it, without ever 
making one real attempt to effect it, the Indians ridiculed, and, 
concluding that he had no real design to pass the river, they 
became more negligent in attending his motions, when Alexander, 
by a rapid march gaining the banks, effected his purpose on 
barges, boats, and hides stuffed with straw, before the enemy 
had time to come up with him, who, deceived by so many feint 



346 APPENDICES 

attempts, yielded him at last an uninterrupted passage. In the 
battle against Porus, Alexander posted part of his cavalry in the 
right wing, and part he left as a body of reserve at a small 
distance on the plain. His left wing consisted of the phalanx 
and his elephants. Porus ordered his elephants to be formed 
against him, himself taking his station on an elephant at the 
head of his left wing. The elephants were drawn up within 
fifty yards of each other, and in those interstices was posted his 
infantry, so that his front exhibited the appearance of a great 
wall ; the elephants looked like so many towers, and the infantry 
like the parapet between them. Alexander directed his infantry 
to attack the enemy in front, while himself at the head of the 
horse advanced against the cavalry. Against those movements 
Porus ably guarded. But the beasts could not be kept in their 
ranks, and, wherever they deserted them, the Macedonians in a 
compact body pouring in closed with the enemy, and attacked 
them both in front and flank. The body of reserve, in the 
meantime wheeling round and attacking their rear, completed 
the defeat " {Shepherds Translation). 

Grote, referring to this battle, remarks that "the day on 
which it was fought was the greatest day of Alexander's life, if 
we take together the splendour and difficulty of the military 
achievement and the generous treatment of his conquered 
opponent." Military critics cannot point to a single strategical 
error in the whole series of operations conducted by Alexander 
himself, or his generals acting under his orders, from the 
time he encamped on the bank of the Hydaspes till the over- 
throw and surrender of Poros. At the same time the courage 
and skill with which the Indian king contended against the 
greatest soldier of antiquity, if not of all time, are worthy of the 
highest admiration, and present a striking contrast to the incom- 
petent generalship and pusillanimity of Darius. " The Greeks," 
says General Chesney, "were loud in praises of the Indians; 
never in all their eight years of constant warfare had they met 
with such skilled and gallant soldiers, who, moreover, surpassed 
in stature and bearing all the other races of Asia. . . . The 
Indian village community flourished even at that distant period, 
and in the brave and manly race which fought so stoutly under 
Porus twenty-two centuries ago we may recognise all the fine 
qualities of the Punjabi agrarian people of the present day, the 
gallant men who fought us in our turn so stubbornly, now the 
most valuable component of the Indian empire, and the best 
soldiers of its Queen-Empress." 



APPENDICES 347 

Note L. — The Kathaians 

The Kathaioi, it would appear from the text, inhabited the 
regions lying to the east of the Hydraotes. Some writers, 
however, as Strabo informs us (XV. i. 30), placed their country in 
the tract between the Hydaspes and Akesines, but this view is 
manifestly wrong. They are described by ancient authors as one 
of the most powerful nations of India. Their very name indicates 
their warlike propensities and predominance, for if it is not 
identical with that of the military caste, Kshatriya, it is at least 
a modified form of that word. Arrian subsequently (vi. 15) 
mentions a tribe of independent Indians whose name is a still 
closer transliteration of Kshatriya, the Xathroi, whose territories 
lay between the Indus and the lower course of the Akesines. 
Strabo (XV. i. 30) notices some of the peculiar manners and 
customs of the Kathaians, such as infanticide, and Sati. Lassen 
has pointed out that their name is connected with that of the 
Kattia, a nomadic race scattered at intervals through the plains 
of the Panjab, but supposed to be the aborigines of the country 
and of Kolarian descent. Their name occurs in that of the 
province of Kathiawar, which now comprises the province of 
Gujerat. 

Note M. — Sangala 

Sir E. H. Bunbury, referring to the uncertainty of the 
identifications of the tribes and cities of the Panjab mentioned 
by Alexander's historians, says : " While the general course of his 
march must have followed approximately the same line of route 
that has been frequented in all ages from the banks of the Indus 
to those of the Beas, his expeditions against the various warlike 
tribes that refused submission to his arms led him into frequent 
excursions to the right and left of his main direction. And with 
regard to these localities we have a general clue to guide us. 
The most important of these sites to determine would be that of 
Sangala, the capital of the Cathaeans, which, according to the 
narrative of Arrian, was situated between the Hydraotes and the 
Hyphasis. Hence it was placed by Burnes at Lahore, and by 
others at Umritsir. But on the other hand there are not wanting 
strong reasons for identifying Sangala with the Sakala of Indian 
writers, and this was certainly situated to the west of the Hydraotes, 
between that river and the Acesines " {Hist, of Anc. Geog. pp. 
444, 445)- This was the view of General Cunningham, who, taking 
Sakala or Sakala (the Sagala of Ptolemy's Geography) to be the 
name in Sanskrit of the place which the Greeks called Sangala, found 



348 APPENDICES 

a site for it at Sanglawala-Tiba, a small rocky hill with ruins upon 
it and with a large swamp at its base, and situated between the 
Ravi (Hydraotes) and the Chenab (Akesines) at a distance of about 
sixty miles to the west of Lahore. This was no doubt the site of 
the S'akala of Sanskrit writers and of the She-kie-lo of the Chinese 
pilgrim Hwen Thsiang, who visited the place in 630 a.d. But 
it cannot have been the site of the Sangala of the Greeks, for, in 
the first place, according to the testimony of all the historians, 
that city lay between the Hydraotes and the Hyphasis, and was 
attacked by Alexander after he had crossed the former river. To 
meet this objection Cunningham assumes that Alexander must 
have recrossed the Hydraotes on hearing that the Kathaians had 
risen in his rear. His thus turning aside from the direction of 
his march to make his rear secure is quite consistent with his 
usual practice, but the historians say nothing from which it can 
possibly be inferred that on this occasion he made any retrograde 
movement. But again philology as well as history is adverse 
to this identification, for, as has lately been shown by M. Sylvain 
LeVi (Journal Asiatique, series viii. vol. xv. pp. 237-239), Sangala, 
in accordance with the rules of transcription, must be taken to 
represent not Sakala, but Samkala. Now, just as in Diodoros 
and Curtius we find Sangala mentioned in connection with a king 
called Sophytes, so in an Appendix to Panini's Grammar, called 
the Gana-patha, Samkala is mentioned in connection with 
Saubhuta, which, in accordance with the rules of transcription 
and the Greek practice of designating Indian rulers after their 
territories, is evidently the name of the country over which 
Sophytes ruled. This country, which was rich and prosperous, as 
its very name implies, lay between the Hydraotes and the 
Hyphasis, probably in the district of Amritsar and towards the 
hills. Arrian in his narrative of the campaign between these two 
rivers makes no mention of Sophytes, or, as he calls him, 
Sopeithes, but he afterwards refers to a king of this name whose 
dominions lay between the Hydaspes and Akesines. Strabo 
was aware of the discrepancy of the accounts as to where the 
dominions of the Kathaians and King Sophytes were situated. 

Note N. — Alexander's Altars on the Hyphasis 

These altars are mentioned by Pliny, who says (vi. 21): "The 
Hyphasis was the limit of the marches of Alexander, who, how- 
ever, crossed it, and dedicated altars on the further bank." 
Pliny stands alone in placing these altars on the left bank of 
the river. The historians all place them on the right bank. 



APPENDICES 349 

Philostratos states that Apollonios of Tyana on his journey into 
India in the second century of our aera, found the altars still 
subsisting and their inscriptions still legible. Plutarch affirms 
that in his days they were held in much veneration by the 
Praisians, whose kings, he says, were in the habit of crossing the 
Ganges every year to offer sacrifices in the Grecian manner upon 
them. It would, however, be unsafe to place much credit in 
either of these statements. The altars have been sought for in 
recent times, but not the slightest vestige of them has been 
discovered. Masson and some other modern writers place them 
on the Gharra (the united stream of the Vipas'a and the S'atadru 
(or Satlej), but this view, while otherwise exposed to serious 
objections, is upset by the fact alone that in ancient times the 
two rivers united at a point forty miles below their present junction. 
As Pliny (vi. 21) gives the distance from the Hyphasis to the 
Hesidrus (Satlej) along the Royal Road at 169 miles, it is evident 
that the altars must have been situated at a point high above 
the junction of these two rivers. V. de Saint-Martin is inclined 
to think that the altars may have been situated near a chain of 
heights met with in ascending the Beias, and known locally under 
the name of the Sekandar-giri, that is, "Alexander's mountain." 
These heights are at no great distance from Rajagiri, a small and 
obscure place, but supposed to represent Rajagriha mentioned 
in the Ramayana as the capital of a line of princes called the 
As'vapati (or Assapati in Prakrit) who governed the Kekaya, or, 
as Arrian calls them in his Indika, the Kekeoi. Lassen, followed 
by Saint-Martin, identified Sopeithes as belonging to the line of 
princes indicated. The identification has been superseded by a 
better, but Saint-Martin's argument, as far as it concerns the 
position of the altars, is not thereby affected. Sir E. H. Bunbury 
considers that the point where Alexander erected the twelve 
altars cannot be regarded as determined within even approximate 
limits. It appears probable, he thinks, that they were situated at 
some distance above the confluence of the two rivers, and not 
very far from the point where the Beas emerges from the 
mountain ranges. We learn indeed, he adds, that throughout 
his advance Alexander kept as near as he could to the mountains ; 
partly from the idea that he would thus find the great rivers more 
easily passable, as being nearer their sources; partly from an 
exaggerated impression of the sterile and desert character of the 
plains farther south {Hist, of Anc. Geog. p. 444). 



35 o APPENDICES 

Note O. — Voyage down the Hydaspes and Akesin£s 
to the Indus 

From the point of embarkation at Nikaia (Mong) to the 
confluence of the united streams of the Panjab with the Indus, 
the distance in a straight line may be reckoned at about 300 
miles. Alexander in descending to this confluence had no 
sooner left the dominions of Poros than he was engaged in a 
constant succession of hostilities with the riparian tribes. He 
had no intention of leaving India as a fugitive. He must depart 
as a conqueror and master of all wherever he appeared. He had 
no wish, therefore, even had it been possible, to drop quietly down 
stream to the ocean. He must demand submission to his 
authority from all the tribes he might encounter on his way, and, 
if this were refused, enforce it at the sword's point These tribes 
were the bravest of the brave in India — the very ancestors of the 
Rajputras, or Rajputs, whose splendid military qualities have 
spread their fame throughout the world. Such of these tribes as 
inhabited the fertile regions adjacent to the rivers seemed to have 
settled in towns and villages and to have practised agriculture, 
while those that tenanted the deserts which extended far eastward 
into the interior led a half-wandering pastoral life, and subsisted 
as much on the produce of rapine as on the produce of their 
flocks and herds. They were all proudly jealous of their 
independence, and owned no authority but that of their proper 
chiefs. Though they were separated into distinct tribes, which were 
almost perpetually at feud, they were still able when confronted 
with a common danger to combine into formidable confederacies. 
In all times they have opposed to invasion a vigorous and some- 
times a desperate resistance (v. Saint-Martin, Etude, p. 113). 

Note P. — The Malloi and Oxydrakai 

The names of these two warlike tribes are very frequently 
conjoined in the narratives of the historians. In Sanskrit works 
they appear as the Malava and the Kshudraka, and a verse of the 
Mahabharata combines them in a single appellation, Kshudraka- 
malava. They are mentioned in combination by Panini also as 
two Bahika people of the north-west. Arrian (Indika, c. iv.) 
places the Oxydrakai on the Hydaspes ahnv its confluence with 
the Akesines. It is doubtful, however, that this was their real 
position. Bunbury inclines to think that they lay on the east 
or left bank of the Satlej — the province of Bahawalpur — 
and that they may very well have extended as far as the junction 



APPENDICES 351 

of the Satlej with the Indus and the neighbourhood of Uchh. 
General Cunningham, he adds, is alone in placing the Oxydracae 
to the north of the Malli. That author has, however, the Indika 
to support his view. Their name in the classics appears in 
various forms, Strabo and Stephanos Byz. calling them Hydrakai, 
Pliny Sydracae, and Diodoros Syrakousai. Strabo says they 
were reported to be the descendants of Bacchos because the vine 
grew in their country, and because their kings displayed great 
pomp in setting out on their warlike expeditions after the Bacchic 
manner (XV. i. 8). They are no doubt to be identified with the 
S'udras, whose name in early times did not denote a caste, as it 
did afterwards, but a tribe of aborigines, or, at all events, a tribe 
of non-Aryan origin. The final ka in the Greek form of their 
name is a common Sanskrit suffix to ethnic names given or with- 
held at random. The single combat between Dioxippos and a 
Macedonian bravo called Horratas took place after a great banquet 
at which Alexander entertained the envoys of the Oxydrakai. 

The territory of the Malloi was of great extent, comprehending 
a part of the Doab formed by the Akesines and the Hydraotes, 
and extending, according to Arrian {Indika, c. iv.), to the con- 
fluence of the Akesines and the Indus. In the Mahabharata they 
figure as a great people, being there distinguished into the 
Eastern, Southern, and Western Malavas (Mahabh. vi. 107). They 
are mentioned also in the inscription of Samudragupta (of the 
first half of the third century a.d.) among other peoples of the 
Panjab who were subject to the King of Madhya-desha (v. V. 
de Saint-Martin, Etude, pp. 116-120). "These two races," says 
Thirlwall {History of Greece, vii. 40), " were composed of widely 
different elements ; for the name of one appears to have been 
derived from that of the Sudra caste ; and it is certain that the 
Brahmins were predominant in the other. We can easily under- 
stand why they did not intermarry and were seldom at peace 
with each other." The feud, however, may have been one of 
race rather than of caste, though no doubt the distinctions of 
caste originated in difference of race. 

Note Q. — The Capital of the Malloi 

Diodoros and Curtius assign this city to the Oxydrakai, but 
erroneously. General Cunningham identifies it with Multan and 
takes it to be also the capital of the Malloi " to which many men 
from other cities had fled for safety." Arrian seems, however, to 
indicate that the two places were distinct. V. de Saint-Martin 
inclines to identify the Mallian capital with Harrapa (the Harapa 



352 



APPENDICES 



which Cunningham takes to be the city captured by Perdikkas). 
Multan is at present the capital of the province of the same name, 
which comprises pretty nearly the same territories as those occu- 
pied by the Malloi of the Greek historians. Multan is not situated 
on the Ravi now, but on the Chenab, and at a distance of more 
than thirty miles below the junction of that river with the Ravi. 
This circumstance would be quite fatal to Cunningham's view if 
the junction had not shifted. But it has shifted, for in Alexander's 
time the rivers met about fifteen miles below Multan. " The old 
channel (Cunningham says) still exists and is duly entered in the 
large maps of the Multan division. It leaves the present bed at 
Sarai Siddhu and follows a winding course for thirty miles to the 
south-south-west, when it suddenly turns to the west for eighteen 
miles as far as Multan, and, after completely encircling the 
fortress, continues its westerly course for five miles below Multan. 
It then suddenly turns to the south-south-west for ten miles, and 
is finally lost in the low-lying lands of the bed of the Chenab. 
Even to this day the Ravi clings to its ancient channel, and at 
all high floods the waters of the river still find their way to 
Multan by the old bed, as I myself have witnessed on two occa- 
sions. The date of the change is unknown, but was certainly 
subsequent to a.d. 713." From Arrian's narrative it would 
appear that Alexander occupied three days, one of which was 
spent in rest, in advancing from the city of the Brachmans to the 
city of the Malloi. The distance traversed would be thirty-four 
miles, if Cunningham's identification of the former city with Atari 
and of the latter with Multan be correct. The city where 
Alexander was wounded appears from Arrian's account to have 
been at some distance from the Hydraotes, and if so could not 
have been Multan. 

Note R. — Alexander in Sindh 

Arrian and the other historians of Alexander have treated 
very briefly and vaguely his campaign in the valley of the Indus. 
Hence it is difficult to trace the course of his operations as he 
descended from the great confluence at Uchh to Patala where 
the Indus bifurcates to form the Delta. The distance between 
these two points, if measured by the course of the river, may be 
estimated at nearly four hundred miles, yet we find, as Saint- 
Martin observes, that in the descent not a single distance is indi- 
cated, nor a single peculiar feature of the country described 
which might serve as a sign-post for the direction and guidance 
of our inquiries. It is at the same time difficult to reconcile the 



APPENDICES 353 

discrepancies found to exist in the accounts transmitted to us, 
and altogether the search for identities must here mainly concern 
itself with the names of tribes. In determining how these tribes 
were collocated it is necessary to take cognisance of the changes 
which have taken place in the course of the Indus since Alex- 
ander's time. Captain M'Murdo was the first to call attention 
(in 1834) to these changes, which were not confined to the 
terminal course of the river, but extended more than two hundred 
miles above the Delta. He proved that up to the seventh century 
of our aera the main stream of the Indus, instead of following its 
present channel, pursued a more direct course to the sea some 
sixty or seventy miles farther east than it now flows. The old 
channel, which leaves the present stream at some distance above 
Bhakar, passes the ruins of Alor, and then proceeds directly 
towards the south nearly as far as Brahmanabad, above which it 
divides into two channels, one rejoining the present course above 
Haidarabad, while the other pursues a south - easterly course 
towards the Ran of Kachh. The voyage down the lower part of 
the course took place during the season of the inundation when 
the plains were laid far and wide under water, and the current was 
rapid and violent. As the march followed mainly the line of the 
river the country would appear to the Macedonians extremely 
rich, fertile, and populous, while the sterility of the regions 
that lay beyond the reach of the inundations would seldom be 
brought under their cognisance. In descending the river they 
could not fail to notice the contrast presented by the plains on 
its opposite banks, those on the east exhibiting a uniform expanse 
without any visible boundary, while those on the west were 
hemmed in by a great mountain rampart which in running south- 
wards gradually approached the Indus till the roots of the hills 
were laved by its waters. The inhabitants would strike them as 
being more swarthy in their complexion than the men of the 
Panjab, from whom they differed also in their political pre- 
dilections, as they preferred kingly government to republican 
independence, and allowed the Brahman to exercise a decisive 
influence over public life. The descent of the Indus by Alex- 
ander, as Bunbury remarks, may be considered as constituting a 
kind of aera in the geographical knowledge of the Greeks. It 
does not appear, he adds, that it was ever repeated ; and while 
subsequent researches added materially to the knowledge pos- 
sessed by the Greeks of the valley of the Ganges and the more 
easterly provinces of India, their information concerning the 
great river Indus and the regions through which it flows con- 
tinued to be derived almost exclusively from the voyage of 

2 A 



354 APPENDICES 

Alexander and the accounts transmitted by the contemporary 
historians. 

After leaving the great confluence the first tribe Alexander 
reached were the Sogdoi, who appear as the Sodrai in Diodoros, 
who states that Alexander founded among them on the banks of 
the river a city called Alexandreia in which he placed 10,000 
inhabitants. The Sogdoi have been identified with the Sohda 
Rajputs who now occupy the south-east district of Sindh about 
Amarkot, but who in former times held large possessions on the 
banks of the Indus to the northward of Alor. This place, though 
now only a scene of ruins, was formerly, before it was deserted by 
the river, one of the largest and most flourishing cities in all 
Sindh. Saint-Martin takes it to have been the Sogdian capital, 
and thinks that the city which Alexander founded lay in its 
vicinity at Rori, since right opposite to this place there rose in 
the middle of the river the rocky island of Bhakar, which presented 
every natural advantage for the site of a great fortress. Cunning- 
ham, however, would place the capital higher up stream, about 
midway between Alor and Uchh, at a village which appears in old 
maps under the name of Sirwahi, and which may possibly represent 
the Seori of Sindh history and the Sodrai of Diodoros. In this 
neighbourhood lies the most frequented ghat for the crossing of 
the Indus towards the west via Gandava and the Bolan Pass ; 
and as the ghats always determine the roads, it was probably at 
this point of passage Krateros recrossed the Indus when he was 
despatched with the main body of the army and the elephants to 
return home through the countries in which that Pass lay. The 
name Sodrai, some think, represents the Sanskrit S'udra which 
designates the servile or lowest of the four castes. If this be so, 
the Sodrai may be regarded as a remnant of the primitive stock 
which peopled the country before the advent of the Aryans (v. 
Lassen, Ind. Alt. ii. p. 174; Saint-Martin, Etude, pp. 1 50-161; 
Cunningham, Anc. Geog. of India, pp. 249-256). 

Note S. — Sindimana 

Sambus is called Sabus by Curtius, who, without giving the 
name of his capital, informs us that Alexander captured it by 
mining and then marched to rejoin his fleet on the Indus. The 
Greek name of this capital, Sindimana, has led to its identification 
with Sehwan, a site of very high antiquity. The great mound 
which was once its citadel has been formed chiefly of ruined 
buildings accumulated in the course of ages on a scarped rock at 
the end of the Lakki range of hills. Its water supply is at present 



APPENDICES 355 

entirely derived from the Indus, which not only flows under the 
eastern front of the town, but also along the northern by a channel 
from the great Manchur Lake, which perhaps formerly extended 
up even to the city walls. The objection to this identification, 
that Sehwan's position on the Indus conflicts with the statement 
that Alexander had to march from Sindomana to reach that river, 
is removed by the fact that the Indus has changed its course since 
Alexander's time. Wilson derives the Greek Sindomana from 
what he calls a very allowable Sanskrit compound, Sindu-mdn, 
"the possessor of Sindh." Cunningham, however, would refer 
the name to Saindava-vanam or Sainduwan, " the abode of the 
Saindavas." v.hxsAnc. Geog. of India, pp. 263-266, and also 
Saint-Martin's Etude, p. 166, where it is stated that the name of 
Sambus is probably connected with that of the tribe called 
Sammah, whose chiefs have at different epochs played a dis- 
tinguished part in the valley of the Indus. In Hindu mythology 
Samba is the son of Krishna. According to Plutarch, it was 
somewhere in the dominions of Sabbas that Alexander had his 
interview with the ten Indian gymnosophists. Sehwan is the 
Sewistan of the Arabs. According to Burton (writing in 1857), it 
is a hot, filthy, and most unwholesome place, with a rascally 
population (of 6000) which includes many beggars and devotees. 
v. his Sindh, p. 8. The population has since increased to upwards 
of 160,000. 

Note T. — City of the Brachmans — Harmatelia 

This city of the Brachmans Cunningham takes to have been 
Brahmana, or Brahmanabad, which was ninety miles distant by 
water from Marija Dand, the point where he supposes Alexander 
rejoined his fleet after the capture of Sindimana. Brahmanabad 
was situated on the old channel of the Indus forty-seven miles to 
the north-east of Haidarabad or Nirankot, the Patala of ancient 
times. Shortly after the Mohammedan conquest it was sup- 
planted by Mansura, which either occupied its site or lay very 
near it, as, according to Ibn Haukal, the place was called in 
the Sindh language Bamiwan. It was destroyed by an earth- 
quake sometime before the beginning of the eleventh century. 
Its ruins were discovered at Bambhra-ka-thul by Mr. Bellasis, 
whose excavations have shown conclusively the truth of the 
popular tradition which ascribed its downfall to an earthquake. 
Cunningham further thinks that Brahmanabad was the Harmatelia 
ofDiodoros — the place where Ptolemy was wounded by the 
poisoned arrow. Harmatelia (he says) is only a softer pronuncia- 



356 APPENDICES 

tion of Brahma-thala or Brahmana-sthala, just as Hermes, the 
phallic god of the Greeks, is the same as Brahma, the original 
phallic god of the Indians. He thinks that the king whom 
Justin (xii. 10) calls Ambiger was no other than Mousikanos, 
whose dominions extended as far south as the Delta, Ambiger 
being his family name and Mousikanos his dynastic title (Geog. 
pp. 267-269). Saint-Martin, on the other hand, recognises Har- 
matelia in a place variously designated by Arab writers Armael, 
Armdil, Armabil, and Armatel, but of which the position is un- 
known (Etude, pp. 167, 168). In his ancient map of India 
Colonel Yule, who takes the same view as Saint-Martin, identifies 
Harmatelia with Bela. 



Note U. — Patala 

The situation of Patala has been a fertile theme of controversy. 
Arrian seems, no doubt, to give here a clear indication of its 
position in saying that it stood near where the Indus bifurcates; 
but as this point has from time to time shifted, the controversy 
has turned mainly on the question where this point is to be fixed. 
The river bifurcates at present at Mottari, which lies twelve miles 
above Haidarabad, and it has been known to bifurcate a little 
above, and also a little below Thatha, at Bauna also, and at 
Trikul. As a matter of fact, these bifurcations no longer exist, 
except perhaps for a part of the year when the river is in flood 
and recurs to some of its old channels. It is not then surprising 
that various identifications have been proposed for Patala. It 
was placed at Brahmanabad by M'Murdo, Wilson, and Lassen ; 
at Thatha by Rennell, Vincent, Ritter, and the two brothers, 
James and Sir Alexander Burnes ; and at Haidarabad, the 
Nirankot of Arab writers, by Droysen, Benfey, Burton, Saint- 
Martin, Cunningham, and Bunbury. The arguments in favour 
of Haidarabad seem to be quite conclusive. They will be found 
stated at length in Saint -Martin's Etude (pp. 1 68-191), and 
Cunningham's Geography (pp. 279-2S7). One of the most 
cogent is that the dimensions of the Delta, as given by the Greek 
writers, are only justified if the apex of the Delta is taken to have 
been in Alexander's time at or near Haidarabad. If the apex 
had then been as high up as Brahmanabad, or as far down as 
Thatha, the size of the Delta would be as grossly exaggerated in 
the one case as it would be underrated in the other. The same 
conclusion is indicated in the information supplied to the late 
Dr. Wilson of Bombay by the Brahmans of Sehwan, that, accord- 
ing to their local legends, as recorded in their Sanskrit books, 



APPENDICES 357 

Thatha was D'eval, and Haidarabad Neran, and more anciently 
Patolfuri. Patala was thought at one time to have been a tran- 
scription of the Sanskrit Patala, the nether world, into which the 
sun descends at the end of his day's journey, and hence the 
West ; but a better etymology is the Sanskrit potala, " a station 
for ships," from pota, " a vessel." The hame of the Indian Delta 
was Patalene. Haidarabad stands on a long flat-topped hill, and 
Patala, if this was its site, must have occupied a commanding 
position, the advantages of which, alike for strategy and commerce, 
Alexander would perceive at a glance. The main stream of the 
Indus now flows to the west of this position. In the second chapter 
of his Indika Arrian repeats the statement that the Indus enters 
the ocean by two mouths. Aristoboulos estimated the interval 
between them at iooo stadia, but Nearchos at 1800. The in- 
terval from the west to the east arm measures at present 125 
British miles. The sea-front of the Egyptian Delta with which 
the Greeks compared that of the Indus Delta is not less than 
160 miles. The Prince of Patala was called Moeris. 



Note V. — Alexander's March through Gedrosia-Pura 

"No traveller," says Bunbury, referring to the interior of Mek- 
ran, " has as yet traversed its length from one end to the other 
in the direction followed by Alexander. So far as we can judge, 
he appears to have kept along a kind of plain or valley, which 
is found to run nearly parallel to the coast between the interior 
range of the Mushti (or Washati) hills and the lower ragged hills 
that bound the immediate neighbourhood of the sea-coast. This 
line of route has been followed in very recent times by Major 
Ross from Kedj to Bela, and seems to form a natural line of 
communication, keeping throughout about the required distance 
(60 or 70 miles) from the coast [the distance required for main- 
taining communication with the fleet]. . . . This line of march 
so far as is yet known does not appear to traverse any such 
frightful deserts of sand as those described by the historians of 
Alexander. Nor can the site of Pura ... be determined with 
accuracy. It has been generally identified with Bunpoor (Ban- 
pur), the most important place in Western Beloochistan, or with 
Pahra, a village in the same neighbourhood ; but the resemblance 
of name is in this case of little value — poor signifying merely a 
town — while the remoteness of Bunpoor from the sea, and its 
position to the north of the central chain of mountains, which 
Alexander must therefore have traversed in order to reach it, 
present considerable difficulties in the way of this view " {Hist, of 



358 APPENDICES 

Anc. Geog. pp. 519-520). Strabo, in his chapter on Ariana, 
narrates in graphic detail, like Arrian, the sufferings experienced 
by the Macedonians in passing through Gedrosia. The summer, 
he says, was purposely chosen for leaving India, since rains then 
fall in Gedrosia, filling the rivers and wells which fail in winter. 
Alexander kept at the utmost from the sea not more than 500 
stadia in order to secure the coast for his fleet. The army was 
saved by eating dates and the marrow of the palm-tree, but many 
persons were suffocated by eating unripe dates. 

To account for the surprising length of time (60 days) occupied 
on this march, which could not have exceeded 400 English miles, 
we must suppose that the troops were obliged to make frequent 
halts at places where water was procurable. Strabo says that it 
was found necessary on account of the watering-places to make 
marches of two, four, and even sometimes of six hundred stadia 
generally during the night. The land distances, like the sea 
distances of Nearchos, seem to have been grossly exaggerated. 
The march of Semiramis through this desert and that of Cyrus 
seem to be mythical. Alexander's loss in men during the march 
must have been exaggerated by the historians, as he brought the 
bulk of his army with him to Pura. 

Note W. — Indian Sages 

According to Megasthenes the Indian sages were divided into 
two sects, Brahmans and Sarmans. There was besides a third 
sect, described as quarrelsome, fond of wrangling, foolish and 
boastful. The Brahmans, he says, were held in higher esteem 
than the Sarmans because there was more agreement in their 
doctrines. Among the Sarmans the Hylobioi {living in jcaods) 
were held in most honour, and next to them the physicians, who 
are mendicants and also ascetics, like the class above them and 
the class below them, which consisted of sorcerers and fortune-' 
tellers. Megasthenes has related at some length the nature of 
the opinions and practices of all these sects, and Duncker con- 
siders that in all essential points his accounts agree with the 
native authorities, though the view taken may be here and there 
too favourable, in some points too advanced, in others not suf- 
ficiently discriminating. " It is true," he says, " that the Brahmans 
and the initiated of the Enlightened (Buddhists), the S'ramanas, 
are confounded in the order of the sages ; this is shown by the 
statement that any one could enter into this order. ... In the 
description of the life of the ascetics and wandering sages, the 
Brahmans and Bhikshus (mendicants) are again confounded, and 



APPENDICES 359 

if the Greeks tell us that the severe sages of the forest were too 
proud to go to the court at the request of the king, the statement 
holds good according to the evidence of the Epos of the Brahmanic 
saints, and the Sutras of the great teachers among the Buddhists. 
In the examination of the doctrines of the Indian sages, Megas- 
thenes distinguished the Brahmans and the Buddhists, inasmuch 
as he opposes the less-honoured sects to the first, and declares 
the Brahmans to be the most important. From his whole ac- 
count it is clear that at his date, i.e. about the year 300 B.C., 
the Brahmans had distinctly the upper hand. But, according to 
him, the S'ramanas took the next place to the Brahmans among 
the less-honoured sects. Among the Buddhists S'ramana is the 
ordinary name for their clergy" (Hist, of Antiq. pp. 422-424). 

Note X. — The Indian Month 

Curtius apparently means that the Indians mark time, not by 
taking a month to be the period from full moon to next full 
moon, but from new moon to full moon. " The year of the 
Indians (says Duncker) was divided into 12 months of 30 days ; 
the month was divided into two halves of 1 5 days each, and the 
day into 30 hours (muhurta). In order to bring this year of 360 
days into harmony with the natural time, the Brahmans estab- 
lished a quinquennial cycle of i860 lunar days. Three years 
had 12 months of 30 lunar days ; the third and fifth year of the 
cycle had 13 months of the same number of days. The Brah- 
mans do not seem to have perceived that by this arrangement 
the cycle contained almost four days in excess of the astronomical 
time, and indeed they were not very skilful astronomers " (v. his 
History of Antiquity, iv. 2 8 3, 2 84). According to Weber this system 
of calculating time was borrowed from the Babylonians, but Max 
Miiller and learned Hindus hold it to be indigenous. The Indian 
name for the half of a lunar month is paksha. The half from 
new moon to full moon was called at first purva (fore), and after- 
wards s'ukla (bright) ; the other half was called apara (posterior), 
and afterwards krishna (dark). Le Clerc concludes his criticism 
of this passage thus : " Matthaeus Raderus endeavours to explain 
Curtius as if he designed to demonstrate that one month began 
and was understood to commence a little after the change to the 
full moon, and the next, from the time when she began to de- 
crease to the next change. This, indeed, ought to be his mean- 
ing ; but it is strangely expressed, when he tells us that the moon 
begins to show herself horned on the sixteenth day, when 'tis 
evident she does not appear so till about seven days after full 



3 6o APPENDICES 

moon. But before Raderus, Thomas Lydiat had tried to solve 
the matter otherways. However, Scaliger, in his Prolegomena 
to his Canones Isagogicae, p. n, has plainly showed that Lydiat 
neither understood Curtius nor Curtius the author which he 
copied from. The ancient Persians counted 1 5 days to each of 
their months, and 24 of these months to the solar year, before 
the introduction of Mohammedism, as John Chardin evidently 
demonstrates in his Itinerarium Persicum, tomexi. p. 14, quarto" 
(v. Rooke's Arrian, p. 12). 

Note Y. — Battle with P6ros 

Mr. Heitland has the following note on this passage : " Arrian 
(v. 16, sec. 2) tells us that Alexander was making a flanking 
movement (TraprjXawev) with the bulk of his cavalry to attack 
the enemy's left wing. He then goes on (sec. 3) : Against the 
right -wing he sent Koinos at the head of his own regiment of horse 
and that of Demetrios, and ordered him, when the barbarians on 
seeing what a dense mass of cavalry was opposed to them, should be 
riding along to encounter it, to hang close upon tlieir rear, 1 a 
hard passage, it is true, but one which need not be unintelligible 
to any one who bears in mind that Alexander's movement was a 
flanking one, and reads with care the description of his attack in 
c. 16, sec. 4, and c. 17, sec. 1, 2. The situation is this: Alex- 
ander was not himself in position on the right wing, but put 
Coenus there with some of the cavalry, while he himself with the 
main body made the flanking movement. This he did with 
speed, so as to take the Indian horse in flank, before they had 
time to change their front and meet him. They tried to execute 
this movement, but had not time ; and while they were in the 
confusion thus brought about, Coenus fell upon what had been 
their front, but was now their disordered flank. Whether the 
Indian horse from their right wing was brought over to succour 
that on their left or not, does not affect the probable position of 
Coenus. The one difficulty in the way of this explanation is the 
presence, according to Arrian, 15, sec. 7, of the war-chariots in 
front of the Indian horse. But it seems easier to suppose that 
Coenus was able to elude these clumsy adversaries than that 
Alexander expected him to see from the Macedonian left the 
right moment for his own charge, and then wheel round the rear 
of the whole Indian army and execute his orders opportunely. 
Diodorus, xvii. 88, says : The Macedonian cavalry began the action, 
and destroyed nearly all the chariots of the Indians} If this 

1 Quoted by Heitland in the original. a Ibid. 



APPENDICES 361 

refers, as I think it does, to the beginning of the main battle, the 
chief objection is removed" {Alexander in India, pp. 122, 123). 
This explanation is different from that offered by Moberly, as the 
reader will see by referring to my note on Arrian, p. 104, n. 2. 



Note Z. — Indian Serpents 

Diodoros gives the length of the serpents at sixteen cubits, or 
about twenty-four feet. Ailianos also gives this as their length. 
He says (xvii. 2) : " Kleitarchos states that about India a serpent 
sixteen cubits long is produced, but mentions there is another 
kind which differs in appearance from the rest. They are many 
sizes shorter, and display to the eye a variety of colours, as if 
they were painted with pigments. Stripes extend from the head 
to the tail, and are of various colours, some tinted like bronze, 
some like silver, some like gold, while others are crimson. The 
same writer notices that their bite proves very quickly fatal." 
Arrian in his Indika (c. 15) states on the authority of Nearchos that 
there are serpents in India spotted and nimble in their move- 
ments, and that one was caught which measured about sixteen 
cubits, though the Indians alleged that the largest snakes were 
much larger. Nearchos adds that Alexander summoned to his 
camp all the Indians most expert in the healing art, and that 
these succeeded in curing snake-bites, to find a remedy for 
which quite baffled the skill of all the Greek physicians. Strabo 
relates (XV. i. 28), that Abisaros, as the ambassadors he sent to 
Alexander reported, kept two serpents, one of 80 cubits, and 
the other, according to Onesikritos, of 140 cubits in length; 
but Strabo no more believed in this land-serpent than we do in 
the sea-serpent, for he adds that Onesikritos might as well be 
called the master-fabulist as the master-pilot of Alexander. He 
afterwards says that Aristoboulos saw a snake nine cubits and a 
span long, and that he himself while in Egypt had seen another 
of the same length which had been brought from India. Megas- 
thenes wrote that serpents in India grow to such a size that they 
swallow deer and oxen whole. He referred no doubt to the 
python. The python of the Sunderbuns about the mouths of 
the Ganges are known to swallow deer whole. The Elzevir 
editor of Curtius cites statements about the size of Indian 
serpents which leave the extravagant estimate of Oneskritos far 
behind. Thus Maximus Tyrius {Dissert. 38) says: "Taxiles 
showed Alexander various wonders, and among these was a very 
large animal sacred to Bacchus, to which the Indians every day 



362 APPENDICES 

immolated victims. This animal was a serpent {draco), of such 
a size that it equalled five acres of land." 



Note Aa. — Indian Peacocks 

The peacock (mayfira) abounds in India especially in the 
forests at the foot of the Himalayas. Ailianos has several 
notices of it in his work on animals. In Book v. 2 1, after he has 
described its habits, and the pride it takes in displaying its 
gorgeous plumage, he states that it was brought into Greece 
from the barbarians. Being for a long time rare, it was exhibited 
at the beginning of each month to the men and women of 
Athens who were lovers of the beautiful. The charge for 
admission to the spectacle was a considerable source of gain. 
The price of a pair (cock and hen) was a thousand drachmas 
(or about ^40 of our money). Alexander the Macedonian, on 
seeing these birds in India, was so struck with admiration of 
their beauty that he denounced the severest penalties against 
any one who should kill them. In Book xvi. 2 he notes that 
the Indian peacocks are the largest to be anywhere found. In 
xiii. 18 he says: " In the palace where the .greatest of all the 
Indian kings resides, besides many things else which excite 
admiration, eclipsing the splendour alike of Memnonian Sousa 
and all the boasted magnificence of Ekbatana, there are reared 
in the Royal Park tame peacocks and tame pheasants. . . . 
Within that park are shady groves, grassy meads planted with 
trees, and bowers woven by the craft of skilful woodmen. So 
genial withal is the climate, that the trees are ever green, and 
never show signs of age, nor even shed their leaves. Some are 
native to the soil, while others which are brought with great care 
from foreign parts, contribute to enhance the beauty of the 
landscape. Not the olive, however, which is neither indigenous 
to India, nor thrives if brought into it. The park is therefore 
frequented by wild birds as well as by the tame. They seek its 
groves from choice, and there build their nests and rear their 
young. Parrots too are bred there, which, flitting to and fro, 
keep hovering around the king. Notwithstanding they are so 
numerous, no Indian will eat them, for they regard them as 
sacred, while the Brahmans esteem them above all other birds, 
and with good reason, since the parrot alone with a clear utter- 
ance repeats the words of human speech." In xi. 33 he tells a 
story about a peacock of extraordinary size and beauty, which had 
been sent from India as a present to the King of Egypt, 'who 
thereupon dedicated the bird to Jupiter, the guardian god of his 



APPENDICES 363 

capital city. His work has several other passages which refer to 
the peacock ; but as these have no bearing upon India we do 
not cite them. The bird was introduced into Greece long before 
Alexander's time, for Demos, the friend of Perikles, reared pea- 
cocks at Athens, which many people came from Lacedaemon and 
Thessaly to see, as we learn from Athenaios, ix. 12. It is said 
that peacocks were first introduced into Greece from Samos. 



Note B6. — Indian Dogs 

A breed of dogs, large, powerful, and of untamable ferocity, is 
still found in the parts of India here mentioned. 1 Pliny, speak- 
ing of these Indian dogs, ascribes their savage disposition to the 
cause mentioned by Diodoros, the tiger blood that runs in their 
veins. The Indians, he says (viii. 40), assert that these dogs 
are begotten from tigers, for which purpose the bitches when in 
heat are tied up amid the woods. They think that the whelps 
of the first and second brood are too ferocious, but they rear 
those of the third. Ailianos (viii. 1) varies this statement by 
saying that tigers are the offspring of the first and second con- 
nection, but dogs of the third. He then proceeds thus : " Dogs 
that boast a tiger paternity disdain to hunt deer or to enter into an 
encounter with a wild boar, but delight to assail the lion as if 
to show their high pedigree. So the Indians gave Alexander, the 
son of Philip, a proof of the strength and mettle of these dogs in 
the manner following : They let go a deer, but the dog never 
stirred ; then a boar, but he still remained impassive. Then they 
tried a bear, but even this failed to rouse him to action. At last 
they let go a Hon. Then the dog fired with rage, as if he now 
saw a worthy antagonist, did not hesitate for a moment, but flew 
to encounter him, gripped him fast, and tried to strangle him. 
Then the Indian who provided this spectacle for the king, and 
who knew well the dog's capacity of endurance, ordered his tail 
to be cut off. It was accordingly cut off, but the dog took not the 
least heed. The Indian ordered next one of his legs to be cut off. 
This was done, but the dog held to his grip as tenaciously as at 
first, just as if the dismembered limb were not his own, but 
belonged to some one else. The remaining legs were then cut off in 
succession, but even all this did not in the least make him relax the 
vigour of his bite. Last of all, his head was severed from the 
rest of his body, but even then his teeth were seen hanging on by 

1 The R&m&yana (ii. 70. 21) the strength of the tiger and of huge 
mentions among the Kaikeyas, " the body " (Dunck. iv. p. 403). 
dogs bred in the palace, gifted with 



364 APPENDICES 

the part he had first gripped, while the head dangled aloft still 
clinging to the lion, though the original biter no longer existed. 
Alexander was very painfully impressed by what he saw, being lost 
in admiration of the dog, since after giving proof of his mettle he 
perished in no cowardly fashion, but preferring to die rather 
than to let his courage give way. The Indian, seeing the king's 
vexation, gave him four dogs like the one that was killed. He 
was much gratified with the gift, and gave in return a suitable 
equivalent. Joy at the possession of the four dogs soon obliter- 
ated from the mind of Philip's son his sorrow for the other." 
The same author writes nearly to the same effect in the nineteenth 
chapter of his fourth book : " I reckon Indian dogs among wild 
beasts, for they are of surpassing strength and ferocity, and are the 
largest of all dogs. This dog despises other animals, but fights 
with the lion, withstands his attacks, returns his roaring with 
baying, and gives him bite for bite. In such an encounter the 
dog may be worsted, but not till he has often severely galled 
and wounded the lion. The lion is, however, at times worsted 
by the Indian dog and killed in the chase. If a dog once 
clutches a lion, he retains his hold so pertinaciously that if 
one should even cut off his leg with a knife he will not let go, 
however severe may be the pain he suffers, till death supervening 
compels him." Aristotle, in his History of Animals (viii. 28), 
refers to these Indian dogs and the story of their tigrine descent 
Even an earlier mention of them is to be found in Xenophon 
(Kyn. c. 10). We may hence infer that their fame had 
spread to Greece long before Alexander's time. Marco Polo 
mentions a province in China where the people had a large breed 
of dogs so fierce and bold that two of them together would 
attack a lion — an animal with which that province abounded 
(Yule's ed. ii. pp. 108, 109). 

Note Cc. — The Gangaridai 

This people occupied the country about the mouths of the 
Ganges, and may best be described as the inhabitants of Lower 
Bengal. The likeness of their name to that of the Gandaridai, 
the people of Gandhara, whose seats were in the neighbourhood 
of the Indus and the Kophcn or Kabul river, has been the source 
of much confusion and error. Fortunately the notice of them in 
the Indika of Megasthenes has been preserved both by Pliny and 
Solinus, from whom we learn that they were a branch of the great 
race of the Calingae, that their capital was Parthalis (Bardwan?), 
and that their king had an army of 60,000 foot, 1000 horse, and 



APPENDICES 365 

700 elephants, which was always ready for action (Pliny, vi. 18 ; 
Solin. 52). They are mentioned in Ptolemy's Geography as a 
people who dwelt about the mouth of the Ganges and whose capital 
was Gauge. The name of the Gangaridai has nothing corre- 
sponding with it in Sanskrit, nor can it be, as Lassen supposed, 
a designation first invented by the Greeks, for Phegelas used it in 
describing to Alexander the races that occupied the regions 
beyond the Hyphasis. According to Saint-Martin, their name 
is preserved in that of the Gonghris of S. Bihar, with whom 
were connected the Gangayis of North-Western and the Gangrar 
of Eastern Bengal. These designations he takes to be but vari- 
ations of the name which was originally common to them all. 
Wilford, in his article on the chronology of the Hindus (Asiat. 
Res. v. p. 269), says that " the greatest part of Bengal was known 
in Sanskrit under the name of Gancaradesa, or ' country of Gan- 
cara,' from which the Greeks made Gangari-das." But this view 
must be rejected on the same ground as Lassen's. The Gangaridai 
are mentioned by Virgil, Georg. iii. 1. 2 7. As their king, at the 
time when Megasthenes recorded the strength of the army 
which he maintained, was subject to Magadha, we may infer that 
Sandrokottos treated the various potentates who submitted to his 
arms as Alexander treated Taxiles and Poros, permitting them to 
retain as his vassals the power and dignity which they had previ- 
ously enjoyed. 

Note Dd. — The Prasioi 

The Sanskrit word Prachyas (plur. of Prachya, " eastern ") 
denoted the inhabitants of the east country, that is, the country 
which lay to the east of the river Sarasvati, now the Sursooty, 
which flows in a south-western direction from the mountains 
bounding the north-east part of the province of Delhi till it loses 
itself in the sands of the great desert. The Magadhas, it would 
seem, had, before Alexander's advent to India, extended their 
power as far as this river, and hence were called Prachyas by the 
people who lived to the west of it. They are called by Strabo, 
Arrian, and Pliny, Prasioi, Prasii; by Plutarch, Praisioi; by 
Nikolaos Damask., Praiisioi; by Diodoros, Bresioi ; by Curtius, 
Pharrasii; by Justin, Praesides. Ailianos in general writes 
Praisioi like Plutarch, but in one passage where he quotes Megas- 
thenes, he transcribes the name with perfect accuracy in the 
adjective form as Praxiake. General Cunningham does not 
agree in referring the name to Prachya, as all the other modern 
writers do, but takes Prasii to be only the Greek form of Pala- 
siya or Parasiya, a "man of Palasa or Pardsa," a name of 



366 APPENDICES 

Magadha of which Palibothra was the capital. This derivation, 
he says, is supported by the spelling of the name given by Curtius, 
who calls the people Pharrasii, an almost exact transcript of 
Parasiya (see his Ancient Geog. of India, p. 454). His view, 
we think, is hardly destined to supplant the other. Ptolemy 
describes in his Geography a small kingdom with seven cities 
which he locates in the regions of the upper Ganges, and calls 
Prasiake. Kanoge is one of these cities, but Palibothra is not in 
the number, appearing elsewhere as the capital of the Mandalai. 
One is at a loss to understand what considerations could have 
led Ptolemy to push the Prasians so far from their proper seats 
and transfer their capital to another people. 

Note Ee. — The Sibi 

The Sanskrit word S'ivi denotes a country, the inhabitants of 
which, Sivayas, may be the Sibi of Curtius and Diodoros. The 
Sibi inhabited a district between the Hydaspes and the Indus, 
and their capital stood at a distance of about thirty miles from 
the former river, and, as appears from Diodoros, above its con- 
fluence with the Akesines. As they were clad with the skins of 
wild beasts and were armed with clubs, they reminded the Greeks 
of Herakles, who was similarly dressed and armed, and thence 
arose the legend that the Sibi were the descendants of the 
followers of that wandering hero. The truth, however, is that 
the Sibi represent one of the chief aboriginal tribes of the regions 
of the Indus. The Sanskrit poems and the Pauranik traditions 
give this great tribe its real name S'ibi, and represent it as one of 
the important branches of the race which originally peopled all 
the north-western region. According to Moorcroft, the inhabitants 
of the district of Bimber are called Chibs, while Baber in his 
Memoirs had mentioned a people so named as belonging to the 
same parts. Arrian does not expressly mention Alexander's 
expedition against the Sibi in his History, but in his Indika (c. 5) 
he thus refers to them : " So also when the Greeks came among 
the Sibai, an Indian tribe, and observed that they wore skins, 
they declared that the Sibai were descended from those who 
belonged to the expedition of Herakles, and had been left 
behind ; for besides being dressed in skins, the Sibai carry a 
cudgel and brand on their oxen the representation of a club." 
In the ordinary texts of Curtius the Sibi appears as the Sobii, and 
in Justin as the Si/a. They are mentioned in the History of 
Orosius (iii. 19), along with a people called Gessonae, who are 
evidently the people called by Diodoros the Agalassi. 



APPENDICES 367 

Note ¥/. — The Agalassians 

Curtius does not give the name of the people whom Alexander 
proceeded to attack after he had received the submission of the 
Sibi, but it is supplied by Diodoros, who calls them Agalasseis. 
Saint-Martin says (Etude, p. 115) that they adjoined the eastern 
side of the Sibi and occupied the country below the junction of 
the Hydaspes and Akesines. Though Agalassi is the most 
commonly received reading of their name, yet there are many 
variant readings of it, especially in the manuscripts and editions 
of Justin, where we find Agesinae, Hiacensanae, Argesinae, Agini, 
Acensoni, and Gessonae. The last form occurs also in the History 
of Orosius (iii. 1 9), where the people it designates are mentioned 
along with the Sibi. The original name to which these may be 
referred is probably Arjunayana. This name occurs between 
that of the Malava (Malloi) and that of the Yaudheyas on the 
Pillar at Allahabad, whereon Samudragupta, who reigned towards 
the end of the 4th century a.d., inscribed the names of the 
countries and peoples included in his dominions. The Arjuni- 
yana are mentioned also by the Scholiast of Panini, and in the 
geographical list which Wilford compiled from the Varaha 
Sanhita. Arrian in his Indika (c. 4) calls the people situated 
at the junction of the Hydaspes and Akesines the Arispai {Ibid. 
p. 116, and footnotes). 



Note Gg. — Tides in Indian Rivers 

Several Indian rivers present the tidal phenomenon called the 
tore, the most celebrated being those of the Brahmaputra, the 
Ganges, the Nerbada, and the Indus. The bore is sometimes 
many feet in height, and the noise it makes in contending 
against the descending stream frightful. The bore which 
rushes up the Hughli has a speed of about seventeen or eighteen 
miles per hour. A vivid description of the tide or bore of the 
Nerbada has been given by the author of the Periplus. " India," 
he says (c. 45), " has everywhere an abundance of rivers, and her 
seas ebb and flow with tides of extraordinary strength, which 
increase both at new and full moon, and for three days after 
each, but fall off intermediately. About Barygaza (Bharoch) they 
are more violent than elsewhere ; so that all of a sudden you see 
the depths laid bare and portions of the land turned into sea, and 
the sea where ships were sailing but just before turned without 
warning into dry land. The rivers, again, on the access of flood- 
tide rushing into their channels with the whole body of the sea, 



368 APPENDICES 

are driven upwards against their natural course for a great many 
miles with a force that is irresistible." In c. 46, after explaining 
how dangerous these tides are to ships navigating the Nerbada, 
he thus proceeds : " But at new moons, especially when they occur 
in conjunction with a night tide, the flood sets in with such extra- 
ordinary violence that on its beginning to advance, even though 
the sea be calm, its roar is heard by those living near the river's 
mouth, sounding like the tumult of battle heard in the distance, 
and soon after the sea with its hissing waves bursts over the bare 
shoals." 

Note H/fc. — Indian Philosophers 

Arrian has given the account here promised of the Indian 
sages, whom he calls Sophists, in the eleventh chapter of his 
Indika. They formed the highest and most honoured of the 
seven castes into which, he says, Indian society was divided. 
His account is, however, very meagre compared with that which 
Strabo, quoting from the same authority, Megasthenes, has given 
in the fifteenth book of his Geography. We may subjoin a notice 
of the more important points. The philosophers were of two 
kinds, the Brachmanes and the Garmanes (S'ramanas, i.e. Buddhist 
ascetics). The Brachmans were held in greater repute, as they 
agreed more exactly in their opinions. They lived in a grove 
outside the city, lay upon pallets of straw and on skins, abstained 
from animal food and sexual intercourse. After living thirty- 
seven years in this manner each individual retired to his own 
possessions, led a life of greater freedom, and married as many 
wives as he pleased. They discoursed much upon death, which 
they held to be for philosophers a birth into a real and happy 
life. They maintained that nothing which happens to a man is 
bad or good, opinions being merely dreams. On many points 
their notions coincided with those of the Greeks. They said, for 
instance, that the world was created and liable to destruction, 
that it was of a spheroidal figure, and that its Creator governed 
it and was diffused through all its parts. They invented fables 
also, after the manner of Plato, on the immortality of the soul, 
punishments in Hades, and similar topics. Of the S'ramanas the 
most honourable were the Hylobioi. These, as their name im- 
ports, lived in woods, where they subsisted on leaves and wild 
fruits. They were clothed with garments made of the bark of 
trees, and abstained from commerce with women and from wine. 
The kings held communication with them by messengers, and 
through them worshipped the divinity. Next in honour to the 
Hylobioi were the physicians, who cured diseases by diet rather 



APPENDICES 369 

than by medicinal remedies, which were chiefly unguents and 
cataplasms. See XV. i. 58-60. 

Arrian, in the opening chapters of the seventh book of his 
Anabasis, gives an account of Alexander's dealings with the 
Gymnosophists of Taxila which agrees in substance with that 
given by Strabo (XV. i. 61-65) based on the authority both of 
Aristoboulos and Onesikritos, the latter of whom was sent by 
Alexander to converse with the gymnosophists. For the details 
see Biog. Appendix, s.v. Kalanos. 

Note I/, — Suttee (Diod. Note 12). 

But Diodoros, in a subsequent part of his history (xix. 33), 
relates that the law had been enacted because of the great pre- 
valence of the practice of wives poisoning their husbands. In 
c 34 he states that the two widows of Keteus, an Indian general 
who fell in the great battle in Gabiene between Eumenes and 
Antigonos, contended for the honour of being burned on the 
funeral pile of their husband, and that the younger was selected 
for the distinction, because the elder, being at the time with child, 
was precluded by law from immolating herself. Strabo says (XV. 
i. 62) that Aristoboulos and other writers make mention of Indian 
wives burning themselves voluntarily with their husbands. 

From this it would appear that this cruel practice, known as 
Suttee (Sansk. sati, " a devoted wife "), which was suppressed by 
the humanity of the Indian Government in the days of Lord 
Bentinck, was one of high antiquity, but Mr. R. C. Dutt, in his 
able and learned work on Civilisation in Ancient India, assigns a 
much later date to its origin. He says (vol. iii. 199) that the 
barbarous rite was introduced centuries after Manu, whose Insti- 
tutes, he thinks, were compiled within a century or two before or 
after the Christian aera. In a subsequent passage (p. 332) he 
states that Suttee was originally a Scythian custom, and was prob- 
ably introduced into India by the Scythian invaders who poured 
into India in the Buddhist age (from 242 B.C. to 500 a.d.), and 
formed ruling Hindu races later on. There can be no doubt that 
Suttee was a Scythian practice. Their kings were entombed with 
sacrifices both of beasts and of human beings of both sexes, as 
we see from what Herodotos relates in the seventy-first chapter of 
his fourth book. Still the statement of Diodoros shows that 
several centuries before the Skythian invasions of India took 
place Suttee was an established institution among a race of the 
purest Aryan descent such as were the Kathaians — a people 
whose name shows they were Kshatriyas. The Hindus them- 

2 B 



370 APPENDICES 

selves believe that the custom was of the very highest antiquity, 
and that a text of the Rig-veda sanctioned its observance. It 
has been discovered, however, that the text in question has been 
falsified and mistranslated, and that in point of fact no mention 
is found of the custom in Sanskrit literature till the Pauranik 
period, the beginning of which Mr. Dutt assigns to the sixth cen- 
tury of our aera. 



Note Kk. — Ancient Indian Coins 

The following remarks on the ancient coinage of India are 
extracted from two papers contributed by Mr. W. Theobald to 
the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, Nos. III. and IV. of 
1890, under the title Notes on some of the Symbols found on the 
Punch-marked Coins of Hindustan: — "The punch-marked coins,'' 
he says, "though presenting neither kings' names, dates, nor inscrip- 
tions of any sort, are nevertheless very interesting not only from 
their being the earliest money coined in India, and of a purely 
indigenous character, but from their being stamped with a number 
of symbols, some of which we can with the utmost confidence 
declare to have originated in distant lands and in the remotest 
antiquity. The punch used to produce these coins differed from 
the ordinary dies which subsequently came into use in that they 




Fig. 16. — Antimachos. 



covered only one of the many symbols usually seen on their 
pieces. Some of these coins were round and others of a rect- 
angular form. The great bulk of these coins is silver (but some 
copper, and others gold). Some coins are formed of a copper 
blank thickly covered with silver before receiving the impression 
of the punches, and this contemporary sophistication of the cur- 
rency is found to occur subsequently in various Indian coinages, 
in the Graeco-Bactrian of the Panjab, the Hindu kings of Cabul, 



APPENDICES 371 

etc." Mr. Theobald thinks we may regard these pieces as a por- 
tion of those very coins (or identical in all respects) which the 
Brahman Chanakya, the adviser of Chandragupta, with the view 
of raising resources, converted, by recoining each Kahapana into 
eight, and amassed eighty kotis of Kahapanas (or K&rsh&panas). 
Mr. Theobald holds that the square coins, both silver and copper, 




Fig. 17.— Agathokles. 

struck by the Greeks for their Indian possessions belong to no 
Greek national type whatever, but are obviously a novelty adopted 
in imitation of an indigenous currency already firmly established 
in the country. He adduces by way of proof the testimony of 
Curtius, where he states that Taxiles offered Alexander eighty 
talents of coined silver {signati argenti). What other, he asks, 
except these punch-marked coins could these pieces of coined 
silver have been? The name, he then adds, by which these 
coins are spoken of in the Buddhist Sutras about 200 B.C. was 



ijiBiPfr 


j yc""'-""'/ 


£>i' -■ 




: 




*t - 




yffj 


*3fi38*w}\,\ 


^y 















- S3 




• *N**i 












} 








■jvI 


&f&& 





Fig. 18. — Heliokles. 

''purana " = old, whence General Cunningham argues that the word 
old, as applied to the indigenous Karsha, was used to distinguish 
it from the new and more recent issues of the Greeks. Mr. 
Vincent A. Smith writes to the same effect. He considers the 
artistic coins to be of Greek origin, but holds that the idea of 
coining money, and the simple mechanical processes for rude 



372 APPENDICES 

coins, were not borrowed from the Greeks. It is, he thinks, 
impossible to prove that any given piece is older than Alexander, 
though some primitive coins may be older. The oldest Indian 
coins to which a date can be assigned are, in his opinion, those 
issued by Sophytes, the contemporary of Alexander. The 
general adoption of Greek, or Graeko-Roman types of coinage, 
he assigns to the first century as a result of the Indo-Skythian 

■St- -j£^ - ' ' 






Fig. 19. — Apollodotos. 

invasions. Roman coins, it is well known, are found in all parts 
of India. In Indian writings the Roman denarius appears in the 
form dinara, and the Greek drachme (which was about equivalent 
in value to the denarius) in the form dramma. The subject of 
the Indo-Greek coinage is discussed in A. v. Sallet's Die Nach- 
folger Alexanders. 

Note L/. — An As'oka Inscription 

Transliteration. — yu Ichha 

shavabhu . . . shayama shamachaliyam madava ti. Iyam 

vu mu . 
Devanam Piyesha ye dhammavijaye she cha puna ladhe Dev- 

anarh Pi . . . cha 
shaveshu cha ateshu a shashu pi yojanashateshu ata Atiyoge 

nama Yona laja palarh cha tena. 
Amtiyogena chatali 4 lajane Tulamaye nama Ariitekine nama 

Maka na ma Alikyashudale nama, nicham Choda-Pamdiya 

avam Tambaparhniya hevameva hevameva 
Hidalaja. Vis'a-Vaji-Yona-Kambijeshu Nabhake Nabhapamtishu 

Boja-Pitinikyeshu 
Adha-Puladeshu shavata Devanam Piyasha dharhmamanushathi 

anuvatamti. 

Translation. — The following is considered of the highest im- 
portance by the God-beloved, namely Conquest by law; this 
Conquest, however, is made by the God-beloved as well here 



APPENDICES 



373 




374 APPENDICES 

(in his own kingdom) as among all his neighbours, even as far 
as six hundred yojanas (leagues), where the King of the Yonas 
(Greeks), Antiyoka by name, dwells ; and beyond this Antiyoka 
where the four kings, Turamaya by name, Amtikina by name, 
Maka by name, Alikasudara by name (dwell farther away) in the 
south, where the Chodas and Paindas (Pandyas) (dwell), as far 
as Tambapanini ( Ceylon) (where) the Hida king (dwells). Among 
the Vis'as, the Vajris (Vrijis), the Yonas (Greeks), the Kamboyas 
(Kabulis), in Nabhaka of the Nabhitis, among the Bhojas, the 
Pitinikas, the Andhras and the Puladas (Pulindas), the teaching 
of the law of the God-beloved is universally followed. 

This remarkable edict is found inscribed at four different 
places : Shahbazgarhi in Yusufzai, Mansahra in Hazara of the 
Panjab, Kalsi above Dehra Dun, and Girnar in Kathiawar. In 
the first two places the character employed is the Karoshtri, 
that is, the Baktrian Pali, and in the other two the Indian Pali. 
It is the Kalsi inscription which is copied in the illustration. By 
the God-beloved (Piyesha or Piyadasi) is meant As 'oka himself 
The Grecian kings named in the inscription have already been 
identified (p. 52), with the exception of Alikyashudale, who is 
taken to be Alexander, King of Epeiros. v. Senart's Les Inscrip- 
tions de Piyadasi and Epigraphia Indica,- vol. ii. 



BIOGRAPHICAL APPENDIX 

Abisares is called by Arrian the King of the Indian Mountaineers, 
and may perhaps be not improperly described as the King of 
Kas'mir. His name is derived from that of his kingdom, Abhisara, 
which designated the mountainous country to the east of the 
Indus now known as Hazara, a name in which some traces of 
the old seem to survive. After the fall of Mazaga, he sent troops 
across the Indus to aid the inhabitants in resisting Alexander. 
He sent embassies, however, to the conqueror both before and 
after the defeat of Poros, whom he inclined to succour. Alex- 
ander allowed him to retain his kingdom, and when he died 
appointed his son to succeed him, as we learn from Curtius X. i. 

Aggrammes. — See Xandrames. 

Alketas was the brother of Perdikkas, who, after Alexander's 
death, assumed the regency of the empire. He was the son of 
Orontes, a Macedonian of the province of Orestis. He is first 
mentioned by Arrian as commander of one of the brigades which 
Alexander, towards the close of his Baktrian campaigns, despatched 
under Krateros into the country of the Paratakenians, who still 
held out against him. He is next mentioned in connection with the 
siege of Mazaga and Ora. When Alexander crossed the Hydaspes 
to encounter Poros, Alketas remained behind in the camp with 
Krateros. After Alexander's death Alketas supported the cause 
of his brother, and by his orders put to death Kynan6, the half- 
sister of Alexander — a cruel act which his own troops resented. 
When Perdikkas was murdered in Egypt (321 B.C.) Alketas was 
at the time with Eumenes engaged against Krateros. He after- 
wards, however, joined his forces to those of Attalos ; but being 
defeated in Pisidia, he slew himself to avoid falling into the hands 
of Antigonos. 

Ambiger, supposed to be a corrupt reading for Ambi-regis. 
— See under Sambus. 

Amyntas, the son of Nikolaos, was appointed satrap of 



376 APPENDICES 

Baktria in succession to Artabazos, who resigned the office on the 
ground of his advanced age. When Alexander left Baktria to 
invade India he left Amyntas in the province with a force of 
10,000 foot and 3500 horse. 

Androkottos. — See Sandrokottos. 

Androsthenes, a native of Thasos, sailed with Nearchos, and 
was afterwards sent by Alexander to explore the Persian Gulf. 
He wrote an account of this voyage, and a work describing a 
coasting voyage to India. 

Antigenes, an officer who served both under Philip and 
Alexander. In 340 b.c. he lost an eye at the siege of Perinthos. 
He was present in the battle with Poros, and the divisions of the 
phalanx which he led on this occasion formed afterwards part of 
the large body of troops which Krateros led through the country 
of the Arachotians and Zarangians into Karmania. After the 
army reached Sousa he was for some time deprived of his com- 
mand for having advanced some fraudulent claim. After Alex- 
ander's death he obtained the satrapy of Sousiana. In the wars 
between the generals he sided with Eumenes, whom he aided 
with the Argyraspids under his command. When Eumenes was 
defeated in 316 B.C. Antigenes fell into the hands of his enemy, 
Antigonos, who ordered him to be burned to death. 

Antigonos, called the One - eyed, was a Macedonian of 
Elimiotis, and one of the generals of Alexander, but did not 
accompany him into India, as he had been appointed satrap of 
Phrygia. In the partition of the empire he received Phrygia, 
Lykia, and Pamphylia, and eventually made himself master of 
the whole of Asia Minor. He was slain in the battle of Ipsos 
301 B.C. He was the father of Demetrios Poliorketes, who 
founded a line of Macedonian kings. 

Antigonos Gonatas was one of the kings to whom As'oka 





Fig. 2i. — Antigonos Gonatas. 



sent Buddhist missionaries. He was the son of Demetrios 
Poliorketes, whom he succeeded as king of Macedonia in the 



APPENDICES 



377 



year 283 B.C. His reign extended to forty-four years. His 
brother Antigonos Doson reigned afterwards over Macedonia for 




Fig. 22. — Antigonos Doson. 

nine years, from 229 to 220 B.C., in succession to Demetrios II. 
the son of Gonatas. 

Antiochos II., surnamed Theos, succeeded to the throne of 
Syria on the death of his father Antiochos I., who was the son of 
the famous Seleukos Nikator. During many years of his reign 
he was engaged in intermittent hostilities with Ptolemy Phila- 
delphos the king of Egypt, who wrested from him Phoenicia and 
Hollow Syria. His power was further weakened by the revolt of 




Fig. 23. — Antiochos II. 

Arsakes, who established the Parthian empire (in 250 b.g.)-, and 
by the subsequent revolt of Theodotos, who made Baktria an 
independent kingdom. He was one of the kings of the West to 
whom Buddhist missionaries were sent by the Indian king 
As'oka. His wife Laodike caused him to be murdered in 
B.C. 246. 

Antipater. — This officer, who had great experience in war 
and civil affairs under Philip, was left regent of Macedonia when 
Alexander set out on his Asiatic expedition. Olympias, jealous 
of his power, was constantly engaged in intrigues against him, 



37 8 APPENDICES 

while she annoyed her son by filling her letters to him with com- 
plaints against his deputy. After the murder of Perdikkas in 
Egypt, Antipater succeeded him in the regency of the empire, 
and this he held till his death in 320 b.c. 

Aphrikes, called Eryx by Curtius, was the same whom Arrian 
designates the brother of AssaMnos, the king of Mazaga. He 
was put to death by his own followers. 

Apollonios, a native of Tyana in Kappadokia, was born in 
the year 4 b.c. He adopted the Pythagorean system of philo- 
sophy, and submitted himself to its ascetic discipline. He was 
credited with the possession of supernatural powers, and parallels 
have been drawn between his character and supposed miracles 
and those of Christ. He travelled in the East, and is said to 
have visited Taxila, the capital of Phraortes, an Indian prince, 
where he met Iarchas, the chief of the Brahmans, and disputed 
with Indian gymnosophists. About a hundred years after his 
death an account of his life was written by Philostratos, which, 
notwithstanding that much of it is untrustworthy, is of great value 
for the investigation of Indian antiquity. 

Apollophanes was appointed satrap of the Oritians, but was 
deposed not long afterwards by Alexander for misgovernment. 

Ariobarzanes was the satrap of Persis. After the defeat of 
the Persians near Arbela, he fled to secure the pass called the 
Persian Gates, which lay on the route to Persepolis. Alexander 
having gained the heights above his camp, the Persians took to 
flight, and Ariobarzanes made his escape with a few horsemen. 

Aristoboulos was a native of Kassandreia, a town on the 
isthmus which connects the peninsula of Pallene with the main- 
land. He accompanied Alexander in his Asiatic expedition, and 
wrote a history of his wars, which was one of the principal sources 
used by Arrian in the composition of his Anabasis, and by Plutarch 
in his Life of Alexander. Arrian, in the preface to his great work, 
thus characterises the two authors whom he mainly followed : 
" Different authors have differed in their accounts of Alexander's 
life. . . . But I consider the narratives of Ptolemy and Aristo- 
boulos to be more worthy of credit than the rest ; Aristoboulos, 
because he attended Alexander in his expedition ; and Ptolemy, 
not only for that reason, but also because he was afterwards him- 
self a king, and for one in his position to have falsified facts 
would have been more disgraceful than for a man of humbler 
rank. Both of them, moreover, compiled their histories after 
Alexander was dead, when they were neither compelled, nor 
tempted by hope of reward, to misrepresent facts, and on this 
account they are the more worthy of credit." Lucian, neverthe- 



APPENDICES 379 

less, accuses Aristoboulos of having invented marvellous stories 
of Alexander's prowess in battle ; but it is thought that in the 
anecdote which he relates in this connection he has used by mis- 
take the name of Aristoboulos for that of Onesikritos. See 
Lucian's How History should be Written, c. 1 2. It is said that 
Aristoboulos began the composition of his history when he was 
84 years old, and that he lived to be 90. 

Aristonous was, like Alexander, a native of Pella, and was 
one of the seven or eight chief officers who formed his body- 
guard, and had at all times access to his presence. According 
to Curtius he was one of the men who helped to save Alexander's 
life when he was assailed and wounded by the Mallians in their 
chief stronghold. On the death of Alexander he advocated the 
claims of Perdikkas to the supremacy. After the fall of Olympias, 
to whose cause he had attached himself, he was put to death by 
order of her antagonist, Kassander, in the year 316 b.c. 

Aristotle was born in 384 b.c. at Stageira, a seaport town 
near the isthmus which connects the peninsula terminating in 
Mount Athos with the mainland of Macedonia. When he was 
studying philosophy in Athens under Plato he received a letter 
from King Philip announcing the birth of his son Alexander. This 
letter has been preserved by Aulus Gellius in his Nodes Atticae 
(ix. 3) : — " Philip to Aristotle greeting : know that a son has been 
bom to me. I thank the gods, not so much for his birth, as 
that it has been his fortune to be born when you are in the prime 
of life ; for I hope that being instructed and educated by you, he 
will prove himself worthy both of us and of the succession to so 
great a state." Thirteen years afterwards Philip summoned the 
great philosopher to his court, and entrusted him with the educa- 
tion of his son, which was conducted in quiet seclusion at Stageira, 
at a distance from Pella, the centre of political activity and court 
intrigue. Here Alexander remained for four years, at the end of 
which he was called to govern the kingdom during his father's 
temporary absence on an expedition against Byzantium. Along 
with him were educated other noble youths, Kassander, son of 
Antipater; Marsyas of Pella; Kallisthenes, who was related to 
Aristotle; Theophrastos, and probably also Nearchos, Ptolemy, 
and Harpalos. The course of instruction embraced poetry, 
eloquence, and philosophy, and, no doubt, also politics, though 
one of the leading aims of Alexander in after life, that of uniting 
all the nations under his sway into one kingdom without due 
regard to their individual peculiarities, was opposed to the views 
of his master. Alexander regarded Aristotle with sentiments 
of the deepest respect and affection, and rewarded him for his 



380 APPENDICES 

instructions with a munificence which has never been surpassed. 
Pliny mentions how liberally he supported the philosopher in 
his researches into natural science, especially in the department 
of zoology, ordering his vicegerents everywhere to supply him 
with specimens of all kinds of animals. Unhappily the cordiality 
between them was interrupted when Kallisthenes began to express 
disapproval of the change in Alexander's conduct and policy. 
Aristotle died at the age of 63, about a year after the death of 
his pupil. 

Arsakes was the ruler of a small mountain kingdom which 
adjoined that of his brother Abisares, King of Kas'mir. 

Artabazos was a Persian satrap, who for some years main- 
tained a war of rebellion against Artaxerxes III. In the reign of 
Darius he distinguished himself by his fidelity to his sovereign. 
He took part in the battle of Gaugamela, and afterwards accom- 
panied Darius in his flight. Alexander, who approved of his 
fidelity to his master, rewarded him with the satrapy of Baktria. 
Ptolemy married one of his daughters and Eumenes another. 
He resigned his satrapy on account of his great age, and was 
succeeded by Kleitos. 

Artemidoros was a Greek geographer who lived about 100 
B.C. His work on geography was abridged by Markianos. Some 
fragments of the work, which was of high value, and of the 
abridgment, have been preserved by Strabo and other writers. 

Asklepios (Aesculapius) was the god of the medical art. His 
descendants were called Asklepiadai, and had their principal 
seats at Kos and Knidos. The Asklepiads were not only a 
fraternity of physicians, but an order of priests, who combined 
religion with the practice of their art. 

As'6ka was the son of Vindusara and grandson of Chandra- 
gupta, called Sandrokottos by the Greeks. He ascended the 
throne of Magadha in 270 b.c. Having been converted to 
Buddhism, he established that faith as the state religion of his vast 
empire, which comprised the greater part of India. He was 
zealous in promoting the spread of his creed, and even sent 
missionaries to expound its doctrines to the sovereigns of the 
West, Antiochos of Syria, Ptolemy of Egypt, Antigonos of Mace- 
donia, Magas of Kyrene and Alexander of Epiros. His religious 
zeal, piety, and benevolence inspire all the many edicts he pro- 
mulgated, which are still to be read cut on rocks, caves, and 
pillars. The date of his death is uncertain, but is referred to the 
year 222 b.c. His inscriptions are invaluable for the aid they 
contribute towards the solution of some of the most important 
and difficult problems with which the investigators of Indian 



APPENDICES 381 

antiquity have to deal. They throw light on many points of 
historical, chronological, and linguistic inquiry, as well as on 
others having reference to the social, political, and religious 
condition of the Indian people in the days when Buddhism first 
rose to the ascendant. An account of these inscriptions will be 
found in Lassen's Alt. Ind. ii. pp. 215-223. 

Assagetes was, Lassen thinks, an Assakenian chief. His 
name probably transliterates As'vajit; according to the same 
authority the word would mean " conquered by the horse." 

Assakanos, the King of Mazaga, the capital of the Assa- 
kenians. According to Arrian he was slain during the siege of 
that stronghold by Alexander, but Curtius leads us to believe that 
he had died before the conqueror's advent. 

Astes, the chief of Peukelaotis, submitted to Alexander when 
he entered India, but afterwards revolted and was slain by the 
troops under Hephaistion. 

Athenaios was the author of the Deipnosophists, i.e. the 
Banquet of the Learned, or, perhaps, the Contrivers of Feasts. 
This work is described by a writer in Smith's Classical Dictionary 
as a vast collection of anecdotes, extracts from the writings of 
poets, historians, dramatists, philosophers, orators, and physicians, 
of facts in natural history, criticisms and discussions on almost 
every conceivable subject, especially on gastronomy. It contains 
numerous references to Alexander and the events of his time. 
Athenaios was a native of Naukratis, in Lower Egypt. He wrote 
in the earlier part of the third century of our aera. 

Athenod6ros was the leader of the sedition of the Greek 
colonists settled in Baktria who were anxious to return to their 
native country. 

Attalos. — Three persons of this name are mentioned in this 
work: 

1. Attalos, one of the generals of King Philip, and uncle of 
Kleopatra, whom that king married in 337 B.C. At the nuptial 
festivities, Attalos requested the guests to pray to the gods that a 
legitimate heir to the throne might be the fruit of the marriage. 
This naturally gave great offence to Alexander and his mother, 
Olympias, who both in consequence withdrew from the kingdom. 
Attalos was in Asia at the time of Philip's death, and was in- 
stigated by Demosthenes to rebel against his successor. Alexander 
then caused him to be assassinated. It will be seen from what 
has been stated that the royal house of Macedonia practised 
polygamy. 

2. Attalos, who commanded the Agrianians in the battles of 
Issos and Gaugamela. 



382 APPENDICES 

3. Attalos, the son of Andromenes of Stymphalia, a district in 
Macedonia, or on its borders, was one of Alexander's chief 
officers. He was accused, along with his brothers, of complicity 
with Philotas in his alleged conspiracy, but was honourably 
acquitted. In 328 B.C. he was left with other officers to hold 
Baktria in subjection, while Alexander himself marched against 
the Sogdians. In the campaign of 327 b.c. against the Assa- 
kenians and other tribes north of the Kabul River, Attalos served 
in the division of the army which Alexander commanded in person. 
He took part in the great battle in which the Assakenians were 
defeated, and in the siege of Ora. He fought also in the battle 
against Poros. His division formed part of the troops which 
Krateros led by the route of the Bolan Pass into Karmania. 
After Alexander's death he supported Perdikkas, whose sister he 
had married. After the murder of Perdikkas he joined Alketas, 
his brother-in-law, but their united forces were defeated by 
Antigonos in Pisidia. Alketas was seized and imprisoned. His 
ultimate fate is unknown. 

Bait6n, one of the scientific men in Alexander's army, 
employed, like DiognStos, in measuring the distances traversed 
in its marches, whence he was called Alexander's bematistes. He 
left a professional work, which, as we learn from Athenaios (x. p. 
442) was entitled Stages of Alexander's Marches. 

Balakros. — There were three officers of this name in Alex- 
ander's army. 1. The son of Nikanor, who was a Somatophylax, 
and was appointed satrap of Kilikia after the battle of Issos. He 
was slain in Pisidia in Alexander's lifetime. 2. The son of 
Amyntas was commander of the allies in succession to Antigonos, 
and commander, along with Peukestas, of the army which Alex- 
ander left in Egypt. 3. A commander of the javelin men who 
took part in the great battle with the Aspasians. 

Barsine, called also Stateira, was the elder daughter of Darius, 
and became the wife of Alexander at Sousa, 324 B.C. Within a 
year of Alexander's death she was treacherously murdered by 
Roxana. 

Barzaentes, satrap of the Arachosians and Drangians, was 
one of the murderers of Darius. To escape Alexander he fled to 
India, but was given up by the inhabitants to Alexander, who 
ordered his death. 

Bessos, the satrap of Baktria, commanded the left wing of 
the Persian army at Arbela, and was thus directly opposed to 
Alexander himself in that battle. After the battle he conspired 
against his unfortunate master, who was also his kinsman, and 



APPENDICES 383 

caused him to be assassinated lest he should fall into Alexander's 
hands — a result which would have frustrated his design of 
mounting the vacant throne. He fled across the Oxus, but was 
betrayed and delivered up to Alexander, who caused him to be 
tried before a council at Zariaspa, and after suffering mutilation 
to be executed. 

Chandragupta. — See Sandrokottos. 

Chares, or Cares, a native of Mytilene in Lesbos, was an officer 
with Alexander who discharged the functions of court usher. He 
wrote a book (now lost) of anecdotes about Alexander's wars and 
private life, which is frequently quoted by Athenaios. Some 
fragments have also been preserved by Plutarch, Pliny, and 
Aulus Gellius. 

Cleophis, Queen of Mazaga, surrendered that city to Alex- 
ander, by whom she was kindly treated, and to whom she is said 
to have borne a son who became an Indian king. In Racine's 
tragedy, Alexandre le Grand, Cleophis, who figures as one of the 
dramatis personae, is made the sister of Taxiles. 

Deimachos or Daimachos was ambassador at the court of 
Allitrochades, the son and successor of Sandrokottos, and wrote 
a work on India in two books. He is pilloried by Strabo as the 
most mendacious of all writers about India. 

Demetrios was one of the officers who formed Alexander's 
bodyguard. He was accused by Philotas as being one of his 
accomplices in the conspiracy against the king's life, and was in 
consequence deprived of his post, to which Ptolemy was then 
preferred. 

Demetrios, son of Pythonax, was one of the select band of 
cavalry called the Companions. He took part in the Indian 
campaigns. 

Demetrios Poliorketes, the son of Antigonos, became 
king of Macedonia in 294 B.C. 




Fig. 24. — Demetrios Poliorketes. 



384 APPENDICES 

Dioskorides, the famous writer on Materia Medica, was a 
native of Kilikia, and flourished, so far as can be conjectured, 
about the beginning of the second century of our aera. 

Embisaros. — See Abisares. 

Epiktetos, the famous philosopher, was a native of Hiero- 
polis in Phrygia, and a freedman of Epaphroditus, the favourite 
of Nero. Arrian, who was one of his disciples, composed a short 
manual of his philosophy as taken down from his lectures, and 
known as the Enchiridion. 

Eratosthenes was appointed by Ptolemy Euergetes (grand- 
son of Alexander's Ptolemy) president of the Alexandrian Library, 
an office which he held for upwards of forty years. He may be 
considered as the founder of scientific geography, and in some 
measure also of systematic chronology. He was born at Kyrene 
in 276 b.c, and educated in Athens, where he devoted himself 
to the study of learning and philosophy. He died in Alexandria 
in the year 196 B.C. His works, which were numerous and 
treated of a great variety of subjects, scientific and literary, have 
perished, with the exception of some fragments cited by other 
writers. 

Erigyios was by birth a Mitylenaian, and was an officer in 
Alexander's army. He commanded the cavalry of the allies both 
in the battle of Arbela and when Alexander set out from Ekbatana 
in pursuit of Darius. He was slain fighting with Baktrian 
fugitives. 

Eudemos. — When Alexander heard in Karmania that Philip, 
who had been left in India as satrap, had been treacherously 
murdered by the mercenaries, he sent orders to Taxiles and 
Eudemos to administer affairs till a new satrap should be ap- 
pointed. Sometime after Alexander's death Eudemos decoyed 
Poros into his power and cut him off. He then left India either 
because Eumenes requiring his services in contending against 
Antigonos recalled him, or because he was unable to hold out 
against the native revolt headed by Sandrokottos. The troops 
and elephants which he took with him from India were of great 
service to Eumenes. After the fall of his chief Eudemos was 
put to death by Antigonos. 

Eumenes was a native of Kardia, a Greek colony situated in 
the Thracian Chersonese. He was private secretary to King 
Philip, and then to Alexander, whom he attended throughout his 
Asiatic expedition. It was one of his duties as royal secretary 
to keep a diary {EpMmc rides) in which the transactions of each 
day had to be recorded, and this work is quoted both by Arrian 



APPENDICES 385 

and Plutarch. He showed himself a man of consummate ability 
in the arts both of war and of politics. His alien origin, how- 
ever, exposed him to the jealousy of the Macedonian officers. 
Hephaistion in particular, Alexander's chief favourite, sought by 
every means to compass his overthrow. Eumenes, however, by his 
prudence and tact frustrated all attempts made to undermine his 
influence with the king who had a just appreciation of his merits. 
Though his labours were chiefly those of the closet, he was some- 
times employed in the field, more especially on occasions of 
unusual emergency. When Alexander, on returning to Sousa, 
celebrated his own nuptials and those of his companions with 
oriental brides, he gave, as Arrian tells us (vi. 4), to Ptolemy, and 
Eumenes, the royal secretary, the daughters of Artabazos ; to the 
former Artikama, and to the latter Artonis. After the king's 
death Eumenes obtained Kappadokia, Paphlagonia, and Pontos, 
and after some delay was established in the government of these 
provinces. After the death of Perdikkas, to whom he owed this 
service, he was requested by Olympias and Polysperchon to 
undertake the supreme command throughout Asia on behalf of 
the king. He had in consequence to contend against the faction 
opposed to the royal family which was headed by Antigonos, and 
supported by Ptolemy, Peithon, Seleukos, and Nearchos. After 
coping successfully for a considerable time against this powerful 
confederacy, he was delivered up by his own troops to Antigonos, 
who, notwithstanding the remonstrances of Nearchos, ordered 
him to be put to death, 316 B.C. 

Gorgias, a commander of a division of the phalanx. He 
marched with Hephaistion and Perdikkas by the Khaiber Pass to 
the Indus, and fought in the battle against Poros. 

Harpalos was of princely birth, and nephew of King Philip. 
He was educated along with Alexander, whom he accompanied 
into Asia in the capacity of superintendent of his treasury. 
Having betrayed his trust he fled to Greece, but was recalled by 
Alexander, who overlooked his offence and reinstated him in his 
office. Alexander, on setting out from Ekbatana to pursue 
Darius, left Harpalos in that stronghold in charge of the vast 
treasures which had been transported thither from Sousa and 
other plundered capitals. Harpalos removed thence to Babylon, 
where he ruled as satrap while the king was in India. Here his 
licentiousness and extravagance exceeded all bounds. On hear- 
ing that Alexander had returned to Sousa, and was punishing 
with the utmost severity all officers who had misgoverned in his 

2 C 



386 APPENDICES 

absence, he set out for the coast, taking with him the vast sum 
of 5000 talents and a large escort of troops. He crossed over 
to Attica, but the Athenians would not permit him to land until 
he had disbanded his followers. When he was admitted into 
the city he employed his wealth in bribing the orators to gain 
over the people to his cause in opposition to Alexander. He 
was, however, obliged to take to flight, and having landed with 
his treasures in the island of Crete, was there assassinated 

Hekataios, one of the earliest and most distinguished 
Greek historians and geographers, was a native of Miletos, 
and lived about 520 b.c. He is the first Greek writer who dis- 
tinctly mentions India. Some fragments of his works have been 
preserved. 

Hephaisti£n was a native of Pella, and in his childhood 
appears to have been brought up with Alexander, who was of 
the same age as he, and not only continued to be his friend 
through life, but lavished upon him when removed by death the 
most extravagant honours. In the Egyptian expedition he com- 
manded the fleet, and he distinguished himself in the battle of 
ArbSla, where he was wounded in the arm. When Philotas was 
put to death the command of the horse guards was divided be- 
tween him and Kleitos. He conducted important operations in 
Sogdiana and Baktria, and throughout all the subsequent cam- 
paigns until the army returned to Sousa. He was not possessed 
of any striking share of ability, and would certainly not have 
risen to eminence through his own unaided exertions. At Sousa 
Alexander gave him to wife Drypatis, one of the daughters of 
Darius, and the sister of Stateira, whom he himself married. 
Hephaistion was soon afterwards cut off by fever at Ekbatana. 

Herakon, one of Alexander's officers, was appointed with 
two others to command the army in Media on the death of 
Parmenion. During Alexander's absence in the far east he com- 
mitted many excesses, for which he was put to death on Alex- 
ander's return from India. 

Kalanos was a gymnosophist of Taxila, who left India with 
Alexander, and burned himself alive on a funeral pile at Sousa. 
His real name, Plutarch says, was Sp/u'na ; but the Greeks called 
him Kalanos, because, in saluting those he met, he used the word 
kale ! equivalent to hail! The Sanskrit adjective kalyana means 
salutary, lucky, well, etc. If we except Sandrokottos, Taxiles, and 
Poros, there is no other Indian with whose history, opinions, and 
personal characteristics the classical writers have made us so well 
acquainted as with those of Kalanos. For this reason, as well 



APPENDICES 387 

as because it falls properly within the scope of my undertaking to 
do so, I shall here present translations of all the passages I can 
find which relate to him, and to another gymnosophist who was 
a man of a very different stamp called Mandanes, and sometimes, 
but improperly, Dandamis. Arrian (VII. i. 5 — iii.) thus writes : — i. 5 . 
I commend the Indian sages of whom it is related that certain of 
them who had been caught by Alexander walking about according 
to their wont in the open meadow, did nothing else in sight of 
himself and his army but stamp upon the ground on which 
they were stepping. When he asked them through interpreters 
what they meant by so doing, they replied thus : O King Alex- 
ander, each man possesses as much of the earth as what we have 
stepped on ; but you, being a man like the rest of us, except that 
you wickedly disturb the peace of the world, have come so far 
from home to plague yourself and every one else, and yet ere 
long when you die you will possess just so much of the earth as 
will suffice to make a grave to cover your bones, ii. Alexander 
praised what they had said, but nevertheless continued to act in 
opposition to their advice. . , . When he arrived at Taxila and 
saw the Indian gymnosophists, he conceived a great desire that 
one of their number should live with him, because he admired 
their patience in enduring hardships. But the oldest of the 
iphilosophers, Dandamis by name, with whom the others lived as 
disciples, not only refused to go himself, but forbade the others to 
go. He is said to have replied that he was also a son of Zeus, 
if Alexander was such, 1 and that he wanted nothing that was 
Alexander's ; for he was content with what he had, while he saw 
that the men with Alexander wandered over sea and land for no 
advantage, and were never coming to an end of their wanderings. 
He desired, therefore, nothing it was in Alexander's power to 
give : nor did he fear being excluded from anything he possessed ; 
for while he lived, India would suffice for him, yielding him her 
fruits in due season, and when he died he would be delivered 
from the body an unsuitable companion. Alexander accordingly 
did not attempt to compel him to go with him, considering him 
free to please himself. But Megasthenes has stated that Kalanos, 
one of the philosophers of this place, was persuaded to go since 
he had no power of self-control, as the philosophers themselves 
allowed, who upbraided him because he had deserted the happi- 
ness among them, and went to serve another master than the 
deity, iii. I have thus written, because in a History of Alexander 
it was necessary to speak of Kalanos ; for when he was in the 

1 Referring to the terms in which he was summoned to go to Alexander. 
He was to go to " the son of Zeus." 



388 APPENDICES 

country of Persis he fell into delicate health, though he had never 
before had an illness. Accordingly, as he had no wish to lead 
the life of an invalid, he informed Alexander that, broken as he 
was in health, he thought it best to put an end to himself before 
he had experience of any malady that would oblige him to change 
his former mode of life. Alexander long and earnestly opposed 
his request ; but when he saw that he was quite inflexible, and 
that if one mode of death was denied him he would find another, 
he ordered a funeral pyre to be piled up in accordance with the 
man's own directions, and ordered Ptolemy, the son of Lagos, 
one of the bodyguards, to superintend all the arrangements. 
Some say that a solemn procession of horses and men advanced 
before him, some of the men being armed, while others carried 
all kinds of incense for the pyre. Others again say that they 
carried gold and silver bowls and royal apparel ; also, that a 
horse was provided for him because he was unable to walk from 
illness. He was, however, unable to mount the horse, and he was 
therefore carried on a litter crowned with a garland, after the manner 
of the Indians, and singing in the Indian tongue. The Indians 
say that what he sang were hymns to the gods and the praises 
of his countrymen, and that the horse which he was to have 
mounted — a Nesaian steed of the royal stud — he presented to 
Lysimachos who attended him for instruction in philosophy. On 
others who attended him he bestowed the bowls and rugs which 
Alexander, to honour him, had ordered to be cast into the pyre. 
Then mounting the pile, he lay down upon it in a becoming 
manner in full view of the whole army. Alexander deemed the 
spectacle one which he could not with propriety witness, because 
the man to suffer was his friend ; but to those who were present 
Kalanos caused astonishment in that he did not move any part 
of his body in the fire. As soon as the men charged with the 
duty set fire to the pile, the trumpets, Nearchos says, sounded by 
Alexander's order, and the whole army raised the war-shout as if 
advancing to battle. The elephants also swelled the noise with 
their shrill and warlike cry to do honour to Kalanos. 

In a subsequent chapter (xviii.) Arrian records the following 
story of Kalanos : When he was going to the funeral pyre to die, 
he embraced all his other companions, but did not wish to draw 
near to Alexander to give him a parting embrace, saying he would 
meet him at Babylon and would there embrace him. This 
remark attracted no notice at the time ; but afterwards, when 
Alexander died in Babylon, it came back to the memory of those 
who heard it, who then naturally took it to have been a prophecy 
of his death. Plutarch, in his Life of Alexander, has another 



APPENDICES 389 

notice of Kalanos besides that which the reader will find trans- 
lated in chapter 65. In chapter 69 he thus writes: "It was 
here (in Persepolis) that Kalanos, on being for a short, time 
afflicted with colic, desired to have his funeral pile erected. He 
was conveyed to it on horseback, and after he had prayed and 
sprinkled himself with a libation, and cut off part of his hair to 
cast into the fire, he ascended the pile, after taking leave of the 
Macedonians, and recommending them to devote that day to 
pleasure and hard drinking with the king, whom, said he, I shall 
shortly see in Babylon. Upon this he lay down on the pyre and 
covered himself up with his robes. When the flames approached 
he did not move, but remained in the same posture as when he 
lay down until the sacrifice was auspiciously consummated, accord- 
ing to the custom of the sages of his country. Many years after- 
wards another Indian in the presence of Caesar (Augustus) at 
Athens did the same thing. His tomb is shown till this day, and 
is called the Indian's tomb. — Alexander, on returning from the 
pyre, invited many of his friends and his generals to supper, 
where he proposed a drinking-bout, with a crown for the prize. 
Promachos, who drank most, reached four measures (14 quarts), 
and won the crown, which was worth a talent, but survived only 
for three days. The rest of the guests, Chares says, drank to 
such excess that forty -one of them died, the weather having 
turned excessively cold immediately after the debauch." The 
Indian who burned himself at Athens was called Zartnanochegas, 
as we learn from Strabo (XV. i. 73), who states, on the authority 
of Nikolaos of Damascus, that he came to Syria in the train of 
the ambassadors who were sent to Augustus Caesar by a great 
Indian king called Poros. "These ambassadors," he says, "were 
accompanied by the person who burnt himself to death at Athens. 
This is the practice with persons in distress, who seek escape 
from existing calamities, and with others in prosperous circum- 
stances, as was the case with this man. For as everything 
hitherto had succeeded with him, he thought it necessary to 
depart, lest some unexpected calamity should happen to him by 
continuing to live ; with a smile, therefore, naked, anointed, and 
with the girdle round his waist, he leaped upon the pyre. On 
his tomb was this inscription : Zarmanochegas, an Indian, a native 
of Bargosa (Barygaza, Baroch), having immortalised himself 
according to the custom of his country, here lies." Lassen takes 
the name Zarmanochegas to represent the Sanskrit S'ramanacharya, 
teacher of th-e S'ramanas, from which it would appear he was a 
Buddhist priest. Strabo writes at greater length than our his- 
torians about the gymnosophists. In Book XV. i. 61 we have 



390 APPENDICES 

the following notices : " Aristoboulos says that he saw at Taxila 
two sophists, both Brachmans, of whom the elder had his head 
shaved, while the younger wore his hair ; disciples attended both. 
They spent their time generally in the market-place. They are 
honoured as public counsellors, and are free to take away without 
charge any article exposed for sale which they may choose. He 
who accosts them pours over them oil of jessamine in such 
quantities that it runs down from their eyes. They make cakes 
of honey and sesamum, of which large quantities are always for 
sale, and their food thus costs them nothing. At Alexander's 
table they ate standing, and, to give a sample of their endurance, 
withdrew to a spot not far off, where the elder, lying down with 
his back to the ground, endured the sun and the rains which had 
set in as spring had just begun. The other stood on one leg, 
holding up with both his hands a bar of wood 3 cubits long ; 
one leg being tired he rested his weight on the other, and did 
this throughout the day. The younger seemed to have far more 
self-command ; for though he followed the king a short distance, 
he soon returned to his home. The king sent after him, but the 
king, he said, should come to him if he wanted anything from 
him. The other accompanied the king to the end of his life. 
During his stay he changed his dress and altered his mode of 
life, saying, when reproached for so doing, that he had completed 
the forty years of discipline which he had vowed to observe. 
Alexander gave presents to his children. (63) Onesikritos says 
that he himself was sent to converse with these sages. ... He 
found at the distance of twenty stadia from the city fifteen men 
standing in different attitudes, sitting or lying down naked, and 
continuing in these positions till the evening, when they went back 
to the city. What was hardest to bear was the heat of the sun, 
which was so powerful that no one else could bear without pain 
to walk barefooted on the ground at mid-day. (64) He conversed 
with Kalanos, one of these sages, who accompanied the king to 
Persia, and burned himself after the custom of his country on a 
pile of wood. Onesikritos found him lying upon stones, and 
drawing near to address him, informed him that he had been sent 
by the king, who had heard the fame of his wisdom. As the 
king would require an account of the interview, he was prepared 
to listen to his discourse if he did not object to converse with 
him. When Kalanos saw the cloak, head-dress, and shoes of his 
visitor, he laughed and said : " Formerly there was abundance of 
corn and barley in the world, as there is now of dust ; fountains 
then flowed with water, milk, honey, wine, and oil, but repletion 
and luxury made men turn proud and insolent. Zeus, indignant 



APPENDICES 391 

at this, destroyed all, and assigned to man a life of toil. When 
temperance and other virtues in consequence again appeared, 
then good things again abounded. But at present the condition 
of mankind tends to satiety and wantonness, and there is cause to 
fear lest the existing state of things should disappear." AVhen he 
had finished he proposed to Onesikritos, if he wished to hear his 
discourse, to strip off his clothes, to lie down naked beside him 
on the same stones, and in that manner to hear what he had to 
say. While he was uncertain what to do, Mandanes, the oldest 
and wisest of the sages, reproached Kalanos for his insolence — 
the very vice which he had been condemning. Mandanes then 
called Onesikritos to him, and said, I commend the king, because, 
although he governs so vast an empire, he is yet desirous of 
acquiring wisdom, for he is the only philosopher in arms that I 
ever saw. . . . (65) " The tendency of his discourse," he said, 
" was this, that the best philosophy was that which liberated the 
mind from pleasure and grief; that grief differed from labour, in 
that the former was pernicious, the latter friendly, to men ; for 
that men exercised their bodies with labour to strengthen the 
mental powers, whereby they would be able to end dissensions, 
and give every one good advice, both to the public and to private 
persons; that he should at present advise Taxiles to receive 
Alexander as a friend ; for by entertaining a person better than 
himself he might be improved, while by entertaining a worse he 
might influence that person to be good. After this Mandanes 
inquired whether such doctrines were taught among the Greeks. 
Onesikritos answered that Pythagoras taught a like doctrine, and 
instructed his disciples to abstain from whatever had life ; that 
Sokrates and Diogenes, whose discourses he had heard, held the 
same views. Mandanes replied, that in other respects he thought 
them to be wise; but that they were mistaken in preferring 
custom to nature, else they would not be ashamed to go naked 
as he did, and to live on frugal fare, for, said he, that is the best 
house that requires least repairs. He states further that they 
employ themselves much on natural subjects, as forecasting the 
future, rain, drought, and diseases. On going into the city they 
disperse themselves in the market-places. . . . Every wealthy 
house, even to the women's apartments, is open to them. When 
they enter they converse with the inmates and share their meal. 
Disease of the body they regard as very disgraceful, and he who 
fears that it will attack him, prepares a pyre and lets the flames 
consume him. He anoints himself beforehand, and when he 
has placed himself upon the pile orders it to be lighted, and 
remains motionless while he is burning. (66) Nearchos gives 



392 APPENDICES 

the following account of the sages : The Brachmans engage in 
public affairs, and attend the kings as counsellors ; the rest are 
occupied in the study of nature. Kalanos belonged to the latter 
class. Women study philosophy with them, and all lead an 
ascetic life. 

Athenaios in his Gymnosophists (x. p. 437) quotes, like Plut- 
arch, from Chares, the account of the drinking bout which 
followed the burning of Kalanos. He says that Alexander pro- 
posed the match on account of the bibulous propensities (phil- 
oinid) of the Indians. Other references to Kalanos are to be 
found in Ailianos, V. H. ii. 41 and v. 6 ; Lucian, De M. Pereg. 
25 ; Cicero, Disp. Tusc. ii. 22, and De Divin. i. 23, 30. In the 
romance History of Alexander, by the Pseudo-Kallisthenes, six 
long chapters of Book iii. (n-17) are full of Kalanos, Mandanes, 
and the Brachmans. 

St. Ambrose wrote a work, De Bragmanibus, in which the 
two gymnosophists are frequently mentioned. 

Kallisthenes was a native of Olynthos. He was brought 
up and educated by Aristotle, to whom he was related, and at 
whose recommendation he was permitted to accompany Alex- 
ander on his Asiatic expedition. He was deficient in tact and 
prudence, and exasperated the king by the freedom with which 
he censured him for adopting oriental customs, and especially 
for requiring Macedonians to perform the ceremony of adoratioa 
When the plot of the pages to assassinate Alexander was dis- 
covered, Kallisthenes was charged with being an accessary. 
According to Chares he was imprisoned for seven months, and 
died in India ; while Ptolemy states that he was tortured and 
crucified. Besides other works, he wrote an account of Alex- 
ander's expedition, to which Strabo and Plutarch make a few 
references, but it was a work of little if any value. 

Kanishka, a great Turanian conqueror, whose empire ex- 
tended from Kabul to Agra and Gujrut. He was an ardent 
Buddhist. The date of his coronation, 78 a.d., marks the begin- 
ning of the S akabda aera. 

Kleander, one of Alexander's officers. He was employed 
to kill Parmenion, to whom he was next in command at Ekbatana. 
He was himself put to death when he joined Alexander in Kar- 
mania, on account of his profligacy and oppression while in 
Media. 

Kleitos was a Macedonian, and brother to Alexander's nurse. 
He saved Alexander's life at the Granikos. When the com- 
panion cavalry was divided into two bodies, the command of 
one was given to Kleitos and of the other to Hephaisti6n. In 



APPENDICES 393 

328 B.C. he was appointed to succeed Artabazos in the satrapy of 
Baktria, but on the eve of his departure to take up this office 
he was killed by Alexander in a drunken brawl. 

Koinos was the son of Polemokrates, and the son-in-law of 
Parmenion. He was one of Alexander's ablest generals, and 
greatly distinguished himself on various occasions, and especially 
in the battle with Poros. When Alexander had reached the 
Hyphasis and wished to proceed farther and reach the Ganges, 
Koinos had the courage to remonstrate, and the king was obliged 
to act on his advice. He died soon after of an illness, and was 
honoured with a splendid burial. 

K6phaios. — A chief whose dominions lay to the west of the 
Indus and along the river Kophen. 

Koragos. — A Macedonian bravo called also Horratas. 

Kosmas Indikopleustes. — An Egyptian monk who flourished 
towards the middle of the sixth century of our aera. In early 
life he was a merchant, and visited for traffic various countries, 
Aethiopia, Syria, Arabia, Persia, India, and many other places of 
the East After he had taken to monastic life he wrote a work 
called Christian Topography, which is valuable for the geogra- 
phical and historical information it contains. It has some 
notices concerning India, especially concerning -its Christian 
communities. 

Krateros, a Macedonian of Orestis, was one of Alexander's 
most distinguished generals, and next to Hephaistion his greatest 
favourite. He was in command of infantry on the left wing at 
Issos, and of cavalry on the same wing at Gaugamela. He rose 
afterwards to be commander of one of the divisions of the 
phalanx. On the day of the battle with Poros he was left with a 
part of the army in the camp, and did not cross the river till 
victory had declared for Alexander. He commanded the troops 
which were sent back from India by way of the Bolan Pass to 
Karmania. At Sousa he married Amastris, the niece of Darius, 
after which he led, along with Polysperchon, the discharged 
veterans back to Europe. In the division of the empire after 
Alexander's death Greece and Macedonia and other European 
provinces fell to the share of Antipater and Krateros, who 
divorced Amastris and married Phila, Antipater's daughter. In 
321 B.C. Krateros fell in battle against Eumenes, who honoured 
his old comrade in the Indian wars with a magnificent funeral. 

Kyrsilos, a native of Pharsalos, who accompanied Alexander 
to Asia and wrote an account of his exploits. He is mentioned 
by Strabo (XL xiv. r 2). 



394 



APPENDICES 



Leonnatos, a native of Pella, was one of Alexander's most 
capable and distinguished officers. At the time of Philip's death he 
occupied one of the highest positions at court, being one of the 
select bodyguard called somatophy lakes, but under Alexander he 
was at first only an officer of the companion cavalry. After the 
battle of Issos he was sent to inform the wife of Darius of her 
husband's safety, and when Arrhybas, one of the bodyguards, 
died in Egypt, he was promoted to the vacant post. After this 
his name continually occurs among the names of those who were 
constantly about the king's person and stood highest in his con- 
fidence. On several occasions he showed the greatest courage, 
and at the siege of the Mallian stronghold he saved, along with 
Peukestas, the king's life. When the army marched back from 
India he was left to overawe the Oreitai, and to wait in their 
country till Nearchos should reach it with the fleet He inflicted 
a crushing defeat on that people, who had assembled a large 
army after Alexander had left their borders. For this and other 
services he was rewarded at Sousa with a golden crown. In the 
division of the empire he received only the satrapy of the Lesser 
Phrygia, a share which by no means satisfied his ambition. 
Kleopatra, Alexander's sister, then offered him her hand on con- 
dition that he should assist her against Antipater, the regent of 
Macedonia. He consented, but when he passed over into that 
country he was slain in battle against the Greeks, who had re- 
volted from Antipater, whose dominions he wished to appropriate 
in their integrity. 

Lysimachos was one of Alexander's great generals and one of 
his select bodyguards. He was born at Pella — the son of a 
Thessalian serf who by his flatteries had won the good graces of 
King Philip. Great personal strength and undaunted courage 
seem to have been the qualities by which Lysimachos gained his 
splendid position, for he was seldom entrusted by Alexander with 
any separate command of importance. He was present in the 
battle with Poros, and was wounded at the siege of Sangala. In 
the division of the empire he obtained Thrace for his share, but 
his dominions after the battle of Issos, in which along with 
Seleukos, Ptolemy, and Kassander, he defeated Antigonos and 
his son Demetrios, embraced for a time all Alexander's European 
possessions, in addition to Asia Minor. His third wife was 
Arsinoe, the daughter of Ptolemy, King of Egypt. In 281 B.c. 
he was defeated and slain by his old comrade in arms, Seleukos. 
He was then eighty years of age. 

Megasthenes, the ambassador sent by Seleukos Nikator to 



APPENDICES 395 

the court of Sandrokottos, and author of a work on India of the 
highest value. Though this work is lost, numerous fragments 
have been preserved by Strabo, Arrian, Pliny, and many other 
writers. 

Mela, Pomponius, the first Roman author known to have 
composed a formal work on geography. It is supposed that he 
flourished under the Emperor Claudius. 

Meleager was by birth a Macedonian, and served with dis- 
tinction in Alexander's Asiatic campaigns, where he commanded 
one of the divisions of the phalanx. He was present in the great 
battles of the Granikos, Issos, Gaugamela, and the Hydaspes. 
He was never entrusted, however, with any special or important 
command. He was a man of an insolent and factious disposi- 
tion, and showed himself to be such in the discussions which 
arose between the generals after Alexander's death concerning 
the arrangements which should be made for the government of 
the empire. He led for a time the opposition against Perdik- 
kas, but was afterwards for a short time associated with him in 
the regency. Two such colleagues could not long act in har- 
mony. Perdikkas, who was an adept in the arts of dissimulation, 
lulled Meleager into fancied security, devised a cunning scheme 
for his overthrow, and having succeeded in this ordered him to 
be put to death. 

Memn6n, the Rhodian, was the brother of Mentor, who stood 
high in the favour of Darius, and brother-in-law of Artabazos, the 
satrap of Lower Phrygia. On the death of his brother, Memnon, 
who possessed great military skill and experience, succeeded to 
his authority, which extended over the coast of Asia Minor. He 
was the most formidable opponent Alexander encountered in 
Western Asia. Fortunately for him, Memnon died in 333 B.C., 
when preparing to sail for Greece, where the Spartans were ready 
to join him and rise against the Macedonians. 

M6phis. — See Taxiles. 

Mousikanos was the ruler of a rich and fertile kingdom which 
lay along the banks of the Indus, in Upper Sindh. He submitted 
to Alexander without resistance, and was allowed to retain his 
sovereignty. The Brahmans, however, prevailed on him to revolt 
during Alexander's absence. He was captured by Peithon and 
crucified by Alexander's orders. 

Mullinus is called by Curtius the king's secretary. Eumenes 
is probably meant. The name is not met with except in one 
passage in Curtius. 

Nearchos. — Among all the great men associated with Alex- 



396 APPENDICES 

ander no one has left a reputation more noble and unsullied than 
that of Nearchos. The long and difficult voyage in unknown seas 
which he successfully accomplished ranks as one of the greatest 
achievements in the annals of navigation. He was free from the 
mad ambition to rule which gave rise to the deadly feuds between 
Alexander's other great generals, and stained the records of their 
lives with so many dark crimes. He was a native of Crete, but 
settled at Amphipolis, a Macedonian city near the Thracian 
border. He held a high position at the court of King Philip, 
where he attached himself to the party of the young prince, and 
was banished along with Ptolemy, Harpalos, and others, who had 
involved themselves in his intrigues. Alexander, on mounting the 
throne, recalled his former partisans, and did not neglect their 
interests. Nearchos accompanied him into Asia, where he was 
appointed governor of Lykia and other provinces south of the 
Tauros. This post he continued to hold for five years. He 
rejoined Alexander before he left Baktria to invade India, and in 
India he was appointed commander of the fleet which was built 
on the Hydaspes. He conducted it down that river and the 
Akesines and the Indus to Patala (now Haidarabad), a naval 
station at the apex of the Indus Delta. He arrived at that place 
about the time when the south-west monsoon usually sets in. 
Alexander, on returning to Patala from the excursions he made 
to the ocean, removed the fleet to Killouta, an island in the 
western branch of the Indus, which possessed a commodious 
haven. He then set out on his return to Persia, leaving the fleet 
with Nearchos, who had relieved Alexander's mind of a load of 
anxiety by voluntarily proffering his services to conduct the ex- 
pedition by sea to the head of the Persian Gulf. When we 
consider, as Bunbury remarks, the total ignorance of the Greeks 
at this time concerning the Indian seas, and the imperfect char- 
acter of their navigation, it is impossible not to admire the noble 
confidence with which Nearchos ventured to promise that he 
would bring the ships in safety to the shores of Persia, " if the sea 
were navigable and the thing feasible for mortal man." Nearchos 
wished to defer his departure till the monsoon had quite sub- 
sided, but as he was in danger of being attacked by the natives, 
who were no longer overawed by Alexander's presence, he set sail 
on the 21st of September, 325 b.c. He was forced, however, by 
the violence of the weather, when he had reached the mouth of 
the Indus, to take refuge in a sheltered bay at a station which he 
called Alexander's Haven, and which is now known as Karachi, 
the great emporium of the trade of the Indus. After a deten- 
tion here for twenty-four days, he resumed his voyage on the 23rd 



APPENDICES 397 

of October. Coasting the shore of the Arables for 80 miles, 
he reached the mouth of the river Arabis (now the Purali), which 
divides the Arables from the Oreitai. The coast of the latter 
people, which was 100 miles in extent, was navigated in eighteen 
days. At one of the landing-places the ships were supplied by 
Leonnatos with stores of corn, which lasted ten days. The naviga- 
tion of the Mekran coast which succeeded occupied twenty days, 
and the distance traversed was 480 miles English, though Near- 
chos in his journal has set it down at 10,000 stadia or 1250 
miles. The expedition in this part of the voyage suffered great 
distress for want of provisions. The coast was barren, and its 
savage inhabitants, the Ichthyophagi, 1 had little else to subsist 
on than fish, which some of them ate raw. 2 The Karmanian 
coast, which succeeded, was not so distressingly barren, but was 
even, in certain favoured localities, extremely fertile and beauti- 
ful. Its length was 296 miles, and the time taken in its naviga- 
tion was nineteen days, some of which, however, were spent at 
the mouth of the river Anamis (now the Minab), whence Near- 
chos made a journey into the interior to apprise Alexander of 
the safety of his fleet. The coasts of Persis and Sousis were 
navigated in thirty-one days. Nearchos had intended to sail up 
the Tigris, but having passed its mouth unawares, continued sail- 
ing westward till he reached Diridotis (Teredon), an emporium 
in Babylonia on the Pallocopas branch of the Euphrates. He 
thence retraced his course to the Tigris, and ascended its stream 
till he reached a lake through which at that time it flowed and 
which received the river Pasitigris, the Ulai of Scripture, and now 
the Karun. The fleet proceeded up this river till it met the army 
near a bridge on the highway from Persis to Sousa. It anchored at 
the bridge on the 24th of February, 324 B.C., so that the whole 
voyage was performed in 146 days. Nearchos received appro- 
priate rewards for the splendid service he had so successfully 
performed. Alexander was sending him away on another great 
maritime expedition when the illness which carried off the great 

1 According to Dr. Bellew this various races with which Alexander 

name is the Greek equivalent of the came into contact during his Asiatic 

Persian Mdhikhordn, "fish -eaters," expedition.] 

still surviving in the modern Makr&n. 2 Major E. Mockler, the political 

[Since the above note was written the agent of Makran, contributed some 

cause of Eastern learning and research years ago to the Journal of the Royal 

has suffered a grievous loss by the Asiatic Society a valuable paper on 

death of this distinguished Orientalist, the identification of places on this 

whose work on the Ethnology of coast mentioned by Arrian, Ptolemy, 

Afghanistan will prove a lasting monu- and Marcian, in which he corrected 

ment to his fame. The work discusses some errors into which the commen- 

inter alia the ethnic affinities of the tators on these authors had fallen. 



398 APPENDICES 

conqueror broke up the enterprise. In the discussions which 
followed regarding the succession to the throne, Nearchos un- 
successfully advocated the claims of Herakles, the son of Alex- 
ander by Barsine, who was the daughter of Artabazos and the 
widow of Memnon the Rhodian. He acquiesced, however, in 
the arrangements made by the other generals, and was content 
with receiving his former government, even though he was to 
hold it subject to the authority of Antigonos. He accompanied 
his superior when he marched against Eumenes, and interceded 
for the life of the latter when he fell into the hands of his 
enemies. Nothing is known of his history after the year 314 
B.C., when he was selected by Antigonos to assist his son Deme- 
trios with his counsels when left for the first time in command 
of an army. 

Nikanor, the son of Parmenion, was commander of the hypas- 
pists or footguards in the Asiatic expedition. He was present 
in the three great battles against the troops of Darius, and died 
of disease before the charge of conspiracy was preferred against 
his brother Philotas. 

Olympias, the mother of Alexander, was a passionate, ambi- 
tious, and intriguing woman. She was put to death by order of 
Kassander, the son of the regent Antipater, in 316 B.C., thus 
surviving her son seven years. 

Omphis. — See Taxiles. 

Onesikritos was a Greek historical writer who accompanied 
Alexander on his Asiatic expedition. He professed the philosophy 
of Diogenes the Cynic, and on this account was sent by Alexander 
to converse with the gymnosophists of Taxila. He was the pilot 
of Alexander's ship and of the fleet in sailing down the Indus, 
and afterwards during the voyage to the head of the Persian Gulf. 
The history written by Onesikritos, which embraced the whole 
life of Alexander, fell into discredit owing to the manner in which 
he intermingled fact with fiction. His work was, however, too 
much undervalued. He was the first author who mentions the 
island of Taprobane (Ceylon). In his later years he attached 
himself to the fortunes of Lysimachos of Thrace. 

Orosius was a Spanish ecclesiastic of the fifth century, who 
wrote a history of the world from the creation down to the year 
a.d. 417. 

Oxyartes, a Baktrian, the father of Alexander's queen 
Roxana, was one of the chiefs who accompanied Bessos on his 
retreat across the Oxus into Sogdiana. Alexander, after marry- 
ing his daughter, appointed him satrap of the land of the Paro- 



APPENDICES 399 

pamisidai, and his successors allowed him to retain that govern- 
ment. It is not known how long he lived, but it is supposed 
that he was dead when Seleukos undertook his Indian expedition, 
as his dominions were among those which were surrendered to 
Sandrokottos. 

Oxykanos, called Portikanos by Strabo and Diodoros, ruled 
a territory which adjoined that of Mousikanos, but its exact posi- 
tion or boundaries cannot be ascertained. 

Panini, the celebrated Indian grammarian, was a native of 
Salatura, in Gandhara. His date is generally referred to the 
fourth century B.C., but this is still a matter of controversy. 

Parmenion was the most experienced and most trusted general 
who accompanied Alexander into Asia. He commanded the 
left wing of the Macedonian army in the three great battles 
against Darius. He was left in command in Media, and so did 
not accompany the expedition into India. His assassination has 
left an indelible stain on Alexander's character. 

Patrokles was a general who held under Seleukos and 
Antiochos an important government over some eastern provinces 
of the Syrian empire. He collected much valuable information 
regarding the little-known parts which adjoined his province. 
His work, embodying this information, is frequently quoted by 
Strabo. 

Pausanias was the author of an Itinerary of Greece, full of 
valuable topographical and antiquarian information. He wrote 
in the age of the Antonines. 

Peith6n. — Three officers of this name accompanied Alex- 
ander into Asia — first, Peithon, the son of Sosikles, who was 
wounded and taken prisoner by the Skythians under Spitamenes, 
and is not subsequently mentioned ; second, Peithon, the son of 
Krateuas, who, like Ptolemy, was a native of Eordaia, and a 
member of the select bodyguard ; third, Peithon, the son of 
Agenor, who, like the preceding, rendered distinguished services 
in the Indian campaigns. The historians have recorded nothing 
of their previous achievements, and when they come to mention 
those performed in India, do not always make it clear to which 
of the two they mean to ascribe them. 

Peith6n, the son of Krateuas, after Alexander's death pro- 
posed that Perdikkas and Leonnatos should be appointed joint 
regents of the empire, and for this service was rewarded with the 
satrapy of Media. After the assassination of Perdikkas he was 
himself, through the influence of Ptolemy, raised to the regency 
in conjunction with Arrhidaios, but was soon compelled to resign 



4 oo APPENDICES 

and retire to his Median government. He assisted Antigonos to 
overthrow Eumenes; but Antigonos, having subsequently sus- 
pected him of entertaining treasonable designs, brought him to 
trial before a council, and ordered him to be put to death in 
316 B.C. 

Peith6n, the son of Agenor, took an active part in the wars 
against the Malloi and Mousikanos while holding the command 
of one of the divisions of the footguards. He was appointed 
satrap of Sindh from the great confluence downward to the sea- 
coast, and was left behind in his province when Alexander took 
his departure from India. After the death of Alexander he was 
confirmed in his government, but, it would appear, was ousted 
from it by Poros. After the fall of Eumenes he received from 
Antigonos, whose side be had favoured, the satrapy of Babylon. 
While serving with Demetrios, the son of Antigonos, he was slain 
in the battle of Gaza, in which the young prince rashly and against 
his advice engaged Ptolemy. This battle was fought in 312 B.C. 

Perdikkas — one of Alexander's greatest generals — was a 
native of the Macedonian province of Orestis, and descended, 
according to Curtius, from a royal house. Under Philip he held 
one of the highest offices at court, being a somatophylax, and 
under Alexander he held the same position along with the com- 
mand of a division of the phalanx, but afterwards of a division of 
the companion cavalry. He distinguished himself at the siege 
of Thebes, where he was severely wounded, and in the three 
great battles against the armies of Darius. In the Persian, 
Sogdian, and Indian campaigns he was frequently entrusted with 
separate commands of great importance, and at Sousa was re- 
warded for his services with a crown of gold and with the hand 
of the daughter of the Median satrap. He was present with 
Alexander during his fatal illness ; and it is said that the king 
when expiring took off the royal signet-ring from his finger and 
gave it to him, as if to indicate him as his successor. In the 
deliberations which followed to settle the succession, Perdikkas 
took a prominent part, and, with the consent of most of the other 
generals, was appointed to act as regent of the empire on behalf 
of Roxana's yet unborn child, which, it was hoped, might prove 
to be a son. His selfish ambition, however, and acts of cruelty 
soon created violent discontent, and a combination was formed 
against: him by Antigonos, whom he attempted to bring to trial 
for misgovernment, but who effected his escape to Macedonia, 
and persuaded Antipater, Krateros, and Ptolemy to take up arms 
on his behalf. He was slain by his own troops in Egypt, whither 
he had proceeded in the hope of being able to crush Ptolemy 



APPENDICES 401 

before takingmeasures against the otherconfederates. Perdikkas was 
crafty, cruel, and arrogant, without magnanimity, and, indeed, with- 
out any virtue except personal courage and capacity as a general. 

Peukestas, a native of Mieza in Macedonia, was one of 
Alexander's great officers, and had the honour of carrying before 
him in battle the sacred shield taken down from the temple of 
Athena at Ilion. He is first mentioned as one of the officers 
appointed to command a trireme on the Hydaspes. He had a 
chief share in saving Alexander's life in the citadel of the Mallian 
capital, and for this service was rewarded by being appointed 
a somatophylax and afterwards satrap of Persia. After being 
presented at Sousa with a golden crown, he proceeded to take 
possession of his government, when he adopted the Persian dress 
and Persian customs, thus pleasing his subjects as well as Alex- 
ander himself. He was in attendance on the king during his 
last illness, but does not appear to have taken any leading part 
in the discussions held after his death regarding the succession. 
He was, however, permitted to retain his government. He took 
an active part in the war conducted by Eumenes against Anti- 
gonos. He was vain and fond of display, and his treachery 
towards Eumenes, whom he helped to betray into the hands of 
his enemies, has left a dark stain on his character. 

Phegelas, or, as he is called by Diodoros, Phegeus, was 
chief of a territory which lay between the Hydraotes and the 
Hyphasis. With regard to the name, M. Sylvain Levi gives pre- 
ference to the form Phegelas, and states his reason thus : " The 
e answers to the a of Sanskrit, the g to the g or to they. Phegeus 
does not border on a known form ; Phegelas, on the contrary, 
answers directly to the Sanskrit Bhagala — the name of a royal 
race of Kshatriyas which the Gana-patha classes under the rubric 
Bahu, etc., with the name even of Taxiles, Ambhi." {Journal 
Asiatique for 1890, p. 239.) 

Philippos, the son of Machatas, was one of Alexander's 
officers. In 327 B.C. he was appointed satrap of India. After 
Alexander left India he was assassinated in a conspiracy formed 
against him by the mercenaries under his command. 

Phrataphernes was, under Darius, governor of Parthia and 
Hyrkania. He accompanied that sovereign in his flight from 
Arbela, but after his death submitted to Alexander, who reinstated 
him in his satrapy. He joined Alexander in India after Poros 
had been defeated, but seems to have soon afterwards returned 
to his satrapy, whence he sent supplies to the Macedonian army 
when pursuing its distressing march through Gedrosia. The 
successors of Alexander allowed him to retain his satrapy. 

2 D 



4 o2 APPENDICES 

Polyainos, a Macedonian, who flourished about the middle 
of the second century of our aera, and was the author of a work on 
the stratagems of war, which is still extant. 

Polykleitos was a native of Larissa, who wrote a history of 
Alexander. Most of the extracts preserved from this work refer 
to the geography of the countries which Alexander conquered. 

Polysperchon, or Polyperchon, was one of the oldest offi- 
cers of a high rank in Alexander's service. After the battle of 
Issos he was promoted to the command of a division of the 
phalanx in succession to Ptolemy, the son of Seleukos, who fell 
in that battle. In Baktria he offended Alexander by casting 
ridicule on the ceremony of prostration, and was thus for a time 
in disgrace. He was present at the passage of the Hydaspes, 
and also in the descent of the Indus, and was then sent with 
Krateros to conduct the veterans from India to Karmania by 
way of the Bolan Pass. He was not in Babylon at the time of 
Alexander's death, and hence was passed over in the allotment 
of the provinces made after that event. When war, however, 
broke out between Antipater and Perdikkas, the former committed 
to his hands the chief command in Macedonia and Greece during 
his absence in Asia. The veteran general showed himself worthy 
of the trust reposed in him, and received the reward of his 
services at Antipater's death, who appointed him, in preference 
to his own son, Kassander, to be his successor in the regency. 
After many vicissitudes of fortune, and disgracing his name by 
his treachery towards Phokion, and his causing Herakles, the son 
of Alexander, whose cause he had espoused, to be murdered, he 
disappears from history after the year 303 B.C. 

P6ros was the most powerful king in the Panjab at the time 
of Alexander's invasion. He was then at enmity with Omphis, 
the king of Taxila, but in alliance with Abisares, the king of 
Kas'mir. After his defeat and submission to the conqueror, he 
was confirmed in his kingdom, the limits of which were after- 
wards considerably extended. All that is known of his history 
will be found in the translations, if read along with the notice 
below, of Sandrokottos, except that after Alexander's death he 
made himself master of Sindh, from which he ousted Peithon. 
The name of Poros, which is formed from Paura or Paurava, 
with the Greek termination os added, shows that he belonged to 
a family of the Lunar race. Bohlen, however, takes the name to 
be a corruption of the Sanskrit Paunis/ni, which means " heroic." 

Portikanos. — See Oxykanos. 

Ptolemy, called the son of Lagos, is supposed to have been 
in reality the son of Philip, as his mother Arsinoe was the con- 



APPENDICES 



403 



cubine of that king, and was pregnant when married to Lagos. 
Of all Alexander's generals Ptolemy was the one who approached 
him nearest in a capacity both for war and government, while he 
did not fall short of him in magnanimity of disposition. He was 
banished from Macedonia by Philip, who discovered that he was 
promoting with others a marriage between Alexander and the 
daughter of Pixodaros, the king of Karia. He rendered im- 
portant services in the war against Darius ; and when Demetrios, 
a member of the select bodyguard, was arrested on suspicion of 
being concerned in the conspiracy of Philotas, Ptolemy was pro- 
moted to fill his place. It was he who obtained information of 
the plot of Hermolaos, and by revealing it was probably the 
means of saving the king's life'.- In the battle with the Aspasians, 
Ptolemy slew their leader with his own hand, and in the campaigns 
in' India he was on several occasions entrusted -with separate 
commands of great importance. The story of Alexander's dream, 
which led to the discovery of a plant by which Ptolemy was 
cured of a dangerous wound inflicted by a poisoned arrow, must 
be apocryphal, since Arrian, who had Ptolemy's own memoirs of 
the expedition constantly before him, is silent on the subject. At 
Sousa he received in marriage a daughter of Artabazos. After 
Alexander's death he obtained Egypt as his share of the empire, 
and raised that country to a high pitch of prosperity. He reigned 
for no less than forty years. The dynasty which he founded, 
after subsisting for nearly two hundred years, ended with the 
death of Kleopatra. 

Ptolemy III. ascended the throne of Egypt in 247 B.C. in 
succession to his father Ptolemy Philadelphos. In the early part 
of his reign he overran Syria, and having thence turned his arms 



Fig. 25. — Ptolemy III. 

eastward, advanced as far as Babylon and Sousa, and received 
the submission of all the upper provinces of Asia as far as the 
borders of Baktria and India. On returning to his kingdom he 
carried back with him the statues of the Egyptian deities which 
Kambyses had removed to the East, and restored them to their 



4°4 



APPENDICES 



proper temples, an act which won for him the gratitude of the 
Egyptians and the title by which he is generally known, Euergetes, 
i.e. Benefactor. Like his father he distinguished himself by his 
munificent patronage of literature and science. He was one of 
the kings to whom Buddhist missionaries were sent by the 
Indian king As'oka. He died in the year 222 B.C. 

Ptolemy Physkon, king of Egypt, succeeded his brother 
Ptolemy VI., surnamed Philometer. 

R6xana, the daughter of the Baktrian chief Oxyartes, was 
considered by the Macedonians the most beautiful woman in 
Asia, next to the wife of Darius. Alexander, who found her 
charms irresistible, made her his wife, and she bore him a post- 
humous son, called Alexander Aigos, who was admitted to a share 
of the sovereignty under the regency of Perdikkas. Before his 
birth she had enticed Alexander's other widow, Barsine or Stateira, 
to Babylon, and caused her to be murdered. She subsequently 
fell, with her son, into the power of Kassander, who placed them 
both in Amphipolis, where in 3 1 1 B.C. they were both murdered 
by their keeper, Glaukias. 

Sambus was the satrap of a mountainous country adjoining 
the kingdom of Mousikanos, with whom he was at feud. His 
capital, called Sindimana, has been identified with Sehwan, a city 
on the Indus, for which see Note S. Sambus fled on Alexander's 
approach, not to evade submission, but because he learned that 
his enemy, Mousikanos, had been received into the conqueror's 
favour. 

Sandrokottos (Chandragupta). — Sandrokottos, with the ex- 
ception perhaps of his grandson, As'oka, was the greatest ruler 
ancient India produced. Though of humble origin, he overthrew 
the Macedonian power in the Panjab, conquered the kingdom of 
Magadha, and founded a wide empire such as no Indian king had 
before possessed. He is also memorable on another account. 
Those learned men who about a century ago took up the study of 
Sanskrit, established his identity with the Chandragupta who is 
mentioned in the Buddhist Chronicle of Ceylon as the founder of 
the Mauryan dynasty of Magadha, and by fixing the date of his 
accession to the throne of that kingdom, supplied the chronology 
of ancient India with its first properly-ascertained aera, and thus 
brought it into line with the chronology of general history. 

Besides the notices of this great sovereign in the writings we 
have translated, the following occur elsewhere in the classics : — 
Appian (Syriakt; c. 55), speaking of Seleukos, says: "And 



APPENDICES 405 

having crossed the Indus, he warred with Androkottos, the king 
of the Indians, who dwelt about that river, until he entered into 
an alliance and a marriage affinity with him." Strabo (II. i. 9) 
says : " Both of these men were sent to Palimbothra, Megasthenes 
to Sandrokottos, and Deimachos to Allitrochades, his son," and 
in XV. i. 36 repeats the statement as concerns Megasthenes. In 
XV. i. 53 we read: "Megasthenes, who was 'in the camp of 
Sandrokottos, which consisted of 400,000 men, did not witness 
on any day thefts reported which exceeded the sum of 200 
drachmai, and this among a people who have no written laws, 
who are ignorant even of writing, and regulate everything by 
memory.'' Lastly, in XV. i. 57 we read: "Similar to this is the 
account of the Enotokoitai, of the wild men, and of other 
monsters. The wild men could not be brought to Sandrokottos, 
for they died by abstaining from food." Arrian in his Indika 
(c. 5) says : " But even Megasthenes, as far as appears, did not 
travel over much of India, though no doubt he saw more of it 
than those who came with Alexander, the son of Philip, for, as 
he says, he had interviews with Sandrokottos, the greatest king of 
the Indians, and with Poros, who was still greater than he." 1 
Lastly, Athenaios mentions him in his Deipnosophists (c. 1 8 d) : 
"Phylarchos says that among the presents which Sandrokoptos, 
the king of the Indians, sent to Seleukos were certain powerful 
aphrodisiacs." It will be observed that Athenaios transcribes the 
name of the Indian king more correctly than any of the other 
authors. 

These detached notices, combined with those which appear 
in the translations, we may now gather together into a con- 
nected and consistent narrative. Sandrokottos was of obscure 
birth, and, from the remark of Plutarch that in his early years he 
had seen Alexander, we may infer that he was a native of the 
Panjab. It was at one time thought that he had in some way 
offended the conqueror, and that to escape the effects of his dis- 
pleasure, he had fled for protection to the court of Magadha. 
But this belief must now be given up, as it was based on a 
corrupt passage in Justin, which, by the restoration of the correct 
reading, shows that it was not Alexander whom he had offended, 
but Nandrus or Xandrames, the Magadha king. We do not 
know what induced Sandrokottos to leave his home and take 
service under the latter monarch, but we incline to attribute it to 
a sentiment of patriotism forbidding him to seek office or advance- 

1 A slight emendation of the read- say that Sandrokottos was greater 
ing(suggestedbySchwanbeck)restores even than Poros. 
the passage to sense, making Arrian 



4 o6 APPENDICES 

ment under a power which had crushed the liberties of his 
country. What the nature of his offence against Nandrus was 
does not appear, but he so dreaded his resentment that he quitted 
his dominions and returned home to the Panjab. He found it, 
although Alexander had now been six years dead, still under 
Greek vassalage, and ruled as formerly in civil matters by Omphis 
of Taxila and the great Poros, while the military administration 
had passed into the hands of Eudemos. Soon after his arrival, 
however, the order of things was violently disturbed. Eudemos 
having decoyed Poros into his power, treacherously murdered 
him, 1 but had no sooner done so than he was recalled to the 
west to succour Eumenes in his war against Antigonos. As he 
took with him 3000 foot, 500 horse, and 125 elephants, he de- 
nuded the province of the main strength of the force by which it 
was held in subjection, and his departure was fatal to Greek 
power. The Indians, who longed for freedom, and were no 
doubt greatly incensed by the murder of Poros, rose in revolt 
Sandrokottos, who headed this movement, having collected a 
band of insurgents, overthrew the existing government, expelled 
the remainder of the Greek garrison, and finally installed himself 
in the sovereignty of the Panjab and of all the lower valley of the 
Indus. The insurgents, whom he led to victory, are called by 
Justin robbers ; but we must not thence infer that he was a bandit 
leader, who, by taking advantage of an opportune crisis, rose to 
power by the help of desperadoes whose crimes had banished 
them from society. His adherents were, in point of fact, chiefly 
the Aratia of the Panjab, who were always called robbers, and are 
denounced as such in the Mahabharata. The Kathaians, who 
so stoutly resisted Alexander at Sangala, were included under this 
designation, which means Kingless, and implies that they lived 
under republican institutions. The stories told by the same 
author of the lion which licked the sweat from Sandrokottos when 
asleep, and of the elephant which volunteered to carry him into 
battle, and thus gave presages of his future greatness, reflect the 
true spirit of oriental romance, and were no doubt derived from 
native traditions which somehow found their way to the west. 
They remind one of Joseph's dreams, in which he saw the sheaves 
and then the heavenly bodies falling down in obeisance before 
him. 

Sandrokottos while in Magadha had seen that the king was 
held in such odium and contempt by his subjects that, as Plutarch 

1 It seems that Poros, after Alex- held till then by Peithon son of 
ander's death, had possessed himself Agenor. 
of the satrapy of the Loner Indus, 



APPENDICES 407 

tells us, he used often afterwards to speak of the ease with which 
Alexander might have possessed himself of the whole country. He 
accordingly had no sooner settled the affairs of the Panjab than 
he prepared to invade the dominions of his former master. The 
success which he anticipated followed his arms. He overthrew 
with ease the unpopular despot, and having received the submis- 
sion of Magadha, extended his conquests far beyond its eastern 
limits. He was thus able to combine into one great empire the 
regions both of the Indus and the Ganges. He established the 
seat of government at Palibothra, the capital of Magadha, a great 
city advantageously situated at the confluence of the Erannoboas or 
Son with the Ganges, and on the site now occupied by Patna, 
beneath which, at a depth of from 12 to 15 feet, its ruins lie 
entombed. 

While Sandrokottos was thus, with a genius like that of Akbar, 
welding the states of India into unity, the successors of Alexander 
were too much engrossed with their internecine wars to concern 
themselves with his doings ; but when they had for a time com- 
posed their differences, Seleukos Nikator, the king of Syria, 
advanced eastward to recover the Indian conquests of Alexander. 
The date of this expedition cannot be fixed with precision, but it 
was probably made in the year 305 B.C., or about ten years after 
Sandrokottos had ascended the throne of Palibothra. The 
records of it are unfortunately lost. It seems that he was allowed 
to cross the Indus without opposition, but it is not known how 
far he advanced into the country. We do not even know whether 
the hostile armies came into actual conflict, but we may con- 
jecture that the sight of the vast and formidable host brought 
into the field by his antagonist, who was an experienced com- 
mander of the stamp of Poros, led him to think discretion would 
be the better part of valour, and to prefer entering into negotia- 
tions rather than to risk the chance of defeat. At all events 
he concluded a treaty by which he not only resigned his claims 
to the Greek conquests beyond the Indus, but ceded to the 
Indian king considerable districts extending westward from that 
river to the southern slopes of the Hindu -Kush. The com- 
pact was cemented by a matrimonial alliance, the Syrian king 
giving his daughter in marriage to Sandrokottos. Friendly 
relations seem to have subsisted ever afterwards between the two 
sovereigns. 

Seleukos sent as his ambassador to the Indian court his friend 
and companion Megasthenes. This was a fortunate choice, 
for while there Megasthenes, who was an acute observer and of 
an inquisitive turn of mind, composed a work on India, in which 



408 APPENDICES 

he gave a faithful account of what fell under his own observation, 
as well as of what facts he could gather from trustworthy reports. 
That work, now lost, was the source whence Strabo and other 
classical authors derived most of their information regarding 
India. In such of the fragments thus preserved as relate to 
Sandrokottos, we find an admirable picture of his system of 
government, of his personal habits, and of the regulations of his 
court. He did not live to old age, but died in 291 B.C., before 
he had reached his fifty-fifth year. 

When we turn to the Buddhist accounts of Chandragupta we 
find them tally so closely in all main points with the Greek 
accounts of Sandrokottos that no doubt can be left that the two 
names which are so nearly similar denote but one and the same 
person. As he was the founder of the dynasty to which the 
pious As'oka, the Constantine of the Buddhist faith, belonged, 
the Buddhist writers assign to him an honourable pedigree which 
connected him even with the royal house whence Buddha him- 
self sprang. His father, they tell us, reigned over a small king- 
dom situated in a valley among the Himalayas, and called 
Maurya, from the great number of its peacocks (Mayura). He 
was killed in resisting an invasion of his enemies, but his queen 
escaped to Pataliputra, where she gave birth to a son whom she 
exposed in the neighbourhood of a cattle shed. The child, like 
Oedipus, was found by a shepherd, who called him Chandragupta 
{Moon protected), and charged himself with his maintenance. 
There resided at that time in Pataliputra a Brahman who had 
come from the great city of Taxila in the Panjab, and whose name 
was Chanakya. To him King Dhanananda had given an insult 
which could be expiated by nothing short of his destruction. 
While the Brahman was casting about for means whereby he 
could clear his score with the offender, Chandragupta, now a boy, 
fell under his cognisance. Having discovered that he was of 
royal descent, and foreseen from his conduct among his com- 
panions that in after life he would be capable of great achieve- 
ments, he bought him from the shepherd and gave him a training 
adapted to make him a fit instrument for the execution of his 
designs. When Chandragupta had grown up, his master put 
under his command a body of troops kept secretly in his pay, and 
attempted a rebellion, which proved abortive. Chandragupta fled 
to the desert, but having ere long collected a fresh force he 
invaded Magadha from the border, that is, from the side of the 
Panjab. He captured city after city till the capital itself fell into 
his hands. The king was slain, and Chandragupta ascended the 
vacant throne. 



APPENDICES 409 

Another form of the native tradition assigns his paternity to 
Dhanananda (the last of the eight Nanda kings, who ruled in 
succession over Magadha), though not by his queen, but by a 
woman of low caste — a sudra called Mura. The Brahmans 
made this base-born scion of the royal house the instrument of 
their rebellious designs, and with the help of a northern prince, 
to whom they offered an accession of territory, raised him to the 
throne while he was yet a youth, and put Nanda and his eight 
sons to death. They did not make good their promise to their 
ally, but rid themselves of him by assassination. His son Malaya- 
ketu marched with a large army, in which were Yavanas (Greeks), 
to revenge his death, but returned without success to his country. 
It has been supposed that this expedition may have been the 
same as that of Seleukos. 

The Nanda dynasty which was supplanted by the Mauryan 
in 315 B.C. had succeeded to that of Sisunaga in 370 B.C. Its 
last member, whom the Greeks call Xandrames and Curtius 
Agramvies, is variously named in native writings Dhanananda, 
Nanda Mah&padnia, and Hiranyagupta. Xandramas (of which 
Agrammes seems to be a distorted form) transliterates the Sans- 
krit Chandramas, which means Moon-god. A Hindu play — the 
Mudra Rakshasa — produced early in the Mahommedan period 
refers to the revolution by which Chinakya raised Chandragupta 
to power, but is of no historical value. Chandragupta was suc- 
ceeded by his son Vindusara, who is called by Strabo Allitrochades, 
and by Athenaios (xiv. 67), 1 Amitrochates, a form which trans- 
literates the Sanskrit Amitraghata, a title by which he was 
frequently designated, and which means enemy-slayer. He was 
succeeded by his son As'oka in 270 B.C. 

Seleukos Nikator, one of Alexander's great generals who 
made himself king of Syria, was the son of Antiochos, an 
officer of high rank in the service of King Philip. Seleukos was 
distinguished for his great personal strength and courage, and 
when he accompanied Alexander into Asia held a command in 
the companion cavalry. He crossed the Hydasp&s with Alex- 
ander himself, and took an important part in the great battle 
which followed. At Sousa he was rewarded for his eminent services 
with the hand of Apama, an Asiatic princess, the daughter of 
Spitamenes. In the dissensions which broke out after Alexander's 
death among his generals, Seleukos sided with Perdikkas and 

1 The passage states that Amitro- replied : We shall send you the figs 

chates, the king of the Indians, wrote and the wine, but in Greece the laws 

to Antiochos asking that king to buy forbid a sophist to be sold. Athenaios 

and send him sweet wine, dried figs, quotes Heg&ander as his authority, 
and a sophist; and that Antiochos 



410 APPENDICES 

the cavalry against Meleager and the infantry, and was in con- 
sequence made Chiliarch of the companions, one of the highest 
offices, and one which Perdikkas himself had previously held. 
He accompanied Perdikkas into Egypt, but he there put himself 
at the head of the mutineers by whom his patron was assassinated. 
At the second partition of the provinces made at Triparadeisos 
321 B.C. he obtained the Babylonian satrapy, and established 
himself in Babylon. He assisted Antigonos in the war against 
Eumenes, but afterwards contended against him in alliance with 
Ptolemy. During an interval when hostilities were suspended 
between himself and his rivals, Seleukos undertook an expedition 
into India to regain the conquests of Alexander over which San- 
drokottos had established his authority. We do not know how 
far he advanced into India, but he probably again crossed the 
Hydaspes, which he had crossed twenty years before along with 
the great conqueror himself. The result of the expedition was a 
treaty by which Seleukos ceded to Sandrokottos his Indian pro- 
vinces and the regions west of the Indus, as far as the range of 
Paropanisos, in exchange for 500 elephants, and a marriage 
alliance by which the daughter of Seleukos became the bride of 
the Indian king. Immediately either before or after this expedi- 
tion, Seleukos in 306 B.C., following the examples of Antigonos 
and Ptolemy, formally assumed the regal title and diadem. In 
the battle of Ipsos 301 B.C., where Seleukos, in league with 
Ptolemy, Lysimachos, and Kassander, fought against Antigonos, 
the cavalry and elephants which the Syrian king brought into the 
field were mainly instrumental in securing the victory. The 
empire of Seleukos then became the most extensive of those 
which had been formed out of Alexander's conquests, extending 
from Phoenicia to Baktria and Sogdiana. After being engaged in 
other wars, Seleukos crossed the Hellespont with an army with a 
view to seize the crown of Macedonia, but was assassinated at 
Lysimachia by Ptolemy Keraunos in the beginning of the year 
280 B.C. in the thirty-second year of his reign. 

Sisikottos was an Indian who had deserted his countrymen 
and taken service under Bessos. After the conquest of Baktria 
he took service under Alexander, who, no doubt, obtained from 
him much valuable information regarding India and its affairs. 
After the capture of the rock Aornos, Sisikottos was left in com- 
mand of the garrison which Alexander established there. He 
afterwards sent messengers to inform Alexander that the Assa- 
kenians had revolted from him. 

Sitalkes was a leader of Thracian light-armed troops in 
Alexander's service. He was left under Parmenion in Media, 



APPENDICES , 4li 

and on Alexander's return from India was put to death for 
misgovemment. 

Solinus was the author of a compendium of geography 
extracted mostly from the Natural History of Pliny. He lived 
about the middle of the third century a.d. 

S6pheites or SdPEiTHES was, according to Curtius and 
Diodoros, king of a territory situated to the west of the Hyphasis. 
According to Arrian his dominions (or those of a king of the 
same name) lay along the banks of the Hydaspes, and, as we 
learn from Strabo, embraced the salt range of mountains called 
Oromenus by Pliny. With regard to the name, Lassen took it 
to represent the Sanskrit As'vapati, " lord of horses." M. Sylvain 
Levi, however, thinks this a fanciful identification of the two 
names, erring against Greek and against Sanskrit. He then says : 
" A drachma of Indian silver coined towards the end of the fourth 
century b.c. in imitation of Greek money bears the inscription 
2fl*YT0Y. The form Sophytes is, then, the only one to be 
considered. The laws of transcription established by numerous 
examples give the equivalents : w = 6 or aw, cj> = bh. Sophytes 
then leads back to Sobutha or Saubh. The Gana-patha knows 
precisely a country of the name of Saubhuta. Panini(IV. ii. 67 
sqq.) shows by examples how local names are formed. . . . The 
name of Samkala, etc., is formed in this way. M. Bhandarkar 
has already recognised in the city of Samkala the famous fortress 
of Sangala, . . but the Indian savant has not overcome the 
old prejudice which, regardless of the laws of transcription, 
identifies Sangala with Sakala, capital of the Madras (Lassen, 
Ind. Alt. i. 801). . . The identification firmly fixed of Sophytes 
and Saubhuta dissipates henceforward all doubts. Among the 
names classed in the Gana-patha under the rubric Samkala, etc., 
is found SubMta, which gives, in virtue of the rule stated, Sau- 
bMta as the name of a locality. Everything concurs in proving 
the correctness of our identification." 

Sphines. — See Kalanos. 

Spitakes is supposed to be the same as the Pittakos men- 
tioned by Polyainos. He was slain fighting on the side of Poros 
in the battle of the Hydaspes. His territories lay near that river. 

Spitamenes, the most formidable and persistent of all the 
chiefs who opposed Alexander in the regions of the Oxus and 
Jaxartes. 

Stasan6r, a distinguished officer in Alexander's army, was 
a native of Soloi in Cyprus. For services rendered during the 
Baktrian campaign he was appointed satrap of Areia and after- 
wards of Drangiana. In the first partition of the provinces after 



4 i2 APPENDICES 

Alexander's death he was confirmed in his satrapy; but in the 
partition made at Triparadeisos he received the more important 
government of Baktria and Sogdiana. He ruled his subjects 
with justice and moderation. He is not heard of in history after 
316 B.C. 

Stateira or Barsine, the daughter of Darius and wife of 
Alexander, was murdered after his death by Roxana with the 
consent of the regent Perdikkas. 

Stephanos of Byzantium was the author of a geographical 
lexicon, in which the names of some Indian towns occur. His 
date is uncertain, but may be referred to the sixth or seventh 
century of our aera. 

Strabo, the great geographer, was a native of Amasea in 
Pontos. He lived in the reign of Augustus, and during the first 
five years at least of Tiberius. 

Sibyrtios was appointed by Alexander on returning from 
India satrap of Karmania, and afterwards of Arachosia and 
Gedrosia in succession to Thoas. He was confirmed in his 
government in accordance with the first and the second partition 
of the provinces. He incurred the displeasure of Eumenes, and 
thereby secured the patronage of Antigonos. Megasthenes was 
his friend, and at one time resided with him. 

Taur6n was an officer in Alexander's army, who distinguished 
himself in the battle with Poros. 

Taxiles, whose personal name was Omphis, ruled a fertile 
territory between the Indus and Hydaspes, which had for its 
capital the great and flourishing city of Taxila. He was at feud 
with his neighbour, King Poros, and this probably determined 
him to send an embassy to Alexander while he was yet in Bak- 
tria, in the hopes of forming an alliance with him which would 
enable him to crush his powerful rival. He waited on Alexander 
before he had crossed the Indus, and when he reached Taxila 
entertained him and his army with the most liberal hospitality. 
After the defeat and submission of Poros, Alexander effected a 
reconciliation between the two princes. Taxilgs gave all the 
assistance in his power to help forward the construction and 
equipment of the fleet by which Alexander intended to convey 
a portion of his troops down the Hydaspes and the Indus to the 
ocean. For this service he was rewarded with an accession of 
territory. After the death of Alexander he was allowed to retain 
his power, which had been increased after the murder of the 
satrap Philip. Subsequently to the year 321 B.C. Eudemos 
seems to have exercised supreme authority in his province. We 



APPENDICES 413 

know nothing regarding Taxiles after that date. M. Sylvain 
Levi shows that the personal name of Taxiles is incorrectly 
given by Diodoros as Mophis instead of Omphis, which is the 
form in Curtius. He gives the reason thus : " The study of the 
words transcribed from the Indian languages into Greek proves 
that the corresponds to an a or to an in Sanskrit, while the 
<f, is the regular transcription of bh. Mophis gives therefore a 
Sanskrit Mobhi or Mabhi ; neither the one nor the other is met 
with in the texts ; they are both strangers to the language as well 
as to the history of India. But Ambhi presents itself in the Gana- 
patha, a genuine appendix to the Grammar of Panini." He then 
shows that Ambhi has been obtained from Ambhas in accordance 
with an established rule, and thus proceeds : " A double con- 
clusion unfolds itself — 1st, The dynasty which was reigning at 
Taks'as'ila. at the time of the Greek invasion was a family of 
Kshatriya descended from Ambhas, and designated by the 
patronymic Ambhi; 2nd, The dynasty Ambhi has disappeared 
with the Greek rule soon after the death of Alexander. The 
revolt of India has swept away without doubt these allies of the 
stranger. Before the end of the fourth century B.C., Chandragupta, 
founder of the Mauryan dynasty and king of the Prasyas, joined 
to his dominions the kingdoms of the basin of the Indus. Tak- 
s'as'ila became the residence of a Mauryan governor. The 
part played by the Ambhi does not appear to have been con- 
siderable enough to preserve their memory long ; the mention of 
them in the Gana-patha is the only known testimony to their 
existence. The Gana-patha, and, at the same time, the Grammar 
of Panini, which is inseparable from it, are then very probably 
contemporary with the Macedonian invasion.'''' He adds as a 
footnote, " The mention of the Yavanas (Greeks) and of the 
Yavanani (Greek writing) excludes the hypothesis of priority " 
(Ste/ournai Asiatique for 1890, pp. 234-236). 

Terioltes, called also Tyriaspes, was appointed satrap of 
the Paropamisadai, but was deposed, or, according to Curtius, 
put to death for misgovernment. His satrapy Alexander then 
gave to his father-in-law Oxyartes. 

Tlepolemos was appointed satrap of Karmania by Alexander 
on his return from India. 

Tyriaspes. — See Terioltes. 

VindusAra, the son of Sandrokottos. — See Sandrokottos. 
Xandrames, king of Magadha. — See Sandrokottos. 



INDICES 

I. GENERAL INDEX 
II. INDEX OF AUTHORITIES QUOTED OR REFERRED TO 



I. GENERAL INDEX 



N.B. — When a person or place is designated by two or more names more or less 
different, these names are generally given together. The modern names 
of ancient cities, rivers, etc., are bracketed in italics. Proper names 
which appear in one part of the text spelled after the Greek form, and 
in another after the Latin, will be found indexed under the Greek 
form ; hence names which commonly begin with C should be looked 
for under K. 



Abars or Sous, 344 

Abastanoi, 155, 252, 292-3 

Abisara {ffazdra), 375 

Abisares, 69, 76, 92, 112, 115, 129, 

202, 203, 216, 274, 278, 380, 402 
Abreas, 146-8, 150 
Abyla, 123 
Acacia, 171 
Acadira, 64 
Achaimenids, 31, 34 
Achilles, Achilleus, 15, 246, 286 
Adraistai, Adrestae, 116, 279, 323 
Adrapsa, 39 

Agalasseis, 232, 285, 324, 366-7 
Agalhokles, 371 
Agema, the Royal Escort, 20 
Aghor, river, 168 
Agrammes, Xandrames, 221-2, 281-2, 

407, 409, 413 
Agrianians, 20 passim 
Ahmedabad, 134 
Ahwaz, 262 

Aigina, Aegina, island of, 150 
Aigyptos, river. See Nile 
Airavati, river. See Hydraotes 
Aithiopians, 85, 132 
Ajanta, Caves of, 186 
Ajax, the elephant of Poros, 2 1 5 
Akbar, 407 
Akesines, Asiknl, Chandrabhaga 

Sandabala, river {Chenab). Its 

2 



source, and direction of its course, 
87, 88 ; its Vedic name, 93 ; de- 
scribed by Ptolemy Soter, 11 2-3; 
crossed by Alexander, 113, and re- 
crossed, 129-30, 284, 324; its 
turbulent confluence with the 
Hydaspes, 137-9 ; its confluence 
with the Indus, 155 ; the voyage 
down its stream, 350 
Aleimachos, 249 
Alexander Aigos, 50, 404 

a young Macedonian hero, 198-9 
King of Epeiros, 380 
the Great, his birth, education, 
and accession to the throne, 
15, 16 ; crosses into Asia, 
defeats the Persians in three 
great battles, and takes Baby- 
lon, Sousa, and Persepolis, 17- 
34 ; pursues and overtakes 
Darius, 34, 35 ; invades Hyr- 
kania, quells revolt of the 
Areians, crosses the Indian 
Kaukasos, reduces Baktria and 
Sogdiana and defeats the 
Skythians, 35-44; recrosses the 
Kaukasos, subdues the tribes 
of Northern Afghanistan, 
crosses the Indus, defeats 
Poros, subdues the Panjab and 
valley of the Indus, and returns 



4iS 



GENERAL INDEX 



by way of Gedrosia, Karmania, 
Persis and Sousis to Babylon, 
57-328 ; his death and char- 
acter, 47, 48 ; his personal 
appearance and habits, 48, 
49 ; his dress and arms, 147 ; 
wars of his successors, 49-53 ; 
general results of his eastern 
expedition, 3-5 ; list of his 
historians and estimate of their 
credibility, 6-15 
Alexandreia in Egypt, 27, 49, 80 

now Herat, 37 

Eschate, 41 

under Kaukasos, 39, 44, 58, 80, 

331-2 
near Mithankot, 253 
Alikasudara, Alexander, King of 

Epeiros, 374 
Alingar, river (Kow\ 61 
Alishang, river, 61 
Alketas, 50, 57, 68, 69, 97, 374, 

382 
Allahabad, 184 
Allitrochades, Vindusara, 383, 405, 

409 
Alor, 157, 165, 353-4 
Altars of Alexander on the Hyphasis, 

129, 215, 230, 234, 284, 311, 

348-50 
Amastris, 393 
Amazons, 42, 340 
Amb, 77 
Ambashtha, Sambastai, Abastanoi, 

155 
Ambiger, 356, 375 
Ambri, probably the Malloi, 324-5 
Amisea, birthplace of Strabo, 412 
Ammfin, an Egyptian deity identified 

by the Greeks with Zeus, 27, 49, 

135, 164, 282 
Amphipolis, 396, 404 
Amritsar, supposed by some to occupy 

the site of Sangala ; its name 

means " Pool of immortality," 348 
Amtikina, Antigonos Gonatas, 374 
Amyntas, 8, 58, 375-6 
Anabasis of Xenophon, 10 
Anamis, river (A/in/ifi), 397 
Anaximenes, 8 
Andaka, Andela, 62, 194 
Androsthenes, 8, 376 
Ankyra (.Inborn), 24 
Antigenes, 50, 104, 160, 209, 376 



Antigonos, 50, 51, 369, 375-6, 382- 
4. 3 8 S> 394. 398, 399. 400-1, 
406, 410, 412 

Gonatas, King of Macedonia, 52, 

376, 380 
DSson, 377 
Antiochos, a commander of the 
Hypaspists, 76 

father of Seleukos Nikator, 409 

I. surnamed Soter King of Syria, 

6. 377 

II. King of Syria, 52, 377, 380 

III. King of Syria, 52, 53 
Antipater, Regent of Macedonia, 19, 

5°. 377-8, 393, 394, 400, 402 
Antiyoka, Antiochos II., 52, 374 
Antoninus Pius, 9 
Antony, Mark, 253 
Ants, gold-digging, 85, 341-2 
Aornis. See Aornos, Rock of 
Aornos, a city of Baktria, 39 
Aornos, Rock of, 70-3, 76, 124, 197, 

271, 285, 322, 336-9, 410 
Apama, wife of Seleukos Nikator 

and mother of Antiochos Soter, 409 
Apelles, 49 
Apes, Indian, 277-8 
Aphrikes. See Eryx 
Apollodotos, 372 
Apollonios, 344, 349, 378 
Apollophanes, 169, 177, 378 
Arabios, Arabis, river (Purali), 167, 

168, 262, 397 
Arabitai, Arabites, 167, 262, 296 
Arachosia, 38, 88 passim 
Arachosians, 249, 262 
Aral, Sea of, 17, 41 
Aratrioi, 116 
Aratta, 406 
Araxes, river {Bund-Amir, the Bend- 

amcer of Moore), 33 
Arbela. See under Battle 
Areia, 36, 3S, 298, 411 
Archelaos, a geographer in Alex- 
ander's Expedition, S 
Argos, 124 
Argyraspides, the silver-shielded, 20, 

3^1. 376 
Aiiaspians, Euergetai, i.e. Benefactors, 

Aribes. Sec Arabitai 
Arigaion, 64 
Ariobarzanes, 33, 37S 
Arispai, 367 



GENERAL INDEX 



419 



Aristoboulos, 7, 44, 378 
Aristonous, 180, 240, 379 
Aristophylai, 58 
Aristotle, 15, 44, 379-80, 392 
Arjunayana, Agalassians, 367 
Armael, Armabil. See Harmatelia 
Armour, 20,000 suits of, received by 

Alexander, 231 
Arrhidaios, Alexander's half-brother, 

5° 

Arrhybas, 394 

Arrian, life of, 9-10 

Arrow, Indian, described as long and 
heavy, 210; Alexander wounded 
by one at Massaga, 195 ; and in 
the Mallian stronghold, 148, 239, 
289, 312, 325 ; Ptolemy wounded 
by one tipped with poison, 255-6, 
294-5, 3 2 ^ J tne kind used by 
Indian king in hunting, 1 89 

Arsakes, 129, 377, 380 

Arsinoe, mother of Ptolemy Soter, 
402-3 

Artabazos, 36, 39, 376, 380, 385, 

393. 395. 398, 403 

Artabios, river. See Arabios 

Artakoana, 36 

Artaxerxes III., 380 

Artemidoros, 380 

Artemision, 150 

Asikni, river. See Akesines 

Asklepiadai, 149 

Asklepios, Aesculapius, 380 

As'oka, king of Magadha, grandson of 
Chandragupta, 52, 187, 343, 374, 
376, 377. 380, 381, 404, 407, 409 
Inscription of, 372-3 

Aspasioi, war with the, 60-5, 333-4, 

339 

Ass, wild, 186-7 

Assacanus, 194 

Assakenoi, Assacani, defeat of the, 

6 5-6, 333-4 
Ast&s, 381 
Atari, 143, 352 

Athena, Minerva, 146, 200, 400 
Athenaios, 381 
Athenodoros, 247, 381 
Athens, 362, 363, 379, 384, 386, 

389 
Athos, Mount, 379 
Atlas, Mount, 123 

Attak, Attock, 72, 78, 84, 131, 343 
Attakenoi, 114 



Attalos, uncle of Kleopatra the wife of 

King Philip, Alexander's father, 

16, 17, 381 
Attalos, Commander of the Agrian- 

ians, 381 
Attalos, one of Alexander's great 

officers, 51, 57, 62, 64, 69, 98, 

160, 206, 375, 382 
Augustus, 11, 13, 15, 389, 412 
Aurengzeb, 254 
Austanes, 57 
Ayek, river, 141 

Babylon, 29, 31, 32, 47, 122, 325, 
3 2 7. 385, 388-9, 400, 402, 410 

Bacchus. See Dionysos 

Bahawalpur, 350 

Bahika, 350 

Baitian Mountains (Washati), 167, 
298 

Baiton, one of Alexander's Mensores, 
8, 33 1 . 345. 382 

Baktra (Balkh), 39, 41, 44, 58, 247 

Baktria, 34, 37 ; conquered by Alex- 
ander, 41-4; included in the 
dominions of Seleukos Nikator, 
410 ; made an independent king- 
dom by Theodotos, 477 ; coins of 
Graeco-Baktrian Kings, 370-1 

Balakros, 64, 200, 382 

Balarama, Indian Herakles, 70 

Balistai, engines for hurling missiles, 2 1 

Bambhra, 164 

Banpur, Bunpoor, 357 

Banyan-tree, Ficus Indica, 217 

Barber, Indian, 282 

Barce, 326 

Bargosa, Barygaza (Baroch), 389 

Battle of Arbela, 29, 150, 380, 393, 

395 

with the Aspasians, 65 

of Chaironeia, Chaeronea, 1 6 

of Chilian wala, 103 

of Gaugamela. See Arbela 

of the Granikos, 21-3, 150, 225, 

392, 395 

of the Hydaspes, 4, 100-10, 
203-14, 307-8, 345-6, 360-1, 

393, 395 

of Ipsos, 51, 376, 410 

of Issos, 25, 29, 30, 394, 395, 

402 
with the Kathaians, 1 16-9, 217- 

8, 279, 323 



420 



GENERAL INDEX 



Battle of Kounaxa, Cunaxa, 19 
of Kynoskephalai, 21 
with the Malloi, 145, 236 
of Meani, 30-1 
Barsine, Stateira, daughter of Darius, 

and wife of Alexander, 46, 382, 

398, 404 
Barzaentes, 37, 203, 382 
Bazar, 194. 335 
Bazaria {Bokhara!), 43 
Bazira, 67, 70-1, 335 
Beas, river. See Hyphasis 
Bean, the Egyptian, 131 
Begram, plain of, 332 
Beira, 194 
Bela, 356-7 
Beluchistan, 170 
Belus, temple of, 31 
Beryls, Indian, 220 
Bessos, Satrap of Baktria, 34, 35, 

36, 39-40, 41, 76, 150, 382-3, 

398, 410 
Bhakar, 160, 353, 354 
Bheranah, 116 
Bhimber, 366 
Bhira, Bheda, 136 
Bibasis, river. See Hyphasis 
Bidaspes, river. See Hydaspes 
Birds, Indian, which talk, 186 
Biton, 247-8 
Bokhara, 41 

Bolan Pass, 160, 354, 382, 393, 403 
Bolitai (Kabitlls), 158 
Bosporos, 90 
Boukephala, a city founded in honour 

of Alexander's favourite horse, no, 

130, 231, 277, 284, 309, 323 
Boukephalos, Boukephalas, Alex- 
ander's favourite horse, 101, no, 

in, 309, 323, 212 
Boumodos, river, 150 
Boxos, 185, 247-8 
Brahmanabad, 353, 355, 356 
Brachmans, Brahmans, 143, 159, 

160, 293, 306, 343, 358-9, 362, 

3°S, 378, 39 2 > 395 
Brahmaputra, river, 184, 367 
Branchidai, 282 
Bridge made over the Indus, 72, 7S, 

83, 90, 272 
Bridging of rivers, 90- 1 
Buddha, 408 
Buddhism, 381 
Buddhists, 359 



Bulls, Indian, 202 

Burindu, Parenos, river, 77, 339 

Burma, 187 

Byzantium (Constantinople), 379 

Caesar, 12, 13, 14, 214 

Calingae, 364 

Camp, Alexander's, on the Hydaspes, 

344-5 
Cedrosia. See Gedrosia 
Cerealis, a Roman General, 227 
Ceylon, 374 

Chachar. See Chuchpur 
Chaironeia. See under Battle 
Chanakya, 370, 408, 409 
Chandrabhaga, river. See Akesines 
Chandragupta, King of Palibothra. 

See Sandrokottos 
Chares, Cares, 7, 44, 383 
Charikar, 38, 331 
Chariots, war, 207 
Charus, a brave Macedonian youth, 

198, 199 
Chenab, river. See Akesines 
Chittral, 61 
Choarene, 160 
Choaspes, river, 61, 62, 64, 194, 

338 
Chremes, an Athenian Archon, no, 

273-4 
Chuchpflr, Chachar, 156, 293, 253 
Cicero, II 
Claudius, II, 395 
Cleochares, 92, 203 
Cleophis, Queen of Massaga, 194, 

196-7, 269, 322, 335, 383 
Clitarchos. See Kleitarchos 
Coins, Roman, 372 ; Indian, 201 
Colonies founded by Alexander, 5S 
Colonists, Baktrian, 2S9 
Comorin, Cape, 1S4 
Companion, Cavalry, 5" fassim 
Confluence of the Hydaspes and 

Akesines, 137-9. 233-4, 2S6 
of the Akesines and Hydrafites, 

155. 24?, 352 
of the united stream of the 

Panjab rivers (called the 

Akesines, now the Panjnad) 

with the Indus, 155 
of the Hyphasis with the Satlej, 

120-1, 349 
of the Hyphasis (Satlej?) with 

the Akesings, 155 



GENERAL INDEX 



421 



Constantine the Great, 408 

Corinth, Isthmus of, 150 

Cornelius, P., 274 

Cotton, 186, 188 

Crete, 386 

Crocodiles, 139 

Cuphetes, river, 323 

Curtius, Q. Rufus, life of, 10-12 

Cutch, a colouring matter, 171 

Cyprus, 27 

Cyropolis, 40 

Cyrus the Great, 17, 34, 38, 40, 46, 

86, 170, 173. 358 
Cyrus the Younger, 1 9 

Daedala, Daidala, 64, 194, 322, 

335 
Daedali Mountains (ML Dantalokl), 

64, 335 
Dahae, Dahans, 208, 225 
Daityas, 83 
Damascus, 26 
Damis, 344 

Dandamis. See Mandanes 
Dardai, 341 
Dardistan, 187 

Darius Hystaspes, divides his empire 
into satrapies, 18 ; copy of his seal, 
29 ; was paid tribute by the 
Arabitai and Oreitai, 167 
Kodomannos, state of the Persian 
empire at his accession to the 
throne, 18, 19; defeat of his 
army at the Granikos, 21, 22 ; 
at Issos, 24-6 ; his treasures 
and family seized at Damas- 
cus, his offers to Alexander 
rejected, 28 ; his defeat at 
Gaugamela, and flight to 
Arbela, 29-31 ; his flight from 
Ekbatana and assassination, 
34, 35 ; Arrian's estimate of 
his character, 35 ; his contrast 
to Poros, 108, 346 
Dataphemes, 39 
Dgimachos, 8, 383, 405 
Delta of the Indus, Patalene, 84, 
160, 352-3, 356 
of the Nile, 357 
Demetrios, one of the Somatophy- 
lakes, 38, 383, 403 

Son of Pythonax, 69, 98, 104, 

"4, 144, 3 6 °, 383 
Poliorketes, son of Antigonos, 



and King of Macedonia, 51, 
151, 376, 383, 400 

DemophSn, 236, 287 

Demosthenes, 16, 381 

Derbend, 77 

Desert east of the Indus, 221 

Dhanananda, 408 

Diamouna, river. See Iomanes 
(Jamnd) 

Debal, 169 

Dilawar, 97 

Dimachai, 21 

Dimoirites, Duplicarius, 146, 147 

Diodoros Sic, life of, 13-14 

Diodotos of Erythrai, 8 

Diogenes, 315, 391, 398 

Diognetos, 8, 331, 345 

Dionysopolis. See Nysa 

Dionysos, Bacchus, 5, 79, 80, 82, 
124, 136, 154, 179, 191, 192, 
226, 252, 265, 299, 317, 321, 

340, 351 
Dioskorides, 384 
Dioxippos, a famous Athenian athlete, 

249, 250-1, 290-2, 351 
Dir, 76 

Diridotis (Teredon), 397 
Doanas, river. See Dyardanes 
Dog and lion fight, 220-1, 280, 

363-4 
Dogs, Indian, 363-4 
Dorsanes, Indian Herakles, 70 
Doxares, 92 

Drachma, Greek silver coin, 372 
Drangiana (Seist&n), 37, 298, 411 
Dudhial, 345 
Drypatis, daughter of Darius and 

wife of Hephaistion, 386 
Dyades, 196 
Dyardanes, river (Brahmaputra ? ) 

184 
Dyrta, 76 

Edom, 186 

Ekbatana, capital of Media (Rama- 
dan), 30, 34, 47, 126, 362, 384, 
385, 386, 392 

Elam, Mount, Ram Takht, 338-9 

Elburz Mountains, 35 

Elephants, presented to Alexander by 
Taxiles, 58; by Abisares, 112; 
objects of terror to horses, 96 ; 
part played by them in the battle 
of the Hydaspes, 103-6, 208-13, 



422 



GENERAL INDEX 



274-5, 3°8 ; Sandrokottos gives 
five hundred to Seleukos Nikator 
in exchange for the Panjab and 
territories west of the Indus, 410 

Embolima, 72, 200, 336-7 

Emodoi Mountains {Him&layas), 131 

Enotokoitai, a fabulous race, 405 

Eordaia, 399 

Ephemerides {Daily Gazette), 7, 384 

Epiktetos, 9, 384 

Erannoboas, river {Son), 187, 407 

Eratosthenes, 384 

Erix, Eryx, Aphrikes, 77, 200, 272, 
378 

Erythrae, 341 % 

Erythraian Sea, 13, 183, 185 

Erythrus, 185 

Etymander, river {Helmund), 38, 
184 

Euaspla, Choaspes, river, 62 

Eudemos, 45, 177, 384, 406, 412 

Eudoxos, 188 

Euergetai. See Ariaspians 

Eukratides, 343, 344 

Eumenes, Alexander's secretary, 7, 
8, 50, 51, 119, 218, 369, 375, 
376, 380-5, 393, 398-401, 406, 
410, 412 

Euphrates, river, 24, 29, 47, 88, 91, 
123, 262, 296, 301 

Euryalus, 198 

Euthydemos, 53 

Ficus Indica. See Banyan-tree 
Firuzabad, 169 

Gadeira {Cadiz), 123 
Gadrosoi. See Gedrosioi 
Gandhara, 59, 62, 333, 364, 399 
Gandaridai, 279, 323 
Gandaris, 112, 133, 134 
Gangaridae (Gonghris), 221, 281, 283, 

3io, 364-5 
Gange, 365 

Ganges, river, 12, 13, 84, 123, 183, 
184, 221, 234-5/310, 349, 353, 
367, 393, 407 
Gates, Amanian, 25 
Kaspian, 34, 122 
Kilikian, 223 

Persian {Kalch Safcd), 33, 37S 
Syrian, 24 
Gaugamcla. See under Battle 



Gaza, 27, 400 

Gedrosioi, 169, 171-2, 175, 179, 

180, 262-4, 2 96, 298, 317, 401, 

412 
Gesteani. See Kathaians 
Ghara, river, 162 
Ghori, tribes of, 66 
Girnar, 374 

Glaukias, murderer of Roxana, 404 
Glausai, Glaukanikoi, III 
Gods, Indian, 191 
Gold, 187, 341-2 
Gordian knot, 24 
Gordion, Gordium, 24 
Gorgias, 59, 98, 385 
Gorys or Gorydale, 61, 62 
Gouraios, river {Panjkora), 60, 66 
Granikos, river. See under Battle 
Griffins, Gryphons, 85 
Gundulbar, 134 
Gymnosophists. See Philosophers 

Hadrian, 9 

Hages, 207 

Haidarabad, Patala, 84, 165, 167, 

353. 355-7, 396 

Halikarnassos, 23 

Hannibal, 23, 100, 237 

Harapa, 141 

Harmatelia, 256, 294-5, 355 

Harpalos, cousin of Alexander, 230, 
379, 385-6, 396 

Hasan Abdal, 342 

Hashtnagar, 59, 339, 342 

Haur. See Ora 

Hegelochos, admiral of Alexander's 
fleet in the Aegean Sea, 28 

Hegemon, an Athenian Archon, 95, 
no, 214 

Hekataios, 386 

Hekatompylos {Dai/iag/ian}), 35, 36 

Helikon, a Rhodian artificer, 147 

Heliokles, 371 

Hellespont, 90, 122. 410 

Helmund, river. See Etymander 

Henry IV. of France, 246 

Hephaistion, 3S, 45, 47, 59, 60, 71, 
7S, S3, 98, 114, 121, 129, 133, 
136, 137, 139, 161, 162, 167-9, 
180, 191, 201, 202, 209, 262, 
279, 2S1, 2S5, 3S1, 385, 386, 

392-3 
HOraklcs, Hercules, 5, 15, 28, 70, 
71, S2, 124, 135, 191, 197, 208, 



GENERAL INDEX 



423 



226, 232, 271, 285, 290, 322, 

34i» 3 66 
He'rakles, son of Alexander by Barsin£, 

398, 402 
Herakon, 178, 386 
Herat, 37, 298 
Hermes, 356 

Hermolaos, 44, 246, 403 
Hermos, river, 89 
Herodotos, 18, 70 
Hesidrus, river. See Satlej 
Hiacensanae. See Agalassi 
Hieronymos, 7 
Hieropolis, 3S4 
Hindu-Kush Mountains, 407 
Himyar, 185 
Hingul, river, 169 
Hippasioi. See Aspasioi 
Hiranyagupta, 409 
Hoplites, 60 
Horratas, Horatus, Koragos, 249-51, 

290-2, 390-3, 351 
Houpian, Opiane, 332 
Hydaspes, river, Vitasta, Bedasta (Jhi- 

lam, Jheluni), 84, 88, 92-5, 129- 

39, 202, 204, 229, 230, 345-6, 

350, 396, 400, 409, 412 
Hydraotes, river {Ravi), 84, 88, 114, 

115. 120, 129, 141, 144, 154, 155, 

217, 232, 347, 352, 401 
Hylobioi, Indian ascetics of the woods, 

35^.368 
Hypanis, river. See Hyphasis 
Hypaspists, 20, 60 passim 
Hyphasis, river, Hypanis Vipasa (Seas 

Beias), 88, 112, 114, 120, 121, 126, 

129, 155, 221, 281, 345, 347-8, 

401, 411 
Hyrkania, 35, 124, 401 
Hyrkanian Sea (the Kaspian), 87, 

122-3 
Hwen Thsiang, a Chinese pilgrim, 

168 

I ARCH AS, 378 

Ichthyopnagoi, 169, 171, 172, 180, 

262-3, 298, 316, 397 
Ida, Mount, 21 

Ilion, Troy, 23, 146, 148, 401 
Illyrians, 20, 124, 245 
India, general description of, 85-6, 

183-191 
Indika, Arrian's, 10, 86 

of Megasthenes, 10, 407-8 



Indus, river, sources of, 84 ; its breadth, 
8S, 155; its length, 161, 231 ; its 
bifurcation, 162; changes of its 
course, 157,158-9, 353; its mouths, 
164-6, 191, 257-61; its tides, 163, 
258-61, 367 ; its resemblance to 
the Nile, 132 

Infanticide, practised in the Panjab, 
219, 280, 347 

Interment of the dead, curious mode 
of, among the Oreitai, 297 

Iomanes, river, Yamuna (Jamn&), 93, 
184 

Ionia, 23, 122 

Istros, river (Danube), 90 

Ivy, 80, 82, 193 

JalAlAbad, 61, 62, 333, 338 
Jalalpur, 94, 97, no, 129, 344, 345, 

349 
Jaxartes, river, 40, 41, 86, 88, 122, 

245, 411 
Jhilam, Jhelum, a town, 94, 97, 129, 

344, 345 

river. See Hydasp6s 
Johiyas. See Ossadioi 
Juno, 135 

Kabul, river, 3, 323 
Kach Gandava, 157, 354 
Kachh, Gulf of, 221 

Ran of, 165, 353 
Kafiristan, 61, 332-3 
Kafirs, 340 
Kaikeyas, 349, 363 
Kaikos, river, 89 
Kailasa, Mount, 84 
Kalaka Serai, 342 
Kalama, 316 

Kalanos, 46, 301, 315, 343, 386-92 
Kallisthenes, 8, 44, 58, 379, 380, 

392 
Kalpe" (Rock of Gibraltar), 123 
Kalsi, 374 _ 
Kambistholi, 114 
Kambyses, 403 
Kandahar, 38, 112 
Kanishka, 344, 392 
Kanoje, Kanyakubja, 366 
Kappadokia, 9, 24, 122 
Karachi, 164, 167, 262, 297, 396 
Karchedon (Carthage), 127 
Kardia, 7 
Karians, 132 



424 



GENERAL INDEX 



Karmania, 45, 160, 169, 179, 180, 

397, 412. 413 
Kartaz6n, Unicorn, 186-7 
Karun, river, 262, 397 
Kashmir, 69, III, 112 
Kaspatyros, 341 
Kassander, 51, 379, 394, 398, 402, 

404, 410 
Kassandreia, 378 
Katanes, 57 

Katapeltai {Catapults), 21 
Kathaia, 133, 347, 369 
Kathaians, 115, 279, 323, 406 
Kathiawar, 347 
Kaukasos, Mount, 58, 83, 84, 87, 88, 

95, 122, 131, 183 
Kaystros, river, 89 
Kedj, 357 

Kekaya, Kekeoi. See Kaikeyas 
Kelainai, Caelaenae, 23 
Kerkion (Maina ?), 1 86 
Keteus, 369 

Khaiber Pass, 59, 60, 385 
Khoes, river (/Cow), 61 
Khojent, 40 

Khorasmians, King of the, 42 
KhoriSnes, 44, 59 
Kijil, 39 

Kilikia, Cilicia, 24-6, 223, 384 
Killouta. See Skilloustis 
Kleander, 178, 392 
Kleisobara, 184 
Kleitarchos, Clitarchus, 8, 11 
Kleitos, 22, 38, 43, 59, 98, 116, 140, 

203, 380, 386, 392-3 
Kleopatra, Alexander's half-sister, 394 

Queen of Egypt, 253, 403 
Knidos, 149, 3S0 
K6a, river (Kabul R.), 6 1 
Koinos, Coemis, 98, 104, 105, 113, 

114, 125, 127, 128, 133, 194,200, 

209, 227, 229, 230, 360, 393 
KSphes, Kophen, river (Kabul), 43, 

59, 61, 62, 66, 69, 70, 72, 73, 78, 
_ 79. 93. 323. 334. 338, 339, 364 
Koragos. See Honatas 
Kori, river, 165 
Kos, island of, 149, 241, 380 
Kos Meropis, 1 1 2 
Kot Kamalia, 141 
Krateros, 35, 36, 42, 44, 45, 47, 

50, 57, 62, 64, 66, 97, 9S, 102, 

107, in, 114, 133. 136, 137. 130, 

157, 158, 160, 177, 191, 102,205, 



243, 252, 285, 354, 375-6, 382, 

393. 400, 402 
Kretheus, 172 
Krishna, 355 
Kritoboulos, 241 
Kritodemos, 149, 241 
Kshatri. See Xathroi 
Kshatriya caste, 347, 401 
Kunar, river. See Choaspes 
Kydnos, Cydnus, river, 24 
Kynane, Alexander's half-sister, 375 
Kyrene, 28, 384 
Kyrsilos, 8, 393 
Kyzikos, Cyzicus, 21 

Lagos, reputed father of Ptolemy 

Soter, 403 passim 
Lahore, 114, 161, 348 
Lampsakos, 8 
Landai, river, 59, 66, 72 
Laodike, 377 
Larissa, 8 
Larkhana, 158 
Leonidas, one of Alexander's tutors, 

IS 
Leonnatos, 51, 61, 64, 65, 146, 147, 
148, 150, 162, 166, 169, 179, 209, 
240, 261-2, 264, 297, 299, 394, 397, 

399 

Libya, 122, 123 

Limnaios, 312 

Livy, 12 

Lizards, 339 

Lydia, 122 

Lykia, 23, 122 

Lysimachia, 410 

Lysimachos, one of Alexander's tutors, 
afterwards King of Thrace, 15, 50, 
51, 98, 119, 1S0, 3SS, 394, 410 

Lysippos, 49 

Maedi, 245 

Magadha (BihAr), 365-6, 3S0, 404-8 

Magas, 52, 374, 3S0 

Mahaban, Mount. Set Aornos 

Mahorta, 15S 

Maiandros, Macander, river, 23, 89 

Maiotic, Lake (Sea of Azof ), 87 

Malan, Cape, 16S 

Malayakctu, 409 

Malloi (People of MiiltAn), 4, 1 1 5, 

137, 130, 140, 144, 149, 154. 

170, 234, 236-40, 311, 350, 400 
Manchur, Lake, 355 



GENERAL INDEX 



42 5 



Mandanes, Dandamis, head of the 
Gymnosophists, 315, 386, 391 

Manikyala, 344 

Mansura, 355 

Marakanda (Samarcand), 40, 41, 43 

Marcus Aurelius, 9 

Mardians of Persis, 34 
of Hyrkania, 36 

Mardonios, 16 

Mare6tis, Lake, 27 

Marginia (Marginan), 42 

Marius, Roman Consul, 241 

Markianos, Marcian, 380 

Mar-Koh. See Meros 

Mars, God of War, 290 

Marsyas, river, 23 

Marsyas, a Pellaian educated with 
Alexander, 379 

Masianoi (People of Massaga ?), 339 

Massaga, Massaka, Masoka, Mazaga, 
66, 67, 71, 194, 269, 306, 334, 

338-9. 375 
Maurya, 408 

Medos, river (Polvar), 33 
Megasfhenes, 394-5, 405, 407 
Mekran, 170, 357, 397 
Mela, Pomponius, 395 
Meleager, 51, 58, 59, 98, 160, 203, 

395, 410 
Memnon the Rhodian, 21, 23, 28, 

230, 264, 395, 398 
Memphis, 27, 28, 31, 49, 282 
Menander, a Graeko-Baktrian king, 

332 
Menelaos, 89 
Mentor, brother of Memnon the 

Rhodian, 395 
Mercenaries, Indian, 269-70, 306 
Meroes, 108, 109 
Meros, Mount, 80, 81, 193, 338-9, 

340 
Meshed, capital of Khorasan, 36, 

298 
Meta, 197 

Methora (Muttra), 184 
Midas, 24 
Mieza, 400 

MilStos, 23, 89, 172, 386 
Minerva. See Athena 
Mithankot, 156, 253, 293 
Mitylene, 7, 384 
Moeres, Moeris, 256, 357 
Moghsis, 157 
Mong. See Nikaia 



Monsoon, 164, 166, 167, 396 
Mounychion, an Athenian month, 95, 

no 
Mousikanos, 157, 158, 160, 217, 253, 

293 a > 356, 395. 399. 4°°. 404 
Mudra Rakshasa, a Hindu drama, 409 
Miiller, Professor Max, 359 
Mullinus, Eumenes (?), 197, 248-9, 

395 
Multan, 114, 139, 143, 161, 353, 

35 2 
Mura, 409 

Mushti Mountains (Washati), 357 
Muttari, 165 
Mykale, Mount, 87 
Myrrh-trees, 170 

Nanda, 409 

Nandrus, 327, 405-6 

NangniMr, Nanghenhar, 333, 338 

Napoleon, 24, 32 

Narayanasaras, a lake at the mouth of 
the Indus, 166, 261 

Nard, 170 

Naukratis, 381 

Nautaka {Kurshee or Kesh), 43 

Nearchos, 7, 10, 45, 46, 50, 76, 
86, 87, 123, 134, 139, 164, 165, 
185, 186, 261-3, 296, 300, 316, 

376, 379, 3 8 5. 394-8 
Neko, 123 
Neoritae, 168 
Nerbada, river, 367 
Nero, 384 
Neudros, river, 114 
Nikaia {Mong), no, 130, 134, 161, 

231, 284, 323, 332, 344, 350, 398 
Nikanor, 58, 72 
Nikome'deia (Ismiknid), birthplace of 

Arrian, 9 
Nile, river, 27, 89, 131, 123 
Nora, 197 
Numidia, 123 
Nysa, 79, 8:, 124, 133, 192, 194, 

3°5. 32i, 338-40 
Nysatta, 339 

Oarakta, Island of (Kishm), 185 

Oasis, Libyan, 135 

Ochos, a Persian King, 46 

Ochos, river (Aisou), 42 

Oidipous, Oedipus, 408 

Ohind, 78, 337 

Olympias, mother of Alexander, 15, 



426 



GENERAL INDEX 



5i» 132. '35. 247, 377-9, 381, 

385, 398 
Olynthos, 8, 392 
Omphis, Mophis. See Taxiles 
Onesikritos, 315-6, 134, 261, 379, 398 
Opian6 (Houpi&ii), 331 
Ora {HaurT), 69, 71, 169, 173, 180, 

37S 
Ordanes, 178 
Oreitai, 167-9, 2 56, 262, 264, 296-7, 

316, 394, 397 
Orestis, 180, 393, 400 
Orobatis (Arabutti), 72 
Oromenus, Mount, the Salt range, 93, 

94, 134, 156, 411 
Orosius, 398 

Ortospanum (Kabul), 58, 33 1, 338 
Orxines, 45, 46 
Oryx, 187 

Ossadioi, Yaudheya, Johiyas, 156, 252 
Ouxians, Uxians, no, in 
Ouxian Pass (near Bebehan), 33 
Oxus, river (Amu darya), 39, 41, 411 
Oxyartes, father of Roxana, one of 

Alexander's wives, 42, 44, 156, 

157, 253, 398, 404, 412 
Oxydrakai, 137, 149, 154, 234, 236, 

248-9, 287, 324-5 
Oxykanos, Porticanus, 158, 253-4, 293 
Ozines, 264 

Pages, Royal, 19S 

conspiracy of the, 44, 58, 392 
Paionians, Paeonians, 20 
Paktyik£, 341 
Palestine, 27 
Palibothra, Palimbothra, Pataliputra 

(Pdtnd), 8, 71, 187, 366, 405, 407, 

408 
Pallakopas, river, 397 
Pamphylia, 122 
Pandaia, daughter of Indian Herakles, 

a 7° 
Panini, the great Indian grammarian, 

399 • 
Panjnad, river, 155 
PanjshJr, river, 39, 61, 70 
Paper, 186 
Paphlagonia, 24, 122 
Papyrus, 186 

Paraitakai, 43, 44, 57, 375 
Paraitonion, Paraetonium, 2S 
Parmenion, 24-6, 29, 30, 34, 37, 

178, 393, 399. 410 



Paropamisadai, 58, 59, 82, 83, 253, 

399, 413 
Paropamisos, Paropanisos, Mountains 

of, 38, 58, 82, 87, 410 
Parrots, 186 
Parsioi, 58 
Parthalis, 364 

Parthyaia, Parthia, 298, 401 
Parysatis, said to have been wife of 

Alexander, 46 
Pasargadai, 34, 45, 123 
Pasitigris, Karun, river, 397 
Patala (Haidarab&d), 84, 161, 162, 

165-7, 256, 261, 356-7, 396 
Patalene, Indus Delta, 161, 357 
Pataliputra. See Palibothra 
Patna. See Palibothra 
Patrokles, 8, 399 
Paurava, 402 
Pausanias, 399 

Peacocks, Indian, 217, 362-3, 407 
Pearls, 188 
Peithon, son of Agenor, 157, 159, 

160, 161, 165, 385, 399, 400, 402 
Peithon, son of Krateuas, 50, 140, 

143, H4, 180, 399 
Pella, birthplace of Alexander, 15, 

379, 394 
Pellaians, 180 
Peloponnesos, 124 
Pelusium, 27 
Perdikkas, 50, 57, 59, 71, 78, 98, 

99, 116, 140, 141, 145-6, 149, 

352, 375-9, 3S2-5, 395, 399, 4°o- 

402, 404, 409, 410, 412 
Perikl&, 363 
Petronius, 1 1 
Peukelaotis (Has/itnagar), 59, 60, 72, 

33'. 342, 381 
Peukestas, 46, 50, 51, 146-8, 150, 

179, 180, 239, 312, 3S2, 394, 400 
Perinthos, 375 

Persepolis, 33, 45, 123, 37S, 3SS 
Perseus, 28, 135 
Persian Gulf, 87, 123 
Persians, defeat of, by the Skythians, 

86 
Persis, 122, 179, 3S6, 397 
Peshawar, 59, 72 
Phalanx, how organised and equipped, 

19-20 
Pharasii. See Prasioi 
Pharnabazos, 28 
Pharsalos, S, 393 



GENERAL INDEX 



427 



Phegelas, Phegeus, 121, 221, 281, 

365, 401 
Philip, King of Macedonia and father 

of Alexander, 15, 212, 241, 246, 

3 2 3. 379. 394. 396, 400, 402-3, 

409 
Philippos, Philip, one of Alexander's 

great generals, 45, 65, 72, 92, 112, 

133. !3 6 . 139. 154. 155. 177, 309. 

384, 401, 412 
Philosophers, Indian, 190, 306,313-4, 

358-9, 368-9 
Philostratos, 378 
Philotas, 37, 65, 198, 382, 383, 386, 

398, 403 
Phokion, Phocion, 402 
Phraortes, 378 

Phrataphernes, 112, 178, 264, 401 
Phrygia, 23 
Phuleli, river, 165 
Phylarchos, 405 
Pillars of Hercules, 123 
Pimprama, 116, 217 
Pinaros, river, 25 
Pipal tree, 191 
Pipilika, 341 
Pisidia, 23 
Pittakos, 411 
Plato, 368, 379 
Pliny, 411 

Plutarch, life of, 12-3 
Polyainos, 402 
Polykleitos, 8, 402 
Polysperchon, Polyperchon, 50, 57, 

97. 139, 3 2 5. 197, 385, 393. 402 
Polytimetos, river (Kohik), 40, 41 
Pontos, 83 

P&ros, Porus, 4, 13, 92, no, 112- 

5, 120, 129, 133, 202-13, 216, 

222, 231, 274-6, 282, 322, 365, 

386, 393, 400, 401, 405, 406, 412 

nephew of, 112, 114, 133, 279 

son of, 101, 102, 107 

an Indian king who sent an 

embassy to Augustus Caesar, 

389 
Portikanos. See Oxykanos 
Poseidon, 164 
Postumius, A., 274 
Potidaia, Kassandreia, 7 
Poura, 123, 172, 177, 357-8 
Praesti, 158, 253 

Prasioi, Praisioi, 13, 221, 281, 310, 
323, 36S, 349 



Prasiane, 159 

Precious stones, Indian, 188 

Presidae. See Prasioi 

Promachos, 389 

Prometheus, 82, 83 

Prophthasia (Furrah), 37, 38 

Propontis (Sea of Marmora), 21 

Psiltoukis. See Skilloustis 

Ptolemy, son of Lagos, surnamed 
Soter, King of Egypt, 7, 11, 
38, 40, 46, 5°, 5i. 61, 63-5, 73, 
99. "2, 117, 139. 151. 168, 180, 
194, 205-6, 209, 244, 255, 262, 
295, 296-7, 355, 378-9, 380-5, 
388, 394, 39°. 399. 400, 402-3, 
410 

II. Philadelphos, 49, 377, 403 

III. Euergetes, 52, 380, 384, 
403 

VI. Philome'tor, 404 

VII. Physkon, 188, 404 
Keraunos, son of Ptolemy Soter, 

and King of Macedonia, 410 
Purali, river, 167 
Pyramids of Egypt, 27 
Pythagoras, 315, 391 
Pythia, 282 

Raja Hodi, fort of, 337 
Rajapatba, Royal road, 93, 349 
Rajputs, 350, 354 
Rama, 168, 340 
Ramayana, 168 
Rambakia, 1 68 
Ranigat, 337 

Ravi, river. See Hydraotes 
Rawal Pindi, 344 
Red Sea, 183, 185-6 
Rhagai, 34 

Rhenos, river (Reno), 90 
Rhine, river, 90 
Rhinoceros, 186, 187 
Rhodians, 147 
Rhone, river, 100 
Rhotas, 94, 344 

Roxana, wife of Alexander, 42, 50, 
156, 382, 398, 400, 404, 412 

Sabagrae. See Sabarcae 
Sabarcae, 155, 252 
Sabbos. See Sambus 
Sainte-Croix, 10, 13 
Sakabda, 392 



428 



GENERAL INDEX 



Sakala, 411, 347 

Salamis, 150 

Salatura, 399 

Salt Hills. See Oromenus 

Salmous, 300 

Samaxus, 203 

Sambastai. See Abastanoi 

Samkala (Sangala), 348, 411 

Samudragupta, 351, 367 

Sandabala (Sandabaga?), river. See 
Akesines 

Sandrokottos, Androkottos, Sandro- 
koptos, Chandragupta, 4, 8, 15, 
S3, 88, 187, 310, 327-8, 365, 380, 
384, 386, 395, 399, 404-9, 410 

Sangala, 4, 115-20, 217-8, 347-8, 
394. 406 

Sanggaios, 60 

Sanglawala-Tiba, 348 

Saranges, river, 114 

Sarasvati, river (Sursooty), 184, 365 

Sardis, 23 

Sarissa, the long pike of the Mace- 
donians, 19, 250 

Sarmans, S'ramanas, 358-9, 368, 389 

Satibarzanes, 36, 38 

Satlej, river, S'atadru, Zaradros, Hesy- 
drus, 4, 120, 121, 155, 231, 349 

Satrap, Kshatrapa, 18 

Saubhuta, Realm of S6phyt6s, 348 

Sehwan. See Sindimana 

Seistan, 160 

Seleukos Nikator, King of Syria, 6, 
8, 50-2, 99, 100, 104, 133, 310, 

327, 377, 38S, 394, 399, 4°4, 405, 

407, 409-10 
Semiramis, a mythical Queen of 

Assyria, 170, 173, 246, 358 
Septagen, 186 
Seplimius Severus, 10 
Serpents, Indian, 217, 361-2 
Shiraz, 33 
Shoes, what kind of, worn by Indians, 

188 
Shorekfit, 139, 141 
Siboi, Sibi, 139, 232, 285, 2S6, 324, 

366 
Sibyrtios, Tibyrtios, 8S, 177, 264, 

412 
Sigambri. See Oxydiakai 
Silei. See Sibi 
Silphium, 39 
Silver, 187, 371 
Simoeis, river, 2S6 



Sindh, 352-4, 402 

Sindimana (Sehwan), 254-5, 354-5, 

404 
Sisikottos, Sisocostus, 76, 102, 200, 

410 
Sisunaga, 409 
Sitalkes, 178, 410-11 
S'iva, 70 

Skamander, river, 286 
Skilloustis, Killouta, 164, 316 
Skylax, 132 

Skythians, 122-4, 2 °8, 226-7 
Smyrna, 89 
Sogdiana, 39 
Sogdians, 225 

Sogdoi, Sodrai, Seorai, 157, 293, 354 
Sokrates, 9, 315, 391 
Solinus, 4, 1 1 
Soloi, 411 
Soma, 190 
Somatophylakes, Alexander's select 

body-guard, names of the, 179, 180 
Son, river. See Erannoboas 
Sonmiyani, Bay of, 167 
Sopeithes, Sopithes, Sophytes, 133, 

134, 187, 219, 220-1, 279, 280-1, 

348, 349, 4li 
Sophagasenos, 53 
Souastos, river, 59, 61, 334, 335 
Sourasenoi, 1S4 
Sousa, 32, 45, 178, 301, 385, 386, 

393, 394, 400, 4°i, 4°3, 409 
Sousia (Sous), 36 
Sousis, Sousiana, 397 
Sparta, 1 6, 296 
Sphines. See Kalanos 
Spitakes, Pittacus, 107, 411 
Spitamenes, 39, 40-3, 379, 409, 411 
S'ramanas. See Sarmans 
Stadium, length of, 71 
Stageira, 379 
Stateira, daughter of Darius, and wife 



of Alexander, 



3S6, 412 



Stathmos, S 
Stephanos of Byzantium, 412 
Strabo, 412 
Stymphalia, 3S2 
Sudracae. .S.v Oxydiakai 
Sudras, 351, 354, 4°9 
Suicide, practice of, in India, 190, 306 
Suniuni, 150 
Sunit, 254 

Sutlee, Sat!, custom of, 219, 279, 
347, 369 



GENERAL INDEX 



429 



Sw&t, river. See Souastos 
Sword-blades of Indian steel, 252 
Syrakousai. See Oxydrakai 
Syria, 26 and passim 
Syria, Hollow, 122 

TabranAlS. See Tiberoboam 

Tapeirians, people of Taburistdn, 35 

Taproban£, Ceylon, 187, 372-4, 398 

Tauala, Patala, 296 

Tauron, 100, 104, 209, 412 

Tauros, Mount, 23, 24, 58, 87, 88, 
398 

Taxila, 44, S3, 92, 107, 126, 215, 
285, 342-4 

Taxiles, Omphis, Mfiphis, 45, 58, 59, 
72, 83, 92, 93, 108, 112, 177, 
201-3, 212, 231, 273, 305-6, 361, 
365. 371, 378, 383, 384> 386, 
39°. 398, 4°i. 4°2, 406, 412 

Telephos, 172 

Terioltes. See Tyriaspes 

Tethys, ocean goddess, 216 

Thapsakos, 29 

Thasos, 8 

Thatha, Deval, 356-7 

Thebes, in Boiotia, 17, 124, 400 

Theodotos, Diodotos, 52, 377 

Theophilos, 147 

Theophrastos, 379 

Thessalians, 20, 126 

Thbas, 171, 177, 412 

Thracians, 20, 124, 156, 245 

Thriamboi, Triumphi, 179 

Tiberius, 412 

Tiberoboam, river, 342-3 

Tibyrtios. See Sibyrtios 

Tides, Indian rivers, how affected by, 
163, 256-61 

Tigris, river, 29, 45, 88, 91, 123, 
180, 367-8, 397 

Tilla, 94 

Tiniaeus, 240 

Timagenes, 1 1 

Timour, 40, 43, 261 

Tiryns, 124 

Tlepolemos, 177, 413 

Tmolos, Mount, 79 

Tomyris, Queen of the Skythians, 86 

Towers, movable, 196 

Trajan, 13 

Triballians, 124 

Triparadeisos, 50, 412 



Tragus, 15 

Tulamba, 141 

Tyre, 26-9, 68 

Tyriaspes, 58, 112, 157, 252 

Uchh, 121, 156, 351, 352 
Umritsar. See Amritsar 
Unicorn, 186, 187 
Uras'a, 129 
Utica, 127 

Vasati. See Ossadioi 

Vaugelas, 12 

Velleius, I 1 

Vespasian, 10 

Vindusira, Allitrochades, 343, 349, 

380^409, 413 
Vipas'a. See Hyphasis 
Vishnu, 70 
Vitasta. See Hydaspes 

WazIrabSd, 129 

Weber, Professor, 129 

Wells, dug by Alexander's orders, 261 

Whales, 298, 300 

Whip-snakes, 278 

Wine, 190 

Wives, how selected, in the kingdom 
of Sophytes, 280 

Writing, material used for, 186 ; art 
of, known in India before Alex- 
ander's time, ibid. 

Xandrames. See Agrammes 
Xathroi, Kshatriya, 147, 156, 252 
Xenippa, 43 
Xenophon, 9, 12 
Xerxes, 16, 33, 90, 282 
Xylenopolis, 316 

Yamuna, river. See Iomanes 
Yaudheyas. See Ossadioi 
Yavana, Greeks, 122, 374, 409, 413 
Yemen, 185 
Yusufzai, 61, 334 

Zadrakarta (Sari?), 26 
Zagros, Mount, 33 
Zaradros, river. See Satlej 
Zariaspa, Baktra (?), 40, 41, 42, 264, 

383 
Zarmanochegas, Sarmanacharya, 389 
Zarrah, Lake, 160, 184 



II. INDEX OF AUTHORITIES QUOTED OR 
REFERRED TO 



Abbott, General, 59, 77, 83, 194, 

333. 335. 336. 338, 344 
Agatharchides, 185, 263 
Ailianos, Aelian, 7, 186, 190, 217, 

224, 249, 263, 361, 362, 363, 365 
Aischylos, 87, 153 
Appian, 404 
Aristoboulos, 101, III, 150, 161, 

165, 179. 231. 357, 361, 390 
Aristotle, 93, 187, 364 
Arrian, 5 7- 1 80 passim 
Artemidoros, 184 
Athenaios, 7, 190, 196, 249, 363, 

382-3, 392, 405, 409 

Baber, 332, 334, 366 

Bellasis, 355 

Bellew, Dr., 334, 335, 337, 339, 397 

Benfey, 356 

Bhandarkar, 411 

Bournouf, 166 

Bunbury, Sir E. H., 131, 132, 134, 

160, 332, 333, 347, 349, 350, 353, 

396 
Burnes, Sir A., 131, 137-8, 142, 161, 

344, 347, 356 

Caesar, 91, 93, 117, 163, 196,218, 

227 
Chardin, 360 
Chares, 212, 389, 392 
Chesney, General, 30, 78, 94, 231, 

346 
Chinnock, Dr., no, 117, 170 
Chronicle of Ceylon. Sir Mahavanso 
Cicero, 214, 237, 241, 392 
Clinton, 274 
Court, General, 76, 194, 337, 344 



Cunningham, General Sir A, 78, 97, 
134, 136, 139, 140, 142, 143, 156, 
157, 158, 159, 163, 167, 168, 194, 
293. 326, 331, 333, 335, 337, 342, 
347-8, 351, 352, 354, 356, 365, 

371 
Curtius, 183-266 passim 

D'Anville, 169 

Dio Cassius, 186 

Diodoros Sic, 269-301 passim 

Dionysios Periegetes, 167, 337 

Dioskorides, 171 

Droysen, 48, 104, 107, 160, 333, 

356 
Dry den, 33 

Duncker, 86, 358-9, 363 
Dutt, R. C, 369-70 

Edinburgh Cabinet Library, 252, 

278 
Edrisi, 169 
Elphinstone, Lord, 93, 132, 332, 340, 

344 
Elzivir Curtius, 246, 361 
Epigraphia Indika, 347 
EratosthenCs, S2-3, SS, 193 

Freeman, Professor, 2, 13, ^2, 250 
Fresnel, 1S5 
Foss, 1S4 

Gellius, Aulus, 212, 3S3 
Grote, 5, 4$, 250, 346 
Cutschmid, 327 

Hardy, 332 

I Icbor, Bishop, 340 



INDEX OF AUTHORITIES QUOTED 



43i 



Hedike, 184 

Heitland, 360-1 

Hekataios, 89 

Hematchandra, 156 

Hfrodotos, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 

123, 132, 187, 341, 370 
Homer, 89, 132, 237, 284 
Humboldt, 6 
Hunter, Sir W., 89 
Hwen Thsiang, 332, 342, 343, 348 

Ibn Haukal, 355 

Jerome, Saint, 15 

Journal Asiatique, 201, 342, 348 

Justin, 321-328 

Juvenal, 245 

Kaixisthenes, 282, 392 
Kleitarchos, Clitarchus, 151, 188, 

240 
Kbchly and Rustow, 104 
Kosmas Indikopleustes, 187 
Kriiger, 134 
Ktesias, 3, 84, 186, 252 

Lassen, 53, 76, 129, 143, 158, 160, 
187, 252, 333, 335, 347, 349, 354, 
356, 381 

Le Clerc, 359 

Levi, Sylvain, 342, 348, 401, 411, 413 

Livy, 100, 197, 218 

Loewenthal, 337 

Lucan, 13, 214 

Lucian, 378-9, 392 

JI'Murdo, Captain, 157, 166, 353, 

356 
Mahabharata, ill, 116, 155, 156, 

333, 350. 35 1 
Mahavanso, Chronicle of Ceylon, 187, 

332, 404 
Mann, 156, 190 
Marco Polo, 364 
Markianos, Marcian, 167, 397 
Masson, 61, 142, 156, 331, 349 
Maximus Tyrius, 361 
Megasfhengs, 3, 7, 8, 14, 86, 88, 93, 

155, 187, 190, 34i> 358.361, 364, 

386, 412 
Mela, Pomponius, 186, 190 
Mitford, 48 
Moberly, 104, 105 



Mockler, Major, 397 
Moorcroft, 366 
Muller, C, 194, 343 

Nearchos, 165, 186, 188, 244, 341, 

361, 391-2 
Nikolaos of Damascus, 365, 389 
Nonnus, 333 

Olshausen, 127 

Onesikritos, 7, 157, 187, 217, 307, 

309, 361, 390-1 
Orosius, 7, 116, 155, 190 
Ovid, 186 

Panini, 201, 334, 348, 350, 367, 

4", 413 
Patrokles, 6, 8 
Pausanias, 49, 72, 151, 246 
Periplous of the Erythraian sea, 59, 

no, 116, 161, 186, 188, 252, 310, 

367 
Peutinger Tables, Geographer of 

Ravenna, no 
Philo, 190 

Philostratos, 193, 215, 344, 349 
Pliny, 7, 123, 134, 155, 159, 170, 

172, 184, 185, 186, 187, 188, 190, 

217, 220, 231, 241, 253, 262, 263, 

33i, 339, 34i, 343, 345, 348, 351, 

364, 365, 380 
Plutarch, 305-317 passim 
Polyainos, 107, 340, 345, 411 
Polybios, 21, 100, 184, 187 
Porphyrios, 190 
Pratt, 196 

Pseudo-Kallisthenes, 342, 392 
Ptolemy Soter, 101, 102, 128, 134, 

148, 150, 179, 392 

the Geographer, 58, 59, 61, 114, 
129, 155, 165, 167, 183, 184, 
188, 194, 245, 293, 326, 338, 
343, 347, 365-6 

Racine, 235, 383 
Rajput Chronicle, in 
Ramayana, 349, 363 
Rashid-ud-Din, 363 
Raven, 218, 230, 237 
Rennell, 334, 356 
Rig-veda, 93, 186, 370 
Ritter, 64, 72, 333, 356 
Rooke, 360 



43 2 



INDEX OF AUTHORITIES QUOTED 



Ross, Major, 357 

Royal Asiatic Society, Journal of, 343 

Saint Ambrose, 392 

Sainte-Croix, 48 

Saint-Martin, V. de, 64, III, 116, 
156, 157, 158, 159,323.333.339, 
349, 35°, 351, 352, 354, 355, 356, 
365, 367 

Sallat, 372 

Salt, 85 

Scaliger, 360 

Schmieder, no, 134 

Senart, 374 

Seneca, 195, 229 

Sintenis, 171 

Smith, V. A., 371-2 

Solinus, 186, 220, 364 

Sophokles, 339 

Sotion, 309 

Stephanos of Byzantium, 57, 129, 
139, 186, 194, 262, 331, 351 

Stobaeus, 153 

Strabo, 6, 7, 39, 57, 95, no, 112, 
114, 131-2, 133, 134, 157, 160, 
161, 168, 185, 186, 187, 188, 190, 
217, 219, 282, 339, 341, 347, 351, 
358, 361, 365, 369, 383, 389, 393, 

399 

Suidas, 190 

Tacitus, 193, 227 



Theobald, W., 370-2 

Theophrastos, 217 

Thirlwall, Bishop, 19-20. 41, 48, 

104, 107, 121, 138, 227, 237, 249, 

266, 287, 351 
Timagenes, 151, 240 
Turnour, 187 
Tzetzes, 224 

Varaha Sanhita, in, 367 

Vegetius, 218 

Vigne, 78 

Vincent, 169, 261, 356 

Virgil, 199, 234, 365 

Voltaire, 313 

Weber, Professor A., 332, 359 
Wilford, 365, 367 
Willdenow, 171 
Williams, Archdeacon, 48 

Sir Monier, 156 
Wilson, Dr. John, 356 

Dr. H. H., 59, 331-2, 335, 
336 
Wood, Lieut, 78, 157 

Xenophon, 86, 364 

Yule, Colonel Sir H., 252, 356 

Zumpt, 10, II 



THE END 



Printed ty R. & R. Clark-, EJMurgA. 



MAP OF THE ROUTE TAKEN BY ALEXANDER IN HIS ASIATIC EXPEDITION 




NOTE-- Lines of Route shewn thus 



John. Bartholomew - &. Co. 



ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE AND COMPANY'S 
PUBLICATIONS 



Constable's Oriental Miscellany, a series that . . . has 
the strongest claim on popularity.— Notes and Queries. 



Already published 

Vol. I. 

BERNIER'S TRAVELS IN THE MOGUL EMPIRE. An 
entirely new edition, with illustrations, and reproductions of 
maps from early editions. By Archibald Constable, Mem. 
As. Soc. Bengal, F.S.A.Scot. Cr. 8vo, pp. liv+'soo. Price 
6s. nett. 

The old translation has now been revised and edited in very scholarly 
fashion. — The Times. 

This is a scholarly volume, and bodes well for the success of the Miscellany. 
— The Scotsman. 

The New Miscellany . . . has been right worthily inaugurated by a reprint 
of Bernier's Travels in India, which must delight the scholar and lover of books. 
— The Bombay Gazette. 

An almost perfect instance of careful, painstaking, and judicious editing. — 
The Pioneer. 

The excellent editing, as well as outward get-up . . are a guarantee that 
this new venture . . . will supply a long-felt want. — The Times of India. 

The student will know how to prize the work, and the general reader will find 
it very interesting reading. — The Manchester Guardian. 

Since their first appearance in Paris, in 1670, many have been the reprints and 
translations of Bernier's Travels. . . . With all this, however, the book itself 
is not easily accessible. In offering the English Public a new edition of it, 
Messrs. Archibald Constable and Company have therefore no need to apologise. 
It is a fact that until this publication no really satisfactory edition has existed. It 
is now edited not only with great care, but also with a laudable regard to the 
needs of the general reader. — The Anti-Jacobin. 

The book abounds with curious scenes and anecdotes of native life in India, 
amusing in themselves and interesting for comparison with the ways, habits, and 
ideas of modern India. . . . The running glossary of Indian terms and words is 
very useful ; so are the brief notices of distinguished persons and remarkable 

I 



2 ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS 

places mentioned in the text ; there is also a chronicle of Bernier's life, a biblio- 
graphy of his works, and an excellent index. — The Speaker. 

The book is of almost indispensable necessity to the reader of history, being 
accurate and painstaking to a high degree. — The Academy. 

The volume has been admirably edited and illustrated. The • numerous 
allusions in the text to individuals, places, productions of art and industry, etc. , 
are well explained in brief but sufficient notes, which contain the results of careful 
research in contemporary historians, and of an intimate personal acquaintance 
with Indian life and industry at the present day. — The Scottish Geographical 
Magazine. 



Vol. II. 

POPULAR READINGS IN SCIENCE. By John Gall, 
M.A., LL.B., late Professor of Mathematics and Physics, 
Canning College, Lucknow, and David Robertson, M.A, 
LL.B., B.Sc. With many Diagrams, a Glossary of Technical 
Terms, and an Index. Cr. 8vo, pp. 468. Price 5s. nett.< 

The authors lay no claim to originality, but have exercised a judicious choice 
in the selection of subject - matter. . . . The narrative style which has been 
adopted by the authors will make the book acceptable to general readers who are 
anxious to make acquaintance with modern science. — Nature. 

It is hardly to be expected that this second volume of Constable's Oriental 
Miscellany will meet with such universal acclamation as the first volume, which 
consisted of Bernier's Travels. But when rightly considered, it equally shows 
the thoroughness with which the publishers have thrown themselves into the 
enterprise. — The Academy. 

While the essays are such as would attract and instruct a general reader, they 
appear to have been written specially with a view to the needs of Indian students 
approaching the study of science for the first time. . . . They are well adapted 
to this end, and cannot fail to create in their readers a desire to push their know- 
ledge further. — The Scotsman. 

The new volume of Constable's Oriental Miscellany would have delighted 
Macaulay and the champions of " Occidentalism " in Indian education in Lord 
William Bentinck's day. . . . Messrs. Gall and Robertson . . . have prepared 
a collection of essays which will be at least as acceptable to the general reader as 
to the student, in which the results of the most modern researches in physical 
science are brought up to date. ... In each case the subject is treated in a clear 
and interesting way ... it is a most commendable undertaking. — T/u Bombay 
Gazette. 

The title sufficiently indicates the lines on which the two collaborators have 
worked. Theirs is no dry-as-dust text-book ; it is rather a collection of scien- 
tific facts forming chapters in what has aptly been called the romance of science. 
, . . Messrs. Archibald Constable and Company have a particular interest in 
this country, and their Oriental Miscellany is so well edited, printed, and pub- 
lished, that it is easy to predict for it a wide popularity. — The Madras Mail. 

The second volume of Constable's Oriental Mi.nellany, just published under 
the above heading, has been designed to meet an undoubted want, and will 
hardly yield in usefulness to any in the projected series. . . . While elementary 
principles arc explained with sufficient clearness to enable the work to be used 
independently of other text-books, the compilers have devoted much attention 



, ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS 3 

and space to many of the results of scientific researches which have mainly dis- 
tinguished the present century. The Darwinian theory, for instance, is not only 
admirably summarised in itself, but we are furnished with a useful pricis of the argu- 
ments pro et con, together with an account of the more recent discoveries of paleon- 
tologists which have strengthened the doctrine of the evolution of organic beings, 
and an outline of the views regarding it of the savants of all nations. The book 
is one which should secure a large number of general readers, who will find in 
it a vast store of useful information placed before them in a peculiarly readable 
and acceptable form. — The Pioneer. 

This is a popular treatise covering a very wide range of subjects. ... A well- 
written book like a modernised Lardner, or afin-de-siecle edition of the Scientific 
Information for the People of the " Useful Knowledge Series." — The Educational 
Times. 

The authors write about what they know, and they write with clearness and 
precision, and on the topics which they discuss they have spoken with that 
accuracy which comes from full knowledge. . . . The value of the book is 
enhanced by a glossary of technical terms, which will be of the utmost possible 
use to the beginner, and also of use to those who are somewhat advanced in 
their studies. — The Aberdeen Daily Free Press. 



Vol. III. 

AURENG-ZEBE, a Tragedy, by John Dryden, and Book II. 
of The Chace, a Poem, by William Somervile. Edited, 
with Biographical Memoirs and Notes, by Kenneth Deigh- 
TON, Editor of Select Plays of Shakespeare. With a Portrait 
of Dryden, and a coloured reproduction of an Indian paint- 
ing representing the Emperor Akbar deer-stalking. Cr. 8vo, 
pp. xiii + 222. Price 5s. nett. 

An interesting reprint of Dryden's tragedy. ... If any one wishes to realise 
by an hour's easy reading the vast gulf which separates our knowledge of India 
and our conceptions about India, at the close of this 19th century, from the views 
of our ancestors about India in the last quarter of the 17th century, we recom- 
mend this book to his notice. Mr. Deighton's copious and suggestive footnotes 
will render the perusal both profitable and pleasant. — The Times. 

The volume, like its predecessors, is admirably got up, and is enriched by a 
fine portrait of Dryden, and a capital reproduction of a highly curious and inter- 
esting Indian picture exhibiting the youthful Akbar at the chase. — The Scotsman. 

Mr. Kenneth Deighton supplies a short biography of Dryden, and a just 
estimate of his dramatic power, taking due notice of the improvement in the later 
tone of a poet who was largely made by his surroundings, and had to write to 
please. . . . Ample notes, suited to the capacity of the Indian student, are incor- 
porated in the volume. — The Glasgow Herald. 

Vol. IV. 

LETTERS FROM A MAHRATTA CAMP. By Thomas 
Duer BROUGHTON. A new edition, with an Introduction by 
the Right Hon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff, G.C.S.I., F.R.S., 
Notes, Coloured and other Illustrations, a very full Index, and a 
Map. Crown 8vo, pp. xxxii-t- 274. Price 6s. nett. 



4 ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS 

Forthcoming volumes, in active preparation 

LIFE IN ANCIENT INDIA. By Mrs. Speir. A new 
edition, revised and edited by Dr. ROST, CLE., Librarian, India 
Office. 

RAMBLES AND RECOLLECTIONS OF AN INDIAN 
OFFICIAL. By Major-General Sir W. H. Sleeman, K.C.B. 
A new edition, edited by Vincent Arthur Smith, Indian 
Civil Service. 

Other publications 

STUDIES IN MOHAMMEDANISM, Historical and Doctrinal, 
with a chapter on Islam in England. By JOHN J. Pool. 
With a Frontispiece and Index, pp. xvi + 420. Cr. 8vo, full 
cloth. Price 6s. 

An interesting survey — all the more readable, perhaps, on account of its in- 
formal and even discursive arrangement — of Mussulman faith, practice, and 
history. . . A conspicuous feature of Mr. Pool's work is the account of the 
Moslem propaganda, which Mr. Quilliam, a Liverpool solicitor, is now prosecut- 
ing in that city. . . It is tinged by no rancour or contempt, and exhibits a 
conscientious endeavour to appreciate the Mohammedan standpoint. As a 
" popular text-book," dealing with some of the most picturesque aspects of Islam, 
it deserves more than ordinary attention. — The Times. 

Mr. Pool . . . has done good service in publishing this popular exposition of 
the doctrines and real character of Islam. So far as he errs at all, he errs on the 
side of too much leniency to Mohammedanism. . Mr. Pool's too favourable 

account of the Moorish rdgime in Spain is the only part of his book that is open 
to serious question. The rest of the volume is both readable and instructive. 
He has evidently studied Islam with great care, and he states his own views with 
exemplary moderation. — The Spectator. 

The chapter which gives information on this matter [Islam in Liverpool] is 
naturally the most interesting in the volume. . As to the other parts of Mr. 

Pool's book it is difficult to speak too highly. His account of Mohammed and 
his system is fair and full, abounding in all kinds of illustrative anecdote. — The 
Glasgow Herald. 

In the forty-one chapters of this volume the promise of the title is well kept, 
and every aspect of Islam faith and practice is discussed in a clear, comprehensive, 
and interesting manner. — The Liverpool Mercury. 

These Studies in Mohammedanism are conspicuously fair. The writer is 
devotedly attached to Christianity, but he frankly and gladly acknowledges that 
Mohammed was a man of extraordinary powers and gifts, and that the religion 
which bears his name has done incalculable service to humanity in keeping the 
sublime truth of the unity of God before the eyes of the non-Christian world 
steeped in polytheism. — The Bradford Oliscnvr. 

This volume will be found both interesting and useful to the general reader, as 
supplying in a convenient form a very good outline of the rise and development, 
with an account of the more salient features, of the Mohammedan religion. There 
arc short chapters also on the Turks, Afghans, Corsairs, crusades, literature, archi- 
tecture, slavery, etc. , which convey much public information in a pleasant style. 
— The Scottish Geographical Magazine. 



ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS 5 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF INDIAN FIELD SPORTS : A Series 
of Ten Coloured Plates, after the drawings by Captain Thomas 
Williamson, of the Bengal Army, first published in 1807. 
With a Preface and Description to each Plate. Oblong 4to, 
printed on hand-made paper, gilt top. Price 10s. 6d. 

THE HISTORY OF THE MOGHUL EMPERORS OF 
HINDUSTAN ILLUSTRATED BY THEIR COINS. By 
Stanley Lane- Poole. With a Map of Mediaeval India, 
showing the mints of the Muhammadan Rulers, a Genealogical 
Tree of the Moghul Emperors, and Index. 8vo, full buckram, 
pp. 188. The impression for sale is strictly limited to 100 
copies, numbered and signed. Price 8s. nett. — Out of print. 

A valuable monograph on the history of the Mughal Emperors as illustrated 
by their coins. — The Times. 

. . Exemplifies in an interesting manner to what extent the researches of 
numismatists are of value to the historical student. — The Saturday Review. 

A work of this character could hardly have been issued under better auspices. 
The collection of Moghul coins contained in the British Museum is the richest and 
most complete in the world ; and few, if any, are better qualified, whether as 
orientalists or numismatists, than Mr. Stanley Lane-Poole to extract from it every 
ray of light whereby the history of the period may be elucidated and controlled. 
. . . Not least should the history of this great dynasty [Moghul] interest us 
Englishmen, to whom has passed the wide empire over which it once held sover- 
eign sway ; and Messrs. Constable may well be congratulated on having within 
so short a time increased our knowledge of it by two books so excellent as this one 
before us and the Bernier of last year. — The National Observer. 



Under preparation 

THE PRESENT SITUATION IN CENTRAL ASIA ; author- 
ised translation of the work Antagonismus der Englischen and 
Russischen Interessen in Asien, Wien 1890. Brought up to 
date, with a Map embodying the latest information. — In the 
Press. 

THE MOHAMMEDAN DYNASTIES : Table and Pedigrees 
of the Princes and Khalifs of Islam from the Seventh to the 
Nineteenth Century ; arranged with brief historical introductions 
and Indices. By Stanley Lane- Poole. 

INDIAN CHRONOLOGY, being a Table of Authentic Dates, 
historical and literary, from the earliest period until 1 500 a.d. 
By C. M. Duff. 

MEMORIALS OF THE DISRUPTION IN THE SCOT- 
TISH CHURCH, Historical, Financial, and Pictorial.— In the 
Press. 



6 ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS 

THE MIGRATION OF SYMBOLS. By Count Goblet 
D'Alviella, Professor of the History of Religions in the Uni- 
versity of Brussels. An authorised translation, edited by Sir 
George Birdwood, M.D., K.C.I.E., C.S.I. , LL.D., Officer of 
the Legion of Honour and of the French Academy. With five 
full-page Plates and 139 Illustrations in the text. — In the Press. 

SOME MEMORIES OF BOOKS, AUTHORS, AND EVENTS, 
from the Life of a Publisher's Assistant. By the late James G. 
Bertram. With a Portrait of Sir Walter Scott from an en- 
graving by Lewis, after the drawing by Geddes. — In the Press. 

PREM SAGAR, or Ocean of Love. A new translation of Pro- 
fessor Eastwick's edition of the Hindi text of Shri Lullu Lil 
Kavi. By Frederic Pincott, M.R.A.S., Author of the Hindi 
Manual, Editor and Annotator of the Sakuntala in Hindi, and 
Translator of the Sanskrit Hitopadesa. With copious notes, 
philological, mythological, and historical, emendations of faulty 
readings in the text, and explanations of peculiar idioms. 

ENGLISH SETTLEMENTS IN INDO-CHINA. By J. 
Chailly-Bert. Authorised English translation, with an 
Introduction, Maps, Notes, and an Index. — In the Press. 



THE INDIAN MAGAZINE AND REVIEW. A publication 
which aims at interesting its readers in the people of India, in 
their literature, their history, their art, and their customs ; their 
various phases of development, and particularly in their progress. 

Published on the first of each month. Subscription, 5 s. per 
annum, in advance, post free ; single numbers, 6d., postage extra. 

NORTH INDIAN NOTES AND QUERIES. A Monthly 
Periodical devoted to the systematic collection of authentic notes 
and scraps of information regarding the country and the people. 
Edited by William Crooke, B.A., Member Asiatic Society of 
Bengal and Folklore Society, Bengal Civil Service. 
Subscription, 10s. 6d. per annum, in advance, post free. 



ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE AND COMPANY 
14 PARLIAMENT STREET S-W 



. 












