^m^' 


ASIA 


-sT'-' 


^^V: 


>'"^ 


:j,;-  *  -  -m 


*4^  '  '.^ 


>;m 


•^^^^^r^n; 


:^U-4:    J#^./V    f*..-./-^: 
'  "  ^■'  f  ■'^'^     '■■•*#-fe 


V^'»?_i?; 


BOUGHT  WITH  THE  INCOME 
FROM  THE 

SAGE   ENDOWMENT    FUND 

THE  GIFT  OF 

..£4r^AaIIZ. ^vMf 


3   1924  070  622   109 


if  MW  B    Cornell  University 


The  original  of  this  book  is  in 
the  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924070622109 


ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 

ON    THE 

OEIGIN  AND  HISTORY 


THE  PEOPLE  OF  ODIA, 

THEIR  RELIGION  AND  INSTITUTIONS. 

COLLECTED,    TRANSLATED,    AND    ILLUSTRATED 

Br 
J.   MUIE,    D.C.L.,  LL.D.,  PH.D. 


VOLUME  FIFTH. 

CONTEIBXJTIOlfS  TO  A  KlfOWXEDGE  OF  THE  COSMOGONT,  MTTHOLOGT,  EELIGIOITS 
IDEAS,  IIFE  AND  MANNEES,  OF  THE  IKDIANS  IS  THE  TEDIC  AGE. 


•^ 


LONDON: 
TEiJBNEE  &  CO.,  8  and  60,  PATEENOSTEE    EOW. 

18  70. 
{All  rights  reserved.) 


Ou  y^p  oZv  ouS^  t,-^\ixov  iwBpdmois  i  8ehs  iiroxfipiov  Imh  roirav  Sc  Toi/s  ^pw/^^i/ous 
airoiS  KoX  Sapovfievovs  fi/iiv  Kol  irapexomas  ii4rvaa  Kol  SiapKrj  fleoir  ipoiiiffa/iev,  o4x 
^Ttpovs  vap'  kripois  ouBe  Pap$dpovs  Ka\  "EWrjyor  ouSe  yorfous  Kal  ^opelovs'  &\A' 
fimrep  iJXia;  Ko!  <rc\^rj)  Kol  oupoi/bs  Kol  7^  Kal  eii\a(rira  koi;'^  irSiriy,  ovo/iiCerai  Sc 
&A\(os  vTT*  &W<ov,  O0TWS  €vhs  hSyov  Tov  TouTO  KofffiovvTos  Koi  fiLcis  vpovoias  hrt- 
TpoTTevoiffTjs,  Kcii  Svyd/Meuv  imovpyav  iTri  TrdvTas  rerayfUvtov,  erepat  Trop'  erepOLS 
•cork  v6novs  yey6va<ri  -ri/uai  Kal  irpoariyoplar  Kal  iTvii.p6\ois  xpSn-oi,  KaSiepd/ievoi 
liiv  ifivSpois,  it  Se  Tpamcripms,  ejrl  t4  Beta  T^Jy  v6ririv  SStiyovvres  ouk  i,KivSiyus. 
"EvioL  yh,p  ci.-jroff<pa\evTc^  vavrdwaaiv  €ts  ZsiffiZaiiioviav  &KiaOov'  ot  Se  ^eiyovres 
SffTrep  e\os  t^v  SetffiSaifiovtav,  ^\a6ov  addts  &airep  eis  KpTfljivhy  efivetroi'Tes  r^v 
o9e({T7)To. — Plutarch,  de  Iside  et  Osiride,  section  67. 

[In  opposition  to  those  who  represented  Dionysos,  the  wine-god,  as  mesming 
merely  wine,  Hephaistos  fire,  Demeter  com,  etc.,  Plutarch  urges] : — 

"  For  the  god  is  not  a  Ufeless  thing,  subject  to  human  handling  and  control.  But 
irom  the  fact  that  they  dispose  of,  and  bestow  upon  us,  these  objects,  and  preserve 
them  to  us  perpetual  and  constant,  we  have  considered  them  to  be  gods.  And  these 
gods  are  not  different  among  different  peoples,  they  are  not  Barbarian,  or  Hellenic,  not 
southern  or  northern ;  but  just  as  the  sun,  and  the  moon,  and  the  heaven,  and  the 
earth,  and  the  sea  are  common  to  all — though  they  receive  different  names  from 
different  races — so  too,  while  there  is  but  one  reason  that  orders,  and  one  providence 
that  superintends,  this  universe,  and  administrative  powers  are  set  over  all,  different 
honours  and  appellations  have  been  assigned  to  these  divine  beings  by  the  laws  of 
different  nations.  And  symbols  too  are  employed,  some  of  an  obscure  character,  by 
initiated  persons,  and  others  of  a  plainer  description  by  others,  with  the  view  of 
guiding  men's  conceptions  of  divine  things.  But  this  practice  is  not  free  fi-om  danger ; 
for  some  persons,  deviating  from  the  truth,  have  slipped  into  superstition,  while 
others,  seeking  to  avoid  the  marsh  of  superstition,  have  fallen  into  atheism  as  over  a 
precipice." 


HERTFORD : 

FRINTKD  BT  STEPHEN  AUSTIir. 


PREFACE 


In  the  present  volume  I  have  reprinted,  with  the 
addition  of  some  new  materials,  subsequently  collected, 
and  of  the  texts  on  which  they  are  founded,  a  series  of 
papers  on  the  theogony,  mythology,  and  religious  ideas 
of  the  Yedio  poets,  and  other  subjects,  which  originally 
appeared  in  the  Journal  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  for  1864,  and  the  two 
following  years :  and  I  have  appended  a  new  section, 
on  life  and  manners  during  the  Vedic  age. 

I  have  not  thought  it  necessary  to  translate  all  the 
texts  to  which  I  have  referred  in  proof  of  the  repre- 
sentations I  have  made.  To  have  done  so  would  have 
extended  the  work  to  an  unnecessary  length,  as  nu- 
merous verses  are  cited  for  the  sake  of  a  single  epithet. 
Some  of  the  texts  are  rendered  in  full ;  but  in  many, 
perhaps  most,  cases  I  have  contented  myself  with  giving 
the  substance  of  several  passages  of  similar  or  identical 
purport. 

Nor  have  I  considered  it  necessary  to  supply  here  any 
summary  of  the  contents  of  the  volume,  such  as  was 
given  in  the  prefaces  to  the  third  and  fourth  volumes,  and 
in  that  to  the  second  edition  of  the  first  volume.  The 
summary  given  in  the  Table  of  Contents  seems  sufB.- 
ciently  ample  to  afibrd  the  reader  the  means  of  readily 


VI  PREFACE. 

ascertaining  what  he  may  expect  to  find  in  the  body 
of  the  work. 

I  have  tried  to  exhibit,  in  a  metrical  form,  the  sub- 
stance of  the  ideas  regarding  Indra  and  some  other 
deities,  which  are  more  fully  illustrated  in  the  prose 
sections. 

I  should  also  further  remark  that  in  this  volume  I 
have  attempted  nothing  more  than  to  exhibit  the  most 
prominent  features  of  the  gods, — such  as  display  them- 
selves on  the  surface.  It  must  remain  for  some  more 
profound  and  critical  scholar,  after  maturer  investigation, 
to  penetrate  more  deeply  into  the  nature  and  essence  of 
the  Yedic  mythology,  to  estimate  and  represent  it  in  a 
more  philosophical  spirit,  to  investigate  the  age  of  the 
different  hymns,  and  to  determine  how  far  it  may  be 
possible  to  trace  in  them  a  development  of  the  mytho- 
logy, from  a  simpler  to  a  more  complex  state,  or  any 
other  modification  of  its  character  or  elements,  even 
before  it  began  to  show  any  tendency  towards  mono- 
theism. 

Meanwhile,  and  until  the  subject  shall  have  been 
treated  in  a  manner  more  befitting  its  importance,  the 
materials  which  I  have  brought  together,  arranged,  and 
interpreted,  will  enable  those  students  of  mythology 
who  are  themselves  unable  to  consult  the  originals,  to 
form,  I  trust,  a  not  inaccurate,  and  a  tolerably  complete, 
conception  of  the  character  and  attributes  of  the  Indian 
deities  in  the  earliest  form  in  which  they  are  represented 
to  us  by  written  records. 


CONTENTS. 


v.,  vi.      PREFACE. 

1  —  7.  INTEODUCTION. 

2.  (1)  Affinities  of  tte  Indian  and  Grrecian  mythologies. 

3.  (2)  Antiquity  and  peculiarity  of  the  Vedic  mythology. 

4.  (3)  Origin  of  cosmogonio  and  mythological  speculation. 
6.      (4)  Yariety  in  the  conceptions  of  the  Yedic  poets. 

8  —  20.  SECTION  I.  The  Indian  Gods  qenerailt,  as  eepeesenied 

rtf  THE  Ele-TEDA. 

8.  (1)  Taska's  classification  of  the  gods. 

9.  (2)  Their  number. 

12.      (3)  Their  origin  and  immortality. 

16.      (4)  Different  generations  of  gods  and  their  mutual  relations. 

18.      (5)  Their  powers  and  prerogatives. 

21  —  34.  SECTION  II.  Dtatjs  AifD  PKiimvi  (Heaten  and  Eaeth). 
22.      (1)  Heaven  and  Earth  described  as  the  universal  parents. 
24.      (2)  Passages  to  the  same  effect  from  the  classical  authors. 
30.      (3)  Heaven  and  Earth  elsewhere  spoken  of  as  created. 
32.      (4)  Speculations  about  their  origin. 

35  —  53.  SECTION  III.  Adixi. 
35.      (1)  The  epithets  by  which  she  is  characterized. 
37.      (2)  Origin  of  the  conception  of  Aditi  according  to  Professors 
Eoth  and  Miiller. 


Tiii  CONTENTS. 

37.  (3)  Aditi  as  the  mother  of  the  Adityas. 

38.  (4)  Is  Aditi  eTer  identified  with  the  sky  ? 

40.      (5)  Aditi  seems  to  be  distinguished  from  the  Earth. 

42.  (6)  Aditi  and  Diti. 

43.  (7)  Aditi  may  be  a  personification  of  universal  nature. 

46.  (8)  Aditi  as  a  forgiver  of  sin. 

47.  (9)  Aditi's  position  is  sometimes  a  subordinate  one. 

48.  (10)  Creation  as  described  in  Eig-veda,  x.  72;  birth  of  Aditi, 

Daksha,  the  gods,  and  the  Adityas. 

54—  57.  SECTION  IV.  The  Adiitas. 

58—  iGd.  SECTIOlir  v.  MiTEA  and  Vaetjna. 
58.      (1)  General  idea  of  these  two  gods. 
69.      (2)  Their  chief  characteristics. 
61.      (3)  Functions  and  attributes  of  Yaruna. 

68.  (4)  Conjoint  functions  and  attributes  of  Mitra  and  Varuna. 

69.  (5)  Hymn  addressed  to  Mitra  alone. 

69.      (6)  Professor  Koth's  remarks  on  Mitra  and  Varuna. 

71.  (7)  The  Indian  Mitra  and  the  Zoroastrian  Mithra. 

72.  (8)  Is  there  any  historical  connection  between  Varuna   and 

Ahnra  Mazda  ? 
72.      (9)  Varuna  connected  with  the  element  of  water,  even  in  the 
Eig-veda. 

75.  (10)  Explanations  by  Professors  Eoth  and  Westergaard  of  the 

process  by  which  Varuna  came  to  be  regarded  as  the 
regent  of  the  sea. 

76.  (11)  Correspondence  of  Varuna  with  the  Greek  TJranos. 

76a.    (1)  Varuna,  as  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  metrical  sketch. 

77—139.  SECTION  VI.  Indea. 

77.  (1)  His  origin  and  parents  ;  his  wife. 

83.  (2)  His  attributes,  physical  and  mental. 

84.  (3)  His  chariot  and  horses. 

86.      (4)  His  thunderbolt  and  other  weapons  and  instruments. 
88.      (5)  His  love  of  soma-juioe ;  his  combats  with  the  cloud-demons : 
explanation  of  the  myth. 


CONTENTS.  ix 

98.    {5a)  India's  greatness. 
103.      (6)  His  relations  with  his  worshippers. 

115.  (7)  Apparent  mutual  incongruity  of  some  of  the  preceding 

representations  of  Indra. 

116.  (8)  Professor  Eoth's  theory  of  the  supersession  of  the  worship 

of  Varuna  by  that  of  Indra. 
118.      (9)  Supersession  of  Dyaus  by  Indra  according  to  Professors 
Benfey  and  Br^al. 

120.  (10)  Opinions  of  Professors  Eoth,  "Whitney,  Spiegel,  and  Dr.  F. 

Windischmann  on  the  q[uestion  whether  Varuna  and 
Ahura  Muzda  are  historically  connected. 

121.  (11)  Whether  there  are  any  passages  in  the  hymns  which  de- 

cisively show  that  Indra  was  superseding  Yaruna. 
126.  (12)  Indra  as  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  metrical  sketch. 
(1)  Invitation  of  Indra  to  the  sacrifice.  (2)  His  birth. 
(3)  His  arrival.  (4)  Indra  invited  to  drink  the  soma- 
draught.  (5)  Praise  of  Soma.  (6)  Indra's  drinking 
song.  (7)  He  drinks  the  libation.  (8)  Indra,  attended 
by  the  Maruts,  sets  out  to  encounter  Vritra.  (9)  His 
conflict  with  Vritra.  (10)  His  greatness.  (11)  His 
relation  to  his  worshippers. 

140—142.  SECTION  VII.  Pabjanta. 

143—146.  SECTION  VIII.  VIttt. 

147—154.  SECTION  IX.  The  Maetjts. 
147.      (1)  Their  parentage,  epithets,  characteristics,  and  action. 
153.      (2)  Their  relations  to  Indra,  and  the  rival  claims  of  the  two 
parties. 

155—161.  SECTION  X.  Sukta. 

156.  (1)  The  two  sun-gods  separately  celebrated  in  the  hymns. 

157.  (2)  Surya's  parentage,  relations  to  the  other  gods,  epithets,  and 

functions. 

158.  (3)  Subordinate  position  sometimes  assigned  to  him. 

159.  (4)  Translations  in  prose  and  verse  of  a  hymn  to  Surya. 


X  CONTENTS. 

162—170.  SECTION  XI.  Savitsi. 

162.      (1)  His  epithets,  characteristics,  and  functions, 

165.      (2)  Passages  in  whicli  the  derivation  of  his  name  seems  to  he 

alluded  to. 
168.      (3)  Savitri  sometimes  distinguished  from,  sometimes  identified 

with,  Surya. 

171—180.  SECTION  XII.  Pfshait. 
171.      (1)  Functions  and  epithets  of  Pushan. 

174.      (2)  Hymns  addressed  to  him  (i.  42 ;  vi.  53-vi.  58,  and  portions 
of  others)  quoted  and  translated, 

181—198.  SECTION  XIII.  Ushas. 

181.      (1)  Three  hymns  to  Fahas  (i.  48 ;  i.  92;  i.  113),  and  portions  of 

others  quoted  and  translated. 
190.      (2)  Eolations  of  Ushas  to  other  deities. 
193.      (3)  Her  epithets,  functions,  and  characteristics. 
196.      (4)  Ushas,  as  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  metrical  sketch. 

199—223.  SECTION  XIIIa.  Aain. 

199.  (1)  His  functions. 

204.  (2)  His  births,  and  triple  existence. 

211.  (3)  His  epithets  and  characteristics. 

214.  (4)  High  divine  functions  ascribed  to  him. 

216.  (5)  His  relations  to  his  worshippers. 

221.  (6)  Agni, — a  metrical  sketch. 

224—233.  SECTION  XIV.  Tvashtei. 
224!      (1)  His  epithets,  functions,  and  relations. 
227.      (2)  His  daughter  and  her  wedding. 
229.      (3)  Hostility  of  Indra  and  Tvashtri. 

234—257.  SECTION  XV.  The  A^vnrs. 

234.  (1)  Their  character  and  .parentage,  their  relations  to  Surya, 

their  attributes  and  accompaniments, 

235.  (2)  Legends  regarding  different  persons  delivered  or  favoured 

by  them. 


CONTENTS.  xi 

248.  (3)  Their  connection  with  other  deities. 

249.  (4)  Their  relations  to  their  worshippers. 

260.  (5)  Legend  of  Chyavana  and  the  A^vins,   according  to  the 

S'atapatha  Brahmana  and  the  MaMbharata.  ^ 
255.      (6)  Eemarks  on  tlie  A^vins  by  Professor  Goldstiicker. 

258—271.  SECTIOIf  XVI.  Soma. 

259.,  (I)  Quotation  from  Euripides  relating  to  the  Greek  god  Dio- 
nysus. 

261.  (2)  Prevalence  and  enthusiastic  character  of  the  ancient  Soma- 

worship. 

262.  (3)  How  the  soma-plant  was  brought  to  the  earth. 

264.  (4)  Soma's  wives. 

265.  (5)  Properties  ascribed  to  the  soma-plant  or  its  presiding  deity. 

266.  (6)  Divine  powers  attributed  to  Soma. 

269,  (T)  Soma  associated  with  other  gods. 

270.  (8)  Soma  in  the  post-vedic  age  a  name  of  the  moon. 

272—283.  SECTION  XVII.  Bbihaspati  aot  Bbahmas-aspati. 

272.  Professor  Eoth's  account  of  this  deity. 

274.  (1)  Passages  in  which  he  is  celebrated  (E.V.  ii.  23  ;  ii.  24, 
1  ff.  ;  iv.  50,  1,  4ff.  ;  x.  68,  6ff.;  i.  40,  5  f .  ;  i.  190, 
If.;  V.  43,  12  ;  X.  98,  7)  quoted  and  translated. 

280,  (2)  Parentage  and  attributes  of  the  god. 

281.  (3)  Whether  Brihaspati  and   Brahmanaspati   are   identifiable 

with  Agni ; — opinions  of  M.  Langlois,  and  Professors 
H.  H.  "WUson  and  Max  MuUer. 

284 — 335.  SECTION  XVIII.  Tama  and  the  DocifinnE  op  a  puttjee 

LIPB. 

284.  (1)  Eeferences  to  immortality  in  the  earlier  books  of  the  Eig- 
veda. 

286.  (2)  Eeferences  to  the  Fathers  (the  Souls  of  departed  ancestors) 

in  the  earlier  books  of  the  Eig-veda. 

287.  (3)  Hymns  and  portions  of  hymns  relating  to  Tama  and  the 

Fathers,  viz.,  x.  17, 1  f. ;  x.  10  ;  x.  14  ;  x.  15  ;  x.  16,  etc., 
quoted  and  translated. 


xu  CONTENTS. 

300.      (4)  Summary  of  the  conceptions  convej'ed  in  the  preceding 

quotations. 
305.      (5)  Purther  quotations  from  the  hymns  on  the  subject  of  para- 
^  dise,  its  pleasures,  the  continuance  there  of  the  family 

relations,  and  on  future  punishment. 
314.      (6)  Quotations  from  later  Indian  works,  the  Brahmanas,  etc., 

with  some  remarks  of  Professor  Weber  on  their  doctrines 

regarding  the  destiny  of  the  soul. 
327.      (7)  Yama  and  a  future  life, — a  metrical  sketch. 
329.      (8)  Nachiketas,  an  ancient  theosophic  story,  metrically  rendered 

from  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana  and  the  Katha  Upanishad. 

336.  SECTIOIT  XIX.  MnfOE  Divestities  :  Tbixa  Amta,  Ahie- 

BTJDHUTA,  AJO)  AjA  EkAPAD. 

337 — 349.  SECTION  XX.  The  Goddesses  mentioited  nf  the  Vedic 

HTMKS. 

337.  (1)  SarasvatI,  Ila,  BharatT,  Mahl,  Hotra,  Varutrl,  and  Dhishana. 
343.      (2)  Apas,  the  Waters ;  hymn  to  the  Sindhu,  Ganga,  Yamuna, 

and  other  rivers. 
345.      (3)  The  Apsarases. 

345.  (4)  Agnayl,  Yarunani,  A^vini,  Kodasi. 

346.  (5)  Aranyani  ;  (6)  Eaka,  SinivalJ,  and  Gungu ;  (7)  S'raddha. 
348.      (8)  Lakshml  and  S'ri. 

350 — 420.  SECTION  XXI.  Peogeess  of  the  Vedic  EEUGioif  towaebs 

ABSTEACT  CONCEPTIONS  OE  THE  DeITT. 

350.  Introductory  remarks,  embracing  references  to  some  texts 

indicating  a  tendency  in  this  direction. 

353.  (1)  Texts  of  a  more    decidedly  monotheistic  or  pantheistic 

character. 

354.  (2)  Visvakarman. 

355.  (3)  Hiranyagarbha ;  (4)  Brahmanaspati,  Daksha,  and  Aditi. 

356.  (5)  Nonentity,  entity,  and  the  One,  E.V.  x.  129, with  illustrations 

from  the  commentary  on  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  etc. 
367.      (6)  The  Purusha-sukta,  E.Y.  x.  90;  the  hymn  on  Purusha, 
A.Y.  X.  2,  etc. 


CONTENTS.  xiii 

378.      (7)  Skambha  and  Brahma,  A.V.  x.  7 ;  x.  8,  etc ;  with  remarks 

by  Professor  Goldstiicker  on  Skambha,  etc. 
390.      (8)  Prajapati. 
393.     (9)  Prana,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  xi.  4.  ♦ 

395.  (10)  Eohita,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  xiii.  1,  and  xiii.  2. 

396.  (11)  The  Uchhishta,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  xi.  7. 

398.  (12)  Sacrificial  implements,  etc. ;  (13)  Anumati. 

399.  (14)  The  Ox  or  Kettle ;  (15)  the  Brahmacharin. 
402.    (16)  Kama,  as  celebrated  in  A,V.  ix.  2. 

407.    (17)  Kala,  or  Time,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  xix.  53  and  54. 

410.    (18)  General  remarks  on  the  preceding  passages. 

412.  (19)  Whether  polytheism  or  monotheism  was  the  earliest  form 
of  the  Aryan  religion :  opinions  of  Messrs.  Pictet,  Pflei- 
derer,  Scherer,  EeviUe,  and  Koth  on  this  subject. 

421 — 449.  SECTION'  XXII.  MiscEiLiNEOTJS  Hnors  feom  the  Eig- 

ASTt  AtHABTA-TEDAS. 

421.  Introductory  remarks. 

422.  (1)  Hymn  to  AranyanI,  E.V.  x.  146. 

424.  (2)  R.V.  ix.  112,  on  the  variety  of  human  aims. 

425,  (3)  E.V.  X.  34,  the  gambler's  lament,  with  quotations  from  the 

A.V.  regarding  the  prevalence  of  gaming. 
431.      (4)  E.V.  X.  117,  in  praise  of  liberality. 
433.      (5)  E.V.  X.  107,  in  praise  of  liberality  to  priests. 
435.      (6)  E.V.  vii.   103,  Frogs  reviving  in  the  autumn,  compared 

to  Brahmans  celebrating  their  rites. 

438.  (7)  A.V.  vii.  12,  relating  to  social  meetings. 

439.  (8)  A.V.  iii.  30,  incantation  for  concord  in  a  family. 

440.  (9)  A.V.  V.  30,  incantation  to  preserve  the  life  of  a  sick  man, 

or  recall  the  spirit  of  a  dead  man. 

442.  (10)  A.V.  vii.  53,  on  the  same  subject. 

443.  (11)  A.V.  viii.  1,      „         „         „ 
446.    (12)  A. V.  viii.  2,      „         „         „ 

450—473.  SECTION  XXIII.  Brief  Notes  osr  Society  and  Life  m 

THE  VeDIC  age,  as  EBPEESENTED  IN  THE  HTMIfS. 

450.  (1)  The  country  occupied  by  the  Vedio  people,  their  villages 
and  cities. 


xiv  CONTENTS. 

451.      (2)  Their  religious  worsEip. 

463.      (3)  Did  the  Vedic  Indians  make  images  of  their  gods  ? 

454.      (4)  Kings  and  principalities. 

467.  (6)'i)ifferent  ranks  in  society,^-rich  and  poor;  (6)  Domestic 
relations,  polygamy,  remarriage  of  widows,  freedom  of 
women,  levirical  marriages,  sexual  immorality, 

461.      (7)  Dress,  ornaments,  etc. 

463.  (8)  Food  and  drink ;  use  of  wine. 

464.  (9)  Professions  and  trades, — carpentry,  agriculture,  etc. 

466.  (10)  Amusements,  gamhling,  dancers  or  actors  ;  (II)  Crime. 

467.  (12)  Animals,  wild  and  tame. 

469.  (13)  "Wars,  armies,  armour,  and  weapons. 

472.  (14)  Poetry  and  speculation. 

473.  (15)  Conclusion. 

474.  Appendix. 
479.  Index. 


EEEATA  ET   COEEIGENDA. 


Page  22  In  the  page-headings  from  here  to  p.  96,  for  "  The  Indian  gods  generally ' 

substitute  the  headings  of  the  several  subsections. 
Page  34,  line  l,for  "Gau"  read  "Go." 

„     36,     „     i,  tor  "  stanah"  le&di  "  sthSnah." 

„  19,  for  "Varunauta"  read  "Varum  via,'' 

„    T,  for  "51"  read  "5." 

„  10,  for  "sindhwee''  read  " smdkavo,'' 

,,  11,  for  "proa  rnamsi"  read  "pra  armimsi." 

„  10,  after  "foolish"  insert  "vii.  61,  5." 

„  28,  for  "  let  ns  seek  "  read  "  we  seek." 

„     1,  for  "  T."  read  "  yi." 

„     3  from  bottom,  after  "Indra"  insert  "yi.  21,  4." 

„    9  from  bottom,  for  "jaghrmho  "  read  "jagjmusho." 

„    8  from  bottom,  for  "  (6)  "  read  "  (5a)". 

„        last  line,  for  "  tivram  "  read  "  t7vram." 

„    6  from  bottom,  for  "  dare  "  read  "  brave." 

„    2,  for  "  Savita  "  read  "  Savita." 

„    l,/o»- "xiii."  ««<?  "jdiia."' 

„  10,for"92"  read"91." 

„    9,  for  "rodasysh  "  read  "rodasyoh." 

„    4  from  bottom,/or  "viii."  read  "vii." 

„  10,  for  "vrisehad"  read  " vris'ehad." 

„  22,  for"  Tvashta  "  read  "  Tvashta." 

„    5  from  bottom,  for  "  Vivasvat "  read  "  Vivasvat." 

„    S,  for  " Suiya"  read  "  SuTja." 

„  16,/(»-"Pushan"rea<f  "Pushan." 

„    8,for"z'-  read"x." 

„  2i,for  "191,"  read  "91." 

„     l,for  "  xxi."  read  "  xix." 

„  21,  after  "quoted"  insert  "above,  p.  50,  and." 

„    4  from  bottom,  for  "  x&ti  t  uvS'  "  read  "  x*  ti  rwy^." 

„  27,for"19,"read"l,  9." 

„  21,  for  "5i"  read  "5S." 


>' 

46, 

» 

57, 

J) 

62, 

It 

— 

» 

63, 

>» 

67, 

» 

77, 

■i> 

85, 

it 

93, 

»> 

98, 

J» 

107, 

II 

134, 

91 

170, 

»» 

199, 

»» 

200, 

?) 

214, 

J» 

218, 

tt 

224, 

» 

225, 

»> 

228, 

»» 

234, 

» 

237, 

» 

280, 

J» 

284, 

fl 

336, 

H 

350, 

»? 

354, 

» 

387, 

)» 

407, 

ORIGmAL   SAMKRIT   TEXTS. 


■VOLTTMiE     riFTH. 


■tn  t: 


INTEODTJCTION. 


N  the  Fourth  Volume  of  this  work  I  have  collected  the  principal 
passages  of  the  Yedic  Hymns  which  refer  to  the  origin  of  the  uni- 
verse, and  to  the  •characters  of  the  gods  Hiranyagarbha,  Visvakarman, 
Vishnu,  Eudra,  and  the  goddess  Ambika;  and  have  compared  the 
representations  there  given  of  these  deities  with  the  later  stories 
and  speculations  on  the  same  subjects  which  are  to  be  found  in  the 
Brahmanas,  and  in  the  mythological  poems  of  a  more  modern  date. 
In  the  course  of  these  researches,  I  have  also  introduced  occasional 
notices  of  some  of  the  other  Vedio  deities,  such  as  Aditi,  Indra, 
Varuna,  etc. 

In  the  present  volume  I  propose  to  give  a  further  account  of  the 
cosmogony,  mythology,  and  religious  ideas  exhibited  in  the  hymns  of 
the  Eig-veda,^  and  to  compare  these  occasionally  with  the  correspond- 
ing conceptions  of  the  early  Greeks. 

1  This  subject  has  been  already  treated  by  Professor  Roth  in  his  dissertations  on 
"  The  Legend  of  Jemshid  "  and  on  "  The  Highest  Gods  of  the  Arian  Eaces,"  in  the 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  417  ff.  and  tI.  67  ff. ;  by  the  same  writer, 
and  by  Professor  Whitney,  in  the  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  iii.  291  ff., 
and  331  ff. ;  by  Professor  Roth  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vii. 
607  ff. ;  by  Professor  Max  Miiller  in  the  Oxford  Essays  for  1856  (reprinted  in  Chips 
from  a  German  "Workshop,  vol.  ii-  pp.  1  ff.),  and  in  his  History  of  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit. 
pp.  531  ff. ;  by  Professor  "Wilson  in  the  Prefaces  to  the  three  vols,  of  his  translation 
of  the  Rig-veda ;  by  M.  Langlois  in  the  notes  to  his  French  translation  of  the  feig- 

1 


^  INTRODUCTION. 

(^)  -Affinities  of  the  Indian  and  Grecian  myihohgies. 

In  the  Second  Volume  of  this  -work  I  have  stated  the  reasons, 
drawn  from  history  and  from  comparative  phUology,  -which  exist  for 
concluding  that  the  Brahmanical  Indians  helong  to  the  same  race 
as  the  Greek,  the  Latin,  the  Teutonic,  and  other  nations  of  Europe. 
If  this  conclusion  be  well-founded,  it  is  evident  that  ait  the  time  when 
the  several  branches  of  the  great  Indo-European  famUy  separated  to 
commence  their  migrations  in  the  direction  of  their  future  homes,  they 
must  have  possessed  in  common  a  large  stock  of  religious  and  mytho- 
logical conceptions.  This  common  mythology  would,  in  the  natural 
course  of  events,  and  from  the  action  of  various  causes,  undergo  a 
gradual  modification  analogous  to  that  undergone  by  the  common 
language  which  had  originally  been  spoken  by  all  these  tribes  during 
the  period  of  their  union ;  and,  in  the  one  case  as  in  the  other,  this 
modification  would  assume  in  the  difl'erent  races  a  varying  character, 
corresponding  to  the  diversity  of  the  influences  to  which  they  were 
severally  subjected.  We  shall  not,  therefore,  be  surprised  to  find  that 
even  the  oldest  existing  mythology  of  the  Indians  differs  widely  from 
the  oldest  known  mythology  of  the  Greeks,  any  more  than  we  are  to 
find  that  the  Sanskrit  in  its  earliest  surviving  forms  is  a  very  different 
language  from  the  earliest  extant  Greek,  since  the  Vedic  hymns,  the 
most  primitive  remains  of  Sanskrit  poetry,  date  from  a  period  when 
the  two  kindred  races  had  been  separated  for  perhaps  above  a  thousand 
years,  and  the  most  ancient  monuments  of  Greek  literature  are  still 
more  recent.  Tet,  notwithstanding  this  long  separation,  we  might 
reasonably  anticipate  that  some  fragments  of  the  primitive  Indo- 
European  mythology  should  have  remained  common  to  both  the  eastern 
and  the  western  branches  of  the  family ;  while,  at  the  same  time,  we 
should,  of  course,  expect  that  such  traces  of  common  religious  con- 
ceptions would  be  more  distinctly  perceptible  in  the  older  than  in  the 
more  recent  literary  productions  of  the  several  peoples.  And  such,  in 
point  of  fact,  turns  out  to  be  the  case.    The  mythology  of  the  Veda 

veda ;  by  Professor  "Weber,  and  by  Drs.  Kuhn  and  BiiHer,  etc.  etc.  The  substance 
of  some  of  the  following  sections  is  repeated  or  condensed  in  a  paper  -which  I  read 
before  the  Eoyal  Society  of  Edinburgh  in  1864.  See  the  Transactions  of  that  Society, 
Tol.  xxiii,  part  iii.  pp.  647  ff. 


INTEODUCTIOK.  3 

does  exhibit  in  some  points  a  certain  similarity  to  that  of  Homer  and 
Heaiod,  and  the  mutual  resemblance  between  the  religious  ideas  of  those 
ancient  works  is,  upon  the  whole,  greater  than  that  existing  between 
the  later  Indian  and  the  Greek  pantheons.  I  say  that,  upon  the  whole, 
the  older  Indian  mythology  coincides  more  nearly  with  the  Greek  than 
the  later  Indian  mythology  does.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  the  later 
Indian  system  presents  some  points  of  resemblance  with  the  Greek  which 
the  Vedic  system  does  not  exhibit.  I  allude  to  the  fact  that  we  find 
in  the  Indian  epic  poems  and  Puranas  a  god  of  the  sea,  a  god  of  war, 
and  a  goddess  of  love,  who  (the  last  two,  at  least,)  are  unknown  to  the 
oldest  parts  of  the  Veda,  and  yet  correspond  in  a  general  way  to  the 
Poseidon,  the  Ares,  and  the  Aphrodite  of  the  Greeks.  Personi&cations 
of  this  sort  may,  however,  be  either  the  product  of  an  early  instinct 
which  leads  men  to  create  divine  representatives  and  superintendents 
of  every  department  of  nature,  as  weU.  as  of  human  life  and  action ;  or 
they  may  arise  in  part  from  a  later  process  of  imagination  or  reflection 
which  conducts  to  the  same  result,  and  from  a  love  of  systematic  com- 
pleteness which  impels  a  people  to  flU  up  any  blanks  in  their  earlier 
mythology,  and  to  be  always  adding  to  and  modifying  it.  Ke- 
semblances  of  this  last  description,  though  they  are  by  no  means 
accidental,  are  not  necessarily  anything  more  than  the  results  of 
similar  processes  going  on  in  nations  possessing  the  same  general 
tendencies  and  characteristics.  But  the  older  points  of  coincidence 
between  the  religious  ideas  of  the  Greeks  and  the  Indians,  to  which 
reference  was  first  made,  are  of  a  different  character,  and  are  the  un- 
doubted remains  of  an  original  mythology  which  was  common  to  the 
ancestors  of  both  races.  This  is  shown  by  the  fact  that,  in  the 
cases  to  which  I  allude,  it  is  not  only  the  functions,  but  the  names, 
of  the  gods  which  correspond  in  both  literatures. 

(2)  Antiquity  and  peculiarity  qftJie  Vedic  mythology. 

But  the  value  of  the  Vedic  mythology  to  the  general  scholar  does 
not  consist  merely  in  the  circumstance  that  a  few  religious  conceptions, 
and  the  names  of  two  or  three  deities,  are  common  to  it  with  the 
Greek.  It  is  even  more  important  to  observe  that  the  earliest  monu- 
ments of  Indian  poetry,  consisting,  as  they  do,  almost  exclusively  of 


4  INTEODUCTION. 

hymns  in  praise  of  the  national  deities,  and  being  the  productions  of 
an  age  far  anterior  to  that  of  Homer  and  Hesiod,  represent  a  more 
ancient  period  of  religious  development  than  we  discover  in  the  GJreek 
poets,  and  disclose  to  us,  in  the  earliest  stages  of  formation,  a  variety  of 
myths  which  a  few  centuries  later  had  assumed  a  fixed  and  recognised 
form.'  It  is  also  to  be  noticed  that,  from  the  copiousness  of  the  ma- 
terials they  supply,  the  hymns  of  the  Eig-veda  furnish  us  with  far  more 
minute  illustrations  of  the  natural  workings  of  the  human  mind,  in  the 
period  of  its  infancy,  upon  matters  of  religion  than  we  can  find  in  any 
other  literature  whatever.  From  their  higher  antiquity,  these  Indian 
hymns  are  also  fitted  to  throw  light  on  the  meaning  of  a  few  points  of 
the  Greek  system  which  were  before  obscure.  Thus,  as  we  shall  see, 
the  Indian  Dyaus  (sky,  or  heaven)  explains  the  original  meaning  of 
the  Greek  Zeus, "and  the  Sanskrit  Varuna  gives  a  clue  to  the  proper 
signification  of  Ouranos. 

As  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  2nd  edition,  pp.  2-4,'  I  have 
stated  the  grounds  on  which  the  Vedic  hymns  are  assumed  to  have 
been  composed  at  a  period  considerably  more  than  a  thousand  years 
before  our  era,  I  shall  here  take  their  great  antiquity  for  granted,  and 
proceed  to  give  some  account  of  their  cosmogony  and  mythology. 

(3)   Origin  of  cosmogonie  and  mythological  speculation. 

To  a  simple  mind  reflecting,  in  the  early  ages  of  the  world,  on  the 
origin  of  aU  things,  various  solutions  of  the  mystery  might  naturally 
present  themselves.  Sometimes  the  production  of  the  existing  universe 
would  be  ascribed  to  physical,  and  at  other  times  to  spiritual,  powers. 
On  the  one  hand,  the  various  processes  of  growth  and  change  which  are 
constantly  visible  in  all  the  departments  of  nature  might  have  suggested 
the  notion  of  the  world  having  gradually  arisen  out  of  nothing,  or  out 
of  a  pre-existing  undeveloped  substance.  Such  an  idea  of  the  spontan- 
eous evolution  of  all  things  out  of  a  primeval  principle,  or  out  of  indis- 
crete matter,  called Prakriti,  became  at  a  later  period  the  foundation  of  the 
Sankhya  philosophy.     Or,  again,  perceiving  light  and  form  and  colour 

''■  See  Professor  Max  MiiUer's  essay  on  "  Comparative  Mythology,"  in  the  Oxford 
Essays  for  1856,  p.  47,  and  the  reprint  in  Chips  from  a  Gorman  Workshop,  p.  75  f. 
'  See  also  Vol.  II.  pp.  206  ff.  and  Vol.  III.  2ad  ed.  217  f.  and  224. 


INTEODUCTION.  5 

and  beauty  emerge  slowly  every  morning  out  of  a  gloom  in  which  all 
objects  had  before  appeared  to  be  confounded,  the  early  speculator 
might  conceive  that  in  like  manner  the  brightness  and  order  of  the 
world  around  him  had  sprung  necessarily  out  an  antecedent  night  in 
which  the  elements  of  all  things  had  existed  together  in  indistinguish- 
able chaos.  And,  in  fact,  this  idea  of  the  universe  having  arisen  out 
of  darkness  and  chaos  is  the  doctrine  of  one  of  the  later  hymns  of  the 
E.V.  -(x.  129).  Or,  on  the  other  hand,  contemplating  the  results 
effected  by  human  design  and  energy,  and  arguing  from  the  less  to  the 
greater,  or  rather  impelled  by  an  irresistible  instinct  to  create  other 
beings  after  his  own  likeness,*  but  endowed  with  higher  powers,  the 
ancient  thinker  might  feel  that  the  well-ordered  frame  of  nature  could 
not  possibly  have  sprung  into  being  from  any  blind  necessity,  but  must 
have  been  the  work  of  a  conscious  and  intelligent  will.  In  this  stage  of 
thought,  however,  before  the  mind  had  risen  to  the  conception  of  one 
supreme  creator  and  governor  of  all  things,  the  various  departments  of 
nature  were  apportioned  between  different  gods,  each  of  whom  was  im- 
gined  to  preside  over  his  own  especial  domain.  But  these  domains  were 
imperfectly  defined.  One  blended  with  another,  and  might  thus  be  sub- 
ject, in  part,  to  the  rule  of  more  than  one  deity.  Or,  according  to  the 
various  relations  under  which  they  were  regarded,  these  several  pro- 
vinces of  the  creation  might  be  subdivided  among  a  plurality  of 
divinities,  or  varying  forms  of  the  same  divinity.  These  remarks 
might  be  illustrated  by  numerous  instances  drawn  from  the  Vedic 
mythology.  In  considering  the  literary  productions  of  this  same 
period,  we  further  find  that  as  yet  the  difference  between  mind  and 
matter  was  but  imperfectly  conceived,  and  that,  although,  in  some 
cases,  the  distinction  between  some  particular  province  of  nature  and 
the  deity  who  was  supposed  to  preside  over  it  was  clearly  discerned, 
yet  in  other  instances  the  two  things  were  confounded,  and  the  same 
visible  object  was  at  different  times  regarded  diversely,  as  being  either 
a  portion  of  the  inanimate  universe,  or  an  animated  being,  and  a  cos- 

*  Arist.  Pol.  i.  2,  7.  Kal  rohs  9eobs  Si  Sick  toCto  irdvTis  fa<r\  0atriKeiea0ai,  Sti 
KoX  avTol  Sl  ftev  en  teal  vvv,  ti  Se  rb  hpxatov  ^^affiX&ioVTO'  Sxr-Kcp  Se  Kal  tA  ^iSt] 
iavTo7s  a(pofwiov<riv  St  &y8ptinrot,  &vru  Kal  robs  jSious  rav  6swv,  **  And  all  men 
represent  the  gods  as  being  ruled  by  a  king,  because  tbey  themselyes,  either  now,  or 
formerly,  were  so  governed.  And  just  as  men  regard  the  forms,  so  also  they  consider 
the  lives,  of  the  gods,  to  be  similar  to  their  own." 


mTEODUCTION. 


mical  power.  Thus,  in  the  Vedic  hymns,  the  sun,  the  sky,  and  the 
earth,  are  severally  considered,  sometimes  as  natural  objects  governed 
by  particular  gods,  and  sometimes  as  themselves  gods  who  generate  and 
control  other  beings. 


(4)   Variety  in  the  conceptions  of  the  Vedic  poets. 

The  varieties  and  discrepancies  which  are  in  this  way  incident  to  all 
nature-worship,  are,  in  the  case  of  the  Vedic  mythology,  augmented 
by  the  number  of  the  poets  by  whom  it  was  moulded,  and  the  length 
of  time  during  which  it  continued  in  process  of  formation. 

The  Eig-veda  consists  of  more  than  a  thousand  hymnsj  composed  by 
successive  generations  of  poets  during  a  period  of  many  centuries.  In 
these  songs  the  authors  gave  expression  not  only  to  the  notions  of  the 
supernatural  world  which  they  had  inherited  from  their  ancestors,  but 
also  to  their  own  new  conceptions.  In  that  early  age  the  imaginations 
of  men  were  peculiarly  open  to  impressions  from  without;  and  in  a 
country  like  India,  where  the  phenomena  of  nature  are  often  of  the 
most  striking  description,  such  spectators  could  not  fail  to  be  over- 
powered by  their  influence.  The  creative  faculties  of  the  poets  were 
thus  stimulated  to  the  highest  pitch.  In  the  starry  sky,  in  the  dawn, 
in  the  morning  sun  scaling  the  heavens,  in  the  bright  clouds  floating 
across  the  air  and  assuming  all  manner  of  magnificent  or  fantastic 
shapes,  in  the  waters,  in  the  rain,  in  the  storm,  in  the  thunder  and 
lightning,  they  beheld  the  presence  and  agency  of  difierent  divine  powers, 
propitious  or  angry,  whose  characters  corresponded  with  those  of  the 
physical  operations  or  appearances  in  which  they  were  manifested.  In 
the  hymns  composed  under  the  influence  of  any  grand  phenomena,  the 
authors  would  naturally  ascribe  a  peculiar  or  exclusive  importance  to 
the  deities  by  whose  action  these  appeared  to  have  been  produced,  and 
would  celebrate  their  greatness  with  proportionate  fervour.  Other 
poets  might  attribute  the  same  natural  appearances  to  the  agency  of 
other  deities,  whose  greatness  they  would  in  like  manner  extol ;  while 
others  again  would  devote  themselves  in  preference  to  the  service  of 
some  other  god  whose  working  they  seemed  to  witness  in  some  other 
department  of  creation.  In  this  way,  while  the  same  traditional 
divinities  were  acknowledged  by  all,  the  power,  dignity,  and  functions 


INTRODUCTION.  7 

of  each  particular  god  might  be  differently  estimated  by  different  poets, 
or  perhaps  by  the  same  poet,  according  to  the  external  influences  by 
which  he  was  awed  or  inspired  on  each  occasion.  And  it  might  even 
happen  that  some  deity  who  had  formerly  remained  obscure,  would,  by 
the  genius  of  a  new  poet  devoted  to  his  worship,  be  brought  out  into 
greater  prominence.  In  such  circumstances  it  need  not  surprise  us  if 
we  find  one  particular  power  or  deity  in  one  place  put  above,  and  in 
another  place  subordinated  to,  some  other  god ;  sometimes  regarded  as 
the  creator,  and  sometimes  as  the  created.  This  is  very  prominently 
illustrated  in  the  case  of  the  Vedic  divinities,  Dyaus  and  Prithivi, 
Heaven  and  Earth,  to  which  the  second  Section  shall  be  devoted,  and 
by  other  instances  which  will  be  brought  to  light  in  the  following 
pages. 


SECTIOK"    I. 

THE   INDIAK  GODS   GENERALLY,   AS  EEPEESENTED   IN  THE 
EIG-VEDA. 

Before  proceeding  to  offer  some  description  of  the  powers,  functions, 
characters,  and  mutual  relations  of  the  several  deities  celebrated  in 
the  Eig-veda,  I  shall  give  some  account  of  the  general  conceptions 
entertained  by  the  Vedic  poets  and  some  later  Indian  writers,  regard- 
ing their  classes,  numbers,  origin,  and  duration. 

(1)  Yaska's  classification  of  the  gods. 

The  following  classification  of  the  Yedic  gods  is  adduced  by  Yaska  * 
in  his  Nirukta  (vii.  5),  as  being  that  given  by  the  ancient  expositors 
who  preceded  him :  Tisrah  eva  devatah  iti  Nairuktah  Agnih  prithivl- 
stkano  Fayur  vd  Indro  m  antarilcsha-sthanah  Suryo  dyu-sfhanah  \ 
tasam  mahabhagydd  elcaihasyah  a/pi  hahuni  ndmadheydni  bhavanti 
api  vd  harma-prithaktvdd  yathd  hotd  adhuaryur  hrahmd  udgdtd  ity 
apy  ehasya  satah  \  api  vd  prithag  eva  syuh  \  prithag  hi  stutayo  Ihavanti 
tathd  ahhidhdndni  \  "There  are  three  deities  according  to  the  ex- 
pounders of  the  Veda  {WairuMdh),  viz.  Agni,  whose  place  is  on  the 
earth;  Vayu,  or  Indra,  whose  place  is  in  the  air;  and  Surya  (the 
sun),  whose  place  is  in  the  sky.°  These  deities  receive  severally 
many  appellations,  in  consequence  of  their  greatness,  or  of  the  diversity 
of  their  functions,  as  the  names  of  hotri,  adhvaryu,  hrahman,  and  tid- 

»  For  some  account  of  Yaska's  work  see  the  second  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  162  and 
173,  and  my  article  "  On  the  Interpretation  of  the  Veda  "  iu  the  Jonrn.  E.  A.  S.  for 
1866,  pp.  319  S. 

"  Compare  E.V.  x.  158,  1.  Suryo  no  divas  patu  Vato  antarikshat  \  Agnir  nah 
parthivebhyah  \  "  May  the  Sun  preserve  us  from  the  sky,  Vayu  from  the  air,  and 
Agni  from  things  on  earth." 


THE  INDIAN  GODS  AS  EEPEESENTED  IN  THE  EIG-VEDA.  9 

gatri,  are  applied  to  one  and  tte  same  person,  [according  to  tie  parti- 
cular sacrificial  office  which,  he  happens  to  be  fulfilling].  Or  these  gods 
may  all  be  distinct,  for  the  praises  addressed  to  them,  and  also  their 
appellations,  are  distinct. " '  Pursuing  the  triple  classification  here 
indicated,  Taska  proceeds  in  the  latter  part  of  his  -work  to  divide  the 
different  deities,  or  forms  of  the  same  deities,  specified  in  the  fifth 
chapter  of  the  Ifaighantuka  or  Vocabulary,  -which  is  prefixed  to  his 
■work,  into  the  three  orders  of  terrestrial  (Nirukta  vii.  14-ix.  43), 
intermediate  or  aerial  (x.  1-xi.  50),  and  celestial  (xii.  1-46).  I 
shaE  not  reproduce  these  lists,  which  could  not  in  some  places*  be 
thoroughly  understood  without  explanation,  as  they  include  several 
deities  whose  precise  character  and  identification  with  other  divinities 
are  disputed,  and  embrace  a  number  of  objects  which  are  not  gods  at 
all,  but  are  constructively  regarded  as  such  from  their  being  addressed 
in  the  hymns.* 

(2)  Their  number. 

The  gods  are  spoken  of  in  various  texts  of  the  Eig-veda  as  being 
thirty-three  iu  number.     Thus  it  is  said  in  K.Y.  i.  34,  II:  " Come 

'  This  passage  is  quoted  more  at  length  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  133  fif. 

*  The  following  is  the  manner  in  which  Taska  classifies  the  hymns.  I  quote  the 
classification  as  interesting,  though  unconnected  with  my  present  subject :  — He  divides 
(Nir.  yii.  1)  the  hymns,  or  portions  of  hymns,  devoted  to  the  praise  of  the  gods  into 
three  classes,  viz.  (1)  those  in  which  the  gods  are  addressed  in  the  third  person  as 
absent,  as  "  Indra  rules  over  heaven  and  earth"  (x.  89, 10),  etc. ;  (2)  those  which  ad- 
dress them  in  the  second  person  as  present,  such  as  "  0  Indra,  slay  thou  our  enemies  " 
(x.  152,  4),  etc. ;  and  (3)  those  in  which  the  author  speaks  in  the  first  person,  and 
about  himself.  Of  these  the  first  two  classes  are  the  most  numerous.  Again  some  of 
the  hymns  are  merely  laudatory,  as,  "  I  declare  the  valorous  deeds  of  Indra,"  R.V. 
i.  32,  1 ;  others  contain  prayers,  not  praises,  as,  "  may  I  see  clearly  with  my  eyes,  be 
radiant  in  my  face,  and  hear  distinctly  with  my  ears."  Again,  there  are  imprecations, 
as,  "  may  I  die  to-day,  if  I  am  a  Tatudhana  "  (vii.  104,  15),  etc.  Again,  a  particular 
state  of  things  is  described,  as,  "there  was  then  neither  death  nor  immortality" 
(x.  129,  2).  Again,  a  lamentation  is  uttered,  as,  "  the  bright  god  will  fly  away  and 
never  return"  (x.  95,  15).  Or,  praise  and  blame  are  expressed,  as,  "he  who  eats 
alone,  is  alone  in  his  guilt"  (x.  117,  6),  and  "  the  house  of  the  liberal  man  is  like  a 
pond  where  lotuses  grow"  (x.  107, 10) ;  and  in  the  same  way,  in  the  hymn  to  Dice, 
gambling  is  reprehended,  and  agriculture  praised  (x.  34,  13).  "  Thus  the  views  with 
which  the  rishis  beheld  the  hymns  were  very  various."  The  original  text  of  most 
of  this  passage  will  be  found  in  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  211. 


10  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENEEALLY, 

hither,  Nasatyas,  Asvins,  together  with  the  thrice  eleven  gods,'  to 
drink  our  nectar"  (a  nasatya  trilhir  eMdasair  iha  dmebhvr  yatam 
maAhwpeyam,  Akvina). 

Again,  in  i.  45,  2  :  "  Agni,  the  wise  gods  lend  an  ear  to  their  wor- 
shipper. God  with  the  ruddy  steeds,  who  lovest  praise,  bring  hither 
those  three  and  thirty  "  {irushtivano  hi  ddiushe  devah  Agne  vichetashh  \ 
tan  rohidasva  girvams  trayadrimiatam  a  vaha). 

i.  139,  11  (=Taitt.  S.  i.  4,  10, 1).  "Ye  gods,  who  are  eleven  in  the 
sky,  who  are  eleven  on  earth,  and  who  in  your  glory  ^''  are  eleven 
dwellers  in  the  (atmospheric)  waters,  do  ye  welcome  this  our  offering  " 
(y«  devdso  divi  ehadaia  siha  prithivydm  aihi  ekadaia  stha  \  apsuhshito 
mahind  ekdda&a  stha  te  devaso  yajnam  imam  jushadhvani). 

iii.  6.  9.  "Agni  bring  hither  according  to  thy  wont  and  gladden  the 
three  and  thirty  gods  with  their  wives"  {patnwatas  trimkatam  trlmi 
oha  devdn  anushoadham  dvaha  mddayasva). 

viii.  28,  1.  "May  the  three  over  thirty  gods  who  have  visited  our 
sacrificial  grass,  recognize  us,  and  give  us  double  "  "  (y«  trimiati  trayas 
paro  devdso  larhir  dsadan  j  vidann  aha  dvitd  'sanan). 

viii.  30,  2.  "Te  who  are  the  three  and  thirty  gods  worshipped  by 
Manu  (or  man),  when  thus  praised,  may  ye  become  the  destroyers  of 
our  foes"  (iti  stutdso  asatha  risddaso  ye  stha  trayas  cka  trimsaoh  cha  | 
manor  devdh  yajniydsah). 

viii.  35,  3.  "  Asvins,  associated  with  all  the  thrice  eleven  gods,  with 
the  Waters,  the  Maruts,  the  Bhrigus,  and  united  with  the  Dawn  and 
the  Sun,  drink  the  soma"  [visvair  devais  trilhir  ekddaiair  iha  adVhir 
marudhhir  Bhrigubhih  sachdhhuvd  \  safoshasa  JTshasa  Suryena  cha 
somam  pihata  Asvind). 

'  That  is,  as  Sayana  explains,  those  included  in  the  three  classes,  consisting  each 
of  eleven  gods,  specified  in  the  verse  (i.  139,  11),  "  Te  eleven  gods  who  exist  in  the 
sky,"  etc. 

'"  On  this  Sayana]  remarks,  "  Although,  according  to  the  text,  '  There  are  only 
three  gods,'  (Nirukta,  vii.  5),  the  deities  who  represent  the  earth,  etc.,  are  but  three, 
still  through  their  greatness,  i.e..  their  respective  varied  manifestations,  they  amount 
to  thirty-three,  according  to  the  saying,  '  other  manifestations  of  Him  exist  in 
different  places.'"  Compare  S'p.  Br.  xi.  6,  3,  4ff.  The  Atharva-veda  (x.  9,  12) 
divides  the  gods  into  dwellers  in  the  sky,  air,  and  earth  {f/e  devah  dmishado  antariksha- 
sadas  oha  ye  ye  eha  ime  bhumyam  adhi).  And  the  same  Veda  1.  30,  3,  speaks  of  the 
gods  who  dwell  in  the  sky,  on  earth,  in  the  air,  in  plants,  animals,  and  waters  <^ye 
devah  divi  stha  ye  priihivyam  ye  (mtarikahe  oahadhlshu  pas'ushu  apsu  antah), 

''  Eoth  says  that  dvita  does  not  mean  double,  but  assuredly,  especially. 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  Eia-VEDA.  H 

ix.  92,  4.  "0  pure  Soma,  all  these  gods,  thrice  eleven  in  number, 
are  in  thy  secret,"  etc.  '*  (tava  te,  Soma  pwoamana  ninye  visve  devds  tray  ah 
ehadaia). 

This  number  of  thirty-three  gods  is  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana 
(iv.  5,  7,  2)  explained  as  made  up  of  8  Vasus,  11  Eudras,  and  12 
Adityas,  together  with  Dyaus  and^'PrithiTi  (Heaven  and  Earth),  while 
Prajapati  makes  a  thirty-fourth  {ashtau  Vasavah  ekddaia  JRudrdA  dvd- 
dasa  Aditydh  ime  eva  dyava-prithivl  trayastrimsyau  \  trayastrimiad  vai 
devdh  I  Prajdpatis  chatustrimsah).  Or,  according  to  another  passage 
(xi.  6,  3,  5),  the  thirty-three  are  made  up  in  the  same  manner  with 
the  exception  of  Indra  and  Prajapati,  who  are  substituted  for  Heaven 
and  Earth  {te  ehatrimsad  Indrai  chaiva  Prcydpati^  oha  trayastrimiau)}^ 

This  enumeration  could  scarcely  have  been  the  one  contemplated  in 
the  hymns,  as  we  have  seen  that  one  of  the  texts  above  quoted  (Ji.Y.  i. 
139, 11)  assigns  eleven  deities,  who  must  probably  have  been  all  of  the 
same  class,  to  each  of  the  three  spheres,  sky,  air,  and  earth."    It  is 

''  This  number  of  tMrty-three  gods  is  referred  to  in  a  hymn  to  the  sun  in  the 
Mahabharata  iii.  171,  as  joining  in  the  worship  of  that  deity  :  Trayas  triMack  cha 
vai  dmah.  See  also  v.  14019  and  15465  of  the  same  third  hook ;  book  iv.  1769, 
and  book  xiii.  7102.  According  to  the  Eamayana,  Aranyakanda  14,  14  f..  (Bom- 
bay ed.)  Aditi  was  the  mother  of  thirty-three  gods,  Adityas,  Vasus,  and  Rudras,  and 
of  the  two  As'vins  {Adityam  jajnire  devas  trayastrimsad  arindama  \  Adityah  Vasavo 
Sudrah  Ahinau  eha  parantapa).  In  Gorresio's  edit,  the  verse  occurs  in  20,  15. 
See  also  the  S'p.  Br.  xii.  8,  3,  29.  The  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  ii.  3,  5,  1,  says  that  Praja- 
pati had  thirty-three  daughters,  whom  he  gave  in  marriage  to  Soma.  The  A.V.  xi. 
3,  62,  says  that  Prajapati  made  thirty-three  worlds  out  of  the  odana  oblation.  See 
also  E.V.  viii.  39,  9,  Valakhilya,  9,  2.  The  Aitareya  Brahmana,  ii.  18,  Bay.s :  trayas- 
trimsad vai  devah  soma/pas  trayastrimsad  asomapah  |  ashtau  Vasavah  ekadasa  Rudrah 
dvadasa  Adityah  PrajdpafiS  cha  Vashatkaras  cha  etc  devah  somapah  \  ekadasa  praya- 
jah  ekadasa  anwyajah  ekadasa  wpayajah  ete  asomapah  pasu-bhajanah  |  somena  somapan 
prtrmti pasvMa  asomapan  \  "  Thirty-three  goda  are  drinkers  of  Soma,  and  thirty-three  are 
not.  The  eight  Vasus,  the  eleven  Rudras,  the  twelve  Adityas,  Prajapati  and  Vashat- 
kara  are  the  soma-drinkera.  The  eleven  Prayajas,  the  eleven  Anuyajas,  and  the 
eleven  TJpayajas  are  those  who  do  not  drink  it,  but  receive  animal  sacrifices.  He 
(the  sacrificer)  satiates  the  soma-drinkers  with  soma,  and  those  who  do  not  drink  it 
with  animal-sacrifices."  For  an  explanation  of  the  terms  prayaja,  anuyaja,  amd  upa- 
yaja  see  Professor  Haug's  translation  of  the  Ait.  Br.  ii.  110,  notes. 

'3  Compare  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  7,  2,  4.  In  the  sequel  of  the  above  passage  (S'atap.  Br. 
xi.  6,  3,  6)  Dyaus,  Prithivl,  and  Aditya  are  said  to  be  included  among  the  Vasus. 
So  that  it  is  clear  there  is  no  consistency  in  these  accounts. 

"  On  this  division  of  the  universe  into  three  domains,  see  the  remarks  of  Professor 
Roth  in  his  dissertation  on  "The  Highest  Gods  of  the  Arian  Races."  Jour,  Germ. 
Or.  Society,  1862,  p.  68. 


12  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

also  clear  that  this  number  of  thirty-three  gods  could  not  have  em- 
braced the  ■whole  of  the  Vedic  deities,  as  ia  some  of  the  preceding  tests 
Agni,  the  Asvins,  and  the  Maruts  are  separately  specified,  as  if  distinct 
from  the  thirty-three.  Further,  Indra  could  not  have  been,  in  the 
opinion  of  the  author  of  the  Brahmana,  at  least  as  expressed  in  this 
passage,  xi.  6,  3,  5,  one  of  the  twelve  Adityas  (as  he  -was  regarded  at 
a  later  period),  since  he  is  separately  specified  as  making  up  the 
number  of  thirty-three  gods. 

In  the  E.V.  iii.  9,  9  (=  E.V.  x.  52,  6  and  Vaj.  S.  33,  7)  the  gods 
are  mentioned  as  being  much  more  numerous  :  "  Three  hundred,  three 
thousand,  thirty  and  nine  gods  have  -worshipped  Agni,"'' etc.  (trini 
iata  trl  mhasrdni  Agnim  trimsach  cha  devah  nava  cha  asaparyan). 

In  another  passage  (i.  27,  13)  the  gods  are  spoken  of  as  divided  into 
great  and  small,  young  and  old :  "  Eeverence  to  the  great,  reverence 
to  the  small :  reverence  to  the  young,  reverence  to  the  old.  Let  us 
■worship  the  gods  if  we  are  able;  may  I  not,  o  gods,  neglect  the  praise 
of  the  greatest "  (namo  mahadhhyo  namo  arlhakelhyo  namo  yuvabhyo 
namah  aHneWiyah  |  ycyama  devdn  yadi  iahnwoama  na  jyayasah  samsam 
a  sriksM  devah  |). 

I  am  not  aware,  however,  that  this  latter  classification  of  the  gods 
is  alluded  to  in  any  other  of  the  hymns.  In  fact  this  distinction 
among  the  deities  is  denied  in  another  passage,  viii.  30,  1 :  na  hi  vo 
asti  arlhalco  devdso  na  IcumaraJcah  \  visve  satomahantah  it  \  ("None  of 
you,  0  gods,  is  small  or  young:  you  are  all  great  "). 

(3)  Tlieir  origin  and  immortality. 

In  the  Eig-veda  the  gods  are  spoken  of  as  immortal  '^  (as  in  i.  24,  1  ; 
i.72,  2, 10;  i.  189,  3;  iii.  4, 11;  iii!  21,  1;  iv.  42,  1;  vii.ll,  1;  vii.17,4; 
X.  13,  1 ;  X.  65,  15  ;  x.  69,  9 ;  x.  72,  5 ;  but  they  are  not  regarded  in 

'5  The  commentator  remarks  here  that  the  number  of  the  gods  is  declared  in  the 
Brihad  Aranyaka  Upanishad.  See  pp.  642  ff.  of  the  text  of  this  TJpanishad,  printed 
in  the  Bibl.  Ind. ;  and  pp.  205  ff.  of  the  English  translation  in  the  same  series.  The 
same  passage  occurs  in  nearly  the  same  words  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  6,  3, 
4  ff.  On  the  numbers  of  the  gods,  see  a  note  of  Professor  Hang  in  his  Aitareya  Brah- 
mana, ii.  212,  note,  and  the  remarks  by  Dr.  Kuhn  in  his  notice  of  this  paper  in  his 
Zeitschrift,  p.  223. 

w  In  the  Atharva-veda  i.  31,  1,  four  immortals  are  spoken  of  as  the  guardians  of 
the  four  quarters  of  the  sky  {flsanam  asapalebhyai  ohaturbhyo  mnritebhyaJCj, 


AS  EEPEESENTED  IN  THE  EIG-YEDA.  13 

general  as  uubeginning  or  self-existent  beings."  There  are,  as  we  shall 
see  in  the  next  section,  many  passages  in  which  they  are  described  as 
being  the  offspring  of  Heaven  and  Earth.  In  i.  113,  19,  Ushas,  the 
Dawn,  is  characterized  as  the  .mother  of  the  gods  {devanam  mata) ;  in 
ii.  26,  3,  Brahmanaspati  is  caUed  their  father  {devanam  pitaram) ;  in 
ix.  87,  2,  Soma  is  said  to  be  the  father  and  skilful  generator  of  the 
gods  {pita  devanam  janita  sudahshah;  see  also  ix.  42;  4;  ix.  86,  10; 
and  ix.  109,  4) ;  in  ix.  96,  5,  the  same  deity  is  described  as  the  genera- 
tor of  Heaven,  Earth,  Agni,  Surya,  Indra,  and  Vishnu  {janita  divo 
janita  prithivyah  \  janita  Agner  janita  Suryasya  janita  Indrasya  jani- 
tota  VishnoK) ;  in  x.  72,  5,  the  gods  are  declared  to  have  been  bom 
after  Aditi  {ta'm  devah  anv  ajayanta);  in  x.  97,  1,  certain  plants  appear 
to  be  described  as  produced  three  ages  (yugas)  before  the  gods  {yah 
oshadhih  purvdh  jatah  devehhyas  triyugam  pura) ;  whilst  in  x.  .129,  6, 
the  gods  are  said  to  have  been  born  subsequently  to  the  creation  of  the 
universe,  so  that  in  consequence  no  one  can  declare  its  origin  {arvag 
devds  tasya  visarjanena  atha  ho  veda  yatah  a  hahhuva)}^  Varuna,  Mitra, 
Aryaman,  Bhaga,  Daksha,  and  Amsa  are  designated,  in  R.V.  ii.  27,  1, 
and  some  of  them  elsewhere,  as  Adityas,  or  sons  of  Aditi.  The  birth  of 
Indra  is  mentioned  in  various  texts,  and  his  father  and  mother  alluded 
to,  though  not  generally  named '' (iv.  17,  4,  12;  iv.  18,  5,  12;  viii.  45, 
4;  viii.  66,  1;  x.  134,  Iff.).     In  vi.  59,  1,  Indra  and  Agni  are  ad- 

"  This  is  not,  however,  admitted  by  Professor  Max  Miiller,  who  says  (Chips  from 
a  German  Workshop,  i.  38)  "  passages  in  which  the  birth  of  certain  gods  is  men- 
tioned have  a  physical  meaning :  they  refer  to  the  birth  of  the  day,  the  rising  of  the 
sun,  the  return  of  the  year." 

^8  In  the  Atharva-veda  xi.  7,  23,  all  the  gods  are  said  to  have  been  bom  from 
Uchchhishta  or  the  remains  of  the  oblation  [Ueliehhishtaj  jajnire  sane  dim  devah 
divisriidh) ;  and  in  verse  27  the  same  assertion  is  repeated  regarding  them  in  con- 
junction with  the  fathers,  men,  Gandharvas,  and  Apsarases  {devah  pitaro  manmhyah 
Gandharvapsaraaad  cha  ye  \  uohehishtaj  jajnire  sarrn  divi  devah  divisritah).  Compare 
Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  2,  3.  In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  xiv.  2,  2,  2,  it  is  said :  Ayam 
vai  samudro  yo  'yam  pavate  \  eiasmdd  vai  samudrdt  sane  devah  sanani  bhutani 
samuddravanti  |  "  This  which  is  pui'ifitid  is  the  ocean  {eamudra).  From  this  ocean 
all  the  gods,  all  creatures  issue  forth"  {samuddravanti).  The  gods  are  said  to  have 
been  born  in  pairs  according  to  a  passage  of  the  Taittiriya  Samhita  (vi.  5, 6),  referred 
to  by  Sayana  on  E.V.  viii.  72,  8. 

''  In  E.V.  X.  101,  12,  a  goddess  called  Nishtigrl  is  mentioned,  apparently  as  the 
mother  of  Indra  :  Nishtigrydh  putram  a  ehavaya  utaye  Indram  |  "  draw  hither  Indra 
the  son  of  Nishtigri  to  aid  us,"  etc.  Sayana  on  this  passage  identifies  her  with  Aditi, 
viz. :  "  She  who  swallows  up  her  rival  wife  Nishti,  i.e.  Dili."     Indra  is  in  fact 


14  THK  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

dressed  in  these  words :  Satdso  vdmpifaro  demiatravah  Ind/rdgnl  jivatho 
^  ywam  I  "  Tour  fathers,  who  had  the  gods  for  foes,  have  been  slain,  o 
I  Indra  and  Agni ;  hut  you  survive."  But  in  the  next  verse  both  gods 
are  said  to  have  had  one  generator  and  to  he  twin-brothers  (samano  va'ih 
janita  hhratm-a  yu/oam  yamav'ihehamatara).  The  A.V.  i.  30,  2,  speaks 
of  some  of  the  gods  as  being  fathers  and  others  as  being  sons  {ye  vo 
devahpitaro  ye  vha  puiyrah  sachetaso  me  irinuta  idam  uktam).  See  also 
E.V.  X.  63,  2,  which  will  be  quoted  in  the  Section  on  Aditi. 

In  iv.  54,  2  (=Vaj.  S.  33,  54)  it  is  said  that  Savitri  bestows  im- 
mortality, an  excellent  lot,  on  the  gods  {devebhyo  hi  prathamam  yafni- 
yebhyo  amritatvam  smasi  hhdgam  uttamam).^  Agni  is  also  said,  vi.  7, 
4,  by  his  power  or  skiU,  to  confer  immortality  on  the  gods,  who  wor- 
ship him  when  he  is  bom  like  an  infant  and  shines  forth  from  out  of 
his  parents  {Jmdm  vikve  amrita  jayamanam  iUum  na  devah  abJii  sw/h 
nwoante  \  twva  hratuhhir  amritatvam  ay  an  vaiivanara  yat  pitror  adideh). 
In  ix.  106,  8  the  gods  are  said  to  drink  Soma  to  obtain  immortality 
{tvd^  devaso  amritdya  Team  papuh  \  compare  ix.  109,  2,  3).^'  In  x. 
53,  10  some  means  are  alluded  to  (it  is  not  clear  what)  by  which  the 
gods  attained  immortality  {yena  devdso  amritatvam  dnasuh).  In  x. 
167,  1  Indra  is  said  to  have  conquered  heaven  by  austere  fervour 
(tvam  tapah  paritapya  <y'ayah  svah)  ;  and  in  x.  159,  4  he  is  said  to  have 
become  glorious  and  exalted  by  the  offering  of  some  oblation  (j/enendro 
ha/oishd  kritvi  ahhavad  dyumnl  uttamah). 

In  the  A.V.  iv.  23,  6  Agni  is  said  to  have  been  the  author  of  the 
immortality  of  the  gods  {yena  devdh  amritam  anvavindan)  ;  in  the  same 

addressed  as  an  Aditya  along  with  Vanina  in  vii.  85,  4.  He  is  not,  however,  as  we 
have  seen  above,  considered  as  such  in  the  S'p.  Br.  xi.  6,  3,  6,  where  he  is  mentioned 
as  distinct  from  the  twelve  Adityas. 

2"  Sayana  interprets  this  by  saying  that  he  gives  them  soma  and  other  means  of 
attaining  immortality  [amritatvam  tat-aadhanam  uttamam  ■utJcrishtatamam  ihagam 
somadi-lalcshanam  stmasi  anujanasi).  The  same  deity  is  said  i.  110,  3,  to  have  con- 
ferred immortality  on  the  Rihhns  {tat  Savita  vo  amritatvam  asuvat). 

*i  See  S'atapatha  Brahmana  ix.  5,  1,  1-8,  where  it  is  said  that  immortality  de- 
parted from  the. gods  {devebhyo  ha  vai  amritatvam  apaehalcrama),  when  they  set 
themselves  to  recover  it  hy  religious  observances.  They  poured  out  soma  into  Agni 
and  thus  infused  immortality  into  him,  and  by  so  doing  acquired  it  themselves,  as  he 
is  the  soul  of  all  the  gods.  Soma  is  the  principle  of  immortality  {abhishntya  agnav 
ajuhuvuh  |  tad  agnav  amritam  adadhuh  |  sarvesham  u  ha  esha  devanam  atma  yad 
agnih  |  tad  yad  agnav  amritam  adadhus  tad  atmann  amritam  adadhata  \  tato  devalf 
amritah  abhavan  \  tad  yat  tad  amritam  Somah  aafi). 


AS   REPEESENTED  IN  THE  EIG-VEDA.  15 

Veda,  xi.  5,  19,  tte  gods  are  said  to  have  overcome  death  by  continence 
and  austere  fervour  (Jkrahmaohwryena  tapasd  devah  mrityum  apaghnata)  ; 
and,  ibid.  xiii.  1,  7,  to  have  acquired  immortality  through  Eohita 
{yena  devah  amritam  anvavindan).  Compare  the  same  Yeda  iii.  22,  3  ; 
iv.  11,  6;  iv.  14,  1;  S'atap.  Br.  i.  7,  3,  1 ;  Ait.  Br.  vi.  20;  Taitt. 
Sanh.  i.  7,  1,  3,  and  vi.  5,  3,  1 ;  and  the  Mahabharata  xiv.  1444  : 
Tathawa  tapasa  devah  mahamayah  divam  gatah  \ . 

I  have  elsewhere  quoted  a  number  of  passages  from  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  in  which  it  is  related  how  the  gods  became  immortal ;  and 
how,  though  of  the  same  parentage,  and  originally  on  a  footing  of 
equality,  with  the  Asuras,  they  became  superior  to  them."^  (See  the 
4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  47-53;  and  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic 
Society,  vol.  xx.  pp.41-45.) 

According  to  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana  the  gods  obtained  their  divine 
rank  by  austerity  {tapasa  devah  devatdm  agre  ay  an  \  iii.  12,  3,  1). 

In  other  places  some  of  the  gods^  as  Indra  (iii.  46,  1 ;  v.  42,  6),  are 
spoken  of  as  undecaying ;  and  in  vi.  24,  7  it  is  said  of  that  god  that 
neither  autumns  nor  months  wear  him  out,  nor  do  days  cause  him  to 
decay  {na  yam  jaranti  sa/rado  na  masah  na  dyavah  Indram  avaharia- 
yanti).     Whether  or  not  the  Vedic  poets  had  any  conception  of  an 

*^  In  S'atapatha  Brahmana  ii.  4,  2,  1,  it  is  said  that  all;  creatures  came  to  Praja- 
pati,  and  asked  that  they  might  live.  To  the  gods  he  said, "  Sacrifice  is  your  food,  your 
immortality  is  your  support,  the  sun  is  your  light,"  etc.  [yajno  vo  'nnam  amritatvcm 
vah  urg  vah  auryo  vojyotih  |  To  the  passages  of  the  S'.  P.  Br.  regarding  the  manner 
in  which  the  gods  acquired  immortality,  ahove  referred  to,  I  may  add  one  as  yet 
unpuhlished  from  the  India  Oflioe  MS.  of  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita  yii.  4,  2,  1 :  Yatha 
vai  mammhyah  evam  devah  agre  asan  |  te  '  kamayantSvarttim  papmanam  mrityum 
apahatya  daimm  samaadam  gachheina  iii  \  te  etam  ehaturvimsaiiralram  apasyams  tarn 
aharams  tena  ayajanta  tato  vai  te  'varttim  papmanam,  mritywm  apahatya  daivm 
acmsadam  agachchan  \  "  The  gods  were  formerly  just  like  men.  They  desired  to 
oTercome  want,  misery,  death,  and  to  go  to  the  divine  assembly.  They  saw,  took, 
and  sacrificed  with,  this  Chaturvim^atiratra,  and  in  consequence  overcame  want, 
misery,  and  death,  and  reached  the  divine  assembly."  In  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  v.  p.  43a 
(of  India  Office  MS.)  we  are  told  that  "  the  gods  and  Asuras  contended  together ;  and 
that  the  former  were  less  numerous  than  the  latter,  when  they  took  some  bricks  which 
they  saw,  and  placing  them  in  the  proper  position  to  receive  the  sacrificial  fire,  with 
the  formula  '  Thou  art  a  multiplier,'  they  became  numerous  "  {Bevaaiirah  aamyattah 
asan  |  kamyamso  devah  aaan  bhuyamao  'aurah  |  te  devah  etah  ishtakah  apasyan  |  tah 
upadadhanta  "  thvyaakrid  asi  "  ity  eva  hhuyamso  'bhavan).  In  the  Mahabharata, 
S'antip.  1184,  it  is  said  that  in  the  battle  which  they  had  with  each  other  "the 
Asuras  were  the  elder  brothers  and  the  gods  the  younger"  (idam  tu  sruyate  partha 
yuddhe  devaswe  pura  \  asurah  bhrataro  jyeahthaJj,  devas  chapi  yamyaaah). 


16  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENEEALLT, 

absolute  future  eternity  of  the  gods,  does  not  appear.  But,  as  we  have 
seen,  the  authors  of  the  Brahmanas  did  not  regard  them  as  naturally 
and  essentially  immortal ;  and  it  is  at  all  events  evident  that  in  later 
times  their  immortality  was  regarded  as  only  relative,  as  according 
to  the  Puranic  representation  the  gods  are  only  a  portion  of  the  exist- 
ing system  of  the  universe,  and  are  therefore  subject,  as  regards  their 
corporeal  part,  to  the  same  law  of  dissolution  as  other  beings.  See  the 
1st  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.  p.  49,  and  Professor  Wilson's  Sankhya 
Karika,  p.  14.  Thus,  in  a  verse  quoted  in  the  commentary  of  that 
work  (p.  3  of  the  Sanskrit),  it  is  said :  "  Many  thousands  of  Indras 
and  of  other  gods  have,  through  time,  passed  away  in  every  mundane 
age ;  for  time  is  hard  to  overcome "  (hdhunmdra-sahasrani  devandm 
oha  yuge  yuge  \  Mlena  samatUani  halo  hi  duratihramah).  And  in  the 
Sankhya  Aphorisms,  iii.  63,  it  is  said  that  "  the  suffering  arising  from 
decay  and  death  is  common  to  all "  {samanaih  jara-maranadi-jam  duh- 
kJiam) ;  which  the  commentator  interprets  to  mean  that  such  suffering 
is  "  the  common  lot  of  all  beings,  both  those  who  go  upwards  and 
those  who  go  downwards,  from  Brahma  to  things  without  motion" 
{urddhvddho-gatdndm  Brahmddi-sthdvardntdndm  sarvesJidm  eva  jara- 
maranadi-jam  duKkham  sddhdranam).'^  The  souls  which  have  animated 
the  gods,  however,  like  those  which  animate  all  other  corporeal  beings, 
being  eternal  and  imperishable,  must  of  course  survive  all  such  disso- 
lutions, to  be  either  born  again  in  other  forms,  or  become  absorbed  in 
the  supreme  Brahma.  See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Pur.  p.  632,  note  7 ;  and 
the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.  p.  99,  where  it  is  shewn,  on  the 
authority  of  the  Brahma  Sutras  or  of  S'ankara  their  commentator,  that 
the  gods  both  desire  and  are  capable  of  final  emancipation. 

(4)  Different  generations  of  gods  and  their  mutual  relations. 

Two  of  the  passages  above  quoted  (iu  p.  14),  E.V.  vi.  59,  1,  and  A.V.  i. 
30,  2,  imply  that  the  existing  gods  were  successors  of  others  who  had 
previously  existed.  The  former  verse  is  perhaps  illustrated  (as  Prof. 
Aufreoht  has  suggested  to  me)  by  E.T.  iv.  18,  12 :  Kas  te  mdtaram 
vidhavdm  achalcrat  kaywm  has  tvdm  ajighdmsat  charantam  \  has  te  devo 
adhi  mar  dike  dsid  yat  prdhshindh  pitaram  pddagrihya    \   "Who  (o 

ii'  Compare  Eitter's  History  of  Philosophy,  Engl,  transl.  vol.  3,  p.  538. 


AS   REPEESENTED   IN  THE  EIG-VEDA.  11 

Indra)  made  thy  mother  a  widow  ?  Who  sought  to  kill  thee  lying  oi 
moving  ?  What  god  was  present  in  the  fray,  when  thou  didst  slay  thy 
father,  seizing  him  hy  the  foot?  "'^  In  vii.  21,  7,  mention  is  made  oi 
earlier  gods :  "  Even  the  former  gods  '^  admitted  their  powers  to  he 
inferior  to  thy  diviae  prowess  "  (deva^  chit  te  amryaya  purve  anu  Jcshai- 
traya  mamire  sahamsi).  Earlier  gods  are  also  mentioned  in  x.  109,  4, 
though  in  conjunction  with  (unless  we  are  to  understand  them  at 
identified  with)  the  seven  rishis :  "  In  regard  to  her  the  former  gode 
said,  the  seven  rishis  who  sat  down  to  practise  austerity,"  etc.  {demi^ 
etasyam  cmadanta  purve  saptaruhayas  tapase  ye  nisheduh).  An  earliei 
age  of  the  gods  is  mentioned  in  x.  72,  2  f.  :  "  In  the  former  age  of  the 
gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the  non-existent.  In  the  first  age  of  the 
gods  the  existent  sprang  from  the  non-existent "  {devamm  purvye  yugt 
asatahsad  ajayata  \  3.  Devanam  yuge  prathame  asatah  sad  ajayata). 
And  in  R.V.  i.  164,  50  we  have  the  following  verse,  which  is  repeated 
in  X.  90,  16  (the  Purusha  Sukta)  :  yajnena  yajnam  ayajanta  devaa  tarn 
dharmani  prathamani  dsati  \  te  ha  naham  mahimanah  sachanta  yatra 
purve  sadhyah  santi  devah  |  "  With  sacrifice  the  gods  worshipped  the 
sacrifice :  these  were  the  earliest  rites.  These  great  powers  sought 
after  the  sky,  where  are  the  early  Sadhyas,  gods."  ^ 

^  In  explanation  of  this  legend  Sayana  refers  to  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita  vi.  1,  3,  6. 
The  following  is  the  passage  referred  to,  ■which  I  quote  to  show  how  little  light  it 
throws  on  the  text  of  the  E.V, :  Yajno  dahshinam  abhyadhayat  \  tarn  samabhavat  | 
tad  Indro  'chayat  \  so  'manyaia  'iyo  vai  iio  janishyate  sa  idain  bhmiishyati"  iti  \  tarn 
pravisat  \  tasya  Indra  eiiqjayaia  |  so  'manyata  "yo  vai  mad  ito  'paro  janishyate  so 
idam  bhcmishyati"  iti  |  tasya  anvmriiya  yonim  achhinat  |  sa  sutaoasa'bhavat  \  tai 
sutavaiayai  janma  \  tarn  haste  nyaoeshtayata  |  tam  mrigeahu  nyadadhat  |  sa  krishna- 
vishZria  'bhavat  \  "  Indrasya  yonir  asi  ma  ma  himsir"  iti  |  "Tajna  (sacrifice) 
desired  Dakshina  (largess).  He  consorted  with  her.  Indra  was  apprehensive  ol 
this.  He  reflected :  '  whoever  is  bom  of  her  wiU  be  this.'  He  entered  into  her, 
Indra  himself  was  born  of  her.  He  reflected :  '  whoever  is  bom  of  her  besides  me 
will  be  this.'  Having  considered,  he  cut  open  her  womb.  She  produced  a  cow," 
etc.    No  mention  is  here  made  of  his  killing  his  father. 

'5  Sayana  in  loco  says  this  means  Asuras. 

^  I  quote  here  part  of  a  note  from  my  article  On  the  Interpretation  of  the  Veda, 
Jour.  E.A.S.  for  1866,p.  395 :  Taska  tells  us  (Nirukta  xii.  41)  that  the  Nairuktas  under- 
stood the  Sadhyas  to  be  "  the  gods  whose  locality  is  the  sky,"  dymthano  devayanah, 
whilst,  according  to  a  legend  {alchyana)  the  term  denoted  a  former  age  of  the  gods." 
Professor  Wilson  translates  the  word  Sadhyah  in  R.V.  i.  164,  50  by  "  who  are  to  be  pro- 
pitiated," a  sense  not  -assigned  by  Sayana,  who  proposes,  first,  that  of  sadhana  yojnadt- 
ladhana-vantah  Rarmadevah,  "performers,  performers  of  sacrifices,  etc.,  work-gods." 
These  words  are  rendered  by  Prof.  Wilson  in  his  note  on  i.  164, 60,  "  divinities  presiding 


18  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

The  gods  do  not  seem  to  have  lived  always  on  a  friendly  footing  with 
each  other.    It  appears  to  me  that  the  two  following  verses,  R.V.  iv.  30, 

3,  6,  though  otherwise  rendered  by  Professor  "Wilson  (after  Sayana)  are  to 
he  understood  of  Indra  fighting  against  the  gods,  and  not  with  the  gods 
against  the  Asuras  :  3.  Visve  chana  id  ana  tvd  devasah  Indra  yuyudhuh  \ 
yad  aha  naktam  dtirah  \  5.  Yatra  devdn  righayato  viimn  ayudhyah  ekah 
it  I  tvam  Indra  vanun  ahan  \  3.  "Even  all  the  gods  assailed  thee 
Indra,  when  thou  didst  prolong  (?)  day  and  night.  5.  When  thou 
didst  fight  alone  against  all  the  furious  gods,  thou  didst  slay  the 
destructive."     This  interpretation  is  favoured  hy  the  tenor  of  verses 

4,  6,  8-11  of  the  same  hymn." 

(5)  Their  powers  and  prerogatives. 

The  gods  can  do  whatever  they  will ,-  no  mortal,  however  hostile  his 
disposition,  can  thwart  their  designs  (E..V.  viii.  28,  4.  Yatha  vaianti 
devds  tad  id  asat  tad  esham  ndkir  a  minat  |  arava  chana  marttyah).  The 
same  is  said  of  the  Maruts  viii.  20,  17  ;  and  of  Indra  viii.  50,  4;  vui. 
55,  4.    It  is  similarly  declared  in  iii.  56,  1,  that  no  one,  however  skUfiil 

oyer  or  giving  effect  to  religious  acts."  This  does  not,  however,  appear  to  he  the 
real  sense,  as  Mahidhara  onVaj.  S.  31, 17,  tells  us  that  "there  are  two  kinds  of  gods," 
Jcarmadevah,  "work-gods,"  and  ajanadevah,  "gods  hy  hirth,"  the  first  heing  those 
who  had  attained  to  the  condition  of  deities  by  their  eminent  works,  and  the  second 
those  who  were  produced  at  the  beginning  of  the  creation.  The  second  class  is 
superior  to  the  first,  and,  according  to  the  Brihadaranyaka,  a  hundred  enjoyments  of 
the  latter  (the  work-gods),  "  are  only  equal  to  one  single  enjoyment  of  the  former." 
See  all  this  and  more  declared  in  the  Brihadaranyaka  TJpanishad,  pp.  817  ff.  (p.  230  f. 
of  translation),  and  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  p.  1087.  A  second  sense  proposed  for 
sMhyah  by  Sayana  on  R.V.  i.  164,  SO,  is  that  of  the  "  deities  presiding  over  metres," 
ehhando  'bhimaninah,  who  were  Adityas  and  Angirases,  and,  according  to  a  Brah- 
mana, by  worshipping  Agni  were  exalted  to  heaven.  Prof.  Wilson  remarks  in  his 
note :  "  It  would  seem  that  in  Sayana's  day  the  purport  of  the  designation  Sadhya 
had  become  uncertain."  Mahidhara  on  Vaj.  S.  31,  16,  renders  the  term  virad- 
upadhi-aadhakah,  "producers  of  the  condition  of  Viraj." 

2'  I  should  observe  that  the  Brahmanas  constantly  speak  of  the  gods  and  Asuras 
as  being  both  the  offspring  of  Prajapati :  as  contending  together  (S'atap.  Br.  v.  1, 
1, 1 ;  vi.  6,  2,  11;  vi.  6,  3,  2);  and  even  as  being  originally  equal  or  alike  (4th  vol. 
of  this  work,  p.  61).  And  to  prove  that  even  malignant  spirits  may  be  called 
"  gods,"  Prof.  Roth,  s.v.  deva,  quotes  from  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  iii.  5,  4,  1,  a  verse 
to  the  effect :  "  May  Agni  preserve  me  from  the  gods  {devah),  destroyers  of  sacrificers, 
stealers  of  sacrifices,  who  inhabit  the  earth ;  "  and  a  second  text  from  the  A.V.  iii. 
16,  5  :  "Agni,  do  thou  through  the  oblation  repel  the  gods  who  are  destroyers  of 
happiness"  Q  aataglmali). 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA,  19 

and  wise,  can  impede  the  first  and  firm  decrees  of  the  gods  {m  ta 
minanti  mayino  na  dhirah  vrata  devdnam  prathama  dhruvdni).  They 
have  dominion  over  all  creatures  (x.  65,  15.  Bevdn  Vasishtho  amritan 
vavande  ye  vihva  Ihmana  ahhi  pratasthuh).  They  are  supplicated  in 
viii.  30,  3,  not  to  lead  the  worshippers  far  away  from  the  paths  of 
their  ancestor  Mann  (ma  nah  pathah  pitrydd  mdnavdd  adhi  duram 
naishta  pardvatah}.  In  one  passage  (E.V.  x.  33,  8  f.)  a  grateful  priest 
exclaims  that  if  he  were  lord  of  the  immortals  and  of  mortals,  his 
royal  patron's  life  should  be  prolonged;  hut,  he  adds,  no  one,  even 
though  he  attain  the  age  of  a  hundred  years,  can  live  beyond  the  time 
the  gods  appoint;  such  has  been  the  perpetual  course  of  things  (8.  Yad 
Islya  amritdnaM  uta  vd  martydndm  \  Jived  id  maghmd  mama  \  &.  Na 
devdnam  ati  vratam  iatdtmd  ehana  jivati  \  tathd  yujd  vi  va/orite).  In 
another  place,  x.  117,  1,  an  encomiast  of  liberality  expresses  his  as- 
surance that  the  gods  had  not  ordained  him  (or  others)  to  die  of 
hunger,  as  even  the  full-fed  are  overtaken  by  various  forms  of  death 
(Na  vai  u  devdh  kshudham  id  vadham  dadur  uta  dhtam  iipa  gaohhanti 
mrityamaK).  Another  poet  cries  (x.  64,  2)  that  there  is  no  other 
helper  than  the  gods,  on  whom  the  fulfilment  of  all  his  wishes  depends 
{na  mwrditd  vidyate  anyah  ebhyo  deveshu  me  adhi  'kdmdh  ayamsata). 
They  live  in  enjoyment  in  the  region  where  Vishnu  took  his  three 
strides  (viii.  29,  7.  Trini  ekah  urugdyo'vi  chahrame  yatra  devdso  madanti  \ 
comp.  i.  154,  4).  In  iii.  54,  5,  the  rishi  asks  "  who  knows,  who  now 
can  declare,  what  road  leads  to  the  gods  ?  Their  lower  abodes  are 
indeed  perceived,  but  there  are  higher  and  mysterious  manifestations, 
or  regions,  beyond  {ho  addha,  veda  hah  iha  pra  voehad  devdn  aohha  pathya 
hd  sameti  \  dadrisre  eshdm  a/vamd  saidmsi  pareshu  yd  guhyeshu  vrateshw'^). 
On  the  other  hand  the  drinker  of  Soma  attains  to  the  privilege  of 
immortality  and  of  knowing  the  gods  (viii.  48,  3.  Apdma  somam  amri- 
tah  abkama  aganma  jyotvr  aviddma  devdn  \  Comp.  x.  31,  3.  navedaso 
amritdndm  alhurha  \). 

28  The  construction  and  sense  of  the  last  four  words  is  obscure.  They  occur  again 
in  a  different  connection  in  x.  114,  2  (where  howeTcr  yah  is  feminine :  taaam  ni 
ehikyuh  Temayo  nidanam  pareshu  yah  guhyeshu  vrateshu  \  "The  wise  perceive  the 
nature  of  these,  who  [exist]  in  high  and  mysterious  forms,  [or  realms]."  The  sense 
of  enclosure  or  realm  is  assigned  to  the  word  vrata  by  Miiller,  Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  226, 
who  renders  this  last  line  thus  :  The  poets  discoTered  their  (the  Nirptis')  origin,  who 
are  in  the  far  hidden  chambers." 


20  THE   INDIAN    &ODS    GENERALLY. 

The  gods  reward  their  pious  -worshippers  and  punish  those  who 
neglect  their  service:  viii.  2,  18.  lehhoMti  devdh  sunvantam  na  avap- 
naya  sprihayanti  \  "  The  gods  desire  a  man  who  pours  out  libations : 
they  do  not  love  sleep." 

viii.  31,  15.  Miihhu  devavato  rathah  ^uro  va  pritm  hasu  chit  \  devd- 
nam  yah  id  mano  ycyamanah  iyahshati  abhid  ayajvcmo  Ihmiat  \  16.  Na 
yajamana  rishyasi  na  stmvana  na  devayo  \  "  15.  Impetuous  is  the 
chariot  of  the  godly  man,  and  he  is  a  hero  in  every  battle.  The 
sacrificer  who  seeks  to  please  the  gods  overcomes  the  man  who  does 
not  sacrifice.  16.  Thou  dost  not  perish,  o  sacrificer,  nor  thou  who 
offerest  libations,  nor  thou,  o  godly  man." 

vii.  39,  2.  iVa  devasah  kaoatnaxe  \  "  The  gods  are  not  for  {i.e.  they 
are  hot  the  portion  of)  the  illiberal  (or  sluggish)."  Have  the  words  na 
rite  irantasya  mhhydya  devah,  in  iv.  33,  11,  a  similar  meaning  :  "  The 
gods  aie  not  friendly  to  him  who  is  tired  of  the  sacred  rite  "  ?  See  a 
collection  of  texts  to  the  same  effect  as  regards  the  individual  deities 
in  my  article  "  On  the  relations  of  the  priests  to  the  other  classes  of 
society  in  the  Vedic  age,"  Joum.  E.  A.  S.  for  1866,  pp.  286  ff. ;  and 
a  selection  from  them  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.  pp.  269  ff. 

According  to  the  S'atapatha Brahmana,  i.  1,  1,  7,  "the  gods  know  the 
intentions  of  a  man.  They  are  aware  that  he  contemplates  the  per- 
formance of  this  rite,  and  will  make  his  offering  in  the  morning ;  and . 
conseq^uently  they  all  come  to  his  house  and  abide  there"  {Memo  ha  vai 
devdh  mamushyasya  ajdnanti  \  te  enam  etad  vratam  upayantam  viduh 
prdtar  no  yahhyate  iti  \  te  asya  viive  devdh  grihdn  dgaehhmti  te  asya 
griheahu  tipavasanti). 

I  have  here  endeavoured  to  collect  such  characteristics  and  attributes 
as  are  in  the  Yeda  ascribed  to  the  gods  collectively.  In  the  sections 
treating  of  the  several  deities,  the  qualities  and  functions  attributed  to 
each  wiU  be  brought  forward  in  detail. 


21 


SECTION    IL 

DYATJS29    AND    PKITHIVJ. 

I  begin  with.  Dyaus  and  PritMvi  (Heaven  and  Earth),  who  seem  to 
have  been  very  ancient  Aryan  divinities,  and  are  in  many  passages  of 
the  Eig-veda  described  as  the  parents  of  the  other  gods. 

In  addition  to  numerous  detached  verses  in  which  these  deities  are 
introduced  among  other  objects  of  adoration,  are  invited  to  attend 
religious  rites,  and  supplicated  for  different  blessings,  there  are  several 
hymns'"  (i.  159;  i.  160;  i.  185;  iv.  56;  vi.  70;  and  vii.  53),  which 
are  specially  devoted  to  their  honour.  As  a  specimen  of  the  way  in 
which  they  are  addressed,  I  subjoin  a  translation  (very  imperfect,  I 
fear,)  of  some  parts  of  the  159th  and  160th  hymns  of  the  first  book : 

i.  159,  1.  Pra  dyava  yajnaik  prithvol  riidvridha  mahi  gtushe  vida- 
theshu  prachetasd  |  develhir  ye  deva/putre  sudamsasa  ittha  dhiyd  varyani 
prabhushatah  \  2.  Uta  manye  pitur  adruho  mano  mdtur  mahi  svatavai 
tad  hammabhih  \  Bwetasa  pitmra  Ihuma  chaikratwr  uru  prafaydh  amritam 
mrlmabhih  |  "  1.  At  the  festivals  [I  worship]  with  offerings,  and  cele- 
brate the  praises  of,  Heaven  and  Earth,  the  promoters  of  rightequsness, 
the  great,  the  wise,  the  energetic,  who,  having  gods  for  their  offspring, 
thus  lavish,  with  the  gods,  the  choicest  blessings,  in  consequence  oi 
our  hymn.  2.  With  my  invocations  I  adore  the  thought  of  the  bene- 
ficent Eather,  and  that  mighty  inherent  power  of  the  Mother.  The 
prolific  Parents  have  made  aU  creatures,  and  through  their  favours 
(have  conferred)  wide  immortality  on  their  offspring." 

^*  Xte  crude  form  of  this  word  is,  Dyu.  I  employ  the  nominatiTe  3yam,  from  its 
closer  resemblance  to  the  Greek  Zeis.    The  genitive  is  JDwas. 

3»  See  also  A.V.  iv.  26.  Prithivi  alone  is  celebrated  in  E.V.  6,  84,  1  £f.  Hymn  i 
185,  is  translated  and  commented  on  by  M.  Ad.  Eegnier  in  his  E'tnde  sur  I'idiome  de 
Vedas. 


22  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

i.  160,  2.  Uruvyachasa  mahinl  asaichatd  pita  mdta  cha  hhmanani 
rakshatah  \  ....  3.  Ay  am  devandm  apasdm  apastamo  yo  jajdna  rodaal 
visva-sambhuvd  \  m  yo  mame  rafasl  sukratuyayd  ayarebJdh  sTeambhanehhih 
samdnriche  \  4.  Te  no  grindne  mahim  mahi  iravah  hhaitram  dydvd- 
prithivi  dhdsatho  mahat  \  yendlhi  hrishtis  tatandma  vUvahd  pandyywm 
ojo  asme  sam  invatam  \    "2.  Widely  expanded,  yast,  unwearied,  the 

Fatter  and  the  Mother  preserve  all  creatures 4.  He  was  the 

most  skilful  of  the  skilfiil  gods  who  produced  these  two  worlds,  which 
are  heneficent  to  all,  who,  desiring  to  create  an  excellent  work,  stretched 
out  these  regions  and  sustained  them  by  undecaying  supports.  5. 
When  lauded,  may  the  mighty  Heaven  and  earth  bestow  on  us  great 
renown  and  power.  May  they  impart  to  us  laudable  energy  whereby 
we  may  always  control  other  creatures." 

In  the  hymns  Heaven  and  Earth  are  characterized  by  a  profusion  of 
epithets,  not  only  such  as  are  suggested  by  their  various  physical 
characteristics,  as  vastness,  breadth,  profundity,  productiveness,  un- 
changeableness  {w-uvyaehasd,  mahinl,  wvi,  hahuh,  dureanie,  gabhire, 
ghritmati,  madhudughe,  Ihuriretasa,,  payasvatl,  ajare)  (i.  160,  2;  i.  185, 
7 ;  iv.  56,  3 ;  vi.  70,  1,  2) ;  but  also  by  such  as  are  of  a  moral  or 
spiritual  nature,  as  innocuous  or  beneficent,  wise,  promoters  of  righteous- 
ness, {ritdvridhd,  ritdvari,  prachetasd,  adr'uhd)  (i.  159,  1  f. ;  i.  160,  1 ; 
iv.  66,  2 ;  vi.  70,  6 ;  x.  36,  2). 

(1)  Semen  and  Ea/rth  described  as  the  universal  parents. 

The  two  (Heaven  and  Earth)  together  are  styled  parents,  pitard 
(in  i.  159,  2;  iii.  3,  11 ;  vii.  53,  2;  x.  65,  8),  or  mdtard  (in  i.  155, 
3;  ix.  85,  12;  x.  1,  7;  x.  35,  3;"  x.  64,  14),  or  joMitrl 
(dydvd-prithivi  janitri.  E.V.  x.  110,  9).  In  other  passages  the 
Heaven  is  separately  styled  father,  and  the  Earth  mother  (in  E.V, 
i.  89,  4;  i.  90,  7;  i.  159,  2;  i.  160,  2;  i.  185,  11  ;  iv.  1,  10;  v.  42, 
16  ;  V.  43,  2,  15;  vi.  51,  5;  »^  vi.  70,  6;  vi.  72,  2  ;  viii.  92,  2  ;  x. 
54,  3 ;  X.  88,  15  (=  Vaj.  Sanh.  19,  47).     See  also  A.V.  ii.  28,  4;  iii. 

"  Here  they  are  supplicated  to  preserve  the  worshipper  sinless.  In  E.V.  vi.  17 
7,  they  are  called  matara  yahm  riiasya,  "  the  great  parents  of  sacrifice." 

32  The  words  of  the  original  here  are  Syamhpitah  PritUvt  matar  adhrug  Agm 
ihraiar  Vasavo  mrilata  nah  \  "  Father  Heaven,  innoxious  mother  Earth,  brother 
Agni,  Vasus,  be  gracious  to  us."    A.V.  vi.  4,  3  has  Byaushpitar  yavaya  duehhma  ya. 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN   THE    EIG-VBDA,  23 

23,  6;  vi.  4,  3;  vi.  120,  2;  viii.  7,  2;  and  xii.  1,  10.  In  the  same 
Yeda,  xii.  1,  12,  the  poet  says :  "  The  Earth  is  the  mother,  and  I  am 
the  son  of  the  earth  :  Parjanya  is  the  father ;  may  he  nourish  us  {Mats, 
bhumih  putro  aham  prithdvyah  \  Pwrjanyah  pita  sa  u  nah  pipartu). 
Again  in  verse  42  of  the  same  hymn  he  says,  "Eeverence  be  paid  to 
the  Earth,  the  wife  of  Parjanya,  to  her  who  draws  her  richness  from 
showers  {Bhumyai  Parjanya-patnyai  namo  'stu  mrsha-medase).  Here, 
as  it  will  be  noticed,  Parjanya  takes  the  place  of  Dyaus,  as  the  husband 
of  Prithivi.^' 

In  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  iv.  27,  we  have  the  following  reference 
to  the  marriage  of  Heaven  and  Earth :  Imau  vad  lohau  saha  astdm  \ 
tau  vyaitam  \  na  cwarshat  na  samatapat  \  te  panohajanah  na  sama- 
janata  \  tau  devdh  samanayan  \  tau  sarhyantav  etarh  deva-vivaham  vyava- 

hetam  | asau  vai  lokah  imafh  lokam  abhi  pa/ryavwrttata  \  tato  vai 

dyavaprithivl  alhamatam  \  na  dyava  antarihshad  na  antwrihshad  hhumih  \ 
which  is  translated  as  follows  by  Professor  Haug  (vol.  ii.  308) :  "  These 
two  worlds  (heaven  and  earth)  were  once  joined.  (Subsequently)  they 
separated.  (After  their  separation)  there  fell  neither  rain,  nor  was 
there  sunshine.  The  five  classes  of  beings  (gods,  men,  etc.)  then  did 
not  keep  peace  with  one  another.  (Thereupon)  the  gods  brought 
about  a  reconciliation  of  both  these  worlds.  Both  contracted  with  one 
another  a  marriage  according  to  the  rites  observed  by  the  gods."  The 
end  of  the  section  I  render :  "  That  world  approached  this  world : 
thence  were  produced  heaven  and  earth :  neither  the  heaven  nor  the 
earth  was  produced  from  the  air." 

Heaven  and  Earth  are  regarded  as  the  parents  not  only  of  men,  but 
of  the  gods  also,  as  appears  from  the  various  texts  where  they  are 
designated  by  the  epithet  devaputre,  "having  gods  for  their  children" 
(viz.ini.  106,3;  i.  159,  1;  i.  186,  4;"^  iv.  56,2;  vi.  17,7;  vii.  63,  1; 
X.  11,  9).  In  like  manner  it  is  said  (in  vii.  97,  8)  that  "the  divine 
worlds  {i.e.  Heaven  and  Earth),  the  parents  of  the  god,  have  augmented 
Brihaspati  by  their  power"  ^  {devl  devasya  rodasi  jcmitri  Brihaspatirh 

2'  The  Taittiriya  Aranyaka  says,  p.  73 :  Jaya  bhumir  patir  vyoma  |  mithunam  ta 
ityadi  \  "The  Earth  is  the  wife,  the  Sky  is  the  hushand;  they  are  a  pair."     Mana 
says,  ii.  225  :  Mata  prithwyah  murttih  \  "  A  mother  is  an  image  of  the  Earth." 
'*  In  verse  6  of  this  hymn  they  are  called ^'aMiifrl,  "  the  parents." 
•35  In  iii.  63,  7,  and  iv.  2,  16,  the  Angirases  are  said  to  be  dwasputrali,  sons  of 
Dyaus.     See  also  x.  62,  6,  and  3. 


24  THE    INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

vmridhatwr  mahitvd) ;  and  (in  x.  2,  7)  they  are  described  as  having,  in 
conjunction  with  the  waters,  and  with  Tvashtri,  hegotten  Agni  (i/am 
tvd  dydvd-prithivi  yam  tv  dpas  Ihashtd  yam  tvd  sujanimd  jajana).  And 
in  various  passages  they  are  said  to  have  made  {pitard  hhuma  ehahra- 
t-uh),  and  to  sustain  (pita  mdtd  cha  bhuvanam  rahshatah  \  vUvam  tmana 
bibhritho  yad  ha  ndma)  all  creatures  (in  i.  159,  2 ;  i.  160,  2;  i.  185,  1).'* 
In  the  next  Section  we  shall  find  that  according  to  E.V.  x.  63,  2,  a 
threefold  origin  is  ascribed  to  the  gods,  some  of  them  having  been  pro- 
duced from  Aditi,  others  from  the  aerial  waters,  and  others  again  from 
the  earth. 

(2)  Passages  to  the  same  effect  fram  the  classical  authors. 

But  it  is  not  in  ancient  Indian  mythology  alone  that  Heaven  and 
Earth  are  regarded  as  being  the  universal  parents.  It  is  observed  by 
a  recent  Prench  author  that  "the  marriage  of  Heaven  and  Earth  forms 
the  foundation  of  a  hundred  mythologies."  "  According  to  the  Theogony 
of  Hesiod  (116  if.)  the  first  thing  that  arose  out  of  Chaos  was  "the 
broad-bosomed  Earth,  the  firm  abode  cf  all  things  " 

She  in  her  turn  "  produced  the  starry  Heaven,  co-extensive  with  her- 
self, to  envelope  her  on  every  part."  '^  From  the  union  of  these  two 
powers  sprang  Oceanos',  Kronos,  the  Cyclopes,  Eheia,  etc.  (132  £F.); 
and  from  Kronos  and  Eheia  again  were  produced  Zeus,  Here,  and  other 
deities  (453 ff.).  In  his  ""Works  and  Days"  (561)  Hesiod  speaks  of 
the  Earth  as  r?  irivrav  /i-lnvp,  the  earth  the  mother  of  all  things."  ^' 

Among  the  Homeric  hymns  there  is  one  of  19  lines  addressed  to 
"  the  mother  of  all  things"  which  begins  thus  : 

TaTav  vofifi'fiTeipav  &€lffofuUj  ^v6efie0\oyy 

Tlpe<T$la-Triv,  5)  0ep;8ei  ivl  xBovl  Ttivff  Sn6a'  iarlv,  ic.t.A. 

'«  In  one  place  (vi.  SO,  7),  the  waters  are  spoken  of  as  mothers  (janitrih)  of  all 
things  moveable  and  immoveable.  Compare  the  passages  from  the  S'atapatha  Brah- 
mana,  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  15  f. ;  21  f. ;  and  the  texts  given  in  the  1st 
vol.  2nd  ed.  p.  31  f.  .52  f. ;  and  E.V.  x.  121,  7 ;  x.  29,  3.  In  the  A.V.  xix.  64,  1, 
the  waters  themselves  are  said  to  have  sprung  from  time  {kalad  apah  samahhavan). 

"  M.  Albert  Efeville,  Essais  de  Critique  Eeligieuse,  p.  383.  "  Cent  mythologies 
sont  fond6es  but  le  mariage  du  ciel  et  de  la  terre."     See  also  pp.  292  and  298. 

'8  The  original  verses  will  be  found  at  the  close  of  the  section  on  Yaruna. 

''  The  line  in  which  these  words  occur  is  however  supposed  to  be  spurious. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA,  25 

"  I  will  sing  of  the  Eartb,  tte  universal  mother,  the  firmly  based,  the 
most  venerable,  who  feeds  all  creatures  that  are  on  the  ground,"  etc. 
In  V.  6,  it  is  said  that  it  depends  on  her  to  give  life  to  mortals,  and 
to  take  it  away  : 

iriTVia,  (TcS  S'  exerot  Sovvai  Piov  ^S'  &<pe\4(T0ai 
BvTiTots  cLvdpc&TTouny. 

In  verse  16  she  is  addressed  as  a  venerable  goddess,  (reiivii  Bei.,  and  in 
V.  17  as  "  the  mother  of  the  gods,  and  the  spouse  of  the  starry  Ouranos : 

Xaipe  AeSv  /i^THip,  &\ox'  Oiipavoi  aarTep6ei'Tos. 

JEschylus,  in  his  Prometheus  Yinotus,  88  ff.,  makes  Prometheus 
exclaim  "  0  divine  aether,  and  ye  many-winged  blasts,  ye  fountains  of 
the  rivers,  thou  multitudinous  laugh  of  Ocean,  and  thou  Earth,  the 
Universal  Mother ; — and  the  aU-beholding  circle  of  the  Sun  I  invoke: " 

S  5tos  alQ^p  ttol  TaxvTTTepot  irvoal 
TrorafiSov  re  Trrtyal  irovrttuu  re  Kufidray 
ayfipidfiov  yiXaffpu,  trafifMjTop  re  yrj, 
KaX  rhv  "KaviTrTriv  k^kKov  7]\iov  /caXu. 

In  the  Seven  against  Thebes,  16,  Eteocles  speaks  of  "  Mother  Earth, 
the  most  beloved  nurse  "  : 

Fp  T€  fiTjTpl,  <j>iKT(iTri  rpotp^. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  Eumenides  of  the  same  poet  the  Earth  is 
worshipped  as  the  first  prophetess  : 

UpSiTov  /aev  fixfi  T^Se  irpefffieio)  9iwv 
Tijv  TTpari/rnvTiv  rauav. 

And  in  the  41st  fragment  of  ^schylus  (from  the  Danaides)  Aphrodite 

is  introduced  as  saying  i 

ip^  liXv  ayvhs  otrpafbs  Tp&aai  x^<fvB, 
^pais  5e  ya7av  \afi$iivet  yiifwv  rvxetv 
S^Ppos  S'  air"  evpdevTOS  oipavoO  rreaiiv 
eKviTe  yaiav  7j  5e  rlKTsrai  fipoTo79 
lullXwv  Te  iSofTKo:;  koX  filov  Ari/i'liTpiov 
SevSpaTts  &pa  B'  4k  yori^ovTOS  ydfiov 
t4\€l6s  iffTi.  rav  S*  iydj  TrapalrLos. 

"  The  pure  Heaven  loves  to  inflict  on  the  Earth  an  amorous  blow ; 
and  desire  seizes  the  earth  to  obtain  the  nuptial  union.  Eain  falling 
from  the  moist  Heaven  impregnates  the  Earth,  who  brings  forth  for 
mortals  the  food  of  sheep,  and  the  sustenance  of  Demeter.  The  verdure 
of  the  woods  also  is  perfected  by  the  showers  proceeding  from  this 
marriage.     Of  aU  these  things  I  (Aphrodite)  am  in  part  the  cause." 


26  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

Sopiocles  also,  in  his  (Edipus  Coloneus,  1480,  makes  the  chorus 
speak  of  "  Mother  Earth  :  " 

"iKaos,  S  Sttl/iuv,  Tl\aos,  ei  ti  y^ 
fiarept  Tvy^dveis  SL(jtGyyes  tpepotv. 

And  in  his  Antigone,  338,  she  is  characterized  as  "  the  highest  of 
the  deities,  imperishable  and  unwearied :  " 

Beiav  re  rkv  vTrepTdray,  ySv 
&<j)9iTOV,  aKa/idrav  varoTpierat,  K.r.\. 

In  his  Philoctetes,  391,  she  is  addressed  as  "the  all-nurturing  earth, 
the  mother  of  Zeus  himself:  " 

'OpeiTTfpa  Ta/ijSaTi  rS,  /mTep  avToS  Atbs, 
&  rhv  lieyav  TlaKTahhv  cSxp""''"'  Wiiieis. 

Euripides  also,   in  his  Hippolytus,    601,    makes  his  hero   invoke 
"  Mother  Earth  :  " 

S  yaitt  /lijrep  rl\lov  t'  avavrvxcii,  k.t.\. 

So  too  in  the  Helena,  39  : 

US  $x^°^  PpoTuv 
irA^Sous  Te  Kov(pl<reis  firirepa  x^ifva,  k.t.A. 

And  again  in  the  same  drama,  613,  the  heroine  speaks  of  Heaven 
as  the  Father : 

iraTip'  is  ovpavhv 

In  his  Bacchfe,  274,  the  same  poet  makes,  Teiresias  thus  identify 
Earth  with  the  goddess  Demeter : 

SiJo  y^Pt  ^  veayia, 
•rh  TrpSn'  ey  avSpdmoiai,  ATifi^rrip  Bed. 
Tt]  5*  iffriy  6voiia  5*  biriT^pov  ^ov\ei  KdKeij 
aihri  fi%v  h/  ^poi<nv  6KTpe<^«  fiporois, 

"  Two  things,  o  youth,  are  the  first  among  men,  the  goddess  Demeter, 
and  she  is  the  Earth,  Call  her  by  either  name  as  you  please.  She 
nourishes  mortals  with  dry  sustenance."  "  The  second  deity  is  Dio- 
nysus who  gives  them  the  juice  of  the  grape. 

*»  In  describing  the  Egyptian  cosmogony  Diodorus  Sioulus  i.  12  also  thns  connects 
the  Earth  with  Demeter  :  Tiiv  Se  7^^  Sxrirep  ayyei6v  ti  ray  ^voiJ,4vav  iiroKaiifidvovTas 
fiTlTepa  irpoffayopeva'af  Koi  Tovs*'E\\7]yas  5e  Ta6njv  irapairKTja-lajs  A'fifiTiTpav  Ka\cTj/, 
PpaX^  lieraTeBelcrris  Tijs  Xe'leas-  rh  y^p  TraAaibi/  ovoimC^irBcu  77)1'  lairipa,  KoSdvep 
Kol  "rhv  Op<t>ea  irpoimpTvpeiv  KiyovTa  "  717  ii.i\ri)p  Ttdyrav,  Aitivlirtip  n\ovToS6T€ipa." 
"  And  they  say  that,  conceiving  the  Earth  as  a  sort  of  receptacle  of  the  things  which 
were  prodnced,  they  called  her  mother ;  and  that  the  Greeks  in  like  manner  call  her 
Demeter,  with  a  slight  alteration  of  the  letters  {i.e.  Demeter  for  Gemeter) :  for  of 
old  she  was  called  '  Earth  Mother '  (Gen  metSra),  as  Orpheus  too  testifies  when  he 
speaks  of  '  the  Earth  the  mother  of  all  things,  Demeter,  the  giver  of  wealth.'  " 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN    THE    EIG-VEDA,  27 

And  in  the  6th  fragment  from  the  Chrysippus  of  the  same  dramatist 
we  find  the  following  passage : 

roio  fieyla'TTi  Kol  Aths  aiOiip, 

6  fihv  cLpBpdjTrwv  KoX  9eav  yepirap, 

7]  S'  bypo^6\ovs  ffTay6vas  vorlovs 

irapaSe^afieptj  t(kt€1  Bvarobs, 

tIktu  Si  Popciy,  <j>dKa  re  6ripuv, 

H0ev  oiiK  iSiKas 

fiilT'Op  iriiyTwv  vev6fiiffTai. 

"  The  mighty  Earth,  and  Jove's  ^ther, — of  these  the  one  is  the  gene- 
rator of  men  and  gods,  and  the  other,  receiving  the  drops  of  moisture, 
produces  mortals,  produces  food,  and  the  tribes  of  animals ; — whence 
she  is  not  unjustly  regarded  as  the  mother  of  all."  " 

The  earth  also  appears  to  be  regarded  by  Pindar  (Nem.  6,  1  tf.)  as 
the  common  parent,  or  sustainer,  of  both  gods  and  men  : 

*Ev  ^pBpuV)  el'  Beau  y4yos'  Ik  [itas  Se  Trveofiev 
/iarphs  ii,fi<j>6Tepof 

"  There  is  one  race  of  men,  and  one  of  gods ;  but  we  both  draw  our 
breath  from  the  same  mother." 

In  the  following  passage  of  Dionysius  of  Halicarnassus,  vol.  v.  p.  355 
(Diod.  Sic.  i.  7  ;"  Euseb.  P.  E.  i.  p.  20*)",  and  in  the  fragment  of  Euri- 

*^  See  also  Plato,  Repub.  iii.  20 ;  'EirfiSi;  Se  imvTeKus  4^eipya<rp.evoi  ^aav  koX 
T\  yri  avTovs  fi'^TTjp  o?<ra  ap^Ke,  k.t.A.  "  But  ■when  they  were  perfectly  fashioned, 
and  the  earth,  their  mother,  sent  them  forth,"  etc.  See  also  the  Menexenus,  Sect.  7  : 
from  which  I  extract  the  following :  8  81)  xai  i)  Tifierepa  yrj  re  ical  /i^TTjp  ticaphp 
TeKfjffjptop  irape'x^''"'  ^^  apdpt&TTovs  yepPTjiraiMepri'  ^  •  >  ov  yap  yij  yvpoiKa  fiefiifiTjTat 
KuV«'  Knl  yepvi)<rei  diAAa  yvv))  yrjv.  "  Whereby  our  own  land  and  mother  (Attica) 
gives  sufficient  proof  that  she  has  produced  men,"  etc.  And  :  "  For  the  earth  does 
not  imitate  woman  in  becoming  pregnant,  and  bearing  offspring,  but  woman  the  earth." 

^2  Diodorus  begins  the  passage  1.  7,  in  which  he  introduces  these  lines  from  Euri- 
pides, as  follows  :  He  tells  us  that  in  the  opinion  of  some  speculators  "  heaven  and 
earth  had,  according  to  the  original  constitution  of  things,  but  one  form,  the  natural 
properties  of  the  two  being  blended ;  but  that  afterwards,  when  the  body  of  the  one 
had  become  separated  from  that  of  the  other,  the  world  assumed  that  regular  arrange- 
ment which  we  now  witness,"  etc.  {icwrh,  yap  r)\p  e|  ipx'!^  '"'"''  STV-My  ffisToaip  /ilap 
eX^'"  '8eov  ovpap6v  Te  Kol  y7)P,  fiefuyiiepris  avTup  t^$  ^iaeaii-  ixerk  Se  toCtb  5ia- 
aripTap  tup  aap.i.Tap  aw'  aKKi\Kav  Thp  jxep  KSfffiOV  TrepiXafietp  S,ira<rap  r^v  SpufiepriP 
ip  avT^  aipra^ip,  k.t.X.).  After  giving  the  details  of  this  development,  he  concludes  : 
"  And  in  regard  to  the  nature  of  the  universe,  Euripides,  who  was  a  disciple  of 
Anaxagoras,  the  physical  philosopher,  does  not  appear  to  have  differed  from  the'  views 
which  have  been  stated  "  [ioiKe  Se  irepX  t^s  tup  8Awv  ipiaeas  oiiS'  EiptvlSris  Sio- 
ifiupelp  Tois  irpoeipTiiiepois,' liaBryriis  &p 'Ayaiayopov  toB  <pv(riKov).  He  then  quotes 
the  lines  given  in  the  text. 

*s  See  "W.  Dindorf's  Euripides,  vol.  ii.  p.  915,  ed.  Oxford,  1833. 


28  THE   INDIAK   GODS    GENERALLY, 

pides,  -wMch  is  there  preserved,  we  find  that  a  doctrine,  partly  similar 
to  that  of  the  Aitareya  Brahmana  addiiced  above,  regarding  heaven 
and  earth,  is  ascribed  to  the  philosopher  Anaxagoras,  and  was  ex- 
pressed by  his  disciple  the  poet : 

'Ava^ay6p(f  vpoffefolTtiffev  EvprniStis.  'Ava^ay6pov  Se  \6yos  iffrly  in  vavra 
ip  ttSo'ii',  eTto  Strrepov  SieKpUi)..  jiteTct  ravra  a>ni\ritre  Kol  ^uKpoerei,  nal  hrl  rh  i,iro- 
pdrepov  ijyayi  -rhv  \iyov.      iiioKoyei    oSc   ttjc    SiSaaKa\ittV  t})!/   ipxaiar   Sii    rrjs 

MsKaviinrTjs' 

KovK  ifxhs  6  fjLv6os,  o\A*  efiTJs  fiTjrphs  irdpa, 
&s  o\)pav6s  Te  yaii.  t*  ?iv  fiop(f>^  fiia' 

rlKTovffi  "jniyTa  Khvi^wKav  els  tpdos 

SevSpri,  ircTefyct,  Bijpas,^  oSs  0*  a\fnj  rpetpeiy, 

yevos  T6  QvTjTuv, 

"Euripides  frequented  the  lectures  of  Anaxagoras.  Now  it  was  the 
theory  of  that  philosopher  that  all  things  were  confounded  {Ui.  all 
things  were  in  all  things),  but  afterwards  became  separated.  Euripides 
afterwards  associated  with  Socrates,  and  became  doubtful  regarding 
the  theory.  He  accordingly  admits  the  ancient  doctrine  by  the 
mouth  of  Melanippe :  '  The  saying  is  not  mine  but  came  from  my 
mother,  that  formerly  the  Heaven  and  Earth  formed  one  substance : 
but  when  they  were  separated  from  each  other,  they  gave  birth  to  all 
things,  and  brought  them  forth  into  the  light,  trees,  birds,  beasts, 
fishes,  and  the  race  of  mortals.'  " 

The  appellation  of  mother  is  naturally  applied  to  the  earth,  as  the 
source  from  which  all  vegetable  products  spring,  as  well  as  the  home 
of  all  living  creatures.  This  is  remarked  by  Lucretius,  "  De  Eerum 
Ifatura,"  in  these  lines,  v.  793  ff.  : 

"  Nam  neque  de  cselo  cecidisse  animalia  possunt. 
Nee  terrestria  de  salsis  exisse  laounis : 
Linquitur  ut  merito  maternum  nomen  adepta 
Terra  sit,  e  terra  quoniam  sunt  cuncta  creata,"  etc. 

And  again,  t.  821 : 

"  Quare  etiam  atque  etiam  maternum  nomen  adepta 
Terra  tenet  merito,  quoniam  genus  ipsa  creavit 
Humanum  atque  animal  prope  oerto  tempore  fudit,"  etc. 

And  in  illustration  of  the  idea  that  Heaven  is  the  father  of  all  things, 

I  may  quote  his  words,  ii.  991 : 

"  Denique  cselesti  sumus  omnes  semine  oriundi  : 
Omnibus  Ule  idem  pater  est,  unde  alma  liquentis 


AS    EEPRESENTED    IN    THE    EIG-VEDA.  29 

Umoris  guttas  mater  cum  terra  recepit,** 
Feta  parit  nitidas  fruges  arbustaque  laeta 
Et  genua  humanum,"  etc. 

And  ii.  998  : 

"  Qua  propter  merito  maiernum  nomen  adepta  est. 
Cedit  idem  retro  de  terra  quod  fuit  ante, 
In  terras,  et  quod  missumst  ex  setheris  oris 
Id  rursum  obbU  rellatum  templa  receptant." 

See  also  v.  799  : 

"  Quo  minus  est  mirum,  si  turn  sunt  plura  coorta 
Et  majora,  noyS  teUure  atque  sefhere  adulta,"  etc. 

My  attention  was  drawn  to  these  passages  by  finding  them  referred  to 

in  Professor  Sellar's  "Eoman  Poets  of  the  Eepublic,"  pp.  236,  247,, 

and  276.     See  also  Lncretius  i.  250  : 

Postremo  pereuut  imbres,  ubi  eos  J)ater  aether 
In  gremium  matris  terrai  praecipitavit ; 

And  V.  318  : 

Denique  jam  tuere  hoc,  circum  supraque  quod  omnem, 
Continet  ampleiu  terram : 

See  also  Pacuvius  86,  quoted  by  Mr.  Munro  in  his  Notes  on  Lucretius 

V.  318,  and  Yirgil,  Georgics  ii.  325,  cited  in  his  note  on  Lucr.  i.  250  : 

Turn  pater  omnipotens  fecundis  imbribus  aether 
Conjugis  in  gremium  laetae  descendit  et  omnis 
Magnus  alit  magno  commixtus  corpore  fetus. 

Mr.  Munro  there  remarks :  "  From  the  Vedas  to  the  Pervigilium 
Veneris  poets  and  philosophers  love  to  celebrate  this  union  of  ether 
and  earth,  ether  as  father  descending  in  showers  into  the  lap  of  mother 
earth."  See  the  same  author's  notes  on  Lucr.  ii.  991.*°  Tacitus,  too, 
informs  us  in  his  Germania,  40 :  Nee  quidquam  notabile  in  singulis  nisi 
quod  in  commune  Ertham,  it  ed  Terram  matrem,  colunt,  eamque  inter- 
venire  rebus  hominum,  invehi  populis  arbitrantur.**  "  I^or  is  there 
anything  in  regard  to  particular  points  which  deserves  remark  except 
that  they  aU  together  worship  Ertha,  i.e.  Mother  Earth,  and  think 
that  she  intervenes  in  the  affairs  of  men,  and  moves  rotind  among  the 
nations." 

w  Compare  A.V.  xii.  1,  12,  42,  quoted  above,  p.  23. 

*°  See  also  Professor  Max  Muller's  Lectures  on  Language,  ii.  459,  and  Mr.  C. 
Bruce'a  paper  "  On  the  Vedic  Conception  of  the  Earth,"  Joum.  B.  A.  S.  xix.  330  ff. 

**  Ed.  F.  Ritter  (Cambridge  and  London,  1848)  who  substitutes  Ertham  for  the 
common  reading  Kertham.    See  his  Notes  in  loco,  and  on  Section  9. 


30  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENEEALLY, 


(3)  Heaven  and  emrth  elsewhere  spolcen  of  as  created. 

On  the  other  hand,  Heaven  and  Earth  are  spoken  of  in  other  places 
as  themselves  created.  Thus  it  is  said  (i.  160,  4;  iv.  66,  3),  that  he 
who  produced  heaven  and  earth  must  have  been  the  most  skilful 
artizan  of  all  the  gods  *'  {ay am  devanam  apasam  a/pastamo  yo  jajana 
rodasl  viiva^ambhuva :  sa  it  svapd  hhtmaneshu  asa  yah  ime  dyam-pri- 
jcyana).     Again,  Indra  is  described  as  their  creator  {janita  dmo 

lita  prithivyah)  (vi.  30,  5;  viii.  36,  4);^'  as  having  beautifally 
fashioned  them  by  his  power  and  skill  (x.  29,  6,  mat/re  nu  te  sumite 
Indra  puni  dyaur  m(ymana  prithivl  havyena) ;  as  having  generated 
from  his  own  body  the  father  and  the  mother  (by  which  heaven 
and  earth  are  clearly  intended  (x.  54,  3,  Kah  u  nu  te  mahimanah 
samasya  asmat  purve  rishayo  antam  apuh  \  yam,  mataram  cha 
pita/ram  cha  sakam  ajanayathas  tanvah  svayah) ;  as  having  bestowed 
them  on  his  worshippers  (iii.  34,  8.  Sasdna  yah  prithimm  dyam 
utemam) ;  as  sustaining  and  upholding  them  (dadhara  yah  prithivlm 
dyam  utemam)  (iii.  32,  8 ;  iii.  44,  3 ;  vi.  17,  7 ;  x.  65,  1) ; "  as 
grasping  them  in  his  hand  (iii.  30,  5.  Ime  chid  Indra  rodasi  apare  yat 
samgrihhnah  maghavan  ha§ir  it  te) ;  as  stretching  them  out  like  a  hide 
(viii.  6.  5.  Ojas  tad  asya  titvishe  ubhe  yat  samavarttayat  \  Indras  ohar- 
meva  rodasi).  The  same  deity  is  elsewhere  (vi.  30,  1)  said  to  transcend 
heaven  and  earth,  which  are  equal  to  only  a  half  of  the  god  ^  {Pra 

"  This  phrase  is,  perhaps,  primarily  meant  as  an  eulogy  of  the  heaven  and  earth, 
hy  expressing  that  he  must  have  been  a  most  glorious  being  who  was  the  author  of 
so  grand  a  production  as  heaven  and  earth  (see  Sayana  on  E.V.  i.  160,  4,  who  says, 
"that  having  in  the  previous  verse  magnified  the  heaven  and  earth  by  lauding 
their  son  the  sun,  the  poet  now  magnifies  them  by  exalting  their  maker  ").  But  it 
also  appears  to  intimate  that,  in  the  idea  of  the  writer,  the  heaven  and  earth  were, 
after  all,  produced  by  some  greater  being.  In  iv.  17,  4,  it  is  similarly  said  that  "  the 
maker  of  Indra  was  a  most  skilful  artist." 

*s  The  A.V.  xii.  1.  10,  says:  "May  our  mother  the  earth  whom  Indra,  the  lord 
of  power,  made,  friendly  to  himself,  give  milk  to  me  her  son  {Indro  yam  chdkre  at- 
mane  anamitram  iacKipatih  \  sa  no  hhumir  viarijatam  mata  putraya  me  pay  ah. 

49  Who  are  the  sons  or  children  of  Indra's  brother  {ihratuh  putran)  mentioned  in 
this  verse,  and  who  is  the  brother  ? 

«»  In  viii.  59,  S,  it  is  said :  "  If,  Indra,  a  hundred  heavens  and  a  hundred  earths 
were  thine,  a  thousand  suns  could  not  equal  thee,  thunderer,  nor  anything  bom, 
nor  both  worlds"  l^ad  dyamh  Indra  te  iatam  iatam  bhumir  uta  syuh  \  na  tva  vc(/rin 
sahasram  suryah  anu  najatam  ashta  rodasi). 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN    THE    EIG-VEDA.  31 

rvriche  dmah  Indrah  pritMvyah  a/rddham  id  asya  prati  rodasl  ulhe) ; 
and  ttey  are  further  represented  as  following  him  as  a  chariot  wheel  a 
horse  (viii.  6,  38.  Anu  tva  rodasl  uhhe  ehalcram  na  vartti  etaiani) ;  as 
bowing  down  before  him  (i.  131,  1.  Indraya  hi  Bycmr  asvro  anamnata 
Indraya  mahi  prithivi  vwrimabhih) ;  °'  as  trembling  from  fear  of  him  (iv. 
17,  2.  Tma  tvisho  janiman  rejata  Byauk  r^ad  hhumir  bhiyasd  svasya 
manyoh^^  \  See  also  iv.  22,  3f. ;  vi.  17,  9;  viii.  86,  14) ;  as  being  dis- 
turbed by  his  greatness  (vii.  23,  3.  Vi  hadhishta  rodasl  mahitvd  Indrah); 
as  subject  to  his  dominion  (x.  89, 10.  Indro  divah  Indrah  Ue  prithi- 
vyah) ;  and  as  doing  homage  to  his  power  (viii.  82,  12.  Adha  te  apra- 
tishlcutam  dem.  iushmam  saparyatah  \  uhhe  suiipra  rodasl).  The  creation 
of  heaven  and  earth  is  also  ascribed  to  other  deities,  as  to  Soma  and 
Pushan  (ii.  40,  1.  Somapushana  janana  rayinafh,  janana  divo  jandna 
prithivyah) ;  to  Soma  (ix.  98,  9.  8a  vam  yajneshu  Manavl  Indu/r 
janishta  rodasl  \  devo  devl  ityadi  \  ^  See  also  is.  90,  1 ;  ix.  96,  5)  ;  to 
Dhatri  (x.  190,  3.  Suryd-chandramasaw  Dhdta  yathapurvam^^  akal- 
payat  \  divafh  cha  prithivlm  cha  antarihsham  afho  svah);  to  Hiranya- 
garbha  (x.  121,  9.  Ma  no  himslj  janita  yah  prithivyah  yo  va  divam 
satyadharmd  jajana  \  Comp.  v.  5) ;  they  are  declared  to  have  received 
their  shape  and  variety  of  forms,  from  Tvashtri,  though  themselves 
parents  (x.  110,  9.  Yah  ime  dyavaprithivl  janitrl  rupair  apimiad  hhu- 
vanani  viha) ;  to  have  sprung  respectively  from  the  head  and  the  feet 
of  Purusha  (x.  90,  14,  Nabhyah  asya  anta/rihsham  klrshno  dyauh  sama- 
va/rttata  \  padhhyam  hhumih) ;  and  to  be  sustained  or  supported  by 
Mitra  (iii.  59,  1),  by  Savitri  (iv.  63,  2;  x.  149,  1.  Savitd  yantraih  pri- 

*'  Heaven  (Dyaus)  is  here  styled  asurah,  "  the  divine,"  as  also  in  iii.  S3,  7. 

52  It  might  at  first  sight  appear  as  if,  according  to  the  fourth  verse  of  this  hymn 
(iv.  17,  4),  the  Heaven,  Dyaus,  was  the  father  of  Indra  (see  Professor  'Wilson's 
translation,  vol.  iii.  p.  151).  But  the  meaning  seems  to  be  :  "  The  Heaven  esteemed 
that  thy  father  was  a  stalwart  hero :  he  was  a  most  skilful  artist  who  made 
Indra,  who  produced  the  celestial  thunderer,  unshaken,  as  the  world  (cannot  he 
shaken)  from  ita  place."  This  is  confirmed  by  verse  1,  which  says  that  the  Heaven 
acknowledged  Indra's  power ;  and  by  verse  2,  which  represents  it  as  trembling  at  his 
birth.     See  also  vi.  72,  3. 

5'  The  two  worlds,  rodaai,  are  here  styled  devl,  "  divine,"  and  manavl,  "human," 
or  "connected  with  men,"  or  "friendly  to  men." 

'*  It  is  remarkable  that  here  Dhatri  ia  said  to  have  formed  the  sun,  moon,  sky, 
earth,  air,  and  heaven,  as  before ;  as  if,  agreeably  to  the  Puranio  conception,  they 
had  previously  existed,  and  been  destroyed.  See  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed. 
pp.  61,  66,  76. 


32  THE    INDIAN   GODS    GENEEALLY, 

thivim  aramndd  askambhane  Scwitd  dyam  adrirhhat),  by  Varuna  (vi.  70, 
1 ;  vii.  86,  1 ;  viii.  42,  1),  by  Indra  and  Soma  (vi.  72,  2),  by  Soma 
(ix.  87,  2),  and  by  Hiranyagarbha  (x.  121,  5). 

(4)  Speculations  about  their  origin. 

In  otter  passages  we  encounter  various  speculations  about  their 
origin.  In  i.  185,  1,  the  perplexed  poet  enquires,  "Which  of 
these  two  was  the  first, ^^  and  which  the  last?  How  have  they 
been  produced?  Sages,  who  knows?"  (Kata/rS.  purva  hatara  apa/ra 
ay  oh  hatha  jate  kamayoh  ho  vi  veda)}^  In  vii.  34,  2,  the  waters  are 
said  to  know  the  birth-place  of  heaven  and  earth  {viduh  prithvvydh 
divo  janitrafh  Srinvanti  dpo  adha  hsha/rantih).  In  x.  31,  7,  the  Eishi 
asks:  ""What  was  the  forest,  what  was  the  tree,  from  which  they 
fashioned  the  heaven  and  the  earth,  which  abide  undecaying  and  per- 
petual, (whilst)  the  days  and  many  dawns  have  disappeared  ?  "  (Jcim 
svid  vanam  hah  u  sa  vrihshah  asa  yato  dyava-prithivi  nishtafah^huh  \ 
samtasthane  ajare  itauti  ahdni  purvlr  ushaso  j'aranta).  This  question  is 
repeated  in  x.  81,  4 ;  ^  and  in  the  same  hymn  (verses  2  and  3)  the  , 
creation  of  heaven  and  earth  is  ascribed  to  the  sole  agency  of  the  god 
Yi^vakarman :  ^  2.  "  "What  was  the  support,  what  and  how  was  the 
basis  from  which  by  his  might  the  aU-seeing  Visvakarman  produced 
the  earth,  and  spread  out  the  sky  ?  3.  The  one  god  who  has  on  every 
side  eyes,  faces,  arms,  and  feet,  blows  with  his  arms  and  his  wings, 
when  producing" the  heaven  and  earth"  (2.  Xiin  svid  asid  adhishthdnam 
drambhanam  hatamat  svit  hatha  dsit  \  yato  bhumirh  janayan  Fiivaharmd 
vi  dydm  aurnod  mahind  visvachakshdh  \  3.  VisvataSchakshur  uta  visvato- 
mukho  visvatobdhw  uta  viSvataspat  \  sam  bdhubhyam  dhamati  sam  pata- 

55  S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  1,  2,  10,  ft/am  priihivi  bhutasya  prathama-ja,  "  This  earth  is 
the  firstborn  of  created  things." 

56  Compare  Professor  MiiUer's  Lectures  on  Language,  ii.  488,  and  Nirukta  ui.  22. 
5'  See  also  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6,  where  the  answer  is  given,  "  Brahma  was  the 

forest,  Brahma  was  that  tree  from  which  they  fashioned  heaven  and  earth  "  {Brahma 
vanam  Brahma  sa  mkshah  asid  yato  dyamprithivi  nishtatakshuh).  In  A.  V.  xii.  1, 
60,  "Visvakarman  is  said  to  have  sought  the  earth  with  an  oblation  when  she  had 
entered  into  the  fluid  atmosphere  {yam  anvaichhad  VisvaJcarmd  antar  arnave  rajaai 
pra/DisMam).  Compare  the  accounts  in  the  Brahmanas  and  Puranas  of  the  earth 
heing  sunk  beneath  the  waters  ait  the  creation,  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.  pp. 
50-S5,  76. 
68  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  4  ff.,  and  Hang's  Aitareya  Brahmaua,  ii  299. 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN   THE   EIG-VEDA.  33 

irOiir  dyavd-^huml  janayam  devah  ehah).  In  x.  72,  which  ■will  he 
quoted  in  the  next  section,  a  different  account  is  given  of  the  origin  of 
heaven  and  earth.  In  E.V.  x.  129,  1,  it  is  said  that  originally  there 
was  "  nothing  either  non-existent  or  existent,  no  atmosphere  or  sky 
heyond"  (na  asad  asid  no  sad  dslt  tadaniM  na  asid  rajo  no  vyoma  paro 
yat);  and  in  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  2,  9,  1  ff.,  it  is  declared,  that  "formerly 
nothing  existed,  neither  heaven,  nor  earth,  nor  atmosphere,''  and  their 
formation  is  described :  ^'  That,  being  non-existent,  resolved,  '  Let  me 
become,'  "  etc.  {idawi  vai  agre  naiva  hi'^ohflna  asU  \  m  dyaur  dslt  \  na 
prithivi  I  na  antariksham  \  tad  asa^  eva  san  mano  'fcifruta  "  sydm  "  iti  \ 
The  passage  is  quoted  at  length  in  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  27  ff.) 

It  is,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  24),  a  conception  of  the  Greek,  as 
well  as  of  the  oldest  Jndian,  mythology,  that  the  gods  sprang  from 
Heaven  and  earth  (in  the  former  case  Ourg,nos  and  Gaia).  The  Indian 
god  who  is  represented  in  the  Veda  as  the  consort  of  the  Earth  and  the 
progenitor  of  the  gods,  does  not,  however,  as  we  have  seen,  bear  the  same 
name  as  the  corresponding  divinity  among  the  Greeks,  but  is  called  Dyaus, 
or  Byaush pitar.  But  this  latter  name  is  in  its  origin  identical  with  Zeus, 
or  Zeus  pater,  and  Jupiter,  or  Diespiter,  the  appellations  given  to  the 
supreme  god  of  the  Greeks  and  Eomans,^'  whom  Hesiod  represents  as 
the  grandson  of  Ouranos.  On  the  other  hand,  the  name  of  Ouranos 
corresponds  to  that  of  the  Indian  deity  Varuna,  who,  though  he  is  not 
regarded  as  the  progenitor  of  the  gods,  yet,  as  we  shall  see  more  fully 
in  a  future  s,ection,  is  considered  to  coincide  with  Ouranos  in  repre- 
senting the  sky. 

The  word  Prithivi,  on  the  other  hand,  which  in  most  parts  of  the 
Rig-veda  is  used  for  Earth,  has  no  connection  with  any  Greek  word  of 
the  same  meaning.  It  seems,  however,  originally  to  have  been  merely 
an  epithet,  meaning  "  broad ;  "  ^  and  may  have  supplanted  the  older 

69  For  the  proof  of  the  identity  of  Dyaus  and  Zeus,  see  Prof  Miiller's  Lectures  on 
Language,  i.  11 ;  ii.  425-434;  Prof.  M.  Breal,  "Hercule  et  Caous,"  102;  Hartung, 
"Eeligion  und  Mythologie  der  Griechen,"  ii.  6f. ;  iii.  1  ff.  See  also  iii.  pp.  45  f,  and 
and  76  t.  of  the  last-named  work,  where  Hera,  the  consort  of  Zeus,  is  described  as  a 
representative  of  the  earth,  and  where  TTranos  and  Gaea,  Kronos  and  Ehea,  Zeus 
and  Hera,  though  described  in  the  Greek  mythology  as  suocessiTC  pairs  of  deities, 
are  yet  asserted  to  be  essentially  the  same  couples,  with  altered  names. 

^K  Compare  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  52,  53,  two  passages  from  the 
Taittiriya  Sanhita  and  Brahmana,  in  which  the  formation  of  the  earth  is  described, 


34  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GKNERALLY, 

word  Qaw,  which  (with  Qmd  mAJma)  stands  at  the  head  of  the  earliest 
Indian  vooabulary,  the  Mghantu,  as  one  of  the  synonyms  of  Prithivi 
(earth),  and  which  closely  resembles  the  Greek  raio  or  rfl.  In  this  way 
Gaur  mata/r  may  possibly  have  once  corresponded  to  the  r^  m^tjjp  or 
hrri)iA\ri\f  of  the  Greeks. 

Professor  Benfey  (Orient  und  Occident,  i.  48,  note  275,  which  the 
German  reader  may  consult),  and  M.  Ifichel  Breal  (Hercule  et  Cacus, 
p.  101)  are  of  opinion  that  the  functions  which  in  the  older  Indian 
mythology  were  assigned  to  Dyaus,  were  at  a  later  period  traasferred 
to  Indra,  whose  characteristics  will  form  the  subject  of  a  later  section. 

and  in  which  it  is  said  to  have  derived  the  name  of  Prithivi  from  its  being  extended 
{apraihatd).  See  also  E.V.  ii.  15,  2,  ««  dharayat  prithmim  paprathat  cha  |  "  He 
upheld  the  earth  [prithim),  and  spread  it  out"  {^paprathai). 


AS    REPEESENTED    IN    THE    EIG-VEDA.  35 


SECTION    III. 

ADITI.61 

I  proceed  to  Aditi,  who  is,  in  idea  at  least,  if  not  chjonologically, 
one  of  the  older  Indian  deities,  and  who  is  the  only  goddess,  except 
Nishtigrl  ^^  and  TJshas,  whom  I  have  noticed  as  specified  hy  name  in 
the  E.V.  as  the  mother  of  any  of  the  gods. 

(1)  The  epithets  ly  which  she  is  eharacteri%ed. 

Though  not  the  suhject  of  any  separate  hymn,  Aditi  is  an  object  of  fre- 
quent celebration  in  the  Rig-veda,  where  she  is  supplicated  for  blessings 
on  children  and  cattle  (as  ini.  43,  2.  yatha  noAditih  karat  pasve  nrihhyo 
yatha  gave  \  yatha  tokaya  rud/riyani),  for  protection  and  for  forgiveness. 
She  is  represented,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  13),  as  the  mother 
of  YarUna  and  some  of  the  other  deities.  In  the  Nighantu,  or 
ancient  vocabulary  prefixed  to  the  Nirukta,  the  word  Aditi  is  given 
a  synonym  (1)  of  prithivl,  the  earth;  (2)  of  weA,  voice ;  (3)  oi  go, 
cow;*'  and  (4)  in. the  dual,  of  dydvd-prithivyau,  heaven  and  earth 
(Mgh.  i.  1,  11 ;  2,  11 ;  3,  30).  In  the  JSTirukta  (iv.  22)  she  is  defined 
as  the  mighty  mother  of  the  gods  (adlna  deva-mdta).^    In  another  part 

81  Before  commencing  the  revision  of  tliis  section,  I  had  received  the  first  vol.  of 
Prof.  Miiller's  translation  of  the  Eig-veda,  which  contains,  pp.  230-251,  an  ahle 
dissertation  on  Aditi.    See  the  same  author's  Lectures  on  Language,  ii.  500. 

«*  See  note  in  p.  13. 

8'  Compare  E.V.  viii.  90,  16,  gam  atidgam  aditim;  and  Vaj.  Sanh.  xiii.  43,  where 
Agni  is  supplicated  not  to  injure  her  {gam  ma  himair  Aditim  virajam),  and  49 
{jghritam  duhanam  aditim  janaya) . 

6*  In  R.V.  i.  113,  19,  TTshas  (the  dawn)  is  styled  "  the  mother  of  the  gods,  and  the 
manifestation  of  Aditi"  (mata  demnam  Aditer  anlkam)  ;  or,  as  Sayana  explains,the 
rival  of  Aditi,  from  her  appearing  to  call  all  the  gods  into  existence  when  they  are 
worshipped  in  the  morning,  as  Aditi  really  gave  them  birth.  Compare  i.  115, 1. 
Miiller,  Transl.  of  E.V.  i.  231,  renders  Aditer  am/cam,  "  the  face  of  Aditi." 


36  THE  INDIAJST  GODS  GENERALLY, 

(xi.  22)  of  the  same  work  (where  the  different  gods  are  takeu  up  in  the 
order  in  which  they  are  found  in  the  list  in  the  Mghantu,  chap.  5)  she 
is  placed  at  the  head  of  the  female  divinities  of  the  intermediate  region 
{jxtha  ato  madhya-stanah  striyah  \  tasam  Aditih  pratham&gaminl  bha- 
vati).  In  numerous  texts  of  the  K.V.  Aditi  is  styled  the  "  goddess," 
or  the  " divine"  (dm)  (as  in  iv.  55,  3,  7 ;  v.  51,  11;  vi.  60,  1 ;  vii. 
38,  4 ;  vii.  40,  2  ;  viii.  25,  10 ;  viii.  27,  5  ;  viii.  56,  10),  the  "  irre- 
sistible goddess  "  (devi  Aditir  cmarva,  ii.  40,  6 ;  vii.  40,  4  ;  x.  92,  14), 
"the  luminous, '*  the  supporter  of  creatures,  the  celestial"  {jyotish- 
matlm  Aditim  dMrayat-hsMtim^^  svarvatlm,  i.  136,  3),  the  "widely 
expanded "  {wru-vyaehah,^''  v.  46,  6),  the  friend  of  all  men "  {visva- 
jmyam,  vii.  10,  4).  In  v.  69,  3,  the  rishi  exclaims  :  "In  the  morning 
I  continually  invoke  the  divine  Aditi,  at  mid-day,  at  the  setting  '*  of 
the  sun"  (prdtar  devim  Aditim  j'ohavimi  madhyandine  udita  suryasya.) 
In  i.  185,  3,  her  gifts — pure,  unassailable,  celestial,  imperishable,  and 
inspiring  veneration, — are  supplicated  {aneho  ddtram  Aditer  ana/rvam  hwoe 
svarvad  madlmm  namasvat) ;  and  in  another  place  (i.  166,  12)  the  large 
blessings  conferred  by  the  Maruts  are  compared  to  the  beneficent  deeds 
of  Aditi  (dtrgham  vo  ddtram  Aditer  iva  vratam).^^  In  iv.  55,  3,  she  is 
styled  Pastya,  which  Professor  Roth  understands  to  mean  a  household 
goddess  (oomp.  Miiller,  p.  248).  In  the  Vaj.  S.  she  is  thus  celebrated, 
21,  5  (=A.Y.  vii.  6,  2) :  "  Let  us  invoke  to  aid  us  the  great  mother 
of  the  devout,  the  mistress  of  the  ceremonial,  the  strong  in  might,  the 
undecaying,  the  widely-extended,  the  protecting,  the  skilfully  guiding 
Aditi "  {maMm  u  shu  mdtaram  suvratdndm  ritasya  patmm  avase  huvema  | 
tmihshatrdm  yarantlm  uruehim  suiarmdnam  Aditim  sitpranUim. 

5'  See  Roth  in  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vi.  69 ;  and  compare  E.V.  vii.  82,  10 : 
"  We  celebrate  the  beneficent  light  of  Aditi,"  etc.  [madhramjyotih). 

^  The  same  epithet,  dharayat-hshiti,  is,  in  E.V.  x.  132,  2,  applied  to  Mitra  and 
Varuna,  the  eons  of  Aditi. 

6'  Compare  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  2,  7 :  Send  ha  noma  prithivi  dhcmanjaya  vUvmyacMh 
Aditih  suryatvai. 

69  The  word  uditi  here  is  understood  both  by  Eoth  («.».),  by  Kuhn  (in  his  review 
of  this  essay),  and  MUUer  (Transl.  E.V.  i.  231,  232),  to  signify  the  setting  of  the  sun. 

09  Miiller,  p.  199,  translates  this :  "  your  bounty  extends  as  far  as  the  sway  of 
Aditi."     See  his  note  on  the  different  senses  of  vrata,  pp.  225  ff. 


AS  EEPRESENTED  iSf  THE  RIG-VEDA.  37 

(2)  Origin  of  the  conception  of  Aditi  according  to  Professors  Roth  and 

Miiller. 

In  the  Lexicon  of  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  the  word  aditi  is  taken  (in 
addition  to  other  senses  which  are  also  assigned)  to  signify  "  infinity, 
especially  the  boundlessness  of  heaven  in  opposition  to  the  flniteness  of 
the  earth,  and  its  spaces ;  "  and  this  signification  is  considered  to  be 
personified  in  the  goddess  Aditi.  In  his  Illustrations  of  the  Ifirukta, 
pp.  150  f.  Professor  Eoth  had  understood  the  word  to  mean  "  inviola- 
bility," "imperishableness ;"  and  when  personified  as  a  goddess,  to  denote 
eternity,  her  sons  the  Adityas  being  the  sons  of  eternity,  and  the  solar 
and  luminous  gods  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman,  Bhaga,  etc.,  being  pre- 
eminently the  eternal  deities,  as  light  was  regarded  as  the  immaterial 
and  eternal  principle.  In  his  essay  on  the  highest  gods  of  the  Arian 
■  nations  (Journ.  of  the  German  Or.  Society,  vi.  68  f.)  the  same  writer 
says:  "Aditi,  eternity,  or  the  eternal,  is  the  element  which  sustains, 
and  is  sustained  by,  the  Adityas.  This  conception,  owing  to  the 
character  of  what  it  embraces,  had  not  in  the  Yedas  been  carried  out 
into  a  definite  personification,  though  the  beginings  of  such  are  not 

wanting This  eternal  and  inviolable  principle,  in  which  the 

Adityas   live,  and  which  constitutes  their  essence,  is  the  celestial 
light." 

In  a  note  on  E.V.  i.  166,  12  (Trans,  of  the  Rig-veda,  i.  230), 
Professor  Miiller  says  that  "Aditi,  an  ancient  god  or  goddess,  is  in 
reality  the  earliest  name  invented  to  express  the  Infinite ;  not  the 
Infinite  as  the  result  of  a  long  process  of  abstract  reasoning,  but  the 
visible  Infinite,  visible  by  the  naked  eye,  the  endless  expanse,  beyond 
the  earth,  beyond  the  clouds,  beyond  the  sky."  And  in  the  next  page 
he  goes  on  to  remark  that  "if  we  keep  this  original  conception  (the 
conception  which  he  has  explained  in  these  two  pages)  of  Aditi  clearly 
before  us,  the  various  forms  which  Aditi  assumes,  even  in  the  hymns 
of  the  Veda,  will  not  seem  incoherent. 


H 

m  \ 


J 


(3)  Aditi  as  the  mother  of  the  Adityas. 

I  proceed  to  adduce  some  of  the  other  texts  in  which  Aditi  is  de- 
scribed and  characterized,  Mid  begin  with  those  in  which  she  is  repre- 
sented as  the  mother  of  Varusa  and  the  other  kindred  gods : 


38  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

viii.  25,  3.  Td  mata  mivmedasa  asuryaya  pramahasa  \  mahi  jajdna 
Aditir  ritavarl  \  "The  mother,  the  great,  the  holy  Aditi,  brought 
forth  these  twain  (Mitra  and  Varuna),  the  mighty  lords  of  all  wealth, 
that  they  might  exercise  divine  power." 

viii.  47,  9.  Aditir  nah  urmhyatu  Aditir  sarma  yaohhatu  |  matd  Mi- 
trasya  revato  Aryamno  Vwrunasya  elm  (mehasah  \  "  May  Aditi  defend 
us,  may  Aditi  grant  us  protection,  she  who  is  the  mother  of  the  opulent 
Mitra,  of  Aryaman,  and  of  the  sinless  Varuna.  See  also  x.  36,  3,  and 
X.  132,  6;  and  A.V.  v.  1,  9. 

In  E.Y.  ii.  27,  7,  she  is  styled  raj'a-putrd,'"'  "  the  mother  of  kings  ; " 
in  iii,  4,  11,  su-putrd,  "  the  mother  of  excellent  sons ;  "  in  viii.  56,  11, 
as  ugra-putra,  "the  mother  of  powerful  sons  ;  "  and  in  Atharva-veda, 
iii.  8,  2 ;  xi.  1,  11,  "the  divine  Aditi,  mother  of  heroes"  {iura-putra). 
All  these  epithets  have  obviously  reference  to  Varuna  and  the  other 
Adityas  as  her  offspring.  In  A.V.  viii.  9,  21,  she  is  called  Aditi,  who 
had  an  eight-fold  parturition,  who  had  eight  sons  "  {ashta-yonir  Aditir 
ashtaputra).  In  viii.  90,  15,  (referred  to  by  Professor  Miiller  in  his 
Lectures  ii.  501,  and  in  his  Trans,  of  the  E.V.  i.  p.  237),  Aditi  appears 
to  be  described  as  the  daughter  of  the  Vasus,  the  sister  of  the  Adityas, 
and  the  mother  of  Kudras  {mata  rudranam  duhitd  vasundm  svasd  "dit- 
ydndm  amritasya  ndbhih  |  pra  nu  voehaih  chihitusJie  jcmdya  ina  gam  ana- 
gdm  Aditim  vadhishta). 

In  the  Sama-veda  (=A.V.  vi.  4,  1)  the  brothers  as  well  as  the  sons 
of  Aditi  appear  to  be  mentioned,  i.  299 :  "  May  Tvashtri,  Parjanya, 
and  Brahmanaspati  [preserve]  our  divine  utterance.  May  Aditi  with 
(her)  sons  and  brothers  preserve  our  invincible  and  protecting  utter- 
ance "  ''  [Tvashtd  no  daivyam  vachah  Pa/rjanyo  Brahmamspatih  \  putrair 
Vhrdtribhir  Aditir  nu  pdtu  no  dushtaram  tramamm  vachah).  Who  her 
brothers  may  be,  does  not  appear. 

(4)  Is  Aditi  ever  identified  with  the  shy  f 

In  another  passage  of  the  R.V.  x.  63,  2,  Aditi  is  thus  mentioned, 
along  with  the  waters,  and  the  earth,  as  one  of  the  sources  from  which 

™  In  ii.  27,  1,  the  epithet  rajahhyah,  "  kings,"  is  applied  to  all  the  six  Adityas 
there  named. 

"  Benfey,  however,  understands  the  sons  and  brothers  to  be  those  of  the  worshipper. 
For  tramanam  vaohalt  the  A.V.  reads  trayamanam  aahah,  "  delivering  force." 


AS  EEPEESENTED  IN  THE  EIG-VEDA.  39 

the  gods  had  heen  generated:  "All  your  names,  ye  gods,  are  to  be 
revered,  adored,  and  worshipped ;  ye  who  were  bom  from  Aditi,"  from 
the  waters,  ye  who  are  born  from  the  earth,  listen  here  to  my  invo-  ■ 
cation  "  ( Visvd  M  vo  namasydni  vandya  namani  devah  uta  ycyniyani  vah  \ 
ye  stha  jdtah  Aditer  adhhyas  pa/ri  ye  prithwyds  te  me  iha  iruta  havam  |). 
In  this  passage  we  appear  to  find  the  same  triple  classification  of  gods 
as  celestial,  intermediate,  and  terrestrial  (comp.  A.Y.  x.  9,  12),  which 
we  have  already  met  with  in  E.V.  i.  139,  11,"  and  in  the  Nirukta. 
The  gods  mentioned  in  the  verse  before  us  as  sprung  from  Aditi,  might 
thus  correspond  to  the  celestial  gods,  among  whom  the  Adityas  are 
specified  by  Taska  as  the  first  class,  or  to  the  Adityas  alone.'* 

The  hymn  before  us  proceeds  in  the  next  verse  (x.  63,  3) :  "Gladden, 
in  order  to  promote  our  weU-being,  those  Adityas,  who  are  invigorated 
by  hymns,  the  bringers  of  vigour,  the  energetic,  to  whom  their  mother 
the  sky,   Aditi,   (or  the  infinite   sky),"  towering  to  the  empyrean, 

"  Eoth,  in  his  Lexicon,  understands  the  word  Aditi  in  this  passage  to  mean  "  in- 
finity," the  boundlessness  of  heaven  as  opposed  to  the  limitation  of  earth. 

"  The  same  threefold  origin  of  the  gods,  together  with  the  use  of  the  word 
"waters,"  to  denote  the  intermediate  region,  is  found  also  in  x.  49,  2,  where  it  is 
said :  mam  dhur  Indram  noma  devatali  divas  cha  gmai  cha  apam  eha  jantavah  \ 
"The  gods,  both  those  who  are  the  offspring  of  the  sky,  of  the  earth,  and  of  the 
[aerial]  waters,  have  assigned  to  me  the  name  of  Indra;  "  and  in  i.  65,  9,  the  poet 
says:  Fa/rjanya-Vata  vrishabha  puruMna  Indra-Vayu  Varuno  Mitro  Aryama  ] 
demn  Adityan  Aditim_  hmamahe  ye  part/iivaso  divyaso  apsu  ye  |  "  Parjanya,  Vata, 
vigorous  and  shedders  of  moisture,  Indra,  Vayu,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman:  We 
invoke  the  divine  Adityas,  Aditi,  those  (gods)  who  are  terrestrial,  celestial,  who 
(exist)  in  the  aerial  waters."  The  word  "waters"  seems  to  be  used  in  the  sense 
of  air,  in  ii.  38,  11,  and  x.  45,  1.  Compare  also  vii.  35,  11,  where  the  gods  are 
classed  as  divya,  parthwa,  and  apya  (celestial,  earthly,  and  aerial,  apsu  antarihshe 
bhmah :  Sayana),  v.  14  of  the  same  hymn  where  they  are  divided  into  divya, 
parthiva,  (celestial,  earthly),  aoAgojata;  and  vi.  50, 11,  where  they  are  distinguished 
as  divya,  parthiva,  gojata,  and  apya  (celestial,  earthly,  gojatd,  and  aerial.  Sayana 
on  E.V.  vii.  35, 14,  explains  gojata  as  Friiner  jatah,  "born  of  Pris'ni."  On  vi.  50,  11, 
he  oharacteriaes  Pri^ni  as  madhyamika  vak,  "the  Vach  of  the  middle  region." 
In  the  former  of  these  two  passages,  if  the  threefold  division  of  gods  is  maintained 
gojata  ought  to  be  =  apya  :  but  in  the  latter  passage  we  have  a  fourfold  division, 
and  as  the  apya  gods  are  one  of  the  four  classes,  gojata  ought  to  designate  a  dif- 
ferent class.  Eoth  so  explains  the  last  word  as  meaning  the  gods  of  the  starry  heaven. 

'*  Nirukta  xii.  35 :  Athato  dyusthamli  devagatmh  \  tesham  Adityah  prathama- 
gamino  bhavanti  \ 

'5  The  word  for  "sky"  here  is  Dyaus,  which,  if  my  rendering  is  correct,  must  in 
this  passage  be  regarded  as  feminine,  though,  as  we  have  seen,  it  is  generally  mas- 
culine, and  designated  as  father.    In  v.  69,  8,  the  words  dyaus  and  aditi  are  similarly 


40  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

supplies  the  sweet  ambrosial  fluid  "  ( Yelhyo  maia  madhumat  pimale 
pay  ah  plyushdih  dyaur  aditir  adri-bark'Sh  \  uktha-iushman  vrishabharhn 
svapnasas  tan  Adiiydn  anu  mada  smstaye).  This  verse,  in  -which  it  inay 
seem  that  Aditi  is  either  identified  with,  or  regarded  as  an  epithet  of, 
the  sky,  appears  rather  to  confirm  the  view  I  have  taken  of  the  one 
which  precedes.  The  tenor  of  E.V.  x.  65,  9,  quoted  in  a  preceding 
foot-note  ("),  seems,  however,  opposed  to  this  identification  of  Aditi 
with  the  sky,  as  she  and  her  sons  the  Adiiyas  are  there  mentioned 
separately  from  the  other  gods  who  are  the  iiihabitants  of  the  three 
different  spheres ;  though  possibly  the  last  named  classification  may  be 
meant  to  sum  up  all  the  gods  before  enumerated,  and  so  to  coinpre- 
hend  the  Adityas  also. 

(6)  Aditi  seems  to  he  distinguished  from  the  Earth. 

But  even  if  we  suppose  that  in  the  preceding  passages  it  is  intended 
to  identify  Aditi  with  the  sky,  this  identification  is  very  far  from  being 
consistently  maintained  in  the  hymns.  And  it  is  equally  difficult  to 
take  the  word  as  a  constant  synonym  of  the  Earth.  For  although,  as 
we  have  seen,  Aditi  is  given  in  the  Nighantu  as  one  of  the  names  of 
the  Earth,  and  in  the  dual  as  equivalent  to  Heaven  and  JEarth,  and 
though  in  the  obscure  verse  E.V.  i.  72^  9,  and  in  Atharva-veda,  xiii. 
1 ,  38,  she  may  appear  to  be  identified  with  the  Earth,'^  we  find  her  in 
many  passages  of  the  Eig-veda  mentioned  separately,  and  as  if  she 
were  distinct  from  both  the  one  and  the  other.  Thus,  in  iii.  54,  19, 
20,  it  is  said  :  "  S'rinotu  nah  prithivl  dyaur  utdpah  suryo  nahshatfrair 
uru  antarihham  |  20  .  .  .  Adityair  no  Aditih  srinotu  \  "May  the 
Earth  and  the  Heaven  hear  us,  the  "Water,  the  Sun  with  the  stars, 
the  wide  Atmosphere  ....  20  May  Aditi  with  the  Adityas  hear  us ;" 

united :  mimatu  dyaur  aditih,  etc.  Professor  Miille*  tales  aditi  in  i.  63,  3,  as  well 
as  in  V.  59,  8,  for  an  adjective,  and  renders  tlie  first  half  of  the  former  verse  thus  : 
*'  The  gods  to  whom  their  mother  yields  the  sweet  milk,  and  the  uubonnded  sky,  as 
firm  as  a  rock,  their  food"  (pp.  243  and  249).  But  we  should  thus  have  to  take 
Aditi  in  different  senses  in  two  adjoining  verses.  In  v.  2  of  this  hymn  Prof.  Miiller 
himself  takes  Aditi  as  signifying  the  goddess  (p.  240).  For  adribarhas  see  Roth,  s.v., 
and  under  harhas. 

'8  R.V.  i.  72,  9.  Mahna  mahadbhih  Frithin  vi  tasthe  mata  putrair  Aditir  dhayaae 
veh  I  "  The  earth,  the  mother,  Aditi  stood  in  power  with  her  mighty  sons  for  the 
support  of  the  bird."  The  vrori  pritJiivi  may,  however,  as  Professor  Miiller  supposes, 
p.  243,  be  here  an  epithet.    A.V.  xiii.  1.  38  :   Taa'Sh  pritMvya  Aditya  upasth«,  etc. 


AS  EEPEESENTED  IN  THE  HIG-VEDA.  41 

in  V.  46,  3  :  Ih^ragnl  Mitra/om-Um  Addtifh  svah  prithipitn,  dyam  Marutah 
parvatan  apah  \  huve  |  "  I  invoke  liidra,  Agni,  Mitra,  Varuna,  Aditi, 
Heaven,  Earth,  Sky,  etc. ;  in  vi.  51,  5  :  Byamh  piUh  Prithwl  matar 
ddhrug  Ague  Ihratmr  Vasmo  mfilata  nah  \  visve  Adityah  Adite  sajosha 
cismdbhyam  im-ma  hahulam  viyanta  |  "Father  Heaven,  beniflcent 
mother  Earth,  brother  Agni,  Vasus,  he  gracious  to  us ;  all  ye  Adityas, 
Aditi,  united,  grant  us  mighty  protection  ;"  in  ix.  97,  68  :  Tan  no  Mitro 
Varutlo  rKamahantam,  Aditih  Sindhuh  Prithivi  uta  Bytiuh  \  "May 
Mitra,  Varuna,  Aditi,  Oce^n,  Earth,  and  Heaven  gladden  us ;"  in  x.  36, 
2 :  Byauk  cha  nah  Prithivi  cha  prachetasd  rit&vari  raksMtam  a'mhaso 
rishah  ]  .  .  .  .  3.  Viivasman  no  Aditih  patu  arhhaso  mdtd  mitrasya 
Varunasya  reoatah  Jl  2.  "  Heaven  and  Earth,  the  wise  and  holy, 
protect  us,"  etc.;  ....  3:  " May  Aditi,  the  mother  of  Mitra  and  the 
opulent  Varuna,  preserve  us  from  every  calamity."  See  also  x.  92,  11. 
Perhaps  the  most  distinct  text  of  all,  however,  is  x.  63,  10 :  Sutra- 
mdnam  PritMvifh  I)ydm  miehasam  suiarmdnam  Aditim  supramtim,  \ 
daivim  ndvdm  svaritrdm  andgasam  asravantim  d  ruhema  svastaye  \ 
10 :  "  (We  invoke)  the  excellent  protectress  the  Earth,  the  faultless 
Heaven,  the  sheltering  and  guiding  Aditi:  let  us  ascend  for  our  well- 
being  the  divine  bark,  well  rowed,  free  from  imperfection,  which  never 
leaks.""  Vaj.  S.  xviii.  22:  "May  Earth,  and  Aditi,  and  Diti,  and 
Heaven,  etc.,  etc.,  satisfy  me  through  my  sacrifice,"  etc.  (.  .  .  .  prithivi 
cha  me  Aditih  cha  me  DitiS  cha  me  Dyaus  cha  me  .  . .  yajnena  halpantdm). 

In  A.V.  vi.  120,  2  :  the  Earth  seems  to  be  distinguished  from  Aditi: 
Bhumir  mdtd  Adiiir  no  janitram  Ihrdtd  'ntarihsham  ityadi  \  "  The 
Earth  our  Mother,  Aditi  the  place  of  our  production,  the  air  our 
brother,  etc. 

In  the  S'atapatha  Brahqiana,  indeed,  it  is  said  (ii.  2,  1,  19) :  "Aditi 
is  this  earth;  she  is  this  supporter,"  {iyam  vai  Prithivi  Aditih  sd  iyam 
pratishtha),  etc. ;  and  in  another  passage  (v.  3,  1,  4) :  "  Aditi  is  this 
earth;  she  is  the  wife  of  the  gods,"  {iyam  vai  Prithivi  Aditih  sd  iyam 
devdndm  patnl).  (See  also  vui.  2,  1,  10;  xi.  1,  3,  3).  But  these 
identifications  of  the  Brahmanas  are  very  arbitrary  and  frequently 
fanciful. 

I  have  already  mentioned  that  Aditi  is  placed  by  Taska  at  the  head 

"  This  Terse  occurs  also  in  the  Vaj.  S.  xxi.  6 ;  and  Ath.  V.  vii.  6,  3.  See  Miiller, 
p.  238. 


42  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

of  the  goddesses  of  the  intermediate  region.  If,  however,  the  same 
ancient  writer  has  done  rightly  in  placing  the  Adityas  among  the 
deities  of  the  celestial  sphere  (Nir.  xii.  35),  Aditi  their  mother  ought 
surely  to  have  found  her  place  in  the  same  class,  as  it  is  scarcely  con- 
ceivable that  the  composers  of  the  hymns  should  have  thought  of  thus 
separating  the  parent  from  her  offspring.  But  Taska  is  here  merely 
following  the  order  of  the  list  of  words  (for  it  can  hardly  be  called  a 
classification)  which  he  found  in  the  fifth  chapter  of  the  ITighantu ; 
and  in  following  this  list  (to  which  he  no  doubt  attached  a  certain 
authority)  he  has  had  to  specify  Varuna,  who  is  twice  named  in  it,  not 
only  among  the  celestial  gods  (xii.  21),  among  whom  as  an  Aditya  he 
was  properly  ranked,  but  also  among  the  gods  of  the  intermediate 
region™  (x.  3). 

(6)  Aditi  and  Diti. 

In  the  following  verse  Aditi  is  named  along  with  another  goddess 
or  personification,  Diti,  who,  from  the  formation  of  her  name,  appears 
to  be  intended  as  an  antithesis,  or  as  a  complement,  to  Aditi  (v.  62,  8. 
Hiranyarupam  ushaso  vyushtav  ayah-stJiunam  udita  suryasya  \  arohatJio 
Varuna  Mitra  garttam  ata^  ohalcshathe  Aditim  Ditim  oha  |  "Te,  Mitra 
and  Varuna,  ascend  your  car,  of  golden  form  at  the  break  of  dawn, 
(your  car)  with  iron  supports  at  the  setting'-'  of  the  sun,  and  thence  ye 
behold  Aditi  and  Diti."  *"  Sayana  here  understands  Aditi  of  the  earth 
as  an  invisible  whole,  and  Diti  as  representing  the  separate  creatures 
on  its   surface   {Aditim  alchandaniyam  Ihumim  Ditim  khanditam  jpra- 

'8  Eoth,  in  his  remarks  on  Nir.  i.  4,  offers  the  following  explanation  of  this  cir- 
cumstance :  "  Varuna  who,  of  all  the  gods,  ought  to  have  been  assigned  to  the 
highest  sphere,  appears  here  in  the  middle  rank,  because  among  his  creative  and 
regulative  functions,  the  direction  of  the  waters  in  the  "heavens  is  one. 

■"  I  here  follow  Roth,  who,  in  the  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vi.  71,  and  in  his 
Lexicon,  renders  the  word  udita  suryasya  here  by  "  setting  of  the  sun."  Sayana  goes 
the  length  of  explaining  this  phrase  by  aparahna  "afternoon,"  in  his  note  on  v.  76, 
3,  though  not  in  the  passage  before  us. 

80  These  two  words,  aditi  and  diti,  occur  also  in  a  passage  of  the  Vajasaneyi  San- 
hita  (x.  16),  which  is  partly  the  same  as  the  present.  The  concluding  clause  {tatas 
ehahshatam  aditim  ditim  eha)  is  thus  explained  by  the  commentator  there  as  signify- 
ing in  the  adhidaiva  sense :  "  Thence  behold  [o  Varuna  and  Mitra]  the  man  who  is 
not  poor  (aditi=adma),  i.e.  who  observes  the  prescribed  ordinances  {mhitanmhtha- 
tarmn),  and  him  who  is  poor  {clifi==dma),  who  follows  the  practices  of  the  atheists 
(flostiha-vrittam)." 


AS .  EEPEESENTED    IN   THE   EIG-VEDA.  43 

jadiMm).  In  his  essay  on  "  The  Highest  Gods  of  the  Arian  Eaces  " 
(Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vi.  71),  Professor  Eoth  translates  these 
two  words  by  "the  eternal,"  and  "the  perishable."  In  his  Lexi- 
con, however,  the  same  author  {s.v.)  describes  Diti  "  as  a  goddess 
associated  with  Aditi,  without  any  distinct  conception,  and  merely,  as 
it  appears,  as  a  contrast  to  her."  Aditi  may,  however,  here  represent 
the  sky,  and  Diti  the  earth ;  or,  if  we  are  right  in  understanding  the 
verse  before  us  to  describe  two  distinct  appearances  of  Mitra  and 
Varuna,  one  at  the  rising  and  the  other  at  the  setting  of  the  sun, 
Aditi  might  possibly  stand  for  the  whole  of  nature  as  seen  by  day,  and 
Diti  for  the  creation  as  seen  by  night.  At  all  events  the  two  together 
appear  to  be  put  by  the  poet  for  the  entire  aggregate  of  visible  nature.^' 
Diti  occurs  again  as  a  goddess,  but  without  Aditi,  in  another  place  (vii. 
15,  12,  Toam  Agn»  vlravad  yah  devai  cha  SwoUd  Bhagah  \  DitiS  cha 
dati  vary  am  \  "  Tou,  Agni,  and  the  divine  Savitri  and  Bhaga,  (bestow) 
renown  with  descendants ;  and  Diti  confers  what  is  desirable."  Sayana 
here  explains  Diti  as  meaning  a  particular  goddess  {Bitir  api  devi). 
Eoth  (s.v.)  considers  her  to  be  a  personification  of  liberality  or  opulence. 
Professor  MiiUer,  Trans,  i.  244,  considers  that  the  original  reading  in  this 
passage  was  Aditi,  and  that  Diti  has  been  substituted  by  later  reciters. 
Diti  is  also  named  along  with  Aditi  as  a  goddess,  A.Y.  xv.  6,  7,  and 
XV.  18,  4 ;  Vaj.  S.  xviii.  22 ;  and  in  A.V.  vii.  7.  1,  her  sons  are  men- 
tioned. These  sons,  the  Daityas,  as  is  well  known,  were  regarded  in 
later  Indian  mythology  as  the  enemies  of  the  gods. 

(7)  Aditi  may  he  a  personification  of  Vniversal  Nature. 

Perhaps  Aditi  may  best  be  regarded  as  a  personification  of  uni- 
versal, all-embracing  Nature,  or  Being,  with  which  she  is  in  fact 
identified  in  the  following  remarkable  verse.  She  is  the  source  and 
substance  of  all  things  celestial  and  intermediate,  divine  and  human, 
present  and  future  (i.89,  10):  "Aditi  is  the  sky;  Aditi  is  the  air 
(or  intermediate  firmament)  ;  Aditi  is  the  mother,  and  father,  and  son ; 
Aditi  is  all  the  gods,  and  the  five  tribes ;  *^  Aditi  is  whatever  has  been 

"  The  words  aditi  and  diti  occur  together  in  another  passage,  iv.  2,  11  (ditim  cha 
rasva  aditim  tiruahya),  where  Sayana  takes  diti  for  "  the  liberal  man,"  and  aditi  for 
the  "illiberal,"  and  translates  "grant  us  a  liberal  giyer,  and  preserve  us  from  the 
illiberal,"  while  Eoth  renders  them  by  "wealth"  and  "penury"  respectively. 

^  In  another  place,  vi.  51,  11,  Aditi  is  invoked,  along  with  India,  the  earth,  the 


44  THE   INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

born;  Aditl  is  whatever  shall  be  born"^'  [Addti/r  dyaw  AcUtir  antarik- 
sham  Aditir  matd  sa  pita  sa  putrah  \  visve  devah  Aditih  pamchyanah 
Aditir  jatam  Aditir  janitvam  |). 

Sayana  states  that  here  Aditi  is  either  the  earth,  or  the  mother  of 
the  gods,  and  that  she  is  lauded  under  the  character  of  universal 
nature  '*  {Aditir  adina  alchandaniya  vd  prithivl  devamdtd  vd  \  .  .  .  evafh 
iahala-jogad-dtmand  Aditih  stuyate).  Taska  says  (Mr.  iv.  22  f.),  that 
Aditi  means  "  not  poor,  the  mother  of  the  gods  "  {Aditir  adind  deva- 
mdtd),  and  that  the  variety  of  her  manifestations  is  set  forth  in  this 
verse,  or  that  the  objects  which  are  there  characterized  as  aditi  are 
adina,  the  reverse  of  dina,  "poor"  {ity  Aditer  vibkutim  dckashte  | 
endny  adindni  vd).  This  text  occurs  at  the  end  of  a  hymn  addressed 
to  all  the  gods,  and  does  not  appear  to  have  any  connexion  with  the 
verses  which  precede,  from  which  it  derives  no  elucidation."  ^ 

Compare  with  it  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  1,  where  it  is  similarly  said 
"  that  the  self-existent  Brahma,  who  is  the  highest  austere-fervour, 
is  son,  father,  and  mother  {Svayambhu  Brahma  paramam  tapo  yat  \ 
sa  eva  putrah  sa  pitd  sa  mdtd). 

With  this  may  be  compared  JEschylus,  Fragment  443  : 

ZckJs  ^(TTiv  alB^Pf  Z€^sS€  77),  Zeus  5*  ovpav6s' 
Zevs  Toi  T&  irdvTa  x^  Ti  fuv  5*  vtreprepov. 

ground  (kshama),  Pushan,  Bhaga,  and  the  five  tribes  {pmehafanah),  to  bestow  bless- 
ings. Are  the  "five  tribes"  to  be  understood  here,  with  some  old  commentators 
(see  Nir.  iii.  8)  of  the  Gandharvas,  Pitris,  Devas,  Asuras,  and  Rakshasas  ;  or  with 
the  Aitareya  Brahmana  quoted  by  Sayana  on  i.  89,  10,  of  gods,  men,  Gandharvas, 
Apsarases,  serpents,  and  Pitris  (the  Gandharvas  and  Apsarases  being  taken  as  one 
class)  ?  Perhaps  we  should  rather  understand  the  term,  as  in  x.  53,  i,  5  {pcmcha- 
jaMah  mama  hotrcm  jmhadhoam,  "  ye  five  tribes,  welcome  my  off'ering  "),  as  denoting 
the  whole  pantheon,  or  a  particular  portion  of  it.  In  R.V.  x.  55,  3,  pancha  devali, 
the  five  gods,  or  classes  of  gods,  are  mentioned,  and  in  x.  60,  4,  "  the  five  tribes  in 
the  sky"  {divtva  pancha  krishtayah).     See  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  177. 

83  In  a  note  on  this  verse  (Orient  uud  Occident,  ii.  p.  253)  Professor  Benfey  remarks 
"  The  conception  of  this  goddess  is  still  dark." 

6*  M.  Ad.  Regnier,  E'tude  sur  I'idiome  des  Vedas,  p.  28,  remarks :  Aditi  is  the 
name  of  a  divinity,  a  personification  of  the  All,  the  mother  of  the  gods." 

85  There  is  a  hymn  (x.  100)— addressed  to  difi'erent  gods,  and  where  they  are 
invoked  in  succession — in  which  the  words  a  sarvatatim  aditim  vrinJmahe  form  the 
conclusion  of  all  the  verses  except  the  last.  The  precise  meaning  of  these  words  was 
not  very  clear  to  me,  especially  as  they  have  no  necessary  connection  with  the  pre- 
ceding portions  of  the  difi'erent  stanzas  in  which  they  occur.  But  Professor  Aufrecht 
suggests  that  the  verb  vrinmahe  governs  a  double  accusative,  and  that  the  words 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN   THE    EIG-VEDA.  45 

"  Zeus  is  the  ^ther,  Zeus  is  the  Earth,  Zeus  is  the  Heaven.  Zeus  is 
all  things,  and  whatever  is  above  them."  See  Muller,  Lectures  on 
Language,  ii.  441. 

The  signification,  "  earth  "  or  "  nature,"  may  be  that  in  which  the 
word  Aditi  is  employed  in  R.V.  i.  24,  1 :  Kasya  nunaih  hatamasya 
amritanam  manamahe  chdru  devasya  nama  \  ho  no  mahyai  Aditaye  pwna/r 
ddt  pita/ram  eha  driieyam  matara&  cha  |  2.  Agner  vayam  prathamasi/a 
amritanam  manamahe  eharu  devasya  nama  \  sa  no  mahyai  Aditaye  puna/r 
dat  pita/ra/fh  cha  driseyam  mataram  cha  \  "  of  which  god,  now,  of  which 
aU  the  immortals,  shall  we  invoke  the  amiable  name  ?  who  shall  give 
us  back  to  the  great  Aditi,  that  I  may  behold  my  father  and  my 
mother  ?  2.  Let  us  invoke  the  amiable  name  of  the  divine  Agni,  the 
first  of  the  immortals  ;  he  shall  give  us  back  to  the  great  Aditi,  that  I 
may  behold  my  father  and  my  mother."  These  words  are  declared  in 
the  Aitareya  Brahmana  to  have  been  uttered  by  S'unassepa  when  he 
was  about  to  be  immolated  (see  Professor  "WUson's  Essay  in  the  Journal 
of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society,  xiii.  100 ;  Professor  Eoth's  paper  in 
Weber's  Indische  Studien,  i.  46 ;  Miiller's  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature, 
pp.  408  ff. ;  Haug's  Aitareya  Brahmana,  ii.  460  ff.,  and  the  Eirst  Vol. 
of  this  work,  pp.  355  ff.  In  regard  to  the  passage  immediately  before 
us,  MiiUer's  Lectures  on  Language,  ii.  500,  and  his  Translation  of  theRig- 
veda,  i.  243,  may  also  be  consulted).  "Whether  this  account  be  correct  or 
not,  the  words  may  be  understood  as  spoken  by  some  one  in  danger  of 
death  from  sickness  or  otherwise,  who  prayed  to  be  permitted  again  to 
behold  the  face  of  nature.  This  interpretation  is  confirmed  by  the 
epithet  maM,  "  great,"  applied  in  this  verse  to  Aditi,  which  would  not 
be  so  suitable  if,  with  Eoth  (s.v.),  we  should  take  the  word  here  in  the 
sense  of  "freedom"  or  "security."  If  we  should  understand  the  father 
and  mother  whom  the  suppliant  is  anxious  to  behold,  as  meaning  heaven 


mean  "We  ast  Aditi  for  sanatati,"  (whatever  that  may  mean).  In  an  ingenious 
excursus  on  R.V.  i.  94,  15  (Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  619  ff.),  Professor  Benfey  regards 
the  word  as  coming  originally  from  the  same  root  as  the  Latin  saliU,  of  which  he 
supposes  the  primitive  form  to  have  heen  salvotSt,  and  to  have  the  same  signification. 
This  sense  certainly  suits  the  context  of  the  four  passages  on  which  principally  he 
founds  it,  viz.,  i.  106,  2;  iii.  54,  11 ;  ix.  96,  4;  x.  36,  14.  In  a  note  to  his  trans- 
lation of  this  paper  (Orient  und  Occident,  iii.  470)  he  explains  the  words  under 
consideration,  "  we  supplicate  Aditi  for  welfare."  In  his  transl.  of  E.V.  i.  247, 
Miiller  similarly  renders  them  :  We  implore  Aditi  for  health  and  wealth." 


46  THE    INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

and  earth  (see  above),  it  would  become  still  more  probable  that  Aditi  is 
to  be  understood  as  meaning  "  nature."  Sayana  (in  loco)  understands 
the  word  of  the  Earth  {prithivyai), 

(8)  Aditi  as  a  for  giver  of  sin. 

Benfey  in  his  translation  of  the  hymn  just  referred  to  i.  24  (Orient 
und  Occident,  i.  33),  treats  Aditi  as  a  proper  name,  and  explains  it  as 
denoting  "  sinlessness."  Whatever  may  be  thought  of  this  interpreta- 
tion, the  goddess  Aditi  is  undoubtedly  in  many  other  texts  connected 
with  the  idea  of  deliverance  from  sin.  Thus  at  the  end  of  this  same 
hymn  (i.  24,  15),  it  is  said :  ITd  uttamaih  Varum  paiam  asmad  ava 
adhamam  vi  madhyamam  iraihaya  \  atha  vayam  Aditya  vrate  ^  tava 
anagasah  Aditaye  syama  \  "Varuna,  loose  from  us  the  uppermost, 
the  middle,  and  the  lowest  bond.  Then  may  we,  o  Aditya,  by  thy 
ordination,  be  without  sin  against  Aditi."  °' 

The  same  reference  is  also  found  in  the  following  texts  : 

i.  162,  22.  "May  Aditi  make  us  sinless"  {andgastvafh  no  Aditih 
hrinotu). 

ii.  27,  14.  "Aditi,  Mitra,  and  Varuna,  be  gracious  if  we  have  com- 
mitted any  sin  against  you"  (Adite  Mitra  Varunauta  mrila  yad  vo  vayam 
ehalcrima  hack  chid  dgaK). 

iv.  12,  4.  "Whatever  offence  we  have,  through  our  folly,  committed 
against  thee,  after  the  manner  of  *men,  o  most  youthful  god,  make  us 
free  from  sin  against  Aditi ;  loosen  our  sins  altogether  away,  o  Agni  " 

88  On  the  different  senses  of  the  word  vrata  see  Miiller,  Trans,  of  E.V.  i.  225  ff. 
Here  he  renders  "  under  thy  auspices,"  p.  228. 

8'  The  abstract  noun  adititva  occurs  along  with  anagasiva,  "  sinlessness,"  in  the 
following  line  (vii.  51,  1)  :  anagastve  adititve  turasa  imam  yajnam  dadhatu  s'rosha- 
munah,  "  May  the  mighty  gods,  listening  to  us,  preserve  this  ceremony  in  sinlessness, 
and  prosperity."  Though  adititva  is  joined  with  anagaatva,  it  does  not  follow  that 
it  must  have  the  same  sense. — In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  i.  6,  5,  6  (=  Brihad 
Aranyaka  Upanishad,  p.  53  ff.,)  the  name  of  Aditi  is  explained  from  the  root  ad,  to 
eat :  "  Whatever  he  created,  he  began  to  eat :  for  Aditi  derives  her  (or  his)  name 
from  this,  that  she  (or  he)  eats  every  thing  "  [yad  yad  eva  asrijata  tad  attum  adhri- 
yata  \  sarvam  vai  atli  iti  tad  Aditer  adititvam).  Aditi  is  an  epithet  of  Agni  in  R.V. 
iv.  1,  20 ;  vii.  9,  3 ;  and  of  Aryaman  in  ix.  81,  5.  Yaska  tells  us  that  Agni  also  is 
called  Aditi  [Agnir  apy  aditir  mhyate,  Nir.  xi.  23),  and  quotes  in  proof  of  this  the 
16th  verse  of  a  hymn  to  Agni,  R.V.  i.  94.  In  vii.  52,  1,  the  worshippers  ask  that 
they  may  be  aditayali,  which  Sayana  renders  by  ahhandamyuh,  "  invincible." 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  47 

( Yach  ehid  M  te  pwrushatra  ywoisMha  aoJdUibhih  ohakrima  hack  chid 
agah  \  kridhi  su  asman  Aditer  anagan  vi  enamsi  Uiratho  vishvag  Agne). 

V.  82,  6.  "May  we  be  free  from  sin  against  Aditi  through  the  help 
of  the  divine  Savitri "  {andgasah  Aditaye  devmya  Smituh  save). 

vii.  87,  7.  "May  we,  fulfilling  the  ordinances  of  Aditi,  be  without 
sin  towards  Varuna,  who  is  gracious  even  to  him  who  has  committed 
sin "  {yo  mrilayati  chahrushe  chid  ago  vayltm  syama  Ymrvm  anagah  \ 
arm  vratdni  Aditer  ridhantah). 

vii.  93,  7.  "  Whatever  sin  \^e  have  committed,  be  thou  (Agni)  com- 
passionate :  may  Aryaman  and  Aditi  sever  it  from  us  "  (j/at  sim  agas 
chakrima  tat  su  mrila  tad  Aryama  Aditih  iiirathcmtu). 

X.  12,  8.  "  May  Mitra  here,  may  Aditi,  may  the  divine  Savitri  de- 
clare us  sinless  to  Varuna"  (Mitro  no  atra  Aditir  anagan  Savitd  devo 
Varmdya  vochat). 

A  consideration  of  these  passages,  where  Aditi  is  supplicated  for  for- 
giveness of  sin,  might  lead  us  to  suppose  that  she  was  regarded  as  the 
great  power  which  wields  the  forces  of  the  universe,  and  controls  the 
destinies  of  men  by  moral  laws;  and  the  idea  derives  some  support 
from  her  connection  with  Varuna,  whose  bonds  are  so  often  referred  to 
as  afflicting  sinners.*'  But  this  supposition  is  weakened  by  the  fact  that 
many  others  of  the  gods  are  in  the  same  way  petitioned  for  pardon,  as 
Savitri  (iv.  .')4,  3)  and  other  deities,  as  the  Sun,  Dawn,  Heaven  and 
Earth  (x.  35,  2,  3),  Agni  (iii.  54,  19). 

(9)  Aditi' s  position  sometimes  subordinate. 

Though,  as  we  have  seen,  Aditi  is  regarded  as  the  mother  of  some  of 
the  principal  Vedic  deities,  she  is  yet,  in  other  texts,  represented  as 
playing  a  subordinate  part. 

Thus,  in  vii.  38,  4,  she  is  mentioned  as  celebrating  the  praises  of 
Savitri,  along  with  her  sons  Varuna,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman,  and  wel- 
coming his  aid  {ahhi  yafh  devi  Aditir  grindti  savam  devasya  Savitttr 
jushand  \  ahhi  sarhrdjo  Varum  grimnti  ahhi  Mitrdso  Aryama  sajoshdh) ; 
and  in  viii.  12,  14,  she  is  declared  to  have  produced  a  hymn  to  Indra 
uta  svwrdje  Aditih  stomam  Indrdya  jljanat  \  pwufrasastam  utaye  rita- 
sya  yat). 

»s  See  on  this  subject  Miiller's  transl.  of  the  R.V.  i.  244  ff. 


48  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

(10)  Creation  as  described  in  Rig-veda  x.  72;  lirth  of  Aditi,  Daksha, 
tJte  gods,  and  the  Adityas, 

In  a  hymn  of  the  tenth  book  (the  72nd),  supposed  from  its  contents 
to  be  of  a  comparatively  late  date,  the  process  of  creation  is  described 
at  greater  length  than  in  any  earlier  passage,  and  the  share  which 
Aditi  took  in  it  is  not  very  intelligibly  set  forth :  ^' 

X.  72,  1.  Devandm  nu  vayam  jdnd  pra  voohama  vipanyaya  \  uhtlieshu 
sasyamaneshu  yah  pakydd  uftare  yuge  ]  2.  Brahmanaspatir  eta  sam  Ica/r- 
mdrah  ivadhamat  \  devanam  purvye  yuge  asatah  sad  qfayata  |  3.  Deva- 
ndm yuge  pratkame  asatah  sad  ajdyata  \  tad  asdh  anv  ajdyanta  tad  JJttd- 
napadas  pari  |  4.  Bhurjcyne  Uttdnapado  Vhvmah  dsdh  ajdyanta  \  Aditer 
Dahho  ajdyata  Balcshad  u  Aditih  pari  \  5.  Aditir  hi  ajanishta  Dahha 
yd  duhitd  tava  \  tarn  devdh  anv  afdyanta  hhadrdh  amritabandhavah  \  6. 
Yad  devdh  adah  salile  susamrdbdhdh  atishthata  \  attra  vo  nrityatdm  iva 
tlvro  r&mr  apdyata  \  7.  Yad  devdh  yatayo  yathd  hhuvandni  apinvata  \ 
attra  samudre  a  gulham  d  suryam  ajalharttana  \  8.  Ashtau  putrdso 
Aditer  ye  j'dtds  tanvas  pari  |  devdn  wpa  pra  ait  saptalhih  para  mdrt- 
tdndam  dsyat  \  9.  Saptabhih  putrair  Aditih  vpa  prait  purvyam  yugam  \ 
prcydyai  mrityave  tvat  punar  mdrttdndam  dhharat  \ 

"  1.  Let  us,  in  chaunted  hymns,  with  praise,  declare  the  births  of 
the  gods, — any  of  us  who  in  (this)  latter  age  may  behold  them.  2. 
Brahmanaspati  blew  forth  these  births  like  a  blacksmith.'"  In  the 
earliest  age  of  the  gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the  non-existent. 

3.  In  the  first  age  of  the  gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the  non- 
existent:  thereafter  the  regions  sprang,  thereafter,  from  Uttanapad. 

4.  The  earth  sprang  from  Uttanapad,  from  the  earth  sprang  the 
regions :  Daksha  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi  from  Daksha.  5.  For 
Aditi  was  produced,  she  who  is  thy  daughter,  o  Daksha.     After  her 

8'  I  have  already  given  this  translation  in  vol.  iv.  of  this  work,  pp.  10,  11,  but 
repeat  it  here,  with  some  variations,  for  the  sake  of  completeness.  Prof.  Miiller  in 
his  transl.  of  the  E.V.  pp.  234  f.  gives  a  version  of  the  first  four  verses.  In  the  first 
verse,  second  line,  he  proposes  to  read  t/at  for  yah  and  to  translate  "  that  a  man  may 
see  them,"  etc.  In  the  third  verse  he  takes  TJttanapadas,  where  it  first  occurs,  for  a 
nominative,  and  in  the  fourth  verse  for  a  genitive.  "Whichever  way  we  take  the 
words,  there  is  a  douhle  production  of  the  regions  ;  first,  either  (a)  from  ITttanapad, 
or  (b)  after  the  non-existent,  but  before  ITttanapad,  to  which  they  gave  birth,  and, 
second,  from  the  earth,  which  itself  sprang  from  (Jttanapad. 

»»  Compare  E.V.  iv.  2,  17;  and  x.  81,  3. 


AS    EEPRESENTED    IN   THE    EIG-VEDA.  49 

the  gods  were  born,  happy,  partakers  of  immortality.  6.  When,  gods, 
ye  moved,  agitated,  upon  those  waters,  then  a  violent  dust"  issued 
from  you,  as  from  dancers.  7.  "When,  gods,  ye,  like  strenuous  men,** 
replenished  the  worlds,  then  ye  drew  forth  the  sun  which  was  hidden 
in  the  (aerial?)  ocean.  8.  Of  the  eight  sons"'  of  Aditi  who  were 
born  from  her  body,  she  approached  the  gods  with  seven,  and  cast  out 
Marttanda  (the  eighth).  9.  "With  seven  sons  Aditi  approached  the 
former  generation  (of  gods) :  she  again  produced  Marttanda  for  birth  as 
well  as  for  death."* 


"'  Compare  R.V.  iv.  42,  6.  .  .  .  Xndralj,  iyarmi  renum  abhibhutyojah. 

^  Yatayah. — This  word  is  taken  by  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth  s.v.  as  the  name  of  as 
ancient  family  connected  with  the  Bhrigus,  E.V.  viii.  3,  9  ;  viii.  6,  18,  to  whom  some 
connection  with  the  formation  of  the  world  is  ascribed  in  x.  72,  7  (the  verse  before  us). 
The  word  also  occurs  in  E.V.  vii.  13,  1,  where  it  is  applied  to  Agni  {Vais'vanaraya 
yataye  maitnam).  The  second  of  the  verses  quoted  by  B.  and  R.  (viii.  6,  18)  is  as 
follows :  ye  Indra  yatayas  tva  Bhrigavo  ye  cha  tuahtuvuh  \  mama  id  tigra  s'rudhi 
havam  \  "  Indra,  the  Tatis,  and  the  Bhrigus,  who  praised  thee : — hear,  o  fiery  god,  my 
invocation."  Here  a  family  of  men  may  be  meant,  as  also  in  viii.  3,  9  {yena  yatibhyo 
STirigme  dhamehite).  In  one  of  the  few  verses  of  the  Sama-reda  which  are  not  found 
in  the  E..V.,  viz.  ii.  304,  (but  which  is  not  referred  to  in  B,  and  E.'s  Lexicon,  although 
the  parallel  passage  in  the  A.V.  ii.  5,  3,  which  has  some  different  readings,  is  cited) 
the  words  Yati  and  Bhrigu  both  occur :  Indras  iurashan  Mitro  naja-glmnii  Vrittram 
Yaiir  na  |  bibheda  Balam  Bhrigur  na  sasahe  iatrun  made  somasya  \  "  The  impetuous 
Indra  slew  Vrittra  as  (did)  Mitra,  as  (did)  the  Yati ;  he  pierced  Bala  as  (did)  Bhrigu ; 
he  overcame  his  enemies  in  the  exhilaration  of  the  soma-juioe."  The  parallel  passage 
of  the  A.V.  (in  Eoth  and  Whitney's  ed.)  reads  yaiir  na,  the  accusative  feminine,  instead 
of  yatir  na,  the  nom.  masc.  The  Lexicon  also  refers  to  the  Ait.  Br.  vii.  28  (quoted 
in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work  (2nd  ed.)  pp.  437  f.),  where  Indra  is  said  to  have 
abandoned  the  Yatis  to  wolves ;  and  to  other  passages  in  which  the  same  legend  in 
noticed. 

s'  Compare  A.V.  viii.  9,  21 :  ashta-yonir  Aditir  ashta-putra  |  In  the  Taitt.  Aran- 
yaka  i.  13,  1,  the  Earth  is  said  to  have  had  eight  births,  eight  sons,  and  eight  hus- 
bands [ashtayomm  ashtaputram  ashtapatmm  imam  mahim). 

"'  The  8th  and  9th  verses  are  quoted  in  the  Taittirlya  Aranyaka  i.  13,  2,  3 ; 
where  the  reading  of  the  last  line  of  verse  9,  is  as  follows :  prajayai  mrityave  tat 
para  marttandam  abharai  \  The  commentator  explains  the  last  verse  thus :  "  Aditi 
approached  her  husband  preparatory  to  the  procreation  of  her  sons,  and  with  a  view 
to  their  birth ;  and  she  abandoned  M  arttanda  that  he  might  die  "  [iad-utpadanartham 
"punyam  yugam"  tad  utpatli-purva-kalmam  pati-aamyogam  "prajayai"  prajot- 
patty-artham  " upaprait"  prlti-punaham  praptavatl  \  .  ,  .  Marttandalehyam  ash- 
tamam  putram  "paraiharat"  parityaktavatl  iti  pat  tat  "mrityave"  mrityu-nimit- 
tam  I  Marltan^o  hi  mrityor  eva  hetur  na  prnjabhivriddheh]),  and  he  adds  that 
"Marttanda  means  one  in  consequence  of  whose  birth  the  egg  has  become  dead" 
{mritam  anifam  yadtya-janmana  sa  Maritan4ah) ;  according  to  the  Smrili :  mrite  'nda 
jayate  yasmad  Marttanda^  sa  udahritah  1  "  He  is  called  Marttanda  because  he  was 

i 


50  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY. 

Taska  has  the  following  remarks  on  verse  4  of  this  hymn  in  the 
Nirukta,  xi.  23 : 

Adityo  Dakshah  ity  aJmr  Aditya-madhye  cha  stutah  |  Aditir  Bdkshd- 
yani  "  Aditer  Daksho  qfdyaia  BahsMd  «  Aditih  pari"  iti  dm  \  tat 
katltam  upapadyeta  \  samana-janmanau  sydtam  iti  \  api  vd  deva-dha/r- 
mena  itaretara-janmdncm  sydtdm  itaretara-prakriti  \ 

"  Daksha  is,  they  say,  an  Aditya  (or  son  of  Aditi),  and  is  praised 
among  the  Adityas.  And  Aditi  is,  on  the  other  hand,  the  daughter  of 
Daksha  (according  to  this  text),  '  Daksha  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi 
from  Daksha.'  How  can  this  be  possible  ?  They  may  have  had  the 
same  origin ;  or,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  gods,  they  may  have 
been  born  from  each  other,  and  have  derived  their  substance  from  each 
other.".'' 

Another  instance  of  the  same  reciprocal  generation  is  found  in  E.V. 
X.  90,  5  :  Tasmdd  Virad  ajdyata  Yvrdjo  adhi  Furuskah  \  "  From  him 
(Purusha)  sprang  Viraj  ;  and  from  Viraj  (sprang)  Purusha." 

torn  when  the  egg  was  dead."  See  also  the  549th  line  of  the  Harivamsa  quoted  in  the 
4th  Tol.  of  this  work,  p.  11,  note.  The  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iii.  1,  3,  3  (already 
quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  12),  has  the  following  explanation  of  the  8th 
Terse :  Ashtau  ha  vai  putrah  Aditeh  |  yams  tv  etad  devSh  Adityah  ity  aohalcshate 
mpia  ha  eva  te  |  avikritam  ha  ashtamam  janayanchaleara  Marttandam  |  samdegho  ha 
eva  asa  yavan  eva  urdhvas  iavams  tiryan  purmha-sammitah  ity  «  ha  eke  ahuh  |  4.  Te 
«  ha  ete  uohur  devah  Adityah  "  yad  asman  anu  ajaniina  tad  arrmya  iva  hhud  hanta 
imam  mkaravama "  iti  tain  mehajcrur  yatha  ay  am  purusho  vikritah  \  tasya  yani 
mamsani  sanhriiya  sannyasus  tato  hasii  samabhavat  |  .  .  .  Yam  u  ha  tad  vichakrus  sa 
Vivasvan' Adityas  tasya  imah  prajah  \  "Aditi  had  eight  sons.  But  there  were  only 
seyen  (of  them)  whom  men  call  the  Aditya  deities.  For  she  bore  the  eighth,  Mart- 
tanda,  undeveloped  into  any  distinctions  of  shape  (without  hands,  feet,  etc. — Comm.), 
and  quite  smooth  and  uniform,  as  broad  as  he  was  long,  or  of  the  size  of  a  man, 
according  to  some.  The  Aditya  gods  said  '  If  in  his  nature  he  does  not  resemble  us, 
it  will  be  fatal ;  come  let  us  shape  him."  They  did  so  as  this  man  is  shaped.  The 
flesh  which  they  cut  off  him,  and  threw  away,  became  an  elephant.  ...  He  whom 
they  so  shaped  was  the  Aditya  Vivasvat,  of  whom  come  these  creatures."  The  passage 
of  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  vi.  S,  6,  1,  quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work  p.  26,  also  alludes 
to  Aditi's  second  parturition  having  resulted  in  an  abortive  egg  {vyriddham  andam). 

•5  In  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta  (p.  151)  Professor  Eoth  thus  translates  the  4th 
and  5th  verses  of  this  hymn :  "  Bhu  (the  world)  was  born,  and  from  her  opened  womb 
sprang  the  Regions ;  from  Aditi  (Eternity)  was  born  Daksha  (spiritual  power),  and 
from  Daksha  again  Aditi.  5.  Tes,  Aditi  was  born,  o  Daksha,  she  who  is  thy 
daughter ;  after  her  sprang  forth  the  gods,  the  blessed  possessors  of  immortality."  He 
then  proceeds :  "  Daksha,  (spiritual  power)  is  the  male  energy,  which  generates  the 
gods  in  eternity.  As  Bhu  (the  world,  or  being)  and  space  are  the  principles  of  the 
finite,  so  both  of  these  are  the  originators  of  divine  life." 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN    THE    EIG-VEDA,  51 

Daksha  and  Aditi  are  connected  in  two  other  texts : 

X.  5,  7.  Asach  cha  sack  cha  parame  vyoman  BaksJmsya  janmann  AMter 
tipasthe  I  Agnir  nah  pratkamajah  ritasya  purve  ayuni  vrishahhas  cha 
dhenuh  [  "(A  principle)  not  existing  (actually),  but  existing  (poten- 
tially) in  the  highest  heaven,  in  the  creative  potency  of  Daksha  and  in 
the  womb  of  Aditi, — Agni  (became)  in  a  former  age  the  first  bom  of 
our  ritual,  and  is  both  a  vigorous  bull  and  a  cow."  °° 

X.64,  5.  Bakshasya  va  Adite  janmani  wate  rajana  Mitra-va/runa,  a 
vwasasi  \  "  Thou,  o  Aditi,  dost  tend  the  two  kings  Mitra  and  Yaruna 
after  the  production  and  by  the  wiU  of  Daksha."  " 

Though  the  above  passage,  x.  72,  4,  5,  represents  Daksha  as  at  once 
the  father  and  the  son  of  Aditi,  the  older  Yedic  mythology,  as  we  shall 
see  from  R.V.  ii.  27,  1,  in  the  next  section,  describes  him  as  one  of  the 
Adityas,  and  consequently  as  her  son.  There  are,  however,  two  other 
passages,  vi.  50,  2,  and  vii.  66,  2,  ini  which  the  epithet  Daksha-pitri  is 
applied  to  the  gods,  and  a  third,  viii.  25,  5,  in  which  two  of  the 
Adityas  are  .styled  sunu  dakshasya  sukratu.  What  ia  the  signification 
of  these'  epithets  ?     The  first  of  the  passages,  vi.  50-,  2,  is  as  follows : 

Siy'yotishak  surya  I)ahsha-pitrm  andgastve  Bwmako  viM  devan  |  dvyam- 
mano  ye  ritasapah  satyah  svarvanto  yajatah  Agni-jihoah  \  "  0'  mighty 
Surya,  visit  in  sinlessness  the  resplendent  gods,  the  sons  of  Daksha,  [or 
possessors  of  powers],  who  have  two  births,  are  holy,  true,  celestial, 
adorable,  and  have  Agni  on  their  tongues." 

vii.  66,  2.  Yd  dharayanta  devah  sudahha  Dahha'pitara  \  asuryaya 
pramahasd  \  "  Which  two  wise  gods  (i.e.  Mitra  and  Varuna),  the  mighty 
sons  of  Daksha, —  [or  possessors  of  powers], —  the  deities  have  esta^ 
Wished  to  exercise  divine  rule." 

In  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita,  i.  2,  3,  1  (p.  309  in  Bibl.  Ind.),  the  same 
epithet  is  applied  to  the  gods  :  Ye  devah  manoj'atdhmanoyig'ahsudahhdh 
Dahhapitaras  te  nah  pSntu  |  "May  those  deities  who  are  mind-born, 
mind-exerting,  intelligent,  who  have  DaJiisha  for  their  father,™  protect 
and  deliver  us,"  etc. 

98  See  Langlois'  version.  Muller  (Trans,  of  the  E.V.  i.  234)  renders  tie  first  line 
only,  and  does  not  advert  to  the  second. 

"  See  Miiller's  version  in  his  Trans,  of  the  E.V.  i.  p.  234.  In  his  Illustrations 
of  the  Nirukta,  p.  151,  Eoth  translates  the  line  "  And  thou,  o  Aditi,  who  after  their  pro- 
duction by  Daksha,  and  by  his  command,  servest  the  two  kings  Mitra  and  Varuna,"  etc. 

*s  The  commentator  explains  the  word  Daksha-pitarah  as  =  DaAshah  prajapatir 
vtpadalco  yesham  te,  "  those  of  whom  the  Frajapati  Daksha  is  the  generator." 


52  THE  INDIAIT   GODS    GENEEALLY, 

Doubt  may  be  throvm  on  the  propriety  of  taking  Daksha  in  tbe  pre- 
ceding passages  to  represent  a  person,  from  the  fact  that  in  E.Y.  viii. 
25,  5,  Mitra  and  Yaruna  are  not  only  called  the  "strong  sons  of 
Baksha"  (sunn,  Dakshaiya  iukratu),  but  also  the  "grandsons  of  mighty 
strength"  (mpata  imaso  mahah).  In  his  interpretation  of  vi.  50,  2, 
Say  ana  explains  Dahha-pitrin  as  Dakshah  pitamaho  yesham  te  \  "they 
of  whom  Daksha  is  the  progenitor."  In  the  second  passage  vii.  66,  2, 
however,  he  takes  the  same  compound  to  signify  the  preservers,  or 
lords  of  strength"  (fialasya palakau  svaminem  va).  The  epithet  "son 
of  strength"  {sahasasputra,  sahasah  sunu)  is  applied  to  Agni  viii.  49,  2  ; 
viii.  60,  11 ;  viii.  64,  3  ;  and  iavasah  pvtra  "  son  of  might"  to  Indra 
in  viii.  79,  3,  and  viii.  81,  14.  In  viii.  58,  4,  Indra  is  called  the 
"son  of  truth"  (sUnum  satyasya);  and  the  gods  are  called  "sons  of 
immortality"  in  vi.  52,  9  (.sunavak  amritasya),  and  in  x.  13, 1  {amritasya 
putrah).  Professor  Eoth  in  his  Lexicon  assigns  to  dakshapitarah  the 
sense  of  "preserving,  possessing,  bestowing  powers;"  and  supports  his 
view  by  quoting  various  other  texts  of  the  E.V.  This  signification  is 
approved  by  Dr.  Kuhn  in  his  review  of  this  article.  Professor  Miiller 
translates  the  word  by  "fathers  of  strength,"  Trans,  of  R.V.i.  235  f. 

In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ii.  4,  4,  2,  Daksha  is  identified  with 
Prajapati,  or  the  creator."" 

The  part  which  he  plays  in  the  later  mythology,  founded,  no  doubt, 
on  the  Vedic  texts  which  I  have  quoted,  may  be  seen  by  consulting 
Professor  "Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  Dr.  Hall's  edition,  vol.  i.  pp.  100, 
108  ff. ;  vol.  ii.  pp.  9-26,  and  vol.  iii.  p.  230.  According  to  the  first 
account  he  is  one  of  Brahma's  mind-born  sons  (p.  100),  and  marries 
Prasuti  (p.  108),  who  bears  him  twenty-four  daughters,  among  whom 
Aditi  is  not  specified.  In  the  second  account,  however  (vol.  ii.  p.  26), 
Aditi  is  mentioned  as  one  of  his  sixty  daughters  who,  along  with  Diti, 
Danu,  and  ten  others,  is  said  to  have  been  given  in  marriage  to 
Ea^yapa,  to  whom  she  (Aditi)  bore  the  twelve  Adityas  (p.  27.  See 
also  the  M.  Bh.  Adi-parva,  3135.)  According  to  the  third  account 
(vol.  iii.  p.  230),  Aditi  is  said  to  be  the  daughter  of  Daksha,  and  the 
mother  of  Vivasvat,  the  Sun.  In  a  passage  in  one  of  the  recensions  of 
the  Ramayana  (Sohlegel,  i.  31,  Calc.  ed.  i.  29),  in  the  Mahabharata, 

°'  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  24.  In  the  sequel  of  the  passage  in  the  S'.  P. 
Bi.,  ii.  4,  4,  6,  a  person  named  Daksha,  the  son  of  Farvata,  is  mentioned. 


AS  EEPEESENTED  IN  THE  EIG-VEDA.  53 

and  in  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  viii.  16,  1  ff.,  Aditi  is  described  as  the 
wife  of  Ka^yapa,  and  the  mother  of  Vishnu  in  his  dwarf  incarnation. 
(See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  116  ff.) 

An  older  authority,  however,  the  Vaj.  Sanhita,  gives  quite  a  different 
account  of  the  relation  of  Aditi  to  Vishnu,  as  it  (xxLx.  60  =  Taitt.  S. 
vii.  5,  14,  1)  represents  her  to  he  his  wife  {AMtyai  Vishnu-patnyai 
charuh.^'"  In  the  following  passage  of  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita  iv.  (p.  S'ia 
of  the  India  OfS,oe  MS.)  also  she  is  similarly  described :  Vishfambho 
Ako  dharumh  prithmyd  myesana  jagato  Vishnu-patnl  \  viiva-vyach&h 
ishayantl  suihutih  iiva  no  astu  Aditir  upasthe  \  "  Supporter  of  the  sky, 
sustainer  of  the  earth,  sovereign  of  this  world,  wife  of  Vishnu,  may 
the  aU-embracing  and  powerful  Aditi,  filling  us  with  vigour,  be 
auspicious  to  us  (abiding)  in  her  lap." 

'f"  In  A.V.  vii.  46,  3,  SiniTali  seems  to  te  called  the  -wife  of  Vishnu  ( Viahnoh  pattii). 
Another  goddess  is  said  in  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  1,  2,  6,  to  he  the  wife  of  the  same  god 
{Mahim  drnim,  Vishnupattiim). 


54  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 


SECTION"   IV. 

THE   ADITTAS. 

The  sons  of  Aditi  specified  in  E.V.  ii.  27,  1,  are  these  six :  Mitra, 
Aryaman,  Bhaga,  Varuna,  Daksha,  and  Amia  {Ima^  gwalj,  Adityebhyo 
ffhritasnuh  sanad  rajdbhyo  juTwd  juhomi  \  irinotu  Mitro  Aryama  Bliago 
nas  tuvyato  Varum  Dahsho  Amsah  |).  In  ix.  114,  3,  the  Adityas  are 
spoken  of  as  seven  in  number,  but  their  names  are  not  mentioned  (devah 
aditydh  ye  sapta  tebhih  somalhiraksha  nah)}"^  In  x.  72,  8,  9,  as  we  have 
already  seen,  it  is  declared  that  Aditi  had  eight  sons,  of  whom  she  only 
presented  seven  to  the  gods,  casting  out  Marttanda,  the  eighth,  though 
she  is  said  to  have  afterwards  brought  him  forward.  Here,  again,  the 
names  of  the  rest  are  omitted.  In  A.Y.  viii.  9,  21,  also,  as  quoted  above, 
p.  38,  Aditi  is  said  to  have  had  eight  sons.  Surya  is,  in  a  few  places, 
spoken  of  as  an  Aditya,  viz.  in  E.V.  i.  50, 12  {ud  agad  ay  am  Adityak) ;  i. 
191,  9  (ud  apaptad  asau  suryah  .  .  .  Adityah) ;  viii.  90,  11  ;"*  and 
as  an  Aditeya  (this  word  equally  means  '  son  of  Aditi '),  identified  with 
Agni,  he  is  said  (x.  88,  11),"'  to  have  been  placed  by  the  gods  in  the 
sky.  In  viii.  18,  3,  Savitri  is  named  along  with  Bhaga,  Varuna,  Mitra, 
and  Aryaman,  four  of  the  Adityas,  after  that  class  of  deities  had  been 
celebrated  generally  in  the  preceding  verse.  Surya  or  Savitri  there- 
fore appears  to  have  a  certaia  claim  to  be  considered  the  seventh 
Aditya  (compare  A.V.  xiii.  2,  9,  and  37,  where  the  sun  is  called  the 
son  of  Aditi,  Aditeh  putrah  and  Aditya^  putr am).  We  have  seen  above 
(pp.  13  f.,  note  19)  that  Indra  also  is  in  one  passage  (E.V.  vii.  85,  4), 

'"1  See  the  4th.  vol,  of  this  work,  pp.  101  ff.,  -where  these  and  many  other  passages 
relating  to  the  Adityas  are  quoted. 

w>  The  last-mentioned  text  is  as  follows :  Sm  mahan  asi  Surya  bal  Aditya  mahan 
(MS  I  ...  .  £at  Surya  iravasa  mahan  asi  \  "  0  great  art  thou,  Surya !  0  son  of 
Aditi,  thou  art  great !  ....  0  Surya,  in  renown  thou  art  great,"  etc. 

los  Yaded  enam  adadhur  yajniyaao  dvoi  devah  Suryam  Aditeyam.  See  Nirukta  ii. 
13  ;  vii.  29.  In  x.  37,  1,  however,  the  Sun  is  called  the  Son  of  the  Heaven  {divas 
putraya  suryaya) ;  and  there  as  well  as  elsewhere  he  is  called  the  eye  of  Mitra  and 
Varuna. 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN   THE   EIG-VEDA.  55 

addressed  as  an  Aditya  along  with  Yaruna.'"*  In  A.V.  viii.  2,  15,  the 
Sun  and  Moon  are  called  Adityas  (tattra  tvd  "dUyau  rakshaidm  surya- 
chandramasav  uhh.au  \).  In  A.V.  ix.  1,  4,  the  golden-hued  Madhukasa 
is  said  to  be  the  mother  of  the  Adityas,  and  the  daughter  of  the  Vasus 
{Matd"  ditydnaih  duMtd  Fasundm  .  .  .  .  h,vranya-varnd  Madhukaid). 

In  the  Taittiriya  Veda  (quoted  by  Sayana  on  E.Y.  ii.  27,  1)  the 
Adityas  are  said  to  be  eight  ia  number :  Mitra,  Varuna,  Dhatri,  Arya- 
man,  Amsu,  {sie)  Bhaga,  Indra,  and  Vivasvat.  Here  five  names  corre- 
spond -with  those  given  in  E.V.  ii.  27,  1,  while  Daksha  is  omitted, 
and  three  names  are  added,  Dhatri,  Vivasvat  (who  may  be  identified 
with  Surya),  and  Indra. 

The  same  names  are  given  in  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  i.  1,  9,  1  (a 
passage  already  cited  in  the  1st.  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  27,  but  repeated 
here  for  facility  of  reference) : 

Aditih putrakdmd  Bddhyebhyo  develhyo  Irahmaudanam  apaehat  |  tasyai 
uchheshamm  adaduh  \  tat  prdindt  \  sd  reto  ^dhatta  \  tasyai  DMtd  cha 
Aryamd  cha  ajdyetdm  \  sd  dvitiyam  a^acliat  \  2.  Tasyai  uchheshamm 
adaduh  |  tat  prdindt  \  sd  reto  'dhatta  tasyai  Mitrai  cha  Varunas  cha 
ajdyetdm  \  sd  tritlyam  apachat  \  tasyai  uehheshanam  adaduh  \  tat  prdi- 
ndt I  sd  reto  'dhatta  \  tasyai  Amkas  cha  Bhagai  cha  ajdyetdm,  \  sd  eha- 
turtham  apachat  \  tasyai  uohhesliianam  adaduh  \  tat  prdindt  \  sd  reto 
'dhatta  I  tasyai  Indrai  eha  Yivasvdmi  cha  cy'dyetdm  \ 

"  Aditi,  being  desirous  of  sons,  cooked  a  brahmaudana  oblation  for 
the  gods  the  Sadhyas.  They  gave  her  the  remains  of  it,  which  she  ate. 
She  conceived,  and  Dhatri  and  Aryaman  were  born  to  her."  The  same 
-thing  is  done  a  second  time,  when  she  brings  forth  Mitra  and  Varuna, 
. — a  third  time,  when  she  bears  A,m^a  and  Bhaga, — and  a  fourth  time, 
when  she  gives  birth  to  Indra  and  Vivasvat.  (Comp.  the  passage  from 
the  Taitt.  Sanh.  vi.  5,  6, 1,  quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  26  f.) 
.In  one  place  (iii.  1,  3,  8),  already  quoted  in  p.  50,  the  S'atapatha  Brah- 
mana speaks  of  the  Adityas  as  becoming  eight  by  the  addition  of  Matt- 
tanda ;  but  in  two  other  passages  (vi.  1,  2,  8 ;  xi.  6,  3,  8),  quoted  in 
the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  102,  as  being  twelve  in  number.  In  the 
first  of  these  two  latter  texts  they  are  said  to  have  sprung  from  twelve 
drops  generated  by  Prajapati  (in  which  case  they  could  not  have  been 

10*  Although  in  their  Sanhita  text  both  Miiller  and  Aufreoht  read  AdityS,  they  both 
give  Aditya  the  dual  as  the  reading  of  the  Fada  text. 


56  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

sons  of  Aditi),  and  in  the  second  they  are  identified  with  the  twelve 
months.  ""^  In  the  later  Indian  literature  they  are  always  said  to  be 
twelve  (see  the  passages  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  101-106). 

Professor  Eoth  (in  the  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vi.  68  f.)  has  the 
following  observations  on  the  Adityas  :  "  There  (in  the  highest  heaven) 
dwell  and  reign  those  gods  who  bear  in  common  the  name  of  Adityas. 
"We  must,  however,  if  we  would  discover  their  earliest  character,  aban- 
don the  conceptions  which  in  a  later  age,  and  even  in  that  of  the  heroic 
poems,  were  entertained  regarding  these  deities.  According  to  this 
conception  they  were  twelve  sun-gods,  bearing  evident  reference  to  the 
twelve  months.  But  for  the  most  ancient  period  we  must  hold  fast 
the  primary  signification  of  their  name.  They  are  the  inviolable,  im- 
perishable, eternal  beings.  Aditi,  eternity,  or  the  eternal,  is  the  ele- 
ment which  sustains  them  and  is  sustained  by  them."  See  above,  (p. 
37).  further  on  he  adds:  "The  eternal  and  inviolable  element  in 
which  the  Adityas  dwell,  and  which  forms  their  essence,  is  the  celestial 
light.  The  Adityas,  the  gods  of  this  Hght,  do  not  therefore  by  any 
means  coincide  with  any  of  the  forms  in  which  light  is  manifested  in 
the  universe.  They  are  neither  sun,  nor  moon,  nor  stars,  nor  dawn, 
but  the  eternal  sustainers  of  this  luminous  life,  which  exists,  as  it 
were,  behind  all  these  phenomena." 

In  some  of  the  hymns  were  the  Adityas  (under  which  name  Varuna, 
Mitra,  and  Aryaman  seem  chiefly,  if  not  exclusively,  to  be  intended), 
are  celebrated  (see  especially  ii.  27),  they  are  characterized  by  the 
epithets  "bright"  {suehayah),  "golden"  {hiranyayah),  "pure"  {dhara- 
piitdh),  "sinless"  {avrymah),  "blameless"  {anmadyah),  "holy,"(n<o«o- 
naK)  "strong"  {kshattriydh,\in.  56, 1),  "kings,"  "resistless"  (arishtak), 
"vast"  {wavah),  "deep"  {galMrSh),  sleepless "  ((M!;ap»B;»A),  "tm- 
winking"  {animishdh),'"^  "many-eyed"  (fihuryakshah,  ii.  27,  3),  "far- 
observing"  {dirghadhiyah),  "fixed  in  their  purpose"  {dhritavratah). 
Distant  things  are  near  to  them,  ii.  27,  3  {smrvam  rajabhyah  parama 

10!  In  the  S'.  P.  Br.  iii.  5,  1, 13,  a  dispute  tetween  the  Adityas  and  Angiraaes 
regarding  a  sacrifice  is  mentioned.  (Comp.  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  9,  21, 1).  In  the  same  work, 
(the  S'p.  Br.)  xii.  2,  2,  9,  it  is  said  that  these  two  classes  of  beings  (the  Adityas  and 
Angirases)  were  hoth  descendants  of  Prajapati,  and  that  they  strove  together  for  the 
priority  in  ascending  to  heaven.  In  A.V.  xii.  3,  43  f.,  and  xix.  39,  5  ako  they  are 
connected  with  one  another. 

'<"  This  is  a  characteristic  of  the  gods  in  general. 


AS   EEPRESENTED    IN    THE    EIG-YEDA,  57 

cMd  anti),  they  uphold  and  preserve  things  both  moving  and  stationary 
{dharantayajf  adityaso  jagat  sthah  devah  visvasya  hhuvanmya  gopah  \ 
ibid.),  they  see  the  good  and  evil  in  men's  hearts,  and  distinguish  the 
honest  man  from  the  deceitful,  ii.  27,  3  {antah  pakyanti  vrijana  uta 
sadhu  I  viii.  18,  15,  pdlcatrd  sthana  devah  hritsu  jdnitha  martyam  \  upa 
dmayum  elm  adoayum  cha),  they  are  holy  and  awful,  and  haters  of  false- 
hood and  punish  sin,  ii.  27,  4  {ritdvanak  chayamdnah  rindni),  vii.  60,  61 
{ime  ehetdro  anritasya  hhureh),  vii.  52,  2;  vii.  66,  13,  whiol  they  are 
entreated  to  forgive,  ii.  27, 14  ;  ii.  29,  5  ;  averting  from  the  -worshipper 
the  consequences  of  the  transgressions  of  others  as  well  as  of  his  own, 
vii.  52,  2 ;  viii.  47,  8 ;  or  transferring  those  penalties  of  sin,  whether 
open  or  secret,  to  the  head  of  Trita  Aptya,  viii.  47,  13  {yad  dvir  yad 
apiehyam  devdso  asti  dushhritam  \  Trite  tad  visvam  Aptye  are  asmad 
dadhdtana) ;""  and  they  spread  nooses  for  their  enemies,  ii.  27,  16  {ydh 
1)0  mdydh  ahhidrtihe  yq^'atrdh  pdsdh  dditydh  ripave  viehrittdh).  They 
are  supplicated  for  various  boons,  for  protection,  offspring,  guidance, 
light,  long  life,  etc.  (see  E.Y.  ii.  27,  5-7,  10,  11,  14;  viii.  18,  22. 
In  viii.  47,  2,  they  are  said  to  know  how  to  remove  transgressions,  and 
are  besought  to  extend  their  protection  to  their  worshipper,  as  birds 
spread  their  wings  over  their  young  {vida  devah  aghdndm  Aditydso  apd- 
kritim  \  pahhd  vayo  yafhd  upari  vi  asme  karma  yachhata  \  3.  Vi  asme 
adhi  ka/rma  tat  pahhd  vayo  na  yantana)}"^  Their  servants  are  protected 
by  them  as  a  warrior  is  when  encased  in  his  armour,  viii.  47,  8  {yushme 
devdh  api  smasi  yvdhyantah  iva  varmasu),  and  then  no  shaft,  however 
sharp  or  heavy,  can  strike  them  (ibid.  7  :  na  tarn  tigmam  ehana  tyajo  na 
drdmd  alihi  tarn  guru  \  yasmai  u  karma  arddkvam  |  See  Miiller,  Trans, 
p.  255). 

The  Adityas  regarded  as  a  class  of  gods  are  not,  however,  character- 
ized so  specifically  in  the  hymns,  as  two  of  the  individual  deities  who 
bear  that  general  designation,  I  mean  Varuna  and  Mitra ;  and  I  shall, 
therefore,  proceed  to  give  a  fuUer  account  of  the  two  latter,  (with  whose 
names  that  of  Aryaman  is  sometimes  associated),  omitting  any  further 
reference  to  Bhaga  and  Amsa,  who  are  rarely  mentioned,  and  to  Daksha, 
of  whom  something  has  been  already  said.  Surya  and  Savitri  will  be 
treated  separately. 

w  Eoth,  s.v.  Trita  Aptya,  says  this  god  Is  conceived  as  dwelling  in  the  remote 
distance,  removed  from  view,  and  that  it  is  in  consequence  of  this  that  evil  is  sought 
to  be  transferred  to  him. 


58  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 


SECTION    V. 

MITEA   AND   VAEUNA. 

(1)  General  idea  of  these  tioo  gods. 

These  two  deities  are  very  frequently  found  in  conjunction.  Varuna 
is  also  often  separately  celebrated ;  Mitra  but  seldom.  Their  frequent 
association  is  easily  explained  if  the  commentators  are  right  in  under- 
standing Mitra  to  represent  the  day,  and  Varuna  the  night.  Thus 
Sayana  says  on  E.V.  i.  89,  3  :  "Mitra  is  the  god  who  presides  over 
the  day,  according  to  the  Vedic  text,  '  the  day  is  Mitra's '  "  (ahar- 
abhimaninam  devam  |  "  Maitram  vai  ahwr "  iti  iruteK) ;  and  again, 
"Varuna  is  derived  from  the  root  vri,  to  cover;  he  envelops  the  wicked 
in  his  snares ;  and  is  the  god  who  rules  over  the  night,  according  to 
the  text,  'the  night  is  Varuna's"" ' "  (vrinoti  \  papahritah  svahiyaih 
pasavr  avrinoti  iti  ratry-abhimani-devo  Varunak  |  iruyate  eha  "  Varum 
ratrir"  [Taitt.  Br.  i.  7,  10,  1]  iti  |).  In  the  same  way  the  commen- 
tator on  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita,  i.  8,  16,  1  (Bibl.  Ind.  vol.  ii.  p.  164), 
affirms  that  the  "word  Mitra  denotes  the  sun"  {Mitra-iabdasya  surya- 
vdchitvat),  and  that  the  "word  Varuna  signifies  one  who  envelops  like 

I™  See  also  his  note  on  i.  141,  9,  where  lie  gives  the  same  explanation  regarding 
Mitra  and  Varana,  and  adds  that  Aryaman  is  the  god  who  goes  hetween  the  other 
two  {Aryama  ubhayor  madhya-vartCi  dffsali).  According  to  his  note  on  i.  90,  1, 
Aryaman  is  the  sun  who  makes  the  division  of  day  and  night  [Aryama  aho-ratra- 
vibhagasya  kartta  suryah).  Compare  also  his  note  on  ii.  38,  8,  where  he  says  that 
Varuna  is  represented  as  giving  resting-places  to  creatures  after  sunset,  because  he 
carries  on  the  affairs  of  the  night  [Tonim  sthanam  nimishi  nimeshe  Scwitur  asta- 
smnaye  sati  nsramartham  pranihhyali  prayachhati  \  Varunasya  ratrer  nirvahSia- 
tvat).  In  i.  35,  1,  Mitra  and  Varuna  are  invoked  along  with  Agni,  Night  and 
Savitri :  "  I  invoke  first  Agni  for  our  welfare ;  I  invoke  hither  Mitra  and  Varuna  to 
our  aid ;  I  invoke  Night  who  gives  rest  to  the  world ;  I  invoke  the  divine  Savitri  to 
our  assistance  "  {Avayami  Agnim  prathamam  svastaye  h/nayami  Mitra-varunav  iha- 
vase  I  hoayami  ratrtmjayato  nwesmiim  kvayami  devam  iSavitaram  utaye). 


AS    EEPRESENTED    IN    THE   EIG-VEDA,  69 

darkness"  (^Varum-ialdasya  andhaMra-vad  dvaraha-vdchitvat),  accord- 
ing to  the  text  (above  given,  in  p.  58,  of  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana, 
i.  V,  10,  1),  "  the  day  is  Mitra's  and  the  night  is  Varuna's."  In 
another  part  of  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  vi.  4,  8,  we  read  :  JVa  vai  idwm 
diva  na  nahtam  dsld  avydhritam  \  te  devdh  Miird-varundv  airman 
"idam  no  vivdsayatam  "  iti  |  .  .  .  .  Mitro  'Jiar  qjmaifad  Varmo  rdtrim  | 
"  This  •world  had  neither  day  nor  night,  hut  was  (in  that  respect)  un- 
distinguished. The  gods  said  to  Mitra  and  Varuna,  '  Make  a  separa- 
tion.' ....  Mitra  produced  the  day,  and  Taruna  the  night."  •  (See 
the  same  Sanhita  ii.  1,  7,  4.)  In  E.V.  viii.  41,  3,  it  is  said  of  Yaruna, 
"  The  conspicuous  god  has  embraced  the  nights,  by  his  wisdom  he  has 
established  the  days,  and  everything  perfectly"  {sa  hhapah parishasvaj'e 
ni  usro  mdyayd  dadhe  sa  visvam  pari  darSatah  |).  In  his  note  on 
another  passage  (R.V.  vii.  87,  1)  Sayana  says  that  it  is  the  setting 
sun  which  is  called  Varuna,  who  by  his  departure  creates  the  nights 
{Astam  gaohihan  suryah,  eva  Varunah  ity  uchyate  \  sa  hi  sva-gamanena 
rdtrlr  janayati  |).  The  Satapatha  Brahmana,  xii.  9,  2,  12,  says: 
"This  (terrestrial)  world  is  Mitra;  the  other  (the  celestial)  world  is 
Varuna  "  {ay am  vai  loko  Mitrah  \  asau  Varunah  \ )    . 

(2)  Their  chief  character isties. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  principal  characteristics  of  these  gods,  as 
represented  in  the  Eig-veda.  Varuna  is,  sometimes  at  least,  visible  to  the 
mental  eye  of  his  worshippers.  Thus,  in  i.  25, 18,  the  rishi  says  :  Darsam 
nut,  visva-dariaiam  dariam  ratham  adhi  kshami  \  "I  beheld  him  who  is 
visible  to  aU;  I  beheld  his  chariot  upon  the  ground."  In  vii.  88,  2, 
also,  the  poet  exclaims :  Adha  nu  asya  sandriiam  jaganvdn  Agner  ani- 
Icam  Varunasya  mamii  |  ""When  I  have  obtained  a  vision  of  Varuna,  I 
have  regarded  his  lustre  as  resembling  that  of  Agni."  "°  Mighty  and 
fixed  in  purpose,  he  sits  in  his  abode  exercising  sovereignty  (i.  25,  10 : 
Ni  shasdda  dhritavrato  Varunah  pastydsu  d\  samrdj'ydya  sukratuh]).  He 
is  arrayed  in  golden  mail,"'  and  surrounded  by  his  messengers  or 
angels  (i.  25,  13 :  JBihhrad  drdpim  hiranyayam  Varuno  vasta  nirnijam  | 

11"  See  Eoth's  article  on  "  The  highest  gods  of  the  Arian  races,"  Journ.  Germ.  Or. 
Society,  vi.  71. 
1"  Golden  mail  is  also  assigned  to  Savitri  (iv.  53,  2). 


60  THE   INDIAN  GODS   GENERALLY, 

pari  spaso  ni  shedire).  His  house,  at  whicli  the  worshippers  are  said  to 
have  arrived,  has  a  thousand  doors  (viL  88,  5 :  Brihantam  mdnafh 
Varum  svadhavah  8ahasrach)dra&  jagama  grikam  te).  Again  he  is 
described  as  occupying,  along  with  Mitra,  a  stable  palace  supported  by  a 
thousand  columns  "'  (iL  41,  5  :  Rajand  anahkidruM  dhrme  sadasi  ut- 
tame  \  sahasrasthune  asate  \  v.  62,  6 :  Sdjand  hhattram  ahrimyamdnd 
sahasrasthunam,  hibhrithah  saha  dvau  |).  The  two  deities  ascend  their 
chariot,  which  is  drawn  by  horses,  and  is  golden-coloured  at  the  break 
of  day,  and  takes  the  hue  of  iron  at  the  setting  of  the  sun  (v.  62,  8, 
already  quoted  in  p.  42)."'  Mounted  on  their  car,  and  soaring  in  the 
highest  empyrean,  they  behold  all  things  in  heaven  and  earth  (v.  62, 

4,  8 ;  v.  63,  1  :  Ritasya  gopdv  adhi  tishthato  ratham  satyadharmdna 
parame  vyomani).     Varuna  is  said  to  be  farsighted  {uruchakshas,  i.  25, 

5,  16;  viii.  90,  2);  and  thousand-eyed  {sahasrachakshas,  vii.  34,  10). 
In  one  place  mention  is  made  of  his  golden-winged  messenger  {Jivranya- 
pakiham,  Varmasya  dutam,  x.  123,  6),  and  elsewhere  the  sun  is  called 
the  eye  of  Mitra  and  Varuna  {chahhur  Mitrasya  Varunasya,  vii.  61, 
1 ;  vii.  63,  1 ;  x.  37,  1).  Along  with  Aryaman,  another  of  the 
Adityas,  these  two  gods  are  called  sun-eyed  {surachakshasah,  vii.  66, 
10).  They  are  also  denominated  sttpani,  the  beautiful  or  skilful-handed. 
Varuna  is  frequently  spoken  of  as  a  king  {rdjd  Varunah,  i.  24,  7,  8 ; 
iv.  1,  2;  V.  40,  7;  vii.  64,  1 ;  x.  103,  9;  x.  173,  5);  as  king  of  all 
(x.  132,.  4) ;  as  king  of  all,  both  gods  and  men  (ii.  27,  10 :  tvam  vii- 
msMm  Varuna  asi  rdja  ye  eha  devdh  asura  ye  cha  marttdh  |) ;  as  king 
of  the  universe  (visvasya  bhuvanasya,  v.  85,  3),  and  of  all  that  exists 
{mio  asya,  vii.  87,  6) ;  as  an  universal  monarch  {samrdt,  i.  25,  10 ;  ii. 
28,  6;  V.  85,  1 ;  vi.  68,  9;  viii.  42,  1);  as  a  self-dependent  ruler 
svar-df,  ii.  28,  1).  The  same  epithets  of  king  and  universal  monarch 
are  also  applied  in  other  places  to  Mitra  and  Varuna  conjointly  (as  in 
i.  71,  9  ;  i.  136, 1,  4 ;  i.  137, 1 ;  v.  62,  6 ;  v.  63,  2,  3,  5  ;  v.  65,  2 ;  v.  68, 
2;  vii.  64,  2;  viii.  23,  30;  viii.  25,  4,  7,  8 ;  viii.  90,  2;  x.  65,  6)."* 

1'*  Compare  Ovid.  Met.  ii.  1  ff.  Eegia  Solis  era*  sublimibns  alta  colunmis,  etc. 
His  goldfin  house  is,  according  to  A.V.  vii.  83,  1,  biult  in  the  waters  (apsu  te  rajan 
Ya/rima  griho  Jiiranyayo  mitah). 

"'  I  follow  Eoth  here  in  understanding  udita  mrymya  not  of  the  rising  (as  the 
phrase  generally  means),  but  of  the  setting  of  the  sun.  It  is  thus  only  that  the  iron 
colour  of  the  chariot  becomes  intelligible. 

1'*  The  same  deities  with  Aryaman  are  called  kings  in  i.  41,  3  ;  and  kings  of  men 


AS    REPRESENTED   IN   THE   RIG-VEDA.  61 

Po-wer,  martial  strength,  or  sovereign  authority,  Icshattra,  is  also 
constantly  predicated  of  one  or  hoth  of  these  deities ;  and  they  as  well 
as  the  Adityas  generally  are  denominated  the  strong,  or  martial,  gods, 
hliattriyah  (as  in  i.  24,  6;  i.  25,  5 ;  i.  136,  1 ;  v.  66,  2 ;  v.  67,  1 ; 
T.  68,  1,  3;  vi.  49,  1;  vi.  61,  10;"»  vi.  67,  5,  6;  vii.  34,  11;  vii. 
64,  2 ;  viii.  25,  8 ;  Tiii.  56,  1 ;  viii.  90,  2).  They  are  also  designated 
as  rudra,  the  terrihle  (v.  70,  2,  3) ;  as  aswa,  the  divine  (vii.  36,  2  ; 
viii.  25,  4 ;  viii.  27,  20) ;  as  the  divine  and  lordly  deities  {asura  tav 
arya)  among  the  gods  (vii.  65,  2).  The  epithet  aswa,  divine,  is  fre- 
quently applied  to  Varuna  in  particular  (as  in  i.  24,  14;  ii.  27,  10  ; 
V.  85,  5,  6;  viii.  42,  1),  though  it  is  also  given  to  other  deities  of  the 
Vedio  pantheon. 

Another  word  employed  to  express  their  divine  power,  or  wisdom,  is 
moya;"*  and  Varuna  is  sometimes  called  the  mdyin,  the  possessor  of 
this  attribute  (vi.  48,  14;  vii.  28,  4;  x.  99,  10;  x.  147,  5).  "While 
in  some  places  (iii.  61,  7  ;  v.  63,  4)  this  quality  {maya)  is  ascribed  to 
the  two  deities  themselves,  in  other  verses  of  the  last  quoted  hymn 
(v.  63,  8,  7)  they  are  said  to  cause  the  heaven  to  rain,  and  to  uphold 
their  ordinances,  through  the  power  {mayaya)  of  the  divine  being 
[aswasya).  It  might  appear  as  if  the  word  amra  denoted  here  some  great 
deity  distinct  from,  and  superior  to,  Mitra  and  Varuna,  through  whose 
strength  they  acted ;  but  in  other  places,  as  we  have  already  seen,  the 
term  amra  is  distinctly  used  as  an  epithet  of  Varuna  and  the  other 
Adityas. 

(3)  Functions  and  attributes  of  Varum. 

The  grandest  cosmical  functions,  are  ascribed  to  Varuna.  Possessed 
of  illimitable  resources  (or  knowledge),  this  divine  being  has  meted 
out,  (or  fashioned),  and  upholds,  heaven  and  earth ;  he  dwells  in  all 
worlds  as  sovereign  ruler  (viii.42,  1  :  Astahhnad  dydm  asuro  viha- 
vedah  amimita  varimanam  prithivyah  \  asldad  viha  Ihuvanani  samrdd 
visva  it  tani  Varunasya  vratani),  indeed,  the  three  worlds  are  em- 

(rajanai  charshanmam)  in  x.  26,  6.  In  vii.  66,  11,  it  is  said:  "  Tlie  kings  Mitra, 
Varuna,  and  Aryaman,  who  establislied  the  year,  the  month,  and  the  day,  etc.,  enjoy 
unrivalled  dominion  [ye  vi  dadhuh  a'aradam  masam  ad  aha/r  yajnam  aktum  eha  ad 
richam  |  tmSpyam  Varum  Mitro  Aryama  kshatram  rajanah  asata). 

"5  In  these  two  last  passages  Agni  shares  with  Mitra  and  Varuna  the  epithet  of 


116  It  is  also  ascribed  to  other  deities :  see  Biihtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v. 


62  THE  INDIAN  GODS   GENERALLY, 

braced  within  him  (vii.  87,  5  :  tisro  dyavo  nihitdh  cmtar 
tisro  IhumlK)  ;  he  made  the  goMen  and  revolving  sun  to  shine 
in  the  firmament  (ibid,  gritso  raja  Varmai  chaTcre  etarh  divi  pren- 
Itham  hiranyayam  Suhh&  ham  |  comp.  v.  85,  2).  See  also  vi.  70,  1 ; 
vii.  86,  1;  vii.  87,  6;  viii.  41,  4,  5,  10.  The  wind  which  resounds 
through  the' atmosphere  is  his  breath  (vii.  87,  2  :  atma  te  vato  rajah  a 
naivmot).  He  has  opened  boundless  paths  for  the  sun,"'  and  has  hol- 
lowed out  channels  for  the  rivers,  which  flow  by  his  command  (i.  24, 
8  :  ITrum  M  raja  VarunaS  chahara  suryaya  pantKam  anu  etave  u  \  ii. 
28,  4 :  Fra  aim  Adityo  asrijad  vidhartta  ritam  sindhave  Varunasya 
yanti  \  vii.  87,  1 :  Eadat  paiho  Varmah  suryaya  praa  rndmsi  samudriya 
nadinam).  By  his  wonderful  contrivance  the  rivers  pour  their  waters 
into  the  one  ocean,  but  never  fill  it"^  (v.  85,  6 :  imam  u  nu  kavitam- 
asya  mayam,  mahlm  devasya  nakir  adadharsha  \  ekam  yad  udna  na  prin- 
anti  enir  asincJiantir  amnayah  samudram).  His  ordinances  are  fixed 
and  unassailable  '"  (iii.  54,  18  :  AdaMhani  Varunasya  vratdni).  They 
rest  on  him,  unshaken,  as  upon  a  mountain  (ii.  28,  8  :  Tve  hi  Icam  par- 
vate  na  Sritdni  apraehyutani  dulalha  vratdni  |  See  also  i.  25,  6,  10;  i.  44, 
14 ;  i.  141,  9;  ii.  1,  4;  viii.  25,  2,  where  the  word  dhrita-vrata,  "he 
whose  laws  are  fixed,"  is  found) ;  through  their  operation,  the  moon 
walks  in  brightness,  and  the  stars  which  appear  in  the  nightly  sky 
mysteriously  vanish  in  daylight  (i.  24,  10:  Ami  ye  rihhdh  nihitdsah 
uchehd  nahtam  dadriire  kuha  chid  divd  lyuh  \  addbdhdni  Varunasya 
vratdni  viohdlcaiach  chandramd  nalctam  eti).  Neither  the  birds  flying 
in  the  air,  nor  the  rivers  in  their  sleepless  flow,  can  attain  a  knowledge 
of  his  power  or  his  wrath  (i.  24,  6 :  iVa  hi  te  Icshatram  na  saho  na  man- 
yurh  vayak  chana  ami  patayantah  dpuh  \  na  imdh  dpo  animisham  cha- 
rantih).  His  messengers  behold  both  worlds  (vii.  87,  3  :  Pari  spaio 
Varunasya  smadishtdh  ubhe  paiyanti  rodasl  sumeJce  \  See  also  i.  24,  13; 
vi.  67,  5).  He  knows  the  flight  of  birds  in  the  sky,  the  path  of  ships 
on  the  ocean,  the  course  of  the  far-travelling  wind,  and  beholds  aU  the 

"'  In  yii.  60,  4,  Mitra,  Varuna,  and  Aryaman  are  said  to  open  out  paths  for  the 
sun  (j/aamai  adityah  adhvano  radcmti  ityadi). 

"9  See  Eoth  on  "The  highest  gods  of  the  Arian  races,"  p.  71.  Compare  Ecole- 
Biastcs,  i.  7  :  "  All  the  rivers  run  iato  the  sea ;  yet  the  sea  is  not  full ;  unto  the  place 
from  whence  the  rivers  come,  thither  they  return  again." 

1"  See  Eoth  in  the  Journ.  Amer.  Or.  Society,  iii.  341;  and  MiiUer's  Anc.  Sansk. 
Lit.  p.  634,  note  2. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE   RIG-VEDA.  63 

secret  tHngs  that  have  been,  or  shall  he  done  (i.  25,  7 :  Veda  yo  vlmm 
padam  antarikshena  paiatam  \  veda  najiah  swmud/riyah  \  9.  Yeda  vatasya 
varttamm  uror  rishoasya  brihafah  \  11.  Yo  vUvani  adbhutd  ehiUtvan 
abhi  paiyati  |  hritani  yd  cha  kartvd).  ITo  creature  can  even  wink 
without  him  (ii.  28,  6 :  JVa  hi  tvad  dre  nimishas  chana  Ue).  He  wit- 
nesses men's  truth  and  falsehood  (vii.  49,  3  :  Tdsaih  rdjd  Varum  ydti 
madhye  satyanrite  amapaiyan  jandndm).  He  instructs  the  rishi  Va- 
sishtha  in  mysteries  (vii.  87,  4 :  Uvdcha  me  Faruno  medhirdya  trih 
sapta  ndmd  aghnya  hibhartti).  But  his  secrets  and  those  of  Mitra  are 
not  to  he  revealed  to  the  foolish  (na  vdm  ninydni  aehite  abhuvan). 

In  the  sixteenth  hymn  of  the  fourth  hook  of  the  Atharva-veda,  his 
power  and  omniscience  are  thus  celebrated  : 

1.  Brihann  eshdm  adhishthatd  antikdd  iva  pakyati  \  yah  stay  an  man- 
yate  eharan  sarvam  devdh  idam  viduh  \  2.  Yas  tuhthati  charati  yak  oka 
vcmehati  yo  nildyam  charati  yah  pratankam  \  dvau  sannishadya  yad  man- 
tray  ete  rdjd  tad  veda  Varunas  triiiyah  \  3.  Vteyam  bhumir  Varunasya 
rdjnah  utdsau  dyaur  brihatl  dure-antd  |  uto  samudrau  Varunasya 
Tcuhshl  utasminn  alpe  udake  nilinah  \  4.  Uta  yo  dydm  atiswrpdt  paras- 
tdd  na  sa  muehyatai  Va/runasya  rdjnah  \  dkiah  spaiah  pracharantidam 
asya  sahasrdhshdh  ati  paiyanti  bhumim  \  5.  Sarvam  tad  rdjd  Varuno  vi 
chashte  yad  antard  rodasl  yat  parastat  \  sankhydtdh  asya  nimisho  jand- 
ndm akshdn  iva  haghni  ni  minoti  tdni  \  6.  Ye  te  pdsdh  Varum  sapta 
sapta  tredhd  tishthanti  vishitdh  rushantah  \  sinmtu  sarve  anritam  vadan- 
twm  yah  satyavddi  ati  tarn  srijantu  \ 

"  1.  The  great  One  who  rules  over  these  worlds  beholds  as  if  he 
were  close  at  hand.  "When  any  man  thinks  he  is  doing  aught  by 
stealth,  the  gods  know  it  aU ;  2.  (and  they  perceive)  every  one  who 
stands,  or  walks,  or  glides  along  secretly,  or  withdraws  into  his  house, 
or  into  any  lurking-place.''"'  "Whatever  two  persons,  sitting  together, 
devise,  Varuna  the  king  knows  it,  (being  present  there  as)  a  third."' 
3.  This  earth,  two,  belongs  to  the  king  Varuna,  and  that  vast  sky 
whose  ends  are  so  remote.  The  two  oceans  [the  aerial  and  terrestrial]'** 
are  Varuna's  stomachs ;  he  resides  in  this  small  pool  of  water.     4.  He 

^^  The  general  sense  is  clear ;  but  the  meaning  of  some  of  the  words  is  uncertain. 

"'  In  R.V.  X.  11,  1,  Agni  is  compared  to  Varuna  in  omniscience;  which  seems  to 
show  that  this  is  an  attribute  in  which  Varuna  was  regarded  as  pre-eminent.  With 
verses  1  and  2,  compare  Psalm  cxxxix.  1-4,  and  St.  Matthew  xrui.  20. 

i2is  Compare  Genesis,  i.  7,  and  Psalm  cxlviii.  4. 


64  THE   INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

who  should  flee  far  beyond  the  sky,  would  not  there  escape  from  Yaruna 
the  king."'  His  messengers,  descending  from  heaven,  traverse  this 
world;  thousand-eyed,  they  look  across  the  whole  earth.  5.  King 
Varuna  perceives  all  that  exists  within  heaven  and  earth  and  all  that 
is  beyond.  The  winkings  of  men's  eyes  are  all  numbered  by  him."' 
He  handles  "'  (all)  these  (things)  as  a  gamester  throws  his  dice.  6.  May 
thy  destructive  nooses,  o  Varuna,  which  are  cast  seven-fold,  and  three- 
fold, ensnare  the  man  who  speaks  lies,  and  pass  by  him  who  speaks 
truth."  "» 

Varuna  is  represented  as  having  unlimited  control  over  the  destinies 
of  mankind.  He  is  said  to  have  a  hundred,  a  thousand  remedies,  and  is 
supplicated  to  shew  his  wide  and  deep  benevolence,  and  drive  away 

"3  Vith  this  verse  compare  verses  7-10  of  the  Psalm  cxxxii. 
"*  Compare  St.  Matthew  x.  30. 

'^'  Eoth,  s.v.  thinks  ni  minoti  here  may  mean  "  observes."  See  also  his  remarks 
in  Jour.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vii.  607,  where  the  sense  of  superintending  is  assigned. 

126  Tlie  hymn  is  concluded  by  two  verses,  containing  imprecations.  After  giving  a 
German  translation  of  the  whole  in  his  Dissertation  on  the  Atharva-veda,  p.  19f. 
(Tubingen,  1856)  Professor  Eoth  remarks  as  follows :  "  There  is  no  hymn  in  the 
whole  Vedic  literature  which  expresses  the  divine  omniscience  in  such  forcible  terms 
as  this ;  and  yet  this  beautiful  description  has  been  degraded  into  an  introduction  to 
an  imprecation.  But  in  this,  as  in  many  other  passages  of  this  Veda,  it  is  natural 
to  conjecture  that  existing  fragments  of  older  hymns  have  been  used  to  deck  out 
magical  formulas.  The  first  five  or  even  six  verses  of  this  hymn  might  be  regarded 
as  a  fragment  of  this  sort."  This  hymn  has  also  been  translated  by  Professor  Miilleri 
see  "  Chips,"  i.  41  f.  I  have  attempted  the  following  paraphrase  in  English  verse : 
"  The  mighty  Lord  on  high,  our  deeds,  as  if  at  hand,  espies  : 

The  gods  know  all  men  do,  though  men  would  fain  their  deeds  disguise. 

"Whoever  stands,  whoever  moves,  or  steals  from  place  to  place. 

Or  hides  him  in  his  secret  cell, — the  gods  his  movements  trace. 

Wherever  two  together  plot,  and  deem  they  are  alone, 

King  Varuna  is  there,  a  third,  and  all  their  schemes  are  known. 

This  earth  is  his,  to  him  belong  those  vast  and  boundless  skies ; 

Both  seas  within  him  rest,  and  yet  in  that  small  pool  he  lies. 

■Whoever  far  beyond  the  sky  should  think  his  way  to  wing, 

He  could  not  there  elude  the  grasp  of  Varuna  the  king. 

His  spies  descending  from  the  skies  glide  all  this  world  around, 

Their  thousand  eyes  all-scanning  sweep  to  earth's  remotest  bound. 

Whate'er  exists  in  heaven  and  earth,  whate'er  beyond  the  skies, 

Before  the  eyes  of  Varuna,  the  king,  unfolded  lies. 

The  ceaseless  winkings  all  he  counts  of  every  mortal's  eyes : 

Be  wields  this  universal  frame,  as  gamester  throws  his  dice. 
'   Those  knotted  nooses  which  thou  fling' st,  o  god,  the  bad  to  snare, — 

All  liars  let  them  overtake,  but  all  the  truthful  spare." 


AS  EEPRESENTED  IN  THE  EIG-VEDA.  65 

evil  and  sin  (i.  24,  9  :  ^ataih  te  rajan  hhuhajah  mhasram  urvi  gahhird 
sumatis  te  astu  \  ladhasva  dure  nirritim  pwraehaih  Icritafh  ehid  enah  pra 
mumugdM  asmat) ;  to  untie,  like  a  rope,  and  remove  sin  (ii.  28,  5 :  vi  maoh 
irafhaya  rasandm  wa  agah ;  v.  85,  7,  8  :  yat  slm  agai  chakrima  iiira- 
thas  tat) ;  he  is  entreated  not  to  steal  away,  but  to  prolong,  life  (i.  24, 
11  :  md  nah  ayuh  pra  moshih  \  i.  25,  12  :  pra  nah  dyuMsM  tdrishat) ; 
and  to  spare  the  suppliant  who  daily  transgresses  his  laws  (i.  25,  1 : 
yaeh  ehid  hi  te  viio  yathd  pra  deva  Varum  vratam  mimmasi  dyavi 
dyavi  \  md  no  ladhdya  hatnave  JiMlanasya  rlradhoK).  In  many  places 
mention  is  made  of  the  bonds,  or  nooses,  with  which  he  seizes  and 
punishes  transgressors  (i.  24,  15;  i.  25,  21;  vi.  74,  4;  x.  85,  24,  and 
A.V.  iv.  16,  6,  as  quoted  above)."'  Mitra  and  Varuna  conjointly  are 
spoken  of  in  one  passage  (vii.  65,  3)  as  being  barriers  against  falsehood, 
furnished  with  many  nooses,  which  the  hostile  mortal  cannot  surmount 
{Ihuripdia  anritasya  setu  duratyetv,  ripave  martyaya) ;  and  in  another 
place  (vii.  84,  2)  Indra  and  Varuna  are  described  as  binding  with 
bonds  not  formed  of  rope  {setribhir  ar<yjubhih  simthah).  On  the  other 
hand  Varuna  is  said  to  be  gracious  even  to  him  who  has  committed 
sin  (vii.  87,  7  :  yo  mrilaydti  chahrushe  ehid  dgah).  He  is  the  wise 
guardian  of  immortality  (viii.  42,  2 :  dhlram  amritasya  gopdm),  and  a 
hope  is  held  out  that  he  and  Tama  reigning  in  blessedness  shall  be 
beheld  in  the  next  world  by  the  righteous  (x.  14,  7  :'^  ulhd  rajdnd 
svadhayd  madantd  Yamam  paiydsi  Varunam  cha  devam). 

1"  Agni,  however,  is  also  prayed  to  loose  his  worshipper's  bonds  R.V.  v.  2,  7 
(evasmad  Agne  ni  mumugdhi  pasan) ;  and  in  vii.  104,  13,  Indra's  fetters  [Indrasya 
prasitih)  are  mentioned.  In  A.V.  xix.  66, 1,  the  Asuras,  masters  of  magical  arts,  who 
go  ahout  with  iron  nets,  iron  bonds,  and  hooks,  are  referred  to  {m/o-jalah  Asurah  ma- 
yino  ayasmm/aih  pasair  ankino  ye  chartmti)* 

"9  In  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society  for  1856,  pp.  237  ff..  Professor 
"Weber  communicates  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  (xi.  6,  1,  1  ff.)  a  legend  regard- 
ing Varuna  and  his  son  Bhrigu.  The  latter  had  esteemed  himself  superior  to  his 
father  in  wisdom,  and  was  desired  by  him  to  visit  the  four  points  of  the  compass, 
where  he  witnesses  certain  visions  of  retribution  in  the  other  world.  Prof.  Weber 
accompanies  this  legend  with  some  very  interesting  remarts.  Among  other  things, 
he  observes  that  the  legend  is  shewn  to  be  ancient  from  the  high  position  which  it. 
assigns  to  Varuna,  who  appears  to  be  conceived  as  the  lord  of  the  universe,  seated  in 
the  midst  of  heaven,  from  which  he  surveys  the  places  of  punishment  situated  all 
round  him.  Varuna,  he  adds,  is  represented  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  xiii.  3,  6, 5, 
as  having  the  form  of  a  fair,  bald,  toothless,  (with  projecting  teeth  ?),  and  yeUow- 
eyed  old  man. 


66  THE   INDIA]!T    GODS    GENERALLY, 

The  attributes  and  functions  ascribed  to  Yaruna  impart  to  his  cha- 
racter a  moral  elevation  and  sanctity  far  surpassing  that  attributed  to 
any  other  Vedic  deity.  This  appears  not  only  from  the  passages  to 
■Vfhich  I  have  already  referred,  but  also  from  the  two  hymns  (vii.  86, 
and  vii.  89)  translated  by  Professor  Miiller  in  his  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  pp. 
540  f.,  and  Chips,  i.  39  ff.;  in  which  the  rishi,  who  is  said  to  be  Va- 
sishtha,  while  palliating  his  sins,  implores  the  god's  forgiveness,  and 
entreats  that  his  life  may  be  spared."*'  I  shall  quote  a  part  of  the  first 
and  the  whole  of  the  second : 

E.Y.  vii.  86,  3.  PrieKhe  tad  eno  Varum  didrikshu  wpo  emi  cMhitmho 
viprichham  \  samdnam  it  me  kavayak  chid  ajmr  ayam  ha  tuhhyam  Varum 
hfinite  I  4.  JEJm  dffah  am  Varum  jyestham  yat  stotaram  jighammai 
sakhaymn  \  pra  tad  me  voeho  dulahha  svadhdvo  ova  tvd  anendh  namasd 
twdh  iydm  \  5.  Ava  drugdhani  pitryd  srija  no  ama  ya  vayam  ehakrima 
tanubhih  |  ava  rdjan  pakutrvpam  na  tayum  srija  vatsam  na  ddmno  Va- 
sishtham  \  6.  iV«  sa  evo  daksho  Varum  dhrutih  sd  sura  manyv/r  vibhidaho 
aehittih  \  asti  jydydn  kanlyasah  wpdre  svapnas  chana  id  anritasya 
prayotd  I 

"  Seeking  to  perceive  that  sin,  o  Varuna,  I  inquire;  I  resort  to  the 
wise  to  ask.  The  sages  all  tell  me  the  same ;  it  is  Varuna  who  is 
angry  with  thee.  4.  What  great  sin  is  it,  Varuna,  for  which  thou 
seekest  to  slay  thy  worshipper  and  friend  ?  Tell  me,  o  unassailable 
and  seK-dependent  god ;  and,  freed  from  sin,  I  shall  speedily  come  to 
thee  with  adoration.  5.  Eelease  us  from  the  sins  of  our  fathers,™ 
and  from  those  which  we  have  committed  in  our  own  persons.  0  king, 
release  Vasishtha  like  a  robber  who  has  fed  upon  cattle ;  release  him 
like  a  calf  from  its  tether.  6.  It  was  not  our  will,  Varuna,  but  some 
seduction,  which  led  us  astray, — wine,''^  anger,  dice,  or  thoughtlessness. 
The  stronger  perverts  the  weaker.     Even  sleep  occasions  sin." 

I'''  On  the  character  of  Varuna  as  a  moral  governor,  see  Both,  Joum.  Germ.  Or. 
Society,  vi.  7 1  ff. ;  a  paper  by  the  same  author  in  the  Joum.  Amer.  Or.  Society, 
iu.  340  ff. ;  and.  his  reply  to  Weber  in  the  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vii.  607. 

130  Compare  A.V.  v.  30,  4,  and  Taittiriya  Brahmaua  iii.  7, 12,  3, 4 :  yad  mm/i  mata 
garihe  sati  enai  chakara  yat  pita  \  Agnir  ma  tasmad  enasali  \  yada  pipesha  mataram 
pitaram putrah pramtidito  dhayan  \  ahimsitau pitarau  maya  tat  \  "  May  Agni  (free) 
me  from  the  sin  vrhioh  my  mother  or  father  committed,  when  I  was  in  the  womb.  If 
I  bruised  my  mother  or  father  while  sucking,  delighted,  when  an  infant,  may  my 
parents  not  have  been  injured  thereby." 

131  'We  see  from  this  that  wine  was  drunk  by  the  Vedio  rishis.    Compare  viii.  2, 


AS   EEPEESMTED    IN    THE    EIG-VEDA.  67 

vii.  89,  1.  Mo  shv,  Varum  mrinmayam  griha^  rajann  aham  gamam,  \ 
mrila  sukshatra  mrilm/a  \  2.  Tad  emi  prasphurann  iva  driUr  na  dhmdto 
adrivah  \  mrila  ityadi  \  3.  Kratvah  samaha  dinata  pratipam  jagama 
iuehe  I  4.  Apam  madh/e  tasthmaihsam  trishnd.  \idaj jmritara/nt  \  5.  Yat 
Mncka  idam  Varum  daivye  jane  alhddrokam  manushgai  eharamasi  \ 
aehitti  tat  tma  dharmd  gugopima  mS,  nas  tasmad  enaso  deva  rtrishah  \ 

"  Let  me  Hot,  o  king  Varuna,  go  to  the  house  of  earth.™  Be  gracious, 
0  mighty  god,  be  gracious.  2.  I  go  along,  o  thumderer,  quivering  like 
an  inflated  skin ;  be  gracious,  etc.  3.  0  bright  and  mighty  god,  I 
have  transgressed  through  want  of  power,  be  gracious,  etc.  4.  Thirst 
has  overwhelmed  thy  worshipper  when  standing  even  in  the  midst  of 
the  waters;  be  gracious,  etc.  5.  Whatever  offence  this  be,  o  Yaruna, 
that  we  mortals  commit  against  the  people  of  the  sky  (the  gods) :  in 
whatever  way  we  have  broken  thy  laws  by  ttoilghtlessness,  be  gracious, 
o  mighty  god,  be  gracious." 

In  another  place  (vii.  88,  4  ff.)  the  same  rishi  alludes  to  his  previous 
friendship  with  Varuna,  and  to  the  favours  the  god  had  formerly  con- 
ferred upon  him,  and  enquires  Why  they  had  now  ceased : 

4.  Vasishtham  ha  Varuno  ndvi  ddhdd  riihim  chakdra  svapak  mdhtibhih  \ 
stotdram  viprah  sudinatve  ahndm  ySd  me  dgdvas  tatanan  gad  ushasah  | 
fi.  Kva  tgdni  nau  saKhga  labhuvuh  sach&vahe  gad  avrikam  pwrS  ehit  j 
Irihantam  mdnam  Varum  svadhdvuh  sahasradvdrarh  jagama  griham  te  | 
6.  Yah  dpir  nitgo  Varum  prtgah  san  tvdm  agdmsi  hrinmat  sakhd  te  | 
md  te  enasvanto  gahshm  hhvjema  ga/nihi  sma  viprah  siuvate  iarutham  | 

"  Varuna  placed  Vasishtha  on  his  boat :  by  his  power  the  wise  and 
mighty  deity  made  him  a  rishi  to  offer  praise  in  an  auspicious  period  of 
his  life,  that  his  days  and  dawns  might  be  prolonged.  5.  "Where "' 
are  those  Mendships  of  us  two  ?  Let  us  seek  the  harmony  which  (we 
enjoyed)  of  old.  I  have  gone,  o  self-sustaining  Varutta,  to  thy  vast 
and  spacious  house  with  a  thousand  gates.  6.  He  who  was  thy  friend, 
intimate,  thine  own,  and  beloved,  has  committed  offences  against  thee. 
Let  not  us  who  are  guilty  reap  the  fruits  of  our  sin.  Do  thou,  a  wise 
god,  grant  protection  to  him  who'  ptaises  thee." 

12,  and  x.  107,  9,  wliere  it  is  said  that  the  literal  man  gains  for  himself,  among  other 
desirable  things,  a  draught  of  wine  {mtahpeyam  swayah). 

13*  Compare  A.V.  v.  30,  14  :  ma  nu  hhumi-griho  bhtmat. 

133  Compare  Psalms  Ixxxix.  49,  and  xxt.  6. 


68  THE  INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 


(4)  Confoint  funeiions  and  attrilutea  of  Mitra  and  Varum. 

The  same  or  nearly  tie  same  functions  and  attributes  as  are  ascribed 
to  Taruna  are  also  attributed  to  him  and  Mitra  conjointly.  They  up- 
hold and  rule  over  the  earth  and  sky,  the  shining  and  the  terrestrial 
regions,  and  place  the  sun  in  the  heayens  (v.  62,  3 ;  v.  69,  1,  4 :  trl 
roehand  Varum  trm  uta  dyun  trini  dharayatho  rajdmsi  \  v.  63,  7 ;  yi. 
67,  5;  vii.  61,  4;  x.  132,  2).  They  are  the  guardians  of  the  world 
{yi&vasya  Ihwanasya  gopa  \  vi&vasya  gopa  I  yuyam  viham  pari  patha  | 
ii.  27,  4;  v,  62,  9;  vii.  51,  2;  viii.  25,  1;  x.  126,  4).  By  their 
ordinance  the  great  sky  shines  {yayor  dhdma  dharmand  roohate  hrihat  \ 
X.  65,  5).  They  discharge  the  rain  (v.  62,  3  :  ava  vrishtim,  srijatam 
j'lraddnu  |  v.  63,  1-3 :  dya&  varshayatho  asurasya  mdywySi).  Their 
godhead  is  beyond  the  ken  of  the  skies,  or  of  rivers  (i.  151,  9  :  na  vdm 
dydvo  ahalhir  nota  sindhamo  na  d&oatvam  panayo  ndnaiw  magham). 
They  (together  with  Aiyaman)  are  awful  deities,  haters  and  dispellers 
of  falsehood  (i.  152,  1;  vii.  66,  13:  ritwodnah  ritajdtdh  ritdvridho 
ghordso  anrita-dvishah).  They  carry  out  their  fixed  purposes,  which 
are  unobstructed  even  by  the  immortal  gods  (v.  63,  7 ;  v.  69,  4 :  na 
vdm,  devdh  amritdh  d  minanti  vratdni  Mitrd-varund  dhnmdni).  They 
make  the  foolish  wise  (vii.  60,  6,  7 :  aehetasam  chick  chitayanti  dak- 
shaih) ;  they  know  heaven  and  earth  (vii.  60,  7  :  ime  divo  animishd 
prithivydi  chihUvdmsah).  They  look  down  from  heaven  observing  men 
as  if  herds  of  cattle  {adM  ya  hrihato  divah  abhi  yutheva  paiyatah  \  See 
also  verses  9  and  16,  and  E.V.  vii.  60,  3).  They  are  described  as 
righteous,  and  as  promoters  of  religious  rites  (or  truth  or  righteous- 
ness) ritdvridhd,  ritdvdnd,  ritajdtd,  ritasprisd,  ritasya  gopau  (i.  2,  8  ; 
i.  23,  5 ;  i.  136,  4 ;  ii.  27,  4;  v.  63,  1  ;  v.  65,  2  ;  v.  67,  4 ;  vii.  64, 
2;  vii.  66,  13;  viii.  23,  30;  viii.  25,  8),  as  the  lords  of  truth  and 
light  {ritasya  jyotishas  pati  \  i.  23,  5).  They,  with  the  other  Adityas, 
avenge  sin  and  falsehood  {ehayamdndh  rindni  \  chetdro  anritasya  hkureh  \ 
ii.  27,  4 ;  vii.  60,  5) :  the  man  who  neglects  their  worship  is  seized 
with  consumption  (i.  122,  9 :  Jano  yo  Mitrd-varundv  abhidhrug  apo  na 
vdm  sunoti  akshnayddhrulc  j  svayam  sa  yalcshmam,  hridaye  ni  dhatta). 
They  are  besought  along  with  Aditi  to  remove  the  trespasses  of  their 
worshippers  (ii.  27,  14 :  Adile  Mitra  Varunota  mrila  yad  vo  vayam 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  69 

ehakrima  hack  chid  agah) ;  and  along  -with  Aryaman  to  give  deliverance 
from  evil  (x.  126,  passim)."* 

(5)  Symn  addressed  to  Mitra  only, 

Mitra  alone  is  celebrated  in  iii.  59.  The  following  are  some  of  the 
verses : 

1.  Mitrojanan  yatayati  hrwano  Mitro  dadhara  prithimm  uta  dyam  | 
Mitrah  hrishtir  animisM  'hhi  chashte  Mitrdya  hmyam  ghritamaj  juhota  \ 
2.  Pra  sa  Mitra  marto  astu  prayasvan  yas  te  Aditya  iihshati  vratena  \ 
na  hanyate  na  jiyate  tvd-uto  nainam  amJio  ainoty  antito  na  durdi  \  4. 
Ay  am  Mitro  namasyah  suievo  raja  sukshatro  aj'anishia  vedhdh  \  tasya 
vayam  Mitrasya  sumatau  syama  \  5.  Mahan  ddityo  namasd  vpasadyo 
ydtayajjano  grinate  mhvah  \  7.  AhM  yo  mahind  divam  Mitro  hahhuva 
saprathah  \  ahhi  iravoihih  prithivim  \  8.  Mii/rdya  poMcJia  yemire  jand^ 
abliishti-iwoase  sa  devdn  visvan  hiihartti  \ 

"  1.  Mitra,  uttering  his  voice,  calls  men  to  activity."'  Mitra  sustains 
the  earth  and  the  sky.  Mitra  with  unwinking  eye  beholds  (all)  crea- 
tures. Offer  to  Mitra  the  oblation  with  butter.  2.  Mitra,  son  of 
Aditi,  may  the  mortal  who  worships  thee  with  sacred  rites,  have  food. 
He  who  is  protected  by  thee  is  neither  slain  nor  conquered.  Calamity 
does  not  reach  him  from  near  or  from  far.  4.  This  Mitra  has  been 
born  adorable,  blessed,  a  king,  strong,  and  wise.  May  we  abide  in  his 
favour.  5.  This  great  Aditya,  who  rouses  men  to  exertion  (see  v.  1), 
who  is  favourable  to  his  worshipper,  is  to  be  approached  with  rever- 
ence. 7.  The  vast  Mitra  who  by  his  greatness  transcends  the  sky,  and 
the  earth  by  his  glory.  8.  The  five  classes  of  men  have  done  homage  to 
Mitra  the  powerful  helper,  who  sustains  all  the  gods." 

(6)  Professor  Roth's  remarks  on  Mitra  and  Varum. 

In  his  paper  on  "  The  highest  gods  of  the  Arian  races  "  (Joum.  of 
the  German  Oriental  Society,  vi.  p.  70  f.),  Professor  Eoth  has  the  fol- 

13*  Like  other  gods,  and  in  particnlar  India,  they  are  represented  as  drinking  the 
soma-juice,  i.  136,  i ;  i.  137,  1  ff. ;  it.  41,  3 ;  iv.  42,  6 ;  v.  64,  7 ;  v.  71,  3 ;  t.  72, 
1-3 ;  vi.  68,  10. 

135  -Witii  this  verse  Roth  (Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  x.  22,  p.  140)  compares  R.V. 
V.  82,  9,  where  it  is  said'  "SaTitri,  -who  causes  aU  creatures  to  hear  his  sound,  and 
impels  them."  Comp.  v.  5  of  the  present  hymn ;  and  vii.  36,  2,  referred  to  by  Roth 
in  the  passage  about  to  be  quoted. 


70  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

lowing  ingenious  and  interesting  observations  on  Mitra  and  Varuna : 
"  Within  the  circle  of  the  Adityas  there  subsists  the  closest  connection 
between  Mitra  and  Varuna,  who  are  invoked  more  frequently  together 
than  Varuna  is  invoked  singly.  We  find  only  one  hymn  in  which 
Mitra  is  invoked  by  himself  (iii.  69).  The  fact  that  this  dual  invo- 
cation is  preserved  in  the  Zend  Avesta,  in  regard  to  Ahura  and  Mithra, 
though  the  position  of  both  has  become  entirely  altered,  and  Mithra  is 
not  even  reckoned  among  the  Amshaspands, — this  fact  proves  how 
close  the  ancient  connection  of  the  two  was,  when  it  has  been  main- 
tained even  after  the  reason  for  it  had  ceased The  essential 

character  of  the  two  gods,  as  distinguished  from  one  another,  is  nowhere 
distinctly  expressed  in  the  hymns,  and  was  in  fact  originally  one  which 
could  not  be  defined  with  intellectual  precision.  But  the  stage  of 
religious  culture  which  lies  before  us  in  the  Rig-veda,  enables  us  to 
distinguish  this  difference  as  one  already  existing,  viz.,  that  Mitra  is 
the  celestial  light  in  its  manifestation  by  day,  while  Varuna,  though 
the  lord  of  light  and  of  aU  time,  yet  rules  especially  over  the  nightly 
heaven.  A  hymn  of  Vasishtha  (vii.  36,  2)  says  :  '  One  of  you  (Varuna) 
is  the  lord,  and  unassailable  guide,  and  he  who  is  called  Mitra,  [i.e.  the 
friend)  calls  men  to  activity'  (ino  vam  anyah  padavtr  adabdho  janam  cha 
Mitro  yatati  Inm&nah).  Here  so  much  at  least  is  declared  (and  the 
same  thing  is  expressed  in  nearly  the  same  words  in  other  places),  that 
the  light  of  day,  which  awakens  life,  and  brings  joy  and  activity  into 
the  world,  is  the  narrower  sphere  of  Mitra's  power ;  though,  however, 
Varuna  is  not  thereby  relegated  to  the  night  alone,  for  he  continues  to 
be  the  lord  and  the  first. 

"  Though  therefore  such  representations  as  are  expressed  in  Indian 
exegesis,  (as  for  instance,  when  Sayana  says  on  E.V.  vii.  87,  1,  that 
Varuna  is  the  setting  sun),  are  far  too  narrow  and  one-sided,  they  stUl 
contain  some  truth  ;  and  we  may  guess  by  what  process  they  are  to  be 
developed.  If  Varuna  is,  as  his  name  shews,  that  one  among  the  lucid 
Adityas  whose  seat  and  sphere  of  authority  is  the  bright  heaven,  in 
whose  bosom  is  embraced  all  that  lives,  and  therefore  also  the  remotest 
boundary,  beyond  which  human  thought  seeks  nothing  further,  then  is 
he  also  one  who  can  scarcely  be  attained  either  by  the  eye  or  by  the 
imagination.  By  day  the  power  of  vision  cannot  discover  this  remotest 
limit,  the  bright  heaven  presents  to  it  no  resting  place.    But  at  night 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    EIG-VEDJL.  71 

this  veil  of  the  world,  in  which  Varuna  is  enthroned,  appears  to 
approach  nearer,  and  becomes  perceptible,  for  the  eye  finds  a  limit. 
Varuna  is  closer  to  men.  Besides,  the  other  divine  forms  which,  in 
the  clouds,  the  atmosphere,  the  rays  of  light,  filled  the  space  between 
the  earth  and  yonder  immeasurable  outermost  sphere,  have  disap- 
peared :  no  other  god  now  stands  between  Varuna  and  the  mortal  who 
gazes  at  him." 

(7)  The  Indian  Mitra  and  the  Zoroastrian  Mithra. 

Whatever  may  be  the  the  success  of  the  attempts  made  to  identify 
any  other  of  the  Indian  and  Iranian  gods  with  one  another,  there  can 
at  least  be  no  doubt,  from  the  correspondence  of  the  two  names,  that 
the  Vedio  Mitra  and  the  Mithra  of  the  Zend  Avesta  were  originally  the 
same  deity.  Accordingly,  the  late  Dr.  F.  "Windischmann,  in  his  Dis- 
sertation on  the  Persian  Mithra,"*  regards  it  as  established  that  this 
god  was  known,  and  common,  to  the  old  Arian  race  before  the  separa^ 
tion  of  its  Iranian  from  its  Indian  branch,  though  the  conception  of 
his  character  was  subsequently  modified  by  Zoroastrian  ideas.  That 
Mithra  was  worshipped  in  Persia  in  and  previous  to  the  age  of  Hero- 
dotus, is  proved,  as  "Windischmann  remarks,  by  the  common  use  of 
such  names  as  Mitradates  and  Mitrobates.  Herodotus  himself  (i.  131) 
speaks  of  Mitra,  not  as  a  god,  but  as  a  goddess  ('Eiri/ie;iiafl^ttO(ri  Se  kh!  tj 

Oiparlri  66eiv,  Trapa,  re  'haavplav  fi.a66vT€s  Kal  'ApaPlay  Ka\4oviTi  Be  'Aatripwi 
T^iv  'Atl>poSiT7iv  VLi\nra,  hpA^ioi  Se'AXiTTO,  Xlepffai  8^  Mrpav.     See  Rawlinson's 

note,  in  loco,  in  his  translation  of  Herodotus).  But  Senophon  (Cyrop. 
viii.  5,  53;  CEc.  iv.  24),  and  Plutarch  (Artax.  4,  and  Alexand.  30) 
describes  the  Persians  as  swearing  by  the  god  Mitra.  And  Plutarch, 
in  his  treatise  on  Isis  and  Osiris,  chap.  xlvi.  tells  us  that  Zoroaster 
conceived  of  Mithra  as  standing  intermediate  between  the  deities 
Oromazes,  the  representative  of  light,  and  Areimanius,  the  representa- 
tive of  darkness  and  ignorance."'  It  is  unnecessary  to  say  anything 
further  here  of  the  Persian  Mithra,  the  eventual  introduction  of  whose 
worship  into  the  "West  is  matter  of  history. 

136  Mithra,  ein  Beitrag  zur  Mythengesohichte  des  Orients,  in  the  Abhandlungeu 
fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes,  Leipzig,  1857.     See  pp.  64  ff. 
15'  Ibid,  p.  S6.    This  passage  is  also  (Quoted  in  the  2nd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  471. 


72  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

(8)  Ta  there  any  historical  connection  between  Varum  and  Ahura  Mazda  ? 

Varuna  also,  in  the  opinion  of  certain  writers,  is  connected,  at  least 
indirectly,  with  the  Ahura  Mazda  of  the  old  Persian  mythology ;  and 
in  support  of  jihis  it  may  be  alleged, — (1)  that  the  name  of  Asura,  the 
divine  being,  is  frequently  applied  to  Varuna,  as  an  epithet ;  (2)  that 
the  class  of  Indian  gods  called  Adityas,  of  whom  Yaruna  is  the  most 
distinguished,  hears  a  certain  analogy  to  the  Amshaspands  of  the  Zend 
mythology,  of  whom  Ahura  Mazda  is  the  highest;  and  (3)  that  a  close 
connection  exists  between  Varuna  and  Mitra,  just  as,  according  to  Pro- 
fessor Eoth  (see  above),  Ahura  and  Mithra  are  frequently  associated  in 
the  Zendavesta,  though  the  position  of  the  two  has  otherwise  become 
altered,  and  Mithra  is  not  even  reckoned  among  the  Amshaspands. 
Other  scholars,  however,  think  that  there  is  not  sufficient  proof  of 
Varuna  and  Ahura  Mazda  being  connected  with  one  another. 

I  shall  state  the  opinion  of  Professor  Roth  in  regard  to  the  connec- 
tion of  Varuna  with  Ahura  Mazda  more  fully  in  the  next  Section, 
where  reference  will  be  made  to  the  same  writer's  views  regarding  the 
relation  of  Indra  to  Varuna. 

(9)  Varuna  connected  with  the  element  of  water  even  in  the  Rig-veda. 

Though  Varuna  is  not  generally  regarded  in  the  Eig-veda  as  the 
god  of  the  ocean,  he  is  yet  in  the  following  passages  connected  with 
the  element  of  water,  both  in  the  atmosphere  and  on  the  earth,  in  such 
a  way  as  may  have  led  to  the  conception  of  his  character  and  functions 
which  is  fully  established  in  the  later  mythology. 

i.  161,  14.  Diva  yanti  Maruto  hhumya  Agnir  ayam  Vato  antarik- 
shena  yati  \  adlhir  vati  Varunah  samudrair  yushmah  ichhantah  Savasah 
napatah  '|  "  Desiring  you,  ye  sons  of  strength,  the  Maruts  proceed 
through  the  sky,  Agni  along  the  earth,  this  Vata  (wind)  through  the 
atmosphere,  and  Varuna  along  the  waters,  the  ocean"  {adbhih  samu- 
draihy 

vii.  49,  2.  Yah  dpo  divydh  uta  va  sravanti  khanitritndh  uta  vd  yah 
svayamjdh  \  samudrdrthdh  yah  iuchayah  pdvalcds  tah  dpo  devir  iha 
mdm  avantu  \  3.  Yasam  rdjd  Varum  yati  madhye  satyanrite  woapah/an 

139  See  Bollensen  in  Or.  and  Ocoid.  2,  467. 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN   THE    EIG-VEDA.  73 

jcmanam  \  madhuichata^  iuehwyah — |  4.  Yam  raja  Varuno  yasu  Soma 
vih>e  devah  ydsu  urjam  madcmti  |  Vaihanaro  yam  Agnih  pravishtas  tah 
apah, — I™  "May  the  waters  ■wh.ich  are  celestial,  and  those  which  flow, 
those  for  which  channels  are  dug,  and  those  which  are  self-produced, 
those  which  are  proceeding  to  the  ocean  and  are  bright  and  purifying, 
preserve  me !  3.  May  those  (waters)  in  the  midst  of  which  king  Varuna 
goes,  beholding  the  truth  and  falsehood  of  men,  which  drop  sweetness 
and  are  bright  and  purifying,  preserve  me !  4.  May  those  waters  in 
which  Yaruna,  Soma,  and  aU  the  gods  are  exhilarated  by  food,  into 
which  Agni  Vai^vanara  has  entered,"  etc.  etc. 

vii.  64,  2.  A  rdjdna  mahah  ritasya  gopd  sindhwpatl  kshatriyd  ydtam 
arvah  \  ildm  no  Mitravwrund  uta  vrishtim  ava  divah  imiatam  jlraddttu  |"" 
"  Mitra  and  Varuna,  ye  two  kings,  protectors  of  the  great  ceremonial, 
strong  lords  of  the  sea  (or  of  rivers)  come  hither ;  send  us  food  and  rain 
from  the  sky,"  etc. 

In  the  second  of  these  texts,  vii.  49,  3,  the  waters,  in  the  midst  of 
which  Varuna  is  said  to  move,  "beholding  the  truth  and  falsehood  of 
men,"  seem  to  be  rather  aerial  than  oceanic,  as  the  former,  from  their 
position  above  the  earth,  would  appear  to  afford  to  the  god  (when  an- 
thropomorphically  regarded)  a  more  convenient  post  of  observation 
than  the  latter.  And  in  vii.  64,  2,  the  epithet  sindhupati,  "lords  of 
the  sea,"  (or  "of  rivers,"  nadydh  'pdlayitarau,  Sayana),  is  applied  not 
only  to  Varuna  but  to  Mitra  also,  who  is  not,  that  I  am  aware  of,  ever 
connected  with  the  sea,  even  in  later  mythology.  If  we  add  to  this, 
that  these  two  gods  are  here  solicited  to  send  food  and  rain  from  the 
sky,  it  may  result  that  they  are  called  sindhupati,  as  supplying  the 
aerial  waters  by  which  terrestrial  streams  are  filled.  On  the  other 
hand  the  2nd  verse  of  the  hymn  just  quoted,  vii.  49,  2,  with  which 
however  Varuna  is  not  directly  connected,  must  be  understood  (as 
Professor  MiiUer  remarks,  Transl.  of  E.  V.  i.  p.  46)  of  terrestrial  waters. 
Though,  as  we  have  seen  above,  Sayana  does  not  generally  style 
Varuna  the  god  of  the  sea,  but,  in  conformity  with  older  conceptions' 
the  deity  who  presides  over  the  night,  he  does,  in  his  explanation  of 

1S9  See  Prof.  Miiller's  remarks  on  the  word  samv^a,  Trans,  of  E.V.  i.  44  ff. 
where  this  verse  is  quoted  and  translated. 

"0  Taitt.  S.  vi.  4,  3,  3,  says :  Mitravmnnm  vai  apam  netSrau  |  "  Mitra  and 
Varuna  are  the  leaders  of  the  waters."  , 


74  THE    INDIAN   GODS    GENEEALLT. 

E.V.  i.  161,  14,  and  viii.  58,  12,  call  him  \he  jalahhimanl  d&oah,  "the 
deity  presiding  over  the  waters." 

In  viii.  41,  8,  Varuna  appears  to  be  called  a  hidden  ocean  {samudro 
aplcJvyah). 

viii.  58,  12.  Sudevo  an  Varum  yasya  te  sapta  sindhawah  \  anuhJia- 
ranti  Itahadam  surmyam  gushvrdm  iva  |  "Thou  art  a  glorious  god, 
Varuna,  into  whose  jaws  the  seven  rivers  flow,  as  into   a  surging 


Varuna  is  also  connected  with  the  sea  or  with  the  rivers,  which 
he  is  said  to  inhabit,  as  soma  (the  plant)  does  the  woods,  in  ix.  90,  2 
{vand  vasano  Vwruno  na  sindhun) ;  and  in  Vaj.  Sanh.  x.  7,  it  is  said 
that  "  Varuna,  the  child  of  the  waters,  made  his  abode  within  the 
most  motherly  waters  as  in  his  home  "  {Fastydsu  chahre  Varunah  sad- 
hastham  apdm  Hiur  matfUamdsu  antah).  See  also  the  third  verse  of 
the  sixteenth  hymn  of  the  A.  V.  quoted  above. 

In  the  following  texts  of  the  Atharva-veda,  Varuna  is  connected 
with  the  waters : 

A.V.  iii.  3,  3.  Adbhyas  tvd  raja  Varuno  hoayatu  somas  tvd  hoayatu 
parvatelhyah  \  "  May  king  Varuna  call  thee  from  the  waters,  and  Soma 
from  the  mountains." 

iv.  15,  12.  Apo  nisldnohann  aswah  pitd  nah  ivasantu  gargardh  apdih 
Varum  \  "Our  divine  father  shedding  the  waters — may  the  streams 
of  water  breathe,  o  Varuna." 

V.  24,  4.  Varuno  'pdtn  adhipatih  \  5.  Mitrdvarumu  vrishtydh  adhi- 
patl  I  "Varuna  the  lord  of  the  waters."  5.  "Mitra  and  Varuna  the 
lords  of  rain." 

vii.  83.  1.  Apsu  te  rdjcm  Varuna  griho  hiranyayo  mitah  \  "Thy 
golden  house,  o  Varuna,  is  in  the  waters."'" 

1*1  See  Eoth's  Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  pp.  70  f. 

i«  The  Taitt.  S.  v.  S,  4,  1,  says :  apo  Va/rmasya  patnayah  asan  \  ta  Agnir 
abhyadhyayat  \  tah  samabhavat  |  tasya  retah  parapatat  |  tad  iyam  ablwvat  \  yad 
d/oitlyam  parapatat  tad  asav  abhavat  |  iyam  vai  virad  asau  svarat  \  "The  waters  are 
the  -wives  of  Varuna.  Agni  regarded  them  with  desire.  He  consorted  with  them.  His 
seed  fell.  It  hecame  this  (earth).  That  which  fell  the  second  time  became  that 
(sky).  This  (earth)  is  viraj,  that  (sky)  is  svaraj."  The  Varaha  Purana,  sect.  121 
(Auirecht,  Catal.  p.  695)  speaks  of  Varuna  being  xmiversally  known  as  the  guardian 
of  the  ocean  (^aarve  lokah  hi  jananti  Varunah  pati  sayaram).  The  Skanda  Purana, 
sect.  12  (Aufrecht,  Cat.  p.  69a),  relates  that  Varuna  was  formerly  the  son  of  Kardama, 
and  bore  the ,  name  of  S'uchishmat ;  and  that  he  is  said  to  have  obtained  the 
sovereignty  of  the  sea  by  worshipping  S'iva. 


AS    EBPKESENTED    IN    THE    EIG-VEDA.  76 

(10)  Uxplanations  hy  Professors  Roth  and  Westergaard  of  the  process  hy 
which  Varum  came  to  he  regarded  as  the  regent  of  the  sea. 

Professor  Both  gives  (in  a  paper  read  in  October,  1851,  and  published 
in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vi.  73)  the  foUowing 
statement  of  the  process  by  -which  he  conceives  that  Yaruna  came  in 
later  times  to  be  regarded  as  the  god  of  the  sea. 

"  The  hymns  of  the  Veda  give  abeady  indications  of  this  develop- 
ment, since  Yarutja  is  in  one  place  brought  into  the  same  connection 
with  the  waves  of  the  sea,  as  Storm  and  Wind  are  with  the  atmosphere 
and  the  heaven,  and  as  Agni  is  with  the  earth  (i.  161,  14,  translated 
above),  and  it  is  elsewhere  said  of  him  that  he  sinks  into  the  sea  (vii. 
87,  6),  while  in  another  passage  the  rivers  are  described  as  streaming 
towards  him  (viii.  58,  12).  Whep,  on  the  one  hand,  the  conception  of 
Yaruna  as  the  all-embracing  heaven  had  been  established,  and,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  observation  of  the  rivers  flowing  towards  the  ends  of 
the  earth  and  to  the  sea  had  led  to  the  conjecture  that  there  existed 
an'ocean  enclosing  the  earth  in  its  bosom,  then  the  way  was  thoroughly 
prepared  for  connecting  Yaruna  with  the  ocean.  Another  side  of  the 
affinity  between  the  celestial  and  oceanic  Yaruna  may  be  expressed  in 
the  words  of  Alexander  von  Humboldt,  which  perfectly  coincide  with 
the  ancient  Indian  view  :  '  The  two  envelopments  of  the  solid  surface 
of  our  planet,  viz.,  the  aqueous  and  the  atmospheric,  offer  many 
analogies  to  each  other,  in  their  mobility,  in  the  phenomena  of  their 
temperature,  and  in  the  fact  that  their  parts  admit  of  being  displaced  : 
the  depth  both  of  the  ocean  and  of  the  atmosphere  is  unknown  to  us.' " 

On  the  same  subject  Professor  Westergaard  remarks  (in  a  paper 
originally  published  in  1852,  and  translated  by  Professor  Spiegel  from 
the  Danish,  and  published  in  Weber's  Indische  Studien,  vol.  iii.) : 
"  The  Zend  word  Yarena  corresponds  also  etymologically,  on  the  one 
hand,  to  the  Grreek  ovpavo^,  and,  on  the  other,  to  the  Indian  Yaruna, 
a  name  which  in  the  Yedas  is  assigned  to  the  god  who  reigns  in  the 
furthest  regions  of  the  heaven,  wherfe  air  and  sea  are,  as  it  were, 
blended ;  on  which  account  he  has,  in  the  later  Indian  mythology, 
become  god  of  the  sea,  whilst  in  the  Yedas  he  appears  first  as  the 
mystic  lord  of  the  evening  and  the  night."  And  he  adds:  "Possibly 
the  Iranian  Yarena,  in  opposition  to  Yima's  home  on  the  remotest 


76  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

mountains  of  the  east,  denotes,  originally,  the  distant  western  region 
.  of  the  heaven  and  the  air,  where,  every  evening,  the  sun  and  light 
conceal  themselves,  and  so  much  the  rather  as  the  epithet  Varenya, 
derived  from  Yarena,  is  in  the  Zenda-vesta  applied  only  to  the  evil 
spirits  of  darkness"  (p.  416  f.). 

(11)  Correspondence  of  Varum  with  the  Greek  Ovpavo<;. 

"We  have  already  seen  that  Varuna  corresponds  in  name  to  the 
Ovpav6<;  of  the  Greeks.  "TJranos,"  as  Professor  Miiller  observes,'*' 
"  in  the  language  of  Hesiod,  is  used  as  a  name  for  the  sky ;  he  is  made 
or  bom  that  he  should  '  be  a  firm  place  for  the  blessed  gods.' '"  It  is 
said  twice  that  TJranos  covers  everything  (v.  127),  and  that  when  he 
brings  the  night,  he  is  stretched  out  everywhere,  embracing  the  earth."" 
This  sounds  almost  as  if  the  Greek  mythe  had  stiU  preserved  a  recol- 
lection of  the  etymological  power  of  Uranos.  For  TJranos  is  in  the 
Sanskrit  Varuna,  and  is  derived  from  a  root,  Var,  to  cover ;  Varuna 
being  in  the  Veda  also  a  name  of  the  firmament,  but  especially  con- 
nected with  the  night,  and  opposed  to  Mitra,  the  day." 

The  parallel  between  the  Greek  TJranos  and  the  Indian  Varuna  does 
not,  as  we  have  already  seen,  hold  in  all  points.  There  is  not  in  the 
Vedio  mythology  any  special  relation  between  Varuna  and  Prithivi,  the 
Earth,  as  husband  and  wife,  as  there  is  between  Uranos  and  Gaia  in  the 
theogony  of  Hesiod ;  nor  is  Varuna  represented  in  the  Veda,  as  TJranos 
is  by  the  Greek  poet,  as  the  progenitor  of  Dyaus  (Zeus),  except  in  the 
general  way  in  which  he  is  said  to  have  formed  and  to  preserve  heaven 
and  earth. 

1"  Oxford  Essays  for  1856,  p.  41 ;  Chips,  ii.  65. 
"»  Hesiod  Theog.  126  :— 

Fata  Se  rot  irpSarov  /Aev  iyelvaro  laov  savr^ 

Ovpavhv  affre/joeVfl*,  It/a  fiiv  TnpX  irdi/ra  KaXivToi, 

^0(^p*  ettj  fitticiipcaffi  Beoiis  eSos  &ir<j>a\es  &ei, 

,      Compare  Ait.  Br.  iv.  27,  quoted  above. 
»6  Ibid,  V.  176  :— 

"^HAfle  5^  NiSkt*  iTrdyav  [Ji4yas  Ovpav6s,  &,fnp\  5e  Taiy 

'Ifielpay  ^iA(!t»jtos  ^irc(rx«TO  Koi  p  iraviffSi) 

ndvTi). 


AS  EEPRESENTED  IN  THE  EIG-VEDA.  76a 

(12)  Varum,  as  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  metrical  sketch. 

Lo,  reared  of  old  by  hands  divine, 

High  towers  in  heaven  a  palace  fair  ; 

Its  roof  a  thousand  columns  hear ; 
A  thousand  portals  round  it  shine. 

"Within,  enthroned  in  godlike  state. 

Sits  Yaruna  in  golden  sheen  ; 

To  work  his  will,  with  reverent  mien, 
His  angel  hosts  around  him  wait. 

When  I  beheld  this  vision  bright, 

I  deemed  the  god  was  clad  in  flame, — 
Such  radiance  from  his  presence  came. 

And  overpowered  my  aching  sight. 

Each  mom,  when  TJshas  starts  from  sleep, 

He  mounts  his  car,  which  gleams  with  gold : 
AH  worlds  before  him  lie  unrolled. 

As  o'er  the  sky  his  coursers  sweep.' 

He,  righteous  lord,  the  sceptre  wields. 

Supreme,  of  universal  sway. 

His  law  both  men  and  gods  obey ; 
To  his  degree  the  haughtiest  yields. 

He  spread  the  earth  and  watery  waste  ; 

He  reared  the  sky ;  he  bade  the  sun 

His  shining  circuit  daily  run  ; 
In  him  the  worlds  are  all  embraced. 

By  his  decree  the  radiant  moon 

Moves  through  the  nightly  sky  serene, 
And  planets  sparkle  round  their  queen ; — * 

But  whither  have  they  fled  at  noon  ? 

*  In  Indian  mythology  the  moon  is  a  god,  not  a  goddess ;  but  I  have  in  this  line 
adhered  to  customary  EngUsh  poetical  phraseology.  • 


76*  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GKNERALLY, 

The  rivers  flow  at  his  behest, 

And  yet — admire  his  wondrous  skill — 
The  ocean-bed  they  cannot  fill, 

Although  their  currents  never  rest. 

The  path  of  ships  across  the  sea, 

The  soaring  eagle's  flight,  he  knows, f 
The  course  of  every  wind  that  blows, 

And  all  that  was  or  is  to  be. 

Descending,  ceaseless,  from  the  skies. 
His  angels  glide  this  world  around  ; 
As  far  as  earth's  remotest  bound. 

All-scanning,  range  their  thousand  eyes. 

This  mighty  lord  who  rules  on  high. 

Though  closely  veiled  from  mortal  gaze, 
All  men's  most  secret  acts  surveys  ; 

He,  ever  far,  is  ever  nigh. 

Two  think  they  are  not  overheard 
Who  sit  and  plot,  as  if  alone  ; 
Their  fancied  secrets  all  are  known, 

"Unseen,  the  god  is  there,  a  third. 

Whoe'er  should  think  hia  way  to  wing, 
And  lurk,  unknown,  beyond  the  sky, 
Yet  could  not  there  elude  the  eye 

And  grasp  of  Varuna,  the  King. 

For  aU  within  the  vast  expanse 

Of  air  that  heaven  and  earth  divides, 
Whate'er  above  the  heaven  abides, 

Lies  open  to  his  piercing  glance. 


t  Compare  Proverbs,  xxx.  18 :  "  There  be  three  things  which  are  too  wonderful 
ior  me ;  yea,  four  which  I  know  not :  19.  The  way  of  an  eagle  in  the  air  ;  the  way 
of  a  serpent  upon  a  rock ;  the  way  of  a  ship  in  the  midst  of  the  sea ;  and  the  way  of 
a  man  with  a  maid." 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  76e 

The  ceaseless  winkings  all  he  sees, 

And  counts,  of  every  mortal's  eyes  : 

In  vain  to  wink  a  creature  tries, 
Unless  the  god  the  power  decrees. 

To  thoughtful  men  who  truth  discern, 

And  deeply  things  divine  explore, 

The  god  reveals  his  hidden  lore  ; 
But  fools  his  secrets  may  not  learn. 

,  He  marks  the  good  and  ill  within 

The  hearts  of  men — the  false  and  true 
Discerns  with  never-erring  view  : 
He  hates  deceit,  chastises  sin. 

His  viewless  bonds,  than  cords  and  gyves 

More  hard  to  hurst,  the  wicked  hind ; 

In  vain,  within  their  folds  confined. 
To  cast  them  off  the  sinner  strives. 


And  yet  the  god  will  not  refuse 
His  grace  to  one  who  inly  moans, 
"When  fetter-bound,  his  errors  owns, 

And  for  forgiveness  meekly  sues. 

But  where  is,  lord,  thy  friendship  now  ? 

Thine  ancient  kindness,  o,  restore  ; 

May  we,  so  dear  to  thee  of  yore, 
No  longer  dread  thy  frowning  brow. 

Thine  ire  we  did  not  madly  brave, 

Nor  break  thy  laws  in  wanton  mood  ; 
We  fell,  by  wrath,  dice,  wine,  subdued : 

Forgive  us,  gracious  lord,  and  save. 


76(?  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY. 

Absolve  us  from  the  guilt,  we  pray, 
Of  all  the  sins  our  fathers  wrought,  J 
And  sins  which  we  commit  by  thought,  § 

And  speech,  and  act,  from  day  to  day. 

From  dire  disease  preserve  us  frde. 
Nor  doom  us  to  the  house  of  clay 
Before  our  shrivelling  frames  decay  : 

A  good  old  age  yet  let  us  see. 

In  vain  shaU  hostile  shafts  assail 

The  man  thy  shielding  arm  defends ; 
Secure,  no  wrong  he  apprehends, 

Safe,  as  if  cased  va.  iron  maU. 

As  mother  birds  their  pinions  spread 

To  guard  from  harm  their  cowering  brood, 
Do  thou,  0  lord,  most  great  and  good, 

Preserve  from  aH  the  ills  we  dread. 

X  See  Exodus,  xx.  6,  Deuteronomy,  t.  9,  and  Ezekiel,  xviii.  1 S. 
§  Rig-Teda,  x.  37,  12, 


AS  EEPEESENTED  IN  THE  EIG-VEDA.  77 


SECTION  V. 

INDEA.»6 

According  to  the  Greek  geographer  Strabo,  the  Indians,  as  known  to 
him  by  the  report  of  other  writers,  "  worshipped  Jupiter  Pluvius,  the 
river  Ganges,  and  the  gods  of  country."''  This  Jupiter  Pluvius  was, 
no  doubt,  Indra.  Although  at  the  period  to  which  Strabo's  information 
refers,  this  god,  in  all  probabilty,  no  longer  occupied  the  same  promi- 
nent position  as  of  old ;  he  was,  as  Professor  Eoth  remarks,"'  the 
favourite  national  deity  of  the  Aryan  Indians  in  the  Vedic  age.  More 
hymns  are  dedicated  to  his  honour  than  to  the  praise  of  any  other 
divinity. 

(1)  Sis  origin  and  parents  ;  his  wife. 

Although,  however,  his  greatness  is  celebrated  in  the  most  mag- 
nificent language,  he  is  not  regarded  as  an  uncreated  being.  As  I  have 
already  noticed,  he  is  distinctly  spoken  of  in  various  passages  as  being 
born,  and  as  having  a  father  and  a  mother. 

Thus  it  is  said  of  him  : 

iii.  48,  2.  Yaj  jayathas  tad  ahar  asya  hdme  amioh  piyusham  apilo 
girishtham  \  tarn  te  mdtd  pari  yoshd  janitri  mahah  pitur  dame  dsinchad 
agre  \  3.  Vpasthdya  mdtaram  annam  ait  fa  tigmam  apakyad  abhi  somam 
udhah  I 

"  On  the  day  that  thou  wast  born,  thou  didst,  from  love  of  it,  drink 
the  mountain-grown  juice  of  the  soma-plant.     Of  old,  the  youthful 

'*'  Strabo,  iv.  1,  69,  p.  718,  quoted  by  Lassen,  Indiscbe  Alterthumstunde,  ii.  698  : 
Aiyerat  Se  Kal  Tavra  irap^  ruv  ffvyyptt^4oiVj  '6ti  ai^ovrai  fihv  rhv  A/i^piov  Aia  ol 
'IvSol,  Kal  rhv  Tdyyrjy  irorafihVf  Kcd  Tohs  iyxtopiovs  Saifioi/as. 

^^'  In  my  account  of  Varuna  there  is  little  of  importance  that  had  not  been  pre- 
viously said  by  Professor  Both;  but  in  this  description  of  Indra  there  is  a  larger 
collection  of  particulars  than  I  have  noticed  to  have  been  brought  together  elsewhere. 

MS  Jn  iiig  Lexicon,  s.v.  Indra. 


78  THE   INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

mother  who  bore  thee,  satiated  thee  with  it  in  the  house  of  thy  mighty- 
father.  3.  Approaching  his  mother,  he  desired  sustenance  ;  he  beheld 
the  sharp-flavoured  soma  on  her  breast." 

Again  in  iv.  17,  4.  Suviras  tejanitd  manyata  Dycm/r  Indrasya  kartia 
svapastamo  'hhut  \  yah  imjajana  mmryafh  swoajram  ana/pachyutam  sadaso 
na  bhuma  |  ....  17.  Kiyat  svid  Indro  adhi  eti  matuh  My  at  pitur 
janitw  yo  jajdna  \  "Thy  father  was,  as  the  Sky  thought,  a  most  stal- 
wart being ;  the  maker  of  Indra,  he  who  produced  the  celestial 
thunderer,  immovable  as  the  earth, — ^he  was  a  most  skilful  workman. 
17.  How  much  does  Indra  regard  his  mother,  how  much  the  father 
who  begat  him  ?  "  "' 

iv.  18,  1.  Ay  am  pmtthah  anuvittah  pv/rano  yato  devdh  ydajayanta 
visve  I  «tei  chid  a  janishishta  praoriddho  ma  mataram  amuya  pattave 
iffl$  I  5.  Avadyam  iva  manyamdnd  guha  'kar  Indram  mdtd  viryena 
nyrishtam,  \  atha  ud  asthdt  svayam  atkam  vasdnah  a  rodasi  aprinqf 
jayamdnah  \  10.  Grishtih  sasuva  sthaviram  tmdgam  wnadhruhyaih 
vrishabham  tumram  Indram  |  arllham  vatsam  charathdya  maid  svayaM 
gdtum  tarwe  ichhamdnam  \  11.  Uta  mdtd  mahisham  anvanenad  ami  tvd 
j'aJtati  putra  devdh  |  athabraoid  vrittram  Indro  hanishyan  sakhe  Vishno 
vita/rdm  vi  kramama  \  12.  Kas  te  mdta/ram  vidhamdm  aohahrat  iayum  kai 
tvdm  ajiyhdmsat  charantam  \  kas  te  deoo  adhi  mdrdlke  dsid  yat  pita/ram 
prdkshindh  pddagrihya  \ 

"  This  has  been  traversed  as  the  ancient  path,  through  which  all  the 
gods  were  bom ;  through  this  let  the  grown  (embryo)  be  produced ; 
let  him  not  vainly  cause  his  mother  to  perish.""  5.  Eegarding  it  (his 
birth)  as  a  fault,  the  mother  concealed  Indra,  who  was  full  of  vigour. 
Then  he  himself  arose,  clothed  with  a  robe,  and  flUed  both  worlds  as 
soon  as  he  was  bom.  10.  His  mother,  (Hke)  a  cow,  bore  Indra,  an  un- 
lioked  calf,  strong,  robust,  unassailable,  vigorous,  and  lusty,  in  order 

149  Professor  Miiller,  Lectures  ii.  430,  translates  the  first  of  these  verses  thus : 
Dyij  thy  parent,  was  reputed  strong ;  the  maker  of  Indra  was  mighty  in  his  works ; 
he  (who)  hegat  the  heavenly  Indra,  armed  with  the  thunderholt,  who  is  immovable  as 
the  earth,  from  his  seat :"  and  the  12th  verse  as  follows:  "Indra  'somewhat  excels 
his  mother  and  the  father  who  begat  him.' "  Of  the  Maruts  also  it  is  said  v.  60,  5, 
that  Eudra,  their  father,  was  young  and  an  excellent  workman  (ywa  pita  svapah 
Biuh-ah  esham.  The  next  hymn  of  the  same  Mandala,  iv.  18,  makes  repeated  reference 
to  Indra's  birth  and  parents. 

180  For  the  Commentator's  explanation  of  this  obscure  hymn  see  Professor  "Wilson's 
Translation,  note  1. 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN   THE    EIG-VEDA.  79 

that  he  might  range  abroad,  and  desiring  full  scope  for  himself.  11. 
And  his  mother  affectionately  regarded  her  mighty  son,  saying,  '  those 
gods  forsake  thee,  my  son.'  Then  said  Indra,  preparing  to  slay  Vrittra, 
'  Friend  Vishnu,  stride  boldly  forward.'  12.  "Who  made  thy  mother  a 
widow  ?  Who  sought  to  slay  thee  lying  or  moving  ?  What  god  stood 
by  thee  in  the  fray  when  thou  didst  crush  thy  father,  seizing  him  by 
the  foot?" 

vii.  20,  5.  Vrishd  j'aj'dna  vrisTianam.  randy  a  tarn  u  chin  nari  na/ryarh, 
sasnva  I  "A  vigorous  (god)  begot  him,  a  vigorous  (son)  for  the  battle  : 
a  heroic  female  (nari)  brought  him  forth,  a  heroic  (son),"  etc. 
Again,  vii.  98,  3.  Jqj'nana  h  somam  sahase  papatha  pra  te  mdtd 
mahimanam  v/edeha  \  "  When  bom,  thou  didst  drink  the  soma- 
juice  to  (gain)  strength  :  thy  mother  declared  thy  greatness." 
X.  73,  1.  Janishthdh  ugrah  sahase  titrdya  mandrah  ojishtho  dahuld- 
hhimdnah  \  aoa/rdhann  Indram  Marutas  chid  attra  mdtd  yad  mram 
dadhanad  dhanishthd  \  "Thou  wast  born  fierce  to  exercise  impetuous 
strength ;  exulting,  fiery,  full  of  confidence.  The  Maruts  here  aug- 
mented Indra  when  his  opulent  mother  brought  forth  the  hero." 
X.  120,  1.  Tad  id  asa  Ihmmeshu  jyeshtham  yato  j<yne  ugras  tvesha- 
nrimnah  \  "  That  was  the  highest  (being)  in  the  world  from  which  this 
fierce  and  impetuous  (god)  was  born,''  etc.  x.  134,  1.  Uhhe  yad  Indra 
rodasi  apaprdtha  ushdh  wa  j  mahdnfam  tva  mahmdm  safhrdjam  oharsha- 
nind'fh  devi  janitrl  aj'ijanad  Ihadrd  janitri  ajljmhat  |  "  When  thou, 
Indra,  didst  fill  the  two  worlds  like  the  Dawn,  a  divine  mother 
bore  thee,  a  gracious  mother  bore  thee,  the  great  monarch  of  the 
great  people"  (the  gods?).  In  x.  101,  12,  as  we  have  already  seen, 
he  is  called  the  son  of  MshtigrL  This,  word,  as  I  have  already 
noticed,  p.  13,  note  9,  is  treated  by  the  commentator  as  a  synonym  of 
Aditi  ;  but  though  Indra  is  always  regarded  as  an  Aditya  in  the  later 
mythology,,  and  is  even  addressed  in  that  character,  along  with  Varuna, 
in  vii.  85,  4  {yah  ddiiyd  kmasd  vdm  namasvdn),  he  is  not  commonly 
described  as  such  in  other  parts  of  the  Eig-veda.'" 

In  the  A.V.  iii.  10,  12,  we  read :  Ekdshtahd  tapasd  tapyamdnd  jajdna 
garlham  mahimanam  Indram  \  tena  devdh  ashahanta  iatrun  hantd  dasyu- 
ndm  abhavat  S'achipatih  \  "  Ekashtaka,  practising  austere-fervour,  bore 

151  In  iv.  26,  1,  he  appears  to  be  identified  with  Manu  and  Surya,  and  in  viii,  82, 
1,  4,  and  X.  89;  2,  with  Surya.    In  ii.  30,  1,  he  receives  the  epithet  of  Smiitri. 


80  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

as  a  child  the  glorious  Tndra.  By  him  the  gods  conquered  their 
enemies ;  the  lord  of  S'achi  (or  of  might)  became  the  slayer  of  the 
Dasyus." 

In  the  next  verse  Ekashtaka  is  called  the  mother  of  Soma,  as  well  as 
of  Indra,  and  the  daughter  of  Prajapati.  In  A.Y.  vi.  38,  the  mother  of 
Indra  is  invoked,  but  her  name  is  not  given.  According  to  the  M.  Bh. 
Adip.  3136,  Indra  is  one  of  the  sons  of  Ea^yapa  and  Dakshayani,  i.e. 
the  daughter  of  Daksha,  or  Aditi.  See  also  viii.  45,  4,  6 ;  viii.  66,  1, 
2,  which  will  be  quoted  further  on.  In  viii.  58,  4,  he  is  called  the 
son  of  truth  {sunum  satyasya). 

In  another  place  (iii.  49,  1)  he  is  said  to  have  been  produced  by  th& 
gods,  as  a  destroyer  of  enemies  {^ghanam  vritranam  janayanta  devdh  \ 
See  also  ii.  13,  5,  and  iii.  51,  8). 

In  the  Purusha  Sukta  (E.V.  x.  90,  13)  Indra  is  said  to  have  sprung, 
along  with  Agni,  from  the  mouth  of  Purusha  {muJchad  Indrai  eha 
Agnii  cha) ;  and  he  is  one  of  several  gods  said,  in  ix.  96,  5  {Somah  .  .  . 
jrniita  Indrasya),  to  have  been  generated  by  Soma.  In  one  of  the 
latest  hymns  (x.  167,  1)  he  is  declared  to  have  conquered  heaven  by 
austerity  {tvam  tapah parita^ya  cy'ayah  svah).'^^' 

1'^  In  one' of  the  short  stories  about  the  gods,  of  which  it  and  the  other  Brahmanas 
are  fall,  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  1,  6,  14,  says  of  Indra :  Tah  vai  etah  Trajapater  adhi 
devatah  asrijyanta  Agnir  Indrah  Somah  Jparameshthz  prajapatyah  \  15.  Tah  saha- 
trayusho  jajnire  \  tah  yathd  nadyai  parmn,  pmrapaiyed  mam  svasya  ayushah  param- 
parackakhyuh  |  14.  "These  gods  were  created  from  Prajapati,  -riz.  Agni,  Indra, 
Soma,  and  Farameshthin  Prajapatya.  15.  These  were  horn  with  a  life  of  a  thousand 
(years).  Just  as  a  man  can  look  across  to  the  other  bank  of  a  river,  they  looked 
across  to  the  end  of  their  life."  Again  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  2,  3,  3,  says  of  Indra: 
JPraJdpatir  devdswdn  asrijata  [  sa  Indra/m  api  na  asrijata  |  tarn  devdh  ahrwionn 
" Indram  no  jrnim/a"  iti  \  so  'hrmiid  "yathd  'ham  yushmams  tapasd  'srikshi 
evam  Indraih  janafodhvam "  iti  \  te  tapo  'tapyanta  \  te  atmann  Indram  apa- 
s'ycm  I  tarn  ahrwoan  "jdyama "  iti  |  so  'hrmnt  "  Mm  bhdgadheyam  abhi  janish- 
ye**  iti  [  "  ritun  samvatsardn  praj'dh  pasun  imdn  lohdn  '*  ity  abruva-n  |  ityddi  \ 
"Prajapati  created  gods  and  Asuras,  hut  he  did  not  also  create  Indra.  The 
gods  said  to  him :  '  Create  Indra  for  us.'  He  replied :  '  As  I  have  created 
you  through  austere-fervour  [tapas),  so  do  you  generate  Indra.'  They  practised, 
austere-fervour.  They  saw  Indra  within  themselves.  They  said  to  him,  'Be 
bom.'  He  said,  '  To  what  lot  shall  I  be  born  ? '  They  said  to  him,  '  To  the 
seasons,  the  years,  the  creatures,  the  beasts,  these  worlds,''  etc.  The  same  Brahmana, 
ii.  2,  10,  1,  tells  us  that  Prajapati  created  Indra  last  of  the  gods,  and  sent  him  to  be 
the  lord  of  the  other  deities.  The  gods  said  to  him,  '  "Who  art  thou  ? '  '  "We  are 
superior  to  thee.'  He  reported  their  reply  to  Prajapati,  and  asked  for  the  splendour 
which  resided  in  Prajapati,  in  order  that  he  might  become  the  chief  of  the  gods,  etc." 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN    THE   EIG-VEDA,  81 

In  vi.  69;  2,  Indra  and  Agni,  as  we  have  already  seen,  p.  14,  are  said 
to  be  twin  brothers,  having  the  same  father,  and  whose  mothers  are,  the 
one  here,  the  other  there.  (The  sense  of  this  is  not  very  evident,  unless 
it  sinbply  mean  that  the  mothers  are  different.)  In  x.  65, 1,  his  brother's 
children  are  mentioned  («<?  astahhnah  Prithmim,  Dyam  abhihe  hhratuh 
putrdn  maghwoan  titvishanah).  Heaven  and  Earth  s6em  to  be  intended. 
If  so,  who  is  their  father  ?  In  vi.  66,  6,  Pushan  is  called  Indra's 
brother  {hhrdta  Indrasya). 

Even  as  an  infant  Indra  is  said  to  have  manifested  his  warlike  ten- 
dencies. "  As  soon  as  he  was  bom,  the  slayer  of  Vrittra  (Indra)  grasped 
his  arrow,  and  asked  bis  mother,  '  Who  are  they  that  are  renowned  as 
fierce  warriors?'  "  (viii.  46,  4,  o  hwndam  vrittraM  dade  jdtah priohhad 
vi  mataram  \  he  ugrah  he  ha  srinvire  \  viii.  66,  1.  Jajnano  hi  iaiakratwr 
vi  pfiehhad  iti  mataram  |  he  Ugrah  ke  ha  srinvire  |).  His  worshipper 
says  of  him :  1,  102,  8.  Asatrur  Indra  jammhS,  mndd  asi  \  "  Thou, 
Indra,  art  of  old  by  nature  without  an  enemy."  Compare  i.  176,  1. 
8'atrum  anti  na  vindasi  \  x.  133;  2.  Akatrwr  Indra  jiynishey. 

In  i.  82,  5,  6,  Indra's  wife  is  alluded  to.  5.  Tenajayam  upa  priyam 
manddnd  yahi  \  6.  Sam  u  patnya  amadah  \  "Go  exhilarated  to  thy 
dear  wife."     "  Be  exhilarated  with  thy  wife." 

In  another  place  iii.  53,  4  ff.,-  the  poet  describes  the  perplexity  he 
fanciesi  Indra  must  feel  in  choosing  between  the  attractions  of  home 
and  those  his  worshippers  have  to  offer  in  the  way  of  soma-libations. 
4.  Jaya  id  astam  magha/van  sa  id  u  yonis  tad  it  tvd  yiiktdh  ha/rayo 
vahantu  \  yada  kadd  cha  sunavama  somam  Agnis  tvd  duto  dhatwdti  aehha  | 
6.  Fard  yahi  maghma/im  d  cha  yahi  Indra  hhratar  uhhayatra  te  artham  | 
yatra  rathasya  Irihato  rAdhdnaih  vimoeha/nam  vdjino  rdsabhasya  \  fr. 
Apdh  somam  astam  Indra  pra  ydhi  halydnir  jdyd  swranam  grihe  te  \ 
yatra  rathasya  Irihato  nidhdnam  vimochanam  vdjino  dakshindvat  \ 

(FrajapaUr  In^am  asfijata  dntefavaram  dmmnam  \  tarn  pt'aMnot  "pareHi  \  etesham 
devanam  adhipatir  ecthi  "  iti  |  torn  devah  ahru/om  "kcts  tvam  asi  ilaycm  vai  tvcet  ireyam- 
saK  smali"  iti  |  so  'brmiit  "  'ias  tvam  asi  vayam  vtfi  tvat  s'reyamiah  smah'  iti  ma 
devah  ahrwomm "  iti  |  atha  vai  idam  tarhi  Prdjapatau  hd/rah  aald  (2)  Yad  dsminn 
aditye  |  tad  ena/m  atra/nd  "  etact  me  praiyaih%a  \  atha  aham  etesham  devanam  adhi- 
paiir  hhwoishyami'''  iti  \  ).  Compare  the  Taittiriya  Saflhita  vi,  6,  11,  2,  where 
Indra  is  said  to  have  become  chief  of  the  goiJa  in  virtue  of  a  ceremony  which  Pra- 
japati  commuiiicated  to  him.  See  also  the  same  work  vii.  2,  10,  2.  In  another 
place  vii.  3,  6,  6,  he  is  said  to  have  obtained  from  Pr&japati  the  panchadaiaratra 
vajra,  whereby  he  was  enabled  to  overcome  the  Asuras,  of  whom  he  bad  previously 
been  afraid,  and  to  attain  prosperity. 


82  THE   INDIAN  GODS    GENEEALLY, 

4.  "A  -wife,  Indra,  is  one's  home;  she  is  a  man's  dwelling;  there- 
fore let  thy  horses  be  yoked,  and  cany  thee  thither.  But  whenever 
we  pour  forth  a  libation  of  soma,  then  may  Agni  hasten  to  call  thee. 
5.  Depart,  Indra ;  come  hither,  brother  Indra ;  in  both  quarters  thou 
hast  inducements.  Whenever  thy  great  chariot  halts,  thy  steed  is 
unharnessed.  6.  Depart,  Indra,  to  thy  home ;  thou  hast  drunk  the 
soma ;  thou  hast  a  lovely  wife,  and  pleasure  in  thy  house.  Where- 
ever  thy  great  chariot  halts,  it  is  proper  that  thy  steed  should  be 
unharnessed." 

In  a  few  passages  (i.  22,  12;  ii.  32,  8 ;  v.  46,  8  ;  x.  86,  11,  12) 
mention  is  made  of  a  goddess  Indrani,  who,  from  her  name,  must  be 
the  spouse  of  Indra.  In  the  first  three  places  she  is  invoked  together 
with  other  goddesses,  among  whom  we  find  Agnayi  and  YarunanI,  the 
wives  of  Agni  and  Varuna.  In  x.  86,  11,  12,  a  little  more  is  told  of 
Indrani.  Thus  in  verse  11,  the  speaker  says:  Indrdnim  asu  narishu 
subhagam  aham  airwoam  \  nahi  asyah  aparam  chana  jwrasa  marate 
patih  I  "  I  have  heard  that  among  all  these  females  Indrani  is  the  most 
fortunate ;  for  her  husband  shall  never  at  any  future  time  die  of  old 
ggg_))i63  rpjjg  Aitaxeya  Brahmana,  iii.  22,  aUudes  to  a  wife  of  Indra, 
called  Prasaha  {te  devah  abruvann  iyam  nai  Indrasya  priyajdya  vavatd 
Prasaha  ndma).     See  Professor  Hang's  Translation,  p.  194. 

The  S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  2,  1,  8,  says :  "  Indrani  is  Indra's  beloved  wife 
and  she  has  a  head-dress  of  all  forms  "  {Inch-am  ha  vai  Ind/rmya  priyd 
patni  I  iasydh  ushmsho  vUva/rupatamah). 


•55  I  am  unable  to  say  to  whom  the  obscene  verses  (6  and  7)  of  this  hymn  refer. 
In  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  2,  7,  she  is  thus  portentously  described :  Indrani  devi  subhaga 
supatm  tid  ams'ena  pati-vidye  jig  ay  a  |  trims' ad  asyah  jaghamam  yojanani  |  tipcfsthe 
Jndram  sthaviram  Hbfiartti  \  Professor  Weber,  Ind.  Stud.  iii.  479,  quotes  from  the 
Kathaka,  13,  5,  a  short  passage,  stating  that  Indra  was  enamoured  of  a  Danavl, 
called  Vilistenga,  and  that  he  lived  among  the  Asuras,  taking  the  form  of  a  female 
when  among  females,  of  a  male  among  males  ;  and  that  finding  himself,  as  it  were, 
seized  by  Nirriti,  he  resorted  to  a  certain  oblation  as  a  remedy,"  etc.  (Indro  vai  Vilis- 
tengam  Banamtn  akamaiyata  \  so  'sureslw  achmat  strl  eva  strishu  hhamanpumanpmmu  \ 
sa  Nirriti-grihltah  iva  ama/nyata  \  sa  etam  aindra-nairritam  apasyat  |)  In  the 
Atharva-veda,  Tii.  38,  2,  a  female  says  to  the  man  she  wishes  to  love  her :  Tena  a 
nichakre  asuri  Indram  dmeblu/as  pari  \  tena  a  ni  kurve  tvam  aham  yatXd  te  'sani 
supriya  •]  "  In  order  that  I  may  be  beloved  by  thee,  I  overcome  thee  with  this  plant, 
wherewith  the  Asura  female  drew  Indra  down  from  among  the  gods." 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN    THE   EIG-TEDA.  83 


(2)  His  attributes  physical  and  mental. 

A.  variety  of  vague  and  general  epithets  are  lavished  upon  Indra. 
He  is  distinguished  as  youthful,  ancient,  strong,  agile  {yiritv,  i.  130,  7 ; 
ii.  22,  4;  vi.  29,  3;  viii.  24,  9,  12;  viii.  57,  7;  viii.  81,  3),  martial, 
heroic,  bright,  imdecaying,  aU-conquering,  lord  of  unbounded  wisdom, 
and  irresistible  power  and  prowess,  wielder  of  the  thunderbolt,  etc., 
etc.  (i.  4,  8  ;  i.  16,  9;  i.  30,  6,  15 ;  i.  61,  1 ;  i.  81,  2,  7 ;  i.  84,  2  ; 
i.  100,  12  ;  i.  102,  6;  i.  165,  6;  ii.  21,  1-3;  iii.  30,  3;  iii.  32,  7; 
iii.  45,  2;  iii.  46,  l;.vi.  18,  4;  vii.  20,  4  ;  vii.  22,  5  ;  viii.  81,  8; 
viii.  84,  7  ff. ;  x.  103,  1  ff).  "He  has  vigour  in  his  body,  strength  in 
his  arms,  a  thunderbolt  in  his  hand,  and  wisdom  in  his  head"  (ii.  16, 
2.  Jafliare  soma0i  tami  saho  maTio  haste  vajram  hharati  sirshani  hratum  \ 
viii.  85,  3.  Ind/rasya  vajrah  ayaso  nimiUah  Ini/rasyo  hahvor  hhuyishfTiain 
ojdh  I  Indrasya  ilrshm  Icrafmo  nireTce)  :  He  assumes  the  most  beautiful 
forms,  and  is  invested  with  the  ruddy  lustre  of  the  sun"  (x.  112,  3. 
haritvata  varchasa  suryasya  ireshthaih  rupais  tanvam  spa/riwyasva).  The 
Vedic  poets  have  also  described  to  us  a  few  of  the  features,  as  they 
conceived  them,  of  his  personal  appearance.  One  of  the  epithets  which 
are  most  feequently  applied  to  him  is  susipra,  or  Siprin,  in  the  interpre- 
tation of  which  Say  ana  wavers  between  "the  god  with  handsome 
cheeks  or  nose  "  {he  suivpra  iohhana-hano  ^ohhana-ndsiSa  va).  (i.  9,  3 ; 
i.  29,  2;  i.  81,  4;  i.  101,  10;^=*  iii.  32,  3  ;  iii..  36,  10  ;  viii.  32,  4, 
24 ;  viii.  33,  7 ;  viii.  55,  4 ;  x.  105,  5),'==  and  the  "  god  with  the 
beautiful  helmet "  (§obhana-^irastranopeto  yadvd  sohhana-hanuman  |  iii. 
30,  3;  viii.  17,  4;  viii.  81,  4;  viii.  82,  12)."= 

In  viii.  65,  10,  he  is  said  to  have  agitated  his  jaws  when  rising  in 
strength  after  drinking  the  soma  poured  out  from  a  ladle  {uftishthann 
<yasa  saha  pitvl  iipre  mepwyah  \  somam  Indra  chamv,  sutam).    He  is 

'"  Compare  i.  30,  H. 

185  A  note  on  this  word  wiU  be  given  in  the  Sectifln  on.  the  Manits. 

166  In  E.y.  vi.  46,  3,  Indra  is  styled  mhasra-muahka,  which  Sayana  interprets  mille 
membra  gmitalia  habens  ;  and  adds  the  following,  gross  explanation  from  the  Kaushi- 
taki  Brahmana :  yam  Team  eha  striyam  sdmbhmxmn  Indro  bhoga-lolwpataya  svasarlre 
parvani  parvani  sephan  sasarjja  iti  kmishitakibhir  amnatam  \  On  yiii.  19,  32,  how- 
ever, where  the  same  epithet  occurs,  applied,  as  Sayana  considers,  to  Agni,  he  explains 
it  as  meaning  "having  great  brilliancy"  {mushnanti  tamamsy  apaharmtti  iti  muah- 
kani  tgamsi  \  bahutejaskdm^. 


84  THE  mDIAN  GODS   GENERALLY, 

also  called  hwri-sipra,  the  ruddy-jawed  (x.  96,  4,  9,  12) ;  hmri-Ma, 
tte  ruddy-  or  golden-taired  (x.  96,  5,  8) ;  hari-imaiaru,^^  the  ruddy- 
or  golden-bearded,  or  moustached  (x.  96,  8 ;  x.  23,  4).  His  beard  is 
violently  agitated  when  he  is  exhilarated,  or  puts  himself  in  motion 
(ii.  11,  17,  pradodhuvat  ima^ruslm  prinamh;  x.  23,  1,  pra  imasru 
dodhuvat).^^  His  whole  appearance  is  ruddy  or  golden  {hari-varpas,  x. 
96,  Iff.,  where  the  changes  are  rung  upon  the  word  hari).  He  is  some- 
times also  described  as  hiranyaya,  golden  (i.  7,  2 ;  viii.  55,  3),  and  as 
having  golden  arms  {hiranya-hahu,  vii.  34,  4) ;  and  sometimes  as  of  an 
iron  hue,  or  frame  {ayasa)  (i.  56,  3 ;  x.  96,  4,  8).  His  arms  are  long 
and  far-extended  (vi.  19,  3,  prithu  karasnd  lahuld  gabhasti ;  viii.  32, 
10,  sripra-karasna ;  viii.  70,  1,  mahahastin).™  But  his  forms  are  end- 
less; he  can  assume  Miy  shape  at  will  (iii.  38,  4,  visvmrupo  amritani 
tasthau;  iii.  48,  4,  yathavaiam  tanvam  chahre  esha ;  iii.  53,  8,  ruparh 
rupam  maghma  holhwoiti  mayah  hrinvanas  tanvam  pa/ri  svam ;  vi.  47, 
18,  rupam  rupam  pratirupo  labhuva  tad  aaya  rupam  pratichahshanaya  \ 
Indro  mayabhih  purwupah  lyate). 

(3)  Sis  chariot  and  Tioraes. 

Carrying  in  his  hand  a  golden  whip  {kaiA  hiranyayi,  viii.  33,  11), 
he  is  borne  on  a  shining  golden  car,  with  a  thousand  supports  (vi.  29, 
2,  a  rathe  hiranyaye  rathesthah;  viii.  1,  24  f.,  rathe  hiranyaye;  viii. 
58,  16,  o  ratham  tishtha  hiranyayam  mhasrapadam),  which  moves  more 
swiftly  than  thought  (x.  112,  2,  yas  te  ratho  manaso  j'aviyan  a  Indra 
tena  somapeyaya  ydhi),  and  is  drawn  by  two ''"  tawny  (hari,  ruddy,  or 

157  I  suppose  this  is  tlie  same  as  hiri'smaint  applied  to  Agni  in  E.V.  x.  46,  5 
(instead  of  which  the  Sama-veda  in  the  parallel  passage  reads  hariimasru.  In  E.V. 
ii.  2,  6,  Agni  is  called  hirisipra,  which  Sayana  interprets  to  mean  either  harana-sila- 
hemu,  "he  whose  jaws  carry  away,"  or  diptoshmsha,  "with  flaming  head-dress." 

158  A  beard  is  also  assigned  to  Pushan,  who  similarly  shakes  it  (x.  26,  7). 

159  In  a  verse  which  does  not  occur  in  the  Rig-reda,  the  Sama-veda,  ii.  1219,  thus 
describes  Indra's  arms:  Indramja  hahu  sthavirmi  yzmanav  anadhrishyim  supra- 
tlMv  mahyau  |  tau  ywijita  prathamau  yoge  agate  yabhyam  jitam  aswanam  saho 
mahat  |  "  When  the  occasion  arrives  may  Indra  employ  first  those  arms  strong,  youth- 
ful, unassailable,  well-shaped,  unconquerable,  vfith  which  the  great  power  of  the 
Asuras  was  overcome." 

i'"  In  ii.  18,  4-7  Indra  is  invited  to  come  with  two,  four,  six,  eight,  ten,  twenty, 
thirty,  forty,  fifty,  sixty,  seventy,  eighty,  ninety,  or  a  hundred  horses  (compare  viii. 
1,  9)  to  drink  the  soma-juice.     In  iv.  46,  3,  a  thousand  horses  are  said  to  convey 


AS  EEPEESENTED   IN  THE  EIG-VEDA.  85 

golden)  steeds,  snorting,  neighing,  and  irresistible  (i.  SO,  16,  Saimd 
Indflrah  popruthaihhir  jigaya  nanadadlMh  iahasadbhir  dhanani  ;  i.  81, 
3,  madaohyuta  Imrt),^''^  -with  flowing  golden  manes,  lekina  (i.  10,  3  ; 
i.  82,  6  ;  viii.  17,  2 ;  hkanya-Mya,  viii.  32,  29  ;  viii.  82,  24),  with  hair 
like  peaQock's  feathers  (iii.  45,  1  (=A.V.  vii.  117,  1),  a  harihhw  yahi 
mayura-romaihih),  and  peacock's  taUs  {mayurakpya,  viii.  1,  25),  which 
rapidly  traverse  vast  distances  (ii.  16,  3,  yad  aiuhhih  patasi  yojana 
pwu),  and  transport  him  as  a  hawk  is  borne  by  its  wings  (viii.  34,  9, 
a  tva  madaohyuta  hmn  iyenam  paksheva  vdkshatah).  His  car  and  horses 
appear  to  have  been  formed  by  the  Eibhus  (i.  Ill,  1,  Tahshan  ratJiafh 
suvrtta^i  vidmand  'pasas  tahshan  hart  Indravdhd  vrishanvasv,  \  taksham, 
pitrihhyam  rihhmo  ywoad  vayah ;  v.  31,  4,  anavas  te  ratham  aivaya 
tahshan).  The  following  are  some  of  the  other  texts  which  refer  to 
Indra's  chariot  and  horses:  i.  6,  2;  i.  16,  1,  2  (where  the  horses 
are  called  sun-eyed,  surachahhasah) ;  i.  55,  7;  i.  84,  6;  i.  101,  10;  ii. 
H,  6;  viii.  13,  11,  27 ;  x.  44,  2.  He  is  also  said  to  be  borne  by  the 
horses  of  the  Sun  (x.  49,  7,  aham  suryasyapari  yami  d^ulMh  pra  etahhhtr 
vahamdnah  oj'asd),  or  by  those  of  Vata,  the  wind  (x.  22,  4-6,  yv^dno  akva 
Vdtasya  dhunl  devo  devasya  vqfrwah).'^^  The  same  deity,  Va3Ti,  the 
wind,  is  said  to  have  Indra  for  his  charioteer,  or  companion  in  his  car 
(iv.  46,  2;  iv.  48,  2,  Indra-sdrathi ;  vii.  91,  6,  Indra-vdyu  saratham 
ydtam  arvdh).  The  horses  of  Indra  are  declared  to  be  yoked  by  the 
power  of  prayer  (i.  82,  6,  yunajmi  te  hrahmand  heiind  ha/ri ;  ii. 
18,  3,  harl  nu  ham.  rathe  Indrasya  yoj'am  dyai  suhtena  vachasd  namena  ; 
iii.  35,  4,  hrahrnand  te  Irahmayuja  yuncymi  harl  sahhdyd  sadhamddd 
diu;  viii-  1,  24,  hrahnayvjo  harayah;  viii.  17,  2,  Irahmaytifd  harl; 
viii,  2,  27 ;  viii.  45,  39,  a  te  eta  vachoyuja  harl  grihhne ;  viii.  87,  9, 
yy,nj'anti  harl  ishirasya  gdthayd  wau  rathe  wuyuge  \  Indran)dhd  vaeho- 
yujd),  which  is  no  doubt  only  another  mode  of  saying  that  it  is  in  con- 

Indra  and  Vayu  (compare  vi.  47,  18).  In  viii.  1,  24,  Indra's  horses  are  said  to  be  a 
thousand  and  a  hundred,  From  such  a  text  as  iii.  35,  7,  where  Indra  is  informed 
that  food  has  been  provided  for  his  horses,  as  well  as  Boma-juioe  to  fill  his  own  belly 
(Terse  6),  it  woijld  appear  that  the  worshipper  had  a  perfect  assurance  of  the  god's 
presence.  In  another  place,  however  (x.  114,  9),  the  enquiry  is  made  (among  several 
others  deinoting  difficulty  apA  mystery),  "  Who  has  perceived  the  two  horses  of 
Indra?"  (fiwt  Jndri^sifa  ni  cMJeiya  kali,  svit  \  ). 

M'  On  the  sense  of  the  word  madaci^fut  see  MiiUer'a  Trans,  of  the  E.V.  i.  118  f. 

162  Compare  Psalms,  18,  10  ;  104,  3. 


86  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLT, 

sequence  of  the  importunity  of  his  worshippers  that  he  makes  ready 
his  chariot  to  come  and  receive  their  oblations  and  fulfil  their  desires. 

(4)  Sia  fhunderhelt  and  other  weapons  and  instruments. 

The  thunderbolt  of  Indra  is  generally  described  as  having  been 
fashioned  for  him  by  the  Indian  Hephaistos,  Tvashtri,  the  artificer  of  the 
gods  (i.  32,  2:  Tvashtd  asmai  vajra/ih  svaryam  tatahsha;  i.  61,  6,  asmai 
id  u  Tvashtd  takshad  va^ram  svapastamam  sva/ryafh  ranaya;  i.  85,  9, 
Tvashta  yad  vcyrwm  sukritam  hiranyayam  sahasrahhristim  svapdh  avart- 
tayat  |  v.  31,  4,  Tvashtd  vqfram  dyumantam  tahshat;  vi.  17,  10,  adha 
Ihash{d  te  make  ugra  vcy'ram  sahasrabhrishtim  vavritat  §atdirim  \  x.  48,  3, 
mahyam  Tvashtd  vcyram  atahshad  dyasam) ;  but  according  to  other  texts 
it  appears  to  have  been  made  and  given  to  Indra  by  Kavya  TJ^anas 
(i.  121,  12,  yam  te  Kdvyah  JJiand  mandinafh  dad  vrittrdhanam  pdrya0i 
tatahsha  v<y'ram ;  v.  34,  2,  sahasralhrishtim  TTsand  vadham  yamat).^^ 
Its  natural  mode  of  production  is  alluded  to  in  viii.  89,  9,  ■where  it  is 
said  :  "  The  thunderbolt  lies  in  the  (aerial)  ocean,  enveloped  in  water" 
(samudre  rnitah  iayate  udnd  vajro  abhivritah).  This  thunderbolt  is  some- 
times styled  golden,  hiranyaya  (i.  57,  2 ;  i.  85,  9 ;  viii.  57,  3  ;  x.  23,  3), 
sometimes  ruddy,  ha/rita  (x.  96,  3) ;  but  it  is  also  described  as  being 
of  iron,  ayasa  (i.  52,  8;  i.  80,  12;  i.  81,  4;  i.  121,  9;  viii.  85,  3; 
X.  48,  3  ;  X.  96,  3;  x.  113,  5) ;  sometimes  it  is  represented  as  four- 
angled,  ehatwrasri  (iv.  22,  2),  sometimes  as  hundred-angled,  SatdSri  (vi. 
17,  10),  sometimes  as  hundred-jointed,  Sataparvan  (i.  80,  6 ;  viii.  6, 
6 ;  viii.  65,  2 ;  viii.  78,  3),'"  and  sometimes  as  having  a  thousand 
points,  sdhasrabhrishti  (i.  80,  12;  i.  85,  9;  v.  34,  2 ;  vi.  17,  10). 
Indra  is  in  one  place  (i.  55,  1)  represented  as  sharpening  his  thunder- 
bolt, as  a  buU  his  horns  {Ukte  vtyram  tejase  na  vamsagah).  In  viii.  59, 
2,  the  thunderbolt  put  into  Indra's  hand  is  compared  to  the  sun  placed 
in  the  sky  {dive  na  suryah).    In  other  passages  this  god  is  spoken  of 

163  The  Ait.  Br.  iv.  1,  says :  deoah  vai  prathamma  a/ma  Indraya  vajrcm  sama- 
iharan  |  torn  dviftyma  ahna  aainchtm  |  trWiyena  ahna  prayachhoM  \  tarn  chaturthe 
ahan  praharat  \  "  The  gods  provided  the  thunderbolt  for  Indra  by  the  first  day's 
(ceremony).  By  the  second  day's  they  moistened  it.  By  the  third  day's  they  gave 
it  to  him.    On  the  fourth  day  he  hurled  it."     See  Prof.  Hang's  Trans,  p.  255. 

•6*  Compare  A.V.  iv.  37,  8  :  bhirrmh  Ind/rasya  hetayah  aatdbhrishtlr  ayasmayih ; 
«nd  the  next  verse,  which  is  the  same,  with  the  substitution  of  hiranym/il}  for  ayaa- 
may'ih;  and  A.V.  viii.  6,  16. 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN   THE    EIG-VEDA.  87 

as  armed  -witli  a  bow  and  arrows  (viii.  45,  4 ;  viii.  66,  6,  11 ;  x.  103, 
2,  3).  His  arrows  are  described  as  golden  (viii.  66,  11),  as  having  a 
hundred  points,  and  as  being  winged  with  a  thousand  feathers  (viii.  66, 
7).  Indra  is  also  declared  to  carry  a  hook  (aniu^a).  Thus  in  viii.  17j 
10,  it  is  said:  dirghm  te  astu  aniuio  yena  vasu  prayachhasi  \  yajama- 
naya  sunvate  |  "  May  the  hook  be  long  wherewith  thou  reachest 
wealth  to  the  worshipper  who  offers  oblations."  And  similarly  in 
Atharva-veda,  vi.  82,  3,  yas  te  artkuko  vasudano  hrihmn  Indra  hwan- 
yayah  \  tend  janiyate  jdyam  mahyam  dhehi  iachipate  \  "With  that 
great  golden  hook  of  thine  which  confers  wealth,  o  lord  of  power 
(Indra),  reach  a  wife  to  me  who  am  longing  for  one.""'  Another 
text  in  which  this  word  occurs  is  E.V.  x.  134,  6  (=  Sama-veda  ii. 
441):  dirgham  hi  anku^am  yatha  iaMim  hibhwrsM  mantumah  \  purvem 
maghmian  padd  <yo  vwydm  yatha  \  "  Thou,  o  wise  (Indra),  carriest  a 
long  hook  like  a  spear,  and  (boldest  fast  therewith),  as  a  goat  (catches) 
a  branch  with  its  fore  foot."  The  word  is  also  found  in  x.  44,  9  :  "I 
carry  to  thee  this  weU-made  goad,  wherewith,  o  magnificent  god,  thou 
mayest  rend  the  S'apharuj  demons "  "*  {imam  bibharmi  mhritafh  te 
ankuiam  yena  driyad  maghavan  iaphdrujaV). 

Another  instrument  of  warfare,  a  net,  is  assigned  to  Indra  in  the 
A.V.  viii.  8,  5  ff. :  antarihaham  jdlam  dslj  jdladandd  dih  mahih  \  tend- 
bhidhdya  dasyundm  kakrah  sendm  apdtayat  |  6.  Brihad  hi  jdlam 
brihatah  kakrasya  vdjinvoatah  |  tena  katrUn  abhi  sa/rvdn  nyubja  yathd  na 
muchydtai  katama&chana  eshdm  \  7.  Brihat  te  jdlam  brihatah  Indra 
sura  sahasrdrghfiaya  &atamrymya  \  tena  sahasram  ayutam  ni  arbudam 
jagJtdna  sakro  dasyundm  abhidhdya  senayd  \  8.  ayam  loho  jdlam  dslt 
kahrasya  mahato  mahdn  \  tendham  Indrqjdlena  amums  tamasd  'bhi 
dadhdmi  sa/rvdn  \ 


•'5  In  these  passages  I  follow  Eoth's  explanation  of  ankusa,  as  given  in  Ms  Lexi- 
con, s.v.  In  Ids  translation  of  this  passage  from  the  A.V.  ia  Indische  Studien  v.  241, 
Professor  Weber  understands  the  word  {cmktisa)  of  a  goad  with  which  cattle  are 
driven.  In  A.V.  vii.  115,  1,  lU  fortune,  Papl  Lakshml,  is  said  to  he  drawn  or  driven 
away  with  an  iron  hook  {ayasmm/ena  amkena). 

i«6  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufrecht  for  pointing  out  the  sense  of  this  verse, 
as  well  as  of  the  preceding.  S'apharuj  seems  to  mean  a  demon,  or  an  animal  that 
destroys  with  its  hoo&.  The  word  occurs  also  in  x.  87,  12,  where  it  is  an  epithet 
of  Yatudhana,  a  demon,  and  appears  to  refer  to  some  goblin  which  was  conceived  to 
tear  with  its  hoofs. 


88  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENEEALLT, 

"  The  air  was  a  net,  and  the  great  quarters  of  the  sky  the  poles  of  the 
net.  "With  it  S'akra  (or  the  powerful  god)  enveloped  the  army  of  the 
Dasyus,  and  cast  them  down.  6.  Great  is  the  net  of  the  great  S'akra, 
bestower  of  food.  With  it  so  overwhelm  aU  the  foes  that  not  one  of 
them  m^y  escape.  7.  Great  is  thy  net,  o  heroic  Indra,  who  art  great, 
and  a  match  for  a  thousand,  and  equalling  the  strength  of  a  hundred 
foes.  S'akra,  with  his  host,  slew  a  thousand,  ten  thousand,  a  hundred 
millions  of  the  Dasyus,  enveloping  them  in  it.  8,  This  world  was  the 
great  net  of  the  great  S'akra.  With  this  net  of  Indra  I  envelope  them 
aU.  in  darkness."  '*' 

(5)  Sis  love  of  soma-jmce. 

Invoked  by  his  mortal  worshippers,  Indra  obeys  the  summons,  and 
speedily  arrives  in  his  chariot  to  receive  their  offerings.  He  finds  food 
provided  for  his  horses  (iii.  35,  7,  stirnaM  te  harhih  sutah  Indra  somah 
TcritS,  dhana  attme  te  hwribhyam),  and  large  libations  of  soma-juice  are 
poured  out  for  himself  to  quaff.  He  becomes  exhilarated  by  these 
libations,  which  are  also  frequently  described  as  stimulating  his  war- 
like dispositions  and  energies,  and  fitting  him  for  his  other  functions, 
even  for  supporting  the  earth  and  sky  (ii.  15,  2  :  avafhie  JDyam  asta- 
Ihayad  Irihantam,  .  .  .  .  sa  dharayat  Prithmm  paprathat  eha  somasya 
td  made  Indrak  ohakara).  The  following  are  a  few  of  the  numerous 
passages  which  refer  to  this  worship  of  Indra :  i.  4,  8 ;  i.  32,  3 ; 
i.  80,  If.;  i.  84,  1  (where  the  poet  hopes  the  draught  may  fill  him 
with  strength,  as  the  sun  fills  the  air  with  his  rays :  a  tva  pri- 
nahtu  indriyam  rajah  suryo  na  ra^mibfdh),  4  (where  it  is  said  to  be 
an  "immortal  stimulant" — amartyam  madam);  ii.  15,  1,  2;  ii.  19,  1 
f. ;  ii.  21,  1 ;  iii.  36,  3  ;  iii.  40,  1  ff.  ;  iii.  42,  1  ff. ;  vi.  23,  1,  5,  6; 
vi.  27,  If.;  vi.  29,  4 ;  vii.  22,  1  f. ;  vii.  29,  1  f. ;  viii.  3,  1 ;  viii.  81, 
5,  6  ;  X.  104,  1  ff. ;  etc.,  etc.  The  gods  are  described  as  all  hastening 
eagerly  to  partake  of  this  beverage,  viii.  2,  18  {yanti  pramadam  atan- 
drah);  viii.  68, 11 :  apad Indro  apdd  Agnir  viive  devdh  amatsata  |  "Indra 
has  drunk,  Agni  has  drunk ;  all  the  gods  have  become  exhilarated;"'*' 

167  Compare  A.V.  xix.  66,  1 :  m/ojalah  asurah  mayino  'ycrnnm/aih  pasair  emkino 
ye  charemti  |  tarns  te  randhayami  harasS  Jatm>edah  sahasrabhrishtih  sapatnan 
pramincm  yahi  vajrah. 

'*'  Ait.  Br.  Ti.  11 :  madyanti  iva  vai  madkyandme  devatah  mm  eva  tritTya-savcme 


AS   EEPEESENTED    IK   THE   EIG-VEDA.  89 

but  Indra  is  particularly  addicted  to  tKe  indulgence,  i,  104,  9,  somaka- 
mam  tva  ahuh;  i.  175,  5,  ^ushmintamo  hi  te  maSah  ;  ii.  14,  1,  kaml  hi 
virah  sadam  asya  pitim  j'uhota  vrishne  tad  hi  esha  vashfi ;  vii-  33,  2, 
durad  Indram  wnayann  a  sutena ;  viii.  2,  4,  Indrah  it  somapa^  ehah 
Ind/ralj,  sutapdh  m^vayul}  \  antwr  devan  mwrtyami  cha  \  "  Indra  is  the 
only  drinker  of  soma,  a  drinker  of  libations,  of  full  vitality,  among 
gods  and  men;"  viii.  4,  12,  idam  te  annam  yv^yoiih  samukshitcm  tasya 
ihi pradrma  piba  |  "This  thy  favourite  nutriment  has  been  poured  out ; 
run  and  drink  of  it;''  viii.  6,  40,  vrittraha  somapdtamah ;  viii.  50,  2, 
somakamam  hi  te  manah  \  Indeed,  it  would  appear  to  be  to  him  an 
absolute  necessary  of  life,  as  his  mother  gave  it  to  him  to  drink  on  the 
very  day  of  his  birth  (iii.  32,  9,  sadyo  ywj  jato  apiho  ha  soman  \  10. 
tvam  sadyo  apiho  jdtah  Indra  maddya  somam  parame  vyoman ;  iii.  48,  2, 
3,  already  quoted,  p.  77 ;  vi.  40, 2,  asyapiba  yasya  Jcy'ndnah  Indro  maddya 
Tcratve  apihdh  ;  vii.  98,  3,  jajndnah  somam  sahase  papdtha  pra  te  mdtd 
mahvmdnam,  uvdcha).  He  is  said  to  have  drunk  at  one  draught  thirty 
bowls  of  soma  (viii.  66,  4,  ekayd  pratidhd  'pibat  sdhant  sardmsi  trim- 
iatam  \  Indrah  somasya  kdnukd.  See  Mrukta,  v.  11 ;  compare  R. V. 
vi.  17,  11;  and  viii.  7,  10).  His  worshippers  invite  him  in  the  most 
na'if  manner  to  drink  boldly  (vi.  47,  6,  dhrishat  piba  kalaie  somam 
Indra) ;  to  drink  like  a  thirsty  stag  (viii.  4,  10,  riiyo  na  trishyann, 
amapdnam  dgahi  piba  somdn  vaSdn  ami),  or  a  bull  roaming  in  a  water- 
less waste  (v.  36,  1,  dhanvaohwro  na  vamsagas  trishanas  chakamdnah 
pibatu  dugdham  amium  \  compare  viii.  33,  2,  kadd  sutam  trishdnah 
okah  dgamah  Indra  svabdiva  vafhsagah,  and  fill  his  beUy,  or  his  two 
bellies,  which  are  compared  to  two  lakes,  by  copious  potations ;  and  he 
speaks  in  similar  language  of  having  accepted  the  invitation  '*'  (i.  8,  7 ; 
i.  104,  9;  ii.  11,  11  [sutdsah  prinantas  te  kukshi  vardhayantu) ;  ii.  14, 
10 ;  ii.  16,  2 ;  iii.  35,  6  {dadjiishva  imamj'athare  indum  Indra) ;  iii.  36, 
7,  8  {hraddh  vva  kukshayah  somadhdndh) ;  iii.  40,  5;  iii.  47,  1  (a 
sinchasva  jatha/re  madhvah  urmim) ;  iii.  51,  12  {pra  te  dinotu  kukshyoh); 
viii.  12,  23  {saro  na  prdsi  udaram) ;  viii.  2,  I  {supurnam  uda/ram) ; 
viii.  17,  5-8  (a  te  sinchdmi  kukshyoh);  viii.  67,  7;  viii.  81,  22-24; 

rmdaymie,  which  Professor  Hang  translates :  "  The  gods  get  drunk,  »s  it  were,  st 
the  mid-day  libation,  and  are  then  consequently  at  the  third  libation  in  a  state  of 
complete  drunkenness." 
169  xhe  soma-juice  was  a,lso  drunk  by  the  worshippers  themselves,  and  its  effects  on 


90  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

X.  28,  2  ;  X.  43,  7  ;  x.  104,  2  ;  A.V.  ii.  5,  1  ff.  ;  vi.  2,  1  ff.  The 
soma-draughts  are  said  to  resort  to  him  as  birds  to  a  leafy  tree ;  and 
to  flow  to  him  as  waters  to  the  ocean,  or  rivulets  to  a  lake ;  and  his 
worshippers  are  then  said  to  magnify  him  as  grain  is  developed  by 
showers  of  rain,  x.  43,  4  (  Va/yo  na  vrihsham  supala^am  dsadan  somdsah 
Indram  mmdinai  cJicwiushadah  \  7.  Apo  na  sinihum  aibhi  yat  sama- 
hsharm  somaaah  Ind/ram  hulyah  iva  hradam  |  vardhanti  viprdh  maho 
asya  sadane  yavam  na  vrishtir  divyena  danuna).  He  is  also  spoken  of 
as  eating  the  flesh  of  buUs,  or  bnflfaloes,  at  the  same  time  that  he 
drinks  the  draughts  of  soma  (x.  28,  3,  adrind  te  mandinah  Indra  tuydn 
surwanti  soman  pibad  tvam  eshdm  \  paehanti  te  vrisJutbhdn  atsi  teshdm). 
Three  hundred  are  mentioned  in  v.  29,  7  f.,  one  hundred  in  viii.  66, 
10,  and  one  in  x.  27,  2.  Indra  is  besought  to  taste  the  offering  pre- 
sented, and  to  take  delight  in  the  hymns  addressed  to  him,  as  an  ardent 
lover  desires  his  mistress  {iii.  52,  3  =  iv.  32,  16  :  pwoldiam  cha 
no  ghaso  joslmydse  gira§  cha  |  vadhuywr  iva  yoshandm). 

The  sensations  of  the  god  after  drinking  the  soma-juice  are  thus 
described  in  Eig-veda  x.  119  :  1.  iti  vai  Hi  me  mano  gam  a^vam  sanuyam 
iti  I  kwit  somasya  apdm  iti  |  2.  pra  vdtdh  iva  dodhatalj,  un  md  pitdh 
ayamsata  \  huvid  ity  ddi  |  3.  un  md  pitah  ayamsata  ratham  aSvdh  ivdia- 
vah  I  hwit — |  4.  upa  md  matir  asthita  vdird  putram  iva  priyam  |  kiwit —  | 

some  of  them  are  occasionally  described.  Thus  in  vi.  47,  3,  it  is  said :  "This  (soma), 
when  drunk,  impels  my  voice;  it  awakes  the  ardent  thought"  ayam  me  pitah 
udit/artti  vacham  ay  am  mamsham  us'atm  ajTgah).  In  viii.  48,  3,  its  elevating  effect 
is  still  more  distinctly  told  in  these  words,  apama  somam  amritah  abhuma  aganma 
jyotir  aviddma  devan  \  kirn  nunam  asmati  krinavad  aratih  Mm  u  dhurttir  amrita 
marttyasya,  which  may  be  rendered  as  follows  : — 

We've  qaaffed  the  soma  bright. 

And  are  immortal  grown ; 
We've  entered  into  light. 

And  all  the  gods  have  known. 
What  mortal  now  can  harm, 

Or  foeman  vex  ns  more .' 
Through  thee,  beyond  alarm, 
Immortal  god,  we  soar. 
Compare  the  curious  parallel  to  this  (already  noticed  in  the  3rd  Vol.  of  this  work, 
p.  265)  in  the  satirical  drama  of  Euripides,  the  Cyclops,  678,  ff.,  where  Polyphemus 
exclaims  in  his  drunken  exaltation  : 

"O  5"  oipav6s  lioi  ffvufie/uyjiiyos  Soieet 
Ty  yy  tt^4peff9at,  rov  Ai6s  re  rhv  Bpivov 
Aeiffffu  rb  iray  re  Saifi6vuy  ayyhv  o'ejSaf. 


AS  EEPEESENTED  IN  THE  EIG-VEDA.  91 

5.  aharh  tashteva  vtmdhtiram  pmy  achami  hridd  matim  \  kmit — |  6.  na  hi 
me  aJesMpach  chana  achhantsuh  pa/noha  krishtayah  \  kmit — |  7.  na  M  me 
rodasl  uhhe  any  am  paksham  chana  prati  \  kuvit — |  8.  alhi  dydm  mahind 
'hha/oam  abhimdm  prithivim  mahim  \  kuvit —  |  9.  hantdham  prithivim 
imam  ni  dadhdniha  veha  vd  |  kuvit — |  10.  osham  it  prithivim  aham 
janghandniha  veha  vd  \  kuvit — |  11.  divi  me  anyah  paksho  adho  any  am 
aohlkrisham  \  kmit  —  |  12.  aham  asmi  mahdmaho  abhinabhyam  udl- 
shitah  I  kuvit —  |  13.  griho  ydmi  arankrito  devehhyo  hmyavdhanah  \ 
kuvit  somasya  apdm  iti  \  "" 

"  I  haye  verily  resolved  to  bestow  cows  and  horses :  I  have  quaffed 
the  soma.  2.  The  draughts  which  I  have  drunk  impel  me  Hke  violent 
blasts :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  3.  The  draughts  which  I  have 
drunk  impel  me  as  fleet  horses  a  chariot :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  4. 
The  hymn  (of  my  worshipper)  has  hastened  to  me,  as  a  cow  to  her 
beloved  calf:  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  5.  I  turn  the  hymn  round 
about  in  my  heart,  as  a  carpenter  a  beam :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma. 

6.  The  five  tribes  of  men  appear  to  me  not  even  as  a  mote :  I  have 
quaffed  the  soma.  7.  The  two  worlds  do  not  equal  even  one  half  of 
me :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  8.  I  surpass  in  greatness  the  heaven 
and  this  vast  earth :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  9.  Come,  let  me  plant 
this  earth  either  here  or  there  :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  10.  Let  me 
smite  the  earth  rapidly  hither  or  thither :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma. 
11.  One  half  of  me  is  in  the  sky,  and  I  have  drawn  the  other  down  : 
I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  12.  I  am  majestic,  elevated  to  the  heavens : 
I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  13.  I  go  prepared  as  a  minister,  a  bearer  of 
oblations  to  the  gods  :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma." 

The  hymns,  prayers,  and  worship  addressed  to  Indra  are  described 
as  stimulating  his  energies  and  increasing  his  vigour  (i.  52,  7  :  brah- 
mdni  Indra  tma  ydni  vardhand);  i.  54,  8;  i.  80,  1  ;  ii.  11,  2  (ukthair 
vmridhdnaK) ;  ii.  12,  14  {yasya  brahma  vardhanam  yasya  somah) ;  iii. 
32,  12  f.  {yajno  hi  te  Indra  vardhano  bhut ;  yah  stomebhir  vavridhe 
purvyebhir  yo  madhyebhir  uta  nutanebhih) ;  iii.  34,  1  {brahmcyutas 
tanva  vavridhdnah)  ;  v.  31,  10  {Indra  brahmdni  tavishlm  avardhan) ; 
vi.  21,  2;  vi.  44,  13;  viii.  6,  1,  21,  31,  35;  viii.  13,  16  {Indram  var- 

"»  I  learn  from  a  note  to  Professor  Eoth's  lUustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  101, 
that,  according  to  Sayana,  there  was  a  legend  that  Indra,  in  the  form  of  a  quail, 
drank  soma,  was  seen  by  the  rishi,  and  sang  his  own  praise  in  this  hymn. 


92  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENEEAILT, 

dhantu,  no  gira^  Jniram  autasah  indamh) ;  viii.  14,  5,  11  {yajnah 
Indram  amardhayat) ;  viii.  82,  27 ;  viii.  87,  8  {var  na  tva  yavyabhir 
vardhanti  iura  braJmdni);  x.  50,  4  (hhmas  tvam  Indra  ircihmana 
mahan) ;  x.  120,  5  {phodctyami  teayudhd  vachohhih  sam  te  iUami  Irah- 
mam  vaydmsi),  and  the  worshippers  (as  ■well  as  the  gods)  are  said 
to  place  the  thunderbolt  in  his  hands  and  to  assist  its  efScacy  (i. 
63,  2,  a  te  vajrarh  jwitd  h&Jwor  dhat) ;  ii.  20,  8  (tasmai  tavasyam 
anu  dayi  satra  Ifid^ay^,  devehhir  arnasatau  \  prati  yad  asya  vajram 
bdkvor  dhwr  hatvi  daayun  pwrah  dyasir  ni  tdrlf) ;  iii.  32,  12  {ytynas 
U  vajram  Ahikatye  dvaf).  The  other  deities,  too,  are  described  as  in- 
fusing divine  strength  into  Indra"'  (i.  80,  15,  tasmin  nrimnam  uta  hra- 
twin  devdh  ojdmsi  sam  dadkuk) ;  vi.  20,  2  {divo  na  tuhhyam  anu  Indra 
satrd  aawryaih  devehhir  dhdyi  vi^vam) ; '"  x.  48,  3  (mayi  devdso  a/vrijann 
api  kratum) ;  x.  113,  8 ;  x.  120,  3,  compare  x.  56,  4;  viii.  15,  8  (tava 
JDyattr  Indra  paumsyam  Prithwi  vardhati  sra/oaV),  and  as  placing  him  in 
the  van(i.  55,  3,  vUvasmai  ugrah  harmane  pwrohitajf)  ;  i-  131,  1  {Indrarh, 
viive  seyoahaso  devdso  dadMre  pwrah) ;  vi.  17,  8  {adha  tvd  vUve 
purah  Indra  devdh  elcam  tawasam  dadhire  Ihardya)  ;  viii.  12,  22 
{Indram  Vrittrdya  hantave.  devdso  dadMre  pwrah  \  see  also  v.  25).  Com- 
pare Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  3,  8 ;  Taitt.  S.  ii.  2,  11,  6,  and  A.Y.  vii.  84,  2  : 
apdnudo  janam  amitrdyantam  wum  d&ieihyo  alcrimr  u  hham.  He  is 
impelled  and  fortified  by  the  Maruts ;  iii.  32,  4  {yeljiir  Vrittrasya 
ishito  vweda  amarmano  manyamdnasya  mo/rmd) ;  Iii.  35,  9  {^dn  dlhc^a 
maruiah  Indra  some  ye.  tvdm  avardhann  aihavan  yams  te) ;  iii.  47,  3 
(jydn  dihafo  maruto  ye  tvd  'tm  ahm  Vfittram  adadhus  tulhyam.  ojah  I 
see  also  v.  4) ;  vi.  17,  11 ;  viii.  7,  24 ;  x.  73,  1,  2 ;  x.  113,  3  (w&e  te 
afra  marutah  saha  tmand  mo/rdhann  ugra  mahim&nam  indriyam).}''^ 

I'l  Indra  on  his  side  again  is  said  to  give  divine  power  to  the  other  gods  (vi,  36, 1 : 
yad  deveshu  dharayathah  asu/ryam). 

"*  Sayana  understands  devebhih  of  the  worshippers :  stotraih  stm/amand  devata 
ialmati  ikmiati,  "  a  deity  when  lauded  by  hymns  becomes  strong." 

113  Indra,  however,  in  a  dispute  with  the  Marut?  (to  which  I  shall  again  advert  in 
the  section  on  those  deities)  claims  to  have  slain  Vrittra  by  his  own  might,  i.  165,  8  : 
vadhim  vrittram  marutah  indriyena  svena  bhamena  tmisho  habhman  ;  compare  vii. 
21,  6,  where  the  same  thing  is  said  of  him  by  his  worshipper :  m)ena.  hi  VrittraSi 
iavasS  JaghMitha  na  iatrur  cmtam  vividad  yudha  te;  and'x,  138,  6:  eta  tya  te 
srutyani  kemld  yad,  ehafy  ehcm  ahrinor  ayajnaan.  Compare  viii.  79,  5 ;  viii.  86,  9 ; 
viii.  87,  3.  In  v.  30,  5,  all  the  gods  are  said  to  he  afraid  of  him  {qtas,  chid  Jndrad 
abhayoMta  devql}).    In  another  flace,  top  (viii.  7,  31),  the  Maruts  are  asked  "  what 


AS    EEPEESENTED    IN   THE   RIG-VEDA.  93 

With.  Brihaspati  as  his  ally  he  overthrew  all  the  enemies  of  the  gods 
who  assailed  him,  viii.  85,  15  (viio  adevir  ahhi  dehmrantir  Brihaspatina 
yv^a  Indra^  saiahe). 
Thus  exhilarated  and  encouraged,  ii.   15,  1  {trikadruhesha  apibat 

they  were  seeling  when  they  deserted  Indra,  and  who  could  then  trust  in  their 
friendshiji "  kad  ha  nunam  Jeadhapriyo  yadlndrat/i  aJahStana  |  ko  vah  sakMtve  ohate  \ 
Prof.  MiiUer,  Trans.  R.V.  i.  p.  68,  takes  kadhapriyah  as  tWo  words,  and  renders  the 
verse  thus  :  "  What  then  now  ?  where  is  there  a  friend,  now  that  you  hate  forsaken 
Indra  ?  Who  caiea  for  your  friendship?")  Compare  iv.  18, 11,  quoted  abo-ve  (p.  78  f ), 
where  India's  mother  complaiiis  that  the  gods  were  abandoning  her  sou,  and  where 
he  calls  upon  Yishnu  to  display  his  valour.  But  We  are  elsewhere,  viii.  85,  7,  told^ 
on  the  contrary,  that  all  the  other  gods  who  had  been  Indra's  allies,  terrified  by  the 
blast  of  Vrittra's  breath,  deserted  Indra  and  fled,  while  the  Marute,  it  must  be  sup- 
posed, stood  firm,  as  Ihdra  is  advised  to  make  friends  with  them,  and  then  he  should 
conquer  all  hostile  armies  {vrittrasya  tva  ivaSathSd  ishamanah  vUve  devali  ajuhw  ye 
sdhhSyah  \  Marndbhw  Indra,  sakhyam  te  aatu  atha  imah  viivah  pritanah  Jayasi), 
The  Commentator,  however  (perhaps  because  he  found  it  necessary,  for  dogmatical 
reasons,  to  reconcile  these  oonfiiotiftg  statements)  interprets  viii.  7,  31  differently,  and 
makes  it  mean,  "  When  did  you  desert  Indra  ?  i.e.  never,"  and  quotes  the  Aitareya 
Brahraana  iii.  20,  which  says  that  the  Maruts  did  not  abandon  him.  I  shall  cite  this 
passage  at  greater  length  than  Sayana  gives  it,  as  it  forms  a  comment  on  the  other 
text  just  adduced,  viii.  85,  7 :  Indro  i>ai  Vritram  hmiishycm  sarvSh  devatah  dbrmid 
emu  ma  upatishthad/wam  ttpa  ma  aknayadknHm"  iti  \  "tatha"  iti  \  tarn  hmiah- 
yantahadravan  |  so'ved"mami>ai  Jumishyantah  Sdrmamti  |  hcmta  iman bhishayai" 
iti  I  fan  ahhi  prasvasii  \  tasya  svasathad  ishamanah  vihe  devah  adravan  \  manito 
ha  enam  na]ajahuh  "prahara  bhagavo  jahi  vTrayasva"  ityeva  enam  etam  vacham 
vadmtah  npatishthoMa  |  tad  etad  rishih  paiyann  abh/yamwiaeha  {  .  .  .  .  iti  \  so  'ved 
"  ime  vai  Mia  me  sachivah  \  ime  ma  kSmayanta  |  hanta  iman  asminn  ukthe  abhajai  " 
iti  I  "  Indra,  when  about  to  slay  Vrittra,  said  to  all  the  gods  :  '  Follow  close  after 
me  and  support  me."  They  said, '  We  will.'  They  ran  forward  to  slay  Vrittra.  Vrittra 
considered :  '  They  are  running  forward  to  kill  me  :  come,  let  me  frighten  them.'  He 
accordingly  blew  a  blast  upon  them,  when  all  the  gods  ran  away  precipitately  from 
the  blast  of  his  breath.  But  the  Maruts  did  not  forsake  Indra.  They  stood  by  him, 
filing,  '  Smite,  0  god,  slay,  play  the  hero.'  Seeing  this,  the  jishi  uttered  the  words 
of  E.V.  viii.  85,  7.  Indra  understood :  '  These  Maruts  are  my  allies.  They  love  me. 
Come,  I  shall  give  them  a  share  in  this  uktha.' "  In  R.V.  i.  32, 14,  Indra  himself  is 
said  to  have  become  frightened  as  if  at  the  approach  of  an  av#nger(?),  after  he  had  slain 
Ahi,  and  to  have  crossed  ninety-nine  rivers,  and  the  aerial  spaces,  when  flying  like  a 
terrified  falcon  {aher  yatarain  ham,  apasyah  Indra  hridi  yat  te  jaghrmho  bhir  agaeh- 
hat  I  na/oa  eha  yad  navatim  cha  sravanfih  syeno  na  bhito  ataro  rajamsi).  Compare 
MUller's  Ano.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  547.  The  As'vins  and  Sarasvati  are  also  said  to  have 
assisted  Indra  (R.V.  x.  131,  4,  5  =Vaj.  Sanh.  x.  33,  34).  "  Ton  two,  A^vins,  lords 
of  splendour,  drinking  togetdef  the  delightful  draught  (of  soma),  protected  Indra  in 
his  achievments  against  the  Asura  Namuehi.  S.  As  parents  a  son,  so  ye  two,  As'vins, 
by  your  wisdom  and  your  energy,  delivered  thee,  0  Indra.  When  thou,  0  magnifl-' 
cent  (Indra),  didst  drink  the  delightful  draught  (of  soma),  Sarasvati  waited  upon 
thee  with  her  powers."  (3.  Ytmam  swammn  Aevina  Namuchm)  asure  sacjia  \  vipipana 


94  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

mtmya  my  a  made  AMm  In&ro  jagMna) ;  ii.  19,  2  {asya  manddno  madhvo 
vajrahastah  aMm  Indro  arnovritam  vi  vriichat) ;  vi.  47,  1,  2;  x.  112,  1 
{Indra  piba  pratiMmam  sufasya  .  .  .  .  |  harshasva  hantave  ^ura  ^atrun), — 
Indra  liurries  off,  escorted  by  troops  of  Maruts,  and  sometimes  attended 
by  his  faithful  comrade  Vishnu  (i.  22,   19,'^n3rasya  yvjyo  saiha) ; 

s'tibhaspati  Jndrcm iarmasu  avatam  |  5. putram  wapitaraAsvina  ub/Mlndraavathuh 
leavyair  damsandihih  \  yat  smramam  n  apihah  s'acklihih  sarasvafi  tva  maghtmann 
abMshnak.)  A  story  is  told  by  the  commentator  on  the  Vaj.  Sanh.  x.  33,  to  explain 
these  lines.  Namuchl,  it  seems,  was  a  friend  of  Indra ;  and  taking  advantage  of  his 
friend's  confidence,  he  drank  up  Indra's  strength  along  with  a  draught  of  wine  and 
soma.  Indra  then  told  the  As'vins  and  Sarasvati  that  Namuchi  had  drunk  up  his 
strength.  The  A^vins  and  Sarasvati,  in  consequence,  gave  Indra  a  thunderbolt  in 
the  form  of  foam,  with  which  he  smote  off  the  head  of  Namuchi.  The  AMns  then 
drank  the  soma,  mixed  with  blood  and  wine,  from  the  belly  of  Namuchi,  and  trans- 
ferred it  pure  to  Indra ;  and  by  transferring  it  they  delivered  Indra.  The  story  is 
taken  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  xii.  7,  3,  1  ff.  (p.  934  Weber's  ed.)  and  is  the 
original  version  of  those  adduced  by  me  elsewhere  (Vol.  IV.  222  and  420).  As  given 
in  the  Brahmana,  it  runs  thus  :  "  The  Asura  Namuchi  carried  off  Indra's  strength 
(indriya),  the  essence  of  food,  and  the  draught  of  soma,  together  with  wine.  He 
(Indra)  hastened  to  the  As'vins  and  Sarasvati,  and  said,  '  I  have  sworn  to  Namuchi,  I 
will-neither  slay  thee  by  day  or  by  night ;  neither  with  club,  nor  with  bow ;  neither 
with  the  palm  of  my  hand  {prithena),  nor  with  fist ;  neither  with  dry,  nor  with  moist ; 
and  he  has  carried  off  that  (strength,  etc.)  of  mine ;  will  ye  recover  it  for  me  ? '  They 
answered :  Let  us  have  a  share  in  it,  and  we  vrill  recover  it.'  Indra  replied :  '  It 
shall  be  common  to  us  all;  recover  it  therefore.'  Then  the  As'vins  and  Sarasvati 
anointed  the  thunderbolt  with  the  foam  of  the  waters,  saying,  '  It  is  neither  dry  nor 
moist."  With  that  Indra  struck  off  the  head  of  Namuchi,  when  night  was  passing 
into  dawn,  and  the  sun  had  not  yet  risen,  when  (as  he  said)  '  it  was  neither  day  nor 
night.'  ....  When  his  head  had  been  cut  off,  the  soma  remained  mixed  with  blood ; 
and  they  loathed  it.  But  having  perceived  this  draught  of  the  two  somas,  according 
to  the  text,  '  King  Soma,  when  poured  out,  is  nectar,'  they  with  this  made  the  other 
mixed  fluid  palatable,  and  swallowed  it "  {Indrasya  indriyam  annasya  rasam 
somasya  bhaksham  suraya  aawo  Nmmiehir  aharat,  so  'svinau  cha  sarasvatlm  cha 
wpadhmat  "  sepano  imi  Namuehaye  na  tva  diva  na  naktam  Jianani  na  dandena  na 
dhtm/Dcmd  na  prithena  mi  mushtina  na  Sushkena  na  ardrena  atha  Tne  ida/m  aharshtf  [ 
idam  me  aJihJrshatha  "  iti  \  te  'bruvann  "  astu  no  'trapy  atha  akarama  "  iti  |  "  saha 
na  etad  atha  aharata"  ity  abravid  iti  |  tav  as'vinau  cha  Sarasvati  cha  apamphenam 
vafram  asinehan  *^na  sushho  na  ardrdh**  iti  \  tena  Indro  Namucher  asurasya 
vyushtayam  ratrau  anudite  aditye  "  na  diva  na  naktam,"  iti  sirah  tidavasayat  |  .  .  . 
tasya  sir  shams  chhinne  lohita-misrah  somo  'tishthat  \  tasmad  abihhatsanta  \  te  etad 
andhasor  mpanam  apasyam  "somo  raja  'mritam  sutah"  iti  tena  enam  svadayitva 
atmann  adadhata  |  See  also  S'atap.  Br.  xii.  7,  1,  10,  and  xii.  8,  3,  1,  quoted  by  the 
Commentator  on  Vaj.  S.  19,  12,  where  it  is  said  that  "the  gods  instituted  a  remedial 
sacrifice ;  the  AWns  were  the  physicians,  and  so  also  was  Sarasvati  with  speech : 
ihey  imparted  strength  to  Indra  "  devah  yajnam  atanvata  bheshajam  bhishaja  's'vina  | 
vacha  sarasvati  bhishag  Indraya  indriyani  dadhatah).  See  also  verses  16,  18,  34, 
80-83,  88-90,  93,  96 ;  and  section  20,  66-69,  73-76,  90. 


AS  EEPRESENTEB  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  &5 

i.  85,  7"*  {Fishnur  yad  ha  dvad  vrisJiamm  madachyutam;  iy.  18,  11 
(quoted  above  p.  78  f.) ;  vi.  20,  2  {ahiih  yad  vrittram  apo  vcwrwdmsam 
hann  rijuhm  Vishnund  saohdnah) ;  viii.  89,  12  {Sakhe  Vishno  mtardm 
vikramasva  Byaur  dehi  lokaih  'oajrdya  vuhTcabhe  \  handva  vrittram  ityadf)."^ 
yii.  99,  4,  5  {Indra-vishnu  drimMtdh,  S'ambarasya  nava  puro  nmatim 
eha  ^natJ^iehtam),  to  encounter  the  hostile  powers  in  the  atmosphere 
'who  malevolently  shut  up  the  watery  treasures  in  the  clouds.  These 
demons  of  drought,  called  by  a  variety  of  names,  as  Vrittra,™  Ahi, 

"*  Benfey,  however,  refers  this  passage,  i.  85,  7,  not  to  Indra,  but  to  the  soma. 

™  Compare  i.  156,  5;  vi.  17,  11;  viii.  12,  27;  viii.  66,  10;  x.  113,  2,  in  which 
passages  (as  well  as  in  separate  hymns,  i.  155;  vi.  69),  Indra  and  Vishnu  are 
connected.  The  S'atapatha  Brahmana  has  the  following  story  ahout  Indra  and 
Vishnu,  T.  6,  6,  1  ff : — "  Formerly  Vrittra  had  within  him  all  the  Rik,  Tajush  and 
Saman  verses.  Indra  was  anxious  to  discharge  a  thunderbolt  at  him  (2),  and  said  to 
Vishnu :  '  I  will  shoot  a  thunderbolt  at  Vrittra  ;  follow  after  me.'  '  So  be  it,'  said 
Vishnu,  '  I  will  follow  thee ;  smite  him.'  Indra  then  aimed  a  thunderbolt  at  Vrittra, 
who  was  alarmed  at  it,  and  said  (3),  '  I  have  this  (source  of)  strength  ;  let  me  give 
it  up  to  thee ;  but  do  not  smite  me.'  So  he  gave  him  the  Tajush  verses.  Indra 
then  aimed  a  second  thunderbolt  at  him  (4),  when  he  said,  '  I  have  this  (source  of) 
strength;  let  me  give  it  up  to  thee;  but  do  not  smite  me.'  So  he  gave  the  Bik 
verses.  Indra  then  aimed  a  third  thunderbolt  at  him  (5),  when  he  said,  I  have  this 
(source  of)  strength ;  let  me  give  it  up  to  thee ;  but  do  not  smite  me.'     So  he  gave 

him  the  Saman  verses (7)  Indra  lifted  up  the  thunderbolt ;  Vishnu  followed 

him."  {Vrittre  ha  i>ai  idam  ogre  sarvam  asa  yad  rieho  yad  yajumshi  yat  samani  | 
tasmai  iTidro  vajram  prajihirshat  \  2.  sa  ha  Vishnum  wvacha  "  Vrittraya  vai 
vajram  praha/rish/ami  |  anu  ma  tishthasva"  iti  \  "tatha"  iti  ha  Vishnur  tmacha 
"  anu  tva  sthasye  prahara  "  iti  |  tasmai  Indro  vajram  vdya/yama  \  sa  %idyatad  vajrad 
Vrittro  hibhayanchakara  \  S,  sahatit>acha"astivaiidamvtryam  |  tad nute pray achh- 
ani  I  mS,  tu  me  praharsKir"  iti  \  tasmai  yajumshi  prayaehhat  \  tasmai  d/oiityam  vd- 
yayama  |  4.  sa  ha  twacha  "  asti  vai  idam  vJryam  tad  nu  te  prayaehhani  |  ma  tu  me 
praharsKir"  iti  |  tasmai  riehali  prayaehhat  \  tasmai  tritiyam  udyaySma  |  5.  [sa  ha 
weaeha]  "asti  vai  idam  vlryam  |  tad  nu  te  prayaehhmi  |  ma  tu  me praKarshir  "  iti  \ 
tasmai  samani  prayaehhat  [  7.  .  .  Indro  hi  vajram  udayaehhad  Vishnur  anvatish- 
fhata.)  There  is  a  similar  story  in  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  vi.  5,  1,  1.  Agni  is  in  several 
places  (i.  109,  5,  7,  8  ;  iii.  12,  4,  6  ;  x.  65,  2)  associated  with  Indra  as  a  thunderer,  a, 
destroyer  of  Vyittra,  and  an  overthrower  of  cities.  Varuna,  too,  is  in  one  place 
(iv.  41,  4)  joined  with  Indra  as  a  thunderer. 

176  Vrittra's  mother  Danu  also  was,  along  with  her  son,  slain  by  Indra,  and  when 
slaughtered  lay  over  him,  like  a  cow  over  her  calf  (i.  32,  9,  nJehdvayah  abhavad  Vrittra- 
putra  Indro  asyah  ania  vadha/r  jaMdra  \  uttara  sur  adka/rah  puttrah  asid  Danuh  s'aye 
sahavatsa  na  dhenuh).  Seven  Danus  are  mentioned  in  R.V.  x.  120,  6  ( =Nirukta,  xi. 
21)  a  darshate  s'avasa  sapta  Danun  |  "He  cleaves  by  his  force  the  seven  Danus." 
Roth,  in  his  illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  150,  remarks  on  this  passage  :  "  Seven  is 
an  indefinite  number  applied  to  the  demons  of  the  air  and  clouds,  who  appear  under 
the  manifold  names  of  Namuchi,  Kuyava,  S'ushna,  S'ambara,  Varchin,  etc.,  the 
Danus  or  Danavas,  to  whom  in  i.  32,  9,  a  mother  called  Danu  is  assigned."    The 


96  THE   INDIAJiT  GODS   GENERALLr, 

S'ushna,  Nainuchi,  Pipru,  S'ambara,  Urana,  etc.,  etc.  (i.  121,  9,  10 ; 
ii.  14,  4  ff. ;  viii.  32,  2,  3),  armed,  on  their  side  also,  with  every 
variety  of  celestial  artillery  (i.  32,  13,  na  asmai  vidyud  na  tanyatuh 
sishedha  na  yam  mihrnn  akvtad  hradUnlm  cha),'"''  attempt,  but  in  vain, 
to  resist  th6  onset  of  the  gods.'^'  Heaven  and  earth  quaie  with 
afWght  at  the  crash  of  Indra's  thunder,  i.  80,  11  (»«  chit  tava  man- 
ycme  vepete  Ihiyasa  mahi  \  ydd  Indra  vty'rinn  djasd  Vrittram  mwrutvdn, 
cmadMh  \  14.  abhishtarie  te  adrivo  yat  sthdh  j'dgat  cha  rejate);  ii.  11,  9 
{^mejetam  rodan  hldyane  hcmihradato  vrishno  asya  vajrat  \  10.  wroraxtd 
vrishno  asya  v(yrah) ;  vi.  17,  9  {adha  dyaui  ehit  te  apa  sa  nu  vcyrdd  dmitq, 
'namad  hMyasa  svasya  manyoh),  and  even  Tvashtri  himself,  who  forged 
the  bolts,  trembles  at  the  manifestation  of  their  wielder's  anger,  i.  80, 
14  {Tvashta  chit  tava  manyave  Indra  vevijyate  Ihiya).  The  enemies  of 
Indra  are  speedily  pierced  and  shattered  by  the  discharge  of  his  iron 
shafts,  i.  32,  5  {ahan  Vrittram  vrittrataram  vyamsam  Indro  vcyrena  mdhata 
vadhena  \  shwndh&msiva  iulisena  vivrikna  ahih  sayate  tipaprii:  prithivyah), 
i.  57,  6;  i.  61,  10;  ii.  19,  3;  x.  89,  7  {jaghdna  Vrittram  svadhitir 
vaneva),  and  even  by  their  very  sound,  vi.  27,  4  {etat  iyat  te  indriyam 
acheti  yenavadhlr  va/raiikhasya  ieshah  \  vcyrasya  yat  te  nihatasya  sushmdt 
svandt  chid  Indra  paramo  daddra);  viii.  6,  13  {yad  asya  Wianywr  adhva- 
nid  vi  vrittram  parvaso  rujan  |  apah  samudram  air  ay  at).  The  waters, 
released  from  their  imprisonment,  descend  in  torrents  to  the  earth,  fill 
all  the  rivers,  and  roll  along  to  the  ocean,  i.  32,  2  (vdh-dh  iva  dhenavah 
syandamdndh  anjah  samudram  ava  jagmwr  dpah  \  12.  a/edsrijah  swrttme 
sapta  sindhun);  i.  57,  6;  i.  61,  10;  i.  103,  2  (vty'rena  hatvd  nir  apah 
sasarja);  ii.  11,  2;  ii.  12,  12;  ii.  14,  2;  ii.  15,  3  (vafrena  Tchdni 
atrinad' nadlndm) ;  ii.  19,  3  {Indro  arno  apdm  ^rairayad  Ahihd  'chha 
samudram) ;  iii.  32,  6 ;  iv.  17,  1 ;  v.  32,  1  {adardar  utsam  asrijo  vi 
Tthdni  tvam  arnavdn  hadhadhandn  aramndh  \  mahdntam  Indra  parvatani 
vi  yad  vah  srijo  vi  dhdrdh  ava  Ddna/oam  lian) ;  vi.  30,  4 ;  viii.  65,  3 ; 

S'atap.  Br.  i.  6,  4,  18,  says  that  Indra  is  the  sun  and  Vrittrsi  the  moon  [fad  vai  esha 
eva  Indro  yah  esha  tapati  |  atha  esha  eva  vrittro  yat  ehamdramalf). 

"'  Sayana  understands  this  line  of  the  lightnings,  etc.,  fashioned  by  Vrittra's 
magical  power  to  destroy  Indra  {Indraik  nisheddhum  Vrittro  yam  mdyud-adm  mayatfi 
nirmitavan  te  sarve  'py  enam  nisheddhmn  asajctah). 

"8  Vrittra  is  said,  in  ii.  30,  3  (according  to  Sayana's  explanation  of  the  line),  to 
have  rushed  upon  Indra,  clothed  in  a  cloud,  hut  to  have  been  OTercome  {miham 
vasanali  v/pa  hi  1m  adudrot). 


INDEA'S   COMBATS   VITH   THE   CLOUD   DEMONS.  97 

X.  133,  2.     Tte  gloom  which  had  overspread  the  sky  is  dispersed,  and 
the  sun  is  restored  to  his  position  in  the  heavens  (i.  32,  4 ;  i.  51,  4, 
Vrittra&  yad  Indra  favosa,  avadhir  Ahim  ad  it  suryafh  divi  arohayo 
drUe) ;  ™  i.  52,  8  {ayachhathah  hahvor  vajram  ayasam  adharayo  divi  a 
suryafh  driie) ;  ii.  19,  3.     Constant  allusions  to  these  elemental  con- 
flicts occur  in  nearly  every  part  of  the  Eig-veda  (i.  4,  8 ;  i.  32,  1  ff. ; 
i.  52,  2  ff. ;  i.,  54,  4  ff. ;  i.  80,  Iff.;  i.  103,  2  ff. ;  ii.  11,  5  ff. ;  v.  32, 
Iff.;  X.  89,  7;  x.  113,  6),  and  the  descriptions  are  sometimes  em- 
bellished with  a  certain  variety  of  imagery.     The  clouds  are  repre- 
sented as  mountains,  or  as  cities  or  fortresses  of  the  Asuras,  ii.  14,  6 
{yah  satam  S'amharasya  puro  bibheda  aSmana  iva  purvih);  viii.  17,  14 
(bhetta  purafh  iaivatinam) ;  viii.  87,  6  {tvam  hi  iasvatindm  Indra  dartta 
pwam  asi),  which  are  variously  characterized  as  the  autumnal  {pwah 
iaradlh,  i.  131,  4 ;  vi.  20,  10),  the  moving  {puram  oharishnvam,  viii.  1, 
28),  and  the  iron  {ayaslh,  ii.  20,  8)  or  stone-built  (iv.  30,  20,  iatam 
a^manmaymdm  pwram  Indro  vyasyat  \  Divodasaya  da^ushe) ''°  cities  of 
the  Asuras  (or  atmospheric  demons),  which  Indra  overthrows  (i.  61,5; 
i.  63,  7;  i.  103,  3;  i.  130,  7;  i.  174,  8;  ii.  19,  6;  ii.  20,  7;  iii.  12, 
6;   iv.  26,  3;   iv.  30,  13;  viii.  82,  2;  x.  89,  7).    He  casts  down  his 
enemies  when  he  discovers  them  on  the  aerial  mountains  (i.  32,  2, 
ahann  Ahim  po/rvaU  iiiriydnam) ;   i.  130,  7  {Atithigvdya  S'amharam 
girer  ugro  miati/rat);  ii.  12,  11  {Tah  S'ambaram  parvateshu  kshiyantaih 
cfiatvdrimsyam,  sa/radi  anvavindat) ;  iv.  30,  14  (uta  ddsam  kaulitarant 
brihatah  parvatad  adhi  \  mahann  Indrah  S'ambaram) ;   vi.  26,  5 ;  or 
hurls  them  back  when  they  attempt  to  scale  the  heavens  (ii.  12,  12 
yo  Rauhinam  asphwrad vajra-bahwr  Ayam  drohantam);  viii.  14,  14  (mdyd- 
bhir  utsisripsatah  Indro  dyam  drv/rukshatah  \  ava  dasyun  adhunuthah). 
One  of  them  he  crushes  under  his  foot,  1,  51,  6  {Arbudam  ni  kramih 
padd),  or  pierces  with  ice,  viii.  32,  26  (himena  ewidhyad  Arbudam). 
He  strikes  off  the  head  of  Namuchi  with  the  foam  of  the  waters,'" 

^"  Sayana  understands  the  last  words  to  mean  that  Indra  freed  the  sun  wHch  had 
been  hidden  by  Vfittra  {Vrittrena  avritcm  mryam  tasmad  vrittrad  amumuchah).  In 
1.  32,  4,  and  ii.  19,  3,  Indra  is  said  to  have  generated  the  sun ;  which  may  refer  to 
an  actual  creation,  and  not  to  a  mere  bringing  into  view.  In  x.  89,  2,  Indra  seems 
to  be  identified  with  the  sun  [sa  suryah),  and  to  have  destroyed  the  black  darkness  by 
his  light  (krishna  tamam  si  tvishyajaghana), 

180  Possibly  these  may  be  ordinary  terrestrial  cities;  and  the  same  may  be  the  case 
in  regard  to  the  cities  alluded  to  in  some  of  the  texts  next  to  be  cited. 

181  See  above,  in  a  preceding  note. 

7 


98  INDEA'S  COMBATS   "WITH  THE   CLOUD   DEMONS. 

viii.  14,  13  [wpamphemna  nmmteheh  iirah  Inira  uimmrtayaK).  One  of 
his  opponents,  Tirana,  is  described  as  a  monster,  witli  ninety-nine  arms, 
ii.  14,  4  {yah  Uramm  jaghana  ncwa  chaMvd^isam  na/vatim  eJia  lahun) ; 
and  another  as  having  three  heads  and  six  eyes,  x.  99,  6  {sa  id  ddsam 
tmiiravam  patir  dan  shalahham  triiirshamm  damanyat). 

The  growth  of  much  of  the  imagery  thus  described  is  perfectly 
natural,  and  easily  intelligible,  particularly  to  persons  Trho  have  lived 
in  India,  and  witnessed  the  phenomena  of  the  seasons  in  that  country. 
At  the  close  of  the  long  hot  weather,  when  every  one  is  longing  for 
rain  to  moisten  the  earth  and  cool  the  atmosphere,  it  is  often  extremely 
tantalizing  to  see  the  clouds  collecting  and  floating  across  the  sky  day 
after  day  without  discharging  their  contents.^*'  And  in  the  early  ages 
■when  the  Vedic  hymns  were  composed,  it  was  an  idea  quite  in  conso- 
nance with  the  other  general  conceptions  which  their  authors  enter- 
tained, to  imagine  that  some  malignant  influence  was  at  ■work  in  the 
atmosphere  to  prevent  the  fall  of  the  showers,  of  which  their  parched . 
fields  stood  so  much  in  need.  It  ■was  but  a  step  further  to  personify 
both  this  hostile  power  and  the  beneficent  agency  by  which  it  was  at 
length  overcome.  Indra  is  thus  at  once  a  terrible  warrior  and  a 
gracious  friend,  a  god  whose  shafts  deal  destruction  to  his  enemies, 
■while  they  bring  deliverance  and  prosperity  to  his  worshippers.  The 
phenomena  of  thunder  and  lightning  almost  inevitably  suggest  the 
idea  of  a  conflict  between  opposing  forces ;  even  we  ourselves,  in  our 
more  prosaic  age,  often  speak  of  the  war  or  strife  of  the  elements.  The 
other  appearances  of  the  sky,  too,  would  aflford  abundant  materials  for 
poetical  imagery.  The  worshipper  would  at  one  time  transform  the 
fantastic  shapes  of  the  clouds  into  the  chariots  '*'  and  horses  of  his  god, 
and  at  another  time  would  seem  to  perceive  in  their  piled-up  masses 
the  cities  and  castles  which  he  -was  advancing  to  overthrow. 

(5)  Indrds  greatness. 

In  numerous  places  of  the  Eig-veda,  the  highest  divine  functions 
and  attributes  are  ascribed  to  Indra.     A  collection  of  the  most  striking 

18J  In  yiii.  6,  1,  Indra  is  compared  to,  and  therefore  distinguished  from,  Paijanya, 
the  rain-god  {^aHan  Xndro  yah  ojasa  Fwrja/n/yo  vrishtinmn  iva  |  atomair  Vatsasya 
vmridhe).    In  viii.  82,  1,  4,  he  is  identified  with  Surya,  the  Sun. 

193  Compare  Psalm  104,  3 ;  Isaiah  19,  1 ;  Daniel  7,  13 ;  Matth.  24,  30 ;  26,  64 ; 
Habakkuk  3,  8 ;  Br^al,  Hercule  et  Cacus,  171  f. 


INDEA'S   GREATNESS.  99 

of  these  passages  will  be  found  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  -work,  pp.  85-94. 
I  subjoin  some  additional  texts : 

i.  61,  14,  Asi/a  id  «  bMyd  gvra^ai  cha  drilh&h  dyava  cha  Ihuma 
janushas  tujete  |  "  Through  fear  of  him  when  he  is  born,  the  stable 
mountains,  and  heaven  and  earth,  are  agitated." 

i.  100,  1 maho  dwah  prithivyds  eha  samrat  \    ....    15.  Na 

yasya  devah  devatd  na  marttah  dpai  chana  iwoaso  antam  dpulj,  \  "  The 
monarch  of  the  great  heaven  and  of  the  earth  ....  15.  of  whose  might 
neither  gods  by  their  divine  insight,  nor  men,  nor  waters  have  attained 
the  limit."  "^ 

i.  101,  5.  Yo  visvasya  jagatah  pranatag  patih  \  "  He  (Indra)  who  is 
the  lord  of  the  whole  moving  and  breathing  (world),"  etc. 

i.  165,  9.  Anuttam  a  te  maghmwn  nahir  nu  na  tmvdn  aati  devatd 
viddnah  |  najdyamdno  nasate  na  jdio  ydni  Tcarishyd  krinuM  pravriddha  |. 
"There  is  nothing  unconquered  by  thee  :  no  one  like  thee  is  known 
among  the  gods.  ITo  one  to  be  bom,  or  yet  born,  can  rival  thee.  Do, 
great  god,  whatever  thou  wiliest  do."    (Compare  iv.  18,  4.) 

i.  173,  6.  Fra  yad  itthd  mahind  nribhyo  asti  aramrodasi  kaikshye  na 
asmai  \  "  Since  Indra  is  so  superior  to  men,  heaven  and  earth  do  not 
8u£B.ce  for  his  girdle,"  etc. 

ii.  17,  5.  Sa  prdohindn  parvatan  drimhad  ojasd-  adha/rdchUnam  akarod 
apdm  apah  \  adhdrayat  prithwlm  msvadhdyasam  astabJindd  mdyayd 
dydm  avoir  asah  |  "He  has  settled  the  ancient  mountains  by  his  might; 
he  has  directed  downwards  the  action  of  the  waters.  He  has  supported 
the  earth,  the  universal  nurse.  By  his  skill  he  has  propped  up  the 
sky  from  falling." 

iii.  30,  5  (quoted  above,  p.  30).  "  When  thou,  0  Maghavan,  didst 
grasp  even  these  two  boundless  worlds,  they  were  but  a  handful  to 
thee."  '^ 

iii.  34,  2.  Indra  kahitlndm  asi  mdnushindm  visdm  daimnam  asi  pur- 
vaydvd  \  "Indra,  thou  art  the  leader  of  the  human  races,  and  of  the 
divine  people.  7.  Tudhendro  mahnd  vwri/oak  ehakdra  devehhyah  \  "  In 
battle  and  by  his  power  he  has  acquired  wealth  for  the  gods." 

iii.  46,  2.  £ko  viivasya  hhuvanasya  rdjd  \  3.  Pra  mdtrdlMh  ririohe 
roohamdnah  pra  devebhir  visvato  apratitah  \  pra  m<ymand  divah  Indrah 

'8*  See  Benfey's  Translation  in  Orient  and  Occident  ii.  618- 
165  Compare  Isaiah  xl,  12. 


100  INDEA'S  GREATNESS. 

prithivyah  pra  wor  maho  antariksMd  ryishi  \   "  Thou,  who  alone  art 

the  king  of  the  whole  ■world/  etc 3.    India  luminous,  has 

surpassed  all  measures ;  in  every  respect  unequalled,  he  has  surpassed 
the  gods.;  the  impetuous  deity  has  surpassed  in  greatness  the  heaven 
and  the  earth,  and  the  hroad  and  vast  atmosphere." 

iv,  17,  2.  Tava  tvisho  janiman  rej'dta  Di/cmh  rejad  Bhumir  hMyasd 
svasya  mmvyoh  \  "At  the  birth  of  thee,  the  glorious  one,  the  heaven 
trembled,  and  the  earth,  through  fear  of  thy  wrath,"  etc.  (Compare 
iv.  22,  3,  4). 

iv.  18,  4.  NoMnu  asya pratimdnam,  asti antar  jateshu uta ye  jamitvdh  \ 
"He  has  no  parallel  among  those  bom  or  who  are  to  be  bom." 

V.  30,  5.  Paro  yat  tvam  pwramah  aJanisJithah  pwrmati  krutyam  ndma 
hihhrat  \  atas  chid  Indrad  abhayanta  devah  \  "When  thou  wert  bom, 
the  highest  and  supreme,  bearing  a  name  renowned  afar,  the  gods  were 
then  afraid  of  Indra,"  etc. 

V.  42,  6.  Marietvato  apratltasya  jishnar  (yv/ryatah  pro,  Iramama  hri- 
tani  i  na  te  purve  maghman  na  aparaso  na  vlryarh  nutanah  kai  ohana 
dpa  I  "  Let  us  declare  the  deeds  of  the  unrivalled,  victorious,  undecay- 
ing  god,  who  is  attended  by  the  Maruts.  Neither  have  former  nor 
later  (beings),  nor  has  any  recent  (being)  attained  to  thy  valour."  ™ 

vi.  24,  8.  Ifa  vilme  namate  na  sthwaya  na  ^ardhate  dasyiy'utdya 
stavan  \  ajrdh  Indrasya  gwa/yas  chid  rishidh  gamhhire  chid  Ihcmati 
gddham  asmai  \  ""When  lauded,  he  does  not  bow  before  the  strong, 
nor  the  firm,  nor  the  presumptuous,  impelled  by  the  Dasyu.  Moun- 
tains, though  lofty,  are  plains  to  Indra,  and  in  that  which  is  deep  he 
finds  a  bottom."     Compare  viii.  82,  10. 

vi.  30,  1,  quoted  above,  p.  30  f.  "  Indra  has  surpassed  the  heaven  and 
the  earth.  The  two  worlds  are  but  equal  to  the  half  of  him."  (Comp. 
X.  119,  7.) 

■vi.  30,  6.  Raja  'bhovo  jagatai  eharshanindm  sdkam  suryam  janayan 
dydm  ushdsam  \  "Thou  hast  become  the  king  of  things  moving,  and  of 
men,  generating  at  once  the  Sun,  the  Heaven,  the  Dawn."  (Compare 
iii.  49,  4.) 

viii.  6,  15.  Na  dydvah  Indram  qfasd  na  aniarihhdni  vcy'rimm  \  na 

186  In  viii.  70  3,  it  is  said  that  Indra,  like  a  terrific  bull,  cannot  be  stopped  either 
by  gods  or  men  when  he  wishes  to  be  generous  (»» tva  sura  devah  na  marttaso  ditsan- 
tam  I  bhimcm  na  gam  !  ~ 


INDRA'S   GREATNESS.  101 

vi  vyaehmta  Ihumayah  \    "Neither  heavens,  nor  atmospheres,  nor 
earths,  have  equalled  Indra  the  thunderer  in  might." 

viii.  12,  30.  Yada  suryam,  amum  dwi  auhram  jyoti/r  adharayah  \  ad 
it  te  viiva  hJiwanani  yemire  |  ""When  thou  (Indra)  didst  place  yonder 
sun  a  brilliant  light  in  the  sky,  then  all  worlds  submitted  to  thee." 
(Compare  vi.  30,  2.) 

viii.  14,  9.  Indrem  rochana  dvco  drilhani  drimhiiani  cha  \  athirani 
na  pardmde  \  "By  Indra  the  lights  of  the  sky  have  been  fixed  and 
established.     Those  which  are  established  he  has  not  removed." 

viii.  15,  2.  Yasya  dviharliaso  Irihat  mho  dadhdra  rodasl  \  gwm  ajrdn 
upah  svar  vrishatvand  \  "Of  which  mighty  god  the  great  vigour  sup- 
ported the  two  worlds,  the  mountains,  plains,  waters,  and  heavens." 

viii.  51.  7.  Visve  te  Indra  viryam  devdh  anu  kratum  daduh  \  "  All 
the  gods,  Indra,  yield  to  thee  in  vigour  and  strength." 

viii.  78,  2.  Devas  te  Indra  salchyaya  yemire  \  "  The  gods,  o  Indra, 
sought  after  thy  friendship."    (Compare  viii.  87,  3.) 

viii.  82,  5.  Tad  m  prmriddha  mtpate  "na  marai"  iti  manyase  \ 
uto  tat  satyam  it  tava  \  "  That  which  thou,  o  powerful  lord  of  the 
good,  expectest,  'I  shall  not  die,'  proves  true."  (Compare  x.  86,  11, 
quoted  above,  p.  82.) 

viii.  85,  4.  Manye  tvd  yayniyam  yajniydndm  manye  tvd  ehyavanam 
achyutdnam  |  manye  tvd  satvamdm  Indra  Tcetum  manye  tva  vrishabham 
cha/rshamndm  \  ....  6.  Tam  u  shtamama  yah  ima  jajdna  viSvd  j'dtdni 
ma/rani  asmdt  |  .  .  .  .  9.  Anayudhdso  asiirdh  adevds  ohakrena  tan  apa 
vapa  rytsMn  |  "I  regard  thee,  Indra,  as  the  most  adorable  of  the 
adorable,  the  caster  down  of  the  unshaken, '°'  the  most  distinguished 

of  living  things,  the  chief  of  beings 6.  Let  us  praise  this  Indra 

who  produced  these  (worlds) :  all  beings  are  inferior  (or  subsequent)  to 

him 9.  The  Asuras  are  without  weapons  and  are  no   gods : 

sweep  them  away  with  thy  wheel."  (Compare  vi.  18,  10),  where  he  is 
said  to  consume  the  Eakshases  with  his  bolt  as  fire  a  dry  forest: 
Agnir  na  sushham  vanam  Indra  hetl  rahho  ni  dhahhi  aianir  na  bhimd). 

viii.  86,  14.  Tvad  vihdni  Ihuvandni  vcy'rin  dyavd  rejete  prithivi  aha 
hhishd  I  "AH  worlds,  thunderer,  both  heaven  and  earth,  tremble 
through  fear  of  thee." 

X.  44,  8.  Girin  qjran  rejamdndn  adhdrayad  Bya/uh  hra/ndad  anta- 
181  The  Manits  are  said  to  have  tlie  same  power  (il  64,  3). 


102  INDEA'S    GREATNESS. 

rikshani  kopayat  |  "He  sustained  the  quaking  mountains  and  plains  : 
the  sky  resounded;  he  shook  the  atmosphere,"  etc.  (Compare  ii.  12,  2.) 

X.  54,  1.  Tdm  su  ie  kirttim  maghavan  mahitva  yat  tvd  hhlte  rodasl 
ahoayetam  \  pravo  devdn  ....  2.  Yad  acharas  tanvd  vavridhdm  haldni 
Tndra  prabruvdno  janeshu  \  mdyd  it  sd  te  yani  yuddhdni  dhur  na  adya 
iatrwrn  na  pwrd  vwitse  |  3.  Kah  u  nu  te  mahimcmah  samasya  asmat 
purve  rishayo  antam  dpuh  \  yad  mdtaram  cha  pitaram  cha  sdkam  ajana- 
yathds  tanvdh  svdydh  I  6.  Yo  adadhdj  jyotisM  jyotvr  antar  yo  asryad 
madhund  sam  madhuni  \  "  (I  celebrate),  Maghavan,  thy  glory  in  that 
through  thy  greatness  the  terrified  -worlds  invoked  thee.     Thou  didst 

deliver  the  gods,  etc 2.  When  thou  didst  march  on  increasing 

in  thy  magnitude,  proclaiming  thy  strength  amongst  men,  thy  combats 
which  they  describe  were  (the  proofs  of)  thy  power ;  neither  now  nor 
before  dost  thou  know  of  any  enemy.  3.  Which  of  aU.  the  seers  before 
us  have  found  out  the  end  of  aU  thy  greatness  ?  seeing  that  thou  didst 
produce  at  once  the  father  and  the  mother  (heaven  and  earth)^^'  from 
thine  own  body.  6.  He  placed  light  in  light,  and  imparted  to  sweet 
things  their  sweetness." 

X.  89,  4.  Yo  aksheneva  chakriyd  iaohibhir  vishvak  tastambha  prithivim 
uta  dyam  \  10.  Indro  divah  Indrah  lie  prithivydh  Indro  apdn  Indrah  it 
parvatdndm  \  "  (Indra)  who  by  his  powers  holds  asunder  Heaven  and 
Earth,  as  the  two  wheels  of  a  chariot  are  kept  apart  by  the  axle. 
Indra  rules  over  the  sky,  Indra  rules  over  the  earth,  Indra  rules 
over  the  waters,  and  Indra  rules  over  the  mountains,"  etc. 

X.  102,  12.  Tvath  visvasya  jagatai  chakshur  Indrdsi  ehakshushah  \ 
"  Thou,  Indra,  art  the  eye  of  aU  moving  things  that  see." 

X.  138,  6.  Mdsdm  vidhdnam,  adadhdh  adhi  dyami  tvayd  vibhinnam 
bharati  pradhim  pitd  \  "Thou  (Indra)  hast  ordained  the  (course  of  the) 
months  in  the  heaven  :  the  father  (the  sky)  has  a  circumference  divided 
by  thee." 

In  some  places  (iv.  19,  2  ;  iv.  21,  10)  Indra  is  called  samrdt,  or  uni- 
versal monarch,  in  other  places  (iii.  46,  1 ;  ui.  49,  2  ;  vii.  82,  2  ;  viii. 
12,  14)  svardt,  a  self-dependent  sovereign.  In  viii.  6,  41,  he  is 
called  "  an  ancient  rishi,  ruling  alone  by  his  might "  {rishir  hi  pur- 
vwj&h  asi  ehah  lidnah  ojasd).  In  i.  174,  1 ;  viii.  79,  6,  he  is  designated 
as  aswra,  "  the  divine." 

"'  See  above  p.  30. 


INDRA'S   RELATIONS   "WITH   HIS  "WORSHIPPERS.  103 

The  preceding  passages  afford  a  fair  specimen  of  the  language  in 
which  Indra  is  most  commonly  celebrated  in  the  hymns.  It  will  be 
observed  that  the  attributes  which  are  ascribed  to  him  are  chiefly  those 
of  physical  superiority,  and  of  dominion  over  the  external  world.  In 
fact  he  is  not  generally  represented  as  possessing  the  spiritual  elevation 
and  moral  grandeur  with  which  Yaruna  is  so  often  invested. 

(6)  Ind/rcHs  relations  with  his  worshippers. 

There  are,  however,  many  passages  in  which  Indra' s  close  relations 
with  his  worshippers  are  described,  and  a  few  in  which  an  ethical 
character  is  attributed  to  him.  Faith  in  him  is  confessed,  or  enjoined 
in  the  following  texts ; 

i.  55,  6.  Adha  chana  irad  dadhati  tvishimate  Indraya  vcy'ram,  nigha- 
nighnate  vadham  \  "  Men  have  faith  in  the  fiery  Indra  when  he  hurls 
again  and  again  his  destroying  thunderbolt." 

i.  102,  2.  Asme  surga-ehandramasd  abhichakshe  kraddhe  ham  Indra 
cha/rato  vita/rturam  \  "  Sun  and  moon  move  alternately,  o  Indra,  that 
we  may  behold,  and  have  faith." 

i.  103,  5.  Tad  asya  idam  paiyata  hhuri  pushtam  krad  Ind/rasya  dkat- 
tana  viryaya  |  "  Behold  this  his  great  abundance,  and  have  faith  in  the 
prowess  of  Indra." 

i.  104,  6.  Ma  antardm  hhujam  a  ririsho  nah  iraddhitam  te  mahate 
indriyaya  \  7.  Adha  manye  irat  te  asmai  adhayi  vrisha  chodasva  mahate 
dhanaya  \  "  6.  Do  not  injure  our  future  production :  we  have  put 
faith  in  thy  great  power.  7.  I  surely  believe  that  faith  has  been 
reposed  in  thee  :  vigorous  god,  advance  us  to  great  wealth." 

i.  108,  6.  Yad  ahravam  prathamafh  mm  vrinano  ayam  somo  aswrair 
no  mhanyah  \  tarn  satydm  iraddham  abhi  a  hi  ydtam  atha  somasya  piba- 
tam  sutasya  |  "  Since  I  said  at  first,  when  supplicating  you  twain 
(Indra  and  Agni)  '  this  soma  is  to  be  offered  by  us  for "'  the  divine 
beings  ; '  come  now,  in  consideration  of  this  true  faith,  and  drink  the 
poured-out  soma." 

In  vi.  28,  5,  the  poet  says :  Imdh  yah  gdvah  sa  jandsah  Indrah 
ichhdmi  id  hridd  manasd  ehid  Indram  \  "  These  cows,  o  men,  are 
Indra  :  I  desire  Indra  with  my  heart  and  soul." 

In  ix.  113,  2,  truth,  faith,  and  austere-fervour  are  enjoined  on  the 
189  See  Benfey's  Translation  and  note,  Orient  und  Occident,  iii.  112. 


104  INDEA'S   EELATIONS  WITH  HIS  ■WORSHIPPERS. 

worshipper :  ritcmahna  satyena  kraddhofya  twpasd  sufah  Indraya  Indo 
parisrma  \  "  Pomed  out  mtli  holy  words,  witli  trutt,  with  faith,  with 
austere-fervour,  o  Soma,  flow  for  Indra." 

X.  160,  3.  Yah  u^ata  mcmasa  somam  asmai  Borvahridd  devaMmah 
sumti  I  na  gah  Indras  tasya  pwradaddti  ityadi  \  "Indra  does  not 
abandon  the  cattle  of  the  man  who  loves  the  gods,  and  with  a  longing 
soul  and  with  aU  his  heart  pours  out  libations  of  soma-juioe." 

And  the  reality  of  his  existence  and  power  is  asserted  in  opposition 
to  faithless  or  sceptical  doubts  in  the  following : 

ii.  12,  5.  Tarn  sma  prichantt  kuha  seti  ghoram  uta  im  ahmr  na  esho 
asti  iti  enam  \  so  aryah  pushtir  vijah  iva  "°  dminati  srad  asmai  dkatta 
sa  jandsah  Indrah  \  "That  dreadful  being,  of  whom  they  ask  'where 
is  he,'  and  of  whom  they  say  '  he  is  not '  [or,  '  this  is  not  he '],  he 
carries  away  the  wealth  of  the  foe,  as  a  gamester  the  stakes ;  put  feith 
in  him,  he,  o  men,  is  Indra." 

vi.  18,  3,  Asti  svid  nu  wry  am  tat  te  Indra  na  svid  asti  tad  rituthd  vi 
vochah  I  4.  Sad  id  hi  te  iuvijdtasya  manye  sahah  sahishtha  \  "3.  Does 
that  prowess  belong  to  thee,  Indra,  or  does  it  not  ?  tell  us  truly.  4 . 
Thy  strength,  o  thou  strongest  of  beings,  who  art  great  by  nature,  is 
really  existing." 

viii.  89,  3.  Fra  su  stomam  hharata  vdjayantah  Indrdya  satyam  yadi 
satyam  asti  \  "na  Indro  asti"  iti  nemah  «  tvah  dha  kah  im  dada/rsa  Team, 
ahhi  stavdma  \  4.  ay  am  asmi  jaritah  pakya  meha  viivd  jdtdni  ahhi  asmi 
mahnd  \  "3.  Present  to  Indra  a  hymn  soliciting  food,  a  true  hymn,  if 
he  truly  exists.  '  Indra  does  not  exist,'  says  some  one ;  '  who  has  seen 
him  ?  whom  shall  we  praise  ?'  4.  'I  am  here,  p  worshipper '  (exclaims 
Indra) ;  '  behold  me  here.     I  surpass  all  creatures  in  greatness.'  " 

Indra  is  the  friend,  and  even  the  brother,  of  his  present  worshippers, 
as  he  was  the  friend  of  their  forefathers,  ii.  18,  3  ;  it.  20,  3 ;  iii.  53,  5 
(a  cha  ydhi  Indra  hhrdtah,  "come,  brother  Indra") ;  iv.  17,  18 ;  iv.  23, 
6;  vi.  18,  {prafnam  sakhycm,  "ancient  friendship");  vi.  21,  5  {idd 
hi  te  vevishatah  purdjdh  pratndsah  dsuh  pwruhrit  sakhdyah,  "  for  now 
men  resort  to  thee  continually,  and  the  ancients  bom  of  old  were  thy 
friends")"';    8   {tvam  hi  dpih  pradivi  pitrlndm  iahad  halhutha   | 

190  The  words  vijah  iva  are  explained  by  Sayana  as  =  ud/oejakah  eva  son,  "  being  a 
vexer." 

i9>  See  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  221.  The  passage  is  differently  rendered  by 
Benfey,  Gloss,  to  S.  V.  p.  76,  col.  1. 


INDEA'S   EELATIONS    WITH  HIS  "WOESHIPPERS.  105 

"Tot  thou  vast  always  a  friend  of  our  fathers");  vi.  45,  1,  7; 
vii.  21,  9;  viii.  4,  7;  viii.  45,  1  S.,  16,  18;  viii.  50,  11;  viii.  57, 
11  {Tasya  te  svadu  sahhyam  sva&ol  pranitih  \  "Thou  whose  friend- 
ship is  sweet  and  sweet  thy  guidance");  viii.  81,  33;  viii.  82,  3; 
viii.  86,  7  ;  viii.  89,  2  ;  x.  22,  If.;  x.  23,  7  {ma  kir  nah  ena 
sakhya  vi  yaushus  twoa  cha  Indra  Vimadaaya  oka  risheh  \  "  Let  not 
these  friendly  relations  of  ours,  of  thee,  o  Indra,  and  the  rishi 
Vimada,  he  dissolved") ;  x.  42,  11  (Indrah purastdd  uta  madhyato  nah 
sahha  sahhibhyo  varivah  krinotu  \  "  May  Indra,  a  friend,  grant  riches 
to  us  his  friends  hefore  and  in  the  middle").  He  chooses  for  his  in- 
timate the  man  who  presents  offerings,  but  desires  no  friendship  with 
him  who  offers  no  libations  (x.  42,  4  :  Atra  yuj'am  krimte  yo  havishmdn 
na  asunvata  sakhyam  vashti  iurah).  He  is  reminded  that  he  has  friends 
while  his  adorers  are  friendless  (viii.  21,4:  Vayam  hi  tva  landhuman- 
tam  dbcmdhmo  viprdsah  Indra  yemima).  He  is  not  only  a  friend,  but 
a  father,  and  the  most  fatherly  of  fathers  (iv.  17,  17  :  iSakhd  pitd 
pitrifamah  pitrmdm).  As  such  he  is  invoked  by  men  (x.  48,  1  :  Mdm 
havante  pita/ram  na  jantavah  \  Compare  1,  104,  9,  and  vii.  32,  3,  26). 
He  is  both  father  and  mother  (viii.  87,  11  :  Tvam  hi  nah  pitd  vaso 
tvam  mdtd  iatakrato  haihuvitha  |  compare  viii.  1,  6).  In  one  place 
(viii.  81,  32)  the  adoring  poet  exclaims  :  "Thou  art  ours  and  we 
are  thine"  (tvam  asmdkam  tava  smasi).  He  is  the  helper  of  the  poor 
(viii.  69,  3  :  radhra-ehodanam)  ;  the  only  helper  to  whom  his  wor- 
shipper has  recourse  (ibid.  1 :  na  hi  any  am  bald  'karam  marditdram). 
He  alone  among  the  gods  has  a  love  for  mortals  (vii.  23,  5  :  eko  devatrd 
dayase  hi  martydn),  and  is  their  helper  (i.  84,  19  :  na  tvad  anyo  magha- 
vann  asti  marditd  Indra  hravlmi  te  vaohah  \  viii.  55,  13  :  na  hi  tvad 
anyah  pwruhuta  kaschana  maghavann  asti  marditd)  ;  all  men  share  in 
his  benefits  (viii.  54,  7  :  yat  chid  hi  iahatdm  asi  Indra  sddhdranas 
tvam).  He  is  the  deliverer  and  the  advocate  (or  comforter)  of  his 
servants  (viii.  85,  20 :  sa  prdvita  maghavd  no  'dhivaktd),  and  their 
strength  (vii.  31,  5 :  tve  api  kratwr  mama).  He  is  a  wall  of  defence 
(viii.  69,  7  :  Indra  drihyasva  pur  asi).  His  friend  is  never  slain  or  con- 
quered (x.  152,  1 :   na  yasya  hanyate  sakhd  na  jiyate  kadd  chana).^ 

"*  The  same  is  said  of  Mitra,  iii.  59,  2,  and  of  the  Maruts,  v.  54,  7.  Compare  vii. 
20,  6 ;  fii.  32,  14 ;  viii.  16,6;  viii.  62,  11.  In  viii.  69,  4,  he  is  prayed  to  guard 
his  worshipper's  chariot,  and  to  bring  it  forward  from  the  rear  into  the  van  (JMra 


106  INDEA'S    EELATIONS   WITH   HIS  -WOESHIPPEES. 

His  powerful  arms  are  resorted  to  for  protection  (vi.  47,  8  :  rishva  te 
Indra  sthavirasya  lahv,  wpa  steyama  ka/rana  Irihantd).  He  is  invoked 
as  a  mighty  protector  and  deliverer  easy  to  be  entreated  (ibid.  1 1  : 
tratdram  Ind/ram  antaram  Incl/ram  have  have  suhavam  kuram  Ind/ram). 
The  worshippers  assume  that  Indra,  though  far  off,  is  not  afflicted  with 
deafness,  but  hears  distinctly  their  invocations  (viii.  45,  17  :  uta  tva 
abadhirafii  vayam  irutlcwnam  santam  utaye  \  durdd  iva  hcwamahe).  His 
right  hand  is  grasped  by  suppliants  for  riches  (x.  47,  1 :  Jagrilhma 
te  dakshinam  Indra  hastam  vasuyavo  vasiipate  iiasunam).  The  loving 
praises  of  his  worshippers,  uttered  from  the  soul,  proceed  to  him  as 
messengers,  and  touch  his  heart  (x.  47,  7  :  vanlvano  mama  dutasah 
Indram  stomai  charanti  sumatlr  iydnah  \  hridispriso  manasa  vachyama- 
ndk).  The  imploring  poet  with  his  hymn  seizes  the  skirts  of  the 
god's  robe,  as  a  son  his  father's  (iii.  53,  2 :  pitur  na  putrah  sieham 
arabhe  te  Indra  svadishthayd  gird  iachivah).  He  is  clasped  by  the 
ardent  hymns  of  his  votaries  as  a  husband  is  embraced  by  his  loving 
wives  (i.  62,  11  :  patim  na  patnlr  uSatir  mantam  sprisanti  tvd  iava- 
sdvan  mamsMk  |  i.  186,  7:  tam  Im  giro  janayo  na  patnlh  swrabhishta- 
marh  nardm  nasanta  |  x.  43,  1  :  aohha  me  Indram  matayah  svarvidah 
sadh/ricMr  vihdh  u^atir  anushata  |  pari  sJwajante  janayo  yathd  patim 
maryam  sundhyum  maghmdnam  utaye  \  Comp.  ii.  16,  9)."'  The  hymns 
run  to  him  and  lick  him,  as  cows  their  calves  (x.  119,  4  :  upa  md 
matir  asthita  vdsra  putram  iva  priyam  |  i.  186,  7 :  uta  nah  %m  matayo 
asvayogdh  sisum  na  gdvas  tarunarh  rihanti).  He  is  entreated  not  to  be 
lazy  like  a  priest  (viii.  81,  30  :  mo  shu  hrahmeva  tandrayur  Ihava  vdjd- 
ndm  pate) ;  and  not  to  allow  other  worshippers  to  arrest  his  horses 
when  conveying  him  to  the  abode  of  the  suppliants  who  would  satisfy 
him  with  soma-libations,  but  to  overleap  the  bonds  by  which  all  other 
candidates  for  his  favour  seek  to  confine  him  as  fowlers  to  snare  a  bird, 
and  to  pass  quickly  by  them  as  he  would  over  a  barren  desert  (ii.  18, 
3  :  Mo  su  tvdm  attra  laha/vo  hi  viprah  ni  riraman  yajamdndso  anye  \  iii. 
25,  5  :  md  te  harl  vrishand  vltaprishthd  ni  riraman  yajamdndso  anye  \ 


pra  no  ratham  mapaa'chat  chit  santam  adrivah  |  pwastad  enam  me  kridhi  |  compare 
verses  5  and  6).  See  ii.  27,  12. 

'*3  In  vii.  104,  6,  the  worshipper  prays  that  his  hymn  may  cling  around  Indra 
and  Soma  as  a  girth  clasps  a  horse  {pari  mm  bhutu  viavatah  iyam  matih  kakahya 
'iveva  vSjina). 


INDRA'S    EELATIONS   "WITH   HIS  WOESHIPPEES.  107 

ati  ayahi  iaivato  vayafh  te  arafh  sutebhih  hrimvama  somaih  \  iii.  45,  1 : 
a  mand/rair  Ind/ra  harihhir  yahi  mayuraromabhih  \  ma  tva  Icechin  ni 
yaman  vim  na  paHnah  ati  dhanva  iva  tan  ihi  |  x.  160,  1  :  tlvrasya 
abhvvaymah  asya  pahi  sarvaratha  vi  hart  iha  muncha  |  Indra  ma  tva 
yajamanasah  anye  ni  riraman  tuhhyam  ime  sutasah).  He  is  the  king 
of  things  moving,  of  men,  and  of  all  terrestrial  things ;  and  out  of  this 
abundance  he  bestows  wealth  on  the  man  who  brings  oblations  to  him 
(vii.  27,  3  :  Indro  raja  jagatai  charshanmam  adhi  hshami  vishwupam 
yad  asti  \  tato  dadati  ddSushe  vasuni  chodad  radhah  wpastutak  chid 
arvah).  Both  his  hands  are  fuU  of  riches  (vii.  37,  3  :  ubha  te  puma 
vasuna  gabhasti).  He  is  a  magazine  replenished  with  wealth,  whom 
the  worshipper  urges  to  liberality  (x.  42,  2  :  kokafh  na  purnaih  vasuna 
nirishtam  a  ohyavaya  maghadeyaya  kurarn).  Manifold  aids  shoot  out 
from  him  as  branches  from  a  tree  (vi.  24,  3 :  vrilcshasya  nu  te  pwru- 
huta  vayah  vi  utayo  ruruhur  Indra  purvlh).  He  is  asked  to  shower 
satisfying  wealth  on  his  adorers,  as  a  man  with  a  hook  shakes  down 
ripe  fruit  from  a  tree  (iii.  45,  4 :  vrihsham  pahvam  pTialam  anki  iva 
dhunuhi  Indra  samparanam  vasu).  Compare  ix.  97,  53.  Neither  gods 
nor  men  can  arrest  him  in  his  course  when  he  is  bent  on  liberality,  as 
a  terrific  buU.  cannot  be  stopped,  viii.  70,  3  {na  hi  tva  iura  devah  na 
martdso  ditsantam  |  hhimam  na  gam  vdrayante).  Compare  viii.  33,  8, 
and  iv.  16,  14.  His  friendship  is  indestructible  :  he  is  prayed  to 
be  a  cow  to  the  man  who  desires  one,  and  a  horse  to  the  man  seek- 
ing a  horse  (vi.  45,  26 :  dunasam  salchyam  tava  gaur  asi  vira  gavyate  j 
asvo  asvdyate  hhava).  He  gives  wives  to  those  who  had  none  (v. 
31,  2  :  amendmi  cMj  janivatai  chakartha  \  iv.  17,  16  :  j'anlyanto  jani- 
ddm  ahhitotim  d  ehydvaydmah).  He  richly  rewards  his  faithful 
servants  and  adorers  (ii.  12,  6 :  yo  radhrasya  chodita  yah  hriiasya  yo 
hrahmano  nddhamdnasya  hireh  \  14  :  yah  sunvantam  avati  yah  paohantam 
yah  kammntam  yal},  iaiamdnam  uti  |  ii.  19,  4 :  so  apratlni  manave  pu- 
runi  Indro  ddsad  ddsushe  \  ii.  22,  3  :  data  radhah  stuvate  kdmyam  vasu). 
The  days  dawn  prosperously  on  the  man  who  says  "  come,  let  us  pour 
out  libations  to  Indra  "  (v.  37,  1  :  tasmai  amridhrdh  ushaso  vi  uohhdn 
yah  "  Indrdya  sunavdma  "  ity  aha).  The  king  in  whose  house  the  god 
drinks  soma  mixed  with  milk  suffers  no  calamity,  marches  at  the  head 
of  his  hosts,  slays  his  enemy,  and  lives  tranquilly  at  home,  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  happiness  (ibid.  4 :  na  sa  raja  vyathate  yasminn  Indras  tivram 


108  INDRA'S    RELATIONS  "WITH   HIS  WOESHIPPERS. 

somam  pibati  gosakMyam  \  a  satoanair  afati  hanti  vrittram  Tesheti  ksMtih 
subhago  nama  pushyan  \  Compare  the  next  verse).  His  friend  is  taud- 
some,  possesses  horses  and  cows,  rides  in  a  chariot,  and  enjoys  always 
a  life  of  opulence,  and  goes  radiant  into  the  assembly  (viii.  4,  9  :  asm, 
rathl  swupah  id  goman  id  Indra  te  sahhS,  \  svdtrabhdja  "*  vayasa  sachate 
sada  chandro  yati  sabhdm  tcpa).  Indra  is  gladdened  by  the  praises 
of  the  pious  man,  whether  learned  or  unlearned  (viii.  50,  9 :  aoipro 
va  yad  cwidhad  vipro  va  Indra  te  vaehah  \  sa  pra  mandat  tvdyd. 
Compare  viii.  81,  12).  He  is  prayed  to  deliver  to-day,  to-morrow,  next 
day,  and  every  day,  and  both  by  day  and  night  (viii.  50,  17  :  adya 
adya  ivah  ivah  Indra  trdsva  pa/re  cha  nah  \  viivd  oha  no  jaritrm  satpate 
aha  diva  nahtam  cha  rakshishah  \  Compare  viii.  53,  6).  The  god  is,  how- 
ever, sometimes  naively  importuned  to  be  more  prompt  in  his  liberality. 
"  Gracious  are  thy  hands,  o  Indra  (the  poet  cries  in  iv.  21,  9),  beneficent 
thy  fingers,  bestowers  of  wealth  on  thy  worshipper ;  why,  then,  dost 
thou  sit  still  ?  "Why  dost  thou  not  gladden  us  ?  "Why  dost  thou  not 
delight  in  giving?"  bhadra  te  hastd  sukritota  pdnl  prayantdra  stuvate 
rddhah  Indra  \  ha  te  nishattih  kim  u  no  mamatsi  Mm  na  ud  ud  u  harshase 
ddtane  u).  Again  in  x.  42,  3,  he  is  asked  :  "  "Why  do  they  call  thee 
generous,  o  opulent  god  ?  Sharpen  me,  for  I  hear  thee  to  be  a  sharpener ; 
let  my  hymn  be  productive,  o  mighty  god ;  bring  to  us  good  fortune 
and  riches  "  {J(,im  anga  tvd  maghavan  bhoj'am  ahuh  iiiihi  ma  sisayam  tvd 
srinomi  |  apnasvati  mama  dhir  astu  kahra  vasuvidam  hhagam  Indra 
dbhara  nah).  The  god  is  even  told  that  the  poet,  if  in  his  place,  and 
possessed  of  the  ample  resources  which  he  alone  commands,  would 
shew  himself  more  bountiful,  and  would  not  abandon  his  worshipper 
to  poverty,  but  would  daily  lavish  on  him  cows  and  other  property 
(vii.  32,  18  :  yad  Indra  ydvatas  imam  etdvad  aham  Uiya  \  stotdram  id 
didhisheya  raddvaso  na  pdpatvdya  rdslya  \  19.  8'iksheyam  in  mahayate 
dive  dive  rdyah  a  kuhachidvide  P'°  viii.  14,  1.  Yad  Indra  aham  yathd 

•s*  On  the  sense  assigned  by  the  Indian  writers  to  avatra  see  my  art.  on  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  Veda,  in  Jonm.  E.A.S.  for  1866,  p.  378. 

196  Tiese  verses,  with  the  entire  hymn  in  which  they  occnr,  are  translated  by 
Prof.  Max  Miiller  in  his  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  fi43  ff.  The  word  Jcuhachidvide  is  there 
rendered  "  to  whosoever  it  be,"  and  it  is  there  mentioned  in  a  note  that  "  according 
to  the  commentator  huhachidvid  means  '  wherever  he  be.'  "  Prof.  Miiller  adds :  it 
may  perhaps  mean  the  ignorant.  Prof.  Roth  follows  Sayaua  in  his  explanation.  A 
similar  appeal  is  made  to  Agni  in  viii.  19,  25  :  yad  Agne  mm-tyas  tvam  syam  aham 


INDEA'S    RELATIONS   WITH    HIS  WOESHIPPEES.  109 

tvam  liiya  vasvah  ekah  it  \  stota  me  godhakha  syat  \  Hhsheyam  asmai 
ditseyaffi,  iacMpate  manishine  \  yad  aham  gopatih  syam). 

Indra  supplies  the  place  of  armour,  and  is  a  champion  who  fights  in 
the  Tan,  vii.  31,  6  {tvafh,  varma  saprathah  puroyodhas  cha  vrittrahan  \ 
tvayd  pratihruve  yvju).  He  is  supplicated  for  all  sorts  of  temporal 
blessings,  as  wealth  in  cows,  horses,  chariots,  health,  understanding, 
sweetness  of  voice  {svaimanam  vac/hah),  prosperous  days,  long  life  ex- 
tending to  a  hundred  years  (ii.  21,  6;  iii.  36,  10;  vii.  27,  5;  x.  47, 
1  ff.).  In  iv.  32,  17  ff.  the  worshipper  states  his  wishes  more  in  detail; 
asks  Indra  to  give  him  a  thousand  yoked  horses,  a  thousand  jars  of 
soma,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  cows  ;  acknowledges  that  he  had 
received  ten  golden  jars,  and  urges  the  god  not  to  be  sparing,  but  to 
bestow  abundantly  in  conformity  with  his  character  for  liberality 
{sahasram  vyatinam  yuktanam  Indram  imahe  |  iatam  somasya  kharyah  \  . 
18.  Bahasror  te  kata  va/yam  gavdm  a  chydvayamasi  \  asmatrd  rddhah  etu 
te  \  19.  Basa  te  halaiandm  hiranydndm  adhimahi  \  hhuriddh  asi  Vrit- 
trahan I  20.  Bhuriddh  Ihuri  dehi  no  md  dabhram  hhuri  a  Ihara  \  hhuri 
gha  id  Bidra  ditsasi  \  21.  Bhuriddh  hi  asi  krwtoK pwrutrd  iiira  Vrittra- 
han I  d  no  hhajasva  rddhasi).  Among  other  boons,  Indra  is  asked  to 
bestow  victory  in  war,  which  depends  upon  his  will,  and  for  wbich 
he  is  invoked  by  both  the  hostile  armies  (ii.  12,  8  :  yam  hrandan 
mfhyatl  vihvayete  pare  avare  ubhaydh  amifrah  \  9,  yasmad  na  rite  vij'a- 
yante  j'andsah  yam  yudhyamdndh  avase  havante).  In  x.  103,  8  if .  (  = 
S.Y.  ii.  1206  ff.,  and  Yaj.  S.  xvii.  40  ff.)  he,  in  company  with  other  gods, 

mitramaho  a/martya  \  sahasah  sunm;  ahuta  \  na  tva  rasTya  ahhUastaye  vaso  na  papat- 
mya  smntya  I  na  me  stota  amatwd  na  dwhitah  syad  Agne  na  papaya  \  "  Vert  thou, 
Agni,  a  mortal,  and  ■were  I  an  immortal,  o  invoked  son  of  miglit,  I  would  not  abandon 
thee  to  malediction  or  misery ; — my  worshipper  should  not  be  poor  nor  distressed  nor 
wretched."  Aud  again  in  viii.  44,  23,  the  same  god  is  thus  addressed :  Tad  Agne 
syam  aham  tvam  tvam  va  gha  ayah  aham  \  syus  te  satyah  ihasishah  \  "  Were  I  thou, 
Agni,  and  wert  thou  I,  thy  aspirations  should  be  fulfilled."  (In  the  former  passage 
Tiii.  19,  25,  a  word,  mitramahas,  occurs  which  shews  the  uncertainty  of  Sayana's 
interpretations.  He  there  explains  it  anukula-dTptiman,  "  he  whose  light  is  favour- 
able." In  i.  44,  12,  he  renders  it  mitranam  pujalca ;  in  1.  58,  8,  anulcula-dtptitmm 
in  ii.  1,  5,  hita  kdri-tejah;  in  vi.  2,  11,  anukule-dipte ;  in  vi.  5,  4,  an«i:ula-dTpte 
mitranam  madayitar  va  ;  in  vii.  6,  6,  mitrarmm  pujayitah;  in  vui.  44,  14,  mitra- 
nam pujamya  ;  in  viii.  49,  7,  mitranam  asmakam  pujaka  tejo  va.  Prof.  Both 
s.v.  thinks  it  perhaps  means  "rich  in  friends.")  See  also  i.  38,  4,  5,  in  Prof.  Max 
MuUer's  Trans,  of  the  R.V.  pp.  65  and  70  f.,  and  my  art.  on  the  iaterpretation  of  the 
Veda,  Joum.  E.A.S.  for  1866,  pp.  371,  and  381  f.    Compare  also  x.  33,  8. 


no  INDEA'S    RELATIONS  WITH    HIS  "WOESHIPPEES. 

who  seem  to  be  conceived  as  present  with  their  hosts,  as  invisible  allies 
of  their  worshippers,  is  thus  addressed :  8.  Indrah  dsam  neta  Brihas- 
patir  Dahhind  Yqfnah  pwrah  efu  Somah  \  devaaendndm  abhilhanjatinafh 
jayantinam  Maruto  yantu  agram  \  9.  Indrasya  vrishno  Varmasya 
rdjnah  Aditydndm  marutdm  kardhah  ugram  \  mahamanasdm  hhmanachya- 
vdnam  ghosho  devandm  jayatdm  ud  asthdi  \  10.  Ud  dharshaya  maghmann 
ayudhdni  ut  satvandm  mdmalcandm  mandmsi  \  ud  vritirahcm  vajindm 
mjindni  ud  rathanam  jwyatam  yantu  ghosMh  \  11.  Asmdham  Indra 
samriteshu  dhvajeshu  asmdkam  yah  iskavas  tdh  jwyantw  |  asmdham  virdh 
utiare  hhavantu  asmdn  u  devdh  avata  haveshu  \  12.  ( =  Nir.  ix.  33) 
Amlshdm  chittam.  pratilobhayantl  g^ihdnd  angdni  Apve "'  pareM  \  ahhi 
prehi  nirdaha  hritsu  SoJcair  andhenamitras  tamasd  sachantdm  \  8.  "  May 
Indra  be  the  leader  of  these  (our  armies),  may  Brihaspati,  Largess, 
Sacrifice,  and  Soma  march  in  front ;  may  the  host  of  Maruts  precede  the 
crushing,  victorious  armies  of  the  gods.  9.  May  the  fierce  host  of  the 
vigorous  Indra,  of  king  Varuna,  of  the  Adityas,  and  the  Maruts  (go 
before  us) ;  the  shout  of  the  great-souled,  conquering,  world-shaking 
gods  has  ascended.  10.  Rouse,  o  opulent  god,  the  weapons,  rouse  the 
souls  of  our  warriors,  stimulate  the  power  of  the  mighty  men;  may 
shouts  arise  from  the  conquering  chariots.  11.  May  Indra  be  ours 
when  the  standards  clash ;  may  our  arrows  be  victorious ;  may  our 
strong  men  gain  the  upperhand;  preserve  us,  o  gods,  in  the  fray.  12. 
Bewildering  the  hearts  of  our  enemies,  o  Apva,"'  take  possession  of 
their  limbs  and  pass  onward  ;  come  near,  burn  them  with  fixes  in  their 
hearts ;  may  our  enemies  fall  into  blind  darkness."  ^'^ 

Indra  controls  the  destinies  of  men,  and  is  described  as  acting  in  an 
arbitrary  manner,  in  vi.  47,  15,  where  it  is  said  of  him  :  pddav  iva  pra- 
harann  anyam  any  am  hrinoti  purvam  aparam  iachibhih  \  16.  S'rinve  virah 
ugram  ugram  damdyan  anyam  anyam  ati  nemyamidnah  \  edhamdna-dvil 
uhhayasya  rdjd  choshhuyate  vUah  Indro  mamishydn  \  17.  Para  purveshdm 
sakhyd  vrinaTcti  virtartwdno  aparehhir  eti  \  "  Like  one  moving  (changing 

"8  The  S.V.  reads  Aghe. 

"'  Apva  is  said  in  the  Nirukta  vi.  12,  to  mean  "disease  or  fear,"  vyadhir  va 
bhayam  va,  Koth,  s.v.  says  the  word  means  a  disease.  In  the  improvements  and 
addition  to  his  Lexicon,  vol.  v.,  he  refers  to  the  word  as  denoting  a  goddess,  and 
quotes  Ind.  Studien  iii.  203,  and  ix.  482. 

198  This  passage  is  .translated  by  Prof.  Benfey  ia  his  Sama-veda.  Compare  A.V. 
iii.  19,  6ff.  andviii.  8,  Iff. 


INDEA'S    RELATIONS   "WITH   HIS  "WOESHIPPEES.  HI 

the  positions  of)  his  feet  in  walking,  so  Indra  puts  one  and  now 
another  man  first  and  last.  1 6.  This  hero  is  renowned  as  subduing  every 
fierce  man,  and  as  advancing  now  one  and  now  another.  The  enemy 
of  the  prosperous,™  the  ting  of  both  (worlds),  Indra  protects  the  men 
who  are  subject  to  him.  17.  He  abandons  his  friendships  with  (his) 
former  (favourites),  and  consorts  with  others  in  turn." 

In  the  following  verses  (vlii.  45,  32)  the  poet  seems  to  express  disap- 
pointment at  the  inadequate  manifestation  of  Indra's  power,  while  he  at 
the  same  time  entreats  his  grace  and  forgiveness  :  dabhram  chid  hi  tva- 
vatah  Icritam  irinve  adhi  Jcshami  \  jigatu  Indra  te  manah  \  33.  Tmed  u 
tdh  sulclrttayah  asann  uta  praiastayah  \  y ad  Indra  mrilaydsi  nah  \  34. 
Ma  nah  elcasminn  dgasi  ma  dvayor  uta  trishu  |  vadhir  ma  iura  Ihurishu  1 
35.  Bilhaya  hi  tvavatah  ugrdd  ahhiprahhanginah  |  dasmdd  aham  riti- 
shahah  \  32.  "  Little  has  been  heard  of  as  done  upon  earth  by  one  such 
as  thou  art :  let  thy  soul  turn  (to  us),  o  Indra.  33.  Let  those  renowns 
and  those  praises  of  thine  be  proved  true  by  thy  shewing  merey  on  us, 

199.  "'WTio  do  not  offer  libations,"  say  Yaska  and  Sayana  {ammoataKj.  This  line 
is  explained  by  Prof.  Eoth  in  his  lUnstration  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  90.  Or  hare  we 
here  the  idea  that  the  gods  were  jealous  of  human  prosperity  ?  which,  as  is  well 
known,  prevailed  among  the  Greeks,  and  is  expressed  in  the  message  of  Amasis  to 
Polycrates,  as  related  by  Herodotus,  iii.  40 :  ijnoi  Se  ai  aa\  /leydKai  elrrvxiat  ovk 
ipiffKoviri  rh  9e!ov  iirtaraiihif  is  tari  <f>6ovep6r.  "  But  thy  great  prosperity  does 
not  please  me,  as  I  know  that  the  Deity  is  envious."  See  Mr.  Blakesley's  note  in 
loco,  and  Herodotus,  i.  32,  and  vii.  46,  where  the  same  sentiment  recurs.  Prof. 
Wilson  in  the  Introduction  to  the  3rd  vol.  of  his  Trans,  of  the  E.V.  remarks  on  this 
passage  :  "  He  (Indra)  is  also  represented  in  the  same  hymn  as  of  a  capricious  tem- 
perament, neglecting  those  who  serve  him,  and  favouring  those  who  pay  him  no 
adoration  (p.  473,  verse  17) ;  a  notion  somewhat  at  variance  with  a  doctrine  previously 
inculcated,  that  the  ceremonial  worship  of  Indra  is  able  to  atone  for  the  most  atrocious 
crimes  (p.  289,  note)."  See  the  note  last  referred  to,  which  relates  to  E.V.  y.  34,  4. 
But  is  this  a  correct  deduction  from  the  passage  when  properly  interpreted? 
The  verse  is  as  follows :  Tasya  cmadhit  pitaram  yasya  mataram  yasya  sahro  bhrata- 
ram  na  atah  tshate  \  veti  id  u  asya  prayata  yatanJearo  na  Mlbishad  Jskate  vasvah 
akarah  \  "  The  powerful  god  does  not  flee  from  the  man  whose  father,  or  mother,  or 
brother  he  has  slain.  The  restrainer  (or,  according  to  Eoth,  s.v.  perhaps,  avenger) 
desires  such  a  man's  oflTered  (gifts) ;  this  god,  the  source  of  riches,  does  not  flee  from 
sin."  Sayana  says  the  person,  whose  relations  the  god  slays,  is  one  who  neglects  his 
worship,  and  whom  he  chastises  and  then  reinstates  in  his  favour  {ayajvanam  iiksha- 
yitva  niyojayati).  li,  however,  Indra  is  merely  punishing  the  ungodly,  can  it  be 
intended  in  the  word  kilbisKat  in  the  last  clause  of  the  verse  to  impute  to  him  any 
guilt  ?  It  may  perhaps  be  meant  that  he  does  not  fear  to  punish  the  offender  against 
him.  In  verses  3, 6,  and  6  of  the  hymn  the  godly  man  who  offers  libations  is  said  to 
prosper,  while  the  irreligious  incurs  the  god's  displeasure. 


112  INDEA'S   RELATIONS  VITH  HIS  -WOESHIPPEES. 

0  Indra.  34.  Slay  us  not  for  one  sin,  nor  for  two,  nor  for  three,  nor 
for  many,  o  hero.  35.  I  am  afraid  of  one  so  terrible,  so  crushing,  so 
destroying,  such  a  queller  of  resistance  as  thou  art."  ""  Indra  is  the 
enemy  of  the  irreligious,  whom  he  punishes  and  destroys,  i.  131,  4 : 
S'asas  tarn  Indra  ma/rtyam  aycy'yum  \  "  Thou,  Indra,  hast  punished  him 
who  does  not  worship  thee;  ii.  12,  10  :  yah  iaivato  mahi  eno  dadhanan 
amanyamanan  sa/rva  jaghdna  \  "  who  slew  with  his  bolt  those  who  are 
great  sinners,  and  do  not  regard  him;  viii.  14,  15:  asunvam  Indra 
swrnsadam  mshuchlm  vi  anasayah  |  somapdh  utta/ro  hha/oan  \  "Thou, 
Indra,  a  soma-drinker,  who  art  above  all,  hast  destroyed  and  scattered 
the  assembly  which  offers  no  libations."  (Compare  the  passages  quoted 
in  Yol.  i.  pp.  259  ff. ;  and  in  my  article  on  the  Indian  priests  ia  the 
Vedic  age.  Jour.  K.A.S.,  for  1866,  pp.  286  ff.)''"  He  hears  and  sees  all 
things,  and  looks  upon  the  wrath  of  men,  himself  uncontrolled  (viii. 
67,  5  :  vUvam  irinoti  paiyati  \  6.  Sa  mcmyum  martyanam  adahdho 
nichikishate).  He  protects  his  faithful  servants  and  leads  them  into  an 
ample  space,  into  celestial  light  and  security  (vi.  47,  8  :  v/rum  ^^  no 
loTcam,  anu  neshi  vidvdn  svarvof  jyotir  abhayam  svasti) ;  and  in  one 
place,  viii.  58,  7,  the  hope  is  held  that  they  shall  ascend  with  him  to  ■ 
a  home  in  the  solar  sphere,  and  there  drink  nectar  thrice  seven  times  ia. 
the  abode  of  their  friend  {ud  yad  Iradhnasga  vishtapa&  griham  Indrai 
eha  gawoahi  \  madhvah  pitvd  sachevahi  trih  sapta  sakhyuh  pade). 

s'o  The  sense  of  verse  134  f.  is  thus  given  by  Prof.  Roth  in  his  Illustrations  of  the 
Nirukta  (iv.  2)  p.  38  ;  "  The  poet  prays  Indra  not  to  destroy  him  for  one  or  more 
sins  (verse  34),  says  that  he  is  afraid  of  one  so  powerful  as  the  god  (verse  35),  and 
entreats  him  to  avert  from  him  the  loss  of  a  friend  or  a  son  (verse  36).  He  then 
makes  the  god  answer  in  the  verse  before  us  (37) :  '  Who,  o  mortals,'  said  Indra, 
'  without  being  provoked  as  a  friend,  has  ever  destroyed  his  friend  ?  Who  must  flee 
from  me  ? '  " 

'">  Compare  R.T.  viii.  21,  14  (  =  S.V.  ii.  740) :  naMh  revantam  mJchyaya  vindme 
piycmti  tva  surdivah  \  yadd  krimshi  nadanvm  samuhasi  ad  it  piteva  huyase),  which 
is  thus  rendered  by  Prof.  Muller  (Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.,  p.  543  f.)  :  "  Thou  never  findest 
a  rich  man  to  be  thy  friend;  wine-swillers  despise  thee.  But  when  thou  thunderest, 
when  thou  gatherest  (the  clouds),  then  thou  art  called  like  a  father."  Benfey  renders 
the  verse  somewhat  differently,  thus  :  "  Thou  never  takest  for  a  fi-iend  the  man  who 
is  merely  rich ;  he  who  is  inflated  with  wine  is  a  burthen  to  thee  :  with  a  mere  sound 
thou  smitest  them,  and  then  thou  art  supplicated  like  a  father." 

S02  Compare  viii.  67, 13.  In  A.V.  vii.  84,  2,  Indi-a  is  said  to  have  repelled  the 
hostile  man,  and  opened  an  ample  space  for  the  gods  {apanudo  jemvm  amitrayantam 
u/ri/m  devebhyai}  akrinor  u  lokam). 


INDEA'S    RELATIONS   WITH    HIS    WORSHIPPERS.  113 

Indra,  more  than  any  other  god,''"'  is  invoked  as  a  patron  of  th» 
Aryasj  and  as  their  protector  against  their  enemies  earthly,  or  aerial : 
i.  61,  8 :  Vijatiihi  aryan  y«  cha  iasymio  harhishmate  rtmdihaya  Sasa^ 
avratsn  \  isM  hhma  y^amanasya  chodita  vUvd  it  te  sadhamadeshit 
ehskana  |  "Distinguish  between  the  Aryas  and  those  who  are  Dasyus; 
subject  the  lawless  to  the  man  who  offers  oblations ;  be  a  powerful 
helper  of  him  who  sacrifices ;  all  these  things  1  desire  at  thy 
festivals."  '°*    (See  also  the  following  verse.) 

i.  103,  3  :  sa  jatubha/rmd^"^  iraddadhdnah  oj'ah  pv/ro  viVhindann 
achdrad  vi  dasth  \  vidvan  vajrin:  dasyaoe  hetint  asya  dry  am  saho  vwrdha/yar 
dyumnam  Indra  \  "Wielding  the  thunderbolt,  and  confident  in  his 
prowess,  he  strode  on'ward,  shattering  the  cities  of  the  Dasytis. 
Thunderer;  knowing  (each),  hurl  thy  bolt  against  the  Dasyu,  and 
stugment  the  force  and  glory  of  the  Arya."  i.  130,  8  :  Indrah  samatsu 
yty'amdnam  aryam  prSvad  miveshu,  satamutir  dfishu  ,  .  .  .  |  manave 
idsad  mratdn  toaeka'ih,  hritknAm  a/ra%dh(tyat  \  ''Indra,  commanding  a 
hundred  modes  of  succour;  protected  in  all  the  battles  the  sacrifiicing 
Arya:  chastising  the  lawless,  he  subjected  the  black  skin  to  Mann  (of 
the  Aryan  man)."  ii.  11,  18;  apdvrinor  j^otir  drydya  ni  smyatah 
Bddi  dasyur  Indra  \  "Thou  hast  disclosed  the  light  to  the  Arya;  the 
D&syu  was  placed  on  the  left  side."  iii.  34,  9 :  sasdna  atydn  wt<t 
surywm  sasdna  sasdna  puruihqfasam  gdm  \  Jsi/ira^ayam  ufa  Ikigd'Hi 
sasdna  luttvl  dasyun  pra  dryam  va/rnam  dvai  \  "  Indra  has  given  horses, 

w  Other  gods,  however,  are  also  referred- to  as  protectors  of  the  Aryas.  In  i.  117, 
21  (Nir.  vi.  25)  it  is  said  of  the  A^vins :  aihi  daaywh  bakurena  a  dhamcmta  wu 
jyotir  chakratur  aryaya  \  "  Sweeping  away  the  Dasyu  with  the  thunderhold,  ye  have 
created  a  great  light  for  the  Arya."  Prof.  Roth  thinks  takm-a  means  a  wind  instru- 
ment, lllust.  of  Nir.  p.  92,  and  Lexicon  s.v.  Prof.  Benfey  follows  Sayana  in  rendering 
it  by  thunderbolt.  In  vi.  21,  11,  it  is  said  of  all  the  gods  :  ye  agnijihoah  ritasapah 
asur  ye  mcmum  ekakrii/r  v^a/ram  dasSya  \  "  Those  (gods)  who,  fire-tohgued,  and  fre- 
quenting religious  rites,  have  made  Manu's  race  (or  the  Aryan  man)  superior  to  the 
Dasa."  In  vii.  100,  4,  it  is  said  of  Vishnu :  vi  chahrame  prithivim  esha  etam  hshe- 
traya  Vishnur  manmhe  daiasyan  \  "  This  Vishnu  strode  over  this  earth,  bestowing 
it  as  a  domain  on  Manu's  raCe."  And  in  viii.  92,  1,  it  is  said  of  Agni :  »po  s/m 
j'atam  aryasya  vardharMm  Agnith  nakshanta  no  girah  \  "  Our  hymns  have  reached- 
Agni,  who  was  bom  the  promoter  of  the  Arya." 

*"*  See  Professor  Benfey' s  Translation  in  Orient  und  Occident,  i.  408. 

S05  Sayana  says  this  means  either  "  he  whose  weapon  is  the  thunderbolt,"  or  "the 
nurturer  of  creatures."  Benfey,  Or.  und  Occ.  iii.  132,  renders  the  compound  "born- 
wairior." 

8 


114  INDEA'S    RELATIONS  WITH   HIS  -WOESHIPPERS. 

has  given  the  sun,  has  given  the  prolific  cow,  and  he  has  given  golden 
wealth :  destroying  the  Dasyus,  he  has  protected  the  Aryan  colour." 
iv.  26,  2  :  aham  lihumim  adadam  arydya  aharh  vriahtim  daiushe  mar- 
tyaya  |  "I  have  given  the  earth  to  the  Arya,  and  rain  to  the  wor- 
shipping mortal."  vi.  18,  3 :  tvam  ha  nu  tyad  adamayo  dasyun  ekah 
krishtlr  avanor  aryaya  \  "  Then  didst  then  subdue  the  Dasyus,  and 
gavest  the  people  to  the  Arya."  vi.  25,  3:  abhir  vikvah  ahhiyujo 
vishuoMr  aryaya  miah  avatarir  daslh  \  "  With  these  succours  thou  hast 
subjected  all  the  distracted  hostile  Dasyu  peoples  to  the  Arya."  viii. 
24,  27 :  yah  rikshad  amhaso  muchad  yo  vd  aryat  sapta  sindhusku  | 
vadhar  dasasya  tuvmrimna  ninamah  |  "Who  delivered  from  great 
straits ;  who,  o  god  of  mighty  force,  didst  in  (the  land  of)  the  seven 
rivers  turn  away  from  the  Arya  the  weapon  of  the  Dasyn."  viii.  87,  6  : 
tvam  hi  ^aivatinSm  Indra  dartd  pv/rdm  asi  \  hantd  dasyor  manor  vridhaA 
patir  divah  | , "  Thou,  Indra,  art  the  destroyer  of  unnumbered  cities ;  the 
slayer  of  the  Dasyu;  the  prosperer  of  the  (Aryan)  man;  the  lord  of 
the  sky."  x.  49,  2 :  aham  S'ushnasya  inathita  vadhar  yamam  na  yo 
rare  dry  am  ndma  dasyave  \  "I,  the  smiter,  have  stayed  the  weapon  of 
S'ushna ;  I  do  nut  abandon  the  Aryan  race  to  the  Dasyu."  x.  86,  19  : 
ay  am  emi  viohdhaiad  vichinvan  ddsam  dry  am  |  "I  come  beholding  and 
distinguishing  the  Dasa  and  the  Arya."  (I  am  unable,  however,  to 
say  who  is  the  speaker  here.)™^ 

206  Indra  with  Agni  is,  however,  besought  in  vi.  60  to  slay  all  enemies,  Aryas  as 
weU  as  Dasyus;  hato  vrittrani  arya  hato  dasani  satpatl  \  hato  visva  apa  dvishah). 
In  i.  38,  3,  Indra  alone  is  similarly  addressed :  To  no  ddsah  aryo  m  purushtuta 
adevah  Indra  yudhm/e  ehiJeetati  \  asmdbhir  te  sushahah  semtu  satravas  tvaya  vayam 
tan  vimuyama  scmgame  \  "  Whatever  ungodly  man,  o  much-lauded  Indra,  whether  a 
Dasa  or  an  Arya,  designs  to  fight  with  us, — may  all  such  enemies  be  easy  to  overcome ; 
nlay  we  slay  them  in  the  conflict."  And  in  x.  102,  3,  it  is  said :  antar  yachha 
jighdmsato  vajram  Indra  ahhidasatah  \  dasasya  va  inaghavann  aryasya  va  sanutar 
ycmaya  vadham  \  "  Arrest,  o  Indra,  the  bolt  of  the  destroyer  who  seeks  to  slay  us ; 
avert  far  iirom  us  the  stroke,  whether  of  Dasa  or  of  Arya."  Indra  and  Varuna  are 
invoked  for  the  same  object  in  vii.  83,  1 :  Dasa  cha  vrittra  hatam  aryani  oka  sudasam 
Indra-varUna  'vasa  'vatam  |  "  Slay  both  Dasa  and  Arya  enemies ;  protect  Sudas  with 
your  succour,  o  Indra  and  Varuna."  So  too  in  x.  83,  1,  Manyu  (personified  Wrath) 
is  prayed :  sahyama  dasam  aryain  tvaya  yuja  sahsJcritena  sahasa  sahasvata  |  "  May 
we,  with  thee  for  our  ally,  overcome  the  Dasa  and  the  Arya,  with  force-impelled, 
vigorous,  energy."  Perhaps  ii.  11,  19  [samema  ye  te  utibhis  taranto  vis'vah  spridhah 
aryena  ddsyun)  may  have  the  same  sense.  In  x;  65,  11,  certain  bountiful  deities  are 
spoken  of  as  generating  prayer,  the  cow,  the  horse,  plants,  trees,  the  earth,  the 
mountains,  the  waters,  as  elevating  the  sun  in  the  sky,  and  as  spreading  Aryan  insti- 


ARE  THE  EEPEESENTATIONS  OF  INDRA  INCONSISTENT.     115 

(7)  Apparent  mutual  incongruity  of  some  of  the  preceding  represen- 
tations of  Indra. 

The  reader  wto  is  not  familiarly  acquainted  with  the  hymns  of  the 
Veda,  either  in  the  original  or  by  translations,  may  thiak  that  he 
perceives  an  incompatibility  between  the  conceptions  of  the  god,  which 
he  will  find  in  the  different  parts  of  the  preceding  sketch.  And, 
accordiiig  to  our  idea,  no  doubt,  there  is  an  incompatibility.  The  naif 
familiarity  with  which  Indra  is  treated  in  some  places  seems  irreconcil- 
able with  the  lofty  ideas  of  his  greatness  which  other  portions  express. 
And  more  particularly  the  sensual  character,  which  is  generally  attributed 
to  the  god,  appears  to  be  in  opposition  to  the  moral  perfection  which  is 
elsewhere  described  as  an  essential  feature  of  his  nature.  But  however 
incompatible,  according  to  our  ideas,  they  may  seem  to  be,  both  of 
these  sets  of  representations  occur  side  by  side,  in  the  same  hymns; 
and  we  must  account  for  their  co-existence  and  juxtaposition  by  sup- 
posing that  the  ancient  Indian  poets  regarded  the  deity  who  was  the 
object  of  their  adoration  as  anthropopathioally  partaking,  in  a  higher 
degree,  of  the  elements,  sensuons  as  well  as  intellectual  and  moral, 
which,  on  the  evidence  of  their  own  consciousness,  they  knew  to  be 
equally  constituent  parts  of  their  own  nature.  It  must  be  further 
borne  in  mind  that  these  ancient  authors  did  not  connect  the  same 
low  associations  as  we  now  connect  with  the  sensuous,  or  even 
sensual,  principle  in  the  character  of  the  god  which  is  exemplified  in 
his  love  for  the  exhilarating  draughts  of  his  favourite  beverage.  This  is 
clearly  shewn  by  the  high  rank  which,  as  we  shall  hereafter  see,  they 
assigned  to  Soma  himself,  as  the  deity  in  whom  this  intoxicating  iur 
fluence  was  personified,  and  by  the  power  which  they  ascribed  to  him 
of  conferring  immortality  upon  his  votaries. 

And  that  these  apparently  incongruous  conceptions  are  not  the  products 
of  different  minds  in  various  stages  of  development,  but  of  the  same 
poets,  may  be  seen  from  the  following  instances.  In  ii.  15,  2,  Indra  is 
said  to  have  fulfilled  some  of  his  grandest  functions  under  the  influence 
of  the  soma-juice  :  a/oaihh  dyam  astabhayad  hrihantam  a  rodasi  aprinad 

tutions  upon  the  earth  {brahma  gam  asvam  Jcmayemtah  oahadhir  tianaspafln  prithw'im 
parvatan  apah  \  surycm  divi  rohaycmtal}  sudanmah  arya  wata  visrijtmtah  adhi 
Jcshami), 


116  PEOPESSOE  EOTH'S  THEOET  OF  THE 

antarihham  |  sa  dharayad  prifhwlm  paprathaehi  eha  somasya  td  made 
Indrai  chaMra  \  "He  fixed  the  heaven  in  empty  space;  he  filled  the 
two  worlds  and  the  air ;  he  supported  the  earth  and  spread  it  out ; 
these  things  Indra  did  in  the  exhilaration  of  the  soma."  Similarly  in 
viii.  36f  4,  Jwnita  divo  j'amta  pritlmyah  piha  somam  madaya  ham  iata- 
krato  I  "Generator  of  Heaven,  generator  of  the  Earth,  drink  soma  to 
exhilarate  thee,  o  god  of  mighty  force."  In  viii.  67,  5,  as  we  have 
seen  above,  p.  112,  Indra  is  said  to  hear  and  see  everything.  In 
the  seventh  verse  of  the  same  hymn  we  are  told  that  the  belly  of 
him,  the  impetuous  actor,  the  slayer  of  Vyittra,  and  drinker  of 
soma,  is  full  of  vigour  {kratvah,  it  piirnam  udaram  tii/rasya  aati 
vidhatah  \  vrittraffinah  wmapavnah).  And  in  viii.  81,  6,  it  is  said  of 
him  :  asya  pUva  maddndm  devo  devasya  y'asa  \  visva  ^IM  hJmvana 
'Ihmat  I  "Drinking,  a  god,  of  the  exhilarating  draughts  of  this  god 
(Soma),,  he,  by  his  energy,  overcame  aU  beings  (or  worlds)." 

(8)  Professor  Roth's  theory  of  the  siipersession  of  the  worship  of  Varuna 
ly  that  of  Indra. 

Professsor  Both  is  of  opinion  that  Varuna  belongs  to  an  older 
dynasty  of  gods  than  Indra,  and  that  during  the  Vedic  age  the  high 
consideration  originally  attaching  to  the  former  was  in  course  of  being 
transferred  to  the  latter.  In  support  of  his  position  that  Varuna's 
worship  was  then  declining,  he  urges  the  circumstance  that,  in  the 
tenth  book  of  the  Eig-veda,  which  contains  the  latest  productions  of 
that  period,  there  is  not  a  single  entire  hymn  addressed  to  this  deity.^' 

^w  See  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vi.  7S ;  and  Bohtlingk  and 
Eoth's  Sanskrit  and  German  Lexicon,  s.v.  Indra.  Professor  Whitney  adopts  the 
same  view  (Joum.  Amer.  Orient.  Society,  iii.  327).  Windischmann,  in  his  Mithrai 
p.  5*,  extends  the  same  remark  to  that  god  also.  The  passage  is  translated  in  th& 
2nd  Tol.  of  this  work,  p.  295.  Although,  however,  there  is  no  hymn  in  the  tenth 
Mandala  addressed  exclusively  to  Varuna,  there  are  two,  the  126th,  of  eight  verses, 
and  the  185th,  of  three  verses,  in  which  he  is  invoked  along  with  two  of  the  other 
Adityas,  Mitra  and  Aryaman.  In  only  two  verses  of  the  former  of  these  hymns  is 
reference  made  to  any  other  god,  viz.,  to  Eudra,  the  Maruts,  and  Agni  in  the  verse  5, 
and  Agni  in  verse  8.  Varuna  is  also  invoked,  or  referred  to,  along  with  other  deities, 
in  numerous  single  verses  of  the  10th  Mandala,  viz.,  in  8,  6  ;  10,  6 ;  11,  1 ;  12,  8 
14,7;  30,1;  31,9;  35,10;  36,1,3,12,13;  37,1;  61,2,4;  61,17;  63,9 
64,  6,  12 ;  65,  1,  5,  8,  9  ;  66,  2 ;  70,  11 ;  75,  2  ;  83,  2 ;  84,  7 ;  86,  17,  24  ;  89,  8 
9;  93,  4;  97,  16;  98,  1;  99,  10;  103,9;  109,2;  113,6;  123,6;  124,4,5,7 
125,1;  130,6;  132,2:  147,5;  167,3;  173,5.  See  the  index  to  Langloia's 
French  translation  of  the  E.V. 


SUPERSESSION  OP  VAEimA  BY  INDEA.  117 

I  gire  the  substance  of  his  interesting  observations : — 
The  supersession  of  the  one  god  by  the  other  Both  considers  to  be  a 
result,  or  feature,  of  the  gradual  modification  which  the  old  Arian 
religion  soon  began  to  undergo  after  it  had  been  transplanted  into 
India.  The  more  supersensuous  or  spiritual  elements  of  this  religion 
he  thinks  were  preserved,  though  in  a  peculiar  and  somewhat  altered 
form,  in  the  Persian  creed,  which,  at  the  same  time,  rejected  almost 
entirely  the  gods  representing  the  powers  of  nature,  whom  it  had  also 
inherited  from  an  earlier  age.  The  Indian  faith,  as  found  in  the  Eig- 
veda,  has,  on  the  contrary,  according  to  Roth,  begun  already  to  give  the 
preference  to  these  latter  deities,  to  transfer  to  them  an  ever-iucreasing 
dignity  and  honour,  to  draw  down  the  divine  life  into  nature,  and  to 
bring  it  ever  closer  to  man.  Proof  of  this  is  especially  to  be  found  in 
the  development  of  the  myth  regarding  Indra,  a  god  who,  in  the 
earlier  period  of  Arian  religious  history,  either  had  no  existence,  or 
was  confined  to  an  obscure  province.  The  Zend  legend  assigns  to 
another  god  the  function  which  forms  the  essence  of  the  later  myth 
concerning  Indra.  This  god  Trita,  however,  disappears  in  the  Indian 
mythology  of  tho  Vedic  age,  and  is  succeeded  by  Indra.  And  not 
only  so,  but  towards  the  end  of  this  period  Indra  begins  to  dislodge 
even  Varuna  himself,  the  highest  god  of  the  ancient  creed,  from  the 
position  which  is  shewn,  partly  by  historical  testimonies,  and  partly 
by  the  very  conception  of  his  character,  to  belong  to  him,  and  becomes, 
if  not  the  supreme  god,  at  least  the  national  god,  whom  his  encomiasts 
strive  to  elevate  above  the  ancient  Varuna.  This  process  was  com- 
pleted in  the  post-vedic  period,  as  is  shewn  already  in  the  Erahmanas 
and  other  works  of  the  same  era.  Indra  becomes  the  chief  of  the 
Indian  heaven,  and  maintains  this  place  even  in  the  composite  system 
which  adopted  into  itself  the  three  great  gods.  The  course  of  the 
movement  was  therefore  this,  that  an  old  god,  common  to  the  Arians 
(i.e.  the  Persians  and  Indians),  and  perhaps  also  to  the  entire  Indo- 
Germanic  race,  Varuna-Ormuzd-Uranos,  is  thrown  back  into  the  dark- 
ness, and  in  his  room  Indra,  a  peculiarly  Indian,  and  a  national  god, 
is  intruded.  With  Yaruna  disappears  at  the  same  time  the  ^ancient 
character  of  the  people,  while  with  Indra  there  was  introduced  in  the 
same  degree  a  new  character,  foreign  to  the  primitive  Indo-Germanic 
nature.  Viewed  in  its  internal  aspect,  this  modification  of  the  religious 


118  SUPERSESSIOK  OF  DTAUS  BY  INDEA, 

conceptions  of  the  Aryas  consists  in  an  ever-increasing  tendency  to 
attenuate  the  supersensuous,  mysterious  side  of  the  creed,  nntil  the 
gods,  who  were  originally  the  highest  and  most  spiritual,  have  heoome 
unmeaning  representatives  of  nature,  Yaruna  being  nothing  more  than 
the  ruler  of  the  sea,  and  the  Adityas  merely  regents  of  the  sun's  course. 
This  process  of  degradation  naturally  led  to  a  reaction.  (See  the 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vi.  76  f.) 

The  superior  antiquity  of  Varuna  t9  Indra  may  no  doubt  (as  inti- 
mated in  the  passage  just  quoted),  be  argued  from  the  fact  already 
noticed  of  the  coincidence  of  the  name  of  the  former  with  that  of  the 
Greek  Ovpavov,  which  goes  some  way  to  prove  that  a  deity  of  this 
name  was  worshipped  by  the  entire  Indo-Germanic  race  before  its 
western  branches  were  separated  from  the  eastern,  whilst  we  shall 
look  in  vain  for  any  traces  of  the  name  Indra  in  the  Greek  mythology. 

(9)  Supersession  of  Bywmhy  Indra,  according  to  Professors 
Benfey  and  Brial. 

It  is,  however,  as  I  have  already  intimated,  p.  34,  the  opinion  of 
other  writers  that  Indra  was  rather  the  successor  of  Dyaus  than  of 
Yaruna.  Thus  in  a  note  (occasioned  by  the  word  sthdtar)  to  his  trans- 
lation of  E.V.  i.  33,  5  (Orient  und  Occident,  i.  48,  1862),  Professor 
Benfey  writes  :  "It  may  be  distinctly  shewn  that  Indra  took  the  place 
of  the  god  of  the  heaven,  who  in  the  Yedas  is  invoked  in  the  vocative 
as  Dyaush  pitar  (E.Y.  vi.  51,  5).  This  is  proved  by  the  fact  that  this 
phrase  is  exactly  reflected  in  the  Latin  (Diespiter  ?  and  Jupiter  (for 
Dyouspiter)  and  in  the,  Greek  Zev  irarep  (which  is  consequently  to  be 
taken  for  Zev';  iraTep),  as  a  religious  formula  fixed,  like  many  others, 
before  the  separation  of  the  languages.  "When  the  Sanskrit  people  left 
the  common  country  where  for  them,  as  well  as  for  the  other  kindred 
tribes,  the  brilliant  radiance  of  heaven  {divant,  part,  from  div,  to 
shine  .  .  .  )  appeared  to  them,  in  consequence  of  the  climate  there 
prevailing,  as  the  holiest  thing,  and  settled  in  the  sultry  India,  where 
the  glow  of  the  heaven  is  destructive,  and  only  its  rain  operates  bene- 
ficently, this  aspect  of  the  celestial  deity  must  have  appeared  the  most 
adorable,  so  that  the  epithet  Pluvius  in  a  certain  measure  absorbed  aU. 
the  other  characteristics  of  Dyaush  pitar.     This  found  its  expression  in 


ACCOEDING  TO  PEOFESSOES  BENFET  AND  BBE'AL.         119 

the  name  Ind-ra,  in  wMch  we  untesitatingly  recognize  a  word  (which, 
arose  in  some  local  dialect,  and  was  then  diffused  with  the  spread  of 
the  worship)  standing  for  sind-ra,  which  again  was  derived  from  syand, 
'  to  drop.'  .  .  .^^  The  conceptions  which  had  been  attached  to  Dyaus, 
Jous,  Zev<;,  were  then  transferred  to  Indra,  and  accordingly  we  find 
the  epithet  stator,  which  in  Latin  is  attached  to  Juppiter,  applied  to 
him."  In  this  view  Professor  Benfey  is  followed  by  M.  Michel  Breal, 
in  his  "Hercule  et  Caous,"  p.  IQl.  After  giving  in  Section  V.  an 
account  of  the  myth  of  Indra  and  Vrittra,  this  able  writer  proceeds  in 
the  following  section  to  explain  its  formation.  I  trauslate  a  few 
sentences  from  p.  101  :  "The  first  thing  which  ought  to  strike  us  is 
that  the  hero  of  the  myth  is  not  the  same  iu  the  Indian,  as  in  the 
classical  mythology.  The  name  Indra  has  nothing  ia  common  with 
Zeus ;  further  Indra  is  an  exclusively  Indian  god,  created  at  an  epoch 
when  the  ancestors  of  the  European  races  had  been  already  separated 
from  their  brothers  in  Asia ;  in  reading  the  Vedas  we  are  in  some  sort 
spectators  of  his  first  appearance,  which  nearly  coincides  with  the 
composition  of  the  earliest  hymns.  But  we  have  already  said  that  the 
Vedic  mythology  is  extremely  fioating,  that  the  attributes  of  one  god 
are  easily  transferred  to  another,  and  that  in  place  of  Indra,  other  gods 
are  ofteii  invoked  as  the  conquerors  of  Vrittra.  We  are  autborized 
then  to  taink  that  in  this  myth  Indra  occupies  the  place  of  some  more 
ancient  divinity.  The  name  of  this  god,  which  we  may  give  with 
perfect  certainty,  is  Dyaus,  or  Dyaushpitar,  the  Heaven,  father  of 
beings.  Dyaus  is  the  first  god  of  the  Indo-European  nations  :  main- 
tained in  his  supreme  rank  by  the  Greeks  and  Latins,  he  has  fallen 
from  it  in  the  Vedas,  although  he  is  there  sometimes  invoked,  chiefly 
in  company  with  the  goddess  Prithivi  (the  Earth)." 


20S  Professor  Miiller  assigns  tte  same  sense  to  Indra,  in  his  Lectures  on  Language, 
ii.  430,  note,  where  he  writes :  Indra,  a  name  peculiar  to  India,  admits  but  of  one 
etymology,  i.e.  it  must  be  derived  from  the  same  root,  whatever  that  may  be,  which 
in  Sanskrit  yielded  mdu,  drop,  sap.  It  meant  originally  the  giver  of  rain,  the 
Jupiter  pluvius,  a  deity  in  India  more  often  present  to  the  mind'  of  the  worshipper 
thaa  any  other.  Cf.  Benfey,  Orient  und  Occident,  vol.  i.  p.  49."  Professor  Both,  in 
his  Lexicon,  s.v.  thinks  the  word  comes  from  the  root  in  or  imi,  with  the  sufllx  r, 
preceded  by  epenthetic  d,  and  means  "the  overcomer,"  "the  powerful."  The  old 
Indian  derivations  may  he  found,  as  he  remarks,  in  Nir,  x.  8.  See  also  Sayana  on 
E.V.  i.  34,  referred  to  by  Eoth,  Illust.  of  Nir.,  p.  136. 


120  WHETHER  VARFNA  AND  AHURA  MAZDA 

But  whatever  may  be  the  case  as  regards  Dyaus,  the  incjreasing 
popularity  of  Indra  may,  no  doubt,  as  Professor  Both  supposes,  have 
tended  also  to  eclipse  the  lustre  of  Varuna. 

(10)  Opinions  of  Professors  Roth,  Whitney,  Spiegel,  and  Dr.  F.  Windiseh- 
mann,  on  the  question  whether  Varuna  and  Ahura  Mazda  are  histo- 
rically connected. 

If  Professor  Eoth's  opinion,^"'  that  there  is  not  merely  an  analogy,  but 
an  actual  historical  connection  between  the  Adityas  and  the  Amshaspands 
of  the  Zend  Avesta,  be  well  founded,  it  will  be  made  out  that  Yaruna, 
who  is  one  of  the  Adityas,  must  have  been  worshipped  by  the  Aryans 
before  the  separation  of  the  Persian  from  the  Indian  branch  of  that 
family.  And  this  conclusion  wiU.  be  confirmed  if  we  adopt  the  sug- 
gestion of  Professor  "Whitney, '''''  that  Ahura-Mazda  is  a  devdopment 
of  Varuna. 

I  learn,  however,  from  a  communication  with  which  I  haye  lately 
been  favoured  by  Professor  Spiegel,  of  Erlangen,  that  that  eminent 
Zend  scholar  is  unable  to  recognize  any  similarity  between  Ahura- 
Mazda  and  Varuna,  and  considers  the  connection  of  the  Amsiaspands 
with  the  Adityas  to  be  very  doubtful.''"    The  late  Dr.  "Windischmann 

21"  Joum.  Germ.  Orient.  Society,  vi.  69,  70. 

2^°  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  iii.  327.  "  Ahnra  Mazda,  Ormuzd 
himself  is,"  he  writes,  "  as  is  hardly  to  be  doubted,  a  development  of  Varuna,  the 
Adityas  are  correlatives  of  the  Amshaspands,  there  even  exists  in  the  Persian  religion 
the  same  close  connection  between  Ahura  Mazda  and  Mithra  as  in  the  Indian  between 
Mitra  and  Varuna."  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  term  Asura,  "  spirit,"  vhich  is 
frequently  applied  to  Varuna  and  to  Mitra,  and  also  to  Indra  and  others  of  thfe  Vedio 
gods,  is  the  same  word  which,  in  its  Zend  form,  Ahura,  makes  up,  with  the  jddition 
of ,  Mazda,  the  appellation  of  the  supreme  and  benevolent  deity  of  the  Iranian  my- 
thology. Professor  Miiller  regards  the  names  Ahuro  Mazdao  as  corresponding  to 
the  Sanskrit ^sM™-»»e(^A««,  the  "wise  spirit"  (Lectures  on  the  Science  of  Language, 
first  series,  1st  edition,  p.  195).  See  also  Professor  Benfey's  Glossary  to  the  S^a- 
veda  (1848)  s.v.  medhas,  from  wjiich  it  appears  that  that  scholar  had  adopted  the 
same  identification,  and  considers  the  existing  reading  of  R.V.  viii.  20,  17,  aawcsya 
vedhasah,  to  be  a  corruption  of  aswasya  meihnsah.  But  vedkas  occurs  elsewhere  as 
an  epithet  of  the  gods,  e.g.  of  Vishnu  in  i,  156,  2, 4.  In  the  last  of  these  verses  h?  ia 
styled  marutasya  tiedhasah.  \ 

2"  In  regard  to  Ahura-Mazda  and  the  Amshaspands,  Professor  Spiegel  has,  as  he 
informs  me,  collected  all  the  positive  information  he  could  obtain  in  the  Avesta,  in 
the  Introduction  to  the  3rd  vqI.  of  his  translation,  pp.  iii.  S.  \ 

\ 


AEE  HISTOEICALLT  CONNECTED.  121 

also,  as  Professor  Spiegel  informs  me,  held  Ahura  Mazda  to  be  a  purely 
Iranian  god  (Zoroastriscie  Studien,  p.  122).  And  such  of  the  grounds 
for  regardiDg  Varuna  as  an  older  deity  than  Indra  as  might  otherwise 
have  been  derived  from  the  Zend  Aveata,  -would  be  a  good  deal 
weakened  if  we  could  look  upon  the  Indra  or  Andra  of  the  Zend 
books  as  standing  for  the  same  god  who  was  known  in  India  under 
the  former  name  (see  Spiegel's  Avesta,  i.  10),  and  as  represent- 
ing a  deity  who  had  at  one  time  been  an  object  of  worship  common 
both  to  the  Indian  and  Persian  Aryans,  but  who  after  the  separa- 
tion of  the  two  tribes  was  degraded  by  the  latter  into  an  evil 
spirit.  For  while  Indra  would  thus  be  proved  to  have  been  known 
before  the  period  of  that  separation,  he  might  also  have  been  at  one 
time  a  god  held  by  both  divisions  of  the  Aryas  in  high  consideration  as 
well  as  Varuna.  I  learn,  however,  from  Professor  Spiegel,  that  the 
materials  afforded  by  the  Zend  books  in  reference  to  this  name  are  not 
suflSoient  to  afford  a  basis  for  any  positive  conclusions.'*" 

(11)  Whether  there  are  any  passages  in  the  hymns  which  decisively  shew 
that  InAra  was  swperseAing  Varum. 

Beyond  the  fact  noticed  by  Eoth,  that  Yaruna  is  much  less  fre- 
quently mentioned  in  the  last  than  in  the  earlier  books  of  the  Eig- 
veda,  I  have  not  observed  in  the  hymns  themselves  anything  that  can 

''2  The  identification  of  Andra  with  Indra  was,  as  Professor  Spiegel  tells  me,  first 
proposed  by  Burnouf  (Yas'na  626  ff.),  where  a  translation  is  giTen  of  the  passage  in 
which  Andra  is  mentioned.  It  is  rendered  thus  by  Spiegel  himself,  in  hisAvesta,  i.  176 ; 
"  I  fight  with  Indra,  I  fight  with  S'auru,  I  fight  with  the  Daeva  Naoghaithi,  to  drive 
them  away  from  the  dwelling,  the  Tillage,  the  castle,  the  country."  The  name  Indra 
or  Andra,  as  Prof.  Spiegel  further  informs  me,  occurs  only  in  one  other  passage  (Wester- 
gaard,  Zendavesta,  p.  475),  which  he  (Prof.  S.)  believes  to  be  interpolated.  It  con- 
tains merely  the  name,  and  consequently  throws  no  further  light  on  the  position  of 
the  god  in  the  Avesta.  The  information  found  in  the  later  Parsee  books  regarding 
Indra  or  Andra  is  also  meagre  (compare  Spiegel's  Avesta,  ii.  35).  On  this  subject 
Professor  Spiegel  makes  the  following  remarks,  in  the  Introduction  to  the  3rd  vol.  of 
his  Avesta,  p.  Ixxxi. :  "  It  is  said  by  some  that  the  Andra  of  the  Avesta  is  the  Indra 
of  the  Vedas,  that  Naoghaithya  answers  to  Nasatyas,  and  Saurva  to  Sarva.  Here 
from  a  real  fact  a  quite  incorrect  conclusion  is  drawn.  The  names  are  the  same  in 
both  religious  systems ;  but  how  far  the  things  resemble  each  other  can  never  be 
shown  in  the  same  manner  as  the  similarity  of  Soma  and  Haoma,  etc. ;  for  the  Avesta 
tells  as  nothing  more  than  the  name  of  any  of  the  beings  in  question." 


122  ■WHETHER  THE  HYMNS  POINT  TO  ANT 

be  construed  as  a  decisive  proof  that  the  worship  of  Indra  was  super- 
seding that  of  Varuna  during  the  period  of  their  composition.  It  is 
true  that  even  in  the  earlier  parts  of  the  Veda  the  number  of  hymns 
addressed  to  the  former  god  is  much  greater  than  that  in  which  the 
latter  is  celebrated.  But  I  have  not  discovered  any  expressions  which 
would  distinctly  indicate  that  the  popularity  of  the  one  was  waning, 
and  that  of  the  other  increasing.  There  are,  however,  some  passages 
which,  though  they  do  not  afford  any  clear  indications  in  support  of 
such  a  supposition,  are,  at  all  events,  not  inconsistent  with  its  correct- 
ness. Thus  there  are  several  hymns  in  which  Indra  is  associated  with 
Varuna"'  as  an  object  of  celebration,  and  where  the  two  are  described  as 
acting  in  concert,  viz.,  i.  17  ;  iv.  41 ;  iv.  42  ;  vi.  68  ;  vii.  82 ;  vii.  83; 
vii.  84 ;  vii.  85  ;  etc. ;  and  this  association  of  the  two  might  have 
arisen  from  the  worshippers  of  Indra  desiring  to  enhance  the  dignity 
of  that  god  by  attaching  him  to  the  older  and  more  venerable  deity. 
In  vii.  34,  24,  Varuna  is  said  to  have  Indra  for  his  friend  (  Farumh 
Tndramiha),  but  this  cannot  well  bear  the  interpretation  that  some  of 
their  worshippers  had  been  in  the  habit  of  regarding  them  as  rivals 
and  enemies,  as  in  i.  22,  19,  Vishnu  is  called  the  intimate  friend  of 
Indra  {Indrast/a  yvjyah  salcha).  Indra  and  Varuna  are  called  the  two 
monarchs,  samraja,  and  the  supporters  of  aU.  creatures^"  (i.  17,  1,  2); 
fixed  in  their  designs,  dhrita-vratd  (vi.  68,  10).  Varuna  is  supplicated 
along  with  Indra  to  discharge  a  gleaming  and  violent  thunderbolt 
against  the  worshippers'  enemy  {didyum  aaminn  ojishtham  ugra  ni 
vadhishtam  vajram,  iv.  41,  4),  though  in  most  other  places  (see  above) 
Indra  alone  is  regarded  as  the  thunderer.  In  vii.  82,  2,  it  is  said  that 
one  of  the  two,  Varuna,  is  called  samrat,  monarch  (as  he  is  in  various 
places,  see  above,  p.  60),  and  the  other,  Indra,  is  called  svarat,  inde- 
pendent ruler  (iii.  46,  1,  and  elsewhere  ;  see  i.  61,  9,  above) ;  and 
their  separate  relations  and  functions  are  described  in  other  parts  of 
this  and  the  following  hymns,  vii.  82,  5 :  Jndrd-varuna  yad  imani 
cliak/rathur  vi&na  jatani  Ihuvanasya  majmana  \  Jcshemena  Mitro  Varumm 
duvasyati  MantdbMr  ugrah  iuhham  anyah  lyate  \  6.  Ajamim  aryah 
knathayantam  atirad  dahhrebhir  anyah  pravrinoti  hhuyasah  \   "Indra 

*!'  In  A.V.  iv.  25,  1,  2,  Varuna  and  Vishnu  are  worshipped  together, 
'"■^  Dharttara  eharshamnam.  The  same  epithet  is  applied  to  Mitra  and  Varuna  in  t. 
67,  2 ;  and  Varuna  is  called  charaham-dhrit,  "  supporter  of  creatures,"  in  iv.  1,  2. 


SUPEESESSION  OF  VAEUNA  BY  INDEA.  123 

and  Varuna,  when  ye  formed  all  these  creatures  of  the  world  by  your 
power,  Mitra  waits  upon  Yaruna  with  tranquility,  whilst  the  other 
fierce  (god  i.e.  Indra)  is  resplendent  along  with  the]Maruts.  6.  The 
one  overcomes  the  destructive  enemy ;  the  other  with  few  repels  many." 
yii.  83,  9 :  Vrittrdni  anyah  mmitheshu  jighnate  vratani  anyah  dbhi 
rahshate  sada  \  "  The  one  (Indra)  loves  to  slay  enemies  in  battle;  the 
other  (Yaruna)  always  maintains  his  ordinances."  vii.  84,  2  :  Pari  no 
helo  Ymrumsya  wijyS.li  uruih  nah  Indrah  hrinavad  u  loham  \  "Do  thou 
remove  from  us  the  wrath  of  Yaruna ;  may  Indra  open  to  us  an  ample 
space."  vii.  85,  3  :  Krishtir  anyo  dharayati  praviktdh  vrittrani  anyah 
apratlni  hanti  |  "  The  one  sustains  the  separate  creatures ;  the  other 
slays  unequalled  enemies."  So,  too,  their  joint  action  is  described  in 
other  verses.  Thus  they  are  said  to  have  dug. the  channels  of  the 
rivers,  to  have  impelled  the  sun  in  the  sky  (vii.  82,  3  :  anu  apam 
Tthani  atrintam  ojasd  a  suryam  airayatam  divi  prabhum),  and  to  have 
made  all  creatures  (ibid.  5).  All  the  other  gods  are  said  to  have 
infused  strength  and  vigour  into  these  two  in  the  highest  heaven 
(ibid.  2  :  visve  devasah  parame  vyomani  sam,  vdm  ojo  vrishand  sam  balam 
dadhuh).  These  passages  are  consistent  with  the  supposition  that  the 
two  gods  were  felt  to  have  been  rivals,  and  that  the  author  of  the  hymn 
sought  to  reconcile  their  conflicting  claims,  but  they  are  not  conclusive, 
for  Yishnu  and  Indra  are  also  joined  together  in  the  same  way  in  some 
hymns,  i.  155;  vi.  69 ;  vii.  99,  4  ff.  (see  the  4th  Yol.  of  this  work,  pp. 
64,  71,  74  ff.) ;  as  are  also  Agni  and  Indra  in  others,  i.  21 ;  i.  108 ;  i. 
109  ;  iii.  12  ;  v.  86  ;  vi.  59  ;  Indra  and  Yayu  in  iv.  46-48  ;  Indra  and 
Pushan  in  vi.  57 ;  Indra  and  Soma  in  vi.  72  ;  vii.  104. 

A  number  of  verses  occur  in  different  parts  of  the  Eig-veda  (viz.  i. 
133,  1 ;  iv.  23,  7 ;  v.  2,  3 ,  vii.  18,  16 ;  x.  27,  6 ;  x.  48,  7)  in  which 
the  epithet  anindra,  "one  who  is  no  worshipper  of  Indra,"  is  em- 
ployed ;  but  it  does  not  appear  that  it  is  applied  to  persons  who  were 
not  worshippers  of  Indra  in  particular,  as  distinguished  from  other 
Aryan  gods,  but  either  to  the  aboriginal  tribes,  who  did  not  worship 
either  him  or  any  other  Aryan  god,  or  to  irreligious  Aryas,  or  rather, 
perhaps  generally,  to  evil  spirits  as  the  enemies  of  Indra.  In  other 
places  (as  I  have  above  noticed,  p.  104,)  we  find  sceptical  doubts  ex- 
pressed regarding  Indra. 

The  twelfth  hymn  of  the  second  book  is  devoted  to  the  glorification 


124  "WHETHER  THE  HYMNS  POINT  TO  ANY 

of  Indra.  The  first  and  second  verses  are  as  follows :  1.  To  j'Sta^ 
eva  prathamo  manasvdn  devo  devan  hratuna  pa/ryabhuahat  \  yasya  ^ush- 
mad  vodasi  ahhyaset&fh,  nrimnasya  mahna  sa  j'andaah  Indrah  |  2.  Yah 
pritkwim  vyathamandm  adrimhad  yah  parvatdn  prakwpit&n  armm&t  \ 
yo  antariksham  vimame  variyo  yo  dydm  astahhndt  sa  j'andsah  Indralji  \ 
"1.  He  wto,  as  soon  as  born,  the  first,  the  -wise,  surpassed  the  gods  in 
force :  at  whose  might  the  two  worlds  trembled,  through  the  greatness 
of  his  strength,  he,  o  men,  is  Indra.  2.  He  who  fixed  the  quivering 
earth,  who  settled  the  agitated  mountains,  who  meted  out  the  vast 
atmosphere,  who  established  the  sky, — ^he,  o  men,  is  Indra."  The 
following  verses  all  end  in  the  same  way,  by  declaring  that  Indra  is  he 
who  had  performed  the  several  acts,  or  possessed  the  various  powers, 
which  they  specify.  This  might  appear  as  a  polemical  assertion, 
against  gainsay ers,  of  Indra' s  claims  to  recognition  as  a  fit  object  of 
worship.^'^ 

In  X.  48,  11,  Indra  is  introduced  as  saying:  Aditydndm  VasHndm 
rudriydnd'ih  devo  devdndm  na  mindmi  dhdma  \  te  md  Ihadrdya  ^wvase 
tatakskur  apardjitam  astritam  asMlJiam  \  "I,  a  god,  do  not  assail  the 
rank  (or  glory)  of  the  Adityas,  the  Vasus,  or  the  sons  of  Eudra,  who 
have  fashioned  me  for  glorious  power,  and  made  me  unconquerable, 
irreversible,  and  unassailable." 

In  viii.  51,  2,  it  is  said :  Ayvjo  asamo  nrtbhir  ehah  hrishttr  aydsyah  j 
pitrvlr  ati  pra  vavridhe  visvd  j'dtdni  qfasd  ityddi  \  7.  Viive  te  Indra 
vlryafh  devdh  anu  hratufh  daduh  \  12.  Satyam  id  vai  u  tarn  vayam 
Jndram  stavdma  ndnritam  \  mahdn  asunvato  vadho  IJiuri  jyoUmshi  sun- 
vatah  I  "  2.  "Without  a  feUow,  unequalled  by  men,  Indra,  alone,  un- 
oonquered,  has  surpassed  in  power  many  tribes  and  all  creatures.  7. 
AH  the  gods  yield  to  the  Indra  in  valour  and  strength.  12.  May  we 
praise  Indra  truly  and  not  falsely :  great  destruction  falls  upon  him 
who  pours  out  no  libations  to  Indra,"'*  while  he  who  does  ofier  them  is 
blessed  with  abundant  light." 

In  iv.  30,  1  ff.  Indra  is  described  as  having  no  superior  or  equal 
{N'aUr  Indra  tvad  uttaro  na  jydydn  asti  Vrittrahan  \  nakir  eva  yathd 

2'5  There  ia  another  hymn  (x.  86),  each  verse  of  which  ends  with  the  words  "Indra 
is  superior  to  all ; "  but  the  drift  of  the  hymn  is  too  obscure  to  admit  of  my  deter- 
mining whether  it  has  any  polemical  tendency  or  not. 

216  This  sentiment  appears  to  be  repeated  from  i.  101,  4. 


StrPEESESSION  OP  VAEtTNA  BY  INDEA.  125 

tvam),  and  as  having  alone  conquered  all  the  gods  in  battle.  And  in 
vii.  21,  7,  it  is  said  that  even  the  former  gods  suhordinated  their  powers 
to  his  divine  glory  and  kingly  dignity  {devai  chit  te  aswryyaya  pHrvi 
anu  hshattraya  mamire  sahdMsi).  In  the  following  passages  (formerly 
quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  85  ff.),  it  is  said  that  all 
of  the  gods  are  unable  to  frustrate  the  mighty  deeds  and  counsels 
of  Indra  (ii.  32,  4) ;  that  no  one,  whether  god  or  man,  either  sur- 
passes or  equals  him  (vi.  30,  4) ;  that  no  one,  celestial  or  terrestrial, 
has  been  bom,  or  shall  be  born,  like  to  him  (vii.  32,  23);  and  that  by 
battle  he  has  acquired  ample  space  (or  wealth)  for  the  gods  (vii.  98,  3). 
It  is  even  said  (i.  101,  3)  that  Varuna  and  Surya  are  subject  to  the 
command  of  Indra  {yasya  vrate  Varuno  yasya  Suryaf) ;  and  in  x.  89, 
8,  9,  the  latter  is  besought  to  destroy  the  enemies  of  Mitra,  Aryaman, 
and  Varuna  (thereby  evincing,  of  course,  his  superiority  to  those  three 
gods)  {pra  ye  Mitrasya  Varunasya  dhama  yujam  na  janah  minanti 
Mitram  |  9.  Pra  ye  Mitram  pra  Aryamamm  dv/revah  pra  mngirah  pra 
Va/runam  minanti  I  ni  amitreshu  vadham  Indra  tumram  vrishan  vrisMnam 


All  these  texts,  however,  which  are  so  laudatory  of  Indra,  may  be 
paralleled  in  the  Rig-veda,  not  only  by  similar  ones  referring  to  Mitra 
and  Varuna  (as  we  have  seen  above),  but  also  by  a  farther  set  of  texts, 
in  which  other  gods  are  magnified  in  the  same  style  of  panegyric. 
This  is  in  accordance  with  the  practice  of  the  Indian  poets  to  exag- 
gerate ""  (in  a  manner  which  renders  them  often  mutually  inconsistent) 
the  attributes  of  the  particular  deity  who  happens  at  the  moment  to  be 
the  object  of  celebration.  Thus  in  ii.^  38,  9,  it  is  said  that  neither 
Indra,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman,  nor  Eudra  can  resist  the  ordinance  of 
Savitri  {na  yasya  Indro  Varuno  na  Mitro  vratam  Aryama  na  minanti 
Eudrah)  ;  and  in  vii.  38,  4,  that  the  divine  Aditi,  and  the  kings  Varuna, 
Mitra,  and  Aryaman  unite  to  magnify  the  same  deity  {abhi  yam  devl 
Aditih  grindti  savafh  devasya  Sa/oititr  jushdna  |  ahhi  samrajo  Varuno 
grinanti  ahhi  Mitraso  Aryama  sajoshah).  Again,  in  i.  156,  4,  it  is 
declared  that  king  Varuna  and  the  Asvins  submit  to  the  power  of 
Vishnu  [tarn  asya  rajd.  Varunas  tarn  Aivina  kratum  saoJiante  Marutasya 
vedhasah).  In  i.  141,  9,  Varuna,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman  are  said  to 
triumph  through  Agni  when  he  blazes  forth  {tvaya  hi  Agne  Varuno 
"'  See  Mullet's  Anc.  Ind.  Lit.  pp.  632  ff. 


126  METEICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDEA. 

dhritavrato  Mitrah  iaiadre  Aryama).  In  iv.  5,  4,  the  same  god  is 
besought  to  consume  those  enemies  who  menace  the  stable  abodes '''  of 
Varuna  and  the  wise  Mitra  ( pra  tan  Agnvr  labhasat  .  .  .  pra  ye  'mi- 
nanti  Varumsya  dhama  priya  Mitrasya  chetato  dkrmdni).  If,  therefore, 
we  were  to  infer  from  passages  like  i.  101,  3  (which  declares  Yaruna 
and  Surya  to  be  subject  to  Indra),  that  the  worship  of  Indra  was 
beginning  to  gain  ground  on  that  of  Varuna,  we  should  have,  in  like 
manner,  to  conclude  from- the  other  texts  just  cited,  that  the  worship 
of  Savitri,  or  Yishnu,  or  Agni,  was  beginning  to  supersede  that  of  aU 
the  other  deities  who  are  there  subordinated  to  them,  not  excepting 
Indra  himself. 

(12)  Indra  as  represented  in  the  hymns  ; — a  metrical  sleetch. 

In  the  following  verses  I  have  endeavoured  to  combine  in  one 
picture  the  most  salient  and  characteristic  points  in  the  represen- 
tations of  Indra,  which  are  contained  in  the  hymns.  It  wUl  be  seen 
that  some  parts  of  the  sketch  are  translations,  nearly  literal,  of  verses 
occurring  there ;  that  other  portions  are  condensed  summaries  of  epi- 
thets, or  descriptions,  which  are  by  far  too  numerous  and  too  similar 
to  each  other  to  be  all  reproduced  in  detail ;  and  that  a  third  class  of 
passages  contains  an  amplification,  and  not  an  approximate  rendering, 
of  the  texts  of  the  original  on  which  they  are  founded. 

(1)  Invitation  of  Indra  to  the  sacrifice. 

Hear,  Indra,  mighty  Thunderer,  hear, 
Bright  regent  of  the  middle  sphere  ; 
List  while  we  sweetly  sing  thy  praise. 
In  new,  and  well-constructed,  lays, 
Hymns  deftly  framed  by  poet  skilled. 
As  artizans  a  chariot  build. 
Come,  Indra,  come,  thou  much-invoked, 
Our  potent  hymn  thy  steeds  has  yoked  ; 
Thy  golden  car  already  waits 
Thy  pleasure  at  thy  palace-gates  : 

219  Ordinances. — Eoth;  s.v.  dhaman. 


METEICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDEA.  127 

Priend  Lidra,  from  tte  sky  descend, 
Thy  course  propitious  hither  bend ; 
Come  straight,  and  may  no  rival  priest 
Prevail  to  draw  thee  from  our  feast. 
Let  no  one  catch  thee  unawares. 
Like  bird  the  artful  fowler  snares. 
All  is  prepared ;  the  Soma  draught 
Is  sweet  as  thou  hast  ever  quaffed ; 
And  we  will  feed  with  com,  and  tend. 
Thy  coursers  at  their  journey's  end. 
But,  Indra,  though  of  us  thou  thinkest. 
And  our  libations  gladly  drinkest, 
We,  mortal  men,  can  only  share 
A  humble  portion  of  thy  care. 
"We  know  how  many  potent  ties 
Enchain  thee  in  thy  paradise. 
Thou  hast  at  home  a  lovely  wife. 
The  charm  and  solace  of  thy  life ; 
Thou  hast  a  ceaseless  round  of  joys, 
"Which  all  thy  circling  hours  employs — 
Joys  such  as  gods  immortal  know, 
TJnguessed  by  mortals  here  below. 
But,  brother  Indra,  come,  benign, 
Accept  our  gifts,  thou  friend  divine. 
Come,  Indra,  come  in  eager  haste, 
Our  hymns  to  hear,  our  food  to  taste, 
Like  lover  lured  by  female  charms, 
"Who  rushes  to  his  mistress'  arms. 
Accept  our  sweet  and  grateful  song ; 
Come,  we  wiU  not  detain  thee  long. 

(2)  ]n&ra!s  birth. 

Hear,  Indra,  while  thy  birth  we  sing. 
The  deeds,  thy  greatness,  glorious  king. 
Old  father  Sky""  and  mother  Earth 
Both  quaked,  confounded  at  thy  birth. 
219  Byaus  =  Zeis. 


128  METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDRA. 

The  Sky  exclaimed,  at  that  great  sight, 

"  Thy  father  -was  a  stalwart  wight  ; 

Of  most  consummate  skill  was  he. 

The  god  whose  genius  fashioned  thee." 

This  infant  of  unrivalled  force 

Sprang  forth  from  a  transcendant  source. 

A  Messed  mother  bore  the  child, 

And  fondly  on  her  offspring  smiled,^ 

Foretelling  then,  with  pride  and  joy, 

The  might  and  glory  of  the  boy* 

He  needed  not  a  tedious  length 

Of  autumns  to  mature  his  strength ; 

His  force  he  felt  as  soon  as  bom. 

And  laughed  aU  hostile  powers  to  scorn. 

Grasping  his  deadly  shafts,  in  pride 

Of  prowess,  thus  the  infant  cried : — 

"  Where,  mother,  dweU  those  warriors  fierce 

Whose  haughty  hearts  these  bolts  must  pierce  ?" 

And  when  thy  father  proved  thy  foe, 

Thy  fury,  Indra,  laid  him  low. 

"Who  vainly  sought  thy  life  to  take, 

When  thou  didst  sleep,  when  thou  didst  wake  ? 

Who,  Indra,  in  his  vengeful  mood,, 

Thy  mother  doomed  to  widowhood  ? 

What  god  stood  by,  thy  wrath  to  fire. 

When,  seizing  by  the  foot  thy  sire. 

Thou  smot'st  him  dead,  in  youthful  ire  ? 

(3)  Indra'g  arrival. 

Eulfilling  now  our  ardent  prayer, 
The  god  approaches  through  the  air. 
On,  on,  he  comes,  majestic,  bright. 
Our  longed-for  friend  appears  in  sight. 
His  brilliant  form,  beheld  afar, 
Towers  stately  on  his  golden  car. 
Pair  sunlike  lustre,  godlike  grace. 
And  martial  fire  illume  his  face. 


METRICAL   SKETCH   OF   INDEA.  129 

Yet  not  one  form  alone  he  bears, 
But  various  shapes  of  glory  -wears, 
His  aspects  changing  at  his  will, 
Transmuted,  yet  resplendent  still. 
In  -warlike  semblance  see  him  stand, 
Red  lightnings  wielding  in  his  hand. 
The  heavenly  steeds,  his  shining  team, 
"With  aU  the  peacock's  colours  gleam. 
Resistless,  snorting,  on  they  fly. 
As  swift  as  thought,  across  the  sky ; 
And  soon  bring  nigh  their  mighty  lord. 
To  us,  his  friends,  a  friend  adored. 
Now  Indra  from  the  sky  descends  ; 
Yes,  yes,  to  us  his  way  he  wends. 
Although  we  see  him  not,  we  know 
He  now  is  present  here  below. 
"Within  our  hallowed  precincts  placed. 
He  longs  our  grateful  feast  to  taste. 

(4)  Indra  invited  to  drink  the  Soma  draught. 

Thou,  Indra,  oft  of  old  hast  quaffed 
With  keen  delight  our  Soma  draught. 
All  gods  the  luscious  Soma  love. 
But  thou  all  other  gods  above. 
Thy  mother  knew  how  well  this  juice 
Was  fitted  for  her  infant's  use. 
Into  a  cup  she  crushed  the  sap. 
Which  thou  didst  sip  upon  her  lap. 
Yes,  Indra,  on  thy  natal  mom. 
The  very  hour  that  thou  wast  bom. 
Thou  didst  those  jovial  tastes  display 
Which  stiU  survive  in  strength  to-day. 
And  once,  thou  prince  of  genial  souls. 
Men  say  thou  drainedst  thirty  bowls. 
To  thee  the  soma-draughts  proceed. 
As  streamlets  to  the  lake  they  feed. 
Or  rivers  to  the  ocean  speed. 


130  METRICAL   SKETCH    OF   INDEA. 

Our  cup  is  foaming  to  the  brim 
"With.  Soma  pressed  to  sound  of  hymn. 
Come,  drink,  thy  utmost  craving  slake, 
Like  thirsty  stag  iu  forest  lake, 
Or  bull  that  roams  in  arid  waste, 
And  bums  the  cooling  brook  to  taste. 
Indulge  thy  taste,  and  quaff  at  will ; 
Drink,  drink  agaia,  profasely  swill, 
Drink,  thy  capacious  stomach  fill. 

(5)  Praise  of  Soma. 

This  Soma  is  a  god ;  he  cures 
The  sharpest  ills  that  man  endures. 
He  heals  the  sick,  the  sad  he  cheers. 
He  nerves  the  weak,  dispels  their  fears, 
The  faiut  with  martial  ardour  fires, 
"With  lofty  thoughts  the  bard  iospires, 
The  soul  from  earth  to  heaven  he  lifts ; 
So  great  and  wondrous  are  his  gifts. 
Men  feel  the  god  within  their  veins. 
And  cry  in  loud  exulting  strains : 
"  We've  quaffed  the  Soma  bright, 
And  are  immortal  grown ; 
"We've  entered  into  light. 
And  all  the  gods  have  known. 
"What  mortal  now  can  harm. 
Or  foeman  vex  us  more  ? 
Through  thee  beyond  alarm. 
Immortal  god,  we  soar." 
The  gods  themselves  with  pleasure  feel 
King  Soma's  influence  o'er  them  steal ; 
And  Indra  once,  as  bards  have  told. 
Thus  sang  in  merry  mood  of  old  : — 

(6)  Ind/ra's  drinki/ng-song. 

"  Yes,  yes,  I  will  be  generous  now, 
And  grant  the  bard  a  horse  and  cow  : 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OP  INDRA.  131 

I've  qtiaffed  the  soma-dratiglit. 
These  draughts  impel  me  with  the  force 
Of  blasts  that  sweep  ia  furious  course  : 
I've  quaffed  the  soma-draught.. 
They  drive  me  like  a  car  that  speeds, 
When  whirled  a.long  by  flying  steeds. 
These  hymns  approach  me  fondly  now, 
As  hastes  to  calf  the  mother-cow. 
I  turn  them  over  as  I  muse, 
As  carpenter  the  log  he  hews. 
The  tribes  of  men,  the  nations  all, 
I  count  as  something  very  small. 
Both  worlds,  how  vast  soe'er  they  be, 
Don't  equal  even  the  half  of  me. 

The  heaven  in  greatness  I  surpass. 

And  this  broad  earth,  though  vast  her  mass. 

Come,  let  me  as  a  plaything  seize, 

And  toss  her  wheresoe'er  I  please. 

Come,  let  me  smite  with  vigorous  blow,. 

And  send  her  flying  to  and  fro. 

My  haK  is  in.  the  heavenly  sphere, 

I've  drawn  the  other  half  down  here. 

How  great  my  glory  and  my  power !. 

Aloft  into  the  skies  I  tower. 

I'm  ready  now  to  mount  in  air. 

Oblations  to  the  gods  to  bear  : 

I've  quaffed  the  Soma-draught..^^ 

(7)  Indra  drinks  the  libation. 

And  not  in  vain  the  mortal  prays, 
For  nothing  loth  the  god  obeys. 

The  proffered  bowl  he  takes ; 
"Well  trained  the  generous  juice  to  drain. 
He  quaffs  it  once,  he  quaffs  again. 

Till  all  his  thirst  he  slakes.. 

2*0  This  "drinking  song"  is  a  translation,  as  we  have  already  seen,  p.  91,  nearly 
literal,  of  the  119th  hymn  of  the  10th  Book  of  the  Rig-veda. 


132  METEICAl,   SKETCH  OF  INDEA. 

And  soon  its  power  the  Soma  shows, 
Througli  India's  veins  the  influence  flows, 

With  fervour  flushed  he  stands  ; 
His  forehead  glows,  his  eyes  are  fired. 
His  mighty  frame  with  force  inspired, 

His  towering  form  expands. 
He  straightway  oaUs  his  hrave  aUies, 
To  valorous  deeds  exhorts,  and  cries — 

"  Stride,  Vishnu,  forward  stride  ; 
Come,  Maruts,  forth  with  me  to  war. 
See  yonder  Vrittra  stands  afar, 
And  waits  the  coming  of  my  car ; 

"We  soon  shall  crush  his  pride." 

(8)  Ini/ra,  attended  ly  the  Maruts,  sets  out  to  encounter  Vrittra. 

Amid  the  plaudits,  long  and  loud. 
Which  hurst  from  all  the  heavenly  crowd, 
Charmed  hy  the  sweet  and  magic  sound 
Of  hymns  pronounced  hy  bards  renowned, 
Viewed  by  admiring  troops  of  friends. 
The  valiant  god  his  car  ascends. 
Swept  by  his  fervid  bounding  steeds. 
Athwart  the  sky  the  hero  speeds. 
The  Marut-hosts  his  escort  form. 
Impetuous  spirits  of  the  storm. 
On  flashing  Ughtning-cars  they  ride. 
And  gleam  in  warlike  pomp  and  pride  : 
Each  head  a  golden  helmet  crests. 
And  glittering  mail  adorns  their  breasts ; 
Spears  on  their  shoulders  rest,  their  hands 
Bear  arrows,  bows,  and  lightning-brands. 
Bright  tinkling  anklets  deck  their  feet. 
And  thought  than  they  is  not  more  fleet ; 
Like  lions'  roar  their  voice  of  doom  ; 
With  iron  force  their  teeth  consume. 
The  hills,  the  earth  itself,  they  shake. 
All  creatures  at  their  coming  quake ; 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDEA.  133 

Their  headlong  fury  none  can  stay, 
All  obstacles  axe  swept  away. 
The  forest's  leafy  monarchs  tall 
Before  their  onset  crashing  fall, 
As  when  in  fierce  destructive  mood' 
"Wnd  elephants  invade  a  wood. 

(9)  Indrds  conflict  with  Vrittra. 

Who  is  it  that,  without  alarm. 
Defies  the  might  of  Indra's  arm ; 
That  stands  and  sees  without  dismay 
The  approaching  Maruts'  dread  array ; 
That  does  not  shun,  ia  wild  affright, 
The  terrors  of  the  deadly  fight  ? 
'Tis  Yrittra,**'  he  whose  magic  powers 
From  earth  withhold  the  genial  showers, 
Of  mortal  men  the  foe  malign. 
And  rival  of  the  race  divine, 
Whose  demon  hosts  from  age  to  age 
With  Indra  war  unceasing  wage. 
Who,  times  unnumbered,  crushed  and  slain, 
Is  ever  newly  bom  again. 
And  evermore  renews  the  strife 
In  which  again  he  forfeits  life. 
Perched  on  a  steep  aerial  height. 
Shone  Vrittra's  stately  fortress  bright. 
Upon  the  wall,  in  martial  mood, 
The  bold  gigantic  demon  stood. 
Confiding  in  his  magic  arts, 
And  armed  with  store  of  fiery  daits. 
And  then  was  seen  a  dreadful  sight, 
When  god  and  demon  met  in  fight. 
His  sharpest  missiles  Vrittra  shot, 
His  thunderbolts  and  lightnings  hot 
He  hurled  as  thick  as  rain. 

231  The  demon  who  personifies  drought,  and  is  also  called  S'ushna  and  AM. 


134  METEICAL   SKETCH    OF   INDEA. 

The  god  his  fiercest  rage  defied, 
His  blunted  ■weapons  glanced  aside, 

At  Indra  launched  in  vain. 
"When  thus  he  long  had  Tainly  toiled. 
When  all  his  weapons  had  recoiled, 
His  final  efforts  had  been  foiled, 

And  all  his  force  consumed, — 
In  gloomy  and  despairing  mood 
The  baffled  demon  helpless  stood. 

And  knew  his  end  was  doomed. 
The  lightnings  then  began  to  flash. 
The  direful  thunderbolts  to  crash, 

By  Indra  proudly  hurled. 
The  gods  themselves  with  awe  were  stilled 
And  stood  aghast,  and  terror  filled 

The  universal  world. 
Even  Tvashtri  sage,  whose  master-hand 
Had  forged  the  bolts  his  art  had  planned, 

"Who  well  their  temper  knew, — 
Quailed  when  he  heard  the  dreadful  clang 
That  through  the  quivering  welkin  rang, 

As  o'er  the  sky  they  flew. 
And  who  the  arrowy  shower  could  stand. 
Discharged  by  Indra's  red  right  hand, — 
The  thunderbolts  with  hundred  joints, 
The  iron  shafts  with  thousand  points, 
"Which  blaze  and  hiss  athwart  the  sky. 
Swift  to  their  mark  unerring  fly. 
And  lay  the  proudest  foemen  low, 
"With  sudden  and  resistless  blow, 
"Whose  very  sound  can  put  to  flight 
The  fools  who  dare  the  Thunderer's  might  ? 
And  soon  the  knell  of  Vrittra's  doom 
"Was  sounded  by  the  clang  and  boom 

Of  Indra's  iron  shower ; 
Pierced,  cloven,  crushed,  with  horrid  yell. 
The  dying  demon  headlong  fell 


METEICAL  SKETCH  OP  INDRA.  135 

Down  from  his  cloud-built  tower. 
Wow  bound  by  S'uslina's  spell  no  more, 
The  clouds  discharge  their  Hquid  store  ; 
And,  long  by  torrid  sunbeams  baked. 
The  plains  by  copious  showers  are  slaked ; 
The  rivers  swell,  and  sea-ward  sweep 
Their  turbid  torrents  broad  and  deep. 
The  peasant  views,  with  deep  delight 
And  thankful  heart,  the  auspicious  sight. 
His  leafless  fields,  so  sere  and  sad, 
Wni  soon  with  waving  crops  be  clad. 
And  mother  Earth,  now  brown  and  bare, 
A  robe  of  brilliant  green  will  wear. 
And  now  the  clouds  disperse,  the  blue 
Of  heaven  once  more  comes  forth  to  view. 
The  sun  shines  out,  all  nature  smiles, 
Eedeemed  from  Vrittra's  power  and  wiles ; 
The  gods,  with  gratulations  meet. 
And  loud  acclaim,  the  victor  greet ; 
WhUe  Indra's  mortal  votaries  sing 
The  praises  of  their  friend  and  kiag. 
The  frogs,  too,  dormant  long,  awake. 
And  floating  on  the  brimming  lake, 
In  loud  responsive  croak  unite. 
And  swell  the  chorus  of  delight. 

(10)  Indrdls  greatness. 

What  poet  now,  what  sage  of  old. 

The  greatness  of  that  god  hath  told, 

"Who  from  his  body  vast  gave  birth 

To  father  Sky  and  mother  Earth  ; 

Who  hung  the  heavens  in  empty  space. 

And  gave  the  earth  a  stable  base  ; 

■Who  framed  and  lighted  up  the  sun, 

And  made  a  path  for  him  to  run  ; 

Whose  power  transcendent,  siace  their  birth 

Asunder  holds  the  heaven  and  earth. 


136  METRICAL   SKETCH    OF   INDEA. 

As  chariot-wlieels  axe  kept  apart 
By  axles  framed  by  workmen's  art  ? 
In  greatness  ■who  with.  TTiTn  can  vie, 
"Who  fills  the  earth,  the  air,  the  sky, 
Whose  presence  nnpereeived  extends 
Beyond  the  world's  remotest  ends  ? 
A  hundred  earths,  if  such  there  be, 
A  hundred  skies  fall  short  of  thee  ; 
A  thousand  suns  would  not  outshine 
The  eflPulgence  of  thy  Ught  divine. 
The  worlds,  which  mortals  boundless  deem, 
To  thee  but  as  a  handful  seem. 
Thou,  Indra,  art  without  a  peer 
On  earth,  or  yonder  heavenly  sphere. 
Thee,  god,  such  matchless  powers  adorn. 
That  thou  without  a  foe  wast  bom. 
Thou  art  the  universal  lord, 
By  gods  revered,  by  men  adored. 
Should  all  the  other  gods  conspire. 
They  could  not  frustrate  thy  desire. 
The  circling  years,  which  wear  away 
All  else,  to  thee  bring  no  decay ; 
Thou  bloomest  on  in  youthful  force, 
While  countless  ages  run  their  course. 
TJnvexed  by  cares,  or  fears,  or  strife, 
In  bHss  serene  flows  on  thy  Hfe. 

(11)  Indra^s  relations  to  Ms  worshippers. 

Thou,  Indra,  art  a  friend,  a  brother, 
A  kinsman  dear,  a  father,  mother. 
Though  thou  hast  troops  of  friends,  yet  we 
Can  boast  no  other  friend  but  thee. 
With  this  our  hymn  thy  skirt  we  grasp. 
As  boys  their  father's  garments  clasp  ; 
Our  ardent  prayers  thy  form  embrace, 
As  women's  arms  their  lords  enlace  ; 


METEICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDBA.  137 

They  round  thee  cling  with  gentle  force, 

Like  saddle-girth  around  a  horse. 

"With  faith  we  claim  thine  aid  divine, 

For  thou  art  ours,  and  we  are  thiae. 

Thou  art  not  deaf;  though  far  away, 

Thou  hearest  all,  whate'er  we  pray. 

And  be  not  like  a  lazy  priest. 

Who  battens  at  the  dainty  feast, 

Sits  still  in  self-indulgent  ease. 

And  only  cares  himself  to  please. 

Come,  dole  not  out  with  niggard  hand 

The  briUiant  boons  at  thy  command. 

Thy  gracious  hands  are  wont  to  grant 

Profusely  all  thy  servants  want. 

Why  is  it,  then,  thou  sittest  still. 

And  dost  not  now  our  hopes  fulfil  ? 

If  I  were  thou,  and  thou  wert  I, 

My  suppliant  should  not  vainly  cry. 

Wert  thou  a  mortal,  I  divine. 

In  want  I  ne'er  would  let  thee  pine. 

Had  I,  like  thee,  unbounded  power, 

I  gifts  on  aU  my  friends  would  shower. 

Shed  wealth,  as  trees,  when  shaken,  raia 

Their  ripe  fruit  down  upon  the  plain. 

Thy  strong  right  hand,  great  god,  we  hold 

With  eager  grasp,  imploring  gold. 

Thou  canst  our  longings  all  fulfil. 

If  such  shall  only  be  thy  will. 

Like  headlong  bull's,  thy  matchless  force 

Strikes  aU  things  down  that  bar  thy  course. 

Art  thou  to  gracious  acts  inclined  ? 

Then  who  shall  make  thee  change  thy  mind  ? 

Abundant  aids  shoot  forth  from  thee, 

As  leafy  boughs  from  vigorous  tree. 

To  wifeless  men  thou  givest  wives, 

And  joyful  mak'st  their  joyless  Uves. 


138  METEICAL   SKETCH    OP   INDEA. 

Thou  givest  sons,  courageous,  strong, 

To  guard  their  aged  sires  from  wrong. 

Lands,  jewels,  horses,  herds  of  kine, — 

All  kinds  of  wealth  are  gifts  of  thine. 

Thy  friend  is  never  slain ;  his  might 

Is  never  worsted  in  the  fight. 

Yes,  those  who  in  the  battle's  shock, 

Thine  aid,  victorious  god,  invoke, 

"With  force  inspired,  with  deafening  shout 

Of  triumph,  put  their  foes  to  rout. 

Thou  blessest  those  thy  praise  who  sing, 

And  plenteous  gifts  devoutly  bring ; 

But  thou  chastisest  aU  the  proud. 

The  niggard,  and  the  faithless  crowd, 

"Who  thine  existence  doubt,  and  cry 

In  scorn,  "  B"o  Indra  rules  on  high." 

The  rich  can  ne'er  thy  favourites  be. 

The  rich  who  never  think  of  thee. 

"When  storms  are  lulled,  and  skies  are  bright, 

Wine-swillers  treat  thee  with  despite. 

"When  clouds  coUect  and  thunders  roar. 

The  scoffers  tremble  and  adore. 

No  deed  is  done  but  thou  dost  see  ; 

'No  word  is  said  unheard  by  thee. 

The  fates  of  mortals  thou  dost  wield ; 

To  thy  decree  the  strongest  yield. 

Thou  dost  the  high  and  fierce  abase. 

The  lowly  raisest  in  their  place. 

But  thy  true  friends  secure  repose, 

By  thee  redeemed  from  all  their  woes, 

Prom  straits  brought  forth  to  ample  room, 

To  glorious  light  from  thickest  gloom. 

And  thou  dost  view  with  special  grace, 

The  fair-complexioned  Aryan  race. 

Who  own  the  gods,  their  laws  obey, 

And  pious  homage  duly  pay. 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDRA.  139 

Thou  giv'st  us  torses,  cattle,  gold. 

As  thou  didst  give  our  sires  of  old. 

Thou  sweep'st  a-way  the  dark-sMimed  brood, 

Inhuman,  lawless,  senseless,  rude, 

"Who  know  not  Indra,  hate  his  friends, 

And  spoil  the  race  which  he  defends. 

Chase,  far  away  the  robhers  chase, 

Slay  those  barbarians  black  and  base  ; 

And  save  us,  Indra,  from  the  spite 

Of  sprites  that  haunt  us  ia  the  night. 

Our  rites  disturb  by  contact  vile. 

Our  hallowed  offerings  defile. 

Preserve  us,  friend,  dispel  our  fears, 

And  let  us  live  a  hundred  yeaxs. 

And  when  our  earthly  course  we've  run, 

And  gain'd  the  region  of  the  Sun, 

Then  let  us  live  ia  ceaseless  glee. 

Sweet  nectar  quaffing  there  with  thee. 


140 


SECTION    YII. 


PARJANTA. 


The  following  hymn,  E.V.  v.  83,  affords  a  picturesque  description  of 
Parjanya,  the  thundering  rain-god  : 

V.  83,  1.  Achha  vada  tavasam  girbhir  alhih  stuhi  JPmy'anyam  namasd 
avivdsa  |  Icanikradad  vrishahho  jirad&nuh  reto  dadhati  oskadhishu  gar- 
IJiam  I  2.  Vi  vrilcshan  hanti  uta  hanti  rakshaso  vUvam  hibhaya  Ihmanam 
mahavadhdt  \  uta  andgdl^  uhate  vriahnydvato  yat  Pa/rjanyah  stanayan 
hanti  dushkritah  \  3.  Rathlva  kaiayd  'ivdn  ahhikshipann  dvir  dutdn 
hrinute  varshyan  aha  \  durdt  simhasya  stanathdh  ud  irate  yat  Parjanyah 
krinute  varshyam  nahhah  \  4.  Pra  vdtdh  vdnti  patayanti  vidyutah  ud 
oshadMr  jihate  pinvaie  svah  |  ira  vihasmai  hhuvandya  jdyate  yat  Par- 
janyah prithivlm,  retasd  'vati  |  5.  Yasya  vrate  prithivi  namnamlti  yasya 
vrate  iaphavaf  Jarbhwlii  \  yasya  vrate  oshadMr  visvarupdh  sa  nah  Par- 
janya mahi  hrma  y achha  \  6.  Divo  no  vrishtim  Maruto  raridhvam  pra 
pinvata  vrishno  asvasya  dhdrdh  |  arvdn  etena  stanayitnund  a  ihi  apo 
nishinohann  asurah  pitd  nah  \  7.  Ahhi  hranda  stanaya  garhham  a  dhdh 
udanvatd  pari  diya  rathena  \  dritim  su  karsha  nishitam  nyancham  samdh 
hhavantu  udvato  nipdddh  \  8.  Mahdntam  koiam  ud  acha  nishincha  syan- 
dantdm  kulydh  vishitdh  purastdt  \  ghritena  dydvd-prithivl  vi  undhi 
svprapdnam  ihavatu  aghnydhhyah  \  9.  Tat  Parjanya  hanikradat  stana- 
yan hamsi  dushkritah  |  prati  idafh  viham  modate  yat  kineha  prithivyam 
adhi  I  10.  Avarshir  varsham  ud  u  su  grilhdya  aka/r  dhanvani  ati 
etavai  u  \  qjijanah  oshadMr  bhojanaya  kam  uta  prajdbhyo  avido  ma- 
nishdm  I 

1.  "Address  the  powerful  (god)  with  these  words ;  laud  Prajanya ; 

worship  him  with  reverence  :  the  procreative  and  stimulating  fructifier, 

resounding,  sheds  his  seed  and  impregnates  the  plants.    2.  He  splits 

the  trees,  he  destroys  the  Eakshases  j  the  whole  creation  is  afraid  of 


PAEJANYA.  141 

the  mighty  stroke;  even  the  innocent  man  flees  before  the  vigorous 
god,  when  Parjanya  thundering  smites  the  evil  doers.'"'  3.  Like  a 
charioteer  urging  forward  his  horses  with  a  whip,  the  god  brings  into 
view  his  showery  scouts.  From  afar  the  lion's  roarings  arise,  when 
Parjanya  charges  the  clouds  with  rain.  4.  The  winds  blow,  the 
lightnings  fall,  the  plants  shoot  up ;  the  heaven  fructifies  ;  food  is  pro- 
duced for  all  created  things,  when  Parjanya,  thundering,  replenishes 
the  earth  with  moisture.  5.  Parjanya,  before  whose  agency  the  earth 
bows  down,  at  whose  operation  all  hoofed  cattle  quiver ;  by  whose 
action  plants  (spring  up)  of  every  form ;  do  thou  grant  us  thy  mighty 
protection.  6.  Grant  to  us,  Maruts,  the  rain  of  the  sky;  replenish 
the  streams  of  the  procreative  horse  ;  come  hither  with  this  thy 
thunder,  our  divine  father,  shedding  waters.  7.  Eesound,  thunder, 
impregnate,  rush  hither  and  thither  with  thy  watery  chariot.  Draw 
on  forward  with  thee  thy  opened  and  inverted  water-skin ;  let  the  hills 
and  dales  be  levelled.  8.  Eaise  aloft  thy  vast  water-vessel,  and  pour 
down  showers ;  let  the  discharged  rivulets  roll  on  forward ;  moisten  the 
heaven  and  earth  with  fatness ;  let  there  be  weU-filled  drinking-places 
for  the  cows.  9.  "When  thou,  Paijanya,  resounding  and  thundering, 
dost  slay  the  evil-doers,  the  whole  universe  rejoices,  whatever  lives  upon 
the  earth.  10.  Thou  hast  shed  down  rain;  now  desist;  thou  hast 
made  the  waterless  wastes  fit  to  be  traversed ;  thou  hast  generated 
plants  for  food,  and  thou  hast  fulfilled  the  desires  of  living  creatures.'"'*' 
Parjanya  is  also  celebrated  in  two  other  hymns  of  the  Eig-veda,  viz., 
vii.  101,  102.  The  latter  consists  of  only  three  verses,  and  the  former 
is  less  spirited  and  poetical  than  that  which  I  have  translated.  It 
assigns  to  Parjanya,  however,  several  grander  epithets  and  functions 
than  are  found  in  the  other,  as  it  represents  this  deity  as  the  lord  of 
all  moving  creatures  (vii.  101,  2  :  yo  vUvasya  jagato  devah  Ise) ;  declares 

222  There  does  not  seem  to  be  any  sufficient  reason  to  understand  erildoers  here, 
and  in  verse  9,  of  the  cloud  demons,  who  withold  rain,  or  simply  of  the  malignant 
clouds,  as  Sayaga  in  his  explanation  of  verse  9  (^papakrito  meghan)  does.  The  poet 
may  naturally  have  supposed  that  it  was  exclusively  or  principally  the  wicked  who 
were  struck  down  by  thunderbolts.  Dr.  Biihler  thinks  the  cluud-demons  are  meant 
(Orient  und  Occident,  i.  217,  note  2). 

223  This  last  clause  is  translated  according  to  Professor  Eoth's  explanation,  a.v, 
mamaha.  Wilson,  following  Sayana,  renders  "  verily  thou  hast  obtained  laudation 
from  the  people,"  and  Dr.  Biihler  gives  the  same  sense  :  "  thou  hast  received  praise 
from  the  creatures."    Frajabh/yali  may  of  course  be  either  a  dative  or  ablative. 


142  PAEJANTA. 

that  all  worlds  (or  creatures),  and  the  three  spheres  abide  in  him  (ibid. 
4  :  yasmin  viivani  Ihmanani  tasthus  Msro  dyavah)  ;  that  in  him  is  the 
soul  of  all  things  moving  and  stationary  ''^  (ibid,  6  :  tasminn  atma 
jagatak  tastushai  cha) ;  and  designates  him  as  the  independent  monarch 
(ibid.  5  :  ava/raje).  In  vii.  102,  1,  he  is  called  the  son  of  Dyans  or  the 
Sky  {JDivas  putraya).  Paqanya  is  also  mentioned  in  various  detached 
verses  in  the  E.Y.,  viz.  iv.  57,  8;  v.  63,  4,  6;  vi.  62,  6;  vii.  35,  10; 
viii.  6,  1;  viii.  21,  18;  ix.  2,  9;  ix.  22,  2;  x.  66,  6;  x.  98,  1,  8; 
X.  169,  2.  In  vi.  49,  6;  vi.  50,  12;  x.  65,  9  ;  x.  66,  10,  he  is  con- 
joined with  Vata  the  wind  {Parjanya-vdtd,  Vata-pmjcmya),  and  in  vi. 
62,  16,  with  Agni  (Agnipwrjanyau).  In  ix.  82,  3,  he  is  called  the 
father  of  the  great  leafy  plant  soma  {Parjcmyah  pita  mahishasya  par- 
ninah  \  compare  ix.  113,  3). 

Paijanya  forms  the  subject  of  two  papers  by  Dr.  G.  Biihler,  the  one 
in  English  in  the  Transactions  of  the  London  Philological  Society  for 
1859,  pp.  154  ff.,  and  the  other  in  German  in  Benfey's  Orient  und 
Occident,  vol.  i.  (1862)  pp.  214  ff.  The  latter  of  these  papers  is  not 
however,  a  translation  of  the  former.  The  former  contains  an  English 
version  of  the  hymns  E.V.  v.  83  ;  vii.  101,  and  vii.  102;  to  which  the 
German  article  adds  a  translation  of  A.V.  iv.  15,  a  hymn  consisting  of 
sixteen  verses.  The  English  paper  contains  a  comparison  of  Paijanya 
with  the  Lithuanian  god  Perkunas,  the  god  of  thunder,  which  is  not 
reproduced  in  the  German  essay.  Dr.  Biihler  holds  Parjanya  to  have 
been  decidedly  distinct  from  Indra  (Transact.  Phil.  Soc.  p.  167,  and 
Or.  und  Occ.  229).  In  the  English  paper  he  says  (p.  161)  :  "Taking 
a  review  of  the  whole,  we  find  that'  Parjanya  is  a  god  who  presides 
over  the  lightning,  the  thunder,  the  rain,  and  the  procreation  of  plants 
and  living  creatures.  But  it  is  by  no  means  clear  whether  he  is  ori- 
ginally a  god  of  the  rain,  or  a  god  of  the  thunder."  He  iaclines  how- 
ever to  think  that  from  the  etymology  of  his  name,  and  the  analogy 
between  him  and  Perkunas,  he  was  originally  the  thunder-god  (pp. 
161-167).  In  his  German  essay,  his  conclusion  is  (p.  226)  that 
Paijanya  is  "the  god  of  thunderstorms  and  raiu,  the  generator  and 
nourisher  of  plants  and  living  creatures." 

224  Compare  i.  115,  1,  where  the  same  thing  is  said  of  Surya. 


14a 


SECTION   VIII. 


VATU. 


Vayu,  the  wind,  as  we  have  already  seen,  is  often  associated  witk 
Indra.  See  also  i.  2,  4;  i.  14,  3;  i.  23,  2;  i.  135,  4ff.  (a  vam  ratho 
niyutvan  vahshad  amase  dbhi  prayaihsi  sudhitdni  mtaye  vayo  havyani 
vltaye  \  pibatam  madhvo  anihasah  purvapeyam  hi  vam  hitam  \  "  Let 
yoTor  car  with  team  of  horses  bring  you  to  our  aid ;  and  to  the  offerings 
which  are  well-arranged  for  eating ;  Vayu,  the  oblations  (are  well-ar- 
ranged) for  eating.  Drink  of  the  soma,  for  to  you  twain  belongs  the 
right  to  take  the  first  draught;"  and  see  the  next  verse);  i.  139,  1 ;  ii. 
41,  3  ;  iv.  46,  2ff. ;  iv.  47,  2  ff. ;  v.  51,  4,  6  f. ;  vii.  90,  5  ff. ;  vii.  91,  4ff. ; 
X.  65,  9 ;  X.  141,  4.  The  two  gods  appear  to  have  been  regarded  by  the 
ancient  expositors  of  the  Veda  as  closely  connected  with  each  other ; 
for  the  Nairuktas,  as  quoted  by  Taska  (Nirukta,  vii.  5),  while  they  fi.x 
upon  Agni  and  Surya  as  the  representatives  of  the  terrestrial  and 
celestial  gods  respectively,  speak  of  Vayu  and  Indra  in  conjunction,  as 
deities,  either  of  whom  may  represent  those  of  the  intermediate  sphere : 
Fisrak  eva  devatdh  iti  Nai/ruktah  Agnih  pritlml-sthano  Y&ywr  m  Ini/ro 
vd  antarihha-sthanah  silryo  dyu-sthdnah  |  "  There  are  three  gods  ac- 
cording to  the  Nairuktas,  viz.,  Agni,  whose  place  is  on  earth,  Vayu,  or 
Indra,  whose  place  is  in  the  air,  and  Surya,  whose  place  is  in  the 
heaven,"  etc. 

Vayu  does  not  occupy  a  very  prominent  place  in  the  Eig-veda.  If 
we  except  the  allegorical  description  in  the  Purusha  Sukta,  x.  90,  13, 
where  he  is  said  to  have  sprung  from  the  breath  of  Purusha  (prdndd 
Ydywr  cydyata),  or  unless  we  understand  vii.  90,  3  {rdye  mi  yam  jajnatuh, 
rodasi  ime  \  "He  whom  the  two  worlds  generated  for  wealth")  to 
assert  that  he  was  produced  by  heaven  and  earth,  I  am  aware  of  no 
passage  where  the  parentage  of  Vayu  is  declared.    He  is,  however. 


144  VATU. 

said  to  be  the  son-in-law  of  Tvashtri  (viii.  26,  21  f.  tma  Vayo  ritaspaU 
Tvashtur  Jdrndtar  adhhuta  \  avamsi  a  vrinimahe  \  22.  Tvashfur  jdma- 
tarafh  vayam  isdnam  ray  ah  Imahe  \  sutdvanto  Vdyum  dyumnd  jandaah  \ 
21.  "We  ask  thy  succours,  o  Vayu,  lord  of  rites,  wondrous  son-in- 
law  of  Tvashtri.  22.  "We  men  offering  libations  resort  to  Vayu, 
Tvashtri's  son-in-law,  the  lord  of  wealth,  and  seek  for  splendour") ; 
but  his  wife's  name  is  not  given.^^  But  few  epithets  are  applied  to 
him.  He  is  called  darsata,  "sightly,"  "beautiful,"  or  "conspiuous" 
(i.  2,  1),  and  supsarastama,  "most  handsome  in  form"  (viii.  26, 
24).  He  is  naturally  described  as  krandad-ishti,  "rushing  noisily 
onwards"  (x.  100,  2).  Together  with  Indra,  he  is  designated  as  touch- 
ing the  sky,  swift  as  thought,  wise,  thousand-eyed  {divispriid,  manojavd, 
viprd,  sahasrdkshd,  i.  23,  2,  3).  He  moves  in  a  shining  car,  drawn  by 
a  pair  of  red  or  purple  horses  (i.  134,  3 :  Vayur  yunkte  rohitd  Vdyur 
arund),  or  by  several  teams  of  horses,  chandrena  rathena,  niyutvata 
rathena  (iv.  48,  1 ;  i.  134,  1  ;  i.  135,  4 ;  iv.  47,  1),  His  team  is  often 
said  to  consist  of  ninety-nine,  of  a  hundred,  or  even  of  a  thousand  horses, 
yoked  by  his  will,  i.  135,  1,  3  {sahasrena  niyutd  j  niyudlhih  satinllhih  \ 
sahasrimhhih  |);  ii.  41,  1  {sahasrino  rathasah);  iv.  48,  4,  5  {valtantu 
tvd  manoyujo  yulctdso  neevatir  nava)  ;  vii.  91,6;  vii.  92,  1,5.  As  before 
mentioned  (p.  85),  Indra  and  Vayu  frequently  occupy  the  same  chariot, 
iv.  46,  2;  iv.  48,  2  {Indra-sdrathih  \  Vayo);  vii.  91,  5  {IndravdyH, 
sarathatn  ydtam  arvdk),  which  has  its  framework  of  gold,  which 
touches  the  sky,  and  is  drawn  by  a  thousand  horses,  iv.  46,  3,  4  (o 
vain  sahasrarh  hwrayah  Indravdyu  abhi  prayah  \  vahantu  somapitaye  \ 
ratham  Mranyavandhwam'""'  Indravdyu  svadharam  \  d  hi  sthdlho  divi- 
sprisam).  Vayu,  like  the  other  gods,  is  a  drinker  of  soma.  In  fact,  he 
alone,  or  in  conjunction  with  Indra,  was,  by  the  admission  of  the  other 
gods,  entitled  to  the  first  draught  of  this  libation,  i.  134,  1 ;  i.  135, 1,  4 
(tubhyam  hi  purvapUaye  devdh  devdya  yemire  \  4.  Purvapeyam  hi  vdm 
hitam) ;  iv.  46,  1  (tvam  hi  purvapdh  asi) ;  v.  43,  3 ;  vii.  92,  2  {pra 
yad  vdm  madhvah  agriyam  hharanti  adhvaryavah) ;  viii.  26,  25.'"'    It  is 

''^  Sayana  gives  no  help.  He  merely  says :  esha  kathn  itihSsndibhir  avagantavya  \ 
"  This  story  is  to  he  learneil  from  the  Itihusas,  etc."  In  the  Seution  on  Tvashtri  we 
shall  see  that  according  to  E.V.  x.  17,  1  f.  he  had  a  daughter  called  Saranyu,  who 
was  the  wife  of  Vivasvat;  but  VivasTat  is  not  identical  with  Vftyu. 

229  Eegnrding  the  word  vandhura  see  a  note  in  the  Section  on  the  A^vins. 

22'  On  this  subject  we  find  the  foUotting  story  in  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  ii.  25  : 


VAYTJ,    HYMNS  ADDEESSED   TO   HIM.  145 

remarkable  ttat  Vayu  is  but  rarely  connected  with,  the  Maruts  or 
deities  of  the  storm ;  but  in  one  place  (i.  1 34,  4)  he  is  said  to  have 
begotten  them  from  the  rivers  of  heaven  {jyanayo  Maruto  vahhandlhi/a 
divah  d  mhhanahhyah);  and  in  another  place  (i.  142,  12)  to  be  at- 
tended by  Fushan,  the  Maruts  and  the  Visve  devas  {Pushanvate  Marut- 
vate  viivadevaya  Vayave). 

The  following  hymns  are  addressed  to  Vata  (another  name  of  the 
god  of  the  wind).     The  imagery  in  the  first  is  highly  poetical : 

X.  168,  1.  Vatasya  nu  mahimdnam  rathasya  rujann  eti  stanayann  aaya 
ghoshah  \  dvoisprig  ydti  armdni  hriweann  uto  eti  pritMvydh  renum 
asyan  \  2.  Sam  prerate  arm,  vdtasya  vishthdh  d  enam  g'achhanti  samanam 
na  yoshdh  \  tdlhih  sayuk  sa/ratham  devah  lyate  aaya  viivmya  IMvanasya 
rdjd  I  3.  Anta/rikshe  pathihhir  lyamdno  na  m  vUate  hatamach  chana 
ahah  \  apdih  aakhd  prathamajdh  ritdvd  leva  svif  j'dtah  kutah  dhabhuva  \ 
dtma  devdndm  bhuvanasya  garhho  yathdvasam,  eharati  devah  eshah  \ 
ghoshah  id  asya  irinvire  na  rupam  tasmai  Vdtaya  havishd  vidhema  \ 

"  1.  (I  celebrate)  the  glory  of  Tata's  chariot;  its  noise  comes  rending 
and  resounding.  Touching  the  sky,  he  moves  onward,  making  all 
things  ruddy  :  and  he  comes  propelling  the  dust  of  the  earth.     2.  The 

Devah  vai  Somasya  rajno  'grapeye  na  samapadayann  "  aham  prathamah  pibeyam  " 
"  aJmm  prathamah  pibeyam  "  ity  eva  akamayanta  \  te  sampSdayanto  'briman  "  hanta 
ajim  iyama  sa  yo nah  ujjeshyati  sa  prathamah  somasya  pasyati "  iti  \  "  tatha"  iti  | 
te  ajim  ayuh  |  tesham  ajim  yatwm  abhisrishtanam  Vayw  mulcham  prathamah  pratya- 
padyata  atha  Inth'o  'tha  Mitrava/runav  atha  Aivinau  \  so  'ved  Indro  Vayum  ud  vai 
jayati  iti  tarn  amwparapatat  \  sa  ha  "nav  atha  "^jjayava"  iti  |  sa  "na"  ity  abramd 
"aham.  eva  ujjeshyami"  iti  |  "tritiyam  me' tha  vjjayaoa"  iti  \  "na"  iti  ha  eva 
atravid  "  aham  eva  ujjeshyami"  iti  \  "  ttirtyam  me  'tha  uj/ayava  iti  \  "  tatha  "  iti  \ 
tarn  turlye  'tyarjata  |  tat  twlya-bhag  Indro  'ihavat  tribhag  Vayuh  \  tau  saha  eva 
Indravayu  udajayataih  saha  Mitravarunau  saha  Aivinau  \  "  The  gods  did  not  agree 
in  regard  to  the  first  draught  of  king  Soma ;  but  each  of  them  desired, '  Let  me  drink 
first,'  '  let  me  drink  first."  But  coming  to  an  arrangement,  they  said  :  '  Come,  let 
us  run  a  race,  and  the  victor  shall  first  drink  the  Soma.'  'Agreed,'  said  they 
all.  They  ran  a  race  accordingly ;  and  -when  they  started  and  ran,  Vayu  first  reached 
the  goal,  then  Indra,  then  Mitra  and  Varuna,  and  last  the  As'vins.  Indra  thought 
he  might  beat  Vayu,  and  he  followed  him  closely ;  and  said  '  Let  us  two  now  be  the 
victors.'  'No,'  rejoined  Vayu,  'I  alone  shaU  be  the  winner.'  'Let  us  so  win 
together  that  I  shall  have  a  third  (of  the  draught),'  said  Indra.  '  No,'  said  Vayu, 
'  I  alone  shall  be  the  winner.'  '  Let  us  so  win  together  that  I  shall  have  the  fourth,' 
continued  Indra.  '  Agreed,'  said  Vayu.  He  gave  him  a  right  to  the  fourth,  so  Indra 
has  one  share  out  of  four  and  Vayu  three.  So  Indra  and  Vayu  won  together,  as  did 
Mitra  and  Varuna,  and  the  two  A^vius  respectively."  See  the  story  of  another 
similar  settlement  by  a  race  in  the  Ait.  Br.  iv.  7  f. 

10 


146  VAYU,   HYMNS  ADDEESSED  TO  HIM. 

gusts  (?)  of  tte  air  rush  after  him,  and  oongregate  in  him  as  womon  in  an 
assembly.  Sitting  along  with  them  on  the  same  car,  the  god,  who  is 
king  of  this  universe,  is  borne  along.  3.  Hasting  forward,  by  paths  in 
the  atmosphere,  he  never  rests  on  any  day.  Friend  of  the  waters, 
■first-born,  holy,  in  what  place  was  he  born  ?  whence  has,  he  sprung  ? 
4.  Soul  of  the  gods,  source  of  the  universe,  this  deity  moves  as  he 
lists.""^  His  sounds  h?iye  been  heardj  but  his  form  is  not  (seen) :  this 
Vata  let  us  worship  with  an  oblation." 

X.  186,  1.  Fatah  a,  vatu  hheshafam  ianibhi  ma^ohhu  no  hride  \  2.  Pra 
nalj,  dyumsjd  tarishat-  \  uta  Vata  pita,  'si  ««$  uta  hhratd  uta  nah  sakha  | 
*a  nojwatave  kridhi  \  3.  Yad  ado  Vata  te  grihe  amritasya  nidhir  hitah  | 
tato  no  dehifivase  \ 

"1.  Let  Vata,  the  wind,  waft  to  us  healing, ^^'  salutary,,  and  auspi- 
cious, to  our  heart :,  me^y  he  prolong  our  lives.  2.  Andj  Yata,  thou  art 
our  father,  our  btother,  and  our  friend :  cause  us  to  live.  3.  Prom  the 
treasure  of  immortality,  which  is  deposited  yonder  in  thy  house,  o 
Vata,  give  us  to  Hve." 

Here  the  same  property  is  ascribed  to  Vata  which  is  elsewhere 
ascribed  to  Eudra,  that  of  bringing  healing. 

'28  Compare  St.  John's  Gospel,  iii.  8  :  The  wind  bloweth  where  it  listeth,"  etc. 
"9  Compare  i.  89,  4. 


14T 


SECTION  IX. 

THE  MAEUTS. 
(1)  Their  parentage,  epithets,  ehmracteruUes,  and!  action. 

The  Marats,  or  Budras,  tie  gods  of  the  tempest,'^"  who  form  a  large 
troop  of  thrice  sixty  (viii.  85,  8  :  trih  shashtis  tvd  Maruto  vavridha- 
ndh),  or  of  only  twenty-seven  (i.  133,  6  :  tr-uapiaih  ^ura  satvahhik),^^ 
are  the  sons  of  Eudra  and  Prisni  ^'^  {Budrasy^  marydh  |  RuArasya 
sunwoa^  \-  Ru&rasy,a  suniin.  \  Rudrasya  putpdh  |  idam  pitre  marutam 
uchyate  vaohah  \  pitar  marutdih  .  .  .  Rudra  |  PrUnim  vochanta  mataram  \ 
adha  pitaram  ishmimm  Rudram  voehanta  \  yuvd  pits  svapdh  Rudrah 
eshdm  sudughd  Priinih  sudmd  marudbhyak  \  Ppi^mmdtanah  \  asuta 
PrUnw  mahate  randya  tvesham  ay dsdm  Marutam  anlkam  \  GomdtaraTf  \ 
Gaur  dhayati  Marutd'm,  irmavym  mdtd  maghondm  \  ),^^  or  the  speckled 
cow  (i.  64,  2;   i.  85,  If.;    i.  114,  6;   i.  168,  9;   ii.  33,  1 ;  ii.  34,  2; 

230  Prof.  Benfey,  in  a  note  to  E.V.  i.  6,  4,  says  that  the  Maruts  (their  name  being 
derived  frpm  mar, '  to  die,')  are  personifications  of  the  souls  of  the  departed. 

*''  See  also  A.V.  xiii.  1,,  3,  where  the  same  smaller  number  is  given  r  trishaptaso 
marutalj,  svacbtsammudah.  Sayana  interprets  the  vrords  of  E-V.  viii.  28,  5,  saptanam 
sapta  rishiayah  |  "  The  seven  have  seven  spears,"  by  saying  that  it  refers  to  an 
ancient  story  of  Indra  severing  the  embryo  of  Aditi  into  seven  parts,  from  vphich 
sprang  the  Maruts  according  to  the-  Vedio  text :  "The  Maruts  are  divided  into  seven 
troops."  The  same  story  is  told  at  greater  length  by  Sayana  on  E.T.  i.  114,  6, 
where,  however,  it  is  said  to  be  Diti,  mother  of  the  Asuras,  whose  embryo  Indra 
severed  first  into  seven  portions^  each  of  which  he  then  subdivided  into  seven.  See 
the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  266. 

»3*  This  word  is  regarded  as  a  personification  of  the  speckled  clouds  in  Eoth's 
Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  x.  39,  p.  145.  In  his  Lexicon  the  same  scholar  says  that 
like  other  dfesignations  of  the  cow,  the  word  is  employed  in  various  figurative  and 
mythical  references,  to  denote  the  earth,  the  clouds,  milk,  the  variegated  or  starry 
heaven.  On  ii.  34,  2,  Sayana  refers  (as  an  alternative  explanation)  to  a  story  of 
Endra,  as  a  buU,  begetting  the  Maruts  on  Pp^ni,  the  Earth,  in  the  form  of  a  cow. 

MS  The  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  ii.  2,  11,  4,  says:  Frianiyai  vaipaymo  maratoJataK  | 
"  The-  Maruts  were  born  from  Prix's  milk." 


148  THE  MAEtTTS,   THEIR  PARENTAGE, 

V.  42,  15 ;  T.  52,  16  ;  t.  60,  5  ;  v.  59,  6  ;  vi.  50,  4  ;  vi.  66,  3  ;  vii. 
56,  1;  viii.  7,  3,  17;  viii.  20,  17;  viii.  83,  1).  They  are,  however, 
said  to  be  like  sons  to  Indra  («»  sunuhhir  na  Eudrehhih,  i.  100,  5) ;  and 
they  are  also  called  sindhu-matarah,  childrea  of  the  ocean,  whether  we 
suppose  this  to  be  the  aerial  or  terrestrial  sea  (x.  78,  6),  and  sons  of 
Heaven,  dwas-putrasah  (x.  77,  2),  and  Bwo  mwryah,  iii.  53, 13  ;  v.  59,  6. 
See  MuUer's  Trans,  of  E.Y.  p.  93.  In  v.  56,  8,  mention  is  made  of 
the  chariot  of  theMaruts  "in  which  Eodasi  stood  bringing  enjoyments, 
in  company  with  the  Maruts"  (a  yasmin  tasthau  sv/ranani  hibJiratl 
"  sacha  marutsu Kodaai).  On  this  Sayana  remarks  that  Eodasi  is  the  wife 
(of  Eudra  and  mother  of  the  Maruts ;  or  that  Eudra  is  the  Wind  (Vayu), 
and  his  wife  the  intermediate  or  aerial  goddess.  {Bedasi  Rudraaya  patm 
marutam  mata  I  yadvd  Rudro  Vayuh  \  tat-patnl  madhyamika  devi).  They 
are  frequently  associated  with  Indra,  as  we  have  already  seen; — (compare 
the  expressions  which  describe  them  as  his  allies  and  friends,  and  as 
increasing  his  strength  and  prowess,  at  the  same  time  that  they 
celebrate  his  greatness  :  Marutvantam  Indram  \  Indra-jyeihiMh  mwrud- 
ganah  \  Bokhibhih  svebhir  evaih  |  ye  te  iushmam  ye  tavishlm  aeardhann 
archantah  Indra  marutas  te  oj'ah  \  piha  Rudrebhih  mganah  \  ye  tva  arm, 
ahan  Vrittram,  adadhus  tuhhyam,  ojak  \  archanti  tva  Ma/rutah  putadakhas 
tvam  eshdm  rishir  Indrasi  dhirah  \  Budrdsah  Indrwoamtah  \  ayam  Indro 
Marut-saMd  |  Brihad  Indraya  gdyata  marutah  |  i.  23,  7,  8 ;  i.  lOOi 
1  ff.;  i.  101,  1,  ff. ;  iii.  32,  2,  4;  iii.  35,  9;  iii.  47,  1,  ff. ;  iii.  51,  7 
ff. ;  V.  29,  1,  2,  6 ;  v.  67,  1 ;  vii.  32,  10  ;  vii.  42,  5 ;  viii.  36,  1  ff ; 
viii.  52,  10;  viii.  65,  1  ff;  viii.  78,  1  ff. ;  viii.  85,  7  ff. ;  x.  73,  1; 
X.  99,  5;  X.  113,  3)  ; — but  they  are  also  celebrated  separately  in 
numerous  hymns  (as  i.  37 ;  i.  38;  i.  39;  i.  64;  i.  85;  i.  86;  i.  87;  i.  88; 
i.  166,  which,  with  others,  are  rendered  into  English  and  illustrated 
in  the  1st  vol.  of  Professor  MuUer's  Translation  of  the  E.V. ;  see  also 
i.  167;  i.  168;  v.  52;  v.  53;  v.  54;  v.  55;  v.  56;  vii.  56;  vii.  57; 
vii.  58,  etc.)  They  are  favourite  deities  of  some  of  the  rishis,  and  are 
often  praised  in  highly  poetical  strains.  They  are  like  blazing  fires, 
free  from  soil,  of  golden  or  tawny  hue,  and  of  sunlike  brilliancy  (y« 
agnayo  na  iosuehann  idhanah  \  arena/Bah  \  hiranyasah  \  suryatvaohah  \ 
armapsavah  \  vi.  66,  2 ;  vii.  59,  11;  viii.  7,  7).  They  are  also  com- 
pared to  swans  with  black  plumage  {hamsdso  nila-prishthdh,  vii.  59,  7) ; 
and  are  sometimes  said  to  be  playful  as  children  or  calves  {krilanU 


EPITHETS,  CHAEACTEEISTICS,  AND  ACTION.  149 

Tirilah  \  Uiulah  na  krilayah  sumdtarah  \  vatsaso  na  prahriUnah  \  i.  166, 
2;  vii.  56,  16;  x.  78,  6).  They  are  thus  apostrophized  in  v.  54,  11 : 
amseshu  vah  ruhtayah  patsu  hhadayo  vahhassu  ruhmah  Maruto  rathe 
iuhhah  I  agnibhraj&so  vi&yuto  gabhastyoh  kiprdh  iirshashu  vitatah  hira- 
nyayth  \  "  Spears  rest  upon  your  shoulders,  ye  Maruts ;  ye  have  anklets 
on  your  feet,  golden  ornaments  on  your  breasts,  lustre  in  your  cars, 
fiery  lightnings  in  your  hands,  and  golden  helmets  '^  placed  upon  yonr 

^'^  In  ii.  34,  3,  the  epithet  of  hiranya-Hprah  is  applied  to  these  deities.  This 
Sayana  explains  by  su/oarnamaya-sirastranah,  "with  golden  helmets."  That  one 
sense  of  iipra  (feminine)  is  "  a  head-dress,  or  a  helmet,"  is  settled  by  the  verse  in  the 
text,  T.  64,  H,  where  the  words  are  siprali  dirahasw  vitatali  hiranyayVi,  "golden 
helmets  are  stretched  or  (placed)  upon  your  heads  ; "  and  also  by  viii.  7,  26,  where  it 
is  said,  siprah  strshan  hirmyay'ih  .  .  .  vymijata  iriye,  "  they  displayed  for  ornament 
golden  helmets  on  their  heads."  In  the  first  of  these  passages,  Sayana  interprets  siprah 
as  meaning  a  '  turban,'  in  the  second  a '  helmet.'  It  thus  appears  that  siprah,  in  these 
texts  at  least,  must  mean  something  external  to  the  head,  and  not  a  feature  of  the 
face  as  sipra  is  often  interpreted,  when  applied  to  Indra.  Thus  smipra  is  explained 
by  Sayana  on  i.  9,  3,  as  meaning  sobhcma-hano  sobhcma-ndsika  va,  " having  handsome 
jaws,  or  a  handsome  nose  ; "  since  Taska,  he  says,  makes  sipra  to  mean  one  or  other 
of  these  two  parts  of  the  face  (Nirukta,  vi.  17).  The  same  explanation  is  given  by 
Sayana  on  i.  29,  2 ;  i.  81,  4  ;  and  i.  101,  10.  On  iii.  30,  3,  however,  the  same  com- 
mentator says:  sipra-sabdena  sirastranam  abhidhiyate  |  sobhana-sirastra'nopetah\ 
yadva-  iobhcma-hamvman  \  "By  the  word  sipra,  a  helmet  is  signified.  Smipra 
therefore  means  '  having  a  handsome  helmet,'  or  it  means  '  having  handsome  jaws.' 
On  iii.  32,  3  ;  iii.  36,  10  ;  viii.  32,  4,  24 ;  viii.  33,  7 ;  viii.  56,  4 ;  he  returns  to  the 
latter  interpretation.  On  viii.  17,  4 ;  viii.  81,  4 ;  viii.  82,  12  ;  he  again  gives  the 
alternative  explanation  as  on  iii.  30,  3.  Professor  Aufrecht  has  favoured  me  with  a 
note  on  the  subject  of  the  word  sipra  and  its  derivatives,  of  which  the  following  are 
the  most  important  parts  :  S'ipra  in  the  dual  means  jaws  (i.  101,  10 ;  iii.  32,  1 ;  v. 
36,  2;  viii.  65,  10;  x.  96,  9j  x.  105,  5).  S'ipravat  means  "having  large  jaws" 
(vi.  17,  2).  S'iprin  means  the  same,  and  is  used  only  of  Indra  (i.  29,  2;  i.  84,  1; 
iii.  36,  10,  etc.  etc.).  8'iprini,  as  Professor  Aufrecht  considers,  means  "  a  draught 
(imbibed  by  the  jaws) ; "  and  he  translates  i.  30,  11,  thus  :  "  (Partake,  our  friend, 
wielder  of  the  thunderbolt,  of  the  draughts  of  us  thy  friends  the  soma-drinkers, 
thou  who  art  fond  of  Soma."  S'iprntvat  (x.  106,  5)  will  thus  be  "he  who 
possesses  the  draught."  Sipra^  in  v.  64,  11,  and  viii.  7,  26,  are  "  visors,"  the 
two  parts  of  which  are  compared  to  two  jaws.  Ayah-sipra,  used  of  the  Bibhus 
(iv.  37,  4)  will  consequently  mean  "having  iron  visors."  The  word  occurs  in 
other  compounds,  to  which  I  need  not  here  refer.  I  am  not  sufficiently  acquainted 
with  the  armour  of  India  to  know  whether  anything  like  a  visor  was  or  is  used 
by  warriors  in  that  country.  It  is,  however,  customary  for  the  Hindus  in  parti- 
cular circumstances  (as  for  protection  from  the  heat,  and  also  from  the  cold,  and  for 
purposes  of  disguise)  to  wear  their  turbans  not  only  wrapped  horizontally  round  their 
heads,  but  also  to  tie  another  cloth  perpendicularly  under  their  chins  and  over  the 
tops  of  their  heads,  thus  enclosing  the  sides  of  their  faces.  This  is  called  in  the  ver- 
nacular Hindi  dhatha  band/ma.  The  word  dhatha  is  explained  in  Shakespear's 
Hindustani  Dictionary,  s.v.  as  "  a  handkerchief  tied  over  the  turband  and  over  the 


ISO  THE  MAEUTS,   THiEIfi   PARENTAGE, 

heads."  Compare  i.  64,  4;  i.  166,  10;  ii.  34,  2,  3  {dyavo  na  strilM 
eMtaymta  hhadvmh  [  "adorned  with  rings,  they  were  conspicuous  like 
the  sky  with  it$  stars  ") ;  v.  53,  4  (where,  in  addition  to  their  ornaments 
and  their  weapons,  they  are  said  to  have  been  decorated  with  garlands : 
ffe  mykhu  ye  vdilshu  amhAancwah  wahihu  mlcmeshu  kkadishu  \  irdydh 
ratheshu  dhmmsu) ;  v.  55,  1 ;  v.  57,  5,  6  (every  glory  is  manifested  in 
•their  bodies :  visva  vah  irir  adhi  tmiushu  pipiSe) ;  v.  68>  2  {JsMdihastam) ; 
vii.  56,  11,  13  {amsesht  vo  Marutah  khddayah'^  |  "on  your  shoulders, 
Maruts,  are  rings  ") ;  viii.  7,  25 ;  viii.  20,  4  {SuhhrahMiayah),  11,  22 ; 
X.  78,  2.  They  are  armed  with  golden  weapons,  and  with  lightnings, 
dart  thunderbolts,  gleam  like  flames  of  Are,  and  are  borne  along  with 
the  fury  of  boisterous  winds  (vidyunmahaso  naro  aSmadidymo  vdtatvisho 
Marutah,  v.  54,  3) ;  viii.  7,  4,  17,  32  {vajrahaBtail}  .  .  .  marudbhijf  .  .  . 
MranymdiihMh) ;  x.  78,  2,  3  {vdtaso  na  ye  dhinayo  jigatnmo  agninam 
na  jiTwdh  vvroMnah) ;  they  spHt  Vyittra  into  fragments  (viii.  7,  23  : 
vi  vrittram  parva^o  yayvil}) ;  they  are  clothed  with  rain  {.va/nJumir- 
nifah,  v.  57,  4) ;  they  create  darkness  even  during  the  day,  with  the 
rain-clouds  distribute  showers  all  over  the  world,  water  the  earth, 
^  and  avert  heat  i.  38,  9  {divd  chit  tamalj,  krinvanti  parjanyena  udamd- 
hena  \  yat  pnthwi&  vyundanti)  ;  v.  54,  1  {Sardhdya  mdrutdya  .  .  . 
gha/rma-stulhe) ;  v.  55,  5  (w(?  irayatha  Marutah  samud/rato  yuyafh  vrish- 
tim  varshayatha  purishimh)  ;  viii.  7,  4  {vapanti  maruto  miham  \  16. 
ye  drapsdh  wa  rodasi  dhamanti  anu  wishtibhih)?^  They  open  up  a 
path  for  the  sun,  viii.  7,  8  {srijanti  raSmim  ojasd  panthdm  surydya 
ydtcwe).  They  cause  the  mountains,  the  earth,  and  both  the  worlds  to 
quake,  i.  39,  5  {^pra  vepayanti  parvatan)  ;  i.  87,  3  {rejate  Ihumih) ; 
V.  54,  1,  3  {parvataohyutah) ;  v.  60,  2  f.  {vo  hhiyd  prithwl  chid  rejate 
parvatas  chit  \  parvatai  chin  mahi  liriddho  hihhdya  divai  chit  sdnu  rejate 
svane  vah)  ;  vii.  57,  1  {ye  ryaycmti  rodan  chid  wvi) ;  viii.  7,  4 ;  viii. 
20,  5.  They  rend  trees,  and,  like  wild  elephants,  they  devour  the 
forests,  i.  39,  5 ;  i.  64,  7  {vi  vinchanti  vcmaspatln  \  mrigdh  iva  hastinah 

235  On  the  sense  of  the  word  khadi  see  Miiller's  Trans,  of  the  E.V.  p.  102  and  218. 

S35  In  a  hymn  of  the  A.V.  iv.  27,  verse  3,  the  Maruts  are  said  to  give  an  impulse 
to  the  milk  of  cows,  the  sap  of  plants,  the  speed  of  horses  {pcM/o  dhenunam  rasam 
oshadhinSm  jmam  arvataih  kava^o  ye  invatha) ;  and  in  the  4th  verse  they  are 
described  as  raising  the  waters  from  the  sea  to  the  sky,  and  as  discharging  them  from 
the  akj  on  the  earth  {apal^  smmidrad  divam  whahanti  divas  prithivim  abhi  ye 
srijanti). 


EPiTHfiTS,  CHAfiACTEHlSTICS,  AND  ACTION.  151 

khadatJM  vcmS).  They  hiate  iron  teeth  {a/tfoda^shtrani  i:  88,  5) ;  they 
roar  like  lions  {iiihliah,  ^a  nafiadafij  i.  64,  8) ;  all  creatures  are  a&aid 
of  them,  i.  85,  8  {hkm/ante  ^iiva  bkuvand  maruAVkyoih.  Their  v^eapons 
are  of  various  description'SH-spears,  bows,  quivers,  and  arrows  [yakim- 
anlah  rishti^miah  ^  ishumanto  nwhtmigiAah),  i.  37,  2 ;  v.  57,  2.  Their 
coursers  are  swift  as  thought  {mKmojmah,;  1.  85,  4).  They  ride,  with 
whips  id  their  hands  ijkaiah  hasteshu,  i.  37,  3 ;  i.  168,  4),  in  goldefa 
cars  (Jiir'a^'gamtMh,  t.  57 j  l))  with  golflfeil  wheels  {hinhyehhih 
pmlMh  I  Jmranya-chahrdn,  i.  64,  11 ;  i.  88,  5),  drawn  by  iniddy  and 
tawny  horses  (with  which  the  chariots  are  said  to  be  winged),  and 
flashing  forth  lightnings,  or  formed  of  lightning,  i.  88,  1,  2  (a  vid- 
yunmadlhih  rathebhir  rishtimadlhir  aivd^arnaih  \  wunebMh  piimgair 
ahaih) ;  iii.  54,  13  {vidyudratMh  Marutah  riahtmdntah) ;  v.  67,  4 
{piicmgahiah  arunasiiah).  The  animals  by  whibh  these  chariots  are 
described  as  being  drawn  are  designated  in  some  places  by  the  epithet 
prishatih  (i.  37,  2 ;  i.  39;  6 ;  i.  85,  5 »  viii.  7,  28)j  Which  Professor 
"Wilson— ^following  Sayana  on  Kig-vedaj  i.  37j  2*" — renders  by 
"spotted  deer."  But  in  i.  38j  12,  the  horses  {aiVa^dh)  of  the  Maruts 
are  spoken  of;  as  is  alSo  the  case  iil  viii.  7j  27,  where  they  (the  horses) 
are  called  hiranya-panibhih,  "golden-footed;"  though  in  the  next 
verse  (28)  the  prishatih  are  again  spoken  of,  as  weU.  as  a  prashtih 
rohitah,  which  we  find  also  in  i.  39^  6,  and  which  Sayana  understands 
to  denote  either  a  swift  buck,  or  a  bubk  yoked  as  a  leader  to  the  does. 
In  i.  87,  4,  the  troop  of  Maruts  itself  receives  the  epithet  prishad-asva, 
"  having  spotted  horses;"  This  is,  indeed,  explaiiled  by  Sayana  in  the 
sense  of  "  having  does  marked  with  white  spots  instead  of  horses ; "  ^^ 
but  in  his  notes  on  v.  54,  2,  10,  and  v.  55,  1,  where  the  Maruts' 
horses  are  again  spoken  of  (jia  vo  ahah  irathaydnta  |  lyante  ahaih 
suyamebhir  Ssulhih),  he  does  not  repeat  this  explanatioil.  In  v.  55,  6, 
where  the  Maruts  are  described  as  having  yoked  prishatih  (feminine)  as 
horses  {dkvdti,  masoulinej)  to  their  chariots,  Sayana  says  we  may  either 
understand  "spotted  inares,"  or  suppose  the  word  "horse"  to  stand  for 

'W  Priahatyo vindti-yuktah mrigyd  Marud-vahcma-bhutah  |  ^' prishatyo Mm'ntam" 
iti  Mghemtm  vMatvat. 

2'*  Benfey,  in  Mb  translation  of  this  verse  (Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  250)  retains 
the  seilse  6f  antelopes.  In  +ii.  56,  1,  the  Maruts  are  styled  svasvah,  "  having  good 
horses,"  which  Sayana  explains  iobhana-vahali,  "  having  good  carriers." 


162  THE  MAEUTS,    THEIE  CHARACTEEISTICS, 

doer  (prishatih  .  .  .  prishad-varndh  mdmdh  \  sdrcmgi  va  atra  aka-iahda- 
vdehya).  In  his  note  on  prishatlhhih  in  ii.  34,  3,  he  says  they  may  he 
,  either  does  marked  with  white  spots,  or  mares ;  and  he  interprets 
prishatih  in  v.  57,  3,  by  aivah,  mares.  Professor  Aufrecht,  who  has 
favoured  me  with  a  note  on  the  subject  of  the  word  prishatih,  is  of 
opinion  that,  looking  to  all  the  passages  where  it  occurs  in  connection 
with  the  Maruts,  it  must  mean  mares.^'  Perhaps  it  is  best  to  hold 
with  Professor  Miiller  (Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  p.  59)  that  the  Vedic  poets 
admitted  both  ideas,  as  we  find  "  that  they  speak  in  the  same  hymns, 
and  even  in  the  same  verse,  of  the  fallow  deer,  and  also  of  the  horses 
of  the  Maruts." 

In  the  following  verses,  viii.  83,  9  ff.,  high  cosmical  functions  are 
ascribed  to  the  Maruts  :  a  yevisvd  pdrthivani  paprathan  rochand  divah  \ 
Marutah  somapltaye  \  10.  Tyan  nu  putadakshaso  divo  vo  Maruto  hwee 
asya  somasya  pitaye  \  11.  Tydn  nu  ye  vi  rodasi  tastalhwr  Maruto  hum  \ 
asya  somasya  pUaye  \  12.  Tarn  nu  Marutam  ganam  girishthdm  vrisha- 
narh  hme  \  asya  somasya  pltaye  \  9  and  10.  "I  invite  to  drink  this 
soma  the  Maruts  who  stretched  out  all  the  terrestrial  regions,  and  the 
luminaries  of  the  sky ;  I  call  from  the  heaven  those  Maruts  of  pure 

*''  Professor  Aufrecht  haa  pointed  out  a  number  of  passages  regarding  the  sense  of 
the  woiis  prishad-aha  soA prishat,  as  Eayamukuta  on  Aniars,  the  Vaj.  Sanh.  xxiv. 
11,  18;  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  v.  6,  1,  10,  and  v.  5,  2,  9.  He  has  also  indicated 
another  verse  of  the  Eig-veda  (t.  68,  6),  ■v/^ieie  prishaiibhis  in  the  feminine  is  joined 
with  asvaih  in  the  masculine  (where  Professor  Miiller,  Trans,  of  E.V.  i.  59,  would 
translate,  "  when  you  come  with  the  deer,  the  horses,  and  the  chariots  ") ;  andremarks 
that  viii.  54,  10,  11,  could  not  mean  that  the  rishi  received  a  thousand  antelopes. 
(The  words  are  these :  data  me  prishatmam  raja  hiranycmnam  \  ma  devah  maghava 
rishat  |  11.  Sahasre  prishatmam  adhi  schemdrcmi  irihat  pritAu  |  suhram  hiranyam 
adade  \  "0  gods,  may  the  bountiful  king,  the  giver  to  me  of  the  gold-decked 
prishatis,  never  perish!  11.  I  received  gold,  brilliant,  heavy,  broad,  and  shining, 
over  and  above  a  thousand  jjn'sAaizs  (probably  speckled  cows)."-  Sayana  represents 
Indra  as  the  bountiful  patron  here,  and  makes  the  worshipper  pray  to  the  gods  that 
Indra  may  not  perish,  an  erroneous  interpretation,  surely.  Professor  Eoth  appears, 
from  a  remark  under  the  word  eta  (vol.  i.  p.  1091  of  his  Diet.)  to  have  at  one  time 
regarded  ^mAafyaA  as  a  kind  of  deer.  In  his  explanation  of  this  latter  word  itself, 
however  (in  a  later  part  of  his  Lexicon,  which  perhaps  had  not  reached  me  when  this 
note  was  first  written),  he  says  that  it  is  a  designation  of  the  team  of  the  Maruts ; 
and  according  to  the  ordinary  assumption  of  the  commentators,  which,  however 
is  not  established  either  by  the  Nirukta,  or  by  any  of  the  Brahmanas  known  to 
us,  denotes  spotted  antelopes.  There  is  nothing,  however,  he  goes  on  to  say,  to 
prevent  our  understanding  the  word  (with  Mahidhara  on  Vaj.  Sanh,  ii.  16)  to  mean 
spotted  mares,  as  mention  is  frequently  enough  made  of  the  horses  of  the  Maruts. 


AND   RELATIONS  TO  INDRA.  153 

power.  1 1 .  I  call  to  drink  this  soma  those  Maruts  who  held  apart  the 
two  worlds.  12.  I  call  to  drink  this  soma  that  vigorous  host  of  Maruts 
which  dwells  in  the  mountains." 

The  Maruts  or  Eudras  (like  their  father  Eudra ;  see  the  4th  vol.  of 
this  work,  pp.  253,  259,  261,  263  f.,  333  ff.),  are  in  one  hymn,  viii. 
20,  23,  25,  supplicated  to  bring  healing  remedies,  which  are  described 
as  abiding  in  the  Sindhu,  the  Asikni,  the  seas,  and  the  hills  {maruto 
marutoBya  nah  d  Iheshayasya  vahata  \  yad  Sindhau  yad  Asiknyam  yat 
samudreshu  .  .  .  yat  parvateshu  hheshajam). 

(2)  delations  of  the  Maruts  to  Indra  ; — the  rival  claims 
of  the  two  parties. 

Professor  "Wilson  is  of  opinion  (Eig-veda  ii.,  Indroduction  p.  vii.  and 
notes  pp.  145  and  160),  that  in  a  few  hymns  some  traces  are  per- 
ceptible of  a  dispute  between  the  votaries  of  the  Maruts  and  those  of 
Indra  in  regard  to  their  respective  claims  to  worship.  Thus  in  hymns 
165  and  170  of  the  first  book  of  the  Eig-veda  we  find  dialogues,  in  the 
first  case  between  Indra  and  the  Maruts,  and  in  the  second  between 
Indra  and  Agastya,  in  which  the  rival  pretensions  of  these  deities 
appear.  Indra  asks,  i.  165,  6  :  kva  sya  vo  Marutah  svadhd  dsid 
yan  mam  ekam  samadhatta  Ahihatye  \  aham  hi  ugras  tavishas  tmish- 
man  visvasya  iatror  anamam  vadhasnaih  |  7.  Bhuri  chahwrtha  yu- 
jyehhir  asms  samanehhir  vrishabha  pammsyebhih  \  bhurmi  hi  krinavdma 
iavishtha  Indra  kratvd  Maruto  yad  vaidma  \  8.  Vadhlm  Vrittram 
marutah  indriyena  svena  hhdmena  \  "  Where  was  your  inherent  power, 
ye  Maruts,  when  ye  involved  me  alone  ^^  in  the  conflict  with  Ahi  ?  It 
was  I  who,  fierce,  strong,  and  energetic,  overturned  my  enemies  with  my 
shafts."  The  Maruts  rejoin  :  "  7.  Yigorous  god,  thou  hast  done  great 
things  with  us  for  thy  helpers,  through  our  equal  valour ;  for,  0  strong 
Indra,  we  Maruts  by  our  power  can  perform  many  great  exploits  when  | 
we  desire."  Indra  replies  :  "  8.  By  my  own  prowess,  Maruts,  I  slew! 
Vrittra,  mighty  in  my  wrath,"  etc. 

Of  hymn  i.  170,  the  Mrukta  says,  i..  5,  that    "Agastya,   having 

prepared  an  oblation  for  Indra;  desired  to  give  the  Maruts  also  a  share 

in  it.     On  which  Indra  came  and  complained."     {Agastyah  Indrdya 

havi/r  nirupya  Marudhhyah  sampraditsdm  chakara  |  sa  Indrah  etya 

""  See  above,  p.  93,  note. 


154  RELATIONS  OF  THE   MAEUTS   TO  INDBA. 


The  Maruts  reply,  i.  170,  2 :  him  nah  Indra 
jigMmsmi  hhrdtaro  marutas  tma  \  tehhih  kalpasva  saShuya  ma  nah 
samarane  vadMh  \  3.  Kim  no  Ihratar  Agastya  itiMia  sann  ati  mcmyase  \ 
vidma  hi  te  yathd  mano  mmabhyam  in  na  ditsaai  |  "  Why  dost  thou  seek 
to  kill  us,  Indra  ?  The  Maruts  are  thy  brothers.  Act  amicably  to- 
wards them.  Do  not  kUl  us  in  the  fray."  ^'  Indra  then  says  to 
Agastya, V.  8.  "Why  dost  thoii,  brothet  Agastya,  being  our  friend, 
disregard  us  ?  For  'ff'e  know  h6W  thy  mind  is.  jDhou  wilt  not  give 
us  anything." — See  Koth's  Elucidations  of  Nirukta,  p.  6.)  In  i.  171, 
4,  also,  the  rishi,  after  imploring  the  favour  of  the  Maruts,  says  to 
them  apologetically :  asmdd  aham  tavishdd  ishamdnah  Indrdd  hhiyd 
Maruto  rejamdnah  |  yushmdbJiyafh  hmyd  niiitdni  dsan  tdni  dre  ehakrima 
mrilata  nah  |  "I  fled,  trembling  through  fear  of  the  mighty  Indra. 
Oblations  were  prepared  for  you ;  we  put  them  away  ;  be  merciful  to 
us."  (Compare  E.T.  iv.  18, 11  ;  Tiii.  7,  31,  and  viii.  85,  7,  quoted  above, 
pp.  92  ff.,  note.)  See  Professor  MuUer's  translation  of  i.  165,  and  the 
fuU  iUustrations  he  gives  of  its  signification  in  his  notes,  pp.  170  ff., 
179,  184,  186,  187,  189.  This  hymn  is  referred  to  in  the  following 
short  story  from  the  Taitt.  Brahmana,  ii.  7,  11,  1 :  Agastyo  mmrudhhyah 
ukshnah  prauhhat  \  tdn  Indrah  ddatta  \  te  enam  v<yram  udyatya  abhyd- 
yanta  \  tdn  Agastyai  chavoa  Indrah  cha  Ica/ydiubMyena  akamayatdm  \  tdn 
iantdn  wpdhoayata  yat  haydsulMyam  Ihemati  sdntyai  \  tasmdd  eie  ain- 
drdmdrutdh  ukshanah  iavantydh  hhavatiti  |  traya^  praihame  'hann  dld- 
hhyante  |  evani  dvitiye  \  evam  tritiye  \  paneha  uttame  'hann  dlalhyante  | 
"Agastya  was  immolating  bulls  to  the  Maruts.  These  bulls  Indra 
carried  off.  The  Maruts  ran  at  him  brandishing  a  thunderbolt.  Agastya 
and  Indra  pacified  them  with  the  kaydMhlya  "  (referring  to  !R.V.  i. 
165,  1,  of  which  the  first  verse  begins  with  the  words  kayd  iuhhd). 
"Indra  iiivited  them  to  the  ceremony  when  pacified,  for  the  kaydsvr- 
hhiya  is  used  for  pacification.  Hence  these  bulls  are  to  be  offered  both 
to  Indra  and  the  Maruts.  Three  are  sacrificed  on  the  first  day,  as 
many  on  the  second  and  third ;  on  the  last  day  five  are  immolated." 

In  the  following  passages  (some  of  which  have  been  already  quoted) 
the  Maruts  are  said  to  worship  Indra,  viz.,  iii.  32,  3 ;  v.  29,  1,  2,  6 ; 
viii.  3,  7 ;  viii.  78,  1,  3. 

2"  See  Both  on  the  sense  of  this  text,  s.v.  kalp. 


155 


SECTION  X. 

StETA. 
(1)  The  two  sun-gods  sep^ately  celebrated  in  the  hymns. 

Tie  great  powers  presiding  over  day  and  night  are,  as  we  have  seen 
above,  supposed  by  the  Indian  commentators  to  be  personified  in  Mitra 
and  Varuna.  But  these  deities,  and  especially  Varuna,  as  described  in 
the  Veda,  are  far  more  than  the  mere  representatives  of  day  and  night. 
They  are  also  recognized  as  moral  governors,  as  well  as  superintendents 
of  physical  phenomena.  There  are  two  other  gods  (also,  as  has  been 
already  noticed,  p.  54,  reckoned  in  a  few  passages  as  belonging  to  the 
Adityas),  who  are  exact  personifications  of  the  sun,'^  viz.,  Surya  and 
Savitri.**'  It  is  under  these  two  different  appdlations  that  the  sun  is 
chiefly  celebrated  in  the  Kig-veda ;  and  although  it  may  be  difficult  to 
perceive  why  the  one  word  should  be  used  in  any  particular  case 

^'  In  the  Homeric  hymn  to  Helios,  Terses  8  ff.,  the  sun  is  thus  described : 
&s  (palvei  BurrroTiTi  koI  iSavdroia't  6eo7ffiv 
Xinrois  ifjtfie^ad^s  •    fffiepivbv  S*  Sye  SepKerai  6ffffOis 
Xpvireiis  ^K  KifniSos-  ^ayuirpn!  S'  hicrtves  &!<■'  o6to5 
aiy\7ieif  ffTiK^ovci,  vapii  Kpordtpuf  re  irapetal 
Xa/ivpai  airb  Kparhs  X'^P^^"  Korrexovtri  jtp6(rairov 
rT\\avyis  •    KoAic  Se  irepl  XP''^  \diiirerai  effflos 
\e-jtTovpyes,  irvQt^  hv^iuav '    {nrh  5*  &pirfV€s  Xirirot 

•  **•«* 

Ipff  &p  Sye  aritaas  xpvaiivyov  Sipfia  koI  Xinrovs 
ttrirepios  irefiiri^tn  5l'  ttvpapov  'SlKeavivSe^ 
M3  Regarding  the  Greek  ideas  of  the  divinity  of  the  sun,  moon,  and  stars,  the 
reader  may  compare  the  passages  of  Plato  cited  or  referred  to  by  Mr.  Grote,  Plato, 
iii.  pp.  384,  414,  418,  449,  452,  497.  One  of  these  passages,  from  the  Laws  vii.  p. 
821,  is  as  follows  ■■—^0,  iyaBol,  KaTa>fiev56fi.eSa  vvv  iis  iirot  iiireiv  "EKXrives  navres 
litydKav  Beav,  'HKlov  re  a/ta  real  2eX^iT)s.  Again  in  the  Epinomis  p.  984,  mention  is 
made  of  the  visible  deities,  by  which  the  stars  are  meant :  0eobs  Se  Sii  Tois  Sparois, 
fieyldTovs  icai  Ti/iiuTdTovs  koI  'o^irarav  'opavTos  travrri,  Tohs  irpiirovs  r^v  tuv  iatpoiy 
ipiiTW  Mxreov,  k.t.A. 


156  SUEYA'S  PARENTAGE,  RELATIONS 

rather  than  the  other,  the  application  of  the  names  may  perhaps 
depend  upon  some  diflFerence  in  the  aspect  under  which  the  sun  is 
conceived,  or  on  some  diversity  in  the  functions  which  he  is  regarded 
as  fulfilling.  Different  sets  of  hymns  are,  at  all  events,  devoted  to  his 
worship  under  each  of  these  names,  and  the  epithets  which  are  applied 
to  him  in  each  of  these  characters  are  for  the  most  part  separate.  In 
some  few  places,  both  these  two  names,  and  occasionally  some  others, 
appear  to  he  applied  to  the  solar  deity  indiscriminately,  but  in  most 
cases  the  distinction  between  them  is  nominally,  at  least,  preserved. 

The  priacipal  hymns,  or  portions  of  hymns,  in  praise  of,  or  referring 
to,  Surj'a  are  the  following :— i.  50,  .1-13  ;  i.  115,  1-6  ;  iv.  13,  1-3  ; 
V.  40,  5,  6,  8,  9  ;  v.  45,  9,  10 ;  v.  59,  5  ;  vii.  60,  1-4 ;  x.  37,  1  S. ; 
X.  170.    He  is  treated  of  in  l^irukta,  xii.  14-16. 

(2)  Suri/a's  parentaffe,  relations  to  the  other  gods,  epithets,  and  functions. 


In  X.  37,  1,  Surya  is  styled  the  son  of  Dyaus  {Divas 
Surydya  iamsata).  In  x.  88,  11,  he  is  called  the  son  of  Aditi  {Suryam 
Aditeyam),  and  by  the  same  title  in  viii,  90,  11  {Ban  mahan  asi  Surya 
lal  Aditya  mahan  asi)  ;  but  in  other  places  he  appears  to  be  dis- 
tinguished from  the  Adityas,  as  in  viii.  35,  13  fif.  {sajoshasa  JJshasa 
Suryena  eha  Adityair  ydtam  Aivind).  Ushas  (the  Dawn)  is  in  one  place 
said  to  be  his  wife  {Suryasya  yoshd,  vii.  75,  5),  while  in  another 
passage,  vii.  78,  3,  the  Dawns  are,  by  a  natural  figure,  said  to  produce 
him  {qfyanan  suryam  yajnam  agnim)  along  with  Sacrifice  and  Agni, 
and  in  a  third  text,  to  reveal  all  th^  three  {praehihitat  suryam  ycy'nam 
agnim).  Surya  is  described  as  moving  on  a  car,  which  is  sometimes  said 
to  be  drawn  by  one  and  sometimes  by  several,  or  by  seven,  fleet  and 
ruddy  horses  or  mares  ^  (i.  115,  3,  4;  vii.  60,  3  :  ayukta  sapta  haritah 
sadhastdd  yah  im  vahanti  suryam  ghritdchlh) ;  vii.  63,  2  {yad  etah 
vahanti  dhurshu  yuktah;  compare  ix.  63,  7  :  ayukta  surah  etaiam  pava- 
mdnah) ;  x.  37,  3 ;  x.  49,  7.  His  path  is  prepared  by  the  Adityas, 
Mitra,  Aryaman,  and  Varuna,  i.  24,  8  {urum  hi  rdjd  Varunas  chakdra 
surydya  panthdm  anu  etavai  u) ;  vii.  60,  4  {yasmai  Aditydh  adhvano 
radanti  Mitro  Aryamd  Varunah  scyoshah);  vii.  87,  1.      Pushan  goes 

*"  Indra  is  said  to  traverse  the  sky  with  the  sun's  horses  [aham  Suryasya  pari 
yami  aiubhihpra  etaiebhir  vahamanah  ojasa,  x,  49,  7).  Compare  Ovid's  description 
of  Phaethon's  horses,  Metam.  ii.  153. 


TO   THE   OTHER  GODS,  EPITHETS,  AND   FUNCTIONS.      157 

as  his  messenger  with  his  golden  ships,  which  sail  in  the  aerial  ocean, 
vi.  58,  3  {yas  te  Pushan  ndvah  antah  samudre  hiranyayir  antarilcshe 
charanti  \  talJi/rvr  yasi  dutya&  suryasya).  He  is  the  preseryer  and.  soul 
of  all  things  stationary  and  moving,  i.  115,  1  {guryah  dtma  jagatas 
tastushascha) ;  vii.  60,  2  {viivasya  sthatur  jagatascha  gopah),  the  vivifler 
{prasavUd')'^  of  men,  and  common  to  them  all,  vii.  63,  2,  3  [sadhdramh 
suryo  mdnushdndm  \  uduetipraamitdjcmdndm).  Enlivened  by  him  men 
pursue  their  ends  and  perform  their  work,  vii.  63,  4  {nunam  jandh 
suryem prasutdh  aywnn  arthdni  Tcrinmann  apdmsi).  He  is  far-seeing, 
aU-seeing,  beholds  all  creatures,  and  the  good  and  bad  deeds  of  mortals,'"* 
i.  50,  2,  7 ;  vi.  51,  2 ;  vii.  35,  8 ;  vii.  60,  2 ;  vii.  61,  1 ;  vii.  63,  1,  4; 
X.  37,  1  {surdya  vUvachakshase  \  paiyan  janmdni  surya  \  suryah  uru- 
cliakshah  \  riju  marteshu  vrijind  cha  pakycm  \  abhi  yo  viiva  Ihuvanani 
chashte  \  duredriie).  He  is  represented  as  the  eye  of  Mitra  and  Varuna, 
and  sometimes  of  Agni  also,  i.  115,  1 ;  vi.  51,  1 ;  vii.  61,  1 ;  vii.  63,  1; 
X.  37,  1  {chahshwr  Mitrasya  Varumsya  Agmh  \  ohalcsJmr  Mitrmya 
Varunasya  \  namo  Mitrasya  Varumsya  ohalcshase).  In  one  passage, 
vii.  77,  3,  TJshas  (the  Dawn)  is  said  to  bring  the  eye  of  the  gods,  and 

245  This  word  and  others  derived  from  the  same  root  m  or  su,  are,  as  we  shall 
shortly  see,  very  frequently  applied  to  Savitri.  In  x.  66,  2,  the  gods  are  said  to  be 
iTidra-prasutah, 

"'  The  same  thing  is  naturally  and  frequently  said  of  the  sun  in  classical  litera- 
ture.    Thus  Homer  says,  Iliad,  iii.  277 : 

ili\i6s  &s  nrivr'  4<j>op^s  Hol  ndvr'  liraKOiieis-  k.t.\. 
and  again  in  the  Iliad,  xir.  344  f. : 

oirS'  tty  yui  diadpaKot  Tje\i6s  irep, 
o^Te  /cal  oiJnaTov  ireKsTUL  ^pdos  eiffopdao'Bai  • 
And  in  the  Odyssey,  viii.  270  f. : 

&^ap  Se  ol  &yy6\os  9i\6ey 
"HAios,   '6  irtp'  ^vSiiffe  fiiya^ofiej/ovs  ^i\6t7]TL. 
So  too  ..Sschylus  in  the  Prometheus  Vinctus  : 

ical  rbv  irav&irTTiv  k{>k\ov  7}\iov  KfiKa. 
And  Plutarch,  Isis  and  Osiris,  12 ; 

T^s  'Peos  pari  Kpvipa  t^  Kp6fif  avyyevonhiii  al(T86fi^vov  iira,pi<ra<rBai  rhv  "HKiof  • 
So  too  Ovid,  Metamorph.  iv.  171  f. ; 

Primus  adulterium  Veneris  cum  Marte  putatur 
Hie  vidisse  deus :  videt  hie  deus  omnia  primus. 

and  verses  19S  S. : 

qui  que  omnia  cernere  debes, 
Leucotheen  spectas :  et  virgins  flgis  in  una 
quos  mundo  debes  oculos. 


158  SUETA,   SUBOEDINATE   POSITION 

lead  on  the  bright  and  beautiful  horse,  by  which  the  sun  seems  to  be 
intended  {im&na^  chahshuh  mhhac/a  vahanti  heta&  nayanti  sudriilhcm 
asvam ;  compare  vii.  76,  1 :  Twaima  devanam  ajaniahta  chakshuK).^''  In 
X.  85,  1,  it  is  said  that  while  the  earth  is  upheld  by  truth,  the  sky  is 
upheld  by  the  sun  {satyenottabhita  hhUmih  suryenottaiMtd  dyauh).  He 
¥olIs  up  darkness  like  a  hide,  vii.  63,  1  (eharmeva  yah  samAmyak 
tamamsi).  By  his  greatness  he  is  the  divine  leader  (or  priest)  of  the 
gods,  viii.  90,  12  [maJmd  devanam  aswryah  pwoMtah).  In  viii.  82,  1,  4, 
he  is  identified  with  Indra,  or  vice  versd,  Indra  with  him.  In  x.  170, 
4,  the  epithets  viivaha/rman,  the  architect  of  the  universe,  and  vihadi- 
vya/uat,  possessed  of  aU  divine  attributes,  are  applied  to  him  (as  in  viii. 
87,  2,  Indra  also  is  styled  vihakmrmm  and  vikiadevd).  In  vii.  60;  1, 
and  vii.  62,  2,  he  is  prayed  at  his  rising  to  declare  men  sinless  to 
Mitra,  Varuna,  etc.  [^yad  adya  Surya  Ircmo  anagdh  udyan  Mitrdya 
Warumya  satyam). 

(3)  Subordinate  position  sometimes  assigned  to  him. 

In  many  passages,  however,  the  dependent  position  of  Surya  is 
asserted.  Thus  he  is  said  to  have  been  produced^,  or  caused  to  shine,  or 
to  rise,  or  to  have  his  path  prepared,  etc.,  by  Indra,  ii.  12,  7  {yah 
Suryam  yah  Ushasam  j<y'dna) ;  iiL  31,  15  {Inctro  nribhir  cyanad 
dldydnah  sdhm  Suryam  ushasam  gdtmm  Agnim) ;  iii.  32,  8;  i^jajdna 
Suryam  ushasam) ;  iii.  44,  2  {suryam  hwrymm  a/roehayah) ;  iii.  49,  4 
{janitd  suryasya);  vi.  17,  5;  vi.  30,  5  ;  viii.  78,  7  {d  suryam  rohayo 
divi);"*^  viii.  87,  2;  x.  171,  i  {tvam  tya/m  Indra- suryam paichd  santam 
pv/ras  'kridhi)  ;  by  Indra  and  Soma,  vi.  72,.  2  {ut  surya'Bi  nwyatho 
jyotishd  saha) ;  by  Agni,  x.  3,  2 ;  x.  156,  4  {Agne  nahshatram  OjO/ram 
&  surywfh  rohayo  diei  \  dadhcy  jyotir  jwnebhyalj) ;  by  the  TJshases  (Dawns), 

>"  In  V.  59,  3,  6,  and  x.  10,  9,  the  eye  of  the  sun  is  spoken  of;  and  in  i.  16,  3, 
the  affinity  of  the  eye  to  the  sun  is  indicated.  In  A.V.  v.  24,  9,  the  sun  is  said  to  he 
the  lord  of  eyes  {suryas  chakshmham  adhipatih),  and  in  A.V.  xiii.  1,  45,  he  is  said  to 
seeheyond  the  sky,  the  earth,  and  the  waters,  and  to- he  the  one  eye  of  created  things 
{suri/o  dyam  auryah  prithimm  suryah  apo  'tipasyati  \  suryo.  ihutasya  ekam  cha&shur 


"8  In  his  note  on  this  passage  (viii.  78,  7)  Sayana  relates  a  legend,  that  formerly 
the  Panis  had  carried  off  the  cows  of  the  Angirases,  and,  placed  them  on  a  mountain 
enveloped  in  darkness,  when  Indra,  after  being  lauded  by  the  Angirases,  and  suppli- 
cated to  restore  the  cows,  caused  the  sun  to  rise  that  he  might  see  them. 


SOMETIMES   ASSIGNED   TO   HIM.  159 

vii.  78,  3.  {oQljanan  suri/am  yaQnam  agrdm);  by  Soma,  vi.  44,  23  {ayam 
surye  adadhdj  jyoti^r  antah) ;  ix.  63,  7 ;  ix.  75,  1  ;  ix.  86,  29  {ta/oc^ 
jyotlmsU  pwoamandi  suryatt);  ix.  96,  5  (jmitd  suryasya);  ix.  97,  41 ; 
ix.  107,  7;  ix.  110,  3);  by  Dhatri,  x-  190,  3  {surya-chmdramasat^ 
Bhata  yath^purmm  akalpayai)  ;  by  Varuna,  i.  24,  8  ;  vii.  87,  1 
(quoted  above);  by  Mitra  and  Varuna,  iv.  13,  2  {anu  wataih  Vmrmo 
yamti  Mitro  yat  sHryafk  Umi  arohayanti) ;  v.  63,  4,  7  {suryam  a  dJcatiho 
divi) ;  Indra  and  Varuna,  vii.  82,  3  {siiryam  awa/yoitam  divi  pral>him)  j^ 
by  Indra  and  Vishnu,  vii.  99,  4  (wum,  yafnaya  chahrathwr  u  lokafh, 
janayantd  siiryam  ushasim  aynim),  and  by  the  Angirases  through,  their 
rites,  X.  62,  3  (ye  ritem  suryam  drohayan,  divi  aprathayan  prithivim 
mdtaram  vi).  In  passages  of  this  description  the  divine  personality  of 
the  sun  is  thrown  into  the  background :  the  gr^nd  luminary  becomes 
little  more  than  a  part  of  nature,  created  and  controlled  by  those 
spiritual  powers  which  exist  above  and  beyond  aU  material  phenomena. 
The  divine  power  of  Mitra  and  Varuna  is  said  to  be  shown  in  the  sky, 
where  Surya  moves  a  lumjuary  and  a  bright  agent  [or  instrument]  of 
theirs ;  whom  again  they  conceal  by  clouds  and  rain,  v.  63,  4  {mdyd 
vdm  Mitrdvarund  divi  i;!«<a  suryo  jyotii  chmrat^  chitram  dyudham  |  tam 
aikrenavrishtyd  guJiatho  divi).  He  is  declared  to  be  god-born,  x.  37, 1 ; 
to  be  the  son  of  the  sky,  ibid,  {devajdtdya  heta/ve  Divas  putraya  Surydya) ; 
to  have  been  drawn  by  the  gods  from  the  ocean  where  he  was  hidden 
(x.  72,  7,  see  above,  p.  48) ;  to  have,  been  placed  by  the  gods,  in  heaven, 
X.  88, 11  {yadd  id  enam  adaditir  yafniyds/ii  divi  devdh  suryam  dditeyam), 
where  he  is  identified  with  Agni ;  and  to  have  sprung  from  the  eye  of 
Purusha,  x.  90,  13.  {ehahshoh  suryo  ajdyata)}^  He  is  also  said  to  have 
been  overcome  and  despoiled  by  Indra,  x.  43,  5  (smmva/rga'ih,  yan  maghwvd 
suryam  jayat),^^  who,  in  some  obscure  verses  is  alluded  to  as  having 
carried  off  one  of  the  wheels  of  his  chariot,  i.  175,  4  ;  iv.  28,  2 ; 
iv.  30,  4 ;  V.  29,  10. 

{'^)Translatidn  of  a  hymn  to  Surya. 

I  subjoin,  with  a  translation,  the  greater  part  of  the  picturesque,  if 
somewhat  monotonous,  hymn,  i.  50 :   Vd  u  tya/ih  jdta/vedasam  devam. 

^'  In  the  A.V.  it.  10,  5,  the  sun, is  said  to  haw  sprang  froni  Vyittra  {Vrittrajjata 


250  gee  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  92  f. 


160  HYMN   TO   SUEYA. 

vahanti  Tcetmal),  \  driie  viivaya  suryam  \  2.  Apa  tye  tdyavo  yathd 
nakshattra  yawti  aktuhhih  \  suraya  vUvachakshase  \  3.  Adrisram  asya 
Teetcmo  vi  raimayo  janan  anu  \  hhrajarito  agnayo  yatha  \  41  Twranir 
mhadariato  jyoUsMrid  asi  surya  \  viivam  a  hhasi  rodhanam  |  b.Pratyan 
devanam  vUah  pratyann  ud  eshi  manusMn  |  praiyan  mham  svar  drise  \ 
6.  Yena  pavaha  chakshasa  IJmranycmtam  janan  anu  \  tvarh  Varuna 
paiyasi  \  1.  Vi  dyam,  eshi  rajas  priihu  aha  mimano  aktuhhih  \  paiyan 
janmani  surya  \  8.  Sapta  tva  harito  rathe  vahanti  deva  siirya  \  sochdsh- 
ke&afh  vichakshana  \  9.  ayukta  sapta  iundhyuvah  suro  rathasya  naptyah  \ 
tdhhir  yati  svayuktihhih  \  10.  Ud  vayam  tamasas  pari  jyotish  paiyantah 
uttaram  \  devam  devatrd  suryam  aganma  jyotir  uttamam  \ 

1.  " The  heralds'**'  lead  aloft  this  god  Surya,  who  knows  all  beings, 
(manifesting  him)  to  the  universal  gaze.  2.  (Eclipsed)  by  thy  rays, 
the  stars  slink  away,  like  thieves,  before  thee  the  all-beholding 
luminary.  3.  His  rays  revealing  (his  presence)  are  visible  to  aU  man- 
kind, flaming  like  fires.  4.  Traversing  (the  heavens),  all-conspicuous, 
thou  Greatest  light,  o  Surya,  and  illuminatest  the  whole  firmament.  5. 
Thou  risest  in  the  presence  of  the  race  of  gods,  of  men,  and  of  the 
entire  heaven,  that  thou  mayest  be  beheld.  6.  "With  that  glance  of 
thine  wherewith,  o  illuminator,  o  Varuna,  thOu  surveyest  the  busy  race 
of  men,^'^  7.  thou,  o  Surya,  penetratest  the  sky,  the  broad  firma- 
ment, measuring  out  the  days  with  thy  rays,  spying  out  all  creatures. 
8.  Seven  ruddy  mares  bear  thee  onward  in  thy  chariot,  o  clear-sighted 
Surya,  the  god  with  flaming  locks.  9.  The  sun  has  yoked  the  seven 
brilliant  mares,  the  daughters  of  the  car ;  with  these,  the  self -yoked,  he 
advances.  10.  Gazing  towards  the  upper  light  beyond  the  darkness, 
we  have  ascended  to  the  highest  luminary,  Surya,  a  god  among  the 
gods."  "^ 

*5i  In  his  translation  of  E.V.  i.  166,  1,  Professor  MuUer  renders  ketu  by  herald 
(see  pp.  197,  and  201),  a  sense  which  suits  the  verse  before  us  very  well. 

'*'  See  Professor  Benfey's  translation,  and  note  (Orient  und  Occident,  i.  p  405), 
and  the  passage  of  Eoth's  Abhandlungen  (Dissertations  on  the  literature  and  history 
of  the  Veda)  p.  81  f.,  to  which  he  refers ;  and  in  which  that  writer  regards  the  reading 
janan  as  standing  for  jmmm,  the  ace.  sing.,  the  last  syllable  being  lengthened  on 
account  of  the  metre. 
"5'  I  subjoin  a  metrical  translation  of  these  yerses : 
1.  By  lustrous  heralds  led  on  high, 
The  omniscient  Sun  ascends  the  sky, 
His  glory  drawing  every  eye. 


HYMNS  TO  StTETA.  161 

The  Atharva-veda  contains  a  long  hymn  to  Surya,  xiii.  2,  partly  made 
up  of  extracts  from  the  Eig-veda. 

The  Mahabharata  (iii.  166  ff.)  also  has  a  hymn  to  the  same  god,  in 
which  he  is  styled  "  the  eye  of  the  world,  and  the  soul  of  all  embodied 
creatures,"  v.  166  (tvam  hhdno  jagata§  chakshus  tvam  atmd  sarva-dehi- 
ndm) ;  the  source  of  all  beings,  the  body  of  observances  performed  by 
those  who  practise  ceremonies,  the  refuge  of  the  Sankhyas,  the 
highest  object  of  Togins,  the  unbolted  door,  the  resort  of  those  seeking 
emancipation,  etc.,  etc. ;  v.  166  f.  {tva&  yonih  sarva-hhutdnam  tvam  dchd- 
rahhriyavatam  \  tvam gatih sarva-sdnhhfdnd'fh  yogindrhtvampardyanam  \ 
andvritd/rgalackdrafii  tvam  gatis  tvam,  mumukshatdm) ;  and  his  celestial 
chariot  {Mvyafh  ratham)  is  referred  to  (v.  170).  He  is  also,  we  are  told, 
said  by  those  who  understand  the  computation  of  time,  to  be  the  be- 
ginning and  end  of  that  period  of  a  thousand  yugas  known  as  the  day 
of  'Biahma,  {yad  aho  Brahmanah  prohtam  mhasra-yuga-sammitam  \  tasya 
tvam  adir  antai  oha  Tcdlajnaih  samprahirttitah) ;  the  lord  of  the  Manus, 
of  their  sons,  of  the  world  sprung  from  Manu,  and  of  all  the  lords  of 
the  Manvantaras.  "When  the  time  of  the  mundane  dissolution  has 
arrived,  the  Samvarttaka  fire,  which  reduces  all  things  to  ashes,  issues 
from  his  wrath  (vv.  185  f.;  compare  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp. 
43  f.  and  207). 

2.  AH -seeing  Sun,  the  stars  so  bright, 

"Which  gleamed  throughout  the  sombre  night. 
Now  scared,  like  thieves,  slink  fast  away, 
Quenched  by  the  splendour  of  thy  ray. 

3.  Thy  beams  to  men  thy  presence  shew ; 
Like  blazing  fires  they  seem  to  glow. 

4.  Conspicuous,  rapid,  source  of  light, 
Thou  makest  all  the  welkin  bright. 

6.  In  sight  of  gods,  and  mortal  eyes. 

In  sight  of  heaven  thou  scal'st  the  skies. 

6.  Bright  god,  thou  scann'st  with  searching  ken 
The  doings  all  of  busy  men. 

7.  Thou  stridest  o'er  the  sky ;  thy  rays 
Create,  and  measure  out,  our  days ; 
Thine  eye  all  living  things  surveys. 

8.  9.  Seven  lucid  mares  thy  chariot  bear, 
Self-yoked,  atbwart  the  fields  of  air, 
Bright  Surya,  god  with  flaming  hair. 
10.  That  glow  above  the  darkness  we 
Beholding,  upward  soar  to  thee, 
For  there  among  the  gods  thy  light 
Supreme  is  seen,  divinely  bright.  11 


162 


SECTION  XI. 

SAVITRI. 
(1)  Sis  epiihefs,  characteristics,  and  functions. 

The  hymns  which  are  entirely  or  principally  devoted  to  the  cele- 
bration of  Savitri  are  the  following :  i.  35 ;  ii.  38  ;  iv.  53  ;  iv.  54  ; 
V.  81 ;  V.  82  ;  vii.  37 ;  vii.  45  ;  x.  149  ;  with  many  detached  passages 
and  verses,  such  as  i.  22,  5-8 ;  iii.  56,  6,  7 ;  iii.  62,  10-12,  etc.,  etc. 

The  epithets,  characteristics,  and  functions  of  this  god,  as  described 
in  the  Rig-veda,  are  as  follows : 

He  is  pre-eminently  the  golden  deity,  being  hiranyaksha,  golden- 
eyed  (i.  35,  8) ;  hiranya-pani,'^^  hiranya-hasta,  golden-handed  (i.  22,  5 ; 
i.  35,  9,  10;  iii.  54,  11;  vi.  50,8;  vi.  71,4;  vii.  38,  2;  S.V.i.  464; 
Vaj.  S.  i.  16;  iv.  25;  A.V.  iii.  21,  8;  vii.  14,  2;  vii.  115,  2;^'= 
Jwranya-jihva,  golden-tongued  (vi.  71,  3) ;  siy'ilma,  beautiful- tongued 
(iii.  54,  11;  vii.  45,  4);  mandra-jihva,  pleasant-tongued  (vi.  71,  4). 
He  invests  himself  with  golden  or  tawny  mail  {piiangam  drapim, 
iv.  53,  2) ;  and  assumes  aU  forms  {viiva  rupani  prati  munchate  Icavih, 
V.  81,  2).  He  is  also  hariheia,  the  yeUow-haired  (x.  139, 1).  Luminous 
in  his  aspect,  he  ascends  a  golden  car,  drawn  by  radiant,  brown, 
white-footed,  horses ;  and  beholding  all  creatures,  he  pursues  an 
ascending  and  descending  path,  i.  35,  2-5  ;  vii.  45,  1  {hiranyayena 
Smita  rathena  devo  ydti  hhuvandni  paiyan  \  ydti  devah  prcmatd  ydti 
wdvatd  ydti   iulrdhhydm    yajato    hmribhydm   \    lerisanair  visvarupain 

M4  gee  the  tasteless  explanations  of  this  epithet  given  by  the  commentator  and  the 
Kaushitaki  Brahmana,  as  mentioned  in  Rosen's  and  Wilson's  notes  on  i.  22,  5 ;  and 
see  also  Weber's  Ind.  Studien,  ii.  306.  The  same  epithet  is  given  to  Savitri  in  the 
Vaj.  Sanhita,  i,  16,  where  see'  the  commentary.  Savitfi  is  also  called  prithupani, 
broad-handed  (ii.  38,  2),  and  mpani,  beautiful-handed  (iii.  33,  6 ;  vii.  45,  4). 
Tvashtri,  too,  is  called  supani  (iii.  54,  12),  as  are  also  Mitra  and  Varuna  (iii.  56,  7). 

265  According  to  the  A.V.  i.  33, 1,  he,  as  well  as  Agni,  was  born  in  the  golden- 
coloured  waters  {Mranymarna^  iuehayah  pavakah  ySsu  jatah  Savita  yasu  Agnih). 


SAVITRPS  EPITHETS,  CHAEACTERISTICS,  ETC.  163 

hiranya-iamyam  yajato  hrihantam  a  astkad  ratham  savitd  nhitrahha- 
nuh  I  vijandn  iyavah  iitipddah  akJvyan  ratham  Mranyaprailgam  valmn- 
tah  I  mvitd  stiratno  antwrikshaprah  vakamdno  aivaih).  Surrounded  by 
a  golden  lustre,  Mranyaylm  amatim  (iii.  38,  8  ;  vii.  38,  1 ;  vii.  45, 
3),  he  illuminates  the  atmosphere,  and  all  the  regions  of  the  earth, 
i.  35,  7,  8;  iv.  14,  2;  iv.  53,  4;  v.  81,  2  («'  stiparno  antarikshdni 
akhyat  |  ashtau  vi  akhyat  kakubhah  prithwydh  |  urdhvam  ketum  savita 
devo  aSrej  j'yotir  viivasmai  hhuvandya  krinvan  \  ad&bhyo  hhuvandni  pra- 
chdkasat  \  vi  ndkam  akhyat  Savitd).  His  robust  and  golden  arms,'"' 
which  he  stretches  out  to  bless,  and  infuse  energy  into,  all  creatures, 
reach  to  the  utmost  ends  of  heaven,  ii.  38,  2;  iv.  53,  3,  4;  vi.  71,  1, 
5 ;  vii.  45,  2  (viivasya  hi  srushtaye  devah  urdhvah  pra  hdhavd  prithu- 
panih  sisartti  \  pra  hdhu  asrak  Savitd  savimani  \  ud  u  sya  devah  Savitd 
hiranyayd  hdhu  ayoMda  savandya  sukratuh  |  ud  asya  hahu  iithird  hri- 
hantd  hiranyayd  divo  antdn  anashtdm).  In  one  place,  however  (vi.  71, 
4),  he  is  called  ayohanu,  the  iron-jawed,  though  even  there  the  com- 
mentator says  that  ayas,  which  ordinarily  means  iron,  is  to  be  rendered 
by  gold.  His  ancient  paths  in  the  sky  are  said  to  be  free  from  dust, 
i.  35,  11  (ye  te  panthdh  Savitah  purvydso  arenavah  sukritdh  antarikshe). 
He  is  called  (like  Varuna  and  others  of  the  gods)  asura,  a  divine  spirit 
(i.  35,  7,  10;  iv.  53,  1).  His  will  and  independent  authority  cannot 
be  resisted  by  Indra,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman,  Budra,  or  by  any  other 
being,  ii.  38,  7,  9 ;  v.  82,  2  {nakir  asya  tdni  vratd  devasya  Savitur 
minanti  \  na  yasya  Indro  Faruno  na  Mitro  vratam  Aryamd  na  minanti 
£udrah  |  asya  hi  svayaiastaram  Savituh  kaoh  ehana  priyam  \  na  minanti 
svardjyam).  He  observes  fixed  laws,  iv.  53,  4;  x.  34,  8;  x.  139,  3 
{vratdni  devah  Savitd  'bhirakshate  \  Savitd  satyadharmd).  The  other 
gods  follow  his  lead,  v.  81,  3  {yasya  praydnam  anu  anye  id  yaywr 
devah).  The  waters  and  the  wind  obey  his  ordinance,  ii.  38,  2  {dpai 
chid  asya  vrate  d  nimrigrdh  ayam  chid  vato  ramate  pwrijman).  His 
praises  are  celebrated  by  the  Vasus,  by  Aditi,  by  the  royal  Taruna,  by 
Mitra,  and  by  Aryaman,  vii.  38,  3,  4  {api  stutah  Savitd  devo  astu  yam 
d  chid  visve  Yaswoo  grinanti  \  abhi  yam  devi  Aditir  grindti  savam  devasya 

2^8  Indra,  too,  is  called  hiranya-balm,  golden-armed,  vii.  34,  4.  Agni  is  said  to 
raise  aloft  his  arms  like  Savitri,  i.  96,  7.  In  yii.  79,  2,  the  Dawns  aie  said  to  send 
forth  light  as  Savitri  stretches  out  his  arms.  In  i.  190,  3,  also  the  arms  of  Savitri 
are  alluded  to.  In  vii.  62,  5,  Mitra  and  Varuna  are  supplicated  to  stretch  out 
their  arms. 


164  SAVITRI'S  FUNCTIONS. 

SavU'ur  jushdna  \  alhi  samrajo  Varuno  grinanti  ahhi  Mttrdso  Arywma 
sqfoshah).  He  is  lord  of  all  desirable  things,  and  sends  blessings  from 
the  sky,  from  the  atmosphere,  and  from  the  earth,  i.  24,  3  ;  ii.  38,  11 
{liandm  vdryanam  \  asmabhyam  tad  divo  adVhyah  prithivyda  tvayd  dattafh 
kdmyoM  rddhah  a  gat  |  Sam  yat  stotrtbhyah  d^aye  Ihavdti  urusamsaya 
Saaitwr  jwritre).  He  impels  the  car  of  the  Asvins  before  the  dawn,  i. 
34,  10  {yuvor  M  purvdrn  Scwitd  ushaso  ratham  ritdya  cJdtram  ghrita- 
vantam  ishyati).  He  is  prajdpati^^''  the  lord  of  all  creatures,  the  sup- 
porter of  the  sky  and  of  the  world,  and  is  supplicated  to  hasten  to  his 
worshippers  with  the  same  eagerness  as  cattle  to  a  village,  as  warriors 
to  their  horses,  as  a  cow  to  give  milk  to  her  calf,  as  a  husband  to  his 
wife,  iv.  53,  2;  iv.  54,  4;  x.  149,  1,  4"^^  {Bivo  dharttd  Ihuvwnasya 
prajdpatih  I  Savitd  yamtraih  prithivlm  aramndd  aslcambhane  Savitd 
dydm  adrimhat  \  4.  Odvah  iva  grdmam  yuyudhir  ivdhdn  vdirena  vatsaffi 
sumandh  duhdnd  \  patw  iva  jdydm  ahhi  no  ni  etu  dharta  divah  Scwitd 
vihavdrah).  In  v.  82,  7,  he  is  called  viivadeva,  "in  all  attributes  a 
god."  He  measured  (or  fashioned)  the  terrestrial  regions,  v.  81,  3 
{yah  parthivdni  vi  mame).  He  bestows  immortality  on  the  gods,  iv. 
54,  2  =  Vaj.  Sanh.  xxxiii.  54  {develhyo  hi  prathamam  yajniyehhyo 
amritatvam  suvasi  bhdgam  uttamam),  as  he  did  on  the  Eibhus,  who 
by  the  greatness  of  their  merits  attained  to  his  abode,  i.  110,  2,  3 
'{eharitasya  bhumana  agachhata  Savitur  ddiusho  griham  |  tat  Smitd  vo 
amritatvam  dstwat).  In  x.  17,  4,  he  is  prayed  to  convey  the  departed 
spirit  to  the  abode  of  the  righteous  {yairdsate  sukrito  yatra  te  yayus 
tatra  tvd  devah  Savitd  dadhdtu).  He  is  supplicated  to  deliver  his  wor- 
shippers from  sin,  iv.  54,  3  [achitti  yach  ohahrima  daivye  jane  .  .  .  .  | 
deveshu  eha  Savitar  mdnusheshu  cha  tvaM  no  attra  suvatdd  andgasah). 

Savitri  ^is  sometimes  called  apam  napdt,  son  of  the  waters  (x.  149, 
2),  an  epithet  which  is  more  commonly  applied  to  Agni. 

'"  In  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  i.  6,  4,  1  (p.  117),  it  is  said,  Prajapatih  Savita 
hhutm  prajah  asrijata,  "  Prajapati,  becoming  Savitri,  created  living  beings."  On 
the  relation  of  Savitri  and  Prajapati  see  Weber,  "  Omina  nnd  Portenta,"  pp.  386, 
392 ;  and  the  passage  of  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xii.  3,  5,  1,  where  it  is  said  that 
people  are  accustomed  to  identify  Savitri  with  Prajapati,  To  hy  eva  Savita  sa  Fraja- 
patir  iti  vadcmtah,  etc.,  etc. 

2"  It  is  not  clear  whether  it  is  Savityi  or  the  aerial  ocean  {samudra)  from  which 
earth,  atmosphere,  and  sty  are  said  in  x.  149,  2,  to  have  sprung.  See  the  4th  vol. 
of  this  work,  p.  96. 


DERIVATION  OF  SAVITRI'S  NAME.  165 


(2)  Passages  in  which  the  origin  of  his  name  seems  to  he  alluded  to. 

The  word  Savitri  is  defined  by  Taska  (Nirukta,  x.  31  as  meaning 
sa/rvasya  prasavita,  but  he  does  not  explain  in  what  sense  prasavita  is 
to  be  taken.  The  root  su  or  su,  from  ■which  it  is  derived,  has  three 
principal  significations,  (1)  to  generate  or  bring  forth;  (2)  to  pour 
forth  a  libation ;  and  (3)  to  send  or  impel.  When  treating  of  deriva- 
tives of  this  root  as  applied  to  Savitri,  Sayana  sometimes  gives  them  the 
sense  of  sending  or  impelling,  and  sometimes  of  permitting  or  authorizing 
(amy'na).  In  a  few  places  he  explains  the  root  as  meaning  to  beget. 
(Thus  on  i.  113,  1,  he  renders  prasuta  by  ntpanna,  and  savah  by  ut- 
pattih).  The  word  prasmiitri,  as  well  as  various  other  derivatives  of 
the  root  su,  are  introduced  in  numerous  passages  of  the  Eig-veda  relat- 
ing to  the  god  Savitri,  with  evident  reference  to  the  derivation  of  that 
name  from  the  same  root,  and  with  a  constant  play  upon  the  words,"' 
such  as  is  unexampled  in  the  case  of  any  other  deity. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  passages  of  the  Eig-veda  in  which 
these  derivatives  occur : 

i.  124,  1.  Devo  no  atra  Savita  nu  artham  prasavld  dvipat  pra  eha- 
tushpad  ityai  \  "  The  god  Savitri  hath  impelled  (or  aroused)  both  two- 
footed  and  four-footed  creatures  to  pursue  their  several  objects." 

i.  157,  1.  Prdsdvid  devah  Savita  jag  at  prithak  \  "The  god  Savitri 
has  aroused  each  moving  thing  "  (comp.  i.  159,  3). 

V.  81,  2  (=Vaj.  San.  xiii.  3).  Tiha  rupdni  prati  munohate  kamh 
prasavld  hhadram,  dvipade  ehatushpade  \  vi  nakam,  ahhyat  Savita  varenyo 
anu  praydnam  Ushaso  virdjati  \  5.  Uta  iSishe  prasavasya  tvam  eJcah  id 
uta  Pushd  Ihamasi  deva  ydmabhih  \  "  The  wise  (Savitri)  puts  on  (or, 
manifests)  all  forms.  He  hath  sent  prosperity  to  biped  and  quadruped. 
Savitri,  the  object  of  our  desire,  has  illuminated  the  sky.  He  shines 
after  the  path  of  the  Dawn."  5.  "  Thou  alone  art  the  lord  of  vivifying 
power,  and  by  thy  movements,  o  god,  thou  becomest  Pushan,  (or  the 
nourisher)." 

i.  110,  2.  Saudhanvandsai  eha/ritasya  hhumarm,  ayachhata  Savitur 

259  See  Eoth's  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  76.  I  cannot  form  an  opinion 
whether  this  feature  in  the  hymns  iu  question  affords  any  sufficient  ground  for  regard- 
ing them  as  artificial  in  character,  and  consequently  as  comparatively  late  in  their 
origin. 


166  PASSAGES  WHERE  THE  ORIGIN  OF 

ddsusho  griham  \  3.  Tat  Savitd  vo  amritatvam  asmal  \  "  Sons  of 
Sudhanvan  (Ribhus),  by  tie  greatness  of  your  deeds  ye  arrived  at  the 
house  of  the  bountiful  Savitri.  3.  Savitri  bestowed  on.  you  {aamat) 
that  immortality." 

i.  159,  5.  Tad  rddho  adya  Smitv/r  vwrenya^  myam  devasya  praaa/ee 
mandmahe  |  "That  desirable  wealth  we  to-day  seek  through  the 
fayouring  impulse  of  the  divine  Savitri." 

ii.  38,  1.  Ud  u  syah  devah  Savitd  sa/vdya  iaivatamam  tad-apdh  vahnir 
asthdt  I  "  The  god  Savitri  hath  arisen  to  impel  (or  vivify)  us,  he  who 
contimuaUy  so  worts,  the  supporter." 

iii.  33,  6  (Nir.  ii.  26).  Bevo  amayat  Savitd  supdnis  tasya  vayam pra- 
sme  yamah  wrvih  \  "  The  god  Savitri  hath  led  (us,  i.e.  the  waters) ;  by 
his  propulsion  we  flow  on  broadly." 

iii.  56,  6.  Trir  d  divah  Savitah  vdryani  dive  dive  dsuva  trir  no  ahnah  \ 
7.  Trir  d  divah  Savitd  soshaviti  rdj'dnd  Mitrdvaruna  swpdm.  \  "  Thrice 
every  day,  o  Savitri,  send  us  desirable  things  from  the  sky.  7.  Thrice 
Savitri  continues  to  send  down  (these  things  to  us)  from  the  sky ;  and 
so  also  do  the  fair-handed  Mitra  and  Varuna." 

iv.  53,  3.  Fra  hdhu  asrdlc  Savitd  mvlmani  nivesayan  prasuvann  ah- 
tuhhir  jagat  \  6.  Brihatsumnah  prasa/vitd  niveiano  jagatah  sthdtwr  ullm- 
yasya  yo  vail  \  sa  no  devah  Savitd  sarma  yachhatu  |  "  Savitri  hath 
stretched  out  his  arms  in  his  vivifying  energy  {savlmani"^"),  stablish- 
ing  and  animating  aU  that  moves  by  his  rays.  6.  May  that  god 
Savitri,  who  bestows  great  happiness,  the  vivifier,  the  stablisher,  who 
is  lord  both  of  that  which  moves  and  of  that  which  is  stationary, 
bestow  on  us  protection." 

iv.  54,  3.  Aehittl  yach  ehaJcrima  daivye  jane  dinair  dakshaih  prdbhvM 
purushvatd  \  deveshu  eha  Savitar  mdnusheshu  cha  tvam  no  atra  suvatdd 
andgasah  \  "  Whatever  (offence)  we  have  committed  by  want  of 
thought,  against  the  divine  race,  by  feebleness  of  understanding,  by 
violence,  after  the  manner  of  men,  and  either  against  gods  or  men,  do 
thou,  o  Savitri,  constitute  {simatdt)  us  sinless." 

V.  82,  3.  Sa  hi  ratndni  ddswshe  simdti  Savitd  Bhagah  \  4.  Adya  no 
devah  Savitah  prafdvat  sdvlh  sauhhagam  \  para   dushoapnyam  mva  \ 

5.  Visvani  deva  Sa/eitar  duritdni pard  suva  yad  phadram  tan  nah  dsuva  | 

6.  Andgasah  Aditaye  devasya  Savituh  save  \   visvd  vdmdni  dhlmahi  \ 

Mi>  This  word  also  occurs  in  Sama-veda,  i.  464. 


SAVITRI'S  NAME  IS  ALLUDED  TO.  167 

7.  A  viivadevam  satpatilh  suktair  adya  vrinimahe  \  mtyaswooMi  Savi- 
taram  \  "  May  he,  Savitri,  who  is  Bhaga,  (or  the  protector,  hhaga), 
send  wealth  to  his  worshipper.  4.  Send  {savih)  to-day,  o  divine 
Savitri,  prosperity  T^ith  progeny:  send  away  {pa/ra-suva)  sleeplessness 
(compare  x.  37,  4,  where  a  similar  expression  {apa  sima)  is  employed 
in  the  case  of  Surya).  6.  Send  away,  o  divine  Savitri,  aU  calamities; 
send  {asv/Do)  us  what  is  good.  6.  May  we,  hecoming  sinless  towards 
Aditi,  through  the  influence  {smd)  of  the  divine  Savitri,  possess  all 
things  desirable.  7.  "We  seek  to-day,  with  hymns,  for  Savitri,  who 
possesses  true  energy  {satya-sma  '^'),  and  all  divine  attributes,  the  lord 
of  the  good." 

vi.  71,  1.  Ud  u  syah  devah  Savita  Mr  any  ay  a  haJiv.  ayamsta  smanaya 
sukratuh  \  2.  Devasya  vayam  Savituh  savtmani  ireslithe  syama  vasunaS 
cha  davane  \  yo  viivasya  dvipado  yas  eAatushpado  nweiane  prasave 
chad  bhumanah  \  6.  Vdmam  adya  Savitar  vamam  u  ho  dive  dive 
vamam  asmabhyam  sdvlh  \  "  The  potent  god  Savitri  hath  stretched 
out  his  golden  arms  to  vivify  (or  impart  energy).  2.  May  we  share 
in  the  excellent  vivifying  power  (compare  x.  36,  12)  of  the  god 
Savitri,  and  in  the  bestowal  of  wealth  by  thee,  who  continuest  to 
stablish  and  vivify  the  entire  two-footed  and  four-footed  world.  6_ 
Send  to  us  to-day,  Savitri,  what  is  desirable ;  send  it  to  us  to-morrow, 
and  every  day." 

vii.  38,  2.  Ud  u  tishtha  Savitah  .  .  .  a,  nribhyo  marttabhojanam  suva- 
nah  I  4.  Abhi  yam  devi  Aditir  grinati  savam  devasya  Savitur  j'ushdnd  \ 
abhi  samrdj'o  Varuno  grinanti  abhi  Mitraso  Aryama  sty'oshdh  |  "  Else, 
Savitri,  .  .  .  sending  {dsiwdnah)  to  men  the  food  which  is  fit  for  mor- 
tals. 4.  "Whom  (i.e.  Savitri)  the  goddess  Aditi  praises,  welcoming  the 
vivifying  power  of  the  divine  Savitri,  whom  Varuna,  Mitra,  and  Ar- 
yaman  laud  in  coijcert." 

vii.  40,  1.  Yad  adya  demah,  Swoitd  suvdti  sydma  asya  ratnino  vibhdge  | 
"  May  we  partake  in  the  distribution  (of  wealth)  which  the  opulent  god 
Savitri  shall  send  to-day." 

vii.  45,  1.  A  devo  ydtu  Sm>ita  swatno  antariksha-prSh  vahamdno 
aSvaih  |  haste  dadhdno  naryd  puruni  niveiayan  cha  prasuvan  cha  bhuma  \ 
3.  Sa  gha  no  devah  Sewiid  sahdvd  sdvishad  vasupatir  vasuni  |  "  May  the 

261  The  same  epithet  is  applied  to  him  in  x.  36,  13.  It  occurs  also  in  the  Sama- 
veda,  i.  464,  ^ 


168  SAVITRI  SOMETIMES  DISTINGUISHED  FROM, 

god  Savitri  approach,  rich  in  treasures,  filling  the  atmosphere,  home 
hy  horses,  holding  in  his  hand  many  gifts  suitahle  for  men,  stablishing 
and  vivifying  the  world.  3.  May  the  powerful  god  Savitri,  lord  of 
wealth,  send  us  riches." 

viii.  91,  6.  Asavam  Semitv/r  yatha  Bhagasyeva  hhy'im  hme  \  Agnim 
aamud/rmasasam  \  "I  invoke  the  sea-clothed  Agni,  as  (I  invoke)  the 
vivifying  power  {smiam  ^^^)  of  Savitri  and  the  bounty  of  Bhaga." 

X.  35,  7.  Sreshtham  no  adya  Savitar  varenyam  bhagam  asuva  sa  hi 
iratnadhah  asi  \  "  Send  us  to-day,  o  god  Savitri,  a  most  excellent  and 
desirable  portion,  for  thou  art  the  possessor  of  riches." 

X.  36, 14.  Saoita  nah  suvatu  sarvatatim  \  "May  Savitri  send  (suvatu) 
all  prosperity,"  etc. 

X.  100,  8.  Apa  amlvam  Savita  savishad  nj/iaA  \  "May  Savitri  remove 
{apasdvishat)  sickness." 

X.  139,  1.  Suryarasmir  hmrikeiah  purmt&t  Savita  jyotw  ud  ay  an 
(yasram  \  tasya  Pusha  prasave  yati  vidvan  sampaiyan  visva  bhwanam 
gopah  I  "  Invested  with  the  solar  rays,  with  yeUow  hair,  Savitri  raises 
aloft  his  light  continually  from  the  east.  In  his  energy  {prasa/B.^)  the 
wise  Pushan  marches,  beholding  all  worlds,  a  guardian." 

Compare  A.V.  v.  24,  1 ;  vii.  14,  1,  3;  vii.  15,  1. 

The  preceding  passages  will  suffice  to  show  the  extent  to  which  this 
play  on  words  is  carried  in  the  hymns  addressed  to  Savitri. 

Derivatives  from  the  same  root  are,  as  we  have  already  seen,  also 
applied  to  Surya,  as  prasmita  and  prasutah,  in  E. V.  vii.  63,  2  and  4 ; 
and  apasuva  in  x.  37,  4;  to  Indra  {har^ha-prasutah^  iii,  30,  12);  to 
Yaruna  {pa/rasma,  ii.  28,  9) ;  and  to  Mitra,  Aryaman,  Savitri,  and 
Bhaga  {smati,  vii.  66,  4).  In  vii.  77,  1,  Ushas  (the  Dawn)  is  said  to 
rouse  {prasuvantl)  all  living  creatures  into  motion.  In  viii.  18,  1,  the 
impulse,  vivifying  power,  or  favouring  aid  {savimani)  of  the  Adityas  is 
referred  to. 

(3)  Savitri,  sometimes  distinguished  from,  sometimes  identified  with, 

Surya. 

Savitri  is  sometimes  expressly  distinguished  from  Surya.    Thus  he  is 

said  in  i.  35,  9,  to  approach,  or  (according  to  Prof.  Benfey's  rendering)  to 

28'  In  i.  164,  26,  and  ix.  67,  25,  particularly  in  the  latter  passage,  soma  may  mean 
a  libation  o^soma.    Compare  irahmaamaih  in  is,  67,  24. 


SOMETIMES  IBENTIFIED  "WITH,  STJETA.  169 

bring  Suiya  {veti  sixryam) ;  '"^  ini.  123,  3,  to  declare  men  sinless  towards 
Siirya^  {devo  no  attra  Savita  damundh  anagaso  vochati  Suryaya)  \  and  in 
V.  81,  4,  to  combine  with  the  rays  of  Surya  {uta  Suryasya  raimibhil), 
samuehyasi).  In  explanation  of  the  last  passage,  Sayana  remarks,  that 
before  his  rising  the  sun  is  called  Savitri,  and  from  his  rising  tiU  his 
setting  Surya  (udayat  purvabhavl  Scwita  \  udayastamaya/vmrttl  Suryah 
iti).  And  similarly  Tasta  says,  Nirukta  xii.  12  :  tasya  halo  yadd  dyaur 
apahatatamaska  aMrnwrasmir  Ihavati  |  "the  time  of  Savitri's  appearance 
js  when  darkness  has  been  removed,  and  the  rays  of  light  have  become 
diffused  over  the  sky."  If  so,  his  action  must  also  extend  to  a  later  period 
of  the  day,  as  in  vii.  66,  4,  he  is  prayed  along  with  Mitra  (the  god  of 
the  day)  and  Aryaman  and  Bhaga,  to  vivify  the  worshipper  after  the 
rising  of  the  sun  {yad  adya  sure  udite  anagdh  Mitro  Aryama  \  suvdti 
Scmitd  Bhagah).  Again,  in  x.  139,  1,  Savitri  is  termed  surya-rasmi, 
"  invested  with  the  rays  of  Surya  ;  "  and  in  the  8th  and  10th  verses 
of  vii.  35  (verse  8 :  ^am  nah  Suryah,  wuohdkshah  \  10 :  &am  no  devah 
Bmiitd  trdyamdnah),  as  well  as  in  x.  181,  3  {Dhdtur  dyutdndt  Savitu^  aha 
Vishnor  a  Surydd  abharan  gharmam  ete),  the  two  gods  are  separately 
mentioned,  unless  we  are  to  suppose  (but  apparently  without  reason) 
that  in  the  last  passage  the  writer  means  to  identify  all  the  four  gods 
who  are  there  named,  viz.  Dhatri,  Savitri,  Vishnu,  and  Siirya.  In 
i.  157,  1  also,  where  several  gods  are  mentioned  besides  Surya  and 
Savitri,  the  last  two  appear  to  be  distinguished :  ahodhi  Agni/r  jmah 
vdeti  Suryo  vi  Ushdi  ohandrd  mahi  dvo  aroJiishd  \  a/yukshdtdm  Asvind 
ydtave  ratham  prdsdvid  devah  Savitd  jagat  prithak  \  "  Agni  has  awoke 
from  the  earth  :  Surya  rises  ;  the  great  and  bright  Ushas  has  dawned 
with  her  radiance  ;  the  Asvins  have  yoked  their  car  to  go  ;  Savitri  has 
vivified  each  moving  creature."  In  other  texts,  however,  the  two 
names  appear  to  be  employed  indiscriminately  to  denote  the  same 
deity,  viz.  in  iv.  14,  2  [urdhvam  Icetum,  Savitd  devo  asrej  jyotir  vihasmai 
ihiwandya  krinvan  \  a  apralf  dydvd-prithivl  anta/riksham  vi  Suryo  rai- 


^^  Sayana  remarks  here  that,  though  the  godhead  of  Savitri  and  Surya  is  iden- 
tical, they  may  yet,  from  their  representing  different  forms,'  he  spoken  of  as  respec- 
tively approaching  and  approached  [yad/yapi  a<witri-suryayor  eMdevatatvam  tathapi 
murtti-b/wdena  gantri-gantmya-bhavah). 

264  As  in  another  place  (x.  12,  8),  he  is  supplicated,  along  with  Mitra  and  Aditi,  to 
declare  the  worshippers  sinless  towards  Varuna. 


170  SAVITBI  AND  OTHER  DEITIES. 

mihhii  cheMtdnah) ;  x.  158,  I  {Suryo  no  divas  pdtu  .  .  .  |  2.  Josha 
Savitah  .  .  .  |  3.  Chahhur  no  devah  Savita  .  .  .  |  5.  Smandriiam  tva 
vayam  prati  pa^yema  Surya).  In  i.  35,  7,  also  the  name  Surya  may- 
be employed  as  synonymous  with  Savitri,  which  is  found  in  the  other 
verses  of  the  hymn,  although,  as  we  have  already  seen,  the  two  deities 
appear  to  be  distinguished  in  verse  9.  See  also  i.  124,  1 ;  and  vii.  63, 
1-4  (when  the  word  Surya  is  used  in  verses  1,  2,  and  3,  and  Savitri  in 
verse  4,  and  where  the  functions  expressed  by  the  derivatives  of  the 
root  su,  which,  as  we  have  seen,  are  most  generally  assigned  to  Savitri, 
are  in  verses  2  and  4  predicated  of  Surya). 

In  V.  81,  4  and  5  {uta  Mitro  hhavasi  deva  dharmahhih  \  5.  Zfta  Pushd 
hhmiasi  deva  yamabhih),  Savitri  is  identified  with  Mitra  and  Pushan, 
or  is,  at  least,  described  as  fulfilling  the  proper  function  of  those  gods. 
And  similarly  in  v.  82,  1,  3,  and  vii.  38,  1,  6  (unless  with  Prof.  Eoth, 
s.v.  we  take  Bhaga  as  a  simple  epithet),  Savitri  seems  to  be  identified 
with  the  god  of  that  name.  On  the  other  hand,  he  is  clearly  distin- 
guished from  these  and  other  deities,  in  such  texts  as  iii.  54,  11,  12; 
vi.  49,  14;  vi.  50,  1,  13;  viii.  18,  3;  viii.  91,  6;  x.  139,  1. 

The  word  Savitri  is  not  always  a  proper  name ;  but  is  sometimes 
used  as  an  epithet.  Thus  in  ii.  30,  1,  it  seems  to  express  an  attribute 
of  Indra;  and  in  iii.  55,  19,  and  x.  10,  5  {devas  Tvashtd  savita  vii- 
va/rnpaK),  to  be,  as  well  as  visvarupa,  an  epithet  of  Tvashtri.  As 
applied  to  this  god,  it  probably  means  rather  the  generator,  than  the 
vivifier. 


171 


SECTIOJS"   XII. 

PtrSHAN. 

I  commence  my  description  of  this  deity  by  translating  the  account 
given  of  him  in  the  Sanskrit  and  German  Lexicon  of  Messrs.  Bothlingk 
and  Eoth,  vol.  iv.  p.  854  f. 

(1)  Functions  and  epithets  of  Pushan. 

"Pushan  is  a  protector  and  multiplier  of  cattle  {paitipd)  and  of 
human  possessions  in  general  {pushtinthhara,  E.V.  vi.  3,  7).  As  a 
cowherd  he  carries  an  ox-goad  (vi.  53,  9 ;  vi.  68,  2)  and  he  is  drawn 
by  goats  {afdsva).  In  character  he  is  a  solar  deity,"^'  beholds  the 
entire  universe,  and  is  a  guide  on  roads  and  journies  (i.  42,  1 ;  x.  17, 
6 ;  X.  59,  7 ;  x.  86,  26 ;  A.V.  vi.  73,  3),  and  to  the  other  world  {pa- 
thaspati,  prapathya  (x.  17,  3,  5 ;  A.V.  xvi.  9,  2 ;  xviii.  2,  53).  He  is 
called  the  lover  of  his  sister  Surya  (vi.  55,  4,  6;  vi.  58,  4).  He  aids 
in  the  revolutions  of  day  and  night  (i.  23,  13-15) ;  and  shares  with 
Soma  the  guardianship  of  living  creatures  {Soma-pwhamu,  ii.  40,  1  ff.). 
He  is  invoked  along  with  the  most  various  deities,  but  most  frequently 
with  Indra  {JM/ra-ipushamu,  i.  162,  2;  vii.  35,,  1),  and  Bhaga  (iv.  30, 
24  ;  V.  41,  4 ;  v.  46,  2  ;  x.  125,  2.  Compare  S'atapatha  Brahmana  xi. 
4,  3,  3 ;  Eaty.  S'r.  v.  13,  1).  His  most  remarkable  epithets,  in  ad- 
dition to  those  above  specified,  are  aghrini,  kapa/rdin,  harambhad,  dasra, 
dasma,  dasmavarehas,  nwra^amsa  (R.V.  i.  106,  4;  x.  64,  3)  vimucho 
napdt,  vimoehana.  Compare  especially  the  hymns  E.V.  vi.  63-58 ; 
X.  26."  The  reader  can  also  consult  the  remarks  on  this  god  given  in 
the  Introductions  to  Professor  Wilson's  translation  of  the  Eig-veda, 
vol.  i.  p.  XXXV.  and  vol.  iii.  p.  xii. 

The  hymns  which  are  exclusively  devoted  to  the  celebration  of 

265  In  Xir.  TJi.  9,  where  E.V.  x.  17, 3,  is  quoted,  Taska  explains  the  words  bhtwcm- 
asya  gopah  there  applied  to  Pushan,  by  sarveaham  Ihutcmam  gopayitd  adityalf  |  "  the 
sun,  the  preserver  of  aU  beings." 


172  FUNCTIONS  AND  EPITHETS  OF  PUSHAN. 

Pushan  are  i.  42 ;  i.  138  ;  vi.  53-56  ;  vi.  58  ;  and  x.  26.  In 
ii.  40,  he  is  invoked  along  with  Soma,  and  in  vi.  57,  in  company 
with  Indra.  The  single  or  detached  verses  of  other  hymns  in  which 
he  is  mentioned  are  mimerous.  In  addition  to  the  epithets  above 
specified  by  Professor  Koth,  I  note  the  following,  and  others  wiU 
be  found,  in  the  hymns  which  are  translated  below :  agoihya,  not 
to  be  hidden  (x.  64,  3) ;  anwrvwn,  resistless  (vi.  48,  15) ;  abhywr- 
dhayajvan,  bringing  blessings  (vi.  50,  6);'**  asvra,  divine  (v.  51,  11); 
hhayadvira,  ruler  of  heroes  (i.  106,  4);  tavyas,  strong,  and  twra, 
vigorous  (v.  43,  9);  tmyata,  of  powerful  nature  (i.  138,  1) ;  purmdM, 
wise  (ii.  31,  4) ;  puruvasu,  abounding  in  wealth  (viii.  4,  15) ;  man- 
tumat,  vnse  in  counsel  (i.  42,  5) ;  mamhishtha,  most  bountiful  (viii.  4, 
18);  mayolhu,  beneficent  (i.  138,  2);  vajin,  bestower  of  food  (i.  106, 
4) ;  ^ahra,  powerful,  (viii,  4,  15) ;  viSvadevya,  distinguished  by  all 
divine  attributes  (x.  92,  13);  viivasauhhaga,  bestowing  all  blessings 
(i.  42,  6)  ;  m&vaveias,  knowing  all  things  (i.  89,  6)  ;  hiranya/oaSi- 
mattama,  skilful  wielder  of  a  golden  speai  (i.  42,  6) ;  and  Soma  is  said 
to  be  like  Pushan  an  impeller  of  the  soul  {dhijcmana).  He  is  the  lord 
of  all  things  moving  and  stationary,  the  inspirer  of  the  soul,  an  un- 
concjuerable  protector  and  defender,  and  is  besought  to  give  increase  of 
wealth,  i.  89,  5  {tam  Uanam  jagatas  tastushas  patim  dMyamjinvam 
mase  hum'ahe  vayam  \  Pusha  no  yathd  vedasam  asad  vridhe  rakshitd 
payw  adabdhah  svastaye  [  compare  ii.  1,  6).  He  is  besought  to  main- 
tain his  friendship  steadfast  like  a  skin  without  holes  and  well  filled 
with  curds ;  he  is  declared  to  transcend  mortals,  and  to  be  equal  to 
the  gods,  in  glory ;  and  is  prayed  to  protect  his  servants  in  battle  and 
to  defend  them  as  of  old,  vi.  48,  18  {driter  iva  te  avrikam  astu  sakhyam  \ 
achhidrasya  dadhmoataJj,  svpurnasya  dadhanvatalj,  \  19.  Paro  hi  mwrtyair 
mi  samo  d^vair  uta  sriya  \  ahhi  hhyah  Pushan  pritanasu  nas  tvam  mm 
nunam  yatha  pwra).  He  is  said  to  regard,  and  to  see  clearly  and  at 
once,  all  creatures,  iii.  62,  9  {yo  visvd  abhi  vipakyati  hhv/oand  gam  cha 
pa&yati  \  sa  nah  Pushd  'vita,  ihmat),  and  in  x.   139,  1,  is  associated 

266  "  Spenden  entgegenbringend ' '  (Roth) .  Taska  (Nir.  yi.  6)  explain  s  the  compound 
as  ahhyardhayan  yajati,  "one  who  increasing,  worsMps,"  and  Sayana  expands  this 
into  "  prospering  his  worshippers "  [stotfin  abhya/rdhaycm  samriddhan  liwrvcm  yo 
yajati  dhcmena  pujayati  tadris'ah) ;  Both,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  T5, 
inclines  to  the  same  interpretation. 


FUNCTIONS  AND  EPITHETS  OF  PUSHAN.  173 

with  Somitri  and  is  described  as  moving  onward  under  Ms  impulse^  and 
as.  knowing  and  perceiving  all  creature*,  a  guardian  {tasya  Pusha  pra- 
save  yati  vidvdn  sampaiyan  viha  hhwoandni  gopdh).  He  is  connected 
with  the  marriage  ceremonial  in  x.  85,  26  and  37,  being  besought  to 
take  the  bride's  hand  and  lead  her  away  (verse  26.  Pusha  tva  ito  na- 
yatu  hadagrihya),  and  to  bless  her  in  her  conjugal  relation  (3t.  tarn, 
Pushan  iwatamam  a  wayasva) ;  ^"  and  in  another  place  he  is  prayed  to 
give  his  worshippers  their  share  of  damsels,  ix.  67,  1 0  [avitd  no  aj'ds- 
vah  Pusha  ydmmi  ydmani  d  bhahhad  kanydsu  nah).  According  to  Pro- 
fessor Eoth  (as  quoted  above)  Pushan  is  not  only  the  tutelary  god  of 
travellers,  but  also,  like  Savitri  and  Agni,  and  the  Greek  Hermes,  a 
i^wYOTTO/iTTO?,  who  couducts  departed  spirits  on  their  way  to  the  other 
world,  and  in  proof  of  this,  as  we  have  seefi,  he  refers  to  R.V.  x.  17,  3, 
5,  and  two  passages  from  the  A.V.  These  texts  are  as  follows  :  K.V. 
X.  17,  3  ff.  (verses  which,  as  I  learn  from  Professor  M.  Miiller's 
article  on  the  funeral  ceremonies  of  the  Brahmans,'^*  p.  xi.  ff.,  are 
directed  to  be  recited  during  the  cremation  of  the  body) :  Pushd  tvd 
itaS  ehydvayatu  pra  vidvdn  anashtapaswr  hhwoanasya  gopak  \  sa  tvd 
etebhyah    pari  dadat  pitrihhyo  Agnir   devehhyah    suvidatriyehhyah   | 

4.  Ayitr  visvdyuh  pa/ri  pdsati  tvd  Pushd  tvd  pdtu  prapathe  purastdt,  \ 
yatrdsate  sukrito  yatra  te  yayus   tatra   tvd   devah   Savitd  dadhdtu   \ 

5.  Pushd  imdh  asdh  anu  veda  sarvdh  so  asmdn  abhayatamena  neshat  \ 
svastiddh  dghrinih  sarvaviro  aprayuchhan  pur  ah  etu  prajdnan  |  6. 
Prapathe  pathdm  ajanishta  Pushd  prapathe  divah  prapathe  prithi- 
vydh  I  uhhe  abhi  priyatame  sadasthe  d  cha  pard  eha  charati  praja/nan  \ 
"  3.  May  Pushan  convey  thee  away  hence,  the  wise,  the  preserver 
of  the  world,  who  loses  none  of  his  cattle ;  may  he  deliver  thee  to 
these  fathers ;  and  may  Agni  (entrust  thee)  to  the  gracious  gods.  4. 
May  life,  full  of  vitality,  protect  thee :  May  Pushan  convey  thee  onward 
on  thy  distant  road ;  May  Savitri  place  thee  where  the  righteous  abide, 
in  the  place  whither  they  have  gone.  5.  Pushan  knows  aU  these 
regions :  may  he  conduct  us  in  perfect  security ;  blessing,  glowing,  all- 
heroic,  may  he  go  before  us,  watchful  and  understanding.  6.  Pushan 
was  born  to  move  on  distant  paths,  on  the  far  road  of  heaven  and  the 
far  road  of  earth.    He  goes  to  and  returns  from  both  the  beloved  abodes." 

28'  See  "Weter's  Ind.  Stud.  v.  186,  and  190. 

268  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vol.  ix.,  at  the  end. 


174  HYMNS  ADDEESSED  TO  PTJSHAN. 

A.V.  xvi.  9,  2.  Tad  Agnir  aha  tad  u  Somah  aha  Pushd  ma  dhat 
sukritasya  hie  \  "  Agni  says,  and  Soma  says,  'may  Pushan  place  me 
in  the  world  of  righteousness.'  " 

A.V.  xviii,  2,  53.  Agnishoma  pathihritd  syonafh  devebJvyo  ratnarh  da- 
dhathw  vi  lohm,  \  upa  preshyatam  Pushanam  yo  vahati  cyayanaih  pathi- 
Ihia  tattra  gaehhatam  |  "  Agni  and  Soma,  makers  of  paths,  ye  have 
prepared  for  the  gods,  as  a  treasure,  a  heautiful  wqrld ;  go  thither  and 
send  hither  to  us  Pushan,  who  shaU  conduct  us  by  direct  roads."  ^°' 

In  E.V.  i.  23, 13  f.  the  glowing  Pushan  is  prayed  to  bring  hither,  like 
a  lost  beast,  the  supporter  of  the  sky,  who  is  surrounded  by  brilliant 
grass ; ''"'  and  is  said  to  have  found  the  king  so  designated,  who  had 
been  concealed  (a  Pushan  cMtrabarhisham  aghrine  dha/runam  divah 
aj'a  nashtam  yathd  paium  \  14.  Pusha  rajanam  dghrinir  apagulham 
guha  hitam  |  avindach  chitralarhisham). 

In  one  passage,  i.  23,  8,  the  other  gods  are  designated  by  the  appel- 
lation of  pusharaU,  "bestowers  of  Pushan's  gifts,"  or  "having  Pushan 
as  their  chief  giver." 

(2)  Symns  addressed  to  Pushan. 

'  I  shall  now  translate  some  of  the  hymns  addressed  to  Pushan,  from 
which  it  will  appear  that  the  character  of  this  god  is  not  very  distinctly 
defined ;  and  that  it  is  difficult  to  declare  positively  what  province 
of  nature  or  of  physical  action  he  is  designed  to  represent,  as  is  at 
once  manifest  in  the  case  of  Dyaus,  Prithivi,  Agni,  Indra,  Parjanya, 
and  Surya : 

i.  42,  1.  Sam  Pushmn  adhvanas  tira  vi  arhho  vimucho  napat  \  sakshva 
deva  pra  nas  pwrah  \  2.  Yo  nah  Pushann  agho  vriko  duUevah  ddideiati  [ 
apa  sma  tvam  patho  j'ahi  \  3.  Apa  tyam  paripanthinam  mmMvdnam 
hwahhitam  \  duram  adhi  sruter  afa  \  4.  Ibam  tasya  dvaydvino  aghakam- 
sasya  hasya  chit  \  pada  'bhi  tishtha  tapushim  \  5.  A  tat  te  dasra  man- 
twmah  Pushann  avo  vrinimahe  \  yena  pitrin  achodayah  \    6.  Adha  no 

269  Prof.  Both,  s.v.  takes  ajayanaih  as  =  anjoyanaih. 

210  Professor Eotti  understands  this  epithet  «Ai<raJa?-Ai«  to  mean  "having  glittering 
straw,"  or  "  having  around  him  straw  in  the  form  of  jewels,"  and  applies  it  to  the 
moon.  Prof.  Benfey,  following  Sayana,  considers  that  Soma  is  the  deity  intended, 
and  renders  the  word  cMtraiarhis  by  "  reposing  on  a  rich  covering."  The  reference 
seems  obscure. 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSHAN.  175 

viivasauhhaga  hiranyavaiimattama  \  dhanani  sushand  IcridM  \  7.  Ati 
nah  saichato  naya  mga  nah  supathd  krinu  \  Pushann  iha  hratum  vidah  \ 
8.  Ahhi  swyavasam  naya  na  nmajvaro  adhvane  \  Pushann  .  .  .  |  9.  S'ag- 
dhi  purdhi  pra  yamsi  oha  siiiM  prdsi  udaram  \  Pushann  ...  |  10.  Ufa 
Pushanam  methdmasi  suktair  abhi  grinlmasi  \  vasuni  dasmam  Imahe  \ 
"1.  Conduct  us,  Puahan,  over  our  road  ;  remove  distress,  son  of  the  de- 
liverer ; '"  go  on  before  us.  2.  Smite  away  from  our  path  the  destruc- 
tive and  injurious  wolf  which  seeks  after  us.  3.  Drive  away  from  our 
path  the  waylayer,  the  thief,  the  robber.  4.  Tread  with  thy  foot  upon 
the  burning  weapon  of  that  deceitful  wretch,  whosoever  he  be.  5.  0 
wonder-working  and  wise  Pushan,  we  desire  that  help  of  thine  where- 
with thou  did  favour  our  fathers.  6.  0  god,  who  bringest  all  bless- 
ings, and  art  distinguished  by  thy  golden  spear,  make  wealth  easy  of 
acquisition.  7.  Convey  us  past  our  opponents ;  make  our  paths  easy 
to  traverse  ;  gain  strength  for  us  here.  8.  Lead  us  over  a  country  of 
rich  pastures  ;  let  no  new  trouble  (beset  our)  path.  9.  Bestow,  satiate, 
grant,  stimulate  us,  fill  our  beUy.  10.  We  do  not  reproach  Pushan, 
we  praise  him  with  hymns ;  we  seek  riches  from  the  wonder-working 
god." »" 

The  next  hymn  alludes  at  the  beginning  to  Pushan  in  his  character 
of  tutelary  god  of  travellers  (comp.  vi.  49,  8 ;  x.  17,  3,  6 ;  x.  59,  7 ; 
X.  92,  13) ;  but  it  is  chiefly  occupied  with  the  poet's  aspirations  after 
a  liberal  patron,  and  with  attempts  to  inflame  the  god's  indignation 
against  the  niggards  with  whom  he  considered  himself  to  be  surrounded. 

271  Vimucho  napat.  Professor  Benfey  follows  Sayana  in  loco  in  taking  this  to 
mean  "  offspring  of  the  cloud "  [jala-vimoehaka-hetor  meghasya  puttra).  The 
Indian  commentator,  however,  assigns  another  sense  to  the  phrase  in  t.  65,  1,  where 
it  recurs,  and  where  he  explains  it  as  "  the  son  of  Prajapati,  who  at  the  creation 
sends  forth  from  himself  all  creatures  "  {^vimwiohati  srishti-kale  svasakasat  sarvah 
prajah  visrijati  iti  vimuk  Frajapatih  |  tasya  puttra).  In  E.V.  viii.  4,  15  f.  Pushan 
is  called  vimochana,  the  "deliverer,"  which  Sayana  interprets  "  deliverer  from  sin" 
papad  vimoehayitah).  Perhaps  vimucho  napat  means  the  same  thing.  Compare 
the  words  vi  te  rmmehantam  virmteho  hi  santi,  A.V.  vii.  112,  3;  and  s'avaso  napat, 
and  the  other  similar  phrases  quoted  above  in  p.  62.  In  preparing  my  version  of  this 
hymn  I  have  had  the  aid  of  Benfey,  as  well  as  of  Sayana. 

''2  Professor  Benfey  refers  here  to  a  preceding  note  of  his  own  on  E.V.  i.  41,  8,  the 
sense  of  which  is  as  follows :  "I  believe  that  this  refers  to  a  practice  which  we  still  find 
among  barbarous,  and  even  among  partially  civilized,  races,  of  believing  that  they 
can  compel  their  gods,  by  insults,  and  by  blows  inflicted  on  their  images,  to  grant 
their  desires,  or  if  this  be  not  accomplished,  of  thinking  that  they  thereby  take  their 
revenge." 


176  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSHAN. 

vi.  53,  1.  Vayam  u  too,  pafhas  pate  ratham  na  vajasataye  \  dhiye 
Pushann  ayujmahi  I  2.  AIM  no  na/ryam  vasu  vtram  prayata-dakshinam  | 
vamam  grihapatvm  nay  a  \  3.  Aditsantam  ehid  aghrine  Pushan  ddnaya 
chodaya  |  panei  chid  vi  mrada  manah  I  4.  Vi  patho  vajasdtaye  ehinuhi 
vi  mridho  jahi  sadhantam  ugra  no  dhiyaj),  \  5.  Pari  trifidhi  paninam 
araya  hridaya  Tcwoe  \  athem  asmabhyafh  randhaya  \  6.  Vi  Pushann  araya 
tuda  paner  ichha  hridi  priyam  \  athem  asmahhyam  randhaya  \  7.  Arikha 
kikira  krinupamnam  hridaya  kame  \  athem  ...  |  8.  Yum  Pushan  hrah- 
maehod/inim  aram  bihharshi  aghrine  \  taya  samasya  hridayam  a  rikha 
kikira  krinu  \  9.  Yd  te  ashtrd  goopaid  aghrine  pa&mddhani  \  tasyds  te 
sumnam  Imahe  \  10.  Uta  no  goshanim  dhiyam  ahasdm,  vdjasdm  uta  | 
nrivat  krinuhi  vUaye  \ 

"  1.  Push.an,  we  have  attached  thee,  lord  of  roads,  to  our  hymn,  as 
a  chariot  (is  yoked)  for  the  acquisition  of  food.  2.  Bring  to  us  wealth 
suitable  for  men,  and  a  manly  estimable  householder,  who  shall  bestow 
on  us  gifts.  3.  Impel  to  liberality,  o  glowing  Pushan,  even  the  man 
who  would  fain  bestow  nothing :  soften  the  soul  even  of  the  niggard. 
4.  Open  up  paths  by  which  we  may  obtain  food ;  slay  our  enemies ; 
let  our  designs  succeed,  o  glorious  god.  5.  0  wise  god,  pierce  the 
hearts  of  the  niggards  with  an  awl;  and  then  make  them  subject  to  us. 
6.  Pierce  them  with  an  awl,  o  Pushan ;  seek  (for  us)  that  which  is 
dear  to  the  niggard's  heart ;  and  then  make  them  subject  to  us.  7. 
Penetrate  and  tear  the  hearts  of  the  niggards,  o  wise  god,  and  then 
subject  them  to  us.  8.  "With  that  prayer-stimulating  goad  which  thou 
carriest,  glowing  Pushan,  penetrate  and  tear  the  heart  of  every  such 
man.  9.  From  that  goad  of  thine,  which  is  furnished  with  leathern 
thongs,''"  and  guides  cattle,  we  seek  for  prosperity.  10.  Grant  that 
our  hymn  may  produce  for  us  cattle,  horses,  food,  for  our  enjoyment 
abundantly." 

vi.  54,  1.  Sam  Pushan  vidusha  nay  a  yo  anj'asd  'nuidsati  |  yah  eva 
idam  iti  hrawat  \  2.  Sam  u  Pushnd  gamemahi  yo  grihdn  ahhisdsati  |  ime 
eva  iti  eha  hravat  |  3.  PushnaS  chakram  na  rishyati  na  koko  ava  padyate  \ 
no  asya  vyathate  pavih  \  4.  Yo  asmai  havisha  ^vidhat  na  tarn  Pushd  'pi 
mrisJi/yate  \  prathamo  vindate  vasu  \  5.  Pushd  gah  anu  etu  nah  Pushd 
rakshatu  arvatah  \  Pushd  vdjam  sanotu  nah  \   6.  Pushann  anu  pra  gdh 

273  See  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v.  goopasa. 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PTTSHAN.  177 

iM  yajamanasya  sumatah  \  asmakam  stuvatam  uta'  \  7.  Mahir  nesat 
m&lcX'fn  rishat  maJclm  sam  idri  kevate  |  atha  arishtabhir  a  gahi  \  8. 
S'rinvantam  Pusham'm  vayam  iryam  anashta-veSasam  \  Uanam  rdyah 
tmahe  \  9.  Pushan  tma  vrate  vayam  na  rishyema  hadachana  \  stotaras  te 
iha  smasi  \  10.  Pari  Pus?td  parastad  hastam  dadhatu  dakshimm  \  punar 
no  nashtam  dj'atu  \ 

"  1.  May  we,  o  Pustan,  meet  with  a  wise  man  who  shall  straightway 
direct  us,  and  say  '  so  it  is.""*  2.  May  we  meet  with  Pushan,""  who 
shall  point  out  a  house,  and  shall  say  '  it  is  this.'  3.  Pushan's  wheel  is 
not  shattered,  nor  does  its  hox  fall,  nor  is  its  rim  broken.  4.  Pushan  is 
not  hostile  to  the  man  who  offers  him  an  oblation ;  that  man  is  the  first  to 
obtain  wealth.  5.  May  Pushan  follow  our  kine;  may  he  protect  our 
horses ;  may  he  give  us  food.  6.  Pushan,  follow  the  kine  of  the  wor- 
shipper who  offers  soma-libations,  and  of  us  when  we  do  the  same.  7. 
Let  nothing  be  lost,  or  injured,  or  fall  into  a  pit ;  but  come  to  us  with 
(the  cows)  all  safe.  8.  "We  seek  after  Pushan  who  hears  us,  the  alert, 
who  never  loses  property,  who  is  lord  of  wealth.  9.  Pushan,  may  we, 
through  thy  appointment,  never  fall  into  calamity;  we  are  here,  thy 
worshippers.  10.  May  Pushan  stretch  out  his  right  hand  far  and  wide, 
and  drive  hither  our  lost  property." 

Ad.  55,  1.  £M  vdfft  mmuolm  napdd  dghrlne  sam  saehdvahai  \  rathtr 
ritasya  no  hhava  \  2.  Rathitamafh  haparddinam  lidnam  rddhaso  mahah  \ 
rdyah  sakhdyam  imahe  \  3.  Rdyo  dhdrd  'si  dghrine  vasoh  rdiir  ajdiva  | 
dhtvato  dhwafo  saJcha  |  4.  Pushanam  nu  ajasvam  upa  stoshdma  vdjinam  \ 
svasur  yo  j'drah  uckyate  \  5,  Mdtw  didhishum  abravam  svasur  jdrah 
irinotu  nah  \  bhrdtd  Indrasya  sakhd  mama  \  6.  A  ajdsah  Pushanam  rathe 
nihimhhds  te  janakriyam  |  devam  vahantu  hibhratah  \ 

"1.  Come  hither,  glowing  god,  the  deliverer,  may  we  meet;  he  the 
charioteer  of  our  rite.  2.  "We  seek  riches  from  thee,  the  most  skilful 
of  charioteers,  the  god  with  braided  hair,  the  lord  of  great  wealth,  and 
our  friend.  3.  Thou  art  a  stream  of  opulence,  a  heap  of  riches,  o  glow- 
ing deity,  drawn  by  goats,  and  the  friend  of  every  devout  contemplator. 

*'*  Sayana  says  that  this  verse  is  to  be  muttered  by  a  man  seeking  for  lost  property 
(nashta-dhanam  anvichhata  etaj  japyamC),  and  refers  to  Grihya  Sutras,  iii.  9.  He 
understands  the  Trise  man  of  one  who  shall  point  out  the  mode  of  recovering  such 
property. 

"'=  See  Prof.  "Wilson's  note  in  loco.  Sayana  explains :  "  May  we  by  [the  favour 
of]  Pushan  meet  with  a  man  who  shall  shew  us  the  house  in  which  our  lost  cattle  are.' 

12 


178  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PtTSHAN. 

4.  Let  us  praise  Pushan,  the  god  drawn  by  goats,  the  giver  of  food, 
who  is  called  the  lover  of  his  Bister.''^  5.  I  address  the  husband  of  his 
mother ;  *"  may  he  hear  us,  the  lover  of  his  sister,  the  brother  of  Indra, 
and  my  friend.  6.  May  the  surefooted™  goats,  supporting  Pushan,  the 
god  who  visits  mankind,  bring  him  hither  upon  his  chariot." 

vi.  56,  1.  Yah  enam  adide^ati  " iaramihad"  iti  JPushanam  |  na  tena 
devah  adiie  \  2.  Uta  gha  sa  rathltamah  salchya  satpatir  yujd  |  Indro 
vritrani  jighnate  \  3  (Nir.  ii.  6).  JJta  adah  parushe  gmi  surai  ehakram 
hiranyayam  \  ni  airayad  rathltamah  \  4.  Yad  adya  tvd  purushtuta  ira- 
vama  dasra  mantumah  |  tat  su  no  mamna  sadhaya  |  5.  Imarh  eha  no 
gaveshamm  sataye  sishadho  ganam  \  arat  Pushann  asi  srutah  |  G.  A  te 
svastim  imaha  areagham  vpavasum  \  adya  cha  sarvatataye  svai-  eha  sarva- 


"  1.  By  him  who  designates  Pushan  by  saying  'this  is  the  eater  of 
meal  and  butter,'  the  god  cannot  be  described.  2.  Indra  too,  the  lord 
of  the  good,  the  most  skilful  of  charioteers,  seeks  to  slay  his  enemies  in 
company  with  his  friend.  3.  And  this  most  skilful  charioteer  drove 
that  golden  wheel  of  the  sun  through  the  speckled  cloud.*"  4.  Accom- 
plish for  us,  0  wonder-working  and  wise  deity,  that  desire  which  we 
shall  address  to  thee  to-day.  5.  And  direct  this  exploring  band  of  ours 
to  the  attainment  of  their  object :  for,  Pushan,  thou  are  renowned  afar. 
6.  We  seek  thy  blessing,  which  drives  away  calamity,  and  brings 
opulence  near,  for  full  prosperity  to-day,  and  for  full  prosperity  to- 
morrow." 

vi.  57,  1.  Indra  nu  Pushand  ^''  vayam  sakhydya  smstaye  hiwema  vdj'a- 
sdtaye  \  2.  Somam  any  ah  updsadat  pdtave  chamvoh  sutam  |  karamhMm'^^ 

2V6  TTshas,  according  to  Sayana ;  and  Surya,  according  to  Prof.  Eoth.    See  the  last 

verse  of  vi.  58,  below. 

'"  Sayana  renders  matuh  by  nirmatryah  ratreh,  "  the  coustructress,  Night." 

"8  Eoth,  «.».  says  ms'rimiha  perhaps  means  "  sicher  auftretend;  "  "Wilson  renders 

"harnessed;  "  Sayana  nisrathya  sambadhya  hartarah.     All  seems  guess  work. 

279  Prof.  Eoth  translates  this  verse  as  follows  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta, 
p.  19  :  "  Er  hat  dort  durch  den  krausen  "Wolkenzug  der  Sonne  goldenes  Ead  hin- 
durchgelenkt,  der  trefliche  Fuhrmann  (Puschan),  "  He  has  guided  the  golden  wheel 
of  the  sun  through  the  curled  train  of  clouds,  the  excellent  driver  (Pushan)."  In  his 
Lexicon  he  renders  the  -woxA parimha  by  "  variegated,"  etc. 

280  Compare  iii.  57,  2,  and  vi.  17,  11,  where  Pushan  and  Vishnu  are  said  to  have 
purified  three  bowls  of  Soma  for  Indra  (PmsAu  Vishnm  trinisa  raihsi  dhavan  vritra- 
hanam  madiram  ams'um  asmai). 

281  iii.  62  7. 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PTJSHAN.  179 

any  ah  ichhati  \  3.  Ajah  anyasya  vahnayo  Jiari  anyasya  sambhrita  j 
t&bhyam  vrittrdni  jighnate  \  4.  Yad  Tnd/ro  anayad  rito  mahlr  apo  vri- 
shantamah  |  tatra  Pusha  'hhavat  saehd  |  5.  Tdm  Pushnah  sumatim 
vaydm  vrikshasya  pra  vayam  iva  \  Indrasya  eha  a  rabh&mahe  \  6.  Ut 
Pushanam  yuvamahe  alMSun  iva  sarathih  \  mahyai  Indrafh  svastaye  \ 

"  1.  Let  us  invoke  India  and  Pushan  to  be  our  friends,  to  bless  us 
and  to  grant  us  food.  2.  Of  these  two  gods,  the  one  (Indra)  comes  to 
drink  the  soma  poured  out  from  the  ladles,  and  the  other  (Pushan) 
desires  meal  and  butter.  3.  Goats  convey  the  one,  and  two  harnessed 
brown  horses  the  other  :  borne  by  them  he  seeks  to  slay  his  enemies. 
4.  When  the  most  vigorous  Indra  brought  the  great  flowing  waters, 
Pushan  was  there  with  him.  5.  "We  lay  hold  of  that  goodwill  of 
Pushan  and  of  Indra,  as  we  seize  the  branch  of  a  tree.  6.  We  stir  up 
Pushan  and  Indra  to  bring  us  great  prosperity,  as  a  charioteer  shakes 
his  reins." 

vi.  58,  1  (=  S.V.  i.  75).  S'uJcram  te  anyad  yajatam  te  anyad  vishurupe 
ahani  dyau/r  ivasi  \  visvah  hi  mayah  a/casi  svadhavo  bhadrd  te  Pushann 
iha  rdtir  astu  \  2.  Ajasvah  pasvpdh  vajapastyo  dhiyamjinvo  hhwvane 
viive  arpitah  \  ashtrdm  Puslid  kithirdm,  udvarivrijat  sanchakshdno  bhu- 
vand  devah  lyate  \  3.  Tds  te  Pushan  navo  antah  samudre  hiranyaylr 
antarihshe  eharanti  |  tdbhir  ydsi  duty  am  suryasya  ledmena  hrita  "**  irewah 
iehhamdnah  \  4.  Pmhd  subandhwr  dimah  d  prithivydh  ilaspatir  magha/od 
dasmavarehd^  |  yam  devdso  adaduh  Surydyai  kdmena  Icritam  tavasafh 
svancham  | 

"1.  One  of  thine  (appearances)  is  bright,  the  other  is  venerable ;  thy 
two  periods  are  diverse ;  thou  art  like  Dyaus :  for,  o  self-dependent 
god,  thou  exercisest  all  wondrous  powers.  0  Pushan,  may  thy  gifts 
be  beneficent.  2.  Borne  by  goats,  guardian  of  cattle,  lord  of  a  house 
overflowing  with  plenty,  an  inspirer  of  the  soul,  abiding  within  the 
whole  creation,  Pushan  has  grasped  his  relaxed  goad ;  the  god  moves 
onward  beholding  all  creatures.  3.  With  those  golden  ships  of  thine, 
which  sail  across  the  aerial  ocean,  thou  actest  as  the  messenger  of  the 
Sun,  desiring  food,  o  god,  subdued  by  love.  4.  Pushan  is  the  close 
associate  of  [or  the  bond  uniting  ?]  heaven  and  earth,  the  lord  of 
nourishment,  the  magnificent,  of  wondrous  lustre.  Him,  vigorous  and 
rapid,  subdued  by  love,  the  gods  gave  to  Surya." 

2*'  See  next  verse,  and  vi.  49,  8,  where  the  same  phrase  occurs. 


180  HYMNS  ADDEESSED  TO  PUSHAN. 

In  ii.  40,  Soma  and  Pushan  are  celebrated  conjointly  as  the  gene- 
rators of  wealth,  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  the  born  preservers  of  the 
■world,  and  as  made  by  the  gods  the  centre-point  of  immortality  {Soma- 
pushana  jancma  raylndm  j'anand  dwo  janana  prifhivyah  \  jdtau  visvasya 
hhwoanasya  gopau  devah  akrinvann  amritasya  nahMm,  verse  1) ;  they  hide 
the  hated  darkness  (imau  tamamsi  guhatdm  qfushthd,  ibid.  2) ;  they  impel 
the  chariot  with  seven  wheels  which  traverses  the  air,  but  is  not  aU- 
pervading,  which  revolves  in  all  directions,  is  yoked  by  the  mind,  and 
shines  with  seven  rays  {Somdpushana  rajaso  vimdnam  saptachahram 
ratham  misvaminvam  |  vishuvritam  manasd  yiyyamdnam  tarn  jimatho 
vrishand  panehwrasmim,  verse  3) ;  the  one  of  them  (Pushan)  is  said  to 
make  his  abode  in  the  heaven,  the  other  (Soma)  on  the  earth  and  in  the 
air  {divi  anyo  sadanam  chakre  mhchd  prithivydm  anyo  adhi  antarikahe, 
verse  4) ;  the  one  (Soma)  to  have  generated  all  creatures,  and  the  other 
(Pushan)  to  move  onward  beholding  the  universe  (viivdm  anyo  bhmand 
jajdna  viSvam  anyo  abhichakshdnah  eti,  verse  5). 

In  the  concluding  verse  of  E.V.  i.  138,  the  poet  tells  Pushan  that  he 
seeks  with  gentle  hymns  to  attract  his  attention,  and  that  he  does  not 
treat  the  god  with  haughtiness  or  contempt,  or  reject  his  friendship  (o  au 
tvd  vavritimahi  stomehhir  dasma  sddhubhih  \  na  Id  tvd  Pushann  atimanye 
aghrine  na  te  saihyam  apahnme). 

In  X.  26,  he  is  said  to  be  the  fulfill  er  of  prayers,  and  the  stimulator 
of  sages  {matlnam  eha  sddha/naih  viprdnafh.  cha  ddhavam,  verse  4) ;  to  be 
the  promoter '*'  of  sacrifices,  to  impel  the  horses  of  chariots,  to  be  a 
rishi  friendly  to  men,  and  a  protecting  friend  of  the  wise  man  {pratyar- 
dhi/r  yyndndm  asvahayo  rafhdndm  \  rishih  sa  yo  mamwhito  viprasya 
ya/Bayat-Bokhah,  verse  5),  the  unshaken  friend,  born  of  old,  of  every 
suppliant  {vihasya  mrthinah  sakhd  sanojdh  anapachyutah). 

'*'  Prof.  Eoth,  s.v.  thinks  the  word  pratyardhi,  which  occurs  also  In  x.  1,  5,  may 
mean  "  entitled  to  the  half  of,"  "  having  an  equal  share  in."  Compare  ahhy-ardha- 
yajvan  above,  p.  172,  and  note. 


181 


SECTION    XIII. 

USHAS. 

This  goddess,  who  corresponds  to  the  'Han;  (^olio  'Avcoi)  of  the 
Greeks,  and  to  the  Aurora  of  the  Latins,  is  a  favourite  object  of  cele- 
bration with  the  poets  of  the  Eig-veda,  and  the  hymns  addressed  to 
her  are  among  the  most  beautiful — if  not  the  most  beautiful — in  the 
entire  collection.  The  following  are  those  which  are  specially  dedi- 
cated to  her  honour,  viz.,  i.  48;  i.  49;  i.  92;  i.  113;  i.  123;  i.  124; 
iii.  61 ;  iv.  51 ;  iv.  52  ;  v.  79 ;  v.  80 ;  vi.  64  ;  vi.  65  ;  vii.  75-81  ; 
X.  172.   She  is  also  invoked  or  referred  to  in  numerous  detached  verses. 

To  give  an  idea  of  the  manner  in  which  TJshas  is  described  and  cele- 
brated, I  shaU.  quote  the  larger  portion  of  three  hymns,  of  which  the 
second  and  third  are  more  remarkable  than  the  first  (introducing  here 
and  there  some  parallel  passages  from  other  quarters),  and  I  shall 
afterwards  give  a  summary  of  the  principal  attributes  and  functions 
which  are  attributed  to  her. 

(1)  Three  hymns  to  Ushas. 

i.  48,  1.  Saha  vamena  nah  ZFsho  vi  uohha  duhitar  Divah  \  saha  Ayum- 
nena  hrihatd  nhhavwri  ray  a  devi  dasvati  )  2.  ASvavatir  gomatlr  visva- 
suviio  Ihuri  chymanta  vasta/oe  \  udiraya  prati  ma  sunritah  ushas  ehoda 
radho  maghonam  \  3.  Uvasa  ushah  uohhat  cha  nu  devl  jira  rathanam  \ 
ye  asyah,  aeha/raneshu  dadhrire  samudre  na  ira/vasymah  \  4.  Usho  ye  te 
yameshu  yury'ate  mano  danaya  surayah  \  attrdha  tat  Tcanvah  esham  kan- 
vatamo  noma  grindti  nrindm  \  5.  A  gha  yosheva  sunari  ushah  ydti  pra- 
IhvMJatl  \  jarayanti  vrijanam  pad/oad  lyate  ut  jpdtayati  paJcshinah  \  6.  Vi 
yd  sry'ati  samanam  vi  wrihindh  padwm  na  veti  odatl  \  vayo  nahis  te  pap- 
tivdmsah  dsate  vyushtau  vajinlvati  \  [i.  124,  12  =  vi.  64,  4.  Ut  te  vayai 
chid  vasater  apaptm  na/rak  cha  ye pitulhdjo  vyushtau  \  see  also  i.  48,  9]. 
i.  48,  7.  Esha  ayukta  pa/rdvatah  suryasyodayanad  adhi  \  iatam  rathebhih 
subhagd  ushdh  iyam  vi  ydti  abhi  mdnushan  |  8.  Viivam  asydh  nandma 


182  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAS. 

ehahhase  jagcy  jyotish  hrinoti  sunart  \  apa  dvesho  maghoni  duhitd  dmal^ 
ushah  Vidhkad  apa  sridhah  \  9.  Ushah  a  Ihahi  hhanuna  chandrem  duhitar 
divah  I  avahanti  bhuri  asmabJiyam  swubhagam  vyuchhantl  dwishtt'shw  | 
10.  VUvasya  hi  jlvanam  prdmnam  ive  vi  yad  uehhasi  sunari  |  sa  no 
ratkena  Irikata  vibhavart  drudhi  chitramaghe  havam,  |  [i.  49,  1.  Usho 
bhadrebhir  a  gahi  divak  ohid  rochandd  adhi  \  vahantu  armapsavah  wpa 
tva  somino  griham  \  2.  Supeiasaih  suhham  rathaih  yam  adhyaathah  ushas 
tvam  I  tena  suira/oasam  janam  prava  adya  duMtar  divah  |  vi.  65,  2.  Vi 
tad  ya/ywr  a/rmayugbhir  aivaiS  chitram  bhdnti  ushasai  chandraraihdh  \ 
vii.  75,  6.  JPrati  dyutdndm  arushdso  ahdi  chitrdlf  adriirwnn  ushaaam 
vahcmtah  \  ydti  iubhrd  ,visvapikd  rathena  \~\.  i.  48,  12.  Visvdn  devdn  d 
vaha  somapttaye  antarikshdd  ushas  tvam  | 

"1.  Dawn  on  us  with  prosperity,  o  Ushas,  daughter  of  the  sty, 
with  great  glory,  o  luminous  and  bountiful  goddess,  with  riches.  2. 
(These  dawns)  bringing  horses  and  cows,  and  aU-bestowing,  have 
oftentimes  hastened  to  shine.""  Awake  for  me  joyful  voices  (or  hymns)"'' 
o  TJshas,  and  send  us  the  wealth  of  the  magnificent.  3.  Ushas  has 
dawned  (before) ;  let  her  now  dawn  (again),  the  goddess  who  impels 
our  chariots,  which  at  her  arrivals  are  borne  forward,  like  wealth- 
seekers  in  the  ocean."*"  4.  Kanva,  the  chief  of  his  race,  here  celebrates 
the  name  of  those  wise  men  who  at  thy  approaches,  o  Ushas,  direct 
their  thoughts  to  liberality.  5.  Like  an  active  woman,  Ushas  advances 
cherishing"*'  (all  things) ;  she  hastens  on  arousing  footed  creatures,"*'  and 

*"  The  word  vastave  ia  so  rendered  by  Benfey.  See  his  translation,  in  loco,  and 
his  Glossary  to  the  Sama-veda,  a.m.  ush,  and  vas,  and  i/astu  ;  and  Both  s.v.  mh.  2. 

»86  Benfey  renders  sunritah  here  by  "  HerrUohkeiten,"  '  glorious  things  ; '  but  in 
i.  92,  7,  and  i.  113,  12,  he  translates  the  same  word  hy  "beautiful  hymns."  A  note 
on  it  by  Professor  Aufrecht  wiU  be  found  further  on. 

"'  The  sense  of  dadhrire  in  this  clause  is  not  very  clear.  Prof.  Wilson  renders 
after  Sayana :  "  chariots,  which  are  harnessed  at  her  coming ;  as  those  who  are 
desirous  of  wealth  send  ships  to  sea."  Prof.  Benfey  explains  :  "  carts,  which  roU  at 
her  approach,  like  wealth-seekers  in  the  sea ; "  i.e.,  as  he  adds  in  a  note :  "  The 
waggons  full  of  wealth  are  driven  hither  by  the  dawn  ;  they  are  so  full  as  to  reel  and 
swing  about."    It  is  dificult  to  see  how  this  sense  can  be  extracted  from  the  words. 

2"  Sayana  makes  prabhimjati  =  prakarslima  sanam  palayantt.  Benfey  renders 
it  "ruling,"  and, Roth  s.v.  "rendering  service." 

S88  Professors  Benfey  and  Bollensen  (Orient  uud  Occident,  ii.  463)  both  explain 
jm-ayanti  here  in  the  sense  of  "  setting  in  motion,"  or  "  arousing,"  the  former  deriy. 
ing  it  from  the  root  jar,  "  to  hasten,"  and  the  latter  from  Jar  =  gar,  "  to  wake." — 
See  BoUensen's  remarks  in  pp.  463-465,  In  other  places,  as  we  shall  see,  and  aa  he 
allows,  it  must  be  rendered  "  making  old." 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAS.  183 

makes  the  birds  fly  aloft.  6.  She  sends  forth  both  the  active  and  the 
beggars  (to  their  occupation) ;  lively,  she  loves  not  to  stand  still ;  the 
flying  birds  no  longer  rest  after  thy  dawning,  o  bringer  of  food.'^' 
[i.  124,  12.  The  birds  fly  up  from  their  nests,  and  men  seeking  food, 
leave  their  homes.]  7.  She  has  yoked  (her  horses)  from  the  remote 
rising-place  of  the  sun ;  this  auspicious  TJshas  advances  towards  men 
with  a  hxmdred  chariots.  8.  Everything  that  moves  bows  down  before 
her  glance  ;  the  active  goddess  creates  light ;  by  her  appearance  the 
magnificent  daughter  of  the  sky  drives  away  our  haters ;  Ushas  has 
repelled  our  enemies.  9.  Shine  forth,  Ushas,  daughter  of  the  sky  with 
brilliant  radiance,  bringing  to  tis  abundant  prosperity,  dawning  upon 
our  devotions.  10.  In  thee,  when  thou  dawnest,  o  lively  goddess,  is  the 
life  and  the  breath  of  all  creatures ;  resplendent  on  thy  massive  car  hear 
our  invocation,  [i.  49,  1.  Come,  Ushas,  even  from  the  light  of  the  sky, 
by  auspicious  (paths) ;  let  the  ruddy  (horses)  bring  thee  to  the  house 
of  the  offerer  of  soma.  2.  Protect  to-day,  o  Ushas,  daughter  of  the 
sky,  the  prosperous  man  with  that  beautifully  formed  and  pleasant 
chariot  on  which  thou  standest.  vi.  65,  2.  They  went  apart  with 
their  ruddy-yoked  horses;  the  Dawns  on  the  luminous  cars  shine 
brilliantly,  vii.  75,  6.  The  bright  and  ruddy  steeds  were  beheld 
bearing  onward  the  shining  Ushas.  The  lustrous  goddess  moves  in  a 
chariot  beautified  with  all  sorts  of  ornaments],  i.  48,  12.  Ushas, 
bring  all  the  gods  to  drink  our^soma." 

i.  92,  1  (=S.V.  ii.  1105).  Mah  u  tyah  Ushaaah  hetum  ahrata  purve 
'rdhe  raj'aso "'"'  bhdnum  anjate  \  nuhhrimanah  ayudhanwa  dhrishmvah 
prati  gavo  arushlr  yanti  matwrah  j  2  (=  S.Y.  ii.  1106).  lid  apaptann 
arunah  hhanavo  vrithd  svayvjo  arushlr  gdh  ayuhshata  \  alcrann  ushaso 
vayunani  purvatha  ruiantam  hhdnum  arushir  aiiirayuh  \  3  (  =  8.V.  ii. 
1107).  Archanti  narir  apaso  na  mshtibhih  samanena  yojanena  a  para- 
vatah  I  isham  vahantlh  sulcrite  audanme  viiva  id  aha  yajamanaya  sun- 
vate  I  4.  AdM  peiamsi  vapate  nritur  iva  apornute  vaJcshah  usreva  har- 
jaham  |  j'yotir  viivmmai  hhmanaya  kfinvatl  gavo  na  vrcy'am  vi  ushah 

289  mjinlvati  is  explained  by  Yaska,  Nir.  xi.  26,  and  xii.  6,  by  anntwati;  and  by 
Sayana  on  R.V.  i.  3,  10,  by  anncmat-hriymafl,  "  mistress  of  rites  possessing  food." 
These  senses  of  the  word  seem  uncertain. 

'90  Compare  i.  124,  61 :  purve  'rdhe  rtyaso  aptyasya  gmam  jcmitrl  akrita  pra 
ketum  I  "  The  mother  of  the  cows  has  displayed  her  signal  in  the  eastern  part  of  the 
watery  firmament." 


184  HIMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAS. 

avar  tamafy  \  [i.  123,  10.  Kanyeva  tanva  ia^adana  esM  devi  devam 
iyakshamanam  \  samsmaywmana  yuvatih purastad  avw  vaksJtamsi  krinustis 
vvbh&ti  I  11.  Susankdsd  mdtnmrzshteva  yosha  avis  tanvam  krinushe 
driie  kam  J  i.  124,  4  (=Nirukta,  iv.  16).  Upo  ada/rsi  iundhymo  na 
vaksho  nodhah  ivavir  akrita  priyani  \  admasad  na  sasato  Igdhayantl 
iaSvattama  agat  punar  eyushmam  \  7  (=Nir.  iii.  5).  Alhr&td  iva  pum- 
mh  eti  pratlohi  gwrttdrug  iva  sanaye  dhandndm  ^"  |  jdyeva  patye  uiatl 
simdsdh  ushdh  hisreva  ni  rirate  apsah  \  v.  80,  5.  Eshd  sulhrd  na  ianvo 
viddnd  urdhveva  sndtl  drisaye  no  asthdi  |  vi.  64,  2.  Avir  vakshah  krinushe 
iumblmmdnd  devi  roehamdnd  mahohhih  \  compare  v.  80,  46].  i.  92,  5. 
Prati  archih  rusad  asydh  ada/rki  vi  tishthate  Iddhate  krishnam  abJwam'^^  \ 
svarufn,  na  peso  vidatheshu  anjan  ohitram  dwo  duhitd  Ihdnum  asret  | 
6.  Atdrishma  tamasas  pdram  asya  ushah  uehhantl  vayund  krinoti  \  sriye 
ehhando  na  smayate  vibMti  supratikd  saumanasdya  ajigah  \  7.  Bhdsvatl 
netrl  sunritdndtn  dvvah  sta/oe  duhitd  Qotamelhih  \  prajdvato  nrivato  asva- 
hudhydn  usho  goagrdn  upa  mdsi  vdjdn  \  8.  Ushas  tarn  asydm  yaSasam 
suvirdm  ddsapravargam  rayim  aivabudhyam  \  sudamsasd  iravasd  yd  vi 
hhdsi  vajaprasutd  subhage  hrihantam  \  9.  Viivdni  devt  Ihuvand  'bhicha- 
ksJiya  pratlcM  chakshur  urviyd  vibhdti  |  viivam  jivam  charase  bodhayantl 
vi^vasya  vaeham  avidat  mandyoh  \  10.  Funah  punar  jdyamdnd  '^'  purdni 
aamdnam  varmm  abhi  Sumbhamdnd  |  Svaghmva  kritnur  vijah  dmindnd 
martasya  devi  jarayanti  dyuTi  \  11.  Vyurmti  divo  antdn  dbodhi  upa  sva- 
sdram  sanuta/r  yuyoti  \  praminatl  manushyd  yugdni  yoshd  jdrasya  cha- 
kshasd  vilMti  |  [i.  115,  2.  Suryo  devim  TTshasham  rochamdndm  maryo 
na  yoshdm  abhi  eti  pahhdt  \  vii.  75,  4.  Bivo  duhitd  bhuvanasya  patnl  \ 
6.  Vdjinwatl  suryasya  yoshd'].  i.  92,  12.  Faiun  na  chitrd  subhagd 
prathdnd  sindhur  na  kshodah  urviyd  vi  aivait  \  aminati  daivydni  vratdni 
suryasya  cheti  raimibhir  drisand  |  13.  JJshas  tat  chitram  dbhara  asma- 
bhyam  vdjinivati  \  yena  tokam  aha  tanayam  oha  dhamahe  \  14.  Usho  adyeha 
gomati  ahdvati  vibhdvari  |  revad  asme  vi  uchha  sunritdvafi  \  15.  Yukshna 
hi  vdjinivati  asvdn  adya  arundn  ushalj,  \  atha  no  vihd  saubhaguni  dvaha  | 

2"  Compare  E.V.  ix.  96,  20. 

'^^  Compare  It.  51,  9  :  GuhantTh  adhvam  asitam  rusadbhir  suhras  tanubhih  sueha- 
yah  I  "The  bright  lucid  Dawns  conoealing  the  black  abyss  with  their  radiant  bodies." 

*'?  Compare  i.  123,  2 :  ZTcheha  vi  akhyad  ywvatih  punardhuh  |  "  The  youthful 
(goddess)  born  anew,  haa  shone  forth  on  high."  iii.  61,  1 :  FurSm  devi  yuvatih 
pwramdhir  anu  matam  ohm-am,  \  "  Thou,  o  goddess,  old,  (and  yet)  young,  wise, 
movest  at  thy  will." 


HTMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  TJSHAS.  185 

"1.  These  Dawns  have  become  conspicuous;  they  display  their 
lustre  in  the  eastern  hemisphere;  like  bold  warriors  drawing  forth 
their  weapons',  the  ruddy  mother-cows  advance.  2.  The  rosy  beams 
have  flashed  up  spontaneously ;  they  have  yoked  the  self-yoked  ruddy 
cows.  The  Dawns,  as  of  old,  have  brought  us  consciousness ;  the  red 
cows  have  assumed  a  brilliant  lustre.  3.  Like  women  active  in  their 
occupations,  they  shine  from  afar  along  a  common  track,  bringing  sus- 
tenance to  the  pious  and  liberal  worshipper,  and  all  things  to  the  man 
who  offers  libations  of  soma.  4.  Ushas,  Hke  a  dancer,  puts  on  her  gay 
attire ;  she  displays  her  bosom  as  a  cow  its  udder :  creating  light  for 
all  the  world,  she  has  dissipated  the  darkness,  as  cattle  (abandon)  their 
staU."'*  [i.  123,  10.  Like  a  maid  triumphing  ^'°  in  her  (beautiful)  form, 
thou,  goddess,  advancest  to  meet  the  god  who  seeks  after  thee  (the  sun)  ; 
smiling,  youthful,  and  resplendent,  thou  unveilest  thy  bosom  in  front. 
11.  Like  a  fair  girl  adorned  by  her  mother,  thou  displayest  thy  body  to 
the  beholder,  i.  124,  4.  She  has  been  beheld  like  the  bosom  of  a  bright 
maiden.'''^  Like  Nodhas,^"  she  has  revealed  things  that  we  love. 
Awaking  the  sleepers  like  an  inmate  of  the  house,  she  has  come,  the 
most  perpetual  of  all  the  females  who  have  returned.  7.  As  a  woman 
who  has  no  brother  appears  in  presence  of  (another)  man,  as  a  man 
mounted  on  a  chariot  goes  forth  in  pursuit  of  wealth,  as  a  loving  wife 
shews  herself  to  her  husband,  so  does  Ushas,  as  it  were,  smiling, 
reveal  her  form.'™     v.  80,  5.  She  displays  her  person  like  a  fair 


's*  "As  cattle  of  their  own  accord  go  quickly  to  their  own  cowpen " — Sayana. 
"  As  cows  open  their  stall" — Benfey.     See  his  note  in  loco. 

'9'  The  word  so  rendered  is  dasadnnd. — Sayaua  explains  it  "  becoming  manifest." 
The  word,  however,  as  appears  from  the  context,  as  well  as  other  passages  in  which 
it  occurs,  i.  33,  13 ;  i.  116,  2  ;  i.  124,  6 ;  i.  141,  9 ;  Tii.  98,  4  ;  vii.  104,  24 ;  x. 
120,  5,  has  evidently  the  sense  assigned  to  it  by  Eoth,  in  Illust.  of  Nir.  p.  83,  where 
he  renders  it  by  "  triumphing,"  in  i.  33,  13,  and  x.  120,  6.  In  the  passage  before  ns 
he  makes  it  mean  "distinguished  by  beauty."  Benfey  explains  it  by  "  triumphing " 
in  i.  33,  13,  and  i.  116,  2.  His  translation  of  the  E.V.  does  not  extend  beyond  the 
118th  hymn  of  the  1st  Maudala. 

296  Sayana,  following  Yaska,  explains  s'undhyimio  na  vakshah,  as  the  "  rays  on  the 
breast  of  the  sun,"  or  as  "  the  breast  of  a  particular  white  water  bird."  Eoth,  Illust, 
of  Nir.  p.  44,  translates  "  as  the  breast  of  a  pure  virgin." 

29'  This  is  the  name  of  a  Eishi.  Roth  thinks  it  may  be  an  appellative  here. 
Miiller,  Trans,  of  E.V.  i.  p.  107,  thinks  it  may  have  the  general  meaning  of  poet. 

298  Roth,  Illust.  of  Nir.  p.  25,  says  "  The  sense  of  the  verse  appears  to  be  :  "  as  a 
brotherless  maiden,  who  after  her  father's  death  has  no  longer  any  home,  turns  more 


186  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  XJSHAS. 

woman,  like  one  rising  out  of  the  water  in  which,  she  has  heen  bathing, 
vi.  64, 2.  Thou,  full  of  brightness,  displayest  thy  bosom,  o  goddess,  shin- 
ing in  thy  glory],  i.  92,  5.  Her  bright  ray  has  been  perceived;  it  ex- 
tends and  pierces  the  black  abyss.  The  daughter  of  the  Sky  has  assumed 
a  brilliant  glow,  like  the  decorations  of  the  sacrificial  post  on  festivals. 
6.  We  have  crossed  over  this  darkness  ;  TJshas  dawning  restores  con- 
sciousness ;  radiant,  she  smiles  like  a  flatterer  seeking  his  own  advan- 
tage ;  fair  in  her  aspect,  she  has  awakened  all  creatures  to  cheerful- 
ness. 7.  The  shining  daughter  of  the  skies,  leader  of  cheerful  voices 
(or  hymns),^"  has  been  lauded  by  the  Gotamas.  TJshas,  thou  distri- 
butest  resources  in  offspring,  men,  horses,  and  kine.  8.  Blessed  TJshas, 
thou  who,  animated  by  strength,  shinest  forth  with  wonderful  riches, 
may  I  obtain  that  renowned  and  solid  wealth,  which  consists  in  stout 
sons,  numerous  slaves,  and  horses.  9.  Directing  her  eyes  towards  aU 
creatures,  the  goddess  shines  before  them  far  aad  wide.  Bousing  into 
motion  every  living  thing,  she  notices  the  voice  of  every  adorer.  10. 
Born  again  and  again,  though  ancient,  shining  with  an  ever  uniform 
hue,  (she  goes  on)  wasting  away  the  life  of  mortals,  carrying  it  away 
as  a  clever  gambler  the  stakes.™"  11.  She  is  perceived  revealing  the 
ends  of  the  sky ;  she  chases  far  away  her  sister  (Night).  Wearing  out 
the  lives  of  men,  the  lady  shines  with  the  light  of  her  lover  (the  sun), 
[i.  115,  2.  The  sun  follows  the  shining  goddess  TJshas,  as  a  man,  com- 
ing after,  approaches  a  woman,  vii.  75,  4.  Daughter  of  the  Sky, 
mistress  of  the  world,  food-providing  wife  of  the  sun.]  i.  92,  12. 
The  bright,  and  blessed  goddess  has  widely  diffused  her  rays,  as 
if  she  were  driving  forth  cattle  in  various  directions,  or  as  a  river 

boldly  to  men,  as  a  warrior  on  a  ebiariot  goes  forth  proudly  to  conquer  booty  (comp. 
ii.  96,  20),  as  a  decorated  wife  in  presence  of  her  husband,  so  TTshas  unveils  before 
the  eyes  of  meu  all  her  beauty,  smiling  as  it  were  in  the  sure  consciousness  of  its  over- 
powering effect."  This  explanation  seems  to  express  well  the  import  of  the  word 
aas'adana  as  interpreted  in  a  previous  note. 

239  See  above,  note  285. 

300  Sayana  takes  s'vaghm  for  a  "fowler's  wife"  (vi/adha-stri),  and  vijah  for 
"  birds."  See  Wilson  in  loco.  Benfey  takes  vijah  for  "  dice,"  and  explains  the 
clause  as  denoting  a  cunning  gambler  who  tampers  with  the  dice,  by  shaving  them 
down.  See  his  note.  BoUensen,  Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  464,  translates :  "  as  a 
fortunate  gamester  carries  off  the  gains."  The  phrase  vij'ah  iva  a  mindti  occurs  again 
in  R.V.  ii.  126,  where  Sayana  takes  vijah  for  udvejakah,  "a  yexer."  So  uncertain 
are  bis  explanations  ! 


HYMNS  ADDEESSED  TO  TTSHAS.  187 

rolling  down  its  floods  ;  maintaining  the  ordinances  of  the  gods,  she 
is  perceived,  made  visible  by  the  rays  of  the  sun.  13.  ITshas,  provider 
of  food,  bring  us  that  brilliant  fortune  whereby  we  may  possess  off- 
spring. 14.  Ushas,  resplendent,  awaking  cheerful  voices  (or  hymns), 
dawn  richly  upon  us  to-day,  bringing  cows  and  horses.  15.  Yoke  to- 
day, Ushas,  thy  ruddy  steeds,  and  then  bring  us  all  blessings." 

i.  113,  1  (^S.T.  ii.  1099;  'Nix.  ii.  19).  Idam  ireshtham  jyotishdm 
jyotir  affdt  chitrah  praieto  ajcmishta  vibhvd  \  yatha  prasutd  Savituh 
smaya  eva  rdtri  Vshase  yonim,  araik  \  [i.  124,  8.  Svasd  svasre  jyd- 
yasyai  yonim  a/raig  apaiti  asydh  pratiohahshya  iva]  i.  113,  2  (  = 
S.V.  ii.  1100;  "Exc.  ii.  20).  Ruiadvatsd  rusatl  ivetyd  dyad  araig  u 
krishm  sadandni  asydh  \  samdnahandhu  amrite  anuchi  dydvd  varmm 
eharatah  dminane  \  3  (=  S.V.  ii.  1101).  Samdno  adhvd  svasror  anan- 
tas  tarn  amyd  'nyd  charato  devasishte  \  na  methete  na  tashthatuh  swmeke 
nahtoshdsha  samanasd  virupe  \  4.  Bhdsvatl  netri  sunritdnam  acheti 
ehitrd  vi  djwro  nah  dvah  \  prdrpya  jagad  vi  u  no  rdyo  akhyad  ushdh 
ajiga/r  Ihuvan&ni  viivd  \  [i.  48,  15.  Usho  yad  adya  Ihdnund  vi 
dodrdv  rinavo  divah  \  ityadi'\  i.  113,  5.  Jihmaiye  charitave  maghom 
abhogaye  ishtaye  rdye  u  tvam  \  dahhram  pakyadhhyah  urviyd  vi 
ehakshe  ushdh  (yigar  hhuvandni  visvd  \  6.  Kshattrdya  tvam  sravase  tvam 
mahlyai  ishtaye  tvam  a/rtham  iva  imam  ityai  \  visadrisd  jlvitd  'hhipra- 
ehahhe  ushdh  a^igojr  hhuvandni  visvd  \  1.  Eshd  divo  duhitd  pratyadarsi 
vyuchhrnitt  yimatih  suhrwodsdh '"  |  visvasyeidnd  pdrthivasya  vasvah  usho 
adyeha  suhhage  vi  uchha  \  8.  Pardyatlndm  anu  eti  pdthah  dyatindm 
prathama  iasvatlndm  \  vyuohhantl  jlvam  udirayanti  ushdh  mritam  kam 
chana  hodhayanti  \  [i.  123,  8.  Sadrisir  adya  sadriiir  id  u  ho  dirgham 
saehante  Varunasya  dhdma  |  ancmadyds  trimiatam  yojcmdni  ekaikd  Jcra- 
tum  pari  yanti  sadyah  |  9.  Jdnati  ahnah  prathamasyo  ndma  iukrd  Icrish- 
ndd  ajcmishta  sviticM  \  ritasya  yoshd  na  mindti  dhdma  ahwr  ahar  nish- 
Tcritam  dcharantf\  i.  113,  9.  Usho  yad  agnim  samidhe  ehaka/rtha  vi  yad 
dvai  ehahshasd  suryasya  \  yad  mdnushdn  yakshyamandn  cylgas  tad  deveshu 
chakrishe  hhadram  apnah  \  10.  Eiyati  d  tat  samayd  hhavdti  yah  vyushur 
yai  cha  nunam  vyuchhdn  \  anu  purvdh  hripate  vdva^dnd  pradidhyana 
josham  anydhhir  ydti  |  11.  lyus  te  ye  purvata/rdm  apakyan  vyuehhantim 
ushasam  martydsah  |  asmdbhir  u  nu  pratichakshyd  alhud  a  u  te  yanti 

301  Compare  vii.  77,  2 :   Visvam  pratichl  saprathgh  ud  asthad  ruiad  vaso  bibhrati 
aukram  aavait. 


188  HYMNS  ADDEESSED  TO  USHAS. 

ye  a/pmishu  pakyan  \  12.  Y&vayaddvesha  ritapah  ritejah  sumn&varl 
sunrita  irayanti  \  swmangalvr  libkratl  devavUim  ihddya  ZTshdh  irestha- 
tama  vi  ucMa  |  13.  S'asvatpwd  ushah  vi  uvasa  den  atho  adya  idam  vi 
avo  maglionl  \  atho  vi  uchhad  uttaran  anu  dyun  ajarS,  'mritd  eharati 
svadMhMh  \  14.  Vi  anjilhir  divah  dtdsu  adyaud  apa  hrishndm  nirnijam 
devi  avah  \  prabodhayanti  a/runehhir  asvair  a  ushah  yati  suyuja  rathena  \ 
15.  Avahanti poshyd  vdrydni chitram  hetum  Icrinute  chekitdnd  llyushlnum 
upamd  sdivatindm  vibhdtmam  prathama  ushah  vi  aivait  \  [i.  124,  2, 
Aminati  daivydni  vraidni  praminati  manushyd  yugani  \  lyusMndm 
vpama  sahatlnam  ayatinam  prathama  ushah  vy  adyaut  |]  i.  113,  16. 
Ud  irdhvam,  jivo  asur  nah  dgdd  apa  pragdt  tamah  a  jyotvr  eti  \  araik 
panthdm  yatme  Burydya  aganma  yatra  pratirante  dyuh  \  17.  Syumand 
vdchah  ud  iyartti  vahnih  sfavdno  rtbhah  ushaso  mlhdtlh  \  adya  tad  uehha 
grinate  maghoni  asme  ayur  ni  didihi  prajdvat  \  18.  Yah  gomatlr  usha- 
sah  sa/rvamrah  vyuchhanti  ddSushe  martydya  \  vdyor  iva  sunritdnam 
udarhe  tdh  ahaddh  asnavat  somasutvd  \  19.  Mdtd  devandm  Aditer  am- 
harh  yajnasya  ketur  Irihatl  vi  hhahi  |  praiastilcrid  irahmane  no  vi  uehha 
a  no  jane  janaya  visvwodre  \  20.  Yat  chitram  apnah  ushaso  vahanti  Ijdndya 
iasamdnaya  Ihad/ram  \  tan  no  Mitro  Varuno  mamahantdm  Adiiih  sindhuh 
Prithivi  uta  Byauh  \ 

"1.  "  This  light  has  arrived,  the  greatest  of  all  lights  ;  the  glorious 
and  brilliant  illumination  has  been  born.  Inasmuch  as  she  (Ushas) 
has  been  produced  for  the  production  of  Savitri,  the  Mght  has 
made  way  for  TJshas.  [i.  124,  8.  The  sister  (Night)  has  made 
way  for  her  elder  sister  (Ushas)  ;  and  departs,  after  she  has,  as  it 
were,  looked  upon  her],  i.  113,  2.  The  fair  and  bright  Ushas, 
with  her  bright  child  (the  Sun)  has  arrived  ;  to  her  the  dark 
(Night)  has  relinquished  her  abodes ;  kindred  to  one  another,  im- 
mortal, alternating,  Day  and  Night  go  on  changing  colour.  3.  The 
same  is  the  never-ending  path  of  the  two  sisters,  which  they  travel, 
commanded  by  the  gods.  They  strive  not,  they  rest  not,  the  proMc 
Night  and  Dawn,  concordant,  though  unlike.  4.  The  shining  Ushas, 
leader  of  joyful  voices  (or  hymns),  has  been  perceived ;  she  has  opened 
for  us  the  doors  (of  the  sky)  :  setting  in  motion  all  moving  things, 
she  has  revealed  to  us  riches ;  Ushas  has  awakened  all  creatures, 
fi.  48,  15.  Ushas,  as  thou  hast  by  thy  light  opened  to  us  the  two 
doors  of  heaven,  etc.]    i.  113,  5.  (Arousing)  the  prostrate  sleeper  to 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  TTSHAS.  189 

move,  (impelling)  another  to  enjoyment,  to  the  pursuit  of  wealth, 
(enabling)  those  who  see  but  a  little  way,  to  see  far ;  Ilshas  has 
awakened  all  creatures.  6.  (Arousing)  one  to  seek  royal  powerj 
another  to  follow  after  fame,  another  for  grand  efforts,  another  to 
pursue  as  it  were  his  particular  object, — ^Ushas  awakes  aU  creatures  to 
consider  their  different  modes  of  life.  7.  She,  the  daughter  of  the  sky, 
has  been  beheld  breaking  forth,  youthful,  clad  in  shining  attire: 
mistress  of  aU  earthly  treasures,  auspicious  Ushas,  shine  here  to-day. 
8.  Ushas  follows  the  track  of  the  Dawns  that  are  past,  and  is  the 
first  of  the  unnumbered  Dawns  that  are  to  come,  breaking  forth, 
arousing  life,  and  awaking  every  one  that  was  dead.  [i.  123,  8. 
Alike  to-day,  alike  to-morrow,  they  observe  the  perpetual  ordinance 
of  Varuna.  Spotless,  they  each  instantaneously  shoot  forward  thirty 
yojanas,  their  destined  task.'"'  9.  Knowing  the  indication  of  the 
earliest  day,  the  bright,  the  lucid  (goddess)  has  been  bom  from  the 
black  (gloom).  The  female  does  not  transgress  the  settled  ordinance, 
coming  day  by  day  to  the  appointed  place.]  i.  113,  9.  Inasmuch  as 
thou  hast  made  Agni  to  be  kindled,  hast  shone  forth  by  the  light  of 
the  sun,  and  hast  awakened  the  men  who  are  to  offer  sacrifice,  thou 
hast  done  good  service  to  the  gods.  10.  How  great  is  the  interval 
that  lies  between™  the  Dawns  which  have  arisen,  and  those  which 
are  yet  to  arise  ?  Ushas  yearns  longingly  after  the  former  Dawns, 
and  gladly  goes  on  shining  with  the  others  (that  are  to  come). 
11.  Those  mortals  are  gone  who  saw  the  earliest  Ushas  dawning ;  we 
shall  gaze  upon  her  now ;  and  the  men  are  coming  who  are  to  behold 
her  on  future  morns.  12.  Eepelling  foes,  protecting  right  (or  rites), 
born  in  right  (or  rites),  imparting  joy,  stimulating  joyful  voices  (or 
hjrmns),  bringing  good  fortune,  promoting  the  feast  of  the  gods,  rise  on 
us,  Ushas,  the  best  (of  all  Dawns).  13.  Perpetually  in  former  days  did 
the  divine  Ushas  dawn  ;  and  now  to-day  the  magnificent  goddess 
beams  upon  this  world :  undecaying,  immortal,  she  marches  on  by  her 
own  wiU.  14.  She  has  shone  forth  with  her  splendours  on  the  borders 
of  the  sky ;   the  bright  goddess  has  chased  away  the  dark  veU  of 

">'  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v,  Tfotw. 

303  samaya  means  "  near,"  according  to  Sayana.  Prof.  MuUer,  Trans,  p.  220, 
considers  it  to  signify  "  together,"  "  at  once."  The  rendering  I  have  given  is  that 
of  Professor  Aufrecht. 


190  RELATIONS  OF  USHAS 

night;  arousing  the  world,  Ushas  advances  in  her  well-yoked  car, 
drawn  by  ruddy  steeds.  15.  Bringing  with  her  abundant  boons, 
revealing  herself,  she  displays  a  brilliant  lustre.  TJshas  has  shone 
forth,  the  last  of  the  numerous  Dawns  which  are  past,  and  the  first  of 
those  which  are  coming,  [i.  124,  2.  Maintaining  the  ordinances  of 
the  gods,  but  wasting  away  the  lives  of  men,  Ushas  has]  shone  forth, 
the  last  of  the  numerous  former  dawns,  and  the  first  of  those  that  are 
coming.]  i.  113,  16.  Arise!  our  life,  our  breath,  has  come;  darkness 
has  departed ;  light  arrives ;  Ushas  has  opened  up  a  path  for  the  sun 
to  travel :  we  have  reached  the  point  where  men  prolong  their  days. 
17.  The  priest,  the  poet,  celebrating  the  brightening  Dawns,  arises  with 
the  web™*  of  his  hymn ;  shine  therefore,  magnificent  Ushas,  on  him 
who  praises  thee;  gleam  on  us  with  life  and  offspring.  18.  May  he 
who  offers  libations  of  soma  obtain  such  Dawns  as  rise  upon  the  liberal 
mortal,  (Dawns)  rich  in  tine,  in  (sons)  all  stalwart,  and  in  horses,  at 
the  end  of  his  hymns  which  resound  like  the  wind.^"^  19.  Mother  of 
the  gods,  manifestation  of  Aditi,  forerunner  of  the  sacrifice,  mighty 
Ushas,  shine  forth !  Arise,  bestowing  approbation  on  our  prayer ;  giver 
of  all  boons,  increase  our  progeny.'"*  20.  May  Mitra,  Yaruna,  Aditi, 
the  Ocean,  the  Earth,  and  the  Sky,  bestow  upon  us  those  brilliant  and 
excellent  resources  which  the  Dawns  bring  to  the  man  who  offers 
sacrifice  and  praise." 

(2)  Belations  of  Ushas  ta  the  other  deities. 

Ushas,  as  we  have  seen,  is  constantly  described  as  the  daughter  of 
the  Sky  {duhita  Bivah,  as  in  i.  30,  22 ;  i.  48,  1,  8,  9  ;  i.  92,  5,  7 ;  i. 
183,  2;  iv.  30,  8;  vii.  67,  2;  viii.  47,  14  f.;  divijaJi  in  vii.  75,  1)."" 
She  is  also  called  the  sister  of  Bhaga  and  the  kinswoman  of  Varuna, 
i.  123,  5  {Bhagasya  svasa  Varumsya  jamih).     She  is  also  the  sister  of 

'»*  Syumana  is  taken  by  Sayana  as  an  accusative  plural  and  construed  with 
vachah  in  the  sense  of  "hymns  sewed  together,"  or  "connected."  Professor  Benfey 
takes  it  as  the  instrumental  singular  of  syuman,  and  renders,  "  with  the  weh  of  the 
word."      Professor  Aufrecht  confirms  this  view,  referring  to  E.V.  iii.  61,  4. 

305  See  Benfey  in  loeo,  and  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v.  udarlca,  where  sunrita  is  ex- 
plained of  hymns. 

306  Professor  Aufrecht  proposes  to  translate  jane  a  janaya  by  "  give  us  prominence 
among  men."  Sayana  explains  the  words  by  "  settle  us  in  the  country"  [janapade 
abhimukhyena  pradwbhmm/a  \  avasthapaya. 

3"'  In  i.  46,  1,  she  is  called  "  the  beloved  of  the  Sky  "  {priya  Divah). 


TO  THE  OTHER  DEITIES.  igi 

Night,  i.  1 13,  2,  3  ;  x.  127,  3,  and  in  i.  124,  8,  the  elder  sister.  Night 
is  also  in  one  place,  x.  127,  8,  called  the  daughter  of  the  Sky.  The 
two  sisters  are  frequently  conjoined  in  the  duals  naJctoshasd  and  uskasa- 
mUa  or  otherwise,  i.  13,  7  ;  i.  90,  7;  i.  96,  5;  i.  122,  2;  i.  186,  4; 
ii.  2,  2 ;  ii.  3,  6 ;  ii.  31,  5 ;  iv.  55,  3 ;  v.  41,  7  ;  vii.  2,  6 ;  vii.  42,  5  ; 
ix.  5,  6  ;  X.  36,  1 ;  x.  70,  6 ;  x.  110,  6.  In  vii.  2,  6,  they  are  com- 
pared to  two  great  celestial  females  {yoshane  divye  mahl  na  ushasanahta), 
and  in  ii.  31,  5,  they  are  characterized  as  the  two  hlessed  goddesses 
•who  are  seen  alternately '"'  and  impel  all  moving  things  {uta  tye  devi 
suhhage  mithudrisa  ushasdnaktd  jagatam  apijuva  \  stushe  |).  TJshas  is 
also,  as  was  to  he  expected,  frequently  brought  into  connection  with 
the  Sun.  As  we  have  seen  above,  he  is  called  her  lover,  i.  92,  11,  or  if 
with  Both,  s.v.jara,  we  should  understand  this  of  Agni,  the  Sun  is 
indubitably  described  as  going  after  TJshas  as  a  man  after  a  woman,  in 
i.  115,  2,  quoted  above.  He  is  said  to  follow  her  track,  v.  81,  2 
{savita  anu  prayamm  ushaso  m  rajaW) ;  and  she  is  represented  as 
bringing  the  eye  of  the  gods  and  leading  on  the  beautiful  white  horse 
(the  sun),  vii.  77,  3.  She  is  declared  to  be  the  mistress  of  the  world 
and  the  wife  of  the  sun,  vii.  75,  5  {Ihuvanasya  patnl  \  vajinlvatl  suryasya 
yosha),  as  the  Dawns,  in  the  plural,  are  said  to  be  in  iv.  5,  13  {Tcada  no 
devir  amritasya  patnih  suro  va/rnena  tatanann  ushasaK).  In  iii.  61,  4, 
TJshas  is  said  to  be  svasarasya  patm,  which  Sayana  renders  wife  of  the 
Sun  or  the  Day.^°'  In  vii.  78,  3,  the  Dawns  are  even  said  to  generate 
the  sun,  sacrifice  and  Agni  {ajijanan  surya'm  yajnam  agnim).  TJshas  and 
Agni  are  also  frequently  brought  into  conjunction,  fire  being  always 
kindled  for  sacrificial  purposes  at  dawn.  He  is  called  her  lover,  and 
is  said  to  appear  with,  or  before  the  dawn,  i.  69,  1 ;  i.  124,  1,  11 ;  iii. 
6,  1  ;  iv.  13,  1 ;  iv.  14,  1  ;  vii.  8,  1  ;  vii.  9,  1,  3 ;  vii.  10,  1 ;  vii.  67, 
2;  vii.  77,  1 ;  vii.  78,  2;  viii.  43,  5  ;  x.  1,  1 ;  x.  8,  4;  x.  35,  6;  x. 
122,  7.''"  In  one  place  he  is  represented  as  going  to  meet  her  as  she 
comes,  and  to  beg  for  riches  (iii.  61,  6.  ayatim  Agne  Zfshasam  vihhatim 
vdmam  eshi  dravtnam  hMhhamdnah).    In  vii.  6,  5,  Agni  is  said  to  have 

'"^  So  Professor  Both  understands  mithudrisa.  Sayana  makes  it  "looking  at 
each  other." 

3™  Eoth,  however,  lUustr.  of  Kirukta,  p.  66,  says  svasara  (neuter)  means  only 
customary  road,  place  of  abode,  court  for  cattle,  but  be  does  not  advert  to  this  passage. 

^'o  In  X.  3,  3  ( =  S.  V.  ii.  898),  Agni  appears  to  be  the  lover  of  his  sister,  the  Night. 
See  Benfey's  trans,  of  the  S.V.  ii.  898. 


192  EELATIONS  OP  USHAS 

made  the  Da'wns,  the  spouses  of  the  noble  god  (yo  arywpatnir  ushasai  cha- 
kdra),  which  Sayana  understands  of  the  sun.    TJshas  is  also  often  con- 
nected with  the  A^vins,  the  time  of  whose  manifestation,  as  we  shall 
hereafter  see,  is  regarded  hy  Taska~  as  being  between  midnight  and 
sunrise,  i.  44,  2 ;  i.  180,  1 ;  iii.  20,  1  ;  vii.  69,  5;  vii.  72,  3,  4 ;  yiii. 
9,  18;  X.  41,  1.     They  are  said  to  associate  with  her,  i.  183,  2  {Dwo 
duhitrd  ZTshasd  sachethe) ;  and  she  is  said  to  be  their  friend,  iv.  52,  2 
{sakhd  'hhud  Aivinor  TTshdh  \  3.  TJta  saTikd  'si  AkvinoK).    In  viii.  9, 17, 
she  is  called  upon  to  awaken  them  {pra  lodhaya  Usho  Ahind").    Her 
hymn  is  said  to  have  awoke  them,  iii.  68,  1  {Vahasah  storm  Ahindv 
ajigah).  Again,  however,  we  are  told  that  when  the  A^vins'  car  is  yoked, 
the  daughter  of  the  sky  is  born,  x.  39,  12  {yasya  yoge  duMtd  jdyate' 
Dwah).    In  one  place,  x.  85,  19,  the  moon  is  said  to  be  born  again  and 
again,  ever  new,  and  to  go  before  Ushas  as  the  herald  of  the  day  (ntwo 
novo  hhcwati  jdyamdno  ahndm  Icetur  ushasdm  eti  agram).     Indra  is 
said  to  have  created,  or  lighted  up,  TJshas,  ii.  12,  7  {yah  suryafh  yah 
Vshasam  jajdnd);  ii.  21,  4;  iii.  31,  15;  iii.  32,  8;  iii.  44,  2  {Jimrya/im 
ushasam  arehayah)  ;   vi.   17,  5.      He  is,  however,  sometimes  repre- 
sented as  assuming  a  hostile  attitude  towards  her.     In  ii.  15,  6,  he  is 
said  to  have  crushed  her  chariot  with  his  thunderbolt  {vajrena  anah 
Ushasah  sampipesJia).     The  same  thing  is  repeated  in  iv.   30,  8  ff. 
(where   the  poet,  with  the  want  of  gallantry  which   was   so   cha- 
racteristic of  the  ancients,  does  not  hesitate  to   admire  the  manli- 
ness and  heroism  of  Indra  in  overcoming  a  female)  :    Etad  gha  id 
uta  viryyam  Ind/ra  ehdkartha  pauihsyam  \  striyam  yad  durhandyuvam 
vadhir  duhitaram  Bivah  \  9.  Biva^  chid  gha  duhitaram  mahdn  mahiya- 
mdndm  \    Vshasam  Indra  sam  pinak  \   10  (=  Mrukta,  xi.  47).  A/pa 
Ushdh  anasah  sarat  sampishtdd  aha  bibhyusM  |  ni  yat  sim  U^nathad 
vrishd  \   11  (=  Nir.  xi.  48).  Mad  asydh  anah  saye  susampishtdm  vipdii 
d  \  sasdra  sim  pardvatah  \   "8.  This,  Indra,  was  a  deed  of  might  and 
manliness  which  thou  didst  achieve,  that  thou  didst  smite  the  daughter 
of  the  skyj  a  woman  who  was  bent  on  evil.     9.  Thou  Indra,  a  great 
(god),  didst  crush  Ushas,  though  the  daughter  of  the  sky,  who  was  ex- 
alting herself.    10.  Ushas  fled  away  in  terror  from  her  shattered  car, 
when  the  vigorous  (Indra)  had  crushed  it.   II.  This  chariot  of  hers  lies 
broken  and  dissolved,  while  she  herself  has  fled  afar  off."      These 
verses  are  translated  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta  by  Eoth,  who 


TO  THE  OTHER  BEITIES.  193 

adduces  E.V.  x.  188,  6,  as  referring  to  the  same  myth:  Indrasya 
vof'rad  abihhed  dbhUnathah  prdkramat  sundhyur  ajahdd  Ushah  anah  \ 
"  The  bright  Ushas  was  afraid  of  the  destructive  thunderbolt  of  Indra  ; 
she  departed  and  abandoned  her  chariot."  And  in  x.  73,  6,  it  is  said 
that  Indra  destroyed  certain  foes  like  the  chariot  of  TJshas  {cwahann 
Ind/rah  JTsham  yatha  anah). 

Soma  is  said  to  have  made  the  Dawns  bright  at  their  birth,  vi.  39,  3, 
{sitchijanmemah  UshasaS  chahara),  and  to  have  formed  them  the  wives 
of  a  glorious  husband,  vi.  44,  23  {ayam  dkrinod  ushaBoh  swpatmli). 
Brihaspati  is  said  to  have  discovered  TJshas,  the  Sun,  etc.,  x.  67,  5, 
{Brihaspatir  Ushasaih  Suryafk  gam  arham  viveda),  and  to  have  repelled 
the  darkness  by  light,  x.  68,  9  {so  arhena  vi  habddhe  tamamsi). 

The  early  fathers,  who  were  wise  and  righteous,  and  companions  of 
the  gods  in  their  festivities,  are  said  to  have  possessed  efficacious  hymns 
wherewith  they  discovered  the  hidden  light,  and  generated  Ushas,  vii. 
76,  4  (te  id  devdndm  sadhamadah  dsann  ritdvdnah  kavayah  purvydsah  \ 
guTham  jyoti/r  pita/ro  amavindan  satyamantrdh  ajanayann  Uahdsam). 

(3)  Epithets,  eharaeferistics,  and  functions  of  TTshas. 

The  IN'ighantu,  i.  8,  gives  sixteen  names  of  Ushas,  which  seem  to  be 
almost  entirely  epithets,  viz.  vilhdvan  (the  resplendent),  sunmrl  (the 
beautiful),  hhdsvatl  (the  shining),  odatl  (the  flowing,  gushing,  from  the 
root  ud,  according  to  Professor  Both,  s.v.),  chitrdmaghd  (possessed  of 
brilliant  riches),  arjunl  (the  white),  vajinl,  vajinivatl  (the  bringer  of 
food),  sumndvwrl  (the  giver  of  joy),  ahand,  dyotand  (the  bright),  ivetya 
(the  fair-coloured),  arushi  (the  ruddy),  sunritd,  sunritdvati,  sunritd- 
vari  (the  utterer  of  pleasant  or  sacred  voices).'"   Some  of  these  epithets 

'•'  Professor  AufrecM  thinks  that  this  word  sunrita  is  to  be  explained  as  follows :  He 
considers  it  to  he  a  derivatiTO  from  nrit,  "  to  he  in  motion,"  compounded  with  m. 
Its  first  meaning  is  'movable'  (sunrita  maghani,  E.V.  vii.  57,  6),  then  'brisk,' 
'  alert '  {sunrita,  predicated  of  Indra,  viii.  46,  20 ;  sunrite  at  TJshas,  iv.  55,  9 ; 
i.  123,  5;  124,  10;  Yiii.  9,  17).  As  a  feminine  substantive  in  the  plural  it  means 
either  '  activity,'  or,  with  a  supplied  gir,  "lively  voices  "  (sunritanam  giram,  iii.  31, 
18) ;  mtrt  sunritanam  is  TJshas  as  a  stimulator,  or  rather,  leader  (xopw's)  of  joyful 
voices  (of  birds,  etc.) ;  sunrita  Jrm/anti  is  just  the  same.  Professor  Aufrecht  is  of 
opinion  that  the  words  vayor  iva  sunritanam  tidarke,  in  E.V.  i.  113,  18,  should  not 
be  rendered  as  I  have  done  in  p.  190,  above,  but  translated  thus:  "when  fervent 
voices  arise  like  the  rising  of  the  wind  {ortu  voettm  velut  ortu  venti)."     TIdarka  he 

13 


194  EPITHETS,  CHAEACTERISTICS, 

are  of  frequent  occurrence  in  the  hymns,  and  there  are  also  many  others 
to  he  found  there,  such  as  maghom  (the  magnificent),  iMiAaij'a  (the  fortu- 
nate), m-umpsu  (the  ruddy),  ritdvari  (the  righteous),  ritapd  (the  pre- 
server of  right  or  of  order),  ritefd  (born  in  right,  or  order),  ^tichi 
(bright),  hiranyavarna  (gold-hued),  devl  (the  goddess,  or  the  divine), 
amrita  (the  immortal),  ranvasandrik  (of  pleasant  aspect),  sudrisika- 
sandrik  (the  same),  sitpratika  (the  brilliant),  satya&rman  (possessed  of 
real  wealth,  or  renown),  danuchitra  (bringing  brilliant  gifts),  ghritwpra- 
tlkd  (shining  like  butter),  indratamd  (most  similar  to  Indra),  i.  30,  20  ; 
i.  48,  1,  2,  7,  10  ;  i.  92,  6-9,  14,  15  ;  i.  113,  2,  12,  13  ;  i.  123, 
4,  6  ;  i.  134,  4  ;  iii.  61,  2,  5  ;  iv.  55,  9 ;  v.  59,  8 ;  v.  80,  1 ;  vii.  75, 
5;  vii.  77,  2;  vii.  78,  4;  vii.  79,  3;  vii.  81,  1 ;  viii.  62,  16. 

TJshas  is  home  onward  on  a  shining  chariot,  of  massive  construction, 
richly  decorated  and  spontaneously  yoked  {rathena  brihatd, — supeiasd, — 
viivwpiid, — sosuchatd, — -jyotishmatd, — Bvadhayd  y^'yamdnena),  i.  48, 10; 
i.  49,  2;  i.  123,  7;  iii.  61,  2 ;  v.  80,  2;  vii.  75,  6;  vii.  78,  1,  4; 
from  the  distant  east,  i.  92,  1 ;  i.  124,  6.  She  is  also  said  to  arrive  on 
a  hundred  chariots,  i.  48,  7.  She  is  drawn  by  ruddy  horses  {arunebhir 
ahailf),  i.  30,  22;  i.  49,  I;  i.  92,  15;  i.  113,4;  iii.  61,2;  iv.  51,5; 
v.  79,  1  fp. ;  vii.  75,  6,  or  by  cows  or  buUs  of  the  same  colour,  Nighantu 
i.  15;  R.V.  i.  92,  2;  i.  124,  11;  v.  80,  3;  and  traverses  rapidly  a 
distance  of  thirty  yojanas,  i.  123,  8.  Like  a  beautiful  young  woman 
dressed  by  her  mother,  a  richly  decked  dancing  girl,  a  gaily  attired 
wife  appearing  before  her  husband,  or  a  female  rising  resplendent  out 
of  the  bath, — smiling,  and  confiding  in  the  irresistible  power  of  her 
attractions,  she  unveils  her  bosom  to  the  gaze  of  the  beholder,  i.  92, 
4;  i.  123,  10;  i.  124,  4ff.;  v.  80,  4,  5  ;  vi.  64,  2.  She  dispels  the 
darkness,  disclosing  the  treasures  it  had  concealed  ;  she  illuminates  the 
world,  revealing  its  most  distant  extremities.  She  is  the  life  and 
breath  of  all  things,  causing  the  birds  to  fly  forth  from  their  nests, 
visiting  every  house,  and  like  an  active  housewife  arousing  her  house- 
hold, awakening  the  five  races  of  men,  yea  all  creatures,  as  if  from 
death,  and  sending  men  forth  to  the  pursuit  of  their  several  occupations, 

regards  as  derived  from  -ud  and  the  root  ri,  and  as  meaning  "rising,"'  "motion 
upward,"  and  compares  R.V.  iii.  8,  6.  Devayah  viprah  ttdit/artti  vaeham,  "  The  pious 
priest  raises  his  voice ; "  and  vi.  47,  3.  Ayam  me  pitah  udiyartti  vaeham,  "  This 
soma,  when  drunk,  raises  my  utterance."  I  note  that  aunrita  is  invoked  as  a  goddess 
{devi)  in  E.V.  i.  40,  3,  and  x.  141,  2. 


AND  FUNCTIONS  OF  USHAS.  195 

i-  48,  5,  8,  10;  i.  49,  4 ;  i.  92,  11 ;  i.  113,  8,  16 ;  i.  123,  4,  6;  i.  124, 
12;  ii.  34,  12 ;  vii.  76,  1 ;  vii.  79,  1  f.;  vii.  80,  1,  and  rendering  good 
semce  to  the  gods,  by  causing  all  worshippers  to  awake,  and  the  sacrificial 
fires  to  be  kindled,  i.  113,  9.  She  is,  however,  entreated  to  arouse  only 
the  devout  and  liberal  worshipper,  and  to  leave  the  ungodly  niggard 
to  sleep  on  in  unconsciousness,  i.  124,  10;  iv.  51,  3.  She  is  young, 
being  bom  anew  every  day,  and  yet  she  is  old,  nay  immortal,  and 
wears  out  the  lives  of  successive  generations,  which  disappear  one  after 
another,  while  she  continues  undecaying,  i.  92,  9fP. ;  i.  113,  13,  15; 
i-  123,  2;  i.  124,  2 ;  vii.  18,  20. 

The  worshippers,  however,  sometimes  venture  to  take  the  credit  of 
being  more  alert  than  Ushas,  and  of  awaking  her  instead  of  being 
awakened  by  her  {prati  stomair  dbhutsmahi,  iv.  52,  4 ;  vii.  68,  9  ; 
vii.  81,  3 ;  X.  88,  19;  and  this  the  Yasishthas  claim  to  have  been  the 
first  to  do  by  their  hymns,  vii.  80,  1  {prati  stomebhir  ushasam 
VasisMMh  girlhir  vipr&sah  prathamah  abudhran) ;  and  in  one  place 
she  is  solicited  to  make  no  delay,  that  the  sun  may  not  scorch  her 
like  a  thief  or  an  enemy,  v.  79,  9  (vi  uchha  duMtar  Divo  ma  ehvrafh, 
tarmfhah  apah  \  na  it  tvd  stenam  yathd  ripum  tapati  suro  arcMsha). 
She  is  prayed  to  bring  the  gods  to  drink  the  libations  of  Soma,  i. 
48,  12.  Agni  and  the  gods  generally  are  described  as  waking  with 
Ushas  {usharhudhah),  i.  14,  9;  i.  44,  11;  i.  92,  18;  iii.  2,  14;  iv.  6, 
8;  vi.  4,  2;  vi.  15,  1  ;  ix.  84,  4. 

As  we  have  already  seen  from  the  hymns  which  have  been  trans- 
lated, she  is  frequently  asked  to  bring,  or  dawn  (as  in  former  times)  on 
the  worshipper  with,  various  sorts  of  wealth,  children,  slaves,  etc.,  to 
afford  protection,  and  to  prolong  life,  i.  30,  22  ;  i.  48,  1  ff.,  9, 
11,  15;  i.  92,  8,  13 ff.;  iv.  51,  7;  vii.  41,  7;  vii.  75,  2;  vii.  77,  5; 
to  revolve  like  a  wheel  ever  new,  iii.  61,  3;  to  confer  renown  and 
glory  on  the  liberal  benefactors  of  the  poet,  v.  79,  6  f.  (comp.  i.  48,  4) ; 
to  drive  away  sleeplessness  to  Trita  Aptya,  viii.  47,  14-16. 

The  worshippers  in  one  place  ask  that  they  may  obtain  from  her 
riches,  and  stand  to  her  in  the  relation  of  sons  t*  a  mother  (vii.  81, 
4  :  tasyas  fe  ratnahhajah  imahe  vayarh  sydma  mdtw  na  sunavah). 

In  X.  58,  8,  the  souls  of  the  departed  are  said  to  go  to  the  sun  and 
to  Ushas. 


196  METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  TJSHAS. 

Ushas,  as  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  metrical  sketch. 

In  the  following  verses  I  have  attempted  to  reproduce  the  most 
striking  ideas  in  the  hymns  to  Ushas,  which  have  heen  quoted  above. 
It  will  be  seen  on  comparison  that  there  is  little  in  these  lines  of 
which  the  germ  wiU  not  be  found  in  the  originals,  though  some  of  the 
ideas  have  been  expanded  and  modified. 

'   'Hail,  Ushas,  daughter  of  the  sky, 
"Who,  borne  upon  thy  shining  car 
By  ruddy  steeds  from  realms  afar, 
And  ever  lightemng,  drawest  nigh : — 

Thou  sweetly  snulest,  goddess  fair. 
Disclosing  all  thy  youthful  grace. 
Thy  bosom  bright,  thy  radiant  face, 

And  lustre  of  thy  golden  hair ; — 

I   (So  shines  a  fond  and  winning  bride, 
"Who  robes  her  form  in  brilliant  guise. 
And  to  her  lord's  admiring  eyes 
Displays  her  chajms  with  conscious  pride  ; — 

Or  virgin  by  her  mother  decked, 
"Who,  glorying  iu  her  beauty,  shews 
In  every  glance,  her  power  she  knows 

All  eyes  to  fix,  all  hearts  subject; — 

Or  actress,  who  by  skill  in  song 
And  dance,  and  graceful  gestures  Ught, 
And  many-coloured  vestures  bright. 

Enchants  the  eager,  gazing  throng ; — 

Or  maid  who,  wont  her  Hmbs  to  lave 
In  some  cool  stream  among  the  woods, 
"Where  never  vulgar  eye  intrudes. 

Emerges  fairer  from  the  wave) ; — 

But  closely  by  the  amorous  sun 

Pursued,  and  vanquished  in  the  race, 
Thou  soon  art  locked  in  his  embrace, 

And  with  him  blendest  iato  one. 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OP  USHAS.  197 

Fair  TJslias,  though  through,  years  untold 

Thou  hast  lived  on,  yet  thou  art  bom 

Anew  on  each  succeeding  mom, 
And  so  thou  art  both  young  and  old. 

As  in  thy  fated  ceaseless  course 

Thou  risest  on  us  day  by  day, 

Thou  wearest  all  our  lives  away 
With  silent,  ever-wasting,  force. 

Their  round  our.  generations  run : 

The  old  depart,  and  in  their  place 

Springs  ever  up  a  younger  race. 
Whilst  thou,  immortal,  lookest  on. 

All  those  who  watched  for  thee  of  old 

Are  gone,  and  now  't  is  we  who  gaze 

On  thy  approach ;  in  future  days 
Shall  other  men  thy  beams  behold. 

But 't  is  not  thoughts  so  grave  and  sad 

Alone  that  thou  dost  with  thee  bring, 

A  shadow  o'er  our  hearts  to  fling ; — 
Thy  beams  returning  make  us  glad. 

Thy  sister,  sad  and  sombre  Mght 

With  stars  that  in  the  blue  expanse 

Like  sleepless  eyes  mysterious  glance. 
At  thy  approach  is  quenched  ia  light ; — 

And  earthly  forms,  tiU  now  concealed 

Behind  her  veil  of  dusky  hue. 

Once  more  come  sharply  out  to  view. 
By  thine  illuming  glow  revealed. 

Thou  art  the  life  of  aU  that  lives, 

The  breath  of  aU  that  breathes  ;  the  sight 
Of  ihee  makes  every  countenance  bright, 

New  strength  to  every  spirit  gives. 


198  METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  USHAS. 

When  thou  dost  pierce  the  murky  gloom, 
Birds  flutter  forth  from  every  brake, 
AU  sleepers  as  from  death  awake. 

And  men  their  myriad  tasks  resume. 

Some,  prosperous,  wake  in  listless  mood. 
And  others  every  nerve  to  strain 
The  goal  of  power  or  wealth  to  gain. 

Or  what  they  deem  the  highest  good. 

But  some  to  holier  thoughts  aspire. 
In  hymns  the  race  celestial  praise. 
And  light,  on  human  hearths  to  blaze, 

The  heaven-bom  sacrificial  Fire. 

And  not  alone  do  bard  and  priest 

Awake; — ^the  gods  thy  power  confess 
By  starting  into  consciousness 

When  thy  first  rays  suffuse  the  east ; 

And  hasting  downward  from  the  sky. 
They  visit  men  devout  and  good. 
Consume  their  consecrated  food, 

And  all  their  longings  satisfy. 

Bright  goddess,  let  thy  genial  rays 
To  us  bring  stores  of  envied  wealth 
In  Mne  and  steeds,  and  sons,  with  health, 

And  joy  of  heart,  and  length  of  days. 


199 


SECTION  XIII. 

AGNl. 

Agni  is  the  god  of  fire,  the  Ignis  of  the  Latins,'"  the  Ogni  of  the 
Slavonians.  He  is  one  of  the  most  prominent  deities  of  the  Eig-veda, 
as  the  hymns  addresed  to  him  far  exceed  in  numher  those  which  are 
devoted  to  the  celebration  of  any  other  divinity,  with  the  sole  ex- 
ception of  Indra. 

(1)  Sis  functioriB. 

Agni  is  not,  like  the  Greek  Hephaistos,  or  the  Latin  Vulcan, 
the  artificer  of  the  gods  (an  of&ce  which,  as  we  shall  presently 
see,  is  in  the  Veda  assigned  to  Tvashtri),  but  derives  his  principal 
importance  from  his  connection  with  the  ceremonial  of  sacrifice. 
He  is  an  immortal  {amrita,  amwrtya)  i.  44,  6  ;  i.  58,  1 ;  ii.  10, 
1,  2  ;  iii.  2,  11  ;  iii.  3,  1  ;  iii.  11,  2  ;  iii.  27,  6,  7;  vi.  9,  4 ; 
vii.  4,  4  ;  viii.  60,  11  ;  x.  79,  1,  who  has  taken  up  his  abode 
among  mortals  as  their  guest  {fltithi),  i.  44,  4  ;  i.  58,  6;  ii.  4,  1  ; 
iii.  2,  2  ;  iv.  1,  20  ;  v.  1,  8 ;  v.  8.  2  ;  v.  18,  1 ;  vi.  2,  7  ;  vi.  15, 
1,  4;  vii.  8,  4  ;  "viii.  73,  1  ;  x.  1,  6  ;  x.  91,  2  ;  x.  92,  1.  He  is 
the  domestic  priest,  purohita,  ritvij,  hotri,  hrahman,  who  wakes  with 
the  dawn  {usharlUdh),  or  even  before  the  dawn  {ushasah  purohitam) 
i.  1,  1 ;  i.  12,  1 ;  i.  13,  1,  4;  i.  26,  7;  i.  36,  3,  5 ;  i.  44,  7,  12;  i.  45, 
7  ;  i.  58,  1,  6;  i.  60,  4;  i.  68,  4,  (7);  i.  76,  2,  4;  i.  127,  1 ;  i.  141, 
12 ;  i.  149,  4,  6 ;  ii.  5,  1 ;  ii.  6,  6 ;  ii.  9,  1 ;  iii.  7,  9 ;  iii.  10,  2,  7 ; 
iii.  11,  1  ;  iii.  14,  1 ;  iii.  19,  1 ;  iv.  1,  8  ;  v.  11,  2;  v.  26,  7;  vi.  15, 
1,  4,  16;  vi.  16,  1 ;  vii.  7,  5  ;  vii.  10,  5 ;  vii.  11,  1  ;  vii.  16,  5,  12 ; 
viii.  44,  6  ;    viii.  49,  1  ;   ix.  66,  20 ; "»  x.  1,6;    x.  92,  2,  appointed 

3'*  Ou  the  worship  of  flie  among  the  Greeks  and  Romans  see  the  volume  of  M. 
Fiistel  de  Coulanges,  entitled  "  La  Cite  Antique,"  pp.  21  ff. 
31'  In  this  verse  he  is  called  a  rishi,  as  well  as  a  priest,  common  to  the  five  rices 


200  FUNCTIONS  OF  AGNI. 

both  by  men  and  gods,  who  concentrates  in  his  own  person,  and 
exercises  in  a  higher  sense,  all  the  various  sacrificial  ofSces  which  the 
Indian  ritual  assigned  to  a  number  of  different  human  functionaries, 
the  adJwwryu,  hotri,  potri,  neshtri,  praiastri,  etc.  (i.  94,  6;  ii.  1,  2;  ii. 
5,  2  ff. ;  iy.  9,  3,  4 ;  x.  2,  1  {^pipriM  devdn  tiiato  ymishtha  viAvan 
ntun  ritupate  yajeha  |  ye  dawyd^  ritvijaa  tebhw  Agne  tvam  hotrlndm 
asi  dyajishthah  \  "  satiate  and  worship  here  the  longing  gods,  o  most 
youthful  deity,  knowing  the  proper  seasons,  and  along  with  the 
divine  priests,  for  thou,  Agni,  art  the  most  adorable  of  hotris"); 
X.  92,  8-11  {Agnim  hotdram  paribhutamam  matim,  "Agni,  the  wise; 
the  most  eminent  of  hotris."  He  is  a  sage,  the  divinest  among 
sages  {asuro  vipakUtdm,  iii,  3,  4),  intimately  acquainted  with  aU 
the  forms  of  worship,  the  wise  director,  the  successful  accompUsher, 
and  the  protector,  of  all  ceremonies,  who  enables  men  to  serve  the 
gods  in  a  correct  and  acceptable  manner,  in  cases  where  this  would 
be  beyond  their  own  unaided  skill,  i.  1,  4  {Agne  yam  yajnam  adh- 
varam  visvatah  parihhur  asi  J  sa  id  deveshu  gaehliati  \  "Agni,  that 
sacrifice  which  thou  encompassest  on  every  side  goes  to  the  gods"); 
1.  31,  1  {tvam  Agne  prathamo  Angirdh  rishir  devo  devdndm  dbhmah 
iieah  sahhd  \  "Agni,  thou  art  the  first  rishi  Angiras,  a  god,  the 
auspicious  friend  of  gods");  iii.  3,  3  {vidathasya  sddhanam  \  "The 
acoomplisher  of  the  ceremony");  iii,  21,  3  {rishih  h-eshthah  sami- 
dhyase  yajnmya  prdvita  bhava  \  "Thou  art  lighted,  a  most  eminent 
rishi;  protect  the  sacrifice");  iii.  27,  2  {vipakhitam  yeynasya  sdd- 
hanam I  7.  Pwraddd  eti  mdyayd  vidatlidni  prachodayan  |  2.  "The 
sage,  the  acoomplisher  of  the  sacrifice.  7.  He  goes  before,  by  his 
wondrous  power  promoting  the  ceremonies");  vi.  14,  2  {vedhastama^ 
rishih)  ;  vii.  4,  4  {kavir  akavishu  praohetdh  \  "  Wise  among  the  foolish ; 
and  intelligent ") ;  x.  2,  4  {yad  vo  vayam  pramindma  vratdni  vidushdm 
devdh  avidushfardsah  |  Agnis  tad  viivam  a  prindti  vidvdn  yebhir  devdn 
ritubhih  Tcalpaydti  \  5.  Yat  pdkatrd  manasd  dinadahshah  na  yajnasya 
manvate  martydsah  \  Agnis  tad  hotd  kratmid  vijdnan  yajishtho  devdn 
rituio  yajdti  |  4.  "  Agni,  knowing  what  seasons  to  assign  to  the  gods, 
rectifies  all  those  mistakes  which  we  ignorant  men  commit  against 
your  prescriptions,  o  ye  most  wise  gods.  5.  Those  matters  relating  to 
the  sacrifice  which  we  mortals  of  feeble  intellects,  with  our  imperfect 
comprehenBion,   do  not  understand,  may  Agni,  the  venerated  priest 


FtWCTIONS  OF  AGNI.  201 

■who  knows  all  these  points,  adjust,  and  worship  the  gods  at  the  proper 
time");  x.  91,  3  {Agne  havih  Icavyena  asi  viivavit).  To  him  the 
attention  of  the  worshippers  is  turned,  as  men's  eyes  are  to  the  sun, 
V.  1,  4  {Agnim  achha  devayatdm,  manamsi  chakshumshi  wa  surye 
saM  charanti).  He  is  the  father,  king,  ruler,  hanner,  or  outward 
manifestation,'"  and  superintendent  of  sacrifices  and  religious  duties 
{ketwfft  yajnanam  \  pita  ycy'nanam  \  ketwr  adhvaranam,  \  rajanam  adh- 
varasya  \  adliydksJwm  dha/rmanam  imam,  \  lie  yo  vihasyah  devaviteh, 
iii.  3,  3,  4 ;  iii.  10,  4 ;  iii.  11,  2  ;  iv.  3,  1  ;  tI.  2,  3  ;  viii.  43,  24  ; 
X.  1,  5  ;  X.  6,  3).  He  is  also  the  religious  leader  or  priest  of 
the  gods  {sadyo  jato  vi  amimlta  ycynam  Agnir  devanam  ahhavat 
purogah  |  Agnir  devo  devandm  ahhavat  purohitak,  x.  110,  11  ;  x. 
150,  4.  He  is  a  swift  {raghtpatva,^^  x.  6,  4)  messenger,  moving  be- 
tween heaven  and  earth,  commissioned  both  by  gods  "*  and  by  men  to 
maintain  their  mutual  communications,  to  announce  to  the  immortals 
the  hymns,  and  to  convey  to  them  the  oblations,  of  their  worshippers, 
or  to  bring  them  down  from  the  sky  to  the  place  of  sacrifice  (sa  devdn 
a,  iha  vakshati  |  Agnifh  dutam  vrimmahe  |  imam  u  su  tvam  asmakam 
sanim,  gayatraih  navyamsam  Agne  deveshu  pravochah  \  devasas  tva  Varum 
Mitro  Aryama  sam  dutam  pratnam  indhate  \  duto  visam  asi  |  paiir  hi 
adhvaranam  Agne  duto  viiam  asi  |  yad  devanam  mitramakah  purohito 
'ntaro  yasi  dutyam  \  tvam  dutam  aratim  hamywoahaih  deval}  akrinvann 
amritasya  nahhim  \  imam  no  yajnam  amriteshu  dhehi  \  antar  lyase  a/rwha 
yvjano  yashmams  eha  devdn  viiah  a  cha  martdn  |  tvam  Agne  samidhana/fft 
yavishthya  devdh  dutam  ohahrire  hcnya/oahanam  \  tvd0i  vi&ve  sa^'oshasah 
devdso  dutam  akrata  \  tvdm  dutam  Agne  amritam  yuge  yuge  dadhire 


'"  His  father  begot  him  {j'anita  tva  JaJSna)  to  be  the  revelation  and  brilliant 
banner  of  all  sacrifices.  With  the  phrase,  ya«i<o  tvajajana,  compare  the  expressions 
in  X.  20,  9,  also  relating  to  Agni,  and  in  iv.  17,  4,  relating  to  Indra. 

315  Compare  the  roffhiwartcmim  ratham  of  the  As'vins,  E.Y.  viii.  9,  8. 

316  Taitt.  Sanh.  ii.  5,  8,  6.  Agnir  devanam  dutah  asld  XTdcma  Kavyo  'suranam  | 
"Agni  was  the  messenger  of  the  gods  Kavya  Wanas  of  the  aeuras.'"  Ibid.  ii.  5, 
11,  8.  Agnir  devanam  dutah  aaid  Daivyo  'awanam  \  "Agni  was  the  messsenger  of 
the  gods,  Daivya  of  the  Asuras."  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  1,  6.  a  temtmn  Agnir  divyam 
tatana  \  tvam  nas  tantitr  uta  setwr  Agne  \  tvam  pamthah  bhavaai  deiea/yanali  \  tvaya 
Agneprishthamvayamaruhema  \  atha  devaih  sadhamadam  madema  |  "Agni  stretched 
out  the  celestial  bond ;  thou  art  our  bond  and  our  bridge,  o  Agni ;  thou  art  the  path 
leading  to  the  gods.  By  thee  may  we  ascend  to  the  summit  of  heaven,  and  live  in 
hilarity  among  the  gods." 


202  FUNCTIONS  OF  AGNI. 

pdyum  ugra'ih  devasai  cha  martasai  cha  jagrwim  vibhum  viSpatim  namasd 
m  shedire  \  devan  a  sadayad  iha  \  duto  devandm  asi  martyanam  antar 
mahami  eharad  rochmena  yam  tvd  devdh  dadhire  havya/odham  purttspriho 
mdmshdso  yqjatram  \  i.  12,  1,  2,  4,  8 ;  i.  27,  4  ;  i.  36,  3,  4,  5  ;  i.  44,  2, 

3,  5,9,  12;i.  58,  l;i.  74,  4,7;  i.  188, 1 ;  ii.  6,6,7;  ii.  9,2;ii.  10,6; 
iii.  5,  2;  iii.  6,  5;  iii.  9,  8;  iii.  11,  2;  iii.  17,  4;  iii.  21,  1,  5;  iv.  1, 
8;  iv.  2,  3;  iv.  7,  8;  iv.  8,  2,  4 ;  v.  8,  6  ;  v.  21,  3;  vi.  15,  8-10; 
vii.  11,  4;  vii.  16,  4;  vii.  17,  6;  viii.  19,  21 ;  viii.  23,  18,  19;  viii. 
39,  1,  9;  viii.  44,  3;  x.  4,  2 ;  x.  46,  10;  x.  91,  11;  x.  122,  7). 
Being  acquainted  witli  the  innermost  recesses  of  the  sky  (iv.  8,  2.  Sa 
hi  veda  vasu-dhitim  mahan  arodhanam  dwah  \  sa  devdn  d  iha  vakshati  \ 

4.  Sa  hotd  sa  id  u  duiyaffi  ehikitvdn  antar  lyate  |),  he  is  well  fitted  to 
act  as  the  herald  of  men  to  summon  the  gods  to  the  sacrifices  instituted 
in  their  honour.  He  comes  with  them  seated  on  the  same  car  (iii.  4, 
11 ;  vii.  11,1,  a  viivehhih  sarathafn  ydhi  devaih),  or  in  advance  of  them 
(a  devdndm  agraydvd  iha  ydtu  \  x.  70,  2) ;  and  shares  in  the  reverence 
and  adoration  which  they  receive  (i.  36,  4 ;  ii.  2,  1).  He  brings  Yaruna 
to  the  ceremony,  Indra  from  the  sky,  the  Maruts  from  the  air  (x.  70, 
11,  o  Agne  vaha  Farunam  ishtaye  nah  Indram  divo  Maruto  antarikshdt). 
He  makes  the  oblations  fragrant,  x.  15,  12  =  Vaj.  S.  xix.  66  {Team 
Agne  ilito  jdtavedo  avdd  havydni  surdbhini  kritvi).  Without  him 
the  gods  experience  no  satisfaction  (vii.  11,  1,  na  rite  tvad  amritdh 
mddayante).  He  himself  offers  them  worship  (vii.  11,  3  ;  viii.  91, 
16  ;  X.  7,  6).  He  is  sometimes  described  as  the  mouth  and  the 
tongue  through  which  both  gods  and  men  participate  in  the  sacri- 
fices (ii.  1,  13.  tvdm  Agne  dditydsah  dsyam  tvdm  j'ihvdm  iuchayai  cha- 
krire  kme  |  14.  The  Agne  vi^ve  amritdsah  adruhah  dsd  devdh  havir  adanti 
dhutam  I  tvayd  ma/rtdsah  svadante  asutim).  He  is  elsewhere  asked  to 
eat  the  ofierings  himself  (iii.  21,  Iff. ;  iii.  28, 1-6.  Agne  vihi  puroldsam 
ahutam),  and  invited  to  drink  the  soma-juice  (i.  14,  10;  i.  19,  9;  i. 
21,  1,  3.  Visvebhih  somyam  madhu  Agne  Indrena  Vdyund  pila). 

The  51st  hymn  of  the  tenth  book  contains  a  dialogue  between  Agni 
and  the  other  gods,  in  which  they  give  utterance  to  their  desire  that 
he  would  come  forth  from  his  dark  place  of  concealment  in  the  waters 
and  the  plants,  and  seek  to  persuade  him  to  appear  and  convey  to  them 
the  customary  oblations  (verse  5 :  ehi  manw  deva/gwr  yajnakamo  aran- 
kritya  tamasi  ksheshi  Agne  \  iugdn  pathah  krimhi  devaydndn  vaha  hm- 


FUNCTIONS  OF  AGNI.  203 

ydni  sumanasyamanah).  After  he  has  expressed  the  grounds  of  his 
reluctance  and  apprehension  (verses  4,  6),'"  he  is  induced  by  the  pro- 
mise of  long  life  and  a  share  in  the  sacrifice  to  accede  to  their  request 
(verse  6.  Kwrmas  te  ayur  cy'aram  yad  Agne  yatha  yukto  jatmedo  na 
rishyah  \  atha  vahasi  sumanasyamam  hhdgam  develhyo  hmishah  svjata). 
In  the  next  following  hymn  (the  52nd)  Agni  proclaims  himself  the 
master  of  the  ceremonies,  declares  himself  ready  to  obey  the  commands 
of  the  gods,  solicits  a  share  in  the  sacrifice  for  himself,  and  asks  how 
and  by  what  path  he  can  bring  them  the  oblations  (verse  1.  Vikve  devah 
sastana  md  yathd  iha  hotd  vrito  manavai  yan  nishadya  \  pra  me  iruta 
Ihdgadheyam  yathd  vo  yena  pathd  hmyam  vo  vahdni  |  2.  Aham  hotd  ni 
afUdam  yajiydn  viive  ma/ruto  md  Junanti).  Agni  is  the  lord,  protector, 
and  leader  of  the  people,  vikpati,  viidm  gopd,  viSdm  pwraetd  (i.  12,  2 ; 
i.  26,  7  ;  i.  31,  11 ;  i.  96,  4 ;  ii.  1,  8  ;  iii.  11,  5) ;  the  king  or  monarch 
of  men  {rdjd  krishtinam  asi  mdnusMnam  \  rdjdnam  \  samrdj'am  char- 
shamndm  \  vUdm  rajanam  \  i.  59,  5  ;  ii.  1,  8 ;  iii.  10,  1  ;  v.  4,  1  ;  vi. 
7,  1 ;  vii.  8,  1 ;  viii.  43,  24).  He  is  also  the  lord  of  the  house,  grilM- 
pati,  dwelling  in  every  abode  {yahpancha  charshanlr  abhi  ni  shasdda  dame 
dame  kavir  grihapatir  yimd  \  i.  12,  6;  i.  36,  5;  i.  60,  4;  v.  8,  2 ;  vii. 
15,  2).     He  is  a  briUiant  guest  in  every  house ;  dwells  in  every  wood 

'"  Verse  6  is  as  follows :  Agmh  purve  bhrataro  artham  etam  rathivadhvanam  arm 
avarlvuh  \  tasmad  hhiya  Ycfrtma  dieram  ayam  gawo  na  hshepnor  amjejyayah  \  "Agni's 
former  brothers  have  sought  this  goal,  as  a  charioteer  passes  along  a  road.  But 
fearing  this  journey,  o  Vanina,  I  went  to  a  distant  place,  and  trembled  like  a  wild  bull 
which  quakes  at  the  sound  of  the  huntsman's  bowstring."  It  is  clear  from  verse  7, 
that  Agni  means  that  his  brothers  had  never  returned,  and  that  he  fears  a  similar 
fate.  The  following  passage  of  the  Tait.  Sanh.,  ii.  6,  6, 1,  seems  to  be  founded  on  this 
verse :  Agnes  trayo  jyayamao  bhratarah  aaan  \  te  devebhyo  ha/oyam  vahamtah  pramt- 
yanta  |  so  'gnir  abibhed  ittham  vava  sya  artim  arishyati  iti  sa  nilayata  \  so  'pah 
praviiat  \  tain  devatah  praisham  aiehhan  |  torn  matsyah  prabramt  \  tarn  adapad 
"  dhiyadhiya  tva  vadhyasur  yo  mu  prmochah"  iti  |  tasmad  matsyam  dhiyadhiya 
gfmanti  \  saptah  hi  |  tam  anvavindan  |  tarn  abruvann  "  upa  nah  avarttasva  havyam 
no  vaha"  iti  |  so'bramd  "  varam  vrinai  yad  eva  grihttasya  Shutasya  bahihparidhi 
akandat  tan  me  bhratrtrmm  bhSgadheyam  asad"  iti  \  "Agni  had  three  elder  brothers, 
who  died  while  carrying  oblations  to  the  gods.  Agni  feared  lest  he  should  incur  the 
same  fate,  and  accordingly  he  disappeared,  and  entered  into  the  waters.  The  gods 
sought  to  discover  him,  A  fish  pointed  him  out.  Agni  cursed  the  fish, — '  Since 
thou  hast  pointed  me  out,  may  men  slay  thee  whenever  they  will.'  Men  in  conse- 
quence slay  a  fish  at  their  pleasure,  because  it  was  cursed.  (The  gods)  found  Agni, 
and  said  to  him,  '  Come  to  us  and  bring  us  our  oblations.'  He  replied,  '  Let  me  ask 
a  favour ;  let  whatever  part  of  the  presented  oblations  falls  outside  of  the  sacred 
enclosure  be  the  share  of  my  brothers.'  " 


204  BIETHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OP  AGNI. 

like  a  bird ;  friendly  to  mankind,  he  despises  no  man  ;  kindly  disposed 
to  the  people,  he  lives  in  the  midst  of  every  family,  x.  91,  2  («»  Amrka- 
ta&rlr  atithir  grihe  grihe  vane  vane  Uiriye  takvavir  iva  |  janaih  janam 
janyo  natimanyate  viM  a  Tcsheti  vUyo  vUam  viiam).  He  is  a  father, 
mother,  brother,  son,  kinsman,  and  friend  (a  hi  sma  sunave  pita  dpir 
yajati  apaye  sakha  sa}cKye^~mfenyaK~\'1vam~pitd  'si  nas  tvam  vayashrit 
ta/oa  jdmayo  my  am  \  tvam  jamir  jananam  Agne  mitro  asi  priyah  \  sakha 
sakhihhyah  Idyah  \  tvam  Agne  pitaram  ishtibhir  na/rah  tvam  Ihratraya 
iamya  tanurucham  \  tvam  putro  hhcmasi  yas  te  'vidhat  \  pita  mdtd  sadam, 
in  mdnmhdndm  \  Agne  hhrdtah  \  Agnim  manye  pitaram  Agnim  dpim 
Agnim  ihrdtaram  sadam.  it  sakhdyam  \  i.  26,  3 ;  i.  31, 10, 14,  16 ;  i.  75,  4 ; 
i.  161, 1;  ii.  1,  9 ;  vi.  1,  5;  V.  4,  2 ;  viii.  43,  16 ;  viii.  64, 16 ;  x.  7, 3);_and_ 
some  of  his  worshippers  claim  with  him  a  hereditary  friendship  (i."71. 


10.  Ma  no  Agne  sakhyd  pitrydni  pra  marshishthdh).  He  drives  away 
and  destroys  Eakshases  or  Asuras  {Iddhasm  dvisho  rakshaso  amivdh  \ 
pra  Agnwye  visvaiuche  dhiyamdhe  asuraghne  \  Agnih  rakshd0isi  sedhati  \ 
iii.  15,  1;  vii.  13,  1;  vii.  15,  10;  viii.  23,  13;  viii.  43,26;  x.  87,1; 
X.  187,  3).  In  hymn  x.  87,  he  is  invoked  to  protect  the  sacrifice 
(verse  9.  tikshnena  Agne  chakshushd  raksha  y<ynam),  and  to  consume 
the  Eakshases  and  Yatudhanas  with  his  iron  teeth  and  by  the  most 
terrible  manifestations  of  his  fury  (verse_2.  Ayodamahtro  archishd  ydtu- 
dhdndn  upa  spriia  jdtavedah  samiddhah  \  verse  5.  Agne  tvaoham  ydtu- 
dhanasya  hhindhi  himsrd  'ianir  harasd  hantu  enam  \  verse  14.  Fard  iri- 
nlhi  tapasa  ydtudkdnan  pwrd  'gne  rahsho  harasd  irinihi  |). 

(2)  Agni's  births,  and  triple  existence. 

Various,  though  not  necessarily  inconsistent,  accounts  are  given  in 
the  hymns  of  the  birth  of  Agni.  Sometimes  a  divine  origin  is  ascribed 
to  him,  while  at  other  times  his  production,  or  at  least  his  mani- 
festation, is  ascribed  to  the  use  of  the  ordinary  human  appliances. 
Thus  he  is  said  to  have  at  first  existed  potentially  but  not  actually  in 
the  sky,  x.  5,  7  (quoted  above  in  p.  51);  to  have  been  brought  from 
\  the  sky,  or  from  afar,  by  Matari^van  "'  (a  anyam  [Agniml  divo  Mata- 

"8  In  Bohtlingk  and  Rotli's  Lexicon,  s.v.  Mataria'van  is  said  (1)  to  denote  a  diTine 
being,  who,  as  the  messenger  of  Vivasvat,  brings  down  from  heaven  to  the  Bhrigns 
Agni,  who  had  before  been  concealed ;  and  (2)  to  be  a  secret  name  of  Agni ;  and  it 
is  remarked  that  the  word  cannot  be  certainly  shewn  by  any  text  to  be  in  the  Vedio 


BIRTHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI.  205 

riiva  jdbhdra  \  m  j&yamanah  pwrame  vyomcmi  &vir  Agnir  ahhavan  Mdta- 
riivane  |  i.  60,  1 ;  i.  93,  6 ;  i.  143,  2  ;  iii.  5,  10  ;  iii.  9,  5  ;  vi.  8,  4) ; 
to  have  been  generated  by  Indra  between  two  clouds  or  stones  (yo 
asmmor  antar  agnim  jcy'ana,  ii.  12,  3);  to  have  been  generated  by 
Dyaus,  x.  45,  8  {Agnir  amrito  ahhcwad  vayobMr  yad  enafh  Byav/r  janayat 
swetah)  ;  to  be  the  son  of  Dyaus  and  Prithivi,  iii.  2,  2 ;  iii.  25, 1  {Agne 
Dwah  sunwr  asipraehetas  tana  Prithwydh  uta  msvmedah)  ;  x.  1,  2  ;  x. 
2,  7  {yam  tva  Dydvdprithivi  yam  tvd  dpas  Tvashtd  yam  tvd  suja  nimd 
fqfdna);  %.  140,  2;  whom  he  magnified,  or  delighted,  at  [or  by]  his  birth, 
iii.  S, 11  {ubhd  pitard  mahaywnn  ajdyata  Agnir  DySvaprithivl  Ihurwetasd) . 
His  production  is  also  said  to  be  due  to  the  waters  (x.  2,  7;  x.  91,  6),'" 
and  to  Tvashtri  (i.  95,  2  ;  x.  2,  7).  He  is  elsewhere  said  to  have  been 
generated  by  the  Dawns,  vii.  78,  3  ([  Ushaso]  ajijanan  suryam  Yajnam 
Agnim) ;  by  Indra  and  Vishnu,  vii.  99,  4  {^Ind/rdvi»hml\  urum  Yajndya 
ehathathwr  u  hkam  j'anayanta  Suryam  Ushasam  Agnim) ;  generated  or 


hymns,  a  synonyme  of  Vayu.  I  add  some  obserrations  on  tte  same  subject,  which 
had  been  made  at  an  earlier  period  by  Professor  Roth,  in  his  illustrations  of  the 
Nirukta,  p.  112,  where  he  is  elucidating  R.V.  vi.  8,  4  ("  Mataris'van,  the  messenger 
of  Vivasvat,  brought  Agni  Vai^vanara  from  afar")  :  " The  explanation  of  Matarii- 
van  as  Vayu"  (which  is  giyen  by  Yaska)  "cannot  be  justified  by  the  Vedic  texts, 
and  rests  only  upon  the  etymology  of  the  root  s'vas.  The  numerous  passages  where 
the  word  is  mentioned  in  the  Rig-veda  exhibit  it  in  two  senses.  Sometimes  it  denotes 
Agni  himself,  as  in  the  texts  i.  96,  3,  4 ;  iii.  29,  4  (11  ?) ;  jl.  114,  1,  etc. ;  at  other 
times,  the  being  who,  as  another  Prometheus,  fetches  down  from  heaven,  from  the 
gods,  the  fire  which  had  vanished  from  the  earth,  and  brings  it  to  the  Bhrigus, 
i.  60,  1 ;  i.  93,  6 ;  iii.  2,  13 ;  iii.  5,  10  ;  iii.  9,  5.  To  think  of  this  bringer  of  fire 
as  a  man,  as  a  sage  of  antiquity,  who  had  laid  hold  of  the  lightning,  and  placed  it 
on  the  altar  and  the  hearth,  is  forbidden  by  those  texts  which  speak  of  him  as  bring- 
ing it  from  heaven,  not  to  mention  other  grounds.  As  Prometheus  belongs  to  the 
superhuman  class  of  Titans,  and  is  only  by  this  means  enabled  to  fetch  down  the 
spark  from  heaven,  so  must  Matari^van  be  reckoned  as  belonging  to  those  races  of 
demigods,  who,  in  the  Vedic  legends,  are  sometimes  represented  as  living  in  the 
society  of  the  gods,  and  sometimes  as  dwelling  upon  earth.  As  he  brings  the  fire  to 
the  Bhrigus,  it  is  said  of  these  last,  that  they  have  communicated  fire  to  men  {e.g.,  in 
i,  58,  6),  and  Agni  is  called  the  son  of  Bhrigu  {Bhrigavana).  Matarisvan  also 
must  be  reckoned  as  belonging  to  this  half-divine  race."  .  ..."  It  may  also  be  men- 
tioned that  the  same  ftinction  of  bringing  down  fire  is  ascribed  in  one  text  (vi.  16, 
13)  to  Atharvan,  whose  name  is  connected  with  fire,  like  that  of  Matarisvan ;  and  also 
that  the  sisters  of  Atharvan  are  called  Matarisvaris  in  x.  120,  9."  See  my  article 
on  Mann  in  vol.  xx.  of  the  Journ.  R.A.8.,  p.  416,  note.  In  one  place  (vii.  16,  4) 
Agni  is  called  the  falcon  of  the  sky  {divah  dyenaya). 

'"  A.V.   ii    33,   1.    Siramyavartmh  suehayah  pavakah  yasu  Jatah  Savita  yasu 
Agnilf  1  yah  Agnim  garbham  dadhire  atmarnas  tah  nah  apah  sain  syonalf  bhavcmtu. 


206  BIRTHS  AND  TEIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  A6NI. 

fashioned  by  the  gods,  vi.  7,  1  f.  {janayanta  devah) ;  viii.  91,  17  {twRi 
tva  'jananta  matarah  kanm  devdso  angirah) ;  x.  46,  9  {devas  iatahhur 
manave  yajatram) ;  as  a  light  to  the  Arya,  i.  59,  2  {tafh,  tva  devaso  jana- 
yanta devam  vaiivana/ra  jyotir  id  aryaya)  ;  or  placed  by  the  gods  among 
the  descendants  of  Manu,  i.  36,  10 ;  ii.  4,  3  {Agnim  devdso  mdniisMshu 
vihshu  priyam  dhuh  ksheshyar^to  na  mitram) ;  vi.  16,  1 ;  viii.  73,  2. 
Tet  although  the  son,  he  is  also  the  father  of  the  gods,  i.  69,  1 
{bhuvo  devdndm  pita  putrah  san).  In  viii.  19,  33,  the  superiority  of 
the  Fire-god  to  all  other  fires  is  shewn  by  their  being  declared  to  be 
dependent  on  him  like  branches  of  a  tree  {yasya  te  Agne  anye  agnayah 
.  upakshito  vayah  iva)  ;  vii.  1,  14  («a  id  Agnir  agnln  ati  asti  anydn). 
I  Agni  is  in  some  passages  represented  as  having  a  triple  existence,  by 
which  may  be  intended  his  threefold  manifestations,  as  the  sun  in 
heaven,  as  lightning  in  the  atmosphere,  and  as  ordinary  fire  in  the 
earth,  although  the  three  appearances  are  elsewhere  otherwise  explained. 
In  X.  88,  we  have  the  following  verses : 

6{=  Mr.  vii.  27).  Murdha  hJvwvo  hhmati  nalctam  Agnis  tatah  Suryo 
jdyate  prdtar  wdyan  |  8.  Suhtaodlcam  prathamam  ad  id  Agnim  dd  id 
havir  ajanayanta  devah  \  sa  eshdm  yajno  ablmvat  tanupds  tarn  Dyaur 
veda  tarn  Prithivl  tarn  dpah  \  10  (=  Nir.  vii.  28).  Stomena  hi  divi 
devdso  Agnim  ajijanan  iahtihhih  rodasiprdm  \  tarn  u  alcrinvan  tredhd 
bkuve  ham  sa  oshadhih  paohati  viivarupdh  \  11  (=  Mr.  vii.  29).  Taded 
enam  adadhur  yajniydso  divi  devdh  Suryam  dditeyam  \  yadd  oharishnu 
mithundv  abhutdm  dd  it  prapasyan  Ihuvandni  viivd  \ 

"  6.  Agni  is  by  night  the  head  of  the  earth :  then  he  is  bom  as 
the  Sun  rising  in  the  morning.''^''  8.  The  gods  produced  first  the  hymn, 
then  Agni,  then  the  oblation.  He  was  their  protecting  sacrifice  :  him 
Dyaus  knows,  him  Prithivl,  him  the  Waters.  10.  "With  a  hymn  by  their 
powers  the  gods  generated  Agni  who  fills  the  worlds :  they  formed  him 
for  a  threefold  existence:  he  ripens  plants  of  every  kind.     11.  When 

S20  It  appears  from  Professor  Aufreoht's  abstract  of  the  contents  of  the  Matsya- 
purana  that,  in  section  115,  the  sun  is  said  to  enter  into  Agni  during  the  night,  and 
Agni  into  the  sun  by  day.  Catalogne  of  Bodl.  Sanskrit  MSS.,  p.  41«.  The  Ait. 
Br.  viii.  28,  says  :  adityo  vai  astam  ymm Agnim a/mvpra/iiiiati  \  so 'ntardtayate  \  .,,. 
Agnir  vai  udvan  Vayum  anuprcmis'ati  \  so  'ntardhtyate  |  . .  .  .  Vayor  Agnir  jayate 
'pranad  hi  balad  mathymmno  'dhijayate  \  ....  Agner  vai  adityo  jayate  \  "  The  sun, 
•when  setting,  enters  into  Agni  and  disappears  ....  Agni,  when  blowing  upwards, 
enters  Vayu,  and  disappears  ....  Agni  is  produced  from  Vayu,  for  when  attrition 
is  taking  place,  he  is  born  from  breath  as  force.    The  sun  is  produced  from  Agni." 


BIRTHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI.  207 

the  adorable  gods  placed  him,  Surya  the  son  of  Aditi,  in  the  sky,  when 
the  moving  twins  came  into  being,  then  they  (the  gods)  beheld  all 
creatures." 

According  to  Taska  (Nir.  vii.  27)  it  is  intended  in  Terse  6  to  repre- 
sent the  sun  as  identical  with  Agni  {"iatah  suryo  jayate prdta/r  udyan" 
sa  eva).  The  same  writer  tells  us  (Nir.  vii.  28)  that  according  to  his 
predecessor  S'akapuni  the  threefold  existence  of  Agni,  referred  to  in 
verse  8,  is  his  abode  on  earth,  in  the  atmosphere,  and  in  heaven 
("  tredhd"  hhavaya  " prithivydm  antarikshe  divi"  iti  S'akapunih),  and 
adds  that  a  Brahmana  declares  his  third  manifestation  to  be  the  Sun 
{^" yad  asya  divi  tritlyam  tad  asav  ddityah"  iti  hi  hrdhmamm).  The 
constantly  moving  twins,  mentioned  in  verse  11,  are  Ushas  and  the 
Sun  according  to  Yaska  (Nir.  vii.  29.  Sarvadd  sahaohdrindv  Ushdi  oha 
Adityai  oha).  Agni  would  thus  be  identified  not  only  with  Surya  the 
celestial,  but  with  Indra  or  Vayu,  the  aerial  or  atmospheric  deity, 
according  to  passages  of  the  Nirukta  vii.  5,  already  quoted  in  p.  8 ; 
and  with  Vishnu,  if  we  adopt  the  interpretation  of  that  deity's  three 
steps  given  by  S'akapuni  in  Nir.  xii.  19,  as  expounded  by  the  commen- 
tator Durgacharya,  viz.  that  Vishnu  abides  on  earth  as  terrestrial  fire, 
in  the  atmosphere  in  the  form  of  lightning,  and  in  the  sky  as  the  Sun 
{"Prithivydm  antarikshe  divi"  iti  8'akapunih  \  pdrthivo  'gnir  hhutva 
prithivydm  yat  kinchid  asti  tad  vikramate  tad  adhitishthati  \  antarikshe 
vaidyutdmand  divi  Surydtmand)."'^  In  R.V.  x.  45, 1,  =  Vaj.  S.  xii.  18, 
(see  also  verse  2)  a  threefold  origin  is  ascribed  to  Agni,  the  first  from  the 
heaven,  the  second  from  us  (i.e.  apparently  from  the  earth),  and  the  third 
from  the  waters,  which  may  mean  the  atmosphere  "'  {Divas  pari pratha- 
mamj'qfne  Agnir  asmad  dmtlyam  pari  jdtaveddh  |  tritlyam  apsu).^'^  The 
same  three  abodes  of  Agni  are  perhaps  referred  to  '**  in  x.  56,  1  =  S.V. 
i.  65  {ida'ni  te  ekam  pa/rah  u  te  ekam  tritiyena  jyotishd  sam  visasva).  In  iii. 
26,  7  (=Vaj.S.  xviii.  66),  he  is  called  arkas  tridhdtuh,  a  threefold  light, ^'^ 

32'  Quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  56. 

522  See  above,  p.  39,  note  73.     See  Coram,  on  Vaj.  S.  xii.  18. 

^'5  A.V.  xii.  1,  20.  Agnir  divah  a  tapati  Agner  devaaya  uru  cmtariTesham  \  Agnim 
martaaah  indhate  hmymaham  ghritapriyam  \  "  Agni  glows  from  the  sky ;  to  Agni 
belongs  the  broad  air  ;  men  kindle  Agni,  the  bearer  of  oblations,  the  lover  of  butter." 
Compare  A.V.  xiii.  3,  21,  and  xviii.  i,  11. 

321  So  the  Scholiast  on  the  Sama-veda  understands  the  verse,  as  I  learn  &om 
Professor  Benfey's  note  to  his  translation,  p.  216. 

S25  Compare  A.V.  viii.  39,  9. 


208  BIETHS  AlfD  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OP  AGNI. 

in  V.  4,  8  trishadhastha  (according  to  Sayana=  trishu  divyddishu  sthdneshu 
sthita),  occupying  three  abodes,  and  in  viii.  39,  8  tripasthya,  having 
three  homes.  In  i.  95,  3,  he  is  said  to  have  three  births,  one  in  the 
ocean,  another  in  the  sky,  and  a  third  in  the  -waters  {trini  jana  pari- 
hhushanti  asya  samudre  ekam  divi  eham  apsu),  which  Sayana  understands 
1st  of  the  submarine  fire  (vadmanala),  2nd  of  the  sun,  and  3rd  of  the 
lightning.  He  is  elsewhere  called  dvijanman,  having  two  births,  i.  60, 
1 ;  i.  140,' 2;  i.  149,  2,  3,  which  Sayana  explains  either  as  born  of 
the  Heaven  and  Earth,  or  from  two  sticks,  or  because  he  has  one  birth 
from  the  sticks  and  a  second  when  he  is  formally  consecrated  ;  but  is 
said  in  one  of  these  passages  to  dwell  in  the  three  lights  {abhi  .  .  .  trt 
rochandni  .  .  .  asthat). 

In  ii.  9,  3,  two  places  of  birth  only  are  mentioned — an  upper 
{parame  janman),  and  a  lower  [ava/re  sadastke) — which  Sayana  inter- 
prets of  the  sky  and  the  atmosphere;  and  in  viii.  43,  28,  in  like 
manner,  only  two  are  alluded  to,  the  celestial,  and  that  in  the  waters 
{yad  Agne  divijah  asi  apsujah  va). 

In  X.  91,  6,  as  we  have  already  seen,  his  generation  is  ascribed  only 
to  the  waters,  the  mothers.     (Compare  iii.  1,  3 ;  iii.  9,  4.) 

In  A.V.  iv.  39,  2,  the  earth  is  said  to  be  a  cow,  and  Agni  her  calf 
{Prithivi  dhenus  tasydh  Agnvr  vaUaK).     In  verses  4  and  6,  Vayu  is 
said  to  be  the  calf  of  the  air,  and  Surya  of  the  sky. 
\     In  different  passages  the  process  of  friction,™  by  which  the  god  is 

32'  See  Aitareya  Brahmana,  i.  16,  and  Professor  Hang's  translation,  pp.  35  ff.  I 
add  here  a  sentence  or  two  from  this  work  (Ait.  Br.  i.  16)  to  illustrate  what  the  texts 
above  quoted  say  of  the  power  of  Agni  to  hallow  all  sacrifices,  although  in  the  present 
case  a  special  rite  is  referred  to :  sa  esha  svargya  ahutir  yad  Agnyahutih  \  yadi  ha 
vai  apy  ahrahmanokto  yadi  dwruktokto  yajate  atha  ha  esha  ahutir  gaohhaty  eva  devan 
na  papmana  samsrijyate  \  "  The  Agni  oblation  is  that  which  conducts  to  heaven. 
Even  if  a  man  who  is  called  a  no-Brahman,  or  a  person  of  bad  reputation,  perform  it, 
stUl  this  oblation  goes  to  the  gods,  and  is  unaffected  by  the  sin  (of  the  performer)." 
See  Professor  Haug's  translation,  p.  38,  note  17.  The  S'atapatha  Bramana,  ii.  3,  3, 1, 
relates  that  Agni,  when  created  by  Prajapati,  began  to  burn  everything,  and  threw 
the  world  into  confusion.  Thereupon  the  creatures  who  then  existed  sought  to  crush 
him.  Not  being  able  to  bear  this,  he  came  to  a  man  and  said,  "I  cannot  endure 
this ;  let  me  enter  into  thee.  Having  generated  me,  nurse  me  ;  and  if  thou  wilt  do 
this  for  me  in  this  world,  I  will  do  the  same  for  thee  in  the  next.  The  man  agreed 
(sa  yatra  Agnim  aasrije  sa  idam  jatah  sarvam  eva  dagdhxim  dadhre  |  ity  eva  avilam 
eva  I  tSh  yaa  tarhi  prajah  asm  tah  ha  enam  sampeshtum  dadhrire  |  so  'titihshama- 
nah  purmham  eva  abhyej/aya  |  2.  Sa  ha  tmacha  "  na  vai  aham  idam  titikshe  hanta 
tva  pra/oiiani  \  torn  ma  janayitva  bibhrihi  \  sa  yathaiva  mam  tvam  aamin  hkejama- 


BIETHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI.  209 

daily  generated  by  his  worshippers,  is  described  or  alluded  to.  In 
iii.  29,  Iff.,  it  is  said :  astldam  adhimanthanam  asti  prajananaM  Jcri- 
tam  I  etdm  vtspatmm  dbhara  Agnim  manlhdma  purvathd  \  2.  (=S.V. 
i.  79)  Aranyor  nihito  jatavedah  garlhah  iva  sudhito  garhhinishu  \  dive 
dive  zdyo  jdgrivadbhir  havishmadhhir  manushyebhir  Agnih  \  3.  (=Vaj.  S, 
xxxiv.  14)  Uttdndyam  ava  hhara  chikitedn  sadyak  pravltd  vrishanaM 
jajdna  \  "This  process  of  friction,  of  generation,  has  begun;  bring  this 
mistress  of  the  people  (the  lower  arani,  or  wood  for  friction)  ;  let  us  rub 
out  Agni  as  heretofore.'^'    2.  This  god  is  deposited  in  the  two  pieces  of 

yitva  bharishyasi  evam  eva  ahaih  tvam  amushmin  lo/ce  janayitva  bharishyami "  iti  | 
"tatha  "  iti  tamjamayitva  ahhihhah).  Herodotus,  iii.  16,  tells  us  what  the  Egyptians 
thought  of  Agni :  hlyv-nTloiffi  Se  yei/tJ^ttitrrai  r6  irvp  Bripiov  elvai  efi}l/uxov,  irdvTa  5i 
avrh  KaT^ffQieiv  t6:  irep  &v  \d^,  irKtia'Bev  &6  aurh  t^s  ^oprjs  ffuyatrodyfjfrKeiv  t^J 
KaTe(r6iofi^i/(p, 

'^'  Hence,  perhaps,  it  is  that  he  is  called  dvi-m5ta,  born  of  two  parents  (i.  31,  2). 
As  regards  dvi-janma  having  a  double  birth  (i.  60,  1 ;  i.  140,  2  ;  i.  149,  4,  5,)  see 
above.  He  is  also  called  bhurijanma,  having  many  births  (x.  5,  1).  In  11. V.  i.  95,  2, 
he  is  said  to  be  produced  by  the  ten  young  women,  i.e.  the  ten  fingers  (<?a«a  imam 
tvashtur  janayanta  garbhmn  atandraso  yuvatayah).  See  Eoth,  Illustrations  of 
Nirukta,  p.  120 ;  Benfey's  Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  510 ;  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.vv. 
tvashtri  and  yimati.  In  iii.  29,  3,  he  is  called  the  son  of  115,  whatever  sense  we 
ascribe  to  this  word.  In  regard  to  the  persons  or  families  by  whom  the  sacrificial 
fire  is  supposed  to  have  been  first  kindled,  and  the  rites  of  Aryan  worship  introduced, 
viz.,  Manu,  Angiras,  Bhrigu,  Atharvan,  Dadhyanch,  etc.,  see  my  paper  on  "Mann, 
the  progenitor  of  the  Aryau  Indians,"  in  vol.  xx.  Journ.  11  A.S.,  pp.  410-416.  I 
subjoin  some  of  the  passages  there  quoted:  i.  36,  19.  Ni  tvam  Agne  manur  dadhe 
jyotir  janaya  sasvate  \  "  Manu  has  placed  thee  (here)  a  light  to  all  (generations  of) 
men."  vii.  2,  3.  Manushvad  Agnim  Manuna  samiddham  sam  adhvaraya  sadam  in 
mahema  \  "  Let  us,  like  Manu,  ever  attract  to  the  sacrifice  Agni,  who  was  kindled  by 
Manu."  i.  63,  7.  Tebhyo  hotram  pratkamam  ayeje  Manur  aamiddhdgnir  manaaa 
sapta  hotribhik,  \  te  Adityah  abhayaih  iarma  yachhata  |  "  0  ye  Adityas,  to  whom 
Manu,  when  he  had  lighted  Agni,  presented,  in  company  with  seven  hotrf  priests, 
with  his  heart,  the  first  oblation,  bestow  on  us  secure  protection."  x.  69,  3.  Yat  te 
Mdnu/r  yad  anikam  Sumitrah  sarmdhe  Agne  tad  idaih  navfyah  \  "  That  lustre  of 
thine,  o  Agni,  which  Manu,  which  Sumitra  kindled,  is  the  same  which  is  now 
renewed."  viii.  43,  13.  Uta  tva  Shrigtmat  suehe  Manushvad  Agne  ahuta  \  Angiraa- 
vad  havamahe  \  "  Like  Bhrigu,  like  Manush,  like  Angiras,  we  invoke  thee  who  hast 
been  summoned  to  blaze."  vi.  16,  13.  Tvam  Agne  pushlcarad  adhi  Atharva  nir 
amanthata  |  14.  Tam  u  tva  Dadhyann  rishih putrajf  Idhe  Atharvanali  j  13.  "Agni, 
Atharvan  drew  thee  forth  from  the  lotus  leaf.  14.  Thee,  Dadhyanch,  the  son  of 
Atharvan,  kindled."  x.  21,  6.  Agnirjato  Athanana  vidad  visvani  kavya  |  bhtmad 
ditto  Vivasvatah  \  "  Agni,  produced  by  Atharvan,  knows  all  sciences.  He  has  be- 
come the  messenger  of  Vivasvat."  i.  58,  6.  Dadkush.  tva  Bhrigam  manmheshu  a  ] 
"The  Bhrigus  have  placed  thee  among  men."  i.  46,  2.  Imam  vidhanto  apam 
sadasthe  pasum  na  nashtam  padair  anu  gman  \  guha  chatantam  uHjo  namobhir 
ichhanto  dhirah  Shrigavo  avindan  |  "Worshipping,  and  desiring  him  vrith  obeisances, 

14 


210  BIRTHS  AND  TEIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  A6NI. 

wood,  as  the  emteyo  in  pregnaiit  women.  Agni  is  daily  to  be  lauded  by 
men  bringing  oblations  and  awaking  (early).  3.  Skilled  [in  the  process], 
•bring  [the  upper  piece  of  wood]  into  contact  with  the  lower,  lying 
recumbent :  being  impregnated,  she  speedUy  brings  forth  the  vigorous 
(Agni)."  ="'  Compare  R.V.  i.  68,  2,  where  it  is  noticed  as  remarkable 
that  a  living  being  should  spring  out  of  dry  wood  {iushkad  yai  dem 

ijivo  janisMMh);  iii.  23,  2,  3 ;  vii.  1,  1 ;  x.  49,  15  ;  x.  7,  5.  He  is 
produced  from  the  two  sticks  as  a  new-born  infant,  v.  9,  3  {uta  sma 
yafh  Usum  yatM  navam  jani'shfha  arani);  viii.  23,  25  {sitnurh  vcmm- 
'patinam).  Strange  to  say,  cries  the  poet,  addressing  himself  to  both 
worlds,  the  child,  as  soon  as  bom,  begins  with  unnatural  voracity  to 
consume  his  parents,  and  is  altogether  beyond  his  mortal  worshipper's 
comprehension,  x.  79,  4  {tad  vdm  riiam  rodasl  prabrmlmi  jayamano 
matara  gwrbho  atti  |  nSham  devasyattiwrtyai  ehiketa).  But  when  born 
he  is  like  the  wriggling  brood  of  serpents,  difficult  to  catch,  v.  9,  4 
{uta  sma  durgribMyase  putro  na  hoary-anam).  Wonderful  is  his  growth, 
and  his  immediate  activity  as  a  messenger,  seeing  he  is  born  of  a 
mother  who  cannot  suckle  him,  x.  115,  1  {ehitraJp  it  Mios  tarumsya 
vakshatho  na  yo  matarav  apyeti  dhatave  j  anudhah  yadi  jijanad  adha 
cha  nu  vavalcsha  sadya  malii  dutyam  cha/ran);  but  he  is  nourished  and 
developed  by  the  oblations  of  clarified  butter  which  are  poured  into 
his  mouth,  and  which  he  consumes,  iii.  21,  1  {stohandm  agne  medaso 
ghritasya  hotah  prdsdna  (  "Agni,  invoker  of  the  gods,  eat  these 
portions  of  fat  and  butter;"  see  also  verses  2  and  3);  v.  11,  3 
{ghritena  tva  avardhayan)  ;  v.  14,  6  ;  viii.  39,  3  {Agne  manmam 
^tubhyqm  ham  ghritam  na  j'uhve  ctsmi);  viii.  43,  10,  22;  x.  69,  1  f. ; 
X.  118,  4,  6,  and  A.V.  i.  7,  2  {Agne  tailasya  prasana). 

In  iii.  26,  7,  he  himself  exclaims  "  butter  is  my  eye"  {ghritam  me 
'  ehakshuh). 

the  wise  and  longing  Bhrigus  hare  followed  him  with  their  steps,  like  a  lost  animal, 
and  have  found  him  concealed  in  the  receptacle  of  the  waters."  In  viii.  23,  17. 
Kavya  Us'anas  is  said  to  have  established  Agni  to  he  a  priest  for  men  ( Usarid  Zavyat 
tva  ni  hotaram  asaddyat  \  ayajim  tva  manavejatavcdasam). 

32S  The  ancient  Indians  regarded  the  upper  piece  of  wood  as  the  male,-and ;  the 
lower  as  the  female,  factors  in  the  generation  of  Agni.  See  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work, 
p.  46,  note  52. 


EPITHETS  AND  CHAEACTEEIgTICS  OF  ^GNI.  211 

(3)  Hi?  epitjiets  and  cha/raeteristies. 

His  epithets  are  various,  and  for  the  most  part  descriptive  of  his 
physical  characteristics.  He  is  sarpirdsuti,  ghritdnna,  hutter-fed  (ii. 
7,  6 ;  vii.  3,  1  ;  x.  69,  2) ;  ghrita-nirnih,  hutter-formed  (iii.  17,  1 ; 
iii.  27,  6;  x.  122,  2);  ghrita-keka,  butter-haired  (viii.  49,  2);  ghrita- 
.prishtha,  butter-backed  (v.  4,  3;  v.  37,  1;  vii.  2,  4;  x.  122,  4); 
ghritapratika,  gleaming  vrith  butter  (iii.  1,  18;  v.  11,  1 ;  x.  21,  7); 
ghrita-yoni,  issuing  from  butter  (v.  8,  6,  compare  ii.  3,  11);  drvanna, 
fed  by  wood  (ii.  7,  6) ;  dhuma-ketu,  having  smoke  for  his  mark,  signal, 
or  ensign  (i.  27,  11 ;  i.  44,  3 ;  i.  94,  10 ;  v.  11,  3;  viii.  43,  4;  viii. 
44,  10;  X.  4,  5  ;  X.  12,  2)  ;  he  sends  up  his  smoke  like  a  piUar  to  the 
sky,  iv.  6,  2  {metd  iva  dhumafy  stabhayad  upa  dyam) ;  vii.  2.  1  {.upa 
sprisa  divyam  sdnu  stupaih)  ;  vii.  3,  3 ;  vii.  16,  3  {ud  dhUmdso 
arushaso  divisprisah  [asfhuK] ;  his  smoke  is  waving,  his  flame  cannot 
be  seized,  viii.  23,  1  {charishnudhumam  agribhltaSocMsham) ;  he  is 
driven  by  the  wind,  and  rushes  through  the  woods  like  a  bull  lording 
it  over  a  herd  of  cows,  i.  58,  4,  5  {vane  a  vdtachodito  yuthe  na  sdhodn 
ava  vdti  vafnsagah) ;  i.  65,  8.  He  is  a  destroyer  of  darkness,  i.'140,  1 
{tamohan),  and  sees  through  the  gloom  of  the  night,  i.  94,  7  {rdtryah 
chid  andho  ati  deva  pa^yasi).  The  world,  which  had  been  swallowed  up 
and  enveloped  in  darkness,  and  the  heavens,  are  manifested  at  his 
appearance,  and  the  gods,  the  sky,  the  earth,  the  waters,  the  plants 
rejoice  in  his  friendship,  x.  88,  2  {girnam  bhuvanam  tamasd  ^paguljw/m 
avih  svar  abhavaj'jdte  Agnau  \  tasya  devdh  prithivl  dyaur  utdpo  arana- 
yann  oshadhih  sakhye  asya).  He  is  ehitra-bhdnu,  ehitra-^oehih,  of  bril- 
liant lustre  or  blaze  (i.  27,  6 ;  ii.  10,  2 ;  v.  26,  2 ;  vi.  10,  3 ;  vii.  9, 
3 ;  vii.  12,  1  ;  viii.  19,  2),  urdhva-hchis,  upward-flaming  (vi.  dS,  2), 
a^iochih,  bright  -  flaming  (vii.  15,  10;  viii.  23,  20),  pdvak^- 
:,'^'  with  clear  flames  (viii.  43,  31),  iukra-varna,  imhi-varngt, 
bright  coloured  (i.  140,  1 ;   v.  2,  3),  soehishkesfi,  with  blading  hair 

'iS'  Agni  is  also  styled  s'lraiochis  in  viii:  60,  10  ( =  S.V.  ii.  904),  14  ( =S.V.  i.  49), 
and  s'lra  in  viii.  43,  31.  On  the  last  placSe  Sayana  explains  iira  as  sleeping  or  lying 
in  the  sacrifices  (j/ajneshu  sayanayaiilam).  On  viii.  60,  10,  he  makes  the  compound 
■word  =  aiana-s'ila-jvalam,  "  he  -whose  flame  pervades."  On  the  14th  verse  he  takes 
it  as  _=  sayana-svabhava-roehishkam,  "he  whose  brilliance  has  the  character  of  lying 
or  sleeping."  In  both  places  Professor  Bfenfey  renders  it  "  gleaming  like  lightning." 
Professor  Both,  Illnstr.  of  Kir.,  p.  42,  thinks  iira  Bay  mean  "  piercing." ' 


212  EPITHETS  AND  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  AGNI. 

(i.  45,  6;  iii.  14,  1;  iii.  17,  1;  iii.  27,  4;  v.  8,  2;  v.  41,  10), 
hari-keSa/jwii'h  tawny  hair  (iii.  2,  13),  golden-formed  (iv.  3,  1;  x. 
20,  9,  Mranya-rupam  janita  jajana),  and  hiri-imairu,  with  golden 
beard  (v.  7,  7).  He  carries  sharp  weapons,  tigmaf^eti,  tigmabhrishfi 
(iv.  4,  4;  iv.  5,  3),  he  has  sharp  teeth,  tigmajamlha  (i.  79,  6  ;  i.  143, 
5;  iv.  5,  4;  iv.  15,  6;  viii.  19,  22),  burning  teeth,  tapurjambJia 
(i.  58,  5;  viii.  23,  4),  brilliant  teeth,  Suohidant  (v.  7,  7),  golden  teeth, 
hwanyadant  (v.  2,  3),  iron  grinders,  ayodamahtra  (x.  87,  2),  and  sharp 
and  consuming  jaws  (viii.  49,  13 ;  x.  79,  1  {tigmah  asya  hanavah  | 
nana  hanu  vihhrite  sum  bharete  asinvati  hapsati  Ihuri  attah).  Accord- 
ing to  one  passage,  he  is  footless  and  headless  {apad  asirsha,  iv.  1,  11), 
and  yet  he  is  elsewhere  said  to  have  a  burning  head,  tapurmurdha 
(vii.  3,  1),  three  heads  and  seven  rays,  trimurdhunam  saptarasmim 
(i.  146,  1;  ii.  5,  2),  to  be  four-eyed,  ohatwrahsha  (i.  31,  13),  thousand- 
eyed,  sahasrahsha  (i.  79,  12),  and  thousand-horned,  sahasrasringa 
(v.  1,  8).™  He  is  hrishnddhvan,  krishmva/rttani,  hrishna-pavi,  i.e.  his 
path  and  his  wheels  are  marked  by  blackness  (ii.  4,  6 ;  vi.  10,  4 ;  vii. 
8,  2;  viii.  23,  19);  he  envelopes  the  woods,  consumes  and  blackens 
them  Vith  his  tongue  (i.  143,  5;  v.  41,  10;  vi.  60,  10,  arcMsha  vana 
vihd  parishvaj'at  \  hrishnd  Icwroti  jihoaya) ;  x.  79,  2,  minvann  atti 
jihvayd  vandni) ;  he  is  all-devouring,  visvad  (viii.  44,  26) ;  driven  by 
the  wind,  he  invades  the  forests,  and  shears  the  hairs  of  the  earth, 
i.  65,  4  {ibhy&n  na  raja  vandni  atti  |  yad  vdtajuto  vand  vi  asthdd  Agnir 
ha  ddti  romd  pritkivydh),  like  a  barber  shaving  a  beard,  x.  142,  4 
(yddd  te  vdto  anuvdti  iocMr  vapteva  smasru  vapasi  pra  hhuma).  He 
causes  terror,  like  an  army  let  loose,  i.  66,  8  {seneva  srishta  amam 
dadhdti) ;  i.  143,  5 ;  x.  142,  4  {yad  udvato  nivato  ydsi  hapsat  prithag 
eshi  pragardhimva  send).  His  flames  roar  like  the  waves  of  the  sea, 
i.  44,  12  {yad  devdndm  mitramahah  .purohitao  antaro  ydsi  duty  am  \ 
sindhor  iva  prasva/nitdsah  urmayo  Agner  Ihrajante  areliayah).  He  sounds 
like  thunder,  vii.  3,  6  {divo  na  te  tanyaiur  eti  sushmah)  ;  x.  45,  4 
{alerandad  Agnih  stanayann  iva  Byauh^^^) ;  viii.  91,  5;   he  roars  like 

330  In  one  place  (viii.  19,  32)  Agni  is  called  sahasra-mushka,  whicli  the  commentator 
explains  by  bahu-tejmha,  having  many  flames.  The  same  epithet  is,  as  we  have 
seen,  applied  in  R.V.  vi.  46,  3,  to  Indra,  where  Sayana  makes  it  equivalent  to  sahaara- 
iepha,  mille  membra  genitalia  habens. 

831  It  is  to  be  observed  that  in  this  passage  Dyans,  and  not  Indra,  is  described  as  the 
thnnderer.  See  above  p.  118  f.,  the  reference  to  the  question  whether  Byaus  had 
been  superseded  by  Indra. 


EPITHETS  AND  CHAEACTERISTICS  OF  AGNI.  213 

the  wind,  ibid,  {huve  vatmvanam  Itwoim  Pa/rjanya-Jcrandyam  sahah  \ 
Agnim  samudravdsasam "'') ;  like  a  lion,  iii.  2,  11  {nanadan  na  simhaK) ; 
and  when  he  has  yoked  his  red,  wind-driven  horses  to  his  car,  he 
bellows  like  a  bull,  and  invades  the  forest- trees  with  his  flames ;  the 
birds  are  terrified  at  the  noise  when  his  grass-devouring  sparks  arise, 
i.  94,  10  {yad  ayulcthah  armha  rohita  rathe  vatafiitd  vriahabhasyeva  te 
ravah  \  dd  invasi  vanino  dhumaJceiund  |  11.  AdJia  svandd  uta  lihhyuh 
patatrino  drapmh  yat  te  yavasddo  vi  asthiran).  He  is  resistless  as  the 
resounding  Maruts,  and  as  the  lightnings  of  heaven,  i.  143,  5  {na  yo 
vardya  Marutdm  wa  svanah  seneva  srishtd  divyd  yathd  'sanih).  He  has 
a  hundred  manifestations,  and  shines  like  the  sun,  i.  149,  3  {silro  na 
ruruhvdn  satdtmd)  ;  vii.  3,  6.  His  lustre  is  like  the  rays  of  the  dawn 
and  the  sun,  x.  91,  4  {d  te  childtre  ushasdm  iva  etayah  arepasah  suryas- 
yeva  rasmayah),  and  like  the  lightnings  of  the  rain-cloud,  ibid.  5  (=S.V. 
ii.  332,  tava  sriyo  varshyasyeva  vidyutah)  ;  and  he  is  borne  on  a  chariot 
of  lightning,  iii.  14,  1  {vidyudratha),  on  a  luminous  car,  i.  140,  1 
{Jyoliratha),^^^  i.  141,  12  (chandraratha) ;  iii.  5,  3  ;  v.  1.  11  (d  adya 
ratham  bhdnumo  bhdnumantam  Agne  tishtha) ;  on  a  brilliant,  x.  1,  5 
{chitra/ratha),  golden,  iv.  1,  8  Qiiramymratha),  on  an  excellent  or 
beautiful  car,  iii.  3,  9  {sumadrafha)  ;  iv.  2,  4  {suratha).  This  chariot 
is  drawn  by  horses  or  mares  characterized  as  butter-backed  [ghrita- 
prishtha),  wind-impelled  (vatajuta),  beautiful  {svaha),  ruddy  (roMt), 
tawny  {arusha),  active  (Jiraha),  assuming  all  forms  (viharupa),  and 
mind-yoked  (manoyuj),  and  by  other  epithets  (i.  14,  6,  12  ;  1.  45,  2 
i.  94,  10 ;  i.  141,  12  ;  ii.  4,  2 ;  ii.  10,  2  ;  iv.  1,  8  ;  iv.  2,  2,  4 
iv.  e,  9  {rijumusMa .') ;  vi.  16,  43;  vii.  16,  2;  viii.  43,  16;  x.  7,  4 
X.  70,  2  f.),  which  he  yokes  in  order  to  summon  the  gods,  i.  14,  12 
{tdihir  devdn  ikdvaha) ;  iii.  6,  6  (ritasya  vd  kesind  yogydhhir  ghritas- 
nuvd  rohita  dhuri  dhishva  \  athdvaha  devdn  deva  vidvdn  \  9.  A  ebhir 
[devaiK]  Agne  sarathaih  ydhi  arvdn)  ;  viii.  64,  1  {yuhhd  hi  devahuta- 
man  ah&n  Agne  rathlr  iva). 

332  Here  it  will  be  noted,  lie  is  also  said  "  to  be  clothed  with,  or  enveloped  by,  the 
ocean."  The  same  epithet  had  also  occurred  in  the  preceding  verse  (=S.V.  i.  18), 
where  the  rishi  is  also  said  to  invoke  the  bright  god,  as  did  Aurva,  Bhrigu,  and 
Apnavana  {Aurvabhrigu/vat  duchim  ApnavSna-vad  a  kiwe  Agnim  samudra-vaaasam). 

333  xhe  same  epithet  is  applied  to  the  gods  in  general  in  x,  63,  4. 


si  14  HIGH  IJlVlNE  FUKCTldNS  ASSIGNED  TO  AGNI. 

(4)  High  divine  functions  assigned  to  him. 

The  highest  divine  functions  are  ascribed  to  Agni.  He  is  called  the 
divine  monarch  {samrajo  aswrasyd),  and  declared  to  be  strong  as  Indra, 
vii.  6,  1  {Indrasyeva  pra  tavasas  hritani  vande).  Although  (as  we  have 
seen  above)  he  is  described  in  some  passages  as  the  oifspring  of  heaven 
and  earth,  he  is  said  in  other  places  to  have  stretched  them  out, 
iii.  6,  5  {tma  kratva  rodasi  a  tatantha) ;  vii.  5,  4 ;  to  have  spread  out 
the  two  worlds  like  two  skins,  vi.  8,  3  {vi  eharmaniva  dhishane  avarta- 
yat) ;  to  have  produced  them,  i.  96  4  {janita  rodasysh)  ;  vii.  5,  6 
{.Ihmana  janayan) ;  to  have,  like  the  unborn,  supported  the  earth  and 
sky  with  true  hymns,  i.  67,  3  {ajo  na  ksham  dadhara  prithivith  tas- 
tambha  dydm  mantrebhih  satyaih) ;  to  have,  by  his  flame,  held  aloft  the 
heaven,  iii.  5,  10  {ud  astambhit  samidhd  nalcam  rishvak) ;  to  have  kept 
asunder  the  two  worlds,  vi.  8,  3  [pi  astabhnad  rodasi  mitre  adbhutah) ; 
to  have  formed  the  mundane  regions  and  the  luminaries  of  heaven, 
vi.  7,  7  {vi  yo  rajamsi  amimita  sukratwr  vaisvanaro  vi  divo  rochcina 
Icavih) ;  vi.  8,  2 ;  to  have  begotten  Mitra,  x.  8,  4  {janayan  Mitram)> 
and  caused  the  sun,  the  imperishable  orb,  to  ascend  the  sky,  x.  156,  4 
{Agne  nahshatram  aja/ram  a  suryam  rohayo  divi) ;  to  have  made  all  that 
flies,  or  walks,  or  stands,  or  moves,  x.  88,  4'^'  {sa  patatri  itvararh 
sthah  jagad  yat  svatram  'agnir  akj-inod  Jdtaveddh) ;  to  adorn  the  heaven 
with  stars,  i.  68,  5  {pipesa  nalcam  strilhir  damunah).  He  is  the  head 
{tnurddhd,)  and  summit  {kakud)  of  the  sky,  the  centre  {ndbhi)  of  the 
earth  (t.  59,  2) ;  compare  verse  1 ;  vi.  7,  1 ;  viii.  44,  16  ;  x.  88,  5 ; 
he  props  up  men  like  a  pillar,  i.  59, 1  {sthuneva  j'andn  upamid  yayanthd); 
iv.  6,  1  {a/nunena  "irihatd  vakshathena  upa  stabhdyad  wpamin  na  rodhah). 
His  greatness  exceeds  that  of  heaven  and  all  the  worlds,  i.  59,  5 
{Divai  chit  te  brihato  j'atavedo  mihanara  pra  ririche  mahitvam) ;  iii. 
3,  10  {Jdtah  aprino  hhuvandni  rodasi  Agne  td  viiva  paribhur  asi  tmana)  \ 
iii.  6,  2.'''    He,  the  destroyer  of  cities,  has  achieved  famous  exploits 

'"  This  half  verse  (x.  88,  4)  is  quoted  in  Ninikta,  v.  3.  Durga,  the  commentator 
on  th6  Nirukta,  explain^  the  words  by  saying  that  Agni  subjects  all  things  to  hiinself 
at  the  time  of  the  mundane  dissolution.  The  gods  are  said  in  the  same  hymn  (x. 
88,  7,)  to  Wve  thrown  iiito  Agni  an  oblation  accompanied  by  a  hymn,  and  in  verse  9, 
this  oblation  is  said  to  have  consisted  of  all  creatures  or  all  worlds  {bhwoanani  visvS)- 

sss  Epithets  of  lihis  description  inay  have  been  originally  applied  to  some  other  god 
to  whom  they  were  more  suitable  than  to  Agni,  and  subsequently  transferred  to  him 
by  his  worshippers  in  emulation  of  the  praises  lavished  on  other  deities. 


HIGH  DIVINE  FUNCTIONS  ASSIGNED  TO  AGNI.  215 

of  old,  vii.  6,  2  {puran4arasi/a  glrlhir  a  vivdse  Agner  vratdni  purvya 
mdhani).  Men  tremble  at  his  migMy  deeds,  and  his  ordinances  and 
designs  cannot  be  resisted,  ii.  8,  3  {yasya  vratam  na  miyate) ;  ii.  9,  1  = 
Vaj.  S.  xi.  36  (adahdhavrata-pramatir  .  .  .  Agnih) ;  vi.  7,  5  ;  viii.  44j 
25  ;  viii.  92,  3  (yasmdd  rejante  krisMayai  oharkrilydni  kritwatah). 
Earth  and  heaven  and  all  beings  present  and  future  obey  his  com- 
mands ;  vii.  5,  4  {tavu  tridkatu  prithivl  uta  dymr  vaisvanara  vratam 
Agne  sachanta) ;  A.V.  iv.  23,  7  {yasya  idam  pradiai  yad  roehate  yaj 
jatam  janitavyam  cha  kevalam  \  ataumi  Agnim  nathito  johavlmi).  He 
conquered  wealth,  or  space,  for  the  gods  in  battle,  i.  59,  5  {yudha 
devehhyo  varwaS  eJmhartlia)  ;  and  delivered  them  from  calamity,  vii. 
13,  2  {tvam  devan  alMsaster  amwnehah).  He  is  the  conqueror  of 
thousands  {saJiasrajit),  i.  188,  1.  All  the  gods  fear  and  do  homage 
to  him  when  he  abides  in  darkness,  vi.  9,  7  {visve  devah  anamasyan 
hhiyands  tvam  Agne  tamasi  tasthwdmsam).  He  is  celebrated  and 
•worshipped  by  Varuna,  Mitra,  the  Maruts,  and  all  the  3,339  gods; 
iii.  9,  9  (trmi  iatd  trl  sahasrani  Agnim  trim^ach  cha  devdh  nava 
(tItaBaparyan)  ;  iii.  14,  4  {Mitral  cha  tuhhyam  Va/runah  sahasvo 
Agne  visve  Marutah  sumnam  archan)  ;  x.  69,  9  {devds  chit  te  am- 
ritdh  jdtavedo  mahimdnam  Vddknyasva  pra  voohan).  It  is  through 
him  that  Varuna,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman  triumph,  i.  141,  9  {tvayd  hi 
Agne  Faruno  dhritawato  Mitrah  idiadre  Aryamd  suddnavah).  He 
knows  and  sees  all  worlds,  or  creatures,  iii.  55,  10  (Agnis  td  viSvd 
bhtwandni  veda) ;  x.  187,  4  (yo.  vihd  'hhipasyati  hhuvand  sarn-  cha 
pasyati).^^^  He  knows  the  recesses  of  heaven,  iv.  8,  2,  4  {vidvdn 
a/rodhanam  divah),  the  divine  ordinances  and  the  races  or  births  of 
of  gods  and  men,  i.  70,  1,  3  (a  daivydni  vratd  chikitvdn  d  mdnushasyo: 
janasya  janma  \  etd  ehikitnjo  Ihumd  ni  pdhi  devdndm  janma  martdms  cha 
vidvdn)  ;  iii.  4,  11  ;  vi.  15,  13  ;  the  secrets  of  mortals,  viii.  39,  6 
Agnirjdtd  devdndm  Agnir  veda  martdndm,  apichyam) ;  and  hears  the 
invocations  which  are  addressed  to  him,  viii,  43,  23  {tam  tvd  vaya^ 
havdmahe  srimantam  jdtavedasam).  He  is  asura,  "  the  divine,"  iv.  2,  5; 
v.  12,  1  ;  V.  15,  1  ;  vii.  2,  3;  vii.  6,  1. 

336  These  same  wQida  are  in  iii,  62,  9,  appliei  to  Pushap;    See  aho-^Bj  p.  172. 


216  AGNI'S  RELATIONS  TO  HIS  WORSHIPPEES. 

(5)  AgnVs  relations  to  Ms  worshippers. 

The  votaries  of  Agni  prosper,  they  are  wealthy  and  live  long, 
vi.  2,  4,  6  {samidha  ym  te  dhutim  niUtim  martyo  na§at  \  vayavantam 
sa  pushyati  kshayam  Agne  iatayusham) ;  vi.  5,  5  {yas  te  yajnena  sami- 
dha yah  uTcthair  arlcehhih  suno  sahaso  dadaiat  \  sa  martyeshu  amrita 
prachetdh  raya  dyumnena  irwvasa  vi  bhdti);  vi.  10,  3;  vi.  13,  4; 
vi.  15,  11 ;  vii.  11,  2  ;  viii.  19,  5,  6  ;  viii.  44,  15  ;  viii.  73,  9.  He 
is  the  deliverer  (compare  viii.  49,  5)  and  friend  of  the  man  who 
comes  to  him  with  fine  horses  and  gold,  and  a  chariot  full  of  riches, 
and  delights  to  entertain  him  as  a  guest,  iv.  4,  10  (yas  tva  svahah 
suhiranyo  Agne  v/paydii  vasumatd  rathena  \  tasya  trdtd  bhavasi  saJcha 
yas  te  dtithyam  dmishag  jujoshat)  ;  and  grants  protection  to  the 
devoted  worshipper  who  sweats  to  bring  him  fuel,'^'  or  wearies 
his  head  to  serve  him,  iv.  2,  6  {yas  te  idhmam  jalharat  sishviddno 
murdhdnam  i)d  tafapate  tvdyd  \  hhuvas  tasya  svatavdn  pdyur  Agne). 
He  watches  with  a  thousand  eyes  over  the  man  who  brings  him  food 
and  nourishes  him  with  oblations,  x.  79,  5  {yo  asmai  annam  trishu 
ddadhdti  djyair  ghritair  juhoti  pushyati  \  tasmai  sahasram  akshahhir  vi 
chakshe).  He  bestows  on  his  servant  a  renowned,  devout,  excellent, 
incomparable  son,  who  confers  fame  upon  his  father,'^'  v.  25,  5  {Agnis 
fuvisravastamam  tuvilrahmdnam  uttamam  \  aturtam  iravayatpatim  pu- 
trarh  daddti  ddsushe).  He  gives  riches,  which  he  abundantly  com- 
mands, i.  1,  3  {Agnind  rayim  aSnavat);  i.  31,  10  {tvam  Agne  pramatis 
tvam  pita  'si  nas  tvam  vayaskrit  ta/va  jdmayo  vayam  \  sam  tvd  rdya^ 
iatinal),  sam  sahasrinah  sumram  yanti  vratapdm  addhJiyd)  ;  i.  36,  4 
{visvam  so  Agne  jayati  tvayd  dhana§i  yas  te  daddia  martyah).  The  man 
whom  he  protects  and  inspires  in  battle  conquers  abundant  food,  and 
can  never  be  overcome,  i.  27,  7  f.==S.V.  ii.  765  f.  {yam  Agne  pritsu 
martyam  avdh  vdjeshu  yam  j'undh  \  sa  yantd  iahatir  ishah  |  8.  Ndkvt 
asya  sahantya  paryetd  kayasya  chit).  No  mortal  enemy  can  by  any 
wondrous  power  gain  the  mastery  over  him  who  sacrifices  to  this  god, 

3"  In  viii.  91,  19  f.  the  rishi  informs  Agni  that  he  has  no  cow  which  would  yield 
butter  for  oblations,  and  no  axe  to  cut  wood  withal,  and  that  therefore  his  offering  is 
such  as  the  god  sees :  and  he  begs  him  to  accept  any  sorts  of  wood  he  may  throw 
into  him  {na  hi  me  asti  aghnya  na  madhitir  vananvati  \  atha  etadrig  bharami  U  j 
20.  Tad  Agne  kani  kani  chid  a  te  daruni  dadhmaai  tajmhaava  yamiahihya). 

333  guch  is  the  sense  assigned  by  Sayana  to  the  epithet  iravayat-patim. 


AGNI'S  EELATIONS  TO  HIS  WOESHIPPEES.  217 

viii.  23,  15  (na  tasya  may  ay  a  ehwnd  ripur  lilta  martyah  |  yo  Agnaye 
dadaia  havyaddtihhih).  He  also  confers,  and  is  the  guardian  and  lord  of, 
immortality,  i.  31,  7  {tvam  tarn  Ague  amritatve  uttame  marttam  dadhasi) ; 
vii.  7,  7  {amritasya  rahshita) ;  vii.  4,  6  {ise  hi  Ague  amritasya  hhureh). 
He  was  made  by  the  gods  the  centre  of  immortality,  iii.  17,  4  (amrit- 
asya n&bhih).  His  worshippers  seek  him  with  glad  hearts,  viii.  43,  3 1 
(hridhhir  mandrebhir  imahe).  In  a  funeral  hymn  Agni  is  supplicated 
to  warm  with  his  heat  the  unborn  part^''  of  the  deceased,  and  in  his 
auspicious  form  to  carry  it  to  the  world  of  the  righteous,  x.  16,  4 
{ajo  hhagas  tapasa  tarn  tapasva  tarn  te  iochis  tapatu  tarn  te  arcfdh  \  yas  te 
kivas  fanvo  jatavedas  tdhhir  vahainam  sukritam  u  lolcam)?"'    He  carries 

'3'  Professor  Aufrecht  thinks  that  this  is  not  the  sense  of  the  words,  and  that  they 
mean:  "The  goat  (with  whose  skin  the  dead  is  covered)  is  thy  share  ;  that  consume 
with  thy  heat ;  that  he  consumed  with  thy  flash  and  flame,"  etc.  ;  and  compares 
A^valayanas'  Grihya  Sutras  iv.  2,  4 ;  3,  20  ;  and  Katyayana^  S'rauta  Sutras,  xxv. 
7,  34.  I  gather  from  the  fact  that  this  passage  is  cited  in  the  Lexicon  of  Messrs. 
Bohtlingk  and  Roth  under  aja  1,  c  (where  the  sense  of  goat  is  assigned  to  the  word), 
that  they  are  of  the  same  opinion  as  Professor  Aufrecht.  I  think,  however,  that  the 
rendering  I  have  followed  is  more  agreeable  to  the  context.  In  the  preceding  verses 
1  and  2,  Agni  had  been  besought  not  so  to  burn  the  body  of  the  deceased  as  to 
destroy  it  (compare  E.V.  i.  162,  20),  but  after  having  sufiiciently  "  cooked"  the  man 
{yada  iritam  JcrinmaTi),  to  send  him  to  the  Fathers.  In  verse  3,  the  difi'erent  ele- 
ments of  which  the  body,  when  living,  was  composed,  are  commanded  to  return  to 
the  sources  from  which  they  were  at  first  derived ;  and  then  in  the  verse  before  us 
(as  I  understand  it),  the  god  is  besought  to  warm  the  man's  unborn  part,  and  convey 
it  to  the  world  of  the  righteous.  In  the  text  there  is  no  word  answering  to  "thy," 
which  has,  therefore,  to  be  supplied  by  those  who  understand  aja  of  a  goat.  It  is 
more  natural  to  suppose  that  it  is  the  soul  of  the  departed  man  than  that  of  a  goat 
which  is  to  be  conveyed  to  the  world  of  the  righteous;  (although  I  am  aware 
that  Manu,  v.  42,  declares  that  cattle  which  are  sacrificed  go  to  heaven,  and  the 
same  is  said  of  the  sacrificial  horse  in  E.V.  i.  162,  21,  and  i.  163,  12  f.) ;  and  in  the 
following  verse  (x.  16,  5)  it  is  evidently  the  man  who  is  said  to  have  been  offered  to 
Agni,  and  whom  Agni  is  besought  to  dismiss  to  the  Fathers.  My  rendering  has  the 
support  of  Professor  Miiller  (Journ.  of  Germ.  Or.  Soc,  vol.  ix.  p.  xv.),  who  trans- 
lates ajo  hhagah  by  "  das  ew'ge  Theil,"  the  eternal  part,  and  of  M.  Langlois,  who 
renders  it  "  une  portion  immortelle."  These  verses,  x.  16,  1-5,  will  be  found  quoted 
at  length  in  the  section  on  Yama. 

'*"  Some  further  verses  of  this  hymn  will  be  quoted  in  the  section  on  Tama.  In 
verse  9,  the  krmiyad  Agni,  the  consumer  of  carrion,  or  of  the  dead,  is  spoken  of  as 
an  object  to  be  repelled.  In  the  Vaj.  S.  i.  17,  Agni  is  prayed  to  drive  away  two  of 
his  own  forms,  the  amad  and  the  kravyad,  and  to  bring  the  sacrificial  fire  {apa,  Agne 
Agnim  amSdaih  jahi  nisk  krmiyadam  sedha  \  a  dmwyajam  vaha),  where  the  com- 
mentator says  that  three  Agnis  are  mentioned,  the  one  which  devours  raw  flesh 
(amad)  which:  is  the,  common  culinary  fire  Qaukiko  'gnih),  the  second  the  funereal 
{Jcravyat  |  imadahe  kravyam  mamsam  atti  iti  kravyat  ehitSgnilf),  and  the  third  the 


218  AGNI'S  EELATIONS  TO  HIS  "WOESHIPPEES. 

men  across  calamities,  as  in  a  ship  over  the  sea,  or  preserves  from 
them,  iii.  20,  4  {parskad  viha  Hi  dwila  grinamtartC) ;  v.  4,  9  {viimni  no 
imrgaha  jatamdah  sindJmm  na  nava,  dwrita  Hi  pa/rshi)  ;  vii.  12,  2  [aoi 
mahna  mkva  dwitani  sahiein  \  sa  no  rakshishad  dwritad  avadyat).  All 
blessings  issue  from  him  as  branches  from  a  tree,  vi.  13,  1  {tvad  visva 
sulJiaga  saubhagdni  Agne  vi  yanii  vanino  na  vaydh).  He  is  like  a 
water-trough  in  a  desert,  x.  4,  1  {dhanvann  iva  prapa  asi  Agne).  All 
treasures  are  congregated  in  him,  x.  6,  6  {sam  yasmin  visva  vasund 
jagmuK) ;  he  commands  all  the  riches  in  the  earth,  the  upper  and  lower 
oceans,  the  atmosphere,  and  the  sky,  vii.  6,  7  (a  devo  dade  ludhnya 
vasuni  vaihdnarah  uditd  suryasya  |  a  samudrad  wowrad  a  parasmad  a 
Agnir  divah  a  prithivyah)  ;  x.  91,  3  [vasur  vasundm  kshayasi  tvam 
ekah  id  dydvd  cha  ydni  prithivi  oha  pushyatah).  He  is,  in  consequence, 
continually  supplicated  for  all  kinds  of  boons,  riches,  food,  deliverance 
from  enemies  and  demons,  poverty,  nakedness,  reproach,  childlessness, 
hunger,  i.  12,  8,  9  ;  i.  36,  12  ff.  ;  i.  58,  8,  9  ;  ii.  4,  8  ;  ii.  7,  2,  3 ; 
ii.  9,  5;  iii,  1,  21;  iii.  13,  7;  iii.  16,  5;  iv.  2,  20  ;  iv.  3,  14;  iv.  11, 
6  ;  V.  3,  11 ;  vi.  1,  12  f. ;  vi.  4,  8  ;  vi.  5,  7 ;  vi.  6,  7 ;  vii.  1,  5,  13,  19. 
He  is  besought  to  protect  his  worshippers  with  a  hundred  iron  walls, 
vi.  48,  8;  vii.  3,  7  {satam  purhhir  dyasibJiir  ni  pdhi) ;  vii.  16,  10;  to 
be  himself  such  a  fortification  with  a  hundred  surrounding  walls,  vii. 
15,  14  {adha  mdhi  nah  ayasl  anddhriihto  nripitaye  \  pur  ihava  &ata- 
hhyih) ;  i.  189,  2 ;  to  consume  their  enemies  like  dry  bushes,  iv.  4,  4 
{ni  amitrdn  oshatdt  tigmahete  \  yo  no  ardtim  samidhdna  chakre  nichd 
tarn  dhakshi  atamm  na  Sushlam) ;  to  strike  down  the  malevolent  as  a 
tree  is  destroyed  by  lighting,  vi.  8,  5  {pavyeva  rdjann  aghasamsam 
ajara  niohd  ni  vrisoha  vaninam  na  tej'asd).  Compare  A.V.  iii.  1,  1 ; 
iii.  2,  1 ;  vi.  120,  1.  He  is  invoked  in  battle,  viii.  43,  21  (samatsu 
tvd  havdmahe),  in  which  he  leads  the  van,  viii.  73,  8  {puroydvdnam 
djishu).  He  is  prayed  to  forgive  whatever  sin  the  worshipper  may 
have  commited  through  folly,  and  to  make  him  guiltless  towards  Aditi, 
iv.  12,  4  (j)at  ehid  hi  te  purushutrd  yavishtha  aehittibhis  cJtakrima  hach 
chid  dgah  \  kridhi  su  asmdn  Aditer  andgdn  vi  endmsi  iisratho  vishvag 
Agne) ;   viii.  93,  7  {yat  sim  dgaS  ehakrima  tat  su  mrila  tad  Aryamd 

sacrificial  (yagayogyalC).  Compare  Vaj.  San.  xviii.  51  f.  The  Taitt.  Sanh.  ii.  5,  8, 6, 
mentions  another  threefold  division  of  fire :  Trayo  vai  agnayo  haoyavahimo  devanSm 
kavyava/umak pitfinam  saharakshah  aamranam. 


AGNI'S  EELAtlONS  TO  HIS  ■WOESHIPPEES.  219 

Aditili  UifathantU  ;  see  above*  pp.  46  and  47)  ;  and  to  avert  Varuna's 
wrath,  iv.  1,  4  (tvam  no  Agn6  Varwnaaya  vidvdfi  devasya  helo  ava  yasist' 
ththah). 

In  two  passages,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  108,  note),  the  wor- 
shijiper  naively  says  to  Agni  (as  Indra's  votary  says  to  him),  viii.  44, 
23,  "  If  I  were  thou,  and  thou,  Agni,  wert  I,  thy  aspirations  should 
be  fulfilled ;"  and  viii.  19,  25  f.,  "  If,  Agni,  thou  wert  a  mortal,  and  I, 
o  thou  who  art  rich  in  friends,  were  an  immortal,  (26)  I  would  not 
abandon  thee  to  wrong  or  to  penury.  My  worshipper  should  not  be 
poor,  nor  distressed,  nor  miserable." 

In  viii.  92,  2,  Agni  called  Daivodasa  {Daivodaso  'gnih),  from  which 
it  would  appear  that  king  Divodasa  claimed  him  especially  as  his 
tutelary  god.  In  the  same  way  he  is  called  in  viii.  1 9,  32  {samrajafit, 
Tfasctdasyavam),  and  in  x.  69,  1  ff.,  he  is  called  Agni  Badhryasva^ 
appafeiitly  because  a  sage  of  that  name  had  kindled  him.  Compare 
the  epithet  Kausika  appHed  to  Indra  in  E.V.  i.  10,  11,  and  the  first 
vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  347  ff. 

Agni  is  occasionally  identified  with  other  gods  and  diflferent  god'- 
desses,  Indra,  Vishnu,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman,  Ansa,  Tvashtri, 
Eudra,  Pushan,  Savitri,  Bhaga,  Aditi,  Hotra,  BharatI,  Ila,  SaraSvati, 
ii.  1,  3-7,  and  11  {tvam  Agne  Indro  vrishabhah  satam  dsi  tvam  Vishmwr 
v/rugayondmasyah,  etc.);  iii.  5,  4;  v.  3,  1;  vii.  12,  3;  x.  8,  5.^"  AU  gods 
are  comprehended  in  him,  v.  3,  1  {tve  visve  sahasas  putra  devah) ;  he 
surrounds  them  as  the  circumference  of  a  wheel  does  the  spokes, 
V.  13,  6  {Agne  nemir  aran  iva  tvarh  devan  parihhur  asi) ;  compare 
i.  141,  9.  Varuna  is  in  one  place  spoken  of  as  his  brother,  iv.  1,  2 
(sa  hhratwruM  Varunam  Agne  a  vmritsva). 

Agni  is  associated  with  Indra  ^*  in  different  hymns,  as  i.  108  and  109  ; 
iii.  12  ;   vi.  59  and  60  ;   vii.  93  and  94  ;    viii.  38  and  40.     The  two 

'*!  Another  verse  where  Agni  is  identified  with  other  gods  is  i.  164,  46.  Indram 
Mitram  Varunam  Agnim  ahur  at/to  divyah  sa  suparno  garutman  \  eham  sad  viprah 
bahudha  vadamti  Agnim  'Samam  Matwisvanam  ahuh  |  "  They  call  him  Indra,  Mitra, 
Varuua,  Agni ;  then  there  is  that  celestial,  well-winged  bird.  Sages  name  variously 
that  which  is  hut  one ;  they  call  it  Agni,  Yama,  Matarisvan."  Compare  A.V.  xiii. 
3,  13 :  sa  Varunah  sagam  Agnir  bhavati  sa  Mitro  bhavati  pratar  uA/an  |  sa  Savita 
bhutva  imtarikshena  yati  sa  Indro  bhutva  tapati  madJa/ato  divam  \  "  Agni  becomes 
Varuna  in  the  evening ;  rising  in  the  morning  he  is  Mitra ;  becoming  Savitri  he  moves 
through  the  air  ;  becoming  Indra  he  glows  in  the  middle  of  the  sky." 

^**  See  Miiller's  Lectures  on  Language.    Second  series,  pp.  495  f. 


220  AGNI'S  EELATIONS  TO  HIS  -WORSHIPPERS. 

gods  are  said  to  be  twin  brothers,  having  the  same  father,  and  having 
their  mothers  here  and  there, ^^  vi.  59,  2  (see  above,  pp.  14  and  81),  to 
he  both  thunderers  {vajrina),  slayers  of  Vrittra  or  of  foes  {vrittrahana), 
and  shakers  of  cities,  iii.  12,  4,  6  {Tndragni  navatim  puro  dasapatnir 
adhunutam  \  saham  ehena  karmana) ;  vi.  59,  3  ;  vi.  60,  3 ;  vii.  93,  1,  4  ; 
vui.  38,  2.'"  They  are  also  invited  together  to  come  and  drink  soma 
(vii.  93,  6;  viii.  38,' 4,  7-9),  and  are  together  invoked  for  help,  vii.  94, 
7  [Irdragm  avasd  a  gatam  asmabhyam  charshanlsaha).  In  one  place, 
i.  109,  4,  they  are  called  asvina,  "  horsemen."  (See  Miiller,  as  quoted 
at  the  foot  of  the  page).  Agni  is  elsewhere  said  to  exercise  alone  the 
function  usually  assigned  to  Indra,  and  to  slay  Vrittra  and  destroy 
cities,  i.  59,  6  (  Vaisvanaro  dasyum  Agnir  jaghanvdn  adhunot  Mshthdh 
ova  S'ambaram  hJiet) ;  i.  78,  4  {tarn  u  tva  vrittrahantamam  yo  dasyun 
avadhunushe  \  dyumnair  abhi  pra  nonumah) ;  vi.  16,  14,  39,  48  {vrittra- 
hanam  purandaram  \  Agne  puro  rurojUha) ;  vii.  5,  3 ;  vii.  6,  2 ;  viii. 
63,  4.  He  is  also  described  as  driving  away  the  Dasyus  from  the  house, 
thus  creating  a  large  light  for  the  Arya,  vii.  5,  6  {imam  dasyun  oJcasaft 
ajah  uru  jyotir  janayann  aryaya,  compare  i.  59,  2,  and  x.  69,  6),  as  the 
promoter  of  the  Arya,  viii.  92,  1  {aryasya  vardhanam  Agnini),  and  as 
the  vanquisher  of  the  irreligious  Panis,  vii.  6,  3  {ni  akratun  grathino 
mridhromachah  panin  asraddhan  avridhan  ayajnan  |  pra  pra  tan  dasyun 
Agnir  vwdya  purvai  chakara  apa/ran  ayajyiin), — although  it  is  Indra 
who  is  most  frequently  represented  in  the  hymns  as  the  patron  and 
helper  of  the  sacred  race,  and  the  destroyer  of  their  enemies.  On  the 
other  hand,  in  viii.  38,  1,  where  the  two  gods  are  called  two  priests 
{yajmsya  ritvijd),  Indra  is  made  to  share  in  the  character  peculiar  to 
Agni.'*°    In  hymn  i.  93,  Agni  and  Soma  are  celebrated  in  company. 

31*  The  word  so  rendered  is  ihehmriatara.  Sayana  says  it  means  that  their  mother 
Aditi  is  here  and  there,  i.e.  everywhere.  Eoth,  s.v.  understands  it  to  mean  that  the 
mother  of  the  one  is  here,  of  the  other  there,  i.e.  in  different  places.  Compare  iheha 
jate  R.V.  V.  47,  5.    See  MuUer's  Lectures  on  Language  ii.  493. 

s"  Compare  A.V.  iv.  23,  6 ;  vii.  110,  1  f. 

M6  Compare  the  words  attributed  to  Indra  in  x.  119,  liabove,  p.  91. 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  AGNI.  221 

(6)  Agni, — a  metrical  slcetch. 

Great  Agni,  though  thine  essence  be  but  one, 
Thy  forms  are  three ;  as  fire  thou  blazest  here, 
As  lightning  flashest  in  the  atmosphere. 

In  heaven  thou  flamest  as  the  golden  sun. 

It  was  in  heaven  thou  hadst  thy  primal  birth  ; 
By  art  of  sages  skilled  in  sacred  lore 
Thou  wast  drawn  dovni  to  human  hearths  of  yore. 

And  thou  abid'st  a  denizen  of  earth. 

Sprung  from  the  mystic  pair,'*'  by  priestly  hands 
In  wedlock  joined,  forth  flashes  Agni  bright ; 
But, — 0  ye  Heavens  and  Earth,  I  tell  you  right, — 

The  unnatural  child  devours  the  parent  brands. 

But  Agni  is  a  god :  we  must  not  deem 
That  he  can  err,  or  dare  to  reprehend 
His  acts,  which  far  our  reason's  grasp  transcend  : 

He  best  can  judge  what  deeds  a  god  beseem. 

And  yet  this  orphaned  god  himself  survives :  ' 

Although  his  hapless  mother  soon  expires, 
And  cannot  nurse  the  babe,  as  babe  requires, — 

Great  Agni,  wondrous  infant,  grows  and  thrives.  \ 

Smoke-bannered  Agni,  god  with  crackling  voice 
And  flaming  hair,  when  thou  dost  pierce  the  gloom 
At  early  mom,  and  aU  the  world  illume, 

Both  Heaven  and  Earth  and  gods  and  men  rejoice. 

In  every  home  thou  art  a  welcome  guest ; 

The  household's  tutelary  lord ;  a  son, 

A  father,  mother,  brother,  all  in  one ; 
A  friend  by  whom  thy  faithful  friends  are  blest. 

s«  The  two  pieces  of  fuel  ty,  the  attrition  of  which  fire  is  produced,  which,  as  we 
have  seen  above,  are  represented  as  husband  and  wife. 


222  METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  A(?^NI. 

A  swift-winged  messenger,  thou  callest  down 
From  heaven,  to  crowd  our  hearths,  the  race  diyine, 
To  taste  our  food,  our  hymns  to  hear,  henign, 
And  all  our  fondest  aspiratio^is  crown. 

Thou,  Agni,  art  our  priest,  divinely  wise, 
In  holy  science  versed ;  thy  skill  detects 
The  faults  that  mar  our  rites,  mistakes  coirests, 

And  aU  our  acts  completes  and  sanctifies. 

Thou  art  the  cord  that  stretches  to  the  skies. 

The  bridge  that  spans  the  chasm,  profound  and  vast, 
Dividing  Earth  from  Heaven,  o'er  which  at  last 

The  good  shall  safely  pass  to  Paradise. 

But  when,  great  god,  thine  awful  anger  glows, 
And  thou  revealest  thy  destroying  force. 
All  creatures  flee  before  thy  furious  course, 

As  hosts  are  chased  by  overpowering  foes. 

Thou  leveUest  all  thou  touchest ;  forests  vast 

Thou  shear' st  like  beards  which  barber's  razor  shaves, 
Thy  wind-driven  flames  roar  lofid  as  ocean-waves, 

And  all  thy  track  is  black  when  thou  hast  past. 

But  thou,  great  Agni,  dost  not  always  wear 
That  direful  form ;  thou  rather  lov'st  to  shine 
Upon  our  hearths  with  milder  flame  benign. 

And  cheer  the  homes  where  thou  grt  nurgpd  with  caxe. 

Yes,  thou  delightest  all  those  men  to  bless, 
"Who  toU,  unwearied,  to  supply  the  food 
"Which  thou  so  lovest,  logsof  well-dried  wood, 

And  heaps  of  butter  bring, — ^thy  favourite, me^s. 

Though  I  no  cow  ppssess,  and  have  no  store 
Of  butter, — nor  an  axe  fresh  wood  to  cleave, 
Thou,  gracious  god,  wilt  my  poor  gift  receive, — 

These  few  dry  sticks  I  bripg;  I.ljaye  Wo,mqre. 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OP  AGNI.  223 

Preserve  us,  lord,  thy  faithful  servants  save 
From  all  the  ills  by  which  our  bliss  is  marred  ; 
Tower  like  an  iron  waU  our  homes  to  guard, 

And  all  the  boons  bestow  our  hearts  can  crave. 

And  when  away  our  brief  existence  wanes, 

"When  we  at  length  our  earthly  homes  must  quit. 
And  our  freed  souls  to  worlds  unknown  shall  flit, 

Do  thou  deal  gently  with  our  cold  remains  ; 

And  then  thy  gracious  form  assuming,  guide 

Our  unborn  part  across  the  dark  abyss 

Aloft  to  realms  serene  of  light  and  bUss, 
"Where  righteous  men  among  the  gods  abide. 


224 


SECTION   XIV. 

TVASHTRI. 

This  god,  who  in  the  later  mythology  is  regarded  as  one  of  the 
Adityas,'*'  but  as  we  have  seen  (in  the  section  on  those  deities)  does 
not  bear  that  character  in  the  hymns  of  the  liig-veda,  is  the  Hephaistoa, 
or  Vulcan,  of  the  Indian  pantheon,  the  ideal  artist,  the  divine  artizan, 
the  most  skilful  of  workmen,  who  is  versed  in  all  wonderful  and  admir- 
able contrivances,  x.  53,  9  {Tvashtd  mayah  ved  apasum  apastamaK). 
He  sharpens  the  iron  axe  of  Brahmanaspati,  ibid,  {iisite  nunam  parasuM 
svayasam  yena  vriscMd  etaso  Brahmamspatih) ;  and  forges  the  thunder- 
bolts of  Indra,'"  i.  32,  2  (Tvashtd  asmai  vajrafh  svaryam  tatalcsha) ;  i. 
52,  7;  i.  61,  6;  i.  85,  9;  v.  31,  4 ;  vi.  17,  10;  x.  48,  3;  which  are 
described  as  golden  {hiranyayd)  i.  85,  9,  or  of  iron  (Jlyasa)  x.  48,  3, 
with  a  thousand  points  {sahasrabhrishti)  and  a  hundred  edges  [sata^ri), 
i.  85,  9 ;  vi.  17,  10  (see  above,  p.  86).  He  is  styled  svpani,  sugalhasfi, 
the  beautiful-,  or  skilful-handed,  iii.  54,  12;  vi.  49,  9;  svapas,  suJcrit, 
the  skilful  worker,  i.  85,  9 ;  iii.  54,  12 ;  viharupa,^^  the  omniform,  or 
archetype,  of  all  forms,  i.  13, 10  ;  iii.  55,  19  ;'°°  x.  10,  5  ;  and  savitri, 
the  vivifier,  iii.  55,  19;  x.  10,  5.  He  imparts  generative  power  and 
bestows  offspring,'"'  i.  142,  10  {tan  nas  turipam  adhhutam  puru  vd 

«"  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  103  S. 

3*8  According  to  K.V.  i.  121,  3,  Indra  himself  (?)  is  said  to  have  fashioned  the 
thimderholt  [takshad  vajram). 

s*9  In  iii.  38,  4,  the  epithet  viharupa  is  applied  to  another  god, — Indra  according 
to  Sayana. 

s-»  Quoted  in  Nimkta  x.  34.  See  Eoth's  illustrations  of  that  work,  p.  144,  where 
the  word  smitri  is  said  to  be  an  epithet  of  Tvashtri. 

8*1  In  A.V.  vi.  81,  3,  Tvashtri  is  said  to  have  bound  the  amulet  which  Aditi  wore 
when  she  was  desirous  of  offspring,  on  the  arm  of  a  female,  in  order  that  she  might 
bear  a  son  (j/am  parihastam  abibhar  Aditih  putrakanvya  |  Tvashla  tarn  asyah  a 
hadhmd  yathn  putram  janad  iti).  In  A.V.  xi.  1,  1,  Aditi  is  said  to  have  cooked  a 
hrahmaudana  oblation  when  desirous  of  sons  [Aditir  nathita  iyam  brahmaudanmn 
pachati putrakama).    See  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  26. 


TVASHTKI.  225 

aram  puru  tmand  |  Ihashtd  poshdya  vi  syatu  raye  naiha  no  asma- 
yuK)  ;  iii.  4,  9  =  vii.  2,  9  {tan  nas  twnpam  adha  poshayitnu  deva 
Tvashtar  vi  raramh  syasva  |  yato  virah  ha/rmanyah  sudaksho  yukta- 
grava  jayate  devakdmah) ;  vii.  34,  20  (a  yan  nah  patnir  gamanti 
achha  Ibashtd  supdnir  dadhdtu  virdn) ;  compare  Vaj.  Sanh.  xxi.  20 ; 
xxii.  20 ;  xxrii.  20 ;  and  A.V.  ii.  29,  2.  He  forms  husband  and 
wife  for  each  other,  even  from  the  womb,  E..V.  x.  10,  5  {garhhe 
nu  nau  janitd  dampatl  har  devas  Tvashtd  sa/oitd  visvarupah)  ; 
A.V.  vi.  78,  3  (Tvashtd  jdydm  ajanayat  Tvasliid  asyai  tvdni  patiin). 
He  developes  the  seminal  germ  in  the  womb,  and  is  the  shaper 
of  all  forms,  human  and  animal,  E.Y.  i.  188,  9  {Teashtd  rupdni 
hi  prabhuh  pasun  vihdn  samanafe) ;  viii.  91,  8  {Ibashta  rupeva  tak- 
shya);  x.  184,  1  {Vishmr  yonim  kalpayatu  Tvashtd  rupdni  pimiatu)  ; 
A.V.  ii.  26,  1 ;  v.  26,  8  ;  ix.  4,  6  {Tvashtd  rupdndm  janitd  paiundm)  ; 
Vaj.  S.  xxxi.  17 ;  Taitt.  Samh.  i.  5,  9,  1,  2 ;  i.  6,  4,  4 ;  vi.  p.  65a  (of 
India  Office  MS.  Tvashtd  vai  retasah  sihtasya  rupdni  vikaroti  |  tarn  eva 
vrishanam  patmshv  apisrijate  so  'smai  rupdni  vikaroti) ;  S'atapatha  Br. 
i.  9,  2,  10  {Tvashtd  vai  siktam  reto  vikaroti) ;  xiii.  1,  8,  7.  Compare 
ii.  2,  3,  4;  iii.  7,  3,  11.  He  has  produced  and  nourishes  a  great 
variety  of  creatures ;  all  worlds  (or  beings)  are  his,  and  are  known  to 
him ;  he  has  given  to  the  heaven  and  earth  and  to  all  things  their 
forms,  iii.  55,  19  {devas  Toashta  savitd  vihm-upah  puposha  prajdh  puru- 
dhdjajdna  \  imd  eha  visvd  hhuvandni  asyd) ;  iv.  42,  3  {Toashteva  visvd 
hhuvandni  vidvan);  x.  110,  9  {yah  ime  dyavdprithivi  janitri  rupair 
apimsad  hhuvandni  vihd).  The  Vaj.  S.  xxix.  9,  says:  Tvashtd  viram 
devakdmam.  (comp.  E.V.  iii.  4,  9,  quoted  above)  jcy'dna  Tvashtur  arvd 
j'dyate  dsur  asvah  |  Tvashtedam  vikvam  Ihuvanam  jajdna  \  "  Tvashtri 
has  generated  a  strong  man,  a  lover  of  the  gods.  From  Tvashtri  is  pro- 
duced a  swift  horse.  Tvashtri  has  created  the  whole  world."  He 
bestows  long  life,  E.V.  x.  18,  6  {iha  Tvashtd  siyanimd  safoshdh  dirgham 
dyuh  ka/ratijwase  vah)  ;  A.V.  vi.  78,  3  {Tvashtd  sahasram  dyumshi  dir- 
gham dyur  karotu  vdm).  He  puts  speed  into  the  legs  of  a  horse,  Vaj.  S. 
ix.  8  =  A.V.  vi.  92,  1  {d  te  Tvashtd  patsu  jwuam  dadhdtu).  In  ii.  23, 
17,  he  is  said  to  be  skilled  in  aU  Sama-texts  and  to  have  created 
Brahmanaspati  above  all  creatures  {visvebhyo  hi  tvd  Ihuvanebhyas  pari 
Tvashtd  'janat  sdmnah  sdmnah  kavih),  and  is  said,  along  with  heaven 
and  earth,  the  waters,  and  the  Bhrigus,  to  have  generated  Agni,  x.  2, 

la 


226  TVASHTRI. 

7  ;  X.  46,  9  {Byava  yam  Agnim  prwiiM  Janishtam  apaa  Tvashtd  Bhri- 
gmo  yam  sahobhih);  compare  i.  95,  2.'^*  He  is  master  of  the  universe 
{hhmanasya  sahhani),  ii.  31,  4;  a  first-born  protector  and  leader,  ix. 
6,  9  {Ibashtdram  agrajdm  gopam  pwroyavanam  a  huve);  compare  i.  13, 
10.  He  is  a  companion  of  the  Angirases,  x,  70,  9  {yad  Angiraaam 
ahhavah  saoh&bhuK),  and  knows  the  region  of  the  gods  {devdnam  pathah 
v/pa  pra  vidvdn  uhn  yahhi).  He  is  supplicated  to  nourish  the  wor- 
shipper and  protect  his  sacrifice.  He  is  dravinodas,  the  bestower  of  bless- 
ings, and  suratna,  possessed  of  abundant  wealth,  x.  70,  9,  and  x.  92, 
1 1 ;  and  is  asked,  like  other  gods,  to  take  pleasure  in  the  hymns  of  his 
worshippers,  and  to  grant  them  riches,  vii.  34,  21  f.  {prati  nah  stomam 
Tvashta  j'usheta  |  Tvashtd  suddtro  vi  dadhdtu  rdyah). 

Tvashtri  is  in  several  passages  connected  with  the  Eibhus,  who,  like 
him,  are  celebrated  as  skilful  workmen  (see  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's 
Lexicon,  «.«.),  who  fashioned  Indra's  chariot  and  horses,  made  their  own 
parents  young,  etc.,  i.  Ill,  1  {tahshm  ratham  siwritam  vidmand  'pasas 
talcshan  hari  Indravdhd  vrishanvasu  \  tahshan  pifrihhyam  Rihhavo 
yuvad  vayah),  i.  161,  7 ;  iv.  33,  3 ;  iv.  35,  5  ;  iv.  36,  3 ;  and  are  spoken 
of  by  Sayana  (on  i.  20,  6)  as  Tvashtri's  pupils  {tahhana-vydpdra- 
kuialasya  Tvashtuh  iishydh  Ribhavah).  These  Eibhus  are  said  to  have 
made  into  four  a  single  new  sacrificial  cup  which  Tvashtri  had  formed 
(i.  20,  6.  uta  tyam  ohamasam  nwoam  Tvashtv/r  devasya  nishhritam  \ 
akwrtta  ehatwah  punah  \  i.  110,  3).  This  exhibition  of  skill  is  said  to 
have  been  performed  by  command  of  the  gods,  and  in  consequence  of  a 
promise  that  its  accomplishment  should  be  rewarded  by  their  exalt- 
ation to  divine  honours,  i.  161,  1-5,  (verse  2,  yadi  eva  harishyatJia 
sdhaffi  devair  yojniyaso  Iha/oishyatha).  Tvashtri  is  in  this  passage  re- 
presented as  becoming  ashamed  and  hiding  himself  among  the  goddesses 
when  he  saw  this  alteration  of  his  work,  verse  4  {yadd  'vdJehyat  eka- 
masdn  ehatwah  kritdn  ad  it  Tvashtd  gndsu  antar  ni  dnaje),  and  as  resent- 
ing this  change  in  his  own  manufacture  as  a  slight  to  himself,  and  as 
having  in  consequence  sought  to  slay  his  rivals,  verse  5  {hanama  endn 
iti  Tvashtd  yad  abramt  chamasafh  ye  devapdnam  anindishuh).  In  another 
place  (iv.  33,  5,  6),  on  the  contrary,  he  is  said  to  have  applauded 


352  yfi^o  is  the  being  who  claims,  in  x.  125,  1  f.  to  sustain  Tvaslitri  and  other  goda 
(ahmn  somam  ahanasmn  bibharmi  ahem  Tvashtaram)  f 


TVASHTRI'S  DAUGHTER  AND  HER  "WEDDING.  227 

their  design,  and  admired  tte  brilliant  results  of  their  skill  {vilhraja- 
mandms  chamasan  aha.  iva  avenat  Tvashta  ehaturo  dadriivdn).^^ 

In  X.  66,  10,  the  Eihhus  are  spoken  of  as  the  supporters  of  the  sky 
{dhartdro  divah  Rihhcmah  suhastdh). 

In  ii.  1,  5,  Agni  is  identified  with  Tvashtri,  as  he  is  also,  however, 
with  many  other  gods  in  other  verses  of  the  same  hymn.  In  i.  95,  5, 
Agni  appears  to  he  designated  hy  the  word  Tvashtri.  In  vi.  47,  19, 
where  Tvashtri  is  spoken  of  as  yoking  his  horses  and  shining  resplen- 
dently  {yuryano  harita  rathe  hhuri  Tvashteha  rajati),  the  commentator 
supposes  that  Indra  is  referred  to.^" 

(2)  Tvashtri' s  daughter  and  Jter  wedding. 

In  X.  17,  1  f.  Tvashtri  is  said  to  have  given  his  daughter  Saranyu  in 
marriage  to  Vivasvat:  "Tvashtd  duhitre  vahatum  irinoti"  iti  idam  vis- 
vam  bhuvanam  sameti  \  Tamasya  mdtd  paryuhyamdnd  mahojaya  Vivas- 
vato  nanasa  \  apaguhann  amrit&m  ma/rtyebhyah  Tcritvi  savarnam  adadur 
Vivasvate  |  utdivindv  ahharad  yat  tad  asid  ajdhdd  u  d/od  mithund  Saran- 
yuh  I  "  Tvashtri  makes  a  wedding  for  his  daughter.  (Hearing)  this 
the  whole  world  assembles.  The  mother  of  Tama,  the  wedded  wife  of 
the  great  Vivasvat,  disappeared.  2.  They  concealed  the  immortal 
(bride)  from  mortals.  Making  (another)  of  like  appearance,  they  gave 
her  to  Vivasvat.  Saranyu  bore  the  two  A^vins,  and  when  she  had 
done  so,  she  deserted  the  two  twins."  These  two  verses  are  quoted  in 
the  Nirukta,  xii.  10  f.,  where  the  following  illustrative  story  is  told  : 
Tatra  itihdsam  dehakshate  \  Tvashtri  Saranyur  Vwasvatah  Aditydd 
yamau  mithuna/a  janaydnohahara  \  sd   savarndm  anydm  pratinidhdya 

"'  See  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  iii.  30,  pp.  210  f.  of  Professor  Hang's  translation. 
The  Bibhus  had  by  their  austere  fervour,  it  is  there  said,  conquered  for  themselves  a 
right  to  partake  in  the  soma  libations  among  the  gods  [Ribhcmo  vai  deveshu  tapasa 
somapitham  abhyajayan),  which,  however,  th^y  were  only  allowed  to  do  along  with 
Savitri  (=Tvashtri?),  to  whom  Prajapati  had  said,  These  are  thy  pupils;  do  thou 
alone  drink  with  them ;  twva  vai  itne  antev&ads  tvam  eva  ehhih  sampiiasva) ;  and  with 
Prajapati.  The  gods,  however,  it  is  said,  loathed  these  deified  mortals  on  account  of 
their  human  smell  {tehhyo  vai  devah  apa  eva  abtbhatsanta  ma/mtshya^ga/ndhat ;  and 
accordingly  placed  two  Dhayyas  (particular  verses)  between  themselves  and  the  Hibhus. 

'54  On  the  obscure  passage,  i.  84,  15,  where  the  name  of  Tvashtri  is  mentioned,  the 
reader  may  consult  Wilson's  translation  and  note,  Professor  Eoth's  explanation  in  his 
Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  49,  and  Professor  Benfey's  version  in  his  Orient  and 
Occident,  ii.  245  f. 


228  TVASHTRrs  DAUGHTER  AND  HER  WEDDING. 

asvam  rv/pafh  krifvd  pradadrdva  \  sa  Vivasvan  Adityah  asvam  eva  rupafh 
kriivd  tarn  mmritya  sambabhuva  \  tato  'hinau  jcy'nate  savwrnaydm 
Manuh  \  "Saxanyu,  the  daughter  of  Tvashtri,  bore  twins  to  Vivasvat, 
the  son  of  Aditi.  She  then  substituted  for  herself  another  female  of 
similar  appearance,  and  fled  in  the  form,  of  a  mare.  Vivasvat  in  lite 
manner  assumed  the  shape  of  a  horse,  and  followed  her.  From  their  in- 
tercourse sprang  two  Asvins,  while  Manu  was  the  offspring  of  Savarna 
(or  the  female  of  like  appearance)."  See  Roth's  interpretation  of  E.V. 
X.  17,  1  ff.  and  remarks  thereon,  in  the  Journal  of  the  Grerman  Oriental 
Society,  iv.  424  f. ;  and  the  same  writer's  translation,  in  his  Illustra- 
tions of  the  Nirukta,  p.  161,  of  a  passage  of  the  Brihaddevata,  quoted 
by  Sayana  on  R.V.  vii.  72,  2,  relating  the  same  story  about  Yivasvat 
and  Saranyu  which  is  given  in  the  Nirukta.  That  passage  is  as  fol- 
lows :  Ahhwvad  mithunam  Tvashtuh  Saranyus  TrUirdh  saha  \  sa  vai 
Saranyum  prayaehhat  svayam,  eva  Vivasvate  \  tatah  Saranyvdm  j'dte  te 
Yamayamyau  Vwasvatah  |  tav  apy  ubhau  yamdv  eva  hy  astdm  Yamyd 
cha  vai  Yamah  \  Srishtvd  Ihwrttuh  pwroksham  iu  Saranyuh  sadriSim 
striyam  |  mhMpya  mitkunau  tasydm  aivd  hhutvd  pradhakrame  \  avijnd- 
ndd  Vivasvdms  tu  tasydm  ajanayad  Manum  \  raj'arshir  dsit  sa  Mwnw 
Vwasvdn  i/oa  tejasd  \  sa  vyndya  apahrdntdm  Saranyum  Stma/rupinim  \ 
Tvdshtrim  prati  jagdmasu  vdj'l  hhutvd  salakshanah  \  Saranyus  tu  Vwas- 
vantam  vyndya  haywrupinam  \  maithundyopaohahrdma  tarn  sa  tattrdru- 
roha  sah  \  taias  tayos  iu  vegena  kuhram  tad  apatad  hhwoi  \  updjighrat 
cha  sd  tv  asva  tat  suhram  garhha-kdmyayd  \  dghrdna-mdtrdt  iukram 
tat  humdrau  samlalhuvatuh  \  Ndsatya§  ehaiva  Basrai  cha  yau  stutdv 
aivindv  api  \  "  Tvashtri  had  twin  children,  (a  daughter)  Saranyu,  and 
(a  son)  Trisiras.  He  gave  Saranyu  in  marriage  to  Vivasvat,  to  whom 
she  bore  Tama  and  Tami,  who  also  were  twins.  Creating  a  female 
like  herself  without  her  husband's  knowledge,  and  making  the  twins 
over  in  charge  to  her,  Saranyu  took  the  form  of  a  mare,  and  departed. 
Vivasvat,  in  ignorance,  begot,  on  £he  female  who  was  left,  Manu,  a  royal 
rishi,  who  resembled  his  father  in  glory.  But  discovering  that  the 
real  Saranyu,  Tvashtri's  daughter,  had  gone  away,  Vivasvat  followed 
her  quickly,  taking  the  shape  of  a  horse  of  the  same  species  as  she. 
Eecognizing  him  in  that  form  she  approached  him  with  the  desire  of 
sexual  connection,  which  he  gratified.  In  their  haste  his  seed  fell 
on  the  ground,  and  she,  being  desirous  of  offspring,  smeUed  it.    From 


HOSTILITY  OP  INDEA  AND  TVASHTRI.  229 

this  act  sprang  the  two  Kumaras  (youths)  Nasatya  and  Dasra,  who  are 
lauded  as  Asvins  (sprung  from  a  horse)." 

In  K.Y.  viii.  26,  21  f.,  as  we  have  already  seen,  p.  144,  Vajni  also  is 
spoken  of  as  Tvashtri's  son-in-law.  "Whether  Yayu's  wife  was  different 
from  Saranyu,  or  whether  there  is  a  discrepancy  between  this  story 
and  the  one  just  referred  to  about  Vivas  vat,  does  not  appear. 

Tvashtri  is  represented  as  having  for  his  most  frequent  attendants  the 
wives  of  the  gods,  i.  22,  9  {Agne  patnir  iha  a  vaha  devandm  uMlr  upa  \ 
Tvashtaram  mma/pitaye) ;  ii.  31,  4 ;  ii.  36,  3 ;  vi.  50,  13 ;  vii.  35,  6 ; 
X.  64,  10;  X.  66,  3.  This,  according  to  Professor  Both,  «.».,  results 
from  the  fact  that  it  is  in  the  wombs  of  females  that  his  creative  action 
is  principally  manifested. 

In  X.  49,  10,  he  is  spoken  of  as  if  he  were  a  deity  of  some  import- 
ance, though  inferior  to  Indra,  since  the  latter  is  said  to  place  in  the 
rivers  a  lucid  element,  which  even  Tvashtri,  though  a  god,  could  not  do 
{ahafk  tad  asu  dharayam  yad  am  na  devai  chana  Tvashta  adh&rayad 
ruiat). 

(3)  Hostility  of  Indra  and  Tvashtri. 

Indra  is  occasionally  represented  as  in  a  state  of  hostility  with 
Tvashtri  and  his  son.'''  Thus  in  iii.  48,  4,  it  is  said  that  Indra  over- 
came him,  and  carried  off  his  soma-juioe,  which  he  drank  from  the 
cups  {Tvashtaram,  Indro  janusha  'hhilhuya  Smmhya  somam  apibat  eha- 
mushu),  and  in  iv.  18,  3,  that  the  same  god  drank  off  the  soma  in  his 
house  {Ibashtur  grihe  apibat  somam  Indrah).  In  explanation  of  these 
allusions,  the  commentator,  who  in  his  note  on  iii.  48,  4,  calls  Tvashtri 
a,n  As\iTa,{Tvashtrindmaham  asur am),  leters  to  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  ii. 
4,  12,  1,  where  it  is  related  that  Tvashtri,  whose  son  had  been  slain 
by  Indra,  began  to  perform  a  soma-sacrifice  in  the  absence  of  the 
latter,  and  refused,  on  the  ground  of  his  homicide,  to  aUow  him  to 
assist  at  the  ceremony ;  when  Indra  interrupted  the  celebration,  and 
drank  off  the  soma  by  force  {Tvashta  hataputro  vmdram  somam  aha/rat  \ 
tasmirm  Indrah  ttpaJuwam  aiehhata  |  tarn  na  upahvayata  "putram  me 

35'  In  i.  80, 14  (see  above,  p.  96),  it  is  said  that  even  Tvashtri  trembles  at  India's 
wrath  vrhen  he  thunders.  But  this  trait  is  merely  introduced  to  indicate  the  terrific 
grandeur  of  Indra' s  manifestations.  In  Vaj.  Sanh.  xx.  44,  Tvashtri  is  said  to  have 
imparted  vigour  to  Indra  {Fuashtd  dadhat  s'mhmam  Indraya  vrishne). 


230  HOSTILITY  OF  INDEA  AND  TVASHTRI. 

vadhlr  "  Hi  |  sa  yajna-wimwm  kritva  prasahs,  somam  apibat  \  These 
words  are  repeated  in  ii.  5,  2,  1).  Compare  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.  6, 
3,  6ff.;  V.  5,  4,  7ff.;  xii.  7,  1,  1;  xii.  8,  3,  Iff. 

The  son  of  Tvaahtri  is  mentioned  in  two  passages  of  the  Eig-veda. 
In  X.  8,  8,  it  is  said :  Sa  pitrymni  ayudhani  vidvan  mdreshifah  Aptyo 
ahhy  ayudhyat  \  trislrshdna'ih  saptara^mim  jdghanvdn  Toashtrasya  chin 
nth  sasrije  Trito  gdh  \  9.  Ehuri  id  Indrah  udinakshmtam  ojo  avahhinat 
satpatir  manyamanam  \  Toashtrasya  chid  Vih'arupasya  gonam  doha- 
Tcrdnas  trlni  iirshd  para  vctrk  |  "This  Trita  Aptya,  knowing  his 
paternal  weapons,  and  impelled  by  Indra,  fought  against  the  three- 
headed  and  seven-rayed  (monster),  and  slaying  him,  he  carried  off  the 
cows  even  of  the  son  of  Tvashtri.  9.  Indra,  the  lord  of  the  good, 
pierced  this  arrogant  being,  who  boasted  of  his  great  force ;  seizing  the 
cows,  he  struck  off  the  three  heads  even  of  Visvarupa  the  son  of 
Tvashtri  (or  of  the  omniform  son  of  Tvashtri)."  (Compare  ii.  11,  19). 
A  loud-shouting  monster  with  three  heads  and  six  eyes,  perhaps  iden- 
tical with  the  son  of  Tvashtri,  is  also  mentioned  in  x.  99,  6,  as  having 
been  overcome  by  Indra  or  Trita  {sa  id  ddsam  tuvircwam  patir  dan 
shalahsham  trisirshdmm  damanyat  \  asya  Trito  nu  ojasd  vridhdno  vipd 
vardham  ayoagrayd  han). 

Visvarupa  is  frequently  mentioned  in  later  works. 

According  to  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  ii.  5,  1,  1  ff.,  he  was  the  priest 
of  the  gods,  while  he  was  sister's  son  (no  further  genealogy  is  given) 
of  the  Asuras.'^^    He  had  three  heads,  called  respectively  the  soma- 

355  I  Subjoin  a  passage  from  the  same  SanHta,  vi.  4,  10,  1  (p.  49  of  India  Office 
MS.,  No.  1702),  relating  to  the  gods  and  Asuras,  their  original  equality  in  good- 
ness and  power,  and  their  respective  priests.  Brihaspatir  devanam  purohitah 
astt  iandamarlcav  asuranam  \  brahmanvmito  devah  man  brahmamanto  'surah  \  te 
'nyonyam  naialcmmmm  abhihhmitvm  |  te  devah  s'andSmar&av  iipamantrm/amta  \ 
tdv  airutam  "  varam  vrinavahai  grahav  eva  nav  atrapi  grihyetam "  iti  \  tshkyam 
etau  sukramcmtMnav  agrihncm  |  tato  devah  devah  abhtman  para  'surah  \  yasyaivam 
vidushah  suhramcmthinau  grihyete  bhmaty  atmana  para  asya  bhratrivyo  bha/vati  \ 
tau  devajf  apcmudya  atmana  Indrayajuhu/suh  \  ityadi  \  "  Brihaspati  was  the  priest  of 
the  gods,  S'anda  and  Marka  the  priests  of  the  Asuras.  The  gods  were  devout 
and  so  were  the  Asuras.  Neither  could  overcome  the  other.  The  gods  invited 
S'anda  and  Marka,  who  said,  '  Let  us  ask  a  favour ;  let  draughts  also  be  offered 
to  us.'  The  gods,  in  consequence,  allowed  to  them  the  ^ukra  and  manthin  draughts, 
and  by  doing  so  became  gods,  and  the  Asuras  were  worsted.  The  man  who  knows 
this  and  acts  accordingly  prospers  himself  and  his  enemy  succumbs.  The  gods 
sent  away  S'anda  and  Marka  and  offered  up  themselves  to  Indra."  Compare  the 
S'at.  Br.  iv.  2,  1,  4  ff.    According  to  the  Kathaka  25,  7,  quoted  in  Indische  Studien 


HOSTILITY  OF  IKDEA  AND  TVASHTRI.  231 

drinker,  the  wine-drinker,  and  the  food-eater.  He  declared  in  public 
that  the  sacrifices  should  be  shared  by  the  gods  only,  while  he  priyately 
recommended  that  they  should  be  offered  to  the  Asuras.  Eor,  as  the 
author  of  the  Brahmana  remarks,  it  is  customary  for  people  in  pubHc 
to  promise  every  one  a  share,  whereas  it  is  only  those  to  whom  the 
promise  is  privately  made  who  obtain  its  fulfilment.  Indra  was 
alarmed  lest  his  dominion  should  by  this  procedure  of  Vi^varupa  be 
overturned,  and  he  accordingly  smote  off  his  heads  with  a  thunderbolt. 
The  three  heads  were  turned  into  birds,  the  one  called  Soma-drinker 
became  a  Kapinjala  (or  Fraucoline  partridge),  the  Wine-drinker  a 
Kalavinka  (or  sparrow),  and  the  Food-eater  a  Tittiri  (or  partridge),  etc. 
( Visvarupo  vai  Tvashtrah  purohito  devdnam  dsit  svasrlyo  'sv/ranam  | 
tasya  trini  iirshany  asan  somapanam  surdpdnam  annadanam  \  sa  prat- 
yaksham  devebhyo  Ihagam  madat  'parohsham  asurebhyah  \  sarvasmai 
_  pratyahsham,  Ihdgam  vadanti  \  yasmai  eva  paroksham  vadcmti  tasya 
bhdgah  uditah  \  tmmdd  Indro  'bibhed  Idrin  vai  rasJitram  parydvarttayati 
iti  tasya  vcyram  dddya  sirshany  achhinat  |  yat  somapanam  aslt  sa  kapin- 
jalo  'bhavat  \  yat  surdp&nam  sa  kalavmkah  |  yad  mmddanaMi  sa  tittirih). 
The  S'atapatha  Brahmana  tells  the  story  in  some  respects  at  greater 
length,  i.  6,  3,  1  ff. :  Tvashtur  ha  vai  puttras  triiirshdh  shadakshah  dsa  | 
tasya  triny  eva  mukhany  dsus  tad  yad  evamrupah  dsa  tasmad  Viharupo 
ndma  \  2.  Tasya  somapanam  eva  ekaih  mukham  asa  \  sv/rdpdnam  ekam  \ 
anyasmai  asandya  ekam  \  tarn  Indro  didvesha  tasya  tdni  kirshdni  pra- 
chichheda  \  3.  Sa  yat  somapanam  dsa  tatah  hapinjalah  samabhavat  | 
tasmat  sa  babhrukah  iva  babhrur  iva  hi  somo  rdj'd  \  4.  Atha  yat  swd- 
pdnam  asa  tatah  kalminhah  samabhavat  |  so  'bhimddyatkah  iva  vadati  \ 
abhimddyann  iva  hi  surdm  pitvd  vadati  \  5.  Atha  yad  anyasmai  asandya 
dsa  tatas  tittirih  samabhavat  \  tasmdt  sa  viivarupatamah  iva  |  santy  eva 
ghritastokdh  iva  tvad  madhustokdh  iva  tvat  pa/rneshv  dschutitdh  \  evam- 
rupa/fh  hi  sa  tena  aSanam  dvayat  \  6.  Sa  Tvashtd  chukrodha  "  kuvin  me 
putram  ovadMd"  iti  so  ^pend/ram  eva  somam  djahre  \  sa  yatha  'yam 
somah  prasutah  evam  aprndrali  eva  dsa  \  7.  Ind/ro  ha  vai  ikshdnchakre 

iii.  467  (compare  As'v.  S'rauta  Sutras,  i.  4,  9),  the  gods  had  four  hotri  priests, 
Bhupati,  Bhuvauapati,  Bhutanampati,  and  Bhuta,  of  whom  the  first  three  died  from 
discharging  their  duty,  when  the  fourth  became  afraid  and  fled,  etc.  Professor  Weber 
compares  the  story]  about  Agni,  quoted  above,  p.  203,  from  the  Taitt.  S.  On  the 
original  equality  of  the  gods  and  Asuras  see  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  61  ff.,  and 
note  22,  p.  IS,  above. 


232  HOSTILITY  OF  INDEA  AND  TVASHTRI. 

"  idam  vai  ma  somad  antaryantV  iti  \  sa  yatha  laMydn  abaliyasah  evam 
anvfahutah  eva  yo  dronakalah  iuhrah  asa  tarn  IhakshayanchaMra  \  sa  ha 
enam  jihi'ihsa  |  so  'sya  vUvann  eva  pranehhyo  dudrava  muhhadha  eva  asya 
atha  sarvehhyo  'nyehhyahpranelhyah  \  8.  Sa  Tvashta  chulcrpdha  "huvidme 
'nupahutah  somam  abJialeshad  "  iti  \  sa  svayam  eva  yajnameiasam  chakre  \ 
sa  yo  dronahalah   iukrah   parihshtah   asa   tarn   pravarttayanohalcara 

"  Indra-iatrur  vardhasva"  iti |   10.  Atha  yad  abravid  Indra-^atrur 

vardhasva  "  iti  tasmad  u  ha  enam  Indrah  eva  jaghana  \  atha  yad  ha 
iaivad  woahhad  "  Indrasya  iatrur  vardhasva  "  iti  iaivad  u  ha  sa  eva 
Indram  ahanishyat  \  "  Tvashtri  had  a  son  with,  three  heads  and  six 
eyes,  who  had  three  mouths ;  and  hence  was  called  Vi^varupa  (Omni- 
form).  2.  One  of  his  mouths  was  the  Soma-drinker,  the  second  the 
Wine-drinker,  and  the  third  was  destined  for  consuming  other  things. 
-Indra  hated  this  Tisvarupa,  and  cut  off  his  three  heads.  3.  From  the 
Soma-drinker  sprang  a  Kapinjala  (Francoline  partridge) ;  and  hence 
this  bird  is  brown,  because  king  Soma  is  of  that  colour.  4.  From  the 
Wine-drinker  sprang  a  Kalavinka  (sparrow) ;  and  m  consequence  this 
bird  utters  sounds  like  a  drunkard,  just  as  a  person  does  who  has  drunk 
wine.  5.  From  the  third  mouth  sprang  a  Tittiri  (common  partridge), 
which  in  consequence  has  the  greatest  variety  of  colours,  for  drops  of 
ghee  and  of  honey  seem  to  be  sprinkled  in  different  places  on  its  wings : 
for  by  this  mouth  he  (Yisvarupa)  received  such  sorts  of  food.  6. 
Tvashtri  was  incensed ;  and  saying  "  He  has  killed  my  son,"  he  offered 
a  libation  of  soma  to  the  gods,  excluding  Indra.  7.  Indra  perceived 
that  he  was  excluded  from  partaking  the  soma,  and  as  a  stronger  acts 
towards  a  weaker  being,  he  without  invitation  drank  off  the  purified 
soma  in  the  vessel.  But  it  affected  him  injuriously ;  it  issued  from  his 
mouth  and  then  from  all  the  other  outlets  of  his  body.  8.  Tvashtri  was 
angry  that  Indra  had  drunk  the  soma  without  invitation ;  and  himself 
broke  off  the  sacrifice,  employing  the  soma  which  was  left  in  the  vessel 
(in  another  rite)  using  the  formula  '  Thou  of  whom  Indra  is  the  enemy, 
flourish! '  10.  As  he  used  the  words  accented  so  as  to  produce  this 
sense,  Indra  slew  him.  Had  he  said  '  Flourish,  enemy  of  Indra,'  he 
would  have  slain  Indra,  instead  of  Indra  slaying  him." 

The  version  of  the  same  legend  from  the  Kathaka,  12,  10,  in  Indische 
Studien,  iii.  464,  gives  some  other  particulars ;  Indra  was  afraid  that 
Visvarupa  was  going  to  become  everything  ("  all  this  " :  sa  Indro  'man- 


HOSTILITY  OF  INDRA  AND  TVASHTRI.  233 

yata  "  ai/am  vava  idam  hhavisTM/ati),  and  he  accordingly  prevailed  on  a 
carpenter  to  run  and  cut  off  his  heads,  which  the  artizan  accordingly  did 
with  his  axe  (sa  takshanam  tishthantam  alrmid  "  adhava  asya  imani 
klrsJidni  ehhindhi"  |  tast/a  taksha  wpad/rutya pmra&una  iirshany  achhinat). 

Compare  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.  6,  3,  Iff.;  v.  5,  4,  2  ff. ;  and 
the  Mahabharata,  TJdyoga  Parva,  228  ff. 

In  the  Markandeya  Purana,  section  77,  Tvashtri  is  identified  with 
Vi^vakarman  and  Prajapati.  Compare  verses  1,  10,  15,  16,  34,  36, 
38,  and  41.  Professor  Weber  (Omina  und  Portenta,  p.  391  f.)  refers 
to  a  passage  of  the  Adbhutadhyaya  of  the  Kausika  Sutras,  where 
Tvashtri  is  identified  with  Savitri  and  Prajapati. 


234 


SECTION  XV. 

THE  AS'VINS. 

(1)  The  character  and  parentage  of  the  Asvins,  their  relations  to  Surya, 
their  attributes  and  accompaniments. 

The  Asvins  seem  to  tave  been  a  puzzle  even  to  the  oldest  Indian 
commentators.     Taska  thus  refers  to  them  in  the  Nirukta,  xii.  1 : 

Atha  ato  dyusthanah  devatdh  |  tasam  Ahinau  prathamdgaminau 
bhavatah  |  Aivinau  yad  vyairmvate  sarvam  rasena  anyo  jyotisha  anyah  \ 
"Aivavr  ahinav"  ity  Awrnabhavah  \  tat  Mv  Aivinau  \  "  Dyavaprithi- 
vydv"  ity  eke  \  " ahoratrav"  ity  eke  \  " Suryachandramasdv"  ity  eke  \ 
"rdjdnau  punyakritdv  "  ity  aitihasikdh  |  tayoh  kdlah  urddham  urdh- 
vardtrdt  prakdiibhdvasya  anuvishhtambham  anu  ]  tamobhdgo  hi  ma- 
dh/yamo  jyotirbhdgah  ddityah  \  5.  Tayoh  kdlah  suryodayaparyantah  \ 

"  Next  in  order  are  the  deities  whose  sphere  is  the  heaven ;  of  these 
the  Asvins  are  the  first  to  arrive.  They  are  called  Asvins  because 
they  pervade  {vyainmdte)  everything,  the  one  with  moisture,  the  other 
with  light.  Aurnabhava  says  they  are  called  Asvins,  from  the  horses 
{aivaih,  on  which  they  ride).  Who,  then,  are  these  Asvins  ?  'Heaven 
and  Earth,' '"  say  some ;  '  Day  and  Night,'  say  others ;  '  The  Sun  and 
Moon,'  say  others  ;  '  Two  kings,  performers  of  holy  acts,'  say  the 
legendary  writers.  Their  time  is  subsequent  to  midnight,  whilst  the 
manifestation  of  light  is  delayed;  [and  ends  with  the  rising  of  the 
sun,  ibid.  xii.  5].  The  dark  portion  [of  this  time]  denotes  the  inter- 
mediate (godj=  Indra?),  the  light  portion  Aditya  (the  Sun)."  '*^ 

'6'  Compare  S.  P.  Br.  iv.  1,  5,  16,  Atha  yad  "Aivinm"  iti  ime  ha  vai  dyam- 
prithivt  pratyahsham  asvinau  \  ime  hi  idam  sarvam  asnuvatam  \  "  The  Heaven  and 
Earth  are  manifestly  the  A^vinB,  for  they  (Heaven  and  Earth)  have  pervaded  every- 
thing." 

358  See  the  different  interpretation  given  by  Professor  Goldstficker,  at  the  close  of 
this  section.  The  words  are  obscure. 


CHAEACTER  AND  PAEENTAGE  OP  THE  ASTINS,  ETC.        235 

Professor  Eoth,  on  the  strengtli  of  this  passage,  considers  that 
Taska  identifies  the  two  A^vins  with  Indra  and  the  Sun  (Illustrations 
of  JS^irukta,  p.  159).™ 

In  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  425,  the  same 
author  thus  speaks  of  these  gods :  "  The  two  A^vins,  though,  like  the 
ancient  interpreters  of  the  Veda,  we  are  by  no  means  agreed  as  to  the 
conception  of  their  character,  hold,  nevertheless,  a  perfectly  distinct 
position  in  the  entire  body  of  the  Vedic  deities  of  light.  They  are  the 
earliest  hringers  of  light  in  the  morning  sky,  who  in  their  chariot 
hasten  onward  before  the  dawn,  and  prepare  the  way  for  her."  ^ 

In  a  passage  of  the  E.V.,  x.  17,  2  (quoted  above  in  the  section  on 
Tvashtri,  p.  227),  the  Aivins  are  represented  as  the  twin  sons  of  Vi- 
vasvat  and  Saranyu.  They  are  also  called  the  sons  of  the  sky  {divo 
napaia)  in  E.Y.  i.  182,  1  ;  i.  184,  1 5^"  x.  61,  4 ;  and  in  i.  46,  2, 
sindhumafard,  the  offspring  of  the  Ocean '°'  (whether  aerial  or  terres- 
trial). 

The  Taitt.  S.  vii.  2,  7,  2,  says  that  the  A^vins  are  the  youngest  of 
the  gods  {aivinau  vai  devdndm  anvjavarau). 

In  i.  180,  2,  the  sister  of  the  Asvins  is  mentioned,  by  whom  the 
commentator  naturally  understands  Ushas  {masristhaniya  svayaihsdrini 
va  ushah).  In  vii.  71,  1,  and  elsewhere  (see  above,  p.  188,  191), 
Ushas  is  called  the  sister  of  Night,  whilst  in  i.  123,  5,  she  is  said 
to  be  the  sister  of  Bhaga  and  Varuna. 

The  Asvins  are  in  many  parts  of  the  Eig-veda  connected  with 
Surya,  the  youthful  daughter  of  the  sun  (called  also  UrjanI  in  one 

359  E.V.  i.  181,  4,  is,  according  to  Eoth,  quoted  by  Taska  in  illustration  of  his 
view  :  "  Bom  here  and  there  these  two  have  striven  forward  (?)  with  spotless  bodies 
according  to  their  respective  characters.  One  of  you,  a  conqueror  and  a  sage,  [is  the 
son]  of  the  strong  one  (?) ;  the  other  is  born  onward,  the  son  of  the  sky "  [ihehajata 
aama/vavasltdm  arepasa  tanva  namabhih  svaih  |  jishnwr  vdm  anyah  aitmakhasya 
surir  dim  am/ah  subfiagafy  putrah  uhe).  Compare  Eoth's  transl.  in  lUustrations  of 
Nirukta,  p.  159.' 

300  For  some  speculations  of  Professor  MiiUer  and  Weber,  on  the  Asvins,  see  the 
lectures  of  the  former,  2nd  series,  p.  489  f.,  and  the  Indische  Studien  of  the  latter, 
vol.  V.  p.  234. 

3W  In  i.  181,  4,  only  one  of  them  is  said  to  be  the  son  of  the  sky.  See  note  369,  above. 

38'*  On  this  the  commentator  remarks  that,  although  it  is  the  Sun  and  Moon  that 
are  sprung  from  the  sea,  yet  the  same  epithet  applies  equally  to  the  As'vins  who,  in 
the  opinion  of  some,  are  identical  with  the  former  {yadyapi  surya-chanchramasav  eva 
aamu^ajcm  tathapy  Asvinoh  keshdnchit  mate  tadrupatvdt  tathdtvam). 


236  CHARACTER  AND  PARENTAGE  OF  THE  AS'VINS, 

place,  i.  119,  2,  as  Sayana  imderstands  it,  suryasya  duhita),^^  who  is 
represented  as  having,  for  the  sake  of  acquiring  friends,  chosen  them 
for  her  two  husbands,  i.  119,  5  (a  vam  patitvam  sakhyaya  jagmushl 
yoshd  'vrinita  jenya  yuvam  patt) ;  iy.  43,  6  {tad  u  shu  vam  ajiram  cheti 
yanam  yena  patl  IJuwathah  SurydyaK) ;  vii.  69,  3  (w  vam  ratho  vadhvd 
yddamanah  antdn  divo  hddhate  varttanibhydm')  ;  x.  39,  11,  na  tarn 
rdjdndv  Adite  kutai  chana  na  amhah  ainoti  duritam  nahir  hhayam  \  yam 
Asvind  suhavd  rudravarttanl  puroratham  krinuthah  patnyd  saha  \ 
"  Neither  distress,  nor  calamity,  nor  fear  from  any  quarter  assails  the 
man  whom  ye  A^vins,  along  with  [your]  wife,  cause  to  lead  the  van 
in  his  car;"  '"  and  as  loving  to  ascend  their  chariot,  i.  34,  5  ;  i.  116, 
17;  i.  117,  13  {yuvo  ratham  duhitd  suryasya  saha  Sriya  Ndsatyd 
'vrinita);  i.  118,  5  (a  vam  ratham  yuvatis  tishihad  atra  j'ushtvl  nara 
duhitd  Suryasya')  ;  iv.  43,  2  ;  v.  73,  5  (o  yad  vdm  Suryd  ratham 
tishthat,  etc.) ;  vi.  63,  5  f.  ;  vii.  68,  3 ;  vii.  69,  4;  viii.  8,  10;  viii. 
22,  1  ;  viii.  29,  8.^ 

R.V.  i.  116,  17,  is  as  follows:  d  vdm  ratham  duhitd  suryasya  kdr-- 
shmevdtishthad  arvatd  jayantl  \  visve  devdh  anv  amanyanta  hridbhih 
" sam  iriyd  Ndsatyd  sachethe"  |  "The  daughter  of  the  sun  stood 
upon  your  chariot,  attaining  first  the  goal,  as  if  with  a  race-horse. 
All  the  gods  regarded  this  with  approbation  in  their  hearts  (exclaiming) 
'  Te,  o  Nasatyas,  associate  yourselves  with  good  fortune.' "  On  this 
passage  Sayana  remarks  as  follows  :  Savitd  sva-duhitaram  Surydkhydm 
Somdya  rdjne  praddtum  aichhat  |  tdm  Surydm  sarve  devdh  varaydmdsuh  \ 
te  anyonyam  uchur  "Adityam  avadhim  Jcritvd  djim  dhdvdma  yo  asmakam 
ujjeshyati  tasya  iyam  bhavishyati"  iti  \  tatra  Ahindv  udajayatdm  \  sd 
cha  Suryd  jita/oatas  tayoh  ratham  druroha  \  "  atra  Pry'dpatir  vai 
somdya  rdjne  dvMtwram  prdyachhad"  ityddiham  Irdhmanam  anusandhe- 
yam  \  "  S'avitri  had  destined  his  daughter  Surya  to  be  the  wife  of  king 
Soma.  But  all  the  gods  were  anxious  to  obtain  her  hand,  and  resolved 
that  the  victor  in  a  race  which  they  agreed  to  run,  with  the  sun  for 
their  goal,  should  get  her.  She  was  accordingly  won  by  the  Asvins, 
and  ascended  their  chariot."     Sayana  goes  on  to  quote  the  commence- 

363  Professor  Roth,  s.v.,  takes  the  word  for  a  personification  of  utya,  "  nonrishment." 
's*  The  construction  of  the  words  patni/a  saha,  "  with  wife,"  is  not  however  very 
clear,  as  they  may  perhaps  refer  to  the  wife  of  the  worshipper, 
365  See  also  A.V.  vi.  82,  2. 


THEIR  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES,  ETC.  237 

ment  of  the  story,  as  told  in  the  Brahmana.  The  words  agree  with 
those  which  introduce  a  reference  to  Surya's  marriage  to  Soma  in  Ait. 
Br.  IT.  7,  but  the  story  there  told  (of  which  an  abstract  will  be  found 
in  a  note  further  on)  does  not  coincide  with  that  of  which  the  com- 
mentator gives  a  summary. 

Allusion  is  also  made  to  Surya  in  connection  with  the  Asvins  in 
X.  85,  9,  where,  however,  they  no  longer  appear  as  her  husbands, — a 
fact  which  seems  to  involve  a  contradiction  between  the  passages  cited 
above,  and  this:  9.  Soma  vadhuyur  dbhavat  ASvind  'stdm  ubhd  vara  | 
Suryam  yat  patye  iamsantlm  manasd  Savitd  'daddf  \  14.  Yad  Aivind 
prichhamdndv  aydtam  trichakrem  vahatum  Surydyah  j  viSve  devdh  anu 
tad  vdm  <ydnan  putrah  pita/rdv  avrinita  Pmhd  I  "  Soma  was  the 
wooer,  the  Asvins  were  the  two  friends  of  the  bridegroom,^  when 
Savitri  gave  to  her  husband  Surya,  consenting  in  her  mind.  14.  "When 
ye  came,  Asvins,  to  the  marriage  procession  of  Surya,  to  make  en- 
quiries, aU  the  gods  approved,  and  Pushan,'"  as  a  son,  chose  you 
for  his  parents." 

The  daughter  of  the  Sun  is  connected  with  the  Soma  plant  in  ix.  1, 
6  {punati  te  pmrisrutam  somam  suryasya  duMta  \  "  The  Daughter  of 
the  Sun  purifies  thy  distilled  soma,"  etc;  and  in  ix.  113,  3,  she  is 
said  to  have  brought  it  after  it  had  been  expanded  by  the  rain  {pwr- 
janyavriddham  mahisham  tarn  suryasya  duhitd  "hharat). 

If  we  look  on  Soma  as  the  plant  of  that  name,  the  connection 
between  him  and  Surya  is  not  very  clear ;  but  if  Soma  be  taken  for 
the  moon,  as  he  evidently  appears  to  be  in  x.  85,  3  ("When  they 
crush  the  plant,  he  who  drinks  fancies  that  he  has  drunk  Soma ;  but 
no  one  tastes  of  him  whom  the  priests  know  to  be  Soma;  "Y^^  it  is  not 
unnatural,  from  the  relation  of  the  two  luminaries,  that  he  should 
have  been  regarded  as  son-in-law  of  the  sun. 

The  Asvins  are  described  as  coming  from  afar,  from  the  sky  or  from 
the  lower  air,  and  are  besought  to  allow  no  other  worshippers  to  stop 

36«  Compare  A.V.  xi.  8,  1,  "When  Manyu  brought  his  bride  from  the  house  of 
Sankalpa,  who  were  the  bridegroom's  friends .' "  etc.  (yad  Manyur  jaydm  avahat 
Scmlealpasya  grihad  adhi  |  ke  ascm  jam/ah  Ice  varah  &ah  u  jyeshthavaro  'thmiat). 

36'  Weber  asks  (Ind.  S.  t.  183,  187,)  whether  Pushan  here  is  not  meant  to  desig- 
nate Soma,  the  bridegroom.  In  vi.  58,  4,  the  gods  are  said  to  have  given  Pushan  to 
Surya.     See  aboTe  p.  179. 

S63  See  at  the  close  of  the  next  section  on  Soma,  and  Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  v.  179. 


238      CHAEACTEE  AND  PAEENTAGE  OF  THE  AS'YINS, 

them,  i.  22,  2  (divispriia) ;  i.  44,  5  (a  no  yatam  ddvo  aohha  prithvoyah 
md  vdm  amje  ni  yaman  devaycmtah)  ;  viii.  5,  30  {tena  no  vdjinlvasu 
pmrS/oatas  chid  dgatam)  ;  viii.  8,  3,  4,  7  (4.  A  no  yatam  divas  pa/ri 
(mtwrihhat) ;  viii.  9,  2 ;  viii.  10,  1 ;  viii.  26, 17  ;  or  as  being  in,  or  arriv- 
ing from,  different  unknown  quarters,  -whether  above  or  below,  far  or 
near,  and  among  different  races  of  men,  i.  184, 1 ;  v.  73, 1  {yad  adya  sthah 
pardvati  yad  a/rvdvati) ;  v.  74,  10  {asvind  yad  ha  Jcarhi  chit  iuiruydtam 
imam  hmam)  ;  vii.  70,  3 ;  vii.  72,  5  (a  paichdtdd  ndsatya  a  pwastdd  a 
aivind  yatam  adhardd  udaktdt  |  a  visvatah)  ;  viii.  10,  5  {yad  adya 
aivinav  apdg  yat  prdk  stho  vajinivasu  |  yad  Bruhywoi  Ana/si  Turvaie 
Yadau  htwe  vdm  atha  md  dgatam) ;  viii.  62,  5.  Sometimes  the  wor- 
shipper enquires  after  their  locality,  v.  74,  2,  3 ;  vi.  63,  1 ;  viii.  62,  4 
{kuha  sthah  huha  jagmathuh  huha  iyeneva  petathuh).  In  one  place 
(viii.  8,  23,)  they  are  said  to  have  three  stations  {trini  paddni  Ahinor 
dvih  santi  guhd  parah).  The  time  of  their  appearance  is  properly  the 
early  dawn,  when  they  yoke  their  horses  to  their  car  and  descend  to 
earth  to  receive  the  adorations  and  offerings  of  their  votaries,  i.  22,  1 
(prdtaryujd  vi  hodhayaivinau)  ;  i.  184,  1;  iv.  45,  2;  vii.  67,  2;  vii. 
69,  5;  vii.  71,  1-3;  vii.  72,  4;  vii.  73,  1;  viii.  5,  1,  2 ;  viii.  9,  17; 
X.  39,  12;  X.  40,  1,  3 ;  x.  41,  1,  2;  x.  61,  4).  I  cite  a  few  of  tfiese 
texts :  vii.  67,  2.  Aioohi  Agnih  samidhdno  asme  upo  adrUran  tamasai 
chid  amtdh  \  acheti  ketw  ushashah  purastdt  iriye  divo  duhitv/r  jdyamd-^ 
nah  I  3.  Ahhi  vdm  nunam  asvind  suhotd  stomaih  sishakti  ndsatya  vi/vak- 
vdn  I  "Agni,  being  kindled,  has  shone  upon  us;  even  the  remotest 
ends  of  the  darkness  have  been  seen ;  the  light  in  front  of  TJshas,  the 
daughter  of  the  sky,  has  been  perceived,  springing  up  for  the  illumi- 
nation (of  all  things).  3.  Now,  A^vins,  the  priest  invokes  you  with 
his  hymns,"  etc. 

viii.  5,  1.  Durdd  iheva  yat  sail  armapsur  aiUvitat  \  vi  Ihdnum 
viivadhd  'tanat  \  2.  Nrvoad  dasrd  mamyiyd  rathena  prithupdjasd  \ 
sachethe  Aivind  Ushasam  \  "When  the  rosy-hued  Dawn,  though  far 
away,  gleams  as  if  she  were  near  at  hand,  she  spreads  the  light  in  all 
directions.  2.  Te,  wonder-working  A^vins,  like  men,  follow  after 
TJshas  in  your  car  which  is  yoked  by  your  will,  and  shines  afar." 

viii.  9,  17.  Pra  lodhaya  Ushah  Ahina  \  "Wake,  o  great  and  divine 
TJshas,  the  A^vins,"  etc. 

X.  39,  12.  A  tena  ydtarh  manaso  javiyasd  ratham  yam  vdm  Ribhanas 


THEIE  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES,  ETC.  239 

» 

chakrwr  Aivina  \  yasya  yoge  duhita  jayate  Divah  uhhe  ahani  sudine 
vivasvatah  |  "  Come,  Asvins,  with  that  car  swifter  than  thought  which 
the  Eibhus  fashioned  for  you,  at  the  yoking  of  which  the  daughter  of 
the  sky  (TJshas)  is  horn,  and  day  and  night  become  propitious  to  the 
worshipper." 

X,  61,  4.  Krishna  yad  gosJm  a/runuhu  sidad  Dwo  napdtav  Asvina  hive 
vdm  I  "  When  the  dark  [night]  stands  among  the  tawny  cows  (rays 
of  dawn),  I  invoke  you,  Ailvins,  sons  of  the  Sky." 

In  i,  34,  10,  Savitri  is  said  to  set  their  shining  oar  in  motion  before 
the  dawn  {ymor  hi  purvam  Scwita  ushaso  raiham  ritaya  chitram 
ghritavantam  ishyati). 

In  other  passages  their  time  is  not  so  well  defined.  Thus,  in  i.  157, 
1,  it  is  said  :  dbodhi  Agnir  jmah  udeti  suryo  vi  TTshai  ehandra  mahl  avo 
a/rchishd  \  ayukshatam  aivina  ydtwoe  ratham  prdsdvld  devah  Smitd  jagat 
prithak  \  "Agni  has  awoke;  the  sun  rises  from  the  earth;  the  great 
and  bright  Ushas  has  dawned  with  her  light ;  the  Asvins  have  yoked 
their  car  to  go ;  the  divine  Savitri  has  enlivened  every  part  of  the 
world,"  where  both  the  break  of  dawn  and  the  appearance  of  the 
Asvins  appear  to  be  made  simultaneous  with  the  rising  of  the  sun. 
The  same  is  the  case  in  vii.  72,  4 :  vi  cha  id  uchhanti  aMnd  ushasah 
pra  vdm  hrahmdni  Mravo  hharante  |  wrdhoam  Ihdnum  Smitd  devo  aired 
irihad  agnayah  samidhd  jar  ante  |  "  The  Dawns  break,  Asvins ;  poets 
offer  to  you  prayers ;  the  divine  Savitri  has  assumed  his  lofty  bril- 
liance; fires  crackle  mightily,  (fed  by)  fael." 

In  V.  76,  3,  the  Asvins  are  invited  to  come  at  difierent  times,  at 
morning,  mid-day,  and  sunset  {uta  d  yatam  sangave  prdtar  ahno  madhy- 
andine  liditd  suryasya) ;  and  in  viii.  22,  14,  it  is  similarly  said  that 
they  are  invoked  in  the  evening  as  well  as  at  dawn.  It  need  not,- 
however,  surprise  us  that  they  should  be  invited  to  attend  the  difierent 
ceremonies  of  the  worshippers,  and  therefore  conceived  to  appear  at 
hours  distinct  from  the  supposed  natural  periods  of  their  manifestation. 

It  may  seem  unaccountable  that  two  deities  of  a  character  so  little 
defined,  and  so  difScult  to  identify,  as  the  Asvins,  should  have  been 
the  object  of  so  enthusiastic  a  worship  as  appears  from  the  numerous 
hymns  dedicated  to  them  in  the  E.V.  to  have  been  paid  to  them  in 
ancient  times.  The  reason  may  have  been  that  they  were  hailed  as 
the  precursors  of  returning  day,  after  the  darkness  and  dangers  of 


240     CHAEACTER  AND  PARENTAGE  OF  THE  AS'VINS, 

the  night.  In  some  passages  (viii.  35,  16  ff.)  they  are  represented  as 
being,  like  Agni,  the  chasers  away  of  evil  spirits  Qiatam  raksMmi) ; 
vii.  73,  4  (rahhohana). 

The  Asvins  are  said  to  be  young,  ywdna  (vii.  67,  10),  ancient, 
pratna  (vi.  62,  5),  beautiful,  valgu  (vi.  62,  5 ;  vi.  63,  1),  honey-hued, 
madhmarna  (viii.  26,  6),  lords  of  lustre,  iulhas  pati  (viii.  22,  14; 
X.  93,  6),  bright,  iuhhrd  (vii.  68,  1),  of  a  golden  brillianoy,  hiranya- 
peiasa  (viii.  8,  2),  agile,  nritu  (vi.  63,  5),  fleet  as  thought,  mmiojmma 
(viii.  22,  16)  swift  as  young  falcons,  iyenasya  cMj  jcwasd  nutanena 
a  gachhatam  (v.  78,  4),  possessing  many  forms,  pwu  va/rpdmai  Aivina 
dadhdnd  (i.  117,  9),  wearing  lotus  garlands,  pushharasrc^d  (x.  184, 
2,  and  A.V.  iii.  22,  4,  S'atap.  Br.  iv.  1,  5,  16),  strong,  sahrd  (x. 
24,  4),  mighty,  purukakatamd  (vi.  62,  5),  terrible,  rudra  (v.  75,  3 ; 
X.  93,  7),  possessed  of  wondrous  powers,  mdyind  or  mdydvind  (vi.  63, 
5 ;  X.  24,  4),  and  profound  in  wisdom,  gambhiraohetasd  (viii.  8,  2). 
They  rush  onward  excitedly,  madaehyuid'^^  (viii.  22,  16  ;  viii.  35, 19), 
and  traverse  a  golden,  hiranyavartanl,  or  terrible,  rudrcmmrtant,  path 
(v.   75,  3  ;  viii.  5,  11  ;  viii.  8,  1 ;  viii.  22,  1,  14;  x.  39,  11).'™ 

The  car,  golden,  or  sunlike,  in  all  its  various  parts  and  appur- 
tenances, wheels,  fellies,  axle,  pole,  reins,  etc.,  i.  180,  1  {hiranyayd^ 
vdm  pavayah) ;  iv.  44,  4,  5  {hiranyayena  rathena) ;  v.  77,  3  {hiranyatvan 
rathali) ;  vui.  6,  28,  29,  35  {ratham  hiranyweandJiuram  hwanydlhUum 
Alvind  I  d  hi  sthdtho  divisprUam  \  29.  hwanyayt  vdm  rabhir  Ishd  ahho 
hiranyayah  |  whhd  chalcrd  hiranyayd)  ;  viii.  8,  2  {rathena  suryatvachd) ; 
viii.  22,  9,  on  which  they  ride,  flying  as  on  bird's  wings,  i.  183,  1 
(yenopaydthah  sulcrito  duronam  tridhdtund  patatho  vir  na  parnaiJt),  was 
formed  by  the  Eibhus,  x.  39,  12  (see  above,  p.  238),  and  is  singular  in 
its  formation,   being  three-wheeled   {triehahra),  and    triple  in  some 

S69  Professor  Roth,  s.».,  renders  this  epithet  by  "moving  in  excitement,"  etc.,  and 
Professor  MUlIer,  Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  p.  118,  translates  it,  when  applied  to  Indra,  his 
horses,  or  the  Asvins,  by  "  furiously  or  wildly  moving  about." 

'"'  Two  epithets  very  commonly  applied  to  them  are  dasra  and  nSsatya.  The 
former  term  is  explained  by  Sayana  to  signify  destroyers  of  enemies,  or  of  diseases 
(note  on  i.  3,  3),  or  beautiful  (on  viii,  75,  1).  Professor  Roth,  s.v.,  understands  it  to 
signify  wonder-workers.  The  second  word,  nasatya,  is  regarded  by  Sayana,  follow- 
ing one  of  the  etymologies  given  by  Taska  (vi.  13),  as  equivalent  to  satya,  truthful. 
If  this  is  the  sense,  satya  itself  might  as  well  have  been  used.  In  the  later  literature 
Dasra  and  Nasatya  were  regarded  as  the  separate  names  of  the  two  As'vins.  See 
Miiller's  Lectures,  2nd  series,  p.  491. 


THEIE  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES,  ETC.  241 

otlier  parts  of  its  coastruction,  its  fellies,  supports,  etc.  {trivrit  \  trwcm- 
dhv/ra  I  trayah  paoayah  \  trayah  shambhamh  akahhitasah  ardbhe),^''^  i.  34, 
2,  9;  i.  47,  2;  i.  118, 1,2;  i.  157,3;  vii.71.  4;  viii.74,  8;  x.41,  1. 
This  car  moves  lightly  {raghivmrttani),  viii.  9,  8,  and  is  swifter  than 
thought  (manaso  jmiyan  rathah),i.  117,  2;  i.  118,  1 ;  v.  77,  3  ;  vi.  63, 
7 ;  X.  39,  12,  or  than  the  twinkling  of  an  eye  {nimishai  chy  javiyasa 
rathena),  viii.  62,  2.  It  is  decked  with  a  thousand  ornaments  and  banners 
{sahasra-ketu,  sahasra-nirnij),  i.  119,  1;  viii.  8,  4-1,^14,  and  has  golden 
reins,  viii.  22,  5.  It  is  sometimes  said  to  be  drawn  by  a  single  ass,  as  the 
word  rasahha '"'  is,  in  one  place  at  least,  i.  34,  9,  expressly  explained 
by  the  comvaentatoT  {aivastJiflniyasya  gardahhasya),^^'  i-  34,  9  ;  i.  116,  2  ; 
viii.  74,  7 ;  but  more  frequently  by  birds,  or  bird-like,  fleet-winged, 
golden-winged,  falcon-like,  swan-like  horses,  i.  46,  3  {yad  vam  ratho 
vibhish  patat);  i.  117,  2  {rathah  svaivah)  ;  i.  118,  4  (a  vdm  syendso 
ahind  vaJmntu  rathe  yuhtaso  asavah  patcmgah)  ;  i.  180,  1  [suyamasah 
asvah) ;  i.  181,  2  (a  vam  asvasah  iwhayah  ....  vahantu) ;  iv.  45,  4 
{liamsaso  ye  vam  madhumanto  asridho  hiranyaparndh) ;  v.  74,  9 ;  v.  75, 
5  {vihhii  Chyavdnam  Ahind  ni  yathah);  vi.  63,  6,  7  (o  vdm  vayah 


371  The  word  vamdhv/ra,  is  variously  explained  by  Sayana  as  ntdabandhanadhSra- 
hhutam  (on  i.  34,  9),  unnatanatarupa-bandhana-kashtham  (on  i.  47,  2),  veshthitam 
aaratheh  stKanam  (on  i.  118,  1),  sarathyas'raya-stKanam  (on  i.  157,  3),  sarathy- 
adhiahthana-sthanam  (on  vii.  71,  4),  and  trivandhura  as  triphalakasimghatitena  (on 
viii.74,  8).  The  epithet  would  thus  mean  either  (1)' having  three  perpendicular 
pieces  of  wood,  or  (2)  having  a  triple  standing  place  or  seat  for  the  charioteer.  In 
i.  34,  2,  the  chariot  is  said  to  have  three  props  fixed  in  it  to  lay  hold  of  [trayah 
skambhasah  shabhitasah  arabhe),  which  the  commentator  says  were  meant  to  secure 
the  rider  against  the  fear  of  falling  when  the  chariot  was  moving  rapidly.  This  ex- 
planation would  coincide  with  one  of  the  senses  assigned  to  vandhura.  In  i.  181,  3, 
their  chariot  is  called  aripra-voMdhurali,  which,  according  to  the  commentator,  is  = 
vistirna-pmrobKagah,  "  having  a  wide  fore-part." 

"*  See  the  legend  in  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  p.  270-273  of  Dr.  Haug's  trans- 
lation. It  is  there  related,  iv.  7-9,  that  at  the  marriage  of  Soma  and  Surya,  the 
gods  ran  a  race  to  determine  to  which  of  them  the  as'vina  s'astra  should  belong.  The 
As'vins  gained  it,  though  some  other  deities  gained  a  share.  Agni  ran  the  race  in  a 
car,  drawn  by  mules  {aivatari-rathena  Jgnir  ajim  adkavat),  Ushas  in  one  drawn  by 
ruddy  bulls  [gobhir  arunair  JJshah  ajim  adhavat),  Indra  in  one  drawn  by  horses 
{asvarathena  Indrah  ajim  adhavat),  while  the  As'vins  carried  off  the  prize  in  a  car 
drawn  by  asses  (gardabka-rathma  Aivina  ndajayatani).  Compare  R.V.  i.  116,  2, 
where  the  ass  is  said  to  have  won. 

'"  Prof.  Benfey  in  a  note  on  i.  116,  2,  while  agreeing  in  this  sense,  refers  also  to 
iii.  53,  5,  where  as  well  as  in  viii.  74,  3,  Sayana  explains  the  word  as  meaning  a 
neighing  or  snorting  horse. 

16 


242     CHARACTER  AND  PARENTAGE  OF  THE  AS'VINS, 

ahdso  vahuhthah  ahhi  prayo  nasatya  vahcmtu) ;  Tii.  69,  7 ;  viii.  5,  7, 
22,  33,  35  {tuyam  iyenebhir  aiuhhih  \  yatam  ahebhir  Aivind  \  yad 
vdm  ratho  vibMsh  patdt  \  d  iha  vdm  prmhitapsavo  vayo  vahcmtu  parni- 
nah  I  drmatpdnibhir  a^vaih) ;  x.  143,  5.  They  carry  a  honied  whip 
{hasd  madhumatl),  i.  122,  3 ;  i.  157,  4,™  and  their  car  traverses  the 
regions  {pra  vdm  ratho  manqfavdh  iyartti  tiro  rajdmsi),  vii.  68,  3. 

The  A^vins  are  fancifully  represented  in  i.'34,  1  ff.  as  doing,  or  as 
being  requested  to  do,  a  variety  of  acts  thrice  over,  viz.  to  move  thrice 
by  night  and  thrice  by  day,  (verse  2)  to  bestow  nourishment  thrice  at 
even  and  at  dawn,  (verse  3)  to  bestow  wealth  thrice,  (verse  5)  to  aid 
the  devotions  of  the  worshippers  thrice,  (ibid.)  to  bestow  celestial 
medicaments  thrice,  and  earthly  thrice  (verse  6),  etc. 

They  are  elsewhere  (ii.  39,  Iff.)  compared  to  different  twin  objects; 
to  two  vultures  on  a  tree,  to  two  priests  reciting  hymns  (verse  1),  to 
two  goats,  to  two  beautiful  women  {mene  iva  tanvd  iumbhamdne),  to 
husband  and  wife  (verse  2),  to  two  ducks,  chahravdlcd  (verse  3), 
to  two  ships  which  transport  men,  to  two  protecting  dogs  (verse  4), 
to  two  eyes,  two  hands,  two  feet  (verse  5),  to  two  sweetly-speaking 
lips,  two  breasts  yielding  nourishment,  two  nostrils,  two  ears  (verse  6), 
to  two  swans,  two  falcons,  two  deer,  two  buffaloes,  two  wings  of  one 
bird  (sdhamyujd  iahunasyeva  pakshd),  etc.,  etc.,  v.  78,  1-3 ;  viii.  35, 
7-9;  X.  106,  2  ff. 

They  are  the  guardians  of  the  slow  and  the  hindmost,  and  of  the 
female  who  is  growing  old  unmarried ;  they  are  physicians  "*  and  restore 
the  blind,  the  lame,  the  emaciated,  and  the  sick,  to  sight,  power  of 
locomotion,  health,  and  strength,  i.  34,  6;  i,  116,  16;  i.  157,  6;  viii. 
9,  6,  15;  viii.  18,  8;  viii.  22,  10;  viii.  75,  1  ;  x  39,  3,  5  {amdjwrd 
chid  bhavatho  yuvam  bhago  andso^  chid  avitdrd  apamasya  chit  \  andhasya 
chit  nasatyd  krikasya  chid  yuvdm  id  ahur  bhishaj'd  rutasya  chit) ; 
X.  40,  8.  See  also  A.V.  vii.  63,  1,  where  it  is  said  that  the  Asvins 
are  the  physicians  of  the  gods,  and  warded  off  death  from  the  wor- 

"*  See  below  the  section  on  the  "  progress  of  the  Vedio  religion,  etc."  India  has 
a  golden  whip,  viii.  33,  11. 

*'5  In  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  1,  2,  11,  the  As'yins  are  called  the  physicians  of  the  gods,  the 
bearers  of  oblations,  the  messengers  of  the  universe,  the  guardians  of  immortality 
{t/au  devanam  b/iishajau  Juwyavahau  visvasya  dutav  amritasya  gopau) ;  and  in  that 
and  the  preceding  paragraph  (10)  they  are  connected  with  their  own  asterism  {mi- 
ahatra),  the  Atfvayuj. 


THEIE  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES,  ETC.  243 

shipper  {prat^/auhatam  ahina  mrityum  asmad  devdnam  Agne  IMshcy'a 
iachllhih). 

They  place  the  productive  germ  in  all  creatures,  and  generate  fire, 
water  and  trees,  i.  157,  5  {yuvam  ha  garlhcfffb  jagatishu  dhattko  ffwaih 
viSveshv  bhuvaneshu  antah  \  yuvam  Agni'Si  cha  vrishanav  a^aS  eha  vanas- 
patln  asvinav  mrayetham).  They  are  connected  with  marriage,  pro- 
creation, and  love,  x.  184,  2  (=  A.V.  v.  25,  3:  gmrhham  te  aivinau 
devav  a  dJmUam  pushharasraja) ;  x.  85,  26  {ahind  too,  pravahatam 
ratkena  \  grikan  gachha  grihapatnl  yathd  'sa^) ;  A.N.  ii.  30,  2  {sain 
ehen  nayatho  asvina  kamind  sam  cha  vakshathah  \  "  When,  ye,  A^vins, 
bring  together  two  lovers,"  etc.) ;  vi.  102,  1 ;  xiv.  1,  35  f. ;  xiv.  2,  5. 
See  "Weber's  Indische  Studien  v.  218,  227,  234. 


(2)  Zegends  regarding  various  persons  delivered  or  favoured  hy  the 


The  following  are  a  few  of  the  modes  in  which  the  divine  power  of 
the  Asvins  is  declared  in  different  hymns  to  have  been  manifested  for 
the  deliverance  of  their  votaries. 

When  the  sage  Chyavana  had  grown  old,  and  had  been  forsaken, 
they  divested  him  of  his  decrepit  body,  prolonged  his  life,  and  restored 
him  to  youth,  making  him  acceptable  to  his  wife,  and  the  husband  of 
maidens,  i.  116,  10  {juju/ru^ho  ndsatyd  uta  vavrim  prdmunvhata0t  drapim 
iva  Chyavandt  \  pratiratarh  jahitasydyur  dasrd  ad  it  patim  ahrinutam 
kamndm);  i.  117,  13  {yuvaffi  Chyavdnam  Aivind  j'arantam  punar  yuvd- 
nam  chakrathuh  sachibhih);  1.  118,  6;  v.  74,  5  {pra  GJiyavdndj  juju- 
rusho  vavrim  atkam  na  munchathah  \  ymd  yadi  krithah  punar  d  kdmam 
rinve  vadhvah) ;  vii.  68,  6;  vii.  ^71,  5;  x.  39,  4. 

This  legend  is  related  at  length  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  in  a 
passage  which  will  be  cited  further  on. 

In  the  same  way  they  renewed  the  youth  of  Kali'"  after  he  had 

grown  old,  x.  39,  8  {yiwam  viprasya  jarandm  vpeymhah  punah  Kaler 

■  akrinutain,  yv/vad  vayah);  compare  i.  112,  15,  where  they  are  said  to 

have  befriended  him  after  he  had  married  a  wife  [Kalim  ydlhir  vitta- 

jdnim  dwvasyathah). 

3'6  The  family  of  the  Kalis  is  mentioned,  viii.  55,  15. 


244  LEGENDS  REGARDING  VARIOXTS  PERSONS 

They  brought  on  a  car  to  the  youthful  Vimada'"  a  bride  named 
Eamadyu,  -who  seems  to  have  been  the  beautiful  wife  of  Purumitra,  i. 
112,  19  {t/dbhih  patrur  Vimadaya  nyvJiathuh  \  here  wives  are  men- 
tioned in  the  plural) ;  i.  116,  1  [ya  wrbhagaya  Vimadaya  jay  am  sena- 
jma  nyuhatuh) ;  x.  65,  12  [Kamadywoam  Vimadaya  uhathuh);  i.  117, 
20  {ymam  hcMbhir  Vimadaya  jayaih  ni  uhathuh  Purundtrasya  yosham) ; 
X.  39,  7  {yuvam  rathena  Vimadaya  iundhyuvam  ni  uhathuh  JPuru- 
mitrasa  yoshanam).  Sayana,  on  i.  117,  20,  makes  yosham  =  kumdrim, 
by  which  he  appears  to  intend  the  daughter  of  Purumitra,  who  he 
says  was  a  ting.     But  yosha  seems  more  frequently  to  denote  a  wife. 

They  restored  Vishnapu,  like  a  lost  animal,  to  the  sight  of  Visvaka, 
son  of  Krishna,  their  worshipper,  who,  according  to  the  commentator, 
was  his  father,  i.  116,  23  {avasyate  stuvate  hrishniyaya  rijuyate  naaatyd 
iachibhih  \  paium  na  nashtam  iva  darsandya  Vishndpvam  dadathw 
Viivakdya);  i.  117,  7;  x.  65,  12. 

The  names  both  of  Visvaka  and  Vishnapu  occur  in  E.V.  viii.  75, 
1-3,  a  hymn  addressed  to  the  A^vins ;  and  the  commentator  (as  one 
explanation  of  the  passage)  connects  the  reference  there  made  to  the 
former  with  the  legend  before  us  (on  which,  however,  the  hymn  itself 
throws  no  Hght). 

Another  act  recorded  of  the  A^vins  is  their  intervention  in  favour  of 
Bhujyu,  the  son  of  Tugra,  which  is  obscurely  described  in  the  foltow- 
ing  verses  in  E.V.  i.  116,  3  jBf.  {^Tugro  ha  Bhujyum  Asvind  udam^ghe 
rayi'm  na  Tcaichit  mamrivdn  a/vdhdh  \  tarn  uhathur  naubhir  dtmanvatibhir 
antarikshaprtidbhir  apodakdbhih  \  4.  TisraT),  hshapas  trir  aha  ativra- 
jadbMr  ndsatyd  Bhujyum  uhathuh  patangaih  \  samudrasya  dhanvann 
drdrasyapdre  tribhih  rathaih  iatapadbhih  shalaivaih  \  5.  Andrambhane 
tad  amrayethdm  andsthdne  agrdbhane  samudre  \  yad  asvind  uhuthur 
Bhrtjyum  astam  iatdritrdm  ndvam  dtasthivdmsam  \  "  Tugra  abandoned 
Bhujyu  in  the  water-cloud,  as  any  dead  man  leaves  his  property.  Te, 
Asvins,  bore  him  in  animated  water-tight  ships,  which  traversed  the 
air.  4.  Three  nights  and  three  days  did  ye  convey  him  in  three  flying 
cars,  with  a  hundred  feet  and  six  horses,  which  crossed  over  to  the  dry 
land  beyond  the  liquid  ocean.  5.  Te  put  forth  your  vigour  in  the 
ocean,  which  offers  no  stay,  or  standing-place,  or  support,  when  ye 

3"  A  rishi  of  this  name  is  mentioned,  R.V.  viii.  9,  16  ;  x,  20,  10  ;  i.  23,  7 ;  and  a 
family  of  Vimadas  in  x.  23,  6. 


DELIVERED  OE  PAVOTJEED  BY  THE  AS'VINS.  245 

bore  Bhujyu  to  Ms  home,  standing  on  a  ship  propelled  by  a  hundred 
oars."  E.V.  i.  H7,  14  f.  (yuvam  BhvjyvM  arnaso  mh  samudrad  vibhir 
'uhathiir  rijrebhir  aivaih  \  15.  Ajohamd  ahina  Tangryo  vam  prolhih. 
samudram  myathir  jaganvan  |  nish  tarn  ukathuh  suyujd  ratkena  manoj'a- 
vasd  vruhattd  svasti  |  "  Ye  conveyed  Bhujyu  out  of  the  liquid  ocean 
with  your  headlong  flying  horses.  15.  The  son  of  Tugra  invoked  you, 
A^vins.  Borne  forward,  he  moved  without  distress  over  the  sea.  Te 
brought  him  out  with  your  well-yoked  chariot  swift  as  thought." 
Again  in  i.  182,  5  S.  it  is  said  :  yuvam  etam  ckahrathuh  sindhushu 
plmani  atmanvantam  pakshimm  Taugryaya  Icam  \  6.  Ava/eiddham  Taug- 
ryam  apsu  antar  andrambhane  tammi  praviddham  |  ckatasro  navojatha- 
lasya  jushtah  ud  ahihhgdm  ishitdh  pdrayanti  \  7.  Kdh  avid  vrihsho 
nishthito  madhye  arnaso  yam  Taugryo  nddhitah  pa/ryashvajat  \  pa/tnS. 
mrigasya  pataror  ivdrahhe  ud  aSvind  uhathuh  iromatdya  ham  |  "Te 
(Asvins)  made  this  animated,  winged,  boat  for  the  son  of  Tugra  among 
the  waters  ....  6.  Four  ships,"*  eagerly  desired,  impelled  by  the 
Asvins,  convey  to  the  shore  Tugra,  who  had  been  plunged  in  the 
waters,  and  sunk  in  bottomless  darkness.  7.  What  was  that  log, 
placed  in  the  midst  of  the  waves,  which,  in  his  straits,  the  son  of 
Tugra  embraced,  as  the  wings  of  a  flying  creature,  for  support  ? "  In 
vii.  68,  7,  Bhujyu  is  said  to  have  been  abandoned  by  his  his  malevo- 
lent companions  in  the  middle  of  the  sea  {uta  tyam  Bhufyum  Ahina 
salchdyo  madhye  jaJiwr  dterevdsah  samiudre).  The  story  is  also  alluded  to 
ini.  112,  6,  20;  i.  118,  6;  i.  119,  4;  i.  158,  3;  vi.  62,  6;  vii.  69, 
7 ;  viii.  5,  22 ;  x.  39,  4 ;  x.  40,  7 ;  x.  65,  12 ;  x.  143,  5. 

Again,  when  Vi^pala's  leg  had  been  out  off  in  battle,  like  the  wing 
of  a  bird,  the  Asvins  are  said  to  have  given  her  an  iron  one  instead, 
E.V.  i.  112,  10;  i.  116,  15  {charitram  hi  ver  ivdchhedi  parnam  dj'd 
JBJielasya  paritahmydydm  \  sadyo  jwngham  dyasim  Viipaldyai  dhane  hite 
sa/rtave  praty  adhattam);  i.  117,  11;  i.  118,  8;  x.  39,  8.™ 

They  restored  sight  to  Kijralva,  who  had  been  made  blind  by  his 
cruel  father, -for  slaughtering  one  hundred  and  one  sheep,  and  giving 
them  to  a  she-wolf  to  eat,  the  she- wolf  having  supplicated  the  Alvins 
on  behalf  of  her  blind  benefactor,  i.  116,  16;  i.  117,  17  f.  {satam 
meshdn  vrilcye  mdmahdnam   tamah  pranltam  aiivma  pitrd  |  a  ahhl 

3'8  The  sense  oijathala  is  not  clear. 

S'9  Compare  the  word  mspalavasu  in  B.V.  i.  182,  1, 


246  LEGENDS  EEGAEDING  VARIOUS  PEESONS 

rifrdSve  aivinav  adhattam  jyotvr  andhaya  ehakraihwr  mchakshe  |    18. 
S'unam  mdhaya  bharam  ahmayat  ed  vrikir  asvina  "vrishana  nard"  iti  \ 
j&rah  kmmah  iva  ehahhaddnah  Rijrahah  Mam  eham  cha  meshdn).   A* 
person  called  Eijra^va  is  mentioned  with  others  in  i.  100,  17,  as 
praising  Indra. 

They  restored  Paravrij  (or  an  outcast),  who  was  blind  and  lame,  to 
sight  and  the  power  of  walking,  i.  112,  8  {ydbhih  sacMhhir  vriahand 
Pa/rdvrijam  pra  andham  iromm  chalcshase  etave  iritha^).  Paravrij  is 
connected  with  Indra  in  ii.  13,  12,  and  ii.  15,  7. 

The  rishi  Bebha  has  been  hidden  by  the  malignant,  bound,  over- 
whelmed in  the  waters  (a  well,  according  to  the  commentator,)  for 
ten  nights  and  nine  days,  and  abandoned  till  he  was  nearly,  if  not 
entirely,  dead.  The  Aivins  drew  him  up  as  soma-juice  is  raised 
with  a  ladle,  i.  112,  5  {ydhhih  Rehham  nivritam  sitam  adbhya^  ud 
Vandanam  mrayatam  svar  drUe) ;  i.  116,  24  {daia  rdtrir  asivena  noma 
dyun  onxmaddhafn  inathitam  apsu  cmtah  \  viprutam  Eebham  udani  pra- 
vriktam  un  ninyathuh  somam  iva  snwena  |  Compare  i.  117,  12)  ;  i.  117, 
4  {aha^  na  gulham  Ahind  durevair  rishim  nard  vruhand  Rebham  apsu  \ 
tain  mm  rimtho  viprutam  damsobhih);  i.  118,  6;  i.  119,  6;  x.  39,  9 
{yuva^  ha  Rebham  vrishana  guhd  hitam  ud  airayatam  mamrivdthsam 
Ahind). 

Vandana  also  was  delivered  by  them  from  some  calamity,  the  nature 
of  which  does  not  very  clearly  appear  from  most  of  the  texts,  and 
restored  to  the  light  of  the  sun,  i.  112,  5  ;  i.  116,  11 ;  i.  117,  5; 
i.  118,  6.  In  X.  39,  8,  they  are  said  to  have  raised  him  out  of  a  pit''" 
{yma^  Vandanam  riSyadad  ud  upathuh).  According  to  i.  119,  6,  7, 
however,  he  would  appear  to  have  been  restored  from  decrepitude,  as  a 
chariot  is  repaired  by  an  artizan  ( pra  dlrghena  Vandanas  tdri  dyushd  \ 
7.  Yuvam  Vandanafh  ni/rritafh  ja/ranyayd  ratham  na  dasrd  karand  samin- 
vathah). 

So,  too,  the  A^vins  bestowed  wisdom  on  their  worshipper  Kakshlvat, 
of  the  famUy  of  Pajra ;  and  performed  the  notable  miracle  of  causing 
a  hundred  jars  of  wine  and  honied  liquor  to  flow  forth  from  the  hoof  of 
their  horse  as  from  a  sieve,  i.  116,  7  {Yuvam  nara  stvmate  Pqjriyaya 
kahhivate  aradatam  pwa/ndhim  \  kdrota/rdt  iaphdd  asvasya  vrishmJi, 

^^0  The  word  ridyada  is  explained  by  Messrs  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  a.v.,  as  a  pit 
tof  snaring  deer. 


DELIVERED  OE  FAVOUBED  BY  THE  ASTINS.  247 

Satam  humlhan  asinchatam  surayah) ;  i.  117,  6  (tad  vam  nard  ^afhsyam 
Peyriyena  kahhivatd  nasatya  pa/tijman  \  iwphaA  a^vasya  vajino  jcmaya 
iatam  kumbhan  asinchatam  madhunam). 

When  invoked  by  the  popular  sage  Atri  Saptavadhri,  who,  with  his 
companions,  had  been  plunged  by  the  malice  and  arts  of  evil  spirits 
into  a  gloomy  and  burning  abyss,'*'  they  speedily  came  to  his  assist- 
ance, mitigated  the  heat  with  cold,  and  supplie  d  him  with  nutriment 
so  that  his  situation  became  tolerable,  if  not  agreeable,  till  they 
eventually  extricated  him  from  his  perilous  position,  i.  112,  7  ;  i.  116, 
8  {Mmendgnim  ghramsam  midrayethdm  pitumatim  urjam  asmai  adattam  | 
riblse  Atrim  ahind  'vanitam  unninyathuh  sarvaganam  svasti) ;  i.  117,  3 
{rishim  nardv  amhasah  pdnchajanyam  riblsad  atrim  munchatho  ganena  | 
minantd  dasyor  aiivasya  maydK)]  i.  118,  7  ;  i.  119,  6;  v.  78,  4-6 
{Atrir  yad  vdm  avarohann  rihisam  a/ohmld  nddhamdneva  yoshd  | 
kyenasya  chij  jaaasd  nutanena  dgaehhatam  asvina  iantam^na);  vii.  71, 
5 ;  viii.  62,  3,  7-9  ;  x.  39,  9  {yuvam  rihisam  uta  taptam  Atraye  oman- 
vantam  chakrathuh  Sapta/oadhraye).  In  x.  80,  3,  the  deliverance  of 
Atri  is  ascribed  to  Agni  [Agnir  Atrim  gharme  wushyad  antah). 

They  listened  to  the  invocation  of  the  .wise  Vadhrimati,  and  gave 
her  a  son  called  Hiranyahasta,  i.  116,  13;  i.  117,  24  {Siranyahas- 
tam  Asvind  rardnd  putram  nard  Vadhrimatyai  adattam) ;  vi.  62,  7 ; 
X.  39,  7. 

They  gave  a  husband  to  Ghosha  when  she  was  growing  old  in  her 
father's  house,  i.  117,  7  {Ghoshdyai  chit  pitrishade  durone  patim  j'ury- 
antyai  a&vindv  adattam) ;  x.  39,  3,  6 ;  x.  40,  6 ;  and,  according  to  the 
commentator  on  i.  117,  7,  cured  her  of  the  leprosy  with  which  she  had 
been  afflicted. 

They  caused  the  cow  of  S'ayu,  which  had  left  off  bearing,  to  yield 
milk,  i.  116,  22;  i.  117,  20  (adhenum  dasrd  staryam  vishaMdm  apin- 
vatam  iaya/oe  Aivind  gam)  ;  i.  118,  8  ;  i.  119,  6  ;  x.  39,  13. 

They  gave  to  Pedu  a  strong,  swift,  white  horse,  animated  by  Indra, 
and  of  incomparable  Indra-like  prowess,  which  overcame  aU  his 
enemies,  and  conquered  for  him  unbounded  spoils,  i.  116,  6 ;  i.  117,  9 
(j?«ru  varpdmsi  Asvind  dadhdnd  ni  Pedave  uhathv/r  dkum  asvam  \ 
sahasrasdm  vdjinam  apratitam  ahihanam  iranasyam  tarutram);  i.  118, 

<si  gee  Professor  Boih's  explanation  of  tlie  words  ribim  and  gharma,  a.m.,  and 
his  illustrations  of  Nirukta,  yii  36. 


248.      CONNECTION  OF  THE  AS'VINS  WITH  OTHEE  DEITIES. 

9  [ymam  hetam  Pedwoe  InArcy'utam  ahihanam  ASvina  'dattam  ahiam) ; 
i.  119,  10  (Indram  iva  cJmrshamsaham) ;  vii.  71,  5 ;  x.  39,  10. 

Finally,  to  say  nothing  of  the  succours  rendered  to  numerous  other 
persons  (i.  112,  116,  117,  118,  119,)  the  Asvins  did  not  confine  their 
benevolence  to  human  beings,  but  are  also  celebrated  as  haying 
rescued  from  the  jaws  of  a  wolf  a  quail  by  which  they  were  invoked 
(i.  116,  14;  i.  117,  16;  i.  118,  8;  x.  39,  13  {vrikasya  chid  varUkam 
antar  asydd  ywvam  iacMhhir  grasitam  amunohatam). 

The  deliverances  of  Eebha,  Vandana,  Paravrij,  Bhujyu,  Chyavana, 
and  others  are  explained  by  Professor  Benfey  (following  Dr.  Euhn  and 
Professor  MiiHer),  in  the  notes  to  his  translations  of  the  hymns  in 
which  they  are  mentioned,  as  referring  to  certain  physical  phenomena 
with  which  the  Asvins  are  supposed  by  these  scholars  to  be  connected. 
But  this  allegorical  method  of  interpretation  seems  unlikely  to  be 
correct,  as  it  is  difficult  to  suppose  that  the  phenomena  in  question 
should  have  been  alluded  to  under  such  a  variety  of  names  and  circum- 
stances. It  appears,  therefore,  to  be  more  probable  that  the  rishis 
merely  refer  to  certain  legends  which  were  popularly  current  of  inter- 
ventions of  the  Asvins  in  behalf  of  the  persons  whose  names  are  men- 
tioned. The  word  Paravrij  (in  i.  112,  8),  which  is  taken  by  the 
commentator  for  a  proper  name,  and  is  explained  by  Professors 
Miiller'^''  and  Benfey  as  the  returning,  or  the  setting,  sun,  is  inter-, 
preted  by  Professor  Eoth  in  his  Lexicon,  «.«.,  as  an  outcast. 


(3)  Connection  of  the  Aivins  with  other  deities. 

In  viii.  26,  8,  the  Asvins  are  invoked  along  with  Indra  {Indra- 
ndsatya),  with  whom  they  are  also  connected  in  x.  73,  4,  and  on 
whose  car  they  are  in  one  place  said  to  ride,  while  at  other  times  they 
accompany  Vayu,  or  the  Adityas,  or  the  Eibhus,  or  participate  in  the 
strides  of  Vishnu,  viii.  9,  12  {yad  Indrena  saratham  yatho  Ahind  yad 
vd  Vayund  hhavatha^  samokasd  |  yad  Adityelhir  Rihhuhhi/r  yad  va 
Vishnor  vikramaneshu  tishthathah).  In  i.  182,  2,  they  are  said  to 
possess  strongly  the  qualities  of  Indra  {Indrafamd)  and  of  the  Maruts 

392  Lectures  on  Language,  second  series,  p.  S12. 


BELATIONS  OF  THE  ASTINS  TO  THEIR  ■WORSHIPPERS.     249 

{Miiruttama).  In  x.  131,  4,  5,  they  are  described  as  assisting  Indra 
in  his  conflict  with  the  Asura  Namuchi  (see  above,  p.  93  f.,  note),  and 
as  vigorous  slayers  of  Vrittra,  or  of  enemies,  vritrahantamd  (viii.  8, 
22).  They  are  eagerly  longed  for  (?)  by  the  other  gods  when  they 
arrive,  x.  24,  5  (vih)e  devah  akripanta  samichyor  nishpatantyoK). 


(4)  Relatiom  of  the  Ahins  to  their  worshippers. 

The  Asvins  are  worshipped  with  uplifted  hands,  vi.  63,  3  {uttdna- 
hasto  ymayur  vavanda),  and  supplicated  for  a  variety  of  blessings,  for 
long  life  and  deliverance  from  calamities,  i.  157,  4  {prayus  tdrishtam 
nih  rapdmsi  tnrihshatam) ;  for  offspring,  wealth,  victory,  destruction  of 
enemies,  preservation  of  the  worshippers  themselves,  of  their  houses 
and  cattle,  vii.  67,  6;  viii.  8,  13,  15,  17;  viii.  9,  11,  13;  viii.  26,  7; 
viii.  35,  10  ff.  They  are  exhorted  to  -overwhelm  and  destroy  the 
niggard  who  offers  no  oblations,  and  to  create  light  for  the  wise  man 
who  praises  them,  i.  182,  3  {kim  atra  dasrd  Icrinuthah  Mm  dsathe  jano 
yah  haiehid  ahavir  mahiyate  \  ati  hramishtam  juratam  paner  asumjyotir 
viprdya  hrinutam,  vachasyave). 

No  calamity  or  alarm  from  any  quarter  can  touch  the  man  whose 
chariot  they  place  in  the  van,  x.  39,  1 1  ^83  ^jj^j  f^ff^  fajdndv  adite  hutai- 
chana  na  amho  aknoti  duritam  nakir  Ihayam  \  yam  aMnd  suhavd  rudra- 
vartani  pworathafh  krinuthah  patnyd  saha).  The  rishi  addresses  them 
as  a  son  his  parents,  vU.  67,  1  {sunur  na  pitard  vivakmi).  In  x.  39,  6, 
a  female  suppliant,  who  represents  herself  as  friendless  and  destitute, 
calls  on  them  to  treat  her  as  parents  do  their  children,  and  rescue  her 
from  her  misfortunes  {iyam  vdm  ahie  irinutat%  me  Asvind  putrdyeva 
pitard  mahyam  sihhatam  |  andpir  ajrtd  asajdtyd  amatih,  pwrd  tasydh 
ahhiSaster  ava  spritam).  In  another  place,  viii.  62,  11,  they  seem  to 
be  reproached  with  being  as  tardy  as  two  old  men  to  respond  to  the 
summons  of  their  worshipper  (Mm  idarh  vdm  pv/rdna/vaj  jarator  iva 
sasyate  \  "  Why  is  this  praise  addressed  to  you  as  if  you  were  old  men 
and  worn  out  ? ").     In  vii.  72,  2,  the  rishi  represents  himself  as  having 


383  Compare  the  request  preferred  to  Indra  to  bring  forward  the  chariot  of  his 
worshipper  from  the  rear  to  the  front  (tIU.  69,  4  f.).  ^ 


250  LEGEND  OF  CHTAVANA  AND  THE  AS'VINS, 

hereditary  claims  on  their  consideration,  and  a  common  bond  of  union"* 
(iftivor  hi  nah  sakhya  pitrySni  samano  landhur  uta  tasya  vittam). 

The  Asvins  are  described  as  being,  like  the  other  gods,  fond  of  the 
soma-juice  (iii.  58,  7,  9 ;  iv.  45,  1,  3 ;  viii.  8,  5 ;  viii.  35,  7-9),  and 
are  invited  to  drink  it  with  Ushas  and  Surya,  viii.  35,  1  ff. 


(5)  Legend  of  Chya/oana  and  the  Aivins,  according  to  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana  and  the  Mahabharata. 

The  following  version  of  the  legend  relating  to  the  cure  of  Chya- 
vana  by  the  Asvins  (to  which  allusion  is  made  in  the  passage  of  the 
E.T.  quoted  above)  is  found  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iv.  1,  5,  1  ff. : 

1.  Tatra  vai  Bhrigwvo  va  Angiraso  va  svargam  loham  samdinwata  tat 
Chycwano  vd  Bhargma&  Chya/vano  vd  Angirasas  tad  evajirnih  kritydrupo 
Jahe  I  2.  S'arydto  ha  vai  idam  Manavo  gramena  chachdra  \  sa  tad  eva 
prativeso  nivivise  \  tasya  kumarah  krldantah  imam  firnirh  kritydru- 
pam  anarthyam  manyamdndh  hshfair  vipipishuh  |  3.  Sa  S'drydte- 
Ihyai  chukrodha  \  telhyo  'sanjndm  chakdra  pita  eva  putrena  yuyudhe 
bhrdtd  hhrdtrd  \  4.  S'arydto  ha  ikshdnchakre  yat  "kim  akarafh  taamdd 
idam  dpadi"  iti  \  sa  gopdldfhk  eha  avipdldm^  cha  samhvayitavai  uvdcha  \ 
5.  Sa  ha  v/odcha  "ko  vo  adya  iha  kinchid  adrdkshid "  iti  |  te  ha  uchuh 
"purushah  eva  ay  am  jirnih  kritydrupah  hte  |  tam  anarthyam  manya- 
mdndh kumdrdh  loshtair  vyapikshann"  iti  \  sa  viddnchakdra  "sa  vai 
Chyavanah  "  iti  \  6.  Sa  ratham  yuktvd  Sukanydih  S'drydtlm  upddhdya 
prasishyanda  |  sa  djagdma  yatra  rishir  dsa  tat  |  7.  Sa  ha  uvdcha 
"rishe  namas  te  \  yan  na  avedisham  tena  ahimsisham  \  iyam  Sukanyd  | 
tayd  te  apahnuve  \  sanjdnUdm  me  grdmah"  iti  \  tasya  ha  tatah  eva 
grdmah  sanjajne  \  sa  ha  tatah  eva  S'arydto  Mdna/oah  udyuyuje  "na  id 
apa/taik  hinasdni"  iti  \  8.  Ahinau  ha  vai  idam  hhishaj'yantau  cheratuh  \ 
tau  Sukanydm  upeyatulj,  \  tasydm  mithunam  iskdte  \  tan  na  jajnau  \  9. 
Tau  ha  uehatuh  "Sukanye  kam  imaih  jtrnim  krityarupam  ttpahshe  \ 
dvdm  aniiprehi"  iti  \  sd  ha  uvdcha  "yasmai  mdm  pitd  addd  na  tam 

'SI  The  commentator  explains  this  of  a  common  ancestry  by  saying,  in  accordance 
with  later  tradition,  that  Vivasvat  and  Varuna  were  both  sons  of  Kas'yapa  and  Aditi, 
and  that  Vivasvat  was  the  father  of  the  As'vins,  while  Varuna  was  father  of  Vas- 
..ishtha,  the  rishi  of  the  hymn.    See  the  let  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  829  f.,  note  114. 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  S'ATAPATHA  BEAHMANA,  ETC.         251 

Hvantam  hasyami"  iti  |  tad  ha  ayam  rishir  djaj'nau  \  10.  Sa  ha  iwacha 
"  Sukanye  Mm  tva  etad  avochatam  "  iti  |  tasmai  etad  vyachachakshe  |  sa 
ha  vydkhyatah  maoha  "yadi  tva  etat  puna/r  hrv/vatah  sa  tvam  hrutad 
'  na  vai  susarvav  wa  stho  na  susamriddhav  iva  atha  me  patim  nindathah ' 
iti  I  tau  yadi  tva  iruvatah  '  kena  avam  asarvau  svah  kena  asam- 
riddhdv'  iti  |  sa  tvam  hrutdt  *  patim,  nu  me  puna/r  ymanaih  kwrutam 
atha  vam  vakshyami'  iti"  |  tam  punar  upeyatus  tarn  ha  etad  eva 
iichatuh  I  11.  Sa  ha  uvdeha  "na  vai  susarvav  iva  stho  na  susamriddhdv 
iva  atha  me  patim  nindathah"  iti  |  tau  ha  uehatuh  "kena  avam  asarvau 
svah  kena  asamriddhdv "  iti  |  sd  ha  uvdeha  "patim  nu  me  punar 
ymanam  kwrutam  atha  vdm  vakshydmi"  iti  \  12.  Tau  ha  uehatut/r  "etam 
hradam  dbhya/vahara  \  sa  yena  vayasd  kamishyate  tena  udaishyati "  iti  | 
ta&  hradam  dbhya/oajahdra  \  sa  yena  vayasd  ehakame  tena  udeydya  \  13. 
Tau  ha  uehatuh  "  Sukanye  kena  avam  asarvau  svah  kena  asamriddhdv  " 
iti  I  tau  ha  rishir  eva  pratyuvdcha  "kurukshetre  ami  devdh  yajna/Hi 
tarwate  \  te  vdm  yajndd  antaryanti  \  tena  asa/rva/a  sthas  tena  asam- 
riddhdv" iti  I  tau  ha  tatah  eva  Asvinau  preyatuh  \  tdv  djagmatv/r 
devdn  yajnam  tanvdndn  stute  hahishpa/vamdne  \  14.  Tau  ha  uehatw 
"  upa  nau  hvayadhvam "  iti  \  te  ha  devdh  uchur  "  na  vdm  wpahma- 
yishyamahe  \  hahu  manushyeshu  safhsrishtam  achdrishtam  hhishafyantdv" 
iti  I  15.  Tatt  ha  uehatur  visirshnd  vai  yqjnena  y<yadh)e  "  iti  \  "  katioafh 
vislrshnd"  iti  \  "upa  nau  hvayadhoam  atha  vo  vakshydvah"  iti  | 
"  tathd  "  iti  |  td  updhvayanta  tdbhydm  etam  divinam  graham  agrihnaihs 
tdv  adhva/ryu   yqjrbasya   alhavatdm  |  tav  etad  yajnasya  iirah  pratya- 


"When  the  Bhrigus  or  the  Angirases  had  reached  the  heavenly 
world,  Chyavana  of  the  race  of  Bhrigu,  or  Chyavana  of  the  race  of 
Angiras,  having  magically  assumed  a  shrivelled  form,  -was  abandoned. 
Skryata,  the  descendant  of  Manu,  wandered  over  this  [world]  with  his 
tribe.  He  settled  down  in  the  neighbourhood  [of  Chyavana].  His  youths, 
while  playing,  fancied  this  shrivelled  magical  body  to  be  worthless, 
and  pounded  it  with  clods.  Chyavana  was  incensed  at  the  sons  of 
S'aryata.  He  created  discord  among  them,  so  that  father  fought  with 
son,  and  brother  with  brother.  S'aryata  bethought  him,  '  what  have  I 
done,  in  consequence  of  which  this  calamity  has  befallen  us  ? '  He 
ordered  the  cowherds  and  shepherds  to  be  called,  and  said,  '  Which  of 
you  has  seen  anything  here  to-day  ? '     They  replied,  '  This  shrivelled 


252       LEGEND  OF  CHTAVANA  AND  THE  AS'VINS, 

magical  body  which  lies  there  is  a  man.  Fancying  it  was  something 
worthless,  the  youths  pounded  it  with  clods.'  S'aryata  knew  then  that 
it  was  Chyavana.  He  yoked  his  chariot,  and  taking  his  daughter 
Sukanya,  drove  off,  and  arrived  at  the  place  where  the  rishi  was.  He 
said,  '  Eeverence  to  thee,  rishi ;  I  injured  thee  because  I  did  not  know. 
This  is  Sukanya,  with  her  I  appease  thee.  Let  my  tribe  be  reconciled.' 
His  tribe  was  in  consequence  reconciled ;  and  S'aryata  of  the  race  of  Manu 
departed  thence  "lest,"  said  he,  "I  might  do  him  some  other  injury." 
Now  the  A^vins  used  to  wander  over  this  world,  performing  cures.  They 
approached  Sukanya,  and  wished  to  seduce  her ;  biit  she  would  not 
consent.  They  said  to  her,  '  Sukanya,  what  shrivelled  magical  body 
is  this  by  which  thou  liest  ?  follow  us.'  She  replied,  '  I  wiU  not 
abandon,  while  he  lives,  the  man  to  whom  my  father  gave  me.'  The 
rishi  became  aware  of  this.  He  said,  '  Sukanya,  what  was  this  that 
they  said  to  thee  ? '  She  told  it  to  him.  When  informed,  he  said, 
'  If  they  address  thee  thus  again,  say  to  them,  '  Te  are  neither  com- 
plete nor  perfect,  and  yet  ye  speak  contemptuously  of  my  husband ! ' 
and  if  they  ask,  '  In  what  respect  are  we  incomplete  and  imperfect  ? ' 
then  reply,  'Make  my  husband  young  again,  and  I  will  teU  you.' 
Accordingly  they  came  again  to  her,  and  said  the  same  t^g.  She 
answered,  "Te  are  neither  complete  nor  perfect,  and  yet  ye  talk 
contemptuously  of  my  husband  ! '  They  enquired,  '  In  what  respect 
are  we  incomplete  and  imperfect  ? '  She  rejoined,  '  Make  my  husband 
young  again,  and  I  will  tell  you.'  They  replied,  '  Take  him  to  this 
pond,  and  he  shall  come  forth  with  any  age  which  he  shall  desire.' 
She  took  him  to  the  pond,  and  he  came  forth  with  the  age  that  he 
desired.  The  A^vins  then  asked,  '  Sukanya,  in  what  respect  are  we 
incomplete  and  imperfect  ? '  To  this  the  rishi  replied,  '  The  other  gods 
celebrate  a  sacrifice  in  Kurukshetra,  and  exclude  you  two  from  it. 
That  is  the  respect  in  which  ye  are  incomplete  and  imperfect.'  The 
Asvins  then  departed  and  came  to  the  gods  who  were  celebrating  a 
sacrifice,  when  the  Bahishpavamana '*'  text  had  been  recited.  They 
said,  'Invite  us  to  join  you.'  The  gods  replied,  '  We  will  not  invite 
you,  for  ye  have  wandered  about  very  familiarly  among  men,*"'  per- 

s»i>  See  Hang's  Ait.  Br.  ii.  p.  120,  note  13. 

586  In  the  Mahabharata,  S'antip.  v.  7589  f.  it  is  said  that  the  Arfvins  are  the 
S'udras  of  the  gods,  the  Angirases  being  the  Brahmans,  the  Adityas  the  Kshatiiyas, 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  SATAPATHA  BRAHMANA,  ETC.        253 

fonning  cures.'  The  A^vins  rejoined,  "Te  worship  with  a  headless 
sacrifice.'  They  asked,  'How  [do  we  worship]  with  a  headless 
[sacrifice]?'  The  Asvins  answered,  'Invite  us  to  join  you,  and  we 
will  tell  you.'  The  gods  consented,  and  invited  them.  They  received 
this  A^vina  draught  {graha)  for  the  Asvins,  who  became  the  two  adh- 
varyu  priests'"  of  the  sacrifices,  and  restored  the  head  of  the  sacri- 
fice." As  regards  the  cutting  off  of  the  head  of  the  sacrifice  see  the 
passages  quoted  in  the  4th  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  109  ff. 

The  Taittiriya  Sanhita  vi.  4,  9,  1,  gives  the  following  brief  notice 
of  the  story  of  the  Aivins  replacing  the  head  of  the  sacrifice,  with  an 
addition  not  found  in  the  S'atap,  Br. : 

Ycy'nasya  kiro  'chMdyata  \  te  devak  ahinav  ahrman  "  hMshajau  vai 
sfhalf  I  idam  yajnasya  iirah  pratidhattam"  iti  \  tdv  ahrutam  "  vara'fh 
vrinavahai  grahah  eva  ndv  atrapi  grihyatam "  iti  \  tdhhydm  etam 
ahinam  agrihnan  \  tato  vai  tau  yajnmya  kirah  pratyadhattdm  \  yaddSvino 
grihyate  yajnasya  nishkrityai  tau  devdh  alrwvann  "  aputau  vai  imau 
manushyacharau  bhishafdv "  iti  \  tasmdd  hrdhmanena  'bheshajafn  na  Mr- 
yam  (  aputo  hy  esho  'medhyo  yo  hhishak  \  tau  hahiahpavamdnena  pma- 
yitvd  tabhydm  etam  divinam  agrihnan  \ 

"  The  head  of  the  sacrifice  was  cut  off.  The  gods  said  to  the 
Asvins,  '  Tou  are  physicians  ;  replace  this  tead  of  the  sacrifice.'  The 
Asvins  replied,  '  Let  us  ask  a  favour  :  allow  a  libation  for  us  also  to  be 
received  in  this  ceremony.'  They,  in  consequence,  received  for  them 
this  A^vina  oblation,  when  they  replaced  the  head  of  the  sacrifice. 
"When  this  A^vina  libation  had  been  received  for  the  sake  of  rectifying 
the  sacrifice,  the  gods  said  of  the  Asvins,  '  These  two  are  unclean, 
going  among  men  as  they  do,  as  physicians.'  Hence,  no  Brahman 
must  act  as  a  physician,  since  a  person  so  acting  is  unclean  and  unfit  to 
sacrifice.  They  purified  the  Asvins  by  the  Bahishpavamana ;  and  then 
received  for  them  the  Asvina  libation."  Compare  the  Ait.  Br.  i.  18, 
pp.  41  ff.  of  Professor  Hang's  translation. 

A  story,  varying  in  some  particulars,  is  narrated  in  the  Mahabharata, 


and  the  Maruts  tlie  Vai^yas.  Witli  the  ohjection  made  against  the  Asvins  of  too 
great  familiarity  with  mortals,  compare  the  numerous  instances  of  help  rendered  to 
their  worshippers,  which  have  been  quoted  above  from  the  E.  V.,  and  wliioh  may  hare 
given  rise  to  this  idea. 

3i"  Compare  S.  P,  Br,  viii.  2,  1,  3. 


254  LEGEND  OF  CHTAVANA  AND  THE  ASTINS. 

Vanaparva,  10,316  ff.  The  original  text  is  too  lengthy  to  he  cited,  hut  I 
shall  give  its  suhstance.  We  are  there  told  that  the  body  of  Chyavana, 
when  performing  austerity  in  a  certain  place,  became  encrusted  with 
an  ant-hni ;  that  king  S'aryati  came  then  to  the  spot  with  his  4000 
wives  and  his  single  daughter  Sukanya;  that  the  rishi,  seeing  her, 
became  enamoured  of  her  and  endeavoured  to  gain  her  afiFeotions,  but 
without  eliciting  from  her  any  reply.  Seeing,  however,  the  sage's 
eyes  gleaming  out  from  the  ant-hill,  and  not  knowing  what  they  were, 
the  princess  pierced  them  with  a  sharp  instrument,  whereupon  Chya- 
vana became  incensed,  and  afflicted  the  king's  army  with  a  stoppage  of 
urine  and  of  the  other  necessary  function.  When  the  king  found  out 
the  cause  of  the  infliction,  and  supplicated  the  rishi  for  its  removal, 
the  latter  insisted  on  receiving  the  king's  daughter  to  wife,  as  the  sole 
condition  of  his  forgiveness.  Sukanya  accordingly  lived  with  the  rishi 
as  his  spouse.  One  day,  however,  she  was  seen  by  the  Asvins,  who 
endeavoured,  but  without  effect,  to  persuade  her  to  desert  her  decrepit 
husband,  and  choose  one  of  them  in  his  place.  They  then  told  her 
they  were  the  physicians  of  the  gods,  and  would  restore  her  husband 
to  youth  and  beauty,  when  she  could  make  her  choice  between  Tn'm 
and  one  of  them.  Chyavana  and  his  wife  consented  to  this  proposal ; 
and,  at  the  suggestion  of  the  Asvins,  he  entered  with  them  into  a 
neighbouring  pond,  when  the  three  came  forth  of  like  celestial  beauty, 
and  each  asked  her  to  be  his  bride.  She,  however,  recognized  and 
chose  her  own  husband.  Chyavana,  in  gratitude  for  his  restoration  to 
youth,  then  offered  to  compel  Indra  to  admit  the  Asvins  to  a  partici- 
pation in  the  Soma  ceremonial,  and  fulfilled  his  promise  in  the  course 
of  a  sacrifice  which  he  performed  for  king  S'aryati.  On  that  occasion 
Indra  objected  to  such  an  honour  being  extended  to  the  Asvins,  on  the 
ground  that  they  wandered  about  among  men  as  physicians,  changing 
their  forms  at  will ;  but  Chyavana  refused  to  listen  to  the  objection, 
and  carried  out  his  intention,  staying  the  arm  of  Indra  when  he  was 
about  to  launch  a  thunderbolt,  and  creating  a  terrific  demon,  who  was 
on  the  point  of  devouring  the  king  of  the  gods,  and  was  only  pre- 
vented by  the  timely  submission  of  the  latter.^'* 

3B8  gee  the  similar  account  of  Chyavana's  power  in  the  passage  from  the  Anus'asana 
parya  quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  second  edition,  p.  470  f. 


EEMAEKS  BY  PEOFESSOR  GOLDSTUCKEE.  255 

(6)  RemwrTcs  on  the  AMns  ly  Professor  Goldstueker. 

I  have  been  favoured  by  Professor  Groldstiioker  with  the  folio-wing 
note  on  the  Asvins  : — 

The  myth  of  the  Asvins  is,  in  my  opinion,  one  of  that  class  of 
myths  in  which  two  distinct  elements,  the  cosmioal  and  the  human  or 
historical,  have  gradually  become  blended  into  one.  It  seems  necessary, 
therefore,  to  separate  these  two  elements  in  order  to  arrive  at  an 
understanding  of  the  myth.  The  historical  or  human  element  in  it,  I 
believe,  is  represented  by  those  legends  which  refer  to  the  wonderful 
cures  effected  by  the  Asvins,  and  to  their  performances  of  a  kindred 
sort ;  the  cosmical  element  is  that  relating  to  their  luminous  nature. 
The  link  which  connects  both  seems  to  be  the  mysteriousness  of  the 
nature  and  effects  of  the  phenomena  of  light,  and  of  the  healing  art  at 
a  remote  antiquity.  That  there  might  have  been  some  horsemen  or 
warriors  of  great  renown  who  inspired  their  contemporaries  with  awe 
by  their  wonderful  deeds,  and  more  especially  by  their  medical  skill, 
appears  to  have  been  also  the  opinion  of  some  old  commentators  men- 
tioned by  Yaska,  for  some  "legendary  writers,''  he  says,  took  them  for 
"two  kings,  performers  of  holy  acts;"  and  this  view  seems  likewise 
borne  out  by  the  legend  in  which  it  is  narrated  that  the  gods  refused 
the  Asvins  admittance  to  a  sacrifice  on  the  ground  that  they  had  been 
on  too  famUiar  terms  witji  men.  It  would  appear  then  that  these 
Asvins,  like  the  Eibhus,  were  originally  renowned  mortals,  who,  in  the 
course  of  time,  were  translated  into  the  companionship  of  the  gods; 
and  it  may  be  a  matter  of  importance  to  investigate  whether,  besides 
this  a  priori  view,  there  are  further  grounds  of  a  linguistic  or  gram- 
matical character  for  assuming  that  the  hymns  containing  the  legends 
relating  to  these  human  Asvins  are  posterior  or  otherwise  to  those 
descriptive  of  the  cosmical  gods  of  the  same  name. 

The  luminous  character  of  the  latter  can  scarcely  be  matter  of  doubt, 
for  the  view  of  some  commentators — recorded  by  Yaska, — according  to 
which  they  were  identified  with  "heaven  and  earth,"  appears  not  to 
be  countenanced  by  any  of  the  passages  known  to  us.  Their  very 
name,  it  would  seem,  settles  this  point,  since  aiva,  the  horse,  literally, 
"the  pervader,"  is  always  the  symbol  of  the  luminous  deities,  espe- 
cially of  the  sun.   The  difficulty,  however,  is  to  determine  their  position 


256  EEMAEKS  ON  THM  ASTINS 

amongst  these  deities  and  to  harmonize  -with  it  the  other  myths  con- 
nected with  them.  I  may  here,  however,  first  observe  that,  though 
Yaska  records  opinions  which  identify  the  A^vins  with  "day  and 
night,"  and  "  sun  and  moon,"  the  passage  relied  upon  by  Professor 
Eoth  to  prove  that  Taska  himself  identified  them  with  Indra  and 
Aditya  (the  sun),  does  not  bear  out  any  such  conclusion.  For  the 
passage  in  question,  as  I  imderstand  it,  means:  "their  time  is  after 
the  (latter)  half  of  the  night  when  the  (space's)  becoming  light  is 
resisted  (by  darkness) ;  for  the  middlemost  Asvin  (between  darkness 
and  light)  shares  in  darkness,  whilst  (the  other),  who  is  of  a  solar 
nature  (aditya),  shares  in  light."  There  is  this  verse  relating  to  them: 
"  In  nights,"  ^''  etc.  JSTor  does  Durga,  the  commentator  on  Taska, 
attribute  to  the  latter  the  view  which  Professor  Eoth  ascribes  to  him. 
His  words,  as  I  interpret  them,  are  :  "  '  their  time  is  after  the  (latter) 
half  of  the  night  when  the  (space's)  becoming  light  is  resisted,' 
(means)  when,  after  the  (latter)  half  of  the  night,  darkness  intersected 
by  light  makes  an  efibrt  against  light,  that  is  the  time  of  the  Asvins. 
....  Then  the  nature  of  the  middlemost  (between  them)  is  a  share  in 
that  darknesss  which  penetrates  into  light ;  and  the  solar  one  (aditya) 
assumes  that  nature  which  is  a  share  in  the  light  penetrating  into 
darknesss.  These  two  are  the  middlemost  and  the  uppermost :  this  is 
the  teacher's  [i.e.  Taska' s)  own  opinion,  for,  in  order  to  substantiate 
it,  he  gives  as  an  instance  the  verse  '  Vasdtishu  sma,^  " '""  etc. 

3"  Nir.  xii.  1,  tayoA  kalah  urd/mam  ardharatrat  prakastbKavasyanwvishtamihim 
anu  (the  last  word  is  omitted  in  Durga  MS.  1. 0.  L.,  No.  206)  tamobhago  hi  madh- 
yamo  jyotirhhaga  adityah;  toy  or  es/tu  ihcwati  Vasatishu  sma,  etc. 

390  Durga  1. 0.  L.,  No.  206 :  Tayoh  kala  urdhvmn  ardharntrat pra&asiihavasyanu 
vishlambham  |  jyotisha  vyatibhidyamanam.  urdfivam  ardharatrat  tamo  yadS  jyotir 
anu  nshtabhnati  so  's'mnoh  kalah  \  [tatah  prabhriti  samdhistotram  purodayai 
asvinam,  udite  sawyani]  \  tatra  yat  tamo  'mmishtam  (the  MS.  of  Professor  Miiller, 
Lect.  2nd  series,  p.  490,  reads  'nupravishtam)  jyotishi  tadbhago  madhyamasya 
rupam  (the  MS.  of  Prof.  M.  ibid. :  tadbhago  madhymnah  \  tan  madhyamasya 
rupam) :  yaj  jyotis  tamasy  antwishtam  (the  same,  ibid,  amqiravishtam)  tadbhSgam 
tadrupam  adityah  |  tav  etau  madhyamottamav  iti  svamatam  acharyasya  \  yatah 
samarthanayodaharati  tayor  esha  bhavati  Vasatishu  smeti.  Professor  Eoth,  in  his 
illustrations  of  Nirukta,  xii.  1,  very  correctly  observes  that  the  Terse  quoted  by 
Taska  ifiasatishu  sma,  etc.)  does  not  bear  out  the  view  that  the  Aivins  are  Indra  and 
Aditya ;  but  the  proper  inference  to  be  drawn  from  this  circumstance  would  seem  to 
be,  not  that  Yaska  quoted  a  verse  irrelevant  to  his  view,  but  that  Professor  Eoth 
attributed  to  him  a  view  which  he  had  not  entertained,  and  that  it  may  be  preferable 
to  render  Aditya,  as  proposed  above,  "the  solar  (Asvin),"  or  the  As'vin  of  a  solar  nature. 


BY  PROFESSOR  GOLDSTUCKER.  257 

To  judge,  therefore,  from  these  ■words,  it  is  the  opinion  of  Taska 
that  the  Asvins  represent  the  transition  from  darkness  to  light,  when 
the  intermingling  of  both  produces  that  inseparable  duality  expressed 
by  the  twin  nature  of  these  deities.  And  this  interpretation,  I  hold, 
is  the  best  that  can  be  given  of  the  character  of  the  eosmical  A  svins. 
It  agrees  with  the  epithets  by  -which  they  are  invoked,  and  with  the 
relationship  in  -which  they  are  placed.  They  are  young,  yet  also 
ancient,  beautiful,  bright,  swift,  etc  ;  and  their  negative  character — 
the  result  of  the  alliance  of  light  with  darkness — is,  I  believe,  ex- 
pressed by  dasra,  the  destroyer,  and  also  by  the  two  negatives  in  the 
compound  nasatya  [na  +  a-satya),  though  their  positive  character  is 
again  redeemed  by  the  ellipsis  of  "enemies,  or  diseases,"  to  dasra,  and 
by  the  sense  of  nasatya,  not  un-true,  i.e.  truthful.  They  are  the 
parents  of  Pushan,  the  sun  ;  for  they  precede  the  rise  of  the  sun ; 
they  are  the  sons  of  the  sky,  and  again  the  sons  of  Vivasvat  and 
Saranyu.  Vivasvat,  I  believe,  here  implies  the  firmament  "expand- 
ing "  to  the  sight  through  the  approaching  light ;  and  though  Saranyu 
is  to  Professor  Miiller  one  of  the  deities  which  are  forced  by  him  to 
support  his  dawn-theor}',  it  seems  to  me  that  the  etymology  of  the 
word,  and  the  character  of  the  myths  relating  to  it,  rather  point  to 
the  moving  air,  or  the  dark  and  cool  air,  heated,  and  therefore  set  in 
motion,  by  the  approach  of  the  rising  sun.  The  Asvins  are  also  the 
husbands  or  the  friends  of  Surya,  whom  I  take  for  the  representative 
of  the  weakest  manifestation  of  the  sun ;  and  I  believe  that  Sayana  is 
right  when,  by  the  sister  of  the  Asvins,  he  understands  TJshas,  the 
da-wn.  The  mysterious  phenomenon  of  the  intermingling  ot  darkness 
— which  is  no  longer  complete  night — and  of  light — which  is  not  yet 
dawn — seems  to  agree  with  all  these  conceptions,  and  with  the  further 
details  of  a  eosmical  nature,  which  are  so  fully  given  in  the  preceding 
paper. 


17 


258 


SECTION    XYI. 

SOMA. 

Eeference  haa  been  already  made  to  the  important  share  which  the 
exhilarating  juice  of  the  soma-plant  assumes  in  bracing  Indra  for  his 
conflict  with  the  hostile  powers  in  the  atmosphere,  and  to  the  eagerness 
of  all  the  gods  to  partake  in  this  beverage. 

Soma  is  the  god  who  represents  and  animates  this  juice,  an  intoxi- 
cating draught  which  plays  a  conspicuous  part  in  the  sacrifices  of  the 
Vedic  age.  He  is,  or  rather  was  in  former  times,  the  Indian  Dionysus  or 
Bacchus.  "Not  only  are  the  whole  of  the  hymns  in  the  ninth  book  of  the 
Kig-veda,  one  hundred  and  fourteen  in  number,  besides  a  few  in  other 
places,  dedicated  to  his  honour,  but  constant  references  to  the  juice  of  the 
soma  occur  in  a  large  proportion  of  the  other  hymns.  It  is  clear  there- 
fore, as  remarked  by  Professor  "Whitney  {Journal  of  the  American  Oriental 
Society,  iii.  299),  that  his  worship  must  at  one  time  have  attained  a 
remarkable  popularity.  This  circumstance  is  thus  explained  by  the 
writer  to  whom  I  have  referred  :  "  The  simple-minded  Arian  people, 
whose  whole  religion  was  a  worship  of  the  wonderful  powers  and  phe- 
nomena of  nature,  had  no  sooner  perceived  that  this  liquid  had  power 
to  elevate  the  spirits,  and  produce  a  temporary  frenzy,  under  the  in- 
fluence of  which  the  individual  was  prompted  to,  and  capable  of,  deeds 
beyond  his  natural  powers,  than  they  found  in  it  something  divine : 
it  was  to  their  apprehension  a  god,  endowing  those  into  whom  it 
entered  with  godlike  powers ;  the  plant  which  afforded  it  became  to 
them  the  king  of  plants ;  the  process  of  preparing  it  was  a  holy  sacri- 
fice ;  the  instruments  used  therefor  were  sacred.  The  high  antiquity 
of  this  cultus  is  attested  by  the  references  to  it  found  occurring  in  the 
Persian  Avesta ; '"  it  seems,  however,  to  have  received  a  new  impulse 
on  Indian  territory." 

301  See  Dr.  Windischmann's  Essay  on  the  Soma-worship  of  the  Arians,  or  the 


SOMA.  259 


(1)   Quotation  from  Euripides  relating  to  the  Greeh  god  Dionysus. 

As  illustrating  the  sentiments  wHch.  gave  rise  to  the  adoration  of 
Dionysus,  the  Grecian  Soma,  I  shall  introduce  here  some  verses  from 
the  Bacchae  of  Euripides,,  272  ff.,  in  which  the  philosophical  poet  puts 
into  the  mouth  of  the  prophet  Teiresias  a  vindication  of  the  -worship 
of  the  new  god,  against  the  ridicule  which  had  been  thrown  upon 
him  by  Pentheus,  together  with  a  statement  of  the  reasons  which 
justified  his  deification,  and  a  rationalistic  explanation  of  a  current 
myth  regarding  him : 

QStos  5'  A  daifjLMV  6  vios  hv  ah  BiayeX^s 
ovK  Uv  _dvpai/XT]v  fisyedos  4^enre7y  liffos 
Ka6*  'EWdd*  ^(TTai  •  S6o  ycipy  S  veayia, 
TCI  -irpwT*  4v  cLvOp^iroiffif  A'qfiijTTjp  tfeet, 
r^  S*  iffrlv  •  ^pofia  S'  bTc6Tepov  ^o^\ei  Kd\€i  - 
aiiTT]  fiey  iv  ^Tipotaiv  iKTpipet.  ^porois  * 
b  S*  ^Afley  iir\  rkyTiitahov,  6  ^efi4\7is  y6vos, 
jStfrpuos-  hyphv  irufi*  eSpe  KelffTfveyKaTO 
BvT]TotSi  h  iraM&i  rohs  roKaitr^povs  ^porohs. 
K^Tnjs,  *6rav  TrMjtrdaaiu  &fnreKov  poijs, 
ihryov  re,  \'f}6'r]v  ray  Kaff  7)/x4pay  KOKwy, 
SidafftVf  ou5'  ecT*  &K\o  (pdpfiaKou  'K6v(av^ 
ovTOS  Beoiffi  trvevBeTai  Behs  yey&>s, 
Siffre  Zih  TovTQV  rhyd^  ci.vdp(&irov5  ^X^lv, 
KoL  KOToyeX^s  yiv,  &s  ^vepf>d<pf)  Aths 
fi'Tip^'  SiS(i^a)  tf'  &s  KaKas  ix^i  TtfSe. 
iirei  viv  Tjpirotr*  ^k  irvphs  Kepavuiov 
Zehs,  Gis  h'^'OKvfxirov  $pe<pos  kvi\yayev  vehv^ 
"Hpa  Viv  ^OejC  e/cj3aA.e7|/  Att'  ovpavov, 
Zeis  S*  aj/refiTixo-J^'hf^o.T' }  oTa  S^  9e6s. 
^■ij^a?  fUpos  Tt  Tov  xQiiV*  4yKvK\ovfievov 
alOepos  €07jKe  TtJi^S'  cl/tijpoy  ^KBi^ohs 
Aiouvffov  "Hpas  veiKitav  •  XP^^V  ^^  ^'^ 
fipOTol.  rpa^^yat  <pa.<rLV  iv  fi^P^  Aihs,. 
6pofia  fieraa'T'fja'apres,.  '6ti  Beq,  6ehs 
^'Hp^  TToB^  difffipeuffe,  ffvvBivns  \oyov. 
fidpTis  S'  6  Baifiap  '6d.€  •  rh  yap  ^aKX^^frifiov 
KoX  ri  juawSSes  fiapTiKijp  iroW^p  ^x^^ ' 
brap  yap  6  Behs  eis  rh  ctw/a*  e\B^  iroX^s, 
Keyetp  to  (liKKop  rohs  fiefiTipSras  Troiet. 

translated  extracts  from  it  in  the  2Ed  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  469  ff. ;  and  the  extract 
there  given,  p.  474,  from  Plutarch  de  Isid.  et  Osir,  46,  in  which  the  soma,  or  as  it  is 
in  Zend,  haoma,  appears  to  he  referred  to  under  the  appellation  tfjuafii.  See  also  on 
the  fact  of  the  soma  rite  of  the  Indians  being  originally  identical  with  the  haoma 
ceremony  of  the  Zoroastrians,  Hang's  Aitareya  Brahmana,  Introd.,  p.  62. 


260  QUOTATION   FROM   EURIPIDES. 

"ApeiSs  T6  /ioipav  fteraAaPiiv  ?X"  Tivk. 
arparhv  yb.p  iy  SttKois  &vra  Kctirl  Tajetn 
tp6Pos  SieiTTOTjae,  irplv  \6yxt]^  Qvyeiv  • 
fxavia  5c  koI  tout*  ^ittX  J^ioviiffov  Trdpa,  K.r.K. 

"  I  cannot  express  how  great  this  young  god,  whom  thou  ridiculest, 
is  destined  to  become  in  Greece.  For,  young  man,  there  are  two  things 
which  are  the  foremost  among  men,  the  goddess  Demeter,  who  is  the 
Earth; — call  her  by  whichever  name  thou  pleasest; — who  nourishes 
mortals  with  dry  food.  But  he,  the  son  of  Semele,  took  the  contrary 
course.  He  discovered  and  introduced  among  men  the  liquid  draught 
of  the  grape,  which  puts  an  end  to  the  sorrows  of  wretched  mortals, — 
when  they  are  filled  with  the  stream  from  the  vine, — and  induces 
sleep,  and  oblivion  of  the  evils  endured  by  day.  Nor  is  there  any  other 
remedy  for  our  distresses.  He,  bom  a  god,  is  poured  out  in  libations 
to  gods,  so  that  through  him  men  receive  good.  And  thou  ridiculest 
him  by  saying  that  he  was  sewn  up  in  the  thigh  (fj/rjijiZ)  of  Zeus.  But 
I  shall  shew  thee  how  this  is  rendered  reasonable.  When  Zens  rescued 
the  infant  from  the  lightning-flame,  and  brought  him  to  Olympus,  Hera 
wished  to  expel  him  from  heaven.  But  Zeus,  like  a  god,  counteracted  • 
this  design.  Detaching  a  portion  of  the  aether  which  encircles  the 
earth,  he  gave  this  as  a  hostage  {ofj,rjpov)  to  Hera,  so  delivering  Dio- 
nysus from  her  hostility ;  and  in  course  of  time,  because  he  became  a 
hostage  to  Hera,  men  began  to  say, — changing  the  word,  and  inventing 
a  fable, — that  he  had  been  reared  in  the  thigh  of  Zeus.  And  this  god 
is  a  prophet.  For  Bacchic  excitement  and  raving  have  in  them  great 
prophetic  power.  When  this  god  enters  in  force  into  the  body,  he 
causes  men  to  rave  and  foretell  the  future.  And  he  also  partakes  of 
the  character  of  Ares  (Mars).  For  panic  (sometimes)  terrifies  a  force 
of  armed  men  drawn  up  in  battle  array,  before  the  actual  clashing  of 
the  hosts.     This  madness  too  is  derived  from  Dionysus."  ''* 

'"*  In  an  earlier  part  of  the  same  play,  verses  200  ff.  the  following  protest  against 
free  enquiry  in  religious  matters  is  put  by  the  poet  into  the  mouth  of  Teiresias,  who 
says  to  Cadmus : 

ovdhy  (ro(piC6fietr8a  roitri  Saifioart, 

■noLTpiovs  irapadoxci-s,  (is  0'  A/j/fjKiieas  XP^^V 

KeKT-fifiefff  oi/deU  aoTct  KOTa^aAe?  \6yoSf 

oiiS"  el  ii'  &Kpuv  Th  ao<l>hy  TjiipTirat  tppeyuv, 

"  In  things  that  touch  the  gods  it  is  not  good 
To  suffer  captious  reason  to  intrude. 


ANCIENT    SOMA-WOESHIP.  261 

(2)  Prevalence  and  enthusiastic  character  of  the  ancient  Soma-worship. 

Professor  Haug,  in  his  work  on  the  Aitareya  Brahmana  (Introd. 
p.  60),  thus  writes  of  the  soma  sacrifice  :  "Being  thus,"  {i.e.  through 
the  oblation  of  an  animal)  "  received  among  the  gods,  the  sacrificer  is 
deemed  worthy  to  enjoy  the  divine  beverage,  the  soma,  and  participate 
in  the  heavenly  kiiig,  who  is  Soma.  The  drinking  of  the  soma-juice 
makes  him  a  new  man ;  though  a  new  celestial  body  had  been  prepared 
for  him  at  the  Pravargya  ceremony,  the  enjoyment  of  the  soma  beverage 
transforms  him  again ;  for  the  nectar  of  the  gods  flows  for  the  first 
time  in  his  veins,  purifying  and  sanctifying  him." 

With  the  decline  of  the  Vedio  worship,  however,  and  the  intro- 
duction of  new  deities  and  new  ceremonies,  the  popularity  of  Soma 
gradually  decreased,  and  has  long  since  passed  away ;  and  his  name  is 
now  familiar  to  those  few  Brahmans  only  who  still  maintain  in  a  few 
places  the  early  Vedic  observances. 

The  hymns  addressed  to  Soma  were  intended  to  be  sung  while  the 
,  juice  of  the  plant,  said  to  be  produced  on  Mount  Mujavat,  E.V.  x.  34, 
1  (somasyeva  Maii^a/oatasya  hhahshah),^^^  from  which  he  takes  his  name 
(the  asclepias  acida  or  sarcostemma  viminale)  was  being  pressed  out  and 
purified.''*  They  describe  enthusiastically  the  flowing  forth  and  filtra- 
tion of  the  divine  juice,  and  the  effects  produced  on  the  worshippers, 
and  supposed  to  be  produced  on  the  gods,'''  by  partaking  of  the  bever- 
age.    Thus  the  first  verse  of  the  first  hymn  of  the  ninth  book  runs 

Traditions  banded  down  from  sire  to  son 

Since  time  itself  began  its  course  to  ran 

By  reasonings  never  can  be  undermined, 

Though  forged  by  intellects  the  most  refined." 
To  this  the  advocates  of  a  critical  investigation  into  the  truth  of  ancient  beliefs  might 
reply  in  the  words  of  the  Messenger  in  the  Helena  of  the  same  poet,  verses  1617  f. 
(though  their  original  application  was  different)  : 

ffi^povos  5*  htriiTTias 

oxiK  iiTTiv  oiSey  x^a''/«$TEpo>'  fipoTois. 

"  Nought  can  to  men  more  useful  be. 
Than  prudent  incredulity." 

393  Mujavm parvatah,  "Mujavat  is  a  hill,"  Nir.  ii.  8,  See  also  Vaj.  S.  iii.  61, 
and  commentary. 

394  See  the  process  as  described  by  'Windisohman,  after  Dr.  Stevenson,  in  the  2nd 
volume  of  this  work,  p.  470. 

3»5  See  Ait.  Br.  vi.  11,  quoted  above,  p.  88,  note  168. 


262     HOW  THE  SOMA-PLANT  "WAS  BEOTJGHT  TO  THE  EARTH. 

thus  :  Svadishthayd  maduhthaya  pcmasva  Soma  dharaya  Indrdya  pdtave 
sutal),  I  "0  Soma,  poured  out  for  Indra  to  drink,  flow  on  purely  in  a 
most  sweet  and  most  exhilarating  current."  In  vi.  47,  1,  2,  the  juice 
is  described  as  sweet,  honied,  pungent,  weR-flaYOured,  and  exhilarating. 
No  one  can  withstand  Indra  in  battle  when  he  has  drunk  it  {svadmsh 
kildyam  madhumdn  utdyam  tivrah  kildyam  rasavdn  utayam  \  uto  nu 
asya  papwdmsam  Indram  na  Icakhana  sahate  ahmesht  \  ayam  svddwr  iha 
maduhthah  cLbo).  When  quaffed,  it  stimulates  the  voice,  and  calls 
forth  ardent  conceptions  (ibid,  verse  3).  In  a  verse  (vHi.  48,  3,) 
already  quoted  abov«  (p.  90,  note),  in  the  account  of  Indra,  the 
worshippers  exclaim:  ""We  have  drunk  the  soma,  we  have  become 
immortal,  we  have  entered  into  light,  we  have  known  the  gods.  "What 
can  an  enemy  now  do  to  us,  or  what  can  the  malice  of  any  mortal 
effect,  0  thou  immortal  god  ?  " 

(3)  How  the  soma-pJant  was  hrought  to  the  ■ewrth. 

The  plant  is  said  to  have  been  brought  by  a  falcon,  i.  80,  2 
{somah  iymahhritah) ;  iii.  43,  7  (a  yum  te  \_Indraya']  iyenah  usate  i 
jabhdrd)  ;  viii.  71,  9  ;  from  the  sky,  iv.  26,  6  {rijipl  kyeno  dada- 
mdno  amium  pardvatah  hkuno  mandram  madam  |  somam  hharad 
dddrihdno  devamdn  divo  amushndd  uttardd  addya)  ;  viii.  84,  3 ;  by 
a  well-winged  bird,  or  Suparna,  to  Indra,  viii.  89,  8  (divam  suparno 
gatvdya  somam  vajrine  dhharat)  ;  or  from  a  mountain,  i.  93,  6  (ama- 
thndd  anyam  (somam)  pari  iyeno  adreh),  where  it  had  been  placed  by 
Varuna,  v.  85,  2  {divi  suryam  adadhdt  somam  adrau).  In  iii.  48,  2 ; 
V.  43,  4 ;  ix.  18,  1 ;  ix.  62,  4 ;  ix.  85,  10  ;  ix.  98,  9,  it  is  called 
girishthd  (found  on  a  mountain).  In  another  place,  ix.  113,  3,  it  is 
declared  to  have  been  brought  by  the  daughter  of  the  sun  from  the 
place  where  it  had  been  nourished  by  Parjanya,  the  rain-god,  when 
the  Gandharvas  took  it,  and  infused  into  it  sap  {Pwrjanya-vriddhim 
mahisham  tarn  suryasya  duMtd  'iharat  \  tarn  gandharvdh  praty  agri- 
bhnan  tarn  some  rasam  ddadhuh).  In  ix.  82,  3,  as  we  have  seen  above, 
p.  142,  Parjanya  is  said  to  be  the  father  of  Soma  ;  and  in  A.V. 
xix.  6,  16,  the  god  is  said  to  have  sprung  from  Purusha  (rdjmh 
Somasya .  .  .  .jdtasya  Purushdd  adhi). 

In  other  passages  a  Gandharva  is  connected  with  the  soma-plant,  the 
sphere  {pada)  of  which  he  is  said  to  protect,  and  all  the  forms  of  which 


HOW  THE  SOMA-PLANT  "WAS  BROUGHT  TO  THE  EARTH.     268 

he  is  said  to  manifest,  ix.  83,  4;  ix.  85,  12°''  {gandharvah  ittha 
padwm  asya  rakshati  \  urdhvo  gandhwrvo  adhi  ndhe  asthad  visvd  rupa^i 
pratichaksMno  asya).  The  Aitareya  Brahmana  has  the  following  story- 
regarding  the  mode  in  which  the  gods  obtained  soma  from  the  Gand- 
harvas,  i.  27.  Somo  vai  raja  gandhmrveshv  dsit  |  tain  deva^  cha  rishayas 
eha  ahhyadhyaycm  "hatham  ay  am  asmdn  somo  raja  dgaohhed"  iti  \  sd 
Vdg  alravU  "  strikdmah  vai  gandharvah  \  mayd  eva  striyd  hhutaya 
panayadhvam"  iti  "Na"  iti  devdh  airman  "hatham  vayam  tvad  rite 
sydma"  iti  \  sd  'iravlt  "krinita  eva  \  yarhi  vdva  vo  mayd  artho  bhavitd 
tarhy  eva  vo  'ham  punar  dgantdsmi"  iti  \  "tathd"  iti  \  tayd  mahdna- 
gnyd  bhutayd  Somam  rdjdnam  akrlnan  C'  "King  Soma  was  among 
the  Gandharvas.  The  gods  and  rishis  desired  him,  and  said  'How 
shall  we  get  him  to  come  to  us  ? '  Vach  said,  '  The  Gandharvas  are 
fond  of  females ;  buy  him  in  exchange  for  me  turned  into  a  female.' 
They  answered,  '  l^o :  how  can  we  live  without  thee  ?  '  She  rejoined, 
'  Buy  him,  and  whenever  you  have  occasion  for  me  I  shall  return  to 
you.'  They  agreed,  and  bought  king  Soma  with  Vach  turned  into  a 
female,  quite  naked  \i.e.  unchaste]."  See  Professor  Haug's  translation 
of  this  Brahmana,  p.  59,  and  compare  pp.  201  ff. ;  294 ;  and  400. 

In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  iii.  2,  4,  Iff.,  it  is  related  that  the 
soma  existed  formerly  in  the  sky,  whilst  the  gods  were  here  (on  earth). 
They  desired  to  get  it,  that  they  might  employ  it  in  sacrifice.  The 
Gayatri  flew  to  bring  it  for  them.  "While  she  was  carrying  it  off  the 
Gandharva  Vibhavasu  robbed  her  of  it.  The  gods  became  aware  of 
this,  and  knowing  the  partiality  of  the  Gandharvas  for  females  (com- 
pare iii.  9,  3,  20,  and  A.V.  iv.  37,  11  f.),  they  sent  Yach,  the  goddess 
of  speech,  to  get  it  from  them,  which  she  succeeded  in  doing  {Dvoi  vai 
somah  dsit  \  atha  iha  devdh  \  te  devdh  akdmayanta  "  a  nah  somo  gachhet 

396  gee  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  under  the  word  Qandharva. 

8"  The  Taitt.  Br.  vi.  1,  6,  3  (pp.  90  ff.  of  Indian  Office  MS.),  tells  the  same  story, 
but  says  that  they  turned  Vach  into  a  woman  one  year  old ;  and  that  after  she  had 
gone  they  induced  her  to  come  hack  by  singing  (the  Gandharvas,  whom  she  had  left, 
meanwhile  reciting  a  prayer,  or  incantation),  and  hence  women  love  a  man  who  sings 
{fam  somam  ahriymnanam  gandha/rvo  Visvavasuh  pwrya/mwshmt  ]  .  .  te  devah 
airwvcm  " strikamah  vai  gandharvah  atriya  nishkrimima"  iti  \  te  Vacham 
striyam  ekaKayamm  kritva  taya  nirakrinan  \  sa  rohid-rupam  kritva  gandharve- 
hhyo  'pakroMiya  atishthat  \  tad  rohito  janma  |  te  devah  dbnmam  "  apa  yush/inad 
akramm  na  asman  wpavarttate  vihvayai"  iti  \  brahma  gandharvah  avadann  |  agayan 
devah  |  sa  devan  gayatah  iipavarttata  \  tasmad  gayantam  striyah  kdmayante  | 
kamuka  enam  striyo  bhavanti  ya  evam  veda). 


264  SOMA'S  WIVES. 

tena  agatena  yajemahi'^  iti  |  ....  2.  Telhyo  gayatri  somam  acTiha 
a/patat  \  tasyai  aharantyai  gandharvo  Viivavamh  paryamrnhnat  \  te 
devah  aviduh  " praehyuto  vai  parastdt  somah  |  atha  no  na  agaohhati  | 
gandhmrvah  vai  paryamosfdshur"  iti  \  te  ha  uchur  "  yosMt-Mmah  vai 
gandharvdh  \  Vacham  eva  ehhyah  prahinmama  \  so,  nah  mha  somena 
agamishyati"  iti  |  telhyo  Vacham  prahinvan  so.  endn  saha  somena 
dgaohhat.  And  in  xi.  7,  2,  8,  it  is  said:  "The  soma  existed  in  the 
sky.  The  Gayatri  became  a  bird,  and  brought  it"  {divi  vai  Somah 
dstt  tarn  gdyatri  vayo  Ihutvd  "ha/rat).  See  also  the  S'atapatha  Brah- 
mana,  iii.  4,  3,  13,  and  iii.  6,  2,  2-18,  towards  the  close  of  which 
passage,  as  well  as  in  iii.  9,  3,  18,  the  Gandharras  are  spoken  of  as 
the  guardians  of  the  soma  {somarakshdh)  ;  and  Taitt.  Sanh.  vi.  1,  6, 1,  5. 

(4)  Soma's  wives. 

The  Taitt.  Sanh.,  ii.  3,  5,  1,  relates  that  Prajapati  had  thirty-three 
daughters  whom  he  gave  to  king  Soma.  Soma,  howeTer,  frequented 
the  society  of  Eohini  only.  This  aroused  the  jealousy  of  the  rest,  who 
returned  to  their  father.  Soma  followed,  and  asked  that  they  should 
go  back  to  him,  to  which,  however,  Prajapati  would  not  agree  tiU 
Soma  had  promised  to  associate  with  them  all  equally.  He  agreed; 
but  again  behaved  as  before,  when  he  was  seized  with  consumption, 
etc.  {Prajdpates  trayastrimiad  duhitarah  dsan  \  tdh  Somdya  rdj'ne 
'daddt  I  tdsdm  JRohimm  upait  \  tdh  irshyantih  punar  agachhan  \  tdh 
anvait  \  tah  puna/r  aydchata  \  tdh  asmai  na  punar  adadat  \  so  'hravid 
"ritam  amishva  yathd  samdvaohhah  upaiahydmi  atha  te  punar  ddsydmi" 
iti  I  sa  ritam  dmit  \  tdh  asmai  punar  adaddt  \  tdsdm  Rohinlm  em 
upait  I  yaleshma  drchhaf^.  In  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  3,  10,  1  ff.,  another 
story  is  told  of  Soma.  Prajapati  created  him  ;  and  after  him  the  three 
Vedas,  which  he  took  into  his  hand.  Now,  Sita  Savitrl  loved  Soma, 
while  he  loved  S'raddha.  Sita  came  to  her  father  Prajapati,  and, 
saluting  him,  asked  to  be  allowed  to  approach  him  with  her  complaint. 
She  loved  Soma,  she  said,  while  he  loved  S'raddha.  Prajapati  made 
for  her  a  paste  formed  of  a  sweet  smelling  substance,  to  which  he 
imparted  potency  by  the  recitation  of  certain  formulas,  and  then 
painted  it  upon  her  forehead.  She  then  returned  to  Soma,  who  in- 
vited her  to  approach  him.     She  desired  him  to  promise  her  his 


PEOPEETIES  ASCEIBED  TO  THE  SOMA-JUICE,  ETC.         265 

society,  and  to  tell  her  what  he  had  in  his  hand ;  whereupon  he  gave 
her  the  three  Vedas ;  and  in  consequence  women  always  ask  for  some 
gift  as  a  price  for  their  embraces,  etc.  The  Brahmana  goes  on  to 
recommend  the  use  of  the  same  paste,  prepared  with  the  same  formulas, 
as  a  spedific  for  producing  love  or  good  will  (Prafdpatih  Somam  rajanam 
asryata  |  tarn  trayo  vedah  anv  asrijyanta  \  tan  haste  'kuruta  |  atha  ha 
SUd  Savitrl  Somam  rajanam  chakame  \  S'raddham  u  sa  chaJcame  |  so,  ha 
pitaram  Praja'patim  wpasasara  \  tarn  ha  uvacha  "namas  te  astu  hha- 
gavah  \  wpa  tva  ayani  (2)  pra  tvd  dpadye  \  Somam  vai  rdjdnam  hamaye 
S'raddhdm  u  sa  Jcdmayate. "  iti  |  tasyai  u  ha  sthdgaram  alanMram 
kalpayitvd  daiahotdram  purastdd  vydhhydya  chaturhotarafk  dahshinatah 
panohahotdram  pakohdt  shaddhotdram  uttaratah  saptahotdram  uparishtdt 
sambhdraii  patnibhU  cha  mukhe  alankritya  \  3.  Asya  arddham  vmrdja  \ 
tdm  ha  udlhshya  uvdcha  "  i^a  md  varttasva  "  iti  \  tarn  ha  wodeha  "  hho 
gantum  (the  commentator  explains  the  phrase  as  if  he  read  hhogam  tu) 
me  dohakshva  \  etan  me  dehakshva  yat  te  pdndv  "  iti  |  tasyai  u  trln 
veddn  pradadau  \  tasmdd  u  ha  striyo  hhogam  eva  hdrayante). 

(5)  Properties  ascribed  to  the  soma-j'uice  or  its  presiding  deity. 

The  juice  of  this  plant  is  said  to  be  an  immortal  ^^  draught,  i.  84,  4 
[jyeshtham  ama/rtyam  madam)  which  the  gods  love,  ix.  85,  2  {daksho 
devdndm  asi  hi  priyo  madah) ;  ix.  109,  15  {pihanti  asya  viive  devdso 
golhih  sritasya  nrihhih  sutasya),'^^^  to  be  medicine  for  a  sick  man,  viii. 
61,  17  {tad  dturasya  hheshajam).  All  the  gods  drink  of  it,  ix.  109,  15 
{piianti  asya  viive  devdsah).  The  god  who  is  its  personification  is  said 
to  clothe  whatever  is  naked,  and  to  heal  whatever  is  sick ;  through 
him  the  blind  sees,  and  the  lame  walks  abroad,  viii.  68,  2  {abhy  urnoti 
yan  nagnam  Ihishalcti  viivam  yat  twam  \  pra  tm  andhah  khyat  nih  srono 
hhut);  X.  25,  11.  He  is  the  guardian  of  men's  bodies,  and  occupies 
their  every  member,  viii.  48,  9  {tvam  hi  nas  tanvah  soma  gopdlp  gdtre 
gdtre  nishasattha  nriohaHShah). 

"9  This  means,  according  to  Sayana,  that  it  has  no  deadly  effects,  like  other  in- 
toxicating drinks  {soma^&m^anyo  mado  maddntara-vat  maraho  na  bha/vati  ity  arthalC). 

399  The  Taitt.  Br.  i.  3,  3,  2,  says  that  soma  is  the  best  nourishment  of  the  gods, 
and  wine  of  men,  and  ibid.  4,  that  soma  is  a  male  and  the  wine  a  female,  and  the  two 
make  a  pair  (^etad  vai  devanam  paramam  annam  yat  somah  etad  manushyanam  yat 
aura  \  4.  Fuman  vai  somalf  stri  sura  |  tarn  mithtmam). 


266  DIVINE  POWEES  ATTRIBUTED  TO  SOMA. 

(6)  Bieim  powers  attributed  to  Soma. 

A  great  variety  of  divine  attributes  and  operations  are  ascribed  to 
Soma.  As  Professor  Whitney  observes,  lie  is  "addressed  as  a  god  in 
the  highest  strains  of  adulation  and  veneration ;  all  powers  Belong  to 
him ;  all  blessings  are  besought  of  him,  as  his  to  bestow  "  (Joum. 
Amer.  Or.  Soc.  iii.  299).  He  is  said  to  be  aswa,  divine  (ix.  73,  1 ; 
ix.  74,  7),  and  the  soul  of  sacrifice,  atma  yajnasya  (ix.  2,  10 ;  ix.  6,  8). 
He  is  immortal,  amrita  (i.  43,  9),  and  confers  immortality  on  gods  and 
men,  i.  91,  1,  6,  18  ;  viii.  48,  3,  quoted  above,  p.  90,  note  ;  ix.  106, 
8  {tvdm  devaso  amritdya  ham  papuh) ;  ix.  108,  3  {tvam  hi  anga  daivyd 
pa/oamana  janimani  dyumattama  amritatvaya  ghoshayaK) ;  ix.  109,  3  [eva 
amritdya  make  hshayaya  sa  iukro  a/riha  dmyah  piyushaA)A'"  In  a  passage 
(ix.  113,  7  if.)  where  the  joys  of  paradise  are  more  distinctly  antici- 
pated and  more  fervently  implored  than  in  most  other  parts  of  the  Eig- 
veda.  Soma  is  addressed  as  the  god  from  whom  the  gift  of  future  felicity 
is  expected.  Thus  it  is  there  said :  yatra  jyotir  ajasram  yasmin  loh 
svar  hitam  |  tasmin  main,  dhehi  pmamdna  amrite  loJce  ahhite  \  yatra 
raja  Vaivasvato  yatrdvarodhanam  divah  |  yatrdmur  yahvatlr  dpas  tatra 
mam  amritam  kridhi  |  7.  "  Place  me,  o  purified  god,  in  that  everlasting 
and  imperishable  world  where  there  is  eternal  light  and  glory.  0  Indu 
(soma),  flow  for  Indra.  8.  Make  me  immortal  in  the  world  where 
king  Vaivasvata  (Yama,  the  son  of  Vivas  vat.)  lives,  where  is  the 
innermost  sphere  of  the  sky,  where  those  great  waters  flow."  The 
three  following  verses  may  be  reserved  for  the  section'  on  Tama. 

Soma  exhilarates  Varuna,  Mitra,  Indra,  Vishnu,  the  Maruts,  the 
other  gods,  Vayu,  Heaven  and  Earth-,  ix.  90,  5  {matsi  Soma  Ta/rmam 
matai  Mitram  matsi  Ind/ram  Indo  pavamdna  Vishnum  \  matsi  Sardho 
mdrutam  matsi  devan  matsi  mahdm  Indram  Indo  maddya) ;  ix.  97,  42 
{matsi  Vayum  ishtaye  rddhase  cha  matsi  Mitrd-varuna  puyamdnah  | 
matsi  sardho  mdrutam  matsi  devdn  matsi  Dyavd-prithivl  deva  Soma). 
Both  gods  and  men  resort  to  him,  saying  that  his  juice  is  sweet,  viii. 
48,  1  (vihe  yam  devdh  uta  martydso  madhu  hruvanto  ahhi  sancharanti). 
By  him  (but  see  p.  270)  the  Adityas  are  strong,  and  the  earth  vast,  x. 
85,  2  {somena  Aditydh  lalinah  somena  prithivi  mahl).   He  is  the  friend, 

^o"  In  regard  to  the  manner  in  wMch  the  gods  acquired  immortality,  see  the  S'atap 
Br.  ix.  5,  1,  1  ff.  quoted  above  p.  14,  note  21. 


DIVINE   POWERS    ATTRIBtTTED    TO    SOMA.  267 

helper,  and  soul  of  Indra,  iv.  28,  1  {tva  ywja  tava  tat  soma  aakhye 
Indro  apo  manave  sasrutas  hah  \  2.  Tva  yiy'a  ni  khidat  Suryasya  IndraS 
ehahram  sahasa  sadya^  Indo) ;  ix.  85,  3  {atma  Indrasya  hhavasi) ;  x. 
25,  9  {Indrasyendo  iivah  sakha),  -whose  vigour  he  stimulates,  ix.  76,  2 
{Indrasya  ^tishmam  irayan),  and  whom  he  succours  in  his  conflicts 
with  Vritra,  ix.  61,  22  {yah  Indram  avitha  Vritraya  hantave).     He 
rides  in  the  same  chariot  with  Indra,  Indrena  saratham  (ix.  87,  9; 
ix.  103,  5).     He  has,  however,  winged  mares  of  his  own,  and  a  team 
like  Vayu,  ix.  86,   37  {Isanah  imd   Ihuvanani  viyase  yvjanah  Indo 
hmitah  supwrm/aK) ;  ix.  88,  3  {vayv/r  na  yo  niyutvdn  ishtayamd).     He 
ascends  his  filter  in  place  of  a  car,  and  is  armed  with  a  thousand- 
pointed  shaft,  ix.  83,  5 ;  ix.  86,  40  {pavitra-rathah  sahasrahh  rishtih). 
His  weapons  which,  like  a  hero,  he  grasps  in  his  hand,  ix.  76,  2 
{iuro  na  dhatte  ayudhd  gabhastyoh),  are  sharp  and  terrible,  ix.  61,  30 
{IMmani  ayudhd  tigmani),  and  his  bow  swift-darting,  ix.  90,  3  {tigmd- 
yudhah  kshipradhanvd).    He  is  the  slayer  of  Vritra,  vritrahan,  or  vri- 
trahantama  (i.  95,  5  ;  ix.  24,  6  ;   ix.  25,  3 ;    ix.  28,  3  ;   x.  25,  9),  and, 
lite  Indra,  the  destroyer  of  foes,  and  overthrower  of  cities,  ix.  61,  2 ; 
ix.  68,   4    {Indro  na  yo  mahd  karmdni  chakrir  hantd  vritrdnam  asi 
Soma  purhhit).     In  ix.  5,  9,  he  appears  to  receive   the  epithet  of 
prajdpati,  lord  of  creatures.     He  is  the  creator  and  father  of  the  gods, 
ix.  42,  4  {hrandan  devdn  ajijanat) ;   ix.  86,  10  {pita  devdndm  janitd 
vihhuvasuh)  ;  ix.  87,  2  {pita  devdndm  janitd  mdakshah) ;    ix.  109,  4  ; 
the  generator  of  hymns,  of  Dyaus,  of  Prithivl,  of  Agni,  of  Surya,  of 
Indra,  and  of  Vishnu,  ix.  96,  5  {Somah  pavate  janitd  matinam  janitd 
Bi/oo  janitd  Prithivydh  \  janitd  Agner  janitd  Suryasya  janitd  Indrasya 
janitota  Vishnoh).     He  dispels  the  darkness,  i.  91,  22  {tvamjyotishd  vi 
tamo  vavartha) ;  ix.  66,  24  {sukram  jyotvr  ajijanat  \  krishnd  tamdmsi 
janghanat),  lights  up  the  gloomy  nights,  vi.  39,  3  {wyam   dyotayad 
adyuto  vi  aktun) ;  and  has  created  and  lighted  up  the  sun,  the  great 
luminary  common  to  all  mankind,  vi.  44,  23  {ayafn  surye  adadhdj 
jyotvr  antah) ;  ix.  61,  16  {pavamdno  cyljanad  divai  chitram  na  tanya- 
tum  1  jyotir  vaihdnaram  hrihat) ;  ix.  97,  41  {ajanayat  surye  jyoti/r_ 
Induh) ;    ix.  107,  7  {a  suryam  rdha/yo  divi)  ;   ix.  110,  3  {ajijano  hi 
pamamdna  Suryam).     He  stretched  out  the  atmosphere,  i.  91,  22  {tvam 
a  tatantha  uru  antariksham) ;    vi.  47,  3  f.  ;    and  in  concert  with  the 
Fathers  {Pitris),  the  Sky  and  the  Earth,  viii.  48,  13  {team  Soma  pitri- 


268  DIVINE   POWERS   ATTEIBUTED    TO    SOMA. 

hhih  saihvidano  arm  dydvaprithivl  a  tatantha).  He  is  the  upTiolder  of 
the  sky  and  the  sustainer  of  the  earth,  keeping  the  two  apart,  vi.  44, 
24  {ayaffi  dydvdprithivi  vi  skabhdyat) ;  vi.  47,  5  (ayam  mahdn  mahatd 
skamhhanena  ud  dydm  astdbhndd  vrishahho  marutvdn) ;  ix.  87,  2  {viah- 
tamhho  divo  dharunah  prithivydK)  ;  ix.  89,  6;  ix.  109,  6.  He  pro- 
duced in  the  sacrifices  the  two  divine  worlds,  which  are  kindly  disposed 
to  men,  ix.  98,  9  {sa  vdm  yajneshu  manavl  Indur  janishta  rodasi  \  devo 
devi).  He  is  king  of  gods  and  men,  ix.  97,  24  (rdj'd  devdnam  uta 
martydndm),  elevated  over  aU  worlds  [or  beings]  like  the  divine  sun, 
ix.  54,  3  {ayafh  visvdni  tishthati  pundno  Ihuvanopari  \  soma  devo  na 
suryah).  All  creatures  are  in  his  hand,'ix.  89,  6  (visvdh  uta  hahitayo 
haste  asya).*"^  His  laws  are  like  those  of  king  Yaruna,  i.  91,  3 ;  ix. 
88,  8  (rdj'no  nu  te  Varunasya  watdni) ;  and  he  is  prayed  to  forgive 
their  violation,  and  to  he  gracious  as  a  father  to  a  son,  and  to  deliver 
from  death,  viii.  48,  9  {j/at  te  vayam  pramindma  vratdni  sa  no  mrila 
sushahhd  deva  vasyah)  ;  x.  25,  3  [uta  vratdni  Soma  te  pra  aham 
mindmi  pakyd  \  adha  piteva  sunave  vi  vo  made  mrila  no  ahhi  chid 
vadhad  vvoahhase).  He  is  thousand-eyed,  ix.  60,  1,  2  {sdhasra- 
chahhas),  and  sees  and  knows  all  creatures,  and  hurls  the  irre- 
ligious into  the  abyss,  ix.  73,  8  (vidvdn  sa  vihd  ihuvand  'hhi  pai- 
yati  ava  ajusMdn  vidhyati  karte  avratdn) ;  and  guards  the  lives  of  all 
moving  beings  as  a  cowherd  tends  his  cattle,  x.  25,  6  {pasufh,  na  Soma 
raJcshasi purutrd  vishthitam  j'agat  |  samdJcrinoshi  jlvase  vi  vo  made  vihd 
sampa^yan  hhuvand  vivaJcshase).  He  is  the  chief  and  most  fiery  of  the 
formidable,  the  most  heroic  of  heroes,  the  most  bountiful  of  the  benefi- 
cent, and  as  a  warrior  he  is  always  victorious,*"^  ix.  66,  16  (mahdn  asi 

401  Compare  some  additional  passages  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  98  f. 

^"^  In  ix.  96,  16,  19,  his  weapons  are  referred  to;  in  vi.  44,  22,  he  is  said  to  have 
robbed  his  malignant  father  of  his  weapons  and  his  magical  devices  (ayam  svasya 
pitur  Syiodhani  Indur  amushnad  asivasya  may  ah).  It  is  related  in  the  Ait.  Br. 
i.  14,  that  there  was  formerly  war  between  the  gods  and  the  Asuras.  They  fought 
together  in  the  east,  south,  west,  and  north,  and  in  all  these  quarters  the  Asuras 
were  victorious.  In  the  north-east,  however,  the  gods  were  not  overcome,  for  that  is 
"  the  unconquerable  region."  The  gods  ascribed  their  former  defeats  to  the  fact  of 
their  having  no  king,  and  agreed  to  make  Soma  their  monarch,  after  which  they  were 
victorious  on  all  the  points  of  the  compass  [Bemsurah  vai  eshit  lolceshu  samayatanta  J 
tatah  etasyam  praehyam  didi  ayatanta  |  tains  tato  '  surali  ajayan  \  .  . .  .te  ncRchyam 
prachyam  diii  ayatanta  \  te  tato  na  parajayanta  |  sa  esha  dig  aparajita  \  .  .  .  .  te 
demh  ahruvann  "  arajataya  vai  no  jayanti  \  rajanam  karavamahai"  iti  \  "tatha" 
iti  I  te  somam  rajanam  akiirvan  \  te  somena  rajna  sarvah  dis'o  'Jayan), 


SOMA   ASSOCIATED    WITH    OTHER    GODS.  269 

soma  jyeshthah  ugranam  Indo  ojMfhah  \  yudhvd  son  iahadjigetha  |  17. 
Tah  ugrebhyak  chid  ojlyan  iurehhyas  chit  suratarah  \  Ihuridalhyai  chid 
mmhhiy&n).  He  conquers  for  his  worshippers  cows,  chariots,  horses, 
gold,  heaven,  water, — a  thousand  desirable  things,  ix.  78,  4  i^gojin  nah 
soma  rathajid  hiranyajit  svarjid  abjit  pavate  sahasrajit),  and  every  thing, 
viii.  68,  1  (viivy'it).  He  is  a  wise  rishi,  viii.  68,  1  (rishir  viprah 
Mvyena);  strong,  skilful,  omniscient,  prolific,  glorious,  i.  91,  2  (tvam 
Soma  Tcratulhih  suhratur  hhus  tvam  dahhaih  sudaksho  visvavedah  |  tvam 
vrisha  vrishatvebhir  mahitva  dyumnebhi/r  dyumni  abhavo  nriehalcBhah). 
He  is  the  priest  of  the  gods,  the  leader  of  poets,  a  rishi  among  sages, 
a  bull  among  wild  animals,  a  falcon  among  kites,  an  axe  in  the 
woods,  ix.  96,  6  {hrahma  devdndm  padavih  iavinSm  rishir  viprdndm 
mahisho  mrigdndm  \  syeno  gridhrdndm  svadhitir  vandndm).  He  is 
an  unconquerable  protector  from  enemies;  i.  91,  21  {ashalham  yutsu 
pritanasu  paprim)  ;  x.  25,  7  {tvarh  nah  Soma  visvato  gopdh  addhhyo 
Ihava  \  sedha  rdjann  apa  sridhah).  If  he  desires  that  his  votaries 
shaU  live,  they  do  not  die,  i.  91,  6  {tvam  cha  soma  no  vaso  j'loatum  na 
maramahe).  In  viii.  48,  7,  he  is  prayed  to  prolong  their  lives,  as  the 
sun  the  days  {Soma  raj'an  pra  nah  dyumshi  tdrir  ahdniva  suryo  vdsa- 
rdni).  In  x.  59,  4,  he  is  prayed  not  to  abandon  the  worshipper  to 
death  [mo  shu  nah  soma  mrityave  pard  ddh).  The  friend  of  a  god 
like  him  cannot  suffer,  i.  91,  8  (na  rishyet  tvatavah  saJchd).  The 
friendship  and  intimacy  of.  such  a  god  is  eagerly  desired,  ix.  66,  18 
{yrinlmahe  salchydya  vrimmahe  yujydya).  In  x.  30,  5,  he  is  said  to 
rejoice  in  the  society  of  the  waters,  as  a  man  in  that  of  beautiful 
young  women  {ydihih  soma  modate  harshate  cha  Jcalydnilhir  yuvatihhir 
na  maryali). 

(7)  Soma  associated  with  other  gods. 

Soma  is  associated  with  Agni  as  an  object  of  adoration  in  i.  93,  1  ff. 
In  verse  5  of  that  hymn  those  two  gods  are  said  to  have  placed  the 
luminaries  in  the  sky  {yuvam  etani  divi  rochandni  Agnis  cha  Soma 
sukratu  adhattam).  In  the  same  way  Soma  and  Pushau  are  conjoined 
in  ii.  40,  1  ff.,  where  various  attributes  and  functions  of  a  magnificent 
character  are  ascribed  to  them.  Thus,  in  verse  1,  they  are  said  to  be 
the  generators  of  wealth,  and  of  heaven  and  earth,  to  have  been  born 


270      SOMA  IN  THE  POST-VEDIC  AGE  A  NAME  OF  THE  MOON. 

the  guardians  of  the  -whole  universe,  and  to  have  been  made  by  the 
gods  the  centre  of  immortality  '^janana  rayinam  janana  divo  janand 
pritMvydh  \  jatau  viSvasya  hhmanasya  gopau  devah  akrinvann  amritaaya 
n&bhim).  The  one  has  made  his  abode  in  the  sky,  and  the  other  on 
the  earth,  and  in  the  atmosphere  (verse  4).  The  one  has  produced  all 
the  worlds,  and  the  other  moves  onward  beholding  all  things  (verse  5) 
(4.  Bivi  anyak sadanam  chakre  wchchd'prithwydm  anyo  adhi  antwrihshe  \ 
5.  Visvani  anyo  hhuvana  j'afana  viivam  anyo  ahhichalcshdnah.  eti).  In 
vi.  72,  and  vii.  104,  Soma  and  Indra  are  celebrated  in  company.  In 
the  first  of  these  hymns  they  are  said  to  dispel  darkness,  to  destroy 
revilers,  to  bring  the  sun  and  the  light,  to  prop  up  the  sky  with  sup- 
ports, and  to  have  spread  out  mother  earth  (verse  1.  Ytivam  Suryam 
vividathur  yuvaih  svar  visvd  tamdmai  ahatam  nida^  cha  \  2.  Vdsayathai^ 
ushdsam  ut  suryam  nayatho  Jyotishd  saha  \  wpa  dydm  sTeanibhathuh  sJcam- 
Ihanena  aprathatavu  prithivlm  mdtaram  vi).  In  vii.  104,  their  ven- 
geance is  invoked  against  Eakshases,  Yatudhanas,  and  other  enemies. 

Hymn  vi.  74,  is  dedicated  to  the  honour  of  Soma  and  Eudra  con- 
jointly. The  two  gods,  who  are  said  to  be  armed  with  sharp  weapons 
{tigmdyudhau  tigmdheti)  are  there  supplicated  for  blessings  to  man 
and  beast,  for  healing  remedies,  and  for  deliverance  from  sin  {sam  no 
hJiutam  dvipade  iam  chatushpade  \  etani  asme  vUvd  tanushu  hheshajdm 
dhattam  \  ava  syatam  munchatam  yan  no  asti  tanushu  haddham  kritam 
eno  asmat). 

(8)  Soma  in  the  post-vedic  age  a  name  of  the  moon. 

In  the  post-vedic  age  the  name  Soma  came  to  be  commonly  applied 
to  the  moon  and  its  regent.  Even  in  the  Eig-veda,  some  traces  of  this 
application  seem  to  be  discoverable.  Thus  in  x.  85,  2  if.  (which,  how- 
ever, Professor  Both  regards  as  of  comparatively  modern  date :  111.  of 
Nir.  p.  147),  there  appears  to  be  an  allusion  to  the  double  sense  of  the 
word:  2:  Somehdditydh  halinah,  Somena  prithivi  mahi  \  atho  nahshat- 
trdndm  eshdm  upasthe  Somah  ahitah  \  3.  Somam  many  ate  papivdn  yat  sam- 
pimshanti  oshadhim  \  Somam  yam  hrc^mdno  vidurna tasydsnati kaschana  \ 
4.  Achhadvidhdnair  gupito  hdrhataih  Soma  rakshitah  \  grdvndm  it  irin- 
van  tishthasi  na  te  a^ndti  pdrthivah  \  5.  Yat  tva  devdh  prapihanti  tatah 
dpydyase  punah  \  Vdyuh  Somasya  rakshitd  samdndm  mdsah  dkritih  \ 


SOMA  IN  THE  POST-VEDIC  AGE  A  NAME  OF  THE  MOON.      271 

"  2.  By  Soma  the  Adityas  are  strong ;  by  Soma  the  earth  is  great ;  and 
Soma  is  placed  in  the  centre  of  these  stars.  3.  When  they  crush  the 
plant,  he  who  drinks  regards  it  as  Soma.  Of  him  whom  the  priests 
regard  as  Soma  (the  moon)  no  one  drinks.  4.  Protected  by  those  -who 
shelter  thee,  and  preserved  by  thy  guardians,*"'  thou,  Soma,  hearest 
the  sound  of  the  crushing-stones;  but  no  earthly  being  tastes  thee. 
5.  When  the  gods  drink  thee,  o  god,  thou  increasest  again.  Vayu  is  the 
guardian  of  Soma :  the  month  is  a  part  of  the  years."  *°*  In  the 
Atharva-veda  the  following  half-verse  occurs,  xi,  6,  7  :  Somo  ma  devo 
munchatu  yam  dhus  ehandramdh  iti  \  "  May  the  god  Soma  free  me,  he 
whom  they  call  the  moon."  And  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.  6,  4, 
5 ;  xi.  1,  3,  2 ;  xi.  1,  3,  4,  and  xi.  1,  4,  4,  we  have  the  words :  Esha 
vai  Somo  raja  devdnam  annarh  yat  ehandramdh  \  "This  king  Soma, 
who  is  the  moon,  is  the  food  of  the  gods."  Similarly  in  xi.  1,  3,  5  : 
ehandramdh  vai  Somo  devdnam  annam  \  "  Soma  is  the  moon,  the  food 
of  the  gods."  See  also  i.  6,  3,  24 :  Suryah  eva  dgneyah  |  ehandramdh 
iwumyah  \  "  The  sun  has  the  nature  of  Agni,  the  moon  of  Soma ;  "  and 
xii.  1,  1,  2  :  Somo  vai  ehandramdh  |  "  Soma  is  the  moon."  In  v.  3,  3, 
12,  and  in  ix.  4,  3,  16,  Soma  is  said  to  be  the  king  of  the  Brahmans 
{Somo  'smdleam  Irdhmandndm  rdjd).  In  the  Vishnu  Purana  (book  i. 
chap.  22,  p.  85  of  Wilson's  translation,  vol.  2,  Dr.  Hall's  ed.)  the 
double  character  of  Soma  is  indicated  in  these  words :  "  Brahma  ap- 
pointed Soma  to  be  monarch  of  the  stars  and  planets,  of  Brahmans  and 
of  plants,  of  sacrifices  and  of  austere  devotions"  {nahshattra-graha- 
viprdndm  virudhdm  ehdpy  aieshafah  \  Somam  rdjye  dadau  Brahmd  yaj- 
ndnam  tapasdm  api). 

*"'  The  word  so  rendered  is  larhataih.  In  tlie  Lexicon  of  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth, 
S.V.,  its  sense  is  said  to  be  doubtful.  Professor  Weber  (Ind.  St.  t.  178  ff.  where 
these  verses,  with  the  rest  of  the  hymn  in  which  they  occur,  is  translated  and  anno- 
tated) renders  it  "lofty  ones"  (Erhabene).  Langlois  makes  it  "  overseers."  The 
moon  is  mentioned  again  in  verses  18  and  19.  In  E.V.  viii.  71,  8,  Soma  sparkling 
in  the  cups  is  compared  to  the  moon  shining  on  the  waters  (j/o  apsu  chandramSh  iva 
somas'  chamushu  dadrise  \  piba  id  asya  tvam  tsishe).  See  Professor  Benfey's  note  on 
K.V.  i.  84,  15,  in  his  Orient  and  Occident,  ii.  246. 

404  Veber  and  Langlois  take  masah  for  a  nominative.  Bohtlingk  and  Both  cite 
the  passage  under  mSs,  thus  making  it  a  genitive. 


272 


SECTION    XVII. 

BRIHASPATI  AND  BEAHMANASPATI. 

I  will  commence  my  description  of  this  god  mtli  a  translation  of  the 
account  given  of  him  in  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon  :  "Brihaspati, 
alternating  with  Brahmanaspati,  is  the  name  of  a  deity  in  whom  the 
action  of  the  worshipper  upon  the  gods  is  personified.  He  is  the 
suppliant,  the  saoriflcer,  the  priest,  who  intercedes  with  the  gods  on 
behalf  of  men,  and  protects  them  against  the  wicked.  Hence  he 
appears  as  the  prototype  of  the  priests,  and  the  priestly  order ;  and  is 
also  designated  as  the  purohita  of  the  divine  community."  The  ancient 
Indian  conception  of  this  deity  is  more  fully  explained  in  Professor 
Eoth's  dissertation  on  "Brahma  and  the  Brahmans,".*°°  in  the  first 
volume  of  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  pp.  66  ff., 
where  the  author  well  points  out  the  essential  difference  between  the 
original  idea  represented  in  this  god  and  those  expressed  in  most  of  the 
other  and  older  divinities  of  the  Veda,  consisting  in  the  fact  that  the 
latter  are  personifications  of  various  departments  of  nature,  or  of 
physical  forces,  while  the  former  is  the  product  of  moral  ideas,  and 
an  impersonation  of  the  power  of  devotion.  From  this  paper  I  ex- 
tract the  following  remarks :  "  Brahma,  on  the  other  hand  [in  con- 
tradistinction to  deva],  has  an  entirely  different  point  of  departure, 
and  significance.  Its  original  sense,  as  easily  discovered  in  the  Vedic 
hymns,  is  that  of  prayer ;  not  praise  or  thanksgiving,  but  that  species 
of  invocation  which,  with  the  force  of  the  will  directed  to  the  god, 
desires  to  draw  him  to  the  worshipper,  and  to  obtain  satisfaction  from 
him.  It  denotes  the  impetuous  supplication  which  was  natural  to  that 
ancient  faith,  and  which  sought,  as  it  were,  to  wrest  from  the  god  the 

*05  Portions  of  this  paper  were  long  ago  translated  by  me  in  the  Benares  Magazine. 


BRIHASPATI  AND   BKAHMANASPATI.  273 

boon  which  it  demanded"  (p.  67).  "Immediately  derived  from  this 
neuter  noun  brahma  is  the  name  of  the  god  Brahmanaspati,  who  is,  in 
many  respects,  a  remarkable  deity.  His  entire  character  is  such  as 
does  not  belong  to  the  earliest  stage  of  the  Vedio  mythical  creations, 
but  points  to  a  second  shape  which  the  religious  consciousness  en- 
deavoured to  take,  without,  however,  being  able  actually  to  carry  it 
fully  into  effect.  The  entire  series  of  the  principal  divinities  of  the 
Veda  belongs  to  the  domain  of  natural  symbolism,  which  appears  here 
more  decided,  unmixed,  and  transparent  than  perhaps  among  any  other 
people  of  the  Indo-germanic  race,  but  which,  on  this  account,  is  also 
less  rich  in  references  to  other  departments  of  life,  and  has  not  been 
able  to  get  beyond  a  certain  uniformity.  But  Brahmanaspati  is  one  of 
the  divine  beings  who  do  not  stand  immediately  within  the  circle  of 
physical  life,  but  form  the  transition  from  it  to  the  moral  life  of  the 
human  spirit.  In  him,  the  lord  or  protector  of  prayer,  is  seen  the 
power  and  dignity  of  devotion,  the  energetic  action  of  the  will  upon 
the  gods  who  are  the  personifications  of  natural  objects,  and  im- 
mediately upon  nature.  And  it  may  still  be  plainly  perceived  in 
what  manner  this  god,  as  a  new-comer,  was  introduced  into  the  circle 
of  mythological  beings  already  established,  and  could  only  find  a  place 
by  the  side  of  the  other  gods,  or  by  supplanting  them.*"* 

"  Indra  is  the  highest  god  of  the  Vedic  faith,  or,  at  least,  the  one 
whose  action  has  the  most  immediate  hearing  on  the  welfare  of  men. 
He  is  the  god  of  the  friendly  noon-day  firmament,  which,  after  all 
obscurations,  again  shines  anew,  on  which  the  fertility  of  the  earth 
and  the  tranquility  and  enjoyment  of  human  existence  depend.  And 
the  prayer  which  most  frequently  recurs  in  the  Veda,  and  is  addressed 
to  Indra,  is  that  he  will  counteract  the  attempts  of  the  cloud-demon 
who  threatens  to  carry  away  the  fertilizing  waters  of  the  sky,  or  holds 
them  shut  up  in  the  caverns  of  the  mountains,  will  pour  forth  those 
waters,  fertilize  the  earth,  and  bestow  nourishment  on  men  and  cattle. 
Now,  if  the  essence  of  the  god  Brahmanaspati  really  expresses,  as  the 
name  imports,  the  victorious  power  of  prayer,  then  we  should  find  him 
in  this  circle  of  myths,  more  than  in  any  other.     And  in  point  of  fact 

404  iij^ii  jjjg  gg^  -whose  names  are  compounded  with  pati  ('lord  of — )  must  be 
reckoned  among  the  more  recent,  e.g.  Vachaspati,  Vastoshpati,  Kshetrasya  pati.  They 
were  the  products  of  reflection. 

18 


274     TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AKD  BRAHMAN ASPATI. 

he  does  appear  along  with  Indra  in  that  conflict  of  his  against  the 
fiend,  and  that  too  in  such  a  way  that  a  department  of  labour  is 
assigned  to  him,  which,  in  most  of  the  other  hymns,  is  appropriated 
exclusively  to  Indra.  And,  finally,  in  some  few  passages,  it  is  he 
who,  all  alone,  breaks  through  the  caverns  of  Bala,  in  order  to  bring 
to  light  the  concealed  treasures  of  the  fertilizing  water,  or,  according 
to  the  figurative  language  employed,  the  cows  with  abundant  milk  " 
(pp.  71  ff.). 

After  quoting  E.V.  ii.  24,  3  f .  (which  will  be  cited  below)  Professor 
E.oth  proceeds:  "It  is  therefore  brahma,  prayer,  with  which  the  god 
breaks  open  the  hiding  place  of  the  enemy.  Prayer  pierces  through  to 
the  object  of  its  desire,  and  attains  it.  And  if  now  we  should  seek 
to  discover,  in  the  natural  phenomenon  to  which  reference  is  made, 
viz.,  in  the  storm,  that  force  which  so  mightily  breaks  through  the 
hostile  bulwarks,  it  is  the  lightning  alone  which  can  be  the  outward 
symbol  of  the  victorious  god.  Brahmanaspati  is,  therefore,  called  the 
'shining,'  the  'gold-coloured'  (v.  43,  12).  The  thunder  is  his  voice" 
(p.  74).  Again  :  "  Brahmanaspati's  domain  extends  still  further  ;  it 
reaches  as  far  as  the  efficacy  of  invocation.  He  succours  also  in 
battle  (E.V.  vi.  73,  2)"  (p.  74).  "And,  finally,  a  widely  extended 
creative  power  is  ascribed  to  him  in  the  remarkable  verses  of  a  hymn  of 
the  tenth  mandala  (68,  8  S.)  attributed  to  Ayasya  of  the  race  of 
Angiras  "  (p.  75). 


(1)  Passages  in  which  Brihaspati  and  Brahmanaspati  are  celelrated. 

I  subjoin  one  entire  hymn  and  portions  of  some  others,  which  will 
illustrate  the  characteristics  ascribed  to  Brahmanaspati  in  the  Eig- 
Teda,  and  will  shew  how  that  name  alternates  with  Brihaspati  in 
different  verses  of  the  same  composition. 

E.V.  ii.  23, 1.  Gananam  tvd  ganapatim  havamahe  liomim  ha/einam  upama- 
Sravastamam  |  jyeshtha/rajam  hrahmanam  Brahmanaspate  a  nah  srinvann 
utaye  sida  sadanam  |  2.  Devas  chit  te  asurya  prachetaso  Brihaspate  ycyni- 
yam  hhagam  anasuh  \  uirah  iva  suryo  jyotisha  maho  vihesham  if  Janitd 
hrahmanam  asi  |  3.  A  vibadht/a parirapas  tamamsi  eha  jyotishmantam  ra- 
tham  ritasya  tishthasi  \Brihaspate  hhimam  amitradambhanamrahshohana'm 


TEXTS  EELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMANASPATI.     275 

gotrdbhidarh  svarvidam  \  4.  Sunitihhir  nayasi  trayase  janam  yas  tulh- 
yam  daSdd  na  tarn  amho  ainmat  |  hrahmadvishas  tapano  manyumir  asi 
Brihmpate  mahi  tat  te  maMtvanam  \  5.  Na  tarn  amho  na  duritam 
kutaichana  naratayas  titirur  na  doaydvinah  \  vihah  id  asmad  dhvaraso 
vi  badhase  yam  sugopah  rahshasi  Brahmanaspate  \  6.  Tiiam  no  gopdh 
pathikrid  mohahshanas  tava  vrataya  matihhir  jaramahe  \  Brihaspate  yo 
no  abki  hvaro  dadhe  sva  tarn  marmartu  duchhuna  harasvati  \  7.  Zfta  va 
yo  no  marehayad  anagaso  ardtiva  martah  sanuko  vrikah  |  Brihaspate 
apa  taih  vartaya  pathah  sugam  no  asyai  devavitaye  Icridhi  \  8.  Trataram 
tvd  tanunam  havdmahe  avaspartar  adhivalctdram  asmayum  \  Brihaspate 
devanido  ni  harhaya  md  durevdh  uttaram  sumnam  un  nasan  \  9 
(=Mr.  iii.  11).  Tvayd  vayam,  suvridhd  Brahmanaspate  spdrhd  vasu 
manushyd  a  dadimahi  \  yah  no  dure  talito  yah  ardtayo  abhi  santi  jam- 
Ihaya  idh  anapnasah  \  10.  Tvayd  vayam  uttamam  dhimahi  vayo  Brihas- 
pate paprind  sasnind  yujd  \  md  no  duMamso  abhidipaur  i^ata  pra  suiam- 
sdh  matibhis  tdrisMmahi  \  1\.  Andnudo  vrishabho  jagmir  dhavaih  nish- 
taptd  satrum  pritandsu  sdsahih  |  asi  satyah  rinaydh  Brahmanaspate 
ugrasya  chid  damitd  viluharshinah  \  12.  Adevena  manasd  yo  rishyanyati 
idsdm  ugro  manyamdno  jighdmsati  \  Brihaspate  md  pranak  tasya  no 
vadho  ni  harma  manyum  durevasya  kardhatah  \  13.  Bhareshu  havyo 
namasopasadyo  gantd  vdjeshu  sanitd  dhanam  dhanam  \  visvdh  id  aryo 
abhidipsvo  mridho  Brihaspatir  vi  vavarha  rathdn  iva  \  14.  Tejishthayd 
tapani  rakshasas  tapa  ye  tvd  nide  dadhire  drishtaviryam  \  dvis  tat  Icrishva 
yad  asat  te  ukthyam  Brihaspate  vi  parirapo  ardaya  \  15.  Brihaspate  ati 
yad  aryo  arhdd  dyumad  vibhdti  kratumaj  janeshu  \  yad  didayat  iavasd 
ritaprajdta  tad  asmdsu  dravinam  dhehi  chitram  \  16.  Md  nah  stenebhyo 
ye  abhi  druhas  pade  nir amino  ripavo  'nneshujagridhiih  |  d  devandm  ohate 
vi  vrayo  hridi  Brihaspate  na  parah  sdmno  viduh  \  17.  Visvebhyo  hi  tvd 
ihmanebhyas  pari  Tvashtd  ^janat  sdmnah  sdmnah  kawih  \  sa  rinachid 
rinaydh  Brahmanaspatir  druho  hantd  mahah  ritasya  dhartari  \  18. 
Tava  sriye  vi  ajihlta  pa/rvato  gwvdfh,  gotram  udasrijo  yad  Angi/rah  \ 
Indrena  yujd  tamasd  parivritam  Brihaspate  nir  apdm  aubjo  arnavam  | 
19.  Brahmanaspate  tvam  asya  yantd  suktasya  bodhi  tanayam  cha  jinva  \ 
visvam  tad  bhadram  yad  a/vanti  devah  brihad  vadema  vidathe  suvirdh  \ 

Although  the  translation  which  I  subjoin  is  very  imperfect,  and  I 
am  uncertain  as  to  the  sense  of  many  words  and  phrases  occurring  in 
it,  the  general  sense  is  clear  and  undoubted  : 


276     TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMANASPAJI. 

"  We  invoke  thee,  Brahmanaspati,  the  commander  of  hosts,*""  the 
wise,  the  most  highly  renowned  of  sages,  the  monarjch  of  prayers  ; 
do  thoii  hear  us,  and  take  thy  place  on  our  hearth,  bringing  succour. 
2.  Even  the  gods  have,  o  divine  Brihaspati,  obtained  the  worshipful 
portion  of  thee,  who  art  wise :  as  the  great  sun  by  his  light  generates 
rays,  so  art  thou  the  generator  of  all  prayers,  3.  Overcoming  demons 
and  darkness,  thou  standest  upon  the  luminous,  awful,  foe-subduing, 
rakshas-slaying,  cow-pen-cleaving,  heaven-reaching,  chariot  of  the 
ceremonial.  4.  By  thy  wise  guidance  thou  leadest  and  preservest 
men ;  no  calamity  can  befal  him  who  offers  gifts  to  thee ;  thou  vexest, 
and  overcomest  the  wrath  of,  the  enemy  of  devotion ;  this,  o  Brihas- 
pati, constitutes  thy  greatness.  5.  No  calamity  or  misfortune  from 
any  quarter,  neither  foes  nor  deceivers,  can  overwhelm  the  man — 
(thou  repellest  from  him  aU  evU  spirits) — whom  thou,  a  sure  protector, 
dost  guard,  o  Brahmanaspati.  6.  Thou  art  the  wise  guardian  who  opens 
for  us  a  way ;  with  hymns  we  pay  homage  to  thy  sovereign  power. 
Brihaspati,  may  his  own  hot  ill  luck  destroy  the  man  who  devises  evil 
against  us.  7.  Whatever  hostile  mortal,  powerful*"*  and  rapacious, 
assails  us  who  are  innocent,  do  thou,  Brihaspati,  turn  him  away  from 
our  path,  and  enable  us  easily  to  reach  the  feast  of  the  gods,  8.  We 
invoke  thee,  o  deliverer,  who  art  the  protector  of  our  bodies,  and  our 
partial  patron ;  destroy,  o  Brihaspati,  the  revilers  of  the  gods ;  let  not 
the  wicked  attain  high  prosperity.  9.  May  we  through  thee,  our 
prosperer,  o  Brahmanaspati,  acquire  enviable  riches  profitable  for  men. 
Crush  the  foes,  whether  far  or  near,  who  assail  us  [and  make  them] 
destitute.  10.  Through  thee,  o  Brihaspati,  a  liberal  and  generous 
&iend,  may  we  obtain  the  highest  vigour.  Let  not  our  malicious 
enemy  gain  the  mastery  over  us  ;  may  we  who  are  friendly  in  our 
intentions  overcome  them  by  our  hymns.  11.  Stubborn,  strong,  he 
enters  into  the  battle,  he  vexes  the  foe,  he  overpowers  him  in  conflict. 
Thou,  Brahmanaspati,  art  a  real  avenger  of  guilt,  a  subduer  even  of 
the  fierce  and  vehemently  passionate  man.  12.  Let  us  not  be  struck 
by  the  shaft  of  the  man  who,  with  ungodly  mind,  seeks  to  injure  us, 
who,  esteeming  himself  fierce,  seeks  to  slay  (any  of  thy)  worshippers  ; 

IDS  Compare  the  epithet  aanagana  in  v.  61,  12. 
408  Sanuka  =  samuchhrita,  according  to  Sayana. 


TEXTS  EELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMANASPATI.     277 

we  repel  the  rage  of  the  presumptuous  and  malicious  man.  13. 
Brihaspati,  who  is  to  be  invoked  in  battles,  to  be  worshipped  with 
reverence,  who  frequents  conflicts,  who  bestows  all  our  wealth,  has 
overturned  like  chariots  all  the  malicious  enemies  who  seek  to  wrong 
us.  14.  Consume  with  thy  sharpest  burning  bolt  the  rakshases  who  have 
mocked  at  thee,  whose  prowess  is  well  proved  ;  manifest  that  power  of 
thine  which  shall  be  deserving  of  praise;  destroy  the  demons.  15. 
Brihaspati,  whose  essence  is  sacred  truth,  bestow  upon  us  that  brilliant 
wealth  which  shall  excel  that  of  our  foe,  which  appears  brilliant,  and 
possesses  strength,  which  shines  with  power.  16.  Do  not  (abandon) 
us  to  the  robbers  who  hold  the  position  of  our  assailants,  persistent 
enemies,  who  greedily  desire  our  food ;  —  such  a  man  in  his  heart 
contemplates  the  abandonment  of  the  gods ;  —  they  do  not,  o  Bri- 
haspati, know  the  excellence  of  the  saman.  17.  For  Tvashtri,  who 
knows  all  saman-verses,  has  generated  thee  to  be  above  all  beings. 
Brahmanaspati  is  the  avenger  and  punisher  of  guilt,  the  slayer  of  the 
injurious  man  in  the  interest  of  the  upholder  of  the  great  ceremonial. 
18.  "When  thou,  Angiras,  didst  open  up  the  cow-pen,  the  mountain 
yielded  to  thy  glory ;  with  Indra  as  thine  ally,  thou,  Brihaspati,  didst 
let  loose  the  stream  of  the  waters,  which  had  been  covered  with  dark- 
ness. 19.  Brahmanaspati,  thou  art  its  controller;  take  notice  of  our 
hymn  and  prosper  our  oifspring ;  all  that  the  gods  protect  is  successful. 
May  we,  blest  with  strong  men,  speak  with  power  at  the  festival." 

E.V.  ii.  24,  1.  Semam  middhi  prahhritim  yah  tsishe  aya  vidhema 
navaya  maha  gird  \  yathd  no  tmdkvan  stavate  salcha  tava  Brihaspate 
sishadhah  sola  no  matim  \  2.  Yo  nantvani  anamad  ni  ojasa  utadardar 
manyuna  sambardni  vi  \  prachyavayad  achyuta  Brahmanaspatir  a  cha- 
visad  vammantam  vi  parvatam  \  3.  Tad  devdnam  devatamdya  kartvam 
aSraihran  drilhd  avradanta  vilitd  |  ud  gdh  djad  abhinad  hrahmand  valam 
aguhat  tamo  vi  achak&hayat  svah  \  4(=  Mr.  x.  13).  Asmusyam  avatam 
Brahmanaspatir  madhudharam  abhi  yam  ojasd  Hrinat  \  tarn  eva  vihe 
papire  svardrih  hahu  sdkam  sisichwr  utsam  udrinam  |  ....  8.  Ritajyena 
hhiprena  Brahmanaspatir  yatra  vashti  pra  tad  asnoti  dhanvand  |  tasya 
sddhvir  ishavo  ydhhir  asyati  nriehakshaso  drisaye  karnayonayah  \ 

1.  "Do  thou  who  rulest  receive  this  our  offering  [of  praise] ;  let  us 
worship  thee  with  this  new  and  grand  song ;  as  thy  bountiful  friend 
among  us  celebrates  thee,  do  thou  also,  Brihaspati,  fulfil  our  desire.    2. 


278     TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AND  BEAHMANASPATI. 

Brahmanaspati,  who  by  Ms  power  brought  low  the  things  which  should 
be  overthrown,  and  by  his  wrath  split  open  the  clouds,  has  also  cast 
down  the  things  which  were  unshaken,  he  has  penetrated  the  mountain 
which  was  full  of  riches.  3.  This  was  an  exploit  fit  for  the  most 
godlike  of  the  gods  to  achieve ;  firm  things  were  loosened,  and  strong 
things  yielded  to  him  ;  he  drove  forth  the  cows,  by  prayer  he  split 
Vala,  he  chased  away  the  darkness,  and  revealed  the  sky.*"  4.  Ail 
the  celestials  drank  of  the  stone-covered  fountain,  yielding  a  sweet 
stream,  which  Brahmanaspati  split  open ;  they  poured  out  together  an 

abundant  supply  of  water 8.  Wherever  Brahmanaspati  desires, 

thither  he  reaches  with  his  well-stringed,  swift-darting  bow.  Excel- 
lent are  his  arrows  wherewith  he  shoots  ;  they  are  keen-eyed  to  behold 
men,  and  drawn  back  to  the  eg,r." 

iv.  50,  1.  Yas  tasiambha  sahasa  vi  j'mo  antan  Brihaspatis  trishadadho 
ravena  \  tarn  pratnasah.  rishayo  didhyan&h  puro  viprah  dadhire  mandra- 
jihvam  \  4.  Brihaspatih  prathamam  jayamano  maho  jyotishah  parame 
vyoman  \  saptasyas  tuvijato  ravena  vi  mptarakmir  adhamat  tamamsi  | 
5.  Sa  sushtulha  sa  rilcvata  ganma  Valam  ruroja  phaligam  ravena  |  £ri- 
haspatir  usriyah  havyasudah  kanilcradad  vavasatir  udajat  \  6.  Eva  pitre 
visvadevaya  vrishne  yajnair  vidhema  namasa  havirlhih  \  Brihaspate  su- 
praj'ah  viravanto  vayam  sydma  patayo  rayinam  \  7.  Sa  id  raja  pratijan- 
ydni  visva  Sushmena  tasthav  abhi  vlryena  \  Brihaspatim  yah  subhritam 
bibharti  valguyati  vandate  purvabhdjam  \ 

"  1.  Contemplating  Brihaspati  with  the  pleasant  tongue,  who  occu- 
pies three  abodes,  and  by  his  power  and  his  voice  holds  apart  the  ends 

of  the  earth,  the  ancient  rishis  placed  him  in  their  front 4.*°' 

Brihaspati,  when  first  born  from  the  great  light  in  the  highest  heaven, 
seven-faced,  mighty  in  nature,  seven-rayed,  blew  asunder  the  darkness 
with  his  voice.  5.  "With  the  lauding,  hymning  band  he  by  his  voice 
broke  through  Vala,  the  cloud.  Brihaspati,  shouting,  drove  forth  the 
butter-yielding,  loudly-lowing  cows.  6.  Thus  let  us  worship  the  vigorous 
father,  who  is  possessed  of  all  divine  attributes,  with  sacrifices,  and 
reverence,  and  oblations.  May  we,  Brihaspati,  have  abundant  off- 
spring, vigorous  sons,  and  be  lords  of  riches.    7.  That  king  who  main- 

ii"  This  and  the  following  verse  are  translated  in  p.  73  of  the  article  of  Professor 
Both,  quoted  at  the  commencement  of  this  section. 

408  Verses  4  ff.  are  translated  by  Professor  Roth  in  pp.  79  f.  of  the  article  quoted 
at  the  beginning  of  this  section. 


TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMANASPATI.     279 

tains  Brihaspati  in  abundance,  wlio  praises  and  magnifies  him  as  (a 
deity)  entitled  to  tte  first  distinction,  overcomes  all  hostile  powers  by 
his  force  and  valour." 

X.  68,  6.  Yada  Valasya  piyato  jasum  Ihed  Brihaspatir  agnitapobhir 
arhaih  \   dadhhir  na  jihvd  parivishfam  adad  avir  nidhm  ahrinod  usri- 

yanafh,  \  7 dndeva  hhiitvd  iahunasya  garhham  ud  mriyah  parva- 

tasya  tmand  "j'at  |  8  (=  Nir.  x.  12).  Asnapinaddham  madhupary  apas- 
yad  matsyam  na  dine  udani  hshiyantam  \  nish  taj  jabhdra  chamasam  no, 
vrihshdd  Brihaspatir  viravena  vikritya  \  9.  Soshdm  avindat  sah  svah  so 
Agnim  so  a/rhena  vi  balddhe  tamamsi  \  Brihaspatir  govapusJw  Valasya 
nir  majjdnam  na  parvano  jabhdra  | 

"  When  Brihaspati  clove  with  fiery  gleams  the  defences  of  the  ma- 
lignant Vala,  as  the  tongue  devours  that  which  has  been  enveloped  by 
the  teeth,  he  revealed  the  treasures  of  the  cows.  7.  ...  As  if  splitting 
open  eggs,  the  productions  of  a  bird,  he  by  his  own  power  drove  out 
the  cows  from  the  mountain.  8.  He  beheld  the  sweet  liquid  en- 
veloped by  rock,  like  a  fish  swimming  in  shallow  water ;  Brihaspati 
brought  it  out,  like  a  spoon  from  a  tree,  having  cloven  (Vala)  with  his 
shout.  9.  He  discovered  the  Dawn,  the  Sky,  Agni ;  with  his  gleam 
he  chased  away  the  darkness ;  Brihaspati  smote  forth,  as  it  were,  the 
marrow  from  the  joints  of  Vala,  who  had  assumed  the  form  of  a  bull." 

i.  40,  5.  Tra  nunam  Brahmanaspatir  mantram  uadati  uMhyam  \  yas- 
minn  Indro  Faruno  Mitro  Aryamd  devdh  olcamsi  chahrire  \  6.  Tarn  id 
vochema  vidatheshu  sambhuvam  mantram  devah  anehasam  |  "5.  Brah- 
manaspati  now  utters  a  laudatory  hymn,  in  which  Indra,  Varuna, 
Mitra,  the  gods,  have  taken  up  their  abode.  6.  This  spotless  hymn, 
bringing  good  fortune,  may  we,  o  gods,  utter  on  the  festivals."  *™ 

i.  190,  1.  Anarvdnam  vrishahham  mandrajihvam  Brihaspatim  vardhaya 
navyam  arhaih  \  gdthdnyah  swrueho  yasya  devdh  dsrinvanti  navamdnasya 
martdh  |  2.  Tarn  ritviydh  upa  vdehah  sachante  sargo  yo  na  devayatdm 
asarji  \  "1.  Magnify  Brihaspati,  the  irresistible,  the  vigorous,  the 
pleasant-tongued,  who  ought  to  be  praised  with  hymns,  a  shining 
leader  of  songs  to  whom  both  gods  and  men  listen  when  he  utters 

*"'  In  the  dissertation  quoted  above,  p.  74,  Professor  Eoth  remarks  on  these 
verses :  "  The  thunder  is  his  (Brahmanaspati's)  voice.  This  voice  of  thunder,  again, 
as  the  voice  of  the  superintendent  of  prayer,  is  hy  a  beautiful  transference  brought 
into  connection  with  the  prayer  which,  spoken  on  earth,  finds,  as  it  were,  its  echo 
in  the  heights  of  heaven." 


280       ATTRIBUTES  OF  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAnMANASPATI. 

praise.  2.  To  him  proceed  -well-ordered  words,  like  a  stream  of 
devout  men  which  has  been  set  in  motioii." 

V.  43,  12.  A  vedhasam  mlaprishtham  irihantam  Brihaspatim  sadane 
sadayadlivam  \  sddadyonim  dame  a  didivamsam  Mranyavarnam  arusham 
sapema  \  "  Seat  on  the  sacrificial  ground  the  wise,  the  dark-backed, 
the  mighty  Brihaspati.  Let  us  reverence  the  golden-hued  ruddy  god 
who  sits  on  our  hearth,  who  shines  in  our  house." 

z.  98,  7.  Devahutam  vrishtivanim  rardno  Brihaspatir  vacham  asmai 
ayachhqi  \  "  Brihaspati,  fulfilling  (his  desire),  gave  him  (Devapi)  a 
hymn  seeking  for  rain,  which  the  gods  heard." 

(2)  Parentage  and  attributes  of  the  god. 

Brahmanaspati,  or  Brihaspati,  appears  to  be  described  in  vii.  97,  8, 
as  the  ofispring  of  the  two  "Worlds,  who  magnified  him  by  their  power 
{devi  devasya  rodasi  janitri  Brihaspatim  vavridhatv/r  mahitva) ;  whilst 
in  ii.  23, 17,  he  is  said  to  have  been  generated  by  Tvashtri  (see  above). 
He  is  called  a  priest,  x.  141,  3  {hrahmanaih  aha  Brihaspatim') ;  is 
associated  with  the  Eikvans,  or  singers  (vii.  10,  4 ;  x.  14,  3  ;  compare 
X.  36,  5 ;  X.  64,  4) ;  is  denominated  an  Angirasa  (iv.  40,  1 ;  vi.  73,  1 ; 
X.  47,  6) ;  is  the  generator,  the  utterer,  the  lord,  the  inspirer,  of  prayer 
(ii.  23,  1,2;  i.  40,  5  ;  x.  98,  7),  who  by  prayer  accomplishes  his  de- 
signs (ii.  24,  3),  and  mounting  the  shining  and  awful  chariot  of  the 
ceremonial,  proceeds  to  conquer  the  enemies  of  prayer  and  of  the  gods 
(ii.  23,  3f.,  8).  He  is  the  guide,  patron,  and  protector  of  the  pious, 
who  are  saved  by  him  from  all  dangers  and  calamities  (ibid,  verses 
4  ff.) ;  and  are  blessed  by  him  with  wealth  and  prosperity  (ibid.  9  £). 
He  is  styled  the  father  of  the  gods,  ii.  26,  3  {devdnam  pitaram) ;  is 
said  to  have  blown  forth  the  births  of  the  gods  like  a  blacksmith  (see 
above,  p.  48) ;  to  be  possessed  of  all  divine  attributes,  visvadevya,  or 
viivadeva  (iii.  62,  4;  iv.  50,  6);  bright,  hehi  (iii.  62,  5;  vii.  97,  7); 
pure,  iundhyu  (vii.  97,  7) ;  omniform,  iiisvarupa  (Iii.  62,  6) ;  possessed 
of  all  desirable  things,  viiva/vdra  (vii.  10,  4;  vii.  97,  4);  to  have  a 
hundred  wings,  satapatra  (vii.  97,  7) ;  to  carry  a  golden  spear,  hiran- 
yavdil  (ibid. ;  compare  ii.  24,  8,  where  a  bow  and  arrows  are  assigned 
to  him) ;  to  be  a  devourer  of  enemies,  vritrakhdda  (x.  65,  10 ;  comp. 
vi.  73,  3)  ;  a  leader  of  armies  along  with  Indra,  etc.,  Indrah  dsdm 


ARE  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMAIJASPATI  NAMES  OP  AGNI?     281 

neta  Brihaspatir  JDaksMna  (x.  103,  8),  and  armed  with  an  iron  axe, 
wtich  Tvashtri  sharpens,  Uilte  nunam  paraSuJh  svayasam  yena  vrischad 
etaso  Brahmanaspatih  (x.  53,  9) ;  clear-voiced,  suchikranda  (vii.  97,  5)  > 
a  prolonger  of  life,  pratarlia  'si  ayushah  (x.  100,  5);  a  remover  of 
disease,  amivaha  (i.  18,  2)  ;  opulent,  revat,  vasuvit ;  an  increaser  of 
the  means  of  subsistence,  pushtivardhana  (i.  18,  2).  Plants  are  said 
to  spring  from  him,  yah  oshadMh  ....  Brihaspatiprasutah  (x.  97,  15, 
19).  He  is  said  in  one  place  to  he  conveyed  by  easy-going  ruddy  horses, 
tarn  sagmaso  arushdso  asvah  Brihaspatim  sahavdho  vahanti  (vii.  97,  6). 

In  one  place  he  is  said  to  have  heard  the  cries  of  Trita,  who  had 
been  thrown  into  a  well  and  was  calling  on  the  gods,  and  to  have 
rescued  him  from  his  perilous  position,  i.  105,  17  {Triiah  kupe  avahito 
devan  havate  utaye  \  tat  iu^rdva  Brihaspatih  hrinvann  amhuranad  uru). 

His  exploits  in  the  way  of  destroying  Yala,  and  carrying  oif  the 
heavenly  kine,  or  releasing  the  imprisoned  waters  of  the  sky,  have 
been  sufBciently  explained,  in  the  quotation  I  have  made  above  from 
Professor  Eoth's  Essay,  as  well  as  in  the  texts  which  have  been  trans- 
lated. He  is  further,  as  we  have  seen,  described  as  holding  asunder 
the  ends  of  the  earth  (iv.  50,  1). 

(3)  Whether  Brihaspati  and  Brahmanaspati  are  identifiable  with  Agni. 

Brahmanaspati  and  Brihaspati  are  regarded  as  names  of  Agni  by 
M.  Langlois,  in  his  translation  of  the  Eig-veda,  vol.  i.  p.  249  (note  36), 
p.  254  (note  83),  p.  578  (note  1),  and  index,  vol.  iv.,  under  the 
words.^'°  Professor  Wilson. also,  in  the  introduction  to  the  1st  vol. 
of  his  translation,  p.  xxxvii.,  writes  as  follows:  "Brahmanaspati, 
also,  as  far  as  we  can  make  out  his  character  from  the  occasional 
stanzas  addressed  to  him,  seems  to  be  identifiable  with  Agni,  with  the 
additional  attribute  of  presiding  over  prayer.  The  characteristic  pro- 
perties of  this  divinity,  however,  are  not  very  distinctly  developed  in 
this  portion  of  the  Yeda  "  (see  also  the  notes  in  pp.  41,  111,  112). 
In  the  introduction  to  his  second  volume,  p.  ix.  however,  Professor 
"Wilson  says  that,  as  described  in  the  2nd  ashtaka  of  the  E.V.,  Brihas- 
pati, "when  treated  of  separately,  is  identical  with  Indra,  by  his 
attributes  of  sending  rain  (p.  199)  and  wielding  the  thunderbolt  (p. 

*'"  M.  Langlois  spells  Brihaspati,  Vrihaspati. 


282     ARE  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMANASPATI  NAMES  OF  AGNI P 

284) ;  but  he  is  hymned  indiscriminately  with  Brahmanaspati,  who  is 
styled  the  lord  of  the  Ganas,  or  companies  of  divinities,  and  also,  which 
is  in  harmony  with  his  former  character,  chief  or  most  excellent  lord 
of  mantras  or  prayers  of  the  Vedas  (p.  262) ;  he  also,  in  some  of  his 
attributes,  as  those  of  dividing  the  clouds,  and  sending  rain,  and  re- 
covering the  stolen  kine  (p.  268)  is  identical  with  Indra,  although  with 
some  inconsistency  he  is  spoken  of  as  distinct  from,  although  associated 
with,  him  (p.  270)  ;  but  this  may  be  a  misconception  of  the  scholiast, 
etc."  Finally,  Professor  MiiUer  (Transl.  of  R.V.  i.  77)  states  his  opinion 
that  "Brahmanaspati  and  Brihaspati  are  both  varieties  of  Agni,  the 
priest  and  purohita  of  gods  and  men,  and  as  such  he  is  invoked 
together  with  the  Maruts,  etc.,"  as  he  had  previously  remarked  that 
Agni  also  is.  The  verse  to  which  this  note  refers,  R.V.  i.  38,  13,  is 
as  follows :  achha  vada  tana  giro,  jarayai  Irahmamspatim  agnim  mitram 
na  darkatam,  which  Professor  MiiUer  renders  thus :  "  Speak  out  for 
ever  with  thy  voice  to  praise  the  lord  of  prayer,  Agni,  who  is  like  a 
friend,  the  bright  one." 

This  identification,  in  the  strict  sense,  of  Brahmanaspati  with  Agni 
is  supported  by  some  texts,  but  opposed  to  others.  Of  the  former 
class  are  the  following  : 

ii.  1,  3.  Tvam  Agne  Indro  mshabhah  satam  asi  tvarh  Vishnur  urugayo 
namasyah  \  tvam  hrahma  rayivid  Irahmanaspate  \  "  Thou,  Agni,  art 
Indra,  the  most  vigorous  of  the  good ;  thou  art  the  wide-striding  and 
adorable  Vishnu  ;  thou,  o  Brahmanaspati  (or  lord  of  prayer),  art  a 
priest  (hrahma),  the  possessor  of  wealth,  etc."  Here,  although  Agni  is 
also  identified  with  Indra  and  Vishnu,  as  he  is  with  other  deities  in 
the  following  verses,  the  connection  between  him  and  Brahmanaspati 
is  shown  to  be  more  intimate  and  real  by  the  fact  that  both  the  latter 
word  and  Agni  are  in  the  vocative.  In  the  next  passage  also  Brihas- 
pati, as  well  as  Matarisvan  may  be  regarded  as  an  epithet  of  Agni, 
iii.  26,  2.  Tarn  subhram  Agnim  avase  havdmahe  vaisvdnaram  mataris- 
mnam  vJcthyam  \  Brihaspatim  manusho  devatataye  vipram  hotaram 
atithim  raghushyadam  \  "  We  call  to  our  succour  the  bright  Agni,  the 
friend  of  all  mankind  ;  MatariiSvan,  who  is  worthy  to  be  hymned ; 
Brihaspati,  the  wise  invoker,  the  guest,  swiftly-moving,  that  he  may 
come  to  a  man's  worship  of  the  gods." 

The  verse  above  quoted,  v.  43,  12,  is  also  alternatively  explained  of 


AEE  BRIHASPATI  AND  BEAHMANASPATI  NAMES  OF  AGNI  ?     283 

Agni  by  Sayana  in  his  remarks  :  athtwd  iyam  Agneyi  \  Irihatah  pmri- 
vridhasya  harmanah  svaml  iti  Brihaspatir  Agnir  uchyate  \  tatha  nila- 
varna-dhuma  -prishthatva  -  sadana-sadana  -  Mranycwarmtvadi-  lingair  apy 
Agnir  eva  Brihaspatih  \  "  Or,  Agni  is  the  subject  of  the  verse.  By 
Brihaspati,  the  lord  of  the  grand  ceremonial,  Agni  is  denoted.  And, 
further,  it  is  also  shown  by  the  marks  of  having  a  back  of  dark- 
coloured  smoke,  of  being  placed  on  the  sacrificial  ground,  of  having  a 
golden  hue,  etc.,  that  Brihaspati  is  Agni."  And  in  ii.  2,  7,  Agni  is 
besought  to  make  Heaven  and  Earth  favourable  to  the  worshipper  by 
prayer,  Irahmana,  (prdcM  dydvaprithivi  hrahmand  kridhi).  Further, 
Agni  (see  above  pp.  199  f.),  as  well  as  Brahmanaspati  and  Brihaspati, 
is  called  a  priest,  and  both  are  designated  as  Angiras,  or  Angirasa. 

On  the  other  hand,  however,  Brahmanaspati  or  Brihaspati  is  else- 
where distinguished  from  Agni.  Thus  in  x.  68,  9,  Brihaspati  is  said 
to  have  found  out  Ushas,  the  heaven,  and  Agni,  and  by  a  hymn  to 
have  chased  away  the  darkness  {sah  ushdm  avindat  sah  svah  so  agnim 
so  arkena  vi  hahadhe  tamdihsi).  In  vii.  10,  4,  Agni  is  asked  to  bring 
Brihaspati  along  with  Indra,  Eudra,  Aditi,  etc.  In  the  following 
texts,  where  a  number  of  different  gods  are  invoked  or  named  together, 
Agni  is  mentioned  separately  from  Brahmanaspati  or  Brihaspati,  iii. 
20,  5  ;  iv.  40,  1  ;  v.  51,  12  f.  ;  vii.  41,  1  ;  vii.  44,  1  ;  ix.  5,  11  ; 
X.  35,  11  ;  X.  65,  1  ;  x.  130,  4;  x.  141,  3. 


284 


SECTIOI^r  XVIII. 

TAMA   AND   THE  DOCTRINE  OF  A  FUTURE  LIFE. 

(1)  References  to  immortality  in  the  earlier  booJcs  of  the  Rig-veda. 

It  is  in  the  ninth,  and  tenth  books  of  the  Rig-veda  that  we  find 
the  most  distinct  and  prominent  references  to  a  future  life.  It  is 
true  that  the  Bibhus,  on  account  of  their  artistic  skill,  are  said,  in 
some  texts  in  the  earlier  books,  to  have  been  promised,  and  to 
have  attained,  immortality  and  divine  honours  (see  above  p.  226, 
and  R.V.  iv.  35,  3,  where  it  is  said :  atha  aiia  Vajdh  amritasya 
pantharh  ganaih  devanam  Ribhavah  suhastah  \  "  Then,  skilful  Vajas, 
Ribhus,  ye  proceeded  on  the  road  of  immortality,  to  the  assemblage 
of  the  gods;"  and  verse  8  :  ye  devaso  aihavata  sukriiya  iyenah  iva 
id  adhi  divi  nisheda  \  te  ratnam  dhdta  iavaso  napdtah  Sandhanvanah 
aihavata  amritasah  |  "Te  who  through  your  skill  have  become  gods, 
and  like  falcons  are  seated  in  the  sky,  do  ye,  children  of  strength,  give 
us  riches;  ye,  o  sons  of  Sudhanvan,  have  become  immortal.").  This, 
however,  is  a  special  case  of  deification,  and  would  not  prove  that 
ordinary  mortals  were  considered  to  survive  after  the  termination  of 
their  earthly  existence.  There  are,  however,  a  few  other  passages 
which  must  be  understood  as  intimating  a  belief  in  a  future  state  of 
happiness.  Thus  Agni  is  said  in  i.  31,  7,  to  exalt  a  mortal  to  immor- 
tality {tvam  tarn  Agne  amritatve  uttame  martarh  dadhdsi) ;  and  to  be  the 
guardian  of  immortality  {aialdho  gopdh,  amritasya  raJcshitd).  And  the 
same  power  is  ascribed  to  Soma  in  i.  191,  I  :  tava  pramti  pitaro  nah 
Indo  deveshu  ratnam  abhajanta  dhiraJi  \  "By  thy  guidance,  o  Soma, 
our  sage  ancestors  have  obtained  riches  among  the  gods  ;  "  and  again, 
inverse  18  :  apydyamdno  amritdya  Soma  divi  iravdmsi  uttamdni  dhishva  \ 
"Soma,  becoming  abundant  to  (produce)  immortality,  place  (for  us) 
excellent  treasures  in  the  sky."*"     Some  other  passages  to  the  same 

"'  Professor  Benfey,  however,  translates  differently :  "  take  possession  of  the  highest 
renown  in  heaven." 


IMMOETALITY  IN  THE  EAELIEE  BOOKS  OF  THE  EIG-VEDA.     285 

eifect  are  the  following:  i.  125,  5.  Nahasya prishthe  adhi  tishthati  into 
yo  prindti  sa  ha  deveshu  gachhati  \  6.  DahsMnavatdm  id  imdni  ehitra 
dahshinavatam  divi  suryasal}  \  dalcshinavanto  amritam  Ihajante  dalcshina- 
vantah pratirante  ayuh^'^  \  "5.  The  liberal  man  abides  placed  upon  the 
summit  of  the  sty ;  he  goes  to  the  gods.  6.  These  brilliant  things  are 
the  portion  of  those  who  bestow  largesses ;  there  are  suns  for  them  in 
heaven  ;  they  attain  immortality  ;  they  prolong  their  lives,  i.  154,  5. 
Tad  asya  priyam  abhi  patho^"  asyam  naro  yatra  devayavo  madanti  \ 
v/rulcramasya  sa  hi  landhv/r  iithd  Vishnoh  pade  parame  madhvah  utaah  \ 
"  May  I  attain  to  that  his  (Vishnu's)  beloved  abode  where  men  devoted 
to  the  gods  rejoice ;  for  that  is  the  bond  of  the  wide-striding  god — a 
spring  of  honey  in  the  highest  sphere  of  Yishnu."  i.  179,  6.  ZTbhoM 
varum  rishir  wgrah  puposha  satyah  deveshu  asisho  j'agama  \  "  The 
glorious  rishi  practised  both  kinds  *" :  he  realised  his  aspirations  among 
the  gods."  In  v,  4,  10,  the  worshipper  prays  :  prajahhir  Agne  amrit- 
vam  aiydm  \  "  May  I,  Agni,  with  my  offspring,  attain  immortality."*"* 
In  V.  55,  4,  the  Maruts  are  besought  to  place  their  worshippers  in  the 
condition  of  immortality  {uto  asmdn  amritatve  dadhatana).  v.  63,  2 : 
vrishtim  vam  radho  amritatvam  imahe  \  "  We  ask  of  you  twain  (Mitra 
and  Varuna)  rain,  wealth,  immortality."  vii.  67,  6.  Baddta  no  amri- 
tasya  prajayai  \  which  Professor  Both,  s.v.  praja,  explains:   "add  us 

"'  The  same  idea  is  repeated  in  x.  107,  2  [uchha  divi  daksAinavanto  asthur  ye 
asvadah  mha  te  suryena  \  hiranyadah  amritatvam  bhajante  vasodah  soma  pra  tirante 
Syuh  I  "  The  givers  of  largesses  abide  high  in  the  sky ;  the  givers  of  horses  lire  Tfith 
the  sun;  the  givers  ofgold  enjoy  immortality;  the  givers  of  raiment  prolong  their  lives." 

413  The  same  word  which  is  here  employed,  pathas,  occurs  also  in  iii.  55,  10  : 
Vishnm' gopah paratnam  pati pnthah  priya  dhamani  amrita  dadhanah  \  "Vishnu,  a 
protector,  guards  the  highest  ahode,  occupying  the  beloved,  imperishable  regions." 
See  also  i.  162,  2 ;  x.  70,  9,  10.  .In  i.  163,  13,  the  horse  which  had  been  immo- 
lated  is  said  to  have  gone  to  the  highest  abode,  to  the  gods  [vpa  pra  gat  paramam 
sadasthmn  arvan  acha  pitaram  mataram  eha  \  adya  devan  Jushtatamo  hi  gamy  ah). 
In  ii.  23,  8,  mention  is  made  of  uttaram  mmnam  "the  highest  happiness,"  and  in 
ii.  25,  5,  of  the  "happiness  of  the  gods"  {devanam  sumne)  ;  but  it  does  not  appear 
whether  heaven  is  meant.  In  i.  159,  2,  Heaven  and  Earth  seem  to  be  declared  to 
provide  large  immortality  for  their  offspring  (uru  prajhyah  amritam). 

4'*  Sayana  eSplains   aihau  varnau  by    "pleasure   and  austerity"    kamam  aha 


*"*  See,  however,  Sayana's  gloss  and  "Wilson's  note,  in  loco,  where  the  immortality 
referred  to  is  explained  as  immortality  through  offspring,  and  as  consisting  in  an  un- 
broken succession  of  descendants,  the  immortality  of  a  mortal  {amritatvam  santaty- 
OAiiehheda-laleshwna/m  \  "prajam  emu  prajayate  tad  u  te  martya  amritam"  iti  hi 
srutih). 


286    EEFEEENCES  TO  THE  FATHEES  IN  THE  Eia-VEDA. 

to  (the  number  of)  the  people  of  eternity,  i.e.  to  the  blessed."  vii.  76, 
4.  Te  id  devanam  sadkamadah  dsann  ritavanal}  Icmayah  purvyasah  \ 
"They  were  the  companions  of  the  gods, — those  ancient  righteous 
sages."  viii.  58,  7.  Ud  yad  Iradhnasya  mshtapam  griham  Indras  eha 
ganvdhi  \  madhvah pltva  sachevahi  trih  sapta  sahhyuh pade  \  "When  we 
two,  Indra  and  I,  go  to  the  region  of  the  sun,  to  our  home,  may  we, 
drinking  nectar,  seek  thrice  seven  in  the  realm  of  the  friend."  Com- 
pare viii.  48,  3,  quoted  above  in  p.  90,  note :  "We  have  drunk  the 
Soma ;  we  have  become  immortal ;  we  have  entered  into  light ;  we 
have  known  the  gods." 

Vata  is  also  declared  to  have  a  store  of  immortality  in  his  house  {te 
grihe  amritasya  nidhir  MtaK).  But  this  verse  occurs  in  a  late  hymn 
(the  186th)  of  the  tenth  Mandala.  In  the  same  Book,  x.  95,  18,  the 
promise  is  made  by  the  gods  to  Pururayas,  the  son  of  Ila,  that  though 
he  was  a  mortal,  when  his  offspring  should  worship  them,  with  obla- 
tions, he  should  enjoy  happiness  in  Svarga,  heaven  {iti  tva  devdh,  ime 
ahw  Aila  yathem  etad  hhavasi  mrityubandhuh  \  praja  te  devdn  havishd 
yajdti  svarge  u  tvam  api  mddaydse). 

(2)  References  to  the  Fathers,  the  souls  of  departed  ancestors,  in  the 
earlier  looks  of  the  Rig-veda. 

The  following  passages  appear  to  refer  to  the  souls  of  deceased  an- 
cestors conceived  of  as  still  existing  in  another  world  : 

i.  36,  18.  Agnind  Turvasam  Yadum  paravatah  Ugradevam  havdmahe  \ 
"Through  Agni  we  call  Turvasa,  Tadu,  and  Ugradeva  from  afar." 
iii.  55,  2.  Mo  shu  no  atra  juhuranta  devdh  md  pilrve  Agne  pita/rah  pad- 
ajndh  I  "Let  not  the  gods  injure  us  here,  nor  our  early  Fathers  who 
know  the  realms."  vi.  52,  4.  Avantu  mam  Ushaso  jayamdndh  avantu 
md  sindhavah  pinvamdndh  \  cwantu  md  parvataso  dhrv/vdso  avantu  md 
pitaro  devahutau  \  "  May  the  rising  Dawn,  the  swelling  rivers,  the  firm 
mountains,  protect  me ;  may  the  Fathers  protect  me  in  my  invocation 
to  the  gods."  vi.  75,  10.  Brdhmandsah  pHa/ral},  somydsah  iive  no 
Dydvdprithivi  mehasd  \  Pushd  nah  pdtu  duritdd  ritdvridhah  \  "  May 
the  Brahmans,  Fathers,  drinkers  of  Soma,  may  Heaven  and  Earth  be 
propitious  to  us.  May  Piishan,  the  promoter  of  sacred  rites,  preserve 
us  from  calamity."     vii.  35,  12.  S'ain  nah  satyasya  patayo  Ihavantu 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  TAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS.  287 

iam  no  arvantah  sam  u  scmtu  gavah  \  sam  nah  Ribhwoah  euhritah  auhastah 
ia&  no  bhavantu  pitaro  haveshu  \  "  May  tlie  lords  of  truth  be  propitious 
to  us,  and  so  may  the  horses  aud  kine;  may  the  skilful  Fibhus, 
dexterous  of  hand,  may  the  Pathers,  be  propitious  to  us  in  our  invo- 
cations." viii.  48,  13.  Ibam  Soma  pitribhih  samviddno  anu  dyava- 
priihivi  a  tatantha  |  "  Thou,  Soma,  in  concert  with  the  Eathers,  hast 
extended  the  Heaven  and  Earth." 

I  may  also  introduce  here  a  few  detached  texts  on  the  same  subject 
from  the  ninth  and  tenth  books :  ix.  83,  3.  Mayavino  mamire  asya 
may  ay  a  nriehalcshasah  pitaro  garbham  adadhuh  (  "By  his  wondrous 
power,  the  skilful  have  formed,  the  Eathers,  beholders  of  men,  have 
deposited  the  germ."  x.  68,  11.  Abld  iyavam  na  Icriianebhir  aivam 
nakshatrehhih  pitaro  dyam  apimsan  \  "  The  Fathers  have  adorned  the 
sky  with  stars,  as  a  bay  horse  is  decorated  with  pearls  (?)."  x.  88,  15. 
Dve  sruti  asrinavam  pitrlnam  aham  devdndm  ufa  martydndm  |  "  I  have 
heard  of  two  paths  for  mortals,  that  of  the  Eathers,  and  that  of  the 
gods."""  X.  107,  1.  MaU  jyotih  pitribhir  dattam  dgdt  \  "The  great 
light  given  by  the  Eathers  has  arrived." 

In  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  and  in  the  Puranas,  the  Eathers 
(Pritris)  are  represented  as  being  a  distinct  order  of  beings  from  men, 
as  may  be  gathered  from  their  being  separately  created.  See  the  1st 
vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  23  f.,  37,  58,  79  f. 

(3)  Hymns  relating  to  Tama  and  the  Fathers. 

I  now  come  to  the  passages  in  the  ninth  and  tenth  books  to  which 
I  first  alluded :  and,  owing  to  the  great  interest  and  importance  of  the 
subjects  to  which  they  refer,  I  shall  first  quote  the  most  essential  parts 
of  them  at  length,  and  then  supply  a  summary  of  the  conclusions 
which  they  assert  or  involve, 

I  shall  begin  with  the  brief  account  of  Yama's  parentage  in  the 
seventeenth  hymn,  already  quoted  above,  p.  227,  and  the  dialogue 
betwixt  him  and  his  twin  sister  TamI,  in  the  tenth  hymn  of  the  tenth 
book. 

E.Y.  X.  17,  1.  "  Tvashtri  makes  a  marriage  for  his  daughter.  (Hear- 
ing) this,  this  whole  world  assembles.     The  mother  of  Tama,  becoming 

"6  See  the  Ist  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  434. 


288  HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHEES. 

wedded,  the  wife  of  the  great  Vivasvat,  disappeared.  2.  They  con- 
cealed the  immortal  (bride)  from  mortals.  Making  (another)  of  similar 
form,  gave  her  to  Vivasvat.  And  she  bore  the  Asvins  when  that  hap- 
pened.    Saranyu  abandoned  the  two  pairs  of  twins."  *" 

The  following  hymn  contains  a  dialogue  between  Tama  and  his  twin 
sister  Tami,  in  which,  according  to  Professor  Eoth,  she  is  to  be  con- 
sidered as  urging  a  matrimonial  union  between  them  for  the  continua- 
tion of  the  human  species,  of  which,  in  the  opinion  of  that  writer,  they 
appear  to  have  been  regarded  as  the  earliest  pair.*"  In  verse  4,  they 
are  declared  to  have  been  the  offspring  of  the  Gandharva  and  his  wife. 

E.V.  X.  10,  1.*'°  O  chit  sakhdyam  sakhya  vavrityam  tirah  puru  chid 
arnwoaih  jaganvan  \  pitur  napStmn  a  dadhita  vedhdh  adhi  kshami  prata- 
ram  dldhyanah  \  2.  iVfl  te  saJchd  sahhyam  vashti  etat  salahhma  yad 
vishurupa  bhavafi  |  mahas  puiraso  asurasya  vlrah  divo  dharttdrah  uniyd 
pari  khyan  \  3.  Usanti  gha  te  amritasah  etad  ehasya  chit  tyajasam  mart- 
yasya  |  ni  te  mano  manasi  dhdyi  asme  janyuh  patis  tanvam  d  mvisyah  | 
4.  Na  yat  pur  a  ehakrima  kad  ha  nunam  rita  iiadanto  anritam  rapema  \ 

*!'  After  this  section  was  first  written  I  received  Professor  Max  MiiUer's  second 
series  of  Lectures  on  the  Science  of  Language.  The  learned  and  ingenious  author 
there  discusses  at  length  the  meaning  of  the  myths  regarding  Vivasvat,  Saranyu,  and 
their  offspring  (pp.  481  ff.,  and  508  ff.).  He  understands  Vivasvat  to  represent  the 
sky,  Saranyu  the  dawn,  Yama  originally  the  day,  and  YamI,  his  twin  sister,  the 
night  (p.  509).  I  shall  briefly  refer,  as  I  proceed,  to  some  of  his  further  explana- 
tions, leaving  the  reader  to  consult  the  work  itself  for  fuller  information. 

*i8  See  Professor  Eoth's  remarks  on  Yama  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society,  iv.  426,  and  in  the  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  iii.  335  f. 
"They  are,"  he  says,  "as  their  names  denote,  twin  brother  and  sister,  and  are  the 
first  human  pair,  the  originators  of  the  race.  As  the  Hebrew  conception  closely 
connected  the  parents  of  mankind  by  making  the  woman  formed  from  a  portion 
of  the  body  of  the  man,  so  by  the  Indian  tradition  they  are  placed  in  the  relation- 
ship of  twins.  This  thought  is  laid  by  the  hymn  in  question  in  the  mouth  of  YamI 
herself,  when  she  is  made  to  say :  '  Even  in  the  womb  the  Creator  made  us  for 
man  and  wife.'  "  Professor  Miiller,  on  the  other  hand,  says  (Leot.,  2nd  ser.,  p.  610) : 
"  There  is  a  curious  dialogue  between  her  (YamT)  and  her  brother,  where  she  (the 
night)  implores  her  brother  (the  day)  to  make  her  his  wife,  and  where  he  declines 
her  ofi'er,  'because,'  as  he  says,  'they  have  called  it  a  sin  that  a  brother  should  marry 
his  sister.'  "  Again,  p.  621,  "  There  is  not  a  single  word  in  the  Veda  pointing  to 
Yama  and  Yami  as  the  first  couple  of  mortals,  as  the  Indian  Adam  and  Eve.  ...  If 
Yama  bad  been  the  first  created  of  men,  surely  the  Vedic  poets,  in  speaking  of  him, 
could  not  have  passed  this  over  in  silence."  See,  however,  the  passage  from  the 
A.V.  xviii.  3,  13,  to  be  quoted  farther  on. 

*"  This  hymn  is  repeated  in  the  A.V.  xviii.  1,  1  ff.  I  am  indebted  to  Professor 
Aufreoht  for  some  improvements  in  my  translation. 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS.  289 

Gandharvo  apsu  apya  cha  yosha  sa  no  nabhih  paramam  Jami  tan  nan  \  5. 
Q-arlihe  nu  nau  janita  dampati  Tear  devas  Tvashtd  savitd  visvarupah  \ 
nahir  asya  praminanti  vratani  veda  ndv  asya  prithivl  uta  dya/uh  j  6, 
Ko  asya  veda  prathamasya  ahiidh  Itah  tm  dadarSa  kaJj,  iha  pra  voehai  | 
brihan  Mitrasya  Varunasya  dhdma  had  u  bravah  dhano  vlchyd  nrin  \  7. 
Yamasya  md  Tamydm  kdmah  dgan  samdne  yonau  sahahyydya  \  jdyd 
iva  patye  tanvam  ririehydm.  vi  chid  vriheva  '•'"'  rathyd  iva  chakrd  \  8.  Na 
tishthanti  na  hi  mishanti  ete  devdndm  spa&al},  iha  ye  dha/ranti  \  (=Mr. 
V.  2)  anyena  mad  dhano  ydhi  tuyam  tena  vi  vriha  rathyd  iva  chakrd  \  9. 
Rdtribhir  asmai  ahahhir  daiasyet  Suryasya  ohakshur  muhwr  un  mimiydt  \ 
diva  prithivyd  mithund  ■sabandhu  Yamlr  Yamasya  bihhriydd  ajdmi  |  10, 
(=Nir.  iv.  20)  A  gha  td  gachann  uttard  yugdni  yatra  jdmayah  krin- 
avann  of  ami  \  upa  barlhrihi  vrishabhdya  hdhum  any  am  iehhasva  subhage 
patim  mat  \  11.  Kim  hhrdtd  asad  yad  andtham  hhavdti  kim  u  svasd  yon 
Nirritir  nigachhdt  \  kdma-mutd  bahu  etad  rapdmi  tanvd  me  tanvaih 
sam  piprigdhi  \  12.  Na  vai  u  te  tanvd  tanvam  sam  papriehydm  pdpam 
dhur  yah  svasdram  nigachhdt  |  anyena  mat  pramudah  kalpayasva  na  te 
hhrdtd  subhage  vashti  etat  |  13.  (=Mr.  vi.  28)  Bato  lata  asi  Yama 
naiva  te  mano  hridayam  eha  aviddma  |  anyd  kila  tvdm  kakshyd  iva 
yuktam  pari  shiajdte  libiy'eva  vriksham*'^  |  14.  (=Mr,  xi.  34)  Anyamu 
shu  team  Yami  anyah  u  tvdm  pari  shva^dta  libujeva  vriksham  \  tasya 
vd  tvam  manah  iehha  sa  vd  tava  adha  krinushva  samvidam,  subhadrdm  | 

[TamI  says]  "  0  that  I  might  attract  a  friend  to  friendly  acts.  May 
the  sage  (Tama  ?),  after  traversing  a  vast  ocean,  receive  a  grandson  to 
his  father,  and  look  far  forward  over  the  earth.*^^  2.  (Tama.)  Thy 
friend  does  not  desire  this  intimacy  that  (his)  kinswoman  should 
become  (as)  an  aKen.  The  heroes,  the  sons  of  the  great  Spirit,  the 
supporters  of  the  sky,  look  far  and  wide  around  (see  verse  8).  3. 
(TamI.)  The  immortals  desire  this  of  thee,  (they  desire)  a  descendant 
left  behind  by  the  one  sole  mortal.  Let  thy  soul  be  united  to 
mine.  As  a  husband,  penetrate  the  body  of  (thy)  wife.  4.  (Tama.) 
,  Shall  we  (do)  now  what  we  have  never  done  before  ?  Shall  we  who 
(have  been)  speakers  of  righteousness,  utter  unrighteousness  ?    The 

«o  Compare  A.V.  vi.  90,  1 ;  vi.  127,  3. 

«'  Compare  A.Y.  tI.  8,  1. 

4*2  Tiiig  Terse  occurs  with.  Tariations  in  the  Sama-veda,  i.  340.  The  sense  of  it,  as 
well  as  some  others,  is  obscure.  If  the  sage  (vedhas)  mean  Yama,  his  father  may  be 
Vivasvat,  or  the  Gandharva,  and  the  grandson  of  the  latter  may  be  the  son  whom  Yami 
was  desirous  to  bear  to  her  twin  brotiier  (Yama).    Compare  the  first  half  of  verse  3. 

19 


290  HYMNS  RELATING  TO  TAMA  AND  THE  EATHEES. 

Gandharva  in  the  (aerial)  -waters,  and  his  aqueous  wife  *^ — such  is  our 
source,  such  is  our  high  relationship.  5.  (Tarn!.)  The  divine  Tvashtri, 
the  creator,  the  vivifler,  the  shaper  of  all  forms,  made  as  hushand  and 
wife,  (while  we  were  yet)  in  the  womb.*'*  No  one  can  infringe  his 
ordinances.  Earth  and  heaven  know  this  of  us.  6.  (Yama.)  Who 
knows  this  first  day  ?  Who  has  seen  it  ?  Who  can  declare  it  ?  Vast 
is  the  realm  of  Mitra  and  Varuna.  What  wilt  thou,  o  wanton  woman, 
say  in  thy  thoughtlessness  (?)  to  men  ?  7.  (Tami.)  The  desire  of 
Tama  has  come  upon  me,  Tami,  to  lie  with  him  on  the  same  couch. 
Let  me,  as  a  wife,  bare  my  body  to  my  husband.  Let  us  whirl  round 
like  the  two  wheels  of  a  chariot.  8.  (Tama.)  These  spies  of  the  gods 
"who  range  throughout  this  world  stand  not  still,  neither  do  they  wink. 
Depart,  quickly,  wanton  woman,  with  some  other  man  than  me.  Whirl 
round  with  him  like  the  two  wheels  of  a  chariot.  9.  (Tami.)  Though 
she  should  wait  upon  him  by  night  and  by  day,  stiU  the  eye  of  the  sun 
would  open  again.  Both  in  heaven  and  earth  twins  are  closely  united. 
Let  Tami  treat  Tama  as  if  she  were  not  his  sister.  10.  (Tama.) 
Later  ages  shall  come  when  kinsmen  and  kinswomen  shall  do  what  is 
unbecoming  their  relation.  Spread  thy  arm  beneath  a  male.  Desire, 
0  fair  one,  another  husband  than  me.  11.  (Tami.)  How  can  a 
man  be  a  brother,  when  (a  woman)  is  left  without  a  helper  ? 
And  what  is  a  sister,  when  misery  (is  allowed  to)  come  upon  her? 
Overcome  by  desire,  I  am  thus  importunate.  Unite  thy  body  with 
mine.  12.  (Tama.)  I  wiU  not  unite  my  body  with  thine.  They  call 
hiTin  a  sinner  who  sexually  approaches  his  sister.  Seek  thy  gratifi- 
cation with  some  other  than  me.  Fair  one,  thy  brother  desires  not 
this.*"^     13.  (Tami.)*'''  Thou  art  weak,  alas,  o  Tama;  we  perceive  not 

*^^  Compare  Muller'a  Lectures,  2nd.  series,  p.  483.  He  takes  Gandhiarva  for 
Vivasvat,  and  lus  aqueous  wife  {Ap^a  Yosha)  for  Saranyu,  in  accordance  with  Sayana. 

*^  In  like  manner  Tvashtri  is  said,  A.V.  vi.  78,  3,  to  have  formed  a  husband  and 
■wife  for  each  other.     See  above,  p.  225  ;  also  viii.  72,  8. 

«5  The  Atharva-veda  (xviii.  1,  13,  14)  expands  this  verse  into  two :  na^te  nat/Mm 
Tami  atraham  asmi  na  te  tanum  tanva  sam  paprichyam  \  anyena  mat  pramuda^ 
Jealpayasva  na  te  ihrata  subhage  vashti  etat  \  14.  2fa  vai  u  te  tanum  tanva  sam 
paprieh^am  papam  ahm  yah  svasaraih  nigaehJmt  \  asamyad  etad  manaso  hrido  me 
ihrata  svasulf  a  ay  one  yat  iayiya  \  "I  am  not  in  this  thy  helper,  o  YamI ;  I  will  not 
unite  my  body  with  thine.  Seek  thy  gratification  with  some  other  than  me.  Fair 
one,  thy  brother  desires  not  this.  I  wiU  not  unite  my  body  with  thine.  They  call 
him  a  sinner  who  sexually  approaches  his  sister.  This  is  abhorrent  to  my  soul  and 
heart,  that  I,  a  brother,  should  lie  on  my  sister's  bed." 

<s!9  xhis  verse  is  quoted  and  explained  in  Nirukta,  vi.  28, 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS.  291 

any  soul  or  heart  in  thee.  Another  woman  shall  enlace  and  embrace 
thee  like  a  girdle,  or  as  a  creeping  plant  a  tree.  14.  (Tama.)  Thou 
shalt  embrace  another  man,  o  Tami,  and  another  man  thee,  as  a  creep- 
ing plant  a  tree.  Do  thou  desire  his  heart,  and  he  thine.  Make  then 
a  fortunate  aUiance."  *^' 

The  next  hymn  I  quote  is  addressed  to  Tama. 

R.V.  X.  14,  1  (=A.y.  xviii.  1,  49.  NLr.  x.  20).  Pa/ireyivamsam,  pra- 
vato  malnr  arm  lahubhyah  pantham  anupmpa&anam  \  Vaivasvatam  smiga- 
manam  jananam  Yamam,  rajanam  hwoisha  dimmya  \  [A.V.  xviii.  3,  13. 
Yo  mamara  prathamo  martyanarn  yah  preyaya  prathamo  lokam  etam  \ 
Vaivasvataik  sangamanam  jananam  Yamam  rajanam  havisM  sapar- 
yata]  *^  |  2.  Yamo  no  gatum,  prathamo  viveda  naisha  gavyutir  apabhd/r- 
ta/oai  u  \  yatra  nah  pUrve  pitarah  pa/reyur  end  jajnanah  pathydh  anu 
svdh  I  3.  Matall  Kavyaw  Yamo  Angirolhir  Brihaspatir  Rihvahhir 
'oamridhanah  \  Yarhk  eha  devah  vavridhur  ye  cha  devah  svahd  anye  sva- 
dhaya  anye  madanti  |  4.  Imam  Yama  prastaram  d  hi  slda  Angirohhih 
pitribhih  samviddnah  \  a  tvd  mantrah  Ica/oi-kastdh  vahantu  end  rdjan 
hmishd  mddayasva  |  5.  Angirohhir  dgahi  yajniyelhir  Yama  Yavrvpair 
iha  mddayasva  \  Vivasvantam  huve  yah  pita  te  asmin  yajne  harhishi  d 
nishadya  \  6.  Angiraso  nah  pitaro  Nanagvdh  Atha/rvdno  Ehriga/oah  som- 
ydaah  \  teshdm  vayam  sumatau  yajniydndm  api  hhadre  saumanase  sydma  \ 

7.  Prehi  prehi  pathibhih  purvyeihir  yatra  nah  purve  pitarah  pa/reyuh  \ 
ubhd  rdjdnd  svadhayd  madantd  Yamam  paiydsi  Varunafh  cha  devam  \ 

8.  Sangachhasva  pitrihhih  mm  Yamena  ishtdpurttena  pmame  vyoman  \ 
hitvdya  anadyam  punar  astam  ehi  sangachhasva  tarvod  sweaerchah  \  9. 
Apeta  vita  vi  cha  sarpatdto  asmai  etam  pitaro  lokam  akran  |  aholhir 
adbhir  aJctulhir  vyaktam  Yamo  daddti  avasdnam  asmai  \  10.  Ati  drava 
Sdrameyau  hdnau  ehaturahshau  sdbalau  sddhund  pathd  \  atha  pitrin 
suvidatrdn  ypehi  Yamena  ye  sadhamddam  madanti  \  11.  Yau  te  ivdnau 
Yama  rahshitdrau   chatwakshav,  pathirahshl  nrichalcshasau  \  tdlikydm 

*"  It  appears  from  Professor  Aufrecht's  Catalogue  of  the  Bodleian  Sanskrit  MSS. 
p.  82,  that  the  Narasinha  Purana,  i.  13,  contains  a  dialogue  between  Yama  and 
Yand ;  but  I  am  informed  by  Dr.  Hall,  who  has  looked  at  the  passage,  that  the 
conversation  does  not  appear  to  be  on  the  same  subject  as  that  in  the  hymn  before  us. 

*28  Compare  A.V.  tI.  28,  3  :  Yah  prathamah  prmatam  asasada  bahubhyah  pan- 
tham anwpaspaianah  \  yo  asya  lie  chipado  yaS  chatmhpadas  tasmai  Yamaya  namo 
astu  mritya/ne  \  "  Reverence  to  that  Yama,  to  Death,  who  first  reached  the  river, 
spying  out  a  path  for  many,  who  is  lord  of  these  two-footed  and  four-footed  creatures," 


292  HTMSrS  EELATING  TO  TAMA  AND  THE  EATHEES. 

mam  pari  dehi  rdjan  svasti  oka  asmai  anamwam  cha  dhehi  |  12.  Vrunaadv 
asufripd  udumhalau  Yamasyd  dutau  ohwrato  jandn  arm  \  tdv  asmahhyafn, 
driiaye  surydya  pmia/r  ddtdm  asum  adyeha  hhadram  \  13.  Yamdya 
somam  sunuta  Yamdya  j'uhuta  havih  |  Yamam  ha  yajno  gaehhati  agni- 
duto  aramkritah  \  14.  Yamdya  ghritcmad  hmir  juhota  pra  cha  Ushthata  \ 
sa  no  deveshu  a  yamad  dlrgham  dyuh  pra  jivase  |  15.  Yamdya  madhu- 
mattamam  rdjne  haoyam  juhotana  \  ida/ffi  namah  rishibhyah  purvajebhyah 
purvehhyah  pathikridhhyah  \ 

""Worship  with  an  oblation  Eang  Tama,  son  of  Vivasvat,  the  as- 
sembler of  men,  who  departed  to  the  mighty  streams,"'  and  spied  out 
the  road  for  many.  [Compare  Atharva-veda,  xviii.  3,  13  :  '  Kever- 
ence  ye  with  an  oblation  Tama,  the  son  of  Vivasvat,  the  assembler  of 
men,  who  was  the  first  of  men  that  died,  and  the  first  that  departed  to 
this  (celestial)  world.']  2.  Tama  was  the  first  who  found  for  us  the 
way.  This  home  is  not  to  be  taken  from  us.  Those  who  are  now 
born  (follow)  by  their  own  paths  to  the  placb  whither  our  ancient 
fathers  have  departed.  3.  Matali  magnified  by  the  Kavyas,  Tama  by 
the  Angirases,  and  Brihaspati  by  the  Rikvans — ^both  those  whom  the 
gods  magnified,  and  those  who  (magnified)  the  gods — of  these  some 
•  are  gladdened  by  Svaha,  and  others  by  Svadha.  4.  Place  thyself, 
Tama,  on  this  sacrificial  seat,  in  concert  with  the  Angirases  and 
Pathers.  Let  the  texts  recited  by  the  sages  bring  thee  hither.  Delight 
thyself,  0  king,  with  this  oblation.  4.  Come  with  the  adorable  An- 
girases ;  delight  thyself  here,  Tama,  with  the  children  of  Virupa.*™ 
Seated  on  the  grass  at  this  sacrifice,  I  invoke  Vivasvat,  who  is  thy 
father.     6.  (JSvc.  xi.  19.)  May  we  enjoy  the  good  will  and  gracious 


«»  This  is  the  rendering  of  the  words  pravatd  mahlr  tmu,  adopted  by  Eoth  in  his 
Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  138.  In  support  of  this  sense  of  mighty  (celestial) 
waters,  he  refers  to  E.V.  ix.  113,  8  (which  I  shall  quote  further  on),  and  to  Terse  9 
of  this  hymn.  In  his  article  on  the  story  of  Jemshtd,  in  the  Journal  of  the  German 
Oriental  Society,  iv.  426,  he  had  translated  the  words,  "  from  the  deep  to  the  heights ;" 
and  Dr.  Hang,  in  his  "  Essays  on  the  Sacred  Language,  etc.,  of  the  Parsees,"  p.  234, 
similarly  renders,  "  from  the  depths  to  the  heights."  In  the  Atharva-veda,  xviii.  4, 7, 
however,  where  the  same  words  occur,  tirthaia  taranti  pravato  mahir  iti  yajnakritah 
mlerito  yma  yamti  ("  They  cross  by  fords  the  great  rivers,  [by  the  road]  which  the 
virtuous  offerers  of  sacrifice  pass,")  they  seem  more  likely  to  mean  the  mighty  streams. 
Compare  Professor  Miiller's  Lectures,  ii.  515. 

MO  Virupa  is  mentioned  in  E.V.  i.  45,  3  ;  viii.  64,  6 ;  and  the  Virupas  in  iii.  63, 
6,  and  x.  62,  6  f.     See  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  246  and  note. 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS.  293 

benevolence  of  those  adorable  beings,  the  Angirases,  our  Fathers,  the 
Navagvas,  the  Atharvans,  the  Bhrigus,  offerers  of  soma.  7.  Depart 
thou,^''  depart  by  the  ancient  paths  (to  the  place)  -whither  our  early- 
fathers  have  departed.  (There)  shalt  thou  see  the  two  kings,  Yama  and 
the  god  Varuna,  exhilarated  by  the  oblation  {svadha),  (or,  exulting  in 
independent  power).  8.  Meet  -with  the  Fathers,  meet  with  Tama,^'* 
meet  -with  the  [recompense  of  J  the  sacrifices  thou  hast  offered*''  in 
the  highest  heaven.  Throwing  off  aU  imperfection  again  go  to  thy 
home.  "*      Become    united  to   a  body,   and     clothed   in  a  shining 

^'^  The  folio-wing  yerses  (as  appears  from  Professor  Miiller's  Essay  on  the  funeral 
rites  of  the  Brahmans,  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  for  1865,  p.  xi.)  are 
addressed  at  funerals  to  the  souls  of  the  departed,  -while  their  bodies  are  being  con- 
sumed on  the  funeral  pile. 

*'"  The  A.V.  xviii.  2,  21  is  as  follo-ws :  21.  Svayami  te  manasa  manah  iheman 
grihan  v^a  jujusJUxTiah  ehi  \  sam  gachhasva  pifribAih  sam  yamena  syonds  tvd  vatah 
tepa  vantu  sagmah  \  22.  Tft  tva  vahantu  Maruto  udmahah  udaprutah  \  ajena  Jerin- 
vantu  sJtam  varshenafes/umtu  ial  iti  \  23.  Xfd  ah/odm  aym  ayushe  kratve  daksAaya 
jtvaae  \  svdn  gachhatu  te  mano  adha  pitrm  upa  drtwa  |  "With  my  soul  I  call  thy 
soul ;  come  with  delight  to  these  abodes  ;  meet  -with  the  Fathers,  meet  -with  Yama ; 
may  delightful,  pleasant  breezes  blow  upon  thee.  22.  May  the  water-bringing, 
water-shedding  Maruts  bear  thee  upward,  and  creating  coolness  by  their  motion, 

sprinkle  thee  -with  rain.    23 May  thy  soul  go  to  its  own  (kindred),  and  hasten 

to  the  Fathers." 

433  The  phrase  is^Spurta  is  explained  by  Dr.  Haug  (Ait.  Br.  ii.  p.  474,  note). 
Ishta,  he  says,  means  "what  is  sacrificed,"  and  apurtta,  "filled up  to."  "For  all 
sacrifices  go  up  to  heaven,  and  are  stored  up  there  to  be  taken  possession  of  by  the 
sacrificer  on  his  arrival  in  heaven."  The  words  before  us  will  therefore  mean  "  rejoin 
thy  sacrifices  which  were  stored  up."  The  Athprva-yeda,  xviij.  2,  20,  expresses  the 
sentiment  here  referred  to  by  Dr.  Haug  in  these  words:  svadhah  yds  ehakrishe 
jlvams  tda  te  aantu  madhmchutali  \  "  May  the  oblations  which  thou  offeredst  while 
alive  (now)  drop  thee  honey."  And  in  A.V.  xi.  1,  36,  it  is  said :  etaih  sukritair 
anu  gachema  yajnam  ndke  tishthamtam  adhi  saptaradmau  |  "With  these  good  deeds 
may  we  foUow  the  sacrifice  which  abides  in  the  heaven  -with  seven  rays."  Compare 
A.V.  vi.  122,  4 :  yajnam  yantam  manasd  brihamtam  amidrohami  tapasd  sayonih  | 
i^a/iutdh  Agne  jaraaah  parastat  tritJye  nake  sadhamadkam  madema  \  "  With  my 
soul  I  ascend  after  the  great  sacrifice  as  it  goes,  dwelling  together  vrith  my  austere- 
fervour;  may  we,  Agni,  invited,  enjoy  a  festival  in  the  third  heaven  beyond  (the 
reach  of)  decay."  And  A.V.  vi.  123,  2 :  anvaganta  yajamdnah  svasti  ishtapurtam 
sma  krinutdvir  asmai  \  4.  Sa  paohami  sa  daddmi  sa  yaje  sa  dattdd  ma  yuaham  \  5. 
Viddhi  purtaaya  no  rdjm  aa  deva  aumand  ihava  \  2.  "  The  sacrificer  will  follow  in 
peace ;  show  him  what  he  has  ofl'ered.  4,  I  cook,  I  give,  I  offer  oblations ;  may  I 
not  be  separated  from  what  I  have  given,  fi,  0  king,  recognise  what  we  have  be- 
stowed ;  be  gracious."     Compare  A.V.  iii.  29,  1. 

«*  Mliller  (in  the  Essay  just  referred  to,  p.  xiv.)  translates  this  verse  thus :  "Leave 
evil  there,  then  return  home,  and  take  a  form,"  etc.  This  rendering  appears  to  make 
the  departed  return  to  this  world  to  resume  his  body,  though  in  a  glQrified  state. 


294  HYMNS  EELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS. 

form.«5  9.  Go  ye,  depart  ye,  hasten  ye  from  hence."'  The  Fathers 
have  made  for  him  this  place.  Yama  gives  him  an  abode*"  dis- 
tinguished by  days,  and  waters,  and  lights.  10.  By  an  auspicious 
path  do  thou  hasten  past  the  two  four-eyed  brindled  dogs,  the 
offspring  of  Sarama.  Then  approach  the  benevolent  Fathers  who 
dwell  in  festivity  with  Tama  (compare  A.V.  xviii.  4,  10).  11.  In- 
trust him,*'^  0  Tama,  to  thy  two  four-eyed,  road-guarding,  man- 
observing  watch-dogs ;  and  bestow  on  him  prosperity  and  health.  12. 
The  two  brown  messengers  of  Tama,  broad  of  nostril  and  insatiable, 
wander  about  among  men.''^'  May  they  give  us  again  to-day  the  auspi- 
cious breath  of  life,  that  we  may  behold  the  sun.  13.  Pour  out  the 
soma  to  Tama,  offer  him  an  oblation.  To  Tama  the  sacrifice  pro- 
ceeds when  heralded  by  Agni  and  prepared.  14.  Offer  to  Tama  an 
oblation  with  butter,  and  be  active.     May  he  grant  us  to  live  a  long 

which  does  not  seem  to  hring  out  a  good  sense.  Both,  on  the  other  hand  (in  Jonrn. 
Grerm.  Or.  Society,  iv.  428),  connects  the  yfoxipmiali  with  what  precedes,  and  renders 
the  verse  thus :  "  Enter  thy  home,  laying  down  again  all  imperfection,"  etc. 

*35  The  A.V.  xviii.  2,  24,  says  :  ma  te  mano  ma  'sor  ma  'nganam  ma  ramsya  te  | 
ma  te  hasta  tanvah  kinchaneha  ]  25.  Ma  tm  vrikshah  sam  badhishta  ma  devi  prithivt 
mahi  I  hkam  pitrisAu  vitva  edhifsva  Yamarajam  |  26.  Tat  te  amgam  atihitam  para- 
chair  apanah  pram  yah  u  vate  paretah  |  tat  te  sangatya  pitarah  sanldSh  ghasad 
ghasam  ptmar  a  veiayantu  \  "  Let  not  thy  soul  nor  anything  of  thy  spirit  («««),  or 
of  thy  memhers,  or  of  thy  substance,  or  of  thy  body,  disappear.  25.  Let  no  tree  vex 
thee,  nor  the  great  divine  earth.  Having  found  an  abode  among  the  Fathers,  flourish 
among  the  subjects  of  Yama.  26.  Whatever  member  of  thine  has  been  removed  afar, 
or  breath  of  thine  has  departed  in  the  wind,  may  the  combined  Fathers  reunite  them 
all  with  thee," 

*36  These  words,  according  to  Professor  MuUer,  are  addressed  to  evil  spirits. 

*"  Avasanam.  Compare  A.V.  xviii.  2,  37,  where  Yama  is  said  to  recognise  those 
who  are  his  own :  dadami  asmai  avasanam  etad  yah  esha  agad  mama  ched  abhud 
iha  I  Tamas'  chikitvan prati  etad  aha  mamaisha  raye  upa  tishthatam  iha  \  "I  give 
this  abode  to  this  man  who  has  come  hither,  if  he  is  mine.  Yama,  perceiving,  says 
again,  '  He  is  mine,  let  him  come  hither  to  prosperity.'  " 

*3^  See  Both,  Journal  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  428,  at  the  foot,  and  his  ex- 
planation of  pari  dehi,  s.v.  da  (see  also  x.  16,  2  ;  and  A.V.  viii.  2,  20,  22).  Miiller, 
on  the  other  hand  (p.  xiv.),  translates :  "  Siurouud  him,  Yama,  protecting  him  from 
the  dogs,"  etc. 

*39  The  two  dogs  of  Yama  are  also  mentioned  in  A.  V.  viii.  1,  9,  where  one  of  them 
Js  said  to  he  black  (s'yama)  and  the  other  spotted  (s'abala).  In  A.V.  viii.  2,  11,  the 
messengers  of  Yama,  who  wander  among  men,  are  spoken  of  in  the  plural,  without 
being  described  as  dogs  ( Vaivaavatena  prahitan  Tama-dutams  eharato  'pa  sedhami 
sarvan).  In  A.V.  v.  30,  6,  they  are  spoken  of  as  two  :  dutau  Tamasya  ma  'nugah 
adhijma^wa  ihi  \  "  Do  not  follow  Yama's  two  messengers ;  come  to  the  cities  of  the 
living."  In  A.V.  viii.  8, 10  f.  also  the  messengers  of  Death  and  Yama  are  mentioned. 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  TAMA  AND  THE  rATHERS.  295 

life  among  the  gods.  15.  Offer  a  most  honied  oblation  to  king  Tama. 
Let  this  salutation  (be  presented)  to  the  earliest-born,  the  ancient 
rishis,  who  made  for  us  a  path." 

Hymn  15  of  the  same  Mandala  is  addressed  to  the  Fathers,  or 
departed  ancestors,  who,  as  we  have  already  seen,  are  conceived  to  be 
living  in  a  state  of  blessedness  in  the  other  world,  though  in  some 
places,  as  we  shall  see,  some  of  them  are  conceived  to  have  other  abodes. 
I  will  quote  some  verses  from  it,  which  will  show  stiU  further  their 
enjoyments,  powers,  and  prerogatives : — 

X.  15,  1.  Ud  iratam  mare  ut  pwrasah  ud  madhyamah  pitarah  som- 
yasah  \  asum  ye  lyur  mrihah  ritcy'nds  te  no  avantu  pitaro  hmeshu  \  2. 
Idam  pitribhyo  namo  astu  adya  ye  purvdso  ye  vpa/rasah  lyuh  \  ye 
parthwe  rajasi  a  nishattah  ye  vd  nunam  suvrij'andsu  vikshu  |  ....  5. 
Vpahutdh  pita/rah  gomyaso  barhishyeshu  nidhishu  priyeshu  \  te  a  gamantu 
te  iha  iruvantti  adhi  Iruvantu  te  avantu  asmdn  \  6.  Achya  j'dnu  dak- 
sMmto  nishadya  imam  ycy'nam  dbhi  grinita  vUve  \  ma  Mmsishta  pitarah 
kena  chin  no  yad  vah  agah  puriishatd  karama  |  7.  Asindso  arumndm 
tipaathe  rayim  dhaita  dasushe  martydya  |  putrebhyah  pitaras  tasya 
vasvah  pra  yaeJihata  te  ihorjafh  dadhata  |  8.  Ye  nah  purve  pitarah 
somyaso  anuhire  somapitham  vasishthdh  \  tebhir  Yamah  samra/rdno 
hammshi  usann  usadbhih  pratikdmam  attu  |  ....  10.  Ye  satydso  havi- 
rado  hweishpdh  Indrena  devaih  sa/ratham  dadhdnah  \  a  Agne  yahi  sahas- 
rafh  devavandmh  pwraih  purvaih  pitribJiir  gharmasadbhih  \  11.  Agni- 
slwdttdh  pita/rah  d  iha  gaohhata  sadah  sadah  sidata  supranltayah  \  atta 
havlmshi  prayatdni  barhishi  atha  rayim  sarva/vlram  dadlidtana  |  ....  13. 
Ye  eheha  pitaro  ye  eha  neha  yd&S  cha  vidma  ydmi  cha  na  pra/oidma  \ 
i/oam  vettha  yati  tejdtwvedah  Bvadhdbhir  yajnafh,  suhritam  jushaava  \  14. 
Ye  agnidagdhdh  ye  a/nagnidagdhdh  madhye  divah  svadhayd  mddayante  \ 
tebhih  svardl  asunitim  etdm  yathdvakam  tarmam  kalpayasva  \ 

"I  (=Y.  S.  19,  49;  Wvc.  11,  18).  Let  the  lower,  the  upper,  and 
the  middle  Fathers,  the  offerers  of  soma,  arise.  May  these  Fathers, 
innocuous,  and  versed  in  righteousness,  who  have  attained  to  (higher) 
life  {asu)  ""  protect  us  in  the  invocations.  2  (=V.  S.  19,  68).  Let  this 
reverence  be  to-day  paid  to  the  Fathers  who  departed  first,  and  who 
{departed)  last,  who  are  situated  in  the  terrestrial  sphere,'*'  or  who  are 

**<•  Compare  the  word  aaura,  "  Spirit,"  and  aamiiti,  in  Terse  14,  below. 

*"  Compare  A.V.  xviii.  2,  49  :  Te  najipituh  pitaro  ye  pitamahSfy  ye  avivimr  uru 


296  HYMNS  EELATINO  TO  TAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS. 

now  among  the  powerful  races  (the  gods) 5  (=V.  S.  19,  57). 

Invited  to  these  favourite  ohlations  placed  on  the  grass,  may  the 
Pathers,  the  offerers  of  soma,  come  ;  may  they  hear  us,  may  they 
intercede  for  us,  and  preserve  us.  6  (=V.  S.  19,  62).  Bending  the 
knee,  and  sitting  to  the  south,  do  ye  all  accept  this  sacrifice.  Do  us  no 
injury,  o  Fathers,  on  account  of  any  offence  which  we,  after  the 
manner  of  men,  may  commit  against  you.  7  (=V.  S.  19,  63).  Sitting 
upon  the  ruddy  [woollen  coverlets],  bestow  wealth  on  the  mortal  who 
worships  you.  Fathers,  bestow  this  wealth  upon  your  sons,  and  now 
grant  them  sustenance.  8  (=V.  S.  19,  51).  May  Tama  feast  accord- 
ing to  his  desire  on  the  oblations,  eager,  and  sharing  his  gratification 
with  the  eager  Vasishthas,  our  ancient  ancestors,  who  presented  the 
soma  libation.  10.  Come,  Agni,  with  a  thousand  of  those  exalted 
ancient  Fathers,  adorers  of  the  gods,  sitters  at  the  fire,  who  are  true, 
who  are  eaters  and  drinkers  of  oblations,  and  who  are  received  into 
the  same  chariot  with  Indra  and  the  gods.  11  (=Y.  S.  19,  59). 
Come  hither,  ye  Agnishvatta  Fathers ;  occupy  each  a  seat,  ye  wise 
directors ;  eat  the  oblations  ^  which  have  been  arranged  on  the  grass, 
and  then  bestow  wealth  on  us,  with  all  our  offspring "'..,.  13. 
Thou  knowest,  o  Jatavedas,  how  many  those  Fathers  are  who  are  here 
and  who  are  not  here,  those  whom  we  know  and  do  not  know ;  accept 


antariksham  |  i/e  ahsMyamii  pritMvm  uta  ch/am  tebhyalfpitrithyo  namasa  vidkema  \ 
"  Let  us  worship  with  reverence  those  Fathers  who  are  the  fathers,  and  those  who 
are  the  grandfathers,  of  our  father ;  those  who  have  entered  into  the  atmosphere,  or 
who  inhabit  the  earth  or  the  sky."     See  also  A.V.  xviii.  3,  59. 

*"  According  to  the  A.V.  xviii.  2,  28,  evil  spirits  sometimes  come  along  with  the 
Fathers :  t/e  daaymo  pitrishu  prmishtah  jnatimuk/iBfy  ahutadas  cha/ranti  \  parapufo 
nipuro  ye  bharcmti  Agnir  tan  asmat  pro,  dhamSii  yajnat  \  "  May  Agni  hlow  away 
ftom  this  sacrifice  those  Dasyus  who  have  no  share  in  the  oblations,  whether  they 
wear  gross  or  subtile  bodies,  who  come,  entering  among  the  Fathers,  with  the  faces  of 
friends."    Compare  V.  S.  ii.  30,  and  commentary. 

*^'  Compare  A.V.  vi.  41,  3 :  ma  no  hasishwr  rishayo  daivy&h  ye  tanupah  ye  not 
tamias  tanujali  \  amartyah  martySn  abhi  naif  sachadh/oam  ayur  dhatta  prataram 
jlvaae  nah  |  "  Let  not  the  divine  rishis,  who  are  the  protectors  of  our  bodies,  forsake 
us.  Do  ye  who  are  immortal  visit  us  who  are  mortals ;  put  into  us  vitality  that  we 
may  live  longer."  A.V.  viii.  8,  Ifi  :  Gandharmpsarasah  sarpan  devdn  punyajanan 
pitrln  I  drishtSn  adrishtan  ishnami  yatlm  senam  amum  hanan  |  "  I  incite  the  Gand- 
harvas,  Apsarases,  serpents,  gods,  those  holy  men  the  Fathers,  the  seen  and  the  un- 
seen, that  they  may  destroy  this  army."  According  to  the  Mahabbarata,  Sabhapar- 
van,  461,  there  are  seven  troops  of  Pitris  or  Fathers,  four  embodied  {murttimanta^) 
and  three  bodiless  {a^aririnal^). 


FTTNEEAL  HYMN  ADDRESSED  TO  AGNI.  297 

the  sacrifice  -well  offered  witk  the  oblations.  14  (=V.  S.  19,  60).  Do 
thou,  0  self-resplendent  god"*  —  along  with  those  (fathers)  who, 
whether  they  have  undergone  cremation  or  not,  are  gladdened  by  our 
oblation — grant  us  this  (higher)  vitality  {asunlti),*"  and  a  body  ac- 
cording to  our  desire." 

A  funeral  hymn  addressed  to  Agni*"  (x.  16)  also  contains  some 
verses  which  illustrate  the  views  of  the  writer  regarding  a  future  life : 

X.  16,  1.  Ma  enam  Agne  vi  daho  ma  'bM  iocho  ma  'sya  ivaoham 
cMkshipo  ma  sarlram  |  yadd  iritam  krinmo  Jdtavedo  athem  enam  pra 
hinutat  pitribhyah  \  2,  S'ritam  yada  karasi  Jatavedo  athem  enam  pari 
dattat  pitribhyah  |  yada.  gachhdti  asunitim  etdm  atha  devandm  vaianir 
bhavdti  I  3.  Suryam  chakshwr  gachhatu  vdtam  dtmd  dydm  oha  gaehha  pri- 
thivlm  eha  dharmand  \  apo  vd  gaehha  yadi  tatra  te  hitam  oshadMshu  prati 
tishtha  iarlraih  \  4.  Aj'o  bhagas  tapasd  tarn  tapasva  tarn  te  ioehis  tapatu 
tarn  te  arehih  \  yds  te  iivds  tanvo  Jdtavedas  tdbhir  vahainam  sukritam  u 
lokam  I  5.  Ava  srij'a  punar  agne  pitribhyo  yas  te  ahutas  charati  svadhd- 
Ihih  I  dyur  vasanah  wpa  vetu  ieshah  sangachhaiafh  tanvd  Jatavedah  {  6. 
Yat  te  Icrishnah  sakunah  dtutoda  pipilah  sarpah  uta  vd  ^vdpadah  \  Agnis 
tad  viham  agadam  krinotu  Somas  eha  yo  brdhmandn  dviveia  \ 

"1.  Do  not,  Agni,  burn  up  or  consume  him  (the  deceased);  do  not 


*"  As  Agni  is  addressed  in  the  two  preceding  verses,  it  might  have  heen  supposed 
that  he  is  referred  to  in  this  epithet  of  self-resplendent  (^svarat),  or  sovereign  ruler, 
especially  as  the  same  fanction  is  assigned  to  him  in  x.  16,  6,  as  is  assigned  to  the 
deity  addressed  in  this  verse.  But  the  commentator  on  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  19, 
60  (where  the  verse  occurs,  with  most  of  the  others  in  this  hymn,  though  not  in  the 
same  order),  understands  it  of  Yama ;  as  does  also  Professor  Eoth  (see  s.v.  aaumtfj 
in  the  passage  of  the  A.V.,  where  it  occurs  along  with  asimiti.    See  next  note. 

445  This  word  also  occurs  in  the  second  verse  of  the  next,  the  16th  hymn.  In  E.V, 
I.  89,  5,  6,  it  appears  to  be  employed  as  the  personification  of  a  god  or  goddess. 
Professor  Miiller,  Journ.  E.A.S.  vol.  ii.  (1866),  p.  460,  note  2,  however,  considers 
that  "  there  is  nothing  to  show  that  Asnniti  is  a  female  deity."  "  It  may  be  a  name 
for  Yama,  as  Professor  Eoth  supposes ;  but  it  may  also  he  a  simple  invocation,  one  of  the 
many  names  of  the  deity."  He  himself  renders  it  "  guide  of  Ufe,"  ibid.  In  A.V.  xviii. 
3,  59,  it  is  joined  with  svarat :  ye  nah  pituh  pitaro  ye  pitamahah  ye  avivisur  uru  an- 
tariksham  \  tehhyah  svarad  asumtir  no  adya  yathanaiam  tanvah  kalpayati  \  "  May 
the  monarch  (or  self-resplendent  being)  who  bestows  vitality  fashion  for  the  fathers 
and  grandfathers  of  our  father,  who  have  entered  the  wide  atmosphere,  and  for  us  to- 
day, bodies  according  to  our  desire." 

448  According  to  Professor  Miiller  (Funeral  Eites  of  the  Brahmans,  p.  xi.  f.)  some 
verses  from  this  hymn  are  repeated  after  those  from  hymn  14,  while  the  remains  of 
the  departed  are  being  burnt. 


298  PUNEEAL  HYMN  ADDRESSED  TO  AGNI. 

dissolve  his  skin,  or  his  body."'  "When  thou  has  matured"'  him,  o 
Jataredas,  then  send  him  to  the  Fathers.  2.  When  thou  maturest 
him,  Jatavedas,  then  consign  him  to  the  Fathers.  When  he  shall 
reach  that  state  of  vitality,  he  shall  then  fulfil  the  pleasure  of  the 
gods.  3.  Let  his  eye  go  to  the  sun,"'  his  breath  to  the  wind.  Go  to 
the  sky,  and  to  the  earth,  according  to  (the)  nature  (of  thy  several 
parts)  ;  or  go  to  the  waters,  if  that  is  suitable  for  thee ;  enter  into  the 
plants  with  thy  members.  4.  As  for  his  unborn  part,'  do  thou  (Agni) 
kindle  it  with  thy  heat ;  let  thy  flame  and  thy  lustre  kindle  it;  with 
those  forms  of  thine  which  are  auspicious  convey  it  to  the  world  of 
the  righteous.*'"    5.  Give  up  again,  Agni,  to  the  Fathers,  him  who 

"'  Compare  A.V.  xviii.  4,  10-13.  In  the  sixty-fourth  verse  of  the  same  hymn  it 
IS  said :  yad  vo  Agnir  ajaKad  ekam  a/ngam  pitrilokcm  gamagcm  jatcmedah'  |  tad  vdh 
punar  a  pyayayami  sangali  svarge  pitaro  madayadhoam  \  "  Whatever  limb  of  you 
Agni  Jatavedas  left  behind,  when  conveying  you  to  the  world  of  the  Fathers,  that  I 
here  restore  to  you.    Revel  in  heaven,  ye  Fathers,  with  (all)  your  members." 

"'  Compare  A.V.  xviii.  4,  12. 

"'  In  A.V.  viii.  2,  3,  a  man  dead,  or  in  danger  of  dying,  is  addresed  in  these 
words :  vatat  te  pranam  midam  suryach,  chahshwr  aham  tava  \  yat  te  manas  tvayi 
tad  dhSrayami  sam  vitsva  angair  vada  jihoaya  alapan  \  "  I  have  obtained  thy  breath 
from  the  wind,  thine  eye  from  the  sun ;  I  place  in  thee  thy  soul  (^manas) ;  have  sen- 
sation in  thy  limbs ;  speak,  uttering  (words)  with  thy  tongue."  Compare  A.V.  v. 
24,  9 :  Suryas  ehalcshmham  adhipaiih  |  "  Surya  is  the  superintending  lord  of  the 
eyes  ;"  and  A.V.  xi.  8,  31 :  Suryai  ehahshwr  Vatah  pranam  parushasya  vi  hhejire  \ 
"  Surya  occupied  the  eye,  apd  Vata  (the  wind)  the  breath  of  Purusha  (or  man)."  See 
also  A.V.  xix.  43,  2,  3.  Compare  further  Plato,  Repub.  vi.  18,  where  Socrates  says  of 
the  eye  :  'AAV  7\\ioeiZiaTaT6v  ye  oiiJ.su  ran  irepX  ras  iurBiiaeis  opyivav,  "I  regard  it 
[the  eye]  as  of  all  the  organs  of  sensation,  possessing  the  most  afiinity  to  the  sun."  Eur. 
Suppl.  532  f.  "Odey  S^eKatrruv  ets  rh  ffwfi'  a^^KETO,  ^evravB'  ciir^\0e,  irvevfia  fiev  vphs 
ttiBipa,  ri  ffS/io  S'^j  yfiv  ■  "  But  each  element  of  the  body  has  departed  to  the 
quarter  whence  it  came,  the  breath  to  the  aether,  the  body  itself  to  the  earth."  A 
similar  idea  is  expressed  in  a  verse  of  Goethe,  which  I  had  formerly  read,  and  for  a 
copy  of  which,  with  the  context,  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufrecht.  The  passage 
occurs  in  the  introduction  to  the  Farbenlehre  (Ed.  1858,  vol.  xxxvii.  p.  5),  and  is  as 
follows :  "  Hierbei  erinnern  wir  uns  der  alten  ionischen  Schule,  welohe  mit  so  groszer 
Bedeutsamkeit  immer  wiederholte  :  nur  von  gleiohem  werde  Gleiches  erkannt ;  wie 
aach  der  Worte  eines  alten  Mystikers,  die  wir  in  deutschen  Reimen  folgendermaezen 
ausdriicken  mochten : 

War'  nicht  das  Auge  sonnenhaft, 
Wie  konnten  wir  das  Licht  erblicken  ? 
Lebt'  nicht  in  uns  des  Gottes  eigne  Kraft, 
Wie  konnt'  uns  Gottliches  entziicken  ? 
Jene  unmittelbare  Verwandtschaft  des  Lichtes  und  des  Auges  wird  niemand  laiignen, 
aber"  u.s.w. 

*><>  In  AV.  xviii.  2, 36,  Agni  is  entreated  to  bum  mildly,  and  to  spend  his  fury  on  the 


VARIOUS  INVOCATIONS  OF  AGNI.  299 

comes  offered  to  thee  with  oblations.  Putting  on  life,  let  him  approach 
(his)  remains ;  let  him  meet  with  his  body,  o  Jatavedas.  6.  "Whatever 
part  of  thee  any  black  bird,  or  ant,  or  serpent,  or  beast  of  ptey,  has 
torn,  may  Agni  j-estore  to  thee  all  that,  and  Soma  who  has  entered 
into  the  Brahmans,"  Compare  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  xviii.  51.  Agnim 
yunajmi  savasd  ghritena  dimyam  swpmrmm  vayasa  hrihantam  \  tena  vayam, 
gamema  Iradhnasya  vishtapam  svo  ruhanah,  adhi  nakam  uttamam  \  52. 
Imau  te  pakshav  ajarm,  patatrinau  yabhyarh  rahhdmsi  apahamsi  Agne  \ 
tdbhydm  patema  sukritam  u  lokam  yatra  rishayo  jagmuh,  prathamajdh 
pv/rdndh  \  51.  "With  power  and  with  butter  I  attach  Agni,  the 
celestial  bird,  mighty  in  energy :  through  him  may  we  go  to  the  sphere 
of  the  sun,  ascending  the  sky  to  the  highest  heaven.  62.  Borne  by 
those  thine  undecaying,  flying  pinions,  wherewith  thou,  Agni,  slayest 
the  Eakshases,  may  we  soar  to  the  world  of  the  righteous,  whither 
the  ancient,  earliest-bom  rishis  have  gone." 

In  various  parts  of  the  A.V.  Agni  is  similarly  addressed.  Thus  in 
vi.  120,  1.  Yad  antariksham  prithivtm  uta  dydm  yan  mdtaram  piiaram 
vajiMmsima  \  ayafh  tasmdd  gdrhapatyo  no  Agnir  ud  in  nayati  sukritasya 

woods  and  on  the  earth  {iam  ta/pa  ma  'ti  tapo  Agne  ma  tanvam  tapa  |  vcmeshu 
sushmo  astu  te  prithivyam  astu  yad  ha/rdK).  The  Taittriya  Brahmana  has  the  fol- 
lowing passage  :  iii.  10,  11,  1 :  Kas  chid  ha  vai  asmal  lokat  pretya  atmanam  veda 
" ayam  aham  asmi"  iti  |  kaiehit  svam  lo&am  na  pratijanati  agnimugdho  ha  eva 
dhuma-tantah  svam  lokam  na  pratijanati  I  atho  yo  ha  eva  etam  agnim  savitram  veda 
sa  eva  asmal  lokat  pretya  atmanam  veda  "  ayam  aham  asmi "  iti  \  sa  svam  lokam 
pratijanati  esha  u  cha  eva  enam  tat  savitrdh  svargam  lokam  abhi  vahati  \  "  One  man 
departing  from  this  world  knows  himself  that  '  this  is  I  myself.'  Another  does  not 
recognize  his  own  world.  Bewildered  by  Agni,  and  OTercome  by  smoke,  he  does  not 
recognize  his  own  world.  Now  he  who  knows  this  Agni  Savitra,  when  he  departs 
from  this  world  knows  himself,  'that  this  is  I  myself.'  He  recognizes  his  own  world. 
This  Savitra  carries  him  to  the  heavenly  world."  A  few  lines  further  on  it  is  said  that 
the  days  and  nights  suck  up  in  the  next  world  the  treasure  of  the  man  who  does  not 
possess  a  particular  sort  of  knowledge,  whilst  he  who  knows  Agni  Savitra  finds  his  trea- 
sure not  sucked  up  {tani  ha  anevamvidiisho  amushmin  loke  devadhim  dhayanti  |  .  .  ,  , 
atha  yo  ha  eva  etam  agnim  savitram  veda  tasya  ha  eva  ahorStrani  amushmin  loke 
devadhim  na  dhayanti).  The  Taitt.  Br.  ii,  4, 2,  6,  says  of  Agni :  Fratnam  sadastham 
anttpasyamanah  a  tantv/m  Agnir  dnxiyam  tatana  \  tvam  nas  tantiir  uta  setur  Agne 
tvam  panthah  bhavasi  devayanah  \  tvaya  'gne  prishtham  vayam  aruhema  atha  devaih 
aadhamadam  madema  |  "  Agni,  exploring  the  ancient  abode,  has  extended  the  celestial 
cord.  Thou,  Agni,  art  our  cord,  and  our  bridge ;  thou  art  the  path  which  conducts 
to  the  gods.  By  thee  may  we  ascend  to  the  summit  (of  heaven),  and  there  live  in 
joyful  fellowship  with  the  gods."  The  same  Brahmana  says  in  another  place,  i.  5, 
2,  6,  that  the  stars  are  the  houses  of  the  gods,  and  that  whoever  knows  this  possesses 
houses  {devagrihah  vai  nakshatrani  |  ya^  evam  veda  griht  eva  bhavati). 


300  SUMMARY  OF  THE  CONCEPTIONS 

lolcam  I  "Whatever  injury  we  have  done  to  air,  earth,  or  sky,  to 
father  or  mother,  may  Agni  Garhapatya  (delivering)  us  from  that, 
convey  us  up  to  the  world  of  righteousness."  xii.  2,  45.  Jlvanam  ayuh 
pra  tira  tvam  Agne  pitrinam  lolcam  api  gachhantu  ye  mritdh  |  "Do 
thou,  Agni,  prolong  the  lives  of  living  creatures ;  and  may  those  who 
are  dead  go  to  the  world  of  the  Fathers."  xviii.  3,  71.  Arahhasva 
jatcmedas  tejasvad  hmro  astu  ie  ]  ia/nram  asya  sandaha  athainam  dhehi 
sukritam  u  loke  j  "Seize  him,  Agni,  let  thy  heat  he  powerful;  bum 
his  body ;  then  place  him  in  the  world  of  the  righteous."  xviii.  4,  9. 
Purvo  'gnis  tvd  tapatu  iam  pwrastad  sam  paickat  tapatu  garhapatyah  \ 
dakshinagnis  U  tapatu  ia/rma  varma  uttarato  madhyato  antariksMd  diio 
dUo  Agne  parip&M  ghorat  \  10.  Yuyam  Agne  iantamalhis  tanulMr 
yanam  abhi  lokam,  svargam  \  aivah  hhutva  prishtivaho  vahdtha  yatra 
devaih  sadhamadam  madanti  \  "May  the  eastern  fire  warm  thee  pro- 
pitiously in  front  (or  to  the  east),  and  the  garhapatya  fire  behind  (or 
to  the  west) ;  may  the  southern  fire  warm  thee,  as  thy  defender  and 
protector:  Agni,  preserve  from  everything  dreadful  on  the  north,  in 
the  middle,  from  the  air,  and  from  every  side.  10.  Do  ye  (the 
various  forms  of)  Agni,  become  horses,  and  carry  the  sacrificer  on 
your  backs  in  your  most  gracious  forms  to  heaven,  where  men  hold 
festival  with  the  gods." 

(4)  Summary  of  the  conceptions  comeyed  in  the  preceding  quotations. 

I  shall  now  extract  from  these  texts  and  others  a  summary  of  the 
conceptions  which  they  convey. 

Tama  is  the  son  of  Vivasvat  (ix.  113,  8;  x.  14,  1  [=A.V.  xviii. 
1,  49]  ;  X.  14,  5 ;  x.  58,  1  ;  x.  60,  10),  and  of  Saranyu,  the  immortal 
daughter  of  Tvashtri  (x.  17,  1,  2).  He  is  elsewhere  said,  as  Professor 
Eoth  considers  *"  (see  above),  to  have  been  one  of  the  original  pair  of 

*6i  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  426  ;  Journal  of  American  Oriental 
Society,  iii.  335  ;  Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  p.  138.  As  Professor  Miiller  denies  (see 
atove,  p.  288)  that  Tama  was  regarded  by  the  Vedic  poets  as  the  first .  man,  he 
explains  as  follows  (Lectures,  2nd  Series,  p.  614  ff.)  the  process  by  which  he  came 
to  be  transformed  into  the  monarch  of  the  dead :  "Let  ns  imagine,  then,"  he  says, 
"  as  well  as  we  can,  that  yama,  twin,  was  used  as  the  name  of  the  evening,  or  the 
setting  sun,  and  we  shall  be  able  perhaps  to  understand  ho^  in  the  end  Tama  came 
to  be  the  king  of  the  departed  and  the  god  of  death.  As  the  East  was  to  the  early 
thinkers  the  source  of  life,  the  West  was  to  them  Mrriti,  the  exodus,  the  land  of 


OOIfVETED  IN  THE  PEECEDING  QUOTATIONS.  301 

human  beings  (x.  10,  2),  and  to  have  sprung  from  the  Gandharva,  a 
deity  of  the  atmosphere,  and  his  wife  (x.  10,  4).  In  the  same  hymn 
{passim)  he  is  declared  to  have  resisted  the  solicitations  of  his  twin- 
siBter  Yarn!  to  form  a  sexual  union  with  her  for  the  continuation  ot 
the  species."^  He  was  the  first  of  mortals  who  died,  and  discovered 
the  way  to  the  other  world;  he  guides  other  men  thither,  and  as- 
sembles them  in  a  home,  which  is  secured  to  them  for  ever  (x.  14, 1,  2; 
A.V.  vi.  28,  3;  xviii.  1,  49,  50;  xviii.  3,  13).*'''  In  one  place  he  is 
represented  as  carousing  with  the  gods  under  a  leafy  tree,  E.V.  x. 

death.  The  sun,  conceived  as  setting  or  dying  every  day,  was  the  first  who  had 
trodden  the  path  of  life  from  East  to  West — the  first  mortal — the  first  to  show 
us  the  way  when  our  course  is  run,  and  our  sun  sets  in  the  far  "West.".  .  .  .  "That 
Tama's  character  is  solar  might  be  guessed  from  his  being  called  the  son  of  Vivas- 
vat.  Vivasvat,  like  Tama,  is  sometimes  considered  as  sending  death.  R.V.  viii. 
67,  20 :  '  May  the  shaft  of  Vivasvat,  o  Adityas,  the  poisoned  arrow,  not  strike  ua 
before  we  are  old !  "  '  [And  in  A.V.  xix.  9,  7,  it  is  said :  "  May  Mitra,  may  Varuna, 
may  Vivasvat,  may  the  Euder  (death)  be  favourable  to  us  (^am  no  Mitrah  sam 
Varumh  dam  Vivasvan  sum  Antakah).  On  the  other  hand  Vivasvat  is  sometimes 
spoken  of  as  preserving  from  Tama.  Thus  in  A.V.  xviii.  3,  62,  it  is  said :  Vivasvan 
no  amritatve  dadhatu  paraitu  mrityw  amritam  nah  aitv,  \  iman  rakshatu  pwrn- 
shan  a  jarimno  mo  shu  esham  memo  Yamam  guh  \  "  May  Vivasvat  place  us  in  a 
state  of  immortality.  May  death  pass  away,  and  deathlessness  come  to  us.  May  he 
preserve  these  men  from  decay.  May  their  spirits  not  depart  to  Tama."—  J.M.] 
....'•'  His  (Tama's)  ovra  seat  is  called  the  house  of  the  gods  (x.  135,  7) ;  and  these 
words  follow  immediately  on  a  verse  in  which  it  is  said  :  '  the  abyss  is  stretched  out 
in  the  East,  the  outgoing  is  in  the  West."  (In  a  note  the  following  are  referred  to 
as  additional  passages  to  be  consulted,  viz.,  E.V.  i.  116,  2  ;  vii.  33,  9  ;  ix.  68,  3, 
3;  X.  12,  6  ;  x.  13,  2,  4 ;  x.  33,  3  ;  x.  64,  3 ;  x.  123,  6.)  "These  indications, 
though  fragmentary,  are  sufficient  to  show  that  the  character  of  Tama,  such  as  we 
find  it  in  the  last  book  of  the  Eig-veda,  might  well  have  been  suggested  by  the 
setting  sun,  personified  as  the  leader  of  the  human  race,  as  himself  a  mortal,  yet  as  a 
king,  as  the  ruler  of  the  departed,  as  worshipped  with  the  fathers,  as  the  first  witness 
of  an  immortality  to  be  enjoyed  by  the  fathers,"  etc.  I  may  remark  that  in  the 
S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  1,  3,  4,  Tama  is  identified  with  the  sun ;  but  he  is,  a  little  farther  on, 
xiv.  -2,  2,  11,  similarly  identified  with  Vayu. 

452  See  Professor  Eoth's  observations  on  this  dialogue  in  the  Journal  of  the  Ameri- 
can Oriental  Society,  iii.  335  f. 

*^  See  Professor  Eoth's  remarks  on  these  passages  in  the  Journals,  etc.,  above 
referred  to.  In  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  427,  he  remarks  on 
these  hymns  :  "We  here  find,  not  without  astonishment,  beautiful  conceptions  on  im- 
mortality, expressed  in  unadorned  language  with  child-like  conviction.  If  it  were 
necessary,  we  might  here  find  the  most  powerful  weapons  against  the  view  which  has 
lately  been  revived,  and  proclaimed  as  new,  that  Persia  was  the  only  birthplace  of 
the  idea  of  immortality,  and  that  even  the  nations  of  Europe  had  derived  it  from  that 
quarter ;  as  if  the  religious  spirit  of  every  gifted  race  was  not  able  to  arrive  at  it  by 
its  own  strength." 


302  SUMMARY  OP  THE  CONCEPTIONS 

135,  1"'  {ymmin  vrikshe  stipaMh  devaih  simpilaie  Yamah).  He  is  a 
king,  and  dwells  in  celestial  light,  in  the  innermost  sanctuary  of 
heaven,  ix.  113,  7,  8  (see  above,  p.  226,  and  below,  where  the  passage 
will  be  quoted  at  greater  length),  where  the  departed  behold  him 
associated  in  blessedness  with  Yaruna  (x.  14,  7).  He  grants  luminous 
abodes  in  heaven  to  the  pious  (x.  14,  9),  who  dwell  with  him  in 
festive  enjoyment  (x.  14,  8,  10).  In  the  A.V.  xviii.  2,  32,  he  is  said 
to  be  superior  to  Vivasvat,  and  to  be  himself  surpassed  by  none  (  Yamah 
pwro  'varo  Vivasvan  tatah  param  na  ati  paiyami  kinchana). 

In  the  Eig-veda  Tama  is  nowhere  represented  (as  he  is  in  the  later 
Indian  mythology)  "=  as  having  anything  to  do  with  the  future  punish- 
ment of  the  wicked.  In  fact,  the  hymns  of  that  Yeda  contain,  as  far 
as  I  am  aware,  no  prominent  mention  of  any  such  penal  retribution ; 
but  the  passages  which  appear  to  recognize  the  existence  of  a  Tartarus 
wiU  be  quoted  further  on.  Nevertheless,  Tama  is  still  to  some  extent 
an  object  of  terror.  In  x.  14,  10-12,  he  is  represented  as  having  two 
insatiable  dogs,  with  four  eyes  and  wide  nostrils,  which  guard  the  road 
to  his  abode,  and  which  the  departed  are  advised  to  hurry  past  with  all 
possible  speed.  These  dogs  are  said  to  wander  about  among  men  as 
his  messengers  (x.  14,  12),  no  doubt  for  the  purpose  of  summoning 
them  to  the  presence  of  their  master,  who  is  in  another  place,  x.  165,  4, 
identifted  with  death,  and  is  described  as  sending  a  bird  as  the  herald 
of  doom  {yasya  dutah  prahitah  esha  etat  tasmai  Yamaya  namo  astu 

***  In  A.V.  xviii.  4,  3,  the  Adityas  are  said  to  feast  on  honey  in  heaven  {madhu 
hhakshayanti). 

455  According  to  the  Pnranas,  "  Tama  fulfils  the  office  of  judge  of  the  dead,  as 
,  well  as  sovereign  of  the  damned ;  all  that  die  appearing  before  him,  and  being  con- 
fronted with  Chitragupta,  the  recorder,  by  -whom  their  actions  have  been  registered. 
,The  virtuous  are  thence  conveyed  to  Swarga,  or  Elysium,  whilst  the  wicked  are  driven 
to  the  different  regions  of  Naraka,  or  Tartarus."  (Wilson,  Vishnu  Parana,  p.  216  of 
Dr.  HaU's  ed.  vol.  2).  Chitragupta  is  described  in  the  following  tasteless  and  extra- 
vagant style  in  the  Vrihannaradiya  Purana,  quoted  in  Professor  Anfrecht's  Catalogue 
of  the  Bodl.  Sansk.  MSS.,  p.  10,  note :  Pralayambwda-nirghosho  ait/anadri-sama- 
prabhah  |  mdyut-prabhayttdhair  bhtmo  dvatrimsad-bhuia-sam/utah  |  yojcma-traya- 
viataro  raktaksho  dirffhanasileah  \  damahtra-harala-vadoMO  vSpltuk/a-viloehcma^  | 
mrityu-jvaradibhir  yuhtas  eMtragupto  vibhtshanah  |  "  The  dreadful  Chitragupta, 
with  a  voice  like  that  issuing  from  the  clouds  at  the  mundane  dissolution,  gleaming 
like  a  mountain  of  coUyrium,  terrible  with  lightning-like  weapons,  having  thirty- 
two  arms,  as  big  as  three  yojanas,  red-eyed,  long-nosed,  his  face  furnished  with 
grinders  and  projecting  teeth,  his  eyes  resembling  oblong  ponds,  bearing  death 
and  diseases." 


CONVEYED  IN  THE  PRECEDING  QUOTATIONS.  303 

mrityme,  compare  A.V.  vi.  29,  Iff.).  And  in  a  verse  of  the  A.V. 
(xviii.  2,  27),  death  is  said  to  be  the  messenger  of  Tama,  who  conveys 
the  spirits  of  men  to  the  abode  of  their  forefathers.  In  another  place 
(K.V.  X.  97,  16)  deliverance  is  sought  from  the  bonds  of  Tama,  as  well 
as  those  of  Varuna  {munchantu  ma  sapathyad  atho  Varunyad  uta  \  atho 
Yamasya  padbiiat,  see  also  A.Y.  viii.  7,  28).  In  E.V.  i.  38,  5,  too, 
where  it  is  said  {ma  vo  mrigo  na  yavase  jarita  hhud  ajoshyah  \  patha 
Yamasya  gad  upa)  "  Let  not  thy  worshipper  be  disregarded  like  a  wild 
animal  in  a  pasture,  or  go  along  the  road  of  Tama,"  Tama  is  equiva- 
lent to  death.  In  the  following  verse  (already  quoted)  of  the  A.V.  vi. 
28,  3,  also,  Tama  is  identified  with  Mrityu  (death) :  "  Eeverence  be 
to  Tama,  death,  who  first  reached  the  river,  spying  out  the  road  for 
many,  who  is  lord  of  these  two-footed  and  four-footed  creatures." 
(This  verse  coincides  in  part  with  E.Y.  x.  14,  1,  quoted  above.) 
Compare  also  A.V.  v.  30,  12;  vi.  63,  2.) 

When  the  remains  of  the  deceased  have  been  placed  upon  the 
funeral  pile,  and  the  process  of  cremation  has  begun,  Agni,  the  god  of 
fire,  is  prayed  not  to  scorch  or  consume  the  departed,  not  to  tear 
asunder  his  skin  or  his  limbs,  but  after  the  flames  have  done  their 
work,  to  convey  to  the  Fathers  the  mortal  who  has  been  presented  to 
him  as  an  offering.  The  eye  of  the  departed  is  bidden  to  go  to  the 
sun ;  his  breath  to  the  wind ;  and  his  different  members  to  the  sky, 
the  earth,  the  waters,  or  the  plants,  according  to  their  several  affinities. 
As  for  his  unborn  part  {afo  Ihdgah),  Agni  is  supplicated  to  kindle  it 
with  his  heat  and  flame,  and,  assuming  his  most  auspicious  form,  to 
convey  it  to  the  world  of  the  righteous  (x.  16,  1-5  ;  Vaj.  Sanh.  xviii. 
51  i.).*^  Before,  however,  this  unborn  part  can  complete  its  course 
from  earth  to  the  third  heaven,  it  has  to  traverse  a  vast  gulf  of  dark- 
ness.*"    Leaving  behind  on  earth  all  that  is  evil  and  imperfect,  and 

*56  In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  2,  1,  1,  a  man  is  said  to  be  thrice  horn;  first  from  his 
father  and  mother,  the  second  time  through  sacrifice,  and  the  third  time  when,  after 
death  and  cremation,  he  once  more  emerges  into  life  {trir  ha,  vai  pwrusho  jayate  | 
etan  nu  eva  matus  eha  adhi  pitus  cha  agre  jayate  \  atha  yam  yajnah  'wpamamatisa 
yad  yajate  tad  doittyam  jayate  \  atha  yatra  mriyate  yatra  enam  agnav  aihySdadhati 
sa  yat  tatah  aambhamati  tat  tritJyam  jayate). 

^s'  A.V.  vs..  6,1.  A  nay  a  etam  S  raihasva  mkritam  lokam  api  gachhatu  prajanan  \ 
tirtva  tamamsi  iakiidha  mahanti  ajo  naham  akrmnatam  tritiyam  |  3.  Pra  pado  'va 
nenigdhi  duseharitaik  yat  ehaehara  aiMhaih  iaphair  a  kramatam  prajanan  \  tirtva 
tamamsi  bahudha  vipaiyann  ajo  mkam  akramatam  tritiyam  |  From  the  contents  of 


304      RESULTS  OP  THE  PBECEDING  aUOTATIONS, 

proceeding  by  the  paths  which  the  fathers  trod  (K.V.  x.  14,  7),  the 
spirit,  invested  with  a  lustre  like  that  of  the  gods,  A.V.  xi.  1,  37  {yem 
devdh  jyotisha  dyam  udayan  brahmaudanam  paktva  sukritasya  lokam  \ 
tena  geshma  sukritasya  lokam  svar  arohanto  abhi  ndkam  uitamam),  soars 
to  the  realms  of  eternal  light  (ix.  113,  7,)  in  a  car,  or  on  wings  (A.V. 
iv.  34,  4),  on  the  undeoaying  pinions  wherewith  Agni  slays  the  Kak- 
shases  (Vaj.  Sanh.  xviii.  62),  wafted  upwards  by  the  Maruts,  fanned  by 
soft  and  gentle  breezes,  and  refrigerated  by  showers  (A.V.  xviii.  2, 
21  ff.) ;    recovers  there  its  ancient  body  in  a  complete  (A.V.  xviii.  2, 

verse  2  (where  the  aja  is  said  to  be  carried  to  Indra  as  his  share),  and  from  the 
mention  of  "hoofs"  in  verse  3, 1  am  now  led  to  think  that  these  verses  refer  to  a 
goat,  and  not  to  the  unborn  spirit  (both  being  denoted  by  the  word  aja),  although 
some  of  the  expressions  seem  more  properly  applicable  to  the  latter  than  to  the  former. 
In  any  case,  however,  the  verses  prove  that  any  being  proceeding  from  earth  to 
heaven  has  to  traverse  a  region  of  darkness  before  he  can  reach  his  destination.  I 
translate  as  follows  :  "  Convey  him  ;  carry  him  ;  let  him,  understanding,  go  to  the 
world  of  the  righteous.  Crossing  the  gloom,  in  many  directions  immense,  let  the 
goat  ascend  to  the  third  heaven 3.  Wash  his  feet  if  he  has  committed  wicked- 
ness :  understanding,  let  him  ascend  with  cleansed  hoofe.  Crossing  the  gloom,  gazing 
in  many  directions,  let  the  goat  ascend  the  third  heaven."  Compare  E.V.  i.  50,  10 
(=  A.V,  vii.  63,  7)  quoted  above  in  the  Section  on  Surya,  p.  160.  In  the  Vaj. 
Sanh.  zxxi.  18,  also,  the  great  Purusha,  of  sun-like  brightness  {atHtt/a-varm),  is 
said  to  dwell  above  the  darkness  (tamaaah  parastat).  See  also  Manu,  iv.  242.  The 
commentator,  on  this  latter  passage,  however,  as  well  as  Both,  s.v.  tamas,  under- 
stands the  phrase  duataram  tamas,  "  darkness  hard  to  cross,"  as  referring  to  hell. 
Compare  the  phrases  adhamam  tamas  and  andham  tamas,  to  be  adduced  further  on. 
The  word  aja  seems  to  have  the  sense  of  "  the  unborn  "  in  different  passages  of  the 
E.V.,  and  in  A.V.  x.  7,  31  (see  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v.,  2,  «/«) ;  but  it  may  have 
the  sense  of  "goat"  throughout  the  whole  of  A.V.  ix.  5,  though  B.  and  B.  adduce 
verse  7  as  one  of  the  places  where  it  means  "  unborn."  That  verse,  however,  may 
be  rendered  thus  :  "  The  goat  is  Agni ;  they  call  the  goat  light ;  they  say  that  a  goat 
is  to  be  given  by  a  living  man  to  the  priest.  A  goat,  when  given  in  this  world  by  a 
believing  man,  disperses  the  gloom  afar  {Ajo  Agnir  ajam  u  jyotir  ahur  ajam  jlvata 
brahmane  deyam  ahuh  \  ajas  tamdmsi  apa  hanti  duram  asmin  lake  sraddadhdnena 
dattah)."  In  the  same  way  it  is  said,  in  verse  10  ;  Ajas  trinake  tridive  trip- 
rishthe  riakasya  prishthe  dadivainsam  dadhati  \  poMchaudano  brahmane  dtya- 
manah.  |  "The  aja  panohatulama,  given  to  a  priest,  places  him  who  bestows  it 
in  the  third  heaven,  in  the  third  sky,  on  the  third  summit,  on  the  top  of  the 
heaven,"  and  in  verse  21 :  "  This  aja  panchaudana  is  an  illimitable  offering." 
In  the  A.V.  xviii.  2,  48,  there  are  said  to  be  three  heavens :  "  The  watery 
{udamiati)  heaven  is  the  lowest,  the  ptlumatt  is  the  intermediate  heaven,  and  the 
third  is  the  pradyam,  in  which  the  Fathers  dwell"  [udanvatl  dyaur  avama  pilit- 
matlti  madhyama  \  tritiya  ha  pradyaur  iti  yasyam  pitarah  asate).  This  agrees 
with  the  mention  of  the  third  heaven  in  A.V.  ix.  5,  1.  Three  skies  (tisro  dyavah) 
are  also  mentioned  in  R.V.  vii.  101,  4  ;  and  in  B.V.  vii.  104,  11,  three  earths  {tisrah 


FTJETHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OP  PARADISE,  ETC.     305 

24  ff.*'"  and  glorified  form,'™  meets  with  the  forefathers  who  are  living 
in  festivity  with  Yama,  obtains  from  him,  when  recognized  by  him  as 
one  of  his  own  (A.V.  xviii.  2,  37),  a  delectable  abode  (E.V.  x.  14, 
8-10),  and  enters  upon  a  more  perfect  life  (E.V.  x.  14,  8  ;  x.  15, 
14 ;  X.  16,  2,  5),  which  is  crowned  with  the  fulfilment  of  all  desires 
(ix.  113,  9,  11),  is  passed  in  the  presence  of  the  gods  (x.  14,  14),  and 
employed  in  the  fulfilment  of  their  pleasure  (x.  16,  2). 

(5)  Ihtrther  quotations  from  the  hymns  on  the  mbjeet  of  paradise  and 
futwe  jpunishment. 

In  the  following  passages  of  the  A.Y.  an  expectation  is  expressed 
that  the  family  relations  will  be  maintained  in  the  next  world  : — 
xii.  3,  1 7 :  Svargaih  hham  ahhi  no  naydsi  sam  jayaya  saha  putraih 

prithivir  adho  astu  viamK).  Professor  Eoth,  t.v.  div.  refers  to  other  passages,  among 
which  is  E.V.  t.  60,  6.  Tad  uttame  Maruto  madhyame  vd  yad  va  avame  subhagmo 
dim  atha  |  "Whether,  fortunate  Maruts,  ye  are  in  the  highest,  middle,  or  lowest, 
sky."  The  A.V.  ir.  20,  2,  says  there  are  three  heavens  and  three  earths  [tisro  divas 
tisrah  prithivth) ;  and  A.V.  ri.  21,  says  there  are  three  earths,  of  which  our  earth 
(fihumi)  is  the  highest  (or  best)  {imah  yas  tisrah  prithivls  tasam  ha  bhiimir  uttamd). 

*58  In  A.V.  ix.  5,  22-26,  it  is  said  that  the  man  who  bestows  an  aja  panehaudana, 
iUnminated  by  largesses  [dahshina-fyotisham, :  compare  Mra^ya-jyotisham,  A.V.  x. 
9,  6),  shall  not  have  his  bones  broken,  or  his  marrow  sacked  out,  but  shall  be  intro- 
duced whole  and  entire  (into  heaven) :  verse  23  [na  tasyaethmi  bhindyat  na  maj/no 
nirdhayet  \  sanam  enam  samadaya  idam  idam  pra  pesayet  \  26.  Svargam  lokam 
ainute  yo  'jam  panchaudanam  dajeshinajyotisham  dadatt).  These  passages,  in  which 
the  departed  are  said  to  recover  their  bodily  organization  in  all  its  completeness,  form 
a  striking  contrast  to  the  representations  in  the  Homeric  poems  regarding  the  un- 
substantial nature  of  the  ghosts  of  the  departed.  The  passage  of  the  Odyssey,  xi. 
488,  is  well  known,  in  which  Achilles  tells  Ulysses  that  he  would  rather  be  the  slave 
of  a  poor  man  on  earth  than  rule  over  all  the  departed.  I  find,  however,  the  fol- 
lowing remarks  of  Professor  Weber  (Ind.  Stud.  ii.  206,)  on  the  words  yatha  svapne 
tatha  pitriloke,  "  as  in  a  dream  so  in  the  world  of  the  Fathers,"  Katha  Upanishad, 
vi.  S.  "  This  is  evidently  a  popular  conception,  according  to  which  the  souls  of  the 
Fathers,  like  those  in  the  Grecian  Hades,  experience  no  waking,  but  only  a  kiad  of 
dreamy  life.  I  have  as  yet  found  this  idea  (which  at  a  later  period  entirely  dis- 
appears) only  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiL  9,  2,  2,  where  the  following  ex- 
planation of  Vaj.  Sanh,  20,  16 :  yadijagrad  yadi  svapne  enamsi  ehakrima  vayam  [if 
we  have  committed  sins,  sleeping  or  waking]  is  given ;  manmhyah  vai  jagaritam, 
pitarah  .siiptam  \  manmhya-kilvishaeJi  cha  enam  pitrikilvishach  munchaii  \  ['  Men 
are  what  is  awake ;  the  Fathers  what  is  asleep.  He  frees  him  from  the  sins  of 
men,  and  those  of  the  Fathers.']  " 

139  In  regard  to  the  celestial  body,  see  Eoth,  in  the  Journal  of  the  American  Orien- 
tal Society,  vol.  iii.,  p.  343. 

20 


306     FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC. 

syama  \  "Do  thou  conduct  us  to  heaven;  let  us  be  with  our  wives"" 
and  children.!*' 

VI.  120,  3 :  Yatra  suhdrdah  suhrito  madanti  viMya  rogam  tam&h 
svdydh  I  aUonah  angair  ahrutdh,  svarge  tatra  paiyema  pitarau  eha 
putrdn  I  "In  heaven,  where  our  virtuous  friends  enjoy  blessedness, 
having  left  behind  the  infirmities  of  their  bodies,  free  from  lameness  or 
distortion  of  their  limbs,  may  we  behold  our  parents  and  our  children." 
(Compare  A.V.  iii.  28,  5  f.) 

ix.  5,  27  :  Yd  purvam  patim  vittvd  athdnyam  vindate  patim  \  panch- 
auianam  cha  tdv  a/am  daddto  na  vi  yoshatah  \  28.  Samdnahlco  bhavati 
punarbhuvd  'parah  patih  \  yo  'jam  panehaudanam  dakshinajyotiahani 
daddti  I  "When  a  woman  has  had  one  husband  before,  and  gets 
another,  if  they  present  the  aja  panohaudana  offering,  they  shall  not 
be  separated.  28.  A  second  husband  dwells  in  the  same  world  with 
his  re- wedded  wife,  if  he  offers  the  aja  panchaudana,  etc." 

xviii.  2,  23 :  Svdn  gaohhatu  te  manah  adha  pitrin  upa  drma  \  "  Let 
thy  soul  (manas)  go  to  its  own ;  and  hasten  to  the  fathers." 

The  enjoyments  of  this  future  state  are  said,  in  E.V.  ix.  113,  7ff., 
to  be  conferred  by  the  god  Soma,  and  are  described  as  foUows  : 

7.  Yatra  jyotir  ajasraih  yasmin  lake  svar  hitam  \  tasmin  mam  dhehi 
pavamdna  amrite  lake  akshaye  Indrdyendo  parurava  \  8.  Yatra  raja 
Vaivasvato  yatrdvarodhana^  divah  \  yatrdmur  yahiatir  dpas  tatra  mdm 
amritam  Jcridhi  |  9.  Yatrdnukdmam  charanam  trindke  iridive  divalf  | 
lokah  yatra  jyotishmantas  tatra  mdm  amritaM  kridhi  \  10.  Yatra 
kdmdh  nihdmds  oha  yatra  bradhnasya  vMtapam  |  svadhd  cha  yatra  tri- 
ptis  eha  tatra  mdm  amritam  kridhi  \  11.  Yatrdwmddi  cha  moddS  mudah 
pramudah  dsate  \  kdmasya  yatrdptdh  kdmds  tatra  mdm  amritam  kridhi  \ 

7.  "Place  me,  o  purified  (Soma),  in  that  imperishable  and  un- 
changing world,  where  perpetual  light  and  glory  are  found.  8.  Make 
me  immortal  (in  the  realm)  where  king  Vaivasvata  (Yama)  dwells, 
where  the  sanctuary  of  the  sky  exists,  and  those  great  waters  (flow). 
9.  Make  me  immortal  in  the  third  heaven,  in  the  third  sky,  where 
action  is  unrestrained,"^  and  the  regions  are  luminous.     10.  Make  me 

""  In  the  later  Indian  writings  the  widow  who  burns  herself  on  her  husband's 
fiineral  pile  is  supposed  to  rejoin  him  in  Svarga.  See  the  texts  cited  by  Colebrooke, 
Essays,  i.  116  f. 

161  i<  In  heaven  he  acts  according  to  his  pleasure "  (hamacharo  'sya  svarge  hie 
-Taitt.  Br.  iu.  12,  2,  9. 


rURTHEE  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC.     307 

immortal  in  tte  -world  where  there  are  pleasures  and  enjoyments, — in 
the  sphere  of  the  sun, — where  ambrosia  and  satisfaction %ire  found.  11. 
Make  me  immortal  in  the  world  where  there  are  joys,  and  delights, 
and  pleasures,  and  gratifications ;  where  the  objects  of  desire  are 
attained." 

The  pleasures  here  referred  to  are  most  probably  to  be  understood  as 
of  a  sensual  kind.""  Such  at  least  is  the  prospect  held  out  in  the 
following  passage  of  the  Atharva-veda,  iv.  34,  2  :  ^ 

A.V.  iv,  34,  2.  Anasthdh  put&h  pavanena  iuddhdh  iuchayah  iuohim 
api  yanti  lokam  \  naishdm  iisnam  pradakati  jatameddh  svwrge  lolce  lahu 
strainam  eshdm  \  3.  Vuhtdrinam  odanam  ye  pachanti  naindn  oivmrtih 
saehate  haddchana  \  dste  Yame  wpa  ydti  devdn  sam  gandhwvair  madate 
somyebhih  \  4.  Vishtarinam  odanam  ye  pachanti  naindn  Yamah  pari 
mushndti  retah  \  rathl  ha  bhutvd  rathaydne  lyate  pdkshl  ha  Ihutvd  'ti 
divah  sameti  |  "  Boneless, *°*  pure,  cleansed  by  the  wind,  shining,  they 

*5«  Roth  is,  however,  of  a  different  opinion.  He  says  (Joum.  Amer.  Orient.  See. 
iii.  343) :  "  The  place  where  these  glorified  ones  are  to  live  is  heaven.  In  order  to 
show  that  not  merely  an  outer  court  of  the  divine  dwellings  is  set  apart  for  them,  the 
highest  heaven,  the  midst  or  innermost  part  of  heaven,  is  expressly  spoken  of  as  their 
seat.  This  is  their  place  of  rest ;  and  its  divine  splendour  is  not  disfigured  by  any 
specification  of  particular  beauties  or  enjoyments,  such  as  those  with  which  other  re- 
ligions have  been  wont  to  adorn  the  mansions  of  the  blest ....  There  they  are 
happy:  the  language  used  to  describe  their  condition  is  the  same  with  which  is 
denoted  the  most  exalted  felicity."  He  then  quotes  the  verses  of  ix.  113,  7ff. 
already  adduced,  and  adds :  "  what ....  shall  be  the  employment  of  the  blest,  in 
what  sphere  their  activity  shall  expend  itself;  to  this  question  ancient  Hindu  wisdom 
sought  no  answer.  The  words  used  in  verse  11  of  hymn  ix.  113  to  denote  the  grati- 
fications of  paradise,  viz  :  anandah,  modah,  pramudah,  are  employed  in  the  Taittiriya 
Brahmana,  ii.  4,  6,  5  f.,  to  signify  sexual  enjoyment  on  earth  {prajapatih  striymh 
yaso  mushkayor  adadhat  sapam  |  kamasya  triptim  antmdam  tasyagne  bhSjayeha  ma  | 
modah  pramodah  anando  mushkayor  nihitali  sapali  \  sritmva  kamasya  tripyani 
dakshinanam  pratigrahe) . 

*'3  Compare  S'atap.  Br.  x.  4,  4,  4.  Yad  u  ha  vai  evamvit  tapas  tapyate  a  maithu- 
«St  sarvam  ha  asya  tat  svargam  lokam  abhtsambkavati  |  "When  a  man,  knowing 
this,  practises  austere  fervour,  he  retains  in  heaven  all  his  functions,  even  to  that  of 
sexual  intercourse." 

*"  Though  the  connection  is  merely  verbal,  I  quote  here  a  passage  from  the  Taitt. 
Sanh,  vi.  p.  10,  of  India  Office  MS.,  No.  1702  :  Brahmavadino  vadanti  kasmat  aatyad 
anasthikena  praj'ah  pravJyante '  sthanvatir  jayante  iti  |  yad  hiranyam  ghrite  'vadhSya 
j'uhoti  iasmad  anasthikena  prajah  pramyante  'sthanvatlr  jayante  |  "  Those  versed  in 
sacred  science  ask  on  what  principle  it  is  that  creatures  are  generated  by  a  boneless 
substance,  and  yet  are  bom  with  bones  ?  It  is  because  the  sacrifioer  places  gold  in 
the  fire  when  he  casts  into  it  his  oblation,  that  creatures  propagated  by  a  boneless 
substance  are  bom  with  bones." 


308     FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC. 

go  to  a  Bhining  regioa;  Agni**"  does  not  consume  their  generative 
organ ;  in  the  dcelestial  sphere  they  have  abundance  of  sexual  gratifi- 
cation/*' 3.  Want  never  comes  upon  those  who  cook  the  vishtarin 
oblation.  (Such  a  man)  abides  with  Tama,  goes  to  the  gods,  and  lives 
in  blessedness  with  the  Gandharvas,  the  quaffers  of  soma.  4.  Tama 
does  not  steal  away  the  generative  power  of  those  who  cook  the  vish- 
tarin oblation.  (Such  a  man)  becomes  lord  of  a  chariot  on  which  he 
is  borne  along ;  becoming  winged,  he  soars  beyond  the  sky."  In  that 
region  the  faithful  are  also  promised  ponds  filled  with  clarifi.ed  butter, 
honey,  wine,  milk,  and  curds  (verse  6).^" 

It  is  clear,  in  fact,  that  in  the  Vedic  age  the  gods  themselves  were 
not  regarded  as  possessing  a  purely  spiritual  nature,  but  as  subject  to 
the  influence  of  various  sensual  appetites.  We  have  formerly  seen  how 
constantly  they  are  represented  as  delighting  in  the  soma-juice,  and  in 
the  exhilaration  which  it  produced.  Tama  is  described  as  carousing 
with  the  gods  (E.Y.  x.  135,  1),  the  Adityas  as  eating  honey  (A.V. 

*6s  This,  no  douM,  alludes  to  the  fire  of  the  funeral  pile. 

<68  Compare  Mahabharata,  xii.  3657  :  Yarapsarah-sahasrani  suram  ayodha^ 
hatam  \  tvaramana  'bhidhavanti  "  mama  iharta  bhaved"  iti  \  "  Thousands  of  hand- 
some Apsarases  run  up  in  haste  to  the  hero  who  has  been  slain  in  battle  (exclaiming) 
'  he  my  husband.'  "  And  again,  v.  3667 ;  Abhirmmm  ime  lolcah  bhaavawto  hanta 
pasyata  \  purnah  gandharvaJeanyabhih  sarva&ama-duho  'kshayah  |  "  Behold,  these 
shining  worlds  belong  to  the  fearless,  filled  with  maidens  of  the  Gandharvas,  and 
yielding  all  kinds  of  enjoyments."  In  like  manner,  the  Katha  TJpanishad,  i.  25, 
refers  to  the  Apsarases :  Te  ye  Tcamah  durlabhnh  martya-loke  sarvan  kamamS 
chhandatah  prarthayasva  \  imah  ramah  sarat/tah  saturyah  na  hi  idriaah  lambhanl- 
yah  manushyaih  \  aihir  mat-prattabhih  parieharayama  \  "  Ask  at  thy  will,  says 
Tama  to  Nachiketas,  all  those  pleasures  which  are  difficult  to  be  had  in  the  world  of 
mortals,  those  fair  ones  with  their  ears  and  instruments  of  music,—  for  such  as  they 
are  not  to  be  obtained  by  men ;  receive  them  from  me,  and  allow  thyself  to  he 
waited  on  by  them."  (The  brief  germ  of  this  fine  Upanishad,  I  may  remark, — 
though  the  fact  had  been  before  noted  by  Professor  "Weber, — is  to  be  found  in  the 
Taitt.  Br.  iii.  11,  8,  1-6).  See  also  the  Kaushitak!  Upanishad,  as  translated  by 
Weber,  Ind.  Stud.  i.  398,  and  Cowell,  Bibliotheca  Ind.  p.  147. 

*6'  See  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  7, 1,  32  ff.  ( =Brih.  Arany.  Up.  pp.  817  ff.),  where  it  is 
said  that  the  enjoyments  of  the  Fathers  are  a  hundred  times  greater  than  those  of  a 
man  who  lives  in  perfect  prosperity,  is  the  lord  of  others,  and  enjoys  all  human 
pleasures  (sa  yo  manushyanam  raddhalt  samriddho  bhavati  amyeshmn  adhipatih  sar- 
vair  manushyakaih  kamaih  sampannatamah  sa  manushyamm  paramah  anandali  \ 
33.  AthM  ye  satam  manmhyarmm  ancmdah  sa  pitrmam  ekah  anandah).  In  the 
same  way,  the  enjoyments  of  the  Karmadevas,  those  beings  who  have  attained  the 
rank  of  gods  by  their  merits,  are  a  hundred  times  greater  than  those  of  the  Fathers, 
and  again  the  enjoyments  of  the  gods  by  nature  Ifljanadevali)  are  a  hundred  times 
greater  than  those  of  the  Karmadevas,  etc. 


FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC.     309 

xviii.  4,  3),  and  the  Fathers  as  indulging  in  festivity  or  revelry 
{sadhamadam  madanti)  with  Tama  (E.V.  x.  14,  10  :,  compare  A.V. 
xviii.  4,  10).  Indra  is  said  in.  E.V.  iii.  53,  6  (see  above,  p.  81  f.)  to 
have  a  handsome  wife,  and  pleasure,  in  his  house.  In  two  verses  of 
the  A.V.  xiv.  2,  31  f.,  the  young  bride  is  encouraged  to  ascend  the 
nuptial  couch,  and  become  the  mother  of  children,  by  the  consider- 
ation that  the  gods  had  been  the  first  to  enter  into  the  married 
state  and  indulge  in  carnal  intercourse  with  their  spouses  (a  roha 
talpam  sumanasyamand  iha  praj'dm  janaya  patye  asmai  |  32,  Devah 
ogre  samapadyanta  patnlh  samasprisanta  tamas  tanuhhih).  In  A.V.  iv. 
37,  11  f.,  the  Gandharvas,  a  class  of  gods,  who  are  described  as  hairy, 
like  dogs  and  monkeys,  but  as  assuming  a  handsome  appearance  to 
seduce  the  affections  of  earthly  females,  are  called  upon  to  desist  from 
this  unbecoming  practice,  and  not  to  interfere  with  mortals,  as  they 
had  wives  of  their  own,  the  Apsarases  {priyo  driie  iva  hhutva  gandhar- 
vah  saohate  striyam,  \  tarn  ito  naiayamasi  irahmana  virydvata  \  12. 
Jayah  id  vo  apsarasah  gandharmh  patayo  yuyam  \  apa  dhavata  amar- 
tyah  martyan  ma  mohadhvam).  Compare  verses  2—4  and  7  of  the  same 
hymn  and  A.V.  xiv.  2,  35).  If  even  the  gods  were  imagined  by  the 
authors  of  these  hymns  to  have  such  a  decided  element  of  carnality  in 
their  nature,  it  is  scarcely  to  be  supposed  that  these  same  poets,  or 
their  contemporaries,  or  immediate  predecessors,  should  have  risen  to 
the  conception  of  a  purely  spiritual  heaven  as  the  reward  of  a  virtuous 
life  upon  earth.*** 

In  one  passage  of  the  A.V.  iii.  29,  3,  immunity  from  taxation  seems  to 

*68  It  may  be  objected  that  the  texts  which  I  have  cited  from  the  A.V.  furnish  no 
proof  of  the  meaning  of  those  in  the  Rig-veda,  as  the  former  collection  is  of  later 
date  than  the  latter.  Bnt  (1)  the  hymns  of  the  A.V.  are  probably  not  much  posterior 
to  those  of  the  ninth  and  tenth  boots  of  the  R.V.,  with  which  I  have  been  dealing  ; 
and  (2)  the  state  of  opinion  reflected  in  the  texts  of  the  A.V.  need  not  be  supposed 
to  have  originated  contemporaneously  with  its  expression  in  these  particular  hynms, 
but  was  probably  handed  down  from  a  previous  period.  We  ought  not  to  be  too 
incredulous  as  to  the  early  existence,  in  an  elementary  form,  of  ideas  which  appear  at 
first  sight  to  bear  the  character  of  a  later  age.  Thus  we  find  in  the  A.V.  x.  8,  43,  a 
reference  to  three  qualities  {^gunas)  as  enveloping  the  lotus  with  nine  gates  (ptmda- 
rlkcm  navadvaram  tribhir  gunehhir  mritam),  and  there  is  perhaps  no  reason  to 
doubt  that  here  the  three  gunaa,  so  well  known  in  later  cosmogonies,  are  referred  to. 
Saj'as  and  tamas,  two  of  these  qualities,  are  mentioned  together,  A.V.  viii.  2,  1  (rajas 
tamo  md  upagah).  The  "name"  and  "form"  (noma  and  rupa)  celebrated  by  the 
Vedantists,  are  also  alluded  to  in  A.V.  x.  2,  12,  and  xi.  7,  1  (uchhishte  noma 
rupam  eha). 


310     FUETHEE  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC. 

be  held  out  as  a  boon  to  be  anticipated  in  the  next  world.  It  is  there 
said  that  the  offerer  of  a  black-footed  sheep  "  ascends  to  the  sky  where 
no  tribute  is  paid  by  the  weak  to  the  stronger  "  (yo  dadati  iitipadam 
avim  hlcma  sammitam  \  sa  nakam  abhyarohati  yatra  iuEo  [^ulkah  f]  na 
hriyate  abalena  haliyase),  and  in  verse  5  it  is  promised  that  a  person 
of  the  same  description  shall  "  live  for  ever  in  the  sun  and  moon  " 
{praddtd  upa  j'lvati  surya-mdsayor  dkshitam). 

The  virtues  for  which  men  are  admitted  to  the  realms  of  the  blessed 
are  thus  described  in  hymn  154  of  the  tenth  book  of  the  E.V.  1.  Somah 
ekelhyah  paoate  ghritam  eke  v/pasate  \  yebhyo  madhu  pradhdvati  tdmi 
chid  evdpi  gachhatdt  \  2.  Tapasd  ye  anddhrishyds  tapasd  ye  svar  yayuh  \ 
tapo  ye  chakrire  mahas  tdmi  chid — |  3.  Ye  yudhycmte  pradhaneslm  surdso 
ye  tanutyafah  ]  ye  vd  sahasradaksMnds  tdn — |  4.  Te  chit  purve  ritasdpah 
ritdvdnah  ritdvridha^  \  pitrm  tapasvato  Yama  tdn — |  5.  Sahasramthah 
kmwyo  ye  gopdyanti  suryam  \  rishin  tapamato  Yama  tapojdn  api  gachh- 
atdt I  "  Soma  is  purified  for  some ;  others  seek  after  clarified  butter. 
Let  him  (the  deceased)  depart  to  those  for  whom  the  honied  beverage 
flows.  2.  Let  him  depart  to  those  who,  through  rigorous  abstraction 
[tapas),  are  invincible,  who,  through  tapas,  have  gone  to  heaven;  to 
those  who  have  performed  great  tapas.  3.  Let  him  depart  to  the 
combatants  in  battles,  to  the  heroes  who  have  there  sacrificed  their 
lives,  or  to  those  who  have  bestowed  thousands  of  largesses.  4'.  Let 
him  depart,  Tama,  to  those  austere  ancient  Pathers  who  have  practised 
and  promoted  sacred  rites.  5.  Let  him  depart,  Yama,  to  those  austere 
rishis,  born  of  rigorous  abstraction,  to  those  sages,  skilled  in  a  thousand 
sciences,  who  guard  the  sun."  *"    (Compare  A.V.  six.  43,  1  ff.) 

K.V.  i.  125,  5,  and  x.  107,  2,  which  have  been  already  quoted 
above,  p.  285,  also  proclaim  the  rewards  of  liberality,  a  virtue  which 
the  Brahmans,  who  are  its  object,  have  always  been  forward  to  extol. 
(Compare  also  verse  8  of  the  hymn  last  referred  to.) 

The  Fathers  who  have  attained  to  the  heavenly  state  are  described 
as  being  objects  of  adoration  to  their  descendants.  They  are  said  to  be 
of  different  classes,  upper,  intermediate,  and  lower,  or  those  who  inhabit 
the  heaven  (or  sky),  the  air,  and  the  earth  (E.V.  x.  15,  1 ;  A.V.  xviii. 
2,  49),  while  in  the  verse  preceding  the  one  last  quoted  (A.V.  xviii.  2, 

*6»  These  verses  form  part  of  the  fiineral  liturgy  of  the  Brahmans.    See  MiUler,  on 
the  funeral  rites  of  the  Brahmans,  p,  xi. 


FUETHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OP  PARADISE,  ETC.  311 

48),  we  are  told  that  there  are  three  heavens,  of  which  the  Fathers 
occupy  the  third  or  highest.  Their  different  races  are  mentioned  hy 
name,  viz.,  Angirases,  Yairupas,  Navagvas,  Atharvans,  Bhrigus,  Vas- 
ishthas,  etc.  (E.V.  x.  14,  4-6 ;  x.  15,  8).  Though  not  all  known  to 
their  worshippers,  they  are  known  to  Agni  (x.  15,  13).  Their  de- 
scendants offer  them  worship  and  oblations  (x.  15,  2,  9),  supplicate 
their  good  wUl  (x.  14,  6),  deprecate  their  wrath  on  account  of  any 
offences  which  may  have  been  committed  against  them  (x.  15,  6), 
entreat  them  to  hear,  intercede  for,  and  protect  their  votaries  (x.  15,  6), 
and  to  bestow  upon  them  opulence,  long  life,  and  offspring,  (x. 
15,  7,  11;  A.Y.  xviii.  3,  14:  Parayata  pitarah  a  eha  yata  ayam  vo 
yajno  madhuna  samaJctah  \  datto  asmabhyam  dravineha  hhadram  rayirh 
cha  nah  sarvavlraih  dadhdta ;  xviii.  4,  62 :  Ayur  asmabhyaih  dadhatah- 
prajam  cha  rdyai  cha  poshair  abhi  nah  sachadhvam).  They  are  re- 
presented as  thirsting  for  the  libations  prepared  for  them  on  earth 
(x.  15,  9)  ;  and  they  are  invited  to  come  with  Tama,  his  father 
Vivasvat,  and  Agni,  and  feast  with  avidity,  and  to  their  hearts' 
content,  on  the  sacrificial  food  (x.  14,  4,  5  ;  x.  15,  9).  They  ac- 
cordingly arrive  in  thousands,  borne  on  the  same  car  with  Indra 
and  the  other  gods,  and  range  themselves  in  order  on  the  sacrificial 
ground  (x.  15,  10,  11).*'°  "Wonderful  powers  are  ascribed  to  them, 
as  in  Agni  is  prayed  (A.V.  xviii.  2,  28),  to  blow  away  the  evil  spirits 
who  intrude  into  their  hallowed  society  in  the  guise  of  friends.  In 
E.V.  X.  68,  11,  it  is  said  that  "the  Fathers  have  adorned  the  sky 
with  stars,  as  a  dark  horse  with  golden  ornaments,  and  have  placed 
darkness  in  the  night,  and  light  in  the  day"  {alU  iyavaih,  na  krUane- 
hhir  akvaih  nakshatrelhih  pitaro  dyam  apimsan). 

With  these  ideas  compare  those  entertained  by  the  Eomans  about 
the  Manep  (see  Smith's  Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Eoman  Biography 
and  Mythology,  s.v.),  and  the  opinions  of  the  unreformed  Christian 
Churches  about  the  powers  and  prerogatives  of  the  saints. 

The  following  texts  refer  indistinctly  to  some  punishment  (whether 
annihilation  or  some  penal  infliction)  of  the  wicked : 

E.V.  iv.  5,  5 :  Ahhrataro  na  yoshano  vyantah  patiripo  na  janayo 
dwrevah  \  papasah  santo  anritah  asatyah  idam  padam  qfanata  gdbhlram  \ 

*">  Compare,  on  the  offerings  to  the  Pitris,  Colebrooke's  Essay  on  the  Religious 
Ceremonies  of  the  Hindus.    Mis.  Essays,  i.  180  ff. 


312     FTJETHEE  QUOTATIOJiTS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC. 

"  This  deep  abyss  has  been  produced  (for  those  who),  being  sinners, 
false,  untrue,  go  about  like  women  without  brothers,  like  wicked 
females  hostile  to  their  husbands." 

E.V.  vii.  104,  3 :  Ini/r&mma  dmhkrito  vmre  antar  andrambhane 
tamasi  pravidhyatam  \  yatha  natali  punar  ekaichanodayad  ityddi  \  17. 
Fra  yd  jigdti  Tchargahva  naktam  upa  druhd  tanvafii  guhamdnd  vavrdn 
anantdn  am  sd  padishta  ityddi  \  "Indra  and  Soma,  dash  those  mali- 
cious (Eakshases)  into  the  abyss,  into  bottomless  darkness,  so  that  not 
even  one  of  them  may  get  out,"  etc.  17.  "May  that  injurious  Eak- 
shasl,  who  goes  about  at  night  like  an  owl,  concealing  herself,  fall 
into  the  bottomless  abysses." 

But  these  last  texts  form  part  of  a  hymn  which  refers  to  evil  spirits. 

E.V.  ix.  73,  8 :  Fidvdn  sa  vihd  bhiwand  'bhi  pasyati  majushtdn 
vidhyati  ha/rU  avratdn  |  "  Knowing,  he  (Soma)  beholds  all  worlds  ; 
he  hurls  the  hated  and  irreligious  into  the  abyss  "  (Jca/rte). 

In  X.  152,  4,  Indra  is  prayed  to  consign  to  the  lower  darkness  the 
man  who  injures  his  worshipper  {yo  asmdn  abhi  ddsati  adharam 
gamayd  tamal} :  compare  A.V.  i.  21,  2);  and  in  A.V.  viii.  2,  24,  the 
nethermost  darkness  is  mentioned  {na  vai  tatra  mriyante  no  yanti 
adhamam  tamah),  "  They  do  not  die  there,  nor  go  to  the  nethermost 
darkness."  See  also  A.v.  ix.  2,  4,  9,  10,  and  17;  x.  3,  9  ;  xii.  3,  49; 
xiii.  1,  32,  where  similar  phrases  occur  (associated  in  one  place,  x.  3,  9, 
with  asurttam  rajas,  the  distant  (?)  atmosphere);  and  E.V.  x.  103,  12, 
and  A.V.  xviii.  3,  3,  where  the  expression  andham  tamas,  "  blind  dark- 
ness," is  found.*"  But  it  is  not  clear  that  in  these  passages  the  words 
denote  a  place  of  punishment.  In  A.V.  v.  30,  11,  it  is  said  to  a  sick 
man  :  udehi  mrityor  gambhirdt  hrishndch  chit  tamasas  pari  \  "  Else  up 
from  deep  death,  even  from  the  black  darkness."  In  A.V;  viii.  1,  10, 
tamas  is  used  by  itself,  apparently  for  the  state  of  the  dead ;  and  in 
A.V.  viii.  2,  2,  "the  light  of  the  living"  {jivatdm  jyotih)  is  mentioned. 
In  the  preceding  verse,  1,  ry'as  and  tamas  are  joined :  "do  not  depart 
to  the  atmosphere  and  darkness "  (^rqjas  tamo  mopagdl^  md  pra  mesh- 
thdh).  In  A.V,  xii.  4,  36,  however,  the  adjective  form  of  the  ordinary 
word  for  hell  {ndraha  loha)  occurs;  and  that  region  is  threatened  as 
the  future  abode  of  the  man  whose  offence  is  there  specified  {athdJiwr 
ndrakam  loJcam  nvrundhdnasya  ydchitdm). 

*''  Manu,  viii.  94,  conneots  andham  tamas  mth  hell,  saying  that  a  lying  witness 
goes  to  hell  in  "  blind  darkness." 


PTJRTHEE  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PAEADISE,  ETC.     313 

In  the  following  passages  of  the  Mahabharata  (xii.  6969  f.)  hell  and 
darkness  (_tamas)  are  identified :  Anritarh  tamaso  rupa0i  tamasd  nlyate 
hy  oAhal),  \  tamo-grastdh  na  paiyanti  praMSam  tamasa  vritdh  \  6970. 
SvoTffah praMM  ity  ahur  nardkam  tamah  eva  cha  |  "Falsehood  is  the 
embodiment  of  darkness  {tamas)  :  by  darkness  a  man  is  carried  down- 
wards. Those  who  are  seized  by  darkness,  being  enveloped  in  dark- 
ness, do  not  see  the  light.  Heaven  they  say  is  light  (prakdsa),  and 
heU  is  darkness  {tamas)."  *" 

In  one  of  the  passages  which  have  been  quoted  above  (x.  16,  4)  the 
"  unborn  part "  of  man  is  spoken  of  as  being  conveyed  by  Agni  to 
"  the  world  of  the  righteous."  It  wUl  be  observed  that  the  word  here 
employed  is  different  from  atman,  the  term  which  at  a  later  period  was 
invariably  used  to  denote  the  immaterial  soul ;  and  that  this  same 
word  dtman  occurs  in  the  preceding  verse  in  the  sense  of  breath,  as  we 
must  infer  from  the  fact  of  its  being  bidden  to  mingle  with  the  wind, 
the  element  to  which  it  is  akin.  In  some  other  passages  of  the  Eig- 
veda  we  find  the  word  manas  employed  for  the  soul,  or  the  living 
principle  which  exists  after  death.  Thus  in  x.  58,  1,  it  is  said :  Yat 
te  Yamam  Vaivasvatam  mano  jdgdma  durakam  \  tat  te  dvarttayaman 
iha  hshaydya  jivase  \  "Thy  soul,  which  has  gone  afar  to  Tama  Vaivas- 
vata,  we  bring  back  hither  to  dwell  and  to  live."  In  the  verses  which 
follow,  the  soul  is  said  to  be  brought  back  from  a  great  many  other 
places,  the  heaven,  the  earth,  the  four  quarters  of  the  sky,  the  ocean, 
the  waters,  the  planets,  the  sun,  the  dawn,  the  past,  the  future,  etc. 
And  again  in  x.  60,  10,  we  find  the  same  word  employed:  Yamad 
aham  Vawasvatdt  Subandhor  manah  dlharam  \  jwdtave  na  mrityave  atho 
arishtatdtaye  \  "  I  have  brought  the  soul  of  Subandhu  that  it  may  live 
and  not  die,  but  be  secure."  Compare  A.V.  v.  3,  6,  18;  vi.  53,  2; 
viii.  1,  3;  viii.  2,  3;  and  Vaj.  Sanh.  iii.  53-56.  Atman  is,  however, 
used  in  some  parts  of  the  Eig-veda  for  the  animating  principle,  as 
where  the  sun  is  called  the  soul  of  all  things  moving  and  stationary 
(L  115,  1),  or  where  Soma  is  called  the  soul  of  sacrifice  (ix.  2,  10; 
ix.  6,  8),  and  of  Indra  (ix.  85,  3). 

*"  Compare  Vishnu  Purana,  ii.  6,  40  :  "  Heaven  is  that  which  delights  the  mind ; 
hell  is  that  which  gives  it  pain ;  hence,  vice  is  called  hell  ,■  virtue  is  called  heaven  " 
[mantth-priti-karah  svargo  narakaa  tad-viparyayah  \  naraka-svarga-sanjne  vai  papa- 


314  QT70TAT10NS  FROM  LATER  WORKS 

(6)  Quotations  from  later  worh  regarding  afutttre  existence. 

I  BhaR  now  adduce  some  passages  from  other  Indian  works  of  a 
later  date,  such  as  the  S'atapatha  Brabmana,  the  epic  poems,  and  the 
Puranas,  to  show  how  far  the  opinions  which  their  authors  entertained 
coincide  with  those  representations  of  a  future  life  which  I  have  ex- 
tracted from  the  Eig-,  Tajur-,  and  Atharva-vedas. 

In  the  9th  vol.  of  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society 
(pp.  237  ff.)  Professor  Weber  has  communicated  a  legend  from  the 
S'atapatha  Srahmana,  on  penal  retribution  after  death,  to  which  he  has 
prefixed  some  interesting  remarks  on  the  history  of  Indian  opinion 
regarding  the  vanity  of  personal  existence,  and  the  desire  to  escape 
from  the  perpetual  cycle  of  births  to  which  that  opinion  -conducts. 
He  remarks  that,  owing  to  the  fragmentary  nature  of  the  surviving 
documents  of  Indian  literature,  we  are  not  yet  in  a  position  to  trace 
with  any  distinctness  the  rise  and  growth  of  the  doctrine  of  transmi- 
gration; though  he  considers  it  to  admit  of  no  doubt  that  the  tenet  in 
question  was  gradually  developed  in  India  itself,  and  not  introduced  from 
any  foreign  country.  (See  Professor  Benfey's  remarks  on  this  subject 
in  his  Orient  und  Occident,  vol.  iii.  pp.  169  f.)  In  the  hymns  of  the 
Eig-veda,  Prof.  Weber  goes  on  to  observe,  there  is  no  trace  discoverable 
of  the  metempsychosis,  or  of  any  disgust  with  personal  existence.  On 
the  contrary,  they  manifest  a  cheerful  enjoyment  of  life,  and  the  most 
earnest  desire  for  its  prolongation  in  this  world,  as  well  as  its  con- 
tinuation in  the  next.  "  So  too,"  Professor  Weber  proceeds,  "  in  the 
Brahmanas,  immortality,  or  at  least  longevity,  is  promised  to  those 
who  rightly  understand  and  practise  the  rites  of  sacrifice,  while  those 
who  are  deficient  in  this  respect  depart  before  their  natural  term  of 
life  {pur a  ha  ayushah)  *"  to  the  next  world,  where  they  are  weighed 
in  a  balance  (xi.  2,  7,  33)  "^  and  receive  good  or  evil  according  to 

*''  Compare  B.T.  x.  37,  6 :  bhadram  jtvanto  Jaranam  aslmahi ;  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  8, 
3,  6  :  sarvam  ayur  eti  a  ha  majarayai  jwati;  S'aiap.  Br.  X.  4,  3,  1,  where  the  ex- 
pression pmujarasah  is  found;  as  it  is  also  in  R.V.  viii.  66,  20,  and  A.V.  v.  30, 17  ; 
X.  2,  30  ;  li.  3,  56.  Pwra  ha  aymho  mriyate  occurs  in  S'atap.  Br.  ii.  1,  4,  9 :  na 
pura  aymhah  svaimm  preyat  in  x.  2,  6,  7 ;  and  sarvam  aywr  eti  in  x,  2,  6, 19.  See 
also  Taitt.  Sanh.  iii.  2,  1,  2.  Compare  Psalm  It.  24 :  "  Bloody  and  deceitful  men 
shall  not  lire  out  half  their  days ;  "  Psalm  cii.  25,  and  Jeremiah  xvii.  11. 

«*  The  passage  (xi,  2,  7,  33)  to  whioh  Weher  has  referred  runs  as  follows  :  Atha 
ha  enKa  eva  tula  yad  dahshino  veAyamtalt.  |  aa  yat  aadhu  haroti  tad  antarvedi  atha 


EEGAEDING  A  FTTTURE  EXISTENCE.  315 

their  deeds.  The  more  sacrifices  any  one  has  offered,  the  more  ethereal 
is  the  body  he  obtains,  or,  as  the  Erahmana  expresses  it  (x.  1,  5,  4),*" 
the  more  rarely  does  he  need  to  eat.  In  other  passages,  again  (It. 
6,  1,  1  :  xi.  1,  8,  6 ;  xii.  8,  3,  31),*"  it  is  promised  as  the  highest 
reward,  that  the  pious  man  shall  be  born  in  the  next  -world  with  his 
entire  body  {swrvatanur  em  sangah).    Here  the  high  estimation  of 

yad  asadhu  tad  bahirvedi  tasmad  dakshmam  vedytmtam  adhisprUya  iva  asita  |  tula- 
yam  ha  vai  amushmin  lake  adadhati  \  yatarad  yamsyaii  tad  amoeshyati  yadi  sadhu  vS 
asadhu  va  iti  \  atha  yali  evain  vcda  asmin  ha  eva  lake  tulSm  arohati  \  ati  amushmin  lake 
tulSdhanam  muehyate  sadhukritya  ha  eva  asya  yachhati  na  papakritya  \  "  For  in 
the  next  world  they  place  (his  good  and  evil  deeds)  in  a  balance.  Whichever  of 
the  two  shall  outweigh  (the  other),  that  he  shall  follow,  whether  it  be  good  or  evil. 
Now,  whosoever  knows  this  places  himself  in  the  balance  in  this  world,  and  is  freed 
from  being  weighed  in  the  next  world ;  it  is  by  good  deeds  and  not  by  bad  that  (his 
scale)  outweighs." 

*"  X.  1,  6,  4  :  Atha  alo  yajnamryanam  eva  \  sayam  pratar  ha  vai  amushmin  lake 
aynihotra-hud  asnSti  tavatl  ha  tasmin  yajne  urg  ardhamase  ardhamase  dasapurna- 
masa-yaji  chaturshu  ehatwshu  maseshu  ehaturmasya-yajt  shatsu  shatsu  pasuba/ndha- 
yaji  samvatsare  samvatsare  somoyaji  sate  sate  saimatsareshu  agniohit  kamam  asnati 
kamam  na  |  tad  ha  etad  yavat  s'ataih  samvatsaras  tavad  amritam  anantam  aparyan- 
tam  I  sa  yo  ha  etad  evam  veda  evatn  ha  eva  asya  etad  amritam  ana/ntam  aparyantam 
bhavttti  I  tasya  yad  api  ishikaya  iva  upahanyat  tad  eva  asya  amritam  anantam 
aparyantam  bhavati  \  "  Then  as  regards  the  powers  of  the  sacrifices.  In  the  next 
world  the  offerer  of  an  Agnihotra  eats  morning  and  evening.  So  much  nourishment 
resides  in  that  sacrifice.  The  performer  of  the  Dars'apurnamasa  sacrifice  eats  every 
fortnight,  the  performer  of  the  Ghaturmasya  every  four  months,  the  performer  of  the 
Pas'ubandha  every  six  months,  the  off'erer  of  the  Soma  every  year,  whilst  the  kindler 
of  fire  eats  every  hundred  years,  or  abstains  at  his  pleasure.  This  means,  that  during 
this  period  of  a  hundred  years  he  enjoys  an  immortal,  unending,  and  unlimited  life. 
He  who  so  knows  this  enjoys  in  the  same  way  this  immortal,  unending,  and  un- 
limited existence.  Whatever  part  of  him  is  separated,  even  as  if  by  a  straw,  be- 
comes immortal,  unending,  and  unlimited." 

*'^  iv.  6,  1,  1 :  Sa  ha  sarvatanur  eva  yajamano  'mushmin  lake  sambhavati  |  "This 
sacrificer  is  born  with  his  whole  body  [sarvatanuh)  in  the  next  world."  xi.  1,  8,  6 : 
£sha  ha  vai  yajamanasya  amushmin  lake  atma  bhavati  yad  yajnah  \  sa  ha  sarvatanur 
eva  yajamano  amushmin  lake  sambhavati  yaji  evam  vidvan  niskrttyS  yajate  \  "  This 
sacrifice  becomes  in  the  next  world  the  soul  of  the  sacrificer.  The  sacrificer  who,  know- 
ing this,  sacrifices  with  an  expiation,  is  bom  with  his  whole  body  in  the  next  world." 
xii.  8,  3,  31 :  Fra  iva  vai  esha  hkami  cha  devatai  eha  vis'ati  yah  sautramanya  'bhi- 
shichyate  \  tad  etad  avantaram  atmanam  upakvayate  tatha  kritsna^  eva  sarvatanuh 
sanga^  sambhavati  |  "  He  who  is  consecrated  by  the  Sautramani  enters  the  worlds, 
and  among  the  gods.  He  then  ....  and  is  born  entire,  with  his  whole  body  and 
limbs."  In  the  A.Y.  xi.  3,  32,  and  49,  it  is  said  :  ^sha  vai  odanah  sarvangali  sarva- 
pa/ruh  sarvatanuh  \  sarvangah  eva  sarvaparuh  sarvatanuli  sambhavati  yali  evam  veda  | 
"  This  odana  (boiled  rice)  is  complete  in  its  limbs,  joints,  and  body.  He  who  knows 
this  is  born  complete  in  limbs,  joints,  and  body." 


316  QUOTATIONS  PROM  LATER  "WORKS 

individual  existence  culminates,  and  a  purely  personal  immortality  is 
involved.  It  is  evidently  in  connection  with  this  that  the  loss  of  a 
dead  man's  hones  is  regarded  hy  his  friends  as  disgraceful,  as  the 
severest  punishment  of  arrogance  (xi.  6,  3,  11 ;  xiv.  6,  9,  28);"*" 
since,  according  to  the  custom  prescribed  hy  the  Sutras,  the  hones 
should  he  collected  after  cremation. 

[The  following  passage  from  the  same  work  (x.  4,  3,  9,)  is  not  incon- 
sistent with  the  above  view.  According  to  the  story,  the  gods  become 
immortal  without  parting  with  their  bodies ;  and  although  men  were 
not  to  enjoy  immortality  without  "shuffling  off  their  mortal  coil,"  a 
subsequent  resumption  of  their  bodies  in  a  glorified  state  is  not  thereby 
excluded  :  9.  Sa  mrityur  devan  ahravid  "  Atha  eva  sarve  manusJiyah 
amritah  hhavishyanti  atha  ho  mahyam  hhdgo  hhavishyati"  iti  j  te  ha 
■uehur  "  na  atoh  'pa/ral},  hasohana  saha  iarirena  amrito  'sad  yada  eva 
tvam  etam  hhagam  hardsai  \  atha  vydvritya  sarirena  amrito  'sad  vidyaya 
va  Tcarmand  vd"  iti  \  yad  vai  tad  airman  "vidyaya  vd  karmand  vd  " 
iti  I  eshd  ha  eva  sa  vidyd  yad  Agnir  etad  u  ha  eva  tat  karma  yad  Agnih  \ 
10.  Te  ye  evam  etad  viditr  ye  vd  etat  karma  hurvate  mritvd  pimah  sam- 
hha/vanti  \  te  sambhavantah  eva  amritatvam  alhisamlhavanti  \  atha  ye 
evam  na  vidwr  ye  va  etat  karma  na  kurvate  mritva  ptinah  samihavanti  te 
etasya  eva  annam  punah  punar  hhavanti  \ 

"  Death  said  to  the  gods  (who  had  become  immortal  by  performing 
certain  rites),  '  in  the  very  same  way  all  men  (also)  shall  become 
immortal ;  then  what  portion  will  remain  for  me  ? '    The  gods  replied, 


*"  xi.  6,  3,  11 :  8a  ha  maeha  "  anatiprainyam  ma  devatam  atyapralcahVi  pura- 
itithyai  marishyasi  na  te  aathmi  chana  grihan  prapsyanti"  iti  |  sa  ha  tathaiva 
mamara  |  tasya  ha  apy  anyad  manydmSnah  parimoshim  asthlny  apcjfahruh  \  tasmad 
na  upavadi  ayat  \  "  Do  not  scrutmize  too  far  the  deity  which  ought  not  to  he  too  far 
scrutinized.  Thou  shalt  die  before  such  a  time ;  not  even  thy  bones  shall  reach  thy 
home.  So  he  died ;  and  robbers  carried  off  his  bones,  taking  them  for  something 
else.  Wherefore  let  no  man  be  contentious."  xiv.  6,  9,  28  (=Brihad  Aranyaka 
Upanlshad,  iii.  9,  26  ;  p.  210  f.  of  Roer's  English  translation) :  Tarn  tva  aupanisha- 
dam  pwmham  prichKami  tarn  ehed  me  na  vivaJcshyasi  murdhS,  te  vipatishyati  "  iti  | 
tim  ha  S'akalyo  na  mene  \  tasya  ha  murdha  vipapata  |  tasya  ha  apy  anyad  manya- 
manah  parimoshino  asthmy  apajahruh  |  "  I  ask  thee  regarding  this  Purusha  of  the 
TJpanishads.  If  thou  shalt  not  explain  him  to  me,  thy  head  shall  fall  off.  S'akalya 
did  not  understand  this  Purusha.  So  his  head  fell  off;  and  robbers  carried  off  his 
bones,  taking  them  for  something  else."  (Compare  1  Kings  xiii.  22,  and  Jeremiah 
viii.  1,  2).  See  also  the  story  of  Atyamhas  Aruni  and  Plaksha  Dayyampati  ia  Taitt. 
Br.  iii.  10,  9,  3-6. 


EEGAEDING  A  FTTTUEE  EXISTENCE.  317 

'  Henceforward  no  other  being  shall  become  immortal  with  his  body, 
when  thou  shalt  have  seized  that  part  (the  body)/™  Now,  every  one 
who  is  to  become  immortal  through  knowledge,  or  by  work,  shall 
become  immortal  after  parting  with  his  body.'  This  which  they  said, 
'by  knowledge  or  by  work,'  means  that  knowledge  which  is  Agni,  that 
work  which  is  Agni.  10.  Those  who  so  know  this,  or  who  perform 
this  rite,  are  born  again  after  death ;  and  by  being  so  bom,  they 
attain  immortality.  "Whilst  those  who  do  not  so  know,  or  who  do  not 
perform  this  rite,  are  indeed  bom  again  after  death,  but  become  again 
and  again  his  (death's)  food."  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  "Work,  pp. 
48  ff.,  where  this  passage  is  given  with  its  context.] 

Professor  Weber  proceeds  :  "But  whereas,  in  the  oldest  times,  im- 
mortality, in  the  abodes  of  the  blessed,  where  milk  and  honey  flow 
(xi.  5,  6,  4)"°  is  regarded  as  the  reward  of  virtue  or  wisdom,  whilst 
the  sinner  or  the  fool  is,  after  a  short  life,  doomed  to  the  annihilation 
of  his  personal  existence,  the  doctrine  of  the  Brahmanas  is  that  after 
death  all  are  bom  again  in  the  next  world,  where  they  are  recompensed 
according  to  their  deeds,  the  good  being  rewarded,  and  the  wicked 
punished  (vi.  2,  2,  27 ;  x.  6,  3,  1 ;  xi.  7,  2,  23)."  '*» 

*™  It  appears,  however,  from  the  Taitt.  S.  Ti.  (p.  67a  of  the  Indian  Office  MS.), 
that  men  were  also  conceived  of  as  getting  to  heaven  without  dying.  Brahmavadino 
vadanti  "  Mm  tad  yajne  yajamandh  kurute  yenajjvtm  amargam  lokam  eti  "  Hi  \  jiva- 
graho  vai  esha  yad  adahhyo  'nabhishutaaya  grihndti  |  Jivantam  eva  enam  survargam 
loham  gamayati  \  "  Men  versed  in  sacred  science  say  '  What  does  the  sacrificer 
perform  in  the  sacrifice  by  which  he  ascends  to  heaven  alive  ? '  This  adabhya 
Uhation  is  an  offering  of  the  living  [Soma,  i.e.  of  the  plant  nncrushed,  according  to 
BohtUngk  and  Roth,  s.v.  jJvagra/ia]  ;  (the  priest)  offers  this  without  pouring  it  out ; 
and  conveys  the  worshipper  alive  to  heaven." 

*"  xi.  5,  &,  3  f.  (See  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  where  this  passage  is  cited  in  the 

original  with  its  context) ;  "  Study  of  the  Vedas  is  the  Brahma-sacrifice The 

man  who,  knowing  this,  daily  practises  the  study  of  the  Vedas,  conquers  thrice  as 
vast  a  region — and  that,  too,  undecaying — as  the  region  which  he  conquers  who 
bestows  this  whole  earth  filled  with  wealth.  Wherefore  study  of  the  Vedas  is  to  be 
practised,  i.  Verses  of  the  Rik.  are  oblations  of  milk  to  the  gods.  He  who,  knowing 
this,  daily  studies  the  Rig-veda,  does  in  fact  satisfy  the  gods  with  oblations  of  millr ; 
and  they,  when  satisfied,  satisfy  him  with  prosperity,  with  breath,  with  generative 
power,  with  completeness  in  his  being,  with  all  excellent  possessions.  (Compare 
S'atap.  Br.  xi.  6,  7,  6,  and  A.V.  iv.  34,  6,  7.) 

""  vi.  2,  2,  27 :  Tasmad  ahuh  kritam  lokam  purusho  'bhi  jayate  \  "  Hence  they 
say  that  a  man  is  bom  into  the  world  which  he  has  made."  x.  6,  3,  1 :  Atha 
khalu  kratumayo  'yam  purushah  \  sa  yavatkratur  ayam  asmal  hknt  praiti  evam- 
kraitir  ha  amtm  lokam  pretya  abhisambhavati  |  "  Kow  truly  tliis  man  is  composed  of 


318  QUOTATIONS  FEOM  LATER  -WORKS 

[The  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  however,  also  expresses  the  conception  of 
a  higher  state  than  that  of  desire  and  gratification,  in  a  passage  (x.  5, 4, 
15)  where  it  is  said :  15.  So  'st/a  esha  sarvasya  antam  eva  atmd  |  sa  esha 
sarvdsdm  apdm  madhye  \  sa  esha  sarvaih  Mmaih  sampannah  \  dpo  vai  sarve 
kdmdh  I  sa  esha  akdmah  swrvakdmo  na  hy  etam  Tcasyachwna  hdma^  \  16. 
Tad  esha  ihko  ihavafi  "  vidyayd  tad  drohanti  yatra  kdmdh  pardgatdh  | 
na  tatra  dakshindh  yanti  ndvidvdmsai  tapasvinah"  iti  \  na  ha  eva  tarn 
lokam  dakshindbhir  na  tapasd  'nevamvid  ainute  |  evamviddm  ha  eva  sa 
loka^  I 

"  This  soul  is  the  end  of  all  this.  It  abides  in  the  midst  of  all 
the  waters.  It  is  supplied  with  all  objects  of  desire.  For  the  waters 
are  all  the  objects  of  desire.'^'  This  (soul)  is  free  from  desire,  and 
(yet)  possesses  all  the  objects  of  desire,  for  it  desires  nothing.  15.  On 
this  subject  there  is  this  verse :  '  By  knowledge  men  ascend  to  that 
condition  in  which  desires  have  passed  away.  Thither  gifts  do  not 
reach,  nor  austere  devotees  who  are  destitute  of  knowledge.' **'  For  a 
person  who  does  not  possess  this  knowledge  does  not  attain  that  world 
by  gifts  or  by  rigorous  abstraction.  It  pertains  only  to  those  who 
have  such  knowledge."]  ^' 

sacrifice.  So  many  sacrifices  as  he  has  performed  when  he  departs  from  this  world, 
with  so  many  is  he  horn  in  the  other  world  after  his  death." 

481  Compare  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  2,  6:  Apsu  vai  sarve  Ttamali  iritah  \  "In  the 
waters  all  objects  of  desire  are  contained." 

4^^  This  verse  is  quoted  in  S'ankara's  Commentary  on  the  Erahma  Sutras,  pp.  911 
and  952,  of  the  edit,  in  Bibl.  Ind. 

*"  In  another  passage  a  curious  contrast  is  drawn  between  two  different  kinds  of 
sacrificers,  the  atmayajin  and  the  devayajin,  S'atap.  Br.  zi.  2,  6,  13  :  atmayaji 
sreyan  \  devayaji  ity  atmayaji  iti  ha  bruyat  \  sa  ha  vai  atmayaji  yo  veda  "  idam  me 
amena  angam  samskriyate  idam  meanena  angam  upadhiyate"  iti  \  sa  yatha  'his  tvacho 
nirmuohyeta  evam  asmad  martyat  sarlrat  papmano  nirmuchyate  sa  rirmayo  yaju/r- 
mayah  samwmayah  ahutim^ayah  sva/rgam  lokam  ahhi  sambhavati  \  afha  ha  sa  devayaji 
yo  veda  devan  eva  aham  idam  yaje  devan  samarpayami  iti  sa  yatha  sreyase  papjyan 
balim  hared  vailyo  va  rajne  balim  hared  evam  sa  sa  ha  na  tavantam  lokam  jayaii 
yavantam  itarah  |  "  He  who  sacrifices  to  himself  is  superior.  A  man  should  say, 
'  There  is  a  worshipper  who  sacrifices  to  the  gods,'  and  '  another  who  sacrifices  to 
himself.'  He  who  understands  that  by  such  aind  such  [a  rite]  such  and  such  a 
one  of  his  members  is  rectified,  and  that  by  such  and  such  another  rite  such  and  such 
another  of  his  members  is  restored, — he  is  the  person  who  sacrifices  to  himself;  he  is 
freed  from  this  mortal  body,  from  sin  (or  misery),  as  a  serpent  is  freed  fi-om  its  worn- 
out  skin,  and  acquiring  the  nature  of  the  Rik,  Yajush,  and  Saman,  and  of  Sacrifice, 
he  attains  to  heaven.  2.  On  the  other  hand,  he  who  understands  that  with  such  and 
such  an  oblation  he  worships  the  gods,  and  offers  it  up  to  them,  is  like  an  inferior 


EEGAEDING  A  FXJTTJEE  EXISTENCE.  319 

Professor  "W"eber  adds  in  a  note  :  "According  to  a  very  ancient  con- 
ception, the  soul,  after  being  breathed  forth  from  the  body,  ascends  to 
the  abodes  of  the  blessed  on  the  wings  of  the  air,  of  the  wind  (  Epfj,ela<} 
■yfruyfOTrofiirof),*^^  having  itself  been  changed  into  an  aerial  form.  With 
this  is  connected  the  later  idea  of  the  resolution  of  the  senses  of  the 
dying  into  fire,  sun,  moon,  wind,  and  the  regions  of  the  sky  "=  (x.  3,  3, 
8 ;  xiv.  6,  2,  13),  and  the  still  more  modem  and  systematic  notion  of 
their  being  resolved  into  the  five  elements.  In  one  place  (i.  9,  3, 
10)*"°  I  find  the  idea  that  the  rays  of  the  sun  are  themselves  the  pious 

who  presents  tribute  to  a  superior,  or  as  a  Vais'ya  brings  tribute  to  a  king ;  and  he 
does  not  conquer  for  himself  so  great  a  world  as  the  other  does."  Professor  Aufreoht 
inclines  to  think  that  there  is  no  such  difference  between  the  sense  of  atmayajin  here 
and  in  Manu,  xii.  91,  as  is  indicated  in  the  Lexicon  of  Messrs.  Biihtlingk  and  Both, 
and  that  in  the  passage  before  us  atman  must  be  taken  in  the  Vedantic  sense,  and 
the  compound  explained  to  mean  "he  who  sacrifices  in  himself,  that  is,  in  his  own 
individuality,  as  an  integral  part  of  the  universal  soul,"  quoting  Kulluka  on  Manu, 
xii.  91,  in  proof  of  this  sense.  He  also  refers  to  S'atap.  Br.  x.  3,  2,  13  [kim 
ehhandah  ka  devata  unatiriktani  iti  |  nyunahshara  ekhandah  apo  devata  unatiri- 
ktani  |  sa  esha  atmavidya  eva  \  etanmayo  ha  etah  devatah  etam  atmanam  aihiaam- 
bhavttti),  which  I  translate :  "  What  the  metre,  what  deity  are  the  things  which  are 
defective  or  superfluous  ?  The  nyufiaksha/ra  (metre  with  deficient  syllables)  is  the 
metre ;  the  waters  are  the  deity  representing  the  things  which  are  defective  or  super- 
fluous. This  is  the  knowledge  of  soul.  He  who  is  composed  of  this  attains  to  these 
deities,  to  this  soul."  Here  the  knowledge  of  soul  in  the  Vedantic  sense  may 
be  referred  to.  But  in  the  previous  passage  the  atmayajin  is  represented,  not  as 
attaining  to  soul,  but  to  heaven,  a  destination  which  he  who  has  a  knowledge  of  soul 
in  the  Vedantic  sense  no  longer  desires. 

*8«  Compare  A.V.  xviii.  2,  21  f.,  quoted  above. 

*''  X.  3,  3,  8 :  Sa  yada  evameid  asmSl  lokat  praiti  vaeha  eva  Agnim  apyeti  chalcshusha 
Adityam  manasa  Chandram  srotrena  Diiah  pranena  Vayum  \  sa  etanmayah  eva 
bhutva  efasam  devatanam  yam  yam  kamayate  sa  bhutva  ilayati  \  "  Whoever  departs 
from  this  world  knowing  this  goes  vrith  his  voice  to  fire  (Agni),  with  his  eye  to  the  sun 
(Aditya ;  compare  E.V.  x.  16,  3,  quoted  above),  with  his  mind  [mamas)  to  the  moon, 
Vfith  his  ear  to  the  regions,  with  his  breath  [prana)  to  the  wind  (Vayu ;  compare 
R.V.  X.  16,  3).  Having  attained  the  nature  of  these,  and  become  any  one  of  these 
deities  that  he  desires,  he  rests."  xiv.  6,  2, 13  ( =Brih.  Arany.  Up.  p.  542  f.) :  Yatra 
asya  purushasya  mritasya  agnim  vag  apyeti  vatam  pranas  ohakshur  adityam  manai 
chandram  disah  irotram  prithivtm  sariram  akasam  atma  oshadhir  lomani  vaaaapatm 
kesafy  apsti  lohitam  oha  retas'  cha  nidhtyate  kva  ayam  tada  pwusho  bhavati  |  "  When 
the  voice  of  the  departed  soul  goes  to  fire,  his  breath  to  the  wind,  his  eye  to  the  sun, 
his  mind  to  the  moon,  his  hearjng  to  the  regions,  his  body  to  the  earth,  his  soul  to 
the  Eether,  the  hairs  of  his  body  to  the  plants,  the  hairs  of  his  head  to  the  trees,  his 
blood  and  his  seminal  fioid  to  the  waters, — where  then  is  this  spirit  f  " 

**'  i.  9,  3,  10 ;  Ya^  esha  tapati  tasya  ye  rasmayaa  te  sukritah  \  atha  yat  param 
bKdh  Prajapatir  va  svargo  v3  lokah  \  "  The  rays  of  him  who  shines  (the  sun)  are  the 
pious.    The  light  which  is  above  is  Frajapati,  or  the  heavenly  world." 


320  QUOTATIONS  FEOM  LATER  -WOEKS 

{suhritas) ;  and  in  another  (vi.  5,  4,  8)"'  the  conception  that  the  stars 
are  the  lights  of  the  righteous  who  go  to  heaven.  "With  this  the 
similar  statement  in  the  Indralokagamana  may  be  compared." 

The  following  axe  some  other  passages  of  the  Brahmanas  (not  cited 
by  Professor  Weber)  regarding  future  rewards.  In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi. 
6)  2,  2,  3,  it  is  said ;  "  He  who  sacrifices  thus  obtains  perpetual  pros- 
perity and  renown,  and  conquers  for  himself  an  union'*' with  these 
two  gods  {Aditya  and  Agni),  and  an  abode  in  the  same  sphere."  (See 
the  original  passages  with  the  context  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  "Work, 
pp.  426  ff.)  j:n  the  same  work  (ii.  6,  4,  8)  it  is  said  that  those  who 
offer  particular  sacrifices  become  Agni,  Varuna,  or  Indra,  and  attain  to 
union,  and  to  the  same  spheres,  with  those  gods  respectively  {sa  yad 
vaihadevena  yajate  Agnir  eva  tarhi  Ihmaty  Agner  eva  sayujyam  saloh- 
atam  jayati  \  atha  yad  Varumpraghdsair  yajate  Varunah  eva  tarhi 
Ihavati  ityadi).  And  in  the  same  way  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  iii. 
10, 11,  6  f.,  states  that  the  possessors  of  particular  kinds  of  knowledge 
attain  to  union  with  Aditya  (the  Sun),  and  to  union,  and  to  the  same 
spheres,  with  Agni,  with  Vayu,  with  Indra,  with  Brihaspati,  with 
Prajapati,  and  with  Brahma.  In  the  same  work,  iii.  10,  9,  11,  men- 
tion is  made  of  a  certain  sage  who,  through  his  knowledge,  became  a 
golden  swan,  went  to  heaven,  and  attained  to  union  with  the  sun 
(^AMno  Jia  AsvattJiyah  savitram  vidanehalcara  |  11.  Sa  ha  hamso  hiran- 
mayo  bhutva  svargam  lokam  iyaya  adityasya  sayujyam).     The  S'atap. 

*^  vi.  6,  4,  8  :  Ye  hi  janah  punyakritdh  svargam  lokam  yanti  Usham  etani  jyo- 
tmshi  I  "  These  (the  stars)  are  the  lights  of  the  practisers  of  holy  acts  who  go  to 
heayen."  The  passage  of  the  Indralokagamana  (Mhh.  iii.  1745  ff.),  referred  to  by  Pro- 
fessor Weber,  is  as  follows :  Na  tatra  suryali  soma  m  dyotate  naoJia  pavakah  \  1746. 
Sva/yaiva  prabhaya  tatra  dyotante  punyalabdhaya  \  iararupani  yarilha  drisyante 
dyutimanti  vai  \  1747.  DTpavad  viprakrishtatvat  tanuni  sumahanty  api  \  tani  tatra 
praihasvanti  rupavanti  eha  Pandavah  \  1748.  Dadarsa  sveshu  dhishnyeahu  dipavanti 
svaya  'rchisha  |  tatra  rajarshayah  siddhah  vlraieha  nihatah  yudhi  |  1751.  Mte 
aukritinah  partha  sveshu  dhishnyeshv  avasthitah  \  1752.  Yan  driahtavan  asi  vibho 
tararupani  bhutale  |  "  The  sun  shines  not  there  (in  Indra's  heaven),  nor  the  moon, 
nor  fire.  There  the  righteous  shine  by  their  own  light,  acquired  by  their  own  virtue. 
Aijuna  beheld  there,  shining  in  their  own  spheres,  luminous  and  beautiful,  those 
bright  forms  of  the  star.s  which,  when  seen  from  the_  earth,  appear  from  distance  to 
be  as  small  as  lamps,  although  they  are  very  vast."  "  These,"  as  Arjuna's  conductor 
explained  to  him,.  "  were  the  righteous  occupying  their  own  spheres,  whom,  when  on 
earth,  he  had  seen  in  the  sky  in  the  form  of  stars." 

4«8  The  word  sayujya,  "  close  union,"  here  used,  seems  to  prepare  the  way  for  laya 
and  mukti,  "dissolution,"  or  "absorption,"  into  the  supreme  spiiit. 


EEGAEDING  A  FUTTTEE  EXISTENCE.  321 

Br.  jd.  4,  4,  1,  also  speaks  of  imion  with  Brahma :  Shad,  vai  Brah- 
mano  ^arah  Agnir  Vayw  Apai  Ghandramah  Vidyui  Addtyah  \  2\.  So, 
yah  v/padagdhena  hanisha  yajaU  Agnina  sa  ha  Brahmano  dvnrena  pra- 
tipadyafe  \  so  'gnina,  Brahmano  dvarem  pratipadya  Brahmanah  sdyu- 
j'yam  saloTcatdm  jayati  \  "There  are  six  doors  to  Brahma,  viz.,  Agni, 
Vayu,  the  Waters,  the  Moon,  Lightning,  the  Sun.  2.  He  who  sacri- 
fices with  a  burnt  offering,  arrives  by  Agni,  as  the  door  to  Brahma ; 
and  having  so  arrived,  he  attains  to  a  union  with  Brahma,  and 
abides  ia  the  same  sphere  with  him."  In  A.V.  xix.  7, 1,  1,  a  Brahma- 
loka  is  mentioned,  [For  the  Puianic  idea  of  the  world  of  Brahma, 
see  Wilson's  Yishnu  Purana,  4to.  ed.,  p.  48,  note  3,  and  p.  213,  note 
3  (or,  for  the  first  of  these  passages,  Professor  Hall's  8vo,  ed.,  vol.  i. 
p.  98),  and  for  the  second,  vol.  ii.  p.  228,  of  the  same  edition.J 

In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  5,  6,  9,  it  is  declared  that  a  man  who  reads 
the  Vedas  in  a  particular  manner  is  "  freed  from  dying  again,  and 
attains  to  a  sameness  of  nature  with  Brahma  {Brahmanah  satmatam). 
Even  if  he  cannot  read  with  much  power,  let  him  read  one  sentence 
relating  to  the  gods,"  (See  the  original  passage  with  the  context  in 
the  3rd  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  18  ff.) 

The  following  curious  passage  is  from  the  Aitareya  Brahmana, 
iii.  44 :  Sa  vai  esha  na  kadaohana  astam  eti  na  vdeti  \  tam  yad  astam 
eti  iti  manyante  ahnah  eva  tad  antam  itva  atha  atmdnam  viparyasyate 
ratrim  eva  avastdt  liwute  ahah  paraftdt  |  atha  yad  enam  prdtar  udeti  iti 
manyante  rdtrer  eva  tad  antam  itva  atha  atmdnam  viparyasyate  ahwr  eva 
avastdt  hirute  rdtrim  pa/rastdt  \  sa  vai  esha  na  haddchama  nimrochati  j 
na  ha  vai  kaddehwna  nimrochati  etasya  ha  so,yiyyam  sa/rnpatdm  saloleatdm 
adtiute  yah  evam  veda  yah  evam  veda  | 

"  The  Sun  neither  ever  sets  or  rises.  When  people  think  he  sets  he 
(only)  turns  himself  round,  after  reaching  the  end  of  the  day,  and 
makes  night  below  and  day  above.  Then  when  people  think  he  rises 
in  the  morning  he  (only)  turns  himself  round  after  reaching  the  end  of 
the  night,  and  makes  day  below  and  night  above.  In  truth,  he  never 
sets.  The  man  who  knows  this,  that  the  sun  never  sets,  enjoys  union 
and  sameness  of  nature  with  him,  and  abides  in  the  same  sphere."  "' 

1B9  (See  Prof.  Haug's  Aitareya  Brahmana,  ii.  p.  242.  I  differ  from  that  Beholar  in 
translating  parastat,  "aboTO,"  and  not  "on  the  other  side."  Compare  Ind.  Stud. 
ix.  p.  278.  See  also  Vishnu  Purana,  ii.  8 ;  p.  241  of  Dr.  Hall's  edition  of  VUson's 
Translation,  vol.  ii. 

21 


322      PEOFESSOR  WEBER'S  EXPLANATION  OF  THE  ORIGIN 

In  another  passage  (ii.  17)  the  same  work  declares  how  far  heaven 
IS  from  earth:  Sahasram  anuehyam  sva/rgahamasya  \  sahasrdivine  mi 
iia^  svargo  lokah  |  "  He  who  desires  heaven  should  repeat  a  thousand 
(verses).  Por  the  heavenly  world  is  distant  from  hence  a  thousand 
days'  journey  on  horseback." 

In  the  S'atap.  Br.  vi.  6,  2,  4,  it  is  said  that  the  door  of  heaven 
{svarga-hka)  is  situated  in  the  north-eastern  regions  {yad  u  eva  iidan 
pram  tishthcm  \  etasyam  ha  diU  svargasya  lolcasya  d/naram),  whUe  that  by 
which  the  heaven  of  the  Fathers  is  entered,  lies  to  the  south-east 
{prachiih  cha  dahahindm  cha  \  etasyam  ha  diU  pitrilokasya  doaram,  ibid, 
xiii.  8,  1,  S)}^" 

In  the  legend  on  future  retribution,  quoted  by  Weber,  as  above 
stated,  from  the  same  Brahmana  (xi.  6,  1,  1  ff.)  it  is  related  that 
Bhrigu,  the  son  of  Varuna,  visited,  by  his  father's  command,  the  four 
points  of  the  compass,  where  he  saw  men  being  cut  into  pieces  and 
eaten  by  other  men,  who,  when  questioned  by  Bhrigu,  declared  that 
they  were  revenging  on  their  victims  the  treatment  which  they  had 
received  at  their  hands  in  the  other  world  (on  earth).  These  victims 
are  allegoricaUy  explained  ia  the  Brahmana  as  representing  the  trees, 
animals,  plants,  and  waters  employed  in  sacrifice.  But  Professor 
Weber  is  of  opinion  that  the  story  is  an  old  popular  legend  regarding 
the  penal  retribution  executed  by  the  former  sufferers  themselves  on 
those  who  had  oppressed  them  while  on  earth,  and  that  the  narrative 
had  been  appropriated  by  the  priests  and  introduced  into  the  Brah- 
mana to  relieve  the  monotony  of  its  tedious  disquisitions,  and  explained 
in  the  manner  I  have  stated. 

I  return  to  Professor  Weber's  discussion  of  the  doctrine  of  the 
Brahmanas  regarding  a  future  state. 

"The  Brahmanas,  however,"  he  continues,  "are  not  explicit  in 
regard  to  the  duration  of  these  rewards  and  punishments  ;  and  it  is 
here  that  we  have  to  seek  the  origin  of  the  doctrine  of  transmigration. 
To  men  of  the  mild  disposition  and  reflective  spirit  of  the  Indians,  it 
would  not  appear  that  reward  and  punishment  could  be  eternal.  They 
would  conceive  that  it  must  be  possible  by  atonement  and  purification 
to  become  absolved  from  the  punishment  of  the  sins  committed  in  this 

490  gee  Weber,  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  ix.  243,  308, 


OP  THE  .DOCTRINE  OP  TRANSMIGRATION.  323 

short  life.  And  in  the  same  way  they  could  not  imagine  that  the 
reward  of  virtues  practised  during  the  same  brief  period  could 
continue  for  ever.  The  dogma  of  transmigration  answered  plainly  to 
both  of  these  suppositions,  though  in  another  respect  it  could  scarcely 
do  so ;  for  where  was  either  a  beginning  or  an  end  to  be  sought  ?  The 
spirit  of  inquiry  sought  to  escape  from  this  dUenuna  by  systematic 
refinements  {sonderung),  but  only  became  more  hopelessly  entangled ; 
and  at  length  it  was  only  extricated  by  cutting  the  knot,  by  succumb- 
ing to  the  influence  of  the  aspiration  after  complete  redemption  from 
the  bondage  of  the  world,  and  of  individual  existence ;  so  that  that 
destiny,  which  was  in  earlier  times  regarded  as  the  greatest  punish- 
ment, was  now  recognized  as  the  highest  reward.  This  mode  of 
cutting  the  knot  is  the  work  of  Buddha  and  Buddhism ;  and  the  best 
proof  that  the  fundamental  substance  of  the  Brahmanas  is  pre-Budd- 
histic  is  (apart  from  all  other  evidence)  to  be  found  in  this,  that  they 
do  not  recognize  the  existence  of  the  dilemma  in  question,  that  they 
know  nothing  of  the  contempt  of  life  to  which  we  have  alluded,  but 
rather  express  with  directness  and  naivete  a  fresh  and  genuine  love  of 
existence,  and  a  yearning  after  immortality.  It  is  only  some  passages 
of  the  Brihadaranyaka  and  of  the  Chhandogya  TJpanishad,  which  form 
an  exception  to  this  assertion ;  and  on  that  account  they  must  be  held 
evidently  to  belong  to  the  period  immediately  preceding  Buddha's 
appearance,  or  even  to  that  which  followed  it." 

It  does  not  quite  agree  with  the  conclusion  here  announced 
that  the  passage  I  have  quoted  above  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana, 
xi.  5,  6,  9,  appears  to  speak  of  union  with  Brahma ; — unless  Brahma, 
and  not  Brahma,  is  meant,  and  unless  the  word  sabmata  is  to  be 
understood  in  some  other  sense  than  the  later  one  of  absorption  into 
his  essence. 

Though  Indra,  Varuna,  and  other  gods  are  represented  in  the  Maha- 
bharata  and  Puranas  as  leading  a  sensual  and  immoral  life,*"  and 
though  the  Apsarases,  or  celestial  nymphs,  are  expressly  declared  to  be 
courtezans,"*  form  the  subject  of  most  voluptuous  descriptions,*''  and  are 


"1  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  "Work,  p.  41. 

"2  Ibid.  p.  394;  and  Ramayaua,  i.  45,  35  (ed.  Schlegel),  andi.  46,  2  (Gorresio). 
"3  See  Mahabharata,  iii.  1821  £f. ;    Ramayana,  Uttara   Kanda,  xxyi.   16  ff. 
(Bombay  ed.). 


324  QUOTATION  FEOM  THE  MAHABHAEATA 

represented  as  being  sent  by  the  gods  from  time  to  time  to  seduce  austere 
sages  into  unchastity,  and  are  promised,  as  -we  have  already  seen,  as  the 
companions  of  warriors  in  a  future  life, — ^yet  the  pictures  drawn  of 
paradise  in  those  works  are  not  always  of  such  a  gross  character.  In 
the  account  of  the  highest  stage  of  heavenly  blessedness  contained  in  the 
Mahabharata,  iii.  1 5441  ff.,  there  is  no  promise  of  any  sensual  gratification 
held  out.  It  appears  (vv.  15407-15487)  that  a  sage  named  Mudgala  had 
lived  a  life  of  poverty,  piety,  and  self-restraint,  offering  hospitality  to 
thousands  of  Brahmans,  according  to  his  humble  means,  with  the  grain 
which  he  gleaned  like  a  pigeon  {kdpotlm  vrittim  asthitah),  and  which 
(like  the  widow  of  Zarephath's  oil)  never  underwent  diminution,  or 
rather  increased  again  when  it  was  required  (verse  15413:  Irihidro- 
nasya  tad  hy  aaya  dadato  'nnam  mahatmanah  (  iishtam  mdtswryoMnasya 
vardhaty  atithidwr^anat).  At  length  another  holy  man,  called  Durvasas, 
famous  in  Indian  tradition  for  his  irascible  temper,  came  to  prove  Mud- 
gala's  powers  of  endurance ;  and  six  times  devoured  all  the  food  which 
the  hospitable  saint  possessed.  Findiagthat  the  temper  of  his  host  was 
altogether  unaffected  by  these  trials,  Durvasas  expressed  the  highest 
admiration  of  his  virtue,  and  declared  that  he  would  go  bodily  to 
heaven.  As  he  spoke  these  words  a  messenger  of  the  gods  amved  in  a 
celestial  car,  and  called  upon  Mudgala  to  ascend  to  a  state  of  complete 
-perfection.  The  sage,  however,  desired  first  to  learn  the  advantages 
and  drawbacks  of  the  heavenly  state,  and  the  messenger  proceeded  to 
teU  him  (w.  15441  ff.)  first  what  kind  of  people  go  there,  viz.,  those 
who  have  performed  austerities  or  celebrated  great  sacrifices,  the  truth- 
ful, the  orthodox,  the  righteous,  the  self-restrained,  the  meek,  the 
liberal,  the  brave,  etc.  These  celestial  abodes  were,  he  said,  shining, 
glorious,  and  filled  with  all  delights.  There  is  seen  the  vast  golden 
mountain  Meru,  and  the  holy  garden  Nandana,  etc.,  where  the  righ- 
teous disport.  There  hunger,  thirst,  weariness,  cold,  heat,  fear,  are 
unknown ;  there  is  nothing  disgusting  or  disagreeable ;  the  scents  are 
delightful ;  the  sounds  are  pleasant  to  the  ear  and  mind ;  there  is  no 
sorrow,  nor  lamentation,  nor  decay,  nor  labour,  nor  envy,  nor  jealousy, 
nor  delusion.  There  the  blessed  are  clothed  with  glorious  bodiep, 
which  are  produced  by  their  works,  and  not  generated  by  any  father 
or  mother.  Their  garlands  are  fragrant  and  unfading ;  they  ride  in 
aerial  cars.     Beyond  these  regions  there  are,  however,  others  of  a 


EEGAEDING  FUTUEE  FELICITY.  325 

higher  character — ;tho8e  to  which  the  rishis,  who  have  been  purified 
by  their  works,  proceed.  Still  further  on  are  those  where  the 
BibhuB,  who  are  gods  even  to  the  gods,  dwell,  and  where  there 
is  no  annoyance  occasioned  by  women  {strl-hritas  tapah),"'^  or  by 
envy  arising  from  the  sight  of  worldly  grandeur.  The  blessed  there 
do  not  subsist  on  oblations,  nor  do  they  feed  upon  ambrosia ;  they 
have  celestial  and  not  coarse  material  bodies.  These  eternal  gods  of 
gods  do  not  desire  pleasure;  they  do  not  change  with  the  revolutions 
of  Salpas  (great  mundane  ages).  How  can  they  then  be  subject 
either  to  decay  or  death?  They  experience  neither  joy,  nor  pleasure, 
nor  delight,  neither  happiness  nor  suffering,  neither  love  nor  hatred. 
That  highest  state,  so  diflScult  to  attain,  and  which  is  beyond  the  reach 
of  those  who  seek  after  pleasure  {a§wmya  'kama-gochmrmlf),  is  desired 
even  by  the  gods.  This  celestial  felicity,  the  messenger  says,  is  now 
within  Mudgala's  reach, — ^the  fruit  of  his  good  deeds.  The  speaker 
next,  according  to  his  promise,  explain^  the  drawbacks  of  the  heavenly 
state.  As  the  fruit  of  works  done  on  earth  is  enjoyed  in  heaven, 
whilst  no  other  new  works  are  performed  there  from  which  new 
rewards  could  spring,  this  enjoyment  is  cut  off  from  its  root,  and 
must  therefore  come  to  an  end  (verse  15468  :  hritmya  hmrmanas 
tatra  Mt^'yate  yat  phalam  clivi  \  na  cha^vyat  hriyate  karma  mula-chhedma 
hhm'yate).  For  this  world  is  the  place  for  works,  while  the  other  is 
the  place  for  reward  (verse  15475  :  karmabhumir  iyam  hrahmcm  plM- 
lahhumir  asau  mats).  This  loss  of  gratifications  to  which  the  heart 
has  become  devoted,  and  the  dissatisfaction  and  pain  which  arise  in  the 
minds  of  those  who  have  sunk  to  a  lower  estate,  from  beholding  the 
more  brilliant  prosperity  of  others,  is  intolerable.  To  this  must  be  added 
the  consciousness  and  the  bewilderment  of  those  who  so  descend,  and 
the  fear  of  falling  which  they  experience  when  their  garlands  begin  to 
fade.  Such  are  the  defects  which  attach  to  all  existence  till  it  is 
absorbed  in  Brahma.  But  the  state  of  those  who  have  fallen  from 
heaven  is  not  altogether  without  compensation.  As  a  result  of  their 
previous  good  deeds  they  are  born  in  a  condition  of  happiness ;  though, 
if  they  are  not  vigilant,  they  sink  still  lower.  Having  given  this 
explanation,  the  messenger  of  the  gods  invites  Mudgala  to  accompany 
him  to  paradise.  The  saint,  however,  after  consideration,  replies  that 
*"  Compare  Plato,  Eepublio,  i.  4. 


326     DIFFERENT  RESULTS  OF  WORKS  AND  OP  KNOWLEDGE. 

he  can  have  nothing  to  do  with  a  state  of  happiness  which  is  vitiated 
by  so  great  defects,  and  the  termination  of  which  is  followed  by  so  great 
misery.  He  has  therefore  no  desire  for  heaven  ;  and  wiU  seek  only 
that  eternal  abode  where  there  is  no  sorrow,  nor  distress,  nor  change. 
He  then  asks  the  celestial  messenger  what  other  sphere  there  is  which 
is  free  from  all  defects.  The  messenger  replies,  that  above  the  abode 
of  BraJima  is  the  pure  eternal  light,  the  highest  sphere  of  Vishnu,  who 
is  regarded  as  the  supreme  Brahma.  Thither  none  can  proceed  who 
are  devoted  to  objects  of  sense,  or  who  are  the  slaves  of  dishonesty, 
avarice,  anger,  delusion,  or  malice ;  but  only  the  unselfish,  the  humble, 
those  who  are  indifferent  to  pain  and  pleasure,  those  whose  senses  are 
under  restraint,  and  those  who  practise  contemplation  and  fix  their 
minds  on  the  deity.  The  sage  then  dismissed  the  messenger  of  the 
gods,  began  to  practise  ascetic  virtues,  becoming  indifferent  to  praise 
and  blame,  regarding  clods,  stones,  and  gold  as  alike.  Pure  knowledge 
led  to  fixed  contemplation ;  and  that  again  imparted  strength  and 
complete  comprehension,  whereby  he  attained  supreme  eternal  per- 
fection, in  the  nature  of  quietude  [nirvana]  {jndnayogena  ivddhena 
dhyananityo  iahhuva  ha  \  Shyanayogad  halam  Idbdhvd  prapya  luddMm 
anuftamam  \  J&gama  sa&oatlm  siddhim,  pa/rdih,  nirvdna-lakshanam).*'^ 

The  difference  between  the  results  of  meritorious  works  and  of 
knowledge,  so  familiar  to  the  religious  philosophy  of  the  Hindus,  is 
clearly  set  forth  in  the  following  verses  of  the  Mahabharata,  xii.  8810  ff.: 

Karmand  badhyate  jantw  vidyayd  tu  prammhyate  \  tasmdt  karma  na 
kwrvcmti  yatayibh  pdradarsinah  |  8811.  Karmand  jayate  pretya  murti- 
mdn  shoda&dtmakah  \  vidyayd  jayate  nityam  avyaktaM  hy  axyaydtma- 
Icam  I  8812.  Karma  tv  eke  pra^amsanti  svalpabuddhi-ratdh  nardh  \  tena 
te  deha-jdldni  ramayantah  upasate  \  8813.  Ye  sma  huddhim  pardm 
prdptah  dhwrma-naipuna-da/rHnah,  \  na  te  karma  praiaihscmti  kupam 
nadydm pibann  iva  \  8814.  Karmanah  pMlam  dpnoti  sukhaduhkhe  bha- 
vabhavau  \  vidyayd  tad  aodpnoti  yatra  gated  na  Sochati  \  8815.  Yatra 
gated  na  mriyate  yatra  gated  na  jdyate  |  na  punwr  jdyate  yatra  yatra 
gated  na  varttate  \  8816.  Yatra  tad  Brahma  paramam  aeyaktam  acha- 
lam  dhrmam  \  mydkritam  andydmm  amritam  cMviyogi  oha  \ 

<»5  See  the  otber  passages  quoted,  s.v.,  by  Bohtlmgk  and  Roth,  from  Brahmanical 
writings  where  this  word  is  used.  Its  employment  by  Buddhists  to  express  the 
highest  destiny  of  mundane  creatures  is  well  known. 


TAMA,  AND  A  FTTTUEE  LIFE,  A  METRICAL  SKETCH.         327 

"  By  works  a  creature  is  bound ;  by  knowledge  he  is  liberated ; 
wherefore  devotees  gifted  with  perfect  insight  perform  no  works. 
Through  works  a  creature  is  born  again  after  death,  with  a  body  (of 
one  or  other)  of  sixteen  descriptions ;  by  knowledge  he  becomes  the 
Eternal,  Imperceptible,  and  TJndecaying.  Some  men  of  little  under- 
standing eulogise  works,  and  so  embrace  with  delight  the  entangle- 
ments of  corporeal  existence.  But  those  who  have  reached  the  highest 
intelligence,  and  a  perfect  comprehension  of  righteousness,  do  not 
commend  works,  as  a  person  drinking  from  a  river  thinks  little  of  a 
well.  The  results  which  a  man  obtains  from  works  are  pleasure  and 
pain,  prosperity  and  adversity ;  by  knowledge  he  gains  that  condition 
in  which  his  griefs  are  at  an  end,  in  which  he  dies  not,  in  which  his 
birth  is  not  repeated,  from  which  he  does  not  return ;  in  which  that 
supreme  Brahma  exists  imperceptible,  unchanging,  etc.,  etc." 


(7)  Yama,  and  a  future  life, — a  metrical  sketch. 

To  great  king  Tama  homage  pay, 

"Who  was  the  first  of  men  that  died. 
That  crossed  the  mighty  gulf,  and  spied 

For  mortals  out  the  heavenward  way. 

No  power  can  ever  close  the  road 

"Which  he  to  us  laid  open  then, 

By  which  in  long  procession  men 
Ascend  to  his  sublime  abode. 

By  it  our  fathers  all  have  passed ; 

And  that  same  path  we  too  shaE  trace, 

And  every  new  succeeding  race 
Of  mortal  men,  while  time  shall  last. 

The  god  assembles  round  his  throne 

A  growing  throng,  the  good  and  wise — 

All  those  whom,  scanned  with  searching  eyes, 

He  recognizes  as  his  own. 


328       TAMA,  AND  A  FUTUJRE  LIFE,  A  METRICAL  SKETCH. 

Departed  mortal,*'^  speed  from  earth 

By  those  old  ways  thy  sires  haye  trod ; 
Ascend,  behold  the  expectant  god 

Who  calls  thee  to  a  higher  hirth. 

First  must  each  several  element 

That  joined  to  form  thy  living  frame 
FHt  to  the  region  whence  it  came, 

And  with  its  parent  source  he  blent. 

Thine  eye  shall  seek  the  solar  orb, 

Thy  life-breath  to  the  wind  shall  fly, 
Thy  part  ethereal  to  the  sky  ; 

Thine  earthy  part  shall  earth  absorb. 

Thiae  unborn  part  shall  Agni  bright 
"With  his  benignest  rays  iUume, 
And  guide  it  through  the  trackless  gloom 

To  yonder  sphere  of  life  and  Ught. 

On  his  resplendent  pinions  rise. 
Or  soar  upon  a  car  aloft. 
By  Wind-gods  fanned  with  breezes  soft, 

Until  thou  enterest  paxadise. 

And  calmly  pass,  without  alarm, 

The  four-eyed  hounds  that  guard  the  road 
"Which  leads  to  Tama's  bright  abode  : 

Their  master's  friends  they  dare  not  harm. 

AU.  imperfections  leave  behind : 

Assume  thine  ancient  frame  once  more, — 
Each  limb,  and  sense,  thou  hadst  before, — 

Erom  every  earthly  taint  refined, 

<9s  The  dead  are  thus  addressed  at  funeral  ceremonials. 


NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STOET.  329 

And  now  with  heavenly  glory  hright, 

"With  Kfe  intenser,  nobler,  blest, 

"With  large  capacity  to  taste 
A  fuUer  measure  of  delight. 

Thou  there  once  more  each  well-known  face 

Shalt  see  of  those  thou  lovedst  here : 

Thy  parents,  wife,  and  children  dear, 
With  rapture  shalt  thou  soon  embrace. 

The  Fathers,  too,  shalt  thou  behold, 

The  heroes  who  in  battle  died. 

The  saints  and  sages,  glorified, 
The  pious,  bounteous,  kings  of  old. 

The  gods  whom  here  in  humble  wise 

Thou  worshippedst  with  doubt  and  awe. 
Shall  there  the  impervious  veil  withdraw 

Which  hid  their  glory  from  thine  eyes. 

The  good  which  thou  on  earth  hast  wrought. 

Each  sacrifice,  each  pious  deed, 

Shall  there  receive  its  ample  meed ; 
No  worthy  act  shall  be  forgot; 

In  those  fair  realms  of  cloudless  day, 

"Where  Tama  every  joy  supplies, 

And  every  longing  satisfies. 
Thy  bliss  shall  never  know  decay. 

(8)  NdckiMtas,  an  ancient  theosopMc  story,  metrically  rendered  from  the 
Taittirlya  Brahnana,  and  the  Katha  TTpanishad. 

Ab  an  illustration  of  the  preceding  remarks  of  Professor  "Weber  (in 
pp.  314  ff.),  on  the  subject  of  transmigration,  and  generally  of  the  later 
doctrine  of  the  Upanishads  on  the  nature  and  destiny  of  the  soul, 
I  introduce  here  a  free  metrical  translation  of  the  story  of  NachikStas, 
as  told  briefly  in  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  iii.  11,  8,  1  ff.,  and  in  a 


330  NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY. 

greatly  developed  form  in  the  Elatha  ITpanisliad.  An  English,  trans- 
lation of  this  IJpanishad,  by  Dr.  Eoer,  wiU  be  found  in  the  Bibliotheca 
Indica,  vol.  xv.  published  in  1853,  pp.  99  ff.,  and  a  German  version 
in  Windischmann's  work,  entitled  "  die  Philosophie  im  Fortgang  der 
■Weltgeschiohte,"  pp.  1706  ff. : 

Desiring  heaven,  a  sage  of  old 

With  sacrifice  the  gods  adored ; 

Devoting  to  the  priests  his  hoard 
Of  slowly-gathered  goods  and  gold. 

His  son,  young  Naohikdtas,  stood. 

And  saw  the  gifts  his  father  brought 
To  give  the  priests  :  "My  sire,"  he  thought, 
"  His  vow  has  not  made  fully  good," 

"  Thou  hast  not  all,  my  father,  given 

Thou  hadst  to  give,"  he  calmly  said ; 
"  One  offering  more  must  yet  be  made. 
If  thou  wouldst  hope  to  merit  heaven." 

"  To  whom  shall  I  be  given,  my  sire  ?" 

His  father  deemed  the  question  vain ; 
Once  more  he  asked,  and  yet  again. 

"  To  Death,"  his  father  cried  in  ire. 

He  rose  to  go  to  Death's  abode ; 

A  Voice  addressed  him  from  the  air, 
"  Go,  seek  Death's  house,  and  enter  there 
What  time  its  lord  shall  be  abroad : 


"  Three  nights  within  his  mansion  stay, 

But  taste  not,  though  a  guest,  his  food ; 
And  when,  in  hospitable  mood 
He  comes  and  asks  thee,  thou  shalt  say  : — 


NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY.  331 

"  '  I  in  thy  house  three  nights  have  past.' 

"When  next  he  asks,  '  What  didst  thou  eat  ? ' 
Say,  *  First  thy  children  were  my  meat, 
Thy  cattle  next,  thy  merits  last.'  "  ^" 

The  youth  that  heavenly  Voice  obeyed, 

And  dwelt  three  nights  in  Death's  abode ; 
"When  questioned  by  his  host,  the  god, 

He  answered  as  the  Voice  had  said. 

Disturbed  that  thus  his  youthful  guest 
Had  not  been  fitly  entertaiued, 
The  god,  to  make  amends  constrained, 

The  stranger  humbly  thus  addressed : — 

"I  bow  before  thee,  reverend  child ; 

I  pray  thee,  crave  a  boon  of  me." 
"My  father  let  me,  living,  see," 
The  boy  replied,  "  and  reconciled." 

To  whom  the  god — "I  grant  thy  prayer; 
But  ask  a  second  boon,"  replied. 
"  May  my  good  works,"  the  stripHng  cried, 
Of  bliss  an  endless  harvest  bear." 

This,  too,  according,  Death  desired 

He  yet  one  boon  would  choose,  the  last. 
"  "When  men  away  from  earth  have  past, 
Then  live  they  still  ?  "  the  youth  inquired. 

"  To  solve  this  question,  dark  and  grave, 
"Was  even  for  gods  too  hard  a  task : 
This  boon,  I  pray  thee,  cease  to  ask. 
My  son,"  said  Death,  "  another  crave." 

«'  By  these  words,  according  to  the  Indian  commentator,  it  is  intimated  that  the 
host  who  leayes  his  guest  without  food  for  one  night,  loses  his  children ;  that  by  a 
similar  neglect  on  the  second  night,  he  loses  his  cattle ;  and  that,  finally,  he  forfeits 
the  reward  of  his  merits  in  a  future  Hfe,  if  the  guest  is  allowed  to  fast  during  the 
third  night. 


332  NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIO  STORY. 

Youth  Nachik^tas,  undeterred, 

Eejoined,  "  The  hoon  I  choose,  bestow ; 
Who  can  like  thee  the  answer  know  ? 

No  boon  with  this  may  be  compared." 

Death  said,  "Ask  all  thine  heart's  desire  ; 

Sons  long-lived,-  cattle,  gold,  demand, 

Elect  a  wide  domain  of  land, 
And  length  of  days  from  me  require ; 

"  Or  seek  what  earth  cannot  supply — 

The  love  of  witching  heavenly  brides, 
And  aU  celestial  joys  besides ; 
But  into  death  forbear  to  pry." 

The  youth  rejoined,  "  The  force  of  man 
Is  fraU,  and  all  excess  of  joys 
His  feeble  organs  soon  destroys : 

Our  longest  life  is  but  a  span. 

"  Wealth  cannot  satisfy ;  all  zest 

Of  pleasure  flies  before  thy  face ; 
Our  life  depends  upon  thy  grace  : 
Once  more,  of  boons  I  crave  the  best ; 

"  Tor  who,  with  deathless  youth  though  crowned, 
And  godlike  force,  if  wise,  would  deign 
To  spend  an  endless  life  ia  vain 
In  carnal  joy's  disturbing  round  ?  " 

When  thus  the  stripling  had  withstood, 
Though  proffered  by  a  god,  the  lure 
Of  sensual  bliss,  and  craved  the  pure 

Delight  of  transcendental  good ; 

Then  Death,  who  knew  the  unborn  soul 
And  being's  essence,  taught  the  youth 
The  science  of  the  highest  truth. 

Through  which  is  reached  the  final  goal : 


NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY.  333 

"  Two  things  for  men's  regard  contend — 

The  good,  the  pleasant ;  he  who  woos 
The  good  is  blest ;  while  they  who  choose 
The  pleasant  miss  the  highest  end. 

"  The  wise  between  the  two  discern, 

The  pleasant  spurn,  the  good  embrace. 
But  fools  the  pleasant  vainly  chase ; 
To  love  the  good  they  cannot  learn. 

"  The  first  take  knowledge  for  their  guide ; 
The  last  by  ignorance  are  led  : 
Far,  far,  diverge  the  paths  they  tread, 
The  chasm  that  parts  their  goals  is  wide. 

"  The  fools  who  ignorance  obey, 

Conceive  they  much  have  learnt  and  know, 
But  roam,  unwitting  where  they  go, 
As  bUnd  men,  led  by  bliad  men,  stray. 

"  Absorbed  in  sordid  cares  or  strife. 

The  men  whom  earthly  passions  fire 
To  no  sublimer  aims  aspire, 
Nor  dream  of  any  future  life. 

"  Of  all  the  objects  men  can  know, 

The  highest  is  the  soul,  too  high 
For  common  mortals  to  descry. 
Whose  eyes  are  dazed  by  outward  show. 

"  Some  men  have  never  learnt  this  lore. 

And  some,  whom  sages  seek  to  teach, 
Possess  no  faculty  to  reach 
That  sacred  doctriue's  inner  core. 

"  0  BkUled  and  wonderful,  my  son, 

Is  he  the  soul  who  gains  and  knows  ! 
This  subtile  science  only  those 
Can  teach  who  think  the  soul  as  one. 


334  NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY. 

"The  sage  whose  spirit's  gaze  intense 

This  God,  the  Soul  (from  fleshly  eyes 
Impenetrably  Teiled)  descries, 
No  longer  dotes  on  things  of  sense. 

"  Derived  from  no  anterior  source, 

The  soul,  unborn,  exempt  from  all 
The  accidents  which  life  befaU, 
Holds  on  its  everlasting  course. 

"  The  smiter  thinks  that  he  can  slay. 

The  smitten  fears  that  he  is  slain  : 
The  thoughts  of  both  alike  are  vain ; 
The  soul  survives  the  murderous  fray. 

"  Steel  cannot  cut,  nor  cleave,  nor  tear, 

Nor  fire  consume,  nor  water  wet, 

'Not  winds  e'er  dry  it  up,  nor  yet 

Aught  else  its  deathless  essence  wear. 

"  A  man  casts  from  him  on  the  shelf 

His  garments  old,  and  newer  takes  ; 
So  bodies  worn  the  soul  forsakes. 
And  new  assumes,  unchanged  itself.*'' 

"  The  man  who  learns  the  soul  to  be 
Minute,  yet  infinitely  vast. 
He,  "by  his  Maker's  grace,  at  last 
Its  majesty  attains  to  see. 

"  It  travels  far  and  wide,  at  rest ; 

Moves  everywhere,  although  asleep ; 
Say,  who  but  I  the  secret  deep 
Of  this  mysterious  god  has  guessed  ? 

498  The  ideas  in  this  and  the  preceding  verse  are  taken  from  the  Bhagavadgita. 


NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY.  335 

"  By  reasoning,  thouglit,  or  many  books, 
This  hidden  soul  is  sought  in  vain ; 
That  man  alone  the  soul  may  gain 
On  whom  the  soul  with  favour  looks. 

"Elected  thus,  the  sage  believes 

His  oneness  with  the  One  supreme. 
Awakes  for  ever  from  the  dream 
Which  iminstruoted  men  deceives ; 

"  And  soon  from  imperfection  purged, 

And  freed  from  circling  life  and  death. 
He  calmly  yields  his  vital  breath. 
And  in  the  sovereign  Soul  is  merged.*'' 


*"  In  the  last  two  verses  I  have  stated  the  Vedantio  doctrine  more  explicitly  than 
it  is  expressed  in  the  Katha  Upanishad, 


836 


SECTION  XXI. 

MINOE   BrVINITIES. 

TEITA  APTYA,  AHIRBTJDHNTA,  AND  AJA  EKAPAD. 

The  following  account  of  the  deity,  Trita,  is  given  in  the  Lexicon  of 
Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v. : — 

"  Trita  is  the  name  of  a  Vedic  god,  who  appears  principally  in  con- 
nection with  the  Maruts,  Vata  or  Vayu,  and  Indra,  and  to  whom,  as 
to  these  other  deities,  comhats  with  demons,  Tvashtra,  Vritra,  the 
Serpent,  and  others  are  ascribed.  He  is  called  Aptya,  and  his  abode 
is  conceived  of  as  remote  and  hidden  :  hence  arises  the  custom  of 
wishing  that  evil  may  depart  to  him.  He  bestows  long  life.  Several 
passages  show  the  lower  and  certainly  later  view  of  Trita,  that  he 
fights  with  the  demons  under  the  guidance  and 'protection  of  Indra, 
and  thus  lead  to  the  conception  of  a  rishi  Trita  (Mrukta,  iv.  6).'' 

Eeference  has  been  already  made  to  Trita  {a)  in  p.  117,  where  Pro- 
fessor Koth's  opinion,  that  he  was  an  ancient  god  superseded  by  Indra, 
is  quoted,  (h)  in  p.  230,  where  two  texts  (R.V.  x.  8,  8,  and  x.  99,  6), 
relating  to  his  conflicts  with  the  three-headed  demon,  are  cited,  and 
(c)  in  p.  195,  where  a  prayer  to  Ushas,  to  drive  away  sleeplessness  to 
Trita  Aptya  (E.V.  viii.  47,  14  ff.)  is  adduced. 

Some  of  the  other  detached  verses  relating  to  this  divinity  (to  whom 
no  separate  hymn  is  dedicated)  are  the  following:  i.  52,  5  ;  i.  105,  9  ; 
i.  163,  2  f. ;  i.  187,  1 ;  ii.  11,  19  f.,  etc. 

Ahirbudhnya  is,  according  to  the  Lexicon  of  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and 
Eoth,  S.V.,  huihnya,  "  the  Dragon  of  the  deep,  who  is  reckoned  among 
the  deities  of  the  middle  sphere."  The  deep  in  which  he  resides  is  the 
atmospheric  ocean. 

Aja  Ekapad  is,  according  to  the  same  authorities,  s.v.,  "the  One- 
footed  Impeller,  probably  a  storm-god;  according  to  the  commentators 
he  represents  the  sun."  See  Eoth's  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p. 
165.  These  two  gods,  like  Trita,  are  merely  mentioned  in  detached 
verses. 


337 


SECTION    XX. 

THE  GODDESSES  MENTIONED  IN  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS. 

Of  the  goddesses  mentioned  in  tte  Eig-veda  some  have  been  noticed 
already  in  former  parts  of  this  volume,  viz.,  Prithivl  (pp.  21  £F.) ; 
Aditi,  the  mother  of  the  Adityas,  and  representative  of  the  universe 
(pp.  35  if.);  Diti,  her  counterpart  (p.  42  f.);  Mshtigri,  the  mother 
(pp.  13  and  79),  and  IndranI  (p.  82),  the  -wife  of  Indra;™  Prisni, 
the  mother  of  the  Maruts  (p.  147)  ;  TJshas  (pp.  181  ff.);  and  Surya,  the 
daughter  of  the  Sun,  and  spouse  of  the  A^vins,  or  of  Soma  (pp.  335  ff.). 
Various  other  goddesses  are  also  celebrated  in  the  hymns  of  the  Kig- 
veda,  such  as  Agnayi,  VarunanI,  Eodasi,  Baka,  Sinivali,  S'raddha 
(Faith),  Aramati,  and  the  Apsarases,  whose  names,  however,  occur  but 
rarely ;  and  SarasvatI,  with  her  cognates,  who  receive  considerably 
greater  prominence. 

In  E.V.  i.  22,  11,  the  goddesses,  wives  of  the  heroes  (the  gods), 
with  uncut  wings,  are  besought  to  protect  and  bless  the  worshipper 
{abhi  no  devir  avasa  mahah  Sarmana  nrvpatnih  \  achhinnapatraft  sach- 
antam).     Compare  Vaj.  S.  jxi.  61,  and  S'atap.  Br.  vi.  5,  4,  8). 

(1)  SarasvatI. 

Sarasvati  is  a  goddess  of  some,  though  not  of  very  great,  importance 
in  the  Eig-veda.  As  observed  by  Taska  (Nirukta,  ii.  23)  she  is 
celebrated  both  as  a  river  and  as  a  deity  ™^  {tatra  SarasvatI  ity  etasya 
nadivad  devatavach  cha  nigamah,  hhavanti).  As  an  instance  of  the  former 

600  IndranI  says,  in  E.V.  x.  86,  9 :  "  This  mischievous  creature  Inste  after  me, 
as  if  I  had  no  husband  or  sons,  and  yet  I  am  the  wife  of  Indra,  and  the  mother 
of  a  hero,"  etc.  [mnram  iva  mam  aymh  sararur  abhi  mcmyate  \  utaAam  asmi  virinl 
IndrapatnT).  IndranT,  as  we  have  seen  above,  p.  82,  is  mentioned  in  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  i,  2, 
7,  from  which  it  appears  that  different  goddesses  had  been  competitors  for  the  hand 
of  Indra,  and  that  IndranI  has  been  chosen  because  she  surpassed  them  all  iu  volup- 
tuous attractions.    In  the  same  wort,  ii.  8,  8,  4,  Vach  is  said  to  be  the  wife  of  Indra. 

'01  See  also  Sayana  on  E.V.  i.  3,  12 :  Dvividha  hi  SarasvatJ  vigrahavad-devata 
nadi-rupa  cha. 

22 


338  SAEASVATI. 

character,  he  refers  to  E.V.  vi.  61,  2,  which  I  shall  quote  further 
on.  She  was  no  doubt  primarily  a  river  deity,  as  her  name,  "the 
watery,"  ^  clearly  denotes,  and  in  this  capacity  she  is  celebrated  in  a 
few  separate  passages.  AUusion  is  made  in  the  hymns,  as  well  as  in 
the  Brahmanas  {Rishayo  vai  Saras/vatyam  mi/ram  asata  \  ityadi  \  Ait. 
Br.  ii.  19 ;  Haug,  vol.  ii.  p.  112)  to  sacrifices  being  performed  on  the 
banks  of  this  river  and  of  the  adjoining  DrishadvatI ;  ™  and  the  Saras- 
vati  in  particular"  seems  to  have  been  associated  with  the  reputation 
for  sanctity,  which,  according  to  the  well-known  passage  in  the  In- 
stitutes of  Manu  (ii.  17  f.,  quoted  in  the  2nd  vol.  of  this  work,  p. 
416  f.),  was  ascribed  to  the  whole  region,  called  Brahmavartta,  lying 
between  these  two  small  streams,  and  situated  immediately  to  the 
westward  of  the  Jumna.  The  SarasvatI  thus  appears  to  have  been 
to  the  early  Indians  what  the  Ganges  (which  is  only  twice  named 
in  the  Eig-veda)  became  to  their  descendants.'"*  Already  in  K.V.  i.  3, 
10  (where,  however,  she  is  perhaps  regarded  as  the  goddess  of  sacrifice) 
she  is  described  as  "the  purifier"  {pavaM  nah  Sdrasvatl);  and  in 
E.Y.  X.  17,  10  =  Vaj.  San.  4,  2 ;  A.V.  vi.  51,  2  (after  SarasvatI  has 
been  mentioned,  verses  7-9),  the  waters  are  thus  celebrated :  Apo 
asmdn  mdtarah  iunihayantu  ghritena  no  ghritdpva^  py/namtu  \  vikoafh, 
hi  ripram  prcmahanti  devir  p,d  id  dhhyah  iuohir  d  putah  emi  \  "  May 
the  "Waters,  the  mothers,  cleanse  us,  may  they  (the  waters)  who  purify 
with  butter,  purify  us  with  butter;  for  these  goddesses  bear  away 
defilement ;  I  come  up  out  of  them  pure  and  cleansed."  "When  once 
the  river  had  acquired  a  divine  character,  it  was  quite  natural  that  she 
should  be  regarded  as  the  patroness  of  the  ceremonies  which  were 

'0'  SarasvatI  sarah  ity  udaha-nama  sartes  tad-vafi  (Nirukta,  ii.  26).  The  Brah- 
maTaivartta-purana,  ii.  6,  as  referred  to  in  Professor  Auireclit's  Cat.  p.  23,  col.  2,  has 
a  legend  that  tlie  SarasvatT  was  changed  into  a  river  by  an  imprecation  of  the  Ganga. 
In  the  A.V.  vi.  100,  1,  three  Sarasvatis  are  spoken  of,  but  no  explanation  is  given  of 
their  difference, 

'I"  R.Y.  iii.  23,  4  :  "  I  place  thee,  Agni,  on  the  abode  of  Ila  (compare  iii.  29,  4), 
on  the  most  excellent  spot  of  the  earth,  on  the  most  auspicious  of  days.  Shine,  so  as 
to  enrich  us,  in  a  place  of  human  resort,  on  the  banks  of  the  Brishadvata,  the  Apaya, 
the  SarasvatI "  («»  tva  dadhe  vare  a  prithivyah  ilayas  pade  swdinatve  ahnam  \  Drish- 
advdtyam  manushe  Apayciyain  Sarasvatyam  revad  Agne  didihi), 

604  It  is  clear  from  the  passages  quoted  in  the  2nd  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  416  ff. 
ihat  the  SarasvatI  continued  in  later  times  also  to  be  regarded  as  a  sacred  riv«r,  but 
this  character  vf  as  shared  by  other  Indian  streams,  if  not  by  them  all. 


SAEASVATI.  339 

celebrated  on  the  margin  of  her  holy  waters,  and  that  her  direction 
and  blessing  should  be  invoked  as  essential  to  their  proper  perform- 
ance and  success.  The  connection  into  which  she  was  thus  brought 
with  sacred  rites  may  have  led  to  the  further  step  of  imagining  her  to 
have  an  influence  on  the  composition  of  the  hymns  which  formed  so 
important  a  part  of  the  proceedings,  and  of  identifying  her  with  Yach, 
the  goddess  of  speech.  At  least,  I  have  no  other  explanation  to  offer 
of  this  double  character  and  identification. 

SsirasvatI  is  frequently  invited  to  the  sacrifices  along  ■ydth  several 
other  goddesses,  Ila,  Bharatl,  Mahi,  Hotra,  VarutrT,  Dhishana  (i.  13,  9; 
i.  142,  9 ;  i.  188,  8  ;  iii.  4,  8 ;  v.  5,  8  ;  ix.  5,  8 ;  x.  110^  8),  who, 
however,  were  never,  like  her,  river  nymphs,  but  personifications  of 
some  department  of  religious  worship,  or  sacred  science.  She  is  also 
frequently  invoked  along  with  other  deities  (ii.  30,  8;  iii.  54,  13; 
V.  42,  12  ;  vii.  35,  11  ;  viii.  38,  10  ;  ix.  81,  4  ;  x.  65,  1,  13 ; 
X.  141,  5). 

In  many  of  the  passages^"'  where  Sarasvati  is  celebrated,  her  original 
character  is,  as  I  have  intimated,  distinctly  preserved.  Thus  in  two 
places  she  is  mentioned  along  with  rivers,  or  fertUizing  waters :  vi. 
52,  6  {Swrasvati  sindhulMh  pinvamana) ;  x.  30,  12  (  apo  revatih  hsha- 
yatha  hi  vasva^  kratum  cha  hhadram  hibhrithamritwm  eha  \  rayai  cha 
siha  svapatyasya  patnlh  Sarasvati  tad  grinate  vayo  dhat  \  "Te,  opulent 
waters,  command  riches ;  ye  possess  excellent  power  and  immortality ; 
ye  are  the  mistresses  of  wealth  and  progeny ;  may  Sarasvati  bestow 
this  vitality  on  her  worshipper  ") ;  and  in  x.  64,  9  ;  x.  75,  5  f ,  she  is 
specified  along  with  the  other  well-known  streams  which  are  there 
named,  the  Sarayu,  the  Sindhu,  the  Ganga,  the  Yamuna,  the  S'utudri, 
etc.  In  vii.  96,  2,  and  viii.  21,  18,  reference  is  made  to  the  kings  and 
people  living  along  her  banks  (  Chitrah  id  raja  rajakdh  id  anyake  yoke 

505  Sayana  understands  i.  3, 12  (^maho  arnah  sarasvati  pra  ehetayati  ketuna  |  dhiyo 
visvah  virajati),  of  the  river,  and  explains  it  thus  :  "  The  Sarasvati,  by  her  act  (of 
flowing),  displays  a  copious  flood."  Roth,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta  (xi.  26), 
p.  152,  translates,  "  A  mighty  stream  is  Sarasvati ;  with  her  light  she  lightens,  illu- 
minates all  pious  minds."  He,  however,  regards  the  commencing  words  as  figura- 
tive, and  not  as  referring  to  the  river.  Benfey  renders  ;  "  Sarasvati,  by  her  light, 
causes  the  great  sea  to  be  known ;  she  shines  through  all  thoughts."  He  under- 
stands the  "great  sea"  as  the  universe,  or  as  life,  which  he  says  is  often  designated 
in  common  Sanskrit  also  by  the  word  aaga/ra.  The  conceptions  of  Sarasvati  3s  a 
river,  and  as  the  directress  of  ceremonies,  may  be  blended  in  the  passage. 


340  SAEASVATI. 


tiu).  In  vi.  61,  10,  and  vii.  36,  6,  she  is  spoken  of  as 
having  seven  sisters,  as  one  of  seven  rivers,  and  as  the  mother  of 
streams  {saptawasa  \  sarasvatt  saptatM  sindhumdtd).  In  another  place 
she  is  said  to  pour  on  her  fertilizing  waters,  to  surpass  all  other 
rivers,  and  to  flow  pure  from  the  mountains  to  the  sea,  vii.  95,  1  {pra 
kshodasd,  dhayasa  sasre  esha  Sarasvati  dharunam  ayasi  puh  \  prahdha- 
dhdnd  rathyeva  ydti  viivah  apo  mahina  sindhwr  cmyah  \  2.  Eka  achetat 
Smrasvati  nadlndm  Suchir  ydti  girihhyah  a  iamudrdt  \  rdyai  chetcmtl 
hhuvanasya  bhurer  ghritam  payo  duduhe  ndhushdya)  ;  to  be  the  swiftest 
of  floods  {apamm  apastamd),  vi.  61,  13;  and  in  vi.  61,  2  and  8,  to 
tear  away,  like  a  digger  of  the  roots  of  plants,  the  bases  of  the 
mountains  on  her  banks  with  her  impetuous  and  resounding  current 
{iyam  iushmeblwr  hisa-khd  ivartijat  sdnu  girindm  tmishebhir  urmibhih  | 
8.  Yasydh  ananto  ahrutas  tveshai  ehwrishnwr  arnavah  |  ama^  charati 
roruvat).  In  ii.  41,  16,  she  is  called  the  best  of  mothers,  of  rivers, 
and  of  goddesses  {amlitame,  nadltame,  devltame). 

In  vii.  96,  4-6,  a  river  god,  called  Sarasvat,  is  assigned  as  a  consort 
to  Sarasvati,  who  rolls  along  his  fertilizing  waters,  and  is  invoked  by 
the  worshippers  who  are  seeking  for  wives  and  offspring,  as  weU  as  for 
plenty  and  protection  {janlyanto  nu  agrmiah  putriyantah  suddnmah  \ 
Sarasvantam  hmdmahe  \  5.  Ye  te  Sarasvah  urmayah  madhumanto  ghri- 
tasekutah  |  tehhir  no  avitd  hJiava  |  6.  Ptpwd&sam  Sarasvatah  stanam 
yo  vihadwrkatah  \  hhakshimahi prajdm  isham). 

In  V.  43,  11,  Sarasvati  is  called  upon  to  descend  from  the  sky,  from, 
the  great- mountain,™  to  the  sacrifice  (a  no  divo  hrihatah  parvatdd  a 
sarasvati  yajatd  gantu  yajnam) ;  and  in  vi.  49,  7,  where  she  is  called 
the  daughter  of  the  lightning  {pdvtravl  hanydy"  and  the  wife  of  a 
hero  {vlra-patnl),^'^  she  is  supplicated  to  combine  with  the  spouses  of 
the  gods  to  afibrd  secure  protection  to  the  worshipper  {gnahAir  achhi- 
d/ram  iaranam  sajoskdh  duradharsham  grinate  karma  yamsat).  In  these 
two  passages  the  poet  may  perhaps  be  considered  as  assigning  a  celes- 
tial origin  to  the  river  as  the  offspring  of  thunder  and  rain. 


«»8  Sayana  says  that  Madtyamiki  Vach,  or  the  goddess  Vach,  who  resides  in  the 
region  intermediate  hetween  heaven  and  earth,  is  here  intended. 

60'  See  Roth,  e.v.,  and  compare  x.  65,  13.  Professor  Miiller,  in  Euhn  and, 
Schleieher's  Beitrage,  etc.,  iii.  448,  assigns  to  paTiravi  the  sense  of  "thnndering." 

008  Sayana  says  her  hnshand  is  Prajapati.    "Would  it  not  rather  be  Sarasvat  f 


SAEASVATI.  341 

In  vi.  61,  11  f.,  she  is  said  to  fill  the  terrestrial  regions  and  the  air 
{apaprmhl  pdrthwani  wu  rajo  antarihsham),  and  to  occupy  three  abodes 
{trisadashthd),  and  to  have  seven  parts  or  be  sevenfold  {sapta-dhdtu). 

When  regarded  as  a  river  nymph,  SarasvatI  is  further  described  as 
an  iron  barrier  or  fortress,  and  a  support,  vii.  95,  1  (quoted  above),  as 
bestowing  wealth,  fatness,  and  fertility,  vii.  95,  2,  and  is  besought  to 
listen  to  the  prayer  of  her  worshippers  at  their  sacrifices,  ibid.  4  {uta 
sya  nah  Sarasvati  jushdna  upairavat  subhagd  yajne  asmin),  to  receive 
their  praises,  to  shelter  and  protect  them  like  a  tree,  ibid.  5  {prati 
stomam  Sarasvati  jmhasva  |  tava  iarman  priyatame  dadhdndh  upa  sthe- 
ydma  iaramm  na  vrihsham),  and  to  grant  reputation  to  the  unrenowned, 
ii.  41,  16  {apraiastah  iva  smasi  praiastim  aniba  nas  Icridhi).  In  vi.  61, 
14,  the  rishi  prays  that  he  may  not  be  removed  from  her  to  regions 
which  are  strange  {md  tvat  ishetrdni  arandni  ganma). 

In  vi.  61,  1,  she  is  represented  as  having  given  to  Vadhrya^va  a  son, 
Sivodasa,  a  canceller  of  his  debts  {iyam  adadad  rahhasam  rinaohyuta^ 
Bivoddsam  Yadhryaivdya  dd&uihe). 

It  is  di£B.cult  to  say  whether  in  any  of  the  passages  in  which  Saras- 
vati is  invoked,  even  in  those  where  she  appears  as  the  patroness  of 
holy  rites,  her  character  as  a  river  goddess  is  entirely  left  out  of  sight. 
In  R.Y.  X.  17,  8,  she  is  described  as  coming  to  the  place  of  sacrifice  in 
the  same  chariot  with  the  oblations  and  the  forefathers  {Sarasvati  yd 
saratham  yaydtha  svadhdhhir  devi  pitrihhir  madanti),  and  as  an  object 
of  adoration;  but,  as  in  a  following  verse  (the  10th),  already  quoted, 
the  Waters  also  are  invoked,  it  would  seem  that  the  goddess  was  there 
regarded  as  connected  with  the  river.  She  is  elsewhere  represented  as 
unctuous  with  butter,  and  as  stimulating,  directing,  and  prospering  the 
devotions  of  the  worshippers,  i.  3,  10,  11;  ii.  3,  8 ;  vi.  61,  4  {choda- 
yantl  sunpitdnam  ehetanti  sumatlndm  yajnam  dadhe  Sarasvati  |  Sarasvati 

sddhayantl  dhiyaHi  nah  \  pra  no  devl  Sarasvati dhlndm  avitrl 

avatu).  She  afibrds  secure  protection,  conquers  enemies  (ii.  30,  8 ; 
vi.  49,  7),  and  destroys  the  revilers  of  the  gods  (vi.  61,  3).  She 
is  dreadful,  moves  along  a  golden  path,™'  and  is  a  destroyer  of  Vritra, 

609  SiranymeKrttini.  Sayana  explains  varttini  as  chariot,  and  the  compound  as 
meaning  "having  a  golden  chariot."  The  same  word  occurs  again,  applied  to  a 
river,  in  viii.  26,  18,  where  Sayana  makes  it  mean  "  having  a  golden  path,"  i.e. 
golden  banks.    The  words  rtidra-varttani,  "whose  path  is  dreadfulj"  and  ghrita- 


342  SAEASVATI. 

■n.  61,  7  {ghorS,  hiranyavartmih  \  vritraghni).  The  worshipper  seeks  to 
suck  prosperity  and  riches  of  all  description  from  her  prolific  breasts,"" 
1.  89,  3 ;  i.  164, 49  (jfas  te  stanah  hSayo  yo  mm/6bM.r  yena  viiva  puahyaai 
varyani  \  yo  ratnadhalf  vasmid  yah  sudatrah  Sarasvati  tarn  iha  dMtmie 
hah) ;  yiii.  21,  17 ;  x.  17,  8,  9 ;  ix.  67,  32 ;  she  is  the  receptacle  of  all 
the  powers  of  life,  and  bestows  offspring,  ii.  41, 17  {tve  vUva  Saraavaii 
irita  ayufhsU  deny  am  |  .  .  .  .  pra^afh  devi  dididdhi  nah).  In  x.  184,  2, 
she  is  associated  with  the  deities  who  assist  procreation  {gwrlham  dheM 
8aratvati).  In  ii.  1,11,  Agni  is  identified  with  her,  and  several  other 
goddesses. 

In  K.V.  X.  131,  5  (=Vaj.  S.  x.  34)  where  the  A^vins  are  said  to 
have  defended  Indra,  Sarasvati  also  is  declared  to  have  waited  npon 
him.  And  in  Taj.  S.  xix.  12,  it  is  said,  "The  gods  celebrated  a  heal- 
ing sacrifice;  the  A^vins  physicians,  and  Sarasvati  too  a  physician, 
through  speech,  communicated  vigour  to  Indra"  (see  above,  p.  94, 
note).  The  A^vins  and  Sarasvati  are  also  connected  with  each  other 
inVaj.  S.  xix.  12,  15,  18,  34,  80-83,  88-90,  93-95;  xx.  56-69, 
73-76,  90.  In  xix.  94,  it  is  said  that  "  Sarasvati,  wife  of  the  Asvins, 
holds  a  well-formed  embryo  in  her  womb.  Varuna,  king  in  the  waters, 
produced  Indra  for  glory,  by  the  aqueous  fluid,  as  if  by  a  sama  verse," 
xix.  94  {Sai^asvati  yonydm  garlham  antar  Asvihhyam  patnl  mhritam 
Mbharti  \  a/paih  rasena  Varum  na  samna  Indraih  iriyai  Janaydnn 
apsu  rSjd). 

It  does  not  appear  that  in  the  R.Y.  Sarasvati  is  identified  with 
Vach.  For  some  passages  of  that  collection,  in  which  the  latter 
goddess  is  celebrated,  I  refer  to  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  253  ff., 
and  to  a  later  section  of  this  volume. 

In  the  later  mythology,  as  is  well  known,  SaraSvaiti  was  identified 
with  Yach,  and  became  under  different  names  the  spouse  of  Brahma, 
and  the  goddess  of  wisdom  and  eloquence,  and  is  invoked  as  a  Muse. 
In  the  Mahabharata  she  is  called  the  mother  of  the  Yedas  (S^antiparva, 
verse  12920),  and  the  same  is  said  of  Yach  in  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8, 

varttanz,  "  whose  path  is  unctuous,"  are  also  applied  to  dififerent  deities  in  the  Eig- 
veda.  Krishna-varttcmi,  "  he  whose  path  is  marked  by  blackness,"  is  an  epithet  of 
Agni,  in  viii.  23, 19,  and  the  sense  of  that  term  is  fixed  by  the  use  of  the  synonym 
krishnadhoan.  The  substantive  varttani  occurs  in  vii.  18, 16;  vrijina-varttani,  i.  31, 6. 
""  Compare  Ait.  Br.  ir.  1,  at  the  end,  where  her  two  breasts  are  said  to  be  truth 
and  falsehood. 


APAS,  THE  "WATERS,  AND  THE  EIYERS.  343 

8,  5,°"  where  (and  in  the  preceding  par.  4,)  she  is  also  said  to  be  the 
wife  of  Indra,  to  contain  within  herself  all  worlds,  and  to  have  been 
sought  after  by  the  rishis  who  composed  the  Vedic  hymns  {rishayo 
mantra-kritah),  as  well  as  by  the  gods,  through  austerity. 

In  the  S'antiparva,  verse  6811,  it  is  related  that  when  the  Brah- 
marshis  were  performing  austerities,  prior  to  the  creation  of  the  uni- 
verse, "a  voice  derived  &om  Brahma  entered  into  the  ears  of  them  all ; 
the  celestial  SarasvatI  was  then  produced  from  the  heavens."  °" 

(2)  Apas,  the  Waters,  and  the  Rivers. 

A  verse  (x.  17, 10)  has  been  already  cited,  in  p.  338,  in  which  the  puri- 
fying virtue  of  the  Waters  is  extoUed ;  and  there  is  another  passage, 
i.  23,  22  (=  X.  9,  8),  in  which  the  power  of  cleansing  the  worshipper 
from  the  sins  of  violence,  cursing,  and  falsehood  is  ascribed  to  them 
{idam  dpah  pra  vahata  yat  kineha  duritam  mayi  \  yad  vd  ahwm  ahhidu- 
droha  yad  vd  Sepe  utdnritam).  They  are  said,  in  two  passages,  already 
cited  in  p.  205,  to  have  given  birth  to  Agni ;  a  few  separate 
hymns,  vii.  47  ;  vii.  49 ;  x.  9,  are  devoted  to  their  honour ;  and  ia 
numerous  detached  verses  they  are  invoked  along  with  other  deities. 
I  cite  a  hymn  in  which  the  Sindhu  (Indus)  and  other  rivers  are 
celebrated : — 

E.V.  X.  75,  1 :  Pra  su  vah  dpo  mahimdnam  uttamaM  kdrur  voehdti 
tadane  vivasvata^  \  pra  sapta  sapta  tredhd  hi  chakramuh  pra  sritvarindm 
ati  Sindhter  oj'asd  \  2.  Pra  te  'radad  Varuno  ydtave  pathah  Sindho  yad 
vajdn  abhi  adravas  tvam  \  hhumy&h  adhi  pravatd  ydti  sdnund  yad  eshdm 
agram  jagatdm  vra^yasi  \  3.  J)i/oi  svano  yatate  IJiumya  upa/ri  anantam 
imhmam  vd  iyarti  hhdnund  |  abhrdd  iva  prastanayanti  vrishtayah 
Sindhitr  yad  eti  vrishabho  na  roruvat  |  4.  Abhi  tvd  Sindho  siSum  in  na 

5'i  In  the  S'atap.  Br.  vii.  5,  2,  62,  it  is  said,  "Mind  is  the  ocean.  From  mind, 
the  ocean,  the  gods,  with  Vach  for  a  shovel,  dug  out  the  triple  science  («.e.  the  three 
Vedas).  Wherefore  this  verse  (floka)  has  been  uttered "  (see  the  3rd  vol.  of  this 
■Work,  p.  9,  etc.  In  the  Bhishma-p.  of  the  M.  Bh.  verse  3019,  Achyuta  (Krishna) 
is  said -to  have  created  Sarasvati  and  the  Vedas  from  his  mind.  In  the  Vana-p.  verse 
13432,  the  Gayatrl  is  called  the  mother  of  the  Vedas. 

"'  Compare  the  verse  quoted  by  S'ankara  on  the  Brahma  sutras  (see  the  3rd  vol. 
of  this  Work,  pp.  16  and  104),  from  a  Smpti :  "  In  the  beginning  a  celestial  voice, 
formed  of  the  Vedas,  eternal,  -without  beginning  or  end,  was  uttered  by  Svayambhu, 
from  which  all  activities  have  proceeded." 


344  APAS,  THE  VATEES,  AND  THE  EIVERS. 

mdt(wa^  vairdh  arahanti  payaaeva  dhenmah  \  rajeva  yudhva  nayaai  ivam 
it  aichau  yai  dadm  agram  primaidm  mahhaai  |  5  (=Nir.  ix.  26). 
Imam  me  Gamge  Tamune  Sarasvati  8'utudri  atomam  aachata  Pa/rusJini  d  \ 
Asiknyd  Marud/vridhe  Vitaatayd  Arjihlye  ^rinuM  a  Suahomwyd  \  6. 
Triahtamayd  prathamam  ydtave  aq/u^  Suaartva  Rasayd  S'vetyd  tyd  \  tvam 
Sindho  Kulhayd  Gomatlm  Krumum  Mehatmd  aaratham  ydlhir  lyaae  \ 
7.  ^ijUi  eni  rtisatl  mahitvd  pmri  jraydmai  hharate  rajdmai  \  adabdhd 
Sindhur  apaadm  apaatamd  aivd  na  chitrd  vapuahi  iva  dmrsatd  \  8. 
Svaivd  Sindhuh  aurathd  auvdadh  hiranyayl  auTcritd  vdjinivatl  \  urndvatl 
ymatih  silamdvatt  uiddhi  vaate  aulhaga  madhmridham  \  9  (=Nir.  vii. 
7).  S'ukham  ratham  yuyuje  Sindhur  aivinam  tena  vdjam  aanialtod  aaminn 
djau  I  mahan  hi  aaya  mahimd  panaayate  adabdhaaya  avaya^aao  virapiinah  \ 

"1.  "Waters,  let  the  poet  declare  your  transcendant  greatness  in  the 
abode  of  the  worshipper.  Each  set  of  seven  [streams]  has  followed  a 
threefold  course.  The  Sindhu  surpasses  the  other  rivers  in  impetuosity. 
2.  Varuna  hollowed  out  the  channels  of  thy  course,  o  Sindhu,  -when 
thou  didst  rush  to  thy  contests.  Thou  flowest  from  [the  heights  of] 
the  earth  over  a  downward  slope,  when  thou  leadest  the  van  of  these 
streams.  3.  A  sound  struggles  onward  in  the  sky  above  the  earth. 
[The  current]  exerts  an  infinite  force  with  a  flash.  Showers  thunder 
as  if  [falling]  from  a  cloud  ;  when  the  Sindhu  rolls  on,  it  roars  like  a 
buU.  4.  To  thee,  o  Sindhu,  the  [other  streams]  rush,  as  lowing 
mother-cows  with  their  milk  to  their  calves.  Like  a  warrior  king 
[in  the  centre  of  his  army]  thou  leadest  the  two  wings  of  thy  host 
when  thou  strugglest  forward  to  the  van  of  these  torrents.  5.  Eeceive 
favourably  this  my  hymn,  o  Ganga,  Yamuna,  Sarasvati,  S'utudri,  Paru- 
shni ;  hear,  o  Marudvridha,  with  the  Asikni,  and  Vitasta,  and  thou, 
Aqiktya  with  the  Sushoma.  6.  Unite  first  in  thy  course  with  the 
Trishtama,  the  Sasartu,  the  Easa,  and  the  S'vetl ;  thou  [meetest]  the 
GomatI,  and  the  Krumu  with  the  Eubha,  and  the  Mehatnu,  and  with 
them  are  borne  onward  as  on  the  same  car.  7.  Flashing,  sparkling, 
gleaming,  in  her  majesty,  the  unconquerable,  the  most  abundant  of 
streams,  beautiful  as  a  handsome  spotted  mare,  the  Sindhu  roUs  her 
waters  over  the  levels.  8.  Mistress  of  a  chariot,  with  noble  horses, 
richly  dressed,  golden,  adorned,  yielding  nutriment,  abounding  in 
wool,   youthful,  rich  in  plants,^"  gracious,  she  traverses  [a  laud] 

'"  On  the  word  silamaDati  and  the  following  words  of  the  line  in  which  it  occurs, 


THE  APSAEASES.  345 

yielding  sweetness  [?].  9.  The  Sindhu  has  yoked  her  pleasant  chariot 
drawn  by  horses.  By  it  may  she  grant  us  vigour  in  this  struggle : 
for  greatly  celebrated  is  the  glory  of  that  unconquered,  illustrious, 
and  much-lauded  [chariot]. 

In  one  place,  vi.  50,  7,  the  "Waters  are  said  to  be  remedial  and  the 
mothers  of  all  things  fixed  and  moving  {yuyam  hi  stha  IMshajo  matri- 
tamah  vUvasya  sthatw  jm/ato  jcmitrlh). 

(3)  TJte  Apsarases. 

These  goddesses  have  been  already  mentioned  in  the  section  on 
Tama,  p.  309,  and  will  be  farther  adverted  to  below. 

In  the  passage  of  the  E.V.  vii.  33,  10  ff.,  quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of 
this  work,  p.  320,  the  Eishi  Vasishtha  is  said  to  have  sprung  from  an 
Apsaras,  Urvasl.  In  the  dictionary  of  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth 
the  Apsarases  are  described  as  female  beings  of  a  ghost-like  description, 
whose  abode  is  in  the  atmosphere.  They  are  the  wives  of  the  Grand- 
harvas,  have  the  power  of  changing  their  forms,  love  playing  at  dice, 
and  impart  good  luck.  According  to  the  A.V.  the  Apsarases  are  feared 
like  other  ghostly  beings,  and  enchantments  are  employed  against 
them  ;  especially  because  they  cause  madness. 

Professor  Goldstucker,  s.v.  says :  "  Originally  these  divinities  seem 
to  have  been  personifications  of  the  vapours  which  are  attracted  by  the 
sun,  and  form  into  mist  or  clouds."     (See  full  details  in  his  article.) 

(4)  Agnayi,  Ya/runani,  etc. 

Excepting  Prithivi,  Aditi,  and  Ushas,  most  of  the  other  goddesses 
mentioned  in  the  Eig-veda  are,  as  I  have  already  intimated,  p.  337,  of 
very  little  importance.  Agnayi;  Varunani,  A^vini,  and  Eodasi,'"  the 
wives  of  Agn'i,  Varuna,  the  A^vins,  and  Eudra  respectively  (Nirukta, 
ix.  33  f. ;  xi.  50 ;  xii.  46),  are  only  alluded  to  in  a  few  passages,  E.V. 
i.  22, 12  ;  ii.  32,  8;  v.  46,  8  ;  vi.  50,  5  ;  vi.  66,  6  ;  vii.  34,  22.  No 
distinct  functions  are  assigned  to  them,  and  they  do  not  occupy  posi- 

I  subjoin  Sayana's  note,  for  a  copy  of  which  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Max  Miiller : 
X.  75,  8  :  silamavatt  airani  ya/yosliadhya  rajjuhhutwya  hhadhyoMte  {fiadhyanU  ?)  sa 
silameti  nigadyate  hrishwalaili  \  tadrigosTiadhytipeta  utapi  cha  sulJiaga  aindhw 
madhuvridham  madhtwardhakam  nirgimdyadi  adhivaate  achhadayati  taayaa  tire 
nirgundyadini  hahuni  santi, 

»'«  According  to  Sayana  (on  i.  167,  6)  Eodasi  is  marut-patm  vidyud  va,  "The 
wife  of  the  Maruts,  or  Lightning." 


346  S'EADDHA. 

tions  at  all  corresponding  to  the  rank  of  their  husbands,  with  whom 
in  fact  they  are  never  associated.  The  insignificance  of  these  goddesses 
forms  a  striking  contrast  to  the  prominent  place  assumed  by  the  spouses 
of  S'iva  and  Tishnu,  especially  the  former,  in  the  later  mythology .^ 
Nirriti  is  the  goddess  of  destruction. 

(S)  Aranyani. 

Aranyani  (Mr.  ix.  29,  30)  is  the  goddess  of  forest  solitude.  She  is 
celebrated  in  E.V.  x.  146,  which  I  shall  translate  in  a  succeeding 
section. 

(6)  Ralca,  SinivaM,  and  OungO.. 

Eaka,  SiniTalT,  and  Gungu  (whom  Sayana,  on  ii.  32,  8,  identifies 
with  Kuhu),  are  three  other  goddesses  mentioned  in  the  R.V.  (the  first 
in  ii.  32,  4,  5,  8 ;  v.  42,  12 ;  the  second  in  ii.  32,  6  if. ;  x.  184,  2 ; 
and  the  third  in  ii.  32,  8).  Sayana  (on  ii.  32,  4)  says  that  Eaka  is 
the  full  moon.^'*  She  is,  however,  closely  connected  with  parturition, 
as  she  is  asked  to  "  sew  the  work"  (apparently  the  formation  of  the 
embryo)  "with  an  unfailing  needle,  and  to  bestow  a  son  with  abundant 
wealth,"  ii.  32,  4  {slvyatv  a/pah  suchyd,  acKhidyamanayd  daddtu  vlrafii 
iataddyam  uhthyam).  Sinlvali  and  Euhu  are  (as  we  are  told  by  Taska, 
Nir.  xi.  31)  wives  of  the  gods  according  to  the  mythologists  {nairuMdh), 
and  the  two  nights  of  the  new  moon  {amavasye)  according  to  the  ritu- 
alists (yajniMh),  Sinlvali  being  the  earlier,  and  Kuhu  the  later.  Sinivali 
is,  however,  also  connected  with  parturition,  being  called  prithmhthulca, 
"the  broad-loined  (or  "bushy-haired"),  iahusuvmi,,  "the  prolific;" 
sulahu,  "  the  handsome-armed  ; "  svangwi,  "  the  handsome-fingered, 
being  supplicated  for  progeny,  ii.  32,  6,  7  {prajdM  devi  dididdhi  nah), 
and  asked  to  bestow  pregnancy,  x.  184,  2  {gwrhhaM  dhehi  SinivaM); 
A.V.  v.  25,  3 ;  vi.  11,  3.  Taska  quotes  from  the  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  3,  11,  a 
verse  regarding  Kuhu,  whose  name  does  not  occur  in  the  Eig-veda. 
See  also  the  account  of  Anumati  in  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  B.i), 

(7)  S'raddha. 

Personifications  of  abstract  ideas  are  not  uncommon  in  the  Eig-veda, 
one  hymn  of  which  (x.  151)  is  addressed  to  S'raddha,  or  religious  faith. 
By  her,  it  is  said,  verse  1  (=Nir.  ix.  31),  "the  (sacrificial)  fire  is 

s<!>  On  these  goddesses  see  Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  t.  223  S.  and  237. 


S'EADDHA.  347 

kindled,  and  by  her  the  oblation  is  offered  up  "  {sraddhaya  'gni^  sami- 
dhyate  iraddhaya  Myate  luiviJf).  She  is  asked  to  prosper  the  liberal 
worshippers  of  the  gods  (verses  2,  3),  and  to  impart  faith ;  and  is  said 
to  be  an  object  of  adoration  in  the  morning,  at  noon,  and  at  sunset 
(verse  5).  In  the  Vaj.  Sanhita,  xix.  30,  it  is  said  that  faith  {iraddha) 
is  obtained  by  gifts,  and  truth  by  faith  (dahhind  iraddham  apnoti 
iraddhayd  satyam  apyate).  In  xix.  77  of  the  same  work  it  is  declared 
that  "Prajapati,  beholding,  made  a  distinction  between  the  forms  of 
truth  and  falsehood,  connecting  disbelief  with  the  latter,  and  faith  or 
belief  with  the  former  "  {drishtva  rape  vyaka/rot  satydnrite  Prajapatih  \ 
akraddhdm  anrite  'dadhdt  iraddhdm  satye  Prajdpatil^).  This  declara- 
tion, that  truth  is  the  only  proper  object  of  faith,  has  a  far  deeper 
signification  than  this  ancient  writer  could  possibly  have  assigned  to 
it,  viz.,  that  it  is  the  ultimate  truth,  and  not  the  so-called  orthodoxy 
of  any  proposition,  which  can  alone  entitle  it  to  reception. 

S'raddha  is  also  celebrated  in  the  Taitt.  Br.,  ii.  8,  8,  6  f.,  where  the 
above  hymn  of  the  Kig-veda  is  repeated ;  and  she  is  there  further  said 
to  dwell  among  the  gods,  to  be  the  universe  (Jraddhd  devdn  adhivaste 
Sraddhd  vUvam  idamjagat),  and  the  mother  of  Kama.  (See  the  next 
Section).  In  the  same  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  1,  we  are  told  that  through 
S'raddha  a  god  obtains  his  divine  character,  that  the  divine  S'raddha  is 
the  support  of  the  world,  that  she  has  Kama  (or  the  f  alfilment  of 
desire)  for  her  calf,  and  yields  immortality  as  her  milk;  that  she  is 
the  firstborn  of  the  religious  ceremonial,  and  the  sustainer  of  the 
whole  world ;  and  she,  who  is  the  supreme  mistress  of  the  world, 
is  besought  to  bestow  immortality  on  her  worshippers  {iroddhayd  deto 
devatvam  ainute  \  S'raddha  pratishtha  lolcasya  devi  |  .  .  .  .  Kama/oatsd 
amritam  duikdna  \  S'raddha  devi  prathamajd  ritasya  \  viivasya  Ihartrl 
jagatah  pratishthd  |  tdm  S'raddhdm  havishd  yajdmahe  \  sd  no  lokam 
amritd&  dadhatu  lidnd  devi  Ihv/oanasyddhipatni).  In  the  S'atap.  Br., 
xii.  7,  3,  11,  she  is  called  the  daughter  of  Surya;^''  an  appellation 
which  is  repeated  in  the  M.  Bh.  S'antiparva,  verse  9449,°"  where  she 

n«  See  what  is  said  of  the  daughter, of  Surya  ahove,  in  connection  with  the  A^Tins. 

'"  In  this  passage  a  great  deal  is  said  in  praise  of  S'raddha.  The  gods,  it  appears, 
had  decided  that  the  offerings  of  a  niggardly  student  of  the  Veda  and  a  liberal  usurer 
were  of  equal  value.  But  Prajapati  determined  that  they  were  wrong  (see  the  same 
sentiment,  in  nearly  the  same  words,  in  Manu,  iy.  224  &.),  and  that  the  liberal  man's 
oblation,  being  purified  by  his  faith,  was  to  be- accepted,  whilst  the  other  man's,  being 


348  LAKSHMI  AND  S'RI. 

is  styled  the  daughter  of  Vivasvat  (S'raddha  Vaivasvati),  as  well  as  of 
Surya  and  Savitri  (Suryasya  duhita  and  Savitrl).  (See  above,  p.  264  f., 
,  the  story  of  Soma  loving  S'raddha.     See  also  the  definition  given  of 
Aramati  in  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.v.) 

(8)  Lakshmi  and  S'rl. 

Lakshmi  is  not  found  in  the  Eig-veda,  in  the  sense  which  the  word 
bears  in  the  later  mythology,  of  a  goddess  personifying  good  fortune, 
though  the  word  itself  occurs  in  x.  71,  2,"^  in  a  kindred  signification. 
In  the  A. v.,  however,  we  have  the  following  hymn,  which  speaks  of 
a  plurality  of  Lakshmis,  some  good  and  some  bad:  vii.  115,  1 :  Pra 
patetalf  papi  Lakshmi  naiyetah  prdmutah  pata  \  ayasma/yena  ankena 
dvishaie  tva  sajamaai  \  2.  Ta  ma  Lahshmlh  patayalur  qfushta  abhioha- 
skanda  vandaneva  vrishsham  |  anyairasmat  Savitas  tarn  Ho  dhdh  hiranya- 
hasto  vasu  no  rardnah  \  3.  Ukaiatam  Lahihmyo  martyasya  sdkam  tawed 
janusho  'dhi  jdtdh,  \  tdsdm  pdpish{hdh  nir  itah  pra  Mtmah  iivdh  asma- 
hhyam  jdtavedo  ni  yachha  |  4.  £tdh  evd  vydharam  Ichile  gdh  nishthitdh 
iva  I  ramantam  punydh  Ldkshmlr  ydjkpapis  tdh  anlnasam  \  "  Fly  away 
hence,  o  unlucky  (or  miserable)  Lakshmi,  perish  hence,  fly  away  from 
thence  :  with  an  iron  hook  we  fasten  thee  to  our  enemy.  2.  Savitri, 
do  thou  who  art  golden-handed,  bestowing  on  us  wealth,  send  away 
from  us  to  some  other  quarter  the  flying  and  hateful  Lakshmi,  who 
mounts  upon  me  as  a  creeper  °"  upon  a  tree.  3.  A  hundred  Lakshmis 
are  born  together  with  the  body  of  a  mortal  at  his  birth.     Of  these  we 

vitiated  by  his  unbelief,  was  to  be  rejected.  Unbelief,  it  is  added,  is  the  greatest  of 
sins,  but  faith  takes  away  sin  {drnmli  vittam  amamyamta  sadniam  yajna-karmani  | 
s'rotriyasya  Jcada/ryasya.  vadanyasya  cha  vardhusheh  \  wiimamsitvobhrn/mn  devah 
samam  armam  akalpa/ycm  \  Prajapatis  tarn  wodeha  "vishamam  kritam"  ity  uta  \ 
sraddha-putam  vadamyasya  hatam  asraddhayetarat  |  .  . ; .  asraddha  paramam  papam 
iraddha  papapramookam).  A  similar  sentiment  is  expressed  in  the  Vana-parva, 
13461  ff. :  "  The  doubter  enjoys  neither  this  world  nor  the  next,  nor  any  gratification. 
Those  ancient  sages  who  possess  true  knowledge  have  said  that  faith  is  a  sign  of  final 

liberation Abandoning  fruitless  (lit.  dry)  argumentations  adhere  to  the  8'ruti 

and  the  smriti "  {niyem  loko  'sti  na  paro  na  sukham  samsayatmanali  \  uchur  jndna- 
vido  vriddhah  pratyayo  moksha-lakshanam  \  smhka-tarkam  parityajya  a^rayasva 
irutim  smritim), 

"'  In  the  words  bhadra  esham  lakshmi  nihita  adhi  vaohi,  "  an  auspicious  fortune 
is  attached  to  their  words." 

"»  Vandana.  This  word  does  not  occur  in  Wilson's  Dictionary,  but  I  find  there 
vanda  in  the  sense  of  a  creeping  plant. 


LAKSHMI  AND  S'EI.  349 

chase  away  hence  the  most  unlucky.  Do  thou,  Jatavedas,  retain  for 
us  those  which  are  fortunate.  4.  Thus  I  divide  them  like  cows 
standing  upon  barren  ground.  May  those  Lakshmis  which  are  auspi- 
cious rest  here.  Those  which  are  unlucky  I  destroy."  (The  ex- 
'piession  puny  a.  Lakshmi  occurs  also  in  A.V.  xii.  5,  6.) 

In  the  Vaj.  S.  xxxi.  22  {S'rii  oha  te  Lakslmii  cha patnyau),  S'rl  and 
Lakshmi  are  said  to  be  the  two  wives  of  Aditya,  according  to  the  com- 
mentator's explanation.  In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  4,  3,  1,  S'rl  is  described 
as  issuing  forth  from  Prajapati  when  he  was  performing  intense 
austerity,  with  a  view  to  the  creation  of  living  beings.  Beholding  her 
then  standing  resplendent  and  trembling,*'"'  the  gods  were  covetous  of 
her,  and  proposed  to  Prajapati  that  they  should  be  allowed  to  kill  her, 
and  appropriate  her  gifts.  He  replied  that  she  was  a  female,  and  that 
males  did  not  generally  kiU  females.  They  should  therefore  take  from 
her  her  gifts  without  depriving  her  of  life.  In  consecLuence,  Agni 
took  from  her  food ;  Soma,  kingly  authority ;  Varuna,  imperial 
authority ;  Mitra,  martial  energy ;  Indra,  force ;  Brihaspati,  priestly 
glory;  Savitri,  dominion ;  Pushan,  splendour ;  SarasvatI,  nourishment ; 
and  Tvashtri,  forms.  S'ri  then  complained  to  Prajapati  that  they  had 
taken  all  these  things  from  her.  He  told  her  to  demand  them  back 
from  them  by  sacrifice  (Pre^apaiir  vai  prqjdh  sryamano  Hapyata  \ 
tasmdt  irantat  tepanat  S'rir  udalcramat  \  sa  dipyamdna  ITwajamana 
lelayantl  atishthat  \  tarn  dlpyamanam  Ihrdjamanarh  leldycmtlm  devdh 
abhyadhyayan  \  2.  Te  Prajdpatim  airman  "handma  imdm  a  idam 
asydh  daddmahai"  iti  \  sa  ha  uvdcha  "  strl  vai  eshd  yat  S'rih  \  na  vai 
striyam  ghnanti  uta  tva  asydh  jlvantydh  eva  ddadata  "  iti  \  3.  Tasydk 
Agnir  annddyam  ddatia  Soma  rajyam  Varunah  sdmrdjyam  Mitrah  ksha- 
tram  Indro  halam  Brihaspatir  brahmavarchasam  Savitd  rdshtram  Pushd 
hhagam  SarasvatI  pushtim  Tvashfa  rupani  \  4.  Sd  Prajdpatim  ahravlt 
"a  vai  me  idam  adishata"  iti  |  aa  ha  uvdcha  "yajnena  endn  punar 
yachasva"  iti). 

5'"  Zelayanfi.  As  fixing  the  sense  of  this  word  Professor  Aufrecht  refers  me  to 
S'atap.  Br.  p.  136  ;  Brihad  Arauyaka  ITp.  p.  737 ;  Mundaka  Up.  pp.  274,  276  ;  and 
S'Tetarfvatara  Up.  p.  332. 


350 


SECTION   XXI. 

PEOGEESS  OP  THE  VEDIC  EELIGION  TOWAEDS  ABSTEACT 
CONCEPTIONS  OF  THE  DEITY.6" 

In  a  passage  which  I  have  already  quoted  above  (p.  8),  Taska,  the 
author  of  the  Nirukta,  informs  us  (vii.  5)  that  previous  writers  of  the 
school  to  which  he  himself  belonged  (the  Nairuktas)  reduced  the 
deities  mentioned  in  the  Vedas  to  three,  viz.,  "Agni,  whose  place  is 
on  the  earth ;  Vayu  or  Indra,  whose  place  in  the  air ;  and  Surya, 
whose  place  is  in  the  sky ; "  and  asserted  that  "  these  deities  severally 
receive  many  appellations  in  consequence  of  their  greatness,  or  of  the 
diversity  of  their  functions,  as  the  names  of  hotri,  adhma/ryu,  Irahtnan, 
and  udgatri,  are  applied  to  one  and  the  same  person  [according  to  the 
particular  sacrificial  oflS.ce  which  he  happens  to  be  fulfilling]."  In  the 
preceding  section  (vii.  4)  Taska  had,  however,  declared  that,  in  reality, 
"  owing  to  the  greatness  of  the  deity,  the  one  Soul  is  celebrated  as  if  it 
were  many.  The  diflferent  gods  are  separate  members  of  the  one  Soul. 
And  some  say  that  the  rishis  address  their  praises  according  to  the 
multiplicity  of  natures  in  the  [celestial]  existences.  And  from  the  uni- 
versality of  their  nature  the  gods  are  mutually  produced  from  each 
other,  and  possess  the  natures  of  one  another  (see  K. V.  x.  7,  4  f.  above,  < 
p.  48,  and  Nir.  xi.  23,  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  11) ; 
they  are  produced  from  works ;  they  are  produced  from  soul.  It  is 
soul  that  is  their  chariot,  soul  their  horses,  soul  their  weapon,  soul 
their  arrows  ;  soul  is  a  god's  all "  ^'^  [mahatmyad  devatdydh  ekah  atmd 
bahudhd  stuyate  |  ekasya  atmano  'm/e  devah  pratyanyani  hhcnanti  \  api 
cha  sattvdndm  prakriti-hhumahhir  rishayah  stweanti  ity  dhuh  \  prakriti- 
adrvandmnydch  cha  itaretara-janmdno    Ihavanti  itaretara-praJcriiayah 

*2'  In  yarious  parts  of  the  translations  occurring  in  this  section  I  received  valnahle 
assistance  from  Professor  Aufreoht. 
"2  This  passage  is  quoted  at  length  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  131-136. 


PROGRESS  OF  THE  VEDIC  RELIGION.  851 

karmafanmanah  atmaj'anmdna^  \  atma  eva  eshdm  ratho  Ihmaty  atma 
aivdh  dtmd  dyudham  dtmd  ishavah  dtmd  sarvam  devasya).  These, 
ho-weyer,  are  the  views  of  men  who  lived  after  the  compilation  of  the 
Brahmanas,  at  a  period  when  reflection  had  long  been  exercised  upon 
the  contents  of  the  hymns,  and  when  speculation  had  already  made 
considerable  advances.  In  the  oldest  portions  of  the  hymns  themselves 
we  discover  few  traces  of  any  such  abstract  conceptions  of  the  Deity. 
They  disclose  a  much  more  primitive  stage  of  religious  belief.  They 
are,  as  I  have  already  remarked,  the  productions  of  simple  men  who, 
under  the  influence  of  the  most  impressive  phenomena  of  nature,  saw 
everywhere  the  presence  and  agency  of  divine  powers,  who  imagined 
that  each  of  the  great  provinces  of  the  universe  was  directed  and 
animated  by  its  own  separate  deity,  and  who  had  not  yet  risen  to  a 
clear  idea  of  one  supreme  creator  and  governor  of  all  things  (pp.  5  f.). 
This  is  shown,  not  only  by  the  special  functions  assigned  to  particular 
gods,  but  in  many  cases  by  the  very  names  which  they  bear,  corres- 
ponding to  those  of  some  of  the  elements  or  of  the  celestial  luminaries. 
Thus,  according  to  the  belief  of  the  ancient  rishis,  Agni  was  the  divine 
being  who  resides  and  operates  in  fire,  Surya  the  god  who  dwells  and 
shines  in  the  sun,  and  Indra  the  regent  of  the  atmosphere,  who  cleaves 
the  clouds  with  his  thunderbolts  and  dispenses  rain.  WhUe,  however, 
in  most  parts  of  the  Eig-veda,  we  not  only  find  that  such  gods  as  Agni, 
Indra,  and  Surya  are  considered  as  distinct  from,  one  another,  but  that 
various  other  divinities,  more  or  less  akin  to  these,  but  thought  of  as 
fulfilling  functions  in  some  respects  distinguishable  from  theirs  (such 
as  Paijanya,  Vishnu,  Savitri,  Pushan,  etc.)  are  represented  as  existing 
along  side  of  them,  there  are  other  hymns  in  which  a  tendency  to  iden- 
tification is  perceptible,  and  traces  are  found  of  one  uniform  power 
being  conceived  to  underlie  the  various  manifestations  of  divine  energy. 
Thus  in  the  texts  quoted  in  a  former  section  (pp.  206  ff.),  Agni  is  repre- 
sented as  having  a  threefold  existence,  by  which  may  be  intended, 
first,  in  his  familiar  form  on  earth  ;  secondly,  as  lightning  in  the 
atmosphere;  and  thirdly,  as  the  sun  in  the  heavens.  In  other  pas- 
sages, where  the  same  god  is  identified  with  Vishnu,  Varuna,  Mitra, 
etc.  (see  p.  219),  it  is  not  clear  whether  this  identification  may  not 
arise  from  a  desire  to  magnify  Agni  rather  than  from  any  idea  of  his 
essential  oneness  with  other  deities  with  whom  he  ia  connected  (sed 


352  PROGRESS  OF  THE  VEDIC  RELIGION. 

also  E.V.  i.  141,  9  ;  v.  3,  1  f. ;  v.  13,  6).  In  another  hymn,  iv.  42, 
3,  too,  -where  Indra  appears  to  be  represented  as  the  same  with  Varuna 
{aham  Indro  Varunah,  etc. ;  compare  the  context),  the  design  of  the 
writer  may  have  been  to  place  the  former  god  on  a  footing  of  equality 
with  the  latter.  There  are,  however,  other  passages  in  the  earlier  books 
of  the  Eig-veda  which  suffice  to  show  that  the  writers  had  begun  to  re- 
gard the  principal  divinities  as  something  more  than  mere  representa- 
tives or  regents  of  the  different  provinces  of  nature.  As  I  have  already 
shown  (pp.  61  ff.,  98  ff.,  158,  163  f.,  214  f.),  Varuna,  Indra,  Surya, 
Savitri,  and  Agni  are  severally  described  (in  strains  more  suitable  to 
the  supreme  deity  than  to  subaltern  divinities  exercising  a  limited  do- 
minion) as  having  formed  and  as  sustaining  heaven  and  earth,  and  as 
the  rulers  of  the  universe ;  ^"^  and  Varuna,  in  particular,  according  to 
the  striking  representation  of  the  hymn  preserved  in  the  A.V.  (iv.  16) 
(though  this  composition  may  be  of  a  somewhat  later  date),  is  invested 
with  the  divine  prerogatives  of  omnipresence  and  omniscience.  Al- 
though the  recognized  co-existence  of  all  these  deities  is  inconsistent 
with  the  supposition  that  their  worshippers  had  attained  to  any  clear 
comprehension  of  the  unity  of  the  godhead,  and  although  the  epithets 
denoting  universal  dominion,  which  are  lavished  upon  them  aU  in  turn, 
may  be  sometimes  hyperbolical  or  complimentary — the  expressions  of 
momentary  fervour,  or  designed  to  magnify  a  particular  deity  at  the 
expense  of  all  other  rival  objects  of  adoration, — yet  these  descriptions  no 
doubt  indicate  enlarged  and  sublime  conceptions  of  divine  power,  and 
an  advance  towards  the  idea  of  one  sovereign  deity.  "When  once  the 
notion  of  particular  gods  had  become  expanded  in  the  manner  just 
specified,  and  had  risen  to  an  ascription  of  all  divine  attributes  to  the 
particular  object  of  worship  who  was  present  for  the  time  to  the  mind  of 
the  poet,  the  further  step  would  speedily  be  taken  of  speaking  of  the 
deity  under  such  new  names  as  Visvakarman  and  Prajapati,  appella- 
tions which  do  not  designate  any  limited  function  connected  with  any 
single  department  of  nature,  but  the  more  general  and  abstract  notion 
of  divine  power  operating  in  the  production  and  government  of  the 
universe. 
It  is,  perhaps,  in  names  such  as  these  that  we  may  discover  the  point 

"3  The  same  functions  are  ascribed  to  Vishnu  and  to  Eudra.    See  the  4th  vol.  of 
this  "Work,  pp.  84  and  338. 


TEXTS  OP  A  MONOTHEISTIC  OE  PANTHEISTIC  CHAEACTER.     353 

of  transition  from  polytheistic  to  monotheistio  ideas.  Both  these  two 
terms,  which  ultimately  came  to  designate  the  deity  regarded  as  the 
creator,  had  heen  originally  used  as  epithets  of  Indra  and  Savitri,  in 
the  following  passages : — E.V.  ir.  53,  2,  "  Savitri,  the  supporter  of 
the  sky  and  the  lord  of  creatures "  (divo  dharttd  hhmanasya  prajd- 
patih).^-^  viii.  87,  2,  "  Thou,  Indra,  art  most  powerful ;  thou  hast 
caused  the  sun  to  shine ;  thou  art  great,  the  universal  architect,  and 
possessest  all  godlike  attributes  "  {tvam  Ini/ra  alhibhur  asi  tvam  suryam 
arocJiayah  \  visvakarmd  vikadevo  makdn  «««)."' 

(1)  Texts  of  a  more  decidedly  monotheistic  or  pantJteistic  character. 

I  shall  now  adduce  those  passages  of  the  Eig-veda  in  which  a  mono- 
theistic or  a  pantheistic  tendency  is  most  clearly  manifested.  Of  some 
of  these  texts  I  shaU.  only  state  the  substance,  as  I  have  formerly 
treated  of  them  in  detail  elsewhere. 

The  following  verse  from  a  long  hymn  of  an  abstruse  and  mystical 
character  (i.  164,  46,  as  already  quoted  in  p.  219,  note),  though  con- 
sidered by  Taska  (Nir.  vii.  18)  to  have  reference  to  Agni,  and  by 
Katyayana  and  Sayana  (who,  however,  also  quotes  Taska's  opinion)  to 
have  Surya  in  view,  may  nevertheless  be  held  to  convey  the  more 
general  idea  that  all  the  gods,  though  differentlj'  named  and  repre- 
sented, are  in  reality  one— ttoWwi/  ovofiaTcov  fiopAr)  fi[a  '•  "  They 
call  him  Indra,  Mitra,  Varuna,  Agni;  and  (he  is)  the  celestial,  weU- 
winged  Garutmat.  Sages  name  variously  that  which  is  but  one :  they 
call  it  Agni,  Yama,  Matarisvan." '"'  (See  Colebrooke's  Essay,  i.  26  f. ; 
Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  v.  p.  iv.) 

'"  So,  too,  Soma  is  called  ^a?'^ais,  "lord  of  creatures"  (R.V.  is.  5,  9). 

^''  So,  too,  in  E.V.  x.  170,  i,  SiSrya  is  called  vis'vakarman  and  vihadevyavat,  and 
Savitri  is  styled  vidvttdeva  in  v.  82,  7,  see  above,  p.  164.  Svayambhu,  "the  self- 
existent,"  occcurs  as  an  epithet  of  Manyu  (personified  Wrath)  in  E.V.  x.  83,  4.  See 
below  the  sub-section  on  Kala,  Time. 

526  To  the  same  effect  is  another  text,  E.V.  x,  114,  5 :  SMparnam  viprah  Jemayo 
vaehobhir  ekam  santam  bahudha  kalpayanti  \  "  The  wise  in  their  hymns  represent 
under  many  forms  the  well-winged  (deity),  who  is  but  one."  Somewhat  in  the 
same  way  it  is  said,  A.V.  xiii.  3,  13  (already  quoted  in  p.  219,  note)  :  "Agni 
becomes  in  the  evening  Varuna  (the  god  of  night),  and  Mitra,  when  rising  in 
the  morning.  Becoming  Savitri,  he  moves  through  the  atmosphere,  and  becoming 
Indra,  he  bums  along  the  middle  of  the  sky."  In  xiii.  4,  1  ff.,  Savitri  is  identified 
with  a  great  many  other  deities.    The  words  asya  devasya  ,  ,  .  .  vayah  Visllnoh,  in 

23 


354  VISTAKAEMAN. 

E.V.  i.  89,  10  (quoted  above  in  pp.  43  f.),  suggests,  on  the  other 
hand,,  a  pantheistic  sense,  as  it  asserts  all  things  to  be  the  mani- 
festations of  one  all-pervading  principle :  "Aditi  is  the  sky,  Aditi  is 
the  air,  Aditi  is  the  mother  and  father  and  son.  Aditi  is  all  the  gods 
and  the  five  classes  of  men.  Aditi  is  whatever  has  been  bom.  Aditi 
is  whatever  shall  be  bom."  ™  Reference  will  be  again  made  further 
on  to  the  hymn  in  which  Aditi  is  described  as  one  of  the  great  powers 
to  which  the  creation  is  due. 

In  some  of  the  representations  of  the  character  and  functions  of 
Tvashtri,  the  divine  artizan,  who  shaped  the  heaven  and  earth,  we 
have  an  approach  to  the  idea  of  a  supreme  creator  of  the  universe 
(see  above  p.  225). 

There  is  considerable  variety  in  the  methods  by  which  the  later 
poets  of  the  E.V.  attempt  to  conceive  and  express  the  character  of 
the  Supreme  Being  and  his  relations  to  the  universe,  as  will  be  seen 
from  the  following  details : — 

(2)  Viivaharman. 
The  81st  and  82nd  hymns  of  the  tenth  book  of  the  Eig-veda  are 
devoted  to  the  celebration  of  Visvakarman,  the  great  architect  of  the 
universe  (see  above,  p.  32,  and  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  4  ff.) ; 
BO  that  the  word  which,  as  we  have  seen,  had  formerly  been  used  as 
an  epithet  of  Indra,  had  now  become  the  name  of  a  deity,  if  not  of  the 
Deity.  In  these  hymns  Yisvakarman  is  represented  as  the  one  all- 
seeing  god,  who  has  on  every  side  eyes,  faces,  arms,  and  feet,  who, 
when  producing  heaven  and  earth,  blows  '"^  them  forth  with  his  arms 

E.V.  vii.  40,  6,  are  interpreted  by  Sayana  to  mean  "  [The  other  gods]  are  branches 
of  this  ....  god  Yishnu  ; "  but  the  words  between  brackets  are  not  in  the  original. 
In  E.Y.  ii.  39,  8,  all  other  beings  are  said  to  be  branches  of  Apamnapat  {<t>ayah  id 
anya  bhmanani  asya).  I  observe  that  in  his  lectures  on  the  "  Science  of  Language," 
2nd  series,  p.  508,  Professor  Miiller  understands  the  words  with  which  all  the  verses 
of  EV.  iii.  65,  conclude  [mahad  devanam  asuratvam  e/cam)  to  signify,  "  The  great 
divinity  of  the  gods  is  one,"  which  might  be  understood  as  if  they  asserted  all  the 
gods  to  be  manifestations  of  one  supreme  deity.  The  clause,  however,  need  not 
mean  anything  more  than  that  the  divine  power  of  the  gods  is  unique. 

'"  Compare  ^schylus,  fragment  443,  translated  by  Professor  Miiller,  "  Science  of 
Language,"  ii.  441  :  Zds  iariv  &i9J)p,  Zeus  Sk  y^,  Zibs  5'  ovfiiv6r  Zeis  rot  rh  ■aivTii 
X&Ti  T  ufS'  imipTipov,  The  Taitt.  Br.  iu.  12,  3,  1,  says  that  the  self-existent 
Brahma  is  "son,  father,  and  mother." 

''^  This  image  is  repeated  in  E.V.  x.  72,  and  may  have  been  borrowed  &om 
E.V.  iv.  2,  17. 


BEAHMANASPATI,  DAKSHA,  AND  ADITI.  355 

and  wings, — as  tlie  father,  generator,  disposer,  who  knows  all  worlds, 
gives  the  gods  their  names,  and  is  beyond  the  comprehension  of 
mortals.  In  one  of  the  verses  (the  4th)  of  the  first  of  these  hymns, 
the  poet  asks :  "  What  was  the  forest,  what  was  the  tree,  out  of  which 
they  fashioned  heaven  and  earth  ?  Inquire  with  your  minds,  ye  sages, 
what  was  that  on  which  he  took  his  stand  when  supporting  the 
world  ? "  This  verse  is  repeated  in  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6  (and 
comes  in  immediately  after  the  end  of  E.V.  x.  129,  which  is  quoted  in 
the  same  place).  The  compiler  of  the  Brahmana  replies  to  the  question 
which  the  original  poet  had  left  unanswered,  by  saying  r  "  Brahma 
was  the  forest,  Brahma  was  that  tree,  out  of  which  they  fashioned 
heaven  and  earth.  Sages,  with  my  mind  I  declare  to  you,  he  took  his 
stand  upon  Brahma  when  upholding  the  world"  (see  above,  p.  32, 
note  57). 

(3)  HiranyagarlKa. 

Another  name  under  which  the  Deity  is  celebrated  in  the  Eig-veda, 
with  all  the  attributes  of  supremacy,  is  Hiranyagarbba.  In  the  12lBt 
hymn  of  the  tenth  book  this  god  is  said  to  have  arisen  {samavarttata) 
in  the  beginning,  the  one  lord  of  all  beings,  who  upholds  heaven  and 
earth,  who  gives  life  and  breath,,  whose  command  even  the  gods  obey, 
who  is  the  god  over  all  gods,  and  the  one  animating,  principle  (asw)  of 
their  being.     (See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  13  ff.) 

(4)  Brahmanaspati,  Saksha,  and  Aditi. 

In  another  hymn  (R.V.  x.  72  j  already  quoted  in  pp.  48  f.),  the 
creation  of  the  gods  is  ascribed  to  Brahmanaspati  (see  also  p.  280, 
above),  who  blew  them  forth  like  a  blacksmith  j*'"-  while  the  earth  is 
said  to  have  sprung  from  a  being  called  ITttanapad ;  and  Daksha  and 
Aditi  were  produced  from  one  another  by  mutual  generation.  The 
gods,  though  formed  by  Brahmanaspati,  did  not,  it  is  said,  come  into 
existence  till  after  Aditi,  but  appear  to  have  had  some  share  in  the 
formation  or  development  of  the  world. 

The  hymn  is  almost .  entirely  of  a  mythological  character,  the  only 
attempt  at  speculation  it  contains  being  the  declaration  that  entity 
sprang  from  nonentity.     The  manaer  in  which  the  author  endeavours, 

M9  See  pp.  32  and  354. 


356  NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE. 

by  the  introduction  of  different  names,  and  the  ascription  to  them  of 
various  agencies,  to  explain  the  process  of  creation,  forms  a  striking 
contrast  to  the  sublime  vagueness  and  sense  of  mystery  vrhich.  char- 
acterize the  following  composition  (K.V.  x.  129)."° 

(5)  Nonentity,  Entity,  and  the  One,  e.v.  x.  129. 

1.  Na  asad,  dsld  no  sad  asU  taddnim  ndszd  rajo  no  vyoma  paro  yat  \ 
Mm  avariva^  Icuha  kasya  iwrmann  ambhah  Mm  dsid  gahanam  gabhlram  \ 

2.  Na  mrityw  asid  amritam  na  tarhi  na  rdtryah  ahnah  dsit  praketah  \ 
anld  avdta^  madhayd  tad  ekam  tasmdd  ha  anyad  na  parah  kinchandsa  | 

3.  Tamah  dsit  tamasd  gulham  agre  aprahetam  salilam  sarvam  a  idam  | 
tuehhyena  dhhu  apihitam  yad  dsit  tapasas  tad  mahind  'jdyataiham  | 

4.  Kdmas  tad  agre  samavarttatddhi  manaso  reidh  prathamam  yad  dsit  | 
sato  handhum  asati  niravindan  hridi  pratishya  havayo  manishd  \  5 
(=Vaj.  Sanh.  xxxiii.  74).  Tiraschlno  vitato  raimir  eshdm  adhah  svid 
dsld  upari  svid  asit  \  retodhdh  dsan  mahimdnah  dsan  svadhs  avastdt 
prayatih  parastdt  \  6.  Ko  addha  veda  hah  iha  pra  voehai  kutah  ajdtd 
kutah  iyam  visrishfih  |  arvdg  devdh  asya  visa/rjanena  atha  ko  veda  yata^ 
ahabhuva  \  7.  Iyam  visrishtir  yatah  dbalhuva  yadi  vd  dadhe  yadi  vd  na  \ 
yo  asyddh,yalcshah  parame  vyoman  so  anga  veda  yadi  vd  na  veda  \ 

"1.  There  was  then  neither  nonentity  nor  entity :    there  was  no 

""  Tliis  hymn  has  been  already  translated  by  Mr.  Colebrooke  and  Professor  MuUer, 
as  well  as  in  the  4th  toI.  of  this  Work,  p.  4.  I  have  now  endeavoured  to  improve 
my  own  version,  and  otherwise  to  illustrate  the  sense  of  the  hymn.  The  following 
is  a  metrical  rendering  of  its  contents  : — 

"  Then  there  was  neither  Aught  nor  Nought,  no  air  nor  sty  beyond. 

What  covered  all  ?    Where  rested  all  ?    In  watery  gulf  profound  ? 

Nor  death  was  then,  nor  deathlessness,  nor  change  of  night  and  day. 

Tkat  One  breathed  calmly,  self-sustained ;  nought  else  beyond  It  lay. 

Gloom  hid  in  gloom  existed  first— one  sea,  eluding  view. 

That  One,  a  void  in  chaos  wrapt,  by  inward  fervour  grew. 

Within  It  first  arose  desire,  the  primal  germ  of  mind, 

Which  nothing  with  existence  links,  aa  sages  searching  find. 

The  kindling  ray  that  shot  across  the  dark  and  drear  abyss, — 

Was  it  beneath  P  or  high  aloft  ?    What  bard  can  answer  this  ? 

There  fecundating  powers  were  found,  and  mighty  forces  strove, — 

A  self-supporting  mass  beneath,  and  energy  above. 

Who  knows,  who  ever  told,  from  whence  this  vast  creation  rose  ? 

No  gods  had  then  been  bom,^who  then  can  e'er  the  truth  disclose  ? 

Whence  sprang  this  world,  and  whether  framed  by  hand  divine  or  no, — 

It's  lord  in  heaven  alone  can  tell,  if  even  he  can  show." 


NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE.  357 

atmosphere,  nor  sky  above.  What  enveloped  [all]  ?  Where,  in  the 
receptacle  of  what  [was  it  contained]  ?  Was  it  water,  the  profound 
abyss  ?  2.  Beath  was  not  then,  nor  immortality :  there  was  no  dis- 
tinction of  day  or  night.  That  One  ^''  breathed  calmly,  self-supported ; 
there  was  nothing  different  &om,  or  above,  it.  S.  In  the  beginning 
darkness  existed,  enveloped  in  darkness.  All  this  was  undistinguish- 
able  water.''''  That  One  which  lay  void,  and  wrapped  in  nothingness, 
was  developed  by  the  power  of  fervour.  4.  Desire  first  arose  in  It, 
which  was  the  primal  germ  of  mind;  [and  which]  sages,  searching 
with  their  intellect,  have  discovered  in  their  heart  to  be  the  bond 
which  connects  entity  with  nonentity.  5.  The  ray  [or  cord]'''  which 
stretched  across  these  [worlds],  was  it  below  or  was  it  above  ?  There 
were  there  impregnating  powers  and  mighty  forces,  a  self-supporting 
principle  beneath,  'and  energy  aloft."*  6.  Who  knows,  who  here  can 
declare,  whence  has  sprung,  whence,  this  creation  ?  The  gods  are 
subsequent  ''*  to  the  development  of  this  [universe] ;  who  then  knows 
whence  it  arose  ?  7.  From  what  this  creation  arose,  and  whether  [any 
one]  made  it  or  not, — ^he  who  in  the  highest  heaven  is  its  ruler,  he 
verily  knows,  or  [even]  he  does  not  know." 

I  am  not  in  possession  of  Sayana's  commentary  on  this  hymn ;  but 
the  scholiast  on  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana  (see  also  the  explanation  of 
verse  4,  in  commentary  on  Taitt.  Arany.  p.  142)  in  which  the  hymn  is 

5"  Compare  E.V.  i.  164,  6,  "What  was  that  One  in  tlie  form  of  the  unborn  which 
supported  these  six  worlds  ?"  (vi  yaa  tastambha  shal  inia  rajamsi  ajasya  rupe  kim  api 
avid  eJcam),  In  ValakhUya,  x.  2,  it  is  said:  elea  evagnir  bahudha  samiddah  ekafy 
suryo  visvam  anu  prabJiutah  [  ekaivoshah  sarvam  idam  vi  bhati  eJcani  vai  idam  vi 
babhuva  sarvam  \  "  There  is  one  Agni,  kindled  in  many  places ;  one  mighty  Surya 
who  extends  over  all  things ;  one  tTshas  who  illaminates  this  entire  world ; — this  one 
has  been  developed  into  the  all." 

"»  In  the  M.  Bh.  S'antip.  6812  ff.,  it  is  said  that  from  the  sether  "was  produced 
water,  like  another  darkness  in  darkness ;  and  from  the  foam  of  the  water  was 
produced  the  wind  "  {tatah  salilam  utpannam  tamasivaparam  tamali  |  tasmacl^  eha 
aalilotpldad  iidatishthata  mSrutah), 

633  Professor  Aufreeht  has  suggested  to  me  that  the  word  raimi  may  have  here  the 
sense  of  thread,  or  cord,  and  not  of  ray. 

6S1  Does  this  receive  any  illustration  from  E.V.  i.  1S9,  2  (quoted  above,  p.  21)i 
which  speaks  of  the  "thought  (manaa)  of  the  father"  (Dyaus),  and  of  the  "mighty 
independent  power  (mahi  svatavaa)  of  the  mother  "  (Earth)  P 

B5  Compare  x.  72,  2,  3,  quoted  above,  p.  48,  and  x.  97,  1,  where  certain  plants 
are  said  to  be  anterior  to  the  gods,  by  three  yugas  (yaj^  oshadhijj,  punah  jataj^ 
devethyaa  triytegampiera). 


358  NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE. 

repeated  (ii,  8,  9,  3  ff.),  explains  it  in  conformity  -with  tte  philo- 
sophical ideas  of  a  later  period.  From  such  sources  we  have  no  right 
in  general  to  expect  much  light  on  the  real  meaning  of  the  ancient 
Vedic  poets.  The  commentator  in  question,  who  is  ohliged  to  find  in 
the  words  of  the  infallible  Veda  a  meaning  consistent  with  the  specu- 
lations believed  to  be  orthodox  in  his  own  age,  interprets  the  first  verse 
as  follows,  in  terms  which,  indeed,  after  all,  may  not  be  far  from 
correctly  expressing  its  general  purport :  Tada  purvasruhtih  pralina 
uttarasrishtii  eha  na  utpanna  taddnlm  sadasatl  dve  api  nahhutdm  | 
nammrupmUishtatvma  spasJitapratiyamdnafhjagat "  sat-" iabdena  uchyaU 
nm-avishanddisamanam  iunyam  "asad"  Uy  uehyate  \  tadulhayam  ndslt  \ 
kintu  Icdehid  avyaktdvasthd  dsit  |  sd  cha  vupasJiatvdhhavdd  na  satlj'agad- 
utpddakatvma  sadhhdv&d  ndpy  asati  \  "In  the  interval  between  the 
absorption  of  the  previous,  and  the  production  of  the  subsequent, 
creation,  there  was  neither  entity  nor  nonentity.  The  world  at  the 
time  when,  by  possessing  both  'name'  and  'form,'-*^"  it  is  clearly 
manifested,  is  designated  by  the  word  'entity,'  while  a  void  which 
may  be  compared  to  such  non-existing  things  as  a  'man's  horns,'  etc., 
is  called  '  nonentity.'  Neither  of  these  states  existed ;  but  there  was  a 
certain  unapparent  condition,  which,  from  the  absence  of  distinctness, 
was  not  an  '  entity,'  while  from  its  being  the  instrument  of  the  world's 
production,  it  was  not  a  'nonentity.'  " 

A  much  older  commentary  on  this  verse,  probably  one  of  the  oldest 
extant,  is  the  following  passage  from  the  S'atap.  Br.  x.  5,  3,  1 :  na 
iva  vai  idam  agre  asad  dsid  na  iva  sad  aslt  \  dsid  iva  vai  idam  ogre  na 
iva  dsit  I  tad  ha  tad  manah  eva  asa  |  2.  Tasmdd  etad  rishina  'hkyanuktam 
"  na  asad  dsid  no  sad  dsit  taddnim  "  iti  \  na  iva  M  sad  mano  na  iva 
asat  I  3.  Tad  idam  manah  srishtam  dvirahuhhushad  niruktataram  mur- 
tataram  |  tad  dtmdnam  amiaiohhat  |  tat  fapo  Hapyata  \  tat  pramurehhat  \ 
tat  shattri&iatam  sahasrany  apa&yad  dtmano  'gnin  arkdn  manomaydn 
manaichitah  ityddi  |  "In  the  beginning  this  [universe]  was  not 
either,  as  it  were,  nonexistent,  nor,  as  it   were,  existent.    In   the 

"■88  These  Vedantic  terms  name  and  form  occur  (as  observed  in  the  Section  on 
Yama,  p.  309)  in  the  Atharva-veda,  i.  2, 12  :  "Who  placed  in  him  (Purusha)  name, 
magnitude,  and  form  ?  "  and  in  xi.  7,  1 :  "In  the  remains  of  the  sacrifice  {uchhishta) 
name  and  form,  in  the  remains  of  the  sacrifice  the  world,  is  comprehended."  The 
original  texts  will  be  found  further  on  in  the  subsections  on  Purusha  and  Uchhishta. 
See  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  2,  3,  1  ff.,  to  be  quoted  below,  in  the  subsection  on  Brahma. 


NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE.  359 

beginning  this  tmiyerse  was,  as  it  were,  and  was  not,  as  it  were. 
Then  it  was  only  that  mind.  "Wherefore  it  has  been  declared  by  the 
rishi  (in  the  verse  before  ns),  '  There  was  then  neither  nonentity 
nor  entity ; '  for  mind  was,  as  it  were,  neither  entity  nor  non- 
entity. 2.  Then  this  mind,  being  developed,  wished  to  become  mani- 
fested, more  revealed,  more  embodied.  It  sought  after  itself;  it 
practised  austere  fervour.  It  swooned.  It  beheld  36,000  of  its  own 
fires,  suns,  formed  of  mind,  placed  by  mind,  etc."  Mind  then  creates 
voice,  voice  creates  breath,  breath  creates  eye,  eye  creates  ear,  ear 
creates  work  (or  ceremony),  and  work  creates  fire. 

These  ideas  of  entity  and  nonentity  °"  seem  to  have  been  familiar  to 
the  later  Vedic  poets,  as  in  E.V.  x.  72  (noticed  above,  and  translated  in 
the  section  on  Aditi,  p.  48),  we  find  it  thus  declared  (verses  2,  3),  that 
in  the  beginning  nonentity  was  the  source  of  entity:  "In  the  earliest 
age  of  the  gods  entity  sprang  from  nonentity ;  in  the  first  age  of  the 
gods  entity  sprang  from  nonentity."  In  the  A.V.  x.  7,  10  (which 
will  be  quoted  in  the  subsection  on  Skambha),  it  is  said  that  both 
nonentity  and  entity *''  exist  within  the  god  Skambha;  and  in  verse 
25  of  the  same  hymn :  "  Powerful  indeed  are  those  gods  who  sprang 
from  nonentity.  Men  say  that  that  nonentity  is  one,  the  highest, 
member  of  Skambha."  °''  The  Taittirlya  Upanishad  also  (Bibliotheca 
Indica,  p.  99)  quotes  a  verse  to  the  effect :  "  This  was  at  first  non- 
entity. From  that  sprang  entity "  {asad  vai  idam  agre  asif  |  tato  vai 
sad  ajayata). 

The  author  of  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad  probably  alludes  to  some 
of  these  texts  when  he  says  (vi.  2,  1  f.  Bibl.  Ind.  p.  387  f.):  Sad  eva 
somya  idam  agre  asld  eham  eva  advitlyam  I  tad  ha  ehe  ahw  "asad  eva 

637  The  Taitt.  Arany.  i.  11,  1  (Bibl.  Ind.  p.  84),  ascribes  the  development  of  ex- 
istence horn  nonexistence  to  the  seven  rishis,  etc.  {asatah  sad  ye  tatakshu/r  rishMyah 
sapta  Atris  eha  yat  \  sane  trayo  Agaatyas  cha). 

S38  Another  verse  of  the  A.V.  xvii.  1,19,  says  :  "  Entity  is  founded  [pratishthitam) 
on  nonentity ;  what  has  become  [bhuta)  is  founded  on  entity.  What  has  become  is 
based  (flhitam)  on  what  is  to  be,  and  what  is  to  be  is  founded  on  what  has  become  " 
{asati  sat  pratishthitam  sati  bhutam  pratishthitam  I  bhutain  ha  bhmye  dhitam 
ihavyam  bhute  pratishthitam). 

»''  This  phrase  (see  above,  p.  51)  is  also  applied  to  Agni  in  E.V.  x.  5,  7,  where  it  is 
said  that  that  god,  being  "a  thing  both  asat,  nonexistent  {i.e.  unmanifested),  and  sat, 
existent  {i.e.  in  a  latent  state,  or  in  essence),  in  the  highest  heaven,  in  the  creation  of 
Daksha,  and  in  the  womb  of  Aditi  (comp.  E.V.  x.  72,  4f.),  became  in  a  former  age 


360  NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE. 

idam  agre  asld  eJcam  eva  advitvyafh  tasmdd  asataA  saj  jayeta"  \  2.  Kutas 
tu  khalu  somya  evafh  syad  iti  ha  uvaeha  Jcatham  asatah  saj  jay  eta  iti  | 
»at  tv  eva  somya  idapi  agre  dsid  ekam  eva  advillyam  \  tad  aikshata  hahu 
syam  prajayeya  iti  \  "  This,  o  fair  youth,  was  in  the  beginning  ex- 
istent (or  entity)  {sat),  one  without  a  second.  Now  some  say,  '  This 
was  in  the  beginning  non-existent  (or  non-entity)  (asat),  one  without 
a  second ;  wherefore  the  existent  must  spring  from  the  non-existent.' 
2.  But  how,  o  fair  youth,  he  proceeded,  can  it  be  so  ?  How  can  the 
existent  spring  from  the  non-existent  ?  But,  o  fair  youth,  this  was  in 
the  beginning  existent,  one  without  a  second.  That  [entity]  thought, 
'Let  me  multiply  and  be  produced.'  "  "° 

There  does  not  appear  to  be  any  discrepancy  between  the  statement 
in  E.V.  X.  129,  J,  "There  was  then  neither  nonentity  nor  entity,"  and 
the  doctrine  of  the  Chhandogya  IJpanishad,  for  in  the  second  verse  of 
the  hymn,  also,  a  being  designated  as  the  One  is  recognized  as  existing, 
which  may  be  regarded  as  answering  to  the  primal  entity  of  the  TJp- 
anishad;  while  the  original  non-existence  of  anything,  whether  non- 
entity or  entity,  asserted  in  the  first  verse,  may  merely  signify,  as  the 
commentator  on  the  Taittiriya  Brahmajia  explains,  that  there  was  as 
yet  no  distinct  manifestation  of  the  One.  In  like  manner  the  A.V.  x. 
7.  10,  25  (quoted  above),  does  not  assert  the  absolute  priority  of  non- 
entity, but  affirms  it  to  be  embraced  in,  or  a  member  of,  the  divine 
being  designated  as  Skambha.  The  Chhandogya  Upanishad  has,  how- 
ever, a  greater  appearance  of  being  at  variance  with  itself,  iii.  19,  1 
l^asad  evedam  agre  aslt  tat  sad  asU),  and  with  the  Taittiriya  Upanishad, 
as  well  as  with  verses  2  and  3  of  the  72nd  hymn  of  the  tenth  book  of 
the  E.V.,  above  cited,  which  assert  that  entity  sprang  from  nonentity. 
If  these  verses  are  to  be  taken  literally  and  absolutely,  we  must 
suppose  the  poet  to  have  conceived  the  different  creative  agents  whom 
he  names,  Brahmanaspati,  TIttanapad,  Daksha,  and  Aditi,  to  have 
sprung  out  of  nothing,  or  from  each  other,  or  to  be  secondary  mani- 
festations of  the  entity  which  was  the  first  product  of  nonentity.  If, 
however,  with  the  commentators,  we  take  "nonentity"  to  denote 
merely  an  undeveloped  state,  there  will  be  no  contradiction. 

the  first-born  of  our  ceremonial,  and  is  both  a  bull  and  a  cow."     In  A.V.  xi.  7,  3,  it 
is  said  that  the  uehhishfha  (remains  of  the  sacrifice)  is  both  san  and  asan  (masculine). 
»*o  gee  English  trans,  p.  101,  which  I  have  not  followed, 


COtTESE  OP  IDEAS  IN  HYMN,  E.V.  x.  129.  361 

The  first  movement  in  the  process  of  creation  as  conceived  in  the 
hymn  (E.V.  x.  129)  is  this  :  the  One,  which  in  the  beginning  breathed 
ealmly,  self-sustained,  is  developed  by  the  power  of  ta^as,  by  its  own 
inherent  heat  (as  Professor  Miiller  explains,  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  561), 
or  by  rigorous  and  intense  abstraction  (as  Professor  Eoth  understands 
the  word ;  see  his  Lexicon,  «.«>.).''"    This  development  gave  occasion 

'*>  Eoth's  interpretation  is  supported  by  a  text  in  the  A.V.  x.  7,  38  (see  further  on 
in  the  subsection  on  Skambha),  as  well  as  by  numeroiis  passage  in  the  Brahmanas. 
Thus  in  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  5,  8,  1  (quoted  in  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  wort,  p.  4),  Prajapati, 
who  is  described  as  being  the  universe,  is  said  to  have  desired  [aTeamayata)  to  propa- 
gate himself,  and  to  have  striven  and  practised  rigorous  abstraction  {tapo  'tapyata). 
And  in  the  same  Brahmana,  xiii.  7,  1,  1  (cited  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  26), 
the  self-existent  Brahma  himself  is  similarly  related  to  have  practised  tapas,  and 
when  he  found  that  that  did  not  confer  infinity,  to  have  offered  himself  in  sacrifice. 
The  gods  are  also  said  to  have  attained  heaven  and  their  divine  character  by  tapas 
(see  above,  p.  15,  and  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  20,  21,  24,  and  288).  Compare 
also  the  Taitt.  Up.  ii.  6,  where  it  is  said :  Sa  tapo  'tapyata  |  sa  tapas  taptva  idam 
sarvam  asrijata  yad  idam  Mncha  \  "He  (the  supreme  Soul)  desired,  'Let  me  be 
multiplied  and  produced."  He  performed  tapas,  and  having  done  so,  be  created  all 
this."  In  his  commentary  on  this  passage,  S'ankara  explains  that,  in  conformity  with 
another  Vedic  text,  knowledge  is  called  tapas,  and  that,  as  the  supreme  Soul  has  no 
unsatisfied  desires,  no  other  sense  would  be  suitable ;  and  that  the  phrase  means 
"He  reflected  upon  the  construction,  etc.,  of  the  world  which  was  being  created" 
[tapah  iti  jnanam  uchyate  \  " yasya  jnSnamayam  tapah"  iti' s'ruty-antarad  apta- 
kamatvaeh  eha  itarasya  asamhha/iidh  eva  |  "sa  tapo  'tapyata"  tapas  taptavan 
srijyamana-jagad-raehamadi-vishayam  aloehatiam  akarod  atma  ity  arthah).  It  is 
true  that  all  these  passages  &om  the  Brabmauas  are  of  a  later  date  than  the 
hymn,  but  the  E.V.  itself,  a.  167,  1,  says  that  Indra  gained  heaven  by  tapas 
(see  above,  p.  14),  where  the  word  can  only  mean  rigorous  abstraction.  The  word 
is  also  found  in  E.V.  ix.  113,  2,  where  soma-juice  is  said  to  be  poured  out  with 
hallowed  words,  truth,  faith,  and  tapas  [ritoAialeena  satyena  sraddhaya  tapasa  sutaK) ; 
and  in  x.  83,  2,  3,  where  Manyu  (wrath  personified)  is  besought  to  protect,  or  to 
slay  enemies,  along  vrith  tapas,  {tapasa  sajoshah,  or  tapasa  ym'3).  This  view  of  the 
word  is  also  supported  by  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  1 :  "  Let  us  worship  with  an  obla- 
tion that  first-born  god,  by  whom  this  entire  universe  which  exists  is  surrounded 
(paribhutam)—tT[ie  self-existent  Brahma,  which  is  the  highest  tapas.  He  is  son, 
father,  mother.  Tt^as  was  produced  as  the  first  object"  {ymedam  vis'vam paribhu- 
tam  yad  asti  prathamajam  devam  havisha  vidhema  |  svayambhu  Brahma  paramam 
tapo  yat  \  sa  evaputrah  sa  pita  sa  mata  |  tapo  ha  yaksham  prathamam  sambabhuva). 
In  the  Mahabharata,  S'antiparva,  10836,  Prajapati  is  said  to  have  created  living 
beings  by  tapas,  after  having  entered  on  religious  observances,  or  austerities  [vratani), 
Tapas  is  also  mentioned  as  the  source  from  which  creatures  were  produced,  A.V.  xiii. 
1,  10.  Compare  Bhagavata  Purana,  ii.  9,  6,  7,  19,  23,  and  iii.  10,  4  ff.  Tapas  is 
connected  with  an  oblation  of  boiled  milk  in  a  passage  of  the  A.V.  iv.  11,  6  :  yma 
devah  svar  arwruhw  hitva  iarlram  amritasya  nabhim  |  tma  geshma  sukritasya 
lokam  gharmasya  vratma  tapasa  yasasyavah  \  "May  we,  renowned,  attain  to  the 
world  of  righteousness  by  that  ceremony  of  oflfering  boiled  milk,  by  tapas,  whereby  the 


362  GOUESE  OP  IDEAS  IN  HYMN,  E.V.  x.  129. 

to  desire  (Kama)  which  immediately  took  possession  of  the  One,  and  is 
described  as  the  first  germ  of  mind,  and  the  earliest  link "' between 
nonentity  and  entity.  The  poet  then  goes  on  to  speak  of  impregnating 
powers,  and  mighty  forces,  of  receptive  capacities,  and  active  energies ; 
but  confesses  himself  unable  to  declare  how  the  universe  was  produced. 
The  gods  themselves  having  come  into  existence  at  a  later  stage  of 
creation,  were  not  in  a  position  to  reveal  to  their  worshippers  the 
earlier  part  of  the  process  of  which  they  had  not  been  witnesses.    The 


gods  ascended  to  heaven,  the  centre  of  immortality,  having  left  behind  their  body." 
But  xi.  5,  5,  connects  twpas  -with  heat :  "  The  Brahmacharin,  born  before  Brahma, 
dwelling  (or  clothed)  ia  heat,  arose  through  tapas"  {puno  jato  Brahmano  hrahma- 
ehSrJ  gharmam  msanas  tapasodatisMhat.  In  A.V.  vii.  61,  tapas  is  connected  with 
Agni.  In  A.V.  xvii.  1,  24,  tapas  means  the  heat  of  the  sun.  Tapas  is  mentioned 
along  with  karman  in  A.V.  xi.  8,  2,  and  is  said  to  have  been  produced  from  it 
(ibid.  V.  6). 

^*'  The  commentator  on  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6  (p.  928  of  Calcutta  edition,  in 
Bibl.  Ind.)  says:  hamasya  sarva-vyavahara-hetutvam  Vajasaneyinah  samSmananti 
atho  khah  ahuh  "  kamamayah  evayam  purushah"  iti  \  Vyaso  'pi  smarati  "kdma- 
bamdhanam  evedam  ndnyad  asttha  iandhanam "  iti  \  asmad-anubhave  'pi  tatha 
dfisyate  \  sarvo  hi  purushah  prathamam  kinchit  kamayitva  tadartham  prayafa- 
manah  sukham  duhkham  va  labheta  \  "  The  Vajasaneyins  record  that  desire  is  the 
cause  of  all  action,  and  say  ;  '  this  Purusha  is  himself  actuated  by  desire '  (Brihadar. 
Up.  p.  854).  And  Vyasa  too  declares  in  his  smriti,  '  That  which  binds  this  world  is 
desire ;  it  has  no  other  bond.'  The  same  thing,  too,  is  seen  within  our  own  observa- 
tion ;  for  it  is  only  after  a  man  has  first  desired  something  that  he  will  strive  after  it, 
and  so  experience  pleasure  or  pain."  In  numerous  passages  of  the  Brahmauas  and 
TJpanishads  (as  in  those  quoted  in  the  last  note),  we  are  told  that  the  first  step  in  the 
creation  was  that  Prajapati  or  Brahma  "desired"  (akamayata).  In  his  remarks  on  the 
passage  of  the  Taittirlya'Upanishad,  quoted  in  the  last  note,  S'ankara  considers  it 
necessary  to  explain  that  the  supreme  Soul  is  not  subject  to  the  dominion  of  desire,  as 
if,  like  men,  he  had  any  wish  unfulfilled,  or  were  subject  to  the  influence  of  any 
desirable  objects  external  to  himself,  or  were  dependent  on  other  things  as  instru- 
ments of  attaining  any  such  external  objects ;  but  on  the  contrary,  is  independent  of 
all  other  things,  and  himself,  vrith  a  view  to  the  interests  of  living  beings,  origiuated 
his  desires  which  possess  the  characteristics  of  truth  and  knowledge  (or  true  know- 
ledge), and  from  being  a  part  of  himself,  are  perfectly  pure  [kamayitritvad  asmad- 
adi-vad  anaptakamam  chet  \  na  \  svatantryat  \  yathd  'nyan  para/oasikritya  kSmadi- 
doshah  pravarttayanti  na  tatha  Brahmanah  pravarttakal}  kamah  \  katham  tarhi 
satya-jnana-lakshanah  svatmaihutatvad  vistiddhah  \  na  tair  Brahma  pravarttyate  | 
iesham  tu  tat-pravarttakam  Brahma  prani-karmapekshaya  |  tasmat  svatantryam 
kameshw  Brahmanah  |  ato  na  anaptakamam  Brahma  sadhanantaranapekshatvach 
cha  I  kincha  yatha  'nyesham  anatmabkutah  dharmadi-nimittapekshah  kamah  svatma- 
vyatirikta-kSrya-karana-sadhanantarapekshachha  [^-as  cha .']  na  tatha  Brahmano 
nimittady-apekshaivam).  I  shall  below  treat  further  of  Kama,  as  a  deity,  and  of 
his  correspondence  vrith  the  Greek  "Epas,  as  one  of  the  first  principles  of  creation. 


RISHI'S  CONFESSION  OP  IGNOEANCE  EXPLAINED  AWAY.     363 

very  gods  being  at  fatilt,  no  one  on  earth  is  able  to  say  what  was  the 
origin  of  the  world,  and  whether  it  had  any  creator  or  not.  Even  its 
ruler  in  the  highest  heaven  may  not  be  in  possession  of  tlie  great  secret. 

Such  a  confession  of  ignorance  on  the  part  of  a  Vedic  rishi  could  not, 
however,  be  taken  in  its  obvious  and  literal  sense  by  those  who  held 
the  Veda  to  have  been  derived  from  an  omniscient  and  infallible  source. 
And  in  consequence  the  commentator  on  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana  is 
obliged  to  explain  it  away  in  the  following  fashion : — 

Atra  Icechid  agamam  upeishya  sva-sva-huddhi-laldd  anyathS.  'nyatha 
utprelcsTiante  \  tatha  M  paramdnavo  mulakaranam  iti  Kanada-Oauta- 
mddayo  manyante  \  svatantram  aehetanam  pradhdna«i  jagato  mulalcdra- 
nam  iti  Kapila-prabhritayali  \  iunyaditojagad-utpaUir  iti  Mddhyamilcdh  \ 
jagato  Icdranam  eva  ndsti  svabhdvdtah  eva  avatishthate  iti  Lohdyatilcdh  \ 
te  sarve  'pi  Ihrdntdh  eva  |  " i:o  addha  veda"  j'agat-Mramih  ho  ndma 
pwushah  sdlcshad  avagachhati  \  anmagatya  cha  '^hah  iha  pravochat" 
svayam  adrishtvd  ho  ndma  jagat-hdranam  idrig  iti  vahtum  ialtnoti  \  ko 
'yam  atra  valdavydmkah  iti  diet  \  uchyate  \  iyam  vividha  srishtih  "kutah 
Sj'dta"  ta[Ica?)smdd  vpdddna-hdrandt  sarvatah  utpanna  punarapi  huto 
nimittdd  utpanna  iti  tad  idam  updddnam  nimittam  cha  vahtavyam  tach 
cha  vahtum  asahyam  \  huto  'iahtir  iti  chet  \  uehyate  \  kim^devah  etad 
Iruyuh  huto  'nyah  kahhid  manushyah  \  na  tdvad  devdh  vahtum  iaUdh  te 
hy  asy a  jagato  vividhasrishter  "arvag"  eva  vidyante  na  tu  srishteh 
purvam  te  santi  \  yadd  devdnam  api  idri^i  gatis  taddnlm  "yatah" 
jagad  " alahhuva"  tat  hdranafh  vahtum  anyah  "ho"  vd  "veda"  \  devds 
cha  manu»hydi  cha  srishteh  prdg  anavasthandd  na  tdvat  pratyahshena 
paiyanti  taddnim  svayam  eva  abhdvdd  napy  anumdtum  iahtds  tad-yog- 
yayor  lietudrishtdntayor  ahhdvdt  |  tasmad  atigamhhiram  idam  para- 
mdrtha-tattvam  vaidiha-samadhigamyam  ity  abhiprdyah  |  .  .  .  .  iyam 
Ari&yamdnd  hhuta-bhautiha-rupd  vividha  srishtir  yatah  updddnahdrandd 
"alahhuva"  sarvatah  utpanna  tad  updddnahdranam  yadi  vd  hinchit 
svarupam  dhritvd  'vatishthate  yadi  vd  tasya  svarupam  eva  ndsti  tam 
imam,  nirnayam  yah  Parameiva/ro  ' sya  jagato  "'dhydkshah"  svdml  "so 
anga  veda  "  sa  eva  veda  yadi  vd  so  'pi  na  veda  |  isitrisitavyddi-lauhika- 
vyavahdra-drishtyd  "so  anga  veda"  ity  uhtam  |  yatra  tv  asya  sarvam 
dtmd  eva  ahhict  hena  ham  paiyed  ityddi-sarva-vyavahdrdtita-pa/ramartha- 
drishtya  "yadivd  na  veda"  ity  uJctam  \  ato  manushyddishu  tad-vedana- 
kankd  'pi  durdpetd  \ 


864     RISHI'S  CONFESSION  OF  IGNOEANCE  EXPLAINED  AWAY. 

"  There  are  certain  persons  who  contemn  revelation,  and  propound 
different  theories  of  creation  by  their  own  reason.  Thus  the  followers 
pf  Eanada  and'  Gautama,  etc.,  consider  atoms  to  be  the  ultimate  cause 
of  the  world.  Eapila  and  others  say  that  an  independent  and  un- 
conscious Fradhana  is  the  cause.  The  Madhyamikas  declare  that  the 
world  rose  out  of  a  void,  etc.  The  Lokayatikas  say  that  the  universe  has 
no  cause  at  all,  but  exists  naturally.  All  these  speculators  are  in  error. 
Our  hymn  asks  what  mortal  knows  by  actual  observation  the  cause  of 
the  world  ?  and  not  having  himself  had  ocular  proof,  how  can  any 
one  say  it  was  so  and  so  ?  The  points  to  be  declared  are  the  material 
and  instrumental  causes  of  the  universe,  and  these  cannot  be  told. 
The  reason  of  this  impossibility  is  next  set  forth.  Can  the  gods  give 
the  required  information  ?  Or,  if  not,  how  can  any  man  ?  The  gods 
cannot  teU,  for  they  did  not  precede,  but  are  subsequent  to,  the 
creation.  Since  the  gods  are  in  this  predicament,  who  else  can  know  ? 
The  purport  is,  that  as  neither  gods  nor  men  existed  before  the  creation, 
and  cannot  therefore  have  witnessed  it,  and  as  they  are  at  the  same  time 
unable  to  conclude  anything  regarding  it,  from  the  absence  of  any  ade- 
quate reason  or  illustrative  instance,  this  great  mystery  can  only  be 
understood  by  those  versed  in  the  Yedas. . .  .The  last  verse  of  the  hymn 
declares  that  the  ruler  of  the  universe  knows,  or  that  even  he  does  not 
know,  from  what  material  cause -this  visible  world  arose,  and  whether 
that  material  cause  exists  in  any  definite  form  or  not.  That  is  to  say, 
the  declaration  that  '  he  knows '  is  made  from  the  stand-point  of  that 
popular  conception  which  distinguishes  betweeen  the  ruler  of  the  uni- 
verse and  the  creatures  over  whom  he  rules  ;  while  the  proposition 
that  'he  does  not  know'  is  asserted  on  the  ground  of  that  highest 
principle  which,  transcending  all  popular  conceptions,  affirms  the 
identity  of  all  things  with  the  supreme  Soul,  which  cannot  see 
any  other  existence  as  distinct  from  itself.  [The  sense  of  this 
last  clause  is,  that  the  supreme  Soul  can  know  nothing  of  any  object 
being  created  external  to  itself,  since  no  such  object  exists].  "A 
fortiori,  the  supposition  that  such  beings  as  men  could  possess  this 
knowledge  is  excluded." 

It  would,  however,  be  absurd  to  imagine  that  the  simple  author  of 
the  hymn  entertained  any  such  transcendental  notions  as  these.  He 
makes  no  pretensions  to  infallibility,  but  honestly  acknowledges  the 


QUOTATION  FROM  THE  TAITTIRITA  BEAHMANA.  365 

perplexity  which  he  felt  in  speculating  on  the  great  problem  of  the 
origin  of  the  universe.'" 

As  a  further  illustration,  both  of  the  more  ancient  and  the  later 
ideas  of  the  Indians  regarding  the  creation  of  the  world,  and  the 
manner  in  which  the  supreme  Spirit,  previously  quiescent,  was  moved 
to  activity,  I  add  another  passage  from  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  ii.  2, 
9,  1,  with  some  of  the  commentator's  remarks.  The  text  of  the  Brah- 
mana runs  thus :  '**  "  This  [universe]  was  not  originally  anything. 
There  was  neither  heaven,  nor  earth,  nor  atmosphere.  That  being 
nonexistent  (jisat),  resolved,  'Let  me  be.'  That  became  fervent  (or 
practised  rigorous  abstraction,  aiofpyata).  From  that  fervour  (or 
abstraction)  smoke  was  produced.  That  became  again  fervent.  From 
that  fervour  fire  was  produced.  That  became  again  fervent.  From 
that  fervour  light  was  produced."  And  so  on, — aflame,  rays,  blazes, 
etc.,  being  generated  by  a  repetition  of  the  same  process,  (It  may 
perhaps  be  considered  that  the  manner  in  which  the  word  tapas  is 
used  in  this  passage  is  favourable  to  the  idea  that  in  E.V.  x.  129,  3,  it 
signifies  heat  rather  than  rigorous  abstraction.) 

Ibid.  ii.  2,  9,  10:  Asato  'dU  mano  'srijyata  \  mandh  Prajapatim 
asrijata  \  Prajapatih  prajah  asryata  \  "From  the  nonexistent  mind 
{manas)  was  created.  Mind  created  Prajapati.  Prajapati  created 
offspring." 

The  commentator's  explanation  of  the  first  part  of  this  passage  is  in 
substance  as  follows  :  "  Before  the  creation  no  portion  existed  of  the 
world  which  we  now  see.  Let  such  a  state  of  nonexistence  be  sup- 
posed. It  conceived  the  thought,  'Let  me  attain  the  condition  of 
existence.'  Accordingly,  this  state  of  things  is  distinctly  asserted  in 
the  Upanishad  (the  Taittirlya,  see  above,  p.  359)  :  '  This  was  origi- 
nally nonexistent.  From  it  existence  was  produced.'  Here,  by  the 
word  'nonexistent,'  a  state  of  void  (or  absolute  nuUity),  like  that  ex- 
pressed in  the  phrase  *  a  hare's  horns,'  is  not  intended  ;  but  simply  a 
state  in  which  name  and  form  were  not  manifested.  Hence  the  Vaja* 
saneyins  repeat  the  text :  '  This  was  then  undeveloped ;  let  it  be 
developed  through  name  and  form.'     Earth,  the  waters,  etc.,  are 

'"  Similar  perplexity  is  elsewhere  expressed  on  other  suhjects  hy  the  authors  of 
the  hymns.    See  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  "Work,  pp.  279  f. 

Ml  The  words  of  the  original  will  be  found  in  the  1st  ¥ol.  of  this  work,  pp.  27  f. 


366  QUOTATION  FROM  THE  TAITTIRIYA  BEAHMANA. 

'name.'  Hardness  and  fluidity,  etc.,  are 'form.'"  The  words  "un. 
developed"  and  "developed  "  are  then  defined,  and  Manu,  i.  5,  is  quoted 
in  proof.  The  supposition  that  the  passage  hefore  us  can  be  intended 
to  denote  a  void  is  next  contravened  by  adducing  the  text  of  the 
Chhandogya  TJpanishad  above  quoted,  ■where  that  theory  is  referred  to 
and  contradicted.  "  In  the  Aitareya  Upanishad  (at  the  beginning)  it 
is  declared  :  'Soul  alone  was  in  the  beginning  this  [universe].  No- 
thing else  was  active.'  Hence  the  negation  in  our  text,  '  This  [uni- 
verse] was  not  originally  anything,'  refers  to  the  world,  consisting  of 
name  and  form,  framed  by  the  Supreme  Spirit,  and  is  not  to  be  under- 
stood absolutely.  Designated  by  the  word  '  nonexistent '  {asai),  be- 
cause devoid  of  name  and  form,  but  still  (really)  existing  {sat),  the 
principle  [called]  the  Supreme  Spirit,  impelled  by  the  works  of  the 
creatures  absorbed  in  It,  conceived  a  thought  in  the  way  of  a  reflec- 
tion, 'Let  me  be  manifested  as  existent  in  the  shape  of  name  and 
form.'  As  a  man  in  a  deep  sleep  awakes  that  he  may  enjoy  the  fruit 
of  his  works,  so  the  thought  of  causing  all  living  creatures  to  enjoy 
the  fruit  of  their  works  arose  in  the  Supreme  Spirit.  Possessed  by 
such  a  thought,  that  principle  [called]  the  Supreme  Spirit,  practised 
rigorous  abstraction  (tapas)  as  a  means  of  creating  name  and  form. 
Here  tapas  does  not  mean  any  such  thing  as  the  kriehhra  or  chandra- 
yana  penances,  or  the  like  ;  but  denotes  consideration  regarding  the 
particular  objects  which  were  to  be  created.  Wherefore  writers  of  the 
Atharva-veda  school  record  the  text :  '  He  who  is  omniscient,  all- 
understanding,  whose  tapas  consists  of  knowledge.'  From  the  fact  that 
this  tapas  has  nothing  of  the  character  of  any  penance,  it  may  be 
properly  regarded  as  denoting  the  reflection  of  a  being  who,  though 
unembodied,  is  yet  omnipotent,"  etc.,  etc.  "  From  the  supreme  God, 
being  such  as  has  been  described,  in  conformity  with  his  volition,  a 
certain  smoke  was  produced,"  etc.,  etc. 

{Yad  idam  sthavara-jangama-rupa'ih  hhuloJcadirupam  chajagad  idanlm 
drisyate  tat  Icimapi  srishteh  purvam  naiva  dslt  \  tat  tddrisam  asad- 
rnpam  eva  varttamdnam  sydt  \  sad-rupatdm  prdpnuydm  ity  etddrisam 
mano  'kuruta  \  tathd  cha  upanishadi  purvam  asad-rupam  paschdt  sad- 
rupatotpattU  cha  vispashtam  dmndyate  "  asad  vai  idam  agre  asit  tato  vai 
sad  ajdyata"  iti  |  atra  "  asat~"sabdena  na  iakd-vishunddi-samdnam 
iunyatva^  vivahhitaffi  kirn  tarhy  anabhivyakta-ndma-rupatvam  |  ata^  eva 


PUETJSHA.  367 

Tajasaneymah- samdmananti  "tad  ha  idam  tarhy  avyaJcritam  dsU  \  tad 
nama-rupabhydm  eva  vyaJcriyeta"  iti  |  hhumir  dpah  ityddikafh  nama 
Tcathinya-dra/oddilcam  rupam  |  .  .  .  .  Aitareyinas  tv  adhlyate  "  dtmd  vai 
idam  elca^  eva  agre  dsid  na  any  at  Mnehana  mishad"  iti  |  tasmdd  "naiva 
kinchana  dsid"  ity  ay  am  nishedhah  Paramdtma-nirrtiita-ndma-rupdt- 
maka-jagad-visliayo  na  tu  kritma-vishayah  \  nama-rupa-rahitatvena 
"  asaf'-ialda-vaehyam  sad  eva  avasthitam  Paramdtma-tattvam  svdtmany 
emtarhita-prdni-karmapreritam  sad  ndma-rupdkdrena  dvirhhaveyam  iti 
parydlochana-rupam  mano  'kuruta  |  yathd  gddha-nidrdm  prdptasya 
pwushasya  ka/rma-pTiala-bhogdya  prdbodhah  utpad/yate  tathd  sarvdn 
prdninah  sva-sva-karma-phalam  bhojayitum  Idriio  vichdrah  Paramdt- 
manah  prddurabhut  |  tatMvidha-vichdra-yuktam  tat  Paramdtma-tattva- 
rupam  ndma-rupa-srisTiti-sddhana-rupam  tapo  ^kuruta  \  na  atra  tapah 
krichhra-chdndrdyanddi-rHpam  \  hintu  sraahtavya-paddrtha-visesha- 
vishayam  paryalochanam  |  atah  eva  Atharvanikdh  umananti  "yah 
sarvaj'nah  sarvavid  yasya  jndnamayam  tapah  "  iti  \  krichhrddi-rupatvd- 
hhdvdd  asarirasya  api  sarva-iakli-yuktasya  paryalochanam  upapannam  | 
....  tddri§dt  tasmdt  Paramesvardt  sva  -  sanJcalpdnusdrena  kaschid 
dhumah  udapadyata  |) 

(6)  Purusha. 

Another  important,  but  in  many  places  obscure,  hymn  of  the  Eig- 
veda,  in  which  the  unity  of  the  Godhead  is  recognized,  though  in  a 
pantheistic  sense,  is  the  90th  of  the  tenth  book,  the  celebrated 
Purusha  Sukta,"*  which  is  as  follows  : 

1.  Sahasra^lrshah  Purmhah  sahasrdkshah  sahasrapdt  |  sa  hhumim 
viSvaio  vritvd  aty  atishthad  dasdngulam  \  2.  Purushah  evedam  sarvam 
ydd  hhutam  yach  cha  bhavyam  |  utdmritatvasyesdno  yad  annendlirohati  \ 
3.  Etdvdn  asya  mahimd  ato  jydydfnk  cha  Purushah  |  pd.do  'sya  viivd 

'"  Translations  of  this  hymn  (which  is  also  given  with  slight  variations  in  Vaj.  S. 
13, 1-16,  and  A.V.  19,  6,  and  7,  5,  4)  will  he  found  in  Mr.  Colebrooke's  Miscel.  Ess. 
i.  167  (see  also  the  note  in  p.  309  of  the  same  volume),  as  also  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this 
■Work,  9  S  ;  (into  French)  in  the  Preface  to  Burnouf 's  Bhagavata  Purana,  vol.  i. 
pp.  cxxxi.  flf.  (where  see  the  notes) ;  and  (into  German)  in  Professor  Weber's  Ind. 
Stud.  ix.  5  flf.  I  have  now  endeavoured  to  supply  some  further  illustrations  of  the 
ideas  in  the  hymn.  I  have  passed  over  several  obscurities  on  which  1  have  been 
imable  to  throw  any  light.  The  first  two  verses  are  given  in  the  S'vetas'vatara 
ITpanishad,  iii.  14,  16,  where  the  commentary  may  be  consulted. 


368  PUEUSHA. 

hhutdni  tripad  myamritam  divi  |  4.  Tripdi  urddhvah  ted  ait  Pwushah 
pado  ^ syehabhavat  punah  \  tato  mshvan  vyahramat  saiananasane  dbhi  \ 
6.  Tasmad  Viral  ajayata  Virajo  adhi  Pnrushah  I  sa  jato  aty  arichyata 
paich&d  bhumim  atho  pwah  \  6.  Yat  Piirmhem  havisha  devah  yajnam 
atamata  \  vasanto  asydsid  ajyam  yflshmah  idhma^  iarad  havih  \  7.  Tam 
yajnam  harhishi  prauhhan  Pumsham  jdtam  agratah  \  tena  devdh  aya- 
Janta  sddhydh  rishaya^  cha  ye  \  8.  Tasmad  yqjndt  sarvahufah  aamhhri- 
tam  prishaddjyam  |  paSums  tdmS  ehakre  vdyavydn  dranydn  grdmydi  che 
ye  I  9.  Tasmdd  yajnat  sarvahutah  riohah  samdni  jtynire  \  ehhandami 
jajnire  tasmad  yajus  tasmdd  ajayata  |  10.  Tasmdd  aivdh  ajdyanta  ye  he 
cha  ulhayddatah  \  gdvo  ha  jajnire  tasmdt  tasmdj  jdtdh  ajdvayah  \  11. 
Yat  Purusha0i  vi  adadhuh  katidkd  vi  alcalpayan  \  mukham  him  asya  kait 
lahu  kd  uru  pddau  uchyete  \  12.  Brdhmano  'sya  mukham  astd  hdhu  rdja- 
nyah  hritah  \  uru  tad  asya  yad  vaisyah  padbhyam  sudro  ajayata  \  13. 
Chandramdh  manaso  jdtas  ehahshoh  Suryo  ajayata  \  muhhdd  Indrai  cha 
Agnii  cha  prdndd  Ydyw  ajayata  \  14.  Ndlhydh  dsid  antarihsham  ilrshno 
dyauh  samavartata  \  padbhyam  bhumir  disah  srotrdt  tathd  lohan  ahalpa- 
yan  |  15.  Saptdsydsan  paridhayas  irih  sapta  samidhah  kriidh  \  devdh, 
yad  yajnam  tanvdnah  abadhnan  Purusham  pa&um  \  16.  Yajnena  yajnam 
ayajanta  devds  tdni  dharmani  praihamdtii  dsan  |  te  ha  ndham  mahima- 
nah  sachanta  yatra  purve  kadhydh  sanii  devdh  | 

"  1.  PurusHa  has  a  thousand  heads  (a  thousand  arms,  A.V.),  a 
thousand  eyes,  and  a  thousand  feet.  On  every  side  enveloping  the 
earth,  he  transcended  [it]  by  a  space  of  ten  fingers.  2.  Purusha  him- 
self is  this  whole  °"  [universe],  whatever  has  been,  and  whatever  shall 
be.  He  is  also  the  lord  of  immortality,  since  through  food  he  ex- 
pands.'" 3.  Such  is  his  greatness;  and  Purusha  is  superior  to  this. 
AH  existing  things  are  a  quarter  "*  of  him,  and  that  which  is  immortal 

"8  Compare  S'atap.  Br.  iv.  2,  2,  1 :  Sarvam  hy  ayam  atma;  "for  this  soul  is 
everything." 

'*'  The  sense  of  the  last  clause  is  ohscure.  It  may  also  mean,  according  to  the 
commentators  on  the  Vaj.  S.  and  the  SVetasv.  Upan.  "  (he  is  also  the  lord  of)  that 
which  grows  by  food."  According  to  the  paraphrase  in  the  Bhagavata  Purana  (see 
below),  it  means,  "  seeing  he  has  transcended  mortal  nutriment."  The  parallel 
passage  of  the  A.V.  (19,  6,  4)  reads,  "  he  is  also  the  lord  of  immortality,  since  he 
became  united  with  another  [yad  anyenSbhavat  saha). 

«4B  Compare  A.V.  x.  8,  7,  and  13:  "-7.  With  the  half  he  produced  the  whole 
world ;  but  what  became  of  that  which  was  the  [other]  half  of  him  ?  {ardhena  visvam 
bhuvanim  j'ajana  yad  asya  ardham  leva  tad  babhuva).     13.  Prajapati  moves  within 


PTJETJSHA.  369 

in  the  sky  is  three  quarters  of  him.  ,  4.  "With  three  quarters  Purusha 
mounted  upwards.  A  quarter  of  him  again  was  produced  here  below. 
He  then  became  diffused  everywhere  among  things  animate  and  inani- 
mate.    6.  From  him  Viraj  was  born,  and  from  Viraj,  Purusha.'*'    As 

the  womb ;  though  unseen,  he  is  bom  in  many  forms.  With  the  half  he  produced 
the  whole  world ;  but  the  [other]  half  of  him,  what  sign  is  there  of  it  ?  "  Compare 
also  A.V.  X.  7,  8,  9,  which,  as  well  as  portions  of  A.V.  x.  8,  will  be  found  quoted  and 
translated  further  on,  in  the  subsection  on  Skambha. 

**'  The  commentator  on  the  Vaj.  San.  (where,  as  I  have  said,  this  hymn  is  also 
found)  explains  this  reciprocal  generation  of  Viraj  &om  Purusha,  and  again  of 
Purusha  from  Viraj,  by  saying,  in  conformity  with  Vedantic  principles,  that  Viraj  in 
the  form  of  the  mundane  egg  sprang  from  Adi-Purusha  (primeval  Purusha),  who 
then  entered  into  this  egg,  which  he  animates  as  its  vital  soul  or  divine  principle 
{tatah  I  tasmad  adipurmhad  Virat  brahmanda-deho  'jayata  |  .  .  .  .  tarn  eva  deham 
adhika/ranam  kritva  Furushas  taddehaihimant  eJcali  eva  puman  ajayata  \  sarva- 
vedanta-vedyah  Faramatnia  sva-maym/a  Virad-deham  b^ahmanda-rupam  arishlva 
tatra  jivarupena  pravisya  irahmandabhimam  devatatma  jwo  'bhavad  ity  arthalC). 
According  to  Mann,  i.  8-11  (see  the  1st  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  35  f.)  the  supreme 
Deity  first  created  the  waters,  in  which  he  placed  an  egg,  from  which  again  he  him- 
self was  born  as  Brahma,  also  called  Narayana.  This  male  (Purusha),  created  by 
the  eternal,  imperceptible,  first  Cause,  is,  as  verse  11  repeats,  called  Brahma.  Brahma 
by  his  own  thought  split  the  egg  (verse  12).  After  various  other  details  regarding 
the  creation,  the  writer  goes  on  to  say  (vers_e  32)  that  Brahma  divided  his  own  body 
into  two  halves,  of  which  one  became  a  male  (Purusha),  and  the  other  a  female,  in 
whom  he  produced  Viraj.  This  male  (Purusha)  Viraj  again  creates  Manu  himself 
(verse  33).  "We  here  see  that  the  word  male,  or  Purusha,  is  applied  by  Manu  to 
three  beings — viz.,  first,  to  Brahma  (verse  11) ;  second,  to  the  male  formed  by 
Brahma  from  the  half  of  his  own  body  (verse  32) ;  and  thirdly,  to  Viraj,  whom 
Brahma,  or  his  male  half,  produced  from  the  female  who  was  made  out  of  the  other 
half  of  his  body  (see  also  Wilson's  Vishnu  Parana,  p.  105,  note,  in  Dr.  Hall's 
edition).  Another  explanation  of  the  verse  is,  however,  to  be  obtained  by  comparing 
the  similar  passage  in  K.V.  x.  72,  i :  "  Daksha  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi  from 
Daksha  "  (quoted  above,  p.  48),  together  with  the  observation  of  Taska  (Nirukta,  xi. 
23,  also  quoted  above  in  page  50),  that  this  startling  declaration  may  be  explicable 
on  the  ground  that  these  two  deities  had  the  same  origin,  or,  in  conformity  with  a 
characteristic  of  their  divine  nature,  may  have  been  produced  from  each  other,  and 
have  derived  their  substance  from  each  other.  (See  also  Nirukta,  vii.  4,  quoted  above, 
p.  360,  where  the  author  repeats  the  same  idea  regarding  the  nature  of.  the  gods). 
Compare  also  A.V.  xiii.  4,  29  ff.,  where  Indra  is  said  to  be  produced  from  a  great 
many  different  phenomena  or  elements,  and  they  reciprocally  from  him  (s«  vai  ah/no 
ajayata  tasmad  ahar  ajayata).  The  S'atap.  Br.  (xiii.  6,  1,  2)  understands  Viraj  in 
the  passage  before  us  to  signify  not  any  male  power,  but  the  metre  of  that  name : 
"The  Viraj  has  forty  syllables.  Hence  he  (Purusha)  obtains  the  Viraj,  according  to 
the  text,  '  From  him  sprang  Viraj,  and  from  Viraj  Purusha."  This  is  that  Viraj. 
From  this  Viraj,  therefore,  it  is  that  he  begets  Purusha  the  sacrifice."  Viraj  occurs 
again  in  the  £.V.  ix.  96,  18,  and  x.  130,  5,  as  feminine  and  as  the  name  of  a  metre. 
It  is  also  found  in  x.  159,  3,  and  x.  166,  1,  as  well  as  in  i.  188,  5,  where  it  is  an 

24 


370  PTJETTSHA: 

soon  as  bom  he  extended  beyond  the  earth,  both  behind  and  before."" 
6.  When  the  gods  offered  up  Purusha  as  a  sacrifice,  the  spring  was  its 
clarified  butter,  summer  its  fuel,  and  autumn  the  [accompanying] 

adjective.  In  the  A.V.  it  is  of  frequent  occurrence,  and  sometimes  is  an  epithet,  and 
sometimes  denotes  the  metre  of  that  name.  Thus  in  ix.  2,  5  (compare  Vaj.  Sanh. 
17,  3,  and  S'atap.  Br.  ix.  2,  1,  19),  it  is  said,  "That  daughter  of  thine,  u  Kama,  is 
called  the  Cow,  she  whom  sages  denominate  Vach  Viraj  "  (see  helow,  the  subsection 
on  Kama,  and  Ind.  Stud.  ix.  478 ;  compare  E.V.  viii.  90,  16 ;  vacTwvidam  Vaeham 
....  devim  devehhyah  pary  eyushtm  gam  \  "  The  goddess  Vach  ....  the  cow,  who 
has  come  from  the  gods  ").  Again  in  viii.  9,  1 :  vataau  Virajah  salilad  udaitam  \ 
2,  Vatsah  laimadtigho  Virajah  |  ....  7.  Virajam  ahur  brahmanah  pitaram  tarn  no  vi 
dhehi  yatidha  salchibhyah  |  8.  Yam  prachyutam  anu  yajnah  prachymicmte  ttpatishth- 
amtevpatishthamamm  \  yasyahvrateprasaveyakshameJatisS  Virad rishayah parrnne 
vyomoM  I  ^.Aprarw,  eti pranma pranatlnam  Virat  Svarajam  ahhyeti paschat  \  "The 
two  calves  of  Viraj  rose  out  of  the  water.  2  . . . .  The  desire-hestowing  calf  of  Viraj." 
It  is  shortly  afterwards  (verse  7)  strangely  said  that  Viraj,  though  spoken  of  in  the 
feminine  gender,  is  the  "father  of  brahman,"  whether  that  mean  the  deity  or  devotion. 
"  They  say  that  Viraj  is  the  father  of  devotion.  Bring  her  to  us  thy  friends  in  as 
many  forms  (as  thou  canst).  8.  She  whom,  when  she  advances,  sacrifices  foUow, 
and  stand  stiU  when  she  stands ;  she,  by  whose  wiU  and  energy  the  living  being 
moves,  is  Viraj  in  the  highest  heaven.  9.  "Without  breath,  she  moves  by  the  breath 
of  breathing  females.  Viraj  follows  after  Svaraj,"  etc.  The  calf  of  Viraj  is  men- 
tioned again  in  xiii.  1,  33.  In  viii.  10,  1,  it  is  said  of  her  :  Virad  vai  idem,  ogre 
asit  tasyah  jatayah  sarvam  abibhed  "iyam  eva  idam  bhavishyati"  iti  \  2.  Sa  uda- 
kramat  sa  garhapatye  vyakramat  \  grihamedhi  grihapatir  bhiwati  yah  evam  veda  | 
"  Viraj  was  formerly  all  this  [universe].  Everything  was  afraid  of  her  when  she  was 
born,  lest  she  herself  should  become  this.  2.  She  ascended.  She  entered  the  Gar- 
hapatya  fire.  He  who  knows  this  becomes  master  of  a  house,"  etc.  And  in  ix.  10, 
24,  we  read :  Virad  vag  virat  prithivi  virad  antarilcsham  virat  prajapatih  \  viran 
mrityuh  sadhyanam  adhirajo  iaihuva,  etc.  "Viraj  is  Vach,  is  the  earth,  and  the 
air,  is  Prajapati,  is  Death,  the  ruler  of  the  Sadhyas,"  etc.  S'atap.  Br.  xiii.  2,  5,  3  : 
FraJSpatir  Virajam  asrijat  sa  'smat  srishta  parachy  ait  \  sa  'ivam  medhyam  pra- 
viiat  I  "Prajapati  created  Viraj.  She  being  produced  from  him  went  away  and 
entered  into  the  sacrificial  horse."  In  reading  these  passages  we  should  bear  in  mind 
the  great  power  attributed  by  the  Vedic  writers  to  hymns  and  metres.  See  "Weber's 
Ind.  Stud.  viii.  8-12 ;  and  vol.  iii.  of  this  "Work,  pp.  275  ff.  On  the  virtues  of  the 
Viraj  in  particular,  see  "Weber,  as  above,  pp.  56  ff.  In  the  following  texts  the  word 
may  be  a  masculine  name  or  an  epithet :  A.V.  xi.  5,  16.  "  The  acharya  is  a  brahma- 
charin ;  the  brahmacharin  is  Prajapati.  Prajapati  shines  (loi  rajati).  He  became 
the  resplendent,  powerful  Indra."  So  also  in  iv.  11,  7 ;  xiii.  3,  5 ;  xi.  5,  7 ;  and 
viii.  5,  10,  where  Viraj  precedes  or  follows  the  words  Prajapati  and  Parameshthin. 
In  xi.  4,  12,  Viraj  is  identified  with  Prana.  In  the  Brihad  Ar.  Up.  Viraj  is  called 
the  wife  of  Purusha.  (See  p.  217  of  Dr.  Eiier's  translation.  In  E.V.  x.  159,  3 
{atho  me  duhita  virat),  and  x.  166,  1  (virajam  gopatim  gavam),  the  word  seems  to  be 
an  epithet. 

650  In  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  ii.  6,  15  ff.,  the  preceding  verses  of  our  hymn  are 
paraphrased  as  follows  :  sarvam  Purmhah  evedam  bhutam  bhavyam  bhavach  cJia  yat  | 
tenedam  avritam  vis'vam  vitastim  adhitishthati  \  16.  Svadhiskthyam  pratapan  Pram 


PUEtJSHA.  371 

oblation.  7.  This  victim,  Purusha  bom  in  the  beginning,  they  immo- 
lated on  the  sacrificial  grass ;  with  hi'm  as  their  offering,  the  gods, 
Sadhyas,  and  Eishis  sacrificed.  8.  From  that  universal  oblation  were 
produced  curds  and  clarified  butter.  He  (Purusha)  formed  those  aerial 
creatures,  and  the  animals,  both  wild  and  tame.  9.  From  that  uni- 
versal sacrifice  sprang  the  hymns  called  Kich  and  Saman,  the  metres, 
and  the  Tajush.  10.  From  it  were  produced  horses,  and  aU.  animals 
with  two  rows  of  teeth,  cows,  goats,  and  sheep..  11.  When  they 
.divided  Purusha,  into  how  many  parts  did  they  distribute  him  ?  What 
was  his  mouth  ?  What  were  his  arms  ?  What  were  called  his  thighs 
and  feet  ?  12.  The  Brahman  was  his  mouth  ;  *"  the  Eajanya  became 
his  arms  ;  the  Vai^ya  was  his  thighs;  the  S'udra  sprang  from  his  feet. 
13.  The  moon  was  produced  from  his  soul;  the  sun  from  his  eye; 
Indra  and  Agni  from  his  mouth ;  and  Vayu  from  his  breath.  14. 
From  his  navel  came  the  atmosphere  j  from  his  head  arose  the  sky ; 
from  his  feet  came  the  earth  ;  from  his  ear  the  four  quarters  i  so  they 
formed  the  worlds.     15.  When  the  gods,  in  performing  their  sacrifice, 

vahis  cha  pratapaty  asau  |  evam  Virajam  pratapame  tapaty  cmtar  vahih  puman  |  17. 
So  *mritasyabhwyasyeso  ma/rtyam  annum  yad  atyagat  |  mahimaisho  tato  brakman 
Pmrushasya  dwatyayah  \  18.  PadesJiw  sarva-bhutani  Pimsah  sthitipado  viduh  \ 
amritam  Jtshemam  abhayam  trimurdfmo  'dhayi  murdhmu  \  19.  Fadas'  tra/yo  vahis 
chasamn  aprajanam  ye  airamah  |  antas  trilokyas  tv  aparo  grihamedho ' vfihad-vratah  \ 

20.  Sriti  vichahrame  vishvan  sas'ananasane  ubhe  \  yad  avidya  cha  vidya  cha  Furmhas 
tubhayairayah  \  21.  Yasmad  and/am  Virad  jajne  bhutendriya-gunatmakah  \  tad- 
dravyam  atyagad  viavam  gobhih  suryah  ivatapan  I  15.  "  Purusha  himself  is  all  this 
which  has  been,  shaU  be,  and  is..  By  him  this  universe  is  enveloped,  and  yet  he 
occupies  but  a  span.  16.  That  Prana  [explained  by  the  commentator  as  the  sun],  while 
kindling  his  own  sphere,  kindles  also  that  which  is  without  it.  So,  too,  Purusha, 
while  kindling  Yiraj,  kindles  whatever  is  within  and  without  him.  17.  He  is  the  lord  of 
immortality  and  security,  since  he  has  transcended,  mortal  nutriment.  Hence,  o 
Brahman,  this  greatness  of  Purusha  is  unsurpassable..  18.  The  wise  know  all  things  to 
exist  in  the  feet  [or  quarters]  of  Purusha,  who  has  the  worlds  for  feet  [or  quarters]  : 
immortality,  blessedness,  and  security,  abide  in  the  heads  of  the  three-headed.  19.  Three 
quarters,  viz.,  the  abodes  of  ascetics,  are  beyond  the  three  worlds ;  while  the  remain- 
ing quarter,  the  abode  of  householders  who  have  not  adopted  a  life  of  celibacy,  is 
within  them.  20.  Purusha  has  traversed  both  the  two  separate  paths,  that  of  enjoyment 
and  abstinence,  that  is,  of  ignorance  and  knowledge ;  for  he  is  the  receptacle  of  both. 

21.  From  him  was  produced  an  egg,  consisting  of  the  elements  and  senses  and  three 
qualities.  Purusha  penetrated  through  its  entire  substance,  as  the  sun  warms  with 
his  rays."  There  is  a  good  deal  about  Purusha  in  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  ITpanishad. 
See  pp.  217,  220-228,  233,  230,  252,  267,  of  Dr.  Eoer's  English  translation. 

S51  KaushitakI  Brahmana  Upanishad,  ii.  9,  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work, 
p.  10,  note. 


372  PUEUSHA. 

bound  Purusha  as  a  victim,  there  were  seven  pieces  of  wood  laid  for 
him.  round  the  fire,  and  thrice  seven  pieces  of  fuel  employed.  16. 
With  sacrifice  the  gods  worshipped  the  Sacrifice.  These  were  the  first 
institutions.  These  great  beings  attained  to  the  heaven  where  the 
gods,  the  ancient  Sadhyas,  reside."  '^^ 

There  are  two  other  hymns  of  the  Eig-veda  besides  the  Purusha 
Sukta  in  which  the  Deity  is  represented  as  either  the  agent,  the  object, 
or  the  subject  of  sacrifice.  In  x.  81,  5,  Vi^vakarman  is  said  to  sacri- 
fice himself,  or  to  himself;  and  in  verse  6,  to  offer  up  heaven  and 
earth.  And  in  x.  130  (where,  in  verse  2,  Puman  may  be  equivalent 
to  Purusha),  it  is  said  (verse  3)  either  that  the  gods  sacrificed  to  the 
[supreme]  god,  or  that  they  offered  him  up.°" 

In  the  Nirukta,  x.  26,°^  a  legend,  having  reference  to  E.V.  x.  81,  is 
quoted  to  the  effect  that  Vi^vakarman,  the  son  of  Bhuvana,  first  of 
all  offered  up  aU  worlds  in  a  sarvamedha,  and  ended  by  sacrificing  him- 
self. And  in  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiii.  7,  1,  1,  the  same  thing  is  related  of 
the  self-existent  Brahma  himself,  who,  finding  that  he  could  not 
by  austere  fervour  attain  to  the  infinitude  which  he  desired,  re- 

'52  This  verse  is  =i.  164,  60,  where  see  Sayana's  interpretation  and  Mahidliara'a  on 
Vaj.  S.  31,  16 ;  also  Nir.  12,  41. 

663  The  rendering  in  these  passages  depends  on  the  exact  sense  assigned  to  the 
word  yaj.  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  7-9.  The  Taitt.  Sanh.  Asht,  tL  p.  41 
of  India  Office  MS.,  says:  Yajnma  vai  Frajapatih  prajah  aarijata  \  "Prajapati 
created  living  beings  hy  sacrifice."  In  the  Taitt.  Br.  3,  9,  22,  1,  it  is  said:  "The 
gods  slaughtered  father  Prajapati  as  a  victim.  They  then  fasted,  saying :  '  In  the 
morning  vee  shall  offer  sacrifice.' "  Prajapatim  vai  devah  pitarmn  pas'um  bhutam 
medhat/a  alabhanta  \  tarn  alabhya  upavasan  |  pratar  yaahtaahmahe  iti. 

»64  VoL  iv.  of  this  work,  p.  7 ;  see  also  p.  309 ;  and  Mahabharata  S'antip.,  verse 
241 :  nsva/rupo  Mahadevah  sarvamedhe  mahamakhe  |  juKma  sarva-bhutam  tathai- 
vamanam  atmana  (  "  The  omniform  Mahadeva  sacrificed  all  creatures  in  a  great 
aU-oblation,  and  then  offered  himself  by  himself."  In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  1,  8, 
2,  it  is  said  that  "Prajapati  gave  himself  to  the  gods,  and  became  their  sacri- 
fice. Per  sacrifice  is  the  food  of  the  gods.  He  then  created  sacrifice  as  his 
own  image  (or  counterpart).  Hence  they  say  that  'Prajapati  is  sacrifice;'  for  he 
ereated  it  as  his  own  image  "  (tebJiyah  PrajSpatir  atmanam  pradadau  \  Tajno  ha 
eshSm  asa  |  Yajno  hi  devanam  annam  |  3.  Sa  devebhyah  atmanam  pradaya  atha  etam 
atmanah  pratimam  asrijata  pad  yajnam  \  tasmad  ahuh  "  Frajapatir  yajnah "  iti  | 
StmMno  hy  etam  pratimam  aarijata).  In  the  M.  Bh.  S'antip.  9616,  also,  it  is  said 
that  Prajapati  formed  the  sacrificial  victims,  and  sacrifice  itself,  and  with  it  worship- 
ped the  gods.  The  S'atap.  Br.  says,  elsewhere,  xiv.  3,  2,  1,  "  This  which  is  sacrifice 
is  the  soul  of  all  beings  and  of  all  gods,"  {aaneshaih  vai  esha  bhutanam  aarveaham 
devanam  atma  yad  yajnalf). 


PUEUSHA.  373 

solved  to  offer  up  himself  in  created  things,  and  created  things  in 
himself,  and  having  done  this,  attained  to  pre-eminence,  seU-efPul- 
gence,  and  supreme  dominion  (see  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  25). 
It  is  evident  that  the  author  of  this  passage  had  not  attained  to  that 
clear  conception  of  the  self-sufficiency  and  omnipotence  of  a  self- 
existent  Being  which  later  Indian  writers  acquired.'^' 

In  the  hymn  before  us  the  gods  are  distinctly  said  (in  verses  6,  7, 
and  15)  to  have  offered  up  Purusha  himself  as  a  victim.  And  in 
the  Bhagavata  Purana,  ii.  6,  21-26,°"  which  is  a  paraphrase  of  this 
passage,  Brahma  is  made  to  say  that  he  derived  the  materials  of  sacri- 
fice from  Purusha's  members,  and  immolated  that  being,  the  lord 
himself. 

It  is  not  very  easy  to  seize  the  precise  idea  which  is  expressed  in 
the  latter  part  of  this  singular  hymn,  the  Purusha  Sukta.  It  was 
evidently  produced  at  a  period  when  the  ceremonial  of  sacrifice  had 
become  largly  developed,  when  great  virtue  was  supposed  to  reside  in 
its  proper  celebration,  and  when  a  mystical  meaning  had  come  to  be 
attached  to  the  various  materials  and  instruments  of  the  ritual  as  well 
as  to  the  different  members  of  the  victim.  Penetrated  with  a  sense  of 
the  sanctity  and  efficacy  of  the  rite,  and  familiar  with  all  its  details, 
the  priestly  poet,  to  whom  we  owe  the  hymn,  has  thought  it  no  pro- 
fanity to  represent  the  supreme  Purusha  himself  as  forming  the  victim, 
whose  immolation  by  the  agency  of  the  gods  gave  birth,  by  its  trans- 
cendent power,  to  the  visible  universe  and  all  its  inhabitants.'" 

The  two  following  verses  in  the  Yajasaneyi  Sanhita  refer  to  Purusha: 

xxxi.  18  (=  SVeta^vatara  ITpanishad,  iii.  8) :  vedaham  etam  Pv/rusham 
mahantam  aditya-vwrnam  tamasah  parastat  \  tarn  eva  vidiiyoa  Hi  mrityum 
etindnya^  panthah  vidyate  ayanaya  |  "I  know  this  great  Purusha, 
resplendent  as  the  sun,  above  the  darkness.    It  is  by  knowing  him 

'55  The  word  svayamihu  does  not,  however,  always  signify  self-existence  in  the 
absolute  sense.  Thus  Kas'yapa  is  in  A.V.  xix.  63,  10,  called  mayamhhu,  and  is  yet 
said  to  have  sprung  from  Kala  (time).     (See  the  subsection  on  Kala,  farther  on.) 

5"  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  9. 

'*'  Dr.  Haug,  when  treating  of  the  importance  attached  to  sacrifice  by  the  Brah- 
mans,  remarks  (Pref.  to  Ait.  Ar.  p.  73) :  "  The  creation  of  the  world  itself  was  even 
regarded  as  the  fruit  of  a  sacrifice  performed  by  the  Supreme  Being."  If  the  learned 
author  here  refers  to  the  Purusha  Sukta  it  would  have  been  more  exact  to  say  that 
the  creation  was  regarded  as  the  fruit  of  an  immolation  of  the  Supreme  Being.  But 
his  remark  may  be  justified  by  the  other  passages  I  have  cited. 


374  PUEUSHA. 

that  a  man  overpasses  death.  There  is  no  other  road  to  go."  "'  (The 
Purusha  Sukta  occupies  verses  1-16  of  the  same  section  in  which  this 
verse  is  found.) 

xxxii.  2 :  swrve  nimeshdh  jqfnire  vidyutah  FurusMd  adhi  |  nainam 
urdhvafn  na  Uryaneham  na  madhye  parijagrabhat  \  "All  winkings  of 
the  eye  have  sprung  from  Purusha,  the  resplendent.  No  one  has 
emhraced  him  either  above,  or  below,  or  in  the -middle."  '" 

The  A.V.  contains  a  long  hymn  {il.  2)  on  the  subject  of  Purusha, 
which  does  not  throw  much  light  on  the  conception  of  his  character, . 
but  contains  a  number  of  curious  ideas.  The  Deity  being  conceived 
and  described  in  this  hymn  as  the  Man,  or  Male  (Purusha) — the  great 
archetype  and  impersonation  of  that  aotiye  energy  of  which  men  are 
the  feeble  representatives  upon  earth — the  poet  has  been  led  to  im- 
agine the  object  of  his  adoration  as  invested  with  a  visible  form,  and 
with  members  analogous  to  those  of  the  human  frame;  and  he  then 
goes  on  to  speculate  on  the  agency  by  which  the  different  portions  of 
Purusha's  body  could  have  been  constructed,  and  the  source  from 
which  he  could  have  derived  the  varions  attributes  through  which  he 
formed  the  universe,  and  ordained  the  conditions  under  which  its 
several  departments  exist.  The  minute  questions  regarding  the  mem- 
bers of  Purusha  with  which  the  hymn  opens  may  have  been  suggested 
to  the  author  by  an  observation  of  the  curious  structure  of  the  human 
body,  and  by  the  wonder  which  that  observation  had  occasioned. 
Throughout  the  hymn  Purusha  is  not  represented  as  a  self-existent, 
self-sufficient  Being,  but'  as  dependent  on  other  gods  for  his  various 
powers  and  attributes.  The  details  are  too  tedious,  and  in  some  places 
too  obscure,  to  admit  of  my  giving  them  in  full,  but  I  shall  state  the 
substance,  and  adduce  the  most  important  parts  more  or  less  iu  ex- 
tenso.    The  hymn  begins  thus.: — 

*'*  Compare  A.V.  vii.  53,  7  :  "Ascending  from  the  darkness  to  the  highest  heaven 
we  have  reached  the  sun,  a  god  among  the  gods,  the  uppermost  light"  {ud  vayam 
tamasas  pari  nhanto  nakam  uttamam  ,|  devam  devatra  suryam  aganma  jyotir  utta- 
mam  \  compare  E.V.  i.  50,  10,  quoted  aboTe  in  p.  160). 

649  ipj^g  following  verse,  given  in  the  Nirukta,  ii.  3,  is  from  the  S'veta^vatara  Up- 
anishad,  iii.  9 :  "  This  entire  universe  is  filled  by  that  PuruSha  to  whom  there  is 
nothing  superior,  from  whom  there  is  nothing  different,  than  whom  no  one  is  more 
minute  or  more  vast,  and  who  alone,  fixed  like  a  tree,  abides  in  the  sky"  (^yaamat 
param  naparam  aati  kinehid  yasmad  naniyo  na  j'yayo  'sti  kaiehit  |  vrikshah  iva 
atabdho  divi  tishfhaty  ekas  Unedmn  purnam  Fwwhem  sarvmn). 


PUEUSHA.  375 

1.  Kena  parshni  ahhrite  Fwrwlimya  kena  mdmsam  sambhritam  kena 
gulphau  I  kenSnguli  pe^anlh  kena  khani  ....  |  2.  Kasman  nu  gulphdv 
adhardv  akrinvann  ashthlvantdv  uttarau  Purushasya  |  ....  4.  Kati 
devdh  katame  te  dsan  ye  uro  grlvdi  chikyuh  Purushasya  \  kati  stanau 
vyadadhuh  kah  kaphaudau  kati  skandhdn  kati  prishtir  achitman  \  6. 
Kah  sapta  khani  vi  fatarda  iirshani  kargidv  imau  ndsike  ehakshanl  mu- 
kham  \  ....  9.  Priydpriydni  hahuld  svapnam  samhddha-tandryah  \ 
dnanddn  ugro  nanddmi  cha  kasmdd  vahati  Furushah  \  drtir  avartir 
nirritik  kuto  nu  Purushe  'matih  \  rddhih  samridhih  \  ....  12.  Ko 
asmin  rupam  adadhat  ko  mahmdnam  cha  ndma  cha  \  gatum  ko  asmin  ko 
ketum  kai  eharitrdni  Purushe  \  13.  Ko  asmin  pranam  avayat  ko  apanam 
vydnam  u  \  samdnam  asmin  ko  devo  adhi  iiirdya  Purushe  \  14.  Kb  asmin 
yajnam  adadhdd  eko  devo  adhi  Purushe  \  ko  asmin  satyam  ko  'nritafh,  kuto 
mrityuh  kuto  'mritam  |  15.  Kb  asmai  vdsah  paryadhdt  ko  asydyur 
akalpayat  \  halam  ko  asmai  prdyachhat  ko  asydhalpayaj  jwvam  \  16. 
Kenapo  anvatanuta  kendhar  aka/rod  ruche  \  ushasam  kena  anoaindha  kena 
sayambhcmam  dadhe  \  17.  Ko  asmin  reto  nyadadhat  tantur  dtayatdm 
iti  I  medhdm  ko  asminn  adhyauhat  .  .  .  .  |  18.  Kena  imam  Ihumim 
awnot  kena  paryabha/oad  divam  \  kenabhi  mahnd  parvatdn  kena  karmdni 
Purushah  \  24.  Keneyam  Ihumir  vihiid  kena  dyaw  uttard  hitd  \  kenedam 
urdhvam  tiryak  cha  antariksham  vyacho  hitam  |  25.  Brahmand  ihumir 
vihitd  Brahma  dyaur  uttard  hitd  \  Brahmedam  urdhvam  tiryak  cha 
antariksham  vyacho  hitam  |  ....  28.  Urdhvo  nu  srishtds  tiryan  nu 
srishtdh  sarvdh  di^ah  Purushah  a  labhuva  |  puram  yo  Brahmano  veda 
yasydh  Purushah  uchyate  \  29.  Yo  vai  tarn  Brahmano  veda  amritendvri- 
tdm  pu/ram  \  tasmai  Brahma  cha  Irdhmdi  cha  ehakshuh  prdnamprajdm 
daduh  I  30.  Na  vai  tarn  chakshwr  jahdti  na  prdno  jarasah  purd  |  puram 
yo  Brahmano  veda  yasydh  Purushah  uchyate  \  31.  Ashtdohakrd  nava- 
dvdrd  devdndm  pur  ayodhyd  \  tasydm  hi/ranyayah  koiah  svargah  jyotishd- 
vritah  \  32.  Tasmin  hiranyaye  koie  tryare  fripratishthite  \  tasmin  yad 
yaksham  dtmanvat  tad  vai  Irahma-vido  viduh  |  38.  Prabh/rdjamdndm 
harinlm  yasasd  samparivritam  \  puram  hiranyayim  Brahma  aviveid- 
pardjitdm  \ 

"1.  By  wtom  were  tlie  heels  of  Purusia  produced  ?  By  ■whom  was 
his  flesh  brought  together  ?  By  whom  were  his  ancles,  by  whom  were 
his  fingers  and  his  muscles,  made  ?  By  whom  the  apertures  of  his 
body  ?  .    .  .  2.  From  what  did  they  construct  his  ancles  below  and 


376  PtJRirSHA. 

his  knees  above?"  After  similar  question  about  his  legs,  thighs, 
trunk,  etc.y  the  author  proceeds :  "4.  How  many  and  who  were  the 
gods  who  joined  together  the  chest  and  the  neck  of  Purusha  ?  How 
many  formed  his  breasts,  who  his  elbows  ?  (?)  How  many  connected 
his  shoulders  and  ribs  ?  ....  6.  Who  opened  the  seven  apertures  in 
his  head,  these  ears,  nostrils,  eyes,  and  mouth?  .  .  .  ."  "Whence," 
asks  the  poet  (verse  9),  "  does  the  glorious  Purusha  bring  many  things 
pleasant  arid  unpleasant,  sleep,  fear,  fatigue,  and  various  kinds  of 
enjoyments  ?  10.  How  do  suffering,  distress,  evil,  as  weU  as  success 
and  opulence,  exist  in  Purusha  ?  ....  12.  Who  assigned  to  him  form,^™ 
magnitude,  name,*™  motion,  and  consciousness,  (13)  and  what  god  put 
into  him  the  different  vital  airs  ?  14.  What  one  god  placed  in  him 
sacrifice,  truth,  and  falsehood  ?  Whence  come  death  and  immortality  ? 
15.  Who  clothed  him  with  a  garment  ?  Who  created  his  life  ?  Who  gave 
him  strength  and  speed?  16.  Through  whom  did  he  spread  out  the 
waters,  cause  the  day  to  shine,  kindle  the  dawn,  bring  on  the  twilight  ? 
1 7.  Who  placed  in  him  seed,  that  the  thread  (of  being)  might  be  con" 
tinned  ?  Who  imparted  to  him  understanding  ?  ....  18.  Through 
whom  did  he  envelope  the  earth,  surround  (or  transcend)  the  sky, 
surpass  by  his  greatness  the  mountains  and  all  created  things  ?  24. 
By  whom  was  this  earth  made,  and  the  sky  placed  above  ?  By  whom 
was  this  expanse  of  atmosphere  raised  aloft  and  stretched  across  ?  25. 
The  earth  was  made  by  Brahma,  and  Brahma  is  placed  above  as  the 
sky.  Brahma  is  the  expanse  of  atmosphere,  raised  aloft  and  stretched 
across.  28.  Purusha,  who  is  on  high,  has  pervaded  all  the  regions 
which  are  extended  aloft  and  across  (quoted  with  variations  in  Taitt. 
Ar.  i.  27,  3,  p.  168).  He  who  knows  the  city  {pur)  of  Brahma  from 
which  Fwrusha  is  named,  (29)  who  knows  that  city  of  Brahma,  invested 
vrith  immortality;  to  him  Brahma  and  Brahma's  sons  have  given  sight, 

«6o  Here,  as  above  noticed  (p.  166,  note),  we  iave  the  nama  and  rupa  of  the 
Vedautists.  Compare  Taitt.  Brah.  ii.  2,  7,  1 :  Prajapatih  prajah  aarijata  \  tah 
srishtah  samashkrishyan  (in  p."  444  the  word  ia  printed  mmasHshyan)  |  tah  rupena 
anupravis'at  |  tasmad  ahuh  "rupam  vai  Frajapatir"  iti  \  tah  namna  'nupravis'at  | 
tasmad  ahwr  "  mma  vai  Frajapatir  "  iti  \  "  Prajapati  created  living  beings.  Theyj 
however,  were  in  a  shapeless  state.  He  entered  into  them  with  form.  Hence,  men 
say  '  Prajapati  is  form.'  He  entered  into  them  with  name.  Hence,  men  say  '  Praja- 
pati is  name.' "  Compare  the  same  Brahmana,  iii.  10,  5,  1,  and  iii.  12,  7,  5.  See 
M.  Langlois'  note  on  the  word  nama  in  K.V.  i.  73,  8,  vol.  iv.  p.  493  of  his  trans- 
lation of  the  Eig-veda. 


PURUSHA.  377 

and  breath,  and  progeny.  30.  ITeither  sight  nor  breath  abandons 
before  [the  term  of  natural]  decay  the  man  who  knows  the  city  of 
Brahma,  from  which  Purusha  is  named.  31.  "Within  that  impregnable 
city  of  the  gods  (compare  pv/ram  devdndm  amritam  hirant/am,  A.Y.  v. 
28,  11 ;  and  Mahabharata,  xiv.  987  ff.),  which  has  eight  circles  (com- 
pare A.Y.  xi.  4,  22)  and  nine  gates,  there  exists  a  golden  receptacle, 
celestial,  invested  with  light.  32.  Those  acquainted  with  Brahma 
(divine  science,  or  the  Deity)  know  that  living  being  which  resides  in 
this  golden  receptacle  with  three  spokes,  and  triple  supports.™'  33. 
Brahma  has  entered  into  the  impregnable  golden  city,  resplendent, 
bright,  invested  with  renown." 

In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiii.  6,  1,  1  (see  vol.  iv.  of  this  "Work,  p.  25),  the 
word  Narayana  is  coupled  with  Purusha,  and  it  is  said  that  this  being 
desired  to  surpass  all  beings,  and  become  himself  the  entire  universe, 
and  that  he  accomplished  his  object  by  celebrating  the  Purushamedha 
sacrifice.  Purusha  Narayana  is  again  mentioned  in  the  same  Brah- 
mana  (xii.  3,  4,  1)  as  receiving  instruction  from  Prajapati  :  Fi^ushawt 
ha  Narayamm  Pr(yapatir  uvacha  "  yajasva  yaj'asva"  iti  |  sa  ha  v/oaoha 
'"ycyasva  yajasva''  iti  vdva  tvam  mam  dttha  |  trir  ayahhi  |  Vasavah 
prdtah-savanena  aguh  Rudrdh  madhyandinena  savanena  Adityds  tritiya- 
savanena  atha  mama  yeyna-vdstv  eva  ycy'na-vastdv  eva  aham  dm  "  iti  | 
sa  ha  uvdcha  "yajasva  eva  \  aham  vai  te  tad  vahshyami  yathd  te  uhthani 
manir  iva  sutre  otdni  hhwoishyanti  sutram  iva  vd  mandv  "  iti  |  "Praja- 
pati said  to  Purusha  Narayana,  '  Sacrifice,  sacrifice.'  He  replied, 
'  Thou  sayest  to  me.  Sacrifice,  sacrifice.  I  have  sacrificed  thrice.  By 
the  morning  oblation  the  Vasus  came,  by  the  mid-day  oblation  the 
Eudras  came,  and  by  the  third  oblation  the  Adityas  came  to  my  place 
of  Sacrifice,  where  I  was.'  Prajapati  rejoined,  '  Sacrifice ;  I  will  tell 
thee  how  thy  hymns  shall  be  strung  like  a  gem  on  a  thread,  or  as  a 
thread  in  a  gem.'  " 

s6'  One  line  of  A.V.  x.  8,  43  (quoted  in  the  next  subBection),  is  identical  with  one 
line  of  this  verse,  though  the  other  line  is  different.  The  whole  runs  thus :  "  The 
kuowers  of  brahma  know  that  living  heing  which  resides  in  the  lotus  with  nine 
gates,  invested  with  the  three  qualities "  {tribhir  gwnebhir  avritam).  Eoth,  s.v. 
guna,  translates  the  last  three  words  by  "  triply  enveloped,"  and  refers  in  support 
of  this  sense  to  verses  29  and  32  of  the  hymn  before  us,  and  to  Chhandogya  tTp. 
anishad,  viii.  1, 1.  It  is  possible,  however,  that  there  may  be  here  a  first  reference 
to  the  three  gunas  afterwards  so  celebrated  in  Indian  philosophical  speculation. 


S78  SKAMBHA  AND  BEAHMA. 


(7)  Shamhha  and  Brahma. 


In  the  following  hymn  of  the  A.V.  (x.  7)  the  Supreme  Deity 
appears  to  be  celebrated  under  the  appellation  of  Skambha  (or  Sup- 
port).*'^ Though  it  is  rather  tedious,  I  shall  translate  it  nearly  in 
full,  as  these  ancient  guesses  after  truth  no  doubt  contain  the  germ  of 
some  of  the  later  speculations  on  the  same  topics.  In  the  first  part 
(verses  1-6,  10-12)  Skambha  is  considered  (like  Purusha,  with  whom 
he  seems  to  be  identified,  verse  15)  as  a  vast  embodied  being,  co- 
extensive with  the  universe,  and  comprehending,  in  his  several  mem- 
bers, not  only  the  different  parts  of  the  material  world,  but  a  variety 
of  abstract  conceptions,  such  as  austere  fervour  (ta^as),  faith,  truth, 
and  the  divisions  of  time.  He  is  distinct  from,  and  superior  to,  Praja- 
pati,  who  founds  the  worlds  upon  him  (verses  7,  8,  17).  The  thirty- 
three  gods  are  comprehended  in  him  (verses  13,  22,  and  27),  and  arose 
out  of  nonentity,  which  forms  his  highest  member,  and,  as  weU  as 
entity,  is  embraced  within  him  (verses  10,  25).  The  gods  who  form 
part  of  him,  as  branches  of  a  tree  (verse  38),  do  him  homage,  and 
bring  him  tribute  (verse  39).  He  is  identified  with  Indra  (in  verses 
29  and  30) ;  and  perhaps  also  with  the  highest  Brahma,  who  is  men- 
tioned in  verses  32-34,  36,  and  in  the  first  verse  of  the  next  hymn, 
X.  8,  1.  In  verse  36,  however,  this  Brahma  is  represented  as  being 
bom  (or,  perhaps,  developed)  from  toil  and  tapas,  whilst  in  x.  8,  1,  the 
attributes  of  the  Supreme  Deity  are  assigned  to  him.  In  compositions 
of  this  age,  however,  we  are  not  to  expect  very  accurate  or  rigorous 
thinking,  or  perfect  consistency  : — 

1.  Kasminn  ange  tapo  asyadhi  tishthati  Icmminn  ange  ritam  asya  adhy 
oMtam  I  Iwa  vratam  kva  iraddha  'sya  tishthati  kasminn  ange  satyam  asya 
pratishthitam  |  2,  Kasmad  angad  dipyate  agnir  asya  kasmad  angdt 
pavate  matarisva  \  kasmad  angad  vi  mimlte  'dhi  chandramdh  mahah 
Skamhhasya  mimano  angam  \  3.  Zasminn  ange  tishthati  hhumir  asya 
kasminn  ange  tishthati  anta/riksham  \  kasminn  ange  tishthati  ahitd  dyauh 
kasminn  ange  tishthati  uttaram  divah  \  4.  £va  prepsan  dipyate  urdhvo 
agni^  kva  prepsan  pa/oate  matariha  \  yatra  prepsantlr  ahhi  yanti  dvritah 

6'2  This  word  occurs  in  R.V.  viii.  41,  10 :  so  dhama  punymn  mmne  yah  skam- 
bhena  vi  rodast  ajo  na  dyam  adharayat  |  "  He  formed  the  first  abode,  lie  who  with  a 
prop  {skamiha)  held  apart  the  two  worlds,  like  the  unborn," 


SKAMBHA  AND  BEAHMA.  379 

Slcambha0i  tarn  Iruhi  hatamah  svid  eva  sah  \  5.  Kva  ardhamasdh  h>a 
yanti  masah  samvatsarena  saha  sa'ffividanah  \  yatra  yanti  ritcmo  yatra 
artamah  Skambham  tarn  hruhi —  |  6.  Kva  prepsanti  yuvatl  virupe 
ahoratre  dravatah  samvidane  \  yatra  prepsantlr  ahhiyanti  apah  Skam- 
bham —  I  7.  Yasmin  stabdhva  Frajapatw  lolcan  sarvan  adhdrayat  \ 
Skambham — (  8.  Yat  paramam  avamam  yaoh  cha  madhyamam  Prajd- 
patih  sasrye  visvarupam  \  hvyatd  Skcmibhah  praviveka  tatra  yan  na 
pravisat  Myat  tad  habhuva  \  9.  Kiyatd  Shambhah  pravweia  bhutam 
kiyad  bhvmishyad  anu  asaye  'sya  ]  ekam  yad  angam  akrinot  sahasradha 
kiyatd  Skambhah  pravivesa  tatra  |  10.  Yatra  lokdmi  cha  koidmi  cha  apo 
brahmajandh  viduh  |  asach  cha  yatra  saohchdntah  Skambham  tarn  bruhi 
katamah  svid  eva  sah  \  11.  Yatra  tapah  parakramya  vratafa  dhdrayaty 
uttmram  \  ritam  cha  yatra  iraddhd  cha  dpo  brahma  samdhitd  Skambham 
— I  12.  Yasmin  bhumir  antarikshaih  dyaw  yasminn  adhydhitd  \  yat- 
ragnis  chandramah  suryo  vatas  tishthanti  drpitd  Skambham — |  13. 
Yasya  trayastrimSad  devdh  ange  sarve  samdhitdh  |  Skambham — |  14. 
Yatra  rishayah  prathamajdh  richah  sdma  yajwr  mahl  \  eka/rshir  yasminn 
arpitah  Skambhamr^-]  15.  Yatrdmriiam  cha  mrityui  cha  Purvshc  'dhi 
samdhite  |  samudro  yasya  nddyah  Pwruslm  'dhi  samdhitd  Skambham — | 
16.  Yasya  chatasrah  pradiso  nddyas  tishthanti  prathamdh  \  yajno  yatra 
pardkrdntah  Skambham — |  17.  Ye  Pwushe  Brahma  vidus  te  viduh 
Parameshthinam  \  yo  veda  P-a/rameshthinam  yai  cha  veda  Prqjdpatim  \ 
iyestham  ye  brdhmanam  vidm  te  Skambham  anu  samviduh  |  18.  Yasya 
Siro  VaisvdnaraS  chakshw  Angi/raso  'bha/van  \  angdni  yasya  Yatavah 
Skambham — |  19.  Yasya  brahma  mukham  dhur  jih/vdm  madhuka^dm 
uta  I  virdjam  udho  yasydhu^  Skambharfi — |  20.  Yasmdd  richo  apdta- 
kshan  yajwr  yasmdd  apdkashan  \  sdm&ni  ■  yasya  lomdni  atharvdngiraso 
mukham  \  Skambham — |  21.  Asachchhdkhdm  pratiskthanttm  paramam 
iva  jandh  viduJf.  \  uto  san  manyante  'vare  ye  te  sdkhdm  updsate  \  22. 
Yatrdditydi  cha  Rudrdi  cha  Vasava^  cha  samdhitdh  |  bhutam  eha  yatra 
bhavyam  cha  sarve  lokdh  pratishthitdh  \  Skambham — |  23.  Yasya  tra- 
yastriihsad  devdh  nidhim  rakshamti  sarvadd  \  nidhim  tam  adya  ko  veda 
yam  devdh  abhirakshatha  \  24.  Yatra  devdh  brahmavido  Brahma  j'yesh- 
tham  tipdsate  \  yo  vai  tan  vidydt  pratyaksham  sa  brahma  veditd  syat  | 
25.  Brihanto  ndma  te  devdh  ye  'satah  paryq^'nire  \  ekafh  tad  migaih, 
Skambhasya  asad  dhuh  paro  Jandh  \  26.  Yatra  Skambhah  prajamayan 
purdnam  vywoartayat  |   ekam  tad  angam  Skambhasya  pwdnam  anu 


380  SKAMBHA  AND  BEAHMA. 

sammduh  \  27.  Yasya  trat/astriMsad  devah  ange  gatra  vi  hhejire  | 
tan  vai  trayastrimiad  devan  eke  Irahmmido  viduh  \  28.  Siranya- 
garhham  paramam  anatyudyam  janah  viduh  \  Shambhas  tad  agre  pra- 
sinohad  Mranyarh  loJce  antara  |  29.  Slcambhe  loMh  SJcambhe  tapah 
Sharribhe  ^dhy  ritam  ahitam  \  SIcambha  tva  veda  pratyaksham  Indre 
swrvafh  samahitam  \  30.  Indre  lohah  Indre  tapah  Indre  'dhy  ritam 
ahitam  \  Indram  {Indra  f)  tva  veda  pratyahsha'^  Skambhe  sarvam 
pratishthitam  \  31.  Namna  noma  johavlti  pwra  surydt  puroshasah  \ 
yad  ajah  prathamath  sambabhuva  sa  ha  tat  svarajyam  iyaya  yasman 
nanyat  param  asti  bhutam  \  32.  Yasya  bhumih  pramd  anta/rihsham 
utoda/ram  \  divam  yak  chals/re  murdhanam  tasmai  jyeshthaya  Brahmane 
namah  \  33.  Yasya  Suryai  ehahhuk  chandramak  eha  punar  nwoah  \ 
Agnim  yak  chahre  asyam  tasmai —  |  34.  Yasya  vatah  pranapanam 
ehalcshur  Angiraso  'bhavan  \  diko  yak  chaJcre  prqfnanu  tasmai  jyesthay a 
Brahmane  namah  \  35.  Shambho  dadhara  dyava-prithivt  ubhe  ime  Skam- 
bho  dadhara  urv  antarihham  |  Skambho  dadhara  pradikah  shad  urvih 
Skambhah  idam  vikvam  bhv/vanam  a  viveka  \  36.  Yah  kramat  tapaso  jato. 
lohan  sarvan  samanake  |  Somam  yak  ehakre  kevalam  tasmai  jyeshthaya 
Brahmane  namah  \  37.  Kathafh  vato  nelayati  katha'm  na  ramate  manah  | 
Mm  apah  satyam  prepsantir  nelayanti  kadachana  \  38.  Mahad  yaksham 
bhuvanasya  madhye  tapasi  krantam  salilasya  prishthe  \  tasmin  krayante 
ye  u  ke  eha  devah  vrikshasya  skandhah  pa/ritah  iva  kakhah  \  39.  Yasrmi 
hastabhydm  pdddbhyam  vdcha  krotrena  chakshushd  \  yasmai  devdh  sadd 
balim  prayachhanti  .vimite'mitam  \  Shambham  tarn  bruhi  katamah  svid 
eva  sa  |  40.  Apa  tasya  hatam  tamo  vydvrittah  sa  pdpmand  \  swrvdni 
tasmin  jyotlmshi  yani  trlni  Prajdpatau  \  41.  Yo  vetasam  hiranyayam 
tishthantam  salile  veda  \  sa  vai  guhyah  Prajdpatih  \ 

"1.  In  what  member  of  his  does  austere  fervour  stand  ?  In 
■which  is  the  ceremonial  contained?  In  what  parts  do  religious  ob- 
servance and  faith  abide  ?  In  what  member  is  truth  established  ?  2. 
From  what  member  does  Agni  blaze  ?  From  which  does  Matari^van 
(the  wind)  blow  ?  From ,  which  does  the  moon  pursue  her  course, 
traversing  the  mighty  body  of  Skambha?  3.  In  what  member  does 
the  earth  reside?  In  which  the  atmosphere?  In  which  is  the  sky 
placed,  and  in  which  the  space  above  the  sky  ?  4.  Whither  tending, 
does  the  upward  fire  blaze  ?  Whither  tending,  does  the  wind  blow  ? 
TeU  who  is  that  Skambha  to  whom  the  paths  tend,  and  into  whom 


SKAMBHA  AKD  BEAHMA.  381 

they  enter.  5.  Whither  tending,  do  the  half-months  and  the  months, 
in  concert  with  the  year,  proceed  ?  Tell  who  is  that  Skambha  to 
whom  the  seasons  and  other  divisions  of  the  year  advance.  6.  "Whither 
tending,  do  the  two  young  females  of  diverse  aspects,  the  day  and  the 
night,  hasten  in  unison  ?  Tell  who  is  that  Skambha  to  whom  the 
waters  tend  and  go  ?  7.  Who  is  that  Skambha  on  whom  Prajapati  has 
supported  and  established  all  the  worlds  ?  8.  How  far  did  Skambha 
penetrate  into  that  highest,  lowest,  and  middle  universe,  comprehend- 
ing all  forms,  which  Prajapati  created  ?  And  how  much  of  it  was 
there  which  he  did  not  penetrate  ?  9.  How  far  did  Skambha  pene- 
trate into  the  past  ?  and  how  much  of  the  future  is  contained  in  his 
receptacle?  How  far  did  Skambha  penetrate  into  that  one  member 
which  he  separated  into  a  thousand  parts  ?  10.  Tell  who  is  that 
Skambha  in  whom  men  recognize  the  worlds  and  receptacles,  the 
waters  and  divine  thought  [as  existing],  and  within  whom  are  non- 
entity and  entity;  (11)  in  whom  austere  fervour  {tapas),  energizing, 
maintains  its  highest  action  {vrata),  in  whom  the  ceremonial,  faith, 
the  waters,  and  divine  science  are  comprehended  ;  (12)  in  whom 
earth,  atmosphere,  sky,  fire,  moon,  sun,  and  wind  are  placed;  (13)  in 
whose  body  all  the  thirty-three  gods  are  contained;^*'  (14)  in  whom 
the  earliest  Rishis,  the  Eik,  the  Saman,  the  Tajush,  the  earth,  and  the 
one  Eishi  reside ;  (15)  that  Purusha,  in  whom  immortality  and  death 
are  comprehended;  who  has  the  ocean  within  him  as  his  veins ;  (16) 
that  Skambha,  of  whom  the  four  regions  are  the  primeval  arteries,  and 
in  whom  sacrifice  displays  its  energy.  17.  They  who  know  the  divine 
essence  (Irahma)  in  Purusha,  know  Parameshthin.^**  He  who  knows 
Parameshthin,  and  he  who  knows  Prajapati  —  they  who  know  the 
highest  divine  mystery  (hrahmana)  ^^^  know  in  consequence  Skambha. 
18.  Tell  who  is  that  Skambha  of  whom  Vaisvanara  (Agni)  is  the  head, 
the  Angirases  the  eye,  and  the  Tatus  (demons)  are  the  limbs  ;  (19)  of 
whom  they  say  divine  knowledge  (brahma)  is  the  mouth,  the  Madhu- 
kasa  °^  the  tongue,  and  the  Viraj  the  udder ;  (20)  from  whom  they 

'8'  See  Dr.  Haug's  Essay  on  the  sacred  language  of  the  Parsees,  p.  233. 

'6*  Son  of  Prajapati  according  to  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  1,  6,  14,  16;  gives  sacrifice  to 
Prajapati,  Taitt.  S.  i.  6,  9,  2.     See  Comm.  there,  p.  914. 

«8s  See  verses  20,  33,  and  37  of  A.V.  x.  8,  to  be  quoted  below. 

'66  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufrecht  for  an  explanation  of  this  word,  and  an 
indication  of  some  passages  in  which  it  is  mentioned.    In  E.V.  i.  22,  3,  and  i.  157,  4, 


382  SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA. 

hewed  oflf  the  Eik  verses,  and  cut  off  the  Tajus ;  of  whom  the  Sama 
verses  are  the  hairs,  and  the  Atharvangirases  {i.e.  the  Atharva-veda) 
the  mouth.™'  21.  Men  regard  the  hranch  of  nonentity, ™°  which  is 
prominent,  as  if  it  were  paramount ;  and  inferior  men,  as  many  as 
worship  thy  branch,  regard  it  as  an  entity.  22.  Tell  who  is  that 
Skambha  in  whom  the  Adityas,  Eudras,  and  Vasus  are  contained,  on 
whom  the  past,  the  future,  and  all  worlds  are  supported ;  (23)  whose 
treasure  the  thirty-three  gods  continually  guard.  Who  now  knows 
the  treasure  which  ye  guard,  o  gods  ?  24.  "Where  the  gods,  the 
knowers  of  sacred  science  {hrahma),  worship  the  highest  divine  essence 
{hrahma) ; — the  priest  (Irahma)  who  knows  these  [gods]  face  to  face 
will  be  a  sage.  25.  Mighty  indeed  are  those  gods  who  have  sprung 
from  nonentity.  Men  say  that  that  nonentity  is  one,  the  highest, 
member  of  Skambha  (compare  v.  10,  above).  26.  Where  Skambha 
generating,  brought  the  Ancient  {pwam)  into  existence,  they  con- 
sider that  that  Ancient  is  one  member  of  Skambha,  (27)  in  whose 
members   the  thirty-three   gods  found  their   several  bodies.      Some 


the  A^vins  are  said  to  have  a  honied  whip,  kasS  madhumaiJ,  with  .which  they  are  be- 
sought to  sprinkle  the  worshippers,  or  their  sacrifice.  The  Maruts  are  also  said,  in 
E.V.  i.  37,  3,  and  i.  168,  4,  to  have  whips,  though  they  are  not  said  to  be  honied. 
In  the  Nighantu,  however,  the  sense  of  speech  is  ascribed  to  Kas'd ;  and  a  mystical 
signification  is  also  assigned  to  the  word  madhu,  honey,  which  Dadhyanch  is  said, 
E.V.  i.  116, 12,  and  i.  117,  22,  to  have  made  known  to  the  As'vins.  This  is  explained 
by  Sayana  on  these  two  passages  as  meaning  that  he  gave  them  a  Brahmana  reveal- 
ing the  Madhuvidya ;  and  Mahidhara,  on  Vaj.  S.  7, 11,  understands  the  haia  madhu- 
matt  as  referring  to  this  mystic  lore.  This  Madhukas'a  is  celebrated  at  considerable 
length  in  A.V.  ix.  1,  where  it  is  said  that  she  "sprang  from  the  sky,  the  earth,  the 
air,  the  sea,  fire,  and  wind,"  and  that  "all  creatures,  worshipping  her  who  dwells  in 
immortality,  rejoice  in  their  hearts  "  [divas  prithivyah  cmtarilcsJiat  samudrad  agner 
vatad  madhuhas'a  vi  jajne  \  tarn  ehayitva  amritam  vasanaih  hridbhih  prajah  prati 
nmdanti  sanah).  Inverses  3,  10,  she  is  said  to  be  the  "brilliant  grand-daughter 
of  the  Maruts  "  {Marutam  tigra  naptih),  and  in  verse  4,  to  be  the  "mother  of  the 
Adityas,  the  daughter  of  the  Vasus,  the  life  of  creatures,  and  the  centre  of  immor- 
tality" (mata  "dityanam  duhita  Vasunam  pranak  prajanam  amritasya  nabhih). 

s"  Compare  A.V.  ix.  6,  1 :  "  He  who  clearly  knows  Brahma,  of  whom  the  mate- 
rials of  sacrifice  are  the  joints,  the  Eik-verses  are  the  backbone,  the  Sama-verses  the 
hairs,  the  Tajus  is  said  to  be  the  heart,  and  the  oblation  the  covering  "  [yo  vidyad 
Srithma  parumshi  yasya  sambharah  richo  yasya  anukyam  |  samani  yasya  lomSni 
yajur  hridayam  uchyate  paristaranam  id  havih). 

66B  The  sense  of  this  verse  is  obscure,  and  it  does  not  seem  to  be  very  closely  con- 
nected either  with  what  precedes  or  with  what  follows.  I  have  adopted  partly  the 
rendering  suggested  by  Professor  Aufrecht. 


SKAMBHA  AND  BEAHMA.  383 

possessors  of  sacred  knowledge  know  those  thirty-three  gods.  28. 
Men  know  Hiranyagarbha  "'  to  be  supreme  and  ineffable.  Skambha 
in  the  beginning  shed  forth  that  gold  {hiranya,  out  of  which  Hiranya- 
garbha arose)  in  the  midst  of  the  world.  29.  In  Skambha  are  con- 
tained the  worlds,  austere  fervour,  and  the  ceremonial.  Skambha,  I 
clearly  know  thee  to  be  contained  entire  in  Indra.  30.  In  Indra  are 
contained  the  worlds,  austere  fervour,  and  the  ceremonial.  Indra, 
I  clearly  know  thee  to  be  contained  entire  in  Skambha.  31.  (The 
worshipper)  repeatedly  invokes  the  [god  who  bears  the  one]  name  by 
the  name  [of  the  other  god]  before  the  sun,  before  the  dawn.™  "When 
the  Unborn  first  sprang  into  being,  he  attained  to  that  independent 
dominion,  than  that  which  nothing  higher  has  ever  been.  32.  Eeve- 
rence  be  to  that  greatest  Brahma,  of  whom  the  earth  is  the  basis,  the 
atmosphere  the  beUy,  who  made  the  sky  his  head,  (33)  of  whom  the 
sun  and  the  ever-renewed  moon  are  the  eye ;  who  made  Agni  his 
mouth,  (34)  of  whom  the  wind  formed  two  of  the  vital  airs,  and  the 
Angirases  the  eye,  who  made  the  regions  his  organs  of  sense.'"  35. 
Skambha  established  both  these  [worlds],  earth  and  sky,  the  wide 
atmosphere,  and  the  six  vast  regions ;  Skambha  pervaded  this  entire 
universe.  36.  Eeverence  to  that  greatest  Brahma  who,  born  from 
toil  and  austere  fervour  {t(vpm),  penetrated  aU  the  worlds,  who  made 
soma  for  himself  alone.°"  37.  How  is  it  that  the  wind  does  not 
rest  ?  How  is  not  the  soul  quiescent  ?  Why  do  not  the  waters, 
seeking  after  truth,  ever  repose?  38.  The  great  being  [is]  absorbed 
in  austere  fervour  in  the  midst  of  the  world,  on  the  surface  of  the 
waters.  To  him  all  the  gods  are  joined,  as  the  branches  around  the 
trunk  of  a  tree.  39.  Say  who  is  that  Skambha  to  whom  the  gods, 
with  hands,  feet,  voice,  ear,  eye,  present  continually  an  unlimited  , 
tribute.'''^  40.  By  him  darkness  is  dispelled  ;  he  is  free  from  evil ;  in 
him  are  aU.  the  three  luminaries  which  reside  in  Prajapati.     41.  He 

«69  See  above,  p.  355. 

""  The  meaning  of  this,  as  suggested  by  Professor  Airfrecht,  is,  that  by  invoking 
Indra,  the  worshipper  really  worships  Skambha. 

«'!  Compare  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  vol.  v.  p.  1616,  s.v.  prajnana. 

"*  Snch  is  the  sense  according  to  Roth,  s.v.  kmala. 

"3  Compare  A.V.  i.  8,  15  ...  .  "the  great  being  in  the  midst  of  the  world :  to 
him  the  rulers  of  Realms  bring  tribute  "  {mahad  ya/csham  bhimanasya  madhye  tasmai 
halim  rashtraihrito  iharcmti). 


384  SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA. 

who  knows  the  golden  reed  standing  in  the  waters  is  the  mysterious 
Prajapati."  "* 

I  have  heen  favoured  with  the  following  note  on  the  subject  of  A.V. 
X.  7,  by  Professor  Goldstiicker,  whom  I  consulted  as  to  the  sense  of 
verse  21  and  the  idea  conveyed  by  the  word  Skambha,  which  forms  the 
subject  of  the  hymn : — 

"  The  sense  of  shamlha  is,  in  my  opinion,  the  same  as  that  given  in 
your  Original  Sanskrit  Texts,  vol.  iv.  pp.  17,  Ushamhh  and  stambh 
being  merely  phonetic  varieties  of  the  same  dhatu  —  and  shamlJui, 
therefore,  the  same  as  stambha.  It  is  the  'fulcrum,'  and  in  the 
Atharva-veda  hymns,  x.  7  and  8,  seems  to  mean  the  fulcrum  of  the 
whole  world,  in  all  its  physical,  religious,  and  other  aspects.  The 
object  of  the  hymn  being  to  inquire  what  this  fulcrum  is,  from  the 
answer  given  to  the  various  questions  it  seems  to  follow  that  it  is  there 
imagined  to  be  the  priipitive  deity,  or  the  primitive  Veda,  the  word 
Irahman  in  the  neuter  implying  both.  From  this  primitive  Veda,  not 
visibly  but  really  [sat^  existing,  not  only  aU  the  gods,  worlds,  religious 
rites,  etc.  (verses  1,  2  ff.,  19  ff.)  were  derived,  but  also  the  existing 
three  Vedas  (v.  14)  and  the  Atharvan  were  'fashioned'  (verse  20). 
This  skambha  is,  therefore,  also  jyeshtJiam  Irahna  (verses  24,  32,  33, 
34,  36, — 8,  1),  and  it  has  a  corresponding  'piesey aljyestham  hrahmanam 
(verse  17).  Hence,  while  he  who  knows  the  (existing)  Veda,  has  also 
a  knowledge  of  Brahma, — he  who  knows  Brahma  and  also  Prajapati, 
and  (hence)  possesses  a  knowledge  of  the  preseval  Brahmana  portion 
(of  the  preaeval  Veda),  may  infer  {firm)  from  such  knowledge  a  know- 
ledge of  the  Skambha  or  that  of  the  preseval  Veda  itself  (verse  17). 
This  preaeval  Veda  is  the  'treasure'  which  is  kept  by  the  gods  only 
(verse  23) ;  hence,  the  Atharva-veda  priest  (brahma),  who  has  a  know- 
ledge of  those  god-guardians  of  the  preaeval  Veda,  has  ihe  knowledge 
(or,  he  who  has  such  a  knowledge,  is  a  (true)  Atharva-veda  priest, 
verse  24).     Prom  this,  then,  it  would  likewise  follow  that  the  existing 

«'*  In  the  E.V.  x.  95,  4,  5  (compare  Nirukta,  iii.  21),  and  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  5,  1, 1, 
the  word  vaitasa  has  the  sense  of  memhrvm  nrile.  Are  we  to  understand  the  word 
vetam  (reed)  in  the  same  sense  here,  as  denoting  a  Linga  ?  The  words  vetaso  hiran- 
yayah  are  also  found  in  E.V.  iv.  68,  6 :  "  I  behold  the  streams  of  butter  [ghrita) ; 
iu  the  midst  of  them  is  the  golden  reed  {hiranyayo  vetasah),"  which  the  commentator 
interprets  as  meaning  ap-samhhcmo  'gnir  vaidyutali,  the  "  fire  of  the  lightning  pro- 
duced iu  the  aerial  waters." 


SKAMBIIA  AND   BRAHMA.  385 

three  Vedag  are  merely  portions  of  the  preseval  Veda,  whence  they 
were  derived,  or,  to  adhere  to  the  metaphor,  branches  of  that  tree- 
fulcrum  (compare  verse  38) ;  and,  moreover,  that  while  sicambha  is  the 
reality,  these  branch  vedas  are  not  the  reality,  though  those  who  do  not 
imderstand  the  Skambha,  may  take  them  for  such  (verse  21).  '  Some 
people  think  that  the  existing  branch  (i.e.  the  existing  Vedas — compare 
verse  20),  which  is  not  the  reality  {asat),  is,  as  it  were  {iva),  the 
highest  {pmramam)  Veda  ;  on  the  other  hand,  those  (people)  inferior 
(to  the  former),  who  believe  that  it  is  the  reality  {sat),  worship  thy 
branch  {i.e.  those  later  Vedas).'  Here  the  word  iva,  in  my  opinion, 
implies  that  the  janah  of  the  first  half  verse  have  still  a  doubt,  and, 
therefore,  do  not  identify  both  the  preseval  and  the  existing  Vedas; 
whereas,  those  people  introduced  with  uto  {uta-u)  are  more  ignorant  in 
assuming  for  certain  such  an  identity,  and  therefore  proceed  to  a 
practical  worship  of  those  Vedas." 

I  quote  in  addition  some  verses  from  the  hymn  next  in  order, 
A.V.  X.  8  :— 

To  hhutam  cha  hhavyam  cha  sarvam  ya&  chddhitishihati  \  svar  yasya 
cha  Icevalam  taamai  jyeshths.ya  Brahmane  namah  \  2.  Slcambheneme  Dishta- 
hhite  dyaus  cha  hhumis  cha  tishthatah  \  Shanibhah  iiarn  sarvam  atmanvad 
yat  pranad  nimishach  cha  yat ....  |  11.  Yad  ejati  patati  yach  cha  tish- 
thuti  pranad  apranad  nimishach  cha  yad  Ihuvat  |  tad  dadhnra  prithivim 
msvarupam  tat  samlKuya  Ihavaty  elcam  eva  \  12.  Anantam  vitatam 
purutra  anantam  antavaoh  cha  a  samante  \  te  ndJcapalas  charati  vichinvan 
vidvdn  hhutam  uta  hhavyam  asya  \  13.  Prajapatis  charati  garlhe  antar 
airiiyamano  hdhudha  vi  jayate  \  ardhena  viivam  hhuvanam  jajdna  yad 
asya  ardhafh,  Icatamah  sa  kefuh  .  .  .  .  |  16.  Yatah  Suryah  udeti  astam 
yatra  cha  gachhati  \  tad  eva  manye  ''ham  jyeshthark  tad  u  ndtyeti  Icin- 
ehana  .  .  .  .  |  20.  Yo  vai  te  vidydd  a/ram  ydhhyam  nirmathyate  vasu  | 
sa  vidvdn  jyeshtham  many  eta  sa  vidydd  Irdhmanam  mahat  .  .  .  .  | 
34.  Yatra  devdscha  manushydscha  ardh  ndhhdv  iva  iritdh  \  apdih  tvd 
pushpam  priohhdmi  yatra  tan  mdyaya  hitam  ....  37.  Yo  vidydt 
sutram  vitatafh  yasminn  otdh  prajdh  imdh  \  sittram  sutrasya  yo  vidydt  sa 
vidydd  hrdhmanam  mahat  \  38.  Veddham  sutram  vitatam  yasminn  otdJj, 
prajdh  imdh  \  sutram  sulrasydharh  veda  ayio  yad  Irdhmanam  mahat . . . .  | 
43.  Pundariham  navadvdram  trihhir  gunebhir  avritam  \  tasmin  yad  yalc- 
sham  dtmanvat  tad  vai  Irahmwvido  viduh  \  44.  Ahdmo  dhiro  amritah 

25 


386  SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA. 

avayamlhuh  rasena  tripto  na  hutakhmonah  \  tam  eva  vidvan  na  hibhaya 
mrityor  atmanam  dhiram  ajaram  ymanam  \ 

"  1.  Eeverence  to  that  greatest  Brahma  who  presides  over  the  past, 
the  future,  the  universe,  and  whose  alone  is  the  sky.  2.  These  two 
[worlds],  the  sky  and  the  earth,  exist,  supported  hy  Skambha.  Skam- 
hha  is  all  this  which  has  soul,  which  breathes,  which  winks  ....  11. 
That  which  moves,  flies,  stands,  which  has  existed  breathing,  not 
breathing,  and  winking  ;  that  omniform  (entity)  has  established  the 
earth;  that,  combined,  is  one  only.  12.  The  infinite  extended  on 
many  sides,  the  infinite  and  the  finite  all  around, — these  two  thje 
ruler  of  the  sky  proceeds  discriminating,  knowing  the  past  and  the 
future  of  this  (universe).  13.  (=Vaj.  San.  31,  19)  Prajapati  moves 
within  the  womb.  Though  unseen,  he  is  born  in  many  forms.  "With 
the  half  [of  himself]  he  produced  the  whole  world.  What  trace  is 
there  of  the  [other]  half  of  him?  ....  16.  I  regard  as  the  greatest 
That  whence  the  sun  rises,  and  That  where  he  sets ;  That  is  not  sur- 
passed by  anything  ....  20.  He  who  knows  the  two  pieces  of  fire- 
wood from  which  wealth  is  rubbed  out,  he,  so  knowing,  will  under- 
stand that  which  is  the  greatest ;  he  will  know  the  great  divine 
mystery  {Irahmana)  ....  34.  I  ask  thee  regarding  that  flower  of  the 
waters,  in  which  gods  and  men  are  fixed  as  spokes  in  the  nave  of  a 
wheel, — where  that  was  placed  by  [divine]  skUl  (mayo)  ....  37.  He 
who  knows  that  extended  thread  on  which  these  creatures  are  strung, 
who  knows  the  thread'  of  the  thread, — he  knows  that  great  divine 
mystery  {Irahmana).  38.  I  know  that  extended  thread  on  which 
these  creatures  are  strung.  I  know  the  thread  of  the  thread,  and 
hence,  too,  that  which  is  the  great  divine  mystery  ....  43.  The 
possessors  of  divine  science  (brahma)  know  that  being  within  the  lotus 
with  nine  gates,  which  is  enveloped  by  the  three  qualities  {gunas)."^ 
44.  Knowing  that  soul  {atman)  calm,  undeoaying,  young,  free  from 
desire,  immortal,  self-existent,  satisfied  with  the  essence,  deficient  in 
nothing,  a  man  is  not  afraid  of  death." 

Some  verses  in  the  two  preceding  hymns  speak  of  the  highest,  or 
greatest,  Brahma,  in  whatever  sense  that  term  is  to  be  understood. 

I  am  unable  to  state  whether  Brahma  in  the  sense  of  the  supreme 

"5  See  note  in  p.  377. 


SKAMBHA  AND  BEAHMA.  387 

Deity  occurs  elsewhere  in  the  Atharva-veda,  unless  it  be  in  the  follow- 
ing passage  (xi.  8,  30  ff.) :  yah  apo  yas  elm  devatah  ya  Virad  Brah- 
mand  saha  \  ia/nram  Brahma  praxikat  iwrire  ^dhi  Prajapatih  \  31. 
SuryaS  chjihhw  vatah  pranam  pti/rushasya  vi  hhejire  \  athdsyetaram 
atmanam  devdh  prayachhann  Agnaye  \  32.  Tasmdd  vai  vidvan  pwruiham 
idam  Brahmeli  manyate  |  sarvdh  hi  asmin  devatah  ga.no  goshthe  ivasate  \ 
"The  waters,  the  gods,  Yiraj  {feminine)  with  Brahma  [entered  into 
man].  Brahma  entered  his  body ;  Prajapati  [presides]  over  his  body. 
31.  Surya  occupied  the  eye,  and  Vata  the  breath  of  the  man.  Then  the 
gods  gave  his  other  soul  to  Agni.  32.  "Wherefore  one  who  knows  the 
man  thinks,  '  this  is  Brahma ; '  for  all  the  gods  are  in  him,  as  cows  in 
a  cowhouse." 

In  the  Vaj.  San.  xxiii.  47,  we  find  the  following  words:  Mm  svit 
Surya-samam  jyotih  him  samudra-samafh  sarah  |  ....  48.  Brahma 
Surya-samam  jyotir  dyauh  samudra-samam  sarah  |  "  What  light  is 
equal  to  the  sun  ?  What  lake  is  equal  to  the  sea  ?  "  To  which  the 
following  verse  gives  the  answer :  "  Brahma  (neuter)  is  a  light  equal 
to  the  sun.  The  sky  is  a  lake  equal  to  the  sea."  The  commentator 
explains  Brahma  in  this  passage  as  standing  either  for  the  three  Vedas 
or  the  supreme  Brahma. 

In  S'atap.  Br,  x.  6,  5,  9,  it  is  stated  in  a  genealogy  of  teachers  that 
"  Tura  Kavasheya  sprang  from  Prajapati,  and  Prajapati  from  Brahma, 
who  is  self-existent "  [Turah  Kdvasheyah  Prajdpateh  Prajdpatir  Brah- 
manah  |  Brahma  svayamhhu).  In  another  passage,  already  quoted, 
from  the  same  work  (xiii.  7,  1,  1)  Brahma  (in  the  neuter),  the  seH- 
existent,  is  described  as  performing  tapas,  and  as  sacrificing  himself. 
Ibid.  X.  4,  19,  a  verse  is  quoted  from  some  hymn  which  begins,  "I 
celebrate  the  one  great  imperishable  Brahma  who  was  and  is  to  be  " 
(^" Bhutam  hhavuhyat prastaumi mahad  Brahmaikam  ahharam"). 

Again,  in  the  same  work,  xi.  3,  3,  1,  the  same  being  is  represented 
as  giving  over  other  creatures,  except  the  Brahmaoharin,  or  religious 
student,  to  death  {Brahma  vai  mrityave  prajah  prdyachhat  \  tasmai 
Irahmachdrinam  eva  na  prdyaehhat).  And  in  xi.  2,  3,  1  ff.,  there  is 
another  text,  which  is  interesting  not  merely  as  introducing  Brahma, 
but  as  containing  what  is  probably  one  of  the  oldest  extant  expositions 
of  the  conception  of  ndma  and  riipa  (name  and  form)  as  comprehending 
the  whole  of  the  phenomenal  universe.     These  two  words,  as  is  well 


388  SKAMBHA  AND  BEAHMA. 

known,  became  at  a  later  period  technical  terms  of  the  Vedanta  philo- 
sophy.    The  passage  runs  as  follows  : — 

Brahma  vai  idam  agre  asit  \  tad  devan  asryafa  \tad  devan  srishtva 
eshu  lokesJiu  vyarohayad  asminn  eva  lohe  Agnim  Vayum  antarihshe  divy 
eva  Suryam  j  2.  A'tha  ye  atah  urdhvdh  lolca^  tad  yah  atah  urdhvah 
devatds  feshu  tah  devatah  vyarohayat  sah  |  yatha  ha  eva  ime  avirlok&h 
ima^  cha  devatah  evam  u  ha  eva  te  avirloJcds  tdhha  devatah  yeshu  tdh 
devatah  vyarohayat  \  3.  Atha  Brahma  eva  parardham  agachhat  \  tat 
pa/rdrdham  gatvd  aihhata  "  katham  nv  imdn  hicdn  pratyaveydm"  iti  \ 
tad  dvdhhydm  eva  pratyavaid  rupena  chaiva  ndmna  cha  sah  \  yasya  hasya 
cha  ndma  asti  tan  ndma  \  yasya  u  api  ndma  ndsti  yad  veda  rupena 
"  idam  rupam  "  iti  tad  rupam  |  etdvad  vai  idam  ydvad  rupam  chaiva 
ndma  cha  \  4-  Te  ha  ete  Brahmano  mahati  aihve  |  sa  yo  ha  ete  BraJi- 
mano  mahati  abhve  veda  mahad  ha  eva  abhvam  Ihavati  \  5.  Te  ha  ete 
Brahmano  mahati  yaJcshe  \  sa  yo  ha  ete  Brahmano  mahati  yakshe  veda 
mahad  ha  eva  yahsham  Ihavati  \  toy  or  anyataraj  jydyo  rupam  eva  \  yad 
hy  api  ndma  rupam  eva  tat  |  sa  yo  hy  etayor  Jydyo  vedajydydn  ha  tasmdd 
bhavati  yasmdj  jydydn  huhhushati  \  martydh  ha  vai  agre  devah  usuh  \ 
sa  yadd  eva  te  Brahmdnd  apur  atha  amritdh  dsuh  \  sa  yam  manasah 
aghdrayati  \  mano  vai  rupam  \  manasd  hi  veda  "idam  rupam"  iti  \ 
tena  rupam  dpnoti  \  atha  yam  vdchah  aghdrayati  \  vdg  vai  ndma  \  vdchd 
hi  ndma  grihnati  \  tena  u  ndma  dpnoti  \  etdvad  vai  idam  sarvafh  ydvad 
rupam,  chaiva  ndma  cha  \  tat  sarvam  dpnoti  \  sarvam  vai  akshayyam  \ 
etena  u  ha  asya  akshayyam  sulcritam  hhavaty  ahsliayyo  hieah  | 

"1.  In  the  beginning  Brahma  was  this  [^universe].  He  created  gods. 
Having  created  gods,  he  placed  them  in  these  worlds,  viz.,  in  this  world 
Agni,  in  the  atmosphere  Vayu,  and  in  the  sky  Surya  ;  (2)  and  in  the 
worlds  which  were  yet  higher  he  placed  the  gods  who  are  still  higher. 
Such  as  are  these  visible  worlds  and  these  gods, — even  such  were  those 
(higher)  visible  worlds  in  which  he  placed  those  (higher)  gods,  and  such 
were  those  gods  themselves.  3.  Then  Brahma  proceeded  to  the  higher 
sphere  (pararddha — explained  by  the  commentator  to  mean  the  Satya- 
loka,  the  most  excellent,  and  the  limit,  of  all  the  worlds).  Having 
gone  to  that  higher  sphere,  he  considered  '  How  now  can  I  pervade  all 
these  worlds  ? '  He  then  pervaded  them  with  two  things — with  form 
and  with  name.  Whatever  has  a  name,  that  is  name.  And  then  that 
which  has  no  name — that  which  he  knows  by  its  form,  that  '  such  is 


SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA.  389 

its  form ' — that  is  form.  This  [universe]  is  so  much  as  is  {i.e.  is  co- 
extensive with)  form  and  name.  4.  These  are  the  two  great  magni- 
tudes (ahhve)  of  Brahma.  He  who  knows  these  two  great  magnitudes 
of  Erahma  becomes  himself  a  great  magnitude.  5.  These  are  the  two 
great  manifestations  of  Brahma.  He  who  knows  these  two  great  mani- 
festations of  Brahma  becomes  himself  a  great  manifestation.  Of  these 
two  one  is  the  greater,  viz.,  form;  for  whatever  is  name  is  also  form. 
He  who  knows  the  greater  of  these  two  becomes  greater  than  him  than 
whom  he  wishes  to  become  greater.  6.  The  gods  were  originally- 
mortal,  but  when  they  were  pervaded  by  Brahma  they  became  im- 
mortal. By  that  which  he  sends  forth  from  his  mind  (mind  is  form  ; 
for  by  mind  he  knows,  '  This  is  form') — by  that,  I  say,  he  obtains  form. 
And  by  that  which  he  sends  out  from  his  voice  (voice  is  name ;  for  by 
voice  he  seizes  name) — by  that,  I  say,  he  obtains  name.  This  universe 
is  so  much  as  is  {i.e.  is  co-extensive  with)  form  and  name.  All  that  he 
obtains.  Now  that  all  is  undecaying.  Hence  he  obtains  undecaying 
merit,  and  an  undecaying  world." 

Compare  with  this  the  passages  of  the  Brihad  Aranyata  Upanishad, 
which  will  be  found  at  pp.  75  if.  and  165  ff.  of  Dr.  Eoer's  translation 
(Bibliotheca  Indica,  vol.  ii.  part  3),  and  the  Mundaka  Upanishad,  iii. 
2,  8,  p.  164  of  English  version. 

Brahma  is  also  mentioned  in  the  following  texts  of  the  Taitt.  Br. 
ii.  8,  8,  9  :— 

Brahma  devan  ajanayat  \  Brahma  viham  idam  jagat  \  Brahmanah 
Tcsliattram  nirmitam  \  Brahma  hrahmanah  atmana  \  antar  asminn  ime 
lokdh  I  10.  Antar  viivam  idam  jagat  \  Brahmaiva  ihutandm  jyesh- 
tham  I  tena  ko  'rhati  sparddhitum  |  Brahman  devaa  trayadrimsat  | 
Brahmann  Indra-pre^apatl  \  Brahman  ha  visva  hhutdni  \  ndvivantah 
samahita  \ 

"  Brahma  generated  the  gods.  Brahma  [generated]  this  entire  world. 
From  Brahma  ™  the  Kshattriya  is  formed.  Brahma  in  his  essence  is 
the  Brahman."'  Within  him  are  all  these  worlds.  10.  "Within  him  is 
this  entire  universe.    It  is  Brahma  who  is  the  greatest  of  beings.  Who 

6"  Here  there  is  an  allusion  to  the  other  sense  of  irahma  as  devotion,  the  peculiar 
function  of  the  Brahman  caste. 

577  "  For,"  says  the  commentator,  "  in  the  Brahman's  body  the  supreme  Brahma 
is  manifested." 


390  PEAJAPATI. 

can  vie  with  him  ?  In  Brahma  the  thirty-three  gods, — ^rn  Brahma,  India 
and  Prajapati, — ^in  Brahma  all  heings  are  contained,  as  in  a  ship." 

Again,  it  is  said  (iii.  12,  3,  1,  quoted  above,  p.  361,  note) :  "Let  us 
vrorship  with  oblations  the  first-born  god,  by  whom  the  entire  universe 
which  exists  is  surrounded, — the  self-existent  Brahma,  who  is  the 
supreme  austere  fervour  (tapas).  It  is  he  who  is  son,  he  who  is  father, 
he  who  is  mother.  Tapas  came  into  existence  the  first  object."  Brahma 
is  also  mentioned  in  iii.  12,  9,  7  (where,  however,  he  is  described  as 
coming  into  existence) :  vi^vasrijah  prathamah  satram  asata  \  sahasra- 
samam  prasute  nayantah  \  iato  ha  jqjne  hhuvanasya  gopah  \  hiranmayah 
kakmnir  Brahma  nama  |  yena  suryas  tapati  tejaseddhah  .  .  .  .  \  na  meda- 
vid  manute  tarn  hrihatam  \  "  The  earliest  creators  of  the  universe  were 
engaged  in  a  sacrifice  for  a  thousand  years  ....  Thence  sprang  the 
protector  of  the  world,  the  golden  bird  called  Brahma,  by  whom  the 
sun  glows,  kindled  with  flame  ....  'No  one  ignorant  of  the  Veda  com- 
prehends that  great  being."  Compare  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6  (quoted 
above,  p.  355),  in  which  Brahma  is  said  to  be  the  forest  and  the  tree 
out  of  which  the  worlds  were  constructed,  and  as  the  basis  on  which 
the  creator  took  his  stand  when  upholding  the  universe. 

(8)  Frqapaii. 

As  I  have  observed  above  (p.  353),  the  word  prajapati,  "lord  of 
creatures,"  was  originally  employed  as  an  epithet  of  Savitri  and  Soma, 
as  it  also  was  of  Hiranyagarbha  (E.V.  v.  121,  10).  It  afterwards, 
however,  came  to  denote  a  separate  deity,  who  appears  in  three  places 
of  the  Eig-veda,  x.  85,  43  (a  nah  prajafh  janayatu  Prcyapatih)  ; 
X.  169,  4  ;  X.  184,  1  (a  sinehatu  Prajapatih),  as  the  bestower  of 
progeny  and  cattle.  This  god  is  also  mentioned  in  the  Yajasaneyi 
Sanhita,  in  a  verse  (xxxi.  19)  which  comes  in  after  one  in  which  the 
great  Purusha  is  celebrated  (see  above,  p.  373).  The  verse  is  as 
follows :  Pr(yapaiii  eharati  garhhe  antar  ajayamdno  lahudha  vijdyate  \ 
tasya  yonim  paripaiyanti  dhiras  tasmin  ha  tasthv/r  hhuvanani  vihd  \ 
"Prajapati  moves  within  the  womb.  Though  he  does  not  become  born, 
he  is  yet  bom  in  many  shapes.  The  wise  behold  his  womb.  In 
him  all  the  worlds  stand."  "^    Another  verse  of  the  V.  8.  in  which  he 

"8  The  first  half  of  this  verse,  as  we  haye  seen,  is  also  found  in  the  A.V.  x.  8,  13, 


PEAJAPATI.  391 

is  referred  to  is  this  (xxxii.  5) :  *'  Yasmaj  jatafh  na  pwra  Mnchanaiva 
yah  ababhuva  Ihv/oandni  visvd  \  Prajapatih  prajayd  samrarams  trini 
jyoiirhshi  sachate  sa  sJiodaii  \  "  He  before  whom  nothing  was  bom,  who 
pervades  all  worlds,  Prajapati,  rejoicing  with  his  offspring,  is  joined 
with  the  thrfee  luminaries,  as  the  sixteenth." 

Prajapati  is  freq^uently  alluded  to  in  the  Atharva-veda.  Several  of 
these  passages  have  been  already  cited  above,  as  x.  7,  7,  17,  40,  41 ; 
X.  8,  13.  Some  of  the  others  which  I  have  observed  are  the  following: 
In  xi.  3,  52,  he  is  said  to  have  formed  thirty-three  worlds  out  of  the 
oblation  of  boiled  rice  {etasmad  vai  odandt  trayastrifhiatam  lokan 
niramimlta  Prajdpatih).  In  xi.  4,  12,  he  is  identified  with  Prdna,  or 
breath  {prdnam  dhuh  Prajapatim).  In  xi.  5,  7,  he  is  said,  along  with 
Parameshthin,  to  have  been  generated  by  the  Brahmaeharin,  or  reli- 
gious student.  In  xi.  7,  3,  he  is  declared  to  exist  in  the  UohMshta,  or 
remnant  of  the  sacrifice.  And  in  xix.  53,  8,  10,  he  is  said  to  have 
been  produced  by  Kdla,  or  Time.  Most  of  these  passages  will  be 
quoted  at  length  further  on.  It  will  be  seen  that  in  this  Veda  he  is 
not  generally  regarded  as  the  supreme  or  primal  deity. 

On  the  subject  of  Prajapati,  I  have  elsewhere  (in  vols.  iii.  4;  iv. 
19-24,  and  47-51)  brought  together  a  considerable  number  of  passages 
from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  of  which  I  shall  here  only  repeat  the 
substance,  adding  any  farther  references  which  I  may  have  noticed  as 
occurring  elsewhere.  Prajapati  is  sometimes  identified  with  the  uni- 
verse, and  described  (in  the  same  way  as  Brahma,  or  entity,  or  non- 
entity are  in  other  places)  as  having  alone  existed  in  the  beginning,  as 
the  source  out  of  which  the  creation  was  evolved,  S'atap.  Br.  ii.  2,  4,  1 ; 
vii.  5,  2,  6;*"  xi.  5,  8,  1.  (See  vol.  i.  p.  24;  vol.  iii.  p.  4;  vol.  iv. 
p.  24.)  The  same  is  the  case  in  some  other  texts  adduced  by  Professor 
Weber  in  his  Ind.  Stud.  ix.  477  f.,  where,  however,  Vach  is  associated 
with  Prajapati  "as  his  companion  in  concert  with  whom,  and  through 

with  the  different  reading  of  adriiyamanah,  "not  being  Been,"  for  ajayamanah,  "not 
being  born."  The  second  line  runs  thus  in  the  A.V. :  "  "With  the  half  he  produced 
the  whole  world.    But  what  trace  is  there  of  his  [other]  half  .p  " 

"^  S'atap.  Br.  vii.  5,  2,  6  :  Prajapatir  vai  idam  a.gre  asld  ekah  eva  \  so  'kamayata 
"annam  srijeya prajdyeya"  iti  sa  pranehhyah  eva  adhi  pasun  niramimTta  manasah 
purusham  chakshusho  'svam  pranad  gam  irotrad  woim  vacho  'ja/m  \  tad  yad  man 
pranebhyo  'dhi  niramimtta  tasmad  ahuh  '^pranali  pasavah"  iti  \  mano  vai pranSnam 
pratAamam  |  tad  yad  manasali  purm/iam  niramimlta  tasmad  ahu^  "pmmhal}  pra- 


392  PRAJAPATI. 

whom,  he  completes  his  work  of  creation."  ™  Thus  it  is  said  in  the 
Eathaka,  xii.  5  (and  xxvii.  1) :  Prajapatw  vai  idam  asU  |  tasya  Vug 
dmitlya  asit  \  tarn  mithuna0i  samalhavat  \  sa  garlham  adhatta  \  sd 
asmad  apdlcramat  \  sa  imah  prajdh  asrijata  \  sd  Prajapatim  eva  punah 
pravUaf  I  "Prajapati  was  this  universe.  Yach  was  a  second  to  him. 
He  associated  sexually  with  her  ;  she  heoame  pregnant ;  she  departed 
from  him ;  she  produced  these  creatures ;  she  again  entered  into  Praja- 
pati." Again,  in  the  Panchavim^a  Br.  xx.  14,  2,  we  are  told  :  "Prajd- 
patir  vai  idam  ekah  dsit  \  tasya  vdg  eva  svam  dsid  vdg  dvitiyd  \  sa 
aikshata  '  imam  eva  Vdcham,  visrijai  \  iyam  vai  idam  sarvam  vibhavanti 
eshyaW  "  iti  \  sa  vdcham  vyasrijata  \  sa  idam  sa/rvam  vihha/vantl  ait  \  sd 
urdhvd  uddtanod  yathd  apd-fn,  dhdrd  santatd  evam  |  "  Prajapati  alone 
was  this  universe.  He  had  Vach  too  as  his  own,  as  a  second  to 
him.  He  considered  '  Let  me  send  forth  this  Vach.  She  will  traverse 
and  pervade  all  this.'  He  sent  her  forth  :  she  traversed  and  per- 
vaded all  this :  she  extended  aloft,  diffused  like  a  stream  of  water." 
In  other  texts  of  the  S'atap.  Br.,  however,  Prajapati  is  not  represented 
as  the  source  of  creation,  but  only  as  one  of  the  subsequent  and  sub- 
ordinate agents,  created  by  the  gods,  vi.  1,  1,  5  (vol.  iv.  of  this  work, 
p.  19  f.),  or  as  springing  out  of  an  egg  generated  by  the  primeval 
waters,  xi.  1,  6,  Iff.  (vol.  iv.  21  f.).  He  is  elsewhere  said  to  have 
offered  sacrifice  in  order  to  produce  the  creation,  ii.  4,  4,  1  (vol.  iv. 
24),  and  to  have  been  himseK  half  mortal  and  half  immortal,  x.  1,  3, 
2  ;  X.  1,  4,  1  (vol.  iv.  p.  47),  mortal  in  his  body,  but  immortal  in  his 
breath,  and  to  have  performed  tapas  for  a  thousand  years,  to  get  rid 
of  sin  or  suffering,  pdpman,  x.  4,  4,  1  (vol.  iv.  51). 


thamah  pasunam  virycmattamah"  iti  \  memo  vai  sane  pranah  |  manasi  hi  sarve 
pranah  pratishthitah  \  tad  yad  mmiasah  purusham  niramimtta  tasmad  Shuh  "puru^ 
shah  sane  pas'avali"  iti  pwushyasya  hy  eva  ete  sarve  bhavanti  \  "Prajapati  alone 
was  at  first  this  [universe].  He  desired,  "  May  I  create  food,  and  become  repro- 
duced.' He  fashioned  animals  from  his  hreaths,  a  man  from  his  soul,  a  horse  from 
his  eye,  a  cow  from  his  breath,  a  sheep  from  his  ear,  a  goat  from  his  voice.  Inas- 
much as  he  created  these  (animals)  from  his  breaths,  they  say  that '  the  breaths  are 
the  animals.'  The  soul  {mamas)  is  the  first  of  the  breaths  j  and  since  he  fashioned 
man  from  his  soul,  they  say  that  '  man  is  the  first  and  strongest  of  animals.'  The  soul 
is'  all  the  breaths,  for  they  are  all  supported  in  it.  Since  then  he  fashioned  man  from 
his  soul,  they  say,  '  man  is  all  the  animals,'  for  they  are  all  his." 

''"  I  observe  that  Professor  Weber  speaks  here  of  the  waters  (flpaK),  the  non- 
eiistent  {asat),  and  Brahman  as  each  denoting  primeval  matter  (Urmaterie). 


PEANA.  393 

Prajapati  may  thus  be  said  to  have  two  characters,  which,  howerer, 
are  not  not  kept  distinct  in  the  Brahmana.  On  the  one  hand,  he  is 
the  result  of  one  of  the  efforts  of  the  Indian  intellect  to  conceive  and 
express  the  idea  of  deity  in  the  abstract,  as  the  great  first  cause  of  all 
things ;  whUe,  on  the  other  hand,  he  is  sometimes  described  as  only  a 
secondary  and  subordinate  divinity,  and  even  treated  as  only  one  of  the 
thirty-three  deities  (as  in  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  6,  3,  5.  See  above,  p.  11; 
and  Bfihtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.v.  Prajapati).  In  the  Brahmana 
itself  (xiv.  1,  2,  18)  we  have  the  following  text,  which  expresses  two 
diflferent  aspects  under  which  the  god  was  regarded,  though,  perhaps, 
these  are  not  identical  with  the  two  points  of  view  which  I  have 
stated :: — Prcyapatir  vai  esho  yajno  hhavati  \  ulhayam  vai  etat  Praja- 
patir  nirukta^  cha  anirulctasoha  parimitai  cha  aparimitas  cJia  \  tad  yad 
ycyusha  haroti  yai  eva  asya  nirulctam  pwrimitam  rupam  tad,  asya  tena 
sarhsharoti  \  atha  yat  tushnim  yai  eva  asya  aniruhtam  aparimitam 
rupam  tad  asya  tena  sarhsharoti  \  "Prajapati  is  this  sacrifice.  Pra- 
japati is  both  of  these  two  things,  declared  and  undeclared,  limited 
and  unlimited.  Whatever  he  (the  priest)  does  with  the  Yajus  text, 
with  that  he  consecrates  that  form  of  Prajapati  which  is  declared  and 
limited.  And  what  he  (the  priest)  does  silently,  with  that  he  con- 
secrates the  form  of  Prajapati,  which  is  undeclared  and  unlimited." 
Compare  the  Maitri  Upanishad,  vi.  3  (p.  83  of  Professor  Cowell's 
ed.)  :  dve  vava  Brahmano  rupe  murtam  cha  amurtam  cha  \  yan  murtafh, 
tad  asatyam  \  yad  amurtam  tat  satyam  \  "  There  are  two  forms  of 
Brahma,  the  embodied  and  the  unembodied.  The  former  is  unreal, 
the  latter  real." 

(9)  Pram. 

A  great  variety  of  other  deities,  of  the  most  heterogeneous  character, 
are  celebrated  in  the  Atharva-veda  as  the  possessors  of  divine  power. 
Though  scarcely  to  be  regarded  as  instances  of  an  abstract  conception 
of  the  deity,  the  representations  of  these  gods  may  be  adduced  here  as 
illustrations  of  the  later  stages  of  the  luxuriant  and  multiform  Vedio 
mythology  and  speculation.  One  of  these  deities  is  Prana,  life  or 
breath,  to  whom  a  hymn  (xi.  4)  is  dedicated,  of  which  the  following 
is  a  specimen.  In  some  verses  he  seems  to  be  identified  with  Par- 
janya  (see  above,  pp.  140  f.) : — 


394  PEANA. 

1.  Pranaya  namo  yasya  sarmm  idam  vaie  \  yo  hkufah  sarvasyeiva/ro 
yasmin  sarvam  pratishthitam  \  2.  Namas  te  Pram  hrandaya  namas  te 
stanayitnwoe  \  namas  te  Pram  vidyute  namas  te  Pram  varshate  \  3.  Yat 
Prdnah  stanayitnuna  abhikrandati  oshadhih  (compare  A.V.  viii.  7,  21)  | 
pramiyante  gwrhhan  dadhate  atho  lahvir  vi  jdyante  |  4.  Yat  Prdnah 
ritav  dgate  alhihrandati  oshadhih  \  sarvam  tadd  pramodate  yat  Mnoha 
bhumydm  adhi  \  5.  Yadd  Prdno  abhyava/rshad  varshena  prithivim 
mahim  [  pasavas  tat pra  modante  " maho  vai  no  Ihavishyati"  \  6.  Alhi- 
vrishtdh  oshadjiayah  Prdnena  sammddiran  \  "  dyw  vai  nah  prdtitarah 
sarvdh  nah  suralMr  alcah"  \  7.  Namas  te  astu  ay  ate  namo  'stu  pwrdyate  \ 
namas  te  Pram  tisJtthate  dsmayota  te  namah  \  9.  Yd  te  Pram  priyd 
tanur  yd  te  Pram  preyasi  \  atho  yad  Iheshajam  tava  tasya  no  dhehi 
jivaae  \  10.  Prdnah  prajdh  anu  vaste  pitd  putram  iva  priyam  \  Prdno  ha 
sa/rvasyesvaro  yach  cha  prdnati  yaoh  cha  nah  \  11.  Prdno  mrityuh 
Prdnas  talcmd  Prdmrh  devdh  icpdsate  |  Prdno  ha  satya/vddinam  uttame 
lohe  a  dadhat  \  12.  Pram  Yirdt  Prdno  Peshtri  Prdnam  sarve  vpdsate  \ 
Prdno  ha  suryas  chandramdh  Prdnam  ahuh  Prajdpatim  \  ....  15. 
Prdnam  dhur  Mdtarihdnam  Vato  ha  Prdnah  uehyate  \  Prdne  ha  hhutam 
Iha/vyam  cha  Prdne  sarvam  pratishthitam  \  16.  Atharvamr  dngirasir 
daivtr  manushyajdh  uta  \  oshadhayah  prajdyante  yadd  tvam  Pram  jin- 
vasi  I  ....  18.  Yas  te  Prdm  idam  veda  yasmims  chdsi  pratishthitah  \ 
sarve  tasmai  lalim  hardn  amushmin  lake  uttame  \  19.  Yatha  Pram 
lalihritas  tulhyafh  sarvdh  prajdh  imdh  \  eva  tasmai  lalim  ha/rdn  yas  tva 
srinavat  suSravah  | 

"  Eeverence  to  Prana,  to  whom  this  universe  is  subject,  who  has 
become  the  lord  of  all,  on  whom  all  is  supported.  2.  Eeverence,  Prana, 
to  thy  shout,  to  tby  thunder,  to  thy  lightning,  and  to  thyself  when 
thou  rainest.  3.  When  Prana  calls  aloud  to  the  plants  with  thunder, 
they  are  impregnated,  they  conceive,  they  produce  abundantly.  4. 
When  the  season  has  arrived,  and  Prana  calls  aloud  to  the  plants,  then 
everything  rejoices,  which  is  upon  the  earth  (compare  E.V.  v.  83,  10, 
above,  p.  140).  5.  When  Prana  has  watered  the  great  earth  with  rain, 
then  the  beasts  rejoice,  and  [think]  that  they  shall  have  strength.  6. 
When  watered  by  Prana,  the  plants  burst  forth  [saying],  '  Thou  hast 
prolonged  our  life,  thou  hast  made  us  all  fragrant.'  7.  Eeverence  to 
thee,  Prana,  coming,  and  to  thee  going,  and  to  thee  standing,  and  to 
thee  sitting  ....  9.  Communicate  to  us  thy  dear  form,  thy  dearest, 


EOHITA.  395 

with  thy  healing  power,  that  we  may  live.  10.  Prana  clothes  the 
creatures,  as  a  father  his  dear  son.  Prana  is  the  lord  of  aU,  both  of 
what  breathes  and  what  does  not  breathe.  11.  Prana  is  death,  Prana 
is  fever.  The  gods  worship  Prana.  Prana  places  the  truth-speaker  in 
the  highest  world.  12.  Prana  is  Viraj,  Prana  is  Deshtrl.  AU  worship 
Prana.  Prana  is  sun  and  moon.  They  call  Prajapati  Prana  ....  15. 
They  call  Matari^van  Prana ;  the  "Wind  is  oaUed  Prana.  The  past, 
the  future,  everything  is  supported  upon  Prana.  16.  The  plants  of 
Atharvan,  of  Angiras,  of  the  gods,  and  of  men,  grow  when  thou, 
Prana;  quickenest  ....  18.  "Whoever,  o  Prana,  knows  this  [truth] 
regarding  thee,  and  on  what  thou  art  supported — all  wUI  offer  him 
tribute  in  that  highest  world.  19.  As,  o  Prana,  all  these  creatures 
offer  thee  tribute,  so  shaU  they  offer  tribute  ia  that  highest  world  to 
him  who  hears  thee  with  willing  ears.'  " 

(10)  EohUa. 

Eohita,  probably  a  form  of  the  Fire  and  of  the  Sun  (though  he  is 
also  distinguished,  in  the  hymn  I  am  about  to  quote,  from  both  these 
gods),  is  another  deity  who  is  highly  celebrated  in  the  Atharva-veda, 
where  one  hymn  (xiii.  1)  and  parts  of  others  are  appropriated  to  his 
honour.  The  following  are  some  of  the  verses  in  which  his  power  is 
described,  xiii.  1,  6: — 

6.  Rohito  dyava-prithivi  jajana  tatra  tantum  Parameshthl  tatana  \ 
tatra  iiiriye  Ajah  Ekapado  adrimhad  dyava-prithivt  hahna  \  7.  RoJdto 
dydvd-prithim,  adrimhat  tena  svah  stahhitam  tena  nahah  \  tenantariksham 
vimita  rajamsi  tena  devah  amritatvam  avindan  \  13.  Rohito  yajnasya 
jmitd  mukham  cha  RoMtdya  vdehd  irotrena  manasd  juhomi  \  Rohitam 
devdh  yanti  sumanasyamdndh  |  .  .  .  .  14.  Rohito  yafnam  vyadadhdd 
Fisvakarmane  tasmdt  tejdmsi  upa  md  imdny  aguh  |  .  .  .  .  25.  Yo  Rohito 
vrishabhas  tigmairingah  pari  Agnim  pmri  Suryam  hdbhuva  \  yo  vishta- 
bhndti  prithivim  divam  cha  fasmdd  devdh  adhi  srishtih  srijante  |  26. 
Rohito  divam  aruhad  mahatah  pari  arnavdt  \  sarvdh  rwroha  Rohito 
ruhah  \  37.  RoMte  dydvd-prithivl  adhi  irite  vasujiti  gojiti  |  .  .  .  .  55. 
Sa  yajnah  prathamo  hhuto  hhavyo  ajdyata  \  tasmdd  ha  jqjne  idam  sarvam 
yat  kincha  idam  vir achate  Rohitena  rishind  "hhritam  \ 

"  Eohita  produced  heaven  and  earth :  there  Parameshthin  stretched 


396  UCHHISHTA. 

the  cord.  There  Aja  Ekapada  -was  sustained.  He  established  heaven 
and  earth  by  his  force.  7.  Eohita  established  heaven  and  earth ;  by 
him  the  sky  was  supported,  by  him  the  heaven.  By  him  the  atmo- 
sphere, by  him  the  regions  were  meted  out.  Through  him  the  gods 
obtained  immortality.  13.  Eohita  is  the  generator,  and  the  mouth  of 
sacriflce.  To  Eohita  I  offer  my  oblation  with  voice,  ear,  and  mind. 
To  Eohita  the  gods  resort  with  gladness  ....  14.  Eohita  offered  a 

sacrifice  to  Vi^vakarman.     Prom  it  these  fires  have  reached  me 

25.  The  gods  frame  creations  out  of  that  Eohita  who  is  a  sharp- 
horned  buU,  who  surpasses  Agni  and  Surya,  who  props  up  the  earth 
and  the  sky.  26.  Eohita  ascended  the  sky  from  the  great  ocean ;  he 
ascended  aU  ascents.''^  37.  In  Eohita,  who  is  the  conqueror  of  wealth 
and  cows  ....  the  heaven  and  earth  are  sustained  ....  55.  He  first 
became  the  sacrifice,  both  past  and  future.  From  him  sprang  aU.  this 
whatever  there  is  which  shines,  developed  by  Eohita,  the  rishi." 

In  the  second  hymn  of  the  same  book,  in  which  the  sun  is  celebrated, 
Eohita  is  also  named  in  the  following  verses : — 

39.  Mohitah  halo  abhavad  Eohito  'gre  Prajdpatih  |  Rohito  y(ynanam 
mukham  Mohitah  svar  dhharat  \  40.  Rohito  loko  abhavad  Rohito  'ti/atapad 
divam  |  Rohito  ra^mihhir  hhumim  samudram  anu  sam,  oharat  \  41. 
Sarvdh  diiah  samacharad  Rohito  'dhipatir  divah  |  divam  samudram  ad 
hhumim  sarvam  hhutam  vi  rahshati  \ 

"  39.  Eohita  became  Time  ;  Eohita  formerly  became  Prajapati. 
Eohita  is  the  mouth  of  sacrifices.  Eohita  produced  the  sky.  40. 
Eohita  became  the  world  ;  Eohita  shone  beyond  the  sky  ;  Eohita 
traversed  the  earth  and  ocean  with  his  rays.  41.  Eohita  traversed  aU 
the  regions.  Eohita  is  the  ruler  of  the  sky.  He  preserves  heaven, 
ocean,  and  earth — whatever  exists." 

And  yet  the  gods  are  said  to  have  generated  Eohita  (A.V.  xiii. 
3,  23  :  yad  Rohitam  cy'anayanta  dev&K). 

(11)  Ubhhishta. 

In  the  hymn  which  follows  divine  power  is  ascribed  to  the  remains 
of  the  sacrifice  (Uchhishta) : 

A.V.  xi.  7,  1 :    Uchhishte  nama  rupam  cha  uchhishte  lokah  ahitah  \ 

0*1  Here,  as  well  as  in  verses  8  and  9,  there  is  a  play  on  the  connection  of  Eohita 
with  the  root,  ruh,  to  "  ascend,"  or  "  grow," 


UCHUISHTA.  897 

uchMshte  Indrak  cha  AgnU  cha  vUvam  antah  samaMtam  \  2.  Uchhishte 
dyavd-prithivi  visvam  lhuta&  samaMtam  |  apah  samudrah  Uchhishte 
ehandramah  vatah  ahitah  |  3.  8ann  Uchhishte  asams  clwbhau  mrityKr 
vaj'ah  PrajCipatih  |  .  .  .  .  4.  .  .  .  Brahma  visvasrijo  daia  |  nahhim  iva 
sarvatai  chalcram  Uchhishfe  devatah  sritah  \  ....  14.  Nava  Ihumih 
samudrah  Uehhishte  'dhi  kritah  divah  \  a  suryo  Ihati  Uchhishte  ahoratre 
api  tan  mayi  \  15.  Upahavyam  Vishuvantam  ye  cha  yajnah  guha  hitah  \ 
libhartti  hhartd  visvasya  Uchhishto  janituh  pita  \  16.  Pita  janitur 
Uchhishto  asoh  pautrah  pitdmahah  \  sa  Icshiyati  visvasya  isdno  vriskd 
hhumyam  atighnyah  \  17.  Ritam  satyam  tapo  rashtrarh  iramo  dharmaS 
cha  karma  cha  |  hhutdm  bhavishyad  Uchhishte  vlryam  lakshmir  lalam 
hale  I  ...  20.  Ardhamasai  cha  masdsoha  drtavdh  ritubhih  saha  | 
Uchhishte  ghosJianir  dpah  stanayitnuh  irutir  mahl  |  iarhardh  sihatah 
asmdnah  oshadhayo  vlrudhas  trim,  |  21.  Ahhrdni  vidyuto  varsham 
Uchhishte  samsritd  iritd  |  .  .  .  .  23.  Tach  cha  prdnati  prdnena  yaeh  cha 
pasyati  ehahhushd  |  Uehhishtdj  jajnire  sarve  divi  devdh  diviiritah  \  24. 
Richah  sdmani  chhanddmsi  purdnam  yajushd  saha  \  Uehhishtdj — |  25. 
Prdndpdnau  chakshuh  srotram  ahshitis  cha  kshitis  cha  ya  |   Uehhishtdj — | 

26.  Ananduh  moddh  pramudo  alhinioda-mudas  cha  ye  \  Uehhishtdj — | 

27.  Bevdh  pitaro  manushydh  gandharvdprarasas  cha  ye  |  Uehhishtdj  | 
"In  the  Uchhishta  (remains  of  the  sacrifice)  are  contained  name, 

form,^'^  the  world,  Indra  and  Agni,  the  universe,  (2)  heaven  and  earth, 
all  that  exists,  the  waters,  the  sea,  the  moon,  and  the  wind.  3.  In 
the  Uchhishta  are  both  the  existent  and  the  non-existent  {san,  asami 
cha,  masculine),  death,  food  (or  strength),  Prajapati  ....  4.  Brahma, 
the  ten  creators  of  all  things,'*'  the  gods,  are  fixed  on  all  sides  to  the 
TJchhishta  as  [the  spokes]  of  a  wheel  to  the  nave."  So,  too,  the  Eik, 
Saman,  Tajus,  the  hymns,  the  difierent  sorts  of  sacrifices,  and  parts  of 
the  ceremonial,  etc.,  are  comprehended  in  it  (verses  5-13).  "  14. 
Nine  earths,  oceans,  skies,  are  contained  in  the  ITchhishta.  The  sun 
shines  in  the  Uchhishta,  and  in  me  the  Uchhishta  are  day  and  night. 
15.  The  Uchhishta  {masculine),  the  sustainer  of  the  universe,  the 
father  of  the  generator,  upholds  the  Upahavya,   the   Vishiivat,  and 

58'  See  verse  1 2  of  the  hymn  to  Purusha,  A.V.  x.  2,  above. 

683  ^re  these  the  ten  Maharshis  mentioned  hy  Manu,  i.  34  f .  ?  In  A  V.  xi.  1,  1,  3, 
mention  is  made  of  the  seven  Eishis,  the  makers  of  all  things  [bhuta-kritah).  See 
also  A.V.  xii.  1,  39  ;  and  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  37  and  41,  notes. 


398  ANtTMATI. 

the  sacrifices  which  are  secretly  presented.  16.  The  TJchhishta,  the 
father  of  the  generator,  the  grandson  of  spirit  {asu),  the  primeval 
parent,  the  lord  of  the  universe,  the  bull,  dwells  triumphant  (?)  on  the 
earth.  17.  Ceremonial,  truth,  rigorous  abstraction,  dominion,  effort, 
righteousness  and  works,  past,  future,  strength,  prosperity,  force, 
reside  in  the  TJchhishta,  which  is  force  (compare  x.  7,  1,  above). 
20.  In  the  TJchhishta  are  embraced  the  resounding  waters,  thunder 
the  great  sruti,  pebbles,  sand,  stones,  plants,  grass,  (21)  clouds,  light- 
nings, rain.  23.  From  the  TJchhishta  sprang  whatever  breathes  and 
sees,  with  all  the  celestial  gods,  (24)  the  Rich  and  Saman  verses, 
metres,  Puranas,  and  Taj  us,  two  of  the  vital  airs  {pram  and  apana), 
the  eye,  the  ear,  imperishableness,  perishableness,  (26)  pleasures,  en- 
joyments, (27)  the  Fathers,  men,  Gandharvas,  and  Apsarases."  (Com- 
pare A.  V.  xi.  3,  21.) 

(12)  Saerijieial  Implements,  etc.,  etc. 

Similar  divine  powers  are  ascribed  to  different  sacrificial  ladles  in 
A.V.  xviii.  4,  5  :  "  The  Juhu  has  established  the  sky,  the  CTpabhrit 
the  atmosphere,  and  the  Dhruva  the  stable  earth "  (Juhur  dadhara 
dyam  upalhrid  antariksham  dhruva  dadhara  prithivim  pratishtham).  In 
E.V.  vi.  51,  8,  it  is  said  of  namas,  "  adoration,"  that  it  has  supported 
the  earth  and  the  sky,  and  rules  the  gods  "  {namo  dadhara  prithivim 
uta  dyam  \  namo  develhyo  namah  tie  esham).  See  also  A.V.  iv.  35, 
3-6,  where  the  odana  oblation  is  said  to  support  heaven  and  earth, 
etc. ;  A.V.  xix.  32,  9,  where  a  similar  power  is  ascribed  to  the  sacri- 
ficial grass;  and  A.V-  x.  10,  4,  26,  30,  34,  where  wonderful  attributes 
are  predicated  of  the  Va^a  (cow). 

(13)  Anumati. 

In  a  hymn  to  Anumati  (according  to  Professor  Roth  the  goddess  of 
good  will,  as  well  as  of  procreation),  A.V.  vii.  20,  she  is  thus  identi- 
fied with  all  things  (verse  6):  "Anumati  was  all  this  [universe], 
whatever  stands  or  walks,  and  everything  that  moves.  May  we,  o 
goddess,  enjoy  thy  benevolence ;  for  thou,  Anumati,  dost  favour  us  " 
(mumatih  sarvam  idam  lahhuva  yat  tishthati  charati  yad  u  cha  visvam 
ejati  I  tasyas  te  devi  sumatau  syama  Anumate  anu  hi  mamsase  nah). 


THE  BEAHMACHARIN.  399 

{U)  The  Ox,  or  Kettle. 

In  A.Y.  iv.  11,  1,  a  divine  power  is  ascribed  to  the  "  Ox,"  which, 
however,  Professor  Aufrecht  thinks  can  only  be  regarded  as  a  meta- 
phorical ox,  as  it  has  an  udder  (verse  4),  and  gives  milk ;  and  he 
supposes  a  kettle  with  four  legs,  the  Gharma,  to  be  intended.  As  that 
vessel  was  used  for  boiling  milk  and  other  materials  for  sacrificial 
purposes,  the  allusions  in  this  hymn  to  milk  become  intelligible ;  and 
possibly  the  four-legged  kettle  may,  by  its  form,  have  suggested  the 
figure  of  an  ox. 

1 .  Anadvan  dadhara  prithwim  uta  dyam  anadvan  dadhara  uru  antwr- 
ilcaham  \  anadvan  dadhara  pradUah  shad  wvir  anadvan  visvam  hhuva- 
nam  a  vivesa  \  2.  Anadvan  Indro  sa  pasubhyo  vi  clmshte  tray  an  salcro  vi 
mimite  adhvanah  |  ihutam  Ihavishyad  bhuvand  duhdnah  sarvd  devanafn 
charati  vratdni  |  3.  Indro  jdto  manushyeshu  antar  gharmas  taptai 
charati  io^uchdnah  |  ....  5.  Yasya  neie  yajnapatir  na  yajno  na  asya 
ddtd  ise  na  pratigrahlta  |  yo  visvajid  visvabhrid  visvalcarmd  gharmam  no 
Iruta  hatamas  chatushpdt  \ 

"  The  ox  has  established  the  earth  and  the  sky ;  the  ox  has  esta- 
blished the  broad  atmosphere ;  the  ox  has  established  the  six  vast 
regions ;  the  ox  has  pervaded  the  entire  universe.  2.  The  ox  is  Indra. 
He  watches  over  the  beasts.  As  S'akra  (or  mighty)  he  measures  the 
threefold  paths.  Milking  out  the  worlds,  whatever  has  been  or  shall 
be,  he  performs  all  the  functions  of  the  gods.  3.  Being  born  as  Indra 
among  men,  the  kindled  and  glowing  kettle  works  ....  5.  That  which 
neither  the  lord  of  the  sacrifice  nor  the  sacrifice  rules,  which  neither  the 
giver  nor  the  receiver  rules,  which  is  all-conquering,  all-supporting, 
and  all-working, — declare  to  us  the  kettle,  what  quadruped  it  is." 

(15)  TTie  Brahmachdrin. 

The  hymn  to  be  next  quoted  ascribes  very  astonishing  powers  to  the 
Brahmacharin,  or  religious  student.  Some  parts  of  it  are  obscure,  hut 
the  translation  I  give,  though  imperfect,  will  convey  some  idea  of  the 
contents : — 

A.V.  xi.  5,  1 :  Brahmaehdri  ishnami  charati  rodasi  uhhe  tasmin  devdh 
sammanaso  Ihavanti  \  sa  dadhara  prithivlm  divam  oha  sa  dchdryaffi 
tapasd  pipartti  \   2.  Brahmachdrinam  pitaro  devajandh  prithag  devdh 


400  THE  BEAHMACHAEIN. 

anusamyanti  sarve  |  gandharv&h  enam  anvayan  trayastrimiat  trUatah 
shafsahasrdh  \  sarvan  sa  devdn  tapasa  piparti  |  3.  Aekaryah  wpanaya- 
mano  hrahmaeharimm,  krinute  gwrhhe  antah  \  tarn  rdtris  tisrah  udare 
bihharti  tamjdtam  drashtum  dbhisamyanti  devah  \  4.  lyam  samit  pritlml 
dyaur  dvittya  utantariksham  samidha  prinati  \  hrahmachdrl  samidhd 
mekhalaya  sramena  lolcdihs  tapasd  piparii  \  5.  Purvo  jdto  Brahmano 
hrahmachdrl  gharmam  vasdnas  tapasodatishthat  \  tasmdj  jdtam  hrdh- 
manam  Brahma  jyeshtham  dev'di  cha  sarve  amritena  sdlcam  \  6.  Brah- 
machdri  eli  samidhd  samiddhah  Icdrshnam  vasdno  dilcshito  dirghasmairuh  \ 
sa  sadyah  eti  purvasmdd  uttaram  samudram  lokdn  sangribhya  muhur 
dcharikrat  \  7.  Brahmaehdri  janayan  hrahma  apo  loham  Prajdpatim 
Parameshthinam  Virdjam  \  garlho  bhutvd  amritasya  yondv  Indro  ha 
bhutvd  asurdms  iatarda  \  8.  Aohdryas  tataksha  nabhasi  uhhe  ime  urvt 
gambhire  prithivim  divam  cha  ]  te  rakshati  tapasd  brahmaehdri  tasmin 
devdh  sammanaso  bhavanti  \  9.  Imam  bhumim  prithivim  brahmaehdri 
bhiksham  d  jdbhdra  prathamo  divam  cha  \  te  kritvd  samidhdv  update  iayor 
drpita  hhiivandni  visvd  \  10.  Arvdg  any  ah  paro  anyo  divasprishthdd 
guhd  nidhl  nihitau  brdhmanasya  \  tau  rakshati  tapasd  hrahmachdrl  tat 
kevalam  krinute  hrahma  vidvdn  |  16.  Aohdryo  brahmaehdri  hrahmachdrl 
Prajdpatih  |  Prajdpatir  vi  rujati  virdd  Indro  'hhavad  vail  |  17.  Brah- 
maeharyena  tapasd  rdjd  rdshtram  vi  rakshati  |  dchdryo  brahmacharyena 
brahmachdrinam  ichhate  \  18.  Brahmacharyena  kanyd  yuvanam  vindate 
patim  1  anadoan  hramaeharyena  asvo  ghdsam  jiglshati  \  19.  Brahmacha- 
ryena tapasd  devdh  mrityum  apdghnata  \  Indro  ha  brahmacharyena  deve- 
bhyah  svar  uhharat  \  20.  Oshadhayo  bhutabhavyam  ahordtre  vanaspatih  \ 
samvatsarah  saha  ritubhis  te  jdtdh  brahmachdrinah  \  21.  Pdrthivdh 
divydh  paiavah  dranydh  grdmyds  cha  ye  \  apakshdh  pakshinas  cha  ye  te 
jdtah  brahmachdrinah  \  22.  Prithak  sarve  prdjdpatyah  prunun  dtmasu 
bibhrati  \  tun  sarvdn  hrahma  rakshati  hrahtnachdrini  Obhritam  ....  26. 
Tdni  kalpayad  hrahmachdrl  salilasya  prishtJie  tapo  'tishthat  tapyamdnah 
samudre  \ 

"The  Brahmacharin  works,  quickening  both  worlds.  The  gods  are 
joyful  in  him.  He  has  established  the  earth  and  the  sky.  He  satis- 
fies his  acharya  (religious  teacher)  by  tapas.  2.  The  Fathers,  the 
heaverily  hosts,  all  the  gods  separately,  follow  after  him,  with  the  6333 
Gandharvas.  He  satisfies  all  the  gods  by  tapas.  3.  The  acharya,  adopt- 
ing him  as  a  disciple,  makes  him  a  Brahmacharin  evea  in  the  womb, 


THE  BRAHMACHAEIN.  401 

and  supports  him  in  the  helly  for  three  nights.  "When  he  is  bom  the 
gods  assemble  to  see  him.  4.  This  piece  of  fuel  is  the  earth  (compare 
verse  9),  the  second  is  the  sky,  and  he  satisfies  the  air  with  fuel.^^ 
The  brahmacharin  satisfies  the  worlds  with  fuel,  with  a  girdle,  with 
exertion,  with  tapas.  5.  Born  before  Brahma,  the  Brahmacharin  arose 
through  tapas,  clothed  with  heat.  From  him  was  produced  divine 
knowledge  (brahmana),  the  highest  Brahma,*'*  and  aE  the  gods, 
together  with  immortality.  6.  The  Brahmacharin  advances,  lighted 
up  by  fuel,  clothed  in  a  black  antelope's  skin,  consecrated,  long-bearded. 
He  moves  straightway  from  the  eastern  to  the  northern  ocean,  com- 
pressing the  worlds,  and  again  expanding  them.  7.  The  Brahmacharin, 
generating  divine  science,  the  waters,  the  world,  Prajapati,  Paramesh- 
thin,  Yiraj,  having  become  an  embryo  in  the  womb  of  immortality, 
having  become  Indra,  crushed  the  Asuras.  8.  The  Aeharya  has  con- 
structed both  these  spheres,  broad  and  deep,  the  earth  and  the  sky 
The  Brahmacharin  preserves  them  by  tapas.  In  him  the  gods  are 
joyful.  9.  It  was  the  Brahmacharin  who  first  produced  this  broad 
earth  and  the  sky  as  an  alms.  Making  them  two  pieces  of  fuel  (com- 
pare verse  4),  he  worships.  In  them  all  creatures  are  contained.  10. 
The  two  receptacles  of  divine  knowledge  are  secretly  deposited,  the  one 
on  this  side,  the  other  beyond  the  surface  of  the  sky.  The  Brahma- 
charin guards  them  by  tapas.  Wise,  he  appropriates  that  divine 
knowledge  as  his  exclusive  portion  ....  16.  The  Brahmacharin  is  the 
Aeharya,  the  Brahmacharin  is  Prajapati ;  Prajapati  shines  (w  rajati) ; 
the  shining  (Viraj)  became  Indra,  the  powerful.  17.  Through  self- 
restraint  and  tapas  a  king  protects  his  dominions.  Through  self- 
restraint  an  Aeharya  seeks  after  a  Brahmacharin.  18.  By  self-restraint 
a  damsel  obtains  a  young  man  as  her  husband.  By  self-restraint  an 
ox  and  a  horse  seek  to  gain  fodder,  19.  By  self-restraint  and  tapas 
the  gods  destroyed  death.    By  self-restraint  Indra  acquired  heaven 

084  See  AsValayana's  Grihya  Sutras,  ed.  Stenzler,  pp.  12  ff.,  where  the  initiation  of 
the  Brahmacharin,  or  religious  student,  is  described.  Part  of  the  ceremony  is  that  he 
throws  fuel  {samidh)  on  the  fire,  which  he  invokes  with  texte.  This  ritual  is  pro- 
hably  alluded  to  in  the  hymn  before  us.  The  Brahmacharin  is  also  mentioned  in 
E,V.  X.  109,  6,  where  he  said  to  be  one  member  of  the  gods  {sa  devanam  bhavati 
elcam  angam). 

595  The  words  brahma  jyeahtham,  employed  in  A.V.  x.  7,  32  ff.,  and  x.  8, 1,  appear 
to  designate  a  personal  being  (see  above).    The  same  may  be  the  case  here. 

26 


402  KiMA. 

from  [or  for]  the  gods.  20.  Plants,  whatever  has  been,  whatever  shall 
be,  day  and  night,  trees,  the  year,  with  the  seasons,  have  been  pro- 
duced from  the  Brahmacharin.  21.  Terrestrial  and  celestial  beings, 
beasts,  both  wild  and  tame,  creatures  without  wings  and  winged,  have 
been  produced  from  the  Brahmacharin.  22.  All  creatures  which  have 
sprung  from  Prajapatl  have  breath  separately  in  themselves ;  all  of 
these  are  preserved  by  divine  knowledge  {Irahma),  which  is  produced 
in  the  Brahmacharin  ....  26.  These  things  the  Brahmacharin  formed ; 
on  the  surface  of  the  water  he  stood  performing  tapas°*°  in  the  sea." 

The  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  10,  11,  3,  tells  a  story  illustrative  of  the  great 
virtue  ascribed  to  brahmacharyya,  or  religious  self-restraint : — 

Bharackajo  ha  tribhir  'aywrbhir  Irahmaeharyam  uvdsa  \  tarn  hajlrnim 
sthaviram  sayanam  Indrah  wpmragya  imaoha  "  Bharackaja  yat  fe 
ehaturtham  ayur  dadydm  Mm  etena  hwryah"  iti  \  "hrahmacharyam 
eva  enena  chareyam "  iti  ha  uvdcha  |  tarn  ha  girirupan  mijnatan  iva 
dariayanchahara  \  tesham  ha  ekaikasmad  mushtim  adade  |  sa  ha  uvaeha 
"  £haradvaja"  ity  amantrya  "vedah  vai  ete  \  anantah  vai  veddh  \  etad 
vai  etais  trilhir  aywrbhir  anvavochathdlj,  \  atha  te  itarad  ananvJctam  eva  \ 
ehi  imam  viddhi  |  ayam  vai  sarvavidyd  "  iti  | 

"Bharadvaja  practised  brahmacharyya  during  three  lives.  Indra, 
approaching  him  when  he  was  lying  decayed  and  old,  said  :  '  Bharad- 
vaja, if  I  give  thee  a  fourth  life,  what  wilt  thou  do  with  it  ? ' 
He  answered :  '  I  will  use  it  only  to  practise  brahmacharyya.'  He 
showed  him  three  objects,  as  it  were  unknown,  in  the  shape  of  moun- 
tains. From  each  of  these  he  took  a  handful.  He  said,  addressing 
him  :  'Bharadvaja,  these  are  the  Vedas;  the  Vedas  are  infinite.  This 
is  what  thou  hast  recited  during  these  three  lives.  But  other  things 
have  remained  undeclared  by  thee.  Now  learn  this  (Agni  Savitra). 
This  is  universal  knowledge.'  " 

(16)  S'dma. 

"We  have  already  seen  above,  that  in  E.V.  x.  129,  4,  desire  is  said 
to  have  been  the  first  movement  that  arose  in  the  One  after  it  had 
come  into  life  through  the  power  of  fervour  or  abstraction.  This 
Kama,  or  desire,  not  of  sexual  enjoyment,  but  of  good  in  general,  is 
celebrated  in  the  following  curious  hymn  (A.V.  ix.  2)  as  a  great  power 

«86  Compare  A.V.  x.  7,  38,  quoted  above. 


KAMA.  403 

superior  to  all  tie  gods  ;  and  is  supplicated  for  deliverance  from 
enemies.  Desire,  as  the  first  step  towards  its  own  fulfilment,  must  be 
considered  as  here  identified  with  successful  desire,  or  with  some 
deity  regarded  as  the  inspirer  and  accomplisher  of  the  wishes  of  his 
votaries : — °" 

1.  Sapatna-hanam  rishahham  ghritena  Kdmam  ii/cshdmi  hcmisha 
ajyena  \  niehaih  sapatnan  mama  padaya  tvam  ahhishtuto  mahatd  vlr- 
yena  |  2.  Yad  me  manaso  na  priyam  na  chakshuaho  yan  me  habhasti^' 
nabhinandati  \  tad  dushshvapynam  pratimunchami  sapatne  Kamam  stutva 
M(?  akam  bhideyam  |  3.  DushshapnyaM  Kama  duritam  cha  Kama  apra- 

""  In  A.V.  iii.  29,  7,  some  light  is  thrown  upon  the  process  by  which  Kama 
came  to  be  regarded  as  a  deity.  We  there  read :  "  Who  hath  given  this,  and  to 
whom  ?  Kama  has  given  it  to  Kama  {i.e.  the  inspirer,  or  fulfiller,  of  desire,  has 
given  it  to  desire).  Kama  is  the  giver  {i.e.  the  inspirer,  or  Mfiller,  of  desire) ; 
Kama  is  the  receiver.'  Kama  has  entered  into  the  ocean.  Through  Kama  I  receive 
thee,  Kama,  this  is  thine  "  {Jcah  idam  leasmai  adat  kamaJi  TcamSya  adat  \  kamo  data 
Jcamah  pratigrctKita  kamah  samudram  a  vivesa  \  kamena  tva  praiigrihnami  kama  etat 
te).  This  verse  is,  I  find,  quoted  by  Mr.  Colebrooke,  Mis.  Ess.  i.  210,  as  a  text 
forming  part  of  the  Indian  marriage  ritual.  See  also  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  2,  6,  5f.  The 
allusion  here  made  to  Kama  entering  the  ocean  recalls  the  fact  that  Agni  is  often  said 
to  he  produced  from  or  exist  in  the  waters  (R.V.  x.  2,  7 ;  x.  51,  3 ;  x.  91,  6 ;  A.V. 
i.  33,  1 ;  iii.  21,  1).  And  in  A.V.  iii.  21,  4,  Kama  is  distinctly  identified  with  Agni : 
"  The  god  (Agni),  who  is  omnivorous,  whom  they  call  Kama,  whom  they  call  the 
giver  and  the  receiver,  who  is  wise,  strong,  pre-eminent,  unconquerable;  —  to  these 
Agnis  let  this  oblation  be  offered"  {j/o  devo  vismd  yam.  «  Kamam  ahur  yam  dataram 
pratigrihnaniam,  ahuh  \  yo  dhlrah  iahrah  paribhur  adabhyas  tebhyo  agnibhyo  hutam 
asiv  etat).  See  also  S.V.  ii.  1060  (=A.V.  vi.  36,  3;  Vaj.  Sanh.  xU.  117)  agnih 
priyeshu  dhamasu  kamo  bhutasya  bhavyasya  \  samrad  eko  virajati  \  "  Agni,  Kama, 
the  one  monarch  of  things  past  and  future,  shines  in  his  dear  abodes."  See  also  Taitt. 
Sanh.  ii.  2,  3,  1.  Agnaye  Kamaya  "To  Agni  Kama,  etc."  See  also  the  passages 
cited  by  Professor  Weber,  Ind.  Stud.  v.  225,  f.  In  some  parts  of  the  hymn  before 
us,  (A.V.  ix.  2)  the  same  identification  of  Kama  with  Agni  appears  to  be  made. 
Thus  in  v.  1,  Kama,  and  in  v.  8,  Kama  and  other  gods,  are  said  to  be  worshipped 
with  butter,  an  oblation  especially  appropriate  to  Agni.  In  vv.  4  and  9,  Agni  is 
called  upon  to  burn  the  dwellings  of  the  worshipper's  enemies,  whom  Kama  had  jiist 
been  besought  to  destroy.  Again,  in  v.  25,  the  auspicious  bodies,  or  manifestations 
{tarmah)  of  Kama  are  referred  to  just  as  those  of  Agni  are  in  other  hymns  (as  R.V. 
i.  16,  4 :  A.V.  xviii.  4,  10 ;  comp.  Vaj.  S.  xvi.  2).  On  the  other  hand,  however, 
Agni  is  specified  separately  from  Kama  in  v.  6 ;  and  in  v.  24,  Kama  is  represented  as 
superior  to  Agni,  as  well  as  to  Vata,  Surya,  and  Chandramas  (the  moon).  In  v.  9, 
Indra  and  Agni  are  mentioned  along  with  Kama,  though  the  verb  with  which  these 
gods  are  connected  is  in  the  dual.  But  although  in  these  verses  Agni  and  Kama  are 
distinguished  from  each  other,  Kama  may  be  there  looked  upon  as  a  superior  form  of 
the  other  deity. 

sss  Compare  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Both's  Lexicon,  s.v.  bhas. 


404  KAMA. 

jastam  asvagatam  cwartim  \  ugrah  Uanah  prati  muneha  taamin  yo  asma- 
Ihyam  amhurand  ehikitsdt  \  4.  NuAasva  Kama  prantidaava  Kama 
avarttim  yantu  mama  ye  sapatnah  \  teshdm  nuttanam  adhamd  tamdmsi 
Agne  vdstilni  nirdaha  tvam  \  5.  8a  ie  Kama  duhitd  dJienwr  uchyate  yam 
dhur  Vdcham  Ica/vayo  Virdjam  \  tayd  sapatndn  pari  vrindhi  ye  mama 
pari  endn  prdnah  paiavo  jivanam  vrinaktu  |  .  .  .  .  7.  Viive  devdh  mama 
natha/m  Ihavantu  sarve  devdh  havam  d  yantu  me  imam  |  8.  Idam  dj'yad 
ghrita/BOJ jushdndh  Kdma-jyeshthdh  iha  mddayadJwam  \  hrinvanfo  mahyam 
asapatnam  eva  \  9.  Indrdgni  Kama  sa/raihafh  Id  hhutvd  nichaih  sapatndn 
mama  padaydthah  \  teshdm  pannandm  adhamd  tamdmsi  Agne  vdstuni  anu 
nirdaha  tvam  \  10.  Jahi  tvam  Kama  mama  ye  sapafndh  andhd  tamdmsi  ava 
pddayaindn  \  nirindriydh  arasdh  santu  sarve  md  tejwishuh  katamach  chand- 
hah  I  11.  Avadhit  Kdmo  mama  ye  sapatndh  urwm  loham  aJcarad  mahyam 
edhatum  |  mahyam  namantdm pradisas  chaiasro  mahyam  shad  urvir  ghritam 
d  vahantu  \  12.  Te  adhardnchah  pra  plavantdm  chAinnd  nauriva  handha- 
ndt  I  na  sdyaka-pranuttdndm  punar  asti  nivartanam  |  ....  16.  Yat  te 
Kdma  iarma  trivarutham  udbhu  Irahma  varma  vitatam  anativyddhyam 
hritam  \  tena  sapatndn — |  17.  Yena  devdh  asurdn  prdnudanta  yenendro 
dasyun  adhamam  tamo  nindya  |  tena  tvam  Kdma  mama  ye  sapatnds  tdn 
asmdl  lokdt  pra  nudasva  duram  \  19.  Kdmo  j'aj'ne  prathamo  nainain 
devdh  dpuh  pitaro  na  martydh  |  tatas  tvam  asi  jydydn  vihalm  mahams 
tasmai  te  Kdma  namah  it  krinomi  \  20.  Ydvati  dydvd-prithivl  varimnd 
yavad  dpah  sishyadur  ydvad  Agnih  \  tatah — |  21.  Ydvattr  diiah  pra- 
diio  vishuchir  ydvatir  dsdh  alhichakshandh  divah  \  tatah — |  22.  Ydvatir 
hhringdh  jatvah  kururavo  ydvatir  vaghdh  vrikshasarpyo  bahhuvuh  \ 
tatah — I  23.  Jydydn  nimishato  'shi  tishthato  jydydn  samudrdd  asi  Kdma 
Mdnyo — |  24.  JVd  vai  VdtaS  chana  Kdmam  dpnoti  ndgnih  suryo  nota 
chandramdh  \  tatah — |  25.  Yds  te  Sivds  tanvah  Kdma  Ihadrdh  ydlhih 
satyam  hhaoati  yad  vrinishe  \  tdhhis  tvam  asmdn  ahhisamviiasva  anyatra 
pdpir  apa  veiaya  dhiyah  \ 

"1.  With  oblations  of  butter  I  worship  Kama,  °^'  the  mighty  slayer 
of  enemies.  Do  thou,  when  lauded,  beat  down  my  foes  by  thy  great' 
might.    2.  The  sleeplessness  which  is  displeasing  to  my  mind  and  eye, 

S89  In  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  8,  8,  S'raddha,  or  faith,  is  said  to  be  the  mother  of 
Kama  {sraddham  kamasya  rmtaram).  This,  hoTrever,  the  commentator  explains  as 
signifying  merely  that  she  is  the  means  of  obtaining  all  desired  rewards,  since  no 
action  takes  place  unless  men  have  faith  {aa  iyam  ichhS  visvasa-vyatirekena  kaayapi 
vyavaharasya  abhavad  "Kamasya  mataram"  kamyamSnaphaksya  utpadikam). 


KAMA.  405 

which,  harasses  and  does  not  delight  me,  that  sleeplessness  I  let  loose 
npon  my  enemy.  Having  praised  £ama,  may  I  rend  him.  3.  Kama, 
do  thou,  a  fierce  lord,  let  loose  sleeplessness,  misfortune,  childlessness, 
homelessness,  and  want,  upon  him  who  designs  us  evil.  4.  Send  them 
away,  £ama,  drive  them  away ;  may  they  fall  into  misery,  those  who 
are  my  enemies.  When  they  have  heen  hurled  into  the  nethermost 
darkness,  do  thou,  Agni,  burn  up  their  dwellings.  5.  That  daughter 
of  thine,  Kama,  is  named  the  Cow,  which  sages  call  Vach  Viraj.  By 
her  drive  away  my  enemies.  May  breath,  cattle,  life,  forsake  them. 
....  7.  May  all  the  gods  be  my  defence ;  may  all  the  gods  attend 
upon  this  my  invocation.  8.  Te  [gods],  of  whom  Kama  is  the  highest, 
accepting  this  oblation  of  butter,  be  joyful  in  this  place,  granting  me 
deliverance  from  my  enemies.  9.  Indra,  Agni,  and  Kama,  mounted 
on  the  same  chariot,  hurl  ye  down  my  foes ;  when  they  have  fallen 
into  the  nethermost  darkness,  do  thou,  Agni,  burn  up  their  dwellings. 
10.  Kama,  slay  my  enemies ;  cast  them  down  into  thick  (literally, 
blind)  darkness.  Let  them  all  become  destitute  of  power  and  vigour, 
and  not  live  a  single  day.  1 1 .  Kama  has  slain  my  enemies,  has  made 
for  me  wide  room  and  prosperity.  May  the  four  regions  bow  down 
to  me,  and  the  six  worlds  bring  fatness.  12  (=A.V.  iii.  6,  7).  Let 
them  (my  enemies)  float  downwards  like  a  boat  severed  from  its 
moorings.  There  is  no  return  for  those  who  have  been  put  to  flight 
by  our  arrows  ....  16.  "With  that  triple  and  efiectual  protection  of 
thine,  o  Kama,  that  spell  (hrahma),  which  has  been  extended  [in  front 
of  us  as]  armour,  and  made  impenetrable,  do  thou  drive  away,  etc.  (as 
in  V.  5).  17.  Do  thou,  Kama,  drive  my  enemies  far  from  this  world 
by  that  [same  weapon,  or  amulet]  wherewith  the  gods  repelled  the 
Asuras,  and  Indra  hurled  the  Dasyus  into  the  nethermost  darkness.*'" 
(Yerse  18  is  nearly  a  repetition  of  verse  17.)     19.  Kama  was  born  the 

"■so  In  A.V.  viii.  5,  3,  mention  is  made  of  a  jewel  or  amulet,  "  by  wHich  Indra  slew 
Vrittra,  overcame  the  Asuras,  and  conquered  heaven  and  earth,  and  the  four  regions" 
(anenendro  manina  vrittram  ahann  anenasurdn  parabhavayad  mariishT).  And  in 
A.V.  viii.  8,  6  flf.  we  are  told  of  another  instrument  of  offence  belonging  to  Indra,  in 
addition  to  the  thunderbolt,  arrows,  and  hook,  described  in  the  E  V.  (see  above, 
p.  87  f.)  viz.,  a  net.  5.  "  The  air  was  his  net ;  and  the  great  regions  the  rods  for 
extending  the  net.  Enclosing  within  it  the  host  of  the  Dasyus,  S'akra  overwhelmed 
it.  7.  Great  is  the  net  of  thee  who  art  great,  0  heroic  Indra !  .  .  .  .  Within  it 
enclosing  them,  S'akra  slew  a  hundred,  a  thousand,  ten  thousand,  a  hundred  millions 
of  Dasyus,  with  his  army." 


406  KAMA. 

first.  Him  neither  gods,  nor  Fathers,  nor  men,  have  equalled.  Thon 
art  superior  to  these,  and  for  ever  great.  To  thee,  Kama,  I  offer 
reverence.  20.  Wide  as  are  the  heaven  and  earth  in  extent ;  far  as 
the  -waters  have  swept ;  far  as  Agni  [has  hlazed] ; — thou  art  yet 
superior  to  these  (as  in  verse  19).  21.  Great  as  are  the  regions  and 
the  several  intermediate  regions,  the  celestial  tracts,  and  the  vistas  of 
the  sty, — thou  art  yet  superior,  etc.  22.  As  many  bees,  bats,  reptiles, 
vaghas  (?),  and  tree-serpents  as  there  are,  thou  art  yet  superior,  etc. 
23.  Thou  art  superior  to  all  that  ■winks,  or  stands, — superior  to  the 
sea,  0  Kama,  Manyu.  Thou  art  superior,  etc.  24.  Even  Yata  (the 
"Wind)  does  not  vie  -with  Kama,  nor  does  Agni,  nor  Surya,  nor  Chand- 
ramas  (the  Moon).  Thou  art  superior,  etc.  25.  "With  those  auspicious 
and  gracious  forms  of  thine;  o  Kama,  through  which  that  which  thou 
choosest  becomes  real, — ^with  them  do  thou  enter  into  us,  and  send 
malevolent  thoughts  away  somewhere  else." 

A.Y.  xix.  52,  is  another  hymn  addressed  to  the  same  deity. 

It  is  well  known  that  Greek  mythology  connected  Eros,  the  god  of 
love,  with  the  creation  of  the  universe,  somewhat  in  the  same  way  as 
Kama  is  associated  with  it  in  R.Y.  x.  129,  4  (see  above,  p.  357). 
Thus  Plato  says  in  the  Symposium  (sec.  6)  : 

roifr]<;  yap  "EpwTO^  ovt    'eicrXv  ovre  Xiyovrai  'vtt'  6vSevo<;  ovre 
IBiMTOV  ovre  ttoitjtov,  dW  'Ha-loSo^  irpwrov  /lev  X"'°'>  ^c^  yeveuOai, 
"  dvrap  eireiTa 

lyai  evpvaTepvo<;,  iravTcov  eSo?  cLcr<paXe<;  diet, 

'7)S"'Epo<;." 
^rj(Tl   fjiera   to  %ao9  Svo  tovtco  yevetrOai,  yrjv   re   koI  "Epara. 
IlapfievliBrj^  8e  t^v  ykveaiv  Xiyei,  "  irpdyricTTOv  fiev  "Epara  deS)v 
fj/rjTieraTO  iravTav."     'Ho'ioSa)  Be  koX  'AKOVcriXew;  ofioXoyei.     ovro) 
TToXKa'XpOev  o/uiXojeiTai,  6  "Epay;  hi  toi,<s  irpea^vTaTOK  hvai. 

"  Eros  neither  had  any  parents,  nor  is  he  said  by  any  unlearned  man 
or  by  any  poet  to  have  had  any.  But  Hesiod  declares  that  chaos  first 
arose,  and  '  then  the  broad-bosomed  earth,  ever  the  firm  abode  of  all 
things,  and  Eros.'  He  says  that,  after  chaos,  these  two  things  were 
produced,  the  earth  and  Eros.  Parmenides,  too,  speaks  thus  of  the 
creation,  '  He  devised  Eros  the  first  of  all  the  gods.'  And  Acusilaus 
also  agreed  with  Hesiod.    From  so  many  quarters  is  Eros  admitted  to 


KALA,  OE  TIME.  407 

be  one  of  the  oldest  deities."  (See  tte  article  Eros  in  Dr.  Smitt's 
Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Koman  Biograpty  and  Mythology,  and  the 
authorities  there  referred  to.) 

In  another  hymn  of  the  A.V.  (iii.  25),  Kama,  like  the  Eros  of  the 
Greeks,  and  Cupid  of  the  Latins,  is  described  as  the  god  of  sexual  love. 
The  commencement  of  it  is  as  follows  : 

Uitudas  tvd  uttudatu  ma.  dhrithah  iayane  sve  \  ishuh  Kamasya  ya 
Ihima  taya  vidhyami  tvd  hridi  |  2.  Adhiparnam  Kama-salyam  isliuih 
sankalpa-hulmaldm,  \  tarn  susannatam  hritm  Kama  vidhyatu  tvd  hridi  \ 
3.  Yd  plihdnam  ioshayati  Kdmasyeshuh  susannatd  | .  .  .  .  tayd  vidhyami 
tvd  hridi  \ 

"  I.  May  the  disquieter  disquiet  thee.  Do  not  rest  upon  thy  bed. 
With  the  terrible  arrow  of  Kama  I  pierce  thee  in  the  heart.  2.  May 
Kama,  having  well  directed  the  arrow  which  is  winged  with  pain, 
barbed  with  longing,  and  has  desire  for  its  shaft,  pierce  thee  in  the 
heart.  3.  With  the  well-aimed  arrow  of  Kama,  which  dries  up  the 
spleen,  ....  I  pierce  thee  in  the  heart."  '" 

(17)  Kdia,  or  Time. 

In  the  next  two  remarkable  hymns  we  find  an  altogether  new  doc- 
trine, as  Time  is  there  described  as  the  source  and  ruler  of  all  things : — 

A.V.  xix.  54:*'^  1.  Sidlo  aho  vahati  swptara&mih  sahasrdlcsho  ajaro 
Ihuriretdh  \  tarn  d  rohanti  Jcavayo  vipaiehitas  tasya  ehakrd  hhuvandni 
viivd  I  2.  Sapta  chahrd  vahati  Kalah  esha  saptasya  nabhir  amritam  nu 
ahshah  \  m  imd  viivd  hhuvandni  arvdn  Kdlah  sa  lyate  prathamo  nu 
devah  \  3.  JPurnah  humbho  adhi  Kdle  dhitas  tarn  vai  paiyamo  lahudhd 
nu  santam  \  sa  imd  vihd  hhuvandni  pratyan  Kdlam  tarn  dhuh  parame 
vyoman  \  4.  Sa  eva  sam  hhuvandni  dhha/rat  sa  eva  sam  hhuvandni 
paryait  \  pita  sann  ahhavat  putrah  eshdm  tasmdd  vai  ndnyat  pa/ram  asti 
tejah  I  5.  Kalo  'mum  divam  ajanayat  Kdlah  imdh  prithivir  uta  \  Kdlena 
hhutam  hhmyam  eha  ishitam  ha  vi  tiehthate  \  6.  Kdlo  hhumim  asrijata 
Kdle  tapati  suryah  \  Kdle  ha  vihd  hhutdni  Kdle  ehakshur  vi  pasyati  \ 
7.  Kdle  manah  Kdle  prdnah  Kdle  ndma  samdhitam  \  Kdlena  sarvdh 

59'  This  hymn  is  translated  by  Professor  "Weber  in  Ms  Indische  Studien,  t.  224  ff., 
from  whose  version  I  have  derived  assistance. 

692  ^  great  deal  is  said  about  the  potency  of  Kala,  or  Time,  in  the  S'anti-parva  of 
the  Mahabharata,  vv.  8106,  8112,  8126  ff.,  8139-8144,  8758,  9877  f.,  10060. 


408  KALA,  OE  TIME. 

nandanti  agatena  prcy'ah  imdh  \  8.  Zdle  tapah  Kale  jyeshthafh  KaU 
Brahma  samahitam  \  Kalo  ha  sarvasj/esvaro  yah  pita  "sit  Prajapate^  \ 
9.  Teneshitam  tena  jdtarh  tad  u  tasmin  pratishthitam  \  Kalo  ha  Brahma 
bhutva  hihharti  Parameshthinam  \  10-  Kalah  pr<yah  asrijata  Kalo  agre 
Priyapatim  \  Svayambhuh  Kaiyapah  Kdlat  tapah  Kalad  ajdyata  \ 

"1.  Time  carries  [ub]  forward,  a  steed,  with  seven  rays,  a  ttousand 
eyes,  undecaying,  full  of  fecundity.  On  him  intelligent  sages  mount ; 
his"  wheels  are  all  the  worlds.  2.  This  Time  moves  on  seven  wheels ; 
he  has  seven  naves ;  immortality  is  his  axle.  He  is  at  present  all 
these  worlds.  Time  hastens  onward,  the  first  god.  3.  A  fuU  jar  is 
contained  in  Time.  We  behold  him  existing  in  many  forms.  He  is  all 
these  worlds  in  the  future.   They  call  him  Time  in  the  highest  heaven. 

4.  It  is  he  who  drew  forth  the  worlds,  and  encompassed  them.  Being 
the  father,  he  became  their  son.  There  is  no  other  power  superior  to  him. 

5.  Time  generated  the  sky  and  these  earths.  Set  in  motion  by  Time, 
the  past  and  the  future  subsist.  6.  Time  created  the  earth ;  by  Time 
the  sun  burns  ;  through  Time  all  beings  [exist]  ;  through  Time  the  eye 
sees.  7.  Mind,  breath,  name,  are  embraced  in  Time.  All  these  crea- 
tures rejoice  when  Time  arrives.  8.  In  Time  rigorous  abstraction,  in 
Time  the  highest,  in  Time  divine  knowledge,  is  comprehended.  Time 
is  lord  of  all  things,  he  who  was  the  father  of  Prajapati.  9.  That 
[universe]  has  been  set  in  motion  by  him,  produced  by  him,  and  is 
supported  on  him.  Time,  becoming  divine  energy,  supports  Paramesh- 
thin.  10.  Time  produced  creatures  ;  Time  in  the  beginning  [formed] 
Prajapati.  The  seK-born°'^  Ka^yapa  sprang  from  Time,  and  from 
Time  [sprang]  rigorous  abstraction  (tapas)." 

A.V.  xix.  54,  1.  Kalad  apah  samalhavan  Kalad  hrahma  tapo  disah  | 
Kdlenodeti  Suryo  Kale  ni  visate  punalf  \  .2.  Kalena  vdtal^  pavate  Kdlena 


693  The  word  which  1  have  rendered  "  self-bom"  is  svayambhu.  This  term  must 
in  certain  cases  be  rendered  hy  "self-existent,"  as  in  Manu  i.  6-11,  where  it  is 
applied  to  the  undeveloped  primeval  Deijy,  the  creator  of  Brahma.  In  other  places, 
however,  Brahma  himself,  the  derived  creator,  is  called  svayambhu,  as  in  M.  Bh. 
S'antip.  V.  7569,  though  he  had  previously  (in  v.  7630)  been  declared  to  have  been 
bom  in  a  lotus  sprung  from  the  navel  of  Sankarshana,  the  first-bom  offspring 
(v.  7527)  of  Vishnu.  The  same  epithet  is  applied  to  Brahma  in  the  Bhag.  Pur. 
iii.  8,  15.  But  in  fact,  Svayambhu  is  well  known  to  be  one  of  the  synonyms  of 
Brahma,  though  that  god  is  nowhere  represented  as  an  underived,  self-existent  being. 
This  word  must  therefore  be  regarded  as  not  necessarily  meaning  anything  more  than 
one  who  comes  into  existence  in  an  extraordinary  and  supernatural  manner. 


KALA,  OE  TIME.  409 

JPrithivl  mahi  \  Byaw  mahl  Kah  ahila  \  3.  Kale  ha  hhutam  Ihmyarh 
cha  mantro  ajanayat  pwra  \  Kalad  ricliah  samdbhavan  yajuh  Kalad 
ajdyata  \  4.  Kale  yajnam,  samatrayan  devehhyo  Ihagam  akshitam  \  Kale 
gandharvapsarasah  Kale  lohah  pratishthitah  \  5.  Kale  ''yam  angirah 
divo  atharvd  chadM  tuhthatah  \  imam  cha  lokam  paramam  cha  loham 
punydms  cha  loJcan  vidhritis  cha  punyah  \  6.  Sarvan  loMn  abhijitya 
brahmand  Kdlah  sa  tyate  paramo  nu  devah  | 

"1.  From  Time  the  waters  were  produced,  together  with  divine 
knowledge,  tapas,  and  the  regions.  Through  Time  the  sun  rises  and 
again  sets.  2.  Through  Time  the  wind  blows  ;  through  time  the 
earth  is  vast.  The  great  sky  is  embraced  in  Time.  3.  Through  Time 
the  hymn  formerly  produced  both  the  past  and  the  future.  From 
Time  sprang  the  Eik  verses.  The  Taj  us  was  produced  from  Time.  4. 
Through  Time  they  created  the  sacrifice,  an  imperishable  portion  for 
the  gods.  On  Time  the  Gandharvas  and  Apsarases,  on  Time  the 
worlds  are  supported.  5,  6.  Through  Time  this  Angiras  and  Athar- 
van  rule  over  the  sky.  Having  through  divine  knowledge  conquered 
both  this  world,  and  the  highest  world,  and  the  holy  worlds,  and 
the  holy  ordinances,  yea  all  worlds.  Time  moves  onward  as  the 
supreme  god." 

Kohita  is  identified  with  Eala,  A.V.  xiii.  2,  39. 

The  conception  of  Kala  in  these  hymns  is  one  which,  if  taken  in  its 
unmodified  shape,  would  have  been  esteemed  heretical  in  later  times.*'* 
Thus,  among  the  several  forms  of  speculation  which  are  mentioned  at 
the  commencement  of  the  S'vetasvatara  TJpanishad,  for  the  purpose,  no 
doubt,  of  being  condemned  as  erroneous,  is  one  which  regards  Kala,  or 
Time,  as  the  origin  of  all  things.  The  line  in  which  these  different, 
systems  are  mentioned  is  as  follows :  hdlah  svalhdm  niyatir  yadriohhd 
hhutdni  yonih  pwuahah.  It  is  the  verse  referred  to  in  the  following 
note  of  Professor  Wilson,  in  vol.  i.  p.  19  of  his  Vishnu  Purana  (Dr.  Hall's 
ed.)  :  "  The  commentator  on  the  Moksha  Dharma  (a  part  of  the  S'anti- 
parva  of  the  M.  Bh.)  cites  a  passage  from  the  Vedas,  which  he  under- 


M»  The  M.  Bh.,  however,  Anu^asana-parva,  verses  61-56,  makes  Mrityu,  or 
death,  declare  that  all  nature,  all  creatures,  the  world  itself,  all  actions,  cessations 
and  changes,  derive  their  essential  character  from  Time,  while  the  gods  themselves, 
including  Vishnu,  are,  time  after  time,  created  and  destroyed  hy  the  same  power  [scirve 
halena  srijyimte  hriycmte  chapunahpimah). 


410        GENERAL  EEMAEKS  ON  THE  PRECEDING  PASSAGES. 

stands  to  allude  to  tie  different  theories  of  the  cause  of  creation  (then 
follows  the  Hue  just  quoted) ;  time,  inherent  nature,  consequence  of 
acts,  self-viU,  elementary  atoms,  matter  and  spirit,  asserted  severally 
hy  the  astrologers,  the  Buddhists,  the  Mimansakas,  the  logicians,  the 
Santhyas,  and  the  Vedantins."  ''^ 

The  Maitrl  Upanishad  also  celebrates  Eala,  vi.  14  f.,  declaring  that 
the  sun  is  its  source  {suryo  yonih  Mlasya).  "We  find  there  the  follow- 
ing verse :  kalat  sravanti  hhutdm  kalad  vriddhim  prayanti  cha  \  Mle 
chdsiam  niyachhanfi  halo  murtir  amurtiman  \  "  By  Time  creatures 
waste,  by  Time  they  increase ;  in  Time  they  set :  Time  is  a  formless 
form."  The  writer  proceeds  :  Lve  mva  Brahmano  rape  KaM  cha 
Ahalai  cha  \  atha  yah  prag  Adityat  bo  ^halo  'Mlah  \  atha  yah  Aditya- 
dyah  sa  Kalah  saMlah  \  "There  are  two  forms  of  Brahma,  Time  and 
No-time.  That  which  is  before  the  sun  is  No-time,  devoid  of  parts ; 
and  that  which  is  subsequent  to  the  sun  is  Time,  with  parts." 

Manu  (i.  24)  declares  Kala  (Time)  to  have  been  one  of  the  things 
created  by  Brahma.  But  though  not  admitted  as  itself  the  origin  of  aU 
things,  Kala  is,  nevertheless,  recognized  by  the  author  of  the  Vishnu 
Purana  as  one  of  the  forms  of  the  Supreme  Being.  See  pp.  18,  19,  and 
25,  of  Dr.  HaU's  edition  of  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  and  the  note  in 
p.  19,  already  referred  to,  where  Professor  Wilson  says,  "  Time  is  not 
usually  enumerated  in  the  Puranas  as  an  element  of  the  '  first  cause ; ' 
but  the  Padma  Purana  and  the  Bhagavata  agree  with  the  Vishnu  in 
including  it.  It  appears  to  have  been  regarded,  at  an  earlier  date,  as 
an  independent  cause."  See  the  Bhag.  Pur.  iii.  5,  34-37;  iii.  8, 
11  ff. ;  iii.  10,  10-13 ;  iii.  11,  1  ff. ;  iii.  12,  1  ff.  We  thus  find  the 
authors  of  the  Puranas  interweaving  with  their  own  cosmogonies  all 
the  older  elements  of  speculation  which  they  discovered  in  the  Vedas  ; 
and,  by  blending  heretical  materials  with  others  which  were  more 
orthodox,  contriving  to  neutralize  the  heterodoxy  of  the  former. 

(18)  General  remarhs  on  the  preceding  passages. 

A  few  general  observations  are  suggested  by  a  consideration  of  the 
principal  passages  which  have  been  quoted  in  this  section. 

095  "  Kpivos  was  also,"  adds  Prof.  'Wilson,  "  one  of  the  first  generated  agents  in 
creation,  according  to  the  OrpMc  theogony," 


■WHAT  WAS  THE  EARLIEST  FOEM  OF  ARYAN  RELIGION?     411 

I.  The  conceptions  of  the  godhead  expressed  in  these  texts  are  of  a 
wayering  and  undetermined  character.  It  is  clear  that  the  authors  had 
not  attained  to  a  distinct  and  logical  comprehension  of  the  character- 
istics which  they  ascribed  to  the  objects  of  their  adoration.  On  the 
one  hand,  the  attributes  of  infinity,  omnipotence,  omnipresence,  are 
ascribed  to  different  beings,  or  to  the  same  being  under  the  various 
names  of  Purusha,  Skambha,  Brahma,  Hiranyagarbha,  etc.  (E.V.  x. 
90,  1  ff. ;  X.  121,  1  ff.  A.V.  X.  7,  10,  13,  31-33 ;  x.  8,  1).  And  yet 
in  other  places  these  same  qualities  are  represented  as  subject  to  limi- 
tations, and  these  divine  beings  themselves  are  said  to  expand  by  food, 
to  be  prbduoed  from  other  beings  (as  Purusha  from  Yiraj),  to  be  sacri- 
ficed, to  be  produced  from  tapas,  or  to  perform  tapas  (R.V.  x.  90,  2,  4, 
7.  A.V.  X.  2,  12  ff.,  26;  x.  7,  31,  36,  38). 

II.  In  these  passages  divine  power  is  variously  conceived,  sometimes 
as  the  property  of  one  supreme  person,  as  Purusha,  Skambha,  etc.  ; 
while  in  other  places  it  is  attached  (1)  to  some  abstraction,  as  Kama 
(Desire),  Kala  (Time),  or  (2)  to  some  personification  of  energies  re- 
siding in  living  beings,  as  Prana  (Life  or  Breath),  or  (3)  of  the 
materials  (Uchhishta)  or  the  implements  (juhu,  upabhrit,  etc.)  of  sacri- 
fice, or  is  ascribed  (4)  to  the  vehicles  of  adoration,  to  hymns  and 
metres,  such  as  the  Viraj,  which  is  said  (A.V.  viii.  10  1)  to  have  been 
identical  with  the  world,  or  (5)  to  the  guardian  of  sacred  science,  and 
future  minister  of  religious  rites,  the  Brahmacharin.  It  need  occasion 
no  surprise  that  the  young  priest  should  be  regarded  as  invested  with 
such  transcendent  attributes,  when  even  the  sacrifices  which  he  was 
being  trained  to  celebrate,  the  hymns  and  metres  in  which  he  invoked 
the  gods,  and  the  very  sacrificial  vessels  he  handled  were  conceived  to 
possess  a  supernatural  potency. 

We  find  here  a  singular  variety  in  the  elements  of  thought  and  feel- 
ing which  have  concurred  to  give  birth  to  this  crude  congeries  of  ideas, 
in  which  the  real  centre  of  divine  power  is  obscured,  while  a  multitude 
of  inferior  objects  are  magnified  into  unreal  proportions,  and  invested 
with  a  fictitious  sanctity.  But  these  extraordinary  representations  reveal 
to  us  in  the  Indians  of  the  Vedic  age  a  conception  of  the  universe 
which  was  at  once  (a)  mystical  or  sacramental,  (b)  polytheistic,  and  (c) 
pantheistic ;  (a)  everything  connected  with  religious  rites  being  im- 
agined to  have  in  it  a  spiritual  as  weU  as  a  physical  potency ;  (h)  all 


412       PICTET'S  YIEW  OF  THE  EARLIEST  ARYAN  RELIGION. 

parts  of  nature  being  separately  regarded  as  invested  with  divine 
power;  and  yet  (c)  as  constituent  parts  of  one  great  whole. 


(19)  Whether  polytheism  or  monotheism  was  the  earliest  form  of  the 
Aryan  religion :  opinions  of  Messrs.  Pidet,  Pfleiderer,  Scherer, 
Riville,  and  Roth  on  this  subject. 

I  shall  add  somfe  remarks  on  the  relation  of  the  Vedic  polytheism  to 
the  earlier  religion,  which  we  may  suppose  to  have  prevailed  among 
the  primitive  Arj'ans. 

M.  Adolphe  Pictet,  in  his  work  "Les  Origines  Indo-Europ6ennes," 
vol.  ii.,  has  lately  discussed  the  question  whether  that  religion  was 
from  the  first  a  polytheism,  embracing  the  principal  powers  of  nature, 
as  comparative  philology  shows  it  to  have  been  about  the  time  of  the 
separation  of  the  different  branches  of  the  race,  or  whether  it  had  been 
originally  monotheistic. 

He  thinks  that  as  a  polytheism,  such  as  we  find  existing  at  the 
dawn  of  Aryan  history,  could  only  have  been  developed  gradually,  it 
must  have  been  preceded  by  a  more  simple  system  (p.  651).  This 
inference  he  supports  by  the  remark  that  the  names  of  most  of  the  gods 
in  the  Aryan  mythology  correspond  with  those  of  the  great  objects  of 
nature,  designated  by  some  of  their  most  characteristic  attributes; 
But  as  these  natural  objects  have  derived  their  appellations  from  their 
physical  qualities  alone,  they  could  not  originally,  at  the  time  when 
they  received  their  names,  have  been  regarded  as  divinities.  If  nature- 
worship  had  prevailed  among  the  Aryans  from  the  commencement, 
some  trace  of  this  fact  must  have  been  preserved  in  their  language, 
which,  however,  manifests  nothing  but  the  most  complete  reaUsm 
as  regards  the  epithets  applied  to  natural  phenomena.  As  it  thus 
appears  that  the  great  objects  of  nature  could  not  have  been  regarded 
as  divine  at  the  time  when  the  language  was  formed,  the  Aryans  could 
not  originally  have  been  polytheistic.  It  is  not,  however,  to  be 
imagined  that  a  race  so  highly  gifted  should,  even  at  this  early  period, 
have  been  destitute  of  all  religious  sentiments  and  beliefs.  But  if  not 
polytheists,  they  must  have  been  monotheists.  This  conclusion  M. 
Pictet  corroborates  by  referring  to  the  most  ancient  names  of  the  deity, 
such  as  I>eva,  etc.,  which  he  regards  as  in  their  origin  unconnected 


EEMAEKS  ON  M.  PICTET'S  VIEWS.  413 

with  natural  objects  or  phenomena.  This  primitire  monotheism  of  the 
Aryans  he  supposes  to  have  arisen  from  the  necessity  which  they 
instinctively  felt  to  refer  the  production  of  the  world  to  one  first  Cause, 
which  they  would  naturally  place,  not  on  earth,  their  own  familiar 
abode,  but  in  the  mysterious  and  inaccessible  heavens.  This  supreme 
being  would  thus  be  called  Deva,  or  the  celestial ;  and  as  the  heaven 
which  he  inhabited  was  one,  so  would  He  himself  also  be  conceived  of 
as  an  Unity.  This  primitive  monotheism,  however,  could  not  have 
been  very  clearly  defined,  but  must  have  remained  a  vague,  obscure, 
and  rudimentary  conception.  It  would  not  otherwise  be  easy  to  under- 
stand how  it  should  have  degenerated  into  polytheism.  But  as  the 
idea  of  God  remained  veiled  in  this  mysterious  obscurity,  it  became 
necessary  for  the  worshippers  to  seek  for  some  divinities  intermediate 
between  Him  and  themselves,  through  whom  they  might  approach 
Him  ;  and  to  explain  the  multiplicity  of  phenomena  (which  they  were 
not  as  yet  sufficiently  enlightened  to  derive  from  the  uniform  action  of 
one  central  will),  by  regarding  them  as  regulated  by  a  plurality  of 
divine  agents.  At  first,  however,  the  polytheism  would  be  simple, 
and  the  subordinate  deities  composing  the  pantheon  would  be  con- 
sidered as  the  ministers  of  the  one  supreme  deity.  Such  may  have 
been  the  state  of  things  when  the  different  branches  of  the  Aryans 
separated.  The  polytheistic  idea,  however,  when  once  it  had  begun  to 
work,  would  tend  constantly  to  multiply  the  number  of  divinities,  as 
we  see  it  has  abeady  done-in  the  Vedic  age.  So  great,  however,  is 
the  power  exercised  over  the  human  mind  by  the  principle  of  unity, 
that  the  idea  of  one  Supreme  Being,  though  obscured,  is  never  lost,  but 
is  always  breaking  forth  like  a  light  from  the  clouds  in  which  it  is 
enveloped.  The  traces  of  monotheism  which  are  found  in  the  Eig- 
veda  may,  perhaps,  M.  Pictet  thinks,  be  reminiscences  of  the  more 
ancient  religion  described  above,  though  the  pantheistic  ideas  observ- 
able, whether  in  the  myths  or  in  the  speculations  of  the  same  hymn- 
collection,  are  the  results  of  a  new  tendency  peculiar  to  the  Indian 
intellect.  While,  however,  the  Indians  thus  eventually  fell  into  pan- 
theism, the  Iranians  had,  at  an  earlier  period,  embraced  a  reformed 
system,  not  dualistic,  as  is  commonly  supposed,  but  monotheistic ;  and 
the  religious  separation  which  then  took  place  between  the  two  tribes 
may  have  had  its  origin  in  a  reaction  of  one  section  of  the  nation 


414  EEMABKS  ON  M.  PICTET'S  "VIEWS. 

against  the  growing  polytheism,  and  a  recurrence  to  tlie  principles  of 
the  old  monotheism,  of  which  the  remembrance  had  not  been  altogethei 
lost  (pp.  708  ff.). 

I  scarcely  think  that  M.  Pictet's  theory  regarding  the  character  of 
the  primitive  religion  of  the  Aryans  is  borne  out  by  the  arguments 
which  he  adduces  in  its  support. 

1.  It  may  be  quite  true  that  the  complicated  polytheism  which  we 
find  in  the  hymns  of  the  Eig-veda,  or  even  the  narrower  system  which 
we  may  suppose  to  have  existed  at  the  separation  of  the  Indian  and 
Iranian  tribes,  could  only  have  been  the  slowly-developed  product  of 
many  centuries ;  but  this  does  not  prove  that  a  simpler  form  of  nature- 
worship,  embracing  a  plurality  of  gods,  might  not  have  existed  among 
the  ancestors  of  these  tribes  from  the  beginning  of  their  history.  I  can 
see  no  reason  for  the  conclusion  that  monotheism  must  necessarily  have 
been  the  starting-point  of  the  system. 

2.  Again,  the  fact  that  the  great  objects  of  external  nature,  the  sky, 
the  earth,  the  sun,  were  designated  in  the  oldest  Aryan  language  by 
names  descriptive  merely  of  their  physical  characteristics,  supposing  it 
to  be  admitted,  would  not  suffice  to  establish  M.  Pictet's  inference  that 
no  divine  character  was  attributed  to  those  objects  at  the  time  when 
they  were  named.  Though  we  suppose  that  the  sky  {di/u  or  div) 
derived  its  appellation  from  its  luminous  appearance,  the  earth  (prithivi 
or  maM)  from  its  breadth  or  vastness,  and  the  sun  [surya  or  savitri)  from 
its  brightness  (Piotet,  ii.  667)  and  fecundating  power,  it  does  not  follow 
that,  though  familiarly  called  by  these  names,  they  were  not  at  the  same 
time  regarded  as  living  powers,  invested  with  divine  attributes.  How 
strong  soever  may  have  been  the  religious  feelings  of  the  primitive 
Aryans,  however  lively  their  sense  of  the  supernatural,  and  however 
forcibly  we  may  therefore  imagine  them  to  have  been  impelled  to  deify 
the  grand  natural  objects  by  which  they  were  surrounded  and  over- 
awed, it  is  obvious  that  the  physical  impressions  made  by  those  objects 
on  their  senses  would  be  yet  more  powerful  (in  proportion  as  they  were 
more  frequent  and  more  obtrusive) ;  and  that  consequently  the  sky, 
earth,  sun,  etc.,  even  though  regarded  as  deities,  would  naturally  be 
called  by  names  denoting  their  external  characteristics,  rather  than  by 
other  appellations  descriptive  of  the  divine  attributes  they  were  sup- 
posed to  possess. 


PFLEIDEREE  ON  PEIMITIVE  FORM  OF  EELIGIOTTS  BELIEF.     415 

If  an  etymological  argument  of  this  sort  were  to  be  considered  as 
settling  the  question,  we  might  in  like  manner  insist  that,  because  the 
word  Yaruna  means  (or  is  supposed  to  mean)  the  enveloper,  it  must 
therefore  in  the  beginning  have  designated  the  sky  alone  (as  the  corres- 
ponding word  ovpav6<s  afterwards  did  in  Greek),  and  could  not  have 
been  the  name  of  a  divinity.  But  this  conclusion,  however  it  may 
appear  to  be  confirmed  by  Greek  usage,  receives  no  support  from  the 
most  ancient  Indian  literature,  in  which  the  word  is  never  employed 
for  sky. 

In  such  inquiries,  moreover,  it  is  unsafe  to  build  too  much  on  ety- 
mologies, many  of  which  are  in  themselves  extremely  uncertain. 

I  will  quote  some  remarks  hearing  upon  this  subject  from  Dr.  Otto 
Pfleiderer's  book,  "Die  Religion,  ihr  Wesen  und  ihre  Gesohichte," 
ii.  45  ff.  (Leipzig,  1869),  received  while  this  work  was  passing  through 
the  press:  ""We  thus  see  that  in  this  original  form  of  piety"  (the 
conception  of  heaven  and  earth  as  the  principal  divinities),  "  there 
already  exist  general  powers,  to  which  the  devout  spirit  is  directed, 
powers  which,  in  consequence  of  their  relative  infinitude,  were  well 
calculated  to  present  and  render  comprehensible,  to  the  childlike  spirit, 
the  idea  of  absolute  infinity.  It  is  on  this  account  that  purely  moral 
emotions  were  possible  in  this  original  form  of  religion,  and  connected 
with  that  divine  worship,  although  we  are  not,  therefore,  in  any  way 
led  to  assume  that  men  had  any  thought  of  a  divine  being  distinguished 
from  heaven  and  earth,  in  the  form,  for  instance,  of  a  creative  god, 
enthroned  in  the  heavens.  From  the  fact  that,  in  our  own  case,  the 
idea  of  a  God  can  be  only  awakened  and  symbolized  by,  but  never  identi- 
fied with,  the  visible  infinity  of  heaven  and  earth,  we  can  draw  no 
conclusion  as  to  the  original  period  of  humanity  :  for  to  the  childlike 
contemplation  of  the  earliest  races,  the  heaven  and  earth  were  not,  what 
they  are  for  us,  for  the  educated  understanding,  a  system  of  finite 
causes  standing  in  a  relation  of  orderly  reciprocal  action  to  each  other ; 
but  living  beings,  endowed  with  soul,  acting,  after  the  manner  of  men, 
with  knowledge  and  will,  to  whom  consequently  men  could  quite 
properly  pray  with  the  firm  belief  that  they  would  be  heard,  and  their 
wishes  granted.  Such  a  primeval  childlike  nai'f  prayer  we  find  in  the 
Vedas  :  '  Father  Heaven,  gracious  mother  Earth,  brother  Fire,  ye 
shining  ones,   have  compassion  on  us'    (see  above,  p.  22,  note  32). 


416  SCHEREE  ON  THE  EAELY  ARYAN  RELIGION. 

The  Athenians  prayed  at  a  still  later  time:  'Kain,  rain,  0  dear 
Zeus,  down  upon  the  cultivated  lands  and  fields  of  the  Athenians,' 
on  which  Max  MiiUer  strikingly  remarks  that  this  prayer  is  clearly 
addressed  to  the  (sensible  atmospheric)  sky,  though  the  mere  addi- 
tion of  '  dear'  Ln  '0  dear  Zeus,'  is  sufficient  to  change  the  sky  into 
a  personal  being.  The  same  is  the  case  with  a  primcTal  Chinese 
prayer :  '  0  blue  Heaven,  look  down  upon  the  proud,  and  have  com- 
passion on  the  wretched.'  The  contents  of  this  prayer  presuppose  a 
spiritual  being,  which,  however,  is  by  the  adjunct  'blue'  easily  iden- 
tified with  the  visible  vault  of  heaven.  Max  MiiUer  (Science  of 
Language,  ii.  413  ff.)  here  raises  the  question  whether  the  identity  of 
the  word  for  heaven  and  for  god  is  to  be  explained  (1)  by  supposing 
that  the  word  at  first  merely  expressed  the  conception  of  the  sensible 
object  heaven,  and  that  the  appellative  noun  so  fixed  was  transferred 
to  the  idea,  which  arose  afterwards,  of  God,  as  a  being  enthroned  in 
the  highest  heaven,  as  one  of  the  possible  names  of  this  as  yet  name- 
less being ;  or  (2)  by  supposing  that  the  conception  of  heaven  and  that 
of  Grod  existed  separately  from  the  first  in  the  human  consciousness, 
and  were  only  in  consequence  of  their  resemblance  (the  tertium  com- 
parationis :  clearness,  elevation,  infinity)  both  expressed  by  the  same 
word  with  the  signification  of  shining.  In  both  these  modes  of  ex- 
planation the  relation  between  god  and  heaven  appears  to  be  considered 
in  a  fashion  too  external,  and  too  much  resulting  from  reflection.  We 
must  therefore  rather  conceive  it  thus :  Called  into  being  by  the  sen- 
suous impression  of  the  shining,  lofty,  boundless  heaven,  the  sense  of 
the  Divine  Being  was  stirred  into  activity  in  the  human  spirit,  and 
whilst  the  imagination,  which  moulded  speech,  expressed  that  sensuous 
impression  by  the  word  heaven,  it  at  the  same  time  and  in  the  same 
indivisible  act  expressed  the  devout  movement  of  the  spirit  by  the 
same  word,  as  the  name  of  the  (highest)  god.  The  distinction  which 
we  now  make  between  these  two  things,  and  which  is  the  main  cause 
of  the  difficulty  we  experience  in  understanding  mythology,  had  not 
begun  to  be  made  by  the  imagination  of  the  earliest  men,  who,  when 
they  pronounced  the  word  'heaven,'  applied  it  in  thought  to  a  living, 
animated,  and  active  being,  and  when  they  uttered  the  woi'd  '  God,' 
applied  it  to  the  visible,  clear,  blue  heaven." 

On  the  subject  before  us  I  will  also  quote  some  remarks  by  two 


OPINIONS  OP  SCHERER  AND  EE'VILLE  ON  THE  QUESTION.     417 

recent  French  writers.  The  first  of  these  is  M.  Edmond  Scherer,  an 
acute  theologian  and  accomplished  critic,  who,  in  a  review  of  M. 
Pictet's  work,  thus  expresses  himself : — 

"  M.  Pictet  distinguishes  in  the  religion  of  the  Aryans  two  elements, 
contrary  in  appearance,  (1)  a  monotheism  pure  and  elevated,  which 
conceives  the  Deity  as  a  heing  distinct  from  the  world ;  (2)  a  poly- 
theism resulting  from  the  personification  of  natural  objects,  and  which, 
by  attributing  life  to  these  objects,  creates  an  entire  mythology.  This 
apparent  contradiction  M.  Pictet  explains  by  a  development.  He 
thinks  the  human  mind  must  have  proceeded  from  the  simple  to  the 
complex,  from  unity  to  diversity ;  that  polytheism  has  arisen  from  the 
need  of  seeking  other  beings  intermediate  between  the  Supreme  Being 
and  man,  and  that  it  has  thus  been  able  to  establish  itself  without 
destroying  altogether  the  first  or  monotheistic  idea.  "We  are  thus 
brought  back  to  the  problem  with  which  M.  Eenan  has  dealt  in  his 
studies  on  the  Semitic  races,  although  with  this  difference,  that  M. 
Eenan  opposed  the  Semitic,  as  the  genius  of  monotheism,  to  the  Arya, 
as  the  genius  of  polytheism.  Perhaps  in  both  cases  the  difficulty 
arises  from  regarding  as  absolute  an  opposition  which  is  merely 
relative.  There  never  has  been,  and  doubtless  there  never  will  be, 
either  a  pure  polytheism  or  a  pure  monotheism.  Thus  religions  can 
only  be  defined  or  characterised  by  the  predominance  of  the  one  of  the 
two  elements  over  the  other;  and  their  history  consists  less  in  suc- 
cessive phases,  in  iheir  passing  from  one  form  to  the  other,  than  in  the 
coexistence  and  the  struggle  of  two  principles  answering  to  two  re- 
quirements of  the  human  soul  which  are  equally  imperious." — (Me- 
langes d'Histoire  Eeligieuse,  pp.  35  f.) 

On  the  same  subject  another  distinguished  theologian  of  the  critical 
school,  M.  Albert  Eeville,  writes  as  follows  in  the  "  Eevue  des  Deux 
Mondes"  (Peb.,  1864,  p.  721  f.)  :— 

"  If  we  had  before  us  positive  facts  attesting  that  the  march  of  the 
human  mind  has  been  such  (as  M.  Pictet  describes),  we  should  only 
have  to  surrender,  and  admit,  contrary  to  all  probability  d  priori,  that 
man,  while  still  sunk  in  the  most  profound  ignorance,  was  better  able 
to  grasp  religious  truths  than  he  was  at  the  epoch  when  he  began  to 
reflect  and  to  know.  But  have  these  facts  any  existence  ?  So  long  as 
none  can  be  alleged  which  have  a  demonstrative  force,  ought  we  not  to 

27 


418  VIEWS  OF  PKOFESSOR  BOTH 

hold  to  the  hypothesis,  confirmed  by  so  many  analogies,  of  a  gradual 
elevation  of  religion  (as  of  all  the  other  spheres  in  which  the  human 
mind  moves),  from  the  simplest  elements  to  the  most  sublime  concep- 
tions ? "  Again :  "  It  is  evident,  and  fully  admitted  by  M.  Pictet, 
that  our  ancestors  were  polytheists  before  their  separation ;  but  at  that 
period  this  polytheism  was  not  of  yesterday.  It  had  already  had  a 
history ;  and  it  is  a  matter  of  course  that,  in  the  historical  development 
of  a  polytheistic  religion,  there  must  have  been,  as  it  were,  guesses, 
germs,  presentiments  of  monotheism.  From  the  moment  when  a 
plurality  of  divine  beings  is  recognised,  a  community  of  divine  nature 
between  them  all  is  also  admitted.  In  this  way  arise  such  epithets  as 
'  luminous,'  '  adorable,'  '  Uving,'  '  mighty,'  which  in  course  of  time 
become  substantives,  like  our  word  '  Dieu '  itself.  The  sky,  per- 
sonified, and  become  an  object  of  adoration,  speedily  usurps  the  charac- 
teristics of  a  supreme  Deity,  elevated  above  all  others,  and  master  of 
an  irresistible  weapon,  the  thunderbolt.  Thus  in  most  mythologies 
the  sky  is  what  it  is  in  that  of  the  Greeks,  the  Jupiter,  the  sovereign 
father  of  gods  and  men.  In  short,  it  is  clear  that  the  human  mind,  in 
proportion  as  it  observes  and  reflects,  rises  more  and  more  towards 
monotheism,  in  obedience  to  that  imperious  law,  hidden  in  the  depths 
of  its  being,  which  leads  it  to  the  logical  pursuit  of  unity.  But  this 
movement  is  very  slow,  greatly  retarded  by  the  force  of  tradition  and 
habit,  and  we  ought  not  to  place  at  the  beginning  that  which  can  only 
be  found  at  the  very  end  of  the  process." 

I  shall  conclude  with  an  extract  from  Professor  E.  Eoth's  Essay  on 
the  "Highest  gods  of  the  Aryan  races,"  (Journal  of  the  German 
Oriental  Society,  vi.  76  f.),  in  which  that  able  writer,  while  holding 
that  the  religion  of  those  tribes  in  its  earlier  stages  contained  a  more 
spiritual  element,  which  was  eventually  preserved  in  a  modified  form 
by  the  Zoroastrian  creed,  recognizes,  as  also  embraced  in  that  elder 
religion,  a  system  of  nature-worship  which  afterwards  became  the  most 
prominent  element  in  the  Indian  mythology.  "We  must,  therefore, 
regard  Both  also  as  opposed  to  M.  Pictet's  theory  of  a  primitive 
monotheism.  The  greater  part  of  this  passage  has  been  already  given 
in  a  former  section,  pp.  117  f. ;  but  it  is  advisable  that  the  larger  portion 
of  it  should  be  repeated  here,  with  the  addition  of  the  introdueteiry 
paragraph,  from  the  bearing  of  the  whole  upon  the  present  discussion. 


ox  THE  PEIMITIVE  ARYAN  HELIGION.  419 

"  But  tliat  wliioh  still  further  enhances  the  interest  of  this  inquiry, 
and  is  of  especial  importance  in  reference  to  the  primitive  period,  is 
the  peculiar  character  attaching  to  the  conception  of  the  Adityas. 
The  names  of  these  deities  (with  a  certain  reservation  in  regard  to  that 
of  Varuna)  emhrace  no  ideas  drawn  from  physical  nature,  hut  express 
certain  relations  of  moral  and  social  life.  Mitra,  '  the  friend,'  Arya- 
man,  Bhaga,  Ansa,  the  gods  who  '  favour,'  '  bless,'  '  sympathize,'  and 
Daksha,  'the  intelligent,'  are  pure  spirits,  in  whom  the  noblest  rela- 
tions of  human  intercourse  are  mirrored,  and  so  appear  {i.e.  the  rela- 
tions appear)  as  emanations  of  the  divine  life,  and  as  objects  of 
immediate  divine  protection.  But  if  the  earliest  Aryan  antiquity  thus 
beheld  in  its  highest  gods,  not  the  most  prominent  manifestations  of 
physical  nature,  but  the  conditions  of  moral  life  and  society,  and  con- 
sequently esteemed  these  moral  blessings  more  highly  than  anything 
connected  with  the  wants  and  enjoyments  of  sense,  we  must  ascribe  to 
that  age  a  high  spiritual  capacity,  whatever  may  have  been  its  defi- 
ciency in  the  constituents  of  external  civilization. 

"  These  considerations  throw  some  light  on  the  principles  and 
character  of  the  two  Aryan  religions  which  have  sprung  from  one  and 
the  same  source.  The  religion  of  Ormuzd  holds  fast,  while  it  shapes, 
after  its  own  peculiar  fashion,  the  supersensuous  element  called  into 
existence  by  the  higher  order  of  gods  belonging  to  the  common  ancient 
creed,  and  eventually  rejects  almost  entirely  the  deities  representing 
the  powers  of  nature^  which,  as  well  as  those  of  the  former  class,  it 
had  inherited  from  the  earliest  period.  The  Vedic  creed,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  preparing  to  concede  the  highest  rank  to  the  latter  class  (the 
representatives  of  the  powers  of  nature),  to  transfer  to  them  an  ever 
increasing  honour  and  dignity,  to  draw  down  the  divine  life  into 
nature,  and  bring  it  ever  closer  to  man.  The  proof  of  this  is  especially 
to  be  found  in  the  myth  regarding  Indra,  a  god  who,  in  the  earlier 
period  of  Aryan  religious  history,  either  had  no  existence,  or  was 
confined  to  an  obscure  province.  The  Zend  legend  attributes  to 
another  deity  the  function  which  forms  the  essence  of  the  later  myth 
regarding  Indra.  This  god  Trita,  however,  disappears  from  the  Indian 
mythology  in  the  course  of  the  Vedic  age,  and  Indra  succeeds  him. 
And  not  only  so,  but  towards  the  end  of  this  period  Indra  begins  to 
push  aside  even  Varuna  himself,  the  highest  god  of  the  ancient  creed, 


420  ROTH  ON  THE  PRIMITIVE  ARYAN  RELIGION. 

from  the  position  which  is  shown,  partly  by  historical  testimonies,  and 
partly  by  the  very  conception  of  his  character,  to  belong  to  him,  and 
becomes,  if  not  the  supreme  god,  at  least  the  national  god,  whom  his 
encomiasts  strive  to  elevate  above  the  ancient  Varuna."  ...  "Thus 
the  course  of  the  movement  is,  that  an  ancient  supreme  deity,  originally 
common  to  the  Aryans  (i.e.  the  ancestors  of  the  Persians  and  Indians), 
and  perhaps  also  to  the  entire  Indo-Germanic  race,  Yaruna-Ormuzd- 
TJranos,  is  thrown  back  into  the  darkness,  and  in  his  room  Indra,  a 
peculiarly  Indian,  and  a  national  god,  is  introduced.  "With  Varuna 
disappears  at  the  same  time  the  old  character  of  the  people,  while  with 
Indra  a  new  character,  foreign  to  the  primitive  Indo-Grermanic  nature, 
is  in  an  equal  measure  brought  in.  Viewed  in  its  internal  essence, 
this  modification  in  the  religious  conceptions  of  the  Aryans  consists  in 
an  ever-increasing  tendency  to  attenuate  the  supersensuous,  mysterious 
side  of  their  creed,  till  at  length  the  gods  who  were  originally  the 
highest  and  the  most  spiritual  have  become  unmeaning  representatives 
of  nature,  and  Varuna  is  nothing  more  than  the  ruler  of  the  sea,  while 
the  Adityas  are  the  mere  regents  of  the  sun's  course. 

"  When  the  higher  and  more  spiritual  elements  in  the  Indian  creed 
had  thus  become  so  greatly  reduced,  it  was  inevitable  that  a  reaction 
should  ensue,"  etc. 

Although,  towards  the  close  of  the  preceding  passage,  Professor 
Eoth  speaks  of  an  "  ancient  supreme  deity"  (ew  alter  ....  oherster 
Qott)  as  "originally  common  to  the  Aryans,"  it  is  evident  from  the 
entire  context  that  he  does  not  regard  this  deity  as  their  only  object 
of  adoration,  since  he  recognizes  the  existence  of  a  plurality  of  gods. 
In  the  previous  part  of  his  dissertation,  too.  Both  speaks  (p.  70)  of 
the  close  relation  in  the  Vedic  era  between  Varuna  and  another  god, 
Mitra, — a  relation  which  he  holds  to  have  subsisted  from  an  earlier 
period.  And  at  p.  74,  he  refers  to  the  activity  and  dignity  of  Varuna 
being  shared  by  the  other  Adityas,  though  no  separate  provinces  can 
be  assigned  to  them,  while  he  is  the  first  of  the  number,  and  represents 
in  himself  the  powers  of  the  whole  class.  If  this  description  apply  to 
the  ancient  Aryan  religion,  it  cannot  be  properly  said  to  have  been 
monotheistic,  though  one  deity  may  have  been  more  prominent  than 
the  rest. 


421 


SECTION  XXII. 

MISCELLANEOUS  HYMNS  FEOM  THE  KIG-  AND  ATHAEVA-VEDAS.s" 

The  hymns  of  the  Eig-veda  are,  as  is  ■well  known,  almost  entirely  of 
a  religious  character,  designed,  or  at  least,  adapted,  for  recitation  at 
the  worship  of  the  various  popular  deities,  or  at  some  of  the  cere- 
monials connected  with  various  important  events  in  the  domestic  or 
public  life  of  the  ancient  Indians.  Among  these,  however,  are  inter- 
spersed a  few  of  a  different  description,  which,  from  the  wide  celebrity 
they  had  acquired,  were  carefolly  preserved  by  the  descendants  of 
their  authors,  or  by  other  interested  persons,  and  have  been  incor- 
porated in  the  great  collection  of  sacred  songs.  Some  of  these  pro- 
ductions, like  the  colloquy  of  Tama  and  Tami  (translated  above  in  pp. 
282  ff.),  the  very  obscure  conversation  between  the  hero  Pururavas  and 
the  Apsaras  TJrva^I  (R.Y.  x.  95),^"  and  the  Vrishakapi  hymn  (R.V.  x. 
86),  derived  their  importance  from  the  interlocutors  being  personages 
regarded  as  divine,  or  ranked  among  the  ancestors  of  the  human  race. 
Others,  like  the  72nd,  the  90th,  and  the  129th  hymns  of  the  10th 
Book  (also  quoted  above  in  pp.  48  f.,  367  ff.,  and  356  f.)  were  vene- 
rated from  the  nature  of  the  topics  which  they  handled,  or  the  depth  or 
gravity  of  the  speculations  which  they  contain.  Others,  again,  such 
as  the  hymns  referred  to  by  Professor  Both,  in  his  dissertation  "  on. 
the  historical  matter  contained  in  the  Eig-veda,"*'*  would  possess  an 

^"  I  have  again  to  acknowledge  tlie  valuable  aid  whioh  I  have  received  from  Pro- 
fessor Aufcecht  in  rendering  some  of  the  more  difficult  parts  of  the  hymns  translated 
in  this  section. 

691  Professor  Max  Miiller's  Essay  on  Comparative  Mythology,  in  the  Oxford 
Essays  for  1856,  reprinted  in  his  "  Chips  from  a  German  Workshop,"  vol.  ii.,  contains 
a  translation  of  this  myth,  as  narrated  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana.  The  Brahmana, 
however,  only  quotes  and  illustrates  the  easiest  verses  of  the  hymn  (E.V.  x.  9S), 
making  no  reference  to  its  most  obscure  and  difficult  portions.  Some  of  the  verses 
not  cited  in  the  Brahmana  are  explained  by  Professor  Miiller.  See  also  Eoth's 
Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  pp.  153  ff.  and  230. 

598  gur  Litteratur  und  Gesohichte  des  Weda,  p.  87. 


422  HYMN  TO  AEANTANJ,  E.V.  x.  146. 

interest  for  the  descendants  of  the  contending  priestly  races  to  whose 
rivalries  they  made  allusion,  and  might  even  be  valued  for  the  pur- 
poses of  imprecation  to  which  they  could  be  applied.*''  And  those 
compositions  which  celebrate  the  liberality  of  different  princes  to  their 
domestic  priests  would  naturally  be  handed  down  with  care  by  the 
Successors  of  those  favoured  individuals. 

Id  the  following  Section  I  shall  adduce  some  other  hymns,  both  from 
the  Rig-  and  the  Atharva-vedas,  which  are  only  in  part  of  a  religious 
character,  and  possess  a  greater  general  interest  than  the  bulk  of  those 
with  which  they  are  associated,  from  the  references  which  they  make 
to  human  character,  dispositions,  feelings,  passions,  and  circumstances ; 
from  the  light  which  they  throw  on  the  progress  of  sacerdotal  preten- 
sions, or  from  some  other  feature  of  their  contents.  In  some  of  these 
hymns  it  will  be  seen  that  a  considerable  amount  of  shrewdness  and 
worldly  wisdom  is  expressed  in  a  sententious  form. 

(1)  Hymn  to  AranyS.ni,  e.v.  x.  146. 

The  first  hymn  which  I  shall  adduce,  addressed  to  the  goddess  of 
forest  solitude,  is  distinguished  by  the  poetical  feeling  which  pervades 
it,  and  the  natural  manner  in  which  the  emotions  arising  from  the 
situation  there  described  are  depicted,  though  some  of  the  allusions 
which  it  contains  are  difficult  to  explain  or  comprehend.  It  is  re- 
peated in  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  ii.  5,  6,  6  f.,  and  interpreted  by  the 
Commentator  on  that  work.  (See  also  Eoth's  Illustrations  of  the 
Nirukta,  p.  132). 

1 .  Aranyani  Aranyani  asau  ya  preva  naiyasi  \  kathd  gramafh  na  gacTih- 
asi  na  tvd  hhlr  wa  vindaU  I  2.  VriaMrcmaya  vadate  yad  vpavati  eUeh- 
ohikah  \  aghatibUr  wa  dhdvayann  Aranyanw  mahiyate  \  3.  Via  gavah 
ivadanti  uta  veimeva  driiyate  \  uto  Aranyanih  sdyam  iakatlr  wa  sarjati  \ 
4.  Gam  angaisha  a  hvayati  darv  angaisho  apdvadMt  |  vasann  Aranyd- 
nyart  sdyam  ahruhahad  iti  manyate  \  5.  Na  vai  Aranydnir  hanti  anyak 
ehen  ndlldgachhati  \  svddoh  phalasya  jagdhvdya  yathdlcdmam  nipadyate  | 
6.  Anjanagandhdm  surabhim  bahvanndm  akrisMvaldm  \  prdham  mrigd- 
ndm  mdta/ram  Aranydnim  asafhsisham  | 

M"  See  the  Ist  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  327  and  143. 


HYMN  TO  AEANTANI,  E.V.  x.  146.  423 

1.  "Aranyani,  Aranyani,  thou  who  Beemest  to  lose  thyself  there, 
why  dost  thou  not  ask  [the  way  to]  the  village  ?  Does  not  terror 
seize  thee  (at  thy  solitude)  ?  2.  "When  the  chiehchika  (a  bird)  answers 
to  the  roar  of  bulls  when  it  is  uttered,  flying  about  as  if  with  cymbals, 
then  Aranyani  rejoices.  3.  And  the  cows  seem  to  eat,  and  the  house 
appears  to  be  seen,  and  at  evening  Aranyani  seems  to  discharge  the 
carts.  4.  One  man  calls  to  his  cow,  another  feUs  a  tree  ;  a  man 
dwelling  in  the  forest  (in  Aranyani)  fancies  that  she  [or  some  one] 
has  screamed.  5.  Aranyani  is  not  [herself]  murderous,  if  no  one 
else  (a  tiger,  etc.)  assails  ;  but,  after  eating  of  sweet  fruit,  a  man 
rests  there  at  his  pleasure.  '6.  I  laud  Aranyani,  the  mother  of  wild 
beasts,  the  unctuous-scented,  the  fragrant,  who  yields  abundance  of 
food,  though  she  has  no  hinds  to  tUl  her." 

The  following  is  a  free  metrical  version  of  the  first,  fifth,  and  sixth 
verses  of  this  hymn  : — 

1.  Thou  seemest,  goddess,  here  to  stray 

Forlorn  among  these  trackless  woods. 

These  dark  and  dreary  solitudes. 
"Why  dost  thou  not  inquire  the  way 
That  leads  to  cheerful  human  haunts  ? 
Is  there  nought  here  thy  courage  daunts  ? 

5.  Herself  this  goddess  does  not  slay. 

Although  she  nurtures  murderous  beasts  : 
On  luscious  fruits  the  traveller  feasts. 
Supplied  by  her,  and  goes  his  way. 

6.  Eich-scentedj  fragrant,  full  of  flowers, 

Her  realm  with  various  food  is  filled ; 

For  though  by  hinds  she  is  not  tiUed, 

She  drinks  in  sap  from  heavenly  showers. 

The  next  hymn  which  I  shall  quote  refers  to  the  great  variety  by 
which  the  aims  and  pursuits  of  different  men  are  characterized.  It  is 
distinguished  by  a  vein  of  naif  observation,  not  unmingled  with 
satire ;  and  is  curious  as  disclosing  to  us  the  occupations  pursued  by  the 


424     EIG-VEDA,  ix.  112,  ON  THE  VARIETY  OF  MEN'S  PURSTJITS. 

poet's  father  and  mother,  though  it  makes  no  reference  to  the  class  to 
■which  they  belonged. 

(2)  Eig-veda,  ix.  112. 

1.  Nananam  vai  u  no  dhiyo  vi  vratdni  janandm  \  taksha  rishtam 
rutam  Ihishag  Irahma  sunvantam  ichhati  Indraya  Indo  parisrma  \  2. 
Jaratibhir  oshaiMhhir  parnehhih  saJcunandm  \  harmdro  aimdbhir  dyulhir 
hiranya/ocmtam  ichhati — |  3.  Karur  aham  tato  hhishag  itpalaprakshini 
nana  \  nanddhiyo  vasuycmo  arm  gdh  iva  tasthima — |  4.  Asvo  volhd 
sukham  ratham  hasandm  upamantrinah  \  iepo  romanvantau  hhedau  vdr 
in  manduhah  ichhati — | 

"1.  We  different  men  have  all  our  various  imaginations  and  designs. 
The  carpenter  seeks  something  that  is  broken,  the  doctor  a  patient,  the 
priest  some  one  who  will  offer  libations.  0  Indu  (Soma),  flow  forth  for 
Indra.™"  2.  With  dried-up  sticks,  with  birds'  feathers,  with  metals,  and 
fire  [?]  the  artizan  continually  seeks  after  a  man  with  plenty  of  gold. 
0  Indu,  etc.,  etc.  3.  (=Nirukta,  vi.  6)  I  am  a  poet,  my  father  is  a 
doctor,  and  my  mother  is  a  grinder  of  corn.  With  our  different  views, 
seeking  to  get  gain,  we  run  after  [our  respective  objects]  as  after 
cattle.*"  0  Indu,  etc.  4.  The  draught  horse  desires  an  easy-going 
carriage ;  merry  companions  a  laugh ;  the  female  sex  the  male ;  and 
frogs  a  pond.     0  Indu,"  etc. 

I  add  a  free  metrical  rendering  of  these  verses : — 

Men's  tastes  and  trades  are  multifarious, 
And  so  their  ends  and  aims  are  various. 
The  smith  seeks  something  cracked  to  mend ; 
The  leech  would  fain  have  sick  to  tend. 
The  priest  desires  a  devotee, 
From  whom  he  may  extract  his  fee. 

Ko  This  last  clause,  wMoh  is  repeated  at  tlie  end  of  each,  of  the  verses,  and  trans- 
forms the  hymn  into  an  address  to  Soma,  is  perhaps  a  later  addition  to  an  older  song; 
as  it  seems  to  have  no  connection  with  the  other  parts  of  the  verses  to  which  it  is 
attached. 

601  The  three  preceding  verses  are  translated  by  Eoth,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the 
Nirukto,  p,  74. 


RIG-VEDA,  X.  34,  ON  THE  MISERIES  OF  GAMBLING.         425 

Each  craftsman  makes  and  vends  his  ware, 
And  hopes  the  rich  man's  gold  to  share. 
My  sire 's  a  leech ;  and  T  a  bard ; 
Com  grinds  my  mother,  toiling  hard. 
All  craving  ■wealth,  we  each  pursue. 
By  different  means,  the  end  in  view. 
Like  people  running  after  cows, 
"Which  too  far  off  have  strayed  to  browse. 
The  draught-horse  seeks  an  easy  yoke, 
The  merry  dearly  like  a  joke. 
Of  lovers  youthful  belles  are  fond, 
And  thirsty  frogs  desire  a  pond. 

(3)  Rig-veda,  x.  34. 

The  next  hymn,  which  may  possibly  be  the  production  of  one  who 
lays  before  us  the  sad  results  of  his  own  bitter  experience,  describes 
with  great  vividness,  graphic*  power,  and  truth  of  observation,  the 
seductions  and  miseries  of  gambling,  which  we  see  were  as  acutely  felt 
by  their  victims  in  those  early  ages  as  they  are  in  these  later  times. 

1  (=Nirukta,  ix.  8).  Prdvepdh  ma  brihato  muAayanti  pravatejah 
irine  varvritdndh  \  somasya  iva  Maujmatasya  Ihaksho  vibMdako  jagrivir 
mahyam  achhdn  \  2.  Na  md  mimetha  najiMle  eshd  iwd  sakhibhyah  uta 
mahyam  asit  \  akshasya  aham  ekaparasya  hetor  anmratdm  a/pa  jdydm 
mrodham  \  3.  Dveshti  svasrur  a/pa  jdyd  runaddhi  na  ndthito  vindate 
marditdram  \  ahasya  iva  jarato  vasnyasya  ndham,  vinddmi  hUavasya 
bhogam  \  4.  Anye  jdydm  pari  mriianti  asya  yasya  agridhad  vedane  vdji 
ahshah  I  pita  mdtd  bhrdtarah  enam  dhur  na  j'dmmo  nayata  baddham 
etam  \  6.  Yad  ddidhye  na  davishdni  ebhih  pardyadlhyo  ava  hiye  sakhi- 
bhyah I  nyuptds  eka  habhravo  vdcham  akrata  emi  id  eshdm  nishkritam 
jdrinl  iva  \  6.  Sabhdm  eti  kitavah  prichhamdno  jeshydmi  iti  tativd 
iuiiydnah  \  akshdso  asya  vi  tiranti  hdmam,  pratidwne  dadhatah  a 
kritdni  \  7.  Akshdsah  id  ankusino  nitodino  nikritvdnas  tapands  tapa- 
yishna/vah  \  kumdradeshndh  jayatah  punarhano  madhid  sampriktdh  kita- 
vasya  barhand  \  8.  Tripanchdiah  knlati  vrdtah  eshdm  devah  iva  sa/vitd 
satyadharmd  \  ugrasya  chid  manyave  na  namante  raja  chid  ebhyo  namah 
it  hrinoti  \  9.  Nioha  vartante  upa/ri  sphwamti  ahastdso  hastavantam 


426         EIG-VEDA,  x.  34,  ON'  THE  MISERIES  OF  GAMBLING. 

sahante  \  dwyah  angardh  irme  wywptah  iltah  smto  hridayam  nir 
dahanti  \  10.  Jay  a  tapyate  Utmasya  Mna  mata  putrasya  charatah  leva 
sv%t  \  nnava  lihhyad  dhanam  iohhamano  anyesham  astam  upa  naUam  eti  \ 
11.  Striyam  drishtvaya  kitcwcm  tatapa  (myeshafh,  j&yafh  sukrita'fh  cha 
yonim  \  purvahne  aivan  yuyuje  hi  labhrun  so  agner  ante  vrishalah  pa- 
pada  I  12.  To  vah  senanlr  mahato  ganasya  raja  vratasya  prathamo 
habhuva  \  tasmai  krinomi  na  dhana  rumdkmi  daiaham  pracMs  tad  ritam 
vadami  \  13.  Ahhair  ma  dwyah  krishim  it  krishasva  vitte  ramasva  bahu 
manyamanah  \  tatra  gavdh  hitma  tava  jaya  tad  me  vi  ehashfe  Savita 
'yam  aryah  \  14.  Mitram  krinudhvam  khalu  mrilata  no  ma  no  ghorem 
chardtabhi  dhrishnu  \  ni  vo  nu  mam/ywr  viiatam  wati/r  anyo  babhrundm 
prasitau  nu  astu  \ 

"1.  The  tumbling,  air-born  [products]  of  the  great  Vibhidaka  tree 
{i.e.  the  dice)  delight  me  as  they  continue  to  roll  on  the  dice-board. 
The  exciting  dice  seem  to  me  like  a  draught  of  the  soma-plant  growing 
on  mount  Mujavat.  2.  She  (the  gamester's  own  wife)  never  quarrelled 
with  or  despised  me.  She  was  kind  to  me,  and  to  my  friends.  But  I, 
for  the  sake  of  the  partial  dice,  have  spurned  my  devoted  spouse.  3. 
My  mother-in-law  detests  me  ;  my  wife  rejects  me.  In  his  need  [the 
gamester]  finds  no  comforter.  I  cannot  discover  what  is  the  enjoy- 
ment of  the  gambler  any  more  than  I  can  perceive  what  is  the  happi- 
ness of  a  worn-out  hack  horse.  4.  Others  pay  court  to  the  wife  of  the 
man  whose  wealth  is  coveted  by  the  impetuous  dice.  His  father, 
mother,  brothers,  cry  out,  '  We  know  nothing  of  him  ;  take  him 
away  bound.'  6.  When  I  resolve  not  to  be  tormented  by  them, 
because  I  am  abandoned  by  my  friends  who  withdraw  from  me, — ^yet 
as  soon  as  the  brown  dice,  when  they  are  thrown,  make  a  rattling 
sound,  I  hasten  to  their  rendezvous,  Kke  a  woman  to  her  paramour.™ 
6.  The  gamester  comes  to  the  assembly,  glowing  in  body,  and  asking 
himself,  '  shall  I  win  ?'  The  dice  inflame  his  desire,  by  making  over  his 
winnings  to  his  opponent.  7.  Hooking,  piercing,  deceitful,  vexatious, 
delighting  to  torment,  the  dice  dispense  transient  gifts,  and  again  ruin 
the  winner;  they  appear  to  the  gambler  covered  with  honey.  8. 
Their  troop  of  fifty-three  disports  itself  [disposing  men's  destinies] 
like  the  god  Savitri,  whose  ordinances  never  fail.    They  how  not  before 

602  These  words  ate  quoted  in  Nirukta,  xii.  7. 


METRICAL  VERSION  OF  EIG-VEDA,  x.  34.  427 

the  -wratli  even  of  the  fiercest.  The  king  himself  makes  obeisance  to 
them.  9.  They  roll  downward;  they  bound  upward.  Having  no 
hands,  they  overcome  him  who  has.  These  celestial  coals,  when 
thrown  on  the  diceboard,  scorch  the  heart,  though  cold  themselves. 
10.  The  destitute  wife  of  the  gamester  is  distressed,  and  so  too  is  the 
mother  of  a  son  who  goes  sbe  knows  not  whither.  In  debt  and 
seeking  after  money,  the  gambler  approaches  with  trepidation  the 
houses  of  other  people  at  night.  11.  It  vexes  the  gamester  to  see  his 
own  wife,  and  then  to  observe  the  wives  and  happy  homes  of  others. 
In  the  morning  he  yokes  the  brown  horses  (the  dice);  by  the  time 
when  the  fire  goes  out  he  has  sunk  into  a  degraded  wretch.  12.  He 
who  is  the  general  of  your  band,  the  first  king  of  your  troop, — to  him 
I  stretch  forth  [my]  ten  [fingers]  toward  the  east  [in  reverence]  : '°'  I 
do  not  reject  wealth,  but  I  declare  that  which  is  right  (when  I  say) : 
13.  Never  play  with  dice:  practice  husbandry;  rejoice  in  thy  pro- 
perty, esteeming  it  suf8.cient.  '  There,  o  gamester,  are  thy  cows ; 
[this  is]  thy  wife;' — so  the  adorable  Savitri  addresses  me.  14.  Be 
friendly  [o  dice] ;  be  auspicious  to  us ;  do  not  bewitch  us  powerfully 
with  your  enchantment.  Let  your  wrath  and  hostility  abate.  Let 
others  be  subject  to  the  fetters  of  the  brown  ones  (the  dice)." 

The  following  is  an  attempt  freely  to  reproduce,  in  verse,  the  spirit 
of  this  composition : — 

These  dice  that  roll  upon  the  board, 
To  me  intense  delight  afford. 
Sweet  Soma-juice  has'  not  more  power 
To  lure  me  in  an  evil  hour. 
To  strife  and  wrangling  disinclined. 
My  gentle  wife  was  always  kind  : 
But  I,  absorbed  in  maddening  play, 
Have  chased  this  tender  spouse  away. 
She  now,  in  turn,  my  person  spurns ; 
Her  mother's  wrath  against  me  bums  : 
Distressed  and  vexed,  in  vain  I  plead, 
For  none  will  help  me  in  my  need. 

«»'  Compare  A.V.  v.  28,  11,  and  Yaj.  Sanh,  ivi.  64. 


428  METEICAL  VEESIOIT  OF  EIG-VEDA,  x.  34. 

As  wretched  as  a  wom-out  hack's, 

The  gamester's  life  all  joyance  lacks.     . 

His  means  by  play  away  are  worn, 

While  gallants  court  his  wife  forlorn. 

His  father,  mother,  brothers  shout, 

"  The  madman  hind,  and  drag  him  out." 

At  times,  the  scorn  of  every  friend, 

I  try  my  foolish  ways  to  mend, 

Eesolve  no  more  my  means  to  waste 

On  this  infatuated  taste  : 

But  all  in  vain : — when,  coming  near. 

The  rattle  of  the  dice  I  hear, 

I  rush,  attracted  by  their  charms. 

Like  lady  to  her  lover's  arms. 

As  to  his  game  the  gambler  hies. 

Once  more  his  hopes  of  winning  rise ; 

And  loss  but  more  his  ardour  fires ; 

To  try  Hs  luck  he  never  tires. 

The  dice  their  victims  hook-  and  tear, 

Disturbing,  torturing,  false  though  fair. 

The  transient  gains  they  yield  to-day 

Are  all  to  morrow  swept  away. 

These  sportive  dice,  a  potent  band. 

The  destinies  of  men  command. 

They  laugh  to  scorn  the  fierce  man's  frown ; 

Before  them  doughty  kings  bow  down. 

They  downward  roll,  they  upward  hound. 

And,  handless,  men  with  hands  confound. 

They  scorch  the  heart  like  brands,  these  dice. 

Although  themselves  as  cold  as  ice. 

The  gambler's  hapless  wife  is  sad  ; 

His  mother  mourns  her  wayward  lad. 

In  want,  at  night  he  seeks  relief 

By  graceless  shifts,  a  trembling  thief. 

He  groans  to  see  his  wretched  wife, 

And  then  the  happy  wives  and  life 

Of  others,  free  from  care  and  strife. 


QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  ATHAEVA-VEDA  ON  GAMBLING.     429 

His  bad  career,  with,  morning  ligtt 

Begun,  in  ruin  ends  by  nigbt. 

To  him,  the  chief  -who  leads  your  bands. 

Ye  Dice,  I  lift  my  suppliant  hands ; 

"  I  hail  thy  gifts  when  thou  art  Hud, 

But  crave  thy  leave  to  speak  my  mind. 

Fojgive  me,  king  of  all  the  dice, 

If  thus  I  give  my  friend  advice  : 

'  Abandon  play,  and  tUl  the  soil, 

For  this  shall  better  pay  thy  toil. 

Well-pleased  with  what  thou  hast,  forbear 

To  crave  of  wealth  an  ampler  share.'  " 

"  Thy  wife,  thy  kine, — in  these  rejoice," 

Thus  cries  a  god  with  warning  voice. 

Be  gracious.  Dice,  we  now  implore  ; 

Bewitch  us  with  your  spells  no  more. 

From  us  withdraw,  to  us  be  kind. 

And  others  with  your  fetters  bind. 
That  the  passion  for  gambling  prevailed  very  extensively  at  the  time 
when  the  hymns  of  the  Eig-  and  Atharva-vedas  were  composed  is  clear 
from  various  other  allusions  to  the  practice  which  we  find  there.  Thus 
in  E.V.  vii.  86,  6,  dice  are  mentioned  along  with  wine,  anger,  thought- 
lessness, etc.,  as  causes  of  sin  (see  above,  p.  66).  The  following  verses 
from  the  Atharva-veda  prove  the  same  point : — 

A.Y.  vii.  50,  1.  Yatha  vriksham  asanir  vUvaha  hanti  aprati  |  evaham 
adya  hitwodn  dlcBhair  ladhyasam  aprati  \  2.  Turanam  atwanam  viiam 
avarjushmam  \  samattu  viivato  hhago  antarJiastam  hritam  mama  | 

"1.  As  the  lightning  every  day  strikes  the  tree  irresistibly,  so  may 
I  to-day  irresistibly  smite  the  gamesters  with  the  dice.  2.  May  the 
wealth  of  the  rich  and  of  the  poor  unresistingly  be  collected  from  every 
side  into  my  hand  as  winnings." 

vii.  109,  1.  Idam  ugrdya  haihrave  namo  yo  ahheshu  tanuvaii  |  ghri- 
tena  halim  kikshami  sa  no  mridati  idrise  \  2.  Qhritam  Apsa/ralhyo  vaha 
tvam  A.gne  pamsun  akshebhyah  sihatdh  apas  cha  \  yathabhagafh  Iw/vya- 
datim  jushdndh  madanti  devdh  ulhaydni  havyd  \  3.  Apsarasah  sadha- 
mddara  madanti  hcwirdhdnam  anta/ra  suryam  cha  \  tdh  me  hastau  sam- 
srijantu  ghriiena   sapatnam  me  hitavam  randhayantu  \   4.  Adinavam 


430     QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  ATHASVA-VEDA  ON  GAMBLING. 

pratidivne  ghritena  asmdn  ahhi  kshara  |  vrihham  ivasanyd  jahi  yo 
asmdn  pratidivyati  \ 

"I.  This  reverence  be  paid  to  the  brown  [die],  who  is  ruler  among 
the  dice.  "With  butter  I  worship  the  Kali ;  may  he  thus  be  auspicious 
to  us.  2.  Bring,  o  Agni,  butter  to  the  Apsarasea,  but  dust,  sand,  and 
water  to  the  dice.  Seeking  oblations  according  to  their  several  shares, 
the  gods  delight  in  both  offerings.  3.  The  Apsarases  hold  a  festivaj^ 
between  the  oblation  and  the  sun.  May  they  anoint  my  hands  with 
butter,  and  overwhelm  the  gamester  who  is  my  opponent.  4.  Dis- 
pense bad  luck  to  our  adversary,  but  moisten  us  with  butter.  Strike, 
as  lightning  does  a  tree,  the  man  who  plays  against  us." 

vi.  118,  1.  Yad  hastahhydm  chakrima  Mlhiskani  ahshandni  gamm 
wpalvprnmanah  \  TJgrampaiye  Ugrajitay,  tad  adydpsarasav  anu  dattdm 
rinam  nah  \ 

"1.  Whatever  sins  we  have  committed  with  our  hands,  seeking  to 
obtain  the  host  of  dice, — ^remit  to  us  to-day  that  debt,  ye  Apsarases 
Ugrampa^ya  and  XJgrajit." 

iv.  38,  1.  Udbhindatim,  sanjayantim  a/pio/rdm  sddhudevinlm  \  glahe 
hritdni  krimSndm  apsardm  tdm  iha  hme  \  2.  Viohinvatlm  dkirantim, 
apsmdm  sddhtidevmim  \  glahe  hritdni  grihndndm  apsaram — |  3.  Ya 
dyaih  parinrityati  ddaddnd  kritam,  glaltat  \  ad  nah  Icfitdni  aishati 
prahdm  dpnotu  mdyayd  |  sd  nah  payasvati  aitu  tnd  no  jaiahur  idam 
dhanam  \  4.  TdJ}  akaheihv,  pramodante  iueham  hrodham  cha  hibhrati  | 
dnandimm  pramodinim  apsardm  tdm  iha  hwoe  [ 

"  I.  I  invoke  hither  the  skilfully-playing  Apsaras  who  cuts  up  and 
conquers,  and  gets  gains  in  the  game  of  dice.  2.  I  invoke  hither  the 
skilfuUy-playing  Apsaras  who  collects  and  scatters,  and  receives  gains 
in  the  game  of  dice.  3.  May  she  who  dances  about  with  the  dice, 
when  she  wins  by  gaming,  grant  gain  to  ns,  and  obtain  success 
through  her  skill.  May  she  come  to  us  with  abundance  of  food.  Let 
them  not  conquer  this  money  of  ours.  4.  I  invoke  hither  the  joyful 
and  exulting  Apsaras — ^^  those  [goddesses]  who  delight  in  dice,  and 
who  cherish  grief  and  anger." 

It  will  be  seen  &om  these  verses  that  the  Apsarases  are  intimately 
comieoted  with  gambling.  In  A.V.  ii.  2,  4,  they  are  said  to  be  "fond 
of  dice,"  and  soul-bewitching"  {akihakdmdh  manomuhah). 

The  next  two  hymns  which  I  proceed  to  quote  are  in  praise  of 


EIG-VEDA,  X.  117,  IN  PEAISE  OF  LIBERALITY.  431 

generosity.  The  first  of  them  celebrates  liberality  to  the  destitute  in 
general ;  the  second  eulogizes  the  same  virtue  when  exhibited  in  giving 
presents  to  priests. 

(4)  Rig-veda,  x.  117. 

1 .  Na  vai  u  devah  Tcshudliam  id  vadham  dadwr  utaUtam  wpa  gachhanti 
mrityavaA  |  wto  rayih  primto  nopa  dasyati  utdprinan  marditaram  na 
vindate  \  2.  Yah  adhraya  ehakamanaya  pitvo  cmnman  san  raphitaya 
upajagmushe  |  dhiram  manah  krinute  sevate  pwd  uto  chit  sa  marditaram 
na  vindate  |  3.  Sa  id  hhojo  yo  grihame  dadati  annalcamaya  char  ate 
hrisaya  \  a/ram  asmai  hhavati  ydmahutd  utdparishu  krinute  sakhdyam  \ 

4.  Na  sa  saldid  ya  na  dadati  sakhye  sachdbhuve  saohamdndya  pitvah  \ 
apa  asmdt  preydd  na  tad  oho  asti  prinantam  anyam  aranam  chid  iehhet  \ 

5.  Priniydd  in  nadKamdndya  tavydn  drdghlydmsam  anu  paiyeta  pan- 
thdm  I  0  hi  vartante  rathyd  iva  chakrd  anyam  anyam  upa  tisthhanta 
rdyah  |  6.  Mogham  annam  vindate  aprachetdh  satyam  hravimi  vadhah  it 
sa  tasya  \  na  aryamanam  pushyati  no  sakJmyam.  kevaldgho  hhavati  keioa- 
Iddl  I  7.  Krishann  it  phdlah  diitam  krinoti  yann  adhvdnam  apa  vrinkte 
eharitraih  \  vadan  brahmd  avadato  vanlyan  prinann  apir  aprinantam  abhi 
sydt  I  8.  JSkapdd  Ihuyo  dvipado  vichakrame  dvipdt  tripddam  alhi  eti 
pahhdt  I  chatushpdd  eti  dvipaddm  abhisvare  sampasyan  panktlr  upa- 
tishthamdnah  \  9.  Samau  chid  hastau  na  samam  vivishta^  sammatard 
chid  na  samam  duhdte  \  yamwyok  chid  na  samd  vvydni  jndtl  chit  santau 
na  samam  prinitah  | 

"1.  The  gods  have  not  ordained  hunger  to  be  our  destruction. 
Even  those  who  are  full-fed  are  overtaken  by  various  forms  of  death 
[lit.  deaths).  The  prosperity  of  the  liberal  man  never  decays ;  while 
the  illiberal  finds  no  comforter.  2.  He  who,  himself  well  provided 
■with  sustenance,  hardens  his  beart  against  the  poor  man  who  ap- 
proaches him,  starving,  and  who  has  long  courted  him,  desirous  of 
food,  such  a  man  meets  with  none  to  cheer  him.  3.  He  is  the  boun- 
tiful man  who  gives  to  the  lean  beggar  who  comes  to  him  craving  food. 
Success  attends  that  man  in  the  sacrifice,  and  he  secures  for  himself  a 
friend  in  the  future.  4.  He  is  no  friend  who  bestows  nothing  on  his 
friend  who  waits  upon  him,  seeking  for  sustenance.  Let  every  one 
depart  from  such  a  man ;  his  house  is  no  home, — and  look  out  for 
some  one  else  who  is  liberal,  even  though  he  be  a  stranger.    6.  Let  the 


432  METRICAL  VERSION  OP  RIG-VEDA,  i.  117. 

powerful  man  be  generous  to  the  suppliant ;  let  him  look  down  the  long 
path  [of  futurity].  For,  oh,  riches  revolve  like  the  wheels  of  a  chariot : 
they  come,  now  to  one,  now  to  another.™*  6.  In  vain  the  fool  obtains 
food:  I  tell  the  truth;  it  becomes  his  destruction  (comp.  v.  1).  He 
nourishes  neither  his  friend  nor  his  companion.  He  who  keeps  his 
food  to  himself  has  his  sin  to  himself.  7.  The  ploughshare  furrowing 
the  ground  brings  men  plenty.  A  man  moving  onward  with  his  feet 
accomplishes  his  journey.  A  priest  who  speaks  is  more  acceptable 
than  one  who  is  silent.  A  kinsman  who  is  beneficent  excels  one  who 
is  stingy.  8.  A  one-footed  being  advances  faster  than  a  two-footed. 
The  two-footed  comes  after  the  three-footed.  The  four-footed  follows 
in  the  rear  of  the  two-footed,  and  moves  on  observing  his  steps.  9. 
The  two  hands,  though  alike,  do  not  perform  an  equal  amount  of 
work.  Two  cows  with  the  same  mother  do  not  yield  the  same  quan- 
tity of  milk.  Two  men,  though  twins,  have  not  the  same  strength. 
And  two  others,  though  kinsmen,  are  not  equally  liberal." 

The  following  is  a  free  metrical  rendering  of  some  of  these  verses : — 

The  gods  have  not  ordained  that  we 
Should  die  of  want ;  the  lean  and  weak 
Are  not  death's  only  prey  ;  the  sleek 

Themselves  must  soon  his  victims  be. 

The  man  endowed  with  ample  pelf 

Who  steels  his  heart,  in  selfish  mood, 

Against  the  poor  who  sue  for  food 
Shall  no  consoler  find  himself. 

6"*  It  is  curious  to  find  in  so  ancient  a  composition  this  now  trite  comparison  of 
the  changes  of  fortune  to  the  revolutions  of  a  wheel.  The  same  idea  occurs  in  the 
Mahabharata,  iii.  15489  :  "  After  happiness,  suffering,  and  after  suffering,  happiness, 
visit  a  man  in  succession,  as  the  spokes  of  a  wheel  [revolve  round]  the  nave" 
(^su/chasi/anantarcm  duhkham  duhkhait/anantaram  mleham  \  paryayenopamrpmiU 
narcm  nemim  ardh  iva).  Compare  S'atap.  Br.  s.  2,  6,  19:  panat  pipasa  sriyai 
papma  (poverty  from  prosperity)  jyotishas  tamo  ^tnritad  mrifyur  ni  ha  vai  asniad 
etani  sanani  varttante.  \  "  To  drinking  succeeds  thirst,  to  prosperity  wretchedness,  to 
light  darkness,  and  to  immortality  death  :  so  that  aU  these  things  constantly  revolve 
in  a  circle."  According  to  Herodotus,  i.  207,  Croesus  said  to  Cyrus :  "  If  thou 
knowest  that  even  thou  art  human,  and  rulest  over  mortals,  learn  first  this  lesson, 
that  in  the  affairs  of  men  there  is  a  wheel  which,  by  its  revolution,  renders  it  im- 
possible for  the  same  persons  always  to  enjoy  prosperity." 


EIG-VEDA,  X.  107,  ON  LIBEEALITT  TO  PRIESTS.  433 

No  friend  is  he  who  coldly  spurns 

Away  his  needy  friend  forlorn : 

He,  thus  repulsed,  in  wrath  and  scorn 
To  some  more  liberal  stranger  turns. 

Relieve  the  poor  while  yet  ye  may  ; 

Down  future  time's  long  vista  look, 

And  try  to  read  that  darkling  book ; 
Tour  riches  soon  may  flit  away. 

Ye  cannot  trust  their  fickle  grace ; 
As  chariot  wheels,  in  ceaseless  round, 
Now  upward  turn,  now  touch  the  ground. 

So  riches  ever  change  their  place. 

The  man  whose  friend  receives  no  share 

In  all  his  good,  himself  destroys  : 

Who  thus  alone  his  food  enjoys 
His  sin  alone  shall  also  bear. 

(5).  Rig-veda,  x.  107. 

1.  Avir  ahhud  maid  magjtonam,  eshdm  visvamjlvarh  tamaso  nir  amochi  \ 
mahi  jyotih  pitribhir  dattam  agad  v/ruh  panthah  dahshinayah  adarH  \ 
2.  Uchcha  d/ivi  dakshinavanto  asthur  ye  aivadah  saha  te  suryena  |  hira- 
nyadah  amritatvam  hhajante  vasodah  Soma  pratirante  ayuh  \  3.  Baivl 
purttir  dahhind  devayajya  nakmdribhyo  na  hi  te  primnti  \  atha  nardh 
prayata-dakshinaso  avadya-lMyd  hahcwah  primnti  |  ....  5.  Dahshi- 
navdn  prathamo  hutah  eti  dahhindvdn  grdmanir  agram  eti  |  tarn  eva 
manye  nripatim  jandndm  yah  prathamo  dakshindm  dvivdya  \  6.  Tarn 
eva  rishim  tarn  u  Irahmanam  dhur  yajnanyain  sdmagdm  uMhasasam  |  sa 
iuhrasya  tanvo  veda  tisro  yah  prathamo  dahhinaya  rarddha  |  7.  Dahhind 
'ham  dahhind  gam  daddti  dahhind  chandram  uta  yad  hiranyam  \ 
dahhind  'nnam  vanute  yo  nah  dtmd  dahhindm  varma  Jcrinute  vydnan  \ 
8.  Na  hhojdh  mamrur  na  nyartham  lyur  na  rishyanti  na  vyathante  ha 
bhojdh  I  idam  yad  visvam  bhuvanam  Bvaicha  etat  sarvam  dahhind  ebhyo 
daddti  I  9.  £hojdh  Jigyuh  surabhim  yonim  agre  bhojdh  jigywr  vadhvam 
yd  suvdsdh  \  hhojdh  jigyur  antahpeyam  surdydh  bhydh  jigyur  ye  ahutdh 
prayanti  \   10.  Bhojdya  asvam  sam  mrijanfi  dsum  bhojdya  aste  kanyd 

28 


434  PRAISE  OP  LIBERALITY  TO  PEIESTS. 

iumbliamand  \  Ihojasya  idam  pushkaranim  vesma  parishhritam  devamdna 
iva  chiiram  |  11.  Bhojam  asvah  sushthuvaho  vahanti  smrid  ratho  varttate 
dahshinayah  \  llioja/ih  devaso  avata  bhareshu  hhojah  satrun  samcmikeshu 
jeta  I 

"  1.  The  great  liberality  of  these  men  has  been  manifested. 
The  whole  living  [world]  has  been  liberated  from  darkness.  The 
great  light  given  by  the  Fathers™'  has  arrived.  The  broad  path  of 
Largess  has  been  beheld.  2.  The  givers  of  gifts  abide  aloft  in  the 
sky;  the  hestowers  of  horses  live  with  the  Sun;  the  givers  of  gold 
attain  immortality ;  the  bestowers  of  raiment  prolong  their  lives.  3. 
A  gift  is  a  satisfaction  of  the  gods,  an  offering  to  the  deities,  and  [pro- 
ceeds] not  from  the  illiberal ;  they  bestow  nothing ;  and  many  men 
who  bestow  largesses  are  bountiful  merely  through  fear  of  reproach 
.....  5.  The  giver  of  gifts,  invited,  advances  first  :  he  walks  in 
the  front  as  leader.™*  I  regard  as  the  king  of  men  him  who  first 
presented  a  gift.  6.  They  call  him  a  rishi,  a  priest,  a  reverend 
chanter  of  hymns  and  reciter  of  verses, — he  knows  the  three  forms  of 
the  resplendent  (Agni), — the  man  who  was  the  first  to  crown  [his 
religious  service]  with  a  gift.  7.  Largess  bestows  a  cow,  a  horse, 
and  gleaming  gold.  Largess  bestows  food,  which  is  our  life.  The 
wise  man  makes  largess-giving  his  breastplate.  8.  Bountiful  men 
neither  die  nor  fall  into  calamity ;  they  suffer  neither  wrong  nor  pain. 
Their  liberality  confers  on  them  this  whole  world  as  well  as  heaven. 
9.  The  bountiful  conquer  for  themselves  first,  a  pleasant  abode,  a  weU- 
dressed  wife,  and  a  draught  of  wine ;  they  conquer  those  who  walk 
before  them,  uninvited.  10.  A  fleet  horse  is  trained  for  the  generous 
man ;  he  obtains  a  brilliant  damsel  for  his  portion ;  this  house  of  his 
resembles  a  lotus-pond,  beautiful,  embellished  like  the  palaces  of  the 
gods.  11.  The  liberal  man  is  borne  along  by  rapid  horses.  The  car  of 
largess  roHs  forward  on  easy  wheels.  Preserve,  ye  gods,  the  bountiful 
man  in  battle.    He  overcomes  his  enemies  in  the  fight." 

605  Compare  E.V.  x.  68, 11.  "  The  Fathers  have  adorned  the  sky  with  stars  .... 
and  placed  darkness  in  the  night,  and  light  in  the  day"  (see  ahove,  p.  287). 

606  Compare  E.V.  iv.  50,  8  f.  where  the  prosperity  and  honour  which  attend  a 
prince  who  retains  and  cherishes  a  domestic  priest  are  described.  See  Professor 
Wilson's  translation,  and  note  on  i>.  9,  in  p.  214;  and  Eoth's  Art.  on  Brahma  and 
the  Brahmans,  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  i.  77  ff.  See  also  the  hymn  from  the  A.V. 
iii.  19,  quoted  in  the  let  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  283. 


EIG-VEDA,  Tii.  103,  AUTUMNAL  EEVIVAL  OF  THE  FROGS.     435 

Verses  8  ff.  may  be  thus  freely  rendered  : — 

The  liberal  does  not  mourn  or  die  ; 

'No  pain  or  care  his  life  annoys ; 

This  world  is  his  with  all  its  joys, 
And  future  bliss  beyond  the  sky. 

He  owns  a  princely  palace  bright, 

And  dwells  in  godlike  pomp  and  pride  ; 
A  richly  decked  and  winning  bride 
Sits  fair  and  blooming  by  his  side, 

And  fills  his  heart  with  love's  delight. 

With  plenteous  stores  of  corn  and  wine 
Supplied,  a  merry  life  he  leads ; 
Swift  o'er  the  plain  his  chariot  speeds, 
Whirled  on  by  prancing,  snorting,  steeds  ; 

He  smites  his  foes  by  aid  divine. 

The  hymn  which  I  cite  next  has  been  already  translated  by  Pro- 
fessor Max  Miiller  in  his  Ane.  Sansk.  Lit.,  pp.  494  f.,  where  he  thus 
remarks  on  it :  "  The  103rd  hymn  of  the  7th  Mandala,  which  is  called 
a  panegyric  of  the  frogs,  is  clearly  a  satire  on  the  priests ;  and  it  is 
curious  to  observe  that  the  same  animal  should  have  been  chosen  by 
the  Vedic  satirist  to  represent  the  priests,  which,  by  the  earliest 
satirist  of  Greece,  was  selected  as  the  representative  of  the  Homeric 
heroes." 

(6)  Rig-veia,  vii.  103. 

1.  Samvatsaram  ^a^ayanah  hrahmanah,  vrata-charinah  \  vacham  Par- 
janyorjinvitdm  pra  mandukah  a/vadishuh  \  2.  Divyah  apo  ahM  yad  enam 
ay  an  dritifh  na  iusKkarh  sarasi  sayanam  \  gavdm,  aha  na  mdyur  vatsini- 
nam  mandukandm  vagnur  atra  sam  eti  \  3.  Yad  im  enan  u§ato  ahjvy 
avarshit  trishyavatah  pravrishi  agatayam  \  ahhhhallkritya  pita/ram  na 
putro  anyo  anyam  upa  vadantam  eti  \  4.  Anyo  anyam  arm  grilhndti  enor 
apam  visarge  yad  amandishdtam  |  manduico  yad  ahhivrishfah  hanishhan 
priinih  samprinMe  haritena  vdoham  \  5.  Yad  eshdm  anyo  anyasya 
vacham  iahtasyeva  vadati  Hkshamdnah  |  sarvam  tad  eshdm  samridheva 
parva  yad  simdcho  vadathana  adhi  apsu  \  6.  Gomdyur  eko  qfamdyur  ehah 
prUnir  eko  haritah  ekah  eshdm  \  samdnam  ndma  libhrito  virupah  purutra 


436  AUTTJMKAL  CROAKING  OF  THE  FROGS  COMPARED 

vacham  pipUwr  vadantah  \  7.  Br&hmanaso  atvrdtre  na  some  saro  na 
purnam  ahhito  vadantah  \  samvatsarasya  tad  ahah  pari  shtha  yan 
man^ukah  prdvrisMnam  hahhUva  \  8.  Brahmanasah  somino  vacham 
alcrata  hrahma  Icrinvantah  parwatsarinam  |  adhvaryavo  gharminah  sishvi- 
danah  avir  Ihavanti  guhyah  na  ke  chit  \  9.  Bevahitim  jugupur  dodda- 
iamja  ritum  naro  na  pra  minanti  etc  \  aamvatsare  pravrishi  agatdydm 
tapfdh  gharmdh  asnuvate  visargam  \  10.  Oomdyw  addd  ajamdyur  addt 
prismr  addd  harito  no  vasuni  \  gavdm  mandukdh  dadatah  Satdni  saha- 
srasdve  pratirante  dyah  \ 

-^  "1.  These  vow-fulfilling  Bxahmans,  the  frogs,  after  lying  quiet  for 
a  year,  have  now  uttered  their  voice,  stimulated  hy  Parjanya  (the 
rain-god).  2.  "When  the  waters  from  the  sky  fell  upon  them,  as  they 
lay  like  a  dry  skin  ^^  in  the  (dried- up)  pond,  the  voice  of  the  frogs 
rises  in  concert,  like  the  lowing  of  cows  which  have  calves.  3.  When, 
on  the  arrival  of  the  autumn,  rain  feU.  upon  them,  when  they  were 
ardently  desiring  it  and  parched  with  thirst,  the  one  croaking  ap- 
proaches, like  a  son  his  father,  another  who  is  calling  out.  4.  One 
of  them  seizes  the  other,  when  they  are  delighted  with  the  dis- 
charge of  the  waters  ;  when  the  speckled  frog,  soaked,  and  leaping 
upwards,  joins  his  voice  to  that  of  the  green  one.  5.  When  the 
one  repeats  the  sounds  of  the  other,  as  a  pupil  the  words  of  his 
teacher,  your  every  limb  seems  in  full  vigour,  as  ye  make  a 
loud  noise  upon  the  waters.  6.  One  lows  like  a  cow,  another 
bleats  like  a  goat ;  one  of  them  ia  speckled,  another  green.  Having 
a  common  name,  they  vary  in  appearance,  and  modulate  their  voices 
diversely  as  they  croak.  7.  Like  Brahmans  at  the  Atiratra  soma- 
rite,  like  (priests)  talking  round  a  full  bowl,  ye  frogs  surround  the 
pond  on  this  day  of  the  year  which  is  the  day  of  autumn.  8.  The 
soma-offering  Brahmans  raise  their  voices,  performing  their  annual 
devotions  ;  these  adhvaryus,  sweating  with  their  hot  oblations  [or 
their  kettles^  issue  forth  like  persons  who  have  been  hidden.  9.  They 
have  observed  the  divine  ordinances  of  the  year ;  these  creatures  do 
not  disregard  the  season  ;  when  autumn  has  arrived  these  heated 
kettles  obtain  their  release.  10.  The  frog  who  lows,  and  the  one  who 
bleats,  the  speckled  and  the  brown,   have  bestowed  on  us  riches  : 

5<"  Prof.  MuUer  renders  driti  by  "  flsh."     I  prefer  the  more  common  signification 
of  "skin." 


TO  THE  BEAHMANS'  EECITATION  OF  PRAYEES.  437 

giving  us  hundreds  of  cows,  the  frogs  prolong  our  lives  in  the  season 
of  a  thousand  shoots." 

I  have  attempted  to  give  the  substance  of  this  hymn  very  freely  in 
the  following  verses  : — 


r 
I 


As  Brahmans,  who  a  vow  fulfil, 

The  frogs  had  now  a  year  been  still. 
Like  dried  and  shrivelled  skins  they  lay, 

Faint,  parched  with  heat  for  many  a  day, 
Expecting,  long  in  vain,  the  showers 
"Withheld  by  Air's  malignant  powers. 
But  autumn  comes;  Parjanya  rains 
In  copious  streams,  and  floods  the  plain's. 
Clouds  veil  the  sun,  the  air  is  cool. 
The  ponds,  long  empty,  now  are  fuU. 
There  float  the  frogs,  their  bodies  soak  ; 
Afar  is  heard  their  merry  croak. 
"Well  drenched,  they  jump  aloft  in  gtee. 
And  join  in  noisy  colloquy. 
They  leap  upon  each  others'  backs, 

_And  each  to  t'  other  cries  co-ax. 
As  teachers  first  call  out  a  word. 
Then  boys  repeat  what  they  have  heard. 
Just  so  the  frogs  croak  out  once  more 
"What  other  frogs  had  croaked  before. 
Sounds  diverse  issue  from  their  throats. 
Some  low  like  cows,  some  bleat  like  goats, 
Though  one  in  name,  of  various  sheen, 
Por  one  is  brown,  another  green. 
As  Brahmans  at  a  Soma-rite 
Around  the  bowl  in  talk  unite. 
This  day  the  frogs  their  pond  surround, 
Xnd  make  the  air  with  noise  resound. 
These  priests,  the  frogs,  their  voices  raise. 
And  sing  their  annual  hymn  of  praise. 
As  priests  who  sweated  o'er  a  pot 
Soon  quit  the  fire  they  find  too  hot. 


438      ATHAEVA-VEDA,  vii.  12,  PRAISE  OP  SOCIAL  MEETINGS. 

The  frogs,  so  long  oppressed  by  heat, 
Emerge  in  haste  from  their  retreat. 
From  rules  divine  they  never  swerve. 
But  all  the  seasons'  laws  observe. 
When  autumn  comes,  their  sufferings  cease, 
From  scorching  heat  they  find  release. 
The  frogs  that  bleat,  and  those  that  low. 
Brown,  green,  on  men  all  wealth  bestow. 
The  kine  that  on  our  pastures  graze, 
(    We  owe  to  them,  with  length  of  days. 

It  is  possibly  an  echo  of  this  production  that  we  find  in  a  description 
of  autumn  in  the  Harivamsa,  v.  8803,  where  the  poet  compares  the 
noise  made  by  a  frog,  after  his  rest  of  sixteen  half  months,  along  with 
his  wives,  to  the  recitation  of  the  Eig-veda  by  a  Brahman  surrounded 
by  his  pupils  {plmangamah  shodasa-pahshaiayl^"'  virauti  goshthah  mha 
Mminihhih  \  richo  dvijatih  priya-satya-dharma  yathd  svaiishyaih  pari- 
varyamanah).  On  this  verse  the  late  M.  Langlois  somewhat  naively 
remarks  as  follows,  in  a  note  to  his  French  translation  of  the  Hariv. 
vol.  ii.  p.  132  :  Dans  nos  moeurs  rien  n'  egalerait  1'  impertinence 
d'une  comparaison  dans  laquelle  une  grenouille  serait  assimilee  a  un 
respectable  eccl6siastique.  Les  Indiens,  a  ce  qu'  il  paralt,  ne  voyaient 
dans  telle  espeoe  de  rapprochement  aucune  teinte  d'  impiete." 

The  next  hymn  breathes  a  social  spirit,  and  a  disposition  to  profit 
by  the  improving  influences  of  the  company  of  cultivated  men,  com- 
bined, however,  with  a  vainglorious  desire  to  shine  at  their  expence. 

(7).  Atharva-veda,  vii.  12. 

1 .  Sabha  cha  ma  samitU  cha  avatdm  Prajapater  duMta/rau  samvidane  \ 
yenasangaohhai  upa  ma  sa  sikahat  oharu  vadani  pitarah  sangateshu  \  2.'' 

«"'  There  seems  to  be  no  doubt  that  tbis  word  refers  to  tbe  frog'*  eigbt  months 
quiescence  since  the  close  of  the  preceding  rainy  season.  M.  Langlois,  who  had 
before  him  the  reading  shodaia-palcsha-saryyl,  was  naturally  puzzled  by  it,  and 
renders  it,  "  La  grenouille,  dont  les  flancs  sent  oomme  sUlonnes  par  les  seize  cotes," 
and  he  adds  a  note  to  the  following  effect :  "  II  me  semble  que,  par  oette  epithfete  un 
peu  obscure,  1'  intention  de  1'  auteur  est  de  d^peindre  les  seize  cStes  de  la  grenouille, 
devenues  plus  apparentes  k  la  suite  des  chaleurs  de  I'^te  qui  ont  du  1'  affaiblir." 


ATHAEVA-VEDA,  iii.  30,  PRAYER  FOR  CONCORD  IN  A  FAMILY.  439 

Vidma  te  sabhe  nama  naruhtd  ndma  vai  asi  \  ye  te  Ice  cha  sahhasadas  te  me 
santu  savdchasah  |  3.  Esham  aha'm  samdslndna&  liareJio  mjndnam  adade  j 
asydh  sarvasyuh  samsado  mdm  Indra  Ihaginam  hrinu  \  4.  Tad  vo  manah 
pmragatafh  yad  haddham  iha  veha  vd  \  tad  vah  avwrtayamasi  mayi  vo 
ramatdm  manah  \ 

"1.  May  Assembly  and  Meeting,  the  two  daughters  of  Prajapati, 
concurrently  preserve  me.  May  every  one  -whom  I  meet  resort  to  me  ; 
may  I  speak  agreeably,  o  fathers,  in  the  assemblies.  2.  Assembly, 
Tve  know  thy  name  ;  thy  name  is  conversation.  Let  all  the  members 
of  the  company  converse  with  me.  3.  I  appropriate  the  glory  and  the 
knowledge  of  these  men  who  are  seated  here.  Indra,  make  me  the 
most  distinguished  in  all  this  assembly.  4.  If  your  thoughts  have 
turned  elsewhere,  or  are  enchained  here  or  there,  we  cause  them  to 
return :  let  them  delight  in  me." 

The  hymn  of  which  I  next  give  the  first  four  verses  contains  a 
prayer,  or  incantation,  for  concord  in  a  family. 


(8).  Athana-veda,  iii.  30. 

1.  Sahridayam  sdmmanasyam  avidvesham  Jcrinomi  vah  \  anyo  any  am 
alhi  haryata  vatsam  jdtam  ivdghnyd  \  2.  Anuvratah  pituh  putro  mdtrd 
Ihavatu  sammandh  \  jdyd  patye  madhumatim  vdchani  vadatu  iantivan  \  3. 
Md  Ihrdtd  hhrdtaram  dvikshad  md  svasdram  uta  svasd  |  samyanchah 
savratdh  hhutvd  vdeham  vadata  hhadrayd  \  4.  Yena  devdh  na  viyanti  no 
cha  vidvishate  mithah  \  tat  lerinmo  Irahma  vo  grihe  sanjnanam  purushe- 
Ihyah  \ 

"  1.  I  impart  to  you  concord,  with  unity  of  hearts  and  freedom  from 
hatred :  delight  one  in  another,  as  a  cow  at  the  birth  of  a  calf.  2, 
May  the  son  be  obedient  to  his  father,  and  of  one  mind  with  his 
mother :  may  the  wife,  at  peace  with'™  her  husband,  speak  to  him  honied 
words.  3.  Let  not  brother  hate  brother,  nor  sister  sister  :  concordant 
and  united  in  will  speak  to  one  another  with  kind  words.  4.  We 
perform  in  your  house  an  incantation,  creating  concord  among  its  in- 

609  I  am  unable  to  give  an  explanation  of  the  word  dantivm,  whicli,  though  mascu- 
line in  form,  seems  to  agree  with  jaya. 


440  INCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DYING, 

mates,  and  one  through  which  the  gods  will  not  desert  you,  nor  mutual 
hatred  exist.""" 

The  four  hymns  of  the  Atharva-veda  which  follow  contain  incanta- 
tions designed  to  save  persons  suffering  under  dangerous  diseases,  and 
on  the  point  of  death,  from  death ;  or  rather  perhaps  to  try  to  recall 
their  spirits  after  their  separation  from  the  body.  They  supply  various 
illustrations  of  the  conceptions  entertained  by  the  Indians  of  the  period 
when  they  were  composed,  regarding  the  vital  principle,  the  relations 
of  the  different  senses  to  the  several  elements,  the  deities  by  whom 
men's  tenure  of  life  was  regulated,  the  power  of  incantations  to  arrest 
the  approach  of  doom,  and  other  kindred  particulars.  Some  of  the 
ideas  which  we  shall  meet  here  have  already  occurred  in  the  section 
on  Tama. 

(9).  Atharva-veda,  v.  30. 

1.  Avatas  te  avatah  pardvatas  te  avatah  \  ihaiva  hhava  ma  nu  gak  md 
purmn  anu  gdh  pitnn  asum  ladhndmi  te  dridham  \  2.  Yat  tvd  'Ihieheruh 
purushah  svo  yad  aranojanah  \  unmochana-pramoehane  ulhe  vdchd  vaddmi 
te  I  3.  Yad  dudrohitha  kpishe  striyai  pumse  aoMttyd  |  unmo — |  4.  Yad 
enaso  matrilcritdt  hshe  pitrikritdt  cha  yat  \  unmo — |  5.  Yat  te  mdtd  yat 
te  pita  jamir  hhrdtd  cha  sarjatah  |  pratyah  sevasva  Iheshajam  jaradashtim 
Tcrinomi  tvd  \  6.  Ihaidhi  purusha  sarvena  manasd  saha  |  dutau  Yamasya 
md  'nugah  adhi  jwapura  ihi  \  7.  Anuhutah  punar  ehi  vidvdn  udayanam 
pathah  \  drohanam  dlcramanam  jivato  jivato  Ujanam  \  8.  Ma  hihher  na 
marishyasi  jaradashtim  Tcrinomi  tvd  \  nira/Bocham  aham  yahshmam  ange- 
Ihyo  ^ngajvaram  tava  \  9.  Angabhedo  angajvaro  yai  cha  te  hridaydmayah  \ 
yakshmah  iyenah  iva  prdpaptad  vdchd  sddhah  parasta/rdm  \  10.  Rishl 
Bodhapratlbodhdv  asvapno  yak  cha  jdgrivih  |  tau  te  prdnasya  goptdrau 
diva  naUam  cha  jdgritdm  \  11.  Ay  am  Agnir  upaaadyah  iha  suryah 
udetu  te  \  udehi  mrityor  gamlMrdt  krishndt  chit  tamasas  pari  \  12. 
JVamo  Yatndya  namo  astu  mrityave  namah  pitribhyah  uta  ye  nayanti  \ 
utpdranasya  yo  veda  tarn  agnim  puro  dadhe  asmai  arishtatataye  \  13. 

SI"  Three  hymns  of  the  Atharva-veda,  viz.  iii.  19  ;  v.  18,  and  v.  19,  together  with 
two  verses  (the  8th  and  9th)  of  v.  17,  which  formed  part  of  this  section,  as  it  origi- 
nally appeared  in  the  Journal  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society  for  1866,  pp.  33  ff.,  are 
omitted  here,  as  they  have  subsequently  been  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work, 
2nd  Edition,  pp.  280-287. 


OE  RECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFE.  441 

Aitu  ^ranah  aitu  manah  aitu  chalcshur  atho  lalam  \  sariram  asya  sam 
vidam  tat  padbhyam  prati  tishfhatu  |  14.  Pranenagne  chakshusha  sam 
srijemam  samlraya  tanva  sam  lalena  |  vettha  amritasya  ma  nu  gat  ma 
nu  hhumigriho  'bhitvat  |  15.  Ma  te  pranah  upadasat  mo  apano  'pi  dhayi 
te  I  suryas  tvd  ^dhipatir  mrityor  udayaohhatu  rakmilhih  |  16.  lyam 
antar  vadati  j'ihvd  haddhd  •  paniskpadd  \  tvayd  yaJcshmam  niravocham 
satam  ropik  cha  tahnanah  \  17.  Ay  am  lolcah  priyatamo  devdndm  apard- 
jitah  I  yasmai  tvam  iha  mrityave  dishtah  purusha  jcy'nishe  \  sa  cha  tvd 
'nu  hvaydmasi  md  purd  jaraso  mrithdh  \ 

"1.  Prom  tliy  vicinity,  from  thy  -vicinity,  from  a  distance,  from 
thy  vicinity  [I  call]  to  thee  :  remain  here ;  do  not  follow,  do  not 
follow,  the  early  Fathers.  I  firmly  hold  back  thy  breath.  2.  What- 
ever incantations  any  kinsman  or  stranger  has  uttered  against  thee, 
— with  my  voice  I  declare  thy  release  and  deliverance  from  them 
all.  3.  Whatever  hurt  thou  hast  done,  or  curse  thou  hast  spoken,  in 
thy  folly,  against  woman  or  man,  with  my  voice,  etc.  4.  If  thou  liest 
there  in  consequence  of  any  sin  committed  by  thy  mother,  or  thy 
father,""  with  my  voice,  etc.  5.  Eeceive  the  medicine  which  thy 
father,  mother,  sister  and  brother  oifer  to  thee.  I  make  thee  long- 
lived.  6.  Remain  here,  o  man,  with  thy  entire  soul ;  do  not  follow 
the  two  messengers  of  Tama ;  *'*  come  to  the  abodes  of  the  living.  7. 
Eetum  when  called,  knowing  the  outlet  of  the  path,  the  ascent,  the 
advance,  the  road  of  every  living  man.  8.  Fear  not;  thou  shalt  not 
die ;  I  make  thee  long-lived.  I  have  charmed  out  of  thy  members 
the  consumption  by  which  they  are  wasted.      9.  The   consumption. 

6^1  Compare  a  curious  passage  from  the  Taittirlya  Erahmana  iii.  7,  12,  3  f.,  already 
quoted  in  p.  66 :  "  May  Agni  deliver  me  from  any  sin  which  my  mother  may  have 
committed  when  I  was  in  her  womb,  or  which  my  father  may  have  committed.  May 
my  parents  have  received  no  injury  from  me,  when  I,  a  son,  in  sucking,  squeezed  my 
mother  and  father  in  my  delight."  Compare  also  E.V.  vii.  86,  5,  quoted  above  in 
the  same  page,  as  well  as  the  following  texts :  E.V.  vi.  51,  7,  Ma  vah  eno  anya- 
Tcritam  bhujema  ma  tat  Tcarma  yat  chayadhve  \  "May  we  riot  suffer  [the  penalty  of] 
sin  committed  by  others,  or  do  that  which  you  will  punish,  o  Vasus ! "  vii.  52,  2, 
Ma  vo  bhujema  anyajatam  eno  ma  tat  karma  vasavo  yat  cJiayadhve  \  of  nearly 
identical  sense  with  the  preceding  text.  x.  37,  12.  Yad  no  devai  chakrima  jihoaya 
gwru  manaso  vaprayutl  devahelanam  \  arava  yo  no  abhi  duehhimayate  tasmin  tad  eno 
vasavo  ni  dhetana  |  "  If  we  have  committed  against  you  any  grievous  offence,  o  gods, 
with  our  tongues,  or  through  thoughtlessness,  transfer  (the  guilt  of)  that  sin  to  the 
enemy  who  regards  us  with  malice." 

«2  See  the  section  on  Yama,  p.  294. 


442  IlSrCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DYING, 

which  racks  and  wastes  thy  limbs,  and  sickens  thy  heart,  has  flown 
away  to  a  distance  like  a  hawk,  overcome  by  my  word.  10.  The  two 
sages,  Alert  and  Watchful,  the  sleepless  and  the  vigilant,  these  the 
guardians  of  thy  life,  are  awake  both  day  and  night.  11.  May  this 
adorable  Agni  rise  here  to  thee  as  a  sun.  Kise  up  from  deep  death, "^ 
yea,  even  from  black  darkness.*"  12.  Eeverence  to  Yama,  reverence 
to  Death,  reverence  to  the  Fathers,  and  to  those  who  guide  us.  I 
place  in  front  of  this  [sick]  man,  for  his  security,  Agni,  who  knows 
how  to  carry  him  across.  13.  Let  his  breath,  let  his  soul,  let  his 
sight  come,  and  then  his  strength ;  let  his  body  accLuire  sensation,  and 
stand  firm  upon  its  feet.  14.  Provide  him,  Agni,  with  breath,  and 
with  sight ;  restore  him,  furnished  with  a  body,  and  with  strength."" 
Thou  hast  the  knowledge  of  immortality ;  let  him  not  depart,  or 
become  a  dweller  in  a  house  of  clay.  15.  Let  not  thy  inhaled  breath 
cease  ;  let  not  thy  exhaled  breath  vanish.  Let  the  sun,  the  lord,  raise 
thee  up  from  death  by  his  rays.  16.'  This  tongue  speaks  within, 
bound,  convulsive.  By  thee  I  have  charmed  away  the  consumption, 
and  the  hundred  torments  of  the  fever.  17.  This  world  is  the  dearest, 
unconquered  by  the  gods.  To  whatever  death  thou  wast  destined 
when  thou  wast  born,  o  man, — we  call  after  thee,  do  not  die  before 
thou  art  worn  out  by  old  age." 

(10)  Atha/rva-veda,  vir.  53. 

1.  Amutrabkuydd  adki  yad  Yamasya  Brihaspate  abhUaster  amunohah  | 
praiyauhatam  Ahind  mrityum  asmad  ievanam  Agne  hhishaja  iaohilMh  \ 
2.  Sam  hramat&m  ma  jihitam  imriram  pranapanau  te  sayujav  iha  statu  \ 
iatam  jiva  iarado  vardhamano  Agnis  te  gopah  adhipah  vasishthah  \  3. 
Ayiw  yat  te  atihitam  pwracliair  apdnah  pranalf  funa/r  a  tav  itdm  \  Agnis 
tad  dhdr  nirriter  v/pasthdt  tad  dtmani  punar  dvesaydmi  te  \  4.  Md 
imam  prdno  hdsld  mo  apdno  amhdya  pard  gat  \  sapta  rishihhyah  enam 
paridaddmi  te  enam  svasti  jarase  vahantu  \  5.  Praviiatam  prandpdndv 
anadmJidv  iva  vrajam  |  ayam  jarimnah  sevadhir  arishtah  iha  vardhatdm  \ 
6.  A  te  prdnam  suvdmasi  para  yahshmam  suvdmi  te  \  dyur  no  visvato 

•u  Compare  the  iiirbs  &Ke9pos  of  Homer, 

«'*  Already  quoted  in  the  section  on  Tama,  p.  312, 

615  Compare  the  section  just  referred  to,  p,  297  ff. 


OE  RECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFE.  443 

dadhad  ay  am  Agnir  varenyah  \    1.   T7d  vayam  tamasas  pari  rohanto 
ndkam  uttamam  |  devarh  devatra  suryam  aganma  jyotw  utiamam  \ 

"1.  Brihaspati,  thou  hast  delivered  us  from  dwelling  in  the  realm 
of  Tama,  from  the  curse.  The  A^vins, — they  who,  o  Agni,  are  the 
two  physicians  of  the  gods, — they  have  repelled  death  from  us  by  their 
powers.  2.  Continue  associated,  ye  two  breaths,  inspired  and  expired  ; 
forsake  not  his  body :  may  they,  united,  remain  with  thee  here.  Live 
prosperously  a  hundred  autumns.  Agni  is  thy  brilHant  protector  and 
lord.  3.  May  thy  life,  which  has  been  dissipated  afar,  may  thy 
breaths,  come  back  to  thee  again.  Agni  has  snatched  it  from  the  lap 
of  Nirriti  (Destruction)  :  and  I  introduce  it  again  into  thyself.  4.  Let 
not  his  inspiration  abandon  him,  nor  his  expiration  quit  him  and 
depart.  I  commit  him  to  the  seven  Eishis ;  may  they  carry  him  on 
in  health  to  old  age.  5.  Enter  into  him,  ye  two  breaths,  like  two 
steers  forcing  their  way  into  a  cow-pen.  May  this  man  flourish  here, 
an  unmolested  depositary  of  old  age.  6.  We  restore  thy  breath.  I 
drive  away  consumption  from  thee.  May  this  excellent  Agni  sustain 
our  life  on  every  side.  7.  Ascending  from  the  darkness  to  the  upper- 
most heaven,  we  have  reached,  among  the  gods,  the  god  Surya,  the 
highest  luminary." 

(11)  Atharva-veda,  Tin.  1. 

1.  Antahdya  mrityave  namah  pranah  apdnah,  iha  te  ramantdm  \ 
ihdyam  astu  purushah  sahdsund  suryasya  Ihdge  amritasya  lake  \  2.  Ud 
enarn  Bhago  agralMd  ud  enam  Somo  amsumdn  \  ud  enam  Maruto  devdh  ud 
Indrdgm  svastaye  \  3.  Iha  te  asur  iha  pranah  ihayur  iha  te  manah  \  ut 
tod  Nirrityah,  pdhhhyo  daivyd  vacha  Ihardmasi  \  4.  UtTcrdma  atah 
pv/rusha  md  'va  patthdh  mrityoh  padhisam  avamunchamdnah  \  md  chhit- 
thdh  asmdl  lokdd  agneh  suryasya  sandriseh  \  5.  Tubhyam  vdtah  pa/oatdm 
mdtariivd  tubhyam  varshantu  amritani  apah  |  suryas  te  tanve  iam 
twpdti  tvdm  mrityur  dayatdm  md  pra  meshthdh  \  6.  Udydnam  te  purusha 
ndvaydnam  jivdtum  te  dalcshatdtim  hrinomi  \  d  hi  rohemam  amritam 
sukham  ratham  at  ha  Jivrir  vidatham  d  vaddsi  \  7.  Md  te  manas  tatra 
gdd  md  tiro  hhud  md  jivebhyalj,  pra  mado  md  'nugdh  pitfin  |  viive  devdh 
abhi  rakshantu  tveha  \  8.  Md  gatdndm  d  dldhlthd^  ye  nayanti  para- 
vatam  \  d  roha  tamaso  jyotir  ehy  o  te  hastau  rabhdmahe  \  9.  S'yamai 


444-  INCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DYING, 

elia  tva  ma  iahalas  cha  preshitau  Yamasya  yau  pathirakshi  ivdnau  |  arvdn 
ehi  ma  vi  dldhya  ma  'tra  tishtha  pa/ranmanah  \  10,  Ma  etam  pantham. 
anu  gah  IMmah  esha  yena  purvarh  na  lyatha  tarn  hravimi  |  tamah  etat 
pwwsha  ma  pra  patthdh  hhayam  parastad  abhayam  te  arvdk  |  11.  Rak- 
shantu  tva  agnayo  ye  apsu  antd  rakshatv,  tod  manushyah  yam  indhate  j 
vaisvdnaro  ralcshatu  jataveddh  divyas  tvd  ma  dhag  vidyuta  saha  \  12. 
Ma  tvd  Icravydd  abhi  mamsta  drdt  sanhasukdt  chara  \  ralishaiu  tvd 
Dyauh  rakshatu  PritMvi  suryaS  cha  tvd  rahhatdm  chandramds  cha  \ 
antariksham  rakshatu  devahetydh  |  13.  Bodhak  cha  tva  Pratlhodhas  cha 
rahshatdm  \  Asvapnas  cha  tvd  Anmad/rdnai  cha  ralcshatdm  \  Gopdyami 
cha  tvd  Jdgrivis  cha  \  14.  Te  tvd  rahhantu  te  tvd  gopdyantu  tehhyo 
namas  tehhyah  svdhd  |  15.  Jivcbhyas  tvd  samude  Vdyur  Indro  Bhdtd 
dadhdtw  Savitd  trdyamdnah  \  ma  tvd  prdno  lalam  hdsld  astm  te  'nu 
hvaydmasi  |  16.  Md  tvd  jamlhah  samhanur  md  tamo  vidad  md  jihvd 
barhih  pramayuh  hathd  %ydh  \  ut  tvd  Aditydh  Vasavo  hharantu  ud 
Indrdgni  svastaye  \  17.  VI  tvd  Byawr  ut  Prithivi  ut  Prajapatir  agra- 
bMt  I  ut  tvd  mrityor  oshadhayo  somardjnir  aplparan  \  18.  Ayam  devdh 
ihaivdstu  ayam  md  'mutra  gdd  itah  \  imam  saha&ravlryena  mrityor 
utpdraydmasi  \  19.  Ut  tvd  mrityor  aplparam  saw,  dhamantu  vayodhasah  \ 
ma  tvd  vyastahesyo  md  tvd  agharudo  rudan  \  20.  Ahdrsham  avidam  tvd 
punar  dgdh  punarnavah  \  sarvdngah  sarvam  te  chakshuh  swrvam  dyui  cha 
te  'vidam  \  21.  Vyavdt  te  jyotir  ahhud  apa  tvat  tamo  ahramlt  \  apa  tvad 
mrityum  nirritim  apa  yalcshmam  ni  dadhmasi  \ 

"1.  Reverence  to  Death  the  Ender  !  May  thy  inhaled  and  exhaled 
breaths  gladly  rest  here.  May  this  man  remain  here  united  with  his 
spirit  in  the  domain  of  the  sun,  in  the  world  of  deathlessness.  2.  Bhaga 
and  Soma  with  his  filaments,  the  divine  Maruts,  Indra,  and  i.gni,  have 
raised  him  up  to  health.  Here  is  thy  spirit,  here  thy  breath,  here  thy 
life,  here  thy  soul.  We  rescue  thee  from  the  bonds  of  Nirriti  by  a 
divine  utterance.  4.  Eise  up  hence,  o  man.  Casting  off  the  fetters  of 
death,  do  not  sink  downward.  Do  not  depart  from  this  world,  from 
the  sight  of  Agni  and  the  Sun.  5.  May  the  Wind,  Matarisvan,  blow 
for  thee ;  may  the  waters  shower  immortality  (or  ambrosia)  on  thee ; 
may  the  S;un  shine  healingly  upon  thy  body  ;  may  Death  pity  thee  ; 
do  not  die.  6.  Thou  must  ascend,  o  man,  and  not  descend ;  I  give 
thee  life  and  perceptive  power.  Mount  this  pleasant  and  imperishable 
car,  then,  when  aged,  thou  shalt  declare  a  festival.    7.  Let  not  thy  soul 


OR  RECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFiE.  445 

go  away  thither,  let  it  not  disappear ;  do  not  wander  away  from  the 
living ;  do  not  follow  the  Fathers.     May  all  the  gods  preserve  thee. 

8.  Do  not  long  after  the  departed,  who  conduct  men  afar.  Ascend 
from  the  darkness ;  come  into  the  light.     We  lay  hold  of  thy  hands. 

9.  Let  not  the  two  dogs  sent  by  Tama,"^  the  black  and  the  brindled 
[seize  thee].  Come  hither ;  do  not  hesitate ;  do  not  remain  here  with 
averted  mind.  10.  Do  not  follow  this  path;  it  is  terrible;  I  speak  of 
that  by  which  thou  hast  not  hitherto  gone.  This,  o  man,  is  darkness ; 
do  not  enter  it.  Beyond,  thou  hast  fear ;  on  this  side,  thou  hast 
security.  11.  May  the  fires  which  are  in  the  waters  preserve  thee; 
may  the  fire  which  men  kindle  preserve  thee ;  may  Jatavedas  Vai^- 
vanara  (the  fire,  which  is  common  to  all  men)  preserve  thee ;  let  not 
the  celestial  fire,  together  with  the  lightning,  consume  thee.  12.  Let 
not  the  flesh-devouring  fire*"  seek  to  harm  thee ;  go  far  from  that 
wicked  one.  May  the  sky,  the  earth,  the  sun,  and  moon,  preserve 
thee;  may  the  air  protect  thee  from  the  bolt  of  the  gods.  13.  May 
Wakeful  and  Watchful,  may  Sleepless  and  Wakeful  preserve  thee. 
May  Guardian,  and  Vigilant  protect  thee.  14.  May  they  protect 
and  guard  thee.  To  them  be  reverence.  15.  May  Vayu,  Indra, 
Dhatri,  and  Savitri  the  deliverer,  restore  thee  to  converse  with  the 
living.  Let  not  breath  and  strength  abandon  thee  ;  we  call  back 
thy  spirit.  16.  Let  not  any  destructive  demon,  let  not  darkness  find 
thee  ....  May  the  Adityas  and  Vasus,  with  Indra  and  Agni,  raise  thee 
up  to  health.  17.  The  sky,  the  earth,  Prajapati  have  rescued  thee. 
The  plants  with  Soma  their  king,  have  delivered  thee  from  death. 
18.  Let  this  man  remain  here,  o  gods  ;  let  him  not  depart  hence  to  the 
other  world.  We  rescue  him  from  death  with  a  charm  of  boundless 
efELcacy.  19.  I  have  delivered  thee  from  death;  may  the  vigorous 
breathe  upon  thee.*'^  Let  not  the  she-devils  with  dishevelled  hair,  or 
those  that  howl  dreadfully,  yeU  at  thee.  20.  I  have  snatched  thee ;  I 
have  caught  thee  ;  thou  hast  returned  renewed,  and  perfect  in  thy 
members  :   I  have  obtained  thy  entire  eye,  and  thy  entire  life.     21. 

«i6  See  A.V.  v.  30,  6,  atove. 

«"  There  are  three  kinds  of  fixe,  the  hrcmyad,  or  funeral  (here  referred  to),  which 
devours  dead  bodies,  the  culinary  {amad),  and  the  sacrificial.  See  the  Vaj.  S.  i.  17, 
and  the  commentary  there,  and  above,  p.  217,  note. 

»i8  See  the  4th  verse  of  the  next  hymn. 


446  INCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DYING, 

[Life]  has  breathed  upon  thee.  Light  has  come  to  thee.  Darkness 
has  departed  from  thee.  We  remove  from  thee  death,  Nirriti  and 
consumption." 

(12)  Atharva-veda,  Tin.  2. 

1.  Arabhasva  imam  amritasya  sruahtm  achhidyamana  jaradashtir 
astu  te  1  muni  te  ayuh  punar  a  hharami  rajas  tamo  mopagah  ma  pra 
meshthdh  \  2.  Jivatam  jyotir  alhyeki  arvan  a  tva  ha/rami  iatasdradaya  \ 
avamunchan  mrityupaian  aiastim  draghiyah  ayuh  prataram  te  dadhdmi  \ 
3.  Vatat  te  prdnam  a/oidam  surydeh  ehahshur  aham  tava  \  yat  te  manas 
tvayi  tad  dhdraydmi  mm  vitsva  angair  vadajihvayd  "lapan  |  4.  Prdnena 
tvd  dvipadafh  chatushpaddm  agnim  iva  jdtam  abhi  sam  dhamdmi  |  namas 
te  mrityo  chahshushe  riamah  prdndya  te  'Tcaram  \  5.  Ayafh  Jivatu  md 
mrita  imam  samlraydmasi  |  krinomi  asmai  bheshajam  mrityo  md  pitru- 
sJiaM  vadhlh  |  6.  Jwalam  naghdrishdrk  jwanttm  oshadhvm  aham  \  traya- 
mdndm  sahamdndm  sahasvattm  iha  huve  asmai  arishtatdtaye  \  7.  Adhi 
hruhi  md  "rabhathdh  sryemam  tavaiva  san  sa/rvahdydh  ihdstu  |  Bha/vd- 
sarvau  mridatam  sarma  yachhatam  apasidhya  durita0t  dhattam  dyuh  | 
8.  Asmai  mrityo  adhi  Iruhi  imam  dayasva  ud  ito  'yam  etu  \  arishtah 
sa/rvdngah  susruj jarasd  katahdyanah  dtmand  hhujam  aknutdm  \  9.  Bevd- 
ndm  hetih  pari  tvd  vrinahtu  pdraydmi  tvd  rajasah  ut  tvd  mrityor  apipa- 
ram  \  drdd  agnim  kravyddam  niruhan  jwdtave  te  paridhim  dadhdmi  \  10. 
Yat  te  niydnam  rajasam  mrityo  ana/oadha/rshyam  \  pathah  imam  tasmdd 
rakshanto  hrahmdsmai  varma  krinmasi  \  11.  Krinomi  te  prdndpanau 
jardm  mrityum  dlfgham  dyuh  svasti  \  Vdivasvatena  prahitdn  yamadu- 
tdmk  charato  'pa  sedhdmi  sarvdn  \  12.  Ardd  ardtim  nirritim  paro 
grdhim  krmyddah  pikdchdn  \  raksho  yat  sarvam  durbhutam  tat  tamah 
ivdpa  kanmasi  |  13.  Agnes  te  prdnam  amritdd  dyushmato  vanve  jdta- 
vedasah  \  yathd  na  rishydh  amritah  sajur  asas  tat  te  krinomi  tad  u  te 
samridhyatdm  \  14.  S'ive  te  stdm  Bydvdprithivl  asantdpe  abhisriyau  \ 
&am  te  suryah  d  tapatu  iam  vdto  vdtu  te  hride  \  S'ivdh  abhi  ksharantu 
tvd  apo  divydh  payasvatih  \  15.  S'ivds  te  santv  oshadhayah  ut  tvd 
"hdrsham  adharasydh  uttardm  prithivim  abhi  \  tatra  tvd  " dityau  raksha- 
tdm  Surydchandramasdv  ubhd  \  16.  Yat  te  vdsah  paridhdnam  yam 
nivim  krinushe  tvam  \  iivam  te  tanve  tat  krinmah  samsparie  'rukshnam 
astu  te  \  17.  Yat  kshurena^  marehayatd  sutejasd  vaptd  vapasi  keSa- 
SmaSru  1  iumhhan  muliham  md  nah  dyuh  pra  mosMht  \  18.  S'ivau  te  stam 


OE  RECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFE.  447 

vriki-yavdv  ahalasdv  adomadhau  \  etau  yakshmam  vi  ladhete  etau  mun- 
chato  amhasah  \  19.  Tad  aSnasi  yat  pibasi  dhanyam  krishyah  pay  ah  \ 
yad  adyam  yad  anadyam  sarvam  te  annam  avisham  krinomi  \  20.  AJine 
cha  tvd  ratraye  cha  ulhahhydm  pari  dadmasi  \  arayelhgo  jighatsuhhyah 
imam  me  pari  rakshata  \  21.  S'ataffi  te  ayutam  hdyandn  dve  yuge  trlni 
chatvari  hrinmah  |  Indrdgni  vihe  devds  te  anumanyantam  ahrimya- 
mdndh  \  22.  S'arade  tvd  hemantdya  vasantaya  grishmdya  pari  dadmasi  \ 
varshdni  tulhyam  syondni  yeshu  vardhante  oshadhih  |  23.  Mrityur  tie 
dvipaddm  mritywr  ise  chatushpadam  |  tasmdt  tvani  mrityor  gopater 
udhharami  sa  md  hiiheh  \  24.  So  'rishta  na  marishyasi  na  marishyasi 
md  libheh  \  na  vai  tatra  mriyante  no  yanti  adhamam  tamah  \  25.  Sarvo 
vai  tatra  jwati  gaur  aivah  purushah  pakih  \  yatredam  Irahma  Tcriyate 
paridhir  jwanaya  Team  \  26.  Pari  tvd  pdtu  samdnehhyo  ahhichdr-dt  m- 
landhubhyah  \  amamrir  bhava  amrito  atijlvo  md  te  hdsishur  asa/vah 
iariram  |  27.  Ye  mrityavah  eka^atarh  yah  ndshtrSh  atitdrydh  |  munch- 
wntu  tasmdt  tvdm  devdh  agner  vaisvanardd  adhi  |  28.  Agneh  ka/riram  asi 
pdrayishnuh  rakshohd  'si  sapatnahd  |  atho  amwa-ehdtanah  putudrur 
ndma  bheshajam  | 

"  1.  Seize  this  boon  of  immortality;  may  long  life,  whicli  cannot  be 
out  off,  be  tbine.  I  restore  to  thee  breath  and  life ;  do  not  depart  to 
the  mist  (rajas)  or  to  darkness  (tamas) ;  do  not  die.  2.  Come  hither 
to  the  light  of  the  living ;  I  rescue  thee  that  thou  mayest  survive  a 
hundred  autumns.  Loosing  the  bands  of  death  and  imprecation,  I 
lengthen  out  thy  existence.  3.  I  have  recovered  thy  breath  from  the 
■wind,  thine  eye  from  the  sun.™  I  place  in  thee  thy  soul.  Eeceive 
sensation  in  thy  limbs.  Speak,  articulating  with  thy  tongue.  4.  I 
blow  upon  thee  with  the  breath  of  bipeds,  and  of  quadrupeds,  as  on 
Agni  when  he  is  born  (i.e.  on  fire  when  kindled).  I  have  paid  rever- 
ence, 0  Death,  to  thine  eye,  and  to  thy  breath.  5.  Let  this  man  live 
and  not  die.  We  restore  him.  I  make  for  him  a  remedy.  Death,  do 
not  kill  the  man.  6.  I  invoke  for  his  safety  a  vivifying  .  .  .  .  ,  living 
delivering,  strong,  and  powerful  plant.  7.  Befriend  him  ;  do  not  seize 
him ;  let  him  go ;  though  he  is  thine  only,  let  him  abide  here  with 
all  his  strength ;  o  Bhava  and  S'arva,  be  gracious  ;  grant  deliverance ; 
remove  evil  and  confer  life.    8.  Befriend  him.  Death,  pity  him  ;  let  him 

'^'  See  above  in  tte  section  on  Yama,  p.  298. 


448  INCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DYING, 

arise.  Fnharmed,  with  all  his  limbs,  hearing  perfectly,  tiU  his  time  of 
decay,  let  him  obtain  enjoyment  daring  a  life  of  a  hundred  years.  9. 
May  the  shaft  of  the  gods  pass  thee  by ;  I  bring  thee  across  from  the  mist 
(see  V.  1);  I  have  rescued  thee  from  death.  Removing  far  away  the  flesh 
devouring  Agni,  I  draw  round  thee  a  circle  (see  E.V.  x.  18,  4)  that 
thou  mayest  live.  10.  Preserving  him  from  that  misty  egress  of  thine, 
0  Death,  which  no  one  may  escape  by  menaces,  we  make  prayer  a  pro- 
tection for  him.  11.  I  give  thee  thy  breaths,  death  at  thy  full  age,^*" 
long  life  and  health.  I  drive  away  all  the  messengers  of  Tama,  who 
roam  about,  sent  by  the  son  of  Vivasvat.  12.  We  remove  afar  Evil, 
Nirriti,  Grahi,  and  flesh-devouring  Pii^achas,  and  hurl  all  wicked 
Rakshases,  as  it  were  into  darkness.  13.  I  ask  thy  life  from  the 
immortal,  living,  Agni,  Jatavedas.  I  procure  that  thou  mayest  suffer 
no  injury,  that  thou  mayest  also  be  immortal.  May  this  be  the  fortu- 
nate result.  14.  May  heaven  and  earth  in  unison  be  auspicious  and 
innocuous  to  thee.  May  the  sun  shine  and  the  wind  blow  pleasantly 
to  thy  heart.  May  the  celestial  streaming  waters  drop  down  upon 
thee  favourably.  15.  May  the  plants  be  auspicious  to  thee.  I  have 
raised  thee  from  the  lower  to  the  upper  earth.  There  may  both  the 
sons  of  Aditi,  the  Sun  and  the  Moon,'''*'  preserve  thee.  16.  Whatever 
garment  for  clothing,  or  whatever  girdle  thou  makest  for  thyself,  we 
cause  it  to  be  agreeable  to  thy  body;  may  it  be  soft  to  thy  touch.  17. 
When,  as  a  barber,  thou  shavest  our  hair  and  beard  with  a  sharp  and 
cleansing  razor,  while  cleansing  our  face,  do  not  rob  us  of  our  life.  18. 
Let  the  rice  and  barley  be  auspicious  to  thee,  causing  no  consumption 
or  other  ailment.  These  two  (grains)  destroy  consumption,  and  deliver 
from  calamity.  19.  Whatever  thou  eatest  or  drinkest,  the  grain  derived 
from  husbandry,  or  liquid,  whatever  is  or  is  not  to  be  eaten — all  that 
food  I  render  for  thee  free  from  poison.  20.  We  commit  thee  to  both 
the  Day  and  the  Night ;  preserve  him  for  me  from  the  goblins  who 
seek  to  devour  him.  21.  We  allot  to  thee  a  hundred,  ten  thousand, 
years,  two,  three,  four,  ages  (yugas).^^''    May  Indra  and  Agni,  may  all 

««»  Compare  A.V.  xix.  24,  4,  6,  8. 

c  The  Moon  is  not  in  the  Vedas  generally  reckoned  among  the  Adityas.  See 
above,  p.  54  f. 

«'^  It  would  be  difiBcult  to  say  how  great  a  duration  is  here  denoted  by  this  word ; 
but  it  must  be  one  of  great  length,  if  the  long  periods  of  years,  which  are  mentioned 
just  before,  may  be  taken  as  any  indication.     See  the  first  toI.  of  this  work,  pp.  46  f. 


OK  EECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFE.  449 

the  gods  regard  thee  favourably,  without  hostility.  22,  "We  commit 
thee  to  autumn,  winter,  spring,  summer.  May  the  rains  be  pleasant  to 
thee,  in  which  the  plants  grow  up.  23.  Death  rules  over  bipeds ; 
death  rules  over  quadrupeds.  From  that  Death  the  ruler  I  rescue 
thee ;  do  not  fear.  24.  Thou,  who  art  uninjured,  shalt  not  die ;  thou 
shalt  not  die ;  do  not"  fear.  They  do  not  die  there ;  they  do  not  go  to 
the  nethermost  darkness,  (25)  every  thing  lives  there,  cow,  horse,  man, 
beast,  in  the  place  where  this  prayer  is  used,  the  bulwark  of  life.  26. 
May  it  preserve  thee  from  curse  from  thy  equals  and  friends.  Be 
imdying,  immortal,  long-lived ;  let  not  thy  breaths  abandon  thy  body. 
27.  May  the  gods  deliver  thee  from  those  hundred  deaths,  from  those 
dangers  which  are  surpassable,  and  from  that  Agni  Vaisvanara  (fire  of 
the  funeral  pile  ?).  28.  Thou,  the  medicament  named  Piitudru  (Butea 
frondosa),  art  the  body  of  Agni,  the  deHverer,  the  slayer  of  Kakshases, 
and  of  rivals,  and  thou  art  the  chaser  away  of  diseases." 


20 


450 


SECTION    XXIII. 

BRIEF   NQJES  ON   SOCIETY  AND    LIFE  IN   THE  VEDIC  AGE,   AS 
EEPEESENTED   IN   THE   HYMNS. 

Im  the  Introductions  to  the  first  three  Volumes  of  his  translation 
of  the  Kig-veda  (vol.  i.  pp.  xl  ff. ;  vol.  ii.  pp.  xv  ff. ;  vol.  iii.  xiv  ff.), 
Professor  Wilson  has  adduced  from  the  hymns  a  variety  of  facts  illus- 
trative of  the  social  and  political  condition  of  the  people  of  India,  and 
of  the  advance  which  they  had  made  in  civilization  at  the  period  when 
those  hymns  were  composed.  I  propose  in  this  section  to  hring  for- 
ward such  further  particulars,  connected  with  the  same  subjects,  as  I 
have  noticed  in  the  hymns,  without  excluding  the  topics  already  eluci- 
dated by  Professor  "Wilson. 

It  is  not  only  the  facts  which  are  directly  stated  or  implied,  in 
regard  to  the  various  subjects  of  inquiry,  which  may  be  understood  as 
supplying  the  requisite  information.  References  of  a  corresponding 
character  made  to  the  gods,  their  dwellings,  dress,  ornaments,  chariots, 
weapons,  etc.,  may  (as  in  such  a  stage  of  religious  progress,  more 
especially,  men  frame  their  gods  after  their  own  image  magnified  and 
idealized)  be  taken  as  applicable,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  their  worshippers. 

(1.)   Country  occupied  hy  the  Vedie  people,  their  villages  and  cities. 

The  country  originally  occupied  in  India  by  the  Vedic  people  was  the 
tract  watered  by  the  seven  rivers,  the  modern  Panjab  ;  but  they  gradu- 
ally extended  themselves  to  the  eastward  and  southward ;  and  in  R.V. 
iv.  36,  18  reference  is  made  to  two  enemies  living  beyond  {i.e.  no  doubt 
east  of)  the  Sarayu  {uta  tya  sadyah  aryd  Sarayor  Indra  paratah  Arna- 
ehitraratha  'vadhlh).  For  details  I  refer  to  the  second  volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  373  if.  This  country  was  no  doubt  in  part  cultivated, 
as  we  shall  see  that  frequent  references  are  made  to  agriculture.     But 


EELIGIOUS  "WORSHIP.  451 

probably  large  tracts  were  covered  by  forests,  wbicli  are  sometimes 
referred  to.  See  the  references  to  Agni  consuming  the  woods,  above 
(p.  212)  ;  and  the  hymn  to  Aranyani,  quoted  in  p.  422. 

As  in  our  own  day,  in  the  north-west  provinces  of  India  and  the 
Panjab,  the  houses,  in  places  remote  from  the  hills,  and  where  the  soil 
is  alluvial,  without  any  supply  of  stone,  were  no  doubt  constructed  of 
mud.''"  VUlages  (grama)  are  mentioned  in  R.V.  i.  114,  1  (visvam 
pushtam  asmin  grame  anaturam  \  "  may  everything  in  this  village  be 
fat  and  healthy") ;  i.  44,  10  [asi  grameshw  avita  |  "  Thou  (Agni)  art 
the  protector  in  (our)  villages");  i.  149,  4  {gavah  wa  gramam  |  "as 
cattle  come  to  a  village") ;  and  x.  146,  1  quoted  above. 

Cities  or  fortified  places  (^w)  are  also  constantly  mentioned.  In 
one  place  it  is  said  that  Indra  demolished  a  hundred  cities  of  stone  in 
favour  of  the  liberal  Divodasa,  iv.  30,  20,  that  {satam  a^manmayindm 
puram  Indro  vi  dsyat  \  Bivodasaya  dasushe).  Even  if  we  should  suppose 
this  was  a  mythological  reference  to  the  aerial  cities  of  the  Asmas 
(comp.  X.  67,  3),  it  might  be  received  as  evidence  that  they  had  as 
their  prototypes  stone-built  cities  on  the  earth,  a  circumstance  in  itself 
by  no  means  improbable  in  tracts  of  country  bordering  on  the  hills, 
where  stone  is  abundant.  Iron  cities  or  fortifications  (^purah  dyasih) 
are  mentioned  in  R.V-  i.  58,  8 ;  ii.  20,  8 ;  iv.  27,  1  ;  vii.  3,  7  ; 
vii.  15,  14;  vii.  95,  1;  viii.  89,  8;  x.  101,  8,  where  the  reference  is 
either  figurative  or  purely  fanciful  and  mythological.  Cities  with  a 
hundred  enclosures  or  fortifications  {iatahhuji)  are  referred  to  in 
i.  166,  8;  vii.  15,  14;  and  although  they  are  only  alluded  to  as  figu- 
rative expressions  of  the  means  of  protection  afforded  by  the  gods,  they 
no  doubt  suggest  the  idea  of  forts,  consisting  apparently  of  a  series  of 
concentric  walls,  as  actually  existing  in  the  country  at  the  time. 

(2)  Religious  worship. 

Let  the  reader  try  to  conceive  himself  as  living  3000  years  ago  or 
upwards  in  the  province  of  India  which  has  been  above  described. 
At  that  period  the  Indo-Aryans  had  for  some  time  been  settled  in  that 


«"'  Bricks  [ishtaka)  are  frequently  mentioned  in  the  Brahmanas  as  used  for  tie 
construction  of  vedis,  or  altars,  but  they  may  have  been  unbaked. 


452  RELIGIOUS  -WORSHIP. 

region,  and  had  begun  to  consider  it  as  tteir  home,  though  they  were 
stUl  molested  by  the  barbarous  tribes  of  another  stock,  and  of  a  ruder 
religion,  who  had  been  previously  in  possession  of  the  country,  and 
naturally  looked  upon  the  intruders  with  dislike  and  dread.  Conscious 
of  their  own  superiority,  and  strong  in  their  faith  in  the  protection  of 
their  ancestral  gods,  the  Aryans  regarded  these  aboriginal  tribes  and 
their  savage  rites  and  character  with  abhorrence  not  unmingled  with 
apprehension.  "We  shall  therefore  suppose  one  of  the  small  outlying 
village  settlements  of  the  Aryans  to  be  situated  on  the  edge  of  a  forest, 
part  of  which  has  been  cut  down,  cleared,  and  cultivated.  The  popu- 
lation has  already  multiplied  to  a  considerable  extent,  and  (as  we  shaU 
see  further  on)  a  division  of  labour  has  been  long  established.  The 
more  thoughtful  and  contemplative  class  has  now  devoted  itself  to  the 
worship  of  the  gods ;  the  more  enterprizing  and  warlike  members  of  the 
community  have  assumed  authority  over  the  rest ;  the  great  mass  of 
the  people  follow  the  occupations  of  trade  and  husbandry;  while  a 
gradually  increasing  number  of  the  adjoining  barbarians  is  becoming 
incorporated  in  the  growing  society  as  slaves  or  handicraftsmen  of  the 
lowest  description. 

Eeturning  home  in  the  evening  through  the  forest,  a  member  of  one 
of  the  priestly  families,  who  is  at  the  same  time  of  a  poetical  tempera- 
ment, experiences  emotions  such  as  are  sketched  in  the  hymn  to 
Aranyani,  which  is  (juoted  above  in  p.  422.  Anxious  to  propitiate 
the  favour  of  the  gods,  and  to  worship  them  all  with  the  customary 
ceremonies,  he  is  frequently  found  watching  during  the  night  (not  with- 
out apprehension  of  attack  from  the  aboriginal  tribes  lurking  in  the 
adjoining  thickets,  or  from  the  howling  goblins  vnth  which  his  imagi- 
nation peoples  the  surrounding  darkness),  and  looking  for  the  signs  by 
which  he  supposes  the  earliest  appearance  of  the  deities  who  usher 
in  the  day  to  be  indicated.  The  hymns  which  are  addressed  to  these 
divinities,  the  two  Asvins  and  to  Ushas  (the  Dawn),  at  least  those 
which  salute  the  arrival  of  the  latter,  do  not  spring  from  devotion 
alone,  but  are  the  product  of  a  deep  poetical  feeling,  and  a  delicate 
imaginative  power.  The  Asvins  are  the  first  to  appear,  the  time  of 
their  manifestation  being  (as  we  have  seen,  p.  234)  defined  as  that 
between  midnight  and  the  earliest  manifestation  of  light;  and  their 
supposed  advent  is  hailed  with  suitable  hymns.     Then,  as  the  first 


DID  THE  VEDIC  INDIANS  MAKE  IMAGES  OF  THEIR  GODS  ?     453 

streaks  of  the  ruddy  dawn  become  visible  in  the  east,  the  poet  breaks  . 
out  into  an  enthusiastic  burst  of  devotion  to  the  lovely  goddess  TJshas, 
who  every  morning  renews  her  youth.  Preparation  is  now  made  for  the 
birth  of  the  sacred  Agni,  who  springs  into  life  as  soon  as  the  physical 
instruments  of  his  generation  are  brought  into  contact,  is  then  duly 
lauded  by  his  votary,  and  is  imagined  immediately  to  proceed  as  a  mes- 
senger to  summon  the  gods  to  whom  sacrifice  is  to  be  offered  by  their 
worshipper.  Soon  after  Surya  (the  sun)  shoots  up  above  the  horizon, 
darting  his  rays  across  the  firmament,  and  illuminating  everything 
with  his  splendour ;  and  receives,  under  a  variety  of  forms  or  epithets, 
the  adoration  of  the  delighted  poet.  In  the  hot  season,  when  the 
ground  has  been  parched  by  long  drought,  and  all  eyes  are  turned  to 
the  gathering  clouds  in  the  hope  that  they  will  soon  discharge  their 
watery  treasures,  Parjanya,  the  raingod,  is  besought  to  send  rain ;  and 
Indra,  the  regent  of  the  firmament,  and  the  storm-gods,  the  Maruts, 
are  supplicated  to  fulfil  the  functions  which  the  imagination  of  their 
worshippers  has  assigned  to  them,  of  combating  the  malignant  demons 
of  the  atmosphere,  and  compelling  them  to  yield  up  the  waters  which 
they  keep  shut  up  in  the  clouds.  The  other  gods,  or  a  select  number 
of  them,  are  then  invoked.  Along  with  the  recitation  of  hymns  and 
prayers,  various  sorts  of  oblations  are  offered  up  at  different  periods 
of  the  day,  to  the  several  deities. 

(3)  Bid  the  Vedie  Indians  make  images  of  their  gods  ? 

Professor  Muller  (Chips  from  a  German  "Workshop,  i.  38)  answers 
this  question  in  the  negative.  "  The  religion  of  the  Veda,"  he  says, 
"  knows  of  no  idols.  The  worship  of  idols  in  India  is  a  secondary 
formation,  a  later  degradation  of  the  more  primitive  worship  of  ideal 
gods."  On  the  other  hand.  Dr.  Bollensen  finds  in  the  hymns  clear 
references  to  images  of  the  gods  (Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society,  xxii.  587  ff.).  He  writes,  "From  the  common  appellation  of 
the  gods  as  divo  naras,  '  men  of  the  sky,'  or  simply  naras  (lares  ?), 
'  men,'  and  from  the  epithet  nj-ipesas,*^  '  having  the  form  of  men,' 
E.Y.  iii.  4,  5,  we  may  conclude  that  the  Indians  did  not  merely  in 

6M  Professor  Eoth  s.v.  says  that  according  to  Sayana  the  word  means  "having  the 
form  of  men,"  hut  perhaps  signifies  "formed,  or  adorned  by  men." 


454  KINGS  AND  PRINCIPALITIES. 

imagination  assign  human  forms  to  their  gods,  but  also  represented 
them  in  a  sensible  manner.  Thus  in  E.V.  ii.  33,  9,  a  painted  image  of 
Eudra  is  described  :  sthirebhir  nngaih  ptirurupah  ugrah  halhruk  iukre- 
hhilj,  pipise  hirmyaih  \  'With  strong  limbs,  many -formed,  awful, 
brown,  he  is- painted  with  shining  golden  colours.'  E.V.  i.  25,  13 
(where  it  is  said  of  Varuna,  that,  'wearing  a  golden  coat  of  mail,  he 
veils  himself  in  his  radiance;  spies  sit  round  him'),  appears  also  to 
refer  to  a  sensible  representation."  .  .  .  .  "Still  clearer  appears  the 
reference  to  representations  in  the  form  of  an  image  in  v.  52,  15 :  nix 
mamdnah  eshSm  devdn  ascha  (the  editions  of  Professor  Miiller  and 
Aufrecht  both  read  aohha)  |  '  I  now  pray  to  the  gods  of  these  (Maruts).' 
Here  it  seems  that  the  Maruts  are  distinguished  from  their  gods,  i.e. 
from  their  images."  .  .  .  .."Besides  the  common  expression  vapus, 
tanu,  rupa  ['body'  and  'form'],  there  is  in  the  oldest  language  one 
which  properly  denotes  an  image  of  the  gods,  viz.,  sandri^."  Much 
more  is  added  in  support  of  the  same  view.  It  is  perhaps  premature 
to  attempt  to  decide  on  the  validity  of  these  proofs  till  it  is  seen  what 
can  be  urged  on  the  opposite  side. 

(4)  Kings  and  principalities. 

Kings  are  frequently  mentioned  in  the  hymns,  i.  40,  8 ;  i.  126,  1 ; 
iii.  43,  5 ;  v.  37,  4;  x.  33,  4,  etc.  In  i.  85,  8,  the  Maruts  are  said  to 
be  of  awful  aspect,  like  kings  {rajan&h  iva  tvesha-sandri^ah).  The 
country  occupied  by  the  Aryas  was  no  doubt  peopled  by  various 
tribes ''^^  and  divided  into  numerous  principalities.  In  E.V.  i.  126,  1, 
a  king  called  Bhavya  is  celebrated,  who  dwelt  on  the  banks  of  the 
Sindhu,  or  Indus  {amanddn  stomdn  prabhar4  manishd  Sindhav  adhi 
kshiyato  Bhdvyasya  \  yo  me  sahasram  amimita  savdn  aturto  rdjd  irmah 
ichhamanah).  In  viii.  21,  18,  Chitra  and  other  chiefs  are  alluded  to  as 
living  near  the  Sarasvati  (  Chitrah  id  raja  rdjakah  anyahe  yoke  Sarasva- 
tlm  anu).  Ten  kings  are  alluded  to  as  having  fought  against  Sudas, 
vii.  33,  3 ;  vii.  83,  6  ff.  (see  the  Ist  vol,  of  this  work,  pp.  319,  323  f ), 
Numerous  names  of  kings  occur  in  the  Eig-veda.  The  meetings) 
whether  friendly  or  hostile,  of  princes  are  alluded  to,  x.  97,  6  {rajdnah 
va).     In  vii.  18,   2,   Indra  is  represented  as  living  in  the 

»"  See  Eoth,  Zur  Litteratur  und  GescUclite  des  Weda,  pp.  131  ff. 


KINGS  AND  PRINCIPALITIES.  455 

society  of  his  wives  like  a  king,  or  dwelling  amid  lights,  as  a  king 
among  his  wives,  as  Sayana  explains :  {rajeva  hijanibhih  kshesld  eva  ava 
dyulhih),  which  appears  to  indicate  the  existence  of  royal  polygamy. 
In  X.  40,  3,  the  A^vins  are  said  to  come  to  the  libations  like  two 
kings'  sons  {rajaputreva  savana  'va  gaehhatah).  When  Mitra  and 
Varuna  are  represented  in  ii.  41,  5 ;  v.  62,  6,  and  vii.  88,  5  (see  above, 
p".  60),  as  occupying  a  great  palace  with  a  thousand  pillars  and  a 
thousand  gates,  we  may  suppose  that  this  is  but  an  exaggerated 
description  of  a  royal  residence,  such  as  the  poets  had  seen.'''^  And 
in  the  same  way  we  may  imagine  that  the  description  of  Yaruna  in 
i.  25,  10,  13  (above,  p.  59),  as  sitting  in  his  house,  arrayed  in  golden 
mail  or  raiment,  surrounded  by  his  messengers  and  exercising  sove- 
reignty, was  suggested  by  the  ceremonial  of  a  contemporary  Eaja's 
court.  It  appears  from  E.Y.  iv.  50,  8  (quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this 
work,  p.  247),  that  it  was  regarded  as  eminently  beneficial  for  a  king 
to  entertain  a  family  priest:  and  in  point  of  fact  we  find  that  the 
liberality  of  difierent  princes  to  the  rishis  or  priests  by  whom  they 
were  attended  is  celebrated  in  numerous  passages  (see  the  1st  vol.  of 
this  work,  p.  259,  and  my  article  "  On  the  relations  of  the  priests 
to  the  other  classes  of  Indian  society  in  the  Vedic  age,"  Journal  of 
the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society,  for  1866,  pp.  272  flf.,  where  the  names  of 
numerous  royal  patrons  are  specified).  The  amount  and  variety  of 
the  presents  lavished  by  these  kings  upon  their  spiritual  advisers,  con- 
sisting of  cows,  sometimes  amounting  to  thousands  (v.  30,  12  S.), 
horses,  chariots,  lumps  of  gold  (vi.  47,  23),  dresses  {da^asvdn  dasa 
Twsan  dasa  vastra  'dhMojand  |  daso  hiranyapindan  Divodasdd  asdni- 
sham  I  daia  ralhdn  prashtimatah  katam  gdh  atharvabhyah  Asvathah 
Paya/oe  'daddt),  and  elegantly-adorned  female  slaves  (viii.  46,  33,  adha 
syd  yosJiand  mahi  pratlohl  Vaiam  ASvyam  \  adhvruhmd  vi  niyate),  even 
although'  we  should  suppose, — as  we  probably  must, — that  there  is  a 
great  amount  of  exaggeration  in  the  passages  referred  to,  viz.,  i.  126, 
1  ff. ;  V.  27,  2 ;  v.  30,  12  ff. ;  v.  33,  8  ff. ;  v.  61,  10  ;  vi.  27,  8  ;  vi. 
47,  22  ff. ;  vi.  63,  9  f . ;  vii.  18,  22  ff.  ;  viii.  3,  21  ff.  ;  viii.  4,  19  ff. ; 
viii.  5,  37  ff. ;  viii.  6,  46  ff. ;  viii.  19,  36  f. ;  viii.  21,  17  f. ;  viii.  24, 
29  f  ;  viii.  46,  21  ff.  ;  viii.  54,  10  ff.  ;   viii.  67,  14  ;  x.  33,  4  ff.  ;  :x. 

62'  A.V.  iii,  12,  and  ix.  3  contain  prayers  for  the  stability  of  a  house  at  the  time  of 
its  construction. 


456,  KINGS  AND  PEINCIPALITIES, 

&2,  6  ff. ;  X.  93,  14  f.,  is  still  a  proof  that  very  considerable  wealth 
was  possessed  by  these  princes.  One  chieftain,  Ka^u,  son  of  Chedi, 
is  even  said  to  have  given  to  the  rishi  ten  kings,  brilliant  as  gold,  viii. 

5,  38  {yo  me  hiranya-sandriko  dam  rdj'no  amamhata). 

Towards  the  close  of  the  Eig-veda  two  hymns  occur  (x.  173  and  174) 
in  which  blessings  are  invoked  on  a  king.  I  shall  quote  the  first,  x.  173 : — 

\.  A  tva  ^harsham  antar  edhi  dhrwoas  tishthavichachalih  \  vUas  tvd 
sarvdh  vanehantu  md  tvad  rdshtram  adhi  hhraiat  \  2.  Ihaivaidhi  mapa 
chyoshtTidh  pa/rvatah  ivdchdchalih  \  Indrah  iveha  dhruvas  Ushtha  iha 
rdshtram  u  dhdraya  \  3.  Imam  Indro  adidharad  dhrmam  dhnmena 
havishd  \  tasmai  Soma  adhi  hravat  tasmai  u  Brahmanaspatih  |  4.  Dhrtwd 
Ayawr  dhruvd  prithivl  dhruvdsah  parvatdh  ime  |  dhruvam  vUvam  idarh 
jagad  dhrv/oo  rdjd  visdm  ayam  \  5.  Dhruvam  te  rdjd  Varuno  dhruvam 
devo  Brihaspatih  \  dhruvam  te  Indrai  cha  AgnU  cha  rdshtraih  dhdraya- 
tdm  dhrwoam  \  6.  Dhrmam  dhruvena  havishd  ahhi  Somam  mriidmasi  | 
atho  te  Indrah  kevalir  vi^o  halihritas  karat  \ 

"I  have  brought  thee  forward;  remain  in  the  midst;  continue  firm 
and  immovable ;  may  all  thy  subjects  desire  thee !  may  thy  dominion 
not  fall  away  from  thee  !  2.  Remain  here  ;  do  not  fall ;  continue  im- 
movable as  a  mountain ;  abide  here  as  firm  as  Indra ;  support  here  the 
realm.  3.  Indra  with  a  firm  oblation  has  held  him  firm ;  may  Soma, 
may  Brahmanaspati,  take  his  part.  4.  Krm  is  the  sky,  firm  the 
earth,  firm  these  hills,  firm  is  the  whole  world,  and  this  prince  is  a 
firmly-established  king  over  his  subjects.  5.  May  king  Varuna,  may 
the  divine  Brihaspati,  may  Indra  and  Agni  firmly  maintain  thy  rule ! 

6.  "W"e  urge  the  firm  Soma  with  a  firm  oblation.  And  now  may  Indra 
make  thy  subjects  devoted  to  thee  alone,  and  bringers  of  tribute." 

Mention  is  also  made  of  rulers  or  governors  under  the  title  of  pur- 
pati,  lord  of  a  city  or  fortified  place  (i.  173,  10),  and  gramani  ruler  of 
a  village,  or  tribe,  or  band  of  men.  The  latter  word  occurs  in  x.  62, 
11 :  sahasraddh  grdmanlr  ma  rishan  manuh  suryendaya  yatamdnd  etu 
dahhind  |  "  Let  not  this  man  (Savarni),  the  leader  of  the  people,  suffer 
calamity:  let  his  largess  extend  to  the  sun;"^"  and  in  x.  107,  5, 
dakshindvdn  grdmanlr  agram  eti  \  "The  bestower  of  largesses  walks 
in  the  front  as  a  leader"  (see  above,  p.  434). 

«"  See  the  context  in  my  paper  on  the  priests  in  the  Vedio  age,  Jour.  E.A.S.  for 
1866,  p.  276. 


DOMESTIC  EELATIOKS  AND  LIFE  AND  MORALS.  457 

(5)  Different  ranks  in  society, — rich  and  poor. 

As  may  be  concluded  from  the  facts  already  stated,  we  find  in  the 
hymns  a  distinct  reference  to  rich  and  poor  as  existing  in  the  com- 
munity. See  E.V.  x.  117,  quoted  above  in  page  431,  where  the 
existence  of  both  classes  is  distinctly  recognized,  and  liberality  on  the 
part  of  the  wealthy  is  recommended.  In  x.  107,  10,,  the  house  of  the 
donor  of  largesses  is  compared  to  a  lotus  pond,  and  is  said  to  be  em- 
bellished like  a  palace  of  the  gods  (above,  p.  434,  and  compare  x.  135, 
7).  In  viii.  4,  9,  the  man  who  is  a  friend  of  Indra  is  said  to  have 
horses,  chariots,  cows  ;  to  be  handsome,  to  enjoy  vigorous  vitality,  and 
to  come  resplendent  into  the  assembly  (ahi  rathl  smupah  id  goman  id 

Indra  te  sakhd  |  ivatrabhaja  vayasd  saohate  sadd  chandro  ydti  sahham 
■apa). 

(6)  Domestic  relations  and  life  and  morals. 

There  are  in  the  hymns  distinct  traces  of  the  existence  of  polygamy, 
though  it  was  no  doubt  the  exception,  and  monogamy  the  rule.  In 
some  places  the  husband  appears  to  be  described  as  having  only  one 
wife,  if  we  may  judge  from  the  fact  that  the  latter  is  mentioned  in  the 
singular.  Thus  in  i.  124,  7,  Ushas  is  said  to  display  her  form,  as  if 
smiling,  as  a  loving  and  well-dressed  wife  does  to  her  husband  (Jay a 
iva  patye  uiati  swasdh  ITsMh  hasrd  iva  ni  rinite  apsa^ ;  compare  iv.  3, 
2,  and  x.  71,  4).  And  in  i.  105,  2,  it  is  said  a  jdyd  yuvate  patim  \ 
"  The  wife  embraces  her  husband."  In  other  places  a  plurality  of 
wives  is  more  or  less  distinctly  intimated.  Thus  in  i.  62,  11 :  patim 
na  patnir  usatlr  uiantam  sprisanti  tvd  ia/oasdvan  manuhdh  \  "  Our 
hymns  touch  thee,  o  strong  god,  as  loving  wives  a  loving  husband;" 
i.  71,  1  :  upa  pra  j'invann  uiatir  uiantam  patim  na  nityam  j'anayah 
sanilah  \  svasdrah  \  "  The  loving  sisters  [i.e.  fingers]  have  stirred  up 
the  loving  [Agni],  as  wives  dwelling  together  their  own  husbands ;"  ^^* 
i.  105,  8  (  =  x.  33,  2):  sam  md  tapanti  abhitah  sapatnir  iva  parimah  \ 
"  My  ribs"  (or,  according  to  the  Mrukta  and  Sayana,  the  sides  of  the 
well)  "  press  painfully  on  me  all  around,  like  rival  wives  (literally, 

629  I  should  observe  that  both  Sayana  and  Professor  Benfey  constrne  the  epithet 
sanilah  "dwelling  together,  or  in  one  house"  with  avasarah  "  the  sisters,"  and  not 
■mth Jana^ah  "wives." 


458  DOMESTIC  EELATIONS  AND  LIFE  AND  MOEALS. 

co-wives);"  i.  186,  7:  tam  im  giro  janayo  na  patnlh  mrahhishtamaih 
naraih  nasanta  \  "  Hymns  haste  to  him  the  most  pleasing  of  heroes,  as 
■women  who  are  wives  ; "  vii.  26,  3 :  j'amr  iva  patir  ehah  samano  ni 
mamrije  purah  Indrah  su  smrvah  |  "  Indra  took  to  him  all  the  cities,  as 
(one)  common  husband  his  wives ; "  x.  43,  1  :  pari  sJwajante  janayo 
yatha  patim  \  "  [The  hymns]  embrace  [Indra]  as  wives  a  husband." 
The  S'atap.  Br.  ix  1,  4,  6,  distinctly  avows  the  principle  of  polygamy, 
and  states  the  origin  of  the  practice  after  its  own  fashion :  Pumse  purva- 
smai  juhoti  atha  stribhyah  \  pumdmsaffi  tad-viryem  atyadaihati  |  ekas- 
mai  iva  pumse  juhoti  lahvlbhyah  iva  stribhyah  \  tasmdd  apy  ekasya 
pumso  lahvyo  jdyah  hhavanti  \  ubhalhyam  vashatharena  cha  svahaka/rem 
cha  pufhse  juhoti  svdhaMrena  eva  stribhyah  \  pumdmsam  eva  tad-viryena 
atyddadhati  \  "  He  sacrifices  to  the  man  first,  then  to  the  women.  He 
exalts  the  man  in  consequence  of  his  vigour.  He  sacrifices  to  the  man 
as  to  one,  and  to  the  women  as  to  many.  Hence  also  one  man  has 
many  wives.  He  sacrifices  to  the  man  both  with  the  vashatkara  and 
the  Bvahakara,  to  the  women  with  the  latter  alone.  He  exalts  the 
man  in  consequence  of  his  vigour."  It  seems  to  have  been  considered 
a  misfortune  for  a  woman  to  be  left  an  old  maid  in  her  father's  house 
(see  the  case  of  Ghosha,  above,  p.  247).  It  would  lead  me  too  far  to 
attempt  to  give  any  description  of  the  marriage  ceremonial,  for  which 
I  must  refer  the  reader  to  Weber's  Indische  Studien,  v.  177  ff.  (see 
also  R.V.  X.  109).  "Women  appear  to  have  been  permitted  to  marry 
a  second  time,  according  to  A.V.  ix.  5,  27  f.,  quoted  above,  in  the 
section  on  Yama,  p.  306  (see  also  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  281  ff.). 
In  i.  124,  7,  TJshas  is  said  to  show  herself,  as  a  female,  without  a 
brother  (her  natural  protector),  is  said  to  show  herself  to  a  man  {abhra- 
teva  pumse  eti  pratlchi).  Wicked  liars  are  compared,  in  iv.  5,  5,  to 
women  without  brothers,  and  evil- disposed  wives  hostile  to  their  hus- 
bands {abhrdtaro  na  yoshano  vyantah  patiripo  na  janayo  durevdh  |  pdpd- 
sah  santah  anritdh  asatyah  idam  padam  ajanata  gabhiram). 

The  eleventh  and  twelfth  verses  of  E.V.  x.  27,  are  as  follows : — 
yasydnakshd  duhita  jatu  dsa  Teas  tdm  vidvdn  abhimanyeta  andhdm  \ 
hata/ro  menim  prati  tam  muehdte  yah  im  vahdte  yah  im  va  vareydt  \  12. 
Iciyati  yosha  maryato  vadhuyoh  paripritd  panyasa  varyena  |  bhadrd 
vadhur  bhavati  yat  supesah  svayaih  sd  mitram  vanute  jane  chit  |  11.  "Who 
knowingly  will  desire  the  blind  daughter  of  any  man  who  has  one  ? 


DOMESTIC  RELATIONS  AND  LIFE  AND  MORALS.  459 

Or  who  ■will  hurl  a  javelin  at  him  who  carries  oflf  or  woos  such  a 
female  ?  12.  Hovf  many  a  -woman  is  satisfied  with  the  great  wealth 
of  him  who  seeks  her  !  Happy  is  the  female  who  is  handsome  :  she 
herself  loves  [or  chooses]  her  friend  among  the  people."  May  we  not 
infer  from  this  passage  that  freedom  of  choice  in  the  selection  of 
their  hushands  was  allowed,  sometimes,  at  least,  to  women  in  those 
times  ?  The  Svayamvara,  or  selection  of  ther  own  husbands  by  kings' 
daughters,  appears,  from  the  Mahahharata,  to  have  been  a  common  prac- 
tice in  later  times.     See  the  well-known  story  of  Nala  and  Damayanti. 

A  passage  has  been  quoted  above  (p.  82  note)  from  the  Taitt.  Br. 
ii.  4,  2,  7,  the  commencement  of  which,  though  not  altogether  clear, 
may  be  translated  thus :  "  The  divine  and  fortunate  Indrani,  wife  of 
an  excellent  husband,  was  victorious  by  a  part,  in  the  acquisition  of  a 
husband."     Did  young  women  at  that  time  compete  for  husbands  ? 

The  following  allusion  to  the  relations  of  a  widow  with  her  deceased 
husband's  brother  occurs  in  a  verse  addressed  to  the  Asvins,  x.  40,  2 
(=Mr.  iii.  15) :  Kiiha  svid  dosha  kuha  vastor  Aivma  kuhahhipitvaih, 
karatah  kuhoshatah  \  ko  vam  iayutrd  vidhaveva  devaram,  maryam  na 
yosha  krinute  sadasthe  a  \  "  Where  are  you  by  night,  Asvins,  and 
where  by  day  ?  where  do  you  alight  ?  where  have  you  dwelt  ?  who 
draws  you  to  his  house,  as  a  widow  does  her  brother-in-law  to  the 
couch,  or  as  a  woman  does  a  man  ?"  In  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta, 
p.  32,  Professor  Koth  refers,  in  elucidation  of  this  comparison,  to  Manu, 
ix.  69,  70,  where  it  is  enjoined  that  in  certain  circumstances  a  widow 
shall  be  married  to  her  deceased  husband's  brother.  In  verse  60  it 
is  ruled  that  the  union  shall  only  subsist  until  one  son  has  been  pro- 
created. It  will  thus  be  seen  that  the  ancient  law  of  India  corre- 
sponded in  this  respect  with  that  of  the  Jews,  as  expounded  in  Deu- 
teronomy, XXV.  5  :  compare  St.  Matthew,  xxii.  24  ff.  This  custom 
appears  to  be  referred  to  in  the  somewhat  obscure  verse  before  us. 

By  the  kindness  of  Professor  Max  MiiUer  I  am  enabled  to  give 
Sayana's  explanation  of  the  verse : — Kineha  vam  yuvam  ko  yajamanah 
"sadhasfhe"  sahasthdne  vedy-akhye  "  akrinute"  \  paricharanartham 
atmahhimukhlkaroH  \  tatra  driihtantam  dariayati  \  "  ^wjutra"  say  am 
"vidhaveva"  yatha  mritalhartrika  ndri  "devaram"  hhartrilhrataram 
alMmuhhikaroH  |  "maryam  na"  yatha  cha  sarvam  manmhyaih  "yosha" 
sarvd  ndri  sambhoga-kale  'bhimukhikaroti  tadvad  ity  arthah  \  "what 


460  DOMESTIC  I^ELATIOJTS  AND  LIFE  AND  MOEALS. 

worshipper  places  you  in  his  own  presence  at  the  altar  to  serve  you? 
He  illustrates  this.  As  a  woman  whose  husband  is  dead  places  her 
husband's  brother  before  her  on  the  bed,  or  a  woman  at  the  time  of 
sexual  connection  places  a  man  before  her."  Then  follows  a  quotation 
from  the  Nirukta  iii.  15,  on  the  same  verse. 

On  the  occasion  of  the  marriage  ceremonial,  a  wish  is  expressed  in 
the  bride's  favour  that  she  may  be  a  queen  over  her  father-in-law,  her 
mother-in-law,  her  husband's  sister,  and  his  brothers,  x.  85,  46  {Bamrajni 
svaiwre  hhava  samrajnl  svasrvam  bhava  \  nanandari  samrajnl  Ihava  sam- 
rajm  adhi  devrishu).  In  viii.  2,  20  reference  is  made  to  an  unamiable  son- 
in-law  {aSnrah  ivajam&ta) ;  but  it  is  not  very  clear  what  he  is  intended' 
to  illustrate.  In  i.  109,  2,  the  poet  says  he  has  heard  that  Indra  and 
Agni  are  more  liberal  than  an  inferior  son-in-law,  or  a  wife's  brother 
{airmam  hi  hhuridavattara  vam  vijamatur  uta  va  gha  syalat).  Taska 
(Nir.  vi.  9)  explains  the  word  vijamatri  of  a  person  who  is  not  complete 
in  all  necessary  requisites  {asusamaptdj  jamdtuh)  ;  and  adds  that  the 
people  of  the  south  always  speak  of  this  word  as  denoting  a  man  who 
has  purchased  his  wife  (joijdmata  iti  ^aivad  dakshinajdh  Tcrltapatim 
achakshate  \  asusamaptah  iva  varo  'hhipretah). 

Allusions  to  conjugal  infidelity  and  sexual  immorality  are  not 
wanting.  In  x.  34,  4,  reference  seems  to  be  made  to  the  gambler's 
wife  .being  the  object  of  other  men's  intrigues  {anye  jayam  pari  mrisanti 
asya  yasya  agridhad  vedane  vaj'i  akshal},  \  see  above,  p.  426).  In 
X.  40,  6,  mention  is  made  of  a  woman  resorting  to  her  rendezvous 
{niMritafh  na  yosliana)  comp.  x.  34,  5  (nisMritam  jarini  iva)  *''  which, 
if  a  married  woman  is  meant,  implies  an  adulterous  connection.  In 
ii.  29,  1,  Mitra  and  Varuna  are  prayed  to  remove  the  worshipper's 
sin,  as  a  woman  who  bears  a  child  secretly  puts  it  away  {are  mat 
Jcarta  rahasHir  ivagah).^    In  i.  167,  4,  we  find  the  words  ^ara  sulhrah 

'*'  These  words  (nishleritam  na  yoshmjS)  prove  either  conjugal  infidelity,  if  yoahana 
or  jarini  mean  a  married  woman,  or  if  they  refer  to  an  unmarried  female,  it  would 
shew  that  young  lovers  made  assignations,  and  therefore  that  women  had  more 
liherty,  and  were  not  confined  as  in  later  times.  In  i.  167,  3,  occur  the  words  guha 
eharcmti  manmho  na  yosha  \  "  Like  a  man's  wife  moving  or  acting  secretly." 
Sayana,  however,  refers  them  only  to  the  privacy  of  the  female  apartments.  See 
Wilson  in  loco. 

c3»  See  Professor  "Wilson's  translation  and  note  in  loco,  and  Introduction  to  vol.  ii. 
p.  xvii. 


DEESS,  ORNAMENTS,  ETC.  461 

ayaso  ywoya  sadharanyeva  Ma/ruto  mimihshuh  \  -which  Professor  "Wilson, 
following  Sayana,  renders  "  The  radiant,  ever-moving,  Maruts  have 
mingled  with  (their)  associate  (lightning),  like  (youths)  with  common 
women."  The  words  are  quoted  by  Professor  M.  Miiller,  translation 
of  E.V.  i.  176,  but  without  any  explanation  on  the  point  under  con- 
sideration. 

In  ix.  67,  10  ff.  the  poet  prays,  and  twice  repeats  the  prayer,  that 
Pushan  would  protect  him  in  all  his  goings,  and  provide  him  with  a 
supply  of  damsels  {emits,  no  ajasvah  Pushd  yamani  yamani  a  hhahshat 
kanyasu  nah  |  11.  ay  am  somah  hapardine  ghritam  na  pavate  madhu  \  a 
Ihakshat  kanyasu  nah  \  12.  ayam  te  aghrine  suio  ghritarh  na  pavate 
kuchi  I  a  Ihakshat  kanyasu  nah).  The  general  opinion  of  the  poet's 
contemporaries  in  regard  to  the  female  sex  appears  to  be  intimated  in 
the  following  words  put  into  the  mouth  of  Indra,  viii.  33,  17.  Ind/rai 
chid  gha  tad  airavlt  striyah  asasyam  manah  \  uto  aha  hratum  raghwm  \ 
"  Indra  declared  that  the  mind  of  a  woman  was  ungovernable  and  her 
temper  fickle." 

In  Valakhilya  8,  3,  mention  is  made  of  a  gift  of  one  hundred  slaves 
{satam  dasan  ati  srajah).  In  K.V.  viii.  46,  32,  Professor  Roth  con- 
jectures {s.v.  ddsa)  that  the  correct  reading  is  satam  ddsan  \  "I 
received  a  hundred  slaves."  (See  my  article  on  the  priests  in  the 
Vedic  age,  Jour.  E.A.S.  for  1866,  p.  275).  Compare  the  word  ddsa- 
prama/rga  in  EV.  i.  92,  8,  quoted  above  in  p.  184,  and  translated 
in  p.  186. 

As  regards  the  morals  of  the  people,  in  other  respects  than  those 
which  relate  to  the  relations  of  the  sexes,  it  may  be  mentioned  that 
untruth  is  condemned  in  a  verse  already  quoted,  iv.  5,  5,  and  the 
gods  are  said  (1.  152,  1 ;  vii.  49,  3  ;  vii.  84,  2)  to  punish  lying.  Fre- 
quent mention  is  made  of  the  friendship  borne  by  the  gods  to  their 
votaries,  which  seems  to  imply  the  existence  of  a  similar  special  re- 
lation of  affection  between  some  of  their  worshippers.  See  also  hymn 
X.  71,  translated  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  p.  256.  In  x.  117 
(as  I  have  already  noticed,  p.  457)  beneficence  to  the  poor  is  commended. 

(7)  Dress,  ornaments,  etc. 

Eeferences  are  made  in  various  places  to  well-dressed  females, 
iv.  3,  2 ;  X.  71,  4  {jdyeva  patye  usatl  suvdsdh) ;  x.  107,  9,  or  to  elegant, 


462  DRESS,  ORNAMENTS,  ETC. 

well-made  garments,  v.  29,  15  {yastreva  hhadra  sukrita).  Prom  these 
passages  and  others  relating  to  jewels,  as  in  viii.  46,  33,  quoted  above, 
p.  455,  we  may  gather  that  considerable  attention  was  already  paid 
to  personal  decoration.  "We  derive  from  them  no  information  regarding 
the  shape  or  materials  of  the  clothing  worn,  further  than  may  be  learnt 
from  the  mention  of  sheep  and  of  wool  in  certain  texts  (as  i.  126,  7  ; 
vi.  15,  16;  X.  75,  8).  But  it  is  difficult  to  conceive  that  cotton 
(which,  as  I  learn  from  Professor  J.  H.  Balfour,  is  supposed  to  have  been 
indigenous  in  India),  though  not  mentioned  in  the  hymns,  should  have 
been  unknown  when  they  were  composed,  or  not  employed  for  weaving 
the  light  cloth  which  is  necessary  in  so  warm  a  climate.  The  form  of 
the  garments  was  probably  much  the  same  as  among  the  modern 
Hindus,  unless  it  be  that  some  innovations  may  have  been  introduced 
by  the  Mohammedans.  A  turban  or  head-dress  {ushnisJia)^^  is  men- 
tioned in  the  A.V.  xv.  2,  1. 

Two  of  the  Vedic  deities,  Eudra  and  Pushan,  are  said  to  wear  their 
hair  wound  or  braided  spirally  upwards  into  the  form  of  a  shell,  as 
the  word  "kapardin"  in  E.V.  i.  1 14,  1,  5  ;  vi.  55,  2  ;  and  ix.  67,  11,  is 
explained  in  the  dictionary  of  Professors  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth ;  and  in 
vii.  83,  8,  the  same  epithet  is  applied  to  the  Tritsus  (the  tribe  to 
which  Vasishtha  belonged)  {hityancho  yatra  namasa  Icapardmah  trit- 
smah).^^'^  In  x.  114,  3,  a  young  female,  handsome  and  brilliant  (it 
does  not  clearly  appear  who  she  is,  as  the  passage  is  obscure  and 
enigmatical)  is  said  to  wear  four  of  these  braids  {ehatushkaparda 
ywoatih  supeidh  ghritapratlha  vayundni  vaste).  And  in  vii.  33,  1,  the 
priests  of  the  family  of  Vasishtha  are  said  to  have  their  hair-knots  on 
the  right  of  their  heads  and  to  be  robed  in  white  [hityancho  md 
dakshinatas-haparddh  ityddi;  comp.  vii.  83,  8  already  quoted)."''  In 
various  passages  already  cited  (pp.  149  f.)  the  Maruts  are  said  to 
wear  different  sorts  of  ornaments,  which  were  probably  similar  to  what 
were  worn  by  the  poet's  countrymen  or  countrywomen. 

631  In  regard  to  the  word  sipra  see  above,  p.  149. 

«32  See  the  rude  picture  of  the  god  S'iva  at  the  beginning  of  the  Bombay  edition  of 
the  Linga  Parana.     But  "Wilson  s.v.  haparda,  explains  it  merely  as  "  braided  hair." 
833  See  Eoth  Zur  Litt.  u.  Geschichte  des  Weda,  p.  120. 


FOOD  AND  DRINK.  463 


(8)  Food  and  drink. 


In  the  Eig-veda  (see  i.  23,  15 ;  i.  66,  3  ;  i.  117,  21,  etc.)  frequent 
mention  is  made  of  yava,  which  in  later  Sanskrit  means  barley ;  hut 
according  to  the  Lexicon  of  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v.  appears 
to  have,  in  early  times,  denoted  corn  in  general.  Eice  {vriM)  according 
to  the  same  authority  is  not  referred  to  in  the  Eig-veda,  but  is  named 
in  the  Artharva-veda,  as  well  as  barley,  and  masha  (beans)  and  tila 
(sesamum  orientale);  see  vi.  140,  2  {vrihim  attam  ywoam  attam  atho  ma- 
sham  atJio  tilam).  Parched  com  idhana)  is  mentioned  in  several  places 
of  the  E.V.,  as  i.  16,  2  ;  iii.  35,  3  ;  iii.  52,  5  ;  vi.  29,  4,  as  an  offering  to 
the  gods ;  and  in  iii.  35,  7,  is  said  to  be  provided  as  food  for  Indra's 
horses.  Cakes  {apupa)  and  meal  mixed  with  curds  or  butter  (Jcaram- 
hha)  are  said  to  be  offered  to  the  gods,  iii.  52,  7;  vi.  57,  2.  Fruit 
{phala)  is  mentioned  in  iii.  45,  4  (see  above,  p.  107) ;  i.  146,  5. 
Plants  (oshadM,  virudh)  are  frequently  alluded  to,  and  are  even  invoked 
vi.  49,  14 ;  vii.  34,  23 ;  vii.  35,  6 ;  x.  97,  1  ff.,  where  some  of  them 
are  spoken  of  as  produced  three  ages  before  the  gods;  Terse  1  \j/dA 
oshadhih  punah  jdtah  develhyas  triyugam  pura']  ;  and  are  said  in  verse 
4  to  be  divine  [(ZejJi^]  ;  in  verses  3  and  15  to  be  some  of  them  flowering 
and  productive  and  fruit-bearing,  and  others  not  \_pushpavatih  prasu- 
varih  I  yah  phalinlr  yah  aphalah  apushpah  yas  hha  pushpinlK],  and  in 
verses  11  and  12  to  drive  away  disease.  Medicaments  (J>heshcya)  are  also 
frequently  referred  to.  The  cutting  up  of  flesh,  apparently  for  sacri- 
ficial purposes,  is  mentioned  in  one  place,  i.  161,  10  {mamsam  elcah 
pi'ffiiati  sunayd  "bhritam).  In  i.  164,  43  reference  is  made  to  the 
cooking  of  a  bull  as  being  a  primeval  institution'  {ulcshanam  priinim 
apachanta  nrds  tdni  dharmdni  prathamdni  dsan  \  oomp.  x.  27,  2 ;  x. 
28,  3).^"  In  V.  29,  7 ;  viii.  12,  8 ;  viii,  66,  10,  mention  is  made  of 
the  gods  cooking  or  eating  large  numbers  of  buffaloes  (see  above, 
p.  90).  From  the  fact  of  these  animals  being  offered  in  sacrifice,  it 
■  may  perhaps  be  inferred  that  they  also  formed  a  portion  of  human 
food.     Intoxicating  liquors  are  mentioned  in  the  hymns.     As  regards 


6"  See  the  "general  note"  appended  to  Sir  W.  Jones's  translation  of  Mann  ;  and 
Mann  xi.  69,  where  gotadha  is  mentioned  as  an  upapatalca,  or  minor  sin.  See  also 
verse  108. 


464  PEOFESSIONS  AND  TEADES. 

the  Boma-juice,  see  above,  p.  89,  note  169.  "Wine,  swa,  (though  it  does 
not  appear  from  what  material  it  was  distiUed)'''  was  also  in  use,  as 
appears  from  several  passages  already  quoted,  viz.  i.  116,  7  (p.  246) 
and  vii.  86,  6  (p.  66) ;  and  x.  107,  9  (p.  434).  It  is  also  mentioned 
m  viii.  2,  12,  hritsu  pUaso  yudhyante  durmaddso  na  swayam  \  "  When 
drunk  they  (the  soma-draughts)  contend  in  thy  stomach,  as  men  mad- 
dened with  wine."  SwUlers  of  wine,  surahah,  are  mentioned  in 
viii.  21,  14,  as  we  have  seen  above  (p.  112,  note  201).  In  i.  191,  10, 
we  find  the  following  words :  Surye  visham  a  salami  dritim  surSvato 
grihe  \  "  1  place  the  poison  in  the  sijn,  like  a  [wine]skin  in  the  house 
of  a  keeper  of  wine."  See  also  Vaj.  Sanh.  xix.  5,  7 ;  S'atap.  Br.  xii. 
7,  3,  8,  and  12;  xii.  8,  1,  16;  commentary  on  Vaj.  S.  xix.  44;  and 
A.V.  xiv.  1,  35  f.  (translated  in  Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  v.  197).  In 
regard  to  the  light  in  which  wine  drinking  was  regarded  in  later  times 
the  reader  may  consult  Manu,  xi.  54,  90,  93-97,  148  f.,  249. 

(9)  Professions  and  trades. 

In  E.V.  ix.  112,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  424),  the  variety  in 
men's  tastes  and  pursuits  is  described,  and  some  of  their  different  occu- 
pations are  mentioned,  viz.,  those  of  carpenter,  physician,  priest,  black- 
smith (compare  x.  72,  2),  poet,  and  female  grinder  of  corn.  That  man 
is  said  to  be  a  skilled  physician,  and  both  a  slayer  of  Eakshases  and  a 
repeller  of  diseases,  by  whom  all  plants  are  collected,  like  kings  in  an 
assembly,  x.  97,  6  {yatraushadhih  samagmata  rajanah  samitav  iva  | 
viprah  sa  uchyate  Ihishag  rakshoha  'mwa-chatanah).  The  construction 
of  chariots  is  often  alluded  to,  and  the  skill  shown  in  the  composition 
of  hymns  is  described  as  a  fabrication,  and  compared  to  the  art  of  the 
carriage-builder,  i.  61,  4;  i.  62,  13;  i.  130,  6;  i.  171,  2;  ii.  19,  8; 
ii.  35,  2  ;  iv.  16,  20;  v.  2,  11 ;  v.  29,  15;  v.  73,  10;  vi.  32,  1;  x. 
39,  14,  etc,  (see  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  233,  235  f ,  241).  The 
Eibhus  are,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  226),  celebrated  for  their 
ability  as  workers  in  wood  and  metal,  which  further  indicates  the  ■ 
existence  and  appreciation  of  such  skill  at  the  period  in  question. 
Skill  in  the  manufacture  of  weapons  of  war  and  other  sharp-edged 

635  In  Manu  xi.  94,  it  is  said  to  be  of  three  kinds,  gaudi,  paishtJ,  madhvt,  distilled 
from  molasses,  meal,  or  the  flowers  of  the  madiu  plant. 


PEOFESSIONS  AND  TEADES.  465 

implements  must  have  been  common,  as  spears  (vdSl),  swords  or  knives 
(asi),  axes  {paraiu,  svadJiiti),  are  constantly  mentioned,  i.  162,20; 
X.  79,  6  ;   X.  86,  18  ;    ix.  96,  6  ;   i.  127,  3  ;    vii.  104,  21 ;   x.  28,  8  ; 
X.  53,  9 ;  vi.  3,  5  ;  vi.  47,  10;  viii.  91,  19.     "Weaving,  it  is  scarcely 
necessary  to   say,   was  universally  practised,  as  we  learn  from   the 
references  already  quoted  to  cloth,  and  from  the  metaphorical  use  of 
the  verb  ve,  "  to  weave,"  for  the  composition  of  hymns,  etc.     Thus  in 
i.  61,  8  :  {devapatmr  Indraya  arham  ahihatye  uvuh  \  "  The  wives  of  the 
gods  wove  a  hymn  to  Indra  on  his  slaughter  of  Ahi),"  vii.  33,  9  and  12 
(see  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  247) ;  x.  130,  1  (ibid.  p.  277  f.). 
The  warp  and  woof  {tantu  and  otu)  are  both  mentioned  in  vi.  9,  1  and 
2:  naham  tantufn,  na  vifandmi  otum  ityadd  |  "I  know  not  the  warp 
and  I  know  not  the  woof,"  etc.     (These  two  verses  are  translated  by 
Professor  Benfey  in  the  Glossary  to  his  Sama-veda,  p.  76 ;  see  also 
A.V.  xiv.  2,  51).     The  art  of  boat-  or  ship-building  was  well  known, 
as  appears  from  the  frequent  mention  made  of  boats  or  ships  {nau  or 
plava),  i.  116,  3;  i.  182,  5  f.;  i.  131,  2;  ii.  39,  4;  viii.  42,  3;  viii. 
72,  3  ;  ix.  70,  10,  propelled  by  oars,  x.  101,  2  {navam  aritrapa/ranim). 
Ships  are  even  spoken  of  as  going  to  sea  (see  above,  p.  244  f.,  and 
i.  25,  7,  navah  samud/riyalj, ;  vii.  88,  3  f.).     The  A^vins  are  said  to 
have   conveyed  Bhujyu  in  a  ship  with  a  hundred  oars  {iatarit^afh 
navam).     Eope-making  also  must  have  been  practised,  as  ropes  are 
mentioned,  i.  162,  8,  or  their  absence  referred  to,  ii.  13,  9;  vii.  84,  2. 
Working  in  leather  must  also  have  been  common,  as  hides  {cTiarmwn, 
i.  85,  5 ;  vi.  8,  3  ;  vii.  63,  1),  and  skins  for  holding  water  or  wine  {driti) 
are  constantly  referred  to,  i.  191,  10  ;  iv.  45,  1,  3  ;  v.  83,  7  ;  vi.  48, 
18;    vii.  89,  2;    vii.   103,  2;    viii.   5,   19.     Agriculture,  as  we  have 
abeady  seen  (p.  427),  is  recommended  to  the  gambler  in  x.  34,  13, 
and  in  the  hymn  to  Aranyani,  x.  146,  6  (above,  p.  423),  the  goddess 
is  said  to  be  untiUed  by  husbandmen  {akrishlvala).     E.V.  iv.  57,  is  a 
hymn  in  which  the  Kshetrasya  pati,  or  deity  who  is  the  protector  of 
the  soil  or  of  husbandry,  is  addressed,  and  a  blessing  is  invoked  on 
field  operations,  and  their  instruments,  and  on  the  cultivators  {hlnasa). 
Compare  x.   117,   7.     Urvwra,  cultivated  and  fertile  land,  is  men- 
tioned in  various  places.   "Watercourses  {kulya),  which  may  or  may  not 
have  been  artificial,  are  alluded  to  in  iii.  45,  3,  and  x.  43,  7  {sama- 
ksharan  somasah  Inchram  kulyah  iva  hradam),  as  leading  to  ponds  or 

30 


466  CRIME. 

lakes  ;  and  waters  which  are  exprfessly  referred  to  as  flowing  in 
channels  which  had  been  dug  up  for  them,  are  mentioned  in  vii.  49,  2 
{yah  apo  divyah  uta  va  sravanti  Manitrimdh  uta  vd  yah  svayafnjah) ; 
and  from  this  it  is  not  unreasonable  to  infer  that  the  irrigation  of  lands- 
under  cultivation  may  have  been  practised.  In  the  Eig-veda  we  have, 
as  Professor  Miiller  observes  (Transl.  i.  223  f.),  clear  allusions  to 
shaving,  x.  142,  4,  where  Agni  is  said  to  shave  the  earth,  as  a 
barber  does  a  beard  (see  above,  p.  212).  In  viii.  4,  16,  as  interpreted 
by  Professor  Eoth,  the  worshippers  pray  that  the  god  would  sharpen 
them  like  the  edge  of  scissors  {sarh  nah  Uiihi  Ihuryor  iva  Icihv/ram). 
On  the  prevalence  of  debt,  see  Professor  Wilson's  observations  in  the 
Introduction  to  his  translation  of  the  Rig-veda,  vol.  ii.  p.'  xvii.,  and 
compare  R.Y.  x.  34,  10,  quoted  above,  in  p.  427. 

(10)  Amusements. 

Gaming  was  a  frequent  amusement  of  the  early  Indians,  as  we  learn 
from  the  hymn  x.  34,  which  has  been  given  at  length  above,  p.  426, 
(comp.  vii.  86,  6) ;  and  from  the  frequent  illustrations  derived  from 
the  practice ;  see  i.  92,  10 ;  ii.  12,  4 ;  ii.  29,  5  ;  iv.  20,  3 ;  v.  85,  8 ; 
viii.  45,  38 ;  x.  42,  9  ;  x.  43,  5. 

Dancers,  or  actors  {nritu),  seem  to  have  afforded  entertainment  at 
the  same  period  ;  as  we  may  gather  from  i.  92,  4,  where  TJshas  is  said 
to  display  herself  like  a  professional  person  of  this  sort,  who  decks  him- 
self with  ornaments  (see  above,  p.  185).  In  x.  18,  3,*'°  allusion  is  made 
to  the  living  going  forth  to  dance  and  to  laugh  after  a  funeral  {prancho 
agama  nritaye  hasaya).  Drums  {dunduhhi)  are  mentioned  in  E.V.  i. 
28,  5 ;  vi.  47,  29,  31 ;  and  a  hymn  in  the  A.V.  v.  20,  is  addressed 
to  this  musical  instrument.  According  to  Professor  Eoth  (see  s.v.  and 
Illustrations  of  Mrukta,  p.  92)  the  word  lakura,  which  occurs  in 
i.  117,  21  (and  is  explained  by  Sayana  as  a  thunderbolt)  probably 
means  a  martial  wind  instrument. 

(11)   Crime. 

Thieves  or  robbers  {tdyu,  taskara,  stena,  paripanihin,  mwshivan, 
huraiohit)  are  mentioned  in  some  passages  as  infesting  the  highways,  or 

«36  See  Professor  Eoth's  translation  of  the  verse  in  Z.  D.  M.  G.  viii.  468,  and 
Professor  Miiller's  in  the  same  Journal  ix.  p.  xvi. 


ANIMALS,  TAME  OR  VILD,  MEN^TIONED  IN  THE  HYMNS.     467. 

stealing  secretly  (see  above,  p.  174  f. ;  i.  50,  2  :  wpa  tye  taymo  yatha- 
mkshatra  yanti  aktuhhik  \  "  The  stars  depart  before  the  sun's  rays, 
like  thieves,"  i.  65,  1 ;  i.  191,  5  {ete  u  tye  praty  adrisroM  pradosham 
taskarah  iva  \  "  They  have  been  seen  in  the  evening  like  thieves") ;  ii. 
28,  10 ;  iv.  38,  5  (uta  sma  enam  vastramatlmn  na  tdyum  anu  hroianti 
hshitayo  Ihareshu  \  "Men  cry  after  him  in  battles  as  after  a  thief 
stealing  clothes");  v.  15,  5j  v.  52,  12;  vi.  12,  5;  vii.  55,  3;  vii. 
86,  5 :  viii.  29,  6 ;  x.  4,  6. 

(12)  Animals,  tame  or  wild,  mentioned  in  the  hymns. 

The  mention  of  kine  and  horses'"  (both  in  prayers  to  the  gods  to 
bestow  them  in  abundance,  and  in  the  details  of  gifts  conferred  upon 
poets  or  priests)  is  too  frequent  to  require  further  specification.  Sheep 
{avi,  miha,  wra,  mesha)  are  also  frequently  referred  to,  i.  43,  6  ;  i.  51,  1 ; 
i.  52,  1  ;  i.  116,  16 ;  viii.  2,  2  ;  viii.  34,  3 ;  ix.  6,  1 ;  x.  95,  3  ;  and 
goats  {aja,  chhaga)  in  i,  162,  3  f. ;  and  x.  90,  10.  Allusion  is  made  in 
X.  27, 17  to  the  cooking  of  a  fat  ram  {pwanam  mesham  apaehanta  vzrah). 
In  Valakhilya  viii.  3,  reference  is  made  to  the  gift  of  a  hundred  ewes 
{katam  urndvatindm).  In  i.  126,  7  the  ewes  of  the  Gandharis  are 
spoken  of  as  famous  for  their  wool  (romaid  Gandhdrindm  iva  oviM). 
Dogs  are  often  alluded  to.  In  ii.  39,  4  the  two  Asvins  are  compared 
to  two  dogs  {ivana  iva).  The  mythological  dogs  of  Tama  have  been 
already  referred  to  (in  p.  294).  A  long-tongued  dog  which  brought 
no  good  is  mentioned  as  an  object  of  dread  to  be  driven  away,  ix. 
101,  1  and  13  {apa  hdnam  inathdshtana  sahhdyo  dirghcy'ihvyam  \  apa 
kvanam  arddhdsam  hata  mahham  na  BhrigmaV).  Apes,  ka/pi,  (x. 
86,  5),  boars,  vwrdha  (viii.  66,  10 ;  x.  28,  4),  buffaloes,  mahisha  (see 
above,  p.  90  and  463),  deer,  mriga  (i.  38,  5 ;  i.  105,  8),  risya  (viii. 
4,  10),  jackals  and  foxes,  kroshtri,  lopdia,  x.  28,  4,  and  wolves, 
salavrika  (x.  95,  15),  lions,  simha  (x.  28,  4;  iv.  16,  14),  wolves,  vriha, 
vriki,  i.  116, 16;  viii.  55,  8,  as  devouring  sheep,  viii.  34,  3  {wdm  na 
dhunute  vrikah),  and  deer,  ,i.  105,  8  {vriko  na  trishnaj'am  mrigam). 
Elephants  also  are  possibly  mentioned  under  the  designation  of  mriga 
varana  viii.    33,  8 ;   x.  40,  4   (vdrana  being  an   elephant  in  later 

""  In  viii.  2,  2  allusion  is  made  to  be  a  horse  being  washed  in  a  river  {aho  na 
nikto  nadishu). 


468     ANIMALS,  TAME  OE  "WILD,  MENTIONED  IN  THE  HYMNS. 

Sanskrit)  ;  certainly  under  that  of  mriga  hastin  (the  wild  animal  with 
the  hand  or  trunk)  i.  64,  7 ;  iv.  16,  14.  These  texts  are  as  follows: 
mrigah  wa  hastinah  khadatha  vana  \  "Ye  (Maruts),  like  elephants, 
devour  the  woods  ;*'*  iv.  16,  14:  mriffo  na  hastl  tavishim  ushdnah 
simho  na  bhtma^  ayudhani  bibhrat  "  [Indra]  consuming  Jorce  like  an 
elephant  :  like  a  terrible  lion,  carrying  weapons ;  viii.  33,  8  (=  S.V. 
ii.  1047) ;  dana  mrigo  na  varanah  purutrd  charatha'lh  dadhe  \  which  is 
thus  rendered  by  Professor  Eoth,  s.v.  dana,  2,  "  After  feasting  he  runs 
hither  and  thither  like  a  beast  of  prey.""''  x.  40,  4 :  yuvam  mrigeva 
varand  mriganya/oo  doshd  vastor  havishd  ni  hvaydmahe  \  "We  inyoke 
you  twain  [Asvins]  night  and  day,  as  hunters  [seek  to  catch]  two 
wild  animals."  °*''  In  the  first  three  of  these  passages  the  elephant 
(if  meant  in  the  third)  is  referred  to  merely  as  a  terrible  wild  beast ; 
in  the  fourth  there  is  an  allusion  to  the  hunting  of  wild  animals, 
and  if  elephants  are  intended,  we  may  perhaps  infer  that,  at  the 
period  when  that  verse  was  composed,  they  had  begun  to  be  tamed. 
There  seems  no  reason  to  doubt  that  in  A.V.  ix.  3,  17,  a  female 
elephant  is  meant  by  hastini  :  "  Thou,  hall  (or  house),  standest 
on  the  earth  with  feet  like  a  female  elephant  "  (mitd  prithivydm 
tishthasi  hastmiva  padvatl).  The  author  of  this  verse  appears  to 
have  been  accustomed  to  look  familiarly  at  the  animal  close  at 
hand.  In  the  following  verse  from  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  viii. 
23  (quoted  by  Professor  Eoth  s.v.)  elephants  are  said  by  him  and 
Professor  Haug  (transl.  p.  26)  to  be  understood  by  Sayana  as  in- 
tended by  the  word  mriga :  hiranyayena  parivritdn  krishndn  iukla- 
dato  mrigdn  \  Mashndre  Bharato  'daddt  iataih  badvdni  sapta  cha  \ 
"Bharata  bestowed  in  Mashnara  one  hundred  and  seven  great  herds 
of  black,  white-toothed  wild  animals,  decked  with  gold."  In  many 
passages,  i.  138,  2;  viii.  5,  37;  viii.  6,  48;  viii.  46,  22  and  31,  we 
find  the  word  ushtra,  which,  in  later  Sanskrit,  denotes  a  camel;  but 
according  to  Professor  Eoth  (see  s.v.)  it  means  in  the  hymns  a  buffalo 
or  a  humped  bull.  Professor  Aufrecht  also  informs  me  that  in  his 
opinion  it  signifies  the  latter.     In  one  of  the  passages  (viii.  6,  48) 

638  See  Professor  Mliller's  trans,  of  E.V.  i.  pp.  99  f. 

639  Profesor  Benfey,  Samaveda,  Transl.  p.  288,  renders  the  half  Terse  thus  :  "  Like 
drops  from  a  rutting  elephant,  falls  in  many  places  his  moisture  of  blessing." 

640  Sayana  makes  varana—aardulau,  "  tigers."   Compare  mi.  55,  8,  where  mrana 
seems  to  be  an  epithet  oivrika,  "wolf." 


■WAR,  ARMIES,  ARMOUR,  AND  "WEAPONS.  469 

the  oxen  are  said  to  form  a  team  of  four  yoked  together  {mhtran 
chatmytifak).  Various  birds  are  mentioned,  peacocks,  ma^ura  (i.  191, 
14;  iii.  45, 1;  viii.  1,  25):  pigeons,  hcypota^^  (i.  30,4;  x.  165,  Iff.)  falcons, 
iyena,  -vultures,  gridhra  (ii.  39,  1 ),  ducks,  chahravdka  (ii.  39,  3),  ati 
(x.  95,  9),  swans,  Jiamsa  (i.  163,  10  ;  vii.  59,  7),  quails,  vartika 
(i.  112,  8).  Serpents  are  of  course  frequently  mentioned,  and  in  one 
place,  ix.  86,  44,  reference  is  made  to  their  casting  their  slough  {ahir 
najurnam  ati  sarpaii  tvaoham). 

(13)  Wwr,  armies,,  armour,  and  weapons. 

Wars,  as  we  have  already  seen  (see  above,  p.  109  f.,  454),  are  frequently 
mentioned  in  the  Eig-=veda.  Some  verses  have  also  been  quoted,  in 
p.  110,  from  R.V.  x.  103,  a  hymn  in  praise  of  Indra's  prowess,  at  the 
close  of  which  he  and  other  deities  are  supplicated  to  confound  the 
enemies  of  his  worshippers,  and  cause  the  arms  of  the  latter  to  triumph. 
R.V.  vi.  75,  is  another  remarkable  composition  of  a  warlike  character 
in  praise  of  armour,  of  the  bow,  etc.  The  following  are  a  few  of  the 
verses,  which  are  spirited  : — 

1.  Jlmutasyeva  bhavati  pratlhaih  yad  varmi  ydti  samaddm  upasthe  j 
anaviddhayd  tanvd  j'aya  tvam  sa  tvd  varmano  mahimd  pipartu  \  2. 
Dhanvand  gdh  dhanvand  "jim  jayema  dhanvand  tlvrdh  samado  jayema  \ 
dhanuh  satror  apakdmam  krinotu  dhanvand  sarvdh  pradiso  jayema  ( 
3.  Vakshyantwed  a  ganiganti  harnam  priyam  sahhdyam  parishasvajdnd  \ 
yosheva  iinkte  vitata  'dhi  dhamoan  jyd  iyam  samane  pdr-ayantl  |  ....  6. 
Rathe  tishthan  nayati  vdjinah  puro  yatra  yatra  kdmayate  susharathih  \ 
abhisundm  mahimdnam  pandyata  manah  pasohdd  airm  yachhanti  rasma- 
yah  I  7.  Tivrdn  ghoshdn  krinvate  vrishapdnayafy  aivdh  rathehhih  saha 
vajayantah  \  avakramantah  prapadair  amitrdn  kshinanti  satrUn  anapavya- 
yantah  | 

•'1.  There  appears  like  the  lustre  of  a  cloud  when  the  mailed 
warrior  stalks  into  the  heart  of  the  combat.  Conquer  with  an  un- 
scathed body;  let  the  might  of  thine  armour  protect  thee.  2.  "With 
the  bow  may  we  conquer  cattle ;  with  the  bow  may  we  conquer  in  the 
struggle  for  the  mastery ;  with  the  bow  may  we  conquer  in  the  sharp 
conflicts ;  the  bow  frustrates  the  desire  of  our  enemy ;  with  the  bow 

Ml  Professor  Roth  suggests  s.v.  that  kapota  may  not  always  mean  a  pigeon,  as  the 
hird  it  denotes  is  sometimes  connected  Trith  the  owl  (nluka)  and  is  regarded  as  un- 
lucky.   In  X.  165,  1,  it  is  called  the  messenger  of  Nirriti  or  Evil. 


470  WAR,  ARMIES,  ARMOUR,  AND  "WEAPONS. 

may  we  conquer  all  the  regions  around.  3.  The  bowstring  approaches 
close  to  the  bowman's  ear,  as  if  to  speak  to  and  embrace  a  dear  friend ; 
strung  upon  the  bow,  it  twangs  like  the  scream  of  a  woman,  and  carries 
the  warrior  safely  through  the  battle  ....  6.  Standing  on  the  chariot 
the  skilful  charioteer  directs  the  horses  whithersoever  he  wills;  laud 
the  power  of  the  reins,  which  from  behind  control  the  impulse  [of  the 
horses].  7.  The  strong-hoofed  steeds,  rushing  on  with  the  chariots, 
utter  shrill  neighings ;  trampling  the  foe  with  their  hoofs,  they  crush 
them,  never  receding." 

The  following  is  a  free  metrical  rendering  of  the  preceding  verses  : 

1 .  "When,  cased  in  mail,  the  warrior  proud 

Stalks  on  defiant  to  the  front. 

To  bear  the  raging  battle's  brunt, 
"We  seem  to  see  a  flashing  cloud. 
Bold  warrior,  may  thine  armour  bright 
Preserve  thee  scatheless  in  the  fight ! 

2.  May  I  the  foeman's  malice  foil 

With  this  my  all-subduing  bow ! 

May  I,  triumphant,  lay  him  low, 
And  all  his  goods  and  cattle  spoil ! 
This  bow  our  foes  with  ruin  whelms, 
And  conquers  all  surrounding  realms. 

3.  The  bowstring  to  the  bowman's  ear 

Approaches  close,  as  if  to  speak :       ' 
Its  twang  is  like  a  woman's  shriek  : 
It  guards  the  warrior's  soul  from  fear. 

6.  See,  yonder  on  the  chariot  stands 

The  dauntless  charioteer,  whose  skill 

His  horses  onward  drives,  whose  will 
Their  movements  to  and  fro  commands. 
The  reins  (their  wondrous  power  extol !) 
Although  behind,  the  steeds  control. 

7.  The  impetuous  coursers  shrilly  neigh, 

As  forward  to  the  fight  they  rush  : 
Their  trampling  hoofs  our  foemen  crush ; 
They  never  shun  the  murderous  fray. 


"WAR,  ARMIES,  ARMOUR,  AND  "WEAPONS.  471 

In  three  hymns  of  the  8th  Man^ala,  89,  40,  and  41,  each  verse 
(except  the  last  of' hymn  40)  ends  with  the  words  nahhaniam  anyake 
same  \  "  may  all  aliens  or  enemies  perish  ; "  and  one  verse,  viii. 
40,  7,  contains  a  prayer  for  victory  over  hostile  combatants,  and 
for  their  destruction  {asmdlcehhw  nrihhir  vayafn  sdaahyama  pritanyato 
mnuydma  vanushyatah).  Hymn  x.  1 33  contains  prayers  to  Indra  for 
victory  and  protection,  and  each  of  the  first  six  verses  concludes  with 
the  same  terms  nahhantdm  anydkeshaih  jyakah  adhi  dharwasu  |  "  May 
the  bowstrings  of  our  enemies  be  snapped  upon  their  bows." 

"War  chariots  are  mentioned,  as  we  have  just  seen,  in  vi.  75,  6  f. ;  and 
also  in  x.  103, 10  (see  above,  p.  110).  I  am  not  aware  that  any  means 
exist  of  ascertaining  the  form  of  their  construction.  They  seem  to 
have  been  drawn  by  two  horses,  and  were  probably  formed  so  as  to  carry 
two  persons,  a  charioteer  and  a  combatant ;  at  least,  this  may  be  con- 
jectured both  from  the  nature  of  the  case,  the  practice  of  other  countries, 
and  from  the  fact  of  two  or  more  deities  being  described  as  occupying  the 
same  car,  in  the  cases  of  Indra  and  Vayu  (above,  p.  144),  of  Agni  and 
the  other  gods  (p.  202),  and  of  Surya  and  the  Asvins  (p.  236).  The 
different  parts  and  appurtenances  of  the  Asvins'  chariot  are  alluded  to 
above  (p.  240  f.,  and  note),  and  had  no  doubt  their  counterparts  in 
those  of  their  worshippers  (see  also  above  the  account  of  Mitra  and 
Varuna's  chariot,  in  p.  42).  The  charioteer  was,  no  doubt,  like  the 
Maruts  (p.  151),  furnished  with  a  whip.  Foot  soldiers  are  men- 
tioned in  A.V.  vii.  62,  1,  where  Agni  is  said  to  conquer  the  most 
powerful  opponents,  as  a  combatant  on  a  chariot  overcomes  men 
fighting  on  foot  {ayam  Agnih  satpatir  vriddha-vrishno  ratJiwa  pattin 
aj'ayat  puroMtah).  Banners  are  alluded  to  as  borne  in  battle,  E.V. 
X.  103,  11  (see  above,  p.  110),  and  in  vii.  83,  2  (yatra  narah  sama- 
yante  kritadhvajah  \  "where  men  bearing  ensigns  meet  in  battle, 
etc").  Senani,  "the  leader  of  an  army,"  is  metaphorically  applied 
to  one  of  the  host  of  dice,  x.  34,  12  {yo  vah  senanir  mahato  ganasya). 
As  regards  the  size  of  the  armies,  the  Yedic  poets  are  familiar  with 
large  numbers,  at  least  as  regards  the  hosts  of  the  Dasyus,  whether  we 
are  to  take  these  as  aboriginal  tribes  or  mythological  foes  in  the  clouds. 
In  i.  53,  9,  60,000 ;  in  iv.  16,  13,  50,000 ;  and  in  iv.  30,  21,  30,000, 
are  mentioned  as  destroyed  by  Indra.  The  battle  of  Sudas  with  the 
ten  kings  has  been  already  referred  to  (above,  p.  454).     Defensive 


472  POETET  AND  SPECULATION. 

armour  or  mail  (_varman),  is  mentioned  in  vi.  75,  1,  already  quoted, 
and  is  referred  to  in  numerous  other  passages,  as  vi.  75,  18  {marmdni 
te  varmana  chhddayami  \  "  I  protect  thy  vital  parts  with  armour  "), 
and  19 ;  vi.  27,  6.  Varuna  and  Savitri  are  each  of  them  mentioned  as 
being  clad  in  golden  or  yellow  mail  (as  the  word  drapi  is  interpreted 
by  Sayana;  Miiller,  in  Ancient  Sansk.  Lit.,  536 ;  and  Benfey,  in  E.V. 
i.  25,  13 ;  "*  while  Eoth,  «.».,  explains  it,  perhaps  with  more  proba- 
bility, as  meaning  "robe"),  i.  25,  13  {bilhrad  drdpim  hiranym/adi 
Varuno  vaste  nirnijam) ;  iv.  53,  2  (pi^angaM  drapim  pratimunchate 
Tcavih).  Various  kinds  of  warlike  weapons  have  already  been  mentioned 
above  in  subsection  (9),  p.  464  f.  See  also  the  accounts  of  the  weai)ons 
assigned  to  Indra  in  p.  86  f.,  and  of  the  arms  and  armour  of  tho 
Maruts  in  p.  149  f.  and  notes. 

(14)  Poetry  and  speculation. 

The  elaborate  character  of  the  metres  in  which  the  hymns  are  com- 
posed has  been  adverted  to  by  Professor  "Wilson,  in  the  Introduction  to 
the  2nd  Vol.  of  his  translation  of  the  Kig-veda.  As  regards  the  occa- 
sional beauty  and  variety  of  the  illustrative  imagery  employed,  and  the 
moral  depth  of  many  of  the  reflections,  I  may  refer  to  the  hymns  to 
Ushas  translated  above  in  section  xiii.  The  hymn  on  the  variety  of 
human  pursuits,  ix.  112,  that  on  gambling,  x.  34,  and  the  one  on 
beneficence,  x.  117  (all  translated"  in  the  preceding  section,  pp.  424  fi'.), 
may  be  cited  as  instances  of  close  and  acute  observation  of  human  Hfe. 
The  speculations  on  creation  in  x.  129  (above,  p.  356)  and  in  x.  82  and 
83  (p.  354),  indicate  the  beginnings  of  philosophical  reflection.  As 
an  instance  of  picturesque  expression  I  may  quote  the  epithet  vrihha- 
Tcesa,  as  applied  to  mountains,  in  v.  41,  11  :  apdh  oshadMr  uta  no  mantu 
dyaur  vand  girayo  vrikshaTceiah  \  "  May  the  Waters,  the  Plants,  the 
Sky,  the  Woods,  the  Mountains  with  their  tresses  of  trees,  preserve  us.'' 

In  E.V.  X.  70,  10,  quoted  in  the  Ist  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  254,  and 
in  A.V.  vii.  12,  quoted  above,  in  p.  438,  allusion  is  made  to  social 
meetings,  which  appear  to  have  been  of  a  literary  or  learned  character. 

'"  In  R.V.  i.  116,  10,  however,  Benfey  renders  it  by  robe,  or  garment,  as  he  does 
also  in  S.V.  ii.  368=E.V.  ix.  100,  9  (trans,  of  S.V.  p.  256).  In  his  glossary  t.v. 
drapi,  he  translates  it  by  coat  of  mail,  -where  it  occurs  in  E.V.  ix.  86,  14. 


CONCLirSION.  473 

(15)  Conclusion. 

Although  the  hymns  of  the  Eig-veda  exhibit  a  simpler,  a  less 
advanced,  a  less  definitely  fixed  and  developed,  stage  of  religious  belief 
and  conceptions  than  vre  meet  with  in  the  works  of  the  earliest  Greek 
poets,  and  a  system  of  ideas  widely  diverse  both  from  the  mythological 
forms,  and  the  theosophic  opinions,  of  the  later  Indian  pantheon,  and  of 
subsequent  speculation,  and  although  some  of  the  customs  and  practices 
of  that  early  age  were  different  from  those  which  prevailed  in  later 
times,  it  would  be  a  mistake  to  suppose  that,  in  the  former  period,  the 
condition  of  society  was  of  a  very  primitive  description.  On  the 
contrary,  the  preceding  inquiry  has  brought  into  view  many  signs  of  a 
considerable  progress  in  civilization,  and  in  even  a  certain  sort  of  re- 
finement, as  then  existing.  (Compare  the  remarks  of  Professor  "Wilson, 
in  the  Introduction  to  the  second  volume  of  his  Translation  of  the  Eig- 
veda,  p.  xvii.) 


474 


APPENDIX. 


Page  15,  line  7. 

See  A.V.  iv.  11,  6  (quoted  in  p.  361,  at  the  foot),  where  the  gods  are 
said  to  have  "  ascended  to  heaven,  leaving  their  hodies  behind." 

Page  15,  line  11. 

In  the  two  following  passages  the  poets  seem  to  claim  affinity  with 
the  gods. 

viii.  27,  10:  asti  hi  vajf  sajdtyam  riisdaso  devaso  asti  apyam,  \  14. 
Devaso  hi  sma  manave  samanyavo  mive  sakafh  saratayah  \ 

viii.  72,  7  :  adhi  nah  Ind/ra  esharh  Tishno  sajdtyanam  \  ita  Maruto 
AivinS,  I  8.  Pra  Ihratritvam  -suddna/vo  adha  dvitd  samdnyd  \  mdtur 
garlhe  hhm-dmahe  \ 

Page  18,  line  11. 

Compare  the  Taitt.  Sanh.,  Asht.  6,  p.  18  of  MS.  1702  of  India 
Office  Library :  Devasurdh  samyattah  dsan  \  te  devdh  mitho  vipriydh 
dsan  I  te  anyonyasmai  jyaishthydya  tishthamdndh  panchadha  vyalcramann 
Agnir  Vasubhih  Soma  Eudrair  Indro  MwrudVhi/r  Varunah  Aiityair 
Prihaspatir  ViSvairdevaih  |  te  amanyanta  "  asurebhyo  vai  idam  hhrdtri- 
vyebhyo  radhydmo  yan  mitho  vipriydh  smah  \  yah  nah  imdh  priyds 
tanuvas  tdh  samavadydma  ha  etdlhyah  sa  nirrichhdd  yah  nah  prathamo 
'nyonyasmai  druhydd "  iti  \  tasmdd  yah  satdnunaptnndm  prathamo 
druhyati  sa  drttim  drchhati  |  yat  tdnunaptram  samavadyati  hhrdtrivyd- 
bhibhutyai  bhavaty  dtmand  pard  'sya  bhrdtrivyo  bhavati  ityddi  \ 

"  The  gods  and  Asuras  contended  together.  The  gods  were  hostile 
to  one  another.  Striving  with  one  another  for  the  superiority,  they 
parted  into  five  divisions,  Agni  with  the  Yasus,  Soma  with  the  Eudras, 


APPENDIX.  475 

Indra  -with  the  Maruts,  Varuna  with  the  Adityas,  and  Brihaspati  with 
the  Vi^vedevas.  They  then  reflected :  '  We  are  subject  to  our  enemies, 
the  Asuras,  because  we  are  hostile  to  one  another.  Let  us  unite  our 
dear  bodies ;  and  whoever  shall  first  show  enmity  to  another,  let  him 
be  separated  from  his  body.'  Hence,  any  one  among  persons  who  have 
bound  themselves  together  by  an  oath,  who  first  commits  an  injury 
falls  into  calamity.  When  a  man  joins  in  the  oath  tanunaptra  for 
the  purpose  of  overcoming  his  enemies,  he  conquers,  and  his  adversary 
is  overcome." 

The  same  story  is  told  in  other  words  in  the  Aitareya  Brahmana, 
and  I  quote  the  words  to  show  how  these  narratives  are  varied  in  the 
different  Brahmanas : 

Ait.  Br.  1,  24  :  Te  devdh  ahibhayvr  "  asmaham  vipremdmm  anu 
idam  asurah  alhmishyanti"  Hi  \  te  vyuthramya  amantrayanta  \  Agnih 
Vasuhhir  udakrdmad  Indro  Rudrair  Varunah  Adityair  Brihaspatir 
Visvair  devaih  \  te  tatha  vyuthramya  amantrayanta  \  te  'brwvan  "hanta 
yah  eva  nah  imah  priyatamas  tanvas  tdh  asya  Varmasya  rdj'no  grihe 
sannidadhdmaJmi  \  tabhir  evanah  m  na  sangachhdtai  yo  nah  etad  atikrd- 
mdd  yah  alulo  hhavishdd"  iti  \  "tathd"  iti  |  Te  Varmasya  rdjno 
grihe  tanuh  sannyadadhata  \  te  yad  Varunasya  rdjno  grihe  tanuh  samnya- 
dadhata  tat  tanunaptram  abhavat  \  tat  tanunaptraaya  tanunaptratvam  \ 
tasmdd  ahwr  "  na  satdnunaptrine  drogdhavyam  "  iti  \  tasmad  u  Asurdh 
na  anvdhhavanti  \ 

I  quote  Professor  Haug's  translation  of  this  passage  ;  "  The  Devas 
were  afraid,  surmising  the  Asuras  might  become  aware  of  their  beiug 
disunited,  and  seize  their  reign.  They  marched  out  in  several  divisions 
and  deliberated.  Agni  marched  out  with  the  Yasus  and  deliberated. 
Indra  did  so  with  the  Eudras ;  Varuna  with  the  Adityas  ;  and  Brihas- 
pati with  the  Viive  Devas.  Thus  aU,  having  severally  marched  out, 
deliberated.  They  said,  '  Well,  let  us  put  these  our  dearest  bodies  in 
the  house  of  Varuna  the  king  (i.e.  water) ;  he  among  us  who  should, 
out  of  greediness,  transgress  this  (oath,  not  to  do  anything  which 
might  injure  the  sacrifice),  he  shall  no  more  be  joined  with  them.' 
They  put  their  bodies  in  the  house  of  Varuna.  This  putting  of  their 
bodies  in  the  house  of  Varuna  the  king,  became  their  Tdnunaptram, 
(joining  of  bodies).  Thence  they  say  :  none  of  those  joined  together 
by  the  Tdnunaptram  ceremony  is  to  be  injured.     Thence  the  Asuras 


476  APPENDIX. 

could  not  conquer  their  (the  gods')  empire  (for  they  had  all  been  made 
inviolable  by  this  ceremony)." 

Page  65,  Une  13. 
Seiu  must  mean  "bonds,"  not  "barriers."     See  the  quotation  next 
following  in  the  text,  viz.,  vii.  84,  2  ;  and  compare  R.V.  ix.  73,  4,  and 
X.  67,  4 ;  and  the  word  setra,  rendered  "  a  ligament,  a  fetter,"  in 
"Wilson's  Sanskrit  Dictionary. 

Page  103,  line  10. 
Compare  R.V.  i.  61,  2;  i.  157,  6;  viii.  1,  31 ;  viii.  2,  37;  x.  147, 
1,  where  faith  or  heart-felt  worship  to  Indra  or  the  A^vins  is  ex- 
pressed, or  enjoined. 

Page  105,  line  11. 
So  in  R.V.  viii.  59,  7,  it  is  said  :  na  slm  adevah  dpad  ishaHi  dtrghayo 
martyah  \  "  o  long-lived  god,  the  godless  man  obtains  no  food." 

Page  108,  line  8. 
Indra  is  himself  declared  to  be  a  priest  and  a  tishi,  viii.  16,  7  (Indro 
hrahma  Indrah  rishih). 

Page  118,  Une  19. 
See  also  Professor  Max  MuUer's  Lectures  on  the  Science  of  Lan- 
guage, ii.  427. 

Page  178,  line  6. 
ITaramhhad.  See  Weber's  Indische  Studien,  ii.  306,  and  the  Tait- 
tiriya  Sanhita,  ii.  6,  8,  4  f.  :  Tat  Pushne  pargaharan  |  tat  Pusha 
praiya  data  'rumt  |  tasmdt  Pusha  prapishta-hhagah  \  adantalco  hi  \ 
"  They  gave  it  to  Pushan ;  and  he,  in  eating  it,  pushed  out  his  teeth. 
Hence,  Pushan  has  ground  meal  for  his  share  in  the  oblation ;  for  he 
is  toothless."  See  the  later  story  about  how  Pushan  lost  his  teeth,  in 
the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  168,  322. 

Page  217,  line  10  from  the  foot. 

I  have  to  thank  Professor  Miiller  for  sending  me  a  copy  of  Sayana's 
note  on  the  verse,  R.V.  x.  16,  4.     It  is  as  follows  : — 

Ajafyjanana-rahitah  iarirendriy&di-lhaga-vyatiriktah  anta/ra-prnwiha' 
lakshano  yo  hhSgas  te  Agne  te  tvadiyena  tapasd  twpanena  tarn  taj/rikam 
hhagam  tapasva  tapanam  kwu  \  Tathd  te  tava  sochih  iokahetur  jvald- 
vihshah  tarn  hhagam  tapatu  samkarotu  \  tapaht-ioohir-archii^Sabdandtfi 


APPENDIX.  477 

santdnaya  taratamyena  hhedah  \  He  jatcmedah  te  tava  yds  tanvo  murta- 
yalf  iivdh  sulcha-hetmah  tanu-tdpa-praddli  tdbhir  eva  tanuhJiih  pretafh 
aukritdm  iohhana-harma-hdrinam  lokaih  sthdnarTi  vaha  prdpaya  \ 

Of  this  I  will  translate  only  so  much,  as  refers  to  the  important 
phrase  ajo  IMgah  \  "  'Aja '  is  the  portion  characterized  as  the  inner 
man,  devoid  of  hirth,  and  of  hodily  senses  and  other  parts." 

Professor  Aufrecht  has  favoured  me  with  a  statement  of  some  further 
grounds  in  support  of  his  opinion  as  quoted  in  my  note  to  p.  217.  He 
urges  (1)  that  the  goat  is  sacrificed  to  Agni  {dgneyam  (yam,  S'atap.  Br. 
vi.  2,  1.  5,  and  Tandya  Br.  i.  8,  4,  agnaye  'jam);  (2)  that  it  would  be 
absurd  to  ask  Agni  to  burn  or  warm  the  unborn  part,  that  is,  to  do  a 
material  act  to  a  thing  beyond  the  reach  of  material  influence ;  (3)  that 
in  the  Eig-veda  IJidga  is  never  used  for  part  {pars),  but  only  for  share 
{sors) ;  (4)  that  tap  means  only  to  bum,  to  consume  by  heat,  not  to 
warm  ;  (5)  that  vdtam  atmd  gachhatu  \  "let  the  soul  go  to  the  wind," 
had  preceded  in  verse  3 ;  so  that  there  was  no  further  occasion  to  refer 
to  the  man's  immaterial  part. 

In  regard  to  what  is  urged  by  Professor  Aufrecht  under  his  fifth 
head,  I  refer  to  what  I  have  said  on  the  sense  of  dtman  in  p.  313. 

Page  220,  line  3  ;  and  267,  line  16. 

On  the  sense  of  vritra  and  vriirakan  see  Professor  Spiegel's  remarks 
in  Kuhn's  Beitrage  zur  Vergleichenden  Sprachforschung,  vi.  388  f. 

Page  228,  line  12  from  the  bottom. 
In  reference  to  this  myth  Professor  Aufrecht  refers  me  to  Dr.  Kuhn's 
Zeitschrift,  i.  442,  and  to  Professor  Eoth's  explanation  of  it,  ibid.  p.  444. 

Page  264,  line  14. 

Compare  Aitareya  Brahmana,  iv.  7  ff.,  referred  to  above,  p.  241, 
note  372.     The  story  begins  as  follows : — 

Prajdpatir  vai  Somdya  rdjne  duhitaram  prdyaohhat  Suryam  Sdvi- 
trim  I  tasyai  sarve  devdh  vardh  dgaehhan  \  "  Prajapati  gave  his  daughter 
Surya  Savitrl  in  marriage  to  king  Soma.  All  the  gods  came  as  the 
bridegroom's  friends." 

Page  269,  line  14. 

In  ix.  92,  5,  it  is  said  that  Soma  protected  the  (Aryan)  man  and 
repelled  the.Dasyu  {Somah prdvad  manum  dasyave  har  alhikam). 


478  APPENDIX. 

Page  288,  line  4. 

The  Taitt.  San.  vi.  1,  4,  3,  has  the  following  story  about  Tama : — 
Devas  eha  vai  Yamai  cha  asmin  loJce  'spardhanta  \  sa  Yamo  devandm 
indriyam,  vlryam  ayuvata  \  tad  Yamasya  4.  Yamatvam  \  te  dev&h 
amanyanta  "Yamo  vai  idam  ahhud  yad  vayam  smah"  iti  \  te  Praja- 
patim  upadhavan  |  sa  etau  Priy'apatir  dtmanah  uhsha-vasau  niramimita  \ 
te  devah  YoMknavmrumm  vasam  dldbhanta  Aindram  ukshdnam  \  tain 
Va/rwnmama  grahayitvd  Vishnund  Ycynena  prdnudanta  \  Aindrenaiva 
asya  indriyam  a/orinjata  \ 

"The  gods  and  Tama  contended  in  this  world.  Tama  took  away 
the  vigour  and  energy  of  the  gods.  This  is  his  characteristic.  The 
gods  reflected,  '  Tama  has  become  the  same  as  we  are.'  They  hastened 
to  Prajapati,  who  formed  from  himself  this  bull  and  this  cow.  The 
gods  sacrificed  the  cow  to  Vishnu  and  Yaruna,  and  the  buU  to 
Indra,"  etc. 

Page  345,  Une  7. 

In  E.V.  X.  30,  10,  the  "Waters  are  called  the  mothers  and  the 
mistresses  of  the  world  {riahe  janitrlr  hhuvanasya  painir  apo  vandasva). 

Page  361,  line  3. 

In  E..V.  X.  190,  right  (or  the  ceremonial),  and  truth,  night,  the 
ocean,  etc.,  are  said  to  have  sprung  from  tapas :  Ritam  cha  satyam  cha 
abhlddhdt  tapaso  'dhi  ajdyata  \  tato  rdtrl  ajdyata  tatah  samudro  arna/oah  \ 
2.  Samudrdd  arnavdd  adhi  samvatsaro  ajdyata  \  ahordtrdni  vidadhat 
viivasya  mishato  vast  |  3.  Suryd-ehandramasau  Dhdtd  yathdpurvam 
ahalpayat  \  dvoam  cha  prithivim  cha  antarihham  atho  svah  \ 

"  Eight  and  truth  sprang  from  fervid  tapas;  and  thence  sprang  the 
night  and  the  liquid  ocean.  2.  From  the  liquid  ocean  sprang  the  year ; 
and  it,  the  lord  of  all  things  that  see,  made  the  day  and  night.  Dhatri 
(or  the  Disposer)  made  the  sun  and  moon  as  before ;  and  the  sky,  the 
earth,  the  air,  and  the  heaven." 

Page  453,  line  &  from  the  foot. 

See  also  Professor  H.  H.  "Wilson's  Preface  to  his  translation  of  the 
Vishnu  Purana,  vol.  i.  pp.  iii.  f.  (Dr.  Hall's  edit.). 


479 


INDEX 


A 

Achilles,  305 
Achyuta,  343 
Aditi,  13,  35  ff.,  156,  163, 

224,  228,  365,  360,  369 
Adityas,  11,  38  f.,  48  ff., 

54  ff.,  70 
Aeschylus,  quoted  25,  44, 

157,  364 
Agastya,  153 
Agha,  110 

Agnayi,  82,  337,  345 
Agni,  8,  13  f.,  35,  51,  63, 

65,  199  ff.,  269,  281  ff., 

297  ff.,  403,  et  passim 
Agni  Daivodasa,  219 
Agni  Garhapatya,  300 
Agnihotra,  315 
Agni  Savitra,  299,  402 
Agnishrattas  296 
AM,  93,  95,  97 
Ahirbudhnya,  336 
Ahura,  mazda,  70,  72, 120 

Aitareya  Aranyaka — 
p.    73    —  23 

—  84    —359 
i.  13,2,3—49 

Aitareya  Brahmana — 
i.     14—268 

—  16—208 

—  24—476 
ii.   17—322 

—  18—  11 

—  25—144 
ill.  20—  93 

—  30—227 

—  44^321 
iv.     1—  86 

—  7-9—241,  477 

—  27—  23 
■n.  11—  88 

Tiii.  23—468 


Aja  Ekapad,  336,  396 

A^anadeva,  18 

Aja  panchaudana  offering, 

304,  306 
Ajobhagah,    217,    297  f., 

313,  476  f. 
Amhika,  1 

Amia,  13,  54ff.,  419 
Amshaspand,  70,  120 
Anaxagoras,  28 
Andra,  121 
Angiras,   200,   209,  274, 

277,  395,  409 
Angirases,    23,   66,    226, 

251  f.,  292  f.,  311 
Anumati,  398 
Anuyaja,  11 
Apamnapat,  354 
Apas  (the  Waters),  343 
Aphrodite,  3,  25 
Apnavana,  213 
Apsarases,  44,  308,  345, 

409,  430 
Apva,  110 
Apya  yosha,  290 
Aramati,  337 
ArauyanI,  346,  422  f. 
Arhuda,  97 
Ares,  3,  260 
Aristotle's  Politics,  i,  2, 

7,  quoted  5 
Aqikiya,  344 
Aryamau,   13,  47,  54  ff., 

SB,  60,  62,  68,  125, 163 
Aryas,  113  f.,  220 
Asikni,  344 
Asuuiti,  297 
Asuras,  18,  44,  65,  82,  97, 

101, 147,  204,  230,  268, 

401,  405 
A^Talay  anas'  Grihy  asutras, 

quoted,  217,' 401 
As'Talayana^  S'rauta  -  Su- 
tras, quoted  231 


As'vins,  93  f.,  113,  125, 

146,  164,  192,  234  ff. 
As'vina  libation,  253 
A^vini,  345 

Atharvan,  209,  395,  409 
Atharvans,  293,  311 
Atharva-Teda — 

i. 

7,   2—210 
30,   3—  10 

33,  1—205 
ii. 

5,   3—  49 
30,   2—243 

iii. 

3,   3—  74 

10,  12—  79 

21,   4^403 

26,  1  ff.— 407 

29,  3—309 

—  7—403 

30,  1  ff.— 439 

iv. 

10,  6—159 

11,  Iff.— 399 

—  7—361 
16,  12—  74 
16,  —  63 
20,   2—306 

23,  6—  14 

27,  3-160 

34,  2ff.— 307 

37,  llf.— 309 

38,  1  ff.— 431 

39,  2—208 

24,  4—  74 

—  9-168,  298 

25,  3—243 
30,   —440 

—  6—294 

—  11—312 


480 


INDEX. 


Atharva-veda  continued — 
vi. 

21,      1—305 

28,      3—291 

36,      3—403 

41,      3—296 

78,      3—225 

81,      3-224 

92,  I— 225 
118,  1—430 
120,      1—299 

—  2—  41 

—  3—306 

122,  4—293 

123,  2,  4r-293 
140,      2—463 

vii. 
6,  2—  36 
12,  —438 
20,  6—398 
60,  If.— 429 
63,        —442 

—  7—374 
62,  1—471 
83,      1—  74 

109, 1  ff.- 429 
115,        —348 

viii. 

1,  —443 

2,  —446 

_   1  £—309,  312 

—  3—298 
_     11—294 

—  24—312 
6,      3—405 

8,  5  ff.— 87,  405 
_     15—296 
9,l,7ff.-370 

—  21—  49 
10,  Iff.— 370 

ix. 

2,        —402 
_       5—370 

3,  17—468 
6,  1,  3—303 
—7,  10-304 
—22  ff.— 306 
—27  f.  —306 
10,    24—370 

2,      ""-374 

7,  -378 
_32ff.— 401 

8,  -385 
_       1—401 


Atharra-Teda  continued— 
—7, 13—368,  390 
_     43—309,  377 
9,    12—  10 

xi. 
1,   1-224 

—  36—293 

—  37—304 

3,  62—391 

4,  —393 
4,  12—391 
6,- 


6, 
7, 


6—362 

19—  15 

7—396 

—396 

1—309 

3—360 

—22,27—13 

8,   1—237 

—30  ff.— 387 


1,  10- 
—  20- 

2,  46- 

3,  17- 

4,  36- 


30 
207 
300 
■305 
■312 


xm. 
1 

—  3- 

—  7- 

—  45- 

2,  - 

—  39ff.- 

3,  13- 

—  23—396 

4,  Iff.— 353 


396 
147 
16 
■158 
■161 
■396 
■219,363 


XIT. 

2,31f.- 


309 


XVI. 

9,     2—174 

xvii. 
1,    19—359 

xviji. 

1,  13  f.— 290 

2,  20  ff.— 293 

— 24ff.,  37— 294 

—  28—296 

—  32—302 

—  36—298 

—  48—304 

—  49—295 

—  53—174 


Atharra-Teda  continued — 

3,  13—291 
_  14—311 
_  59—297 

—  62—301 

—  71—300 

4,  3—302 

—  6—398 
_   7—292 

—  9  f.— 300 
_  62—311 

—  64—298 

xix. 
6,  4—368 
9,   7—301 

63  —407 

64  —408 
66,   1—68, 88 

Atithigva,  97 
Atman,  386 
Atmayajin,  318 
Atri  Saptavadliri,  247 
Atyamliae  Aruni,  316 
Aurora,  181 
Aurva,  213 
Ayasya,  274 

B. 

Bacclms,  258 
BahishpaTamana,  253 
Bhagavadgita,  334 
Bhaga,   13,    54  ff.,    168, 

170,  190,  419 
Bhagavata    Purana,   Tui. 

16,  1  ff.— 63 
Bharadvaja,  402 
Bharata,  468 
Bharati,  219,  339 
Bhavya,  454 
Bhrigu,  209,  213,  322 
Bhrigus,  10,  49,  225,  251, 

293,  311 
Bhujyu,  244,  248 
Bhupati,  Bhuta,  Bhutan- 
ampati,  and  Bhuvana, 
231 
Bhuvana,  372 
BrahmS,,  325  f.,  356,  376, 

378  ff.,  401 
Brahma,    16,    161,    321, 

326,  369,  384 
Brahmaoharin,  399  ff. 
Brahmaloka,  321 
Brahmanaspati,     13     30 
224  f.,  272  ff.,  365,  360 
Brahmans,  286,  299,  324 
371  '        ' 


INDEX. 


48 1 


Brahma-sutras,  16 
Brihadaranyaka     Upani- 

shad,  12,  316,  319,  323 
Brihaspati,    23,   93,    193, 

272  ff.,  292 


C. 


Chaos,  24  . 
ChaturmaBya,  315 
ChaturviiQs'atiratra,  15 
Cthandogya    Upanishad, 

323 ;  vi.  2,  1—359. 
Chitra,  454 
CMtragupta,  302 
Chyavana,  243 
Chyavana,  250 
Cyclopes,  24 


Dadhyanoh,  209 
Daksha,    13,   48,    50   ff., 

80,  355,  360,  369,  419 
DakshayanT,  80 
Danavas,  95 
Danavl,  82 
Danii,  95 
Danus,  95 
Basa,  114 
Basra,  240 

Basyus,  100,  113  f.,  220 
Bawn,  181  ff. 
Bemeter,  26  f.,  260 
Beshtri,  395 
Bevapi,  280 
BeTayajin,  318 
Bhatri,  31,  54,  159,  169 
Bhishana,  339 
Bhrava,  398 
Biodorus  Siculus  quoted, 

26 
Bionysus,  258  f. 
Biti,  13,  42,  147 
Bivodasa,   97,   219,   341, 

451 
Burga,  214,  256 
Burvasas,  324 
Byaus,  7,  U,  21  ff.,  39,  76, 

100,   118  ff.,  142,  156, 

205,  212,  267,  357 
Byaushpitar,  33,  118  f. 


E. 

Earth,  7,  11,  13,  21  ff., 
40,  76,  102.  See  Pri- 
thivl. 

Egyptian  cosmogony,  26 

Ekashtaka,  79  fr 

Elephants,  467  f. 

Eros,  406 

Euripides  quoted,  26,  28, 
90,  259,  298 


Fathers  (Pitris)  267, 286ff., 
398 


G. 

Gaia,  76 

Gandharva,  289  f. 
Gandharvas,   13,  44,  262 

ff.,  296,  308  f.,  398,  400 
Ganga,  339,  344 
Ganges,  77,  338 
Gayatri,  263 
Ghosha,  247,  458 
Gemeter,  26 
Gma,  34 
Go,  34 

Goethe  quoted,  298 
Gomatl,  344 
Gotamas,  186 
Gunas   (the    three),   309, 

377 
Gungii,  346 

H. 

Hahakkuk,  3,  8—98 
Hades,  305 

Harivam^a,  8803—438 
Heaven,  7,  11,  13,  21  ff., 

102.    See  Byaus, 
Helios,  145 
HeU,  312 

Hephaistos,  86,  199,  224 
Here,  24,  260 
Hermes,  173 
Herodotus     quoted.    111, 

209,  432 
Hesiod  quoted,  24,  76,  406 
Hiranyagarbha,   1,  31  f., 

354,  383,  390,  411 


Hiranyahasta,  247 
Homer  quoted,  157 
Homeric   hymns    quoted, 

24,  155 
Hotra,  339 


Ignis,  199 

I  la,  339 

liidra,  8,   13,   17,   30  f., 

77  ff,  192,229,266 
Indrani,  82,  337 
Isaiah,  19,  1—98 


J. 

Jemshid,  1 
Jma,  34 
Juhu,  398,  411 
Jumna,  338 
Jupiter  Pluvius,  77 


K. 

Kakshlvat,  246 

Kala,  391,  407  ff.,  411 

Kali,  243 

Kali  (one  of  the  dice),  430 

Kalpas,  326 

Kama,  347,  362,  402  ff., 

411 
Kamadyu,  244 
Kauada,  364 
Kapardm,  462 
Kapila,  364 
Ka^yapa,   52  f.,   80,  373, 

408 
Katha    Upanishad,    308, 

330 

Kathaka  quoted — 

3,  15—  82 

12,    5—392 

12,  10—232 

Kaushitaki      Upanishad, 

308,  371 
Kavya  Us'anas,  86,   201, 

210 
Kavyas,  292 
Kronos,  24 
Krumu,  344 
Kshattriyas,  252,  389 
Kshetrasyapati,  465 
Kubha,  344 
Kurukshetra,  262 
Kuyava,  95 

31 


482 


INDEX. 


Lakshmi,  348 
Linga,  384 
Lokayatikaa,  364 
Lucretius  quoted;  28  f. 


M. 

Madhukas'a,  381 
MadhuTidya,  382 
Madhyamikas,  364 
MadhyamikI  Vaeh,  340 
Maghavan,  99,  102 
Maliabharata —  • 


3135—52 

iii. 
171,  14019,  15465—11 

vi, 
3019—343 


241     —372 

1184    —  15 

3657,  3667     —308 

6811  —343 

6812  ff.— 357 
7527,  7530     —408 

8810  ff.— 326 

8106,  8125  ff.      ) 

8139  ff.,  9877  £.5  407 

10060  ) 

9449  ff.— 347 

9616     —372 

10836     —361 


nil. 
61  ff.— 409 
7102     —  11 


987  ff.— 377 
1444     _  IS 

Mahadeva,  372 
Mahi,  339 

Maitri  Upauisliad  quoted, 
393,  410 


Manes,  311 

Manu,  i.  6ff.  referred. to, 

369,  408 

i.  24—410 

Manu,    Manush,    10,    79, 

113,161,206,  209,228, 

250 
Manus,  161 
MauYantaras,  161 
Manyu,  237,  361,  406 
Marka,  230 

Markandeya  purana,  233 
Marttanda,  49 
Marudvridha,  344 
Manits,']0,  12,  79,  92  ff., 

110,  147  ff.,  215,285 
Matall,  292 
Mataris'van,  204  f.,  219, 

380,  395 
Matsyapurana,  sect.  116 — 

206 
Matthew,    St.,    quoted — 

24,  30  ;  26,  64—98 
Mehatnu,  344 
Meru,  324 
Mittra,  70  ff.,  120 
Mitra,     13,    37,    39,   47, 

61  f.,  54  f.,  58  ff.,  120, 

126,  16fi  f.,  et  passim 
Mitradates,  71 
Mitrobates,  71 
Moon,  270,  391 
Mudgala,  324 
Mujavat,  261,  426 
Mundaka  Upanishad,  389 
Maslmara  468 


N. 

NacMketas,  308,  329 

Naighantuka,  9 

Nairuktas,  17,  143 

NamucH,  93  ff.,  249 

Naudana,  324 

Naoghaithi,  121 

Narasimha  purana,  291 

Nasatya,  240 

Nasatyas,  10 

ISTavagras,  293,  311 

Nighantu,  193  f. 

Night,  i88 

Nirriti,  82 

Nirritis,  19 

Nirukta — 

ii.     3—374 
vi.     9—460 


Nirukta  contimted — 
vii.     1—     9 

—  5—8,  143,  350 

—  9—171 

—  27ff.— 207 
ix.  26—338 

X.  26-372 
xi.  23—  60 
xii.  1—234 
— lOf.— 227 

—  19—207 

—  35—  39 

—  41—  17 
Nirvana,  326 
Nishti,  13 
Nishtigri,  13,  79 
Nodhasj  186 
Nonentity,  356 

0. 

Ogni,  199 
Oromazes,  71 
Ouranos,  25,  33,  75  f. 
Ovid  quoted,  60,  167 


Panis,  220 
Parameshthin,    381,    391, 

396,  40i,  408 
Parameshthin  Prajapatya, 

80 
Paravrij,  246 
Parjanya,   23,    38  f.,   98, 

140  ff.,  174,  262,  393, 

436 
Parushni,  344 
Pas'ubandha,  315 
Pedu,  247 
Perkunas,  142 
Pipru,  96 
Pif^achas,  448 
Pitris,  44  (see  Fathers). 
Plaksha  Dayampati,  316 
Plato    quoted,   166,   298, 

406 
Plutarch  referred  to,  71 

quoted,  157 

Polyphemus,  90 
Poseidon,  31 
Pradhana,  364 
Prajapati,  11,  15,  56,  80, 

164,  233,  264,  319,  362, 

372,  376,  381,  387,  390 

ff.,  401,  408,  439 


INDEX. 


483 


Prana,  393  S. 

Eiff-veda  continued — 

Eig-veda  continued — 

Prasaha,  82 

34, 

10—164,  239 

34, 

19-105 

Pris'ni,  39,  147 

11—     9 

85, 

7—  95 

Prithivi,  7,  11,  21  ff.,  119 

35, 

1—  62 

— 

8—161,454 

Psalms  quoted,  85 

2ff.-162f. 

— 1 

9—  86 

Purana,  398 

36, 

4-216 

87, 

3—150 

Purumitra,  244 

— 

18-286 

88, 

1  f.— 161 

Pururaras,  286,  421 

— 

19—209 

89, 

6—172 

Punisha,  31,  50,  80,  143, 

38, 

5—303 

10—43,  354 

316,  367  ff. 

9—150 

91, 

1,  18—284 

Pushan,  31,  81,  84,  168, 

— 

13—282 

—2 

6,  8,  21—269 

171  ff.,  257,  269,  462 

39, 

6—160 

— 

22—267 

40, 

5  f.— 279 

92, 

—183 

42, 

-174 

93, 

Iff.— 269  f. 

43, 

2—  36 

94, 

7—211 

E. 

44, 

6—238 

10  f.— 213 

10—461 

95, 

2—109 

Eajanya,  371 
Eaka,  346 

— 

12—212 

— 

3—208 

46, 

2—  10 

100, 

1—  99 

Eakshasas,  44 

46, 

3-241 

101, 

3—125 

Eakshases,  101,  204,  270, 

48, 

—  181 

5—199 

299 

50, 

—169 

102, 

2—103 

Easa,  344 

— 

2—467 

— 

8—  81 

Eebha,  246 

— . 

12—  54 

103, 

2—  96 

Ribhus,  85,  166,  226,  284 

51, 

4,  6—  97 

— 

3—113 

Eig-Teda  quoted — 



8-113 



6—103 

62, 

7—  91 

104, 

6  f.— 103 

Mandala  i. 

8—  97 

105, 

2—457 

65, 

1—  86 

— 

7,  8—457,  467 

1,         3-216 

— 

3—  92 

. — . 

17-281 

—          4  -200 



5—103 

108, 

6—103 

3,        10—338 

68, 

4f.— 211 

109, 

2—460 

—        12—339 

6—209 

— 

4—  89 

20,          6-226 

69, 

1,5— 214  f. 

110, 

2f.— 164 

22,          1—238 

2—206 

111, 

1— 86,,226 

—           9—229 

— 

6—220 

112, 

5,  8—246 

—        11—337 

61, 

6—  86 

— 

15—243 

—        19—  94 

8—465 

— 

19—244 

23,        13—174 

— 

14—  99 

113, 

—187 

—        22-343 

62, 

11—106,467 

— 

18—193 

24,      1  f.—  45 

63, 

2—  92 

114, 

1—451 

—6,  8, 10—  62 

64, 

7—160,468 

115, 

1—167 

—          8-156 

8,  11—151 

116,  1, 

3  ff.,  23—244 

—    9,  11—  65 

66, 

4—212 

7—246 

—        16—  46 

66, 

8—212 

— 

8—247 

25,  1,  12—  65 

67, 

3—214 

— 

10—243 

—7,  9, 11—  63 

68, 

2—210 

— 

16—245 

—10,13,18—59,472 

. — 

6—214 

— 

17—236 

27,      7  f.— 216 

69, 

1—206 

— 

24—246 

—        13—  12 

70, 

1,  3—216 

117,3,6,7,9,20,24—247 

30,        16—  85 

71, 

1—457 

— 

4—246 

31,         1-200 

72, 

9—  40 

— 

9—240 

—         7—217,  284 

78, 

4-220 

— 

13—236,  243 

—        10—216 

80, 

14—  96 

— 14f.,17f.— 245 

32,  2—86,  96  f.,  224 

— 

15—  92 

— 

20—244 

—    5,  13—  96 

82, 

6,  6—81,  85 

— 

21—113 

—           9-  95 

84, 

1—  88 

118, 

4—241 

—         14—  93 

4-265 

— 

6—236 

484 


INDEX. 


Eig-veda  contimted — 

118,  6—243 

—  9—247 

119,  6—236 

—  6  f.— 246 

121,  12—  86 

122,  9—  68 

123,  2—184 

—  3—169 

—  6—190 

124,  1—165 

—  7—467  f. 
126,  6  f.— 286 
126,  1—464 

—  7-467 

130,  7—  97 

—  8—113 

131,  1—31,  92 

—  4—112 

133,  6—147 

134,  3—144 

—  4—145 
135, 1,3,4— 143  f. 
136,  3—  36 

138,  1—180 

139,  11—  10 

141,  9—126,215 

142,  10—224 

142,  12—145 

143,  6—213 
149,  3—213 

—  4-461 
151,  9—  68 
154,  6—285 
166,  4—125 

157,  1—165,  169,  239 

—  4-249 

—  6—243 

159,  If.—  21 

—  5—166 

160,  2ff.— 22,  30 

161,  1  ff.— 226 

—  10—463 

—  14—  72 

162,  22—  46 

163,  13—286 

164,  6—357 

—  43—463 

—  46—219 

—  49—342 

—  60—  17 

165,  6  ff.—  16 

—  8—92 
_  9—  99 

166,  12—  36 

167,  3—460 
_  4—460 

170,  2ff.— 154 


Riff-veda  continued — 

Eig-veda  eontinmd— 

in. 

4—154 

19, 

3—  96 

173, 

6—  99 

4—107 

176, 

6—  89 

20 

8—  92 

176, 

1—  81 

22, 

3—107 

179, 

6—286 

23, 

—274 

180, 

1— 240f. 

17—226 

18i; 

2-=241 

24,  Iff.,  8-277 

3—240 

26, 

■3—280 



4—236 

27, 

1—  54 

182, 

3—249 

3f._  66  f. 

— 

5  ff.— 245 

— 

10—  60 

183, 

2—192 



14—46,  68 

184, 

2—243 

. — 

16—  67 

185, 

1—  32 

28, 

4,  8—  62 



3—  36 

6—  65 

186, 

7—106, 468 

— 

6—  63 

188, 

9—225 

29, 

1—460 

190, 

1  f.— 279 

31, 

6—191 

191, 

6—467 

32, 

4,  6  f.— 346 

191, 

9—  64 

33, 

9—454 

10—464 

34, 

2  f.— 160 

35, 

8—364 

38, 

1—166 

Mandala  ii. 

—  2,7,9,11— 163  f. 

— 

9—125 

1, 

3  ff.— 219,282 

39, 

1  ff.— 242 

13  f.— 202 

40, 

1  ff. -31, 180 

2, 

7—283 

41, 

6—  60 

4, 

3—206 

16—341 

8, 

3—215 

— 

17—342 

9, 

1-216 

11, 

7—  84 

9f.—  96 

Mandala  iii. 

— 

11—  89 

— 

14—  91 

2, 

11—212 

— 

18—113 

3, 

3f.— 200 

— 

19—114 

10—214 

12, 

1  f.— 124 

— 

11—205 

3—206 

4, 

9—226 



5—104 

5. 

10—214 

— 

6,  14^107 

6, 

5—214 

— 

7—158, 192 

6,  9—10,  213 

— 

8f.— 109 

8, 

5—194 

— 

10—112 

9, 

9—12,215 

— 

11  f.—  97 

12, 

4,  6—220 

14, 

1—  89 

14, 

4—215 

4—  98 

20, 

4—218 

— 

6—  97 

21, 

1—210 

15, 

1—  93 

3—200 

2     88,115 

28, 

4—338 

— 

3—  96 

25, 

1—205 

— 

6—192 

6—106 

16, 

2—  83 

26, 

2—282 

3-  85 

7—210 

17, 

5—  99 

27, 

2,  7—200 

18, 

3—85,106 

29, 

1  ff.— 209 

19, 

2—  94 

30, 

5—30,  99 

INDEX. 


485 


Eig-veda  contimied— 

Eig-veda  continued — 

Eig-veda  continued — 

31, 

15—158 

6,        13—191 

29, 

16—462 

32, 

4—  92 

6,         2—211 

30, 

5—92, 100 

8—158 

8,     2,4—202,215 

31, 

2—107 

— 

9  f.—  89 

12,         4—46, 218 

4—85  f. 

— 

12  f.—  91  f 

13,         2—159 

— 

10—  91 

33, 

6—166 

14,         2—169 

32, 

1—  96 

34, 

1-  91 

16,        14—468 

34, 

2—  86 

2—  99 

17,         2—31,100 

4—111 



8—  30 

—.    4,  17—78, 105 

36, 

1—  89 

— 

9—113 

—        16—107 

37, 

1,  4—107 

35, 

4—  85 

18, 1,6, 10  ff.— 78 

41, 

11—472 

— 

6—  89 

—          3—229 

42, 

6—100 

— 

7—  88 

—          4—100 

43, 

11—340 

— 

9—  92 

—        12—  16 

12—280 

36, 

7  f.-  89 

21,         9—108 

46, 

3—  41 

38, 

4—  84 

26,         2—114 

48, 

18  f.— 172 

43, 

7—262 

—          6—262 

52, 

15—454 

44, 

2—158, 192 

28,      1  f.— 267 

63, 

4—160 

45, 

1,  4—85, 107 

30,         1—124 

54, 

1,  3—150 

46, 

2f.—  99 

—      3,  5—  18 

11—149 

47, 

1—  89 

—      8  ff.— 192 

55, 

1—151 

3—  92 

—  14,  20-97,451 



4—285 

48, 

2f.-  77 

32,       16—  90 

— 

5—160 

4—84,  229 

—    17ff.— 109 

57, 

6—150 

49, 

1—  80 

33,      5  f.— 226 

60, 

2  f.— 160 

■51, 

12—  89 

—        11—  20 

62, 

3—  68 

62, 

3-  90 

35,     3,  8—284 

6—  60 

53, 

2-106 

36,       18-450 

— 

8—42,  60 

4ff.—  81 

38,         6—467 

63, 

1—  60 

— 

5—104 

41,         4-122 

2—285 

— ■ 

8—  82 

42,         3—226 

— 

3—  68 

54, 

5—  19 

43,         6—236 



4—159 

13—151 

45,         4—241 

69, 

1,4—  68 

. — 

18—  62 

46,  1,  3f.-144 

3—  36 

— 

19  f.—  40 

48,      4  f.— 144 

73, 

1—238 

55, 

—354 

60,l,4ff.— 278 

5—236 

— 

2—286 

61,         9-184 

Ti, 

5—243 



10—215, 285 

62,         2—192 

10—238 

— 

19—226 

—          4—195 

76, 

6—241 

56, 

1—  18 

63,2—164,353,472 

10—286 

6—166 

—      3,  6—166 

76, 

3—239 

68, 

1—192 

54,         2—14, 164 

78, 

4  ff.— 247 

69, 

—  69 

—          3—164, 166 

79, 

9—195 

61, 

4,  6—191 

56,         3—  30 

81, 

2—191 

62, 

9—172 

2,  3— 162ff. 
4,  6—169  f. 

Mandala  v. 

82, 

2  ff.— 163, 166 

Mandala  iv. 

6—  47 

1,         4—201 

83, 

—140 

1, 

2,  4—219 

—        11—213 

86, 

2—162 

2, 

6—216 

2,         7—  65 

— 

6—  62 

— 

11—  43 

3.         1—219 

— 

7  f.—  65 

4, 

4—218 

4,         9-218 

5, 

10—216 
1—214 

—        10—285 
9,      3  f.— 210 

Mandala  vi. 

4—126 

13,         6—219 

2, 

4  f.— 216 

— 

6—311,  458 

26,         3-216 

5, 

5—216 

486 


INDEX. 


Rig-veda  continued— 

7,  1  f.— 206 

—  4—14 

—  7—214 

8,  3—214 

—  5—218 

9,  1  f.— 465 

—  7—215 

13,  1—218 

14,  2—200 
16,13,14,39,48—209,220 

17,  8—  92 

—  9—  96 

—  10—  86 

—  11—178 

18,  3—104, 114 

—  10—101 

19,  3—  84 

20,  2—  92,95 

21,  4—  85 

—  5,  8—104 

—  11-113 

24,  3—107 

—  7—  15 

—  8—100 

25,  3—114 

27,  4—  96 

28,  5—103 

29,  2—  82 

30,  1,  6—  30, 100 
36,  1—  92 

39,  3—193,267 

40,  2—  89 

44,  23—159,  193,  267 

—  22,  24—268 
45,  26—107 
47,  1  f.— 262 

—  3—90, 194 

—  6—268 

—  6—  89 

—  8,  11—106, 112 

—  15  ff.— 110 

—  18—  82 

—  19—227 

—  23—455 

49,  7—340 

50,  2—  51 

—  7—345 

51,  5—22, 41 

—  7—441 
62,  4—286 

—  6—339 
53  &  64  —176 
65,  —177 
66  &  67  —178 
68,  —179 

—  3—157 
59,  llf.— 13f. 


Rig-veda  continued — 

Eig-veda  continued— 

60, 

6—114 

38, 

4—47, 125 

61, 1,  2,  7 

,8,  llf.— 340 fF. 

39, 

2—  20 

63 

6  f.— 241 

40, 

1—167 

71, 

1  f.,  6—167 

6—354 

72, 

1,2—158,270 

45, 

1—162,167 

74, 

1,  3—270 

49, 

2—  72,466 

75, 

Iff.,  6 f.— 469 

3—  63 

18—472 

62, 

2—441 

66, 

13—150 

Mandala  vii. 

67, 

1—150 

' 



6—285 

1, 

14—206  , 

58, 

12—  74 

2, 

1— 211 

60, 

1—158 

3—209 

— 

2—157 

— 

6—191 

— 

3—156 

— 

9—225 

— 

4—  62, 156 

3, 

6—212 

— 

5—  57 

•    7—218 

— 

6  f.—  68 

4, 

4—200 

61, 

5—  63 

6—217 

63, 

1—158 

5, 

4^215 

— 

2— 156f. 

6—220 

64, 

2—  72 

6, 

1—214 

65, 

3—  65,  476 

2—215 

66, 

2—  51 

— 

3—220 

4—169 



5—191 

— 

11—  61 

— 

7—218 

— 

13—  68 

11, 

1—202 

67, 

2  f.— 238 

12, 

2—218 

68, 

3—242 

13, 

1—  49 

— 

7—245 

2—215 

69, 

3—236 

15, 

12—  43 

72, 

2—249 

14—218 

4—239 

16, 

3—211 

— 

5—238 

18, 

2—454 

75, 

6-191 

20, 

5—  79 

76, 

1—158 

21, 

6—  92 

4—193,  286 

7—  17, 125 

77, 

2—187 

23, 

3—  31 

3—157 

6—105 

78,  3—156,  159,  191,  205 

26, 

3—458 

80, 

1—195 

27, 

3—107 

81, 

4—195 

30, 

1—  12 

82, 

2  f.— 123,169 

31, 

5—105 

6  f.— 122 

6—109 

83, 

1—114 

32, 

18  f.— 108 

— 

2—471 

33, 

2—  89 

— 

8—462 

1—462 

— 

9—123 

34, 

2—  32 

84, 

2—65, 123 

20—225 

85, 

3—123 

— 

21  f.— 226 

86, 

3  ff.—  66 

35, 

8,  10—169 

87,  1,  2, 

3,  5—  62 

— 

12—286 

4—  63 

36, 

2—  70 

— 

7—  47,  65 

37, 

3—107 

88, 

,2—  69 

38, 

2,  4—167 

— 

4  ff.—  60,  67 

— 

3—163 

89, 

1  ff.—  67 

INDEX. 


487 


ig-veda  continued^-          \ 

Eig-veda  continued — 

Rig-veda  continued^- 

90, 

3—143 

16, 

7—476 

48, 

7—269 

91, 

5—144 

17, 

6  ff.—  89 

9—265 

6—  85 

— 

10—  87 

— 

13—267,  287 

92, 

2—144 

— 

14—  97 

50, 

2—  89 

93, 

7—  47,  218 

18, 

15—  57 

— 

9,  17—108 

94, 

7—220 

19, 

25—108 

61,2,7,12—124 

•     95, 

1  ff.— 340  f. 

32—219 

_ 

7—101 

96, 

4  ff.— 340 

— 

33—206 

64, 

7—105 

97, 

6—281 

20, 

23,  25—153 

10  f.-152 

8—  23,  280 

21, 

4—105 

65, 

13—105 

98, 

3—  79,  89 

14—112 

57, 

11—106 

99,     4  f.— 95,  159,  205   | 



18—339,  454 

58, 

7—112,  286 

100, 

4—113 

22, 

16—240 

11—  88 

101,  1,  2,  4ff.— 141f. 

23, 

1—211 

— 

16—  82 

103, 

—435 

15-217 

59, 

5—  30 

104, 

3—312 



17-210 

— 

7—476 

6—106 

24, 

27—114 

61, 

17—265 

25, 

3—  38 

62, 

2—241 

Majii^ala.  viii. 

26, 

21—144,  229 

4—238 

27, 

10—474 



11—249,268 

2, 

4—  89 

•       28, 

1—  lb 

64, 

1—213 

12—464 

4-  18 

65, 

10—  83 

— 

18—  20,88 

29, 

7—  19 

66, 

1—  81 

— 

20—460 

3o; 

2—  10 

4—  89 

4, 

9—108,  457 

3—  19 

67, 

3—156 

—  10,  12—  89 

31, 

15f—  20 

5  f.— 112 

— 

16—466 

32, 

26—  97 

— 

7—116 

5,  1  f.,  30—238 

33, 

2—  89 

— . 

10—173 

. — 

7—242 

8-468 

— 

20-301 

— 

28  f.— 240 



17—461 

68, 

1—268 

— 

38—456 

34, 

9—  85 

2—265 

6, 

1—  98 

3—467 

69,1, 

3, 4, 7—105 

5—  30 

35, 

3—  10 

70, 

3—100,107 

— 

13—  96 

13  ff.— 156 

71, 

8—271 

— 

1.5—100 

36, 

4—116 

72, 

7  1—474 

— 

18—  49 

39, 

3—210 

78, 

Z— 100 

— 

38—  31 

6—215 

— 

7—158 



40—  89 

40, 

7—471 

80, 

11,14^  96 

— 

41—102 

41, 

10—378 

81, 

6—116 

7,4 

,8,23—150 

42, 

1—  61 

80—106 

25—149 

2—  65 

— 

32—10.5 

— 

31—  92 

43, 

13—209 

82, 

5—101 

8, 

4,  23—238 

21—218 

12-  31 

9, 

12—248 

— 

23—215 

83, 

9  ff.— 152 

17—192,  238 

— 

31—217 

85, 

3—  83 

12, 

14—  47 

44, 

23—109 

4,  6,  9—100 

22—  92 

45, 

4—  81 

. — 

7,  15—  93 



30—101 

17—106 

— 

8—147 

13, 

16—  91 

— 

32ff.— Ill 

— 

20—105 

14. 

1—108 

— 

39—  85 

86, 

14—101 

5,  11—  92 

46, 

32—461 

87, 

2—353 

— 

9—100 

33—455 

6—114 



13—  98 

47, 

2,  8—  57 

— 

8—  92 

— . 

14—  97 

9—  38 

— 

11—105 

— 

15—112 

— 

13—  67 

89, 

3  f.— 104 

15, 

2—100 

48, 

1—266 

8—262 

8—  92 

— 

3—  19,  90 

— 

9—  86 

488 


INDEX. 


Eig-veda  continued — 

90,  U—  54,156 

—  12—158 

—  15—  38 

—  16—370 

91,  4  f.— 213 

—  6—168 

—  8—225 

—  -  17—206 

—  19  f.— 216 

92,  1—113,220 

—  2—219 

—  3—215 


Mandala  ix. 

1,  1  -261 

—  6—237  • 

4,  6—225 

5,  9—226 
42,  4—267 
54,  3—268 

61, 16,  22,  30—267 

66,  16  f.— 268 

—  18—269 

—  24—267 

67,  lOff.— 461 

73,  8—268, 312 

76,  2—267 

78,  4—269 

82,  3—142 

83,  3—287 
85,  2—266 

—  3—267 

—  12—263 
86,10,37,40—267 

—  29—159 

—  44—469 

87,  2—13, 267f. 

—  6—  97 

—  9—  85 

88,  3  f.— 267 

89,  6—268 
_  12—  95 

90,  3—267 

—  ,6—266 

91,  22—267 

92,  4—  11 

—  6-477 

96,  5—  13,267 
_  6—269 

97,  24—268 
_  41—267 
_  42—266 
_  68—  41 

98,  9—  31,268 
101,  1,  13—467 


-veda  continued — 

Rig-veda  continued — 

106, 

8—  14,  266 

34, 

—425 

107, 

7—267 

1—261 

108, 

3—266 

— 

4  f.— 460 

109, 

3—266 

36, 

7—168 



16—265 

36, 

2  f.—  41 

110, 

3—267 

— 

14—168  . 

112, 

—424 

37, 

1—166, 169 

113, 

2—103,361 

6—314 

— 

3—237 



12—441 

— 

7  ff.— 266,  306 

38, 

3—114 

114, 

3—  54 

39, 

3,  6—242 

6,  11—249 
8—243,  246 

Mandala  x. 



9— 246f. 

— 

11—236 

2, 

1,  4f.— 200 



12—192,  238 

7—  24,  206 

— 

13—248 

4, 

1—218 

40, 

2-459 

5. 

7—  51 

3—456 

6, 

6—218 

— 

4—468 

8, 

8  f.— 230 

__ 

6—460 

9, 

8—343 

41, 

3—  59 

10, 

—288 

42, 

2—107 

6—170, 226 

3—108 

12, 

8—  47 

— 

4,  11—105 

14, 

—291 

43, 

1—106,468 

7—  66 

4,  7—  90,  465 

15, 

—295 



5—169 

12—202 

44, 

8—101 

16, 

1  ff.— 297 

9—  87 

4—217,476 

46, 

1—207 

17, 

1  ff.— 227, 287 

4-212 

3  ff.— 164, 173 

— 

8—205 

— 

8—241 

46, 

2—209 

— 

10  ff.— 338 

9—206, 226 

18, 

3—466 

47, 

1,  7—106 

6—226 

48, 

1—105 

20, 

9—212 

3—  86,  92 

21, 

5—209 



11—124 

22, 

4  ff—  85 

49, 

2—  39, 114 

23, 

7—105 

7—  85, 156 

24, 

5—249  / 

— 

10—229 

25, 

3,  6— 268-^ 

60, 

4—  92 

7—269 

51, 

4  ff.— 202  f. 

— 

9-267 

52, 

1  f.— 203 

26, 

4f.— 180 

53, 

9—224,  281 

27, 

11  f.— 458 

— > 

10—  14 

17—467 

64, 1  ff.,  6—102 

28, 

3—  90 

— 

3—  30 

29, 

6—  30 

55, 

1—  81 

30, 

5—269 

66, 

1—207 

10-478 

58, 

1—313 

— 

12—339 

69, 

4—269 

31, 

3—  19 

60, 

10—313 

— 

7—  32 

61, 

4—239 

33, 

2—467 

62, 

3—159 

— 

8  f.—  19 

11—466 

INDEX. 


489 


Eig-veda  continued— 

63, 

2f.- 

-38  f. 

7- 

-209 

— 

10- 

-  41 

64, 

2—  19 

6- 

-  51 

65, 

5- 

-  68 

9- 

-  39 

— 

11- 

-114 

— 

12- 

-244 

— 

15- 

-  19 

66, 

10- 

-227 

67, 

6- 

-193 

68,  6  S. 

-193,279,283 

— 

11- 

-287,  311 

69, 

3- 

-209 

9- 

-216 

70, 

2,11- 

-202 

9- 

-226 

71, 

2- 

-348 

4—461 

72, 

-  48,  355 

2f.- 

-?7 

73, 

1- 

-  79 

6—193 

76, 

-343 

78, 

3- 

-150 

79, 

If.- 

-212 

4—210 

— 

5- 

-216 

80, 

3- 

-247 

81 

&  82—354 

81, 

2  1- 

-  32 

83, 

1- 

-114 

2f.- 

-361 

85, 

1- 

-168 

2ff.- 

-266,  270 

—3, 9, 14—237 

— 

4- 

-  79 

— 

19- 

-192 



26,  37- 

-173,  243 

— 

43—390 

— 

46- 

-460 

86, 

9- 

-337 



Uf.- 

-  82 

— 

19- 

-114 

87,2 

,  5, 14- 

-204 

88, 

2— 211 



4r—2U 

—6,  8,1  Of. —206 

— 

11- 

-  64, 159 

— 

16- 

-287 

89, 

2—  97 



4—102 



7- 

-  96 



8f.- 

-125 



10- 

-  31,102 

90, 

-367 

Eig-veda  contimted — 

90,  6—  SO 

—  14—  31 

91,  2—204 

—  3—201, 218 

—  4  f.— 213 

—  8  £f.— 200 
93,  6—262 
96,  18—286 

97,  1,  3  £f.— 13,  367, 463 

—  6—454, 464 

—  15,19—281,463 

—  16—303 

98,  7—280 

99,  6—  98,  230 

100,  5—281 

—  8—168 

101,  12—  IS 

102,  3—114 

—  12—102 

103,  8  ff.— 109,  281 
107,  —433 

—  1—287 

—  2—286 
109,  4—  17 

—  5—401 
110  9—  31,225 

—  11—201 

112,  1—  94 

—  2—  84 

—  3—  83 

113,  3—  92 

114,  2—  19 

—  3—462 

—  6—353 

115,  1—210 
117,  —431 

—  1—  19 

119,  —  90 

—  4—106 

120,  1—  79 

—  6—  92 

—  6—  95 

121,  9—  31 
123,  6—  60 
126,  1—226 
129,  —     6, 356 

—  1—  32 

—  6—  13 
131,  4—  92 

133,  —471 

—  2—81 

134,  1—  79 

—  6—  87 
136,  1—302 
138,,  5—193 

—  6—  92, 102 
139,  1—168, 172 


Eig-veda  continued — 

141,  3—280 

142,  4—212 
146,  —422 

149,  1,  4—  31,164 

150,  4—201 
161,  1  ff.— 346 
152,         1—105 

—  4—312 
154,  —310 
156,         4r— 168,214 
158,     1  ff.—     8, 170 
169,         4—  14 
160,         1—107 

—  3—104 

166,  4—302 

167,  1—  14,80 

168,  1  ff.— 145 
171,  4—158 
173,  —456 
181,  3—169 
184,         1—225, 390 

—  2—342, 346 

186,  1—146 

187,  4—215 
190,  —478 

—  3—  31, 169 
Eijra^va,  246 
Bikvans,  292 

Elvers,  343 
Eodasi,  148,  346 
Eohini,  264 
Eohita,  395  f. 
Eudra,  1,  125,  146  ff. 
Eudras,  11,  124,  147  ff. 


S. 

Sadhyas,  17,  56,  372 
S'akaiya,  316 
S'akapuni,  207 
S'akra,  88 
Sama-veda — 

i.    299—  38 

—  340—289 
ii.  1060—403 

—  1219—  84 
Samvartaka  fire,  161 
S'ambara,  95  f, 
S'anda,  230 
Sankarshana,  408 
Sankhya  karika  quoted,  16 
S'apharuj,  87 

Sarama,  294 

Saranyu,  227,  237,   257, 

288 
Sarasvat,  340 

32 


490 


,  INDEX. 


SarasTati,  93  t,  219,  337 

ff.,i464 
Sarayu,  339,  460 
S'aryata,  251 
S'aryati,  254 
S'atapatha  Brahmana — 


1,  1,  7—  20 
—  9,  1—  55 
6,  4, 18—  96 
9,  3, 10—319 


1,4,  9—314 

2,  1, 19—  41 

3,  3,  1—208 

4,  2,  1—  15 

—  2—52 
6,4,  8—320 

iii. 

1,  3,  3—  50 

2,  4,  1—263 

1,  5,  1—250 

—  16—234 
6,  7,  2—  11 
6,  1,  1—315 


3,  1,  4—  41 

4,  2,  52—343 
—5,  1—  95 

Tl, 

2,  2,  27—317 
6,  4,  8—320 
6,  2,  4r— 322 

vii. 
6,  2,  6—391 

ix. 

1,  4,  6—458 
6,  1,  1—  14 


1,  5,  4—315 
2,6,  7—314 
—  19—314 
3,  2, 13—319 
3,  3,  8—319 
i,  1,  9—387 
—3,  1—314 
_3,  9—315 
—4,    4—307 


S'atapatha  Brahmana 
continuee^ — 

5,  3,  1—358 
.  —4,  15—318 

6,  3,  1—317 
—6,  9—387 

xi. 

1,  6, 14—  80 
—8,  2—372 

—  6— 315 

2,  1,  1—303 
—3,  1—387 
—6,  13—318 
—7,  33—314 

3,  3,  1—387 

4,  3,  1—349 
—4,  1—321 
6,  6,    3—317 

—  9—321 

6,  2,  2—320 
—3,  11—316 
8,  3,    6—314 

xii. 
3,4,    1—377 
—5,    1—164 

7,  3,   1—  94 

8,  3,  31—315 

-xiii. 

6,  1,    1—377 

7,  1,    1—372, 387 

xiv. 

1,  2, 18—393 

2,  1,  8—  52 
—2,  2—  13 
3,2,    1—372 

6,  2, 13—319 
—9,  28—316 

7,  1,  32—308 
Savitri,   31,   43,  47,   64, 

125,  165,  162  ff.,  353 
Sautramani,  316 
S'ayu,  247 

Sindhu,  163,  339,  344, 464 
Sinivali,  53,  346 
Skamblia,  378  £f. 
Soma,   13,   31,    94,   110, 

121,  145, 180,  237,  268 

ff.,  306 
Soma-iuioe,  88  ff.,  237 
S'radcUia,  264,  346,  404 
S'ri,  349 

Strabo  quoted,  77 
Subandhu,  313 
Svtdas,  454,  471 


Sudhanvan,  284 

S'udra,  371 

Sukanya,  252,  254 

Sumitra,  209 

S'unas'^epa,  45 

Surya,  13,  64,  126,  143, 

165  ff.,  298 
Surya,  171,  178  f.,  236  f., 

257 
Susartu,  344 
S'ushna,  95  f. 
S'utudri,  339,  344 
Svadha,  292 
Svaha,  292 
Syaraj,  370 
Svarga,  286,  302 
Svayambhu,  353,  408 
S'vetas'Tatara  Upanisbad, 

409 
S'veti,  344 


Taittiriya  Brahmana- 


3,  2,  2—266 
6,  2,  6—299 
6,  4,  1—164 


2,  3,  3—  80 

—  7,  1—376 
—9, 1, 10—33,  365 

— 10,  1—80,  264 

4,  1,  6—201 

—  2,  6—299 

—  7—36,  82 

—  6,  6—307 
8,  8,  6—342 

—  6—347 

—  8—404 

—  9—389 

—  9,  6—32,  365 


1,    2,  11—242 
7,  12, 3f.— 66,441 
9,  22,    1—372 

10,  9,  11—320 

—  11,    1—299 

—  6—320 

11,  8,    1—329 

12,  2,    6—318 

■  3,  1—16,  44,  347,  361 
^    9,    7—390 


INDEX. 


491 


TaittiriyaBrahmana,  Com- 
mentary on,  quoted,  368, 
362  f.,  365 

Taittirlya  Sanhita — 

i. 

2,    3,    1—  61 

8,  16,    1—  68 


2,  3,  1—403 

3,  6,  1—11,264 
6,    1,  1—230 

—  8,  6—201 

—  6—218 
—11,  8—201 
6,    8,  4^-476 

ir. 
p.  34a     —  53 


5,  4,  1—  74 
p.  34a     —  15 

vi. 
1,    3,    6—  17 
1,    4,    3—478 

1,  6,  6—263 
4,    3,    3—  73 

—  8,      —  69 

—  9,    1—263 

—  10,    1—230 

6,  11,  2—  81 
p.  10,  —307 
p.  18,  —474 
p.  41,  —372 
p.  65a  — 225 
p.  67a    —317 

yii. 

2,  7,  2—235 
4,    2,    1—  15 

Tapas,  80,  361,  366 

Trishtama,  344 

Trita,  117,  419 

Trita  Aptya,  195,  230,  336 

Tritsus,  462 

Tugra,  244  f. 

Tura  Kavasheya,  387 

Turva^a,  286 

Tvashtra,  336 

Tvashtri,  31,  38,  86,  96, 

144,'  205,  224  ff.,  281, 

287,  290 


■Uchhishta,  13,  391,  396  ff. 
ITgrajit,  430 
Ugradeva,  286 
TJgrampas'ya,  430 
TJpathrit,  398 
TTpahavya,  397 
Urana,  96,  98 
UrraisI,  346,  421 
Ushas,  18,  157,  178,  181 

ff.,  238 
ITttanapad,  41,  360 


Vaoh,  263,  340,  342,  370, 

392,  405 
Vachaspati,  273 
Vadhrimati,  247 
Vadhryasva,  341 
Vairupas,  311 
Vai^ya,  371 
Vajas,  284 
Vaiasaneyi  Sanhita — 
1,    17—217 

7,  11—382 
10,  16—  42 
13,  43—  35 
19,  12—  94 
23, 47f.— 387 
29,      9—225 

—  60—  63 

31,  18—373 

—  19—390 

—  22—349 

32,  2—374 

—  6—391 
Vala,  279 
Valaldiilya — 

8,  3—461, 467 

9,  2—  11 
10,      2—357 

Vandana,  246 

VarcMn,  95 

Varena,  75 

Varuna,  1,  4,  13,  32  f., 
37ff.,  46f.,  64f.,  68ff., 
110,  116  ff.,  et  passim. 

Varunanl,  345 

Yarutri,  339 

Vasishtha,  70,  345 

Vasislitlias,  195,  296,  311 

Vastoshpati,  273 

Yasus,  11,  22,  124,  163 


Vata,  39,  85,  142,  145 
Vayu,  8,  39,  86,   U3ff., 

206,  229 
Yibhavasu,  263 
Yibhldaka,  426 
Yilistenga,  82 
Yimada,  105,  244 
Yiraj,  50,  369,  387,  396, 

401,  406 
Yirupa,  292 
Yishnapu,  244 
Yishnu,  1,  13,  19,  63,  79, 

96,  113,  122,  126,  169, 

etc. 
Yishnupurana,    62,    271, 

313 
Yishuvat,  397 
Yis'pala,  245 
YisVaka,  244 
Yisfvakarman,  1,  32,  362, 

354,  372,  396 
Yi^varupa,  230 
Vitasta,  344 
Yivasvat,  60,  62,  66,  144, 

205,  227,  236,  257, 266, 

288,  301 
Yrihannaradlya     Purana, 

302 
Yrishakapi  hymn,  421 
Yritra,  79,  81,  95  ff.,  119, 

220,  267 
Ynlcan,  199 

W. 

"Waters,  343 

X. 

Xenophon  referred  to,  71 


Yadu,  286 

Tama,  66,  219,  227,  266, 
284  ff.,  353,  421,  442  f. 
Tami,  228,  287  ff.,  421 
Yamuna,  339,  344 
Tatndhanas,  9,  204,  270 
Yima,  76 


Zendavesta,  71,  120,  419 
Zeus,  4,  21,  33,  45,  261 


THE    END. 


STEPHEN    AUSTIN,   PMNTEK,  HERTFORD. 


#. 


•--«s  :  ■ 


:.ai^-^p*'"v' 


m^--m 


*.i& 


''imji**w*^>' 


'^^. 


-^-: 


"^■f  " 


Tl^ 


"jm-M: 


